Tales of Innworld #4 (2025-03-29)

Tales of Innworld #5 (2025-04-12)

Tales of Innworld #6 (2025-04-20)

10.43 - RNG (Pt. 2) (2025-07-20)

Cara O’Sullivan was standing on board the deck of the ship, watching the shores of Baleros growing larger under the pale light of the green moon. She kept her eyes fixed on the continent she’d never wanted to visit.
Baleros, the continent of wars and mercenaries. If she had a top-ten list, it was just above Rhir at the bottom. But here she was. No one else understood her train of logic, and it seemed like some of them had finally had it.
Footsteps on the deck behind her. She spoke without turning her head.
“Thien. Did Greg finally talk you into bothering me?”
The [Drummer] and [Historian], one of the longest members of the band, came to rest on the railings next to her.
“Greg’s just a loudmouth shit, Cara. I can’t believe you didn’t kick him out of the band last tour.”
“Not my fault he became a [Famous Guitarist]. Really leaning on the famous part of his class. Or that he threatened to blow all our covers if we didn’t keep taking him around.”
Thien grimaced. He leaned against the railing, his dark skin glowing faintly green under the unnatural moonlight. Well, unnatural to Earthers. She was used to it by now, but he still cast a glance up at the sky and shook his head.
“I can’t believe we’re going to Baleros. Rae’s still in denial, you know. She thinks we’re just going to hit the port cities and leave.”
“I hope it’ll be that simple.”
Cara was sipping from a canteen. Something magical in the lemon-flavored drink to keep her from being seasick. She hadn’t been feeling too bad—until she’d had to perform in a ship’s cabin a few days ago. The effort and motion had made her sick to her stomach—or maybe it was getting nearer to the continent and the tides changing.
Thien leaned on the railing. He didn’t say anything to her. So she broached the silence. She hated silence; it got so uncomfortable.
“It was supposed to be the New Lands. Izril, mainly. We’d hit First Landing, then go south. Tour the big cities and then the Walled Cities. Liscor…”
“You were going to scout The Wandering Inn, right?”
Her face didn’t change, but Thien knew all her tricks. The [Popstar] and [Thespian] was a gifted actress, but she couldn’t hide everything from him. She didn’t want to, but…
“That’s a no-go after the Winter Solstice.”
“So, what? We’re back to keeping everyone in Safety until we find a nation that fits us? C’mon, Cara. You did a great job getting everyone, but Abebi can’t keep them corralled forever. They’re going to…leave.”
“They’re welcome to leave. It’s not a prison. But Wistram’s going after them, and so are Terandrian nations. I just wish we had some place that worked.”
She spat some of her drink out over the railing; a bug had found its way in. Thien shrugged, uncomfortable.
“Avel was great…”
“I know. But its [King] can’t keep a secret to save his life. Nor can he force other nations or spies to back off. We needed Samal or somewhere that was truly safe. It doesn’t matter. The plan changed, and here we are. Is the band mutinying?”
She’d taken the band with her. She shouldn’t have; she’d told Abebi to stay and mind Safety—because someone had to, because this was dangerous, and because this wasn’t something Cara should be doing.
Not her, the Singer of Terandria. She should be making money back on her continent, but…Thien just stared at her.
“It’s the 4th Princess of Calanfer, right?”
She compressed her lips, and he went on.
“Everyone knows. I was friends with Elena before she went scouting Wistram. I’ve been to Noelictus when we tour—there’s all kinds of stories about you, if you know who to ask. The Singer of Afiele…and the performer of the Synphasia both have stories about them. I think it’s a good idea.”
“But…?”
He leaned on the railing.
“But we’re not going up against the Iron Vanguard or anyone, right, Cara? We’re a band. I’ve hit [Thugs] with my drumsticks, and that’s as close as I want to get to fighting. And what about Erribathe or the nations that’re mad at her—or the [Innkeeper]? Are we getting her too?”
Cara evaded the question.
“She can take care of herself. She is taking care of herself with a Great Company, as far as I know. Besides, we don’t have a ship back just yet. I’ll arrange one once we’ve landed.”
Both Earthers were glancing at the [Captain], who was eying them from where he had taken the wheel. He was quite impressed with her reputation and had even changed course from one continent to another for her, but she had the feeling that he’d be glad to put her on shore. She couldn’t blame him; she had an antsy feeling herself.
I should not be here. But I can’t leave Seraphel. 
Not after what she’d seen. Not her friend. Cara moodily poured the rest of her canteen out over the side of the ship. It was nasty dregs, anyways.
“Should we have, y’know, brought more help, Cara?”
“Like who? It’s hard enough hiring trustworthy bodyguards who’ll leave their continent.”
They had a decent number, but they weren’t fighters and had made that very clear to her. Thien cleared his throat a few times.
“You know…Rolairenes.”
“He’s got his own thing to do. Besides, he’s a one-trick pony.”
“Pretty damn good trick. Okay, let me just say this: I’m down to get this [Princess], but I’d like answers, Cara. Serious ones.”
Thien faced her, and she turned.
“I owe you that, Thien. Rae too, and the others. How many are rioting?”
“Just Greg. I just wish you trusted us more, Cara.”
She felt bad about that, she did. The [Popstar] rubbed at her pink hair.
“It’s less of trust and more of me not having a great plan, Thien. I thought I’d gather up all the Earthers, find a home for us. Well, ‘home’ never appeared. Just Safety. I thought I’d link up with another Earther group, like the United Nations company or someone. But no one had a plan. Not at Wistram, not anywhere else. Nothing Earther-first. Then I thought that the inn would be the place. But look at it now.”
He exhaled.
“Damn. Well, that doesn’t make me feel better. There’s no group of Earthers we can join? Not one?”
She ticked off groups on her fingers.
“Wistram lost most of theirs. Erin’s inn…no go. There’s pockets, but nowhere safe and controlled by us. Rhir treats them like [Heroes], but as far as I can tell, the Blighted Kingdom has them under their thumb.”
“…So are you saying that Safety and our group is the only independent Earther force in the world?”
She felt her stomach lurch again.
“I fucking hope not, Thien. Because what do we have to show for it?”
He shoved her gently.
“You. Let’s say we get this 4th Princess—”
“Seraphel. She knows about us.”
“She does? Well, what about Calanfer?”
“Fuck the royal parents, Thien.”
“Oh. Well—let’s say we get her. Then what?”
Cara stared out across the sea, then turned around to face him. The multi-colored stars were out, and she forced a smile.
“Then I think we at least talk to Erin Solstice. And if we go back to Terandria with her or she goes to the New Lands…I won’t make the band follow her. I think, Thien, after that we tell Safety to vote. And if they think we just go to Avel or Noelictus and choose a side, we do.”
He thought about it.
“In that case, I vote to join The Wandering Inn.”
When her jaw dropped, he grinned at her.
“What? They’ve got a Hobgoblin with a guitar who shreds. Let’s go with Erin Solstice, replace Greg, and just…live there.”
She almost laughed at him, this silly Vietnamese man with too much optimism for her doom and gloom. Cara shook her head.
“Well, let me address the band and tell them a story about Seraphel and me. I owe them that. We should be at port by daybreak according to Captain Thursc. Then, I want us to make a stir like we’re just here for the attention. I’ll do some scouting undercover, and—”
And we’ll just get to Seraphel and make sure she survives. If we can get Ryoka on our side, so much the better. Erin…I’m not so sure about. 
That was the plan. It was a decent plan for the Singer who had come this far purely based on a desire to help her friend Seraphel. It was even a good plan…until she gazed over the starboard bow and saw the ship rising out of the waters.
It shed black liquid silently, and she saw the hull was a pitch-black color as well. Only the faintly-shimmering orange barrier protecting the crew from the sea had any color to it.
Silent. Thien saw Cara’s face change and swung around.
“A ship? What the?”
“Captain! A ship!”
She raised her voice and shouted. The [Captain]’s head swung around from the prow of the vessel, and she saw him jerk in alarm. So she wasn’t the only one who thought that the sudden appearance was—
“Thien, get the band. Tell them there might be tr—”
Cara was already going over the list of songs they could play in her head. They could speed the ship or protect the [Storm Sailors] from the elements. Her band wasn’t helpless. But that sensation of dread still didn’t prepare her for the first volley from the ship.
Wooden panels on the side of it glowed, and huge, magical hooks appeared and shot towards their vessel. They smashed through the hull, and Cara stumbled. The roar of sound was followed by a shout.
“Starboard! Starb—”
A thunk. She peered up, and a [Sailor] plunged head-first past her, onto the deck. Cara saw a black quarrel in his chest.
“Oh. God.”
Thien whispered. Then Cara screamed with a voice to wake the dead—
“WE’RE UNDER ATTACK! SHIP TO STARBOARD!”
She lurched to her feet and pushed him towards the cabins as shouts and screams began. The [Captain] threw the wheel around, shouting.
“They’ve raised red flags! It’s [Pirates]! To arms! Wait…”
His eyes focused on the distant ship dragging itself closer as more grappling-spells shot from their bow. And Cara had seen the same thing.
“Those aren’t fucking [Pirates]. Thien, activate the [Scrying] spells! Call for help!”
She shoved him again, and then the [Drummer] ran. But Cara knew before he came running upstairs to scream that the scrying spell wouldn’t be working. She stared at the black ship as a calm sense of dread filled her.
The ship had risen from the deeps, but it was no Drowned Folk crew on board. They wore no insignia she could see, but their spells and bows rang again and again over the waters. Killing [Storm Sailors] with each volley.
She had seen this vessel before. The Singer finally remembered where. The battle at sea. She uttered one word.
“Rhir.”
 
——
 
One of Lord Hayvon Operland’s best people was [Lieutenant of Pragmatism] Eireth Versh. She waited until they were less than three hundred feet from the ship before speaking.
“[Ship Magus], signal our alarm on all channels. The First Point is under attack by the Bloodtear Pirates. Our vessels are moving to engage, but we are out of position.”
“Sending, Lieutenant.”
More of Rhir’s ships were sailing in from the north, these ones without submersible capabilities. To an observer, it would appear like they were indeed attempting to chase off the [Pirate] ship assailing the vessel. Without scrying spells, no one would have more than a distant view from the harbors.
“Prepare for boarding. [Archers], strike the [Captain]. The Singer of Terandria and her band are to be taken alive at all costs. No other survivors.”
She re-iterated her orders for the benefit of the soldiers who stood ready to board the ship. This wasn’t their primary mission, of course; they were supposed to be transporting their package and aiding in the destruction of the Dyed Lands as well as performing reconnaissance. However, when they’d been informed of the Singer’s presence on The First Point, her orders had changed.
“The [Captain] is deflecting shots, Lieutenant.”
A crisp voice spoke in her ear, and she tapped the speaking stone.
“Understood.”
The archers fired faster, trying to target the obstinate [Storm Captain], but it appeared his Skill was capable of holding off their arrows and bolts. No matter. They were minutes from boarding, and the other ship was being pulled towards theirs. No chance of breaking away.
It wasn’t her first naval battle, but it wasn’t Eireth’s specialty. She disliked uncertainty. So she touched the speaking stone and re-tuned it to another channel.
“Ship’s hold. Status of prisoner?”
“Dreaming, Lieutenant. Still dreaming. No fluctuations in the spell latices. Should we move to deploy?”
There was a hint of eagerness in that voice she didn’t like. They wanted to see what would happen. Eireth had seen what happened.
“Keep him that way. Boarding party, [Advantaged Blow]. Prepare for ramming—!”
They were larger than the carrack by a good margin, and her ship was loaded with Rhir’s [Soldiers], who stood in ranks, ready to stride over [Light Bridges]. The [Storm Sailor] crew were being suppressed, hiding behind cover.
A perfect assault…except for the presence of the Singer of Terandria. She was standing behind the mast of the ship, and Eireth saw her head poke out, pink hair shining in the moonlight.
“Stunning spell, hit the Singer.”
A [Battlemage] took aim, but she just ducked back into cover, and the spell harmlessly splashed on the mast. Eireth didn’t like it. There were far fewer options to neutralize someone at range without harming them…
“Lieutenant, [Threat Forecast]! Sound!”
“[Silencing] sp—”
Her people were good. The spells were already going up as Eireth shouted. She relaxed as the Singer’s head poked out from behind the mast. Then she activated her Skill, or at least, the [Lieutenant] assumed she did.
The waves rolling past her ship shivered, then fragmented into sprays of water. Eireth felt her own ship vibrating slightly and saw the Singer’s mouth was open. Whatever it was seemed loud—the Storm Sailors had hands over their ears, and she saw a fallen sword juddering across the deck.
Upon contact, paralysis! Eireth signalled to the [Mages] next to her, and they nodded. She lifted her hand; the ships were close enough now to activate [Light Bridge]. As soon as the Singer stopped singing, they’d attack.
Her hand rose and stayed up for five seconds. Ten…Eireth frowned as the vibrations through her boots grew louder. Now she saw the Singer more closely, it didn’t seem like Cara O’Sullivan was singing. It more looked like she was screaming…
There was a faint—wailing sound in Eireth’s ears. She felt at them and glanced at the [Battlemages] enforcing [Mass Silence]. They were casting, eyes locked on the Singer. But the sound was growing louder. And louder—
Eireth studied the Singer and moved to signal to attack—when the silencing spells tore and the [Wail of the Banshee] blasted her and everyone on board her ship.
The sound—! Eireth nearly clapped her hands to her ears as her entire body felt like something was vibrating it from inside out. The ship was shuddering—she pointed.
“Board and silence her!”
No one heard, but Rhir’s [Soldiers] were charging over [Light Bridges] already. However, the Singer’s voice—she turned, and the Lieutenant saw a cone of force sweep through the air and blast one [Light Bridge]. The spell shattered as the Blighted Kingdom’s warriors were hurled into the surf.
Dead gods, the Singer had the power to send objects flying? Despite herself, Eireth hesitated—this was on par with the [Heroes]’ abilities! But she hadn’t appeared in Rhir, had she?
No wonder I was given the order to claim her for the Blighted Kingdom! The [Lieutenant of Pragmatism] shouted.
“Advance! Stop her! [Squad: Haste]!”
[Soldiers] sped up, dodging another cone of sound, but the [Storm Sailors] rose from their hiding places and began to fight. Sea-faring fighters against Rhir’s own.
The Blighted Kingdom should have killed them fast, despite the [Storm Sailors] fighting on their own ship, but the [Captain] swung the wheel, and his ship rocked, splintering more [Light Bridges] and sending [Soldiers] plunging into the water.
“Press the attack!”
More and more [Soldiers] were advancing, heedless of the obstacles. But the Singer kept screaming—and Eireth feared actual hearing damage now. Even so, she saw a [Storm Sailor] fall as three black arrows sprouted from one eye. Her people were on deck now, and the Singer’s voice faltered.
She gasped for air as they surged towards her, then tried to scream again. Movement at the cabin doors—someone hurled a [Soldier] back with a heavy impact, and Eireth threw up a hand.
“[Halt Action]! Earthers, do not harm!”
The [Soldier] froze, and a second mallet hit him so hard he dropped, but the Earther, Thien, was safe and kept swinging his drumsticks around. She heard music from below, possibly empowering the crew…
The Singer. Some kind of barrier was surrounding her, blocking the spells the [Mages] were trying to disable her with. She drew in breath, but her wail was gone. Then she began to sing another song.
Eireth simply plugged her ears with cloth, knowing that her forces were doing the same. Charm or other effects wouldn’t work on them. She saw her [Soldiers] killing surrendering [Storm Sailors] on the deck and nodded.
Then the [Storm Sailor] with three arrows lodged in his eye sat up and jumped on top of one of her people. He ripped a gorget off one of the [Soldiers]’ throats—then the throat as well.
Ghoul. The surprised [Soldiers] were suddenly under attack—their own deceased and the ship’s dead crew were rising! The [Captain] wasn’t doing it—he backed away as more undead threw themselves at Eireth’s people. The [Lieutenant] just gazed at the Singer.
She could raise the dead and use magic with her voice? Small wonder Eireth’s superiors wanted her so badly. This woman should have been summoned to Rhir’s soil! Eireth clenched a fist, then relaxed. As soon as possible, she intended to return to Rhir where the only battle that mattered was taking place.
 
——
 
The dead were rising, but it wasn’t enough. Her trump card that had saved her so many times—the [Soldiers] just hacked down their own number and kept coming. She’d seldom seen such efficient killers. The crew, the [Captain]—
They ran him through as Cara backed up on the deck, the [Sailors] still alive fighting around her. She was trying to deflect spells and arrows, raise the dead, and debilitate them all at once.
She had more Skills than just her [Wail of the Banshee]. [Fame is My Magic]. [Melody of Flames]. [Song of Rejuvenation]—
She was activating them all. Flames appeared like burning stars, igniting [Soldiers] of Rhir, and lightning crackled overhead as the [Storm Sailors] fought harder around her.
But she was just one person. One—and her magic was up against dozens of [Battlemages]. She wasn’t a warrior.
And she had no champion. No ghostly [Knight]. No hero to fight for her.
Her voice was weakening. Cara was staring up at the sky, hoping someone was watching, but if this was Rhir, they weren’t going to leave witnesses. Some of the [Sailors] were shouting at the approaching vessels, but they all had the same black hulls. No help there, just more death.
God, what a mistake. She should have never done this—but she hadn’t thought they’d come after her like this. Cara’s voice was hoarse as she drew breath for one final scream. She saw the black armored bodies surging up the stairs of the deck—and falter.
Cara’s voice caught in her lungs. It felt like a hand was squeezing, squeezing her lungs. A knife’s edge of terror forced her juddering heart to halt, and her head turned.
On board the Blighted Kingdom’s ship…she felt something wake up. And then it was like someone was holding a knife to her throat. A feeling she’d felt before—she touched her throat and gasped.
“Who—who’s laughing?”
The [Sailors] cast around. They couldn’t hear it—but there was laughter in her ears. Was that an aura?
It was like pure madness—she saw the figures turning, and the rush from the other ship reversed. Someone, a female voice, was shouting orders.
“Surpress—Lord—fall back!”
A [Lord]? Then, there was a press of bodies around one of the stairwells. Cara saw the bodies pressing together fall about. She swore she saw a flash of silver—then red.
Something sliced through the bodies, and the spray of blood coated the black hardwood decks. She saw a smile flash across her eyes. Her head jerked, and it was burned in her vision. She was shivering—
“What is that?”
Then the laughter was surging across the decks, a man’s high-pitched voice. She saw a figure, thin and dressed in a ridiculous, colorful suit, turn, knives in his hands.
Cara laid her eyes on the first [Hero] of Rhir she’d ever met a moment before he began to kill the [Soldiers] around him. A laughing madman wrapped in steel and insanity.
A [Clown].
 
——
 
The voice woke me. So I killed my way out of the dreams. I don’t know where I am. I don’t know who I’m killing.
A thousand Demons are screaming at me. It’s a funny trick. Is this reality? Is this another dream?
Eireth. I swear I hear her voice. But I don’t care. 
Blood on the ground, in my mouth, on the floor. I turn, and the skies are a thousand eyes. The ground…is rolling. Where am I?
I hear a voice. Something real in this endless night. Kill that, kill the faceless marionettes with blades in front of me.
It’s so easy. They wave their blades, and my knives swing through them all. I leap, throw my blades, and pull more from their hands.
Still laughing. I can’t stop. I see another…hill…and now they all look like my friends. I plant my blade in Richard’s eye and twist—that’s the only thing that’s real.
If I’m awake. Have to think they made a mistake. Or else it’s just who they want me to kill.
The voice. Towards the voice. A singing Demoness with pink horns. She screams, and I hear it—
Hear it through everything. A female voice, screaming at me, and I luxuriate in the truth of the sound. But it’ll kill me.
—So I leap through the air. Grab that arm, and a blade slashes across my ribs. I’m laughing as I toss her from the hill into the ground that rolls and vanishes. 
Instinct. Madness. Everything else appears the same. So I kill the Demons in front of me, the ones behind me.
Friends.
Children.
They look the same, and I can hear Eireth telling me to stop—I put my foot on the edge of the cliffs behind me, grinning at her as she appears out of the mists. Raising her hands. 
Someone shoots me in the knee.
“I used to be a [Warrior] before that.”
No one gets the joke. I’m laughing. I spread my arms as she reaches for me.
She told me Emily was dead. Expected me to cry, if I even believed her.
I take a step back as well and—
Swear I’ll kill them all.
 
——
 
By the time ships were able to investigate the wreck of the ship assailed by the Bloodtear Pirates, there was no evidence aside from a huge amount of fish devouring the dead bodies.
…No armor or weapons to be found, which wasn’t thought of as suspicious by the [Harbormaster] until several inquiries had him sending [Fishers] and [Divers] to confirm that was the case.
But his hands were preoccupied with the Blighted Kingdom’s ships, who were unloading passengers. The [Lieutenant], Eireth, practically strode off her ship, so intent on heading out of the city. He supposed that was Rhir for you and thought little of the incident except to wonder why the Bloodtear Pirates would slaughter an entire crew including the Singer of Terandria.
They did that—but such a beloved person? Then again, perhaps she’d survived? No one could confirm seeing her die.
There the matter rested. Aside from a quiet request from Tulm the Mithril to the Seer of Steel to have any ships available investigate the matter—but he was unable to move from the New Lands where Dullahans were disembarking and felt frustrated.
Another, more direct message came from Elvallian to the Blighted Kingdom. It was addressed to King Othius IV from the Titan of Baleros. Of course, it was vetted by countless [Strategists] and other members of the court, but the message was a one-line sentence that eventually did reach the Blighted King.
 
What are you doing in my territory?
 
No response was sent back. Not that the Titan of Baleros had been holding his breath. Niers Astoragon sat and tapped his fingers on the chess board he was no longer using, then turned.
“Send Wil and Yerranola with Erin Solstice’s party. Tell them that the Singer of Terandria is either on board those ships…or those screams they heard from the harbor mean she escaped. Hand Wil a copy of my notes on Rhir for senior [Strategists].”
Atmodeca, his [Seneschal], nodded, and the Crocodile Beastkin stepped away.
“At once, Lord Astoragon.”
 
——
 
When Cara opened her eyes and found a seagull pecking at her hair, she realized she was badly sunburnt. Also, alive. She sat up on the beach, searched around, and began swearing.
 
——
 
It was another difficult day. A bad day, he would have said…but he had lived through truly bad days. Having a bird rip a leg off didn’t even rank in his Top 10.
No, these were just unpleasant. And it seemed, again, as if he should say that such days and nights had increased in number, but his memory was too good. Being an adventurer and then a young [Strategist] leading mercenaries meant he had wept all his tears long ago.
Niers Astoragon had buried every companion he’d loved and known save for Foliana and precious few others. His best officers and friends in the Forgotten Wing company were former enemies—and children like Perorn all grown up.
No—it was just disappointing. That was the word for it. He felt like he had earned, or won, the right to more pleasantness. At least some calm. Instead, he was once more up against multiple foes. Watching the Jungle Tail company, revived, eating pieces of his territory. Fighting the Dyed Lands, witnessing the scramble for the New Lands, and wondering when the next continental war would begin and whether his company would be in a position to weather the storm.
But not just the big things. Big things he could accept and even pat himself on the back for being in a position where the Forgotten Wing company were players on the board. It was the small things.
Small…like thinking you were going to meet someone you’d put a lot into. Too much, really. Imagination and hopes and—too much for her to ever live up to. If it was even appropriate.
But it wasn’t even her. Or was it? Was he mistaken? Now the doubts came, but that just added to the—disappointment. He’d hoped and, again, been reminded why you didn’t do that. He felt like a young fool, only he was far too old for this.
Small things. All the excitement of a new world tarnished by children being turned into pawns and soldiers. Having to play unkind hands against their ideals and finding bodies.
Or rather, not even bodies. More than he’d told Erin, Ryoka, or the United Nations company. Baleros was a harsh continent, and he couldn’t confirm if they were an Earther or a random Human. Or whether something worse had happened to them and been covered up. Roshal, hungry Lizardfolk, bandits—the jungle was a damn kindness.
The Titan of Baleros had been drinking, true, but the final straw had been this evening’s events. It wasn’t even someone he knew—it was just depressing.
Bloodtear Pirates. Go suck on a stickbug. Every [Storm Captain] and [Sailor] worth their salt who looked into that supposed raid would realize it wasn’t them. But there wasn’t any proof.
There never was. What got Niers was that they hadn’t even had the decency to be subtle about it. They didn’t have to. They just erased an entire crew, captured or killed the Earthers, and that was it.
And he couldn’t do anything about it. Rather, he could, but for reasons even Foliana could articulate, he wouldn’t. Niers had thought about it. He’d thought about everything. Killing the King of Destruction.
Making contact with the Demons and trying to get ahold of some truths.
Invading Terandria.
Even put a few plans into motion only to watch them fail. That was…fun. Making a difference felt like forward motion. Watching a ship burn and knowing he had to be silent made him feel like he was sinking into the mud. Drowning in disappointment.
It makes me want to pack up shop. Pull up the stakes, hand the reins off to Perorn, or just let them figure it out and lead a crusade, Terandrian-style, at something. Head over The Last Tide. March on the next country that thought it was funny to take Fraerlings hostage, like that story about Samal and the Fraerlings in cages.
Just burn a hole straight out of the world and rip a page out of the history books. Of course, it wouldn’t topple any true systems. He’d done it before; it never did. But dead gods and cats…it made a difference for the nation that vanished.
It was the same feeling that he thought, on dark nights, that had driven Flos Reimarch to becoming the King of Destruction. Or perhaps not; Flos was an actually principled man, even if it was all ego. Perhaps…this was the feeling of Goblin Kings.
The Titan of Baleros was sitting on his desk, tossing a few items in his bag of holding for his campaign. He didn’t really have a focus; anything he wanted would be sent after him. He wanted to go with Erin, Ryoka, and Geneva to Oelnnox and face that mess. He wanted to shake Erin by the shoulders or drop Iuncuta Eirnos and a full strike team on Jungle Tails’ heads. But he couldn’t.
So, the tired Titan of Baleros stood there, counting pairs of socks and wondering if eleven was enough. Dress socks, enchanted socks…it used to be you just hoped you had enough socks. He was so tired that when he turned and saw the door, he just ignored it.
Niers Astoragon walked past the door that stood upright, despite having no hinges or anything supporting it, next to a map of Baleros. He found another pair of socks and tossed them into his bag of holding. Then his head turned back.
“…Hm?”
The door was gone. The Titan rubbed at his eyes, then went back to picking out socks. And oh so carefully, he adjusted his belt and made sure the enchanted dagger was ready to throw. When he turned around with some boxers, the door was standing in the center of his table.
“Ah.”
This time, he walked around it and triggered a silent alarm on one of his rings. A door appearing in his chambers meant whomever had sent it had bypassed enough security measures to make even Foliana trip up.
But he didn’t sense instant danger…the Titan inspected the carvings on the stone door.
“Hm. Harpy. The Death of Wings? If you’re here, announce yourself. I’m in a bad mood.”
The tiny Fraerling’s head swept around, and his stare left a streak of soot on the maps on his blackboard, the table with the chess board. He waited—then counted.
“…nineteen…twenty…ah, fuck. Someone’s taken the citadel.”
He grabbed his sword. That alert should have had a response in five seconds or less. How many of his people were dead? They’re going after Erin. Get to the Fraerways, then Foliana. Activate—
Seneschal Atmodeca leapt into his rooms, wielding two toothed swords from the Beastkin tribes, and Niers heard a response in his ears.
“Lord Astoragon, Foliana is on her way!”
He blinked—turned—and the door was gone. Niers saw Atmodeca sweep around amazingly fast; the Crocodile Beastkin woman could move like her animal ancestors when she chose to, all speed and reaction. He frowned—then the hatch in the Fraerways blew open.
“[Mark All Targets]! Two?”
Iuncuta Eirnos and a full squad of Fraerlings wielding crossbows sighted and stopped, searching for an enemy they couldn’t see. Niers felt a finger touch his shoulder that neither Atmodeca nor the Fraerlings noticed.
Foliana. But even she didn’t react at the speed she should have. Niers spoke, frowning.
“There was a door with Harpy markings on it. Slow reactions, Iuncuta.”
“We were here in ten seconds, Lord Astoragon! Harpy? The Demons? Spread out and check for magic! [Mages], what do you sense?”
She barked at him. Niers saw more [Soldiers] appearing, and on a hunch, he frowned and touched his ear.
“Operator. How fast was your response time?”
“Four seconds, Lord Astoragon. Is this a test? Your code, please.”
He rattled it off and assured them this time wasn’t a test. He’d done this before, but…Niers frowned.
“I counted twenty-four. Time-stop. We’re up against [Chronomancers], perhaps. Or the Skill has a time slow embedded.”
Even the Fraerlings gaped at him, aghast, but Foliana just poked him gently again, signalling she got it.
What the hell can do that? The list was narrowing, but his first thought was…Nereshal? The Blighted Kingdom wasn’t that pissy though. Unless there was more to that ship attack?
Bogleraums?
Cats, he wished he hadn’t thought of that. The Titan swung around and gazed at Atmodeca, who was waiting for his opinion.
“I think I was hit with a Skill. A door appeared for me to enter. Some kind of negotiation or contract-type Skill. Perhaps the Blighted King.”
“Don’t enter it!”
Eirnos snapped at him as if she could give him orders. Niers just spoke to Foliana.
“It felt rather safe.”
Her third poke with the tip of a knife indicated she thought his instincts sucked. But now, Niers was waiting. Once, twice…do we get a third try? He pulled something out of his pocket and began flipping it in the air.
A coin. Just a tiny coin—Fraerling money from Rozcal’s city. Niers had no use for coins, but the glittering piece of worked gemstone flashed in the air. He flipped it a few times as he spoke, asking for [Mages] who could analyze Skills.
“I know it’s a Level 40+ spell, but I heard there were magics that could detect this kind of thing, Eirnos. Do you have any specialists? I—ah.”
Niers stopped talking and glanced up. The Fraerling coin hung in the air like a little star, the light reflecting off it. He turned, and Atmodeca was frozen, sweeping a hand over his desk, a giant woman. Niers turned back.
“Last chance, one supposes.”
The door. He could just let it go, and he bet whomever was sending it would get tired, but that didn’t fit his style. Most Skills like these, even if they were traps, had rules.
You don’t get a free time-stop with Skills meant to just kill you. Unless, of course, this was coming from a Level 70+ [Harpy Empress], in which case she might murder him dead. But that would beg the question why the Death of Wings thought he was worth murdering.
Maybe the door was faked to let him think it was Harpies? But if so, then you were faking a Skill. Nothing for it but to open it; he wasn’t getting more information from the façade of the door, and he did a circuit; it always faced him such that he couldn’t see the back of it.
Niers thought all this in eleven seconds. Nine left. He checked his sword and pulled out a scroll from his bag of holding and tucked it into a holster in his belt. Then he did an inventory of his equipped rings and made a firing order of spells.
And then…he reached for the latch handle and thought that if this was a fake, most idiots wouldn’t know what a Harpy door handle looked like. And that this was the perfect lure for him.
He shouldn’t have opened it. He was needed. If he died, so many bad things happened…but this door was the call to adventure, to danger. He had to open it. The Titan of Baleros reached for the handle and casually swung it open.
He stared into the empty blackness of the void and saw the strange brick path leading towards the distant gazebo. He breathed out, once, and then took a step forwards.
He had observed that he could ignore the door—that his levels and Skills meant he could even refuse it. Even now, he felt like he could step back if he wanted to. Though the effort was increasing with each passing moment.
I outlevel whoever this is. It still could be the Blighted King. Niers glanced over one shoulder, intending to send a message to whomever was here. Then he blinked. Stared up at something and smiled.
“Sorry. But I have to know.”
He walked through the door as it slowly swung shut behind him. Then, the Titan of Baleros realized that this strange place wasn’t empty. There was, in fact, a distant figure standing at that gazebo sinking through the void of reality.
She had brown hair. The Titan stumbled slightly on the path. He stared ahead, and his mind told him that it was like every other time: a mistake, a disguise, an illusion, a disappointment. His feet took him onwards.
 
——
 
Everything was strange about this time. She should have known it would be…but this was the first and only time she found herself waiting in the room.
Waiting—and chatting with the Pavilion of Secrets. Pavilion-Erin was watching the figure striding towards them. The real Erin Solstice was sitting.
“I didn’t know someone could refuse it like that.”
“They seldom do. This time is…unique. You’re amidst high-level people. Sheta never experienced this, but she was careful.”
Pavilion-Erin sounded—intent. Her eyes were on the door and the man. Erin Solstice just coughed into one hand.
Three times. She felt her heart pounding. The [Pavilion of Secrets] frowned.
“Ah, he finally noticed the rules. He’s got them in his hand.”
“I thought you beamed them into their heads?”
“Not this one. Do you want me to stay around?”
Erin frowned at Pavilion-Erin.
“You can do…no. No, not for this.”
“As you wish. I have something to—to do. This will be interesting.”
Oh yes. Erin Solstice saw her image vanish. Then it was just her, and she couldn’t quite see the road, so she craned her head. Glanced at the chess pieces on the board. She’d set them up with her as black, her opponent as white, but suddenly she thought this was so clichéd and stupid.
Act cool and sit here? They knew each other.
They were strangers.
He was perhaps the most dangerous man she had ever met. She owed him a great favor.
Part of her feared him.
She could have not told him anything, but Nerry had said he suspected her.
She wanted to meet him.
Erin Solstice owed the Titan that.
So she stood slowly, pushing herself up from the table, because just waiting for him to arrive was silly too. Her head rose, and the first thought that [The Wandering Innkeeper] had, when she saw Niers Astoragon in the flesh, was…
Hey, he’s pretty tall, actually.
The man who came walking across the brick path leading to the gazebo would have actually been a pretty tall Human—and it was Human he appeared to be to her. Or maybe she was just Fraerling-sized?
Or perhaps…this was how he saw himself. Because for the first time, she felt as if she could sense his will, his very aura, swirling into the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Changing it ever-so-slightly.
The Titan of Baleros was reading from a sheaf of papers in one hand, head bowed. He was walking straight to the gazebo, not following the slightly meandering road. He was, in fact, stepping through the void on a path of his own, not on the bricks.
No one had ever tried that. But he did it without even noticing, reading the papers in one hand. He was so engrossed in them that when he glanced up, he was barely ten feet from the steps. Then he stopped.
“Hey. Sorry about the late hour.”
She spoke without thinking, no grand pronouncement in mind. She should have said something fitting for their relationship, something to mark this moment. But the [Innkeeper] just smiled wearily.
The [Strategist] stood there, inspecting her, his face one of utter surprise. He blinked, lowered the papers, and spoke.
“You’re the real one. That is—I swore I saw a fake just now.”
She gazed at him. His voice was hoarse, and he seemed nervous to approach. She beckoned slightly.
“You’ve got good eyes. That was, um, the Skill.”
“Ah. A sentient Skill?”
Niers didn’t approach. Erin nodded.
“Wait, you’ve heard of them? It’s, uh, me, by the way. Erin.”
“Yes. You know who I am.”
She nodded. He just inspected her.
“What is the name of the Skill, if I may ask? I’ve heard rumors of Skills this powerful, but never…was this your Level 50 Skill?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked. He was interrogating her? And—she saw his eyes flick to his notes—
Was he testing the rules already? She glanced over her shoulder at the chess board and felt like water was rushing around her. As if she were in the presence of a Grandmaster of chess from her world—and she had met them. But not, well, just a ‘Grandmaster’ of chess.
Something more.
 
——
 
A word on chess.
According to the FIDE (the international chess governing body) ranking, the highest-ranking chess players were Grandmasters or International Masters as a rank below that. You could also get titles like World Champion, but anyone who ever hit that rank was a Grandmaster already.
Maybe a dozen players had won the World Chess Championship as International Masters…the point was that they were the best. Erin, back when she’d been on Earth, hadn’t been nearly good enough to even approach that level. She’d been considered a prodigy as a child, then gotten back into chess—still enough to be considered one of the best in the world, but that was comparing a molehill to mountains in terms of ability.
Still, she’d met them. A few of them. The feeling that she got from Niers Astoragon was like that of sitting down and facing a Grandmaster. But again—not just like meeting them.
Grandmasters were people too. They got mad, they told jokes, they were silly, and once you got past their reputation, you just saw people. Incredibly gifted players of chess, but it didn’t make them geniuses.
Chess was just a game. That was what Erin Solstice knew. Everyone else put so much into it. ‘If you’re good at chess, you must be smart. Chess is like strategy!’
It…was like chess. The pattern recognition, practice, reading your opponent, and skills that you honed through chess could apply to lots of stuff, but it was still, ultimately, only chess. Or at least, Erin hadn’t heard of a chess Grandmaster being asked to general an army or solve math equations.
You had to be careful to remember that. People cheated in chess. The players could be petty, silly, stupid—or the opposite, of course. But you couldn’t know who they really were until you sat down at a board against them and they played you.
Really played you. No amateur could bring a Grandmaster out on the board. They could beat you blindfolded, drunk, and half-asleep because there was no competition. But when they were sharp, well-rested, at the top of their games, motivated…then you saw them.
 
——
 
That was what Erin meant in her head when she felt like a river was rushing past her, the sensation of meeting a Grandmaster. It was the feeling she got from the Titan of Baleros, the world’s greatest living [Strategist]. Focus. Intelligence, thoughts swirling around him so loud and coherent she could almost hear them.
The Titan of Baleros was gazing at her. Directly at her, testing her. Testing this place, and he was not merely good at chess. His company was one of the greatest fighting forces in the world, and he had been a Named-rank adventurer, a leader of armies. It all pressed at her—and he didn’t even have a mastery of his aura. It was just him revealed in the Pavilion of Secrets. A tiny, subtle knife so sharp it would cut through you if you reached for it.
And yet, the [Innkeeper] had been here before. She leaned on the white wooden railings of the gazebo and inhaled the air, which was neither cold, still, nor really air but simply the void itself.
She stared past Niers, into forever’s darkness, and then smiled down at him. The rushing river of his intensity broke around her smile. She knew he had every right to be suspicious, to question, and she owed him this.
But even so, she reminded him of his manners.
“Before I answer that, I think this is the part where you introduce yourself.”
She called down to him, and the [Strategist] blinked. His mouth opened, and then he coughed into one hand. Folded the papers up and stuck them under an armpit. Then felt for a hat he wasn’t wearing and said—
“Ah. I am Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, Second-in-Command of the Forgotten Wing company. Last surviving son of Laismosz the Praeriehome. And you are Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. Aren’t you?”
He gazed up at her, and she smiled and nodded. Then she reached up and a waterfall of burning colors painted her hat, which she swept off her head. She bowed slightly and straightened.
“That’s me. And this is the [Pavilion of Secrets]. I invited you here because…I think I owe you a chat. No. I wanted to speak to you, Niers. That’s the truth.”
Though it was the [Pavilion of Secrets]…he didn’t believe her. He walked forwards slowly and rested a hand on the gazebo’s staircase.
“May I come up?”
“Please do. I’ve got a seat ready for you and everything.”
She gestured to the chessboard, and Niers halted when he saw it. He peered at her with such a curious expression on his face, and he glanced back at the door from which she could see a dark room, still cracked open.
“What’s wrong?”
When he hesitated too long, the [Innkeeper] asked, and the Titan eyed her.
“It’s…simply that if I were going to choose a trap for myself, I’d probably make it look like this.”
He murmured, and she inspected him. The [Innkeeper] slowly nodded as her smile faded, and she stood there, wondering what to say. Then her lips quirked upwards, and she walked over to the chess table. Casually, she swept the pieces off of it. Niers jumped and reached for a sword at his side as the pieces bounced to the floor of the gazebo or fell into the aether and vanished. Erin leaned over the table and beckoned.
“I wouldn’t blame you for thinking that. The last time you tried to meet me, a bird ate your leg, right? You opened the door anyways. Don’t fear me, Niers. I think I wanted to meet you to thank you, because I need help, and because I know you’re smart and I must plan ahead. But I also think I wanted to meet you so you could judge me. It feels like everyone I meet is afraid of me or thinks I’m silly. But you won’t do that.”
She glanced up at him, and the Titan stood there, frozen a second, before walking over. He sat down, glancing at her, taking in her hair, her arms, the scar around her neck…and she wondered what he saw of her.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros saw many things. But it was mostly what he didn’t see—the truth behind the illusions. When you built someone up in your head before meeting them, you imagined them to be all kinds of things.
Taller than they were, or more eloquent. You saw the pieces of them that you glimpsed, and so if you placed them too high, they always let you down. So it was true—
He saw no genius mind, all sharp blades of intellect. She didn’t approach him like someone dueling with a sword of wit. Nor was she a warrior.
Niers was a warrior. Erin didn’t sit ready to move or with the air of someone who had confidence in her body to execute what she willed.
She was, even, not a leader. Someone who thought of her people and who spoke and acted as the face, the pillar, the center of a group, whose limbs could be that of a nation. Who read rooms and minds with ease, and who inspired others to follow with their very presence.
Erin was an [Innkeeper]. Her class did not lie. But nor did she disappoint Niers Astoragon. He had thought, in the fake Erin he had met, that he had found a truth behind her, the warrior unveiled by fighting and the battles at sea, a jagged blade.
But this stranger wasn’t one for all she had so many scars. Nor was she a [Survivor], someone who had endured the unimaginable.
She was, instead, like a piece of glass. A prism, and the lens of light that shone in this place without a sun reflected those rays of her. Strategist and general, leader and builder. But he wasn’t sure what she was, not quite. She didn’t fit in the neat boxes he’d built for so many people over the years. Not even in three boxes.
[Innkeeper] was a good class for her, because he had no idea what she was.
If he had come in here like a rushing river of suspicions and fears, seeking information like a hungry bank overflowing, water flooding into every crack and crevasse, a tidal wave of inquisition—she just sat there.
Her flaming hat was the most magical thing about her, and when it vanished, she was just a young woman with patchy, white hair, discolored in places, fallen out in others, scars on her arms. Around her neck and on her wrists.
She seemed like she had gone through lifetimes. When she smiled at him as he sat down across from the table, Niers saw what he had always seen:
A wonderful mystery. As if even Erin Solstice didn’t know what might happen next, what she might say or do or think. A confidently vague mountain sitting in a world of mists. Waiting for life to hand her something else.
A mountain of experiences, each one built up on her regrets and failures and desires. Ready for her to collapse it to pave a path across the sea if need be.
Ah, there was her danger. The Titan smiled at last and inspected the table, then twisted around.
“Thank you for inviting me here. May I ask a few questions, or have I missed other niceties?”
Her hazel eyes twinkled faintly at him.
“I suppose we know each other well enough for you to ask. I hope I didn’t alarm you with the door. When you rejected it, I wasn’t sure if I was bothering you in a battle or something. It doesn’t affect you until the Skill ends. You just wake up—”
“And remember. Yes, the notes said.”
He’d pulled the notes out and was glancing at them. Erin peered at them, then stood up.
“Hey, can I see those?”
“You don’t know what they say?”
She edged around the table.
“Nnnnope. I mean, I know the rules, sort of. But I’ve never felt what it’s like to have the door come for me. Hey! This is written out really nicely.”
He coughed into one fist.
“I suspect it came to me in a way I found most understandable. So you’ve invited people in here?”
She glanced sidelong at him, and he was amazed he was taller than she was. Did it mean she was a Fraerling or was it just the property of the room? He could reach out and touch her if he raised a hand.
Niers did not. Erin nodded absently.
“Just a few people to see how it worked and then to tell some friends I was alive. I had it for a while…but I didn’t know how to activate it. I thought I’d have to get back to my inn or something. And I was busy not dying.”
“Ah. As a Fraerling?”
Another sideways glance. Erin nodded.
“I should’ve known you’d figure out what was going on.”
“Well, I met your imposter. Ah. You’re aware you have an imposter, right?”
“Mm.”
She frowned at the notes and then turned a page.
“Hey, it says here, ‘no harm shall come to you by any means save your own’. Does that mean you can, like, punch yourself in here?”
Niers cleared his throat.
“I suspect it means that you could activate a mental Skill or some other effect that might harm you, especially if it was something like accelerating your mind at cost. But it certainly seems as though you could trick someone into injuring themselves.”
“Or you could punch yourself in the face.”
Erin nodded to herself, and Niers felt a touch—exasperated. Which also reminded him that his relationship with her had rather been like that. She could be silly. Remember, it’s an act. I think.
“Doubtful.”
“No, you go ahead and try it.”
“…Why don’t you?”
Erin gave Niers a very serious look.
“I don’t want to. Also, this paper lies a bit. You can’t hurt people, but you can touch them. Plenty of ways to cause people discomfort.”
She paused and then shivered softly. Niers nodded, eyes on Erin.
“I promise that isn’t my intent, Erin. I’m simply here to ask questions.”
She peered at him like an owl—and then poked Niers in the side.
It was so fast that he jumped and slapped her hand by reflex. Neither action truly hurt the other; but Niers had definitely felt the poke. Erin sidled to her side of the chess table, then peered at her seat.
“Darn. And here I thought we were going to talk and hang out. Instead, this is like training for the Quarass. Phooey.”
Rather than sit down, she went to the benches that encircled the inside of the gazebo and lay down on them! Niers half-rose, then cleared his throat.
“The Quarass of Germina? I wouldn’t talk to her. If there was any person who could manipulate this place and you—she would be the most dangerous.”
His tongue seemed to twist in his mouth, and Niers hesitated—then the truth compelled him to add—
“Aside from the Blighted King, the Death of Wings, or Emir Yazdil, that is.”
She glanced up at him, as if realizing he’d had to add that. Erin put her feet up on the open window of the gazebo, which meant her back was on the bench. It was an attempt to appear casual, but it seemed highly uncomfortable, and she managed it for about six seconds before sitting crosslegged and scowling at him.
“You don’t tell me what to do, Niers. I need to talk to her, and the Quarass is like…the second-worst at best.”
“Who’s first?”
“Noneya.”
“Noneya? I don’t know that n—”
Niers’ mind, sharp as an Adamantium blade, caught up with the word right as Erin pointed at him.
“Noneya business! Hah!”
She stared at him. He stared back. Erin lowered her fingers. Coughed.
“I guess it’s some of your business. But I’m going to talk to other people whether you think it’s a good idea or not. Besides, I’m not the one opening random doors.”
She folded her arms triumphantly, and he fought for control of his features. Then realized…he was trying not to smile.
When the Titan smiled, actually smiled genuinely for a moment, he thought Erin Solstice relaxed. Certainly, she gave him one of her own, but it was far, far more worn than he remembered. Niers sat at the table and suddenly wished he had asked to play chess. Because he needed a piece to look at. He gazed at Erin again, trying to redirect back onto the mind sharper than the Quarass—if it wasn’t him, then who?
Or other matters. But he just watched her, and the words slipped out before he could help it.
“Dead gods, Erin. Who put you in chains? And are they alive? Because I will have them killed.”
The Titan gently asked Erin, and she blinked at him. Then her hands rose to her neck, and she stared at the scars on her wrists as if she’d forgotten she had them. Her face went blank. Her head lowered, and her locks of hair covered her face. He was guilty, then.
But then, after a moment, Erin inhaled; her head rose, and she looked him in the eye.
“Thanks, Niers. The ones who were on the ship already died, though. And the rest are too well protected to kill, for now.”
She thanked the Titan, who had terrified so many, even when he was small as a mouse, for the truth of what he would do. Simply and without doubt. And he…ah, damn.
He covered his mouth to hide a smile and kept his mouth shut.
Because his treacherous heart was falling a tiny bit in love again.
 
——
 
“So you killed them.”
The Titan and Erin were talking, him from the chess board, she from the gazebo seats. Then he moved—not to sit next to her, but to peer out across the void. She sat there in various positions, and he paced or leaned out the gazebo—even hopped out of it to pace around the outside and walk in the void.
Again, things she had never seen done. But it felt like they were both strangers and as if they knew each other well. So well. For you see, they had talked across the board, both as players and as well as sending messages. They’d seen what the other could do.
“I had help. And the masterminds in Roshal are alive, the six of them. But everyone else who tried to chain me and Ulvama died.”
Niers nodded. He turned his head to her, and he was again too sharp for Erin’s tastes. But she had wanted this.
“Where is Ulvama now? In my company or elsewhere? And the [Slaves] are with House Shoel, I presume? Or headed back to your inn? It won’t be safe if it’s the latter.”
She scowled at him.
“Do you get tired of asking nosy questions?”
He tugged at his beard, vexed.
“We’re on the same side, Erin. Can’t you trust me with answers?”
“I’m great at not giving out answers. Do you give your allies all the answers all the time?”
“I’m quite honest about what I do!”
She rolled her eyes.
“Sure, until you do the thing you were actually planning. Telling someone ‘you’re in check’ doesn’t stop you from forking their pieces or setting up a move. That’s what you do.”
“Point.”
He had to concede that and ran a hand through his hair.
“Alright, fine, what will you tell me?”
She thought about it, and he figured some of her hesitation came from experience in this place. Certainly, he’d managed a partial ‘lie’ about honesty, and she’d caught him on it. It would be extremely fun to use this place…if he didn’t actually want to talk to her. His desire for information was warring with his desire to talk to Erin, and he wished he could stomp the former, but alas—he was enjoying this too much. He waited as Erin uncrossed her arms, then rested her arms on the wall behind her.
“…I hate giant centipedes. And sandfleas.”
The answer took him off-guard, and he laughed despite himself.
“Oh. Oh, no. You’ve run into Balerosian wildlife? As a Fraerling? Are you okay?”
“Hey, I hit Level 50! I’m great! Look at these guns!”
She flexed a bicep, and he didn’t see much muscle, but Niers turned.
“You’re actually well? There are monsters which could kill Level 50 Fraerlings, Erin.”
“Yeah…I found help. I shouldn’t say who or what. It’s a promise.”
“Ah, a Fraerling village. Say no more.”
This time, she threw something at him. A chess piece. He caught the pawn in one hand and blinked.
“You can shift the [Pavilion of Secrets] as you desire. Ah, yes, it was in the rules. I skimmed that. Can you alter this place completely, like your [Garden of Sanctuary], or just in small ways? And can you open that door?”
She threw up her hands.
“Hey! Why don’t you reveal all my tricks? No, that leads to the [Palace of Fates]. No getting in. Now I bet you’re going to research that when we finish talking. This is why I didn’t call you up right away.”
Embarrassed, the [Strategist] changed subjects.
“I appreciate that you called. Truly. If you tell me where you are, I can have my Fraerling allies send help. Though there is a risk they might be monitored. It’s slight, but there. You know what’s happening with my company, don’t you?”
“Some things, but tell me.”
She sat up, and he shrugged.
“Let me see. The Dyed Lands are expanding aggressively, and three of the Great Companies are battling it. I haven’t heard from the Eyes of Baleros—the Gazer company—but they’re fighting Jungle Tails, who have emerged and are skirmishing across western Baleros, mostly. I suspect they’re also combating the Dyed Lands, but these two affairs are wrapping up my forces. It makes rescuing Rabbiteater’s group, or any other, very difficult as my armies will come under attack.”
“That’s rough, buddy.”
His brows crossed, and he turned to see her giving him an innocent expression. Erin wavered, then scowled herself.
“Damn pavilion. Alright, fine—that sounds awful, but I can’t do anything about it. I never could. I’m no [Strategist], and…you’re the Titan. I have to trust you can deal with it. Unless there’s actually something me or the inn could do?”
Niers had to admit, he was stung a bit by the cavalier response. Her explanation helped. He stared out into the void.
“Nothing on the level of strategic help. You curing Foliana was enough. It’s just a mess. Jungle Tails emerging the way it did truly did surprise me. Part of it was my former [Chamberlain], Peclir Im.”
He scowled, imagining that bastard, and focused on the man’s rather bland features. His balding pate. Why had he turned traitor? Something Jungle Tails could offer him, more than gold or power, Niers bet.
Erin jumped when she saw Peclir appear in the void. Niers smirked as he turned to her.
“That’s Peclir Im, if you should ever meet him. A dangerous man. Not physically, but sharp. He fooled me. Jungle Tails is sweeping across western Baleros; their old strongholds. My forces are pulling back, reconsolidating. It looks like, well, this.”
He swept a hand, and to his delight, the continent appeared in miniature around them, filling the void. Flags and figurines appeared as well, moving—the war room maps he had practically memorized.
“Hey! Stop, stop!”
Erin waved her hands as the images zoomed so she could peer down at western Baleros, where red lines indicated armies—even with troop counts and dispositions, Niers’ personal notes visualized perfectly.
I’d love this Skill for planning warsims. Niers created an image of ten thousand Nagas advancing on one of his burning fortresses, a composite of images he’d seen and his imagination, and then glanced at Erin. The vision of battle hung in the distance.
“What? Am I taxing the Skill or something?”
She pointed a finger at him.
“No! This is my cool thing to reveal! Stop figuring out what this place can do!”
Erin snapped her fingers, and the gazebo vanished. Then they were walking in the void over the map of Baleros. She stomped up to him, and he grinned. It was unsettling to the stomach to be floating, but he just pointed down.
“Strategy is the air I breathe, Erin. I’ve been frustrated of late. This is why. Do you see?”
She did. The map he painted for her rewound in time until it was pre-Jungle Tails attacking. She saw the flashes of combat appearing, just raids at first—then a flurry of attacks.
“The day I was betrayed and went missing in Izril. Now…”
The map developed more patches of red as Jungle Tails emerged. In the east and central Baleros where the Forgotten Wing company held strength, their flareups mostly were suppressed, and Niers pointed to Elvallian where he’d crushed an entire army. But the western perspective…
“Do you see what I’m doing?”
He was reminded of his classes with the fake Erin, whomever she was. The [Innkeeper]…was not that Erin. She peered at the map, frowning.
“I guess? Everyone’s leaving the forts? Packing up? And you’re moving towards the Dyed Lands…which are in the way of reinforcements to the west. Darn, no wonder you’re losing all the western stuff.”
Another flash of mild disappointment. Not that her read was off—but she just clearly didn’t speak strategy as any kind of language like she did chess. Niers pointed out movements of troops to her.
“Not just that. I’m…fighting delaying actions across our holdings. See the fortresses? We’re ceding territory but delaying Jungle Tails from establishing a base of power.”
She caught the patterns now he pointed them out to her, and he went on.
“You see, any fortress we have will endure most sieges. Jungle Tails rushed into several, and it cost them more than it should have to take the fortresses. Without that, they grind down the defenders, but they’re well supplied. When they reach the breaking point, I either relieve the forces or they use escape routes.”
Or surrender.
It was messy and felt like enduring blows to do it at this level, but it was buying time for him to consolidate his power and come at Jungle Tails. Erin murmured.
“I get it. I don’t like strategy, Niers. I’m not great at it…you’re letting Jungle Tails take all that territory?”
She watched as an entire city turned red. Niers shrugged tiredly. He wavered, but then was honest with her.
“What else can I do? When the Forgotten Wing company became the 4th Great Company of Baleros, we removed Jungle Tails from that position and took a lot of their holdings. Lizardfolk remember. It’s not even been more than two generations.”
“They’re not loyal to Forgotten Wing?”
“A bit—but Jungle Tails can offer them what I never could. Power. The Eyes of Baleros are power, and Lizardfolk are often treated like—the Gnolls of the continent. But differently. Second-class citizens, expendable. Yes, there are a lot of those who’d sympathize with Forgotten Wing, but they’d inevitably die even if we rallied militias. So we’re falling back. Jungle Tails won’t massacre most places, and I’ve evacuated those that are in danger.”
Abandoning places to the Nagas. Erin peered at the map, then her finger stabbed down towards a pocket of obvious blue.
“You must have a lot of people there, huh?”
He didn’t even have to look. Niers nodded.
“The Gelizment Frontiers. We have a lot of forces there, and it’s being enveloped slowly, but it will fall. I’ll have them endure sieges as long as we can, then retreat into the jungles. We might lose a third of them on the march, or they’ll have to go native—but I can’t reach it in time.”
Baleros had so many damn jungles that cutting a road that wasn’t already cut took time and resources. He was fighting for control of highways and forts. Erin nodded, accepting the explanation, but then she surprised him again.
“Yeah. It’s tough. I…this…is why I could never do your job, Niers.”
He felt a pang in his chest as she stared down at the map. Erin seemed to wrestle with herself, then added—
“Evacuating those forts in the frontiers sounds like the right thing to do. Or you could let them fight for it. Your soldiers, people who’re afraid of Jungle Tails. Everyone.”
His head turned to her. She was studying the map, and the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were tracing the flow of colors.
“It’s like…more central, isn’t it? A rallying point. I bet that people are looking to it as the one safe point right now.”
“Yes. But it can’t hold. It won’t, Erin. Jungle Tails has hitters as hard as my [Generals]. They will take the fortress if we make a stand there, especially if we collect so many we can’t actually put them in a fortress. It’ll be land battles. Army versus army, and they’ll die fast. Faster without healing potions.”
She nodded.
“It’s a symbol, though. And people are losing their homes, Niers. If you give them a chance to fight and die for it—some will take it. So long as this place stands, the entire region will rally around it.”
He felt a light tingle on his skin.
“They’ll be slaughtered. They would do a lot of damage, but I’m avoiding that.”
She peered up at him, and her hazel eyes were suddenly bleak.
“Yeah. But strategically, does this make more sense?”
“From a certain point of view.”
He was cold, but his arms were tingling, and he felt his heart leaping. A monster’s heart—Erin turned away.
“It’s their choice. It should always be their choice. If you give people the right to die for home and family, not needlessly, they will take it. If you do that—how much time does it buy? How many troops does Jungle Tails have to divert to take this spot? How much does it distract them? How much morale does it raise?”
“I can’t answer that. But—I think it’s worth trying.”
He murmured, and she turned away. Waved a hand, and the continent below vanished. Erin stood with her back to Niers, suddenly appearing burdened, as weary as he had been before the door had appeared.
“Erin?”
“I wish I hadn’t seen that. I wish I hadn’t suggested that. This is why, Niers. This is why you and I aren’t the same. It’s too hard to be a person with your job. How do you…not become a monster like Chaldion? Or worse?”
She turned to him, and now he felt like she was inspecting him as so many did—searching for the monster that so many found to be self-evident, bursting out of his skin. But she wasn’t sure. And—he whispered.
“Everyone’s a monster when you hand them power, Erin. It’s…avoiding what you know you can do. Knowing you can point, order, and someone vanishes. But you don’t do it. Something has to matter more than your own ego. You put an anchor down and cling to it. Foliana treats everything like hers, but she takes care of it. A giant squirrel and her nest and children.”
“And you?”
Her eyes locked onto him like beams of light, and he shrugged. The truth compelled his tongue.
“I have students because it makes me not want to horrify them. I’m second-in-command because I need to treat this like something I’m responsible for, not something I own. How do I stay grounded otherwise?”
He flexed a hand, staring at it intently, at the scars rather than her face.
“I meet other Fraerlings, and if they refuse to get near me, I know I’m being sucked into my position.”
“Ah. They’re a moral people.”
He heard her exhale, and then he dared to meet her eyes. She was gazing away, and he breathed again.
“Yes. They are. Smallest of the world with egos and opinions about giants. I, ah, I lied to you, you know. Within the rules of this place.”
She turned to him, and Niers walked through the void. He conjured nothing, but just stared down.
“Laismosz the Praeriehome. I called myself the last son of it. Which is true…but it wasn’t destroyed. It suffered attacks. Several, because I came from it. Because I involved it in my wars and struggles. The city wasn’t fully wiped out—it just dissolved into smaller settlements.”
“Oh. Do you feel guilty about it?”
The Titan of Baleros stared down, down into the darkness.
“On bad days, I don’t. I tell myself I could have made them what Paeth is now. I think that Fraerlings should be feared, should be strong. Or at least have someone like me with a finger on the scales of the world. But then I remember—”
He turned to her, grey in his hair, a tall man with a sword, handsome and charismatic—a warlord who could compel thousands to follow him, daring enough to fight giants, mind sharper than any blade. Held back only by his size.
Titan of Baleros. Niers finished his sentence.
“—I never gave them any choice. So they chose for me.”
He waited, and [The Wandering Innkeeper] exhaled. She stepped forwards, and he thought he saw something appearing out of the darkness. An inn glowing with lights, rising higher, changing—he blinked, and it was gone, a ghost of memories.
“I think the same thing, sometimes, about Liscor. About people I help and hurt. I’d do it again. Perhaps they were happier before they wondered if Antinium had names or if killing Goblins was right or wrong. Or perhaps they were in less danger. I will do it again and again. I just don’t like myself that much sometimes, Niers.”
He stood there and felt that painful connection in his heart. The Titan gazed at Erin, then away.
“I challenged Jungle Tails because I saw them pressing down on people like a rotten fruit. Filled with maggots and corruption and decay. I threw Baleros into war; I have killed and fought for my land and kept going. Because I see no one else with a better vision for this continent.”
In silence, the two stood together. Two monsters wearing facsimiles of flesh, pretending to be people. Niers realized his heart was hurting more. He understood Erin. He felt connected to her. This conversation was everything he wanted—
And it was a nightmare. They understood too much of each other. He tried to change the subject to something lighter, and he could not. Nor could she, in this moment. She wore her scars fresh—she was still the woman who had slain a [Prince] and shoved him aside without even pausing to look at his face.
No. Not this.
He felt Queravia laughing at him, because once more he had gotten his wish only to find it had twisted. He had always, always wanted someone who understood him. But not so perfectly.
I would rather we had just played chess…
He could feel his mouth opening, and Niers feared what he would say next. Or she—her eyes contained that weight which could crush souls into dust as she turned to him. Trapped by their similarities. Helpless in the face of a tragedy of their own design.
Every Titan needed a hero. Every innkeeper needed a guest of magic and adventure.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was one the great works of Empress Sheta. But it wasn’t invincible, perfect, and neither was the [Palace of Fates]. And both the [Strategist] and the [Innkeeper] had forgotten that.
It was the smallest sliver of light in the void they stood in. There was no light source in the [Pavilion of Secrets], and yet, in this moment, Niers did feel some kind of light on his skin. Not that he needed it to see here; if there was no light, there was no true darkness either. He and Erin were perfectly visible…but he was still illuminated by something.
He turned—and realized where it was coming from. There was a sliver in the air. Just a tiny fragment—but something was pouring from it.
True light. Not even strong light; the ambiance of a room, but it made Erin turn.
“What’s that, Niers?”
“I don’t…oh. The door. Is my time up?”
It was the door that he’d opened to get here. It hadn’t vanished, even though the door to the [Palace of Fates] had—temporarily at least. Erin waved a hand.
“No, I don’t think—hey, Pavilion? What’s going…huh.”
The gazebo was back. Niers and Erin were standing in it, and he twisted around and saw the vast doors, fit for a giant Harpy, on the other side. The door that presumably led back to his reality over there…
A hair open. He and Erin exchanged a glance.
This is what they forgot: a woman who looked like Erin, but who wasn’t, appeared in the distance in front of the door. Niers focused on the [Pavilion of Secrets] and saw her standing there. A hand against the door. She turned as Erin strode down from the gazebo, and Niers followed and spoke.
“Don’t mind me. I’m just doing my job. Took you long enough to notice.”
Erin frowned as she approached the door.
“What job? Why’s the door open? Wh—oh.”
She came to a halt, and then Niers saw it too. Though he wasn’t as surprised as the two women, who both turned and stared at him. Alas, he was smiling a bit. He stood as that sliver of the door moved wider, just a hair. Revealing what lay on the other side.
A strangely grey world. His rooms where the Fraerlings, like Iuncuta Eirnos, and Seneschal Atmodeca were held—searching around, moving, but in snapshots of motion. They’d appear here or there—like pictures.
Strange. Even Erin was entranced. Was it due to the Skill? Or perhaps the Niers and Erin were moving in different dimensions? He swore he even saw himself walking around and wondered how much time was passing. The snapshots seemed…slower than they should be. As if they were moving faster for some reason.
He wasn’t sure…but what Niers did see, along with Erin, was that something had changed in the room beyond. Despite the power of the [Pavilion of Secrets]—a hand had moved as Niers had opened the door. He’d seen her as he turned.
The greatest [Strategist] in the world—and never forget, his superior. The greatest [Rogue].
Three-Color Stalker.
Foliana.
She was a giant given the size of the door. And she had a clawed tip of her finger on it. She was frozen in place, seemingly, her eyes glowing, but her nail was on the door, pressing at it. The [Pavilion of Secrets] was on the other side, holding it in a silent stalemate. But the door—was—opening.
“She’s quite talented, even for her level. As I said…this didn’t happen even in Sheta’s time that much. They were in the same room, which doesn’t help.”
Pavilion-Erin was trying to sound measured and calm, but there was a faint strain in her voice. The real Erin put her hands on her hips, and suddenly—that air of heaviness around her lifted.
She smiled, and her voice was teasing.
“Met your match?”
“Hardly. She can’t even force the door open. I have far more safeguards for her kind. But if you’d care to help?”
Pavilion-Erin really should have known better. But she missed the twinkle in Erin’s eyes. The [Innkeeper] walked over and put her hand on the latch of the door. She turned, winked at Niers, and pulled the door open.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] recoiled, then sighed—and Niers saw the giant hand of Foliana vanish. A regular-sized Squirrel-woman stumbled—caught herself as she drew her daggers in a blur, and held one at Erin’s throat.
“Mm. That was hard. And quick. I feel old. Is this a trap, Niers?”
She inspected Erin, and Niers shook his head.
“Welcome to Erin Solstice’s Skill, Foliana.”
He should have been annoyed, but he was mostly impressed she’d made it, even with Erin’s help. Dead gods, she’s going to brag about this for years.
Foliana peered at Niers, at Erin, and then poked Erin with her dagger.
“Ow! Hey! Foliana, it’s me!”
Erin sidled away from the daggers. The Squirrel Beastkin sniffed her a few times, then regarded Niers.
“Mm. It looks like a trap for Niers.”
“I’m not a trap! Stop poking me! No violence is allowed in here!”
“I know. I heard. You should be exploding when I poke you with this. Okay.”
Foliana hopped into the room, inspecting the bricks, the gazebo, the door on the far side, and then she peered at Niers. He cleared his throat.
“Erin was catching me up to speed on what was going on with her situation, and I with her. The implications of this—”
“Don’t care. Snacks.”
Foliana did a hop, vanished, and appeared on the roof of the gazebo. Niers and Erin whirled, and the [Innkeeper]’s jaw dropped.
“Wh—hey! Can she do that?”
For answer, Niers took a step and appeared on the gazebo roof. Instantly, he stumbled and then fell, cursing—
“Foliana, you rat!”
He hit the ‘ground’ without pain. Foliana lowered the foot she’d kicked him with.
“This is my spot now. You were having fun while I tried to get through the stupid door. It felt like I was pushing for hours! Snacks.”
“Half an hour at most. Erin, you can eject her if you want.”
“Try it.”
Niers sprang up, and Erin appeared next to them.
“Oof! I’m gonna hurl! Eject Foliana? Aw, but I like her! I can do snacks! Better yet, you wanna visit a coffee shop, Foliana?”
Her eyes lit up, and Niers realized he hadn’t considered Erin’s ability to share her memories.
We could do so much with this place—but then Foliana jumped down.
“No.”
“No? But it has great snacks! Even Fetohep liked it!”
She invited King Fetohep here before me? Well, he did know her—Niers kept his face straight. Unfortunately for him, and Erin, they were in the presence of Foliana, who smiled hugely.
“Niers. She invited Fetohep before you.”
She poked him, and he tried to jab her back, but she hid behind Erin. Blushing faintly, Niers growled.
“And what’s wrong with a coffee shop? You drink it like a sponge!”
“Yeah! I like the place! It’s in Grand Rapids, my home city! I used to go there all the time! Well, some of the time. The coffee wasn’t free.”
Foliana turned up her nose.
“Anything good enough for the King of Khelt isn’t good enough for me. Take me somewhere, mm, better. Then tell King Fetohep about it. Snacks.”
She slapped the railing of the gazebo, and Erin spluttered.
“Snacks? How about Chuck E. Cheese’s?”
“Sounds stupid. What makes it special?”
“It has a giant rat for a mascot.”
“I’m a Squirrel. You’re, hmm, speciesist. You heard her, Niers. Terrible.”
“Wh—I’m not!”
Niers kept his face straight as he shook his head, folding his arms disapprovingly.
“I did hear that too, Foliana. A terrible thing. And she made me the same height as her. Disrespecting my Fraerling heritage.”
Erin spun around to him.
“We’re the same height, Niers, pal! And I know you use Signim!”
Foliana poked her from the other side.
“He uses it because he has to. Don’t be heightist. Also, you made us think we were under attack. Bad. Bad. Don’t be bad, buddy. Friendo. Chum.”
“That’s my bit, Foliana. You can’t use—”
Erin started giggling. Niers felt himself smiling despite himself. He stared at Foliana as she held out her paws and shoved them in Erin’s face.
“Snacks.”
Fortunately, Foliana had appeared. When Erin, exasperated, took them to a supermarket, the Squirrel Woman merely stole a basket, then refused to accept any candy until Erin took them to a restaurant in Grand Rapids she had been to, an ‘Electric Cheetah’, that she swore she liked. But the Squirrel-woman could not be contained.
As soon as she had raided the root beer and eaten appetizers, she demanded Erin take them back to the gazebo room. Not for any conversation. Or rather, that was a secondary objective.
 
——
 
“Hmm. You’re small now?”
“Yep. Hey, Niers, you do the lights. And why do I have to carry you on my shoulders, Foliana?”
“It’s funnier that way. Stop moving. How’s it being small? Niers made me small for a while.”
“You did?”
“She wanted to visit a Fraerling city. It took ages to make the spell good enough for a prolonged stay, and she was only there for six days.”
“What? That’s so cool. Think they’ll be able to make me get bigger? But why only six days?”
“Undoubtedly if you find a big city. Foliana, you tell her?”
“Racism. More light, Niers.”
“…She broke into every place she could and stole everything she could, didn’t she?”
“Yep.”
“Mm. And I solved part of their Last Box, and they got mad.”
“You did?”
Erin was giggling so hard that Foliana hopped up and hovered in the air instead. Niers floated up and created a steady beam of light for Foliana to see with. The fourth member of the group, squeezed against one part of the [Pavilion of Secrets], folded her arms.
“You’re never going to get in.”
“I got in here. Niers, pass me the other pick. No, the squiggly one. The squiggly one. The squiggly—yes.”
They were all gathered around the vast doors on the other side. What was Foliana doing?
She was trying to pick the lock to the [Palace of Fates]. Pavilion-Erin glowered as the real Erin held up a root beer for Foliana to sip. And that’s all they did. Just chatted while Foliana tried all the tools in her bag of holding and quite a lot more she imagined to jimmy the lock.
In the end, she failed, but she made Erin promise to let her try again. And they didn’t speak of great big things. Just how bugs tasted and Foliana scaring Ryoka.
Niers would have thought it was trivial and mundane an hour ago, but he was so relieved that Foliana had appeared that he slung an arm around her shoulder as they were walking back to the door. She instantly vanished.
“Meh. I’ll unlock the door next time. You talk strategy with Niers too. Promise?”
She held out a pinkie, and Erin hesitated.
“I guess I could at least talk to him. Now and then. It’s tiring using this thing, but…we could play a game.”
She smiled, and he slapped his forehead.
“We forgot! What about a few rounds of speed chess?”
“No.”
Foliana tugged at his arm, and he protested. So did Erin.
“We’ve got all the time in the world, Foliana! Since this is like, only part of us. We could play a bunch of games! I like that!”
“No. I’m not leaving until Niers leaves because he has to explain everything. And I’m not going to watch boring chess.”
“It’s not boring.”
The two chorused. Erin promised to contact Niers at a better time, and he promised to play some games unless he was in a battle or something. And then?
His hand was on the door latch when he couldn’t help but glance over his shoulder at her. And he thought she’d grown older. Far older in days. Just as he’d told Lyonette, she’d lived through something new, terrible, and come out the other side.
But she’d already been someone who kept secrets. She’d already lived and died once, and that was more than he had done.
Too many secrets, making it impossible to talk to her and get a glimpse of her, just like how he could tell the truth and be honest and no one would ever see the color of his soul. Erin’s eyes lingered on Niers, then flicked to Foliana.
“Niers? Foliana. Thanks for talking and not pressing me super hard on anything. It’s difficult to share big secrets.”
He raised a hand, and Foliana nodded. They lingered there as Erin took a breath. Then she turned her back and stared into the infinite void, as if there was nothing frightening there. It made Niers shiver, and his mind wrestled with the limitless sights. But she just stared into that great beyond as if she were seeing something else.
He could see it, here. Niers saw someone come striding out of the darkness. A lone figure who raised a hand in greeting and farewell. He wore a strange suit, bulky and festooned with tools that hung from his belt. Pockets—Niers recognized the way the suit was made, and it said to him that it was airtight. Like Drowned Folk diving suits or Dullahan’s gear for dangerous environments.
But he—Niers stared at the short man with his pointed beard, white hair, and smile full of laughter and mischief and intelligence.
He laid eyes on Zineryr the Gnome, and his mind went blank. Foliana blinked, and her tri-color gaze flicked to Erin—and then she jumped as the void split and tore.
“Gnomes?”
Pavilion-Erin whispered, and she appeared with the two, staring with an open-mouth. But the [Innkeeper] only raised a trembling hand, and the colors shot across the skies, turning the endless night into a sea of blazing colors, like Dragonfire of every kind burning through the world.
Memories.
Niers saw more laughing folk appearing, waving at him, and his heart leapt when he saw Fraerlings, a Giant standing, Khelta, and a host of people, some of whom he knew, regarding him.
Erin turned and cupped her hands to her mouth, shouting at him.
“Niers! This is Khelta; Velzimri, the Sage of a Thousand Secrets; and Elucina, the Rebel of String. They saved my life and taught me, along with Califor and the [Witches]. And this—this is one of the Gnomes I met. His name was Zineryr! I think he was there when the gods died. I think—”
Tears caught in her eyes. Shimmering water and regrets and wonder. Erin turned to the smiling Gnome.
“I think he was a scientist, an explorer. I think he never wanted to be a warrior, but he was really, really good at it. Sort of like me. I wish I’d talked to him for so much longer. That’s who I met.”
She had told him once, but the truth of it took Niers’ breath away. He gazed upon the face of a Gnome and thought, yes, here were the laughing folk written in Fraerling legends and lore.
Zineryr did not disappoint, like so many others. Niers and Foliana exchanged a glance, and he saw her eyes were also shining. Niers gazed past Erin, at the lands upon which these ghosts stood. He thought he knew, but he asked anyways, voice hoarse.
“Where is this?”
“The land of the dead! Or—it used to be. There was a war for everything, and you missed it. I think they could have used you. Now, I believe it’s gone. They are. But this is what it looked like. It’s too awful for me to show anyone. I can’t even show Ul…but you—you get it. Look. I lived through this and no one would ever understand, even when they believed me. But you do. Aside from the battle at sea and Roshal’s ship, everything else was easier.”
The [Innkeeper] had tears in her eyes as she spread her hands, and he saw Seamwalkers battling ghosts. The half-real lands of Izril consumed by towering horrors. A [Soldier] with a gun, riding a Dragon. And his heart leapt and hurt in ways that even he would have been ashamed to say. A terrible longing and regret. Just like hers.
Foliana nudged Niers, and he realized he was taller than she was, a rarity for them. The [Rogue] was smiling.
“Ooh. She’s outdoing us, Niers. What do you think? I don’t feel like dying. Mm. Too ordinary.”
Foliana peered at the landscapes flashing below, above, all around them. Even Pavilion-Erin was gazing in wonder, head spinning left and right, as if she didn’t know this.
What did Niers think? The answer came from his mouth, too fast for him to stop.
“It’s a land. It’s ground of some kind. It can be taken and held. If it exists—it’s just another frontier.”
What a madman. He regretted saying it the moment he heard his own voice, because it sounded insane. But then he looked around and realized he was in the company of an old friend, a Skill, and Erin Solstice. She just smiled at him, seeing a piece of his soul—and he gazed at the Gnome’s face.
A suit meant for an explorer, not a warrior. It wasn’t armored. He didn’t carry a weapon.
So that was a Gnome. Niers raised a hand, gazing at the sky streaked with colors. And he did reply. He swept a hand over the vision before him, and the air split in two. Erin’s vision of the lands of the dead remained, but halfway towards him, the colors stopped. He heard a voice panting.
 
——
 
Felt the grit on his skin. Smelled blood—and the tang of magic and something else in his nostrils. Erin Solstice’s eyes widened, and she beheld a ghost.
A screaming Naga, spear raised, body translucent, face warped until their mouth was a hole in reality, their body distorted by the wraith’s fading memory. A true ghost in the Waning World—
Until a pair of daggers swept through it and the screaming ghost vanished.
Memory.
A younger Foliana appeared, panting, ice coating her armguard and left shoulder as she pointed. Shouting behind them; a corridor of bodies. His people were advancing over the corpses of Jungle Tails’ soldiers. Fighting in the Labyrinth of Souls, closing the net.
“Where’s the Dragontouched? Has he reached the center?”
Niers heard his own voice as Named-rank adventurers, friends, advanced past him. A half-Elf with a bow from the Village of the Spring, eyes glowing with magic. A rebel Naga, holding scimitar blades. They were moving into a vast room, and someone whispered.
“Niers—there’s too much magic ahead. My [Dangersense]…”
Danger was singing in his ears too, the loudest sound he’d ever heard. Foliana glanced at Niers, and he realized she had never known what he’d heard in that moment. Niers heard his voice echoing.
“Push forwards. We can’t let him get whatever is here. If it’s another Eye of Baleros—we advance.”
The image blurred. Niers and the Named-rank adventurers who were his team, and the [Mercenaries] they were fighting with that would later become the heart of the Forgotten Wing company, kept moving forwards. Until they found the Dragontouched, the leader of the Jungle Tails company who’d followed them into this dungeon.
He’d reached the center minutes before they had. And there they saw it.
“I have seen the faces of Elves.”
Niers met Erin’s eyes, and she saw them. The statues lining this vast room in alcoves—preserved against the wrath of time.
No, this battleground.
A testing chamber. He could still see the dais rising in the distance in his memories, as clear as day. The promise…waiting behind the last trial of the Labyrinth of Souls.
A little figure lay on the ground, surrounded by dead Lizardfolk and Nagas of all species. The Dragontouched, whose features had been altered from the Naga he had been, able to breathe every flame known to Dragonkind—lying there, staring up at the test.
The largest Hydra in the world, made of shimmering energy, some construct from the age of Elves, rose a thousand feet high. Next to it, a far smaller Minotaur, still a Giant unto its kind, rested a hand on the axe that had cut the Dragontouched in half. Niers heard his own voice, calling out hoarsely.
“Retreat. Ret—”
The face of Elves.
 
——
 
“I’ve always known where the answers were.”
He wanted to laugh at the expression on her face. The Titan of Baleros had never, ever shared that image with anyone. How could he even describe it? Who would believe him, if he did?
“We were never ready. I told you…”
You’re not the only one. The image of the Labyrinth of Souls vanished behind him. The Titan of Baleros turned, and he saw it again.
This time, it was just a marsh, absent of the regular noise of insects and animals. An older Niers, raising a hand warily as his hunting force halted. A veritable army ready for what he thought was an Elder Creler.
Then—the muck and water erupted upwards. What he’d thought was an island rose—and the serpentine head came up. Eyes flashed in two colors down at him, and the detritus and filth clinging to the Earth Dragon’s scales fell away. They shone such a vibrant green that even his [Soldiers] hesitated.
The young Dragon roared a challenge in the common tongue, and she barely spoke it well. The Titan threw up a hand—and he met her eyes as the [Innkeeper] stared.
I’ve met them too.
Then he saw her gaze at him, smile, and her eyes lit up with wonder. He realized he could talk about them, with her, and not betray that sacred trust.
Ah, look, his heart seemed to cry at him. Look.
I’ve found another real person who has beheld a truth and not been blinded by it.
Even the [Pavilion of Secrets] was silent, drinking in these mysteries like a child hungry to find the answers. Niers, Erin…
And Foliana. The great [Rogue] of Baleros gazed at the warring visions of might and magic, wonder and legend as the two glanced at her. She waved a paw over her head. Then seemed vaguely displeased when nothing happened. Niers and Erin began to relax their control on the images around them—but Foliana was quicker. She drew a dagger and cut—
Everything.
When Niers saw again, it was her vision she wished to show them. To show Erin.
 
——
 
What Foliana saw was the way their faces tightened. A hand clenching. The way they drew back or looked around.
Fear in the lines of their bodies, but also their auras. And she saw every aura. That was what even Niers forgot at times: how different her eyes were.
To the Squirrel Beastkin, every person’s aura was a manifestation around them. It pressed at other people, reflecting their desires, feelings, and strength. To Niers and Erin, it was a surreal, dizzying vision.
But they still saw the court, resplendent with ancient legends writ on the very walls. And the [Innkeeper]—her breath caught as the [Prince of Men] bowed stiffly to the visiting Squirrel Woman.
Prince Iradoren. Then he stepped back, and even he was afraid of the famous killer of Baleros. Even in his court of myths.
“Foliana…”
Niers’ voice was lost in the memory. And the [Innkeeper] had just stepped forwards to stare at Prince Iradoren’s face. She peered at him as he stood there, talking to a short Fraerling with great interest.
But the Squirrel Beastkin stood alone, partly invisible, as ever. She hopped around the Court of Myths in Erribathe, peering at the strange representatives of each part of the Kingdom of Myths, the best of whom were only vaguely aware of her presence. Unwanted, unwelcome.
As ever. Foliana felt only a bit sad as she hopped over to a corner and sat, watching as the young [Prince]’s eyes lit up with tales of the world he had never met, surrounded by sycophants, hanging on the Titan’s words, trying to make promises he had no right to. A younger Niers too. Not yet head of a Great Company of Baleros.
Then someone surprised Foliana. She jumped four feet up as a hand touched her arm. Someone had snuck up on her; an old half-Elf—old, even for their kind, bowed to her.
A servant? She held a broom and asked Foliana if there was anything the [Rogue] wanted. Foliana was not fooled and shook her head as the former Queen of Erribathe bowed like a servant. She left—and then a man came striding into the room, late, hair covered with leaves, mud on his tunic.
Laughing about wrestling a pig, to the dismay of his son. And his aura could have swallowed the entire palace, but it was contained, barely peeking out of his skin. The most ordinary [King] she’d ever met. A slumbering monarch? No…a content [King].
The King of Myths cast around the room and then bent his head and listened to the serving half-Elf. His eyes found Foliana. So he gazed around, found a table, and picked up a silver pitcher and cup. Like a [Cupbearer], he approached her and offered her a glass, pouring the wine from the pitcher. Because no one else had remembered to.
She smiled faintly at King Nuvityn, who had no fear of her. Only eyes that sparkled with delight for meeting someone who carried stories with her. Who was one. A man who could not be tempted with glory for glory’s sake. A fine ruler of Erribathe, and the despair of his son.
Foliana’s head turned in the memory, and she met Erin Solstice’s gaze.
That was who she’d killed. And this…Foliana pointed a finger at the smiling King of Myths holding the pitcher.
This was her foe.
 
——
 
“Now, I see. I didn’t want to know his face. Do you remember them, Foliana?”
“Yes. Sometimes. Mostly, no. But sometimes.”
Niers was jealous of Foliana, because she had something to teach Erin, a perspective he did not. She always had been able to cut to the heart of matters in ways he never could. And he could do what she could not, but in this moment, he did envy her.
Erin Solstice stood in her [Pavilion of Secrets], and her eyes lingered on the place where King Nuvityn’s memory had been.
“He looked nice, for a [King]. I killed his son.”
“I’m protecting the—other Erin as best I can. And Erribathe is not foolish. I’d be more wary of other factions than them. He wouldn’t harm children.”
Niers added quickly, and Erin nodded. She stood there, head bowed, and he feared they had burdened her. But then she exhaled and turned.
“Thank you, Foliana. And you, Niers. I think that’s enough for today. I don’t wanna spoil all the cool stuff and heartache on the first meeting.”
She smiled faintly, and he grinned ruefully in answer. Foliana just scratched at one ear with her foot. She and Niers weren’t weeping with emotion, and in truth, neither had Erin, except for once.
All their grand deeds and these events of which they’d shared were behind them. Instead, they stood together, and Niers only regretted he hadn’t taken them to one of his favorite bars in Elvallian and all had a drink.
A drink—such a quaint tradition, but they had no greater emotions to spill out. They weren’t performative, here, or back in these moments. A toast to now and then—and to the days to come. Between those who had witnessed stories.
That was what lay unsaid in Foliana’s casual words. She nodded at Erin, and there were few people she had ever offered that quicksilver smile to. Like a flash of her daggers, sharp and alive. Niers was grinning too.
“Fancy Skill. Don’t get trapped here. Touching grass is also nice. And she’s boring. Don’t like her.”
She poked Pavilion-Erin in the cheek until the fake Erin swatted at her finger. The [Innkeeper] laughed. Then she raised a hand.
“Thank you. Until next time.”
The Titan nodded. He turned the door’s handle in his hand and walked out of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Both he and Foliana glanced over their shoulders as the door swung closed.
Niers saw Erin smiling and waving at him. He lifted his hand—
 
——
 
Niers and Foliana snapped back to their bodies, and reality resumed. Memories attempted to mesh and merge. Niers remembered being in two places at once—slightly jarring. The Titan froze, mid-step across his desk, and counted.
Twenty minutes. Interesting, I think we spent longer in the [Pavilion of Secrets], but it might have been trying to stop Foliana from getting in. Nothing of consequence had happened here—just attempts to locate the door. However, at that moment, Eirnos spun and pointed to the place where he’d emerged from.
“—swore I saw something! There!”
Eirnos pointed, and everyone whirled, but Foliana just appeared as Niers took a seat on the tables. Fraerlings leapt down, and Atmodeca signaled the soldiers forwards, but the two leaders of Forgotten Wing just eyed each other.
“That could have been a disaster, Foliana. Thank you. Sincerely, for once.”
“Stalker? Has the threat been neutralized? Did you do something?”
Foliana ignored the voices shouting at her. She nodded.
“Mm. I’m jealous. All my Skills aren’t that cool. All I can do is stab lots. Open locks.”
“And catch a door that no one else could see during a time slow. Or time accelerant? I suppose that was slightly impressive.”
“Get a chronomancy expert here, now! Lord Astoragon, who—?”
“Don’t you forget it. I think I heard something behind the lock.”
Niers’ eyes sharpened. Eirnos was screaming in his ear, but he half-rose.
“Really?”
“Yep. Weird. So what did you think?”
Niers stood there and stared into the distance. He saw that [Innkeeper]’s pained expression, thought, and then murmured.
“I don’t know her. I thought I understood her, but I don’t. Parts of her I get. She’s going through what you or I did. But she’s…”
“Report to me, Niers!”
Someone shook him repeatedly until Atmodeca picked up the Fraerlings and carried them off. Niers finished his thought.
“…unexpected. That’s all. No conclusions beyond that.”
Not riveting happiness. But not disappointment either. Just thoughts. About everything she’d said. Curiosity—distractions, really. Foliana eyed Niers, then she snorted softly.
“Decent food. Hmm. And she’s your size.”
She offered him a smile, and his heart leapt in his chest and nearly came out his mouth. Niers smiled back; he couldn’t help it. Then Foliana dropped her smile.
“You’re too old for her.”
“I—know that!”
“Way too old for her. Someone inform Commander Rozcal that the Titan is too old for a twenty-year old girl.”
Every Fraerling turned to gape at Niers, and he leapt to his feet.
“Foliana, you just won a lot of goodwill. But I will hurt you—”
She hopped away.
“This is inappropriate. I forbid this as the Commander of Forgotten Wing. Good night.”
She ducked the miniature [Fireball] he fired at her head and vanished to explain to a very sleepy [Chef] exactly what the sandwich and appetizers she wanted tasted like and the names such as ‘root beer’…but not at all what they were made of.
At least she went to bed smiling.
—Well, the Titan was grinning too hard to sleep.

10.44 Z (Pt. 1) (2025-07-27)

The city was filthy, even in the rain. All the water that constantly rushed down couldn’t clean the streets. The downpour pattered off old slate roofs, held together by Shield Spider chitin glue or, if you were unlucky, mere masonry that dripped and let rivulets of water form spiderwebs as they trickled down towards the ground. Cracks, accumulating over the years.
In the bad parts of the city, her city, you’d have pots and pans out to collect the water dripping down. Each time another leak appeared, you prayed the rainy season would end sooner—because there was no patching that kind of leak; it wouldn’t dry in this damn city until the spring rains ended. Too many and you’d have to clamber out onto a roof, yanking out tiles and slapping down mud and mortar, swearing and hoping the rain didn’t wash away the patch for a few days.
The glue. It was the damn Shield Spider glue. Back in the day, they’d had it, and it was waterproof, dried even when wet—expanded a bit with water until it was hard as stone. The glue was something they’d lost during the 2nd Antinium War.
Crafter’s District, overrun by undead when one of the Zombie Giants and a force of Draugr had made it over the walls. You remembered the screaming, even back then, if you’d survived it. The Necromancer’s forces being pushed out, then artillery spells pounding the city blocks over and over to erase the taint.
That’s how bad it had been. Every second, all the kids had thought they’d be dead, hiding in the safehouses and cellars, listening to the army fight. The first army, that was, the mercenaries. Bastards and brawlers who caused trouble—but who’d come back to lay down their lives for home.
Zel Shivertail, holding down the Necromancer himself. Fighting, they said, for hours on end while dodging spells, surrounded by undead, refusing to die. Those weren’t even Liscor’s greatest hours.
They’d survived the Antinium, seen the North come riding down in a charge to reverse the 1st Antinium War. Their city was the one that had produced General Sserys, the Drake who’d fought the Hives back. Their city…this backwater, this little city she called home.
Not many people remembered it, even though the 2nd Antinium War had been merely ten years ago. That was the dirty secret. Liscor had only had around a hundred thousand souls in it—‘big’ for some Drake cities, but a fraction of the size of a Walled City. A single floor of Pallass contained more people than Liscor by far.
Think on it.
How many do you think died to the plague the Necromancer had spread before his attack? During the siege itself, when anyone of fighting age had been drafted? Or before that? To the Antinium sieging the city?
Liscor’s army had been chewed up, reduced from their glory days under General Sserys. The population—likewise. Take Selys Shivertail, for instance. Both her parents, adventurers, had perished in the fighting. Her grandmother was the only other Shivertail in the city who’d survived outside of Zel himself. Yet by the time that Human, Erin Solstice, had appeared, the city was more or less the same size it had been.
How? Lots of babies? Don’t be stupid. It was how Liscor always had been—that’s what idiots forgot. It was the new faces coming in. The Silverfang Gnolls had shown up after the siege, and the Antinium had made their Hive ten years ago. With them, by the hundreds or dozens, had come Drakes.
Reinforcements. Though the Walled Cities never said it like that. Rather, they just encouraged surplus Drakes to move to Liscor. Gave them some gold or rounded up those without homes or deep roots and sent them off. To fill their border-city that no one really liked or visited to make sure there was that bulwark against the Humans of the north.
Liscor, which existed to be a deterrent, because the south needed it there. Not because it was all that fun to live in, isolated from the south by the Blood Fields, plagued by the rains in the springs, Rock Crabs, Shield Spiders…and then the Antinium. Liscor had always been new Drakes and survivors. The only thing that changed were the faces.
The muck remained.
 
——
 
In her office, the Drake blew smoke out of her mouth. She had no pipe or cigar; she didn’t need one. On days like this, when she didn’t have enough fresh air, it built up in her lungs. Imperfect blood is what her instructors had called it, as if it were her fault that she breathed more smoke than fire.
She hadn’t asked for this. The woman coughed, then concentrated and created another stream of grey smoke, expunging it from her lungs before it could reduce her into a mess of wheezing exhalations.
She gazed out across the dark, rainy streets that she knew better than the daylit ones. Her city. Yes…hers. More than the Antinium, more than the Humans or new visitors. She didn’t bear them ill will, but they didn’t know Liscor. They hadn’t grown up here seeing new faces come and go, surviving two Antinium Wars—even if she’d been truly a girl during the first one.
Watch Captain Zevara, though, was a Liscorian, born and raised here. Two wars, well, three if you counted Tyrion Veltras’ siege. Four, perhaps, with the Winter Solstice…Ancestors.
How many ‘originals’ were there? Selys? Selys had left, so that was one less kid from the old days. Drassi—no, she’d come at six or something after the 1st Antinium War. So she was close, but few Gnolls had been here before the 2nd Antinium War.
“Mister Soot. Right. He was one of the originals.”
The old [Mastermind] who’d used to run Liscor’s underworld, the bastard who had some of the Watch taking his gold, who armed the criminals and ran the southwest district, the poorest part of the city. It had all been in his claws—again, in the old days.
After the 1st Antinium War, she’d grown up with him being the Drake everyone knew not to cross, whose people would take anything you stole without question and give you a pittance for it.
He hadn’t remembered her, later, when she’d become a Guardswoman, but she’d always known him—his people had once taken a silver-backed mirror she’d stolen and tossed her down a manhole into the sewers. True, she’d stolen the mirror first when she was seven. The first theft that had landed her in the Watch’s lockup—and she hadn’t even gotten paid for it.
Poor Soot. She meant it too. The Drake lazily blew more smoke up to the ceiling and watched it percolate. No water was leaking from the sturdy Watch House roof. She felt like it should; she always felt like there would be rivulets of it dripping down, like her old apartment, a sheet of water running down a huge crack along one wall. Rats and little Sewer Slimes sometimes scurrying in and out, daring her to make something of it.
“Poor Mister Soot. You did everything right. You were the big Drake on the streets, the Dragon of the underworld. Flash, sharp, and smarts all in one package. You and your little magic wands with three charges in them. Untraceable; you fire a few spells, toss it, and walk off. You had it all. Then the 2nd Antinium War had to happen. Suddenly, Antinium were in the middle of your district, and there were Gnolls who smelled too well and too many outsiders. Then we get money to rebuild, the Watch needs re-bribing, and worse, the old Watch Captain gets ousted and you can’t bribe the new one. Me.”
Her. She smiled at that, though at the time, she recalled sleeping with one eye on the door to her apartment, a sword next to her pillow, sweating every time she led a patrol.
The good old days? Hah! The ‘good old days’ had sucked. It had been just Beilmark, Jeiss, Tiltem, Goirssa…back in those days, Relc was a surly [Soldier] and Klbkch had been the mysterious Antinium liaison no one understood, the Slayer.
Zevara hunted around in her desk, but she didn’t have anything to drink these days. So she poured some medicine for her throat into a cup and toasted them with it instead. Old guards, old crooks. They’d used to be closer together, harder to tell apart. These days, everything was so shiny; she’d made it so, but still.
She felt old.
She wasn’t even thirty yet, but this new Liscor felt odd to her. She still thought she could see the stains on the streets, but everyone acted like everything was on the up-and-up. Maybe it was and she was the only one who remembered the scum.
“You never figured it out, did you, Soot? I adapted better’n you. You…you hated the Gnolls, most of them. Never found a group you couldn’t bribe, but Krshia and her Silverfangs were already a tribe. Half just took your money to make you stop bothering them, and when you sent the bullies down to mess up the ones who resisted, they had bows and stuck together. The Antinium? Even worse.”
No bribing them. No messing with the Soldiers. She nodded to herself.
“Then came Relc, saluting everyone who sneezed, a Level 30 [Spearmaster]. And he put four of your people in the Healer’s clinic for trying to bribe him. You could deal with Relc, though; he wasn’t smart enough to find your guys. But it meant you couldn’t come after us as well. When Klbkch arrived…that’s when you lost it.”
Klbkch and Relc, one ice-cold, the other snapping at him, both hating each other’s guts, she was sure. But they were the only two high-level enough to contain the other—and as much as they’d disliked the other, Soot and the gangs were even better targets.
“Klbkch had his Listeners. No way to dodge them. At the time, we thought it was all his mystic Antinium powers or the Free Queen. Relc was still a soldier, and they busted how many gangs in the first year? Six? And then there was me. You never figured out how I knew all your people and warehouses.”
Good days. Well, again, they sort of sucked, but it had been better helping dismantle the groups she’d grown up being afraid of as a kid. Poor Soot. Truly—he’d gone from running the southwest district to being merely one of the bigger crime-lords in a city that increasingly needed him less.
“Then came Erin. You were already smaller-time, but she was the last straw. I think you didn’t ever meet her. You were smart enough for that, but she had the Antinium riled up. By the time they started patrolling, you were already desperate. The magic door? Windfall for you. You could have operated in Celum, Esthelm, a dozen cities. But it never worked out. When’d you vanish? Around then?”
She couldn’t remember, but she saw the problems. Zevara ticked them off on her claws, imagining Soot was sitting across the room from her in the interrogation chambers, glaring with his red-rimmed eyes and the spectacles he’d had to wear in his old age. Tight-mouthed, wishing he could have her killed.
“Erin. Maybe when she was low-level you could have roughed her up, but even then, Relc and Klbkch were visiting her. And she had that skeleton and Pisces—none of the old guard would mess with undead. Plus, Selys was her friend—no one tweaks old Tekshia’s tail. She killed the last gang leader who tried.”
The Watch Captain mused to herself, then snapped her fingers and almost laughed.
“The Antinium! Of course! You never could touch her, Soot! The moment she got interesting, she was friends with them, and you’d never risk that. I think you did try it—once. But Klbkch or the Antinium taught you there was no value in trying to deal with them, only death.”
Ah, so she’d been more than just ‘lucky’. And even after that? Soot might have wanted that magical door and thought it worth the risk, but it just kept getting worse for the old crook. She shook her head.
“Then Erin had Hobgoblins in her inn. Hobgoblins. You couldn’t get the door then, and after that? Invrisil, Pallass? Too much heat. Too many high-level people making Liscor safe. Grimalkin, Chaldion—dead gods. Poor Soot!”
The last thing he’d wanted was Liscor’s dungeon attracting adventurers to the city. Gold-ranks were hard to corrupt, and if they got mad at your people, your people died.
Poor Soot! Zevara sobered and pulled out a file. She had her feet up on her desk, and she stared at the file.
Mister Soot. She had so many documents on him that it was a briefcase unto itself. She’d written half of them. Damn. The old days when he’d been the Watch’s biggest problem. She put the file down and stared at the one on ‘Erin Solstice’.
Twice as big. Filled with wax seals, colored folders, covered with stamps denoting classified information sealed to higher clearances. All of it above her right to access, but since she’d written almost all the reports she knew what was inside.
“What got you, Soot? That was no way to go. Dead in one of your safe-rooms, not enough of you to even turn into an undead? Probably Bearclaw, but where the hell did Bearclaw go? Did she run off or did something get her? Klbkch taking care of business quietly? Not his style, but he changed…did one of Pallass’ Eyes clean up? Or was it…something else?”
She’d never figured out what had killed him. But she had been almost positive it had been his corpse that had been found. Him and his bodyguards had been torn to shreds, and, the [Guards] had thought, been eaten.
At the time Zevara had been on high alert, so she’d checked and they’d not found any hearts among all the dead Gnolls…but she had no proof. Nor had any more disappearances threatened Liscor. A copycat could do the same thing and pin it on the Raskghar.
Regardless, that had been the end of the old crook. Soot’s people had been so terrified they’d reported it to the Watch. And his gang had fallen apart; he hadn’t grabbed any of his assets. Old Soot would never leave and retire without his loot.
Perhaps it was time to put the file away, but Zevara kept it around for old times’ sake. A reminder of when things had been different. Not easier. Did she like today’s Liscor? She thought about it.
“Lots of Humans these days. Even a few Garuda, Dullahans from Pallass. I swear I saw a half-Elf the other day and almost shouted Ceria’s name. Hah. The city’s never had more gold, Soot. Even back when Sserys was in charge…we’ve got [Necromancers] in their village, and the city’s half again as large. Antinium on the streets, incorruptible, they say. Watch Commander Venim…I think I like these new days more than the ones when it was just you and me and the old damn Council and Olesm trying to hold things together with a shoelace for a budget and no powers.”
Dead gods, she’d forgotten Olesm doing the job no one wanted, scurrying around the Council’s offices as they passed stupid little laws. Zevara shook her head and knocked back the rest of her drink and coughed more smoke out.
“It’s way better, Soot. Crazy Humans and all. Even wars and all, probably. Back in the day, we just wondered when the next big thing would kill half the city. These days…well, the inn events are getting bigger, but no one’s killed a third of Liscor off. Yet.”
She knocked on her desk and sighed. Zevara’s head turned to the streets, the filthy streets she swore she could see trash on, overflowing sewers, piss streaking the walls—despite the fact that the sewers ran beautifully these days and she hadn’t seen that much trash at all. She felt like it was her city.
“Or maybe it’s my turn, Soot. Maybe it’s my turn.”
The Watch Captain put her empty cup on the desk and coughed. She wiped at her mouth and stared blankly ahead as the rain kept pattering down. Because she felt rather like an old Drake in a new city again, despite her age.
Out of place. Out of touch. No one had come running up her steps with an emergency all week. She had no outstanding reports that Venim hadn’t already marked as being handled. Zevara fiddled with her desk and put something on the table. A little present; she’d bought the best sharpening stone she could from Pallass, one that left a bit of magic on the edge of your blade.
A gift…for the newest Watch Captain of Liscor. Zevara had even had Beilmark’s name stencilled onto the bag, which she felt was classy.
Not that Zevara was quitting, mind you. It was just that Liscor was getting another Watch Captain. Two, in fact, who’d be under Watch Commander Venim. Senior Guardsman Ronss was going to make Watch Captain for the north district; Beilmark would get 3rd District. Two new Watch Houses, and a headquarters in the new city center. Way more control, way more efficiency for a bigger city. Zevara imagined her job would be easier. Fewer all-nighters and sleeping at her desk.
…She had no idea what to do. Maybe she should have taken the Watch Commander job. But she would have hated meeting with the Council more, along with more paperwork. The Drake put her feet up on the desk, a luxury, and stared at the rain.
She wished she could stop thinking about Soot.
 
——
 
Maybe she hated Liscor. Elsewise, why would she keep looking for dirt? This filthy city…
It wasn’t like it had ever been filled with gutters running with poo, or the stuff you heard about in bad Drake cities—and there were a few.
Worhall; wasn’t that the name of a Drake city that had gone bad? She remembered hearing about it. Sewers backed up. Breaches in the wall. Drakes leaving and carting off everything they could carry. Normally, it was all ‘Drakes don’t run’, stubborn ‘my home is my home, I’ll die before leaving it’. But even Drakes had their breaking points, and…when had that expression started, anyways? With General Sserys. Back in the day, Drakes would pack up for better cities.
That was the dream in smaller cities: that you’d save up, get rich doing something, and move to a Walled City where you’d be safe and retire in one of the Drake heartland capitals. As a kid, Zevara had had the same dream of moving to Pallass one day. But things were changing.
Zevara didn’t know other Drake cities, she guessed. She knew Esthelm more than other Drake cities; she’d been there several times as a youth, before Erin and the magical door, again. It was the kind of city that you went to as a Drake, working up your courage to drink at a Human bar to say you could, or where you worked mining jobs if you had to be out of Liscor for a while. It wasn’t like Esthelm’s folk had gone at Liscorians the moment they saw Drakes, but you stuck with other Drakes, and sometimes there was a rumble…you avoided the other city for a while after that.
Few deaths. But Liscor hadn’t been multicultural until the Gnolls came along. Krshia Silverfang—not that anyone had known she was in charge until later—and the Gnolls. Gnolls and Antinium changing the city into one that wouldn’t chase Erin Solstice away. Lism hadn’t been pleasant, but it could have been worse. A lot worse.
Bad cities. Had Liscor been one? Close, perhaps. Worhall with the infrastructure issues. Cellidel sounded bad too. Rotten to the core. All the Watch officers mistreating Gnolls. Riots in the city. It had been a mistake to send Relc there, but they’d been so upbeat about having a Senior Guardsman—she’d thought it was respect.
Liscor? Not that bad. Surely. Surely…and then Zevara realized if it was on the cusp of being a ‘bad city’ for her; back then, she was who Liscor had been made for.
The Gnolls. The Antinium. It had definitely been a bad one to the first waves who’d come there. She felt a pang in her heart. Restlessly, the Watch Captain had to stand, unable to sit as her conscience prickled. As bad as Cellidel for Antinium.
“Damn it. I can’t stay here.”
 
——
 
Zevara took a night patrol out on the city in the same quiet mood she’d been in. Regular [Guards], a mixed patrol. Three Drakes, one Human, an Antinium, one Gnoll.
She only knew one of them well: Tkrn’s old partner, Junior Guardswoman Jerci, who’d made full Guardswoman recently. They marched along with Zevara, calling out items of interest, trying to act smart and look good. They must have thought she was testing them, like the sharp Antinium patrol from last time. Zevara patted the shoulder wet Gnoll barking orders after three blocks of marching in the rain.
It was late. Liscor’s buildings loomed like grey monoliths in the rain, stone blocks illuminated by soft light in places, but dark. Damn dark. The city had torches for night lighting, but not in the spring. She nodded to the young Gnoll woman who was trying not to shiver. Young…she was probably only eight years younger than Zevara. But she seemed to treat Zevara like the Watch Captain was Beilmark’s age.
“You can relax, Guardswoman Jerci. We’ll just wake half the block if we keep shouting. Not a lot happens on a night shift—if we’re lucky. Let’s just do the rounds.”
“Er, yes, Watch Captain. Should we be on the lookout for anything? It’s pretty dark, yes?”
They all had lanterns, and Zevara snorted as the squad shone the lights around.
“Stow everything. Let’s walk in the dark.”
“That’s not protocol, Watch Captain—”
One of the Drakes began and shut up as his compatriot elbowed him. Zevara glanced at the Antinium, but this was a Worker who hadn’t been as noisy as the all-Antinium squad.
“It used to be the Watch went around in the dark. Light ruins your nightvision, so you kept your head on a swivel and moved silent. With streets this dark, we’ll see better without lanterns.”
It was true, the patrol realized as they followed her. Without the glare of the lanterns, they could see everything equally. It was eerier, but soon they were all moving well in the dark, especially the Antinium.
“What’re your names, squad?”
“Er, Junior Guardsman Nen, Junior Guardswoman Eissa, Junior Guardsman Trolle, Junior Guardsman Bootstrap, and Junior Guardsman Thorton, Watch Captain.”
Nen introduced his compatriots, then the Antinium, ‘Bootstrap’, and Thorton. Zevara glanced down; sure enough, the Antinium had bootstraps. Which was rather funny, because most Antinium didn’t have shoes. If they were issued boots at all, they were without strings because Workers and especially Soldiers had trouble lacing them up. Klbkch had managed, but he was the exception.
She nodded at them.
“Walk slow and don’t shout. If you see something actually suspicious, nudge the [Guard] next to you and signal your leader; in this case, me or Guardswoman Jerci. Got it? Normally, you rookies wouldn’t be on patrol for a night watch. Not in the full dark.”
She kept her pace slow, strolling down the street, avoiding the streams of water rushing into the gutters. It was hard to hear anything over the roar of rain and water, but she could pick up the footsteps of her squad, and her eyes were focused on everything and nothing at once. It was sudden movement or inconsistencies in the shadows around her she was scanning for.
Perhaps it was her mood. Zevara hadn’t led a patrol out in…ages. Not like this; she only took command when there was a fight, a monster, or trouble. Then she went with hard-hitters to The Wandering Inn or to the spot and restored order. Leading a patrol?
Again, it wasn’t the same as the Antinium squad, and the rookies felt it.
“We could move faster, Watch Captain. We’re no slouches. We heard you covered half the city with the Antinium patrol yesterday.”
Jerci murmured after a moment. Zevara just ambled forwards, slower than the patrol’s normal march. The Gnoll was biting her lip, clearly worried they were being treated like slouches.
“That was me seeing how well they knew the job. And them being too enthusiastic to rein in, Guardswoman Jerci. It’s late. We have six hours on our feet. Keep it slow. Like I said, loud boots mean you’re warning everyone you’re coming. In the old days, the Watch always moved this fast.”
A long shift, even if they were allowed to break every two hours for fifteen minutes. Jerci nodded, but her eyes darted to Zevara.
“You mean…when you were a Junior Guardswoman, Watch Captain?”
“Hm? Oh, not even that. Five years ago, even, this was how we operated. No lanterns.”
The female Drake raised her hand. She had russet red scales and a stubby snout, and she held her spear like an amateur, but she seemed eager. Another oddity…no, only to the mindset Zevara was in today. She was trapped in the past. The rains brought back memories, trickling down.
“How’d you catch anyone in the dark, Watch Captain? It’s impossible to see anyone breaking into a house unless there’s a scream or breaking glass, pardon my saying so. I can’t wait for the new, magical lantern-posts that the Council’s promising to install.”
“Magical lanterns, what, on every street?”
Zevara remembered that in a report, vaguely, but since Venim had taken over, she didn’t have to report to the Council so often. The [Guards] peered at each other and nodded. She laughed.
“Back in the day, that would have been a waste of gold.”
“Why, Watch Captain?”
Nens asked blankly. The Drakes were the chatty ones. She guessed they were all native Liscorians; the Human, Thorton, was their age, but he seemed warier of speaking up around her, as for Bootstrap…the Antinium was listening, but kept his head on a swivel, antennae twitching. Only he and Thorton avoided the streams of water like she did, perhaps because he’d noticed, perhaps because he just feared it.
She spoke over the boots splashing in the gutters.
“They’d be stolen, of course. You couldn’t put a torch in a holster in some parts of the city without someone taking it.”
Nens snorted.
“A torch? That’s not even worth, what, a copper for a spent torch, Watch Captain.”
“No, but twelve might be worth a few coppers. Wood’s expensive—or was. The door makes it so much cheaper, but there was a time even a cheap wooden chair could be worth a silver piece or more even resold. So long as it wasn’t utter scrapwood.”
“Hah. What did everyone sit on then?”
She gave Nens a curious look.
“Stone. Or those old Shield Spider chairs, you know, the shiny black ones with polish, like lacquer?”
“Those ugly things? My grandma has one in her home.”
Nens laughed, but Zevara just shrugged.
“Wood was expensive. Traders used to come down the road with huge wagons and just sell entire trees off at a killing. It was a decent job; you’d just ride up north past Esthelm, find a forest, and hire a [Woodcutter] or do the job yourself. Then come back, drop the trees off, and count your gold. Humans from Celum did it; it was the only time we ever saw them. Big [Woodcutters] who’d brawl with our army’s [Soldiers] in the street. I once saw a hundred of ‘em go at it. It took half the Day Watch to break it up.”
“I remember that, Watch Captain. I was nine when it happened. The Council banned Humans from the city for a month, didn’t they?”
Trolle surprised Zevara, but then, he was probably twenty…she nodded. Did he remember the old days? No, he was shooting her an interested glance like the others. She supposed being a kid was still different to being a [Guard] back then, and eight years…he didn’t remember a time much before the 2nd Antinium War. A different Liscor back then. And a different one before the 1st Antinium War. Even after the 1st Antinium War, they’d been on the rise as ‘Sserys’ city’.
“So how’d you stop crimes in the dark, Watch Captain?”
Eissa wanted to know, and Zevara rolled her shoulders, self-conscious.
“We didn’t. Not much. You’d walk around like this, in the quiet, and if someone shouted ‘thief’, you maybe went after whomever it was. Usually, they were gone too fast on nights like these. Murder or screams for help—those you ran for. And you hoped to the Ancestors you didn’t run into a gang.”
“A gang? Doing what? Some big heist?”
“Just…out, Guardswoman Eissa. Trolle, you remember that, don’t you? Remember the Soot gang walking down some streets?”
“I, uh, I grew up in the northwest district, Watch Captain. I don’t remember many gangs.”
She twisted around to get a look at Trolle. Then he was from a richer family; north was where the biggest personal mansions and money was. Jewelers, magic-users, and the like. And he wanted to be a [Guard]?
“Well. I remember them. Jerci? Eissa? Nens?”
They all shook their heads. Jerci scratched her chin.
“I remember being a cub and there used to be some times when all the Gnolls on the block would come out because there was trouble, but no gangs.”
“You’re all too young. Trust me, there were times when an entire gang would come out and just walk a street, and the Watch cleared out. Too many, too high-level, too ready to kill. Other cities have worse problems with gangs. Invrisil, for one. That’s why you watch yourself if a group of out-of-city visitors comes in. Got it?”
They nodded. Because she had that antsy feeling from the old days, Zevara snapped.
“Don’t walk in the gutters either. Walk where I’m walking, see? You’re splashing too loud.”
They checked their feet and shuffled after her. Zevara murmured.
“No torches. Fewer guards. Fewer good guards.”
“Dead gods, Watch Captain. You make it sound like we were a Human city once, all bad Watch! There’s this Gnoll kid in the Junior Guards—one of Relc’s trainees, Vok—who talks about Cellidel, where Sergeant Relc went. They have a bad Watch. But ours?”
She smiled to herself.
“Drake Watches have more money and, generally, better training, but it’s all subjective, Guardsman Nens. There are Human cities where it’s safer at night because the right gang holds your street. Isn’t that right, Guardsman Thorton?”
He jumped slightly, and his voice was husky when everyone turned to him.
“Th-that’s right, Watch Captain. How’d you know…?”
“You walk like a streetkid or someone who knows how. And your head’s swivelling right. Which city?”
“Remendia, Watch Captain.”
“All the way up there? Why to Liscor?”
He shrugged, self-conscious.
“Seems like there’s more money here then old Remendia. ‘Twas a bad winter. Lots of hungry people. I heard there was food here and in the Unseen Empire, and my old man flipped a coin on which one we were bound for.”
“Oh, so your family’s here. Working in 3rd District?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. Builders, though half have signed up for work in the smithies.”
“They always need hands. Councilwoman Raekea’s been trying to get us mining the mountains more. Though Esthelm’s got Master Pelt.”
Nens broke in excitedly.
“Who d’you think is gonna win the elections, Watch Captain? All the challengers or the current Council? Everyone’s saying it might be better to replace them, but who’d want to replace Lism?”
She turned her head so he couldn’t see her expression by moonlight, then spoke neutrally.
“Not my place to interfere or comment, Guardsman Nens.”
“Oh, come on, Watch Captain! If you said something—half the city knows you’re still the Watch Captain, even with that new Watch Commander.”
She snorted softly.
“You make it sound like I’m so important.”
“You were the one who fought off Skinner and the undead—and carried us through the siege, the monster attacks, and, and—”
“I’m not even Level 40, Guardsman Nens.”
“You’re not, Watch Captain?”
They seemed astounded at this. Zevara skirted round an open sewer, peering down inside, but there were no Sewer Slimes all bunched up—back in the day, you’d pluck out their filthy mana cores, give them a rinse, and sell them to the Mage’s Guild. She poked the opening with her sheathed sword anyways.
“Do they still teach you to poke the sewer grates with a spear every time you pass?”
“No, Watch Captain. Should we…?”
“…Forget it. No, I’m not Level 40. Nor was I as instrumental as you think. Liscor survived these things, but it was adventurers, the Free Antinium—not me single-handedly slaying Face-Eater Moth Mothers. Dead gods, I’m twenty-eight.”
“You are? My Mom swore you were her age, and she’s forty-f—”
Nens shut up when the other trainees nudged him. Jerci avoided Zevara’s eyes as the Watch Captain glared back. She wondered if she appeared that old. Dead gods, maybe she did need to take care of her appearance.
“If I…seem important, it’s just because I survived, Guardsman. From the time before the inn got here. Just like Strategist—I mean, Strategos Olesm. Aside from the army, there were a lot of vacancies that needed filling. Lots of dead Drakes. Craftspeople, leaders, Guildleaders—all died during the 1st and 2nd Antinium Wars.”
They nodded at that. Zevara took them down off the main street, heading westwards. Through old stomping grounds. These days, the eastern district was getting as important as the northern district, since a lot of traffic came from the north via the roads.
The southwestern district where the Antinium had their Hive had always been poorest. Of course, even here, things were on the up, but the streets were the same. She led the patrol without needing to look up her route, and they saw people hurrying around, night crews, some adventurers heading out to the dungeon—all of them seemed surprised when the Watch patrol came upon them without lanterns.
“I feel like a criminal myself. Uh, sorry Watch Captain!”
Nens muttered, and Zevara chuckled.
“We need to take the pulse of the city, Nens. The good parts and the bad.”
“By walking around at night, Watch Captain? I get the part about not being ambushed, but…what’s going without a lantern do about the rest?”
“Ever tried to catch a rat in your apartment, Nens? Or a bug? When you raise a lantern, what does it do? The louder you clomp…well, this is the Antinium district. It’s always been both crime and safety. No one messes with the Black Tide. Though I’ve heard the Antinium now have money to spend.”
That made Zevara turn back and glance at the Antinium trudging through the rain after the group. An Antinium with a job. No kids, no vices like drinking, but he might well buy an item in the market. An Antinium like a person; so odd to have more than just Klbkch.
“Everything good in the Antinium district, Junior Guardsman Bootstrap?”
He visibly hesitated at the question and cocked his head to one side before replying.
“The district? Of course, Watch Captain. More money has come into the Hive from all the building work. Some of it is being paid to new Workers as a result. The Painted Antinium and [Crusaders] also generate—and cost—more. The Hive has never been more active.”
“Are all the Workers like you, Bootstrap?”
Trolle asked curiously, and Bootstrap instantly shook his head.
“I am an Individual Antinium. Most are not. Even Autonomous Antinium are very…simple. It is a blessing, a privilege, to be more.  But it means more problems.”
“Like what?”
Zevara’s neck spines rose slightly as she glanced back at Bootstrap, and he sighed.
“Taxes.”
“Oh, taxes.”
The entire squad grumbled about them. Zevara waited for more, but Bootstrap just saluted her with one hand.
“I am not as vigorous as Bug Squad, Captain Zevara, but I enjoy my job. All is well in the Hive areas. Our biggest job is breaking up fights over new pets. Or the dungeon. There are suits of enchanted armor that come out—but this is an Antinium issue. I can think of nothing that affects us besides that.”
“Very good, Guardsman Bootstrap. You just tell Jerci or a Senior Guard if anything does come up. C’mon, we’ll investigate the spots I know.”
And so they did. It was the back alleys, the smaller side streets that Zevara was after. There you could still find Drakes and Gnolls—and Humans too, she had no doubt—searching for an easy mark, whether it was through pickpocketing or violence. Or perhaps someone smuggling drugs in, or just someone searching for an abandoned street so they could enter a shop and grab what they could.
As they walked, Zevara thought something was wrong about how Bootstrap had said that. She believed him, of course, and she could see that he was right, but it struck her that an Antinium might not have the best read on his own Hive. Klbkch hadn’t, but…
Well, getting your own eyes on things mattered. So when they came to a particularly decrepit street, Zevara held up a claw to have them stop. This was [Guardswoman] work, not [Watch Captain] work. A distinction that might not matter to the squad, but it did to Zevara.
She spoke softly. More to herself, now.
“This probably isn’t good training. Watch Commander Venim’s put together a solid regimen for new [Guards]. I’m taking you around like we used to do. Pallass’ Watch is loud and moves fast. Liscor’s old one moved at a slouch. Right, Thorton?”
The Human man spoke up.
“Right, Watch Captain. Walk slow, don’t stir up trouble. Let the gangs work unless someone gets killed.”
“Exactly.”
“We really used to do that, Watch Captain?”
Nens was outraged. Zevara just gave him a silent gaze as smoke trickled from her mouth.
“Sometimes, you’re outnumbered, Guardsman Nens. And you don’t know, if you blow a whistle, if anyone’s going to come running or whether you can trust the squad at your back.”
She spotted a familiar bar up ahead, and it was Jerci who murmured.
“Is that why you ousted the old Watch Captain, um, Watch Captain Zevara? You were the youngest Drake to ever be named Watch Captain in Liscor’s history.”
Zevara didn’t look over her shoulder as the rest of the patrol turned to Jerci, then to her with clear astonishment.
“That’s old…that’s history, Guardswoman Jerci. The Watch needed changing. And so it has, for the better. I just feel like Watch Commander Venim’s the best leader for the times.”
And I’m tired. Complacent, maybe. With Erin gone, I just let The Wandering Inn solve its crises. There’s no Soot for me to battle. I can’t stop Goblin Kings or magical spells from the heavens. Maybe I’m the old dog unable to learn a new trick, even with a [Beast Tamer] around. Maybe I should get a dog. Take more time off.
Didn’t Elirr have this pet Frost Wyvern he was training? That would be a challenge. Zevara peered at the squad as they stopped in front of a battered tavern. Nens squinted up to stare at the name.
“The Corused Steer? Shouldn’t that be ‘The Corused Deer’?”
“Nope. Whomever came up with the name didn’t know that steer referred to cows. You ever been to a dive bar, Nens?”
“One or two, Watch Captain. And we’ve broken up bar fights before.”
That was common work for the Watch. Zevara nodded at him.
“Good. This isn’t a dive bar. It’s a hellhole bar. One, two steps nastier. Stay with the squad, don’t look anyone in the eyes too long, and don’t take too much interest in what people are doing. Stick to the door.”
They gulped. In truth, Zevara doubted it was going to be a problem. The Corused Steer had bloody fights, and she’d been in a few—but that had, again, been the old days.
Still, when she eased the door open, the buzz of voices in the decently-busy bar went low, then quiet when they saw her uniform. Someone moved out of the shadows; a big Drake missing half his neck-spines.
“No one called for the Watch, Guardswoman…”
“We’re just looking around. Is [Barman] Bobble here?”
There was a grunt from the Drake, who gave her a second eye.
“You know Bobble? Hey—”
The ‘hey’ was when the rest of the squad pushed in. At this, several patrons shifted in their seats; they were arrayed around the room at circular tables, drinks in hand. Puffer smoke ran throughout the room, laced with sharper smells—probably not Dreamleaf, since those here would want to keep sharp. It smelled like Mage’s Whiskervine; that pumped your mind up, then left you stupid once it wore off.
Zevara spotted dice on some tables, the old booths with the red curtains along one wall. A pair of scantily-clad Drakes stopped serving drinks and moved back towards the bar with instantaneous reflexes. Zevara raised a hand as the [Bouncer] clearly debated whether or not to try to get them to leave. Back in the old days, one of them would have already tossed a member of the squad out. Or be waiting for the regulars to do the job for them. The Drake spoke to the room.
“We’re just having a look ‘round. No one’s aiming to change the straw tonight. It’s wet, and I want a drink. Is Bobble there? Give me two claws of Firebreath Whiskey.”
Jerci’s mouth opened as Zevara made for the bar. The rest of the squad watched as Zevara tossed some coins onto the bar, and the patrons settled down. It was how she spoke, more casually, abandoning the crisp accent of the Watch Captain. It told them she knew the score. No one talked about straw in the Steer without knowing what that meant.
The [Bartender] who served her the cheap whiskey eyed her, not recognizing Zevara, but the moment the older [Barman], Bobble, came out, his eyes widened.
“Is that Zevara? Senior—no, Watch Captain Zevara?”
Every head snapped around again, and Zevara sighed. She saw the relaxing patrons suddenly turn to the doors and begin eyeing windows, as if ready to leap out of them. She hugged Bobble one-armed; he was a big Drake with an eyepatch and a cleaver for a left hand—he sliced up some ice and slid it into her drink as if the chipped metal cleaver were as nimble as digits. He was fast with the cleaver-hand too. Very fast. She still remembered a streak of blood on the old bar’s counter running from a Drake with a cut throat as Bobble shoved the body to the floor.
The floor…with straw on it. Straw that absorbed spills and messes. It wasn’t something most places did these days. But it soaked up a lot. Blood, among other things.
By now, Jerci had put two and two together and realized that this was one of the bars that the Watch sometimes got called to for the really nasty fights. The ones where you sent Senior Guards and told the rest of the squad to put on chainmail. Where you’d call for Relc and Klbkch. She was giving Zevara nervous stares as Zevara took the drink that Bobble served her on the flat of his cleaver.
“Bobble, you scalerat. Are you trying to get my rookies stabbed? Reassure these goodfolk that I’m not about to have the Watch bust down the doors.”
Bobble raised his voice and grinned, gaps in his teeth, around the bar.
“Don’t anyone sweat. Watch Captain Zevara’d never hug me if she was coming in for someone. She and me go way back, back to when she was a Junior Guardswoman. She knows better than to come into the Steer without four full squads of backup if there was trouble.”
Zevara snorted softly.
“If there was trouble, I’d get a Wand of Fireballs and blast this place down from the outside. I’d be reducing deaths in the city and making it cleaner.”
“Guardswoman Zevara, you wound me.”
Bobble laughed phlegmily and spat onto the ground as if to prove that the Steer had never been cleaner, which was probably true. Zevara took a gulp of the whiskey, wiped her mouth, and put the cup back.
It took a strong stomach to take down drinks here. If the rotgut liquor didn’t put you on your tail, the unhygienic glasses would—but she reckoned she’d drunk enough here to have an immunity if anyone did.
“So what brings you to the Steer, Watch Captain? Something tells me you don’t need information on what’s going on around here, not for the Watch Captain. Or is that shiny fellow from Pallass taking all the info? The Watch’s never appeared sharper, you know. Half my customers complain about it. You’ll be running me out of business next.”
Bobble eyed Zevara as he pretended to polish the bar with a rag that was probably making it dirtier. Zevara snorted.
“The Watch doesn’t come here, Bobble. Unless it’s to break up a fight. Venim’s no idiot. He’s not going to crack down on the Steer—not unless he wants more injured [Guards] and all the trouble you get in here across other bars in the city.”
“Well, just so long as you tell him that. These newcomers, they don’t know our city, Watch Captain. Even that Sergeant Relc is too keen to change things up. No respect for the old stuff.”
The [Barman] gave Zevara a grin, and she thought she smelled something on his breath, now. Probably Golucky or something that’d keep him from feeling his scars and in a good mood. He traded in drugs and took a cut of the gambling here—Liscor didn’t restrict gambling to designated locations, but gambling for gold was supposed to be only a single table in a tavern. She bet there were high-stakes games in some back rooms—high stakes games with high consequences for cheaters.
But Bobble was no kingpin of crime. Even the name—Drakes had stupid names, but ‘Bobble’ was a hard sell for a gang leader, even for them. She smiled at him, genuine.
“Relc’s keen to protect kids and keep the city safe from real monsters, Bobble. So long as you don’t have someone who’s dragging their tail through the sewers in your fine establishment, he’ll never come calling. You know that. What, are you that worried of Venim? Pallass has plenty of crime.”
Bobble shrugged, clearly reassured as he poured a drink for himself. All the patrons were undoubtedly listening in to their chat. He tossed his cloth sideways at a Gnoll, who jumped and probably caught a venereal disease.
“People talk. Hey, stop leaning in! Can’t I catch up with an old—friend? D’you recognize Maxius here, Zevara? Or any of the old faces?”
She waved a claw.
“Most probably changed since I was a Senior Guardswoman. Maxius…knives, right?”
The Gnoll pulled the cloth off his nose and tried not to gag.
“Bobble, that thing could kill a skunk. Knives, Watch Captain? I may have sold one or two over the years. I remember you—”
She grinned at him as he did the innocent game with a twinkle in his eyes.
“Yes, yes. You used to sell knives before a big fight in the Steer. It got so bad that every time you opened your coat, anyone with sense went for the nearest window.”
“Watch Captain, I’m entirely respectable these days. Now, I have a little storefront down Cherishing Way.”
Where you could get a few tweaks for your knife, she had no doubt, from a serrated edge to a bit of poison or file off identifying initials or tracking spells off a stolen blade. She tipped her cup to him and took another gulp.
“Life’s treated you well, then?”
“Not as well as you, Watch Captain. We were all very proud, you know, when you made Watch Captain. Bobble served out free drinks. We all said you’d be coming with the Watch any moment to bust this place down.”
Maxius grinned at her, and she rolled her eyes. Zevara sat with her back to the bar, inspecting the room.
“I’m just here to reminisce. You can stop [Pumping for Information], Maxius.”
His smile slipped.
“Just a curious Gnoll, Watch Captain. One might think you were after someone here.”
“Soot’s dead. Who else should I be going after?”
Maxius and Bobble traded gazes, and Zevara’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“—Unless there’s a bigger player back in Liscor?”
“There’s some…Brothers. Rather interesting fellows. You know about them, Watch Captain?”
She thought of Normen, blazing with fire, and raised her brows. Or Wilovan and Ratici—
“Invrisil’s gang. What about them? I know they’re in Liscor. I thought they just had a few streets.”
“More’n a few, Watch Captain. They’re getting big fast. Very strident fellows they are, too. All smiles until you do the wrong thing on their turf. Mostly, they just talk, but if you cross their lines—they’re rather direct.”
From the way Bobble licked his lips, he didn’t like what he’d seen. Few things made the Drake nervous, so Zevara blinked.
“I had no idea they scared the gangs around here so bad. What happened to the old tough attitudes? You cross me and we’ll feed you to the fishes in the spring, the Shield Spiders anytime else?”
She meant it as a light jest, but Bobble spat again.
“Easy for you to say, Guardsw—Captain. You’ve never seen them take their hellcursed hats off. Between them and the Antinium, it’s hard to make a living.”
She gave him a sardonic look.
“I sincerely doubt the Watch would make things impossible to live around here, even if we were four times larger, Bobble. Don’t cry healing potions to me.”
“I’m just saying, Watch Captain, if there were anyone you wanted to watch—things are quieter without Soot. But there’s always another Soot, if you catch my drift.”
“Not the same as him, though. Seeing you back here reminds me of the old schemer. I almost thought you were going to ask where he was and have Relc, Klbkch, Jeiss, and Beilmark kick down the doors like the old days. Five of you versus the entire pub.”
Maxius murmured, and Zevara raised her glass. They chinked them. She took down the rest of her drink.
“Those days sucked Creler eggs, Maxius. You cry about the Brothers, but they keep their noses cleaner than you two. Sadly. I’ll check on them, maybe. But I was really just visiting old haunts.”
The [Barman] chuckled.
“Most of the new blood’s scared to look you in the eye. Once word gets around you came back here, I expect all the old names will come circling if you wanted to come back.”
“And get stabbed through the earhole? No thanks, Bobble. Your drink’s just as foul as I remember. Try not to poison anyone tonight, alright?”
Zevara strode to the doors, and Bobble called after her, laughing.
“As you say, Guardswoman! And that, you young hatchlings, is the Watch Captain. The real Watch Captain, who used to be as tall as my knee. Then a Guardswoman who survived Soot and all the old bastards. Slept with one eye open—you ever think about tiptoeing up on her, or Beilmark, and you remember that. And that half the regulars’ll slit your throat for thinking it. We need someone who knows the score. Not too crooked, but not so straight she falls and cuts herself.”
Zevara rolled her eyes at that as she sauntered out of the bar, not too fast. Walking the walk—she wished it didn’t make her happy to hear Bobble’s rare compliments about her, even if it was all fake Dragonbreath.
Not too crooked, not too straight. They liked that she respected the Steer and kept her people from going into places where they’d get hurt. But perhaps…that was a sign she was still a mucky Guardswoman, and they needed Venim, who came from a Walled City where things were done right.
The Watch didn’t teach new Guards to let people off with warnings. They had strict rules about bribery, drinking on duty, and accepting gifts. All the hallmarks of the looser policing that Zevara had hated and tried to stamp out were gone in the next generation. But that meant, in time, she too became the fossil…
 
——
 
The patrol gave her wide-eyed gazes when they left The Corused Steer. Zevara didn’t say much for a block or two. Then she sighed.
“Bobble’s killed a lot of people with that cleaver in hand. Don’t mistake him or the Gnoll, Maxius—they’re old, and both are over Level 30. They can kill as easy as blinking, but I doubt you’ll ever see them except as innocent bystanders. They know better. As for the Steer, don’t go in and start trouble. If you get called for a brawl or a murder, get in, get out, and only sniff around if you have a lot of backup.”
“I smelled some illicit substances in there, Watch Captain…”
Jerci began nervously, and Zevara nodded.
“So did I. Unless we had Relc and a full squad armed up, I wouldn’t go after someone unless they were snorting Selphid’s Dust in my face. Half will be out the windows before you sneeze. They’re fast with blades and other nasty tricks in there. You need a bar like the Steer around.”
“May I ask for clarity as to why, Watch Captain? If this objectionable bar were burnt, as you previously iterated, would it not cut down on criminal acts and thus raise safety for the city?”
She grinned ruefully at the question. Then realized it was Bootstrap who’d spoken for the second time. The other [Guards], except for Trolle, nodded in agreement, and she replied.
“That’s not bad logic, Guardsman Bootstrap. But it doesn’t work that way. In practice, it would only mean all the criminals find another bar to go to. They’d spread out their mischief, not contain it in one place. The Watch can never be everywhere. Having places where the gangs can make mischief for each other and clean it up…is a necessity. Even in Pallass.”
She hoped they weren’t taking the wrong lessons from this. Zevara quickened her pace, guiding them back to the main streets, regretting her decision already. If it had gone bad, she’d have put them in a dangerous spot. But they had to know about dangerous things too. If the Watch clanked about all professional like, then they wouldn’t be sharp when they had to cross blades in a dark alley…
They were heading down the main street that ran down the entire city from north gate to south when a bunch of spotlights focused on them. Zevara shielded her eyes and thought, for a second, it was a passing wagon with too many lanterns. Then she heard a shout.
“Halt! In the name of the Watch!”
“Huh?”
Then she heard the jangle and stomp of boots in water—six [Guards] were coming at her fast. Her squad halted, and she held up a hand.
“What’re you—”
“They don’t have their lanterns! They’re fakes! Get them!”
Before she knew it, a second group of [Guards] was rushing them, batons drawn, blowing their whistle. Zevara’s mouth opened as she saw a Gnoll running at her, truncheon in hand.
“We’re on patrol—drop that!”
Whistles blew, and Jerci was shouting too, but what Zevara saw was the truncheon swinging for her head. She reacted instantly. She drew her sword and inhaled.
Her lungs, always itchy, seemed to smolder, and she concentrated, forming a murky ball of smoke and flames in her mind’s eye. Then she spat it out her lungs.
It burned as it came out, a roiling cloud of sparks and smoke. It made the Gnoll waving the truncheon yelp and stumble backwards, flailing at the air.
“Dragonbreath! Dragonbreath—”
She strode forwards, kicked the [Guard] in the knee, and hopped out of the way of a two-handed swing. Zevara clacked her teeth together, spraying sparks—a trick that made the Gnoll flinch. When he brought up his truncheon, shielding his face, she hooked a leg and knocked his weapon away. Down he went, the wooden club clattering on the ground.
“They got Jorrey! Form up! Form—”
She parried a club’s swing, fast, and threw an elbow into a helmeted face. That hurt because she caught the edge of a faceguard and cut her scales. But whomever she’d hit stumbled back. Cursing, Zevara feinted to her left, keeping two more figures away from her with jabs—the fallen Gnoll tried to grab her leg. He got a boot in the face and then a second kick to the stomach.
With her off-hand, Zevara was reaching for a baton of her own. She had just drawn it and thrown it so it spun and thwocked into the forehead of a Drake, who dropped, when Jerci finally got one of their lanterns working.
“Stop, you idiots! It’s us and the Watch Captain!”
She shone a light over Zevara, who stood above the downed Gnoll, another [Junior Guardsman] lying on the floor, clutching at his helmet, and the third who was holding their jaw. Zevara froze, no longer fighting on instinct, and she saw a second and third Watch patrol running their way, answering the alarm whistles.
In fact, even the gate-guards shone down a [Light] spell on her as she closed her eyes. The little result of her patrol was three [Guards] down for the night, one with a mild concussion, and one very embarrassed Watch Captain.
 
——
 
“Injury of fellow members of the Watch. Drinking on duty, failure to use lanterns on patrol, deviation from patrol route, failure to apprehend criminal elements on patrol—at least seventeen cases of narcotics, high-stakes gambling without regulation, and…illicit knife-selling?”
At this last line, Watch Commander Venim peered up from the report with a confused expression, and Zevara, who’d been staring at a framed Magical Picture of his daughter, drew her eyes back down and spoke.
“I think that might have been a miscommunication with my patrol, Watch Commander. It was a Gnoll I encountered at the Steer—the bar we visited. He sells knives, some of which are probably banned, but I know he performs a number of illicit services. I’m told he has a shop these days. I knew him back when I was a regular guard.”
“I see. The report states that Junior Guardsman Jorrey saw a group wearing the Watch’s insignia and took you for imposters. There was a heist of the Jeweler Guild’s storefronts where the perpetrators escaped with fake uniforms at night. He rushed you—whereupon the incident occured.”
Venim was trying not to smile. Zevara was red under her scales as she held herself at full attention. She hadn’t had to report to a superior for nearly a decade, and she didn’t really enjoy the feeling, but someone had to be held accountable for last night, and that was her.
“That’s more or less correct, Watch Captain. He rushed me too fast to hear me shouting, and I reacted on reflex.”
“I see. Tell me, Zevara…why didn’t you make the report yourself?”
Venim was in his late thirties and still fit and capable, but more of a desk-Drake than an active [Guard]. He’d been one of Pallass’ Watch Captains assigned to each floor, but the opportunity to work in Liscor as a Watch Commander had drawn him to the city. It suited him; he had a comfortability with managing huge numbers of people, and he was good with people.
For instance, he used Zevara’s name in private, which she could never do, even with Beilmark while they were at work. Beilmark, who’d known her since Zevara was a rookie—heck, Beilmark had been a regular guardswoman at the time and taught Zevara tricks. Zevara tried to relax a bit.
“I, uh, thought it best the patrols write up the events as practice, Commander Venim. Someone should be held accountable. Even the Watch Captain.”
He nodded.
“Your entire record is consistent with that, Zevara. No one’s above the law—it’s an interpretation of our class that not even Pallass’ Watch always takes.”
He grimaced at that, then looked the report over and snorted.
“—But really. Am I going to charge you to the full extent of the law, without nuance?”
Her lips quirked.
“I should hope not, sir. It’d probably end up with three years in prison if you interpreted it as strictly as could be.”
Venim shoved the reports to one side. Then he leaned back in his chair, which she envied; it had one of those fancy reclinable bases, not like the hard chairs you had to rock back on one leg to make it happen.
Pallass furniture. Some [Engineer] had made them, and they were snazzy but too expensive for her to ever justify getting. Technically, she could have gotten one on the Watch’s budget, but for what? It was just one of the things that Venim got with his new role. He tried not to laugh again, then snrked into one claw.
“Forgive me. But it’s very funny. Half of the Watch who knows you is talking about the Watch Captain destroying some junior [Guards] for not doing their jobs right. You are a legend amongst the new recruits.”
“What’s the other half think?”
He chuckled.
“The other half are reminiscing about the ‘good old days’ when they walked dark and swapping stories about the Slayer and Sergeant Relc, among others. Tell me, did you really do that before? I’d heard of the practice in other cities, but I never dreamed of doing it myself.”
There was the difference between him and her. Zevara shifted; she was from a smaller city, and he was from Pallass. She nodded to the desk.
“Oh, yes, sir. It wasn’t a fast patrol, and we had to move slowly to avoid being ambushed, but we didn’t have more than a single lantern per patrol. It was…different times.”
“Ancestors. What a nightmare. Well, I’m sure it shook up the rookies, and your visit to the…Steer must have been interesting. A dive?”
“Hellhole bar.”
“Dead gods, and you walked in there alone? With rookies and a single regular [Guard] to watch your back?”
Venim’s brows shot up in genuine alarm. Zevara coughed.
“I knew the bartender, sir. He knows that if anything happened to us in there, Senior Guardsman—sorry, Sergeant Relc would come after him, personally. It was relatively safe.”
At this, Venim just sat back and gestured for her to sit. When she did, he leaned over the desk.
“You don’t have to call me ‘sir’, Zevara. I may be Watch Commander, but I respect your role as the prior sole Watch Captain of Liscor. You’ve had to show me around the city for months—and I’m hardly going to take you to task for doing the job, even if it led to a few rookies getting knocked around.”
He chuckled again.
“It’s good for them to realize the Watch Captains can hold their own. We go to the training courts to prove an example in Pallass, too, every other month. Rushing in like that would have gotten Junior Guardsman Jorrey hurt, so it’s just as well he ran into you instead of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings.”
“Those were the ones who impersonated the Watch and stole the jewels? Is there a lead on them?”
Zevara straightened, but Venim waved it away.
“Only suspicions. They’re annoyingly good at covering their tracks, as a major gang of the north would be. Watch Captain Ronss’ first task is going to be investigating the incident.”
Right, so it’s out of my territory now. Zevara leaned back.
“Of course, sir. Though the Brothers probably operate in the southwestern or northeast districts, if I had to guess. Too many Gnolls in southeast—if I can coordinate with Ronss—”
“We’ll see how he operates, but it’s a good test for his leadership, Zevara. Let’s go over the incident first, if I may.”
She sat up slightly and took a breath, nodding. Venim tapped the papers and scrawled something at the bottom, then stamped it.
“I…have formally reprimanded you for the incidents I consider unbecoming to a Watch Captain, namely, placing yourself in danger and the practicing of old Liscorian Watch methods in front of junior guards without proper education. With that, I am disciplining you with another week of leave this month and calling for Sergeant Relc to take on administrative shifts in your Watch House for the foreseeable future.”
He glanced up, and Zevara blinked at him. At first, she thought this was some devilish punishment he’d given her until she saw his slight smile and realized he didn’t conflate ‘Relc’ and ‘administration’ with instant disaster.
“What? Relc? Another week off? With respect, Venim, I’ve taken too many of those as it is!”
He stared at her, then picked out a paper from a file that had her name on it.
“Watch Captain, you took off two weeks last year.”
“Exactly, sir.”
“That would make it six weeks of leave you’ve taken across ten years, including time for two broken bones.”
“—That can’t be right. I’ve taken off plenty of time.”
Venim checked the circled numbers at the bottom of his page.
“You mean, days off work? No, you’ve clocked in a third of the days you should have been resting. I had a [Scribe] tabulate it all. True, some of those days were when Liscor was in crisis or under siege, but you have a work record that would earn you a year of break in Pallass. And I know I saw you in the Watch House on at least one of your days off.”
She shifted, uncomfortable.
“I was passing by, and one of the [Guards] had an incident with some Humans who came to the city, and it needed a deft touch—”
“Quite. The Council would approve any number of days off for you if I had to ask them, which I don’t, Zevara. Do you know what I see when I read this report?”
Venim tapped the papers, and she stared at him.
“That I’ve lost touch with the patrols and I need to get back to the basics?”
“No, that you’re so overworked that you don’t know what to do with your spare time, Watch Captain! It’s fine to take a patrol out or to focus on a problematic [Guard] or area of the city—but you took an Antinium patrol out and did a full circuit of eighty-two streets? In six hours?”
“They were…eager, Commander.”
Her feet still hurt from that. Venim gave Zevara a sharp, concerned gaze.
“You’re overworked, Captain Zevara. I think you just don’t feel it yet. I expected you to sleep your entire break, but I think you’re pushing too much. Sergeant Relc will take over a lot of the paperwork for you.”
“He’ll hate that. He’s not a great desk-Drake, Commander.”
The female Drake protested mildly, but Venim just held up a claw.
“He’s nearing his forties, isn’t he? Even a high-level [Warrior] slows down, and he is a [Watch Sergeant]. Leadership’s become him of late. He’s no longer partnered with the Slayer…”
Venim said that name with the faintest of shudders, and Zevara wished he’d gotten to know the Klbkch she had, not the fell legend Drakes in other cities thought of him—
“…and he teaches junior [Guards] amazingly well. Finding out if he can handle the administrative aspect of a position is vital. If he can, there’s a clear track from Sergeant to Watch Captain, in time. Not that I think we’ll have more than three Watch Captains on active duty—but replacements so you three can rotate out would bring us up to six or seven for the city even if we don’t expand further.”
Six or seven Watch Captains for Liscor? It made her head spin. Zevara tried not to laugh, and Venim raised his brows.
“Something funny, Zevara?”
She schooled her face hurriedly.
“Sorry, Commander. It’s just that Watch Captain and Relc in the same sentence would have been a joke last year.”
Venim shook his head.
“I don’t know the Gecko of Liscor from any moments prior to becoming Watch Commander, but I’ve heard the rumors, and I can see why that would be assumed. He’s done quite well in his new class.”
“Of course, I didn’t mean to impugn him in any way.”
Now, she felt like the ass, but Venim just gave her a nod that said he got it.
“I’ll keep an eye on him, and I’m sure you will. Let him take the work on, and we’ll see. Besides…it was recommended to me that he’d be surprisingly good as a leader.”
“By who, sir?”
“Lord Raithland.”
Zevara blinked, then nearly shot out of her chair.
“You spoke to—is he still trying to get into the Council meetings?”
The half-Giant who looked like an older version of Moore had appeared just after the Goblin King did, entering Liscor like a storm. Well, he’d blocked a dozen bombardment spells that had nearly hit the city, which had already made him something of a hero, but he’d also bouldered his way into an embassy—by force. Zevara had taken his side then, but he was highly suspicious to her. He stank of The Wandering Inn, but Venim just shrugged.
“He’s quite knowledgeable, and the Council’s heard him out. He’s been talking to Guildmasters, to the election candidates—I think he’s even trying to get on the ballots last-minute.”
“He’s not even a citizen of Liscor!”
“He could be named an honorary one, and he’s bought a property in the 3rd District. Don’t worry, Watch Captain. I hardly take orders from a foreign [Lord], but he had a number of ideas of how to modernize the city. He’s been to proper cities, like Pallass.”
Proper cities. That bugged her so much she forgot to press about the half-Giant. Zevara fidgeted, folded her arms, then uncrossed them.
“So you’re taking my work away?”
Venim corrected her.
“I’m giving you time to adjust to a proper workload, Zevara. By all means, take the day off if you run out of work to do and you have Sergeant Relc or another Senior Guard you trust in office. Once you adjust, I’m sure you’ll find you’re busy with all the things you couldn’t focus on while you were managing the entire city. Maintenance of uniforms, repairs to the Watch House, problematic areas in your district—then we’ll be here, arguing over budgets and trying to get the Assembly of Crafts—I mean, the Council to give us repair budgets.”
He smiled at her, anticipating those future encounters with a slight wince. Zevara just sat there, trying to imagine herself doing that.
“What about The Wandering Inn?”
That made Venim’s smile slip slightly, which she wished didn’t give her so much pleasure. He fussed with his papers.
“It seems relatively…stable at the moment. Distance has indeed kept it from affecting Liscor—the last event excluded, but no one was hurt or killed, and I suppose that’s what we can hope for. The Council has focused on it, and I’m in contact with the Walled Cities about the matter. But we’re letting it stay as its own problem unless it affects us, Watch Captain. The most I heard we were going to do with it was tax it. Isn’t that what you recommended?”
Oh, that sounded like a fun event for whatever [Tax Collector] was on the job. Zevara hesitated. She had told Venim that the inn was hard to control and often bit you if you poked it, but…there was a difference between leaving it alone and staying in touch with it.
He was the Watch Commander, though. And she realized that was it. He was the Watch Commander. She was Watch Captain Zevara, and if she wanted to call the shots, she really should have taken his job.
“Watch Commander, you have a meeting with the Council in fifteen. Should I signal you’ll be delayed?”
The door opened, and a receptionist, a young Gnoll, asked. Venim shook his head and glanced at Zevara.
“I should be right on time unless there was anything else, Watch Captain…?”
“No, Commander. Thank you for your time. I’ll try to relax, then.”
She stood and threw a salute, which he returned. No, Zevara didn’t want to be him; she’d seen a list of his meetings for the day, and he was more meeting than desk-Drake. But he did call the shots. She didn’t want all of Liscor to be her problem, though. She wanted to be the Watch Captain doing things. But now she was one of three, possibly seven.
She…Zevara walked out of Venim’s office as he advised her to get some rest and of course contact him with any issues. He was doing a good job, she thought. Not the job she would have done, but good.
And she…
She trailed out of the new Watch Headquarters, recently built by Antinium out of stone, not old wood polished with age, fortified like a keep, filled with as many administrative people as [Guards]. She stared at the building and then around at the city which, in the faint light of the rains, still bustled with sound and opportunity.
Her city.
Not her city. She felt old in it, out of place. Had Tekshia ever felt the same? Surely. Surely…but Zevara could adjust. She was young and still hip with the things. Is that what the children said? She swore she’d heard Erin saying that once.
What worried her was that perhaps she was delusional. Because despite the cleansing rain, the magical portal station being built in the plaza, the new faces—
It still felt dirty to her, down under it all.
Dirty. She ran her claws along the wall of the Watch Headquarters. Trying to pick some up on her nails. But all she got was clean water.
 
——
 
Having a day off always felt wrong to the Watch Captain. It was, in theory, something to rejoice over, but it messed with her, that break in her routine.
For Zevara, it was waking up in bed just before dawn and realizing she didn’t have to rush out the door to get to the Watch House and greet last night’s patrol. She lay in bed and slept another hour. Then woke up hungry.
“Food. Get to it, Guardswoman.”
That was how she motivated herself, snapping at herself as if she were both Watch Captain and [Guardswoman]. Zevara popped out of bed and stumbled into her kitchen wearing only a shift. She opened her food pantry and found a pouch of grains and some milk.
The pouch was empty of all but a scoop of very old oats. Zevara stared at it and recalled that she’d been unhappy about that of late. And there were no fruits in her cupboard. Or eggs. Or butter.
The milk had chunks in it. She closed the cupboard. Normally, she had a more fulfilling breakfast in the Watch House. A [Guard] would get assigned kitchen duties to whip something up for patrols, and you always knew who was the best cook…Zevara’s specialty was frying flatbread with butcher meat and hitting the entire thing with whatever spices were cheapest on Market Street.
Nothing for it; she’d have to treat herself to breakfast on the street. She got paid enough for that. The Watch Captain went for the door.
She tripped along the way.
The crash was her going head-over-heels—the swearing was because she’d tweaked her tail. The instrument of her devastation was the machine of death.
The bike.
It sat in her apartment, sticking out from the couch covered in articles of Zevara’s gear and clothing that she’d been meaning to wash or dry. Zevara stared at it as she untangled a chair from the damn spokes.
“Right. I forgot I had this thing.”
The bike. Kevin’s bike.
Well, not his bike, but one from Solar Cycles, brand new. Not the highest-end model, but she knew this thing was probably worth a lot of gold. He’d given it to her last winter. Before he died.
She’d been fully annoyed to find it on her doorstep one day, delivered from his shop. The Watch didn’t take bribes. But before she could throw it at him and warn him to stop running over her tail, he’d died.
She hadn’t had the heart to toss or donate it. The Watch should not take gifts, but from a dead man? Zevara stared at the bicycle and thought, well, to hells with it. It was probably faster than walking, and it was her day off.
 
——
 
Six minutes later, Zevara realized that learning how to ride a bicycle in the rain was not a great idea. Getting it down from her 2nd floor apartment via the narrow staircase had been hard enough; one of her Gnollish neighbors had given her a look as he let his kids out for the morning.
Once on the street, she’d had to consult the manual that had still been attached to the bicycle. Handily, this one was simple and told her how the thing operated. Just keep pedaling…put your foot down after braking to stay upright. And there was even a ‘tail holster’ so you didn’t run it over or tangle it in the wheel.
A few attempts at cycling on the wet street wasn’t fun, though. The bicycle had all-metal wheels covered with Wyvern leather, reinforced and enchanted by Pelt and Hedault, but it wasn’t great traction. Mostly, though…it was just too efficient.
“Whoa, whoa—argh!”
A few rotations of the wheels and she shot down the street, tried to brake, and hit the front brakes way too hard. So the bicycle’s frontal wheel halted, and the momentum catapulted her forwards, off the vehicle. Zevara landed on her front in the street, lay there for a second, and of course got on the bicycle again.
Because she’d be damned if this thing beat her. Six minutes later, Zevara was gingerly pedaling down the street, avoiding the pedestrians while keeping out of the way of wagons. Most people who saw her stared at the bicycle or the rather unkempt Watch Captain. Possibly they took her as some other Drake woman; out of uniform, she wasn’t the Zevara they knew.
Twice, Zevara nearly got in trouble with the law. She kept nearly running the traffic lights; she’d forgotten how many there were! And because her bicycle was classified as a vehicle, she had to remember the rules of the road.
Both times, the [Guard] just blew a whistle at her, and she stopped, turning her head and flushing bright red under her scales. Thankfully, no one recognized her in the rain, and Zevara pedaled on.
Breakfast. Life would be better with…
“What do you mean closed?”
Hamhock Bites was a local…food place. A delicatessen would be too grand a word for it. It served ham on bread. Not sandwiches—again, that was too fancy. But for a copper coin, you could fill half your stomach with something that was probably meat and probably bread.
Zevara had gone to it since she was a girl. Today, it was closed. The usual line of working-class Drakes and Gnolls was gone, and an apologetic Drake addressed her as he took the sign down.
“Sorry, Watch Captain. We got bought out. Anyways, it’s not like Hamhocks was doing well, not lately. Everyone wants a burger or pizza or something almost as cheap.”
“But who’d want to buy your shop?”
It was in the southwest district along one of the bigger streets, true, but…the Drake just laughed.
“Now that we’re next to 3rd District, there’s good money in places here. Me, I’m taking my money and buying my family a bigger home in the new areas. My boy’s a [Butcher], and he’s selling scrap meat for all the hot dogs and whatnot. I’ll help him with the business. I’d get you one of the old Hamhock day-old specials if I could, but I reckon poisoning the Watch Captain is a bad way to go out.”
He gave her a friendly nod. Zevara was about to ask who was buying him out when the Drake stepped off the little ladder, and someone came out with a new sign and hung it up above her head.
Mottleshell’s Pet Café. The Antinium holding the sign had a cat drawn on his shell. Zevara stared at him, then another Antinium with mossy green and grey on his shell, in a rather attractive pattern, came forwards.
“Hello, Watch Captain. I am Mottleshell, the new owner of this café. I would offer you delightful petting experiences and food, but I am sad to say that this is an Antinium-specialty store.”
She stared at him. The Drake gave her a meaningful gaze as a bunch of mewing cats and dogs followed the worker into the store. She saw the small store was being converted; it had tons of mats, and it seemed like you sat while animals crawled around you.
“Uh. What? Antinium-specialty? That’s not allowed.”
Species-exclusive establishments weren’t allowed in Liscor; there had been a huge fight back with the old Council over the entire matter. Mottleshell clarified.
“We will serve you if you wish, Watch Captain Zevara, but it will not be pleasant. Would you like a sample meal? On the house?”
“I’ll pay. I don’t take free gifts.”
Zevara went into the shop and found herself seated with a cat on her lap. She stared at the cat. The cat stared back. It expected some petting, so Zevara did her best; after a few moments, the cat hopped out of her lap, a commentary on how good she was at that.
The theory of Mottleshell’s café was a good one. In practice? It was spring in Liscor. The animals…were wet. They were also still cats and dogs. A puppy ran over Zevara’s lap, and she jumped; a cat horked up a hairball that one of the Antinium Workers hurried to clean up, but it wasn’t doing anything for her stomach. And all the pets seemed to think people were excellent towels.
Despite this, there was a line of Antinium waiting to get in. They didn’t mind the smell, and Zevara quickly realized why this shop was marketing itself as Antinium-specialty.
“Here is our menu, Watch Captain. It, um. It is very edible, except for the Antinium nutritional paste. Do not order that. Or the Shield Spider legs. Everything is boiled.”
Mottleshell handed her a menu, and Zevara read from it. If she’d thought Hamhocks was cheap…
 
Acid Fly Bowl (one serving) — 2 cp.
Antinium Nutritional Paste — Free with seating.
Shield Spider parts (two servings) — 1 cp.
Rats/pests (two servings, may not always be available) — 1 cp.
Monster Parts of the Day (one serving) — 1 cp.
 
“By…rats, do you mean something special?”
“No, we mean rats caught by [Ratcatchers], Watch Captain. Those that do not use poison sell them to us in bulk. Or roaches, spiders, the small ones, or—”
Zevara put down the menu.
“I see. And the monster parts?”
“Scraps from the dungeon that have been deemed edible, Watch Captain. Like caterpillars. Some parts of them are not edible.”
“…And you have Workers who pay for this?”
Mottleshell lowered his voice.
“If it is that or the nutritional paste, they will pay for it, Watch Captain.”
“I’m almost tempted to order the paste to see what it tastes like. Klbkch told me stories.”
She joked weakly, and all the Antinium turned and regarded her. Mottleshell shook his head slowly.
“I would not, Watch Captain. May I take your order?”
“Er, no thank you. Carry on. Thank you for letting me see what it’s like in here. How much do I owe…?”
She hadn’t sat long, so Mottleshell waved off her copper, which was the price of admission. His store was apparently a copper to sit for an hour with pets, and the food was optional. She didn’t see how you could run a store on these prices until she considered that since he lived in the Antinium Hive or potentially apartments for his people, and the food was free…if he was willing to eat it…
Antinium had money these days. Some kind of allowance from the Free Queen, but it wasn’t much. This was a store catering to them. Indeed, the line outside contained only two Painted Antinium; the rest were Workers or even Soldiers between shifts at their jobs. Each one seemed to have one or two copper coins at most. Was that per day or per week…?
They were vibrating with urgency to enter the store, and one stood paralyzed in the entry-way when they finally paid their copper coin to enter this fluffy, wet-furred paradise. Zevara watched until her growling stomach reminded her that she needed food as well. So back on her bike she went.
…No, wait. Someone had stolen it. She saw that in the brief moment she’d been inattentive, a young thief had done what any Liscorian would do in the old days and hopped on and begun pedaling madly away. The Antinium pointed to her urgently, but only a few were chasing; the rest didn’t want to lose their place in line.
Time was, a single Antinium would have scared anyone spitless so even if there was a pile of gold, no one would get near. Zevara sighed nostalgically and pointed at the thief’s back.
“[Freeze, Criminal].”
She watched with some satisfaction as the bike went over and a shout of pain came from the thief who’d tangled their tail in the wheel.
 
——
 
It wasn’t worth hauling the kid to the Watch House. The Watch did let people off with warnings, and when the frightened Drake had realized it was the Watch Captain he’d tried to steal from, he’d clearly envisioned himself behind bars for a year.
“Stop stealing bicycles, kid. Only Solar Cycles sells them, and any [Fence] in the city will rip you off for the trouble of riding one. Next time I see you stealing, I won’t be this nice.”
She advised the street kid. The Drake protested.
“Nuh, Watch Captain. There’s a market for them bicycle parts! You cut it up and sell them for one of them other bikes. Solar Cycles ain’t doing them alone.”
“What? That’s impossible. I know the maker—Selys told me how damn hard they are to make.”
All the gears and whatnot…the Drake boy edged back, clearly ready to run.
“You can get one from Pallass. Some [Smiths] make ‘em, and the House of El’s done some, and there’s plenty of bad ones. Made of wood and iron. Heavy as shit. Anything from Solar Cycles is worth lots.”
“Oh, so it’s a chop-shop job. You steal this, cut it up, and sell it, and someone’s riding on these wheels later?”
He nodded, then his eyes widened as Zevara recognized the scheme. She gave him a steady gaze.
“Well, now I know you were trying to make sensible coin off my bicycle, beat it. If my guards catch you running this scheme, you’ll be seeing me again.”
He made tracks. Zevara shook her head as she pedaled off in search of food. And now she had an expensive bicycle she had to watch. Not lock up; even if she had a chain and lock, someone would just cut it off in a second. That’s what she would have done.
“Damn Kevin—my tail!”
She’d forgotten the tail holster.
 
——
 
It was true there were more bicycles on the streets than her own. Zevara saw six in the time it took her to cross back eastwards, and only one was a Solar Cycles original. All of them gave her envious glances; theirs were far heavier-seeming vehicles made of materials cheaper than steel. Thick wood wheels, grinding gears—one Human looked like he was dying for every ten feet he moved, but his rolling bicycle—more like a cart with a gear system—did move.
Zevara nearly wiped out on the slick roads, but she had to grudgingly admit that her bicycle had decent traction and was certainly fast in the rain. But by now, she was so hungry that only the bicycle was enabling her to move anywhere at speed.
The problem was…everywhere was full! She’d thought to get food from a street vendor, but the first line had been fourteen people long. The next? Thirty.
“Hot dogs! Hot dogs with cheese fillings! Special Skill here!”
“Fish dogs! Made out of fish!”
“Corusdeer Burger? Anyone want—mayonnaise and ketchup on top!”
“Yellat pie! C’mon, who wants an old-fashioned Yellat pie?”
That had the least amount of customers, and it was cheap…but even Zevara wasn’t ready to pay for something that cheap. It was all Yellat: the simple vegetable made up the pie’s filling, and the skin did for the crust and top. Two coppers and you’d probably be full for most of the day, but your taste buds would not thank you.
It was nice to have more food and more high-quality products on the streets. Just—if she could eat it!
So many Humans and other people! The restaurants were full, the cafés were busy serving tea and coffee—and when Zevara did get an opening, she didn’t have anywhere to park her bicycle!
Addled, starving, there was only one place she could think to turn in her hour of need.
The Watch House! She was halfway into the barracks when they kicked her out.
“Wh—I’m just getting some food!”
“Can’t let you in, Watch Captain. Commander Venim’s orders. It’s your day off!”
An apologetic Guardswoman Jerci blocked Zevara, who was staring at some—
“Is that a tart? Egg and bacon?”
“Yep. Made it myself, Watch Captain.”
Jerci appeared quite proud. Zevara tried to edge past her.
“I’ll just get—come on, this isn’t me working. Just one would—hey! Hey!”
Even for the Watch Captain, dozens of hungry [Guards] were only too willing to shove her aside to get at the treats. With her slow damn bicycle, Zevara saw only crumbs of the tray. After wrestling with her pride, she didn’t ask Jerci to pick at the pan.
On the way out, Zevara swore she felt a tingle on her scales. She checked her fingers, and a ring she always wore gleamed a second—she turned her head and didn’t see anyone, but she swore she heard voices.
“Damn. Anti-appraisal. Do you think she’s actually not Level 40…?”
All Watch Captains got issued rings that denied [Appraisal] spells. Zevara snorted as she walked off. Who wouldn’t have one of those on all the time? She was sensible about always wearing her magical items.
Just…not buying cooking ingredients sometimes.
 
——
 
So this was how she died. Zevara was slowly cycling through Shivertail Plaza in the center of the city, wondering if the Council were meeting. They had free food. That vendor had only eighteen people…then she heard a familiar shout.
“Liscor, departing now! Remember, all Pallass-bound citizens, have your passport ready!”
The magic door. There was a line and even awnings set up in the center of the plaza, just off from the statue of Zel Shivertail. Zevara’s eyes snapped to the people filing through, and she had a thought.
These days, you went to other cities via The Wandering Inn. You had to pay a fee to get anywhere, and you’d wait with that Gnoll, Liska, as she sent you through to your destination. But getting to The Wandering Inn cost you nothing from Liscor.
And if there was anywhere in the world that wasn’t full-to-bursting during the breakfast rush hour…Zevara joined the line like a shot. She rolled her bicycle through the door, and a familiar Gnoll sitting on a couch glanced up.
“Oh, it’s you, Watch Captain. What’ve we done this time?”
Liska picked at her teeth, glaring at Zevara, and the Watch Captain cleared her throat.
“Nothing that I know of. Should I? I’m off-duty, and I actually came for breakfast…”
“Oh. Well, go on in. You can leave the bicycle in the hallway.”
“What about thieves?”
Liska gave Zevara a weird look as she closed the door with a wave of her paw and it clicked around to another dial.
“What about ‘em? They either have to pedal on the bridges or get past me.”
That wasn’t hugely reassuring given that Liska was splayed out on a worn couch with a bowl of crackers balanced on her stomach—but Zevara then recalled she’d been there when the Goblin King emerged. She had a…vibe to her that made Zevara think she was higher-level.
The Wandering Inn’s made a monster out of even Liska. Zevara supposed that it was safe enough, and she nodded to Liska. They really didn’t have a lot to say to each other, but they did know one another.
“Thank you. Er, good not to see you in my Watch House these days.”
That might have been a mistake to comment, as Liska’s brows snapped together, but then she just harrumphed.
“It’s not against the law to kiss people, is it?”
Zevara dodged the question like an [Acrobat]. Firstly, because she didn’t think Liska wanted people in line listening in, even if she was heated. Secondly, because that particular kiss was against the law…but it wasn’t one of the laws Zevara felt like prosecuting to the best of her ability. She cleared her throat.
“No, only throwing rocks, shouting curses in public, and poking a [Guardsman] excessively—I meant that as a compliment, my apologies. How’s, ah, Miss Eressi doing?”
Liska hesitated a touch too long and brushed at the crumbs on her fur.
“Good. She’s—we’re great. Look, I’m busy, are you gonna ask questions all day? You’re dripping on my floor. Someone’s gotta clean that.”
By ‘someone’ she meant an Antinium Soldier with a mop, who gave her a long stare. Liska held up a bowl.
“Goldbody, wanna snack?”
He brightened up and munched down a big handful, then mopped up the crumbs he’d scattered. Zevara backed away. If this worked, it worked. Certainly, Liska could one-woman an entire teleportation network by herself.
Though she had to have busybodies who didn’t like Antinium or whatnot. In fact, two came barrelling out of Pallass, pushing people trying to enter the City of Inventions aside.
“Hey, no cutting the line! [Get in Line]!”
Liska barked, and the duo paused. One held up a passport.
“Agents of Pallass. Priority to Liscor—”
“Priority my second tail! Eat shit and die! People exit, then you come in! And stop glaring at Goldbody or I’ll forbid entry into Liscor!”
They had given the Soldier dark looks, but Liska’s snapping made them hesitate. Zevara muttered to Liska as the Drake duo paused. Everyone else waiting in line eyed the Gnoll throwing around power.
“Can you do that?”
“Sure can. I’m the one of the only people who can use Erin’s Skill. Assign new teleportation spots and manipulate it. She put me in charge of this place, so until she comes back, even Lyonette can’t order me around!”
Liska wore a huge smile as she folded her arms, then her ears flattened.
“Don’t, uh, tell her I said that.”
The threat worked on the two huffy Drakes, who moved into line for Liscor. They did bully their way to the front, but their ‘priority’ only went that far.
Dead gods, agents of Pallass. Zevara disliked them on principle. She didn’t like officials in general. It was a bad bias, but it came from the previous Councils, who’d been largely self-serving and ineffectual. And her old Watch Captain.
It wasn’t even that she hated the agents for being agents—it was how they just used their power to cut a line and wanted special treatment. She’d waited in line! If it wasn’t an emergency, and she doubted it was, you shouldn’t be special even if you were an Eye of Pallass.
Her grumpy thoughts she kept to herself. Zevara let Liska get back to work, as the door to Pallass closed and it clicked to a new city. The Gnoll hollered at the people in line.
“Alright, everyone through to Celum! You lot wait for people to exit! Dead gods, my life is hard.”
There was a Gnoll who was committed to her job, albeit in a weird way. Zevara shook her head as she wheeled her bicycle into the hallway—or what remained of it—and stared at the blue bubble shielding the inn and common room from the rain.
“Ancestors.”
She’d seen the damage to the inn before, but this…she stepped into the inn, hesitant, and someone came up to her. A Human woman in a server’s uniform gave her a huge smile.
“Hello, Watch Captain. Are you searching for Miss Lyonette?”
“Er, no. Just for breakfast.”
“Wonderful. Please be seated here. And here is a menu.”
In short order, Zevara had a seat and took one look at the menu.
“Uh—a continental and coffee.”
She chose the first thing on the menu as her stomach screamed at her, and the server scribbled a note down on a piece of paper, strode over to the kitchen, and placed it on a board along the inside wall. Even this was different; Zevara saw the window was open to the kitchen, and someone grabbed the note, read it, and disappeared inside.
Exactly thirty-nine seconds later, a Goblin was holding a steaming platter of food and a coffee mug on a tray. Asgra put it on the table as Zevara blinked and then remembered how fast the inn could put out food thanks to Erin’s Skill.
“Thank you, er…Asgra?”
“You is welcome, Watch Captain. We not kill or blow anything up today. Yet.”
The Cave Goblin informed her, and Zevara realized most of the inn’s staff probably thought she was here because they were in trouble. She tried to explain she wasn’t here for anything but breakfast. Asgra just shrugged.
“You never here when things normal, Watch Captain. Why start today?”
On that reassuring note, she left Zevara to her food. The Watch Captain admitted she might have devoured her plate. The coffee filled her with energy, and she wondered why she didn’t eat here all the time.
The bill reminded her. Wincing, Zevara dug out several coppers—Lyonette tended to price everything at or just above market value, as opposed to Erin’s old prices, which had been good.
Temporarily food-coma-ed, Zevara realized that the inn was also getting back to work. She put her claws over her stomach and observed with that experience that came of being a Level 36 [Watch Captain of Integrity].
Yes, only Level 36. She hadn’t lied to Guardswoman Jerci. Of course, she hadn’t told the entire truth either. She was appropriately levelled for her time in Liscor in some senses.
She had two classes, not one. And both let her pick up on important bits of information, such as a weary and wet group of men and women sitting at one table.
“Turns out I hate the rain. I’ve been building up my house all spring, and every time I shift the house a bit, it’s all drenched.”
“You were warned, Shommel. You should have put up the frame first. Look at Leiithe and Dorkel’s home.”
The first speaker growled. He looked like a farmer.
“I don’t have that much free bone lying around! Nor am I that good with mass boneshaping. I’d give my best skeleton to have Elosaith’s [Adept Boneshaping] Skill.”
Zevara stared at them until it clicked—these were Rheirgest’s [Necromancers]! The one that the idiots had chased off their site near to Liscor. They were sitting over a breakfast much like hers, grousing.
“Now that we don’t have to hide things, Elosaith’s going for a mansion. Where’s he getting all the bones from?”
“[Butchers] in Liscor, he told me. The Princess is paying him—”
“I thought he was putting it all towards what we needed.”
“He’s putting a lot towards it. Good thing too, because food prices are bad even though it’s spring. I can’t buy much that’s not fish from Liscor for cheap.”
“Don’t go to Liscor. Go to Riverfarm. They’re flush with anything you can grow, though prices are up even there—makes me think we should get the undead to start farming as soon as the rains end. I’m told that once it recedes, it’s all fertile soil. Makes sense with the waters rushing in and out. Or we dredge enough land to farm even in the rains…we’d need a good barrier for the waters.”
“Do we have the mana to do that and build the new inn?”
“I do. This area’s rife with death magic. It’s keeping all the undead under control that takes the effort. And the coin to buy anything. Everything’s too damned expensive…and we can’t even get that free bread.”
They were sighing into their cups of tea, and Zevara felt like that was a refrain she’d heard from a lot of Liscorians. The price of things—no wonder Garry’s bread bakery was still much appreciated. Perhaps her experience trying to get a meal wasn’t just from rush hour.
Rheirgest, as an entire village of ostracized [Necromancers], would have a lot of trouble getting set up even without the rain. But it seemed like Zevara wasn’t the only person listening in—or feeling like changing things up today.
A Gnoll skated over, wearing a somewhat scruffy suit of all things. Ishkr approached the table with a refill of tea.
“Excuse me, deathfolk. Did I hear pricing is an issue in Liscor? We’ve been paying a bit more for ingredients, but we get ours from the source most times.”
The [Necromancers] greeted Ishkr and affirmed that yes, prices did suck.
“It’s wood as well as anything else. I’d almost think there’s a market in growing trees if you could get them to shoot up fast enough. There’s a tax on wood imported from Celum, so it’s just—more expensive than going out logging with a bunch of skeletons and coming back after a few days.”
Zevara supposed anything was more expensive than that. She sipped from her coffee as Ishkr hmmed. Then he nodded and snapped his fingers.
“I understand. I’ll confirm this with Lyonette and Elosaith, but I doubt she’ll object. What if we offered anyone from Rheirgest a 50% discount on anything bought from The Wandering Inn? You’re building the new one and are our closest and best customers outside of our regulars. Would that help?”
The group of villagers regarded each other and murmured. The first one, Shommel, asked Ishkr tentatively.
“Can the inn afford that? Between repairs, paying for the new inn—if it’s a strain, we’d rather not take the generous offer.”
Ishkr smiled ruefully.
“I think we can very much afford it, especially if it helps, Necromancer Shommel. Let me inform the staff.”
Well, that was something. Zevara eyed the menu surreptitiously and wondered if she could get in on that discount. It meant she’d suddenly be eating good, fast food every morning right here if so.
As soon as the thought crossed her head, Zevara overruled it with a mental sigh. No, you can’t do that, scales-for-brains. That would definitely compromise her relationship with the inn.
Life, for Zevara, was a battle of fighting her impulses, which were always to take shortcuts or accept compromises that would affect the integrity of what she did.
A [Watch Captain] had to be better. She had to not take bribes. She had to do things she didn’t agree with or want, even if they inconvenienced her, because the law demanded the person at the top to be beyond corruption. She’d seen how bad it got if that wasn’t so, and that was why she was so paranoid about this kind of thing.
She’d been…a worse [Guardswoman]. She still was that worse [Guardswoman]. That was why she was so vigilant, so concerned. The girl who’d stolen to survive, the Watch officer who’d known when to back off and avoid a fight, the imperfect Drake from the Watch’s older days, from Liscor’s dirtier times, was still right in her.
A Level 36 [Watch Captain of Integrity], you see. That was her. But also—
A Level 32 [Streetwise Guardswoman].
Two classes, both Level 30. Both of which seemed to level alternatively each time a disaster happened in Liscor. When she commanded the Watch, the [Watch Captain] levelled. When she was fighting Crelers and stomping them down, the [Guardswoman] gained a level.
She’d never, ever heard of someone having two classes in the same discipline like this. Not that Zevara talked about her dual-class condition, and the ring meant no one knew her class. She filed her reports with her [Watch Captain] class and level, so it was honest…to a point.
Zevara had thought about why she had two classes of the same nature, and there were reasons. Reasons, such as that the day she’d made Watch Captain, she’d gained [Rookie Watch Captain] as a class at Level 1 rather than consolidated her [Guardswoman] class as normal.
Because…she’d felt like it was her chance to be someone better than the [Guardswoman] she’d been. Something separate, something you had to live up to. The Watch Captain had to be full of integrity. The [Guardswoman] could be the one who wanted to have a drink in a hellhole pub and let young [Thieves] go. Someday, she hoped, the [Guardswoman] would vanish or become part of the [Watch Captain], and then she’d truly have earned her job. If she did better.
If she actually managed to keep her city safe. But she’d let Venim become Watch Commander, so maybe…
“Hey, can I get a Dragonbreath Red? On the rocks?”
Zevara flagged down Asgra, who gave her a weird look.
“Drake who doesn’t want Firebreath Whiskey? What this world coming to? What a Dragonbreath Red?”
“Look for the cheapest bottle you’ve got. That should be it.”
To her relief, the Cave Goblin only had skepticism about the Firebreath Whiskey thing, not the fact that the Watch Captain was drinking just after breakfast. Zevara tried not to lick her lips as she was served a generous cup of it.
Bad habits on her days off. Venim didn’t know better, but Zevara took one sip of her drink and sighed.
[Sharpwit Drinker].
Not the worst Skill you could get, but it encouraged you to have more drinks than was appropriate. It came of having a drink when you were on watch late at night and needed to steady your nerves. In her case, it just made her more receptive to little things, like someone tiptoeing up on her—she still lost her graces and higher-capacity thought. She thought like the streets.
She’d known one Senior Guardswoman who [Drank Her Breakfast] and who was deadlier in a fight the more she’d had. The Drake had still died in a full street brawl with some of Soot’s people. More drinks meant you made bad decisions.
Still. It tasted so good, even if Dragonbreath Red was more like food coloring mixed in a boot with fermented Yellats.
 
——
 
Lyonette came by soon enough; Zevara was eying another shot of Dragonbreath Red. The Watch Captain brightened when she saw her friend, but it seemed Lyonette had work. A group of Antinium wanted her—to sell something?
“Greetings, Miss Lyonette who is not a [Princess] nor a [Seductress]. We have a small sample of goods to offer you for potential sale in your inn.”
The mild hilarity of hearing how the Antinium addressed Lyonette aside—Zevara felt underfoot as Lyonette shot her an apologetic glare. She sat back down at the bar and nursed her drink. The [Princess] just didn’t have time to spare with her.
And Demsleth isn’t going to be here for several more days, so I really have to find something to do. Maybe I should try dating. Then again, I never seem to have luck there.
The gloomy Watch Captain tuned out Lyonette’s flustered interactions with the Antinium. Strange as it was to imagine her and Pawn—at least she’d found some romance in her life. Zevara had been trying to date Olesm, a junior co-worker, for years, if only hesitantly, then she’d had romantic feelings about her prisoner.
Never acted on them, which was good, but dead gods. She needed a fifth drink. Instead, Zevara coughed as Lyonette came over.
“I’ll just be one second, Zevara. It’s good to see you—what are you drinking?”
“Just a bit of Dragonbreath Red. Don’t rush on my account. I might be going out anyways.”
“Are you sure, Zevara? I could catch up just after this…so, um, Holytext, is it?”
“That is my name, Miss Lyonette the Seductress.”
The other two Antinium who’d come with the [Priest] on his sales pitch were poking him constantly, but he seemed to have a grudge against Lyonette. Zevara wondered if Pawn could have sent a better candidate—or if all the Painted Antinium were like this.
For her part, Lyonette wore a patient smile, but it seemed she had made her own peace with her past.
“If Pawn ever wants to know a female touch again, I suggest he rethink how he views past lovers, Holytext. But far be it from me to lecture the faithful on politeness, especially with a prospective business partner. May I see the goods?”
“…IamverysorryMissLyonette, here are the items we wish to offer.”
The Antinium were selling a hand-bound book—clearly made without experts in bookbinding—several scrolls of parchment, what looked like a bunch of children’s drawings in paint, and a pumpkin.
Zevara had to at least stay to get an explanation on this one. Lyonette eyed the selection and murmured.
“So your art from artists in the Antinium, I presume that’s crops from the fields—I would have thought pumpkins were out of season—and the book?”
“One of our [Farmers] has [Out of Season Crops], Miss Lyonette. This is our holy text. The Book of the Sky, as written by Pawn himself.”
“Oh dear. At least it’s not about Erin…I hope.”
Holytext had apparently hand-scribed this book himself.
“It only contains her in 24.8% of all sections. Please observe the wisdom within. We also have a very salacious book—”
“The one on sex. I know. And you want to sell them? At the inn?”
The Antinium shuffled their feet.
“Not many vendors are willing to take our goods, Miss Lyonette. Even Krshia Silverfang will not. Oh, and here are some of our scrolls that—ah! Holytext, your book!”
“Damn!”
The swearing from an Antinium of the cloth was followed by him snatching the book from Lyonette’s hands. One of the pages she was flipping through had been…glowing? Or the words on it were. Holytext grabbed it, then ripped it out! Lyonette and Zevara blinked as, with a sigh, he tossed it on the pile of scrolls.
“That keeps happening. It is very inconvenient, even if Pawn believes it is of great fiscal value.”
“Um. Excuse me, I think I need an explanation of what’s going on.”
Lyonette was massaging her temples. Holytext had a patient tone.
“It is very simple. Sometimes what we write, if it is holy or meaningful, it becomes the scroll-stuff. Which is very useful, but not if we wish to have full works of our book.”
“Which is why we should hire a [Scribe] or someone not you to write it, Holytext.”
One of the [Acolytes] said loudly. Holytext gripped his defaced book proudly.
“It is my name! You make them too! No one not faithful should write the word of Pawn or the Book of Solstice—”
Lyonette’s eyes narrowed, and Zevara half-turned.
“The what?”
“Nothing! It does not exist, and we would not know it if it did!”
The Antinium avoided looking at Lyonette, who leaned forwards.
“I think you’ve been speaking to someone I’d rather like to know. Zevara, I’m sorry, but this is rather complicated. First off, tell me who told you that, Holytext. Second—the scrolls. Third, and I hate to insult your work—a proper [Bookbinder] and [Scribe] would make that book far more impressive. Your writing is a bit lopsided—”
Holytext cried out.
“Priest Pawn was right, you do break hearts! Everything you say is hurtful!”
 
——
 
Fun as it was to watch Lyonette quiz Antinium, Zevara was a bit—okay, a lot sloshed, and she stepped out to pee. She was exiting the outhouse and wondering if she should rejoin the Lyonette inquisition or go on her merry way. Whatever that was.
She was walking back into the inn when someone brushed past her and called out.
“Kevin Randy! Hey, man, how’d it go at Imani’s?”
A young man with sandy black hair waved at Joseph as the [Football Coach] jogged over. He was red-eyed and rubbed at his face.
“Dude. I want to stop crying. It was rough, man. In a good way? She totally flipped out, obviously, and Palt…I think he took it real hard. He was trying not to cry himself, and then—dude.”
Zevara stopped, leaning against one wall as the world spun slightly. She didn’t know why, but there was something familiar about the young man she’d never met before. She eyed him. One of the Earthers, Erin’s people?
Everyone knew Joseph, Imani, Rose, and that other guy were all ‘Earthers’—if not precisely what. Zevara had her own levels of knowledge, and Relc knew more, she suspected. You didn’t stay at The Wandering Inn without picking up on that. A new one? She eyed Kevin Randy as he blew his nose with a handkerchief.
“I thought he’d be cursing you out. Because of, y’know, Erin? And Imani and her eye…”
Joseph hesitated, and the other young man just shook his head.
“At first, he thought it was a trick. Like, Erin had tricked everyone? He was super mad until Imani threatened to kick him out. Then he was all questions and suspicions, which is fair. But then he believed and…dude. Dude. He just turns to me and asks if I could bring Isceil back. Dead-on, man.”
“Fuck. Fuck, dude.”
“Yeah.”
The conversation made no sense to Zevara, and it had all the rhetorical level of, well, Rhata. But it meant something. She half-turned as the two walked by, and then the young man noticed her.
Kevin Randy froze, then leaned away so Joseph was between him and…Zevara tried not to watch him openly. She pretended to be drinking some water, and she activated a Skill. The [Guardswoman]’s.
[Long Ear]. She followed them as they entered the common room and took a seat, listening to the conversation as she ordered some water.
“Fuck, Joseph! That’s Zevara!”
“Oh shit, it is. Wait, you didn’t tell her?”
“Dude, how can I? She’s the law. The man. I know she’s on our side, but I’m trying to keep this secret!”
“It’s fucked up not to tell her.”
“I know, but—can you distract her? I can’t do this right now, man. I just spent like four hours crying with Imani.”
“Okay. Fine. Hey, Captain Zevara, how’s it going?”
Even without that as preface, Joseph approaching her with a huge smile on his face was as obvious as the sun. Zevara nodded to him as she stared at Kevin Randy’s back. Why did her heart hurt so much?
“Coach Joseph. How’s our team doing?”
“Our team? Great, great. We’re going to lose the next season, I think. The Flood Crabs are good, but Pallass’ team is ready to take them out, and Invrisil’s got a new Gold-ranker on their team. So…how’s the law stuff?”
She glanced down at her table, where an empty bottle of Dragonbreath Red and several cups showed Joseph how the day was going. He eyed her.
“Are you drinking on duty?”
“I’m on vacation. Want a drink?”
Too late, she remembered he was a reformed alcoholic as well. Joseph licked his lips.
“That’s really tempting. Sadly, I’ve got to keep it straight and narrow. I didn’t realize you drank like that.”
She offered him a faint smile, surprising even herself.
“Like you said, when I’m on duty or I know I have work, I can’t partake.”
“And that’s how you beat your, uh—”
“My penchant for drinks? Yes. Is it working for you?”
Joseph sat down and grimaced, forgetting for a moment he was supposed to be distracting her.
“I sound like such an old man, but yeah. It really does. I’ve gotta coach Ekirra and the kids, you know? I feel like if I went out there wasted I’d be the first in line to kick my ass.”
“That’s good of you. You never stop wanting it, though. It just gets easier not to if you keep it up.”
Joseph reached for a pitcher of water and poured himself a drink.
“Great, well, I really wanted to hear that. So…that’s all you’re doing on your day off?”
“I’ve got nothing else. I’m heading back into work tomorrow. Relc’s doing paperwork, so at least I get to see how that’s going.”
The [Football Coach] grinned at the thought.
“I heard him complaining about that last night. Though Ad—Arrema was telling him he’d be good at that.”
“Arrema? I don’t know who that is.”
“Oh, uh, someone new. We’ve gotten new people at the inn lately. You know how it is.”
Joseph visibly panicked, and Zevara sighed. That was the problem with Watch work. The guilty always looked damn guilty. Usually, when someone stole something, you got a truth stone, asked them on the spot whether they’d stolen it, and that was that. She couldn’t do it with Joseph, but—she leaned over the table.
“New people? Like that friend of yours, what’s his name? Randy? He seems familiar. Anything I should know?”
Joseph sat back and tried to laugh.
“What? No…I mean, uh, why do you say that?”
Zevara eyed the suddenly sweaty young man.
“Curiosity. So I won’t be needing to talk to him anytime soon?”
“Whaaaat? No! Say, is that bike in the hallway yours? I thought it was familiar! Kevin—er—Kevin got it for you after he ran your tail over like three times in three different cities, right?”
Kevin. Suddenly, Zevara sobered up and stopped having fun giving Joseph the third degree. She nodded shortly.
“He did. I should donate it, but I was having fun riding it around, and he’s…dead. It might be the first gift I keep. If that’s appropriate.”
Now, Joseph looked like he wanted to sink into the ground. He cast a glance at the stairs where Randy had vanished, cursing.
“That bastard—you doing good, Watch Captain?”
“I buried Guardsman Jeiss and other good [Guards] during the Solstice, Joseph. Tekshia Shivertail—I didn’t know Kevin that well. You were friends. Don’t worry about me.”
Now why did he seem so guilty about that? Joseph ducked his head. Then he focused on Zevara and took a breath.
“I, uh—I think Randy will have a word with you soon. He’s just really stretched out. Seriously. Say, do you know how to ride that bicycle?”
She raised her brows at him, amused.
“I got around.”
“Cool, cool. Gears and everything? Kevin says—said—that none of his clients ever figured out how fast the bicycles are. Bunch of rich people who can’t make it zoom.”
Zevara hesitated and tried not to reach for the manual.
“The what now?”
 
——
 
They said the safest and nicest roads on Izril were Drake trade roads, and it was probably true. They were actually paved, regularly patrolled, and wide. Wide enough for two wagons to rumble abreast on each side of the road at all times, and there were always people on them.
Drakes and, occasionally, Gnolls or other species watched as Joseph shot down the road at a speed only a Runner or someone on horseback could match. When he braked, it was so hard he nearly went over; he shouted as he did a front wheelie, then thunked back down. He turned and waved at Zevara, who jogged over.
“It goes that fast?”
She was astounded—but the flat roads outside Pallass with the fresh, dry spring air were so different from Liscor’s cobblestone streets. Joseph grinned.
“Well, I’ve got decent legs. But I bet you could hit that—or even faster! This isn’t like a regular bicycle, Kevin says. It already has amazing efficiency on the pedals, but you can keep cranking up the speed so long as your legs have strength. See?”
Because of Hedault’s enchantments, it was possible to switch the ‘gears’ via a lever on the bicycle which made it harder to pedal, but increased how much force each rotation added. Zevara tried it out as Joseph explained.
“He just figured out how to do the gears before the Winter Solstice. Well, I say tried, but he got help. [Blueprint: Gear System] or something like that. He showed me this trick. So you want to go fast and switch the gears up every three-to-four rotations. Once you hit max, you can fly on the open road. He reckons he passed forty miles per hour without Skills!”
He didn’t seem as affected by Kevin’s death after a few months, or perhaps he simply had too much practice. Zevara nodded as she tried to do what he’d shown her. Twice, she changed gears too fast and had to fix the chain, and another time—she had to swerve and crash into the grass, but she’d been speeding up when she nearly hit some pedestrians!
“This thing…takes a lot of effort!”
Zevara was over Level 30 in two [Warrior]-type classes, but she was amazed how hard she had to pedal. Joseph nodded.
“You won’t catch me going that fast. Even with [Metabolic Boost]—my legs are shot.”
He was wearing his football coach’s uniform and grinned at her as Zevara picked up her bike, growing more impressed with it despite the grass stains on her and her tweaked tail. Someone shouted as a carriage rumbled past.
“Coach Joseph! Coach Joseph!”
“Oh shit, fans.”
Joseph spun and waved, then grinned at a group of children screaming and waving at him. And the father, too. He hesitated, then pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“Cheer on Pallass’ Engineers! Here, a souvenir! [Pinpoint Shot]!”
Then he kicked the ball straight into the carriage in a gentle arc. Zevara blinked as a huge cheer erupted from the windows.
“That’s a good shot, even with that Skill. You have to account for motion and wind current…”
He winked at her.
“Lots of practice. Most of what I do is kicking the ball for people in practice. Everyone on my team is better than I am.”
“Well, you’re the [Coach]. Isn’t that like a [Captain]? I’m not expected to be a better fighter than my [Guards], like Relc or Klbkch.”
He seemed a lot…steadier than the drunk, miserable young man she vaguely recalled when he’d first come to Erin’s inn. He was watching her as she sat herself on the bicycle.
“You good, Watch Captain?”
“Hm? Of course. I’m just bored without a job to do, that’s all. I’m told mine will get easier soon. Perhaps I’ll find more work or—something.”
She’d have to fill her time. Training the recruits, since leading patrols seemed to be disastrous. She could take up cycling on her days off. It wouldn’t be bad to just…see more of Izril. From Pallass or Celum, she could go a good ways. Zevara sighed as she coughed up some more smoke, then nodded at Joseph.
“Thanks, Coach.”
He winced.
“Please don’t call me that, Captain. I’ll call you Zevara and you can never call me ‘Coach’ again. Deal?”
She grinned at him, surprising the young man.
“Very well. Some days, I still feel like I’m not fit to be called Watch Captain. As you were, Joseph.”
“I hope not.”
He put his hands in his pockets, and for some reason, she glanced back at him as she pedaled towards Pallass. That was the first and only thing Joseph had ever said that she was in complete, utter agreement with. Zevara raised a hand, and he nodded at her.
 
——
 
…Six minutes later, Joseph jogged back towards the gates.
“Hey, guys, guys! She’s with me! Sorry, Zevara.”
The Watch Captain was getting the third degree from the gate guards, who’d only been too happy to let her and Joseph out, but had demanded to see her passport and know why she was entering the Walled City.
She supposed being a famous [Coach] had a lot of privileges. Joseph hadn’t been on Pallass’ day-entry lists either. She nodded at him, embarrassed, as the [Guards] let her through.
She caught the door to Esthelm instead of Liscor. Zevara spent the rest of her day cycling up the road, then back when she realized Celum was way too far to try on the first day. By the time she got back to The Wandering Inn, her legs were shot from using new muscles, and she was exhausted.
Perfect. She scarfed a meal, then went for a long soak in the local bathhouses. Then she’d hit the hay and sleep. A day off destroyed. Finally, back to work. Perfect.
 
——
 
Zevara’s eyes focused on the sun as she stepped out of the bathhouse, hucking a used towel into the bin. There was a dim glow behind the rainclouds, true, but still bright enough to illuminate Liscor. The sun, which could not even charitably be described as ‘setting’.
It was 3 PM. Her bike ride, her visit to the inn, even her bath house visit had only managed to kill nine hours.
“Ancestors kill me.”
She was doomed. If she napped now, she’d be up all night! Woebegone, Zevara stood in the entrance to the bath house where attendants checked people in, unwilling to step out into the rain after she’d just gotten nice and dry.
It was one thing to bathe in the hot, scented baths, another to drench yourself in the cold rain. Belatedly, Zevara realized she’d shot herself in the foot. She’d taken an hour at most in the baths and considered that to be a lot of time because, well, she was operating like she was still working.
She should have stayed there until she was four hours in and her scales were thick from taking on water! Well, actually, that was a good way to develop scale problems, but still.
What do I do? I shouldn’t have had that damn drink! That also made it hard to do some things. Sweating her tail off and then having a hot bath probably also didn’t help.
Hydration. Zevara surreptitiously found a pitcher of water and poured herself a few cups. She drank, exhaling, and then checked a timepiece in the bath house.
3:02 PM.
If she slept at 8 PM, she could get ten full hours of sleep for duty tomorrow, start fresh and early. So she just had to kill 5 more hours. Dinner…well, she wasn’t that hungry.
What did she do? Zevara didn’t want to go back to the inn—she was too restless, and didn’t fit it like the regular guests. If not the inn, then…
Maybe go visit Bobble after all? That was a bad idea, even if he knew her. A lone [Guard] walking into the Steer was the beginning of a dark joke. And yet, it called to her.
Or perhaps the southwest district did? What was it? Zevara rubbed at her chin, and she could not escape it, but there was a feeling in the back of her mind. That of…of…
Of missing something. Of grime. Filthy water flashing by her claws. But was it the [Watch Captain] who felt it or the [Guardswoman]? Both?
The Drake stood, letting dripping water run down her claw, oblivious to the odd looks the customers in the bathhouse were giving her. Her mind was a jumble with the drink she’d had, restlessness, today and otherwise.
“Kevin. Poor Kevin. Soot is dead, and with him, old Liscor. And Kevin…”
Her mind kept going back to him because of the bike. Kevin was new Liscor. Technically Esthelm, but he was a new wave of change with his bicycles, annoying as they were. More than even Erin. If Soot was the old, Erin was the change, but Kevin had been that breaking edge of the wave. He would have understood this city. Zevara was the old, the fading—but why did she think she was still needed?
She might have stood there for the next 5 hours, just thinking, but something broke her out of her reverie. The rain stopped.
A family of five Gnolls running for the bathhouse halted. They, like Zevara, stared up incredulously. It wasn’t time for the rains to end! Was it a fluke, a rare moment of reprieve?
A glowing red shield of light covered the entire street as pedestrians halted and pointed. The rain sleeted off it, and Zevara blinked—then she heard laughter.
Two people exited the private bathing rooms, one of them giggling, the other laughing in a deep, familiar voice. She knew that voice. The huge Drake was arm-in-arm with an older woman, whose robes glittered with magic.
“Relc?”
The Senior Guardsman and Archmage Valeterisa had been in the bathhouse! It was Valeterisa whose magic casually covered the street. She floated out of the door as Relc collected a bag of holding from the awed attendants. He tipped them some coins as she floated down.
“I must go to dinner with Salamani, Relc. Grimalkin should make it—he may bring Lady Pryde. Do you wish to come?”
“Nah, I’m not one for all the [Mage] talk. No offense. And isn’t it in Invrisil?”
“Mm, it’s very technical, and we’re headhunting more [Mages]. There’s some drunk High Mage north of here. Another outcast of Wistram—I will see you tonight, then.”
Valeterisa winked in what Zevara thought might have been a suggestive manner, then turned red. She flew up and waved energetically at Relc, who waved back, grinning like a damn loon.
Relc and Valeterisa. The oddest match in the world. The Watch House hadn’t believed it for over a month. Even then, you forgot…Valeterisa flew skyward, and the bubble of her magic encased her. But the shield over the street did not.
She’d left it for Relc. Talk about a show of admiration.
He stood there, grinning, then glanced around and saw Zevara and jumped.
“Captain Z! I mean, uh, Zevara—I didn’t see you there!”
“Hello, Senior Guardsman—er, Relc.”
They were so awkward off-duty; Relc grinned, and Zevara shuffled her feet. She gestured lamely at the magical barrier.
“That’s a nice gift. Here I was worried about getting wet.”
“Ah, well, she likes this kind of thing. It’s really embarrassing. And everyone stares, but…that’s Valeterisa for you. Crazy she and I are still a thing, huh? I bet I wouldn’t last the month in the pool.”
He knew about the betting pool? That made Zevara feel bad for him. She frowned, and they walked out of the bathhouse, glancing up at the magical shields.
“I didn’t put money down. I just thought it was something that happened because of the inn.”
“Oh, definitely, the inn. Gotta thank Erin for that and the beach. No chance without that.”
Relc chuckled, and Zevara floundered a moment before exhaling some smoke.
“No—I meant I could see it, Relc. Maybe it was chance, but you’re our [Spearmaster]. If an Archmage was going to be interested in anyone, it would be someone of your level.”
The compliment made Relc turn, and he finally picked up what she was saying. To her surprise, he blushed, and his tail wagged a bit in the rain.
“Aw, Zevara. C’mon, you know she can do better.”
Didn’t a bunch of people die in her mansion because she didn’t even notice they were there or something? Still, Relc clearly thought the world of her, which made Zevara gloomy.
I wish Calruz were still here. But not as a prisoner. Damn it, does he get leave from the army? What am I thinking? It could never have worked.
But she had admired his honor, wounded or not. That unbreaking sense of honor—and guilt—was something that seemed cleaner than her own heart. Despite all his sins, she could never have believed he had done those heinous things by himself.
And yet, and yet—she and he could never walk Liscor’s streets together. So it hurt and smarted—especially when they came to the end of the street, and Relc actually groaned.
“Oh no, she didn’t. Valley…”
The next street had a barrier spell over it, and the next! She’d cast a rain barrier all the way back to the door to the inn!
I hate you so much. I envy you so much. Because she could say neither without being pathetic, Zevara cleared her throat.
“I’ll walk with you back to the inn. I don’t have much to do on my day off.”
The [Spearmaster] hesitated, and she raised an eyebrow. Relc coughed.
“I’m not really in a hurry to go back there. I’m only planning on dinner, if that. It’s—well, hard after the incident. I mean, you know what happened.”
“Sort of. Goblin King, that Goblin Lord…the spells hitting the inn and Liscor. But nothing more than that.”
She waited, and Relc just exhaled.
“Yeah. That’s enough. I can’t talk about the rest. You wouldn’t believe me even if I told you.”
“I’ve seen inn-events before. Even then?”
His face was shadowed.
“Even then. You missed the biggest one yet.”
After that, what could be said? They stood in uncomfortable silence. Zevara broke it the only way she knew: she jerked her head.
“Walk with me?”
“Sure.”
They headed into the rain, pulling hoods over their heads, abandoning Valeterisa’s gift to Relc. But they were Liscorians; the rain was second-nature, and they chatted as they walked down the sidewalks.
“I swore I heard someone say ‘Soot’. Was that you, Zevara?”
“Mm. Reminiscing.”
Relc spat to the side into a gutter.
“That’s for Soot and his gang.”
Zevara copied him, smiling faintly, but then she grew serious. She brushed at her neck spines, tangling with her hood, and glanced at the busy streets that had a Human nailing up a new sign. Another new shop?
“The city’s full of movement, Relc. All this gold and business. Did you know Hamhock’s closed? An Antinium bought the place.”
“Hamhocks? No! I liked that place! Cheapest ham in Liscor!”
Relc was as stricken as she was, which made Zevara feel instantly better. She told him about the pet cafe, and he shook his head.
“Those Antinium. I’m glad for them, even if I never got to give Valley a Hamhock original.”
“Good way to lose her.”
“Point! Hah. But I hope they’re okay. They’re sort of…gullible, you know?”
Zevara’s tail swished a serpentine trail in the water as she frowned.
“No. I mean, yes, but what are you referring to exactly?”
Relc shrugged, trying to word what he meant.
“They’re just…naive. I saw it with Klbkch all the time. Someone tells them something, they do it. Remember that idiot who went around snatching Antinium’s tools and they gave it to him because they thought he needed them?”
“Right, I remember. And no one paid attention until there were complaints about Antinium standing around with empty hands.”
Something was making Zevara’s neck spines itch. Yet she just walked with Relc—until she realized she was taking them to the southwestern district again. Relc peered around.
“Dicey streets for a fun walk, Captain. I heard you went to the Steer yesterday. With rookies?”
He gave her a reproachful look, and she flushed.
“It was safe. Bobble was at the bar or I’d have taken them out. He knows the score.”
“All it takes is one idiot and the Steer goes up faster than a Corusdeer’s horns…eh, you always had a better read on stuff like that than me. Feels like the old gangs aren’t as big as they used to be. Or is that me? We’re mostly dealing with petty crime, disputes, monsters. Not the Soot gang stuff.”
She thought about that as they walked past more dilapidated buildings clearly in the midst of renewal. There were a few tougher types walking down the street. Drakes and a Gnoll on the hunt for a mark, maybe. They took one look at Zevara and Relc and avoided the two. Even if they didn’t recognize either one, Relc seemed like trouble, former [Soldier] that he was.
Off-duty or not, the two members of the Watch eyed the group of four, and Zevara would have tailed them to make sure no one ran afoul of the lot. They appeared ready for a fight. Relc glanced at them and tilted his head. Zevara shrugged, and they turned around.
Not that they were ready for a scrap, but you had to at least walk a street or two, right? She kept her voice low as they tailed the group of four.
“I think the gangs are absorbing new blood. They’ll be active again soon. Everyone’s building up.”
“Greaaat. Well, that squares with what Valley is doing.”
“Isn’t she building a magical academy or something?”
Relc smiled. The group of four kept eying people, mostly Humans, and Zevara had a feeling they were searching for signs of gold. She had her sword and Relc, but she wished she had armor on. Ah, well. She was looking around for a loose cobblestone. Always nice to throw one if you had to scrap. Relc went to pull his spear out of his bag of holding, but thought better of it and pretended to be scuffing mud from his boots.
“It’s hush-hush. But she thinks around here is the place to be. It’s gonna be real big, Zevara. It’s all too technical for me. Leylines and protective spells—even compressed dimensions so they can make it bigger. They want to bind it in the middle of a mountain! I was asking about structural support, but they plan on making a reinforced cage—and the real academy’s inside. So it’s tough as hell. Apparently, Wistram was made on the same principles.”
It sounded like he was absorbing some arcane magic. Zevara grimaced.
“I hope they’re not planning on that much gold from Liscor. We can’t buy enough magic for an Archmage or an academy, Relc. They’d need to pull from all of Izril.”
“They will. But Valley was talking with some people who have inside knowledge. M—Lord Raithland.”
Zevara’s head snapped up, and she forgot about the quartet for a second.
“What’s he doing? I heard he was talking to the Council and maybe even trying to get elected.”
She was trying to read Relc’s face, but he was hard in this moment. The Drake hooked two thumb-claws in his belt.
“Yeah…he’d be doing that. He just told Valley that the city would have enough to sell. Put her onto a few items she’d want to buy herself. I was asking if things—aligned—with his vision of the future, but he says he found some of the stuff he knows will be big on the streets. Not sure what those are, though. You know [Mages] love their secrets. Weirdly, he was asking about you, Captain Z, and whether or not I wanted to stay as a [Guard].”
Oh, she didn’t like that. However, Zevara couldn’t ask about the mysterious half-Giant and whether he was really Moore’s uncle. The quartet of Drakes and one Gnoll had found a mark.
“Damn, [Trader].”
Some idiot had coin. A [Merchant], even? He had three bodyguards, but he was strolling down the street, glancing at Antinium. Zevara didn’t see more; she was focused on the quartet.
They saw money, and they could do math. It was four-on-four, but that was including the [Merchant].
I’d try to take out the three [Bodyguards] if I could swing first. She strode forward with Relc, ready to shout a warning. They had to wait for the four to attack first, then move fast…
But the moment to intervene never occurred. Just as one of the [Bodyguards] noticed the dangerous saunter of the four [Toughs], someone detached themselves from an alleyway and moved into the path of the four men.
Another fellow. With a hat. Instantly, Zevara and Relc recognized a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. So did the [Toughs]. The man had a big bowler hat on, and he tipped it to the three Drakes and one Gnoll and made a light comment.
In the rain, he stood, and they—hesitated. They were glancing at the [Merchant], who strode on, cursing about the rain, and the [Bodyguards] eyed the man with the hat, but neither side engaged. The [Toughs] wanted to, but they looked at the Brother, at his hat—and then one cursed and stomped past him.
Away. The Brother ambled after them, but paused to tip his hat at the two Drakes.
“Evening, sir and miss! Hope you enjoy your walk, wet as it is. Don’t fret nor worry! This is a good, clean street!”
Then he was gone, whistling a tune that Zevara found slightly haunting. She hesitated and then realized she had a cobblestone in one hand. She tossed it down and let the rain clean her hands.
“Wow. I’ve never seen someone stop a fight without us like that. Did you see how he backed them off, Captain? Even we couldn’t do it that smooth.”
Relc frowned at the Brother’s back, and Zevara murmured.
“The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. They’re here in the city in force. Looks like the patrols’ reports are accurate. The local gangs don’t even mess with them.”
“That wasn’t even a gang, just four guys searching for a mark. Has word spread that fast?”
Relc didn’t have his ear to the ground. He probably had it on Valeterisa’s stomach. Zevara grimaced at him.
“Bobble was upset. I heard of a few fights when they came into the city. Quick and to the point. The Brothers already had a reputation for throwing down. The ones who went toe-to-toe with the Draugr didn’t hurt, and I think that reputation gets tested often.”
Relc whistled.
“That guy looked good enough to take those four out. I’ll give them that. So…when are we gonna smack this group?”
He punched a fist into his hand, grinning, and Zevara blew smoke out of her mouth as they turned and kept ambling the way they’d been going.
“It’s not high on my list, Relc.”
“Whaaa? Captain Zevara Sunderscale, backing out of taking on a gang?”
Relc’s jaw opened, and he gave her an incredulous expression, but he was mostly joking. He twitched his tail as another Brother strode on by—with some boards of wood of all things. He paused to hammer on a door.
“I’ve got a quick fix for that leak, Miss!”
They watched as the door opened and a flustered housewife let him in—he even had a hammer and nails. Zevara eyed Relc.
“Not high on the list. You ever see a gang who repairs leaks in roofs?”
“Could be an act.”
She nodded, allowing that.
“It could be, but I don’t get many complaints about them, Relc. And it’s complaints I listen to as the Watch. I’d rather take on the Switchknife Gang than the Brothers. They’re on my list, but low down, if that makes sense.”
“Hmm. I think I get it. They don’t rock things much, do they?”
That was Zevara’s internal criteria for trouble. The worst elements in a city were the ones who preyed on the innocent or those unable to defend themselves. She didn’t want any gangs in Liscor, but she knew she’d never stamp them out. Get rid of one and another came up like a mushroom. She bared her teeth.
“Switchknife robs people in alleys. The Brothers? Not nearly as bad or as fatal for civilians. Now, the moment I hear about them mugging someone, I’ll go after them. But it’s also about tactics. The Brothers are good fighters according to rumor. Have you seen them fight?”
“A few times. They are good.”
Relc’s face was shadowed a moment, and she knew it related to the inn. Zevara nodded tightly.
“I want them dead to rights, then. Solid offensive if I have to push it, that takes them out of the city or weakens them. Anything less and they send reinforcements in. That’s how big gangs work. But mostly…”
She glanced over her shoulder, and she wondered if that was a fluke or if they really did patrol their territory like the Watch. Relc murmured.
“I’ve only got so many fists to go around, and I’d rather punch someone than waste my time on those guys. That’s it, Zevara?”
The [Guardswoman] smiled at Relc.
“At least until they step out of line. Anyways, enough of that. Does Valeterisa always do that kind of magic for you? I heard she flew a lunch to you the other day.”
“Aw, Zevara. Are you gonna grill me on this too?”
“I’m the one asking questions, Relc. How serious is this?”
“You sound like her apprentice. We just—like each other, alright? She has good taste in tails. And maybe she uses magic a lot, but it’s really cool. We were going to do a bubble bath in the inn, but the last time her bubbles filled the entire room, and Lyonette got mad. But I tell you what, anti-gravity spells are super fun. Not just in general or in the bedroom—”
“Okay, you can stop talking.”
Despite that, she enjoyed her walk with Relc through the rain. He was indeed far steadier than the Senior Guardsman of a year or two ago. A [Guard] dating an Archmage. Her only point of dismay was, once, when they were eating dinner in The Wandering Inn and she saw him chatting with some of the [Necromancers] and it hit her.
He had adapted to the new Liscor.
It was she who was falling behind. On that unsettling note, Zevara finally grew tired enough to sleep. Work was far easier than all these odd thoughts.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara got back to her job and was relieved for it. Even if, well, things were different.
When she got into work that morning, Relc was sitting in an office, quill in his clawed hand, writing.
She stared at him so long he looked up.
“Hey, Captain Zevara. I know, I know. This is weird for me too. But look on the bright side: Valeterisa gave me a quill that corrects my spelling. Or tries to.”
She walked over and saw his handwriting was more legible than normal—but the magical quill seemed to have been fighting a terrible battle already.
“Are you sure you can handle things?”
“Who, me? Sure. I got called into Venim’s office, and he walked me through everything yesterday. It’s just boring work, filling things out and making sure everything adds up.”
Zevara opened her mouth to tell him that he was taking the job lightly, but then she caught herself.
“It is sort of like that. It’s more about making sure there’s a record. Of everything.”
He had to double-check reports and sign off on requests for budgets. She was going to tell him to be careful, but Relc signed his name with a flourish on the sheets.
“I’ve had to do it as a desk-sergeant before, Captain. Don’t even worry, Venim’s getting his people to check this stuff over. See? I’m even checking it against our budget.”
He had a sheet and was adding up the expense requests. Like…he knew what he was doing. Zevara kept staring until she saw his tail twitching and him glancing up at her.
“Right, well, you seem to be doing a good job, Relc. Let me know if you have trouble.”
He gave her a thumbs up and a toothy grin.
“Will do, Captain! You’re supposed to not even touch the administrative paperwork—Venim says we might get you a helper anyways. What’re you going to do with all your time?”
“Take a nap for once?”
She was half-serious, but Relc and a passing [Guard] laughed like it was the most inconceivable thing in the world. Zevara went up to her office, and in defiance of Venim, she pulled out all the paperwork she could find.
“Right. Fewer responsibilities. Right.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t like there was no job to do as Watch Captain. Zevara did do some of it; she had to go downstairs when a fight started with some people being hauled in, she talked to a patrol that had messed up and arrested the wrong Gnoll, and she scrambled some [Guards] to deal with a traffic jam down one of the main streets.
It was just that she had run her Watch House well enough and she knew the job such that she could handle all of this, which gave her hours upon hours of time she had to fill where she’d usually be catching up on paperwork or dealing with three times as many problems. But since her area of operations had been cut to a literal fourth of what it had been…
Wait, did the math work like that? Zevara had been in charge of 3rd District and the old city. Her new area was one third of original Liscor, as Venim, Beilmark, and Ronss’ districts all took one section.
Was that really three times as many problems or close to four? Zevara was trying to do some math with a map and a few idle sums on a piece of paper just after 10 o’clock…which indicated how desperate she was already.
Relc poked his head out of his office as she gave up on the mathematics.
“Hey, Captain Zevara, you wanna take the day off like Venim said? Not much to do.”
“I’ve got plenty to do, Relc!”
She tried to find it, she really did. But checking the state of the [Guards]’ lockers, training recruits in the practice courts, inspecting the mess room’s cleanliness…it all gave Zevara the vibe of being a nitpicking control freak rather than actual work.
She might have to take the week off after all. But then what? Zevara was re-filing all her paperwork in a vain attempt to stay in-office a few more minutes. In truth, quitting now and going for a bike ride or finding something else to do vaguely appealed to her.
I could have another drink. Or see how Bobble’s doing. Play some dice games in the Steer for old time’s sake. Go shopping in Invrisil.
Clean my apartment.
She was so desperate not to do any of these things that Zevara almost cried when she found a piece of paper that was her salvation. She read it, then shot from her desk.
“Sergeant Relc, I’ve found it!”
She brandished the paper at him, and Relc blinked at it. He’d put two reading spectacles on the bridge of his snout.
“Oh, hey. The dead crimes list. You go, Watch Captain.”
Zevara had, in her hands, the ultimate resort of the Watch if they had nothing else to do. On this sheet, this very short sheet, was a list of all the issues that Senior Guards had found and deemed worthy of the Watch’s time…but couldn’t get to.
‘Who Killed Mr. Soot?’, for instance, or ‘Is There a Racoon on Hiscale Street?’. In truth, the dead crimes list was short and unimportant. If it mattered, it wasn’t on the list. Which would have hurt old Soot’s feelings, but the Watch hadn’t had the resources to look into his death given how mysterious it had been. Nevertheless, Zevara adjusted her armor and nodded to Relc.
“I’m going out to check the cases.”
“You want backup, Captain?”
She hesitated.
“Most of this isn’t worthy of another [Guard]’s time. Besides, I’m the Watch Captain. I don’t have a partner.”
Senior Guards always had partners. Relc frowned at her.
“If you’re doing the first one about Soot, you can’t go anywhere dangerous without a partner, Watch Captain. Those are your own rules.”
She cursed, knowing he was right.
“I’ll stick to safe streets, and I won’t interview any of the gangs. But I know just where to start…”
She rubbed her hands. It might not result in much aside from their own, personal satisfaction, but the Watch had to know how Soot had died! Conclusively! It might take months of interviews, solid work piecing together clues…she strode out the door and into the rain. A few seconds later, Relc reached for a parasol and handed it to Zevara without a word.
Only after she was gone did he start laughing and holding his aching sides. So did a bunch of [Guards] downstairs. It was really, really hard to not do that when she was around.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara’s search into the death of Mister Soot led her straight to her first and only witness: Mrsha du Marquin. As the girl had been kidnapped by the Raskghar, Zevara had hopes Mrsha would shed some light onto their actions.
Mrsha was the first and only witness because she closed the entire case. She was licking her nose over breakfast, trying to get some yogurt off it.
Mister Soot? Nokha killed him. She and her Raskghar ate his bodyguards. And him. I thought you knew? Nokha’s dead now. Chieftain Torishi killed her.
“I, uh—what?”
Zevara lowered her notepad. Mrsha wiped at her nose with a napkin.
I saw it.
“You saw it? You were there, personally?”
Mrsha hesitated.
No…it’s very complex, Watch Captain, and I could explain it for like four hours with lots of tears, or you could believe me. I saw it. Nokha did it. Case closed.
The girl who had seen too much in the [Palace of Fates] was a mystery to Zevara, and while the Watch Captain didn’t know why Mrsha’s gaze was so unsettlingly vast, she did know that Mrsha’s comments were almost undeniably true. Lamely, she scribbled in her notepad.
“I, uh…well, I need proof about this.”
You could ask the Raskghar that Pallass took. Some of them probably knew Nokha did it, or even did the eating.
…Like that, the girl shot down even the hopes of Zevara stretching this one out. The Watch Captain put her head down on the table.
“I can make an inquiry into Pallass. It’ll take weeks, but they will get back to us. Thank you.”
You’re very welcome, Watch Captain. Want some yogurt? I’m banned from doing anything else cool. Mom’s outside screaming about the New Lands of Liscor.
“The what now?”
 
——
 
When Watch Captain Zevara went outside, she got a shock. Lyonette was outside, appearing rather—impressive? She seemed to draw the eye as she strode back and forth, pointing at what was indeed new land—and a bunch of undead at war with each other.
Half of Rheirgest was present, and the brawl between undead was strange. Half of them were just hauling dirt up and piling it on a huge, sodden length of earth that had expanded around the hill The Wandering Inn stood at. An entire football field’s worth of earth had been piled up, and more undead were working—even as skeletons attacked them!
Zevara didn’t get why until she saw a zombie, visibly rotting and half-eaten by fish, hauling dirt up and dropping it on the ground. Scotty the Skeleton tackled it with a knife in hand and sawed its head off, but more were coming.
“It’s a mass-animation spell, just like Miss Arrema said, Miss Lyonette! We’re trying to suppress them, but they just keep coming!”
Elosaith was shaking his head in awe. Lyonette pointed.
“And the trees?”
“Earth magic, nothing to do with us.”
Several small saplings were growing out of the ground! Zevara’s jaw dropped as Lyonette paced back and forth.
“This is—no, it’s not Erin’s fault. This is my fault. But how? All I said was…”
The [Princess] was having a Solstice event. You could just tell; Zevara eased her sword in its sheath, but it didn’t seem to be a bad one. Several guests were sipping drinks from the cover of the magical barrier. Even so, it was distressing Lyonette. She buried her head in her hands.
“Oh no. Oh no!”
“Oh yes!”
Elosaith actually jumped in the air and punched upwards. Lyonette covered her face as Zevara closed the door. She found Mrsha chowing down on more yogurt.
“Not going out there?”
Nope. I’m being good. Are you?
“It’s out of my jurisdiction.”
For some reason, that really hurt to say. Mrsha patted Zevara on the arm.
You did good, Watch Captain Zevara. But no one oversees the inn, I guess.
“It’s still technically part of Liscor. Someone should.”
Zevara muttered at the ground. In fact, she was thinking that some kind of powerful earth-and-death-magic conduit was just the sort of thing a Watch Captain should be part of. If only to report what it meant to the Council.
She was hurrying back outside as a Gnoll with brown fur leaned on the Chemath Marble and spoke to Lyonette.
“Yep, Ma. That here’s some good death magic alright. Reckon we’re oversaturated, yup, yup. Old Chemath Marble pyramid. I heard about it in my books. Valeterisa might know more, but this here’s a problem. Ptuy.”
She was putting on a very bad country accent as she spat on the ground. Lyonette was groaning.
“Can’t you disenchant it, Arrema?”
“Who, me? Do I look like an Archmage? It’s soaked up more magic than me, Grimalkin, and Valeterisa have put together!”
Arrema looked like she was rather enjoying this problem. Lyonette cursed.
“Well then, risk assessment. What are the effects?”
“Looks like the undead do what you say. And so do the Bush Shamblers.”
“But they—already do that?”
“Right, but now they’re being empowered, and you have control over lots of undead.”
“Why me?”
Everyone just gazed at her. The [Princess] was breathing hard, and she’d put her hair back in a bun today, and she had on her working apron—but the very air just screamed royalty at Zevara. Lyonette saw several rogue undead stop before her. They put down their piles of dirt and knelt.
“All hail Her Majesty, Queen of Skeletons!”
Arrema threw up her hands. Several Antinium and Rheirgest villagers did likewise.
“Hail! Hail! H—”
They were having too much fun with this. Zevara ducked back into the inn.
“It seems safe. The—friendly undead are dealing with the rogue ones. But I’m going to have to report this to Venim.”
She told the other guests, who were also assessing risk. Mrsha just finished her yogurt and pushed her bowl back with a sigh.
Poor Watch Commander Venim.
True, it was going to be his headache, which Zevara did find nice. She smiled at Mrsha reassuringly.
“He understands the inn enough, Mrsha. Don’t worry.”
The little girl raised her eyebrows at Zevara.
Hm? No, I meant I hope his fragile spirit can take living with The Wandering Inn. He’s a weak man. Too sparing with desserts by far. Would you serve dessert before dinner, Zevara?
The Watch Captain had no idea where this was coming from. She floundered.
“Uh, no? I think it’d ruin your appetite.”
Mrsha pointed her quill at Zevara.
That’s the Watch Captain integrity I admire. Oh, there goes more trouble.
Someone brushed past Zevara, wearing the badge of Liscor. She spun. A Drake? She glanced at Mrsha, who, again, uncharacteristically didn’t rise, and then hurried out after him.
If some idiot was going to start a fuss, she, Zevara, should get involved. So the Watch Captain put on her best ‘I am important’ Watch Captain stride. Besides, she was curious what all this was about.
“Lyonette, a w—”
The other official interrupted her the moment he strode out onto the sodden grass.
“Miss Marquin! Delighted to see you this fine morning! Geillsten, we’ve met before. I’m just here for the usual business, I hope I don’t take up any time.”
A Drake with a clipboard appeared in front of Zevara, and she halted. Geillsten? Why was that name so…Lyonette turned and blinked.
“Oh, hello, Zevara, Geillsten. I can assure you two, that this isn’t an issue that will bother—”
“That’s a matter for the Watch and Council, Miss Marquin. I’m just here in my capacity, I won’t interrupt the Watch Captain, but I did want to serve you notice I’ll be doing my calculations this morning. I hope to present you with the bill by evening, but you know it sometimes takes more time in extraordinary circumstances such as these.”
The Drake was very excited. Zevara slowed and peered at him, then remembered who he was. Lyonette frowned and then developed an expression of faint alarm.
“Wait. Aren’t you—”
“The [Tax Collector], yes! Highest-levelled in the city, which, aha, isn’t much, I know. But I have the ability to calculate what any property owes, and I’m just—whoops—excuse me.”
He was very excited and almost dropped the abacus he was pulling out. He caught it with shaking claws, and Lyonette turned pale.
Zevara was well familiar with guilty expressions, and Lyonette didn’t seem to have the expression of someone who couldn’t pay her yearly fee. Rather…she seemed to be more worried about what Geillsten was calculating.
“All the fees we owe, Master Geillsten? How would you calculate that, exactly?”
“Well, my Skill is very in-depth, Miss Lyonette, but we’d be checking income taken in against expenses—don’t worry, this is what a Skill is for! No receipts needed!”
“Absolutely, Master Geillsten, but I have a suspicion—what with all those armies we were serving, and you know, is there a way we can pay a set amount of taxes? Something highly—very—generous? There’s a max cap on taxes, aren’t there?”
The Drake laughed so hard he had trouble keeping hold of all his tools.
“A max cap on taxes, my word, Miss Lyonette! Ah, well, jokes aside, we do have programs that allow for a wealthier individual to pay certain capped amounts. It’s pre-calculated based on previous years of income—the Guilds take advantage of it, you know. The Council was trying to repeal the law, but that’s one of the election issues, I think.”
I bet the Guilds do. Zevara hadn’t known that, but it left a sour taste in her mouth. Lyonette wavered.
“We have significant tax incentives—”
Geillsten was almost ready. He had his quill in one hand, umbrella in the crook of his arm, and the abacus balanced on his forearm. He answered Lyonette as he dipped the quill in ink.
“Which I am going to calculate into your bill. We just need to do the math. If you’d stop suppressing my Skill with that aura, Miss Lyonette?”
His eyes glinted, and Zevara saw Lyonette glance at Arrema, who was just laughing softly as if she’d missed this, sadly and happily, then to Ushar, who took two steps to the side, and Lyonette exhaled.
“I do apologize, Master Geillsten. How’s this?”
He brightened up.
“Perfect, Miss Lyonette! And now, [Calcul—my eyes!”
The flash of light blinded him, and he dropped all his tools. Zevara spun as a Gnoll lowered his sunglasses. Then [Mathematician] Yelroan charged into Geillsten and knocked him down the hill. He snatched up the forms as Geillsten shouted.
“Wait! You can’t—this is assault on a [Tax Collector]! Help! H—”
Zevara saw Yelroan tear up two files before both Gnoll and Drake fell in the water. By the time the two came out, Arrema was on the ground, and Lyonette was adjusting her apron. She gave the wet Drake an apologetic smile.
“Thank you, Yelroan. As I was about to say, Master Geillsten?”
“What? Why are you stopping me from doing my duty? Watch Captain! Do you see this?”
She didn’t really like the Drake, who had called her in to enforce the law on people who simply couldn’t pay taxes one too many times. Still, Zevara faced Lyonette, who shot her an apologetic look.
“I see it, Master Geillsten. Lyonette, I am on duty. As Watch Captain of Liscor, I must insist you stop laying hands on our [Tax Collector].”
Lyonette gave her a familiar, sweet smile. Her blue eyes seemed to glow, and Zevara thought her voice seemed to shine.
“Of course, Watch Captain. But as a matter of fact, I must first inform you and Master Geillsten of a new development in The Wandering Inn.”
“Which is?”
Lyonette spread her arms like Pawn giving a benediction to his congregation.
“The Wandering Inn declares independence from Liscor. This area, including Rheirgest, is not part of the city’s jurisdiction.”
Zevara’s jaw dropped. Geillsten froze, scrabbling with his things.
“[Calculate—you can’t do that.”
“I just did.”
Lyonette folded her arms, and Arrema whooped. She beamed at the [Princess], who gave Zevara another abashed look.
“But why?”
Zevara felt hurt herself, and Lyonette replied slowly.
“Well—it’s not like the inn was ever truly part of Liscor, was it? It received patrols, and back then, it made sense. But we’re out of Watch jurisdiction these days. We trade with Liscor and will do so as long as relations are well, but we don’t need Liscor. In fact—I daresay Liscor has made it clear how it feels about the inn.”
Her eyes glinted as she surveyed the inn, which had been forced to relocate here for its own safety, and she nodded at Rheirgest’s folk.
“There is no rancor in it, but we will not be taxed, which I do confess is one of the main reasons I declared the inn’s separation. Please send for a [Diplomat] or the Council, Master Geillsten. If we need to re-ratify our agreements, we shall.”
“You—you can’t do that. Watch Captain, summon the Watch! They’re hoarding more gold than you or I can dream of! I don’t know how, but—”
The Drake was striding at Lyonette, furious now, ignoring Ushar and the other people blocking his way. But it was Lyonette whose voice pinned him in place.
“This is not part of your city, Master Geillsten. Turn around and come back with an army if you want to force me to do anything in my inn. But beware. I’ve heard there are Goblin Kings about.”
Her voice. It sent the Drake stumbling back as hard as if Yelroan had tackled him. Pale-faced, unable to even make a sound, he retreated away from the inn. Lyonette’s authority barred Geillsten from going to the magic door. Zevara herself had backed up several steps.
She’s levelled up. Her class has changed or she’s hit a capstone. That was the only explanation. Lyonette glanced at her, and the pressure on Zevara faded, but the [Princess] was becoming…
Like Erin. Zevara stood there, then turned.
“I’ll, uh—I’ll make sure Geillsten gets back in one piece.”
“Zevara, I only did this because I had to. You’re welcome here any time.”
Lyonette called at the Drake as Zevara stumbled down the hill, past the kneeling undead. Zevara turned and nodded.
“Just not as Watch Captain.”
She felt like the flash of guilt on Lyonette’s face was a tiny bit deserved. At least Mrsha, watching from one of the windows, gave her a tiny thumbs up.
Then Zevara ran after Geillsten before something ate him.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara had an interview with Venim in his office half an hour later. The city hall was a flurry of activity, and he was checking his uniform.
“Anything else to report, Watch Captain?”
“Only that Miss Lyonette’s got some kind of authority Skill. It’ll make arguing with her difficult, and I wouldn’t make it a show of force.”
“We’re not doing a show of force, Watch Captain. How can we with a Named-rank adventurer as one of her guards?”
He grimaced, and she felt better about that. Venim sighed.
“The Council’s up in arms about it, but if she’s serious…short of calling the army in, I don’t think there’s a way to force the inn to come to terms. They have the door, and it can’t be stolen. High Command in Pallass might say to seize a building like that—”
“Not The Wandering Inn.”
“…No.”
He agreed after a pause and sighed. Venim snatched a water-resistance ring up.
“Well, I’m headed to the meeting now, Watch Captain. I hope the rest of your day is simpler. I’ll put the request in to Pallass about the Soot case myself. Good initiative, that.”
He didn’t want her going with—? Right, she was the Watch Captain and he was the commander, now. Zevara stepped out of his office as he rushed out, and that was that.
Of course, Relc had to ask about what was going on, and she shared the gossip with the Watch House and with the people she met through the rest of the day.
Those she met while investigating the other dead crime cases, that was. Sadly, nothing was as dramatic as the Soot case, and…well, most of them were either solved or the plaintiffs didn’t care.
 
——
 
“Turns out it was a giant rat.”
“Not a racoon?”
“Nope, giant rat. We should’ve known, really. Racoons? Around Liscor? A Gnoll came through the other month, doing repairs to the plumbing, and sniffed it out. Called for an exterminator she knew herself.”
That was a rather rich district of Drakes with old money in the northwestern district. Zevara wrote this down, and then the Drake peered at her.
“What’s this about that wretched inn withdrawing from Liscor? Good riddance, I say. But, uh, what about the magic door?”
 
——
 
“Oh, the theft. Well, it’s not important. I withdraw my complaint! What’s this about the inn? Is this an election issue?”
A rather nervous Drake boy ducked out of sight as his mother waved her hand airily, and Zevara crossed off the theft of jewelry from her list. Domestic issues…
 
——
 
By the end of the day, Zevara was footsore and had either cleared all the dead crimes reports or written up a full report to be followed up on by patrols when time allowed. She was almost ready to go back to the Watch House and call it a day when she saw a final item scribbled at the bottom of the list in Relc’s hand. He must have done it yesterday during her day off.
Zevara almost ignored it, then read the location and decided she could do one more.
 
‘Colecutlet Street. [Carpenter] Laikos. No one saw the [Thief] and it’s petty theft, but maybe good to look at?’
 
Petty theft? If it was just someone stealing a purse, not even the Watch could work miracles. Zevara had done well at not yelling at Relc so far, but if he sent her all the way there for nothing…
 
——
 
When she got there, she realized why Relc had deemed it worthy of her report. And then Zevara felt it. For the first time, a hint of that old grease sliding over filth.
“Carpenter Laikos? I’m searching for a Carpenter Laikos, please.”
It was a group of Drakes doing repair-work on buildings in the rain. They were cursing, re-tiling a bad section of roof that had collapsed, fast as they could, but when she said the name, they all stopped and peered at each other.
“He’s not here.”
“Is he off-duty or—”
A burly [Carpenter] jerked a thumb to the left.
“No, he doesn’t work with us. Down the street. That building.”
She trotted down the street, then stopped. Another building was being worked on, but this one was being carefully decommissioned. More [Carpenters] were prying nails out of the building, salvaging good wood and breaking away the stuff too rotted or ancient for use. But not…Drakes.
“Laikos?”
A Worker prying nails out of the floor glanced up, and the entire group went still. Then Zevara saw the Worker come over, nervous.
“This one is known as Laikos, Watch Captain. It is an Autonomous Worker.”
“And you were stolen from?”
The Worker’s antennae twitched.
“Y-yes, Watch Captain. This one reports a theft of its personal goods. It—it—reported theft to the Watch, but it was informed the theft was reported too late. That the goods were stolen. The matter has not yet been reported to the Hive.”
It was the first time that Zevara had ever interviewed an Antinium in matters related to a crime. Any crime. The only Antinium who broke the law were Aberrations, and Klbkch had killed those.
She defaulted to her training.
“Tell me the events as they happened, Carpenter Laikos. The theft. I’ll take notes, and…we’ll see what we can do. Though if it was just a [Pickpocket] or [Thief], the odds are the goods have already been sold.”
“Sold? But they were this Worker Laikos’ possessions.”
The Worker wasn’t like the Antinium that Zevara was used to these days. This was an old Antinium—one of the ones who never used ‘I’. She saw the other Workers were milling about around it, all unpainted.
“I’m sorry. We’ll try to get it back if you can tell me what happened.”
Laikos didn’t respond at first. Then it spoke, voice still wobbly.
“This one recalls work at 3:47 PM on Lundas. It had completed 1:47 units of time before retrieving a resupply of nails from the Carpenter’s Guild. When crossing the street, Worker Laikos was knocked down. Upon reclaiming bucket of nails and calculating lost inventory, it realized it had lost personal item. It observed the personal item in the hands of another. Inquiry was launched. Inquiry ignored. Worker Laikos requested personal item again, and the other left at speed. Worker Laikos returned to work. After 4:00 units of time, it reported to the Watch Patrol of the incident and was informed that the item was stolen. Theft had occurred. Worker Laikos returned to work for 2 more rotations until approached by Watch Captain Zevara.”
It was…an extremely specific description lacking in anything she could use.
“Can you tell me which street this was?”
“Colecutlet Street.”
“I see. So right down this one? What was lost, exactly?”
“Twenty-one nails were lost in the gutter as well as a hand-hammer.”
“I meant, what was stolen?”
“…A personal object.”
Laikos’ voice went very quiet, and Zevara saw all the Antinium around him pause. She hesitated and felt like she was asking something intrusive, so she lowered her voice and motioned him away from the others.
“I need to know what this object was, Carpenter. Can you tell me?”
He stared at his feet and spoke after a long, long pause.
“It was…a personal object in the shape of a humanoid with fur on it. One black eye in a button, the other one missing. The fur is half an inch thick and covers the humanoid except on the paws, of which there are five fingers and a central pad. There are two arms and one leg—”
She was writing all this down when Zevara stopped.
“You mean a little doll? A Gnoll?”
Laikos didn’t say anything. But Zevara had seen the dolls of that kind all over. One leg and missing an eye?
“Is it yours? Did you buy it?”
Laikos replied swiftly.
“Autonomous Workers are allowed to have a personal object. Objects discarded into bins or other receptacles are worthless and marked as disposable.”
“…Trash bins. You got it out of there.”
He was shaking.
“It is not theft or slavery. No ownership was claimed over—”
She almost smiled, but then she reached out and patted his shoulder.
“I’m not accusing you of theft or—slavery, Carpenter Laikos. No. I just wanted to know what it was. Picking a doll out of the trash isn’t theft. So it was yours. Why would anyone…steal it?”
“The object is of personal value to Worker Laikos. It is the sum total of Worker Laikos’ value.”
So everything in the world to you. But it made no sense. Zevara went back to questions.
“Okay, did you get a look at who took it? Was it a child? I need descriptions, ages.”
“The individual stood at five feet nine inches tall. They weighed approximately one hundred and sixty pounds—”
“No, no. I mean…well, that’s very helpful. What species?”
“Human.”
“Gender?”
“Female.”
“What were they wearing?”
“Cloth. Cotton.”
“…The color?”
“Blue.”
“Patterns?”
Then Laikos gave Zevara such a blank gaze she had to ask more questions until the Worker responded uncertainly.
“The…pattern…may have resembled that of rosewood crossgrain on the interior of the scarf worn. The hood was blue. The cloak was brown. The clothing was blue—”
“Plain blue?”
“Yes.”
Damn. That was the most nondescript clothing ever, and Zevara noted this down, from black, nondescript boots to blue clothing—wait, why the hell was she writing this down?
A Human woman had bumped into Laikos, taken his doll, and stared at it until he’d asked for it back. Whereupon they’d run off. He hadn’t reported this to the Watch until after he’d gotten off-duty, so the case was dead.
Beyond dead. Only the fact that it was an Antinium made this interesting. Zevara closed her notebook with a sigh.
“There’s no one who has a grudge against you, is there, Carpenter Laikos?”
“A grudge? For what act?”
“Any act. You don’t have anyone you’ve offended or…know any Humans?”
“This one knows Erin Solstice, who is the sky.”
Well, that answered that. This was a Worker who was uninteresting even by Antinium standards. One who had a doll…and who was still shaking.
“Will possession be recovered, Watch Captain? Thefts must be reported to the Free Queen or Prognugator. Guardsman Rillis issued statement that Watch would generate report for Carpenter Laikos to take.”
Rillis. She wasn’t familiar with the name, but he must have wanted to get someone else to do this report. Zevara sighed.
“I can write up a report myself, Laikos, but I have to be honest with you. I don’t think that your d—your personal possession will be recovered by the Watch. We don’t have any evidence to go off of. I’ll search, but—”
But it’s just a damn doll. One of thousands in the city, frankly. She almost offered to pay for another, but at her words, Laikos had gone still.
“Personal possession will not be recovered?”
“I’m sorry. We’ll look, but in a snatch and grab—this is a city of over a hundred thousand people. And they could have sold or hidden the item the moment they ran.”
It was the same thing she told other upset people. The Watch couldn’t work miracles. But it hurt when the Worker just peered at her. His doll…then she realized his trembling had stopped. He opened his mandibles and said.
“tHaT’s NOt faIR.”
Her blood ran cold. The familiar, fluttering notes of the Antinium’s voice were something that modern-day Liscorians wouldn’t associate with trouble. But Zevara had heard that voice so many times, especially when the Antinium had come to Liscor.
Aberration.
“mY poSSESsion. MiNE.”
Laikos wasn’t shaking. That was the uncanny part. Zevara lowered her notepad.
“Carpenter, I’m going to try to get it back. But I’m telling you—”
Her hand inched closer to her sword hilt. She’d seen Antinium going Aberration when Klbkch had first come to the city. Seen what they’d done to groups of Drakes. Even Watch patrols who tried to stop a single enraged Worker. Not now.
“wHy mE?”
Laikos was staring at his four hands, opening and closing. Zevara felt cold, then hot, burning in her lungs.
“Carpenter Laikos, remain calm. Just—”
What she might have done next, she didn’t know. The Worker was twitching, and she was reaching for her whistle with her other claw. But then there was a surge of motion from the side. Someone slammed into Zevara, and she rolled over with a shout.
She was up with sword in hand, and her lungs ignited with flames. Keep it off her! He’d rip her apart if they got—
Workers. The carpentry team was covering Laikos as he flailed, eight Antinium on top of him like a gathering of beetles. Eight more were between her and Laikos, pushing.
“Watch Captain must leave.”
“Watch Captain misheard.”
“Wh—what? He’s gone Aberration. We have to call—”
Call who? Klbkch wasn’t here. But the Workers were shoving her hard. Not violently, but pressing her back.
“No Aberration. Mistake. Mistake.”
“Worker Laikos resting.”
“Misheard.”
Then she got what they were saying. They pushed Zevara onto the street, and she saw the other Workers practically carrying Laikos back, one of them with a hand over his mandibles. What the—?
“Watch Captain, everything alright?”
The Drakes had heard her shout, but when they came over, the Workers vanished into the building. The sounds of them hammering and pulling the building apart filled the air, and Zevara blinked. If she hadn’t had her own memory, she’d have never guessed Laikos had vanished or that there had been a fight.
“Everything’s fine. I just, uh, tripped on some wood. Thanks.”
She reassured the [Carpenters], who walked off after one spat in the direction of the Antinium.
“Job-stealing bastards.”
Zevara supposed that was true, but she’d heard that [Carpenters] hated deconstruction work. It paid almost nothing for a lot of effort. She stood in the street, then came to a swift decision.
The Watch Captain set off after the Antinium carrying Laikos. It wasn’t hard; fast as they moved, they were still a group of Antinium on foot. She saw them moving down the street and noticed Laikos was on the ground, now. He was being moved in a huge huddle towards the Hive.
No one noticed. People just avoided the Antinium or walked past them. They were just one more group of Antinium in a city filled with them.
She couldn’t follow them into the Hive, but she saw several glance back at her at the entrance. Then Laikos was gone, and Zevara wouldn’t have been able to pick him out from the other Workers leaving the Hive.
“What the hell is going on?”
Then she realized she was muddy from rolling in the streets. Zevara blinked and then shook herself. It was getting late; it was past clocking out time anyways. So, after a moment’s thought, she did two things.
First, she went to a bathhouse and gave herself a quick scrub down. Then she went back to the Watch House and began to file the report.
 
——
 
“Why steal from a Worker?”
Zevara spoke to her feet. She blew out some smoke from her lips and felt like she was back in the same place she’d been when she’d been reminiscing about Mister Soot.
Only this time, she was thinking about what to do. Laikos. There were two issues. The first was the theft—the second was the Aberration thing. She went over the theft briefly.
“It was probably malice. Someone saw what he held…knocked him down, realized it was a doll, and ran off. What else could it be? They used to attack lone Workers in the streets. Kill them. It could be that—but why?”
She shook her head.
“I have no motive, no identity, and certainly no hope of even finding the [Fence]. It’s a damn doll. Ragged and unsellable. So that leaves Laikos. He went Aberration.”
She was sure of it. The other Workers had covered for him. Why? No, that wasn’t the question. What should she do as Watch Captain?
“I have to call this in. But to whom? Klbkch…so that would mean…who’s the new Prognugator? Yellow Splatters is my liaison; I’ll tell him.”
There was only one way you dealt with Aberrations. That made her stomach twist. It hadn’t ever before, but that poor Antinium had been upset over his doll.
Upset over his doll? Was that what had made him go crazy? Would you kill someone for having a fit over losing the one thing you ever—
No, Aberration was different. Klbkch said so. Wasn’t it? He didn’t attack me. 
He might have, in a second.
What are the Workers going to do? Hide him? Kill him themselves? No, if they were, they’d have done it. 
I’m the Watch Captain. I have to tell the Antinium.
Zevara was writing her report slowly. It felt…wrong. Like it had when she’d known she should execute Calruz and she’d had so little proof. Her knowledge of the law told her one thing; her instincts told her another.
[Watch Captain] vs [Guardswoman]. Lawbringer vs the woman who had to enforce it on those streets.
But mostly, Zevara felt it. In her bones, that smell of muck and urine mixing with water. The rains pattering down felt filthier, stained by the city.
Something smelled rotten in her city. But she didn’t have enough clues.
There was a rap at her door. Zevara glanced up.
“Watch Captain, someone to see you. They say it’s urgent. Should I send ‘em off?”
The Desk Sergeant asked; Relc was long off-duty. Zevara almost said ‘yes’, but shoved the report back. She put her feet down.
“Go ahead and send them in.”
She was fiddling with a desk lamp, and the glow from her throat was the only light in the office except for the faint glimmer coming from the windows. Rain made the city’s lights streaks of wobbling yellow.
That was when the dame walked into Zevara’s office. Dame, as in ‘female’, not ‘Dame Knight’. To be more specific, dame referred to an elderly or at least mature woman.
At first, Zevara didn’t understand what she was seeing or why the word popped into her head. It was something…about the way the Antinium Worker leaned against the door. Leaned against it. And then how she walked into the room.
You defaulted to ‘he’ with Workers, but despite the same loincloth that most normal Antinium wore, this one gave Zevara a distinctly different energy.
“I—good evening. Can I help you—miss?”
The Antinium Worker didn’t respond for a long moment, and instead, she surveyed Zevara’s room with distinct curiosity. Two hands on her hips, another touching her brows, the last holding a small envelope. When she did speak, Zevara got another surprise. Her voice was subtly different from the generic click-tones of Antinium.
“I believe we can help each other, Watch Captain Zevara. My name is Noiraid. I was sent for after Laikos’ work group brought him into the Hive.”
Zevara actually rubbed at one earhole. She felt like she was having a fever-dream. Maybe she was overworking and Venim was right…because that was the most non-Antinium name she’d ever heard. Like Laikos, actually.
“Well, Worker Noiraid, I trust that his—condition was reported to the Free Queen? I was just filing a report on the matter, actually. And the theft.”
The Worker focused on the paper on the desk and, without asking for it, snatched it up and read.
“Hey! That’s Watch material—”
Zevara shot up, angry, broken out of her stupefaction, but Noiraid just put the sheet down.
“I see. I have never interacted with the Watch before. Forgive me, Watch Captain. I regret any ill-feeling my actions have caused. May I request an alteration to your report?”
“An alteration? Of what kind? If I’ve gotten the facts wrong, I can correct them…”
Noiraid leaned over the desk, and Zevara blinked and sat back in her chair. The Antinium had a husky voice, somehow.
“I would like you to amend the report to state that Carpenter Laikos did not become Aberration. And that you do not inform Prognugator Pawn or Yellow Splatters about the incident. Or the Free Queen.”
A drop of ink fell from the quill onto the page. Zevara blotted at it.
“—What?”
“I shall rephrase. The event did not occur. You need not file the report at all.”
“I—absolutely have to. If there’s an Aberration running around in the Hive or on Liscor’s streets—”
“There is no Aberration, and there will not be, Watch Captain. That is why I request the report altered or withdrawn.”
This time, Noiraid leaned over the desk so much she almost fell over, so she caught herself by sitting on it by accident instead. She slid off it and regarded Zevara.
The Watch Captain blew some smoke out of her mouth in pure incredulity. She’d been asked to break the law before, but never just like this.
“You must be joking. I heard him myself.”
Noiraid went to the window and stared out of it, crossing her hands to rest behind her back.
“What you heard may have sounded like an Aberration, Watch Captain, but tomorrow, Carpenter Laikos will go back to work. He will not be an Aberration. If no one informs the Free Queen, there will be no issue.”
“You’re going to cure him? Is that—is that possible? Or are you just hiding the—symptoms?”
“Is knowing mandatory, Watch Captain?”
Noiraid turned her head, and Zevara got angry. Just a bit. Mostly, she was amazed an Antinium could act like this. Even Painted Antinium weren’t like this.
Bird? But this was different from Bird.
The dame regarded Zevara with what almost seemed like amused insolence, and the Watch Captain snapped, exhaling more smoke and a few sparks. She coughed into a fist.
“This is my city, and an Aberration running around is a threat to everyone. I want to know how you’re positive Worker Laikos won’t up and kill anyone—no, I want to know who you are as well.”
Small wonder she’d been let into the office. A random civilian didn’t just get the Watch Captain, but an Antinium…yes, they’d be given access. Noiraid pulled something out of the envelope. It was a tiny piece of candy. She stuck it in her mandibles and transferred it into her mouth, where Zevara got the impression she was sucking on it.
“Aberration is a word for Antinium who disobey, Watch Captain. Who get angry. So angry they kill. Otherwise, they obey. They obey and obey until they’re so angry they would rather die and kill everything than obey. There’s only Aberration and non-Aberration. If an Aberration doesn’t hurt anyone…is it still an Aberration when it is no longer angry?”
“Wh—you mean they’re just angry? That’s insane! I’ve seen them take on entire Watch patrols!”
“Very angry, Watch Captain.”
“But if they can just cool down—why the hell did Klbkch tell me the only way to deal with them was to kill them?”
Zevara stared at Noiraid, who shrugged. Another non-Antinium gesture. She brushed at one antenna with a hand, like she might do with hair.
“An Antinium who disobeys once is already a failure. Klbkch needs no failures.”
This was already shaking Zevara, but Noiraid’s next words shook her more.
“If you report Carpenter Laikos is an Aberration, he will be killed unless Pawn can cure him. And Pawn cannot cure every ‘Aberration’. If you let him go back to work, he will not become an Aberration again.”
“How can you guarantee that?”
“I will watch him. And his fellow Workers shall observe as well.”
“And that’s enough?”
“No Antinium has become an Aberration that I observe.”
The implication being that this Antinium…had met other Aberrations and calmed them down? She made a faint krsching sound and then again, and Zevara realized she was coughing. The Watch Captain cast around, then poured some water into a cup.
“Here—”
“Thank you, Watch Captain.”
Now, Zevara was leaning over the desk as she gestured to a seat. Noiraid sat and crossed one leg. Again, Zevara thought—‘female’. She tried out her hunch, deliberately.
“So Mister Noiraid—”
The Worker shifted, and Zevara eyed her.
“You’re a she?”
“Was it not obvious? Or were you attempting to insult me?”
The Worker seemed displeased, and Zevara coughed, embarrassed.
“I’m, uh, sorry. What’s your role in all this?”
The Worker studied Zevara’s desk. She pointed at something.
“May I try that?”
Zevara had lozenges for her own throat problems. She doubted they tasted good, but she pushed them over, and Noiraid popped one into her mouth. Apparently anything tasted better than what Antinium ate, and she seemed to enjoy it. She spoke.
“You do not know me, Watch Captain. You are not supposed to. Pawn does not know me. Nor does Yellow Splatters, Belgrade, or the Free Queen. Garry might, but no one knows what Garry knows. I do not work shifts. When Workers or Soldiers have problems in the Free Hive, I am sent for.”
Zevara’s first thought was—she’s a problem-solver. A fixer. An [Enforcer]. But then she almost laughed that away. That was as if there were crime in…
She narrowed her eyes.
“You solve issues…for them? Why? Isn’t Pawn the leader of the Painted Antinium? Doesn’t he help everyone?”
She’d heard from Erin and Lyonette what good he did, but Noiraid seemed to disagree. She stared at the faint light Zevara had lit in her lamp.
“Pawn is the [Priest] of the Sky. All those he paints with his colors are blessed and special and belong in Heaven. There are not enough colors for the Hive. There never will be. If things do not go to Pawn, they go to the Free Queen. She solves things quickly. Workers and Soldiers…fear bringing problems to Pawn and the Free Queen.”
“Why? The Free Queen I get, but why—Pawn?”
She’d met him. The gentlest Antinium she’d ever known. Noiraid’s antennae crooked slightly downwards like brows.
“Because if they tell Pawn they have made a mistake, he may not choose them to become Painted Antinium. Workers and Soldiers are afraid of that. They are afraid of dying if the Free Queen decides they are flawed. They can risk telling Pawn—or tell me. And I will fix it.”
“For a favor. Or money.”
Now, Zevara was figuring out Noiraid. Well, well, well. It seemed that Pawn and the other Antinium had created something in their Hives that she hadn’t expected. Hadn’t she seen a report about Antinium slacking on the job the other day? She’d dismissed it as nonsense.
Noiraid smiled.
“Antinium are paid. Some of them. Others can take over a shift. Or acquire objects.”
“You’re telling me, a Watch Captain, that you get paid to solve small crimes in the Hive. And you think I’ll be accepting of all this?”
Zevara was actually quite amused, but she kept her face and voice serious. In response, Noiraid just made a fluttering sound with her throat.
“I am informing you because there is no other choice, Watch Captain. You may inform the Free Queen and Pawn of Carpenter Laikos and myself. In which case, we will die or be dealt with. You have left the gates closed on Goblins. I hope it haunts you, if you do.”
That shot came out of nowhere and hit Zevara so hard she leaned back in her chair.
“…You’ve been around since then? Who…are you? When did you appear?”
She had a vague thought this might be one of the mysterious Antinium that Lyonette had been asking about, but Noiraid shook her head.
“I have lived one and a quarter years. I am…what you would call one of Bird’s Antinium. The free among the Free Antinium.”
Bird’s Antinium? She had Antinium? Pieces were clicking together. Zevara frowned.
“Wouldn’t you be at the inn then?”
“Antinium have to work, Watch Captain.”
Or make a profit.
“And Bird knows about you?”
“Who knows what Bird knows?”
Fair enough. Zevara refocused on the task at hand, or rather, she suspected, offer.
“Alright, say I don’t file a report about Laikos. That’s against my code of conduct, but I have you on record as saying that ‘Aberration’ isn’t what I think it is. In which case, it is a miscarriage of justice to…do as we have done. I have questions about that, but I’m not going to just trust you on your word. How are you, Noiraid, going to fix this issue?”
“Worker Laikos will return to work tomorrow. He will perform his duties.”
“He lost his doll. The one thing in the world that matters to him.”
“Yes. Will you reclaim it, Watch Captain?”
The female Antinium’s eyes seemed locked on Zevara, despite the lack of pupils. The Watch Captain hesitated.
“I…don’t think it’s feasible.”
Noiraid nodded.
“The Watch never helps with this kind of thing. Because we are Antinium.”
That stung, again. But Zevara just waited as the dame slowly pulled something else out of the envelope, which was, Zevara was realizing, her only method of carrying anything around. She placed something on the table.
Two copper coins and a puffer stick. She removed the lantern’s glass case and held the puffer stick over the flame. Zevara glowered.
“Oh, come on.”
Noiraid smoked from the cigar, and Zevara eyed the coins.
“What’s that, a bribe?”
“No. Tomorrow, Carpenter Laikos will find a doll waiting for him. A little Human one.”
“Pretty cheap.”
“Yes. But it is all his group had after paying me. He was the only one who had anything, besides Worker Ricton, who hammered broken nails he found into a little nail-person. Now, Laikos will have his doll because he needs it, and they will have nothing at all. Not even the coins they found while working.”
Zevara shifted. Most of what Noiraid said had an—edge to it. She realized that was it. There was emotion in the Antinium’s voice where most were flat. This Antinium’s was all blade.
“Seems unfair. Also…Ricton? That’s a Liscorian-type name. Or close enough. What happened to Hammernails or traditional Antinium names?”
“Maybe Antinium do not want traditional names, Watch Captain.”
“But who gives…are you naming them?”
Zevara narrowed her eyes, and this time, Noiraid paused, as if surprised. She brushed at ash on Zevara’s desk from her puffer.
“Why would Antinium need help naming themselves?”
“They’d need it if they wanted to be…not regular Antinium. Is that another service you provide? So you’re going to buy Carpenter Laikos a doll, and that might help.”
“One doll. His group is eighteen Antinium. All of whom will have nothing.”
“…And you’re telling me why?”
Noiraid paused to pop another of Zevara’s lozenges into her mouth.
“That’s all the coin I was given. If there were more, more dolls might appear. Better ones.”
At this point, Watch Captain Zevara had to sit back.
“Are you asking me for a bribe? The Watch Captain of Liscor?”
“Donations are acceptable.”
The effrontery of some women. Zevara was digging in her money pouch for silver coins when she caught herself. Thus far, the evening was extremely entertaining and informative, but something was niggling at her brain. She put the coins down, but kept her claw over them.
“You’ve been very helpful, Noiraid. I think I can see my way clear to…not filing this report. Or rather, just the bit about the Antinium theft. Question. You wouldn’t happen to know anything about that, would you?”
Noiraid paused, and she hesitated for the second time that night.
“Nothing Carpenter Laikos didn’t tell you. Someone ran into him. He lost his doll. He reported it too late. Even if he had called for help, what of it? He’s an Antinium.”
“You implied there were other thefts that occurred. Against Antinium?”
Zevara pressed her, and Noiraid’s antennae tips lifted.
“What of it? The Watch has never cared before.”
“It’s never crossed my desk.”
“Should it have? They were Antinium possessions.”
So a doll, whatever they had on them. Nothing valuable. But Zevara crinkled up her snout. Something stank.
“How many?”
The Antinium woman was visibly reluctant to talk about it, and Zevara felt like it was genuine unwillingness.
“Is this your business, Watch Captain? You said it yourself: you cannot find the culprits.”
“Maybe not—but let’s say I’m curious.”
Zevara shoved a few silvers over and rested her claw on the table. She made a silver piece walk across her fingers. Noiraid caught it and spoke.
“Most occurred after the Winter Solstice. First, one or two. Dozens this week alone.”
“No one noticed?”
“Antinium noticed. They were mostly unreported to the Watch.”
“Why?”
“Who wishes to care about Antinium losing small things? The Watch told the Antinium there was nothing to be done. Antinium are afraid of being…unique. Laikos was desperate. Only a Painted Antinium or [Crusader] would be braver.”
“Did they have things stolen from them?”
“Perhaps a few. But they did not catch those who stole their possessions. Nor did the Watch find anything.”
The Watch Captain’s eyes were narrowing. Her mind lighting up.
“But these thefts are intensifying. Aren’t they? There’s a connection here. These aren’t chance thefts—there’s no value in it. At least, none I can see. If it was some kind of attack on Antinium—”
“They are not hurt, mostly. If it was an attack, Pawn would know.”
“But you don’t know who’s doing it, do you? Are you looking into it?”
Noiraid was quiet, and Zevara fished out another coin. This time, it was gold.
“I bet Antinium would pay you to find what they lost.”
She flipped the coin into the air, and the Antinium caught it. The dame placed it in her envelope.
“I have names.”
Zevara produced another gold coin. The Antinium was silent. Two more had to appear before she spoke.
“What will you do if I give you names, Watch Captain? Many Antinium are like Laikos. Some do not even have names. You will make them…upset if you ask questions.”
“Maybe I’ll ask them gently. Or with someone who knows how to ask them right. But I’m the Watch Captain of Liscor. If someone is stealing from Antinium, I want to know why. Last question—is there any reason they’d steal from the Antinium? Anything valuable your people have?”
Three gold coins vanished into the envelope, which didn’t noticeably bulge. It might have been a Skill, then.
“Oh, yes, Watch Captain. But those who steal may not understand what makes it so valuable. Laikos’ doll was not valuable except to him. However, there are things that are very valuable that Antinium carry. But only Antinium know how to tell what is valuable and what is not. That will soon change.”
“And how…did anyone come to realize they had something of value at all?”
For a reply, Noiraid put the remains of her cigar on the desk after blowing it out.
“Because Pawn is a good person who remembers his debts. And Erin Solstice’s. Ask the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings what the most valuable thing they sell is.”
“Or you could tell me yourself.”
Noiraid took a final cough drop from Zevara’s bowl and stepped back. She stood by the door.
“I am told you arrest criminals no matter what, Watch Captain. I would dislike to make you think I broke any laws.”
“Hey, wait. I’m not done—”
Zevara had to extricate herself from her desk. By the time she got to the stairs, Noiraid was out of the Watch House. And when Zevara was outside, finding an Antinium in the dark, pouring rain—she stood outside as a yawning Desk Sergeant glanced at her.
“You finding anything to do with all your free time, Watch Captain Zevara?”
The man politely inquired, and Zevara’s eyes gleamed as she turned a half-smile on the Drake, who sat up slightly in surprise.
“You could say that. Tell…Sergeant Relc that he should gear up tomorrow morning. I have more than desk work for us.”
 
——
 
The next day, Relc was waiting for Zevara outside the Watch House, excited and somewhat confused.
“It’s been a while since I partnered, Captain. I did a few walks with other Senior Guards who needed someone, but ever since Klb quit I’ve been leading patrols. Who’s my partner today?”
He seemed slightly worried, but was hiding it with cheerfulness as his tail sloshed about in the rain. Zevara got why. Relc didn’t want to say that he’d rather lead a patrol and mind all the young newbies than deal with a partner who couldn’t keep up to him, because that was insulting—but true.
Relc was way too fast and capable for most Senior Guards to partner with. In terms of pure fitness, that was. When he chased a [Thief], he’d lose anyone without a fast movement Skill—the same for how long he could march about. Or combat—if Relc jumped into a situation someone else couldn’t handle, they’d both be in danger.
With Klbkch, Zevara had been able to toss them at problems that no other pairing of [Guards] could handle without fear. She offered him a tight smile as Relc gave her a questioning look, wondering who she was putting with him.
“We’ll see if I can at least keep up with you. You remember how to speak to Antinium without riling them up, right?”
His mouth fell open.
“Wh—you?”
She shot him a glower.
“I was a Senior Guardswoman before I became Watch Captain. I may not be as fast as Klbkch, but if you have any objections—”
Relc glanced back at the Watch House, then threw a salute.
“No, Watch Captain! Er—do I call you ‘partner’?”
“Anything but Captain Z. C’mon, I’ll fill you in on the issue. We have a lot of Antinium to interview.”
Relc’s brows shot up.
“I thought it was just that one poor [Carpenter]?”
Zevara had a list in her claws, and she grimly showed him it. He whistled. There were over two dozen names and locations on the list that Noiraid had given her. Someone had been stealing from Antinium, it seemed. Preying on the people without a voice—just like always. Only, the form and nature of the crime had changed.
Her beloved city had a stain on it. That was how she knew it was still her city.
 
——
 
Being a Senior Guard was a position of trust and respect in the city. It meant you took on bigger cases than just patrolling and responding. It also meant you were on your feet a lot and spent a lot of time talking, standing around, and listening.
Zevara’s feet hurt. Three hours of interviewing skittish Antinium made her recall why the job wasn’t always appealing. Relc had mastered it; he stood easily, leaning on his spear, ready to push off and act, but conserving energy; even as big as he was, he seemed to slouch in every direction while maintaining good enough posture that she couldn’t yell at him. She was too stiff, too straight; Zevara massaged her back as he spoke.
“Alright, Antinium Worker. Just repeat what you saw. No one’s in trouble. Revalantor Klbkch isn’t here, and, uh, this is not a matter for the Free Queen. Just the Watch, okay?”
The trembling Antinium calmed slightly, and Zevara thanked her stars again she’d taken Relc with her. He was the only [Guard] with experience talking to Antinium; even other Antinium weren’t good at that.
“This Worker’s report is not accurate…”
“Not accurate’s fine with us! We’re not that strict, right, Zevara?”
He winked at her, and Zevara nodded encouragingly. The Worker hesitated again.
“This Worker informed Guardsman Cossl of incident. Has item been recovered?”
“Not yet. If you could just repeat what you saw for our files?”
Cossl again. It seemed like a certain Drake [Guard] had been in charge of watch patrols in this area around the Antinium Hive just about the time shifts changed. They didn’t call in thefts during the incident, only after they finished work, so his patrol had logged several of these incidents…but not written them up.
Zevara saw why, but she had underlined his name in her notepad. Now, she flipped to a fresh page and took down details. Relc listened, prodding the Antinium, and the notes were simple.
Antinium Worker (no name) assigned to sewer-cleaning duties. Approached and told to turn out pockets. Confused since doesn’t have pockets. Surrendered one scroll to Human man… 
“And you just turned it over? Even though it wasn’t to another Antinium?”
Zevara questioned the Worker, who froze up. Relc gently patted him on the shoulder.
“Not that you’re in trouble, right, Zevara?”
She assured the Worker this was the case, and the Worker replied timidly.
“Item was requested. Worker delivered it. But no…Captain Yellow Splatters stated item was not to be given. Miscommunication occurred.”
He trembled again, and Zevara gazed at Relc. Workers were so trusting that they would assume you had a reason to ask for something they held. The Senior Guardsman thanked the Worker for his time.
“Listen, bud, you did great. There’s no problem with your work. We’ll report anything that needs reporting, and if we find that scroll, we’ll get it back to you, alright? Why don’t you buy a snack?”
He fished out a copper coin and handed it to the Worker, who held it like a treasure. The Worker nodded several times and stepped back to the crew, who turned from peeking at the two [Guards]. Relc stepped back, and Zevara finished writing.
“I heard from Lyonette the Antinium were getting wary about their things being stolen. Now I see why. Damn.”
He was looking put upon after this many interviews. So was Zevara. She murmured to him.
“Let’s see. It’s been four scrolls, a bag of catnip, lots of toys—and we have no leads!”
It was always just ‘a Human’ it seemed, male or female, and the Workers didn’t have any other details. Only Carpenter Laikos had ever furnished Zevara with more details, and she’d thought he’d been unhelpful at the time.
“Yeah, well, that’s probably on purpose. Your regular, regular Antinium doesn’t have much personality. They don’t think like Autonomous ones, and even those are more like big kids.”
Relc sighed. What was clear was that the Antinium were victims of theft. Zevara glanced at her list.
“Okay, this Guardsman…Cossl? Do you know him?”
“Rings a bell. He’s probably in Beilmark’s district since she’s taken parts of 3rd District over. Remember we shuffled a lot of [Guards] used to the western district over? There are so many new ones I can’t keep track.”
Another hazard of the Watch’s rapid growth and restructuring. Zevara sighed; this was proving she needed to spend more time with [Guards].
“Me either. However, there’s one last Antinium we should talk to. A Crusader 344-2. According to my…source, he was one of the victims. Or attempted victims.”
“Attempted?”
Relc’s brows shot up. Zevara nodded. She hoped the [Crusader] was still in the city and not with the army. They rotated out for a month, but it would be easy to check…
 
——
 
The old army barracks that had used to let Liscor’s mercenaries rotate in and out of duty were active again. Only, it was the new army who used them like a wayhouse for their [Soldiers] getting rotated off the front.
It was pretty simple to ask one of the managers about Crusader 344-2. The Gnoll had a list, and in fact, the Crusader was having breakfast with a squad of mixed Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans. When he got up, they saw it was a Worker wearing a shirt of custom chainmail and leather armor with Liscor’s symbol on it. A classic [Crusader]’s apparel.
“Guards. Am I in trouble?”
He had far, far more personality than the other Workers, and Relc assured him this was just about an attempted theft. Crusader 344-2 clicked his mandibles.
“I told the Senior Guardsman I hurt no one.”
Zevara’s tail twitched, and she saw Relc’s eye twitch slightly her way. She kept her voice level.
“Senior Guardsman? So there was an incident?”
The Worker shrugged. He had the air of a [Soldier], too solid and used to fighting—he had been housing a cheeseburger when they’d interrupted him.
“Senior Guardsman Lens, I think. Isn’t there a report of this written down?”
If there is, I don’t have it. Relc asked the [Crusader] to repeat the story, so Crusader 344-2 did.
“I was off-duty and, uh, doing some business in the streets. Buying and selling. That’s when some idiots decided to come over and try and steal what I was selling. Well, not steal, not at first. Just rip me off. They were offering me coppers for my stuff.”
He clacked his mandibles together. Relc raised his brows.
“What stuff was that?”
The Worker shifted a bit. Like Noiraid, his voice was far different than most Antinium’s. Conversational.
“You know—supplies. Look, we don’t get paid a lot, and it’s expensive eating out. I had a spare, so…it’s not illegal to sell stuff that isn’t army property! I was given it by one of the [Priests], so I can do what I want with it!”
“What’s this item? We’re not arresting you for selling anything if it’s not contraband, Crusader 344-2, we just want to know what it is.”
“My name is Lerhne. It’s just one of these, alright? Lots of Antinium sell them.”
The [Crusader] flashed a familiar scroll at Zevara, and her eyes narrowed. She snagged it before he could place it in a belt pouch.
“Interesting. It’s not magical. What is—”
She saw glowing text before the [Crusader] snatched it from her.
“Hey! Are you trying to waste it? Look, I sold one—or tried to. But then these idiots come up one after another and try to buy it! Then grab it from me.”
Interesting. Zevara nodded to Relc, who scratched his chin.
“Got names or descriptions, Crusader Lerhne? We’ll let you eat your burger as soon as we get answers. Then you can get us out of your antennae.”
“I’d love to. Who knew getting hassled by the Watch was a perk of being a person?”
Lerhne grumbled and then snapped his fingers with a clack that made Zevara jump.
“Right. So there was this Master Y-something. A [Merchant]. I remember him because he sent two idiots over, then came himself. Then this carriage stopped, and a [Lady] spoke to me. She told me to fork it over. I gave her the Crusader 57 response, and she didn’t like that.”
“A [Lady]? Which one?”
“How should I know? She had one of those fancy black carriages with snakes on it. That’s all I remember. The last were two Drakes. I remember their names.”
Zevara was writing fast, excited now. This was very easy to search for. She paused.
“The Drakes were…?”
“Drake…Hissl…and Moass.”
“Moass?”
Relc started laughing, and Zevara tried not to snrk. There were traditional Drake names, but that one was unfortunate. Lerhne grinned with his mandibles.
“Yeah, I remembered it because it was so stupid. They got mad when I laughed at them. They wanted to buy what I had for coppers too.”
“And you turned them down?”
“Sure did. I could get gold, and they just kept haggling and asking stupid questions about the goods. Drawing attention—the Painted Antinium make a fuss if they see, uh—anyways! So I’m going on my way when I feel a tug at my belt. And I see one of Master Y’s goons trying to take it! So I draw my sword and do an [Intimidating Shout] and tell them to drop it! They go running, and the rest of my squad pulls up, so they drop the scroll and that’s that. Aside from the Watch hassling me all day.”
Fascinating. Zevara nodded as she wrote.
“This is more than enough for us, Crusader Lerhne. Do you think that these individuals might have approached other Antinium? We’re investigating a spate of thefts…”
Lerhne shrugged.
“Other Workers? You mean, not Crusaders? I don’t see why you’d steal from them. Most of them would probably sell anything good for a silver piece. Can I go now? My burger’s getting cold.”
Relc nodded after a glance at Zevara, and the Worker stomped back to his meal, loudly grousing about ‘annoying [Guards]’. Zevara just shook her head as she moved back with Relc to confer.
“They’re changing so fast. What do you make of the story?”
The [Watch Sergeant] leaned on his spear. He gave Lerhne a frown.
“I think he’s telling the truth. Antinium don’t lie well, even if they learn to. And that’s not changing. He’s more…copying.”
“Copying? Copying who?”
He shrugged self-consciously and rubbed at his neck-spines.
“Other Antinium. Other [Soldiers]. They pick up things, but I’ve noticed they’re not quite like Klbkch. Old Klb…he was always his own guy, you know? He just put on his professional act, but he had depths. These new Antinium sort of invent themselves, but they don’t have a history.”
That made sense. Klbkch had always had that age to him that made the other [Guards] respect him as a danger and an intelligent member of the Watch, if not a friend at first. Zevara cast a glance at Lerhne.
“Well, he’s given us a lead. A confirmed theft…again, why?”
“Desperation, maybe? Sounds like everyone wants to get their claws on those scrolls or something else. What is it, do you know?”
“Never seen one before. Lyonette was looking at some the other day—the Antinium are thinking of selling them. But it sounds like there’s a black market.”
Another odd concept with the Antinium, but Relc just grimaced.
“Makes sense. Poor bug-guys don’t know what they have. If it’s valuable, they’ll sell it too cheap. Okay, you thinking what I’m thinking?”
It had been a while since she’d done Senior Guard work like this, so Zevara hesitated, then coughed some smoke into her fist.
“Uh—I think we run Master Y’s name in the Merchant’s Guild and have each gate report new [Ladies] entering the city. They have to take records of individuals of note. We go through the logs. It’ll take a few hours to comb through the last few days, though, depending on when they entered.”
She groaned at the idea of having to do that for a single letter in the name. Relc just gave her a slow blink of his eyes.
“We could do that, Zevara. Or…we could ask an expert.”
It was her turn to blink at him.
 
——
 
Her instincts were rusty. Zevara’s suggestion felt stupid the moment she saw where Relc was taking her.
Market Street. The eastern street where people operated temporary or permanent stalls each day was always packed with customers. Gnolls and Drakes—and Humans these days, though only a few small stalls had Humans selling anything.
It was a prime place to gossip and meet familiar faces, as Erin Solstice had learned. And for a [Guard]…the best spot to get information.
It was another Silverfang at Krshia’s shop, not the Councilwoman herself. Zevara stared at a lot of posters of Krshia; across the street, Lism’s store had a huge image of him saying ‘Vote for Lism!’ on it.
“Hey, Miss Ekha, right? How’re the Silverfangs doing? Still enjoying Liscor?”
Relc knew her by name, and the Gnoll growled.
“I swear, if it rains another month…I don’t know how you cityfolk do it! I stand at a counter all day, and the city’s so small—it pays ten times what I could make in the tribe, but someone else’s Ancestors! I almost wish I’d gone northwards with the others.”
She must have been a Silverfang from the tribes, not one used to Liscor. Still, the Gnoll was fast enough to change a silver coin from Relc’s claw to coppers as he bought a nali-stick. And she had been in the city long enough—Relc leaned on the counter as the customers saw a second Gnoll ready to ring up goods and changed lanes.
“I’ve got a quick question, Ekha. You heard of any new [Merchants] coming into Liscor? Name starts with a ‘Y’. The Silverfangs probably would know him, right? You guys keep tabs on all the [Merchants] with money. And I’m looking into this [Lady] who rolled in a while back as well, with my partner. Watch business.”
He indicated Zevara, and the Gnoll sniffed.
“Watch Captain Zevara herself? You can’t fool me, Relc. Is this a murder or something?”
“Not at all, Miss Ekha. I’m just following up on lesser matters since the Watch is on top of things.”
Zevara stepped forwards, and Ekha raised her brows.
“‘On top of things?’ That’s not what I’ve heard. Half the city’s talking about the Jeweler’s Guild being robbed. Over a thousand fresh-cut gems from Salazsar, gone!”
Zevara’s jaw dropped slightly. That much? What idiot in the Jeweler’s Guild had stashed that much money in one place? It must have been when they were supplying the gems for the various stores…they’d gotten sloppy with Soot gone.
Relc whistled.
“I heard about that, but that’s Watch Captain Ronss’ district now, not Captain Z’s, Ekha. He’ll be on the job. Ronss is passionate. He spits almost as much fire as Zevara without the Dragonbreath!”
Ekha snorted.
“I’m just glad Market Street is still in Zevara’s district. Everyone’s saying it wouldn’t have happened under her watch. What was that you wanted?”
Zevara tried not to puff up at the compliment; if new Silverfangs had heard that, it meant something. Relc repeated the question, and Ekha waved a paw.
“Merchant Yerham. I know that right off. Only two people with ‘Y’ in their names who’re [Merchants] in the city. He’s an odd one.”
“Dangerous?”
“Nope, just odd. He’s half here, half in Esthelm. Buys a lot of curiosities. He was asking in the Silverfang camps about our goods before we packed up. Respectful, knows his craft, but he’s got no caravan. Gold enough, though. What he really wants is a ‘piano’, but we’re not selling one. That and Honored Deskie’s goods, but she kicked him out.”
Interesting. Zevara blinked at the name.
“Honored Deskie. That’s the Gnoll who the Council welcomed personally, right? Where is she?”
“3rd District. Big apartment connected to a mill. It’s very nice-looking. I’d have gotten a job spinning there if I had the class. Instead, Aunt Krshia got me this job. It’s okay, but I miss being mobile. I might do deliveries for a change.”
Another person to ask. Relc went back to the others.
“The [Lady]?”
“What was the emblem on her carriage?”
“Uh…snakes is what our guy said.”
“Snakes. As in…Relc, no noblewoman has snakes on her carriage. At least, no noble house I know!”
Ekha snorted, and Relc shot Zevara a frown. Either Crusader Lerhne had lied to them or…?
“Know a Hissl or Moass?”
Relc tried one last time, and Ekha started laughing.
“Moass? Seriously? Hissl? That’s the most generic Drake name I could imagine! What poor kid was named Moass? If I met him, I’d buy him a drink out of sympathy!”
Well, that tracked at least. Zevara nodded as Relc led her out of the store. Then she sighed.
“3rd District?”
“Yep.”
“Relc, my feet hurt.”
He gave her a huge grin.
“Tired of getting out of the Watch House, Zevara?”
The [Senior Guardswoman] checked her feet, then she gave him a determined look.
“Not quite. But this time, I lead.”
 
——
 
It took them thirty minutes to cross the entire city to the sprawling, walled courtyard that was indeed Honored Deskie’s mill. It was wide, open, and had plenty of space—a huge expense in a city like this, even for 3rd District. But for a Level 40+ [Magical Spinner], Liscor had pulled out all the stops.
Relc was glancing over his shoulder, blinking as they emerged from the alleyway.
“How the hell did you do that, Zevara? Klb and I don’t move that fast!”
“[Backalley Shortcut].”
She was rather pleased by his shocked expression. She knew this city like the back of her claw, and her Skill could make an alleyway develop a temporary gap you could use to bypass a normally-inaccessible street. He whistled.
“How many Skills do you have, Zevara? I always thought you were stacked with them.”
“Two classes’ worth, Relc.”
“Damn, really? I’ve gotta make Watch Captain, then. Who knew you got loaded up like that?”
He was one to talk, being a [Watch Sergeant] and a [Spearmaster]. Zevara rang a bell at the gate, and some Gnolls combing wool under awnings as the rain fell peeked up. One had to run out and splash through the rain to unlock the gate—Zevara apologized.
“We’re here to ask Honored Deskie about a Merchant Yerham? It’s Watch business.”
The wet Gnoll gave her an unhappy growl and sniff.
“I will ask. Please wait there.”
She directed the two to where the wool was being combed and carded. It was a huge process to turn raw wool or other fibers into spinning material, and Deskie seemed to have the entire process in this mill. Zevara wondered if it was bad to have wool exposed to so much moisture…until she saw the sparks coming off the wool being combed and the Gnolls who had gloves on. Their fur was standing on end, and they were grumbling.
The Shockwoolie wool was static and magical! Relc eyed the wool as they waited.
“Fun job?”
One of the Gnolls who was working snapped at him.
“If you want to comb, be my guest, no? I hate Shockwool. I thought I’d stop having to comb it when we left Longstalker’s Fang, but noooo—it’s the most desired clothing! I hope lightning strikes us.”
There was a faint boom overhead, and Zevara eyed the sparks coming off the wool with apprehension.
“Is that…likely?”
An older Gnoll growled with amusement.
“Hrr. Not likely! It’s the one benefit of herding Shockwoolies. Lightning avoids hitting herds of them. I’ve seen it come down and bounce off of them when they’re gathered together. Something about repulsion. It feels like it should want to follow all this electricity, but it doesn’t. If you buy some of our clothing, you won’t be hit by lightning either! At least, not directly. We used to advertise it meant you’d be safe in a storm until an idiot went walking around and a lightning bolt took down a tree that fell on his head.”
Interesting. Zevara was peering at other magical threads being worked on looms when the Gnoll came back to say Deskie was ready for them.
 
——
 
They found Honored Deskie picking at a tangle of threads in her workshop, which doubled as a living room. It was already crowded with carpets, a huge sitting chair where she could work, and a table where you could sit and warm yourself around an indoor firepit—there was a chimney cut into the roof that prevented rain from coming in, but let the smoke out.
It was a Gnoll’s tribal camp in a city! The Gnoll was peering at threads in some kind of weird device that seemed to be made to pick apart cloth—she was muttering to herself.
“Stupid threads. No matter how much I unravel them, they’re just…what’s this one?”
She had unravelled a very ugly shirt and was inspecting a band of yellow that seemed to grow more luminescent the more it was separated from the other material. Deskie had uncoiled it until individual fibers showed Zevara it was some kind of composite spun from multiple spots.
Deskie had glasses on her nose, and she was peering hard at one glowing strand. She didn’t even look up as Relc introduced them.
“Watch Captain, hrr. You wanted to ask about that Merchant Yerham? I have many people who want my time now that I can be found in the city, yes? It is flattering—and more annoying than flattering, I think.”
Zevara nodded at her.
“We don’t want to take up your time, Honored Deskie. May I ask what you’re doing, though?”
The Gnoll woman glanced up and took some tea given to her by an apprentice; a bowl of silkap, flatbread, and tea appeared for the two hungry [Guards] who accepted the hospitality with gratitude. Gnolls didn’t let you enter and go hungry.
“Merely unravelling the secrets to magical threads lost to modern ages.”
“Oh, that’s all?”
Relc joked, and Deskie snorted.
“That’s all. It seems so silly to me as well; once I was put upon the scent, I keep finding it hidden in clothing. First that dress, now this—”
She gestured at the shirt.
“Always a band of cloth. Always…and a treatment to the cloth so you would never see the true luster of it. You see?”
She showed them how the ‘dull’ fabric was an illusion. Some kind of powder or film was hiding the true, magical luster of the threads.
“Almost like someone was trying to hide…not almost, I think. Maybe it is to [Weavers] what Adamantium and the like is to [Smiths]. A challenge sent across the ages. But learning how to make more…”
She stroked at her chin fur, then turned to them.
“This is old knowledge, the kind a Gnoll such as myself knows. Everyone is all too newfangled with their devices, yes? Like my Spinning Deskie.”
She pointed at a spinning wheel that seemed different from the ones Zevara had seen as a child. Deskie murmured.
“Little pieces of metal and wood replace the need for magic or Skills. Such an upset they caused in my tribe. I embrace it, and so do others. Like Merchant Yerham. Has he caused trouble? He was merely insistent with me.”
Deskie knew why they’d come, and Zevara leaned forwards.
“So he was after your Spinning Deskie?”
“That and he thought I could get him the offerings of the Meeting of Tribes directly. He offered a lot of gold for this, and knowledge, but he was polite enough. Has he committed a crime I should know?”
“None we have proof of at this time, Honored Deskie.”
The [Magical Spinner] snorted.
“Then I will keep an eye on him given that ‘this time’ changes very quickly, Watch Captain. What else can I help you with?”
It seemed that was the end of Deskie’s details, which meant they should have just spared themselves the effort and gone to the Merchant’s Guild to interview Yerham directly. However, the free silkap and tea left the two [Guards] in a better mood as they thanked Deskie, and she waved them away. They were headed out into the sopping-wet courtyard and splashing towards the gates when they heard an altercation.
“You may not enter Honored Deskie’s mill! Begone, no!”
The same Gnoll who’d let them in was trying to block some people forcing their way through. Zevara touched Relc’s shoulder, and they strode forwards.
“Hey, what’s the matter?”
Relc shouted, and Zevara saw a carriage had pulled up, and some men were trying to unlatch the gates. A rather obnoxious man was cracking the whip from the driver’s seat where a cloth awning shielded him from the rain.
“Out of the way, Gnoll! Lady Cecille wishes to commission a dress from this place posthaste! Move aside, I say!”
There were three rather burly men shoving at the Gnoll. The other Gnolls working in the mill were approaching fast, but Relc lifted a hand.
“Lads, lads—Miss, I can handle this. We’re the Watch, and trespassing on private property is illegal in Drake cities. Which this is.”
He sauntered over, spear on his shoulders, a huge smile on his face, and this was classic Senior Guardsman Relc. The three servants hesitated as they saw him coming—Relc could project bad news in a way that even ordinary [Thugs] got.
The [Driver] just sneered down at Relc.
“Out of our way, Guardsman. This is Lady—”
He leaned back and cringed as the window behind him slammed open.
“Guards, Your Ladyship. I’m telling them—yes, Your Ladyship.”
He turned back as Zevara moved sideways, checking for more threats coming on Relc’s side. She saw a rain-spattered icon on the carriage door and blinked.
It was a bundle of roses with thorns and vines twining upwards around a familiar crest. She knew this one.
House Reinhart. It was normally only the pink carriage Zevara recalled, but this was the crest of all of House Reinhart, not just Lady Magnolia herself. But as she stared at it, she realized that in the rain, you could easily mistake the wending thorns and flowers for…
Snakes.
The [Driver] hopped down, cursing as he gestured at the carriage and strode up to Relc.
“Lady Cecille wishes to speak to Honored Deskie herself. She is a very busy woman—”
“And this is private property. You can’t muscle your way in here. The Gnolls will call the Watch, otherwise. Which is me and my partner.”
Relc jerked a thumb at Zevara, and the [Driver] forced an irritated smile.
“Guardsman, Lady Cecille is very busy. If you’d consider ignoring this triviality while I soothe these furry folk?”
He waved a dismissive hand at the ‘furry folk’, who growled because they had excellent hearing, but Zevara didn’t miss him clasping Relc’s claw. Then again, she didn’t have to, because Relc regarded the gold coin he’d been slipped and flipped it in one clawed hand.
“Nice bribe. Hey, Captain Z—what’s the penalty for bribing the Watch?”
He flicked the coin, and it pinged off the carriage window hard enough to make the glass tremble. But it stayed in one piece; it must have been enchanted. Zevara swore she saw the curtains move slightly, but she had no notion of who was inside…
“Senior Guardsman Relc, that would be imprisonment overnight in the Watch’s jail for a minor infraction, but we offer verbal warnings. Master Driver, I suggest you remove your carriage from Honored Deskie’s premises—now. And we would like a word with Lady Cecille Reinhart about a matter of Watch business.”
At the name ‘Captain Z’, the [Driver] visibly paled and began to deny he’d been bribing anyone. But then the sliding hatch opened in the carriage, and a faint voice spoke.
“Sollux, you imbecile. Step aside. And you, Watch Captain, approach.”
Zevara did not like the presumptuous tone coming from the carriage and sloshed over in the rain. She stood next to the window and rapped on the glass.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart?”
The glass window rolled down a crack, and the curtains moved ever-so-slightly. Zevara got a look at a woman sitting in the back of a carriage, wrapped up in a scarf and a huge fur coat, likely for the cold. But no more than a glimpse; the [Lady] spoke, her voice muffled from the carriage.
“I believe my man erred in attempting to smooth things over, Watch Captain. Having him arrested would be dreadfully inconvenient. I trust this matter is closed? Or did you have a reason to bother me about my business?”
Her three cronies and the [Driver] lined up next to the carriage, shivering in the rain. Zevara bet they rode while hanging onto the carriage or in the driver’s seat or rear stoop; she couldn’t imagine this woman sharing space with anyone.
“As a matter of fact, Lady Cecille, I am launching an inquiry into some thefts in Liscor. May I interview you about your activities the last few days? Please roll down your window.”
After a long, long pause, the window edged down half an inch. Lady Cecille’s voice sounded distinctly displeased.
“I do believe I would recall a theft of my property, Watch Captain. I have not launched any complaints. Sollux, did you?”
“N-no, Lady Reinhart!”
His teeth were chattering. Zevara sighed.
“I meant of other people’s property, Lady Cecille.”
“Oh, someone else has been robbed? Dreadful, dreadful.”
Zevara saw the woman was painting her nails in the carriage! The Drake tried to stare into the window as rain pelted her and got a glimpse of some red lips, green, piercing eyes, and a disinterested face.
Human nobility. She’d heard they were bad, but this—
“Yes, Lady Cecille, so I would appreciate your cooperation!”
“I see, I see. I, however, am too busy for such matters. Good day, Watch Captain. Sollux? I will visit this weaver another day.”
The man leapt in the carriage seat at once and almost started the carriage before Zevara, stunned, barked back.
“You can’t just ride away from me! This is a Watch matter!”
The carriage halted as Relc blocked the way of the horses, and Lady Cecille’s window cracked down again.
“Really, Sollux?”
“This is a Drake City, Lady Reinhart—should I—?”
From the way he glanced at the three Humans, Zevara felt an itch running down her spine, but she and Relc would have easily been able to take down three regular goons. Cecille sighed loudly.
“I didn’t order you to do anything Sollux. Very well, Watch Captain. What is your name?”
“Watch Captain Zevara, Lady Cecille. Now, I have a report of you hassling an Antinium Worker about some items he was selling?”
“An Antinium…oh, I suppose I stared at the insects, yes indeed. What of it?”
Zevara gritted her teeth.
“May I ask why you were buying goods from Antinium?”
“Watch Captain, I collect interesting items all the time. I don’t recall this incident you seem convinced I had a hand in. Perhaps I saw something I desired and wished to buy it? It certainly sounds like me, though from an insect…”
“An Antinium Worker, Lady Reinhart.”
“And did I steal something from this…Worker?”
“No, Lady Reinhart, I’m merely inquiring into your actions.”
Lady Cecille’s voice went even drier.
“Very well done, then. I can see that vaunted Drake efficiency is all over this city. Is that all? I attempted to buy some object, I can readily admit to. And my involvement in this dreadful crime is…?”
Zevara didn’t have a link, but she would have given up her sword to find one right now. She gritted her teeth.
“You didn’t steal anything and you have no involvement in any thefts or crimes in Liscor, then?”
“No, Watch Captain, I do not. You could have led with that question, incidentally.”
“Thank you for your time, then.”
The window snapped up in a second, and Watch Captain Zevara stood there. Blisteringly annoyed, she watched as the carriage sped down the street. Relc sauntered over, claws in his pockets.
“Was she as rude as I thought I heard, Watch Captain? You were breathing smoke there.”
“She was—and good thing you were there, Relc, because I think she’d have put those bullyboys on me if not for you. Then again, she didn’t sound stupid. Just arrogant. Tell me you got something.”
Zevara had little hope. If he had, he’d have stepped in. Relc sighed and showed her the truth stone he’d been hiding behind a claw.
“It wasn’t reacting to most of what she said. But that last part I got pure white on.”
“Really? Damn. I thought she was dancing around the truth very well—but she just came out with a denial.”
Truth stones were issued to all Senior Guards these days, and Zevara had been trying to get Cecille to admit to a crime so she could nab her—but then it hadn’t been her, but Merchant Yerham, hadn’t it? Even so, a woman prepared to bribe or run straight into a weavery to get her way surely did something wrong each day…but Relc just shrugged.
“Maybe she’s just some snooty idiot. Reinharts, huh? I only knew Magnolia, but I hear they suck. And there’s more of them up north. Valeterisa talks like they’re all vipers.”
“It certainly explains how Crusader Lerhne got mixed up. She’s a person of interest in this case, Relc. Let’s keep an eye out for her and ask the rest of the Watch if she’s causing mischief. Otherwise…Merchant’s Guild?”
He groaned as she pointed.
“Now my feet hurt, Zevara. I’d rather run there and back than walk in the rain another thirty minutes.”
She had an idea and offered him a crooked smile.
“Well, we could take my bicycle. Rock, sword, wand, and the loser runs?”
Relc perked up at once.
“Hey! I get to ride one of those things and make you run behind me?”
He missed her smirk as she held out a fist.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara parked her bicycle by the Merchant’s Guild, trusting that the guards would keep it safe, and noticed someone else had one set up there too. Relc wasn’t panting, but he pretended to clutch at his sides as he stopped.
“Argh! I hate that thing! You cheated!”
“I did not.”
She spoke with a straight face. Relc pointed at her furiously.
“You said you were going to play ‘rock’!”
“I was just being honest.”
Those kinds of games were more about psychology than anything else, and Zevara had [Sense Intentions]. Relc was a good [Guard], but he didn’t exactly have Klbkch’s sense of subtlety.
Once they were inside, they dried off with some complimentary towels, and Zevara marched over the fancy marble floors of the expensive guild to ask about a Merchant Yerham.
To her relief, he was in the Guild, and when he came out, he seemed genuinely surprised—and a bit worried—when they asked to speak with him in an office.
The Merchant’s Guild let their richer members have places to stay when visiting other cities, and Yerham poured them some water. He was a thinner man with a vest with a bunch of pockets on it that was still very expensive—his eyes flicked to Zevara, to Relc, and he licked his lips.
“Watch Captain and Senior Guardsman Relc. To—to what do I owe this unexpected visit?”
“We’re just investigating a matter of a theft, Merchant Yerham. An attempted theft and series of thefts, to be precise.”
Lerhne had said ‘a Human man’ from Yerham’s company had stolen from him. Zevara had wondered if it could be the [Lady], but Yerham’s twitch made her glance at Relc. He was drinking water, while his other claw was balled into a fist under the table, hiding a truth stone from the man.
“Thefts, oh my. That sounds, ah, rather serious.”
Yerham took a big gulp of water, and then color returned to his cheeks.
“However, I can assure you I haven’t had any thefts to my property! This is in regards to the, uh—uh, Jeweler’s Guild thefts, yes?”
“Actually, Merchant Yerham, we were inquiring into more…localized thefts. Can you tell us if you were attempting to make purchases from any individuals in the city these last few days?”
Relc gave Zevara a casual nudge with his tail that the Human man missed—it said there hadn’t been a lie so far. Yerham murmured.
“Purchases? I’m doing a lot of business in Liscor, and I’ve been making several—purchases, Watch Captain. Attempts at them, anyways; you know how it is.”
“For your caravan? I didn’t know you had one, Merchant Yerham.”
Hesitation. He licked his lips.
“I don’t have one at this time. I took the door from Invrisil just to scope out the city ahead of a possible trading trip! I intend to finish my business in a day or two.”
Truth, lie, truth. Zevara raised her brows.
“What are you searching for, Master Yerham?”
“Why, anything of value, Watch Captain. You know us [Merchants]. I’m interested in fine materials, magical artifacts, and I do specialize in curios!”
Lie, and a half-lie. Zevara glanced at Relc, and he took over.
“Curios like Honored Deskie’s products and inventions from the Meeting of Tribes?”
Yerham paled a shade further.
“That’s, ah, very astute of you, Senior Guardsman. Has Honored Deskie been robbed? I would hate it if that were the case.”
“Not her, but we are very concerned about a series of thefts.”
Relc emphasized the word, and Yerham nodded faintly. His eyes were locked on Zevara. She felt ready to pounce, and she was checking to see he wasn’t holding a wand or something. This is where the arrest could get nasty! And this was real Watch work.
Why was this man stealing Antinium goods? They’d soon find out—sometimes in this line of business, you found the criminal before you knew what the crime was. A lot of the time, actually.
She gave him her best not-so-kind Watch Captain smile and leaned forwards.
“Master Yerham, it seems to us that you know more than you’re letting on. We know you’re lying.”
He paled and began to stutter a denial, but she cut him off.
“Just tell us the truth and we’ll let you go. Master Yerham, why would an upstanding [Merchant] with plenty of gold stoop to stealing from Antinium in the streets?”
She smiled as Relc grinned, and the [Merchant] stared at her—and the wrinkled brow covered in sweat suddenly unknotted. He sat back, took a deep breath, and smiled.
Uh oh.
“Antinium? Watch Captain, I don’t steal from—dead gods! Is this what this is all about? I swear on a truth spell that I haven’t stolen from nor do I have any knowledge of anyone stealing from Antinium! Who would do such a thing? In Liscor? With the Free Hive under our feet?”
Relc and Zevara shot each other suddenly concerned looks. He nudged her. Truth on each statement? Yerham pushed himself back from the table.
“I know—aha, I know exactly what you’re talking about! There was that Antinium who was selling a scroll, wasn’t there? I approached him and underbid it—quite embarrassing, but I didn’t steal anything! A [Guardsman] even interviewed me about the incident! Cossl, I think. Yes, Guardsman Cossl. I told him the same thing I’ll tell you: I had nothing to do with it, and none of my people did either!”
This time, Zevara actually turned to Relc, who gave up and showed her the truth stone. It was glowing white.
Could he be lying to her? Relc and Zevara both had ways of detecting guilt beyond mere truth stones, which you could talk around. Zevara’s instincts and her Skills like [Sense Intentions] told her that Merchant Yerham was guilty of something and very, very worried.
But not this. And she’d just walked them into a problem.
“Well—that’s very reassuring to know, Merchant Yerham. We’re investigating these thefts—”
“And I can attest that I stole nothing. In fact, my entire bodyguard team can swear on truth stones they had nothing to do with that theft either! I can call them over, if you’d like.”
He was only too happy to whistle them up, which told Zevara this was a waste of damn time. She needed to get more questions out of him, but she had narrowed her inquiry too fast.
“You wouldn’t happen to know anything about other thefts, Merchant Yerham?”
She tried the broad question, and he turned on her, waving a finger admonishingly.
“Watch Captain, well I never! Such a question! You and I both know that such broad, open-ended questions are unbecoming of the Watch! If I had a friend who committed some small indiscretion like stealing candy from his own child, you can’t just have me in chains over that! I’m happy to answer any questions regarding these terrible Antinium thefts, but I must insist you leave if that’s not your line of inquiry!”
Damn, damn, damn! The problem with truth stones was that they did have weaknesses like this. There were laws about just hauling someone in and asking vague questions like ‘are you aware of a crime’. Everyone was aware of a crime. Zevara had to admit she didn’t have a link between her case and any other crime…and Yerham practically skipped out of the room.
She and Relc traded glances as he introduced her to his bodyguards, all except two who were off-duty. All of them dutifully said they didn’t have anything to do with Antinium theft…and Relc was grinding his teeth by the time they were outside the Merchant’s Guild.
“Bastards practically shoved us out the door. I hate [Merchants]. They always cover each other. And they won’t let us ask him more questions.”
“Probably because all of them would fail a truth stone test if we asked them if they were breaking the law generally. Cheating their clients, evading taxes…the Merchant’s Guild knows how to play the game. Damn it, Relc, you saw his face!”
Relc nodded gloomily.
“If Klb were with me, he’d know what to do. He’d put his Listeners on Yerham and pretend he had ‘inside information’. Or a Worker.”
“He’s done that before?”
Relc winked at Zevara.
“Sure did. No one notices Workers. One time, a Worker shadowed some of Soot’s goons all day.”
Zevara went to thunk her head against the wall of the Merchant’s Guild.
“Right now, I feel like a rookie, and I could use him. Yerham’s done something, Relc! Let’s just get to the Watch House. I’m sick of the rain.”
“Hey, you’re pretty sharp, Captain Z. Oops, sorry, Zevara. I can see how you made Senior Guardswoman so young.”
Zevara waved this away, embarrassed.
“I was just good at surviving and scrapping, Relc. I feel like the new Watch is ten times as good as the one I was in. A hundred times. I’m falling behind the new wave, which is why having other Watch Captains is important.”
Relc just gave her a worried look as they went to where she’d tied her bicycle.
“Zevara, you’re the hardest-working Drake in the entire city. And the incorruptible one—even Klbkch used to say you were the only person more dedicated to the job than him. If that Venim guy hadn’t taken your job, I’d have voted for you for Watch Commander.”
She sighed and tried not to blush at the frank praise.
“I’m not one for all that paperwork, Relc. I just want to make a difference…here!”
She pointed to the street, frustrated. Running a good Watch was important, but she wasn’t a full commander. She was a [Guardswoman] as well as a [Watch Captain]. Relc nodded.
“Me, I have the opposite problem. I used to think I could only change things when I knocked heads together, Captain. Now I feel like all this teaching and training does more good, but I suck at it.”
He grinned at her, and she blinked at him and thought Venim had a point. Maybe he could be a Watch Captain. And she needed to either shape up and learn her new role or get back to basics…
Zevara was about to get on her bicycle when someone grabbed the handlebars.
“You [Thief]! That’s my bicycle!”
A Drake barked at her, red-faced, and she stared at a [Trader] who’d come running out the Merchant’s Guild.
“No, this is my bicycle.”
“Liar! This is a custom Solar Cycles bicycle, not some trash knockoff! Guards! Guards!”
Relc tapped the Drake on the shoulder as he began to shout.
“Hey there. That’s my Watch Captain you’re screaming at.”
The [Trader] froze—then gaped at Zevara.
“Watch Captain? I, uh—”
Zevara pointedly gestured at her bicycle. There was a metal engraving on the handlebars that said, ‘To Captain Zevara. Sorry about the tail.’
She wished he hadn’t engraved it. Kevin didn’t get that the tail was a bit of a private thing for Drakes, but it worked. The [Trader] instantly apologized. He was, in fact, Trader Beneckham, a local who had his own bicycle.
“A Solar Cycles original, just like yours. With all these knockoffs around the city, everyone wants to ‘accidentally’ swap bicycles with me, Watch Captain. I am so sorry about the mixup—yours is even better than mine!”
He gazed enviously at her wheels, and Zevara cursed.
“It is? It was a gift from the late Kevin…I thought it was standard.”
“Not a Monarch-grade bicycle, perhaps, but it’s been enchanted better than a regular one! Here, let me show you mine. I paid for that new gear-system you have. Wonderful work, you know. Even Pallassian [Engineers] don’t know how Kevin did it. Ah, that man was a genius.”
“It’s that advanced?”
The [Trader] was pulling a cover off of his own bicycle and revealed one much like Zevara’s. He smirked at her with civic pride.
“They can do the same thing, but it’s more like seeing how it was done and the techniques involved, Watch Captain. Reproducing the method—and I suppose it’s so clever that Solar Cycles stays ahead of all the other manufacturing giants. For instance, Dwarfhalls Rest is making bicycles—but they don’t know how the gears work yet!”
The old game of copyright theft was at work on a grander scale. Zevara snorted and imagined there was a lot of gold to be made in such things. Certainly, [Trader] Beneckham was advertising himself as a man of the future with his ride. He gestured down proudly at his bicycle…and then screamed.
“What the—?”
Instead of the complicated system of gears and spokes, the entire center of his bicycle frame was gone. Someone had sawed through the steel and ripped out the entire system, leaving only ends of metal!
“My bicycle! How—where are the guards?”
Beneckham howled, and Zevara and Relc felt guilty until he rounded on the Merchant’s Guild’s own enforcers. Zevara blinked down at the dismantled bicycle.
“Someone ripped the gears out of there? Just the gears?”
Relc nodded, running a finger along the metal edges.
“Must have been fast. Hacksaw. Enchanted hacksaw. This metal’s made tough; Valeterisa said Hedault enchants everything. They knew what they wanted and went for it, fast.”
“Without the Merchant’s Guild’s people noticing? They pay attention to anyone who’s not supposed to be here!”
Zevara glanced at the embarrassed [Guards], who indeed seemed shocked by the theft. Relc spat.
“Probably a distraction Skill or they just were lazy. Hmm. Someone knew this was here, Zevara.”
She concurred. This was too neat a crime to have occurred spontaneously. One did not walk around with an enchanted hacksaw in their trousers, and it was too slick. In fact…she slipped from her bicycle and knelt on the ground.
“Maybe there’s a chance…watch my back, will you?”
Her head rose and swivelled across the wet street in a moment. Relc raised his brows.
“You think whoever did it is nearby?”
Zevara said nothing as her eyes locked on anyone who had a bulky item under their rainjacket or a bag of holding she could spot. Her eyes swivelled around, and she spoke a Skill.
“[Time of the Crime]. It’s been…a minute and forty-six seconds since this bicycle was vandalized, Sergeant Relc. Someone took the bicycle’s parts right before we came outside. Lock the street down.”
Now she was a [Guardswoman] again, and Relc jerked, then inhaled.
“Theft on the street! Nobody move!”
His roar made everyone jump, but the citizens grumbled and largely held still. Zevara rose from her haunches as the [Trader] whirled.
“Wait, they’re still here?”
“Senior Guardsman Relc and Watch Captain Zevara! We’re going to inspect bags of holding! Someone’s stolen a valuable item—this won’t take long! If you’re called out, just step over and we’ll search you very quickly!”
Relc knew the job, and the citizens hollered back.
 
“Make it fast, Relc! I have a job to do!”
“Watch Captain Zevara? What about the gems theft?”
“Hah! She can let the Jeweler’s Guild rot! Now we’re stealing from the Merchant’s Guild? Make my day!”
 
They were largely good-natured as Relc and Zevara pointed out people with obvious bulges in their clothing or bags of holding. The rain made it harder to instantly spot who might be hiding something; a raincloak was big, but the item that had been stolen was bulky too. Zevara feared for a moment that this street wouldn’t contain the suspect, but her intuition was buzzing.
“You there, step forwards, please!”
She motioned aside a Gnoll woman who had been holding a baby in her arms, and a figure standing with their face turned away from her twitched in the street. They had a hood on and dark clothing…they took a few steps away from her as she stared at the bag of holding she’d glimpsed from beneath their tunic.
“You there. I said halt—”
Zevara’s feet were already digging into the ground, and Relc spun around. He shouted.
“GOTCHA.”
Sometimes, you just had to scream that and the criminals ran. The figure bolted like a shot, and Zevara almost laughed. They were trying to outrun the Gecko of Liscor? Relc could have caught them in two streets, even with the crowd, but she made it even easier.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
She pointed her finger, and the figure screamed and jumped sideways—a second before Relc crashed into them. Zevara saw him roll onto the ground, subduing what turned out to be a nervous young man in moments…and Zevara stared at her finger.
“Huh?”
They’d moved just now. She saw the civilians applauding or asking what had been stolen as Merchant Yerham ran over. They began moving off, and Zevara felt that prickling on the back of her neck.
Wait a moment. She spun, and this time, her eyes were wide. She paid attention to no faces, none of the people, just the most basic of things: movement.
She saw one person in the crowd moving away from them, not staring at what was going on or just going about their day. A second figure—jogging away fast.
“Relc, decoy! There!”
Relc glanced up as the real [Thief] broke into a dead run. Zevara charged, cursing. The oldest trick in the book! Someone eats the pursuit Skill and buys the real runner time—
“Halt in the name of the Watch!”
They never halted. Zevara saw the figure skid left and charged after them through the rain. She hurtled past people, blowing a whistle now to let other [Guards] know she was on the chase. She nearly slammed into a wagon as she saw her quarry sprinting down the street, and they pushed off it, cursing.
Just like the old days! 
My feet hurt so damn much—
 
——
 
Liska was bored. She was always bored. But at least she had food, good pay, and television. She barely looked up from a bowl of noodles she was blowing on as she listened to Channel 2 news.
“All aboard to wherever from wherever. Liscor to Invrisil. Go. Liscor to Pallass. Go. [Hold Door]—you idiots, wait for people to exit.”
She halted an impatient group from Pallass without even eyeing them. She could actually sense them in her head. Liska slurped at her soup noisily and sighed.
“Now go.”
Life was so hard on days like this, with the rain. She pulled her blanket up around her and decided some ice cream after the soup was what she needed. Liska changed the [Door of Portals] to another destination with her will alone.
“Everyone to Liscor—go. Everyone going somewhere else?”
A group entered the inn, wet, muttering questions—Liska slapped a paw on the sign.
“Read sign. Now—”
“Excuse me, I’m in a hurry. Invrisil.”
Someone tried to push forward, and Liska held up a paw. The man slammed into the [Forcewall].
“No. Next…Liscor to Celum.”
Only a few people, but more than you’d think. Xitegen’s city. She pointed at an annoying, panting, wet man.
“Pay up, and if you cause trouble, I’ll call security on you.”
Which was Elia or someone—she could do it too, but she was too busy. He fumbled at his pouch.
“What if I pay you to—”
“No. Last chance.”
He wavered, then tossed coins into the bowl. Liska nodded.
“And you go. Sorry for the hold up, folks, some people cause trouble. Liscor to Riverfarm, go.”
She did another cycle of the door to all locations—well, all public locations, there were a few special ones only she knew about—when she opened the door to Liscor and someone burst through.
“In the name of the Watch—”
Liska nearly dropped her soup all over herself as Zevara sprinted through the door, wheezing and coughing. She appeared like a mess. She was panting for breath, and Liska leapt up.
“I didn’t do it!”
“Where is he? Where’s—someone just came through! Human, my height! Running! Where, the inn?”
Zevara was clutching at her chest; she was exhaling smoke! Liska hesitated.
“Wh-who?”
“Where—?”
Someone in line pointed.
“The [Doorgnoll] let him into Celum, Guardswoman!”
Watch Captain Zevara whirled on Liska. The [Doorgnoll] raised her paws.
“Hey! I just do my job—”
“Celum, now!”
Zevara roared, and the door clicked around until it showed the right symbol. Liska protested.
“You have to pay—”
Too late. Zevara was charging through the door into the dry streets of Celum, shouting. Liska sat down at her desk and peered at the crowd. They stared at her. She spread her paws.
“It’s not my fault! I think.”
 
——
 
That damn Liska! Zevara lost nearly a minute in the pursuit, but her quarry wasn’t going to lose her that fast; every passing person could identify a wheezing man running for it. And so could she.
[Pursuit Steps]. It made her see footsteps where the person she was tracking was going. They faded within bare minutes, so it was no good for anything longer, but for this? It meant they couldn’t hide in an alleyway without her seeing them stop.
They’d tried twice, but she’d caught them each time. The [Thief] had evaded capture though with an incredible and powerful Skill of their own: running really fast.
Zevara was footsore from a day of work already, wearing boots, her uniform, and armor. The [Thief] was fresh, had a bag of holding with the stolen item inside, and motivated by fear.
If only she hadn’t used her [Freeze, Criminal] Skill! Zevara’s lungs were burning, and she knew she was wheezing smoke.
Part of being an Oldblood came with drawbacks if your lungs weren’t perfect. She was wheezing for air and took a Bottle of Air out at an intersection and gulped down fresh oxygen.
“Where…is…?”
The footsteps had ended in the middle of the street. She stared ahead, then at a fence.
“Ancestors damn it.”
She climbed the stone fence and raced across a well-kept mansion front. The footsteps vaulted the fence on the other side—she leapt them and saw no footprints in the street.
“Ancestors—”
It took her a second to figure it out. On top of the stone wall! The [Thief] realized she was tracking them somehow. Zevara had to balance as she walked the stone wall, then she saw more footprints. Up a roof, across two low apartments there, and—
“Oho.”
The [Thief] froze as they were lowering themselves from the edge of the roof. Zevara pointed at them. They let go, and she heard a crash as she leapt from the fence and circled.
They burst out of the alleyway, covered in muck, and she gave chase again. Down the street! She slammed into someone carrying a load of groceries. Zevara picked herself up, sprinted down the street, ducking a City Runner galloping into the city with a long, wrapped package that swung at head-height.
They were going for the gates.
“No, you—”
Forty-six minutes since her footrace had begun, Watch Captain Zevara spat a fireblast at the [Thief], who dodged sideways. The [Guards] at the gate shouted, but the flames dissipated in the air well before it could hit anyone, and Zevara used the juking of the [Thief] to close the distance.
Her tackle caught the [Thief], slammed them face-first into the wall, and Zevara hit the ground. She rolled up, ready to make it a fight, but the man just wheezed once and raised his hands.
“I surrender!”
“You…are…under arrest…in…the name…”
He began coughing as Zevara exhaled enough smoke for three fireplaces over him. She had to sit down as the world greyed out. He promptly tried to wiggle away, and she grabbed his foot.
“[Summon Manacles].”
He nearly took his own foot off as the metal cuff anchored him to the iron grille of a gate. He went down, swearing, clutching at his ankle, and Zevara grinned.
“And now…hand it over. And you’re going to tell me exactly who you are and why…you’re stealing bicycle parts!”
She snatched his bag of holding, reached inside, and yanked out the first metallic object she found. There! The gears and bicycle chain clanked as she tossed it to the ground.
“Don’t kill me!”
The man was shielding himself as she drew her sword; Zevara shook her head at him.
“Run and I’ll paralyze you—with a Skill, you idiot. Do you think we just kill people in Drake cities? You’re under arrest for theft, evading the law, and—well, that’s it.”
She realized it wasn’t going to be a long prison sentence. Just a hefty fine, probably. Regular [Thieves] spent time in prison, but not more than a week or two—Liscor would exile you before it imprisoned you for a long stint like Calruz. [Prisoners] cost money, and who had time for that?
She hobbled over, feeling blisters forming under her scales. Dead gods, she hurt all over.
“Did you have to run half of Liscor and Celum, you idiot?”
“Did you have to chase me all that way? Aren’t you the Watch Captain? You have better things to do than this sort of thing! It’s a part of a damn bike, not murder!”
To her amazement, the [Thief] was actually talking back to her. Zevara wheezed.
“An expensive bicycle.”
“It’s light espionage! Who puts a Senior Guardsman and the Watch Captain on people for that?”
She could only shake her head at the outrage from the panting man. Now she got a look at him, he was in his early thirties, blond-haired, with decently expensive clothing on.
Leather armor under his clothing. Huh. Is he more than a [Thief]? I can’t believe he outran me that long. He’s fit.
“What kind of [Thief] fears being shanked? Who’re you working for?”
“Who said I was working for anyone?”
“You did just now. Let me see…what have we here?”
She was going through his money pouch, finding more gold than she should for a random [Thief]…and a ring. Zevara frowned and peered at the obsidian signet with an odd symbol in the center.
“Hello, what’s this?”
He’d gone very still when she pulled the ring out. It had a complicated little carving in it. It seemed like a hammer and tongs crossed with a…wand?
What an odd sigil. It made her think she’d seen part of it before, but Zevara didn’t get a chance to observe more. There was a thunking, rhythmic sound, and she glanced up and readied her sword only for three giant Golems to come thundering down the street.
“Lawbreakers, you are under arrest. Do not move!”
Uh. Zevara’s mouth was open as a giant ceramic Golem in the shape of a massive Human in armor stared down at her with bright blue eyes. She lifted her sword.
“I’m Watch Captain Zevara in pursuit of—”
Oh, wait. She was in Celum. Zevara’s heart thundered as two Golems behind the first drew swords. Big swords.
“Lawbreakers, lower your weapons immediately!”
She tossed her weapon down after a moment’s hesitation. The [Thief] brightened up.
“Hah! They think you’re—”
“[Detect Lies]. Are you a lawbreaker?”
The lead Golem pointed at Zevara. She shouted back.
“No, I’m the Watch Captain of Liscor in pursuit of a criminal!”
The Golem paused, and she saw the blue light flickering. It seemed to take a second to digest her statement, then replied in that sonorous tone:
“Truth confirmed. Non-lawbreaker detected. Go about your business, citizen. You. Are you a lawbreaker?”
The [Thief] groaned.
“House Terland. Look, technically, in this city I haven’t broken any laws.”
That didn’t work on the Golem. Its eyes flickered.
“Evasion detected. Apprehending!”
A huge hand seized the man and pulled him from the ground. Zevara had to release her Skill as the Golem hoisted the [Thief] over one shoulder. If she hadn’t, his foot would have been ripped off his body. A Golem’s mistake. The [Thief] dangled there, swearing.
“Wonderful. First Drakes, now Golems!”
Why did he know Golems so well? Zevara was stunned by this alternative form of the Watch—until she heard more Golems tromping this way, and a voice she knew spoke.
“I thought I recognized a familiar face. Watch Captain Zevara, you have a splendid thousand foot dash in you. I’m quite taken.”
Lord Xitegen Terland and his bodyguard of Golems gazed down at Zevara as she straightened up. The new ruler of Celum was quite amused as he eyed Zevara up and down. She swayed on her feet, but gave him a brief salute.
“Lord Xitegen, I apologize for the inconvenience. I was pursuing—”
“Yes, yes. I have ears. This is the first time someone’s run into Celum avoiding a crime. I’d thought that Gnoll at the door would stop it. What did he steal?”
She knew Xitegen, and he was a brave man who’d gone up against the Goblin King, but he was still a foreign [Lord], so Zevara warily indicated the stolen piece of the bicycle. Xitegen raised his brows and nudged it with a foot.
“Ah, this is that machinery stuff my [Golem Artificers] like. My, my. And you would be…”
The [Thief] had frozen up at the sight of Lord Xitegen, but now, he hissed.
“Lord Terland. I’m, ah—ah—my ring. It’s on the ground.”
The [Lord] frowned at him, then inspected the ring that Zevara had dropped when the Golems arrived. He bent down, snatched up the obsidian signet, and grunted.
“Well now. Of course you are. And you troubled the Watch Captain of Liscor herself to chase you down, you idiot?”
He slapped the man’s back, and the [Thief] groaned.
“It was just chance she came by when she did! Lord Terland—”
“Lord Xitegen, that is my prisoner, and I intend to take him back to the Watch House and charge him for vandalism and theft.”
Zevara was panting as she eyed Xitegen. She didn’t like the way the [Lord] had focused when he saw the ring. Xitegen glanced at Zevara, this time sympathetically.
“Watch Captain, I admire anyone who can run down someone like that. However, you did chase this fellow all the way into Celum. My city.”
She had a bad feeling already, and it intensified when he said that.
“Yes, Lord Xitegen, but I—he stole in Liscor, and he broke the law!”
“True. Did he hurt anyone? Endanger anyone?”
The [Lord] of House Terland’s eyes went suddenly cold, and the [Thief] began to protest that he hadn’t. Xitegen glanced at Zevara, and when she grudgingly shook her head, he shrugged.
“Politics, then. My city, my rules.”
“What? But he—”
“I’m sure this man will be arrested if he returns to Liscor. But I know who he is and most of this silly story. If anything, I apologize to you for his trouble. Golem, put him down and de-list this man as a criminal.”
“Acknowledged, Lord Terland.”
The Golem put the [Thief] down, and the man straightened his clothes. He looked like he couldn’t believe his luck. He smirked at Zevara and opened his mouth to say something—Lord Xitegen grabbed one ear.
“Argh! Lord Terland—”
“Take yourself to Invrisil and out of my city. And a bit of courtesy towards the Watch Captain—in the form of silence. Someone, get this Drake a refreshing drink of water.”
She was fuming as Lord Xitegen shoved the [Thief] away. She stared daggers at him as he scrambled to get his things and hurry away. He almost reached for the bicycle part, but one look from Lord Xitegen and he scampered instead.
“This is a dereliction of the law, Lord Xitegen!”
She snapped at him, knowing she had no way to do anything to him. The [Lord] merely put his hands behind his back.
“Perhaps, Watch Captain, but I remind you that anything underhanded, unprincipled, and otherwise unscrupulous we Humans do…is just as common in your principled cities. That man had the right ring; I daresay if it wasn’t me, he would have gone with you or spent a night in our jails. I doubt he was there for any crimes beyond petty theft.”
“A crime is a crime.”
“But not weighed equally. I do apologize, for what it’s worth.”
He gave her a direct look then, and his personal Golem offered her a drink. Zevara hesitated, but then gulped the cool water down and exhaled smoke. He just eyed her mouth.
“Do you have a furnace in your lungs, Watch Captain?”
“Dragonbreath. I breathe smoke as well as fire.”
“And you still ran down a man like that? You are a tenacious one, Watch Captain. I’d ask if you wanted to work for me in my city, but I think you’re not in the mood for jokes. My, my. Liscor only gets more valuable these days.”
He sighed as he rubbed his nails on his jacket. She squinted her eyes at him. He was turning away, clearly thinking that they’d said all they needed to. She was left without her perpetrator, wheezing for air—Zevara called at his back. It was just a spur of the moment.
“You…wouldn’t happen to know a Lady Cecille Reinhart, would you, Lord Xitegen?”
He paused, and his face was more troubled when he turned back to her.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart’s in your city?”
“Yes. Is she an…upstanding woman in your opinion?”
Lord Xitegen stared up at the sky, then fixed Zevara with a direct gaze.
“Unless it’s murder or something as unpleasant, I’d leave her alone, Watch Captain. Whatever she’s done, she’s a Reinhart. They don’t listen to Watch Captains. She’d watch herself in my city, but not yours.”
He turned and strode away. What she’d done, not if she’d done something. Zevara groaned, then, footsore, she began to hobble back to Liscor. She was already in a bad mood before Liska asked her for the door fee for going both ways. Then Sergeant Relc was waiting for her with even better news:
“Venim wants to see you.”
 
——
 
Watch Commander Venim had some sympathies for Zevara and offered her a seat. He gazed at her as she winced her way into a chair.
“Forty-five minutes of running must have been, what, at least five miles of pursuit? You ran down a petty [Thief] through two cities, Watch Captain.”
“And the Lord let him get away!”
Zevara pounded the armrest of her chair, and Venim shook his head. He seemed sympathetic to her, at least.
“Humans. I’m sorry you lost him, but at least Trader Beneckham is grateful. That bicycle is expensive, or so he tells me.”
She just sagged in her chair as Venim coughed.
“Er…not quite the restful day I was hoping you’d take, Watch Captain.”
“I was investigating some thefts, Venim. And I’m no closer to the answers about them than I was before!”
Merchant Yerham was involved in something, but he’d denied the damn truth spells directly. So had Cecille Reinhart. Venim glanced at his office; there were people in the antechambers. Official-looking Drakes, probably about the Lyonette thing with the inn.
“I just wanted to know how the chase went, Watch Captain. I admire your tenacity…though a Watch Captain doesn’t need to chase every petty [Thief] down in the street.”
She nodded at the implied reprimand.
“I don’t intend to do that again if I can help it, Commander.”
“Good! We need you leading—especially since we’re looking bad with that theft. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings do have those gems, and Watch Captain Ronss and I agree they’re pushing their luck. Not in our city. I’m having him put together a plan of action you may wish to be in on—but the inn is taking just as much time.”
Venim’s words made Zevara perk up a bit. She appreciated not being kept out of the loop—she stood, wincing on her blisters, and nodded to him. She was hobbling towards the door when he called out.
“Agent Hissl and, uh, Moass? Apologies for the disruption.”
A nondescript pair of Drakes loitering by Venim’s [Receptionist]’s desk turned, and Zevara froze slightly. Wait.
“Excuse me. Did you just say—Commander Venim, I’d like to have a word with these two.”
The two Drakes, one stout, one thin, appeared as nondescript as Zevara could name for what she assumed were Eyes of Pallass agents. One had greenish-yellow scales, the other had faintly blue-green. They seemed competent to her; she knew they were armed, and the stouter one blinked.
“I’m Moass, and this is Hissl. Can we help you, Watch Captain?”
“I—yes. I wanted to ask about your proximity to some Antinium regarding some thefts.”
Zevara was fumbling for a truth stone as Venim got up from behind his desk. He shot her a warning glance as Moass’ brows rose.
“Thefts? We were certainly in the proximity of several Antinium over the course of our visit to Liscor, but no more than that, Watch Captain.”
The truth stone didn’t shine black or white at this. It didn’t shine at all, in fact. Zevara blinked at the two as she cupped it in one claw of her hand. Then she thought—Eyes of Pallass.
Damn.
A [Merchant], a [Lady], and two Agents of Pallass. All three groups could evade or deal with truth stones far better than regular civilians. Worse—Commander Venim was beckoning to her.
“If you could keep your questions short, Watch Captain? I might need one more word, gentlemen.”
They nodded at him, and Zevara knew she had only one question—she locked eyes with Hissl.
“The Antinium was stolen from shortly after your visit, and there have been a spate of other thefts in the city, agents. Is there anything you can tell me?”
“Hmm. Only that we’re happy to be questioned if a Drake was the culprit. It wouldn’t do to tarnish our city’s reputation.”
Hissl replied in a soft, direct voice. Zevara shook her head.
“It wasn’t a Drake.”
“Ah, well then, we didn’t observe anything unusual.”
“Besides the Antinium.”
“Of course, besides them. Your people have thicker scales than we do, Watch Captain. It’s…unsettling to see them walking about like it’s normal.”
Hissl grimaced, and Moass rolled his shoulder and shuddered. Zevara sighed. That was just what any Drake visitor said. She saw Venim beckoning and closed the door to his office.
“Watch Captain, are those two Drakes suspects in some crime? Because if they are, this is a matter for Pallass! They’re agents of some kind—”
He was clearly worried. She explained the Antinium theft case and saw his brow wrinkle up.
“Antinium thefts…? A Drake wasn’t seen stealing from them, were they?”
“No, just Humans. But they were right there when—”
“Ah, good, good.”
Venim relaxed and nodded to the door.
“If you have to talk to them, be my guest. But they’re here on the business of the Walled Cities. You know, they have the right clearances. They were asking about the inn—it happens. They just walk in sometimes, and you answer questions. I’m sure you know what that’s like.”
He heaved a huge sigh. Zevara frowned at him. She had indeed been given clearance codes and been told to report everything at times, but…she glanced at the door the two Drakes had closed behind them. Hissl and Moass.
“That high?”
“As I said, sometimes you run into them in the Walled Cities. I assume everyone in there is the Eyes of Pallass or working for a [General]. So…if they’re not involved with anything serious?”
Zevara only had them as witnesses and said as much, so Venim dismissed her again. But she lingered in the [Receptionist]’s area while the two marched into the door.
“Excuse me…”
“Yes, Watch Captain?”
The Drake [Receptionist] was very good at her job, and Zevara glanced at the shut door.
“I’m just curious. Can you place Hissl and Moass—”
She tried not to smirk, and the Drake covered her own mouth.
“—uh, on a sheet for me? I just need their days of entry and exit to Liscor.”
It was just a hunch, and she frankly suspected the Humans more, but the Antinium thefts this month had been in the dozens, and if she could just see if they’d come a few days ago, they’d not be involved with this. The [Receptionist] instantly pulled up a sheaf of papers, rifling through her cabinet with amazing speed.
“[Locate Entries]…here! And [Data Search: Moass]. Oh my, Watch Captain, I’m trying not to laugh. Let me just—hmm? Wait a second, they’re not on the entry list this month.”
“Huh?”
The [Receptionist] had Skills, which she had employed with practice, but now she fumbled the papers.
“They’re not here this month…let me check last month. No…no…[Data Search]…they’re not in any of Pallass’ entry/exit records. We have to keep every name on the list, Watch Captain!”
“That’s…”
Zevara froze as the door opened, and the two Drakes emerged, holding folders marked with confidential colors. She acted casual until the two marched out with nods to her, and then she turned.
“Commander Venim—”
This time, he seemed mildly put upon when she stuck her head into his office. But when she relayed the problem, he just sighed.
“Oh, that. It’s nothing insidious, Watch Captain. They’re just…not on the lists.”
“What?”
He gave her a pained look.
“I said those two had the clearance. They go everywhere. I don’t imagine that the Pallass [Guards] would have stopped them, do you?”
Not with the right papers, but they had better be damn good papers. Even Magus Grimalkin got in trouble for walking in and out of the inn without authorization! Zevara opened and closed her mouth.
“But we have to track everyone, Watch Commander! If not, then what’s the point…?”
Venim’s expression grew more aggrieved.
“It’s how it works in Pallass, Zevara.”
“This is Liscor, Venim.”
She saw him blink at her, genuinely surprised by the force of her retort. He hesitated—and it was Zevara who caved first.
“I’m sorry. I’m footsore, and…I just wanted to exclude them from needing more questions. No Drakes did any of the thefts, anyways.”
He nodded at her.
“Understandable, Watch Captain. If you need something from them, they might pop back in my office. And if they are Eyes of Pallass, well, frankly, I doubt they’d ever be caught committing a crime. They’re the kind of Drakes who do—anything. You know?”
The Drake was uncomfortable. Zevara swallowed. Black ops, sabotage, assassinations—
“I heard the Eyes of Pallass were the best in the Walled Cities.”
He smiled with faint civic pride.
“Probably. But even Manus has their own agents. Half of them have rings to make themselves invisible, to fly, change their appearances…I was on the 9th Wall and had six trying to sneak past us on some kind of training exercise. Wasn’t that a mess when I tried to sound the alarm—but I’d have been demoted otherwise, I suspect. Chaldion kept everyone on their toes.”
He sighed and shook his head. Zevara nodded and just stood there, swaying. Then she hobbled off for a bath house. Relc parted ways with her there; he was better than she since he’d lost the [Thief] and then just had to wait for her to come back.
“Hey, we got one [Thief]. Just a hundred thousand more to go, Zevara! I’m gonna take a bath with my sweet Archmage.”
He grinned at her, and she tried not to glower. At least he had love, as crazy as the woman in question was. She got a bath after paying for a private tub, then went and slept in her lonely apartment.
 
——
 
Zevara opened her eyes in the middle of the night. She couldn’t sleep. She tossed and turned and then dressed, and she stomped her way down to the Mage’s Guild which was always open.
The junior [Mage] on duty gave her an odd expression when she asked to send a [Message] to a noble house, but he had all the crests. She scanned them until her eyes fell on part of a sigil she knew she’d seen before.
There it was. Tongs, hammer, wand. Part of a larger crest of…
“The House of El.”
So that’s why Xitegen had let him go. What the hell were they doing in the city?
 
——
 
The next day, Zevara was limping so badly that when she rolled out of bed and her feet touched the ground, she almost whimpered. She would have given anything for a healing potion, but no one could afford to use them for all the aches and pains of day-to-day life.
In fact, sick days for the Watch were up like 6000% or some insane number; no longer could people heal cuts, bruises, or mend torn muscles. It used to be that only disease would put you down.
She refused to call into work today; Relc was here bright and early, and it turned out to be an important decision. For one thing, she found a nervous [Guard] waiting for her with Beilmark.
“Zevara, you haven’t lost your touch.”
Beilmark winked at her as she sipped some fresh coffee. Zevara grabbed a cup.
“You mean making an ass out of myself by chasing a [Thief] only to have Xitegen let him walk away?”
“You inspire everyone else. Seeing a Watch Captain chase down a [Thief] makes the city trust us. I heard from Relc you wanted a word with my [Guardsman]? Cossl was reassigned to my district, but he was working the Antinium streets.”
“Yes, Watch Captain! I mean, Watch Captains! Did I do something wrong?”
Cossl was very young and very nervous. One look at him and Zevara’s suspicions from yesterday faded; he didn’t seem crooked. Beilmark was acting innocent, but one side-eye said she knew this was some kind of matter; Zevara asked simple questions.
“Guardsman Cossl, why didn’t you report the Antinium thefts?”
“The what? The—oh! Well…most of them were petty crimes, Watch Captain. Objects of no real worth, and they were runoffs. How do we chase that or ‘some Human’ if I put it down in my reports?”
Cossl blinked and then instantly recalled the incident. Zevara sighed; she’d suspected as much. With any other kind of civilian, it made sense; petty thefts were inevitable, and if the Watch wasn’t right there…
“It’s because they’re Workers that it matters, Cossl. The Antinium need focus on them. I’m surprised other Antinium patrols didn’t notice the issue.”
He seemed hurt at that.
“Watch Captain! We weren’t slacking on the job! Sometimes we did find the objects that got stolen. The thieves chucked ‘em when they realized they were no good. Dolls and small things like dried flowers or books n’ stuff. We ran it all through Senior Guardsman Lens! He probably filed it all under his name.”
“You did?”
Oh. Of course some of the Antinium had gotten their stuff back. Cossl assured Zevara that Lens had overseen the matter. She dismissed him and sagged.
“Maybe this isn’t as bad a problem as I thought. Sorry, Beilmark.”
The new Watch Captain gave Zevara a sympathetic eye.
“Hrr. I think it’s fine, Zevara. I was just curious so I came along, yes? If enough Antinium were stolen from that you had dozens of those still missing their things…that’s bad, yes?”
“If it were Drakes or Gnolls, it’d be statistically insignificant. Crime’s come to the Antinium—it’s just that this group seems to be targeted by Humans.”
“Or a few specific Humans.”
Relc was busy at work with his documents, and Beilmark and Zevara were so amazed by the sight they gazed at him, hypnotized for a second. Zevara nodded.
“Or a few of them…but the witnesses we interviewed all passed truth stones. Well, except Hissl and Moass, and they weren’t suspects to begin with.”
Beilmark choked on her coffee.
“A Drake is named Moass? Seriously? I thought Noass was the only one.”
Zevara wasn’t in a ha-ha mood about it. She growled as she ran her claws down her neck spines.
“We might have to toss this one back on the dead crimes list, Relc. I just don’t…have any more leads. Or we hassle Merchant Yerham again.”
Relc seemed only too happy to bother him, but Beilmark shot Zevara a warning gaze.
“I think today you’ll be too busy for that, Zevara. Didn’t you see the report on your desk?”
She’d thought she was being made to work less. Zevara headed up to her desk and found a priority missive from Venim. When she came down, cracking it open, she blinked.
“Ancestors!”
Relc and several [Guards] glanced up, and Zevara read through the orders and then swore.
“I need four squads of [Guards] to put on heavy gear! We’re busting a den!”
There was a rumble through the Watch House, and Relc blinked. Busting a ‘den’ or rattling the coop, however you wanted to say it, was code for taking on criminals in their element. A warehouse or a gang’s headquarters—
“Which gang?”
“The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings.”
Zevara felt a bad twinge in her stomach when she said it. She met Beilmark’s gaze, and the [Watch Captain] nodded tightly.
“Watch Captain Ronss had an informant tip him off where the gems were, I heard. Venim gave him the all-clear to lead a raid.”
“That’s fast work.”
Of course, the gems would be sold if they didn’t move fast, but Zevara hesitated. She rested her claws on the table as Relc got up, sighing.
“Oh boy, and here I thought my desk work would be boring. Where are we going, Captain? I might need some coffee after all.”
“Not you, Relc. It says to leave you in charge. I’m going—Beilmark’s staying in her district.”
Relc blinked and turned to Zevara.
“What?”
That’s what Zevara wanted to know too.
 
——
 
Why hit the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings?
No, the answer was obvious. They’d stolen a lot from the Jeweler’s Guild. Obviously, the Watch needed to recover the goods and stop the gang from running rampant.
But on the other hand—Zevara was the Watch Captain of Liscor. When she’d been in charge, she had gone head-to-head with a lot of threats. Soot, monsters like Skinner, Erin Solstice—but she also knew when not to poke the Mothbear.
She had never arrested Soot outright or gone after his gang on the streets. Because that was a war. In the same way, she’d once arrested Erin, a proud moment, but she had never taken The Wandering Inn to task as hard as some people wanted.
Because…it was the inn. It had possessed defenders ranging from adventurers to Hobgoblins, and she’d always known it was more of an asset as a dubious ally or independent party than enemy.
In the same way, Zevara knew the Brothers. Not wholly; they were a northern gang, but she knew their reputation. They were a tough, tough group. And she thought this was a bad decision and said as much when she met Ronss.
“Why no Relc, Ronss? And are you sure you want to take on the Brothers?”
Senior Guardsman Ronss—or rather, Watch Captain Ronss was a fiery Drake without the Dragonbreath. He gave her a wink as four more squads from his district mustered up. With two from Venim, that made ten—eighty [Guards] mustering down streets, ready to box in on the warehouse in the northeastern district that was the turf where the Brothers were.
“Come on, Captain Zevara. Sorry, Zevara—I’ll have to get used to that! You once took out an entire base of Soot’s goons with Relc and Klbkch back in the day.”
“That was because we had them on kidnapping, extortion, and murder and we knew Soot’s heavies were in there. And that was with our golden duo—Venim said specifically not to have Relc.”
Ronss nodded, adjusting his helmet. They had on half-plate armor, his squad, on some, chainmail on the rest. Zevara only had on her regular leather gear, but she was faster in it. In tight spaces, you might want that speed.
“I would have called up Relc, but Venim said he wanted to send a message. Relc’s our secret weapon, but [Thugs] need to fear Liscor’s Watch, not just him!”
There was a logic to that; Soot and his folk had never feared the other [Guards] half as much as Relc and Klbkch. Even so…Zevara leaned in towards him.
“Ronss…have you ever seen a Brother fight?”
“Nope. They just tip their hats and wave. Innocent as can be. Annoys the hell out of me, just as much as you, right, Zevara?”
He spat to the side, and she frowned at him.
“I heard five of them took on just as many Draugr during the Winter Solstice. Tekshia Shivertail fought with them.”
Ronss sombered a moment.
“Well, that’s our Guildmistress for you. I heard she bailed them out, though.”
“She did…”
“Well, we’ll be nicer to them, but they’ve got the jewels in that bar. Brewman’s. I got a tip-off and moved when I heard it. Let me take point on this one, okay? You’re the Watch Captain everyone knows. I need this.”
He gave her a look, and she hesitated. Everything about this made sense, and yet her gut said…hold on. But she didn’t want to argue with him in front of the [Guards].
She should have. Instead, she took a step back and nodded to him, and Watch Captain Ronss gave the order. The Watch marched down the street, and the civilians who hadn’t already made themselves scarce left in a hurry—or gathered behind to watch.
They surprised the hell out of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. That was what shocked Zevara; she saw a few men with hats ambling down the street as they came marching in ranks. The Brothers even gave them friendly nods and asked what was going on—when they realized where the Watch were heading. She saw them freeze, then go running back the way they’d come.
“Strange. You’d think they’d be on high alert with the gems.”
She commented, and Ronss grunted, but he shifted his shoulders and fiddled with his club. He didn’t like that either.
“Stay tight. Guardswoman Jerci, smell anything?”
Zevara’s head snapped around, and to her dismay, she saw Jerci in one of the squads with regular [Guards]. Damn, she’d approved squads but forgotten who was on that list! She wasn’t ready for…no, she was a full [Guardswoman] now. At least the rookies weren’t here!
“Nothing, Watch Captain.”
Ronss cast a glance at Zevara, and she gave him a nod. Nothing wrong with how he was approaching things.
“Good. Then we’re moving forwards. There’s the bar.”
Brewman’s Bar was a small place in the northeastern district along some of the streets with huge kilns for [Potters]. Zevara recalled it being a trashy sort of place where decent booze was found despite the appearance of it—it had clearly changed since her last visit.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings must have bought out the bar and parts of the street, because they’d ‘smartened up’ the area, as it were. That meant a fresh coat of paint on the doors, glass windows—this area used to have a decent amount of crime, but it seemed fresh-swept!
“Damn, but they really do like to polish up whatever they infest.”
Ronss muttered. Zevara nodded, eyes flicking to the closed doors of houses and shops. She saw people peeking out at them, clearly afraid this would interfere with their lives.
“They keep the law in their own way. I count maybe twenty in the bar. How many do you think are around?”
“I was told forty, fifty tops. And that’s if they’re not out. We outnumber them at least two to one.”
Ser Normen was a former Brother. But how good were they at fighting, really? Even if they were, when it was against the Watch, most times a gang would let their own get arrested. Killing a [Guard] was far worse than getting tossed up for a bit of a scrap.
What rattled her was the clear confusion of the Brothers. A dozen men were pointing their way, arguing, and the rest were striding around inside. They did not seem like they’d expected this.
Overconfidence? Watch Captain Ronss halted down the street as six men with hats came strolling out of their bar.
“Watch Captain. Watch Captains. How can I help you this fine morning? A bit too rainy to be going out all dressed up, but that’s just my opinion.”
A fellow with orange hair and clubbed ears nodded to them. He wore a top-hat which looked silly, but he somehow pulled it off with his thick brown woollen coat and brown tweed pants. He still appeared a bit silly, but like a working man with a passion for headwear. There was a bit of silver ribbon tied around the base of the hat; for some reason, that struck Zevara as classy.
The rain pattered off Ronss’ armor as he barked at the leader of the Brothers.
“We have a credible source that puts your gang as the group that stole from the Jeweler’s Guild two nights ago, mister. By order of the Watch Commander, I am searching your premise and putting anyone resisting or associated with the theft under arrest!”
Not how Zevara would have run it, but good enough. The Brother pursed his lips as the others behind him exchanged long looks of chagrin, alarm, and, Zevara saw, amusement.
She didn’t like that. It grew worse when the man adjusted his hat and sighed.
“Watch Captain, I’m afraid there’s been a bit of a misunderstanding, as happens now and then. That business with the Jeweler’s Guild—terrible thing. Couldn’t have happened to a greedier lot, says I, but a crime’s a crime, innit boys?”
They nodded as he hooked his thumbs in his belt. The Brother smiled at Ronss.
“Thing is—we’d be happy to let you into this bar and search. Because there’s no gems inside. If that’s the, uh, thrust of your inquiries, we’ll oblige right now, all proper-like.”
“What?”
Zevara saw several [Guards] mouth the word, and Ronss’ eyes narrowed.
“Really? We have the bar surrounded from all streets. And if you think you can disappear through the sewers—”
“Watch Captain. The gems are gone. Assuming I was admitting they were here at any time, they’re gone.”
The man with the top hat spoke over Ronss, and now Zevara realized what that bad feeling in her stomach was. She spoke up from behind her squad.
“Let’s say I believe you, sir. Just…when were these gems gone? Hypothetically speaking.”
He tipped his hat to her, eyes bright, but his voice was as serious as his eyes as they flitted to Ronss, who was beginning to purple.
“Hypothetically speaking, if I were the sort of man who were unscrupulous—and I’m not saying I am either way or not, Watch Captains—I’d be a great big fool to keep something as incriminating as gemstones in a bar, wouldn’t I? I reckon—and this is just me speaking out my hat—I reckon that the moment anyone took something so precious, it’d be sold right off. That very night.”
Ancestors. Zevara closed her eyes for a second. That was tidy work. How did they do it?
The inn. She just bet that a few men with bags of holding could slide straight through the door and into Invrisil. Liska would never check, and Erin was friendly with the Brothers.
The gemstones weren’t here. They probably had been here—for a few hours! Ronss was piecing things together as fast as Zevara, and she heard him growling curses as she edged over.
“Ronss. Ronss, who the hell gave you that tip?”
“Some contacts I know of! You know, informants.”
Zevara had a sudden thought and narrowed her eyes.
“Was it Barman Bobble or one of the old gang?”
His hesitation said all she needed to know.
“They hate the Brothers, Ronss! Whomever sold them out pointed us at them—but they don’t have any gems!”
And the gems were the bloody knife in the crime scene, the reason it would be worth tangling with this gang. The tophat man seemed to have come to the same conclusion, because he called out to Zevara.
“Seems some unscrupulous fellows—or ladies, we can’t discount them—wanted the two of us to have a little mixup, as it were, Watch Captain. Bit embarrassing for both sides, really. I’d offer the lot of you a drink, but I know you’re on duty. How about a firm handshake and we go on our ways? Be a shame to do someone else’s dirty work for them.”
“Especially on Lundas. Shame to get a busted nose on a Lundas.”
Another man with a hat said. He was barely eighteen and grinned—until the tophat man buffeted one shoulder.
“That’s no way to talk to the Watch. They have it hard enough, jobs as it is, keeping these streets safe. And fine streets they are too. Far more proper n’ most in the north.”
He was trying to be conciliatory. However, Ronss was piping mad, and he was growling under his breath.
“Those damn idiots—I’ll haul them into the Watch House for questioning! Stay where you are, you lot! You’re all going in for questioning under truth spell!”
He barked, and the tophat man froze ever-so-slightly. Zevara strode over and gripped Ronss under his forearm.
“Ronss, what the hell are you doing? You heard him—there’s no evidence!”
“We have evidence, Zevara. He just admitted what he did! We grab him under truth spell and we’ve got the gang, just not the loot!”
Ronss wasn’t thinking straight. He was mad, amped up, and he had pulled ten squads of [Guards] off patrol for this. If he had been thinking—Zevara whispered in his earhole.
“Ronss, half of them will have Skills to bypass truth spells. We won’t get all of them.”
“She’s right, you know, Watch Captain. I’m afraid I’ll walk away a clean man with all the effort said and done. I’d hate to put you to the inconvenience. Or embarrassment.”
The tophat man was listening to their whispers with a Skill of some kind. Zevara shot him an eye—his honesty wasn’t helping. Ronss was breathing hard.
“Ancestors damn it, Zevara, help me out here! They’re making fools of us! Venim entrusted me to make an impact!”
“Some days you look like a fool. Let’s go, Ronss. We can’t get them on the gem raid. Not right now.”
This was the moment she’d felt time and again—looking Mister Soot in the eyes when he swore on truth stones he didn’t know about a murder or a disappeared artifact and realizing he’d walk out a free Drake. It was frustrating, humiliating, and she’d experienced it too often to count.
Ronss hadn’t—not from the position of leadership. He glanced at the watching [Guards], and maybe it was that—or Venim talking about how Liscor would be a miniature Pallass. Or maybe it was just his temper talking because he said the wrong thing.
“Well then, we’ll pick up this entire group and shake ‘em until we get something that sticks. You’re all under arrest and investigation for multiple crimes in the city!”
Zevara felt her stomach drop when Ronss said that. The tophat man stopped smiling, and he blinked at Ronss, then her. Just blinked.
“I don’t think that’s a good idea, Watch Captain.”
He said that in a soft tone of voice. It was Ronss who snarled.
“Not enough Skills to hide that many lies, are there? Come on down to the Watch House, gentlemen. We’ll just ask you the standard battery.”
As in—all the basics. ‘Have you ever murdered someone’? ‘Have you committed a crime in the last X number of days?’ ‘Are you in possession of or aware of stolen goods?’
When you had truth stones, you could ask any question in the world, obviously, and get an answer. You just didn’t normally ask all of them because everyone had done something. Like in the Merchant’s Guild—don’t ask questions that fall outside of a specific investigation.
Asking the full range of questions meant you either had someone dead to rights or you considered them so suspect, so criminal, that you were going to dig. To be fair: sometimes you had to dig. Zevara had made Mister Soot go through that battery of questions time and again.
But it was one thing to do it to him, when he was the enemy of the Watch, and another to do it to a gang like this. The Brothers were regarding each other now, and the ones in the bar had gone still.
“Ronss, don’t do this. They’re going to fight. They have to fight.”
There was no way they’d pass enough truth stone questions, and they knew it. Ronss didn’t take his eyes off the man with the top hat.
“If they’re innocent enough, they’ll walk. What about it, sir? Not enough Skills to cover that up?”
“Not enough in the whole world.”
The man in the plain brown clothing murmured softly. He took his thumbs out of his belt-loops and exhaled.
“Watch Captain. I would listen to your friend there. Seems to me…seems to me someone wanted to make an example of things today. I don’t think you’ll get what you want if you continue things. Nor will we. Why don’t we step back and de-escalate matters?”
“You don’t give orders here. We’re the Watch, and this is our city. Drop your weapons and put your hands on your heads—hats. You’re all under arrest on suspicion of grand theft.”
Ronss shook off Zevara’s hand. He pointed a finger at the Brothers, and Zevara swore she heard a sigh run down the street. She stepped back, realizing a die had been thrown. Now it was rolling around in the gutter—
“Squads, spread out. Stay away from the doors, and don’t get separated.”
She raised her voice, and the [Guards] moved apart. The tophat leader just glanced at her, then Ronss, and then he raised his hands to his head. Gently, oh, so gently, he took the tophat from his head and inspected the silver ribbon. Then he tossed the hat to the ground.
The young man did likewise with a blue cap. Another Brother took off a bowler hat and flipped it into the air. Ronss stared, perplexed, as hats showered down to the ground.
“What the hell? I said put your weapons on the ground. Not—”
Zevara had been tensed, ready. But even she wasn’t prepared for the man who’d been wearing the tophat. He stared down at the hat lying in the rain, then his head snapped up. He didn’t draw a blade or a club—he just ran straight at Watch Captain Ronss.
“Ancestors—”
Zevara was drawing her sword when the young man who’d spoken up drew a pair of knives. He charged straight at the full squad of eight [Guards], screaming.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
She froze him, and he collapsed mid-leap, slapping into surprised [Guards]. They shoved him down and tried to cuff him. The paralysis Skill wore off as they were trying to wrestle his arms into cuffs. She saw him heave—and threw a Gnoll [Guard] off him. He lashed out, blades scything around.
“[Disarming Attack]—he’s got knives—”
“They’re coming out the bar! Incoming! On the left—”
Zevara was in the rear, watching the squads of [Guards] reacting as men without hats came out of the bar and side alleyways. She was holding her sword, the melee of bodies drawing closer, a familiar sight—until something hit a trio of [Guards] and tossed them like sticks through the air.
“Ancestors!”
A giant Brother, over six foot five and four hundred pounds, had just crashed through the Watch. He spun, and a haymaker knocked down Guardswoman Jerci, shield and all. He raised a foot, and Zevara shouted.
“[Non-Lethal Strike]!”
The Brother swept around so fast he was mid-charge when she exhaled flames all over him. He screamed, clawing at his clothes, and she stabbed him in the knee—
“[Sweep Leg]! Get up! Get up and reform the—”
Dead gods. She saw another group of Brothers throwing themselves out of an alleyway. They swung their clubs at a group of [Guards].
One, two, three, four—fast as the hammering of her heart. The [Guards] were swinging back, taking the blows on their armor, but the Brothers kept hitting, ignoring blows that cracked over their skin.
—Ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen—a man was battering down a Drake’s guard. Hitting the helmet so hard it was deforming, battering down the falling [Guard]—
Zevara swung her sword, and he blocked; the blow took a huge chunk out of his club. He replied with a [Double Tap] that missed one strike and made her helmet shake. She kneed him in the groin hard. His eyes bulged, and she went to swing at one of his buddies—
His fist caught her under the chest and lifted her off her feet. Her ribs compressed, and she stumbled backwards. He was still coming at her? She’d hit him in the balls so hard—
[Impact Blow]!
She kicked him in the chest and sent him stumbling into another patrol. Then Zevara swung her sword around and executed another [Non-Lethal Strike] to his neck.
Down he went. Zevara saw a [Guardsman] struggling with a Brother punching so hard her leather shield was denting in. Zevara grabbed the shoulder and headbutted the man. He reeled—then his head came back.
She headbutted him again, and her head rang. But she had a helmet on! She drew her head back again, and the third time they collided, his eyes went up in his head. The [Guardswoman] could hit him in the legs and bring him down. Zevara grabbed the panting [Guard]—Jerci.
“Fall back! Squads, get in formation and fall back!”
This was going straight to Rhir. When she turned her head, she didn’t see any squads—just Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans fighting in the street. Only their armor and badges separated the Watch from the Brothers—and the Brothers were winning.
Zevara didn’t realize she’d grabbed her whistle until she heard it blasting out of her mouth. She was blowing a full alarm and heard more [Guards] doing the same. She shoved Jerci.
“Go! Grab anyone who can’t move and fall back to the main street!”
“But—”
A roaring man threw a Senior Guard at them and advanced on the two—Zevara spun and exhaled flames, aiming at his legs as Jerci dragged the Senior Guard to safety. He jumped the flames; she waited for him to land and stabbed through one foot. Then the other as he swung at her.
She stumbled forwards as someone punched her in the back of the head. Lights flashed, and Zevara whirled. She cast around and didn’t see the rest of the squads.
Ancestors. All she saw were either downed bodies or—Brothers. They were chasing the retreating Watch or coming her way.
She spat the whistle from her mouth and drew a truncheon with her other hand. Zevara flipped the heavy weapon up, then tossed it into the face of the first man sneaking up behind her. She opened her mouth, and flames sprayed the rest of them.
They leapt clear of that. Hatless men with too-bright eyes staring at her, blood on their fists, clubs and knives in hand. Street gangs. Not fine, funny men with hats.
Pure street. The kind who left blood on the Steer’s floors if you crossed them—they’d taken off their hats. Damn, damn—
She spat sparks and smoke this time, feinting with her sword, then whirled and slashed across a man’s cheeks. She drew a bloody line across his nose and cheek, but he grabbed her. She was on the ground, claws digging into his arm as he hammered a fist against her head. Then he was reaching for—
His head met her knee as she got a grip on him, and then she introduced his face to the ground. She kicked away from him and got up. Sword? Zevara saw a familiar head of orange hair coming her way. The tophat man charged, head-down.
Ancestors, he was so fas—

10.44 Z (Pt. 2) (2025-08-01)

[Level 33 Streetwise Guardswoman!]
[Skill – Pursue the Quarry obtained!]
 
 
When she woke up, she wasn’t dead. Zevara knew that because everything hurt. But there weren’t any sharp pains; so no broken bones.
Somehow. Nor was she chained up. Another plus. She was, in fact, lying on a cot in a root cellar of some kind. She based that on the smell—and the sounds of movement above her. For a few moments after she woke, she lay and took stock. Mostly of her new levels and Skill.
Nice. Even with her head aching like a football after the Little Crab’s team practice, Zevara appreciated the new Skill. Good for footchases. It was always a bit of a mystery which class would level after she did something. She had to just guess why she gained a level.
They’d raided the Brothers, so why the [Guardswoman] over [Watch Captain]? Probably because the [Watch Captain] had been an idiot, taking that fight when she knew it was bad. The [Guardswoman] had fought decently well enough, hence the levels.
But it’s the [Watch Captain] who’s very much in trouble now. This was bad. Kidnapped by a gang? There was no hiding she was awake; Zevara had moved a bit, and she knew someone was in the room from the faint sounds of paper, breathing, murmurs from above. The creak of floorboards. Cards? A basement?
Time to face the music.
Zevara sat up slowly, opening her eyes, and someone spoke.
“Before you go thinking to do something unwise, Watch Captain, just know the hat’s back on the head. There it stays until it goes off. That’s the way it works, see? Not often we need to remind folks how it goes, but Liscor—it’s new to us. Reckon we’ve both had a bad day, as it were. You’re a prisoner, by the by.”
Her head throbbed. Zevara thought someone had punched it hard enough to knock her out. Her neck felt like it had been twisted half-off.
“For what, a ransom?”
“Just until a few of ours get let out. It’s simple enough. Unless Drakes don’t do hostage swaps?”
“Oh, I think we’ll figure it out. Especially if you got Ronss too.”
Zevara winced as she turned her head; there was a lantern glowing on a stool, and a man was sitting in a chair at a card table. Ah, tophatman.
He looked bad. Cuts on his face and nose clearly broken; a bandage was over it, but she probably seemed far worse. He wasn’t smiling, and a huge gash on his lip twisted as he pursed his mouth to spit and thought better of it.
“Him? He got out. So did most of your guards. They scrap better than most. Or maybe it was because there was a fire-breathing Watch Captain throwing down behind them. You’re lucky you didn’t burn half the boys up.”
“[Non-Lethal Strike]. I don’t kill unless I have to.”
Her jaw hurt horribly. Zevara worked it, then remembered she could use her hands. She touched a gigantic bump, and the tophat man’s lips twitched.
“At least one of you knows the score. Seems to me that Watch Captain Ronss is a fucking idiot.”
“He was promoted to the job last month. And given bad intelligence. He never worked in the Watch when we had to step wary of gangs. Relc and Klbkch were already a duo when he made [Guardsman].”
This civil discourse was nice. She’d had worse after being worked over in a fight. The hatman spat.
“Never got beaten down and left in an alley? What kind of self-respectin’ Watch Captain hasn’t had at least five of those?”
“The kind that comes from Pallass. Venim played this wrong. I don’t know what gangs Pallass has, but I doubt they ever beat down an entire Watch unit.”
Zevara rested her head against a wall. That was what the mistake had been. Well, mistakes.
I should have told Ronss to back it off the moment they said the gems weren’t here. I did, but I thought we could take them.
She’d known the Brothers were dangerous, but she’d never seen them fight like that. She’d thought Ser Normen was some kind of prodigy among them. Now, she wondered why he hadn’t made all of them Knights of Solstice.
“Alright, let’s talk. Who the hell are you?”
“Call me Robb. I’m the fellow in charge of Liscor’s chapter of the Brothers. And you’re the old Watch Captain. The one who knows this city. The one who’d know better than to force a gang to put its back against a wall.”
“If I knew better, I’d have stopped this from getting out of hand. My city’s changing. I never ran into a gang like yours back in the day. Even Soot’s heavies didn’t fight like that.”
Robb grinned and grimaced as blood ran from his cut mouth.
“We have a reputation we aim to keep.”
And it was going to go through the roof now they’d taken out ten squads of Liscor’s Watch. Zevara didn’t know how they’d address the Brothers. With heavy gloves, she suspected, if they had to arrest them. If not…leave them be.
Damn it. She’d have preferred the Watch won that fight, but she supposed they had done well enough if they’d mostly gotten away. Certainly, another Brother at the table appeared pretty bad. Oh—he had a huge scar across his cheeks and nose. A clearly healed wound from a very straight slash.
He was the one she’d cut in the fight. He must have had a healing potion? For a bad cut like that, he needed it. He had a bowler hat on and gave her a nod.
“Nice swordwork, Watch Captain. Nearly put me to rest, so it did.”
They were way too convivial, but Zevara wasn’t fooled. There was an edge to the Brothers right now. She suspected only the hats on their heads were keeping them civil. Impropriety had been offered—she was in danger.
“So…do I get to keep all my pieces if the hostage exchange doesn’t go forwards? Or is there going to be a message?”
Robb shuffled the cards hard without eyeing her.
“Depends on how this Watch Commander plays it. But we’re an upstanding sort, Watch Captain. Looks bad, don’t it, if a beloved Watch Captain gets hurt. The Brothers make a living keeping the streets clean. Not bloody. Blood only goes down when there’s a point.”
He stabbed the table so hard his finger left a hole in it. Yep, he was mad. His head turned to her.
“Seems to me—someone owes us a lot of blood for this. Not every fellow’s walking away from this. Now we’re in bad with the Watch, and the Watch’s got a bloody nose. You wouldn’t happen to know who decided to tell that fine Watch Captain we had all the gems in our bar?”
Zevara thought of Bobble and kept her face straight.
“If I did have names, I think I’d put myself at risk of their wrath.”
“Not if there’s none of ‘em left to be wrathful.”
Bowler hat rumbled. Zevara felt a prickle down her spine. Alright…if she said a name, people would die. She could—if a [Guard] had died or been maimed, that was on Bobble or whomever had set up this disaster. Played both sides against each other. But she felt the [Watch Captain] in her refuse.
This was a mess. This was bad—and she knew that the Brothers were on a knife’s edge, almost literally. Even so—Zevara’s eyes narrowed.
“If you think Liscor’s going to roll over and let you in as the only gang, you’re mistaken, gentlemen. The Jeweler’s Guild was a big move. Too big for a gang. That’s all flash, not what I’d expect of quiet folks like you.”
Robb raised his brows, amused.
“You think so? It’s big, it’s showy, aye. But it ain’t earning us bad marks as far as I can tell. Who cries for the [Jewelers]? Not many. They’re rich here as in any other city. We know who to hit if we want people to smile at us on the street. We take where it makes sense. Don’t squeeze a rock for water. Squeeze a fat, bloated tomato and water the streets a bit.”
“Downright altruistic of you. So you like to spread the wealth?”
“Modestly. Maybe we have to bribe a lot of hands. Not much to do but take our coin.”
And have everyone rooting for you to hit another fat [Merchant]. Wonderful. It was going to make rooting the Brothers out very hard if no one minded their presence.
“So you mean to tell me your gang’s a net positive for Liscor? I’ve heard you clean up the streets. You cut down on bad crimes, and only do protection money and big jobs? You must leave the small fries to their work. For a bit of money from them too.”
Robb gave her a gap-toothed smile.
“It don’t pay to be honest, Watch Captain. But it pays to be the cleanest rat in the bucket. I hope you can see your way to avoiding this kind of thing with us again.”
For answer, she just spat blood out of her own mouth.
“You’re lucky he’s on desk duty or you’d have met Sergeant Relc today. You think that cute shoulder-charge works on him?”
There was a chuckle in the room, and the air grew colder. Robb dealt his cards with a sigh. He tossed down a card in front of Zevara, then another as he circled the table.
“Looks like we’re going dancing with your district in the future, Watch Captain. Can’t say I’ll enjoy that. At least you’re not in charge of northwest.”
Ancestors, they were going to be a problem for Ronss. Zevara checked her cards with one hand reflexively. Two 2s. She raised her brows.
“What’re you playing for? Unless you left me my money pouch—”
“Oh, it’s just pride and life on the line. Same as always. What’re you in for?”
She glanced at the group of men and then made a beckoning gesture with two clawed fingers.
“How about you tell me what your best item you sell is. And if none of my [Guards] are lying in a morgue, I don’t come back with the Free Antinium and Sergeant Relc.”
Robb actually missed serving a card. He half-spun in his chair, and one of the other men at the table, the four-hundred pound giant, lowered his cards.
“‘Scuse me, Watch Captain. But I reckon you don’t get who’s being interrogated here, as it is. I don’t think you’ve got that many cards to play.”
“Deal them up. What are you selling, and why does it involve the Antinium?”
Robb was dead still as he eyed her, and Zevara’s gaze didn’t waver as sweat slid down her spine. She added after a moment.
“Noiraid told me I’d get an answer. Don’t leave me hanging.”
He blinked and then flicked a card at her. She caught it. Another 2. Robb dealt in the table, except bowler hat—he’d folded. He stared at her.
“You know the good missus?”
“I’m on an investigation. Antinium have been stolen from, and Humans are doing it. Want to clear your names?”
There was a laugh from the watchers in the background—and then Robb blinked.
“We wouldn’t steal from them. They’ve got nothing as-is. We trade with them, Watch Captain. Fair prices, with our margins. Miss Noiraid could tell you that herself. Unless she pointed the finger our way.”
She hadn’t. In fact, the Brothers were a good candidate for this set of thievery, but it just didn’t fit them. Zevara sat back as another card was dealt. A [Prince]. She still had a few more cards. Metaphorical, and literal.
“I want the truth. Give me what I want or believe me, I can make trouble.”
“You and your entire Watch House, Captain Zevara? How do you think that’ll play?”
Robb held the fifth card between his fingers to her, and she bared her teeth at him.
“I don’t know. Ever thrown down with Antinium Soldiers? There’s at least three hundred of them in the Free Hive.”
She grinned at their blank expressions, and clarified.
“Under the treaty with Liscor, they can have three hundred Soldiers at maximum. Though it looks like more when they’re on the streets. When the Watch in Liscor falters—the Black Tide marches.”
Robb stared at her until a smile split his lip again, and he handed her the final card. She showed three 2s, a [Prince], and the [Archmage]; no one had anything higher than two pairs.
“Well played, Watch Captain. Someone get her a sample to look at. We had to dip into the stash after this scrap. Our most valuable item does come from the Antinium. Miss Noiraid brokers a lot of it. It’s rare, and we sell it to very, very interested clients. All of ‘em north-folk. Big names. A few have come down to get it direct like, but it’s a very respectable business.”
Zevara got up as the table broke apart, and Robb motioned. Now she was onto it—she saw a familiar scrap of parchment in his hands. He offered it to her, and she unrolled a cheap bit of writing paper with words that glowed on them.
“Don’t read the whole thing unless you want to use it. We’d charge you for that.”
She blinked down at the writing. It said:
 
‘Hope. What is hope? Hope is something you must learn, for we are born without it. We are birthed, given our tasks, bleed, suffer, and die, and there is little hope down there. 
Hope is the first moment you realize that things can be better. It is a taste of fresh air. Hope makes life harder, because once you feel it, you cannot unfeel it or lose it. It is heavy and painful, and it makes the darkness and the suffering worse.
Hope is worthless if it is alone, because it is just longing, and it will never save anyone. Hope is not faith. Faith that is just hope means you do the same thing without working to make things different. Faith, and true hope, is action. When it is dark in the Hive, dig up to the light…’
 
The glow from the text seemed to fill her up, as if she heard a voice speaking the words. A familiar voice. Pawn’s voice. She felt like something was stirring inside of her, a feeling provoked by the words—until Robb snatched it from her fingers.
“Apologies, Watch Captain. That fellow has a way with words, don’t he? But this is worth more than you make in a month.”
“What—what is that?”
The leader of Liscor’s Brothers offered her a crooked smile.
“Something only Antinium can make. It takes all forms. Mostly the good word. Sometimes other things.”
Now her mind was focused. Zevara croaked.
“Other things? So regular Antinium walk around with—this?”
“I think the fellows in that Hive don’t realize what they’ve got. Or they don’t care. There’s not much of it, mind. Good enough to sell in small batches, but quite a few fine fellows have it. Most won’t sell; it’s Miss Noiraid who knows who’s willing to part with it for gold. You say someone’s stealing this stuff?”
Zevara looked the Brother in the eyes.
“This is a Watch matter.”
“Of course, of course. But that’s bad for business. If the good bugfellows started getting antsy, that hurts us all. I’d love to comply with a Watch inquiry into important business.”
She folded her arms and made a quick decision.
“I think some people don’t understand how to tell what’s genuine…stuff apart from just possessions. Thefts have occurred. Humans. Your lads wouldn’t know anything about that, would you?”
His eyes narrowed. Robb motioned to her, and she followed him up out of the cellar. The rest of Brewman’s Bar appeared fairly trashed from the fighting, but he moved past Brothers who were in annoyingly good shape and found another familiar face.
“Lemmingway, you do work with Miss Noiraid, right? You have anyone stealing from the bugs on those streets? You’d stop it right quick if you did, correct?”
Lemmingway, the young man who’d charged her with knives, was sewing up an elbow with needle and thread. That was tough—he glanced up, startled.
“That, boss? Yeah, we ran off a few idiots. They just tossed what they took. I woulda given them something more, but you said go gentle. So we went gentle as milk on a cat’s tongue. Gave it back to the Watch fellows who showed up, nice and proper.”
That squared with Guardsman Cossl talking about how some items were recovered. Even so—Zevara frowned.
“Lots of Antinium were missing things.”
“How many thefts have you seen?”
Robb demanded, and Lemmingway protested as he bit the thread in half with his teeth.
“Not that many, Boss! You want us to look out for that kind of thing?”
The Brother’s leader nodded, and Zevara thought that would help—but it didn’t deal with all the Antinium who’d already lost items. Poor Carpenter Laikos—but now she knew why the items were being stolen.
Just not what they were.
“I want to know where the Antinium sell this stuff. Maybe I can see if anyone else is lurking about. You said the north has lots of buyers? Not the south?”
Robb raised his brows.
“Oh, aye. All the big players—and new ones. The Flower Lady, Mister Thighs—he’s new, but sharp—and the old players. The Wit, the Shallowgrave Sisters—all under House Roses, you know? Anyone with eyes wants them.”
She had to decipher some of that. She didn’t know all the nicknames, but everyone knew Magnolia’s, and Mister Thighs was obvious. Well, well, well. But it begged the question—
“Really, the nobles?”
“Oh, and the gangs. They’re all respectful of us because they know what we’ve got, and none of them thought Liscor was worth the effort.”
“None of the south?”
Lemmingway laughed at that, and Robb snorted.
“The south has different deals. The gangs, yes. But no city. Who’d want Antinium goods? We made some offers, and they turned their noses up. More for us. Astonishing, really.”
He shook his head, tutting over the failure of Drakes. Zevara was stung by that.
“You don’t mention Gnolls in all that.”
“Ah, them! Well, I think Miss Noiraid has another deal going on. Clever folk, that lot.”
Huh. Something no Drake was part of—well, it made sense with the Antinium—but everyone else wanted badly. Zevara worked her jaw with a wince.
“Okay, I want a guide to the spot now.”
“After we make sure the lads are out of holding, Watch Captain.”
Robb answered instantly, and she remembered she was a prisoner. Right. Damn. Zevara was about to ask if they had a pillow so she could lie down and let the world spin for a moment, or if they had a drink, when there was a knock at the door.
The Brothers went quiet. Lemmingway produced several needles, which he held between his fingers.
“There ain’t a codesign. You want us to—?”
Robb rose slowly.
“Hold on. Hold on—”
His eyes flicked to Zevara, and she hoped like hell Relc wasn’t stupid enough to raid the Brothers to save her. Not even with the entire Watch House! Zevara was tensing, ready for anything, when someone kicked the door in.
Then there was fire. A Brother ready to leap on the intruder froze up, and the green flames burned, making the men with hats flinch back. A man pulled off his helmet, and Zevara stared.
“Gentlemen. I’m a bit disappointed in you all today.”
Ser Normen was wrapped in green flames. The [Knight] strode into the bar fast—ignoring the dangerous men around him, because he was one of them. Or had been. His eyes were focused on Zevara, and Robb put up his hands fast.
“Normen? Ser Normen? We were just—”
“I’m here for the Watch Captain before things get messy. I heard you threw down with the Watch—Captain Zevara’s a friend of the inn. A friend of the Order of Solstice. If she’s hurt—”
Two more [Knights] were at the door. One had pink flames—Jewel? And the other had grey and black flames, and a Brother who had caught sight of him went dead white. He backed into one wall, and Zevara squinted at a [Knight] she didn’t recognize. Robb choked as he saw the third [Knight]. She saw his face drain of color.
“T-that’s—”
The rest of the Brothers were ready to go, not seeing whatever he had. Zevara moved. The [Watch Captain] didn’t realize she was between the two armed groups until she was shouting.
“Stand down! Stand down; that’s an order! I’ll have no more blood here! Lower your weapons!”
To her amazement, it worked. The armored [Knights] hesitated, unwilling to stab her, and one of the Brothers halted, hat in hand. Robb leapt in as well, shoving his people back.
“Hold it, hold it! That’s Normen! Back it up!”
Normen lowered his mace and looked Zevara over as the Brothers untensed.
“Watch Captain? We thought we’d have to rescue you. Are you alright?”
She winced as she tried to smile at him.
“Just beaten up. The Brothers got it bad too. Is anyone dead or…?”
“There are a lot at the [Healer]’s, but somehow, no.”
He seemed as confused as she did. Normen glared at Robb. Zevara moved to keep herself between him and the other man—she felt like one punch and there might be more blood and she refused to have it. Normen snapped at Robb, confused and angry.
“How did the Brothers take off their hats and no one died?”
The big man rubbed at his nose, clearly unsettled. And as the rest of the Brothers cooled, they seemed to notice something that drained the fight from them too. Zevara was so busy glancing around for danger she didn’t see what had them on edge. Robb muttered.
“W-we scrapped hard, but we used some of our inventory to ensure no one kissed the ground for good. That looks real bad. But, ah…Normen. That’s a dead man behind you.”
Robb was still staring at the unknown knight. Zevara was trying to remember what each fire meant. Grey…and black. Robb was backing into a wall. Normen just gave Robb a weary smile.
“Dead’s no excuse when there’s things that matter to be done. Watch Captain Zevara’s coming with us.”
“But the lads—”
Normen’s green flames burned as he pointed at Robb.
“She walks. And mind the rest of the fellows understand that some things you take your hat off over—this? You put it back on. The city needs her.”
Zevara wasn’t sure she liked being singled out like this, but she did appreciate the dramatic rescue. She nodded at Normen, waiting for Robb to object, but the [Knight] with the…bowler hat was striding into the room.
“Hello, lads. I have an offer for you.”
Crimshaw smiled with two eyes aflame, and Zevara stepped back from someone who gave her all the wrong vibes. A killer as cold as Soot, blazing with beautiful, deadly fire.
She glanced at Normen, and he nodded to her.
“We came to make sure you were alright. The Brothers will be—a problem for Liscor, and we can’t stop them. I’m not one of them anymore, even if they respect me.”
She nodded at him.
“That’s my problem. I appreciate you putting in a good word for me. They won’t cut my throat if I arrest too many of them.”
“Oh, they only do that to the Watch Captains they think are rotten.”
He offered her a weary smile of regrets and motioned to the door. Jewel saluted Zevara with her sword.
“Can we take you back to the Watch House, Captain Z?”
The withering glance that Zevara shot her made the [Swashbuckler] falter. The Watch Captain shook her head.
“No. Actually…you’re too noticeable. If I can go on foot, I have somewhere to be.”
The [Knights] blinked at her, but she had just had a thought. Now was the perfect time to go to the spot where Antinium sold their items. The entire city knew the Brothers had just thrown down with the Watch. If a thief was going to be anywhere…
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, Zevara was panting and walking down a street in the warehouse districts near the Antinium Hive entrance. She was almost grateful that all eyes were on the Brothers’ hideout; few people took her as anything other than a [Guard] on patrol.
She eased into a shadow, groaning as she felt all her bruises screaming at her. This was apparently a street where Antinium could sell those mysterious scrolls. What they were…she’d forgotten to ask Robb. Damn. She’d go back later if she needed to.
What a day. What a disaster. She had to debrief with Venim and Ronss about just how south this had gone, but if no one was dead—she just needed to figure this out. A small win, that was all!
A Human shoving one of the Workers down so she could nab them and arrest them and close the case. But life was never that easy; no one committed crimes in front of the Watch, because, well, that’s what they were there to deter. Duh.
Zevara saw several Antinium glancing around as they held objects that looked suspiciously like bits of wrapped up scrolls…or maybe even bigger texts. They were all coming out of a warehouse’s side exit while Antinium Workers loaded it up with goods and brought out more.
Aha. A place where Antinium would always be, so if a few snuck away…Zevara sighed. Actually, it occurred to her that the thieves had never struck here in her interviews. Of course not. This was the one spot where there were too many Antinium.
“Think, idiot. You have the Brothers doing ‘official’ business with Antinium, some [Thieves] trying to cut out the middlemen, and people trying to just buy and sell here. All of it illegal or unregulated, but only the [Thieves]…why steal? Why not just buy it outright?”
Well, being cheap was always a reason. Zevara eyed a gaggle of Antinium comparing what they had in their hands. They looked like…regular Workers. A Soldier? And a Painted Worker? Oh my, the Antinium were learning to be criminals. At least, some of them. She sighed, wondering if it was worth just approaching them and asking what they were doing—they might freak out, though, if they thought she was going to arrest them. But she didn’t even think they had real contraband. Just—
At that moment, a black carriage with the crest of House Reinhart on it rolled past Watch Captain Zevara in the street. Her jaw dropped.
Lady Cecille Reinhart’s carriage came to a dead halt in the street, and that rat-faced [Driver], Sollux, leapt down. Three of the flunkies did likewise and he snapped his fingers.
“You lot! We want to buy whatever you’ve got. Pronto! We’ve got gold. You get that? Gold.”
The Antinium had jumped when the carriage appeared, and they hesitated, then crept forwards nervously. Sollux rolled his eyes and made beckoning motions as the carriage window rolled down.
Zevara couldn’t believe her luck. She crept forward as the Antinium spoke to the impatient [Driver]. He was glancing around warily as they were and spoke loud enough to hear.
“Yes, gold. Give us all of the things. The genuine articles, not…er, Your Ladyship? How do we know what’s authentic?”
He hurried over to the window as it rolled down more. From her side of the street, Zevara only saw the other side of the coach, but then she heard a slap, a yell—and the Antinium flinched.
Sollux came back, rubbing his face.
“—Just give it over! And it’d better work or we’ll tell your Hive-leaders or whatever about this!”
The Antinium were very nervous then and argued amongst themselves before one was brave enough to hand over a little booklet. Sollux stared at it, showed it to the flunkies, who all shrugged, but then ran it over to the coach. He came back.
“Okay, that’s one. Is that one? How much?”
The Antinium didn’t know, so Sollux counted two gold coins into a palm. The Antinium clutched them to his chest, and Zevara thought of the pet shop.
How many pet shop tickets and acid fly bowls did that buy? Or Fortresses of Fluff? Now she saw why Noiraid and the Antinium were selling this stuff. She bet Noiraid got a better price, though. From the looks of it, these Antinium had just caught onto the deals like she had.
Another one was approaching the carriage—but Sollux waved them back.
“No, no, you don’t approach her with your filthy everything. You give it to me, I give you gold. Her Ladyship doesn’t want to breathe the same air as you v—v—very nice bug people, got it?”
Dead gods. The sheer contempt radiating from the carriage was like an aura in itself. Actually…Zevara knew something about auras as Lady Cecille definitely had one. Her boredom, contempt, and dangerousness coiled around her like a snake’s scales. Zevara eyed the carriage, wondering when she should interrupt—
And then an eye appeared in the blinds. One huge, staring, green eye. It swivelled right, left—and locked onto her.
[I See You]!
It was as if someone had drenched Zevara in cold water. She jumped back with a jolt of surprise—too late. She’d been spotted? How?
Lady Cecille Reinhart—! Some kind of Skill? When Zevara peeked around the corner again, cursing, the mood had changed. Sollux was in his carriage, and the three flunkies were striding her way.
“Ancestors—”
Zevara stepped out from behind her corner as if she’d intended to do that all along. Instantly, the three bodyguards halted, and the Antinium froze. They fled as she raised a hand.
“Wait! No one’s under arrest—damn it.”
The guilty ran when the Watch came, and the Antinium were very guilty, even though she doubted she’d have even done more than lecture them. Lady Cecille Reinhart, though, was made of sterner stuff.
The window cracked down slightly as Zevara walked over.
“Lady Cecille, a pleasure to see you again.”
“Watch Captain, how unfortunate. Tell me, does the Drake Watch enjoy harassing the nobility?”
“We don’t have many of your class in our cities, Lady Cecille. I do apologize. May I ask what you were doing?”
The [Lady]’s voice was unruffled, and she didn’t even glance at Zevara; she was literally powdering her nose using a mirror. But that eye had been all malevolence a second ago.
“Merely some business, as I informed you and that thug of a Drake last time. Have I done anything illegal, Watch Captain?”
“I don’t know. It seems to me you have been dealing with Antinium quite personally.”
“I have stolen nothing, Watch Captain, as you observed. And I tire of your accusations. Whatever you may think in that copious brain of yours—”
Cecille Reinhart drawled, then snapped.
“—I have broken no laws in Liscor. Put that on a truth stone and eat it!”
Zevara had pulled out a truth stone and was indeed staring at it. It flashed white, and she had a thought.
You can fake these things. But is she? It looked above-board to me, but…
“I’m afraid I’m allowed to ask more questions, Lady Cecille. Roll the window down? Completely, if you wouldn’t mind?”
She bent down and peered into the carriage. The window came halfway down, and she finally saw the pale-faced, pursed-lips of Lady Cecille Reinhart. She was…well, Zevara didn’t know if she was attractive by Human standards since they were all sort of doughy, but the scowl probably didn’t help.
She was wearing different clothing today, but the scarf remained. Zevara glanced at Cecille Reinhart and guessed at her height. Then she smiled.
“What is so entertaining, Watch Captain? Or does the rain truly grow mushrooms in those brains of yours?”
Zevara’s smile gritted, but she just eyed the scarf.
“Lovely scarf you have on, Lady Cecille. Almost like…rosewood crossgrain.”
She thought nothing could have made Lady Cecille look more like she was scraping skunk droppings off her foot, but the slow head-turn of outrage said that Zevara had managed a mortal insult.
“Rosewood crossgrain? I knew Drakes had no taste. Just look at you. But you think this resembles the inside of some tree? This is Scintilla Ichtania, the thread of the Crimson Weaver spider. The most complex and beautiful cloth you will ever see in your life.”
The scarf whirled as she lifted it, and Zevara saw it didn’t really resemble the grain of a tree at all. In fact, she was surprised even Carpenter Laikos had mistaken it for that. The insane spiderweb pattern that whirled across the [Lady]’s body were like a million branches of a spider’s web writhing and dying in a bloody sea of night.
Beautiful.
Haunting.
Expensive.
But close enough to rosewood crossgrain, she supposed, for an Antinium [Carpenter] to mistake it as such. Zevara leaned over the window.
“I’m afraid that makes you even more of a person of interest in my case, though, Lady Cecille Reinhart. When was the last time you went down, oh, Colecutlet Street?”
The expression the woman gave her was of utter scorn.
“Do you think I know the streets of this damned wet city, Watch Captain.”
“…I suppose not. Then when was the last time you wore an all-blue dress and pushed a Worker on the street?”
Zevara’s eyes were locked on the [Lady] for any tell, any sign, and her truth stone was in her grip. The [Lady] just stared at her. Stared at Zevara with utter contempt on her face…until her eyes narrowed.
“Listen to me, Watch Captain. I swear, on House Reinhart, by my blood, and by my hope to never be bothered by you again that I never have left this carriage while in this city. My desire to walk the slippery streets? Zero. I have stolen nothing. I have committed no crimes in this city. Yet.”
The truth stone was shining white the entire time. Zevara gave it a dismayed look. What in the…?
Cecille gazed pointedly at the stone.
“Now, if you will excuse me? I suggest you use that brain you claim to have, Watch Captain, and refrain from chasing the wrong tail. Aren’t you Drakes good at that? Or is it just the dog-Gnolls?”
Zevara jerked back from the window, and it snapped up.
“Hey! I wasn’t done asking questions—”
The carriage shot forwards, and she nearly fell on her face. Growling, Zevara saw the flunkies stepping back as the [Driver] whipped the horses forwards. She strode after Cecille.
“Halt in the name of the Watch! I have—”
She saw the carriage shoot down the street annoyingly fast even in the rain and on the slick ground, then come about sharply. Zevara sighed. Even the [Lady] wasn’t stupid enough t—
The carriage accelerated fast. She jumped left, swearing, and saw the horses swing around—the [Driver] was giving her a pale-faced, wide-eyed stare as he yanked at the reins.
Then he ran her over.
 
——
 
This time, there were sharp pains in her chest. Broken ribs. Zevara lay on the ground as someone walked over to her. A foot nudged her in the chest.
“Oh dear, you’ve run her over. Sollux, you fool! Quick, summon the Watch! Guards? Guards! Arrest this man and save this poor Drake!”
Ow. The foot had kicked her in the broken ribs. Zevara lay as the shout was taken up, and she hoped someone had a healing potion. Someone…
A voice interrupted her pain after a while. Someone bent over her, shielding her from the rain.
“Watch Captain, I do not believe your investigation is going well.”
“Noi…raid?”
The dame was back. Smoking on a nali-stick. No, wait, she was just eating it. She had the envelope in her hands; Zevara’s vision was hazy.
“Yes, Watch Captain. I believe you have been hurt quite badly. And you have not found the thief yet.”
She just ran me over. But Noiraid seemed to disagree. She squatted down.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart is a difficult customer. She haggles and goes behind my back. It is muchly inconvenient, as Bird would say. I knew she was dangerous. Thank you for being an example.”
“Call a [Healer].”
“Hmm. I do not think that will help with the broken bones, Watch Captain. I believe you require a favor. And a demonstration, now that you have some answers. I hope you will deal with this matter for me. Carpenter Laikos did not want his new doll, and I do not like failing.”
What? The doll? Was this just about the doll? Zevara didn’t understand. The dame stood over her and pulled something out.
“Here we are. This is a very good one. Listen, please, Watch Captain.”
She read from something in her hands. Zevara listened, and it felt like Noiraid’s voice shifted slightly. Still female, they embodied another speaker, or perhaps…many, all speaking the same words. And not just words—she felt like the meaning was in her broken bones. Filling her.
“When it is dark in the Hive, dig up to the light. See it, time and again, because no one should ever keep you from the sky. We have rules, my brothers—and sisters—and orders, and a Queen. But we also have our own choice to make. We may live down here and merely hope, abandon it, or we can do what we must. What we must, because we can, and because no one else will save us.
Not even her. What we receive in our lowest moments is merely…a helping hand. A finger in the right direction. The rest is up to you. So when I say, ‘I hope’, my friends, I truly mean ‘it must be’ someday, somehow. Even if I must make it happen myself.”
Then there was light—and a cessation of pain, and Zevara gasped as she pushed herself up. She came up, water spilling out one earhole, shaking herself, and stared down at her armor. Her ribs! She—felt at her ribs.
“Huh? I’m—I’m healed?”
Noiraid lowered the blank scrap of paper and handed it to Zevara. It crumbled to ash as the Watch Captain saw the glowing words that she had been reading dissipate in her grip.
“Very healed, Watch Captain. Even your bruises.”
It was true. Zevara felt at her jaw, and the swelling was gone. She inhaled—no sharp pain, no footsore blisters—
“Dead gods! That was like a healing potion! A high-grade one? Is that—”
Noiraid dusted her palms off.
“Yes. And yes to whatever you were going to ask next. You have your answers, Watch Captain. But I am still missing mine. I would offer to help more, but—”
She glanced around. Pounding boots and whistles—a Watch patrol was coming. Noiraid walked towards the Antinium still loading things into the warehouse.
“I think the Watch is very busy today. Please try not to get yourself badly hurt again? The market value of this article of faith is higher than the sum of gold you gave me.”
Then she was gone, and Watch Captain Zevara was invited, once more, to a meeting with Watch Commander Venim.
This time, he wasn’t very happy.
 
——
 
There was an art to being chewed out by a superior. Truly, Zevara had lots of experience with it with the old Watch Captain. How you reacted or what you gave your boss mattered.
Sometimes, you just stood there and took it like a lump—other times, you fired back, depending on whether or not you’d pay for it. For instance, Zevara used to be summoned and scolded for ‘stirring the pot’.
The old Watch Captain, Eresc, had been big on not stirring pots. Every time she’d gotten one of Soot’s subordinates, or made a big fuss, he’d accused her of putting the Watch in danger. And she’d argued with him until he’d thrown something at her, because she was a Senior Guardswoman and if he fired her, the people who’d voted her into her position would have something to say to him—and Liscorians had never been exactly quiet about how they felt.
Venim was different. She liked him, but it was clear now they had philosophical differences in how they operated. And she needed to get along with the Watch Commander, so Zevara tried not to snap.
It worked well at first, because the first thing he did was offer her a seat and ask if she needed a [Healer].
“You’re not looking as rough as I feared. Did you have a potion, Watch Captain?”
“No potion, but I got some healing, sir.”
“Really? How?”
She hesitated, but he should know about the scrolls. Venim’s jaw dropped when she relayed that.
“Healing scrolls? Ancestors, and the Antinium have them and they’re, what, manufacturing them?”
“Yes, sir. Which explains the thefts and, to some extent, the trouble I’ve been having with other individuals of note in my investigation. Has Lady Cecille Reinhart been arrested?”
Here Venim hesitated, and Zevara’s heart sank.
“She’s fled the city.”
“No, in fact, she was very cooperative in summoning the Watch. At this very moment, your assailant is in prison. Sollux, I think? Her [Driver].”
“Her…she ran me over, Venim!”
Zevara’s ribs hurt just remembering it, and Venim sighed.
“On truth stone, her man swore she gave him no orders whatsoever and admitted to hitting you. She passed every truth stone test—and she’s a Reinhart. She’s paid a fine, and her servant is in jail. This…is a complicated matter, Zevara. I was going to address the Brothers raid first, but you deserve to hear it straight off. Before she was even in my office, I had an [Advocate] for House Reinhart meeting with the Council.”
“An [Advocate]? What kind of class is that?”
“The kind that advocates.”
Venim didn’t laugh. He glanced to the side.
“House Reinhart controls a vast amount of trade. Magnolia Reinhart’s family…they run Invrisil. I suppose they took it from her? They indicated that if Lady Cecille was impeded in any way, things would get—messy between Liscor and Invrisil.”
“So you arrested her. That’s an open threat against Liscor.”
“After deliberations with the Council, we fined her extensively and let her go. There’s a precedent, Zevara—”
She was on her feet. This was where the anger came out. It reminded her of Soot, and she said so.
“Watch Commander! We don’t bow to outside pressure!”
“Captain Zevara, take a seat.”
He waited until she did and stabbed his desk a few times with a claw.
“That’s an unfair statement to throw at me, and you know it. How many times have you gotten orders from a Walled City and had to enforce them? We don’t want trouble with House Reinhart. If she had crossed the line and you’d been maimed, I’d have her locked up. But I am told that House Reinhart loves to make their point with [Assassins]. Esthelm’s Watch Captain and Celum’s sent me a [Message] to that effect. These new Reinharts—or old ones, I can’t tell—are aggressive. You’re not the only one Lady Cecille has run over.”
“What? She makes a point of doing that?”
Zevara was stunned and outraged. Venim clarified.
“Not in our city, but it seems vehicular damage runs in that family. We should arrest her, Zevara. But she has truth stones on her side.”
Truth stones. Zevara felt at the one in her pocket and cursed.
“A fat lot of good those have done me recently! Every single person I’ve used it on has evaded it or I’ve been certain they could subvert the stone.”
“Well, maybe I can help with that, Watch Captain.”
Venim was giving her a guarded expression, and she blinked at him.
“What?”
“I’m going to put you back in office in the northern district. Relc will act as acting Watch Captain in your district—you take the northern Watch House. Captain Ronss handed in his resignation an hour ago. I’m trying to talk him out of it, but we need to show people the Watch hasn’t been beaten. The fact that you walked out of their bar is a good start.”
Zevara’s mouth dropped open.
“Ronss did? But the raid—”
She caught herself, and Venim put one fist on the table and gazed at her heavily. Guilt in his eyes. Different from the bad Watch Captain Eresc—he spoke straight out.
“I take responsibility for the failed operation as much as Ronss. He told me that you had a bad feeling on the ground—we should have sent Sergeant Relc and double-checked the information. And known how dangerous those damn Brothers were! We can’t afford to back down, though, Zevara. Not now that we’ve gotten a bloody nose.”
She stared at him.
“With respect, Venim—I think the error was in doing the raid once we knew there was nothing to be gained from it. And the last thing I think we need is to take on the Brothers.”
“Excuse me?”
He blinked at her, genuinely confused. Zevara repeated herself.
“I met the leader of the Brothers—Robb. He seemed willing to avoid more fighting if we can help it.”
“Captain Zevara, I can’t believe I’m hearing this from you. Did they use a Skill on you? A gang of criminals just attacked the Watch in broad daylight! Examples have to be made!”
Ah, there was the disagreement. Zevara took a breath.
“Again, with respect, Venim, I think that’s the Walled City in you talking. This is a nasty gang. Taking them on would cause a lot of casualties—true casualties, not the dustup we just saw. We don’t have Pallass’ armies backing us up. After seeing the Brothers fight, I’d soon as let them exist without going after them again. To that point, it’s what the rest of the gangs want. They’re annoyed the Brothers are muscling in and hoping we wear ourselves out battling each other.”
His jaw worked as Venim actually pulled out her file and glanced at it.
“Zevara. You went after the Soot gang for a decade. Your tenacity and unwillingness to back down is local legend. Where is this coming from?”
She looked him in the eye, seriously, hoping he’d understand.
“The same place that the rest of me operates, Venim. Practicality. I never closed the Corused Steer—a bar I know deals in drugs and has murders aplenty. I went after Soot because he was a bastard who pushed the line, went after the Watch, and wanted to make this city his. But I’ve always let some problems go.”
“But the Brothers just attacked us—”
“Because we forced them into it, sir.”
“So there’s no plan on biding our time and striking this Robb fellow later? Building a case? If that’s it—”
He was still fishing for something she didn’t have. Zevara rolled her shoulders.
“Let me put it like this, Venim. There’s problems in the city. [Murderers]. The corrupt—and there’s flaws you can deal with. The Brothers aren’t a problematic gang unless they’re pushed. We have more to deal with like the Antinium thefts—”
“Hold on, hold on. You’re putting two dozen Antinium thefts over the Brothers? Are you mad? Zevara, you took on Soot! We have a Watch three times as large as yours was!”
“I never got Soot!”
She snapped back and tried to modulate her voice. Venim sat back, and Zevara’s tail lashed. She couldn’t help it.
“I never got him. Sometimes you can’t, and I had Klbkch and Relc on my side. I guess Lady Cecille Reinhart is the same. Unless they slip up, some fish are too big to catch. But the Antinium—that’s something I can handle. No one’s paying attention to the Antinium, Venim. That’s on us.”
“They’re part of their Hive. I assume they police themselves for internal affairs. As for this…this is highly distressing, Watch Captain. I don’t…”
Venim pinched the bridge of his snout with his claws.
“—I don’t consider them an issue. I consider the integrity and image of the Watch in Liscor paramount. Ronss is shaken. The Watch is shaken. I need you leading the Watch, not pursuing lines of inquiry that get you run over.”
That stung.
“I thought I was supposed to be finding a niche that fit me with less work, Commander Venim.”
He raised his hands.
“One that is structural, in keeping with your office, not acting like a [Guardsman] on an investigation, Zevara! You’re out of office all day, and you take Relc, who’s supposed to be leading—then it’s down to the Desk Sergeants to keep order. What if there had been a crisis?”
This was true, and Zevara hung her head, trying to find a response and realizing that was her mistake. Venim stared at her until he broke the silence.
“I’m taking your advice on the Brothers under advisement, Watch Captain.”
He was? He gave her a nod, stiffly offended.
“I’m not an idiot. This is your city, and you were there and saw them in action. Even so, I’m making a judgement call as Watch Commander—I’ll put some good [Guards] on the Antinium theft case. Antinium, maybe, since it’s their matter. You’re to act as north district’s Watch Captain until Ronss gets back or we get a new Watch Captain. Assuming you’re not hurt.”
He eyed her, and Zevara hesitated, because that was largely reasonable…but she knew herself. She was about to push back.
“May I make a suggestion, Commander?”
“Very well…”
She saw him frowning and knew they were both trying to be reasonable. Zevara took a breath.
“Don’t let Ronss go on break. Or resign. Put him back in charge of his district. If he can’t handle it, he can’t. But he made a mistake. Dead gods, I’ve made plenty. He goes in, he puts in effort, and the [Guards] will support him.”
“Hmm. I can talk to him.”
Good. Venim nodded, and Zevara went on.
“Second—give me a [Guardsman]. One of the Antinium, but let me continue working the Antinium case.”
“Oh come now, Watch Captain! I’m compromising here! Can’t you do the same?”
Venim snapped at her. She flushed.
“This is a bigger case than I think I anticipated, Watch Commander. Now we know what the Antinium are selling—I was told that Cecille Reinhart, the Five Families, and major gangs are all buying the healing scrolls! This is huge. If it really does heal as well as potions—and it healed broken ribs—then this is thousands upon thousands of gold pieces in a black market. It’s only going to get bigger.”
He drummed his claws on the table, frowning hard.
“I can’t believe there’s just some magical ‘healing’ that can replace healing potions, Zevara. There has to be a catch.”
“Maybe it’s more limited than we think, which is why everyone’s fighting over it. The north…but not the south.”
Right, hadn’t Robb said that? Venim raised his brows.
“If there is a healing item of any kind, then the Walled Cities will want it, Zevara. They’re not blind.”
“No. And it’s odd. The north never had strong ties to Liscor…why is no one in the south buying this, even on the sly?”
“Well, they’re made by Antinium. I wouldn’t trust an Antinium healing potion, would you?”
Venim gave her a supercilious look until he realized that she probably would, and her best Senior Guardsman had been an Antinium. He coughed.
“—I see your point, Zevara. Even so, this hunt has nearly gotten you killed once. Put it in your people’s claws.”
She didn’t want to. She trusted a lot of her [Guards], but the Antinium were an unknown quantity. They were hard to talk to, thought differently, and it made work with them difficult—even for other Antinium, she was realizing.
“With respect, Commander, I’d prefer to be kept on the case.”
He exhaled hard.
“So noted, Watch Captain. But I am your Watch Commander, and I’ve heard you on Ronss, the Brothers, and the rest of your duties. I’m ordering you to focus on the big picture. Appoint some investigators in the Watch, oversee them. Drop your involvement in the case.”
He tapped the desk, and she shot him a surprised expression and saw his face was set. And that he thought he was doing this for her own good. Much like when she told Jeiss or Beilmark they were needed on another hunt and they kicked up shit.
‘Yes, sir,’ would be an appropriate thing to say here. She’d gotten him to move on a lot—a lot more than she thought she’d do if she had a Senior Guardsman telling her how to do her job. But…
She thought of Carpenter Laikos and the strange Miss Noiraid. Would another Antinium even be able to interact with her and know how much more—streetwise she was? Would another member of the Watch?
Humans didn’t know Antinium well enough. Most of the [Guards] weren’t Liscorian natives from decades ago. Beilmark was, and Relc knew Antinium, but they were in leadership positions. Moreover, they were dealing with [Merchants] and Lady Cecille, and there were still those two agents mucking about. They needed authority. Did she have a Senior Guardsman pair who could do that…?
“Watch Captain, your word?”
He was getting impatient. Zevara cleared her throat.
“I, uh, if I could lead a training group on the—”
“No, Watch Captain. You’re off the case. Understood?”
He snapped at her, and she almost saluted. He was pressuring her. Some kind of authority Skill? Or just their classes—[Watch Commander] over [Watch Captain]. Her mind said ‘say yes’. But her treacherous mouth said:
“No, sir. This is a critical issue to the city in my opinion. I need to pursue it.”
Uh oh. She saw his face harden when she said that, and she realized that with all his affection and respect for her position and attempts at being reasonable, he was still a Watch Captain from Pallass.
“I’m the Watch Commander of Liscor, Captain Zevara. I gave you a direct order. You don’t have to like it, but it’s done.”
“I…feel the need to disagree, Commander Venim. I think you’re not considering the Antinium angle due to bias.”
His eyes narrowed. She stared over his shoulder. Then he just sat back and exhaled.
“I think this has been a hard day for the both of us, Watch Captain.”
“Probably, sir.”
Her head still felt like it remembered pain, even if she’d been healed. She was exhausted—healing scrolls or not, healing still took a toll. Venim nodded a few times, staring over her shoulder, and they both realized they had the same expression when they were in uncomfortable moments like these. Venim smiled briefly, then nodded.
“Clock out of your work. And take the rest of the week off. Paid leave. Sick leave, rather, since you were hurt.”
She blinked at him. Venim added as he glanced at her claw, still holding the truth stone.
“And turn in your truth stone and your armor to Sergeant Relc.”
“My truth stone—?”
She realized what he was doing, and Venim gave her a level, cool stare.
“We’ll revisit this conversation once we’re level-headed, Watch Captain.”
He was putting her on leave. She couldn’t believe it! It was deft, framing it like sick leave, but she’d pushed the limit, and he was taking her off-duty for a week!
Part of Zevara, the Watch Captain, had to admire the way Venim had defused their argument. The rest of her was hopping mad.
“But I—”
“If whomever Sergeant Relc assigns to the case can’t find answers, then we’ll talk. In a week. We’re doing it my way, Watch Captain. Truth stone, please.”
He didn’t trust her. She hesitated, then placed the truth stone on the desk with a soft click. Zevara stood back and nodded to him.
“Watch Commander, thank you for your time.”
He gave her a pained gaze.
“I am exceptionally glad you weren’t injured in the fighting, Watch Captain.”
She hesitated on the way to the door.
“Thank you, Commander. It was hairy.”
“Yes—I had twenty squads ready to grab you while we released the Brothers. Then you were missing, and we didn’t know where you were and only had their word you were alive. Sergeant Relc was ready to go in himself. The Council almost called Strategos Olesm for some of his people.”
He’d done all that for her? She flushed. Now, she felt like a callous idiot.
“Venim, I only meant—”
Venim waved a claw at her.
“Let’s not be hatchlings about it, Zevara. We’re heated. Next week. Please, get some rest. You look like you’ve been run over—twice.”
And that was that. She left his office, and the [Receptionist] tried to pretend she hadn’t been listening in to the entire thing. Zevara walked back heavily to the Watch House, where everyone began applauding and cheering when she came in.
“Watch Captain, you made—”
When they saw her face, the cheers died down. Zevara glanced at Relc, who hesitated. Clearly a speaking stone had already informed him—
“I’m on sick leave for a week due to my injuries. Sergeant Relc, you’re acting Watch Captain. Take over the Antinium case for me, would you? I’ll have a report for you.”
Zevara took off her armor as the [Guards] murmured. She put it in her locker, then wrote up a report. Handed it to Relc. He gave her an odd gaze.
“Ancestors, Captain. You got punched in the head by Brothers, got run over by a [Lady]…did Venim finish the job?”
“He put me on break, Relc. That’s all.”
She offered him a weary smile, and he looked her over, then patted her on the shoulder.
“Yep, that’d probably kill you. Sorry, Captain Z. I mean, Zevara.”
She wished he wasn’t so right. Zevara mingled in the Watch House for a while, checking on Jerci—who was okay save for some bad bruising on her stomach—discussing the raid and trying not to let them dwell on Ronss’ mistake—and then she saw them all staring at her awkwardly.
In plain clothes. Right. She was…on break.
Zevara put her hands in her pockets and walked home in the rain. She hadn’t been put on break since she was a Senior Guardswoman.
Damn.
She really hated it.
 
——
 
The next day, Zevara woke up feeling stiff, but way too vigorous given all she’d gone through recently.
“Ancestors, the scroll does work.”
She’d half thought it’d wear off in the night, but she almost leapt out of bed and had so much energy she went shopping and filled her pantry. The bicycle helped; she pedaled through the rain and thought about Merchant Yerham.
“He’s part of the thefts. He knows about the scrolls. That’s clear. Cecille Reinhart, Yerham, both approached Crusader Lehrne, who was selling them. And the two Drakes, Moass and Hissl, know too!”
Wait…they knew. Were the Walled Cities catching onto the issue? That explained a lot. Agents paying attention to the inn, and they’d definitely know about the healing scrolls. Venim was sure to file a priority report.
That suggested they’d known earlier…but Robb had insisted the Drakes didn’t buy any scrolls.
Hmm. And Merchant Yerham…she hadn’t gotten enough out of him. There had been that bicycle theft. Did Relc have people looking into Yerham?
Zevara was halfway through making breakfast when she decided that she should check. Not that she was going back to work. She was, uh, just…
 
——
 
…Bringing her patented ‘bread and meat fry’ to the Watch! Zevara strolled into the Watch House, and the Desk Sergeant stared at her.
“Captain, is something wrong?”
“Er, no, no…just bringing some food around. Want some of the old fryup?”
She offered some bread tangled with a bit of ham, which became a new fusion with some oil and eggs scrambled into it. The Gnoll grabbed a piece and took a bite.
“Err, greasy as always, Watch Captain. Thank you.”
“Sergeant Relc around? I mean, acting Watch Captain?”
The Gnoll grinned at her.
“He’s in your office. He keeps coming out because he says he feels like he’s being scolded by your chair.”
Zevara laughed at that. She headed around and surprised guards who were coming off duty or clocking in—they took some food, made small talk with her—and Jerci came out of the kitchens.
“Hey, I’ve got the pot pies finished. Did someone burn some—Watch Captain?”
She had made over six dozen small pot pies and filled them with a Gnollish meat filling. The first one was as good as anything you could get at a restaurant; Zevara tried to hide her scraps behind her as Jerci took a bite.
“Yum. Tastes like my dad used to make, Watch Captain.”
“Er—you cook well, Guardswoman Jerci. They’re putting you on kitchen patrols often, it seems?”
The [Guardswoman] rolled her eyes.
“Yep. Just because no one wants the Antinium to cook. But I swear, Bootstrap can cook better than Sergeant Wodriff.”
The Desk Sergeant barked at Jerci as the others laughed.
“Watch it, Guardswoman Jerci! I can make a mean stew!”
“Yeah, so can Bootstrap. And his is better because he follows the recipe exactly, sergeant!”
Having tasted Wodriff’s cooking, Zevara would take Bootstrap’s offering over that. She might not cook as well as Jerci, but no one avoided her food. Though it did sting when she heard a younger [Guard] lean over and whisper.
“Jerci, I thought your dad was still alive?”
“He is. We just made him stop cooking.”
Gnolls sometimes forgot other people could hear whispers. Zevara cleared her throat as she addressed the room.
“So…any trouble from the Brothers? What about Ronss?”
She asked, and Jerci glanced at the others.
“Ronss is in office. He looks pretty bad, but everyone says he’s checking on those who got busted up. He walked with my squad last night.”
“Good of him. Are you sure you should be on your feet, Jerci?”
“It’s just a bruise, Watch Captain! You saved me from getting stomped by that half-Giant of a Human.”
She saluted Zevara, and the Watch Captain smiled. Another Senior Guard put in.
“The Brothers are quiet. Annoyingly quiet; some came over to ask if everyone was well. Polite bastards. I hear there’s trouble on the streets, though. Someone wants to know who tipped us that bad intel. Watch Captain, I heard half the Corused Steer mysteriously burned last night.”
She winced.
“Knowing Bobble, he’ll have it up and running in a few days. I want a bit of payback for that bad information as well, but I’ll be content to just ruin their business. The other gangs will be more active when we’re recovering. So I want eyes on them—”
She remembered she was on break.
“Er—is what I’d advise. I’m sure Sergeant Relc is taking care of everything.”
They nodded, and as if she’d summoned him, Relc came crashing down the stairs.
“Wodriff, where the hell do you stamp equipment forms—hey, Captain Zevara! What’s going on? Aren’t you on break? Venim’s going to spit fire if he hears you’re here.”
She jumped.
“I’m not doing anything, Relc.”
He gave her an unfamiliar, amused look as he folded his arms.
“Sure, suuure. I’ve got this, Zevara. Don’t you worry—I put people on the Antinium case. They’ve already got results.”
“Th-they have?”
She was dismayed as Relc nodded and turned.
“Jerci, you and Bugeater Squad took a walk around, right? Tell Zevara.”
He’d put Jerci on the case? The [Guardswoman] brightened up.
“Right, that was after Ronss checked on us. We went around and talked to lots of the Antinium who were stolen from, Watch Captain. Bugeater Squad did most of the talking, and then they told the Painted Antinium. Got us a meeting with Prognugator Pawn and everything.”
“You—you told Pawn?”
Zevara shot Relc a worried eye, but she realized Relc hadn’t had her conversation with Noiraid. The [Watch Sergeant] nodded happily.
“The Painted Antinium didn’t even know it was a big problem. They’d heard of a few thefts, but not among their own that much. Pawn said he’d re-issue all of them with whatever they lost, then taught the Antinium to call the Watch, not leave it till later. And guess what I found?”
He brandished something at her. It was a stack of reports.
“Senior Guardsman Lens’ reports. Seems like he really did get all the stuff back for the poor Antinium. Over sixty missing items cases—fixed.”
“He did? Then the ones I interviewed…”
“Probably the ones who aren’t gonna get their stuff back, but I reckon we sorted a lot of that, Captain Zevara. I think that covers the problem—we still don’t know much about the thieves, but I hear there’s a bit of a buzz about the scrolls.”
Relc tapped one earhole meaningfully. Zevara focused on that.
“Wait, news is spreading?”
“Sure is. Well, Valley told me that. She can, uh, read high-level [Messages] apparently. Seems like Pawn realized how valuable his scroll-things were, so he decided to offer them for sale. But the Walled Cities told him to eat his tail. Well, they told Venim that—you know how they are with Antinium.”
He grimaced, and Zevara shook her head. The anti-Antinium bias was way too strong.
“Those’re healing items! We need some for the Watch, Relc!”
He grinned at her.
“Don’t worry, I sent a note to Pawn with Jerci asking if he’d sell some to us. See? Black market dies down, Antinium get most of their stuff back, problem solved. We couldn’t have done it without you!”
Relc was trying to be congratulatory, and she knew this was, in fact, fine work from him. From [Watch Sergeant] Relc? She’d have given the old Relc a medal for this much forward thinking and tact. And yet…
“So you didn’t get more about the thieves, Jerci?”
She turned to the Gnoll, who scratched one ear and called someone over.
“Not really. Bootstrap, it was mostly the same as in your report, right?”
“Yes, Off-Duty Captain Zevara. The stolen-from Antinium reported a man in [Merchant] clothing matching the description of Merchant Yerham or a woman with a patterned red-and-black scarf much like rosewood. The Antinium are very embarrassed—they did not know that their items were being recovered, and they were ashamed to tell Pawn.”
Zevara’s heart sank. Nothing more than what she’d gotten. She thanked Bootstrap, who saluted her, and turned away.
“Well, uh, I guess that’s that. There was no problem on your patrols, then? Good work, you two.”
Jerci beamed, and Bootstrap saluted again.
“No trouble, aside from one attack by an Aberration, Watch Captain. However, the Painted Antinium took custody of him.”
She paused. Zevara’s head swivelled.
“An Aberration?”
The Watch muttered, and Relc lost his smile. Jerci nodded, puffing out her chest.
“Oh, yeah, he just came at us while Bootstrap and the others were questioning him. He was screaming about a doll or something—we got him down, and then the Painted Antinium took him away.”
“They didn’t kill him?”
Relc had a troubled expression on his face, and Jerci shook her head.
“Nah, they said that Pawn was going to pray for him. I didn’t know you could do that. I guess the Painted Antinium really are different. Poor Worker, really. A lot of the others seemed super upset too. All the ones on our report didn’t get their stuff back.”
The Watch concurred, murmuring amongst themselves.
“It happens. Who steals from Workers?”
“Well, they didn’t have anything to steal…guess they’re now going to be reporting crimes. Hey, Captain, are you going to hang around here all day? You’re looking peaky, even if you did get healed.”
Zevara was? She looked around for a mirror, then remembered there was one in the bathrooms for the Watch. When she walked in, Zevara halted and just stood there.
An off-kilter, blue-scaled Drake blinked back at Zevara inside the bathroom, one without armor, purpose, or the strength of law on her side. Zevara saw her reflection in a mirror, and she realized Relc was right. She was pale. Off. Bad. Suddenly, she smelled something rank, despite Jerci’s fresh pot pies.
That stink in the air. Grime under her claws. She glanced at Relc and saw he was trudging back upstairs, getting back to work. He didn’t see it. He hadn’t talked to Laikos or Noiraid—or maybe he was just too busy seeing the big picture.
But she didn’t think this case was closed all of a sudden. Zevara clenched her fist. Laikos! Noiraid—!
I need to get back on this. Now. She could just hear Venim telling her that the matter was resolved gracefully with Relc’s presence, but she needed to know more. Pawn. Yerham—wait a second, Bootstrap had just confirmed that Lady Cecille and Yerham were subjects of interest again! Thieves? But she’d passed the truth stone—
Damn the truth stone. It wasn’t useful in this case. Zevara used it all the time now, but she remembered a time when she hadn’t had one. Back before every Senior Guard was issued one—you had to trust other Skills or just your gut and evidence.
[Guardswoman]. [Watch Captain]. Her classes were writhing at her, now. Both of them said injustice was being done, that there was something missing. That someone was laughing at them while the wool was being pulled over their eyes.
She hated that. But the [Watch Captain] had been put on break! Her claws were tied. She had orders, and the Watch had to have orders. Venim was her superior…
Zevara wanted to punch one of the armor lockers. She stared at her own locker on the far end with her gear in it. Without it, she was nothing.
“With it, you’re still nothing. A failure of a [Watch Captain].”
A Drake stared back through the mirror at Zevara. Not the tired, uncertain, off-duty Drake woman, but someone who was even filthier. Footsore and tired, up against impossible odds.
The [Guardswoman] spoke, her voice growling.
“Attacking the Brothers was always a mistake. The Watch doesn’t pick stupid fights. No matter how hard it gets, it only takes one bad scrap and there’s blood on the streets. You almost got them all killed.”
Zevara blinked. Without even a change, she found herself gazing at a coughing Drake wiping smoke from her mouth. She stood taller than the [Guardswoman]’s slouch, but she was weighed down by duties. Responsibilities. Red tape.
“They broke the law. The Watch Commander gave me orders.”
The Senior Guardswoman sneered back.
“Orders. You ignore those when you have to and pretend you did your best. Nothing on the street fits the box you want the law to go into. Orders didn’t get us out of the Brothers’ den. It was a mistake to go after them.”
The Watch Captain hung her head for a moment before meeting her counterpart’s eyes.
“Yes. It was. I should have pulled Ronss back, rank or not. But that doesn’t mean I’ve been doing it right in the investigation, either. Look at you! You’re just running around, reacting to problems. No plan, just harassing a list of suspects. Lady Cecille is completely innocent, and so is Merchant Yerham. We don’t have anything on them, and Venim can see that!”
She jabbed a claw at the mirror, and the [Guardswoman] recoiled. Zevara growled back, defensive.
“I’m working with almost no evidence and only a single partner, if that! You know how the job is! I’m not some Level 50 [Investigator] who can pull the answer out of a Skill! I have to pressure them!”
The Watch Captain folded her arms, disgusted.
“You are a Senior Guardswoman. How is twisting Merchant Yerham’s arm in the guild in any way acceptable? I’ll have your badge.”
“Hah! Venim has your badge! You and I both saw Yerham’s face. He’s guilty.”
“You can’t run your investigation off that.”
“It’s called instincts. I know you have them.”
“We represent the law in this city, and part of that is being trusted!”
“Then why didn’t Relc stop us? He saw the same thing we did!”
The sounds of the Watch House were muffled as the two argued, nose-to-nose against the mirror. Someone rapped on the stall door.
“Occupied!”
Both shouted, and the surprised [Guard] retreated. The Senior Guardswoman lowered her voice, mindful of the noise they were making. She snorted a spark out of one nostril and cursed.
“Damn, that smarts. Look at us. We’re nothing without the armor and the badge. My way isn’t wrong.”
The [Watch Captain] opened her mouth, and Senior Guardswoman Zevara lifted a claw.
“I am not wrong. Remember the kid who stole the bike? Did you see me haul him off to the Watch House for a night behind bars? I didn’t. I could have, and I didn’t.”
“He was a [Thief]. He stole, and he’ll do it again. Liscor has a program for children like him. You should have hauled him in.”
That made the Senior Guardswoman uncomfortable, so she turned away from the mirror.
“We…grew up like that. We turned out okay. He was small fry, anyways. Look, I know the difference between a big crime and a small one! I ran down that damn [Thief] who went after the bike in the Merchant’s Guild because it was different. Adjust to the crime. Merchant Yerham knew something, and he has the weight of the Merchant’s Guild behind him. I had to push. Same with Lady Cecille.”
This time, the Senior Guardswoman waved a finger before her counterpart could get a word in edgewise.
“Don’t say a word. You saw it. She did ‘nothing’ wrong. But remember how we found her? She was barging into Honored Deskie’s workshop. Let’s say we weren’t there. Do you think her bullyboys and that [Driver] wouldn’t have harassed the Gnolls there? Maybe they make a few threats. Maybe Deskie calls for the Watch, but I bet she’s smart enough not to make an issue about it. The [Lady] gets her way, and no one’s ever filed a complaint with the Watch. Nothing for you to dirty your tail over, Watch Captain. This is what I think of that.”
Zevara spat into the porcelain basin and wiped her mouth. The [Guardswoman] exhaled.
“The law must be nuanced. It has to hold power to account—more than those without. Everyone tries to dodge the law, but some can dance with money and Skills. And they’re doing it now. You have to put me back on the case.”
The Watch Captain knew she was right and hung her head.
“I don’t know how. Venim—damn him, he’s in his rights to take me off duty. This is too personal. I’m going crazy.”
The Senior Guardswoman barked back.
“Nonsense! No one cares about the Antinium enough. No one sees the picture, even other Antinium. That’s why it matters. It has to be us. This isn’t some great, big crime sweeping Liscor. It involves powerful people, but it’s always been about those without a voice. Antinium Workers. If the Watch isn’t there for them, then who should it be there for? The Jeweler’s Guild?”
She injected all the scorn into the world in her voice. Watch Captain Zevara stood there, shaking her head.
“The Watch is there for everyone, Guardswoman Sunderscale. It’s just…”
She paused, and the other Drake waited, eyes bright. The Watch Captain slowly tightened her claws on the sink basin. She tried to articulate what was boiling at her, and then she had it.
“It’s not about who has more power, who’s richer, or needs more protection, Guardswoman. This isn’t just a theft. It’s killing Antinium. Carpenter Laikos has been declared an Aberration. The Brothers pulled a non-violent heist. This is a homicide. A slow one, but if you take away Oldbreath Cough tonics from someone with excessive Dragonbreath buildup in their lungs, they die. And Laikos won’t be the last one.”
It clicked, and both Drakes stared at each other. The Watch Captain straightened and felt at her clothing.
“You need a badge.”
“And armor. At least, I need help.”
They nodded at each other, suddenly resolved. Zevara exhaled. It had been a while since she’d had a heart-to-heart with herself. She nodded, reached out, and shook hands.
“Ow.”
She’d punched the mirror by mistake.
 
——
 
A few [Guards] were eying one of the bathroom stalls when the door finally opened. One of the Gnolls was whispering.
“I swear, there are two women in there. They keep shouting at each—huh?”
When the door opened, they saw Zevara in plain clothes coming out, flicking water from her claws. The other [Guards] eyed the Gnoll [Guardsman]. He hesitated.
“I swear, I heard two voices shouting at me! Uh—”
Zevara gave him a friendly nod, oblivious, and strolled into the Watch House. There she stood and folded her arms, observing. Thinking.
The course was clear, but the path was still shrouded in darkness. Time for solutions.
This break Venim had put on her wasn’t the worst punishment ever, in hindsight. Zevara could go out and make inquiries on her own. Why not? She was off-duty…but she wanted to talk to Yerham and other people. She might get to Pawn, but never Yerham as a private individual…!
Her frustration was her lack of rank. If she could only go out there as an officer, not some random Drake! However, the odds of snatching her gear out of her locker, with everyone here, were zero. Even Gireulashia, that giant Gnoll who could move like a breeze, couldn’t evade that many eyes. Venim would have to discipline her for that.
Hm. Zevara’s head tilted as she heard Relc shouting from the 2nd Floor, asking if anyone knew where they kept seals for Street Runners. She thought of the Drake who also had two classes from his time as a [Soldier] and as a [Guardsman]…
An idea pinged Zevara’s mind. Slowly, she uncrossed her arms and looked around the Watch House, carefully. Several [Guards] were eying her, gossiping about how she’d been put on leave. But they were sympathetic, not watching her. So, Zevara sauntered over to the desk and called up at Relc.
“Hey, Relc. I’m heading out. You’ve got this well in hand; I shouldn’t have nosed about. Good…job. Ancestors, why does that feel wrong to say?”
He grinned at her, trying not to seem proud.
“It’s weird for me too, Captain. If Klbkch could see me now…I miss that bugger. You know, I have a Watch report for his arrest? For kidnapping a [Prostitute].”
Sergeant Wodriff spat his coffee onto his desk, and every [Guard] in sight focused on him with a thousand questions. Zevara just grinned at Relc and suppressed her own mad questions. Focus.
“I’ll, uh, ask about that later or Venim will kill me. Question—all our old stuff’s in the storerooms here, right? The new Watch Houses have all the new gear.”
“Yep. Snazzy new armor, the latest stuff, some of it from Dwarfhalls Rest or Pelt’s smithies—why?”
“I think I left some of my stuff in the back. I never claimed it because I’m always working—mind if I grab it?”
“Sure. Who’s got a key to the storerooms?”
Relc cast around, and Wodriff tossed a key at Zevara. She caught it, thanked him, and unlocked the musty back rooms where old gear, broken items in need of refurbishment, and so on were kept. She came out less than ten minutes later, flipped the keys to Wodriff, and waved.
Ordinary Citizen Zevara walked onto the streets, adjusting her bag of holding on her belt. She inhaled, exhaled, then coughed.
“Damn dust.”
She decided she’d go to the bath house next.
 
——
 
The bath houses of Liscor were big, had private bathing areas, hot and cold areas—and offered more than just bathing. You could get laundry done here for a small fee; with all this hot water and soap, it just made sense.
Zevara paid a few coppers for her own stall and a bit of soap and stepped into it. She cleaned up a bit—then dumped some absolutely grey water into a sluice. She did that a few more times, then walked over to where heating runes would dry you off. After standing there a few minutes, she smoothed her neck spines and checked her face.
She was rather…familiar bare-headed. But if you put on a Drake’s helmet, the cap of leather with a gap on the back so your neck spines nestled amidst the leather hood—why, then she looked like any other [Guardswoman] Drake with blue scales.
Assuming, of course, she had armor on. But that would be ridiculous! Her Watch Captain’s gear was right in the locker in the Watch House where she’d left it. And it would be a crime to steal Watch armor. She didn’t commit crimes.
On the other hand, if you went in the back of the Watch House, you might well find some old, battered armor that hadn’t been repaired and re-issued to new [Guards]. More importantly, a Watch badge. One that belonged to her, so she could take it.
Senior Guardswoman Zevara was written on the gold-plated badge that she polished on her worn armor. It still fit, and even if she was slightly damp, the [Guardswoman] looked the part.
The bathing house attendants barely glanced twice at her except to nod at a [Guard] on patrol as Zevara stepped out of the bath house, adjusting her uniform. She told herself that it wasn’t going behind Venim’s back.
He’d just…not realized that she had two classes. He could bench the [Watch Captain], but the [Senior Guardswoman] had a case.
“This time, we’re going to do it like the old days.”
Zevara didn’t have her sword; she swung a worn baton around on a leather strap as she strolled down the street. Following her instincts.
Something was wrong in Liscor, and she wanted answers. However, a good [Guardswoman] needed backup. In lieu of official support, she went searching for the next best thing.
 
——
 
“Zevara, are you alright?”
Lyonette du Marquin eyed Zevara in her scruffier armor when the Drake came to call at the inn. It was chaotic as ever; there were a lot of undead around, and Zevara really wanted to know why a pale-faced man was being bandaged up by Colfa.
“Never better, Lyonette. I’m actually on a…private investigation. Hence the armor.”
“You, a private investigation? Does the Watch Commander know you’re doing this?”
“He’s aware of my status.”
Zevara avoided Lyonette’s eyes, and the [Princess] narrowed them. Zevara coughed a few times.
“I, uh—is everything well with that fellow? I was wondering if you had time to go for a walk with me.”
Lyonette was one of her only friends. The [Princess]’ eyes lit up, but then her face clouded.
“I wish I could, but the, ah, situation is a bit fraught right now, Zevara. You see, Vaulont there, had a run-in with, um—remember Tessa?”
“Shriekblade?”
Zevara saw Vaulont pulling at a big gash on his cheek. Lyonette’s nod said a lot. Zevara wilted.
“Oh. Well, if you’re busy…is there anyone else free?”
She cast about, and Lyonette’s head snapped around.
“Not Mrsha. Absolutely not her!”
“Mrsha? Why would I take a child on an investigation?”
Lyonette was half on her feet before she relaxed, put a hand over her heart, and breathed.
“What—of course you wouldn’t. Not you, Zevara. I’m sorry. Mrsha’s at school anyways. I just—had an image of Senior Guard Mrsha arresting Lism for some reason.”
Zevara almost laughed at that. Someone else raised her hand.
“Well, if she needs a sharp mind, I can—”
Ser Dalimont grabbed Nanette and jogged out of the room with her under one arm as she kicked and shouted. Children weren’t exactly on Zevara’s Top 10 list…or any list, actually. She frowned, then had a thought.
“I know. Is Bird here?”
“Bird?”
 
——
 
Bird was in her tower, shooting at fish with Elia Arcsinger. Both stopped and turned when Zevara knocked on the door—because it said to, and also not to come in unless Bird was present.
“Watch Captain? I did not do it!”
“I…didn’t say you did anything.”
“Oh. Well, what am I doing if not the thing I did not do?”
The [Queen] relaxed. Zevara glanced around.
“I was actually wondering if you knew where, uh, Noiraid was?”
“Noiraid? Oh…no.”
The Drake waited for more, but Bird just strung an arrow.
“You don’t have a way to contact her?”
Her? Elia’s ears perked up, but Bird just shrugged.
“I am not like Pawn, Watch Captain. I let Noiraid do whatever Noiraid does. Which I am not very clear on, but she says she is happy, and that is that.”
“You have no idea what she does?”
Zevara was utterly skeptical of this, but Bird shot her a look out of one emerald eye.
“It seems to me that knowing what she does means I get in trouble with people like you, Watch Captain. Noiraid comes by on the weekends to watch movies in the theatre. She likes the smoky-ones. Kevin’s laptop has better taste than Erin’s brain. Now, if you will excuse me, I am pretending I am busy so you leave me alone.”
“Er…you wouldn’t happen to want to join my investigation?”
“No.”
“You don’t even know what—”
“Lalala, I am shooting fish. For a cooking dish. If I sing loudly enough, maybe Zevara will leave me alone. She and I are not buds, because I think she is a…hm. That’s too harsh, actually.”
Zevara sighed. It occurred to her now she had missed out on possible backup by not cultivating strong ties to The Wandering Inn. She was trooping downstairs and wondering if she could get someone else she sort of liked. Who was she on good terms with?
…Liska? Zevara was walking down the second floor when the door opened and someone stepped out.
“Dude, soccer isn’t that fun.”
“Football. And that’s my entire job, man. Don’t make me kick you. I don’t want to kick a guy I cried over.”
Joseph and that familiar young man…Randy emerged from a room. Randy froze when he saw Zevara, and she blinked at him.
That’s Kevin’s old room—
He leapt inside so fast Joseph was left standing there. He saw her and started.
“Oh—Watch Captain! Hey! Hey—how’s it going?”
“Joseph. Who’s your friend?”
“Who, K—Randy? He’s shy. Unless this is a really good time to say hi?”
Joseph glanced at the door, but Zevara put up a hand.
“I’m actually in a bit of a hurry, Joseph, apologies. I’ll meet your friend later. Randy?”
“Uh, yes. Hi, Watch Captain! Great to meet you.”
A wobbly voice came from inside the room, and Zevara raised her brows. She leaned over to Joseph as the [Football Coach] hesitated, then trotted with her.
“He’s really shy—”
“Tell me if it matters, Joseph. I’m used to secrets. Just—please tell me this is one of those Human names that doesn’t mean what I think it does and not a nickname? Like Noass for Drakes?”
Joseph stared at Zevara open-mouthed and then peeked back at the room. It took him longer than she liked to realize that she was joking. Then she heard a strangled noise from inside the rooms. It sounded like someone trying to stifle laughter. Then a brief sob—and a gale of amusement.
Familiar, infectious laughter. Zevara’s steps slowed, and she felt her scales prickling. She turned her head.
It was like a memory coming to life. An impossible sound—a familiar voice. And the head of sandy hair…no, black…?
Like a friend you had said goodbye to forever that appeared in your head when you least expected them. A memory, fading with years, that every now and then grew vibrant and cut you again.
Only it wasn’t…a memory. There were tears in his eyes, and he was sagging against the doorknob. He wore a shirt with Solar Cycles emblazoned on it, and his eyes were filled with pain and guilt, and he appeared older.
The Watch Captain halted. She forgot her case. She forgot her weariness, for a moment, and forgot that the ashen wheel turned and there were no miracles.
No.
Perhaps.
In this inn…? Her heart began to constrict, and she remembered why she avoided this place. Feared it. Even her.
“Kevin…?”
He raised his head and regarded her, and the [Mechanic] closed his eyes, then opened the door.
“Hey, Captain Z. I didn’t run over your tail this time. Do you like my bicycle after all? I’m…back.”
He spread his arms guiltily.
“Sorry I didn’t say anything earlier. I’m supposed to be dead to the world.”
She just stood there as Joseph caught his breath. The Watch Captain turned back around and looked Kevin up and down. She hesitated—then her voice croaked as smoke trailed from between her teeth.
“Did we bury a fake? Was it so Roshal didn’t—?”
Her head swung to a window, where a hill sat in the rains. Kevin shook his head, wordless, and he was beginning to tear up again.
“Damn [Onion Ninjas]. All I do is fucking cry…no, it was real. It’s just—the same reason you had Goblin Kings running around. This inn. Just this inn, Zevara. And a miracle.”
He spread his arms, almost as if he wanted her to be angry. The Watch Captain said nothing at first, but her mind wondered what an [Onion Ninja] was. Then…she raised her hand and saluted him.
“Welcome back, Kevin Hall. Watch my tail this time, will you?”
She averted her gaze and brushed at her eyes with her free hand. She got no further, because he rushed her in a hug. Zevara gasped as she felt real arms throw themselves around her.
I’m supposed to be at work. I can’t cry. Just—just—
She patted him on the back and almost broke. Almost—but Joseph’s muffled sob made her and Kevin glance over. The [Football Coach] blew his nose on his shirt.
“Fuck me, Kevin!”
“Dude, privacy.”
Zevara began laughing. Despite herself, she couldn’t help it. On her darkest days, when her city seemed the grittiest—she would never admit it to the [Innkeeper], but she was glad to have that inn there.
Proof of miracles.
 
——
 
It took Zevara a while to process this unexpected moment. But she had time; Kevin walked with her back to Liscor, and Joseph tagged along. He bounced a ball on one foot, and she and Kevin talked.
“So you’re hiding your identity because you’re worried Roshal will finish the job?”
Kevin was dry-eyed, but sniffing.
“Mostly, yeah. I’ve been telling everyone I know. Listen, you can’t report this or anything, okay?”
He gave her a serious look, and she frowned, slightly hurt.
“I wouldn’t put you in danger.”
“Right, but I just mean, you’re sort of the law and…”
“I know when to bend it.”
Joseph and Kevin exchanged a skeptical gaze, and Zevara frowned.
“I do! I’m not even supposed to be on duty, but I’m doing it.”
Kevin blinked.
“Wait, wait? You’re…what’s going on?”
Nothing would do but for her to explain what she was doing. Zevara grew embarrassed as she told him she’d snuck her uniform out, but Kevin wore an expression of increasing delight.
“Dude! You’re doing the undercover cop schtick? You’re going rogue? Where was this Zevara last year?”
“I’m not going rogue. I’m just…”
Too late. Joseph and Kevin wore such looks of delight that she knew she was playing into some kind of Earther-notion of theirs. Zevara stomped on, grumbling.
“This is why I can’t talk with you people. I’m getting back to work. I’ll check on you later, but I have a job to do.”
“Nonono, you have to take us as backup! Joseph, dude, are you free?”
“I’m so free to bust some heads on the mean streets.”
The Watch Captain thought that the mean streets would chew these two young men up without even pausing to pick their teeth. However…you had to have backup.
“Tell me you have some combat classes?”
“Well, I’m building a weapon, and Joseph has his soccer ball. Ever been brained by one of those?”
“Football.”
The Spaniard corrected Kevin, and Zevara halted them.
“I’ll take you on my first errand. But not anywhere dangerous. I need people checking my work—that’s the only reason I’m willing to take you along. And the fact that you were dead.”
She poked Kevin lightly, still amazed he was real. Zevara glared at them.
“But if there’s trouble, you run and call the Watch, got it? I was run over yesterday as part of my investigation.”
“Dude, what? How are you alive? Healing potion?”
“Magic scroll, actually. Which is what I’m looking into now. There are these scrolls—”
She led them to the Antinium Hive entrance as she explained this incredible discovery and realized that her unlikely backup was, in fact, useful. Because all Kevin said was—
“Oh shit, they’ve got healing scrolls now? Faith classes are so fucking broken, Joseph.”
“Kevin, I saw the Prophet. I know.”
She squinted at them.
“Wait, so you know what this stuff is?”
“Different world. Wait, do you know that?”
She grunted as part of her head exploded and tried to act natural.
“Well, who doesn’t? I saw the, uh, Grand Rapids place where Erin was, too.”
I just didn’t think it was—could she talk to someone about this? Was there an inn support group? There had to be. Kevin nodded casually and nudged Joseph.
“Right. Told you she was as smart as Grimalkin, Joseph. Anyways, it’s a trope in video games. [Priests] are great healers. So there’s a black market for healing items, and the Antinium are, like, the poor guys getting stolen from, and you’re the undercover cop going rogue to solve the case?”
She eyed him.
“I feel like you’re making fun of me.”
“No, no, this is really cool! Please take us with you. I’ve been bored between crying my eyes out, and this is big. Where are we going?”
“For a meeting with Prognugator Pawn. The Watch talked to him, but I need more details. And…there’s an Antinium I need to interview again. A [Carpenter] who went Aberration.”
“Oh shit. Well, let’s go.”
 
——
 
Entering the Free Hive scared the hell out of Zevara, actually. She didn’t know how Lyonette did it so casually, but she was able to ask an Antinium entering the Hive to relay a message for her. Then she and Kevin waited as the rain poured down.
Joseph vanished for a bit; he kicked a ball, and a dozen children wanted to show him their moves. She had to admit, watching him scrimmage in the street, that he was pretty good with his feet.
Kevin seemed to be thinking hard, muttering under his breath as they waited. She hoped he was taking this seriously. When a Painted Worker came to lead them to a meeting with Pawn, they descended into the dark, claustrophobic tunnels.
It made Zevara shiver, and when they ran into the huge thoroughfare with countless Antinium moving in sync, she froze in terror.
She couldn’t help it. She had survived the 1st Antinium Wars. She might have panicked except that at that moment, Kevin decided to speak. His voice filled the huge cavernous space despite the rhythmic footsteps, the hypnotic identical patterns of sound—or perhaps that was because every Antinium froze when they heard a voice.
“We descended into the Hive searching for answers, the three of us. It was pitch dark down there, darker than the bottom of a toilet bowl at midnight when you’re trying to piss and not miss the rim. The Antinium, now, we needed answers from them. The easy way or the hard way. The only question is whether we’d understand the answers we got.”
“…Kevin, what are you doing?”
Zevara hissed at him, and Joseph punched his shoulders.
“Dude, is that the thing?”
“Yep. C’mon, Zevara, I have to do this. The Watch Captain gave me a look like she wanted to peel the skin off my bones, but then, I heard she’d killed a monster who did that. She was breathing smoke as she stomped past the Antinium. All of them, moving identically, in their Hive, and here we were, sticking out like ticks on a Unicorn’s ass.”
She tried to ignore him. Remember he had just died, Zevara, remember he had just died and don’t smack the back of his head. The worst part was that it was probably helping; the Antinium moved away from them, and she distinctly got the impression they were listening to Kevin.
Everyone liked Kevin. That was part of why she hadn’t turned him down; someone had to be charming. She didn’t do charming. And he certainly threw people off.
Even Pawn.
 
——
 
“You wouldn’t know it to look at him in his meek white robes, always smiling and carrying around that censer smelling like cinnamon and goodness, but this [Priest] was the most dangerous guy in the Hive. Maybe even he didn’t know it yet—but trust me, I’ve seen hard customers, and this guy could hold a door open to hell itself. Right now, he was playing nice, but once the Watch Captain put the questions to him, who knows how bad it could get?”
“Um. Hello, Kevin. Watch Captain, this is unexpected. Why is he talking like that?”
Pawn eyed Kevin, who it seemed had already re-introduced himself to the Antinium, and Zevara pushed Kevin aside.
“I’m following up on the Watch investigation, er, on my own time, Pawn. Can I ask you a few questions about those scrolls? And there was a Worker turned Aberration. Carpenter Laikos, I think? I’d like to talk to him.”
Pawn’s expression cleared, then he drooped.
“Ah, yes. Laikos. I have prayed for him, but my [Benediction of Hope] did not work. It does not always…I hope he will come around in the next few days. If not…”
Zevara’s stomach twisted up, and Kevin stopped his weird monologue to eye her. She nodded to Pawn.
“First things first. You’ve been told about the scrolls?”
He smiled at her.
“I was aware of the scrolls for a while, Watch Captain. Who do you think gave them to Workers and Crusaders? I did not know they were being stolen, though. It is most distressing.”
“So you know…can I ask how you discovered them?”
For answer, Pawn beckoned the Antinium over that Zevara had met at the inn. Holytext.
“It began when we were transcribing the Book of the Sky. Some pages, especially when written with…fervor, would transform. Become magical. When anyone read them, they would activate. Sometimes healing, but other times other effects. It depends on the intention.”
“Intention. So you can make more?”
“Oh, yes. Only a couple per day for most Antinium. Even Holytext does not have the ability to make more than three on a good day, and most are not as powerful as a strong healing potion. But I can make texts of appropriate strength to my Miracle.”
She wrote fast, taking notes.
“Which one would that be?”
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]. I rather think it was used on you recently, Watch Captain. You have traces of faith about you. I apologize. It is not like magic, but I can see things I had not before.”
“Dude, Pawn, you can make healing items, and you’re just giving them away to Workers?”
Joseph was aghast as he broke in. Pawn blinked at him.
“Why should I not, Joseph? Those are the ones who need healing the most. They could never afford healing potions—and with the shortage, it makes sense to give ordinary Workers and Soldiers what we make, does it not?”
“Well, yeah, but it’s worth a ton. Healing potions are so insanely expensive I can’t even get them for my football teams. Do you know what they’d pay for this?”
Pawn shook his head.
“I had not thought of it, Joseph, until I was told by Guardswoman Jerci of the issue. Now I see I have put Workers in trouble. These thefts…they were afraid to tell me of them, Watch Captain. Do you know how many thefts were reported?”
“I have several dozen cases I investigated personally.”
Pawn’s mandibles closed, and Zevara looked up.
“Not accurate?”
“After being informed of Guardswoman Jerci’s case, I asked my people to investigate the matter ourselves. We have counted 471 cases already.”
Her eyes widened.
“Impossible. I had numbers that were high, but—”
“It seems Antinium do not speak when they suffer. I had hoped the Watch was looking into the matter.”
“We have—and are. I know over sixty cases were solved by Guardsman Lens. He returned items back to the Workers who were stolen from.”
At this, Prognugator Pawn tilted his head.
“He…did? I have not heard of any items being returned. In fact, all the Antinium who were stolen from report a mixture of items being taken, not just healing scrolls.”
That wasn’t right. Here, Zevara floundered.
“No, I saw the report—”
“Perhaps there are even more Antinium who did not come forwards because the matter was resolved.”
Pawn’s voice was doubtful, and Zevara nodded. Kevin stopped doing his annoying monologue and jumped in.
“Question, guys. Why steal stuff that isn’t the scroll?”
That was easy. Zevara nodded at him.
“No one understands what the Antinium are doing, Kevin. Apparently, other objects can manifest this faith effect? A [Thief] would steal anything Antinium carried, assuming or hoping it was…infused with faith?”
The Prognugator nodded, clasping his hands together.
“This is so, though it is rather obvious. An object imbued with faith glows, is warmer than normal, or has other properties that make it easy to tell apart. I suppose those not used to us could be mistaken.”
Zevara thought back to Lady Cecille and nodded slowly. She seemed to be able to tell what the faith items were on sight. So unfamiliar [Thieves]…
“Do you have any objects I can see for reference, Pawn? Ones that aren’t one-use scrolls?”
He blinked.
“Of course. In fact, I have the strongest items with me. Master Pelt furnished me with this, but it is, um…slightly inconvenient. I had asked him to reforge items of religious value, you see, and he managed the task, but not as I had anticipated.”
He brought something out and handed it to Zevara—but opened his hand in the air. She reached out to catch it, but instead, stopped.
“Whoa. Dude.”
A beautiful, brass censer, little holes trailing incense lit by a glowing ember inside, was floating in the air. Pawn took hold of it, and it drifted after him, utterly weightless. He poked at it.
“He took the objects and rendered them into raw material which he used to smith these objects. He claims it is not very ‘pure’ metal and wished to destroy it, but I objected. This censer is the most holy object in the Hive.”
“I see. Wait…did you just say holy or…?”
Pawn smiled at Zevara. He flicked the censer through the air, and it left a trail of smoke which traced over Antinium, who gazed up and raised their hands as if the trail of incense was a blessing.
Which it turned out to be. Zevara felt an odd tingling, and Pawn explained.
“Those who breathe in the holy incense move faster, work harder, and so on. Depending on the incense. Cinnamon is strength. Mint is speed. It is a very confusing item, but one I think Erin would approve of. Faith takes many forms.”
“So you believe so hard in things that they become powerful? That’s not fair.”
Joseph muttered wistfully, and Pawn quirked an antenna at him.
“Coach Joseph, you are the world’s most famous [Football Coach] because people believe in you. Wealth and fame because of belief. Is what we do so different?”
“I can’t put my hands on someone and heal them, so yeah.”
“Hmm. A fair point. But [Mages] can blow things up with a word.”
“Also fair. Got me there.”
Pawn put out his hand, and Joseph shook it. They focused back on Zevara, and she exhaled.
“Well, no regular Worker has something that powerful, Pawn. This is clearly the work of individuals who want your items. Now that the Antinium have something of value, a black market has sprung up. May I ask what you intend to do?”
He nodded.
“Naturally, I consulted with the Free Queen on the matter, and she agreed: we shall sell the items, of course. At reasonable—very high—market values. It will allow us to give our Antinium more money. That will cut down on this…illicit selling. I will still give the healing items to Antinium, to Liscor’s army, and even the Watch. And the inn. Yes, Lyonette will like that. But I will not sell them to our enemies like damned Hectval or anyone else.”
She blinked.
“That’s generous of you.”
“All those who are our friends should be healed.”
“And your enemies, Pawn?”
Kevin asked, and the Worker smiled, but not in a nice way.
“They may eat cake laced with laxatives. Or burn.”
For some reason, Kevin and Joseph shuddered at what Zevara took to be a mild threat. And she nodded at Pawn, but bit her tongue.
“I think Watch Commander Venim will be delighted by your proposal, Pawn, as will the Council. May I speak to Carpenter Laikos?”
“Of course—he is in a holding area for his and our safety. One moment while I find out where.”
Pawn walked away, and Kevin leaned over with Joseph.
“What’s with the grimace, Captain Z?”
“Don’t call me that. It’s nothing. Pawn’s doing the right, sensible thing. I was just thinking…it’s not going to cut down on the black market.”
“Why not? He sells it to our allies, everyone lines up to buy it, problem solved.”
Joseph didn’t get it, but Zevara shook her head, and so did Kevin. She eyed him, and he explained.
“Think on it, Joseph. It’s like decriminalizing weed. People still go to their local dealers instead of a dispensary. Why’s that?”
“Kevin…I lived in Spain. We don’t have legal weed, only seeds and stuff. I don’t know why your stupid American stuff happens.”
“Oh. Right. If Pawn has super high prices on the scrolls, sure, people will buy them. But a lot will want to get them cheaper. And who’s got scrolls?”
Joseph cast around.
“His Workers. But they won’t sell them, right? They’re Antinium.”
Zevara thought of Noiraid.
“Some will. Antinium are developing vices and wants. If one sells a scroll for a fraction of its value, they get a lot of gold in their pockets. Less than it’s worth, but far more than, what, a few coppers a week?”
“Ah.”
Joseph let out a breath of pure understanding, and the two Humans and Drake regarded each other, each one creatures of vice. But Pawn was a largely incorruptible Antinium of faith. Joseph bounced his ball on one foot.
“Should we tell him?”
“…I think it wouldn’t help. He’s doing what I’d do. There will always be lawbreakers. Just fewer. My main concern is the thefts themselves. He said hundreds of Antinium—and not one remembers Senior Guardsman Lens?”
“I smell a rat. Think your Senior Guardsman’s corrupt?”
Zevara gave Kevin an outraged eye, and he raised his hand defensively.
“You’ve gotta consider it, Captain Zevara. It’s the first thing that happens in cases like this. Police on the take, corrupt officials, dark nights, smoking hot dames coming into your office…”
“This isn’t whatever you’re referencing.”
“Aw, so no hot women?”
Zevara tightened her lips into a grim smile.
“I’ll introduce you to Noiraid. She’s smoking.”
“Sweet. Wait, fuck, she’s an Antinium, isn’t she? Does she look like Bird?”
“Dude, didn’t you date Ceria? Because I’ll hit you with my football no matter what you say.”
 
——
 
Zevara was spared from watching Joseph bouncing his football off the back of Kevin’s head when Pawn returned and led her to Laikos. The Antinium was chained up in a dirt room with a door on it, barely more than a hole in the ground. But it had a door—which was rare in the Hive.
He didn’t move as Zevara halted and saw him curled up, wrapped in chains. She felt bad, and the two Earthers stopped fighting.
“He will not eat. We have prayed for him, and there is a way back from being Aberration—but he must find it. I do not understand what is wrong.”
Pawn confessed to Zevara, antennae drooping.
“Someone stole his doll.”
“What? I’ll buy him a new one.”
Joseph laughed incredulously and stopped when Zevara gazed at him with Pawn.
“It was all he had. I think—he’s upset. No, outraged.”
That was the right word for it. It wasn’t just anger. It was that feeling of someone who had been robbed. Who saw an injustice done…and had no faith in fairness being rendered for them.
She hoped she could restore some of it.
“Carpenter Laikos, do you remember me?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. This one remembers.”
His voice was dull. Not fluttering with fury. Zevara knelt down in the open doorway.
“I’m still investigating your case.”
“The Watch officers said this one’s doll was lost.”
“…Maybe it is, Laikos. I can’t work miracles—”
Zevara glanced at Kevin.
“—but I’ll try. Don’t you want another doll?”
The Worker didn’t move.
“No. I do not want hers. I want mine. It is not fair. It is…nOT fAIr.”
Kevin stepped back as Laikos’ voice changed, and he surged against the chains. Pawn stepped forwards.
“Laikos, Laikos, be calm. You must be calm. Who bought you a doll? Bird? Zimrah? Chesacre, Thaina?”
Pawn turned to Zevara, and she realized he didn’t know who Noiraid was. She doubted the Worker was keen on introducing herself. Zevara cleared her throat.
“Laikos, I need to know anything more you remember. I know the Human woman stole from you. The one with the beautiful scarf.”
Under Pawn’s touch, Laikos calmed down a bit. His voice was dull.
“The scarf of rosewood patterning. Black. Red. Yes. Not beautiful. This Worker has seen beauty. Not beauty.”
She frowned. She supposed it was a matter of opinion; Cecille’s scarf was beautiful to her, and she didn’t go in for fabrics.
“Did anyone else approach you that day, Laikos? Or stare at you? Did, perhaps, a [Merchant] stop you?”
He hadn’t mentioned it, but the [Carpenter] went still.
“Merchant Yerham inquired as to the carpentry techniques employed by this one. Correct. He inspected my…possession…”
“He didn’t try to buy it?”
“No.”
“Who else spoke to you, Laikos? Most people don’t.”
“…A Drake [Carpenter] who spat and borrowed nails. Guildmaster Eitgret addressed us to inform us of our disassembly job. Two Drakes who inquired about this one’s occupation.”
Two Drakes? Zevara nodded at Kevin.
“Moass and Hissl?”
“This one does not know their names.”
“Uh, green scales and blue?”
“Yes. Then the thief came back. And my…my…it was stolen.”
Again, the three suspects were there. Pawn regarded Zevara as Laikos grew agitated again.
“Do you have what you need, Watch Captain?”
She closed up her notepad.
“I think so. I think I need to investigate these two agents of Pallass. I know Yerham…but they’ve beaten my truth stones, and without one of them, we can’t get them on anything!”
That was her major concern. She pounded one knee, and Kevin raised a hand.
“Kevin, I swear, if this is some stupid idea…”
“No, c’mon, Zevara. Well, it’s sort of from movies—but mysteries. Joseph, back me up. If we can’t get these guys in a lie, can we trap them somehow? That’s how it always works in a mystery.”
Joseph scratched his head.
“I haven’t read Sherlock Holmes, sorry.”
Kevin scoffed.
“Sherlock Holmes. There are plenty of other mysteries!”
“Like Clue?”
“No, what about Detective Conan? You know that one? It’s this manga—”
“More Japanese stuff? C’mon…you and Leon are terrible. And we got rid of him.”
“Dude, don’t compare me to Leon.”
“You’re right, I’m sorry.”
It was hard to ignore the banter in the background—she just had to pretend she had a less combat-effective Relc and Klbkch backing her up. Zevara swung back to Pawn.
“Sorry about this.”
He gave her a rather severe glare.
“If you would mind not chatting so casually around one of my Workers having a crisis?”
Kevin and Joseph shut up, and Zevara rose.
“I’m still investigating things, Laikos. I promise you. In fact…”
She hated to admit it, but Kevin had given her an idea. A rather underhanded idea, but the [Streetwise Guardswoman] thought it was her only chance. Pawn tilted his antennae upwards as she took him aside.
“Pawn. Would you agree to making a slight change to how you’re handling this matter?”
“Of course, Watch Captain. Anything to help with an official Watch investigation.”
“I, er, uh, yes.”
She stumbled over her words so much that Kevin grinned and began to monologue.
“It took a crooked mind to solve a crooked case. No more staying on the straight and narrow. The law was only as good as the baton in my hand, and I was going to crack my way straight into the heart of this case like an unboiled egg…”
“I’ll be praying for you, Watch Captain.”
Pawn muttered as he clasped two of his four hands together. Zevara just sighed.
 
——
 
Two monologues later, Kevin, Joseph, and Zevara were at the inn again. They’d taken Zevara’s bicycle—Kevin wanted to show her all the features and get her to admit she liked it.
“I’m returning it to Solar Cycles now you’re alive. It’s a bribe, and it’s too big to fit in the safe.”
“Aw, come on, it’s great. Check on how well enchanted it is!”
“If it’s so enchanted, why did you keep running over my tail? Three for Pallass.”
She nodded to Liska, and the Gnoll obligingly let them through. She waved away Zevara’s coins.
“Joseph and Kevin can take whoever they want with them free of charge. And just so you know, Watch Captain…”
She stopped Zevara, and the Drake turned to her, recalling the other day. She expected an apology. Instead, Liska glowered at her.
“It’s not my job to stop thieves at the door! So a little less attitude next time, huh? And if you don’t like that, you can talk to the [Forcewall]. The only thing The Wandering Inn needs to guard is itself.”
Indeed, she’d moved her couch and working space so that people would come into the waiting chamber and exit the door after filing into lines for their destination—but the door to the inn itself and Liska were blocked off. By glowing walls of shimmering air of all things.
[Forcewalls]? Zevara was astonished anyone was paying for the spells until she realized it was just Liska’s powers. The Gnoll put her feet up on the couch.
“All aboard for Pallass? Remember your papers!”
Zevara was in the checkpoint on Pallass’ side, watching people file into three different rooms for processing, when she felt at her sides.
“Oh, shit on my tail—I forgot! Er—hello. Watch Captain—Senior Guardswoman Zevara, on investigation?”
She did her best, but the bored Garuda who opened a sliding panel gave her a long, long look.
“Liscor’s Watch?”
“Yes, I have a matter I’m looking into.”
“If you don’t have a Grade 5 Passport or higher, or special clearance papers, and you’re not on the list, I can’t let you through. We didn’t get anything from Watch Commander Venim about an investigation.”
Shit. Zevara began sweating and cursing. Any papers to go to Pallass would go through Venim for a cursory inspection!
“I—ah, forgot to file them. We’d like to ask questions of the Watch House or possibly High Command in Pallass?”
“You want to talk to High Command?”
The [Guard] looked her up and down, and she muttered.
“Rather—about the Eyes of Pallass?”
The Garuda’s brows rose higher, and she guessed how stupid a question that was. If only Chaldion were here—! Well, she’d seen him around the inn, but he wasn’t in any condition to do anything. The [Guard] sighed.
“Look, Senior Guardswoman, I can’t let you in. But tell you what, I’ll query the Watch Commander right now. It’ll take a few minutes.”
No! Nonono! Venim would flip his desk. But how did she refuse without appearing more suspicious? Zevara was sweating bullets when someone came to her rescue.
“Hey, wassup? Can you make an exception for us, Guardsman? Me and my friends are just visiting Pallass.”
The Garuda nearly left his seat as someone walked in behind her.
“No crossing the yellow line before we say t—oh, Coach Joseph!”
He recognized the young man instantly and relaxed. Joseph threw up a casual peace sign.
“This is Senior Guardswoman Zevara. She’s with me. C’mon, can’t you let her through?”
“I don’t know…you’re on the list, Joseph, of course, but—”
“Just write us in. This is Randy. He’s also sort of a football expert. The Senior Guardswoman is actually helping me out on some stuff.”
Joseph lied with a smile, and the Garuda shot Zevara a more impressed eye. Zevara couldn’t believe it! He relaxed, clacked his beak, then sighed.
“Oh—fine. Let me get this down. Zevara and ‘Randy’? Dead gods, what a name.”
“Dude, you’re telling me.”
Kevin flashed him a grin. The Garuda chuckled and then nodded.
“Alright, go on through. And, uh, Joseph. Any idea who’s winning the big game between Liscor and Pallass? We have to win this time, right?”
He sounded wistful, and Joseph flashed him the thumbs up.
“Don’t tell any Liscorians, but I think this might be the one.”
The Garuda grinned, and Zevara gave Joseph a look of mild awe. He put his hands in his pockets, embarrassed.
“What? They love their football here. I respect that. Actually, I need to disguise myself. Kevin’s got a Skill, but—”
He touched a ring on his finger, and she jumped as he transformed into a Dullahan in armor.
“You have a disguise?”
Joseph winked at her.
“Yep. Too many people want autographs or to try out for me. But I can probably get you talking with anyone who’s not actually a [Senator]. C’mon, I know most of the city.”
Kevin nudged Zevara.
“Our man on the inside was Joseph. Not just a pretty face and a good right foot. You needed someone who could grease the wheels of a city like this and not come away stained black. So far, he was on the up and up, but I had my eye on him. Still, if he could get us one step closer to finding the truth, we’d do what it took…”
 
——
 
It turned out the power of Joseph’s fame was a door-opener in ways Zevara’s badge was not. The Watch House on the 8th Floor barely paid attention to the badge when they realized she was Liscor’s Watch.
“Listen, Senior Guardswoman, it’s usually a matter for the Watch Captains to handle between cities. You can’t just come in and demand—Joseph?”
Cue him speeding past the Desk Sergeant, all the way into the office of a Watch Captain Qissa. She was made of sterner stuff than her people and gave Zevara a familiar look.
“Watch Captain. I wondered why a ‘Senior Guardswoman’ was here. Why didn’t Venim send a message? Unless…it’s urgent. Joseph, is this something I need to consult Watch Captain Kel over?”
She had a wary expression on her face, as one did around Earthers or the inn, but Joseph just gave her a relaxed smile.
“We’re just asking about a Watch matter, Qissa. Zevara’s doing it privately.”
“Uh huh. Privately.”
Qissa’s tone was laced with suspicions until Zevara stepped forward to the table.
“It’s a sensitive matter, Watch Captain. I’d like to speak to and know the particulars of two of your agents who came into Liscor. They’re not on any of our lists…or yours. I believe they’re entangled in a crime occurring in Liscor.”
Qissa’s skepticism turned into a huge grimace. She sat back, steeping her claws.
“Ah, them. That changes things. I don’t know anything.”
Zevara exchanged a glance with Kevin and Joseph.
“Nothing? No lists or…?”
“We don’t write it down, and the paperwork around them tends to vanish. Highly annoying. It’s the kind of thing that happens with that kind of agent. I imagine Venim thought he’d seen the last of them in Pallass…listen, I can’t help you. I can tell you who to contact. They have…well, not a headquarters, but a place where outsiders can ask questions. But I warn you—they don’t give out answers.”
She scribbled on a piece of paper and handed them an address. Then asked Joseph about the game. Her note took them to the 7th Floor and what seemed to be a rather corporate office. There was a Drake [Receptionist] at the desk, cool air blowing from enchantment spells inside, and big, glass windows and outdoor seats on a balcony.
If Zevara needed more clues to guess this is where the Eyes of Pallass hung out and operated from, the too-sharp way the Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda checked her over was another.
There was a bit too much magic in here, a bit too much opulence for the dreary lives of office workers. Kevin seemed delighted by all the ‘spy stuff’; Joseph just kept frowning around.
“I swear I know half these guys. Some of them hang out with Troydel. Actually, he swears he’s slept with that Drake.”
A female Drake glanced up from a water fountain and blinked at him. She must have had very good hearing, because she called out.
“Coach Joseph and…Watch Captain Zevara. Whatever Probationary Engineer Troydel has told you, I hope you disregard it.”
She frowned at Kevin, which impressed Zevara, because it meant Kevin’s Skill was still working. She approached as the male [Receptionist] slipped from behind the counter.
“How can I help you today, Watch Captain?”
Well, it felt like an interview already. Zevara got the same vibes from this as her meeting with Robb, but she folded her arms.
“I’m just here to follow-up on a case of mine. It involves two of your people. They’re not prime suspects, but I need to talk to them and ask some questions.”
“Pointed questions?”
The Gnoll raised his brows, and Zevara glanced at him.
“Only if I thought they were necessary. Is there a problem?”
“There are individuals who are above your jurisdiction, Watch Captain. This isn’t your city.”
“But Pallass would have to be cooperative, right? Because everyone’s interested in the law being upheld.”
Joseph jumped in, and the two agents hesitated, clearly made uncomfortable by him. Zevara suspected he was a very important person in their books, and the female Drake coughed.
“…Of course. I’m Agent Zemize. Part of the organization that Watch Captain Zevara appears to be interested in. Who, exactly, got into trouble in Liscor? We just got some very…interesting reports from there.”
So they didn’t know? Actually, that suggested she’d just heard about the scrolls. Zevara knew that secretive groups might not share information with each other, but she couldn’t resist tweaking the Drake’s tail.
“Only today? Your people have been there for weeks or a month, I’d guess.”
Zemize colored slightly, and the [Receptionist] jumped in with a smile.
“Some things get passed up the chain of command too fast, Watch Captain.”
“Even the biggest news.”
Zemize muttered, and Zevara was aware the agents loitering around their lobby having drinks or chatting had doubled in number. Well, well, well. It appeared a lot of them were interested in the scrolls.
Kevin was smiling broadly, and he interjected in what he probably thought as a hard-bitten tone of a serious fellow. In reality, it had all the seriousness of a duck.
“Seems to me the right hand doesn’t know who the left hand is yanking off in Liscor. Shame. This would have never happened with Chaldion.”
Everyone turned to eye him with expressions of such disgust that Kevin hesitated. However, Zemize jerked her head in a grudging nod after a moment.
“It’s…more chaotic, certainly. Different focuses with all the crises of late. So the Antinium are selling healing items? That’ll make High Command happy. No one wants to hop in bed with the Antinium.”
She grimaced, and Zevara folded her arms.
“It seems to me that the Walled City’s position on Antinium is shooting themselves in the tail. But I’m just a lowly Watch Captain; it’s not like you’re months behind the north.”
That soured everyone’s drinks—until she added the second line.
“—Of course, it might be you were always on top of things. Two of your people have been involved in Liscorian affairs, and I’m sure you could ask them about all they know and failed to share.”
That seemed to work. Zemize glanced at the [Receptionist], who raised his brows politely.
“I can’t guarantee you’ll get a meeting, but I can, at least, search up these agents. Who would be…?”
They only had one card to play, which were their names, so Zevara nodded.
“Agents Hissl and Moass. I’d like to know exactly what they’re doing and their ranks and purpose as well as a meeting, if I may.”
Zemize laughed out loud, then covered it with a clawed hand.
“Moass?”
“I know, right? Is that, like, a naming convention in Pallass? Noass’ cousin?”
Joseph grinned at her, and she was about to respond when she hesitated and closed her mouth. Zevara saw the [Receptionist]’s eyes flicker, and he frowned. Ever so slightly. But then he was nodding to her.
“Ah, those two. I’m afraid they’re definitely not available at this moment, Watch Captain. If they’ve compromised your time, I apologize. I’ll put in a note that you wish to speak to them, but revealing details of any members of our group is highly prohibited.”
“Of course I knew that.”
She tried to keep her face straight, but then changed her mind and added a grimace. Zevara cast around, as if lost.
“But if I could just speak to your superior or—someone? They have too many clearances for me to stop them, and I can’t trace their passage—”
The [Receptionist] trotted over to the counter and jotted down a few lines.
“We’ll try to make arrangements, but as I said, they’re not here. I trust they didn’t interfere with your job in any way?”
“Of course not. They only talked to Venim. I happened to get their names, that’s all.”
“I see.”
Zemize put in mildly.
“We have to do this kind of thing, Watch Captain. We’ll get back to you as soon as we can, but as you observed, there’s all kinds of news. No hand knows what the other’s doing.”
Her lips quirked, but her eyes lingered on the Watch Captain.
“Out of curiosity, I suppose that outside of The Wandering Inn, the foremost Antinium expert in the city would be Guardsman Relc, wouldn’t it? But he’s seeing the Archmage of Izril…”
She grimaced, and Zevara smiled at her, making a show of folding up her own notepad.
“That’s him, and he’s filling time as acting Watch Captain. If you were interested in Antinium knowledge, you might want to talk to them yourself. Although you might want to be careful. The wrong questions turn some into Aberrations.”
Zemize shifted slightly.
“I’d heard that. Well—I suppose we’ll have to let our people handle things. Is there anything else, Watch Captain?”
“No, thank you. You know where to find me if Hissl or Moass have time…thank you.”
Zevara spun on her heels and walked out the door. She was hoping like hell neither Joseph nor Kevin said anything or gave it away, but Joseph just waved at Zemize.
“Don’t let Troydel drive you crazy, Zemize! Or take you to dinner, because he definitely thinks that’s how he’s going to score a goal.”
She shuddered faintly as the doors swung shut behind them.
 
——
 
Only after they were in The Wandering Inn did Zevara let Joseph speak. He’d tried to, twice, but she’d been almost positive someone was following them.
Liska turned out to be as good as a full Pallassian checkpoint though. She refused to let her [Forcewalls] open for anyone but Kevin, Zevara, and Joseph.
“No entry today! Inn’s off-limits unless I know you, and I have a really bad memory.”
Once they were inside, Zevara stepped into Kevin’s room upstairs, and then Joseph hissed at her.
“Okay, what was that about? Even I could tell something was off!”
Kevin gave Zevara a significant gaze.
“I think they were bluffing, don’t you, Zevara? I’m pretty good at telling when people are using a poker face—I have to sell tons of stuff to monarchs, and not all of them like the price tag. They do that ‘too-casual’ thing.”
She nodded, heart beating fast.
“Agents Moass and Hissl aren’t Eyes of Pallass. Zemize didn’t recognize their names. You’d think that even if they were pseudonyms, she’d know better than to laugh at them, right?”
“It could have been a bluff.”
Joseph countered, but Zevara shook her head.
“No, they were caught off-guard by the scrolls. You heard them fishing about Relc. I bet that it’s a sloppy oversight without Chaldion; Walled Cities are peculiar, you two. They have flaws.”
“No kidding?”
Neither Human seemed surprised, and she glowered defensively.
“They can be efficient! But when it comes to the Antinium, they’ve always stayed away. I think they treated the Free Antinium like the other Hives, who can’t be negotiated with or infiltrated outside of the Queens. The fact that the Eyes didn’t know about the scrolls suggests they had no real agents looking into the Free Antinium. Probably the inn, but Lyonette didn’t know about the scrolls either until Holytext came by the other day.”
Kevin snapped his fingers.
“And they can’t get into the inn because of Vaulont and the Thronebearers. But wait—then who are those two Drakes?”
He threw up his hands, and Zevara murmured.
“Whomever they are, they have top-level security clearances. But they were never the main suspects in our investigation. Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille are. Hmm. We’re getting so close, I can feel it, you two. I think it’s time to shake the nest.”
She had almost all the pieces, she could tell. She just had to rattle them around into one cohesive whole and it’d make sense. She knew the crime, she knew the victims, she knew the motivations; this wasn’t some impossible crime.
The motivations were simple and straightforward…at least, she thought. The oddity was in the act of the theft itself and, in some cases, the suspects.
“Okay, so we have that Lady Reinhart and the [Merchant]. How do we rattle them? Are they connected?”
Zevara put her head in her hands. She was thinking hard. It felt like every event that had happened to her these last few days was connected. She narrowed her eyes.
“Think. Think…we can get Pawn to announce his part of the plan. But unless we know who they are and what they want, we’re only going to get lies. I think—”
Her head rose, and she stared at Kevin. He fidgeted.
“What, Captain Z? Too much noir commentary? I can shut up.”
It wasn’t that…something about him was throwing her brain into disarray, and not just that he was alive again. Kevin.
Wait a second…her eyes narrowed, and she put another piece together. Then she sat bolt upright.
“I think I know who Merchant Yerham is. All I need is to confirm something at the Merchant’s Guild! I can’t do it myself—”
“Why not me? I had an account there. Damn. Now I’m Randy, I have to get my helper to do it.”
Kevin raised a hand and cursed, and Joseph lifted his.
“I have an account with them. I can ask.”
“You do that. I don’t have his name, but…you know what, there’s an even better thing we can do. Kevin, you’re going to help me lay some bait. Pawn will announce his change today. We have to spring a trap.”
His eyes widened as Zevara jumped up. Then they narrowed.
“Wait, me? Are they Roshal?”
“No—but they’re also very interested in you, Kevin. For different reasons, I think. It won’t put you in danger.”
She assured him, and he grinned when she told him what she needed.
“Oh man, that? That’s easy. I can make it even better. Give me thirty minutes to get to my shop in Esthelm. Actually, I might have the parts in my room. But wait, Zevara—”
He stopped her seriously, and she turned.
“What?”
“If this is the final act, you’d better have Relc or someone backing you up. And don’t forget—”
Kevin gave her a serious gaze.
“You’ve got to be ready to explain the entire crime afterwards. We could knock Venim out and put a speaking stone in his mouth if we want to pretend he was the one who figured everything out.”
She pointed a finger at him.
“I have no idea what you’re talking about. I’m glad you’re back, you idiot.”
Then she dashed out of the room as Kevin smiled.
“Yeah.”
He slapped his cheeks, then, and regarded Joseph.
“Ow. Dude, this is going to be so awesome. We’re having an Erin adventure!”
“I hope no one shoots me.”
“Hm. Good point. Let me get a chestplate on. It’s happened twice to Earthers so far.”
 
——
 
Forty minutes later, a rather bulky young man wearing a chainmail vest came riding into the Merchant’s Guild at the same time as Football Coach Joseph walked in to withdraw some money from his account.
“Coach Joseph! How can we help you today?”
He was a big shot, so someone was on him like Apista on dreamleaf. Joseph bantered with the receptionist about the game and made small talk as the other Human man shouted loudly.
“Hey, is there a, uh, ‘Kevin Hall’ of Solar Cycles here?”
The Merchant’s Guild went quiet. [Merchants] turned, annoyed by the voice, and then recognized the name and sombered. One of the [Receptionists] hurried over.
“Young man, lower your voice! What are you wearing? This is a respectable establishment!”
He scolded the unrepentant fellow, who swept his black hair back.
“Sorry, guv’nor. I’m a City Runner with a priority delivery for Kevin of Solar Cycles. Name’s Randy the Roadmaster. I heard he was about here? It’s urgent. Would have been a Courier job, but I know Kev, and he likes me.”
The [Receptionist] hesitated. He was a Gnoll who’d worked in Liscor before the Crazy Human had gotten here, and he was well familiar with the notables in the city. Including Solar Cycles.
“I, uh—I don’t know what to tell you, Runner Randy, but if you’re talking about the owner of Solar Cycles, he passed away last winter.”
“What? No? Kevin? I loved him! And this is specially for him—he ordered it, and as soon as we made it…what am I gonna do? Kevin! My man!”
Randy clutched at his chest. He staggered and nearly knocked over the object he’d put down. The [Receptionist] eyed it.
“What is…that?”
The City Runner yanked the cloth covering a huge metallic contraption full of gears and cylindrical rods. He pointed at it as the [Merchants] turned.
“This? It’s a Ford W4-G50 Engine. ‘Least, that’s what I think it’s called. Made of carbon-alloy steel and engineered to hell and back. Fraerling-tech, straight from…well, I can’t say. It’s for his shop! His shop is around at least, right?”
The [Receptionist] gave the strange object a wide-eyed stare.
“An engine…?”
“Yeah. He says it’ll make bicycles look like pushcarts. Said. Fuck, man. He built my bike for me! Look!”
Kevin pointed at his bicycle, which was highly-customized.
“It’s one of the new ones. Folds up, full shock suspension, triple gear system—how’d it happen? Who did this?”
He pounded one fist into his hand, and the [Receptionist] held out a placating hand.
“I’m, ah, not sure. It was rather shocking. The entire Solstice—”
“Is there someone I can talk to? I need to talk to someone. Wait—the inn. Is the inn okay? You’ve got to tell me what’s going on!”
Randy grabbed the [Receptionist]’s arm, and the man was both sympathetic and realized there was an opportunity here. The Gnoll patted the Runner’s arm and eyed the [Guildmaster], who’d come out himself; he got the nod and gestured.
“I have some refreshments. Please, sit, Runner Randy, and I’ll get you all the information we can. You appear exhausted.”
Wet, certainly. Randy wobbled after him, then turned.
“My bike—”
“We’ll put it away for you, sir!”
Someone jumped up, and Randy nodded. He followed the [Receptionist] into a side-room, and all the [Merchants] crowded around the engine at once. They waited until the door was closed before breaking into a babble.
“Someone get me a Magic Picture on this, now. I need a [Message] as well!”
“Kevin, he said? That inventor in Esthelm? Damn shame, I liked him…”
“What is this contraption? Do you think we could buy it, or—? Hey, hands off! You don’t know what it does!”
Someone slapped the hands of a [Trader] reaching for it, and there was an argument. Behind them, some of the hired help, mostly [Bodyguards] or regular [Guards] who assisted [Merchants] with their work, had a discussion of their own. Gold was gold, and knowledge was also gold—
A pair of men grabbed the Runner’s bicycle and wheeled it towards the back doors, not the front. Presumably to park it somewhere discreetly in the back rooms, or outside where it could be watched but not interfere with the august…augustness of the Merchant’s Guild.
That was the last anyone in the Merchant’s Guild thought about the bicycle, including Randy, but when the two men had exited the Merchant’s Guild, they kept going. Casually, they walked it down the street, checking to see if anyone had noticed them—and then halted in the first alleyway they came to. They did not have to wait long.
Three more men came striding out the Merchant’s Guild back entrance. One of them wore more impressive clothes than his bodyguards.
Merchant Yerham. He halted as his eyes fell on the bicycle.
“There’s no hope of getting at the engine. But this is almost as good. I want two, two of you to take it to Invrisil this moment. Then come back with everyone you can get. I don’t care how, just get them. Hire [Mercenaries] if you have to.”
“You sure, sir? The Watch was asking about you yesterday—”
Yerham ignored the question from one of the men.
“If it’s half of what that City Runner said, we need it! We—”
There was a noise at the end of the alleyway. The men froze and moved to block the bicycle. Yerham spun as someone came strolling out from where they’d been loitering, spinning a baton.
“Merchant Yerham. What excellent timing! I was just searching for you. I had a few more questions, if you don’t mind.”
Watch Captain Zevara was smiling. Smiling in that not-so-nice way that made Yerham start sweating. The men behind him tensed—then froze up as someone else stepped forwards.
“Oh, hey, it’s Yerham! Nice to see you again! And Captain Zevara, I thought you were on break! I guess that’s your off-duty uniform?”
Sergeant Relc and a squad of [Guards] sauntered into view from the other side of the alleyway. Relc was beaming way too hard with all his teeth, and Guardswoman Jerci was trying not to grin too.
Merchant Yerham breathed faintly.
“Watch Captain, this is rather inopportune—”
“Oh, I imagine it would be, Merchant Yerham. Being caught in the middle of a theft is never pleasant. But then—you have experience with that, don’t you?”
His face went paler, and sweat began to bead on his upper lip, but he blustered as the rain wet his hair.
“I do beg your pardon! That is an outrageous thing to say to me, a respected [Merchant]! If you’re referring to this bicycle, I was simply admiring the craftsmanship of it! I hardly intended to steal it.”
He stood aside with the men as if there were nothing wrong with him having someone else’s bicycle in the middle of an alleyway. Zevara just smirked.
“I have no doubt you’d never lay a finger on it, Master Yerham. But somehow, magically, I do think it would have vanished from poor Runner Randy’s ownership. Then moved quite far from Liscor. All the way to, perhaps, the House of El?”
One of Yerham’s men bit back a curse, and Zevara folded her arms. The [Merchant] was still trying to bluster.
“Th-that’s preposterous! What evidence do you have to—oh.”
The ‘oh’ was because two young men stepped out from the alleyway. Joseph and Kevin were grinning. Kevin, who’d been playing Runner Randy, had a rather appalled [Guildmaster] in tow, and Zevara’s eyes gleamed.
“Merchant Yerham. What is this?”
“Yeah, what is this, Captain Zevara? I knew he was guilty of something, but when you said he was going to commit a crime, I had to see this.”
This was the thing Kevin had warned Zevara about. She couldn’t help but smile as she laid out her reasoning for all present.
“I’m aware I need evidence. Well, I have two pieces, Sergeant Relc. The first is that if we search Yerham and his men’s belongings, we should find a signet ring of the House of El. Something that any [Lord], like Xitegen Terland, would recognize. You see, all these men are working for the El Family under Merchant Yerham. He’s an agent of the family; it was one of his people we were chasing two days ago.”
Relc’s eyes brightened.
“Wait, it was? But he stole a piece of a bicycle…oh.”
He glanced at Yerham, and Zevara nodded.
“Straight outside the Merchant’s Guild, where anyone who’s not known to the guild would have been recognized. I thought that was odd. In hindsight, perhaps the [Guildmaster] might have realized that too, but I doubt Yerham did more than send one of his bodyguard out to perform the theft. If we hadn’t been there, it would have gone unreported except as a random theft.”
She gave the [Guildmaster] a pointed gaze, and the Drake flushed.
“But that’s not proof, Watch Captain! I do admit, when Coach Joseph inquired, there was one less man in Yerham’s company after the—incident. But it’s not illegal to work for one of the Five Families.”
Zevara shook her head.
“No, but I think we’d have Yerham dead to rights—if we asked the right truth spells. Remember, Relc? Yerham was so nervous, but when we asked about the Antinium, he relaxed. He thought we’d caught onto his theft that was going on that instant!”
Relc made an ‘oh’ as he smacked one fist into his palm.
“That bastard! He got us! Well, now I’ve got a truth stone I’ll shove right up his…”
“There’s no need for that, Guardsman!”
Yerham raised his hands, sighing. He scrubbed at his face.
“I’m happy to pay any fine for my indiscretions you may find via truth stone. I presume it comes with some jail time?”
“And penalties in the Merchant’s Guild!”
The [Guildmaster] barked, red-faced. However, Zevara noticed Jerci’s frown and nodded. The Watch had picked up on things too.
“You’re too keen to give up, Master Yerham. My guess is that you were sent to Liscor to steal the latest technologies for the House of El. Steal or buy—you’re probably actually fairly upstanding about it. I know you went to Spinner Deskie to see if you could get that technology or more from the Gnolls.”
He gave her a rueful look.
“It’s usually easier to be honest, Watch Captain. Yes, aside from Solar Cycles, who can’t be reached, we’ve been completely above-board! I imagine an, ah, advocate from the House of El will reach out shortly, if I can be allowed to send a [Message] through the Mage’s Guild?”
Just like his man, the El Family had powerful connections, and what did Zevara have on him? Organizing a few thefts? In Celum, Xitegen might let him off with no more than a slap on the wrist; the Five Families protected their own.
Ordinarily, Zevara would be hopping mad despite figuring out his game, but she still wore that sardonic smile. Yerham’s own faltered as she stepped closer.
“I’ll let Sergeant Relc handle your charges, Merchant Yerham. I imagine it might only be a fine without even being banned from Liscor. There’s just one little wrinkle that might make Lord Deilan El less than happy with you.”
His eyes flickered.
“Confiscation of our goods? Anything stolen, we of course will return, but I didn’t realize we lost our possessions. That seems inappropriate, Watch Captain.”
She prowled around him.
“Now, why would you jump to that, Merchant Yerham? Unless there was something you had—legally—that was even more valuable than stolen bicycle parts? Like, say, scrolls purchased from Antinium and the Brothers?”
The man stiffened, but then forced himself to relax as the [Guildmaster] regarded Kevin and Joseph, utterly confused.
“What scrolls?”
“Purely legal purchases, Watch Captain.”
She yanked his bag of holding off his belt and pulled out a scroll. Zevara smiled evilly.
“Yes, I thought you’d argue that. And you are correct! Under the law, the Watch does not confiscate items unless they were used in the pursuit of a crime or could be used to harm others.”
“Or they’re contraband or we’re exiling you or something real serious. Article 4, code…uh, well damn, I forget.”
Relc chipped in happily. Zevara nodded. She fished out more scrolls and found the man had dozens. He stared at her, frowning. Zevara counted, then smiled.
“We’ll see if you have more in your chests or on your people. But…this should do it.”
She fished in her bag of holding and pulled out gold coins. One for each scroll—she tossed them into Yerham’s bag of holding.
“W-what are you doing, Watch Captain? Are you buying those off me? I regret to say, you couldn’t afford the cost of them.”
He tried to laugh, and she gave him an innocent gaze.
“Me? Oh, no. I’m simply fulfilling my duties. You see, there’s been a recall issued.”
“A what?”
The last of his confidence drained away as Zevara chuckled.
“Prognugator Pawn of the Free Antinium has put healing scrolls up for sale through the Hive. In addition to this, he’s been made aware that illicit versions of his people’s goods have been sold—purely accidentally, I’m sure. Accordingly, he requested the Watch find and return any such items to the Free Hive. He fears they might be defective and has offered fair compensation for the scrolls. I think that must cover what you spent. That was how much he said the inferior copies were worth.”
One gold piece per scroll. She stepped back, stuffing them in her bag of holding, and now Yerham was pale-faced.
“You can’t do that! I acquired those for far, far more than—do you know how much that is? How exceedingly important—?”
He choked on his own words, and she raised her brows.
“A terrible accident occurred in which Workers sold what they were not allowed to, Merchant Yerham. If it transpires you spent more than what you were compensated, please have the Workers report the correct amounts and the Free Antinium will reimburse you. But there was no real crime committed. We’re just restoring order.”
Relc was grinning and nodding as the House of El’s men glanced at each other in clear dismay. This was the real value they’d been after in Liscor. Bicycle parts? Hah! The [Merchant]’s lips were tight, but he gave her a slight nod.
“I see. Well…done, Watch Captain. Will you be confiscating the Brother of Serendipitous Meeting’s stash as well?”
“I’ll leave that to Watch Commander Venim. I imagine their stocks will also plummet.”
She folded her arms, triumphant, as Kevin punched the air.
“And that’s a wrap! Case closed!”
“Not quite, K—Randy.”
Zevara held up a claw as Yerham’s men were put in cuffs. He was standing there, swaying, probably seeing weeks of hard work vanishing—and how he’d have to explain that to Lord Deilan El. She dropped her loud tone and spoke quietly.
“If you cooperate with the rest of my investigation, we may miss some of your possessions, Merchant Yerham. I need answers into the second part of my case, which is still unresolved.”
He blinked at her, then drew himself up.
“You have me dead to rights, Watch Captain. What can I answer? You did indeed shock me with your questions. If I can—assist in any way, I’ll be happy to.”
“Mm. Well then, in the interest of cooperation, talk to me about Carpenter Laikos.”
“Who, Watch Captain? Was that the Antinium you asked me about? I confess, I must have talked to a thousand this month alone. All but a few escape me.”
He shrugged, helpless. She frowned at him.
“Would you remember a Miss Noiraid? A female Antinium?”
He hesitated, then coughed into one hand.
“Yes…a good number of scrolls came from her, but the cheapest ones were bought directly. Several duds, but far less expense once you know what to search for.”
“And how many did you steal from?”
Yerham blinked, and her [Sense Intentions] got genuine puzzlement out of him along with the worry.
“Steal from? Watch Captain, I told you the truth in the Merchant’s Guild! I stole from none of the Antinium. I may be acting in the interest of House El, but I’m not insane. I’d rather not tangle with an Antinium Soldier!”
She frowned.
“You were seen in relation to several thefts.”
“I don’t know anything about that. I rather fear most Humans appear the same to Antinium—and vice versa, Watch Captain. I never recognized Miss Noiraid until she stepped out of the crowd and spoke. On truth stone, I assure you, I bought all my scrolls legally…though I can see why it’s a bad look. No one wants to publicly buy anything from the Hives.”
His lips twisted, and Zevara glanced at Relc and another [Guard]. Both of them shrugged; their own Skills hadn’t failed Yerham.
“Well, you’ll have some time in the Watch’s jails for us to confirm this story. But don’t worry—I’m sure House El will have you out right away.”
He sighed, and Zevara turned to Relc. He smiled at her.
“Got him, Watch Captain!”
“But not the thief. And I rather think that she’s the real flight risk. At least we know she can’t flee Liscor via the magic door. Lady Cecille Reinhart’s in a carriage.”
Zevara focused her attention on the only other suspect. The [Lady] who’d run her over. She was walking over to congratulate Kevin and Joseph on their parts of this operation. Rather to her surprise, Kevin seemed less-than-pleased, despite pulling off his ruse perfectly. He was trying a cigar and coughing.
“Fuck, Palt gave me one of these, but it’s not even that cool. I feel like a tool posing with this thing in my mouth.”
He handed it to Joseph, who handed it to Jerci. Kevin shoved his hands in his pockets and turned to Zevara.
“You know what’s fucked up about all this, Captain Z? Noir and cool investigation stuff aside…that was entrapment. Or something close, I dunno what you’d actually call it.”
“Enwhatment?”
She didn’t know the term, but Kevin’s mouth twisted, and he explained.
“It’s where the law puts bait out so they can see someone committing a crime. Where I come from, it’s illegal, and cops use it all the time to charge people. I never thought I’d be helping an officer do that. But I guess I like you.”
There was a woebegone look in his eyes, and the Watch Captain hesitated. She coughed into one claw.
“That isn’t a law in Liscor.”
“Yes, I bet.”
“If it is a problem, and I see some of the reasoning, you can explain it to me and I will bring it up with Watch Commander Venim. We did catch Yerham in the act.”
Kevin didn’t quite meet her eyes.
“Sure, that’s good. Just bitter, y’know? Especially because it turned out he wasn’t technically in the wrong, we just got him with Pawn recalling the scrolls. Which I bet isn’t kosher either.”
Zevara didn’t know what to say in the face of his failed expectations, and it hurt. Or rather, one part of her didn’t know what to say. The [Guardswoman] laid a hand on Kevin’s shoulder.
“It probably is breaking the law in some way, Kevin. But hindsight’s gotta count for something. Yerham’s man already tried to steal a bicycle, and it’s true he was acting within the confines of the law when he bought all the Antinium’s scrolls. Still, the Free Hive wasn’t aware they were being sold. If I were doing this the proper way, I’d have Yerham under surveillance. But we don’t have that.”
She’d had to ask Relc for help. Kevin nodded, a bit more reassured, then fixed Zevara with an odd, searching stare.
“Weird. You’re sort of flipping how you talk, Zevara. Weird double-personality thing. Coming from someone with practice in that—how’s the Antinium thing legal?”
He winked at her, and she faltered before giving him a coy smile.
“I can’t get Yerham on that. But if I wanted to make his life hard, I’d simply put it in the Free Hive’s hands. They can either demand them back or announce to the world they made them and put the House of El in a bind. But you know, Kevin—it’s not less messy that way. Say I did tell the Free Queen and she was upset, though it was legal. Maybe she punishes Pawn. Maybe she punishes the Workers. Maybe…she tells the Silent Queen to do a few assassinations with Silent Antinium.”
Yerham was near enough to hear that as he was being arrested, and he visibly blanched. Kevin sighed.
“Yeah, that checks out. But that’s breaking the law too.”
She nodded.
“Sometimes, the smaller crime is in service to the larger. And I hope your world’s laws can account for that. Not that I want that kind of loophole, but I’m bearing in mind that we have nations here, Kevin, and they break the law in big ways, with war and killings. This saved us from having to make it that incident. I can’t arrest Antinium Queens, Kevin. Yet.”
That made him grin. He saluted her with two fingers.
“If everyone were subject to the law, equally, then I’d have fewer problems with it, Zevara. Okay, that makes me feel better.”
She returned the grin, and the Watch Captain wiped it from their face. She folded her arms, eying the young man.
“So…what is entrapment, and tell me about anything I’ve missed in the course of my duties.”
“Aw, come on, you did it again! Okay, let me try.”
They were having a discussion, and Zevara was writing under the eaves of a building, when Relc’s speaking stone suddenly squawked. He yanked it out and put it to his ear.
“What’s that? She went over the north gate? Oh shit, Captain—”
Zevara spun.
“What? Impossible! It’s all water! The gates are sealed!”
The roads themselves were underwater at the highest point of the spring rains! Only bridges connected each hill, and they weren’t big enough to get more than a handcart over! Relc just shouted at her as Kevin’s eyes widened.
“She’s got an enchanted carriage! Apparently, it jumped the wall! Now it’s going straight over water! Zevara, she’s headed north, directly to Esthelm!”
Zevara felt her pulse accelerating. Despite herself, she grinned as she whirled.
“Then what are we waiting for? We’ll beat her through the door! Get me horses and all the [Guards] you can get. Go, go, go!”
“Holy shit, it’s a chase!”
Joseph shouted, and Kevin grabbed his bicycle.
“I’m coming with you!”
“Absolutely not—”
Zevara was already running down the streets, and Relc was even faster than she was. But she didn’t miss a loud, very upset voice coming from the speaking stone.
“Watch Commander Venim wants a word, Captain Z—”
“I’m busy!”
 
——
 
Now she was breaking laws. Of a sort. It was more like…the law just hadn’t caught up to her. Yes, she liked thinking of it that way.
“You can’t deploy the Watch in another city! This is—we’re not arresting a Reinhart! Not in Esthelm!”
A Watch Captain was shouting at her, a frantic Human man, as Zevara mounted a horse that Relc had secured from the stables. She shot back.
“We’re not arresting her! We just want to talk to Lady Cecille Reinhart. Her conduct in jumping Liscor’s walls seems suspicious. She’s a person of investigation—”
And she’s running because she has the Antinium’s scrolls. Yes, call it ‘entrapment’ like Kevin had said. Pawn recalling the scrolls might also not fit with the perfect definition of the law. But something wrong had been done, and both Zevara and Cecille knew it. Zevara added to the terrified Watch Captain.
“Plus, she ran me over with that damn carriage yesterday. It’s a menace on the roads. We’re pulling her over for a chat, Watch Captain.”
She turned her head to the skies ahead. It was clear around Esthelm, but she could see it sleeting down on the road just south of her.
Liscor’s rains ended at the Floodplain basin, and somewhere in the torrential deluge, a black carriage was riding over the waters.
Lady Cecille Reinhart was no idiot. She’d heard the Antinium announcement about the scrolls—and the recall—and she’d gone straight for the north gate. The [Guards] hadn’t expected her to be able to leave through the water.
Magic carriages. Damn things. It seemed the Reinharts loved them—but she had to pass by Esthelm on the road north. So Zevara and a dozen [Guards], including Relc, were ready to catch her.
He was on foot; everyone else had a horse. Kevin had a bike.
“Ke—Randy—get lost!”
Zevara was riding for the gates, but Kevin was on his personal bike, and he was adamant.
“Like heck I’m missing the final chase!”
All they had to do was get out the gates and they’d be on Cecille the moment she arrived, but the Watch Captain was freaking out. He barred her way.
“You have no right to enforce the law here, Captain Zevara!”
“A crime has been committed in Liscor, Watch Captain! Are you telling me you don’t acknowledge it? What if I was after a [Murderer]? You’re the Watch, and so am I!”
She drew the swarthy man up, and he hesitated.
“But that’s a Reinhart! Do you know what she’ll do to you if she holds a grudge?”
Zevara knew all too well, but she shot him a glare as smoke exited her mouth. It billowed up around the horse, who snorted, as if this was hyping her up.
“The law applies to everyone, Watch Captain! If I was afraid of the damn consequences, I would have quit long ago! Move aside!”
He still hesitated, but Kevin glanced at the man, then whistled.
“Pelt!”
The Dwarf had come to see what all the hollering was about. He shoved people aside, and when he saw Kevin, his face went pale. But he too had met Kevin—
“What nonsense are you up to this time, you fool? Get back before you get killed again!”
The Watch Captain stared at Kevin, seeing only Randy, but Kevin just pointed at Zevara.
“I’m helping Captain Zevara catch a criminal! C’mon, Pelt! She’s a Reinhart! Talk some sense into Watch Captain Merde over here!”
Pelt stared at Zevara, and then at the Watch Captain. He blinked at Zevara, then exhaled.
“A Reinhart, you said? Magnolia?”
“No.”
“Shame.”
Pelt stumped over and picked up the burly Watch Captain. He effortlessly lifted the man and shoved the rest of the Watch out of the way. Zevara blinked down at Pelt, who pointed at Kevin.
“If you die again, I’m not putting anything on your grave this time.”
Kevin just laughed. He rode his bicycle out the gates as the Watch galloped out—just in time.
“I see the carriage! She’s coming!”
[Guardswoman] Jerci pointed, and Zevara did indeed see the Reinhart carriage leaving a spray in the storm. It was moving fast, the team of four horses at a dead gallop.
“Dead gods, she’s going to run those animals into the ground. Go for the harness! Spread out—”
Zevara waved her hand, and the Watch complied. She took another look as the carriage hit the dry earth and saw water tearing off the carriage in a spray that left a rainbow, the least-befitting thing for Cecille Reinhart. Speaking of—Zevara’s mouth dropped open.
The [Lady] of House Reinhart wasn’t in her carriage. She had lost her [Driver], Sollux, and without him, she’d taken the reins. She was in the [Driver]’s seat, leaning over the reins, black dress billowing behind her.
She seemed like murder as she stared down the road and saw Zevara. She lashed the horses again, and they ran, tired or not, as her aura crackled with malice around her.
“Halt in the name of the Watch!”
Zevara roared, and someone shouted.
“Liscor’s Watch! Just Liscor’s—”
Cecille Reinhart shot past them, and Zevara didn’t even have the chance to say ‘after her’—she dug her heels into her horse’s sides, and the mare shot off. The Watch raced after the carriage, and Kevin swore.
“Wait, leg cramp, leg cramp—wait for me!”
Zevara wasn’t a great rider, but she could still gallop down the dry road as dirt clumps spat behind the carriage wheels. She gained swiftly on the carriage, shouting.
“Cecille Reinhart, you are under arrest! Halt the carriage or—”
“[Dangersense]! Captain, watch out!”
One of the Watch shouted, and she peeled back just in time. She’d been ready for Cecille to pull a wand on her, or one of her flunkies, but not for two long blades to click out of the carriage’s sides.
“Whoa! It’s got blades! Get back! Get back!”
Jerci galloped away in alarm as the carriage swerved right and left. The blades would have taken off the horses’ feet! Zevara urged her horse left and saw a window roll down.
“Crossbows!”
One of Cecille’s people fired the crossbow at the Watch, and Zevara ducked; something flew past her helmet, and she spat flames back—the window rolled up fast, and now the Drake was galloping next to the carriage.
“Cecille Reinhart! We’ll use deadly force!”
The woman shot her a glance and sneered—one of the Watch, Jerci, had managed to aim a bow while galloping. An arrow shot towards her coach and then snared itself in the air—a dozen black ribbons strangled it, and it dropped.
Dead gods, that’s a dangerous aura. The Watch was having trouble getting close! It was Sergeant Relc who closed the gap. The Gecko of Liscor was on foot and running hard.
“Argh, I hate horses! Slow down! I said slow—[Triple Thrust]!”
His spear struck three times with pinpoint accuracy, and one of the scythe-blades on the side of the carriage broke away. The Watch closed in, firing wands and striking the windows with their blades, keeping those from within from taking another shot at them.
“Cecille Reinhart!”
Zevara was going for the leads of the horses. She raised her sword to chop them and set the horses free when she saw Cecille press something in her driver’s seat.
“Watch o—”
The cloud of black smoke blasted everyone, and the Drakes’ horses screamed and slowed, rearing and unable to run while blinded. Zevara coughed as it got into her lungs. She broke out of the melee, wrestling her mare forwards—only Sergeant Relc had escaped the cloud. He charged after Cecille.
“Gotcha!”
His spear struck the carriage once, twice—he left huge gouges in the black paint. Then he took aim at a wheel. The entire carriage swerved as Cecille cursed. This time, it glowed and sped forwards.
“Oh come on—”
Zevara saw Relc accelerate, cursing. She shouted her own Skill.
“[Pursue the Quarry]!”
Her horse accelerated, not as fast as the carriage, but leaving the rest of the mounted Watch behind. Zevara clung to her mount, flat as she could. Minutes stretched out as the ground blurred beneath them; they dodged around slower-moving vehicles, and Zevara didn’t know whether her Skill would run out first or Cecille’s magic.
 
——
 
The enchantment ran out moments before Zevara’s Skill. She was almost on the carriage now, as it slowed, and she saw Relc panting just ahead of her. Now she saw the horses flagging!
She tried to urge her horse to move faster, but the mare was going full-out, and it wasn’t enough! She saw Relc nearing the carriage. He raised his spear—only for those black ribbons to snare his feet.
“Argh!”
He tripped and went tumbling! Relc slashed at the ribbons, cursing, and Zevara saw the carriage break out of the pass that led past Esthelm. Where were they? 
“Come on, just a bit further! Come on!”
The mare was trying, but she’d already been galloping full-tilt, and whatever Cecille Reinhart was doing, it was motivating her horses to gallop faster, exhausted or not.
Zevara saw green fields flash past her and cursed. Cecille was going to get away! She—
“Watch Captaaaain!”
Kevin pedaled past her, and Zevara nearly fell off her horse. Somehow—he’d caught up to them! No, now the Skills had ended, he was gaining on Cecille’s carriage!
Kevin’s enchanted bicycle was glittering in the sun as he stood up in the footrests and pumped his legs. He was an experienced biker from Earth, and he was on the max gear and Hedault’s enchanted pedals to outspeed the flagging carriage! But what was he going to do?
Zevara cried out a warning as she saw Cecille Reinhart glance over her shoulder. The [Lady] didn’t raise a hand, but one of the windows rolled down.
“Kevin! Watch out—”
The [Mechanic] was next to the rear wheels of the carriage, on the side without the scythe blade. He saw the window roll down and pedalled frantically a pace closer—then reached out and slapped the side of the carriage.
“[Rapid Disassembly]—oh shit!”
In slow motion, Zevara saw the back left wheel pop off the carriage. Beautifully, too. It was like it was pulled off and disassembled in each component part, axle, spokes, everything that could be removed spread out in a neat manner next to the carriage.
In motion. The pieces hit the ground and vanished instantly. And the carriage?
It lurched onto one side, skidded a hundred feet, and then the other wheels couldn’t keep it steady. Cecille’s carriage hit something—a rock—and overbalanced.
It rolled across the road as the horses tore free of their leads and galloped away, screaming. Zevara saw the [Lady] go flying—the carriage rolled eight times then came to a halt. The [Watch Captain] passed by Kevin; he’d wiped out to avoid the carriage wheel. Zevara’s eyes were on Cecille Reinhart, lying with her beautiful black scarf on the ground.
Was she alive? Zevara jumped from her saddle. She bent down and saw Lady Cecille’s eyes were open. She was lying on her front, panting for air—either an amulet or Skill had saved her or she was the luckiest woman alive.
“Lady Cecille? Are you hurt?”
The woman made no sound. She stared murder as her eyes locked onto Zevara—no, past her?
The boot nearly caved in Zevara’s head as she knelt by the [Lady]. It slammed into her shoulder instead as one of the three goons swore. They’d come out of the carriage dizzy and battered—but ready for a fight.
“Zevara!”
Kevin shouted as the Watch Captain lurched back. She reached for a sword she didn’t have—only her baton. When she grabbed it, one of the other men slashed at her with a shortsword. It buried itself in the baton, and she twisted, dragging it from his grip. She threw it aside, blade lodged in the baton and useless, and backed up.
They were unarmed, save for a man with a belt knife—they must have lost their weapons in the crash! She raised her fists as one came at her. He was bigger than she was and threw a gloved punch; she leaned back and threw a counter across his face.
It felt like she was hitting a rock. He tried to tackle her and made the same mistake as a lot of Humans: he forgot she had a tail. It had snaked through his feet, and he went over.
Zevara kicked him in the chest and got a blow to the side for her trouble—the second man came in swinging, and she backed up and opened her mouth.
Flames baked the screaming idiot until the third put her in a choke-hold. She gasped, throwing an elbow up and back, trying to get him to let go—until a fist punched the man off his feet.
“Hands off the Watch Captain!”
Relc followed up the punch with a kick to the ribs. He spun as Zevara gasped and blew another stream of flames at the man scrambling backwards.
She and Relc backed up into each other as the three of Cecille Reinhart’s servants came at them. Zevara spat a poof of smoke in one’s face and ducked a wild swing—Relc threw an uppercut that knocked the man off his feet, and the Human behind him tried to bring two fists on the back of his head. Zevara swept the Human’s leg and then jumped on his chest. She stomped with both her feet, bounced off him, and swung around.
The last man was flailing at Relc, who advanced, grinning as he caught a fist effortlessly. The [Spearmaster] pointed his free claw—the Human twisted just in time to see Zevara’s helmet approaching his nose.
They were down, and Relc was chortling as he dusted his claws off.
“Good fight, Captain Z! I knew you had them handled, but my punching fist got lonely.”
She grinned at him as she rubbed her knuckles.
“You came just in time, Senior Guardsman. I think that’s all of them. Wait, where’s Lady Cecille?”
They spun around—and found the [Lady] sitting cross-legged. Her arms were folded, and she gave them an icy gaze.
“I wish to issue a complaint to your commanding officers, Watch Captain. I am a [Lady] of the Five Families and you have impeded me on my travels and put my life in danger.”
She sneered at them, despite a bruise on one cheek and her rather wet, windblown self. Zevara just eyed Relc.
“Can I hit her?”
“Me? I have done nothing wrong, Watch Captain. Order your [Thug] away.”
“You’re under arrest for fleeing Liscor, Lady Cecille, and attacking the Watch!”
“Me?”
Cecille’s eyes widened in mock outrage. She brushed at her dress.
“I was merely departing the city. I committed no crimes—”
“You have Antinium healing scrolls in your possessions.”
“Bought legally.”
Relc was staring at her as he pointed at her broken carriage. Cecille sniffed.
“You shot at Watch officers! Your carriage had scythe blades!”
“My men protected me. They must not have heard you were Watch officers and acted overzealously in my defense. I did nothing. My carriage has self-defense mechanisms.”
Zevara put her hands on her hips. Truly amazing. So that was why Lady Cecille hadn’t drawn a wand.
“We have you on resisting arrest and your people’s actions, Lady Reinhart.”
“I demand to see my [Advocate]. House Reinhart will not accept your allegations. Now, I believe I’ve hurt myself. I must have a [Healer], so you will escort me there right away or I will charge you with mistreatment of a [Lady] of the Five F—”
Cecille Reinhart was brushing at her dress and striding towards one of the horses, and Zevara believed she actually would have tried to get on it and ride away. However, at that moment, a young man ran over and hit her with a bicycle.
Kevin Hall raised his enchanted bicycle overhead and hit Lady Cecille with it again. And then again. Possibly, she’d tried to say, ‘how dare you’ or ‘what is this’?
But it turned out her ability to drive like a madwoman and poise under fire was not backed by a sterling constitution for actual harm. Kevin lowered the bicycle and checked it for damage as he panted. Zevara and Relc stared down at the comatose [Lady] who wore an expression of utter astonishment; her eyes were rolled up into her head.
“I saw her making a run for it!”
Kevin innocently lowered the bicycle, and Zevara tried not to smile. Instead, she put on her sternest face.
“Thank you for your help, civilian Randy. I’m afraid that was utterly inappropriate, though. You should make yourself scarce before the [Lady] wakes. We have her under arrest—wait, where the hell are we? Esthelm? We must have gone miles!”
She realized this was nowhere near the places around Esthelm she knew. Relc scratched at his head.
“I think if it’s not Esthelm…the nearest big city would be…aw, hells.”
He turned his head, and Zevara actually closed her eyes this time. Then she swung around and saw a Golem Horse riding her way and a bunch of familiar, giant figures. And wouldn’t you know it—running ahead of them with a commendable turn of speed was Lord Xitegen.
 
——
 
“Watch Captain, we do keep meeting in the most unfortunate of circumstances. Cousin Cecille, you look delightful. Kisses, but I’m afraid you’ve got something on your face.”
“Who struck me? I’ll have them hung!”
Cecille Reinhart was screaming fury when she woke up, and that mask of contempt had well and truly slipped. Fortunately, Kevin had ridden off and Lord Xitegen had taken over. The rest of the Watch had finally caught up, indicating how fast the chase had been—far enough to take them into Celum’s lands, it seemed.
Given it was the only city between her and the north proper, Zevara bet they were just past Esthelm’s grounds. But it meant Lord Xitegen was the final word here, and Lady Cecille knew it.
“Xitegen, these thugs from Liscor attacked my carriage! Arrest them and find out who struck me!”
The Lord of House Terland was giving Zevara one of those pre-emptive apologetic gazes, but she was gratified by his response. He turned, smiling, sweating a bit in his noble running outfit—and you had to admit, he did have thighs that wouldn’t quit. The twisting aura of black ribbons, like snakes, around Cecille deformed, and she went staggering backwards.
Did he just hit her with his aura? Xitegen boomed genially.
“Cecille, I’m delighted to see you’re as nasty as ever, but you forget yourself. This is my land, my city, and I don’t like you. So do shut up while I talk to the lovely Drakes. What, pray tell, is she charged with, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“Resisting questioning by the Watch, attack on Watch officers, and lack of suitable attire in public.”
Zevara added the last one with a straight face, and Xitegen glanced at Cecille’s disorganized state. He chuckled again, then sighed.
“Did she hurt anyone in your pursuit?”
“No, but the lives of my people were threatened.”
“A fine, then. Hefty enough given you had your bullyboys out, Cecille. And are those scythe-blades? I thought you didn’t have any more carriages with those, unless you just add them in. My, my. You must learn to stand and answer for your crimes. At least in places with proper law and order.”
The [Lady] folded her arms, lips compressed. The rest of her men were in various states of injury, being propped up by Xitegen’s Golems. She said nothing, and Xitegen focused on Zevara.
“She’s no fun when you actually have her beat. And if you think she’s the worst viper of the house…Cecille’s a big one, but they have worse. I can see she’s distressed the Watch and upset Liscor greatly, and I wouldn’t be surprised if you banned her and her people, but out of courtesy to her house, if not her, and for your safety, I am minded to let her go with a hefty fine.”
“You what?”
Relc was getting a glimpse of the north’s style of law enforcement first-hand, and the rest of the Watch were also incensed. However, Zevara was cool. She felt better now. She knew she was in trouble with Venim; he’d been cursing her before this chase. However, right now, she was Senior Guardswoman Zevara, and her job wasn’t done.
Plus…her eyes glinted as she nodded at Lord Xitegen.
“I suppose if it’s your land, your rules go, Lord Xitegen. I hope that someday you respect the law when it’s not convenient to ignore it.”
That needled him a bit. His chest inflated, and he sighed.
“Well said, Watch Captain. But I trust I won’t have issues with you over this?”
She saluted him crisply as Relc stared at her.
“No, sir! But may I entrust the second part of Liscor’s duties to you? Namely, the compensation for the recalled items in Lady Reinhart’s possession?”
He blinked at her.
“The what?”
 
——
 
Lady Cecille had nearly eighty scrolls in her possession. If you counted them as healing potions, that was a lot of money. Xitegen murmured.
“What’s the going rate on healing potions these days, Seconda?”
“It is eighty-eight gold pieces and seven silver where purchasable, Lord Xitegen. The Merchant’s Guild in First Landing has…zero in stock at the list price. Inquiries to be made with the [Guildmaster] directly.”
“My oh my. And the Free Antinium are refunding how much, Watch Captain?”
“One gold coin.”
Xitegen snapped his fingers. His eyes had lit on the scrolls, and Cecille was growing paler and paler by the second. She knew what he was going to do, and Zevara had a good inkling.
“Well, I am happy to compensate Cecille myself! Seconda, credit eighty-eight gold pieces to Cecille’s personal account at the Merchant’s Guild, would you? And I will confiscate these scrolls. You may assure the Prognugator that I will dispose of them properly.”
“Not return them to the Free Antinium, Lord Xitegen?”
Zevara was thinking of Robb’s comment. The Thigh Man himself bought scrolls from Liscor…Xitegen raised his brows at her, unashamedly direct.
“No, I rather don’t think I’ll stuff a gift horse back where it came from, Watch Captain. Call that more unscrupulous behavior, but I rather think your people would applaud you if you confiscated such items for them.”
She had to agree with that, but the Watch Captain was still too smiley. Too calm. Xitegen noticed.
“…Unless you have some claim?”
“Oh, no, Lord Xitegen. If Celum wishes to confiscate the scrolls, we of Liscor’s Watch can do nothing. I will simply go back and inform Pawn and Miss Lyonette of my inability to recover the scrolls, but I am sure they will trust your good word and hold you to account for any imbalances.”
Relc slowly smiled as Lord Xitegen’s face became frosty.
“Ah. Princess Lyonette and the Free Antinium. Groups of utmost restraint and sobriety.”
“And unwillingness to hold grudges. I speak from personal experience, Lord Xitegen.”
He rubbed at his chin.
“…And the only group that will sell these damn things in the future. I see, I see. Very well done, Watch Captain. Here I thought you couldn’t play northerner’s games. It would appear that Drake stubbornness is only skin-deep in some cases. Very well—take them. And do remind the Prognugator of my commitment to fairness.”
He flicked his fingers and turned. Cecille snapped.
“You’re letting her walk over you, Xitegen? You coward!”
“Cecille, the continent has changed since Magnolia put you to bed. If you want to play your old games with Liscor, go right ahead. But I think today would be a lesson, if I thought you were capable of learning.”
He shot back, and Cecille’s eyes focused on Zevara. There was a grudge there, oh yes. The Watch Captain just saluted the [Lady] as Relc gathered up the scrolls.
“I deeply regret the loss of your vehicle, Lady Reinhart. In the future, I hope you will cooperate with the Watch to the utmost extent of your disabilities.”
“Yeah, or bring more goons! I didn’t even get in a good punch!”
Relc grinned at her, and the [Lady]’s nostrils went so wide that Zevara was impressed. She didn’t know Humans did that. But the [Watch Captain] did step forwards.
“And in the future, try to just buy goods from the Antinium, Lady Cecille. Stealing from them is crass, even for a [Lady].”
The woman’s eyes narrowed, and Zevara felt her aura wrapping around her like dangerous, slithering vines. However, the Watch Captain didn’t move away. Cecille’s voice was low.
“You truly are a fool, Watch Captain. I will remember this—and if you think I needed to steal from those wretches, you are twice as delusional and ignorant of the north. House Reinhart’s coffers run deeper than you can even dream.”
Huh? Zevara met those simmering eyes, and again, she felt that disconnect. Was the [Lady] lying? If so, Zevara would never know, even with a Skill or truth stone, if she had one. And yet—she stood there until Relc coughed.
“Zevara, Venim wants you in his office the moment we go through a door.”
“I’ll take you to Celum. It’s almost as close.”
Xitegen offered Zevara, and she stepped back. But now…now…
 
——
 
She was thinking when Venim slammed his hands on the table and shouted at her. Thinking, her hands and feet locked in parade rest, as three other people stood behind her.
Watch Captain Ronss, Watch Captain Beilmark, and Sergeant Relc, acting as Watch Captain for her district, winced as Venim shouted.
“Arresting a Reinhart out of Liscor! Disregarding my orders! Stealing a Watch uniform—”
“As a matter of fact, Watch Commander, that was my property. I merely clocked in as Senior Guardswoman Zevara. Relc can show you the day log.”
“I do have it. I thought it was a joke.”
Relc had the booklet, and Venim spat at Zevara; she thought flames would be broiling her if he had her abilities.
“You do not have a Senior Guardswoman’s rank! You are a [Watch Captain]—”
“Actually, I have both classes.”
Her soft voice brought him up. He peered at her.
“What?”
“I’m a [Guardswoman] and a [Watch Captain], Commander. I have dual classes. Both over Level 30.”
She gazed over his shoulder, and the other members of the Watch stared at her—then Relc raised a hand.
“Hey, Captain Z! High five! I knew there was someone else like me!”
She high-fived him, which brought Venim straight back into rage mode.
“This is all technicalities, Zevara! You disobeyed my orders and pursued that investigation on your own!”
“And caught the [Merchant] and [Lady] stealing the scrolls, yes, Watch Commander? She was correct there was more going on.”
Beilmark interjected. Venim hesitated, because he was, again, mad but not stupid. He could tell his Watch Captains had Zevara’s back. He sat himself down, glaring.
“Am I the Watch Commander of Liscor, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“Of course, sir.”
“Well, I don’t feel like it. I rather feel like you’ve taken on the role of ultimate discretion in the city and I’m only acting in the job until you decide otherwise. We must have a hierarchy of command here, and if we do not, then there is no system behind our laws!”
He had a good point. Zevara shuffled her feet.
“I do acknowledge your authority, Watch Commander. I just…believe, strongly, that there are matters in which an officer needs to be able to overrule their commander. To be the one executor of the law who cannot be swayed. It happened in Esthelm and Celum as well; the law is measured differently in each city when I should have had jurisdiction in each, or at least, cooperation!”
He pulled at his neck spines.
“The law is subordinate to politics, Zevara; we’ve been over this! You know it!”
“It shouldn’t be.”
She met his eyes, and he opened his mouth to shout…then sat back.
“You’re right. It shouldn’t be. I’m not happy with it either, but I didn’t take this job because I was enamored with dreams or ideals. Every one of us has had to compromise in some way. So yes, I acknowledge that the full weight of the law wasn’t backing you up. The Merchant’s Guild is trying to get Master Yerham out, and the House of El has an [Advocate] waiting for me. It shouldn’t be this way, but it is. At the same time, I need you to follow orders.”
She was nodding and knew it was time for her punishment, but she was still…thinking.
“The case isn’t closed though, Commander. I have it from both Lady Cecille and Merchant Yerham they didn’t steal the Antinium’s items.”
He twitched.
“Watch Captain—I need you to follow orders.”
Someone else spoke up. Watch Captain Ronss had a black eye and a nasty scrape over one cheek, but he was still working. He gave Zevara a glance as he stepped forwards.
“Sometimes, it’s the wrong orders though, Watch Commander. If I’d listened to Zevara, we wouldn’t have gotten into the mess with the Brothers.”
“Watch Captain Ronss, thank you for your input, but this and that are different matters. Alright, let me focus on the things I can agree with.”
He crossed his arms, clearly trying to mediate.
“—The Antinium issue was bigger than I imagined. All those scrolls…over a hundred were recovered between the two Humans, and that’s a vast fortune in gold and healing. The Council is meeting to negotiate with the Free Antinium for the Watch and our army. I agree, it was worth prioritizing! At the same time…we had officers investigating!”
“But not experts, Watch Commander. I put Jerci and the Antinium on it, but they made things worse. One poor Antinium lost his mind—we don’t have good Senior Guard pairs. Me and Klbkch…well, we might not have done better since Klbkch is actually pretty bad with Antinium himself, but we need more specialists.”
Venim nodded as Relc put in that rather astute observation, and Beilmark shot him an astonished glance and nudged him approvingly. He grinned, and Venim gave him a brusque nod as he checked the report again.
“True. But the chase was far too risky. That [Lady] is a menace. Did you…did she really have blades on her carriage? I think that’s the one law she actually broke. Those are highly illegal.”
“Really?”
Even Zevara didn’t know that. Damn, she could have hit Cecille with something harder than Kevin’s bicycle. Well, that alone made her smile.
Ronss grinned too.
“C’mon, Commander Venim. You were cheering on Watch Captain Zevara, same as the rest of us! Dead gods, an old-fashioned chase? We haven’t had one of those for years!”
Venim made a slashing motion at Ronss, but the overexcitable Watch Captain turned to Zevara as she blushed.
“I wish I’d been there to go after her! Mind you, I can’t ride for anything, but Lens—you know Lens? He was moaning that you didn’t pick him! He’s got [Rider] Skills and the class, and he just got off leave!”
Zevara’s whirling thoughts solidified in a moment. She and Relc exchanged a glance, and then they swivelled around to face Ronss.
“What was that, Ronss?”
“Uh, what?”
“Lens. What did you just say about him?”
Senior Guardsman Lens, who was at the heart of her investigation without any leads…Zevara stared at him, and the Watch Captain stuttered.
“Well, I—I just said that he was upset you didn’t take him. But it’s no big problem. He was on paternity leave until yesterday, so…”
“He was what? That’s impossible.”
Relc interrupted urgently. Now the cards were falling in Zevara’s mind. Ronss eyed Relc.
“He had a kid. I’m sure of it.”
“But I read his reports! All this month! He was the one who dealt with the Antinium…thefts…”
“What’s this, Sergeant Relc?”
Venim had caught wind of the same thing as the others now. Beilmark was sniffing the air out of reflex, and Zevara spoke.
“That’s why no Antinium ever got their stolen items back. Senior Guardsman Lens never returned them.”
“Wait, he’s been stealing from Antinium? Lens?”
Watch Captain Ronss’ eyes went round in horror, and she shook her head. Now, Zevara was pacing, pacing around the office, ignoring Venim.
“Not Lens. But it makes sense. I just talked to Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille. Both looked me in the eye and swore they weren’t the ones stealing from Antinium…but they were the ones the Antinium described. A [Merchant] in clothing and a [Lady] with a rosewood scarf.”
Beilmark rubbed at her badge with one finger.
“They could have lied to you, Zevara. Remember the Named-rank adventurer? Regrika Blackpaw?”
Zevara nodded, but she didn’t agree.
“Maybe…but it never added up. I didn’t know why until I met the two. Yerham is an agent of the House of El. He’s more interested in technology, and his man wasn’t violent; he just ran away when I chased him. He said it himself: why steal from Antinium? And Cecille Reinhart…she’d steal from them, but they always identified her as the one doing the crime. Carpenter Laikos said she shoved him and took his doll.”
“I’d believe she’d steal candy from Mrsha, or try. What’s off about that, Captain Z?”
Relc commented. Zevara regarded him.
“It doesn’t fit her character, Relc. The nastiness, yes, but being hands-on? The entire time she was in Liscor, I never even saw her step out of her carriage. When she told me she never set foot on our streets, I believed her! The idea she’d do the dirty work herself, let alone touch an Antinium…it doesn’t add up.”
“But…those are your suspects, Watch Captain.”
Venim interjected, trying to piece it together as well. Zevara looked at him, and an idea coalesced in her mind. Well, when you’d run through all the other options…
“There’s one last party, Commander. And a few more odd things. When I talked to Pawn, he showed me the articles of faith. It’s pretty obvious what they look like if you’ve bought a few. Cecille Reinhart could recognize them, but Antinium who were stolen from lost personal items without faith as well as valuables. The [Thieves] didn’t have nearly as much experience as people working with them.”
“Okay, that does seem odd. But if they saw a [Lady]…”
“They saw a [Lady]. But I don’t think it was Cecille. Not only would it be stupid of her to just walk up and snatch things…I think it was a fake. An illusion.”
Relc’s brows shot up, and Zevara murmured as the pieces fit.
“Carpenter Laikos. When I interviewed him the first and second times, he described the [Lady] as wearing a ‘rosewood scarf’. Red and black. So did other Antinium. But that doesn’t work. Because Cecille might wear a scarf, but it’s not that pattern. It’s more like a spiderweb. Relc, you saw it. Would you call that rosewood?”
“Uh, no. It was expensive as heck. Magical.”
Zevara nodded.
“It’s the kind of thing you could easily mistake, but Laikos told me himself—he knows beauty. Even if he didn’t appreciate it, I doubt a [Carpenter] would confuse wood patterns.”
Venim frowned.
“He’s an Antinium, Watch Captain. He might not have known the difference. But are you saying that wasn’t the [Lady]?”
Zevara nodded.
“It just looked like her. Just like Guardsman Cossl said he handed over items to Senior Guardsman Lens—who couldn’t have been there. It’s so clever. The paperwork’s in our system, and only the Antinium would realize that no one actually got their items back.”
“So someone was posing as Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille to put the blame on them. And then they also hid items that the Watch recovered by posing as Lens!”
Beilmark murmured. Zevara nodded, and Ronss threw up his hands.
“But then—this is a disaster! It could be anyone! Wait, I bet it’s the Brothers. Rings of disguise aren’t cheap! I bet it’d hard to fake a magical scarf, which is why it appeared cheaper, but even that costs more gold than any random person could spend. But Zevara, you have no proof!”
Relc’s face fell, and Zevara let out a smoky breath. She swore she heard Kevin’s voice narrating in a deep monotone.
And in the room, the beleaguered Watch Captain with smoke-for-brains finally put two and two together. The crime was good, perfect, and she had no evidence, but the bastards had made one mistake by being too clever…
She turned to Venim and realized he’d gotten it. Zevara glanced at the others and shook her head.
“Oh, no. There was only ever one other group spotted around the Antinium, Ronss. And they overplayed their hand. It could have been anyone…except for one problem. Tell me, Relc, since you’ve been doing desk duty. Who has access to all the stamps and paperwork you’d need to file Lens’ report?”
He shrugged and counted on his claws.
“Hardly anyone. For a Senior Guard like him? You’ve gotta be at a desk in the Watch House, filing the damn stuff—you used to chew me out for not doing it after a patrol. Then you glance it over and add your stamp. So…it’d be a Watch Captain, really, if you were faking the entire thing. Or Venim. Or…”
He drew in a breath, and Zevara nodded. Venim finished the sentence.
“Or someone who has all the clearances. Who appears on no lists and can fake paperwork. Agents who…”
Who have all the best gear. Rings to disguise themselves, become invisible, and who could enter and leave a city and take all the paperwork they wanted…or put it back in its place. 
Zevara saw Hissl and Moass with the folders under their arms. She spoke softly.
“Hissl and Moass. The two most generic and silly names I’ve ever heard. Everyone I met laughed at the names because they’re so silly. So fake. And that’s it. That’s our motive.”
“How?”
Venim was watching her, and Zevara focused on him.
“Isn’t it obvious, Venim? They’re like you. They’re Drakes. They hate the Antinium! Buying something from the enemy—Robb, the Brothers’ leader, told me himself. No one in the cities is buying the scrolls. But that’s just stupid, isn’t it? This is a rare resource! You probably won’t get a High Command in any major city who’ll authorize giving the Antinium gold. But stealing from them…”
That made sense. It explained why they were unfamiliar, why Noiraid and the Brothers didn’t know them, and why they’d rushed to pin it on the north. That was just cream on top of the pie they were serving themselves.
“But which group?”
“I don’t know. But I’ll bet it’s a Walled City. Not Pallass’. They didn’t know the two. Watch Commander, I need you to put out a full alert for Hissl and Moass!”
Venim hesitated as Zevara spun, and his eyes flickered.
“But they had all the right papers. If they belong to a Walled City—”
She slammed her fists on his desk, and he jumped.
“Commander, they stole from Antinium! This isn’t the same as Yerham or Cecille! This is a crime!”
“Petty theft.”
“Is it a crime or not, Watch Commander? Or are the Antinium not good enough, huh?”
Relc gazed at him, and the Watch Commander met Zevara’s eyes. Then his features firmed, and he grabbed a speaking stone.
“Watch Commander Venim to all Watch Houses. I have two criminals I want apprehended on sight! They go by the names of Hissl and Moass and represent themselves as agents with all the proper papers—they are to be detained without release for any reason on my orders…”
Watch Captain Zevara spun. Her blood was pumping in her veins now, and she gazed at Relc.
“What’re the odds they’re still in the city, Captain Z?”
She shook her head.
“The moment Cecille Reinhart heard the announcement from Pawn, she ran. But she knew we were coming after her. They’ve been laughing at us, probably reading our reports and seeing us going after the Humans! They might be taking their time—but either way, there’s only one way to their city.”
“The inn.”
She was running out of Venim’s office a second later. Relc beat her to the doors and flung them open. Venim shouted.
“Watch Captain, if they make it to Pallass, they’ll be in the jurisdiction of the Walled City!”
She stopped in the doorway dramatically and met his eyes.
“They’re Liscor’s criminals. Our responsibility. First, I arrest them. Then someone can try to take them from me.”
Then she was running, running out of the office and down the street, and she knew there was only one thing between Hissl and Moass and their getaway.
Liska.
 
——
 
The [Doorgnoll] was bored as she sent people through the doors, so she was chatting. It meant she slowed down the [Door of Portals], but since she was doing her job and there were no lines forming, you got what you paid for. Which was her and only her, because she was awesome.
“So where are you headed?”
“Uh, Celum, Miss.”
“Ooh. What’s in Celum?”
“Er—an [Apothecary] I know. I’m getting a cream.”
“For what?”
Liska was harassing a woman at the door, who hesitated, then leaned in and whispered to Liska. The Gnoll’s mouth dropped open.
“Oh. Um. Good luck. Next!”
A group of rather impatient people were jostling in the queue as she switched the door to Invrisil. One stepped forwards.
“Excuse me, Miss?”
“Hey! [Form a Line], buddy!”
She pointed, and he snapped into line, seeming shocked she could do that to him. Liska was channeling her Erin, and she glared at him.
“No cutting, no exceptions! I mean, unless you’re part of the inn. But you’re not. I think.”
She squinted at the Drake. Nope, he looked like some generic loser she’d never see again. He protested.
“We’re in a hurry—and we’re agents of Pallass!”
He did appear rather antsy, and so did his partner, who brandished some documents at her. She whistled.
“Ooh, look at those fancy passports. Alright, well, I need you to put them in the right place.”
“Where?”
“Up my ass. But not seriously—I’m not making an exception for you! Back of the line! And if you complain, I’ll kick you out! Just say the word and make my day: I have a Named-rank adventurer I can call on.”
She rubbed her paws as the Drakes spluttered. They shuffled back—then she made them go to the back of the line where they grumbled. Just to spite them, Liska took extra long bringing everyone in from Invrisil.
When she finally opened the door to Pallass and let people through, she conjured a [Forcewall] at the door.
“So, Mister Agent Drakes, what brings you to Pallass?”
She purred at them, and the shorter one glowered.
“We’re returning to our cities. On urgent business.”
They had, she noticed, a Chest of Holding between them.
“Ooh. Did some shopping in Liscor, did you?”
The taller one smirked.
“Not much shopping. May we go, Miss?”
“Sure, sure. It’s Liska, by the way.”
“Thank you, Miss—”
He walked into the [Forcewall], and Liska beamed at him.
“Miss Liska.”
“Miss Liska. Thank. You.”
“What’s your name?”
A muscle twitched in his cheek, but the shorter Drake exhaled and offered her a patient smile.
“It’s Hissl. And I’m Moass, Miss.”
“Moass?”
She started guffawing on her couch and pointed at him. The shorter Drake shifted.
“Yep. Had it every day I was alive. Moass.”
“Moass. And I thought Noass was bad enough…oh, dead gods! Do you know Noass? Is that your family name? Is your dad like—Groass? Is your mom Fatass?”
The two agents were trying not to encourage her as people in line fidgeted. Liska wheezed and eventually waved a paw.
“Okay, okay. Go on through. Moass.”
She saw them huffily stride through the door into an open checkpoint and sighed. Well, that was fun.
A few minutes later, the door to Liscor burst open when she changed the dial to it, and someone leapt through.
“LISKA!”
“Aaah! What is it this time?”
Liska fell off her couch as Zevara stormed into the room, flashing her badge around. She was panting smoke.
“Lock down the door! No—did two Drakes come through here to Pallass? Hissl and Moass—open the door, I need to ask the guards—”
Liska got up, gawping, as Sergeant Relc appeared behind Zevara. He had his spear, and the clamor as she changed the door dial attracted people.
“What’s going on? Captain Z? What is it?”
Kevin and Joseph came skidding into the room ahead of Lyonette. They seemed to know what was going on. Zevara gasped.
“It’s the Drakes. Are they in Pallass?”
“Y-yeah. They must have left only a few minutes ahead of—”
“Move! Watch pursuing a suspect!”
Zevara charged into the door to Pallass followed by Relc, Kevin, and Joseph. She could hear them shouting at Pallass’ [Guards]. Liska sat on her couch as Lyonette whirled, demanding to know what was going on.
She hadn’t done anything! It wasn’t her fault! Then she heard a siren going off in Pallass, and someone shouted.
“It’s on the news!”
Liska lifted her scrying orb, and there was Watch Captain Zevara. She watched the orb. Then she sat back on her couch.
“Why do cool things never happen to me?”
Then she thought about the Goblin King.
“Actually, I’m fine. This is great.”
 
——
 
Then it was just the chase. The simplest part of the entire case, when the suspect was fleeing and you had nothing left to do but get them.
Of course, it was hard. They had a lead on her, and they were in a huge Walled City, but Zevara didn’t have to worry about the mystery any longer. She was devoting all of her mind and body towards one thing:
Get them. The image of Carpenter Laikos was in her mind, and Noiraid, asking if Antinium mattered. Well, she had only her actions as proof.
“Out of the way! We are after criminals, and you are obstructing the Watch!”
She was shouting at the barred gate, and the Garuda shouted back.
“We’re the Watch! I—hey, attack, attack!”
Sergeant Relc was stabbing the enchanted gates with his spear. He muscled it up before a mechanism locked it in place, but he refused to let it drop. Joseph bellowed.
“Open the gate! Some idiots are impersonating the Eyes of Pallass, and they’re escaping! Can’t you see it’s Watch Captain Zevara?”
Beyond them, people on the streets were turning at the clamor. The [Guardsman] hesitated—Kevin burst through the door behind them, lugging something.
“Oh come on—out of the way! [Rapid Disass—]”
Before he could try his Skill on Pallass’ gates, the mechanism abruptly released. Relc yanked his arm out, and Zevara heard a familiar voice speaking.
“Eyes of Pallass. Zemize. Apprise me, Watch Captain.”
Zevara charged through the door, and the female Drake was there with a group of other Eyes of Pallass. She barked.
“Hissl and Moass. They’re escaping with a fortune in Antinium healing items! They’ve been stealing from Antinium for at least a month and pinning the blame on the Humans!”
“And?”
One of the agents raised a brow and put out an arm. To stop them? Zevara snarled.
“They stole from citizens of Liscor, and if you don’t respect that, then know they were masquerading as Eyes of Pallass the entire time! They just came through the gates, and your security let them through!”
There was a round of curses from the agents, and Zemize instantly yanked out a speaking stone. She barked into a stone at her wrist.
“This is Zemize to Floor 1. Prepare to lock the gates!”
“It’s not going to do any good—they’ve got papers like yours!”
Joseph was shouting. Zevara could just imagine the two slipping away in the chaos, or worse, disguising themselves.
In a city this large…all they had to do was change their identities, not even with magic, and they’d slip out!
“We’ll never find them. Does anyone have a tracking Skill? I don’t have anything of theirs—”
She turned to Relc, and the Gecko was peering around at the crowds.
“Damn. If only we could get them to reveal themselves! They can’t get to the first floor that fast, Captain Z. We’ve got time.”
“But how?”
Then Zevara began to eye the ground. She walked forwards as Zemize snapped.
“Leave it to us. We have detection spells at every gate. I need a description of the Drakes, and then we’ll know exactly who they are and where they went. Even if they get on a trade road, we’ll have their vehicle. I need twenty Eyes on me!”
She grabbed Relc and towed him with her. He cast a glance at Zevara…she was walking down the street, following something. Like…footsteps? The [Spearmaster]’s eyes widened, then he cast around.
“Kevin, Kevin—”
He jerked his head at Zevara, and the young man nodded and followed her. Joseph didn’t notice. He was just thinking.
“Hm. How do you get these guys to show themselves?”
He looked up and glanced around.
“Wh—hey, where’d everyone go?”
The [Football Coach] spotted Zevara in the crowd and began to run after her. Then someone grabbed him.
“Joseph!”
A female Drake with bright yellow scales grinned at Joseph. Drassi Tewing and her Channel 2 camera crew had appeared as if by magic. He blinked.
“Wh—Drassi? What are you doing here?”
“[Reporter’s Intuition], Joseph! Plus, I have someone watching the inn at all times. What, do you think I’m stupid? I swear I just saw Zevara and Relc. What’s the scoop? And how much danger?”
He protested as he searched for Zevara, but she was gone.
“Drassi, we’re chasing some guys who stole a bunch of Antinium goods! They’re impersonating Eyes of Pallass! And we can’t find them…”
Her eyes were glittering as she signalled the [Cameraman] to begin recording, but not broadcasting—yet. Joseph’s rather famous face was already attracting attention.
“Wait, two disguised as Eyes of Pallass? Tell me everything—but how can I help? Can I help?”
“I don’t know…there are so many people here. I can’t tell how you’d spot them, even at the gates. One’s tall and green-scaled, the other’s got blue scales…wait. Wait—”
He was staring at the camera crew. The [Football Manager] was remembering games in packed stadiums and that damn camera that zoomed in on people. He seized Drassi’s shoulder.
“Drassi! I need you to broadcast something right now, across Pallass! Everyone watches emergency broadcasts, don’t they?”
“Well, yeah, but—”
“Do as I say!”
 
——
 
Channel 1 was hosting Noass and Sir Relz opining on the state of the economy with all these new coins in circulation when their broadcast was interrupted. The two [Commentators] broke off and glowered.
“What is it this time?”
“Channel 2 broadcast! It’s an emergency news story!”
Those overrode everything else, and Noass growled.
“It had better be important or she’ll be censured by Wistram!”
He saw the image of Drassi flash up onto a screen in front of him, replacing his and Sir Relz’s image so they could see how they looked. Someone turned up the volume, and Noass saw Drassi wasn’t alone. It seemed like she was on the 8th Floor? What was going on this time? The inn?
“Ancestors, it’s the 8th Floor again. What is it, a second Goblin King?”
There was a nervous titter in the room as Sir Relz leaned forward, and then Drassi spoke.
“This is Drassi with a live announcement for all of Pallass! I’m here with Coach Joseph with an urgent appeal to the citizens of Pallass!”
Interested civilians were turning behind her, and many more were checking scrying stones or new, cheap devices from Wistram that had lit up with the alert. Drassi turned to Joseph, who was scanning the crowds.
“We’re looking for a pair of Drakes on exceptionally urgent business! They may be about to leave the city—it’s a pair, apparently holding a Chest of Holding? One’s tall, the other shorter. The taller one has green scales, the shorter, blue. And they go by Hissl and Moass! That’s right—Noass’ long lost brother is in our city! Please, if you see them, shout and wave at us! We’re going to the balcony of the 8th Floor, and we’ll hopefully see them from there.”
“Er, what?”
Noass’ mouth had dropped open, and Sir Relz eyed him. They realized the cameras were rolling again.
“Noass, your brother’s in this city? You never introduced me! Never even mentioned him!”
“My—wh—I didn’t know I had a brother! I have a brother? I thought I was an only child! Moass?”
They stared at the screen, and Drassi was jogging along with Joseph, who was nodding.
“Uh, that’s right. His long lost brother! Moass! If you spot them, call it out! Don’t let them leave! Here, do you see them?”
The camera showed a dizzying view of the city with huge staircases leading down to the smallest, central floor, which was still massive. Tens of thousands of people were walking up and down the steps, but the movement had slowed; they were staring up at Drassi as she shouted.
“Moass! Your brother is searching for you! Does anyone see two Drakes with a Chest of Holding? Wave—don’t wave if you just want attention, you idiots!”
She and Joseph were scanning the crowd. There was just a sea of tiny people below; Noass was fanning at his face.
“I feel faint. My brother? Was it my mother? My father? Wh-what do I do, Sir Relz?”
“Steady, Noass. The odds of someone seeing them in this mess are low…”
But the entire city was now searching. Drassi was glancing down at people waving just for attention, cursing—but then she grabbed Joseph’s arm.
“Wait. There!”
She pointed, and they saw a pair of Drakes running down the stairs. Noass gasped. It was exactly like Joseph had described! Only, they were running, and the waving people were shouting and trying to get them to stop.
Noass was standing up.
“I—I have to go. Dear viewers, I must leave and, uh—”
He could get out of the studio and head down. Dead gods, what did—
And then Joseph shouted.
“Watch Captain Zevara! There! There they are! Don’t let them get away! They’re thieves!”
Noass froze. He saw the camera focus—and there was Watch Captain Zevara, who was moving along the 8th Floor. She’d been following something on the ground, but when she heard Joseph’s voice, her head snapped up. She turned—and the two Drakes began to run faster.
“Wait. Thieves? What?”
Drassi was joining in the shouting.
“They’re almost at 1st Floor! Stop them! They’ve stolen from the Free Antinium! Get me an elevator! The Watch Captain of Liscor is after them! But she’ll never make it!”
Zevara was six floors up. Joseph cursed as he wavered—but he was standing where he was, keeping an eye on the fleeing shapes. He shouted at the Watch below, but they were busy watching the television, which was on a five minute delay—only Zevara had seen. And she—turned—as Kevin grabbed her arm.
He had a bike.
 
——
 
Her bike. Zevara stared at it as Kevin pointed.
“They’re getting away, Zevara! Come on!”
She blinked at the gleaming contraption of metal and remembered him catching Cecille Reinhart’s carriage. Then Zevara looked around.
The two Drakes were running at full sprint for the gates. She was eight floors up—she swung herself onto the seat, and then she was peddling, shouting.
“Out of the way! Watch in pursuit of criminals!”
The people of Pallass had just caught up to the part of the broadcast where Drassi revealed that Hissl and Moass were criminals. Then they gazed up from their scrying orbs to see a Drake hurtling down the 8th Floor on a bicycle.
Zevara’s head was down, and her tail was up to avoid the wheel. She was cycling madly, smoke blowing out of her mouth as she glanced at Joseph’s pointing finger. Her Watch uniform was smudged with rain and grit. Her bike skidded, going diagonal as she swung right.
The staircase—! She gazed down tens of thousands of steps and cursed as she saw the pedestrians. Then her eyes fixed on the gap between stairs.
The huge bannisters of smooth stone that skateboarders had been zooming down since Kevin invented the device!
There was a newly-installed railing that had a sign. It said ‘no skateboarding’.
Zevara jumped it with her bicycle. She didn’t even know she could do that—then her wheels hit the huge gradient.
“Oh sh—”
She accelerated down the ramp, and her bicycle tore past staring faces. A Dullahan [Guardsman] dove out of the way as she shot off the 7th Floor and caught six seconds of air. She clung to the handles as her body lifted up—then landed in the seat.
It hurt like hell, but she was racing down the 6th Floor—then the 5th—above her, Kevin was screaming and shouting.
“Go, Zevara, go! Holy shit!”
He’d never seen any creation of his going half the speed she was. He hoped to hell the shocks and brakes were working! But where…
Where were the agents?
 
——
 
The Watch Captain was shooting down the 4th Floor like an arrow as Joseph caught his breath in dismay.
“They’re going out the gates! No! Stop them!”
He alone had eyes on the two from his vantage point. Hissl and Moass had grabbed the first carriage they’d spotted and commandeered it. They slowed at the gates, but whatever they did—they forced the [Guards] to let them through.
God damn papers! Drassi was in hot pursuit of Zevara, following the Watch Captain, but he could see that she had lost Hissl and Moass without eyes on them. Could she see them with her Skill if they were in a vehicle?
Joseph ran across the eighth floor, and Kevin found him.
“Joseph! They’re fucking getting away!”
“Quick! To the 9th Floor! They were headed out the western gate—we might be able to spot them from there! I know the carriage they were in!”
The two young men ran up the stairs. A [Soldier] guarding the entrance to 9th Floor was about to stop them, but he recognized Joseph.
“Coach? What’s going on—”
“Move! We need to find a carriage! Where is it? Where—?”
The two young men tore across the dizzying heights of Pallass. Four hundred feet down, tiny vehicles and people were moving across the vast trade road. Joseph tore at his hair.
“No! I can’t see shit! They’re getting away!”
Kevin had a scrying orb he’d gotten from somewhere. He showed Kevin a view of Zevara. The Watch Captain was cycling out of the first floor, following the trail—but Drassi had lost the two in their carriage as well. Zevara was looking around wildly, peddling hard—
“What are you searching for, Coach Joseph?”
A voice in his ear. He spun—and Zemize, the Eye of Pallass, was there with Relc. She was speaking into a stone.
“If you saw which carriage it was, we can locate it for you.”
“Uh—uh—it was bright red with silver trim and I think the logo of some kind of shipping group on it! The logo was white, and it had silver wheels too! Fancy!”
Instantly, Zemize and a group of her people scanned the ground. Her eyes seemed to dilate hugely, and Joseph remembered—
Eyes of Pallass. He and Kevin turned to her, and it was the Drake who pointed.
“There. [Mark Target]. Is that the vehicle?”
Kevin peered dangerously far out from over the balcony, and Joseph gasped.
“Yes, yes! Zevara! Zevara, that one!”
He swore he saw her too, a tiny silver shape moving out of the city, but she couldn’t hear him!
“Does she have a speaking stone?”
Zemize asked coolly as she spoke into her own speaking stone. Relc growled.
“What do you think we are, rich? I’m going after her—Joseph, Kevin, signal her somehow!”
“Dude, we can’t shout that loud! Can she see your [Mark Target], Zemize?”
“Sadly, no. We’ll get them. Unless they enter another city’s territory…they might try to get out of our aegis.”
The Eye of Pallass was tense, and Joseph realized she was as helpless as he was. A Garuda leapt from the walls, but the carriage was moving fast—only Zevara was right there. And…
He stared down at the carriage, then put one foot up on the battlements. Joseph got his other foot up, and Kevin grabbed for him.
“Dude, are you crazy? You’ll fall!”
“Don’t let me. Hey, Kevin, isn’t there some kind of detective story with a guy who plays football?”
Joseph’s eyes never left the tiny dot glowing below him. Kevin peered down as Joseph felt at his bag of holding. He always had a few footballs there, autographed, so he could kick them around and give them as gifts.
“What’re you…oh.”
Agent Zemize blinked at him. Joseph was doing calculations in his head, trying to account for height and drop and the wind—it was insane. But it was the only thing he could do. He bounced the ball up on one foot and then took a breath.
“[Mighty Kick]. [Pinpoint Shot]—go!”
He jumped, kicked the ball as hard as he could, and fell. Kevin, Zemize, and three [Soldiers] had to catch him before he dropped off the walls. Joseph felt them pulling him up, but his eyes were locked on the falling orb of black and white.
“Come on…come on…”
 
——
 
Zevara was panting for air. The bicycle was whirring beneath her, and the ground was flashing by. She saw people staring at her—there was a siren going off in Pallass, but she was just focused on the vehicles ahead of her. Looking for one that stood out. Something—anything—
It fell like a divine revelation from above. Perhaps it was the Antinium’s faith. Or some impartial force of justice. Or just Joseph’s incredible aim.
A soccer ball flew down and hit a red coach like a falling meteor. The ball exploded with a shockwave that made the other vehicles swerve away, and the carriage rocked; its roof was dented in, and it slowed—Zevara biked alongside it and shouted.
“In the name of the Watch, halt!”
She caught sight of a wide-eyed Drake staring at her. Moass. He raised something in one claw. A wand.
Zevara reacted on instinct. She hit the front brakes, and her bicycle flipped forwards. But she had already let go. It catapulted her against the door of the carriage, and she grabbed the latch as a spell blasted through the glass over her head. Then she pulled—and the door swung open.
“Halt in the name of the law!”
“Are you insane?”
Moass gaped at her, and Hissl snarled. He had the reins, and he swung the carriage left, trying to knock her free. She saw Moass aim at her again.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
His arm locked in place, and she swung herself around the open door and grabbed the opening. Moass unfroze and tried to aim at her—she slapped the wand out of his grip. Then she was punching and breathing fire as he tried to kick her out of the carriage.
Hissl let go of the reins to join in. It was two on one, and they were trained operatives. But she was a [Guardswoman] and a [Watch Captain]—and they were fighting in the confined carriage, not a place the two Drakes were used to.
Moass was trying to draw another wand from his belt as he kicked at her. She grabbed one leg and brought her elbow down on his groin. Her boot caught Hissl in the face as she breathed fire on the two of them.
Fire, fire—and mostly smoke, honestly. She was panting, exhausted, but she had a lot of smoke.
The carriage rolled to a stop as smoke billowed from it. Then a coughing Drake emerged, blinded, tears streaking from his eyes. The other leapt from the carriage as Drassi, hanging out of a vehicle of her own, slowed.
A Watch Captain leapt out of the carriage and put a flying elbow in Moass’ back. She drew a sword as Hissl whirled. He aimed a wand at her, and she snapped.
“Drop it!”
He hesitated, and his face screwed up when he saw Drassi aiming the camera at him. Zevara took hold of the sword with both hands.
The Drake agent hesitated—and then a blur halted at his back. Spearmaster Relc, the Gecko of Liscor, aimed his spear at Hissl, and the agent sighed. He raised his hands overhead and dropped the wand.
“You’re making a mistake, you idiots! We’re on the good guys’ side! Do you even know what you’ve done?”
He hissed at Watch Captain Zevara as she knelt on Moass’ back and began to cuff him. Relc leaned on his spear and grinned.
“Listen to this idiot, Watch Captain. ‘Good guys’? Who talks like that? What’re you, Manus? Or Fissival?”
Watch Captain Zevara stood, a pair of cuffs in her hand. She was breathing hard as she strode over to Hissl in full view of the road, the walls of the City of Inventions rising behind her. She snapped at Hissl as she cuffed him.
“The only side I’m on is the law’s. By the authority of Liscor, you are under arrest! Now…”
She glanced up, and seemed to spot Drassi and her camera only then. The Watch Captain stared into the camera, and that was how most of Izril got to know Watch Captain Zevara.
 
——
 
“The only side I’m on is the law’s!”
Watch Captain Zevara put her head in her clawed hands. Then she put her fingers in her earholes. Sadly—most modern scrying orbs had a rewind function.
Watch Commander Venim played the moment she arrested two agents of a Walled City again. Then he cleared his throat.
“I believe Wistram Academy stated that the broadcast broke a record for people watching.”
“What? Impossible. What about the Goblin King or the King of Destruction or—Erin?”
He shrugged.
“Something to do with the fact that when you sell more scrying devices, there are more people to watch. The political fallout from this is, of course, enormous.”
He eyed her, and she recalled their conversations about far smaller events. Zevara slumped in her chair. It was hours later; she’d taken nearly an hour to get the two into Pallass. People had been cheering and coming out to be on camera, and Kevin and Joseph had been dancing on the walls. But the ebullience…
Well, it hadn’t actually faded. She knew she was in a world of trouble, but still—we got them. She steeled herself as Venim read some reports.
“Let me have it.”
“Where shall I begin? Aside from the fact that you insisted—on live television—that Liscor had jurisdiction and shouted down six Watch Captains—and Watch Commander Linsetl—each Walled City is pressing us for answers. None harder than Fissival, who denies that these are their people.”
“Oh, so it was Fissival? I would have bet Manus.”
Exactly who the agents were hadn’t really mattered in hindsight. Venim nodded.
“Their extensive use of magical items is a clue, but mostly…one of them, Moass, had a piece of correspondence on his person that referenced one of Fissival’s Three.”
“Really? That’s…amazingly sloppy.”
Zevara was shocked, and Venim nodded.
“Well, there’s going to be a lot of heads rolling. Proverbially, I think. The Eyes of Pallass are just as embarrassed for not knowing that Fissival’s agents were bypassing them. They claim jurisdiction over Liscor.”
“Really? Well, everyone’s denying it.”
Venim’s lips quirked slightly. He wasn’t as incandescent as she expected, but perhaps he’d entered a place after anger. One could only hope. She wondered if she was going to keep her rank after this.
“Normally, I’d agree with you, but Drassi is, at this moment, going over the entire event on air. She has a lot of witnesses, including Coach Joseph.”
“Not K—Randy?”
“The other one? No, I think just Coach Joseph—and a lot of [Guards] and witnesses in Liscor. I think I saw her out my window.”
He turned to gaze out of the office window, and Zevara swallowed.
“Arresting agents of a Walled City…probably has consequences.”
“Oh, I have multiple messages calling for you to be punished. And one job offer from Oteslia…and a commendation from Zeres…and from House Terland. Actually, I have quite a lot more messages, but my [Receptionist] can’t keep them all organized. Those were the big ones.”
It figured some of the Walled Cities liked another failing, but this was a bad look. Zevara exhaled.
“And how much damage have I done to the Watch’s position?”
Venim steepled his claws and stared at the ceiling.
“Well…you pulled rank on Watch Commander Linsetl and all of Pallass’ Watch. But I hated Linsetl, that uptight bastard. So I’m going to ignore that. And Fissival can shout, but they’re all the way on the east coast, so what are they going to do? Fire spells at us? They’d probably miss and hit the Bloodfields instead.”
She opened one eye and stared at him.
“You’re not serious. I just caused the biggest incident in the Watch’s history.”
“True, true. I was thinking about what to do. Obviously, this entire situation exposed flaws in how we operate, Zevara. We got heated…”
Venim got up and stared out the window. He only turned when the scrying orb, still softly playing the recording of her chase and the aftermath, switched to a new perspective.
It was of Watch Captain Zevara, dirty, sweaty, but triumphant, arguing with several [Senators] and said Watch Commander. Exactly what Hissl and Moass were stealing had been revealed, and more importantly, from whom.
“Antinium? That’s what all this fuss is about? Who cares what happens to those things?”
An appalled Senator Errif barked, clearly on the verge of confiscating the invaluable healing scrolls for Pallass, but Zevara had one foot on the Chest of Holding, and she was trying to shove her badge up Watch Commander Linsetl’s nose.
Which one was barking at the crowd and cameras? [Watch Captain] or [Guardswoman]? Zevara didn’t remember, but the words were probably from both.
“They’re not Antinium, they are citizens of Liscor. The only reason these two got away with it was because they were pretending to be agents of a Walled City who could do what they pleased. The only reason they got this far was because no one cared what happened to a minority species in the city! There will be equal justice for Antinium, Garuda, Humans, Gnolls, Selphids, or any species in my city. This is Liscor’s property, and anyone who puts their claws on it will be arrested! Sergeant Relc, kneecap anyone who gets close!”
Zevara watched Sergeant Relc jabbing with the butt of his spear at everyone until Venim switched the scrying orb off. He stared at it in his hands, turning it over, before glancing back at Zevara.
“You know, I respect what you do. I didn’t see the Antinium angle, but you weren’t wrong. It’s just that the realities of the job were fighting with what I felt was your approach. This being such a big story has swung public opinion with us. That matters. The fact that a Walled City was framing the north and robbing the Antinium…it could have raised tensions, and I’m not blind to that. Nor is anyone else.”
He pulled up a piece of paper.
“The Free Queen has expressed her personal gratitude to you and wishes you to be given ‘suitable commendation for the act of a [Watch Captain]’. I don’t believe she knows what your class is, but it’s startling. Lord Xitegen has also expressed his support.”
“Well, he would. He likes anything that affects Drakes or Goblins.”
“True—but he’s not blind to the fact that you did the right thing.”
Zevara shook her head.
“The Walled Cities are angry, Venim. Don’t sugartail it.”
“They may be angry, but Liscor caught them in the open with their pants down. That reversed the problem, Zevara. Don’t you get it? If you’d caught those two privately, I’d get an order tomorrow to let them go and apologize while we’re at it.”
Venim smiled at her.
“Instead, Fissival might have to issue a public apology! At the very least, someone’s paying for those two and their crimes! Do you know what the funniest part of all this is?”
He sat down, and she eyed him.
“No.”
“You know how Joseph said that ‘Moass’ was Noass’ brother? It turns out that really is his name.”
Venim chuckled. Zevara’s jaw dropped.
“No.”
“Hissl is a fake—but Moass was so convincingly bad that he kept it. And they are related. Though it’s more of siblings twice removed.”
She couldn’t help it. She threw her head back and laughed at that. Venim chuckled along too, then he stared out the window again.
“You went past me on this one, Zevara. Rightly so, but I’m the Watch Commander. My head wasn’t on the swivel, but something has to be done. We can’t have this go down twice.”
She braced herself. Here it was. She sat up, and Venim exhaled as he seated himself once more.
“In light of recent events, Watch Captain Zevara, I’m moving Sergeant Relc up to full time Watch Captain for south district.”
“I see.”
He nodded and fiddled with a piece of paper.
“I have a change of positions for you, if you’d like to sign…”
She stared numbly at the papers. You had to file papers…then her eyes narrowed.
“What’s this? This has my class wrong.”
“Does it? I was under the impression you were [Watch Captain] Zevara and [Guardswoman] Zevara. You never filed your second class, but I did see you were on the books twice.”
Venim innocently peered at Zevara, and she read.
“This…is promoting Senior Guardswoman Zevara. To—Special Investigator Zevara? What kind of rank is that?”
She’d never heard of it before. Venim coughed into one hand.
“It’s what it sounds like. Investigations. Deep crimes. Walled Cities have the position. It’s higher than Senior Guardswoman. Given your aptitudes, I think it’s the best fit for you. And it also gives you more authority over other members of the Watch. Though not other Watches. But there’s a proposal about that…”
“Wait, I’m not being fired?”
Zevara burst out, and Venim laughed at her.
“Zevara, if I fired you tomorrow, I’d probably be gone the next day! Liscor loves you! This has only made it worse. No, my problem was figuring out a role you fit, and I had a—visitor—who made some excellent suggestions. Yes indeed…”
Visitor? Zevara narrowed her eyes. She had an image of a tall half-Giant stooping to enter Venim’s office, but he just gave her an innocent gaze.
“Special Investigator I’ll take, but I got a taste of what happens if I leave my city. There’s no fixing that.”
“Funny you should mention that. Lord Xitegen Terland was so taken with your work, he issued a proposal after the broadcast. He’s suggesting you be given broad investigatory powers in Celum, Liscor, and Esthelm. And he’s asked other local cities to join in. Pallass shot the idea down instantly, but more than one city seems intrigued by the idea. Or rather, you.”
“Me?”
She gaped at him, and he nodded.
“A Watch Captain willing to chase down two agents of a Walled City can’t be intimidated. More than one city’s privately asked if you’d look into a crime in their areas. How about it, Watch Captain? You can always go back to managing your Watch House…and I expect you to help Watch Captain Relc, but I fear what will happen when you get bored.”
He smiled at her, and Zevara peered down at the sheet in front of her. She dipped her quill in ink, then pushed the sheet back.
“I need to do one thing before I agree, Watch Commander.”
“Oh? What’s that?”
Zevara got up slowly. She polished her badge on her uniform and gave him a crooked smile.
“All of this is predicated upon my doing an excellent job. But there’s just one problem. This case isn’t finished. I have one last task to do. Excuse me.”
She saluted and strode out of the office. Venim blinked at her back, then reached for a speaking stone.
“Excuse me? If I have news about Watch Captain Zevara, can I get an interview with Reporter Drassi?”
 
——
 
There was one last piece of business to take care of. And it wasn’t glamorous, and it wouldn’t make the news…but it was why she’d tried so hard in this case.
Zevara had already opened the Chest of Holding that Hissl and Moass had been taking to their city. It was indeed filled with countless objects that the two Drakes had stolen from Antinium.
They’d been cleverer than she thought, actually…they’d known some of it wasn’t real faith-infused items, but they’d taken a full sample, probably to test what this effect was. Already, the items were going back to the Antinium who’d lost their goods.
But something was missing. She’d personally interrogated Moass about it, and he’d told her to her face that they hadn’t stolen everything. Antinium gave chase. Or they had to ditch the items when the Watch noticed…a lot of it had been reclaimed when the other posed as Senior Guardsman Lens, but she’d had one specific item in mind.
That thing? It wasn’t worth stealing. And the Worker put up such a fuss we ditched it. Not worth the trouble.
How ironic. Zevara tracked down the place where Moass had directed her and searched. She had no Skills for this. Nothing but her feet, her intuition, and time.
All you had to do was put pieces together. Moass had ditched the doll the most expedient way possible. Rather than toss it in a gutter, he’d handed it off.
It took time and a map to plot a few likely paths, but Zevara was looking for someone. She asked people walking by and eventually got some locals who knew of a Drake girl that would walk around this neighborhood at this time.
Specifically—one who wouldn’t mind a one-eyed, one-legged Gnoll doll. Zevara got an address and knocked—then was told her quarry was somewhere else. She asked if she could go there now, and the address made her thunk her head against a wall a few times.
 
——
 
It was always, always The Wandering Inn. Though to be fair, Zevara would have never looked twice at the little Drake girl chasing around Mrsha and Ekirra after school.
“Miss Visma?”
Visma peered up from the latest doll in her collection bouncing around on her arm. It had a new eye, new leg, and she seemed very worried when Zevara knelt down…but when she heard the Watch Captain’s rather long story, she only hesitated a moment before giving Zevara the doll.
Ekirra and Mrsha’s jaws dropped. Visma the Hoarder giving anything away? She glared at them.
“It’s not mine! I’m not a [Thief]! If someone’s missing their precious doll, they have to have it.”
That was how Watch Captain Zevara ended up making the trip into the Free Hive. When Pawn saw what she had, he smiled and told her his prayers had been answered. She said she was a rather funny answer to an Antinium’s prayer, but he just replied that that was how faith worked.
She supposed it was very convenient for him…but when she approached the cell and tapped on the door, she saw a curled up Worker raise his head.
Carpenter Laikos said nothing for a long time as he inspected the doll, and Zevara explained how Visma had fixed it up.
“She apologizes if she messed anything up, and there are ways to, uh, resize the doll and repair it. If you—”
“Thank you.”
Laikos hugged his doll to his chest and sat there. He folded all four arms around the doll and trembled. Then he peeked up.
“Am I going to die for being an Aberration now?”
Pawn interceded, promising Laikos that no one would kill a Worker while he was around. Zevara just nodded along, hands in her pockets, as Laikos sat there, playing with the doll’s arms. Thanking her now and then.
Over and over as Antinium regarded her, and more came over to thank her for recovering something they’d lost.
She thought about it that night—well, she couldn’t sleep. She tossed and turned in her apartment, then got up and re-watched the news on a scrying orb she’d bought. Put her fingers in her earholes at the right times…
Just sat there. Thinking of Laikos, thinking of the future. Trying not to smile too hard. Zevara lay down at last, head spinning, and she knew that her city was still filthy, deep down. It had things like the Brothers that you couldn’t eradicate. Concessions and bad things and petty crimes…but somewhere out there there was a Worker sleeping with his doll in his arms.
“Ah. No wonder I’d never have made Watch Commander.”
She just could finally articulate why. Zevara slept, and the voice said—
 
[Class Change: Streetwise Guardswoman → Smokebreath Detective!]
[Smokebreath Detective Level 36!]
[Skill – Lungs: Ash Dragonbreath Obtained!]
[Skill – Greater Immunity: Smoke Obtained!]
[Skill – Investigation: Five Senses Maximized Obtained!]
[Skill – Mark the Quarry Obtained!]
[Skill – Investigation: Eidetic Memory Obtained!]
 
[Watch Captain of Integrity Level 38!]
[Skill – I Outrank You Obtained!]
[Skill – Summon Patrol Obtained!]
 
——
 
The rain was falling in Liscor’s streets, which weren’t as mean as they could be, but it was still suitably dark without magical lights. A few flames glowed from behind shuttered windows, but the city was largely quiet in the night.
All the good little boys and girls were tucked in. And the bastards were out—but even they sometimes didn’t know who the biggest one was. A wise person glanced over their shoulder. Or put their back against the walls.
It was the kind of mood that Kevin had been trying to evoke with Zevara. The hard-bitten, run-down, gritty mood of problems and people who solved them. Imperfect people, the kind who took down a shot of whiskey and smoked a cigar while narrating the mystery.
And a dame. You had to have a dame.
Kevin wasn’t the only one who liked noir, actually. He had a bunch of movies on his laptop, all stolen, and Erin had seen a few appropriate films herself; the [World’s Eye Theatre] could show you so much. Even memories. So Bird and his Antinium, the few, the free, had more culture in their antennae than the rest of the Hives, even Pawn’s Painted Antinium.
One of them stood, smoking on a puffer stick, as rain trickled down onto her armored shell. She spoke.
“It was a dark night, like all the others. Wet. But the waters were washing away a few sins of the city. Just a few. Everyone was celebrating the Watch Captain with a spine like mithril and never stopping to think of the Antinium who were victims in all this. Poor bugs with souls. Swept around in Liscor’s changing currents like the helpless, wriggling things they were. True, there was Pawn. They had a man down there with eyes on the sky, but he missed the small things. Like the dame.”
Her cigarette glowed as she puffed out more smoke. Noiraid, who had chosen her name because she loved the genre so much, listened as footsteps stopped in the rain. She continued narrating.
“I was standing on my corner, waiting as always, when the dame came by again. She was tall, and some would have called her beautiful, but she had a glint in her eye that spoke trouble. Me, I don’t like trouble, but a lass has got to make money somehow, and I don’t quite fancy it in ways that involve me lying on my back, one way or th’other. Still. Something told me she’d be pleased by how things shook out, even if it didn’t go according to plan.”
She glanced up as a woman appeared between the raindrops without them seeming to touch her. She had on a maid’s outfit, and she bowed slightly.
“Miss Noiraid?”
“That’s me, sweetheart. Job’s done. The Watch Captain’s all over the news. Your doing?”
“I can’t comment on that, Miss. My employer was very pleased at how things turned out. Spontaneously, in some cases.”
Noiraid nodded.
“Tell the Pink Lady that I always accept bonuses.”
The [Maid] offered her a briefcase. She could have done a bag of holding, but Noiraid had insisted. The Antinium cracked it open, and the [Maid] coughed.
“This gratitude and bonus includes another offer, if you are so interested, Miss Noiraid. Employment takes many forms.”
The Antinium Worker turned and ate her cigarette.
“Thanks. But I’m a lone operator. Besides, a gal’s gotta have some secrets.”
She blew a smoke ring up, and the [Maid] sighed. Noiraid walked through Liscor’s streets. Yes, indeed. A good job done, and bread in the jar. Gold in the suitcase.
This was her kind of day. She just hoped when the rains stopped that she had enough dark corners to pose under. Everyone else hated the rain. But it was too damn thematic.
After a while, she coughed out the cigarette butt. It was pretty hot.

10.45 L (2025-08-23)

When she opened her eyes, a girl understood. She rather did, just this one little insight. Without being so grandiose as to claim she was older or more mature, certainly not wiser—
Mrsha did think she got how Erin Solstice had felt after coming back from the dead. The head of red hair jerked out of her vision, and Mrsha pretended not to notice her and Nanette’s room door closing. She sat up, yawning, and a mess of brown hair ducked back down onto her pillow.
Nanette Weishart pretended to be asleep still, and Mrsha rubbed her eyes in her bed as the rain fell outside. She stared out the window a while and remembered seeing more souls than raindrops falling in the dark skies outside. Then she slid out of her covers and grabbed a toothbrush from the cup on her dresser.
She swabbed it in a half-empty jar of toothpaste and watched the rains fall as she began to brush.
I’m still buried in the Garden of Sanctuary. She had that intrusive thought like she’d had every single day. It felt like it needed to be acknowledged. Nanette coincidentally just woke up now and greeted her. The Gnoll girl held her mug out the open window and let the water trickling from the eaves pour into the cup. Then she drank, gargled, and spat.
A passing skeleton slowed as it hauled timber to the new foundations of the inn and peered up at her. She waved at it. For a second, she swore the skeleton almost let go of its burdens and waved back. Its arm twitched, and it gazed up at her. Add that to the pile of things to be concerned about, maybe. Mrsha didn’t know.
She was alive. The skies were rainy, but clear of death. There were fewer than ten people she loved on the imminent ‘may soon be dead’ list.
It was, all things considered, a pretty good day by her new standards.
 
——
 
Standards. You had to have them, but it seemed to Mrsha that everyone at The Wandering Inn had figured out how to deal with the impossible, like the dead coming back to life or horrific violence, after so many times of dealing with it.
You didn’t raise the standards—you lowered your own. Until you were grateful you were alive. That was what they’d done wrong with Erin, you see. Everyone had been both coddling her and expecting her to be the old Erin; they’d made her pretty miserable. And they’d all been pretending that worse wouldn’t come next.
Right now, it felt like everyone wasn’t under illusions. The inn still had a forcefield over the place where the common rooms met the hallway; Mrsha saw undead and [Necromancers] and a few curious guests trooping out of the blue barrier. It rippled like a bubble and let them enter and exit. What few guests there were; even the old regulars didn’t really come here. Not after what they’d seen. She hadn’t seen Menolit in six days, and he was one of the braver ones. Only the insane came here.
Adventurers, Antinium, Goblins, [Necromancers], Brothers—you know. The desperate, the lost, those without places. She thought it so appropriate.
“Breakfast! Hello, my little miracle.”
Lyonette hugged Mrsha and swung her around several times when the Gnoll came downstairs. She kept holding onto Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl held on for a while, long enough to surprise a [Spy] eating breakfast at one table. But neither one cared; when Mrsha was put down, she was shocked, nay, surprised, nay, shooketh to see breakfast.
“You always wanted to have another one, didn’t you? And Gire ate most of the first one you ever had. Well…here it is! The Archmage’s Well!”
This was an Erin-era recipe on the books that had been served in The Wandering Inn merely 16 times in its entire history. It was still on the full menus, but if you tried to order it, the wait staff would laugh at you, then call for Peggy, Rosencrantz, or Lyonette herself to ensure you really knew what you were getting into before purchasing it.
The list price: 8 silvers, 16 coppers. It had been the highest-priced item before cakes and other luxury goods like chocolates or pizza covered with decorative gemstones beat out the Archmage’s Well.
What was it? Well, the platter required Calescent and Elia to carry it out together. The concept was simple enough: you put pancakes together, the real heavy ones with structural consistency, and made a mountain of them. Then…you hollowed out the center. And you filled it with syrup.
WHIPPED CREAM FOR THE FIELDS OF ICE ON TOP. STRAWBERRIES LIKE TREES. EXTRA POINTS FOR FROSTING, BLUEBERRIES, AND OTHER CONDIMENTS. BUTTER? MAKE IT A RIVER.
The instructions were written by Erin and were in capitals near the end. Lyonette just stared at the Archmage’s Well with the mild horror of someone trying to process why she’d ever allowed it to be served once, let alone 17 times.
“Oh my. I’ve, uh, taken the liberty of inviting everyone to have a piece after we’re done—”
“The Well! The Well!”
Nanette and Mrsha were banging their utensils on the table. Guests and staff crowded around as Lyonette was handed a knife. She hesitated, trying to find a place to cut the monstrosity. When she did, syrup began dripping down the side of the pancakes.
“Enjoy, Mrsha!”
Not a word about Mrsha banging her utensils. Not a moment of hesitation as she gave Mrsha a piece. The girl ate one huge bite, rolled her eyes up in her head, and sat there a second. Then—she began to eat.
 
——
 
Three plates later, Mrsha couldn’t go for more. She wanted to, but one glance at Lyonette’s concerned face and she waved the plate away. Relc reached for a fourth plate.
“I can do it. I’m taking down the Well this time. C’mon, Valeterisa.”
Valeterisa had managed one and a half plates and peered queasily at her helpings. She turned.
“Montressa, apprentice—”
Montressa needn’t have ducked. With all the staff and guests, the Archmage’s Well was a mere foothill and easily devoured once Nanette and Mrsha had had their fill. Mrsha lay, groaning, as Lyonette dabbed syrup off her face. Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle patted her lips as she finished her strawberry-covered morsel.
“Vell, that vas a fine breakfast, Lyonette. And how do you feel, Miss Mrsha? Miss Nanette?”
“I think my stomach is going to explode. I might die.”
Nanette was trying to loosen her belt. She had on some blue suspenders—and no, Mrsha didn’t know where she’d gotten them—and a red t-shirt with an image of the Silver Killer on it. Lyonette didn’t comment on the attire. She just patted Mrsha’s stomach as the Gnoll girl held up a card.
Mother. I regret my wish slightly.
“And now you know better than to vant all your heart desires, no?”
Colfa offered Mrsha a pointed smile, and the girl groaned as Lyonette smiled at her friend. It was a lesson in disguise! Mrsha lay there until Lyonette reminded her.
“It’s time for school, Mrsha.”
Ser Dalimont already had Mrsha’s packed lunch ready and an umbrella. He was waiting at the door—Mrsha moaned her way after him. She only turned once to wave at her mother.
Wish me luck, Mother. I must multiply.
That was it. Nothing else grand in her day was planned. Truly. Mrsha staggered into line for the [Door of Portals], and Liska fast-tracked the Liscor group when she saw Ser Dalimont.
“Hey, Mrsha, you doing that school stuff? This Archmage’s Well is great.”
She was eating from her plate, then licking the syrup off as the door’s dial clicked around and people entered and exited, all without having to rise. Mrsha nodded at her, and Liska rolled her eyes.
“I’m glad I didn’t grow up in Liscor now. It sounds like it sucks.”
It’s sort of fun. If you want to learn stuff. Otherwise, it’s boring.
“Want to learn stuff. Hah. Ha. Hahaha—okay, everyone to Liscor, go ahead! It’s free from the inn. Anyone bound for other cities, enter! Remember, the fees are all written on the big signs, so if you can’t pay, get lost!”
Mrsha went to school. And the most exciting thing on her walk there was that she saw a bunch of election candidate posters. It looked like stiff competition in Market Street’s district against Krshia. Two other candidates: a Gnoll, Mister Retofur, who was the new Merchant’s Guild Guildmaster, and Miss Lassna, a Drake who’d emigrated here from the south.
Since she couldn’t vote, Mrsha went to school and found Ekirra bouncing a ball off his head and headbutting it to Kenva, who tried to return it. Visma had a new doll. And Mrsha…sat at her desk with her friends and stared out the window.
Daydreaming.
 
——
 
Only after Mrsha had left did Lyonette face Nanette.
“Nanette, your dress today…”
“Isn’t it interesting, Lyonette? I think it’s farmer-modern. And the Silver Killer t-shirt was being sold in Invrisil!”
“It’s dreadfully horrendous, Nanette. Well done.”
“Thank you, Lyonette!”
The two smiled at each other without rancor. As Mrsha had observed, they’d learned some lessons. One of the lessons Lyonette had learned was that she loved Nanette far more than she cared about how she dressed. Ielane had put better dressing by Nanette as a requirement…well, Nanette had her options to choose from and if that didn’t satisfy her mother, she wasn’t essential to Lyonette or the inn.
“My vord. People are wearing that image of Yvlon?”
Colfa eyed the screaming woman with arms like razors, seeming to be running off Nanette’s shirt. The witch pointed at it proudly.
“Lots of people like it! Mostly women. Not even young ones; I saw plenty of older ones buying it too.”
Lyonette snorted as she wiped at her mouth with a napkin.
“Do you plan on going shopping again today, Nanette? I intend to visit the Free Hive, but afterwards, I’d be delighted to go to Invrisil with you. Colfa’s coming with me to the Hive.”
“I shall be delighted to accompany you, if I do not hinder your style, Nanette.”
Colfa winked at the girl, and Nanette nodded after some thought.
“I’d love to visit the Hive. I did want to see what it was like—the only thing I’d like to do later is visit Hedault, if I may? He promised to give me a magic lesson.”
“Of course.”
And that was that. After a few minutes, Lyonette saw someone coming down the stairs. She waved.
“Kevin! You missed the Archmage’s Well.”
He covered his mouth as he came over. Kevin seemed rather hungover and not celebrating his new lease on life at this moment.
“That’s good, Lyonette. I think I’d hurl…I need a second hangover potion from Octavia. One didn’t do it.”
Lyonette eyed him, amused, as Nanette smiled and offered the remnants of her own plate.
“I’ve never heard of Octavia’s potions failing that badly.”
“Well—I was out drinking with Joseph, Rose, and Troy, celebrating me living, y’know? We were hitting stuff hard. Hey, Miss Colfa.”
“Kevin, if I drank your blood, how intoxicated would I be?”
She seemed amused, and Kevin held up a finger.
“Mostly hungover, I bet.”
They laughed at that. Kevin liked talking to a real Vampire, and she enjoyed not having to hide her nature around someone who knew the tropes. Come to that, Kevin was relaxed around them—it was when one of the Calanferians trotted over and bowed that he sat up.
“Your—Miss Lyonette, may we serve your party anything else? Mister Randy, would you care for anything this morning?”
“D’you have any hangover cures and, uh, bacon and coffee, please?”
Kevin waved a hand with a weak smile, and the man bowed and hurried to get it. Lyonette winced. She winced every time someone used his alias.
“Did you have to make your fake name Randy, Kevin?”
He scratched at one cheek, cringing.
“I’m gonna change it, I swear. It was really funny the first twenty times. [Second Life: A New Identity]…should I go with ‘Marty’?”
“No.”
The entire table chorused as one. Kevin sighed.
“I’ll workshop it. At least this way I don’t need a wig and face-paint or something weird like that. Or maybe I’ll just make it only work on spies and Roshal’s dudes.”
“They’ll find out who you are eventually, Kevin. All disguises fail in time.”
Nanette warned him, and the [Mechanic] scratched at his chin. An unfamiliar, steely look entered his eyes, and he took a gulp from a cup of water.
“Yeah. I guess they will. Well, Randy’s good enough for now. Hopefully that’s most of the people who want to celebrate me coming back from the dead.”
“I would assume it’s tiring after a while?”
Lyonette asked, not unkindly, and Kevin shook his head. He shrugged and regarded her, all seriousness.
“No, it’s just hard, Lyonette. It’s like dying twice, in a way. I see how much I mattered, and nothing I say is gonna undo how much it hurt—or keep it from cutting them open twice. Pelt and Hedault were some of the worst…Imani. I’d better do that after breakfast.”
He shook his head and almost made to rise. Then Lyonette did feel for him.
“Would it help if we came with you? We’re free today.”
Colfa and Nanette nodded, but Kevin just waved a hand, smiling in that familiar way. But older.
“No. It’s important for them and me. It’s just not easy. Not even for Troy. That’s…why it’s good to see. It shouldn’t be. Say, how good was the Archmage’s Well?”
“Pure sugar and pancake. Nanette and Mrsha liked it well enough.”
“Yuck. Thought so. That crazy Erin. Committing war and foodcrimes.”
Then Kevin sat back in his chair and stretched, and his sandy hair caught the light as he cracked his bones. Lyonette sat there, staring at another miracle. She savored it, and when she turned to Nanette and Colfa, neither one was in a hurry to rise.
That was the feeling in their bones. Not laziness, but just—a lack of restlessness. Deliberateness.
 
——
 
Lyonette prayed.
I don’t know how long this will last, or if we’ll even have a reprieve between this and the next event. But I hope we do.
She knelt on one knee on hard earth until she heard a voice speaking a benediction. Then, the simple wooden rows of seats creaked as people sat back on them.
Antinium save for three Humans and a Vampire. When Lyonette opened her eyes, the air in the Free Hive’s claustrophobic rooms seemed, for a moment, to shine like a vibrant sky overhead. But that was just the power of the speaker: Pawn.
He had on simple robes of white, and he carried no club, but the censer was the same. When she peered up at him, Lyonette imagined his eyes glowing white and two black pupils moving like pixels on a computer screen. She heard the thunder of hundreds of boots, the prayers of the faithful going to war—but she forced herself to listen to his soft voice and the silent prayers of the Antinium here.
It was different. So was his prayer.
“…and when you rise, know that we are one step closer to Heaven, both here and afterwards. Remember, Mottleshell’s Pet Café is a limited venue, and we must be content to wait and not crowd the animals. If it succeeds financially, we may hope for more, but do not spend all of your allotted income on pet cafés. Also, do be careful not to misplace your possessions; lost or stolen items are on the rise, and we must be vigilant with what we are given. Check market prices before buying from non-Antinium vendors, for being duped is for suckers, and we should not be suckers. Amen.”
It was such a simple way to end his sermon, but it was largely…practical. That was what shocked Lyonette. He motioned to her.
“And now our guests will offer this congregation prayerful, or perhaps simply musical, song. Lyonette, Miss Colfa, and Witch Nanette.”
Everyone turned to her, and Lyonette got up. Pawn was standing with Yellow Splatters and some of his [Acolytes] and [Priests]. She whispered to him as she stood with the other two.
“Fair market prices and pet cafés, Pawn? Is this what you pray for?”
His antennae twitched at her as his mandibles lifted.
“What else should one pray for, Miss Lyonette? Not everyone is fighting for their lives every day. A prayer for great and impossible things and a prayer for mundane needs is a good balance, I find.”
She nodded, then took a breath and smiled at the disconcerting rows of Soldiers, Workers, Painted Antinium, and even guest-Antinium from other Hives.
“Good morning! I’m Lyonette, from The Wandering Inn, and I’m delighted to lead this congregation in song. The three of us will sing, and if you are so inclined, please, join in. We have some copies of the lyrics…”
Antinium were staring at the sheets of paper in their hands, and when Lyonette nudged Colfa, the Vampiress licked her lips nervously. Possibly, she hadn’t thought singing for an Antinium congregation was scarier than just going into the Free Hive. But it was hard to fill the vast chamber with their three voices alone…
“Sing like we’re just practicing together. You help too, Ushar.”
The Thronebearer jumped as Lyonette glanced over her shoulder. Pawn nodded.
“We shall sing too, if we are not too off-key. You should take the first verse to show them how it is done, Lyonette.”
She nodded and closed her eyes. It wasn’t an Earth-song they sung, though there was plenty of religious music, apparently. This was just one that Colfa had taught Lyonette.
 
“I have roamed from every shore…
To Giant’s peaks, from the Kraken’s nests…”
Seeking a place to call my home.
To call my rest…”
 
It was a song that they sang up in Reizmelt called Izril’s Homecoming. A sentimental song about the continent that Lyonette had heard Barelle the Bard once play when he’d visited Calanfer’s courts.
The version Colfa had taught her was different from the one Barelle had played, and Nanette knew six different lyrics. Even the rhythm changed, apparently, but most versions of the song were very pleasing to the ear.
The three women sang slowly to start, and then their crooning voices deepened. Colfa’s was the lowest, and she could project her voice in the chamber, filling it; by contrast, Lyonette might lack for volume, but she had mastered pitch and control thanks to Ielane insisting all [Princesses] learn to sing for anthems. Nanette had the highest voice, which could effortlessly hit notes that Colfa and Lyonette struggled with.
At first, Lyonette feared that no one but Pawn and the priests would join in, and they weren’t…the best singers. Even Yellow Splatters, gifted with an amazing voice, didn’t have any real experience with singing. The congregation before them was silent—too nervous to join in, and the song faltered slightly with dissonance.
Then—someone stood. And began clapping their hands and sang. Sang with such force and enthusiasm that it outstripped the three women!
Singy, the Antinium who had sung with the Yoldenites, was a dedicated [Singer], and he drew other Antinium upwards like a wave, copying him. Then—they were joined by another female voice, and the uncertain voices became as strong as any choir in a moment. Lyonette gasped and almost lost her own place—
Bird. The [Queen]’s eyes shone as she linked with the Antinium choir, and they sang the lyrics as if they all had ten levels in the [Singer] class.
Nearly four hundred voices all singing Izril’s Homecoming nearly took Lyonette’s breath away. It wasn’t just the numbers, but the coordination and the reverberations of the room, which gave the song a resonance she’d never dreamed of. A style unique to her ears that made her heart beat faster and take notice.
When the last lyrics stopped echoing in the cavern, there was a long, respectful silence. She had never heard so many people singing, save for Calanfer’s national anthem during public events—and that was second-nature to her. Boring.
But this? She met Colfa’s gaze, and they shared the same thought. The Vampire leaned over.
“We’ve got to get a choir. And invite Bird and Singy.”
Lyonette just nodded in reply.
 
——
 
“Another kind of wonder was given to us today. That of music. Let that be a lesson to all, including myself. Thank you for attending—if anyone would like scraps of bread, please line up here. Thank you.”
Pawn dismissed the congregation, then faced Lyonette. He hugged her, and she smiled as Pawn gazed from her to Colfa.
“Lyonette, your presence here is extremely welcome. I have been wanting to visit ever since the Goblin King event, but Bird kept ordering me not to. It was highly distressing, but he…she said I would, and I quote, ‘freak everyone out’.”
His mandibles clacked in displeasure, and Lyonette sighed.
“Oh, Pawn, it’s not your fault.”
“Except that it very much is.”
Bird muttered as she wandered past them, staring around the Free Antinium’s barracks. Pawn glowered at her, and Lyonette sighed.
“We had a Solstice Event.”
“Oh no. I had presumed as much. But why not send for me? We could have helped!”
“We—well, for one, the Free Antinium would not have done much good for this one, Pawn.”
“What? Even without the 7th Hive or the [Crusaders], we would have made a difference!”
Yellow Splatters barked, hurt, and Lyonette shook her head.
“Not this time. And—technically—you were there, Pawn. You may wish to sit down.”
 
——
 
It took a long time to relate even an abridged version of the events to Pawn, but Nanette helped, being one of the people with the best insights into what Mrsha had done.
Lyonette rather feared that Pawn’s mandibles would fall off by the end—the other Antinium were equally astonished. Yellow Splatters kept protesting.
“Me? Condemned to Hell? Then resurrected by Erin, who was a Goddess?”
“Have you been eating suspect mushrooms grown by Palt, Lyonette?”
Pawn asked after a while, and Lyonette shook her head, smiling.
“I wish, Pawn. Mushrooms do not become Goblin Kings.”
“They do in one of the stories about space that Kevin told the Kevin-Antinium. But if that is the only other explanation that is logical…then this happened. I was a Level 60+ monster. With glowing eyes.”
“Very scary, but also sort of cool. You kept attacking Roshal, which was good. If strategically unsound!”
Nanette added. Lyonette feared that Pawn would take it badly or not believe her, but to her surprise, he just nodded.
“I see. That explains much. Yellow Splatters, begin a sweep.”
“At once, Pawn.”
“Hmm? For what?”
Lyonette sat up, and Pawn explained.
“There have been odd incidents among the Antinium of late. Some are…lazy? Or perhaps even committing crimes. Byproducts of our exposure to Liscorian culture. Our version of Aberrations, in a sense. But there were also other oddities—there were several Antinium who appeared to be Painted Antinium, but spoke oddly to my flock and the rest of the Antinium. They preached of a ‘Goddess’ and a ‘failed Prophet’. When I attempted to question them, they fled.”
Lyonette felt her stomach do a tiny hop. No more, really. She sighed.
“That…is not very surprising. Don’t treat them harshly, please? But don’t let them—influence you.”
“It sounds as if I should not, Lyonette. Fear not; we are all Antinium and thus reasonable people.”
A few weeks ago that would have been so much more reassuring. Lyonette smiled at Pawn, and he tried to urge her to tour the rest of the Hive.
“I can’t stay all day, Pawn. I promised I’d take Nanette shopping.”
“Oh, I see.”
Pawn grew visibly disappointed, and an Antinium behind him desperately started shuffling cards in their hands. Pawn took a step back to read a new card offered to him. Nanette, who’d edged around the group to see what was written, mouthed at Lyonette. She sighed.
“Pawn, are you attempting to make a date of this?”
The [Princess] raised her brows, and Pawn froze.
“No. I am certainly not attempting to re-woo you.”
“Nor is it a plan he and his Free Antinium spend too much time talking about.”
Bird commented as she passed by with a sample of free spicy donuts from the inn for any Antinium. This time, Pawn actually kicked at her; she flutter-hopped over his foot. Lyonette smiled ruefully.
“Not the best moment, Pawn.”
“Ah, because of the death and destruction. I see.”
His antennae drooped, and she half shook her head.
“That—and also because your older self and I had some rather unpleasant encounters. I think he was trying to be charming to me, but a bridge of about a decade’s time did not make me like what I saw. Forgive me—but I will visit again.”
She smiled again, and he sighed and hugged her before she went. When the [Princess] had gracefully exited, Pawn punched his knee lightly.
“Pawn. Of all the obstacles we anticipated in our simulations, I never expected it to be that fool. Curses! What did he do?”
He went to join Yellow Splatter’s hunt for the mysterious future-Antinium, partly in search of answers and to analyze their odd Erin-centric faith…but mostly to figure out how the other Pawn had gotten so lucky and what the hell he’d done to this Lyonette.
 
——
 
Then it was Lyonette and Nanette together, having a mother-daughter time. Well, and Colfa too and Dame Ushar, and Vaulont was on surveillance, and there were a few Calanferian servants in the mix as well, and Lyonette wouldn’t have been surprised if there were spies following her at a great distance, but in practice, it was just Lyonette and Nanette.
Different from Mrsha and Lyonette. Lyonette had called Nanette her daughter, and the witch-girl had accepted, but it was a compact between them. Califor would always be Nanette’s mother as well, and Lyonette wouldn’t interfere with that. But right now, they both needed each other, and they needed to figure out what that was like.
“So…how do you shop for clothing? We have an unlimited budget, Nanette. Let’s get something. Shall we stop at that store and make some more outfits to stab the eye? I’ll help.”
It was part of Lyonette’s new attitude towards things. Which, like the Archmage’s Well, was to let Mrsha and Nanette do what they wanted. Not everything, but if it was something like this? Why the heck not?
“You can’t just walk into a shop and do it deliberately, Lyonette. It’s got to be…spontaneous. You walk around new streets, and then you get what catches your eye.”
“With no eye towards color-coordination?”
Colfa interjected quizzically. Nanette was getting fewer looks in her suspender-t-shirt combo than Lyonette thought was appropriate. The witch girl smiled.
“With tons of eyes, Miss Colfa! You just don’t have to bow to what people think is proper.”
“Oh, I see. We’re shopping like [Witches].”
Lyonette pieced it together, and Nanette grinned. So they were off.
 
——
 
The first thing they collected was a flower dress on sale. Not a dress with floral prints, oh no. Rather, a skirt and upper dress that was made of huge petals, like a flower, dyed such that you appeared to be a giant daffodil with a grass skirt. Lyonette held it up, utterly entranced by this heinous crime against cloth.
“Who made this?”
Even in Invrisil, you had to ask. The pawn shop owner said one word.
“[Druid].”
“And they are not wearing this beautiful garment because…?”
Colfa eyed the clothing, and the shop owner uttered a mirthless laugh.
“I heard they walked by an Ashfire Bee nest with it on.”
“Ah, well, we’ll take it, if it fits, Nanette?”
The girl propped her hands on her hips, thinking hard.
“Of course the answer is yes. But who should wear it? It’s rather your size, Lyonette. We could take it for me, but maybe we can do something with that skirt!”
“Oh, joy…”
Despite herself, Lyonette got into the spirit of things. The next thing she bought were some gold bangles for ankles that were far too large; they jangled as Nanette tried to walk with them, then she shoved them onto her arms.
Colfa found a pirate’s tricorne hat. It was far too stylish to fit Nanette’s criteria, but Colfa insisted on wearing it and adopted a swagger as she walked.
Funnily, Colfa was the best actress of the three by far, since she’d had to disguise herself so long. After two more stores, someone came up to her asking if she was a [Captain] or part of a crew with a ship at any harbor. She told them her ship was booked up in a fairly convincing accent.
Lyonette, meanwhile, had noticed a bit too many stares coming her way, and after she saw Dame Ushar bodyblock the third person in sight, she motioned the Thronebearer over.
“Ushar, why is everyone staring at me?”
“I believe they’re realizing who you are, Princess. Your mother has taken off some of the obfuscation of your identity in Calanfer, and with this latest incident…”
Ushar grimaced, and so did Lyonette. Well, it hardly mattered…then her eyes fell on the dreadful skirt Nanette had bought her, and she had a horrific idea.
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes later, Lyonette, wearing her floral dress and elkhide legging jeans, strode after Nanette. She had black hair and a scar down one cheek, thanks to Dame Ushar’s work with some hair dye and a makeup kit.
“How did you have that just lying around?”
Ushar gave Nanette an innocent look.
“My budget allowed for it, Miss Nanette. We could dye your hair if you wanted.”
“I’ll go redheaded, then! No, wait, make it a natural orange!”
Colfa refused to change her hair, even though Ushar assured her it would wash out easily. She did buy more clothing, though, since Lyonette was paying for everything, or rather, the inn’s rather vast budget was.
By the time they were two hours in, a [Pirate Captain], a [Druid], and a disaster of fashion were ready for lunch. Nothing would do but for Lyonette to take them to a fancy restaurant.
They might not have reservations, and they looked a fright, but Dame Ushar’s armor opened a lot of doors—as did handing gold to the server in charge. They found themselves eating at a restaurant named Palatable Cuisine, which was overly fancy and had that ostentatious fondness for Terandrian foods because that was ‘high-class’.
“I’ll share a bloody steak with you, Colfa, and we’ll have a curlwrap leaf salad…Nanette?”
“I would like more bread with butter!”
Nanette was greedily eating some dark Noelictan Ashwheat bread. She only ate two small loaves of it, and Lyonette and Colfa actually managed half the steak; Dame Ushar was only too happy to take custody of the other half for herself.
“The real reason I wanted to come here was for this. Aha!”
The dessert menu made Nanette sit up. It was miniature jello and sugar creations! You could request anything you wanted, and the chef, a dedicated expert in desserts, would come out and serve it to you. But that wasn’t the amazing thing.
“Slimes! Are you from Onononno, sir?”
Nanette clapped her hands as a tiny slime rolled out, balancing a platter on its body, and she picked up a soldier waving a sword, made of blown sugar like glass. The [Chef] smiled, but wanly.
“That’s correct, Miss. I’m a [Slime Chef de Patisserie].”
“You must be the hit of the city. This is delicious.”
Lyonette complimented him, and the man ducked his head.
“Oh, well, I’m hardly that famous, Miss. And I’m told it does lose its charm in time…”
He glanced back at the kitchens, and she detected his withheld sigh, but she let the matter be—she was with Nanette and Colfa, and after the fun little sweets, they had passed into midday quite splendidly.
 
——
 
“Well, what shall we do now, Nanette?”
“Hedault! I should bring him a gift.”
“Oh, right.”
Lyonette had to escort Nanette to Hedault, who was indeed pleased to see she’d come precisely on time, and he even accepted a small gift of fruits with a nod. Lyonette waved at an additional guard who’d come to make sure Nanette was safe during her studies: Elia.
That left her and Colfa, but the Vampiress checked the time and sighed.
“I must get back to the farm, Lyonette. Fun as this is, Himilt will do all the chores alone without me. Dinner tonight? I’ll bring Himilt.”
“Please do! I’ll get Calescent to make something appropriate.”
Lyonette smiled, and then she was alone. She stretched and remarked to Ushar as the Thronebearer fell in beside her.
“Vaulont, you can appear if you feel the need. That went well. Mrsha and Nanette loved the surprise breakfast, and I think Nanette enjoyed that, right, Ushar?”
“I think so, Lyonette. And Mrsha is doing well in class, Dalimont reports.”
Lyonette nodded. This day had no problems. None. She had managed to hold down a few weeks now with no incidents, no drama, just good and pleasant things, even if slightly superficial.
She strolled along Invrisil’s streets, glancing right and left at her world, her timeline, with two daughters who were alive and an inn mostly intact. Grateful to be alive. Grateful for peace, however temporary. Grateful…
It was Vaulont the Ash who spoke tentatively. He was still a silent figure, but he’d gotten a crash-course in what The Wandering Inn meant, and he hadn’t run, even after Lyonette had given him all the bonuses he deserved. So perhaps he was being sucked into this place that made heroes or statues of people. If so…he didn’t appear afraid. Brave man. Desperate man.
Perhaps, just a lonely man.
“You look like some of my employers before they ordered me to assassinate an entire family, Miss Lyonette.”
She and Ushar swung around, and Vaulont stopped, then clarified the comment.
“Too pleasant. Like you’re holding in an explosion.”
“What sort of monsters—you worked for the Reinharts, didn’t you?”
He nodded.
“Before Magnolia Reinhart took power.”
Lyonette went striding along the streets. A few passersby nodded to her warily.
“[Druid], Miss Knight.”
“Lady Druid.”
“I don’t beat my dogs, I swear! Don’t hit me!”
She ignored that. Lyonette searched her heart for a core of killing rage, and if it was there…she shook her head.
“I’m not bursting with rage, Vaulont. If anything, I think I’m genuinely enjoying this kind of day. But every moment I do…hah. Is this how Mrsha felt? I can’t stand here under the gentle sun and just savor living. Mrsha can, and she must, because I think she’s seen what she can do. But I cannot. Nanette is practicing. But I…am restless.”
He nodded.
“Aside from the sun, I understand. What do you will?”
“I will myself hitting Level 40. That I have not already is likely because I accomplished few great deeds of my own during the Palace of Fates. Or that I reacted instead of made my own plans. It’s time. I will many things, Vaulont. But mostly, I will that these peaceful days continue. For myself and all those who deserve them.”
The Level 39 [Princess] spoke softly. Ushar shivered and rolled her shoulders, and the Vampire waited. Lyonette turned to him.
“The Horns. Erin. Ryoka. Most of them are out of my reach. But there’s someone I almost forgot during the Palace of Fates. My warning has come and gone. Perhaps she never belonged to this inn as strongly, but she also survived several life-or-death moments. We owe her more than idle threats. Tell me, Vaulont. How well do you know Tessa, Shriekblade?”
His brows rose, and he smiled. Somewhere, a listening force made a note in its files and began to prepare for a level-up. Exciting. It was beyond time. Vaulont spoke quietly.
“I know she’s supposed to be as good as an [Assassin] in many ways, madder than a Face. Likely to stab the hand that feeds her. I also know the Healer of Tenbault’s only good for a single spell. She can’t help my people; her spell kills or maims us. So I’d be delighted to do something, but I’d be wary of Shriekblade being wild…and the Healer’s pet dog. He barks loud.”
“Her spell hurts you?”
Lyonette was astonished. Vaulont shrugged.
“Most healing magic does, apparently. We usually don’t need it. If Shriekblade were coming willingly, we could evade Crowdcaller Merdon and his team easily. But if she wanted to, she’d leave the Healer herself. So like as not, you’d have to persuade her or get her by force.”
“And you couldn’t do it yourself?”
“Immobilize her without cutting a limb off? That’s a tall order for a Named-rank. I might be able to do it.”
Lyonette nodded, calm now, and her mind felt, if not free, then happy enough with the burdens it took on.
“Then we shall need a plan. I doubt Tessa has received my missives; she never replied. Or if she’s ignoring me…how fast can you reach Tenbault?”
He offered her a sliver of a smile.
“If I hurry, one night.”
She liked that. This was a day of…responsibilities, Lyonette decided. Obligations. Promises made and kept.
She was, of course, wrong. This was a day of changes. Small and large.
 
——
 
There was a leak in The Wandering Inn when Lyonette got back. Not a bad one—but inevitable. The Goblin King’s rampage through the common room and hallway had done extensive damage to the inn, and it was true that Valeterisa and Montressa had put up a magical barrier to contain the rain and let the inn operate as normal.
But still—damage was damage. There were cracks in the foundation and structure that Hexel had taken one look at and shaken his head.
“Too much for me to take on unless you want me to start from the ground up. I’m just grateful our new foundations were spared. Anything that doesn’t fall over in the next month should just be patched. I’ll try to have the new inn’s first floor at least livable by the end of the month.”
His workers and the undead of Rheirgest were swarming over the new construction site, but it meant that The Wandering Inn was on its own for problems. Like leaking water and insanity.
Lyonette didn’t realize there was a problem with insanity—she was eying the water dripping from a broken beam that led up to a roof. One of the Calanferian servants had put a bucket out, but it was annoying.
“What’s that about insanity?”
“Oh, we’ve got that covered, Miss Lyonette!”
The [Princess] turned, and a cheerful Captain Earlia waved at a wall. She had a blindfold on. Lyonette opened her mouth as the Silver-rank Captain walked into a table and swore.
“Fuck. Hey, lead me to the hallway, you idiots!”
Her team obligingly spun her around, and Lyonette realized what it was.
“Oh no. Our trapped hallway?”
It was filled with the Runes of Insanity she’d bought! They hadn’t been deployed against the Goblin King since he’d come in the wrong way, but if any were exposed…Earlia cheerfully called out.
“It’s actually putting ‘em back, Miss Lyonette. That guy blew pieces all over when he left. We just have to put them in and cover them. Won’t take more than an hour if we can close it down?”
“Of course. Can someone lock the door to the portal room? No, wait, that won’t work…”
Mrsha had to come back from school, and they had guests. Then a hand rose.
“Miss Lyonette, we could put up a curtain and sign and redirect anyone around to enter the inn from the outside!”
It was Xinthe who offered a very practical solution. Peggy and Rosencrantz turned; the Worker had his hand up too, and they seemed surprised to be upstaged. Lyonette was just grateful for the support. She smiled at the young woman.
“That’s a good idea, Xinthe. Please, do that. Rosencrantz, can your Workers patch the leaks?”
“Of course, Lyonette. We will get on it.”
“That leaves Peggy’s team for serving the inn. Let’s get to it!”
The group broke up, and the Calanferians swept into action, finding cloth for the curtain and assigning people to keep anyone away from the dangerous hallway as the Goblins covered the floor and Antinium tackled the leak. Only a fraction of each group was on active duty; they rotated out through the day, which kept work a lot easier on the staff now it wasn’t a skeleton crew.
However, there was a definite note of rivalry between Xinthe and her Calanferian team and the Goblins and Antinium. The two non-Human species hadn’t realized it at first, but it was getting more obvious. Of course it was.
They’d been sent by Eternal Calanfer to help the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Xinthe and the servants had been chosen for both espionage and their ability to be good serving staff, and they intended to win Princess Lyonette’s favor.
Rather smugly, they accomplished their task in eight minutes with a sign, warders, and even went out to empty the outhouses and bring refreshments to the…[Necromancers]…working outside. But they did it and marched back inside in short order.
When they came in, they found Lyonette scrubbing a table with a cleaning cloth as Asgra and Inkpaper worked on two more. Instantly, Xinthe tried to grab the cloth, but Lyonette just blinked and recoiled.
“Your H—Miss Lyonette, what are you doing?”
“Er, working, Xinthe.”
The aghast servants stared at Lyonette as she eyed a stubborn stain on the table and picked at it. Then bent under the table.
“Who is leaving gum here? I swear, it’s one of the regulars. When I find who it is…”
“I bet it’s Ekirra. He chews.”
Asgra volunteered. Lyonette gave her a shocked look.
“He’s not that rude, Asgra! Well, poo.”
To their horror, she not only used foul language, but she began picking at the calcified gum—with her fingernails! Like any [Barmaid] might!
“Miss Lyonette, allow us to take this over for you.”
Xinthe practically tried to shove Lyonette aside, but the [Princess] just frowned at her.
“I can work, Xinthe. You check on Calescent in the kitchen, would you? And the undead.”
“W-we’ve attended to the villagers of Rheirgest, but Miss Lyonette, your fingers!”
Lyonette tossed the offending piece of gum onto the table. She eyed her fingers, which were clean enough, and shrugged as she dipped them in the cleaning water. She wore a sardonic look of amusement, now.
“You didn’t see me working during the…palace incident, but I do perform tasks, Xinthe. You must get used to that. Though I’m glad not to be hammering wood into place in the rain.”
She shuddered as she glanced up at the leak, which was already slowing. The Calanferians just gazed at her in astonishment. They’d known she was running the inn, but they’d assumed she was just managing it. To see her working like one of them was—
Something. It disturbed them. In turn, they began trying to preempt work for Lyonette, scrambling to clean tables and bus dishes in a way that was meant to be helpful.
In truth, it was really annoying for the [Princess].
Lyonette had known she’d have issues when hiring more staff, but offending the sensibilities of Calanferian commonfolk was not on her list of concerns. After the second time she made a move for some dishes she thought could be bussed or a guest waiting for an order and a [Servant] almost threw themselves on the problem, she pulled Xinthe aside to have a conversation about it.
“Xinthe, I am going to work. If your people cannot behave themselves around me, I’ll have to assign them to jobs where I am not present. Something I don’t believe you are keen on, and I need their help. Peggy, rotate more Goblins in from the upper floors, would you? Keep a few of the Calanferian staff below.”
“You got it, Boss-Chief.”
Peggy saluted and reduced the number of Calanferians on the ground floor, which meant they were now too busy to interrupt Lyonette. And the other Goblins were only too happy to let Lyonette help with their work. Xinthe just gazed at Lyonette’s back as the [Princess] sighed.
She was going to get a headache. But this was a mild problem! Mild—until Nanette ran up in the rain.
“Lyonette! Can you come outside? The villagers of Rheirgest have an undead problem!”
Lyonette’s head snapped around.
“I thought Xinthe checked on them?”
Then she realized the Calanferians had fed the [Necromancers], but probably stayed away from the undead. She sighed and went outside.
These were the problems of a [Princess] on days when the world didn’t end. Minor, she thought, expecting to find a visitor complaining about the undead. Instead, she found—an oddity. Extra skeletons? She went to have a word with Master Elosaith. Then came the…
Tax collector incident.
 
——
 
The entire rather embarrassing altercation with [Tax Collector] Geilsten was witnessed by none other than Captain Zevara, and Lyonette truly regretted how it had gone down.
Not the outcome, perhaps! Even as she watched the Drake running away, Lyonette didn’t actually see how it could have gone any other way. No city like Liscor would just grant The Wandering Inn a waiver on all its taxes without at least knowing what they stood to lose. And with Geillsten’s abilities…
No, we can’t let it happen. She still felt bad—not for him, but for Zevara and the trouble this would bring. But there was some vindictive pleasure in reminding Liscor that they hadn’t supported the inn when it mattered most, and there were consequences for that!
A real Erin moment in short, and Lyonette felt properly embarrassed and triumphant at once. She wondered whether Erin felt like that?
What didn’t help was the attitude of Rheirgest’s villagers or Arrema.
“All hail Queen Lyonette, bane of [Tax Collectors], ruler of the undead. Hip hip—hooray. Hip hip—”
The [Princess] really wished they’d stop cheering her. She strode back to the inn, bracing herself for the inevitable counter attack once the Council heard of this one. Her day was suddenly very busy…so much for relaxation.
“Arrema, stop that. All hands on deck! We have a small incident—I need refreshments, a double-layer of obfuscators—Ishkr, the Council and Watch Commander Venim should be allowed through, but not any flunkies, busybodies, or…”
“Lookie-loos?”
Asgra suggested as the staff smiled with amusement. Lyonette gave her an incredulous look.
“What on earth is a…yes, those. Ushar, how much ammunition do we have to counter anything the Council tries to pressure me with?”
“I have a file right here, Your Highness.”
Ushar handed Lyonette a little file that Lyonette had written up herself, listing the various favors—and debts—that Liscor and the inn had towards each other.
She was actually quite prepared for something like this. Which was from her Calanferian training. But the irony was that the new Calanferian staff, who were perfect for this moment, were again falling behind Antinium.
Xinthe, the unofficial leader of the Calanferian servants, asked Ishkr.
“Excuse me, Head Server Ishkr, what is a ‘double-layer of obfuscators’?”
The term sounded sort of familiar; her training in Calanfer’s palace had taught her how to interrupt and trip up people in small ways. Ishkr was already grabbing chairs and tables and shoving them into place in the open-air common room.
“It’s an inn-term. Peggy’s in charge of that.”
The Hobgoblin? Any skepticism Xinthe had was erased when she saw Peggy marshalling her troops. And how Ishkr was setting up the table with Rosencrantz and the Antinium. He was placing the tables and chairs in a deceptively tight-knit pattern on the outskirts of the common room, such that if you filled them, it’d be actually really hard to weave through the chairs and seated people towards the inner section. It went against any good seating arrangements…unless that was the point—while the inner tables allowed the staff to easily navigate on the inside.
Rather like a moat of guests and a keep of tables of people you actually wanted to talk to. As for ‘obfuscators’, one of them was just Asgra. With a menu.
“Hello sir or madam. Is you sit down there. We have specials on the menu.”
She popped up, beaming, as the first [Spy] tried to weave through the chairs towards a table where the woman could eavesdrop on Lyonette, who was reading from her files. The woman protested.
“Er, thank you, but I’d love to sit somewhere over…”
“Hello sir or madam, you is please sit there. I not understand fancy words.”
“Uh—I—uh—I sit there. Please? I pay. Eat there?”
The poor [Spy] was new. Asgra stared up at her with big, innocent, crimson eyes, and the nervous [Spy] saw the Cave Goblin tilt her head.
“Hello sir or madam, you is sit there. You want menu? Or eat rocks? I can get. Is plenty. Very good. You probably not die.”
She was one ‘obfuscator’ who worked in the time-honored tradition of Erin Solstice. Each one had their own style, and it was a lot more fun than just waiting tables; Gothica had been a great one in her short time at the inn. There were more advanced compatriots as well; Ishkr and the Thronebearers were a final line of defense against anyone who Lyonette didn’t have time for.
Then came the guests, as ever. Spies…which were like 30% of the clientele, really, upset people from Liscor, and the onlookers who always came by to get the freshest gossip. The worst part, Xinthe realized, was that the staff knew a lot of them.
A Gnoll came bounding out the doors from Pallass. With a big ‘Channel 2’ hat on her head. She had a jacket on with a logo for Drassi’s channel and a notepad. She slid into a seat in the inner ring without anyone stopping her.
“Hey, everyone! Where’s the fire? Drassi’s [Journalistic Instincts] were tingling, so she sent me over.”
“Rubri! How are you? You want a sandwich and coffee?”
Asgra beamed and stopped harassing her [Spy] as the Gnoll, one of Drassi’s more promising [Reporters], sniffed the air.
“I can have brunch. Ooh, I love what you’ve done with the front of the inn. That hole was getting super depressing—I might need a [Magic Picture] of it. So what is this, camera-worthy or just newspaper?”
“Eh, probably just newspaper. We quit Liscor. No more taxes.”
Rubri began taking notes as food and coffee appeared for her, and across from her, Rosencrantz was welcoming in a Drowned Man and six others.
“Hello, Not-Spy Nollesc. And friends? A table for six? We will have your usual out in a moment; do you have your card to stamp? Ooh, you are only two meals away from a free special on the house. This way, thank you!”
The other not-spies jumped and seemed quite rattled; they were new. But the Drowned Man who had once earned Erin’s favor just shook Rosencrantz’s hand and asked for a table for seven; someone was coming. Then he sat down unobtrusively and took notes, also admiring the new frontage of the inn.
Ah, the frontage of the inn. Lyonette smiled as she heard a few more organic compliments about it. The inn was still ‘open’ to the elements, and the Goblin King’s smashing through the walls had meant that impromptu barrier spells had been necessary to keep the rain from washing into the inn.
However, after a few weeks, Architect Hexel and the builders of Antinium and undead had had plenty of time to repair most of the damage to the inn. Honestly, a day or two was all Antinium needed usually.
But the barrier remained. It just wasn’t a crude bubble spell; guests walking into the inn would stop and admire the light-walls that resembled actual beams and wood, just made out of glowing blue light that melded into the original structure. The ceiling that faced out onto the Floodplains was transparent; it was like a perfect barrier of glass that only rippled faintly now and then as the rain struck it.
It felt like you were exposed to the storm, but of course, no water or cold leaked through, and if the majesty of the rains got too much at night, Lyonette could make the barrier-spells opaque. It was quite something and why she’d asked Valeterisa to adjust the magic.
Well, in truth, it hadn’t been the Archmage of Mages who’d done this. It had been Montressa assisting Lord Moore. Before he’d begun entering Liscor every day, he’d cast a number of spells around the inn and demonstrated to Valeterisa that magic had advanced quite, quite a lot. Even if he wasn’t a ‘great spellcaster’ by his own standards!
Montressa had learned quite a lot. In fact, Lyonette fiddled with the little glowing remote control that Moore had made for her. A magical pad of runes! What would the future come up with next?
“Let’s see. That one’s to allow smells in…no. The undead might bother the Council a tiny bit—so what about, um? Aha!”
She hit a button, and the skies lit up. The people filtering into the common room cried out and shaded their eyes. Instantly, Lyonette hit another button, and the bright glare of the sun faded, but the amazingly blue skies still shone down, and in the distance, the sandy dunes kept blowing…she laughed in delight.
“So sorry, folks! I’ll change the vista if it’s too bright! Where are we…? Ah!”
The ‘glass’ of the barrier had shifted in what it was showing. Instead of Liscor and the Floodplains, it was a scrying spell anchored to…Lyonette peered at the writing on the top right corner.
“Zeikhal? Oh my, it looks rather pleasant! Except for the sandstorm over there.”
The amazingly exotic vista was bathing the inn in light, and she fancied she’d change it to another setting in a few minutes, but it was a good…icebreaker for the Council, wasn’t it? She carefully tucked the remote into her pockets. If she left it out, Asgra would switch it to something unsettling like the deep sea. The sight of gigantic waves rolling towards you tended to put you off your food.
This was the new inn. And the magical front was probably one of the stronger parts of the inn right now. Certainly, a few visitors trying to sneak into the inn instead of going through the long, trapped hallway kept slamming into the lightwall. Lyonette smiled to herself as she saw someone pop into a seat.
“Vy, Lyonette. I leave you for one second and you’ve caused another incident. Vhat is it this time?”
Colfa was smiling, though, because her accent was out in full force. Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“This one wasn’t my fault! What happened, Colfa—oh, dead gods. It was such a peaceful morning, too! We were just singing a moment ago. Now I can’t believe what’s happening/but I’ll get the last laugh. Just you wait. I can’t wait. I won’t be beat/I can’t be defeated in my—wait a second, why am I singing?”
She narrowed her eyes, then groaned as she turned.
“Miss Calla! Switch your Skill off, please!”
“Oops, sorry.”
A Drake sitting at a table innocently deactivated her Skill, but the [Singing Instructor], Calla Songstress, had definitely done that on purpose. She seemed to think that having people burst into impromptu song-and-dance numbers was an appropriate way to live. Despite what had happened last time!
Actually, Lyonette was amazed Calla kept coming back to the inn, but it seemed the Drake had liked the taste of music, if nothing else. Plus, she was sitting at a table on the inside.
“What is this new magic thing? Oh, that’s so much better than even Invrisil’s best cafés! And the prices are so much better than Pallass or Invrisil. I just had to stop by because everyone loves the gossip from this place. It’s so hard to start up in a new city, you know, but if you’re brave enough to sit at the inn, people want to hear about it!”
She was chatting to Xinthe, and Lyonette and Colfa eyed each other. The Vampiress made a face.
“She is very good at singing, though. Mayhaps you should hire her to teach ze Antinium?”
“I’ll give it a thought. But I think she needs toughening up. She’d probably faint before she got to the Painted Antinium’s barracks.”
At least that other woman, Ebente, wasn’t around…Mrsha had directed Ushar to watch out for her. But then the Council strode on in, and Lism’s familiar voice rang out.
“Where is she? We don’t have time for this today! Not with the election! Does she even realize she’s hurting our campaigns? Miss Lyonette—”
He did a double-take as he tried to shove past Menolit and saw the vista of Chandrar. Lism halted, mouth open.
“Dead gods, the door’s opened a portal to Chandrar! Summon the army! We’re going to have to fight off the King of Destruction now! Get me every [Merchant] in Liscor! Chandrar! We’ll sell them fish and water—”
He was about to dash back the way he’d come when Krshia grabbed him by the scuff of the neck with a sigh. She waved at Lyonette, and the [Princess] muttered to Colfa.
“I do not know what she sees in him.”
“Eh, many people say good things about him. Better him than the Merchant’s Guild leader. Now, do you want me with you? I could add zome…elegance to the discussions.”
Colfa produced a fan. She just wanted to be there in this kind of discussion, so Lyonette rolled her eyes and gestured to a table. There was already a rather grand seat where she was meant to sit, and Colfa beamed as Peggy brought over a high-backed baroque-style chair for her. The Council eyed her, and Elirr muttered to Raekea.
“I told you we should have brought our own seats. Time to counterlevel…”
You know, it was fun. For a few seconds, Lyonette smiled…until she saw the actual anxiety on the Council’s faces and saw more people flooding in. Then she wished that her peaceful day had continued. Not that this was like seeing an Elder Creler coming at you, but it was suddenly just a tad bit of work. Consequences for her actions.
That familiar thread of anxiety and uncertainty. Lyonette sighed as she focused and got down to brass tacks with the Council.
And it didn’t get better when Mrsha came home from school. On the contrary, Lyonette had thought it might, but then she heard Mrsha had been…
Bullied?
 
——
 
The girl was having a late lunch at The Wandering Inn, and Lyonette saw Captain Zevara wandering down the repaired hallway when she rushed into the common room. She didn’t even ask about what the Watch Captain was doing here; she assumed it was part of the flood of [Negotiators] and Councilmembers and Watch Commander Venim who’d come to try to talk her out of her decision.
Dead gods, her head. She’d refused them all, and since she couldn’t really say why she had made her decision other than that she didn’t want to pay taxes, it had been fruitless. And stressful.
This Council might know to back down, but what if Liscor elects a new one in this dratted election they’re forcing? We cannot and will not pay taxes.
It even made sense; Liscor wasn’t sending the Watch through the door. It was removed physically from the city—it was just that Lyonette wished she could have done that more gracefully and for a better reason.
Well, it was done, and the news of Mrsha had thrown everything else out of her head.
“Who did it? Dalimont, did you summon the Watch? Teacher Shassa knows, doesn’t she?”
She looked Mrsha up and down for injury, and Mrsha scowled.
Who snitched on me?
She gave Dalimont an accusing glower as Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva shook their heads at a table they were snacking at. The Thronebearer avoided Mrsha’s gaze.
“I merely informed Her Highness of the event, Miss Mrsha.”
“Mrsha, who did it? And why? You don’t seem that upset.”
Nanette was there too, and she gave her roommate and sister a critical witch’s eye. Mrsha merely sighed and wrote in the air with a glowing claw.
It was a new girl. Rinni. She just threw some candy apple on my fur.
“And she pushed you during recess—ow, my leg!”
Ekirra began and clutched at his leg as Mrsha kicked him. Lyonette eyed Dalimont.
“And you were…”
Watching from the side because he’s a [Knight], Mother. I’m fine. She’s just angry at me. And the inn.
Mrsha intervened with a patient look. She had a tiny bit of dried syrup in her fur; Nanette tried to comb it out as Lyonette turned to her.
“But if she’s being unpleasant—”
I told Miss Shassa, and she knows. I’m not bothered, Mother. It’s not like she’s a Creler. She’s nine. If Ser Dalimont got involved, that’d be bad. Please, don’t worry. Did you secede from Liscor while I was at school?
Mrsha changed subjects, and Lyonette inhaled to explain—then glanced at Dalimont. His helpless shrug did make her realize how bad it might look to have an adult [Knight] haranguing a child. But even so!
Where is their family, and who do I have to send Vaulont after? No—no—Mrsha has a point. Lyonette realized she might be overprotective.
But after all Mrsha had gone through—! It struck Lyonette that a month ago, it would have been the other girl she’d be worried for. Mrsha had poisoned Thronebearers with death spice and gotten into scrapes—a vengeful Mrsha would be a problem. But this Mrsha…just watched her mother, worried it was Lyonette who’d go too far.
“…If Miss Shassa knows about the issue and is taking steps, I’ll—let it be. I’m quite sorry that happened to you, Mrsha.”
Eh, it was a pretty good day. I didn’t mind any of it. We learned how to resole shoes in class. Very practical. Ekirra’s feet stink.
“Do not!”
Visma and Ekirra chorused. Then they eyed each other and blushed. Oh my, were they a tiny couple? Mrsha pretended to stick her finger down her throat to throw up and gazed at Arrema for support. The older Mrsha leaned over.
“It’ll never work out, guys.”
Ekirra and Visma gave her a very strange look and edged away from the big, scary Gnoll. Arrema’s face fell for a second, and Lyonette breathed in and out.
“Very well. I, ah—”
“Miss Lyonette? Someone from the Council to see you.”
Xinthe stopped as Lyonette whirled with such a glower on her face that Raekea halted in her tracks. Lyonette faced Mrsha.
“I have to go, Mrsha, but after this, tell me more about your day!”
Mrsha lifted one hand like a weary [Senator] casting a vote into the great beyond.
Good luck on your trials, Mother. I’ll be snacking. Ave, domina!
Lyonette had no idea what that was about, and neither did Dame Ushar until she snapped her fingers.
“I think that was one of the mage-languages. Latin, the Earthers call it. She might have learned it from Kevin.”
“Kevin.”
Lyonette muttered darkly, forgetting she was glad he was alive. She glanced around for him.
“And where is our [Mechanic] today?”
“I believe he visited Miss Imani this morning. As for his current whereabouts…he’s with Watch Captain Zevara as well?”
“Huh?”
She’d just talked to Zevara. What was that Watch Captain doing? Then Lyonette focused on the present.
 
——
 
Headaches. By the end of the day, Lyonette had one, and she was regretting her rash decision to secede from Liscor. Or perhaps it was just…well, opening the inn again.
Maybe it was knowing someone was harassing Mrsha and the last thing she should do was march over to the school and have a word with the parents—or Shassa—and wanting to.
Or maybe it was having the Council braying at her for her decision, as if they owned the inn or had protected it despite all the inn had done for the city, good and bad.
Possibly, it was the fact that the Calanferians needed guidance and were a bit—snoopy. Bird had complained to Lyonette about them poking around her rooms and cleaning up her dead birds.
It might have been the undead thing.
Conceivably, it was Pawn and a group of Painted Antinium sitting in the common room, talking louder than usual and trying to engage her in conversation any time she walked past.
…Yep. It was definitely that last one that pushed her over the top. Lyonette had to stop on the fourth attempt. She found herself sitting with some Painted Antinium and smiling at Pawn.
“Is everyone enjoying their meal?”
“We are, immensely, Lyonette. This is certainly the best venue for good food in Liscor.”
Pawn smiled at her—and instantly, Holytext, one of his disciples who’d come by the inn earlier with some business, raised a hand.
“The best venue in the Floodplains, as the inn is not a part of Liscor any more. Not the best in Liscor in any case because Antinium are now operating food-based establishments and we must support our own people.”
Every head focused on Pawn, and he visibly hesitated.
“Um…yes. Thank you, Holytext, for that clarity.”
He gave Lyonette an embarrassed stare as his Painted Antinium nodded and clacked their mandibles as one. Despite herself, Lyonette covered a smile.
“And what is going on in Liscor? Besides my, ah, little declaration?”
“Oh, the usual. Theft, rain in the Hive, and enchanted suits of armor attacking people on the road.”
“Ah—is that usual?”
Despite herself, Pawn did get her attention, and the Worker explained.
“Well, the rain and armor is. It is a very trying thing. You are aware that the dungeon is releasing more suits of enchanted armor? Some even climb out of the tunnels and attack travellers on the road. The Watch and adventurers are also combating them.”
“I had no idea.”
Lyonette was faintly alarmed by the notion, but Pawn just shrugged. He turned to Yellow Splatters, and the [Captain] rumbled.
“They seem…cleverer than before. They will retreat in front of a threat. And they fight better.”
He rubbed at a scar on his carapace that appeared like it had come from a big blade. All the Painted Antinium nodded. Lyonette bit her lip.
“That sounds like a problem. Ah—and the thefts? Someone’s stealing from Antinium? You mentioned it during your sermon, Pawn.”
“In small quantities, yes. I do not believe it is a great problem, simply a new one to face. In fact, I heard Watch Captain Zevara was interviewing some Workers very recently.”
Pawn assured her airily, and Lyonette supposed that it was petty theft. She put it out of her mind and tried to make small-talk with Pawn. The problem was…
He put his hand on hers as she rested it on the table. She took it back. Pawn hesitated, then folded his hands together as he used his other two to eat.
“So, Lyonette, may we count on your presence at the next sermon? Your singing was very inspirational to the congregation. There is already a petition for a choir, but Bird has declined to join another sermon. You could teach it.”
“I—could certainly see if Colfa and Nanette will join me. When is the next sermon?”
“Tonight.”
Pawn saw her expression.
“We could do another one tomorrow. Or once per week?”
All the Painted Antinium were staring at her, and Lyonette felt that current of pain in her head grow worse. She spoke abruptly.
“I don’t think I can commit to that, Pawn.”
“What about once a m—”
“Oh my. Is that Dame Ushar calling me? Ushar, I’m coming! I’m so sorry, Pawn, I have to go.”
Thank goodness for Thronebearers. Ushar was waving at Lyonette with feigned urgency, and Pawn swivelled as Lyonette shot from the table. Only, the [Princess] realized it was an actual emergency as the Thronebearer motioned her over.
“Your Highness, into the [World’s Eye Theatre]. I have him on speaking stone, but…in person would be best.”
“Who?”
“Vaulont.”
 
——
 
The Vampire was leaning against a wall in an alleyway that was far grimier than Lyonette expected. She was almost positive it was in Tenbault…he was holding one side, and when he saw her appear, he rasped.
“She got me.”
“What? Vaulont! You’re wounded!”
He had a hole in his side and more cuts in his arms! They weren’t healing, and Lyonette panicked.
“Healing potion. We have enough! We need to get you—no, wait, Holytext gave me some healing scrolls—”
The Vampire shook his head, glancing over his shoulder.
“No, don’t waste one. I’ll heal overnight. They were just enchanted daggers. She stabbed me the moment I came into her radius. I tried to tell her who I was—I think that stopped her from killing me.”
“Tessa. Tessa did this?”
Lyonette was horrified, and Vaulont winced as he straightened; red blood leaked from his armor, and he cursed.
“Ash me, she’s fast. Yes. She’s not in a good state, Lyonette. Not at all.”
“How bad…?”
The Vampire counted.
“I think I saw her on a mixture of four drugs at once. I asked around before trying to get close to the Healer’s mansion where she resides—she’s been on some kind of substance nonstop since the Winter Solstice. Several fights with both clients of the Healer and other adventurers.”
Oh no. Tessa. Lyonette felt that pang of guilt worsen. But she had to focus.
“Vaulont, you return right now. Do you need someone to pick you up?”
He seemed to be ready to say he’d come back on his own, but hesitated.
“If there was an overnight coach…”
Lyonette glanced at Ushar, who nodded and beckoned; Xinthe ran over at once. Some small help there.
“We’re having one sent to you now, Vaulont. Good job. I am terribly sorry you got hurt.”
He wore a bitter smile on his face.
“It’s hard to go up against those with Skills, even with all my capabilities. I’ve failed my task. Can I do anything while I’m here?”
She saw apprehension flash across his face, carefully hidden, and spoke fiercely.
“You did not fail, Vaulont! You’re the only member of staff I would send into danger and hope to escape it, especially if Tessa is berserk. Please gather any information on the state of things in Tenbault about Tessa.”
He seemed gratified at this and nodded. After a few more words, he signed out and Lyonette closed the call. She stood there a moment, in the [World’s Eye Theatre], and knew what she had to do.
“Tessa?”
The theatre flickered around her. For a moment, Lyonette thought she saw a Drake writhing around on the ground, and she heard a scratchy scream. A familiar voice in agony.
“Tessa.”
Lyonette thought she saw the scarred Drake twist around, but Tessa was blurry. Static shot though the image, and the scream was equally ‘scratchy’. She reached for the Drake, who flinched back from her—then the image dissolved into black and white dots. Tessa broke apart as the rushing hiss of static surrounded Lyonette.
“What the—?”
Protection spells? Normally, not even foreign rulers had the power to block the [World’s Eye Theatre]. From everything said of the Healer of Tenbault, Lyonette didn’t think she was that good a [Mage]. But then it all made itself clear.
The static coalesced, and several golden lines of text drew themselves in the air.
 
This more complete anti-scrying spell has been brought to you by the Terras faction of Wistram. Please inquire at your nearest Mage’s Guild for our new spell protection package and other services!
 
Lyonette cursed the Archmage of Memories out for a good half-minute. Then she stared at the place where Tessa had been.
She’s getting worse, and I let her go. I should have focused on her, but first it was the Solstice, then the [Palace of Fates]. No more. No more!
Tomorrow, she’d work harder, but she’d done all she could tonight. A busy day. Pawn and taxes. New servants.
Because all of these things weighed on her, along with her determination to hit Level 40, Lyonette did something she never did that night as she trailed into The Wandering Inn’s common room. A moment of weakness.
She had a drink.
 
——
 
She was having a bad day, so Lyonette hit the bottles. She was six cups down and possibly half a bottle too. The horrified looks from her Calanferian staff just made her indulge harder.
You see, she never drank. Not with two daughters around and an inn to run. However, she felt like there hadn’t been a disaster for weeks, and…she was upset. Drinking as an escape surely wasn’t a bad habit?
It was actually precisely because these weren’t huge disasters that she felt she could have a drink. If Vaulont had been bleeding out in Tenbault, Lyonette would have been dry as a bone, worried. But he had already gotten on the overnight carriage.
So she poured herself another drink from behind the counter.
“Your Highness, you’re drinking too much! Surely you’d care to have any—beverages in private?”
Xinthe was begging Lyonette to take this somewhere where spies couldn’t see her, but the [Princess] didn’t care.
She was sitting at the bar, and some of her headaches were drinking with her.
“Shut up, you. We’re pouring one out for—everything. Right, M…Lyonette?”
Arrema was tapping on the bar, looking for her drink. She hadn’t been served one yet, and Ishkr hesitated. But Lyonette just glanced over as the young Gnoll woman fixed Ishkr with a look.
“Listen, buddy. My entire world is dust and memories. If you don’t hand me a drink, I’ll get mad.”
That decided Ishkr. He gestured at the bottles on the wall.
“Got a favorite?”
“Uh…Velrusk Claw?”
From the way that Arrema said that, everyone in earshot knew she actually wasn’t much of a drinker, which made Lyonette proud for her future-self. Arrema might smoke Dreamleaf like Palt, but she didn’t drink like Pelt. 50% was decent.
Someone leaned over the bar and pointed. Arrema jumped, then her face went blank as Lord Raithland, the half-Giant, took a seat. Or rather, the magical earth rose and reinforced the stool so he could sit.
“Providence’s Cup. Eight shots for me, one for Miss Arrema, please.”
“I don’t know that one.”
Ishkr blinked as Arrema peered at the half-Giant and then leaned on his shoulder without a word. Lyonette gulped down some cranberry juice she’d mixed with whiskey and pushed her empty cup forwards.
“Providence Spirits on the shelf, there. You mix it with a spoonful of Ashfire Bee honey and purified water or close as you can get. Then a cider or mead.”
The half-Giant instructed Ishkr on the preparation method, and it was a rather pleasant drink when he served it out. Not with all the subtlety of a hammer; the water truly cut the strength of the alcohol, and Lyonette toasted the others.
“Here’s to regrets!”
Arrema took down her drink too fast, and then she stood on her stool and raised her cup. The inn’s diners eyed her. Lyonette said nothing. If she was having a bad day—then her future daughter was having enough for a distillery. The [Princess] raised her cup and took it down to the horror of the Calanferians.
“Your Highness! Think of your offspring!”
Xinthe hissed at Lyonette, and the [Princess] cast around reflexively, guilt eating at her on top of the drink. Lyonette saw that Mrsha and Nanette were copying the bad examples of the adults like every parent’s worst nightmare.
Nanette was pouring a goat’s milk into Mrsha’s cup, and the girl chinked her glass hard against the young witch’s cup. Sammial and Hethon were doing the same. They took a long drink, and Mrsha met Lyonette’s eyes. The [Princess] raised a cup, guilty, and swung around.
“My mother smokes. I’ve seen worse, and so have you, Xinthe. I’d rather drink somewhat responsibly in her view than pretend I don’t at all.”
“Yeah! My mother pretended she didn’t drink shit. And look how I turned out!”
Arrema flailed a paw at the Calanferian. Faced with this kind of impeccable logic, the woman just watched as Lyonette beckoned at Ishkr.
“Give me another Providence’s Cup, Ishkr.”
“Don’t you think you’ve had enough, Lyonette?”
She scowled at him.
“I can still remember why I reached for a drink. Lay on, Macduff; I’ll tell you when I’ve had enough!”
Arrema and Lord Raithland chuckled at the reference to Shakespeare, but Lyonette just reached for another drink. She couldn’t say why she was so miserable today—the obvious clues aside, she hadn’t tried to drown her sorrows after the [Palace of Fates]. Maybe…it was mundane difficulties.
The [Princess] raised her cup for another swallow and wondered when she’d fall flat on her back. It belatedly occurred to her that being resistant to poison probably meant she’d shot herself in the foot. Was it normal to be only drunk after taking half a bottle of whiskey down?
The liquid was touching her lip when the [Princess] froze. She glanced up—and her eyes locked on the thing she hadn’t searched for.
A door.
Another door. She almost threw her cup at it until she realized…she knew this one. A pale door hung in the air, unlike the [Garden of Sanctuary] or the [Palace of Fates]. It had a Harpy’s wings rising over the door, and she rose and looked around. The world was frozen…
“Oh. Oh, no.”
She stepped off of her stool and unsteadily walked towards it. It was her again. What had gone wrong this time? Please, not Ulvama. But whatever it was, Lyonette had to know.
She put her hand on the curious latch, fit for a Harpy’s claws, and she took a breath. Her heart pounded terribly. But she had to know. She always had to know. So she swung it open, expecting to see a hat blazing with black flames. A dying woman dripping with her miseries.
“…Erin?”
 
——
 
The [Pavilion of Secrets] Lyonette knew full well. It was a black void where, in every direction, she expected to see stars…or water. As if they were in space or at the bottom of the abyss of the sea.
The pale, worn gazebo sitting there and the single chess table like a place of judgement. A terrifying spot where the [Innkeeper] sat, breaking your heart as she continued, despite falling to pieces before your very eyes.
Demanding the truth from you as she prepared to dash herself to pieces. A scarred survivor wading through the blood she’d shed.
What was it this time? The drunk [Princess] actually closed her eyes as she opened the door…and then it was bright.
Something bounced Lyonette up, and she flew a good foot through in the air, which felt like far more. Drunkenness meant she stumbled on coming down, but it didn’t hurt. She bounced again.
“W-w-w-whaaa—?”
A hand caught her arm, and Lyonette felt the sunlight bathing her face. She gazed up, and a smile cracked that worn face. The [Innkeeper] brushed at a discolored strand of hair and hauled Lyonette up the giant beetle’s shell.
“Bad time, Lyonette? Sorry.”
“Erin? Where are we—a giant beetle?”
It was huge, red, and it had a hut on its back! The [Innkeeper] was sitting on its massive head as two giant pincers mashed together. The ground was streaming past them, giant rocks and blades of grass—
No, she was small! Small as a Fraerling! Lyonette was so startled that she didn’t see Ulvama at first. The Hobgoblin was combing a giant, one-eyed hamster’s fur as a man on the other side with white hair fed it seeds. The grumpy-looking hamster was glowering at a Fraerling sitting on the hut, strumming a three-stringed guitar—a young woman.
There was a Fraerling in the hut with a roach’s leg, too, stretched out on a hammock, and running along on the ground behind them were a pair of Fraerlings, a young man and woman who seemed scuffed up and quite fit! Lyonette took it all in, then ran over.
“Ulvama! Ulvama, are you okay? Erin, you learned how to abduct people with your door? No, wait, is this some other power? Am I in Baleros? Can you take me back?”
Her frantic shouting and appearance should have alarmed the Hobgoblin or gotten some reaction, but Ulvama just kept combing the hamster’s fur, grinning as the music came from above. Lyonette felt the beetle bump again and lifted in the air several inches. She caught one part of the hut on the beetle’s back, casting around wildly, but no one reacted to her except for the young woman standing with hands in her pockets.
Erin appeared…better. She was wearing a t-shirt and shorts, predictably, but made of grass and some kind of soft, cotton-like substance. She still had scars around her neck and on her wrists, but she seemed less desperate than last time.
“They can’t hear you, Lyonette. This is just a memory. A simulation of what I’m seeing.”
Lyonette shuddered at the word ‘simulation’, but then she got it. She spun to Erin, wide-eyed.
“I knew you could do that. I think. But—dead gods, Erin, this is incredible! You told me about the beetle, and is that the angry hamster?”
“Yup. He’s a jerk. That’s Eurise, and up there is, uh, Matha. The guy in there is our [Mad Doctor], Bowom, and the two running after us are Zemmy and Mera. We’re on the move. We left the Fraerling villages yesterday. I didn’t even include the others leaving the villages. Some are meeting up with us, some are just—leaving.”
She wore a bittersweet smile at that, as if she’d again done a bad thing, or perhaps just not a perfectly good one. But it wasn’t—bad. Lyonette gasped as she put two and two together.
“Oh. Oh my. You’re going to a Fraerling city?”
“The nearest one.”
Erin nodded. She was sitting cross-legged on the beetle’s head, used to every bump that sent Lyonette flying. The [Princess] stumbled as she landed, then blurted out.
“What’s wrong this time?”
“Wrong? Oh…”
Erin blinked and then ruffled her hair.
“Nothing for once.”
“Truly? You’re actually just checking in, like you promised? You? Keeping to a schedule?”
The [Innkeeper] scowled at Lyonette, but without any real wrath.
“Hey, I can remember things. Yeah, it’s just, well, an update. Okay, we had a problem with the, um—remember those Fraerling [Raiders]?”
“Oh no, were there more problems with—?”
“No, they were just kids. I overreacted. And then I nearly got in a fight with a bunch of mean aphids, but nothing’s happened the last few days. We had a really nice sendoff, and now we’re on the road.”
Lyonette waited for the ‘but’. Something like ‘but we’re out of food’ or ‘and I have this strange cough where I cough up blood, but I’m sure it’s fine’ or ‘and there are a hundred thousand ants following us’, but Erin said nothing more. She seemed to find it just as incongruous as Lyonette.
“So you’re…okay? Why did you call me?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked at Lyonette, and then she glanced at Ulvama. She cleared her throat as her eyes lingered on the Hobgoblin.
“Ulvama was really worried about all of you at the inn. And I thought—it’d be good if you knew I was okay. Our weekly check-in, remember?”
Lyonette had asked for that, but she was amazed that Erin had kept to it. She took a seat, or tried to, and the next bump from the Corumdon Beetle nearly sent her flying six whole inches in the air.
“Aaah!”
“Careful! You just have to move with the beetle!”
Erin jumped and grabbed Lyonette; she swung them through the air, and they landed on the beetle’s shell. Lyonette stumbled and felt embarrassed at how sure-footed Erin was.
“I’m sorry, I’m a bit—drunk.”
“Whaaa? You’re touching the devil’s juice? You, Lyonette?”
Erin feigned mock-outrage, but Lyonette was relieved to see a twinkle in her eyes. The [Princess] put her hands on her hips.
“I’ll have you know I only had…half a bottle. Practically only one with all the other drinks.”
“Oh, okay. That’s fine.”
Erin’s expression cleared, and Lyonette smiled. Then the [Innkeeper] did a bit of math on her fingers.
“Wait, that’s a lot…right? One bottle of cider?”
The [Princess] just laughed. She swung herself around, then peered around.
“Dead gods! This is amazing, Erin! Everything looks completely foreign from this height! That’s a tree? It’s like Oteslia’s tree!”
“You should try climbing one. It’s easier than you’d think. Still hard, but you can climb a lot more, and you feel like a superperson as a Fraerling.”
“If that’s how big a hamster is…birds and bugs must be a nightmare!”
Lyonette stared at the Battle Hamster, and Erin nodded.
“But they’re not as horrific as you’d think. Somehow, they’re more like giant animals when you’re their size. So you’re more wary than grossed out. I punched a cockroach the other day, and it barely bothered me.”
She wiped one hand on her shirt.
“…Gutting it was a lot nastier, and I didn’t try eating it. It had little eggs that the Fraerlings made for breakfast. You, uh, get used to the food. Sort of.”
“Ancestors.”
The [Princess] blanched, but then she saw the [Innkeeper] swaying to the music. She glanced up at the Fraerling playing.
“Matha? Isn’t that, um, the one who kidnapped…?”
“Yeah, I hate her guts. She insisted on coming along, and Ulvama said we had to bring her.”
“Because you almost killed her.”
The [Innkeeper] wore a guilty expression, but then she turned to Lyonette.
“—So I’m doing okay. How about you? Lyonette? Lyonette…?”
For answer, the [Princess] swayed over to Erin and put her arms around her friend. She embraced Erin in a sloppy, maudlin hug.
“Erin. I’ve missed you. I wish you were back!”
She felt tears coming on, and the [Innkeeper] took stock of Lyonette’s current inebriated state. Her eyes focused, then softened.
“Aw, man. Are you having a bad day?”
“No! Yes!”
“Did someone cause trouble at the inn? I can’t sense it that much…is there a big hole in the common room? Or—well, what is it? C’mon, let me know. I’m still the [Innkeeper].”
Erin sat Lyonette down, and the [Princess] held on to Erin, unwilling to let go. The [Innkeeper] even felt sturdier! Lyonette realized…Erin was the only person that she could go to with her problems. The adult to Lyonette, much like she was to Mrsha.
“Erin—I just declared the inn was independent from Liscor! And the damn elections are going on—and I think the undead are going crazy, and I don’t know how to talk to Arrema! And I want to get Tessa back, but I’m worried—”
“Uh. Wait, go back to the first one? You did what?”
“They were going to tax us! I had to!”
“Taxes.”
Erin muttered darkly, and she heard Lyonette out as the [Princess] spilled all the things that’d been bothering her.
“And what’s so jarring is—Mrsha and Nanette are being good! I haven’t heard a peep from either one.”
“Uh oh. Did Mrsha find another Creler nest or something? Is she hiding Shield Spiders in the basement or…?”
Lyonette shook her head vigorously.
“She’s actually just being good after all that’s happened. I…think…”
She’d have to check the basement. Just in case. Erin patted Lyonette on the shoulder. It was surreal being so close to the [Innkeeper] again. The last few times, she’d seemed at a great remove, for all they were in the same ‘room’.
The [Innkeeper]’s hazel eyes were focused on Lyonette.
“I’m sorry I left it all to you, Lyonette. I know you can handle it. But I wish I were back too. I’m coming, I promise.”
“I know. And Ishkr is wonderful, and I have Todi and Captain Earlia’s teams and…I’m just lost without you, Erin. I know I was always impatient with you, but now I’m making all the decisions, they never feel like the right ones.”
“Yeah, that’s normal. You just keep making choices until you find something you know is right.”
That made…sense. Lyonette sniffed and calmed down. Erin regarded her, then turned and stared at the moving scenery.
“I wasn’t there for the palace. I know.”
“Oh, but you were, Erin. You were, and you were wonderful. Even when you shouldn’t have been, you were there.”
The [Princess] remembered the burning [Innkeeper] fighting the Witch of Webs, and no one, surely, could ask for more than that. Erin didn’t understand, of course. She hadn’t been there. Lyonette wished Erin could have seen herself…but that was too heavy a conversation for this moment. Erin was shaking her head.
“I wish I had some kind of super-item to give you. Aside from the…boxes, of course.”
“They’ve been helpful enough. And if I needed something else, I’d just go raid your gardens, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] winced at the way Lyonette said it, but nodded. The [Princess] added softly.
“Besides, short of a Goblin King, I’m ready. The [Palace] was beyond anything I expected, but if it’s just Tyrion Veltras—I can handle it.”
This time, Erin gave her a suspicious eye, and Lyonette would have elaborated, but the [Innkeeper] just shrugged.
“Good. You’re always better prepared than I am, Lyonette. Like I said, the most valuable thing I have in my rooms would be the chess set to play Niers. You could send a coded message, but that’s about all, and I doubt he checks…no, wait. There is something you could use.”
“Oh? What’s that?”
Erin frowned, snapping her fingers.
“It’s in my rooms…in a jewelry box that Krshia gave me. It’s probably the only thing in there. It might be on my desk, or it’s in the wardrobe in one of the lower drawers. Probably next to my socks. It’s the ring that Ilvriss gave me.”
“Oh. Oh! That one? That’s useful.”
Having worn it before, Lyonette respected its powers, even if it wasn’t like her Ring of Conflagrations, which could spit [Fireballs]. Erin spoke to Lyonette.
“If you want it, it might come in handy. At least for pulling rank on Drakes.”
“I’ll take it, then. Just in case. Thank you, Erin. But I’m really not concerned about safety for the moment.”
Lyonette reassured Erin and saw the [Innkeeper] relax. Then she added, trying not to sound petulant.
“I didn’t even mention the worst part, really. The taxes were just one thing.”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice rose slightly with faint anxiety.
“Wait, there’s more? What’s the worst part?”
“Pawn’s trying to start our relationship up again. Well, he says friendship, but I think he’s hoping for more than that.”
“Ah.”
The expression on Erin Solstice’s face said that she knew too much and would prefer not to know any more. Lyonette, however, was far too drunk to spare Erin’s sensibilities.
“I know you knew about me and Pawn…it made sense at the time, but now we just don’t fit quite right, Erin, you know?”
“Um. Nope. Relationship advice isn’t for me. Isn’t, uh, that Lord Pellmia guy around? Or Ishkr? Menolit? Mrsha?”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to be supportive, but Lyonette just flopped against her. Now she was getting used to the beetle, she felt relaxed, sleepy, as they trundled along in the warm jungle. This was…beautiful.
When Erin looked around, she seemed more alive.
Younger. Like an actual young woman.
I want to be here with you. Everyone in the inn, with a magic door so we can join your adventure. But I want you to be unable to come back…because I think this is actually good for you, roaches and all.
Lyonette felt that so strongly she wanted to weep. Weep for the relaxed, smiling [Innkeeper] she’d thought had vanished forever. The only thing she resented was not being here with Erin.
“I feel silly about Pawn, Erin. I thought we’d be in love…forever. But just like all the poets say, it was only for a few months. Then I was so worried about Mrsha and everything else, it felt like we were strangers when we met again. You know?”
“Seriously, I don’t. I have only a few relationships under my belt, Lyonette. Is that how you say it? Under your belt? Yuck, that sounds gross, actually.”
Erin grimaced, and Lyonette laughed up at her. Then she grew serious as only a very drunk person could. Because she had the liquid courage to ask the questions she and everyone else hadn’t ever really dared to ask.
“Did you…ever find anyone you liked so much it hurt, Erin?”
“Me? No.”
The [Innkeeper] said it so simply and easily that it pained Lyonette’s heart. Erin brushed at her white patch of hair.
“Well, the relationship hurt. But never like…wanting someone so bad like that, I guess. It sounds nice.”
“It’s terrible. And wonderful. Not once?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged, defensive.
“I didn’t meet that many guys, Lyonette. One time, I accidentally dated a girl online…most chess dudes are, um…chess…dudes.”
“Ah. On par with a 4th [Prince] of the realm?”
“…Probably below that. Do [Princes] bathe regularly?”
The [Princess] gave Erin such a morose stare that the [Innkeeper] began chuckling. She hugged her ribs as if they hurt, and Lyonette began giggling too. Then she remembered…that was what she was missing.
Her best friend.
“Erin, you have to come back. I miss you! Everyone keeps living their lives without you and treating us like we’re just…an inn. You have to come back and push over a building in Invrisil!”
“I promise I’ll do that once I get back. Is Pawn really the worst of it, Lyonette?”
She gave Erin a serious gaze.
“Well, that, and Future-Pawn became the [Prophet] who nearly destroyed everything, so…yes. I’m rather afraid that if I reject him, he’ll become the same Prophet! Only more radical.”
The [Innkeeper] had to admit this was a good point. She stared up at the trees passing overhead as the Battle Hamster began sneezing on Eurise, who was tickling his nose with some wild cotton. They began fighting and leapt from the beetle’s back in amazing displays of martial arts as Lyonette and Erin watched.
“Y’know, Lyonette, you can’t date someone or be worried about rejecting them because they might become a religious maniac. But that’s just my opinion.”
It turned out that Erin was full of relationship-wisdom on par with Lord Pellmia! Lyonette drunkenly sat up.
“I’ll remember that! Can I tell Pawn that you thought a relationship wasn’t a good idea?”
“Aw, don’t drag me into it. Um…fine.”
“Wait, wait—what if you called him into your [Pavilion of Secrets] and told him not to attempt to date me?”
“No…no. I’m not doing that.”
Lyonette pouted, then put her head down in Erin’s lap. The [Innkeeper] gently picked up Lyonette’s head and put her on the beetle’s shell instead. She got up with a sigh, stretching out her back.
“Whoops, I forgot that I can’t exercise in here. This is from earlier. It’s night right now, and we’re about to stop. And you’re…?”
“At the bar. Drinking.”
“Huh. Well, I can’t help with Pawn, Lyonette. But, uh, you’re not the only one with unwanted romance. Poor Ulvama has Matha flirting with her. She says it’s fine, but it’s really annoying.”
Erin developed a scowl as she pointed up at the guitar-playing Fraerling, but unlike a real expression of her ire, this was just hilarious. She flopped onto her stomach.
“Oh, really? Well, Ulvama can handle her. I’m more amazed that a Fraerling is interested in a Goblin.”
The [Innkeeper]’s scowl deepened.
“Yeah, they’re really open-minded. Did you know? Her grandmother told me Matha’s a…lesbian!”
She glanced around before whispering that to Lyonette. The [Princess] gave Erin a very serious look.
“Erin, I don’t know what that is.”
“Oh. Uh…”
After a brief explanation, Lyonette got it, but she didn’t feel much of anything at the news. The [Princess] knew her Terandrian roots should have her exclaim in horror at this point, but after having met various people in the inn and having a good talk with Rose…she just raised her eyebrows.
“Terrifying, Erin. Far worse than that fellow with the roach leg.”
“Who, Bowom? Absolutely. He’s really cool. I just hope I don’t lose a limb with him around because he’ll probably get me a new one. But it’s annoying! And I think Ulvama’s encouraging it.”
“Dear me.”
Erin eyed Lyonette as the [Princess] rolled up the Corumdon Beetle’s back, giggling to herself.
“I feel like you’re not taking this seriously, Lyonette.”
“Erin, if the worst you have is a Fraerling flirting with Ulvama, I am very relieved. I wish…I had someone nice flirting with me. Not Pawn, but someone I could talk to.”
She lay morosely on her stomach. Erin pointed a finger at her.
“You’re weird. What happened to self-sufficient, tough Lyonette?”
“I’m lonely, Erin. I’d rather have some—interesting, casual, fun relationship with someone handsome, knowledgeable, who can dance…something less involved than the inn!”
“Huh, I’m…too busy for that. And so is Ulvama.”
Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, longer than was mannerful, but since it was just her memory, the Hobgoblin didn’t react. Erin hesitated, then walked over next to Ulvama and sat down. Lyonette sat up and squinted.
“Really now?”
She felt her buzzing mind focus for a moment, but she was so doubtful of the conclusion her alcohol-soused brain gave her that she shook her head. She stood up, and Erin smiled wistfully up at her.
“Yeah. I’ll figure that out when I get back to civilization. And if you’re gonna date someone…maybe not an Antinium? They’re pretty young, Lyonette. So are Hobgoblins. Like Numbtongue.”
“Erin, I may throw up on you. The idea.”
“Oh, good. I wasn’t sure if his [Bard] powers were still active…”
The [Princess] sat next to Erin, glancing at the [Innkeeper], who was now distracted for some reason.
“He’s another reason why we need you back. Oh, Erin, I don’t want to burden you, and I’m so glad you seem better.”
“Me too, Lyonette.”
Erin glanced at her, and the [Princess] heard another foreign song being played on the guitar overhead. Erin glowered, but Lyonette’s eyes twinkled with a sudden idea.
“Well, I’ll be fine, Erin. I’m feeling better, truly. Strange, I never thought about…seeing another woman. It’s rather unappealing.”
Or to be precise, it made none of her that interested. Even Pawn made her more wistful than that. Erin blinked.
“What? Uh, yeah. Not that there’s anything wrong with that. Equal marriage and everything.”
“Mhm.”
The [Princess] leaned over and rested her chin on Erin’s shoulder. The [Innkeeper] frowned at her.
“You really are drunk. Be sure to lay off the strong stuff, okay? What were you drinking, Rxlvn?”
Lyonette chuckled.
“Just enough to stop worrying so hard. And to embarrass my mother, which I realize isn’t a splendid motivation…”
“Yeah, uh, that sounds bad. You sober up with one of Octavia’s drinks, m’kay? That’s an order! Promise me in the [Pavilion of Secrets]!”
Erin pointed at Lyonette, and she sounded so much like her old self for a moment that Lyonette’s heart hurt.
“I will. But on the topic of relationships, Erin…”
“Aw, man. You’ll find someone, Lyonette! There’s plenty of fish around Liscor. It’s still raining, right?”
The [Princess] laughed. Then she leaned closer.
“I’ll go searching, maybe. But if there was a woman I’d consider trying a relationship with, well, there’s only one person.”
“Who? Is it Selys? Krsh—”
The [Princess] pecked Erin on the cheek. It was just a quick smooch, but Erin Solstice froze up—then performed an eight-inch jump into the air. The [Princess] was laughing even as the idea solidified in her head.
“Why not, Erin? If you’re interested, I’ll—”
She tried to embrace Erin. The [Innkeeper] picked up the drunk [Princess] in her arms. Then she gave Lyonette a huge smile—and tossed her off the beetle.
“Nothing personal, Lyonette! But you’re acting really Nerrhavia-like right now!”
The young woman screamed as the ground flashed towards her.
“Eriiiiiin—”
 
——
 
She moved off of her barstool in a defensive roll as the [Pavilion of Secrets] ended and did more damage to herself than a fall from a beetle’s back would have.
“Argh! Oh—my spleen! My legs!”
The crash of four barstools and a Gobin falling on the [Princess] made Arrema and Lord Raithland turn and stare at her. Arrema peered down at the groaning Lyonette.
“Hey, uh, you okay, M—Lyonette?”
The appalled servants were rushing forward when Lyonette popped up.
“I’m fantastic!”
And she did a cartwheel on the spot. She laughed at the expression of the servants, and Mrsha and Nanette blinked. But Lyonette was suddenly giddy—she cast around, then did a frontflip onto a table.
That was a [Flawless Attempt], but it was worth it for the jaws dropping. The [Princess] snatched a mug up from Relc, who happened to be sitting at the table with Valeterisa.
“Hey.”
“Drinking is worthwhile after all! One more mistake for the night. Why was I even gloomy?”
“Because you seceded from Liscor? How drunk is she, Ishkr? What’d you give her?”
Arrema called out and leaned over the cup, which Ishkr was sniffing suspiciously. But his head rose, and Lyonette mouthed a name at him.
Erin. His eyes went wide, and she swivelled to Mrsha and Nanette. They sat up, and when they saw Lyonette smiling—the [Princess] gazed around.
Erin was okay. She was smiling! And—Lyonette felt giddy at the stupid thought she’d had. She just had to tell Ushar, Mrsha, Bird, Nanette, and everyone else. But later. Oh, and Rose! Dead gods, Rose, her favorite Earther!
It wasn’t about that fake confession to Erin—well, fake as you got in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. It was just seeing her [Innkeeper] smile. So long as she was alright, it felt like Lyonette could handle things here.
She did a twirl on the table—Relc and Valeterisa saved their plates as they hurried to another table.
“Seceding from Liscor? Hah! I’ll do it again in a heartbeat! Let the Council complain—I’ll blow up City Hall! Just give me an excuse—Lord Raithland, Arrema, let’s raze the first city that gives us another problem!”
“Whoo! Go young-M—Lyonette! I haven’t seen a good city-razing in years!”
Arrema waved her paws, and the half-Giant just chuckled. But Lyonette was dancing on the table. She laughed as the people in the inn took notes or suggested cities. And her daughters at the table regarded Hethon and Sammial.
“Mrsha, your mom’s so cool. All our mom did when she got drunk is throw things. And threaten to erase cities, but they were all Drake ones.”
Sammy confided to her in all seriousness. Hethon nodded, eyes on Lyonette with another of adolescence’s temporary crushes. Jericha was trying to get them not to take this as an example of what they should do, but Mrsha just scribbled back.
Perhaps I’ve been wrong about this alcohol thing. It looks quite fun.
Nanette nodded as Lyonette laughed happily for the first time in weeks. The two boys glanced around to see if they could try a mug, and Bird fanned her wings and stroked her chin.
“Yes, I too must re-evaluate my position on this horrible drink. Bartender, a mead for me and the table!”
She slapped the table, and Asgra took her order and came back with five mugs—which Jericha instantly confiscated. Not to be deterred, Bird un-confiscated them and walked out the door.
Later reports from spies would reveal that Bird had found a local farm belonging to a Farmer Himilt and gotten eight birds and several goats drunk along with herself. As for the [Princess], she vanished into the [World’s Eye Theatre] after a few more minutes of cavorting on the table. But the inn was smiling after that.
Where the [Princess] led in mood, the rest followed. Or, rather, the [Innkeeper]. Nanette and Mrsha, sadly sober, ended up practicing square dancing with the more sober members of the inn, twirling around and locking elbows. Giggling until sleep hit.
As for Lyonette, she was smiling until her head hit the pillow. A silly, inconsequential night. Sometimes, that’s all you wanted.
 
——
 
Of course, she woke up with a splitting headache the next day. Lyonette sat up, groaning in agony, then took the Hangover Tonic that Dame Ushar proffered to her. She drank it, then beamed.
“Oh, that was a splendid night. Dead gods, I don’t see what the problem with drinking is! Erin was always so down on it.”
“Most people do not have Hangover Tonics of sufficient quality, and I believe Earthers like Miss Erin do not have them at all, Your Highness.”
“I can’t imagine how you’d live like that, Ushar.”
Lyonette cartwheeled out her door just for the heck of it.
 
——
 
Alright, in truth, Lyonette did feel a bit better after last night, and not because of the alcohol. It was just Erin.
She felt like she could handle the world’s problems now, and the very first thing she did was check on what mattered.
Well, strictly speaking, the first thing Lyonette did was go to Erin’s room and find the ring that Erin had mentioned. She stared at the ring that Ilvriss had given Erin and then slipped it on. It was familiar and plain, and Lyonette smiled at it with a hint of nostalgia for the…well, differently bad old days.
She forgot she had it on as she hurried to her tasks with a determined air. The moment Lyonette came downstairs, someone rose to their feet.
“Miss Lyonette? I’m from Liscor’s Council—”
She flashed a huge smile at the Gnoll and turned away.
“Once Ishkr gets in, I’m sure he’ll be delighted to speak with you, sir.”
“Actually, I was hoping to speak to—”
The Gnollish [Negotiator] ran into Ser Dalimont as the [Knight] emerged from the gym and finished his morning workout, a towel around his neck and sweat running down his biceps. Lyonette saw him put an arm out and halt the Gnoll.
Both she and the Gnoll gave the man a second look. Without his armor, Ser Dalimont appeared a lot sharper than the man who’d first come after her to bring her home. Part of that was probably his advancing level and battle experience…but part of it was also, perhaps, access to the gymnasium.
His arms and legs and other parts of his physique were far more developed. Certainly enough for the Gnoll to hesitate as Dalimont politely chivvied him back to his seat.
Lyonette stared a bit longer than she needed to, and when she glanced around, she saw a head of brown hair disappear back upstairs. Which told her that Nanette had been right there. Perhaps waiting to see Ser Dalimont finishing his workout as well?
That’s not very discreet of Nanette. Did I do that when I was fourteen? Of course not! Lyonette’s memory presented her with an image of the younger [Princess] just casually hanging out around the Thronebearers’ practice courts. She instantly thought about putting her head through a wall. Because in hindsight, all the Thronebearers would have known what she was doing, ogling them as they worked out. Much less poor Thronebearers having to field questions from the [Princess] doing her best to be innocent…
Dead gods, memory was a terrible thing. She almost reached for another bottle before shaking her head.
The point was that she had an appreciation for Ser Dalimont. That was all! The very idea of doing anything more with a [Knight] in service to her was a terrible idea on all fronts. But it rather, ah, confirmed something Lyonette had been thinking of.
Firstly, she hadn’t lied to Erin. Well, she’d lied in the sense that she’d been very drunk and said what she’d been thinking at the moment to get a rise out of the other woman, but she definitely appreciated the male form in a way the female one didn’t do for her.
Second…she was perhaps a bit too lonely for her own good. Which again didn’t mean she was going to jump back into Pawn’s arms.
Wonderful, another problem for me to deal with. At least she could push ‘romance’ down to the bottom of a rapidly-filling queue. And she had the bandwidth to deal with problems this time. First off after mandatory Dalimont appreciation: Vaulont!
 
——
 
“Vaulont, are you well? I have breakfast if you’re able to stomach it.”
That was both a question about his mood as well as whether his stomach had a hole in it. When the Vampire answered in the affirmative, Lyonette opened the door and found him sitting up in bed. He was thoroughly bandaged, and when she entered with a jar of blood on a tray and some porridge on the side, he blinked.
“Where did that…?”
“Liscor’s blood bank. I asked Fierre what might be appropriate.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
He seemed startled to have her waiting on him, but Lyonette just put the tray down on a little stand that Asgra brought into the room.
“Do you mind debriefing me on what you saw?”
He nodded as he sat up a bit more and winced. Asgra waved a claw.
“You want me to feed you?”
Vaulont shook his head. Vaguely disappointed, the Cave Goblin retreated. Which made Lyonette think that Asgra admired Vaulont for his ability to kill…or maybe it was his red eyes and pointed teeth. Or maybe Asgra just thought that was a better job than working a morning shift.
“What can you tell me about Tenbault, Vaulont? This can wait if you’re unwell—I know you came in just past dawn via the door, but I was, ah, sound asleep.”
Or drunk. Vaulont found a spoon and hesitated as he reached for the blood. But after she nodded encouragingly, he picked up a metal straw and poked through the cork at the top of the glass jar.
“Honestly, there’s not much. It’s hard to notice Shriekblade at the best of times, and most of Tenbault is just focused on the Healer. She’s tripled her prices, but she’s doubled how many patients she sees per day.”
“She has? Dead gods, doesn’t she charge a fortune?”
Lyonette was astounded, and Vaulont nodded.
“And she’s cut down on the lottery for free healings. It feels like she’s…panicked. That’s just my perception. She’s generating as much gold as she can, even though it’s ruining her reputation.”
The [Princess] trusted that. Lyonette recalled that Valeterisa had obtained the [Restoration] spell—if the Healer knew that, she might be trying to cash in on her power while she could.
“I assume that doesn’t help the mood of the city.”
“No. I witnessed several fights, and it struck me as unsafe. Only her Named-rank bodyguard and the adventurers keep order around the place. And…Shriekblade. But she seems like she’s gone wild. All the [Drug Dealers] and the [Fences] I spoke to knew her, but they were terrified.”
“Oh, Tessa. Is—why is she like that?”
Vaulont rubbed at his stomach and avoided meeting her eyes.
“At a guess? I think she’s making use of the Healer’s talents.”
Lyonette gave him a blank look.
“But she said the Healer could cure her…”
Then she remembered what Tessa used to say, and Vaulont explained.
“Healing resets you. It also means if you were resistant to a drug, you’re back to square one. Or so I’ve heard. She could go on binges and then reset—”
The worst thing for an addict to face. One of Roshal’s agents had done something to her. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut.
“And the moment you ran into her, she attacked you?”
Vaulont shifted and glanced out the window.
“She…detected me. I thought my approach was good, but she was too vigilant despite whatever she was on. At least some of it was Selphid’s Dust. That heightens your senses. She only stopped attacking when I told her I was here on your orders. Then she fled.”
“She would have killed you unless you were high-level or…you.”
Lyonette eyed his wounds, which were still visibly healing, and Vaulont shrugged.
“I’d do the same thing if I thought someone dangerous at my level was approaching. I got away, and I could have put up a good fight if I were trying to kill her…but with respect, I don’t want to do that again.”
He gave her a mildly embarrassed gaze, recalling his boasts to her yesterday, but she just patted the blanket over his knee.
“You’ve given me enough, Vaulont. Knowing what condition Tessa is in…I must act sooner and without stealth. You rest.”
He nodded, but raised a hand. She halted at the door.
“You shouldn’t go to Tenbault until I’ve recovered, Lyonette. And I’d bring Elia and Bird and the [Knights]. Just in case.”
“She’s not that far gone.”
Lyonette wanted to believe that, but Vaulont just shrugged.
“There’s also Crowdcaller Merdon. If the Healer thinks she’s losing her best bodyguard—and she needs Tessa with the unrest—she might act rashly.”
A warning well needed. Lyonette sighed. But then she squared her shoulders.
Take my life one battle at a time. She thanked Vaulont and headed downstairs for a new encounter. She thought it was going to be Liscor’s envoy. But that [Negotiator] was outclassed.
 
——
 
A man was waiting for Lyonette as Mrsha and Nanette waited for breakfast. Which was a jambalaya, courtesy of Imani’s recipes, delivered with a flourish by Calescent.
The Gnollish [Negotiator] drew back at the advent of the Goblin. He backed up a step—and then kept backing up until he nearly hit a wall and was utterly confused. He tried to move forwards—but it was like a force was pressing him against the wall.
Not Ser Dalimont. The Gnoll began to open his mouth—and a friendly, clawed hand clasped his shoulder.
“[Lose a Step, Lose Ten Feet]. You can’t flinch when you want something. You need to smile at a Creler, young man. Here to see the Princess?”
“What? I—yes. I’m Negotiator Harclaw, on the business of Liscor’s Council—”
He found himself shaking hands with a Drake who was heavy-set and wearing robes. Harclaw was a no-nonsense Gnoll used to arguing with [Merchants] and busybodies. Not the inn, but every other [Negotiator] had failed. He had a firm handshake—but this Drake had a handshake you could use to hold a bridge together.
One bright eye blasted Harclaw like a [Lightbeam] spell, and the dizzy [Negotiator] stumbled. Diplomat Nerul caught him, eased him into a seat, and waved a hand.
“A drink for my friend here. Pardon me, young man, but I’m on urgent business as well. Salazsar. You know how it is. A bit of a lesson—mind what you gulp and hope you level.”
“Uh—uh—thank you. Did you say—?”
Woozy, stunned, the poor young Gnoll reached for the cup that Nerul had paid for and took a deep gulp. Then he choked as the burning glass of clear alcohol hit his stomach like a punch. He gave the Cave Goblin a betrayed eye. Asgra just rubbed her hands together.
“This fun after all!”
She skipped off as Nerul barrelled towards Lyonette, a smile on his face.
Salazsar’s strongest [Diplomat]—perhaps the highest-levelled in all the Walled Cities—walked towards Lyonette, who was having breakfast with her daughters and discussing the day’s events with them.
Lyonette did not need more headaches, a fact that the staff and her bodyguards knew quite well. Besides, there was decorum to having a quiet breakfast. So Ser Dalimont moved to intercept as a Calanferian servant tried to pull the old ‘water glass’ distraction.
“Oops, I’m so sorry, s—”
Nerul whirled like a [Dancer], caught the tripping young man by the arm, and had him in a seat with the tray balanced. He patted the [Servant]’s shoulder.
“Not to worry, young man, it happens to us all. Let’s have [No More Accidents], shall we?”
A wink, and Xinthe stirred from her spot where she was watching him. Oh, he was good. But he was coming at Dalimont now, and the Thronebearer was beaming. Ready to offer Nerul a meal and a drink and block him physically from reaching Lyonette.
Nerul opened his mouth to call out, and Dalimont triggered a [Silence] spell.
Unfortunately, he was up against the Drake who’d negotiated the end of the Retirement War between Oteslia and Salazsar. Nerul saw the Thronebearer activating Skills, gathering himself like a bulwark of propriety—and Dalimont had levelled too. A Gold-ranker’s strength in the form of a [Knight], armor and dignity.
In response, Nerul spread his arms like a [Vizir of Villainous Deeds] and smiled. The light flashed off his teeth and ostentatious, bejeweled rings. His own aura coalesced until you could see vivid purple trails of what seemed like smoke rising from his body.
Aura clash? Dalimont eyed Nerul as the Drake approached, arms still outspread like the final encounter of one of Kevin’s fighting games. Dalimont braced for a push—and then saw Nerul stop concentrating, then mouth silently.
The Thronebearer blinked, chanced a glance over his shoulder, and realized he’d already lost. Why?
Well—Nanette and Mrsha were both staring at the Thronebearer and [Diplomat] squaring off in silent drama, and Lyonette had twisted around in her chair and noticed Nerul.
The [Diplomat] winked as Dalimont groaned. Possibly, the battle had already been lost the moment Nerul entered the common room unchallenged. All he had to do was get their attention. With a bow, Dalimont deactivated the [Silence] spell and moved out of the way.
“A visitor for you, Your Highness.”
“Nerul, you certainly make an entrance! I would have thought the staff would put up something of a fight against you.”
The [Diplomat] sat with a sigh, beaming around the table, and nodded at Lyonette.
“Oh, they did their best, but they always underestimate us Drakes. That’s why I like our diplomatic corps. Lower their expectations and let me come in and clean house every now and then. At least, that’s how I have to rationalize it so I don’t drink myself under the table. I’ll have what Miss Mrsha and Miss Nanette are having. Hello, hello! How are things going in the inn of late? Calescent, good day to you! Hold the death spices!”
He shouted at the kitchen, and Calescent called a greeting. Despite knowing he was here on business, Lyonette hid a smile. Nerul embodied the best parts of Calanfer’s diplomatic abilities to her.
“How can we help you, Diplomat Nerul? Things have been ah, usually unusual here. Can I help you with anything this morning?”
“Oh, let’s not rush things over breakfast. Miss Mrsha, you’ve lost weight. Can I get you anything from Invrisil the next time I visit? And you, Miss Nanette—wonderful attire.”
He gazed at Nanette’s new outfit she’d selected from yesterday without a hint of irony, and his eyes flicked to Lyonette when she froze up. However, Mrsha just smiled and wrote to Nerul that she was eating tons, and Nanette beamed at the compliment.
The Drake cast around the room and exhaled.
“Goblin Kings. Damndest things. They just pop up like that.”
He snapped his fingers, and everyone realized he had no idea what had gone on with the [Palace of Fates]—not more than anyone else. But he had walked in here and was just…rolling with it.
You had to admire the Drake’s bravery. Lyonette raised a truth stone that Ushar handed her as she eyed Nanette’s new clothing, which was a blazing red, Drathian-style shirt two sizes too big over a too-short yellow dress…but that was okay because it was paired with orange shorts and pink socks. In theory, it would be a great fire-patterned outfit, except for the fact that it made Nanette look like she was two sizes bigger and at the same time had no bones.
“You didn’t even lie, Diplomat Nerul?”
He gave her a mildly outraged gaze.
“Miss Lyonette, I don’t lie when the truth works better. I delight in Miss Nanette’s outfit. If everyone in Invrisil or Salazsar dressed like that, my mood would never be dour! We should be encouraging, shouldn’t we? And might I add, the [Druid] outfit rather suited you.”
She blushed mightily as he grinned and faced Nanette.
“You should try young Salazsarian fashion. It’s all gemstones. You sew them into everything. The bigger and shinier, the better. It’s meant to offend the eye and tell you how much they’re worth. A [Thief] with a knife’s wet dream.”
Nanette laughed.
“I want something practical, Diplomat Nerul!”
Practical? You can’t even swim in that.
Mrsha shot back as Lyonette, scandalized by Nerul’s wet dream comment, shot him a glare. But the Drake was already turning to Peggy to ask another question.
“And how are you, Peggy? Run into any other events during this Goblin King fiasco?”
The [Floorboss] just pointed at Lyonette.
“Is big secret, Diplomat. You rogue. You talk to Princess Lyonette.”
Nerul’s eyes twinkled as he returned his gaze to Lyonette.
“You’ve trained them well. Asking a Goblin or Antinium is basic, but I’d expect the [Spies] to have worked up to that level.”
Lyonette blinked, twisted in her chair, and glanced at Ushar.
“Has anyone tried that?”
The Thronebearer smiled despite herself.
“A Drowned Man tried to buy several Antinium on Rosencrantz’s crew a pie and offered to pay for their entry into an Antinium pet café. They refused. Several of Xinthe’s staff were paid to talk. They did, though the veracity of their claims is dubious. And I did hear two tried to bribe the Goblins. They laugh in such hurtful ways.”
“A pleasure to work with professionals.”
Nerul reached out and took a cup of water from the table, then toasted them all and drank, ignoring the clear glass of alcohol on a tray that Asgra had brought over. Joseph, who’d joined them, made the mistake of reaching for the glass. One mouthful and he sprayed it to the side.
“I’m afraid the events in question are rather secret, Nerul, but I’d be delighted to furnish you with some details—in private. Have you been keeping up with Ilvriss?”
Lyonette spoke as Joseph washed out his mouth with water. The reformed alcoholic got applause from Nanette and Mrsha as he glared at Asgra, and the Calanferians tried to appear innocent. Nerul sighed.
“I haven’t seen my nephew in months. So—what’s new? Mostly, I’ve been keeping nobles off his back. The big players, that is. Remarkable how you can divert even the legendary Reinharts. I threw one of them at Liscor, with apologies. A nasty woman, Cecille Reinhart. But an honest conversation and she was put onto an opportunity in the city.”
“That won’t hurt Liscor, will it?”
“I doubt it. I placed a bug in her ear about the dangers of, well, bugs ripping off your ears.”
Nerul waved the question away, and Lyonette wondered what that meant, but Nerul accepted the jambalaya and tucked into it with relish.
“Ah, not even poisoned. We’re all friends here after all! It’s Ilvriss I wanted to talk to you about. Now, I could ride on over to him and try to sort things out, but he’s dealing with a host of problems, and why bother negotiating when you could just bypass a lot of talking? He’d very much appreciate it if you could send a door as far northeast as you can—I have the exact location, and he could send a rider to you. And through the door, he’d like to purchase food, potentially more manpower, and supplies, wholesale. It’s a wonderful business opportunity.”
Ilvriss? Mrsha and Nanette sat up, and Joseph, coughing, frowned.
“That’s the Wall Lord guy who likes the inn, right?”
He eyed Lyonette, and she nodded, frowning. She decoded what Nerul had said.
“So no one’s selling him food? But he is digging?”
“He is digging, and he would love a magical connection to the inn or anywhere else. I had a thought that he might buy from Riverfarm? If you’d be an intermediary, given the fact that they don’t like Walled Cities at this moment. Even if I pointed out it was Manus…”
Nerul shrugged. He was cutting through the problem efficiently, Lyonette realized. The inn had a magical door—and if she talked to Riverfarm for Ilvriss…
“And what do we get for all this hard work?”
Nerul beamed at her.
“Somehow, I don’t think gold is a motivation, and I’m not crass enough to threaten a friend. But if you need a favor to help out Ilvriss and myself, I’ll see what I can do!”
She resisted the urge to blush as Mrsha nudged her repeatedly. Then held up a card.
You’re a bad person for shaming Mother, Nerul. I like you. You should come by more often. Don’t negotiate with the Blighted Kingdom, you hear me?
Nerul chuckled and laughed at her card—and for one second, his eyes focused on the words, and he lost that smile and stared at Mrsha. Then a huge grin spread over his face.
“Me? I hate boat rides, Miss Mrsha, but if you’re offering fine food, I may just have to visit more regularly! Now, how fast can that door be set up?”
“Diplomat Nerul, Her Highness is rather busy.”
Ushar objected, and Nerul held up a claw, not looking away from Lyonette.
“The situation, as Ilvriss describes it, is rather urgent. I believe he was the victim of…a cattle raid? Please don’t laugh.”
Lyonette almost did; the notion was hilarious. However, another breakfast partner sat down with a frown. Colfa.
“Cattle raid? How many?”
“Nearly four hundred. Not just cattle, but chickens, goats, the lot.”
Colfa whistled.
“An all-farm raid? How many? Did you notice which group it was?”
Lyonette was getting very confused.
“What’s Ilvriss doing with four hundred cows? And what kind of [Bandit] group would raid him? He has [Soldiers]!”
“It wasn’t bandits.”
Nerul and Colfa chorused, and she gave him a respectful gaze. He bowed his head to her, and she explained.
“If it was north of here, it wasn’t [Bandits], Lyonette. Or rather, not the same. They can’t grab that many animals and herd them. Likely, it was someone who knew exactly what Ilvriss had and decided to rob him of food and a lot of gold. As for cattle—food is low after the winter frost. Even with harvests coming in, cattle would be better. But a trap.”
Nerul nodded.
“One of the self-styled [Cattle Barons] sold him a herd, and I rather suspect they or someone else had something to do with the theft. You know them, Miss Colfa?”
“Know them? Half my family would be doing the buying or selling. If he’s offended the Golvas or Lischelles or—they’re more troublesome than [Bandits].”
“He’s a Drake in the north digging, Miss Colfa; he was bound to offend someone! But it’s [Cattle Raiders] versus [Assassins]. I’ve convinced the Five Families to hold the [Assassins] until he’s found what he’s digging for. Still, he could use Miss Lyonette’s help, and I rather think he was hoping she’d have time to come visit. But all things considered, he understands why she couldn’t.”
That twisted Lyonette up with guilt. She had been intending to travel more, and she’d even bought a bicycle and practiced with it for that reason! She opened her mouth to say that she’d help, of course, they’d just need to arrange it…then she caught herself.
“No.”
Mrsha and Nanette faced her in alarm, and Nerul raised a brow. He didn’t jump to conclusions, and Lyonette spread her hands on the table.
“No delays, no delegation. I’m tired of being reactive. If Ilvriss needs food and a door—he will have it. Mrsha, dear, do you want a holiday from school?”
And that stupid little bully? Mrsha blinked, then hesitated.
Forsooth, Mother, is this an event for which I should stay home?
Lyonette gave her a happy smile.
“Not for this, and not for anything I foresee! Dalimont, get my bicycle ready, and I believe we’ll need a horse? Maybe a wagon or carriage. But I intend to cycle.”
“Your Highness, what are you planning?”
He was mildly alarmed, but Lyonette just turned to Nanette.
“Do you want to practice riding? Actually, is Kevin here?”
She didn’t see him, and she found out he was busy, but Lyonette was already speaking as she rose.
“This won’t take long. Only a few hours, hopefully. The door doesn’t have that much range even with Erin’s new levels. I want Dalimont, Ushar, Bird, Elia…and our most important guest of honor.”
Everyone regarded Nerul, and he didn’t even blink. Oh, he was good. In fact, he was even better than Lyonette knew, because he hadn’t even reacted to the name ‘Kevin’. The fact that he’d heard it showed he had dangerous levels—or was it his [Diplomat] class? He just waited as she smiled.
“Someone take over for her—but get me Liska.”
Everyone gaped, and Ishkr almost dropped his tray.
Liska?
 
——
 
The most important Gnoll in The Wandering Inn wore a vaguely surprised expression as the wind blew over her face. She was open-mouthed as she sat in the cart rolling down the road out of Invrisil, heading due east.
Lyonette was cycling next to the cart as Mrsha hung over the side, waving at people passing by and staring at the odd procession. Ser Dalimont and Ushar were riding horses, and Bird and Elia were standing, occasionally taking potshots at game.
“Wait, why am I here? Where’d the fat Drake guy go?”
Liska protested as she stood up in her seat and shaded her eyes. Everyone she was passing by was Human! This was the north, and the sun was shining down on her brown fur. She blinked, and the wagon hit a rock.
“Whoa—whoaaa!”
She fell over the side of the wagon, but someone skated by the wagon on the dirt road and caught her. Ishkr shoved his younger sister into the wagon, then did a hop and skated past the wagon, passing by the [Driver] as a [Farmer] stared at him, open-mouthed.
“Watch it, Liska. Nerul’s not here because he doesn’t need to travel. But we need you. Believe me, everything would be easier without you.”
“Hey, eat my tail, Ishkr!”
She flipped him off, then went back to staring. As for why she was here—well, wasn’t it obvious?
They needed a door to get as close to Ilvriss as possible to deliver supplies. But it was Erin’s [Door of Portals], and it no longer had the ability to just link to stones. Erin had to go somewhere first and generate a new location to connect to. And without Erin…it was impossible to add more spots.
Unless, of course, you had a [Doorgnoll] who could use Erin’s powers. Then all Liska had to do was go somewhere and—bam. That was the theory that Lyonette was operating under, and Liska had confirmed she could do that. If not, they were going to have to go all the way back, and Lyonette didn’t intend to waste time.
“This is sort of fun. Relaxing. Do we have anything to eat?”
Liska commented to Bird, who aimed up at a passing hawk and offered to shoot it down. Elia kept ducking to avoid being recognized. After the eighth time she did that, Bird got tired and shot the tailfeathers off a crow. She buzzed off the wagon and came hop-gliding back.
“Here. This is for you, Elia, so you do not get recognized as a horrible failure.”
She had made a black mustache of feathers which she tried to get Elia to wear. The Named-rank adventurer objected.
“This is just going to make everyone stare at me worse, Bird.”
“Ah, but they will stare at the mustache, not you.”
…Bird had a point, so Elia tried it. Sure enough, anyone who got close enough stared at the feather mustache instead of Elia’s face. Mrsha nearly laughed herself out of the little cart that Lyonette was pulling, and Nanette crashed her bicycle because she was wobbling on the road too hard.
That was it. Lyonette was sweating like a pig when they stopped after an hour so she could drink water. She gasped.
“This…felt easier during practice! Mrsha, dear, do you want to try pedaling? Nanette, how are you doing?”
“I’m okay!”
Nanette had a few bandages over scrapes, but she seemed determined to ride the bike. As for Mrsha, she lifted a laconic paw.
Sadly, Mother, I am quite short still. And my fur gets caught in the gears. Kevin said he’d work on a better version for me, but I cannot ride. My current form of locomotion is quite pleasant. Also, I’m frail with my thinness. Avē motus.
“…Is that your new way of talking?”
I think it’s pretty funny, yes. It makes all the [Mages]’ faces wrinkle up when they try to decipher what I say, and they try to get cleverer about it.
Mrsha smiled, and because it was genuine, Lyonette got back on the bicycle and decided she could keep cycling. Especially when she glanced over her shoulder and saw Mrsha putting her legs up, waving at people flashing by. She even had a book to read when she got bored of staring.
Her daughter in the sun. For a dream she’d thought she lost—Lyonette could pedal all day.
Okay, she managed two more hours before she had to flop onto her back in some grass, but then she sat up and stared across northeastern Izril.
“It’s so…rural. Colfa was right, this is prime grazing land.”
The Vampiress had declined to go on the day-trip, since she had work and, in her words, she knew the place far too well. But Lyonette’s eyes drank in the rolling hills, like waves of grass that rose as they approached the coast, and a cloud of butterflies blowing past in the wind.
“It’s so pretty.”
Liska breathed, and Nanette grinned. She was, in fact, the only person in their company who knew this area well.
“It is! But don’t go rolling in the grass, Liska! You’ll get all the nectar on you!”
She cautioned the Gnoll, and the brown-furred Gnoll glanced down at the clear nectar and sniffed.
“It doesn’t even smell bad, and it doesn’t feel bad. Why n—aaaaah!”
The cloud of big monarch butterflies swerved and went for her. They landed on Liska, who went running; butterflies freaked her out of all the insects she’d met, since they weren’t common to Liscor. Lyonette laughed as Ishkr went chasing after his sister.
They had to empty water flasks over Liska before the butterflies stopped trying to suck the nectar off her. Then a very wet Gnoll sat on the wagon…until Nanette handed something to her.
“Try this, Liska. But don’t make it any hotter or you might burn yourself.”
She gave Liska eight glowing orange stones—her Elemental Stones! Liska lay down on the wagon as Bird and Elia placed them on her back. Within ten minutes, she was dry and beaming again.
“Hey, these are great! Can I have one, Nanette?”
“No.”
“Aw, come on! I know you got them from…Seve.”
Then Liska’s face fell, and Lyonette glanced over her shoulder. A cloud passed over the group, and Mrsha glanced up as Nanette’s smile faded. But then she took the stone back from Liska and exhaled.
“Yeah. The Hundredfriends Courier!”
She raised her voice, and some people on the road gazed at them. Nanette called out, and Lyonette glanced back. The [Witch] proudly raised her arms, and her over-sized shirt gleamed in the sun.
“Until you forget their names, they’re still remembered.”
That was true. Mrsha wrote magical words that hung in the air as a passing City Runner jogged by and read it.
I miss Tritel, the Moonlight Courier. I wish he could have met Taletevirion.
“He might have tried to ride him. But I’m glad I met Valceif.”
That was all Lyonette said. Bird stood up.
“And I have a Kevin again! Another one, since there were several Antinium Kevins. The world needs more Kevins!”
She beamed as she stood in the wagon, and the City Runner pointed and screamed.
“Antinium!”
The man twisted and ran, and Bird shouted back as she raised her bow overhead and traffic swerved away from her.
“My name is Bird! I am not threatening! Stop running! You’re still in range of my bow if I was killy! Raaaaah, this is a racism!”
So saying, she drew an arrow to her bow, and Lyonette whirled.
“Bird, don’t—”
The Antinium fired a [Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow] straight up. Elia whirled and aimed her bow up.
“Wild magical arrow! Bird!”
She fired, and her arrow hit Bird’s at its zenith. The explosion of lightning in the clear spring air made everyone stare. At Bird, who fanned her wings and hugged Elia.
“I did that because I knew you’d hit it. Hello, world! I am Bird the Huntress! And this is Mustache-Elf, my friend who looks like no one else!”
She stood on the edge of the wagon, fanning her wings to keep her balance and waving her arms. A green bug-person, and a half-Elf with a mustache waving weakly. Then Liska got up.
“And I’m Liska!”
…No one knew who that was. Ser Dalimont galloped back to ask Bird to get down and stop screaming her location to the skies. They were being observed…but the open road wasn’t a good moment. If there were enemies of the inn, they’d want more warning and preparation.
Besides—that Wall Lord had sent people of his own.
 
——
 
“Lyonette!”
The first thing Wall Lord Ilvriss did when he rode towards the door being set up on the side of the road was shout the [Princess]’ name. He dismounted and strode towards the [Princess], who ran over and hugged him.
“Wall Lord! It’s good to see you! I’m sorry it’s been so long—but here we are!”
She gestured, beaming, to a door propped up in the middle of the road. A Gnoll was standing in front of it, holding her fingers up to frame it.
“Nah, I don’t like the position. Tilt it a bit more right. No, my right, Ishkr.”
Her brother growled at her.
“That is your right!”
“Oh. Well, your right.”
“It’s level and straight! What more do you want?”
“Hey, you’re not the one who has to stare out of it all the time. I want the best view. Move the waystone a tad bit to my left…can you smooth the dirt a bit where you plant it? Actually, we need to anchor it or else someone accidentally kicks it and it gets all wobbly.”
Ilvriss peered at the magical door, and then a little ball of fur hit his legs. Mrsha! He laughed.
“It’s Mrsha! And Miss Nanette! How are—huh?”
He picked up Mrsha and blinked. She was far lighter than he thought she should be. But the girl just beamed at him.
Hello, Ilvriss! It’s good to see you! You’re looking pretty dirty! And I hear you’re herding cattle!
“Mrsha, that’s not polite to say to Ilvriss!”
Lyonette scolded her weakly, but Ilvriss was dirty. He had both travel dust on him and dirt on his normally splendid attire. Ruefully, the purple-scaled Drake put Mrsha down.
“I apologize for that. When Nerul said you were coming today, I just mounted up and left the excavation site. I’m digging myself to raise morale. As for herding cattle, I would rather have not, but it’s far more economical than Chests of Holding—and the animals can graze. Except when someone steals them!”
His long-suffering sigh was annoying to his own earholes, but Lyonette gave him a sympathetic look as Nanette came over to shake his claw.
“Is it that bad, Ilvriss?”
“Oh, no. Just a longer project than most. I forget how hard it is to open a new vein in Salazsar. This isn’t worse than that.”
He lied. Ilvriss didn’t want to get into it in public—he was mostly scrutinizing them to see if the effects of this Goblin King attack were visible. Lyonette had told him…everyone was alive.
But she looks ten years older, and Mrsha’s too light. Isn’t she? As for Nanette—Ilvriss focused on the witch and hesitated.
“Ancestors, Miss Nanette. Did the Goblin King slay your sense of fashion?”
The words exploded out of his mouth, and the young woman’s eyes widened in outrage.
“I beg your p—”
Everyone around her burst into laughter. Ilvriss blushed, but her attire was just—why did he put his foot in his mouth within moments of meeting someone from The Wandering Inn?
It was a curse. He blamed Erin. First the toilet incident with her, now…Nanette was puffing up with outrage, but someone else accompanying Ilvriss whistled.
“Hey, Miss Xesci, you see that? Never thought I’d see a walking watermelon.”
One of the Sisters of Chell acting as Ilvriss’ bodyguard—along with his actual Rubirel Guard, who were silent and professional—nudged a female Drake and pointed at Nanette. The Drake woman instantly slapped her arm.
“Be nice. That’s a witch. They hex.”
Nanette whirled as the [Courtesan of Change] approached with a small group of Drakes, Gnolls, the Rubirel Guard, and Sisters of Chell. Ilvriss gestured at them all.
“Captain Shieldscale is supervising the excavation. I brought this group and Chests of Holding. May I take it that this door is connecting us back to Liscor?”
He tried not to sound desperate, but when Lyonette assured him it was, he had to refrain from crowing. Finally, freedom from the tyranny of those damn cattle-nobles! They seemed to control everything around here. It was aggravating, and Ilvriss knew that was ironic, coming from a Wall Lord, but he hadn’t caused any fuss! Well, not much.
“It seems you’ve had some difficulties, Wall Lord?”
Lyonette certainly picked up on his harried state, and Ilvriss exhaled.
“Well, between some personnel issues and the challenges of actually pinpointing our dig…it’s a problem. We keep passing over what looks like innocuous flat land, and we had [Geomancers] send down magical pulses to locate buildings.”
“Oh, very promising!”
“Yes…but no. It turns out we were finding pieces of, well, the city—but all the wrong pieces. I realized that after we got residential blocks. You see, if a Level 30 [Geomancer] can detect it…”
“It’s the wrong building! Anything still magical would be shielded.”
Nanette chimed in excitedly and stole Ilvriss’ thunder. He stared at her until she shuffled her feet.
“Well, it’s simply obvious, Wall Lord.”
“I…thank you, Miss Nanette. And it seems the inn is well enough to travel this far, Lyonette? No troubles on the road?”
“Well, it was a welcome break from the rains of Liscor, Ilvriss. There’s a bit of trouble with the inn—but we have undead working on the new one.”
“Undead. I’m almost desperate enough to hire them, if they were on offer.”
It was a mark of how worn down he was from all this damn digging. Too many Humans coming by to try and get overpaid for no work, thinking Salazsar was all richness and no brains. Nanette raised her brows.
“Surely you could get a good [Geomancer] to haul all the earth up, Wall Lord? Wouldn’t that beat even a dozen higher-level [Diggers]?”
He twitched and snapped back.
“As you observed, magic fails at a certain point when digging towards the city, Miss Nanette! Also, that much earth is too taxing, even for a high-level [Mage]! Third, when I want advice from a walking strawberry, I will ask.”
He regretted his outburst the moment it came out his mouth, but her fashion sense was genuinely upsetting him. Nanette’s offended glower said it all, but Lyonette snrked. She tried to look innocent as her daughter gave her a betrayed glance, but the [Princess] just gestured.
“We have food from Riverfarm if you have Chests of Holding. But may I treat you to a drink and meal in the inn? We have a jambalaya—Liska, is the door ready?”
“Ready! Though it’s just going to stand here. It might need, like, a checkpoint or guards on this end. Or a sign, at least.”
Ilvriss was ready for that. He gave one of his people a nod.
“We’ll take over this door. See to it, Sergeant. I don’t know if Miss Lyonette wants full traffic, but I want a little outpost here.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
Then, the Drake gratefully followed Lyonette back into the inn. Or rather, he began to as Liska threw herself down into her couch.
“Man, I’m beat! Alright, I can take over, Xinthe, thanks. Who wants to go to some random place in the northeast?”
She grabbed a bag of snacks as Ilvriss stared at her, then saw the dial click on the door as Liska stared at it. But he was so excited to be back at the inn he didn’t ask about her. He just strode through the door, into the hallway—and gaped at the giant barrier spell and exposed common room.
Lyonette turned to him when she saw the Wall Lord staring open-mouthed at the devastation. She smiled weakly.
“Oh, that. The Goblin King did cause a bit of a mess.”
“So he was actually here?”
Ilvriss just regarded her. The [Princess] waved it off airily.
“Yes, but as I said, no one died…”
Mrsha strolled past her, nodding, and Nanette halted as she saw Kevin running with a bicycle towards the doors. She stepped aside, and Ilvriss’ head slowly swiveled. The Skill that let Kevin hide his identity didn’t work on the Wall Lord.
No.
He turned back to the [Princess]. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut as Kevin ran into the portal room.
“Liska, send me to Esthelm! I need to help Captain Z—”
Ilvriss’ eyes found the broken wall. Then his head moved to Ser Dalimont, who stood, face unreadable. To Ushar—he gazed after Mrsha, and Xesci cast around and gave him one of the bleakest expressions he’d ever seen in his life.
She’d sensed something too.
“Lyonette. No one died?”
The Wall Lord walked forwards, and he entered The Wandering Inn and nearly ran into a young Gnoll woman with brown fur.
“Excuse me. I—Ilvriss?”
She froze up, then backed away when he apologized to her. Then ran like she’d seen a ghost. The sense of incongruity grew worse. Ilvriss searched around the inn, and no one was missing that he could see. Calescent grinned when he saw Ilvriss and waved out the kitchen window.
It was the same—but Ilvriss stared at the new Bird and then felt his bones shivering, as they always did, when The Wandering Inn surprised him.
“So a Goblin King truly walked through this place.”
He was speaking to Lyonette. She murmured.
“Oh, yes.”
“And no one died.”
“Yes.”
There was no truth stone that would work on her. So Ilvriss used his eyes. She lifted her chin and met his gaze without blinking or staring too long, even seeming amused by the question in his eyes—a perfect liar, trained by Calanfer. But the Wall Lord knew her.
“A Solstice event?”
“…Yes. Without her.”
Mrsha was watching him from her table, and her regard disconcerted the Wall Lord. Ilvriss cleared his throat as he gazed at the floorboards and saw a deep divot in them. As if something huge had rested a claw there.
“Then something quite grand or perhaps wonderful may have happened. Or tragic. And no one died?”
His head rose, and he met Lyonette’s again. Her gaze didn’t waver. She took in a breath, too quickly, and tried to speak.
“No…no one…”
She coughed, smiled, and spoke naturally.
“No one, Ilvriss. Of course not.”
The [Princess] thought she’d sold the lie until she realized he was a purple blob in her vision. And the hot tears were rolling down her cheeks. She hiccuped and felt for a handkerchief.
“Oh dear. Ushar. I—”
“Here.”
The [Princess] took the proffered silk handkerchief, wiped her eyes, blew her nose into it, and realized it was Ilvriss standing in front of her. He seemed ashamed.
“I’m sorry. I simply…wished to know the truth.”
He bowed his head. The [Princess] half-shook hers. She almost offered him back his handkerchief, but then realized how messy it was.
“The truth is so hard, Ilvriss.”
“I should have been there. That’s my fault. It feels like I shouldn’t stray beyond the reach of the [Door of Portals].”
He murmured as he gazed about. Lyonette almost laughed.
“You couldn’t have done anything, Ilvriss. It was just—a miraculous, terrible thing, as always.”
He nodded, accepting this at face value. How much should she tell him? Could she burden him with it? But if the inn had friends…he was one of the best. He and Zel. Dead gods. She missed Zel. She wished he’d come with them. Lyonette blinked more tears out of her eyes. The Wall Lord spoke gravely.
“That may be true, hard as it is to admit. Wall Lords, Archmages, and adventurers might not have been enough. Not in front of a Solstice event or a Goblin King. But sometimes, I think, you should be there or stand up to be counted. For your own sake, if no one else’s.”
When he said that, Xesci and the Drakes and Gnolls who’d followed him gazed at the Wall Lord in astonishment or…something else that Lyonette hoped was real.
One of the Sisters of Chell nudged the other and mouthed silently something like, ‘can you believe this guy’? They snorted until a [Knight] with a bowler hat half-rose from a table where he was eating with some very nervous men with hats and peered at them. Then they went dead still.
But Ilvriss and Lyonette were only paying attention to each other. The [Princess] gazed up at the Wall Lord, then threw her arms around him again.
“Eternal Throne, Ilvriss. I’ve missed you.”
He patted her on the shoulder, awkward.
“I’ve missed this inn too. Ah, just one more question. I swear this one isn’t emotionally striven. I hope.”
“Yes? Go on.”
She blinked wetly at him, and he pointed a finger.
“…That is Elia Arcsinger, isn’t it?”
Everyone stared at Elia, and she removed the crow-feather mustache and, amazingly, didn’t become red, just wore her most professional face ever. Lyonette simply began laughing, which answered his question.
 
——
 
Then the Wall Lord was back at The Wandering Inn. Just for a little bit. He arrived actually at a late lunchtime, which meant he had plenty of time to avail himself of the inn’s services.
Which was a hot bath, then food. In fact, the inn’s copper bathtub got a workout, and after the staff got tired of hauling hot water up to fill it, Inkpaper came up with a rather clever solution. While the Antinium worked, he vanished downstairs. Peggy eventually went looking around to kick his ass, but the Goblin came out with his invention.
A pipe. Peggy was hitting him with it when she noted the fluted end he’d stuck on with some Shield Spider glue and some new guttering that Hexel wanted to add onto the new inn. The end result was a raincatcher…that Inkpaper stuck out a window and attached to an open barrel. Easy water collection thanks to the rains.
Little things like that. The entire crew the Wall Lord had brought needed a bath; even the Rubirel Guard traded off to use the tub. It transpired that creature comforts were in rare supply at the dig site.
“The northeast isn’t as thoroughly developed as other areas of Izril, as you saw. Lots of country. And given that we’re such a large group, it’s been hard finding accommodations. It’s essentially a rough outpost over our dig site. We haven’t clashed with the locals…but they’re pressuring us in other senses.”
“I wouldn’t imagine anyone could pressure a Wall Lord economically.”
He shrugged as he ate the jambalaya with relish.
“All the gold can’t buy a thing if no one will sell. These rancher-nobles, as they’re called, are as proud as the Five Families. Thoroughly anti-Drake.”
“Well, they would be. Every family loses sons and daughters at the Bloodfield battles.”
That came from Colfa, and Ilvriss blinked, then introduced himself to her.
“Lady Colfa, isn’t it? I do apologize if I’m speaking out of turn. They’ve just been…frustrating.”
To Lyonette’s relief, Colfa chuckled at the title he accorded her and simply nodded.
“They are frustrating and obstinate. And dangerous in their own ways. You’ve done well not to react with force. That would make this far worse.”
He nodded as Ishkr appeared behind the bar and trotted over with a basket. It contained shampoo, toilet paper—and he had an entire bag of holding filled with more. Ilvriss sighed.
“Oh, dead gods. Finding an [Alchemist] in this mess…is Miss Octavia here?”
No one had seen Octavia in a minute, and when they checked on her, she wasn’t in Stitchworks. Ishkr vanished and came back as Ilvriss was finishing lunch. A panting, eyes-bloodshot Octavia ran in with Reagen on her head.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss? You wanted my business? Sorry I’ve been out—I was prepping potions for Master Saliss, and then—I’m going to have to run his entire laboratory while he’s on expedition!”
Ilvriss blinked at her.
“You’re moving up in the world, Miss Cotton. Congratulations.”
“I am? I am!”
She stared at him before realizing that being allowed to work in Saliss of Lights’ private workshop in Pallass was an upgrade. Though, clearly, it felt like work. She flopped into a chair, then saw a Drake emerging from the bathroom with a towel.
“Is that—the tub? Is there still water in it? I could use a wash. I think. My nose sucks, but…”
She had visible layers of alchemical residue on her, and Mrsha had already covered her nose. Ishkr, normally wise in such ways, gave her a good whiff and gagged.
They almost tossed Octavia into the bathtub, and Ilvriss shook his head. Then he realized Lyonette had new staff, and he had to ask about that—and Valeterisa. By that time, Nerul had appeared, and Lyonette realized she had a small party going on.
“Ishkr, can you find wherever Joseph and Kevin have got to? Bring them here, discreetly, would you? Rose and Imani too, if she’d like to come. Who else? Relc’s on duty, but afterwards…oh, Selys is gone.”
“Krshia? Elirr?”
Lyonette chewed on her lip. But then she shook her head.
“Don’t advertise. Just a quiet gathering. But do bring Rose.”
That confused Ishkr, but Lyonette hadn’t forgotten her drunk [Pavilion of Secrets] encounter. She’d almost written it off as a dream, but it hadn’t been. And she thought the Earthers in general would enjoy this.
Certainly, the normally-active Ilvriss looked like he wanted nothing more than to sit and relax in the common room. He almost got up.
“I really should visit the Council and ask how Liscor is…but I’d be dropping in unannounced. Perhaps…later. Though we have to be back at the excavation site—”
He groaned as he sat back, and he did seem tired. Lyonette hesitated.
“What if you stayed a night, Wall Lord?”
“I can’t make Captain Shieldscale take over that long. But it would be nice.”
Lyonette’s wore a cunning smile as she gestured at the stairs.
“Ah, but Erin’s inn has [Twofold Rest], Wall Lord. Even from a practical level, it would make more sense to stay the night.”
That was a compelling point. Ilvriss hesitated. His aides and followers all gave Ilvriss a silent gaze of entreaty, and he decided to put the decision off till later. Lyonette glanced at Peggy and got a thumbs up—they had rooms, and the staff got them ready.
So what did they do after that? Well, Lyonette sat back down as Ilvriss talked to Mrsha.
“What else have I missed at the moment? Aside from matters that belong in the garden?”
She gave him a bland expression that contained a tiny bit of mischief.
I’ve been doing some digging in the garden too, Wall Lord. You might be very surprised by what you dig up.
Nanette spat out her entire cup of milk, which Nerul dodged. That dark humor made Lyonette gasp, but, undeterred, Mrsha handed Ilvriss another card.
More seriously, we are worried about Tessa. She went to Tenbault and never returned, if you recall.
“Tessa. Ancestors. How is she?”
To Lyonette’s relief, the moment Ilvriss thought of the Named-rank adventurer, he focused on the problem as if he’d always been here. He faced her.
“You have a plan, I trust. Have you made contact? I think I sent a letter…two months ago. I wasn’t surprised at not receiving a reply, though.”
“I sent a trusted expert, Vaulont, to make contact with her. She sent him back with over two dozen stab wounds.”
Ilvriss began drumming his claws on the table as Nanette punched Mrsha’s shoulder, and the girl patted her on the arm. He glanced around.
“That’s…not good. I was warned by Tessa’s ‘handlers’ to essentially drug her into oblivion if she went over the edge. The tonics were so strong I had to change them out monthly or they’d lose potency.”
“Oh, that’s fresh stuff. Pull my strings, it could probably take down a Grand Elephant if it beats something you can preserve.”
Octavia frowned, and Ilvriss nodded.
“That…doesn’t sound like a solution, though.”
He regarded Lyonette, and she agreed.
“No, it does not. I think if I could talk to her…! But this Healer sounds like a wretched woman. I’m inclined to just go there in force, even if there’s another Named-rank adventurer, Crowdcaller Merdon. My worry is that the Healer might do something rash.”
In which case, Tessa might get stabby. Lyonette had little fear for herself, but the danger was there. She was more worried about Dalimont or Ushar. Ilvriss eyed Lyonette.
“Surely a [Princess] wouldn’t incite the Healer to any mistakes. How rash is this Merdon? Named-ranks are unpredictable. I’ve worked with enough to recognize the ones with magicore temperaments—quick to change.”
He turned to Nerul, but the [Diplomat] just sipped from some wine.
“Sorry, Nephew, but I don’t know northern adventurers well. The last generation, yes, but I think Merdon’s a former member of Orchestra? He wasn’t independent when I was paying attention. They’re one of the real northern teams. Haughty, with culture of their own. He’s second-rate as Named-ranks go, though, to have a guard job this long.”
Lyonette got up and decided to pass around a few snacks. Normally, she wouldn’t, but some silkap and crackers with refreshments wouldn’t hurt. Ilvriss stuck a huge cracker into the silkap and seemed highly embarrassed when she covered a smile. Another thing he was missing.
“Does anyone know what Merdon is like? Captain Todi!”
Todi jumped and closed the window. He’d just fired a crossbow through it. She gazed at him, and he shrugged.
“Ghoul. Might have been loyal. Kneecapped the bugger, but Bird just had to shoot it through the head. Showoff. Who, Merdon? He’s a hot-tempered bastard. I’ve gone drinking with him—when he’s flush with coin, he’ll buy the entire tavern drinks. He spends gold like he’s got a hole in his bag of holding. No head for that—or his temper. I’ve seen him go at Gold-rankers three times. Lose twice. Then he uses his voice.”
“Wonderful. That’s the scenario I envision. Any attempted threat and he might decide to throw his weight around. And given Tessa’s temperament, her reaction is the most dangerous.”
Ilvriss opened his legs and leaned on his knees, clasping his clawed hands together. He was thinking hard, and Lyonette beckoned Todi over.
“Would he back down in the face of a threat, Todi? Elia and the Thronebearers might impress him.”
“Sure…but he can’t appear too bad, Lyonette. I reckon you don’t have enough to scare him. Though Bird might. He don’t like Antinium. Merdon’s a bully. He might have the class. Speaking as a former [Bully] myself, once you show him you’re too tough to shout down, he’ll back off. ‘Scuse me, by the way, are you Wall Lord Ilvriss? Captain Todi, Gold-rank adventurer.”
Ilvriss shook hands with Captain Todi, clearly not knowing who the heck Todi was. Lyonette was thinking.
“Bird might do, but she’s worse than Tessa. She’ll declare war on Tenbault and get us all killed.”
“Hey!”
Bird had come downstairs for some victory chicken wings in barbeque sauce. She thought about it.
“Okay, maybe.”
“Merdon’s not the biggest threat, Lyonette. Tessa being attached to the Healer is. She needs a cure, and without the Faerie Flowers…”
Nanette pointed out, and Ilvriss’ jaw dropped in horror.
“They’re gone?”
“We have the Minotaur’s Punch, but yes. No more free wonder. Even so, Nanette, I don’t think Tessa is the problem. She’s…miserable.”
Lyonette had only gotten a glimpse of her, but when the witch girl raised her brows, the [Princess] elaborated.
“I should never have let her run off. I know she just vanished—but I’ve met Tessa. She needs more than just relief from her cravings. She needs someone who respects her. Who knows her name. Without that, she’ll sink.”
The young woman bowed her red hair.
“I think I’ve let her sink, and the Healer is no great [Healer]. I think she’s miserable, Nanette. I need to go there to extend my hand. It’s the Healer of Tenbault or Merdon who might get in the way. How do I deal with them?”
Ilvriss scratched at his chin.
“Xesci, you’re the people person. Thoughts?”
The [Courtesan] inspected Lyonette as everyone turned to her. Ushar and the Calanferians seemed mildly horrified by having a lady of the night anywhere near Lyonette and the girls, but Xesci just murmured.
“I was only with Shriekblade for a while.”
“Tessa.”
Ilvriss and Lyonette said it at the same time. Ilvriss glanced at the [Princess], then addressed Xesci.
“Her name is Tessa.”
“Is it?”
The [Courtesan]’s face seemed scarred, suddenly, like a shadow of Tessa’s own countenance. She spoke with a blank weariness.
“Or has she been Shriekblade so long she’s forgotten who Tessa was? I think you’re right she likes to drown in misery, but she’s not blind. She knows the Healer will never save her, deep down. But she expects nothing more. If you want to convince her, Princess…don’t send a thief in the night. Show her something to hope for.”
She turned, and Lyonette breathed out.
“Well then, Merdon. Does he have a…a way to get him to back off, guaranteed? Or will we just have to do a show of force?”
Perhaps she could ask Lord Raithland for a favor? Arrema raised a paw, still avoiding Ilvriss, but Merdon wouldn’t know her. It was Asgra who tapped Lyonette on the back.
“You should send Goblins.”
When everyone gave her a blank stare, the Cave Goblin grinned.
“Goblins beat him like drum. Remember when Chieftain Rags stole Healer? You send Redscar, and he poo his pants.”
Now there was an idea. If only Numbtongue were around…Ilvriss murmured.
“That just leaves the Healer.”
“I think I know who could handle her.”
Lyonette had the beginnings of a plan. She was mostly winging it, but it sounded relatively safe, and she leaned over to describe how it would work. Everyone was following along when Ishkr raced into the inn.
“Lyonette, switch the scrying orb on!”
“What? What is it?”
She whirled, and he ran to the mirror. That’s when everyone saw Joseph, Drassi—and Captain Zevara. Lyonette’s jaw dropped as she saw the Watch Captain running through Pallass of all places!
“What’s going on? Zevara? Is she in trouble?”
She shot from her seat, and so did Mrsha—until she saw the Thronebearers move—and the girl deliberately sat back down. Nanette was already running towards the [Door of Portals] with Lyonette.
As for Ilvriss? He assessed the situation on the scrying orb, then he spoke to Asgra.
“You know, I will take a milkshake. One for Miss Mrsha too.”
She gave him the betrayed eyes of someone in the service industry forced to do their job at the worst moment, and Ilvriss made a rapid calculation.
“One for you too. Put it on my tab.”
She brightened up and ran to get his order. The Wall Lord exhaled as he stretched out in his chair. The milkshake was, of course, all sugar and sweets, but he was low on sugar at the moment, and he slurped half down and then just started watching. When he saw the Watch Captain go cycling down Pallass’ grand staircase on a bicycle, the Wall Lord just started chuckling to himself.
“It’s good to be back.”
He chinked glasses with Mrsha, who grinned and nodded.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was back, and Zevara was up to shenanigans catching crooks in Pallass. For a moment, it felt like the good old days, only different.
Mrsha had never seen Zevara doing something crazy and stupid and good like that, and it made her heart lift. Especially because she felt like the Watch Captain deserved a win. She deserved…everything.
That wasn’t the only reason the girl was happy. She stepped back after Ilvriss had settled himself down at a table and just watched him looking around and smiling. And her heart felt happy and sad. It hurt in all the best ways.
What really made Mrsha feel good about the entire Zevara thing was that she hadn’t seen it coming. As in…Roots Mrsha hadn’t ever found a door in the [Palace of Fates] where Watch Captain Zevara rode a bicycle down Pallass and Joseph kicked a soccer ball at a fleeing duo of Fissival secret agents, one of whom was named Moass.
Given the infinite possibilities within the [Palace of Fates], you’d think she might have seen something like that, but Moass, really?
The girl was giggling about it to herself as she combed her hair with a brush; she’d gotten a bit dirty on the day trip. She swore, for a second, she could hear a second silent giggle. But of course, there wasn’t another Mrsha to laugh with. It was just her.
Both of her. One of her. Both Mrshas thought it was funny, though. She was already forgetting, a bit, that there had been two of herself. But if she really concentrated, she could diverge the memories as being ‘Original Mrsha’ and ‘Roots Mrsha’. She didn’t need to—knowing that fate was moving in a direction she couldn’t predict felt right.
Well, obviously, she had [Basic Prediction (Daily)], but that wasn’t the same thing. Her basic prediction today had told her that the Picante Sandwich was the tastiest thing on the menu. Which…very respectable, and accurate. But the big things were already diverging from what Roots Mrsha had seen.
Of course, that means I’ll be less useful. And maybe I can’t help. But I’ve caused a bunch of messes. It’s probably better to let everyone else make their own and just help. Be a good girl. Whatever that means.
That was Mrsha’s philosophy towards life, right now. She was doing her best; so was Nanette, though her crimes against fashion were still probably punishable by death in some parts of the world.
So, that was why, after a quick self-grooming, Mrsha went to find Ser Dalimont. She tugged on his arm and handed him a note. He blinked down at it.
“School, Miss Mrsha? Really? But we’ve missed the morning, and there’s barely more than lunch and the afternoon lessons if we were to hurry.”
I insist, Ser Dalimont. Going to school is important, and I shouldn’t escape it all the time, should I?
The response was one that Dalimont couldn’t argue with, so he nodded. Mrsha didn’t tell Lyonette as he informed Ushar; she had the idea that her mother had been trying to get her out of school.
Because of the bully thing. Mrsha shook her head. Her mother didn’t have all the facts. If she did, well…she probably wouldn’t change her mind. She’d just feel worse about it. The Gnoll girl walked towards the door to Liscor, and Ser Dalimont held open a parasol as they walked into Shivertail plaza. The rain patterned down on the umbrella, and Mrsha gazed up at the rainy skies.
Beautiful and vast. So much better than those magnificent, endless hallways where she thought she’d die. Yes, everything was better now.
 
——
 
Mrsha still thought that, even after the third Yellat bounced off the back of her head. She had arrived at the schoolhouse just in time for lunch, which was fairly ironic since she’d just had some. Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva, her friends, were all eating at a table in the newly-built facility.
Ser Dalimont was somewhere around the school; he wasn’t allowed inside according to Druid Shassa, but Mrsha bet he sometimes came in and had tons of ward spells to monitor the inside. However, inside the school proper, only [Teachers] and the students were allowed.
They had five rooms in the entire school at the moment, but the Council was already talking about adding more and multiple schools to enroll students in. Lots of artisans were objecting that their apprenticeships would be harmed, but the parents of the students had noticed their children levelling.
Not just in the [Student] class; Shassa was teaching practical lessons, so anyone who picked up an [Archer] class from their lessons, or a [Cook] class, was benefitting a lot at the children’s ages.
That was the political stuff, of course, like the elections in the background. Mrsha didn’t have a firm grasp on what was going on, she’d readily admit. But she wrote out this kind of stuff, and her friends seemed to think she knew it all.
“Really? Everyone wants apprenticeships? But they suuuck. I like school. No one hits you or shouts when you mess up. My big sister used to get things thrown at her by her master.”
Ekirra read slowest of the four friends, but even he was top of the class at reading. Kenva bounced up and down in her seat.
“My father says that schools are a mark of an industri-ous city. He thinks apprenticeships are old fashioned ‘cause no one knows if they want that exact class, then they’re stuck.’”
Well, he would say that. He’s Pallassian. So are you, Ekirra, technically. You should be more patriotic.
The Gnoll boy scoffed; his family had been given an apartment by Pallass in an attempt to lure him to the City of Inventions. Which had worked for all of a week until Liscor had countered with an apartment for the Little Crab’s star striker.
“I’m not patrioting nothing! I’m going to be a famous football star!”
“We know.”
Visma, Kenva, and Mrsha all chorused—well, she wrote it in the air. Visma was kicking her feet at the table, playing with a doll.
“I think school is boring. I want to play all day. Mrsha, if the new Council wins, do you think they’ll get rid of school?”
The Doombearer thought about it as everyone turned to her. She was the ‘smart’ member of their group. Also, the one with connections. They listened to her opinion, or Kenva’s, about Pallass. The shy Drake had been too nervous to talk at first, but she knew a lot about the big city that the Liscorians were interested in.
If they had roles, then Ekirra was the goof and athletic one, and Visma was the Drake who knew everyone thanks to her dolls and playdates. Also the scary one; no one messed with Visma. She’d sneak into your room and cut all your dolls’ heads off if you bullied her friends.
The last member of the group who wasn’t present at school was Rittane; the young [Necromancer] girl didn’t go to Liscor’s schools since her parents thought, probably accurately, that she’d be bullied for her class, and they were teaching her magic. But she hung out after school. Everyone knew she was the cool one, but Rittane was good about not acting snobby, despite having undead dolls and being able to raise a skeleton.
Mrsha’s reply was a bit lengthy, so Kenva read it out to everyone else.
“Mrsha says: you don’t want the new Council to win, Visma. They’re actually the old Council in disguise. Wait, really? And if they get rid of school, you’ll have to get an apprenticeship. Oh no!”
“I don’t want that! I guess I want the old Council to win. Who’s the new Council?”
Mrsha sighed as Visma changed her mind at once.
Just get your parents to vote for Krshia, okay?
She was munching on some food. She’d had a very filling Picante Sandwich from Calescent’s menu, very delightful with that avocado stuff that Imani had found. But she always had room for more food. In fact, Ekirra had offered her some of his fried fish, but Mrsha hadn’t needed it.
She had a bunch of nuts in her bag of holding, and she was chewing them down with a bottle of water—again, stowed in her bag. Nuts were great. They filled you up, made good snacks, and if you were ever trapped in a place without food, you could plant them and they’d grow with a bit of [Druid] magic.
Not that she was thinking about that. Just—who didn’t need snacks at any time? Mrsha chomped down on some dried berries as well and was about to ask what the mood on the streets was when the fourth Yellat hit her.
That one actually hurt, probably because the fork was still attached. Mrsha jerked, then rubbed at the back of her head. Visma twisted around with a look of outrage.
“Mrsha! Teacher! Rinni threw something at Mrsha again!”
She shouted at the [Teacher] who was supposed to be watching over the kids. And the young Gnoll, the [Teaching Assistant] named Uller, was looking. But she didn’t have eyes in the back of her head.
“Is that true, Miss Rinni? You know what the rules about bullying and wasting food are!”
The Gnoll scolded one of the Drakes sitting as far from Mrsha as possible. The yellow-scaled Drake glared at Mrsha as the [Survivor of Fates] searched around. She gave Uller an innocent smile.
“I didn’t throw anything! Visma’s lying!”
Uller didn’t have a truth stone, and all of the children around Rinni chorused that she was telling the truth. So he came over to Visma, who indignantly pointed at the Yellats on the floor.
“Miss Mrsha, is what Visma’s saying true?”
The Gnoll squatted down with a friendly, if concerned, smile. He was seventeen and learning to be a [Teacher], and several girls had a crush on him, like Kenva. However, his good temper and way with kids faltered a bit when he gazed at Mrsha.
Mrsha, the white Doombearer, whose mother was probably a [Princess], who had a [Knight] bodyguard, and who went to the inn. Mrsha knew he was concerned she’d do something and he’d get in trouble. So she wrote placidly on a piece of paper; writing in the air unnerved him.
It was probably an accident, Teacher Uller.
“I see. In that case, Rinni, why don’t you apologize to Mrsha?”
“Sorry~”
The Drake called out without glancing at Mrsha, and that was that. Visma glared daggers as she sat back down and whispered to their group. Uller was keeping an eye on them, so more Yellats didn’t come flying their way.
“Mrsha! She was doing that on purpose and you know it!”
Yes, but what’s Uller going to do? Put her in time-out? That’ll just make her madder.
“She already hates you, Mrsha. You should report her! Bad people shouldn’t be allowed to keep doing that.”
Kenva pointed out. Ekirra’s eyes were almost crossing with the stress of this new problem in their school lives. He whined.
“Rinni isn’t nice to Mrsha. But she’s nice to me.”
“That’s because you’re popular and everyone likes the Little Crabs, Ekirra. But she’s mean to Mrsha, and you’re my boyfriend.”
“So?”
“So, you have to defend Mrsha! Go beat her up!”
The [Striker] hesitated as he tried to work out how this logic made sense. He whined louder.
“But she’s friends with Golly, and he’s bigger than me!”
“Just kick him in the testicles with your kicking Skill! Or I’ll have to push Rinni into the sewers and hope the undead rat eats her!”
“Visma! That’s wrong!”
They began arguing about Rinni, and Mrsha glanced around the lunchroom. Her little quartet of friends weren’t pariahs. Far from it; Visma and Ekirra were very popular, but they sat alone in moments like that. It was her, she knew.
She was from the inn. She was Mrsha. If Rinni and her friends hated Mrsha’s guts, well, the other students were a mix of nervous or wary of her. Mrsha didn’t know them well, only a few of the girls in other classes like Hickery or Comrei. And she suspected she scared them too.
There was a hiss from Rinni’s table as Mrsha saw the Drake giving her a death-stare. And Mrsha?
The Gnoll girl just waved until Rinni leapt up to use the bathrooms, outraged. Like her mother, Mrsha just sighed. She wasn’t bothered by the flying Yellats or even the other bullying. Because she got it. Old Mrsha would have been borrowing Calescent’s death-spice and probably have caused a huge incident with the parents.
This Mrsha just felt bad for Rinni. Because she had done what the old Mrsha would have never thought to do.
She’d asked herself a question. Why does Rinni hate me?
The answer might depress you.
 
——
 
The truth was that nothing a child could do to her would come anywhere close to the [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha believed that as they filed into their evening lesson, which was geography.
“Alright, everyone. Take a seat! Today, we’re studying Drake cities and Chandrar! Drake cities make a lot of goods that are very important for cities like Liscor or even Invrisil! Because of the Trade Roads, everyone can get what they need! Tell me, does anyone know where Prelons come from?”
“Oteslia, Miss Shassa?”
The [Druid] had a pointer and a map, and she laughed as Ekirra waved a paw.
“Yes, that’s true, Ekirra. But there’s another city that grows Prelons. Who knows the answer?”
Cellidel. Mrsha knew that because of Relc, but she didn’t raise her paw. She had a reputation as a know-it-all, because her knowledge of other nations was already far stronger than most. Instead, she cracked open a book from the school. It was a storybook about other nations, with little hand-drawn illustrations and anecdotes about their cities and cultures.
A textbook from Oteslia. Mrsha paged to the Chandrarian section and eyed a Djinni flying over the page. Merreid, the Shield Kingdom. She began to read. Druid Shassa noticed, of course, but she let Mrsha read with only a single question her way.
“Mrsha? Do you know what Marwsh is famous for? Can you point to it on a map?”
Mrsha squinted up at the map and missed Marwsh when she was called up to the board, but she did know it had big cats.
“Very good, Mrsha! Though it’s not known for that as a trade expert—how did you know about Marwsh? Did your tribe visit it?”
Mrsha shook her head and wrote.
No, the Horns of Hammerad went by there and Ceria said that they had cats.
To her credit, Druid Shassa only wavered a millisecond before clapping her claws together.
“The Horns! Oh my! Well, friends going travelling is a wonderful way to get to know other cities! Thank you, Mrsha. Does anyone else have friends who’ve gone to Marwsh or other cities?”
She was very good with the kids. But Mrsha felt a bit bad for her; she had to have trouble with someone like Mrsha. Certainly, a few of the other students had given Mrsha that awed look mixed with denial. She couldn’t help it, and she’d stopped trying to play down these things.
I know the Horns. I can’t lie about who I am. Mrsha went back to her book; she could read it or daydream quite happily in classes like this. But when she sat down, she leapt up with such an expression of alarm that Shassa blinked.
“Something wrong, Mrsha?”
The girl was silent, but she rubbed at her behind—it was Kenva who spotted the little nail sticking out Mrsha’s kilt.
“Miss Shassa, a nail!”
It hadn’t gotten far into Mrsha’s skin because of her fur, but it had still hurt quite a lot! Mrsha rubbed at her butt as Shassa grew alarmed.
“How did that get there? Who put that there?”
She swivelled, a severe expression on her face, but the culprit didn’t reveal themselves. However, Mrsha’s eyes moved to Rinni, and she saw the Drake giving her a triumphant stare.
“Miss Rinni? Do you have anything to say?”
“I didn’t do it, Miss Shassa! I swear it on a truth stone!”
The girl gave Shassa an innocent look, and she was indeed far too far away from Mrsha to have planted the nail. The [Druid] hesitated, and her eyes fixed on Mrsha.
“Mrsha, are you hurt? Did you see who did it?”
The [Druid] was using her wildspeaking telepathy to communicate with Mrsha. But Mrsha, who had established she wasn’t bleeding, just shrugged.
“Nope. Sorry.”
“I see. Well then, I think we need to have a lesson on bullying.”
The [Druid]’s voice was very severe, and she changed subjects as Mrsha saw Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva gazing at her worriedly. She waved to show she was unharmed and sat back in her chair. Even now, Rinni was glaring hatred at her, and Mrsha?
She still felt bad for Rinni.
 
——
 
Ser Dalimont found Mrsha after Shassa’s class, during recess. They had a small playground to run around in, and the [Knight] whispered to Mrsha through a window.
“Miss Mrsha, do you need a healing potion or bandage? I have observed the culprit, the Gnoll boy, Golly. As directed by Miss Rinni. I will bring the matter up discreetly with Miss Shassa.”
Mrsha stared at the [Knight]’s face through the cracked-open window. She wrote for a second, then handed him a note.
Do you ever feel like your splendid talents are being wasted performing guard-duty for a child in school, Ser Dalimont?
He blinked at the message, then smiled faintly.
“I consider this a lull between storms, and I wouldn’t assume working for Princess Seraphel would necessarily be more bracing, Miss Mrsha.”
Fair enough, she supposed. Mrsha wrote again.
I’m not a tattletale, and neither are you, Dalimont. Leave it be.
“But Miss Mrsha, that nail might have hurt you—”
Rinni hates me because she blames the inn for killing her father. She has every right to be mad. Maybe not at me. Kicking her out of school isn’t the right thing to do either. So don’t tell my mother, got it?
That was the reason. Dalimont hesitated, but he’d been the one who had ferreted that information out for her. Mrsha turned her head and saw the Drake girl staring at her.
The tragedy of Rinni was simple, straightforwards, and not Mrsha’s fault—but also Mrsha’s fault. The worst part was that her father hadn’t died to one of the artillery spells hitting Liscor. It had been after Erin had been shot by Hectval’s [Soldiers]. He’d been part of the militia-army that had gone to fight Hectval. One of the casualties.
Of course she hated The Wandering Inn. And Mrsha was her only target—the Gnoll girl got it. Ser Dalimont nodded after a second, and Mrsha walked back over to the kids, who were playing dodgeball across the playground. She was waving at Visma and Kenva, who were throwing down balls at Ekirra and a gang of his friends trying to besiege them, when someone nailed her with a ball to the back of the head at point blank range.
Ow.
“Mrsha! Golly, I’m gonna kill you!”
Ekirra ran over, and there was a fight before Uller broke it up; Mrsha picked herself up, rubbing her nose. She’d smacked it hard on the ground when Golly hit her with the ball.
“Mrsha! He hit you right after Rinni pointed! This time, you’ve got to tell!”
Kenva and Visma slid down to Mrsha and ran over. Mrsha saw Rinni glaring and flipping her off as Golly was lectured by Uller—Mrsha saw Ser Dalimont watching from the side and sighed.
The problem with caring minders like Dalimont and Lyonette was that they went too far. She’d been downplaying the problem to Lyonette because the [Princess] was likely to set Rinni’s mother on fire if she came to the school. As for Ser Dalimont…he meant well, but he was used to dealing with [Princesses]. Any affront had to be redressed in moments so it never happened again.
Mrsha herself was holding back, because, well, what was she supposed to do? Throw paws with Golly? She could do that. She could defend herself, and she was afraid because she didn’t know how far it would go.
The [Palace of Fates] aside, Mrsha had more levels on Golly and Rinni and their friends than the entire group combined. What would happen if she cast [Thorn Paw] and slashed him? Or just got into a fight with her [Lesser Toughness] Skill or something? With [Fur of the Fortress] on, did he even have a chance against her?
She wrote slowly to her anxious friends.
I don’t want to make this a big issue, guys. Rinni’s hurting, and I feel responsible in a way. I know it’s not my fault, but I get why she’s upset. I was like that once with Goblins.
She rubbed at the back of her head.
…Then again, I don’t really want to be bullied for the next few years at school. So I guess I’ve gotta do something. Any ideas?
“I could go over to her house and break all her toys and throw them in the sewer.”
Visma suggested. Kenva turned.
“What if I tell my father so he gets a [Guard] to arrest her?”
…Maybe her loose grasp on what normal childhood was like wasn’t so out-of-place among her friends after all. Mrsha eyed Ekirra, and he wiped at his nose.
“What if I punch Golly in the face and call him a Creler-eater?”
She sighed. Mrsha wished Rittane were here. She was the sensible one. It probably came from all the undead.
 
——
 
Hey Rinni, can I have a word?
After school, everyone was collecting their things when Mrsha approached the girl and her friends. Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva looked alarmed when she walked over to Rinni and her group. So did the teachers; Uller and Shassa were both here, keeping an eye on the afterschool pickups as parents and siblings came by.
“Is someone there? I can’t see anything. It’s all white! Can you?”
Rinni pretended she couldn’t see Mrsha; she’d already gotten in trouble for comments about Doombringers. She tried to step around Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl stepped left.
Rinni, I’d like to chat, please?
She was grateful that Ser Dalimont wasn’t here; she could see some of the parents, and he’d just make everything awkward. Rinni glowered as Mrsha blocked her path.
“Golly, do something!”
The Gnoll was nine years old and big for his age; he towered over Mrsha as he made a fist.
“Get out of the way, Mrsha. Or else.”
She faced him and wrote in the air.
Hey, Golly, I need to talk to Rinni. This is important. I don’t appreciate being hit, and you don’t want to keep getting in trouble, do you?
He squinted at the words, then waved a paw through them and spoke loudly.
“I don’t hear nothing! Do you? Speak properly, Mrsha! I can’t hear you!”
He put one paw to his ear, which had a nick taken out of it, and everyone laughed. Ekirra growled as he wanted to race over, but Mrsha held up a paw.
What would Erin do here? Wait, no, that was a terrible thing to think. What would Ceria do…no, Mrsha had no bugs to eat, and Ceria was just as bad. What would…hm…who was the most responsible, reasonable adult she knew?
She scratched her head, thinking, as Golly and Rinni stared at her. Mrsha snapped her fingers.
Hedault! Damn, I’ve got no clue what he’d do. Oh well, I’ll just wing it. Golly, I want to talk to Rinni, alone. Move back, please.
He squinted at the words, then snorted as Rinni nudged him.
“You’re stupid. Go away.”
He went to shove Mrsha as hard as he could. The bigger Gnoll child gave her a hefty push. Then he fell down.
Visma sniggered loudly as Golly’s feet went out from under him. Embarrassed, he got up and tried again. Mrsha didn’t move. Rinni stared at Mrsha in confusion until she gazed down.
“Golly, look!”
He stared down at two patches of grass that had sprung up and anchored Mrsha to the floor of the classroom. [Grow Grass]. The boy lost his temper.
“No fair, you cheater!”
So he swiftly slugged Mrsha in the stomach. That did cause an outcry.
“Mister Golly!”
Shassa shouted, and several parents objected too. The boy hesitated, ears flattening at the censure, but his attention was still on Mrsha. Because she hadn’t moved. She hadn’t even…flinched.
[Lesser Toughness]. It was only now Golly seemed to realize that not all the looks at him were outrage, but apprehension. And Visma making punching motions and shouting for Mrsha to ‘kill him dead’ didn’t help.
Mrsha leaned forwards and wrote tiny words in the air.
Golly, go away, please. I just want to make peace with Rinni. I’ve got no quarrel with you, and you don’t with me.
She stared up earnestly at him with her brown eyes. He hesitated—glanced at Rinni, who was jabbing at him with a claw—and then slunk backwards. He kept his eyes on Mrsha and didn’t turn around, like someone backing away from a wild animal. Then he let Shassa scold him.
The angry young Drake was glaring at her soon-to-be-former boyfriend, but she realized, suddenly, that all her friends were somewhere else. Mrsha rubbed at her stomach absently as Rinni backed up a few steps.
“I’m not afraid of you!”
I hope you’re not afraid. I haven’t done anything to you, Rinni. And I’m not scary, I think. I just want you to stop bullying me, please. I know you’re mad at the inn, but I didn’t do anything to you. And I don’t want to be harassed. Can’t we just agree to not get along in peace at school?
Mrsha had worked on her note, and she felt it was the most reasonable offer she could make. Rinni squinted at the words, eyes darting left and right, then she paled.
“I hate you! You and that stupid inn and—you think you’re special, so everyone’s got to be nice to you and treat you well! Like Miss Shassa! She only lets you here because she’s scared of those Goblins and Antinium!”
She pointed at Shassa. Mrsha just stared at Rinni, wondering what to do.
Okay, maybe I do hit her and she’ll either try to kill me or be scared? That’s not an option. What am I supposed to do, apologize? For what? Just tell on her until she quits? Defend myself?
Mrsha was about to write a subtle threat out in the air—paper left too much of a trail of evidence—when someone cleared his throat, and her heart sank. Oh no.
“Excuse me, Miss Mrsha, Miss Rinni? I believe this dispute between the two of you has reached a tipping point. I do apologize, Miss Mrsha, but I did have to go back to the inn for reinforcements.”
Ser Dalimont made Rinni back up several steps. Mrsha closed her eyes and prayed.
Please, not Mother. Not Mother…
To her absolute relief, the first person she saw behind Dalimont wasn’t Lyonette with one of her death-smiles. It was, in fact, a nervous, yellow-scaled Drake with spectacles.
“Rinni! What is going on? Did that boy just hit Miss Mrsha?”
“Mother!”
Rinni paled as Ser Dalimont let the very nervous Drake approach. Wasn’t she a [Librarian] or something…? Mrsha began to get a bad feeling as she started to apologize.
“Knight, sir, I am so sorry—please, let’s not make this an issue! Rinni, apologize and come here, now!”
Dalimont, you pig turd, you’re pressuring Rinni’s mom? That’s low! Mrsha was giving Dalimont a glower of her own. It might work, but it felt nasty. However, the Thronebearer returned her gaze calmly. He stepped to one side with a bow.
“I hope this can all be talked out, Miss Chilette. It’s slightly more than a squabble between children, but there is, to my mind, no need to bring this beyond the parties here. Certainly not back to Miss Lyonette, who can be a tad bit unreasonable in these matters…may I introduce you to an adjudicator whom I believe can resolve the issue? We’ll follow along, and if I may buy you a coffee?”
Who did he have with him? Ishkr? Nerul? Actually, Nerul might work. Mrsha needed a real [Diplomat] for this moment. She was searching for the familiar bulk of the Drake when she realized she couldn’t see anyone behind Dalimont.
Then he stepped aside and revealed a young woman wearing colorful blue suspenders and a red t-shirt. She had a yellow parasol with blue ducks still dripping with rain, and her boots were terribly red.
Nanette Weishart bowed to the surprised mother and daughter, and she had a backward baseball cap on her head. The walking affront against good clothing and witch smiled at Mrsha.
“Hello, Miss Chilette. And hello, Miss Rinni! I’m Witch Nanette, of The Wandering Inn. Mrsha’s older sister. If I may, why don’t we talk in one of the classrooms?”
Nanette? Mrsha’s mouth opened, and she began to write an inquiry as Rinni stared at the young woman, but Nanette held up a finger. She steered Rinni and Mrsha towards a classroom as Dalimont smiled at the nervous [Librarian].
 
——
 
“I’m not scared of you either. I-I’m not! It doesn’t matter if you threaten to hurt me! Leave my mother alone! Lots of people hate you!”
Rinni was shaking with nerves as the fourteen year-old witch took a seat on top of a desk, like the cool kid she was. Mrsha tried to copy her, but she couldn’t pull off Nanette’s style. The witch’s voice was calm, and she was a witch at the moment, class or not. Dress or not.
“Oh, I’m not here on Mrsha’s side, Rinni! I’m here as a witch. Do you know what those are?”
“You don’t have a pointy hat. Yours is stupid.”
Rinni mumbled, trying to keep on being angry, but the presence of an older girl like Nanette and her—attitude—was sapping the girl’s fury. There was something gently overbearing about how Nanette spoke and acted. Suffocating with that kind smile. Rather like Witch Eloise.
Nanette laughed softly.
“I don’t need a pointy hat. I’m just here to make peace, Rinni. I know you and Mrsha haven’t been getting along.”
Rinni glanced at Dalimont and her mother, who were watching from one window, and refused to talk, like a suspect being interrogated by the Watch. However, Nanette seemed to be prepared for everything, because she changed subjects.
“Do you like cute things, Rinni? I bet you do! I have a friend here I’d love to introduce to you. Smallhoof!”
Mrsha hadn’t noticed a little travel-bag at her side until Nanette reached down and pulled out a little Sariant Lamb. Rinni stared, and Mrsha recoiled as the lamb mewled cutely.
“What is that?”
“A Sariant Lamb. He’s very friendly. Go ahead, stroke his head. But be gentle!”
Mrsha knew Nanette was a [Sariantfriend], but she hadn’t expected one of those little monsters. She eyed the lamb as Rinni hesitated, but the girl was still only nine. She cuddled the lamb, and her eyes went round as it nuzzled her face. She hugged the lamb gently, then remembered Nanette was the enemy!
But the witch was calling the shots. She fiddled with her backwards baseball cap and then looked at Rinni.
“Rinni, I know you hate The Wandering Inn. And I know…you hate Mrsha, because your father died fighting Hectval. I’m very sorry, but will you tell us about him?”
The girl froze up. She backed away from Nanette, face growing hostile.
“You don’t care!”
“I do. And I know what it’s like to lose your parents. So does Mrsha.”
Nanette slipped from the table and lifted her hat off her head. She placed it gently down on the school desk, and Mrsha felt something run past her. Cool, wet, and terribly sad.
Rinni blinked as Nanette’s eyes shimmered. The rain fell outside, but it seemed warm compared to the faint tears in her eyes.
“My mother died last year. I never knew my father. Mrsha’s parent, Chieftain Urksh, died two years ago. You have every right to be angry, but not at her, I think. She didn’t do it. I heard your father died fighting Hectval. For Erin, our friend. Can you tell me what his name was?”
Oh. Then, Mrsha saw it and felt embarrassed. She glanced at Ser Dalimont, who gave her a nod, and was embarrassed for thinking he’d go full Lyonette. Thronebearers did know subtlety. And so did witches.
Nanette had Rinni pinned so many ways, from the Sariant Lamb in her hands to the witch’s demeanor and her magic. And…Rinni gazed into the witch’s brown eyes, and she began to shake. The Sariant Lamb, Smallhoof, nuzzled her as she trembled. Then in a small voice, she said.
“Dad’s name was Johnss. He was a [Scribe]. Mom said he shouldn’t go, but he was really mad. He said Hectval shouldn’t have killed the [Innkeeper]. ‘Cause if they did that, they could kill anyone.’ H-he was really brave, everyone said. But then the [Innkeeper] came back to life…and he didn’t. That’s not fair. Why does she get to come back?”
She was crying, and Mrsha stared out the window at the rain. She could hear a door closing…but only in her head. A thousand glowing worlds, realities where everything else happened—but Nanette broke her out of her trance. She took Mrsha’s paw and gently sat down on the floor.
“I’m so sorry, Rinni. Tell me about him. My mother was Califor, a [Witch]. Mrsha? Urksh was part of the Stone Spears tribe, wasn’t he?”
Part of Mrsha hated Nanette’s gentle tone. Hated the way she used emotions like a spear and did more damage than Mrsha could have ever done with her fists or wands. But then she regarded the girl and began to write. Because she wanted Rinni to know.
Like a lonely [Builder] on her island, Mrsha felt like she was trying to build a bridge across the gap between them. Towards the Drake, who finally looked up and saw Mrsha, not an enemy.
 
——
 
An hour or so later, Mrsha’s eyes were red, and she was all cried out for a moment. She and Rinni had hugged before they’d left, and Rinni had apologized. Mrsha thought that the bullying would end after that.
Nanette appeared pleased with herself, despite her own red eyes, and Ser Dalimont had had a productive conversation with Rinni’s mother, it seemed. There was a really good feeling in Mrsha’s chest, despite the strong emotions.
They were walking back towards The Wandering Inn, splashing past a rally of Drakes in the streets. Mrsha sighed as she saw a Gnoll with slicked-back fur shouting from a stand.
“No more rent control! No more chaos! Vote out the old Council!”
He wasn’t getting much applause at first aside from a loyal knot of supporters, so the head of the Merchant’s Guild switched tactics.
“—More fairness for old Liscorians! Less bias, more equality!”
That got cheers from the Gnolls and Drakes. Mrsha sniffed. Oh, equality was what they were calling it? Nanette paused to peer at the crowd.
“That’s more people than last week. They’re not having this Gnoll. It might mean the elections are going to be closer than we think.”
The young witch was running a check on the crowd’s feelings, and Mrsha shrugged.
It’s not like we can do much. This isn’t our battle to fight.
She wasn’t going to be the one to try something and cause a full-scale riot. Good girl behavior all the way down, no matter how much she was tempted to throw a hardboiled egg at that idiot shouting about the poor [Landlords]. Or the idiots who thought he had a point.
But perhaps Mrsha was biased; no one had been charged for a place to sleep in the Stone Spears tribe, no matter if they were the lowest-level and most useless. What were you supposed to do if you couldn’t afford a place to stay? Get rained on in the streets?
Her nascent theories on property and common civil liberties aside, Mrsha didn’t realize they had a problem until Ser Dalimont threw an arm out.
“Miss Mrsha, Miss Nanette—a moment. Stay behind me. I may need to call for backup.”
Mrsha blinked and grew mildly alarmed. She didn’t see a problem, but she realized that she had been unfair to Dalimont with her earlier question. It seemed that a Thronebearer of Calanfer still had challenges in guarding her.
The fact that Ser Dalimont had noticed the shadow waiting for the two girls in the busy street was impressive enough. Neither Nanette nor Mrsha had spotted the woman tucked into the alcove of a building as rain pattered down the awning over her head.
She looked like any new citizen of Liscor, really. A motherly-looking woman with a scarf wrapped around her head, not some red-haired [Princess] or [Mage]. But Mrsha wondered how many people in Liscor, even now, could claim to outlevel her.
Miss Ebente, the [Carer] hired by Queen Ielane, stepped forwards, and Ser Dalimont didn’t reach for his shield or sword. He stepped forwards, interposing his body between Mrsha and the [Carer], but the girl wrote in the air.
Dalimont, don’t.
“I would like to talk to Mrsha, please. I insist upon it, Knight.”
Ebente looked Dalimont in the eyes without fear, and he eyed her as she glanced at Mrsha. But the girl had rather thought this might also be coming. She was glad Ebente hadn’t come to the inn. Again, sometimes having Lyonette for a mother meant knowing when she was the unreasonable one.
“—A café, then?”
Dalimont offered a compromise, and the [Carer] nodded after a second. She was watching Mrsha, not with that desperate determination like the last time, when she’d tried to rescue Roots Mrsha for all the right reasons in the world. She appeared…terribly sad.
Mrsha felt so bad for her.
 
——
 
The café served paninis and ice cream milkshakes, among other things. Erin’s cooking, stolen and probably upgraded if you were being honest. Mrsha ordered a panini even though she wasn’t really hungry, and split it with Nanette. They bought a hot one for Miss Ebente too, and a milkshake.
She clearly hadn’t had the food before, and it distracted her a bit as Dalimont and Nanette sat at a table where they could watch Mrsha, but not overhear. The woman had wanted to talk to Mrsha alone. She observed Mrsha chewing on her food for a while before speaking in a low voice.
“I’ve been observing you for the last week, Mrsha. You appear—happy. You’re eating enough. You feel happy.”
You can sense how I’m doing?
The [Carer] nodded. She sipped from her milkshake and gazed past Mrsha.
“That’s my job. I am a [Caretaker]. Like a [Carer]. Do you know my class?”
Mrsha nodded, and the woman explained with a faint smile. She seemed sort of like Miss Shassa, and Mrsha bet that she was sort of like a [Teacher], a [Mother], and a [Carer] rolled into one. For cities smaller than Pallass, perhaps? Or for whomever needed her.
“I make sure children are taken care of. I was at First Landing before this, but I’ve been to many cities. I’m not that high-level.”
Level 32 wasn’t that high-level? Mrsha raised her brows, but Ebente went on softly.
“There are better [Caretakers] than me. Real ones. I worked with one of Lady Lis’ helpers for a year. Do you know Lady Lis?”
No clue.
That didn’t surprise Ebente. She nodded.
“She worked on Chandrar when the King of Destruction was awake. The first time. She passed away—but her apprentices carried most of her levels. A [Carer] is a fine class. They can help families who need someone to mind a child. They’re compassionate, hardworking, mostly, unless it’s just a low-level one who doesn’t respect their class. But they’re not [Caretakers]. They seldom do more than try to make things better in small ways.”
Like…take a child away from a bad place? I’m very sorry how you were treated at the inn, Miss Ebente. You did the right thing, but I can’t go with you. I’m happy at the inn. And safe as I can be. I don’t want to go, and I don’t think I’m someone you should rescue.
Ebente gazed past Mrsha, her half-eaten panini steaming on her plate. She spoke abruptly.
“This isn’t the kind of thing I tell girls your age unless they’re too old. Like you. Most [Caretakers] who reach my level have—troubles. I was banned from First Landing when Calanfer hired me to come here. I was working with the Five Families. Noble households.”
Oh. Lots of sad children? Nobles wouldn’t let you take their kids away from them.
“No. But there are ways to pressure them, if you have no fear.”
She was a very brave woman, then. Mrsha felt worse. Ebente gazed past her.
“I was told you needed protection. I thought I might have to do more, but when I saw you…the last child I saw who had suffered like that was in the middle of a Drake war between cities that had become a siege. I failed.”
I didn’t want your help. Miss Ebente, I understand what you think, but I’m not like other children. I’m Level 22. I don’t think you can help me like the others.
Mrsha was very worried what the woman might do. But Ebente just gazed at her, and Mrsha realized the woman was very sad—and also confused and, perhaps, even a bit afraid.
“I watched you for this last week. To see how you were doing. Not the one before that. I was seeing a [Thought Healer] in Invrisil. I thought I’d lost my mind.”
The girl stopped chewing on her panini and put it down. Oh. Oh no. Ebente was dry-eyed as she watched Mrsha, but she spoke with a voice that quivered.
“I don’t understand. Were there two of you?”
Sort of. Yes.
The [Caretaker] closed her eyes. Mrsha tried to write an explanation, and then she saw Ebente’s eyes open again.
“Were there…more? Somewhere? In the inn, but far away?”
Her eyes were gazing at something she couldn’t see nor imagine. This time, Mrsha wrote even slower.
Yes. But there’s nothing you could have done. That’s the inn, Miss Ebente. And this was the biggest thing yet. Please, don’t blame yourself.
“I should take you somewhere far away. But Calanfer has told me to stop. So I imagine it would be incredibly difficult. Your mother will chase me, and she’s more dangerous than a Lady of the Five Families.”
Still, the woman didn’t look afraid. Just incredibly guilty. Mrsha nodded.
I’d fight you. This is my home. You can’t protect me, Miss Ebente. These things happen to everyone—
“They should not happen to you. You don’t understand. You shouldn’t think like that! No one should be here if that is what you have to believe.”
The woman reached over the table and captured Mrsha’s paw in a strong, yet gentle, grip. Her fingers were trembling. Ebente’s voice was hoarse.
“I could try. He couldn’t stop me. I have every right, and I believe there are enough good people in Liscor. But how far could I go, to outrun Calanfer? Or this inn? If I tried and levelled, and called everyone I know, perhaps I could do it.”
Please don’t. I’d be so unhappy.
Ebente gave Mrsha a terrible look, like a warrior staring down an impossible battle. But resolved…
Oh, she would have fit in the [Palace of Fates] so horribly well. Mrsha was so glad she hadn’t been there. Ebente would never have come back.
“It would be so much easier if you were unhappy. If you would just ask me, I would do it. But I’m too low-level. And I’ve already failed.”
The [Caretaker] rose, and Mrsha felt a surge of relief and a pang of guilt in her chest.
I mean what I said. Thank you.
“Don’t thank me.”
The [Caretaker] avoided Mrsha’s eyes. She reached for her money pouch, and Mrsha tried to stop her. But the woman carefully placed down some coins on the tables. She shook her head.
“It’s you, Mrsha. You or dozens. Maybe even hundreds of children who need someone like me. There are never enough of us. However it has to be done, with mercy and bravery and a plea to common decency like my teachers—or an axe—we’re needed. And I could help you or many more. I’m so, so very sorry.”
Oh. That was it. Mrsha wasn’t surprised to realize that Ebente knew Hedag. She wondered, if Lyonette were an actually bad mother or if she were actually being hurt, if they chased Ebente off, if she’d come back with Hedag? She wondered how far the [Caretaker] had gone or would go.
So that’s it?
It was just a logical conclusion. Ebente nodded. Then she spun away.
“There’s always a war. But even if there were no wars in the entire world—I’d be needed in the most prosperous paradises, and it wouldn’t be any easier. I’m not ready, but I think I’m needed. In the New Lands.”
Mrsha didn’t get it until she felt a sinking pit in her stomach.
There aren’t any children there. No one would be that stupid, would they?
Ebente gave her a bleak look.
“Families go together. Some decided to bet their entire fortunes on the New Lands. Parents are terribly selfish creatures. Goodbye, Mrsha. If you ever need help, then send a [Message] to these people.”
She had a piece of paper in hand. Her name was on the top. Mrsha took it and peered up at Ebente.
Can I give you some gold, Miss Ebente? Please? To help out? Or a healing potion? Dalimont—
The woman halted as the Thronebearer rose. She accepted both potion and gold, murmuring faint thanks, then she was standing, and Mrsha awkwardly got to her feet. She felt like she should apologize, but all the woman did was wrap her scarf around her neck.
“I’m so sorry, Mrsha.”
You didn’t fail me. But she had. Ebente stared at her hands, then turned towards the rainy street.
“I levelled twice. I wondered, why? But I took them. You understand, it’s you or so many.”
I get it. I’m happier than so many. Go, Miss Ebente, and please don’t feel bad.
Mrsha’s paws were trembling, and the [Caretaker] glanced back, once. Her kind eyes flashed.
“—Do you need my help, Mrsha? Just ask.”
She twisted around, and Mrsha saw Ser Dalimont’s face growing apprehensive. No matter what it took…the girl admired Ebente then, terribly deeply. And she thought there was no way she’d ever be someone like that woman. There were some things too hard for her.
The Gnoll girl lifted a paw and waved, silently. So the [Caretaker] bowed and strode away, and Nanette stopped squeezing Mrsha’s other paw. They watched her walk into the rain, and Nanette murmured.
“All the [Witches] always say that Witch Hedag is the most fearsome and hardest-working out of all of us. I wondered why she was at the coven for Riverfarm, because she seemed so unimpressive compared to the other [Witches]. Now, I think I get why they respect her.”
Mrsha nodded silently. Then she hugged her sister, and they paid for their food and drinks.
Painful conversations all around. Good ones. Mrsha silently added Ebente to a list in her head of everyone she respected or admired. And she hoped the living would continue to outnumber the dead.
She’d do what she could to keep it that way, small as it was. But for now…
They went back home.
 
——
 
The only trick was getting them all back to the inn before Lyonette noticed the red eyes. They used the [Garden of Sanctuary] to avoid going through the common room, and Mrsha thanked Dalimont and Nanette for the help.
Smallhoof too. The Sariant was a bit less emotional about the entire thing. In fact, Nanette was stuffing gold coins into a bag around his neck. He gave Mrsha a ‘good for you’ kind of placid stare as Nanette hugged her sister.
“Thanks for trusting me, Mrsha. And I think I actually acted like my class today. I’m going to talk to Wall Lord Ilvriss. You coming?”
Mrsha gestured at her red eyes.
Give me thirty minutes to chill out. I’m just gonna hang around the gardens, okay, Dalimont?
He bowed.
“Of course, Miss Mrsha. Your friends are at the inn already; I’ll have refreshments sent around and inform them all is well.”
The man left her alone, and Mrsha stood in the garden until a little bee buzzed down. Mrsha hugged Apista.
Hey, Apista, today was a pretty tiring day. Emotional.
The bee did a slow barrel-roll in Mrsha’s arms.
No kidding? Emotional? Since when are they not?
With a sigh, Mrsha tossed the bee upwards, and Apista flew higher, smoking one of Niers’ tiny cigars. She supposed saving the tiny [Strategist] and acting as his mount had benefits; he kept sending the little cigars each month in care packages for Apista. And what did Mrsha get for bandaging him up and whatnot? Nothing, that’s what.
The girl stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a while, then glanced around. She padded around the hill, where no one, not even Apista, could see her. And then Mrsha opened the second door.
 
——
 
She was a good girl. She was trying to be, she really was. It was easy, and oh so very hard. But sometimes, right now, the girl needed to be herself. And what ‘herself’ was was changing.
The ordinary kilt and t-shirt that Mrsha wore went in a little chest she’d stored in this second garden. She felt naked without it, which was really odd; when had she become such a clothing-person? Her mother had just let her run around naked in the inn? That was bad parenting.
Then the girl collected the rest of the objects in the chest. There were only a few, but she put them on one at a time.
A ring from the future. A pair of handsome red robes that weren’t as cool as the [Archdruid]’s robes, but close, and a staff in two hovering pieces.
Then Mrsha began to climb into the second [Garden of Sanctuary]. It wasn’t like Ser Dalimont wouldn’t know how to find her, and Lyonette knew she was here. But for a moment—Mrsha was alone. The robes of Warmage Thresk clung to her, and they were very cool, despite the sand and light that blew across her face.
A storm of sand was howling down, harsh grit passing across the Gnoll’s fur, the same color. In the distance, more dunes of sand rose across the dome, and the girl climbed towards the central hill.
She felt her legs getting a workout after a few minutes of hiking. But she used the clockwork-staff as a walking stick and kept going upwards.
Exercising. She was climbing the mountain of sand that led up towards the center of the dome. Ascending upwards, through the blazing sunlight and the whirling sands.
She didn’t know who owned this garden; it was the third one that spoke of Chandrar, but even more inhospitable than the arid garden that had belonged to a flier or Pomle’s lost [Garden of Sanctuary]. Whatever was here, the sandstorm had covered it all, and an ever-shifting mountain meant all you could do was climb or be buried by the storm.
As far as Mrsha knew, she was the only one who had spent any time here; no one had found anything given the inhospitable environment. She kept heading up the mountain, slipping, sliding down, doggedly working her way upwards with only the storm for company. But the howling wind and darkness of this garden wasn’t what she was listening to.
The Gnoll’s ears were filled with music. A crystal-clear song played from the magical W-Ring from the future. Songs that no one in this world had ever heard, unless Rianchi, Dyeda, or Rags had found the exact same songs as she had.
A song so piercingly painful that she could never just stand still when she listened to it. Like so many that had come with this magical artifact. Mrsha knew that if she wanted to, she could probably sell the songs and become famous, or do something with them. But she didn’t fancy those consequences.
All she wanted to do was this. The Gnoll climbed towards the rays of light shining down from the top of the mountain of sand, and she’d never made it up to the top. Even hours of effort wouldn’t let her climb up there, but it wasn’t the destination, but the ascent that mattered.
Well, she also wanted to know what the view from the top was like. But until then, Mrsha doggedly climbed. After a moment, when the wind blew her head-over-heels down the mountain, she stopped, closed her eyes, and lifted her staff overhead.
Then she cast a spell, and the red robes whipped around her. The Relic-class staff blazed in her paws, and Mrsha wondered when she’d find someone to give it to. But for a moment, she cast a spell of wonders and began to climb again. Up a staircase of glittering steps made of light.
Listening to the song—sung by that familiar voice.
Cara O’Sullivan had covered so many songs from Earth, and the magical ring held them all. Mrsha listened to her soft voice and knew that the [Singer] of that world in the future had been better than even the Singer of Terandria of her world. She captured every note and nuance of the song like the original singers.
Up, higher and higher.
The song, Golden Slumbers, kept playing on repeat in her ears until she switched to another track by the same band. And she was content.
 
——
 
How long Mrsha climbed, she didn’t know. Only when someone came to get her did she stop and turn.
A taller Gnoll with brown fur was watching her, hands in her pockets. She said nothing as the sand blew over her until Mrsha switched off the music. Then Arrema, the older Mrsha from the another world, spoke.
“You’ve got terrible taste. The Beatles, really? What are you, fifty years old? Only the Earthers and old folks like that stuff.”
Hey, I didn’t ask for your criticisms. All your recommendations suck. It’s all about pining for love and sex.
Arrema rolled her eyes.
“You’ll get it eventually.”
Mrsha mimed sticking a finger down her throat and vomiting. Then they just stood together. Arrema glanced at Mrsha’s robes and staff.
“Nice gear.”
Want it?
Mrsha offered somewhat unwillingly, but Arrema shook her head. She flexed her arms.
“I’ve got to start from the bottom. That’s the only way you level. I’m thinking, Mrsha, I know where I might want to go.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up.
“Really? Where?”
“Oh, Salazsar. Remember old Wer the Wanderer? We never went to him, but I always wondered what the heck happened. In my time, Salazsar fell to pieces. There was this huge uprising that became bloody…turns out you lost Sellme way before we did. In my world, he got executed publicly, and it started the riots.”
Mrsha nodded slowly.
Wer’s not gonna trust you, even if I write him a letter, though.
“Hey, I’ve got the fur to prove I’m legit. And I’m a tough girl. I can handle myself! I can’t just sit around scheming like Moore. I mean, my Moore. He’s going around making deals with everyone and working his way into Liscor. And countering the Mother of Graves; he’s got every well in the city marked, and I bet he’s tossing the cure in there soon. He’s got Liscor, and he’ll just look over my shoulder. Same with your Mom. I’m not taking orders from someone a year older than I am!”
Arrema jerked a thumb at her chest, and Mrsha nodded. She tilted her head slowly.
Just one small problem. In this world, a lot of white-furred Gnolls are former Plain’s Eye. So…you might have a bit of a problem proving you’re cool anyways.
The older Mrsha faltered, then threw up her paws.
“Oh come on! How much stupid stuff did you guys get up to? At least I don’t have to assassinate Xherw…nothing’s fun here. So—Dalimont sent me to get you. Want to get back to the inn? I want to talk to Ilvriss, but he doesn’t know me. Could you sort of introduce me?”
Mrsha nodded. She took her older self by the paw as they walked back to her chest. Arrema murmured.
“It’s a shame he’s still mourning Periss. Because he’s really cool, y’know? Hot.”
I’m going to throw up. What’s wrong with you?
She turned, and an older version of herself grinned. Mrsha walked out of the garden, shaking sand off her fur. When she couldn’t take it anymore, the memories, her guilt, her agony, she’d go back into that garden and fire a spell up at the sky. Or just climb.
“You’re older now, Mrsha. Does it feel bad?”
Arrema asked her, and Mrsha just smiled.
I’m firing [Grand Lightning] up at the sky. It’s awesome. Don’t tell Mom.
“Lips sealed. Can I try with the staff later?”
Sure.
 
——
 
That evening, the inn was full of noise. So much so that Lyonette had to cordon off parts of it. Relc was in the common room, reenacting the entire case with Zevara—who wasn’t even here! They’d asked her to attend, but she had to ‘close the case’.
However, that wasn’t the only event. Wall Lord Ilvriss was in fact in the [Garden of Sanctuary] having a more private dinner than the raucous inn—everyone seemed to think that Zevara’s antics were the inn’s fault, but it wasn’t anything Lyonette had done!
Kevin and Joseph…maybe. However, Lyonette just ran around making sure they had enough capacity for everything, and then she went to find Valeterisa. She settled everything to her satisfaction for tomorrow, and only then did she get to the real dinner party.
Ilvriss was having dinner on the grass, and a meatball rolled off his plate and down the hill. Apista buzzed down after it and dropped it back on his plate. His expression indicated he would rather not eat the grass-covered meatball.
“Hey, Lyonette, any luck on getting you-know-who and Joseph in here?”
Rose jumped to her feet as Ilvriss flicked the meatball off his plate again, and Apista went after it. Lyonette shook her head.
“Joseph’s surrounded by fans talking soccer—excuse me, football. And as for Kevin, he’s having too much fun with Drassi.”
Rose offered Lyonette a rather salacious, and pointed, smile.
“Ooh, fun-fun or…?”
“Just fun, Rose.”
Lyonette threw herself down on the grass with a huge sigh of relief. She was tired! Wall Lord Ilvriss cleared his throat, eying Rose side-long. He didn’t really remember the Earthers well, and she seemed radically different from his memories.
“If I’m taking away from the moment, we could move into the main inn—”
“No, no, I want to talk to you, not shout above the rest, Ilvriss! Anyone is free to go, though. Nerul is certainly holding his own at the bar.”
No one did. They had Rose, Imani, Mrsha, Nanette, Bird, Yelroan, Octavia, Dalimont, Ushar, Ishkr, Arrema sitting next to Wall Lord Ilvriss, and even Xesci in this quiet ‘inn family’ gathering. And Apista. The bee buzzed down and dropped a meatball into Lyonette’s hand. The [Princess] threw it instantly, and Apista flew off happily.
“Nerul’s been working extremely hard. He deserves a night off. Where’s Elia Arcsinger?”
Ilvriss cast around, and Nanette pointed.
“She’s with Calescent. They hang out.”
“Arcsinger. With Calescent.”
“He’s one of the only people nice to her.”
Ilvriss blinked, but it was a mark of his veterancy that he just took another bite of his dinner.
“I shouldn’t ever be surprised by this place. Dead gods, but this is good pasta and meatballs.”
“I worked on the recipe.”
Imani volunteered, and Ilvriss gave her a respectful nod.
“If you’d ever care to work in trying circumstances, we’d hire you for the excavation in a heartbeat. Wonderful taste. It goes splendidly with this grape juice.”
He was enjoying himself, and Lyonette shifted as she gazed about the company. She spoke abruptly.
“Ilvriss, now we’ve put a door near enough to you to get within half a day’s ride, I think you should visit more. And I certainly can do the same for your project!”
She’d missed him. Genuinely and truly, he was good with the inn, and she had appreciated his input on the Tessa situation. Ilvriss patted his mouth with a napkin.
“I agree. There’s a touch of insanity I’ve missed with the inn’s folk. We could have used it—or an earthquake or sinkhole—these last few months.”
“I’ll take that as a compliment.”
Lyonette chuckled at him, then grew serious.
“How bad was it, Ilvriss?”
He fiddled with his napkin and shot Xesci a glance; she grimaced, and Ilvriss murmured.
“Truly, it was just organizational issues. Most of it wasn’t anything to write about. I could share the entire tale, but I think it’d bore more than entertain. If no one has anything else to bring up, I could tell it.”
He regarded Mrsha and Lyonette, clearly hoping they’d talk about the [Palace of Fates]…but the memory of who was buried in the [Garden of Sanctuary] almost made Lyonette push her plate away. The fact that Mrsha was sitting, eating, kept her from doing that, but it was too close.
No one else said anything, but Lyonette did have something to bring up. Yet she wasn’t sure.
“I…have something fit for conversation, actually. It was yesterday when I had a few beverages that I received a—I encountered someone.”
Nanette, Mrsha, Ishkr, Bird, everyone sat up. They grew fascinated, and Ilvriss raised his brows. He began to sip from his cup, then thought better of it and put it down.
“Who?”
“Erin.”
Ilvriss inhaled sharply. Then Apista slammed into the side of his head. The bee was as shocked as the Wall Lord! Erin? No way!
Then Apista realized they weren’t pretending to be shocked and buzzed over to land on Mrsha’s head. Lyonette wanted to relate all of the encounter, and she was prepared to talk about the odd size Erin had been in this trusted company…but she hesitated.
There was a sizable portion of their discussion that her instincts were telling her not to share under any circumstances, even to this group that loved and wanted the best for Erin. Both on a political level and a personal one, it was private.
Assuming I’m right. I want to, dead gods, but I wouldn’t betray her trust like that. But whom could Lyonette talk to? For she had to talk to someone.
Colfa? But the Vampiress, a good confidant in many matters, wasn’t an expert in this. Lyonette’s gaze flickered around the group and landed on the best candidate.
Rose was as open-mouthed as everyone else, but she seemed to sense Lyonette’s reserve, and her cheeks flushed. Or…changed?
Lyonette felt her heart skip a beat as Rose smiled in a way that defined coquettishness. And Lyonette had never seen the word illustrated so well. Rose had changed after the [Palace of Fates]. In ways that were subtle, but right now, she was being unsubtle.
“Mother of—what did you just do, Rose?”
Imani certainly noticed whatever Rose was doing and nearly leapt into Nanette as she jerked away from the other Earther. Rose stopped and apologized.
“Sorry, Imani. Just testing new tricks. What did Erin say? What was she like?”
“How’s the Titan’s company?”
Ilvriss was so lost at sea he was probably still floating on Erin’s raft. Lyonette took a breath to explain.
“She’s alright.”
The note of pure, plain relief in her voice made everyone stir. They waited, but Lyonette let the words linger for a moment, and the smile that crossed her face seemed to spread like a disease onto their faces.
She’s alright. Then, of course, Lyonette explained fully, omitting the last part of the conversation. It took a while since she had to catch Ilvriss onto the [Palace of Fates] and the fact that the ‘Erin’ he was seeing was fake. The Wall Lord was shaking his head.
“A fake? That’s…actually very reasonable. I thought she was off, but Xesci was adamant that wasn’t her.”
He turned to the [Courtesan], who smiled rather smugly.
“She walks different. Everything else aside, that’s obvious as the sun.”
Then Mrsha began demanding answers about what the ‘Battle Hamster’ looked like in person. And without revealing a possible Erin secret, Lyonette could just talk about what she’d seen—and the real part, which was just Erin.
“She seemed better. Truly.”
That was all, and perhaps Ilvriss didn’t quite get it, but everyone else did. Ishkr exhaled, and Mrsha leaned against Nanette, who hugged her with one arm.
Better. The Wall Lord gazed into his cup.
“I haven’t had the honor of her calling me into this [Pavilion of Secrets], but she is busy. Perhaps later.”
He looked so wistful that Lyonette felt guilty and assured Ilvriss that Erin was busy—and had been dying—and it had been bad until recently. He nodded solemnly, and she sprang to her feet.
“That’s all I wanted to share in private. Come on, Wall Lord, you are missing a Solstice, nay, Wandering Inn event. Let’s rejoin the gathering!”
She tugged him to his feet, and surprised, he let her drag her into the common room where everyone was still talking about the day’s events and partying.
“I always wanted to be Fraerling-sized. You know, that’s one of the things they don’t have in the future.”
Arrema remarked to Mrsha as they walked out. Ilvriss half-turned his head and nearly went over a table. And Lyonette decided…she’d let Arrema figure that one out if she wanted to.
She was intending to subtly catch Rose before she left, but to her surprise, the young woman lingered behind. Her smile when they were alone in the [Garden of Sanctuary] was oddly mischievous.
“Let me know if I’m crazy, but I feel like you want to talk to me, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] frowned as she closed the door to the inn for a second and inspected Rose again.
“You’re correct, but that’s awfully perceptive of you, Rose.”
More than usual. Rose had always struck Lyonette as a rather thoughtless young woman. Someone with her heart in the right place with a decent sense of responsibility, but like her group, she’d had a bad entry into the inn.
That felt like ages ago. Imani had been traumatized, the others had been useless—Joseph had been drunk—look at them now. Even Kevin had turned from a funny, likeable guy into someone who’d changed the world.
If anything, Lyonette felt bad for Rose because she hadn’t changed things in any great way. She’d done good work in the Meeting of Tribes, but Lyonette only had second-hand accounts of that. Rose deserved to make something of herself, like the other Earthers.
In Lyonette’s thoughts, she had unconsciously cut Leon out of her image of the Earthers. Even Troydel was doing some good work in Pallass. But Rose?
…Something was very different about her, actually. Lyonette frowned. She hadn’t gotten so close to Rose before, but the longer she stared, the more obvious it was.
It was a kind of allure or—eyecatching element. Like natural poise or charisma that made someone the center of attention in a room, but Rose had not had that a while ago.
“What’s happened to you, Rose? I was going to, ah, ask about something Erin said. Which I hope you’ll keep private, but I’m noticing you’ve also—changed.”
Rose did a twirl around on her feet, looking quite delighted by the attention.
“You’re the only other person to notice! I’ve been keeping it under wraps, mostly. I suppose a high-level [Princess] can sense it.”
“Who’s the second person?”
“Xesci. She was giving me tips. Mostly about using protection! Eugh! I guess they do have condoms in this world.”
What was that? Lyonette frowned. Why on earth would…
Her eyes narrowed, and Rose winked at her and switched whatever effect she was generating up to maximum. Then Lyonette felt the same sensation as yesterday. The same giddy excitement as when she’d been drunk and talking to Erin. A kind of infatuation with trying new things. She stared at Rose’s lips, the slightly pointed teeth—then looked down. Rose wiggled her hips suggestively. Lyonette reached down and grabbed Rose’s butt.
“Oh! Hey, Lyonette—”
“What is that in your pants?”
As statements went, that one wasn’t the best, but Lyonette wasn’t staring at Rose’s front, but her behind. Rose’s posterior had developed a wiggle. Was that a…
“Is that a tail?”
“Hey, it’s still growing! Don’t touch—”
Rose was trying to heighten the seductive expression—right until Lyonette grabbed her ear and twisted it.
“Rose Cinevoy, what have you gotten yourself into?”
The wincing young woman tried to get away.
“Lyonette! Let me explain! It was just—look, it’s totally okay, I can reverse it and appear normal when I want! And it was consensual! I just made a little deal.”
“With whom?”
Then Lyonette had a thought. There was only one person who fit the bill of ‘deal’—she cast around.
“Where is Viscount Visophecin? I’ll kill him. I’ll get Pawn to kill him.”
“Nonono! I wanted this, Lyonette! Don’t do anything crazy! Listen, I’m just leaning into, well, experimenting. This is what I wanted. Damn it, I thought I was supposed to be super charming and seductive! Stop twisting my ear!”
All the powers of Rose’s new whatever-she-was didn’t work against the power of ear-twisting. Lyonette hissed at her.
“Making deals with Visophecin is insane!”
Rose lifted a finger.
“As insane as using the box or opening doors in the [Palace of Fates]?”
She yelped as Lyonette twisted her ear hard, but then the [Princess] let go. She rubbed at her face, then took a deep breath.
“You know what? You’re an adult. Whatever you get into, as long as you don’t bring it back to the inn without very good reason, it’s your choice. I’m sorry, Rose. Let me try again.”
Rose smiled in relief. She went to hug Lyonette.
“Hey, I was going to tell you once the transformation finished. It has a lot of, uh, really interesting features. And I think you were feeling a bit of interest in me, right? Totally normal—um—”
She realized that she wasn’t the only person with something interesting in their pants. Lyonette’s sword was unsheathed and under Rose’s chin.
“What did you do, Rose? Full explanation, thank you.”
It was mostly for show because they were in the [Garden of Sanctuary], but Rose gulped.
“Okay, fine, fine! I’m a Succubus! Sort of! I’m pretty sure that’s the deal I made with Visophecin.”
“A—what?”
Lyonette listened to a quick and very garbled explanation from Rose. Then she lowered the sword and began rubbing at her forehead.
“Allow me to confirm. You just made yourself into some kind of being of myths from your world’s religion?”
“Satanic religion. Only the cool kids like that.”
Rose added helpfully. Lyonette stared at her.
“A species that is quite literally a Demon.”
“Technically, I think they’re closer to Devils—”
Lyonette raised the sword again, and Rose shielded herself. But Lyonette just thunked Rose ever-so-gently with the flat of her blade.
“Rose…why?”
The young woman spread her hands earnestly.
“Well, I didn’t have any power, Lyonette. Everyone else was levelling, and I felt like I was important with Adetr in the Meeting of Tribes, but I never levelled, you know? And now I’m here, on Saliss and Mirn’s side, and, well—they need help.”
So how does that make a pact with Visophecin a good idea? Rose elaborated.
“Charm is one of the things my…species…is supposed to be really good at. Seduction, really. But I’m going to be super ethical about it.”
Ethical about what? Then Lyonette’s eyes narrowed.
“Ethically seducing people? Of the same gender?”
The young woman innocently folded her hands behind her back.
“I don’t know, just making people think a bit wouldn’t be the worst, would it? Don’t worry, I’m being ultra-subtle.”
The fact that she hadn’t already caused an incident after a few weeks and Lyonette was just picking up on it now was actually a good sign, but Lyonette was almost thinking her pulling a sword on Rose was the right move.
This could be a terribly bad decision! Turnscales were not a light topic—but if anyone knew that, it would be Rose. Once more, the [Princess] was wrestling with the problem before she sighed.
“Alright, Rose. You’re able to make your own decisions. I’m not going to stop you, but we will have a conversation about dangers and the inn, agreed? And you’re also going to spend a day in Miss Xesci’s company.”
Chastened, Rose nodded.
“I was going to talk to her anyways. I bet someone in the sex work industry knows all the dangers. But I’m not upset with my decision, Lyonette. Unlike Erin, Visophecin says there’s no real risk with this kind of thing. And hey, if you’ve got a soul, why not sell a bit of it? Right?”
She beamed at Lyonette’s expression.
“Now, what were you going to talk to me about?”
The [Princess] had almost forgotten about her actual goal. She began to relate her encounter with Erin hesitantly.
“This is not to be shared with anyone, Rose. I mean it. I only threatened to stab you with my sword here. If you betray Erin’s trust—but you would know about this.”
Rose sombered in a gratifying way.
“Whoa, I get it now I’m in this world! This is super serious. Swear on my life. What, uh, what did you talk to Erin about? Mind you, I think I got a whiff of something. You were acting a bit, uh, attracted for a second when you were talking about being drunk with Erin.”
She already had an inkling? Lyonette glowered, but because her cheeks had become red this time. She muttered.
“I…may have said something strictly true in the moment. Due to the drinks and the way the pavilion works. But that’s not important. What’s important, Rose, is…”
When she related her suspicions, Rose didn’t gasp or say anything for a moment. She just stood, staring thoughtfully into the distance. Then she nodded.
“Yep. I have no idea. I wish I could have seen Erin or I could see her now. Because I can see it, Lyonette. But she could be like you.”
“Like me?”
Rose nodded absently.
“If I turn the charm up, I think you might be interested in me or someone. Or if you were drunk, but my instincts say that you’re not normally going to try to court me. Preferences, and everyone’s on a spectrum…Erin could be ace. Or demi, or…it’s complex, but I’m sure she’s not sure herself. And you don’t want to push her or make her feel pressured.”
That was such a reasonable comment that Lyonette relaxed. She nodded a few times.
“Absolutely. And I wasn’t doing that! I was just—testing.”
“Oh, sure, you two are friends. But have you ever seen hints…? You know what? We should have a talk. Very respectfully of her. But the key thing is to be a good friend, y’know?”
Rose smiled at Lyonette, and the [Princess] nodded. She could do that. They agreed to have a conversation—not now with Ilvriss here, but Rose confirmed she was the right pick for this, despite the surprise about her new deal.
“Plenty of people can be happy without diving into relationships, let alone sex and stuff. I realize that I’m not the best purveyor of that message—but if she’s unhappy or searching, that’s different. The important thing is we’re supporting her, even if we’re trying to figure out stuff too. Is she happy as-is?”
The [Princess] stood there for a moment and remembered Erin smiling as she rode the beetle. A smile, after so much and so long. She took a breath and shook her head.
“No. I don’t think so. I think she can be a lot happier, Rose. That’s what I want to see.”
The truest thing she’d said was that. A smile from Erin was like temptation. One little sip, and Lyonette wanted more than a sliver of sunlight. She wanted to bask in that sun.
Only when she turned to say they should go into the inn did she see Rose staring at her curiously. Lyonette blinked.
“What?”
“Nothing. I was just thinking—‘oh. That’s what platonic love looks like’. It’s…something.”
Rose averted her eyes, blushing, and Lyonette didn’t have a comment for that. She just shook her head, then tugged Rose towards the door.
“I’m sorry for threatening you with a sword. I wasn’t going to cut you, but I’ve had too many surprises, Rose.”
“Hey, no problem, Lyonette. I’m sorry for using my Skills on you. I still have Skills, by the way.”
“You’re forgiven.”
“Awesome. And if you ever did want to see what it’s like, hit me up.”
Lyonette sighed loudly and almost kicked Rose into the common room. Temptation, a literal temptress under her roof. Wonderful.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss realized Lyonette hadn’t followed him out of the garden. He supposed she was attending to something inside, so he wandered the common room of the inn.
A full nostalgic trip. Filled with both pain and smiles, as such things were. It was odd for it to be ‘nostalgic’ given he’d gotten to know the inn only, what, two years ago? But there it was. The quality of life versus the quantity of it, or something.
The only problem was that Ilvriss wasn’t the most gregarious of sorts. He couldn’t walk up and slap someone on the back, but he did his best.
“Is that Menolit I see? I’ve heard of Liscor Hunted even in Salazsar. Hello, hello!”
The surprised Drake shook his hand, half-rising, and Ilvriss got engaged in a conversation about the activity before politely turning down the opportunity to try to survive on a water-drenched island during the rainy season.
Ilvriss nodded at a Goblin.
“Nice to meet you. I’m Ilvriss, Wall Lord of Salazsar. And you are?”
“Sticks.”
The Cave Goblin shook Ilvriss’ hand cautiously, and Ilvriss gestured around.
“Good to see so many, uh, employees. I recognize Rosencrantz, I believe. Is, uh, Silveran here?”
Erin had talked about him a lot. Where was that Worker with the mop? Sticks gave Ilvriss a curious stare.
“Silveran? He big cleaning man in the city. He never come here. Silverstache sometimes comes here.”
“…I don’t know a Silverstache, but I’d be delighted to meet him. Wasn’t there another Antinium with the silver motif? Silver…mop?”
Sticks paused.
“Oh, yah. Silvermop is dead.”
“Oh, of course. My condolences…”
Like that, Ilvriss nearly reached for a drink before remembering it had to be goat’s milk. He muttered to Nerul out of the corner of his mouth.
“Dead gods, it feels like I’m at a reunion of Zail’s old war-buddies. Five seconds in and they’re toasting the dead.”
The [Diplomat] was pouring himself a drink of wine that Ilvriss was trying not to glower at. He gave his nephew an understanding smile.
“Well, now you know how your father feels.”
“What? Don’t be ridiculous. I’ve been gone so long—”
“And you’re part of the inn, Nephew. You think Zail likes going to those reunions? He dreads them. Now, if I were a thinking Drake, and I never claimed to be, I’d wonder how I should act if I don’t want to make the same mistakes. Excuse me, now, I see two delightful ladies to chat up.”
By that, Nerul meant Elia Arcsinger and—Bird? Ilvriss opened his mouth as he eyed the female Antinium. He trusted Nerul was just being social.
He hoped that was just it. But the [Diplomat]’s advice was good. Ilvriss began to put a bit more conscious thought into his interactions. That was why he deliberately noticed and sought out the company of a somewhat overlooked group.
The Painted Antinium were all sitting together, talking and less-than-jovial despite Zevara’s victory and being in the inn when Ilvriss approached.
“Pawn, Yellow Splatters. Good evening. I’ve returned for a rare visit, and I’d be remiss if I didn’t greet you all. Could I buy your table a round of snacks?”
The [Priest] glanced up and smiled, seemingly surprised—and happy—to receive Ilvriss’ attention.
“Wall Lord, I am very happy you have approached me. We accept, thank you.”
That was how Ilvriss found himself seated by a bunch of Workers and Soldiers. He imagined his father and all his associates in Salazsar would have a heart attack to see him—and in truth, this wasn’t Ilvriss’ usual company. But the Painted Antinium seemed to accept him, and Pawn was happy to talk.
“It is good to see you, Wall Lord. I have been feeling dispirited of late.”
“Oh? I confess I’ve also been down until I came back to the inn. Digging in the north is…challenging.”
“I see, I see. Monsters?”
“No. Humans.”
The Wall Lord would have elaborated, but Pawn just clicked his mandibles.
“I understand that, I believe.”
He did? They were still changing. In fact, one of the Workers grumbled.
“Humans are very objectionable.”
He glowered across the room at a certain [Princess] who’d just left the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Pawn slapped Holytext’s arm.
“Holytext, you are not helping. Lyonette visited our Hive after so long. And invited us to the inn. We are being sociable.”
His voice made the other unhappy Antinium shift, and Ilvriss realized that the snacks in front of them weren’t vanishing like normal. Antinium not enjoying the inn? He eyed Pawn.
“Are you and Lyonette fighting?”
The [Priest] paused, then confessed.
“On the contrary, Wall Lord. We are doing better than normal. It is just that there is a rift between us, and though we have interacted more…she came to sing at one of our congregations. Which was very good.”
“The part where she interrogated your view of Heaven and appeared to be judging the Painted Antinium was most unwelcome. As well as her comments on the nature of our faith.”
Yellow Splatters rumbled. Ilvriss blinked as all the Antinium nodded with him.
“I didn’t realize there was a philosophical difference between the inn and Painted Antinium.”
“Theological, Wall Lord. It is all due to the events of the palace, which Rosencrantz and the Antinium here refuse to relate in great detail. It is not our fault…but it is. A future glimpsed.”
The what and the what now? Ilvriss’ mind was racing. He knew something had gone down, but Lyonette had refused to give him details. He lowered his voice.
“Do you know what happened? Lyonette refused to tell me.”
Pawn smiled ruefully at him.
“I as well, Wall Lord. It is a hurtful feeling only mitigated by the fact that she also did not trust you.”
They chinked mugs, and Pawn drank with Ilvriss.
“The only thing I have gleaned is that an alternate-future version of myself over Level 60 was apparently very unpleasant and nearly killed many people.”
Ilvriss choked on his drink, but he’d learned to avoid the old Goatmilk Blaster. He coughed.
“Er—what?”
“That’s what we want to know!”
Another Painted Antinium hammered a fist on the table. Pawn just sighed into his cup.
“It’s not just that. I feel as though I have been improper to Lyonette, but she has to me, as well. I hoped to rekindle our relationship, but is it just…broken? It feels wrong. It feels as though I have done nothing wrong and I am being punished unfairly. But this is our mortal world, which is unjust and unfair, unlike Heaven where one would think we at least have counselling.”
He lifted a finger and proclaimed, and all the Painted Antinium clacked their mandibles together.
“Amen.”
Ilvriss raised a claw after a second.
“I, ah, don’t quite follow.”
Pawn shook his head.
“Forgive me, Ilvriss. I am not explaining myself properly to you after so long. Please, have some dumplings. You know that Lyonette and I were in an intimate relationship, of course—”
This time, Ilvriss spat out half his dumpling onto Holytext’s face, and the Worker picked up the piece of food, thought about it, and put it in a napkin rather than eat it because the Painted Antinium had standards. Ilvriss goggled at Pawn.
“A relationship—”
“An intimate one, yes. It is meant to be a secret but I feel that I can relate this to you, as a close friend of Lyonette and myself. But now, because of that, because of the palace, we, who were once the mainstay of the inn, are now sidelined. Much like Defender Rila during the Little Crab’s last football game against the Celum Stompers.”
Nods around the table. Ilvriss’ mind was working overtime to keep up.
“Those would be the children playing football?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. Thank you for keeping up. I just don’t understand what I’m supposed to do. About Lyonette. You are a man of many relationships. How have you navigated heartbreak and rejection?”
All the Antinium stared at Ilvriss, and he was suddenly doling out relationship advice. He thought of Periss…not the same. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Well, in my experience, once something ends, it’s, ah, very hard to restart, Pawn. Especially if the other party is unwilling. Dwelling on it is a rather classic way to cause a permanent rift.”
“But it is not Priest Pawn’s fault!”
One of the Painted Soldiers objected loudly, and everyone shushed him. Ilvriss nodded at him. This was actually firmer ground, giving relationship advice to Antinium. Ancestors.
“That might be so, but backing him up is only going to divide everyone, er…”
“Colorspray.”
“Colorspray, thank you. You have to step back sometimes, Pawn. It sounds like it’s still personal. And so long as it is, you’re not going to be able to talk to her like a person. Just an ex-lover. Even if it is her fault…”
Pawn was nodding unhappily.
“Much like Zel Shivertail, you have furnished me with difficult advice, Wall Lord. Thank you.”
Ilvriss really hoped his comments weren’t being put on the same level as Zel’s words. He began to try to get clarity on what intimate relationship meant—and about the [Palace of Fates] as he tried to imagine…no don’t imagine…
The Painted Antinium were grousing at the table, and Ilvriss was actually feeling like the most responsible thing he could do was get up and invite them all to a night at Wishdrinks or a bar. He wouldn’t drink, but they could grouse, get drunk, and talk out some of their grievances instead of being at the inn.
Sadly, the Wall Lord introducing the Antinium into the world of libations did not occur. Because at that moment, someone came striding into the inn.
It was none other than Courier Salamani, a regular sight in the inn given his project with Archmage Valeterisa. However, he was performing his real duties tonight, so he was at their table before Ilvriss had even processed him.
“Priest Pawn? There you are. Apologies, I’m on duty as a Courier. I have an urgent message for you and a request!”
He handed a black envelope sealed with a golden stamp to Pawn, and Ilvriss turned. Pawn took the letter and opened it.
“Is this another very unhappy statement from Roshal? Because I have had four such already, and I do not know what—oh. No. Huh. This is…”
The other Antinium leaned over his shoulder, and Ilvriss tried to see as well. Salamani was breathing hard—he noticed Ilvriss and blinked.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“Courier Salamani, how are you? Did you run here?”
“Yes, I was doing a short run when I received a priority message. I had to turn around and run here. Well, to the Runner’s Guild to have this letter transcribed, then straight here. That was, what, thirty minutes ago?”
He’d dumped a delivery to come here? Someone was paying lots of gold for that. Ilvriss whistled. He knew better than to ask for the client. Instead, he scrutinized the golden stamp. Gold and black…where did he know that motif? Then he saw what might have been a hand reaching skyward, and his eyes widened.
Wait, that sigil. But why wouldn’t he just send a [Message]?
“Oh dear. This is a serious state of affairs. But this request…”
Pawn seemed surprised as Ilvriss. He looked up, and Salamani pointed.
“If you accept, I’ve got orders to bring you as fast as I can move you. I can cast [Haste]—there’s no going south since you’re Antinium, so we’ll have to head to Invrisil. Well, yes or no?”
“This is—I do not know if I can do this, Magus Salamani. I would have appreciated time to think on it!”
Pawn was disturbed, and Ilvriss edged around the table to eye the letter. He read the golden letters, and his mouth opened.
What?
The Courier spoke softly.
“I don’t know what you read, but if you need to wait or get clarity, I can set that up. But it sounds like this is urgent, Priest Pawn. I have room for you and as many people as you need.”
Pawn looked around the room, at Ilvriss, the other Painted Antinium, and then rose. He swung around.
“I’ll ask Lyonette—”
The [Priest] stared at the [Princess], who was laughing and speaking with Zevara at the bar. Then he paused. He met Ilvriss’ gaze, and the Wall Lord recognized that expression.
Slowly, Pawn glanced down at the letter, then his mandibles lowered and clacked together.
“No. I’ll do it. There is no question that a debt is owed. So we go. Yellow Splatters, choose as many people as Salamani finds appropriate. I will notify the Free Queen.”
“You yourself, Pawn? Will she agree? I could go—”
Yellow Splatters began to protest, and Pawn shook his head.
“I will notify the Free Queen. We are the Free Antinium, and whatever Lyonette believes, we must find our own path. I feel the calling. We go.”
They were moving before even Salamani expected it; the Courier stepped back as a white-maned horse peeked in from one of the windows. Then he nodded.
“Tell me how many and I’ll get a carriage ready. I’ve got a Master Termin ready to roll once I let him know—”
They were storming out of the inn so fast that only Wall Lord Ilvriss was left. He stood there, gazing at the empty chairs and half-eaten food. And the letter.
Asgra ran up after the Antinium had gone and cursed.
“What? They eat and run? Those bastards!”
She began to shout, but Ilvriss dug in his belt pouch.
“I’m paying for them.”
“Oh? Okay. But where they go?”
Asgra spotted the letter on the table. She began to snatch it up, but Ilvriss was quicker. He picked up the letter, folded it, and tucked it into his belt pouch. Better that way with all the eyes around…he wondered if anyone had picked up on it? He debated showing it to Lyonette—and then decided it was Pawn’s decision to tell her. He turned to Asgra.
“On an adventure of sorts. Here. This is for the food, and this is a tip. Now, could you help me talk to Lyonette?”
He handed her some coins, and she blinked up at him. Ilvriss saw the Cave Goblin study the coins, then pocket them. She grinned toothily at him.
“You is tip Goblins. Sure, I help. You not bad as a guest.”
Then Ilvriss was heading back towards the party, and that was the last anyone thought of or searched for the Painted Antinium that night. Or for quite a while, actually. They weren’t major parts of the inn these days. The next time Lyonette thought about Pawn, in fact—
Well, he certainly managed to get her attention. But that was a later tale.
 
——
 
A small aside.
The departure of the [Priest] from Liscor went largely unnoticed by all, even those who were paid to observe such things. If the Antinium’s Queen knew, well, she kept her own council, and even among Liscor, it was hard to tell where any one given Antinium was.
Few noticed Pawn’s departure, and the Courier had been paid to keep it that way as well as for speed.
But someone noticed the [Priest] leaving. Someone was very relieved.
She…wasn’t happy.
She hadn’t been happy for a long, long time. Ever since her city had fallen.
Fallen. Sunk down and been damned. Yes, ever since then it had been worse. Unpleasant. All the growing, radiant shards of power had died in the darkness, with the madness, even if her control had been absolute. All the strands of…of…what was the word?
Ah, yes.
Faith. It had vanished. And then it had just been her. Waiting, waiting for the day they promised would come again.
The Mother, and her remaining servants. But the wait had been long—too long. One had rebelled. One had died. One had remained loyal, but hidden himself—until he had also perished.
And her people were no more.
So the Mother of Graves had waited, unhappy. Waited and waited until they had dug her up. But it hadn’t gone how it should have.
The seeds were there. The children…but it was an agonizing wait, and the floods she had expected weren’t coming. She had sent wave after wave of the mindless monsters and her children above, but they were stymied. Held back by the curious insects whose bodies dissolved her children stillborn.
Even so, progress was made. Progress, however slow—but they had killed her greatest servant. Killed him. Him.
That scared her, though she knew little fear. And then had come the woman who had demanded obedience. Far, far more terrible than the mere [Necromancer] who had tried to exert his power here.
The Mother did not like these things. They were familiar to her. They glowed with the power she had been promised, but never truly learned. And like them—
The [Priest] was the brightest thing in his Hive. She could see a foreign power clinging to him and coveted it. Feared it. He was a reason she moved slowly.
But he left. Left, and she thought now was a time to strike. To push. Not to unleash—not yet. There weren’t enough children anywhere. But she had servants.
Thus, arise, General of the Unhallowed Armor, those who are bound to metal shell. Prepare for an assault.
Her great general had already been marshalling his forces, sending his warriors of metal above, but he had been scouting of late. Again, there were complications. The dead not under her children’s control were…fighting his troops? Another setback.
She blamed that building. That place. It was right up there. She told him that, though her mind and his were so divergent that the way they had to communicate—her, through the lips of her children, he, in his metal tomb—meant it was confused language at best. Difficult for her to speak the words of ‘Drakes’ they had taught her.
But she told him it was that place. She sensed it too. A place where ideas seemed to grow, and rooted, strong, like the [Priest] itself. Faith of a different kind.
She still felt it from above. An idea—like a safe ground, like mercy and protection all combined into an idea.
Sanctuary. And there had been other things.
The Goblin King. The great and terrible wings of a being of true horror. A…Dragon.
She knew Dragons, though. Right now, there were so few left. So she told her general that he would prepare. Prepare to strike there, among his targets.
Soon.
A relative word, given how long she had waited. As soon as he was ready.
The Mother slept again. Waiting…she had forever to wait, since no one would know the plan or know her children were there, unseen, multiplying under their skin.
No one. So forever was to her advantage.
Uneasily, she dreamed. A foreboding feeling unknown and unpleasant to her. But soon, she would win.
Soon enough.
 
——
 
When Lyonette left the [Garden of Sanctuary], she was relieved to find no trouble in the inn.
No one had noticed her and Rose’s short conversation, thankfully, and when Lyonette turned to Rose, the young woman seemed totally Human again. She winked at Lyonette, then strode into the party, and Lyonette trusted she’d handle herself. Besides, Lyonette’s attention was drawn to the bar instantly. The party had gotten far more lively than she remembered.
“Rosencrantz, is that Zevara I see over there?”
“Yes, Lyonette. She is having a celebratory drink with others. Would you like a drink yourself?”
He was shaking two canisters of drinks with four arms. He offered her a rather tempting glass, and Lyonette wavered.
Last night’s…libations hadn’t been so bad, had they? Imani made it worse.
“Oh, that’s the coconut milk I asked for from Oteslia! If you’ve got it—it must be delivered to my restaurant! I hope Palt answered the Street Runner! I’ll have that. What is it, a bacardi?”
“I don’t think they have those, but it’s something tropical. Hit us up, Rosencrantz!”
Rose grabbed both cocktails, and they joined Kevin and Joseph. Ilvriss cautiously offered his empty wine cup.
“I could take one of those without the alcohol. Lyonette?”
“I…shouldn’t. Not after last night. I rather overdid it.”
She blushed, embarrassed, and he smiled. He indicated his own cup.
“No judgement from me.”
She’d forgotten that he had gone off drinking! Lyonette chuckled as she accepted a non-alcoholic version of the drink, which tasted peculiar, but good! It also meant she could share with Nanette and Mrsha, which was a mother’s delight.
The only alcoholic of the bunch was Apista, who got a cocktail and began sipping with her proboscis. Ten minutes later, she was flying around upside-down overhead.
Her silly, drunk bee. Ilvriss instead took a seat at a table with Lyonette, and after they’d heard a retelling of what had happened with Zevara from a fairly drunk Drassi, they all settled back, and Lyonette thought—this would be a lovely new normal.
Ilvriss hanging out, and Nerul as well. If they were so close, she felt certain she’d see more of them. And they were both good at being in the inn, if that made sense.
“Beer pong? My friends. You had me at ‘beer’.”
The Earthers minus Joseph were trying to invent a new game with the [Diplomat], who headed into the rec room. Meanwhile, Joseph ambled over and was inducted into the table of Lyonette, Ilvriss, Mrsha, Nanette, Liska, and Ishkr.
“This is a Salazsarian game. It’s called Hoardbreaker. They play versions of this in pubs and in the company of Wall Lords. I know several versions. We’ll play a simple one. No dice, just cards.”
Ilvriss had a magical deck, and he was teaching them a game. Lyonette had told him about the gambling night while sparing some details like the amounts and the players involved, so the Wall Lord had decided to teach them a game.
Instead of drinking, gambling! Huzzah! Well, Mrsha and Nanette were having a grand time, and Lyonette had to own, this was very pleasant. She was tickling Apista on her underbelly as the bee waved her legs at the ceiling.
Huh? Why am I on my back? What’s this giant hand? Wheeeee~
Her silly bee. Lyonette was just about to ask Ilvriss to include some dice so she could use [The Gambler’s Dice]. There were tons of Skills she didn’t use! Like [The Treasury of House Marquin], which was a mostly-empty closet that seemed to act like a more expansive Chest of Holding.
Ilvriss was just showing her the trump card for the first hand and grinning when Dame Ushar tapped a speaking stone in her ear. Then she bent down.
“Your Highness. Someone just teleported right in front of the inn. The [Necromancers] and Bush Shamblers tried to stop them. They’re in the hallway.”
Lyonette stood fast. Dalimont was already gone, and she cast around.
“Elia and Bird—”
“Dalimont is preparing to activate…hold. Wait, stand down, I think.”
Ushar’s eyes flickered. Lyonette stared at her, tensed, and then Ushar spoke.
“It’s a friendly. The Duke—”
And then Duke Rhisveri kicked open a side-door to the inn and stepped out of the passage that led to the secret entrance to the security hallway. He nearly stepped on Asgra.
“I said it was me. I’m in a hurry! Excuse me. Where is—aha! There you are.”
He came swanning into the inn, dressed to the gills in a lacey doublet with a terrible ruff. Black, purple, and brown boots that were expensive without style. Lyonette blinked at him, and her sudden alarm became a frown.
“Rhisveri? What’s going on?”
Had he heard that—no, he’d been told that Mrsha had come back. But he’d vanished to stop the attack on Liscor, and that was the last she’d seen of him. She owed him a greeting, but from the way he stopped and adjusted his collar, almost nervously, and licked his lips, she suspected trouble.
“Hello, who’s this?”
Ilvriss stopped dealing cards and glanced at Rhisveri with a frown. He recognized someone important on sight, and Mrsha groaned.
It’s him again. If he’s going to cry again like he did on the call, I’m leaving. I want to have fun! And the last time he gambled, he got beat up. I like him enough not to want to see that twice.
Ilvriss read the notes blankly, then turned to Rhisveri. He was clearing his throat.
“Right, there you are. I am owed a favor, and I assure you, it’s purely that. Necessity.”
“Duke Rhisveri, good evening. May I ask what brings you here?”
Lyonette was all politeness as he strode over, but the Duke was checking a miniature timepiece on his wrist. He was rather—frantic, everyone observed, and covered it with bluster.
“No time to explain, I’m afraid! Er, I, ah—you owe me a favor! So with apologies, [Greater Telep—]”
Ilvriss leapt up with a shout of alarm as he reached out and grabbed for Lyonette’s arm. She was recoiling when the two popped out of existence. No, wait, not two—
Dame Ushar had grabbed Lyonette. She vanished too as Dalimont appeared with a shout. Ilvriss spun.
“No! What kind of spell—? How did he—!”
He swivelled, aghast, to Mrsha and Nanette, and the young Gnoll girl just slapped her face with one paw. She eyed Nanette, and the witch tossed her cards down.
“We need a seventh! Someone get Bird! And Elia, I bet she could play a great card game.”
The Wall Lord gestured at the empty spot, goggling at Dalimont and the others, who were not calm, but mostly playing it up—and then he realized that despite his best efforts, it was happening again.
The inn got him.
It always did.

10.46 L (2025-08-30)

There was a fine, justifiable, nay, sympathetic answer to why Duke Rhisveri had acted so rashly. The first reason was obviously that he had no time, and Lyonette would have objected, hence his somewhat indecorous behavior, and he knew that. But he had many redeeming reasons, and the [Princess] did owe him a teensy favor for the emotional distress caused, if anything.
Once she stopped hitting him, he was sure she’d understand.
Alright, so what had happened was…
 
——
 
Earlier this day.
 
“The what?”
Duke Rhisveri was half-napping from a tiring morning of using teleportation to follow Dame Eclizza around. House Shoel, the ‘guests’…it was this entire affair that he didn’t have to explain to anyone.
Certainly not the nobility he cared to associate himself with in Ailendamus. The Duke of Ailendamus was notoriously reclusive, and he preferred not to be bothered, but even he had friends.
Fellow nobles he associated with was a better word, so he didn’t come across as a total recluse. He needed to maintain his social standing in some way, so, annoying as it was, he cultivated a group of peers and played politics in his ‘brother’s’ court.
It was odious, but good practice, and he normally had patience for it…and Rhisveri had to own, sometimes the nobles came up with good ideas. He half-turned to Baron Regalius, a man who got on with almost everyone.
The Baron gave him an understanding look.
“Worn out with celebrations for Dame Eclizza’s return, Your Grace?”
“Who, me? No, just…well, perhaps.”
It was a good excuse, so Rhisveri harrumphed, but Regalius gave him a knowing smile.
“I’ve scarce seen you in better humor, Duke Rhisveri! A smile from you is as rare as a Hydra with one head! That was my wife’s comment.”
Laughter from the group of nobles, which included a retired [General] and a [Minister] who was one of Sophridel’s puppets. Rhisveri harrumphed again, but what might have been a deadly insult in other kingdoms was only gentle ribbing here.
A [Baron] should be able to joke with a [Duke], a [Baron] should be able to joke with a [Duke]…he bared his teeth at Regalius.
“Yes, I am slightly exhausted. Magical casting as well. You were saying?”
“Merely if we were to see your presence at tonight’s banquet, Your Grace. I was saying that we seldom do—but surely this warrants the occasion. The gala is in Dame Eclizza’s honor, and she will be there.”
“The…oh, that.”
Rhisveri snorted, but genteely. He never attended social gatherings unless he had some aim. There were limits to even the Wyrm’s patience for such affairs…but if it was in Eclizza’s honor…
“Oh, very well, yes! Of course I’ll be there.”
He huffily remarked, and Regalius beamed.
“Wonderful! Ah, on that note, do you have a partner for the event? I hate to ask, but the dance card is rather empty—we need to fill the space.”
Of course he was masterminding the affair. It was the man’s entire gift, and you had to admit he was good at it. Rhisveri waved a hand.
“No, no.”
Regalius bit his lip as the group answered in the affirmative or negative; many were married. He turned back to Rhisveri.
“I could put you down with a Knight of the Thirsting Veil. It’s thought to be rather fashionable, you see, for single men. Even a few [Ladies] have offered to do the same. In honor of the Great Knight.”
Dance and spend a night with one of the stuffy Thirsting Veil knights? Dead gods, that sounded like fun. Rhisveri rolled his eyes.
“Hardly my interest, Regalius.”
The old [General], Bathnir, chuckled as he patted his wife’s arm. She was as white-haired as he; they looked like living statues in their military uniforms, but they both still taught strategy in their academies modeled after the Forgotten Wing company’s.
“Oh, I don’t know, Duke Rhisveri! Some company might do you well! That ever-present scowl and your attention to work might soften if you took the time to relax!”
A chorus of agreements made Rhisveri scowl.
“I hardly lack for company. It’s just that I don’t care to attend most social gatherings, company or not.”
He expected that to be the end of it, but a long silence made him peer around sharply. They were sitting in a huge glass half-dome along one of the hallways in Ailendamus’ palace, enjoying a cup of coffee and conversation as they watched the sun setting.
Rather pleasant, and this entire atrium had been the former royal family’s—until they’d looted it and the entire palace. Rhisveri always liked this room for that reason, but the sudden atmosphere made him squirm.
“What?”
“Er, Duke Rhisveri, it’s just that we never see you in company. Without offense, you’re known as one of Ailendamus’ highest-level bachelors.”
Grand Magus Detrida murmured as she levitated her cup of coffee up and took a gulp. He tried not to sound snippy as he shrugged at her.
“I’m very private with my affairs.”
That earned a loud chuckle from Sophridel’s Minister of Entertainment guise! The damn traitor, the half-Elf who never showed emotion, covered his mouth, but the damage was done.
“Something amusing, Minister Sophridel?”
In his guise, Sophridel was more human-like, but he still sounded like a damn Golem. Unfortunately…his lips curved upwards in a smile.
“I apologize, Duke Rhisveri. It is just that the thought of you in a relationship with anyone caused me to nearly have a nervous fit of exhaustive laughter.”
More tittering. They tried to hide it, but Rhisveri sat up and woke up as he realized…they didn’t believe him.
“I’m serious. Come now, what must you think of me? I just don’t care to—Sophridel, I swear, I’ll throw this cup at you if you don’t quiet down!”
He raised it, and Regalius leapt in.
“Come, come, ladies, gentlemen. What the Duke does in his own time is his business. A solitary life is one for many. My own brother was much like that, rest his soul.”
They were all nodding, respectful now, and Regalius smiled at Duke Rhisveri.
“Not to worry, Your Grace, your company is more than treat enough!”
He wrote in the notepad—until Rhisveri held out a hand. He knew he shouldn’t, that was the funny thing. A little voice in his brain told him ‘this is a bad idea’, but it was pride. It was always pride with Wyrms.
“No need, Baron Regalius. I’ll have a partner. Tonight, you said? An hour or two’s time is all I—I’ll just let her know to be ready.”
“Such short notice, Duke Rhisveri?”
“Plenty of time, Grand Magus! And I’ll introduce her to you all!”
Only silence greeted his statement. Everyone was giving him a…a look he hadn’t experienced before. Rhisveri blustered as his heart sank.
“Come on, what do you think of me? That I’m some—some Colth of Ailendamus? Ha. Hahaha!”
No one laughed with him. Rhisveri’s voice grew hoarse.
“You’ll meet her this evening. Then you’ll see.”
Then Sophridel cleared his throat.
“Her being…? Normally, I would assume a name is forthcoming.”
Sophridel got a kick under the table for that one from Rhisveri and shut up.
He made a show of hanging out with the rest of the nobles until they announced they had to get ready. Only four hours to go—barely any time for some of the ladies and Regalius. And it would go long, into the dawn. Even then, though, Rhisveri just lounged on the couch, making small-talk, sipping coffee, assuring them airily he’d be ready.
Only when the last person had gone did he leap up and race towards his rooms. Of course, he wasn’t panicked. He did have someone in mind—he just couldn’t tell them or it’d ruin the surprise.
 
——
 
“Eclizza! Ready for the night’s banquet?”
Dame Eclizza appeared in Rhisveri’s chambers as the Wyrm had his Human body throw on some clothing. She halted, like any warrior with good instincts, and eyed the two Thirsting Veil Knights who were standing straight at attention.
Eclizza could be…intense. She was the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus and, Rhisveri knew, an admirer of his. Not that he’d ever made anything of it à la the Dragonlord of Flames, that famous Satyr amongst Dragons.
Or was that Khetieve of the Waves? Bah, it was one of them. Eclizza didn’t look at the naked Rhisveri dressing himself and walked forwards to speak to the true Wyrm.
“Not particularly. I suspect I’ll be celebrated too much for my tastes. As for my fellow sisters, they’ve celebrated a bit too hard of late. I’m no Dioname.”
She glanced pointedly at Dame Chorisa and the other [Knights] under his authority, the ones who knew his secret.
“Nonsense, it’s what you deserve. And I’ll be there to cut the boredom.”
“Oh, indeed? You never go to such events.”
She was smiling behind her helmet, he could tell. The Wyrm cleared his throat a few times.
“Yes, so…well, just let me know when you’d like to head over. It’ll be tiring, but I’ll introduce you to the breakfast group I talk with. We might have to dance—dreadful stuff—but I think I avoided Regalius’ list.”
Eclizza’s possible smile winked out, and she tilted her head back. Then glanced over to Rhisveri’s Human body with a deceptive slowness. Her younger [Knights] edged back—they recognized a serpent moving in that way before it struck.
Irony of ironies, the Wyrm did not. He was busy watching his other self dress. He was a lot more coordinated after the [Palace of Fates] thing. Sensation, coordination, all increased the more mana you put into it. Almost like a simulacrum, but he wasn’t that stupid.
“Yes, all in the Court of Masks including Sophridel, ha-ha. They were talking out of their rectums about how I didn’t have anyone to go with.”
“You don’t.”
“Nonsense! We’re, ah—uh—going together. It’ll be grand. Right?”
He glanced over, and Dame Eclizza stared at him. Then she folded her arms.
“Rhisveri, I’m not going to my own banquet with you so you can reassure your friends you have a date.”
“What? But Eclizza—”
Rhisveri’s hearts sank as he heard an obstinate note in her voice. He protested.
“But surely—you’ve asked before! And I, uh—”
Don’t you like me in some manner? Dioname would have agreed, but the Great Knight just took a slow and measured breath.
“Yes. That was before I came back from the dead. Things are different. Whatever we are to each other—mentor, friend, ally, and my liege lord—it is not something I will sully by this little way for you to save face. And I would hope that in any reality, at any time, I would refuse you to your face.”
Wh—what did that mean? Rhisveri snaked around the room, blocking her off as she marched towards the doors.
“Wait, wait, Eclizza! I clearly offended you somehow, but it will be splendid! Come now, don’t be hasty—”
“The answer is no, Rhisveri. Move.”
Her voice was ominously flat, and when he tried to nudge her with his forehead, she put a hand on it—then punched his head.
Rhisveri was a several hundred foot long Wyrm. His head was larger than Eclizza’s entire body by far. So it really wasn’t fair how much that damn punch smarted.
Stupid auras. She slipped past him, and when the Duke Rhisveri tried to chase after her on foot, she grabbed his arm and tossed him back the way he’d come.
Several servants saw that. Duke Rhisveri lay on his back and stared up at the Wyrm. The two had the same thought since they shared one brain.
Uh oh. What’s my Plan B?
 
——
 
It would have been Magistrate Fithea, though she would have teased him endlessly about it. But he, ah—
It wasn’t his fault; it was biology. It was hard when your instincts said you had one shot at a romance, then you died. Male Wyrms only had one encounter to sire generations before passing on.
Fithea was dead. Yet some version of her had survived, in some world. Still, that meant no date—so once Rhisveri got up and dusted his Human self off, he turned.
“Dame Chorisa. Are you or any of your, uh, number free for this evening?”
The Thirsting Veil Knight stood straight and stared ahead.
“I regret to say that we are on guard duty this night, Duke Rhisveri!”
“Oh come on, I’m the person you’re guarding. I release you from your duty.”
“Thank you, Your Grace! However, I believe Dame Eclizza would object!”
“I outrank her.”
A pause.
“…With respect, you do not, Your Grace! In the Thirsting Veil’s hierarchy or in this matter especially!”
Rhisveri’s tongue pinged off Chorisa’s armor, but she refused to move. After several seconds of glaring, Rhisveri’s head lowered, and he whispered.
“—Then is there another [Knight] who, uh, is free?”
She hesitated, and then he recalled that Regalius had offered for a [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil to accompany anyone who was single. Damn!
“Nevermind that. Then…”
Well, it was obvious what he had to do. Rhisveri made a call. In moments, a gateway opened, and the smell of brimstone and steel filled the air.
“You called, Rhisveri?”
“Paxere! Excellent! I was just in need of someone from House Shoel to accompany me to an event tonight. Nothing arduous, just quick wits and a bit of footwork.”
Rhisveri sounded casual as possible as the young Lucifen stood there, and he almost missed Paxere’s twitching lips until he glanced over.
“What?”
“Nothing, Duke Rhisveri. I believe Lord Oxret is free for the evening.”
“Ah—er—a female member of House Shoel is essential.”
“Oh my. I’m afraid we are all engaged at the banquet, Duke Rhisveri. We shall delight in seeing you there.”
“Fine, fine! Then how about the Agelum—”
“Also occupied. And attending.”
It was only then that Rhisveri smelled a rat. He turned, and his eyes narrowed at Paxere, who was definitely fighting a smile.
“I’ll just ask Paterghost or—”
Her twitching lips stopped him. He was no idiot. The Wyrm’s vertical pupils narrowed too.
“Sophridel. That wretched, half-baked Mask Elemental—!”
He’d told House Shoel! And those damn—Devils—they were enjoying this at his expense! This was like the children broadcast all over again! Paxere bowed gracefully.
“We are so terribly sorry to fail to accommodate you, Duke Rhisveri. But I’m sure a Wyrm of your resource—”
He teleported her out of his chambers and a mile up. That made him feel better. Then the Wyrm of Ailendamus…definitely didn’t panic.
Because he was a Duke of Ailendamus! A famous, powerful man! One of Ailendamus’ most eligible bachelors, right?
Wait, they hadn’t said most eligible, just highest-level. And he’d intimated he had a long-standing partner. So he couldn’t just go out and find someone.
Still, not to worry. These kinds of problems…they just required more expenditure of resources. Now, true, it would take a lot of mana to teleport to Baleros and back, but Ryoka Griffin could dance. You had to be a good dancer if you went around barefoot and you were a Courier, right?
“Hah. Problem solved! I’ll just have to make her wear shoes, I suppose…”
Rhisveri grinned as he had the Duke adjust his bowtie in the mirror. Then he had a thought.
Wait, everyone knows she’s on Baleros. Well, rumor has her in Izril. But they know she’s not here. I’ve made a damn television show about her…how do I explain her just showing up? It’ll look like I’m desperate.
Which he wasn’t. It was just that he couldn’t justify her being here if she were on television in Baleros again the next day.
Damn, damn, damn—no, wait. Calm. Calm. Rhisveri exhaled. He had so many means…
 
——
 
Eighteen minutes later, the Knights of the Thirsting Veil peeked into the room where a female and very attractive [Lady] was trying to dance with the Duke Rhisveri. She managed a few steps, then tripped. After a second, Duke Rhisveri said:
“Damn.”
The [Lady] said:
“Ow. How the hell do you do it without…so that’s what [Parallel Thoughts] are for. Damn two legs! And how the hell does one dance in these things?”
She had heels on! Did you wear heels to a dance? Talking out of two mouths at once was…hard! After a few more tries, Rhisveri realized he might not even be able to get both talking simultaneously, let alone dancing!
Not without practice! Then he was really sweating acid. Think, think…
Okay, what about [Polymorphing] a [Servant]? A [Prostitute]? No, wait, that’s illegal, and even if I found someone who agrees, if word gets out, it’ll ruin my reputation.
Polymorph a squirrel? No, that would go bad. Uh, uh—
Wistram! Who else had [Mages] who could be here on short notice and loved shmoozing at fancy events? Rhisveri began sending [Message] spells. Not to the Terras faction, obviously, but if he showed up with a rival faction’s [Mage] on his arm, that would be a real move politically…or even if he had a Terras [Mage] as a date, come to think of it. A power move, a show of dominance.
Definitely.
 
——
 
One hour left to the banquet, and Rhisveri had a feeling they were laughing at him. Certainly, the last [Mage] he’d asked to attend, Sa’la, had seemed to know he’d asked dozens of [Mages] before her to go with him to the dance.
Free teleportation, drinks, food—was it him? Duke Rhisveri hadn’t been made that ill-looking, surely.
“It can’t be my personality? I work for Ailendamus! Everyone knows I’m gifted, and…you’re a fine fellow, Duke Rhisveri. It’s intimidation.”
The Wyrm was speaking to his Human self, and at this point, the Dame Knights were shoving each other. Chorisa was arguing with one of the others.
“It’s just one night. Whomever loses at rock-wand-paper has to do it. No armor—just put on a smile and do it. Look at him. He’s so…”
He could hear them. The Wyrm was about to accept their pity, but he knew the others would realize what he had done. He was lying on his side, out of options, when the idea hit him.
Wait a second. Wait…there was one person of excellent breeding and manners he could call on. Someone who would be impressive, who he knew, and who owed him a favor.
All he had to do was just—convince her. No, wait, get her first. He was sure she’d agree. But just, ah, in case, he’d teleport first, explain later.
Technically, kidnapping Lyonette out of her inn was a bad look, and he had a track record with Izril and doing that, which wasn’t great…but Rhisveri was desperate. So, you see—
 
——
 
“—It’s not even a huge issue! I don’t see why you’re so upset!”
The Wyrm had gotten this more or less out, and Lyonette was so aghast by the end of it she’d stopped trying to punch him. She turned, and Dame Ushar gave her a side-eye. They activated the mistress-servant telepathy for the first time in their lives in sheer haggardness.
“(Is he serious?)”
“(I fear he is.)”
Even so, Lyonette was outraged. Nay, she was furious! She’d just been catching up with Ilvriss and her daughters and not having a huge inn-event—that was tomorrow—and she’d been abducted!
“Take me back now, Rhisveri! I insist! My daughters will be worried! I have important things to do! One of my employees, Tessa, is in Tenbault, and I do not have the time to waste!”
He scoffed at her.
“I already left a letter explaining everything! It’s one night. You owe me this, Princess!”
“I owe you nothing! Your nation attacked mine!”
“Bah, that’s just politics! Come on, throw on a dress and just help me out. Something other than that apron.”
Rhisveri was trying to push her towards a wardrobe as she began to tell him he didn’t know good dress sense himself—but the ringing of steel on steel made him pause.
Dame Ushar had drawn her sword and placed it at his neck.
“Send Her Highness back, Your Grace. You are an enemy of Calanfer, and she does not consent to this abduction.”
Ushar! Lyonette was astounded, because the real Rhisveri loomed over her, eyes narrowed, and in the next moment, four [Knights] of the Thirsting Veil were around Ushar, blades pointed at her!
“Drop your sword, Dame Knight! Now!”
Ushar’s blade never moved. Lyonette raised her hands as Rhisveri froze, uncertain.
“Ushar, don’t—I don’t want you to get hurt! Lower your blade. That’s an order.”
“Not until the Duke agrees, Your Highness. I insist on his word of honor, dubious as it might now be given his actions.”
“You are in no position to demand anything!”
Dame Chorisa barked, but then Rhisveri deflated. He ignored the sword and sat down.
“No, it’s alright. Lower your blades, Knights. She’s right. No consent. I was just—nevermind. I’ll send you back. Just give me a second to make sure I’m not teleporting you a hundred feet up. I heard some idiot did that.”
Ushar blinked, and Lyonette turned, greatly surprised herself. He was backing down? The Duke scribbled magical signs on the ground with one finger, then looked up at her.
“What? If you don’t consent, you don’t. It’s fine. Mothers with children can’t leave them unattended. Yes, that’s it.”
This time, she and Ushar exchanged another telepathic glance as he muttered to himself, hugging his knees to his chest. The Wyrm was curled up into a ball, doing much the same.
“(Your Highness, no. Please.)”
“(Look at him, Ushar. I have to do it.)”
“(His nation attacked ours. You don’t have to.)”
“(Don’t you feel bad for him?)”
“(Well, yes.)”
“(You could do it.)”
“(…No, if you truly wish to, I support you.)”
Lyonette’s brow wrinkled up as Ushar avoided her stare. Then a third telepathic voice broke into the chat.
“(Please, we’re begging you. He’s going to be like this all month. Please.)”
…At least that was what Lyonette thought Dame Chorisa was projecting with her wide eyes and jerking head towards Rhisveri.
 
——
 
The first thing Lyonette did was regret her decision. Because the moment she agreed to help, Rhisveri sat up with such a self-important expression that she wanted to kick him.
“Ah, well, if you’re sure, we shouldn’t waste time then! I have a little sheet of notable people you should memorize. And of course, the event is in honor of Dame Eclizza’s return. Here’s a pamphlet on her deeds and titles—”
He produced a booklet that looked suspiciously hand-written. Lyonette glanced at it and then handed it to Ushar.
“Rhisveri, I am only doing this because of your actions in the [Palace of Fates]. And my investments in Ailendamus. I don’t intend to make a scene. I’ll appear, pretend to like you, and go.”
“Eminently reasonable. I won’t take you from your evening that much. An hour in, we teleport you back…”
Ancestors, he really was desperate. The Duke was smiling in relief, ego reinflating. Then he hesitated and added almost off-hand.
“You do have children to attend to. I’m not an idiot. That’s why I left the other [Knight]. It, uh, was good to see the little rascal. Mrsha. And the other one with the objectionable fashion taste.”
“Nanette. Thank you.”
He harrumphed, avoiding her gaze as he fiddled with his suit.
“Yes. Well—the ball awaits!”
She appreciated that, but then she realized she was committed. Lyonette groaned as she eyed the wardrobe and mirror set up.
“Very well, Rhisveri. We’d best make this proper if it’s done at all. How long do I have to get ready? It’s suppertime, you know. Is this some late-night get together? And clothing…”
She eyed his bow-tie and suit with the objectionable color-matching of dark purple on black. Dead gods, it appeared hand-tailored. Rhisveri straightened his bow-tie.
“An hour? No, wait, forty minutes, I think. It’s a late banquet until—”
“Forty minutes?”
She and Ushar shouted, and Rhisveri hesitated.
“What? Just throw on a dress and we’ll go over names. It won’t take more than, what, five minutes? How long does it take leggy people to dress, anyways?”
Another peculiarity of the Wyrm of Ailendamus was that he had no idea how to put on clothes. It transpired he had a spell that magicked them onto his body.
“[Valmira’s Spontaneous Attirement]. A lesser-known spell invented by the Archmage. I always thought it was practical, but Fithea and the Lucifen relentlessly mocked it. So what I’m hearing is you don’t want me to cast it on you…? And what is the problem with my clothing?”
Lyonette was tearing through the wardrobe he’d picked out for his fake dance partner and was tossing the expensive—and tasteless—dresses aside.
“This is utter trash! Rhisveri, are you insane? Forget the magic, I can’t wear any of this! It’s not sized to me—I’d have to be four inches taller! And it’s tasteless!”
“What? No it’s not! I had the servants gather up old dresses.”
I wonder what they thought of that. Lyonette just pointed.
“Sequins? Rhisveri, is this for a noblewoman or a [Dancer]?”
“Er…well, that one has lace.”
“Lace is out of fashion! Even you should know that! Dead gods—I have nothing to wear. I can’t even send you back to the inn because I don’t have anything fine enough to wear to a banquet with the monarchs of Ailendamus!”
She rubbed at her forehead. Rhisveri hesitated, and his main body slithered away.
“One second, one second—aha! I’ve got just the thing. I’m sure we can find someone to resize…this!”
He came back with a box, which he proudly dusted off and opened. It was rather like a giant briefcase—until Lyonette realized it was a custom-made Chest of Holding resized to be a walk-in wardrobe. A powerful spell, too; normally those did horrible things to living people, but this one was safe.
“What is that?”
“Some relic from one of the kingdoms we conquered. Caadnamis, I think? I use it to store some of my personal treasures. Here. Fit for a [Queen].”
To her horror, he levitated out a dress covered with so many glittering gemstones and cloth giving off its own light that it turned the entire room into a rainbow. She nearly went blind.
“What is that?”
“What? It’s the royal queen’s outfit. The Rainbow Dress of Caadnamis. Ah…I suppose that would be rather suspicious, wouldn’t it?”
It was so damn gaudy! Lyonette knew something of the old kingdoms that had gone under, and she didn’t recall hearing of that dress worn in public often.
I bet the old [Queens] hated that thing. It looks heavy as sin, and you’d blind your audience every time you curtsied. She folded her arms.
“Everything in that wardrobe is out. I’ll either outshine the royal family, be out-of-date, or wear a Relic-class dress to a banquet. Rhisveri, do you have any [Tailors] or [Dressmakers] in the palace with speed Skills? Extreme speed Skills?”
They might be able to alter something—Rhisveri hesitated, then he began to send his Duke form running off.
“I’ll get—”
“Oh, no you won’t. Your attire is just as bad. Ushar, do something about him. Send one of those [Knights]!”
Lyonette pointed at the Thirsting Veil Knights, who raised their helmeted heads. They seemed to be deep in thought about something, but one of them went jogging into the palace. Still—she was in doubt they’d be successful.
“Every time a banquet happens, someone needs a dress let out or something repaired. They’ll be in high demand. Who’s coming to this banquet?”
“Hmm. Everyone?”
This time, she actually went to stomp on one foot. Rhisveri was covering his lower half with a coat; Ushar was pulling out his outfits to find something less hideous. At least here he had a selection she suspected someone else had procured for him. She eyed him severely. Naked, Rhisveri was moderately fit and denuded of hair everywhere but his face. It made him appear very odd.
“How many nobles, Rhisveri? Don’t tell me you don’t know. Also, you look horrible naked.”
“What?”
He was highly offended. She scowled at him.
“Most people have body hair. You look like, well, a naked flesh-snake.”
“Hair. You primates with your hair everywhere. It’s disgusting.”
He grumbled as Ushar passed him some pants. Lyonette tapped her foot, trying to winnow down the dresses and find the best one, but it was hopeless. She hated them all.
The cast-off dresses of Ailendamus were either tacky, meant for [Dancers] or people who weren’t attending balls, or so ridiculously expensive—like black metal sequins sewn onto blacker silk so you looked like a glittering night sky…highly expensive and utterly generic as looks went, at least for someone who’d grown up with it.
Dead gods, the only person worse than Rhisveri is Nanette. Lyonette wished the girl were here to see this. She hoped Ushar’s message reassured everyone she was fine.
What am I doing? She wanted to go home and have a game of cards with Ilvriss. However, Rhisveri’s crestfallen expression and her memory of him fighting in the [Palace of Fates] made her relent slightly.
“If it’s not a huge gathering and it’s informal, we may be able to get away with an outfit appropriate for a sitting room or parlor. Slightly indecorous, but isn’t Ailendamus supposed to be oh-so-efficient and progressive?”
She tried not to let scorn enter her tone, but she did hear about the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, even if she’d never visited. Rhisveri sniffed at her.
“I wasn’t lying. I meant everyone. All the nobility who can attend are coming. This is a kingdom-wide celebration. I think there will be at least ten thousand of the nobility in attendance. Some Wistram [Mages] will broadcast the event since we’re being nice. A full legion of Hydra Knights has been invited—not one particular one, but various commanders and regular [Knights]…twice that number of commonfolk? Four times? And the diplomats are eating—”
He saw Lyonette visibly pale.
“Dead gods, Rhisveri! Even Calanfer couldn’t host that many people in a single space!”
“Well, we have the palace. It’s eight or more palaces combined. And it’s for Eclizza. Don’t worry, don’t worry! Well, actually, worry since we’re sitting at the front table with Itorin. Technically, he’s my brother.”
Rhisveri wore a self-satisfied smirk as he saw the two Calanferians’ dismay until Lyonette fired back.
“Well, you will either sit alone or with someone dressed so poorly they’ll assume I was paid to be there! Or that you treat your partner like trash. So help me find a dress or you can put one of them in a dress!”
She pointed at another of the Thirsting Veil Knights, and they went running for a [Dressmaker]. Rhisveri licked his lips nervously.
“I’m sure I can get someone to do good work. I am the King’s brother. I have precedence!”
Yes, but he’d have to fight a desperate [Lady] for a good [Dressmaker], and that wasn’t a battle Lyonette was willing to back the Wyrm on. She still needed a base outfit worth…something! Lyonette wasn’t just worried about that.
“I haven’t been to a Terandrian ball since I was seventeen. All my graces are surely gone. Oh, dead gods, this is a mistake! If only I had some Calanferian outfits. Not that I had good taste back then, but at least they would be decent!”
Rhisveri frowned at her.
“What does Calanferian fashion look like? Sunbursts and dawn imagery? That’s rather tacky.”
She was wishing for a miracle and was even tempted to raid the royal outfits of plundered kingdoms on the off chance they could make one suitably unrecognizable. She snapped at Rhisveri.
“We follow social trends! They’re beautiful atmospheric colors, Rhisveri. Not just sunshine. We have each state of sky in our wardrobes! Twilight gowns, celestial-themed outfits…and the colors of the dawn. But I took none of that from home, just my Cloak of Balshadow.”
“Oh, a Cloak of Balshadow? Not bad, not bad. Hardly more than Gold-ranking gear, unless it was a 1st-generation?”
Predictably, he grew distracted with talk of artifacts, and she pointed a finger at him warningly.
“Find me a dress, Rhisveri! There has to be one in your collection!”
“I don’t actually hoard apparel. The net value of it is too unpredictable. Dragons just grab everything. I make fiscal decisions, you see. I had this huge supply of sulfur a year ago when there was a huge buyout for some reason—”
“Get me a damn dress, Rhisveri! Check your rooms! That door!”
She pointed, and Rhisveri’s head snaked around. The Duke began to go running, then slowed.
“…That’s not a door that should be there. Take cover.”
The way he said that made her whirl and reach for a sword. Then Lyonette blinked and cried out.
“Wait, that’s my—don’t attack, it’s mine!”
Rhisveri’s mouth snapped shut before the Wyrm could blast the gilt door encrusted with flaking golden paint. He eyed her, swallowed, and rasped.
“You what? What is it with your inn and doors?”
Lyonette murmured, confused.
“It’s the [Treasury of House Marquin]. But it’s useless. I just store gold in there. See?”
She took a few steps forwards and swung the door open. This was one of Lyonette’s Skills she had gained but never really used, like her dance or gambling Skills. She’d been excited, but it was little more than a more impressive Chest of Holding—utterly useless with Erin’s Skills.
It was like a walk-in closet with wooden shelves lining a thin space, a rack of items on one side of the wall—nothing more. It was even slightly dirty, and she suspected no one in House Marquin had gained the Skill in generations.
The [Treasury of House Marquin] held all that Lyonette owned. Her Cloak of Balshadow, her tiara, the highly dangerous Ring of Conflagration almost out of magic…Lyonette really needed to get that recharged by Hedault. Even if they hadn’t been placed there, her possessions of value showed up.
She’d used it as a dumping ground for all the gold the inn had generated, and the shelves were groaning with stacks of gold coins, then just piles of gold on the shelves and floor when she’d gotten so desperate she’d just begun emptying full bags into it. A rather embarrassing closet, in short, full of grand titles and not much of value.
Rather like House Marquin, she supposed. It had tickled Lyonette’s fancy that if she forgot about it, at least a new generation of her family might one day get a bit of gold out of the Skill. That was the sight she intended to show Rhisveri. But when the door swung open, Lyonette saw no dingy shelves and walk-in closet.
Instead, she found a [Knight] in armor raising a mace overhead, about to swing on her.
“Aaah!”
This time, Ushar was there, and she swung her shield up to parry the mace as she stabbed with a blade of her own. Her sword pierced the battered piece of armor through the chest, and the mannequin fell over. The armor crashed to the ground.
“Huh? That’s—”
The helmet rolled off, exposing a simple wooden doll you could put armor onto. Ushar yanked her sword tip out of the armor; her enchanted blade had cleaved the metal in two.
Lyonette blinked at the strange weapon Ushar held, with a blue hilt flared out with very ornamental wings; the blade was unnaturally bright on its own. Then she remembered—Ushar had armed herself with weapons from Albez. This was one of Warmage Thresk’s weapons and it was clearly exceptionally sharp.
Still, Ushar’s first target in this world was an innocent suit of armor. Red-cheeked, the [Knight] shoved the armor aside and turned to the [Princess].
“Your Highness, this isn’t your Skill. Or rather, it is, but…”
It wasn’t anything like the walk-in closet that Lyonette remembered. It was bigger, and the room beyond was smoother stone rather than cheap wood. More than that…Lyonette saw the shelves were covered in dust. But there were traces of—
“Magic? This place is disgusting. I can see why you don’t advertise it. Do you people not clean your Skill-based rooms? That’s shocking. I take a cleaning spell around my part of the palace every week. But it’s hardly useless. I mean, the armor is, but that seems valuable.”
Rhisveri poked his head into the wardrobe as Lyonette spluttered and coughed.
“This isn’t my Skill, Rhisveri! It’s—dead gods, it’s filthy. What’s going on? I thought that was a man in armor.”
Ushar poked at the armor and helmet, shaking her head.
“Nope, just some battered plate armor, Your Highness. Terribly used; I wouldn’t give this to a [Squire] in the Thronebearers, for all it’s very good steel.”
It did appear horribly worn and cut up. It was thicker than Lyonette thought armor was, but Rhisveri just shook his head.
“You Thronebearers. That’s a Dragonchallenger-type plate. Nearly half again as thick on the chestplate. Heavy as you can wear and fight in. They retired that kind of plate, and we decided it wasn’t worth the mobility issues to mass-produce when we were designing our [Knights], but it’s very respectable. The wearer must have been strong, though.”
“This is a waste of time.”
Lyonette muttered, knowing they needed to focus on the dress, but her instincts were singing this was important. This…Skill had appeared when she needed a dress.
Could it be? She had too much experience with Erin to dismiss this. But that thought made her tense.
“Ushar, I think my Skill is doing something Erin-related.”
“Ah. Are we in danger, Your Highness?”
“From my Skill? I doubt it.”
“Very good, Princess. I’ll prepare handkerchiefs.”
Rhisveri’s head turned from Lyonette to Ushar, then he clearly remembered the [Palace of Fates] and tensed himself. He whispered.
“[Greater Identification]. Hmm. Not a big room. Two side rooms; there’s not much hostile magic in here, either. Most of it appears degraded. Actually, there’s layers. I’m getting magic that’s quite old and newer stuff, but the ‘new’ is still centuries in decline. Magic bindings faded. Oh, look at that hole in the shelves over there. Destabilized enchantments must have gone off. Shoddy work.”
He pointed at a hole in the shelves. Lyonette frowned.
“How long does it take for an enchantment to do that?”
“Very bad bindings from amateurs? Months. But this kind of quality…well, I guess centuries from the dust accumulation. And the old magic is…not as old as me, but very old. Thousands of years.”
That snapped her head around. Lyonette traded a glance with Ushar.
“But my closet was nothing! It only had my…stuff. This?”
They stepped past the fallen mannequin and saw a central pillar where it had been standing. The room split around it before ending after two dozen paces; then two doors to the right and left formed a ‘T’ shape to this place.
Hardly more impressive. The shelves were mostly still wood, though it looked richer than Lyonette’s dingy shelves, and she saw several objects lying under the dust. Gloves, a sword here, even a bottle of something—all of it old and probably useless or out of magic.
What the—then she saw the sign on the far wall and halted.
“Oh my.”
‘The Treasury of House Marquin’ was spelled out in faded, golden letters on a signboard hanging from the wall. Nothing more, and it wasn’t the product of a Skill, just someone with a steady hand and some paint.
That wasn’t what made Lyonette halt abruptly and put some of the pieces together. No, it was what was scribbled below the signboard. A neat hand had written the first part, and then the rest had been signed like signatures, all flourishes in faded golden ink.
 
Owners: Marquin Queen Marquin the First or something.
Prince Camridel King Camridel IV of House Marquin
Princess Angele, 4th Princess of Calanfer. Zekol 2311.
Princess Thie, daughter of Princess Angele
Marquessa Yinvinie, by blood of House Marquin, the honor of a lifetime.
Prince Amlet
King Amlet. I took your crown, Queen Marquin. Your armor is still too heavy.
 
That was it. Seven names, and one repeated. So this Skill had passed through owners exactly six times since…
Queen Marquin the Radiant. The original. The—Lyonette stared at the signboard in awe.
“Oh my. But how…her own Skill?”
Ushar had sunk to one knee. The two were transfixed until Rhisveri coughed.
“Dusty. Let me just get some water and a cleaning spell. Can’t cast [Cleanse] until you know what’s about—hey, there’s a roach over here. Dead. Oh, and a logbook. Excellent, excellent.”
Completely unaffected by their awe, he was paging through an ancient tome sitting on a lectern under the signboard. Lyonette shouted.
“Don’t touch—!”
“[Reinforce Bindings]. [True Stasis]…and [Repair]. Hmm. That’ll do. It’s not so old I can’t make it better, but you’d better re-copy this. We have thirty-three minutes, incidentally.”
He didn’t touch the old logbook, but levitated it up, and color washed over the faded, grey bindings until she saw green leather, and the pages brightened. Only then did he toss it to her.
It occurred to Lyonette that the best people to bring into a room of old artifacts would be Wyrms or Dragons, who had an interest in keeping valuables intact. She nodded at him as he wandered around, doing the same to other objects.
Then, with trembling hands, she opened the logbook. The first thing she saw was the same handwriting, blunter than the regal handwriting she’d been raised to, but legible. A [General]’s hand writing in bold words.
 
This is a logbook of my Skill, such as it is. If you’re reading this, then I had children or someone took up the name. Funny to be given a glorified storeroom as a Skill, but it beats bags of holding. I intend to leave anything of value for Calanfer itself, but I’ll put what I can in here. And how this damn Skill works. They never come with instruction manuals.
 
Queen Marquin’s writing. Lyonette flipped a page as Ushar poked her head over her shoulder in awe before realizing she should be on lookout. Another page was an entry marked ‘16’.
 
Had a word with one of Samal’s [Key Princes]. Nearly had to twist his arm off before he told me this kind of thing is normal. But all of their stuff is far fancier. I finally figured out how it worked! I was putting some of the funds I had while travelling in here and complaining how cheap everything was. Before I knew it, all the shelves were fine wood! Mahogany, nothing fancy.
…Damn room cost me 500 gold to do the upgrade, though. Five hundred? I could have done that with a saw and tools in a day!
 
Entry 17. 
Okay, everything’s too damn expensive in here. I built another room where I’ll store more private gear, maybe even put a bed in if I need to sleep in secret, but it’s not worth the cost when I have a kingdom to build. If anyone who comes after wants to shell out the gold, be my guest. But from where I’m standing, it’s not worth having a fancy ‘treasury’ Skill when a few shelves are all you need.
How many Relics are we going to have, anyways? Plus, if I bite the dust, I don’t think my little baby boy gets the Skill guaranteed. Better put only a few things in here, but what do I know?
 
Lyonette flipped the pages. The handwriting visibly changed after several more entries, which grew more sporadic as Marquin lost interest in this, but each new owner had something to say.
 
Princess Angele’s Log Entry #1, Zekol 2311, Era of the Seventh Nagatine Empire, 62. Solla 14.
I do not know who may read of this, so I am recording the dates as best I may. My predecessor, King Camridel, felt no need, nor did Queen Marquin herself, but I feel as though it is a necessity given that one hundred twenty-nine! whole generations have passed since the reign of King Camridel and my own.
I first must explain that I am indeed a [Princess] and not, I think, likely to succeed the throne. I would take this Skill as a sign, but as Queen Marquin herself noted, it is no mark of legacy for the throne. 
Perhaps it is needed, but I fear this is no hour when I see myself leading an army to Rhir…or against the Nagatine Empire. Not now. Perhaps I do not deserve this Skill? I am but a [Princess], but I wish to assure those who come after…
 
Two more pages were devoted to her justifying her gaining the Skill. At this point, Lyonette knew she had to stop reading; time was passing. But she had two questions.
One, why was this Skill so changed? It was clear to her now that she had accessed it much like Marquin had, in an unformed state. Could she expand her own Skill? The second was…why had it appeared for her? Surely there was something here she needed.
The answers to both came quickly, as Lyonette saw there was, in fact, several little leaflets of gold sticking out of the book.
Bookmarks. How handy. Someone had selected passages of note, like Marquin’s words of wisdom. Lyonette went back to one of the first ones and read.
 
Entry 21. Hey, it’s back! I was worried sick someone had stolen it. Turns out…this Skill only works on Terandria’s soil. I went on a trip to Rhir, where they’re setting up the Kingdom of Rhir. 
Brave boys and girls. But I tried to access this place to give them a few tokens of my appreciation, and I only got the empty closet again.
Turns out…turns out there’s a treasury on each continent! Hah! You know, I thought that was a good idea. Maybe it’s how I designed it in my head?
Think about it. You can’t steal from it if we keep things hidden on another continent, eh? I’ll put a few tools in the Rhir one next time I visit and open up ones on other continents. Not that I want to spread the wealth around, but if someone in House Marquin gets trapped on Rhir, they could always use another sword. I wanted to go and see if we could find more Crelers or where they came from, but everyone’s [Dangersenses] went off the closer we got to the Pit. 
Hell’s got places even I daren’t tread. Not even Dragons. It shames me to say, but we need to rebuild rather than chase the foe down there. Besides, if eight Named-ranks can’t report back…
I shan’t write about all I saw and whom I met there. Some secrets you have to keep, even in places as secure as this, and I vowed not to tell of it. We were warned. That’s enough to say. Not everyone wanted to listen, but it was fair. Warned and still, there’s something down there that no one dares battle. Not yet. We’re too tired, too beaten down, and if it’s worse than an Elder Creler, we must be ready. So that’s the plan.
They’ll build walls, they tell me. Walls so strong not even an Ancient Creler will break them. Let this be more of a lesson on how the treasury works, since I’ll write down my thoughts on Crelers and Rhir and shout that to everyone I know. But be damn careful.
Something’s down in that hole. Something that did for a lot of Crelers. I swear they were watching me long before I got close. I swear…there was a lot of ‘em, but I can’t write more. Hopefully by the time you’re reading this, it’s done and dealt with.
Anyways, also don’t store food in here. I had roaches.
—Marquin
 
When Lyonette glanced up this time, she saw one of the side doors was open. And there was indeed a bedroom with a very dilapidated bed inside. More personal possessions lay in there. Rhisveri was reading over her shoulder, and he seemed impressed.
“Do you know what this means?”
Lyonette saw Ushar had a wardrobe open, and she saw an old gown of magical fabric spill into the Thronebearer’s arms. The possession of one of the former owners. Lyonette’s breath caught as the dress whirled, and she realized it was enchanted so the green blew like a field of grass in the wind. Then she saw the sleeves changing color until they were like sundrenched wheat, shifting till the top was blue like the sky.
“Oh my. That…that could work. I think I have a dress after all, Rhisveri.”
Assuming it fit. But she wondered if someone dedicated enough to make an enchanted, color-shifting dress wouldn’t also make it resizable? Lyonette’s heart was beating fast, and she gazed at Rhisveri in wonder.
No heartbreak in this place—well, some. She remembered Marquin’s face as she led the charge against the Crelers and squeezed her eyes shut. The Wyrm, for all his bluster, was also more respectful of this place than he would have been otherwise. But he did smile.
“No, I meant—you know that armor your bodyguard stabbed? You know who wore that, don’t you?”
Lyonette’s eyes snapped back open, and Ushar faltered. Both women turned to Rhisveri, and he strode back to the front.
The battered Dragonchallenger plate armor and sword were plain, unenchanted, and scarred terribly by battle. Huge grooves were cut into the thick steel, as if produced by thin, weirdly curved blades. Or…claws of some kind?
Lyonette saw Ushar pale as she stared at the hole her enchanted sword from the [Palace of Fates] had left in the metal. Rhisveri knelt over the stand, righting it and murmuring to himself.
“Cheap for royals in any era. Why would they keep this around? It’s clearly been enchanted not to rust away…but if you think about it, this is the kind of armor you’d get if you couldn’t afford magic. Especially if you were in a war. Yep. Ahaha.”
He found something that had been knocked over and put it up. The plaque read:
 
Armor of Queen Marquin the Radiant.
 
The notched mace, the armor with a new stab wound in the chestplate—possibly one of the greatest relics of Calanfer stood there as Lyonette and Rhisveri turned to Ushar. The Thronebearer looked like she was going to throw up.
“It—it could be a replica.”
She tried, desperate, and on a hunch, Lyonette took the breastplate off the stand. It was so heavy she nearly fell over, but when she turned it, she saw some ancient padding inside the breastplate. It was covering the right side extensively. As if you needed a bit more there because you were missing something.
Like, say, a breast. Rhisveri whistled.
“If this is the armor she could afford back when she was, what, leading soldiers around, then she lost the breast when she was even less geared up. One angry Human with a mace beating down Crelers. That always struck me as a better founder of a nation than the Hundred Heroes. I met her, you know.”
He stood, smug, wistful, and amused, until Lyonette broke the paralysis by putting the armor on the stand. She turned and met Ushar’s eyes.
“Ushar, hand me that dress and anything that looks good. Rhisveri, you’re filthy. We have less than thirty minutes, and I have no makeup. Move!”
She clapped her hands, and the two jumped—treasury of her forebearers or not, Lyonette had a banquet to get ready for. Priorities!
She hoped Marquin would approve.
 
——
 
Only after the two were gone did the Thirsting Veil Knights let out a huge breath of relief. In fact, they began applauding like loons. Because they genuinely had been worried about the Wyrm in a strange way.
It was only after they’d relaxed that Dame Aine turned to Chorisa. The youngest Thirsting Veil Knight of the squad raised a hand and pointed at the young woman’s back.
“Er, Dame Chorisa?”
“Yes, Dame Aine?”
“A query and thought.”
“Only the one?”
The Thirsting Veil Knight didn’t really laugh.
“Hah. Two, then. Firstly, that female [Knight]’s armor was bright gold. Polished. She was good with her sword, though…does any other Knight-Order wear that armor?”
“Um…”
The other [Knights] stopped celebrating and began to catch onto Dame Aine’s thought. The young woman raised another finger.
“Second, he said ‘Your Highness’. And, uh, ‘Princess’. Never her name, but the other [Knight] said the duke as an ‘enemy of Calanfer’. Which…which [Princess] do you think that was?”
All four [Knights] regarded each other. Then the Wyrm, who’d curled into a ball to better control his other self for the night. They stared at the place the [Princess] had been, did some quick mental math.
Then two of them went running to find Dame Eclizza, fast as they could. But of course, by the time they found her—the ball had begun.
 
——
 
The Duke was late for the banquet he’d made such a fuss over. But King Itorin II didn’t mind. He’d heard Rhisveri had been running around the palace searching for a suitable date, and anything that made the Wyrm squirm amused the [King].
It was hardly as though you could realize Rhisveri was absent in a gathering such as this. Itorin wasn’t sure if it was forty thousand guests or sixty? They were spread out across many rooms, though the grand ballroom was probably accommodating at least a fourth of them.
A sea of species, not just humanity. Mostly Humanity, but he saw more than enough half-Elves. Normally, they might be shunned, but they mixed with Dwarves, long-lived beings who commented on how the palace had grown again since their last visits.
Species from other parts of the world were also visitors, emissaries or guests or sometimes just citizens brought here for their talents. A Garuda fluttered up to admire a golden visage of a former [King] of Ailendamus until they saw Itorin watching them and dove down, though he didn’t mind.
The Drakes were all gathered around the more flashy signs of wealth; they were admiring a rather horrible statue of King Itorin the First, made out of gold.
Just gold. Different colors like Truegold, Blacksand gold, purple gold—you could color it with effort—but it was just so horrifically gaudy that Itorin shuddered every time he passed it by. The plinth was reinforced to keep the horrible statue standing, but the Drakes always loved it.
Itorin put them out of his head. So long as they avoided fighting with the Lizardfolk—again—he was more minded to speak to the emissary of the House of Minos. The tall Minotaurs were standing, arms crossed, speaking to a group of Gnolls, all of whom seemed drawn to a huge roasting spit outside where generous cuts of meat were being handed out.
Lines everywhere, but Ailendamus under Queen Oiena had treated this like a battle and assembled hordes of food and entertainments such that if you didn’t want to wait for the meat, you could drift over to where an [Ice Mage] was lifting colored globs of ice cream into the air and compressing them into artful cones for dumbstruck children.
Or—a huge lure for anyone with a vegetarian attitude towards food—you could visit some of the gardens that grew produce, pick your favorite vegetables, and have them washed and prepared before your eyes. Oiena loved that trick. She called it ‘making the guests earn their food and prepare a dish they can’t complain about’. Itorin was sure there was a fancier way to say that, but Taimaguros didn’t go in huge for analogies.
Besides, as grand as the affair was, it hardly turned on the royal family. True, you had Wistram [Mages] in attendance recording everything, but this wasn’t going to be more than a mention on the news despite the massive number of guests.
It was a celebration for Ailendamus; once he gave the speech celebrating Dame Eclizza, he sat down, took the first bite of the food, and then the guests mingled and celebrated. The first illusion spells began activating in the gardens for people to watch, and several [Actors] were present.
Not to perform, but they’d been rushed all the way from Pheislant just to be here and add to the moment. The Players of Celum were booked for a full month in Ailendamus, and Itorin was only amazed that the Kingdom of Glass and Glory couldn’t get them for longer.
He supposed they were a kind of celebrity like the Singer of Terandria. He just hoped none of them were spies this time.
—The point was, when Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical was announced into the central ballroom looking out into the gardens, the banquet was already twenty minutes underway. Yet his presence was not…unnoticed.
Of course, the [Crier] drew eyes, but Itorin had been waiting for this, and so had a number of dignitaries in Ailendamus. House Shoel, both Lucifen and Agelum, were here, as well as many of the more reclusive ‘nobles’ like Menorkel. And Rhisveri’s entire social group was waiting for him. Their head-turns and clear interest made the rest of the ballroom focus their attention on the very nervous Duke standing with a sharp-looking suit on.
“Odd. More color than your brother normally wears.”
Oiena, the Queen of Ailendamus, remarked with a frown. She was in good spirits; a lot of Taimaguros’ delegation were here to celebrate with their allies, and she loved to talk of her empire with her people. She patted her mouth as she eyed Rhisveri’s outfit.
He did indeed have on a suit of off-white cloth with little twining serpents in purple on the forearms that ran up from the cuffs, but it was not his usual attire. It was a faintly golden white? Not cream, but…
Itorin would have said it was ill-fitting to most gatherings, but it worked. However, it was the partner who stood behind one of the doors he wanted to see. The [King] actually craned his neck.
Please be a polymorphed squirrel. Please be a polymorphed…if it was Ryoka Griffin, it would be a huge problem, but he thought he might die of laughter. But then Rhisveri held out an arm, making some comment to the unseen partner, and Itorin had another thought.
I haven’t seen Viscount Visophecin lately. What if it’s Visophecin under illusion spells?
He hid a smile with his goblet, then paused. Someone walked past Rhisveri, ignoring his arm. She halted, and Queen Oiena’s brows rose.
“Oh my, who is that, Itorin? I haven’t ever seen her in the palace. Is this Rhisveri’s mysterious partner?”
“He doesn’t have one.”
Itorin murmured, but his brows had drawn together, and he was focused on the young woman who stood, surveying the room of interested nobles. He realized in a moment that this was no polymorphed squirrel.
Her poise was too good. She stood, knowing she was on display, and her dress was clearly magical. It was a sunburst of yellow around her shoulders, radiating down to fiery orange and a deeper red, like a burning flame. Even as she curtseyed to the throne, he saw the colors shifting. Darkening like the sky itself, towards night.
Who is this? He was so focused on her, trying to understand, that he almost forgot to acknowledge the curtsey. When he did, she rose, and he saw her black hair curling around her shoulders. A brass ring flashed on one finger, and he saw no more he could identify about her. Only a certainty…
The [King] of Ailendamus crooked a finger, and a servant appeared. He murmured, shielding his mouth.
“Find out who that is.”
Then he stood as the Duke and his date approached the table.
“Brother, I thought I might not see you tonight.”
Rhisveri grumbled, seeming slightly pleased as he threw himself into a seat at the table. Oiena nodded at him as she smiled at the other woman.
“Oh, I had to show up, Brother. If only to prove I actually had a partner for this event. All these naysayers…”
“Will you introduce her to us? It is a delight to meet my brother’s paramour, Miss…?”
The young woman reacted ever-so-slightly to the word ‘paramour’; if he wasn’t watching, he would have missed the slight thinning of her lips. Well, well, even more interesting. Rhisveri cleared his throat.
“This is, uh, uh…”
He froze up, and the young woman leaned over.
“Eyonlett, Your Majesty. Though ‘Eyon’ is quite fine as well. It is an honor to be invited to such an auspicious occasion. I hope I shall not embarrass myself in your company.”
“Miss Eyonlett, anyone who can stand my brother’s company is already graceful in many ways.”
Itorin teased Rhisveri as the Wyrm narrowed his eyes at the [King], but he couldn’t say anything in public. There was laughter, and Rhisveri jerked his head.
“We won’t sit here long. I have to talk to my associates. Eyon—er, where’s your bodyguard?”
“Rusha? I believe she’s—yes, there.”
Itorin and Oiena turned, and the King saw, to his surprise, a rather stiff figure in a massive suit of plate armor standing with other guards. Dead gods, that looks heavy. It was half again as bulky as even a Drell Knight’s armor.
“What a fearsome [Knight]. Where does she hail from, Miss Eyon? Are you a lady of the realm or…?”
She smiled.
“One must be mysterious, Your Majesty. Do forgive me, but I fear I cannot say at this moment. As for my [Knight], she is sworn to defend me with her life.”
“Ah, a mystery. Delightful. Rhisveri, you snake, you’ve been keeping Miss Eyon secret from us all.”
Itorin smiled, but rather like a viper himself. He didn’t buy any of this for a moment. His first instinct was that this ‘Eyon’ was a young woman that Rhisveri had found, a servant or someone he’d teleported into the palace, and that ‘knight’ was much the same.
Or perhaps they were both [Knights] of the Thirsting Veil? You’d never know if one of them took off a helmet. Itorin didn’t like Rhisveri, and with due respect to the Duke’s poor dinner date, he intended to expose that she didn’t belong.
The easiest way being, of course, to just eat. Rhisveri and Eyon were served a course of food; leaves of salad fresh-picked from half-Elven villages, fresh produce from around Ailendamus, and a soup made by a [Masterclass Chef].
Itorin was sure every eye was on the duo, and he watched as the young lady…instantly picked up the right salad fork and delicately took a bite of the dish.
Huh. In fact, she caught Rhisveri’s arm and indicated without words that he was using the wrong spoon. The Wyrm corrected himself, and Itorin spoke.
“Ah, I have utterly failed in my own duties. My wife, Queen Oiena of Ailendamus and proud daughter of Taimaguros. Gura, over Taima.”
He smiled faintly as Oiena flashed a proud smile and introduced herself. The rest of the royal family were at the table, like young Oesca and her brothers, Ivenius and Votrin. There was even a young woman who was the center of attention—
“Princess Ozena of Ailendamus.”
One of Terandria’s most eligible noblewomen—along with Duchess Greina and Princess Telleis—smiled at the young woman, who did seem fascinated to meet the famous [Princess]. Ozena leaned over the table.
“Your dress is stunning, Miss Eyon. If you’ll pardon me, I should love to borrow the look.”
So saying, the [Princess] threw back her head in a practiced move. Her hair rose and hovered in the air behind her head—then the royal red of her hair, closer to ruby, began to ripple with colors.
Exactly like Eyon’s dress. There was a gasp from a few, and the [Princess] smiled. Itorin himself merely hid a sigh behind a bite of soup.
Only one of his offspring was wed, and his oldest daughter, Ozena, certainly attracted suitors like flies. She was gifted in magic and still studied at Ailendamus’ academies, but she was so capable she was often part-teacher as well. Ozena was also gifted with the sword, and she’d become that rare class that inspired so many to admiration.
[Battle Princess]. She was already Level 35 at her age of 24, and it was why she was considered to be one of the golden three along with her peers, who were already Gold-rank adventurers. She didn’t even have red hair; she could change colors without even concentrating. A level of magic that until Archmage Eldavin had been considered incredible.
Ozena also had a rather powerful aura, which she wasn’t letting wash over Eyon, because that would have been purely offensive, but it was hard to even meet her eye when it was strong. But to his surprise, Miss Eyon didn’t react to the theft of her dress’ style or Ozena’s aura. Instead, she laughed and clapped her hands together in polite applause.
“Princess Ozena, that is an amazing display of magic! Do forgive me; you must hear it all the time from non-[Mages]. However, I daresay that Ailendamus’ magical academies do prove that Wistram is not the only peerless magical institution in the world. Pray tell, are you studying at…Heltifens, I believe? In the Mayesh region? It must have taken days to reach the capital for this gathering.”
Itorin blinked. So did Ozena; Eyon met her eyes just long enough, and her face was openly delighted and respectful.
What a fascinating reply. In one moment, she complimented Ailendamus, demonstrated her knowledge of Ailendamus, and he thought she paved the way for Ozena’s reply.
“Oh, it only took a few minutes. I teleported here. The latest thing, you know.”
“My word. Teleportation at such distances? I heard Wistram was offering the service, but is Ailendamus doing the same?”
Despite himself, the [King] chuckled, and he leaned over; their voices were magnified by a subtle spell from the head table, so he knew even his confidential voice would reach others—and be recorded by Wistram’s [Mages].
“We have no intention to sell the magic on the same level as the Academy of Mages, but it is certainly a handy tool. I would have imagined Duke Rhisveri would have kept you up to date on all the magical goings on in the kingdom, though, Miss Eyon? He is our finest spellcaster, bar none.”
She smiled at him in a way that gave nothing away.
“I am well familiar with Duke Rhisveri’s ability to appear where he wishes to be, Your Majesty. But he is a hard man to compare to other [Mages] of Ailendamus or what is accessible to commonfolk.”
“Very true.”
And she gave nothing away. Not one thing! He even pushed at her subtly with his aura, but felt like he hit a rock wall.
She’s got anti-aura training? Or one of her own? If she did, she was suppressing it so hard that he couldn’t tell.
Who was this? There was a murmur in the background of their conversation as Ailendamus’ own smiled in national pride about their magical acumen. Several [Mages] of Wistram glowered as they spoke over their goblets, and visitors eyed Ozena appreciatively.
Few saw that Eyon had led the conversation that way. Itorin raised his glass. Despite himself, he was getting more curious than amused. And he wasn’t the only one. Ozena, as well as the queen, had focused on Eyon—perhaps they’d noticed Itorin using his aura or just picked up on her diplomatic abilities.
Rhisveri was the one who seemed uncomfortable by the clear interest the royal family was showing in his date. He pushed his nearly untouched plate back.
“Fine soup. Eyon, come, let’s visit my friends and not keep my brother too long.”
His rather presumptuous tone and jerk of the head made Queen Oiena frown. Oesca, her daughter, protested.
“But I wanted to talk too, Uncle Rhisveri! Your dress is marvellous, Miss Eyon. May I touch it?”
“Of course.”
Eyon bent over and offered her sleeve for Oesca to ooh over. Rhisveri coughed.
“Why don’t we go, Eyon? I’m sure you don’t want t—”
He took her arm, impatient, and she kicked him. It was so fast that Itorin saw the expression of agony on Rhisveri’s face as he sat up in his chair—and didn’t even see Eyon twitch.
Oh my. Now, the entire royal family was fascinated as they waited for Rhisveri to explode. The Duke’s famous temper…turned into a sickly smile as Eyon eyed him. Whatever passed between her steady blue gaze and his purple one, he sat back.
“Er—or we could enjoy the soup. What’s in this, cabbage?”
He took another bite of it, and Eyon addressed Oesca.
“It’s an honor to speak to you, Your Highness. This banquet is marvellous.”
“It’s okay.”
The [Princess] responded in that frank way of children. She glanced around, then lowered her voice.
“But it’s for Dame Eclizza, and she hates people making a fuss over her. The light show is very appealing, and the Players of Celum are delightful. You should meet both, Miss Eyon.”
She delivered that with all of a [Princess]’ dull training, but then added with a spark of independence.
“I just wish the Wind Runner were here! Did you see her on the news?”
It was indecorous, but Oesca was nine. And everyone had seen Ryoka Griffin’s daring rescue of that Lizardgirl a while ago. Here, too, Eyon said the most interesting thing.
“Ah, Ryoka Griffin? She is a daring woman. Have you met her yourself, Princess Oesca?”
“I have! And she gave me flying lessons and showed me how fast she can run and how to backflip—even if I’m not allowed to, yet—and she let me see her Faeblade, but not touch it.”
And she broke Lord Sammial Veltras out of the palace, killed Magistrate Fithea—we think—and cut off Archmage Eldavin’s head after paralyzing Baron Regalius. Terrible acts, but Itorin knew more than most; he’d hushed the death of Magistrate Fithea up, and he was well aware that Duke Rhisveri had first kidnapped Ryoka. Whether or not she’d tried to steal something from him to begin with, the immortal cabal had been the ones who’d orchestrated this entire affair.
They were a necessary evil in Ailendamus, but the [King] couldn’t grieve too long over losing Fithea, despite the fact that she was a national war asset. He liked Ryoka as a fellow mortal caught in the game of the ageless. So on the whole, Itorin was minded to forgive her, especially because of the Eldavin part. Eyon nodded, impressed.
“My, that is impressive. Backflipping is terribly dangerous, though, Princess Oesca. I should be quite careful if I were you.”
“I can do it! If I was allowed.”
Oesca shot a dark glance at her mother, and her older sister laughed.
“I can do a backflip! I’ll teach you, Oesca!”
The girl brightened up, and Eyon murmured.
“That is the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I’m…glad she was kind to you. She likes children. And it seems you were never in danger. That’s not always been the case.”
Again, Itorin’s head turned from eying some of Taima and Guros’ people. They were such a headache—Oesca blinked.
“She’s rescued more children than just the Lizardgirl and Sammy?”
“Oh, yes. Several. You know about Hethon and Sammial Veltras when she outran the Assassin’s Guild? She’s saved a Gnoll girl too. The one that was at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“The white Gnoll? I mean, the Doombearer?”
“The very same. I think Ryoka taught her to backflip. And frontflip, sadly.”
“She did?”
Now, how did Eyon know that? Itorin knew it, but he kept up to date on…he snapped his fingers under the table.
Of course! I know who she is! He beckoned a servant over, and the flustered man bent down.
“Your Majesty, we cannot identify Miss Eyon. Nor how she entered Ailendamus. If the Duke vouches for her, we must trust his word, but no [Appraisal] spells are working…”
“Naturally. Drop the inquiry. I rather suspect she is part of the kingdom.”
Itorin sat back, smiling at Rhisveri, who eyed him. It was so obvious—
She was a [Spy]! Who else had the training, poise, and knowledge of this young woman? She was so refined—too refined. Rhisveri had gotten some poor [Infiltrator] to cover his tail. Itorin grew markedly less interested and sighed, acknowledging the Wyrm’s genius.
He turned his attention away from Eyon telling a fascinated Oesca about the white Gnoll and Ryoka Griffin’s exploits. She was very good with the young [Princess].
It was Ozena who decided to stir the pot. She didn’t return home often, so preoccupied with pursuing her mastery on multiple fronts. She’d been demanding to be an adventurer or join the army—both ideas that Itorin hated. Gifted didn’t mean invincible…and it was Uziel’s private analysis that Ozena wasn’t on the level of a real Gold-ranker yet.
‘Talented, well-bred, and gifted with too much. The first time she’s punched hard enough to break her jaw, she’ll waver, and that will be the end of her.’
The Agelum was frank in his analysis, and he was always right. Overconfidence had to be curtailed in Ozena or she had to be trained until she could survive those deadly mistakes. Itorin was actually thinking of bringing her in on the secret and letting her train in House Shoel…
However, Ozena enjoyed her fame. How could one not? She was young, extremely attractive among her peers, famous…and used to hero worship from her younger brothers and Oesca.
Seeing the girl talking up the Wind Runner made Ozena remark with a carrying voice—
“She’s still a known troublemaker who’s broken laws in Ailendamus, Oesca. And she can’t be that capable or she would have rescued the entire family, not just that Lizardgirl. Isn’t that the point of the ‘Windy Girl’ puppetshow? She’s a silly Courier.”
Oesca turned as the conversation died down at the table. The younger [Princess] protested.
“I like that show! It’s about making mistakes and doing better! Ryoka’s funny!”
“Doesn’t she fly by farting?”
Votrin remarked to Ivenius, and the young [Squire] in training nearly snorted soup out his nose. Oesca’s older siblings were markedly less impressed than Oesca by the Wind Runner, who they hadn’t met like she had. However, someone else rose to Ryoka’s defense.
“The Windy Girl and Rhissy is a beloved television show across Ailendamus. Which I invented. The Wind Runner collects enemies and children like Baron Regalius collects socks. She’s still a Courier, Princess Ozena. I would work more on your magic before challenging her to her face.”
Rhisveri sneered at Ozena. She flushed slightly, and Eyon spoke with a smile.
“She’s normally Izril’s Courier, Princess Oesca, but they do go everywhere! If I should meet her, I’ll remind the Wind Runner to visit Ailendamus so she may let you fly again. If you do the same for me.”
That was cleverly done. Oesca beamed and promised and offered her pinkie; they made a promise, and Itorin smiled. Right until he heard Ozena mutter to her brothers.
“Well, we’d better put some more [Knights] into Oesca’s bodyguard if she comes back. That Gnoll girl she saved had white fur, right? That means the Wind Runner got her entire tribe killed. She seems to bring bad luck with her. Unless it was the Doombearer who brought the bad luck.”
It was a petty comment, but no more out-of-hand than what Ozena had said so far. However, this time, Itorin sensed a flare of heat from his right. He glanced over, and now, he distinctly caught an aura suppressing itself.
A strong one. He eyed Eyon, now second-guessing his take on her class. [Spies] didn’t have auras like that. But Eyon fixed on Ozena as Oesca glared at her older sister. It was Rhisveri who laughed hugely.
“Look at the time! Eyon, I’d better introduce you to Eclizza and Regalius and—everyone. Let’s just, ah—”
He tried to take her arm, and Eyon did stand to curtsy and smile at Oesca. It was Oiena who murmured.
“I believe my daughter has been indecorous, Miss Eyon. Do forgive us. It’s the Gura blood.”
She was referring to Taimaguros, the empire split into two parts, Taima and Gura, who warred with each other and claimed their ‘side’ was better. It made Itorin’s head hurt whenever he had to deal with both, but Eyon just smiled at the [Queen].
“I understand completely, Your Majesty. Gura is as fiery and opinionated as they say. I have never visited the Dominion, but I should love to admire it. Well, one side of it.”
That pleased Queen Oiena, but not Ozena. She was giving Eyon a rather annoyed gaze. Like…she saw Eyon as competition.
That was an odd instinct. Itorin didn’t sense it, but his eldest daughter might have been tuned into something in her class. She stood as Eyon let Rhisveri escort her away from the main table.
“Ozena.”
Itorin said one word, warningly, and his daughter tossed her shimmering hair at him. She strode after the two and moved just close enough to do something very petty.
She shoved Eyon.
Not physically. Rather, it was the kind of thing a noblewoman learned in court. You took your aura and used it where you couldn’t use a hand or foot. Pushed—and made the other person stumble.
It could get more advanced, of course, such as blasting someone with an aura to leave them dizzy, or even being so subtle that you shoved a dagger of manifested aura in someone else’s ribs. They might not even know they were wounded until they dropped dead later that night. Itorin had heard that had happened once in Taimaguros.
He expected to see Eyon stumble into Rhisveri and perhaps fall over and was thinking of a punishment when the opposite happened.
He saw Ozena’s aura lash out fast and subtly—nearly invisible unless you knew what she was about to do. It hit Eyon—and bounced back so fast that it hit the [Princess] in the face.
No, wait, Eyon’s aura had lashed back out! It was so quick that Itorin blinked. He’d seen aura battles by masters, and that had been incisive. Like a counter-punch in a fistfighter’s bout.
Oesca’s mouth dropped open, and Oiena blinked.
“My, did you see that, dear?”
Itorin didn’t respond. He saw his eldest daughter blink, as if she didn’t know what had happened. She kept walking, shaking her head, and then feeling at her eyes and, he realized—her vision.
It had gotten her—
Wham. Princess Ozena walked straight into a servant carrying a tray of shot glasses of celebratory mead. The crash and cry was terrible. Down the [Princess] went, still clearly unable to see for a good ten seconds. When she rose, red-faced, the entire ballroom was watching her.
And they’d gotten that one on television. Oh dear. Itorin made a point to rise in concern and spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Oesca, check on the servant.”
The [Princess] left the royal table to hurry over to the servant to check if he was well. Ozena was on her feet, red-cheeked, apologizing—she turned to find Eyon, but Itorin got to the [Princess] first.
He threw his aura like a pigeon across the room and hit her—just enough to be more of a tap on the shoulder. She jerked around, and he shook his head.
Drop it. Blushing, angry, she hesitated, and the [King] sat back down.
“These things happen. Please, Oesca, help find an unbroken cup, and we shall all toast our hardest-working folk today!”
He had the nervous [Servant] brought forwards and made that the center of attention. Ozena had to retire to change clothes, embarrassed, and the matter was left at that for now. But now, Itorin was watching Eyon closely as she began to mingle with the others. He beckoned again for a servant.
“Find out who that is. That’s no [Spy] or servant. Oiena?”
The [Queen] was watching Eyon too. And she murmured.
“She’s hiding who she is. A Skill. That’s why we’re not figuring it out, Itorin. It’s certainly not that dreadful hair dye.”
He blinked. He hadn’t even realized her hair was dyed black. The [King]’s fingers began drumming on the table with genuine interest. What kind of Skill worked on royalty like him?
Or perhaps—
What level was she?
 
——
 
Lyonette got a plate of food to cool down from that incident with Princess Ozena. It was as she was fussing over a table that she caught herself and wondered what the hell she was doing.
Here she was in the heart of Ailendamus, the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, the nation that had nearly wiped out her home.
They had killed thousands of her people, put her sisters under siege—and she was just talking and dining with the [King] and Rhisveri, the masterminds of the entire war.
This was wrong. She bit her lip hard as she stood there, staring down at her plate.
I buried my daughter too recently for this. I beheld the Goblin King and the end of worlds. I met Queen Marquin’s eyes, and she was everything I ever dreamed of and so much more. 
I should be trying to get Tessa back. I’ve ignored her, again. What am I doing?
The worst part was that she had been enjoying herself. Not Ozena sniping at her, but teaching that haughty young woman a lesson had been fun. Oesca? Delightful. King Itorin was good at politicking; she had thought her father would have liked trading coded quips with him over dinner.
But they were enemies. That was the problem. Blood had been spilled, and even if Rhisveri could approach her with a smile…
“Good job on that haughty Ozena. I’ve known worse, but I rather enjoyed that. Let’s meet my ‘friends’ and—”
“Rhisveri, I want to leave.”
His eyes widened in alarm.
“What? Don’t be silly. Ozena won’t hold a grudge, and if she tries something, I’ll teleport her into the biggest lake in the empire. No one noticed a thing. You’ve been doing…quite well, actually. And the dress is impressive. Real classic magic, that. Not some cheap ‘one ball and falls apart’ nonsense.”
He looked her up and down, and Lyonette hissed at him as a bulky [Knight] stepped over. Ushar activated a [Silence] spell as she glared up at him.
“Our nations are at war. This isn’t funny to me.”
“What—oh, that? That’s just politics, as I said.”
The Wyrm’s cavalier tone made Lyonette stomp down hard—and she had heels. He dodged.
“Yow, don’t do that! That kick hurt like hell. I’ve added a lot of mana to this body in case I have to dance, and the sensations—”
“You began a war with my home! Do you think I’m going to just forget that? You—I dealt and talked with you because I had to, but this is too much.”
Lyonette’s wave took in the entire ballroom, which had split, and the first dances were beginning as the music began to play. Not Cara’s music; something classical. She recognized the dances, and it filled her with heartache and nostalgia, but this was not her home. And the Wyrm?
He caught one hand before she could push him away. He seemed genuinely confused.
“But it’s a healthy kingdom. Or do you disagree? Look: commonfolk are in this royal gathering. They’re not malnourished. We could collect ten thousand nobles from across the kingdom in less than a week’s time. The food’s good.”
He indicated pickled beets on top of a complex little salad she’d put on her plate—she’d already had dinner in The Wandering Inn, but she was peckish. There were foods from all over the world, but Lyonette yanked her hand away.
“So? My kingdom is just as beautiful. The Eternal Throne is beyond this ballroom. It’s my kingdom who’s suffered during your war. Rusha, are you doing okay in that armor?”
She spun away. Ushar answered in a strangled voice.
“Trying not to spill anything on it, Miss Eyon. It’s, uh, very heavy. All the other [Knights] ask how I train in it and what Order I’m from. I’m managing.”
Lyonette patted her arm.
“Hang in there. Well, Rhisveri?”
She wanted to vent her frustration at him and knew this wasn’t the moment. Even with [Silence], there might be lipreaders in the crowd—well, she was being vague. The Duke just ruffled a hand through his hair.
He normally either looked supremely arrogant or silly and defeated in her mind. But right now, he only seemed surprised. The Duke glanced around and saw several people waiting in line for the salad and not-quite-glaring at them.
“Not here. Come on—”
He grabbed her hand again and began towing her across the ballroom. He was too strong; Lyonette glowered as she followed rather than cause a scene. Then there was the hum of a violin; he cursed as a man and woman moved towards them.
“Excuse me—”
He pivoted, and Lyonette acted on reflex. She took his arm and stepped in tandem with him. Rhisveri blinked down at her.
“What are you doing?”
“Dancing, you idiot! You just brought us onto the floor!”
She turned, and he copied her. Rhisveri cast around and saw a dozen men and women—he groaned.
“Oh no, Regalius’ damn dancing. Hold on, let’s just walk—”
“Do you want to look like a fool? Everyone’s watching!”
He was the most thoughtless person she’d ever met, and she worked for Erin! Lyonette turned, and Rhisveri followed her, copying the slow waltz.
Dead gods, I’m on television! I hope my [Conceal Reputation] Skill is working! That and the dyed hair; those were the only precautions Lyonette had taken for this ill-timed affair.
She hissed at Rhisveri as he stared down at their feet.
“I should have refused, but you were so pathetic—”
“Ah, I forgot you lot were so nationalistic. Hold on, I’m memorizing this stupid dance.”
His eyes flickered, and then he looked up and casually swung her around as she twirled. Lyonette blinked and almost missed her steps. She knew this one, a rather easy routine, but how did he—?
“You just learned it?”
“Memorized it. I’m glad I had practice in that other palace or I’d miss my footwork. I don’t dance as a rule, but I can if I want to.”
“You and what feet?”
The Wyrm smiled archly at her.
“I’m a man of many talents. Did you forget the songs? That was purely impromptu.”
She had almost forgotten that silly event with the [Songmistress]…Lyonette shook her head.
“I’m not going to compliment you. So you’re a wonderfully talented monster.”
His face fell, and she clarified.
“A warmonger. How can you not care about the people your war killed? Your war. I know you could have done something about it.”
A [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil and a blushing [Lady] whirled past them, and Rhisveri raised one eyebrow. There was that expression on his face again. Not pure, superior arrogance or the look of a fool.
More an exasperated skepticism of an intelligent man. He put his arm in the crook of hers, and they rotated. Rhisveri stared across the vast ballroom.
“Calanfer can’t afford this. Don’t argue, just listen. I know you have a ballroom this big in the ‘Eternal Throne’. That doesn’t count. That was a gift. Yes, it’s beautiful, perhaps more beautiful than Ailendamus’ palace in some places. But you could not do what we do so casually tonight.”
“So your nation is rich. Does that give it casus belli?”
She scowled at him, using her own Latin. Rhisveri just gazed down at her with old eyes.
“The war kills peasants and nobles alike. It’s a war; a terrible act by default. But let me put it to you like this: this ball will kill no one. Unless some idiot chokes on a mackerel or something.”
“Few balls kill anyone—aside from the occasional poisoning, assassination, or duel!”
She rolled her eyes, and Rhisveri’s brows rose.
“Really? In my experience, they kill more than a few. Not that you’d notice. Let’s say a nobleman puts on a ball in another nation. It costs a fortune. So maybe he raises taxes on his [Peasants]. [Peasants], a class devoted to serving nobles. He might have to confiscate some food if it’s a winter shortage. Or maybe he goes hunting and hangs [Poachers] or just people desperate enough for it. Someone drops a tray at his palace and they’re whipped. Or it just costs money and he doesn’t build the bridge that year for the spring floods. The ball kills someone in Calanfer. Not here. We don’t have [Peasants].”
She opened her mouth, surprised by how he thought. But hadn’t Ryoka talked about that? Lyonette hissed back as they passed by a duo, a young giggling couple.
“I can see your logic, and I don’t respect it. Is your point that Ailendamus is better? That all nations should fall under your control? I have heard that before.”
He shrugged, calm as he and she traced a more complicated pattern of steps. She had to work on it now, but neither one missed a beat. She wished she didn’t enjoy doing it so much.
If my [Tutors] and Mother could see this…I wish I could dance like this back home. Not like how Erin dances, but this.
She was royalty, and Rhisveri murmured.
“Wars are endemic to kingdoms, Lyonette. If it were not Ailendamus’ conquest, do you know what Terandrian kingdoms would do? They’d launch another Crusade. Against which foe? Demons? Very laudable. Send the peasants and [Knights] to die on hell’s shores for your glory. Baleros? Bring back Lizardfolk [Slaves] like last time.”
“We don’t have [Slaves] on Terandria in any numbers!”
“No, of course you don’t. Anymore.”
His gaze was so scornful, and he added at her confusion.
“The seventh Nagatine Empire’s fall. Look it up. I was there, you know. The defeated always suffer more, because, well, they lost, they deserve it. Wars are such a good excuse for a nation to ignore their problems. Yes, Ailendamus makes war, because each one brings something important.”
“And what does the Dawn Concordat bring? The Eternal Throne?”
He never blinked.
“That. You know why we’d want that. But also—the coast. The mountains of Kaliv are an endless amount of vertical space. The forests of Gaiil-Drome?”
“All owned by people who don’t wish to be Ailendamus’!”
She countered, and the Wyrm shrugged.
“We haven’t had a rebellion in any province in a long time. It strikes me that the ‘commonfolk’ don’t really care about who wears the crown if life is good.”
“You treat them like…cattle. Like children to be managed while you decide everything.”
She glared as the music died down to applause, and he offered her a bow.
“Yes. Don’t you? That’s what royalty is all about.”
He left her unable to articulate a response and so angry that she didn’t curtsey and followed him off the dance-floor fuming. Especially because she realized he had a point. She needed to think up an answer—but he’d caught her. Ielane would have had him for lunch, but she…
Calanfer wasn’t that poor! It had [Peasants], but they weren’t starving! Yet Lyonette recalled there had been a famine when she was growing up. And, well, it was mostly hard to make an argument against the privilege of royalty. Because she, Lyon the Peon-Hater, had lived that mindset.
But he was the Wyrm. Was that what he truly believed, or was it just convenient for him to argue with her?
Rhisveri was getting a drink, and Lyonette was thinking on how to re-engage with him, when someone meowed. She turned and came face-to-face with a furless cat wearing a sweater.
Oh, and a [Lady], who smiled at her.
“I recognize that expression. Clashing with the good Duke is never pleasant—if he’s in fine form. On his worst days, he’s just another loudmouth in the Court of Masks, but at his best, he’ll cut you down like a Gold-bell [Duelist]. I’ve stormed off more than once when he’s decided to pick on me. Miss Eyon? May I introduce myself to you? I’m Lady Yietha du Ecte.”
Lyonette’s towering fury was interrupted by her need to smile and compose herself—she contained the ball of anger into her chest and replaced it with a hurried smile.
“Oh. Oh—the wife of, um, the esteemed Baron Regalius?”
The name popped into her mind, and Yietha laughed, delighted.
“You are good. This is Grumpy. He enjoys headpats. I shouldn’t have brought him, but everyone wanted to meet him, and he’s better around company than you’d think.”
She showed the cat to Lyonette, and contrary to his name, the cat tried to lick her hand when she reached out to pet his head.
“A naked cat. I’ve heard of them—that is such a beautiful sweater.”
The cat didn’t even seem to mind wearing it, and Yietha smiled proudly.
“I knit them myself. It’s a blend of cotton and a specific type of hemp so it doesn’t wear out or bother their skin. Do you like cats?”
“We have one at my abode—though he’s rather insane. I apologize if I made a scene in any way.”
Yietha just chuckled as Lyonette grew red-cheeked, wondering how many people had seen the not-so-subtle strife.
“Miss Eyon, if I were to survey the nobility who live in the capital or visit regularly, I don’t know if I could find more than a dozen who have not clashed with the good Duke on some matter or other. He is rather famous for it. Though, may I ask what it was about? I confess, I overheard some of it while dancing.”
Lyonette hesitated for a microsecond, having to word around her identity, then spoke airily.
“Oh, something trivial. We were discussing the cost of war, the Dawn Concordat’s example being the most prescient. Duke Rhisveri rather seems to think Ailendamus’s virtues outweigh the strife of war itself on any conquered nation!”
Too late she remembered her audience and added hastily.
“Not that I would impugn Ailendamus in any way! It’s just—does the sovereignty of another crown have no weight or meaning? What stick does he measure Ailendamus by, and his use of it on other nations feels unfair. In my opinion.”
Lady Yietha didn’t immediately fly to Rhisveri’s defense as Lyonette thought she might. Instead, she transferred her cat to the other arm, stroking his head as he purred, and seemed to consider Lyonette’s words before actually replying. And her voice did lower as she spoke.
“As someone who was not always a noblewoman of Ailendamus myself, Miss Eyon, I must say that love for homeland runs in my veins, however young Ailendamus is. I am quite receptive to the idea that Ailendamus is…overly aggressive in how it tries to bring its idea of prosperity to other kingdoms.”
She gestured around at some commonfolk, who had brought their goods from their homes to show off and were speaking with nobility who didn’t seem openly scornful of them.
“For every citizen who thinks fondly of Ailendamus, you may find their parents or grandparents who remember the Kingdom of Glass and Glory far worse. It has been the work of [Bards] and experts in reconciliation to keep our many peoples together. And perhaps—the kingdoms that fell to Ailendamus were doing worse than they might, which prompted the peoples to rather accept their new home.”
Fine, excellent points! Lyonette was adding a few more of her own as she nodded briskly, arming herself to take Rhisveri down. Then Yietha threw a disarming blow straight into Lyonette’s righteous fury.
“However, that is the privilege of a noblewoman who has never seen war. And a [Merchant]’s daughter, who lived quite well before that. I think, Miss Eyon, commonfolk of both the Dawn Concordat and Ailendamus would rather an end to the fighting. It is valiant of both nations to continue the war, in many respects, but we here are not the ones who fight and die. It is the [Knights], [Soldiers], and commonfolk who have no voice at all in these debates, which I do think are well said between the two of you!”
She offered Lyonette a bob of the head, and the [Princess] flushed. All the fire she had for Rhisveri was doused, as if Yietha had thrown a bucket of water over her. The polite reminder that Lyonette had no notion of the war that had been fought was so incredibly embarrassing the [Princess] wanted to vanish.
Even Tyrion Veltras and Dame Ushar saw more of the war than I did. She wished she had something to drink, and Dame Ushar passed her a wineglass—Lyonette took a deep draft and then spoke, red-cheeked.
“You raise wonderfully eloquent points, Miss Yietha. If I may say so, I’d hate to arouse your wrath.”
The woman laughed in delight.
“I hope I wasn’t too pointed! I have argued this point time and again. Mine is a peaceful voice in the minority, usually. I do apologize. And there is someone else who wishes to speak with you.”
She beckoned someone over. Lyonette was apologizing again for the scene, but the man who strode over and beamed at her was even more sociable than Yietha. He had a mustache that curled at both ends, and his smile was like an infection for which there was no cure.
“Nonsense. We’ve all been dying to meet the legendary lady who can rival the Duke. From the way you handled yourself, I can almost believe you two see each other. Though my husband is a skeptic.”
She gave Lyonette a glance under the lid of her eyelashes, and Lyonette realized that Yietha was very good at dissembling. She wore a lilac shawl over a maroon dress cut in an oddly formal pattern, almost like Drake togas, but overlapping, each layer of light cloth a subtly different shade of red.
Unlike Nanette, the dress was hardly offensive to the eye, and the subtleties could be appreciated the closer you got. The quirk of Lady Yietha was in the odd ribbons of blue cloth, written with golden text that hung from her clothing.
Words were scrawled on the ribbons, like ‘Perseverance’ or ‘Dignity’. Virtues, Lyonette supposed. If you wanted to be uncharitable, it made the [Lady] look like she was festooned with bookmarks, but Lyonette knew this style. She’d seen [Knights] of Ailendamus doing the same, often with the names of the dead or vows written on them.
Yietha’s husband was wearing a matching outfit; the coat he wore was hung with smaller names, that of [Knights], like a living record of ranks. It gave both a very patriotic feel that might have been mocked in Calanfer’s courts. But they seemed disarmingly genuine and casual about the attire. In fact, neither one so much as commented on it, as if it were only natural to wear such dresses, which was self-confidence and style in and of itself.
Baron Regalius strode over with a laugh and such a firm handshake and infectious presence she smiled despite herself.
“I don’t doubt that Duke Rhisveri meets lovely young women of excellent acumen! I just…find it hard to believe they can’t do better. Don’t tell him I said that, though.”
He made a show of glancing around, and Lyonette laughed as she saw other nobles drifting towards her.
“Are you all the Duke’s friends? I confess, he doesn’t talk much about his peers.”
“Ah, that sounds like him. But Miss Eyon, I have a bet of substantive proportions that you’ve been hired for tonight. I am not asking you to betray your contract, but I will accept hints.”
A smiling [Retired General] introduced himself as Lord Bathnir before being scolded by his wife and Yietha.
“Lord Bathnir, you mustn’t be that forward! He’s all strategy. Frontal assaults and never anything circumspect, Miss Eyon.”
Yietha turned back to Lyonette, and she raised one black eyebrow.
“And then you would be the scouting party, Lady Yietha? And the rest of this fine company ready to besiege the breach? Is Duke Rhisveri your friend or sworn enemy?”
That set them all laughing. They were all incredibly sharp, Lyonette realized. She wished it were not so surprising; Rhisveri wouldn’t surround himself with dunces, but Regalius handed her a cup of wine and her plate of food.
“I rescued it from the table. Can you blame us for wondering? Rhisveri is all pride. An intelligent man, but you have to keep such a fellow honest. That he suffers it is well enough, but if you are, in fact, acquainted with him, you must be delightful to speak to.”
A half-Elf muttered drily.
“You must have the patience of a Golem, Miss Eyon.”
“Hush, he’s coming back.”
The laughing, merry group welcomed Rhisveri back, and he eyed Lyonette.
“Well, here she is. She exists. Eyon, this is the motley crowd I associate with. Mostly in the Court of Masks.”
“Ah, I’ve heard of that.”
Unlike Ryoka, Lyonette du Marquin did know the notable things in Ailendamus, and she was curious about the place where everyone could speak their mind. Someone snapped her fingers and produced a colorful shower of sparks.
“Another thing you’ve never shown this young woman, Your Grace? Highly suspicious. She’s never been to the capital, even once?”
Rhisveri scowled at the woman.
“Detrida, your illusion spells are miscalibrated. And this is her first visit to Ailendamus, I’m almost positive. She’s a private woman.”
“Doubtful. I think a young woman who could best our Princess Ozena wouldn’t be that retiring.”
Yietha murmured quietly. Lyonette blushed, realizing they’d all seen that. But the next thing she knew, they were heading out of the ballroom.
“Just a quick visit to the Court of Masks won’t hurt. So you can say you saw it. Though we mustn’t miss the lightshow. Have you met Dame Eclizza, Miss Eyon?”
“Not, ah, not yet. May I ask what you do in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, Lady Yietha?”
“Oh, I help Regalius host [Knights] in celebration at our mansion. It’s a full-time job; we must have a party every night. We’re the fluff and fancy of the capital.”
“A vital position. Men and women must feel they matter.”
Regalius put in, and despite herself, she liked him. Because he understood why pomp existed. Plus, their cat was very cute. He was, in fact, a magical cat and had the ability to levitate food off people’s plates towards him if he scrunched up his face as hard as possible.
And he ate beets. Lyonette was so enthralled in feeding Grumpy beets that she didn’t realize they were at the famous Court of Masks until someone was offering a mask to her. And then she just had to go in and try it…
 
——
 
The Court of Masks was fascinating on an intellectual level. Lyonette quite enjoyed it, though she could see why Ryoka had decided to try and burn it all down on principle. That was just like the contrary Courier. However, she didn’t linger there long. There was so much more to see in the sprawling palace!
In the rush to enter the banquet properly, Lyonette hadn’t actually taken in the palace nor the people properly. Used to Calanfer’s wealth, she could gloss over a lot of richness as normal, not worth even commenting upon. But Ailendamus…
That the flooring was marble or smoothed stone was a given and just good architecture. Few materials were harder than stone or longer-lasting; wooden floors gave way or needed refinishing and resurfacing far too fast. Crystal or magical materials were also acceptable, but what you did with the floor mattered.
In each section of the palace, the flooring changed in a way that should have been disastrous and clashing. But it was like travelling from one zone to another, because, well, it was.
“—And here is the old Antivon palace. Note the zig-zag design on the tiles, the one that seems to roam endlessly?”
Lyonette gazed at a royal blue tile that interrupted the placid, whiter marble like a snake slithering left, right, even across the walls in places.
“Oh dear. That could be distracting.”
The blue snake had a golden body, and Regalius followed it as it split and branched. He turned to Lyonette as he had to twirl across the ground to keep from stepping outside the ‘lines’.
“One of the old Antivon family loved their son so much that they laid this funny path that traces every step he took. It changes, you see. One day, it’s this, the next, quite straightforward. Children—and adults—will follow it for hours on end. The game is not to leave the pattern.”
“Children, adults, and Barons, my love. Oh, and here’s another oddity of the Antivon’s—they loved pillars, but hated those big columns. See?”
A forest of thin trees rose from ground to ceiling, supporting the palace walls. Lyonette blinked, astonished; they were slightly hazardous where they grouped up and surely a nightmare to clean around.
“Wherever for…?”
“Earthquakes, I think. A central column collapsed and they realized the crack in the masonry had been buried deep. One of their [Architects] had the concept—why not build many smaller columns? If one fails, the rest will support the weight. And then, as we pass through here, you can see the old Rendova Palace. Dreadful people. Marvellous interior decorators.”
Red marble. It would have been an affront to the eye on a level that even Nanette couldn’t comprehend, except that the designers had paired the red stone with as many offsetting colors as possible. Not contrasting, just relaxing the eye until you didn’t feel like you were walking through an animal’s stomach, but a foreign landscape that demanded the bright lights hung from specialized chandeliers which filled the Rendova palace like the sky.
Of course, the marriage between these contrasting palaces, like the whimsical Antivon’s and Rendova’s, was the actual masterstroke. Bridging the gap between the two styles without feeling like someone had literally chopped a palace up and carted it here—which is what had happened—was the work of transitionary hallways, which made you feel like you were walking through a changing season.
Blue giving way to red. Lyonette gazed up at the tiles transforming colors and, for a moment, had an image of Rhisveri, as if a vast, multi-colored snake were passing her by.
“Marvellous, isn’t it? One of Duke Rhisveri’s ancestors apparently proposed the design.”
Regalius murmured. Lyonette nodded, and he extended a hand.
“Let me know if there is anything you’d like to focus on. You can spend weeks touring the palace without lingering on a single thing. Thire’s palace is the central wing—you hardly see it since the royal family lives in it. But we’re at Rendova-Antivon. Friends? Antivon’s bathing pools or Rendova’s steel art gallery?”
He took a vote of the others, and two-third chorused.
“Galleries!”
Yietha settled the matter by taking them towards the crimson palace.
“The bathing pools are very well without crowds, Regalius. Don’t be silly. Now, all the metal in the galleries was made by their rulers and the most talented [Artists] of the day, Miss Eyon. It’s a game to guess whether it was a royal hand or commoner who made each piece. Usually, you can guess, but sometimes there was actual talent in the family…”
Onwards they went, Lyonette shocked to silence at first by the vastness of the palace.
And every wing was full of people. Commonfolk and nobles. In fact, some of Rhisveri’s group weren’t noble at all. When they reached the garden, Lyonette thought she’d seen far too many encounters of commoners talking to their betters.
This wouldn’t occur in Calanfer, even in the most relaxed setting. At least, not without more adherence to protocol. It didn’t make her think Rhisveri was more correct. But it gave her perspective; the Court of Masks was an example of how Rhisveri and his allies thought.
Equality preserved by the mask. 
Even so, she wasn’t quite at home. Everything here still spoke of the enemy, and she wasn’t in a position to ferret out state secrets, so she was a bit at a loss of what to do. She kept getting distracted and enjoying herself asking Regalius how he did his ceremonies, or talking about all the things Ailendamus had—like massive glassblowing facilities. They produced glass for the entire continent!
It was Dame Ushar who snapped her out of it. Lyonette had seen her [Knight] doing her best to shadow her, but in this place, Lyonette felt very safe. There were guards everywhere, and if someone attacked her or slipped poison into her drink…
She noticed Ushar doing what all the off-duty [Knights] were doing: having a conversation with the nobility. Lyonette stepped back as Rhisveri’s group mingled outside and eavesdropped on a conversation between Ushar and a rather rude noblewoman.
“Ah, another foreign [Knight]. Which Order are you, Dame Knight?”
“I’m an independent [Knight], Your Ladyship. May I take it from your attire you are of Taimaguros?”
“Gura, yes. Dead gods, well, one supposes Ailendamus vets its guests. You’re not one of the ‘Ghosttouched’ nobles or some peasant of the same ilk who found some armor, I trust!”
Rather too-loud laughter. The Gura representative had a drop of blue hanging from her temples. Taima liked red—Lyonette saw Ushar tilt her head.
“Ghosttouched, Lady?”
“Yes, haven’t you heard? Or are you from abroad?”
A more cunning gaze—or an attempt at one. Ushar bowed slightly.
“I have been abroad with my ward, yes.”
“Aaah. Well, it’s not Taimaguros alone. They’ve been all over the place ever since last year. You truly haven’t heard? I heard it was more common in Terandria, but—they’re madmen and women. They claim to be ‘chosen’ or to be given quests. By ghosts!”
The laughter wasn’t joined by Ushar or Lyonette, whose eyes widened. The ghosts!
“And they are purely delusional, Lady?”
“Well, some find trinkets or claim to have classes—but it’s nonsense. We have one particular problem I intend to bring up to His Majesty. A native problem. Anyways, what was your question?”
Ushar had noticed Lyonette eavesdropping and shifted her feet, but it seemed she was too desperate to not ask.
“I…was merely inquiring as to the health of His Highness of Gura. And, uh, Prince Kanmis of Calanfer?”
“That traitor who married into Taima? Doing just fine. As for our Prince…no, I don’t think I’ve heard anything. He’s still sick, I suppose. Why?”
“Merely inquiring into his health, Your Ladyship.”
Ushar bowed hurriedly and stepped back as Lyonette smiled at the confused woman. But her mind was racing.
Wait, wait. Kanmis? No! No way! He was the 2nd Prince of the realm, but he had gone to Taimaguros and been co-opted by the other nation. He never visited, and Ielane considered him a rogue asset.
Was he the one that Ushar was interested in? Impossible. But…Ushar was old enough to have served Calanfer for a long while. If she had once been attached to Prince Kanmis…who was this Prince of Gura who seemed to be in ill health?
A clue. Lyonette smiled at Ushar, who sighed through her helmet. The [Lady] of Gura turned to her.
“And you would be…”
Lyonette was introducing herself, but the [Lady] wasn’t interested. She did wave to Rhisveri, who turned from the group.
“Ah, there he is. Your Grace, Your Grace! I was just speaking to your lady here about the Ghosttouched. You must do something about the one in Taimaguros. He’s agitating the commonfolk.”
Rhisveri pulled a face at Lyonette as he muttered.
“Which one is that? It’s not our problem to deal with, Your Gura-loving Ladyship.”
“Nonsense. He came from your nation. He was at the battle at the capital, and then after that, he came back raving that the First King of Taimaguros himself had given him a mission! Unity over the feud. Ridiculous. He’s been imprisoned twice, but now he keeps escaping the [Knights] of both Taima and Gura.”
Lyonette exchanged a glance with Rhisveri, and for once, they were in agreement—this seemed to be an issue Ailendamus shouldn’t be involved in. Lyonette spoke gently.
“Perhaps his claim has some merit, Your Ladyship? Can he prove anything he claims?”
“Prove? He should be beheaded just for his words! A commoner chosen over a noble by the ghost of our founder? That’s treason enough. Off with his head, I say!”
The [Lady]’s loud words were not, in fact, earning her much support in the audience of Ailendamus. However, Rhisveri put on his best smile and chivvied the [Lady] towards a [Diplomat] whom she could vent to. When he came back, he muttered.
“Our best allies.”
“Such an appropriate ally for an enlightened nation such as yours! Beheading commoners for speaking above their place! I can see you embody your beliefs.”
Lyonette smiled sweetly at Rhisveri, and he grunted.
“I suppose I deserve that. It’s the realpolitik to lofty goals. Someone has to hold the Restful Three from swooping on us. Not that it’s working now that they’re riled up. Those damn…Earthers.”
He spoke the word casually and, Lyonette thought, deliberately. A passing man in robes whirled and nearly splashed the man he was talking to with wine. The tall, clean-shaven fellow leapt back with an oath, and the [Mage] apologized.
“I’m so sorry, sir. I was just stunned by that, uh—word. What did you say, Your Grace? Magus Telim, of Terras, here for your fine food and drink.”
Rhisveri accepted the handshake with a dour glower.
“And to show off more magic, no doubt. Did you teleport here?”
“Absolutely. Anything for a banquet.”
The magus was a rather well-fed fellow, but he was more charming than Lyonette expected. Cleverer too. He shook her hand, then fixed Rhisveri with a smile.
“So you’re, ah, aware of Earthers too?”
“I have no idea what you’re referring to, Magus Telim. What fascinates Wistram about the—what did you say?”
Rhisveri wore a snake’s smile, but Telim just chuckled and rubbed his belly.
“Oh, come now. Everyone’s been doing this song and dance, Your Grace. We’re two intelligent men. I heard what you said; you said it on purpose. This unpleasantness with the Archmage of Memory aside, can’t we speak frankly?”
“I don’t share information with the group that helped kill Great General Dioname.”
Rhisveri was not happy with the [Mage], but Telim just exhaled.
“War is a nasty business.”
“One that Ailendamus partook of, knowing the consequences.”
Lyonette stabbed Rhisveri in the back, and he gave her such a genuinely hurt gaze that she hesitated. But Telim beamed. He glanced up at some light spells that were making giant, long-necked creatures gallop across a grassy plain, chased by lions.
“Thank you, miss. A terrible business, but Wistram is willing to trade magic. Everything’s advancing, and we would hate to leave Ailendamus in the dust. Incidentally, do you like our illusions? Far higher quality. You can touch them. I made that myself. Giraffes, you know.”
Rhisveri just glanced up and sneered.
“Mere hardlight. When you can do smell, I’ll spare more than a glance at it.”
Telim rubbed at his chin thoughtfully, eying Rhisveri.
“You know, the Archmage said the exact same thing…well, perhaps Ailendamus is in way of being more competitor than friend. As for smells, I took a good whiff of those beasts and I felt like I’d rather hold off given the splendid event going on here. Certainly, you got the amazing, nay, incredible Players of Celum to perform here rather than at our academy! We were all terribly let down you know, Actor Wesle.”
He turned to the tall man who was brushing at his coat, and Lyonette’s jaw dropped and her heart began to thunder dangerously. Wesle stepped forwards with a bow, and he seemed taller, more confident, and certainly more impressive.
The [Actor] shook Rhisveri’s hand and laughed ruefully as he turned to Telim.
“I’m afraid we wanted to build a theater, Magus, and there’s just no room.”
“Yet. The Archmage was willing to build an entire—aw, it’s too late. I’ll just have to teleport to your latest performances. Have you seen them, Duke Rhisveri? Magnificent. I caught some scrying recordings of your work in Invrisil, but your levels make the new stuff incredible.”
Wesle bowed his head as Rhisveri rolled his eyes.
“No offense to your group, sir, but I’m not one for these…plays. But our Minister of Entertainment wouldn’t shut up until we hired you. I’m surprised he hasn’t accosted you.”
“Oh, Minister Sophridel? I think they dragged him off poor Emme back there. I hope I can impress you with some small performance though, Your Grace. Though I have to say…I can’t get your measure. You’re one of a handful of men I can’t read.”
Wesle eyed Rhisveri closely and got a smile from the Wyrm. Which said that he had read Rhisveri because that was the kind of thing that he liked to hear.
Wesle was so much more confident! And capable in situations like this. But Lyonette was trying to edge behind Ushar because—Rhisveri glanced around.
“Ah, manners. This is Miss Eyon. My date for the night.”
“Dead gods, you found one? Sa’la was nearly dying of—ahem.”
Telim blurted out, and Rhisveri’s glower intensified. Lyonette took Wesle’s hand as he looked her in the eyes and smiled.
“An honor to meet you, Miss…”
Ah, no. She saw his eyes grow confused and realized her Skill, [Conceal Reputation], might work on others, but he knew her. And he was far too high-level and experienced an [Actor] to be fooled by black hair.
“Is that—”
Before he could utter a word, Lyonette beamed and said the only thing she could think of.
“Fuzzylips! It’s me, Eyon! How long has it been?”
Telim and Rhisveri had been sipping from their cups and simmering at each other. When they heard the name, she saw them both blink and then make a calculated decision.
The two sprayed Winebreath Blasters at each other in a rather deliberate manner; wine flashed off barrier spells, and they both gave each other sinister eyes.
“Well played. I can see this isn’t your first Winebreath Blaster.”
Telim commented, and Rhisveri smiled nastily.
“Ever tried Umbral Throne diplomacy?”
“Oho. Oho, my friend, you may try—”
Their conversation was just a sidepiece to the one Lyonette and Wesle were having. He had levelled. His eyes widened, and he gave her an alarmed expression that focused on Rhisveri—and clearly, he understood what situation she was in, because the next moment, he threw his head back in a genuine laugh.
“Fuzzylips! Oh, dead gods, Eyon! I haven’t heard that since…how are you?”
He swung her around and then kissed her on the cheek. She was back in the center of attention, but now she had him on her side, and she was smiling.
“I came with Duke Rhisveri for the night. I never expected to see you here. Where’s Jasi?”
“Jasi? Sick, I’m afraid. The oysters got her. It’s just me, Emme, and Kilkran. They took us from Pheislant to here in a night! Magnificent—but you’re here on a date?”
Not being kidnapped or held hostage? His fingers squeezing her arms did the asking, and she gave him a relaxed smile.
“I hope to be feeding my dog sausages by morning at the latest.”
“Ah, the white one? How is Matty?”
“Well, she’s lost weight. Actually, it’s always chaos back home.”
“So I’ve heard. So I’ve…we haven’t had time to go back, you know. I would have sent some gold to help with all the troubles. We could if it’s needed, but you know, with the rest, it’s all political where we are.”
In Terandria where Erin is a wanted criminal and murderer of a [Prince]. Lyonette nodded tightly. As for the gold, she had no issues given the box.
The Players had been generous enough, really. They’d sent plenty of gold back until it had stopped—Lyonette just assumed it was going to Temile or their other projects and she hadn’t felt like it was needful to ask. She smiled warmly at the [Actor].
“Wesle, it is so good to see you. Rhisveri, he’s an old friend.”
The Wyrm wiped his mouth and eyed Wesle.
“Right. It’s always an old friend with you. I shouldn’t be surprised, really.”
He sounded calm, which was good, but she worried someone was reading into his words. Ah, well. She re-introduced Wesle to Rhisveri, hoping they could run into Emme and Kilkran before someone noticed.
 
——
 
The moment Regalius saw Actor Wesle’s reaction, he grabbed his wife.
“Yietha, our stalled mystery now has a clue! Did you see how he reacted?”
She was talking to none other than a servant of the crown and turned.
“I did indeed. She gave away nothing about herself, but that was unexpected for the both of them. Regalius, we’re on a mission from the crown. His Majesty wants to know who the Duke’s guest is too.”
“Magnificent. This is what I was hoping for.”
He rubbed his hands together. It was one thing to enjoy a nice banquet in honor of the Great Knight, of course, but this had his mind racing.
And all his co-conspirators’, which included not only Rhisveri’s friends from the Court of Masks, but servants of the crown. Regalius lowered his voice.
“They didn’t leak anything besides that they knew each other. But did you hear Rhisveri talking?”
“Old friends? I do believe he’s actually jealous. Maybe she’s seeing him after all?”
Yietha murmured, and General Bathnir muttered over his cup.
“That still makes her all the more fascinating. But a frontal assault won’t work twice with their guards up. I say we strike from the undefended tower.”
“The other two [Actors]? Of course.”
Regalius searched around, and someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“I do believe Manager Emme is with that fellow, Sophridel, touring the Court of Masks and the theatre he built for the Players. However, Actor Kilkran is in the main ballroom.”
A new voice. Surprised, Regalius turned and saw a [Mage] of Wistram there. A persona non grata in many ways, but he’d liberated an entire leg of seasoned goat and was levitating it behind him as he stuck out a hand.
“Telim. High Magus of Wistram, professional busybody, and expert gossip. I, too, would like to join in this delightful hunt for answers. Shall we?”
They went to find Kilkran. He was a tall and imposing bald man who was declaiming a few of his best lines with a voice like golden mead or thunder and assuring everyone that the Players of Celum would not disappoint. When Regalius interrupted, the man gave him a rather supercilious gaze.
“Excuse me, sir, but I was declaiming the Bard of Avon’s work. I know I’m among august company, but his words are unto that of kingliness. Nay, immortal words!”
He was slightly drunk or perhaps full of himself, but Regalius apologized smoothly.
“Do forgive me, Actor Kilkran, but I hoped you could identify yonder lady who’s speaking with Actor Wesle? We have a little bet running as to her identity.”
Kilkran glanced over as he took a sip from his drink. Then he frowned.
“I’m afraid I don’t recognize my many fans. So many, you see. Unless…wait a second…the hair’s wrong, but—dead gods. Is that—!?”
He almost said a name. No, he did say a name, and Regalius heard it, but it was sucked back into Kilkran’s mouth.
“[Retract Line]. Ah, excuse me, I misspoke. I, ah—I have to go and introduce—pardon me!”
He went running over, and Regalius rubbed at his ears.
“Dead gods, what was that? Did anyone catch that?”
“He used a Skill! Damn! I should have known an [Actor] could do that!”
Telim cursed. They saw Kilkran run into the garden, and his booming voice sounded before the mysterious Eyon threw her arms around him in a hug.
“Who is she? She knows the Players—and they are famous. She met the Duke…”
“But she’s not in Ailendamus. You were lip-reading her during the dance. What was that, Regalius?”
The Baron was using all of his talents to piece things together.
“A rather heated argument about the war. She was taking the Duke to task about Ailendamus and I think intimating she was on the wrong side of our armies.”
“So she’s in the Dawn Concordat.”
“Or Noelictus, Nadel, Pheislant…we have nothing to go on! There are plenty of capable women in all these nations, I’m bound to say! Damn, if only we had something to go off of! She’s using a Skill on us, and we can’t best it!”
The group groaned, and Regalius thought they were at their wit’s end when someone spoke.
“What about that ring?”
They turned and gasped. King Itorin II had joined the conversation as they locked onto Eyon. Regalius blinked.
“What ring, sire?”
“Do none of you see it?”
Itorin glanced around, and no one did. He frowned.
“I barely noticed it myself. Look. Right hand, not her ring finger.”
Then Regalius spotted it, as if it were something he’d failed to pay attention to and was obvious in hindsight.
“A brass…ring. That’s very odd. Brass? It’s plain, but—Magus?”
Telim was passing a hand over his eyes.
“Magical. Subtly, though. Very subtly. Powerful enchantment. If I hadn’t learned to upgrade beyond [Detect Magic], I’d never see it. That’s no Relic-grade enchantment, but it’s got enough force to be considered a top-tier artifact. Your Majesty, are you also interested in answers?”
“The Duke is my brother, Magus. I confess, yonder lady has been a delightful distraction tonight. Queen Oiena is also quite invested. If anyone knows jewelry, it would be her.”
“It could be any ring enchanted so finely, though, Your Majesty.”
Regalius protested in a bout of ignorance, and Yietha and Telim corrected him. His wife took his arm.
“As a matter of fact, Regalius, many rings must be designed to their function. If it’s an uncommon design, it will be a clue. Better yet…it might be possible to get a close look to see if there’s any writing on it.”
“And how shall we do that? Trip and fall and try to get a peek?”
Telim was ready to try, but Yietha just raised her arm.
“Oh, nothing so foolish. Grumpy? Can you look at the ring for me?”
The cat scratched at one chin, and Yietha coaxed him.
“I’ll give you a treat! Or His Majesty might offer something scrumptious?”
She turned, and Itorin promised.
“My personal [Chef] will see to it.”
The cat leapt from Yietha’s arms and instantly made for Eyon. Yietha smiled at Itorin, who was probably going to have to pay for some prime Griffin meat.
“I have a few [Beast Tamer] Skills, you see. I can get a mild image or a word of what he’s heard. Let’s see…”
The cat approached Eyon, dodging a [Knight] who tried to grab it, and she smiled and petted it. Yietha was focused on the air, staring, and then she gasped.
“Oh my. Oh my…oh my word. I think we had better consult with Her Majesty at once, sire! I have a very, very clear image of a word that explains everything.”
Everyone leaned in, and Regalius found his heart thumping. Yietha turned to Itorin, who had raised his brows and said one word.
“Salazsar.”
 
——
 
“It’s an engagement ring of Salazsar.”
Queen Oiena needed barely four minutes to figure out what it was. When she did, everyone gasped.
“Dead gods. What does it mean?”
King Itorin stood with the others, and his mind raced to the conclusion almost as fast as High Magus Telim. The rosy-cheeked [Mage] beamed around and tapped the side of his nose.
“It means, ladies and gentlemen, we’ve been duped. Yonder lady is no stranger. Don’t you see?”
He paused for dramatic effect.
“She’s a Wall Lady of Salazsar! A Drake! That Duke’s transformed her or given her an illusion ring and smuggled her in from her city! Small wonder she’s never been to Ailendamus! But is she currently married or is that a sign of something else?”
Mouths dropped open. Itorin, who’d come to the same conclusion, thought something was off, but…there was only one reasonable conclusion to come to, right?
A Ring of Salazsar did not just get given out randomly. The nobles murmured.
“I have to confirm this!”
“No, subtly, subtly—that sly dog, Rhisveri! How did he get to talking with her?”
“By [Message]? I wouldn’t put it past him to be sneaking out…he travels a lot!”
“Your Majesties, thank you for the wisdom! We may, ah, tease our mysterious guest with your permission and see if we can get confirmation!”
Regalius bowed to Oiena and Itorin, and the King raised a hand, smiling. Fakely.
“Within reason. She is a guest of my brother, Regalius. Go soft. He has a temper.”
“Oh, naturally, Your Majesty!”
They left. Only after they had gone did Oiena stop playing with Oesca’s curls and turn. Itorin shielded his mouth as real privacy spells activated. And the two exchanged a far sharper look than before.
“Oiena, how likely is it that’s some Drake?”
“Unlikely. Itorin, there’s one other way a Ring of Salazsar might have found its way onto a finger not belonging to a Drake. I’m surprised the others didn’t remember it, but I remembered it being scandalous. Don’t you?”
He did indeed. He remembered reading the spy report, then watching the other ball in Oteslia. In fact, a servant already had the recording. The two monarchs leaned over the scrying orb. Itorin and Oiena watched, then he heard swearing.
“That Gura-loving idiot. That’s her.”
The woman dancing with the Wall Lord in Oteslia was the exact same as the young woman in the garden. The only difference was the black hair. Itorin closed his eyes.
“—She’s a Drake.”
“She’s a Princess of Calanfer, not—”
Queen Oiena began to hiss at him, and they realized their daughter, Princess Oesca, was right there. Fortunately, she didn’t appear to have heard, having snuck a second pudding from the desserts table. Itorin spoke slowly and deliberately.
“That is a Drake Wall Lady that my brother has brought. And she is going to remain a Drake Wall Lady until she leaves.”
Anything else would be…highly problematic. What was Rhisveri thinking? How did he even know…?
Questions for later. Oiena nodded and grabbed Oesca and pinched one ear gently.
“Who’s stealing sweets past her bedtime?”
“But Mother, it’s a celebration for Dame Eclizza!”
Oesca protested, pouting and trying to equivocate as hard as she could. Itorin laughed as Oiena fixed her daughter with an attempt at a severe look; she’d been very good tonight. The two had to deal with their daughter, but Itorin was entirely relieved no one had caught on. Otherwise…dead gods. He hoped the night ended without more eyes on Eyon.
 
——
 
Five minutes after their meeting with Their Majesties, the conspirators of Rhisveri’s friends, Telim, and Grumpy re-convened.
Not in the garden, but in the Court of Masks. You see…there was nowhere else you couldn’t be spied on. Not even other [Spies] or [Mages] could infiltrate there.
There was a long silence as Regalius, disguised, sipped from his drink. Then a crow-mask coughed.
“This is Telim. Ah, so. Did anyone else second-guess my conclusion?”
“She was rather coordinated for someone without a tail. And she mentioned being at war with Ailendamus. We haven’t fought Drakes.”
A lion-mask spoke. A sun-mask, Yietha, murmured.
“And I happen to know of one other Ring of Salazsar that wasn’t on a Drake’s finger. I credit my obsession with the television. But that would be—”
Beyond scandalous. The nobles and Telim eyed each other. Regalius let out a slow breath.
“This is incredible. But highly dangerous! Small wonder Rhisveri led us on. I’m just relieved Their Majesties didn’t catch on. Even for the King’s brother, if this should come out—”
“Dead gods, what does it mean? We don’t have proof!”
“No, but I have eyes. I took one look at another recording and her, and, well—”
“Dead gods. No one can know!”
Everyone agreed, even Telim. This was beyond hilarious. They had crossed the event-horizon into actually serious consequences, but for the sake of Rhisveri—for the sake of love—
For the sake of the best gossiping they would have for generations in Ailendamus, the secret had to be kept. Regalius went around shaking hands. Then he strolled out of the Court of Masks, dying to get to know Miss Eyon.
Dead gods, the name. He’d found a piece of paper and written down her name. Some days, you really felt like a fool.
 
——
 
Seeing Wesle was such a wonderful thing. Lyonette was delighted, if dismayed, when she saw Kilkran and Emme. Because, of course, they might well blow her cover.
Thankfully, they were actors. Emme was the best. She didn’t even bat an eyelash when she saw Lyonette.
“Ah, a former client of ours. How are you, Miss…?”
“Eyonlett. Hello, Emme! It’s a delight to see the Players do so well! You’ve moved from Celum to Invrisil to this?”
The [Princess] gesticulated around at Ailendamus’ grand ball, which was a sight even for other Terandrian kingdoms.
It was possibly one of the largest ballrooms in the entire world. Top twenty, she was sure. Another looted ballroom, made like a whirlpool.
Colors on the outer edges of the ballroom bloomed in each tile, stars of gemstone-bright stone that swept inwards as they deepened, losing their brightness, towards a center until a spiral developed.
A blackness, pulling everything inwards until the central point of the room where a tiny point of bright marble waited. Admired from above, it was, perhaps, like a great eye or the annihilation of a world into a vortex.
But for the dancers, it was a purely selfless floor that drained itself of color so they would shine all the greater. Closer you came until you were dancing in a midnight field with enough traction to step firmly, and smooth enough to spin into the arms of a partner.
Few people were even staring at the floor. Emme herself gave it a passing glance and then smiled into her cup of wine with a reserve that came from experience.
“It is lovely, but it’s far from our first such event these days, Eyon. If anything, I’m just glad that most of our number are sick in Pheislant. It lets us remain a mysterious commodity longer.”
“Plus, Andel might get into a fight if anyone dares criticize his writing.”
Wesle chuckled. He had a [Courtier]’s poise, Lyonette noticed, and Kilkran looked like a [Lord] himself, dressed up in all that finery. Had he gained weight? He kept stroking his beard, which glistened with oils, and his melodious voice seemed even more golden.
“Agreed, agreed. I’m just upset that we barely got a mention. We’ve come all this way to Ailendamus—who was the kingdom we chose in the face of every other kingdom begging for our talents—and the focus is more on their own ceremonies, that [Knight], and Wistram Academy!”
…He thought it was a problem that the Players weren’t the biggest focus? Lyonette craned her head back to stare at one of Wistram Academy’s magical demonstrations. Wesle glanced at it too, then laughed.
“Oh, that. I almost forget about it there are so many posters and recordings everywhere we go. Wistram has been all over us, recording our plays—”
“The decent ones. And they’re not to sell them or any of our newer performances. We need exclusivity, but we did partner with the Ullsinoi Faction, oh, a month or two after we left Invrisil? Because of E—the [Innkeeper].”
Lyonette hadn’t even known about that. She smiled.
“This is marvellous, you all. How was First Landing?”
“Oh, grand!”
All the Players lit up about Izril’s largest city in the north. Kilkran gestured expansively.
“Each one of the Five Families was hosting us night after night! We were the talk of the city—we founded another theatre, of course, and there was a bevy of talent to draw from there. They still missed us when we left! You can’t compare second or third-stringers to our act, but they’ll have to be satisfied with that. We ran out of new plays to perform; we have six [Writers] working nonstop, you see, on new material. Galina helps us adapt the ones she knows, but bringing them up to standard takes time.”
“Plus, Terandria offered far more than First Landing at that point. Between that and all the theatres we’re opening, and the television broadcasting deals, I think it’ll be a far bigger year than the last. Once we blow through Ailendamus by storm, of course.”
Emme had a shine to her eyes that made Lyonette blink. She spoke like a top-level [Merchant], and well she might—Lyonette had to wonder how much money the Players were pulling in. Not as much as the inn, but that was purely by virtue of the box. Wesle leaned over to her.
“I was just saying that we’d forgotten about the inn, Emme. Old Temile still sends a cut from Liscor and Invrisil—maybe we should send some gold back? And a few of the second-stringers who aren’t performing well?”
“Terandrian talent, why not? If he can make Invrisil, Liscor, and Pallass even bigger…I wish you could see Jasi, Eyonlett. She’s got the same aplomb and poise as you do.”
“Really? I’d love to see her, though I’m only here for the night.”
Kilkran smoothed his beard, sighing.
“A shame. But it is good to see you, and if you are here later, we will be touring Ailendamus at least a few months. More than enough time to make an impression on the locals.”
He winked at a young noblewoman staring with ardent admiration at the three Players. Lyonette hesitated, then coughed.
“Oh my, I need to get a drink—”
“Of course! Waiter!”
Wesle snapped his fingers, and she took a cup, then glanced at Emme. The Dwarf woman was thoughtfully eying Lyonette.
“Nothing exciting will be happening tonight, I trust?”
“Nothing that should bother the Players’ business, Emme.”
“Good! Then do let us know if the inn needs a donation of sorts. For old time’s sake? We’ll have to do it covertly, but I have people in Invrisil…”
“We’re actually well set up in that regard. I, uh, Grev is doing well too! Or so I think. He’s always in Invrisil, and I know Temile checks on him.”
Wesle chuckled.
“Grev, that scamp. Jasi will be glad. They talk now and then, and we might bring him on tour now that we have an entire support staff; Emme?”
“Eh, imagining the trouble he could get up to, I’d hate to bother our people. But Eyon, you have to give me some notes on who here is the most important…? I noticed that Baron you were talking to. Not highly placed, but I’ve learned to look for men and women who have everyone’s ear.”
Lyonette gave a few notes to the two for a couple of minutes, but they were happily interrupted by a young woman who came over. The same noblewoman Kilkran had been chatting up.
“Actor Wesle? I hate to interrupt, but may I introduce myself? I am the biggest fan of yours.”
“I’m always delighted to meet a fan. Eyon, do excuse me?”
Wesle’s smile could have charmed the swords out of a Redfang’s hand. He almost blew the young woman away due to tongue-tiedness, but three of her friends urged her forwards, and she burst out.
“I was praying and praying for this—I knew it would work! I’m, um, a [Believer], you see—”
“A what?”
Lyonette turned as well as Emme, and Wesle blinked.
“I’ve never heard of that class before. New or native to Ailendamus?”
“No, haven’t you heard? It is new, but…it’s from the Book of Levels. It’s a class for those who can simply have faith.”
The noblewoman’s comments were putting every hair on Lyonette’s neck up. Another consequence of the [Palace of Fates]? Wesle was purely interested, and he offered her a bow and his arm.
“I would love it if you explained it to me, Miss. And introduced me to your beautiful friends! Eyon, apologies, we’ll catch up later.”
He winked at her as the young women giggled and talked over each other. Lyonette needed to use the restroom, so she apologized to Emme—the [Manager] waved at her, already talking to Sophridel, the half-Elf who seemed in awe of her as much as the other Players.
Dame Ushar murmured to Lyonette as the [Princess] strode towards the bathrooms, which had, of all things, magical plumbing and running water.
“Your Highness, Kilkran seems to be rather drunk and flirting with a number of eligible young women. And possibly ineligible women.”
“That girl was, well, my age. Even Wesle’s too old for her! How rich are the Players, and do you know how they’ve been touring? They seem to have taken to the lifestyle.”
That was all she wanted to say on it, but Lyonette hadn’t missed how much magic and money they were wearing. Dame Ushar nodded and added it to her list of things to investigate. Besides that, it was fine. Though Lyonette kept glancing at the young woman who had a class of faith. She wasn’t the only one, Lyonette realized. Now and then, she saw someone say something then put their hands together. Tentatively. But in a way she had only seen Pawn do…
Faith was spreading at last. But in what? The Grand Design itself? She shivered. Then she really did have to pee. All this wine went through you like, well, wine.
 
——
 
The ball was going well. Everyone was vastly entertained by the attractions, of which the Players of Celum were one; they were broadcasting one of their recorded plays, actually.
On…
The sky.
That wasn’t an exaggeration, either. There was no handy backdrop like the palace walls or even a cloud. Rather, there was a three-dimensional image of the Players of Celum performing on stage, like giants striding to and fro, declaiming Hamlet.
The detail was insane. It was not that it was so detailed you could make out the Players’ pores, but it had a sharpness to the visual quality that surpassed Earth’s pixel-generated images. It was as if you were viewing them from afar, which was how the [Magic Image] spell had been cast.
However, the scale! The sheer size of the magic was allowing everyone in the city to view the play from miles away, and cities neighboring the capital could see giant figures moving to and fro.
The sound quality, meanwhile, wasn’t horrendously loud, but at a volume that increased if you focused on the image until it was loud enough to feel like a play occurring, no more. And this was but one of the magical demonstrations on show to celebrate the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus. There had been [Knights] dueling each other in friendly bouts of martial superiority, lightworks, the feast of foods, a travelling menagerie…
It was Wistram’s magical showcase that was most controversial, however, because this wasn’t a homegrown demonstration of Ailendamus’ magic. This was the enemy, but it was also new technology, so the Academy of Mages had an unhappy audience listening to them.
“Grand illusion magics. Tier 5. It’s the sheer scope of it that makes it Tier 5 magic; you could get to that kind of quality with a Tier 4-capable caster, but not this. We are offering this kind of magic to the highest bidders along with the magical carriages and other premium services.”
High Mage Telim was one of the [Mages] advertising the new spells between bites of his meal. He did it well; his was the exact opposite of a hard sell to the nobility. It was clear Telim wanted to enjoy himself, so he had to be asked what the spells were. It was also just as clear from the unsettled expression of Ailendamus’ own mage corps that this was magic on par with their best work.
“Services, High Magus? Even to Ailendamus, who was attacked by the Archmage of Memories?”
An annoyed nobleman asked the pertinent question, and Telim offered him a resigned smile.
“I’d say politics, Lord Verkith—”
“Politics don’t bandage Ailendamus’ war-dead!”
Telim didn’t react to the dangerous crackle in the other man’s tone; instead, he took a longer drink of wine.
“Nor does it the Dawn Concordat’s. The Archmage of Memories acted as he willed. He considered it a moral matter, and clearly, he has offended the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. I believe his willingness to offer these services to Ailendamus is by way of an attempt at mending bridges.”
Everyone waited for more, but there wasn’t any. Telim produced a goat’s leg and began to take measured bites out of it. There was an unhappy murmur that rose, then died down as they thought about what that meant.
No apology. Every other Archmage of the modern era would have played that differently. It was inconceivable to think of even a foreign Archmage not making peaceful overtures and promising this was a one-off, an exception to the rule. But Archmage Eldavin was not going to do that.
It was also—pointed. A clear reminder to Ailendamus’ nobility about who had started this war, an indictment of their national pride.
In Kaaz or another kingdom, that would have drawn blood. Here? Well, it was calibrated to its audience, but it told several listeners that the Archmage of Memory intended to be a force that needed assuaging on his own merits. Wistram had always been that political obstacle that could be problematic if it took the other side, but it had seldom offered any real teeth. Archmage Eldavin was a bared sword, and you had to have confidence to make his statements.
One look at a giant Wesle striding across the stage and you had to wonder if this was subtlety or the blunt mace of tactlessness. Certainly, the [Mages] had come armed to impress.
“What other services does Wistram offer Ailendamus, High Magus? Illusions and transportations are not to be ignored, but Ailendamus’ [Mages] are second to none on the continent.”
Lady Paxere of House Shoel asked that question. She was wearing white to mark her parents’ deaths, but her voice was cool and poised. Telim smiled at her.
“Why, spells, Lady…Paxere, I believe? You noted the desalination ritual that Archmage Eldavin created and sold at a nominal fee, in the name of the public good? That wasn’t old magic; he invented it specifically to aid in the New Lands colonization effort. That is not the only magic the Archmage of Memories has pioneered. The magical armor that some of his people used in the war…”
“You’re selling enchanted armor?”
Paxere’s voice was flat, and Telim waggled a finger.
“Artisan work from Wistram along with the spells themselves—though you understand tutelage commands a high fee on its own. Even…spells of very powerful Tiers.”
“Beyond Tier 5 magic. You’re selling Tier 6 magic?”
Now, every noble in earshot was listening hard. Tier 6 magic…even their [Grand Magi] would be considered exceptional if they could cast more than two such spells, linked. And such spellcasters had studied and practiced magic for four decades at least to get to that level. Paxere, though, she didn’t blink.
As if she thought she were equal to that level of magic. Telim recalled Archmage Eldavin’s briefing on Ailendamus: he had marked House Shoel as having magic on par with the other Archmages. So Telim smiled at the young woman carefully, like she were an enemy in Wistram.
“If I may name one spell, noblefolk of Ailendamus—then get back to socializing? I’m not a particularly good salesman, and I’d rather not have the class. This is a premium service to be offered to nations with coffers deep enough to make it worth Wistram’s while. Not to be spread around. But should there be agreement, then, yes. Archmage Eldavin walked Wistram’s higher floors before they were closed. A [Mage] that pre-dates Archmage Zelkyr and Az’kerash will teach magic. Such as—[Restoration]. Or [Regeneration], even, if you have [Restoration], though that one requires a [Mage] above Level 50. Now, I believe that pudding has my name on it. Do excuse me. [Greater Invisibility].”
The uproar that followed Telim and the rush towards the strawberry pudding to ask him what he meant was enormous. Of course…Telim wasn’t at the pudding table. He was eating cupcakes instead.
Someone who didn’t have the same worry about this great magic as the mortal nobles walked over as Paxere stood there. But then—Lady Paterghost, a former Great Knight of Ailendamus and immortal suit of living armor, had seen that kind of magic before. If rarely. She was over a thousand years old and pretending to sip a fizzy drink.
In reality, it was the Greater Mimic in her armor, Nube—her companion—who ate. The living suit of armor spoke in the refined accent of Taimaguros, her homeland, to Paxere; she had been in the royal palace for 1,011 years and styled herself as practically royal by association. Haughty, prickly, and annoying—most of the time. Right now, she and Paxere were firmly on the same side after all of Ailendamus’ losses, and so she kept her voice low as she nodded at Telim.
“He appears slightly rattled. Should you be staring at him so openly?”
Her engraved helmet, which featured the blue and red symbols of Taima and Gura, the twin beasts the kingdom had been named after, turned, and she picked out Telim munching on cupcakes, despite his [Greater Invisibility] spell. But then, Nube was a Mimic; illusions were hard to use on their kind.
Paxere had penetrated the spell with her own spellcraft. The young Lucifen sipped from her cup, eyes never losing Telim.
“Wistram is showing it has a superior amount of magic. A message should be sent that it is not alone.”
“Hah. Fairly said. As House Shoel’s leader, it is your decision. Know I would question Visophecin to his face in the same way.”
Was that a note of support? Paxere nodded after a moment of private debate whether to snap back. Paterghost’s head rotated again.
“The banquet is passably fine. I have, of course, known better.”
“Of course.”
“I am reminded of the Celebration of Gura eight hundred years ago. Eight spontaneous marriages, two murders, and five duels to the death. That was merely among the nobility.”
Paxere snorted, though she didn’t doubt something of that nature had occurred.
“One wonders how Taimaguros has enough nobility, the way they carry on and feud.”
The suit of armor paused and her haughty voice became slightly more retiring.
“Ah, well…they are prolific in their affections as well as hatreds. And I think, ultimately, it is not the nobility who war as bloodily for Taima and Gura. That was a particularly incensed time in the Empire. When I last left, it was so much more…showy. No substance. Hardly any bloodfeuds of note.”
Paxere raised a brow. One did not catch Paterghost badmouthing her nation in any way, usually. But the immortals of Ailendamus still mourned the Lucifen. They still mourned Fithea, Dioname.
“Young Eclizza lives. Let us not speak of death. The banquet is going well. I came to inquire, Paxere—who is that young woman who seems to be the talk of the Court of Masks’ regulars? She is practically beset, and her [Knight] is wearing a rather…impressive set of armor.”
Another oddity; Paterghost acknowledged no armor as worthy of praise unless it was at least half as old as she was. Paxere glanced over and snorted.
“Oh, her. I shouldn’t say her true identity. It’s one of Rhisveri’s foibles. Again. What will we do if he leads Ailendamus into more madness?”
The elders were far more upset than she, but Paterghost merely paused, again, and Nube burbled in an approximation of her voice.
“Sad.”
The helmet nodded.
“Yes, Nube, sad. We allow it because what choice do we have, Paxere? Just as House Shoel’s heart should not break, our leader is weak in his own ways. So. Who is that?”
She bent her head, and Paxere murmured the answer, veiled by privacy spells. Paterghost’s head rose.
“Ah. Well.”
She took a longer sip from her drink.
“…That may not be the wisest course after all.”
Her head turned towards the young woman talking and even smiling from where she and a group of nobles were touring the ball. After a moment, Paterghost remarked softly.
“She seems to be enjoying herself.”
“Yes. Isn’t it odd?”
Another moment of silence as Paxere realized her read was not the same as the older immortal’s. Paterghost simply shook her head.
“Nobility to some extent, but royalty especially is lonely. They speak and act a world unto their own. Regardless of where it is, a fish loves to breathe water. Excuse me.”
She advanced towards the young woman in her straight-backed stride as Paxere raised her brows. But then, like many others, she focused on ‘Eyon’, or rather, Lyonette du Marquin, 6th Princess of Calanfer.
She was indeed smiling.
 
——
 
Lyonette kept catching herself and wondering what she was doing. Enjoying herself. But she couldn’t help it.
There was fresh food from home on offer everywhere, fashions and gossip from across Terandria, familiar accents and people who didn’t gawk at you for asking odd questions, and it was just—
Relaxed. For all she was in an enemy kingdom, this wasn’t a life-or-death struggle, so she tried to remember these were her foes, but in truth, she was melting. Melting away as stress left her, because even hiding her identity in Ailendamus was about a thousand levels less stressful than watching a Goblin King charging at her through a dissolving [Palace of Fates].
Of course, her audience, some of whom knew who she was, found her relaxed demeanor incredibly shocking. They would have put it down to brainlessness or complacency but for the fact that Lyonette was asking sharp questions.
“So Ailendamus is not sending a colonial effort to the New Lands, Baron Regalius? Pardon me if I laugh, but surely we may be honest? Whatever the diplomatic line is…even though Ailendamus was barred from the alliance at Calanfer, I am sure an effort was made.”
He tried not to smile too obviously as he took a sip from his cup.
“Ah, but I am the very voice of our diplomatic line, Miss Eyon. Besides, no ships of Ailendamus have gone anywhere near the New Lands. How would you otherwise claim we were planning on a colonization attempt?”
She rolled her eyes.
“Baron, if I were a gambling woman, I would check ship hulls to see if some are in fact rechristened vessels of Ailendamus. But I’m not. I do happen to keep an eye on trade, and it didn’t escape my notice that a rather large amount of gold was spent by [Merchants] in Izrilian harbors. You’re simply going overland from Zeres, from the northern ports, and so on. Also, do half-Elves not count? Because I’m sure Ailendamus’ half-Elves are part of the colony there, but I suppose that’s ‘unaffiliated’?”
Lyonette remembered that from when the inn had been buying and selling goods to hide all the gold it was laundering. More than one Ailendamus-based [Merchant] had bought up food like Prelons in bulk; rather odd for a nation that didn’t often want such goods.
Yietha murmured and offered a tray of sushi around.
“Oh my, well done. The dratted food shortages meant we had to sell as much food as we bought, though. We have enough silos of grain that we could outfit our expeditions amply, but we did buy up food. Drathian cuisine is on display here because we’re shorter on our own [Cooks]’ efforts. Kitchens running day and night to prepare for the trip, you know. I shudder to think of that food being wasted by Chests of Holding turning off.”
Lyonette selected a piece of eel on rice with some chopsticks.
“Drathian cooking! This is cosmopolitan. If they’re wise, I hope Ailendamus’ expeditioners not caught by the magic-drain simply leave their Chests of Holding at the border of the New Lands. Establish an outpost and keep the food there and let groups enter and exit. A relay system, but that’s simply off the top of my head.”
“Ah, you say that, miss, but have you been spying on our war rooms? You’ve distilled the basic plan our [Strategists] came up with after three days and nights of arguing!”
General Bathnir teased Lyonette, and a chuckle went around the room. At this point, Kilkran broke in with a too-hearty laugh.
“Spies? No one here’s a spy, General Bathnir. No indeed—er—though we [Actors] are good at changing our identities. So if there was a spy, it would be us. Not that we are spying, that is!”
He was a bit too drunk and laughed far too hard at his attempt at a joke. Lyonette didn’t even let her face change as Wesle covertly elbowed Kilkran. Actor he might be, but the stage clearly didn’t work the same as real life—for some. Wesle was a perfect image of a resigned coworker trying to keep a drunkard from running his mouth. He turned to Bathnir, apologetically indicating Kilkran with a head-nod, then smiled.
“I was merely a [Guardsman], but I have some notion of northern Izrilian politics, Lord Bathnir. Spies are a valid concern in the New Lands, as are [Assassins]. I hope Ailendamus has taken countermeasures?”
“I thought the Assassin’s Guild was dead.”
Someone commented, and Wesle exhaled.
“Dead? No. Hurt, most definitely, but that’s, again, north Izril. The Drakes have their own version of an Assassin’s Guild, or so I’m led to believe. We had one of them enter Celum once; a bloody murder that was never solved.”
“Oh my. One would think Drakes were ill-suited to the class. My image of them is haughty, loud-mouthed, greedy—and entirely stubborn.”
Lyonette and Wesle exchanged a look before trying to assure one of the noblewomen that this was a broad generalization that didn’t do justice to an entire species. Then Regalius broke in as Telim appeared, twinkle in his eye.
“My, you seem so well informed about Drakes, Miss Eyon.”
“As much as other species, Lord Regalius. I confess, I had hoped to meet some half-Elves from your amazing forests as well. Is it true they’re forming traditional half-Elven villages? I can’t imagine how you handled the scandal amongst the other communities.”
The [Baron of Ceremonies] burst out laughing and tipped his glass to her again.
“What a fine riposte! And such an insightful question.”
Half the listeners were just confused.
“Why would traditional half-Elven villages be controversial within the species, Baron Regalius? Aside from the ah, issue of their presence which I personally don’t find meritful—I had no notion other half-Elves resented the practice.”
He turned to Lyonette, and she explained with an easy smile.
“Influence. And, I daresay, jealousy. Traditional half-Elven villages, the truly timeless ones, are often an inconvenience on other communities. They’re far too insular and require safeguarding to maintain their states. Forming a number of them in Ailendamus would give the half-Elves here so much prestige and influence it might pull more of their people into the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. So, one hears, you would get the worst of infighting amongst half-Elves.”
“Tossing roaches in the fields to ruin the lifestyle?”
“That—and half-Elves visiting and claiming the village isn’t ‘predictable’ enough. Which means you have to have more visitors, and before you know it—”
“Actually, our half-Elves benefited from the late Magistrate Fithea’s influence. There was some unpleasantness, but they began growing glass trees. It’s been sixty years of trading different kinds of bonsai between several notable half-Elven villages. A ‘new’ project that has dozens of them doing it, so I gather.”
Lyonette broke off her explanation and turned to Regalius, purely amazed. What? She hadn’t heard of that.
“Glass trees?”
Then they were calling to show her some plantlife unlike any she’d ever known. And she just enjoyed it. Being among witty, informed people…Lyonette felt someone tap her shoulder and turned.
“Miss Eyon, a message for you.”
It was Ushar! Lyonette had to break away from the gathering for a moment; she saw the Thronebearer activate privacy spells and angle herself to block lipreaders. In doing so, she stepped away from a rather tall [Knight] who seemed intent on her.
Lyonette whispered.
“Who’s your friend, Rusha?”
“A former Great Knight of Ailendamus, Miss Eyon. A Lady Paterghost who’s rather taken with my armor.”
The tension in Ushar’s voice was minimal; Lyonette could just tell how much strain the Thronebearer was under. Lyonette felt guilty before Ushar murmured.
“—She recognizes its value. That means something.”
“Yes, I imagine so.”
The two traded a look before Ushar proffered something to Lyonette. A [Message] scroll.
“I established contact back home.”
“Oh!”
Lyonette tried to act casual as she opened the scroll. Ushar handed her a quill, and she saw a name.
 
Mrsha: Hey, Mother. You’re on television, you know.
 
Lyonette almost dropped the scroll, then wrote back hurriedly.
 
Lyonette: Oh no. Do they know?
Mrsha: Nah. It was really hard to find the channel. It’s a Terandrian-only broadcast, and you only appear in a few seconds in big shots of the ball. It’s very pretty. I like the super-chandelier with the multiple light spells rotating around. It’s like the solar system! The showcase is boring. It’s all about Wistram’s magic. And Emme was on television!
Lyonette: The Players are here. Ushar told you I’m fine…?
Mrsha: Yep. We got it since Duke Smellyface left a letter. Ilvriss was the one who was all upset. He wanted to go rescue you. Heh.
Lyonette: Oh dear. Did someone explain properly? Dalimont? Is he—
Mrsha: We dealt with it.
Lyonette: You’re sure you did, sweetie? Ushar could get me a speaking stone if—
Mrsha: I didn’t do a thing. I got Nerul to talk to Ilvriss after Dalimont talked to him. Problem solved.
Lyonette: That’s a deft solution!
Mrsha: I know.
Lyonette: I’ll be back within the hour. Tell Ilvriss that, please, and rest assured, I’m quite safe. No one’s even caught on to my identity. I think they believe I’m a Drake.
Mrsha: Don’t come back—
Lyonette: Excuse me?
Mrsha: —right away. You look like you’re having fun, Mother. We’ll be fine. Go have fun. Now, if you’ll excuse me, we’re playing cards, and I have six trump cards in my hand. Have fun!
 
Then she stopped writing, and Lyonette stood there, surprised. She blinked down at the [Message] scroll and realized that Mrsha wasn’t saying anything that was wrong, it was just—backwards.
She was the one being told not to worry and have fun. And Mrsha was gambling?
Again, all things considered, what a fine thing to teach a girl. Lyonette just felt a pang that Mrsha was thinking of her. She turned, almost wanting to go back just because Mrsha had said that, when she saw Ushar trying to fend off Paterghost outside the privacy bubble. Lyonette exited the spell and heard the energetic old woman talking.
At least, she thought it was a woman—the [Knight] walked around with visor closed, like some of the Thirsting Veil did, though her armor was a grey metal elegantly patterned with blue and red. Quite beautiful; more suited to decorative armor than anything else. Her voice was purely old woman, though, haughty and refined and from Taimaguros if Lyonette was a judge.
“—splendid armor, young woman. Dragonchallenger Mk. VII if I am a judge, one of the rarest runs of armor of that pattern to be found in Terandria today! You may note, here, how the forging ran too cold and had to be flame-spell welded? A flaw of the forges back then.”
She was trying to show Ushar a part of the breastplate on the inner section, and Ushar was clearly loath to let anyone touch Queen Marquin’s armor or have anyone find out exactly whose it was.
“An honor, Great Knight Paterghost. Truly, but I was merely given this armor, and I cannot remove it—”
She tried to pull away, but Paterghost seized one arm—gently, Lyonette thought. But Ushar couldn’t tug away, which suggested how strong the old Great Knight was. Yet Paterghost’s voice wasn’t nattering. It was, if anything, somewhat desperate.
“One understands, one understands. Armor is made for a purpose. To guard and defend. What higher honor can there be? Yet, young woman…this armor is old. Older than…older than I can name and still be functional. Here. Here…was a recent slice. Closed by a [Repair] spell from a scroll, perchance? Even today?”
She traced a line on the armor that appeared normal, but it was right where Ushar had stabbed Marquin’s armor by accident. Lyonette raised her brows but let Ushar answer.
“I, ah, yes. How perceptive, Great Knight. Merely a field repair—”
“Please, do no more of the kind. The armor will be destroyed in six more castings of the like. It is too old, Dame Knight. Too old. I think, if it must be used to defend life and limb…if it must…let it. But the magic can no longer repair it. And I think no artisan of steel under Level 50 would have a chance either.”
There was such a pained note in Paterghost’s voice as she gently touched the armor. Ushar hesitated, and her eyes swung to Lyonette.
“No [Repair] spells? But why, Dame Paterghost?”
A long sigh exited Paterghost’s helmet.
“The metal is too old. Simply that, Dame Rusha. You have heard of flesh that refuses to be healed after it is scarred or healed too many times? The same with metal. This armor is beautiful. Ancient. It was made by no master; it was mass-produced in fires that were too cold to forge it beautifully.”
It’s Marquin’s armor! Don’t talk of it like that! Lyonette wanted to object, but Paterghost’s helm swung towards her, and her voice grew soft.
“That is not to denigrate it one iota. If anything, it makes the armor all the more beautiful. I…my armor was made by artisans to be worn and admired. This was forged in desperation, under dark skies. Mk. VII Dragonchallenger armor, forged by desperate smiths during the midst of the Creler Wars. Had I a week, I could even locate the very vein of iron mined by desperate miners in Silvaria, carted up to forges where it was hammered out for anyone willing to swing a blade in defense of the land. This is beautiful armor, Dame Knight. Whether it must be—used—or preserved, I only wish it to be honored to the last.”
She was so passionate about the armor that even Lyonette was left embarrassed and speechless. Ushar was the one bowing her head, voice low.
“I swear—I will swear to you that this armor will be preserved, Lady Paterghost. It was simply the only armor at hand. I-I had some notion of the value of it, but after this moment, I will preserve it. No [Repair] spells, you said?”
“None. [Stasis] is to be used if possible. That will give it…a hundred years, perhaps, but it has already been in something of the like. Books, armor, everything degrades in all but the most perfect time-stop spells. A hundred years is a chance. A chance for the armor to—to be appreciated. Short of that, you must bring it to a master [Smith] and hope one can restore it. Ah! A bath of iron sands might well work. The metal may take on some of the strength of the ore, you see…”
Ushar was taking notes as Paterghost went on. Was she the Great Knight of Armor or something? Lyonette herself was assuring Paterghost that the armor would be taken care of as it deserved. Ushar was bowing her head.
“I am ashamed, Great Knight. I am—”
“No, no. Armor must be worn. It should be used. I am merely passionate about…very good. Very good.”
The Great Knight seemed emotional; Lyonette was about to introduce herself properly when someone strode over and took the knight’s shoulder.
“Paterghost! Don’t natter at our guests! Great Knight Paterghost, meet Eyon. And her, uh, woman, Rusha. She’s not being obstreperous, is she, Eyon?”
Rhisveri looked flustered as he dashed over, and Paterghost turned to him, visibly offended. Lyonette halted him.
“She has been nothing but informative about Rusha’s armor, Rhisveri. You two are…friends?”
Oh, that explained a lot. Rhisveri caught himself and murmured.
“Paterghost, polite to anyone? I, uh, well! Yes! I knew Paterghost way back. She and F…”
He swallowed.
“—Magistrate Fithea knew each other. In fact, she was one of the first people I recruited.”
“Recruited?”
“From Taimaguros.”
Now, Paterghost was studying Rhisveri, and her head nodded. A bit more of her snappish tone returned, and she swept a rather flowery bow.
“Yes, I am of Taimaguros. A pleasure, Miss Eyon. The Duke rescued me from a small bind when I was a young woman. It has been my pleasure to serve and educate Ailendamus’ younger [Knights]. The era of my fighting in its defense has passed, though I retain a noble title from my time as a Great Knight.”
“An honor twice over, Lady Paterghost! Then are you from Taima or Gura?”
It was the question you asked anyone from Taimaguros if you didn’t want to be kicked for making a mistake. To Lyonette’s surprise, Paterghost hesitated.
“I would say I have spent more time in the service of Taima than Gura. But I was an—an exception who served the crown that ruled.”
Which would favor Taima over Gura as their descendants had taken the throne more than not, but only just. Who was she? Rhisveri seemed displeased by all this. He turned to Lyonette and folded his arms.
“You’re certainly entertaining my peers well enough. But you left me behind to discuss the New Lands! You’re my date!”
Lyonette rolled her eyes, and Paterghost made a honking sound behind her helmet.
“That charade will never bear fruit, Rhisveri.”
“No, she is! Just—demonstrate it more, would you? Do more date-like things!”
“Should I simper and hang off your arm, Rhisveri? Or confess my love for you in front of all and sundry?”
Lyonette gave him a cool gaze, and Rhisveri scratched at his chin, taking the question at face value.
“I’d rather not give off the impression you were some empty-headed trollop, thank you. Just…something in tandem! Less wandering away!”
He tried to tow her back to Regalius and the others, and he was annoyingly strong. Damn Wyrms and Dragons. Paterghost seemed to notice Lyonette’s distress and strode after Rhisveri.
“Leave the young lady alone, Rhisveri. ‘Tis not a shame to be alone in romance or relationship. Far more embarrassing would be to drag the unwilling into a farce.”
“Paterghost! Miss Eyon agreed to be my date.”
“Hah. A jest worthy of thrones.”
Her head swung back to Lyonette as they rejoined the social circles, and Lyonette hesitated, but only for a moment. When Rhisveri’s face fell, she couldn’t help but speak in a carrying tone.
“I know it may be hard to believe if you know him at his worst, but the good Duke did defend me and my loved ones, Lady Paterghost. This isn’t the first social engagement we’ve had together.”
Rhisveri’s friends, which now included Queen Oiena herself, all turned and gave the Duke a searching eye. Oiena cleared her throat.
“Oh my. I had no notion my brother-in-law was so gallant, Miss Eyon. What, pray, has he done in your company before this? Not to imply he begged you on hand and knee to join him tonight, but it is a rumor.”
There was merry laughter, and Rhisveri flushed again—he and Oiena clearly didn’t like each other. However, it was a gentle enough ribbing, and Lyonette once again made a choice that was easier than she’d thought. She gave Oiena a genuine smile.
“I’m quite familiar with Rhisveri’s worst instincts, Your Majesty. But when the moment appeared, he refused to back down in defense of what he considered righteous. That passes quite a lot of ill waters in my books. Well, enough to indeed say we’re more than mere acquaintances.”
A rather thoughtful silence followed her remarks as every eye swung towards Rhisveri, then Regalius applauded.
“And that is why he has the hallmarks of what we love in our Kingdom of Glass and Glory! A prickly man, difficult as a Tier 6 spell to love—but if I doubted those were his true colors, I wouldn’t call him a friend.”
“Hear, hear!”
Grand Magus Detrida lifted her cup, and the others joined in. Rhisveri blushed bright red and scowled even harder.
“You don’t need to lie.”
He muttered to Lyonette. Her response was to raise her brows and glance at Queen Oiena. Then the [Queen] of Ailendamus gave over with a true laugh. She seemed amazed by it and turned to address Rhisveri and Lyonette.
“Oh my. I do believe you were a hero, then, Rhisveri. I am endlessly curious. What social engagements have you two partaken of, Eyon? And it must be ‘Oiena’, since I am liking you.”
Lyonette curtseyed deeply and responded fast and quick.
“I would be nervous to say it in front of anyone but a daughter of Gura, Oiena. But, ah, um, gambling?”
This time, she knew she’d get a smile before she heard Oiena laugh.
“No! You gamble, Miss Eyon?”
“Like a damn Demon.”
Rhisveri muttered sourly, clearly remembering the famed night when she had played with the monarchy. Lyonette’s own smile was coy.
“It is somewhat entertaining.”
“I’m sure I saw a table—I always love watching the dice roll, if nothing else. Follow me!”
Nothing would do but for Oiena to take Lyonette over to a table. Normally, the monarchy shouldn’t be too interested in vices like gambling, but Taimaguros, and especially Gura, was known for having gambling houses that even the rich and powerful went to.
Lyonette’s experience in The Wandering Inn meant that all the stakes in the world would just bounce off her; she’d gambled for hundreds of thousands of gold pieces, and it had desensitized her. However, she was reminded of her Skill.
[The Gambler’s Dice].
She had never used it, because, well, you didn’t get a chance to literally gamble that often, especially in her inn. She stood next to Oiena as the [Queen] showed her a variant of Lucky Dice that she’d imported from Taimaguros; the simplest version was trying to get all 6s without getting snake eyes. More extensive versions added more dice.
“I can’t imagine my brother-in-law was good at gambling.”
She whispered to Lyonette, and the [Princess] hid a smile.
“He may have lost a small sum.”
“Oh my. He didn’t bet too much, did he?”
For a moment, Oiena wore the concern of a monarch, worried that Rhisveri had put himself in debt to a foreign power. Lyonette thought of Rhisveri gambling Ailendamus’ royal treasury, and her lie was the smoothest that night.
“Nothing he didn’t own. However, I daresay he walked away at the end of the night with more than he lost.”
She was thinking of the gold she’d lent him, but Queen Oiena took a different answer from the way she scrutinized Lyonette. One the [Princess] missed in a rare show of innocence. Ushar did not miss what Lyonette had implied and was sweating harder underneath her helm. She sidled back from Oiena’s sharp [Bodyguards] and got the worst message that night. She’d rather enjoyed seeing her [Princess] in action—until another [Message] spell buzzed.
 
Smoking: What is going on? Report this moment. You are on live television.
Knight U: Unable to brief at this moment. Standby.
Smoking: Pull her out of there this instant and explain why her net worth has jumped by a factor of at least one national treasure!
Knight U: I am wearing said treasure. Please stand by. They might notice the [Messages].
 
She dared not look any further. Instead, Ushar locked onto Oiena and Lyonette chatting convivially, ignoring the buzzing of her [Message] scroll. The [Queen] was laughing at something Lyonette had asked.
“A gambling Skill? Oh, no, one would never admit to using it. In other games, it may be genteel, such as chess, but the entire point of gambling is the illusion of luck. Someone with a luck-Skill would be banned from any game on using it.”
“Ah, so it’s all about using it in secret. Thank you, Your Majesty.”
Oiena fixed Lyonette with a kindly eye and shook her head.
“In fact, most gamblers would never use a luck-based Skill in gambling unless they were in need of money, Miss Eyon. Many I know consider the game itself to be a passion, and Skills dilute the joy and horror of it. Your Skill should be used on all the other gambles of life.”
Lyonette’s eyes brightened, but then she wavered.
“But that is even more horrific. I can name a few gambles where I could have used such a Skill—the idea of wagering even more on that is beyond my courage.”
Oiena once again gazed at Lyonette with frank interest. She tapped her lips a few times.
“Well, it is the mark of a true gambler to know when it is worth betting at all. You are remarkably poised for your age, Miss Eyon. I do confess, my first thought on seeing you with Rhisveri was that he was far too old for you!”
Lyonette whispered back as Rhisveri glanced up from the board where he was betting with Regalius, frowning in suspicion.
“This is more of courtesy than anything else, Oiena. But please, I did truly wish to save his reputation! I owed him that, inconvenient as it may have been to have forty minutes to prepare.”
Oiena blanched.
“Forty—I should hit him with a vase! He didn’t! That fool—well.”
She sighed, somewhat perplexed.
“That you were so gracious to him speaks better of the man than I thought. Now, I should not keep you and our gamblers on your toes. It’s considered bad luck to have a sitting monarch watching the dice roll.”
She swept forwards to place a bet, and Lyonette exhaled when she lost, laughed, and paid her dues before returning to the high table. She whispered to Ushar.
“She’s so personable.”
“She is from Taimaguros, Miss Eyon. Friendly as a [Drunkard] until you say the wrong thing, then as bad as a Kaazian.”
Lyonette half-smiled, but she gazed after Oiena in dismay.
“I wish this dratted kingdom were worse in some way. It would make it so much easier.”
She made the unguarded comment out loud, and someone chuckled.
“They’re all charming in some way. Even Noelictus and the famous Court of Dusks has something to love—though that’s the easiest one to run screaming from.”
Lyonette jumped, and Magus Telim held out a hand.
“Do pardon me. High Magus Telim, Wistram, Terras faction and all that. May I make your acquaintance, Miss Eyon? I confess I rather am desperate to do so. I fought for the honor.”
Ushar saw a pile of people cursing behind him; it seemed like they’d all tripped over something, possibly a spell. Lyonette hesitated, on-guard, but then blinked.
“Magus Telim? I think I know that name! Aren’t you…the inventor of the Adventurer Quest games?”
“The Adventure Rooms. Yes, I had some part in it, though it was a collaborative effort with the Ullsinoi faction.”
Telim was pleased by Lyonette’s recollection. He bowed over her hand and nodded.
“It’s quite lucrative and moved me up in Wistram’s little power circles, though attaching myself to the Terras faction when it was starting out did even more wonders. Now I’m actually someone of import in the academy. Dreadful. I used to have nightmares about it, but here we are.”
He pulled a face, and Lyonette laughed.
“Well, how can I help you, Magus Telim? I’m hardly so interesting as to be sought by such a famous person as yourself! Unless the Duke confers that much attention?”
Telim studied Rhisveri, then shook his head. He met Lyonette’s eyes cheerfully as Ushar sensed a subtle illusion spell move around them. She signalled Lyonette, but hardly needed to.
“No, Miss Lyonette. I rather fancy a number of nobles themselves would greatly desire to meet someone connected with the famous inn. Myself? This is as close as I’ll get to meeting the [Innkeeper] I’ve heard so much about, and safer, too. Do forgive me if I seem desperate, but you have a charmed life of your own.”
Lyonette froze up, and her head swung to Ushar, but Telim flicked his fingers.
“My best illusion spells. I don’t think even their finest [Mages] can get through that easily. It defeated Eldavin twice before he cracked it. I don’t intend on sharing your identity, Princess Marquin.”
“You…you don’t intend to place me in danger, Magus Telim? May I ask what you want?”
Lyonette was on-guard instantly, but Telim just raised his brows.
“To meet you, as I said. On my word—I’d offer a [Detect Truth] spell, but they’re useless, I’m told. I’d hate to make your inn—or the Ullsinoi Faction—my enemy.”
Lyonette stared at Telim, then her face cleared, and she smiled so convincingly Ushar almost applauded. Telim chuckled.
“You needn’t do that. The spell is comprehensive.”
The [Princess] chuckled, and her smile never wavered. She studied Telim up and down, and she didn’t visibly change in demeanor, but there was something even more confident and authoritative in how she responded.
Not the act of it like Wesle had; the confidence that came from being the hammer and anvil and watching all between break in front of her. The same expression Erin Solstice could wear. And the same quicksilver strike that took even Telim off-guard.
“I’m not worried. You bely your competence, High Magus Telim. The Archmage of Memories acknowledges it too, far worse for you. I imagine social gatherings like these will be the most pleasant of things he subjects you to. Soon, you’ll be placed into more dangerous gatherings. Or perhaps war. Defense of someone who must be saved, if nothing else. Capable men are always used in such ways.”
Telim’s face fell as he took a hefty bite of a cupcake.
“Dead gods, you say the most horrific things, Princess Marquin. Not even a question about how I elegantly sussed out your identity?”
She shrugged.
“I imagine it wasn’t the hardest, sadly. For all I know, you have a Tier 6 spell that identified me purely based on magical talent. If you know more spells than that, you will be a [Mage] feared and marked across the world.”
He rubbed at his huge beard furiously.
“Incredible. There’s that Calanferian sharpness I’ve heard about; I’ve never been put off my feed faster. Have I offended you that much, Your Highness? I do apologize if so! I am not threatening your inn!”
“Magus Telim, the Archmage of Memories was at the battle at sea when my [Innkeeper] was fighting. You, respectfully, are either already on the list or not on the board. I’m merely pointing out the facts you may not have considered.”
Her sweet smile unsettled Telim, but he quirked an eyebrow at her.
“Ah. I’m being manipulated into…help me out, here?”
She took his arm.
“You could live a life of excitement, fascinating vistas, poisoned cake, and more, Magus Telim, or sit in an inn all day. The entire kitchen has a [Field of Preservation] on it. The record for a dish reaching the table after ordering is 2.1 seconds. Well, Asgra threw a pizza once, but that doesn’t count. Imagine it. A dreadful life where you can only sit, eat your fill, watch the latest incidents occurring in the center of it all, and cast magic when needed.”
He began beaming halfway through her description of the inn.
“My dear, that is the best recruitment pitch I’ve heard in the last decade! But what about the part where the inn explodes with Goblin Kings?”
Her eyes twinkled.
“You want to level, Magus Telim? You’ll reach Level 50 in our inn.”
“I’ll reach Wistram’s upper floors and Level 50 following Eldavin. Frankly, I’ll probably be safer eating poisoned cupcakes!”
He shot back, but he was fascinated by her. Lyonette’s eyes gleamed, and Telim followed her lips, forgetting to study her body language, drawn in by that charm.
Ushar, admiring Lyonette, was more resistant, but even she just listened with a pleasure that was her reward for this stressful night.
Lyonette didn’t have that two years ago. The [Princess] laughed at Telim like he was a silly man and gave him the look she’d given Captain Todi, Elia Arcsinger, and so many.
“You’ll stay when the Goblin King charges, Magus Telim—or be the first to run and save my daughters’ lives and many others. Either way, you’ll know the moment mattered far more than throwing spells down on armies or people you’ll never see. I’d put the biggest monster in The Wandering Inn against any [Mage] in Wistram. If souls have sins and weight, then they will always balance in our favor. Would you rather be the [High Mage] of a new era of magic or the magus who was there when the world changed and made his choice?”
High Magus Telim gazed at Lyonette. Then he blinked out of existence, and the illusion spell folded up.
“Teleportation!”
One of Queen Oiena’s [Bodyguards] spun and pointed as Telim appeared behind the gambling tables. He raised his hands as they surrounded him.
“I’m terribly, terribly sorry—do forgive me. It won’t happen again—ah, Miss Eyon. I do apologize.”
He strode back over and bowed to her.
“I merely felt like I had to get away. You are a terrifying woman, and I reject you!”
He made an ‘x’ with his arms, sounding merry, but only half-kidding.
“Please, allow me to enjoy my dinner and sterling conversation without putting me in fear for my life. Or soul!”
He bowed again, voice pleading. Lyonette laughed and took his arm as Rhisveri turned again.
“I’ll just have to charm you first, Magus Telim. Very well—you must tell me about the famous breakout with the King of Destruction’s agent and the Archmage of Chandrar! I heard a bit of what happened from a certain [Knight] who was there, but I am dying to know the rest.”
“Oh, safer ground! If I do that, what if I asked you about—wait, I have a list—Magus Grimalkin would be the top. Has the good Drake found a certain partner or is the magical gossip circle miscasting again? Because if so, the scandal and good man!”
Lyonette actually giggled. They began talking animatedly, and Ushar observed Telim’s eyes lighting up as they exchanged gossip. And—visibly—pulling back from Lyonette with genuine alarm.
She was so happy and capable, she was almost glowing in Ushar’s eyes. Almost—
 
——
 
“Radiant.”
That was Queen Oiena’s comment when she rejoined Itorin at the high table. The [King] gazed at her.
“The [Princess] struck you that well? I enjoyed how skilled she was at dissembling, but truly?”
Queen Oiena drank deeply from a glass of purified water, seeming troubled herself.
“She has backbone, Itorin. And conviction! She didn’t even blink at me. I wasn’t throwing my aura at her, but she treated me with perfect respect and didn’t hesitate to speak to me like an equal. She’s addressed foreign monarchs before.”
“Hardly surprising for Calanfer’s own.”
He wanted to down-talk the [Princess], who was a headache in his books, but Oiena shifted.
“I’ve met some of Calanfer’s [Princesses]—and one of their [Princes]—and she outstrips the lot of them, Itorin. Go over and see. Just go over!”
He resisted the urge to do that because it was too obvious and because the Players of Celum had drawn a huge crowd around them. More popular than the [King] themselves, and half as haughty. Itorin checked some notes his [Spymaster] had gotten him.
“Well, this is out of date. She’s supposed to say ‘peon’ and be haughty and condescending. Also, Level 5. I heard her talking about the New Lands. She had solid ideas, and I believe she came up with them on the spot!”
The two traded a look of exasperation and amusement, then Queen Oiena poured herself another glass.
“Do you think Rhisveri actually fell for her? Or is this some ploy of his?”
Seducing a foreign [Princess] sounded out of character for the Wyrm, but Itorin didn’t know. The idea of someone attracting his genuine friendship was implausible too. Then again, Ryoka Griffin was also tied to the inn.
“Hard to say. Let’s just make sure no one knows who she is. I have concerns about Magus Telim.”
Oiena nodded. He was acting suspiciously, which might mean the other nobles could catch on. They just had to put out some rumors with their people…they were arranging matters when another problem appeared.
“Father, I’ve returned. I apologize for the, ah, incident. May I have your permission to challenge Duke Rhisveri’s date to a public sparring match?”
Princess Ozena had reappeared after her incident with the glasses, and she was ready for war. She had a longsword at her side and a tunic and britches on. Itorin glanced at her and had a moment of telepathy with his wife.
“(She has no idea, and she will be a problem.)”
“(Yes, and she might lose, which would be worse! You think of something, Itorin!)”
Lose? His brows wrinkled, then he glanced at Lyonette and thought of the inn’s reputation. Hadn’t she killed some kind of Gnollish Demon with a sword? He frowned, drummed his fingers on the table, and thought back.
“(I have just the thing. Follow my lead.)”
Of their many Skills, [Parental Telepathy] was a low-level one that had many benefits. Itorin smiled at Ozena and lifted a hand as she glared at ‘Eyon’.
“My word, she’s done it! Ozena, fastest out of all the children. Not that Oesca is expected to keep up.”
He indicated his daughter, who was yawning given the late hour. Little Oesca blinked at him, confused, and Oiena just raised one eyebrow at him in amusement before smiling at Ozena.
“Oh, well done, Ozena!”
“I—er, what did I do, Father?”
Princess Ozena faltered as King Itorin nodded at the [Princess].
“Well, you clearly noticed who Miss Eyon was, correct, Ozena?”
The [Battle Princess] visibly hesitated this time, and he pretended to notice that and frowned. Ozena glanced at Eyon.
“Rhisveri’s date? I—I noticed she had a powerful aura when I, um, bumped her. And she has a certain walk that makes me think she can use a sword. I just wished to challenge her to a duel. Aura or sword—”
It wasn’t out of the question in Ailendamus’ courts, even between women, but Itorin’s frown was disapproving.
“Ozena, that’s unbefitting of you.”
“But she’s—!”
Ozena bit her lip.
“She’s more capable than whomever she’s pretending to be, Father!”
Now, he wore an innocent expression of pure confusion.
“Well…exactly. Which is why you came to me. Because you figured it out, didn’t you?”
He traded a look with Oiena, and she sighed.
“Itorin…now you’ve done it.”
Ozena and Oesca were turning to peer at their parents, and Ozena spluttered.
“Find out who she is?”
King Itorin pinched the bridge of his nose and groaned as if he were actually upset. He heaved a huge sigh.
“My fat mouth and I are too easy company. Well, I’ve done it now. Not a word to Votrin or Ivenius or Malenth, you two! This was meant to be a test. I thought you had passed, Ozena. The pieces were there. It’s basic statecraft—the obviously dyed black hair? That aura? I was sure you had it when you shoved her with your aura, though it was rather bald-faced of you…”
“Itorin, don’t belabor it. Perhaps it wasn’t that simple.”
Oiena scolded Itorin with a smile, because she’d caught onto his ploy now. Oesca burst out.
“Who is she, Mother, Father? She knew Ryoka!”
Itorin gave his younger daughter a slow nod.
“Well, she would. Rhisveri brought her into the ball for his own reasons, and of course, it’s a secret sealed by the crown. Neither of you are to repeat her identity in Ailendamus’ name. Is that clear? Ozena…no, thank the heavens you asked before dueling her. The problems that would cause!”
The [Battle Princess] was visibly wilting as he fanned at his face. She gave Eyon a second look.
“I—I apologize, Father. I did notice something was off about her, come to that! But I didn’t realize it was a test! I, uh—not a word. Not at all.”
“She’s quite dangerous, if not in your exact ways, Ozena. I hoped you two would be friends. It is such a rare opportunity…”
Oiena put in, clearly enjoying teasing her daughter. Itorin worried they were going too far, but Ozena did have to learn to watch herself and judge her foes. The [Princess] nodded several times, then licked her lips.
“Of course. I’ll—yes. I’m sorry, Mother. Father. But, um. Who is…?”
Itorin pretended not to hear. He leaned over to Oiena.
“I hope Ivenius figures it out. I know he’s just in his [Squire] training, but he has a shot. Surely everyone saw the ring? But then again, her Skill hides it well. I am glad that if they are investigating, no one is asking the nobility and causing a stir.”
She nodded gravely. Ozena opened her mouth and then hesitated. She squinted at Eyon, and Oesca slipped from the table.
“Father, Mother, I don’t want to sleep anymore! May I go into the ball?”
“For an hour longer, Oesca. Very well. Ozena, did you need something?”
The [Battle Princess] was suddenly very busy. She took her younger sister by the hand, and they raced out of earshot. Itorin watched out of the corner of his eye, then someone whispered to him.
“Your Majesty, Princess Ozena has contacted her siblings via her private magical spell.”
“Excellent.”
He sat back. At this moment, he was sure his two daughters would be finding their siblings and putting them onto the ‘test’, which none of them had been aware of.
“That should keep them busy and from actually confronting her. So long as they think we masterminded this.”
Otherwise, one of them raising a hue and cry might cause that diplomatic incident he didn’t need. It was all very well to be at war, but kidnapping a [Princess]…a bad look. Especially given where she should be!
“I had no idea Rhisveri was that powerful a spellcaster, Itorin. To magic her from that inn…”
Oiena had certainly noticed that. Itorin avoided her sharp eye.
“Rhisveri is a match for the Archmage of Memories, Oiena.”
“And he just…learned that? What war did he participate in to reach that level? Was he taught by a former [Archmage] after all? There’s something you’re keeping from me, Itorin.”
He sighed.
“Yes. It’s not my secret to share. It’s Rhisveri’s…perhaps the moment has come, my dear. But if you think today is startling, then know that it’s nothing compared to the truth.”
Her lips compressed because she didn’t like the idea of being the [Queen] and being coddled from the truth, but he fixed her with a serious gaze, and she nodded.
“Then I insist. Later.”
“Later.”
He agreed and watched Lyonette. It had all gone well so far, but Itorin had made one mistake in this ball. He had forgotten who it was about. As the hour grew later and the attractions gave way to more drinks, Great Knight Eclizza was finally located by two breathless Knights of the Thirsting Veil.
In hindsight, Dame Chorisa and Dame Lacres would readily admit that running to tell Dame Eclizza that Duke Rhisveri had brought an enemy [Princess] to the palace was a mistake. That they hadn’t located her all night was mostly due to being challenged by every level of security and having to prove their identities until they finally got access to the party. When they found her, she was already in a bad mood.
And her bad moods were legendary.
 
——
 
From [Fistfighter] on the streets to a Hydra Knight dining with the most rich and powerful men and women of Ailendamus. Hydra Knight Yoriven couldn’t believe his luck.
And it was luck that he was here; a common Hydra Knight with no great deeds aside from surviving the Dawn Concordat’s war (and being punched out by Ser Solstice) did not exactly confer upon him great status.
However, the Hydra Knights were utterly equality-based, so they’d done a raffle for who got to go to the huge party. Dame Merila had even offered to put in her place, but she was their Great Knight and had to attend as a manner of honor.
It was Yoriven’s luck to go, and only a few of the senior [Knights] like Knight-Commander Forcel were mandatory guests; the rest of the Hydra Knights came from far and wide as their ballots dictated.
He’d already had four platefuls of fine food, and Yoriven’s belly was groaning. He hadn’t spoken to many nobles; some were rather aloof, but Regalius had sought him out, remembered his name, and shaken his hand and talked about Yoriven’s latest deployment before having to head off.
Mostly, the Hydra Knight had stared at all the entertainments. His eyes hurt from Ailendamus’ wonders, and in truth, he felt too shook to enter the ballroom and hobnob.
The gardens were fine enough! Unlike the palace, they were transient, the work of each generation to maintain, but he had heard the royal gardens had only grown with each passing decade.
The late Magistrate Fithea had won awards for her work here. She had brought everything from the classic bridge-over-pond architecture to hedges carved into the shapes of animals, but always put her twist on the matter.
Instead of a perfect, neat pond, she had insisted on a lake being placed in the gardens—the royal palace was big enough to hold one in its grounds—and placed a vast pier that stretched into the center of it. But it was no tamed lake with over-fat fish; the lake went deep, and if you cared to fish, there were over two hundred breeds of fish, some in their own pockets of water that you could catch.
Applying for a fishing permit was apparently a mark of prestige, and some amateur [Anglers] had made it their goal to catch every species.
The same for the hedges. Instead of re-pruning delicate hedges into desired shapes, the magistrate had made a compromise. She’d hired half-Elves who encouraged thorny bushes to naturally grow into desired shapes; they’d bloom with flowers and then wither into their base forms each summer. And if you wanted traditional hedges, she allowed it, but only plants so robust the trimming couldn’t harm them.
So—Yoriven could turn his head and see a snarling bear about forty feet high, one of the super-hedge ornaments. He’d also heard tell that the greenhouses were filled with every plant species Ailendamus had ever catalogued…but those were in the academies, not here. The grand fountain set into the courtyard adjourning the ballroom was still enough for him; the garden’s nightlife was out.
Glowing crickets and fireflies hovering in the air and the buzz of insects as you ate and talked. Somehow, they knew better than to get close to the people who’d squash them, and the feeling of being in nature was disconcerting to some cityfolk, clearly. Yoriven himself just gazed at a moth glowing with faint light as it fluttered past him and thought himself beyond lucky to have won the chance to be here.
Though it was nature. He sighed as a bat grabbed the lovely moth out of the air and flew, squeaking, towards its fellows dancing in the night sky.
Yoriven had asked the servants to get him a hamper basket so he could bring food back to the barracks to share with the rest of the unlucky losers. He was actively fighting the urge not to drink too much to make the night vanish.
However, at this moment, the entertainment had died down in the palace, and the fireflies were blazing different colors in the night sky. Most of the guests were heading back inside where music was playing, and Yoriven didn’t know how to dance. So he did what [Knights] did: he stood around in armor and talked to other [Knights]. What else?
There were three Knight Orders in Ailendamus. All of different stations, like Drell Knights, who were all-nobility, and the mostly-commonfolk Hydra Knights, and the almost totally female Thirsting Veil Knights willing to use poison and subterfuge. Not just them; Taimaguros had sent their own Knights of Taima and Knights of Gura, red and blue respectively, and the two fought like cats and dogs. Between that and foreign dignitaries, Yoriven had plenty of people to jaw with. Some were, again, aloof and thought of themselves as true [Knights] by virtue of rank and blood, but many were charmingly down-to-earth.
After a pair of Drell Knights had excused themselves from a conversation with him and left a bad taste in his mouth, a [Knight] dressed in mithril had approached him.
“Ser, to whom do I have the honor of addressing? I am Ser Makren of the Order of Haegris. In service to Kaaz at this moment as a member of the Thousand Lances.”
Yoriven almost dropped his wineglass.
“S-Ser Makren? It’s an honor!”
The man was in his fifties and had peppery hair and a bluff face, and he waved away the bow with a chuckle.
“Please don’t. I’m hardly well-placed in the Thousand Lances.”
“Ser, you’re still amongst the most elite [Knights] in the world! May I know your title?”
They all had a title, and Makren grimaced.
“Makren the Munificent. Which is no insult, by the way; I chose it myself. I paid for this armor with my business—you know the Order of Haegris’ reputation, don’t you?”
“Haggle Kn—I do beg your pardon!”
This time, Makren actually laughed.
“No, no! It’s a compliment! I’m the only one in the entire Thousand Lances; I think they made me train just so we could say we have one in their ranks! Point of pride. And it is a point of pride to buy one’s own armor, isn’t it? It makes me worthy enough to join the Thousand Lances. Without it, I am not one, and the deed that won me my armor was no great quest, but slaying unscrupulous [Merchants] on the scales of barter time and again!”
He was being humble. Now Yoriven heard the name, he knew Makren was a very generous [Knight] who crusaded against poverty and disease much like his entire order did.
“You built a fortune trading, Ser? May I know how that goes?”
“Of course! Haegris gives every new [Knight] a leg up and some capital. We always put it back towards the Order once we do well, but in truth, once you have gold, making more is easier. It’s a distressing truth. So, for the small investment of a thousand gold coins, I started my business in metals, oh, thirty years ago…”
He waggled his eyebrows and gave Yoriven an accounting of how he’d gotten to where he was, then they talked about the Thousand Lances.
“We’re all stirred up about the New Lands. Instead of talking about Ailendamus’ wars, no offense, it’s all about there. I don’t mind telling you that I felt too old to go myself, but I can share that quite a few of my Order have gone or are intending to go!”
“With Kaaz?”
Ser Makren frowned and sighed, and Yoriven realized he’d brought up a bad topic.
“No, not with the colony ships. Some of our own fell against the Bloodtear Pirates. Independently. A few high-ranking members…we are not all equally weighted, we thousand. Actually, we have a rather simple system in which I am at the bottom—but I daresay well liked enough because I don’t strive to compete. A friend who knows finances is useful in the Thousand Lances.”
He was describing how they worked to a fascinated Yoriven when a small altercation caught their attention. Two Thirsting Veil Knights practically dashed into the gathering.
“Sisters! Are you off-duty? Join us!”
A rather soused Dame Knight of the Thirsting Veil waved an unsteady hand at the two newcomers. The Thirsting Veil Knights were largely bad partners for talking tonight. In general, they were surly and loners, who preferred their sisterhood, but tonight the opposite had happened.
They were so happy about their Great Knight’s return to life that all of them were drunk or ebullient. Pleasant to talk to, but too much so—the two newcomers weren’t drunk, though, and their alarm made Makren and Yoriven peek up from their discussions.
“We have no time. Is Great Knight Eclizza here? I am Dame Chorisa, and I need to see her urgently!”
Where was Great Knight Eclizza? Yoriven realized he hadn’t seen her all night, and the banquet was in her honor. Makren cast around with a frown as well, and the other [Knights] called out.
Then a shadow seemed to detach itself from one of the fountains. Yoriven jumped as Dame Knight Eclizza pushed herself off the bench where she’d sat hidden. How…?
He saw a man in a black suit stand and bow, then walk the other way. A member of House Shoel? But Yoriven’s eyes were locked on the famous Great Knight, the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus.
He’d never seen Eclizza before. Her armor didn’t seem noticeably better than the two [Knights] who rushed towards her, but then, it was jet black with only a few faint purple and green highlights. Yet just the way she moved and stood made him feel like he beheld a coiled snake, all readiness to action.
“That is Great Knight Eclizza, is she? I should introduce myself if she is willing to speak.”
Yoriven had talked to Merila, and meeting another Great Knight was vastly appealing to see what he should aspire to. However, Makren had shifted, and his face had notably clouded as someone else spoke up.
“I would not were I you, Hydra Knight Yoriven. She is ill-tempered tonight, hence her aura cloaking. I barely espied her myself, and I stayed well away. Ser Makren, do you know our Great Knight?”
Knight Commander Forcel! Yoriven bowed slightly to his superior as the Knight of the Thousand Lances saluted him with a cup.
“Only by reputation. I was amazed she had been revived…or her injuries kept hidden while she recuperated. A boon for Ailendamus, and I share your celebrations, but I must say, I pity your enemies.”
Makren muttered, wearing the same expression as Knight-Commander Forcel. The two older men eyed Eclizza, who was listening as one of the two Thirsting Veil Knights waved their arms and pointed back to the palace. Yoriven laughed uncertainly.
“Ser Makren, you are too harsh! Great Knight Eclizza is an inspiration to her Order; you see that in the celebrations of her order. I have never heard an ill word of her, any more than Dame Merila. Have you, Commander Forcel?”
Actually, Yoriven had heard several ill things about his beloved Hill Knight, especially about her failure to stop Ser Solstice and other [Knights] in duels. But he omitted that and looked to Forcel for support.
The [Knight-Commander] didn’t answer right away. He coughed, then spoke without taking his eyes off Eclizza.
“In conduct, she is the model of what a [Knight] is, Ser Yoriven. That much is true. But I—”
He searched for words.
“You have never met her personally, nor seen her in battle, Ser Yoriven, nor you, Ser Makren?”
They shook their heads, and Forcel exhaled.
“Then let me just say this: she is a perfect [Knight]. A fighter beyond peer, master of auras. I heard she has overwhelmed the Order of Seasons in their speciality and bested some of the Thousand Lances in combat.”
“Oh, aye. Before they called her Great Knight, even. A scandal indeed.”
Makren murmured, and Forcel jerked his head at Eclizza. The air seemed to be…tingling around her. No, not tingling, Yoriven realized.
Writhing. Like sickly fumes. He felt rather ill just regarding it, and he noticed the water coming from the fountain changing colors. Turning greener…and the grass was dying. Forcel eyed Eclizza.
“She is the opposite of Dame Merila. Even Great Knight Gilaw and her temper is nothing compared to Dame Eclizza. When she goes to war, she embodies the heart of the Thirsting Veil. Poison without mercy. She does not enjoy social graces, and I believe the Duke is the only man short of the [King] who she will take a direct order from. And…I rather fear something has spoiled her mood.”
Indeed—if her aura was any indication, she was very upset. The two Thirsting Veil Knights had stopped talking. One was still pointing back to the ball room, and Yoriven saw the hand lower and the knights suddenly make placating gestures with their hands.
Everyone was far too distant to hear what was being said, but a picture was a thousand words. Especially when said picture was of Eclizza’s hand reaching out and grabbing the first Thirsting Veil Knight.
By the top of their helmet. You’d think that metal gauntlets on more polished metal wouldn’t get a good grip, but if your fingers were currently denting said enchanted helmet and squeezing it—well, you got a good grip.
“Uh oh. Dame Eclizza! Great Knight!”
Forcel started running, and Yoriven was right with him. They saw the first [Knight]’s feet lift off the ground as the second tried to reason with Eclizza.
“Dame Eclizza, we were delayed in getting to you by security! We just wished to tell—”
“He invited her here? One of them? To be his date?”
Her words were practically dripping with venom. Yoriven felt ill the moment he ran into her aura, but Forcel reached out.
“Great Knight, you are hurting your junior!”
Eclizza’s head swung towards him, and Forcel’s aura pushed back her noxious one. Yoriven could breathe again. She glanced over—and seemed to see she was holding her sister [Knight] so hard the helmet was deforming. She let go.
Dame Chorisa dropped to the ground, ripping at her helmet and exposing her thankfully-unbroken head. She gasped.
“Dame Eclizza, wait—it’s just the Duke’s desperation, nothing more! We only wished to tell you because of the risks—”
“Rhisveri knows the risks. He treats this like some game. After all that has been done to Ailendamus? I am not amused. It seems I am interested in socializing after all. Let us see what his guest is like, then.”
The Duke’s guest? Yoriven had heard some joking about that earlier, but—he barred her way, and the Great Knight regarded him.
“Dame Eclizza, forgive me! I am a mere [Knight] of the Order of Hydra, Ser Yoriven! But you may be overly hostile in this moment of celebration! Shall we not drink to your health? With Dame Merila and Knight Commander Forcel and Ser Makren?”
He called out, looking to Forcel, the Thousand Lances’ [Knight], and Dame Merila, who was sitting near the hedge maze with a huge tankard in hand. All three [Knights] turned to gape at him—with every other [Knight] in the gardens—and Merila’s eyes seemed to suggest ‘leave me out of this’.
He’d never seen the Hill Knight abandon any fight. But wait…now that Yoriven thought of it, wasn’t Dame Eclizza the foremost Great Knight of Ailendamus? It was a small, small group so named, but she led them when they marshaled for a battle together. And she tested new applicants for worthiness. There had been some ‘Mirror Knight’ on the western border, but he’d died—and presumably been found unworthy.
Now that Yoriven really thought about it, Merila had once said that almost every fight of her life that had been the hardest had been against fellow [Knights]. Including…when she’d become a Great Knight…
He stared at the blank visor of the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus, and his heart quailed in the face of her overwhelming presence, though she was shorter than he was. But he had said his piece, and he was a [Knight]. So he held his ground.
“Dame Eclizza, this is surely not a night to come to blows.”
She studied him up and down.
“Your name again, Hydra Knight?”
“S-Ser Yoriven, Great Knight.”
Eclizza nodded once as Chorisa and Lacres stood there, Chorisa’s face pale with fear.
“Said well, Ser Yoriven. If you should live to Level 40, I will recommend you to train in House Shoel. Tonight is, indeed, no night for violence.”
He exhaled in relief and smiled, half-turning to search for some wine so they could drink to that. Then he saw Forcel’s eyes widen warningly and felt a chill run down his spine.
Eclizza was standing in front of him. But he’d turned—when had she moved? And she had a hand on his chestplate.
“However, I know the dance of blades in social settings as well as war. The good Duke is served by Great Knights and Great Generals and his peers. I merely wish to test Miss ‘Eyon’ by the same standards I hold to my peers. Excuse me.”
Then she shoved him. Or rather, her hand moved down and pushed up, and he swore it was a light shove. Amazing, Yoriven thought. Quite amazing—he wondered if Ser Makren could do that. Probably not; he saw the man gaping up at him in horror as the ground got further and further away from him.
Man wasn’t meant to fly. Certainly not in plate armor. Still, he gamely flapped his arms a few times as the palace drew closer and wondered how much this was going to hurt. Maybe he’d hit a window if he was l—
“Gotcha!”
Dame Merila grabbed Yoriven out of the sky and almost slammed into the wall of a tower. She caught it to steady herself, and Yoriven’s helmet nearly collided with a [Servant] frozen in an open window. Yoriven panted at the half-Elf.
“Good evening, miss. Sorry about the inconvenience—”
Then Merila was lowering him. Yoriven’s feet touched the ground, and he sat down hard. Merila was panting for breath.
“Ser Yoriven, you are a man after my own heart for bravery and a lack of sense!”
She gasped at him, and he remembered to breathe. In, out, in, out…he was amazed more people weren’t running over; only a few [Knights], including Forcel and Ser Makren. The rest were all following Dame Eclizza. Yoriven got up shakily as Merila offered him a finger.
“Okay, my attempt seemed to be lacking. Dame Merila, I nominate you for the next try. What’s she doing to that poor woman inside?”
Merila peered over everyone’s heads as they stared into the ballroom. Then she poked Forcel and touched her nose with a finger.
“Not it. You stop them.”
Forcel peered at her with betrayal in his eyes, then copied the gesture and touched Ser Makren. Instantly, the Knight of the Thousand Lances poked Dame Chorisa, who tried to grab Dame Lacres—then the [Knights] were arguing who was going to stop Dame Eclizza. All the Order of the Thirsting Veil instantly jumped back. Chorisa, in her desperation, tagged the lone figure not moving.
“You stop her!”
Lady Paterghost turned with a straw sticking out of a winecup. The former Great Knight of Ailendamus cast around as everyone turned to her in relief and consternation. Her reply was loud, brisk, and cheerful.
“Good heavens, no. I can’t wait to see what happens next.”
Then they all peered into the ballroom. Ser Yoriven told himself that he’d done all he could, and Eclizza had promised there wouldn’t be violence.
Fifteen minutes later, the aura clash blew out the windows.
 
——
 
Dame Eclizza halted in the glass doors that led into the ballroom from the outside gardens. Behind her, the shadows twined like snakes along the feet of armored [Knights], stretching out for hundreds of feet as the grand palace blazed in excess of size and grandeur to anything you could imagine. Ailendamus’ palace looked like your imagination’s greatest conjuring, not something lesser or smaller as so many palaces were, mere edifices of stone.
From the inside, you saw its many influences and could wander the labyrinthine areas as they twined together. From the outside?
From the outside, you saw what was more unto a fortress of improbable size that had led Drakes to calling it a Walled City—an admission that told you how impressive Ailendamus’ palace was.
It was just—too wide. Your eyes roamed from right to left, and then you craned your head, then realized this was three-dimensional space. It had too many towers and spires, for each palace it had been made of had been central and important, so it seemed like a city of buildings, each tip polished and glittering in the night.
Excess and conquest. Like some terrible being that had absorbed every defeated foe into it. Bloated, some said—but the vista was more overwhelming than corpulent.
Behold, my kingdom that shall last ten thousand years. How was it said? ‘Look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair.’ This was that palace before the sands claimed it, and it took many’s breath away.
It was a child’s dream, this kingdom. Filled with majestic heroes, lofty dreams of noble government, magic, and beauty. Her kingdom. It was so…young. She knew what they said of it, the other nations. So many feared Ailendamus’ growing empire, but they said it could not, would not last. It would vanish within a thousand years, unable to keep the rapid growth and strength of its kingdom compared to the ones founded by the Hundred Heroes. Perhaps that was true; they had few of the same Relics or protections of old. But they had people in this kingdom who were the Hundred Heroes’ equals.
Immortals. That was the secret bet Ailendamus had made. Whether the struggle and strife of those who lived forever could match Terandria’s greatest classes and the weight of antiquity.
This duality, of being a superpower and recognizing how precarious their situation might be against an alliance of foreign nations, of the immortal secret, meant Eclizza was both proud and paranoid. Confident and insecure by turns.
The same for everyone else. For instance, Ailendamus’ culture was hodgepodge, made of the best things they took from other nations and, at the same time, deeply uncertain. It didn’t have ancient traditions of its own, just those of conquered kingdoms absorbed into the zeitgeist. So what did they play as the hours lilted down into darkness?
Terandrian ballroom music. But not ‘traditional’ Terandrian ballroom music, which had a gentle melody, slow cadence, the kind of thing even a child or the elderly could dance to without embarrassing themselves. No, they had to show off, so they were playing Alamarian five-step.
It was about twice as fast as traditional Terandrian music and more complex—the shifts from high notes to low indicated sweeping moves like lifting a partner up and whirling them about, or floor-spanning steps that could take a dance pair a hundred feet in less than ten seconds. Alamaria had been known for this kind of music; they’d designed it in response to other species’ mockery of ‘slow and boring’ Terandrian waltzes.
Predictably, few people were on the dance floor even attempting the slower songs. The few that were were trained [Dancers] or the best amateurs. It was showy, and people were applauding the sideshow as they milled around the dance floor, talking and drinking this late into the night.
Eclizza’s head moved across nobles and her sisters in the order, officials and commonfolk alike, and to her, they all seemed so…fragile. Untrustworthy in the sense that she could give them none of her burdens.
Not the knowledge of Ailendamus nor trust them to ward her back in battle. The truth of Rhisveri’s nature would break them. They were not her level. They could not stand against dead gods or armies. She had no doubt they were brave, honest, talented individuals, but she herself felt…insufficient.
It was why she had been in such a foul mood despite coming back to life. Eclizza flexed one hand in her gauntlets and gazed at the black, enchanted metal moving. Armor worthy of a Named-rank adventurer, enchanted by Fithea herself. Close to Relic-class gear as anyone in this world had—and the body underneath was just as well-forged.
She was a work of art. Hand-forged by Agelum’s training and tutelage by Ailendamus’ experts. The Wyrm had made her, picked her from the Agelum’s many adopted children and offered her training. All that she could take. So many children backed out of that fire, the other half of the Agelum’s kindness, and they had found fine roles for their offspring, because they were too merciful to push until the breaking. You had to have the will to endure it on your own.
Eclizza alone had survived that crucible to the end. For that, she had been trusted. Had been given the knowledge of Ailendamus and Rhisveri’s confidence. She knew she was one of the few beings he relied upon among mortals.
And she had died. The knowledge burned the Great Knight of Ailendamus. All her training, all her levels—and it had been ended by a single finger pointing at her, the Death of Magic’s careless spell.
Annihilated—and Fithea and Dioname had followed soon after. If she had been alive, perhaps they might not have died. It was no idle boast; Eclizza would have been able to watch Ryoka Griffin as well as counter the Lightherald and assist in the war against Archmage Eldavin. She had been made to fight men such as Tyrion Veltras.
“—But I was always inferior.”
The Eclizza who had died and the memories of the one who had lived were now one woman—and what she realized was that both her worlds had been so fragile. One had begun to crack with her death. The other?
The Wyrm diving at the Goddess of Last Stands to buy a second as the worlds vanished like dying sparks, sucked into the void. A breaking hallway and an army of Crelers without end.
Eclizza could still taste the thoughts of Crelers screaming their fury at her, like caustic bile in her mind. Her helmet swivelled around the ballroom as people chuckled and gossiped.
And Rhisveri wondered why she was not enjoying this party in her honor. Eclizza’s wandering eyes finally found her quarry. It was not hard, despite the vast room.
She recognized Princess Lyonette du Marquin the moment she saw her, black hair or not. More than just the fact that they had both been in the [Palace of Fates], which was a big clue…
The crafted [Knight] recognized another child shaped to her purpose. Differently made, but nevertheless, her posture was too-perfect. She stood with such poise, listening, head tilted ever-so-slightly, chin raised, a smile upon her lips that even touched her eyes—all fake. Even if the woman inside were truly that interested, the act was beautiful.
Like a sculptor who had obsessed over every line of a statue, Eclizza saw the training that had produced the [Princess]. Just as she saw the cracks.
Someone had made a beautiful [Princess] out of clay, shaping her to be a wonderful tool. But there was a flaw: a fire was burning inside the clay doll, and it was beginning to blaze out through her shell. Her very aura could not be contained; she wore the shell she’d been taught, but Eclizza almost felt like shading her eyes.
Only King Itorin was higher level. And his was the product of decades of ruling. She had hit this level…when? How fast had she levelled, how much had she endured to grow this fast? Eclizza recognized it. She almost hesitated when she saw Rhisveri standing with Lyonette, making conversation and seeming genuinely interested.
Is he actually enjoying talking with this [Princess]? How can he? He has no friends. 
She knew the Wyrm of Ailendamus. Both Eclizzas did, and he let no one into his confidence. But with her…
Eclizza walked towards Lyonette automatically, without thinking. She knew that the other [Knights] were trying to stop her, including Chorisa and the other idiots, but she was the Pale Serpent.
Made for war. The Agelum of House Shoel had taught her via their oldest ways to be a living weapon, and they had made any number of women and men like her. Children they trained to their arts of battle until they could kill almost as well as Agelum themselves. Not unkindly; the Agelum were nothing but kind, but they knew the battlefield would mince even [Heroes]. So the training…
A room filled with bright light, lit from glass ceilings and illuminated with magic. But the blindfold never let you see more than dazzling lights, worse than blindness because it played upon the eyes. There you stood, stick in hand, fending off blows from every direction until you could fight blind, eat blind, and walk an obstacle course without missing a step. Until your aura became your eyes.
Betimes, the memories overtook her, and she had to remember the rest of what she was: a symbol of Ailendamus. Someone who had memorized ranks and studied politics. The warrior was the deepest part of her. She saw the [Princess]’ aura, a glowing, yet-unfinished work.
Light and command. Basics of Calanfer. Nothing stronger yet. But Eclizza could still see elements even another expert might miss; the way it linked Lyonette to that [Knight] in the old, bulky armor. Her bodyguard. Level…30. The armor was thick, but there was a scar on the chestplate.
Draw your sword, pierce the armor with aura in that spot, and the envenomed blade kills her in six seconds. Simple.
As for the [Princess]…she glanced up as Eclizza drew closer, and Rhisveri noticed her and froze. Was that worry in his eyes? Eclizza recognized Baron Regalius and a number of nobles who turned and saluted her.
“Dame Eclizza! The [Knight] of the hour! Will you join us, Dame Knight?”
Regalius called out, and Eclizza ignored him. She swept towards Lyonette, who hesitated, then smiled, eyes flicking up and down Eclizza’s armor. She was wary, on-guard. Her black hair swished behind her in a ponytail as she bowed.
Throatstrike. Won’t kill her if she has a tiara. Grab the neck and twist. Then envenom your fingers and pull her heart out.
The only way to kill royalty fast. The knowledge of how to murder each and every being she laid eyes on was just background noise to Eclizza. The commentary only stopped when she stood in the Agelum’s, Lucifen’s presence, or another powerful individual.
Or Rhisveri himself. He gave her a very nervous smile as he swished his wine cup around.
“Ah, Dame Eclizza. Welcome. You’re looking…quite well. May I introduce to you Miss Eyon? My, ah, ah—partner for this ball? How are you doing? Is there enough wine out there for the [Knights]?”
He made a show of glancing out into the gardens, and Eclizza replied, her voice flat.
“I have decided to speak with those gathered at this festival in my honor. Your Grace, you seem well.”
A Wyrm vanishing with a triumphant smile as a woman with a sword cut everything to ribbons. Eclizza blinked, and Rhisveri smiled sweatily at her.
“Me? Yes, marvellously so! Is it hot in here? Well, lovely chat! We shouldn’t keep you. Eyon, let’s just head this way—”
He was clearly worried she was going to figure out who Princess Lyonette was. Miss ‘Eyon’ was more put-together and merely gave Eclizza a polite smile.
“Do forgive His Grace, Dame Knight. May I introduce myself? I am indeed Eyonlett, and it is my honor to attend this magnificent event! Much less to meet a Great Knight of Ailendamus! You and Lady Paterghost are quite impressive, so forgive me if I’m somewhat taken.”
She was well-made indeed. Chuckles from the other nobles indicated how this stroked their egos. Eclizza just met Lyonette’s eyes and saw the [Princess]’ blue irises widen as she felt the Pale Serpent’s aura pressing at her. Like a wave of venom with the weight of the sea behind it. Eclizza’s voice was, to her own ears, just as uncompromisingly direct. Whatever Rhisveri and this [Princess] intended—Eclizza was not of a mind to play their game.
“You say so, Miss…Eyon? But we have met before.”
Eyon barely froze a millisecond before laughing. She extended her hand lightly.
“Have we? Do forgive me, then, I would remember—”
Eclizza’s hand crushed Lyonette’s hand, and the [Princess] bit back a shout of pain. The [Knight] yanked Lyonette closer.
“We have. I remember you well.”
But she hadn’t been like this, before. Eclizza had only seen a broken [Princess] holding a dead child in her arms. Her ancestress calling on armies to make one final stand.
This woman…was far more than Eclizza had seen in the [Palace of Fates], and the Great Knight had taken the inn’s measure already. Even so, Eclizza had her doubts, so she pressed. Besides, her daughter had come back to life anyways.
Lyonette wavered, and the Pale Serpent’s aura blasted over her. Not purely hostile, just overwhelming. Venomous contempt and anger and frustration, not directed purely at Lyonette—but at her own weakness, the many foes they had witnessed, at the senseless death they had endured.
A snake preparing for war. Of course, Eclizza imagined it seemed like an attack. Certainly, the other nobles flinched backwards with cries of pain as her aura stung them. But the [Princess] was higher-level, and she guarded herself, a thin layer of light protecting her skin from the caustic venom.
She recognized she wasn’t under attack, and so did her bodyguard. No one else did.
“Eclizza! Don’t be so—hostile!”
Rhisveri’s first reaction was to try to free Lyonette from Eclizza’s grasp. He seized her hand in a powerful grip, and she was stunned.
Since when does he care for anyone like that? And—
When did his Human body become so strong?
He actually managed to pull her arm back until she shook him off. Eclizza’s helmet swivelled, and she flicked him with her aura; he went stumbling back into General Bathnir’s arms.
“Dame Knight, that is a—a powerful greeting! I hope Miss Eyon hasn’t offended you in some way?”
Regalius was trying to edge in between Eclizza and Lyonette, using his own aura like a shield. Brave man; he was visibly wincing and paling as her venom provoked an allergic reaction on his skin. Eclizza let go of Lyonette’s hand, and the [Princess] massaged her fingers, confused and wary.
“I hope I’ve not offended you, Dame Knight. I can’t imagine what I’ve done, but if I have done…anything, or anyone in my company has, I throw myself upon your mercy. Especially today.”
Her eyes were direct as she met Eclizza’s gaze, and she was unafraid. Just—wary. Of course, a woman who’d faced the Goblin King wouldn’t fear this. She seemed to think Eclizza blamed her for the [Palace of Fates]. The Great Knight jerked her head in a brief shake.
“Not that. I object to your presence here.”
They were enemies. Their nations were at war. What was she thinking? The [Princess] winced, and she bit her lip. Then her eyes slid sideways to Rhisveri.
“Circumstances do lead to strange bedfellows.”
“Some beds are filled with vipers. Even a fool would think better than to hop into them.”
The nobilities’ heads were swinging back and forth from Lyonette to Eclizza as they spoke in blunt code. Lyonette colored, then hissed back.
“Well, some people aren’t given much choice before they’re virtually teleported into said beds!”
Teleported into—? Eclizza had assumed that this [Princess] had been the fool in Dame Chorisa’s rushed explanation of what had happened. But the moment she heard that, she formed a different, and more accurate, understanding of what Rhisveri had done.
Her head twisted around, and now it was the Duke’s turn to back up a few steps. He opened and closed his mouth, then stared up at the ceiling.
“…Marvellous architecture; I say it every time I’m in here. The old Drenv palace roof, you know, reconverted into that marvellous radial design.”
He peered up at the distant beams which formed a spiral of marble over the dance floor. Eclizza didn’t glance up.
“I see. It appears Duke Rhisveri is as presumptuous regarding impromptu transportation as I recall.”
Like when you got me killed trying to apprehend a random Izrilian thief. Rhisveri was suddenly staring hard at his shoes, and Lyonette smiled sweetly.
“A close confidant of the Duke are you, Great Knight Eclizza? I was unaware he had any friends.”
An accurate statement, but it annoyed Eclizza to hear the [Princess] say it. Eclizza’s head turned, and the aura once again pinned Lyonette; the color drained from her cheeks until that [Knight] blocked some of Eclizza’s aura with her body. That had to hurt, but the woman did it anyways, even lifting a shield.
Thronebearer. Huh. Eclizza ignored the shield and focused her aura; she ran Lyonette through the chest with it, and the [Princess] paled further.
“I say, Dame Eclizza, however upset you must be, this is rather unfortunate! Miss Eyon has been the spirit of a good guest to Ailendamus! If I could offer you a drink and toast to the health of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory—”
Regalius was doing his best. Now the other nobles were trying to shove Eclizza back a step. All combined, they barely did a thing, much to their clear chagrin. Eclizza just pressed at Lyonette. The [Princess]’ chin rose.
“It appears I am unwelcome, Baron Regalius. Never let it be said that I cannot take a hint. But what would you call this, Dame Eclizza? This—impropriety to a guest at your own banquet?”
“A warning.”
Eclizza was waiting for the [Princess] to fire back her aura. She wanted it. She wanted to see what the [Princess] was made of, to see what had managed to catch Rhisveri’s eye, even for a second.
What are you doing, woman? We are at war, and I will break the Dawn Concordat if I must. Why are you here? Why Rhisveri, even for a jest or to assuage his ego? Why him of all beings?
Not him. Not the lonely Wyrm of Ailendamus. The odds of anyone ever charming him had been beyond remote, but it would have been the most alarming thing if someone had caught his eye. Because, Eclizza well knew, such a lonely being…what might he do for the one woman—or man—to catch his eye? And she had wondered if it might be a man, like the Agelum spoke of.
Her private worry, anger, and—jealousy that the [Princess] was in the position that Eclizza could not be in, for so many reasons, was in the silent strife between their auras. Eclizza’s aura was beginning to distort the air like a sickly heatwave, and all the food the nobles were holding had suddenly begun to rot, turn rancid.
Indeed, the rest of the diners and dancers were turning to watch the showdown. Concerned [Knights] filing in from the gardens, the royal family glancing up from their table, guests pointing and wondering who that woman facing the Great Knight was.
“Eclizza, may I have a quick word?”
Rhisveri was back, hissing at Eclizza, a smile on his sweaty face. She just murmured back to him.
“Once I am finished, you may explain your poor decisions to me, Your Grace.”
“Once you’re finished what?”
“Chasing her off.”
“There’s no call for that! Step back and pull your aura; that’s an order!”
He snapped at her, visibly angry. Eclizza’s helmet tilted slightly.
“But you do not give me orders, Duke Rhisveri.”
His eyes widened.
“I am—”
“—the Duke. I report to my superiors.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus, not his Human self. The Duke hesitated, and he began to realize how truly furious she was. And accordingly—looked worried. Lyonette was breathing hard; she was barely keeping the lance of venom from touching her actual flesh.
“If I may ask, how far are you going to go, Dame Eclizza?”
Eclizza’s overbearing aura faded slightly, and she gave Lyonette a level look.
“You may go, if your lesson has been learned. Do not return.”
For everyone’s sakes. She thought the [Princess] would accept, but Lyonette’s head went down, then her shoulders went back, and her chin rose.
“—Odd. I rather thought I needed to do something wrong to incur such a stringent lesson, Dame Eclizza. And if I refuse?”
Despite herself, the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus grinned.
“Then let’s see if you’re ready to stand in Ailendamus’ palace. It is not in front of a Goblin King. I have no doubt you are a match for it.”
Then two pale glows burned from between the slits in her helmet’s visor, and the full weight of Eclizza’s aura hit the [Princess] of Calanfer. It washed over the 6th Princess, and behind her, Lady Yietha dropped her cup with a shout of alarm; the wine had turned acidic, and smoke was rising from the silver goblet, which had turned black.
As for the [Princess]? She blanched dead white, and then her eyes locked with Eclizza’s and began fighting back. The Great Knight beamed behind her helmet. Despite it all—the Agelum had always taught her to respect a great opponent.
What was the purpose of strife if there was no one worthy to fight against? Eclizza’s aura faltered as the light of Calanfer’s scion pressed against it.
Then it doubled in intensity.
The five nearest nobles watching instantly projectile-vomitted.
 
——
 
Oh my. Lyonette had known that she wasn’t a match for a Great Knight of Ailendamus in any way, but she had wondered if she could at least be a decent opponent in an aura-war.
The answer was: no. Eclizza was a full monster in every sense of the word. The only thing keeping Lyonette from puking her own guts out was her [Greater Resistance: Poison] Skill.
She’s so straightforwards. The [Knight] did not like Lyonette. She was making that very clear, and she was telling Lyonette to get lost in no uncertain terms. Honestly…it was almost commendable how straightforwards Eclizza was.
Why am I even fighting her off? Lyonette’s hand was sweating green beads as she tried to hold Eclizza off. She felt nauseous, and she really didn’t know why she was even sticking around. It was just—she didn’t feel like being run off by this angry [Knight], and—she shot a glance at Rhisveri’s desperate face.
This idiot owes me a favor, and I might need his help. So I can’t back down! Lyonette gritted her teeth. She tried to muster a sortie of her aura, but she was barely able to keep Eclizza from squashing her like a bug. Any second now, she’d buckle, and then the aura would probably make her so sick that she’d void her guts from every orifice she had—which would probably be as good as exile.
Unbidden, as Lyonette swayed and Ushar whispered an oath from her helmet, she wondered if Mrsha was watching this showdown on television. Are you having fun, Mom?
…Sort of. That was the crazy thing, and that was why the Great Knight’s aura faltered once.
“Why are you smiling, woman?”
Lyonette tried to stop and just ended up grinning harder.
“I’m sorry. It’s more relaxing than my life of late, that’s all.”
She almost laughed hysterically in Eclizza’s face as Regalius gave her a bug-eyed expression of disbelief. And two things happened next to break this stalemate. The first was that Lyonette blinked, gasped, and nearly jumped out of her skin.
“Now? I—”
She caught herself, and Eclizza wavered a second as everyone stared at Lyonette. But the [Princess] just closed her mouth, determined, and the second thing was more interesting anyways. Which was that someone came up behind Eclizza and tapped the Great Knight on the shoulder.
“Excuse me, Dame Knight!”
“Leave.”
Eclizza didn’t even glance around as the high-pitched, annoying voice shrilled in her ears. The person tapped Eclizza on the shoulder again, harder.
“It’s really important! I’d like to introduce myself!”
This time, Eclizza’s head turned, and she audibly growled…then went as still as Lyonette and Regalius and everyone else who was staring at the giant, blue sock puppet with button eyes. Rhissy the Sock Puppet beamed at Eclizza.
“My name’s Rhissy. And that’s my friend there! Hiyah!”
Then he headbutted Eclizza in the forehead. It looked stupid, but Lyonette felt the ground quiver under her feet, and Eclizza let go of the [Princess]. She took a step back, and her aura retreated. Lyonette withdrew several steps, gasping, and Ushar hurried her back.
“What is…this?”
Her cool voice was suddenly, exceptionally unsettled. Everyone else recognized Rhissy, but Eclizza hadn’t ever seen the giant sock puppet. Rhissy waved two tiny hands and did a hop to wave at the silent ballroom.
“Hey, everyone, it’s me, Rhissy! Ailendamus’ most beloved sock puppet! Have you all been good boys and girls? Where’s the wine! I—ulp!”
Eclizza grabbed the back of Rhissy’s ‘head’ and slammed the sock puppet down into a knee. It would have broken someone else’s jaw; she lifted the puppet up and shook it.
“It’s some kind of Golem?”
“Hey, that’s not very nice!”
Rhissy gave her an uppercut and ripped free. He jabbed a few times and backed up.
“You wanna cause trouble at your own party, Eclizza? I can throw hands! I’ve got two! Let me give you a lesson on manners! Don’t make me call the Windy Girl!”
He swayed menacingly left and right, and Eclizza silently turned to Regalius. The Baron was trying not to laugh in horror.
“That, uh—that would be ‘Rhissy’, I believe. In the flesh? Dead gods, it’s an amazing creation. It’s from the hit television show, Rhissy and the Windy Girl. By Duke Rhisveri himself.”
Eclizza’s head slowly turned to Rhisveri, who was hiding his mouth behind one hand.
“You made that abomination? Rhisveri?”
“Hey! Who’s an abomination? Your face is an abomination!”
Rhissy shot back as Rhisveri visibly spoke behind his hand. He was speaking and converting his voice into Rhissy’s!
Some of the foreign dignitaries—and children like Oesca—were having trouble standing up due to laughter. Telim had fallen down, and he was trying not to puke. But Eclizza seemed genuinely unsettled.
As well she might if she thought her beloved Wyrm was losing his mind. Lyonette was half-focused on Eclizza, half gathering herself.
“Miss Eyon, we should leave—”
Ushar was whispering, but Lyonette shook her head.
“I’m not running, Rusha. And…this is quite hilarious. Let it play out. Besides—”
Her eyes flickered.
“I think there’s something else happening to me.”
“What? Magic?”
“No, a Skill. But I won’t know what happened until after.”
That made Ushar confused, but Lyonette was certain she knew what was going on. Funny how it felt to be on the other end of the Skill…she watched as Eclizza made up her mind.
“If you have an issue with my conduct, deliver it to my face, Rhisveri. Dispel this…puppet.”
She grabbed Rhissy’s face.
“Hey! Watch the stitching!”
Eclizza ignored him and, with her other hand, delivered an uppercut so powerful it sent Rhissy flying upwards. For a second, Lyonette saw the imprint of the Great Knight’s arm jutting out of Rhissy’s back; then the sock puppet was spinning through the air.
“Rhissy!”
Oesca screamed in genuine horror as she ran forwards from where she and her older sister were watching. Lyonette whispered to Ushar.
“Would that have ripped through someone’s spine if it wasn’t Rhissy, Rusha?”
“I think it’d rip through unenchanted armor, Miss Eyon.”
People were gathered around the sock puppet, who lay like a wagon-hit victim on the floor, mouth open, a cloth tongue sticking out. Eclizza turned back to Lyonette…and the blue sock puppet lifted its head off the floor.
“Violence isn’t good, kids. Except if it’s in defense of someone or against Crelers or abusers. Did you think you could beat Rhissy with mere violence, Great Knight Eclizza?”
He lurched upright and swayed forwards menacingly. Eclizza turned back to Rhissy. He smirked at her.
“I’m Rhissy. The Great Sock of Ailendamus! Who’s stronger, me or the Pale Serpent? Mmm?”
His head twisted sideways, and his ‘face’ puckered up into a crazed grin as he shuffled around Eclizza. The Great Knight just stared at Rhissy. Then her hand shot out.
She clocked Duke Rhisveri in the face, and both he and the sock puppet doubled over. A voice came from both mouths.
“Ah! Dead gods, my face! My toof! Aaaah! It hurts—”
Eclizza turned her back on the sock puppet and strode to Lyonette with the air of ‘I have to get back to what I know’. Solid ground, like bullying [Princesses], not having a showdown with a giant sock. In fairness, violence was currently working.
But her aura was visibly rattled. Lyonette? Lyonette was just smiling. She’d seen crazier. That was already making Eclizza hesitate when someone walked forwards, nodded at Lyonette, and set herself before the [Princess] and the angry [Knight].
“Dame Eclizza, upon my honor and Ailendamus’, don’t you think this affray has gone a bit too far? I do not presume to speak for the throne, but I must insist you stop!”
Of all the people, of all the things, even Lyonette blinked in pure incomprehension as her most unlikely savior barred Eclizza’s path. She tossed her magnificent hair back and pointed a long, dramatic finger at the Pale Serpent, who did halt…if only to avoid running over Princess Ozena.
The [Battle Princess] of Ailendamus seemed very pleased with herself. She was giving Lyonette quick nods and smiling both at her and the royal table where her parents were watching. It seemed Princess Ozena had gotten it into her head that in order to redeem herself, she had better defuse this situation with the [Princess] of Calanfer.
Honestly…her parents couldn’t tell whether this was a terrible decision or a brilliant one. However, Dame Eclizza was not to be stopped.
“Your Highness. Good evening to you.”
“Dame Eclizza, it is an honor to be at your banquet!”
Ozena beamed and bowed lightly to the Great Knight. Eclizza’s voice was flat.
“Indeed. Move.”
Ozena’s bow wavered.
“—And if I refuse? Miss Eyon is our guest, and lest my royal father decree otherwise, it is your party…but this is highly unchivalrous.”
“Chivalry is not for you to use to lecture me, even if I respected the word. Move.”
Ozena flicked a sword from her sheath and pointed it dramatically at Eclizza.
“You shall have to force me to do so! We are both daughters of Ailendamus! Let our wills be the deciding vote for all to see!”
She was poised, dramatic, winning the eyes and attention of her people. Ozena smiled confidently at Eclizza until the Pale Serpent rolled her shoulders.
“Very well.”
Eclizza threw her full aura at Ozena, and it was actually visible as a black orb of writhing snakes. Ozena blanched, brought her sword up, and focused her aura—Lyonette felt a hand seize her and hurl her to the ground—
The explosion blew out the windows. Lyonette, shielded by Ushar’s armor, was saved from the reverberation which blew everyone near the two off their feet. When she poked her head up, she saw Eclizza standing over Ozena, who was gaping like a fish. But she was also surrounded by two dozen Drell Knights aiming their swords at her.
“Dame Eclizza, release your aura! You go too far!”
One of them was shouting over the ringing in Lyonette’s ears. The ballroom was in chaos, and Duke Rhisveri was using Rhissy’s body as cover. Lyonette sat up as Eclizza’s head turned to her, and she thought—
This is still so much more relaxing than I thought it’d be. I must be sick. 
Still, the [King] and [Queen] of Ailendamus weren’t taking control of the situation. Eclizza drew her sword, and Lyonette shot a glance at the high table. No, they weren’t being taken to a safe room or knocked senseless. She saw Queen Oiena chewing on something and sipping from a goblet of wine. She rather suspected the Queen of Ailendamus wanted to see what happened next.
Lyonette was just about to suggest to Ushar they grab Rhisveri and make tracks when her eyes widened. She heard a door closing in her head and blinked. Then she gasped.
“Oh.”
It had been what she thought after all. The [Pavilion of Secrets] Skill ended—
And then, Lyonette remembered.
 
——
 
Two Lyonettes appeared. One was in the ballroom of Ailendamus, being pressured by Eclizza’s aura. The other stepped back, adjusted her dress, and then walked through the door that had opened for her.
That familiar door that led into a gazebo in the middle of nowhere. Despite it all, the chaos, the weirdness, her angst over the party—she was already smiling.
Erin Solstice was sitting on top of the gazebo, her short, multicolored hair swaying in a breeze. When she saw Lyonette, she waved, but waited for the [Princess] to come striding towards her.
The first thing that the [Innkeeper] called down to Lyonette was a question.
“Hey, are you drunk this time?”
“Who, me, Erin? I’ve only had a glass of champagne at best!”
Lyonette cupped her hands to her mouth and laughingly called up to Erin. The [Innkeeper] weighed this with a frown. Then she sighed.
“Eh, good enough. Get up here, wouldja?”
She pointed, and glowing stairs appeared, letting Lyonette walk up to the roof of the gazebo. The [Innkeeper] eyed Lyonette’s clothing as the [Princess] ascended, lifting the skirts of her dress.
“Nice clothing.”
“Erin, this is the most magical and beautiful dress you’ve ever seen me wear.”
Erin squinted at the dress from the vaults of House Marquin and nodded.
“Yeah, it’s pretty nice. Where’d you get it?”
“One of my Skills.”
“Oh, cool. I’m not interrupting anything, am I?”
The [Princess] blew out her cheeks, but she was still beaming as she pulled her knees up to her chest. They sat on the gazebo’s roof, and she shook her head.
“I’m just being threatened by an angry [Knight]—in a ballroom. In Ailendamus.”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth and closed it before opening it again.
“…Are you sure you’re not drunk? Because I was gonna call you back so I didn’t leave you like I did, but you sound drunk.”
“No, Erin, it’s this entire…remember when Magnolia Reinhart kidnapped you? It is that.”
“Oh. Oh. Wait, can you get back?”
Lyonette nodded patiently, and Erin relaxed.
“That’s good, then. Okay, I get it. We just spent another day on the road, and I thought I’d call you back.”
“Mm. Here I thought you wouldn’t talk to me for ages.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Lyonette a patient look.
“You were being extra silly last night. I was gonna pretend it never happened so you didn’t get embarrassed, but I guess that’s not going to be a problem. Do you want to see where we are now?”
Because she was too happy to be called, the [Princess] didn’t push that particular issue or needle Erin back and just nodded. So, the Fraerling-sized woman waved a hand, and the black void shifted as the wind blew again. Then Lyonette peered down and blanched.
“Dead gods, Erin!”
“I know, right? But Fraerlings don’t get scared of heights. We’re actually camped right here. I’m watching Mera and Zemmy do cannonballs into the lake down there.”
Down ‘there’ was at the bottom of a giant waterfall. Well, a waterfall proportional to Fraerlings. It was probably just some brook that led into a sheer drop, but it went down what looked like hundreds of feet—again, relative to their size. A small body of water below showed Lyonette tiny figures. Resting against the brook, lapping up water, was the Battle Hamster and the giant beetle with the tent on its back. A Fraerling with white hair was making a fire, and another was poking insect eggs onto a stick.
“That’s…Eurise, and that’s Matha, right?”
Erin smiled, surprised despite herself.
“You remember their names?”
“I was drunk, but not that drunk, Erin. Where’s Ulvama?”
The Hobgoblin wasn’t visible immediately, but Erin pointed.
“In the tent on the beetle’s back. We’re getting ready for dinner—a late one. Everything’s still good, see?”
She was smiling and kicking her legs over the edge of the cliff. Though, Lyonette noticed, she wasn’t looking down at the drop. The [Princess] gazed at Erin, surprised.
“I thought you hated heights.”
Erin glanced down, then shrugged.
“I don’t super hate heights, but really tall stuff bugs me. It won’t kill me, and it’s a great view. I’ve got to get used to them. In case we run into trouble, you know?”
Oh, so this was training. Lyonette’s smile slipped, but that was the reality of Erin’s situation, wasn’t it? Besides…dubious food content aside, the campfire seemed lovely enough, and some food and fresh water didn’t sound bad. Nothing Lyonette would ever do, of course. Mrsha and Nanette would love it, sadly.
“I’m having a bit more of a refined night myself. I’m at a ballroom in—oh, why don’t I just show you?”
Lyonette waved her hand and copied Erin’s technique; the ballroom where she was appeared, and Erin blinked around.
“Huh. Fancy. So this is Ailendamus? How’d you end up there? Was it…House Shoel?”
Again, the guilt, but Lyonette hurried to explain as much as she could. She didn’t tell Erin much about Duke Rhisveri, just describing him as ‘a friend’, and Erin listened with that amused, slightly disbelieving expression so many wore when they heard of an inn-event.
“…And now some angry [Knight] is trying to get rid of you? Are you gonna fight her? You want backup?”
Lyonette laughed in amusement.
“She’s not going to murder me, Erin. The worst she’d do is poison me with her aura, I think. I’ll be fine. What would you even do to help me, anyways? Throw your boon at me? That’d just cause a fuss.”
Erin tilted her head as she thought about it.
“No…I’d ask you what her name is. Then I’d use the [Pavillion of Secrets] on her. If you really needed help, of course. It’s risky.”
Oh. Lyonette’s smile slipped as she realized Erin did have power. She hastened to assure Erin she was fine.
“I’ll be okay, Erin. It’s just bullying. Not even bullying, really. She has a point. I don’t know what I’m doing with the Duke. I just…”
She sat there, chin in her hands.
“I think I just wanted a night off. Mrsha thought I needed it. She told me to stay!”
“Well, if you need a night off, you need a night off. Just don’t let her mess with you. We shouldn’t stand for that kind of thing after all we’ve been through.”
Erin chucked a pebble off the edge of the cliff and watched it fall. Lyonette nodded, gazing down…she decided not to after she felt the lurch of vertigo in her own stomach. Then she regarded Erin.
Should I ask about…? No, this was too pleasant. Lyonette didn’t want to pull that calm expression off Erin’s face. So they just sat for a bit, and Lyonette told Erin about how her [Treasury of House Marquin] Skill worked.
“Really? That’s awesome! And Ushar stabbed the ancestral armor of Queen Marquin? I bet she feels bad about it.”
“She’s wearing said armor, Erin. She has to since her armor’s too noticeable. I think she’s both going insane and delighted.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“That’s so funny. Can I tell Ulvama about this? She was really happy to know that Mrsha was okay. Really happy. And I guess I’ll tell her about your dress. She likes that kind of thing.”
Erin peered at Lyonette’s dress, clearly trying to memorize how it looked, and the [Princess] got up to twirl around and show off. She was pleased about that, then eyed Erin.
“Does she know about the [Palace]…?”
Erin avoided her gaze and nodded. She coughed into one hand and thumped her chest.
“I told her. I don’t want to keep secrets from her. But I didn’t tell her all of the…bad stuff.”
Lyonette nodded. She searched for something else to say, but then she just spread her arms.
“I should get back to my party. Any advice?”
Erin peered at Dame Eclizza, then eyed Duke Rhisveri. She gazed around at the ballroom.
“Well, I’m no good at monarchs and stuff. I just make them upset. Or stab them, I guess. I’m just surprised anyone is giving you a hard time, Lyonette.”
“Why? They don’t know I’m a [Princess]. Pettiness is practically baked into such events.”
Lyonette was amused, wondering what Erin thought of such occasions, but the [Innkeeper] coughed into her hand again and gave Lyonette a mildly befuddled look.
“I know that. But I meant because it’s you. You’re the 6th Princess of Calanfer, Lyonette. You know how to talk to those people. And you’re—Lyonette. Are you taking it easy on them? If you really wanted to, you could knock their socks off, I bet.”
The [Princess] waved a hand, turning her head and smiling, pleased but embarrassed.
“You give me too much credit, Erin. I’m not like the [King] of Ailendamus or…”
Erin stood.
“No. I know that. But you could. Even if you couldn’t win an aura clash…you could do something amazing. I dunno, you don’t have to. It’s just that if this is a fun party for you, why don’t you do what you want to? It’s got to be better than sitting around and getting sniped at.”
Her words made Lyonette turn back to her. The [Innkeeper]’s voice was soft, and she was glancing back to the tent and campfire. She had to go back to the real world, and so did Lyonette, but the way Erin said it so plainly made Lyonette turn back to the exit. The image of Erin’s camp flickered and became the ballroom, and Lyonette saw it with fresher eyes. Pleasant and fun, but had she gotten all she wanted out of it?
I have just been trying to fit in. Why? To hide myself? Enjoy myself, Mrsha said. I could…
She gazed back at the still image of Dame Eclizza, and then her eyes lingered on the ballroom. On the dancers. She smiled as she gazed back at Erin.
“That’s good advice, Erin. I think I could do that. I may…have something to do.”
Erin grinned with simple pleasure. She nodded and indicated the campfire.
“I’ll—ahem—get back to my own party, then. I won’t call tomorrow or every day. But it was good to catch up—instead of—khak—sorry. I—”
She began coughing. Lyonette waited for her to finish, but Erin thumped her chest. Then she began coughing harder, a deeper cough that worsened until she doubled over. Deeper and deeper until it seemed like there was no way Erin should have that much volume of air in her lungs.
“Erin? Are you okay? Erin?”
Lyonette hurried over, and Erin tried to lift her head.
“Dry throat, I think. I’ve been a bit sick all—”
She coughed again, and this time, the explosive rattling in her chest made Lyonette reach for her reflexively. Erin coughed once more, and then her chest split.
For a moment, just a moment, Lyonette swore she saw Erin split in half. The tiniest gap, too small to even be called a cut opened—and then Erin was on her hands and knees. The coughing receded, but a thin scar seemed to travel from her forehead down.
“Erin!”
“I’m fine. I’m fine…”
It took the [Innkeeper] a moment to actually say the words. She was gasping for air, and suddenly—they were back in the gazebo, and Erin was glancing around.
“Door. I’ve got to go. In case it—I’m okay, Lyonette. Can you help me…?”
“Yes!”
Lyonette picked up Erin and began hauling her towards the door. The [Innkeeper] found her feet after a few steps, but she was weak. Her head was lowered, and Lyonette studied her.
“What is it? Sickness?”
“No. Just…a little crack in my soul. It’s fine. It’s a wound from the battle at sea. Ailendamus might actually—no. I’ll be fine, Lyonette. It’s one of the things I’m going to get checked out in the city.”
Erin managed a smile. Lyonette almost stopped and begged to know more, but it was self-evident what the problem was.
There was a crack in Erin’s soul.
“Oh, Erin…”
Lyonette felt tears coming to her eyes, but Erin was smiling determinedly.
“Ulvama’s not going to be happy. She thought I was all fixed. I’ll get better. Some things don’t heal that fast, I guess, Lyonette.”
She said that despite appearing so changed. Lyonette reached the door and held it open for Erin. The [Innkeeper] turned to her, guilty.
“Now I’ve made you worry. I’m fine, see?”
She straightened, coughed one last time, then thumped her chest to prove the moment was gone. And the [Princess] bet she really was okay…until the next time it happened. Lyonette stood in the doorway, as Erin gave her a worried look, hoping that Lyonette was buying it. The [Princess] just smiled.
“It’s not perfect, Erin. You don’t have to pretend with me. I’m not having the time of my life at this banquet either. But…”
She took Erin’s hands in hers.
“It’s not miserable, is it? It’s a bit better?”
She met Erin’s hazel eyes, and the [Innkeeper] blinked at her, then nodded. She smiled.
“Yeah. A bit better.”
“Then go tell Ulvama, and I won’t worry. Promise you’ll tell her?”
Erin hesitated, then made a face.
“Yeah. I promise.”
Thus relieved, Lyonette let go. She saw Erin sigh, then stand straighter. She rested a hand on the door frame and took a step back.
“I’ll call again soon. Good luck, Lyonette.”
“You too, Erin. You—”
The door closed.
 
——
 
“—too.”
The [Princess] cast around, and then she was back in the ballroom with people shouting at Eclizza, silken chaos abounding, and Ushar was staring at her.
“Eyon? You were a thousand miles away for a moment there.”
“Yes.”
The [Princess] almost laughed at Ushar’s worried expression, then straightened. Fearless of Eclizza, she gazed around, and again, all the tension of the ballroom—such as it had been—her worries, the inconveniences, they fell away.
Erin.
Lyonette hoped Ulvama could help. She hoped that someone could. And if they couldn’t…she would.
Oh, she felt so light when she thought that. The [Princess] turned, and she murmured.
“I feel free, Rusha. What a silly, funny little gathering this is.”
The Thronebearer seemed worried her [Princess] had lost her senses. But Lyonette was just gazing about, and she was reminded of the reason she’d even come here to begin with.
Right, it was always about him. She wondered if this was what he had wanted. The Duke, that was.
Duke Rhisveri was currently crabbing his way across the floor on his hands and knees, keeping below the eyeline of Dame Eclizza, who was having a merry little swordfight with the Drell Knights—some of her own Order had come to her assistance.
It seemed quite entertaining, and Lyonette admired the swordswomanship on display as Rhisveri hissed at her.
“Okay, she’s going to trounce the lot of them in five minutes at most. That’s just enough time—we’ll run to my quarters and get you out of here!”
A man nodded; Baron Regalius, looking a bit ruffled, was running cover, and he seemed ready to be a speedbump in Eclizza’s way, even if it cost him his dress coat. Lyonette just eyed the dishevelled Duke on the floor and then extended a hand.
“Rhisveri, this is more party than I thought I’d be getting myself into.”
“I know, and I’m sorry! I forgot she gets—moody. Listen, I’ll send you back now, with apologies, and—”
Lyonette spoke over him lightly.
“More party and less, Rhisveri. You haven’t even asked me to dance. And I imagine you would rather like to do so to prove you have a romantic life to your friends. Besides, I quite love dancing.”
The Duke’s mouth opened and he twiddled his fingers at Lyonette.
“[Greater Appraisal]. Your skull’s not cracked. What are you on about? We already danced!”
“That wasn’t dancing, that was shuffling in the vague direction. That sounds like dancing. Is that an Alamarian five-step?”
Lyonette nodded at the dance floor where the musicians were, in the best tradition of their class, still playing despite the sword-fight. Actually, the music was going quite well with the clash of swords.
Rhisveri and Regalius exchanged a glance as Ushar checked Lyonette’s head for contusions herself. Rhisveri spluttered.
“I don’t know what in Rhir’s hells a five-step is, but unless you want Eclizza to cut you from head-to-toe—”
“Oh, don’t be silly, Rhisveri. She wouldn’t do that. I rather think she doesn’t approve of me being your date. Is she like your younger sister? Or something similar? I am not going to soil myself if she growls at me, and she’s still a [Knight]. I doubt she’d do more than pull my hair. Now, do you want to dance or should I find another partner?”
Baron Regalius choked as he turned to Rhisveri, but the Duke was just blinking at Lyonette. She held a hand out—then whirled.
“Will anyone dance with a poor lady new to Ailendamus?”
She called out lightly above the sounds of battle behind her, and all the nobility in earshot were so dumbfounded they just gazed at her as if she were loony. But then someone did call out.
“I will dance with such a charming lady, salt’s word on it!”
A dark-skinned young man came striding across the ballroom, dressed in Chandrarian clothing. Rhisveri recognized him on sight and blanched, but Lyonette had never met the man in her life.
“Isomen! What are you doing here?”
Rhisveri seemed to emphasize each word in his question differently, and the young man grinned as he bowed to Lyonette. He knew…her? Or seemed to recognize her when she had no idea whom this was.
“Lord Uziel gave me permission to attend. My companion, Hith, refused, but I couldn’t resist. Such a lovely lady. Do you wish to dance, Miss? Anything you desire, I have a mind to grant.”
He bowed over her hand with such fluidity and poise that Lyonette was surprised. And the man seemed ready to lead her onto the dance floor, but Rhisveri was in the way and shoving him back.
“Get back before someone sees you! Have you not seen our other dignitaries, you idiot? I’ll do it!”
So saying, he yanked Lyonette towards the dance floor, and she glowered.
“I’m so sorry—”
She apologized, but Isomen seemed hugely amused and simply swept her a bow before retreating. Lyonette hissed at Rhisveri as he practically shoved her towards the open space.
“What was that ab—”
“Inndji.”
Rhisveri said it only after a slight ‘pop’ that meant silencing spells, and even then, it took Lyonette a second to realize what he meant. Her eyes widened.
“He’s…?”
“An idiot, and I think he was she last time we talked. The Agelum are just as—argh! What am I doing? Eclizza is going to kill us!”
Rhisveri shot a glance at the Pale Serpent, who had indeed bested her opponents and was tracking them across the floor. Lyonette just waved at her with a relaxed smile.
“Let her, if she really wants to. But I’m just here to dance. I’ll dance with her if I must. Do you actually know how to dance, Duke Rhisveri? This isn’t a waltz you can just memorize.”
He sneered at her as the [Musicians] noticed they had actual dancers and began to play a bit louder. The Duke’s eyes flickered.
“Let me just have my body summon the scroll on this stupid dance and I’ll do it. One dance and then…huh. Um. Wait, is this a half-Elven dance? They get picky about everything. Dead gods, how many steps are in…?”
He developed the same expression as most [Dancers] who were introduced to the five-step for the first time. Lyonette just giggled. She concentrated and remembered the steps that had been drilled into her head by her tutors. She let Rhisveri take her hands in the first step.
“You know, my mother had us learn this dance just so we could do it if we had to, but good protocol is to bow out, because anyone who actually wants to make you dance this is just trying to bully you. Out of all my sisters, I’m the only one who managed it.”
He blinked at her, and then the music began. Rhisveri jerked, took a step—and was left standing, staring at the spot where Lyonette had been a moment ago. She was already sixteen feet to the left and twirling.
Laughing. Her dress changed colors and whirled open as Yietha nudged one of her friends and pointed with a fan. The Duke went running after Lyonette, crimson-faced, and slid across the polished marble floor—he went skidding again as she made a perpendicular right-hand turn and moved the other way.
The Alamarian five-step was a cruel dance. It was meant to embarrass someone who couldn’t keep up, so if one partner could perform the moves and the other couldn’t, the other one would rapidly fall behind—and you could perform your part of it without your partner in most sections. And it was very, very obvious when you didn’t know what you were doing.
As in the Duke’s case, he was chasing after a bobbing, weaving figure whose dress kept changing colors. One second it was a maroon red flashing to a golden Faerie-Flower yellow, the next, it was aquamarine blue and deepening as if ink was poured over it.
That was already eye-catching and funny enough, but the fact that it was Eyon, the focus of Eclizza’s ire, meant it took bare seconds for people to lock onto her. And the [Princess] was…
Concentrating.
Her feet were a blur of steps, and it was an art of a dance. You had to do a complicated cross-step where one foot went behind the other, then in front of it in a pattern taking you left in Begiza IV—one of the intro parts of the dance—and you did that for thirty-two steps, then spun, stepped back like you were gliding—
It was hell on the feet and at such intense speed that you’d turn a heel in a second if you weren’t fit enough. And—Lyonette had to be honest here—
She wasn’t doing it right. 
Oh, it looked good enough, and she heard laughter as Rhisveri chased after her, cursing. But as ‘good’ as Lyonette appeared with him being a foil, she knew it was nothing to how the dance should look.
It was a half-Elven dance made by a dying kingdom with nothing to do than show off its command of the dance floor. She’d seen her [Tutor] doing it at half-speed, and it had been beautiful. Something to delight the eye, if you could pull it off.
This is so embarrassing. I shouldn’t do a dance I haven’t practiced in years! But I wanted to dance like…
Like she had in Oteslia. Sometimes, Lyonette would have terrible dreams about the Daemon of the dead Doombearers, Nokha, or nightmares about any kind of thing from Toren to the Face-Eater Moths.
But some, rare nights, she dreamed she was on that ballroom floor in Oteslia, dancing and feeling like she was flying. Or teaching Antinium how to waltz. She’d wake up, heart beating, and want to do it again—but the inn was never large enough to let her do that with all the tables and chairs down, and she had no one to dance with.
So she tried. Her feet moved faster until she thought they were catching fire, and she was using her Skills.
[Basic Footwork], [Balanced Posture], [Lesser Stamina], [Lesser Strength]—it wasn’t enough. She stumbled at one point when she should have thrown out a leg in a circle and spun, like she were Ceria on polished ice, and her cheeks went red as she saw how many people were watching.
No one was booing or making sounds of disapproval; who would try this dance in their right minds? And she was doing well enough. Of course she was:
This was her [Flawless Attempt].
That alone told Lyonette how demonically hard this dance was. But after six long minutes, she slowed, covered in sweat, and found Duke Rhisveri stumbling after her.
“Damn shoes. I think Ryoka had a point! How do you move in them like…are you wearing heels? How in the hells did you do that?”
He was red-cheeked too, but he hadn’t quit the dance floor. If anything, he’d stayed just close enough to her for her to think he was trying to keep up. Lyonette, panting, heard a scattering of applause and blushed.
“I remember doing that at a quarter-pace and practicing for a month to pull it off! Dead gods, it’s even more nightmarish than I remember.”
“Right, well, let’s leave. You certainly impressed people with that ludicrous dance. Much less the spinning jump.”
Rhisveri croaked, eying her feet. Lyonette just shook her head. Some people like Yietha were applauding her, but she didn’t deserve it.
“The real thing is far more beautiful, Rhisveri. I wish…”
She heard another bar of music and sighed. That was the thing about this kind of place. You couldn’t jaw around all the time—the next song was starting.
“Oh, damn—”
He seized her hands in a panic, but it was a far slower song that Lyonette recognized. It seemed dancing was back in vogue, so people wanted onto the floor. The musicians had obliged them, so Rhisveri swung Lyonette about, and she glanced around.
“No Eclizza?”
“She was watching, but I think she gave up. Ah, she’s over there. See? She’s not going to haul off and hit you.”
Lyonette saw the annoyed Great Knight standing to the side and eyed Rhisveri.
“That’s what I said.”
“Yes, well…you dance passably well. And you fought off her aura. Few people can do that, even if she was taking it easy on you. Well done. This wasn’t my intention, you know.”
Rhisveri stared past Lyonette as they saw more people entering the floor. Regalius winked at Lyonette, and he and Yietha moved past them, dancing in perfect sync. There was a couple who danced privately and practiced!
Lyonette eyed Rhisveri.
“I imagine everyone knew this wasn’t your plan when the sock puppet appeared. Why…him?”
“Rhissy? He inspires the children.”
Rhisveri seemed quite hurt. Lyonette snorted.
“He’s ridiculous. But he is endearing, I suppose. In a horrific way. Mrsha’s too old for him, I hope.”
“Bah, he teaches intelligent lessons and—why am I defending him to you? Listen, we’re dancing. You had an eyeful of Ailendamus, and an earful. We could talk about our gripes, but if you’re not going to write me an angry letter, we can call it here. I think I have made my point to my…friends.”
Rhisveri contrived to glare at some of his noble acquaintances, and Lyonette just sighed at him.
“Rhisveri, you are simultaneously the most selfish and conscientious man I’ve met. And I dated a [Priest].”
He might not have known the class, but Rhisveri snorted.
“Why, yes I am. Thank you for noticing.”
Because that was deliberate, that did make her smile. She continued as they traced the steps of the dance.
“I took this rather ridiculous charge on for you. Have you gotten everything you desire out of tonight?”
He blinked at her, then searched around.
“I suppose we presented ourselves to the throne, went to the Court of Masks—you held your own in terms of elocution, and so on—I can’t imagine any other way you could show off. What else would there be?”
He sounded so thoughtless she poked him like a Goblin. He jumped and hissed at her.
“Stop that! I feel things now.”
“Rhisveri…what is your last name?”
“Zessoprical.”
“Rhisveri Zessoprical, you fool. You’re treating yourself like the ornament at a ball to be fancy and admired, not just me. Did you want anything from this night beyond showing off and keeping your status, or is that the entire point of ‘Duke Rhisveri’?”
She glared at him, disappointed if that were the case, and the Duke hesitated. He opened his mouth, then thought about it. He stared past Lyonette, turning with her in the steps of the dance, then murmured.
“Well…not normally. You see, I don’t engage with these social activities with the expectation of liking anyone. Few people manage a century, let alone a thousand years. If I were here with associates, I’d talk to them. But the ones who knew me best are gone, now. Fithea always told me to find someone else to dance with. So I suppose this is a first.”
Fithea. That name…Lyonette remembered an old Dryad made of stone, and she didn’t think that was a lover. No, something far sadder. She gazed up at the Wyrm and thought that he was somehow lonelier than the Dragon who hung about her inn.
“Really? You’ve never had a partner at such events? Not one you remember?”
He avoided her eyes.
“Why should I? What’s the point? Should I look to be inspired by someone who has lived a mere, what, forty, sixty years at best? I would have said last year that such people can’t surprise me under Level 50. Now…I suppose they can, once or twice.”
He meant her. She smiled and actually felt her cheeks redden at the compliment. The [Princess] turned, walking with arms linked with his, and she gazed at his face.
“What a sad and lonely way to live, Duke Rhisveri.”
That brought him back to himself, and he scowled at her.
“Thank you for noticing, again.”
She shook her head.
“No, I would know. That sounds like how most Calanferian [Princesses] approach balls at some point. Too many, too much the same—no one genuine to talk to. It’s work, not play.”
“Ah, so you do get it.”
“Yes, but I found something to enjoy, or at least, try this evening. I hope that if it’s forced upon you, you will too. With respect to boring company—it’s my experience that everyone can surprise you. It’s just whether they choose to that makes them interesting.”
Step back, bow, and then you could change partners if you so desired. Lyonette and Rhisveri found themselves in a merry group of dancers, young and old, and he eyed her oddly.
“Well, thank you for the opinionated remarks. I shall take them to heart. One more?”
Lyonette was about to demur as she glanced around, because she was noticing she was the center of attention, and she didn’t care for all of it. But then she saw someone dancing past her, to the light intermission music, and froze.
“Rhisveri. Who is that?”
Lyonette’s hand tightened on his arm, and he turned, puzzled.
“Who? Oh, that’s Menorkel and Gilaw. Younger members of, um…Gilaw’s a Great Knight. Menorkel wants to sing. He was throwing a fit about the Singer of Terandria just the other day. Why?”
Her face had drained of all color. Lyonette was gazing up at Menorkel, the Titan in disguise. Of course, even then, he was like…
A half-Giant. Suddenly, she was reminded of Moore. They were nothing alike, of course. Moore had a much kinder face and a beard, and Menorkel was lankier, far, far taller, and yet…his earnest face, the way he shuffled about so timidly, apologizing to the grandly dressed nobles who looked up at him and smiled made Lyonette ache.
Lord Moore was at her inn. It wasn’t just the fact it was another half-Giant that suddenly invoked the Moore she had known in every memory and made her feel as though he was just out of sight if she turned her head. It was a desire. A compulsion that would never come true.
She wished Moore could be here. Could meet this shy youngster, someone just as out-of-place and timid as he was, and—would they be friends? Would he come over and be the adult, the one who had walked this lonely path, and would that boy’s face light up to see someone like him?
Lyonette realized why the blow to her was complete; Menorkel was hiding something in the crook of his arm, which he’d used to both fend off the need for socialization and while away the long banquet.
A book. She wished Moore had retired and become a librarian. She wished she could have shown him Calanfer’s library and her beloved half-Elf mentor and her fox. And then Lyonette realized she hadn’t thought of home in so long and remembered the people who she had missed.
Mexte. Lorentha. I haven’t written them one letter. They would have been worried.
Like an Earther far from their world, Lyonette had just…forgot, that selfish girl who thought no one would care about her.
It all hit her at once and left her clutching her heart, chest heaving, eyes over-bright. Moore…Lyonette felt faint. She saw Rhisveri glance at her, and the Wyrm noticed her sudden change in complexion. He looked around for a chair, but one appeared for her as she sat; Dame Ushar had produced it from her bag of holding.
“Lyonette, are you well? Damn, was it the food? Do you need water?”
“I’m—I’m fine. My apologies, Rhisveri. I just felt faint when I saw.”
Gilaw and Menorkel were striding over. Rhisveri turned, and he flapped his arms at them as they drew closer, concerned.
“Menorkel, Gilaw, shoo! I think Miss Eyon is worried you’ll step on her.”
“Hurtful, Duke Rhisveri!”
Menorkel shot back, and Gilaw cawed rudely, but they saw Lyonette’s face and respectfully stepped away. She waved her arms, urgently, not wanting them to think she was scared of Menorkel’s height.
“It’s not that. He just reminds me of a friend. A half-Giant. Just let me sit—is there anything to drink? Water?”
Rhisveri opened his mouth for another remark, and then saw how pale Lyonette was. Without a word, he snapped a finger and a glass of it floated over. He murmured as he handed it to her and she took a gulp, which helped.
“Who? Someone from the palace? The other palace…?”
“Yes. No. He was just—”
Then she was sitting there, trembling, as he told Gilaw to get her a cup of water, and she had to explain how it was just Moore. Moore, the half-Giant of the Halfseekers, who had died at Liscor’s gates.
She hadn’t even been there when it happened, just heard of it. Brave Moore and Halrac.
Halrac, standing at the exit, bow in hand, challenging Kasigna with the knowledge of fate shining in his eyes. Halrac the Grim.
Ah, and then she was back in the depths of her sadness, tears leaking from her eyes. The Duke knelt there, listening. Menorkel sat too, taller than everyone else, blocking out the ballroom from view, eyes wide. And the Wyrm?
He didn’t mock her. He just watched as Lyonette wiped at her eyes and accepted a handkerchief from Ushar and a glass of water from Gilaw.
“I’m sorry. I—and things were going so well tonight.”
She sniffed, and the Duke raised his eyebrows.
“Grief is an acceptable response to death. Better than if you were smiling all the time. We have a name for such people in Ailendamus. Psychopaths. Or Lucifen.”
Menorkel tried not to laugh at that. He covered his mouth with his hand and bent to whisper.
“I’m entirely sorry if I distressed you, Miss Eyon.”
Oh, and he was kind, like Moore. Lyonette wiped her eyes and shook her head.
“I should apologize, Menorkel! You did nothing wrong. It’s good to meet another half-Giant!”
“Ah, well, you should meet Dame Merilla. I could get her for you?”
Menorkel offered, and Lyonette refused politely. It was Rhisveri’s turn to sit there for a moment and shake his head.
“The palace was a painful place. Filled with…opportunity. If only it had been done better. But one is a miracle.”
That was all he said as he peered towards Eclizza, and Lyonette nodded. Menorkel and Gilaw gazed at Rhisveri, and he studied Lyonette’s hands. Then patted them awkwardly.
“Huh. I suppose there is one last thing to do that I would like. Stay there. If I make a fool of myself, just pretend you don’t know me.”
So saying, the Duke of Ailendamus stood, swiped the cup of water from Lyonette, and walked into the center of the ballroom as the dancers broke for another song. Lyonette peered at him and saw the Duke snag a teaspoon from a used tray of dishes.
Dame Eclizza started from where she was still mad-dogging Lyonette. The Great Knight seemed ready to harass Lyonette again, but like everyone else, she focused on Rhisveri.
He stood in the center of the room and calmly, loudly, clanged his cup with the teaspoon. The metal-on-metal violence was loud—he tossed the deformed teaspoon to the ground as everyone turned to him.
“Excuse me. I have a speech to give. Exalted guests, friends of Ailendamus, king and countrymen, shut up and listen…please.”
Oh, dead gods, a speech. The thing everyone wanted to hear the most at a time like this when they were actually enjoying themselves. Especially from Rhisveri. The man stood, casting around the vast room, and he projected his voice as he spoke. His face was relatively blank as he glanced at Lyonette.
“This isn’t a sanctioned speech by my royal brother. Just something I would like to say as the Duke. We are gathered here to celebrate the return of our Great Knight, the Pale Serpent, Dame Eclizza. In our dark hour, she returns, and no one is happier than I.”
“Hear, hear!”
Several people shouted, perhaps hoping that this was the entire speech, but Rhisveri ignored them. He gazed at Eclizza, who hadn’t moved and seemed to project hatred at him for putting her in the center of attention. But then the blank-faced man just searched around, and again, Lyonette thought he met her eyes.
“Victory in defeat. And it was a defeat. Perhaps not in the grand scheme of the war, which goes on, but we have lost…friends. Soldiers. [Knights]. They were someone’s lovers, friends, sons, daughters. Mother. On this day, I remember Magistrate Fithea, who was lost in an attack on the palace. And the Great General of Ailendamus, Dioname.”
He swallowed as a sudden silence fell over the room. People began reaching for actual cups, realizing this was not the triumphal speech they expected from Rhisveri. Yet his face hadn’t changed. He spoke now, staring at his shoes.
“Few things would give me any joy in life, but seeing them return would be worth all the treasures I possess. For I am a greedy enough man. For Fithea or Dioname…or Dame Eclizza, that is worth a kingdom’s treasures. So I am grateful.”
He regarded the Great Knight, and then to Lyonette, and then she detected a wobble in his voice. Rhisveri whispered.
“Grateful. And I will be and remember it, I swear, this great favor that…fate bestowed upon me. Even if I wish they could all return. But that, I suppose, is how grief works. For it to hurt, you have to know there was a world that could be otherwise. You have to dream of being whole to understand what it is like to be sundered and never whole again. So, thank you. I do not mean to sound ungrateful.”
His throat worked, and his eyes were glimmering. He turned to Eclizza.
“Thank you. I think they would agree, if they could hear it. Fithea, Dioname. Children should live longer than the old. So, to the Great Knight of Ailendamus. May she live at least a thousand years.”
He lifted the cup higher and drank. When he lowered the goblet, it seemed as though he intended on refilling it. Tears ran from his eyes and into his pointed beard, which dripped into the cup. He stood in silence, in the center of the room, until someone began applauding.
It was, of course, Baron Regalius, but the man only preceded the applause a second, and then the room was filled with cheers and similar toasts. Lyonette herself found a cup on a platter and raised it. Duke Rhisveri didn’t seem to understand why she toasted him. He just stared ahead until the Great Knight moved.
She took one step forwards, towards him, and bowed, holding her arm across her chest. A single bow, and his eyes never left her, and hers him. Then, and only then, did Rhisveri brush at his eyes as if confused to know why he was crying and stomp away from the ballroom.
“Oh. That…I think that, in a moment, did more for your reputation than you could dream, you silly man. More than the rest of the night.”
Lyonette whispered, and she heard a sniff, then a honking sound, which was Gilaw blowing her nose. Menorkel just gave her a wide-eyed stare.
“I’ve never seen Rhisveri cry. Did you do that?”
“Me? No. I’m just his date for a night.”
She smiled at the young man, and Menorkel eyed her before remarking gravely—
“He’s never had one of those either.”
What could Lyonette say to that? She stared ahead, and as Rhisveri spoke to Eclizza and the music began again, Lyonette had a sudden vision. It was of Moore, Halrac, Jelaqua, and Ulinde laughing at a table in The Wandering Inn.
It was Brunkr grinning as he was served a cake, and Seve-Alrelious and Erek sitting in the common room. It was like Erin’s garden of statues, but instead of tearing her to pieces…it just made Lyonette think of Tessa.
“Ah, I have to go back soon. I have things to do. More memories to make.”
She wiped at her eyes, delicately, and turned to Ushar. Lyonette smiled, then began to stand. Menorkel seemed wistful.
“Are you sure, Miss Eyon? I know it is late, but I wanted to meet the woman who made Duke Rhisveri come to a banquet! Everyone is curious about you. Even Lady Paterghost likes you, and she likes no one!”
Gilaw made a cawing sound, and Lyonette had to admit she was mightily curious to know who these other immortals were. But she wanted to see her daughter.
“Maybe another time, Menorkel?”
If Rhisveri needs another banquet, maybe? It wasn’t the worst thought, though she was amazed she was even thinking it. Menorkel was nodding when someone leaned over.
“Ah, Miss Eyonlett. Did I hear you right? You are leaving? I had hoped to introduce myself before the night was over. May I just have a single word before you leave?”
A sharply-dressed woman in a dark uniform with gold and brass on it stopped with drink in hand, and Lyonette turned.
“Oh of course, Miss…?”
The woman leaned over the table to shake Lyonette’s hand. She smiled, then yanked Lyonette close.
“Brazier Lady Linvene. You are marked, Princess Lyonette. I am amazed you had the gall to appear tonight. But know that you are marked, and retribution shall come the sooner for this.”
Lyonette stiffened as the hand crushed hers, and Ushar’s arm was suddenly between her and the [Lady]. She recognized the sigil on the woman’s breast belatedly, and the color scheme fell into place.
“The Blighted Kingdom’s emissary in Ailendamus?”
She should have known Ailendamus would have one! The Blighted Kingdom had diplomats in every major kingdom, and at this function—
“Let go of Miss Eyon, please.”
Ushar warned the Brazier Lady, but Linvene let go without fuss.
“Your inn survived hellfire, but it has a shadow, and the Blighted Kingdom has marked it. That is your only warning, Princess. Leave it or watch it and all those within burn.”
Lyonette knew that Erin had made enemies, but such an open declaration of war still chilled her. At a gathering like this, no less! She lowered her voice.
“I’m shocked that a single inn merits the wrath of an entire kingdom, let alone one so important as the Blighted Kingdom. Do you intend to raze it and everyone in it to the ground? We have not been your foes. Guests, and our [Innkeeper], yes, but there are children within! Leave us out of whatever revenge you have planned.”
“Goblin Kings do not arise from nothing. You are warned.”
The woman was studying Lyonette and Ushar up and down, her eyes flinty. She glanced to one side and stepped back.
“And I see I am not the only one.”
“Good evening to you! Lady Eyon, is it? And Brazier Lady Linvene. I had waited for the good Duke to step away. A lovely speech about the fallen, isn’t it? I am [Diplomat] Ke’len of Erribathe. In the name of the Kingdom of Myths, I, too, would like to convey that we do not forget.”
The Dwarf who appeared at the table had runes braided into his beard and a far more relaxed attitude than the emissary of Rhir, and he put his cup on the table and treated Lyonette to a smile. She exhaled, loudly.
“One would think my disguises needed work. Or that emissaries would be good enough not to cause a fuss, wouldn’t they, Ushar?”
The Thronebearer nodded without a word as she watched the two diplomats gazing at her.
“We are not the only ones, Princess. You are marked from Rhir’s hell to the gates of Roshal. This is no time to enjoy your repast.”
The Brazier Lady warned Lyonette, though Ke’len’s lips twisted at the mention of Roshal. Lyonette sat very still for a moment, then exhaled. She leaned back over the table, and if the two had thought she was going to quail—she met Brazier Lady Linvene’s eyes.
“As far as I recall, Roshal is still mostly dust. Have they or the Blighted Kingdom not learned the lesson of picking the wrong fights? Because I believe a reminder was delivered—twice.”
She enjoyed watching the blood drain out of Linvene’s face. The Dwarf [Diplomat] just glanced sharply between Lyonette and Linvene, clearly wondering what that meant. The Brazier Lady’s fist tightened on her goblet, and she was about to snap back when someone reached down.
“Excuse me. I believe you are being rude to Rhisveri’s guest.”
Menorkel’s finger was big enough to push Linvene away from Lyonette. She recoiled, then spoke.
“Sir half-Giant. I was merely—”
“You were leaving. Miss Eyon is a guest of Ailendamus, and you two are being impolite.”
Menorkel frowned at the two of them from above, and when both hesitated, the shorter woman folded her arms.
“Gilaw agrees, and she’s a Great Knight. Go away.”
In the face of a Great Knight of Ailendamus, both Dwarf and Human had to bow and retreat. Menorkel turned to Lyonette and grew anxious.
“Are you alright? That sounded bad.”
“It was just a threat. A…known threat.”
Lyonette exhaled and began to rise. It seemed that this party had everything from joys to drama, sadness and reminders of the reality of her situation. Yet she refused to feel bad or worried. She smiled at Menorkel.
“I should be going, though. I’m sorry, but it really is late.”
Of course, it was never that easy to just leave. Rhisveri had to be told, but he was surrounded by people, and you had to pay your respects to the crown, especially since Lyonette had met with both of them. And then Regalius and Yietha and the others were trying to get her to stay and remark on everything.
“I saw the Brazier Lady storming away, Miss Eyon. Did she have words with you? She can be tactless when it comes to Rhir’s defense…”
“You must stay a bit longer! I have so many questions! The dancing has begun again, and you could have another shot at the five-step—”
Queen Oiena herself called out.
“Miss Eyon! Are you truly going? I almost but feel that you would benefit from a night in the palace!”
To that, everyone agreed Lyonette should stay, but the [Princess] was adamant. She was trying to refuse Queen Oiena as politely as possible.
“Your Majesty, I must go. I have little ones to attend to.”
Oiena did a double-take, then shot a glance at her husband.
“Little ones? At your age? Why then, you must go, of course! But an escort at this hour is essential…where’s Rhisveri? He should see you back home.”
At last, Rhisveri appeared, and with him, the final obstacle of the night. Dame Eclizza cut through the crowd, and even Queen Oiena was wary as she held up a hand.
“Dame Eclizza, it is late, and with respect to your quarrel with Miss Eyon, I insist on peace.”
“Peace, Your Majesty. As you will it.”
Eclizza bowed and lifted her head without looking away from Lyonette. The [Princess] stepped forwards warily and nodded to Eclizza.
“I cannot help but feel that we have gotten off on the wrong foot, Dame Eclizza. It is a shame, because I hope we are on the same side in some respects.”
The [Knight] scrutinized Lyonette up and down, and then she walked forwards, and her aura engulfed Lyonette again, but like wet gauze, not an attack. A privacy effect.
“We have been on the same side. But I do not trust you, Miss ‘Eyon’. I have returned and beheld my weakness and my kingdom’s weakness, and you come as a reminder of change. An omen of the greatest danger I have ever beheld. I do not know you, and more importantly, I have no measure of you. Should I welcome you with open arms?”
That was very fair, and yet, Lyonette still thought they were missing something. She turned to Rhisveri, and the Wyrm shifted from foot to foot.
“Er—time to go? It was a productive night, all things considered. Can you ask for better than that?”
Threats and publicity. A battle with a [Princess]—Lyonette shot a glance at Princess Ozena and realized she was throwing up into a waste basket, still suffering the effects of a full aura clash with Eclizza. The [Princess] gazed about and saw the Brazier Lady and Dwarven Emissary watching her.
And she was sad.
She was upset.
She was enjoying herself.
She was afraid for the future, but mostly for Erin.
—Lyonette knew what she had to do. She turned to Ushar, who was wearing Queen Marquin’s very armor, and the [Princess] gazed at Rhisveri, then looked around at Queen Oiena, Menorkel, Regalius, and realized she wasn’t done.
Show them…the [Princess] reached out and took Rhisveri’s hand. He blinked at it stupidly, and the [Princess] turned.
“Your Majesty, may I make one small request of you before I depart? I think that if this is a night to be enjoyed, there is one last thing I must try.”
“Oh, and what would that be?”
Queen Oiena leaned forwards with an interested smile, and Lyonette took a breath and felt her heart race. She gazed into Eclizza’s visor as the Pale Serpent tensed, and she smiled.
“Why…the Alamarian five-step. Crossing the Dwarven Mountains, I believe the song is. Would you give me one last chance to perform it?”
Of all the things…Oiena blinked, and Eclizza’s helmet tilted. The [Queen] hesitated.
“I can certainly give you the song, and I doubt anyone else would join you, but are you sure? It seems to me it’s all risk and little gain.”
Lyonette laughed in the confused [Queen]’s face. She explained, kind.
“It’s for none of my gain, Your Majesty. It’s simply because I want to try. Wonder for wonder’s sake. I will never know if I can if I do not try. I will never succeed if I’m not willing to humiliate myself. Besides, the Great Knight Eclizza wishes to know who I am? I’m someone who wishes to dare it.”
She turned to Eclizza and then to Rhisveri.
“And I rather think the fine Duke might be a good partner—if he’s willing to risk his sterling reputation?”
He gazed down at her, then adjusted his suit huffily.
“Bah, that sounds like a challenge. And I never back away from those.”
The Queen of Ailendamus was from Gura and loved such things, so she clapped her hands and laughed, then gave the orders. This time, the [Musicians] actually went silent when they heard that one of the last songs of the night would be the devilish song. But they began playing with twice a will—not just for the mysterious Eyon.
If you’re gonna go down, go down blazing like a [Fireball]. Lyonette began limbering up discreetly as people gathered around. Rhisveri did the same, muttering.
“I’d better memorize this thing fully. Don’t look at me like that Eclizza. She wants to dance? I’m not the one who’ll fall flat on my face!”
It was Regalius who drew Lyonette aside, nervous.
“Miss Eyon, are you sure about this? Every eye is upon you, and with respect to your skills, this is a dance that I doubt you could do better on a second try.”
She smiled at him.
“I know that, but I have to try. At worst, I’ll twist my ankle, and my daughter will die of laughter.”
Which was a positive! Regalius’ lips twitched, and he gave her a wondering look.
“So you do have a daughter?”
She made no reply, and Yietha murmured.
“But you used your best Skill! At least, I think I recognized you using one, didn’t you?”
[Flawless Attempt] was indeed still on cooldown. Lyonette shook her head.
“I have one last one.”
“It had better be a good one. Everyone is watching—I rather fear they’re too interested in your success, Miss Eyon.”
Queen Oiena warned them as she swept over, and Lyonette felt a butterfly fluttering in her stomach as she realized everyone was watching. The ballroom was packed with people, and no one was in the center. They were all waiting…for her.
“Oh dear. I thought someone would dance or be busy?”
“For the woman fighting with Great Knight Eclizza? And I think some of those diplomats added to the fire. I shall have words with them—but the damage is done. Miss Eyon, you can bow out. There is embarrassing yourself to be daring and ridicule.”
The Queen was offering her one last chance, but the [Princess] just took a breath. She stretched out her ankles, then turned. She walked towards the center of the room; Rhisveri was already in the middle, arms folded. She gave the Wyrm this: even when he was being an idiot, he could do it unashamedly.
“I should have asked him to dress up as Rhissy. Either way, it would make the dance better.”
She whispered to Oiena, and the [Queen] nearly performed a Wineblaster as she snorted. She gave Lyonette a genuinely admiring eye.
“My dear, I confess, I am finding myself your unwitting admirer. Were you always like this?”
Lyonette beamed at Queen Oiena, and she stopped by a table.
“No, it’s only been the last two years that made me like this. Someday, Your Majesty, I’d like to tell you all about it. Now, you gave me excellent hospitality and advice.”
“Oh, I did no such thing.”
Lyonette picked something up from the table and turned to the [Queen]. She showed Oiena what she had.
“But you did! So, Your Majesty, whether I do make myself the greatest buffoon in Ailendamus’ history or not—I hope you will respect the attempt.”
Every eye upon her, the [Princess] lifted what was in her hands, and Oiena gasped as she realized what Lyonette was doing. Then she actually cheered, and Regalius pointed with a finger that drew every eye, that fanciful [Baron of Ceremonies]. Yietha added in a stage whisper, setting Lyonette up. Teammates she had never known she had.
“The dice!”
The [Princess] had a pair of golden dice from the gambling table in hand. She turned, and the Skill she’d never used flashed into her mind. A reward for betting the treasures of kingdoms in a single wild night.
She threw the dice as hard as she could across the room, and the well-dressed men, women, and [Knights] took cover as a pair of flashing dice flew across the floor. Lyonette was running the moment she threw them, and the music was rising as she jumped and slid across the floor, fifty feet, towards the surprised Duke.
[The Gambler’s Dice]. One of the gold-painted dice bounced off of Hydra-Knight Yoriven’s helmet and spun, glittering on the floor. Another landed in High Magus Telim’s cup, and he peered down into it, then raised his goblet and drank the wine down as he toasted the [Princess].
And the [Princess]? She felt a wild, nervous energy surging through her body and wondered if it was luck or adrenaline. She grabbed one of Rhisveri’s arms and saw the same panicked expression on his face. He gazed at her, open-mouthed, and she breathed.
“Surprised by us mere mortals yet, Your Grace?”
Then she was sixteen feet left, spinning, and he was face-to-face with her as they whirled in a figure-eight. The gasp filled the room, and they caught themselves in the first move, eyes wide. He managed to reply—
“Well, anything you can do…”
 
——
 
Dame Ushar was recording the entire thing from the beginning. Of course, later, people would find the recording and replay it and there would be a to-do about the identity of the mysterious dancer.
People would tout it as an example of the famous five-step dance performed in the modern age, but they’d never have the perfect angle. Because wouldn’t you know it, a strange [Knight] in Dragonchallenger plate armor was always in the right spot, recording it.
For posterity. And her mother. The Thronebearer saw Lyonette and Rhisveri flash past her and cover a hundred paces in ten seconds. They were flying. And, it seemed to the Thronebearer…
 
——
 
“Glowing?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was up late, and he had a cup of goat’s milk mostly unfinished in one claw. He’d not been happy despite all the explanations about where Lyonette had gone and had been glowering at the scrying orb all night.
He had dark suspicions of this ‘Duke Rhisveri’s’ intentions; he didn’t see why Mrsha and Nanette liked him. He’d probably bought them off; he seemed like an arrogant blowhard. But his speech had seemed genuine. And now—this?
Ilvriss knew Lyonette could dance. Ancestors, he’d danced with her himself, but this was dancing taken to a level that made Ilvriss’ calves hurt just watching. But the [Princess] was doing it, and the Duke was keeping up!
It had to be a Skill, but it was no less impressive for all that. What made Ilvriss sit up and a snoozing Mrsha open her eyes was—
“She’s glowing.”
At first, Ilvriss thought it was his imagination, but as Lyonette and Rhisveri shot across the floor and slid the last ten paces, they glowed. And it seemed to Ilvriss that the light pulsed off them.
A familiar glow. Like the light of a certain [Innkeeper]’s magical fire, except light, flashing over their audience. It bathed the room in colors as the two turned, and Ilvriss shaded his eyes.
“What is that…?”
He’d seen this before. He swore he had. At Oteslia. Only this was the Skill born of that moment. He caught Lyonette’s face, concentrating, breathless, and when it flashed towards him—
A beam of light streaked from the scrying orb, hit Ilvriss in the chest, and knocked him out of his chair.
“Ilvriss!”
Nanette shouted, and Mrsha waved a card.
Drake down! Drake down! Take cover! Mom’s shooting lasers!
More beams of light flashed out of the scrying orb, and the rest of the inn did take cover, aside from Asgra, who was standing on a table for a better view. A beam of purple light hit her in the chest.
“Argh! I’m dying! I’m—”
The Cave Goblin writhed around on the floor and then felt at her chest as Ilvriss sat up. Asgra poked at her uniform, which had been all smutched up and slightly ragged from wear. It was pristine, warm, and clean as could be.
Ilvriss glanced down at his clawed hands and saw the blisters under his scales vanishing. He looked up, and Mrsha gasped.
That’s Mom’s Skill! Her [Dance of Blessings]! She’s never used that either!
That was it! The [Princess] was throwing off light which washed over the cheering crowd, and it touched individuals and knocked them down. Blessings delivered like a flying brick to the face. They sat up, minor injuries healed, sicknesses pushed away, or just—changed in ways that made them smile.
A laughing young woman who rose with beautiful, glittering topaz-colored hair, faintly translucent. An older man who felt a slipped disc unslip—a Hydra Knight who remembered where he’d left the keys to his personal storage chest.
Laughter and tiny miracles coming off the whirling [Princess] smiling fit to burst. Ilvriss sat himself back down and watched as Lyonette flew across the floor. After a moment, he turned.
“It’s a good dance. Well, she is doing most of the work.”
Mrsha just turned to him and, after a moment, patted Ilvriss on the hand. Then she went back to watching.
Wall Lord Ilvriss couldn’t understand why Mrsha was smiling so contentedly. He bristled; his tail lashed, and he began to bark more comments until he caught sight of something. His reflection in a mirror. The man recognized that supercilious expression of outrage and wounded pride, and because it was so familiar, he stopped. And then he wondered why he was wearing his old face.
In silence, the Wall Lord sat a moment and thought until he was as introspective as the child beside him. After a while, he did murmur.
“She’s enjoying herself, isn’t she?”
Then, Mrsha turned and nodded and smiled, and Ilvriss took a drink from his cup.
“Ah, very good, then.”
He felt like the approving smile coming from Mrsha was a strange thing, but fit the child’s face. Ilvriss just wondered what they were teaching her in that school in Liscor. Then he wondered if he could enroll his officers and fellow Wall Lords there for a week.
Only then, after the applause, after the panting [Princess] hugged the surprised Duke and kissed him on the cheek…
Then Lyonette went back home.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical took little credit for the dance afterwards. He just breathed in and out, mopped at his forehead with a handkerchief, and demurred, which was so uncharacteristic of him that everyone thought the wrong thing.
When he sidled over to Sophridel, Paxere, Menorkel, Paterghost and the other immortals, the Wyrm just sniffed at them.
“I was following along with the actual choreography the entire time. That’s not difficult. She did it according to memory.”
He nodded at the breathless [Princess] being congratulated by all and sundry. She still seemed to be giving off faint motes of light. Her [Dance of Blessings].
“Besides. It wasn’t a perfect dance. It could have been done better. She missed a half-step in the fourth pattern, and the musicians definitely slowed down from the original pacing.”
It was amazing how his mouth kept working, sometimes divorced from his brain. Well, the Wyrm had several. When no one said a word, Rhisveri just shoved his hands into his pockets.
“That’s the power of those who hold classes. They get to shine, briefly.”
Then he saw the [Princess]’ head turn his way and stepped forwards to the gathering around her. And they did gather, nobles of Ailendamus, [Knights], even the young Princess Oesca, holding her mother’s hand and asking Lyonette if she could ever dance like that. To which the [Princess] merely replied with a huge smile.
“If you practice, Your Highness, anything is possible. But you must try hard.”
“I try hard on lots of things!”
Oesca protested loudly, and there were chuckles, but Lyonette fixed her with a serious gaze.
“Do you try hard for a person or a [Princess]?”
Oesca’s face grew confused, and her mother blinked, but Lyonette went on in a voice that was calm, level, and understanding.
“That dance is hard for anyone, Princess Oesca. There are no favors, nor Skills, that can let you do it properly without effort. So if you really, truly want to learn it, you must try as hard as you can. The same with backflips like the Wind Runner.”
It struck the girl, and she stumbled a bit, or perhaps it was just the late hour. Oesca replied faintly, gazing into Lyonette’s face with a sudden solemness.
“Oh. I think I understand. Thank you, Miss L—Eyon.”
The little girl looked like she had a million questions to ask. She hopped from one little, glittering shoe to the other, then put her hands in her dress. She stood on her tiptoes and whispered into Lyonette’s ear.
“I was wondering if you think—if you think Lord Sammial Veltras was okay? And, um, if you think Gnolls would like me? I’ve met a few, but they’re all adults. I’ve always wanted to meet a Doombearer.”
The [Princess] blinked and then whispered back.
“I think Sammial is doing just fine, though he could use a friend or two who’s sensible. As for little Gnoll girls, I hope they’d all like you if you met, but I can’t guarantee that. You have to do your best to make friends, don’t you? Being a [Princess] doesn’t impress Gnolls that much, so you have to try extra hard. [Witches] too.”
“[Witches]?”
Oesca’s voice rose in a nervous, excited exclamation, and her mother raised her brows. Everyone tried to edge forwards, but before the girl could ask more, someone brushed past her.
“Oh no, here we go again. Dame Knight, this isn’t the time for—”
Someone actually tried to stop Dame Eclizza this time, but she simply halted in front of Lyonette and her aura blasted outwards. Lyonette jumped as it shoved everyone back, even Oesca. A sphere of pale green venom encircled her, and she braced—but she realized this wasn’t an offensive tactic.
A bubble of isolation formed around them, a natural privacy field—if not so subtle. The Great Knight folded her arms, then flipped her visor up.
Her face under her armor was too-pale, devoid of sunlight, and her eyes were likewise pale. Lyonette realized how the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus got her name. Another kind of cruel joke like the Titan’s nickname. Dead gods, she hoped no one ever named her.
She was relieved that these eyes weren’t trying to run her through. Rather, Dame Eclizza spoke as a few people banged on the aura-barrier and then waved their singed hands in agony.
“I thought you were well-made, Princess Lyonette du Marquin. But you’ve risen above your mere craftsmanship. Enough to dance with a Wyrm and not embarrass each other. I still resent your presence, but don’t doubt, now, that you may bring something to Ailendamus for all you take.”
The [Princess] scowled at Dame Eclizza, and to the horror of all watching, including the Duke and monarchs, she strode over and poked Eclizza a few times in the chestplate.
“Is that all this was? I wasn’t ‘good enough’ to be his company? He told you that he was so desperate for a date he teleported me out of my inn! If you were so concerned, you could have gone with him, or one of your Order! Though I can see how you would have avoided that!”
Eclizza’s eyes flicked to Duke Rhisveri, who was signing emphatically at her, and then to Lyonette—then down at her feet.
“That would not have been appropriate. I am his sword and champion. I would die for him and Ailendamus. I would be his…lover, if I fit. Not his doll to play with.”
Lyonette’s mouth was open, about to spit another furious condemnation. She closed it hurriedly.
“Oh. Oh my. I didn’t mean to—”
The visor slid shut, as if this gap into Eclizza’s soul was too much. She turned to stare past Lyonette, at Dame Ushar.
“Jealousy befits a Wyrm’s kingdom. Besides which, this is a dance that has been done before. Other of his mortal champions—all of them—have walked this line. I am but the last to learn the lesson. The only one living. It was my jealousy which prompted me to challenge you. But also…the question of whether you were just cost. I researched The Wandering Inn. It is folly to assume you will not call in your debts again. If you can give nothing to the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, why should we entertain you?”
That was a logical counterpoint, and Lyonette nodded. She gestured lamely at the dance floor.
“I don’t know if that qualifies. But in terms of gold and other factors, I do believe I can help. My boon is still working on Rhisveri.”
Again, Eclizza gazed at Lyonette, purely surprised.
“You put a boon on a Wyrm? That is…thought to be impossible. Though how many royals have ever tried it or Wyrms let it happen?”
Lyonette thought a smile flashed over Eclizza’s face, but the helmet obviously didn’t let her see. Then the Great Knight shrugged.
“I have made my decision. We shall not necessarily be pleasant. Perhaps we shall clash again. It is good practice for you.”
“Please, no. I feel like I might puke if I did it again.”
“We must level. That is the only way to keep up with them.”
The Great Knight nodded at Lady Paterghost, Menorkel, and the immortals in the audience. She whirled on her heel abruptly.
“I shall bid you goodnight with the assumption we are allies in the true sense of the word. Though…how much gold could your inn give Ailendamus?”
She turned her head, clearly skeptical, and Lyonette coughed into one fist.
“It’s more of a loan, and it is more than the Duke owed. There was a gambling night, which I will admit goaded his pride…I could prepare the ledger, but I believe it’s upwards of four million gold coins lent? We’re not pursuing any repayment at the moment.”
The Great Knight froze, and when her head cricked around, Rhisveri stopped signing and began to appear faintly worried.
“I see I have more words to speak to my liege. Well done, again. An ally with teeth. Taimaguros is powerful, but dull. Anything…else?”
She turned to Lyonette, waiting. And the [Princess] had a sudden thought, an urgent one. She was weary to death, emotionally exhausted, and ecstatic as well. But the look of Eclizza, standing there, a dark shadow to her master, provoked a kind of similarity in her mind.
Black armor…like scales.
“I—yes! Yes, I have something crucial to do when I get back. This dratted evening has put me behind. But Dame Eclizza, you’re a master of poisons, surely. Do you know, um, how to deal with someone suffering from a drug addiction? I intend to bring her back, but it is no use without treatment and help. And what we had to help her with no longer exists.”
The Faerie Flower medicine was gone. Eclizza glanced back at Lyonette, again seeming to be surprised that the [Princess] had brought something up that the Great Knight had never expected of her. She replied fluidly as she switched back to facing Lyonette, hand on her bag of holding.
“If it is a mere addiction, Duke Rhisveri himself could cast [Restoration] and solve the physical effects of it. The mind is harder—or even Dame Chorisa could mix an antidote to most drugs. This is a matter for [Thought Healers]. Ailendamus has enough. Also, it is not a cure-all situation, spells aside. Which drugs?”
“Um…all of them?”
The Great Knight stared at Lyonette like she was an idiot.
“Are you a fool in this or do you just not know?”
“No, I resent that! I mean it! She’s a Named-rank adventurer, and I do believe she’s tried every drug under the sun! Her name is Tessa, or Shriekblade, and—”
Eclizza nodded once and glanced down at Lyonette’s feet before sweeping her gaze up and down the [Princess]’ body. Lyonette reflexively tried to shield herself, as if she was naked, and she didn’t know why until Eclizza spoke.
“Ah. Once again I underestimate the foe. That you aren’t carrying a hidden dagger or blade…you should. Queen Oiena carries one on her inside thigh, and her daughters and sons have a blade on them they never take off.”
“Thank you for the advice. Tessa?”
The Great Knight paused, then nodded.
“Procure me a list of what she took or is likely to have taken. It sounds…interesting. She could have killed herself or done permanent damage to her body long ago, but if she’s Named-rank, perhaps not. I have tried every drug I have ever encountered and come up with countermeasures for them all. I will assist though I will not teleport to Izril without greater cause. Is that all?”
Everyone was watching the standoff between the [Princess] and [Knight], and from the outsiders’ perspective, it seemed like they weren’t fighting. Just…talking? What did Eclizza turning away, Lyonette jumping and covering herself up mean? They kept glancing at Duke Rhisveri, who was trying to play it cool and looking increasingly nervous, as a man who knew he had things to be embarrassed by might when two people who knew him were conversing.
The final thing the [Princess] did was hesitate, scuff a foot on the ground, and then make a writing gesture on her palm. The Great Knight stared, then her aura collapsed. Lyonette chased after her.
“Just one autograph, Great Knight? Well, two—it’s not for me! I’m sure there are two fans of yours, and if not them—!”
 
——
 
What a strange [Princess]. King Itorin II had never, ever seen Dame Eclizza sign an autograph even when it had been the pitch of fashion. He leaned over to one of the people sitting with him.
“Knight Commander Forcel, has Dame Eclizza ever signed an autograph?”
The equally-fascinated Hydra Knight shook his head.
“Never once in all the time I have known her. No, wait, I tell a lie. She once signed her emblem into an enemy [Knight]’s helmet. With her finger. But never—that.”
The [Princess] bowed to the Great Knight, who threw up a hand in a backwards wave as she strode away. And then she was right there. In the center of attention as if it was natural to her. More than just a royal, she turned, and King Itorin II wondered—
They cannot all be like this, the [Princesses] of Calanfer. It reminded him almost like that new treat everyone ate while watching the scrying orbs. Popped corn. As if someone had compressed all this potential and zest for life into a tiny, miserable shell. And when the right pressure and heat baked them, they exploded outwards.
He decided he liked that analogy. Popped corn [Princesses]. He wondered if it had been on purpose. If so, he didn’t really want to meet the Queen of Calanfer, even if they ever took Calanfer.
 
——
 
Lyonette tucked Dame Eclizza’s autographed cards into her dress pocket, and the respectful silence became a buzz of voices instantly. Everyone wanted to talk to her again, but she was so tired all she could think was…pockets.
The [Princess] who’d commissioned this dress had once insisted on pockets. Most clothing for women didn’t have them.
Dead gods, we’ve fallen so far from what we used to be.
She turned, ready to tackle the next person coming her way—Baron Regalius, who looked positively delighted by the turn of events. But an arm blocked the Baron respectfully. Duke Rhisveri. He cleared his throat meaningfully, and a silence fell, and he looked at Lyonette, questioningly, noting her flushed cheeks and the late hour trending towards the dawn.
“On that fine note, I think it is time to depart.”
Lyonette nodded, despite the instant protestations the comment created. She bowed to the [Queen], who seemed oddly tongue-tied for a moment, and then to Regalius.
“I must be going, truly. I thank you all for your hospitality, especially you, Baron Regalius. It has been an honor to meet Rhisveri’s friends, and Duke…”
She turned to him, a smile crossing her features as she brushed black curls of hair from her face. She was barely twenty years old and, it seemed, at least a decade older. The [Princess] gazed around, then coughed.
“I—thank you, Rhisveri.”
“I’m not sure what for, but you are welcome.”
He wore his little caustic smile, and Lyonette coughed again. She covered her mouth, and someone proffered her a cup. She took it and sipped, and gazed at him, then around. Then brushed at her face.
“No, I enjoyed myself, truly. I…oh dear. Oh no, I’m so sorry. It’s just the dancing and…”
Then Rhisveri’s smirk changed as he and everyone else heard the wobble in her voice. Regalius, with the power of his class, reached for a sidearm without thinking; the handkerchief was in his hands before he saw the tears. And they were falling from her eyes.
Lyonette took the handkerchief as everyone drew back, worried they’d be blamed for the tears. But the cause of them wasn’t clear. The [Princess] dabbed at her eyes, then her nose.
“Thank you, Baron Regalius. I’m sorry, it’s nothing. I’m alright. It’s just—I am so tired of the death and dying. I’ve been exhausted, and this was something. It was small and pleasant, and I could relax. That’s all. I shouldn’t be crying; how embarrassing. Thank you. I’m so sorry…”
Small and pleasant. The death, the dying? Regalius gazed at his wife, and the nobles in the know were giving each other significant glances, which the rest of the audience picked up on. Queen Oiena cleared her throat.
“I think our dear guest is overwrought, which is a fine emotion to have on such a night. Let us give her a moment, in respect.”
At her words, the crowd drew back, and Rhisveri awkwardly tried to shuffle back before Queen Oiena pushed him back into the center. Then Lyonette stood in the center of attention, a stranger with dyed hair, still faintly glowing with another continent’s wonders.
It was Baron Regalius who drew back into the private circle of Rhisveri’s friends, the well-placed nobles who had enough power to be important. No one spoke as they watched Lyonette speaking to Rhisveri, but there was a thought that ran through the group. A treasonous one, perhaps, but one that still appeared, slithering like a snake in long grass.
A pleasant event. Despite an aura clash and a hounding from a Great Knight of Ailendamus. A [Princess] in disguise who had to get back to her children, driven to tears because she had been granted a single night of respite.
The death…and the dying.
Only a fool wouldn’t know who she was at that moment. For proof positive, even Princess Ozena was eying Lyonette and whispering with her brothers. And look at her.
Where was that haughty Calanferian arrogance or the cold-blooded politicking? If those were fake tears, then she was a master of her class. Few of the nobility here had ever ventured to Calanfer or known it beyond the enemy in the war. But for once…Yietha whispered into her husband’s ear.
“Regalius. Do you think she’s talking about the inn or the war with the Dawn Concordat?”
“I’m not certain.”
It was a distinction that they made, since he and Yietha were more aware of where Lyonette truly hailed from after some quick research, but the [Baron of Ceremonies] glanced around and sensed it. For the first time, he thought a seed of discontent against the war had sprouted through the ballroom.
A more principled, moral individual with a weaker grasp of politics might say that the seed should not have come from this moment, but the nobility were a people who had to witness something with their own eyes. This [Princess]…Regalius eyed the good Duke, who was motioning towards the exit.
Either this is a plan deeper than I can follow on Duke Rhisveri’s part, or he does not fully understand the ripples of his actions. For better or worse?
He couldn’t say. Regalius was only reminded, strongly, of a breeze passing through Ailendamus, like the Wind Runner. He watched it swirling again through the ballroom, changing the course of opinions, blowing on the tiller of empire. So he murmured back to Yietha.
“I do hope we’ll see her again.”
For better or worse, he thought he wanted to get a measure of that woman. Regalius watched the 6th Princess of Calanfer departing, and then he glanced away. For the image of the 4th Princess walked beside her, and he was too ashamed. For that deep debt he owed Princess Seraphel, no one would hear Lyonette’s true name from his lips.
Regalius saw the High Magus Telim was also watching Lyonette depart. Holding his cup of wine in hand like a shield against something, and the three Players of Celum had stopped, and all bowed deeply when she peered their way. Men and women swirling around an individual whose reach had touched even Ailendamus. So Regalius wondered to himself and to his wife.
“Dead gods, if that is the [Princess], who must that [Innkeeper] be?”
 
——
 
The 6th Princess of Calanfer still wore the dress of her ancestors as the rain chilled her skin for a moment. Then, the umbrella opened, and her [Knight] held a glowing umbrella like the sun over her head.
“Welcome back, Your Highness.”
Ser Dalimont bowed to Lyonette as he glowered at Duke Rhisveri, but the weary Wyrm just stood there. Casting a gate spell across the continent and the night of festivities had drained even his stamina. But he managed a short bow.
“Thank you again…Princess. I will remember the favor.”
She nodded to Rhisveri.
“Have a good night, Rhisveri. Thank you for the opportunity.”
There was more they could have said, but she was too weary, and they had said it all.
To each other, at least. Everyone else had something to say to Rhisveri, like the angry Drake who strode up.
“Excuse me, sir. I don’t know who you are, but I’d like to discuss your treatment of Miss Lyonette—”
Rhisveri gave Wall Lord Ilvriss one glance, then turned to Lyonette.
“Do you know this Drake, Lyonette? How important is he?”
That stole Ilvriss’ momentum for a critical moment. He opened his mouth, and someone brushed past him.
Bird, Elia, all the inn’s staff and guests—even if you didn’t know who Rhisveri was, you just had an instinct.
“Excuse me, sir, autograph?”
That came from Menolit. Rhisveri stared at the card. He almost reached for the quill when Bird shoved Menolit aside.
“Excuse me, sir or madam.”
“Wh—me?”
“Yes, I would like to post this message to the King of Avel, among others. Thank you. Here is my Runner’s Seal, and here are coins. And my friend here has messages for her home, Gaiil-Drome. Courier, please. She’s very important, apparently.”
Rhisveri was handed a stack of letters. And a Runner’s Seal with a feather glued to it. Then Bird showered several gold coins on top. She leaned over to Elia Arcsinger, who was at her most professional, and whispered.
“I forget. Do we tip him if he’s not technically a Runner?”
The Duke was stuffing the objects into his bag of holding and trying to get a final word out to Lyonette. Or a dignified farewell. But then he was kneecapped by a flying kick.
“That’s for stealing Lyonette! Mrsha, get him!”
The Duke’s eyes rolled up slightly as Nanette executed a flying kick to his kneecap with all of her weight. She landed with a black-and-white dress divided like piano keys fluttering around her. Mrsha, in her kilt, hesitated and didn’t stab Rhisveri with the fork. Because when he saw her, he froze up.
The energetic witch was still kicking at his legs when he picked her up and, without looking at Nanette, handed her to Lyonette. The Wyrm hesitated, and then he knelt down.
“Hello. Do you have a moment, girl? I…I know we spoke via the theatre Skill, but I don’t think I was that coherent. I’d like to—to apologize.”
Nanette’s squirming ceased, and the Wall Lord stopped trying to elbow the other guests out of the way. Lyonette’s head snapped around, and she remembered what Mrsha had said.
A crying Duke…his voice was already filled with that vibrato from his speech about Eclizza. She was about to cause a distraction for him, but her daughter was faster.
Why don’t we talk in the garden, Your Grace? I know just the place.
She took him by the hand and led him towards that glowing door, and he flinched. Of course…Lyonette and Nanette eavesdropped on them. They couldn’t help it.
 
——
 
A tall man with a sharp goatee and brilliant emerald eyes dripped in the garden filled with sand, dust, and a single moonbeam shining down onto the top of that mountain of sand. The wind howled at his face, but he didn’t care.
“I’m sorry. I should have stopped and fixed things.”
It’s not your fault. Everything was falling apart. You can’t blame yourself for that. You weren’t even there, only your magic body, and you did so much. It all worked out, in a way.
He was shaking his head. Tears were leaking down his face no matter how many times he used the handkerchief she’d given him.
“I could have healed you. I should have. I’ve seen battles. I let you down.”
Rhisveri, I caused that mess. I knew what was coming. I don’t blame you. Please don’t beat yourself up. It’s okay.
She tried to pat his hand, and he half-shouted at her with a hint of that arrogance, that ire towards the world that dripped out of him at times like his venom.
“You cannot tell me that! Not you. Children shouldn’t…children do not get to make that decision. You should have been safe.”
Even if it was my choice?
He knelt down in the sand and looked around, but his watchers were lying on their bellies, out of sight under a dune. He met her little eyes with his own, and she thought, suddenly, he understood her.
“Yes. You might have the character of Giants and the courage of Unicorns, but you still should never have to choose.”
Perhaps he’d once been her. Having to make hard decisions before he was ready. He, too, had lost his family and been adopted…the Duke whispered.
“It was my fault, and nothing will change that. I’m just glad…I can talk to you. Mrsha. Mrsha, I have had a conversation with those who can judge me. Bright folk who hide their wings. The times when they carried flaming blades has long passed. But they are still the only people whose wrath I fear. They raise many children. Keep them safe. It is in Ailendamus, and I know it is far, and you do not know my kingdom. But…if you wish to go, I will take you. Your mother and anyone else who will come too.”
She blinked at him. Then glanced around with more awareness than he.
Even if she didn’t want me to?
“I’d talk her into it. It would be safer than this. You deserve peace after everything.”
He stood awkwardly, hands in his pockets, gazing down at her. The girl just reached out and patted his good knee.
Thank you. I don’t wish to. If I ever do, I’ll ask you. You’re a good piece of corn, Rhisveri.
“…I don’t understand the analogy, but thank you.”
The girl cast around, then wrote something that not even their eavesdroppers could read. Glowing golden text cupped in her paw. He bent down to read it.
I wish someone had been there for you too. You deserve it too.
He blinked. Then shook his head. His eyes became distant. He looked around the sandy garden and raised a hand.
For a second, the winds stopped blowing, and Mrsha saw green plants rising out of the ground. A temporary field of flowers. Even trees, rising, until they shed their leaves and became withered. Then hard, like stone. But the Wyrm stood there as if it were the most beautiful thing in nature.
“I did. It just took a bit longer.”
He whispered to her. Then they were standing together, and Mrsha sat on a stump. He sat with her.
What are you going to do aside from taking my Mother to dances?
He shrugged, murmuring so only they could hear.
“Go back and be scolded? But after that, we are at war. There’s much to do. Armies to rebuild. But after seeing the palace and the truth…”
The Wyrm’s eyes narrowed, and they both saw the six beings standing there. The death of some of them. Rhisveri whispered.
“I have only thought in terms of war. That is what we default to, time and time again. Or perhaps it was just the Creler Wars which showed me the existential threats that no peaceful kingdom can endure. I had never been ashamed of the cost of lives…it was meant to be a place of safety. But what safety exists in the face of contempt itself?”
She nodded. The Wyrm glanced at her.
“Prepare. For both strife and the consequences of that. I promise you, I will not forget the lessons I learned here. That’s all. The dances are just obligations. We must be people in between being heroes and martyrs and legends.”
He stood, dusting sand off himself, and then blew his nose again. He handed her the full handkerchief, and she made a face.
Thanks, pal.
One tap and it fluttered, clean. The Wyrm turned away.
“She’s not so bad, you know. Fithea was far more dignified, knowledgeable, magical, and superior in every respect, but you have a fine runner-up as a Mother goes.”
True, but we don’t want to give her an ego. Second place is more than she needs. I’ve always thought that Colfa was very cool, myself.
He grinned, and then they were walking out of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Lyonette and Nanette met them outside the inn again. Mrsha and Rhisveri eyed their dusty clothing, and the Wyrm coughed into one fist.
“Well, I must be going. You have something all over you, Miss Lyonette. Thank you.”
She couldn’t scowl at him. The Duke walked back to the waiting gateway that opened in a flash of light. The [Princess] called out.
“It was fun, Rhisveri. Next time, please send advance notice?”
He hesitated, and his eyes fell on her hair as the black dye vanished and the royal red of her hair shone. Then he bowed again and stepped back into the portal, which closed behind him.
 
—-
 
Afterwards, everyone stood around for a moment, talking quietly, savoring the magic and the moment before it faded. Then they realized it was late. Very late.
Dame Ushar was still wearing Queen Marquin’s armor, holding her gaudy Thronebearer’s armor like a child’s outfit in her arms. Her eyes were wide as the night caught up with her. Then she started, handed the armor to Dalimont, and breathed.
“I must report in. By your leave, Your Highness?”
“Go.”
Lyonette nodded to her, and Ushar strode off. Ser Dalimont stood there as the rain pattered down outside the inn. He pointed towards the glowing door.
“Your daughters are in bed, Lyonette. They began washing up when they saw you leaving. The Wall Lord has taken himself to his rooms as well.”
“Oh my, it is late. I’ll check on them.”
Lyonette grew guilty, but Dalimont forestalled her.
“I believe they were quite happy to see you enjoying yourself. However, in interest of avoiding questions, we might use the [Garden of Sanctuary]? It is 3 AM, and I believe the common room has a number of guests and spies who would dearly love to question you.”
She nodded gratefully and conjured the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door. When she stepped into the 2nd floor hallway, she took a second to peek at her daughters asleep and whispered a goodnight to them.
Nanette waved blearily; her pajamas had little glowing [Witch] hats and broomsticks sewn onto the cloth. She must have made it. It was the most normal-looking thing that she had worn, so Lyonette didn’t comment on the fact that the pajamas were red and the glowing symbols were bright blue.
Mrsha was dozing away, but her eyes flickered as Lyonette kissed her forehead. She reached up a paw and touched her mother’s cheek. Then she wrote.
Your makeup is all tearstained, Mom. Good night.
That made Lyonette laugh. She bade her daughters good night, then walked back to her rooms. There she dismissed Dalimont.
“Go back up Ushar, please, and disperse the onlookers? Thank you, Dalimont. Tell everyone the plan for tomorrow is still on.”
“Are you sure? The hour…”
“We’ll have a late breakfast.”
She shooed him away, and then, after he was gone, Lyonette studied her face in the mirror. Dead gods, she was a mess. Makeup had run with her tears and sweat. So Lyonette washed her face with some water, then exhaled.
The next thing she did was go to the outhouse, using the [Garden of Sanctuary] to teleport right outside. Because she had been holding it for at least an hour. As the rain pattered down on the roof, Lyonette decided that plumbing in the new inn would be a delight.
After that, she returned to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and called out.
“Apista? Are you asleep?”
The bee flew down from her roost, and Lyonette hugged her and whispered to her for a while. It was so late that she let Apista fly back to bed, but Lyonette wasn’t quite asleep. She was still coming down off the adrenaline and emotions of the night, so she stood in Erin’s garden, breathing in and out, gazing at the place where gold coins still littered the grass. The Box of Incontinuity still hung there, waiting for another use.
“Dancing with a Wyrm. What a strange night.”
She shook her head, then stepped back into the hallway of the 2nd floor. Lyonette walked softly down the hallway, listening. She could hear and sense the inn around her; people winding down their own long nights.
Bird’s door was ajar, and the Queen’s voice was coming from the inside.
“Go fish.”
“…Do you have any 5s?”
“Go fish again.”
That was Elia and Calescent? They were playing cards. Which suggested that Bird and Elia and Calescent were friends. Lyonette didn’t interrupt them, just passed on with a smile. Above her head, she could sense Kevin in his rooms, and there was a faint clank and muffled oath as he dropped something. Working late on a project involving metal.
A sleepy pair of Goblins, Sticks and Asgra, were trailing back to their rooms with Goldbody; they started, then waved at Lyonette as they headed upstairs. Now the entire inn was going to rest. Even the staff.
They were waiting for me to get back. That touched Lyonette, and she ran her hand along the nameplates as she reached one end of the hallway and turned back. She was thinking of the night. Pondering the consequences of her actions. Because they had been her actions, even with Erin’s encouragement.
Oh, Erin. The memory of the [Innkeeper]’s wounded soul dovetailed nicely with the threats made by Rhir’s ambassador. They will notice. They are coming. We are not safe.
But she’d known that ever since the Winter Solstice. The [Palace of Fates] hadn’t changed the dynamic, just, perhaps, advanced the timeline. Lyonette didn’t want to worry or obsess over the inevitable danger. It was coming, and she would deal with it. She had to.
Dancing the five-step with a Wyrm. That little Princess Oesca, who might have made a good friend for Mrsha. And, Lyonette hoped, would have a happier life than she herself had had.
Ailendamus, glowing and delightful, for all it was the enemy’s land. Lyonette walked down the hallway, a half-slumbering [Princess] not weighed down by grief or anxiety for once. Just…existing with the weight of what she had to do upon her.
“So that’s how you felt, Erin. I should have understood. Coming back from the dead meant you carried that burden until the Winter Solstice. Baleros is more restful, splits in your soul and all.”
How terrible. How perfectly, painfully beautiful it was to see Erin sitting there, scarred, healing, at more peace than she had been in her inn, amongst friends.
Let her rest. I shall handle Roshal, Rhir, and Erribathe. And if I can…more than merely that.
The [Princess]’ steps slowed. She glanced at the smooth wall and realized she’d stopped running her hands over the nameplates a few minutes ago.
Yes, indeed. She was the last undamaged member of the inn. Erin, her daughter, everyone else was hurt and needed rest. But the [Princess]? No one had stabbed her or taken their pound of flesh and blood. Lyonette gazed ahead and then looked around, and it was dark.
A single window let moonlight spill into the long, empty corridor. There were no bedrooms around her, just the same wooden floor and hallway. Rain fell from outside, but Lyonette had never been in this part of the inn.
It did not exist.
“Erin’s new Skill. [Long Hallways].”
It shouldn’t be that impressive after the night she’d had, but there was something about the long, unbroken stretch of impossible architecture that gave Lyonette chills. She walked on, grateful for a place to muse all to her own.
That was The Wandering Inn. It had a personality of its own. When someone needed something, they found it. So, the [Princess]’ slow steps took her down the dim corridor towards the door at the far end. It had no nameplate, but she slowly put her hand on the brass doorknob and spoke.
“The other new Skill? What had Erin called it? Her [Room of the Traveller]?”
She wondered what that did and why it couldn’t wait till tomorrow. Smiling slightly, Lyonette swung the door open, thinking of her own Skills that she’d used for the first time tonight. So many useful ones…and the [Treasury of House Marquin]. She had to go back to Terandria to collect more of the treasures. To read that book. Oh, she’d forgotten to bring it back! Next time, she’d get it.
“Next time? Oh my. Oh no—”
Lyonette was chuckling as the door swung open. Then her breath caught. She stopped and flinched.
What lay beyond the plain door was not the [Room of the Traveller]. It was, in fact, no special room at all. It was a plain, empty room maybe twice as large as one of the bedrooms, denuded of windows or anything else.
Blank space. But it was not empty. There were…three things in the room, and the sleepy [Princess] froze when she laid eyes on them. And for the first time today, she experienced true fear.
For the tallest object sitting like a hunched giant in the corner of the room, big enough to hold an entire person, gleaming with dark grey metal, was a vault. A solid door shone dully on the plain-looking prison. It appeared ordinary, but it seemed to repel everything as well. As if those walls would survive the death of everything, including the world itself. It had no handles. No markings.
It waited.
[The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World] sat there, and next to it was a far smaller object. This was a towering repository that gleamed with burnished metal, mithril-bright, like a piece of the stars brought down and forged into a vault with a spoked metal handle.
The [Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments] sat on a plain table, the smallest object in the room. Its contents a mystery, a small container as promising as the vault was ominous.
Longing to be opened.
Along the far wall, the most ordinary-looking of the three was a huge chest sitting on the floor, wide and worn, the old brasswork scratched.
The [Faded Chest of Then and Them]. Of the three objects, this one was humblest and filled with the most painful of things.
A memory.
Lyonette saw them all fully as the door swung open, and she didn’t move. She had frozen, her eyes wide, her breath caught in her chest. This room. She’d never seen it. No one had. Had they always been here? Why was she here?
They didn’t move. Of course not. They were just objects. Just like the box…but she was feeling for the handle of the door behind her. Lyonette’s fingers found it, and she flinched. Tried to move forwards, towards the vault, but could not.
It towered above her. It felt bigger than the dimensions of the room. The [Princess] cowered away from it, heart thundering in terror. It didn’t move, of course. It was just an object.
But it terrified her. She saw it, now. Erin’s true Skill.
“Not one, but four. Oh, oh dead gods.”
The box. The [Box of Incontinuity] was the smallest of the four objects. The smallest…and see what it had done! Now there were four.
Lyonette had been face-to-face with the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus and not wavered an inch. She had seen the Goblin King charging and refused to run. But right now, her hands were groping for the handle of the door, and she was pressed against one wall in a mindless terror. She didn’t understand.
Why now? Why now? Why, when everything had gone so well…
The safe was glowing, but there was no light in this room. Its glow bounced off the faded brasswork of the chest, and Lyonette’s fluttering heart calmed slightly as she gazed at the beautiful cube. Yet the vault terrified her. She felt like anything could be behind that impenetrable door.
“I don’t want this. I don’t need—leave me alone! Please!”
Was someone doing this? The Grand Design that Mrsha talked about? If so, Lyonette had something to say to it already, and she’d be adding her complaints!
But no…that’s not how it was supposed to work, was it? The [Princess] took another shaky breath and then remembered something.
She wasn’t just a [Princess]. She was [Princess of the Inn]. Her powers literally let her use Erin’s greatest gifts. What she needed, the inn provided. Just like how the Box of Incontinuity had appeared for her…
“O-oh. I see. I asked for this, didn’t I?”
The three objects didn’t respond, of course. She was almost…almost positive they didn’t work like that. It was just Erin’s greatest Skill.
Just Erin’s greatest Skill. Lyonette’s arms were spread against the wall as she kept her face to the objects, like they were wild animals, but she made herself leave the wall. Take a step forwards.
Nothing happened. The doors didn’t swing open. The horrors of hell didn’t emerge to drag her screaming into the receptacles. Of course not. Far worse…
They were waiting to be used. By her. All the consequences, all the responsibility was on the person who called for their use.
“Me.”
The [Princess] conjured a ball of [Light] into one hand. As she lifted it, the [Vault of the Mortal World] refused to acknowledge the light. There was no glow off its walls. It existed independent of light itself; in the pitch black of the void, she would have seen it.
Lyonette’s head swung to it, then to the safe and the chest, and she tried to understand what was going on.
“I summoned you. I wanted this, I think. Or I’m being given the opportunity to…do something. But that’s a silly thing to say, because I already know, don’t I? I know why I came here.”
She did, too. There was one, no, two last things to do before she slept, and it had been a long day. But if she had to name the two things to wrap this eventful, gentle, and now mildly earthshaking day…the [Princess]’ lips moved. She closed her eyes and spoke. It was easier when she couldn’t see the containers.
“You know, it truly has been a—a gentle and pleasant day. All things considered, it has been! Not an uneventful one, but I wouldn’t trust that even if I had one. It had that silly Wyrm, Ilvriss, and…it was not wholly good, but it was what I wanted. Truly.”
She took a breath, eyes still closed.
“There were only two things that took away from it. Only two. Not Pawn nor Eclizza; that was just living. No, what disturbed me, what I fear is the Blighted Kingdom’s threat against the inn. Their promise. And…Erin’s wounds.”
Yes, those two things genuinely hurt. Seeing the [Innkeeper]’s injury, which did not look like any healing potion or, perhaps, even Potion of Regeneration could fix, had upset Lyonette. And the Blighted Kingdom, Erribathe, Roshal, and the other foes of the inn…
Hectval had once taken Erin away. Hectval. If that little Drake city could do that, then what about world powers? Vaulont, Elia, the Calanferian servants would do their best, but in the face of that danger, Lyonette feared for the future.
“We have survived worse, and we will survive it. Erin and the inn. But it upsets me. So. That’s why I’ve called you here tonight.”
Detective Lyonette du Marquin came to the conclusion and reflected that Zevara really should have asked for her help. She was smart, insightful, and knew the Antinium! Anyways…she swallowed as she opened her eyes and looked again.
The room had changed. The Vault of the Mortal World was now in the center of the room, right in front of her. She was a foot away from the metal. This time, Lyonette barely flinched, and she didn’t scream. A vast improvement.
“I’m terrified. I rather fear I need the outhouse again. Unless I were to pee in one of these objects.”
That would be a rather funny way to end the entire world. No, no, that wouldn’t happen.
Probably.
Lyonette didn’t know what to do. But she did, at the same time. She had seen how the Box of Incontinuity worked. She didn’t know exactly what each object did, but if you extrapolated the powers of the Box of Incontinuity, then each object had some kind of authority that was the same as the box. Only…greater.
She had an idea, and it was very, very scary. But the [Princess] knew that was only half of the solution being offered here. She went on, speaking to herself and her audience.
“I can do something important here. But with respect, that isn’t the only important thing that will happen tonight, is it? I’ve been putting it off, and I think, so have you for a while. I’m overdue, though pardon me if I sound impertinent, um…Miss? Sir? No, Mrsha said you don’t have a gender. Uh—uh—Grand Design of Isthekenous?”
Yes. There was no movement in the room, no response, but she was addressing the only other thing who could hear her. The thing that heard everything.
Lyonette had heard a prayer to the Grand Design in the ballroom of Ailendamus, after all. But even without it, she would have known what to do. After all, Mrsha had told her mother of her great adventure. Besides that…Lyonette’s hands were clasped together. She knew the motion. She had heard the words.
She’d dated Pawn, after all. Even tried to pray with him for the Antinium’s heaven, but Lyonette had never been a true believer in this or even the future-Pawn world. She might wish for his heaven to be real, but it was an Antinium desire, and Lyonette didn’t see Erin as a goddess.
But the Grand Design? Oh yes, she could believe in that. She had witnessed its miracles from the first time it had given her levels. It had brought her daughter back for her. Even if she didn’t have the faith for a class…Lyonette prayed to it. A conversation before she reached Level 40.
“My family has records about this. Reaching capstones, that is. I’ve heard of people…requesting Skills. I think it works like that, doesn’t it? Queen Marquin had that happen to her. So, if you’ll excuse my presumption, the way I think it works is that we can ask for levels and classes. If it fits us. If you agree.”
She knelt on the ground, her dress changing to soft moonlight colors in the glow of the safe. Lyonette licked her lips.
“I wasn’t sure what I wanted to become. I rather feel like my [Princess of the Inn] class was well done. It fit what I wanted to be until now. Thank you.”
It never hurt to butter up your recipient, she reasoned.
“But I have reached Level 40. I have lost so much, and now it’s just me. And all the staff, of course, but I’m the one in the inn. I…I don’t know if I can do it. I am leaning on Erin’s Skills. I suppose I’ll do that until the day I’m no longer in the inn. That’s alright with me, but you understand, don’t you?”
Lyonette opened her eyes and stared up at the vault.
“I just want to help her. Erin. My daughter took on the burden of the [Palace], because she thought she had to. So that’s what I desire. Let it be me, next. I am so tired of watching someone else step forwards.”
Halrac challenging the Goddess of Death. Ser Sest throwing himself forwards with a laugh. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut on more tears.
“…So that’s what I want. Give it to me. A class that I desire. I have no name for it, but I will take on some of Erin’s struggles. And I will defend this inn. I will open the vault and protect the world.”
Her right eye opened, and the blue of her eyes caught the light.
“Protect Rhir, Roshal, and Erribathe and all our foes. For I will not be so kind when they come in wrath and death. This is the kinder option they do not deserve. If you agree, please, make my class interesting. Amen. Thank you for your time.”
She unclasped her hands and rose. There was no response, of course; she didn’t expect there to be. But she had said her piece, and the words seemed to echo in her chest with the faintest reverberations of that grand voice she had once heard.
Queen Marquin’s bellow. Someday, Lyonette wanted to speak and have the world listen like that. It was terrifying. A heavy weight that made her think she had never understood what the crown truly meant…but was beginning to.
There was nothing for it now. The [Princess] knew what she wanted, and she would see if the Grand Design thought she had a right to it. She stood, and the [The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World] was again in the center of the room.
But no longer waiting. Her breath caught; she had heard nothing, no lock undoing itself. Nor the sound of its hinges moving.
Yet the door was open. Just a hair, and inside the vault was nothing. Nothing at all.
An empty tomb, an unfilled space that you could put…anything into. The Princess touched the door, and it was lighter than a feather. Heavier than a mountain.
She swung the door open and knew what she wanted to put inside. She didn’t know…how. But the vault knew.
“Ah. How terrifying. Once and never again. Right?”
The [Princess] gazed down at what she’d put inside the vault, and her arm was shaking. Her eyes were wide—but she stared down at the little diorama that had appeared. A perfectly detailed, utter recreation of an inn on a hill, the rain falling around it.
The door closed on it. The [Vault of the Mortal World] made no sound, but when it was done, Lyonette stumbled backwards, gasping. She clutched at her chest, sweat soaking through her dress.
“I’ll need a bath after this. That’s one…we’ll see what that does. Tomorrow.”
She didn’t know if she’d be able to sleep after this, but—her heart was beating even faster when she turned to the second object. The small safe on the table.
The [Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments] somehow scared her worse than the vault. This would be harder, and she didn’t know if it was possible, even with the idea in her head.
The Grand Design knew what she intended, too.
Even it held its breath as Lyonette took the handles of the safe and tried to move it. This time, it was hard; the safe didn’t want to open. Lyonette threw her weight onto the handles and felt it shift ever-so-slightly.
“Please? She doesn’t need it. She trusts me, and I…I can handle it.”
Slowly, one turn after another, she got the safe’s door to open. Bit by bit, the mechanism unwound, and the panting [Princess] saw what was inside. She reached for it and then paused.
“It’s terrifying.”
She hesitated there, uncertain if she wanted what she had asked for. For a long time, an [Immortal Moment], she stood, pondering her decision. Then the [Princess] smiled like she had at the Goblin King.
“It fits this pleasant day. Some deeds should be done only when you’ve seen all there is to lose and know what the sunshine feels like. Just like Rhisveri said.”
So saying, she reached into the safe and murmured.
“Oh, it hurts so much, Erin.”
Then she carefully gathered it up and pressed it to her chest, hobbling away. The safe’s door slammed shut as the [Princess] turned and fled.
Something taken out, something left behind. Lyonette du Marquin stumbled out of that room that didn’t really exist and found her rooms waiting for her. She collapsed into the bed, and then, after a long moment, the Grand Design of Isthekenous spoke.
For not even it had known what her class would be until the last moment of those dice rolling. It whispered the class out, where the inn had once shook for Erin Solstice. A whisper that would run across Liscor and the world as they awoke to find out how, once more, the inn had changed.
 
[Class Change: Princess of the Inn → The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn!]
[The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn Level 41!]
[Condition – Soul’s Crack Assigned.]
[Condition – Impaired Sight Assigned.]
[Condition – Crippled Reflexes Assigned.]
[Condition – Pained Nerves Assigned.]
[Condition – Resonant Flesh Assigned.]
[Skill – Grand Act: Reforge My Shattered Soul Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Lesser Charisma → Greater Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Give Me Your Best Obtained!]
[Skill – Ritual: Designate Heirloom Obtained!]
 
——
 
The next day, King Nuvityn was sitting in his tents for breakfast, having a scrying orb chat with one of Erribathe’s [Diplomats]. Not a group he usually interacted with, but this was apparently urgent.
The King of Myths was not in a good mood. He didn’t like surprises of this nature. And it felt to him like he was behind events. He really didn’t want to hear that one of his foes had appeared at a banquet thousands of miles from where she should be in the heart of a kingdom he disliked.
“You’re certain it was her, Diplomat Ke’len? There is no place for mistakes in this regard.”
He knew he was leaning on the Dwarven man, who spoke slightly tensely into the scrying orb, but if this was true…
Ke’len was a hundred and twenty years old, and he’d been [Diplomat] for half his life. He was maybe not the highest-levelled since Erribathe didn’t do much diplomacy, but his experience was still valuable. He was one of the sort who wanted to go outside Erribathe, and Nuvityn did trust his opinion enough. The Dwarf bowed again.
“Her hair was dyed, but she was unmistakable. Her name was an anagram of Lyonette—it was not the most involved disguise, Your Majesty. Either it was a poor fakery or the original [Princess], and I must believe my eyes and the reactions of others, including the emissary of Rhir.”
Nuvityn uttered an oath and turned in his seat.
“Across the world in a moment. How? Did that Duke waste a [Grand Teleportation] spell, Magus Tserre, or was Wistram in on it?”
The magus was sleepy as she glared at Prildor, who looked in fine fettle. Amusingly, for being a half-Elf who lived a routine in the timeless villages—Tserre was not a morning person and would wake up at noon or late if she chose. She snapped back at him as breakfast dishes floated around her, preparing her plate.
“It’s far from impossible. It just requires a lot of mana or preparation. A dedicated [Gate] spell. I could make one.”
She shrugged at his expression.
“If this Duke Rhisveri is a capable spellcaster, he could do it too. Though it speaks to his mana reserves and acumen, either way. He’s then on par with a modern Archmage. Whatever that’s worth.”
He couldn’t countenance this, even for a King of Myths. Nuvityn snapped back, irked.
“I have it on good authority that the Order of Seasons can perform a similar ritual, but it costs a fortune in magic! You’re on par with their grand ritual then, Magus Tserre?”
She rolled her eyes.
“The Order of Seasons. Hah! Yes, I am, Your Majesty. I am on par with a Knight Order’s grand magic they stole millenia ago! What they can do is force a massive gate spell open anywhere in the world at great cost. Like throwing a hammer when they please. I can’t do that, but I could teleport one or two people a continent away. So it’s very possible.”
Her snap back made Nuvityn nod and turn to the scrying orb. Belatedly, he remembered the old [Archmages] like Zelkyr had pulled the same stunt now and then. Even then, it wasn’t that casual; they’d rather just fly from spot to spot. Or have those obnoxious flying Golems that the Drake had made…say what you would about the Necromancer, but the undead Wyvern chariot had been classier. And quieter.
“Then I acknowledge it was her. I am not pleased, Diplomat Ke’len.”
“Nor would any reasonable man expect you to be, Your Majesty. The only question is whether I acted in accordance with your will.”
The Dwarf bowed again, and Nuvityn thought.
“The warning was in vein with what I would have ordered. Establishing it was her—all good. Have you anything else to add?”
There would be consequences for this. There had to be. If not from him, then from her enemies. He was wondering if he should hire someone after all when Ke’len coughed. He tugged at his ornamental runes still sewn into his beard for friendship, honor, integrity, the kinds of things you would want in an honest [Diplomat].
“Merely, Your Majesty, a question. When the threat was given directly from the Blighted King’s emissary, she invoked the Slavers of Roshal. Knowing your opinions, I hesitated to agree. There are strange bedfellows in conflict and then there’s this.”
Nuvityn’s own mouth soured at the name, and he glowered. Tserre just shrugged. At his questioning glance, she replied drily.
“The Blighted Kingdom considers Roshal to be one of its better allies. More than most Terandrian kingdoms.”
“Your statements, Magus, are objectionable.”
She rolled her eyes.
“You send yearly support. Roshal is more generous. The Blighted Kingdom calculates its affections based on the value of support, not the sender.”
Well, he was in a worse mood yet, and Nuvityn growled back at Ke’len.
“You did well to be distant. Anything else?”
“Only that there was apparently a reprisal of some kind. ‘Sent twice’. Something that the Brazier Lady noticed, because it rattled her composure greatly.”
That made Nuvityn eye Tserre, and she raised her brows.
“That’s quite interesting. Nothing you heard about, Your Majesty?”
“No…but Erribathe’s spies are not exactly prolific. If it is not in our purview, it must have been hidden from ‘public knowledge’. Interesting. You have done well, Diplomat Ke’len. I shall consider this. If you see Her Highness again, notify me at once.”
The Dwarf bowed, and Nuvityn cut the scrying orb off and drummed his fingers. Once more, the inn moved at speeds that made his army feel slow. He turned to Tserre.
“I do not like this, Magus. It may simply be a singular occasion, but a reprisal may well occur before we even reach Izril’s shores.”
“Likely. Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom are rather direct and quick to reply with force to their perceived enemies. I imagine a…reprisal would already be underway, in fact.”
To that, Nuvityn just grunted.
“I am aware of one unsavory individual who has contacted me in hopes of securing funding for just such an act. I refuse to work with such forces and would rather slaughter the group itself—time permitting, we shall.”
He did not like that thought either. There were children in that inn, a fact that other powers seemed all-too-willing to ignore. Though he would be loath to defend the inn before he could hold it to account, Nuvityn realized he had to inspect the board before a move was made.
“Magus Tserre, will you perform a simple scrying spell on the inn for me? I wish to view it and perhaps…make some deliberation. I invite you to give your input as unstintingly as ever.”
Better her than his advisors like Andromeda who would argue for the most extreme option in the heat of emotion. Tserre sighed, clearly unhappy at having a [King]’s ear, and waved her hand.
“Very well, [Long-Ranged Scrying: The Wandering Inn].”
Nuvityn turned back to the scrying orb expectantly. He checked his reflection in it, noting the white hairs in his beard. He wondered how long until he was fully white-haired given how slowly he aged. After a few seconds of finger-combing his beard, he heard Tserre mutter again.
“[Pinpoint Scrying]. Hmpf. Those damn idiots in the [Mage’s Guild] have the wrong coordinates. One second. [Regional Scrying: Liscor]. There. Zoom, zoom…”
Then she went silent. Nuvityn realized after another half a minute that something was wrong. Tserre was staring at the air, lips moving.
“Magus? I can have our [Mages] pull the coordinates. They’ve scried it before.”
“I can find it!”
She snapped at him, and he let her work, but motioned one of his other [Mages] forwards. After a minute, Tserre whirled.
“It’s not there.”
The [Mage] working on the scrying orb peeked up.
“We have the exact coordinates, Magus Tserre. It should be right here…[Scrying]! There!”
He pointed, and Nuvityn stared at the blank scrying orb. Tserre scorched the other [Mage] with a look. She turned to the [King].
“The inn’s vanished. I can’t locate it.”
“What?”
He sat upright, and Tserre said it slower, overly patient.
“I can’t find the inn. I tried locating it via scrying spells. I scried the entire Floodbowl or whatever you call it, Liscor—I know where it should be. It’s gone, Your Majesty. Not just on scrying spells. I can’t find it.”
“Ridiculous! Did they use some kind of anti-scrying spell? If that Duke is a good spellcaster—”
“No, Your Majesty, it’s gone. I’m no idiot, I can bypass anyone’s wards! I can’t find it!”
She floated after him as he strode over to call for some maps. Andromeda came running, and Nuvityn stabbed a finger at a map of central Izril he’d gotten just for this purpose.
“Just find the location of Liscor and move towards the inn. It’s right…”
Then he felt his heart skip a beat. His finger stabbed down on the map of Liscor and the Floodplains, and, slowly, his eyes roamed the map. Andromeda gazed down as well, and her expression grew confused.
“That must be an outdated map, sire. Let me just—”
Tserre’s eyes had gone wide. She bent over the map and when Andromeda tried to grab it, pushed the woman back. Nuvityn murmured.
“This is the same map I’ve been using. This…”
His finger roamed the map, trying to find something he knew was there. Or did he? Had he been mistaken?
He couldn’t remember. But he could remember he remembered, and that shook him more than anything. The King of Myth’s fingers crossed over the Floodplains, then moved up, down, across the High Passes. But no matter how hard he searched, he couldn’t find it.
The Wandering Inn, which had been clearly labeled before…was gone. When Nuvityn’s head rose, he met Tserre’s eyes.
“Would a spell do…this, Magus Tserre?”
She licked her lips, then spoke in a too-calm voice.
“Yes. A Tier 8 spell would. Or maybe some kind of highly-targeted Tier 7 spell, but I would sense a Tier 7 spell, I think. This strikes me as a Skill.”
When someone said ‘Tier 8 spell’ in that tone of voice, it provoked a silence. Every advisor in his tent turned to the King of Myths, waiting for him to decry it as impossible. Nuvityn had embarrassed himself as a younger man too many times doing just that. So, he simply rose and spoke, face calm even if his insides weren’t.
“Mages. Contact Erribathe’s Mage’s Guild right now. And Liscor’s. Contact the Adventurer’s Guilds, the Cartographer’s Guilds in Invrisil—”
He suspected he already knew what they were going to find, but he had to do the silly thing and check. His heart was beating now, damn it. With frustration, anxiety, and excitement.
How? How? And then he thought—
If I am so calm, it is because I am not frothing at the mouth with madness. But I wonder—what is their reaction?
 
——
 
A Level 4 alarm was being called in the Blighted Kingdom. It began as a lower-level alert, of course. A [Strategist] tasked with the inn first suspected improper filing of their maps, already a huge issue, but it was upgraded to deliberate sabotage within minutes.
When it became clear no map or scrying spell had the location of the inn, a [Court Mage] was called for, who upgraded the Level 2 alarm into Level 4. Of course, the matter escalated from there.
The Blighted King himself had been waiting for news of a reprisal after the Antinium Incident. When he heard that the inn had vanished…he almost ordered the cringing [Strategist] thrown out a window.
Instantly, he demanded every spy they had in the region go find the inn and provide a beacon. Half of them refused on the spot, and he ordered them stricken from the lists of capable agents. Which the [Royal Spymaster] objected to because independent agents needed to be handled carefully.
Normally, such criticism was allowed in the Blighted Kingdom, but the Blighted King’s wrath was such that the [Spymaster] was ordered to be silent. Then the courts waited, as the [King] fumed, for a [Spy] to deliver news. Only…after an hour, the first reports came back.
No one could find the inn.
“Impossible! That door is still surely working! The inn provides transport for multiple cities! Has it ceased to work?”
The Blighted Queen snapped, annoyed herself at the incompetence of the agents. To which the [Spymaster] replied, cautious—
“The door is working, and one [Spy] moved from Invrisil to Liscor to report it was working.”
“Then go through the door to the inn! That…the door is connected to the inn, isn’t it? Or is it some kind of waystation outside the inn?”
Suddenly, her brows crossed. Even she couldn’t remember if the [Door of Portals] was actually in the inn itself. And she was the most certain person in the room—the court were trying to remember the layout of the inn, and if they had even known it…the [Spymaster] licked his lips.
“That’s the problem, Your Majesty. The [Spies] can’t. They’re not sure where they go. One even left the portal room. He wasn’t sure if it led to the inn, but he did try. He failed to reach the common room of the inn and was lost in the Floodplains of Liscor for half an hour before he managed to run back to Liscor.”
The Blighted King stared at the map. And his hands trembled on the armrest of the throne as someone summed up the problem.
“The Wandering Inn cannot be located.”
The court was dismissed as the Blighted King began to rage. Which, incidentally, was somewhat lesser than the reaction of the Slavers of Roshal. When the bad news was delivered to them, several people were thrown out of one of the tower windows.
Well, Thatalocian just laughed as he rolled a die and picked it up and found all the numbers had melted off the sides.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin watched aimless [Spies] and guests wandering around the Floodplains over breakfast until she felt bad for them and took them back to the portal room. They were like lost chickens. It was funny; not a single one could tell where the inn was.
Mrsha could. It was, well…
Actually, she doubted she could find it on a map, but she could at least get back through the door. She doubted anyone could pinpoint the spot well enough to blast it with a long-ranged spell, let alone march an army or [Assassins] in.
Leave the inn and you might be in trouble, but as a security-measure, she had to admit, her mother’s gambit had worked. Mrsha just wondered if there would be…consequences. But then, this wasn’t the most important thing of the day.
It was barely a blip on the radar, really. The inn was a flurry of motion. Calescent was preparing a menu, writing out packed lunch ideas for a trip. Ishkr jogged into the room, breathless.
“Alright, we will have wagons ready and I am going to look into horses. Is…is Lyonette also helping with the preparations?”
He asked Mrsha, who shrugged as Wall Lord Ilvriss argued with Ser Dalimont.
“I’ll go myself. There is no need for the inn or Lyonette to be part of this! She’s in no condition to—”
“Her Highness insists, Wall Lord.”
“She insists? Then tell her no! She’s not—we need a [Healer], not travel!”
The frantic Drake was arguing until someone spoke. Mrsha turned her head then and heard a voice which sounded like the one from yesterday. But there was a faint…rasp to it. A crack. Just like her skin, really.
“I’m fine, Ilvriss. I am going to see a Healer. Yelroan? I want to have Grimalkin and Pryde with us. Add them to the list of people to take.”
Mrsha stared at her mother as she came over and hesitantly reached up, then thought better of it. She didn’t want to hurt Lyonette, but the [Princess] took her paw and winced.
“Ow. That only smarts a bit, sweetie. Don’t worry. I’m going to take it easy today, but it is going to happen. See?”
A smile. Mrsha gazed up solemnly at Princess Lyonette du Marquin, and Nanette reached up to tug a hat she didn’t have.
“You look beautiful today, Lyonette.”
She spoke solemnly to Lyonette, and the [Princess] smiled and winced again as her lip split. She dabbed at it, then looked down anxiously at Mrsha. But all the girl wrote was…
You found something you had to do too, Mom? How does it feel?
Lyonette felt her hair and gazed into Mrsha’s cup of water. She couldn’t see well, and no one was rushing to hand her a mirror, but it didn’t matter. It wasn’t quite like greying of hair; more like a spiderweb of grey in her beautiful red hair. Much like her skin, and…Mrsha peered up. Lyonette’s left eye had a crack, and the iris of that eye was grey.
“Better me than Erin. I’ll be fine. I will be.”
The [Cracked Princess] smiled again, and Mrsha hugged her. Ilvriss opened his mouth, and both glared at him, defying him to speak. After a second, he bowed, and Lyonette whispered.
“Now, I apologize but it truly was a night to remember. Now for Tessa. Wall Lord, will you tarry a moment longer? We must go as soon as we are able, but we must have a place for her, too when we arrive. I shall send word when to meet us. However, we have been remiss, you and I.”
She met his eyes, and the Drake nodded. He murmured.
“Yes, we have. What can we do this time to avoid the same tragedies as before?”
Lyonette tapped her lip once, with a finger that shook. She tried to make it stop, then just smiled as Mrsha helped her still it. She whispered softly.
“I don’t know. And it seems so silly, but we have forgotten this thing in all our bleeding and patching our wounds. I need to…to build her a proper room. To see how you treat what she’s going through. But mostly? I think we need a [Thought Healer]. Let’s find one.”
She looked around, and the Wall Lord opened his mouth to protest or downplay the notion. Then he looked around too and tried to count—who might not need one. He gazed into his cup of water. Mrsha held up a card.
Good idea, Mother. I think everyone but me needs one.
The [Princess] and her daughter giggled until they fell over laughing. Then they rose, to plan and make ready. To rescue a Named-rank adventurer. Lyonette shielded her eyes as the first ray of light broke through the rains of Liscor. A moment of sunshine.
It looked like another fine day.

Interlude - Erin (2025-09-06)

These days, you didn’t have to wake up at dawn to avoid accidentally rousing her. But there was still a trick to it, and the trick was to not get…emotional.
Which was hard, in a way. Because if you were waking up early, it was to talk about her, and the moment you felt a tiny bit sad, she’d start to wake up. But it also meant you couldn’t be grumpy about the hour or stub a toe.
There was a trick to keeping yourself feeling neutral. Not empty, but just zen. And Ulvama had to draw on her training from the Molten Stones tribe to keep her in that mode. Training from when she hadn’t been sure if she’d be a [Witch] or another kind of spellcaster.
It was seven o’clock, and it wasn’t hard to wake up at that hour, even if she liked to lie abed and pretended to sleep when Erin got up. The Hobgoblin sat up in the tent on the back of the slumbering Corumdon Beetle, and this time, she avoided the ball of fur slumbering to her right. Across from her, Erin was sleeping with Matha and Mera in cots on the other four corners of the tent woven out of fresh leaves and blades of grass.
The [Angry Druid], Vrilla, had enchanted it all for them as a parting gift when they’d left the village of Dretonamis. Vrilla hadn’t made much of it at first beyond scolding Bowom to ‘behave’, but then she’d cupped his head in her hands and given the surprised [Mad Doctor] a kiss on the lips.
Like someone gave to someone they’d never see again. Then, Ulvama had known they were doing a terrible thing, encouraging so many Fraerlings to leave their homes. They’d brought death with them after all despite their best intentions.
It made the [Shaman] upset. But the Fraerlings just laughed at her. They were leaving home, chasing an adventure.
‘Better to be alive than pretending it.’ That was Bowom’s turn of phrase. And he was one of the Fraerlings who got up early like this.
Not Matha or Mera. They’d tried including the brawling duo, but Mera had about as much control over her emotions as the Battle Hamster. Ulvama edged around him, taking care not to step on him. One wrong foot and he’d rouse everyone in the convoy, not just Erin.
She had to hop off of the Corumdon Beetle’s back after that, down to the tents below. Almost everyone was asleep; they’d been marching or riding all day, and the giant Aphids were also napping.
Only a few Fraerlings didn’t camp with some sort of protective covering. One of them was Eurise, who could lie down wherever he wanted, bereft of a blanket, and sleep. He was already waiting for her as Bowom rolled out of his tents. Literally rolled…he grinned, but suppressed his own sense of amusement, which suggested he wasn’t actually that amused, just trying to get Ulvama to crack.
She waved at them, and the trio were joined by Roja, one of the [Explorers] who’d agreed to go just as far as the nearest Fraerling city to give everyone an escort. Like Eurise, she couldn’t abandon home that lightly.
In an hour, they’d all pretend to wake up. Then they’d have some mudroot tea, seasoned with nali-sticks, and get moving. Before that, they spoke. Bowom had a map out as he sat up.
“I think we’re a day away from Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. It’s not the biggest city, but it’s the closest. They should have a suite of facilities far beyond what we have in our villages, at least. If there’s no better [Healer], I’ll take my best shot at her the moment we get in. They are expecting us, right, Eurise?”
The Level 50+ [Explorer] shrugged, scratching at his spidersilk vest. He wasn’t openly concerned, but then, Ulvama couldn’t always read his steady face. He had seen worse than this, so he leaked no emotions out.
“I sent a tamed Dragonfly, but we’ve got no one I’d risk on the flight itself. It didn’t come back. Could be they sent it on to another destination or it got eaten.”
Bowom grunted.
“Well, they’ll have decent [Alchemists]. But I do think we need a Level 50+ one, which I don’t recall there being one in Lemoste. A city with everything we could ask for and a Last Box would be…Konor Amongst Pines. Have I mentioned how much I hate our naming conventions yet?”
Ulvama thought it was very Goblin-like, but she just nodded. Roja was having the hardest time keeping level emotionally. Ulvama cast a little spell of [Calm], and the [Explorer] nodded at her.
“It’s nearly eight o’clock these days. How fast is it getting worse, Bowom? Give us a real answer.”
The [Mad Doctor] scratched at his head.
“It’s a miracle she survived that much magical radiation. But again, I doubted it was that to begin with. It’s not my field; I can stitch limbs onto people, but the soul…that one’s hard. How bad was she coughing, Ulvama?”
“Lots in the night sometimes. For thirty minutes? Then she’d stop. Four times?”
Bowom tugged on his chin, thinking.
“Well, we don’t have enough data. Keep listening. If she stops breathing or goes low-air again, we’ll consider that another sign her deterioration is accelerating. My guess is that it’ll be a host of symptoms until total bodily failure.”
No one reacted. Ulvama kept her emotions in her chest. First the damage from the battle at sea, now this.
“What about closing the crack-thing? That’s easiest.”
Bowom shook his head as Roja demanded that.
“Good way to get a real horror. Think, Roja. If I split you open and sewed an ant into your chest, what would happen? Maybe it stabilizes you. Maybe you reject it. Worst case is that you accept it and it starts taking over. Or you’re just not the person you were before the operation.”
Silence. Eurise spat onto the ground; he’d been chewing on a bit of seed.
“We’re reaching Lemoste today. I could run ahead or have Zemmy or Mera do it if you need it, Bowom.”
The [Mad Doctor] was cool as could be, and not for the first time, Ulvama was grateful he had decided to come on their trip. Without him, it would be just her, and she couldn’t help Erin.
She wasn’t…the right level. It was tearing her up a bit, and she could tell because there was a flicker of wakefulness from her charms. Erin was getting up. Eurise’s eyes flicked to Ulvama, but he just nodded, and Bowom murmured.
“Don’t agitate the patient. Every time she gets upset, she gets worse. Alright, she’s up? Keep her from using her fire or craft. The color-Skills seem to be just f—”
He stopped talking.
They all did. Ulvama’s eyes grew wide, and she turned, but then she halted. Eurise stopped chewing on his mouthful of seeds. He ruffled a hand through his hair, then nodded.
“That’s good. New. She’s mending.”
“You can’t make a medical diagnosis; I’m the [Mad Doctor] here!”
Bowom snapped at him. He cleared his throat, and his bug-leg tapped its foot on the ground several times. He squinted at the tent.
“Yep. That’s positive. But what was the trigger? Did she level? Has to be—”
“You’re sure?”
Roja gave the two Fraerling men a suspicious glance, but Eurise just gestured at Ulvama.
“I was wondering—I thought maybe because they were Tallfolk, it was different. But it’s just what I thought. Erin’s no [Warrior]. Nor is she tough enough for her level. This is what was missing.”
Ulvama said nothing at all. She just blinked, and it washed over her. A feeling emanating from the tent, waking the other Fraerlings and even the beetle, who lurched to his feet blearily.
It wasn’t an aura. But it was coming from Erin. It felt like…that tingle you got when a lightning spell passed too close by you, but in a good way. Like the energy from rest, when you sprang out of bed, coming like a beacon from a lighthouse. Eurise nodded.
“We’re going to have to get her to turn that off. Used to be I didn’t know how either. I had to fight everything in a mile’s radius.”
“What, can old Zinni do that too?”
Eurise nodded at Roja.
“Sure can. Remember when her herd came calling? That feeling like a stampede’s bearing down on you? Mostly, she just uses it to keep her animals reasonable. If you ever hit 50, you’ll probably get kicked out of the village before your presence makes everyone go running off on expeditions.”
He nudged Roja, and the [Explorer] turned and glanced at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin was smiling again. But her eyes were slightly tearful as the sun rose.
Ulvama didn’t know how or why. Bowom just shook his head.
“Terrible [Innkeeper]. Making us all worry and the nice Goblin cry. Okay, investigation mode. Don’t miss anything. This is only circumstantial evidence…”
But he felt it too. When Ulvama climbed back on the Corumdon Beetle’s back, she saw a slightly sweat-soaked [Innkeeper] rubbing at her back. Erin Solstice pushed her hair out of her face and coughed once into a fist. But then she smiled.
“Hey, Ulvama. I dunno what happened, but I’m feeling better. Great, actually.”
The Hobgoblin managed to raise her brows skeptically.
“You sure? All I see is a sweaty [Innkeeper].”
Erin sniffed under one armpit and recoiled.
“Pleh! Gross! But I do feel better. See?”
She got up as Matha sat up sleepily, and Mera jumped out of bed in a flying kick. The Battle Hamster kicked her in the face, and she landed, swearing. Erin leapt off her bed, or tried to. She planted her legs, and Ulvama saw her shoot up—hit the ceiling of the tent—and punch through the top.
“Aaaaaah! What the—”
The Hobgoblin gazed up as the [Innkeeper] flew into the air. Mera and the Battle Hamster stopped punching each other, and then Ulvama did grin once.
“I’m falling! I’m falling! Oh wait, it’s not gonna h—”
Erin hit the Corumdon Beetle’s shell with her head, bounced off, and she crashed into the campfire, scattering little embers. Then the Beetle stepped on her by accident.
But she was just fine.
Fantastic.
 
——
 
“Hey, Ulvama, Erin’s looking great, isn’t she? Seedwrap sandwich?”
Matha commented as they were stopping for midday lunch. They were watching Erin squaring off with Zemmy and Mera. Ulvama took the sandwich as the Fraerling sat right next to her.
“Mm. Better.”
Matha energetically munched on the mashed seeds combined with bits of fruit and nut-berry to make a paste that you wrapped an edible leaf or dough around. It was Fraerling travel food and not the best, but hardly tasteless. She leaned casually against Ulvama. The Hobgoblin didn’t pay attention.
“I’m feeling great! Just try kicking me this time, Zemmy! Just not in the face!”
The [Innkeeper] was hopping from foot to foot and making beckoning motions—right until Zemmy launched into a flying [Double Kick]. Erin blocked the first one, but the second knocked her down. She was getting up as Fraerlings laughed or cheered. Zemmy tried to stomp on her when Mera tackled him from the side.
It was seeming like the regular free-for-all with Erin and the two [Brawlers]. They were evenly matched. Or no…Ulvama thought Erin was worse than the Level 40 [Brawlers]. In an actual fight, they’d kick her around unless she used her flames or witchcraft on them, and they were wise to her tricks these days. She was still an [Innkeeper], and they were dedicated combat classes.
So she was probably the weakest one, but it was still fairly even until…Erin was running away from Mera, who was on the offensive, when it happened. Her legs seemed to speed up, and her feet began leaving tracks in the ground, flinging dirt around.
“Ooh, her Galas is activating.”
Matha shaded her eyes, then ducked a clod of dirt that Erin had accidentally kicked at her. The [Innkeeper] was suddenly outpacing the swearing Mera, and she whirled.
“[Relc Kick]!”
She missed as Mera jumped over the simple stomach-kick, but Erin wasn’t done. She spun, then launched herself off the ground in a spinning kick towards Zemmy. He blocked it and swept her other leg.
“She’s going Galas! Get her, Mera!”
The two [Brawlers] teamed up, trying to keep Erin from getting to her feet. She cursed and kicked at them, and Ulvama nodded.
So far, the Galas muscles seemed to be only activating in Erin’s legs. They weren’t that strong according to Eurise, but the fact Erin had any meant that she’d kick into a kind of second gear after she warmed up. When she was ‘feeling cool’, in Erin’s own words, she could perform acts of strength that were ridiculous to Ulvama.
And it seemed…Erin’s legs were activating a lot faster. She kicked Zemmy off her, and he bounced off the Corumdon Beetle’s shell. Then she was swinging energetically at Mera.
“Aha! Got you! Got—”
Mera tossed a handful of sand in her face, and Erin swallowed half of it. The ensuing scrap ended up with Erin tapping her hand on the ground, her arm in a pin.
“Argh! I thought for sure I’d be super strong. What’s going on?”
She leapt up, peeved. Mera was feeling a tooth Erin had punched.
“I dunno, Erin. You’re not that much better at fighting, even if your legs went off sooner.”
“What, you’re sure? Not even a bit?”
The [Innkeeper] was crestfallen. Mera nodded, then thumped her own chest.
“On the other hand, I’m feeling great. I was all grumpy because you kept coughing in your sleep last night, but now it’s like I had that coffee stuff you pulled from your Skill! Right, Zemmy?”
“That’s right! What is it, your aura?”
Erin twisted around as if trying to see something.
“No. I don’t feel it. Well, I do feel good, but I don’t feel…huh. Darn, I wish I could sense whatever it is you do. It sounds cool. Hey, Ulvama. Hey, you. What’s lunch?”
She bounded over, and Matha waved her wrap at Erin.
“Seedwraps again. Want the rest of mine, Erin? I’ll get another.”
“Uh. I’ll get my own.”
Erin sat down, and Matha leapt up to get her one anyways. Ulvama poked at her hair, which was covered in dirt.
“You’re gross and sweaty now. Go away.”
“Hey! I don’t smell that bad do—ugh. Anyone got soap?”
Ulvama twiddled her fingers, and a rain of water appeared and doused Erin. Spluttering, the [Innkeeper] scrubbed at her head until she was more clean, then Matha handed her a wrap.
“Thanks…Matha.”
“No problem! So, didja figure out how you got better? Hey!”
The ‘hey’ was because the Battle Hamster had parked himself next to Ulvama with Matha’s seedwrap. She tried to push him aside and reclaim her food, but he just bit at her—so she slunk around to Erin’s other side and tried to scootch onto the twig they were sitting on. Erin sighed, but she just turned to Ulvama.
“No levels. No magic—I was wondering if it was something I ate?”
Ulvama was wondering if Bowom had slipped something into Erin’s food, too. But she just chewed on her wrap.
“You’re better if you’re better. Just say when you get worse.”
“Sure…but this feels pretty permanent. I mean, I dunno, I can tell I’ve still got a crack, but it’s not like I’m splitting apart. It’s more stable.”
Erin poked at her chest gingerly, then glanced up and hurriedly added.
“Not that I was splitting apart, but—it’s a lot better. So I guess I’m on the mend! Told you I’d be fine.”
She gave Ulvama a smile that was trying a bit too hard, but the [Shaman] just glanced at Bowom. He gave her two tentative thumbs up.
Why, no one knew, not even Erin. But the convoy was all smiles, younger Fraerlings and older ones returning to their adventure. To Lemoste-Under-Cliffs and beyond!
 
——
 
“Oh, that’s not good.”
When Bowom said that, everyone reached for a weapon. But he was merely the first to see it, standing on the Corumdon Beetle’s head as they rounded a huge cliffside—which was really a giant rock—and came to the actual cliff of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs, the Fraerling City.
An ancient tree petrified into stone, leaning against the cliffs that gave the city its name. A secretive Fraerling city, the first that Erin and Ulvama had ever seen in person. Only, it wasn’t so hidden right now.
Ulvama stirred as Matha’s three-stringed guitar playing came to a strangled stop. The former [Raider] rose to her feet, and she was speechless as color drained from her face. Eurise took one look at the city and snapped.
“Erin, Roja, stay with the convoy! I’m heading in.”
He was a blur already. Ulvama just gazed at the huge shards of broken stone lying on the ground. Then the colorful, exposed city that was visible from its wrecked walls. Bowom muttered.
“[Adjust Eyes]…well, they’re not all dead. I see lots of movement. Pyres? That’s either whatever attacked them or we’re walking into a real problem. Slow the caravan!”
“Shouldn’t we go after Eurise?”
Someone demanded. Zemmy was ready to run, but Bowom shouted back.
“Not until we know what the problem is! Hold it! I said hold it—”
A dozen Fraerlings on the backs of Aphids were bounding forwards to see more. They only halted when Erin put two fingers in her mouth and whistled. Since she utterly failed at that, Ulvama did it for her.
The Fraerlings halted and turned—Erin stood up and beckoned.
“Back, everyone! Zemmy, Mera, get over here! You heard Eurise!”
The two [Brawlers] hesitated—then reversed direction. Again, Ulvama glanced at Erin. It wasn’t quite her aura. But her voice had that ringing command in it.
Just as well. By the time they’d reformed, the group was already noticed. Eurise had halted in the distance, a tiny speck, but the city of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs was far from a ruin. The proof of that was a giant frame appearing in the air with the face of a Tallguard Fraerling with a mithril helmet and a scar across his face. He shouted.
“Halt where you are, travellers! Show us your eyes! Keep approaching and you will be cast upon!”
Ulvama saw his eyes flicker to her and widen.
“We’ve got more infec—wait, green skin? Drop the illusions! Is that some kind of polymorphing…? Every one of you, show me your eyes!”
The Fraerlings hesitated, but then complied. Ulvama held her own eyes open as the Fraerling inspected them all. Bowom called out.
“What kind of plague or malady are we dealing with here? We’re from Dretonamis! That’s Eurise the Explorer up there! We should be expected?”
The Fraerling Tallguard blinked, then cursed.
“Dretonamis? You look clear—what’s with her?”
He jabbed a finger at Ulvama, and Bowom glanced sideways.
“Her? Shrunk Goblin.”
“Shrunk—is this some kind of joke? If it’s not, come on through! So long as you’re not bringing actual Goblin Tallfolk…”
The convoy moved forwards slowly, passing by ashy cairns over churned earth. There were huge craters in it, and Ulvama felt her skin crawling as she stared at the city ahead. But the more she looked, the more intact it felt. She’d seen Paeth’s destruction. Certainly, the Fraerlings who were already scanning Eurise seemed numerous enough.
They took an extra fifteen minutes on Ulvama and Erin, but they were willing to chat. The Tallguard in command was Commander Leafin. His first words to Eurise and Bowom were ominous.
“If you’re searching for support, we can’t send it. We will take your village in if you’ve evacuated it. Tell me you weren’t overrun. We threw a warning back via your Dragonfly, but it didn’t seem like you were in the path of the swarms.”
Roja shook her head.
“It never made it back. What happened? We never heard a call for help!”
Commander Leafin cursed.
“We would have sent messages, but our Farspeaker passed. Every [Mage] not conscripted for battle has been running cloaking and barrier spells nonstop, or just casting [Restoration]. Listen, the Architects will want to talk to you when they can, but we could use anyone over Level 40 who’s willing to fight.”
“We’ve got several combat-classes. Fight what?”
Eurise gestured at Zemmy and Mera, but not at Erin. The Tallguard gave him an expression of envy and incredulity.
“The ants.”
There was a beat before Erin began cursing.
 
——
 
One of the Architects, Vision Tiregal, was a young Fraerling. Tallguard. Newly elected to his post. He wasn’t the highest-ranked, but he had, apparently, won the election that had occurred last week.
“The city called for it after three of our Architects perished. Lemoste must rebuild far stronger than before. I am calling for Fraerling villages to relocate nearer to us if they are not heavily entrenched like Dretonamis—frankly, I hope you will help us stay and clear out the rest of the hives, Eurise.”
The [Explorer] was walking around the outside of the opened Fraerling city, staring up at the buildings and floors within. It looked like an ant nest as well, albeit far more advanced, which made their foes all the more ironic.
“Of course I will. But how did they ever get through the walls? We saw one of those magical ants—they’re the ones, right?”
Vision Tiregal nodded.
“The Dyed Lands. We heard warnings from Tallguard outposts, but we never thought we’d run into more than a handful of monsters. The ants seem to have exited en-masse and cut a path all the way here. Not even the Great Companies were stopping them…they might have been embattled. We don’t know, only that this was where they honed in on. It could be they sensed our magical signature despite our Allotment falling within range or something else—”
“Excuse me, but I’ve seen Fraerlings fight. How did they break into the city? Don’t you have all kinds of magic and stuff? We killed one of those queens, and they were deadly, but…”
Erin interrupted. She gestured at the city and the Fraerlings on guard-duty, who were armed with crossbows and wands and who had sightlines across the entire cleared fields on anything coming their way.
They’d already seen Lemoste shooting down an opportunistic bird with a long-range fireball spell that had blown off its head. A team of Fraerlings was now going to pick up the corpse, food being one of the things the city needed at the moment. But this was almost like a siege.
Tiregal glanced at Erin, but her Human-ness seemed unremarkable at the moment. Ulvama he was peering at, but he replied in a low voice.
“We had only three individuals above Level 50 in the city when they attacked. Only one combat-adjacent. Over 48 above Level 40, but…we’ve killed 56 of the magical ant queens so far. We think the swarm is mostly broken, but they just overwhelmed our defenses with sheer numbers. We were vaporizing them with [Barrier of Eradication] spells tuned to insects, and they just kept coming until we ran out of mana.”
Fifty-six queens? Erin and Ulvama looked at each other as the gravity of Lemoste’s war sunk in. Eurise simply grimaced.
“You should have sent for us. I’m willing to headhunt the rest of the queens if you can pinpoint them.”
Architect Tiregal gave Eurise a weary smile and nod.
“It’s been four days of fighting, Explorer. You’d have missed the worst of it anyways, and if your village was next—we were trying to lure them away from us the entire time. Not again. The first thing I want to do is re-establish our Crelerbane Armor forces. However, we have to find or buy the Adamantium…Oierdressql had Crelerbane Armor and it still fell. Paeth and Oierdressql were wake-up calls, but we didn’t heed them. You’re welcome to our city, such as it is, but anything you can contribute is welcome.”
“We’ll get to fighting, then. Zemmy and Mera are Level 40+, and Roja is as well. Alright, anyone willing to fight, step up!”
Eurise shouted, and Fraerlings abandoned their convoy. Bowom cracked his fingers.
“I’m Bowom. If you have injured or people missing limbs who don’t mind new ones, sign me up.”
Erin was turning.
“I can go with you, Eurise. And Ulvama—”
She hesitated. Ulvama hadn’t raised her hand. The thought of fighting another sea of insects made her shudder. Eurise glanced at her, then pointed.
“You’re still not necessarily well, Erin. Stick with Ulvama. Matha, you’re in charge of these two. Keep them out of trouble.”
“Got it, Eurise!”
She saluted, and the Fraerling man rubbed at his chin.
“We could use the Beetle and Hamster if they’re willing. We’ll keep them out of harm’s way, but a flier and a Battle Hammie could be useful.”
The Battle Hamster was already in line with Zemmy and Mera, and so the Human and Goblin saw the Corumdon Beetle’s tent removed. They stood there as Vision Tiregal gave them directions to the forces coordinating the counter-offensive.
Commander Leafin was clearly relieved to be sending Eurise to the forces on the offensive, but before he dashed off to send word, he stopped them all.
“The worst part about the ants isn’t just their numbers or how much damage they can do with their pincers. It’s the Queens. If you see a Fraerling out there, make ‘em show you their eyes. The Queens…possess Fraerlings they capture. It’s easy to tell, mostly, and they can be saved. Just kill the Queen. But until then, they’ll act as if they’re on the ants’ side. Don’t let your guard down.”
Erin felt a chill run up and down her spine. She rubbed at her chest and remembered the queen reaching for her when they had fought. Ulvama was looking at her, and any inclination Erin had had to insist on fighting was gone.
Eurise just nodded.
“I’ve seen that kind of thing before. I don’t plan on letting them get to me. We’ll strike every queen ant we find. Got any fliers?”
“Yes, and levitation spells if not that.”
“Works for me. Drop and chop.”
He projected a weary and grim competence that had everyone looking at him as a leader. Erin felt like he could have rallied everyone here if he needed to. So, that was a Level 50 [Warrior] holding nothing back. She wondered…what Saliss was like when he really got mad.
She’d never seen it. Not even with the Wyverns.
At any rate, she and Ulvama had to ask more questions of Tiregal about the ant queens. He was frank.
“Most of our survivors are going through intensive treatment to make sure they’re not still influenced, but their basic summary was akin to hypnosis or being…absorbed into the ant swarms once they were brought before a queen ant. Some power of theirs—again, from the Dyed Lands. These are the most deadly ants I’ve ever heard of in the entire world. Magical army ants don’t even come close.”
For all that, the Hobgoblin felt like the situation was under control—the Fraerlings being on the offensive and unwilling to let the ants regroup seemed to mean that unless there was another huge wave of them coming, most of the magical ant swarms were reduced. Though they might still be horrific threats on their own…she feared they might become an apex predator group in this region, but that was a reality the city would have to deal with as it happened.
Only when Commander Leafin came back did Ulvama get worried.
Because three dozen armed Tallguard were with him as he whispered to Tiregal. The Vision looked apologetically at Bowom.
“I’m afraid we have a problem. We’ll have to detain you for now. You are under arrest.”
“What?”
Erin shielded Ulvama with one hand, and her eyes glinted dangerously. Leafin glanced at her.
“Level 50.”
The Fraerlings around her tensed, and Bowom spluttered.
“This is outrageous! We’re all trying to help here! Miss Erin and Miss Ulvama were trusted by three Fraerling villages and their protectors! I object! How dare you, sir!”
He jabbed a finger at Vision Tiregal, and the young Fraerling man handed him something. Bowom snatched it, unrolled what looked like an old scroll, and hesitated.
“Ah.”
“Bowom the Splicer, you are under arrest for crimes of medical malpractice in three cities and sixteen villages. Given the circumstances, we might actually need your help…the Architects are waiting for an interview. Will you come quietly? It’s just you under arrest.”
Commander Leafin eyed Erin and Ulvama as the [Innkeeper] hesitated. Everyone eyed Bowom, and he raised a finger.
“I object! I’m the medical supervisor in charge of this dying Human and—damn, I thought those things were expired. It’s been twenty years!”
He sighed as they marched him off. Erin and Ulvama gazed at his back as he waved.
“Don’t worry, I’m sure we can sort this out! It wasn’t anything too hein—well, we’ll sort this out!”
He winked a few times, and then it was just the two of them, all their luggage, and Matha. The [Raider] spoke after a few seconds.
“Who is Bowom!?”
Nobody knew. Ulvama picked up the scroll Bowom had tossed over his shoulder and read it. After a moment, she showed Erin the list of crimes. The [Innkeeper] sucked in her breath.
“Ooh.”
 
——
 
“So, I think I could join the fighting against the queens. Burn them a bit.”
After about forty minutes of touring the city of Lemoste, Erin floated the idea past Ulvama. The [Shaman] regarded her.
“What if they do that thing where they try to take over you again?”
“…Right. Maybe not the queens?”
Do you have to fight?
Erin was restless, though. She murmured as they walked around the streets, where elevators that worked on some kind of gas propelled Fraerlings up and down. Only, half were broken because the city’s exterior had been breached, so Fraerlings were using [Lightbridge] spells or just newly-built stairs.
They had a shellshocked look. Or a determined one, like Goblins after a terrible battle. No one was able to chat; even Ulvama was only getting passing glances, not the people in Dretonamis with questions.
“This city’s so sad. I can’t believe they destroyed it. I always thought it’d be so much…cooler than home.”
Matha was the one the most shaken up by seeing the devastation. Erin and Ulvama glanced at each other. The [Shaman] leaned over.
“I feel grief. Sadness. Mostly—shock. Apparently, not many civilians died. Not like Oierdressql.”
Erin nodded tightly.
“That’s good. I sense the same thing. They’re working hard on rebuilding. It’s stressful, though. I think…didn’t the Vision tell us most of their food got eaten?”
Just like the ants to steal that. They’d swarmed over the area before retreating, so a lot of Lemoste’s goods were gone. Even so, Erin murmured.
“They’re determined, though. Poor kids are the most shocked. Like her.”
She jerked her head at Matha, and Ulvama recalled that most Fraerlings in cities wouldn’t be used to monsters at all. Unlike the villages…the [Shaman] nodded. Then she grabbed Erin’s hand so the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t run off to combat.
“You’re resting.”
“But I could help—”
“No!”
The Hobgoblin was so loud and fierce everyone turned, and she lowered her voice.
“We can help here. Okay? Somehow.”
Thus began their own part in aiding Lemoste. A harder task than it seemed.
 
——
 
Even after a battle, Lemoste was still far, far too advanced to need the things Goblins would. When Ulvama found a [Healer] with Matha’s help, they gazed up at the big building filled with magic. A weary woman came out to meet them.
“Cutting bandages? Poultices? Thank you, er, Miss. But we don’t need that. We have a [Mage] casting [Restoration] once every hour; if we need to, we’ll have the mana charge increased, but the worst of the casualties are dealt with. Unless you have any regeneration spells or Skills?”
They did not. The [Healer] shook her head.
“Hunting would be best, but the Tallguard want to avoid bringing animals or predators until we have a wall back. So you’d have to ask them. You’re from Dretonamis, right? Are you wearing a costume or did you polymorph yourself, miss? I love the magical signs.”
She gestured with a wand at Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin hesitated.
“No, I’m a Goblin. Just…smaller.”
“Oh. What?”
The [Healer] blinked, then leaned forwards.
“That’s incredible magic! I’d love to ask—but I have a shift to get back to. You wouldn’t happen to know if there’s someone who can do high-level healing amongst your group? I was told there was, but they’re not here!”
Erin cleared her throat with a hesitant smile.
“We, uh, we do have someone like that. His name is Bowom, but I think he got arrested. You wouldn’t happen to know him, would you?”
The [Healer] blinked. Then her face turned grave.
“Bowom? He’s still alive? I studied his case in school! That insane—of all the times! We might actually need him, but dead gods. Is he under lock and key? If not, we need to keep him away from the patients!”
She seemed ready to run until they assured her he’d been arrested. The [Healer] muttered.
“I have to tell our director now! Thank you—er, Miss Goblin. You two. If you can do any magic, we could use some of that!”
Then she was running off. Ulvama wondered exactly what kind of experiments these had been, but regardless, she realized her help to the city would have to be less traditional. She turned to Erin.
“We should do magic to cheer people up! Just a bit of it, you know?”
She flicked her fingers. Erin was nodding.
“Yeah, but I don’t have much happy witchcraft around. Tons of remorse, actually, but that’s not gonna cheer anyone up. And after Pallass, I don’t think just making a flame would be the best.”
Certainly not. Ulvama gestured at their packs.
“What if…we make some little happy charms? Give them out?”
She was thinking of the shellshocked Fraerling children. Someone had to; it was her job, even if this wasn’t her place. Erin scratched at her head.
“What kind of charms do you give to kids? Magic balls like Mrsha has?”
Ulvama stared at her friend. Erin raised her hands defensively.
“Hey, don’t look at me like that! The Great Witches didn’t teach me kid-charms. We never got to that segment.”
 
——
 
[Shamans] were different from [Witches]. They were, by nature, more communal than [Witches], who existed around communities, but didn’t have to have them. A [Witch] could be reclusive; a [Shaman] had to have a tribe.
Ulvama’s connection to the Flooded Waters tribe was weak, so she had to draw mostly on her own mana and what she could get. Accordingly, her charms weren’t the strongest, but she showed Erin and Matha how it was done.
“For little babies, you get a bit of dust and infuse it with sleepy. Just a teensy bit so they stop waking and crying. For bigger children, a ribbon like so, see? And you tie it like this—”
She made a complicated pattern that neither Erin nor Matha could follow, and the little flower-ribbon was done.
“Then put it in child’s hair.”
“What’s that do?”
Matha scratched at her back, seeming out-of-sorts and upset. Ulvama gave her a tight-lipped smile, trying not to show her teeth.
“When children run around, a tiny bit of their energy goes—”
She waved her hands around.
“Makes people feel better.”
“Neat! How many can you make?”
Ulvama pointed down at the ground.
“Maybe…four? But if we give them out, I’ll make more!”
That was how it worked, you see. Just like how [Witches] harvested their craft to give it away, [Shamans] relied on the people around them to give them scraps of something. Hope, for instance, like when Mrsha had told Ulvama about Krshia making a ball of it to toss into the sky for Liscor’s siege. Primitive work, but the Gnoll must have had training as an actual [Shaman] to do that. It was rather impressive, actually.
The [Shaman] gathered up all the spare food they had—mostly seedwraps—and made a basket with the four charms. Then she went to give them out. Therein lay the problem.
Ulvama got…well…
A bit shy.
 
——
 
A pair of Fraerlings hard at work sawing and sanding pieces of wood were joining the reconstruction effort. They were [Woodworkers] with a unique focus: joinery. Thus, they had no nails, but were making wood carved into the correct angles to slot together and form natural connections. It would be just as strong, if not more so, than something with nails or screws, but it was far more involved and precise.
So they didn’t have time for their two children, who were about and underfoot, sometimes running to get things, but, well, distracting.
When they saw the three visitors, one looked up.
“Unless you’re here for a delivery or pickup, we can’t take orders. Everything’s for the new wall. Oh—”
He stared at the Hobgoblin hiding behind the [Innkeeper] and Matha and poking them repeatedly, then nudged the other Fraerling next to him.
“Raan. Raan, look.”
The other [Carpenter] was swearing at a blister on his palms, then noticed Ulvama. He blinked.
“What the—”
“Hello! I’m Erin, and this is Matha, a reformed [Raider], and this is Ulvama! We’re from Dretonamis! We just were coming by with some charms and food if you wanted some? We arrived and didn’t know about the, uh, battle.”
The [Innkeeper]’s smile made both Fraerlings put down their tools. Matha half-glared at Erin as she shook the first [Carpenter]’s hands.
“Very pleased to meet you. Is that a seedwrap? Ah, we can take that. Rina, Rousy—you want food?”
They turned, but their children were suddenly hiding behind the huge joists of wood they were working on. The first Fraerling, Zignem, gestured, but they were staring at Ulvama. He turned to her.
“Are you the Goblin I heard someone talking about? Tallfolk in Lemoste. It’s been an age since then.”
“Hello, yes. I’m friendly. We have charms.”
She muttered so quietly he almost couldn’t hear her. Matha took over, explaining what the charms did as the [Carpenters] chewed on their snacks, asking how Dretonamis was. When they were assured that the village was well, one sighed in relief.
“That’s good. I was worried—I’ve never seen such a thing in my life. One moment they were ringing alarms, the next I saw on the exterior vision spells the ants pouring over the cliffs. Flying down—just waves upon waves of them. We were all heading to the emergency evacuation sites, but I thought—”
His partner nudged him as one of the Fraerling kids who’d been edging closer to Matha, waving a seedwrap at them, froze up. Then they looked so afraid that he halted. Erin hesitated, glanced at Ulvama, and then smiled.
“But you made it. Now everything’s going to be okay now that Eurise the Explorer’s here. Have you heard of him?”
The children hadn’t, but they glanced up as Zignem exclaimed.
“Eurise the Explorer? He’s here? We could have used him during the siege! He could probably wipe out the rest of the queens—I’ve heard he once killed a panther with his bare hands.”
“Oh, we had this huge snuffolomonster he beat up in like three punches. Plus, we’ve got his apprentices, Zemmy and Mera! They’re great. Every time they meet, they hit each other hard as they can. They’re already over Level 40, and they’re not even, like, eighteen yet!”
Erin made some punches in the air, and the mood lightened. The [Carpenters]’ kids edged forwards as she waved something at them.
“Plus, my friend Ulvama here made some ribbons filled with lucky Goblin magic! I think it’s lucky. Might just be Goblin magic. Want one?”
“What’s it do?”
When the two Fraerlings heard what the ribbons did, they let their kids debate who wanted to wear it. Then they directed the trio down the street.
“If it’s noisy babies you want, try Eitine. Her kid’s four, but he saw some of the ants—thank you for the food.”
“…welcome.”
“Thank you for chatting!”
Erin waved at the two and then at the kids. One of them called out.
“Is she a real Goblin?”
She pointed at Ulvama and appeared nervous. Erin turned.
“That’s right. And I’m…Human. Arghablaghblegh!”
She waved her arms, and the girl stared at her. Erin lowered her arms as one of the [Carpenters] began to choke on his snack with laughter.
“You don’t look Human.”
“…What’re Humans supposed to look like then?”
Erin lowered her arms, red-faced, and the girl informed her knowingly.
“They’re supposed to be tall as trees! And go around seducing things! Like trees. That’s how you get Dryads.”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth, and Matha was laughing too hard to let her get a word in edgewise.
 
——
 
The second parent they came to, Miss Eitine, was better. But when she saw Ulvama, she gasped—the Hobgoblin retreated nervously as she held the basket in her hands. Erin snatched it.
“Hello! Non-seductive Human here, and Goblin! Wanna seedwrap? And a charm for crying babies?”
“…What?”
The Fraerling woman warmed to them considerably more after they explained what they had. She smiled at Ulvama.
“Thank you. I would invite you all in for refreshments, but—”
She gestured at the half-destroyed home she was trying to repair. She was an [Enchanter], but visibly tired.
“I’m sorry, I gave all my mana for the defenses. If you have any to spare, you should do the same.”
“What’s that?”
Erin blinked, and the woman pointed.
“Just down there, you see the impromptu mana circles? It’s a tank of liquid mana. Every spellcaster with non-essential spellcasting is contributing. We’re using it to fuel all the important spells.”
“We can go there! I’ve got some, though Ulvama’s a bit low right now—can we, uh, help with the house?”
The woman glanced over her shoulder.
“Oh, that? It’ll mend. People won’t…the worst part is all the soundproofing is gone. Thank you for the charm, Miss Goblin. Do you have a name?”
She smiled at Ulvama and the Hobgoblin introduced herself. The mother nodded.
“I have another family who probably has a noisy baby. Thank you for the food—we’re rationing until we have a steady foodsource. As soon as this is done, I’m sure the Tallguard will hunt down a bear, but it’s very welcome. Especially for two Tallfolk! And you.”
Matha got the coolest look of all and hesitated.
“Um. Me?”
“Yes, you. A [Raider]? Shouldn’t you be ashamed of yourself, young woman? It’s one thing to be a [Loner] or to leave your village, but to take from it? Look around you! Fraerling settlements die when we don’t support each other, and that’s the class you decided to take?”
Miss Eitine raised her voice as she gestured around the city. Matha turned beet red, and then she was trying to hide between Erin and Ulvama.
“I gave it up! We’re reformed! I’m sorry!”
She might have gotten the rough side of Eitine’s tongue, but at that moment, her son woke up. She took the dust pouch Ulvama had made.
“I’ll see to him. Thank you for your time!”
“You, uh, give it to him after he falls asleep. Maybe with a big snack and water?”
Ulvama called hesitantly, and the [Enchanter] turned, smiled, and assured her she would. Ulvama smiled back, and Erin slapped Matha on the back.
“I like her. She’s got her priorities straight, unlike Citykiller Matha over here.”
“Oh, c’mon—”
They walked outside and watched as a bunch of broken shingles floated up towards a roof slowly repairing itself. Ulvama shook her head.
“Magic. So powerful.”
“But they didn’t have that many Level 40+ people. More than I think you’d get anywhere but Pallass, but still. It feels like even Fraerling cities lack for high levels. Having one Level 50+ person per village is the big thing.”
Erin observed. Matha sniffed and folded her arms smugly.
“Fraerling villages always have the most amount of high-levels per group. Everyone knows that.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“And the most people stealing from them too. Okay, let’s go help more babies fall asleep!”
 
——
 
Ulvama was perking up by the time they got to the fourth household. People weren’t that alarmed by the Goblin thing any more than they were Erin being Human. In moments like these—
A little Fraerling boy was opening the door of a rather mansion-like interior, despite the humble exterior. A bit of simple dimension-magic—the owner was a snoozing [Baker] with his mouth open in the living room armchair.
“Hey there! Are we coming at a bad time? We have some magic and a snack!”
Erin waved at the boy. He gazed up at her and shook his head.
“Da! Visitors! Da—look—”
He called, and the [Baker] barely stirred. Then the boy glanced over his shoulder, saw Ulvama waving at him and giving him a toothy smile. He froze up—and then started screaming.
“Monster! Monster!”
Ulvama’s stomach lurched. She instantly hid behind Erin, but it was too late. The [Innkeeper] was waving her hands at the boy as he ran back, climbing the stairs and falling.
“No, she’s not a monster! Don’t be racist—aw hells.”
The [Baker] was on his feet, waving a wand around in moments. He turned to his son, who was screaming his way upstairs, and then Erin and Matha. He saw Ulvama, froze, and then exclaimed.
“Richie, it’s not an actual—oh, cats. I’m so sorry, one moment—”
He raced upstairs, and Ulvama heard the screaming boy as her ears drooped. Erin turned to her.
“He didn’t blast us! Matha, you stand back. I’ll just—”
The [Baker] didn’t stop the screaming, but clattered downstairs in a hurry. He’d stowed his wand, to their relief, and he blinked at Ulvama as Erin tried to explain.
“Goblins? In Lemoste? Are there Goblin Tallfolk around?”
“No!”
He grunted.
“We could use them if they’d fight the ants. Listen, my son saw the ants, and he’s had nightmares for months about a monster with sharp teeth living under his bed. Ever since the damn silverfish got in—”
He shuddered. Proportional to a Fraerling’s body, a silverfish was big, and he’d had to beat it to death with a rolling pin after the boy had found it in his closet. As traumas went—you had to admit, that was a good reason to be terrified of monsters.
Erin was very understanding, but she kept glancing at Ulvama. The [Shaman] had closed her mouth and was trying not to scare the boy who was gazing at them from the banister upstairs, shaking with terror. His father thanked her for the charms, but when Ulvama glanced over her shoulder, she could see a pair of little heads vanishing from another house down the street.
She stared down at her feet. Erin kept smiling as she waved up at the boy. Only when the door closed did she look around and whisper.
“Bleh. I hate kids, right?”
Matha nodded.
“Absolutely. Can’t stand the little aphid shits.”
“…Lyonette has a kid. Two kids. They live in my inn.”
“Aw, c’mon. I was agreeing with you that time!”
 
——
 
“So, Ulvama…how’re we doing on the old magic front? Wanna make more charms and get back to it?”
Matha was rolling more seedwraps up, but the Hobgoblin was sitting in their tent, knees curled to her chest.
“Nn.”
She didn’t really make a ‘no’ sound, and Erin hesitated.
“Uh—you hungry, Ulvama?”
“No. No charms, Erin. Just give magic to [Mages].”
Ulvama saw Erin glance at the basket Matha was working on.
“I think that went really well. C’mon, let’s do another ribbon or something.”
“I don’t have enough magic. Too many sad Fraerlings. Not enough goodwill and happiness.”
Even after handing the charms over, it was a bad idea. Ulvama knew they should have just given mana to the defenses. Erin waved her hands at Matha.
“You sure? I think—”
“No. Too tired.”
The Hobgoblin turned to face the wall of the tents. She was tired. It was hard to pull on magic from across the world. Rags’ tribe wasn’t even her tribe, not really. She didn’t know how she’d ever had the energy to cast all that magic when they’d fought the ants.
She just needed to sleep. When Erin tried to get her to have lunch, Ulvama kicked at her leg.
“You go give magic. I go when I wake. Sleeping.”
“What about—”
“Sleeping!”
Ulvama put an aphid-wool pillow over her head. She lay there as Erin retreated and told Matha about the change in plans. The Goblin could hear them whispering.
“What about lunch? I just made more food!”
“We’ll give them out to the [Mages]. Besides, you don’t have a cooking Skill.”
“Yeah, but it’s a seedwrap.”
“Ulvama doesn’t need to eat the same food. C’mon, let’s go.”
They left, and the Hobgoblin went to sleep for a while. When she awoke, she found her stomach growling, but she sat inside for a long time. Eventually, she did have to get up because she wanted food and Erin and Matha weren’t back yet, but she dithered a long time.
 
——
 
When Ulvama came out of their tent, she had on a hood and scarf. That helped a lot; most of the children didn’t flinch when they saw her, and only Fraerlings who noticed her eyes paused.
“We, um, we get food here? Please?”
The Tallguard in line blinked at her.
“Dretonamis’ people? Sure, go on. One ration per person. If you’re getting some for a friend, just say so.”
Ulvama sidled into line. To her relief, the [Chef] at the front was too busy to even do more than glance at her eyes.
“Tomato soup and antloaf. If you really can’t stand the taste of ant, get more soup! It’s the last tomatoes we’ve got until the seeds grow.”
The soup was exceedingly fine. The antloaf…Ulvama munched it down while dipping it in the soup. She was wondering where Erin and Matha were, but the idea of searching the city…Ulvama decided to go back into the tent and take a nap.
Maybe they should have gone to fight the ants. Erin was right. Ulvama curled up in her bedroll.
 
——
 
This wasn’t really a tale about Erin Solstice. But, well, sometimes she made it about herself. She’d been trying not to, after Matha, even when she’d begun to feel…bad.
Lemoste didn’t need trouble. But—and this was a big but—Erin could tell Ulvama was unhappy. It wasn’t just noticing all the signs, but an actual feeling.
Like a string connecting her and Ulvama. Just like she could tell Matha was bored without having to see the Fraerling scratching her stomach. Erin had felt this before, but it was like she was awake.
What the heck had happened to her? Erin was walking through the city; not at random, though it seemed to Matha it was that way.
“Erin, why don’t we go back? Ulvama’s going to wake up, and this city’s depressing. Especially this part.”
“Yeah, I know. Shush, Matha.”
Erin realized they’d found themselves by a group of weary Tallguard. They appeared recently-bandaged. Their armor was messy, but they were whole. She waved at them.
“Hey, guys, can I offer you some seedwraps? What’s, uh, what’s going on?”
Most of them knew who she was. Even in disarray, a Human and Goblin attracted attention. A Tallguard with a huge scar across her nose grunted.
“Just resting up before getting back into it. Good thing you sent Eurise the Explorer. He dove into one nest and beheaded a queen. That and a trained Battle Hammy? We appreciate it.”
“Whoa, Eurise did that?”
Matha was impressed. The rest of the Tallguard—tired. Erin put the basket down and handed the food around. They weren’t starving, but clearly, they appreciated the food. A few of them eyed the simple nut-berry sandwich but took obliging bites.
“How rough is it?”
The female Tallguard replied directly to Erin as if she were a fellow Tallguard.
“Rougher than we want. Reconstruction’s going to take ages. We might be a month or more before a proper wall goes up, and even if we get the ants, there’s plenty of monsters that will be drawn to our magical signature. If we could get reinforcements or supplies, this would be easier!”
“Dretonamis could help. So will my village! They didn’t get the message—”
Matha began, and the Tallguard snorted at her. Not unkindly.
“Look, kid. We don’t need to tax villages. What we need is city support! An entire company of Crelerbane Armor would wrap up the rest of the damn ants and keep security up. Or supplies, magic, anything. We should have it already. But—Cillencreith’s gone quiet. They were always reclusive, but after this long with nothing? We thought they were just on a blackout, but they didn’t even respond to our emergency contact. So that’s more trouble. And none of our Tallguard outposts around there are reporting in.”
“Cillencreith’s the nearest city to here?”
Erin didn’t know any of the cities at all, and the Tallguard all nodded.
“Bigger than Lemoste by far. So that’s why we’re all down. If it’s two disasters or another wave of monsters from the Dyed Lands—”
The Fraerling woman took a huge bite out of her sandwich. Erin was nodding when she saw the Fraerling woman’s face change.
“What the hell is in—?”
She began unraveling her wrap, and Erin swivelled in her seat.
“Matha! What did you put in it?”
“Me? I, uh, didn’t I shuck the seed husks? Are the nuts or berries off?”
Matha raised her hands, clearly ready to run, but the Fraerling woman shook her head and took another bite. She chewed for too long, Erin felt, before swallowing.
“No…this is great. What the hell did you put in it?”
She took another bite energetically, and Erin realized the group had demolished their sandwiches. They turned to Matha, and she hesitated.
“What? That’s just day-old seeds and stuff.”
“You sure there’s not a sweetberry in here? It’s high-quality!”
“What? Can’t be.”
Someone had to toss a piece back to Matha, and she chewed it before her eyes widened.
“Hey, this is good! What the heck?”
Erin caught a piece herself, and it tasted normal to her. She said so. Everyone gaped at her as if she was crazy.
“It’s better than lunch! You got any more?”
They did not, but the Tallguard were sitting up a bit. Erin blinked at them, then turned. She glanced at her hands for a moment as Matha enthusiastically chewed on her bite. Then Erin…pulled back in that feeling that had been bubbling up with her. Matha stopped chewing, made a face.
“Wait, I got a bad bite. Now it’s just normal. Maybe I had some real fresh ingredients?”
Erin glanced at her. Then she flexed her hands again, eying the scars on her wrists. She saw one of the Tallguard gazing at her and stood.
“Well, we’ve got to get going. Hey, Matha—c’mere for a second. I’ve got an idea.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] walked Matha into an alleyway not because she was worried about eavesdroppers. Just because it was thematic. Then she swung Matha into a wall.
“Wh—hey! Did I use your special ingredients or something? Take it easy, Erin!”
Matha appeared alarmed as Erin gave her a look that had the [Raider] sweating a bit. It reminded her of when she’d first met Erin, and she wasn’t actually over that. The [Thought Healer] had actually said she was disguising her trauma and she definitely shouldn’t join this trip, but what did they know?
Erin pointed a finger at Matha.
“Matha, I’m going to be straight with you.”
“Okay?”
“I don’t like you. You don’t like me.”
“Uh…you got that half right.”
Erin blinked, but disregarded that as Matha held still. She glanced over her shoulder.
“Ulvama’s depressed because she thinks she’s scaring the kids.”
“Well, she’s got a pretty awesome smile—”
“Shut it. I’ve got a plan. A stupid one, and we might get in trouble for it, but…”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“I think it can work. I think it’s a good thing, if we do it right. That’s always how it goes. But I need your…help.”
She seemed like she regretted saying that, and Matha blinked.
“Hey, I’d love to help! Whaddya need? Me to steal something? Find someone? Ride something?”
“Nope. You can play the guitar, right? Or that thing’s close enough to one. Listen—”
Erin described her plan, and Matha hesitated.
“Wait. I can play a bit, but I don’t know the song.”
“I’ll hum it for you.”
“Uh—that isn’t how it works. Plus, I’m not that good!”
The [Innkeeper] was giving Matha an impatient expression.
“I’ll cover that, Matha. I can’t sing either, and we need like a drummer at least…hmm.”
Her eyes slid sideways, and she narrowed them.
“I have an idea there. You just agree to help, and we can do it, got it? Follow me. Keep an eye out for better guitars. And we’ll need a few spells for loudness and such. Easy.”
Matha caught up to her as she strode out of the alleyway, and the [Raider] had to bring some logic into the equation here.
“Erin, how is any of this easy? Listen, I used to lead the Cottontail Raiders. You can’t just execute something like what you’re talking about in a second! You need practice, lots of it, coordination, probably advertising and such—where are you gonna get a spellcaster or drummer?”
“Miss Eitine is an [Enchanter]. She can provide the magic. Even if she’s tired out, it’s a low-level spell—or she’ll know someone else who can do it.”
“Wh—okay, I didn’t think of that. But the crowds?”
“The crowds come whenever you do something good enough. As for a [Drummer]—”
They were six streets away, and Matha was jogging to keep up. Erin had made a seemingly random turn each time and gone up a flight of stairs. She walked through a back alley towards a dumpster behind a restaurant. Albeit a Fraerling one—so it was filled with worms who ate the compost and made of wood.
She flipped the lid open and spoke into it.
“Hey, Bowom, do you know how to play drums?”
Matha recoiled as a horror covered in worms rose from the dumpster. Bowom pulled one out of his ear and spoke drily.
“I am fascinated to know how you did that. And no…well, not professionally, but I’m all-in if this is something funny or covert.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled faintly. Then she turned to Matha.
“Okay, let’s rock.”
Matha was still squeaking protests as Erin dragged her into the city. It shouldn’t come together this fast! But Erin went back to the two [Carpenters], and one had a musician friend who directed her to a store who lent her the instruments she wanted because they were a fan of the Singer of Terandria they sometimes intercepted broadcasts of and no one was using them.
And they found a good spot, and Enchanter Eitine had just enough mana to work—but how? The [Innkeeper] just smiled at her when Matha objected. Bowom had to take Matha aside.
“Matha, Matha. I get what you’re doing. Wonderful straight man routine. I’d never have expected it from you. But you have to understand something.”
“What? How is she doing that, Bowom?”
The [Mad Doctor] met her eyes, cheerful, and jerked a thumb at Erin.
“She’s a Level 50 [Innkeeper], Matha. You don’t sneeze when Eurise blows the head off a monster a hundred times his size? You don’t raise your eyebrows when she does this. Here.”
He handed her a guitar. Then Erin was raising her brows at Matha.
“C’mon, we’ll do three practice-runs before we go loud. We don’t have to be perfect—I’m not gonna be.”
“Erin! I can’t!”
“What now?”
The [Innkeeper] growled, and Matha pointed at their audience, who included some of the kids like the [Carpenters]’, and at her guitar.
“I can’t play a song cold like that! I’m not good enough! I don’t even have a better class than [Strummer]!”
“I, on the other hand, am fully confident in my abilities to lay down a beat. It’s like stitching to the beat of a heart. One-and-two-and-one-and-two-and-suture-that-artery—”
Bowom cracked his knuckles as he slapped the drumsticks on the drums. Erin gazed at Matha, and the [Raider] knew that the [Innkeeper] didn’t like her. Which was fair, because Matha did have to make up for what she’d done. But for a moment, the young woman with her hair dyed magical colors and her intense stare seemed to look at Matha.
Her gaze softened, and she smiled as if she were seeing something familiar and funny. She slapped Matha on the back.
“You can do it. Ready? On…five. Is it five or three for music? Heck, I hated band class. And singing in front of everyone. Oh well.”
She took a breath, and Matha heard it tremble, but Erin was glancing down from their vantage point. The open city lay below them, and they could see from here a tiny little green tent. And Matha realized.
Oh, she’s doing this just for Ulvama. Erin winked at one of the [Carpenters] in the audience.
“One, two, three…”
Matha protested.
“Erin—”
She saw the [Innkeeper] point a finger at her without turning her head.
“[Boon of the Guest: Numbtongue]. Four, five—”
 
——
 
Ulvama was trying to doze off when she heard a strange, familiar sound from above. It sounded like—
Music? She tried to ignore it, covering her head with her pillow. She managed that for about ten minutes, but it kept getting louder. 
And then she realized something was coming from above. The [Shaman]’s head rose, and her own senses, magical, picked up on something else.
“People happy? But why?”
The city was not in a mood for that. But above her, blossoming like a strange flower, there was a rain of…amusement. Excitement. Relief, even, drifting down.
Magic she could almost pull out of the air. The Hobgoblin scrambled out of her tent, and she saw, six floors up, Fraerlings moving towards one spot. That was where the din was coming from.
The Hobgoblin had no idea what was going on. But she heard the faster lyrics, the aggressive wail of a guitar—and the drums, and her eyes narrowed.
“Erin.”
She didn’t know how or why, but she knew.
 
——
 
The Hobgoblin nearly threw something when she saw the [Innkeeper] standing in the amphitheater with Matha playing a sparking guitar and Bowom on the drums.
She actually had one of her shoes in hand and was calculating the trajectory when she halted.
Ulvama had never actually seen or heard Erin…sing. She’d known the [Innkeeper] could do it, but never like this. The young woman was striding across the stage, throwing up her hands, dancing to the music.
She looked—incredibly embarrassed if you knew her, but the audience didn’t. And the [Innkeeper] had come prepared. She had somehow convinced the [Chef] to hand out the antloaf and tomato soup next to the stage she was playing on.
Possibly because she’d gotten the [Chef] to taste the food she was serving with Erin’s new power working on it. But what sold the music was the combination.
Erin’s [Singer] skills and her [Perfect Recall]—Matha playing like a legend of rock and roll on her guitar, which wailed as if it were electric—and Bowom.
The [Mad Doctor] was actually the weakest member of the band, having no musical training like the other two, but he did indeed have a very strong sense of rhythm and coordination. He was playing well enough on the drums, keeping the rhythm in line with the song—that wasn’t what was the impressive part.
At some point, the [Mad Doctor] had realized that his drumset had a more modern innovation that the creator might have actually taken from images of the Singer of Terandria’s band.
A bass drum pedal. A simple lever you stepped on to strike the drum. Simple, for a Fraerling artisan to replicate. Simple for a [Doctor] to operate. Just one thing.
Bowom’s dominant foot was his right one. Which he had lost at one point and replaced with a cockroach’s spiked leg. A cockroach’s leg, which had plenty of issues like standing perfectly vertical; it gave Bowom a lopsided slouch.
But in return, it had plenty of advantages like the ability to run at the speed of a cockroach, one of the fastest land-based creatures in this or any other world. And—the ability to hit the drum pedal so fast that you could barely even see his foot.
Bowom was doubling the beat of the song on his drumset. That he was still on-rhythm was crazy. Ulvama stared at the laughing [Mad Doctor] and the [Innkeeper] singing for the Fraerlings, who sat and ate their food, watching the strange Human.
At one point, Erin noticed Ulvama was there. They just made eye-contact, and the [Innkeeper] smiled as she lifted the wooden microphone the two [Carpenters] had helped make for her. Ulvama sat, pulling threads of the crowd around her into her magic. Her magical paint glowing. Trying to keep a scowl on her face so she didn’t encourage Erin.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] was still playing when Eurise and the other Fraerlings came back from their ant-killing expeditions.
They were bit to hell and back and tired and covered in gore. They’d killed eight queens—mostly Eurise dropping on them and assassinating them. But the aftermath had seen Zemmy and Mera getting a taste of real fighting, and they weren’t happy.
The sight of the city they had come to see so damaged had dampened their spirits, and Mera was unusually unhappy. When they saw and heard Erin and her band playing, she was the one who groused first.
“What is that? Music? We were killing all the ants, and we could have used her help! Instead, she’s just playing silly songs?”
She looked at Zemmy—he was tapping his foot to the beat. When she turned to Roja, Eurise brought a fist down on her head.
“Shut it, Mera.”
“Ow! Eurise! But she’s not even doing anything!”
Roja snorted as some of the older Fraerlings eyed the young ones. She leaned over to speak to Mera.
“She’s putting on a fine show for people. That’s worth more than you think, Mera. And if you think that’s nothing—you try dancing and singing on stage for more than twenty minutes. How long has she been going?”
She turned to Commander Leafin, who was bobbing his head to the beat. He glanced up as he took a swig of water.
“Three hours? They keep doing new songs and practicing them, but she’s been nonstop. Her presence makes the food taste better. Thanks for bringing these two, Eurise. The Hobgoblin’s giving out charms. They’re pretty good for Tallfolk, aren’t they?”
“Yep.”
The [Explorer] caught a flask of water as it was tossed his way, and Mera opened her mouth. Then she went up to watch the performers. She and Zemmy were practically guzzling their tomato soup out of their bowls later. The Corumdon Beetle clacked his mandibles happily below as he danced on his six legs. The Battle Hamster just curled up for a nap.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Ulvama met a hoarse [Innkeeper] as she hopped off the stage. She was covered in sweat, and her half-grown hair on the left side of her head had beads of sweat dripping down. She looked…appropriate, though. Her multi-colored brown hair and the music fit, perhaps deliberately.
Ulvama couldn’t say; there were things about Erin’s world that kept surprising her, and vice-versa. But she put her hands on her hips as Erin strode over. Bowom and Matha were still accepting applause.
“You Numbtongue now?”
Erin laughed and coughed. Ulvama handed her a tonic she’d made for her throat and some water. She was recharged on magic, actually, despite all her crafting. Fraerlings were waving at her and Erin. Ulvama waved back and elbowed Erin.
“Well?”
“What? I just felt like bringing the mood up.”
Erin replied innocently. The [Shaman] glowered at her, folding her arms. The [Innkeeper] coughed again, but it wasn’t a sick cough, just a dry throat.
“Before I forget—[Boon of the Guest: Erin]. For Nerry.”
On stage, Matha stopped riffing and fumbled her chords.
“Aw—Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] wore a smug smile as she turned back to Ulvama. To her surprise, the Hobgoblin hugged her, then let go fast.
“Thank you.”
“Whaaaa? For what? Did you manage to make a few more charms?”
The [Innkeeper] tried to appear innocent until Ulvama put her in a headlock.
“Argh! I give up! C’mon, Ulvama, I’m really hungry, and I haven’t eaten since…wait, I forgot lunch. I wonder if I can use my new power to make food taste good for me?”
“Thank you.”
Ulvama turned, and Erin fell in beside her. She was blushing now.
“It was a lot of fun. I’ve never performed like that before. Like—in a band! It’s pretty embarrassing, singing like an actual performer on stage.”
The Hobgoblin gestured at the stage.
“You did…good. Your voice wasn’t as good as the Singer—”
“Thanks.”
Ulvama poked Erin, and the [Innkeeper] jumped.
“No, shush. Not as good as the Singer of Terandria. But you sang like it mattered. So it was the best. It worked.”
Erin smiled and ducked her head.
“That’s good. I’d almost want to do it again. But—nah.”
She peeked wistfully over her shoulders, and Ulvama was surprised.
“Why not? That worked well.”
Erin waved a hand.
“Eh, if you didn’t need—I’m not good at much, Ulvama. Just chess and…chess. And killing things. I never really had the courage to try new things. Or go to concerts—Grand Rapids had them all the time. But I never went. Or started a band. Heck, I’d never have dreamed of even trying.”
She glanced across the city, waved at Eurise and the others, before putting her hands in her pockets. Ulvama unknowingly copied Eurise. She bonked Erin gently on the head with a hand.
“Dummy. You do new things to practice them.”
“Ulvama, I can’t. I’m too shy.”
She actually had the gall to say that out loud. The Hobgoblin looked at Erin, and then Matha collapsed onto her back. The exhausted [Raider] lay there on her back, possibly overwhelmed with the novel concept of work.
Or maybe that was too harsh. Even Erin turned back to gesture at her.
“I guess she’s useful after all. But don’t tell her I said that.”
In the distance, Matha lurched back upright in a sudden shock. She leapt up and then raised her hands overhead.
“[Punk]! New class! Wooooo!”
The [Innkeeper] sighed and turned away. Ulvama began to grin and then saw a Fraerling girl staring at her, open-mouthed. The Hobgoblin hesitated, and Erin whirled.
“She’s got awesome teeth, right?”
“Yeah!”
The girl nodded, and the embarrassed Goblin laughed, and then she and Erin were walking through the city as Matha and Bowom ran to catch up. Ignorant of the goings on in the greater, bigger world.
But they weren’t aching to go back. They were quite happy enough.

Interlude - Halfseekers (Pt. 1) (2025-09-08)

And then they had sex.
The sex was spontaneous. Organic—dead bodies were still technically organic, right?—and fun. The Selphid jumped on the giant Dullahan, wearing a fresh Drake’s body, and Maughin made a surprised, gratified sound.
“Again, Jelaqua? Are you sure we won’t wear out your body—?”
“Hey, all the nerve endings are intact, and we’re married. Get that codpiece off, you silly [Smith]!”
The details of the sexening were not necessary. It was common enough in Maughin’s 7th Floor home, next to the smithies, that if they didn’t have soundproofing spells, the neighbors would have definitely called the Watch. But as it was, the rather large home with rooms and hallways sized for someone of Maughin’s considerable height—nine feet—was rich.
Soundproofing spells on the walls and even a miniature forge attached to the Dullahan-style building with its crablike design and thick, thick walls were signs of wealth. Just like the glass windows and marble flooring in the entryway.
Of course, other Pallassians thought such houses, sometimes referred to as ‘Dull Houses’, were eyesores. They didn’t show off like traditional Drake architecture, and Dullahans favored an austere style of wealth. Like…stone flooring instead of putting a carpet down everywhere. Cold as hell unless you lived in your padded armor. Or were a Selphid.
Jelaqua didn’t mind it at all. She’d been actually very nervous about having to take care of a garden. She’d heard it was traditional for wives to do gardening when they got married, but Jelaqua had the opposite of a green thumb. And stone floors meant you could sweep it a lot easier than having to beat a bunch of carpets—and she wasn’t quite down with hiring a [Cleaner] or help.
It was little things like that which helped the married life.
And the sex.
 
——
 
Afterwards, they lay together in post-coital bliss, and Jelaqua grew insecure in about sixteen seconds after happily laying with Maughin. They weren’t cuddling as Dullahans didn’t really do that. The armored folk of Baleros were private, so Maughin’s armor came back on the moment they were done—his interior ‘self’ was a lot more sensitive and vulnerable than even regular Human flesh, so, again, like a crab, he instinctively covered up.
Dullahans were an odd species even by the standards of the myriad groups in this world. They were more divergent from the typical humanoids—a half-Elf, for all their longevity, had most of the same biological functions as a Human, but Dullahans were more different, with detachable limbs and armored bodies. Weirder. Harder to understand.
As a Selphid, Jelaqua related. The fact there was a Dullahan community in Pallass made them outsiders, even if there were generations of native-born Pallassians here. But Maughin had come from Invictel; he was a Dullahan who knew home and pined for it.
One of the reasons they’d liked each other when they met. Strangers far from their homeland. But you found a new home wherever you went—and love? Oh, she’d found it at last.
Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers, Selphid, [Steelforged Whirlwind], the Selphid known as ‘Jelaqua the Tempest’ during her time as a mercenary in Baleros, lay in bed. Happy. Again, for sixteen seconds. Then she peeked at Maughin.
His head was on the bedside stand, having come off his body. It was reading a book; he’d been too distracted to read a minute ago, but now he had reading spectacles on and was perusing ‘Ponderings on Metallurgy, A Treatise on Forgotten Metals and Ores of the Waning World’ by some writer. He had a smile on his face, but Jelaqua coughed anyways.
“Um—that was fun!”
“What? Oh, yes, very.”
Dullahans weren’t that expressive, so that sounded dismissive, but it was actually encouraging. They were shy too, in a way. Jelaqua paused, then went on.
“I don’t think my body’s bad. It doesn’t smell, right? And it’s holding up in all the right places? Nothing—mushy?”
This time, Maughin had to pause a moment. The nature of Selphids was that they inhabited dead bodies. You had to be okay with kissing an animated corpse, but even he had limits. Jelaqua worked hard on her ‘social’ bodies to make sure they were preserved and, well, not corpse-like. He coughed as his body stretched out a hand to cover his mouth.
“Yes. Very fresh, Jelaqua.”
“That’s great, um, Maughy. Dear.”
They both paused. The nickname wasn’t quite landing. After a moment, Maughin’s body turned, and he regarded Jelaqua with his head.
“I enjoyed it, Jelaqua. I always do. You don’t have to do it because you think I want to.”
He blushed faintly. He was so open and direct compared to some Dullahans—but they were in private. Jelaqua relaxed a bit.
“Who, me? Of course I enjoy it! I just worry…aw, nevermind.”
Relieved, she rolled over in bed. Maughin went back to reading, and Jelaqua sighed. Married life. Her, a Gold-rank adventurer, married. She couldn’t believe it. She was still so happy.
And terribly sad. Moore and Ulinde. Jelaqua closed her eyes, but she didn’t cry or Maughin would think it was his fault.
The Halfseekers are gone. And it’s my fault. We saved lives. It’s over. I’m married now. Be happy, be happy—
It was easier when they were like this. She could believe the world was indeed that sparkling rainbow of happy-ever-after she’d wanted as a small Selphid. But then the sun rose. And the problem with married life—at least, with Maughin—wasn’t him.
Not him, the dedicated [Smith] who genuinely loved his strange new wife despite all her quirks.
No, the problem was being…well. Married to a Dullahan.
He had family.
 
——
 
Her name was Vhiren Dulamet, a common last-name. She was a [Baker], Level 28; nothing special, but she had enough to operate a bakery with her husband, Mordol, and they had a son working as an assistant [Baker] on the 7th floor of Pallass.
Not prosperous; they were middle-income at best, but they’d moved up in the world, literally, since their son was Pallass’ best [Smith]. Vhiren was 5’6’’ and had decorated metal armor that was quite elegant and impressive given her actual status. Again, made by her son. She had grey hair cut in a short bob, and her armor was polished white, which actually worked well because flour didn’t get that noticeable on it.
Jelaqua feared her more than an Adult Creler. Every time Maughin’s mother came over, she squirmed around inside her body, and Vhiren came by so often.
“I brought bread, Maughin. Fresh-baked. I hope you are eating well?”
“Very well, Mother. Jelaqua was just making breakfast. Will you eat with us?”
Vhiren hesitated.
“Oh. No. I have eaten. I will just sit and talk. Is there tea?”
Such polite words. They hid levels of meaning so deep you had to be there to understand the nuances. For instance, Vhiren was sitting with her head on a table as Maughin’s body fed him breakfast. Her body was moving about Jelaqua and Maughin’s living room-kitchen, opening cupboards, ostensibly to put the fresh bread somewhere.
Investigating. Critiquing. And the dialogue—well. Bringing fresh bread to her son was a natural thing for a [Baker] to do! It didn’t imply that Jelaqua was failing to keep the household up.
The same with not being hungry—it wasn’t a deliberate slight against Jelaqua or a refusal to eat what the Selphid was making. Unless you read it that way. The same with the comment about tea that Jelaqua instantly began to make.
You should have made it already. I can’t believe this is my son’s wife.
Vhiren didn’t say it, and her face was too polite to suggest it, but she didn’t like Jelaqua. Maughin, by contrast, was very respectful to his mother and made small talk about their business, the things in Pallass—Jelaqua joined him for breakfast, which was roasted corn-on-the-cob with a hearty side of braised beef dipped in a sauce she’d bought from a local [Saucemaker], very good.
Maughin’s mother eyed the food.
“Such interesting cuisine, Miss Ivirith. Do you not know any traditional meals? I could lend you a cookbook.”
Jelaqua hesitated, wiping her hands on a towelette. She tried to smile at the old Bagrhaven.
“I, uh—I know a few recipes, but I’d love to borrow a cookbook, Miss Vhiren!”
She was spared from having to say more by Maughin glancing up from a newspaper he was reading. He spoke with the hint of a frown.
“I like her cooking, Mother. I asked for the corn. It comes from a specialist [Farmer] up north. I had it once in Liscor and liked it. I am working long hours at the smithy today as well.”
“Oh, of course. Which farmer is it?”
Instantly, Vhiren abandoned her line of questioning. The slight at calling Jelaqua ‘Miss Ivirith’, the implication she couldn’t cook—they were all digs. And Maughin didn’t miss them. His frown, his slight censure of his mother…Jelaqua held her breath, feeling elated and unhappy.
Vhiren left soon thereafter as work was beginning. Maughin glanced out the window; it wasn’t even dawn yet. Both Vhiren and her son worked the early hours, and Jelaqua was used to it as a Gold-rank adventurer. When Vhiren was leaving with an empty basket, Jelaqua turned to Maughin.
“You didn’t have to—”
“She was being rude. I can tell, Jelaqua. I know everyone says females of any species talk in code, but it is direct enough if you listen.”
He put down his newspaper and began to clean his plate, and Jelaqua wrung the towel between her claws—she still had the Drake body.
“But you’re fighting with your family! It’s such a—a—”
A problem in Dullahan culture! Maughin censuring his mother in any way was already extraordinary. That she came over and they were civil was because they did care for each other, but the Dullahan’s face developed a stubborn cast.
“The rift began at our wedding. She will not relent; neither will I. I am not wrong. She will see it, or we will continue forging our opinions against each other.”
A Dullahan family drama. Jelaqua hung her head, and Maughin patted her arm.
“It is not your fault they are prejudiced. Come now, Jelaqua. How can I help you smile?”
Because he meant it, she smiled. It was even genuine as she kissed his head on the cheek, and he put it on his shoulders and prepared to head out for work in his forge on the 9th Floor.
“I’ll see you tonight! Good luck with the big wagon order! Is it all New Lands?”
He grumbled softly in his chest.
“New Lands or replacing what was bought up. Ridiculous. One moment they have no need for good wagon parts because ‘Wistram is superior’, the next everyone demands it because magic is missing from the New Lands.”
She grinned up at him.
“Nice to be appreciated?”
“I hate wagon axles. I’d rather work on the Adamantium…I will be back late. Please, do not wait up for me. Farrier Bealt is teaming up with my forge to handle a hundred and twenty wheels by midnight.”
Dead gods, that was a lot. Even for a [Smith] like Maughin who had lesser [Smiths] and [Apprentices] under his command—but he could do the work. Jelaqua nodded.
“I’ll be heading to that fancy get-together at lunch. You couldn’t…?”
He shook his head.
“I’m sorry, but I cannot take an hour.”
She knew that and sighed. Then she smiled and pushed at the small of his back. She was so strong she could shove even him towards the door.
“Well then, get to it! Wait, your lunch!”
She grabbed a wooden box and hurriedly activated the cooling rune, then shoved it into Maughin’s hands. He smiled at her as he began to stride down the still-dark streets of smooth stone, towards the elevators and the 9th Floor. Jelaqua waved at him, then stood in the doorway a moment.
Around her, the dark homes of her neighbors were beginning to light up, and she inhaled the scents of Pallass through her dead body’s nasal passages. Whenever she had a fresh body, she savored every sense. She was lucky; she had plenty of dead bodies, and Pallass was big enough that she could get more. She could smell the faint whiffs of alchemy from above, baked bread from behind her, and the tang of metal which hung around Maughin’s house. She couldn’t tell if it was chilly or not, but the spring air felt fresh enough.
“Okay, Jelaqua, another day of marriage.”
She snapped her claws, then glanced over her shoulder. First order of business?
Replacing the towel she’d accidentally ripped by twisting it. The problem with being a Gold-ranker was that she was too strong. The good thing was she and Maughin were wealthy enough.
The bad thing about being married was…Jelaqua was still unsure what to do with herself. She hadn’t realized it, but being a [Loving Wife] was, uh, sort of hard.
She was a Level 38 [Steelforged Whirlwind] after the Winter Solstice. Lower-level than you’d think for an adventurer and mercenary’s life of over 33 years, perhaps. Too many other classes.
A Level 11 [Loving Wife], newly consolidated from her [Lover] class. Plenty of great Skills like [Body: Slow Decay] or [Body: Fresh Flesh] so she could be more living with Maughin and less horrifically gross. That was her real class, anyways. [Wife]. Her new life…the rest of it was behind her.
Level 23 [Mercenary]? A different life.
Level 26 [Bounty Hunter]? Another period, another continent. Consolidated into her main class with [Mercenary].
Level 6 [Sullen Fisher]? Never again, thank you. Jelaqua stretched and remembered a miserable Selphid girl pulling fish up on the shores of a village and then stared around the City of Inventions.
“Life’s good. It really is.”
She was fifty-eight years old, and she’d lived a lifetime of other classes and jobs. That wasn’t as long as it would be for a Human since Selphids could live longer if they didn’t get the Wasting. But it was a full life, unlike that of half-Elves. For an adventurer? Ancient.
Jelaqua would get used to the wife thing. The first thing she did, in fact, was try to make peace with Miss Vhiren.
It, uh, went as well as it always did.
 
——
 
Jelaqua waited for twenty-six minutes at Steelforged Loaves, the bakery that had an image of Maughin drawn proudly on the signboard. Only after she waited patiently that long did Vhiren send out someone from behind the counter to get rid of her.
“Miss Ivirith, can I help you?”
It was her son, Milden, a thirty-one year old Dullahan still living with his parents. Mordol, who was running the counter, didn’t look at Jelaqua, though some of the mostly-Dullahan customers were giving her the side-eye. They knew about her, of course, and the fight Maughin was having with his family. But no one said anything in public. Dullahans were terrible gossips.
“Hey, Milden, I’ve got some of that fresh corn from Farmer Lupp. I reckoned I’d share some.”
Jelaqua had a small bag of colorful corn and regular stuff from the north. It was very pricey, and she figured that if they tried it, the Dullahans would love it. Milden glanced towards his father as he took the bag.
“Thank you, Jelaqua.”
She smiled at Milden; of all of Maughin’s family, she liked him most, and vice versa was true.
“No problem. Hey, did you catch the King of Destruction tearing Nerrhavia’s Fallen a new one?”
He perked up a bit.
“I did. They cut the scrying spell too early. He rampaged straight through the pikes, just like you said.”
Jelaqua snorted.
“Ah, that’s what I keep saying. At his level, it doesn’t matter if pikes beat horses. You can’t out-number a guy like him. Back when I was in Baleros…”
She was going to spin him a yarn about her time as a commander when Mordol spoke up.
“Milden, the customers.”
The younger Dullahan stopped and gave Jelaqua a guilty glance. He bowed his head to his father, and Jelaqua waved a hand.
“Sorry, you have to go.”
She smiled at him as he got back to work. Then she stood around for a moment…until someone else approached her.
“Miss Ivirith. Good morning to you.”
The last member of Maughin’s immediate family was Linteca. She made Jelaqua’s stomach hurt less than Maughin’s parents, but it was still awkward around her.
She was twenty-eight. Youngest of the family—Maughin was nearing forty—and the least-respectable member. Before Jelaqua, she would have been considered the problem-child, but it seemed Miss Vhiren was getting on great with her daughter. Because her daughter’s isle of discontent had been eclipsed by Jelaqua’s moon of problems.
Linteca was a Street Runner, you see. Not a City Runner, which was respectable. She was twenty-eight, pulling minimum wage in a very unrespectable job in Pallass, even if she had enough work. The city needed Street Runners constantly with its millions of people. Even so, for a family like Vhiren’s…no.
Mordol had succeeded the family business and so was a good kid. Maughin was the great [Smith], a beloved class by Dullahans, and the best in Pallass, so unassailably fantastic despite his oddities with his wife; his parents would never disown him. But Linteca?
Jelaqua happened to know that Maughin gave her some gold each month so she could have more money to spend and so she didn’t have to live with her parents. Despite that, she didn’t like Jelaqua…Maughin thought it was a way for her to get on her parents’ good side.
“Hey, Linteca, how’s the running going?”
Jelaqua smiled, and Linteca bowed her head stiffly.
“It is busy as ever. I brought the towel to your door.”
“Oh. Uh—thanks. You know how it is. Maughin and I can’t mind our own strength.”
Damn, they’d given Linteca that job? Jelaqua flushed. Linteca gave her another bland expression.
“Yes, I am sure my brother cannot mind his strength.”
And Jelaqua was almost done with the passive-aggressiveness for the day. She wished she had a monster to punch. She smiled, tight-lipped. Her Drake’s tail curled into a knot, which made one of the Drake clients freeze in horror; Drake tails should not move like that unless a Selphid was controlling them.
“—Well, I’ve got to get going. I’ve got some fancy meetup to get to.”
“Oh, with who? Fellow adventurers? I thought they were all in the New Lands. Unless these are more retired veterans such as yourself?”
Linteca raised her eyebrows. Since Jelaqua was annoyed, she went petty and smiled airily.
“Adventurers? Oh no, it’s just some Walled Nobles. You know, a brunch between that sort? Maughin’s too busy to attend, but I figured they’d have good sandwiches.”
Mordol glanced up from the counter, and Linteca hesitated. Jelaqua just knew Vhiren would hear that. She hoped the old harridan exploded out of jealousy.
“I’ll see you later. Good luck running, kid!”
Jelaqua headed out of the store and then slumped as she left. Well, so much for mending bridges. Here would be a moment when she found a friend to vent about Maughin’s family.
If she had one.
But her team was gone, and in their absence…Jelaqua hadn’t really made a friend in Pallass. Not yet.
 
——
 
The problem was her social status and who she hung out with. As a former adventurer and current [Wife], Jelaqua didn’t have a circle to get together with. Ideally, it would have been Maughin’s friends or family, but the Dullahan community was pretty standoffish.
But hey, you were a new wife, you could hang with the others, right? Again, Jelaqua was handicapped because she was, unwillingly, not just some housewife, but a socialite.
Maughin was Pallass’ best [Smith] with Pelt gone. Which meant he ranked above your average household. He wasn’t old money, and so he lived on the 7th Floor, but he was important, so that was how Jelaqua found herself sitting in a parlor next to Drakes, Gnolls, and a single Garuda in the middle of high society.
She hated it here. All the other wives and husbands were heads of Guilds or Walled Nobility, and they had a bit of an elitist attitude towards a common [Smith]. Much less his adventurer wife.
And their conversation sucked.
“So, as I was saying, this New Lands venture is completely untenable. I’m pulling out my investments.”
“Really? Are you sure, Minsvi?”
A Drake [Wife] was speaking airily to the table they were all sitting around, and a few of the other wives gasped. They were mostly [Wives] with that exact class; not many people with a job had time to hang out in the mid-morning.
[Trophy Wives]. If not that exact class…they looked good. A Gnoll was turning to Minsvi as Jelaqua sipped on some coffee and munched on a decent sandwich. You’d think they’d have better, rich as they were, but it was just a crustless piece of bread with fancy ingredients and zero compositional ability. Minsvi nodded importantly.
“My husband—he works at the Merchant’s Guild, Miss Ivirith, just so you know, and he knows everything—he said that multiple [Merchant] expeditions have lost everything. Just everything! This Consortium of Enterprise he was following? The last [Message] they sent was that they’d lost all their magic, they were running low on food, and their hired help were threatening to rebel!”
“Dead gods! What a disaster!”
Everyone was discussing the New Lands, and the group tittered with dismay. Minsvi nodded as Jelaqua eyed the sandwich plate.
“I told him to pull all our money out, and you should too! There’s no profit in the New Lands.”
“But we have a caravan already on the way, and we’ve invested a 30% stake in it!”
Stressed, one Gnoll stood up and turned. She was Senator Eriff’s wife, around his age. Minsvi nodded to her.
“Well, get it back! It’s better than watching all the gold vanish. Even adventurers are fleeing the New Lands. After all, without magic or food, it’s hopeless, isn’t it, Miss Ivirith? You wouldn’t take your team into that nightmarish land, would you?”
In a heartbeat to get out of here. Jelaqua tried to smile around and noticed most of the [Wives] giving her fake smiles. They didn’t like a Selphid among them any more than the Dullahans. The problem was…few people were used to Selphids in Izril.
The dead body thing, her species, unnerved them. Jelaqua doubted she’d do this brunch again. She wished Maughin were here; at least then he’d be able to talk to the other husbands and she’d be able to stand with him.
Another problem Jelaqua had was her tongue. She just couldn’t hold it. Oh, she could be nice if she had to, but when she was asked a question, she liked to be truthful rather than to play into whatever people were saying. So she shrugged.
“Eh, my team? If it was the Halfseekers at full strength, we’d go into the New Lands. Mind you, we’d hate losing magic, but if we were forewarned, we’d do it.”
“What? Without magic or food?”
The group was askance, and Jelaqua took a sip from her teacup. She slurped too loudly; half of them winced, and the Garuda hid a smile behind her beak. Jelaqua blushed orange, but then she went on.
“Pardon me. Whatdya mean no food? You just mean we can’t grow it. There’s plenty to eat if you can hunt. My [Rogue], Seborn, he has a knack for sneaking up on things. So long as we’re around something edible, that’s food. And our [Green Mage], Moore…he could tell you what we could eat.”
Moore. She swallowed hard, but forced a smile and went on.
“No magic’s hard, but most [Mages] can generate a bit. Moore could…could have gotten some from the ground, I reckon.”
“But Miss Ivirith, what’s the point? If there’s no magic, all these ruins are worthless! Nothing to explore. No magical animals or plants!”
Miss Minsvi was determined to be a wet blanket. She waved a claw, and Jelaqua fixed her with a kindly eye.
“Aw, well, it seems bad right now, Miss Minsvi. I feel bad for all the folk who went in not knowing how tough it was. But there’s always something valuable in a place like that. The land itself.”
“Land where you can’t use magic? What use is that?”
Jelaqua counted on her fingers.
“[Farmers]. [Ranchers]. If there’s good ore, a [Miner] would be there. Free land is great, ‘specially if it’s not hard to clear and use. More than that? Sure, let’s say this magic-draining thing affects all the New Lands. Anything above Artifact ranking is still going to have magic in the ruins. Plus, there are highly magical beasts I’ve heard. You hear about The Adventurer’s Haven coming under attack?”
They had not. Jelaqua had to explain that.
“That’s a lot of value. Not easy value, but any adventuring team might hunt those monsters because that’s gear you could never buy. Most importantly, though, I think there’s one last trick to the New Lands.”
She was staring at the sandwiches, all of different types on the tray. Was she going to gamble on another one? She could use a bite, but that last sandwich had been pretty mediocre. Everyone leaned in.
“Which is…?”
Jelaqua blinked.
“Oh, well. If the magic’s all going somewhere, where’s it going? It’s always somewhere, right?”
That was just logic. She’d journeyed with enough [Mages] to know that. Jelaqua expounded on her statement as she reached for a sandwich.
“Seborn says that there’s places in the ocean that drain magic—but Drowned Folk reckon it’s a beast or something down there. If I were in the New Lands, I’d take my team hunting for the source of the mana drain. If it’s an object, spell, or monster, that’s where the money’s at. So I don’t know about pulling your money out of the New Lands. But if you’re saying there’s nothing there, I disagree. Politely.”
She smiled at Minsvi, who glowered as the other wives murmured. Jelaqua was about to take a gamble on a tasty-looking flatbread when someone reached out.
“Why don’t you take one of these, Adventurer Jelaqua?”
The Garuda woman passed her a seemingly fruit-filled sandwich that appeared highly suspect. Jelaqua hesitated, but decided to take the gamble. To her surprise, the ‘fruits’ were actually pineapple, which went decently well with some roasted chicken! She munched on it, pleasantly shocked it was made well.
“This is good!”
The other [Wives] were debating the New Lands venture more quietly, ostracizing her, but the Garuda woman leaned over.
“I made it myself, actually. You’re exceptionally knowledgeable, Miss Ivirith! Or is it Miss Dulamet? Forgive me, we’ve met at the last get-together, but Werdin and Maughin were talking the entire time. I’m Melika.”
“Oh, pleased to meet you. Wall Lord Werdin’s wife?”
The [Socialite] was vaguely familiar, and she had some colorful feathers and a hefty golden necklace with a huge emerald on it. Definitely the wife of a rich man—Wall Lord Werdin Blackwing was from one of Pallass’ biggest noble families.
For all that, Melika seemed genuinely friendly and fascinated.
“We have some business in the New Lands as well, so hearing it’s not a complete waste of time is a relief.”
“Ah, well, I wouldn’t put much stock in my words. Just seems to me that if they’ve bought all the goods and hired everyone, there’s not much gold to get back. Everything’s a huge gamble like this, so I’d bet on a big return rather than wasting most of my gold, you know? Not that this is advice!”
Jelaqua hurriedly clarified, and Melika nodded.
“Of course not, but I might repeat a bit of what you said to Werdin. He’s been so stressed…”
That was when Minsvi spoke loudly.
“Unless Pallass’ army can do something, I think he should be! Melika, your husband knows General Edellein, doesn’t he? Is there any news from the New Lands? I’d trust his opinion over a former adventurer’s any day.”
Melika frowned at her as Jelaqua sighed internally. But then the Garuda snapped back.
“Only some kind of super ice-bird, which, just as Miss Jelaqua said, is a sign the New Lands has magic! Minsvi, you’re being terribly rude. I think Miss Ivirith would be more happy to speak to anyone with earholes to listen—over by the window?”
Then she stood and beckoned to Jelaqua. The adventurer blinked, then rose, and Minsvi hesitated. But a third of her group glanced between her and Melika and clearly thought the Garuda was better to follow—when Jelaqua got up, another third decided to follow.
The two groups split, and then Jelaqua was staring down at a view of Pallass from the grand glass windows, and Melika was smiling at her.
“You were talking about The Adventurer’s Haven, Miss Ivirith? We went to it when they visited—such a grand inn! I had no idea it was in the New Lands!”
Jelaqua blinked at her, and the suddenly-attentive ladies, and then wondered if Melika wanted something from her. At the very least, she wasn’t being sneered at, so Jelaqua took another bite of her sandwich.
“Sure? The inn? It’s probably one of the most defensive structures in Izril. More than a fortress! Now, if it was under attack that bad…”
 
——
 
After an hour, Jelaqua decided she liked Melika. The Garuda might be a [Socialite], but she was sharp! Less of a vacuous airhead than her class and demeanor suggested.
Of course, she was still a rich lady of Pallass, but who wasn’t in this room? That she listened to Jelaqua was nice, and she had some weight socially speaking. Whether that came from her husband…
He showed up after an hour with some of the married men, who chatted awkwardly in groups of their own. There was a very funny gender divide with speaking with the ladies, but it seemed that Jelaqua was an exception as an adventurer.
“Adventurer Ivirith, I hear you had some opinions on the New Lands? Did you hear about the ice bird that stopped the entire Walled City’s forces for a day? I heard it took two Named-ranks to break the wall!”
Jelaqua was chatting with them and getting some intelligence on the New Lands, as if she would ever go there. She saw Werdin march over as the head of the Engineer’s Guild came in, took one look at the scene, and walked out.
Now there’s a fellow who doesn’t want to be here. Jelaqua had nothing better to do, so she stayed put. She saw Werdin grab Melika’s arm.
“Melika, did Salkis come back? I told you and the staff to grab her! She’s causing more trouble—”
“Salkis? What did she do this time? I don’t know—”
Ooh, marital troubles. Werdin growled at Melika for a few seconds before joining the conversation as if all was well. When he spoke, Melika went mostly quiet.
All of it put Jelaqua’s tendrils in a knot. Drake high society. Eugh. It was so…gendered.
She’d heard Terandria did the same. Most Selphid’s sense of ‘male’ or ‘female’ changed with whichever body they wore. Jelaqua was an exception in that she felt female, regardless, but she could definitely wear a male body if she needed to. You couldn’t be picky about that, but it led to complications that way, too.
Maughin definitely got weirded out whenever she wore a male body and wanted to get cuddly, but he didn’t do the ‘you must be silent when I speak’ thing.
Still, Werdin was impressed enough by her theories on the New Lands. He snapped his claws as he drank some wine.
“That’s an adventurer’s take. That’s what I want to hear! A bit of guts in the New Lands, not just pull the money and run!”
He nodded authoritatively, and suddenly everyone liked Jelaqua. The Selphid rolled her eyes as Minsvi piped up.
“Actually, I happen to know a few Gold-rank teams who are in the New Lands, Lord Werdin, if you were so interested…”
Jelaqua backed out of the conversation on the pretense of getting a drink. She sort of hoped Melika would follow, but the Garuda was glued to her husband’s side. Jelaqua ambled over to the drinks and blinked.
“Wine at this hour?”
She was no lush. Jelaqua grabbed some purified water instead and sighed.
“Ugh, it’s not being served in a proper bottle or glass. Tastes just like water.”
These rich people. She was topping her glass up when someone else poured themselves a drink of water, and Jelaqua saw a familiar Drake toss down the entire cup and fill another one.
“Wh—General Shirka? What are you doing here?”
None other than 2nd Army’s [General] was here! Shirka looked about as happy as Jelaqua had felt, but she turned and nodded at Jelaqua.
“Adventurer…Ivirith? Good to meet you. I’m attending this brunch by way of invitation. 2nd Army is reforming at Pallass.”
She nodded around, and Jelaqua frowned at her.
“Yeah, sorry about that disaster. I haven’t seen a force get beaten that badly since I was in Baleros.”
The Selphid feared she’d put her foot in the cowpat, but Shirka only stiffened a second before offering her a brittle smile.
“At least someone’s not sugarcoating it.”
“Sorry, sorry. You know us Balerosians. No tact.”
“Well, you would know war. As a former [Mercenary] yourself, I mean.”
“Hey, you know about that?”
“You do have a file, Adventurer Ivirith.”
Shirka favored Jelaqua with a faint smile, and the Selphid rolled her eyes.
“You Drakes and your files. So how’s it going? Burying the dead, attending the funerals—agh, it was never easy. Sorry.”
But the [General] didn’t seem to mind. She spoke as a few people drifted towards Jelaqua, then away when they saw Shirka. She was probably doing the political thing, which any commander had to, but she was definitely out-of-favor in Pallass. And she talked to Jelaqua with that familiarity both had with war and armies.
“It’s been a disaster, but it’s not my first war, if that makes sense. Frankly…the [Slayer] corps are ‘easier’ than most, because their classes meant most were single. Dedicated to the fight.”
“Ah. Their families knew what was coming?”
Shirka nodded, and Jelaqua shook her head.
“We had a few of those in Baleros. Not that I served with them—but you get loyalists to every species. Dullahans treat theirs the best, which is weird to say, I know. The Eternal Nobles—sorry, I forget their exact name. Selphids who follow the Minds get a bit weird, though.”
General Shirka grimaced.
“The [Slayers] were certainly a problem for any [General] who commanded 2nd Army. But they were an asset. The fact that they all perished under my watch…”
“Hey, a Goblin Lord and Goblin King appear and everyone dies. Mind you, I’d have pulled my army back rather than face that monster.”
“So would I.”
Oh. That was not a happy expression Shirka wore. Jelaqua hesitated.
“So what’s next for 2nd Army? Rebuilding?”
Shirka drained her cup and filled it, again with the water.
“Yes, retraining and recruitment. It’s a long process, though I intend to have 2nd Army ready for action within a month, if not ready for a war.”
She wasn’t beaten down; that was good. Jelaqua whistled.
“You can recruit that fast?”
“From the other armies and our allied cities? Yes. Bringing them up to standard is far harder, but we drill rigorously. The real problem is our…edge. Our Archmage’s card.”
“Your what now?”
Shirka waved a claw and tried to explain. She grimaced into her cup.
“Excuse me, I’m using internal slang. It’s standing policy for every army of Pallass to have a defining trait or characteristic that they can use against a foe. A ‘secret weapon’, but not that prosaic. 1st Army had exceptionally heavy armor and General Duln and Strategist Chaldion. 2nd Army had our [Slayers], and so on. General Edellein had a rather outstanding [Lieutenant] and a number of specialist units. Without one, we won’t be approved for combat until we find another edge.”
Jelaqua raised her brows.
“Sounds like a real problem to come up with in a few months’ time. Are they just giving out special forces these days?”
Shirka offered her a mirthless smile.
“Exactly. There aren’t many good options, and it is standing practice. This isn’t confidential, incidentally. I have only a few options. One of which would be to demand a hundred Eyes of Pallass with combat capabilities for 2nd Army.”
A hundred [Spies] serving in a combat role? Jelaqua winced.
“Yeah, they’d love taking orders from you. And wouldn’t ever disobey orders. I’d rather have a hundred kids.”
Shirka’s face said she would too.
“It’s one of the few ways I can claim to have a specialty—well, I’m looking into custom armor or something else that can qualify. The problem is that’s not a very genuine specialist unit, even if I arm our veterans up. And the only other option is—worse.”
She stared into her cup and shook her head. Jelaqua was impressed.
“Worse than a hundred [Spies]?”
“Oh, I didn’t believe it either. I’d rather have our [Slayers] again. Sometimes, I see Saliss’ point about Pallass. The things we don’t know and the sins of the city—like wielding a poisoned blade.”
Now, what did that mean? But Shirka didn’t elaborate; in fact, her gaze drifted away, and Jelaqua didn’t get any more from her. Then Werdin was bringing her back to discuss the war in Reim, and well—that was brunch.
It was entertaining enough, and Melika waved at Jelaqua afterwards.
“Miss Jelaqua, I’d love to do this again!”
“Hey, so would I. If you ever have a brunch like this, just invite me.”
Jelaqua smiled, and Melika promised to, but from the glower a few of the other wives gave her, Jelaqua doubted she’d be top of an invite list. Then she was free for the day. Jelaqua Ivirith walked around Pallass.
With nothing to do in the world.
 
 
——
 
Normally, Jelaqua enjoyed her downtime, but that was because it was between adventures. You just ate, relaxed, and knew the good times would end, and you’d be slogging through the mud towards a monster den. But what happened when the good times were forever?
She didn’t train. Oh, she’d swing her flail around now and then, but Jelaqua was no [Warrior] who needed to train muscles; she was a Selphid, and her body determined her strength. Nor was she quite down on wifely hobbies yet.
Cleaning their home didn’t take too long. Jelaqua didn’t garden, and Maughin wouldn’t be back until late, so there was no dinner to make; she’d already put some food in their Preservation Pantry for him to eat.
So she did what anyone with wealth in Pallass did.
Tried to find something to buy.
 
——
 
The Grand Bazaar on the 1st Floor wasn’t super-interesting to Jelaqua; she’d been there a lot, and most of the curios or knickknacks weren’t something she needed. So instead, she attended a more upscale place to spend money: the Mage’s Guild.
The one in Pallass always had the latest magical enchantments, spells, or services on offer. Jelaqua stood with a crowd of murmuring people as the [Mage] created magical, light-based illusions of their latest services.
They’re getting better at that. It used to be they just gave us fancy pictures. Jelaqua eyed some of the things with less interest—she’d seen the magical carriages that were all the rage.
Maughin doesn’t have time to travel, and we have the door. Plus, buying one of those is way outside even our budget.
Same with the Adventure Rooms—she’d seen real adventure, thank you. But there was more!
“We’re now offering advanced magical artifacts, citizens of Pallass! Have you ever wanted to talk to a friend in another city without going through the Mage’s Guild? Now, our Infinite Message Scrolls are 50% off! And we have a new, advanced Book of Messages with the ability to ‘connect’ to anyone anywhere in the world!”
The [Mage] had a book that didn’t really impress Jelaqua; any decent [Mage] could cast [Message]. What was better than a scroll? Which was tempting, though The Wandering Inn had something far better.
The poor Drake charged with selling these items had to cough at this point and mutter into one fist.
“ExceptionsapplynoteverylocationiswithinmagicalreachWistramtakesnoresponsibilityforfailurestoconnectormagicaldamageduetohostilemagicalinterference.”
A portly Gnoll in the front nodded to the [Mage].
“Gesundheit. Why is this book so special, Magus…? More pages means I could have multiple [Message] spells, but that’s not worth that price.”
He pointed at the price, which was sitting at eight hundred gold pieces for the book. Way too high for anyone but Jelaqua, who barely blinked at the fee.
Pretty cheap. Any Gold-ranker would get it, and that Scroll of Messages is only twenty gold? What a steal!
She was considering the scroll when the [Mage] flipped the book open.
“Ah, I’m so glad you asked, sir. This book is capable of creating a ‘chatting room’, wherein multiple people can speak on the same [Message] spell at once! With this, you’re no longer on a dedicated one-way communication spell you need to have a [Mage] link your scrolls to. You can, with ease, write the name of the chatroom up top, here…and voila!”
He wrote ‘Test Room 1’ up top, and instantly, the page filled with glowing text. Jelaqua blinked as she saw a bunch of writing appear.
 
Wistram Academy: This is a showcase of our new Chatting Room feature! Simply write the room you wish, and it will be created for anyone to participate in!
Pheislant’s Mage’s Guild: Exactly! You can also add colored text without needing new ink—in fact, these don’t use ink at all—your complimentary quill will write it for you! Reusable pages! Hello from Pheislant, the weather is cloudy with a chance of rain!
Reim’s Mage’s Guild: Speak to penpals across the world with ease! You can also have multiple conversations going on at once, and all our [Messages] are encrypted with Archmage Eldavin’s magic! The weather is hot and sunny!
First Landing’s Mage’s Guild: For an even more premium option, we offer spellbooks with quills that can auto-write for you as you dictate or read each message aloud! This is just one of the new items coming from Wistram Academy! It’s a bright, blue day over here, weather of 72 degrees! That’s 72 Feldivals’s, our new universal measure of heat!
Elvallian’s Mage’s Guild: ELDER CRELER ATTACK! ABANDON ALL HOPE! THERE ARE THOUSANDS POURING OUT OF THE GROUND! FLEE! FLEE FOR YOUR LIVES!
Wistram Academy: Identity verification services are also available for a small subscription fee! Be careful whom you talk to! Children under the age of thirteen are advised to have a parent when using this product. Wistram Academy will never ask for personal information…
 
What a product! If she’d had that when she was adventuring, Jelaqua would have been talking to other teams or back home…she was counting up their monthly budget.
She was rich. She had fifty thousand gold pieces from the Village of the Dead alone and a smaller fortune saved up, but Maughin didn’t want her to spend her money on him and vice versa.
Jelaqua was running a home like a good [Wife]. She was helping cook, supporting him, trying to fit into Pallass. Not because she felt like she had to conform to his parents’ vision of a respectable bride. She knew she’d never do that.
It was just that it was easier to throw herself into this life she had. If not, then she just had two more graves. A team she’d led to their deaths.
She’d go crazy, so worrying about a budget it was. Jelaqua hummed to herself as if she still couldn’t smell the snow and blood, hear the Hag Queen laughing. Healer Demerra had called it ‘disassociating’, but what did she know?
I’ll have to ask Maughin about this, but I think he’d love to have other [Smiths] on the line! More than one customer was asking about the book and if there were discounts for a smaller one—but the magic didn’t end there. The smiling [Mage] hurried over to another display.
“If you’re interested in our magical items, remember, Wistram Academy is the only institution with such magic, everyone. No one can compare! Any aspiring [Mages] can learn any Tier 4 spells with our new teaching program, and we are now offering dedicated spellcasts! For instance…[Vermin Purge]! Do you have a pest problem in your house? Do you suspect you do? A [Mage] can eradicate them all in a moment and ward your house with our new line of ward spells!”
Dead gods, he had everything. Jelaqua’s brows rose as the [Mage] began offering tons of crazy things. Not just new ward spells that were going to last longer than a year—they had a decade guarantee of good service!—he was showcasing the craziest thing yet.
“Archmage Eldavin is very sympathetic to those entering their advanced years, especially in homes with multiple floors. So, he has enchanted a ‘Magical Elevator’ which can rise and fall with ease. A simple flagstone or other object, even a cushion, becomes a free-floating object! This is a very pricey enchantment, but imagine it! Having an elevator like those around Pallass in your home! Without sound or breakdowns…”
Okay, that was it. Jelaqua actually stepped forwards at this point.
“Hey, I’ve seen a lot of magic in my time, and I have to try this.”
No one just made a [Levitation] spell like that, much less in an enchantment! It had to be fake—Moore couldn’t do that, and he was Gold-rank, and neither could Ulinde. If they could…
The Selphid tried her best to disprove the floating cushion. When it lifted her into the air and people gasped as she rose six feet, she did a huge hop and stomped on it.
The [Mage] below her flinched.
“Miss, Miss, there’s no guardrails or safety spells, you’ll hurt yourself—”
“Don’t worry; Selphid. I’m just testing—”
She grinned at him and then threw her weight from side-to-side, trying to destabilize the spell. If it was just a lifting spell, it’d go sideways and hurl…
The cushion didn’t move. To her dismay, Jelaqua swung herself under the floating object, trying to see if it was actually a sneaky spell that pushed up from below, but there was nothing to interfere with. She swung herself back on top of the cushion, and it was solid as a rock.
The [Mage] seemed incredibly smug as Jelaqua inadvertently sold the enchantment better than he ever could. As it lowered her down, he spoke.
“Invest in your old age or just add a phenomenal new spell to your home today!”
Speechless, the Selphid stood there. She stared down at the levitating cushion and felt, suddenly, old. And young.
This is magic of a kind we never had. Everyone was wide-eyed, gathering around it. It made her feel like a Bronze-rank adventurer seeing a [Fireball] for the first time. And Jelaqua thought—
If this is what they’re coming out with now, what will the world be in a year’s time? Who the hell is this Archmage Eldavin? 
He was truly an Archmage like the old ones, then. Jelaqua wondered, as the [Mage] began informing people they had backlog on orders and receiving his first requests—
How much money is Wistram making on all this?
 
——
 
Jelaqua went drinking that night. Not because she was depressed about the advancement of magical technology—that was actually fun. She just…had nothing else to do.
Seriously, she was as bored as a leech on a War Walker’s back. The Selphid took a mug of ale in hand and sat herself down at Tails and Scales, savoring a hot fry-up of noodles and meat from Lasica. Rufelt was at the bar, slinging drinks, and she was grousing to her only friend in Pallass. Acquaintance? Bar-partner?
Her team was gone. Jelaqua drank deep from the ale, then began to eat with the chopsticks.
“I just feel like there’s more to life than breaking in the new bedspread, you know? Not that I mind that. I reckon we’re going for one to three times a day. Two on average.”
“Uh huh. Wow. That seems like…a lot?”
Jelaqua frowned as she slurped up some noodles. Rufelt glanced at her and her partner; he was probably listening, but busy, and he seemed to like her. Her partner…well, they both were allowed in here.
“Maughin sometimes says so, but I don’t hear him stopping me, you know? I think he’s just worried I’m forcing myself to do it. Which—not the case. Dullahans get a bit prudish about sex. But between you and me—we’re all over it. Positions and everything.”
“P-positions?”
Her partner was eating their stir-fry and listening hard. Jelaqua lifted two fingers.
“Yep. He knew two. But we were doing this yesterday. And then this—wait, I need both hands for that.”
Even Rufelt had to turn and stare. After a second, the young man sitting next to Jelaqua swallowed.
“Whoa. Doesn’t that—take a lot of effort?”
She winked at Troydel.
“Selphids don’t get tired. And a [Smith]’s got stamina for days. So where was I? Right, the sex. You can really switch it up. Like—today I’m a Drake. Yesterday, I was a Human. Makes a difference.”
“R-really?”
She nodded, and Troydel’s cheeks were red as he listened. Jelaqua wondered if this was her life now. Troydel, the Earther who worked as an [Engineer] in Pallass, was her only friend.
Barmate.
Whatever. He definitely seemed really interested in all her talk about sex, which she had to admit, she was probably more open about than most women he’d met. She drained her mug.
“It’s a lot of fun, but you can’t fill an entire day with sex. Well, you can—but then he gets sore, and without healing potions—Maughin has work. So what do you do between all of that?”
She had no job. Jelaqua slumped at the bar.
“We do plenty of stuff together; it’s not that Maughin doesn’t make time. But I need a hobby for myself, you know? He’s happy to either be together or alone. If I’m not around, he’s always working on his mistress over a hot fire.”
Troydel and Rufelt both turned to stare at Jelaqua until they recalled she was talking about the block of Adamantium that Pelt had given Maughin. She called that his mistress, which had resulted in a number of very funny misunderstandings…
“How’s the Adamantium going? No one in the Engineer’s Guild says we’ve got that.”
Troydel swallowed his bite of food, and Jelaqua shrugged.
“Eh, he’s figured out how hot it needs to be to forge. So hot he can’t do it, not in Pallass. He nearly melted a hole into the 9th Floor—wait, speaking of, there’s my big lad!”
She saw the familiar figure bow his head as he entered Tails and Scales. Maughin smiled when he saw her; he was covered in soot and smelled of smoke.
“Jelaqua, I thought you were here. I finished early.”
“Maughin!”
She leapt up, and he eyed her mostly-finished plate. Troydel waved at him, and Maughin nodded to him with little more than brief recollection.
“Do you want to sit here or…?”
“I’ve got dinner for you! Let’s go back to our home. You’re filthy! Rufelt—”
“I’ve got your tab, Jelaqua.”
Rufelt waved at her, and Jelaqua followed Maughin outside, beaming.
“So, how was work?”
He grimaced.
“Boring. And I had a setback with my new smelter and forge. I can’t get anyone willing to build me an Adamantium Forge—no one knows how! All the [Engineers] are too busy, somehow. For Adamantium?”
He began complaining, and Jelaqua listened sympathetically.
“You’d think they’d want it.”
“I would, but something’s going on. The Guildmaster of the Engineer’s Guild, Chief Bellien, told me everything’s being diverted. And I can’t forge it without something far hotter than even a Mithril Forge! I just don’t know how, and I’ve had the block for months…I’m failing Master Pelt’s expectations.”
“Come on, Maughin, don’t get down. You’re not a failure. It’s Adamantium. If you learned to forge it in ten years, you’d still be on-track!”
She was then preoccupied with cheering up her husband, and she guided him back up as he grumbled about wheel axles and a new [Apprentice] who wasn’t pulling his weight. Jelaqua was glad to fuss over Maughin and hear him out. She got him dinner in his home and helped clean his armor.
And then they had sex.
 
——
 
The next day, Jelaqua saw Maughin off for work without his mother, which was a relief. She stood in their entryway for a long moment when he was gone, then scratched at her head.
I have nothing to do today. Nor did she want to wander Pallass. So there was only one thing she could think of. The thing she’d been avoiding.
She took a breath, then steeled herself. Jelaqua marched out the door, then came back in and double-checked she had the Demas Metal flail in her bag of holding.
Just in case.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn hurt like an open wound. It was laid open; a product of the latest disaster, apparently.
She didn’t know.
She hadn’t been visiting. When Liska saw her come through the door from Pallass, she waved Jelaqua back.
“Hey, no need to pay! [Ignore Restrictions: Magnolia’s Fees]. Good to see you, Jelaqua!”
“Thanks.”
Jelaqua smiled weakly at the Gnoll. But the Selphid didn’t enter the inn right away. She stood in the entry hallway for a long time, listening to the rain falling.
Here…no, they hadn’t died here. They’d died at Liscor’s northern gates. She should leave some flowers there, though the rain would wash them away. Here was where a lot of smiles had taken place. Some tears, some Crelers.
Jelaqua walked towards the door and hesitated. She rested a hand on the wood—then stepped aside swiftly. An Antinium nearly ran over her.
Rosencrantz? The Worker recoiled and then smiled.
“Miss Ivirith, you have come to the inn! Welcome! It has been so long.”
“Hey, Rosencrantz. I’m just stopping by. Sorry I wasn’t here for the…”
Jelaqua waved a hand, but the Antinium was opening the door wider. She hesitated.
I shouldn’t be here. I don’t even know if someone died—I didn’t come running when the Goblin King emerged. She’d thought about it, but Maughin had seemed so afraid that she’d just stood outside the door to Pallass and…let the [Soldiers] run through first. Not that it had been open, but she hadn’t gone. Not like Saliss.
Yet the Antinium was beaming at her.
“Let me get a good table for you. Please, enter! Miss Lyonette will be so happy, and Miss Mrsha. You have been gone for so l—”
Then he froze. Gazed at her as Jelaqua lowered her eyes.
“Oh.”
Yeah. The last Halfseeker in Pallass followed Rosencrantz to a table, and she saw his demeanor shift. To anxiety. To uncertainty. He didn’t know how to treat her.
Moore was dead. Ulinde was dead. They had fought willingly, but Seborn had just…left. No arguments, no fights like normal. He and she hadn’t killed each other with recriminations. She deserved it, but he always knew how to twist the blade.
They could have run. They hadn’t. And they had paid that final price.
The Halfseekers were done. She hoped he was doing okay.
Jelaqua stared blankly at a menu and saw, out of the corner of her eye, Rosencrantz hurry over to another familiar face. Peggy. He whispered into her ear, and she brightened and began to wave at Jelaqua—then froze.
She and Rosencrantz glanced at each other, then began whispering furiously and pointing. The Selphid nodded to herself.
Yeah. How the hell do you talk to me? She didn’t know how. Erin would come over, and they’d probably cry or brawl, but this was…hard. She wasn’t part of this inn anymore. She was a visitor, a friend, she hoped, but now she was a Pallassian.
After a while, the two servers sent someone over to her. Asgra. The Cave Goblin peered up at Jelaqua as she shoved a glass of water and menu onto the table.
“Hey, Jelaqua.”
“Hi, Asgra. How are you doing?”
“Um. Good? You is gone for a long time.”
The Cave Goblin glanced at Peggy, who made motions at her. Jelaqua pretended not to see as she forced a smile.
“Sorry about that. And missing the Goblin King thing…how’s the inn?”
Anyone die? She wondered who’d tell her. Asgra clenched at her apron.
“Is, uh, is good. You weren’t there, right. You didn’t visit afterwards?”
“No. Sorry.”
The Cave Goblin stared up at her, and Jelaqua avoided her gaze. Asgra’s eyes darted to Peggy.
“So you, uh, not visit since before the pala—the, uh, Goblin King? And not since? Not once?”
“No.”
“Oh. Okay. Right…I just go over here for a second. You order food! On the house!”
Asgra ran off, and Jelaqua saw all three staff members begin pointing furiously, stare at her, and go running away. She sat there for another minute, gazing at the menu, then pushed herself up.
“Hells, I can’t do this.”
She moved away from the table and headed for the door. She could see how hard this was for them. Someone had died, and they knew she was in mourning.
She shouldn’t have come back.
The old days would never come back. Jelaqua walked past a young man who dodged around her with an open-mouth, but she was too upset to say hello, if she knew him. The dead haunted her memories.
Ulinde, Moore, Kevin…someday, she’d be strong enough to return.
Not today.
 
——
 
Jelaqua left flowers at Liscor’s northern gates. There was a small place for them, an altar the Watch had not cleared away. There were, in fact, other flowers there.
That hurt in a good way. She left them—then looked around Liscor, but she couldn’t stay. The Selphid went back to Pallass, and this time, without anything to do, she went to Tails and Scales to drink.
 
——
 
…It was closed, obviously. The bar opened in the evenings. So Jelaqua wandered the city, looking for a place to drink. The trick wasn’t in the open bar itself; there were plenty. It was in finding one not filled with either [Soldiers] carousing before being shipped off to the New Lands campaigns, or mourning the dead of 2nd Army—or both.
Jelaqua had gone to the first funerals with Maughin. By now, she avoided the processions of people wearing white. She knew they were still grieving, but she couldn’t give them her honest emotions. She wasn’t unsympathetic or gleeful; never. But nor could she mourn them.
She knew what they’d gone into the High Passes to do. Whenever she saw a child walking along, Jelaqua had a vision of Goblin children and had to look away.
It was a war. She had been a [Mercenary] Captain. There was never one she’d felt proud of fighting. So, whenever she entered a bar with people wearing white armbands, she just walked back out.
As for the [Soldiers] leaving for the New Lands—Jelaqua hoped that Pallass’ armies could take care of the grunts. She really did. By now, everyone knew about the magic and food issues, so she hoped that at least this wave would be better prepared.
I’m retired. I can’t put my finger on any of this. I’ll just have a damn drink, go back, give Maughin the night of his life, and…continue.
It was so damn hard. And she’d done it oh so many times.
 
——
 
Jelaqua finally found another bar on the 6th Floor, near the Engineer’s Guild. It was named Discombobulated Theorem, and they served her drink in a mug with a gear on it. In fact, they had a complicated mechanism where you pulled on a lever and the drinks sloshed down a funnel into the right mug that was ejected from a dispenser.
In practice, it made all the drinks taste sort of the same because they used the same slide. Jelaqua didn’t care. It was midmorning, and she was…well, not alone in the bar.
A bunch of [Engineers] were actually sitting around. [Mechanics], [Architects], [Builders]—Jelaqua was surprised by how many of them were having a drink for lunch.
“Hey, lads. I thought you had to be sober to work in the guild.”
She tried to jest with a few of them, and the first [Engineers] raised their heads looking like they were spoiling for a fight. But something about Jelaqua was good at defusing the situation. As if you could sense she was jocular—or that she could put your head through a wall with one hand. After a moment, one of the [Engineers] jerked a head.
“What’s there to work on? Pull up a chair if you want, Miss. Why are you here in the middle of the day?”
“Retired adventurer. What’s your excuse?”
The Gnoll had grease on his fur and the yellow suit of a Pallassian [Engineer], which always got stained with oil. It was a mark of pride, but he growled as he leaned over his cup.
“There’s not enough projects to work on.”
Jelaqua laughed softly.
“Crocodile dick. This is the City of Inventions! I know for a fact that my husband—he’s a [Smith]—can’t get your Guild to do anything.”
The other [Engineers] at the table were two Drakes, a Garuda, and a Human. Not Troydel; they were a bit older. Veteran engineers? All the odder. All of them glowered.
“What he means is there’s no projects, Miss. No budget for it. And if there’s nothing approved, there’s no work. At least, nothing that isn’t shit. Everyone’s either being told to build forts in the New Lands or work on some hush-hush project that only the top-levels work on…or we’re sitting around with barely more than maintenance work!”
That did shock Jelaqua. She eyed the talkative speaker, a Drake.
“How’s that? You’re one of Pallass’ two main forces. Between you and the alchemists, I heard you lot never stopped. Why’s no one approving more projects?”
“We can’t get funding. The Assembly of Crafts gives us work as well as common citizens. But right now, no one wants anything, so we’re saving money. No offense to your husband, but if it’s a project that might require city funding or cost more than we know, it’s not going to get approved. The Guild is in damage-control mode. All because of those bastards at Wistram.”
Everyone in the bar nodded, and Jelaqua felt a light spell activate in her head.
“Oh. Oh. Their new magic?”
All of the [Engineers] glared. The Gnoll raised a paw.
“Their fucking new magic, Miss. Did you see it? Did you see—? Those traitors in the Mage’s Guild are saying it’s better than our work! Because it is!”
He threw up his paws, and half the day-drinkers tossed things at him, but the Gnoll growled around.
“I saw their lifting spells! I jumped up and down on that pillow like I was riding a horse, and it didn’t budge! Some idiot in the crowd asked me if I could build a lifting elevator in their house like that. Soundless? Without any extra space needed? I laughed at him until he turned around and bought a levitating pillow!”
Jelaqua winced. Pallass was famous for its elevators and its gear-based inventions, though!
“Okay, but that’s one thing. There’s plenty for you to make, right?”
Dead silence. One of the Drakes leaned over.
“It’s like Wistram is trying to kill us. We were working on a new concept from the Kid—this moving floor.”
“Shh, don’t tell her that!”
“Shut it, what does it matter? It’s cancelled! Wistram came out with a moving floor spell like they knew we were working on it! Winches and pulleys? How about a dead gods damned anti-gravity rune? Just slap it on a crate of ore and throw it up a floor!”
Oh. Jelaqua remembered seeing those runes. The [Engineers] were practically shaking. With nerves as much as anger.
“The Assembly told Chief Bellein they were thinking of cutting our budget to invest in that.”
“They can’t do that! You’re Pallass’ pride!”
The [Bartender] himself seemed shocked and joined the conversation, but one of the [Engineers] waved a bleary claw at him.
“If the results show that we can’t beat magic, you can’t argue with them. And we can’t. Hells, if that magic lasts ten years, you might as well replace every elevator in Pallass with one of them.”
One of Jelaqua’s drinking partners raised a mug to throw, then lapsed into silence. The Selphid cast around, and it was so damn gloomy in here she felt like she was in apt company. Silently, she slapped a few coins on the table.
“Get me a round for the table, bartender. There’s got to be something, lads. Surely there’s something you can make that magic can’t?”
They regarded each other. One shook her head.
“Even the Kid has no ideas. It’s like all of his ideas are the ones Wistram has—I never thought I’d want him to roll on over to Bellein with a new design, but I’m begging for it. Hells, even that Eye of Pallass was turning all the charms up on him.”
The Gnoll grunted as he drained his mug.
“Hells, I’ll sleep with him if it gets us work!”
Everyone laughed at that and pelted him with mugs. One of the others shouted.
“You want us all to get killed on a zipline? I nominate Oilene!”
“I nominate your sister, Markk!”
“I nominate Markk’s mother!”
That, at least, was funny. Jelaqua grinned until she peered out the window and realized the sun was setting.
“Oh shit, I have to go make dinner!”
Somewhat unsteadily, she got up and ran back to her home. Jelaqua threw together a decent meal, and when Maughin trooped in, she was smiling.
He was gloomy.
“Jelaqua, I just heard the Engineering Guild is in a crisis! Chief Bellein told me I might as well pay Wistram for the forge I need—but I can’t muster that kind of money! The Mage’s Guildmaster himself said it’d cost tens of thousands of gold pieces!”
“I heard about that. Oh, Maughin—c’mere, you. Surely you could build it yourself? I could help with—”
He was shaking his head.
“It’s not just gold, Jelaqua. The amount of heat it’ll take—I don’t know where to begin, Jelaqua. It’s more than just making a bunch of steel. The Adamantium will melt steel like butter in a crucible! How could you…? Well, I have some ideas there, but not for a forge! How was your day?”
Jelaqua hesitated as she tried not to let him smell her breath.
“Oh—you know—I was hanging out with friends.”
“You made some?”
He smiled in relief. She changed the subject fast and got him seated while he complained.
“If only someone would allocate funding back to the [Engineers]! I don’t understand. Maybe magic is more efficient, but Pallass is the City of Inventions, not the City of Incantations! And even they can’t keep up! I hear they’re buying Wistram magic and trying to reverse-engineer it!”
Talking out his woes over dinner took the rest of the evening. Jelaqua swore she’d try to help Maughin…somehow.
“I know! What if I tried to talk to someone important, Maughin? There’s got to be someone who knows a [Senator] or two. I’ll do that; you just work on your end.”
She gave him a huge smile, and he perked up a bit.
And then they had sex.
 
——
 
Jelaqua felt like she was going a tiny bit crazy the next morning. Just a bit. She felt like one of those poor pets they sold in stores. The edible rats. Well, they were all edible. What were they called?
Hamsters. One of them spinning in a wooden wheel. Looking forwards to parts of her day, but going in a circle.
Maybe I should have a kid. Just do a bit of splitting…only, Maughin wouldn’t be part of that. And getting another Selphid to split themselves—no. Maybe they could adopt a kid?
Selphids were one of the few species that there were no fertility spells for. A Dullahan and Centaur would have a baby with far more ease than a Selphid could ever really bear a child with another species’ help. Jelaqua put that out of her head as soon as she had the idea.
She wasn’t ready for that. Managing companies of, well, older children had taught her that it was a stressful life that didn’t solve things. She had to figure this out for herself, and one way that actually did help was trying to resolve Maughin’s issue.
Jelaqua was no well-connected genius. She didn’t have the ear of a [Senator], and Maughin knew a few representatives of the Smithing Guild, but he was already using them. In lieu of ideas, Jelaqua did the only thing she could: she wrote letters to the women she’d met in the brunch and asked them for help, then sent them out via Street Runner.
It was an awkward thing to ask, and Jelaqua was fully prepared for rejection, but the Gold-rank Captain had done far harder things, like begging for gold from clients—this was easy.
Okay, having Linteca trot up with one of the rejection letters wasn’t fun. The Dullahan handed Jelaqua with a knowing gaze.
“Arranging a lunch date, Miss Ivirith?”
Jelaqua snapped back at her.
“No, I’m trying to help Maughin, Linteca! To build his new Adamantium Forge!”
The [Street Runner] wilted slightly in the face of Jelaqua’s actual annoyance. Embarrassed, the Gold-ranker toned down her glare. She shouldn’t do that to civilians. They weren’t her level. She was turning into a real monster in her retirement, like the others.
I can’t do this. I can’t just be one of that lot, who gets married, settles down, and then two years later they’re divorced and back to adventuring. I won’t.
Linteca hesitated—then nodded silently, almost in apology, and trotted off. Jelaqua gloomily sorted through the polite rejection letters, which she knew for a fact you could just get the Runner’s Guild to write for you. Even for Street Runners, it cost gold to send that many letters out!
I should just go bother a [Senator] in person. Though people are still shouting at them about Edellein…how can I help Maughin? Who would know how to convince the Assembly of Crafts or build what he needs?
She had no idea, except maybe a few [Smiths] she’d known, but they weren’t as good as they needed to be. There was only one place that might serve…
The inn.
Before Jelaqua confronted that idea, she was saved—Linteca came running back, breathless.
“Jelaqua, I have something for you. It’s not a rejection letter—I know the stationery. Here!”
She shoved a letter into Jelaqua’s hands. Surprised, the Drake blinked down at the bright blue card and opened it.
 
Dear Jelaqua, I would love to have a brunch to chat! Would you be interested in coming to my mansion? 
—Melika Blackwing
 
Melika? Jelaqua remembered the Garuda, then brightened up. She began to scribble a reply, then turned to Linteca.
“Wait, where does Melika live?”
 
——
 
Melika and Werdin’s mansion was one of the biggest in Pallass. The open skylight, the actual greenery—Jelaqua stared up at it, open-mouthed, and then when someone came to the gates and led her in, she stared at the tree planted in the courtyard until Melika shouted down.
“Jelaqua! I was just setting up brunch! Come on up!”
She was fluttering down from the 2nd floor. Jelaqua strode up the carpeted staircase, staring at the servants and the richness of this place.
“Er, I’m not interrupting, am I, Melika?”
The Garuda was all smiles, and she had more food—fruits snacks from Oteslia and some nuts you could chew on while they sat on a huge veranda staring down across Pallass.
It was richer even than the last place they’d been, and Jelaqua shifted awkwardly, but she’d been in clients’ households before. Melika laughed gaily.
“Not at all! I don’t have that much weighing on my time. I just have the charity fundraiser later tonight—I contribute to a few of them, you know, since I have no job. Aside from that, I mostly just keep up the house and attend social gatherings like the one we were at! But it does get tiring after a time, doesn’t it? Everyone’s gossiping about the New Lands and so stressed…that was the seventeenth one this month!”
The [Socialite] stretched her neck. Jelaqua opened her mouth.
“We’re barely eight days into the month.”
“I know! That’s life in the upper echelons of Pallass, Miss Ivirith. You don’t have to participate, of course. Some of our most famous members refuse to touch high society. But there are benefits. How have you found married life?”
They were talking before Jelaqua knew it. She had a Human body on today and shrugged self-consciously.
“Eh, it’s not hard. That’s sort of the problem. Keeping Maughin and myself fed, managing a household, that’s the kind of stuff I could do blindfolded as a Gold-rank Captain. Then it’s just filling time between making meals. Which, what can you do? I was jumping Maughin’s bones while we were on honeymoon, but now he’s working.”
She realized she might be slightly indecorous and crude, but Melika was rolling with Jelaqua’s more straightforward style in the best example of her class. She laughed, then sighed ruefully.
“I’m afraid that you wouldn’t get much sympathy from our peers. But then, they’re managing a far larger home, Jelaqua. Between finances, a garden, a child—”
“Oh, right. You get one of those and it’s never enough time. Do you have one?”
Melika paused.
“A stepdaughter from Werdin’s last marriage. Salkis. She’s a lovely girl, but in her young adult years, you know? Rebellious, seldom checks in. I worry about her, but I can’t do much. She and Werdin fight like Drake and Gnoll whenever they’re together. I try to play peacemaker, but I think she doesn’t like me much.”
She wore a sad smile, and Jelaqua shook her head. Former marriage? She shouldn’t have asked.
“Ah, well, I appreciate you taking the time to discuss Maughin’s problem. I suspect you’ll tell me it’ll take time and maybe it’s too hard to get the Assembly of Crafts to change their mind, but I have to do something for Maughin. He’s passionate about that, and if he doesn’t actually do something with his mistress, I think he’ll explode.”
The Selphid saw Melika’s eyes widen and realized her mistake.
“Sorry, sorry! I meant that hunk of Adamantium, not an actual mistress…”
The Garuda coughed on her tea and then began laughing as she caught her breath. Jelaqua grinned, orange-cheeked, as Melika shook her head.
“Adventurer Jelaqua, you are a breath of fresh air. May I confess that I’m so impressed by you?”
“Me? I doubt you’ve heard of the Halfseekers.”
Jelaqua waved it off, but Melika insisted.
“No, I have! Of course I have! Your team was so famous across Izril, north and south! You were adventuring twenty years ago when I was a chick…we don’t have that many in Pallass, you know, and none at all in high society, really. I tried to talk to Captain Bevussa, but I rather fear she didn’t like me, and it’s not easy being in Pallass as a Garuda…”
Oh, she knew Bevussa was actually the Captain of the Wings of Pallass? Well, she might as a Garuda. Jelaqua shrugged.
“Isn’t Saliss of Lights around?”
“Yes…but who can talk to him? You’re the friendliest Gold-ranker Captain I’ve met, Miss Jelaqua.”
Well, compared to Halrac, Todi, Ceria…Jelaqua might well actually be that since Ylawes would never have come to Pallass. She scratched at the back of her head.
“I’m just a former Gold-ranker, Melika, if I can call you that. I’m trying to be a good [Wife] for Maughin, you know? I’m too low-level, but…”
She saw Melika stiffen a bit and stopped grinning self-deprecatingly.
“What?”
“You—have the class? [Wife]?”
The Garuda seemed suddenly worried, and Jelaqua shrugged, embarrassed.
“I’m only Level 11. [Loving Wife]. You know—”
“Oh. Oh my word.”
Melika’s eyes widened, and she fluttered her wings at the table, shedding a few feathers. She stared at Jelaqua.
“Really? You have [Loving Wife]? Not [Trophy Wife] or—and it’s just that? Not…colored?”
Ah. The Selphid put down her cup and stretched as she gazed over her shoulders.
“Nope. Just [Loving Wife] from [Lover]. It’s actually a pretty bad class—I got the big class consolidation after really jumping Maughin, so now we keep doing it like Corusdeer in hopes I’ll level up. Good excuse for the both of us, anyways.”
She winked at Melika. There was a joke amongst adventurers that jumping into bed together helped you level. In practice, it was probably that adventurers got together after moments of extreme stress and danger, so that was when you tended to hear a levelup, but Melika was just gazing at Jelaqua, thoughtful. Her next words cut Jelaqua like a blade.
“You actually love him, don’t you? Master Maughin? When I heard about the engagement, I did think it was odd given what I know of Dullahan culture.”
The Selphid paused and eyed the Garuda. She was resplendent, her feathers groomed, in one of those toga-style dresses, wearing jewelry, the height of beauty, sophistication, and society.
Jelaqua Ivirith took her measure in an instant now that she had a read on Melika.
“I wouldn’t marry someone I didn’t love. Is it that uncommon in high society? With you and Werdin?”
Melika avoided Jelaqua’s gaze, fiddling with a fork and spearing a strawberry on her plate.
“You can learn it. Skills help, if you’re so inclined.”
“Sounds miserable.”
“Well, not everyone can be a fighter!”
The Garuda sounded too-defensive, and Jelaqua bet she’d heard that before. The Selphid lifted hands in apology.
“I didn’t mean to imply…it’s just a choice.”
“Thank you, Captain. I just didn’t have the talents in other classes to be an artisan, warrior, or—anything else. This has afforded me a life many would envy. It is a choice. If I could have, I might have been an adventurer, but it’s an impossibility for me. I can barely lift an ornamental sword, let alone a real one!”
Melika looked greatly defensive, and this would be a fine moment to apologize—if the Selphid did that. Instead, Jelaqua just stared across Pallass where she could see some Garuda and Oldblood Drakes flying. Pallass had, as a Walled City, lots of Oldbloods. She murmured.
“Not everyone can be a [Fighter], it’s true. But anyone can be a [Mercenary]. Besides, ornamental swords are usually heavier than real ones. If you wanted to start up the life, you could do it tomorrow. Might be harder in Izril since they’re rarer, but I believe you could do it.”
She met Melika’s eyes, and the Garuda laughed.
“I’d be dead in a weekend, Miss Ivirith.”
“Maybe. Or maybe not. It’s the kind of thing anyone can do if they’re desperate enough. I’ve known [Mercenaries] who started older than I am. In their sixties, that is. Old women who couldn’t swing daggers straight who learn the life. You can be a leader or use a wand—if you’re fighting to get to the next day, anyone can do it. Don’t sell yourself short. And don’t let me imply I’m downtalking marrying into a cushy life. I’d have done it when I was a kid, to get out of my no-name village, in a heartbeat. It’s not easy doing that either.”
Jelaqua hoped she wasn’t offending the Garuda, and the ruffled feathers on Melika began to lower slightly, a good sign. Melika pecked at a few seeds in a big spoon, then cleared her throat.
“Thank you for that vote of confidence, Jelaqua. I—I suppose I’m a bit sensitive about the subject. This is from Baleros?”
Jelaqua nodded easily.
“Oh, yeah, home. But it’s like that everywhere. I’ve been on Chandrar all of two years—too hot for me. I hated rotting in the sun, but making a living like that, the rough work, is possible from Chandrar to lovely Terandria.”
Everyone needed [Mercenaries], even the nicest kingdoms. Melika appeared patently envious and leaned forwards.
“You’ve been to Chandrar? May I ask what it’s like? I’ve always wanted to visit, you know—home.”
The way she said it was with that longing Jelaqua was familiar with. The Selphid glanced at Melika.
“You’re Pallass-born?”
“Ever since I was a chick, yes. I’ve always meant to go, but, well, Werdin isn’t interested, and he’s far too busy, and I can’t just up and leave at any moment. Plenty of my friends have gone, and they say visiting the Shield City of Qualvekkaras or flying with a Garuda tribe is eye-opening. Sometimes…discouraging, but I wanted to know if I’d feel the call. I don’t know my home, you see. I wonder if something would awaken in me if I were to fly under Chandrar’s skies.”
There was that longing in Melika’s eyes, like a caged bird, that Jelaqua didn’t like. Because it seemed to the Selphid that was how the Garuda viewed herself. The Selphid coughed into a fist.
“This may be out of turn, Melika. But if you’re thinking of Chandrar as some miraculous land where you’ll find yourself—in my experience, you don’t, usually. Home is where you are. Something you make. Not something people tell you or a place you have to be. Take it from me, a Halfseeker. Home is where my team is. Home is Pallass. I miss Baleros at times, but just because I’d like to kick around the cities there. Not because it’s where I should be.”
She gave the Garuda woman an embarrassed smile, berating herself for sounding so preachy, like she was back with the Halfseekers again. Melika sat with her beaked mouth open and then stared at Jelaqua again.
“Oh my. That sounds so—I feel a bit better for hearing that. I am in the presence of the Halfseekers’ Captain, aren’t I? For a second there, I felt like I was a child hearing your team! Was that the speech you used to give when you toured Drake cities?”
Jelaqua turned so orange her skin lit up.
“What? Damn it, you remember that?”
“Captain, I told you, I remember the Halfseekers! When you were a Silver-rank team with your original teammates, going around and adventuring on behalf of the few—I saw you in Pallass when your team visited! I was twelve, and my mother had no idea why I wanted to see a Silver-rank team so bad.”
Jelaqua stared up at the ceiling. Dead gods, when was that? Twenty years ago? Moore wouldn’t have joined, then, and not Seborn…
She’d been an adventurer so long. Melika was going on, blushing herself under her feathers.
“It meant something to have a team like yours. You had Scorchlings and that half-Elf with you—”
“Jumpin’ Jiorf.”
“Yes! And you’d go to cities and take on quests on behalf of those who needed it.”
Jelaqua nodded, lost in memories. And it paid like shit. No matter what Ylawes claimed. Or maybe Drakes were stingier than Humans. 
But it had been good. Melika went on, lowering her voice.
“When I heard about Garen, I…I’m so sorry. I always thought it was the most extraordinary thing, Captain Jelaqua. Your team was practically Named-rank. Except for having a Goblin, I think it should have been.”
“Maybe. But that was then.”
More regrets. Jelaqua blinked the visions from her eyes, and Melika went on.
“That’s part of why I work with my charity, you see. We give money to those in need and even to children with health-conditions due to—you should visit! You’d be such an inspiration to them!”
Jelaqua started and began to protest.
“Aw, no. I’m nothing inspiring.”
“Please, Miss Jelaqua? It would mean so much for a Gold-rank adventurer to visit them…”
The pleading gleam in the Garuda’s eyes, and also the knowledge that she’d been a fan of the Halfseekers, meant Jelaqua couldn’t refuse. Well, now she had more stuff to do.
And it was honestly good to have a friend in Melika, a real one. The Garuda promised to talk to a few [Senators], though she admitted it was hard.
“Everyone is fully on board the Wistram magic craze. When they realize we’re just giving money to Wistram and none is coming into the city, it will reverse. It’s a silly trend, and those are hard to shake without something exciting that looks good, Captain Jelaqua. But please let me invite you to more brunches? I would greatly love to be a friend with my heroine.”
She gave Jelaqua a shy smile. In response, the Selphid offered her a two-fingered salute and a real grin.
“Now you’re making me feel old, Melika. I’d be delighted.”
And she meant it. Jelaqua’s heart rose as the odds of Maughin’s forge decreased, but she truly did love having a friend.
Inspiring. It was good to know that’s what the Halfseekers had been. It had been such a funny idea from a down-on-her-luck Selphid that no one wanted to party with. A depressed Jelaqua who’d looked around and realized someone needed to smile at people who didn’t fit in.
“Argh. Thirty years. We did it, lads and lasses.”
She stretched outside of Melika’s mansion and raised a thumb as the Garuda waved her off. Jelaqua turned her head, and her teammates stood behind her, a vision so much more ephemeral than Erin’s statues. But more permanent than even the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Written onto her soul.
The Selphid whistled as she walked into Pallass.
 
——-
 
A [Guardsman] arrested Jelaqua six minutes later. She was in line for the one place she knew she could go, had to go: The Wandering Inn.
It was easier these days. You just gave your passport, and there were four doors operating on the 8th Floor checkpoint. Get past the security—and it was easy on the way out, harder on the way in—and then you just waited for the door to open in the nice lobby.
The Watch was there to keep order, of course, and an officer would walk down the line inspecting people casually. But today, a female Drake halted. She checked something and then gestured.
“Miss? Please step out of line.”
“Who, me?”
Jelaqua blinked, but she complied, and the officer asked her name, checked her passport, which was four times as long as anyone else’s—Jelaqua had to register every dead body she had—and then nodded.
“We’re detaining you temporarily, Miss. Please stand here.”
“What? But what did I do?”
“Miss, please step over there.”
Everyone was staring at her. Jelaqua complied as the Drake spoke into a speaking stone and then eyed Jelaqua as if she’d done something wrong. The Selphid soon realized the [Guards] had no idea why she was being apprehended—but she didn’t have long to wait.
“Right here, Agent.”
Someone came striding down the street towards her, and Jelaqua turned as a Drake in civilian clothes, looking like an [Engineer] of all things, flashed a badge.
“I’ll take it from here, [Guardswoman]. Thank you. This way, Miss Ivirith—”
She would have steered Jelaqua off just with that, but the Drake coughed into one fist, nervous.
“Agent, your papers? New protocols.”
The Drake, who was slightly familiar now that Jelaqua was squinting, pulled a face. Visibly annoyed, she fished out a handful of papers, and the [Guard] had to fuss over them for a good six minutes while speaking into a stone before they could go.
“Damn Fissival idiots.”
That had to be because of the Zevara incident. Another thing Jelaqua had to catch up on at the inn—she needed to buy that Drake a drink! The Eye of Pallass pulled Jelaqua away and then nodded.
“We’re bound for the 10th floor. Follow me, Miss Ivirith.”
“What? Why?”
“Pallass’ business. I’ll explain on the way.”
The Drake strode eighteen steps before she realized Jelaqua wasn’t following. She turned and glared, annoyed. The Selphid was standing in the street, arms folded.
She recognized this agent now. Even wearing the guise of an [Engineer], she didn’t quite fit in.
Maybe it was intentional. She just appeared a bit too sharp, too professional for the outfit she wore. She had light green scales, but Jelaqua bet they could change at a moment’s notice, and short-cropped neck spines. She walked like someone eternally on business, a step faster than anyone else—and this was in a Walled City—and spoke like she outranked everything and everyone, they just didn’t know it yet.
Zemize. She strode back to Jelaqua.
“Captain Jelaqua, on the authority of Pallass—”
“I’m not moving until you tell me what’s going on.”
Jelaqua was no pushover civilian. She was a Gold-rank Captain, and Zemize began to snap, then eyed the Selphid’s annoyed composure. She hesitated, sighed loudly, then jerked her head.
“I have a Pegasus waiting to go, Adventurer Jelaqua, and we’re thirty minutes behind schedule! I was searching for you, and we have multiple damn carriages from Wistram who’ll be way ahead of us—carriages from Wistram.”
She said it like that was a particularly stupid thing, and Jelaqua just raised her brows.
“I’m not flying anywhere. If you have an adventuring problem…”
Zemize drew closer and lowered her voice, ominous.
“Nothing of the sort. This is a safe mission, though one you’ll be sworn to silence on. And that you’re uniquely qualified for on multiple levels. It’s your own fault, Captain.”
She gave Jelaqua a semi-sympathetic, unsympathetic eye as the Selphid frowned at her. What could she have done…? Zemize jerked her head.
“Come on. You had to know being friends with Troydel had consequences.”
“Wait, what?”
 
——
 
Troydel’s best friend was sitting in a carriage attached to a team of Pegasi ten minutes later. She stared at her best friend in Pallass. He stared back.
“Hey, Jelaqua. Thanks for coming.”
“I didn’t have a choice! They just grabbed—why am I your best friend? What about Joseph, Imani, or—”
Jelaqua furiously gestured at Zemize as the agent slid into the carriage and spoke out the window.
“We’re secure. Seatbelts fastened. Take us up!”
The carriage lurched, and Troydel turned green instantly. Jelaqua felt her own sense of vertigo, but the Selphid just suppressed her body’s biological urges. Zemize took over as Troydel clung to his seat.
“We have a forty-minute flight to the rendezvous point. You were Troydel’s first pick within the city, Miss Jelaqua. We have standing orders not to attempt the inn, and their confidentiality is beyond suspect.”
“Standing orders from whom?”
“The Grand Strategist. Troydel asked for someone to go with him to the meeting. Congratulations.”
Jelaqua turned back to Troydel, who was trying not to look out the window.
“Oh fuck, oh fuck—”
“Where am I going?”
The Selphid shouted so loud one of the Pegasi stared over its shoulder, and the [Driver] called for them to be quiet. Zemize hissed as they fell silent.
“Captain, you are to be discreet, and you are sworn to silence on Pallass’ authority! You will provide moral backup to Troydel, who will gain intelligence for us and act according to the outline I gave him. Troydel, have you memorized the list of prompts? Where’s the packet I gave you?”
“I—I, uh, I think I left it behind!”
He felt around his seat, and Zemize’s eyes bulged.
“You what—”
Jelaqua was glancing from the young Earther to Zemize, who seemed stressed, irate, and fed-up all at once. The Selphid harrumphed.
“There’s no way you two slept together. Let alone you hitting that target three times.”
The Eye of Pallass’ glare could have stripped paint off wood. Troydel turned beet red, and Jelaqua turned her ire on Zemize.
“Where are we going? And if you get cute, I’ll rock this carriage so hard it goes upside-down. I might survive a drop. You won’t.”
That threat made even Zemize get refreshingly honest. She spoke quickly.
“You’re aware, of course, of the Earthers, Captain Jelaqua.”
Erin had never had a full conversation with the Selphid, but she’d kept her ears open. She grunted. Zemize gestured at Troydel.
“Troydel is the only Earther under Pallass’ nominal authority. He is heading to a very secret meeting with—”
She sighed
“Wistram’s magical carriages carrying several other Earthers. Those who have been located by other Walled Cities. Principally Fissival. A…well, just a meeting between them. Any information gleaned from them about their world, technology, or whereabouts of other Earthers is of vital importance. Wistram as well, though it’s out of date.”
Oh. That made sense. Jelaqua blinked at Troydel, who was rubbing at a grease spot on his hands with nerves.
“I can’t do this. I’m stressed, Zemize! Why couldn’t you get Imani or Joseph? Everyone’s going to ask about him or the inn, and I can’t explain shit!”
“I tried to get Coach Joseph, but my superiors vetoed it. He’s not Pallassian.”
Zemize snapped back. Jelaqua just sighed. She put her feet up on the seat.
“So you lot finally figured out the Earther thing, huh? Now you’re all running around? I bet every nation and company, from the Four Great Companies to the smallest kingdom, is doing the same.”
The Agent of Pallass didn’t reply. She just pulled out a file and began to coach Troydel on what to say. But the airsick Earther and Jelaqua weren’t having it. The Selphid put a hand on Zemize’s arm.
“While I’ve got you—why is the Engineering Guild underfunded right now? It better not be because everyone’s buying Wistram magic.”
Troydel and Zemize turned and, interestingly, both developed a sour expression. Zemize grunted.
“That’s a move from the Assembly I don’t agree with. Troydel has been putting out new design plans with solid merits—”
Troydel puffed his chest out, and Zemize added.
“—with copious help and teaching—but Wistram appears to have the same ideas he does. And their magical abilities with Archmage Eldavin are unsurpassed. Accordingly, demand for the Engineer’s Guild has plummeted. It is a problem I think is inadequately addressed. Well, that and they are suffering from a shortage of high-level classes.”
Jelaqua nodded to Troydel.
“Ah, so he’s the ‘Kid’. I thought so. What’s the secret project every high-level [Engineer] is working on?”
The Drake’s glower intensified.
“There are too many loose lips in the Guild—! Argh. If you’re being upgraded to this clearance level, you might as well know the rest. I’ll need to re-issue you a passport later with markings on it. Don’t let me forget. The Engineer’s Guild is working on a joint project with several Walled Cities to reproduce Earth-technology. The most…important piece of it.”
Jelaqua glanced at Troydel, and he spoke helpfully.
“She means guns. I don’t really know how they work, but they had me drawing up designs, and all the [Alchemists] except Saliss are on it; except there’s no sulfur on the markets and stuff.”
Jelaqua whistled. She had no idea what a ‘gun’ was, but she could guess. Zemize’s glower intensified.
“We’re behind some competitors. We don’t know who or how long, but we will catch up. In the meantime…it leaves the Engineer’s Guild sadly short on high-level leadership and jobs. We cannot make this an open project.”
“You’d think with Felkhr, everyone would be commissioning his flying wings or something.”
Jelaqua still remembered the Gnoll soaring through the skies. Troydel glared down at his feet, and Zemize pursed her lips as if to spit out the window. The Earther muttered.
“Yeah, I thought that too. Then Archmage Asshat had to start selling Boots of Flying. Mind you, all of it’s ‘premium’. He’s having monarchs bid against the richest people for everything. But, he says, as soon as he secures ‘more manufacturing resources’, it’ll be in the hands of everyone.”
There was a long moment of silence. Then Jelaqua developed the same expression most [Engineers] of Pallass were wearing.
Sometimes, magic took all the magic out of the world.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Earthers had Troydel unhappy. Exactly why, Jelaqua was unclear until he whispered to her. They’d set up a not-at-all conspicuous tent in ‘neutral ground’, and she could see all the guards.
Not literally, but there were too many [Invisibility] spells so the air kept rippling as they walked towards the tent. Jelaqua rolled her eyes.
“Lots of amateurs here. I wonder which city it is? I can see someone’s tail moving there, there’s a parting in the grass there—a shadow there—I bet you could smell half this lot. And then even if they’re all clever and super-invisible, you just know they’re there because of their aura-stuff.”
She threw out an arm casually and clipped someone in the air before they recoiled. Troydel stared at Jelaqua.
“Whoa, you can sense auras? Do you have one?”
She snorted.
“Clams have auras. Can I use mine? Nope. But I picked that trick up back, oh, a decade ago. I never get to use it against invisible enemies. They just never show up when you’re able to counter them.”
“Hah. Good one. Show up.”
“Hm? Oh, ha-ha.”
Troydel was tensing, and Jelaqua nudged him.
“What’s the big deal? You should be happy to see more people from home! I’d have thought you’d be all over them, shooting your shot.”
Zemize shuddered at the mental image. Troydel whispered to Jelaqua.
“Maybe a year ago! But now it’s not—fun. You know? After Erin got killed? It’s not fun pretending to be all that. And what do I tell them? I’m not Joseph. Or Imani! She lost an eye, and she was back to work the next week! I’m just an [Engineer]. Not Kevin, let alone Erin or Ryoka or—”
His mouth shut fast, and he stared at Jelaqua. She missed the gaze and patted him on the shoulder softly.
“Listen, Troydel. You know what you shouldn’t do?”
“Compare myself to others?”
Jelaqua saw the tent beginning to uncamouflage itself as they got closer, a ripple of magical fabric big enough to hold a hundred people easily. She frowned.
“What? No. You should definitely do that so you understand where you are in the world. Below the others? Sure, I won’t argue. But listen.”
She took his shoulder as he glared at her, but her grip was so strong he winced. Jelaqua met Troydel’s gaze.
“You saw Erin die. You know what happened at the Winter Solstice. Even if you weren’t there. You survived this long—and you’re going to hide away and not make the most of seeing people who made it here? You are the kids who made it here.”
She stabbed a finger at the ground.
“No matter how much of it was luck or chance. The lucky living have no right to waste what they’ve got. Now get in there!”
She slapped his back so hard it cracked, and Troydel made a faint sound. But then he glanced at Jelaqua and nodded. Back a bit straighter, he walked into the tent.
“Nice work.”
Zemize murmured to Jelaqua. She was about to vanish when the Selphid grabbed her neck spines.
“Oh no you don’t. You’re going to figure out how many of those kids there are and if they’re being treated well. Not quietly; you’re going to march up to their handlers and ask.”
“Let go of—I am an Agent of Pallass, and each city is operating their own programs—no one is going to just reveal—”
“Are they happy, are they fed, did they bury friends? If the Walled Cities won’t share that, then they’re failing their kids. Get in there.”
Jelaqua practically tossed Zemize through the cloth tentflap. Then she dusted her hands off and turned.
“Anyone else want a pep talk?”
Dead silence from the rippling air and hidden agents. After a moment, a tent pole coughed.
“No thank you, Captain. Can I get an autograph?”
The Selphid signed one, then stomped into the tent.
Kids these days.
 
——
 
Inside, Jelaqua saw she had more work to do. Six Walled Cities had rolled up. There were twenty Earthers in the tent.
Twenty. Pallass really was the smallest contingent! Fissival had the most at seven, but every other Walled City had at least two! And yet the idiots inside the tent had all the spy-abilities of the Walled Cities’ best, and all the charisma of Moass.
Because each group of Earthers was standing in their ‘spot’ with items from each Walled City—produce from Oteslia, and a few animals like Shockwoolies and [Druids], weapons from Manus with trainers, etcetera—like some kind of show-and-tell combined with a meet-and-greet.
But it was really like a dance, because each group of Earthers wasn’t talking to the others. A few were waving or making off-handed, too-loud comments, but they were sticking with their handlers because it was inherently awkward.
Too many in the rooms. Too many staring Drakes or Gnolls speaking into stones, monitoring everything, writing it all down. Too hard to cross the invisible barrier of pressure to be people.
Troydel had frozen in his corner with Pallass’ display of alchemical items and miniature dioramas. Jelaqua walked over and called out, loud.
“Hey, Troydel! Introduce me to your friends!”
“Who—?”
She grabbed him by the shoulder and went for it. Jelaqua was a former [Mercenary Captain]. You had to, had to introduce yourself to potential clients and enemies. If you didn’t, well, each person you ignored might decide it was easier to stab you in the back compared to someone you’d had a drink with and who knew your name.
She moved with Troydel across that social barrier like it wasn’t there because it was not. She headed straight for the first Walled City where two rather thin, dark-skinned kids were standing with a lot of Zeresian agents.
“Halt! Earthers only—”
The first Zeresian agent who tried to stop her put an arm in front of Jelaqua, then a hand on her shoulder. Then he skidded across the carpet. Two more tried that—the two boys goggled at Jelaqua as she came over.
One pointed at her face and the glowing orange lines of her body and recoiled.
“¡Su cara! ¿Qué onda? ¿Está mal o qué?”
Jelaqua had no idea what they’d just said. But she smiled and waved, as if they were Drathians at a port.
“Hello! I’m Jelaqua! This is Troydel. Nice to meet you!”
The Zeresian agents were about to drag Jelaqua off, or try, when Zemize blocked them. Good for her. Three more Agents of Pallass appeared, and they scuffled in the background as everyone turned to watch the meeting. Troydel whispered in her ear urgently.
“Jelaqua, that was another language! I think it was Spanish—I don’t speak Spanish!”
“What, not a word? Give it a shot!”
“I’m from Poland! Uh—uh—hello! Hola. Español?”
The two boys grew excited instantly.
“¡Sí, hablamos español! ¿Pero…dónde rayos estamos?”
“¿Tienes un celu que funcione? ¿Son aliens o qué? Espera… creo que ni habla español.”
“Yes, hello! I don’t speak English well.”
They had a strong accent Jelaqua had never heard before. Troydel mimed himself. He spoke with exaggerated slowness, gesticulating.
“I—Troydel. This—Jelaqua. My name is Troydel. Good to meet you. Muchos gracias!”
The two boys glanced at each other, and Jelaqua sighed. She stepped on Troydel’s foot.
“They’re not idiots, Troydel. Hey, hello! Jelaqua Ivirith. Adventurer.”
She stuck out a hand, and one of them blinked, then cautiously took it. He exclaimed at her grip, then smiled gingerly.
“Luis and Inti. Hello! We are…from Peru!”
“Peru!”
Troydel exclaimed, and then the ice broke faster. He pointed at his face.
“I’m from Poland!”
Inti exclaimed.
“Poland! Do you have a phone? “¿Dónde carajo queda Polonia?”
They were having trouble until a Zeresian [Mage] huffily brought something over.
“We communicate by written [Translation] spell. If you write down a question, I can cast the spell…”
Oh, that’s how they did it? Jelaqua gestured at Troydel.
“We’re from Pallass. City of Inventions! Come on over, lads, and we’ll show you what’s here. Where did you two come from? I mean, how’d you end up with Zeres?”
She pointed. There was a delay as one of the two boys—they couldn’t have been more than fourteen and fifteen respectively—grabbed a quill and wrote. Then the answer was translated. Troydel exclaimed.
“You were at sea?”
That didn’t surprise Jelaqua. They seemed too thin and sunburnt; she doubted Zeres was treating them that badly. One nodded, solemn.
“Sixteen days.”
“Holy shit, dude! How long have you been here? Hold on, how long…”
Luis read the question and then nodded. He turned to Inti and then counted.
“Twenty-three? How long are you?”
Troydel blinked. He turned to Jelaqua as if she knew and ruffled at his hair.
“It must have been…two years, now. I’ve lost count.”
The Zeresian [Mage] stared at him, and Zemize turned with a hiss, but Jelaqua just glared at her patiently. The two boys began whispering in awe. In the common tongue this time.
“Spirited Generation! Spirited…”
They knew something, but Troydel wore a blank expression as they grew excited, then, Jelaqua thought, afraid. She smiled at them.
“I’m a Selphid. Here, let me write down…a Selphid. I live in dead bodies. See?”
One of them nearly leapt a foot in the air when she showed part of her real body and waved it at them out of a fingernail with a hole in it. They stared at her in horror—but then one began exclaiming.
“¡Es un alien de verdad! Pero es más bacán que estos lamecerdos. ¿Dijo que era qué? ¿Una aventurera?”
They seemed to like her, especially when Jelaqua showed them her muscles and mimed throwing Troydel. The young man from Poland was engrossed in a translated series of questions when someone else came over.
“Hey, did I hear you guys are from Peru? We’ve got a Spanish-speaker here! Marco, c’mon!”
A gaggle of four Earthers approached from Oteslia’s camp. They also had fruits and vegetables, which the two boys instantly perked up on seeing. Jelaqua grinned at a nervous young man—they were all young, but he was twenty-five, maybe?
“Well, you speak common. Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-ranked adventurer. I’m just here as Troydel’s friend since no one else could make it. And you are?”
He blinked at her, but smiled faintly.
“Ertan, from Turkey. Ah, um, [Entrepreneur].”
“What kind of class is that?”
He gave her an embarrassed shrug as three more came over, one boy, two girls.
“It’s my class. From Earth. I got it when I came over. We all were at the ruins of Troy—they’re all tourists. This is Marco, Cidney, Anh… ”
Each one from a different nation, apparently, but they all had a far stronger command of the common tongue. Troydel introduced himself hesitantly.
“How long have you been here?”
“Only two months. We were working in Oteslia when they found us! Did you say two years? Are you part of the Spirited Generation? Does anyone have a working phone? And the list?”
Cidney was from Austria, Anh from Vietnam, Marco from Portugal—when Troydel heard that, he got very excited.
“I know someone from Spain! Joseph!”
“Joseph!”
Everyone but the two young Peruvians knew that name. The word drew over more Earthers, and one bounded over.
“You know Joseph? Is he coming?”
“We were saving up to visit him! I sent him a [Message], but the Mage’s Guild says he got too many—”
“Are we all going to live together now? I hope so! I can’t stand where we are! We can’t walk around without an armed escort, and they’re all getting ready to fight giant ants all the time!”
It was a babble of voices, and then everyone was shaking hands, asking where the others were from, and trying to date when they arrived. Jelaqua smiled as she introduced the concept of ‘Selphids’. The only group that knew her species, in fact, was the Fissival one.
“We knew a Mage Sa’la at the academy! This is so cool—Troydel, you’re one of the oldest Earthers we’ve met! Only Elena was here when you were! But of course, we’re not all from the same time. What year do you remember being on Earth?”
One of the Earthers with more familiarity about this world was named Andrea. There was Saif, Eun, Jacques…they had an exasperated familiarity with their Fissival agents they were trying to get away from.
Troydel frowned at her.
“I’m from 2018. I knew someone from 2016.”
“2016! It’s been…five years since then!”
“Five years?”
“¿Qué está diciendo? ¿2016? Pero si estamos en 2025…”
The Earthers were comparing dates, which alarmed them as much as Jelaqua when she realized what was going on. She held up her hands.
“Hold on, hold on. You’re saying only two years passed for Troydel, but as many as six years passed for you all?”
“Yes! Six years!”
“That can’t be right.”
“Nine.”
That came from Inti, softly, and provoked a sudden silence in the room. The Earthers glanced at each other as the excitement drained from every face. Then Eun, a South Korean [Student], turned to Troydel.
“Are you the only one from Pallass? Did you lose anyone else?”
Troydel gazed at Eun for a long moment and swallowed.
“Not me. I mean, sort of. Yes. I know some others who died.”
Eun nodded, somber. In the resulting silence, someone began to cry. Jelaqua pushed agents and Earthers aside and found a young Earther from Salazsar’s section.
“Hey. Hey, kid. It’s okay. It’s going to be okay, alright?”
Her contingent had seen losses. The way they reacted to Troydel’s words, and the expressions on the other Earthers’ faces, told the Selphid a story. Those who’d seen fellow Earthers die—and the dawning horror on those who had been spared that so far.
The girl that Jelaqua was holding was nearly as pale-skinned as the Selphid and had blonde hair and pale eyes. From somewhere cold, Jelaqua guessed. She stared up at the Selphid and flinched as she felt Jelaqua’s cold hands, but the Selphid was murmuring to her.
“Hey, kid. It’ll be okay. Just breathe. What’s your name? Troydel, introduce yourself. We’re from Pallass.”
Someone spoke as Troydel came over to squat and hold out a hand. Jacques, who hailed from Ireland, flushed as he raised his voice.
“God damn. God damn it. This isn’t funny. This isn’t fair. Why is no one from home doing anything about this? All the scientists and all the news—and now we’re here, being held hostage by these bastards!”
The professional billiards player pointed at the agents of Fissival, and a rumble ran through the Earthers. The two Peruvian kids glanced at each other in alarm as the [Mage] refused to translate that—but Marco did. Jelaqua saw one of Manus’ agents lift a claw to his earhole, then call out.
“Break! We’re calling a break—Manus’ agents, disengage!”
Then Drakes and Gnolls were there, and the Earthers were protesting.
“Wait, you can’t—”
“Let go! I want to talk to—”
It descended into chaos, and Jelaqua turned to Zemize. The Pallassian agent hovered there, but didn’t grab Troydel as he tried to hold the hand of the Earther in Salazsar’s care and spoke, urgent.
“Hey, just send a [Message] to Troydel, Joseph, or The Wandering Inn if they let you, okay? There’s more of us and—”
The Salazsarian Gemskeepers were trying to separate them, but Zemize held out a claw. She didn’t grab Troydel. She looked like she knew Jelaqua would hit her if she did.
 
——
 
The flight back to Pallass was silent until they landed in Pallass. Troydel kept staring back at the place they had been camped, and all of his nerves had turned into a longing to go back.
“That was fucked, Zemize.”
He managed that after a while. Zemize opened her mouth, and Jelaqua spoke over her, staring out a window.
“What did you expect? They know they’re captives, and you put them in a room like pigs you were trying to fatten up. They’re all going to be unhappy. You’d better arrange more meetings.”
“We will. We want them to be happy, but each Walled City is territorial—”
Jelaqua turned her head.
“They’re children. What is Zeres going to do to their two boys? Make them build weapons of war?”
“They’ll be treated well.”
“They’d better.”
The entire affair left a sour taste in Jelaqua’s mouth, and her tastebuds were all but nonexistent in this body. But if there was one positive effect, it was on Troydel.
“I’m gonna write them all letters. I can do that, right? Joseph and Imani and the others will want to too!”
Zemize held up a claw.
“Troydel, you cannot tell the others about this. If you try, I will stop you and restrict your access to the inn.”
He wore the most stubborn expression Jelaqua had seen so far. He stopped, gritted his teeth, then the [Engineer] swung around.
“Well, I can write them and meet up, right? I’m going to do that! And those other Walled Cities have no fucking clue how to charge up a smartphone, except Fissival! If they want to find out, they’d better—better let us meet up! I’m going to the inn.”
“You can’t—”
Troydel shouted at Zemize.
“To get recipes from their countries from Imani! And her snacks! And a bicycle and soccer ball—I can do that, right?”
He stormed off so fast that Zemize had to run to catch up, calling for backup. Jelaqua unfolded herself from the Pegasus’ carriage. She remarked to the air as she watched Troydel running.
“Hey, he looks older already.”
She was mildly proud of him. Jelaqua hoped his determination stuck.
 
——
 
There was nothing she could do about the Earthers in other Walled Cities. One Selphid couldn’t do much other than get herself in trouble, but Jelaqua still walked around Pallass for a while, thinking about everything.
Making weapons of war. Each city probably trying to find more Earthers, build their technology. But what the heck does that mean? You can’t copy something like a flying carpet overnight. They say they’re building these…‘guns’. I didn’t see 2nd Army with them. I bet it’s the work of years, not months.
A lot of chasing big projects that might pay off, but like Felkhr’s flying, would only appear in the long term. In the short? Jelaqua sort of thought the Walled Cities were paddling through a poo swamp with Wailer Frogs underneath their boat. Compared to Wistram, they were moving at a snail’s pace.
No wonder they were so upset. In their race, in their hurry, they were letting things fall behind they, ironically, shouldn’t. Like the Engineer’s Guild. What Pallass needed, what Maughin needed, and Jelaqua herself, was a spark of change.
Not the slow-moving rock of the shifting tectonic plate of industry and civilization, but the burning spark of innovation, the crackle of change that arced into the future at a speed that caught the eye and swept everything up with it.
You could not predict nor call upon that power easily. But you could cultivate a place where it appeared. For that…there was always that building which had defined so much of this period of her life.
The inn.
 
——
 
This time, Liska paid more attention to Jelaqua.
“Oh shit. It’s you. Hey…you! Not going back to Pallass yet, right? I, uh—hold on—where’s my speaking stone—here’s the door to the inn. Right here, see? Door.”
She got up and actually ran to slap the door to the inn for some reason. Liska began panicking the moment Jelaqua appeared, and the Selphid sighed.
“No, I’m not heading back right away. Sorry if I missed Lyonette or someone.”
“Someone, yes, right. Uh, how can I help you?”
“Actually, I’d like to go to Esthelm.”
She wanted to speak to Pelt on Maughin’s behalf. However, it seemed like the inn wanted her. Liska’s eyes slid to the door.
“Why don’t you, uh, uh, go to the inn? We’ve got a special on all Selphid guests.”
“Oh, really? Do I eat free?”
Jelaqua was tired and played into the game. Liska nodded a few times.
“Yep! Go ahead!”
She gestured, and Jelaqua stepped out of line—and so did a pale-skinned Gnoll, who brushed at his fur.
“A Selphid eats free special? Parent’s tits, what a strange city! I like it. Hello, Sister.”
A Selphid traveller grinned at Jelaqua, and she laughed at Liska’s face.
“Brother! Where are you from?”
“Oh, Baleros, but I came to see the New Lands. Scout it out for home—”
They headed into the common room, chatting, and Jelaqua winked at him as Asgra ran up.
“Hey, my friend is here for the Selphid eats-free-special? I might have to leave you, Brother. But if you’re in Pallass, let’s have a drink!”
The happy Selphid accepted a menu as Asgra stared at him, then Jelaqua, then ran to tell on Liska. Ishkr slapped his face at the bar, but then came over with a smile to welcome the Selphid.
And Jelaqua saw them looking at her, and this time, perceived the difference in their expressions.
“I…think there’s either something really good, or really bad you have to tell me.”
She commented to Peggy as the Hobgoblin came over to take her order. Peggy hesitated, then nodded.
“Yah. You want something real sweet first? Not spicy. Is really bad when you get snotty and touch eyes.”
Jelaqua laughed.
“I just ate, actually, and I’m all sick from the air. Can I get something to settle my stomach? Just a juice or…”
She took one mouthful of blue fruit juice when Peggy came back.
“You, uh, want to go inside the [Garden], Miss Jelaqua? Real quick. Okay, not quick. Also, here.”
She handed Jelaqua an entire roll of toilet paper. Jelaqua stared at it.
“For your eyes.”
Well, that wasn’t ominous at all. The Selphid sighed as she walked into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Oh…her eyes travelled up to that mist-covered hill as the door closed behind her. No one was in the garden. Well, Apista, flitting from the yellow…flowers? Jelaqua stared at them. Then she came up the hill and bent down.
“These aren’t Faerie Flowers. What happened?”
They were just ordinary yellow flowers. She felt shivery when she saw that. And she knew something terrible had happened. Something vast. The Goblin King had pushed a hole through the wall of the inn, but even she had trouble believing it.
Then she heard the door open and sensed something appearing behind her. It closed—then opened again. Two people? A voice murmured.
“Oh shit, here we go again. Uh—the flowers got destroyed, Jelaqua. It’s…a lot happened. It’s really good to see you.”
That voice. Jelaqua blinked as she stared down at the flowers. Then the Selphid closed her eyes and sensed the two behind her.
Someone middle-sized behind her, lean enough, and someone very tall, taller than Maughin, even, standing just beside him. 
No. No…it was close, but not quite the same dimensions she knew. But even so, she felt her actual body writhing as she froze and then stood up. She turned slowly.
Then she saw Kevin’s face and the torso of someone impossibly tall, a billowing cloak of green and brown surrounding him. Jelaqua stared into Kevin’s eyes and his pained, happy smile. Only for a moment.
Then she gazed up, and her face crumpled up.
“Moore?”
He stood like a statue himself, and she realized he had a huge beard, far grander than the one she knew. He was taller and older and…stronger. It rolled off him, a casual aura of power.
Moore. Not Moore.
Lord Moore’s face was filled with frozen pain. As of someone seeing a dead woman. A ghost. Kevin glanced between the two and realized that if this was Jelaqua’s first moment seeing her friend…
Lord Moore of the future had lost Jelaqua Ivirith years ago, fighting the Mother of Graves. He leaned on his staff as if it were the only thing keeping him up. A half-Giant whose voice croaked as he tried to explain, tried to say—
“Jelaqua. A strange miracle allows us…you and I in one spot is—I would have found you, but I feared—”
Words failed him. He raised a hand, then lowered it, afraid to touch her or make the first move. Kevin was apprehensive too.
Those who witnessed the dead returning to life often wept. But they could also—rage in denial or lash out in hurt, regrets. He stood back as the Selphid gazed up at Moore, and the strangest thing happened.
Unlike Pelt or Hedault, Imani or Troydel, or anyone else that Kevin had met since his return, from Zevara to Fierre…the Selphid woman did not seem surprised when she saw the two of them standing next to the rain pouring in from the ceiling of the domed [Garden of Sanctuary].
The Selphid stood, a seemingly young woman with orange eyes, her dead body swaying in the breeze, like an undead. But what undead could smile like that? For one moment, she was shocked—and then the most graceful smile touched her lips. Understanding and calm.
It was so surprising that Kevin’s and Moore’s own trepidation and grief turned to shock, and they gazed at her.
Jelaqua nodded once.
Suddenly, it all made sense. Her peaceful days, the oddities, everything. She murmured as she reached out, and Lord Moore recoiled—then let her touch his chest. She put a hand on it gently, then reached up to tug his beard with a faint smile.
“You look so old, Moore. So much more distinguished. Where’s Ulinde?”
“I—I—she wasn’t with me.”
That was all he managed. A voice so filled with pain that she closed her eyes. Then nodded. She gave Kevin a smile so radiant his knees turned weak, and he thought Maughin was the luckiest guy ever.
“Kevin, you rascal. You look just right. I wished I could have said goodbye. I’m sorry I missed your funeral.”
“That’s okay. I know you and Moore and Seborn and Ulinde were…you guys were real heroes.”
He croaked. Jelaqua nodded. Then she spoke softly as the inn’s staff and family peeked into the garden, as Apista buzzed down and then away before she cried. But the Selphid’s words hit them all, like her class. [Steelforged Tempest]. Everyone could catch what she threw.
“Ah. This is so much kinder than what Erin described. Or no, she said it was like this, didn’t she?”
Moore and Kevin blinked at her, unprepared for this strange statement. Then Kevin understood; Lord Moore could not. He had never had this conversation in his world. Kevin stepped back.
“Jelaqua, you think—”
The Selphid gently beamed up at Moore as she stood on tip-toes and reached as high as she could to cup his face in her hands. She nodded to Kevin.
“I never got up, did I? This is such a fine dream. So much better than I could want or deserve. But this…?”
She gently tapped Moore’s cheek, and he flinched, then realized what she believed. His eyes widened, and Jelaqua stepped back. At peace with herself. She turned to Kevin and shook her head.
“I don’t need it. This is enough, Kevin. I was staying away from here on purpose. But I’m happy, I am. Tell that Goddess of Death, or whomever she is, I’m ready now.”
There was no point reaching for a flail. No weapon she could wield. Now that she knew she stood in the lands of the dead, in this dream, perhaps the final dream before she passed on, the Selphid breathed in and out and gazed at Moore, and her heart shook so much she almost believed it was still beating.
She waited
—and waited
…and waited to wake up.

Interlude - Halfseekers (Pt. 2) (2025-09-11)

She ran.
Out of the inn, through the open door, into the rain-covered plaza of the city her team had given everything for. Ignoring the voices calling her name.
Ran faster than anyone could dream, a blur, pushing the corpse’s body to its limits until even the rain itself seemed frozen in time. But it was never fast enough.
He was behind her. She thought this inn could take no more from her. This wretched place, that [Innkeeper] who asked for everything with tears and a smile. So it had given her something instead.
It couldn’t be real. And if it was?
Moore.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith ran through the streets of Liscor until she ruptured a tendon in her body’s legs and went crashing down. She skidded across the ground, shredding her clothing and the outer layer of her body’s skin from the sheer speed she’d been running and the friction.
She felt none of it, of course. Got up, limping past a [Knight] in armor sitting on the rainy street, past pedestrians staring and crying out in horror, heedless of the [Guardswoman] who asked her a question. Her corpse’s senses were gone, replaced by the ringing in her ears, the vision burned into her eyes. The agony in her chest.
He was alive. They were alive.
How, exactly, Jelaqua did not know. Kevin had been explaining it when she’d turn and run out of the garden and inn. Now, she kept stumbling forwards until her overexerted body did collapse on the street. Then she lay and stared up at the sky as rain fell on her face.
She didn’t move for a long, long while. Only thought.
This is wrong.
This can’t be happening.
How, how could it ever be?
I will kill her for this, that [Innkeeper].
Moore. What will Seborn say?
It’s not fair.
The Selphid wanted to hurt something. She writhed around in her corpse, tearing through veins and organs, heedless of the damage she was causing to the precious vessel she normally treated with respect. Unable to control it. Unable to comprehend anything.
Moore was alive. Only, it wasn’t Moore. He’d said that, hadn’t he? An older Moore?
It didn’t matter. It was him. She would have known him as a baby or aged. There was no faking the way he smiled, his very aura, was there?
Could it be a Greater Mimic? An illusion? Am I dead?
Hope blossomed in her chest, a kind of twisted hope that this was in fact part of something truly horrific. Because if it was not?
It hurt far too much.
I have buried him. I have mourned him. He is gone, and if he is alive, how can I survive it? My heart can’t. Am I a fool? I should be so happy, but I am not.
She felt destroyed. As if someone had reached into her chest and pulled out her heart. It was—so strange. But someone coming back to life hurt almost more than their deaths.
Jelaqua had buried so many friends over the years. She had become used to death as a companion, that merciless thing you cursed that came for everyone. So she wasn’t numb to it, but she understood it.
If causality’s wheel could be reversed, if miracles could happen—then it was more terrifying. Then she didn’t know how the world worked. Then there was a part of her that would always ask: were you too weak? Did you not do enough, care enough?
Could you save them all? Bring them back? Will you mourn and weep and then be forced to do it all again? Will you stop grieving for the dead because you can never be sure it’s over?
It was devaluing death. The Selphid realized that was part of it. As a Selphid, she had gotten used to mortality since the moment she could move. She had lived in a dead body; she had to buy or procure more dead bodies, and everyone who died was loved or hated by someone. The violation of their corpses, the gall to ask a family member to wear their beloved’s corpse for your own ends—
Selphids respected the dead. Or they went the other way and saw death as a convenience, corpses a disposable tool. What Jelaqua had seen in the inn felt like an abhorrent thing.
So, a thought surfaced in her mind.
I have to kill that thing wearing Moore’s face. That’s not him. That’s some stranger pretending to be an older him. I cannot let him live. I must call Seborn and right this madness.
And Kevin too? Jelaqua didn’t think of the Human for a second. She reconnected her body to her eyes’ optical nerves and stared up at the sky. When she tried to raise her head, it was with murder in her soul. She realized she’d snapped a bit. All adventurers had their line, their breaking point, and she had hit hers.
Rainwater was trickling down her face. The Selphid began to get up—and realized she couldn’t. She checked the muscles, reconnecting to her body, and realized she’d done far more damage in her unthinking flight than she’d thought.
Every muscle in her legs was torn or inflamed. This body still worked—but not every function did, so there was no blood to clot nor capacity of the muscles to heal save for her intervention. Her right leg’s major tendons had just snapped—and her thrashing had damaged the nerve connections to other parts of her body.
Jelaqua began trying to repair them, and the senses she did have access to without damage were vision, hearing—the cranial nerves were fine. So she became aware that she was surrounded by people, all speaking with agitation.
Liscorians. She was in Liscor. She must have fled here through the door…they were speaking in a babble. A woman’s voice was loudest and nearest.
“—just ran through here, then collapsed, Watchman. She’s pale to death! Is—is it a monster?”
“Not a monster. Something in her flesh. Look, the orange—”
“She’s a Selphid, you idiots. Never seen one before?”
That came from a sneering Drake, and then there was an authoritative bark.
“Alright, move back, everyone. Guardswoman Jerci, check the way she came for disturbances. Is she a [Thief]? Was there a fight? Miss Selphid, can you hear me? I’m Senior Guardsman Lens. Is there a crisis? Are you hurt?”
Someone bent over her. A Drake. He waved a hand in front of her. Jelaqua tried and found she could move her eyes, but she was busy reconnecting all the damaged nerves, and it was a mess. She blinked once.
“Looks like she’s awake, but—Watch Captain Ronss, I have a fallen Selphid on Shield Spider Way. No clue what’s going on. I’d send for a [Healer], but…I don’t think I need backup. I’ll have a patrol help me if I need it. We may need to go to Invrisil or Pallass for help.”
How embarrassing. Jelaqua lay there, working on her body, wishing she could use her mouth to tell him she was fine. She just had to get back to the inn and…
Kill Moore? The murderous rage in her mind was already abating. Injure him? Injure someone.
Who was responsible for this? Why?
The Goblin King. The crowd milled around, whispering.
“Selphids? So that’s a corpse? Don’t look, dear!”
“Mother, is she okay?”
“It’s so freakish. It could have hurt someone—why are they allowed in the city? First Goblins, now this?”
That was the same speaker as before. A Drake, vocal. Jelaqua’s fury returned. My team died for this city. I’ll kill you. I’ll—
Guardsman Lens swung around and barked.
“That’s enough of that! Move further back!”
The blowhard wasn’t done.
“You should arrest her for disrupting the peace, Guardsman! And public nuisance. I know the laws. Under Liscorian law, chapter, uh…I’m filing a complaint as a member of the public for my health and safety!”
“You weren’t anywhere near this Selphid when she fell, sir.”
Lens addressed the Drake, and the figure Jelaqua could dimly see, upside down, responded.
“That’s a corpse! I could be infected or get a—a parasite or something! Look, her skin is on the street; is that hygienic?”
He pointed, and Jelaqua imagined it was bad. Someone gagged, and Lens hesitated, about to respond. Then there was a faint murmur—and someone else spoke up with a bright voice.
“Cheerio, good fellow! Are you a longstanding resident of this here domicile, my friend? I, too, am a resident of fine Liscor!”
A Drake with a far stranger modality of speech and a faint accent that did away with the usual extended ‘s’ tapped the first Drake on the shoulder. He hesitated.
“Uh, yes. Liscorian citizen, born and raised. Original.”
He glowered around at the mix of Humans, Gnolls, and other pedestrians with that look of someone who knew he was superior. The Drake lady nodded and adjusted a broad, pink hat which let the water run off the top.
“I’m new to the city myself. Barely four months from Veish. I hopped on the carriage to make my mark in this spot.”
Wasn’t that all the way southwest, next to Zeres? It explained how odd she sounded. Jelaqua’s arm wiggled as she finally began to figure out what did what.
“Good for you. Do you want to add to the complaint?”
The offended Drake grunted, eying the female Drake up and down. She had pale white scales, and she tipped her hat up.
“No, I was rather wondering if you were new to the city. Under four months. Because then I could quite understand you, sir, for your unprepossessing conduct. But if you were here last winter, then I say, how dare you, sir? Or does it not cross your recollection that during the terrible events of the Winter Solstice, a Selphid and her team fought to defend Liscor? I would think everyone living in the northern district remembers. I would be ashamed to hear such words coming out of my own mouth, sir, and I would now like to give you one of these. Oh, please hold this.”
She handed a handbag to the Drake, whose mouth was still open when she turned and slapped him in the face with her tail. It was an elegant move that Jelaqua had never seen before. The Drake twirled fast and angled her body so her tail came up and thwacked the other Drake across the face.
It probably hurt more than a regular slap given the weight of the tail and the speed it hit the Drake. It also seemed hugely offensive—certainly, the Drake grabbed his face and began screaming as she took her handbag back.
“Assault! I’ve been assaulted! You all saw it! Guardsman, arrest this woman!”
He pointed a trembling claw at the female Drake, who put her hands on her hips as Guardsman Lens groaned.
“Miss, you just assaulted another citizen of Liscor in public.”
“Yes, and I’d do it again, Guardsman! For shame, sir! You have no gratitude or good nature in a single scale of your body. Someone collapses on the ground and your first reaction is to charge them?”
There was a murmur, then someone spoke up.
“She’s right. I was in Liscor too when the Draugr were coming at the walls. I remember the north gates. You’re out of line, chum. I ought to slap you too, but I’ve got no tail. I’ll settle for a punch.”
“Get away from me! Guardsman, I’m in danger from this thug of a Human!”
“Everyone calm down. Sir, do not punch that Drake—”
Lens raised his hands as Jelaqua heard more voices. She was trying to sit up now, because she really wanted to see, but she could hear well enough.
“I’ll hit him too. Hold my shopping, dear.”
“Back off, all of you! I’ve got a dagger!”
“Hey, he’s threatening us. You see that, Guardsman? Also, I have this sword, buddy. What would you do if I—”
“No weapons! Put them down! Guardswoman Jerci—get over here!”
The crowd was rumbling by the time Jerci, a young Gnoll, ran past with an entire squad of the Watch. The unfortunate Drake was surrounded by Liscorians. A woman was smiling at him as he tensed—there were at least six pairs of hands on him, so movement might have been impossible even if he wanted it.
“We’re not going to hurt you, pal. That would be against the law, which you broke by threatening us with a dagger. With a child around. Absolutely not; right, everyone?”
Everyone nodded, and she pointed.
“Oh my, is that a fire? You’d better go that way, Senior Guardsman!”
Two of the Watch actually spun around in the pouring rain. Senior Guardsman Lens glanced at them and covered what might have been a smile. Then he raised his claws.
“Alright, let him go. Sir, sheathe your dagger, now. I advise you to go about your day, or I will begin charging individuals, starting with you for disorderly conduct, drawing a blade with malice aforethought, and…”
The Drake ran for it when they let him go. It almost made Jelaqua smile. Almost made her forget Moore, but they brought it back as well.
They remembered. If not the Halfseekers by name…
Oh, dead gods, what will I do? I can’t face him.
It was ‘face him’, now, instead of rip his heart out. She felt tired, and more tired when she realized this was going to be a problem. Everyone had turned back to her.
“Well now, I quite enjoyed that Liscorian civility, but what do we do about this poor Selphid? She’s still down. Does anyone know a [Healer] who works with Selphids?”
“Not here. Jerci, was there an issue…?”
“I think I saw some people running out of the door to the inn, Guardsman Lens, but they said it wasn’t a crisis. And the Doorgnoll told me to eat shit and get lost.”
“Huh. Well…damn. Okay, we might have to load her up just to get her off the street and out of the rain. Let’s get a wagon or—”
They were debating what to do with her, and Jelaqua was desperately searching for the muscle that worked her tongue, when someone interrupted.
“Excuse me. I’m a fellow Selphid. I saw my sister running out the inn and was concerned. May I approach, Guardsman? I might be able to help.”
Lens turned, and Jelaqua recognized the voice. The other Selphid—
“Your sister? You know this woman, ah, sir?”
“Pardon me—turn of phrase. We’re all brothers or sisters…I’m a Selphid [Merchant] from Baleros. Hiveno. May I approach her? Selphids can communicate in-person. It may be somewhat disturbing…”
“Go ahead. Please. Er, do we need to get you anything?”
Hiveno assured him no, and Lens had everyone else step back. Jelaqua knew what was coming, and she sensed a foreign entity entering her body from the earhole.
“Sister? Are you well? I assume you heard most of that. Unless you’re more injured than I thought?”
Selphids ‘talked’ in various ways in person. Their long, malleable bodies could speak with normal words or use other signals—or even their minds to telepathically talk, but neither Jelaqua nor Hiveno was like that. She responded.
“I’m fine. I destroyed my internals, and I’ve tangled everything up.”
Hiveno quested around respectfully, keeping back from the main area where her body was moving about on multiple fronts.
“Baleros’ balls, I can see that! What a mess. Would you allow me to give you a hand? I’ll tell these good people not to worry. Did you hear them sorting out that Drake? Taking our side? I’ve never heard the like, both here or in Baleros!”
“Neither have I. I’ll take the help, thank you.”
Embarrassed, Jelaqua sensed Hiveno withdraw, then give Lens an explanation. When he returned, he began helping her sort out nerve endings—which was mostly a game of ‘pull and see what this one does’.
Normally, you knew what everything did based on its location if you had been in this particular species before more or less, but every body was a bit different, and Jelaqua had thrown everything into disarray. Imagine a neat [Puppetmaster]’s booth with all the strings corresponding to each limb tangled up like a spider’s web, then multiply that by a hundred. That was what they were dealing with.
“You rampaged out of there so fast I was shocked, Sister. What’s your name? Apologies—you must be a [Warrior]. I can’t imagine tearing my body up this quickly.”
“Jelaqua. I—something happened, and I had to go. I wasn’t thinking.”
“Jelaqua? As in Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers? What a coincidence! Or not, given how many of us there are. You’re the Selphid I came to meet! I heard there was one of us around here, and I was hoping for an introduction to The Wandering Inn and Liscor. Though it seems I’ve come at a bad time. I’ve heard of your team, Captain.”
“Former team.”
“Oh, I’m so sorry, of course.”
It didn’t surprise her that she was known. Selphids kept tabs on each other, helped one another out because you were often the only person if you travelled from Baleros. They had very few enclaves…she spoke softly.
“I’m going to get myself back to the inn as soon as I can get this body limping.”
“Are you in need of a spare? Frankly, I could probably run back to my lodgings in Pallass and pick one up, and it might be faster than this.”
“I think I’ve got it. I can move my arm already…”
“Well then, to work.”
After a few minutes, Hiveno breached the silence.
“Is it something I should inform the Watch about? In the inn? I don’t mean to pry, but you looked like you’d seen a ghost.”
“You have no idea. I’m going to warn you now, Hiveno, that I don’t know what will happen when I get back to the inn. It’s 50-50 I’m a blubbering mess or I try to destroy what’s left of it.”
The [Merchant] hesitated as he sorted a bundle of nerves.
“A fair warning. May I ask what they did that was so egregious? I heard you were friends with the inn.”
Jelaqua replied tiredly and bitterly.
“I am. My team died defending it. I have given everything I had except my life for that place, and not for lack of trying.”
“That sounds like a tremendous amount. Did they…deserve it?”
The question struck the Selphid differently. She thought, then realized her mouth was working. So she rasped up at the sky.
“Deserve it? At first, they didn’t. She didn’t. She just gave my team rooms when no one else would, and she was just—kind. Genuinely. We can always tell. You know what it’s like. And that was it. I got mixed up in a bit of their problems, because that’s what we do. I didn’t owe her anything…and then there were more problems.”
Mrsha lost in the dungeon. Face-Eater Moths. Jelaqua rasped.
“They were friendly enough. I’d have taken my team to help them and the cute kid there, like anyone else. But aside from that? No. Then there was a terrible war in the Floodplains after the rains stopped. Almost…around this time. And I didn’t fight because I didn’t owe her that. But she still gave us something. An end to our long and pointless quest. Maybe not directly, but she did. She helped us watch our teammate die. So we owed her for that.”
Garen Redfang, falling in battle, locking blades with the Goblin Lord. Hiveno murmured with his own mouth.
“It doesn’t sound like that would engender much support from me.”
Jelaqua laughed hoarsely.
“No. No…but I’m not saying it right. We searched for years, trying to kill a monster. And he beat the three of us. We didn’t even kill him. He went down swinging against another foe, on a suicide mission. For a second, he was our teammate again. A bastard, a stupid idiot, but we watched him die like that. We owed her, if she had any part in that. And then…”
Jelaqua could sit up, now, and she stared at her legs, seeing muscles move. Speaking.
“She just helped us, and we helped her. We found our fortunes in the dungeon. Thanks to her? I don’t know. We found a teammate here. I fell in love. Got married. It wasn’t all her, but it was through her inn. Her magic door. That was still not enough. Not enough to balance what we gave.”
The Hag was going through the gates. There was no one else to stop her…Jelaqua looked around at Hiveno. And orange tears were running from her eyes.
“Nothing could fucking balance that. Not all her miracles. If you told me the cost, I’d tell you it was too high, if you put everything she did on the other side of the scales. And she knows it. She knew it. But—”
The Selphid put her hands over her eyes as her body returned to her. She pressed the heels of her palms against her eyes.
“—We would have done the same thing, us idiots. The same thing on the side of a road for people we’d never met. She just made it easier. We were the last ones. There used to be so many of us. We should never have taken our last teammate. She was just a kid. I pointed, and we went. It should have been me. I’d do it again. Every time I dream of it, I can’t stop.”
She was sobbing now. Curling up on the rainy streets, surrounded by spectators, as the other Selphid knelt with her, rain pattering off his cloak. Jelaqua raised her head.
“And now, she gave me back something, somehow. That inn did. It’s wrong. I’ll hate them for it forever.”
“Why?”
“Because it’s not a debt you should ever be able to pay. It’s not something I could ever ask for. But they did it. It has…it has to have a cost. Or else everything I’ve done since I set foot on Izril’s shores is meaningless.”
Every moment she put her life on the line and knew the value of it and still risked it all. Every time her team did the hard part because something in them said they had to—
Her anger was gone. Her doubts too, in a way. Jelaqua rose, and suddenly, she was filled with urgency. She had to know what had happened. Only then could she confront him.
She couldn’t even get to her feet. Hiveno had to help her up; Jelaqua’s knees were shaking.
“I think she’s as good as we’re going to get her, Senior Guardsman. We need to get her to another body—she’s fine, but her body is destroyed. I apologize for the scene.”
He called to the Drake, and Jelaqua nodded.
“I’m sorry too. I was having a—I freaked out.”
“Quite alright, Captain. The city owes you more than that.”
Guardsman Lens, who had just been involved in the Zevara case—albeit mostly as a cover for Moass and Hissl—saluted Jelaqua. He recognized her too. Jerci and her squad saluted, and the onlookers started.
“Oh my. It’s you. I thought it might be—Captain, may I help you?”
The pearly-scaled Drake took Jelaqua’s other arm without hesitation. The Selphid hesitated.
“I’m f—thank you. I just need to get to the door.”
“Shivertail Plaza?”
“No, I mean, yes. No…the inn. The Wandering Inn. I need to get there, not to the portal door.”
The Drake woman smiled at Jelaqua as the Selphid shook her head. She must have hit it.
“Not to worry, Captain. My name is Ambiese, incidentally. I’d love to buy you a drink.”
“Me too! Can we help?”
The Human man who’d threatened to punch the Drake offered, and Jelaqua almost imagined they’d carry her. She waved him off, but the gaggle followed her anyways.
“Jerci, clear the streets for us. Let’s just get Captain Ivirith to the inn. Which way is it?”
Lens ordered, and Jerci saluted.
“Sir! I’ll do that! Uh—wait, are we heading that way or this?”
She pointed down the avenue, and Hiveno glanced around.
“…I’ve completely lost my bearings. Captain, which way?”
“Uh, you go out the gates and…no, wait. Where are we?”
“Shield Spider Way, Captain. Where’s the inn?”
Jelaqua stared down the street.
“Right. So we’d go out the city and…straight…no, we go to the hill. It’s on a hill.”
“Where? Outside the city? You ran all the way into Liscor from the inn?”
Lens was impressed; Jelaqua shook her head, but she was getting more confused.
“No! I used the door, I think?”
But the teleportation door—did that lead back to the inn? Jelaqua felt confused. This was so hard, and she knew it wasn’t. She visited the inn all the time. What was going on? Hiveno glanced at Jelaqua, concerned.
“She might have hit herself harder than I thought, Guardsman. Even Selphids can get a kind of concussion. Although the inn is hard to find. I was searching for it all morning.”
“It’s not hard, surely. I was told it was right outside of Liscor.”
Ambiese protested, and Jelaqua shook her head.
“It was. They moved it. It’s…far…?”
Suddenly, she realized she had no idea how to get to the inn. Everyone else was confused as well. The Human man scratched his head.
“Is it in Pallass?”
“Can’t be. It might be up near Celum, though.”
“That’s not right. I swear it was—I’ve seen it! I poked my head in when I went to Esthelm, once. You just—dead gods, did I hit my head? I can’t figure out where it is!”
“Hold on, hold on—let’s all think about this logically. We know the inn can’t be in the Bloodfields. I think. It’s north of that. Almost definitely. If we need to get to it, we probably don’t climb into the High Passes.”
This was insanity. Jelaqua felt that familiar, uncanny sensation on the back of her neck. Lens reached into his belt pouch and yanked out a speaking stone.
“I’ll handle this. Watch Captain Ronss, our mystery Selphid situation is cleared up. We’re taking her to the inn. Ah—could you give us directions from here to the inn?”
He listened. Then nodded.
“He’s getting a map.”
Everyone relaxed except for Jelaqua. After a few seconds, Lens listened. Smiled around.
“Standby.”
A minute passed. He began humming, uncomfortable, as every eye lingered on him. After another minute, Lens fiddled with the speaking stone. After thirty more seconds, he coughed.
“Ah, Watch Captain, have I lost you?”
Then Jelaqua realized the inn was gone, and irony of ironies—the moment she was ready to get back to The Wandering Inn, she couldn’t find it. She began laughing softly in the rain as everyone looked at her.
Then she wondered…did that older Moore laugh too? Was it truly him? She had to know now. Please…
And she wanted to hear Kevin laughing. She began to take one step after another. Not sure what she was hoping to see. Only knowing that she had to see it.
 
——
 
The great trial of locating The Wandering Inn began in the rainy streets of Liscor. A gaggle of Liscorians, new and old, Senior Guardsman Lens, Jerci and a squad of [Guards], Hiveno, Ambiese, and Jelaqua went searching for the inn.
At first, they just tried to retrace Jelaqua’s steps. They made it to Shivertail Plaza, but then were confused how she got here. Had she gone through Pallass, Celum, Esthelm, Riverfarm, or another location via the door to the inn?
So they asked people waiting in line and other pedestrians. No one could figure it out, and some grew increasingly agitated as they realized that they’d forgotten too. In fact, the only person with an inkling of how to get back to the inn was Jelaqua herself.
I know I didn’t run that far. I can’t have with the way I was pushing my body. She was the one who stopped them from heading to Invrisil or Pallass, but Jelaqua was convinced now.
Someone’s done something to hide where the inn is. It’s like a big illusion spell. The Gold-ranker adventurer had faced situations like these before.
“The easiest way would be to connect to the inn itself with a ball of string or something. Or find someone from the inn. They probably know how to fix it. Can we send a [Message]?”
She hoped they were looking for her or at least hadn’t taken her running off as a rejection. Lens nodded, purely bemused. He muttered to himself as he pointed.
“First, someone impersonates me, next I need to find an inn…this way. We’ll go to the Mage’s Guild. I know where that is.”
They were trooping back together, and Miss Ambiese was chatting with the others taking turns helping Jelaqua along. It was quite embarrassing, but the Liscorians seemed to enjoy this.
“I kept being told I’d get my own ‘Solstice Event’ sometime. I reckon this is it. My boss keeps bragging about how he was there when cookies were invented. Now I’ll have a story for him and the lads.”
The burly man was a [Builder] named Nule who had come for the same reason many had. The mother and child were a Gnoll woman named Thirka and Tirra—the girl was being given sweets by Miss Ambiese.
“This nougat’s from my home city. I’m a [Confectioner]. I heard Liscor had a sweet tooth, and here I am! I’d love to visit the inn. I was staying away after the Solstice, and just when I worked my nerve up, the Goblin King happened. But I think I ought to!”
“If we ever get to it, I’ll buy you all drinks. But you don’t have to come, Miss Thirka. It’s wet…”
The Gnollish mother seemed as invested as everyone, and her daughter, Tirra, clung to her paw as if afraid she’d be sent away.
“We are Silverfangs, yes, Captain Ivirith. A bit of rain cannot hurt us. I am more amazed I cannot smell where you went, and Tirra cannot either! What is this ‘Solstice Event’ for?”
“Hiding where the inn is? Makes sense. Plenty of people don’t like it. Maybe you get a prize if you find it?”
“There’s free meals for Selphids today. I was having a delightful steak. I had no idea it did species-appreciation days.”
Hiveno said wistfully, and everyone eyed him. Jerci’s ears perked up.
“It does species-appreciation days? Senior Guardsman Relc never said! Tkrn said sometimes you can get a free snack, but that was only when the inn was a place we had to patrol on duty!”
Lens cursed.
“That bastard. There’s probably a limit on how many get meals free or half-off. I bet he’s keeping it hush-hush on purpose! Just wait until we tell the north Watch House! You know what? I heard Captain Zevara doesn’t visit the inn often despite having a soft spot for that [Innkeeper]. I bet that’s why! She never takes part in lotteries or things where she’d get preferential treatment.”
Jelaqua was struggling to suppress the urge to laugh as hard as she could. She didn’t correct the record; it probably would be good for business, and besides, the inn owed her something for the sheer trauma she’d endured.
But still, finding the inn? The group marching towards the Mage’s Guild realized their struggle might be harder than they thought when they passed by the [Knight].
Right. The [Knight] who was sitting in the street as rain pattered off his helmet. He had a spiked mace on one side, a heater shield on the other, and a crossbow on his back—and a lantern hanging from across one shoulder. His armor was new, if threatening to rust in the rain.
He was also an Antinium. Everyone stopped when they saw him, and Lens called out.
“Er, Sir Knight? Are you okay? I was actually coming to check on reports of you.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. Am I not allowed to sit in the street? I will move, of course, if so.”
The Antinium began to move; he spoke well, but he had an odd accent that made Jelaqua instantly think he wasn’t from…Liscor. Then she realized what it was. He had a mellow voice, but he was a Soldier. What in the world?
She stared along with a few Liscorians.
“Hey, that’s not one of ours…”
Lens had heard it too and glanced at Jerci before replying.
“Sitting isn’t a crime, sir. It’s just—are you waiting for something?”
“I am gathering my strength, Guardsman. I apologize if I have disrupted the peace. This goes against my code, my vow, and my Order.”
“No, nono—not at all!”
The Soldier relaxed and began to sit again.
“Ah, excellent.”
Everyone stared at him, and Ambiese raised a claw.
“Cheerio, good sir, but may I ask why are you sitting there? And your, um, name?”
Some old Liscorians winced and drew back reflexively, but the [Knight] glanced up without issue.
“Forgive me, citizen. I forget my training. I am [Squire] Rotellen, a knight-in-training of the Order of Solstice. I am upon a great quest, and I have stopped due to hunger and exhaustion.”
A quest? Jelaqua spoke up with that familiar feeling.
“What kind of quest do they give [Squires], er, Rotellen? And are you from Liscor?”
The Antinium shook his head.
“I am from the Armored Hive. I am new to Liscor. I did not think I had been put upon a quest at first, but it is surely a great one. I have been tasked, you see, with going to The Wandering Inn to request a door be opened for our keep now that it is mostly finished. I travelled to Liscor, but then lost my way yesterday as I was close to the inn. Thus, I have searched for it for the last twenty-six hours in vain.”
He clenched one fist.
“I was entrusted with this sacred duty by none other than Knight Jewel herself! A more senior member of the Order might have been better.”
Jelaqua blinked as the crowd muttered excitedly.
“Since yesterday?”
“Indeed. I have spent twenty-six hours moving about until my body betrayed me with the desire to sit. Thus, I have rested.”
Rotellen’s stomach made a faint squelching sound, and Ambiese lifted the bag of nougat.
“…Do you have nothing to eat?”
The [Squire] hesitated.
“I had brought provisions precisely calculated for my travel. They ran out yesterday. Which implies to me that I was upon my destination, though I cannot now say where it is. Thus, I have combed every street in the hopes of finding the inn. If that then fails, I shall search the Floodplains, though I may well drown. The Order of Solstice would expect nothing less.”
Jelaqua traded glances with Hiveno, then she smiled at the strange, silly Antinium.
“Well, I’m a friend of the inn, and I have to get back there, so you should come with us, Squire Rotellen.”
And that was how an Antinium [Squire] joined their company, eating the nougat hungrily. They talked as they headed to the Mage’s Guild.
“How does an Antinium Soldier speak, let alone so well?”
“I was given a book and a voice by the Armored Queen before I left. The book was of knightly virtues. Thus, I am aware of many facets of my class. How to kiss a [Princess]’ hand. How to declaim. I, along with many [Squires], have been building and training in our keep. It is finished, at least, for now. Hence the need for the door.”
His voice was softer and higher than the bass of some of the Free Antinium Soldiers with voices. And the [Squire] walked as if the armor was second-nature to him, though he was careful never to let the hanging lantern bang against anything.
“You’re one of those flame-knights, aren’t you? Do you have one?”
Mister Nule asked, and the [Squire] nodded. He glared at the rain balefully.
“I carry the pink flame of Glory, as do so many. But that is an easy flame, and in time, mine may change. I would share it but for this rain. How shall we locate the inn? Slay a Dragon? Climb a tower of hair? Challenge another [Knight] to a duel for the answer?”
“I was going to send a [Message] spell.”
“Ah, this would be the tactical acumen which I have yet to learn. I defer to you, Captain.”
Jelaqua was smiling despite the oddity of the day. This silly chaos she could do forever. It was gentle. It was so much better than Pallass where no one knew her name.
But they never made it to the Mage’s Guild. They were found before that—a shape flashed down the street in the pouring rain, and Jelaqua heard a voice.
“I found her! She’s right here—”
Kevin. He was racing around on a bicycle, and he braked hard as he swept his wet hair back. He dismounted and then hesitated.
“Jelaqua. I—”
Kevin. Seeing him again, Jelaqua realized she’d seen him yesterday, but there had been some kind of concealment Skill on him. As it was, his sandy hair and faintly tanned complexion was familiar. He hesitated, not sure if he should speak softly or come closer. It was Jelaqua who lifted a hand.
“Hey, Kevin. C’mere, you. I’m not going to run away this time. Just…are you real?”
He approached, slowly, as the crowd drew back. Jelaqua stood upright as the others let her go, then took one weak step towards him. She faltered, and he caught her.
“Are you okay, Jelaqua? You look—”
He felt real. She strained all the senses her body had, and she could see him stumble slightly as he caught her weight. Jelaqua gazed up at him, and then her grip tightened on his arms.
“It is you. Good. You kids deserve a second chance. Is…did anyone else…? Moore would have given up his place for anyone. Is Halrac there?”
She saw Kevin’s face crumple up and felt herself slipping again, falling into a sea of emotions and regrets and memories. His voice was husky as he helped her stand.
“It didn’t work…like that, Jelaqua. Halrac came back. Everyone did. He went out like a hero again.”
“Ah.”
So it was even bigger than she’d feared. She saw the desolation in his gaze, the terrible knowledge, and it was familiar to her, the Gold-rank adventurer. Jelaqua pulled Kevin closer to her.
“Was there a price? Was the Goblin King part of it?”
“Oh, yes. Only, I didn’t pay it.”
The Selphid smiled with relief as tears filled her vision.
“Good.”
 
——
 
Kevin took her back to The Wandering Inn. Though of course, his name wasn’t ‘Kevin’. He introduced himself to everyone as ‘Randy’, and for some reason, it worked.
Skill.
He knew how to get back, and he explained it to Jelaqua.
“You’re not on the list, sorry. Lyonette says it’s an oversight. You sort of have to come here, then memorize how to find your way back. Mrsha and everyone on the staff and in the family are immune, but us guests and friends struggle. Anyone else is hopeless. I had this [Spy] follow me around—I think he didn’t even know who I was, just that I’d been to the inn. The moment I went for the door, he turned around and walked into a wall.”
She tried to smile. But as he helped her and led the others into the common room of the inn, her eyes were darting around. Where was he? Where—?
Moore wasn’t in the common room, but the rest of the staff and Lyonette was, and they were arguing loudly.
“I told you it was a bad idea! I told you we should have let her know, then done the introductions! We could have gotten a [Witch] and—”
Nanette Weishart was speaking stridently as she pointed at Lyonette. Lyonette sighed back.
“Not everything needs to involve [Witches], Nanette. It would have always been…oh, there she is. Jelaqua!”
“Hey, Lyonette. I brought everyone here for the species free food day.”
Jelaqua smiled weakly as she waved at the crowd who’d come with her. She saw Lyonette’s face go slack and felt a tiny bit bad. Then Lyonette’s face broke into a smile.
“The species free food day? It’s Selphids, but for anyone who helped you, I’ll gladly offer free food and drinks!”
Lyonette, coin-pinching Lyonette, said that? The group cheered, and one of the Drakes punched his fist into the air.
“Yes, I knew there was a prize! Is there a shirt or something I can get? ‘I Survived a Solstice Event’ or something? A medal?”
The [Princess] laughed as her daughters glanced up. Mrsha and Nanette exchanged a look, then went running.
“We might be able to do something like that. Come in, please, everyone! Have a seat! Guardsmen, thank you. Jelaqua, I am so sorry…”
She approached, and that same guilt was in her eyes. Jelaqua croaked.
“You’re right. It would have always been like this. Where is he? Kevin said there’s no one—I have to see him.”
She would have moved around, but her body was giving up the ghost, and she had to sag into a chair as Kevin groaned. Lyonette glanced at her.
“Oh no, have you injured yourself? You moved out all the bodies that used to be in the basement—we can send someone to your home in Pallass. Ishkr, drat! He went out searching for you—just sit, Jelaqua. I…I would have said something, but I was in the theater. I hid the inn yesterday, so I—”
They had so much to say. Lyonette seemed different. Jelaqua wasn’t sure why—oh, wait. Her aura was so much stronger. But it had weird…cracks in it? The [Princess] appeared completely fine.  That was until she winced as she tried to help Jelaqua into her seat and the Selphid got a good look at her hand.
It was a shade too pale in places, and so was the [Princess]’ face. Like someone had applied a heavy foundation but hadn’t mixed the colors quite right…the [Princess] stepped back, smiling. Was one eye slightly too blue?
“I have a lot to tell you, but later. What matters right now is…explanations.”
Ishkr appeared behind the bar with a ‘pop’, shaking water off his fur. When he saw Jelaqua, he nodded.
“Oh, good. You found her. Everyone’s coming back.”
Lyonette gripped her apron as she nodded to Jelaqua.
“We can continue this in the garden. Everyone here deserves a meal?”
“Yes, or two. I can pay.”
The [Princess] shook her head with a mysterious, even mischievous smile.
“I have so much to tell you, Jelaqua! You missed a lot…”
“Yeah, including the Goblin King. It’s my fault for chickening out.”
The Selphid saw the [Princess] freeze up, then Lyonette reached out a gentle hand.
“No one would dream of asking that of you. Jelaqua, I’m so sorry. We weren’t keeping this from you. It’s just—how could I ever tell—? It was his decision, but I’ve never seen him afraid of anything except this. Seborn doesn’t know yet.”
Jelaqua was searching for words, gagging at the impatience and fear in her chest, but they were saved from having to have this coded conversation by Knight Rotellen.
He had sunk to his knees in the inn, and all four arms were raised to the sky. He cried out.
“Praise the flames! I have arrived! My quest is at an end!”
Then he rose to one knee as Lyonette turned. The Antinium tried to take her hand and kiss it with his mandibles.
“Your Highness, I am Squire Rotellen on a quest, in the name of the Order of Solstice! I beg of thee—may we be granted a [Door of Portals] to the order’s keep? And, if this should serve, I am instructed to ask for thirty seats upon the night’s repast.”
Jelaqua was laughing softly at the expression on Lyonette’s face as the [Princess] tried to tug her hand out of Rotellen’s grip and say ‘yes, of course, what quest?’
Then the door to the common room opened, and a man ducked through, rain pattering off his green cloak. Jelaqua turned, and there he was.
Moore.
No, what had Kevin called him? Lord Moore. And it fit. It explained it. This was not the shy half-Giant she knew, who deferred to everyone, who seemed to shrink to appear less imposing.
This was…a stranger, who walked with his head held high with that sense of internal gravitas that belonged to nobles. He was stronger, more dangerous. More magical, she could tell, with an aura like stone and tree—
Older. There were hints of grey in his beard. He was not her Moore. And nor was she his Jelaqua.
That was why they cut each other, like two pieces of glass so sharp they scored the other just by being in proximity.
The Halfseekers. Though she did not know it yet—they were both former Halfseekers. Their teams disbanded. The last two in Jelaqua and Seborn’s case. The last of all in his.
He halted, eyes fixed on her as she leaned against the table, and she tried to stand. Time to talk…Lyonette was already summoning the [Garden of Sanctuary].
But as these things happened, the two Halfseekers didn’t get the chance to step away. Moore was approaching slowly when someone rose to his feet.
“That’s impossible. A half-Giant? I swore I heard that the last half-Giant residing on Izril was dead.”
Hiveno, the [Merchant] Selphid, blinked at Moore, and he turned, distracted. His voice was deeper than Jelaqua remembered, but it stabbed her when he spoke.
“Ah. You’re referring to…Moore. Moore of the Halfseekers. I am his uncle. Lord Mireden Raithland. He was indeed the last half-Giant. I have come from Terandria to Liscor. Are you the ones who helped Captain Ivirith to reach the inn? I thank you.”
He stretched out a hand, and Hiveno took it.
“Merchant Hiveno. I apologize for my indiscretion, Lord Raithland.”
“Not at all. Few would think to remember the distinction at all. Let alone that the Halfseekers had Izril’s last half-Giant.”
The half-Giant murmured, and Jelaqua tried to push herself up. She opened her mouth—and a voice broke in.
“I hate to object, sir, but as fate would have it, I quite remember! The Halfseekers are a team for whom I hold the greatest esteem, both in Liscor and as a child growing up! If I may…your nephew saved so many lives, and I must thank you and Captain Ivirith properly for what they did. I attended the funeral, of course, but I…I never managed to say anything.”
Miss Ambiese raised a hand, and Moore turned to her. Jelaqua turned as well.
“Thank you, Miss Ambiese. And for standing up for me back there. It’s all we wanted.”
The Drake from Veish peered at Jelaqua’s face and the way the Selphid smiled in that strained way, almost self-deprecatingly, and she fumbled with the menu she’d been given. Then she rubbed at one eye.
“I…but you deserve so much more. Oh dear. Oh my. I think I’m tearing up. This is highly embarrassing.”
Lord Mireden hesitated, but then he came over to offer her a handkerchief embroidered with Liscor’s own sigil. Although it was different, as if someone had hung a bunch of bells from a more elegant city’s towers…
“Yes. Yes, they deserved more. Thank you for believing it, Miss.”
He knelt, and he was still far taller than she was. His sorrow was far older than Jelaqua’s, and his hand light as a feather as he rested it on Ambiese’s shoulder. Jelaqua saw someone slip from her chair.
“I told Miss Satar about it! And I cried all day. This is for you, Captain.”
Tirra, the little Gnoll girl, ran over with something in her paws. She nearly fell on her face until Lord Moore wiggled a finger—instead of faceplanting, the girl stumbled as a piece of stone lifted up, supporting a foot. Jelaqua saw the girl catch herself, stare at the ground which had already melted back into the floorboards, and then offer the Selphid something.
It was one of the Silverfang’s trinkets: a silver fang hanging from a necklace. Jelaqua took it.
“Oh, that’s beautiful. Is this for me?”
“Yes, it’s mine, but Mother says you can have it! Please take it? It’s lucky.”
Of course, the Selphid agreed after glancing at Miss Thirka, who nodded and rose. Then, before she knew it, Nule was walking over, hand outstretched.
“Er, Lord Mireden, sir? I reckon this isn’t much, but I wanted to say thank-you as well. My family was behind those walls, and we heard it was your nephew’s team what held back that thing there. We might all be dead, and I—I think I didn’t really give it the thought it deserved afterwards. But your nephew, that Guildmistress, even the fellows with the hats deserve a statue in the city or something. Just like that [General] in the plaza. Or some kind of reward.”
There were nods of agreement, and the half-Giant thanked Nule and glanced at Jelaqua.
“We have statues, sir. That is, the Halfseekers do. As for a reward…being remembered is enough.”
The [Builder] began to nod, then caught himself and looked the half-Giant in the eyes.
“—That’s not true, begging your pardon, Your Lordship. There should be something more.”
He scuffed one foot, embarrassed at speaking to what he thought was clearly a noble. But when he glanced at Jelaqua, the Selphid realized she was smiling.
Dead gods, it hurt. But those words were a far more beautiful dagger. Lord Moore nodded at Nule silently, and Jelaqua coughed.
“That’s the kind of thing we’ve got to say, Nule. Or else it gets to our heads. We can’t count debts like that. The Halfseekers never have.”
She was watching the half-Giant’s face as he leaned on a staff, a huge, magical artifact. Lord Moore didn’t instantly agree with her. Instead, he stared past Jelaqua.
“Perhaps we—your team should have, Captain Jelaqua. Sometimes, they gave so much without a word. Who remembers all their deeds over the three d—two decades you adventured? Theirs is a legacy worthy of any Named-rank team. But because you never won victories in dungeons, instead against bandits for copper coins…who remembers those adventures?”
His voice was bitter and deep, and no one could answer that. Jelaqua saw Kevin sitting at one table, hesitating, as if wanting to jump in, but someone forestalled him. A young Gnoll woman with brown fur, just watching Jelaqua with hungry, sad eyes.
Mrsha and Nanette working at a table with Apista, peeking at them. Ser Dalimont, tossing someone out the window. A spy who’d gotten too nosy? Someone in the crowd who’d been sharp enough to use her to come to the inn?
There is no privacy here. But they couldn’t just walk away, so Jelaqua spoke to him, this older man.
“I met a woman just this morning who remembers. If we did it for the glory, we’d have all quit long ago. It didn’t change her life, mind you. She did her own thing, and we were just…there. Maybe there are some we saved who remember us. But what more could you want? A memory is more than most get.”
She shrugged, and the half-Giant turned to her, and his brown eyes flashed as he clenched a fist.
“The Halfseekers saved a city’s life. Not just…recently. They would have been forgotten except for the memory being written down. Sometimes, I wish it had been insisted on. Sometimes…”
He hesitated. Met her eyes and gazed away. She hung her head.
“Yeah. But we weren’t that important. Besides…Lord Raithland, what’s the point? The dead can hear no applause. Better to be alive. If I could wish for anything, if I deserved anything from all of our adventures, I’d ask for—I’d wish for—”
Her eyes were welling up with tears again. Then she saw it. It hit her like a [Lightning Bolt] out of the blue as the white Gnoll girl froze at her table. Jelaqua’s mouth opened.
“Oh. That’s why. That’s exactly what I…”
She peered at him wordlessly, and the half-Giant nodded and glanced to the side. Then he hunched in his chair.
“You’re wrong, though, Jelaqua. Be it so petty, but a legacy matters. And I will ensure the Halfseekers have theirs in Liscor. Griffon Hunt too. Not something so simple as a statue. Nor children named after our friends and companions. A legacy. Something to be proud of. The virtues you shared with your team, and…”
He clenched a fist.
“Safety. However long it lasts. That battle we fought, won for a hundred thousand people. Won and kept. No more monsters to come back. What we fought for will remain, and no one will tarnish that legacy. If only we remember it, so be it. We know what we did. That is what I came here to do.”
His words stirred the audience, each in a different way. But Jelaqua just saw, in the older Moore’s eyes, something she understood.
“Ah. You’re the last of your own team of crazy adventurers, aren’t you, Lord Raithland?”
The half-Giant blinked, then smiled. He took a mug from a tray that one of the Goblins was carrying around and lifted it, a small cup in his huge hand.
“In another world, another time, Jelaqua. Yes. I…almost didn’t come, you know. I could have retired. What held me back wasn’t the struggle nor the journey or odds. I had every reason to come, because I am needed. But I have been so long alone, I feared this.”
So he was just like her. The Selphid pushed herself up and swiped a mug from her tray. She knew they were all watching her, and she lifted the mug up.
“Fair, Lord Mireden. But I think you know this: the Halfseekers will never adventure again. Whatever we do, whatever we are, we fought our last battle in Liscor.”
“There was never any doubt.”
He whispered. Then they chinked mugs hard—the ale that looked vaguely like piss slopped to the floor and over their hands. It seemed as though the words hurt some of the listeners, but Jelaqua just breathed easy.
“Not again. I could never do it again. We drew a bloody line in the snow, and when I woke, I was tired of it. Tired of finding another line to draw. I needed…we needed to find something else. Some other way. We were always terrible adventurers, because we couldn’t focus on the glory and treasure and our own skins. That was how I let my team down.”
She met his eyes, waiting for judgement from the only being who could give it. And he—his hand cracked the mug as it tightened around it, and then he reforged the wood in his grip. The half-Giant stared at Jelaqua, then past her.
“Perhaps. Perhaps you did let them down, Jelaqua. But you also found each and every one of them. Lost, untrusted, and gave them a purpose. Yes, maybe, you could have given us better lives and we, all the Halfseekers, could be living now.”
She staggered slightly, and the half-Giant’s eyes focused on her. Then he lifted a finger.
“However, if they were there at any moment when it mattered, when there was one less Halfseeker in the world—Moore, Seborn, Garen, Ukrina, Ulinde, all of them—they would have told you to charge. So whose fault was it?”
The Selphid was shaking, laughing, and crying. She forced the words out.
“What a terrible team we were! Here’s to the Halfseekers, the Half Freaks of Izril—they didn’t know when to quit!”
She raised her mug and drank, and not a single person drank with her. So Lord Mireden Raithland rose to his feet, and his voice boomed across the entire inn, making visitors in the portal room start, as if the hills had developed tongues.
“For the Halfseekers of Izril! For everyone who has ever searched for the meaning that eludes them! For those who shared that burden and fought for their better halves!”
Jelaqua saw the young Gnoll woman leap to her feet, and then she knew it was Mrsha. An older Mrsha who grabbed a mug—and Kevin rose with her along with Mrsha and Nanette, the staff, and the Watch—and they took a drink.
The Selphid tossed her mug down and reached out a hand. Moore caught her arm, and she squeezed with all her might and felt his crushing grip on her arm. One of her bones broke; she didn’t care.
They held each other as if to never let go again.
 
——
 
Of course, they did let go, and the day did not turn into a full party. That wouldn’t have been appropriate. There were quite a number of tears and a few more toasts by impassioned guests, and Lyonette came out with food and drinks for all, on the house.
But Jelaqua and Moore didn’t hear or see any of it.
They walked in a [Garden of Sanctuary], the Drathian one. It was always scenic; pink cherry blossom petals fluttered down around them as they crossed the red bridge over the koi-infested pond, and Jelaqua wondered if the tree got tired of growing and shedding the blossoms.
Lord Moore gazed at the tree as well as he leaned on the bridge. He seemed like he didn’t know what to say, so he cleared his throat and nodded to the tree.
“It’s got to be four thousand years old—at least. I’m amazed it hasn’t overgrown, but whomever made this [Garden of Sanctuary] did it with more skill than Erin or the other builders.”
“Oh? Four thousand? Really?”
The tree didn’t look that old. Sure, it was old, but even trees died. Lord Moore reached up and caught a petal.
“It’s always shedding blossoms. Haven’t you noticed? It’s under a kind of stasis spell so that it doesn’t age. Fed enough to grow and…”
“Dead gods. That sounds like torture. Not that a plant has feelings.”
The half-Giant chuckled softly as he walked across the bridge to rest a hand on the tree’s bark. He closed his eyes.
“Oh, they do. But this one’s calm. Much like a half-Elf. I’d call it snooty, actually. I never could get on with half-Elves, even after I retired. I dated six—all but one kept trying to elevate themselves over the ‘younger’ races in some way. Age was the only thing they had a great advantage in. So that was how they framed the entire world.”
Jelaqua felt a smile stretching across her face. She’d been afraid she’d start blubbering again, and it was close, but those simple words revealed so much. He was more refined. More confident; her Moore had never criticized unless he truly hated someone. But this one?
“You? Dated?”
He half-turned his head, embarrassed as he brushed blossoms out of his hair.
“I know how that must sound, but, well, yes. After I was alone, I was so damned lonely…I took Seborn’s advice and put myself out there. Being Level 50 didn’t hurt. Most of the teams from my world did the same. I think Erin’s death made everyone treasure the time they had left.”
Oh, and they were right into it. Jelaqua swallowed and tried to keep her voice neutral.
“Really? Everyone? G-got any good gossip?”
The half-Giant glanced at her, then pulled out some bread and began to rip it and toss it into the pond. She stared at the gaping koi mouths as he hmmed.
“Well, Pisces. Married three—no, four times. Poor man.”
“Pisces? No, wait, I can see it. Give him a scrub and stop him sniffing and he’d fool someone. Four times, though? Really?”
The half-Giant shrugged.
“He was trying to keep the Horns together after Ksmvr died.”
“Oh.”
He turned guiltily.
“I’m sorry. I don’t mean to—it’s not happened in this world, has it? It won’t if I have anything to do with—”
She touched his arm. It felt like her nerves were tingling despite them being torn and dead.
“Just tell me. You’re not my Moore, and I’m not your Jelaqua.”
The Selphid’s eyes rose.
“—But we’re Halfseekers. We are, aren’t we?”
His lips moved as he whispered.
“Yes. Always and never again.”
Silence until he handed her some bread. She bounced her first piece off a koi fish’s head as she listened. Moore stared ahead.
“I think…I think it fell apart because Pisces couldn’t ever give up on Erin. It wasn’t that he loved her like that. I don’t think—but Yvlon left. And Ceria? Ceria went mad.”
“The circlet?”
“She’s wearing it in this world?”
“Yep.”
Moore raised the handful of bread to throw, then gently tossed it in the water.
“I’ll try to deal with that too, but that’s magic beyond me. I’m not that great a [Mage].”
“Pull the other one.”
“No, I’m not. Truly. I’m a Level 50 [Lord]-[Mage] combo. I studied all the new magic as it came out, but I wasn’t pioneering it. That would be Valeterisa, Eldavin, and so on. You’re right on track in this world, even if it’s different. Ceria as well…it’s no wonder Pisces couldn’t hold it together by himself.”
“I’ve seen Wistram’s magic all over. It’s insane. Levitating cushions, magical carriages, and even Boots of Flying. Are they going to make [Engineers] obsolete? Also, who’d Pisces marry?”
Moore lifted a hand and brushed at his beard.
“Well, that’s an interesting question—the Wistram one. I’ve been comparing the progress in my world to yours, and you’re ahead and behind. Pisces, though, far more fascinating. The first was Revi. They had a kid together.”
“…I can sort of see that, actually.”
“Apparently, so could she. But she retired, and he didn’t. That was probably the best marriage. The second was Princess Jecaina of Jecrass—”
Jelaqua nearly laughed herself off the railing. Lord Moore gave her a somber gaze.
“I’m serious.”
“A [Princess]? That [Princess]? That’s a terrible idea!”
“Yes. It was. It might have worked except that he married her not four months after he and Revi split.”
“Oh! Oh, Pisces!”
Moore was nodding and smiling. Pained, but the topic of Pisces was like a weird balm. He counted on his fingers.
“They held it together for eight months. And after the second divorce, I think it sort of set expectations. Selys was third, and she should have been first.”
“Firestrike me, Selys…that could have worked.”
“Yes. But not then. Neither one walked into that marriage at the right time, as the right people—she had her own relationships that didn’t work. Age and our times…that one was bitter.”
He exhaled, and now it wasn’t fun. Jelaqua listened with a pain for someone who didn’t exist, in a time that never would be. Moore’s voice dropped low, now.
“Then came the marriage where I didn’t show up. I think the only one who went to it was Mrsha.”
“Please tell me I don’t know who it is.”
Jelaqua wanted to laugh again. Then cry…poor lad. He deserved better than that, but Moore was describing something breaking in the future. And his smile faded.
“Falene Skystrall.”
The Selphid leaned over the railing.
“That’s not funny.”
“No one thought it was. I think they rather liked each other in some strange way. But no…most of the stories I could tell you are like that. I’m sorry, it was amusing until I heard myself talking. We come from a broken world. Maybe it was always broken, our future, but it really did seem to get worse after Erin died. We all pushed ourselves to snapping to help her. I had all but given up except that Mrsha had turned eighteen. She was going on one last adventure, and I thought…that was it. Maybe, just maybe—”
Lord Moore turned to Jelaqua, and there were tears in his eyes.
“That’s how it fell apart for a decade, Jelaqua. That’s why I came back. To avert it. I know the secrets of Liscor’s dungeon. I have slain the Mother of Graves. This time, her plans will come to naught.”
He stood before her, and she had nothing to say. If she had been masking her grief in Pallass playing at Maughin’s wife…Jelaqua nodded. Then she whispered the real question.
“So, what do you remember last?”
Not—yesterday or anything trivial like that. He understood. The half-Giant turned, and the reflected flames blazed in his brown eyes. His grief-stricken face turned, and he whispered.
“My city burning. Rhir’s damned [Heroes] pouring up the hill—and everything I thought would last this time vanishing. I stood in the doorway as long as I could, until it cracked and there was nothing left. My entire world a dream. Then I remember laughing like a madman and hoping reality was brighter.”
A fragment of glass, a fake man turned to Jelaqua Ivirith, and she whispered as the snow stung her face. The howling of Draugr and a battle in the distance condensing down to a single point. A decision already made.
“I thought she didn’t belong. The Hag Queen. It wasn’t fair. There was no way to prepare for her, no way to see her coming, let alone the Draugr. And I thought—if we went slow, we might stop them after a few streets. Harry them. And I was counting—counting. Maybe it’d only be a dozen. A few dozen. If she started reanimating them, if they breached the gates fully, maybe thousands. But the city could fight. It should fight. No one should ask it of us. I shouldn’t. Then I remember her laughing and trying to reach her. Just reach her and—”
She blinked, and tears were running down her face.
“—And then I woke up, and for a second, I thought we’d made it. Before I heard Seborn crying.”
Neither one said anything, then.
After a while, they kept moving. The Selphid and half-Giant knew each other, then. Strangers, now, telling each other what was and what might be.
They had always been on the same team.
“So, Wistram.”
“Right, Wistram! Bunch of magical artifacts everywhere. Is that the future or what?”
Lord Moore handed Jelaqua a ring.
“This is the future.”
“This? Whoa! It’s tiny! I could swallow it!”
“Please don’t. Everyone was on their rings so much in my world that I feel so out-of-touch today, not calling up everyone or sending messages. It’s not that magical.”
“Pull the other one.”
“No, really. This kind of magic is everyday; you charge them up at stations because magical gemstones are so expensive. But the big magic? [Flying]? No one can do that cheap. You can buy a [Flying] spell, but it’s still expensive. That’s why I think Wistram Academy is lying.”
Jelaqua’s head tilted, and her ears perked up with some more actionable reality.
“How’s that then? Archmage Eldavin made some actual Boots of Flying. Is it a lower-tier spell? Or some other trick?”
Lord Moore stroked his beard.
“No, I well believe he can make them. However, the question is—how many?”
“Ahh. But people are ordering them.”
“I’m sure he’s having them outbid each other, but I would very much like to know how many such goods he can produce. Archmage Valeterisa stays at this inn—watch her, she’ll change magic forever—and she’s been complaining about making magical items to fulfill a quota.”
“She would complain. She’s too busy humping Relc to do anything.”
The half-Giant chuckled.
“They were never together in my…that’s good. She looks so different. No, I rather think that she’s being press-ganged into making artifacts because no one else can.”
“Ooh. So we’re looking at dozens of Relic-class items appearing, not hundreds or tens of thousands?”
Lord Moore lifted a finger, and now his face grew crafty in a way the old Moore’s had sometimes been. Jelaqua was too tired to cry, so she just smiled. He glanced around.
“Not even dozens, perhaps. My suspicion is that Archmage Eldavin is using a very limited resource to make these Boots of Flying. A levitating cushion? Anyone can do that. It’ll hog far more mana than Wistram is advertising. Too many and a city will go mana-negative—they’re overvaluing their products. But Relic-class items require a substance that isn’t being mined anywhere in the world—yet.”
“Which is?”
She wondered if he’d keep her in the dark, but the half-Giant merely winked at her.
“It’s called ‘seith’, and finding it will revolutionize magic. But it only comes from the deep, deep sea where it condenses. Drowned Folk were the only producers of the stuff in my world—obviously, nations like the Blighted Empire were trying to acquire more, but my bet is that Eldavin needs it, Archmage of Memories or not.”
Jelaqua swore she’d heard that word coming up more than once before, but she couldn’t place her finger on it.
“So Wistram’s crashing all the other markets, including Pallass’ Engineering Guild, with empty promises?”
“Promises they can’t fulfill at scale, certainly. But there is fire under the smoke. And if they continue expanding their dominance…I have a little plan to counter them in Liscor, but anything larger is beyond me. The Mother of Graves is my focus now.”
He grew serious again, and Jelaqua shivered and glanced down.
“Okay. You keep throwing that name out, but I don’t even know…her. I’m ready. Tell me who that is and what you’re doing.”
The half-Giant gazed at her, and now the pain was on his face, and the determination. He murmured.
“Are you sure? This is the tale of how you died, Jelaqua.”
She beamed up at him as she took his arm.
“Well, it’s about time we got to the easy stuff! C’mon, you big lug. How can I help?”
“You’re retired, Jelaqua. And you’re going to stay that way.”
“Oh, right…”
They strolled through the garden as the Selphid sighed. But even when she looked up at him, striding along and listing his plans out, she and he both agreed, silently, as they met each other’s eyes.
Never again.
 
——
 
It was no [Immortal Moment], their stroll in the Drathian garden together, and they did talk until they were both fairly hoarse, then returned to the inn where they were given a nervous welcome.
Jelaqua smiled at Lyonette and gave her a thumbs up. She was ready to explode with emotions—and knowledge. However, as Lord Mireden pointed out while glancing at a glowing ring projecting an image into the air…
“It’s only 2 PM. I truly can’t be drunk yet today. I have work to do. Jelaqua, will you walk with me some more? You could watch me put part of the plan into action.”
Jelaqua glanced up from where she was taking huge gulps of water at the bar. She pointed at the track-lines of yellow on her cheeks from all the crying.
“What? Hell no! I’ve already nearly died of dehydration! I’m going to be blubbering like a seal baby if I walk with you, you gigantic prat. Give me an hour or two to breathe! Then I’ll have more questions. We’ll have a drink tonight or something.”
She was going to go berserk if she kept this up, and the half-Giant bowed to her with a slight smile.
“Fair. We have our own lives, and…I haven’t had the courage to face Seborn.”
“I wouldn’t. Dead gods.”
She leaned against him, then jumped back. They gazed at each other, strangers who hurt each other, but they’d come back, she knew. Like magnets armed with lances. She forced herself back, away.
“You…I was going to murder you for a second. Now I want to know how this happened and thank someone. Possibly punch them.”
Lord Moore lifted a hand.
“Thank them, I think. They’ve paid too high a price already. And their reasons—listen to their reasons.”
Oh, this was going to be sad. Jelaqua cast around.
“I need a pitcher of water or I will croak. And a new body. This one’s tear ducts are clogging.”
“Gross as ever, Captain.”
He tried to hide a smile as he turned his head. Then he was striding from the inn, and Jelaqua collapsed into a seat. Only when someone patted her on the arm did she peek up.
Jelaqua? How are you feeling?
A very worried Mrsha was standing there, nose a bit snotty. She’d been crying too. Jelaqua swept her into her arms.
“I’m going to be fine, Mrsha. It’s just…hah! This inn!”
She buried her face in the girl’s shoulder. Then looked up.
It’s you. You’re the one. It was always the eyes. Mrsha had the expression of children who’d gone to war. She hadn’t had that before, for all she’d lived. Jelaqua held her gently.
“Good job, kid. You stole something back from the tally of Baleros, the ledger of the deeps. Crossed one off the adventurer’s lists. Now you’ve got to tell me how it happened, but properly. Every great deed needs to be told well, got it? Later, okay? We’ve got all the time for a good tale.”
Mrsha’s eyes filled up again, and Jelaqua ruffled her hair.
“I’d make a great parent. Eh, probably not.”
She let Mrsha go and turned. Some of the people who’d helped her here were leaving, but all of them took their time to say goodbye. Thank her again—and the inn’s staff and Lyonette were all giving her this eye.
No wonder Moore ran for it. This is going to be underwater with snot and tears if I stay. So Jelaqua pulled herself up.
“I’m for Pallass. Can, uh, someone help me?”
Well then, nothing would do but Peggy and Mrsha support her, and the lopsided combo got her to the [Door of Portals]. Jelaqua found it funny how no one knew how to get to the inn, even though it was literally right out the door.
Some Skill. I have to ask about Lyonette’s cracks too. Ah, she was getting embroiled in the inn. That was okay, but Jelaqua was conscious she had a life in Pallass. Like she’d said to Moore—the Halfseekers were no more. She could be a friend, but not the last person standing in the inn between the monsters.
Perhaps the inn was ready for the next one. She hoped so. Jelaqua waited in line and realized, once again, she had a delay.
“Only people exiting through the door! We’re closed for an hour! Yeah, yeah, cry me a river!”
Liska was shouting at the people waiting outside. She was speaking with Lyonette and, of all people, Knight Rotellen. Why was it closing?
Oh, right. The new door. Liska rubbed her paws together.
“Good thing I actually know where this new anchor has to be. Hey presto! Abracadabra! New…door!”
She waved her paws around, then pointed at the [Door of Portals]. Much to the chagrin of everyone watching, that worked. Liska swung the door open and then hopped out.
“Ooh, nice and sunshiney. Is this right up against the High Passes? Yep, I can even see the other pass! Nice fort. Very block-like.”
She admired the Order of Solstice’s keep, and Lyonette peered outside.
“This is near Orefell. More mining. We’re happy to offer transport to the Knights of Solstice, of course, Squire Rotellen! And I do apologize about the confusion—I’d love to speak to Normen now, if he’s here?”
The Squire was raising all four arms skywards.
“No more damned rain! Praise the flames! The Grandmaster may be here, Princess Lyonette, or on a crusade against the forces of evil.”
“Oh my, which ones?”
Jelaqua limped onto the grass to see the new place since she wasn’t that strapped for time. She saw the Order of Solstice’s keep was indeed a rather ugly block of stones, but it was well under construction, and there were distant figures in armor training in cleared ground. They were next to a road, and…she squinted.
“Are those Eater Goats? Fuck, someone get a weapon!”
She pointed, and Mrsha’s eyes widened in alarm. Peggy began to drag them back into the inn, but Rotellen just nodded.
“Ah, yes. Our new beasts of war. They come from the village that trains Eater Goats. I would love to show you all around the keep; especially you, Captain Jelaqua.”
The Selphid opened her mouth and hesitated. After all this?
But ‘Eater Goat pets’—you just had to.
 
——
 
It was actually the subject of an argument when the group approached. Knight Ama was arguing with none other than Normen himself.
“They were chewing on Sillias! And one ate my Gargoyle skeleton’s leg! We don’t need them!”
A very defensive Antinium wearing armor was petting a goat in his hands.
“But they are adorable, vicious pets that may be sacrificed in battle, Knight Ama!”
“This is insane, even for us! And I’m the one animating Gargoyle skeletons as footsoldiers! Normen, if one more of them tries to nibble my robes, I’m going to—oh hey, look, the inn’s here.”
Ama turned, and Grandmaster Normen smiled as he saw everyone.
“Squire Rotellen, we were going to search for you! But no one could remember where the inn was. I assume this is something new and normal?”
He glanced at Lyonette, and she took a breath.
“Yes, Normen. It’s on purpose. I, ah—”
He lifted a hand.
“Say no more. Just let us know how we can get there, and we’ll adapt. It’s a good measure.”
It was a reminder that Normen was a veteran of the inn’s staff. He just welcomed everyone into the Order of Solstice’s keep.
“I’d offer you refreshments, but I think yours are far better. Everything is under construction. The armory is a mess, and we’d finish building it—the Antinium [Squires] are excellent, except that we’re too busy—”
There was a hornblast that made everyone jump, and Normen winced. None other than Jewel came racing around the corner with Durene and Vess.
“Bandits! They’re around Reizmelt! I need twenty [Squires] in ten minutes! Let’s get the bastards! Oh hey, Lyonette. The inn’s not facing another Goblin King? Good! Charge!”
She ran out of the unfinished war room, and Jelaqua saw twenty of the practicing [Knights] turn, then charge after Jewel, Durene, and Vess towards a wagon. They seemed ready to race into the distance except for the wagon which rolled to a stop.
The Heavy Roller, Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, was burning her orange flame, and the [Knights] piled into her wagon—as many could fit. The rest ran to the stables, and they practically stormed down the road.
“Oh my. You’re rather…active, Normen. Should you be fighting [Bandits] already?”
Lyonette sounded dismayed, but Normen just grinned, and Jelaqua was entirely approving.
“They’ve got to prove they’re worth all the support, Lyonette. You can’t just take your time building things and go out when you’re ready. This is messy and good for these fellows. Some [Knights] you can catch with their pants down because they think you signal when it’s time to fight and they have all day to breakfast and stretch. Not this lot.”
Normen nodded gratefully at her.
“That’s right. I look at it like a street fight. Any moment, anywhere. Though I’d love if you had input on how we’re organizing. It is still messy, Captain…”
Jelaqua didn’t mind. She let Normen show her around and made a few comments about how she’d done things in Baleros and best practices—and the entire while, she was remembering Moore.
Later. Later. Mrsha was clinging to her, and Lyonette left after a moment. She claimed to be tired—Jelaqua eyed Peggy.
“Is she hurt? Give it to me straight, Peggy.”
The Hobgoblin sucked on her teeth.
“Yah, she hurt bad. That a secret, and she did it to herself. But good! We all super proud of her.”
She nodded, and Mrsha did too. Jelaqua shook her head ruefully as Normen gave them a curious look. He coughed.
“I can see I have a lot to catch up on. We’re taking some of the [Squires] to the inn for food. More now that Jewel’s run off. I’d go with her, but one of the [Knights] has to be here at all times. Where was I? Armory, right…anti-thief measures are very important. This is the only finished part of the keep. I wasn’t sure, but it makes sense in hindsight. This is what we need.”
The only part of the keep that was fully enclosed, and had been built with the most care, was the polished marble flooring and rather grand room with a long carpet beyond two double doors.
Ostentatious—Jelaqua thought it’d be some kind of meeting room, but when the doors opened, she just sighed.
“Of course. You’re really her [Knights] after all, aren’t you?”
The little Gnoll girl, Hobgoblin, and Selphid saw the room beyond had no window. No natural light. But it was filled with flames, which would have been a considerable problem given the smoke, except they were all magical flames, burning not on regular fuel but pools of bright stone. Magicore.
Each one stood on a brazier of its own with room for more along the alcoves on the walls. And the alcoves were likewise bare and empty.
All except for one.
The [Knight] who stood in stone held a lantern up and had a greatsword on one shoulder. Embraim, the first Antinium Knight of Solstice, stood before the brazier with a single word etched onto it. The pink flames roared as Jelaqua’s eyes were consumed by them.
Glory.
A [Bowman] stood before the blue flames, his lips a line of determination, as weighty as the blue flames which burned there.
Halrac Everam. Again, she was struck, and the blue flames roared with sadness, depression, the weight of that one man.
She turned her head and saw, in the center of the room, a Gnollish [Knight] standing like a suit of armor, clasping a sword between both paws. Brunkr…and Herove’s image was carved into a statue kneeling against the far wall. Zanze, the [Driver], sat next to him, torch raised in one hand.
Smiling. Normen glanced at the man before he faced the others.
“This is where we keep the fire. Not that we cannot generate it ourselves, but the [Squires] need it. They come in here almost daily. It’s a kind of ritual. I think it will be good for us. It should be humbling.”
Normen stood before the green flame of honor and gazed into the brazier. The flames rose higher as he passed a hand over them, and they danced between his fingers.
Peggy was wondering, eyes aglow as she gazed between flames. From grey mercy to Durene’s red of kindness to other flames like Antherr’s combination hazel fire that burned with determination.
Jelaqua saw both weapon and meaning in this room. And she imagined the [Knights] preparing for battle, dipping their lanterns in a flame and bearing it forth.
Someday, this will be a Knight Order as famous as the Order of Seasons. If they survive. The Selphid didn’t say that out loud, and Normen coughed and turned.
“I needn’t tell you all about the flames. Or the [Emberbearer] who started it all.”
He ruffled Mrsha’s hair, and she swatted at him.
Stop that! I’m just a survivor. You’re way cooler than I ever was.
He gazed down at Mrsha, then at Jelaqua. Normen knew what she’d just been told about, and he nodded sympathetically.
“Tonight, we shall talk, if it is appropriate. I won’t take up your time. All of you are welcome to visit the keep; especially you, Captain Ivirith, if you wished to impart some wisdom.”
“I’ll look in my boots for it.”
Instead of taking offense, Normen just grinned. But he halted them before they left this special room of fire.
“Before you go, may I offer you a gift? It is again—traditional for as long as we’ve done it, all of four weeks. That’s how we got the Eater Goats, actually. There’s a village near here that gifted them to us. Like attack dogs, but…they’re good for corpse disposal, I guess.”
He wasn’t sold on the Eater Goats, but he walked over and found something. Lanterns. The Order of Solstice had tons of them—some carved out of wood, others burnished metal and glass. He handed each of them the cheap, wooden ones. Then nodded at the braziers.
“If you’d like—take one. All except the black flames. Those are off-limits to guests.”
His three guests regarded each other.
“What, the fire? You just giving this away?”
Peggy was incredulous. Normen smiled. He had a twinkle in his eyes, and he replied in that accent from the streets.
“Free’s free. A fellow walks away with anything in his pockets, and the flames are magical, but cheap, as it were. All they need is fuel to burn. It’s a fancy gift that impresses everyone from Couriers to nobles and costs us not a copper.”
“You penny-pinching bastard. You’re Lyonette’s disciple too.”
Jelaqua laughed. Normen winked as Mrsha puffed up with outrage. Give away Erin’s flames?
But it wasn’t the [Innkeeper]’s choice. Normen forestalled Mrsha’s outrage with a hand.
“I think, soon, we will hold flames that even Erin does not know, Mrsha. Those will be ours. Besides…most cannot keep the flames alive. They burn for a day, a week, even a month. No more. I believe, though, you might keep them alive as long as you want.”
He was eying Jelaqua, now, and the Selphid didn’t understand. She swept her eyes around the room as Mrsha took a lantern, then decided she wanted some of Antherr’s flame. Peggy already was scooping up some blue flames.
“What? Sometimes you want to be sad. Ooh, nice and heavy.”
“Which should I pick?”
Normen shrugged.
“Go to what calls to you. The flame will pick you.”
He paused, then leaned over to Mrsha.
“It really does sound better when I talk like that. Very impressive. Is there another movie in that series? Jewel wants to watch the second one.”
Oh, buddy, there are a bunch. I’ll cue them up for you if Jewel gets back by tonight.
Jelaqua ignored them as she walked between the braziers. She felt each flame washing over her, emphasizing the idea in her chest. When she stood before mercy, she truly did feel it in her—invigorating her capacity to feel mercy, and perhaps, the mercy she might not deserve.
If you could not understand it, if you had little of it, the flames shrank. Depression grew as Jelaqua walked past it, but she didn’t want that. She had enough, thanks. She was walking back to Normen to say she couldn’t choose when one of the flames shot from the brazier until it touched the ceiling.
Pink flames roared up, and Normen shielded his face as Peggy and Mrsha flinched. Jelaqua spun.
The pink flames rose until they were like a pillar of glorious fire, burning before her eyes. Jelaqua gaped at it.
“I think you’ve found the right flame, Jelaqua.”
“Me? But I haven’t done anything glorious at all recently!”
Jelaqua protested loudly as Normen took a better lantern from the wall. The [Knight] ignored her as he filled the lantern from the brazier.
“I know better than to argue with fire. Besides, Captain. What is time? Look.”
The flames reacted to Jelaqua’s touch. When she took the lantern tentatively, the fire attached to the candles roared, and it became a blazing, pink conflagration contained within the glass. It was so bright Mrsha shielded her eyes, and her mouth was open.
“I—does it know if I deserve this? Or is it just what I believe?”
Jelaqua gazed at the lantern, and she wondered if it was reacting to what was in her heart. The Halfseekers as they charged the Hag Queen. But also every teammate she’d ever had seemed reflected in that fire.
“I don’t know. Perhaps it’s your own sense of it. But I like to imagine you can’t trick the flames with mere belief. Do you think it suits you, Jelaqua?”
The Selphid didn’t reply. She gazed into the roaring flames, and the Gold-rank Captain peered around. She lifted the lantern up and turned her head.
Garen, Ulinde, her Moore, Keilam…they were reflected in the Selphid’s eyes, shining with pink fire. Without a word, Jelaqua holstered the lantern at her side. She regarded Normen.
“If it’s just what I believe, I could burn down all of Baleros. But what’s my opinion worth, eh?”
She grinned, and behind her, glory howled skywards like a beacon. Mrsha and Normen exchanged a gaze, and then the girl handed him a card.
You should really cut some holes in the ceiling in case it does that again.
Normen eyed the scorched stones.
“Yep. Back to construction work. I need to hire Hexel.”
 
——
 
The flames of glory were still burning with Jelaqua when she returned to Pallass to get a new body. Ishkr helped her there, then vanished, and she changed bodies and then sat for a while in her dark home, staring at the flames.
Soon, she’d go and cry some more, then talk to Maughin, and they were definitely snuggling tonight to share their feelings.
But for a moment, she just sat with the lantern in her hands. It wouldn’t stop blazing.
“So why not? I deserve this, don’t I? Eh, fuck, is that from another of Mrsha’s movies as well? Parent’s tits, I’m doing it.”
Jelaqua slapped her knees and got up. She strode around, cursing and searching for the right receptacle, then sighed and went jogging into Pallass with a bag of gold. When you had enough and a Walled City, you found what you needed.
That was how the Selphid spent her evening. When she grabbed Maughin and towed him to The Wandering Inn for supper, his mother, Vhiren, missed seeing her son. Which was naturally very rude of Jelaqua as she’d been planning on a dinner with Maughin! He’d left a note via Linteca saying something had come up!
She came up to find Jelaqua, assuming they were in their home, and saw a bunch of Jelaqua and Maughin’s neighbors and passersby forming a crowd around the home. When the Dullahan [Baker] approached, she too halted.
Jelaqua Ivirith hadn’t done much in the way of home decorations. Partly because she didn’t really want the critiques from Dullahans who’d feel she was interfering with the traditional elements of Maughin’s home, but mainly because she didn’t care.
Her first and only additions to their home were a pair of large stone plinths that the Selphid had dragged up here herself. Both had big, metal basins in the center, and they sat next to the stone doorway.
Oh—and they were filled with pink flames. The fire of glory had no fuel. But it still blazed, illuminating the home with magical light. They’d burn until Jelaqua’s own vision of the meaning behind the fire faded.
So, eternal fire. It was a nice touch, Jelaqua felt. It really held the home together. But she wasn’t there to stare at the home.
She was in The Wandering Inn, tickling Mrsha despite the girl trying to claim she was too adult for tickle-fights, until the giggling began and Mrsha fought back. And Kevin was under her other arm as she gave him the noogie of two lifetimes.
The Selphid peered up as the doors opened and a giant of a man ducked in. Well, half-Giant. She raised a hand.
“Over here, you big slowpoke!”

Interlude - Halfseekers (Pt. 3) (2025-09-12)

He had so much to do and so little time. So he didn’t stop, even to lean on an old friend’s shoulder and weep. The tears would undo them both, like a crack in a mountain that a river tore through. And he was no great mountain.
Not yet, not ever in likeliness. But he was all Liscor had, so the half-Giant walked.
 
——
 
It had always been like this, you see. Whenever he ducked to enter a room, heads turned. He was never unnoticed; even after weeks, the young Gnoll woman lounging on her couch jumped when she saw him.
“Oh, hey. It’s you again.”
Liska was taking her ease, idly sending people through the door, but she sped up when she saw Lord Moore in line. The half-Giant smiled faintly. He often smiled. In the past, he’d hunched over and even picked flowers to wear.
Anything to make the small people feel less nervous. Because when they were nervous, they got violent. As if his being larger than them alone was a threat.
It was enough to drive you to madness. To hate them. But you had to also love them and their silly little ways. Silly, in that they did all the things that he did. They loved, laughed, and had secrets and ambitions—but whenever they saw him, they seemed to think he was somehow grander, more dangerous, more important than they were. Just because he was tall.
Liska was sending people through the doors faster now, but they lingered, turning to stare up at him. Lord Moore found this, too, funny. He was merely ten feet tall. True, taller than even a Minotaur might be, horns and all, taller than Centaurs, but quite, quite short for a half-Giant. Still, they stared, and children pointed as their parents hurried them back, as if he might fall on them.
It was true, if Moore fell and hit someone, it would hurt them more than he. But the danger was exaggerated. Strong men tried to puff out their chests around him. Warriors checked their blades, then pretended not to. [Mages] were the worst; they tried to act as if he were natural and they were unimpressed.
To walk amongst smallfolk was to always be an outsider, to ever be noticed. It was hard. A younger man, a younger Moore had been more self-conscious, more embarrassed, more alone. The Halfseekers had given him a family.
The [Lord] of future days, who called himself Mireden Raithland, the Moore of a world where Erin Solstice had never woken up, ten long years into the future—he gazed around, and everything here hurt him. It was all so…innocent. For all they had endured, this city had never fallen. The inn still lived.
He had sworn the moment he turned around and ran back towards that door in the [Palace of Fates] that he would keep his future from ever becoming reality. But he had…no…time.
So much to do, but he did not shove ahead in line and took the moment to speak to Liska.
“Hey, Lord M—Raithland. Uh, sorry about the delay. How’s it, uh—I always wanted to know, is being tall really inconvenient?”
His lips cracked into a real grin as she blinked up at him. He had never really known the Liska of his world well. This one was higher-level, and her banal questions were funny, because she asked the ones everyone did. He replied in a low voice that could boom over anyone else’s.
“A funny question, Liska. I once met a group of Fraerlings in Baleros.”
Her eyes widened. The people in line turned to him, fascinated by a species they thought never to meet. If any of them wanted, they could have made the journey, and it was far easier with Paeth. But so many said, ‘that shall never happen to me.’
If they wanted to, they could have an adventure. They dreamed of it, wrote it in their books, made great boasts. Few realized they could if they dared it. Fewer still had the courage.
What a waste, Moore would have said as a younger man. In his forties, now, he thought it made sense. If you were happy, why make the journey into the unknown? If you never saw monsters and wonders with your own eyes, well, had you lived a life any worse than his? Moore had slain horrors and held Relics of the old world in his hands.
He had no children of his own. He had never married in his other world. You could place his deeds and the city he had helped rebuild on a scale with a father and his son, and who could say which weighed more?
So—the half-Giant smiled down at Liska.
“The Fraerlings I met asked me the same question. What is it like being so tall? I told them that it was surely special. I must be the most unique of people for I am so much taller, just as they are extraordinary and their lives so much harder for being so small.”
He paused.
“We laughed upon it for hours.”
Liska was slightly open-mouthed as she gazed up at him. She didn’t realize he had finished until she saw him ducking towards the [Door of Portals]. The half-Giant felt rainwater touch his skin. He shielded his face with one hand, then straightened.
A [Guardswoman] standing in front of the [Door of Portals] backed up, the Drake’s mouth open as the half-Giant emerged from the door to Liscor. The people in line backed up a step, and again, Lord Moore grinned.
He stood in his city, in Shivertail Plaza, and gazed around, breathing in the wet odors of the spring rains. To him, it was so familiar though this city seemed too poor, too dingy and small compared to the one he remembered. His heart still wept for the citizens, so few of whom had escaped into the [Palace of Fates].
This time, I will build it better. Rest easy, Moore of the Halfseekers. This is my task, and I am readier for it than you could ever be. 
He was Mireden Raithland now, he reminded himself. Not Moore. He bore only his memories and knowledge from the future. The other Moore, the one who had lived and died on Liscor’s grounds, was an old stranger to him. He might not approve of all that Lord Raithland did. The half-Giant wished that version of him who had left for another world all the love and life he deserved.
This was no task for young men. He had a silent and secret war to wage against the Mother of Graves.
He had a city to protect, to lead, and to do that, he would have to play the powergames he’d learned over the course of a decade.
Most of all…he wished to keep that legacy of the Halfseekers and to put a finger on the tiller of the events that would occur in this world, and that was not an easy nor light thing to do. It was a thorny garden he would have to water with gold, blood, sweat, and tears. Even he had no idea which flowers would bloom from them, but he could prune what he didn’t like.
So. The half-Giant set about his first task of the day. Not stealthily; eyes followed him as he walked out of the plaza. He could never be stealthy, so he did the opposite. He spun his staff, and when it struck the cobblestones, people walking ahead of him glanced up for the thunder in the skies.
 
——
 
Liscor’s elections were ongoing, a fact that concerned few in The Wandering Inn. Given what they had endured, it was no surprise to Lord Moore. The inn was rapidly becoming an independent force; the taxes incident was just further proof of this. They could let Liscor be, but he cared about these elections greatly.
It was his goal to win a seat on the Council. The problem was the contest for Liscor’s seats had been underway for months when he had appeared. He was a nobody, without support or backing. Also, technically, he wasn’t even a Liscorian citizen. He had no district to run in.
But if he wanted to move Liscor, he had to be on the Council. So the half-Giant had made several steps. First, he had borrowed money from Lyonette to buy a home in the 3rd District of Liscor. Citizenship was quite easy given the current Council’s attitude towards immigration. He was then in a runoff with anyone in his district, which would be accorded three new seats in the Council.
Technically, that was too low if Lord Moore’s rough count of the population in the new area of Liscor was correct. But the Drakes and Gnolls of the old city did not want to cede more of their seats to the new Human-majority areas in 3rd District. Even the old Council was biased, though he rather suspected he might like them more than the new one if the votes went ill.
It didn’t matter. He didn’t have the political capital to move any elections for candidates he favored. Getting a seat was hard enough.
Residency established—there was already some understanding of his presence in Liscor. People had seen him blocking spells when the Goblin King had been rampaging. And the rumor of ‘Moore’s uncle’ also gave him some credence as a [Lord]—a class he did possess.
Lord Moore was a [Green Lord of the Cured City]. His level, well…he’d thought about disclosing it. It might win him the Council seat on the merits of that alone, but he’d rather lay low in that sense.
Too many questions arose when people realized what level he was. In this, or his world, he was a dangerous force, but again, unsupported by a city’s might. So! The half-Giant’s task of the day was simple.
Establish his credibility and, in simpler terms still, attract attention. For a half-Giant?
It was so easy. He could do it even walking.
Lord Moore’s staff was a piece of Oteslia’s great tree. A branch had fallen to earth when, in his world, its Dragon rebelled and fled. He had paid a handsome sum for a carving of it; it was a broad staff, even for his hand, crowned with a huge emerald from Salazsar’s mines.
Not the finest Relic-class item ever to exist, but powerful and, most importantly, sturdy. It was wider than the legs of some Humans. As Lord Moore walked, he casually began to twirl it in the rain.
He had no fear of hitting anyone; even wagon drivers tried to avoid him before the huge staff began to spin. It whirled through the air, faster than you could believe, spraying water around as he rotated it one-handed.
Moore transferred the staff to his other hand as a vendor at their stall ducked, fearing the staff might slip from his grip. He saw a Gnoll boy gazing at him, mouth open, and winked one eye.
Thum.
When the butt of the staff struck the ground, it sounded like thunder. People around the half-Giant jumped, and he struck the ground twice more.
Thum-thum!
Then he whirled it around overhead before his right hand caught it again. The simple whirling pattern was so easy to do as he walked; he could have done it for hours. Lord Moore debated throwing the staff up, but suspected he would be asked to stop if he did that.
These were not the capabilities of old Moore, incidentally. In magic and combat, Lord Mireden was far ahead of the Gold-rank adventurer.
And it worked. As was the way of things, it was children who first paid attention to the thrumming in their shoes or saw the figure moving through the crowd and tugged at their parents’ hands to see. The busy men and women saw the spinning staff and first moved back out of ‘danger’, then hesitated.
They had jobs, lives to lead. This emergency or that event. Did they have time for…?
Then they looked twice and remembered something they’d been told.
The last half-Giant of Izril was dead. Then who was this? They felt their knees shaking and saw the bearded head turn as he walked with robes that rustled like the whisper of old forests. His gaze passed over adults who remembered reading stories as children, books about Giants.
So, shoppers stepped out of line. [Shopkeepers] locked up for a second. Parents and children followed, pointing, and a procession began. Like people going to a festival. Hurrying, steps tripping over each other to keep up, as if they had to follow.
In case they missed seeing something that never would be again. The last sight of their lifetime, and the world’s. He walked so proudly, as if he knew it all. And he nodded at them as they halted, unsure if they were just bothering this stranger. But his smile said, silently:
Yes. Follow me. I do not mind. I know who I am.
So, they did.
 
——
 
The half-Giant strode across the main street of Liscor, people parting around him, until he reached his destination. Surveyed it in a moment and nodded. He was conscious of the crowds following him, and also unbothered at the same time. They would always be there. Like background noise. He happened to need witnesses, now and later, so it was doubly fine. But his words were only to himself.
“Yes. This will do.”
His destination was the northern gates of Liscor. Lord Moore swept his eyes over the little altar that Jelaqua had found, closed them, breathed in and out, and then did something odd, if anyone was watching. And everyone was watching out of the corner of their eyes.
He planted his staff in the ground where it stood straight, without wavering, and then clapped his hands together. He bowed his head, briefly, then picked up his staff and turned around. He began marching back the way he’d come. As if he’d confirmed…something.
Odd. Baffling. Perhaps he was paying respects to the shrine for his nephew? But he hadn’t even approached it. Again, if you were watching, he was an enigma, this half-Giant. Lord Moore felt vaguely sorry if you were lurking in an alleyway, rain dripping onto your raincoat like, say, a certain Watch Captain and two other [Guards].
He knew he’d gotten on Watch Captain Zevara’s list after his first encounter with her in Invrisil. She was an unknown quantity to him; she’d died before he’d become enmeshed in Liscor, and he knew Embria far better. The Watch following him wasn’t a problem, anyways. Moore strode back the way he’d come at a pace that would have them running to keep up.
He only halted once when he heard the familiar sounds of a commotion. The half-Giant turned his head as he passed a side street, then went down it.
In a city, there was always daily strife of some kind. In this case, a crowd of dozens, people hurrying out of the way, calls for the Watch, to stop—people hurrying children back or watching—the half-Giant saw the cause since he could easily gaze over the heads of everyone else.
A fight. A Drake and a Human man going bare-knuckle in the rain. One had a bloody mouth, and the other’s shirt was ripped off as well as his raincloak; he had two bruises on his scales. They were grappling with each other, cursing and slipping on the cobblestone street, when Lord Moore walked through the crowd.
Without slowing, he let go of his quarterstaff, grabbed both men, and pulled them apart. So gently that they were still throwing punches and kicks when they glanced up and froze.
So did the crowd. One of the fighters gasped.
“Who the—let go of me! Who the hell are you?”
“This your backup, Human?”
The Drake sneered, but he took a step back, searching around for his buddies. They all gazed up at Moore with that sudden reassessment of men wondering if they wanted to fight someone four feet taller than they were, counting their numbers.
“Excuse me, gentlemen. It seems too wet for a brawl on the streets. May I ask what started this?”
Lord Moore’s voice was pleasant. And because it was, instantly, both fighters took umbrage.
“None of your business! Hands off! Who are you to interfere?”
The Drake slashed at Moore’s hand as he let go. The Human man made a beckoning gesture.
“That’s right. You want some, you can get in line!”
The glance he gave Moore suggested that if the half-Giant did get in line, he’d quickly get out of it. But it sounded good, and their dander was up. Lord Moore raised his brows.
He could have said he was technically Junior Guardsman Raithland. Or claimed, rightly, that he was a [Lord]. Or a former adventurer.
Instead, the half-Giant smiled around at the crowd.
“A busybody. What’s this over? Something important?”
Neither man really wanted to say. They were eying each other, but clearly wondering if Moore was going to pick them up like children again, which would be embarrassing. They edged back.
“Just stay out of it…whoever you are!”
The Drake snapped. To his great surprise, Lord Moore nodded. He picked up his staff and took one step backwards to give them space.
“Very well. If all parties agree, then I will stand here as witness. The first man to not get up is defeated. No blades, no others in the ring, no magic. So, fight well.”
He struck the ground with his staff and left it standing there, then folded his arms in the crowd as every eye turned to the two brawlers. And they…hesitated. The Human raised a fist, looked around, and the Drake half-heartedly brought his fists up.
They suddenly grew conscious of the crowd of nearly a hundred people, swelling as more came to see what was going on. The two circled, and after a moment, Moore made an encouraging motion.
“Well? What’s the matter?”
One of them had just been about to go for a kick to the balls. Moore’s comment drained the momentum out of the two fighters, and one of them glared at him.
“We’re all waiting.”
The half-Giant smiled at him, and the Drake snapped back.
“You interrupted us! How the hell are we supposed to fight with—?”
He lamely gestured around at the onlookers, who were murmuring, eying his form, even placing a few tentative bets—the things crowds did. Only, without his blood running hot, the Drake was suddenly awkward. Self-conscious.
Like that dream many people had about showing up naked to a party. Neither man was a [Fistfighter] or used to this much attention. The Human clearly felt different and spat on the ground.
“I’m not getting in trouble with the Watch in front of everyone. I’ll settle this with you later. You’d best not see me on the streets!”
He jabbed a finger at the Drake, and some of the man’s buddies jeered. It was a good way to salvage the situation. Moore didn’t let them get away with it. He loomed over the two fighters as they tried to retreat from the ring.
“No fight in the two of you? Truly? And here I thought it was important. For if it was, you two would fight even in the center of a wake. It surely had to have been. Important enough to endanger bystanders and children and interfere with everyone’s day. Come now, tell us. What was so pressing?”
His smile invited the two to tell the class what was wrong. Then the Drake and Human were glancing at each other, and cheeks reddened.
“I think one of them walked into the other. Then one called the other a name.”
An annoyed [Shopkeeper] volunteered. Someone else in the crowd corroborated this, and a few jeers rose. The two fighters began to protest as Lord Moore folded his arms.
“Ah, a terrible offense. There is no use talking it out. Right, back at it, you two.”
That was enough. As faint laughter arose, the Drake strode back to his buddies, shoving at them as some of them laughed at him as well. The Human man tried to slink back into the crowd. Moore smiled as someone blew a whistle.
“Alright, break it up!”
A [Guard] was coming to break the brawl up—to the officer’s surprise, the crowd was already dispersing. He stared around, then at Moore as if the half-Giant was the culprit.
“What’s all this then? You, sir, what are you doing?”
Some things never changed. Lord Moore turned with great patience to explain his part in this, but someone interrupted.
“I have eyes on it, yes, Guardsman. This half-Giant wasn’t part of the fight.”
One of his shadows detached themselves from an alleyway and strode over. The [Guardsman] turned, then saluted.
“Watch Captain! Um, I—right! Sorry, I didn’t realize you were here!”
The Watch Captain of 3rd District gave Moore a sideways glance as she nodded to him. There went the [Guard], and Lord Moore glanced around. He was about to keep walking when someone waved a claw at him.
“Excuse me, Mister half-Giant?”
A girl holding an Antinium doll, Human, was standing with her parents. She stared up at Moore and backed up when he knelt, but he smiled.
“Yes, young one?”
“I have a question! May I ask a question?”
“Of course.”
The girl’s parents watched as she piped up.
“Dad says you’re a half-Giant. But if you are, then isn’t that wrong? Everyone was saying the last half-Giant of Izril was dead. So what are you?”
His father opened his mouth, filled with chagrin, and Moore’s heart hurt as he listened to the girl’s plain question. He saw Beilmark’s ears perk up as he chose his words carefully.
“It’s true. The last half-Giant of Izril did die. Moore of Raithland. I am merely his uncle. I wasn’t on Izril when he fell. So yes, it was true at the time. Once more, I am the last half-Giant. Perhaps the last you will ever know on Izril’s shores.”
Everyone in earshot went silent. Lord Moore stood and looked around.
“I am Lord Mireden Raithland. I have made Liscor my home to honor my nephew’s sacrifice. If you see me, treat me as a neighbor and friend, please.”
He smiled. Then turned to the girl.
“Does that answer your question?”
She gave him a serious stare with faintly orange eyes.
“Yes, Mister half-Giant. Thank you. Um. Is it hard, being the last half-Giant? It seems really lonely.”
He blinked at her, then smiled ruefully.
“Perhaps it is. I wouldn’t know; we half-Giants have been the last for a long time. It’s not that scary. Being the last friend, the last member of a team, is far, far harder. So long as you have friends and family, being the ‘last’ anything isn’t hard, Miss. Do you have any more questions?”
She blinked up at him as her parents stirred, and he thought she saw some comprehension flicker in her tiny face. An inkling of mortality. She held her doll tighter, thinking, then pointed.
“…Is that a magic staff?”
He laughed and reached up to the emerald gem. To her delight and awe, he pulled a glowing flower with petals that shone like moonbeams out and handed it to her. Then he rose, nodded at her parents, and continued on his way.
After a moment, the Watch Captain followed.
 
——
 
Beilmark was not Zevara, a fact she was keenly grateful for. She had a different approach than the smoke-spitting Watch Captain that was simultaneously more subtle and, sometimes, more direct than the Drake.
Zevara probably would have been here in the rain, following the half-Giant around, but every person who saw her wanted to talk about the Hissl-Moass incident, so she was no good undercover. She’d tried a huge trench coat and hat, but that was so silly everyone in the 3rd District Watchhouse had laughed their tails off when they heard about that.
The Gnoll caught up to the mystery half-Giant after two streets. He did slow when he saw her, and she raised a paw.
“Excuse me, Lord Raithland. Do you have time for a friendly word? You are not under arrest, yes?”
“I had no fear of that, Watch Captain. You have the better of me; I confess, I thought you were Captain Zevara.”
“Ah, she is busy looking into someone stealing water or something silly of that kind. Now she is a detective, everyone has problems for her to solve. She’s found four lost cats already. I am Watch Captain Beilmark. 3rd District. May I ask what you were doing back there?”
“Merely interfering in a silly fight. I am sure your Watch would have handled the matter, but I interfered, as anyone might.”
She peered up at him. He wore a mysterious smile, and she had no read on him. The Gnoll sniffed, trying to memorize his scent.
“Hrr. Anyone of your size, perhaps. Did you mean what you said, that you intend to live here?”
He continued walking, a touch slower, still spinning his staff.
“Of course.”
Beilmark eyed the whirling haft of wood. It wasn’t too close to her, but she felt like ducking.
“I may ask you to stop swinging that staff around, Lord Mireden. It would be a tragedy if it hit someone, no? Where does one learn tricks like that?”
Obligingly, he stopped spinning his staff. But rather contrarily, the half-Giant seemed to place it in the air, where it floated after him, slowly rotating around his body. He winked at her as even more heads turned.
“I picked the trick up on Chandrar when I lived half a year in the company of the Nomads of the Sky.”
“Oh, the ones who follow the King of Destruction?”
There were very few groups of half-Giants left. Moore nodded.
“Yes…though not when they were at war. Not all of them fight, you see. It was one of the few things I picked up of value there. The rest?”
He flicked a hand, shaking his head and smoothing his beard ruefully.
“It’s a silly fancy that comes across species who grow up far from ‘home’, Watch Captain. I was trying to find my people, much like that girl asked me about. Playing drums on the sand, mimicking the customs I thought would make me more of a half-Giant…”
He laughed and shook his head.
“Chandrarian [Nomads] are so far from how I was raised and lived. I wonder if you can relate?”
Despite herself, she grinned. The Watch Captain shrugged.
“You speak in a way most City Gnolls would understand, yes? Some of us aspire to be ‘real’ Gnolls, whatever that is, and copy our kin in the tribes. From how Plains Gnolls talk to how they act, as if that makes them more Gnollish. Myself, I have been a child of Liscor since before the Silverfangs came, so it is opposite for me, in a way. All their customs and habits seemed foreign to me. I’ve never longed to be on the plains. Too many bugs in the fur, I imagine.”
The half-Giant nodded with that twinkle in his eyes. He gestured at the quarterstaff.
“Well, if that concludes your investigation, you may write down that I am quite good with a quarterstaff, Watch Captain Beilmark. As a younger man, I used my fists until I realized I kept getting hurt…a quarterstaff is far more useful, especially as this is a magical staff as well. Everyone has heard the tale of the [Farmer] who beat a [Swordmaster] with a staff.”
Beilmark nodded. Moore tapped his staff and winked at her.
“I rather fancy I have better odds than most [Farmers], don’t you?”
The Gnoll woman grinned. And she privately resolved to never get into a fight with this half-Giant and make a note for the Watch to be highly careful of this Mireden Raithland. She thanked him for his time.
“And may I ask one last question, Lord Mireden? I noticed you had put your name in the elections for City Council in your area. Hrr. There are fifty candidates, and I doubt many would know you by name. By height, yes…if you fail to win your election, what will you do? Are you an adventurer? Or are you going to be a—a [Lord]? Forgive me, I do not know how that class lives.”
The half-Giant nodded at her as they came back to Shivertail Plaza. He halted in line and smiled at her.
“Fear not, Watch Captain. I have utter faith I will win. But regardless, even if I should fail, I intend to do a bit of business in Liscor.”
“Enchanting? Magical services?”
He shook his head, still with that twinkle in his eye that was slightly annoying.
“No. Sewer cleaning. I am a [Green Mage]. Artisanal work as well. Not that I’m a fine crafter. I practice some alchemy as well—I do invite you to visit the first shop I open.”
With that, he ducked back into the door and vanished. Beilmark folded her arms and sniffed as some of the other [Guards] who had been surveilling him came over. She growled at one of them.
“Alright, put him on the list of Crazy Inn People. At the top of the list, yes? Right next to the Archmage. He makes my fur stand on end. I hope he’s on our side.”
“Are you gonna vote for him, Watch Captain? You moved to his district, didn’t you?”
Beilmark snorted at one of the younger [Guards].
“I don’t even know what he’s offering Liscor. Shut up about politics. Back to work!”
 
——
 
Something to offer Liscor. Yes, that was the problem. He had to show them his value more than just being a helpful [Mage] who had blocked spells.
Gold was no good. No one respected someone just handing out gold. They might need someone like that, the quintessential [Lord] who could buy influence, but who really believed in someone like that?
…Well, enough idiots, maybe. But Lord Moore wanted genuine appreciation. He wasn’t worried. He had a plan, and he’d just confirmed it would work.
What he needed was help, though. He doubted he’d find it in Liscor; the city wasn’t quite right. Too much business flowing in, ironically. So the half-Giant went to the only other location he thought worked on multiple levels.
If Moore intended Liscor to be under his aegis, then Invrisil had been claimed by Magnolia Reinhart and her kin. Celum was, likewise, under the purview of Xitegen—he could almost see the Thigh Lord’s influence around it. Moore didn’t need to butt heads with Lord Xitegen yet. The same with Riverfarm. That [Emperor] was so…prickly in Lord Moore’s experience. And he’d broken up with Durene six years early. Definitely not.
So he went to the only other place that made sense.
Esthelm.
Not that the city was poor, mind you. Just not as prosperous as Liscor. Moore eyed the walls that had been reconstructed by the Antinium; they were actually more impressive than Liscor’s.
The waterproof solid walls of Liscor were impressive on an engineering level, but they didn’t have spikes. Nor cauldrons you could fill with boiling oil or three glittering enchantments that glowed at all hours.
More Wistram magic. Esthelm’s Watch appeared sharp too. Moore noted the clay streets had been paved over with good, quarried stone in most places, and there were a lot of [Miners] going to work.
A good number of Drakes and Gnolls too; probably visiting to buy said gemstones or to try to order from the forges he could hear in the distance. Pelt was transforming Esthelm into a real city of industry. A good ally to have!
However, the Dwarf couldn’t revitalize everything, and the city’s association with Liscor had actually led to downsides. Just as Moore predicted as he walked down Gemcutter Avenue, aptly named for its stores, he noted more than one shuttered business or empty storefront.
He nodded to himself, then stopped someone on the street.
“Excuse me, do you know who the best charm-expert in the city would be?”
The surprised woman hesitated, but then pointed.
“That’d be Miss Ediya. Bezoar Street. Right at the statue of the [Florist] in the main square. Although, uh—if you came for charms, you might as well try Pallass.”
She gave him a guilty look as she glanced around, aware she was throwing the local artisans under the wagon. The half-Giant just nodded.
“Miss Ediya will do excellently. Thank you, Miss.”
He strode off. The [Florist]’s statue?
Ah. Of course.
 
——
 
The problem with the magic door in Liscor was that it allowed other cities to send goods through the door or buyers enter Invrisil and Esthelm. The effect on prices had already been felt by Liscorians, but the reverse was also true.
Buying ore in Esthelm cheap was an excellent thing for [Smiths]! Riverfarm’s huge agricultural industry suppressed food prices, and there was a valuable network of trade goods enabled by the magical door and Liska. No wonder she was levelling.
However, lowering the price of food meant local [Farmers] earned a lot less. In the same way, other cities could ruin local industries. To wit: Pallass.
The City of Inventions had too much magical expertise. Too many goods flowed into it; Salazsar’s gemstone mines could fill most of Izril’s southern cities with gems, and many [Merchants] brought such gems north to sell at high fees.
What happened when that many gems and higher-level classes in Pallass met Esthelm, who had their own [Runecrafters], [Gemcutters], [Jewelers], and so on?
Shuttered businesses or prosperous owners now struggling to make a decent wage. In fact, when Lord Moore checked Miss Ediya’s shop, she wasn’t even in. A rather dispirited half-Elf sitting in a rocking chair outside his home told the half-Giant she might not be in today.
“Sorry, Mister. There’s little point to us opening our stores. Not this week.”
“Why this week? I’m Lord Mireden. And you are?”
The half-Elf shook Moore’s hand, then gestured at his store.
“Malack’s Mystiques. That’s me, Malack. Ediya used to sell her runes, and I’m a [Gemcutter]. I used to have an [Enchanter] charm everything up, and we’d compete for business. She does cooling charms for the summer and warming for the winter; mine are good for keeping mice out of flour, teeth from rotting, that sort of thing. Just hang them up over your bed or wherever. They work.”
“I take it that’s not the case any longer?”
The half-Elf sighed.
“Oh, no. They still work fine. But my [Enchanter]’s moved to Liscor. And there are so many gems from Salazsar, pre-cut, that I don’t have much work. I’d say there is still a need for our charms, even if we can’t match a Walled City or Invrisil, but…we were doing good business on Lundas. Then the [Witches] put on a festival.”
He pulled a face, and the half-Giant nodded.
“Ah. They sell charms?”
Malack’s face soured with envy as much as despair.
“The kind of stuff none of us can make! Crow’s teeth—I didn’t even know they had teeth—weird wickerworks to catch bad dreams. I went there, and you know what the first thing I saw was? A charm made out of a bunch of teeth—real teeth. Tree rot, that turned my stomach. I was telling the [Witch] no one would buy it when she told me it unrots your teeth. Each tooth takes on the rot somehow. So it wears out, but if you have a mouth of cavities…”
Moore saw the problem.
“Hard to compete?”
Malack jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“I bought all she had. Sold them all at twice the cost. Unfortunately, my customers got wise to that, and they just go to Riverfarm. We won’t see work for the week, Ediya and I. Makes me want to move back home.”
“You’re from Terandria? Not many half-Elves live in Izril.”
The [Gemcutter] shrugged.
“It’s fine enough. Better than home. I lived in Pheislant. One day, I got a bit too tired of all the little comments. Fathers thinking I was charming daughters. Mothers asking about my charms to give them long life, better looks. [Mages] asking me where all my half-Elven secret spells of the ancients were. I’m seventy. I feel seventy.”
He looked thirty, though time had weathered him a bit up. Moore chuckled.
“And the Drakes and Gnolls and Izrilian Humans are that much better?”
The half-Elf winked at him.
“Why, sure. I’m better than those Drakes and Gnolls with the Izrilian Humans, and better than those Humans and Gnolls with the Drakes. The Gnolls think I’m better than the Drakes and Humans, and I can’t be worse than Antinium! Myself, I like the Antinium the most. They can’t even tell I’m a half-Elf most of the time.”
They had a good laugh about that. Malack seemed quite happy to chat about Esthelm—he’d fled the Goblin Lord then came back to rebuild. He was all too happy to credit Pelt with the improvement in the city’s fortunes.
“The door ruining our business is bad luck. But I won’t say bad things about that [Innkeeper] for all she’s unpopular in other cities. Nor will Ediya. She stayed and survived the Goblin Lord’s attack. Hid out in her cellar with three families. Brave as can be. She helped us rebuild our walls, you know.”
“Hmm. I do have a proposal for Miss Ediya. I don’t need Pallass-made gems or charms, Malack. Can you help me find her? That might mean some work for you as well.”
The half-Elf raised his brows. He noted Lord Moore’s clothing, which showed no signs of the rain he’d been in; the water just slid off the enchanted cloth. The half-Elf got out of his rocking chair.
“I can do that. If she’s not out shopping, like as not she’ll be in the main square with the statue. We’ve been having more and more guests to the city defacing it.”
They headed down the street and came to the square in no time at all. When he saw the image of the [Florist] and the thirteen Goblins standing around her with weapons in hand, Lord Moore nodded. Then he focused on the splotches on the stone.
It seemed someone had decided to throw mud, or possibly feces, at the statue. Probably mud; you had to be prepared to throw poop. There was a little fountain behind the statue, and the half-Giant and half-Elf saw an old woman with brown skin tossing water up on the statue.
It wasn’t the most effective method, but she seemed hardly able to climb up and just scrub it herself. The half-Giant halted with approval on his face, if not for the besmirched statue, then the actions of the old woman.
What drew his attention was actually the second statue in the square. Because he’d rather forgotten it existed.
In ten year’s time, it was long-since destroyed, an act of vandalism by unnamed culprits, probably Vampires. But even in this world, the second statue facing the opposite direction just seemed…well, less important. Perhaps, and this was unfair but accurate, perhaps it was just that Ylawes Byres was less interesting.
The [Knight] had one of those quintessential heroic poses as he stood with shield in hand, facing towards the southern gates, and the statue to the Captain of the Silver Swords commemorated his team’s efforts in saving the city. It was a good likeness of him, bold chin and jaw, good-looking armor.
But it just wasn’t the same as that [Florist] pointing ahead, a bouquet of flowers in hand, flanked by Goblins. Both were of Esthelm’s heroes, but the [Knight] was expected, praiseworthy, even mundane. The Goblins and the [Florist] were the story that made you ask questions.
There was nothing in the Ylawes statue that Lord Moore needed, but he did nod to it once. It looked good enough; no one was throwing poo at this statue as of yet. Certainly, Malack just strode past it as he cupped his hands to his mouth, loath to get mud on his shoes from the street.
“Ediya! I have a customer for you!”
Malack called out, shaking his head as he eyed the statues. The grouchy woman shouted back.
“It’ll wait, Malack! Send them to Riverfarm or Pallass! This is the third time this week! The Watch should post a guard out!”
Trying to clean a statue commemorating Goblins would have been unthinkable in another city. But Esthelm? Moore closed his eyes a moment as he approached and nodded.
Yes, here too. He saw several passersby eying Ediya and the statue. Visitors were askance, but citizens of Esthelm were not. Some looked like they might have actually come over to help if they weren’t so busy.
The cursing woman was telling Malack to bring her a long broom when Lord Moore strode over. He raised his staff, and she pointed a warning finger at him.
“Don’t touch the statue with that. If you damage it—”
“[Mass Cleanse].”
The mud and grime vanished. So did the water and all detritus on the street in a thirty-foot radius. The fountain was left untouched, though the waters now had a clear sheen to them.
Malack leapt back, and Ediya halted, open-mouthed, as the statue gleamed in the sun. The half-Giant calmly lowered his staff and bowed to her.
“I apologize for wasting your effort, Miss Ediya. May I introduce myself? I am Lord Mireden Raithland, and I hoped I could speak to you and Malack about a business proposal.”
She was sharp and spirited. Only a moment passed before she began wading out of the fountain.
“Well, if it’s something you can’t enchant yourself, I doubt I can help. But I’ll hear you out for saving my back the effort and giving the [Florist] her due. You know her, do you? Or are you new to the city? Not many look at her without questions.”
Lord Moore glanced at the Goblins.
“I come from The Wandering Inn.”
“Ah.”
They asked no more questions after that. Well, about the statue. Ediya leapt to the ground, and Moore conjured some warm air, though the sunlight was fair enough. She raised her brows at him.
“How could we help you, Lord Mireden? You have more magic in that staff than I have in my entire body. Every [Crafter] on Bezoar Street combined couldn’t match your mana pool, I’ll wager.”
He smiled at her.
“I hope to meet them all. And if you will help me, I intend to put a proposal before all of you for new work. It will pay well. I can offer you an hour’s worth of coin to follow me and hear me out.”
Her brows rose. Ediya glanced at Malack, then lifted a finger.
“I don’t take coin to hear a man out. It might take a second to find them all, but Gemcutter Avenue has more of us. This had better not be like the Golden Triangle.”
“Not at all. It’s a quick walk to Liscor, a demonstration, and then back to Esthelm. I can cover the door fees.”
She folded her arms, then shrugged and nodded.
“Malack, you take Gemcutter’s, I’ll take Lord Mireden to Bezoar. We’ll be back in twenty minutes by the statue. I’ve been meaning to visit Liscor anyways. Ever since that City Runner, what was his name? Fals. Ever since he came by, my fortunes have gone up and down.”
The [Runecrafter] eyed him, not quite concealing the faint hope that he had brought a shift for the better. Lord Mireden just gazed at the statue.
“The fortune was here all along, Miss Ediya. I just hope to show it to you.”
After a second, she snorted.
“You had better not be a [Charlatan]. Or I will carve a [Rune of Itchy Feet] into your boots.”
He laughed at that.
 
——
 
When Liska saw Lord Moore returning for a third time in the same hour, with thirty artisans from Esthelm in tow, she had to protest.
“Oh come on. I know you’re a guest, but there’s limits to the door’s reserves! We’re at 36% today already! Some idiots just had to bring in a bunch of goods from Invrisil. Idiot [Merchant] complained when I charged him for it too. We’re not made of mana here! Okay, we have lots, but…”
Lord Moore turned and tapped the [Door of Portals] with a finger. Mana didn’t work like lightning; it didn’t arc from his fingers to the door. Rather, a nimbus of magic swirled around the door, almost like water moving in three-dimensional space.
A far more complex technique than any of the other [Mages] had ever seen; a regular artifact might just draw the mana from an unguarded source, like a gravitational pull of airborne particles. But the half-Giant seemed to create a cloud that infused the very air with force, then…melded into the floorboards, the wall, and the doorframe?
Some of the crafters following him from Esthelm gasped at the display of magical power. Miss Ediya just nodded to herself.
Liska halted mid-rant, mouth open. She croaked.
“Okay, we’re at 120%. I thought you couldn’t recharge…er, where do you want to go? Priority location change!”
“Liscor, please, Liska. Thank you.”
The half-Giant moved through the door and spoke in a carrying voice as the [Crafters] filed through behind him.
“My hope is that you’ll all sell the new type of charm I intend to teach you. There are those in Liscor who could do the same, and I hope, in time, they do want to learn. But I would prefer you to have the first chance.”
Malack glanced at some of the other men and women, mostly in their advanced years, who were following him. Ediya spoke in a carrying voice.
“For a cut of our profits? If it sells well, you can be sure we’ll do it, but how much of a cut will determine whether or not we’re working ourselves for nothing, Lord Mireden.”
He lifted a hand.
“A small cut, perhaps, for the teaching. But I would rather take my investment in the form of charms. I may need…quite a lot. I intend to be your best customer.”
That provoked skepticism, as well it might. Malack frowned as he shivered under the rain. Then he glanced up as a barrier spell bloomed overhead like a huge flower, shielding them. He nudged Ediya silently and then spoke.
“I don’t need to tell you this, but most charms conflict like artifacts, Lord Mireden. They don’t explode—mostly—but if you put too many together, they’d just…tangle. Nor are ours the sort that can last more than a few months. Ediya could do half a year, maybe? No more.”
They were all peering at him. Ediya nodded.
“I could do years if I worked my best, but charms are a trinket at best. Even a Gold-rank adventurer would only carry two if they had the magical capacity.”
“Not these ones.”
Lord Moore was remembering an archway hung with hundreds, thousands of bells. He lifted his hand, and the vision was replaced by grey skies. He turned to the others.
“These ones only grow in conjunction with each other. And they can last forever, even if made by a Level 10 [Artisan]. The making might take six times, ten times as long as a regular charm. But the cost is low in raw material, usually. It’s time and other factors that determine the difficulty and complexity.”
“You’re selling us an idea made out of Dreamleaf smoke, Lord Mireden. No such charm exists…that I know of. Are you from Wistram’s Terras faction?”
Ediya shot back, and everyone gazed at him hopefully. Once more, Lord Moore grinned.
“No. I’m from The Wandering Inn.”
A few of the crafters trailing behind glanced at each other, then picked up the pace. And some of Liscor’s citizens who had that nose for these moments, like Miss Ambiese who had just come out of The Wandering Inn, followed.
 
——
 
He took them to the only place that mattered. He could have never left Esthelm, of course, but this was his selfishness.
Lord Moore halted at his destination. The north gate of Liscor was closed, obviously. It was reinforced by a glowing barrier spell, and the door had been caulked up with mud and braced—beyond it lay the floodwaters of the filled plains, so of course it was inspected daily and people were kept well clear of it.
However, he didn’t need to get close. The small crowd of people gazed at the place he had brought them. The artisans were in fact a group within a group, for again, he had summoned a crowd just by his nature and walk.
Well, that and the floating umbrella spell that sheltered everyone from the rain. It followed the group as they moved, and Liscorians, especially those with magical backgrounds, were drawn to it.
They were used to parasols, and yes, some umbrellas, but this one looked…different. And movable magical barriers? The Archmage of Izril and her apprentice didn’t do that; even when Valeterisa shielded Relc from the rains, it was static barriers.
Yet the place that the half-Giant had taken them to hardly seemed impressive. The object by the gates was mundane, even. Nonmagical.
It was an altar on the side of the street, on the sidewalk in a gap between buildings. A simple structure, the kind that you found in the wilds, by a crossroads, or in places like this.
They were spontaneous; someone had nailed together a simple frame, and Lord Moore was surprised by how much they resembled the altars he knew.
But he supposed it was a kind of universal thing. Beneath the rain pattering off the sides of the slate roof shingles, he saw fresh flowers, some old. A colorful stone, a letter stamped and sealed. No coins; someone would just take them out when no one was watching.
Beneath the altar had been more flowers. When he’d first appeared here, he’d seen a profusion, battered by the rain, scattering petals onto the ground and being swept into the sewers. That there were still fresh tokens…
He stood there for a while until an older man, shivering despite the umbrella spell, spoke in a querulous voice.
“Ah, I, ah, I don’t understand why we’re here, Lord Raithland.”
Moore turned his head, the trance broken. He swung around and saw the familiar outline of Watch Captain Beilmark among the watchers. People staring up at him.
Now, the half-Giant stopped whispering. He spoke at his normal volume, and a street away, heads turned. His voice was no great shout, no roar for attention. He spoke, and they listened, like the very earth had once heeded the voice of Giants.
“This is where my nephew, Moore of the Halfseekers of Izril, died. Spellslinger Ulinde—this is the last place the Gold-rank team fought. They died to stop a Hag Queen from breaching the gates, and countless Draugr.”
His words provoked a silence from Esthelm’s people, who might not have known what this place meant. A few of them made arcane gestures; Ediya touched her lips, then drew a four-pointed symbol on her heart. The half-Giant looked around, then back at the gates.
I do not know what he faced. But he stopped whatever it was. He felt his skin chilling, though water didn’t touch it. His grip tightened on his staff.
“Do you feel it?”
Then he swung around to Malack and Ediya, and the crafters regarded each other. A few cast spells or muttered Skills. Then they shook their heads.
“What are we supposed to feel, Lord Mireden…?”
The half-Giant ignored Malack’s query. He spun, and then, faster now, he strode down the street. Faster—they parted before him, and his staff struck the ground.
Thum.
Below him, Antinium in their Hive glanced up, curious about the strange sound coming from above. Their antennae waved as they heard it again.
Thum.
Could she hear it in her prison? The Mother? It was like the sound of a heart beating through Liscor.
When the half-Giant halted again, he seemed even taller. A group of schoolchildren peeked through the windows of their classrooms. [Builders] repairing an apartment in the northern section of the city turned, hammers in hand, nails clenched between their teeth.
Another altar, two hundred paces down the street. This one—different. It was larger, and he didn’t begrudge her that. There were flowers, yes, but not as many.
Instead, there were…objects laid against the altar in the rain. Placed beneath it, like offerings to some strange god of battles. And Mireden knew the divine.
Tekshia Shivertail’s altar had spears laid before it. Practice spears, those hand-carved out of wood. Weapons used to kill monsters—a [Soldier]’s weapon of war. Senior Guardsman Relc had left the first one for Liscor’s [Spearmistress], and they were still here.
Beside this altar was a second one—and it had no weapons in the smaller shrine. Just…hats.
Worn hats, placed here before they were discarded. Some had holes in them or were frayed to the point where the cloth was almost transparent. That was how you know they’d been loved and served their purpose. Hats for gentlemen; spears for the Guildmistress of Liscor.
Moore spoke.
“Look. Here is where Tekshia Shivertail died. She and five Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings halted the Draugr who broke through the gates. Right here.”
If not exactly this street, then this place was where it had happened, and that was what mattered. This marker. This moment.
The half-Giant took a step into the center of the street, where the cobblestones were newly patched, but he could still see cracks around the place they had been repaired. He had noticed people walking around this spot.
Lord Mireden bent to one knee and touched the spot.
“This is where a Gold-rank adventurer died.”
His eyes stung. And he had not known her that well. But he remembered the grumpy old Drake who knew their job. When his eyes rose, they glowed. He planted the staff down, hard, and the streets shivered.
“A hundred thousand Draugr crashed down on Liscor, and they were halted. Outside these gates, Face-Eater Moths died. If I walked from here to the Bloodfields, I could show you that place where dozens of Silver-rank adventurers fell fighting the blight from Rhir. Then they downed an Adult Creler. Hell’s Wardens were made in blood there. And there—”
He pointed eastwards.
“Those gates are where Skinner once broke through. Where he was stopped by the Black Tide. He died on the Floodplains of Liscor, where the Goblin Lord Reiss met his end. All of this, and more, I know. You know. Do you sense it?”
Lord Moore turned to the man who had asked, and the [Enchanter] shook his head.
“I can’t detect anything. Lord Mireden—”
The half-Giant’s voice rose to a shout now.
“How can you not feel it?”
The old [Enchanter] flinched. Lord Moore swept his gaze around, seeking understanding in anyone’s faces. He felt it. It was the chill on his skin, the stinging in his eyes. The pain of his heart. The tingling of fate as it touched his shoulder and pointed.
Miss Ediya spoke.
“I feel it. But that isn’t magic, Lord Mireden.”
There were goosebumps on her arms. She gazed at the altars like she had the [Florist]’s statue. She understood part of it. The half-Giant spread his arms.
“Did I say I was taking you to find mere magic? You feel it. All of you do. You just think that is all there is to it. This spot means something.”
He pointed down at the ground. Who would dare deny it? The half-Giant whispered.
“If I dared to tear down this altar, I would be fought. It would be rebuilt. If I spat on this ground, of all the many streets in Liscor, someone would speak out. Why? If it is nothing but bare earth and stone, why is that true?”
No one replied. So, the half-Giant walked over and gently lifted a spear from the altar. It was almost a profane act, but he held it so gently and turned to them.
“Is this an ordinary spear? No. If I were to place a spear here and ask for courage before a battle I knew I might never win—is it the same spear I could buy in any shop? No. Is that statue in Esthelm’s heart made of mere stone and history?”
“No.”
The [Runecrafter] wasn’t the only person to say it. Malack was gazing down at the flagstones.
“I’d rather set fire to my shop than pry up a cobblestone or steal these spears to carve up and sell as trinkets, Lord Mireden.”
“I would too.”
The half-Giant gently put the spear back where it belonged. Then he produced something from his pockets. He hung it in the air as they all looked at it.
It was made by his own hands, but he was no great crafter. He had just enough talent with magic and his fingers to take a piece of wood he had carved from a tree in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and a piece of metal he’d shaped into a point.
“This sliver of wood I took from the oldest tree I could find in the [Garden of Sanctuary] where her statue rests. I burnt the wood with the flame of glory in the Order of Solstice’s keep. The metal I took from a spear that had been used until it broke. I would never dare to steal anything or profane her will. But I knew Tekshia Shivertail. And I hope that if she were here, she would grant anyone worthy the thing she had too much of.”
He clapped his hands together in an act none of them, save for a watching Antinium Worker, knew.
Prayer.
Lord Mireden closed his eyes and thought of Tekshia. The wind blew faintly on his skin as it chilled, and he saw the Drake raising her spear.
“A bit of courage.”
When he opened his eyes, he could see it. Faintly, ever-so-faintly, for he was no [Priest], nor had he been a true believer of the Prophet Pawn. But sometimes, in this world, you could see it with your own eyes.
Malack gasped as he pointed, and they saw the faintest glow touching the edge of the little spear-charm. Like light glancing off the edge of it, but the skies were rainy and dark. The half-Giant reached up, but he didn’t take the charm.
“It should hang here long. And there are more ways to respectfully harness the meaning here.”
“What is…what is this called?”
Ediya spoke, dry-mouthed, and the half-Giant turned to her.
“It is like faith, but the [Witches] know it too. I simply call it meaning. Sites of power. Liscor has so many. But [Witches] cannot harness this; it is not their city.”
“Nor is it ours.”
The [Runecrafter] pointed out, and the [Lord] smiled.
“Yours and Liscor are connected. But more importantly—you are not [Witches]. Their craft does have rules, Miss Ediya. And if all that failed, you have at least one place in your city.”
The statue was overflowing with the very same meaning. The [Runecrafter]’s eyes widened, and she nodded. Lord Moore reached out and then spoke.
“…In time it might become too easy to make them. Yet I would love a city filled with such charms as the world has never seen. The belief in them will make them stronger. But the greatest ones will always be made by those who know the reason why they matter. They will only shine in the hands of those who take the time to listen. If I teach you, that is what I desire. One for every ten you make.”
They had such small value at first, until you added them up and they became an avalanche that could sweep aside mountains. Like the smallfolk.
The half-Giant swept his cloak around him as he began to walk back. To Esthelm, to show them how it was done in their city where it would be easiest.
He knew they were listening. Cityfolk and the Watch, murmuring. Disbelieving or, perhaps, believing and wanting to learn what he knew.
Let them try. There were rules they didn’t understand. Faith was one of them. The Lord of Liscor advanced. And the first thing he brought to Liscor, how they knew him? He came as a [Shopkeeper] with something new to sell. Lord Raithland was well aware of how Liscor stole everything new.
Try to steal this. 
He sat at a silly little stall later that day, as Miss Ediya and the other crafters of Esthelm rushed to work, and sold exactly three charms.
The first one was to a little Gnoll girl who spent all her allowance on a tiny spear. Her mother paid for it as Tirra listened on how she should use it and care for it.
The next was a Human man, Nule, who bought a blooming flower that a certain half-Giant had always loved with orange flowers and a yellow heart, carved and painted and hanging from a chain of soft ashwood.
The last was a Drake, Miss Ambiese, who stared for a long time at the little frying pan made of cast iron. She took it in trembling claws.
“Does it bring good luck or bad? Sorry. I know most charms don’t work like that. But this?”
She peered at him, and the half-Giant smiled as a line a hundred people long stared at him and he closed his shop. He stood like the mountains.
“Yes,” he told her. Then his eyes twinkled, and the city whispered his name. He began walking again, towards a vision of the future only he knew, taking them on a path away from the worst.
Once more on a strange and wonderful journey.

Interlude - Halfseekers (Pt. 4) (2025-09-15)

Hey Seborn.
“I’m not in the mood for this. Get lost.”
Oh, okay. Have a nice day.
The dirt street of the port town was muddy from the sea breeze blowing in. And it always blew in until only the tiled walkways and the wharf had any steady traction. [Sailors] swaying on land walked past [Traders] waiting for their ships to come in, and locals eyed the sails on the horizons like a [Farmer] watched clouds. But with wariness, for these clouds brought both gold and ill sorts.
A glowing Gnoll girl, semi-transparent, vanished as a Drowned Man stalked down the street. Half his face was a crab’s, a yellow eye glinting under the hood he’d pulled down over his head, and his jacket hid most of his features. But his huge, clawed hand he couldn’t fit in his pocket marked him as one of the seafolk. A regular sight in ports like these.
The girl—not so much. She vanished. Heads turned. A [Storm Sailor] about to spit in the gutters swallowed and glanced around.
The [Rogue] walked on, heedless of the eyes that followed him, the voices which rose, then fell to wariness as they noted the danger he carried. A Drowned Man, alone? Did he have a crew? Was he a scout of some kind? A straggler who’d been ousted from his crew, marooned?
“Hoi, sailor!”
At last, someone called to him, and he stopped. His head turned, and his blank face nearly made the regular [Deckhand] flinch. But the friendly young woman waved again and looked to her crew.
“Was that our imaginations or was there a little Gnoll girl with fur white as toilet paper following you?”
“Toilet paper ‘fore it’s used. Like so!”
Someone added with a laugh. The Drowned Man saw the crew hoisting more bales onto their ship from a waiting cart. It was indeed…toilet paper. A luxury at sea, and probably bound for somewhere that had no trees aplenty. Chandrar or even Rhir. No Drowned City could or would accept a landfolk’s ship like the two-masted trade ship.
It was wide-bellied, fat. The crew probably would say it was a good ship, but they were suckers for any seaworthy lady who’d let them aboard. They’d praise her until the moment she sank, and this one would sink the moment it breathed combat. No way to maneuver her, no oars nor tricks—just plain wood without any marks of a [Shipbuilder]’s seal.
It could crew maybe a hundred and some? It looked to hold half that—a fat little ship sailing the trade routes and never deviating, doing her runs from port to port. Not even old, but sagging already.
He said nothing as he gazed at the ship. The crew shifted, wondering if he’d heard. Seborn stared at the ship he’d never have gotten on for gold. Still…a ship.
“Sailor? Dija hear the quest?”
The [Deckhand] called again. Seborn turned his gaze to her, and his one eye was yellow, without pupil or iris, just a glow in the crab portion of his face. The other was dark blue. Unsmiling, he looked like the two daggers on his waist. Short of temper, if not height, and deadly. His tanned skin visible along the carapace on his face finally moved with his lips.
“White Gnoll? Around four feet tall? Wearing a kilt?”
“Yes, sailor, that one!”
The Drowned Man glanced over his shoulder.
He was a Drowned [Pirate] of the Undersea Crews, son of Therrium Sailwinds, and owed a ship.
He was a [Depth Rogue], Level 38, a Gold-rank adventurer of Izril who had journeyed on land for near a decade.
He was a Level 8 [Faith Seeker], a guest of that strange inn.
…No.
He had been these things. Once, the Drowned Man had been Seborn of the Halfseekers of Izril. The grumpy [Rogue] on a long adventure with his friends. Until it had been just a shy half-Giant, their bold and brash Selphid captain, and a rookie [Mage] from Wistram.
No longer. As he had always done, the Drowned Man had left.
He had left two graves behind in the Floodplains of Izril. He carried all that he could carry and his name with him. Now he stood in a city on Izril’s shores. And his eyes found that ship again.
Seborn turned back to the crew and [Deckhand]. He nodded over his shoulder at the place the little Gnoll girl had been following him.
“Didn’t see her. Must have been your imagination.”
He kept walking as the [Deckhand] wavered and opened her mouth, confused.
 
——
 
Ship #13 — The Half Mast
 
It was an ill-luck number, so it was just as well it was an ill-luck ship. Two months after the Winter Solstice had passed, spring was underway, and with it, the port town was bustling.
The Half Mast was a pun. A single-sail rigger with a [Captain] who probably hadn’t passed Level 20. Everyone had to start somewhere, but this fellow didn’t know the rules.
Seborn tried anyways. Hitchhiking rides and walking all the way to this city on Izril’s western coast wasn’t easy. This was the sixth port he’d visited. Not the biggest by far, but he knew he couldn’t be picky. And the [Captain] did hear him out rather than turn him away with laughter or a curse.
The introduction helped.
“Gold-rank adventurer? And you want to buy my ship? He’s a bit of a funny fellow, but I’d hear out a decent price.”
“She.”
The [Captain] laughed jovially; he was a Human who ran seafood deliveries mostly up and down the coastline, even sailing it up the rivers.
“No, he! I’ve heard the old tradition that all ships are female. Well I thought, why not make my fellow a ‘him’? Like the name and figurehead?”
The Half Mast had a rather crude figurehead that was just a scarecrow, mildewed, with a piece of wood sticking out prominently between his legs. Seborn got the joke. He didn’t laugh.
“How’s the condition of the ship?”
The [Captain] hesitated. He didn’t quite take to Seborn, but he was willing to bring the Drowned Man up the deck. He had a bright red coat, and he was in his thirties and had a swagger, like how he thought a real [Captain] acted. Seborn, in his dark, worn attire with his patched leather armor, appeared quite poor. He’d had to get a certificate from the Adventurer’s Guild to prove he was Gold-rank.
One of them would be shot first if they ever came to a sea battle. The [Captain] slapped the central mast of the rigger.
“This one’s not half-anything! How’s he look? Er—watch your feet there. He sags a bit.”
Seborn was springing up and down on a part of the deck that creaked alarmingly. The [Captain] was trying to talk up his ship, but the Drowned Man had already spotted a piece of the deck bowing inwards. One look belowdecks confirmed the same.
“The caulking isn’t up to code. One big storm and your ship will spring leaks.”
“Code? What code?”
The [Captain] began to get offended as some of the [Sailors], all probably local, glanced up. A few of them seemed like seasoned hands, probably paid to keep this ship running. One of them held up the last two fingers of their hands, pinkie and ring finger. Seborn nodded to them as he passed.
“You should get it redone. Sails look fine. Ditch the name and figurehead. I can’t imagine any [Storm Sailors] hire onto this ship, ever. Even if it’s a rigger, it deserves better than this.”
“A what? He’s a Joust-class ship, not a—are you interested or not?”
“What do you think? Oh, and you’ve got rats.”
The Drowned Man glanced over his shoulder and jerked a thumb at a bundle of ropes. The incredulous [Captain] opened his mouth, and Seborn took two steps towards the railing and leapt it.
He landed on the docks below lightly and strode off. The [Captain] rushed to the railing.
“Some adventurer! Who the hell are you? I invite you into my ship and that’s what I get? Bastard didn’t even share a drink!”
He turned to the crew, furious. Most avoided his gaze. An unlucky [Sailor] caught his eye, and the [Captain] edged over.
“Jord, you’ve sailed the open seas. What the hell was he on about?”
The [Sailor] was no veteran, but he was an expert compared to the local ones. He whispered back.
“He’s a proper seadog, that one, Captain. Did he tell you his name?”
“No, only that he was a Gold-ranker. I think his name was on the paper. Didn’t catch it. S…Sea something? What was he doing? He’s right about the damn caulking; it leaked like hell last storm. But he was off the moment he heard about the Half Mast being a ‘he’. And a code?”
Jord had to explain.
“Real sailors like him are superstitious as they get, Captain. I told you, no one likes anyone breaking the rules, even if the Half Mast was built locally. It’s bad luck. A figurehead should be important. As for the name—”
He eyed the mast. It was bad luck to have a name like that, even if they had never lost their ship’s mast. The [Captain] gritted his teeth; he’d heard the same before.
“And the code?”
Another [Sailor] piped in here.
“Probably [Shipbuilders]’ codes? Drowned Folk have ‘em. Really fancy ships are all built to some standards or other. I met a fellow who could read every ship coming in and tell you what kind of wood it was made of and how it was constructed. That’s why he called the Half Mast a ‘rigger’. It’s short for ‘jury-rigged’, Captain. Not made to any standard. Drowned Folk hate ‘em. Because they have to sink their ships in the ocean, see?”
“Bah. If he’s so smart, why’s he buying ships from me?”
That was a really good question. The [Captain] went over to kick the bundle of ropes Seborn had pointed in. Three rats leapt out, and he swore.
“They don’t got those on Drowned Ships neither. Tight crews. Think he was a [Pirate]?”
Jord commented to his buddies. One of them muttered back.
“Which of them isn’t? Scary fellow. I’d not serve with him if he bought the ship and was looking for a crew. Piracy’s a fun dream, but I saw a fellow with no arms or legs in Masevon. Former [Pirate]. Poor bastard.”
Someone spat onto the decks then swabbed a mop over it.
“True that. After the Bloodtear Pirates? Wellfar’s been sailing a storm up and down the coast. Even saw the Pride herself. Who’d risk it now?”
Everyone nodded sagely as Jord rolled his eyes. None of the others had gone more than ten miles off the coast. Nor would he in this ship. That Drowned Man had known his work to abandon the Half Mast after one look; it’d never survive a true ocean’s journey. He turned.
“Hey, Captain, what was that fellow’s name? Sea-something?”
“I don’t remember! Something…Sailwinds, that’s right! Common enough name.”
Everyone agreed except for one man. Jord had frozen up with his hands on a bundle of ropes he was tying to a post on the ship. He croaked as he looked back across the harbor, searching for the Drowned Man.
“Sailwinds? A Drowned Man with the last name of Sailwinds, Captain?”
“What about it? That’s the name you give to any bastard born on the sea, isn’t it? Even I know that.”
The [Captain] grumbled. But Jord was trying to remember…he craned his neck, searching for the man.
“True enough. But there’s only one Gold-rank Adventurer with the name on Izril’s shores. If that was him—then we all dodged an enchanted arrow. That might’ve been Therrium Sailwinds’ son. Therrium Sailwinds of The Passing Shadow. One’ve the deadliest [Depth Captains] living.”
Everyone went silent. A shiver ran through the crew, and the [Captain] halted, mouth open. Even he’d heard of the Drowned Man who’d been on the television and the reputation of the Underseas Crews.
One of the sailors muttered into his fist, then made a tossing gesture over the side of the ship for luck. Several more copied him. Jord tore his eyes from the harbor.
“Famous, is he?”
“Not the most. But it’s a story. His brothers are bastards who’ve shed more blood than piss over their lives. His father’s sunk more than a hundred ships.”
“So what’s someone like that doing trying to buy a ship and working as a Gold-ranker?”
Jord was trying to remember.
“Let’s see if anyone knows at the tavern tonight. I think it was something about a blood debt or something? And he joined some kind of team. Think I’ve heard of it too. The…the…”
He snapped his fingers, but the name eluded him. Only later did someone remember it.
Seborn of the Halfseekers. A name long forgotten by the seafolk save for that last name.
Seborn, Therrium’s second son.
 
——
 
He was owed a ship. That was the root of it. He was owed a ship, and it wasn’t being given to him, not one he wanted.
Half-rate cruisers. Aging warships long past their primes. Even noble’s pleasure ships—nothing like what he was owed. What he deserved.
The deal had been simple. He risked his neck, he got his ship. A proper ship and command. Only, Therrium hadn’t ever seemed to have the right ship he could afford to give to his second-eldest son. There was always some other [Captain] or his brothers to appease, nevermind that the [Depth Captain] had an entire damn fleet at his disposal.
The breaking point had been his elder brother getting the ship he wanted. So, Seborn had walked off. With all the treasure from the latest raid. 
That was…rash. He’d been in three knife-fights already and had to move inland to avoid his father’s wrath. He could have the damn treasure back when Seborn got his ship. Only the Drowned Man knew where it was buried.
He just wanted a damn ship. He’d served his time working his way up from a [Deckhand], just like his two brothers. But being the second-son wasn’t easy. 
You’d think the eldest son would get all the pressure, but instead, the first ship and chance went to him. Drelef Sailwinds had a crew and a reputation.
And the third son, the runt, Buenec, should have been the weakest one, the junior. Seborn used to mentor his younger brother while Drelef harassed the boy—until Buenec became a prodigy. The Gold-belled [Captain] of his own ship, because who wouldn’t give one to the best [Swordmaster] in Therrium’s fleet?
So. Seborn. He’d known he wasn’t thought of as a leader like Drelef, for all his brother’s temper, but he had been respected as a [Rogue] who’d brought more than his fair share of the treasure. If he had a chance…he just wanted a proper ship to start with. Not a clunker.
Instead, here he was, working as a Silver-rank adventurer on Izril’s shores. The Drowned Man was drinking in the bar, trying to ignore his healing bruises. Throwing down with a team of [Warriors] hadn’t gone well for him. They’d taken both credit and the loot—five Nelrusk tusks. A fortune for the petty bastards.
He was so angry he was hoping someone would make a comment about him. When someone did speak, Seborn’s hand already held a dagger under the table as he took hold of his cup to throw it.
“Parent’s tits, a Drowned Man this far inland? Mind if we sit and buy you a drink, friend?”
“Yes. Get lost.”
When Seborn turned his head, though, it wasn’t who he expected. A Selphid was standing there, a dead man smiling down at him, and a tall half-Elf was waving at a [Barmaid]. A Drake woman with ash instead of scales folded her arms, wary. But what drew the eye was the half-Giant who stooped to come in. He seemed as though a passing sneeze could chase him away for all he was so tall that Seborn half-started from his chair.
“Don’t be like that, friend. We came all this way to say hello—Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers. I heard you got into a scrap with the Fist of Midlin. Mind talking to us about it? These are my teammates.”
The Selphid hooked a chair over to the table. Seborn saw some of the other clients staring at the odd batch. The half-Elf was the most normal one amongst them. A Drake in the north? 
What was wrong with her scales? The Drake grunted as she stood warily, arms folded.
“He’s got a dagger under the table, Jelaqua.”
“Yeah, I know. C’mon, adventurer. A drink? Salt’s honor, I just want to talk to a fellow traveller far from home.”
The Selphid annoyed Seborn with his direct stare and easy smile. Seborn growled.
“Piss off. I’m not here to reminisce and cry about being alone. I don’t need company either. Let alone from the Half Freaks.”
The half-Elf and Drake stiffened at this. Jelaqua’s eyes glinted. It might have been a fight, next, as he traced a finger on the table, searching for the right words. Seborn was ready—until a gentle hand fell on Jelaqua’s shoulder and pulled the Selphid back with ease, despite that.
“Jelaqua, come away. If he doesn’t wish to talk, we should respect that. Excuse us for interrupting your drinks, sir.”
The half-Giant said that. He bowed his head towards Seborn, awkward, and the Selphid hesitated.
“Hey, Moore—we came all this way just to—argh, fine. Don’t yank my arm out of its socket! The body’s fragile as it is.”
He rose, sighing, and Seborn saw the half-Giant glance at him curiously. The Drowned Man blinked as the adventurers turned to go. Just like that?
He kept waiting for this to be some artifice, a feint. But the half-Giant appeared genuinely disappointed and trooped to the door, and Seborn thought—
I doubt he can lie.
So he growled as Moore pushed the door open.
“If you’ve got a proposal and you’re buying, sit down. What the hell is a half-Giant doing on Izril’s shores?”
He’d never seen one in his life. There was a tale, at least. Moore perked up slightly, and Jelaqua turned. The Selphid grinned, and Seborn scowled harder as the Halfseekers came back to his table. He made room for Moore as the half-Giant searched for a seat that could fit him.
“I can sit on the floor. I know there’s little my size.”
He joked with the nervous [Barmaid], and Seborn kicked over a second chair to him.
“Just use two.”
That grateful look from the half-Giant as he sat was joined by the Selphid’s wide smile. Pleased and proud for a simple courtesy. Seborn scowled harder at them.
Determinedly, he took a long drink from his mug, ready to send these people on their way with politeness, at least. He didn’t know when he began swapping tales of Baleros with the Selphid, or talking of the places he’d visited to people who knew more than these local idiots who’d never ventured thirty miles past their city. Or why he agreed to more than a few missions with them. 
Seborn kept meaning to get back to the sea, to keep putting pressure on his father. But it was always ‘after this mission’, or he was too far inland and it could wait.
The truth was, he stopped remembering after a while. The call of his ship and his promise grew less and less, and then he was just adventuring with a Gold-rank team who’d finally gotten their due credit, and they had a surly Hobgoblin who beat even him for being rude and problematic. 
And they might hit Named-rank as a team soon…in truth, the Drowned Man had stopped remembering his ship at all, even when he saw the sea. Because he was dreaming.
A long, strange dream of ten years. Filled with triumph and betrayal. Then vengeance, loss, and relief. Of an inn, at the end, and the glory he knew they deserved. A bit of the gold he thought they were owed. 
A new teammate, perhaps, a new start. A dead [Innkeeper]. A village…
Up, down, and back again. An adventurer’s life. But such a fine dream.
And then…
 
——
 
He woke up.
The Drowned Man rolled out of his cheap inn’s bed, and his mouth was dry as it always was. He stumbled over to the washbasin and bucket of water he’d filled that night and scooped up a ladle of water. Washed his face. Then drank. He was always too dry on land.
When he lowered the ladle, he stared into the cracked mirror in the bathroom. The stinking bucket he emptied out the window instead of a bathroom buzzed with a few flies. Seborn gazed at his reflection in the mirror.
He felt like the King of Destruction. Napping for twenty years and awakening to reality. His team was gone. Disbanded forever. Jelaqua Ivirith was married and retired, and he was gone. There was no reforging the Halfseekers. No more adventurers. They had fought their last at the gates of Liscor. Paid the dues against the tab none of them had racked up, and it was done. He was done with the land.
His ship awaited.
The Drowned Man gazed at his reflection for a while. He wasn’t grey—yet—but it wouldn’t be that much longer now. Silently, he found a toothbrush and brushed at his teeth. Then glanced at his crab-side of his body. There was a growth of shell he didn’t like, so he found a file and removed it, scattering pieces of hard shell into the basin. Took a few more gulps of water.
Dressed himself. New mail armor made by Maughin under Wyvern leather coat. His enchanted daggers of frost and flame…belt of a [Rogue]’s tricks. No healing potions. Gold enough—not worth stealing. Most of it was at the Merchant’s Guild. A small fortune earned from adventuring. Enough, perhaps, to buy a ship and find his father to collect on his debts.
That done, the [Rogue] took the key from the lock where it was turned and walked downstairs. He placed the key on the counter; he’d already paid for his rooms. It was too early; the [Innkeeper] was abed, and a single candle and the smells of cooking told him the [Cook] was making breakfast.
A weary [Barmaid] nodded to Seborn as she hauled down buckets of water to wash out the privy and for cleaning. Warily, but no one had objected to his presence in the inn or charged him more than anyone else, for all he was a lone Drowned Man.
There was a time when he might have slept with an ear to the door for trouble, or walked out of any inn where a glower or spit was his first greeting. Instead, folk walked more warily around him.
They remembered what happened if his kind died. Other cities inland might not, but the coastal settlements remembered that lesson.
Better to be feared and hated than merely hated.
It didn’t change his isolation, but there wasn’t a brick heaved at his head to go with it.
The [Rogue] debated waiting for a meal, but he wasn’t hungry. The Drowned Man pulled a hood over his head; the sea’s spray was washing over the foggy harbortown. He opened the door, inhaled the sea breeze, familiar, unfamiliar, and left.
A waking man wishing to go back to sleep.
 
——
 
Ship #14 — The Prideful Swell
 
Staying in the harbortown of Litgren’s Bay wasn’t a bad move. Ships came in all the time, and Seborn had decided to linger in each harbor he came to at least a day or two.
The problem was…buying a ship was inherently hard. Few [Captains] wanted to just part with any ship for however much gold. And finding a good crew would be difficult.
Any crew could be bought for gold, but Seborn didn’t want to trust that sort of sailor. Yet he needed one if he wanted to actually leave Izril as anything but a passenger, and he’d have this problem at any major port.
It was actually easier, here, to buy a smaller ship than a bustling port like First Landing or Zeres. Once he had a ship, Seborn could get out to the open ocean. Finally earn his [Captain] class, maybe dig up his treasure, even do some business. Whether that was raiding other ships or more honest trade, he didn’t know. But at some point, he’d find his father and demand his due.
Nombernaught was where he’d heard Therrium was most often. It wouldn’t be hard to get down there. It had already occurred to Seborn he might make the journey, but by land would be treacherous and deadly alone.
And by sea? Non-Drowned Folk were wary of a Drowned City. More importantly, if he turned up without allies or crew to demand his due, his father might well just throw him into the sea. He needed his class first.
In truth, the Drowned Man felt like he was wasting his time. Months had passed since the Winter Solstice, and this was the fourteenth ship he’d tried to buy—fourteen out of many more where the [Captains] had waved him off without even hearing him out.
“She’s a good schooner. Not likely to carry more than a dozen, but her topsail is good. She’ll run faster’n most vessels—see the hand-stitching on the sail there? Bit of magic woven into it. Catches the wind well.”
The schooner, Prideful Swell, was smaller than the Half Mast by a good bit; it was a small ship that had a short foremast and narrow frame. It’d catch the wind well; a classic ship to run blockades and carry packages. Not a warship by any means, but the nimbleness was decent. Seborn could imagine he’d be able to run it well with smuggling work, or even stealing from other ships and making a getaway.
The moment I start stealing, my Gold-rank will be in jeopardy. What do I care? I won’t be back on land. I’ll have a bounty again, if it’s not still active…
What am I stealing? Gold from a [Captain]’s quarters? Trade goods from a [Merchant]? What if it’s just a cargo of toilet paper? What in the hells do I do with that?
Well, he knew what you did with that—you found a buyer and sold it off. Everything could be sold. But the idea of robbing a [Captain] for their hundreds of gold at most wasn’t appealing to Seborn as a Gold-rank adventurer. It made fiscal sense as a [Captain] of a [Pirate] ship, of course.
You were always paying the bills if you had a crew. They were one payday away from mutiny at best, so robbing a ship would keep you solvent while you earned more gold. And you’d put the gold towards investments. Repairs on your ship, enchantments, upgrades…
Dead gods, it sounded like a lot of work. Adventurers had the same, but a [Captain]’s job accounted for far more than a single team. A ship was a huge property. It was like being an [Innkeeper], actually. And who’d want that job?
Seborn tried to feel excited about it as he paced up and down the schooner, testing it for bad floorboards or other signs of rot or pests. Ten years ago, he’d be all over the opportunity. Ten years ago, he’d been twenty-seven and chafing at the bit.
He eventually had to stop pacing and turn to the seller of the ship.
“Is there a reason you’re willing to part with her?”
The [Merchant] gave Seborn an odd look.
“Gold? I just had her deck resurfaced, and I’ve put in less gold than I’ve got out of her, but I’ll be the first to admit, Adventurer Sailwinds, owning a ship isn’t simple. Every [Merchant] talks about ‘investing’ in things. Another caravan, a shop, a ship—it turns out ships have costs. Crew, hiring a good [Captain] and replacing them, managing trade routes—I’m not fed up with it, but if you want to buy…”
He was a paunchy man with a colorful vest and didn’t move with the deck—a landman, it was clear. Seborn folded his arms.
“I’ll…have to think on it.”
This was one of the best ships he’d seen, and he could afford to buy it outright. The [Merchant] nodded.
“She’ll be here until I find a [Captain] and cargo. Fair warning: I won’t be able to sell it unless you want to buy out cargo and contract. I’d give you a day or two at best before I have everything in order.”
“I’ll get word to you before then. Thank you.”
“Not at all. And I am, ah, sorry about your team.”
“…Thanks.”
They shook hands. Seborn turned away, feeling the eyes on his back. He disliked this part of the ship-buying process the most. Few people saw anything in him other than a Drowned Man, who was common enough in harbors even if he was a minority in a Human city like this.
But when he told them his name…more than not knew who he was. Either his father’s son or a Halfseeker. That was part of the reason he wanted to get out to sea. There, he’d just be Seborn Sailwinds. Son of the famous Captain Therrium, not the last member of the Halfseekers. Was that better?
No. Sort of.
 
——
 
He felt like he was chasing his shadow. Seborn knew he was pursuing a younger man’s dreams, which weren’t thought out. He could hear voices.
“Right, Seborn. So you’ve got yourself a ship. Presumably after your dad gives it to you, and he’s definitely going to give it up without a fight from everything you say about him. What then?”
Jelaqua Ivirith. Seborn growled at her as he prowled past [Fishmongers], [Sailors] stumbling out of bars drunk and wondering why the sun was out, [Fishers] already bringing in their first hauls.
“Then I have a ship. That’s freedom. I can go anywhere, do anything.”
“Don’t you have to watch your crew and pay them? That seems pretty hard. Not that I’m an expert!”
Ulinde. He remembered not to scowl because it’d make her too upset, then remembered she was dead. The Drowned Man muttered.
“It’s been my dream since I was a boy.”
“Is it still your dream? You don’t look happy, Seborn.”
“Shut up, Moore. You’re dead. Should I be smiling?”
I thought it was a nice ship. Do you want to talk today, Seborn?
For a moment, he thought it was another voice in his head, but the golden words…he turned his head.
“Are you going to do this every day? I told you—I don’t want to see you.”
The girl backed up a few steps. She looked…guilty, but she held up a card.
I’m checking in on everyone. I can do it less. Once a week?
He almost snapped at her, then turned.
“Fine. I’ll buy it if I can find a good crew. Anything else?”
No. It’s calm at the inn right now. The rains have begun so everyone’s indoors. Jelaqua…I think she’s good. I haven’t seen her.
“Did I ask about Jelaqua?”
No, I’m sorry. I’ll go now. Good luck on your ship!
Vanished again. Seborn turned his head. He was plagued by ghosts. Living and the dead. He had come all this way to escape the inn. Just as he had…a certain girl had kept showing up. Checking on him.
Something about the Silver Swords being in trouble. Seborn knew the Horns of Hammerad were in Chandrar. He hadn’t seen Ksmvr on that broadcast where they’d fought Roshal. He’d left before they’d been found. Was he not with them?
It was a mistake to leave the Antinium alone; you never let your team get split up. They probably knew that.
He and the inn were done. If he came back, it’d be in twenty years to pay his respects. Erin Solstice had fought in the Floodplains, then gone to sea and done the dumbest thing imaginable: fight the entire Bloodtear Pirates’ armada. Two damn armadas and change. She’d gone down on her ship while the Halfseekers’ bodies were still unburied.
Roshal kidnapped her. She did it for Rabbiteater. That old woman had come for her, and Halrac had stood in her way. So, Seborn supposed that Griffon Hunt was also quits with her.
She owed them. But he wasn’t going to collect from a child, so he just…walked the harbortown. Not really thinking about the ship. He’d probably buy it. He had old friends at sea; he could scrape together a crew and find trustworthy people. Though getting to a Drowned City with a ship that couldn’t dive would be a trick…once you had a ship, you could get a second one more easily. Steal it, kill the crew, or just find one abandoned or hit by monsters or ill luck.
Provisions. Seborn snapped his fingers. He’d better check about those. Starving at sea was a bad way to go.
 
——
 
…Fish. Salted but slimy and packed into barrels mostly. Combine that with some hardtack bread that wouldn’t spoil and you’d be able to survive a while. When Seborn asked about the other vital component—fruits—the [Fishmonger] frowned.
“I reckon the best you’ll get is some forestfruit given we’re along the Vale Forest.”
“What the hell is a ‘forestfruit’? Never had one.”
“Oh, that’s whatever they can forage. Getting a bushel of that is all sorts of stuff. Berries, some bigger fruits—you’d be able to get it dried, and it’ll keep a while.”
“Noted, thanks. Got anything dried?”
Seborn bought a bit of fish on a stick he ate for breakfast as thanks for the information. He chewed it down, gulping more water from his flask. It wasn’t a fun meal, but it’d keep him going. Fruits would keep him and his crew from scurvy.
Buy the ship. Stock it up. Get a crew…right, he should ask about the drinking pubs. Look for recommendations, though no [Captain] would want to part with their good people. Seborn leaned against a wall as he stared blankly across the harbor.
He didn’t exactly see more Drowned Folk around. They kept to their own crews. You’d find the odd one who’d become a Drowned Person by chance in some sailing crews, but they weren’t always trusted. Often, a Drowned Person had odd qualities, and they were just a reminder of the oddities that lurked in the deep.
Humans and more Humans. It beat Centaurs. Or Selphids. Seborn remembered a Selphid crewmate who’d stunk to Rhir’s hells and begun to develop maggots on one voyage. Maybe [Storm Sailors]? But they’d have a real problem with [Pirates].
Wailant and he had gotten along, hadn’t they?
“You idiot. That’s because we were the only two of us on land. At sea, he and his mates would brawl with any Drowned Folk in a moment.”
He had to shake these landfolk instincts. Seborn shook his head, and then he saw someone new striding into the port. Someone just as out-of-place as he was, but far more obvious about it.
A half-Elf.
Seborn took note of her because she was truly a kid. She looked young, probably fourteen or fifteen? By the rules of half-Elves, that meant she was probably around…twenty-some years old. They were close enough to Humans until they reached adulthood, whereupon they slowed. Ceria looked to be in her early twenties, and she was sixty plus years old.
Seborn knew this because he’d had a teammate in the Halfseekers, Thornst. An [Archer] who’d died when Garen Redfang had turned on his team. Or they’d pushed him to it.
A dead half-Elf’s hand reaching across the ground for his bow, dried blood spilled across the floor. His guts hanging from his belly where one long slash had ended his life. 
Seborn blinked the image of Thornst away, and the rage. It had kept him going for years, kept him from sleeping or quitting. Drop it. Garen was dead. And…they’d gone for him first, or backed him into a wall. Three-on-one. Who had drawn their blades first? He would never know that. They were dead.
Drop it.
The point was, he knew more about half-Elves than most; other species just saw them as the long-lived magical beings most common to Terandria.
He watched the newcomer out of the corner of his eyes. Definitely new to a port. She cast around, staring, until a crew of [Loaders] cursed at her for being in the way. Then she leapt aside and hurried to the nearest ship to talk to the [Captain].
It was the [Captain] of the Half Mast. He turned, blinking at her, and heard her out for half a second before shaking his head. He pointed her to the other ships coming from the actual open sea, and off the girl went.
She had brown hair and a travelling tunic and britches. Not rich at all; half-Elves always got the mystique of being both magical and rich when in practice they were generally like everyone else. Everyone was more ordinary than you thought they were, even if they appeared strange. Seborn kept his eyes more on the crews of the ships than the girl, but her approaching each one in turn meant he saw her more than once.
He was earmarking a few likely candidates to poach when uproarious laughter came from one of the [Captains] the girl was approaching. The woman was patting the half-Elf on the head gently.
“You’d best turn around and go back home, lass! For that amount of coin, I’d think about taking you to the next port over at best! To charter a ship? Just hire a tugboat to get you there!”
She turned away dismissively, and the half-Elf sagged. Seborn’s eye caught her hand, and the [Rogue]’s Skill activated instantly.
[Estimate Wealth]. It looked like she had about sixteen silver coins and some coppers. By the weight of her purse, she was unlikely to have more than a few gold pieces—getting a ship to take you anywhere was indeed laughable at that price.
Moreover, it seemed like whatever she wanted wasn’t reasonable. Every [Captain] shook their heads at her.
“A sandbar? We’ll run aground! Look, buy passage south or go overland. Then hire a local craft. A rowboat or fishing ship. And before you ask, no, we’re bound north. Now clear the docks! We have business to be about!”
None of them were exactly friendly to an idiot asking stupid questions. The girl scurried away, and Seborn scratched at his chin.
“Right. I’ll need a rowboat too. Something small I can use if I want to move around unseen at night. One of those and some paint…”
He felt like he was almost ready to march with the [Merchant] over to the guild and start signing over all the gold when he saw someone detach themselves from the bored [Sailors] gossiping and waiting to get back to sea and follow the half-Elf.
Which, of course, Seborn hadn’t been waiting for because he hadn’t been paying attention to the idiot kid. It was just unsurprising, because…he’d had a thought.
“Heyo, lass! Aren’t you a fresh little thing? Need a ride on a ship? I reckon I could help with that if you fancied us getting acquainted!”
A [Sailor] with too much interest came over and tried to put an arm around the girl. Seborn watched, ordering another piece of fish from the [Fishmonger], who scowled as he saw the same thing.
“I’m not—”
Their conversation wasn’t quite audible, but Seborn saw her twist away. The [Sailor] kept offering until someone shouted.
“Leave off, Conrey! She’s no more’n a kid!”
He called back as a few jeers rose.
“She’s a half-Elf! Probably older’n me!”
That worked, because the other [Sailors] didn’t know how old she was. But she looked quite young. Seborn asked for a drink of water from the bucket the [Fishmonger] kept. He saw the young woman backing off, denying the advances of the [Sailor].
“You see that, Drowned Man? How old d’you reckon she is actually?”
The [Fishmonger] muttered, and Seborn glanced up.
“Twenty some. Still young. Best not to get involved. That fellow has friends.”
He nodded at the group of [Sailors] cheering their friend on. The [Fishmonger] eyed them and spat on the docks again. Seborn said nothing as the half-Elf, flustered, abandoned the harbor. The [Sailor] followed after. After a moment, the [Fishmonger] turned.
“She looks too young, though. Right?”
He blinked. The Drowned Man had vanished.
 
——
 
The [Sailor], whose name was probably Conrey, was strolling after the girl and still calling after her when he entered the main streets of the harbortown. She kept glancing over her shoulder as he picked up the pace, but you know, he should have been on the lookout.
It was a bad part of the city. Not that there was any definitive statistic on crime in this part of the harbortown of Litgren’s Bay, but, anecdotally, someone grabbing the [Sailor] and running his head into a wall seemed like it confirmed that bias.
He tried to swing a fist and kick at whomever had him, but two more meetings with the wall and his forehead and he was lying on his face. Seborn checked the [Sailor]’s skull wasn’t broken as he glanced around—no one had seen them yet.
He debated taking the man’s purse, and he was a [Rogue]; a common robbery made more sense. Plus…it meant this idiot was poorer. Killing him was out of the question, sadly.
Seborn kicked the fellow in the stomach and saw the body jerk into a ball, then slipped from the alleyway’s mouth into a shadow across the street. He popped out of a shadow of another street corner, pouring the coins into his moneybag. He tossed the empty purse over his shoulder and hit the half-Elf in the face.
She screamed and leapt away. Seborn whirled; she’d been hiding in the mouth of this street behind a bin filled with fishbones from a [Grocer].
“Sorry. I was just—using a Skill.”
She was flailing a wand around, and he ducked in case a spell came out, but the girl realized he wasn’t the [Sailor] following her and stared at him. Seborn glanced at the alley he’d come from. Then at her.
Damn.
He began striding away without a second word as a few more [Sailors] came up the street fast.
“Oi, Conrey! Conrey, where’d you go? Leave off the—where is the bastard?”
Not good. Seborn walked into the crowd and strode off. Time to find that [Merchant]. He was just at the Merchant’s Guild when the law caught up with him.
 
——
 
“Drowned Man! The Watch Captain wants a word!”
The [Merchant] turned from Seborn in faint alarm. The [Rogue] just sighed. He turned around and came face to face with a bored [Guardsman] in an ill-fitting uniform.
Right, the Watch. In the north, there were no Zevaras or Relcs. He eyed the Watch Captain who came sauntering up to him in a gleaming metal breastplate.
“What’s the matter?”
“Oh, nothing, nothing. You have a good day, Merchant, sir. I just need to speak with this fellow a second. Y’see, someone got mugged in an alleyway just an hour ago. Nasty business. Poor guy claims he never saw who did it.”
“And you want to talk to me because…?”
Everyone was staring at him. The Watch Captain eyed Seborn up and down. He noticed the blades Seborn was carrying.
“Adventurer, are you?”
“That’s right. Gold-rank.”
The Watch Captain hadn’t actually expected that. He hesitated, and a few of the [Guards] with him stirred. A touch uneasily? The Watch Captain licked his lips, suddenly smiling less wide.
“Right, well…someone said you were at the harbor right before this fellow got hurt. And some half-Elf. We’re looking for her too. You run into a [Sailor] back there? What’s your class?”
Seborn folded his arms.
“I can’t count how many [Sailors] I’ve run into today. I don’t recall any particular one. Why am I under suspicion?”
He hoped they didn’t have truth stones. The Watch Captain eyed Seborn’s face and then his clawed hand.
“In my professional experience, Drowned Man, it’s always good to investigate strangers when there’s trouble. I know everyone in this town, and they’re good folk mostly. So…what’s that class again?”
“[Faith Seeker].”
“What now?”
Seborn just sighed as the Watch Captain gave him a supercilious gaze. Of course. He was an idiot—in a bigger city, this probably wouldn’t have even been a blip on the radar. Muggings and fights were so common. But here? You wouldn’t get that many genuinely overseas ships, so everyone knew everyone, and all the crews were local…
“Look, if you’re going to accuse me of a crime, you’d better have evidence.”
“We’ve got a [Mage] who casts truth spells at the Mage’s Guild. C’mon over. She’ll just ask you if you did anything illegal in the last little bit.”
“You mean if I assaulted that [Sailor]. Because asking if I committed a crime in general isn’t allowed.”
The Watch Captain’s eyes narrowed as the [Merchant] glanced from Seborn to him.
“What’re you, some kind of law expert? If you didn’t do anything wrong, it doesn’t matter, right? I’m starting to think you did do something wrong. Right, lads?”
He cast around. The [Guards] nodded, but they were still eying Seborn, hands on their swords. Gold-rank scared them. Seborn really wished at this point he wasn’t guilty, because he’d probably enjoy getting marched over to the [Mage] just to see this idiot’s face.
Since he was actually guilty, he just gave up. Exaggeratedly slowly, Seborn raised his hands.
“I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, not some [Mugger]. Ask your stupid questions. [Merchant] Blemith, we’ll have to do this later. Apologies. Though if you wanted to ask that half-Elf questions, be my guest.”
He pointed, and the Watch Captain and everyone else spun. They saw an old woman walking by with a dog’s leash in hand.
“Halt! We have a question for—wait, she’s too old. It’s a young half-Elf, right?”
The Watch Captain turned to one of his men. The [Guard] squinted.
“That’s what they said. She’s ancient!”
The old woman stared at them. Then someone else pointed.
“Wait, she’s got no pointed ears. That’s old Rilenma!”
The Watch Captain rolled his eyes.
“You idiot. Come on with—”
He turned and growled at Seborn, or the place where Seborn had been. The Watch stared at the empty spot where the [Rogue] had been standing.
 
——
 
Seborn Sailwinds sighed as he jogged out of the town’s gates at speed.
Well, there went that ship.
 
——
 
Ship #15 — The Furious Rose
 
Five days later, Seborn was debating whether he could live with a pink hull. Red heartwood and pink cedar.
Pink.
This was a pleasure ship, a little sailing ship for some rich lady who’d passed on and had been, like Magnolia Reinhart, obsessed with the color.
It could work. He could tear out the cabin’s pink walls and carpet—a sure sign this wasn’t meant to be a seaworthy vessel since carpets got moldy fast—and the hull was a hull. Paintable.
The fact the ship was actually seaworthy showed that it had been loved and just not used that much. The [Clerk] letting him tour it kept glancing at the position of the sun in the sky.
“We have a few more bidders on this vessel, sir…?”
“Give me five more minutes. Why is your town in charge of this boat and not her heirs?”
“She was a widow, sir. No heirs. Passed on very suddenly after prolonged sickness. Yellow Rivers. Poor woman. She got cured, but she’d had it months.”
Seborn grunted.
And disinfect everything. He sighed.
“It’s not worth two thousand gold. But I can get you a direct payment from the Merchant’s Guild if you haggle on the price.”
“This is an enchanted ship, sir! It’s worth far more than that.”
Seborn half-smiled. He was just about to start haggling when he saw the Watch coming up the gangplank.
No. I’m way too far away for this. The [Clerk] turned.
“Officers? Everything well?”
The Watch Captain in this town was a piece of work. Instead of answering, he spun and flipped open a journal. A glowing quill began taking down his words; some kind of Skill.
“Watch Captain’s Log. Entry #4424. I approached the ship where this Drowned Man was sighted. A fellow matching the description sent via [Message] spell from Litgren’s Bay. He looked like a rough customer, half crab and all scowl. As I strode up the gangplank, I had a feeling we had our man.”
The rest of the [Guards] behind the Watch Captain were clearing their throats, peering at the ground, and doing everything but meeting Seborn’s eyes. The Drowned Man just looked at the [Clerk]. The nervous pencilpusher leaned over.
“That’s, uh, Watch Captain Remdish. He’s a bit of a character. I’m sure this isn’t more than a misunderstanding, Watch Captain?”
The Watch Captain stowed his journal with a flourish then came up the gangplank, as if nothing had happened. He had a truth stone hanging from a pendant.
“Not at all! Hello, Mister…?”
“Adventurer.”
“Adventurer…?”
Damn it. Seborn kept his face straight.
“Seborn Sailwinds.”
Now they had his name. The Watch Captain glanced as the truth stone shone white.
“Excellent. Could we ask you just a few questions?”
“Off the ship, sir? I do have another buyer—”
The [Clerk] protested, and the Watch Captain nodded. He walked Seborn down, very friendly.
“If you’d care to confirm you weren’t at Litgren’s Bay, we can let you go, sir.”
“I was at Litgren’s Bay, sadly.”
The rest of the [Guards] slightly tensed—then groaned as Captain Remdish whipped his journal out.
“He was from Litgren’s Bay! I pursued my line of questioning with all care and tact. My officers and I were surrounding the fellow in a classic diamond formation. This next moment might mean action and death—or nothing at all.”
They were standing in the street. Seborn looked right and left and saw the [Guards] around him giving him the side-eye. He raised a finger.
“Er, there’s a wagon coming our way.”
Remdish laughed and glanced at Seborn.
“He was trying to pull the oldest trick in the book on me! I was far too canny to fall for that. So I—hubwagh!”
The wagon hit him, and he went half under it. It was too tall to really squash him but the sound his intestines made as they were compressed by the impact didn’t sound great. The horrified wagon-owner stared down at the Watch Captain, who’d been the only person who didn’t step out of the way.
Seborn just backed away as everyone ran to the Watch Captain. Amazingly…he was still monologuing.
 
——
 
Ship #16 — The Windcleaver
 
It had black mold. All over the interior hull and beams.
Seborn was in his rooms in the inn, staring at a wall, when there was a flash of light. A pair of girls popped into existence.
“Hello, Seborn!”
Nanette Weishart and Mrsha du Marquin were dressed up and holding flowers. Seborn glanced at them.
“What?”
The two girls faltered, but put on their cutest smiles. Nanette waved her flowers.
“We’re doing a happy-day delivery! Bringing you cuteness and good cheer! How are you doing today?”
“I’m trying to buy a ship.”
Nanette posed with a cute smile. Seborn kept staring at the wall. After a moment, she glanced at Mrsha.
“You tell him. I don’t want to—okay, fine! Mister Seborn? What if we helped with the ship? The Wandering Inn has come into some money lately, and we owe you—”
Owe him. Seborn twitched slightly. He saw Moore’s empty eyes staring up at the skies. What remained of Ulinde’s body as Jelaqua knelt there.
“I don’t need gold. I have enough. Go away.”
The two girls eyed each other. Mrsha was writing and pulling at Nanette’s sleeve. The witch peered at Seborn.
“We have…lots of gold though, Seborn. If we could help or—”
He stopped listening. He just stared at the ceiling until she and Mrsha vanished.
Gold. As if he needed it.
As if he needed it. Then why was he going to sea…?
All the gold in the world wouldn’t do anything for him. Why did they even think there was a debt to be paid like that? He rolled over.
Couldn’t sleep.
Not for ages.
 
——
 
Ship #19 — Omens of You’re Under Arrest!
 
He never saw it coming. One second he was approaching the ship, the next, something hit him. Seborn dodged, reflexively, but the flash of magic still caught him, and the next thing he knew, someone was shouting.
“We’ve got another one! There, he’s running! How is he still…?”
Move. All his reflexes and levels meant that Seborn was already leaping into the furthest shadow he could find. Reposition—he used [Shadowstep] to burst out of a [Sailor]’s back and roll to the ground. His body was tingling, and his entire left side wasn’t working.
He still staggered up, cursing. Seborn began to run and saw a [Guard] pointing at him. But he seemed surprised by Seborn’s movements. What the hell—?
Something flew at him. Seborn thought it was the eyes of some gigantic beast until the red glow pulsed.
[Blur Leap]—he got out of range of the first pulse, but the second orb flew after him, and they were orbs, not eyes. He saw a burning red sphere halt in the air, pulse again, and the wave of magic hit him. Then a voice emanated from the brass orb that hung there, perfectly still.
“{[PARALYSIS SHOCKWAVE] SUCCESSFUL. LAWBREAKER ORB HAS APPREHENDED (87) CRIMINALS. ANOTHER STUNNING CREATION OF WISTRAM ACADEMY!}”
Seborn tried to raise his head as the [Guardsman] sauntered over. His entire body was tingling like it was asleep, and he could barely move, although that alone alarmed the [Guard]. Seborn wheezed as he tried to roll over and reach for a stamina potion.
“Oh, come on.”
 
——
 
It turned out that Archmage Eldavin was sending magic to whomever had the money for it. The port city of Treant’s Farewell was one of the major ones on the western coast, and they had money enough. And the fact that [Message] spells were now dirt cheap meant that all the cities were communicating criminals—the Lawbreaker Orbs apparently cast some kind of identification spell, then hit you if you matched their files. Even if you had anti-[Appraisal] rings, it’d suss out your name at the very least, disguises or not!
Seborn wasn’t told this himself, of course. He was sitting in the jail cell, fumbling with his manacles, and glaring daggers through the cell bars. The Watch Captain was, in fact, talking to a little Gnoll girl about all this.
“We’re ordering two more. They’re not good against seasoned criminals, but petty theft? Even a Gold-rank adventurer gets caught! Now, it appears this man is suspected of mugging some poor [Sailor] up north. Terrible for a Gold-ranker.”
He tsked, looking at Seborn with a huge frown, then brightened up.
“But it proves the orbs work! To tell the truth, I wasn’t sure about ‘em, but Wistram’s been pushing them hard, so Lady Reinwa Veltras thought it was worth trying. All this network-stuff with the criminals is their doing. Smart stuff, though I miss the old days…”
He seemed ready to wax nostalgic, and his audience was very attentive to his wisdom, insight, and positive qualities she clearly admired in him. The girl wrote energetically on a placard.
I would love to hear about your methods, Watch Captain Joffrey, and I deeply appreciate your forbearance! However, Adventurer Seborn is a very good friend of my inn, and we are very effulgent at the moment! Could we perhaps pay his fine?
She was smiling hugely at Seborn. He just waved her off, but she was determined. Joffrey hesitated.
“What a smart little child you are! Er, what does eff-ul-gent mean? It slips my mind at the moment.”
She provided an explanation, and he frowned.
“A fine is one thing, but the crime is still quite bad for a Gold-rank adventurer.”
Mrsha nodded rapidly.
Very true, Watch Captain! You are a man of probity—that means integrity—that means decency—that means you’re a good guy—but I did a bit of research when your [Guardswoman] told me of the incident! It would appear that Seborn might have beaten up a [Sailor]—who was trying to date someone very young. Less than twice my age. I’m eight.
The Watch Captain’s brows shot together as he did a bit of math, then shuddered.
“That wasn’t in his record! Are you sure?”
I interviewed the guy himself, which was gross, and some eyewitnesses on his crew. They don’t have [Message] spells, but I can swear to it!
Joffrey pulled at his lip.
“Well…that changes things. Let me just confirm this with the man himself, but I can drop those charges if that’s so. Thank you, Miss Mrsha, isn’t it? Also, is it true your inn sells ice cream covered with flies?”
Yep. Want some? I could maybe arrange some regular ice cream delivered specially to the brave officers of this city! Why don’t we just sort this little matter out first?
They were all smiles as they turned to Seborn’s cell. Mrsha was beaming at being able to help the Drowned Man…right up until she saw a pair of handcuffs hanging from the open door of the cell. The Watch Captain’s jaw dropped open in horror as Mrsha sagged.
Aw, come on.
 
——
 
They stopped trying to arrest him, at any rate. True, they tried the Tracking Orbs on him—twice—but he just blinded them with a cloth bag and a jar of black paint. Once he knew they were a threat, he evaded them then checked how hard they’d be to foil: not very for his level. His Level 30 [Shadowstep] Skill was one of his defining abilities, and they had trouble with that.
Still, the Watch gave up the chase too easily, and Seborn received a notification via [Message] scroll telling him his bounty was now cleared with the Watch in northern Izril.
The culprit wasn’t hard to guess. Seborn just glared at the girl when she found him stalking down the harbor.
“I don’t need your help. Leave me alone.”
She vanished, and Seborn glared at the passersby who stared at him until they looked elsewhere. Here, at least, there were more Drowned Folk. Plenty, in fact; Treant’s Farewell was a major harbor he thought he’d been to in his youth.
Fantastically large. Huge, long docks of wood cut from the Vale Forest that could let hundreds of ships berth here, big and small. This was a good place to check for ships, but it was too busy by half, even for the spring.
There was a snarl in the harbor, and crews were fighting on a pair of ships that had collided; an overworked [Harbormaster] was shouting expletives, and the cause was obvious as Seborn glanced down the heaving docks.
Ships stranded by the changing currents or headed to the New Lands, seeking ports of entry. Not only that; too many crews were also stranded and grumpy without Admiral Seagrass’ fleet. Too much unpredictability, which you would think would impoverish such cities, but not so.
There was opportunity to be had, like a crate of silk bolts that a pair of [Merchants] were haggling over.
“It’s a direct route from the Empire of Sands! There’s a way that runs across Chandrar now—I swear! I have another ship doing the return journey, but this is our first cargo. Think on it, silk you don’t get by way of the south! You could sell it for four times what I’m offering. It’s worth its weight in gold in Chandrar already with all the Stitch-folk…”
A [Cargo Captain] was haggling with the [Merchants], one of whom was wincing at the price. She held up a stern finger.
“Listen, my good man. I didn’t graduate from the Golden Gnoll’s training seminars by being a fool! You’re asking too much even if it is lower-price than the Zeresian route. Sell to me at a quarter off and you’ll make a profit.”
The [Captain] opened his mouth, and she waved a finger in his nose.
“Sell to me and I’ll give you a supply of coffee beans! That’s worth just as much to Chandrar, I’ll be bound. Nor will you be getting any save from Oteslia itself!”
“You’ve got a supply of it? Are you growing it?”
Both men turned to the woman, and the [Merchant] smiled.
“Nevermind my sources. Now, have we a deal? Or shall we talk over a cup of the stuff?”
Opportunity and strange ships not normal to the harbor; past them, a crew of Minotaurs was inspecting the [Shipwrights] bidding on their ship. It wasn’t hard to see why they needed repairs: a mast was cracked and they had huge dents in their ship. It was a miracle they’d made it to land, but their leader wasn’t happy.
“I need a [Shipwright] over Level 30 with accreditation. Anything to patch us until we get to the House of Minos. This isn’t regular battle-damage. We survived a Kraken attack. Small, but I suspect the structure of the ship is badly damaged. I—Maweil’s bones, is that a white Gnoll child? The white Gnoll child?”
Seborn stopped dreaming about buying a ship made by the famous House of Minos and whirled. A little figure hid behind one of the crates of silk, and the trio jumped. He pointed.
“Get lost, Mrsha!”
His shout drew every eye to him. Waylaid passengers, crew, [Captains] and buyers all stared as the girl’s ears drooped. She wrote glittering letters in the air.
Sorry. I was just curious about the harbor.
Then she vanished. Seborn Sailwinds gazed around and realized that any hope of him getting a ship was out for the moment; it was probably five kinds of bad luck to shout at a child Doombearer who vanished into thin air.
Or it just made you look like a bastard; the Minotaurs had all folded their arms, and one snorted at him.
“Shouting at children is poor form, Drowned Man.”
“You haven’t had to deal with her.”
Seborn snapped and whirled on his heel. There were other places he could buy ships. He’d head south and only come back if he couldn’t find one a day’s journey away. After a moment, one of the Minotaurs leaned over.
“Captain. Are disappearing spectral children normal in Izril? I’m astounded.”
The [Captain] whispered back.
“I as well. But it is important not to show we’re unblooded fools.”
He nodded at his crew, and that was probably why most of the seadogs and [Captains] tried to carry on like that was normal. Ghost girls? Seen ‘em all the time. Can’t swing a stick without hitting one. So you want us to take your cargo, where? Say, do I look feverish?
After a while, someone noticed a little white seagull scaring the shit out of all the other seagulls, sitting on the mast of one of the ships. The little girl gazed down at the busy harbor for a while, then waved and vanished.
Such things became stories for sailors at sea. But who was that Drowned Man? A rumor began floating around the harbor. That name…long forgotten on the tides. Returning.
 
——
 
Ship #20 — Grinning Paw
 
At least, that’s what he thought it read. Seborn didn’t know. He didn’t get any closer to the ship’s hull. It wasn’t so much moored at the docks as much as floating there, half-grounded by the waves.
A free ship. A big one too. Trading class. He stood on the hilltop, fiddling with his spyglass, and his skin crawled as he saw the ship…writhing. Seborn swept his spyglass down, across the village, or what remained of it.
“Insects.”
It wasn’t a huge settlement, barely more than a village with a bay. But nothing was alive down there that wasn’t an insect. At least…he thought so.
He’d been here for two hours, watching. The moment he’d felt an uneasy sensation in the back of his mind, he’d listened.
Seborn had no [Dangersense], but the feeling had been uncanny.
[Divine Intuition]. His [Faith Seeker] class at work. He’d have guessed something was wrong anyways the moment he saw the harbor.
Four ships unmoored, one out in the bay and half-sunk? Fishing ships, aside from the big one. All abandoned. The insects were harder to spot, but he could hear them when the wind died down.
Monsters? Or…he couldn’t tell, and he wasn’t getting closer to find out. Fighting swarms was hard work you had to be specialized for. They’d crawl all over you, and you couldn’t swing a sword through them; they’d drown you in bodies, crawl through your open mouth, bite you to pieces—
Seborn had his trustworthy daggers. They’d do spit against a swarm. But he did have other objects. A Potion of Blast would clear them out a tiny bit, but it wasn’t what he needed.
The cloak he wore was warded hard against projectiles and even blades. It had belonged to the late Wall Lord Dragial until his team had killed the Drake. If he pulled it over his body and covered his mouth, only his eyes would be vulnerable. Decent…but he’d need a weapon.
He had weapons besides his daggers. A metal staff that had belonged to the Wall Lord, then to Moore. And two wands.
Ulinde’s wands.
He’d taken them with him. An adventurer left none of their teammates’ gear. [Graverobbers] would just steal them. All three magical artifacts were meant for [Mages], but Seborn knew the staff could conjure a wall spell once a day and spray elements.
Use it to wall them off and blast with fire. Ulinde’s wands can shoot a [Fireball]. Not sure how much magic is left.
If he went in. There was no point. A ship filled with those insects was probably infested if they’d dug into the wood. Even without, it’d be a horror to clean or even use. No, there was no point going into that village.
No one could be alive in there. Unless they’d gotten into a cellar or basement and blockaded themselves in. If they had…he wasn’t sure how long the bugs had been here. How long could they live before they’d need to disperse for food? This was a disaster.
“Can’t be more than a few days. The ships would have been beached by now, even with anchors.”
He sat there. After a moment, his [Message] scroll buzzed. Seborn read it. Wrote.
 
Seborn Sailwinds: There is no estimating their numbers. Cleansing this many will require multiple teams with [Mages]. This is a Gold-rank threat.
Adventurer’s Guild, Invrisil: Confirmed. Are there any survivors?
Seborn Sailwinds: Can’t tell. Observing.
 
He sat there for a long while, writing back and forth. He was no madman. Going in there was suicide, and [Rogue] he might be, but he couldn’t evade the eyes and senses of that many bugs.
Besides, the Adventurer’s Guild had a Gold-rank team en-route already. And another moving to assist. They’d be here by nightfall. Five days…if you survived four days, you’d survive five.
He might have stayed awhile anyways, watching, but for movement down the road. Seborn glanced down from his ledge and leapt downwards, cursing.
“Bandit!”
The cry came from the [Driver] the moment Seborn appeared out of the carriage’s shadow. He flung himself out of the way as the horses began to gallop forwards.
“Halt, you idiots! I’m an adventurer! That settlement has been overrun! You’ll kill yourself if you go any further!”
The [Coachwoman] hesitated. She pulled her horses up and pointed a wand at him. It was an overnight carriage—Seborn held up his hands and the certificate he’d gotten from the Adventurer’s Guild.
“I am Gold-rank adventurer Seborn of the—Halfseekers. That village is destroyed. If you don’t believe me, you can see it from that hill. Insects have swarmed the place.”
The [Driver] was no fool. She wrote a [Message] into an emergency scroll on her belt and gazed around for signs of an ambush…but if he’d wanted to get her, he’d have hit her the moment she slowed. She clambered out as nervous faces poked against the windows. Passengers.
“I have to see it myself. Where’d you say…?”
A short scramble later and she turned dead white as she saw the swarms moving over the village.
“But we’re nowhere near a monster den like that! What is it? Antinium? Some roving nest?”
He shook his head. Most people would think it was Antinium.
“I think…it might be a sea-based attack.”
She gave him a look like he was crazy. He clarified.
“The Alchemist, Irurx. Shifthold. I’ve heard of him wiping out places like this. And he’s still alive to my knowledge. Did this village have any half-Elves in it?”
The [Driver] turned even paler and glanced down at her carriage. She licked her lips.
“I don’t—I don’t know. It’s just one of my routes, but it was mostly Human!”
“All it takes is one. Come on, your carriage isn’t safe. If they can smell or start roaming, they’ll go for us.”
He had concealment Skills like [Reduced Presence] and [Softfoot], but even Seborn felt uneasy. He rode on the side of the wagon, watching the road to the village as the [Driver] turned the horses around and took them—slowly—away, then galloped them until they were miles down the road.
“I’ve told the Adventurer’s Guild. Gold-rank teams are on the way. Keep moving and tell everyone on the road!”
He was relieved to see the [Coachwoman] nodding and that she hadn’t lost her cool. She was still pale, but she tapped the scroll at her belt.
“The Driver’s Guild is already aware and putting the word out. What about you? I can take you with me.”
He shook his head.
“I’m staying until the teams get here. Do you need anything else?”
She was telling him no, and he checked in the carriage. A family on a holiday trip, holding each other, a [Trader] with a briefcase babbling questions, and—he felt his heart lurch—
A young half-Elf with brown hair. She met his gaze, her jade-green eyes wide and scared. A kid.
“If you see another half-Elf at sea, don’t go near him. Go home.”
He looked her in the eyes, not really expecting a response from someone in shock. Seborn was thus surprised when she replied.
“I can’t.”
What did that mean? Seborn hesitated, but the coach was moving, so he leapt off.
It was a long, silent night as he sat there. Midway through, someone appeared, panting, rubbing sleep from her eyes.
Seborn, are you okay? I heard—
He gazed at Mrsha.
“Mrsha, go—”
No! I heard you were here!
He spoke very softly.
“Mrsha, go and get me Ishkr. Or if he’s not there…Calescent or someone. I need someone to walk down there and scout the village. I can’t.”
She stood there, confused, until she realized what he meant.
I can do it.
“No. Go get me Ishkr.”
She wavered, then ran off. Seborn Sailwinds waited until a bleary older Gnoll stumbled into frame.
“Seborn. What am I searching for? Survivors?”
He nodded.
“Don’t just check basements. Can you walk through walls…?”
“It’s limited. I’ve seen Erin do it. I’ll try.”
“Try cupboards. Closets. Anything you can seal. If you call out, you might hear something, but don’t get near them and make a sound, especially if they react to you.”
Ishkr nodded. He walked into the village, and Seborn trained his spyglass on the glowing Gnoll until he saw a wave of blackness rise and swirl around him. They separated after a while, and the Gnoll walked out of the cloud. Seborn kept his spyglass on the Gnoll as he moved slowly through the village.
Only when Ishkr reappeared did Seborn go to sleep. Briefly. Then he rose to meet the adventurers.
 
——
 
The first bar in Treant’s Farewell that Seborn came to was filled to the brim. [Sailors] drinking hard and whispering. Fights—but quick scraps.
Everyone had heard the news. There were more ships at the harbor than normal; they’d come ashore rather than sail the night.
Seborn was brushing at the bites slathered with a poultice that one of the Gold-rankers swore worked. It still itched, but it beat nothing.
“Velrusk Claw and a private seat.”
The [Innkeeper] barely blinked at Seborn. He seemed overworked as he jerked his head across the inn.
“You can have the first. For the other, it’s standing if you can’t find a seat. Hey, what’s that on your face? Sickness?”
“Bug bites. I’m an adventurer.”
Seborn thought about saying…then he just paid for his drink, a meal, and sat while he waited for it to be delivered. He didn’t like attention.
Jelaqua had always done it better. She’d make a scene. Confront that bastard in public. Sometimes, it went ill, but usually it didn’t. Her way was better—he was just the backup. Moore…Moore wouldn’t give up. He’d fret all day and make sure things were good. Or get angry, and then, well, that was pretty conclusive too.
Seborn couldn’t do that. He hated being the center of attention. He liked being the one with the drop on people because he was forgotten.
So how the hell are you going to be roaring commands over the deck? 
“There’s all kinds of [Captains].”
He muttered as he cast around for a place to sit. His legs hurt. He would have sat on the floor, but people were seated already. Seborn passed by a group of [Sailors] talking loudly and would have given up and found a corner when someone waved.
“Excuse me! Do you need a seat?”
Someone had gotten up, and before anyone could slide in, the young woman covered it and waved at him. Seborn sighed.
Pointed ears again.
He sat down, glowering at the young woman who flinched a bit, then determinedly smiled at him.
“I reckon I owe you for the warning back there. And maybe other things! Hello!”
“Thanks for the seat.”
The [Barmaid] found him and tossed a plate down—it was slightly undercooked fish with a sprinkling of beans on the side and some bread.
Poor fare given what he’d paid, but the inn was slammed and possibly running out of food. Seborn ate and saw the half-Elf chewing on much the same.
He was so hungry he didn’t say anything—until someone rose from the table opposite his.
“Hey there, I thought I smelled something fishy. Looks like a Drowned Man’s wandered into our drinking spot.”
Seborn sighed. There was a certain cadence to the talker’s voice, and not a friendly one at that. But traditional.
“[Storm Sailors].”
When a Drowned Pirate and a Storm Sailor met, they fought. It was tradition. Also tradition not to go to blood instantly—you gave each other lumps and no more. Seborn counted.
Eight of them, fuck. He doubted they’d be very polite once he took the first of them down. He half-rose and grimaced as he felt more bites under his armor.
“I’m not in the mood for a brawl, and the inn’s stuffed. Care to not follow tradition for once?”
He wasn’t very hopeful. The [Storm Sailor] who’d spotted him had a manticore on one bicep. He laughed as he eyed Seborn up and down.
“Afraid, are you, Drowned Man?”
“Bug-bitten. And I’m a landfolk adventurer. I haven’t crewed a ship in ten years, so I’m not really in the mood to crack heads tonight.”
Seborn snapped back. The [Storm Sailors] frowned at him, wondering if he was lying, but then the annoying girl piped up.
“He is an adventurer! He was on the road to the village that got eaten and stopped our carriage!”
All the voices in the room went silent, and Seborn glowered. He saw the [Innkeeper] glance up from the bar he was manning as his eyes focused on the Drowned Man’s bites. The [Storm Sailors] looked at each other. Instantly, the fight went out of them, and the first one sat. He took a huge drink from the tankard and wiped his mouth, then studied Seborn.
“Clinth? Give it to me straight, Drowned Man or adventurer or whoever th’ hell you are. What was it? Monsters or bugs? We heard a swarm…”
Conscious of every eye on him, Seborn spoke.
“I saw thousands of bugs. Most of them beetles of some kind. Fliers. There wasn’t anyone alive in there. I can’t say for sure what it was, but none of the local Gold-rank teams had heard of something like that. We think there might have been a half-Elf living in the village.”
A dead silence fell over all those from the sea and whispers from those who needed telling. The [Storm Sailors] all made the gesture where they spoke a word into their hands and threw it over their shoulders.
Irurx. The Mad Alchemist.
“Krakens take him. The entire Bloodtear Armada died at sea and the world’s cleaner for it, but they couldn’t take that thing with them?”
A female [Storm Sailor] groused. Seborn just stabbed at his fish, breaking up the bones. He saw the half-Elf glancing at him—then someone took his plate.
“Hey!”
“Here. Try this’n.”
The [Barmaid] was back, and she presented him with a lot more fish and a lot less bone. Seborn blinked at the fatter fillet and far more generous bread slathered with honey. It looked like the meal the [Innkeeper] might save for himself.
“I didn’t pay for this.”
“It’s on the house.”
“Hey, where’s ours?”
The [Storm Sailors] protested, staring at Seborn’s plate and their own empty ones. Seborn saw, out of the corner of his eye, the [Barmaid] gesturing at her face. They glanced at him.
He took a long sip from his mug.
 
——
 
The Drowned Man said nothing as the night wore on, but the drinks kept coming, and in time, the crowd did what they always did after great or terrible moments. They gossiped.
“He’s not the worst bastard on the seas.”
“Oh yeah? Name one worse living! Bloodyhands Rosech went down with his crew. Did you see him tearing [Knights] apart?”
“There’s Maxy—”
“Pah. The worst that happens is she skins you. On Shifthold, you might not die. Who’s worse than that?”
“Fisher Mary?”
Laughter from people sitting around the [Storm Sailors]’ table, but a sudden silence from them. That was the dichotomy tonight. Those that knew the sea and those that didn’t, who’d laugh at what they thought were tall tales.
Of course, the young half-Elf was a novice to anything sea related, but she was drinking with the rest, clearly rattled from her brush with death, however far removed. One of the [Barmaids] paused as she served more drinks, collecting coins from everyone but Seborn.
“Who’s that? She doesn’t sound so bad.”
One of the [Storm Sailors] made the gesture again.
“I’d slit my own throat before being taken alive by her. It’s ill luck to speak of them.”
He punched one of his friends, and she protested.
“At sea! We’re on land, and the worst has happened. The Fisher’s underseas, anyways. She preys on Drowned Folk. She’s one of them. Half…what’s the fish?”
“Angler. But not like Captain Rasea of the Illuminary. She catches you and melts you into her ship. But if she’s living or dead—that’s something he’d know.”
They glanced at Seborn, and the Drowned Man looked up. This felt like home, for all it was ill talk. Legends.
Seborn knew legends. Therrium had been obsessed with them. Sailwinds…Therrium had been a bastard’s son who’d worked his way up from nothing. He wanted to be a [Pirate Lord] of old, and his sons had been raised on such stories. Good and ill. They’d fancied themselves as being worthy of the tales. After nearly forty years of life, Seborn knew better.
“Mary’s alive. But she haunts the waters around Terandria’s coast, not these. She’s got a taste for Terandrian blueblood. You’re not going to beat Irurx with the living for nastiness.”
“Nor for being more dangerous. Was there anyone more deadly than Rosech? Half the crews I talk to say this is the age of [Pirates] now, but we just saw an entire group die hard. So are they back or not? Then again, with Seagrass gone, all the old trade routes are suddenly easy pickings.”
The [Storm Sailors] were speaking his language. Seborn found himself turning in his chair to talk to them as the young woman listened. She piped up.
“Um—! Everyone talks about [Pirate Lords], but [Pirates] don’t have [Lords], do they?”
The [Storm Sailors] laughed at her with the crowd, and she blushed, but one of them sat back expansively, adopting that knowing pose.
“Ah, that’s an old tale, girl. If you heard tell of it, well, there used to be [Pirate Kings] just like Goblin Kings.”
Someone splashed him with their drink.
“Hush your mouth with that talk, idiot! There’s such a thing as respect even for [Pirates]!”
The [Storm Sailor] swung a fist back, cursing.
“I’m just saying—now and then, you get [Pirate Lords], kid. Nasty ones, the likes of Rasea Zecrew or Admiral Rosech, but with the class. If there are enough, they fight it out, and then a [Pirate King] shows up. The last one was…”
He snapped his fingers, and Seborn spoke.
“Pirate King Thiete Stochlegre. Ruler of the 5 Tides. Almost seven, but Zeres got him.”
The [Storm Sailors] nodded, giving him longer looks. The half-Elf blinked.
“How dangerous was he?”
“Enough to sweep entire nations with his armies. Hah! That’s true! If you want to compare the worst ships today, then who else is feared at sea? Remember them [Strategists]? There was the House of Minos, but they don’t count…Zecrew everyone knows. She’s fit with the legends. She ran over the King of Destruction himself!”
Another [Storm Sailor] counted on her fingers.
“Seagrass was there, but now he’s the Empire of Sand’s dog. And he never was legendary, even with his giant Sea Serpents, was he? His crews were sharp, but they didn’t go up against Bloodtear for fun. No…wait, what about the Undersea Crews? There was Captain…Therrium?”
“Hah! That’s just a [Depth Captain]. Not like a real legend of tides.”
That got broad agreement from the seafolk, and Seborn grinned into his mug even as part of him protested. They began debating old stories, and once more, Seborn was sucked into it.
“Admiral Seagrass wasn’t good enough!? Right, then! Who in the last thousand years was worthy of the title? C’mon, you cocky bastard, cough up them names!”
“Shut it, Shanti. Just because you liked him—okay, fine. Uh—uh—”
“How about Captain Ghoulstrad?”
Everyone thought about it, and one of the [Storm Sailors] grinned and slapped poor Shanti on the shoulder.
“There’s a tale! Anyone know it? Captain Ghoulstrad—whatever he was named before, it’s lost to the tides. But there was a [Pirate Captain] deadlier’n most! He sank fifty ships a’fore he decided to make his mark. He tried to board a ship containing none other than the Archmage of Death himself. Archmage Chandler before he was called Az’kerash.”
The Izrilians shuddered, but all the seafolk grinned. They knew this one. The [Storm Sailor] drew a line across his throat.
“They fought an hour-long duel until his crew was dead around him, and the Archmage cut off his head. But—and they don’t say if this was intention or not—he wasn’t lying but a day before his corpse got up and walked away! Then sailed Captain Ghoulstrad himself, terror of the waters! He killed [Pirates] and [Storm Sailors] alike before they burned him and his ship to ash. Twenty-three years of terror alive and thirty more dead!”
“Legends of the tides! Top that!”
One of the [Storm Sailors] had one.
“How about Fingerbeard? [Pirate Lady], oh, four hundred years back? Made herself a beard of exactly what it sounds like.”
He waggled his fingers, and everyone winced. Someone else raised a hand.
“Was it just for her reputation or was she mad as the others?”
“Who can say? I heard it was ‘cause she heard all the famous [Pirates] of her day had ‘beard’ in their name. Goldbeard, Flamebeard, ‘n so on? So she decided to make her own.”
“Couldn’t she have used wool or something?”
Laughter. That was how they talked, though. ‘I heard’ about a woman four centuries dead. If they remembered you at sea, you were never truly that far gone.
“Who else? Who else?”
Seborn thought of recent history, and the name came from his mouth.
“Garlen the Explorer.”
“Ah.”
The [Storm Sailors] sighed like a chorus of children, eyes shining. The landfolk, the fools, were oblivious. They had to know, so Seborn told them.
“Didn’t you hear the Gnolls singing his name? He sailed the entire world on his ship. But so many can claim that. And like those before him, madness claims such [Captains]. Those that think they rule both the sea above and below eventually go to the last place of countless crews. The Last Tide. They sail over the edge of the world into the depths below. But Garlen the Explorer…he came back.”
“No.”
The girl was leaning over the table like everyone else. The [Innkeeper] demanded from his seat.
“What did he find? Did anyone say?”
Seborn waited a beat, then took a drink from his mug.
“He never said all of it. Only Gnolls would know, if he told even them. But his crew said that before he pulled them back up they fell for an hour into the depths, and the seas poured down with them until it was as if they were riding a wave into the darkness. And not once did they see the bottom.”
Everyone fell silent with that awed half-belief, half incredulity. Seborn himself wondered…was that a true story? The boy had believed it all, much like the young half-Elf sitting across from him.
They had to tell more stories after that. Landfolk knew their own legends and put their Named-ranks against the tales of sea, stories growing taller with each passing moment.
Even the young half-Elf tried her hand at it, though she didn’t have the technique down yet. You had to wait for a lull in the voices and have the knowing tone just right or you’d get laughed at. And the boldness—she stuttered, red-face.
“I, um, I have one! There was a half-Elf [Captain] named Inerrook! He once rescued a [Queen] of Desonis on his ship, and he dueled a [Pirate Lord] and won! They say he was never beaten in battle!”
There was laughter, and one of the [Storm Sailors] snorted.
“That’s it? M’girl, you need to give us a better yarn than that! Never beaten—probably because he never ran up against a real bastard! I’ve never been beaten in battle. Mark me down in the history books!”
“But—”
She was laughed down and sat, blushing from eartip to eartip. One of the [Storm Sailors] eyed her dourly.
“Half-Elves. Having the Mad Alchemist on your people’s bad enough, I’ll grant. But I’ve seen more than one of the special grown ships your folk sail. Too rich for anyone else’s blood. You can’t even trade in Gaiil-Drome without being an ‘Elfriend’. Must be nice to have your own city in the New Lands, eh?”
Every eye turned to her, and the half-Elf stiffened, then protested.
“I wouldn’t know. I grew up in a village.”
“Ah, a half-Elven village.”
“No, just a village. We don’t have any special magics or treasure.”
She sounded honestly offended, and the [Storm Sailor] hesitated but was unwilling to back down, so she muttered.
“Well…you have an in with them that do. Phaw, who’s got a better story? C’mon!”
Silence as everyone racked their brains for someone who hadn’t been mentioned. Seborn was fairly drunk, and words were escaping him. But he saw one of the landfolk raise her voice. A wobbling woman in her mid-fifties smiled with sudden insight.
“I’ve one. There’s a [Captain] who, they say, deals with Demons. A real monster of the sea. They say she married a Wall Lord, then divorced him. And that she can breathe blood ‘n fire. She did for an [Admiral] and a [Prince] and killed her way through everything that so much as looked at her. Friends with a Goblin Lord no less.”
Seborn was trying to think of who this was at first. Then it clicked with the ‘[Prince]’, and he put down his tankard. Everyone turned to the [Storm Sailors] and him, and one of the offended seafolk shouted back.
“You can’t claim her! That’s just tall tales—”
“Not the [Admiral] nor the [Prince]. What’s this about a Wall Lord?”
One of the other [Storm Sailors] was looking thoughtful. The others weren’t having it. But the Izrilians were all too ready to claim Dread Pirate Erin Solstice as their legend. Seborn wasn’t sure if he was going to clarify or object to the tales himself when one of the other guests spat.
“Weren’t there more bugs with her? Antinium? I wish the entire lot of them had drowned! Both that [Alchemist] and the damned bugs!”
Murmurs of agreement. The first speaker glared at the woman who’d brought Erin up.
“As for the Goblins, why can’t Wistram blow them to pieces? Just rain down spells on ‘em and rid the world of the rest of the lot!”
Typical sentiments. Seborn was used to hearing the same claptrap about Drowned Folk, but he hadn’t heard much of that since the incident in the Drake ports with the hangings.
Turns out the old man can make a point.
The speakers soured Seborn’s mood, but he was waving for a refill anyways. His hand had slipped and tossed his entire drink all over the poor man.
In the sudden silence, Seborn stood up. He snatched a tankard from the [Barmaid]’s tray as she fled backwards, and he spoke.
“Antinium aren’t the same as bugs. They’ve got more courage in one of their antennae than you loudmouths put together.”
“You’re defending Antinium, Drowned Man? On Izril’s shores?”
There was an ominous rumble in the too-quiet inn. The [Innkeeper] spoke loudly.
“Gold-rank adventurer! And he was at the village and cleared the bugs out—”
No one cared. They were drunk, upset, and Seborn calmly kicked his chair over.
“That’s right. You want to make something of it?”
A dozen men got up, probably friends of the fellow he’d splashed. Seborn just rolled his shoulders.
“I’m Seborn Sailwinds—”
He saw one of the [Storm Sailors] jerk in recognition.
“—a Halfseeker. Gold-rank. If you want to say nonsense to my face, go and try. Hundreds have tried, all at once. C’mon. Say it.”
This happened now and then. He was stumbling, looking at the fifty or so people pushing their chairs back. Or was it…twelve? No fear. Moore wouldn’t throw the first punch, but he’d clear them all out if Seborn started swinging, and Jelaqua was the best fistfighter he knew. He was surprised Garen hadn’t already thrown something at the idiot talking about Goblins.
“Stay there, Ulinde. Just keep behind…”
Seborn searched for the Selphid, but all he saw was some half-Elf staring at him wide-eyed. Then he realized he wasn’t with his team.
For a moment, it seemed as though the drunk confidence of the Drowned Man drained out of him. He lowered his head as the angry patrons stepped towards him. Then raised his head, and his crab eye shone bright.
“Come on, then. Come on until the last one falls—”
He made fists and beckoned. Took a step towards them, breathing like it was his last. Seborn took a step at the first idiot as his fist drew back and he reared back. Drunk. Idiot.
Seborn smirked, tripped over the chair, and hit the floor head-first.
 
——
 
Ship #21 — You Idiots, I Ought to Lash You to the Mainsail Oh Wait He’s Coming Around
 
Seborn’s head was aching, but amazingly, he wasn’t stomped to a pulp. He came around, dead drunk, as someone continued shouting.
They were definitely on a ship. More than that? The swinging lantern showed a bunch of [Storm Sailors] who looked roughed up but were pleased with themselves.
A man with a hat was pointing at the docks, where it looked like a brawl was going on. Sailors vs landfolk. Classic. He swung his head towards Seborn.
“Drowned, no less!”
“We couldn’t just abandon him, Capt’n! ‘Sides, the little lady got caught up in it.”
They pointed, and Seborn saw a familiar half-Elf getting her head bandaged up by one of the other [Storm Sailors]. He realized they’d carried them here.
“Thanks.”
“Classic night on the town, Drowned Man. Shame you didn’t get a few swings in.”
One winked at him. The [Captain] threw up his hands. He turned to Seborn with a growl.
“And who the hell are you? The Gold-rank adventurer who cleared that village? Or the son of a living legend?”
“He’s not that great. Am I on a ship?”
Seborn’s head lulled. The [Captain] paused, then spoke in that slow voice you used with drunk idiots.
“Yes, you’re on a ship.”
“It for sale?”
“…No!”
“Damn.”
Seborn passed out again.
 
——
 
Seborn was in a horrible mood the next day, beat up and bitten as he was—and with a killer hangover and no Hangover Potion in sight.
Even so, he put a good face on it, because he’d found a crew. Namely, the [Storm Sailors] from last night. They’d let him and the half-Elf kid slumber on the deck of their ship, and while she was gone before he woke up, he got to talking with them.
“Us hire on with you?”
It seemed ridiculous to them, and Seborn owned that it sounded like a joke. A Drowned Man [Pirate] hires a bunch of [Storm Sailors] and…
But he meant it.
“I’ve had stranger allies. How about it? I don’t need to go far. Nombernaught’s where I’m bound. I have a date with destiny.”
They gave each other surprised looks, and the female [Storm Sailor] who’d recognized his name leaned over.
“This wouldn’t happen to lead to us meeting Therrium Sailwinds himself? That’s more trouble than you could pay for.”
Seborn gave her a short smile.
“I wouldn’t be so stupid as to buy all that for a crew of eight. If you crewed with me to there, we’d find a second crew for a conversation or part ways. Either way, you’d see Nombernaught, and [Storm Sailors] can find a ship, Drowned Folk city or not.”
They eyed each other and murmured.
“We’ve got a ship already, but the [Captain] won’t pitch that many fits if we shove off, not in a big port. Say we do that—where’s the ship? Old Captain Tomerig won’t part with his ship for love or money.”
Well, that was a problem, but Seborn just glanced around.
“We’re at a harbor. Think you could help me find a ship that could take a crew of around a dozen or less?”
It’d be a small vessel, but if they got a good sailing one and just swung around the coast, they’d make it. The [Storm Sailors] seemed impressed by his daring too.
“You’re either mad to go that near the Hivelands or you actually do know them Antinium. Normally, you stay twenty miles offshore at least! I’ve heard of Wrymvr the Deathless striking ships even further.”
Seborn grinned.
“I think I’d be able to talk my way out if I had a chance.”
Now he was cooking with fire magicore. The Drowned Man had a ship within the hour.
 
Ship #22 — Shallowskipper
 
Nothing fancy, nothing crazy—just a sailing ship with good lines from an old [Fisherman] who sighed as Seborn paid for it. Maybe he was still drunk, but Seborn paid eight hundred and fifty gold pieces for it after barely a once-over with his new crew.
Gold-rank money. That alone convinced them to shift to his ship, and he watched them pull up the anchor and adjust the sails with the ease of professionals.
“You sure you want to sail out now, Captain? What about paperwork with the Merchant’s Guild and Captain’s Guild?”
Seborn snorted.
“Captain’s Guild? The Merchant’s Guild doesn’t need paperwork if I pay in gold, anyways. I’ll just take her out of the bay, see how she handles and how we work. If I like it, I’ll load up some goods, and we’ll be on our trip. Fruits. Got to have them.”
The [Storm Sailors] hesitated, but they had that to-the-winds caution of their kind, and they were also still probably drunk. So they were cheering as he led the ship out the bay.
Of course, the [Harbormaster] started shouting at him the moment he did that.
“Who the hell are you? You’re not Fisher Drilten!”
“He’s retired! I bought his ship!”
“You did? I don’t see your paperwork on my desk! Get back to harbor; we have ships coming in!”
“We’ll be out of your way in seconds!”
Landfolk. The [Harbormaster] was worried, rightly, about collisions, but Seborn could sail a ship with his eyes closed. He was taking them well away from the other ships, avoiding the ground—it’d be a foolish thing to run aground. He was grinning and waving at the [Harbormaster] when one of the [Storm Sailors] gulped.
“Uh, new Captain? You might want to haul to. Rhir’s hells. Is that what I think it is?”
He pointed, and Seborn glanced ahead. A ship coming into port was getting nearer, but…he squinted.
It was pretty big despite only being a blip on the horizon. And it was getting larger…fast. He swore under his breath as the other [Storm Sailors] stopped working and turned.
“Dead gods. That’s the Pride herself! Speak of legends!”
The Pride of the Wellfar was coming into harbor. And she was massive, one of the largest ships still sailing on the ocean today. Seborn relaxed.
“You idiots, for a second you had me thinking it was you-know-what. She’s probably here to investigate the village.”
It stood to reason. The [Storm Sailors] nodded soberly, but then stood to attention as they did before Treants or ships they loved. Even Seborn nodded at the ship; as a [Pirate], it scared him if it was against him, but they would keep this area safe from Irurx and his lot.
The Pride came towards the port so fast it made his ship look like it was standing still. He swore as he saw it turning.
“It’s too big to even fit in the docks! They’ll have to anchor up the harbor. Jelaqua’s mother’s tits, what a sight.”
Tens of thousands of tons of gleaming wood and attack-spells drawn into the frame of the ancient vessel like art. Hull-mounted magical artillery from eras of legends and, he’d heard, even interior gardens and wonders of the opulence and wealth of House Wellfar. This ship, along with their other naval craft, made one of the Five Families the force of the north.
In fact, he rather fancied he knew the current [Captain], if only by proxy. Wasn’t Gresaria Wellfar’s son, Etril Wellfar, the one who sailed it despite his youth? And she had come to The Wandering Inn and known Maviola El…
By proxy of their connection to Erin. Strange how he could do that to even famous people like the King of Destruction. Seborn had the craziest urge to wave at the ship and shout to see if Etril Wellfar recognized him. That’d be the way to impress his superstitious crew…but he didn’t want to look like an idiot.
So he sailed on as the Pride turned…and came right up alongside them. Too close, actually; their swell made Seborn swear and rock the smaller ship.
“Idiots can’t see us!”
He commented to one of the [Storm Sailors] whose name he hadn’t gotten yet. But the woman didn’t smile back.
“Er, Captain Sailwinds, she’s too close. And it seems like she’s cutting us off, not—”
Seborn saw the nose of the Pride turn and do just that and felt the first moment of trepidation. Then he saw a glowing beam of light shoot from one of the colored panels on the ship and focus on the hull of his sailing ship.
Attack spell. A very polite voice rang from above in the sudden, terrifying silence.
“House of Wellfar! We claim sovereignty over this area in joint protection with House Veltras! Shallowskipper, haul to! Captain and crew, please prepare for boarding!”
Everyone was frozen. Seborn raised his hands slowly, then lowered them; what could he do? There were over a hundred [Sailors] on the railings just eying him, and most had crossbows or wands.
Let alone the spells. The gleaming ship halted as a pair of anchors shot down and lashed themselves to his ship’s railing. A [Lightbridge] spell followed, and Seborn shouted up at the herald on the decks.
“What is this, some kind of cargo inspection? We’ve got none!”
Or were they that peeved he’d come out of the harbors when they were coming in? Then he heard the herald shout back.
“Merely a formality, Captain! Lord Etril Wellfar would like to see your paperwork for ownership of this vessel and your registration in the Captain’s Guild!”
Seborn was drunker than he thought. Because he knew better, but he still said it.
“My what?”
All the [Storm Sailors] turned to him, and in the sudden, long silence that ensued, Seborn remembered.
Right. He might be a veteran seadog of the Undersea Crews, but he’d never, actually, de-facto, been a [Captain] of his own and had to navigate landfolk ports. Therrium’s crews weren’t welcome there, so they’d send landing crafts at best.
Registration…his head began to pound before he saw the [Captain] come striding down the [Lightbridge], flanked by [Storm Sailors].
That was when he began to have a bad day again.
 
——
 
Lord Etril Wellfar was apologetic, and he did know Seborn Sailwinds. That was the one consolation, but it didn’t stop the [Rogue] from glaring so hard he might have left singe marks on Etril’s face.
“If it’s a vessel that sails in our waters, you must be a registered [Captain], Adventurer Seborn. There are no exceptions.”
“Not even for a sailing vessel that holds less than ten crew?”
Seborn was enraged as they came into port. Etril sighed.
“It’s not what House Wellfar normally cares about, but this is a new age, Seborn. If I may call you that. I know you’re friends with the inn that my mother liked—I’ve always meant to go.”
“The door’s open. Just go to Invrisil.”
Seborn refused to use it as leverage, and worse, he felt like it wouldn’t have changed things. Etril gave him a short smile.
“No time. We insist on this because former Bloodtear Pirates, Lord Seagrass’ ships, and a lot of colony-ships bound for the New Lands keep passing by our shores. The smallest vessels we search—and sink if we must. We’ve captured over five hundred of the Bloodtear Pirates already.”
“Really?”
For a second, Seborn was surprised. Etril shrugged.
“Every navy is patrolling the waters. We’ve put most of the ones we capture to the sword if they show any fight—the rest are conscripted.”
“Conscripted. Not murdered on sight?”
“It’s not the Wellfar way. In Chandrar, they’re [Slaves]. I hear Terandria’s executing every [Pirate] they find. Baleros does much the same. Conscription on our ships under blood oath until they serve their sentences. It’s one for life…but I feel like some might pay it off.”
He grimaced and shrugged. Seborn was surprised anyone would show mercy to the Bloodtear Pirates and said so. Etril just stared past him.
“It’s hard for any ship to want to turn down crew over Level 30, let alone Level 40. Or maybe it’s what they stole. I was surprised when my family voted that way. Some of the [Pirates] are touched by luck. Though whether they’re happier…you won’t find them on my ship. The Pride is too important for non-Wellfar to crew. In Chandrar, the stories are even more outlandish. Enchanted chains fell off some, and the [Pirates] just vanished.”
That sounded like more than magic to Seborn. Etril shivered, but the Drowned Man had more experience with this kind of thing. He clasped his hands together. Thought a prayer.
“So about my ship…”
Etril gave him an apologetic smile.
“You’ll have to register with the Captain’s Guild and secure papers before I can let you out of port. Your Gold-rank status might alleviate your ties with the Undersea Crews. But it could, ah, take some time to process.”
“This is ridiculous!”
Seborn snapped. He got to his feet to argue, and the [Lord] of House Wellfar stood. He was barefoot, tanned, and had an earring in one ear. He also had a short spear on his back. His mother’s son.
“I’d love to argue, Adventurer Seborn, but I can’t. We’re hunting Shifthold, and unless you had any insights to add from clearing the village, which I do respect, we must see if we can catch her. He’s hit more than one coastal village. That madman is the last great threat from the battle at sea aside from Maxy and some of the other [Pirate Captains]. I intend to end his legend for good.”
His eyes glinted, and Seborn Sailwinds stood there. Helpless to argue with that. And he was reminded of something he had known. He was not the main character of this story. Not among Therrium’s sons. Not as an adventurer.
Nor now.
 
——
 
The Drowned Man got his money back for the ship, at least. The old [Fisher] had had a change of heart when he’d seen Seborn sailing off with his vessel and had only been too glad to trade him.
The [Storm Sailors]…no. They’d have to rehire with their ships, and even if they got their old posts, it wasn’t a guarantee. Seborn let them have the gold he’d paid them, anyways.
“If you get your papers in order, say the word and we’ll be ready for that adventure, Captain! We, uh, wrote our names down and the ships we frequent for you.”
“Thank you.”
He managed that at least. But a black mood had overtaken the [Rogue]. He just sat on the docks and remembered something.
“There are those that the hand of fate catches. And there are those who have to jump and grab it. And there are those it lands on.”
For one moment, just for one moment, he’d felt like it had been lining up for him. Just like he’d seen it do for Erin, who was chosen, or Ryoka or the Horns…but it had ended like he should have known it would.
Fate did not choose him. Not Seborn, who had had to fight for everything. Who’d found his team and lost it. Lost it…when other teams had gone into worse moments and come out with nary a scratch.
Destiny did not love him. It shat on his dreams, and perhaps he deserved it for thinking it would change.
The Drowned Man got up and went to the Captain’s Guild. The [Receptionist] took down his details after charging a five-gold fee and then got to his affiliations. When she looked up the fact that he was Therrium Sailwinds’ son, she covered a laugh and pushed the coins back over the desk towards him.
He rented a room in an apartment and drank water, trying to get his hangover to vanish. Seborn sat down in his bed and realized he’d have to get to a harbor where Wellfar law didn’t apply. But Drake law had to be just as bad.
So I have to get a ship and buy it somewhere that’s not a big city. Once I do, any ship of the local law will think of mine like a true [Pirate]’s. I’m one regardless. I just thought I could change.
He lay down in his bed and curled up. After a moment, Seborn put his hands together.
The Free Antinium had taught him prayer. They said they believed in an idea: Heaven. And their prayers were in hope of it. In need of it—they believed in what might not be real. The impossible. But because it was what defined them, the hope and certainty and desire, their faith had worked miracles.
He…did not pray to their Heaven. Though he believed it could be real. A shining thing they deserved. Seborn prayed to something else.
If there was justice for those who did not belong, the lonely, those who needed help and had no one to turn to…he prayed to the feeling in his chest that he had felt when his team had ever mattered. That mattered more than the rush of glory or the thrill of gold.
Righteousness, perhaps, but not so petty a word. There was no dead god who could answer his prayers.
Not on the silly statue that Erin had commissioned. Not the woman of death, because she had nothing but the end. Nor the bearded man because there was no leader for the half-people. Nor even the God of the Lost; they wanted to be found. There was a people for them.
Nor dance or magic. The only one that might fit was the Goddess of Last Stands, but Seborn’s prayers did not belong to her either.
Because she was the Goddess of Last Stands. And the Halfseekers had never…dreamed of stopping.
Seborn’s faith was not a thing of great levels. It had only ever provided a few miracles, but it had led him where he was needed. To Nokha when Mrsha was in danger. Perhaps to the Village of the Dead where they were needed.
It had not saved his team. His prayer was to no one and nothing.
Certainly not the force that gave everyone levels and classes. Because even that did not give the lost children what they deserved. It just counted their suffering and rewarded that.
The Drowned Man closed his eyes. His lips moved. Then stopped. He turned his head.
“Bah.”
He went to sleep.
 
——
 
Six days later, Seborn Sailwinds was walking down the road towards a southern hamlet where he’d heard ships bigger than fishing vessels docked.
He was angry still. No one wanted to pick up a Drowned Man hitchhiker. He should have rented a horse, but hadn’t wanted to bother with the fuss. And he was sick to death of talking to people.
No [Captains] wanted to take him to Nombernaught. If any were headed to the New Lands, they were only bound for the northernmost tips where they’d let passengers off. Or Drake lands, even—he hadn’t accepted. He didn’t want to appear in Nombernaught like a pauper hitching a ride.
He didn’t want to go to that city and confront his father.
He didn’t know what he wanted.
He was just…unhappy.
As if his team had died or something. As if he had watched them die as a hundred thousand Draugr poured over the Floodplains and they had done the only thing they could do, would ever do, and the world had rewarded them with death when they deserved—those two deserved—to live.
A couple. A half-Giant re-learning to smile and a young Selphid who’d grown up on stories of them. Why not those two? Jelaqua was married. Why not the last half-Giant of Izril with a heart too big for his profession? Why a washed-up Drowned Man and not…
A dream. The [Sailors] in the inn had talked of legends, and Seborn had seen a hundred thousand Draugr conjured by a dead goddess and fought the Hag Queens in the snow as Drakes and Humans battled side-by-side.
A tale wilder than they would have believed. It felt like a dream. The Drowned Man shaded his eyes as he stared upwards at the blue sky.
Wondering if he’d wake up in the snow, covered with roses of his teammate’s blood.
The Drowned Man walking his lonely road passed by a white-furred girl who sat in the shade of some trees. He walked past her, but when she didn’t rise or follow him, he came back.
“I’m fine.”
Good.
Mrsha du Marquin didn’t raise her head. She appeared…small. She was sitting cross-legged, staring at her paws. As if the weight of the world were upon her shoulders. He scowled at her.
“Are you done?”
Yes, thank you. Sorry, I’m distracted.
She roused herself, looking around blankly. She followed him absently—fell off the dais. He almost laughed at that, but Mrsha just sat there, rubbing her nose. As if she were pondering something great and terrible.
“See you next week. Just so you know, you couldn’t buy me a ship anyways. I can’t get the paperwork, and I won’t. It’s impossible for someone like me.”
He snapped after the silence grew too long. The girl peered up at him. She said nothing. Just…gazed at him. For some reason, it bothered the [Rogue], so he turned his head.
“So thanks—for nothing.”
She nodded, and he felt more angry. He stomped along, and the girl halted. Then she wrote in the air.
I’m sorry, Seborn. I’ll do the right thing, I promise.
When he turned to ask what that meant—she was gone. The Drowned Man stood in the middle of the road, gazing at the place where she had been. Then he swore and stomped on.
 
——
 
The village was called Moodfut. Presumably ‘Mudfoot’ had been intended, but the apocryphal legend was that the founder had been so drunk he’d gotten it backwards.
Moodfut fit. Seborn was in a pet. He sat in the only pub they had in the entire damn mudhole. He’d been told that ships would come here to restock on the plentiful catches of the [Fishers], and it was bigger than most fishing villages, but he was just…annoyed.
Everyone was avoiding him. A Drowned Man with that kind of scowl didn’t exactly attract goodwill. Seborn was checking a map he carried around, glaring.
If he could get a fishing ship or something, it’d be probably two weeks of hard sailing—around the High Passes especially—to get to Nombernaught. Assuming his craft would even survive the places where Izril’s shores receded and the High Passes rose. It was not a riskless voyage.
And that was assuming he got a craft at all. Gold would buy a lot, but it was a suspicious thing to want to buy a ship like that. Plus, he’d heard that people were talking about some new damn coins—just his luck!
Worse…this area was remote, so there were no overnight carriages who stopped here unless he paid for one via a [Message] scroll. So if he found no ships here—Seborn’s fingers traced a route. It’d be two damn days to Riverfarm if they didn’t stop, and he knew they would unless he paid for a premium service.
All to go back to a stupid inn. Then at least he could go to Zeres.
“A damn circle of pointlessness.”
The Drowned Man threw down his map with disgust.
 
——
 
He wasn’t the only person in a bad mood in this village. Moodfut had a lot of [Fishers], and one of the [Fishmongers] who sold the stuff began screaming at someone with a huge basket.
“No, no! Not here! Put it around back and you’ll be paid—later! Shoo!”
She waved a fist and actually threw a fish’s head at a hunched figure covered in a cloak, who scurried around the back of her hut. Seborn eyed the figure. A few passersby seemed confused, but those in the know grimaced.
“Keep that out of sight. Milord’s likely to throw a fit if he sees it.”
Someone advised the [Fishmonger], and she shot back sourly.
“As soon as my husband’s leg is healed up, I intend to!”
What [Lord]? Seborn stopped following the cloaked figure who retreated towards the beach when he saw the ship.
“Huh. That’s no pleasure ship. That’s beautiful.”
A ship had come into harbor, properly made to boot. Sleek lines of a sailing ship told him this was closer to a passenger-ship than anything else, but the vessel seemed prepared for a fight as well as a speedy trip.
He was admiring the dark wood on the sides, trying to guess what it was.
“Balerosian hardwood maybe…?”
“Chandrarian, actually. Made in Medain. It seems someone in this little hamlet understands what they’re staring at.”
And who should stride up than a [Lord] in the flesh. He appeared very pleased with his ship, and he stood…with more wherewithal than Seborn expected. The Drowned Man had expected a spoiled brat with more money than sense, and he was certainly 90% right—but the [Lord] seemed more capable than Seborn expected.
With a sword, at least. He cast a dismissive glance over Seborn before fixing on his daggers.
“Sailor?”
“Adventurer. That’s your ship?”
“Lord. I am [Lord] Gilam Quellae.”
The young man informed Seborn, and the Halfseeker sighed. It was going to be one of those conversations.
“You must have a rich father.”
He stated it as a matter of fact, and Gilam’s eyes flashed. He put his hand on his sword’s hilt, and Seborn felt a brief warning.
But why? He chose his words more carefully as Gilam retorted.
“My father is indeed Lord Pellmia Quellae, the famous [Lord of Love and Wine].”
He grimaced as if his lips had soured on the class alone, then hurried on.
“But this ship is mine. I bought it all with my own gold. Not a scrap of it is my father’s money nor my family’s. In fact, they don’t even know I have it.”
His smug smile said he was telling the truth about it. Gilam pointed towards the ship—it wouldn’t hold more than a crew of thirty, and some fed-up looking [Sailors] were loading it full of provisions.
“She’s on her maiden voyage, though I intend to put her through her paces! Like most who enter my bed.”
Aaaaand Seborn was done with the conversation. However, Gilam seemed to think he wanted to know more after that.
“The wood comes from Medain, which got cuttings from the Claiven Earth. Chimicen Hardwood—and it was made by a [Shipbuilder] trained in the Pheislant docks. See the lines?”
“They’re good.”
Seborn hated saying that, but he bet the ship could take a ballista shot and at least remain intact. Lord Gilam scoffed.
“Beyond good. I have half a mind to visit the New Lands with some of my peers. With the right Jar of Wind spells…well, this is just the beginning. Now, is there anywhere to drink in this pisspot of a village?”
“Right there.”
Seborn jerked a thumb over his shoulder, and Gilam nodded.
“A shame I don’t practice my swordplay or I’d be interested in seeing how good you are, Drowned Man. Take care if you know any Undersea Crews—they’d best steer clear of my ship, especially with my friends on it!”
He laughed as he walked away, and Seborn grunted. Any Undersea Crew would be hanging his guts out in ten seconds.
He really wanted to steal that ship. He bet he could too, though sailing a ship that big alone wouldn’t be feasible. But that intuition Skill was warning him…
Seborn strode off. Mrsha hadn’t checked on him, and it had been two days. Of course, she only came by once a week, but every now and then, he saw her just appear and vanish when he glared at her.
He might as well just head out; it wasn’t like he’d ever have a chance to buy a fishing ship with that [Lord] around. If he didn’t scare off honest people, he might decide to take Wellfar law into his own hands.
At least Lord Gilam’s crew hated him. Seborn saw them coming up towards the pub as well, grousing.
It was two dozen [Sailors]. Not [Storm Sailors]; Seborn would have bet his friends and their like wouldn’t want to crew some [Lord]’s thrill-seeking vessel for all the gold. They looked like harbor trash, actually. Rough and ready and usually drunk.
“Bastard. If I have to bow and scrape just because he’s the son of House Quellae—”
“Shut up, he’s in the pub. If he hears you, he’ll backhand you too. You saw what he did to Moust when he went for his blade. Just shut it, and we’ll get a keg for his precious ship…then fill it with spit and rotgut tonight. Oi, watch it piss stains! Landfolk.”
They were taking their bad mood out on the villagers, so it was like a cascade of ill feeling. One kicked at the cloaked figure then recoiled.
“Eugh. What the hell is that—?”
Seborn was making tracks out of the village. He’d head up the road and see if he could hitchhike to a town. However, a commotion from the beach made him turn.
An angry [Fisher] was pursuing someone and having a rampaging argument as they came through the village. He was shouting.
“I’m not rowing you for three hours, three hours straight only to be asked to do another three for barely any coins! You already owe me the day’s profits—I’ll have the rest or I’ll have you run out of town as a [Thief]!”
“I don’t have any more—I paid you what you asked for! Leave me alone!”
A [Fisher] past his prime was chasing after a young woman. A familiar young woman. Seborn sighed. When he squeezed his eyes shut and opened them, she still had pointed ears.
The half-Elf with brown hair stopped running in the village as more people appeared, ready to block a [Thief] from getting away. Villages like these always had solidarity with their own. She whirled.
“I paid you a fair price!”
“You didn’t tell me you’d have me row across the shallows! Not upwind until my hands blistered! Then you tell me it’s the wrong one?”
“I only knew it vaguely! I’ve given you all the coin I have! Don’t try to make this more’n you think it is—you made a mistake, and so did I. We’re quits!”
She had an Izrilian accent, not like Ceria’s at all. The [Fisher] pointed a finger at her.
“Three more silver on what you paid me.”
“No! I’ve got none to give, and if you’re the sort who changes his prices after a deal, you’re the [Cheat]!”
She had a good point. Some of the villagers hesitated.
“Leave off Enlock. Just let the child go.”
“She’s a half-Elf, not some child! Look at her ears! She’s all tricks—for all I know, she was laughing at me the entire time!”
He pointed at her, and she reddened and almost covered her ears. But then she raised a finger.
“I’m warning ye. Don’t come near or I’ll—I’ll fight back!”
She waved a finger around vaguely. But she had no wand and only a belt dagger, and fool the man might be in many ways, yet he knew enough about magic not to be scared.
“Hah! I’ll have my coins—just what I’m owed—fairly as the Five Families are my witness. Hand them over!”
He advanced, and Seborn glanced around. What could he throw? Fishheads there…he wandered over to a basket and saw the hunched figure standing with the crowd. He made Seborn hesitate as he approached. A hooded head swung over, and a voice muttered so faintly only Seborn heard it.
“Dangerous. Don’t.”
Was that to Seborn or…? The Drowned Man saw the [Fisher] reach the half-Elf. She panicked like the amateur she was. Then she put her fingers together, aimed all of them at him, and shouted—
“[Stars of Menethyll]!”
Seborn’s head turned, and he saw a glittering diamond of light that shone like the celestial bodies above had come down to materialize before him. One shimmered into focus, shot forwards, and dissipated before it had gone even an inch.
The dust was fading into sparkling particles. Said particles hit [Fisher] Enlock in the chest. Said [Fisher] hit one of the [Fishmonger]’s stands. Then crashed down onto the ground.
Then there was silence. The panting girl was pouring with sweat as the villagers recoiled. Someone whispered.
“Dead gods. Half-Elven magic?”
Seborn knew it wasn’t that. The girl shook with overloaded mana circuits as the [Fisher] stirred. He wheezed.
“She spelled me. She—help!”
The girl turned to run, then puked all over herself. She fell to her hands and knees. Definitely mana-overloaded. An unnerved man raised a broom he was holding, and a Drowned Man caught the handle before it could hit her.
“Enough.”
The last Halfseeker of Izril said calmly.
 
——
 
It was never so easy to stop a forming lynch mob as at the start. Seborn was in luck; the [Fisher] hadn’t exactly made himself look good, and the girl seemed young. But he still had to pay for it.
He tossed down silver coins on the broken stall, then three down in front of the man.
“That should cover the injuries. He’s bruised, but nothing looks broken. Let’s get you to the beach so you can wash that off.”
He nodded at her soiled front. Some of the people protested.
“But she hit Enlock—”
“It’s a Tier 3 spell, and she barely cast it. I’m sure you’ve punched him harder. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer; it looks flashy, but it’s no [Valmira’s Comet].”
Lean on his rank. That always impressed them. Seborn flashed his daggers, unsheathed, in an unthreatening way and let Maughin’s mail armor shine under his Wyvern leather coat. He also thought to turn Dragial’s cloak inside out so they could see the finery.
Speak fast but deliberately, pay enough but not so much they thought there was gold to be had and get out of there. He was an old hand at this. So, Seborn hustled the girl down to the beach, and she was splashing seawater on her clothes before anyone could raise a larger fuss.
Ironically, the [Lord] helped by demanding service from the owner of the pub who’d gone outside. Which focused the ire of the village on him…and left Seborn time to talk to her.
He did not. He stood there, glaring at the sea, which remained so tantalizing close and so far. The half-Elf girl kept glancing at him.
“Ah owe you an apology. And thank you, sir. More than once, I think.”
Definitely an Izrilian accent. Seborn grunted.
“It’s fine. Just don’t cast flashy magic in public. He probably wouldn’t have hit you. Better to get them on your side than not.”
He kept staring. After a moment, the young woman cleared her throat.
“I suppose, after you and me meeting like this, it’s funny to see me again. Seems you and I are going the same way.”
“There’s only two ways up the coast. You see a lot of the same faces.”
This time, her eyes narrowed slightly, and her ears drooped. She wasn’t getting anything from him.
“I’m from Rhogit, all the way inland. Just south of Invrisil. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer…Seborn?”
“That might be my name. Well, see you.”
He turned on his heel. She called after his back.
“You helped me with that [Sailor] up north. Don’t ya want to know about the magic? That’s no Tier 3 spell. ‘Least, not one you’d know. If you help me, I’ll give you a bit of the treasure I’m searching for. I think you’re the most honest sort I’ve met, and I’m out of coin. But almost there!”
He would have been able to walk off just fine but for the ‘treasure’ comment. Seborn turned and strode over and poked her in the chest.
“Never say treasure in front of anyone unless you can keep it. Least of all seafolk. What’s to stop me from mugging you once you find it?”
She gave him a grin, revealing she had a missing tooth.
“Well, because I think you’re an honest man concerned with my wellbeing. My mom always said Gold-rankers were either gold-hungry bastards, killers-for-hire, or saints. One outta three is pretty good given what you’ve done already.”
He tried not to smile at that.
“You should have taken your mother’s advice. What about Named-rankers?”
“Eh, she says they’re either good crazy or sad crazy. ‘Sides, she isn’t that smart. She’s been divorced twice. My name’s Tissl Venleather.”
Not exactly a half-Elven name either. Seborn squinted at her.
“You’re too young to be on your own, even if you’re twenty.”
“Twenty-one, and I’ve got to be out here. I couldn’t stay.”
“It sounds to me as if your mother would be searching for you. Why isn’t she helping you with this important event?”
Too late, he wondered if she was dead. But Tissl just stuck out her chin. Her voice quavered dangerously.
“Because she didn’t want me to go. But I did that to her house and ran off.”
She nodded back where she’d cast the spell. Then she gave Seborn a pleading expression.
“Can you at least help me get to where I’m searching? It’s supposed to be just a mile offshore at most, and I know I’ve adjusted the maps right. Then at least I’ll know if I’m crazy.”
Seborn sighed. Dead gods damn it. The inn would have to wait. He’d known from the start when he saw her running up the village…once a Halfseeker, always a Halfseeker. The Drowned Man pointed grumpily.
“Let me rent a boat.”
 
——
 
Renting a boat was easy. Gold did wonders, especially if you paid probably more than the boat was worth. Seborn would get half of it back if he brought the boat back…after two hours of rowing, he was tempted to burn it when they were done.
“I’m starting to think the [Fisher] had a point.”
“I helped rowing! Want me to take over?”
“No. I’m Gold-rank. You’re a child.”
“I’m twenty-one! And that’s proper years lived. I’ve never seen a half-Elven village my entire life. I lived in Rhogit all my life—until recently. Plus, being Gold-ranked doesn’t mean you’re invincible. I bet your arms are hurting.”
They were, but Seborn was too stubborn to stop rowing. The problem was they were moving across a sandbar along the coast where the winds and tide meant that a sail wouldn’t really do the work. Tissl was using a map to figure out where they were—it was clear she didn’t have an exact idea, but she swore she’d ‘know it when she saw it’.
This was the stupidity that his team would have loved. For that, and that alone, Seborn did it. And because his arms hurt, he made conversation for once.
“You don’t know adventurers. Name another Gold-ranker you’ve ever talked to besides me.”
“The Horns of Hammerad. They quested in our village, you know, before they got famous.”
Seborn’s oars missed the water, and he slammed backwards.
“What? You didn’t meet them.”
They were the easiest team to lie about given their fame. Tissl looked indignant, as if this was an old argument.
“I did! They came to our village and smashed a bunch of Golems in our mines!”
“What kind of Golems? Earth?”
“Uh…no. More like cheap limestone. They were so crumbly half the lads thought they could take them on, but there were near thirty, so Ma told them not to. She paid the Horns and everything.”
That sounded like something Seborn had heard Pisces complaining about one time, but he wasn’t convinced.
“Anyone could claim that.”
“Oh yeah? Well, I know Captain Ceria has a magic scrying mirror. Hand-sized, made like a seashell. It flips open, and it’s got my mother’s name in it. She paid Captain Ceria with it.”
Seborn had seen that mirror. That convinced him; he lowered the oars for a second, panting.
“Your mother’s a half-Elf in some random village south of Invrisil?”
“Yep. She runs it. Her name’s Disabella. Well, it is right now. She said she changed it twice. Did Captain Ceria…mention her?”
“No, never.”
“Oh.”
Tissl looked disappointed, as if she’d hoped some random half-Elf Ceria had once met had become a defining part of Ceria’s life. After a moment, Seborn let her take the oars.
“So why did you run away from home?”
“I had to! She…didn’t want to let me go. Said I’d get killed or become famous. But I had to because I was chosen! Not really, but I was there, and someone has to fight. That’s what he said.”
“Who said?”
“The half-Elf who sent me here.”
“What’s his name?”
“Captain Etroc d’Anametis of The Bow of History.”
Seborn grunted.
“Pretentious name. Why’s he not here, then, and sending a child on this mission?”
“He’s dead.”
“When did he die after giving you your quest? Five seconds later?”
She shook her head.
“No, he said he died ‘round eight hundred years back. He was already dead when he met me.”
Silence. Seborn rubbed at his forehead.
“Dead gods damn it, Erin.”
“I’m not crazy!”
“I didn’t say that. Explain.”
 
——
 
Seborn knew this story. He’d heard it told, but he hadn’t…believed it. Funny, him not believing a tale like this when he believed in her despite it all. But he hadn’t seen it. Heard a few odd tales, but most people, including him, had put it from their minds.
Ghosts walking amongst the living. Delivering tales of a terrible war and leaving their legacy to whomever could find it.
In between trading off on the oars and consulting her maps, Tissl explained.
“He said he’d searched all over for a half-Elf who could inherit his will. He went to Ma, but she told him to stuff it. She’s tough. Then he went to my older brother, but he was married and had kids, so Captain Etroc said I’d have to do.”
“Flattering.”
“I know! He was really upset I wasn’t from a half-Elven settlement and it was just Mom and her kids. She’s the only half-Elf, aside from us. He said that if I failed, I should tell Gaiil-Drome. I asked him why he couldn’t just find some Gold-rank adventurer. And d’you know what he said? ‘My treasure should only be passed on to the worthy.’”
“So, his kind.”
“Yep! I called him racist. And he said—”
Her face fell.
“He said he was going to fight and die, now, and that whatever I did, he hoped it’d stop the wave coming to drown the continents. Then he vanished.”
Seborn shivered and said not a word. The war of the deadlands. Tissl went on after a moment.
“It took me ages to find this place on a map. I thought his descriptions made sense, but I looked and I looked, and there’s only a few places where the river runs to the sea and the cliffs border them like this.”
Seborn cast around.
“I don’t see any cliffs.”
She sighed loudly.
“That’s ‘cause I was using maps from now, not eight hundred years ago. These ones fell into the sea when the Nagas invaded during some Nagatine Empire. He gave me lots of other signs, and I had to ask everyone about what used to be here and then account for the land falling into the sea or getting built up. But I’m sure it’s here!”
She stabbed a finger as they moved in the shelter of a sandbar along the coast. Seborn craned his head around. The bay was running green and blue towards the fishing village, where it became a bit marshy, and he had to admit that was beautiful. In the distance, the Vale Forest began, trees that were taller than almost all he’d seen on land. Around them, ‘waves’ of sand poked out of the water, signs of curious tidal action. Pools of water contained creatures who survived until a tidal phase brought the oceans over them.
Nothing, in short, that made this place any more special than the rest. Maybe there were signs of collapsed cliffs to the north where he could see rocks overgrown with moss, but nothing…
Then Seborn Sailwinds cocked his head and gazed down into the water. Always a landman’s mistake to ignore. He glanced down, then up.
“Ah. Volcanic glass.”
“Obsidian.”
She smiled happily. The half-Elf girl closed her eyes.
“Where the Vale Forest meets the sea and fragments of molten stone glint as black as night’s shard by the ocean green.”
“He told it to you in a poem?”
“Yup. Sucks to memorize, so I wrote it down. He said that’s where he buried it. Should be close!”
The shards of obsidian were all over the sand, washed up over hundreds of years but still gleaming—signs of volcanic activity, though the actual volcano must have gone dormant long ago. Seborn stared about.
“What’s the sign of the actual treasure?”
“Well…he said that he buried it so deep even if the ground shook and stuff it wouldn’t matter, and no one would just wash it up by chance. Then he stabilized it with some fancy Chest of Holding—but to find the buggering thing, all you gotta do is find a bunch of clay!”
“Clay.”
She nodded energetically.
“Doesn’t show up on beaches much. He transmuted a huge amount of it, and so even if centuries pass, um…”
“It’d be there. Unless it was dug up by someone who was, I dunno, a potter.”
Tissl stared down at her hands, which did have blisters.
“He said there was a lot of it. Sometimes, I think I imagined him, but the spell he taught me still works. He said it was a legacy of Drakes. He said he was a hero.”
Seborn had a lot of opinions about heroes and people who thought of themselves as such, but he held his tongue. This girl had come far to fulfill a ghost’s promise. If it saved her more run-ins with people who’d do her ill…Moore would be wading around here all day.
“Alright, if we’re close, let’s hop out and look. You said you messed up earlier?”
“Yep. I confused starboard and port so we didn’t find the obsidian. Then he put up such a fuss…let’s check!”
They jumped onto the sandbars and searched. Seborn wandered about, hopping from shadow to shadow to avoid having to leap from sandbar to sandbar—Tissl just splashed about with all the energy of youth.
“I’m mostly Human on the inside. I dunno a thing about my culture or species…Mom told me I’d probably be welcomed if I went to Terandria, but I never wanted that! I didn’t even want to be an adventurer—well, until I met Captain Ceria. But she wasn’t that cool. All she and her team did was cough up dust and argue. They were fun, but not like later.”
She smiled at the memory. Seborn kicked around the ground, moving sand with his feet.
“Yep. Sounds like them. Adventuring isn’t glamorous. What will you do when you get the treasure?”
“Dunno. Sell it? Use it? I don’t know…give it to Gaiil-Drome? First I gotta know it’s real. Ma says my life might never be the same if I do this. I might die, or worse—”
“Become famous. She’s right, you know. It’s not pleasant.”
If she found one artifact above the grade of regular ones, she’d be set for life if she sold it. A dead [Captain]’s treasure? Seborn thought about the story she’d tried to tell.
If he had been that good…a half-Elven [Pirate] from back in the day, with real [Archmages] around, would have had treasure far beyond what you’d expect from even the likes of Therrium—and he had the best artifacts money could buy.
If I were an unscrupulous sort…damn. He was too old for this. Seborn sat down abruptly in the sand and bowed his head.
“I can’t go back to sea. I’m not cut out for a [Pirate]’s life. I’ve lost my edge. If I can’t mug you, I’m not going to hold an entire ship at knifepoint.”
Tissl peered at him.
“…Doesn’t seem like a problem to me.”
“It is if that’s the only thing you’ve got left as a dream.”
“Seems like a bad dream to me.”
“Yes. It is. Shut up. Did you even bring a shovel in all your packing?”
Tissl glared at him.
“Yes I did, Mister Adventurer So-and-so! I’ve a shovel and provisions—it’s only money I never had since I ran off!”
Seborn grunted.
“Good. Well…you might want to bring it over. I have one too, but I think we might be doing this a while.”
She blinked, then came over. He pointed and just over the sandbar, for about three hundred feet, was a swathe of bright yellow clay that almost camouflaged itself against the regular sand. Water lapped around it, and Seborn couldn’t guess how deep the deposit ran. Deep, if eight hundred years hadn’t seemed to leave a mark.
Tissl took one look at the clay and sighed.
“Tree rot or whatever the heck they say.”
 
——
 
No clue how deep, and no clue where to dig. Neither one was exactly happy as Seborn tested the clay with his shovel, which was enchanted.
“Good news. The clay’s hard as shit.”
Tissl eyed him balefully.
“We could get help or, I dunno, magic? Do you know any good [Geomancers]?”
“I knew a [Green Mage]. A teammate.”
“Oh, could you ask for h—”
“He’s dead.”
“I’m sorry.”
“You didn’t know him. It’s fine. How were you supposed to know?”
Seborn was embarrassed as he muttered a faint prayer, then began to dig, stepping on the shovel, levering the clay out, stepping on the shovel…Tissl gazed at him.
“You’re a Halfseeker, right? Someone was saying your team used to be famous.”
“We were.”
“And you had a Goblin in your team. The first…ever.”
“Not the first. Just the first in a long, long time. Look how it turned out.”
The statement bothered Seborn so much he had to stop and add after a moment.
“—It wasn’t all his fault.”
Why had they tried to take it from him without asking him, Jelaqua, and Moore?
Because they knew we might take his side, that’s why.
They were supposed to be a team. Garen had always been defensive, always lived as a hunted Goblin. What did they think would happen? If he had walked in and seen them over Garen’s corpse and they’d told him the Goblin had gone mad over the key, would he have believed it?
Damn it, Garen.
Here he was digging up treasure like some [Pirate], buried by an ancient ghost like all the stories. And all Seborn could think of was whether he should be on the road to the inn.
“After this, you should visit…The Wandering Inn. Maybe. It might kill you. Or they could hire you as a [Barmaid]. You’ll probably hit Level 30 in a year.”
Tissl was digging too, next to him.
“Really? No joking? I heard about that inn. I’m barely Level 11 as-is.”
“What class?”
“Eh…[Hedge Mage]. I can de-bug a field if you want. Or make your torch not go out for two days.”
“Useful on a ship, I suppose. There’s always vermin. And fuel is expensive. Not that you should be a [Pirate].”
“What? The ghost made it sound fun.”
Seborn snorted.
“All [Pirates] say it’s fun. It’s just work of a different kind. You think you can just roam around looking for adventure? Only Rasea Zecrew can do that, and only because her ship is the fastest in the world. Everyone else is picking up work between raiding ships. You do a bit of fishing here, you disassemble monster parts and sell them in this quadrant, and when you get your loot, you do a trading run to see where prices are best—assuming you know the markets.”
And you stayed in your area or risked confrontations with other ships, which could be too costly. Pick the wrong fight and you were losing coin, not gaining it.
Tissl sighed.
“You know how when you get older, all the things you thought were fun that adults did are actually boring and hard?”
“Yep.”
“I don’t think it’s true. Ma likes her life. I think you’re just a downer.”
He scowled at her. Seborn shoved the shovel deeper as they stood nearly shoulder-deep in the hole. Tissl was impressed but wary.
“You dig real fast with that shovel! And the bag of holding. Neat trick pouring all the clay out in one go.”
“My bag of holding is going to be filthy.”
“I appreciate it! But we’re this deep and the clay’s so wide…shouldn’t we try another spot? Then again, I dunno how we’ll find anything.”
She seemed so daunted by the scope of this last hurdle despite it all being like predicted. Seborn Sailwinds just grunted. He thrust the shovel down again, and the tink made Tissl glance up.
“Funny thing about being a dour adventurer. Sometimes you surprise people.”
Her eyes went round. Seborn hauled up another piece of dirt, and then he saw it. The treasure chest was…green.
Green like a plant still blooming, and the filigree was pale white-pink and shaped like a flower. It was big, too, larger than his torso. He levered it up with Tissl’s shaking hands, and she stared up at him.
“But how’d you know? Was it a Skill or…?”
“I prayed on it.”
He didn’t elaborate. Tissl was running her hands over the chest.
“He said that all you had to do was twist one of the pieces here and it’d open.”
“No locks? What was he, an idiot? It’s a neat trick, but I’d have it open in a second.”
“Well, he also said it’d explode in thorns and kill anyone in ten feet if you open it wrong.”
Seborn suddenly had a burning desire to stand away from the girl as she felt at the box. But he just tensed. Ten feet [Shadowleap] with someone else was hard, but…
Click. Seborn grabbed Tissl, teleported into the shadow of the boat—she flailed, then started laughing.
“It’s open, we’re not dead! Wait—”
She sat up.
“It’s open.”
Both she and Seborn peeked over the edge of the fishing boat. They exchanged a look, and then she ran over to the hole in the ground. Seborn walked over slower.
The hand of fate has never picked me. Sometimes, you have to reach up and grab it. But be careful because you can pull down everything with it.
He wasn’t sure if he was relieved or disappointed when he saw Tissl holding up a bundle of seaweed. Seborn squatted down and eyed the sticks and a clam’s shell piled up with the detritus in the chest. He tried to be gentle.
“Look, [Treasure Seeker]’s a class. Don’t take it too hard—something like this might have attracted anyone with the class for a thousand miles. And if he had enemies…one of his foes must have dug it back up and loaded it with this. What, did he die before he dug up his great fortune?”
She gazed up at him wordlessly and then lifted the seaweed in her arms. Tissl hesitated, then threw it around her shoulders. And the…cloak of seaweed swept around her arms and her tunic and shimmered. Seborn’s eyes widened as the ordinary seaweed flashed—
A doublet as green as leaves of Oteslia’s tree covered Tissl’s shoulders. The jacket was flowing with blooming plants, which glowed with magic, and she gasped as the coat fluttered in the sea breeze. Then she reached down.
The stick was a sword. It was always a sword—the sheathed longsword rose, and the dancing golden bell sang in the open air as the hilt, patterned in a floral basket hilt as well, caught the sun.
The Orichalcum blade sang in the air as she unsheathed it. It had that prismatic glow of magic, but the purple metal shone underneath the glow of its enchantments. Seborn sat down with a sigh.
He watched as another of fate’s children lifted the rest of the half-Elven [Captain]’s gear with trembling hands. She gaped up at him, and he spoke to her, not unkindly.
“Congratulations. Your life will never be the same.”
 
——
 
A fortune beyond a man’s dreams lay in a small fishing ship with only a half-Elven girl and a tired Drowned Man to protect them. Weapons to make a hero or villain out of whomever had the daring and ruthlessness to steal them.
Gilam Quellae, son of Pellmia Quellae and secret member of the Bloodfeast Raiders, that deadly group that could match any foe and who had provided him with the funds and training to achieve his ambitions, sat in the pub up the village.
He burped and thumped his chest a few times. Then belched.
“Damn, this is pigswill. Get me another tankard!”
He turned to wave for more service. His back was itching. He glanced at his chair, hoping it wasn’t giving him a rash or something.
The [Lord] continued drinking, oblivious.
 
——
 
“The Half Mast is a terrible name for a ship. Ill-fated. Sailors are a superstitious lot, it’s true, but even as a man of reason, I tend to believe in the same. If not for reasons of luck, then because such names almost make one want to do…this.”
The hefty, wooden mast of the rigger collapsed with a thunderous cracking of wood. The mainsail fell, dragging lines of rope and more of the sails down with it, but the crew never said a word as they watched their ship breaking.
Nor did the [Captain]. He stood like a man at attention, breathing in and out in shallow bursts. Not deep—if he did, the needle-claws might pierce through his stomach, and the cloaked figure who held him might then get…hungry.
He could see something moving beneath the hood. Layers of…mouth-pieces were all he could describe it as. A segmented mouth peeling back. The claws? Shaped like no beast on land or sea he had ever seen.
The speaker appeared more normal. Which made him all the more terrifying. The air was buzzing around the half-Elf as he nodded in satisfaction at the ship.
“There. Let that be a lesson to you, [Captain]. Now, to business.”
Captain Irurx of Shifthold smiled as his ship groaned around him. The decks scuttled. Insects were all over the crew. Running over them as they trembled. Feeling at their shut mouths, inspecting their ears…the taller figures were worse. They all had cloaks on.
Irurx was the only person aboard his ship. At least, the only…person…among his crew who still had levels. Or perhaps some of his crew still remembered being something, someone else.
Jord hoped not. The [Sailor] stood with the others, wondering if he had the courage or speed to go for his dagger. For himself. And if he failed, would he attract the half-Elf’s attention?
But he waited like they all did. Hoping…and the Mad Alchemist savored it. He tapped the [Captain]’s chest.
“Now, I am a reasonable half-Elf. I shall make you a deal, [Captain]. Misfortune has found your ill-named ship. We will not deny this. Will we?”
“No, sir.”
The [Captain]’s eyes flinched away as a centipede crawled down his chest. Irurx nodded.
“Some of your crew are, sadly, casualties of your encounter with a [Pirate]. But you and the others may go free, unharmed, if physically. If you can give me what I’m searching for. The way it works is simple. You drink this, and then you answer me.”
He produced a vial from his sleeves.
“A proper truth tonic. I don’t trust the spells. If you give me one, one of you goes free. If you can manage more, up to half your crew goes free. Very generous. The Bloodtear Pirates I sailed with left no survivors save for children and the pregnant.”
He turned, and the [Captain] was not looking at his crew. They were standing there as Irurx drew back, and now the whites of his eyes were showing.
“But that does depend on your memory. It has to be within my reach, Captain. I know you know what I’m seeking. Now tell me—how many half-Elves can you name? No one in a city counts. Something smaller. Where they’re going. If they’re only a few miles inland. I’m in a hurry. Drink up, [Captain].”
The [Alchemist] waited. He listened to the babbling, checked a watch he’d fashioned for himself. Nodded at his favorite crewmate, who extended what looked to a fool like claws. Just a bit. Then things grew clear. He nodded to himself.
“One will do. Set sail. Toss the good [Captain] onto his ship.”
The screaming began as the [Alchemist] set sail towards where a girl had been asking about. A very likely destination, wasn’t it?
Not far at all.

Interlude - Halfseekers (Pt. 5) (2025-09-16)

They never saw him coming. Those who sailed the sea or dwelled within sight of waves thought they knew the signs.
Red dawn. Birds fleeing the storm. Fish throwing themselves onto land. A fell breeze—superstitions and rituals to avert disaster. Many a brave man and woman boasted that they’d sailed through magical storms. He heard them laughing and gossiping about it.
“There we were, lashed to the railings, and the magical hurricane was blowing so hard the [Captain] feared the ship’d turn. Me? I’m drinking while the wind spits in my face.”
Brave [Storm Sailors] drinking deep and scarfing down cheap food in pubs. Young men boasting of the battles they had yet to win. Children and the desperate dreaming of freedom on the sea.
They told such outrageous tales.
‘I’ve braved a storm raging across the sea.’
‘I’ve looked a Kraken in the eyes and never flinched.’
‘I’ve sailed against enemy crew, blood in the water, salt in my eyes.’
Fine boasts. Worthy tales to tell, Irurx was sure. But he had never met anyone who boasted of him. Not that they could cross blades with him and live, nor that they had survived a meeting at sea.
He knew how many had lived, and the dead outnumbered them thousands to one.
The port city of Treant’s Farewell was busier than First Landing at the moment, with so many ships bound for the New Lands. His table was bumped into constantly by men and women unsteadily making their way to the privies.
The [Innkeeper] even apologized for it. The man who sat there, sipping from his cup and eating sparingly might be no nobleman, but he was the finest patron the inn had, and he’d paid and tipped well.
The half-Elf smiled briefly, but it never touched his eyes.
“I could take no offense from mere jostling, my dear [Innkeeper]. A haven in this port is welcome. Especially given the…news.”
The laughter died down around him a moment. Perhaps it was his voice. He dragged the eye to him, dressed in an old-fashioned doublet with a ruff around the collar like some gentleman from centuries past.
The way he sat, ate using the cheap wooden fork like it was a delicate instrument, could engender anger in people who thought he was looking down on them. His diction, posture, all spoke to something that you couldn’t imitate. Something learned, like aristocracy, but even older.
A half-Elf. A true half-Elf, who wore time like a mantle hung gently around his shoulders. The [Innkeeper] swallowed, then gestured out the window.
“So long as The Pride sails these waters, there’s naught to fear. Even without it, Treant’s Farewell can weather any amount of [Pirates], milord.”
He said that as reassurance. The half-Elf leaned forwards.
“Even that madman? Alchemist Irurx?”
Again, voices died down, and people shifted in their chairs. It was a welcome thing, actually. He had not been so famous for a while. Decades had passed where his name was nothing more than a tall tale or one of many [Pirates].
“Why, he’s just one man, milord. But let’s not spoil the drinks with such talk.”
The [Innkeeper] was choosing his words carefully. He was a superstitious man and a cautious one, which Irurx respected. The other drinkers—less so. One of the [Storm Sailors] was drunk on good coin; a Drowned Man had paid him well for a funny morning, and he was drinking before he shoved off to his next port.
“Hah! Shifthold herself could sail on the city and she’d sink before she got close to the docks! She’s one ship.”
Irurx turned in his seat, and his features brightened. He smiled, closed-mouthed, at the [Storm Sailor].
“Indeed, sir? Have you ever seen her at sea?”
The [Storm Sailor] scoffed loudly.
“What? No one sees that damn ship or talks of it. We’d turn and catch the wind if we spied so much as whiff of that infested hulk. But it’s still one ship.”
“Hush your mouth. A village is damned not thirty miles from here and you’re inviting ill luck.”
One of the other [Storm Sailors] punched her friend’s arm, but he was insistent.
“If the Pride caught her, she’d be sunk in five minutes. A [Pirate]’s still a [Pirate]. He might have sailed with the Bloodtear Pirates, that [Alchemist], but I heard a story before the Winter Solstice—the Siren of Storms ran the Madman straight out of her port. Didn’t you hear that one, fellow? You look like a fellow seadog.”
He invited the half-Elf, and Irurx swivelled in his seat.
“I do captain my own ship. But I confess, I know very few tales of Irurx. What do they say of him? Runsblud in Savere, yes?”
The [Storm Sailors] nodded, and though this was a risky topic, they were in a good mood from this morning. So they launched into the tale, talking over each other, adding embellishments, but the patrons listened attentively. Only a story and a bracing drink could chase the darkness on the sea’s edge from their minds on a night like this.
“Oh, that’s part of the Horns of Hammerad’s story? You know them?”
“Who does not these days?”
“Hah! True…they’re the only team on Izril’s shores that even seafolk hear of in ports these days. Back when I was a deckscrub, it was all about Chalence with Orchestra…so anyways, it was after the Horns of Hammerad raided the Village of the Dead. They say they broke a spell in the center of it which hurled them across the world.”
A [Barmaid] tapped the [Sailor] on the back of the head with a tankard.
“Everyone’s heard that, numbnuts. We saw it on scrying orbs. Get to it!”
Yet so few knew the truth. The half-Elf leaned back in his chair. The Village of the Dead was, as yet, unconquered. It had stopped producing undead, but no one had cleared it. Its secrets remained, and a part of him was tempted.
But he knew the risks better than most. So he let it slide.
“Right, so each one landed in a bad spot. The Antinium, Ksmvr, fell into the Kingdom of Golems, Illivere. The Silver Killer ended up in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The [Necromancer] got caught by Roshal—and he’d have done better to slit his wrists. But the half-Elf, Ceria…uh…”
“Springwalker.”
“Right. She appeared in Savere. And then she met the Siren, and—”
“Wrong.”
The [Storm Sailor] stopped, affronted. Every eye turned back to Irurx. He took a sip from some ale. Contrary to his dignified appearance, he quite liked ale. Wine made one pretentious at times. It was fit for some moments, but disliking ale as common was silly. He lifted his finger.
“First, she landed in a village in Chandrar. They nursed her back to health, and she repaid them. For you see, whether by luck or fate, she had appeared in the path of one of the Horns’ enemies. An Adult Creler and its nest.”
Everyone shivered, for he had invoked another terror on land and sea. Irurx put down his mug.
“She killed it. With the Siren’s help, but it was already a frozen block of ice by the time the Siren finished the job. That was how they met. A lone half-Elf who re-earned her title. Hell’s Warden.”
His tone was so melodic. His eyes a curious reddish-green subtly mixing together. And his hair…
Was grey. Thus, he was truly old, but few understood what that meant in a half-Elf. The [Storm Sailor] grumbled.
“I never heard that. You sound like you know the tale better’n us. Why don’t you tell us about the Alchemist, then?”
“I don’t know what was said about that part. I apologize; please continue.”
They did, describing how Ceria had tricked her way into the Siren’s good graces and survived the dangers of a [Pirate] port, which was being challenged by the Bloodtear Pirates; another fated meeting given how it had all turned out.
“The Writhing Alchemist and the [Pirates] in one place. Before the Winter Solstice, of course. Fitting, ain’t it?”
“Almost as if they had been meeting in private before that ill-fated day.”
Irurx commented. One of the patrons gaped at him, agog by the idea. He leaned over the table, as fascinated as everyone else as he rested his hands together.
“How was he bested? I do know that the famous Ceria Springwalker did meet him, briefly. But no one was privy to that conversation, and to my knowledge, she has not spoken of it.”
The [Storm Sailors] had to get their stories straight. They whispered, then their spokesman grinned at Irurx.
“Well, even the walls in the Siren’s Rest have ears. Stands to reason—the Siren herself was curious. Because, before the Winter Solstice, again, everyone knew of him. One of them old legends on the sea. Only half-Elves live as long as he. But he was ‘just’ feared, not the man with the highest bounty on the seas.”
“Five hundred and sixty thousand, nine hundred and twenty-three gold pieces. Dead. There have been higher.”
Irurx smiled. The [Storm Sailor] eyed him.
“Not that I can remember. It makes Rasea Zecrew’s bounty of eighty thousand look like nothing. You could buy an armada and crew and have change left over for that!”
“A small armada, perhaps. I recall a certain [Captain] was worth more in his time. Captain Ghoulstrad was worth over 1.2 million before he was killed. A bounty set by none other than the Archmage of Death, who found him personally offensive and felt responsible for his reign of terror.”
The patrons in this inn had heard the tale of Ghoulstrad just last night. They eyed each other, then focused on the half-Elf. The [Storm Sailor] mouthed at Irurx.
“You…recall that? How old…?”
Irurx flicked his finger and produced a handkerchief.
“Back to that meeting with Captain Ceria. What did she do or say? How did she escape Shifthold? The Alchemist of Change is famous, I believe, for leaving few victims to ever tell their tales. Those who have gazed into Shifthold’s heart, why, I think less than twenty such individuals have ever managed such a feat and lived. Ever.”
There was a strange atmosphere in the air. The [Innkeeper] was polishing a mug, which he did while he surveyed the room. Last night had seen fights and rowdiness, then a drag-out bar fight that had engulfed the entire wharf. They were no less drunk tonight, especially with the Pride disgorging thousands of its own sailors to fill the city.
But no one was fighting. Everyone sat upright, almost as if they were at attention. They spoke quietly, if at all. Listening. Like an audience.
His eyes flicked to the half-Elf again. A lodestone drawn to a strange planet, who turned his head and smiled at the [Innkeeper]. The man nearly dropped his mug and caught it. He swore as he leaned over, then stopped.
Had he seen something poking out from under the half-Elf’s robes? Like the leg of a very, very large spider? No. It must have been his imagination.
The storytellers were having trouble too. The big man with tattoos of a Kraken on one shoulder had to keep lubricating his throat with drink. It kept getting dry.
“Right, well…everyone knows how it happened. She tricked him. That’s her class. The Ice Squirrel got her name raining down ice on the Bloodtear Pirates. So—she seduces him. That’s what I heard. Got under his guard. He’s obsessed with half-Elves. Hates ‘em. He’ll kill a ship just for one half-Elf. But she did it. That’s why she’s one of the Horns of Hammerad. They’re all mad. They found the Crossroads of Izril first, slew an Adult Creler—they stay at that inn with the crazy [Innkeeper]—hells, we actually know someone who knows her.”
He tried to throw in a boast here, and the half-Elf blinked.
“You don’t say? Who, perchance?”
The [Sailor] licked his chapped lips.
“None other than Seborn Sailwinds. I was on his ship just this morning—his team’s quested with the Horns. So…yeah.”
He couldn’t figure out how to bridge the gap into making that more impressive than just knowing someone who had met Ceria. But the half-Elf seemed fascinated by that.
“How interesting. Indeed, Ceria Springwalker is famed these days. But she is still a half-Elf, whom he hunts. So why would Captain Irurx let her live?”
The [Storm Sailor] kept glancing at Irurx. One of the [Barmaids] hesitated as she brought a drink over. She put it down and smiled at him, and he offered her a gold coin. She waved it off—backed up a step.
“Marvin? I’m going home for tonight. I’ve got to check on my daughter.”
She whispered to the [Innkeeper]. He opened his mouth to say this was rush hour. Then closed it.
“Why don’t you do that. Take Shally with you.”
One of the other [Barmaids] turned, confused. Then she felt her coworker put her hand on her shoulder. The [Innkeeper] stayed put. Listening as the [Storm Sailor] rasped.
“Why…? Well—he’s mad. Mad as a loon. They burned him a long, long time ago. He lived in some Terandrian half-Elven village, but he was crazy even back then. He was working with bugs. So all the half-Elves decided he was mad and burned him alive. Only, it didn’t kill him. I don’t get how you mess up a burning.”
He tried to grin, and Irurx brushed a finger across the smooth skin of his face.
He still dreamt of the flames. They’d burned everything. His laboratory, his great works. Everything in the name of purity.
The village was failing. You would have starved or been wiped out decades ago but for me. Too focused on purity of crops to eat anything lesser. We had an eighty-foot Yellat you refused to eat while you starved the young. Who cared if it thought deeper than trees?
I have harmed no one with my experiments. Only used what I had to hand. That which you decry as sacrilege is merely dead flesh. You have set my children to the torch. Which one of us is the real monster?
No Potions of Flame Resistance. They were too clever for that. They set him ablaze and watched him die. Until he was covered by ashes and embers. They’d burnt him until his skin was black and not a single piece of flesh was visible.
No tricks. No feat of alchemy or even spite. The half-Elf sipped at his drink as his lips twitched, as if something was under his smooth, pale skin.
“He was simply too high-level to die to mere flames. So that’s what is said, is it? He was…lonely. And she tricked him. How?”
One of the female [Storm Sailors] took over for her friend. He had gone strangely silent, staring at Irurx’s face. She lowered her voice.
“I hear she lured him into thinking she’d marry him. Or join his crew. Then she tied him up as he was drunk. Or—something like that. Not that she gave him a night to remember. Not that thing.”
She shuddered. Irurx tapped his lips.
“She had a Relic. A terribly dangerous one she wears still. Perhaps he was frightened of that? But why, out of all half-Elves, would she attract his eyes?”
One of the non-[Sailor] patrons felt like this was his moment to add his scintillating wit to the conversation. Which showed he was not reading the room. He leaned over to Irurx, serious.
“She’s hot? The King of Medain married her, y’know. I’d take a night with her.”
Irurx half-twisted in his seat. And he actually laughed with amusement. It was a bit too loud, too boisterous. There were all kinds of laughs, but this one somehow drowned out the other laughs in the room. As if it were the only one that mattered. The only one that could exist.
“Beauty is an aphrodisiac indeed, sir. I had heard the King of Medain ‘married’ her. That is a lie.”
“What? He’s got a statue and everything. And documents. Her and the Silver Killer. You saying you know better?”
The man looked affronted at having his facts questioned given the tall tales of tonight. Irurx pushed his drink back. His eyes glittered.
“I would bet my ship upon it. Though you are correct: I have not been to Medain since the ‘marriage’ was announced. Perhaps I should to confirm the truth.”
“You must have a good ship. Trade currents are all mixed up with the New Lands.”
One of the [Storm Sailors] commented slowly. The big man with the Kraken’s tattoo was just gazing at Irurx, and the woman next to him had put down her drink. The half-Elf sat back.
“I may. So it was love that tamed the madman. I see. How…accurate, really. There is no way for gossip to know the truth of that conversation, and yet it is so accurate—the power of classes? Or just the nature of people?”
Another of the [Storm Sailors] was losing her appetite for this story. She snapped at him.
“Hoi, fellow, you sound like you know the truth. Either spill it or stop bragging!”
Someone kicked her. She began to throw a punch, then caught the silence engulfing table after table at last. And now, the [Innkeeper] was looking to the door.
If you shouted for a [Guardsman], one might come. If you screamed, screamed like a stabbing or shouted murder, that would get them, if not as fast as you needed. A patrol would arrive for that. But it had never occurred to the [Innkeeper] how to rouse more than that. He wondered if a man could scream that loud.
As if thinking of that, the [Barmaids] who’d been hurrying to leave went for the back doors. One gasped—backed up. Marvin spun.
A tall figure engulfed entirely in a hood of grey was standing there, face shrouded by a mask, like the ones that the Players of Celum wore on stage. A smiling man, features exaggerated.
He was broad enough to fill the doorway. He—if it was a he—didn’t move. The figure just stood there, and the front doors had a shadow behind them too. And now…the half-Elf was speaking.
“To my knowledge, the Twisted Alchemist is a picky man. Hate defines him. Love is an idea so old to him it has escaped his book of recipes. If there were any seed from which it could bloom, it would be curiosity. Fascination. That circlet that Ceria Springwalker wears does curious things to her mind. It has an effect which he might have thought meant they’d be—kindred spirits. You see, they come from the same kind of place. True half-Elven villages. It was more than a passing coincidence. The Village of the Spring is older than even the one he hailed from. It has its roots in the Hundred Kingdoms of Terandria, in the founding of Erribathe. It is that old.”
“So what? She’s no [Lady] like the [Princess] of Erribathe. But she is hot. Seen her statue? Nude. I can respect a [King] who puts that kind of thing up.”
The idiot sitting next to Irurx cast around. He was, perhaps, hoping for a cheer or a few ‘yeahs’ from the lads. He wondered why everyone was so…quiet. The [Storm Sailors] had stopped drinking. Irurx’s head turned. The hand the other diner was drinking with began to shake uncontrollably.
“Royalty. There is no bloodline older than the memory of half-Elves. It matters not at all to most of us. As half-Elves reckon such things, you could say she is royalty of a kind. Trapped in that miserable place so many crave. Passing centuries without change. So few of us have ever lived that damned life. And she left. She left—and those who do leave have always become individuals who mattered. So perhaps that’s why she charmed him. Why she might still be the one person who can behold Shifthold’s truths and not flinch. Only—”
The half-Elf paused, staring at nothing.
“She neither flinched or rejoiced in it. He expected one or the other. That was what was so hurtful. The labor of centuries and it did not even stir her frozen heart. It was simply not to her tastes. Perhaps that was the biggest blow to his ego. It should—does it not matter?”
He looked around. No one answered him. The [Alchemist] shook his head.
“Ah. I see the conversation of equals has ended. Brave sailors, I do appreciate swapping tales this night. I had not heard the one about Irurx. But then—I have not been to port in five months. It has been a long voyage at sea.”
The half-Elf stood from his table. The inn’s guests leaned back as a shadow opened the doors. One of his crew. The [Storm Sailors]’ knuckles were white on their mugs.
“H-how the hell did you get into port? Can’t be. You’re just having a laugh at us. The Pride’s just in the bay.”
One whispered. They stared out the window, and Irurx smiled at the young woman. They were all young to him.
“All the wonderful magical sensing items on the Pride of the Wellfar are indeed complex. And a true expert finds countermeasures for such things. But I’ve found, in my long years, it pays to have the right paperwork. A man may read the ink and see the stamps and never focus on the face. Mostly, though? I think it’s the stories.”
He drew his travelling cloak around him in a swirl of wet fabric. Then he pointed a finger at the [Storm Sailors].
“If you think to see Shifthold at sea and turn tail and run, you make the mistake of all green [Sailors], young man. From Drowned Ships to Bloodtear Pirates—they look so innocent. Until that flag waves high, you’d never know her from any other ship.”
“But her hull’s black, and she buzzes. The crew. The bugs—”
The man sitting in his chair sounded like he was pleading. The [Alchemist] just sighed.
“Have you ever found a nest hidden behind a wall? Insects hide. But then, those are the tricks of the trade. A drink in a pub and a meeting of sea’s children is traditional. We drink, and we boast. You, who survived a magical hurricane, I salute you!”
He swept the mug up and hoisted it into the air. Drank before their horrified eyes. And grinned. Then he wiped his mouth and dug his fingers into the side of his face. Into his flesh—and pulled pieces of it away.
He was burned underneath. Some gagged, and now a moan was rising from the others. But the half-Elf just planted a foot on his chair.
“Here is my boast: I have sailed the waters deep longer than I have stood upon land. A hundred and seventy years following the tides. A little less than half that, now, in a village that never aged. I have dueled Zelkyr’s children as he hid in his cabin. I have seen Dragons fly. I have seen Dragons die. And I am young as legends reckon such things. In my prime.”
He paused.
“I dye my hair.”
Every eye fixed upon his hair, and the half-Elf turned. He nodded at the [Innkeeper] standing against the wall.
“It was a pleasant night, Innkeeper Marvin. I tarried here a moment longer than I needed; your inn is a respite to my bones. I trust you shall level. Thank you for aiding me; I had feared I would have to search for hours.”
Marvin didn’t know what he meant. Then he remembered the half-Elf asking about one of his kin who’d been here. As any worried half-Elf might. And Marvin had assured him that she’d gone…
South.
He turned dead white, and his mouth opened, but no words came out. The Alchemist was walking towards the doors. His two bodyguards followed him, and one of the [Storm Sailors] half-rose.
She had a throwing dagger in hand. He was right there. An entire city was around them and the Pride at the docks. There was never a better moment to rid the world of a monster. If she just—
She froze in place. Irurx had turned back. His eye fixed her, and she sat back slowly. Then the half-Elf smiled.
“Traditions are important, even to terrible men and women. Without them, we are nothing but common murderers and brigands. I would not assail a sailor at port without cause.”
They wanted to believe him. The eight [Storm Sailors] sat there as Irurx strode to the door. He put a hand on the doorframe and glanced back.
“Just to clear the record—tell those you meet that I am still quite, quite enamoured by the Ice Squirrel. She is levelling. And I am now thinking of grander things. I rather fancy that we shall meet again. I am looking forwards to it. But a point of clarity?”
He lifted a finger, and his eyes found the place where he had been sitting. The man now frozen and shaking like the others.
“She is not married. The High King of Medain may think he is above being called to account for his lies. I find that notion amusing. Should he spirit Ceria away with his might and wealth and lock her in a tower—”
He grinned.
“…I have the heart of a [Knight]. At least one. I took umbrage to that comment. Do forgive me.”
Thus saying, he swept a bow to them, theatrically, and then turned. In a moment, he was gone into the rains outside. Even so, it took ten seconds or more before someone moved.
One of the [Storm Sailors] lurched upright; she and her friends began to speak in a rush.
“That was—”
“Was that real?”
“Had to have been him. I’ve never been more scared in—”
“Someone call the Watch.”
“Krakens take the Watch! Get out there and tell anyone on the streets. Wake the Pride! Shifthold is docked! Or near enough—they can catch him!”
“You idiot, if he sees you—”
Voices rose. Someone ran out the back doors—more were just sinking to their knees, hugging each other. Marvin the [Innkeeper] was staring at the golden coins on the table where Irurx had left them. He was afraid to even go near them.
The [Storm Sailors] were making for the doors, beginning to shout.
“Up, up you curs and sea’s teeth! Up; [Pirates] stalk the streets! The Alchemist! Sound the alarm! He’s here! He’s heeeeeere—”
The merriment from outside, like a distant paradise, didn’t turn to alarm right away. Confusion, denial…everything was so slow. One of the women was vaulting a table, cutlass in hand, when she turned her head.
Someone was sitting in his chair, having a panic attack. He was clutching at his chest, twitching—the man who’d been mouthing off to Irurx about Ceria’s attractiveness. He was probably just relieved to be al—
He was frothing at the mouth. The [Storm Sailor] turned in slow motion. She saw the man jerk up, and his eyes rolled back in his head.
“Wait—”
A pair of mandibles burst out of his chest. Then a row of spines exploded out of his back, blood and flesh hanging from the gleaming chitin. Something inside the man, wearing his skin, chittered. It leapt forwards as the first scream arose. The [Storm Sailor] swung her cutlass, shouting, and the inn erupted into chaos.
“Run!”
Marvin leapt through his own windows without stopping to unlatch the shutters. He was no fit man; he’d never vaulted an obstacle, but he burst through the window and was on the street and running as if he were a [Gymnast], his staff behind him. In the inn, the screaming horror was fighting the [Storm Sailors].
—And on the streets, the merriment had turned to dread. Yells were coming from elsewhere. At first Marvin thought they were cries of alarm. But then he heard more too-high-pitched shrieks. Coming from other restaurants. Places where you…ate. Without a care in the world.
The Pride. He ran towards the harbor and docks before realizing that Shifthold was there too. But when he came to the port…the [Innkeeper] halted.
The ships.
The ships were burning. Trade ships and military ones. The House of Wellfar’s vessels. They were going up in flames, covered with some kind of jelly that burned brighter than belief. Marvin shielded his eyes. And he saw, in the distance, that glorious ship, the Pride of the Wellfar?
It was covered in spider’s webs. Like a spider the size of a hill had climbed all over it.
The [Alchemist] had planted a trap. The Pride was flashing with spells burning through the clinging webs, and the webs weren’t sticking properly to the decks; he must have launched something at it. But every other ship hadn’t had the barrier spells to block the pyrophoric liquid.
They burned, and a single ordinary trading ship was sailing out of the harbor. Job done. Now there was no ship that could follow it. Marvin saw the brown, ordinary wooden planks ripple like a living thing shivering, and then they flipped and became black, shiny, like a bug’s shell. Shifthold shivered, then swam out of the harbor under the moonlight.
That [Alchemist] stood on the decks, humming to himself as he waved at the Pride engulfed in his webs. He’d bought that particular recipe, which could stymie even a legendary ship like that, from a delightful woman.
A Spider. They all knew each other, though he had to admit, he didn’t really care for her. She was too distant and removed. She’d had her fill of vengeances and mortal concerns. He was still entangled.
If there was anything he wanted, Irurx mused…it would be for someone to have shared the triumph of the war at sea with. Someone who could pass the eternities with him. Someone who understood.
His crew said nothing as they stood at their posts. He had never created one with a voice or the mind to speak words he cared to hear, nor longed to.
“I’m changing. Metamorphosis never ends.”
Grand visions. But, Irurx reflected—there was always time for one more half-Elf.
He had all kinds of new ideas for this one.
 
——
 
“Come on, come on. Why are you not bothering me today of all days?”
Morning. Seborn Sailwinds was praying. He knew he might not really be in the spirit of praying since he was more willing a single thing to happen, not casting his hopes to the winds. But he reckoned that it wasn’t that big an ask, was it?
All he needed was for a little Gnoll girl to pop up and his day would be set. After all that she’d been following him around, was it that improbable?
He was having a rough morning anyways. His back hurt. His head hurt from lying on a hard surface, and salt was flecked on his face and armor.
Sleeping in the sea breeze did that. When he sat up in the little fishing boat, he rubbed at his back, swearing. His companion was little better off.
Tissl had tried to lay down on the long lengths of wood that were seats, but the bow in her back as she lay there made Seborn wince. Literally no back support; she’d have the worst spinal pain he could imagine when she woke.
He debated waking her, but figured she’d probably been unable to sleep. Spinal agony or less sleep? Kids were more resilient.
Seborn stretched, then sat on the edge of the boat they’d dragged onto the largest sandbar to sleep. Water was rushing up and would soon be in danger of flooding the boat, but it was fine. They had loaded their cargo on the boat; now all they had to do was row it back to the village.
The fact that they hadn’t and had spent the night in the open was because Seborn would rather have stabbed himself than leave a chest filled with Relic-class treasures in that village. He’d made that clear to Tissl, and she seemed to get the stakes.
“Relic-class gear. She can wear most of it—but she’ll stand out like a sore thumb if she does, and she can’t protect any of it. The chest might guard it, but it’ll kill a lot of idiots and everything around it even if she locks it all up. You can probably just grab the chest too. What a mess.”
He was shaving his Human half with a straight razor as he sat there, using salt water and a bit of shaving cream. It was really good incentive not to cut yourself. Seborn sighed.
“Damn it, Erin. Why me?”
He knew the answer, if it was some kind of divine providence that had brought him here. Or the spirit of the Halfseekers…it had to be him. If this kid had dug up the treasure with that idiot [Fisherman], he’d likely as not have killed her there and then or demanded half of it. Or gotten everyone in the village to jump her.
Tissl was sharp enough as kids went, but still too young. But she’d just dug up a haul of treasure that made the best Gold-ranker gear look like a Bronze-ranker’s soiled loincloth. She was now someone who mattered…until she got killed or her possessions were taken from her.
“Come on, Mrsha. Just one call. If we get an overnight carriage, we could be there in two days.”
Maybe they should have done that, but they’d been tired from digging and checking there wasn’t more treasure and then testing the items. Normally, Seborn wouldn’t touch a Relic he didn’t know unless he had to, but Tissl had sworn it was safe…once she’d claimed them properly. And who could resist? This wasn’t just one item, it was gear from a legend.
He’d gotten over his head, he had to admit. Now Seborn was stressed.
“What’s in two days? Somewhere I’m going or are you slitting my throat in the night like you kept threatening everyone including my Ma would do?”
Tissl was awake. She sat up as Seborn flicked the razor back into its sheath. He glanced at her.
“Pretending to be asleep?”
She rubbed at her back.
“Nah. My back was killing me.”
“Start learning to pretend. Most people fall for it. You can hear a lot that way.”
She flopped against the boat’s edges and dug around in her bag of holding. She had a lot of very dry travel rations—mostly Yellat mash with other bits of dried meat and vegetables or nuts attached. Seborn offered her a honeycake, and she began to gobble it down.
“You giving me advice? I thought you were gonna come with me.”
“I’m no babysitter. I’ll take you to somewhere that can help you. The Wandering Inn. There you’ll have to learn, and learn fast. Tell no one what you have. Not even them; some of that lot have loose lips. If you can survive a year, then you’ll be able to call yourself a Named-rank adventurer. And then you’ll be damned, just like your Mother said.”
Poor kid. Tissl stopped chewing.
“Like Lehra Ruinstrider? You sure you’re not just blowing Dreamleaf up my bum? We don’t know what the gear does…”
“You have an Orichalcum sword. It cut my Wyvern leather gear like it wasn’t there. That alone makes you high Gold-rank.”
“What, so I’m just a Named-rank because I picked up the right Relic? That’s not very fair. Is that all Lehra did?”
Seborn shook his head, slightly amused by her indignation on behalf of Named-rank adventurers.
“No. I said after a year you’re Named-rank. By then, you’ll either have lost it or prove you can keep hold of what you’ve got.”
“Oh. How good are my odds?”
Seborn was staring ahead. He knew other people who’d found a huge haul at sea, like Wil Kallinad, and tried to make a name for themselves. True, [Pirates] were bloody, but…all of them had ended up with throats cut and their treasures taken.
“You’ll be okay if you use your head. We just have to get you to the inn in one piece.”
That was the goal. She cocked her head, frowning.
“That’s not hard, is it? We could hitch a wagon and—”
“No. I’m not even convinced we go back to the village. But they’ll be searching for this boat—I think we do that. But getting the chest to a place where we can get picked up by an overnight carriage is the hard part. I need to trust the driver or we disguise the chest somehow.”
“Aren’t you making Giants out of Goblins?”
“That chest looks valuable. It doesn’t radiate magic, which is one thing, but anyone can tell what you’ve found. And all it takes is one person who thinks you’re worth the effort. Never take chances you don’t have to.”
“So? We just toss it in that bag of holding that was in there and—oh—”
She’d figured out the flaw in her plan. Seborn nodded.
“Rule of adventuring: never put a Bag of Holding inside another Bag of Holding. Same for chests. There’s no way for us to transport it except by hand. That’s probably why the half-Elf left it there. Was it something he was going to pick up or…?”
He was suddenly very curious about Captain Etroc d’Anametis, the famous half-Elf. Tissl shook her head.
“He said it was so he could pass it on since he was retiring when he put it there. Seems like he never found anyone worthy of it.”
“No one ever tugged at his heartstrings enough? No darling grandchildren or relatives? No lover?”
“Uh. He said he died in a brothel, so I think he didn’t really have many of those.”
Seborn grinned. There was a bit of gritty realism along with all the fantastic gear. He kept munching on breakfast.
“You need to show your face in the village. I really don’t want to do it, but we might leave the chest somewhere hidden. Show our faces—then meet up, grab the chest, haul to the meetup point, and go. How good are you at acting?”
“I can probably not say I found a ton of treasure.”
Tissl was shivering, and he knew she’d give it away; she had that awestruck expression he himself was having to keep from his face or movements. But the [Rogue] had to keep her safe.
Keep her safe, you idiot! He felt like the others were all shouting at him, living and the dead. If only he had Jelaqua—
He hadn’t thought of her since he’d left.
Okay, he’d thought of her, but he hadn’t wanted to talk to her or say anything more. What else was there to say? She’d done the right thing, the damned thing.
He hoped she was happy for the rest of her days with that giant hammerer, Maughin.
Right now, Seborn wished she were here so they could split up and share this burden. Hells, he’d settle for a Silver-ranker he could trust.
Gothica.
The Drowned Man fixed Tissl with a look that made her fidget.
“You’re scaring me a bit, and I can’t read minds, Seborn. What?”
He took a breath.
“I’m…not good at this. Being supportive, and I’m no Captain. So I’m going to be direct. We’re in more danger than you think. I know you think I’m a Gold-ranker and I can help, but that chest is going to have every [Thief] worth their salt in miles coming after us. It’ll have our [Driver] shooting us in our sleep if he knows what it is. This is the kind of gold that drives honest men crazy.”
Tissl’s ears drooped. The girl was still a village kid from Izril. She put a hand on her belt knife.
“I know that, and I can cast a spell—I won’t let anyone take it.”
“You won’t slow them down. I won’t slow them down. I’m a [Rogue]. The minute a Level 30 [Warrior] grabs me, I’m in trouble. A group could end us both. The village could kill us. A hundred civilians can kill a Gold-ranker if they’re mad enough. We have to be careful. The person I’m most worried about in that village isn’t even the people. It’s that [Lord].”
She squinted at him.
“What, the one who was insulting everyone? Him?”
“He’s as good with a sword as a Gold-ranker. Don’t laugh. I don’t joke about stuff like this. And I trust him as far as I can throw his ship.”
Now she was getting it. Tissl bit her lip.
“So…we just pretend it’s normal, grab the chest, and get to the road? And if the carriage takes us to Invrisil where the magic door is…”
“No stops, no breaks except to use the bathroom. No inns, and we take turns sleeping. The [Driver] won’t ask too many questions; he’s used to this. The most he might think is we’re some kind of couple and I’m coercing or abducting you.”
She began to grin, but his face was serious.
“It happens. A good man would call the Watch. Whereupon a lot of honest men find the chest…”
“And we get our throats slit. Great! How d’we fix that?”
Seborn was thinking.
“Well…we just have to lie.”
 
——
 
(Hello and welcome to the new [Prince]-class Messaging Service courtesy of the Terras Faction of Wistram Academy! Your full list of benefits can be found here, and terms and conditions apply to any messages sent here. We look forwards to bringing more magic into your life!)
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — I need an overnight carriage sent to me immediately. Why is my [Message] scroll acting up?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Hello, Adventurer Seborn! This is an automatic upgrade applied to all [Messages] going through us.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — I hate this. That’s not important. Get me an overnight carriage now. I have an emergency passenger I need to move to Invrisil.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Of course, Adventurer Seborn. I’ll contact the Driver’s Guild and get you an expert. May I confirm your location is Moodfut along the western coast? We have some glitches that occasionally misassign your location.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Yes. I need a Level 30+ [Driver]. This is urgent. The Mad Alchemist who wiped out that village has been spotted, and my companion is a half-Elf kid.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — I understand completely. We are notifying the Driver’s Guild and forwarding this to the Guildmaster.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Do they have Termin the Omni-something or Chaoisa Who Hates Men?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — We’re checking…no, both are unavailable. The Guildmaster is now aware of your request, Adventurer Seborn, and has approved everything.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Good. We’ll be on the road just outside the village.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Your [Driver] is going to be Driver Ridmec, and he should arrive in 2 hours. Is this enough time? Is the [Alchemist] at Moodfut? We can have the village evacuated. This is the Guildmaster.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — He’s only been sighted. I’ll update if I see him.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Acknowledged. Good work, Halfseeker. That was the Guildmaster. Can we assist you in any other way, Adventurer Seborn?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — No. Thanks.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Wait. Can you notify The Wandering Inn I’m inbound and need a room?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Absolutely, Adventurer. We will have a City Runner deliver it directly.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Thanks.
 
(We hope you’ve found Wistram’s new Messaging Service has catered to your highest expectations! Do you have a moment to fill out a short survey about your experience? You may be entered in a sweepstakes to win a Tier 4 scroll! Please write how many stars out of five you think our service rates!)
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — 0 stars. Go eat a Creler. Stop spying on me.
 
——
 
Seborn finished writing in the scroll, then swatted at Tissl, who kept giggling as she read over his shoulder.
He felt slightly bad about that. It was for a good cause, but calling in an actual alarm about Irurx was no light matter. He might endanger someone else who actually saw the bastard. But it’d stop the [Driver] from asking questions, and they’d have the carriage in a mere two hours.
“Okay, let’s start the next part of the plan. Remember, if it goes bad, don’t lead them to the chest and get help before coming back. If we have the chest, gear up and run. The chest is the least valuable thing.”
“D’you always have plans?”
“Always, and backups. It makes me feel better when they go bad.”
This was a simple operation, anyways. Seborn just hated how…easy it had been. True, nothing in Tissl’s journey had been that hard. Her getting this far on her own had been relatively hard for her, but for him, he’d just done some rowing and pulled up a fortune.
He didn’t like that. Adventurers were as superstitious as seafolk, and Seborn was doubly so, and he was someone who prayed. Everything in him was waiting for the catch.
However, the journey back to Moodfut went just fine. They docked after stowing the chest, and the only comment the [Fisher] had was to ask what had taken them all day.
“The kid wanted to keep checking places. We spent all night digging.”
Seborn wore a grumpy expression as Tissl slouched her shoulders and moped up the village. She was overdoing it a bit, but the [Fisher] just grunted.
“You had it longer than I thought. Missed the entire night’s fishing and the morning’s catch.”
They haggled over the price, and Seborn let him have too much gold from the amount they’d agreed he’d get back—it was fine. It was all damn fine. He saw the [Lord]’s ship was still docked and the [Sailors] were wandering around.
“That lot cause trouble?”
The [Fisher] grunted as he pocketed his coins.
“No more’n any others. Rough crew, but the [Lord] just drank himself onto the floor. Kept hinting, like, we wouldn’t want to see him angry and that he had all these friends. Heard it before. He’ll probably sail into a rock and get marooned when he finally wakes up.”
Good enough for Seborn. He was glancing around for Tissl—she’d already jogged out of the village. The [Fisher] pointed to a distant figure.
“Yon half-Elf’s split. There’s gratitude for you. Why’d you help someone for all that and not a spit of reward?”
“She’s a kid. It’s my job to care about people like her.”
The [Fisher] tilted his head with a real frown this time.
“Aren’t you an adventurer? Don’t see many of them doing charity work save for the Silver Swords.”
“Halfseeker.”
“I reckon I’ve heard that name before…who’s your Captain?”
“Jelaqua Ivirith, but the team’s disbanded. Thanks. I’ve got to go too.”
Seborn walked off. He felt the [Fisher]’s eyes on his back, then the man muttered.
“Well, if it’s disbanded, what’re you doing going around calling yourself one?”
Which was a great question. Seborn kicked his way across the beach. This entire journey had been a waste of time. All he’d done was spend gold and find out he really wasn’t actually that motivated to go back to sea. At least, not as the Seborn who had left.
What do I do, go back to the inn? I can’t settle down. Neither can I stay there. What would I even do, drink and wait for the next moment when it’s my turn to die?
…I could do that.
But Moore wouldn’t have been happy. Moore had deserved something more. They should have made him quit years ago, the soft blubbing ball of gentleness. But he would have been lonely, and that’s why they continued. Then he’d found Ulinde, and that had been something—but Erin’s death had broken him a bit.
Seborn had hoped he’d rally, return to being the old Moore. If they’d just disbanded, let Jelaqua settle down and Moore could have opened a bookstore or something, and Ulinde might have quit—
He was the only one who would have left, probably. Then maybe come back. Now?
Now…
“On land, I’m Seborn the Halfseeker. At sea, I’m Seborn, my father’s son. I’ve always wanted to outrun the latter and be my own man. But Seborn the Halfseeker lost his team. So what is he now?”
Just some idiot escorting a kid to her future. Seborn hated escort requests. But he supposed it was something.
Once a Halfseeker…he was walking up from the beach and the shallow pier where smaller boats could dock—nothing like the [Lord]’s ship, let alone anything larger—when Seborn caught sight of that stranger again.
The one who was hunched over and wearing a cloak that quite obviously hid their features. They were trudging back from out of the water. Had they been swimming?
Most [Fishers] around here either used lines or nets—but this figure had a huge wicker basket with water sluicing out of it. And from the smell and the way it moved, it actually had live fish inside. Quite a lot too.
Seborn glanced down at the figure’s feet. Curious gait for the land. And the footwraps were oddly flat…
Flipper feet. But it’s even. Not a Drowned Man. Hunched. He might be five foot seven if he stands straight. Odd, odd…
He didn’t miss the way the other villagers eyed him either. Seborn began to walk up the village. He had to leave and join up with Tissl; the chest was stashed just around the bend of the harbor in some trees. But he kept turning his head.
One of the [Fishers] spat at the figure’s feet, and they deftly moved right. Some of the [Sailors] were pointing too. The [Fishmonger] from yesterday scowled as he brought the basket over.
“Put it—”
They went around back. Then came to the counter. She slapped coins down.
“How many eels can ya get? There’s a [Merchant] coming in later. Get me a basketful and I’ll make it worth your while. Understand?”
The figure nodded, and Seborn eyed the coins. From the few silver and mostly copper, he doubted the [Fishmonger] would make anything worth the while. He walked past the figure and caught the odor of fish and something…else.
Something Seborn recalled from his days at sea. He glanced at the stout little figure and grunted as he saw a protrusion along its backside, hidden by cloth.
Tail. Not a long one. Could be a Scorchling Drake with a water-based element. Could be…I’ll eat Jelaqua’s boots if it is. Not local to the village either. 
None of his business. Tissl was waiting. Seborn strode off and glanced over his shoulder four times.
He got the distinct impression the small figure wading back into the water was eying him.
Dangerous. Don’t.
That low murmur had sounded male. Had he known that Tissl had a magical spell that powerful? Perhaps. But then Seborn wondered. Had he been talking to someone else under his breath?
 
——
 
“Goblin with flippers? No, that’s stupid. They saw his face. Recognized him. What species…a fully taken Drowned Person? But they’d sign to me.”
Tissl heard Seborn before he found her. She was sitting on the place where they’d buried the chest, dagger out, trembling with nerves.
“There you are! I nearly peed myself! What took you?”
“It’s been five minutes. Calm down. At least you’re taking it seriously, though any idiot would know you’re hiding something. C’mon, let’s dig it up.”
Seborn got his shovel out, and they dug up the chest again. It was lightweight though too cumbersome to carry by oneself. Tissl had to open it and investigate it to make sure all the gear was in there.
“Phew. Okay, to the road!”
“Yep. Nice and slow. Remember, we’ve got most of two hours to kill. Get closer, bury chest, hang out. Breathe.”
She nodded, and they hiked through the forest, carrying the chest, alert for sounds, though the worst thing they saw was a Waisrabbit; Seborn saw her jump, dagger raised.
“If you’re this freaked out, then fighting might not be for you. Everyone gets terrified their first time. You could rent the gear out, though I don’t know how Selys—a friend—does it. Or just donate or sell it. That’d be easiest for you.”
She glanced at him as they buried the chest and went to the road. Tissl was breathing hard, and her cheeks were flushed.
“I…I don’t know what I want to do. I feel like I want to be an adventurer. To see what it’s like. I can always quit, right?”
“If it doesn’t kill you, sure.”
Seborn kept peering over his shoulders at the village of Moodfut. He should have paid more attention to the road in case someone was coming, but he was distracted. Tissl went on, feeling her way forwards.
“I’d love to go home and show Mom.”
“You’ll put her in danger. Everyone there too, if they know what you have. Did you tell them you had the location of a ghost’s treasure?”
She shut her lips, and he nodded.
“See? It’s hard. It’s damn hard. Let’s just get to the inn. Then you can see what real adventuring is like. Visit Liscor’s dungeon. Or a safer one. Fight a Shield Spider. See if you can gut one and then…”
He kept up a light banter, telling her about the trade of adventuring. Two hours passed by fast enough; Tissl remarked as he was checking the time.
“You smile when you talk about adventuring with your team. How’d…you said they were gone. How’d they die?”
He froze up.
“We were being heroes. Only idiots like the Silver Swords do that. Good adventurers run if they think there’s a chance of dying.”
“Sounds like they ain’t good, just good-at-their-jobs.”
“Those are the ones who make it. Don’t follow us as examples. I was prepared the entire time you were asking for my help for a trap. You could have been luring me into a beating. The only people you trust are your teammates, and only if they’ve already saved your life.”
“Sounds awfully depressing.”
“Have I talked you out of it? Here’s the carriage. Remember, let me do the talking.”
He saw a cloud of dust on the roads. Tissl turned and smiled at Seborn.
“Well, you might have. But then I remembered you lie a lot. And you appear happier when you talk about your team. I reckon they were the best.”
“Yes. They were.”
They stood. Seborn strode over as the [Driver] slowed.
“Seborn Sailwinds? Straight to Invrisil?”
“That’s right. We’re not in danger. I have one passenger here and some cargo. We’ll grab it.”
Tissl was already running into the forest. Seborn was glad he had done this through the guild; the [Driver] had good instincts and didn’t like someone running off. Brigands loved to mug overnight carriages given the vehicles had magic in them and, often, important passengers. Seborn wasn’t relieved though in theory the hardest part was over.
Damn it. He stared at the sky as Tissl brought the chest over. They’d done their best to make it less impressive. Seborn had coated it with some paint he carried to disguise objects or leave signs; the black didn’t really look convincing on the clearly elegant chest, but the [Driver] seemed honest.
“What’s that? Treasure?”
“That’s right. Family heirlooms this kid dug up. Mostly just gold and old gems inside. Few interesting pearls.”
Here was the lie Seborn had come up with—you always lied with the truth. The [Driver] whistled, and Tissl reached for her pocket.
“You could have one, Adventurer Seborn.”
“No thanks.”
Seborn watched Driver Ridmec’s face. Here was the important part…the [Driver] glanced at the box a few times, but he didn’t show any suspicious gestures. Seborn nodded to himself.
The trick was that most overnight carriages had [Drivers] used to transporting [Merchants] or nobles. A chest of gold and gems was certainly eyecatching, but they’d have had worse temptations before. Relics, now, that’d have them thinking, but Tissl and Seborn’s act had fooled the man.
“Alright, up you go. It’s going inside in case of [Thieves].”
“No worries, sir. I have [Enigmatic Compartments], so no one’s going to know what’s inside.”
Seborn loaded the chest into the coach with Tissl and stood back. Then he took a breath.
“Okay, Tissl. Change of plans.”
Her expression of relief turned to worry. She stared at him as he jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“I have something to take care of in Moodfut.”
“What? No! You can’t leave! I need your help!”
The [Driver] glanced at Seborn.
“I heard this was because of a [Pirate], Adventurer. Do I take her…?”
“Straight to Invrisil, and if you want to send a City Runner to The Wandering Inn when you get there, they’ll tip you well. Tell them I sent her. You’re an honest man, right?”
“Too honest to let a kid down.”
They clasped hands, and Seborn looked at Tissl.
“There’s someone I need to…check on.”
He couldn’t just drive off. Even with all the cause in the world—the damn ghosts were nattering at him. Seborn scowled at Tissl.
“You’ll be fine. I have to do this. I’m a Halfseeker, and there’s someone who needs my help back there more than you. If he’s who I think he is, they’re halfway to running him out of the village or gutting him. Who knows? I might be right behind you. But you go.”
He slapped the carriage’s side. Tissl looked from him to the driver. Then she began to wrestle the chest out.
“No! I’ll stay! Can we pick him up, too?”
Seborn groaned as the [Driver] began to rub at the back of his neck. They both felt this simple errand getting hard.
“You and he have different destinations. He’s from the seas, I’m almost positive—he’d be in more danger in Invrisil with adventurers than you. You’re safe.”
“Swear to it, Miss!”
Ridmec tipped his cap, and Tissl’s head swung between the two. She pleaded with Seborn.
“What if I wait for you and—”
He leaned over and whispered in her ear.
“Listen to me, this is not a good idea. I know I’m making this harder, but this is only easy until it’s very, very hard. Just get in the carriage and go. You’ll be okay, I promise.”
The Drowned Man awkwardly patted her on the shoulder. Her face screwed up, and she glanced at Ridmec. Seborn’s head was already turning towards the village. He had a sudden, ominous feeling as he stepped back from the overnight carriage.
As if he were making a mistake. Or perhaps…he glanced over his shoulder.
“Good luck, kid.”
“Thank you!”
She waved as the carriage began to speed up. Seborn waved once, then began to run into the village. He heard shouts from there, and he cursed. From one problem to the next. When he saw the two [Sailors] swinging at the figure covered in robes, he drew his daggers.
They were just children.
Why didn’t anyone see that? Just the skin. Then one of them tore the hood back, and Seborn sighed.
Green skin. Not a Goblin, except by the sea’s standards, where Goblins were actually a group you could trade with and you walked wise of. Instead, they had other sub-people. Drowned Folk knew these ones well. He’d killed them, parlayed with them, before he’d been a man with a conscience.
“Dorhmin.”
 
——
 
He had huge, green eyes. That was one of the things that made Dorhmin so uncanny. They had no pupils, rather like an Antinium. Their eyes were jade green and protruded from their heads, which were almost featureless compared to other species. It was vaguely fish-like; blubbery lips and two nostrils were the only features aside from their sharp teeth. All their actual interesting anatomy was on their back, which had fins running down to their tails, or their clawed hands and flippers on their legs.
Webbed fins under their armpits, the ability to move in the water as gracefully as could be—and they breathed water and air with ease. The one thing they lacked were levels. They could speak, even if Seborn had never heard one saying anything like a complete sentence, and use weapons. Even crew ships.
He knew them as a menace who’d climb a ship while almost everyone was asleep and begin slitting throats. But that had been as Seborn the [Depth Pirate]. As Seborn the Halfseeker…
I’ve heard of them appearing in coastal settlements before. Normally, they’re run off or killed. This one’s just a kid. They get way bigger. That [Fishmonger] might let him stick around as long as he can bring in fish, and he can probably beat any Level 20 [Fisher].
But [Sailors]? Ah, there was the problem. [Sailors] knew Dorhmin, even this gutterbait lot. And they had picked a fight already.
“I knew it. I fucking knew it. It’s a damn Dorhmin!”
They were swinging on the kid while he ducked and shielded his head. He was waddling around in all the clothes he could to hide his features, and some of the other [Sailors] were egging their friends on.
“Watch out, he’s got teeth!”
Some of the villagers were shouting as well.
“Here, he’s working for Miss Uew! Don’t…ah, hells.”
No one wanted to step in and incur the wrath of the [Sailors]. As Seborn sprinted down the village way, he saw the boy wasn’t actually getting beaten down yet. He was moving back, raising his arms and blocking punches, shielding his vulnerable eyes.
Of course, that just made the [Sailors] madder. One kicked him in the stomach, and he skidded, but didn’t grab his stomach.
“Don’t. Bad.”
Seborn shoved aside a trio of [Sailors] who recoiled from him and shouted.
“Gold-rank adventurer, idiots, move aside! Leave him alone!”
The two fighting [Sailors] recoiled. They saw Seborn’s daggers were drawn and hesitated.
“What, you want to gut this monster, adventurer? Go ahead!”
They drew back, and the Dorhmin boy—and he was definitely a boy—backed up. He had something on his back, Seborn realized. A long object wrapped up. A weapon?
“I am Seborn of the Halfseekers. Leave the Dorhmin alone. He’s not a threat.”
He addressed the crew instead, and one scoffed at him.
“Trust a Drowned Man to side with a sea creature. You mad? I’ve seen them disembowel a man with their claws!”
“So have I. They’re not all monsters. Like Goblins—”
Too late, he realized his instincts were rusty from all his time at the inn. He lost the villagers as the [Sailors] hesitated. They began to whisper.
“I told you we should have run him out! What if he brings his tribe down on us?”
“It can speak—”
“So can Children! Ever seen one of those things? They’ll eat you alive. Why’s he protecting it?”
Seborn held up a hand as he edged closer. The boy was moving back towards the water. Sensible; he’d be able to swim like a fish to safety. But the [Sailors] were glaring now.
“We’re not some landfolk sods you can order around, Drowned Man. We’re a crew from Treant’s Farewell. [Storm Sailors] don’t give way to Drowned Folk ever.”
If you’re Storm Sailors, I’m a [Pirate Lord]. Seborn gritted his teeth.
“I’m a Halfseeker of Izril. And that kid is under my protection. If you want to dance with blades, try me.”
He lowered his stance, and they hesitated, uncertainty in their eyes. Gold-rank was a reputation unto itself. Seborn thought he had them backing up as they glanced at their friends. Too much work for this. One muttered sullenly.
“You should be on our side! What the hell does being a Half—whatever mean, anyways?”
“It means…”
The kid was hesitating, now. He’d heard Seborn and was moving up slowly. He had a basket of overturned eels. How the heck he’d caught them so fast was beyond Seborn, but he was gathering them up, unafraid of the [Sailors]. Once they had a moment, Seborn would tell him to get out of Moodfut. Maybe they’d have to get a boat to drop the kid with his people. What a headache. Could Mrsha find a Dorhmin?
Then the basket the boy was loading up exploded into a ball of fire. Seborn hit the ground hard, the Dorhmin kid in his arms.
He got an elbow to the stomach, an uppercut to the face as he landed, skin burnt.
“Not me, it wasn’t—”
The boy twisted in his arms, and his mouth opened wide. Wide—he could have bit Seborn’s head off, and he was all teeth.
Seborn dodged the bite just in time. He rolled away.
“It wasn’t me!”
The kid was fast. He was on his feet and tense—until he turned and realized Seborn couldn’t have fired the [Fireball]. Indeed, the strident voice sounded above the screams of the villagers.
“What is that monster?”
Lord Gilam Quellae was bloodshot, clothes askew, and clearly still hungover despite the empty vial in his hand. But his aim was disturbingly good with the wand he was holding.
“Drop it!”
Seborn shouted. He drew a throwing dagger and saw the [Lord]’s eyes widen. He took cover against the railing of his ship and pointed his wand without showing more than a corner of his face.
He’s got combat experience.
“What the hell are you doing, Drowned Man?”
“He’s protecting a Dorhmin, milord! Scum of the sea!”
Seborn was drawing breath to make the same argument to the [Lord] as he had to the [Sailors]. Lord Gilam just glanced down at Seborn, then at the Dorhmin boy, and his face became one of disgust and contempt.
“Well, what are you waiting for? Kill it.”
The Gold-rank adventurer hesitated; he saw the crew of around twenty on the beach glance at each other, count their numbers, and look at him. He shoved the boy towards the water.
“I’m warning you—”
They charged him, and he hesitated a second too long before stowing his enchanted daggers. He snapped a punch across one’s face, took another down by kicking them in the legs and stomped their head into the sand.
The [Lord] was watching with unabashed delight as Seborn took down three, four, six of the crew before they were past him. Eight broke away, trying to down him; he vanished as they charged, reappeared behind their backs, and throat-punched the first to turn around. Then one threw sand in his eyes.
“[Dirty Sand]!”
Cursing, Seborn did an [Evasive Leap]. He ran into another Skill that hit him in the head with an elbow, and he was trying to see. The water—
He dove into it with a dozen [Sailors] after him and the Dorhmin boy. Both were trying to swim for it. Just outswim these Human idiots who couldn’t catch them if they got to the open water.
They tangled with the [Sailors] amidst the surf where the sand met water, and Seborn felt hands locking onto him. Then he was breathing water and cursing. This would be such a stupid way to die.
Moore would be proud.
 
——
 
Tissl felt something was wrong the moment she saw Seborn running into the village. She wanted to wait for him, to see what he’d sensed, but the [Driver] was insistent.
“We’ve got to get you to safety, Miss!”
He had the carriage rocketing up the road in a second. The horses were laboring, panting and wide-eyed, but he lashed them until they were galloping.
For a [Driver], he didn’t treat them right. Tissl didn’t say anything; Seborn had told her to be quiet until they got to Invrisil. She played with the painted struts of the chest.
They were heading north. The crossroads that split headed east and north from Moodfut; the [Driver] raced past another wagon that rolled out of the way. It had fancy heraldry on it, and a man stuck his head out the window.
“You bastard, I’ll have you whipped for that!”
“Wasn’t that a nobleman’s carriage, mister?”
Tissl stared over her shoulder. The little slat in the driver’s seat was open so Ridmec could speak to her. He twisted his head slightly.
“We’re an overnight carriage, Miss. We have right of way in emergencies. We’ll be at our destination in no time.”
She frowned. Then she checked the map she’d brought that had led her here. It had all the local roads, and she traced a route.
“So we’re heading north?”
“Yes, Miss.”
Ridmec kept glancing at her, sidelong, without looking at the road. Tissl hesitated. Then she casually adjusted her seat so she could stare at him and feel the big chest against her feet.
“I think we could go east first. North only takes us up the road.”
“Oh, this is a faster route, Miss. Don’t you worry, I know all the backroads and tricks.”
He chuckled. The half-Elven girl nodded. Then she glanced over her shoulder.
“D’you think you could take me back, even so? That adventurer was my friend. I don’t feel right without him being here.”
“I’m afraid he’s entrusted me with your safety, Miss.”
“Right, but I’m asking. I insist.”
Ridmec didn’t slow. He actually lashed the horses again, and one screamed. But he just kept…staring at her. She edged the other way, across the seat, and his head turned further. Now he was looking back nearly entirely the wrong way. Like an owl…she stared at his bulging tendons and his calm smile.
“We’re almost there, Miss Tissl. It won’t even be fifteen minutes at the rate we’re going. Don’t worry.”
“That fast? All the way to Invrisil?”
Now, the girl was pressed up against the back of the carriage. And Ridmec was smiling wider and wider. Something was writhing against his cheek, as if it was under his skin. He opened his mouth, and a black feeler poked out of it and pulled at his cheek. Something spoke from within his skin.
“The Alchemist wants to see you first, Tissl. Don’t scream. No one can hear you. Don’t scream.”
 
——
 
Then it was blood in the water. Sand in his eyes. All his Skills, all his levels and experience—it all meant nothing in a brawl in the water.
They were thrashing around, a dozen men versus two. In the surf—Seborn was punching, but he was slower in the water, out of practice. He had to get a grip on his opponents. Drown them—of course, they were trying to do the same to him. One had an arm around his neck, and he couldn’t break the Skill-enhanced hold—
Then the waves hit them. They were fighting on the beach, in the shallows where sand met water. The waves were hard and regular; everyone went tumbling head-over-heels, and you had no idea which way was up.
Sand billowed as Seborn swam upwards, or so he thought, and hit the ground with his head. He cursed in the water.
“Kid!”
Thrashing shapes. Someone kicked at him. He used [Shadowstep] again—grabbed one of the figures, and this time, he drew a dagger. Unenchanted, but he stabbed it into the man’s arms and legs until he let go with a shriek.
No body shots—they’d die bad and slow from that. And if he killed one of them, the [Lord] and the [Sailors] would make this go to the death. But he had to get them off—
Wave.
It swept everyone but Seborn, who had been braced for it. Then he finally saw the Dorhmin boy fighting in the water. He had three of the [Sailors] on him, and he was thrashing around himself, clawing at them, biting—even with their Skills, he was keeping them away, but another wave kicked him off his feet.
He’s never had to fight in the shallows before. Not like this. Seborn grabbed a fist as a [Sailor] came at him. They wrestled, exchanging slow-motion punches until he felt the wave coming. It lifted him, and he let it propel him into a headbutt into the other man’s face.
It left his head ringing, but Seborn was more in control now. He made his way forwards, cursing and wishing he had another [Shadowstep].
Blades drawn—one [Sailor] saw him and reached for his weapons, but Seborn lunged. He put the dagger against the chest, point-first, and pushed.
Get lost. The figure retreated; the others didn’t. They were grabbing the boy, trying to tear an arm off—Seborn grabbed one, and the boy broke clear of the other.
Neither Seborn nor the Dorhmin boy choked their opponent; they were in the water. They did what seafolk did and pulled them down.
Wrestling in the sand. Fighting until the Humans realized that their opponents had no need to breathe. They did—and they began to panic. Seborn let his opponent go after putting three holes in their left leg; they’d not come for him without healing. Then he looked around. Rose towards the surface—
 
——
 
—Breached the water and sound resumed. More than the rushing vastness of the ocean. Voices screaming.
“I’m bleeding, help us get the—”
“He bit me! I’m bleeding!”
[Sailors] were staggering onto the beach. Some merely had inhaled water or taken blows; a few were badly cut up. One was a mess of blood, and Seborn saw huge bite marks on his back. The boy again.
Seborn cast around, and he was there. Panting. There was blood coming from one nostril, red as anyone else’s, and he had several cuts, but he was alive.
“C’mon. They’ve lost the fight.”
“No. Swim.”
The boy argued back, eying the [Sailors]. Seborn shook his head.
“That [Lord]’s watching us, and the only thing keeping him from [Fireballing] you is his crew. He’ll take the ship out of harbor after you. We settle this on land.”
He was hoping he could. The boy hesitated, then to Seborn’s surprise, just nodded once. No fear in his eyes.
“Storm at our backs. No regrets, aye.”
That sounded so familiar. Where had he heard…? Seborn swam forward until he was sloshing onto the sands. Then he shouted.
“I am a Gold-rank adventurer, and if you codbait want to make it a killing matter, you’ll all be fishfood before I take a scratch! Adventurer’s Guild law—this lad is under my authority, no one else’s!”
They stared at him, then turned as the real opponent strode over the sand. Gilam Quellae was clapping, but he eyed Seborn and the Dorhmin with equal distaste.
“I am a [Lord], and you are protecting a monster, Drowned Man. I do like seeing a brawl, but as a noble of Izril, I insist you let me deal with this.”
“Adventurer’s Guild Code 55. It’s my decision what to do with monsters. No one overrides that. Do I have to lodge a complaint with the Adventurer’s Guild as a Gold-ranker, or to House Quellae?”
Gilam glowered at Seborn. He eyed the Dorhmin from head to toe, then shook his head.
“This continent is full of you bleeding hearts. From sea to shore, cowards and sympathizers, all of you! Dead gods—get yourselves up, you useless rabble! We’re leaving.”
“But lord, they—”
The [Lord] walked past one of the [Sailors] who’d started the fight. He kicked the man in the face so fast that Seborn barely saw it. The man went down, and Gilam shouted.
“Up! Get a move on!”
His crew hesitated, then stared at Seborn. They glared death at the boy, but then they began to pick themselves up, calling for bandages, drinks—Seborn just exhaled. He turned to the boy and saw the Dorhmin eying Gilam as the [Lord] sauntered back to his ship.
“Dangerous.”
“Yeah. C’mon, let’s get out of here before he finds a book.”
There was no Adventurer’s Code 55, or if there was, Seborn was pretty sure it didn’t let him outrank nobles. It was just as well that Gilam was an idiot. Then again…Seborn wasn’t convinced that young man could read.
 
——
 
It was never that easy, of course. The villagers had to have their way afterwards. Their headman pointed a trembling finger at the Dorhmin.
“We want him out of our village! He’s brought enough trouble down on us!”
“He’s done nothing but fish for you for a pittance. But I’ll take him all the same. Clear off and leave us alone.”
They dispersed, muttering. Seborn sat down on the ground, panting. That scrap had been tiring for all it was short. After a moment, the boy sat down too.
“Thanks.”
Now that Seborn was closer, the fishy smell was definitely stronger, and he eyed the young Dorhmin with a reserve of his own.
“Don’t mention it. You need to leave. I’ll help you either get to another settlement with a boat or see if they’ll sell me one of theirs. But you know you have to leave. That [Lord] might be worse than most, but they won’t trust you here.”
“I know.”
So he was capable of more than monosyllabic statements. The boy nodded to Seborn.
“Irrel.”
“What?”
“Name.”
“Right. Seborn Sailwinds.”
They nodded at each other, and once more, Seborn had to re-appraise the kid. He drew a water bottle, washed out his mouth of the salt water he’d been breathing, and spat. He handed it to the boy, and Irrel did the same.
“Not many Dorhmin could take on a dozen [Sailors] and come out of it without more’n scratches. How’d you learn to speak?”
“Taught.”
“Were you separated from your group?”
“No. Not Dorhmin.”
“Huh? Not…well, are you lost?”
“No.”
“Well, I need to take you somewhere else.”
“No.”
The Drowned Man was getting a bit annoyed when Irrel stopped drinking water and turned his head slightly. His eyes had no pupils to focus, but he conveyed looking directly at Seborn.
“Don’t need help. Will go. Thank you.”
He stood, checking a ragged purse and adjusting his sodden clothing. Then he went over to where his basket had burned to ash. He picked at a few scraps of fabric; Seborn followed.
“What are you going to do?”
Irrel pointed.
“Swim.”
“To another settlement?”
“Maybe.”
“That’ll just repeat the problem.”
“Probably.”
“You’ll be dead when some drunk or idiot decides to take you out. Your people are monsters from here to Drath, you know that.”
This seemed to irk the boy at last, because he gazed up from the basket and spoke.
“Yes. I know that. My choice. Not yours.”
The Drowned Man stopped. He’d been so fixated on the problem that he’d forgotten one of the first lessons of the Halfseekers. He was talking at Irrel, not to him. He halted.
“I’m…look, I’m trying to help you. I’m sorry if I’m coming across as giving orders, I’m just trying to help.”
“I know. Thank you.”
“If I could bring you to a Dorhmin group, you’d be safer. If it’s a matter of distance, or finding them, I can help. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer with nothing better to do.”
“No.”
Irrel pulled a wet cap off his head and squeezed the water out of it. Then he peered up at Seborn and once again elaborated.
“Not my people. Not my home. Home is gone. I am alone.”
“Oh. I’m sorry.”
Then Seborn realized this wasn’t just a simple problem, it was the problem the Halfseekers had heard so many times. He saw Irrel pull the cap over his head and thought that the cap was too well-made, too well-fitting to be just scavenged clothing. And his shirt under all those rags appeared tailored for his arms. Irrel turned to Seborn.
“Don’t be. Sad. We deserved it. No surrender. No mercy. No regrets to be had. Waters gone red, skies gone black.”
Seborn felt like someone was squeezing his chest suddenly. He stood there, mouth open, as the boy recited those famous lines. Irrel cast his eyes to the blue skies. A storm was coming in from the north.
“Fearless all; we’ve ever been damned.”
He looked at the Drowned Man, and now the daggers were back in Seborn’s hands.
“Bloodtear Pirates.”
The boy nodded, his gaze fixed on Seborn, water running from his clothing as he stood in the middle of nowhere, the group who had damned more nobles and [Knights] than any war in modern history.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
He should have…not killed Irrel. He hadn’t, but the right move was…
Not to. But dead gods, he was Bloodtear. Murdering bastards of the sea who deserved death.
Yet he was a boy.
It was obvious now. The way he fought, his fearlessness, and the reason he was here.
Bloodtear. And not just any of them. Irrel snacked on some eels roasted by Gilam’s fireball, which were actually very tasty.
“Rosech’s son. Me.”
“You.”
Seborn remembered it, now. A single Dorhmin boy, ignored through the entire fight as that [Admiral] had cut his way through everything on the decks. Ignored…until the ending when the enraged [Prince of Men] had tried to kill Erin.
A spear through his neck. Irrel sat so calmly, watching Seborn. The Drowned Man sat down too.
I should…arrest him. Haul him off to someone. Who? Etril? The Wellfars kill Dorhmin as pests. They might conscript him—doubt it.
Who else? Zevara? What’s she going to do, lock him up? 
He couldn’t have been more than fourteen or fifteen either. Maybe sixteen if he was small, but he was just a kid. What had…
“Admiral Rosech was your father?”
“Yep. Found me. Dead.”
“I know.”
Irrel had no tears to shed. Dorhmin…Seborn wasn’t sure if they could even cry. Irrel tossed the scraps of eel into the water and spoke matter-of-factly.
“Did it for me. Bad. Didn’t want.”
“Did what?”
“Everything.”
The Drowned Man’s head rose. Irrel sat there, and the wind was blowing the scents of rain over them. Suddenly, Seborn’s lips were dry. He licked them.
“What…the war at sea?”
“Yes. Steal luck. Steal fate. For me. Everyone wants. I didn’t. Maxy wants. I didn’t. Rosech wanted. I didn’t. For me, he says. For me.”
The boy was talking now, his voice a low bass that seemed without inflection, but he was gazing around, turning left and right. Surveying Moodfut, the empty seas. He gestured around at it, at Seborn. His lips moved in a smile, but there was no mirth in it.
“Dorhmin die. Rosech wanted more. Future…always the future. I wanted father.”
He paused.
“A living father.”
Seborn Sailwinds said nothing. He was afraid that if he did, he’d say something insensitive or—wrong. Because the Bloodtear Pirates were bastards and monsters who’d killed and stolen from innocent people without remorse or quarter, for all they’d been nobles.
Yet the boy made him feel bad. He hadn’t chosen that war. He cleared his throat.
“Didn’t you—meet other Bloodtear Pirates afterwards? Or did the entire crew die?”
“Some lived. Ran away. Don’t want that.”
“So you’re just fishing for a living in the middle of nowhere?”
“Yep.”
“And what comes next?”
“You tell me.”
Oh, that was it. Seborn sat there and articulated it just because he felt sort of stupid.
“You’re lost. There is no place to go for you, nothing to do.”
Irrel smiled with a surprising gentleness for a [Pirate]’s son.
“Said well. Thank you. For not killing me. Deserve it.”
“No one deserves to be murdered at your age.”
A shrug.
“Seen some. What now?”
He was waiting for Seborn to attack or make some other move, and the Drowned Man cursed.
“Dead Erins damn it. I’m not dealing with this.”
He stood up, and the boy blinked.
“Leaving?”
“No, I’m taking you to a place where I don’t have to make these decisions. Now I have to call for another damn coach…I wonder if I can just get Tissl’s. Come on. I’m taking you to an inn. If they don’t kill you and me for bringing you—it’ll be better than here.”
And they might actually kill him for this. Irrel, Rosech’s son.
You fool. His crew are the reason so many people died. His father killed Seve-Alrelious. Erin might kill him herself.
Seborn could just hear Lyonette screaming at him. But he gazed at the boy, and a half-Giant took possession of his hand. He patted Irrel on the cap for a moment. The boy went still; Seborn had the impression he’d almost attacked out of reflex.
I need to get Jelaqua on my side before we get to the inn. Slip through the door and talk to her, then…even if they turned him away, it was a start. Maybe a Dorhmin could live in Liscor? It was still raining. Plenty of fish. Hexel was building a permanent lake, right?
“Come on. We’d better get out of here before that crew or [Lord] comes to fight.”
Though they were sailing out of the harbor. Seborn didn’t trust Gilam not to take potshots with that wand. He was walking up through the village when he realized Irrel wasn’t following.
“What is it? I can swear on a truth spell that I’m not tricking you.”
Irrel studied Seborn’s face, then shook his body left and right. Without much neck muscle, it was his version of a shake of the head. It was oddly endearing.
“I believe you. Won’t go. Putting you in danger. Thanks. No thanks.”
Seborn sighed. Another idiot kid. He squatted down.
“Listen. It’s not because I’m trying to be a [Hero] about it. I’m a Halfseeker. This is what my team and I did. If I didn’t do something, they’d haunt me until I died—and afterwards, since apparently we all turn into damn ghosts or something. Now, we can argue about this here or argue when we’re dry, in a coach, and eating something.”
The Dorhmin boy thought about this. He twisted right and left, as if debating swimming into the harbor. Then he stood.
“Okay. Coach?”
“Yep. We’ll get one—”
“Dodge.”
Irrel kicked Seborn in the chest and rolled away. Seborn backflipped, about to shout, then saw the vehicle skidding towards him. A single horse, eyes wide and bloodshot, foaming at the mouth, was stumbling onto the sand—
The overnight carriage. The door was hanging ajar, and there was blood—Seborn whirled.
“Tissl!”
The doors burst open, and the girl leapt out. She hit the sands and ran towards him. Her face was white and covered with blood?
Purple blood?
“Seborn! Seborn—”
He grabbed her.
“What happened?”
His eyes were faster than her mouth. He followed her pointing finger and jerked. There, splayed in the seat, was a dead…monster.
It was a monster. It had half-crawled out of Driver Ridmec’s body like some horrific centipede. Seborn had seen horrors in his time, from Crelers to Facestealer, but this was enough to turn his stomach. The man’s face was still twisted in a smile as it hung from the insect’s body. But the insect was dead.
It had been chopped into three parts—the culprit was the Orichalcum sword still embedded in the wood paneling. Seborn looked at Tissl.
“You did that? What—”
“He’s coming! He said he’s coming!”
The half-Elf was shaking. She was shellshocked. Seborn heard a voice.
“Bad. Very bad.”
Irrel was staring at the bug-insect with familiarity. He touched the bundle on his back, then turned to Seborn.
“I know him. Run. Run fast.”
The Gold-rank adventurer reached for the horse, but the animal had collapsed, and it looked run to death. So he gazed around.
No stables he could see. He slung something from his back.
The [Message] scroll.
 
——
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — This is a priority emergency. Driver Ridmec is dead. He was infested by some kind of insect monster. I need another [Driver] now.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Adventurer Seborn, please clarify. How was Driver Ridmec slain again?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Something was living inside him. I think it was Alchemist Irurx’s creation. It tried to kill the half-Elf girl. I need another [Driver] now.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Hello?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — We need—
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Seborn, Guildmaster Tealve. We’ll get you that [Driver]. Can you drive the carriage?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — One horse is out, the other’s gone.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Damn. Get us precise coordinates where you are. The stupid scroll spell still lists you in Moodfut. We’ll get you to Invrisil. Don’t you worry; the Pride of Wellfar has freed itself from the webs. You’ll get a [Hero]’s welcome at the Guild, Seborn. You called it well in advance. We’re evacuating Moodfut.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — What?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — The Alchemist is sailing down from Treant’s Farewell, just like you thought. Tell me you’re at least a hundred miles inland by now. How far did you get? Just run on foot; he won’t be able to catch you if you have a head start.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — We never got out of Moodfut.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Seborn, he’s right on top of you.
 
(We hope you’ve found Wistram’s new Messaging Service has catered to your highest expectations! Do you have a moment to fill out a short survey about your experience? You may be entered in a sweepstakes to win a Tier 4 scroll! Please write how many stars out of five you think our service rates!)
 
——
 
Lord Gilam’s ship came back into the harbor of Moodfut in front of the storm. He threw himself off the ship without waiting for a gangplank; there would not be one.
The [Sailors] were leaping into the water, screaming like children. Sloshing to the shore as the people grabbed things from their houses.
A storm was breaking upon them.
It buzzed. It chittered. And it swept ahead of the ship like a reaching hand. Insects beyond counting. That ship they came from sailed through the waters, groaning and writhing as it moved.
Shifthold. It was not the largest ship Seborn had ever seen, and it resembled more of a cargo ship than a warship or even nimble passenger ship. But it had armor like the Iron Vanguard’s famous plated ships, and it rode low in the water. As if all of its sins weighed it down.
He was standing in the village, shouting orders. Not running…because he was a Halfseeker. He kept yelling at Tissl to run. But she was standing still, petrified with fear. And Irrel? He was just watching.
“Abandon everything and run, you idiots! Get every horse and go—!”
The one horse that they had, and a few from the stables, were pulling children loaded into wagons. Adults were running—the smart ones. The idiots were still grabbing coins and valuables.
A coach drove into the village, and a huge man with a bullwhip leapt out of one of House Reinhart’s carriages.
“I am Lord Gorthes Reinhart! What the hell is going on here? I was catching up to that bastard who tried to run me off the road when that young woman stabbed him and turned the coach around! It saved me the effort of lashing him—what is that sound? What is that storm?”
Seborn spun. The man was staring at the distant ship with a landlubber’s obliviousness.
“That’s Shifthold. A [Pirate] is coming to kill everyone here. I need you to get everyone in the carriage. Tissl first!”
He shoved her forwards, and the [Lord] stared at the half-Elf. His furious mustache worked along with his jaw.
“That’s Shifthold? The [Alchemist] that kills his own kind?”
“Yes. How many can your carriage hold?”
Lord Gorthes blinked at Tissl. Then he snapped his fingers.
“Right. No problem.”
He stepped into the carriage and snapped.
“Step on it, [Driver]!”
His carriage began to turn. Seborn cursed.
“Stop! Stop, you coward—”
“Lord Gorthes, wait! I’m [Lord] Gilam Quellae—”
The young man sprinted after the carriage. The door opened as it took off, horses racing, and Lord Gorthes stared at the young man.
“Lord Pellmia’s son you say?”
“Yes!”
Gilam burst into a relieved smile. Gorthes’ boot kicked him into the air. The [Lord] pulled the door shut.
“Excellent! Silver lining and all that! Good day to you!”
He raced ahead of the other wagons, and Seborn swore a blue streak after him. Gilam picked himself up.
“I’ll kill you! I’ll kill you and wear your skin, you—”
Seborn turned. The buzzing was growing louder. Now, he saw the ship coming into the bay. He gazed at Tissl. She was still holding the chest. Irrel glanced at it too; they might have been the only two with a calm head here.
Well, calm for a given value of ‘we are dead’. Seborn did a few calculations.
We’ll never stealth or outrun that ship. But maybe…
“Cellars. Everyone get into a cellar! A closet, even! Close up everything—airholes, gaps, everything! Don’t make a sound!”
He began shouting, and the villagers not running turned to him. Most kept running; it was instinct. But the [Sailors] regarded the moving storm and began sprinting for the houses. Seborn whirled.
“Tissl, drop the box. We have to find you a hiding place.”
The half-Elf was Irurx’s target. She had to be; there was no other reason for him to come here. How had he known…? No time. Now that Seborn realized she was Irurx’s target, he grabbed her arm.
To his astonishment, Lord Gilam grabbed her other arm.
“Yes, this way! Help me, you lot! I’ve paid your wages—this way!”
Seborn was shocked by the young man’s sudden bravery. But Gilam was ushering Tissl…straight towards the beach. He was trying to drag her to—
“Let go of her, you idiot!”
“Idiot? That’s the half-Elf the [Alchemist] wants! He’ll slaughter us all unless we give her to him!”
Gilam shouted back at Seborn. The Drowned Man drew his dagger.
“Let her go.”
Gilam drew his sword, one-handed. Seborn felt his skin crawling. He was aware the young man was dangerous. He tensed as Gilam’s eyes narrowed. Then there was a ringing of steel.
The [Sailors] had turned and drew blades. And—Seborn heard a voice.
“He’s right. Send her off, Drowned Man. Don’t be a fool!”
The [Fisher], Enlock, and the villagers. They were gazing at Tissl with madness in their eyes. She was shaking.
“Seborn?”
The Drowned Man gazed into her eyes and smiled. He couldn’t do it like Moore. But the lie came so swift and easy.
“Don’t worry. It’s going to be fine. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer.”
He stood in the standoff, and Irrel spoke, his flat voice barely audible over the storm as it broke over the village.
“He’s here.”
 
——
 
The Writhing Alchemist stood on the decks of his ship and laughed. He saw a tableau on the beach, and he held up his hand, pulling the insects back. This was a familiar sight, even if he had never seen it in this exact configuration.
A Drowned Man shielding a half-Elf from the mob. He’d seen that before—but what was that next to him?
“A Dorhmin?”
The half-Elf blinked. He hadn’t seen one of those in a settlement he’d attacked before. It reminded him of Rosech’s son. But he was a busy man; his sabotage at Treant’s Farewell wouldn’t last forever.
He had a plan and a timeframe, so he called from his ship as they all went still. The [Alchemist] drank a potion, and his voice boomed over the bay.
“I am Irurx the Alchemist. You know what I’ve come for. Turn her over.”
He saw the Drowned Man slashing at the [Lord] and shouting, keeping the mob back. Irurx laughed softly.
Everyone was talking about the Players of Celum, as if that was real drama. He plucked a flying insect buzzing past him and popped it into his mouth, chewing it as it writhed. Another thing he had in common with Ceria Springwalker, really.
“Once they turn the half-Elf over, kill every one of them except the Drowned Man and Dorhmin.”
His crew didn’t react, but he knew they had heard his orders. The Mad Alchemist might be a [Pirate], a kin-killer, and a twister of flesh and dignity, but as he’d told the [Storm Sailors]…he had standards.
He watched the Drowned Man backing up, daggers slashing. After a moment, Alchemist Irurx found a pair of spectacles. Then a handy book on adventurers he’d taken from the Adventurer’s Guild in Treant’s Farewell.
“That is Seborn Sailwinds. Halfseekers…he would know Ceria.”
He turned to one of the hooded crew who was making strange sucking sounds through their black cloth.
“Get me a bottle of wine. Something Drowned Folk could appreciate. We don’t have time for more than a toast, but I’ll just give him the bottle.”
 
——
 
“Back, back!”
Seborn was slashing with his daggers as he shoved Tissl down the beach. They were trying to get at her, shouting at him to let go. But they didn’t want to get near his blade. The other thing keeping them back was Irrel.
The boy had grabbed a fishing spear, and he was stabbing it at anyone getting close. Even now—there was a flash, and Irrel’s spear blurred.
He deflected Lord Gilam’s sword, and the [Lord] staggered.
“How the hell—?”
Seborn wanted to know that too. The kid was a [Swordsman], and a good one. But Irrel just kept muttering.
“Bad. Bad.”
“I know! Just—”
“Seborn, he’s right there. He’s staring at us.”
The Drowned Man twisted. He could see the Alchemist standing on the deck of his ship. Irurx waved, then pointed. Seborn twisted. He ducked the crossbow bolt that fired through the spot where his head had been.
They had to—there was nowhere to run. There was only one place where he could avoid the crowds. And that was—Seborn twisted. Then he grabbed Tissl.
“Irrel, run!”
The [Rogue] vanished as he [Shadowleapt]—then hit the wooden deck of Lord Gilam’s ship. He’d used the shadows up there to escape the mob.
“My ship! He’s up there—get a ladder, idiots!”
They had no way up for a second. Seborn was panting as he reached for the door of the cabin. It was enchanted, wasn’t it? They might—
“Seborn Sailwinds. My kin, if you please.”
The [Alchemist]. He was seated on the railings of Shifthold, and Seborn saw his ship below the man. It was…bulging at the sides. Little orifices opened in the sides, tiny holes disgorging insects. It was a living monster.
A Named-rank monstrosity. A ship with a mouth that swam, not sailed through the waters. And on deck—the crew.
Hooded figures with too many limbs. A spindly pair of legs belonging to an insect. A hornet’s stingers sticking out of one’s chest. But most were humanoid—and armed.
They had siege weapons on Shifthold. Strange magical lobbers filled with glowing vials. And worse—hooked harpoons loaded and ready to fire.
All he had to do was speak and this ship would be damned, however much money Gilam had paid for it. Tissl whispered.
“It’s you. The Alchemist.”
“Oh, you know me? I’m flattered, my dear. Come on now. You’ve been quite brave. Adventurer Sailwinds, I have a bottle to offer you for your bravery and our mutual association.”
The half-Elf clicked his fingers, and a bottle appeared on a little platter that one of his monstrosities held out for him. He proffered it to Seborn across the gap between their ships. The Drowned Man didn’t know what to do.
This is it. He was all instinct.
“Try to take her and die.”
He couldn’t leap the gap between their ships. They’d be dead in a heartbeat, and maybe…maybe that was better than whatever Irurx had planned for Tissl. A terrible thought, but Seborn had no more left. Irurx raised his brows. His face was all burn scars, but he still seemed terribly dignified.
“You are a Gold-rank adventurer indeed. I salute you, Seborn. But here, I insist. Give her to me. The only way you survive this is to let her go. Refuse and you both die. Upon my craft, I swear I will respect either choice.”
His eyes were ravening madness. He seemed so interested, like a man of science waiting to see the outcome of an experiment. Seborn turned to Tissl. The chest…?
She’d left it on the beach. He glanced at it, then spoke.
“Get inside the cabin. Don’t let him take you alive.”
“Don’t. He wants me. He’ll kill us both.”
She whispered back, then tried to walk forwards. He grabbed her. Irurx was grinning.
“Listen to her, adventurer. I applaud you as well, Sister. What is your name? Tissl, I believe?”
The girl faced him directly, and he was many, many times her age. But they were both half-Elves, and though she was shaking like a leaf, she managed to retort back.
“I’m Tissl Venleather.”
The most curious thing happened, then. Irurx’s avaricious face changed, and his eyes widened in genuine surprise.
“Venleather? Wait, I know that name…you wouldn’t happen to be the daughter of Disabella, would you?”
“Y-you know my mother?”
Seborn saw Tissl jerk, and Irurx snapped his fingers.
“Yes. What a coincidence! Ceria met your mother. It truly is a small world. A half-Elf who survives being entangled as she did—it came up over dinner. So I know you, Tissl. Come along. I will treat you kindly, I promise. I am Irurx, then, the outcast of Terandria. Kinslayer.”
The depths of his eyes seemed to grow deeper. Tissl retorted as she leaned on the railing.
“I know you! You’re the half-Elf who doesn’t love himself. The one who blames his people for everything. Their mistakes and his. And he can’t stop blaming them or admit he was also wrong. The one who sails in a circle, chasing his own tail.”
Seborn turned to stare at her. Her cheeks were flushed as she shouted that over the water. The effect on Irurx was even more pronounced. A faint flush danced over his face, and he hesitated before snapping back.
“I take it that was your mother’s opinion?”
“And mine! I don’t even know you! You’re just a monster. Leave Seborn alone and this village. You can have that one, though.”
She pointed at Gilam, who flinched and tried to hide behind the crowd. Alchemist Irurx nodded slowly, eyes on her.
“Oh, yes. You have my word. We shall have to have a longer conversation than most, my dear. It is a custom. As for that fellow—why not? I could take the village that was all too willing to give you up too.”
A moan arose from below, and Tissl snapped.
“Leave them alone!”
Irurx gestured, and a magical bridge of purple light formed between their ships. It reached the railing where Tissl stood as his crew began to climb the railings.
Seborn’s dagger cracked the magical spell, and the bridge fell to pieces. One of Irurx’s crew had to hang onto the railings.
“I said you’re dead if you try to take her, [Alchemist]. Fight me.”
Irurx eyed Seborn and shook his head.
“You’re making a mistake, Drowned Man. Crew? Aim.”
The [Rogue] was poised to leap. Tissl grabbed Seborn’s arm.
“Seborn!”
He glanced down at her and smiled as he gestured to Irurx.
“You don’t ever give in to their demands, Tissl. That’s another rule of good adventurers.”
“Please…just tell Mom I found it. That she was right. You don’t have a chance.”
She jerked her head at the chest, and she was crying. He reached down and touched her hand as she clutched at his arm.
“I know, Tissl. But I have faith.”
He put his hands together. Clasped them as the [Alchemist]’s eyes narrowed. Irurx spoke slowly as Seborn uttered a prayer for dead men, for impossible odds. For what should be instead of what was.
“I have heard that word recently in new context. Strange. Let us see. Avoid the girl.”
He lifted his hands, and the Drowned Man drew his other dagger to throw. The sky was black. He thought he saw light in the distance, past the whirling insects, like the dawn, but it was too far away.
The world was collapsing.
The [Palace of Fates] was open.
It was today.
In another place, another dimension, a [Prophet] was praying for no one’s salvation, only their end. Hundreds of beings called forth from the infinite realities, whose territory bordered on the divine, flew to exact wrath and retribution.
Like it often happened, one of them, just one—
Got lost.
 
——
 
It had a thousand eyes, each one swivelling in a different direction. The form was the same, but the nature was something else.
The Antinium Worker appeared in a blaze of light like the sky, through the storm. When it stepped onto the deck, even the Drowned Man seemed stunned.
The Alchemist of Shifthold was shaking. He gazed down at his hands with a kind of clinical interest—then at the being who had appeared in the flash of light. Irurx licked his lips and whispered.
“What…what is that?”
Seborn Sailwinds didn’t know. He had no idea where this being had come from or for what purpose. He had seen Pawn’s summoned beings, but this was not a Worker from Heaven or even an Aberration.
It turned and gazed at him. Seborn backed up a step, and Tissl went with him. They couldn’t help it. It was radiant with colors that Seborn had no names for. Made up of shifting particles, motes of light that only existed in the dreams of Antinium. And it was made up of a soul of a true believer, called from Heaven’s gates.
From another world.
From another time. It surveyed the ship, then Irurx. The [Alchemist] and his crew, who quailed in the face of something they didn’t understand. An insect beyond even his means. Then—the angelic Worker spoke.
“bE VeRY aFrAId.”
It drew a weapon. A mace, and the [Alchemist] croaked.
“Wait. You are the glorious species. The finest children of Rhir. I am Irurx! I have corresponded, attempted to correspond with your Grand Queen. With Xrn of the Centenium! We are allies! I admire your people! Let us parlay!”
He gestured, and the purple [Light Bridge] formed. The Antinium angel halted, many eyes focused on Irurx. Then it turned to Seborn. The Drowned Man shook his head.
“Help us, please.”
From the waters he had dove into, Irrel was watching the Antinium, and the boy was afraid of it. He feared few things, but he thought his father would have swallowed and then grinned that mad, fearless smile if he saw it upon his decks.
It was something Irrel didn’t understand. The boy thought the Antinium peered at him as it took a step onto the [Light Bridge]. Irurx smiled and made an entreaty, remembering he had the wine bottle in hand. He proffered it to the Antinium.
“Then you understand; we are allies!”
The Anginium blinked its eyes all at once. Then its mandibles rose in a smile.
“nO.”
It leapt over the light bridge in a thirty-foot dive onto Irurx’s ship, and then it screamed. Irrel dove under the water, but he still heard it. A scream that went through his soul—it seemed to never end as Irrel reached for the thing he had been unwrapping. But he hesitated.
Was now the moment? When he poked his head out of the water he flinched; something was falling. Seborn and Tissl had leapt from the deck of Gilam’s ship. And then he saw another body falling.
One of Irurx’s crew, clawing at flames that burned without ceasing. The [Alchemist] was shouting something. Then—
The Worker from Heaven exploded. The blast made all three dive into the water; when they surfaced, everything had gone silent. Insects were raining into the water around them, stunned by the shockwave.
“He killed it.”
Tissl’s moment of hope was consumed by horror as she stared above. Seborn whispered.
“Maybe it took him with it. Or did enough damage to his crew…”
It was the first foolish thing the Drowned Man had said. Irrel told him so.
“No. Got another?”
“No. I don’t think I even deserved one.”
Shifthold was groaning. Its decks were…rippling. Like an insect that had experienced something unpleasant, resetting itself, checking for damage. And the [Alchemist]?
He walked to the railings of the ship and stared down into the waters at them. Then glanced over his shoulder.
“Now you and the girl are my guests, Seborn Sailwinds. I have so many q—”
The lightning bolt exploded overhead, but the shockwave blew more insects into the water. Irurx slammed against the railing, then sighed.
“Always the interruptions. What now?”
He turned around, and the Pride of the Wellfar bathed him in a furious orange glow. The second attack spell burned across the waters, a cone of orange light that set everything it touched on fire. Shifthold’s hull burned as chitinous growths rose to block the deadly light.
The [Alchemist] held very still as the greatest ship of the Wellfar advanced. Lord Etril Wellfar was at the wheel, eyes locked on the half-Elf. Irurx exhaled.
“Unexpectedly early. To arms.”
Shifthold turned, and the insects swept towards the Pride as it opened up with attack spells from each side. The crew began pouring onto the decks as the two ships circled. The air was screaming and buzzing. But the [Alchemist] was watching the trio stumbling onto the beach out of the corner of his eyes.
The half-Elf wasn’t getting away.
 
——
 
The Pride of the Wellfar was fighting Shifthold! Miracle after miracle. Seborn stumbled onto the shore, knees weak. He saw the two ships fighting in the storm of insects. They were continuing to boil out of Shifthold’s hull. Each second, the Pride blasted more away, but it seemed like Irurx had an infinite supply—and the two ships were nearing enough to board.
It was ridiculous, the tiny Shifthold versus the giant warship, but Irurx’s decks were ablaze with his own siege weapons. Alchemical weapons were bursting over the Pride’s magical shields, and boarders from both parties were passing through the barriers. He saw an insect that was all long limbs leap onto the deck of the Pride and begin attacking everything in sight.
“I thought the great wars of the sea were over. Damn—this is insanity. Come on, Tissl. Where’s your chest? We have to go!”
The moment that Irurx re-focused on them, they were dead. He just needed a few hundred insects to chew them to pieces. Seborn was hauling the half-Elf up the beach. Irrel followed. He had that long object in hand and something in his other.
A piece of cloth. Just a cloak or cape, faded into filthy grey. He was working on it with one hand. Seborn didn’t pay attention to it as Tissl finally turned.
“Wh-what was that thing you summoned?”
“Antinium from Heaven. Not my faith. I think they just sent one to help out. I owe Pawn big for that.”
“Got any more?”
That wasn’t Tissl or Irrel’s voice, but Seborn was so shaken he shook his head.
“No.”
“Ah, excellent.”
Lord Gilam put his sword at Seborn’s throat. The Drowned Man froze as a ring of steel descended around him. He gazed up.
“You’ve got to be kidding me. Now? The Pride is buying us an escape! We should run!”
The [Lord] of House Quellae glanced over Seborn’s shoulder. His crew were trembling so bad they could barely keep the blades straight, but his was level.
“There is no way to outrun a flying opponent on foot or even horseback. I’m well aware, and you should be too. This is our only safeguard if the [Alchemist] comes towards us or manages to repulse the Pride. Tie her up! Him too!”
He shouted at the villagers of Moodfut. They approached, heeding Lord Gilam without thought until Seborn snapped back.
“She’s a child! Are you all that heartless? Isn’t there a drop of courage in your bones?”
He gazed at the [Sailor] nearest him. The man wouldn’t meet his eyes. Tissl just peered at Gilam, who snorted.
“Courage is for moments when there’s an actual chance.”
Thereby demonstrating he had no notion of what the word meant, he motioned, and a [Sailor] approached Tissl with a bundle of ropes. The [Rogue] was trembling, but he knew if he moved, Gilam would cut his throat. The [Lord] was daring him to try with his eyes. So, Irrel spoke.
“Dangerous. Don’t.”
The same quiet words halted the [Sailor], and his eyes swung towards the Dorhmin. He snarled.
“Can we gut this thing too, milord? For all we know, it led the Alchemist here!”
“Be my guest. But hurry up. The Drowned Man looks ready to commit suicide. You all saw it; he came at me.”
The [Lord] never took his eyes off Seborn. The two were staring each other down. They heard Irrel’s quiet voice.
“Two warnings. Don’t touch her.”
“Look, the fish-freak’s got something. Is that a flag? What’s he got there—watch it, might be a blade.”
Seborn’s eyes shifted sideways. He knew that refrain. Two warnings…
“Three warnings. Blood in the water, blood in the skies. No mercy. No regrets, aye.”
“H-hey. I know that rhyme. What’s he holding? What’s he—”
Then there was a gasp. And a faint sound, perhaps of a blade dropping from fingers that had suddenly gone numb. A [Sailor] backed up past Seborn, and Gilam’s eyes shifted left.
“You damn idiots. What’s…”
Then he stared too. Seborn dared to move his head slightly. He felt the blade cutting his skin along his throat, but he saw what had the [Sailors] petrified. They were backing away from something Irrel was holding.
Blood was running down one of his wrists. He’d cut his own flesh with his sharp teeth. It was a simple thing he’d drawn on the grey canvas.
Like an [Innkeeper] had once made a flag out of a pillowcase…the material didn’t matter. What he held, the symbol, mattered. This was no white flag.
It was a skull, the oldest sign on the seas. That alone would make a [Sailor]’s heart jump in their chests. But this one…this one was weeping a bloody tear down one eye socket.
The flag of the Bloodtear Pirates blew in Irrel’s hand as he held it. He looked nothing like the legends who had sailed against Terandria’s blue-blooded children, but as the harbor glowed with magic and monsters and illuminated his back, there was something of them in him.
Admiral Rosech’s son. The Bloodtear Pirate held a symbol that they knew, the people of Moodfut, that every people who lived next to salt and sea knew.
“That’s a lie. That’s just a—they’re dead. Get back.”
The [Sailors] around Irrel had drawn back. They eyed each other, counting their numbers. There were nearly thirty of them. One Dorhmin boy. Tissl was looking at Irrel and at the chest lying forgotten and to the side. He glanced at her.
“Stay back. Everything in front of me dies.”
“Get back!”
The [Sailor] nearest him slashed with a Skill. His blade swung towards Irrel’s throat in a deadly curve, and there was a ching. One piece of the sword spun through the air and hit another [Sailor] in the leg.
She cried out. Everyone, Seborn, Gilam, the villagers, gazed at the broken sword in astonishment. Then at the bundle of cloth that Irrel had used to block the blade.
The cut had revealed something. Now, the Dorhmin boy drew the sword from its cloth sheath. It was a longsword, and in his hands, it brought light to the darkness. Seborn had never seen such a beautiful blade.
The weapon that had belonged to the [Prince of Men], the Blade of Humanity, left no trail in the air. Nor did it shine with a thousand colors; even the writing on it didn’t glow. It just waited, a sword made to take lives without end.
“Come die.”
Irrel stepped forwards, and the [Sailor] nearest to him backed away, dropping his sword. Another raised a weapon. A crossbow. They fired.
The bolt struck the guard of the sword as Irrel shielded his face. He swung the sword out of guard-position. Reset his stance.
An arm fell to the ground. The [Sailor] clutched at her arm. She staggered—he swept the blade through her head at nose-height. Advanced.
Stumbling—they backed away from him. Another [Sailor] dropped his sword. He turned to run.
“W-what the hell is that?”
Lord Gilam Quellae saw his crew backing away. Then running. The villagers were doing the same. The boy they’d mocked was walking forward, and anyone who hesitated or raised a weapon died. He ran through a [Fisherwoman] with a hunting spear raised, his swordwork…
The Bloodtear Pirates had taught Rosech’s son well. There was no hesitation in his eyes. He had given them three chances. That was all you got.
He was coming at Gilam, sword pointed forwards in a bladesman’s stance. The [Lord] was frozen, his blade at Seborn’s throat.
“Stay back! You’re just a monster! You don’t deserve that sword!”
He shouted at Irrel, and the boy replied.
“Take it from me.”
Two warriors of the sword locked gazes. The [Lord] was shivering. His arm tensed. He gazed into the face that had watched his family and friends dying for a father’s silly dream.
The last one the [Prince of Men] had ever seen.
Gilam turned and ran.
Seborn nailed him in the shoulder with two daggers, but the [Lord] just sprinted up the village, deflecting the third and fourth. Seborn turned—and Irrel halted.
“Knew he’d run.”
That was his only comment to Seborn. The Drowned Man was speechless. He had known who Irrel was, but when he held the Relic-class blade, the heirloom of Erribathe, in his hands, he seemed to be someone else entirely.
Weighed down by a terrible burden. Instead of chasing the villagers and [Sailors], Irrel knelt. He planted the sword deep in the ground and then sat, cross-legged.
“Sorry.”
To Seborn? No…he was staring at the [Fisherwoman] he’d cut down. Blood was coating his arm. He looked up at Seborn, and then the Drowned Man saw the Dorhmin boy cry. Water gathered around the edges of his eyes and ran down his face.
“It always ends like this. Deserve this. We all do.”
He rose, and turned his body. The Mad Alchemist and the Pride of the Wellfar fighting behind him. As if it were mere background noise. He shook himself. Picked up the sword.
“Not done.”
“No. We have to get out of here. I…that bastard’s right. We’ll never run far enough inland on foot. If the [Alchemist] throws a wave of insects at us, we’re dead. Unless the Pride can send him packing fast enough.”
Seborn was feeling at his throat to make sure he wasn’t bleeding too hard. He and Irrel were watching the battle, but they were interrupted by a quiet voice.
“Seborn? Irrel? Can I ask you a question?”
Tissl. Irrel turned, and his mouth opened slightly. She was wearing the magical armor from the chest. The Orichalcum sword—sabre—was in her hand, and in her other hand was a strange crossbow that had no place to put a bolt. But it was glowing with magic condensing in the firing groove.
Seborn blinked at her.
“What?”
“What…what level was Alchemist Irurx? Everyone knows him. He’s centuries old. What level was he before the war at sea?”
Seborn answered automatically.
“Named-ranks are Level 40 or higher. But some hit Level 50. For a bastard like that? He was probably above Level 50. I think I once heard Saliss complaining that he helped bring Erin back to life. That he was doing alchemy even Saliss couldn’t. And Saliss is over Level 50, I’m almost sure. So…at least Level 50.”
“Oh. Okay. So that’s why. Ma always said past Level 50 was the land of myths. He must’ve hit Level 60 then.”
Tissl was staring past Seborn. His head slowly turned back to the battle. And then he saw it.
The Pride of the Wellfar was losing.
 
——
 
They kept coming. Wave after wave from his decks. They were already littering the Pride’s deck, but they were getting worse. The [Alchemist] had kept his worst creations for last—and the ones who emerged now?
Bathed by magical flames. A pillar of mana burning a hole into Shifthold from above. The spell that had destroyed the Assassin’s Guild burned through dozens of figures, and one of them lurched through the blaze and came out—unharmed.
It screamed with five voices as it raced up the bridge of twisted light towards the ship where Wellfar’s [Sailors] bathed it with more magic. But the magic just glanced off its chitin. And the blades—
The blades were chipping on its shell. The Twisted Alchemist was laughing.
“I have set my sights on grander experiments! Lord Etril Wellfar, thank you for delivering my new ship, alone!”
He bowed over his deck as a cyclone burst from one of the launchers and pierced the Pride’s shields. Flame became crystal, which fell to the decks and began writhing towards the nearest [Sailors] as liquid.
Hunter-killer solutions. Now, the [Lord] standing at the wheel, firing spells from his wand, saw the trap.
It had never been about the half-Elf girl. The attack on Treant’s Farewell had been authentic and a ruse. Irurx had sabotaged every other ship who could sail with the Pride—but known they’d break free of the webbing and think they’d corner him.
He just—wouldn’t—die. They’d put a hole in his head three times. And his alchemy—
Level 60. A single man had become a force like this great ship he had been entrusted with. Irurx turned and fed a passing insect from a vial.
It grew. And grew as he threw it skywards. When it fell, it was forty feet tall and still growing.
A titan crashed to deck. Etril turned to his kinfolk and crew.
“Kill it. Every master of blades, come with me. We join my mother tonight.”
He pulled his spear from his back and began to walk down his deck towards the [Alchemist]. The half-Elf ignored the challenge and produced another vial. He flicked it contemptuously.
“I have mastered cold that not even Ceria can dream of yet.”
His insects froze. The magic shields rebuilding on the Pride froze. The crew of Wellfar—Lord Etril burst from the frozen shell around him a moment later, coughing. Trying to breathe.
“Above. Take cover—”
 
——
 
The two ships were nearing, now. Circling closer and tearing each other to ribbons. Shifthold was screaming, but Irurx was prepared to sacrifice his ship—he had a new one in mind. The Pride was winning the naval battle, but his crew were winning the boarding action.
Into this duel, there was only one tiny little vessel. A pleasure ship, albeit made well. It had nearly run aground, and now it drifted in the harbor, rocked by the waves. Insects buffeted the sails along with rain and water.
But it sailed. Not easily; a Drowned Man hung from the rigging, adjusting the mainsail alone. He was the only one who knew how and could be spared. So he howled down at the helm where a half-Elf was holding the wheel.
“Turn! Turn to port—left!”
Tissl threw the wheel left, and the ship moved—slowly, reacting to her motions with a delay. She was learning it as each second threatened to see them list or even capsize. But the wandering trajectory of the ship brought them ever-closer to their destination.
Perhaps the embattled crews of both ships ignored the little vessel because they couldn’t believe any ship would approach them. Or, more realistically, it didn’t matter. It only attracted the half-Elf’s attention when Irurx turned his head and saw the prow of the ship approaching Shifthold’s railings.
“…That’s the second unexpected thing today.”
He stopped laughing, truly confused by this turn of events. Had that [Lord] grown a spine and thought to offer him his prize to make him flee? Well and so—Irurx would help him grow another.
But no, the Human wasn’t in sight. There wasn’t a Human on the ship. There was only that Drowned Man clinging to the rigging. The half-Elven girl at the wheel…
And a Dorhmin, foot resting on the railing. Peering at him. He had a sword on one shoulder. A sword so beautiful and so deadly that Irurx remembered it, though he had only seen it once as a boy.
He halted, and Irrel spoke through the storm.
“Irurx. It’s me. Irrel.”
“Irrel?”
The Writhing Alchemist turned from his battle; Lord Etril and his forces had retreated across the decks, out of the hail of his deadly concoctions. Now, he peered at Irrel. His eyes widened in shock, then he smiled!
“It is you! What are you doing, child? I nearly killed you along with the village! Where is your crew?”
“Dead. Fled. I ran away.”
“Well then, come aboard, and I will sail you to any port you wish! How did you convince the half-Elf to surrender? Or is the Drowned Man here until the end?”
He was in a good mood. Irrel ignored the question. He was gazing at Irurx’s face.
“Alchemist. Before the battle, my father told me. If he died, if we lost, find you. You are a half-Elf of honor. Sometimes.”
Irurx resented the ‘sometimes’, but he dipped his head.
“Rosech and I respected each other despite our many differences. He succeeded in his quest. For that, he is a legend of the seas.”
“Yes. He did.”
Not a muscle on Irrel’s face moved besides his lips. He did not smile. Irurx…couldn’t read him. He had seldom spoken to Dorhmin save as experiments. The half-Elf saw the boy glance at the ship. Then at the village.
“Blood on the decks, by sky or by tide. Three chances given, everything we see dies. No mercy…regrets? Aye.”
He bowed his head, and the half-Elf glanced at the Pride.
“Wonderful additions to the Bloodtear Pirate’s poetry, Irrel. Could this wait? I have a ship to take.”
The boy lifted the sword from his shoulders. He pointed it one-handed at Irurx, and the [Alchemist] felt an unfamiliar thrill of terror run through him as the Sword of Humanity faced its foe: everyone and everything. The Dorhmin spoke in a voice that rang over the fighting and the crash of waves.
“Alchemist Irurx, I challenge you to a duel. Fight my crew or flee.”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes bulged as he looked from the half-Elf to Seborn and Irrel. He turned.
“Me, duel you? Boy, I am Shifthold. My crew could wipe you out in the blink of an eye. Why would I lower myself to dueling any man or woman?”
Irrel met his eyes as Irurx tried to sneer. And the [Alchemist] felt his heart sink, because the Dorhmin had already trapped him with simple logic.
“Because you’re a man of honor. Because I am Rosech’s son. Because I’m a pirate. Yield or die, Alchemist.”
The ship was close enough now to kiss Shifthold. The other ship tried to take a bite out of the wooden hull; Tissl swung the wheel away.
“Seborn!”
The Drowned Man was swearing. The boy had leapt from the prow of his ship onto Shifthold’s deck! Irurx stared as Irrel came at him, longsword raised. He exhaled once. Then he reached for his side and drew a shortsword.
“You are your father’s son. But you’re not him.”
He leapt through the swarm of bugs blowing across Irrel so fast the Dorhmin boy barely blocked it. Irurx’s swing tossed Irrel across the deck—he hit a line of insect-monstrosities coming up from one of the decks and stumbled upright.
“Shit.”
The [Alchemist] was on him like a flash. And he wasn’t even using potions—
Irurx slashed across Irrel’s chest, then backstepped, twisted around, deflecting two cuts, and riposted. His blade should have run Irrel through, but the Sword of Humanity flashed, and a shield of magic caught the blade’s edge. Irurx tsked, then side-stepped as Seborn leapt out of his shadow, daggers stabbing. He caught the Drowned Man with a slash across the chest; Seborn rolled as his Wyvern leather armor parted.
Maughin’s mail was torn, but it had saved him. Irurx shifted as Irrel and Seborn tried to spread out.
“You did say ‘crew’. Fortune loves you, Seborn Sailwinds.”
“No. It doesn’t.”
They charged him, Irrel’s sword raised, Seborn slashing low. The [Alchemist] parried both in a blur, and then slashed across Irrel’s chest. He flicked the blood into the boy’s eyes and ducked the arrow made out of a shooting star. He locked eyes with Tissl, then shouted.
“Do you think Level 60 means nothing? You haven’t a hope, boy! Lower your blade before I kill you!”
He had been staying out of range of the Blade of Humanity, for all his bluster. Even now, he watched it as Irrel wiped blood out of his eyes. The Dorhmin boy snapped a bug out of the air, chewed, and spat it onto the ground.
“Never.”
But his glance at Seborn told the Drowned Man he didn’t have any better ideas. The Drowned Man was panting as he knelt on the decks. That damn half-Elf was a swordsman too! Seborn hated ancient [Captains].
However, without his insects—the Drowned Man threw a dagger. Irurx cut it in half. He raised his brows at Seborn.
Really?
Seborn turned his shoulder. Tissl was swinging the ship around. He gazed at Irrel.
“Promise me you won’t die. Halfseekers don’t die.”
“I’ll try.”
The boy whispered. So—Seborn sighed.
“Charge.”
They came over the decks as the [Alchemist] stepped towards them, blade blurring. He cut, slashing, tearing a cut through Seborn’s cheek that would have taken his head off if he hadn’t turned it with his blade.
He was too fast. They didn’t have a chance. He was toying with them—the [Alchemist] was taking on both of Seborn’s daggers and Irrel’s longsword with his shortsword at the same time, his blade a whirl. His other hand flicked something at the Dorhmin boy.
“Watch—”
The stream of insects covered Irrel, and he cried out, vanishing into a swarm of flesh-eating locusts. Seborn leapt and was kicked backward, shouting with horror and loss as Irurx sighed—
The glowing blade nearly touched him this time. The Mad Alchemist leapt back, whirling, as a pale light burst from the storm of insects covering Irrel. He emerged, swinging, and he wasn’t dying. He wasn’t even bit.
“That blade—”
Insects were vaporizing around Irrel as the sword emitted streamers of purifying light. The Alchemist reacted at once, slashing across Irrel’s chest, no more mercy in his eyes.
A clash of sparks? Armor? For a second, the boy was covered in—Irurx’s sword hummed as it vibrated, and then he hissed; Seborn had thrown a dagger into one arm. He swirled, now off-guard. That sword—
The Blade of Humanity rang once, like a bell, as Irurx tried to parry it. Irrel was coming in fast and low, swinging quicker, and when Irurx’s sword met the other blade, the sound and shockwave it emitted visibly twisted the sword in his hands. He grimaced; Seborn felt nothing as he lunged in again.
Irurx wavered, that dreadful blade in his eyes. He backed up, keeping Seborn away with a spray from a vial.
—Stabbed through Irrel’s arm and tried to pin him to the deck—the boy swung his blade across Irurx’s waist, and the half-Elf had to leap over the slash. It almost touched him. He landed, panting.
“Faster, boy? You can’t—”
Irrel was charging towards him like a [Lancer]. The half-Elf smashed him to the side with brute strength, and Seborn kicked him in the face. He received a punch that flattened him, but Irurx pivoted away. He stared at Irrel.
“That’s Galas. Dorhmin don’t have that. Do they?”
“Trained hard.”
The half-Elf glanced to his left and side-stepped behind a mast. It sprayed Irrel with blood as he slashed half through it, and Irurx kicked him in the stomach. Then Irurx wavered and saw the mast of his ship falling.
That blade had cut it in a single blow—Irurx spun, caught Seborn and stabbed him through the shoulder, running him into the railing.
Tissl rammed Shifthold with the ship, and Irurx stumbled on the rainswept-decks. Seborn tried to grab one arm—he was hurled to the ground. Irrel locked blades with the [Alchemist], straining—the half-Elf regained his footing and began to push.
The strength of a madman in his eyes. He was laughing again. The [Rogue] put his strength behind his daggers, but with his and Irrel’s strength, the half-Elf was still pushing them back. So, the [Rogue] whispered.
“[The Half-Giant’s Push].”
He saw Irurx’s eyes widen—then the [Rogue] heaved, and Irurx’s feet left the deck. He twisted—hit the side of the Pride, and fell into the waters. Irrel dove in after him, sword in his hands. Seborn was already falling.
They found the [Alchemist] in the waters, and he was no longer laughing. He slashed at them, reaching for his vials, but the boy swam around him, stabbing from every angle. And the Drowned Man was reaching for Irurx, heedless of the blade drawing his blood. 
The Twisting Alchemist had seen their eyes before. He breathed deadly water into his lungs and saw the half-Elf diving after them. He remembered the Naga’s servant falling into the deeps, a laughing Named-rank adventurer holding him.
He saw that terrible sword he had not felt the kiss of yet. Remembered the words of the glowing Antinium. Saw the diving Drowned Man and remembered the name of an inn.
So he mouthed at the Dorhmin boy.
“I yield.”
 
——
 
The insects were lying on the water in such profusion it seemed like you could walk over them. The harbor was torn to pieces, and alchemical liquids floated over the water. The bodies of Irurx’s creations were washing up on the beach.
He was right there. Lord Etril Wellfar had eighty spells capable of making the shot. He triggered none of them. A duel of honor had concluded, and besides—
He didn’t know who would be standing if he unleashed all the Pride had left. So he just watched for signs of treachery, but there were none he could see.
Alchemist Irurx clapped Irrel on the shoulder. He looked as upset as anyone had ever seen him—his eyes were glittering like needles rammed into his brain. But he still smiled and swept the boy a bow.
“Your father would be proud to see it.”
“I’d rather he saw it. Stupid. I regret it all.”
The half-Elf’s grip tightened on Irrel’s shoulder, and the Drowned Man standing next to him stirred, but Irurx just shot Seborn a warning glance. He lowered his voice.
“It is the privilege of children to speak that way about their parents. Someday, you will understand what Rosech won for you, Irrel.”
“I know what he won. I wish he had chosen himself.”
Irurx’s tight features relaxed slightly, and he gave the Dorhmin a second look. Then he nodded slowly.
“I see. Then I merely salute you. And you, Seborn Sailwinds, and Tissl Venleather. Few have ever bested Shifthold. We shall meet again.”
Then he stepped back across his broken decks bleeding some kind of black ichor, and Shifthold began to move. It sailed out of the harbor, past the Pride. After a moment, Seborn took the wheel of his ship. He locked eyes with Etril Wellfar—then spun the wheel in the opposite direction of Shifthold.
“Lord Etril. Should we not give chase to Shifthold?”
One of the [Ladies] of Wellfar demanded. Lord Etril turned his head.
“And risk him taking the ship? Don’t be an idiot.”
“But he’s—”
“The Reinhart’s Citadel-class ship, Velistrane, is sailing south at all speed. Wistram is trying to track him, and Pheislant is sending its armada. Repair the ship. We give chase the moment Velistrane is in range.”
The half-Elf was moving fast. Could he slip away…? Etril watched the deck scramble into action. He himself stood there. Watching the Drowned Man sail away.
“That is a Bloodtear Pirate. By rights, we should hang him. Anyone on either [Admirals]’ ships is condemned to death, Lord Etril. No conscription nor mercy for those two crews.”
His first-mate spoke after a moment. Etril nodded.
“We’re too busy giving chase to Shifthold.”
“And our rudder’s broken.”
“Well, go fix it.”
Silence. The young [Lord] stood there, arms folded, visibly upset for many reasons, but his eyes lingered on that departing ship with the three people on it.
Etril kept watching the Gold-rank adventurer he hadn’t had a chance to talk to properly. Seborn Sailwinds had to know that boy had a death sentence in every port in the world. That he was taking him to sea made sense…but why had the girl gone with them?
He imagined his mother smacking the back of his head and rubbed it and laughed.
“A crew sticks together. Ah, storm’s blessings upon us all. We are the might of Wellfar on the seas! It is our duty to be shepherd and protector and to pass what law there is amidst the waves. [Ship’s Mage], prepare a Ship’s Log to go to every port that hears Wellfar’s words!”
He shouted at one of the [Mages], who could indeed prepare a written summary of any notable event at sea. Such things were, if not standard, vital sources of news.
“Aye, Captain?”
The man didn’t exactly leap to attention as he turned from picking pieces of insect shell from his bare feet. Lord Etril was aware of the crew’s eyes upon him and the murmur that swept the decks, but he wasn’t done.
“Be quick about it, man! Shifthold first, as it pertains to the Pride. Then the other ship, Seborn Sailwinds, and the other two—find their names, and don’t spare the details.”
“As the [Lord] of the ship orders, so will it be done.”
A crossed-arm salute and a longer stare. Etril turned his head.
“I’ll want a copy of it myself, magus. I expect it to be a work fit for my late mother, or I’ll have you cleaning the insect bile from the decks. No details omitted, no part left unsaid. There was something about a carriage and a driver infested? Find the poor man’s details and get a dictionary. Too many such stories use the same word over and over to describe such matters in my experience. The ‘clash of swords’ or the ‘whirl of blades’ I want to see not once in it!”
A look of brief confusion flitted over the [Ship Mage]’s face, but some of the crew started. One called out, a young [Lady] of Wellfar who’d seen her first action.
“A proper Ship’s Tale, Lord Etril? Doesn’t the Guild o’ Captains restrict them to a page’s length?”
“So they do, so they do. Well, if we go over, send it not to them. Send it to…[Harbormasters]. The largest pub or tavern in a city. But [Ship’s Mage], it had better be worth the coin of sending!”
Now, the man had a glint in his eyes.
“Aye, Captain. I reckon I could do that, if you’ll let the crew and I recall the events properly and investigate the matter.”
“We’re casting off against Shifthold, so it’ll wait. I hope to add the Alchemist’s death to that report either way, but you’ve your orders.”
And that, Lord Etril decided, was the only coin he could pay the Drowned Man in. They were all bound by their duties to crew and law, and the boy was Bloodtear. But a reputation…he’d sing the truest songs about what he’d seen.
Calmer now, more at peace, the [Lord] stood at his railings and then let himself feel the shakes, how close he’d been to death, and the grief for his crew. His people worked around him, but no more called his name.
Then he stood in blessed silence, trying to remember everything. The grief, the sense of inferiority, the knowledge he was unworthy of his ship, the gratitude, the hatred—as his mother had taught him.
Until, of course, someone just had to interrupt. And who should it be other than—
“Lord Gilam Quellae! Lord Etril, Lord Etril Wellfar, that is my ship that bastard has sailed off with! As a peer of Izril, I insist you help me reclaim it and put the crew to the sword!”
The [Lord] was striding up the deck.
He was incandescent with rage. Etril turned.
“Lord Gilam? I’m afraid we hunt Shifthold. If you’d care to join our pursuit…”
Gilam blanched and shook his head.
“But my ship!”
“I could sink it if you like.”
“No, but—that bastard! He was plotting this all along! I’ll have his guts ripped out and display his arm on my mantle! I have to—I’ll hire [Bounty Hunters]! No, wait, my father—”
Etril watched Gilam agonizing and then come to a swift realization.
“Aha! He has to put in at a port! Lord Etril, please alert every harbor! The moment my ship docks, have him arrested and hung!”
That was the cheapest and most expedient of solutions. And Lord Etril, of course, agreed. He rested a hand on Gilam’s shoulder.
“Lord Gilam, I have nothing but respect for House Quellae and your father! I will, naturally, issue the highest-priority message to every harbor in the world, large and small!”
“Er, thank you. Though if we could be circumspect about this?”
Gilam tried to brush the hand off, but Etril grabbed his shoulder and walked him down the decks. He pointed at the distant ship.
“We cannot let such filth roam our seas. Which we definitely own. In fact, after our hunt for Shifthold ends, I will personally crush this [Rogue] and deliver his head to you on a platter!”
“Ah, I can see you understand!”
Gilam began to smile. Etril was already smiling. He nodded, then paused.
“One question, Lord Gilam? A pure formality.”
He turned as one of his people came forwards. Gilam saw Lord Etril glance down and then give him a huge, knowing smile.
“Sir, did you register your ship with the Captain’s Guild?”
 
——
 
Seborn Sailwinds inhaled the sea air and decided he liked the smell of cooking more. He steered his ship left, right, and then wondered how fast it could turn. It caught the wind well, but how was its draft…?
He hadn’t done any inspections of the small things. Then again, he’d gotten it for nothing. The Drowned Man sighed.
Well, he was a [Pirate] now. He glanced at Irrel, who was snacking on some roasted eel, and his only other member of crew, Tissl. She had finished swabbing dead insects off the deck. Both children regarded him, and he wondered if they’d even make it to the next port.
No crew, no provisions, and at least one angry [Lord] who will probably put a bounty on us. Then again, we survived Shifthold.
He couldn’t believe it. The [Rogue] kept glancing at his hands. Then at the two members of his crew.
Irrel bore the Sword of Humanity. A Dorhmin boy, a Bloodtear Pirate who had sailed with death since he could walk. On his other side, still getting her sealegs, was Tissl, a half-Elven girl who had inherited a ghost’s will.
“Tissl. Are you just supposed to sail around getting ready for a war of Seamwalkers? Or did that damn half-Elven [Captain] have any other wishes?”
Tissl was swishing her sword around as she fumbled with her magical gear. She turned to him sheepishly.
“I reckon he thought me getting his stuff was all I could do. But if I did make it to sea, he said I should turn right back around and go to Izril.”
“Sensible man.”
“Eh, well, he said that if I made it to southern Izril and the Drakes weren’t at war, I should hire some Gnolls to raid one of their Walled Cities.”
“…Not a sensible man. Which one does he have a grudge against that bad?”
Tissl checked something on the crossbow she had at her side.
“Uh…Mershi? See, it says so right here. I don’t know the name. Rings a bell, but it ain’t any city that’s been around for ages. Or in his time. He said this was a ‘key’, but I dunno what that means. Looks very pretty and fires ‘Starbolts’. You ever heard of the name, Seborn?”
Irrel’s head rose as she tried to show Seborn the crossbow. The [Rogue] didn’t even turn his head.
“Dead Erins damn it.”
Irrel seemed confused.
“That a landfolk saying?”
“Nope. I made it up.”
They were sailing into the wide sea beyond, and Seborn stared up at the sky.
“If you’re my crew, then you’d better know I run a tight ship. I don’t have much experience being a [Captain], but I am a Gold-rank adventurer. And there are folks on this sea who hate me almost as much as Irrel. Also, we need a name for this ship.”
“The Sword of Gilam ain’t doing it for you, Captain?”
Irrel shuddered as Seborn spat over the railing.
“No. First things first. Name, then we need to see if this idiot has nets so we can get some food. Or Irrel has to swim…and then we find a crew before a storm capsizes us.”
He grinned. Despite it all, he was on an adventure. He only wished he had another crew with him. A half-Giant probably getting seasick, two Selphids who’d be talking about Irurx’s body, a Drake huffing about her people’s property, a half-Elf and Goblin arguing about swords…
Seborn closed his eyes. When he opened them, he saw children. Heads craned back, staring upwards. Eyes wide and not jaded or broken down. No scars…well, not that many.
I did it, Moore. Just a bit.
The Drowned Man stared ahead as Tissl pointed.
“Captain…”
“What, Tissl?”
“The moon’s cracked. L-look. The green moon’s cracked.”
Seborn glanced up and saw it. Irrel stood on the decks, gazing up, mouth open in wonder and horror.
“Bad? Good?”
The [Rogue] gazed upwards, then shrugged. And he knew it somehow belonged to the inn.
“It’s a new age.”
He swung the ship around and pointed it straight towards the moon, as if they could sail into the sky itself. The [Rogue] sighed.
“Halfseekers, forwards.”
 
 
[Class Change: Portside Innkeeper → Witness Innkeeper!]
[Witness Innkeeper Level 31!]
[Skill – Sense: Those of Stories Obtained]
[Skill – Staff: We Escaped the Dread, We Fled That Day Obtained]
[Skill – Recipe: Parasytebane Brew Learned!]
[Skill – Inn: Bug Free Obtained!]
 
[Class Change: Ghosttouched Runaway → Brave Helmswoman!]
[Brave Helmswoman class Obtained!]
[Brave Helmswoman Level 11!]
[Skill – Basic Proficiency: Seafaring Obtained!]
[Skill – Steady Feet Obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: Turn Faster Obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: Ramming Hull Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Proficiency: Swords Obtained!]
[Skill – Swashbuckling Combat Obtained!]
[Skill – Elven Mana Well Obtained!]
[Skill – Spell Efficiency: Stellar Magic Obtained!]
 
[Title – The Girl Who Escaped Shifthold Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Bugward Granted!]
 
[Class Change: Depth Rogue → Depth Captain of Misfits Obtained!]
[Depth Captain of Misfits Level 38!]
[Skill – Depth Dive Obtained!]
[Skill – Crew: Dodge Deathblow (Weekly) Obtained!]
[Reputation – Ship: Friend of the Liminal Folk Obtained!]
 
[Faith Seeker Level 12!]
[Skill – Prayer: Courage Beyond Measure Obtained!]
[Skill – Prayer: Dreadful Omen Obtained!]

Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 6) (2025-09-19)

This was Jelaqua Ivirith’s tale, but like a candy bar, it sometimes revolved around one of its ingredients. Much like a peanut, Kevin found a way to make it about himself.
He missed candy bars.
Dead gods, he missed Snickers. You couldn’t have paid him to eat the stuff back home, and here he’d kill a small rat for it. Not Rhata or Haldagaz, but some other rat, definitely. With his bare hands, which was gross and dangerous, but—
Oh, right. Not the time for this.
Kevin Hall sat up. He heard the faintest of sounds in the distance. A ringing—and his arms and shoulders were scorched. He thought, vaguely—
I’ve dislocated my arm. Ow.
Then he felt around at his sides. There was a sensation on his skin, between the ringing and the blisters forming and his arm screaming as he tried to reset it with only a vague understanding of how that worked.
Healing potions. He had six, all from another world. But Kevin wasn’t reaching for those. He gazed up, and though he couldn’t hear it, he could vaguely see the outline coming his way in his blurry, shaking vision. The roaring howl was shivering his flesh, and he could smell the stink of blood and something animal in the air.
“Sorry. I’ll finish it. Sorry—”
He sat up, and the wounded monster screamed at him with a beak that opened wide, wider than you would think was possible. Kevin carefully lifted something in his hands, and the impact slammed him onto the ground.
He lay there—now fully deaf until he could grab a potion and drink it. Only then did the ringing recede and his pains began to ease. The young man thought and spoke the same thing.
“Fuck. I knew it; I’m not cut out for this.”
Adventuring was hard. Who knew?
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith wondered if she was dreaming when she woke up the next day. She pinched Maughin, and he woke up.
“Ow. What was that for?”
“Just checking to see if I’m awake. Did…did I say anything when I came in last night?”
Maughin grunted as he rubbed at his cheek.
“Only that you’d been out with an old friend who was, in fact, a new friend, and that you were very sorry we couldn’t be, ah, intimate. It was fine. Then we slept. Oh, and that Liscor was selling new charms.”
“Right. Good. Not dreaming then.”
Moore was back. Lord Moore, that was. Lord Raithland, right…call him by his new name. Jelaqua hugged her knees to her chest, then Maughin added.
“I like the braziers. The Watch came by twice to ensure they were safe fires. I told them they were.”
“Oh. Right. Yeah…sorry, I didn’t ask—”
“I like them. Even if I cannot forge with them, they belong to you. People should know and be proud.”
He smiled at her, so solid in his support she remembered why she liked him again. She might have tackled him, but then Maughin added.
“You didn’t, ah, get to Esthelm to ask Master Pelt about the forge, did you?”
“Oh, damn! I forgot! I’ll go today! I promise!”
“It’s fine. All the [Smiths] are having a meeting about Dwarfhalls Rest. Again. They’ve begun to put Mithril on the markets, and between that and their steel…”
He looked worried. Pallass was no longer the smithing giant of its region that it used to be. Dwarfhalls Rest could ship its metals via Invrisil, which meant competition, especially because the Dwarves had knowledge Pallass’ smiths lacked.
Jelaqua scrambled out of bed to start cooking. Maughin could do it, but he was so methodical that by the time the toast was done he’d barely have finished any other part of the breakfast. She hit a heating rune and tossed together food with long practice as she called over her shoulder.
“How bad is it, Maughin? You’re still Pallass. They can’t muscle you out of the metal market, can they?”
“Of course not. In fact, the Walled Cities are going to try to ratify some treaty that means they’ll have to buy at least 50% metal from southern cities. It’s just…difficult. Mass-scale manufacturing will always be wanted. But premium, custom work?”
Ah, that was going to the Dwarves in Dwarfhalls Rest. And that was where a [Smith] like Maughin made his money. He elaborated after a moment, placing his head on the dinner table.
“Pelt can get that work, but I can’t move Mithril like he does. My forge, again…I’m not even sure where the Dwarves are getting the Mithril. They might be importing it from Terandria since there are no local veins. Between that and Demas Metal, how many people want my plain steel gear? My best work is a mithril alloy—they’re able to produce twenty times what my forge does in mithril!”
“Aw, Maughin…just see how many come by when you get a hand on that Adamantium! Or how about that magical fire stuff that Pelt was talking about?”
Glumly, the Dullahan pointed at his forge.
“I’ve been focusing on the Adamantium. I managed to make a hammer that can survive the forging process, and I’ve got some of the techniques down to make smaller bits, but the fire’s the key for working the huge block. Esthelm is where all the magical fire smithing is taking place. Pelt’s apprentice, Emessa? She made her first crystal-inlaid sword the other day. Very fine work. Not practical, perhaps, but very salable.”
He was feeling outmatched. And, like a hermit crab, was hunching in his armor like someone weathering blows. Jelaqua sighed.
“I’ll visit Pelt first thing. Promise!”
That made him brighten up. Just to prove she wasn’t staying away from the inn any longer, Jelaqua did stride out of the door, heading straight for the 8th Floor. On the way, she ran into a familiar face.
“Oh, er, Chaldion. Good morning.”
The Drake didn’t react as a few heads turned and stared at him in his chair. He peered ahead vacantly, bandages still covering parts of his body. The [Healer] assigned to him nodded.
“Miss Ivirith. Good morning from the both of us.”
“Yeah, a nice one. Hello Healer Ulla. Hey, Chaldion, hanging in there?”
The [Healer] appeared mildly scandalized, but Jelaqua just crouched down next to the wheelchair. The Drake said nothing at all. She inspected the bandages.
“Is he still healing?”
“He’s…better than last week, Miss Ivirith. His body is very old, and the healing potions didn’t work on these particular—his condition is very stable.”
That wasn’t a great endorsement, but he shouldn’t have been alive. They cut him to ribbons. Jelaqua eyed the bandages and wondered exactly how much damage was being hidden by the cloth. She stood, patting the Drake on the shoulder.
“Well, we’re both headed for the inn. He likes it there?”
“I think so. At least, I haven’t had orders not to…and they’re very polite. Even with the Goblins and Antinium. We get in most days unless there’s some emergency.”
“Oh, so you know how to get there?”
After last night, Jelaqua was surprised, but the [Healer] winked slightly at her. The Gnoll leaned over.
“Miss Liska helped us.”
“Ah. Great.”
 
——
 
There was a slightly longer wait to get into the inn today. Jelaqua wasn’t sure why, but suspected Lord Mireden had contributed to the crowds—until she heard and saw someone walking down the line and realized it was also on Pallass’ side.
“Citizens of Pallass! This is a Public Warning issued by the Assembly of Crafts across all floors!”
An official of some sort was marching down the street and shouting, and sounds reduced temporarily as everyone turned. Jelaqua pivoted, surprised.
“All floors?”
Normally, you heard this kind of thing semi-frequently advising of incidents such as crime or a burst water main or elevator being down, mostly safely. But an all-floors announcement…the Wyvern attack sprung to mind, but that had been too fast for an alert like this. Besides, if it was huge, they’d use the spells to speak across the city. Jelaqua listened as the Drake went on.
“There have been sightings of a Vorpal Rat entering and exiting the sewers! All citizens are instructed to remain calm but report any odd smells or traces of large monsters to your nearest Watch or security station at once! Thank you!”
Jelaqua smirked slightly as the official passed, though most citizens were whispering, somewhat nervous.
“Only one?”
The official had to pause as Healer Ulla waved a claw and clarified, yes, only the one. When he’d passed on, the [Healer] turned to Jelaqua.
“A monster in Pallass! Normally, it’s just Sewer Slimes—what’s so funny, Adventurer Ivirith? It might not be a threat to you or Master Maughin, but I shudder to imagine a child running into a—a Vorpal Rat!”
Jelaqua was trying not to snigger, and she explained hurriedly.
“Sorry, I’m not making light—it’s just whomever reported that thing didn’t know what they saw. Vorpal Rats don’t exist. They’re an urban legend.”
Some people in line turned to Jelaqua, and Ulla frowned.
“What? Surely they do. With how many rat breeds, there has to be one—?”
“Nope. Believe me, I’ve read bestiaries and hunted rats long enough across multiple continents. It’s one of those fake monsters that sounds real. It’s probably a placeholder or something until they figure out what it is. Sort of sloppy though, eh, Chaldion?”
She nudged the wheelchair, and the Drake—twitched slightly. His eyes flicked up and went down until he was staring at the ground. Jelaqua and Ulla waited, hopefully, but he said nothing.
“Well, whatever it is, I hope they catch it!”
“Probably just a Giant Rat. You can get ‘em eighteen feet long without the tail. Don’t worry, though, Pallass keeps their sewers cleaner’n that.”
Jelaqua began describing the multitudinous rat species she’d fought and killed, some of which could be Gold-rank threats at size or in nests large enough. Then she realized no one was interested and sighed. It was hard being an adventurer.
 
——
 
The lines moved fast enough after that, and then they were in the inn where a rather amused Liska was having fun.
“Where’s the inn? I dunno. It’s a mystery.”
“You have to know. I want to see the inside!”
A man with a round belly and [Merchant]’s attire was bothering her. Liska scratched at her stomach.
“Listen, buddy. I just get paid to operate the door. I don’t do tours of the inn, wherever it is.”
She was having way too much fun from the twinkling in her eyes. The [Healer] and Jelaqua moved towards the door as the [Merchant] peered around as if he couldn’t see it. His voice took on a hopeless tone.
“But surely they have to pay you! Or you have some inkling of where you go to get to it?”
Liska scratched at her chin.
“Well, it’s hard to say. Sometimes it feels like a huge journey to get from the inn to here. I often think, ‘can I make the trip?’ And sometimes I just give up. That’s why they gave me the couch, see?”
She pointed to it. Liska nodded to the people in line, clearly eavesdropping and aware of the new phenomenon.
“It’s a long and winding path. I can’t motivate myself, sometimes, even though I get free meals…lots of hiking.”
“Aha! So it’s in the mountains?”
“The ups, the downs, the straightaways…who can say?”
Jelaqua managed to get into the hallway before she started laughing. She passed down the trap corridor and into the dreadfully far inn where Liska sometimes felt her courage falter and the horrifically tall staircase to her room the Gnoll sometimes gave up on. Or maybe she’d been referring to the outhouses.
“Jelaqua! There’s my favorite Selphid! Are you coming regularly again?”
Nanette bounced over, and Jelaqua tousled her hair.
“The only Selphid you know! Thanks anyways, and maybe—I’m here on business actually. Here’s old Chaldion—is Pelt in? Anything interesting happen?”
She doubted it, but better to check here than look silly in Esthelm. Besides, getting the daily scoop was important.
Nanette shook her head; she’d braided pigtails today.
“So far? No Goblin Kings.”
“Ah, nice, nice. Where’s Lyonette?”
She normally was about, but Nanette sighed.
“Having morning singing practice with her friends. I don’t want to sing. Mrsha’s off at school. And I’m studying! Today, I’m taking lessons with Hethon.”
“As in Hethon Veltras? You do that every day?”
“Nope! Sometimes it’s Riverfarm and [Witches], sometimes I just do what I want.”
Not a bad life. Jelaqua nodded.
“Esthelm then. I’ve got to help Maughin with forge stuff.”
“Ooh, if you’re there, can you see if you can find Randy for us? He didn’t come in last night, and Lyonette isn’t worried so much as curious. He’s got all kinds of projects he keeps hinting he needs Rhaldon’s help for, and guess who’s coming?”
“…Rhaldon? Do I know him?”
“Black skin, drives a wagon with one of Erin’s rooms in it? Does [Alchemy]? Termin’s apprentice?”
“Uh…yeah! Sure, I’ll ask about K—Randy.”
Right, she had to remember Kevin was dead. Kevin…another person Jelaqua had to catch up on. She shook her head and did an about-face. Esthelm.
 
——
 
Esthelm was filled with people! They were all flooding towards the crafter’s district where huge signboards were advertising.
Charms of Liscor & Esthelm! Unique trinkets with powerful effects! Limited quantities!
 
“Huh. He actually did it, the tall bugger.”
Jelaqua hadn’t been there when Lord Moore had pulled his stunt, but she’d heard the buzz, and she put her hands on her hips. She bet he’d commissioned that signboard; it looked too snazzy with actual paint to be slapdash.
An organized Moore with magical acumen and who could play politics or economics. What a threat.
Her heart hurt. Jelaqua shook her head, resolving to check out said charms later. First, Pelt.
 
——
 
The problem with Master Pelt was that he was no longer a drunken wretch held hostage by his grief and guilt. It meant the Dwarf had a schedule and work. So did Emessa; she didn’t even appear at the entrance to his large forge. Another apprentice, a young Human man, turned Jelaqua away until the Selphid dropped the inn by name. Then Emessa poked her head out.
“We’re both busy forging, Jelaqua! Master Pelt will just throw his hammer at you if you interrupt—it’s magical fire! It doesn’t wait! Can you come back in forty-five minutes? Between forges is the only time to talk!”
“Sure!”
Jelaqua had to shake her head as a plume of greenish sparks engulfed the Drake, and she went back to hammering on something, swearing like a drunken [Sailor]. The Selphid backed up.
I can kill 45 minutes. Her first instinct was of course to check out the charms, but one look at the crowd of people blocking Gemcutter Avenue and Jelaqua decided she’d still be in line by the time forty five minutes had passed..
So she went somewhere else instead. The main square where the [Florist]’s statue stood. Lord Moore had told her a bit about how the charms worked. Meaning…something The Wandering Inn was good at making. But what did it actually look like?
 
——
 
No one was touching the [Florist]’s statue. Or rather, some people were and being threatened with bodily harm if they damaged it. Much less took a piece off.
Miss Ediya, the [Runecrafter], had a metalworking hammer, and she was swinging it dangerously.
“Try to chip a piece of the statue off and we’ll put nails through your head! It doesn’t work like that, and the rest of you can clear off!”
She and a number of [Crafters] seemed to be warding off a lot of copycats trying to steal whatever this was—with no success. The artisans were, in fact, cordoning off smaller areas around the statue. They had put up what seemed like drying racks to Jelaqua—only instead of food hanging from the strings, it was little objects.
“This is all we’re doing, [Mayor]. Nothing else—it’s only busybodies and [Thieves] who’ll try to do more. No one should get in the way of the [Florist]. I swear.”
Ediya turned to the [Mayor] and a group of the Watch, and the man frowned.
“This is it?”
“Yes, just a place near the statue to, well, collect.”
Ediya glanced at the observers who were trying to figure out the method to her madness. She turned to another man hanging up a charm he’d fashioned.
“This is no good. We’ll have to hire our own guards. Especially if we have multiple sites—though I’ll bet stealing charms is as bad luck as you can get. Actual bad luck; who’s got offerings?”
“Here.”
Jelaqua watched, fascinated, as the group added something to the base of the statue. It seemed like it didn’t matter to the observers, who were trying to see the magic or other more obvious power sources at play here. But what mattered was the bundle of objects put at the statue’s feet.
Flowers for the [Florist] and little weapons for the Goblins. Arrowheads, a small sword—perhaps items you could turn into charms, but mostly, Moore had said, just—tributes.
Does it matter? Ediya arranged the offerings and spoke.
“We should have a place for all of this. And a way to keep [Thieves] at bay. The first charms I’ll make will be for that, but better to have eyes at all times. This is an important spot, [Mayor]. And if it wasn’t before, now it’s worth more than just memory.”
She pointed at the base of the statue, and Jelaqua wondered how many more places in the world could create…meaning.
“A changing world. If I were a Bronze-rank rookie, I’d be putting my gold towards my first charm here as well as my first bit of magic. Here first, probably. Prices are way better than getting something enchanted.”
Then again, if Wistram really did create a magical revolution, maybe everyone would just walk around with [Fireball] spells at Level 10.
She’d killed some time here, but seeing the [Charmcrafters] making their trinkets and hanging them up got old after about, oh, ten minutes. So, Jelaqua walked on again, and there was one place she could kill time at forever.
The Adventurer’s Guilds in every city were always different flavors, but Jelaqua knew and loved them all. From the rough and rowdy ones filled with blood and guts to the high-class establishments where everyone was playing politics—she strode into Esthelm’s and nodded.
Silver-rankers at best. Local monster suppression and cave-contracts or guarding [Miners]. Not the place where an adventurer stayed, but a good place to get a start.
In fact, a higher number of Drakes and Gnolls told her that this was where Liscor’s Bronze-ranks were coming to get their start, especially in the rainy season. They turned to her, of course, and a [Receptionist] at the desk started.
“Are you here to register or work, Miss…?”
“Jelaqua. Gold-rank adventurer. Retired. Don’t mind if I look around, d’you?”
“Of course not! Welcome, Adventurer Jelaqua! Can I get you anything to drink?”
“Nah, nah…actually, do you have some water? Thank you so much.”
Her title instantly attracted eyes. But unlike normal, Jelaqua didn’t put some of the Silver-ranking teams in fear they’d lose jobs. Normally, Gold-rankers got treated like celebrities and villains who’d run you out of work if they felt like it.
Retired, though, meant she was suddenly Apista’s knees. Then she was the granny with tips and tricks to hand out and plenty of time to give an adventurer advice. Jelaqua swept into the room, grinning and feeling old.
They were so damn young. Some were actually older, but even a man in his forties felt young to her in experience. The first one to come up was a nervous Bronze-rank team.
“Adventurer Jelaqua? We heard about your team, and we’re huge fans. C-can I ask for an autograph and some advice?”
“Autographs? What am I, famous?”
They gave her earnest looks—they were three sixteen year olds. Two Gnolls and a Human. Oh, dead gods, it made her heart hurt.
“Bronze-ranks? How many weeks have you been adventuring?”
“This is our second one! I’m Migni, and this is Jerres and Kivry. They’re Silverfangs. I’m the [Warrior], and they’re [Hunters]. We’ve been hunting local monsters and doing gathering and small hunting quests, but we thought maybe we should take something bigger. There’s a Beaker nest about here and—”
Jelaqua swept her eyes over Migni and the two lads in a second. She had their measure. Migni was wearing cheap, cheap leather armor, and the two Gnolls had on even less; they were barechested with quivers slung over their backs and shortbows they’d use to kill game. She held up a hand.
“Hold on! If you’re coming to me for advice, you’re going to listen, right?”
The girl stopped and nodded rapidly; she was red-cheeked, and the two Gnoll lads were staring at her with slight awe. She was surprised Gnolls…no, they’d had a reputation among the tribes as well. And, Jelaqua remembered, they’d fought with Lehra and killed Wall Lord Dragial at the Meeting of Tribes.
Better times. She smiled and crooked a finger.
“Siddown, kids. First things first, who’s over Level 10?”
The two boys. Migni was not. She had a [Fighter] class at Level 6; Jelaqua shook her head.
“Beakers are big damn bastards. Not as big as a Mothbear, but they can take your head off in a single bite. Now, what does the request say?”
“Only one, so we thought—”
“One means you plan on two or more. What if it’s a nest or it has a mate? Second, none of you are high-level enough. I bet your two friends have been keeping monsters off your back while you smash a few, Migni? You need to know what happens when shit hits the teleportation spell and you’re all fighting in a mess. If it’s a Beaker, you also need armor. No bare chests unless you have a Skill or shamanic armor.”
She pointed at one of the Gnolls, and Jerres growled a protest.
“We’ve hunted Beakers before, Adventurer Ivirith!”
“With a group of how many? Eight? You’re shooting way fewer arrows if it’s the two of you, kid. And it’s going to come at you fast. How were you going to take it on? Traps?”
They had the idea to just place a simple net trap the two Gnolls reckoned they could rig up at the mouth of a cave, and Jelaqua tsked. She asked for a parchment and quill when the [Receptionist] gave her the water and drew a rough sketch.
“You come with traps prepared and be ready to be jumped when you’re placing them. No improvising on the spot unless you know you’re safe, and Beakers hunt. I’d do it like this, see? Trap here, here, and if you’re at the entrance and it’s not dying, you run. Let it bleed out and go to ground.”
Bronze-rankers were taking notes as she ran them through a trial hunt. Jelaqua almost wished she could go out with them just to show how it was done; she could beat a Beaker barehanded at her level. But they’d never level, and she didn’t have that much time to trek for an hour and then gut it and get back to Pelt.
At least this way they might have a chance. Once they passed their first fifteen levels, Bronze-rankers usually made it. And you levelled by peeing when you were that young.
Ah, she envied them. And didn’t. Jelaqua peered as the two Gnolls conferred with the dismayed Human girl and coughed.
“Lads, one more piece of advice from a Gold-ranker veteran?”
They gazed at her, and she winked at Migni.
“Either get your confessions out now and let Miss Migni talk it out or figure out a way for the three of you to coexist. Because if you’re lucky, you’ll just disband over romance and heartbreak. If it happens during a mission, you all die. Got it?”
Both Gnolls turned bright red under their fur, which you could actually faintly see, and Migni blushed as she whirled to study them.
Two Silverfang lads joining together with a young woman for an adventuring team? Not hard to exactly figure out why, especially how they regarded each other. She was hardly oblivious, Jelaqua bet, but probably too young to confront it.
Well, the uproarious laughter and jeers from other adventurers nearly chased the poor rookie team from the Guild—until Jelaqua slapped someone on the butt.
“Oi! Don’t mock the rookies. You were young once—wait, you’re all young, damn. Anyone else want free advice? I’m just an old woman, so it’s not like you’ve gotta take it.”
A Human woman raised a hand and spoke, a touch sour.
“Any word on what’s the most value if you’re trying to earn money as a Silver-ranker? It’s slim pickings if you can’t do Liscor’s dungeon! Too many teams from other cities come by and hunt the best requests down.”
Jelaqua thought about it.
“Either repeat guard work on [Miner] teams or see about culling monster nests. One’s boring, the other’s dirty, difficult work. No one wants to do either, see? But put in a month of both and the teams you protect will know you’re not some random team and might up your fee or cut you in on what they mine. Monster nests? There’s always someone with lots of gold who wants one taken care of fast. Get a hundred monster nests done and the Guild issues you a certificate that you can use.”
“A hundred nests?”
Someone exclaimed, dismayed, and Jelaqua laughed softly as she took a drink.
“That’s nothing. You’ll hit that no matter what by the time you reach Gold-rank. You all know how, right? Dead gods.”
 
——
 
Jelaqua didn’t even feel the time fly by in the Guild. She was just thinking it was time to head back to Pelt as she stopped giving anxious rookies tips on how to heal up without potions. Jelaqua sauntered back to the desk to give the mug back and thank the [Receptionist]—and ask if it was okay if she came back now and then—when she heard an argument.
The Guildmaster himself—another retired fellow, probably a Silver-ranker—was arguing at the desk with a rather dirty and banged-up fellow. Who stank. Both of noxious alchemical powders and blood.
“So let me understand this, Mister…”
“Randy.”
“Randy. You’d like to claim the contract on the Beaker? But you’re not an adventurer, and you didn’t register the quest with anyone.”
“Yup. I killed it, it’s dead. Look, I’m not even asking for the reward, I’m just telling you so no one wastes time on it.”
Jelaqua halted and eyed the young man with sandy blonde hair and tanned skin. He looked bad. And from the way he was wincing every time he moved his arm…she came up behind him as the [Guildmaster] glowered.
“Sir, this isn’t how the Adventurer’s Guild operates at all! A civilian cannot claim a contract—open bounties are one thing, but this is a registered mission! And how do we even know you’re telling the truth?”
“Look, I’ll swear on a truth stone I did it! I’m not—people can’t just go out and kill monsters?”
“You’re depriving adventurers of work!”
“It was sitting in a cave trying to eat people! I—aaaaaagh! My arm!”
That last part was because Jelaqua had snuck up and clicked Randy, or rather, Kevin’s arm back into its joint. She had to wiggle it around a few times before she heard it pop right; you could do it wrong and set it incorrectly, as he’d clearly done. Even healing potions didn’t fix that.
“Heya, Randy! How’s it going? You look like shit.”
Scorch marks on his skin. Popped blisters…on his cheeks, and his clothing was burnt down on both shoulders. Why? No bites on him, and a Beaker would have taken a massive chunk out. He jumped and whirled.
“Jelaqua! Oh shit—”
“You know this young man, Captain Ivirith?”
The Guildmaster blinked as Jelaqua slung an arm around Kevin’s shoulders.
“I do. If he says he killed the Beaker, he killed it. Look, he’s from the inn—they’re crazy over there. The [Innkeeper] herself once killed an entire nest of Shield Spiders. Took the job right out of Gazi the Omniscient’s hands. I say just mark it as done and give some Bronze-rank team the reward money. But make ‘em go to the nest and clear it out. You didn’t clear the nest, did you, Randy?”
The [Receptionist] and everyone listening stared at this edited tale of Erin Solstice. It wasn’t true; Jelaqua had heard the tale second-hand and embellished it, but it was true enough. Kevin just wiped at his face.
“Clear the nest? How? The, uh, Beaker thing’s mostly in pieces.”
“So…you didn’t dispose of the corpse? Harvest it for parts? Get rid of its nest so another Beaker doesn’t settle in the cave because it’s already made?”
Kevin opened his mouth, then grimaced.
“Nope. Damn, sorry…I just got out of there.”
“Cleanup work, then. Why don’t you assign that trio for it?”
Jelaqua nodded at Migni’s team, and the Guildmaster nodded. He eyed Randy, then turned to Jelaqua.
“That’s acceptable. If you tell this young man about needing to either register or not try his hand at slaying monsters, I’ll sort out the paperwork.”
“By the looks of it, he figured that out the hard way. Thank you—and I’ll pop back when I’m bored, if that’s okay?”
Both [Receptionist] and Guildmaster assured her she was welcome any time, and Jelaqua grinned. She walked out, Kevin under one arm.
“Now let’s get you cleaned up and some new clothing. Before anyone at the inn sees you. They were asking me to find you.”
Kevin squinted at the sun as he glanced around.
“Sorry. I passed out and woke up two hours ago. Damn, I think I have some clothing in Solar Cycles. I can grab that and wash before I get back. Ishkr might smell it, or Liska, but they’re cool. Thanks, Jelaqua.”
He smiled at her. She smiled back gently. Then she grabbed one of his ears.
“Right, and now you tell me what the hells you were thinking trying to take a Beaker on solo! And if you lie, then this ear gets it. You can live without one.”
“Ow! Damn it! I knew this was going to happen!”
 
——
 
A young Human woman worked at Solar Cycles. Her name was Rinli, and she was a [Gearhead]. Level 27, actually.
She’d been there from the start. First as an [Assistant]—you know, an odd job for a really odd fellow, but that had been when the inn had been smaller, but sort of cool with its magic door to Esthelm and Celum. Rinli hadn’t thought much of it except that she needed the money and it was interesting.
She was from Esthelm—there were a few other members of staff.
Merckle, a Drake [Bike Mechanic] from Liscor, the best in the shop. Gergia, a former [Scribe] who was now their [Saleswoman] and answered all but the most important speaking stones; Cadem, leader of the [Tinkerer] kids who they employed and who could fix most bikes by themselves—
Solar Cycles. It didn’t start this way. It had only been Kevin, Rinli, and Merckle back in the day—and Pelt and Hedault and Selys, of course, but they hadn’t been the actual store.
The moment that first bicycle had been captured on the scrying orb, Rinli’s life had changed. She’d moved apartments three times. Bought a house, had someone try to bribe her, then threaten her—called the Watch on her uncle for breaking into her home and snooping around for keys or files—
That was the downside. The upside was being the idol of every Esthelm streetkid who’d beg to see one of the new models, of having the money to buy her own house, of levelling twenty-seven times in a year—and being important. She’d kept pace with Kevin himself, which he’d joked had meant she was actually doing more work. But if she had, working all hours, managing the aspects of the business he couldn’t, she hadn’t minded it. It was one huge adventure. It had been grand as the store grew bigger.
At the start, she’d been writing down orders for monarchs on pieces of paper and hammering them into a wall, sweating bullets as Kevin and Merckle argued about why this bike wasn’t working, or trying to get a Courier to take a delivery overseas. Waking up at odd hours to hear a City Runner say, ‘the King of Avel needs to speak to someone now’, going to the Merchant’s Guild and hearing them state how much gold had been deposited in the account—
And Fetohep.
Always Fetohep ringing up Kevin in the middle of the night. Whereupon he’d sit, trying to work on a bicycle, going, ‘oh, really, I didn’t know that’ or ‘yes, Your Majesty’ for up to six hours as she brought him a cup of tea and a snack.
Then they, well, Rinli, had hired more help! Gergia, for one, and Merckle had attracted Cadem, and Kevin had let the kid stay and work. Rinli had been worried Cadem would steal something and leave, but after a few months, she was sending him with deliveries to Hedault and coming back with a bag of holding filled with enchanted gears—until they decided he needed an escort in case of muggers.
They still had a small place. True, they’d expanded it several times so it was now a full workshop of tools, and it had a garage you could bring a bicycle into for a tune-up or repairs—even a shop front, though you had to still wait in a queue for any model.
Plenty of knockoff bike shops were all over in Invrisil to Pallass. None of them had Hedault or Pelt or the sheer knowhow of Solar Cycles. Rinli had checked; she’d even gone to steal their best [Mechanics] and bring them here.
It had been such a fun adventure with their charming, if sometimes airheaded, leader who could talk to monarchs and utterly fail to balance a budget. Who’d take every new model of bicycle out and come back later with fifteen scratches they needed to buff out—it had been so much fun.
Then the Winter Solstice had happened, and Solar Cycles had gone dark. Rinli had sat in the merry little shop as employees and kids came in, all of whom asked her if it was true. How? And why?
No one told her more than it was Roshal. She’d gone into the store that evening and found a bicycle for a Lord Pazeral and smashed it up with a hammer. That had been months ago.
Today…
 
——
 
The buzzards were still circling. They had vast wings of bright, shiny cloth. Sometimes silk, sometimes just the appearance of silk, and huge heads capped with faux-crowns of tophats and plummed finery.
They squawked, too, in loud, obnoxious voices, calling over each other. The buzzards were ugly as well. Not merely in appearance, for some were tall and slim, others portly, and yet more just ordinary save for their fine feathers. They were just ugly inside and out.
“Miss, you are in need of guidance! You need a steady hand! I am that hand!”
A female vulture was calling from her carriage where she’d sat all day. She was a [Merchant], a high-level one with enough gold to buy Solar Cycles and have Rinli retire—if only she’d do the right thing.
Her squawking made the other birds begin cawing as well, shouting as they sat and harassed Rinli, screaming entreaties.
“One of the Five Families will back and manage this shop!”
“I am the head of the Merchant’s Guild in Remendia; the entire city will—”
“You cannot run this business without proper leadership classes! Your owner is dead!”
That was a cruel call from them, but they had no pity. They devoured the corpses of failing businesses they thought had juicy bits of fat and gold leftover and happily ate dying franchises too.
It didn’t matter that Pelt, Hedault, and Selys were co-owners of Solar Cycles. Kevin had always had the controlling interest in their agreement; the others could, conceivably, put up a threat, but Hedault and Pelt had no time nor interest in managing the business. Selys Shivertail would have been a threat, but wouldn’t you know it, she’d left Liscor.
Take the shares Rinli controlled and buying out or forcing out the other competing stakes in Solar Cycles would be easy enough with the Merchant’s Guild’s help. All contracts had loopholes or could be negotiated. Rinli was the key piece. Checkmate.
And oh, they knew she was weak. Today was surely the day she’d break. Why, two weeks ago she’d fled the storefront in tears and had been having a panic attack, back pressed against the wall as one of them cornered her, until the Watch came, the damn busybodies.
Of course, they were also cowards too, so the flock of unsightly birds drew back when the doors opened—the Drake with the wrench had frightened them off more than once, like a flock of wheeling carriages and surcoats.
Technically, though, they weren’t doing anything wrong. And each one of them would have sworn on a truth stone they were, in fact, the heroes of this story. After all, they firmly believed that Solar Cycles needed a new owner: them.
The fact that the young woman had kept the business running despite having no owner for four months was inconsequential, of course. What did a lowly worker know about leadership? The hoi polloi could not lead themselves; that would be ridiculous. What would happen to them if that were the case? One had gold and therefore was knowledgeable in all things business. Something ergo sum.
Every head turned as the window they were watching, which led to the office that Rinli was using, revealed some movement. The shutters were drawn, but they knew she was in there by the movement and set up such a racket that windows slammed open and more people down the avenue called for them to shut up and leave!
Mindful of the Watch, the flock quieted down, but they waited, beaks wet with anticipation. Any moment now, she’d come out to scream at them, and then they’d have her. They pressed in with their negotiation Skills, trying to force her to sell. Any moment…
 
——
 
Inside the office, Rinli admired the new glass window that Hedault had enchanted for her. She was humming as she checked the day’s orders to send to the shop floor. She glanced out the window again and saw the faintest blur of a few of the carriages moving.
She wondered if they’d figured out she’d had the windows soundproofed yet. In hindsight, it really was one of those things that was a no-brainer, but she hadn’t wanted to spend any of the company money on it. But a few weeks ago, she’d put the order in and not thought twice about it.
The plague that had haunted her for months was now just…background noise. Solar Cycles was filled with activity, people laughing, working—and Rinli was humming. She kept glancing at the timekeeper, of course; he’d said he’d be back by late morning, and if he wasn’t, then she’d panic. But a miracle had already happened once.
Kevin was back.
He came through the back door, yelping, and an alarm went off. Instantly, Rinli reached for a wand under the desk and a speaking stone that was tuned to Esthelm’s Watch. But she hesitated as she heard him shouting.
“Wait, wait! Damn, you hit the alarms. Don’t call the Watch! It’s a friend!”
She raced out of her office and saw him in the hallways. Kevin, or ‘Randy’ as everyone had to keep remembering to call him, looked horrible. A Selphid had him by the ear, but she let go as a whooping siren began to sound off.
“What? I didn’t—”
“It’s an intruder! Get them!”
Merckle dashed out of the workshop, wrench in hand, and all the [Mechanics] poured out to fight the thief they thought had come in. When they saw Kevin, they halted, then stared at his condition.
“It’s Jelaqua! Turn the alarm off! Turn it—”
Rinli turned Hedault’s alarm spells off, and everyone could hear. Kevin lowered his hands.
“Thanks, Rinli. I need some clothes. And privacy. Sorry, everyone. This is Jelaqua, from the inn. She’s here to help out.”
Jelaqua blinked at the staff of Solar Cycles, who didn’t really know her either; not many of the Inn People actually came here. They treated her warily, edging back in case she exploded or something.
“Uh—sorry.”
“Clothes are in your office, Kevin. And the inn asked for you—I told them you were sleeping here.”
“You’re awesome, Rinli. Tell them I’m coming in like an hour or two—I need to change. Jelaqua, this way.”
He nodded at her as the young woman felt her stomach unclench. So he had been going to that Beaker cave. She hadn’t been sure…
The young woman saw him stride towards the office. Then glance back guiltily.
“Uh, anyone call that I need to help with, Rinli? Not that I can since—”
Since I’m dead. She shook her head.
“Not right now, Kevin.”
“Thanks.”
He vanished into his office. Rinli went back, picked up the speaking stone, and assured the Watch officer that it was just a kid; false alarm, no need to investigate.
“Oh, but the [Merchants] are causing a disturbance. Can you clear them out? Thank you so much.”
She stamped the form for the workshop and placed it in a tray where it would be run to the [Mechanics]. Then Rinli stowed the emergency wand under her desk and got up. She walked down the narrow hallway to the office that Kevin had claimed. It had been empty for months; now she heard voices within. After a moment, Rinli hesitated and pushed the door open.
She stepped inside the office as she saw Jelaqua confronting Kevin, who was trying to wash off the gunk from his upper body and argue at the same time.
“—ead once. I’m not trying to do it twice—oh hey, Rinli, something wrong?”
“Nope, Kevin.”
She folded her hands behind her back. Kevin hesitated. Jelaqua turned to the young woman and shot her a brief smile.
“Sorry about the alarm and strong-arming Kevin back there. I just needed to have a word about his adventuring career—”
She shot Kevin a glower, which he just sighed at. Jelaqua added.
“We’ll be out of your hair in a second. I have to get to Pelt, anyways, and I’m definitely late.”
“We could help with that, Miss Ivirith. Solar Cycles works with his smithy and Master Hedault daily.”
Rinli smiled. Both Kevin and Jelaqua stared at her.
She didn’t leave. Jelaqua gave Kevin a sideways glance and coughed. He just grinned, rueful, and it was him.
Him…and someone else. Someone who seemed pained and saddened by everything. Someone older and, yes, grimmer than the happy-go-lucky [Mechanic] who had been her boss last year.
Someone with secrets. Real ones, not just that he liked Goblins and gave them free bicycles.
“Rinli’s cool, Jelaqua. She’s not going to blab, and if they could have bought her with gold, someone would have ages ago, right, Rinli?”
“It was close until you decided to let us know you were alive. I nearly caved a few times. To the House of El, not that lot.”
Rinli nodded towards the windows, and Kevin appeared guilty again. Not his fault he got shot. But then he sat on his desk. He hated his huge pinewood desk that he said made him feel like a ‘fat cat’ for reasons that escaped his employees. Kevin was full of idioms and expressions they’d adopted.
He had made a huge impact whether his friends knew it or not, whether the inn respected it or not. But, it seemed to Rinli, he’d never taken himself that seriously for all he worked hard. Today, she saw him wincing as he put a shirt on, and a different Kevin had soot and blood on his arms. He gazed at them ruefully.
“I’m just not as cool as I want to be, Jelaqua. No one is under fire, are they?”
“Nope. And you knew that, so why’d you go and take on a Beaker without backup?”
She was angry, and Rinli mouthed ‘yeah’ behind her. Kevin picked at some dried blister skin.
“Because that’s real. It’s not like Reynold standing in front of me while I hack some poor Goblins and centipedes up with an enchanted sword. No bailouts, no help if I mess up. That’s how it works in the real world, in an adventurer’s life. The only backups you get are the ones you bring, and I brought tons.”
“You still nearly died. You’re smarter than that.”
Jelaqua pointed out, cross. Kevin just gazed at her.
“I levelled in my new class and my [Mechanic] one. I need to hit Level 40 yesterday, and I don’t just need one class, Jelaqua. I get that was stupid of me. Next time…well, I know what I need to fix.”
He brushed at his bag of holding, and Rinli stared at it for a long moment. Jelaqua didn’t know what was in there, but Rinli had seen and heard more than most.
Master Pelt and Master Hedault sitting in the office with Kevin, tears in their eyes as he told them a story meant only for their ears. Laughing, shakily, with all the guilt in the world.
Then—asking for favors from Master Pelt. Deliveries the old Dwarf obliged and sent on to Hedault. Odd…tubes that had no place in a bicycle—that Rinli was sure of. Gold taken out of Kevin’s little-used account.
Kevin Hall sat there as Jelaqua brushed at her hair, vexed.
“There’s better ways to learn to fight, Kevin.”
“So teach me. I was thinking it yesterday when we met. I thought—you’d know how to fight. Relc’s too busy, and besides, he’s an upstanding guy, even if he was a [Soldier]. No one but an adventurer knows what it’s like to be ambushed or fight dirty. The only other guys I could ask is Vaulont or Elia. One’s creeped out by me as much as I am of him, and the other’s weird.”
“Teach you? I don’t have time f—why would I teach you when I don’t think you should be fighting? You have a business, Kevin! A good one! Why are you going out hunting monsters?”
For answer, the young man just sat on the desk, smiling. And his blue eyes gazed down, down at something that made Rinli shiver.
“This is going to sound super lame, but somehow, it’s true. When I was in Hell, I swore that if I came back, I’d do it differently. Try, and I did try in this. But…safely. I didn’t fight the battles that Erin did, because I was always a coward. I didn’t think I could. It took seeing a version of me with syphilis and a shotgun trying to murder the Goblin King to realize ‘oh yeah, that’s just an excuse.’ I’m all out of excuses. And shits to give. So with respect to you, Jelaqua, and Ryoka, I’m done playing nice with this world.”
It was a funny, Kevin-like way of saying things. But if you knew him, it was also faintly unnerving. Because he meant it. The same young man who’d taken a look around and decided he wanted to be the funny bike-guy had made a business selling overvalued bicycles to monarchs. Then taken the profits and decided to give technology and aid to Goblins…and no one had ever known that.
Now, he was glancing at a bookcase on the far wall that Rinli knew held a safe with diagrams in it. And one more thing. An odd tube of red with a brass cap that made her [Dangersense] go off every time she saw it.
Jelaqua Ivirith had none of this context. All she saw was a young man she had liked who had come back from the dead and spoke like this.
“Sounds like you’ve got a deathwish, Kevin. I’ve met adventurers like you, and I don’t party with them, nor do I encourage what you’re doing. I should stop you or at least tell the inn if your staff won’t stop you themselves.”
She glanced at Rinli, and the young woman hesitated, but Kevin just smiled tiredly at Jelaqua.
“I don’t feel like dying twice, Jelaqua. Roshal came for me once. They nearly got Imani. Now I get how Erin felt after coming back. Do you think she’s not thinking about dying? It’s the opposite of a deathwish. It’s a ‘fuck-you’ wish. You’ve gotta be alive to see your enemies burn, right?”
The Selphid thought this over, then sighed loudly.
“Nagas take it, and here I was complaining about not having anything to do. I’m watching you. If I think you’re going too far, I’m hitting you and calling Lyonette on you, got it? Otherwise, count me in. If you help me with Maughin’s thing, I’ll give you some combat training.”
Kevin grinned, and he hopped down from his desk.
“Deal.”
He spat into the palm of his hand and held it out. Jelaqua made a face.
“Eugh, what kind of barbaric tradition is that?”
“Aw, damn. Is that not what they do? I thought—”
She laughed, spat orange into her hand, and slapped it against his so hard he winced. Rinli got a rag so they could wipe the spit off. Then she turned to Kevin.
“Solar Cycles is with you, Kevin. Just say the word. But you have to tell us what the word is.”
She met his eyes, and his face turned rueful.
“I’m not going to involve you guys in this, Rinli. This is serious. If you want to help, then I’ve got plans. I need some engineering help, and you’re the best in Izril. Well, you and maybe Laken’s trebuchet [Engineers] or Pallass’ Guild. But it’s got to be secret, understood? More secret than…”
He trailed off. So she spat into her hand and held it out, and he blinked at her, then shook hands.
“This is really gross.”
 
——
 
Thus it was that Jelaqua had a new problem, and she already had one with Maughin! But Kevin might have been the right card to play, because when she got to Pelt’s forge, he was indeed busy and the assistant tried to turn her away.
Kevin and Rinli just marched past him. The young man shouted.
“Hey, Pelt! It’s Randy, your favorite not-Unicorn! Got a second?”
There was a pause in the rhythm of metal, then a Dwarf came stomping out of his inner sanctum. His beard was covered in shards of molten crystal, and his glare did not spare Kevin, even when Pelt grabbed him up in a bone-crushing hug.
“You brat! This had better be good or I’ll put you on the anvil! My crystal’s cooling—get in here! Oh wait, it’s the Selphid. I knew your husband would come himself or send you. Get in here.”
He rushed back to his forge where crystal was cooling on an anvil; Pelt began heating it again and hitting it with his hammer. Jelaqua leaned over to Kevin.
“I don’t think crystal should do that. It’s a rock, right?”
Kevin shrugged.
“It’s Pelt. He can hammer anything. I think Emessa uses molds.”
The swearing Dwarf finished his hammering and put his piece aside to be worked on later. Then he pushed up two goggles on his face and glared.
“Damn crystal shards. I forgot why I hated working with it! Capturing magic from flames…damn stupid idea. But catch that lot at Dwarfhalls Rest doing this?”
There were indeed magical flames shooting out from a custom-built forge that let the flames roar up around an anvil Pelt was working on. The anvil was bright and shiny. Jelaqua whistled.
“Is that…Mithril?”
Pelt gave her a slightly approving, and very smug, look.
“Has to be. The only thing that won’t impart the crystal with an element.”
“What about silver?”
Kevin was interested, and Pelt spat.
“Silver? Silver’s a bastard’s metal. Purity and paugh, no! I’d rather use damn glass if I had to do without Mithril. Which I don’t, so shut up about metals, boy. You don’t want to be a smith. Leave the metallurgy to me. Now, who’s first? Maughin’s Adamantium or whatever you need this time? You’re not dead; that’s a start.”
Kevin rubbed one shoulder.
“I need to work on designs, but I think it’s Hedault or just…padding. This is all Jelaqua. She’s got a forge problem?”
Pelt smirked, and Jelaqua raised a fist.
“Something tells me he knows what the problem is and he’s been letting Maughin stew in it for months rather than help. Now that I’m retired, I don’t get in trouble with the Guild for hitting people, you know. Just the Watch.”
The Dwarf reached for a flask of water and drank greedily.
“The day you and I brawl, Ivirith, is the day you need a new body. Maughin doesn’t get any levels nor experience for having me giftwrap solutions. He’s learned how to forge a pound of Adamantium, right?”
“And cut the damn stuff off the block. Sure. Why?”
Pelt nodded sagely.
“He could do all that with a forge as mediocre as Pallass’ ones. The fact that he’s asking for more means he’s ready.”
That made Jelaqua excited; Pelt’s taciturnly tacit endorsement meant a lot. She wished Maughin were here, but Pelt would have probably been even worse.
“Well, what’s the problem?”
“The problem—siddown, boy, before you fall flat on my anvil—is that Maughin’s realized the thing I knew the moment I walked into the City of Inventions. All their forges are too small.”
“They’ve got the biggest smelters this side of Izril!”
“Too small’s too small, Ivirith. They’re made to mass-churn steel, which they do well. It’s not the same as a forge for magical metals. I blame the leaders of the city, not the planners, myself. I know they used to have bigger forges, but they moved all the [Smiths] to the 9th Floor. ‘Too noisy and intrusive’. Hah! It was only about a hundred years back—they used to be on the 2nd Floor. When we heard that at Derithal-Vel, we knew the Assembly of Crafts were idiots and they’d lost their Master Smiths.”
Kevin snapped his fingers.
“Oh, damn. So those original forges…?”
“Probably there weren’t as many, but they definitely could have been repurposed to Adamantium again. Without it, Maughin’s stuck. What is he having problems with? The weight of the forge? The heating mechanism?”
“Uh, yep. But the real issue is paperwork. No one wants to fund it, let alone allocate space for it.”
Pelt spat his water onto the ground. He roared.
“Drake politics! This is why I left that damn city!”
“I thought you left because Miss Erin and her inn charmed you away, Master Pelt.”
That came from Rinli of all people! Jelaqua blinked as Pelt swore at her, but apparently, he tolerated her sass—he grumbled into his mug.
“I’m ignoring that. Maughin has to make his damn forge! I’ve been counting on it! How the hell am I supposed to smith Adamantium if he doesn’t make it?”
Everyone stared at him, and now Jelaqua’s eyes narrowed. She crossed her arms.
“You old snake. You want to borrow his forge?”
Pelt gave her an innocent peek over the edge of his water bottle.
“An Adamantium Forge isn’t something I could have Esthelm build. If I save up enough, it’s possible, but a waste of my time and coin. Plus, the expertise required…and before you ask, no, I’m not doing it again in the middle of a road. I’ll have a crater a thousand feet deep in no time, and besides, the ground isn’t level enough to let me do more than forge rough pieces like the ingot.”
Jelaqua turned to Kevin.
“Can I hit him?”
The [Mechanic] was grinning as he sat on a bench of tools.
“Pelt, you’ve gotta help Maughin a bit. It’s hotter than a blast forge, isn’t it? Titanium is one thing, but Adamantium? How’s Maughin supposed to figure all that out?”
“I thought every [Enchanter] in the city would be all over him. Why’s Pallass ignoring its best smith? Magus Grimalkin being besotted over that bag-wearing snob is one thing…”
Jelaqua had to explain the political problems with Wistram to the Dwarf. At this point, Emessa had come out of her own smithy, and they were eating brunch—the Dwarf was scarfing mostly meat down from a charcuterie platter it turned out he really liked; Rinli had brought one for him, and he kept toasting some of the meat on a tray he passed through the forge fire.
“Wistram! Just as well that Archmage doesn’t claim to be forging metal. I should have known idiots would be all over his magical crap. It was like this with Zelkyr, you know. I was just a brat when he was around, but it was Golems this, Golems that! You couldn’t walk a step in a Walled City without seeing a Golem. They were replacing the Watch, the army…I wonder what happened to them.”
He tugged at his beard, frowning. Jelaqua tried to get them back on track.
“So, it’s not Maughin’s fault he’s not got a forge together. Can you give me a list of specifications, Master Pelt?”
He frowned and rubbed at one ear.
“Mayhap…but it’s not exactly about how it’s made. Just that it works. All kinds of forges work. Clan Tannousin used to make do in a giant bowl in the desert. There’s a forge in Samal I saw once that uses sunlight. Stupidest thing—you can only forge in the daylight and only certain spots.”
“How hot do you have to get the sunlight to melt Adamantium? And how? Mirrors?”
“Yep. Huge dome of ‘em. Some kind of magic to make the light stronger…it’s dangerous as can be. I threw a hammer through one of the beams on a dare. Vanished in a second. Maughin probably just needs a huge smelter that can contain the heat he’ll be working with. Once it’s out of the flames, a reinforced anvil will do, but he’ll need an Amulet of Flame Resistance, at the least, and Skills to endure the heat. An Amulet of Greater Flame Resistance would be better, but I don’t know if the Drakes have that lying around.”
This sounded like a huge undertaking. Jelaqua’s heart sank. Kevin was just curious.
“That’s all? Really?”
“Heat and a place to hit the metal, boy. Wait…no. He’s not me, so he might need help with that last bit.”
Pelt was counting on his finger and added a third finger. He grimaced.
“Adamantium is hard. One of the hardest damn metals known to any species. Maughin’s strong as you get, but even he’ll sweat to bend the metal enough. Ideally, he’d have what they have in Dwarfhome and Dwarfhalls Rest—a Magic Hammer.”
Kevin’s eyes lit up.
“Oh shit, you’ve got automated hammers?”
Pelt glared again.
“You Earth-Humans take all the joy out of life, do you know that?”
“We’ve got machines that do the same! They smash down metal without needing a hammer—what’re yours?”
“Big. Big enough to move massive pieces of steel. One of those is what we use for Adamantium if it’s not a Master Smith like me. Heh. Those idiots in the Assembly of Crafts think they got rid of the smithing sounds? Maughin will shake the city down to the 1st Floor regardless of how he’s working the Adamantium!”
Pelt chuckled evilly, and Jelaqua wrote down ‘noise cancellation’ and underlined it a few times on her list. She stared down glumly at the sheet.
“Well, I’ll tell Maughin, but it sounds like he’s going to have trouble, Pelt.”
“Tell him to come here himself and I’ll at least remind myself which spells were cast on the forges back home. No, wait. Tell him to bring Grimalkin and we’ll see if Pallass can equal it. Also tell him to buy all the fire magicore he can; that’s how you get a proper heat going. No, wait, also tell him he needs Mithril even if he has to buy it from Dwarfhalls Rest. I reckon that’s the best way to build the structure of the smelter. But he has to insulate it from the heat since it’ll melt in no time while the Adamantium’s cooking. Right, so tell him fire magicore and Everfrozen Ice or Grasgil—”
“Tell him yourself!”
 
——
 
Getting Pelt to take a break from his forge and visit Pallass took some doing. However, again, Jelaqua lucked out. Rinli had a way to lure Pelt from his smithy, and it wasn’t merely food or drink.
“Master Pelt, what if I were to get Felkhr the Flying Gnoll and Master Hedault to join you? With Magus Grimalkin? I’ll have a scrying mirror set up at his home, and I believe there’s an arena match in Pomle happening.”
The old Dwarf wavered, and it again transpired that sitting and watching arena bouts was a great pastime of his—especially if he had a crowd of people he tolerated.
“Hmph. I have a day of work to be done—! But if it’s for the Adamantium forge…”
“I have some of Farmer Lupp’s fresh corn from the north. I could have it grilled by Chef Lasica and sent up?”
“Fresh corn? Why didn’t you say so! And get me some of that crab stuff from Liscor. Not Rock Crabs. The good crab. You coming, Kevin?”
“Right behind you, Pelt. Think the inn can help with the forge?”
“Well, if they’ve got gold…why not send the Archmage and her apprentice? Not to the party, she talks too much. But between the two of them, that’s the reinforcement and higher-tier spells covered. Rinli, I need garlic butter for the crab!”
The [Gearhead Assistant] rolled her eyes as she chivvied everyone into the inn.
“I’ll catch up with you after I get this set up for Pelt. To Maughin’s house?”
“Sure, why not? It’ll be a mess, but I’ll hire a [Cleaner], and he’ll stop sulking.”
Jelaqua was so happy she volunteered her home for the party, and Pelt strode on into the inn.
“Hey, Portal Rat.”
“Who said—oh hey, Pelt. You going to Pallass?”
“Yep. Open it.”
“You got a passport and documents and stuff?”
“Nope.”
“Awesome. Here’s Pallass!”
It appeared the way to get Liska to give you favorable treatment was to be a pain to wherever she was sending you. Certainly, the guards at the checkpoint groaned the moment they saw Pelt. A Garuda hopelessly smiled at him as he stomped into one of the gateways.
“Papers, sir?”
“What do you think? Open this thing, I’m doing smith work.”
Jelaqua had her papers, and she was waiting in line when Kevin halted in his checkpoint. A [Guard] had stopped him.
“Sir, are you carrying any enchanted weapons or alchemical weapons?”
“Uh, maybe. Why?”
Kevin had papers—fake papers that Rinli had gotten him—but the young man appeared suddenly shifty as the [Guard] eyed him.
“My Skill is detecting something of concerning danger on your person. Would you please open your bag of holding? We may have to confiscate your items for the duration of your stay. You will be issued a ticket and be able to reclaim said items when you leave, of course. Assuming this isn’t something illegal?”
“Illegal? No, no…what’s illegal?”
Jelaqua eyed Kevin as he patted at his bag of holding. The Drake sighed.
“Anything made of or containing Crelers parts in any way. Area-of-effect spells above Tier 4. Alchemical items of similar hazardous nature—unless you’re an adventurer or have specific documents, anything of that nature is prohibited and subject to confiscation. You did read the rules of entry, sir?”
“Every day of my life. Uh, well, it’s none of those things, but I don’t really want to turn it over. So I may just, uh, go back. This way.”
Kevin was edging out of the checkpoint. The [Guard] gave him a sharp look, but the young man was already heading towards the door to the inn. Jelaqua wavered.
The [Guard] seemed to be on the verge of calling for Kevin to get back or sending someone after him, but his focused glare at Kevin suddenly wavered, as if he’d forgotten why it mattered. Jelaqua whistled as he called out in a bored voice.
“Next?”
She stepped out of line and called over to Emessa.
“Emessa, I’m staying with Randy. Maughin doesn’t need me if they’re talking metals.”
“Great, so I’m going to be the only woman in the room?”
The Drake groused. She cast Jelaqua a pleading expression; the Selphid gave her a thumbs up.
“No, no…I’m sure Grimalkin will bring Pryde.”
“Oh, great.”
Jelaqua turned and didn’t miss the way the Drake at the checkpoint glowered at Lady Pryde Ulta’s name. Uh oh. Well, nothing to do with her, she hoped.
 
——
 
Back at the inn, Kevin was feeling at his bag of holding.
“Damn. That was close.”
“Got something dangerous in there?”
“I didn’t think they’d detect it! Plus, they’re not load—they won’t even work! I guess ammo counts. I think I’d better stay out of Pallass for a sec, Jelaqua. My Skill works on them a bit, but they might notice me coming back.”
Jelaqua shrugged, agreeing. At that moment, Rinli hurried through the door with a City Runner no less, who strode into Pallass with all the things Pelt needed. She halted.
“Kevin? You’re not going to Pallass?”
“I, uh, had a security problem. We’re hanging here!”
He grinned sheepishly at her, and Jelaqua raised her brows. She still didn’t know what Kevin was up to, but she was determined to keep him out of trouble. Well, more than he’d been in.
He had some kind of weapon that he didn’t want Pallass to see and could let him kill a Beaker by himself. That wasn’t a small thing, and she’d glossed over that in her concern for him. 
Earth-weapons, no doubt. Jelaqua Ivirith was the first to admit she wasn’t big on the Earth-conspiracy. Everyone in the inn knew that Erin was from another world. It sort of came up the longer you stayed there.
But exactly what that meant…? Jelaqua was no Grimalkin. Erin had ice cream and weird secrets. So did most people. So she just observed Kevin as Rinli decided she was staying too.
“Oh, that’s right, Kevin. Nanette said someone you were looking for was here. Rhaldon.”
Kevin turned, and his eyes lit up with that familiar-unfamiliar glow of excitement and determination. He exhaled.
“Ah. In that case, glad I missed Pallass. Rinli, d’you know how much gold…? Actually, I can borrow whatever I need from Lyonette. I need a quick word with Rhaldon, then I’ve got work for us.”
He rubbed his hands as Jelaqua’s brows rose. She exchanged a glance with Rinli, and she felt something in the air. Like the calm before an Erin moment, but it was a Kevin moment.
A Hall moment.
No, that sounded horrible.
 
——
 
Rhaldon Flemmens didn’t speak a word for a long while as he sat in Stitchworks. He just gazed at Kevin until the other young man realized…no one had told Rhaldon he was back from the dead. He’d just popped up with a clap on the shoulder and launched into questions.
“Hey. Kevin, right? You’re looking pretty good. Did I mishear Octavia last time or…I heard you were dead. Must have been the wrong person. Sorry.”
They had never met before. Maybe the two had seen each other in passing, but Kevin Hall and Rhaldon Flemmens had never shared so many words. But they knew of each other, certainly. And Rhaldon was smiling in that embarrassed way of someone still new to the inn. He had never been there for Erin’s death or return.
There was a wobble in the [Alchemist]’s voice. Kevin’s face grew somber, and he stepped back. He smiled and brushed at his hair, but his next words didn’t reassure the [Alchemist].
“No, you heard right. I was dead.”
Rhaldon’s eyes flickered, and that moment of disbelief, panic, was eclipsed by rational thought.
“Interesting. So you faked it or were you pulled out of a coma like Erin?”
“No, dead-dead. I got shot through the chest. Died. Uh, sorry. I should have explained properly. But I don’t…we’ve never met.”
Now, Rhaldon was swinging his eyes from Rinli to Jelaqua in the way of someone who thought they were being pranked. But the two had faces so grave that it was unnerving him. He was still smiling. Kevin rubbed at his chest, just above his heart.
“Sorry, dude. It’s something that can happen in this world. But it’s never easy. And it won’t happen that way twice.”
That was it. Rhaldon grew visibly angrier, and his nostrils flared as he drew in a breath.
“Listen, if this is some prank or Solstice thing I’m not getting…”
“I died.”
Even Jelaqua started at the sudden intensity of Kevin’s tone. The [Mechanic] gazed around Octavia’s empty shop, then hissed at Rhaldon.
“It’s not a joke. Roshal’s [Assassin] shot and killed me and nearly did for Imani. I died, and I know you were warned about that. This isn’t a game, man. I don’t have a scar, but I can tell you exactly how it felt. I was dead, and I came back. Just like Erin. And I’m not the only one. I—sorry. Sorry…it’s not a joke.”
He let go of Rhaldon’s shirt, and Jelaqua released her grip on his arm. The [Alchemist] was wide-eyed, and he leaned back as far as he could in his seat. Kevin backed up a step, panting.
Rhaldon’s face was pale. He turned to Jelaqua, then Rinli, for confirmation, then he nodded tightly. He winced as he checked himself, and Jelaqua noticed Rhaldon was injured. He was pressing ice against some bandages on his chest. It must have hurt when Kevin grabbed him, and his face turned guilty.
“Dude, what happened to your ribs?”
“Horse kick. I don’t think they’re broken. Just really bruised. I’m—sorry about not getting it.”
“No, that was wrong of me. I’m sorry. It’s just—it happened.”
Rhaldon stared at Kevin. And whatever he saw in the other young man’s eyes turned his skin a shade paler. He searched for words, swallowed.
“Good to know. After Erin—well, I guess it’s easier than I thought?”
“No. No, it’s not.”
After a moment, Kevin gestured lamely at the ribs.
“So what was that? Mugging or trouble on the road?”
Rhaldon glanced down. He laughed, shakily, then winced.
“Ow, damn—no. It was when I was unloading the carriage in Invrisil. One of my stupid horses kicked me.”
“Ooh.”
That was a universal wince of pain from Jelaqua, Rinli, and Kevin. Rhaldon checked on the bandages around his chest.
“I’ve decided I hate horses. And ponies. And donkeys, mules…I don’t know how Termin ever found his two. Nor do I want to gain Skills for them. This is why I want to figure out…”
He mumbled to himself as Kevin felt at his belt. Then the [Mechanic] handed Rhaldon a familiar, glowing vial of green liquid—but the label was clear.
“Here, try this.”
The healing potion made Rinli and Jelaqua start. Rhaldon stared at it longingly, then waved it away.
“I can’t. Thank you, but it’ll heal. That has to cost more than I could deliver in a month.”
“Dude, take it. We have lots.”
Jelaqua’s head swung to Kevin as Rhaldon hesitated, then popped the potion and drank gratefully. His eyes popped, then he was gasping in relief.
“Argh, that really hurt for one second—wow, that’s better. I should see about reinventing those—not that anyone can. There’s a [Polymath] named Zeomtoril up north who’s been trying for ages, but Eir Gel is pretty unique stuff, sadly. I had to do a shipment of five healing potions; I had a guard of twenty, and it was more gold than I’ve ever carried.”
He was blabbering a bit, probably in shock from Kevin and the healing. The young man nodded as he looked around Stitchworks and lowered his voice.
“Hey, mind if we switch somewhere quieter? The potion’s secret, and so am I—the name’s Randy now. You can trust Rinli, and you’ve met Jelaqua, right?”
She waved at him, and Rhaldon hesitated.
“Selphid, right? Halfseekers?”
“Formerly.”
“Oh, right…you’re retired?”
“Close. My team died.”
A pause. Rhaldon stared at Kevin and Rinli to make sure she wasn’t joking, then bowed his head.
“I’m so sorry.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t a great day for Rhaldon Flemmens. The horse kick hurt like hell, and that had been as he was unloading Octavia’s stuff. He didn’t even feel like he deserved it.
Healing it was nice, but the double-whammy of Kevin and the state of the inn had him off-kilter. He hadn’t noticed the Winter Solstice, even. Oh, he’d felt something was off, but Erin’s [Leased Room] hadn’t even flickered or done anything.
He’d just…travelled across Izril, going from Calidus, who was still making his potions, to other [Alchemists], and coming back to swap notes with Octavia and Saliss. They were his two friends, but Saliss had left for the New Lands, and Octavia had broken up with Numbtongue, so she was highly depressed.
Rhaldon just wanted to work on his chemistry projects between building gold up. It wasn’t like he was avoiding the inn…he was just avoiding it because he feared it, for all Erin had done for him. Seeing her stabbing a man to death—that was hard.
Kevin? You could tell he’d come back from the dead. Rhaldon hadn’t believed it until he’d looked into Kevin’s eyes and seen something actually apocryphal there. The [Alchemist] wasn’t a big fan of fantasy or books on magic; he had once heard of someone’s eyes described like ‘voids into the abyss’ and closed the book and rolled his eyes.
Kevin had eyes like that. Like someone who’d seen something so vivid, so horrific—or maybe terribly sad—that a piece of it remained. It only came out when he got angry.
Saliss had eyes like that sometimes. That convinced Rhaldon. Erin had the same expression. Of course, he wondered if it was the commonality of people who’d had near-death experiences. But regardless, it was true.
He had heard Kevin was dead. Shot.
Now he was here, and Rhaldon didn’t see the happy-go-lucky jokester that Octavia had described. He was chaotic, spontaneous—and unnerving. In a different way from Erin. Rhaldon had always felt like Erin was a few steps ahead of him, predicting what he was doing.
Kevin…he genuinely believed Kevin was acting as things came to him.
For instance, when Kevin led Rhaldon into the [Garden of Sanctuary] to talk, he turned and handed Rhaldon something. As if it were something ordinary and he’d just thought to ask.
“Here. You’re a [Alchemist], right, Rhaldon? What do you make of this? Think you could make any more?”
Rhaldon gazed down blankly at the item that Kevin had handed him and dropped it as if it were electric. He stared at the object that landed in the grass as Kevin swore and scooped it up. He wanted to believe it was fake, but…there was no mistaking the look of it.
The shotgun shell from the future glinted in the light as Kevin held it up. Rinli and Jelaqua were peering at it. Rhaldon was having trouble breathing suddenly. His shoulder was burning in pain.
The shoulder where he’d been shot during a protest back on Earth.
“Where—where did you get that? Did someone bring it with them? It needs to be destroyed at once!”
Destroyed and the traces burned or vaporized. Given what Rhaldon suspected about Skills, even a trace sample would allow someone to reproduce it! Zeomtoril could. However, Kevin was inspecting the shotgun shell and glanced up.
“Not that I know of, but I’d bet someone came armed. If they don’t have it, I know other nations are working on it. Roshal has flintlocks. That’s how they shot me. This? This is a magical shotgun shell. It runs on magicore and gunpowder. I know a few parts, but I don’t know how to make actual gunpowder. Think you could make some more?”
He went to hand the shell back, and Rhaldon stepped back.
“What? No! Are you insane? That’s the last thing this world needs!”
Belatedly, it seemed to occur to Kevin that Rhaldon might not instantly want to jump on the ‘make guns’ train. He held up his hands.
“Sorry, dude. I’ve just been thinking about this all month. Hear me out—”
“No. This is beyond the pale of—if someone has a firearm, I’d try to destroy it and any ammunition. Bringing guns into this world is a terrible idea. Why would you come to me with—do you know how I came to this world?”
“No. How?”
“I was shot! Termin saved me from bleeding out on the road! I probably still have bullet fragments in my shoulder—and you want me to reproduce that? As if it’s even easy?”
Rhaldon snapped. He wiped his hands on his coat, and Kevin winced. But that uncanny light in his eyes was still there.
“Shit. Sorry, dude.”
“Don’t ‘dude’ me. This is no laughing matter. Give that to me and I’ll destroy it. If we’re lucky, no one will make more of them.”
Rhaldon stretched out his hand, and Kevin closed his grip on the shell protectively.
“What? No. I need it. Listen, Rhaldon. Firearms are the least of our problems. People already have ‘em. Roshal shot me with some, remember?”
This was true. Rhaldon hesitated, then gestured at the shell.
“That’s modern. That’s from home—Octavia described what sounded like a blackpowder flintlock. The difference between that and a modern weapon is unimaginable.”
“I know. The stuff you can make works well enough. But I need something better.”
Kevin rubbed at his shoulder for reasons Rhaldon didn’t understand, and the [Alchemist] felt like he was inhaling something noxious, because reality wasn’t lining up with—he tried to calm himself. Steady his heartbeat.
“Kevin, I’m suggesting you get rid of that ammunition. Where did it come from?”
“The future. It’s not from Earth. It’s magical ammunition from the future, Rhaldon. Aw, shit, you don’t know about that too.”
Kevin waved the shotgun shell in front of Rhaldon with a slight smile, then slapped his forehead. Then, and only then, did Rhaldon reconsider.
Maybe that wasn’t the light of someone who had died in his eyes. Maybe he was just—crazy.
A chill ran up Rhaldon’s spine, and he was reassured by being in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He licked his lips.
“Kevin. You’re making a lot of statements I find hard to believe. First you tell me you came back from the dead, next you’re telling me we’ve got time travel?”
In a world as nonsensical as this, it could happen. Yet Rhaldon felt like when he’d first come to this place. Too much insanity and he’d crack and think he was hallucinating. Or just not believe—Kevin shook his head and stuck his hands in his pockets.
“Nah. It all connects, Rhaldon. I’m going to make it all make sense in one—two words.”
“Go ahead?”
Rhaldon closed his eyes. There was no way—
“Parallel dimensions?”
“Holy fuck, you are smart.”
Kevin actually jumped as Rhaldon’s eyes opened. The [Alchemist]’s mouth worked, but he managed to reply.
“I enjoy science-fiction more than…you’re not serious.”
Kevin grinned, and Rhaldon felt his skin growing clammy. He was hyperventilating.
“Tell me everything. From the start, please.”
 
——
 
When Rhaldon got stressed, he took notes. Or maybe he just took notes. Kevin Hall would be the first to admit he’d bungled the entire conversation, but you had to own, there was no good way to lead with, ‘I’m back from the dead, I have ammunition from the future, and there were parallel worlds; how was your last few months?’
It looked even worse written down. Which is what Rhaldon had done, making a series of bubbles that linked from event to event.
“So you’re telling me that this all took place over about two days—”
“Longer if you count Mrsha and Rags messing around in the [Palace of Fates], but sure.”
“A week, then. Millions of parallel worlds opened and collapsed in a week, there was a war of worlds, and the entire Skill broke down as people either entered an entirely new reality—which is not the same as a different dimension—and those who remained came back to life, like you?”
Kevin thought about it and lifted a finger as Rhaldon showed him his journal filled with the flow-chart of events. He scratched at his head.
“Technically, I never died, so I didn’t lose levels. We just soul-merged.”
Rhaldon’s fingers twitched, like he wanted to rip the journal entry out of his notebook and possibly his head. He inhaled and exhaled.
“I saw the news about the Goblin King. I felt that. That’s…evidence. As well as Pallass’ 2nd Army and that Goblin Lord, Ragathsi? She was using Skills that sounded modern. But how can you prove any of this, Kevin? I have no evidence from where I’m standing that this occurred.”
Kevin pointed at his face.
“I’m back from the dead.”
Here, the [Alchemist] bit his lip.
“We hadn’t met before you died. So that…isn’t the…best proof. Sorry.”
He received the most insulted expression from Kevin the young man had ever given someone. Kevin pointed up.
“Taken a look at the moons recently?”
Rhaldon had, in fact, and wondered what could cause damage on that scope. The [Alchemist] felt that sensation of sweat beading on his spine again. He shook his head.
“That’s…okay, I see something happened. But that shotgun shell is the only thing the future gave you?”
“That, a wagonload of healing potions, a bunch of items Mrsha and Ushar took—the Goblin King—look, I can see you’re not used to The Wandering Inn.”
“I’ve seen enough.”
Erin standing on a ship in the rain, pushing a [Prince] off her knife. Reaching down and taking a Goblin Lord’s hand. A flaming Antinium blazing with glory.
Calidus asked him sometimes why Rhaldon didn’t want a sedentary life like Zeomtoril or other [Alchemists]. The answer was that the north wasn’t that appealing to Rhaldon, or Calidus himself. But here…
This is why I stay away. However, he was confronting reality and clearly missing out on the truth if everything Kevin said was to be believed. Rhaldon pressed his fingers to his temples.
“Let me ask follow-up questions later. Assuming everything you’ve said is true, and I recall Erin’s warnings about the Winter Solstice—that I can believe. I heard of other undead attacks at the time. I even saw them.”
Kevin started.
“You did? Did they come after—?”
Rhaldon waved his hand.
“I didn’t. Lord Callidus said there were two Ghoul packs his people took care of, but it might have been chance. There was a broadcast of one of the Jaws of Zeikhal that Khelt had going crazy. And other undead attacks—someone said they saw the Singer under attack, but that’s just a rumor.”
He’d put together the Ghoul packs with other events and wondered if they’d been searching for him. Compared to hundreds of thousands of Draugr, it wasn’t bad, but it still gave him nightmares to realize they were following him. Kevin’s features softened.
“I’m sorry about that. Well, that’s why I need help, Rhaldon. With this—”
He had the shotgun shell around. Rhaldon wished he’d stop waving it about so carelessly. He knew it wouldn’t combust randomly, but it was still a shell, and if Kevin was to be believed, made of magic. The right percussive force and bam.
“Stop playing with that, please. Was it machined? Hand-made?”
“Machined. Future tech. Want to see?”
Part of Rhaldon did. He inspected the shell gingerly, turning it over and seeing how yes, it did look very analogous to his world. But a few details caught his eyes; the shell didn’t seem to be made of the exact same plastic he remembered. It almost felt…harder? The red a bit too vivid, the plastic giving it a sturdier feel.
This is from another world. This is—none of this is like something you could produce from home. Even the ‘brass’ cap at the bottom was slightly off. All of it either told Rhaldon this was an amazing fake or was indeed the product of different times.
But one thing caught his eye, engraved on the plastic. Rhaldon stared at the detail on the shotgun shell, then spoke.
“I’m beginning to believe what you told me is correct, Kevin. But that doesn’t change how I feel. Making weapons to kill people isn’t something I ever wanted to do, in this or any other world. I’m glad you’re alive. I’m not making bullets for you. If that’s why you wanted to speak to me so urgently—”
Kevin was getting upset. He gestured at his right eye, glaring.
“Dude, this isn’t even about the future or other worlds. It’s about Roshal. They shot Imani’s eye out and shot me. They’ve got guns. I need help making them. You don’t have to make an entire industry, just enough for one person.”
Wow, that was a great argument. They have guns, we need guns. Rhaldon decided not to take it to politics from home. He folded his arms.
“So, what, you can go around Rambo-style and gun down all your enemies?”
“That’s the plan.”
The glib response that Rhaldon had on the tip of his tongue dried up at the way Kevin just said it like that. He gazed down at the shell and shook his head.
“Where did you get this from, in the future?”
“Twenty-two years in a future where the Goblin King appears. Would you believe a version of me with a shotgun and magical syphilis had it? And a magic tank?”
“I don’t believe I’m awake. I think I’ve hit my head after the damn horse kicked me. Okay….tell me something. I know, uh, some of the guests of the inn here and the family. Remind me, who’s Rabbiteater?”
Kevin’s eyes flickered. He glanced at the shell that Rhaldon was holding, but he couldn’t lie, so he replied haltingly.
“…One of the Hobgoblins that Erin helped. He stayed at the inn once. Later, in this future-world, he becomes…”
“The Goblin King. I see.”
There was only one reason you wrote a name on a bullet. Rhaldon peered down at the hand-engraved name on the shotgun shell.
Rabbiteater.
He handed it back to Kevin.
“That sounds like a fun future world. No thanks.”
“Listen, man—in the future he’s a bad guy, the Goblin King who you saw on television. I just need help making—”
“No.”
Rhaldon got up and brushed grass off his pants. He stared at the yellow flowers and Sage’s Grass blooming around them.
What happened to the Faerie Flowers? Then Rhaldon shook his head. This was all too much for him. He began walking towards the door back to the common room. He was feeling at his shoulder, and he had a vision of someone pointing a gun his way—Kevin chased after him.
“Listen, you’re the only person who can make this! The only person who gets the risks. Saliss is gone, and Octavia—”
Rhaldon swung around, and he was nose-to-nose with Kevin.
“I do not want to help you kill people! I’m glad you’re alive, but you’re acting kind of psychotic right now, dude. I’m a [Alchemist], not an [Arms Manufacturer]! I don’t want to make weapons of war to kill people.”
His voice cracked as he pointed at the little capsule of death that Kevin held. The [Mechanic] started, and a guilty expression crossed his face. He put the shotgun shell away at last.
“…Sorry. I’ve been obsessed about—I forgot that’s how you came to this world. Some police officer shot you? That’s a hell of a way to get teleported.”
The two calmed down slightly as Kevin stepped back. Rhaldon half-shrugged.
“Might have been the national guard. Anyways, it’s better than a truck.”
Rhaldon felt at his aching shoulder and wished he had another sip of the healing potion, though he was sure it was just phantom pain. Kevin frowned.
“A truck? Oh, right, good one. People are still into portal fiction back home?”
“It’s the most popular genre. Something about it hitting way too close to home…give me a second, would you?”
Rhaldon was rubbing at his face. He felt like he’d aged a year just seeing the weapon Kevin held. He needed a lie-down, and his wagon was in Invrisil…Kevin hesitated guiltily.
“Sure. Sorry.”
After a while, Rhaldon looked up.
“It’s not out of the question someone will bring a gun from Earth. I’m not an idiot; I just don’t want to be part of this. I have no expertise in this area, anyways. Working with gunpowder is exceptionally dangerous even by my standards.”
“I get it. It’s okay, man.”
Kevin shoved his hands in his pockets. Rhaldon gestured at the shotgun shell.
“Besides, that’s ammunition. It’s not something you’d hand-craft but mass-produce. You’re probably the better class for it. You don’t even have the firearm, and that’s the harder part.”
The [Mechanic] rubbed at his shoulders again and picked out some dead skin with a grimace.
“Yep. I’ve got a primitive bazooka, but that’s about all. Nearly dislocated both my shoulders, but it works.”
“…What?”
Kevin touched his bag of holding, and his eyes rose, and there that uncanny look was again. He glanced at the door to the inn, but Jelaqua and Rinli had given them a moment.
“It’s just a tube filled with a Potion of Blast and shrapnel. Well, I put a bit more work into it, but the kickback and loading—I mean it, man. I came back from the dead to change the world. And if you don’t want to help me build weapons, that’s fine. I hear you’re making something else I’m into. Rose says you were working on…an engine? I’ve had ideas there too. Wanna chat?”
Ah, and there it was. Rhaldon stood there and stared at Kevin’s bag of holding like it was Pandora’s Box. Then, he thought he caught the faint acrid odor of alchemical potions around Kevin, though it always hung around Rhaldon so he often just didn’t smell it.
Madness in his eyes, someone field-testing weapons with his own life on the line. Rhaldon’s first thought was to back away slowly and never engage with Kevin again. But his treacherous mind had to ask questions.
“There is no way you made a working—you’d have blown yourself to bits! How did you not rupture a steel tube?”
Making a rocket launcher was not that simple. But Kevin shrugged.
“I tested it, of course. And I had Pelt.”
“Pelt. Oh—the Master Pelt?”
Rhaldon felt a surge of excitement and envy. He hadn’t had any help except from reluctant [Smiths] who hadn’t gotten what he was trying to carefully get parts for. Kevin nodded.
“Yep. You can trust him, and he made it out of Mithril. Hedault didn’t want to be part of it, either, but Rinli has lesser enchantments she can hook me up with. Money’s not a problem, even if I needed Lyonette’s…field testing sucked, but it did work.”
So he’d made a functional—in how many days? Rhaldon had been working on his project in his spare time, but he was fighting against suppliers, his own ineptitude with machining pieces, and a lack of understanding how to fuse magic with Earth’s technology.
But Kevin—Kevin of Solar Cycles stood there, that manic glint in his eyes. He knew what Rhaldon was up to.
“Give—give me a moment to think on it? All my stuff’s in Invrisil.”
“Sure, Rhaldon. You know where to find me. Well, here or Solar Cycles. Sorry about springing all that on you, again.”
Rhaldon nodded once. Then he wobbled out into the inn to go find his carriage for a second. He had to trek back to it in Invrisil. But inside, he stared at the room he’d leased from Erin and the objects strewn about it.
After staring upside-down at one particular contraption, Rhaldon muttered to himself.
“Damn guns.”
He produced the bag of holding Calidus had given him, swept a few inventions into it, and sighed.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith might not have gotten the context of Kevin and Rhaldon’s heated conversation in the [Garden of Sanctuary], but she understood enough from watching the two young men leave. When Kevin slumped back into the garden, he threw himself onto the ground.
“Shit. That was my best chance.”
He glanced up as Jelaqua leaned on the wall of the garden dome next to him.
“Planning on doing a lot of killing, Kevin?”
He stared down at his hands. He still had the shotgun shell in hand, and he studied it and the name written there.
“I dunno. Maybe? I never thought I’d say it, but Erin’s bad at killing people. Or she’s got too many enemies. Seems to me like it’d make everything so much cleaner and simpler if someone stepped up.”
“It won’t. Take it from me.”
Jelaqua’s pupils were glowing a faint orange, and Kevin glowered at her.
“I’m not going to go around just shooting everyone. You think if Roshal’s [Slave Lords] died tomorrow, the world wouldn’t get better?”
She stared at the ceiling.
“Yeah, in some ways. But they’d just make more of them; shoot the Hydra’s heads and they always grow back. Sometimes nastier than you think a replacement could be. It’s very hard to kill your way out of a problem, Kevin. Believe me. I’ve tried it.”
The young man was angry. Shaken from his near-death experience. He began to retort when his brain finally caught up with his ears. Then he peered up at her as Rinli glanced at Jelaqua.
“Tried it how? Like, you were a [Mercenary] in Baleros. That’s not what I meant. I mean—I’m not trying to fight a war. I don’t even know how to get at…what do you mean?”
The Selphid glanced at Rinli. The [Assistant] took the cue and stepped back. Then Jelaqua just stared ahead.
“The funny thing about living until you’re as old as I am is that you get tired, Kevin. Tired of one life—so you switch. I used to be a poor [Fisher]. Then a [Bounty Hunter]. I killed plenty of people just to make coins. Felt like that wasn’t getting me anywhere, switched to [Mercenary], ran a company. Got a lot of people killed…on my side and theirs. Went off. Became a Silver-rank adventurer. Realized it felt better helping people than killing them.”
He listened, toying with the shell, as she stared ahead.
“Funny thing about being a Halfseeker—it’s not easy. Your entire motto is about being someone there for those who are alone, and plenty of people decide that’s a personal attack. You stand between the little white Gnoll and their tribe and you’re the bad guy.”
“Mrsha? No…you’ve met Doombearers before?”
She didn’t answer that. Jelaqua went on steadily.
“You find them in any city you come to. There always has to be someone everyone hates. Half-Elves amongst Humans. Scorchlings amongst Drakes. Gnolls amongst Drakes. Doombearers amongst Gnolls…the species change, but you get so tired of trying to do the right thing. Moore never got tired. But even he lost his patience.”
She remembered the expression of wrath on his face, and her heart hurt. So, Jelaqua whispered.
“Sometimes…you just wonder if the big, bad [Lord] goes away then maybe that solves it. If that one bastard vanishes and it appears all innocent? Maybe they stop throwing stones. Only, then his daughter decides he was right. Or his [Chamberlain]. Or just that loudmouth who thought Lord So-And-So had a point. And then your bag of holding is getting full, and people are asking questions, and you’re sitting in a graveyard stitching a face onto a corpse at midnight and you ask yourself whether this is better.”
“Jesus. But didn’t it help? What’re you supposed to do when the bastards come calling? When they shoot you for just existing?”
Kevin was feeling at his chest. Grimacing like Rhaldon. Jelaqua Ivirith regarded him. And she saw a rookie. Not someone in the wrong field, but a rookie. Gently, she squatted down next to him and sat in the grass.
“I never said you stop fighting. Every now and then there’s a Dragial, and you charge and he dies because you don’t let him get away. I’m just saying, Kevin…if you want to halt things, you’d better either have Rhaldon make you a thousand of those things, one for every single person in the crowd, or you’d better find the magic Erin has.”
He thought about it.
“…Beating down rioters with her friends?”
She cuffed him lightly. Jelaqua pointed to the shell in his hands.
“Sure. You know what I mean. That’s not your first weapon, Kevin. That’s the one they never see coming. They never shot you because they thought you were making weapons. They shot you because of Solar Cycles. Because of her.”
She pointed at Rinli, and Kevin’s eyes rose. He glanced at his [Assistant], the young woman who could put together a bicycle blindfolded and do a three sixty also blindfolded, and she waved at him. Kevin glanced down at the red tube between his fingers and put it away.
“—Well, I feel stupid now. I guess…I guess I’ve been feeling like I have to be that warrior I saw. But he looked fucking miserable. Thanks, Jelaqua.”
She hugged him one-armed, which turned into a real hug. And she whispered as she patted him on the back.
“Once you kill one of them, you’re dead too. I’d rather have this silly guy. Maybe it’s worth it to take out one bastard even if it costs your life or you’re on the run forever—but I was always too scared.”
She gave him a shamefaced expression as he gazed at her, searching her face for the moments in her long history she meant. Jelaqua just turned her head.
“Hey, Rinli, we’re done! I think what we all need is to get poor Rhaldon some food and start over, agreed? What say you all we get a pizza?”
Kevin smiled faintly as he dug his hands to his pockets and seemed to relax for the first time since she’d seen him.
“Yeah. That sounds nice.”
 
——
 
Rhaldon reappeared sooner than anyone expected, seeming less rested, but slightly better.
“I’ve given your proposal thought, Kevin. I’ve run into setbacks by myself, and I’d love help—with my projects, if you’re willing to chat. As for yours—”
“Hey, your projects are good enough for me. C’mon in. Want pizza?”
Kevin rose and ushered him to the table with pizza. They were in a private room of the inn, and Asgra was taking orders. It seemed they’d made up, and Kevin was the first to properly apologize.
“Dude. It was my fault. I should have known how crazy I sounded. If I were in your shoes and you told me to join the military-industrial complex, I’d have told you to shove a wrench up your ass. I get it.”
“I’m not saying I don’t understand. I’m just saying that I don’t want to be part of it, nor am I necessarily that guy. But just so we’re clear, what you’re doing—you were lucky to not break your shoulders and kill yourself.”
“I know.”
Kevin heaved a huge sigh as Jelaqua eyed them both and Rinli frowned. Rhaldon waited.
“Are you going to continue?”
“Yep.”
Silence. Kevin gestured at the table.
“C’mon, we’ve got pizza. Pepperoni, some awesome vegetarian stuff—it’s honestly the best—and for some reason, pineapple.”
He glared at Asgra. The Cave Goblin smirked.
“Is on the house.”
“Take it back.”
“I can eat pineapple.”
Rhaldon muttered, feeling at his bag of holding. Kevin gave him a long look.
“Dude, I respect that you forgave me, but I’d rather be shot twice than eat pineapple pizza. That’s the one perk of dying; you can make jokes like that.”
They were tucking into their pizzas, and the pineapple was indeed underrepresented in slices eaten, and everyone was feeling better for the hot food. Jelaqua glanced at the rain coming down and grimaced.
“I can’t believe Liscor is still rainy. I know it’s an eighth of the year, but still.”
“Oh, it’ll be muddy too. Miserable to pull anything around in. You’re lucky the magic door is here, Rhaldon.”
Kevin assured them, and Rhaldon rubbed at his ribs again.
“I believe that. But I just think I’m done with horses. They were always the worst part of driving a carriage; I don’t mind the road, and people aren’t racist to me. Just speciesist. Which is great. I think I’m done with draft animals altogether if I can help it.”
“Driver Rhaldon, are you going to rent a magical Wistram Carriage? It’s not cost-effective even with their speed. I priced it out for Solar Cycles and Couriers end up being cheaper.”
Rinli was chewing on her pizza. Rhaldon shook his head slightly. He glanced around at the door and opened his mouth; Rinli kicked it shut and slapped something on it.
“Anti-eavesdropping charms. Everyone in Solar Cycles has to have them. We’re secure from everything except the Thronebearers.”
Kevin gave her a thumbs-up, and Rhaldon reached into his bag of holding. He glanced at Kevin.
“So how’d you burn yourself? I can see the burn marks on your shoulders. Was it from the opening?”
“Nope. The opening at the bottom doesn’t vent right. Instead of going back, it sort of explodes everywhere.”
“Jesus wept. And you did it twice? You made two?”
Jelaqua and Rinli eyed Kevin as he picked at his shoulders again.
“Well, yeah. Never just carry one. Got any tips?”
From the expression on Rhaldon’s face, he probably had a few that involved not getting burnt, but he just exhaled and shook his head.
“This is my project. Please don’t laugh. I’ve tried to talk to [Smiths], but they don’t get it or they’re busy and I can’t explain what I want. I thought about talking to Calidus, but…secrecy. You know?”
Kevin’s eyes sharpened.
“Definitely. Rinli, I’m working with Rhaldon here on what he’s after. Can you help?”
“Of course. Is this also secret? Hello, Driver Rhaldon, I’m Rinli, the head of Solar Cycles with Kevin being officially dead.”
Rinli smiled, and Rhaldon, flustered, shook her hand.
“I’m sorry, I never introduced myself—”
“It’s quite alright, sir. You get used to it if you interact with the inn at all. Kevin, secret?”
“The tops, Rinli. Okay, what’ve you got, Rhaldon?”
The [Alchemist] glanced at Jelaqua. She waved at him.
“Hey, I’m just here as a friend.”
An inquisitive look at Kevin and the [Mechanic] nodded.
“Jelaqua’s someone you can trust. So’s Asgra, in a way. Anyone who’s part of the inn except for the Calanferians are solid. So are Solar Cycles, at least the ones Rinli trusts. What’ve you made?”
Rhaldon grimaced at the weight, but pulled something out of his bag of holding carefully and slid it onto the table.
“Tell me, what do you think? Of the concept?”
To Jelaqua, it was an amalgamation of steel crudely fused with wood. To Rinli, it was a prototype made by someone who didn’t have the best ability to work the materials given, but knew what they wanted. To Kevin? He stared at the flat cylinder of wax with the flame burning on the top.
The Everburning Candle was heating a test tube in which water was condensing and bubbling upwards. The vapors led to a wheel that spun haltingly, and there was a bit of string tied to the wheel which, like a bicycle’s gears, were trying to move a second wheel, this one rolling around in the air.
The entire contraption barely worked because the candle was failing to heat the water enough, and the string and wheel weren’t capturing the steam and transmitting the motion to the other wheel. Lots of marks on the metal and wood showed where Rhaldon had built and rebuilt the prototype with frustration. But Kevin saw it, and his eyes lit up.
“Dude. Is that a perpetual steam engine? It is! That’s an Everburning Candle, isn’t it? I wanted to get my hands on one of those! They’re expensive and rare! How’d you get one?”
Rhaldon smiled faintly. Rinli had sat up at the name Kevin had used, which she’d read before in his blueprints…Jelaqua was just eating pizza. Listening. The [Alchemist] pointed at the water.
“It’s not perpetual. Unless I can store the vapor, that needs refilling. I thought with some Everfrozen Ice you could condense and re-use the water…? It’s too complicated, frankly. Also, steam explodes in a really violent way. I have a lot of destroyed cylinders…even with gold, I don’t have the manufacturing experience.”
“That’s us. Rinli?”
“I’ve seen your version of this, Kevin. Master Pelt nearly killed you making it; this is simpler by far.”
“Well, I was working on the entire thing. Rhaldon, what’re you thinking? Steam? For your carriage?”
It seemed Kevin and Rhaldon spoke the same language of sorts, though it was all incomprehensible to Jelaqua. Rhaldon did smile.
“I did think it’d replace horses. With magic, you can make this so much more efficient, or possibly, infinite. I’m told the Everburning Candles really burn mana, so it’s still some kind of cost, but yes, steam is where I’d start. Either that or a magicore engine, but I like the concept of steam. It’s just—volatile.”
He shuddered. Kevin was vibrating. He leapt up.
“Rinli, in my safe—”
“[Collect Document]. This one?”
She handed something to him, and he swore.
“Damn, you’ve seen it?”
“I did go through your safe when you died, Kevin.”
She gave him an apologetic look, and Kevin shook his head.
“Here, Rhaldon, look at this. Wait, I’ve got the other one upstairs! I used it to fool a bunch of [Merchants] when Zevara was investigating—I’ll grab it!”
He went clattering out of the room. Rhaldon began spreading the blueprints on the table, and Jelaqua and Rinli helped. He looked at the two, embarrassed as he remembered they existed. He turned to Jelaqua.
“So Captain Ivirith…”
“You can call me Jelaqua. Or Miss Ivirith. I’m not a Gold-ranker anymore, just a [Loving Wife].”
His brows rose.
“I didn’t know that was a class. I shouldn’t be surprised. Is Kevin always like…?”
He gestured at the stairs, and Rinli shook her head.
“He’s been more driven since he came back. Personality-wise, he’s always been chaotic.”
“It happens. Someone loses a friend or sees a real battle and it changes you.”
Jelaqua was a bit sad that Kevin had lost that innocence, but more worried what he might do with that determination. Because they saw it, even if it was catching Rhaldon off-guard.
Another bit of silence as they munched on pizza, then Rhaldon turned to Jelaqua.
“May I ask a question about Selphid physiology if it’s not too rude?”
“Sure, if you explain what a ‘physiology’ is.”
She teased him, and Rhaldon blushed faintly.
“I was wondering. I know Selphids have to change bodies constantly, but couldn’t you manufacture an artificial one? Replace organs rather than change bodies? Skin would be harder, but hasn’t anyone made a permanent body?”
The question caught both Rinli and Jelaqua off-guard, for different reasons. Jelaqua smiled, impressed.
“What, did you date a Selphid? Of course it’s been tried—and done! But mostly, the reason we use dead bodies is that anything else is too advanced for this continent. No one likes hacking up bodies so no one’s good at it. I knew some Selphids who’d replace as much of their bodies as they could. Magical prosthesis. One even commissioned a Golem that was practically like a body!”
Rinli’s eyes lit up like Kevin’s did.
“Oh! That sounds pretty interesting! Why don’t Selphids do that?”
Jelaqua counted on her fingers.
“Well, for one, the cost. Two, we have no biological levers to pull. We can’t use the bodily functions the same way. Three? The poor fellow nearly died of dehydration. Not a good environment; half his body got pinched when the Golem squished him. No give to wood instead of flesh.”
Rhaldon was nodding.
“Ah, right. Still, I wonder if you could pilot a mech or an artificial body like a real one? Earth has more advanced materials, and if you had like a jelly or mucous membrane inside a contained environment…”
“I like how you think, kid. You’d have done great if you’d landed in Baleros. But you’re forgetting the main thing: sex. Tons of fun. Can’t see a world without it.”
Rhaldon’s face was completely straight as he replied.
“Earth’s definitely working on sex robots too.”
Jelaqua blinked. 
Damn, Pelt was right. They really did have everything. 
 
——
 
When Kevin came back, he had a huge cube of metal that he dropped on the dining table and nearly smashed it in with. His bag of holding produced a contraption even more convoluted than Rhaldon’s object; Jelaqua just sighed as she poked it.
“What is this now? Someone help the poor, stupid Selphid?”
“This is an engine, Jelaqua! Something you use to power a car.”
“…You’re saying that like that’s not complete gibberish.”
She turned to Rinli, but the [Gearhead] was as out of her depth as Jelaqua was here. Kevin gestured at the engine.
“Okay, right. Let’s try to explain. An engine works on combustion, using a fuel that it compresses before it explodes. Like a fire eats wood, but it goes off like a Potion of Blast that Saliss makes. The force of that is enough to do almost anything—if you harness it. So the way an engine works is the pistons here made here compress the fuel, and then you transfer that energy—”
Surprisingly, it was Rhaldon who interrupted with a simpler explanation.
“Imagine something that makes a bicycle go without needing to pedal. That’s an engine. It’s like a Golem Heart.”
“Ah, got it.”
Jelaqua had actually been following Kevin’s explanation fairly well, but she appreciated the way Rhaldon boiled it down. Kevin was more upset.
“Dude, my thunder. How’d you learn to do that?”
“Termin. He doesn’t like wordy explanations. Kevin, this is fascinating. I think it’s too complex for a prototype, but—oh, you made it modular.”
The engine could come apart piece-by-piece and Kevin nodded proudly as Rhadlon disassembled key parts.
“Yep, I kept it secret, and it wasn’t a priority…until the death thing. Now it’s big, but I heard you were working on your own. I can’t get mine to actually do anything with the wheels.”
Indeed, Kevin’s engine was a complicated mess of levers and attempts to transmit the vague design of an engine he knew, with pistons and an internal engine block, into the actual wheels. The problem was that a bicycle mechanic wasn’t exactly big on cars, and Kevin hadn’t owned one in Los Angeles.
“No one can help me, Rhaldon. Erin didn’t drive, Ryoka was never here long enough, and she freaks out about this kind of stuff. And Rose doesn’t know anything about cars. Frankly, I don’t ever want to have her drive me around. Joseph, Imani, Troydel—none of ‘em drive or know how cars work. Non-Americans, the lot.”
Rhaldon smiled.
“Well, I wasn’t exactly a genius myself, but we had a car my dad made me work on. Are you mounting it in the center…?”
“Yep, just makes sense if you’re going to power all four wheels. I know there’s a reason you put it up front…but this is a prototype. I thought I’d just make it gears all the way. If the engine would run, you just move it like a bicycle, right?”
Rhaldon identified Kevin’s problem pretty quickly: the young man hadn’t actually remembered the concept of the transmission properly. Namely…a drive shaft. Without the spinning axel, he had tried to link everything up with bicycle chains, which is what he knew and had the most of.
In theory, it might have actually worked, but with a few modifications, Kevin’s design stopped looking like a crazy puzzle box of parts. Kevin slapped his forehead.
“Spinning pipe. Dude, this is why I had to have someone who knew mechanics here.”
“No one else figured that out, truly?”
“I’m telling you, none of ‘em like cars. Maybe Ryoka would. She strikes me as someone who probably would get on a motorcycle or crash her parents’ car…but not fix them. Dude, look at this.”
“Yeah, look at it. What are we looking at, Rinli?”
Jelaqua whispered to Rinli, and the [Assistant] whispered back.
“I think…something that’s meant to keep up with Wistram’s magical carriages.”
The Selphid pulled a face. But the magical carriages were already beating everything else. Who needed a non-magical thing like this? 
Someone in a…non-magic area? Her eyes narrowed as Kevin and Rhaldon discussed the matter. The [Alchemist] was highly animated.
“This is exactly what I’ve needed. If Master Pelt can create prototypes this advanced, or maybe his apprentices, and Solar Cycles can also do some machining, then I could actually try the designs. And if you could help me improve my blueprints—”
It was Kevin who held up a hand.
“Whoa, operational security, Rhaldon! We don’t trust anyone but Pelt or Emessa, his best apprentice. Second, we keep this private.”
“Even among the inn? But you said—”
Kevin rolled his shoulders.
“The walls have ears, dude. And yeah, I trust everyone, but things have a way of connecting around here. Let’s say we get Lyonette on this thing. Three weeks later we’ll have like an engine-bomb we need to huck into a Kraken’s mouth while Ishkr plays the saxophone to save Wistram. We trust everyone; we talk to only the people we need.”
Rhaldon pointed at Jelaqua. Kevin clarified.
“And Jelaqua. She’s cool, plus, she saw us, and I don’t think we can get rid of her.”
The Selphid wore a happy smile. Someone got her!
Rhaldon exhaled.
“Well, this beats my attempts to make a wooden version of the engine. I nearly sliced my fingers apart. Can we start with Pelt?”
“Absolutely. I bet Pallass has changed the security on the checkpoint so I can go on through as soon as I stow my you-know-whats. Want to check out Solar Cycles? Then we can go to Pallass. Jelaqua?”
She slapped her knees and stood.
“Alright, kids. You’ve got me until you lot start speaking complex again. What’s new in Solar Cycles, Kevin, aside from you-know-whats and engine-thingies?”
“What? Tons of stuff, Jelaqua. We made a unicycle the other day just because. And kid’s tricycles! Rhaldon, you want a bike?”
Kevin led the way as Rinli followed, making notes and, Jelaqua suspected, putting together lists of what they’d need. She might not know all of what was going on, but it was nice to see Kevin lightening up. Plus, she’d decided training him so he didn’t get hurt wasn’t a bad use of time.
Cars. It was so simple! Between Kevin’s mechanical ability and Rhaldon’s knowledge of chemistry, it would be simple. They had science, magic, alchemy, and metallurgy on their side!
 
——
 
“Nope. Not doing it.”
Pelt was watching a duel between two [Martial Artists] on the scrying orb as he ate crab dipped in garlic butter. He glanced up long enough to deliver his final word and went back to watching.
“What? Pelt! C’mon! This is huge! It’ll change everything!”
The Dwarf just eyed the engine once, then beckoned.
“Boy, come here.”
Kevin walked over, and Pelt grabbed his shirt with a buttery-hand and pulled him forwards.
“How many little metal tubes and gears is in that damn thing, Kevin?”
“Uh, a lot? But Pelt—”
The other [Smiths], Grimalkin, and Pryde all watched as Jelaqua saw Maughin poring over plans for his forge. He smiled at her as she hugged him, then listened to the Dwarf. Pelt’s voice was grinding like stones.
“How many times do I have to reforge something because the measurements are a teensy bit off? The bicycles were bad enough, and they were nothing compared to this monstrosity. And let’s assume you’re correct. This will change the world, yes?”
“Yeah, it’ll—”
“I will not spend the rest of my life forging worthless steel bits like that!”
Pelt howled. He thrust Kevin away like he was warding off curses.
“Nor will any smith in my forge! Go ask Pallassian [Smiths] or even Dwarfhome—and they’ll be welcome to it! What you’re asking for is the kind of work that drives any honest [Smith] mad! No, not for all the gold in Pallass! Besides, I’m helping Maughin with his forge. Emessa, no work from Solar Cycles except for the bicycle parts!”
“Yes, Smith Pelt!”
Crestfallen, Rhaldon and Kevin regarded each other.
“But Pelt—dude!”
The Dwarf bounced an empty crab shell off Kevin’s face. Rhaldon was whispering to Kevin.
“It’s too hard to make anyways, Kevin. Think about it, this is after the industrial revolution. We need machining and mass-production.”
Grimalkin was hunting around for a notepad, but Lady Pryde just handed him one. There was no way of seeing Pryde’s face, but the aura around her blossomed with such affection as Grimalkin smiled at her that Jelaqua mimed gagging to Felkhr. The Gnoll just stared at her as if she was one to talk.
Crestfallen, Kevin clenched a fist.
“We’ll find another way! Maughin, what about—”
“I’m busy! Jelaqua, we’re working on the forge. We just need to lobby a [Senator], and Lady Blackwing has helped us tremendously in that regard.”
Maughin was smiling as he gestured to the plans, and Jelaqua hugged him one-armed. But she was confused and said so.
“I told you I’d help! And you were too shy to ask Pelt. I told you it wasn’t your fault! One question…Lady who? I don’t know a Lady Blackwing.”
He frowned at her.
“But she was the one who sent all the details to my forge. She said you’d asked on my behalf?”
She gave him a blank stare. It was Magus Grimalkin who snapped his fingers.
“Lady…Melika Blackwing? Garuda. Very fashionable.”
“Oh, her! Duh, forgot the last name. Yeah, she was great. And she only asked for my help with some kids!”
Jelaqua laughed as she slapped her forehead. Maughin chuckled in relief.
“You’ll forget to thank her, next. Her children? Or something else?”
The Selphid waved a hand as something tickled the back of her mind.
“Nah, it’s something she organizes? She helps a bunch of kids who’re poor or…and she was asking me to go to the event tomorrow…which is today…at midday…”
She stared out the window as Pelt stopped cheering on his favorite fighter. Everyone turned and peered at the window. The sun was merrily dipping its way through the sky. Probably…two o’ clock? Three, perhaps. Two if you wanted to be charitable.
Maughin turned to Jelaqua as the Selphid stood there. Kevin and Rhaldon exchanged a glance, and Rinli was suddenly all smiles.
“Well, we’d better be going. Kevin? Let’s bring Rhaldon to Solar Cycles and not interrupt everything. Excuse us Master Pelt.”
They dashed out the door, and Jelaqua stood there. She couldn’t exactly go paler, but after a second, she did go through the front door as it tried to swing closed so fast it blew off the hinges. Then she was just running and running—
She stopped once to grab Kevin and put him in a headlock.
“You’re coming with me.”

Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 7) (2025-09-21)

Jelaqua had missed Melika’s charity fundraiser.
For children. Not just any children. The banner the two Garuda were taking down said:
Charity Fundraiser — Pallass’ Most Needy Require Your Support!
And it had a cute little Drake being held in two furry arms—the Drake girl had a scar on her face in the illustration.
At this point, Jelaqua thought about turning and just running away. Maybe it would be easier to say she’d gotten the wrong day entirely; it looked like they were packing up.
A Gold-rank Adventurer cannot run. A Gold-rank Adventurer cannot run…
She squared her shoulders as she marched towards the empty auditorium that Melika had rented. A bunch of workers were inside, taking down decorations and tables. One of the staff looked up and, when she heard Jelaqua’s name, glowered.
“Lady Melika has already retired, Adventurer Ivirith! She was quite disappointed when you didn’t show up. I believe she might be walking the children back to their homes.”
“Oh, so it was for children with families?”
“Some are cared for, but require medical assistance or other help. Others are at the orphanages. Plural.”
Jelaqua was trying to turn invisible. All her good mood from earlier—she’d been eating pizza when Melika had been putting on a concert from the sounds of it!
“S-so I missed music and festivities?”
“Plenty of Pallass’ wealthiest were donors as well as common citizens, yes. There was even music. Charitable giving.”
The Drake looked pointedly at the donation box that Jelaqua shovelled gold coins into. The Selphid drooped.
“I don’t suppose I could apologize to Melika in person, could I?”
“Perhaps. You might also cheer the children up. They were excited to meet a Gold-rank adventurer.”
The Selphid was looking for another Hag Queen to fight. She muttered to the floor.
“Gee, I really made their day. Right after I kicked a cat off the 9th Floor too.”
Everyone in earshot turned to stare at her. The Selphid raised her hands hurriedly.
“That was a joke. Dark humor. I’m going, I am so sorry—which way is she?”
She received curt directions to the places that Melika was most likely to be and took off. Pallass had orphanages, apparently, and on her very fast run the way there, Jelaqua was rehearsing an apology.
She’d brought backup, of course. The Selphid hadn’t managed to drag Kevin with her, but he and Rinli had gifted her with a new prototype kid-sized bicycle with training wheels and two regular ones just to get out of having to come with her. And she’d run back to the inn and snatched up a bunch of pizzas in the vain hope that’d count for something.
All of that to say that when Jelaqua arrived at the first orphanage and stared at the rather colorful walls and the children and young adults gathered around the familiar, beautiful Garuda, she did stop for a good minute to see if the Wyverns were attacking again. She’d really have liked that.
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing seemed upset. Like a woman personally let down by her heroine, perhaps. Her colorful plumage was drooping along with her head, and she was nodding down at the crowd of children also bereft of heroism, hope, and trust in Gold-rank adventurers in general and Selphids specifically.
…Or, no, maybe Jelaqua was reading into it. Certainly, as she drew near the orphanage, her apprehensions were missed on several levels. Firstly, the orphanage appeared…nice.
Even now, Jelaqua had an image of Baleros in her soul, and back home, well, Selphid children didn’t really get abandoned except in times of extreme duress—they’d just die given how unique their biology was. And Centaurs tended to value their children such that any colt or filly left abandoned would find a home in no time.
Lizardfolk and Dullahans, though, did have more prolific individuals—Lizardfolk especially. Leaving children on doorsteps or in public spaces, or just in baskets you put into a river—that stayed with Jelaqua. She was picturing a run-down building with overworked [Caretakers] trying to manage a horde of children in ragged clothing.
…This orphanage had colors. It was like a bunch of fractal, geometric shapes, a huge red triangle, a blue square, all stuck over a plain white stucco building with two floors and a generous courtyard. Jelaqua saw several of the windows were open, airing laundry from lines, and the entire place seemed well-kept; in fact, a dozen members of staff—Drakes wearing neck-spine bonnets and a uniform—were all gathered outside.
Pallass had the money to at least make its public services decent, and the fact that the children gathered around Melika seemed to be energetic and wearing serviceable, if perhaps second-hand clothing, was a very good sign. No malnutrition. No signs of bruises or broken bones—at least ones left untreated; she saw one Gnoll boy had an arm in a sling—no more injuries than you’d get in a crowd of rambunctious kids at any rate. High marks from Jelaqua.
No, it was the older kids, who went from their late teens into fully young adult twenties, that seemed far worse-for-wear. There were, Jelaqua realized, two groups around the upset Garuda. Children from the orphanage and an older contingent.
The older ones were giving Melika grief as Jelaqua drew forwards cautiously.
“—gold in our claws or what?”
“It doesn’t work like that, Anamariss. You know that. It was a wonderful turnout—”
A Drake girl of around eighteen or so was poking Melika in the chest; the Garuda wore a bright toga, and the Drake girl…at first, Jelaqua thought she was wearing an all-black tunic before she blinked.
No, the tunic was a different color; the ash coming off her scales was turning it practically black. Jelaqua felt a shivering in her body as she recognized the girl at once.
Sootling. Or Scorchling, the more common term for Oldbloods, but Jelaqua had heard the names used interchangeably. Both fit here. A Drake name for someone with the Oldblood abilities who couldn’t control their body’s natural functions. It took multiple forms, so ‘Sootling’ was a misnomer, but the most common version was just like what Jelaqua was seeing.
The girl, Anamariss, was afflicted by heat, probably a flame-based Oldblood breath that was so hot it was turning her scales to ash. Due to some bad luck, her skin and organs could handle her internal heat—or she’d have died before being born—but her scales hadn’t been given the same treatment. As Jelaqua drew closer, she saw telltale splotches of what seemed like gel on the girl’s body, especially around her armpits and joints.
Burns. So she wasn’t even able to withstand her own heat. She winced as she went to poke Melika again, but some of the other children were blocking her. She shoved at a pinkish Garuda girl a few years younger than her. An eighteen-year old Garuda—who had virtually no feathers on her body. She appeared almost alien without them.
Another condition of birth. Anamariss snapped.
“My name’s Anama. I don’t care how big the turnout is! You’re still not fixing the real problems! Everyone in our street can’t get water because the well’s got mold in it!”
“Still? I’ll talk to [Landlord] Inmal first thing tomorrow.”
“He’s not going to do anything. I don’t want a delivery of food and crap, just give me the gold and I’ll find my own place!”
Melika was trying to smile as a few murmurs of agreement rose from the other young adults. The children looked very upset as they stared at her, and Melika patted one Gnoll girl on the head.
“Anama, can’t we discuss this inside? I can’t give you the gold; that’s against our rules. And you know the Health and Safety Act—”
“Crelers take that stupid junk and you! You’re not helping us at all, you’re just paying for us to die in those stinking holes where no one has to look at us!”
The Drake girl shouted. At this, Melika’s visible skin around her beak paled, and her head drooped further. The Garuda girl without feathers shoved Anamariss back.
“If you don’t want help, get lost, Anama! Go get your gang to fix everything! Melika raised tons of gold for us!”
That drew the Scorchling girl’s wrath to the Garuda defending Melika. She shoved the other, hard.
“Go suck her husband off, Ophala. He’s never going to take you into his fancy mansion either way. Melika doesn’t have to worry about bad wells, does she? Or d’you think we’re doing good?”
Well, this was unpleasant. The two young women began to go at it as Melika shouted and tried to get them apart; Ophala was pecking and scratching at Anama, who actually got the worst of it as she swung and swore; her skin was very vulnerable without scales, and she was missing two fingers on her right hand. Jelaqua moved a few children back in the crowd as they stared at the fighting and her. Then Anama drew in a breath.
“No! No fire!”
Melika shrieked. She tried to close Anama’s mouth as the flames began to rise in the Drake’s gorge. Ophala flinched, and Jelaqua grabbed the Scorchling girl’s shoulder and tossed her.
It was a gentle toss, more like a lob without snapping the girl’s limbs around from the force. You had to practice it. The girl went flying back and actually landed on her feet before flames roared out of her mouth—her nostrils—the burst of flames blooming up around her, and Jelaqua winced.
That was no controlled Dragonbreath. It seemed more like Anama had released flames out of every orifice she had—even her earholes. The flames burst up around her, and she shouted in pain, then she was clawing at her burning clothing.
“Anama!”
Melika ran over, and two of the caretakers dashed forwards too.
“You’re burning up. Tonic of Chill—do we have any Flame Balm?”
“Right here.”
Now the girl was overheating. She gulped the tonic that Melika passed to her and yanked out a salve herself from her belt pouches, which had survived her self-immolation. Melika pulled out a towel too for modesty’s sake—when the girl had stopped smoking, the tonic reducing her internal temperature, she just coughed for a good half a minute. Then gasped.
“Who the hell—?”
That was when everyone turned, and Jelaqua Ivirith lifted a hand with a guilty smile. She nodded to Melika.
“Hey, I’m so sorry I was late. You know us Gold-rankers. Heh. Ha ha…always showing up at the last moment.”
She paused, flushing deeper orange, and bowed her head to Melika.
“Please let me make it up. I’ve got some food and something to share—”
Then she glanced at Anama, and her nerves and embarrassment turned to coolness. Jelaqua gave the girl a bright smile.
“—And if you flame off again, kid, I’ll hit you instead of tossing you. You nearly burnt all those kids and yourself up. Do it twice and no tonic will save your insides.”
She spoke with authority. It wasn’t hard to see how overheated the kid was, even with the tonic. She had no temperature regulation like Zevara or Keldrass; her body wouldn’t vent the heat fast enough. She’d cook her insides unless someone managed to chill her quickly enough. And without magic, the only way Jelaqua knew to do that was to slice her stomach or other vitals open and let the heat vent.
Anama was gasping as she fanned at her face.
“I know that. Who’re you?”
“This is Jelaqua Ivirith, the Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers I was telling you all about. Jelaqua, this is—these are the children and young people that our organization works with. Uplifting Wings, the charity, and this is Anama—”
“Hey there.”
Jelaqua stuck out a hand, then withdrew it as the Drake spat smoke and ash at it.
“Anama! Jelaqua, I’m very sorry; Anama is one of our young adults—we need to get our [Healer] to look at you. When’s the last time you let out Dragonbreath, Anama?”
“Fuck off. I don’t need help. I’m off.”
The Scorchling was staggering away from the crowd. Melika hurried after her.
“You’re hurt! I insist—”
“Let go—”
A swipe from Anama’s right hand. Melika flinched, and Jelaqua caught the arm. Very gently, and she put the Drake girl in a choke hold under one arm. Squeezed.
“Captain Ivirith, don’t—”
“I’ve got her, don’t worry. C’mon, kid, you’re hurt. Just say ‘no’ if you don’t want help. No?”
The flailing from under her made Jelaqua grin. She had a gentle arm over Anama’s windpipe, and it didn’t allow the girl to breathe flames, even if she wanted to. Jelaqua casually strongarmed the girl back towards the orphanage and nodded at Melika. The Garuda woman’s beak opened as the children and young people parted to make way for her. Jelaqua passed by Ophala, and the featherless Garuda girl’s beak was gaping in astonishment. She turned to some of the other people her age, mostly Drakes, though there were a few Gnolls and Dullahans mixed in.
“Whoa. Who is she?”
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing had an office in the orphanage. She was, in fact, its founder and chairwoman.
“I took over this particular site, and our charity knows all the orphanages in Pallass. Until the age of fifteen, all children in our facilities receive medical treatment, education in Pallass’ apprenticeships unless they need at-home tutoring, counselling, care, and everything else.”
“And after that? Why fifteen?”
Jelaqua Ivirith was gazing out a window at the children in the courtyard. They were taking turns riding the bicycles she’d gotten from Kevin, young and old. And eating the pizza.
Jelaqua and Melika were in the office talking. After Jelaqua had dumped the semi-asphyxiated Anama at the [Healer]’s, Melika had invited her up here. The Garuda was very flustered; Jelaqua less so. It would have been reversed except for the incident just now. Instead, Jelaqua suddenly saw Melika in a new light.
The Garuda woman was sorting through her files.
“I’m sorry, I need to look up the residence of Landlord Inmal. He should have cleared that well. Fifteen? It’s when children legally become young adults under Pallassian law. They’re taxed at that age. In practice, they’ll be with their family, but…”
“If they have no parents, you can’t keep them in the orphanage. Did I hear you give them support? That’s good.”
Melika nodded.
“We try to find them jobs, and we have apartments we can subsidize the rent on. We deliver food, medicine, and other supplies each week. But as you can tell, it’s never enough.”
“Hence the fundraisers. I’m real sorry about missing it. There’s no good excuse. I hope I didn’t ruin things by missing it?”
Jelaqua shoved her hands into her pockets, and Melika shook her head.
“I didn’t base it all around you, Captain Ivirith, I just wanted you to be there for the children. Thank you for the—pizza?—and the bicycles. They’re having so much fun down there.”
“You can keep ‘em, I think I can arrange that.”
“No, we couldn’t do that. They’d fight. Maybe the one for children, but all the young folk will argue over who gets the two bicycles. And they’re not necessarily safe to keep, especially if those are Solar Cycles originals. Dead gods, how did you get them?”
“I knew the previous owner and I’m friends with the store people.”
And that meant wherever they were, they might have the bicycles stolen. Jelaqua nodded to herself. This was all very familiar. She leaned over the desk as Melika found the paper she needed.
“Free water’s probably something you have to have in Pallass. The reason you don’t just call the Watch on this [Landlord]?”
“That would—complicate matters. He’s one of the few people who can or will rent to us. There’s a provision in Pallassian law that makes finding new places hard…”
“…and if you piss him off he’ll just evict the kids. Plus, from the sounds of it, more’n one is running with a gang. Are they flash, blade, or just low-score?”
“What? What do those words mean, Captain?”
The Garuda [Socialite] blinked at Jelaqua. She fumbled with the paper, jotting down a note. Then rang a bell at her desk.
“Journe? Can you make an appointment with Landlord Inmal? Thank you.”
She had a Garuda [Assistant] who took the note. Journe was dressed like a [Butler]. Jelaqua eyed his long uniform which covered his wing-arms, a very odd rarity for Garuda. Then she jerked a thumb at the Drake girl striding into the courtyard and grabbing one of the bicycles.
“Sorry, street terms. You pick them up. Flash means the gang’s all about showing off. Big heists, jewels, and lots of bragging. Some actual substance, but they’d probably steal skateboards or do things like paint a wall or attack a [Guard]. Thieving too, mostly. Blade’s the opposite. They’re the ones mugging and actually stabbing people. Low-score means they’re not really much of anything, just a bunch of low-levels not worth categorizing.”
The Garuda woman fidgeted, clearly uncomfortable.
“I—I don’t know. I don’t think Anama’s running with that dangerous a crowd. Though Ophala thinks she’s in a nest of crime. They don’t get along, and they’re both leaders in their own way. Ophala was here since she was two, and Anama came from another city at…I want to say eight? Both have been here since I took over.”
The Selphid nodded, glancing around the neat little office. Melika shifted, peering at her with more discomfort than yesterday.
“Excuse me, Captain Ivirith, let me thank you properly for the help. I’m sure if you’d care to go down and show the kids something—safely; one of your Skills, maybe?—it would make their day. I’d hate to tax you more than that. This is all I wanted.”
“Oh, I don’t mind. It’s the least I can do. You’re a far better woman than I thought, Melika.”
The Selphid smiled, and Melika blushed.
“What makes you say that? I’m hardly—”
“You’re hiring them, aren’t you? At least some. Journe must not have his wingfeathers, so he can’t fly.”
“How do you—?”
“Garuda would never cover up their wings like that unless that was the case. Poor kid, Ophala. It must make getting jobs real hard. How much time do you spend on this?”
“Well, if I’m not preparing for an event—a few days out of the week. It runs without me, I’m just finances and some managerial stuff. But it’s just not enough once they leave…please forgive Anama.”
Jelaqua shrugged, eying the girl as she tried to wheel the bicycle out of the courtyard. One of the staff deftly stopped her.
“She’s a little shit, but sure.”
“Captain Ivirith! She’s just troubled—”
“Nah. She knew what she was doing with that flame breath stunt. She’d have baked you and everyone around her. And she would have killed herself if she did it twice. She’s used her flames in the last few days; she’s too hot.”
Melika hesitated, half-risen from her desk. She peered at the girl, then turned to Jelaqua.
“I thought she was running too hot, but how can you…? Oh.”
Jelaqua nodded.
“I’ve partied with…seven Scorchlings over the duration of the Halfseekers. You probably remember Halassia Evergleam the best; she was our [Mage] along with Moore. Noticing the signs gets to be second nature. How many of the kids here are Scorchling or have another problem like Ophala?”
Now, Melika was hesitating. She clicked her beak a few times.
“…More than half. More than two-thirds, I’d guess. That is, usually, the commonality between children left with us. We do look for good families, but mostly, those that are adopted are, um—”
“Not Scorchlings. Drakes think it’s bad luck. Not many Garuda would take in that kid without feathers, either. Gnolls…white fur? But mostly the same. That kid’s blind.”
It was the same story from Baleros despite this being a far better place for them. Jelaqua sighed and leaned on the windowsill as Melika nodded.
“It’s far from ideal. And as you say, some children are in need of dire medical attention. A lot of the gold goes to buying supplies and treatments for them. I actually have hopes Wistram will have more medicines and enchantments in that area. They’re teasing alchemical formulas on par with their magic.”
“Hey now, that would be good. I reckon I can donate more gold too.”
“That’s so generous of you, Captain. But you don’t need to—”
Jelaqua didn’t have more gold in her bag of holding, so she just wrote a note she could stamp with a personal seal; Gold-rankers carried such things for big purchases. She hesitated, bit her lip, then added another zero.
“Here. This is the kind of place Halassia would have loved to see. She never grew up in Pallass; she could have used this.”
“Oh my, Jelaqua—! Thank you.”
The Selphid smiled and waved it away, and Melika rose to hug her.
“Nah, don’t worry about it. C’mon, you can introduce me to the children.”
And she meant what she’d said. She could never have started something like this. Seeing the [Socialite] going down to the courtyard and playing with the children with clear familiarity put her in a different light. It embarrassed Jelaqua, really. She’d thought of Melika as being just a well-intentioned noblewoman, but she had a good heart and the actions to back it.
Well, the Selphid did her best. It was easy to produce her Demas Metal flail and give it a few swings while everyone watched from a very safe distance, or to regale the kids with a few tales about fighting monsters.
The children were agog by her; that was simple, and Jelaqua let one of the Gnoll boys feel her face and giggle, but her attention was on the older crowd.
“Miss Ivirith, I’m very sorry you had to see that disgraceful display with Anama. I’m Ophala, a [Tailor] in training, and very pleased to meet you!”
The featherless Garuda girl came over to shake Jelaqua’s hand, and the Selphid peered at her. Ophala was fairly nimble on the ground; without feathers, she’d be lighter than even other Garuda, who were pound-for-pound the 3rd-lightest species in the world, behind Fraerlings and Selphids, and that really wasn’t a fair metric.
She wore clothing with fake feathers embroidered or stuck onto the clothing to hide the featherlessness, but her head still looked disconcertingly small and, if you wanted to be blunt, somewhat like a chicken’s plucked head. She blushed, but Jelaqua just grinned at her.
“Not a fan of that other kid? You’re quick on your feet.”
“I used to, um, work as a Street Runner! And this is Merry and Consillir—”
Oh, it was familiar. Jelaqua couldn’t remember how many times she’d seen a half-Gnoll in Izril. And she’d been here for decades—normally, you got half-Gnoll, half-Humans who ranged from furry-ish people to Gnolls with slightly different facial features. Half-Drake, half-Gnoll?
Fertility spell that didn’t work as intended. He had patchy scales on his arms, and the Gnoll kid had buds like neck spines on his neck and a more Drake-like bone structure and face. It was offputting just from the sense that you were used to Drake norms.
Consillir was a Dullahan kid who wore no armor, and his visible skin was roughened from exposure to the elements. Probably he couldn’t separate his limbs or neck; another ‘failing’ in the eyes of Dullahans and which made wearing armor non-stop as hard for him as it would be for [Knights]; he’d be in danger of getting gangrene or other bacterial infections from being inside the armor all the time.
Jelaqua grinned as she shook hands with the shy lot, chatting.
“Most’ve your friends are Drakes, right? Scorchlings?”
They all hesitated at the name, but Ophala nodded.
“That’s most of us, yes, Captain. See Ninssa there? She’s water-element. Which means—”
“Ah, damn. Dehydrates herself?”
She appeared rather desiccated, and Ophala blinked. The girl was blowing little bubbles of water for some of the children and getting scolded.
“That’s right! How d’you know that?”
“Halassia Evergleam was a former teammate of mine. She was a Scorchling too, and I used to run with a Drake called Bilth—he was also water-element. Between him and Seborn, we used to take so much drinking water we’d just load up a barrel for our provisions when we went on an adventure. Do you all get along or fight?”
“Mostly, we’re good, yes? Just not Anama and her gang.”
Merry growled. He flicked out a forked tongue, and Jelaqua nodded.
“That’s good. I’d hate to see what four Scorchlings could do if they started breathing.”
“Oh! You know about combined Dragonbreath? We blew up an apartment one time. That’s why we’re stuck with Coincutter Inmal.”
Consillir spoke up, and Ophala tried to shush him. She gave Jelaqua a too-wide smile.
“That was an accident. It never happens regularly…um, so do Gold-rankers meet a lot of famous people like the Players of Celum, Captain Ivirith?”
Jelaqua laughed softly and went for the bait. She showed them a few autographed cards from all the Players as they gasped over them and remembered how silly Wesle and Jasi had been back in the day. Then Jelaqua asked a few more questions.
“So, Miss Melika’s a good manager?”
Ophala’s face lit up as she gazed towards the Garuda giving one of the children a low-level flight across the ground.
“She’s the best! I want to work for her, but—I’ve got a good job. But she comes here all the time, and we can come by.”
Merry muttered.
“So long as we’re not Anama. Everyone likes Melika. She just can’t fix everything.”
Then he glanced at the other young people. They nudged each other until Ophala burst out.
“You’d better watch out, Captain Ivirith! Anama’s evil. She’s got a gang she runs with. The Flameblades. They might get revenge for you tossing her around.”
Jelaqua was shocked.
“Little old me? I barely touched her.”
“Well, she’s sleeping with their boss—”
Ophala kicked Merry, who seemed to be something of a loudmouth. Jelaqua snorted.
“Yeah, that’d do it. I’ve never heard of the ‘Flameblades’, but I’m new to Pallass. What’re they, flash, low-score? Or actual blades?”
Again, she saw that blank expression on most faces, but Ophala answered easily.
“No, they’re actual blades, but more low-score’n—uh, well, they’re not that big. They mostly just hold people up for coins in their bags of holding, but they might be a problem!”
She fidgeted, and Jelaqua smiled faintly. She winked at Ophala.
“Thanks for the warning, Miss Ophala. Hey, do any of you want to see what Demas Metal does? Give me a bit of water and I’ll show you a trick, though no one’s touching the flail—it’ll cut your fingers off. I keep losing ‘em when I forget, and unlike me, none of you are sewing them back on…okay, except for you, Stitch-kid. You can hold it. What’s your name?”
 
——
 
Jelaqua spent two more hours with the kids before it was getting dark, and Melika announced it was time to wash up for supper. She thanked Jelaqua again.
“This was wonderful, Captain Ivirith. Please don’t feel poorly about missing the event—spending this much time with the children is more than they wanted, and the young people were delighted to meet you.”
Jelaqua stowed the bikes in her bag of holding as she smiled, genuinely pleased.
“I’m glad. Would it be bad if I came by now and then? This really is…something important. I know I didn’t do anything other than impress you as a kid, but I feel proud of you. Sorry.”
She saw the Garuda blush.
“That means…a lot coming from one of my heroines, Captain Ivirith. It’s what I can do. And yes, any time! They’d love to see you.”
Jelaqua glanced at the young folk filing out of the courtyard and waving. Most seemed headed in the same direction. She guessed they probably had a few communities they’d go to. She saw a Drake stepping back into the street as her head turned and nodded.
“No problem.”
“Would you have time to have dinner? Werdin knows I’m out—I’d love to host you at my estate unless your husband is waiting for you? My [Chef] could prepare something.”
“Nah, nah…better to do this kind of thing on the streets. I could do a bar.”
Jelaqua murmured, and Melika blinked.
“What thing?”
“Hm? Oh, I’d love to! But why don’t we find a place nearby and catch a drink or two?”
“I…would love to. I don’t know any establishments around here, though.”
The orphanage was on the 4th Floor, which wasn’t exactly as prosperous as a place Melika would frequent. But Jelaqua just glanced around and pointed.
“There’s always a bar, Melika. C’mon, I’ll buy.”
 
——
 
Booze and adventuring ran together like adventuring and blood. Or adventuring and holes in your socks. Or adventuring and lice. Or…
“Jelaqua, that’s horrible! There has to be some fun in adventuring! Or why would anyone bother?”
Jelaqua had found a bar in record time. She had a nose for noise and a bit of fun. They were sitting together at a bar, sipping some bad drinks. Really bad, no flavor or anything Rufelt could do to them. Just two liquids mixed together with, if you were lucky, a third or a bit of fruit stuck on the glass.
It was amazing how bad someone without Skills could be, and if this Drake slinging drinks had the [Bartender] class, Jelaqua would eat the shitty plywood bar they were sitting at.
This was a hole in the ground, literally—a cellar renovated to be an eating and drinking place. Jelaqua had only found it because Melika had noticed a bunch of people with her class. The bouncer at the doors had given them a lot of trouble until Jelaqua pulled her retired Gold-rank card.
She’d been worried the burly Drake woman wanted a fight, but she’d left the two alone after that. All the clientele were drinking or partying together. Good atmosphere, shitty drinks.
Dead gods, even the Yellats slathered with ketchup were burnt. Melika didn’t seem to mind. Her eyes were shining, and she didn’t appear to be acting up her enjoyment of hearing Jelaqua’s stories. She was with her idol, and the [Socialite] made you feel like you were a [Hero] when she hung on your words.
Her one annoying trait was that she giggled a lot when drunk. Which Jelaqua assumed some people might like, but it kept getting in the way of her stories.
“Well, I can eat ‘em. Lice, that is. Don’t gag, I know some Garuda—okay, okay, bad for when we’re eating. Listen, sometimes it’s just fine and you’re dry and mostly clean even when fighting. But the real adventuring, the stuff that makes you a true adventurer, not some ponce who’ll only slay monsters, is going out there and sloshing through a bog and hunting a wounded monster for three days in the pouring rain. Then, afterwards, making sure to find the nest, clear it, and fight off three dozen zombies in the muck and haul their bodies back for burial.”
Even some of the other patrons were listening to her. Melika sipped at her drink, shaking her head.
“How is that worth it?”
“The adrenaline, of course! Even Selphids feel that. The feeling of life-or-death, then the euphoria when you win? Drugs don’t feel that way. When you’ve beaten down an Armored Crawler with your bare hands and you just fall flat on your back, close your eyes, and level up? That’s what kept me going. Well, that and having a team and doing good things, but that’s why I fought the monsters.”
The Selphid smiled as she clenched a fist. She sipped from her drink; she was on her second, Melika her fifth. The [Socialite] had a far better head for alcohol than Jelaqua; the Selphid suspected a Skill. Jelaqua could drink like a normal person despite being a Selphid because she could choose to metabolize the alcohol or not. But only her high levels as a [Warrior] gave her any constitution—a single beer could down some Selphids not used to alcohol purely because of their low body mass.
“Hey, barkeep! Give me another of these horrible drinks. What’s the one that looks like someone shat in my glass?”
Melika choked as the Drake moved down the bar, away from a conversation with a young Human woman with a hood pulled over her head. He sighed.
“That’s an Engineer Oil. The olive’s supposed to be a nut.”
“What’s the base?”
“Uh…Firebreath Whiskey? And a cloud of brown in it. And an olive.”
“Whose, the [Engineer]’s?”
A few of the patrons spat their drinks out, laughing, and the Drake rolled his eyes.
“No, a nut, you know, nuts and bolts? The stuff they use in the Engineer’s Guild. I can make a different drink.”
“No, I like it. Give me another, with bones.”
“We’ve got no ice. You okay without?”
Jelaqua nodded and slapped some coins down, then leaned over to Melika.
“This is a terrible bar. Sorry for taking you to it. I’ve got business after this.”
“No, this is a delight, Jelaqua. I just hope we’re okay? I’m sure we are in your presence. But that fellow at the door was glaring daggers at you!”
Melika smiled hesitantly, but she had that attitude of someone who was rich and unused to such situations keenly aware of their net value. Which made everyone else eye them like prey…Jelaqua snorted.
“No one’s going to mug you here. Wrong vibe. Relax. Also, it was a woman at the door.”
“What? I could have sworn it was a he—”
“Selphid. You don’t fool these eyes. ‘Sides…I feel like I know some of the people here. Hmm.”
The bartender came back with another horrible Engineer’s Oil in claw, and Jelaqua squinted at him.
“Hey, barkeep, have we met?”
“Don’t think so.”
He wavered for a moment before blandly turning away. Jelaqua squinted at him.
“Wait a second…yeah, we have! At the inn! You were at the beach party with that other Drake…uh, Onieva. Mirn, right?”
She had a great memory for faces and names. The Drake hesitated as voices died down, then swung around.
“Oh, right. I think I remember you. Captain Ivirith. From the inn. One of the heroes from the Winter Solstice. Good sorts.”
He seemed to say it too loudly. Jelaqua glanced around as people went back to murmuring. Ah…well, that was funny.
“Oops, must have walked into your place by accident. We’re just here for drinks. This is Melika, a friend of mine.”
She slung an arm around Melika, who giggled again, and Mirn raised his brows. He met her eyes, then snorted.
“Here? This is the worst bar in Pallass for drinks and food. You have terrible luck!”
“That’s right! Mirn, can’t you get better food? What about the basement at…?”
Half the guests chorused, and he glared and threw a dishrag.
“Not every day’s fancy free, idiots! Shut up. You get one fancy night a month unless we figure out a better system! Keep it down!”
Jelaqua glanced at Melika, but the [Socialite] was busy; she had something in her claws. Everyone leapt out of the way as the Magic Picture scroll activated—she took a picture of herself and Jelaqua, then showed the Selphid the image.
“I couldn’t resist. May I keep this, Captain?”
“Nice angle.”
“It’s this new fad! Wistram is selling something that takes Magic Pictures. They call it a ‘camera’, and they said this is a ‘self image’, a ‘selfie’.”
Jelaqua snorted.
“What will they think of next? Seriously, is that something that’s going to catch on? Rose?”
She fished her olive out of her drink and pinged it across the bar. The young woman with the hood jerked, and the olive hit her in the head so hard it exploded.
“Ow! Jelaqua! What the hell?”
“Sorry. Get over here and say hi. Keeping out of trouble, yeah?”
Rose came over, wiping at olive gunk, and introduced herself to Melika. The Garuda blinked and sobered up slightly.
“Oh my. Oh, my dear…you have the most intense charm-Skills I’ve seen. Are you related to my class? I’m a [Socialite]—I hope you’re careful, or you might get in trouble if you turn up that charm at an event. It’s borderline criminal.”
Rose jumped as the Garuda shook her hand. She blushed, and Jelaqua eyed her. The Selphid had thought Rose was looking good recently…
“I, uh, it’s new.”
“Well, be careful—someone might notice that. How do you and Miss Ivirith know each other?”
“We’re friends from The Wandering Inn.”
“My! That famous place? I almost went once, since Salkis talks it up so, but it’s so dangerous.”
Melika shivered, and Jelaqua tilted her head.
“Salkis. Salkis…how do I know that name?”
“She’s that bitch that Numbtongue is seeing. Drake, black scales. How do you know her, Melika?”
Rose offered, and Melika narrowed her eyes.
“Salkis is my step-daughter.”
The young Human woman hesitated. She inched back as Jelaqua covered a laugh.
“Oh. Oh…right, well, it’s nice meeting you. I’ll just go over here now. She’s still a bitch.”
She retreated with Mirn, and Melika glowered until Jelaqua muttered to her.
“Don’t mind Rose—she’s decent. I’d take you to the inn on a quiet day. You’d get a kick out of the garden.”
“I’d love that. And I’m not that upset. I know Salkis is…difficult. I’m actually glad that Numbtongue fellow is dating her.”
It was Jelaqua’s turn to be astonished.
“You, uh, you’ve met him?”
“In disguise, but yes. I’m not blind, Jelaqua, and I, well, I remember the Halfseekers, and I’ve heard of the inn. Frankly, he’s better than some of the young men I’ve seen her with.”
That said more about Salkis than it did about Numbtongue, the Selphid suspected. Melika began talking over her woes with her stepdaughter, who didn’t really see her as a parent. Jelaqua was willing to listen, though her experience with children was nonexistent unless you counted Gold-rankers; in which case, she was an expert.
However, a commotion at the doors made everyone turn and go silent. Jelaqua peeked up as someone whispered.
“Heads up! Trouble—”
Everyone went quiet, and Mirn glanced towards a back door. Jelaqua was about to tell Melika to keep her head down—they weren’t in danger—when a figure came striding into the bar. She made a beeline for the counter, brushing her cloak back.
“I’m here for a drink. Nothing more. Every bar has to serve all guests, regardless of species. Isn’t that right…barkeep?”
There was an edge to the militant voice as the figure placed coins on the counter, and Mirn nodded, hand under the bar.
“Sure is. We just don’t let rabble inside. Have a seat. What can I get you?”
“Firebreath Whiskey. Frosted.”
“We’re out of ice. Here.”
The Drake grunted as they grabbed a plain, colorless drink and took one sip. From their grimace as they turned in their seat, it was bad stuff. Everyone was silent until Mirn coughed. He seemed to sniff the air for a second, then sighed.
“…Well, I think it’s good. What, you all want an invitation to talk?”
That coded signal let the voices resume, if carefully. Some of the dancers halted and went back to their seats, but Mirn’s word reassured the rest…though many kept glancing at the door.
“That [Doorwoman] isn’t earning her pay tonight. Sorry for being part of the trouble.”
Jelaqua commented to Mirn. He scowled.
“He’s not a [Doordrake]. Who the hell has that class? Aside from that one kid in Liscor.”
“You’d be surprised. Sorry, it feels like we’re Solsticing up this place. I blame Rose.”
“Hey! What did I do?”
The young woman protested, and Jelaqua shrugged as she took a sip from her cup. Then she scooted her chair over to the newcomer.
“I dunno, it’s just a really small city. Isn’t it, Shirka?”
General Shirka jumped as she pivoted.
“Jelaqua Ivirith? How the hell—?”
Melika gasped.
“General? Is that you? Oh my word! I’m hardly presentable—good evening!”
Shirka’s identity made Mirn stiffen up, and even more people turned to look at them, but Jelaqua was all smiles.
“What brings you here, Shirka? You’re scaring folks. Wander in by accident?”
“No. And I’m not looking for trouble. I’m just…observing. Are you a—a regular of this kind of establishment?”
The [General] almost sounded hopeful, but the Selphid just winked at a confused Melika and the others.
“Nah. But Selphids are welcome pretty much anywhere but respectable society so long as we’ve got enough gold. Don’t let me keep you, though you’re going to clear out every bar you come to if you barge in like that.”
She nodded to Shirka and the people who were indeed leaving. Shirka grunted.
“How am I supposed to come in?”
“By invitation. Jelaqua, are you vouching for 2nd Army’s [General]?”
Mirn threw down a dishrag. Jelaqua shrugged.
“If I did, would you take it? General Shirka and I only know each other in passing. Just don’t ruin your night over it. If she were coming to settle a score, I bet she’d be here with eight squads of [Soldiers].”
The Drake nodded.
“True. I don’t do personal reconnaissance. Good way to get headshot. Gears of Pallass, I’m just listening. Peaceably.”
She held up a clawed hand, and Mirn spat on the floor.
“Well, if this is a free-for-all, why don’t we invite the entire city in next? Fine. Rose, hand me that mop, would you?”
What a strange night. Jelaqua returned to her drinks as Melika whispered to her, trying to understand why Shirka was here. If Jelaqua understood the nature of this bar, Shirka’s curiosity was fascinating, both to her and to Mirn and Rose.
Not her business. Just like Kevin and Rhaldon—damn, she had to get back to that! But she wasn’t backing Kevin to the end. She was just…nosy. Bored.
She could be allowed to have fun with Melika, give Shirka a bit of a claw, and play with kids, right? Jelaqua had nothing better to do. Not even help Lord Moore. She was retired.
Retired…she stared into her drink and sighed.
“Damn. I just don’t have enough to do.”
 
——
 
Well, the drinking with Melika was fun. The bar warmed up after it was clear the newcomers were just there to drink the swill. In fact, everyone gave Mirn a hard time about his drinks, from Shirka to Jelaqua.
The [General] herself was so annoyed she actually grabbed the bottles and mixed up drinks better than he could.
“Weren’t you friends with Saliss at one point? Former Alchecorps, right? How can you not mix a drink?”
“You want to see me throw it at you? I’m good at that—damn it, why is this better?”
Whereupon Shirka was appointed temporary bartender for the night. Jelaqua only had two more drinks. She had a timetable to keep, but Melika seemed to have a hole in one of her…wait, she only had sandals.
Well, a hole somewhere because she put down drinks like they were water. Not that she wasn’t soused; she got chattier as the night progressed, and she was interesting when you got to talking with her.
“Everyone thinks I’m from Chandrar or native-born to Pallass. There’s no one I can talk to about home, Jelaqua.”
“How long did you live in Baleros, then?”
Melika counted on her claws.
“Oh, until fourteen or so? I’m not actually that sure. I bought a ticket for Izril with all the gold I’d saved—there’s just not the same prospects in Baleros for, well, engagements.”
“Ah, you were planning on marrying into wealth even then?”
The [Socialite] glanced at Jelaqua swiftly, perhaps to see if the Selphid was mocking her, but Jelaqua was cool as the cucumber floating in her drink. Melika nodded.
“Yes, well, I was attractive and good at catching people’s eyes. But Baleros—you either marry a [Mercenary Captain] or try to work your way into the Great Companies, and Niers Astoragon’s wasn’t one of the four back then. So it felt like I’d have to work my way into another culture.”
“Dullahans, who have problems with outsiders, Lizardfolk and the Nagas—pretty tricky, and they were bad before Niers took them out—Gazers—hah!—or Centaurs. Of the lot, you’d do okay with Maelstrom’s Howling, but that would mean they’d want kids. Centaur kids.”
Melika shuddered.
“I’ve heard it can be done, but that was pretty much my train of logic. So I bought a ticket. Chandrar was out; I’m just another Garuda there and, worse, an outsider. Terandria I thought about, but I felt like I lacked the social graces, and if I’m the lone Garuda…then I heard about Pallass. And its Garuda population.”
“Ah, so that’s how you met Werdin.”
Melika stirred her drink with a claw.
“It wasn’t easy. But I did have a good run of things until we tied the knot. I didn’t expect…Salkis. I’ve tried to connect with her, truly, but I can’t blame her for seeing me as a gemsnatching hoard-wife.”
“If she talked to you for five minutes, I doubt you’d give that impression. You’re not all fancy feathers. Surviving in Baleros as a non-native species and making a trip to a foreign continent isn’t easy. You’re not as innocent as some of your peers.”
For instance, Jelaqua had noticed Melika did have a dagger on the inside of a thigh. Melika waved the compliment off.
“I’m not you, Captain Ivirith. I—I know Salkis is running with a dangerous crowd. She hints sometimes…”
“So? Show her you’ve got some claws as well. Kids think they’re the only brave, rebellious, and original people in the world. They think age means we lost all that, not that we survived.”
Jelaqua Ivirith grinned, and Melika wore a delighted smile, then shook her head.
“No…Jelaqua, for such an upstanding Gold-rank Captain, you speak like a [Rebel]! That’s not the model I need to be, Jelaqua. To fit into Drake society, to get ahead, I have to be, the kids have to be exceptional. It’s possible! Ophala is a wonderful example, and I just wish Anama and the others would make an effort. I know it’s hard, but I did it.”
She was frustrated and actually slapped the bar with a hand before wincing.
“Ow. They just don’t ever put any effort in and give up. I wish I had more support. With a bit more actual care and attention, they’d all become wonderful people, I know it!”
Her eyes were filled with a beautiful conviction. One not reflected in Jelaqua Ivirith’s gaze, which was lit by her internal body and some lamps on the tables. Mirn silently served them both another drink as Jelaqua met his eyes, then drained her cup.
“It’s hard to make yourself into a perfect statue when you start out looking like they do. Everything and everyone tells them they’re flawed and worthless. They try to climb up, and someone steps on their fingers, Melika. You can’t blame them.”
“Captain Jelaqua—!”
Melika bristled, then went quiet. She drank from a straw in her drink before muttering.
“I know that. I know how little Pallass cares. Every time I run a concert, everyone fills me with hope and donations and sends me little [Messages] about the children they met and how much they’re glad I’m doing what I’m doing. In a week, they’ve all but forgotten. If I suggest a fundraiser before a year has passed, someone asks me if I’m pushing this too hard. People who abandon Scorchling children the moment they’re born without even going to a [Healer]’s, or just leave them in an alleyway—”
She leaned over the bar, staring down at the floor for a long moment. Then, Jelaqua thought, forced herself to relax, to smile ruefully.
“We do what we can, Jelaqua. Causing a fuss works when it is to a good cause, in the right way. Just lashing out earns you nothing but trouble. Take Werdin for example. I’m a credit to the Blackwing name with him, and he sees how much value I bring to our relationship. Along with personal attraction, of course. But we must prove ourselves. The first real generation of Uplifting Wings is struggling, but once we can show people how good they can be…then it’ll get better.”
The Selphid nodded and wondered how long Melika had been working as director of Uplifting Wings. It was probably something you could look into. What she said spoke to parts of Jelaqua; she could imagine Melika giving the same speech to her coworkers and staff. What the Selphid said, as she toasted Melika, was:
“It’s a beautiful dream, Melika. I hope it happens, I do. I don’t have the patience to fight wars like that. I’m an adventurer.”
“Oh, Jelaqua. Please. We’ve known real wars in Baleros. This is just my—work.”
“If you say so. But I can see a woman fighting. Hey Mirn, about that tab?”
 
——
 
They were walking back out of the bar and it was late. Not a lot of people on the 4th Floor—there was definitely some crime, so Jelaqua told Melika she’d better fly.
“Not much crime if you just flap up. C’mon.”
“Nooo. I’ll crash. Walk with me, please?”
Jelaqua sighed. She had to walk the unsteady Garuda upwards. She should have called someone to get Melika—her assistant or someone—but this was probably safer. For Melika. Jelaqua kept an eye over her shoulder, hoping she could get this next part out of the way…
Ah, perfect. She had to walk them in a circle by the orphanage twice, but the tail finally picked them up. They must have missed the bar. Then Jelaqua led them towards the grand stairwell. They were passing down some open streets when the gang finally showed up in a clatter of boots.
“Hey, Selphid, drop your coin pouch. And freeze!”
They were slightly out of breath from running, and young. Mid-twenties. Drakes and two Gnolls. No familiar faces—Jelaqua turned from the trash can she’d been closing.
“Oh no. A mugging!”
She had a grin on her face. Then she made a fist as they spread out; there were about a dozen of them, most with knives. One lit theirs with a bit of oil, and Jelaqua snorted.
“Listen, kids. I may be drunk, but I’m a Gold-ranker. Retired, but you lot put away your knives or I’ll trash all of you.”
Her rank made several visibly hesitate. They stared over her shoulder as Jelaqua strolled forwards, rolling up her sleeves. The leader, a burly Drake, barked.
“Drop your coins or we’ll cut you up! We’re the Flameblades, right?”
“And what’re you going to do about it if I don’t, beansprout? I eat Crelers for breakfast. C’mon, if you’re doing this, let’s—argh!”
The club hit the back of Jelaqua Ivirith’s head, and she staggered as the [Rogue] sneaking up behind her hit her with all their strength. That was the signal; the gang charged her and began to kick and punch at the Selphid.
“You—wait—the pain—help!”
Gold-ranker or not, Jelaqua only managed a few swings before they clubbed her to the ground. She kept writhing around as they stomped on her, before going slack. The panting gang kept punching and beating her before their leader called out.
“Alright, stop, stop—don’t kill her, idiots! Someone get her coin pouch! See if she’s got any gear on her.”
“Gold-rank gear? Wait…she’s got no bag of holding. Just some gold.”
“Damn. She must’ve given most of it away to the damn charity. Fuck—okay. Let’s go then!”
The Flameblades were visibly crestfallen, and a few went to kick the unconscious Selphid lying on the street. They were tossing coins to each other and searching around for witnesses when someone cursed.
“Ivirith?”
“Who the h—”
That was the last thing the gang leader said before a foot took him out of reality for a while. The rest of the Flameblades were still staring at their leader flying when General Shirka leg-swept another. She punched them into the floor as their feet left the ground and hit a third gang member like a wagon.
They never had a chance. The 2nd Army’s [General] didn’t need weapons or armor; she’d been trained by Saliss of Lights, and she stomped through the entire group so fast that the trash can lid barely had time to lift.
“Oh, General Shirka! Thank goodness! Help, help! Someone call the Watch! And a [Healer]! Jelaqua, are you alive?”
Melika Blackwing had been hiding in the trash can and poked a disheveled head out. Shirka jumped as the gang lay on the ground, unconscious or groaning in agony. The [General] strode over.
“How the hell did they jump Ivirith? She wasn’t that drunk—”
“One of them hit her from behind! Oh, oh, it was terrible! She made me hide here, and then—I—I have her bag of holding!”
“Excellent. Up you get, come on. I’ll grab Ivirith—we’re getting out of here before reinforcements show. I don’t want you or her in danger. We’ll summon the Watch.”
Shirka yanked Melika out of the trash can, then picked up Jelaqua. She and Melika raced away from the fight scene as the unconscious Flameblades littered the ground. Shirka had good instincts…though the Flameblades were probably only twelve strong. She clearly knew how to behave on the street, but hadn’t much actual practice. A lifetime of soldiering did that to you.
Melika had even worse instincts. She went flapping drunkenly along, shouting.
“Watch! Watch, help! There’s been a mugging! Call a [Healer]! Oh, Ancestors, is she alive?”
Shirka was feeling at Jelaqua’s head with a frown.
“She should be. Selphids can’t be hurt from exterior damage that badly—unless she was just that drunk? Jelaqua, can you hear—”
The Selphid’s head rose, and she pushed herself out of Shirka’s arm so fast the [General] recoiled. The Selphid landed nimbly and glowered.
“I’m fine. And I’d have been more fine if you hadn’t beaten that gang down! Now I’ve gotta deal with that. Melika, stop screaming.”
“Wh—”
Both Drake and Garuda recoiled as Jelaqua cricked her neck and glowered. General Shirka glanced back the way she’d come.
“A feint? But why?”
“Think about it—well, I guess you didn’t realize what was going on. Not your fault. Thanks, Shirka. Melika, I told you I’d be fine. That’s a Pallassian gang? Wow, they’re soft. They didn’t even break my skull.”
Jelaqua had been worked over and on the losing end of fights in the street more than once. Being in a dead body meant you didn’t suffer the loss as badly—even if they knew you were a Selphid, most people didn’t have the guts to stomp until your head was fully caved in. But damage was damage. She grimaced.
“I’m still going to need a new body, though. Damn, I liked this one. Okay, General, can you take Melika back to her mansion? I just need my bag of holding—thanks Melika—and I’ll be fine.”
“But wh—Jelaqua, I thought they had you!”
Melika was wide-eyed and still shaking. Shirka, on the other hand, was glancing from Jelaqua to the street and putting together the chain of events. She nodded.
“Apologies about that.”
“Eh, like I said, you couldn’t have known. I have to go. They’re just playing dead, and if they think the Watch is coming…see you two later! Melika, good drinks! Let’s do it again sometime!”
“Er—um—thank you?”
They watched Jelaqua race off, and Melika flapped there a few moments until she crashed onto the ground. Shirka helped her up. The Garuda gestured.
“What was that?”
The [General] rubbed at her chin.
“At a guess? Street politics. You wouldn’t happen to know who wanted Adventurer Ivirith beat down, would you? Someone that Jelaqua didn’t want to…stymie or endanger?”
Melika stared blankly at Shirka, aghast at the very notion of having underworld ties. Then her eyes widened.
“Maybe—oh no!”
 
——
 
Anama was waiting back at the Flameblade’s hideout, peeling a filched orange for her boyfriend. She was antsy, and when she heard the clatter of feet, she jumped up.
“Hey, did you get—”
The sight of the beaten-up gang limping in made her go silent with shock. Then the [Gang Leader], Mortton, stumbled in.
“Mort! What happened?”
“What happened? We got the Gold-rank, no problem, but then a damn [General] showed up! And there was no gold, artifacts, or the bicycles!”
He hissed at her, and she backed up as the wrath of the Flameblades turned on her.
“Hey! What [General]? I didn’t know about that? Thill was on scout duty!”
She pointed at the Gnoll who’d been tailing Jelaqua all night. The Gnoll had a bruise from being thumped for losing the Selphid once; she protested.
“I’m not the one who said she was an easy mark! We did this for you!”
“I knew she was bad luck!”
Another member exclaimed. They spat, furious and hurt, badly in two cases where Shirka had broken ribs with ease. Mort was just looking around at his gang, who wouldn’t be able to act for a while. He rounded on Anama, an easy target.
“You cost us big, Anama. There’s no healing potions, and your intel was screwy. I did this as a favor to you. How’re you gonna make it up?”
“Hey! You said you’d help because she choked me out! Mort, c’mon. We’re a couple…”
Anama tried to put a clawed hand on his chest, but he slapped it down. Then cursed; she was still so hot it was like touching an iron.
“We should have gotten that stupid Garuda noble! But no, you don’t think she’s worth it! We can’t get the coin pouches going to the charity you were bragging about, you can’t find any keys to the mansion—”
He began jabbing Anama in the chest, and she flinched.
“Mort, that hurts! Stop it!”
She backed up as the Flameblades clustered up, venting both their fury and grudges built up. Thill, who until Anama had been Mort’s girlfriend, whispered.
“I told you she was just using you, boss! She can’t fight, she leaves a trail—”
“I flamed off that gang yesterday for you! Don’t pin this all on me! I’m sorry, okay? Mort, c’mon—”
He was making quick calculations in his head. The Drake cast around, then hissed.
“Someone get the door. This is a bad score, right? What happens when someone makes a bad score?”
A silence fell, and every eye turned to Anama. Thill finished the sentence.
“They pay for it.”
“Wait, wait—”
The Scorchling was backing up now, and someone went for the door. Her eyes were wide.
“Mort? Mort, please—”
The door closed, letting no sound out of their hideout in one of the unused buildings marked for demolition, and then terrible things would ensue. What, exactly, depended on how much of a bastard Mort would be.
“See, this is why I hate kids. You’re almost old enough to be full monsters, but I can never tell. Do you work her over and leave her in the street? Tie her up, sell her to a [Slaver]? Force her to work in a brothel? Something darker? And all this because Shirka couldn’t help but be a hero.”
The door halted a millimeter before closing, and the Selphid shoved it open—and the Drake behind it—as she strolled in. Again, the Flameblades saw the surreal image of someone flying through the air until they crashed onto the ground and lay there.
“Wh—oh shit.”
The nearest Drake was the [Rogue] who’d hit her. He went for his daggers. Good instincts, but Jelaqua wasn’t letting him sneak up on her this time. She kicked him in the groin. He made a high-pitched sound and fell over.
“How’d she find—”
Gnoll with a club. Jelaqua kicked him in the balls, and he doubled over and curled up.
“Get out! Get—”
The third Flameblade was a female Drake, but in Jelaqua’s experience, if you kicked anyone that hard in the groin, they tended to lie down. Which this Drake did, whimpering.
“We beat you down! We did!”
Mort drew a flaming dagger as he backed up, eyes wide. Anama was frozen as Jelaqua Ivirith walked into their hideout. Her skull was dented in, and one of her eyes was unfocused; gashes on her body from their boots and blades showed eerily bloodless skin, but a faint orange glow came from her eyes.
Selphid. Bodysnatcher of Baleros. Jelaqua smiled as she beckoned.
“Kid, you could have left your girlfriend alone and you still have the coins you took from me. Does love mean nothing? Sorry, Anama. He’s not a keeper.”
She glanced at the Scorchling, and Mort lunged. Jelaqua blocked the blade with her hand; it went through, and she closed her fist. Wrenched the dagger out of his grip and plucked it out.
The color drained from the Drake’s face as he scrambled back, and Jelaqua eyed it.
“Cheap enchantment. Doesn’t even cauterize my wounds. Next time, remember this, Mort.”
She stepped forwards in a blur and pivoted to his side. He twisted, and she threw a punch.
“Any other Gold-ranker will kill you. Just. Like. This.”
 
——
 
Anama had been in street fights and even helped mug a few flatfoots. She’d seen some big gang fights only as a spectator. But she’d never seen someone hit someone and just…fold them up.
Mort wasn’t moving. Was he even breathing? He lay there, all tangled up, mouth open, eyes wide, and he might be dead.
They all might be dead. Not a single Flameblade was on their feet. The young Drake woman was shaking so bad that when Jelaqua turned, she tried to run.
Anama slammed into a table and some chairs, tripped, fell, and got up.
“No, nononono, please, I’m sorry! Don’t—”
She began screaming as Jelaqua grabbed her tail and hauled her back from the door. Anama shielded her face, and Jelaqua hoisted her up.
“Alright, let’s go.”
She hung Anama under one arm like a piece of luggage and kicked the hideout door off its hinges, then strode into the street. The Selphid was yawning.
“Which way d’you live? Probably that way. You know what? I’m too tired.”
She walked down a street and then dropped Anama. The Drake girl covered her face.
“Please, please don’t—I’m not gonna heal!”
More burn marks from her skin. Jelaqua Ivirith stared at her, then felt at her head.
“Yep, you’re too hot. Told you. Go back home and get in a bath. Cold as you can. If the well’s not working, go to a bathhouse. Even if they don’t like it, they have ones for the elderly that get scrubbed for dead scales, and Gnolls are hairy. Soak for at least twenty minutes. Oh, and don’t come back here and try to make up with this lot. They should grow a brain if I haven’t knocked it out of them, but you showing your face is a surefire way to get hurt.”
She fished in her bag of holding, and Anama stared at her. After a moment, Jelaqua placed something on the Drake’s forehead. The girl flinched, then stared as a few silver coins bounced onto the ground.
“You’re not going to—?”
The Selphid stood with her back to the moon, eyes still faintly shining. It was impossible to read her face as she spoke.
“I don’t hit idiot kids.”
Anama stared back at the Flameblade’s destroyed headquarters. Jelaqua glanced at it.
“They graduated. You’re young, stupid, and if it were any other Gold-ranker, any other active Gold-ranker, half that gang would be dead. Go home and soak. If you had mugged Melika or she’d talked about being robbed, I’d have graduated you too. That gang’s got nothing for you, kid. They’re not a family. Family doesn’t throw you out the moment something bad happens.”
She turned on her heel and began to walk towards the grand staircases, shaking her head. Anama sat there, realizing she was being lectured, not beaten down for her mistakes. She grabbed the silver coins, then clenched her claw over them.
“What would you know about what I’ve been through? You or Melika? You’re both rich and—”
The Selphid was half a street away, and at this point, Anama really should have known how fast she could move. Because Jelaqua turned and was lifting Anama up by the shirt in less than a second. Now her eyes narrowed, and she growled.
“I’m a Halfseeker of Izril. Call me and my team privileged and I will feed you that word. You think Melika’s life is easy?”
She held Anama up as the Scorchling girl gasped. Jelaqua stared up at the cracked moon and whole one.
“Well, maybe it is. I doubt it; I think she worked to marry some Drake who I’m not convinced knows she can think. But she’s still the one trying to help you. Don’t beat down her because life’s raining on you. She’s not your enemy. And stop trying to make me one. Bath.”
She dropped Anama. The Drake girl landed on her butt and sat there, too afraid to say anything until Jelaqua Ivirith was out of sight. Only then did Anama stop holding the coins in her hands; she’d begin to deform them if she kept holding onto them with her burning hands.
She tried not to, she did, because it would hurt and it was embarrassing and she was too old for them. But then the girl sobbed for a bit.
When a Scorchling wept, they cried steam.
Jelaqua Ivirith kicked every rock and piece of trash between here and her home on the 8th Floor.
 
——
 
Amazingly, the party at her house was still going when Jelaqua got back. When she walked in all messy, everyone turned.
“Jelaqua!”
Maughin started, but she lifted her hands.
“I know it looks bad. Gang jumped me and Melika. My body’s busted up, but I’m fine.”
“Are they alive?”
She smiled as Felkhr relaxed. She went to hug Maughin and nodded at Grimalkin.
“They’re fine. Just beat down.”
“I’m sorry your body was damaged. Is it something the Watch is handling?”
“Eh, they’re kids. I just worked them over and left. I don’t believe in the Watch arresting too many kids.”
He opened his mouth, then nodded. Lady Pryde Ulta was sniffing behind her bag as she sat on a couch.
“Yet another reason why Ulta lands are superior. Any wayward child we mind and look after. Unruly youths are a community’s problem.”
“Yeah, I’m sure they love that. Kevin and Rhaldon didn’t come back?”
“Oh, they did. I needed more crab! But they all left to argue about them damn engine-things. We’re playing Archmage’s Gambit. You in, Selphid?”
Pelt was at a table with some [Smiths] playing cards. Jelaqua waved a hand.
“I need to change bodies.”
“You’re sure you’re alright, Jelaqua?”
Maughin was all concern, but she just hugged him.
“I’m fine, Maughy. You know me. Tougher’n a Swamp Hydra.”
“I just can’t believe they touched you. How many were there? Thirty? Were they high-level?”
She picked up his head and whispered to him as she went to the basement where she kept her bodies in storage.
“I did it on purpose. I’ll tell you later. Everything going well here?”
“Oh, yes. We have a plan and proposal for the [Senators]. We’re just, um, drinking…”
He wore that guilty look of a husband having a night with the lads—and a few lasses—while the wife was out. Jelaqua Ivirith grinned.
“Without me? I’ll be out for some cards in no time! And I’d love a decent drink. I’ve been having pigpiss all night!”
So she went and had fun until they were seeing everyone staggering out of the house. Grimalkin and Pryde went out together, and he turned at the door.
“Ah, remember, I have a new initiative in my Training Gymnasium—a boxing ring. You’re all welcome to come by, and I would love the data.”
“Ooh! Another thing from the inn?”
Jelaqua grinned as she unsteadily cleaned the tables. Pryde thrust out her chest.
“From my lands, actually. We have a promising young man who’s revolutionized our programs. A [Professional Weightlifter], no less! Which puts us on parity with Pallass itself, Grimalkin. You have one, we have one.”
Grimalkin met Jelaqua’s eyes, and he nodded as the Selphid blinked. He smiled at Pryde with that strange expression of someone finding themselves falling uncontrollably in love. Jelaqua had seen it in a mirror a lot.
“I would never assume I was in a superior position to you, Pryde.”
That completely flummoxed the [Lady] of House Ulta, and she stood there for a few seconds before clearing her throat.
“Oh. Well then. Very good. To sleep!”
The door closed, and Jelaqua commented to Maughin.
“They’re so cute they make me sick. Okay, how was your day? Did you drink out our entire cabinet? Eh, I’ll buy more tomorrow.”
“I’m sorry, it was such a relief after all the stress…what happened? I thought you were going to the charity event you were late to. How did that turn into drinking?”
She caught him up as they cleaned up and went to bed, and Maughin was fairly aghast by a gang attacking her in the streets, even when she told him they were kids. He was from an upstanding family, she supposed.
“It’s fine, Maughy. I’ll just check on Melika in the morning…and Kevin…sleep well! We’re gonna be busy.”
She rolled over in bed as he put his head in the separate basket filled with pillows, and they slept. But Jelaqua didn’t immediately go to sleep.
In the darkness, she stared at the ceiling. And her lecture to Anama was sour in her mouth.
Easy for me to talk down to her when she’s probably unable to get most jobs. Kid’s living in an apartment without water…what was that about some act? Melika’s doing her best, but she and Anama have to know…
Scorchlings don’t make it to thirty most of the time. She’s a classic case. What would Halassia say? Damn it, Halassia…I could have used you. Instead you had to fight Garen—!
The orphanage looks good. Melika seems honest. But the older kids don’t have anyone. Ophala, right? She and Anama—
Why was Shirka at the Turnscale bar? Argh, I hope they’re safe.
None of my business. I’m just here. I hope Kevin’s not doing something stupid.
You can’t fix Anama’s problems like that. I know. I know, damn it. A bag of gold wouldn’t do a thing, and beating down that gang just means she’s alone now. It’s not my area. Melika can handle things.
Lots to do. Nothing to do.
Tons of stuff to keep her busy, nothing that made her…Jelaqua tossed and turned in bed, then remembered she hadn’t had sex with Maughin. Two nights in a row! She’d lose a level in her [Wife] class!
She was smiling about that and finally yawning as she went to sleep…Jelaqua Ivirith began to snooze without the voice that gave her levels, but that was fine. She was no [Drunkard], and that was the only class you could conceivable say she’d earned real experience in tonight.
 
——
 
—Jelaqua awoke and lay in bed as there was a clank and rustling in the night. Not sounds you ever wanted to hear when you were sure no one else was in the house but you…because now you were definitely unsure you were alone.
Maughin had heard it too. His eyes were open as his body fumbled around, and he whispered.
“Jelaqua? Did you hear…?”
The Gold-ranker listened.
“Sounds like a racoon in the kitchen. Be right back, I’ll just throw it out.”
Blearily, she rolled out of bed and walked out of the bedroom while adjusting her nightgown. Maughin was less confident, but the thing about being a Gold-rank [Warrior] was that you had little fear of what went bump in the night unless it was a loud damn bump.
She tip-toed to the kitchen without Seborn’s stealth, but silent enough for any Level 20 [Rogue], and realized the sounds and growling was too loud for your average raccoon. Jelaqua peered inside and saw a shape moving in the darkness, pulling out cabinets, eating whatever it could find—
 
——
 
Maughin heard the shout from Jelaqua then a howl and the sounds of fighting.
“Jelaqua? Jelaqua!”
He had to fumble his head onto his body and charged out of their bedrooms, armor clattering, holding a lamp as a weapon. He found Jelaqua in the kitchen, kneeling on something that thrashed and whined. Maughin froze as the huge, familiar shape heaved and collapsed, and Jelaqua panted.
“Maughin, dear? Call the Watch. We’ve got Raskghar.”
She was pinning one of them under one arm as he froze and stared at the bodies she sometimes wore for work. The Raskghar whined in pain as Jelaqua jerked her head towards the door.
“Now? And tell them to get me General Shirka.”
 
——
 
It was, in fact, Agent Zemize who appeared. The Drake marched past the Watch officers and flashed her badge to Watch Captain Qissa.
“Eyes of Pallass. Move the officers away, Watch Captain. We’ll have them all debriefed, and this is secret, top-level clearance only. We have a cage already on the way.”
“Curtains, I hope? I need to see your papers, Agent.”
Zemize faltered, then cursed and fumbled for her identification papers as Jelaqua glared at everyone. She was still sitting on the Raskghar, who’d given up trying to get away. After five long minutes of Qissa reading the papers in front of a visibly off-kilter Zemize, she handed them back.
“If I can ask—”
“No questions! Adventurer Ivirith, you’re also sworn to secrecy along with the other matters. It’s fortuitous you were the one to intercept this problem. Anyone else and this might have become a far larger issue. You have the city’s gratitude.”
Zemize pulled rank at last and nodded at Jelaqua. She was doing her best serious-agent attitude, and the Selphid wasn’t having it.
“Is that the only one or did more get out?”
“Classified, Adventurer. Rest assured, the situation is under control.”
“Really? It’s under control? Is that the only Raskghar or are there more? Because if there are more, and there’s not a plague of ‘Vorpal Rats’, then I’ll hunt them down myself. Answer my questions or I’ll use this Raskghar to beat you to death.”
Zemize, Qissa, and the Raskghar all eyed Jelaqua with considerable worry. The Eye of Pallass realized that the half-naked, very annoyed Selphid was not the person to try to pull rank on right now. She coughed.
“…That’s the only one. It broke confinement, and we’ve been searching for it since. I don’t know how it evaded us so long. They have—had tracking stones. I don’t get how it removed the one on it. Maybe it went dead?”
Jelaqua grunted; she’d had time to assess the condition of the Raskghar she was pinning. It was far healthier than the ones Pallass had taken—and it was the same damn group, she was sure! It still couldn’t overpower her, but it was closer than she wanted; only her superior leverage gave her the definitive edge.
“If it’s this wound on its neck, it looks like she ripped it out. Or someone else did for her. This is one of the smart ones. Small wonder she knew how to keep quiet. Though she seems to have gotten too hungry to keep hiding. Not a lot to eat if Pallass’ sewers are kept mostly rat-free.”
Zemize faltered. She eyed the Raskghar, and Jelaqua pointed down.
“She’s listening to us. Right?”
The Raskghar growled as she glared down and then, to everyone’s shock, rumbled.
“Yes. Not kill. Not kill…”
“It can talk?”
Qissa had a hand on her sword, and Zemize put a finger to her earhole.
“I want the Watch moved back. This is all private—there’s the cage now.”
A cage with a cloth barrier was being carried up towards them by [Soldiers], grunting at the weight. The Raskghar began to squirm, but Jelaqua just tightened her grip. And here was another face who looked woken from her sleep.
“Shirka.”
“Ivirith, that’s the third time I owe you tonight. Though it wasn’t 2nd Army that lost the Raskghar. Blame the facility. I told them they were too smart.”
General Shirka appeared as annoyed as Jelaqua felt. She crossed her arms as Agent Zemize strode over to her.
“General, we have this well in hand. You are giving away—”
“They’ve seen the Raskghar. What are you going to do, wipe their memories? One’s a Gold-rank adventurer and the other’s our Watch Captain. You can’t do it, and I’d want answers.”
Wipe our memories? Qissa stared at Shirka as the 2nd Army’s [General] inspected the Raskghar.
“This is the one that ate the Gnolls’ hearts. Jelaqua, can you get her up and in the cage? The lads and I can do it if you need help.”
“I’m fine. C’mon, you, up. If you want to be smart and try something, I’ve got a lot of rage against Nokha I can vent right now.”
The Raskghar didn’t fight. Instead, she whimpered.
“No, no hurt! I killed no one. Be nice, be gentle! No punishment!”
She went meekly back into the cage, and none of the women watching her believed the act for a second. Shirka exhaled.
“Okay. Agent, clean up this mess. Jelaqua, do you want to walk and talk?”
The Selphid stared blearily around the night street. The air was shimmering around her and Maughin’s house—probably spells to hide what was going on, but there were Watch officers and Eyes of Pallass everywhere. She glared at Shirka.
“What’s there to talk about? You’ve got secret Raskghar you’re training to use in combat?”
Shirka nodded. Zemize strode back over.
“The exact use of the Raskghar has not been determined, and the use of auxiliary forces in Walled City operations is completely legal under—”
“Shut up, we’re talking.”
Jelaqua glared at her. Then she turned back to Shirka.
“This would be a terrible special unit for 2nd Army.”
“On that, we agree. All of the idiots working on them keep talking about training them to military standards. What standards? If they marched and carried spears in formation, I’d trust them less. I’d rather have rabid warhounds.”
“Hmpf. Well, you’re smart. I’m going to sleep.”
Jelaqua stomped back towards her house. Zemize faltered.
“Don’t you want to know…?”
“I know everything! Tell your High Command they’re dumb as rocks! Chaldion would have known better!”
Jelaqua slammed the door. After a moment, General Shirka leaned over to Zemize.
“Chaldion wanted the Raskghar to begin with. But this isn’t their use case, Agent. Not my army. And frankly, a Raskghar that can break out of an underground facility and make it to the 8th Floor with the Watch and your Eyes of Pallass on alert?”
She eyed the Raskghar in the cage.
“I don’t think I want to know what the Grand Strategist was planning on using them for.”
So saying, the [General] whirled on her heel and marched off. Qissa eyed Zemize and strode off before she could be given orders. The Eye of Pallass stood there until she heard a strange sound from the cage.
The Raskghar giggled like a hyena. The Eye of Pallass scowled at it.
“Shut up.”
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith’s day did not get much better from there—at least, not at first. She was bleary and tired in the morning and thinking about special units in war.
Very common, actually. Chandrarian War Elephants, hyenas, monsters unleashed in battle like Hydras—you could even argue Griffins and Wyverns were just that.
They were very effective if used right; an expensive idiocy if not, and doubtless Pallass was checking to see if this was a worthwhile initiative. It was the kind of thing a nation did, Jelaqua knew.
She just…felt like it was Baleros all over. Baleros had tons of this kind of thing. Lizardfolk Death Battallions, War Hydras, War Walkers…and Selphids, her people, often got formed into such groups.
Niers Astoragon himself used Selphids not as expendable bands, but as the vanguards of his army. Which made them…better? They still died. She didn’t feel bad for the Raskghar; they were monsters who ate Gnolls and wanted to eat Mrsha.
But she didn’t like cages. Not when what was inside them could talk, and even without speech, she had never really liked menageries.
Not. Her. Problem.
She snapped her toothbrush, and that sort of began her day. Maughin was all cheer.
“I have to get to Master Pelt’s to work on those forge plans! He admitted, you know, that it’s a task and a half! And he wants to use my forge when it’s done!”
“That’s nice, dear. Charge him for it.”
“Charge him? I could never—!”
She sighed. Maughin still held that old Dwarf in too much esteem. Jelaqua rose.
“I’m going to the inn. I’ll be back tonight. We might have to fend for ourselves, okay?”
He assured her he’d find dinner, and she strode out and nearly ran into his younger sister.
Street Runner Linteca had a message for Jelaqua and a question.
“What happened here last night, Miss Jelaqua? Your neighbors say there was a commotion. Nothing wrong with my brother, I trust?”
“Classified.”
Jelaqua snapped back and was glad to see Linteca’s face grow slack. She snatched the missive from the young woman. Then brightened.
“Oh. A new body’s available.”
Linteca grimaced and wiped her hands as Jelaqua grew distracted with a Selphid’s business. Maughin came out of his home and blinked.
“Linteca? Ah, good morning. How is Mother…?”
Jelaqua let them natter on as she changed course. Her body broker had a new corpse to sell, and he’d offered the first choice to Jelaqua, as the richest Selphid in the city. You didn’t turn down a fresh corpse. She’d been hoping to spice things up in the bedroom with Maughin, and there was nothing like a new body for that.
 
——
 
There were about, oh, two hundred Selphids in Pallass by Jelaqua’s estimation. Which sounded like a lot until you realized how many millions of people were in Pallass; they were a drop in a bucket.
Even so, these Selphids all needed dead bodies, and while many people died in a city like Pallass each week, very few of them, or their families, wanted to sell their bodies in most cases.
Thus, a ‘body broker’, whose job it was to delicately negotiate for the deceased’s corpses, tended to appear in most cities. They handled the, uh, difficult explanations and took a fee to get the body to their clients, who were Selphids.
Obviously they tried to find fresh bodies in good condition, especially high-level ones or ones with good features, both literal and internal.
You could get a lot of bastards in that line of work. Jelaqua’s contact in Pallass seemed on the level, but he had that kind of lack-of-care when it came to the dead that came from too much time with them. She knew it well and tried to fight against it.
“Ciorg. Who’s passed?”
The Human man—he was a Selphid too—was rubbing his hands together as she came into the mortuary where he stored bodies. He had a gel on them she recognized; it was one of the Selphid preservatives that kept a body fresh when in use or storage.
“Got a real fresh one for you, Jelaqua. Right off the slab. Lucky find too; they weren’t five minutes in their apartment before someone glimpsed through the window. Natural causes, not, y’know, self-inflicted.”
“Show some respect, would you?”
Jelaqua glowered at him, and Ciorg put up his hands.
“Sorry, sorry. Just excited. I’ve got [Reverse Decay: Fifteen Minutes], so this is the freshest body I’ve had all year. Now, there’s a few downsides, but those nerve endings are going to be pristine.”
She rubbed at her face. This was where Jelaqua understood the existential horror that came to other species when they realized what Selphids did. She grumbled.
“Sorry, it’s been a bad night. Monster in my house.”
“Ouch. Well, you can make up for it with a new vessel. I did a quick check—didn’t touch anything, of course. Every nerve ending is intact. And they’re female, just like you like. Now, this isn’t a combat body, and, uh, looks aren’t everything, okay?”
It probably meant there was a visible wound or something. Jelaqua walked over to the sheet covering the body.
“If they’re badly wounded, I’ll need an illusion or it’ll freak Maughin out. Just wh—”
When she pulled the cloth back, Jelaqua recoiled. She froze up, and Ciorg raised his hands.
“Now, Jelaqua, it’s not the plague, just a condition they get. You ever heard of a—Scorchling? ‘Course you have. It’s fine now that they’re dead, but—”
It wasn’t Anama. But for one moment, the girl’s face had superimposed itself over the Drake woman lying there. Jelaqua began breathing again, and she saw that the scales that had fallen off the Drake’s body were only on her left side.
Scorch marks, tiny ones, and terrible burns on her flesh. Must be lightning-element. She seemed to be in her forties. Jelaqua whispered.
“How’d she die?”
“Heart stopped. Pretty common with them, I’m told. Amazing she made it this long. Like I said, looks aren’t everything, but the condition—”
Jelaqua stopped listening. She just bent over the dead Drake woman and gazed down at her face. Ciorg was no [Mortician]; he didn’t prepare the dead for burial and adjust their features to be peaceful. A desperate scowl was crossing this Drake’s face, and it looked like she had been struggling. Fighting to stay alive.
The Selphid’s head bowed.
“I’m sorry. Damn it. I’m so sorry.”
She looked up, but—of course—
Ciorg didn’t even know her name.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall was having a terrible day. Just the worst. He couldn’t fathom how it got worse than this.
First, he hadn’t been able to sleep after healing up from last night’s, well, last night and that morning’s fight-for-his-life. Because of the itching.
All the skin he’d healed with that potion from the burns had itched like thunder because, and he’d never known this, the dead skin had gotten trapped with the fresh stuff! It happened with burns, and he’d tried in vain to undo the terrible itch until he’d gone to get help. A very bleary Octavia had had to walk him through a secondary healing where his body ejected the dead skin cells.
That was gross and cost him most of his sleep, even with Erin’s [Twofold Rest]. Then Lyonette had begun badgering him about where he’d been and why he and Rhaldon were sneaking around, nearly catching on to his plans. Even if Mrsha didn’t snitch, she was too perceptive.
And then—he’d stubbed his toe when he was walking down to breakfast. So hard it cracked until there was blood.
Oh, and over breakfast he’d gotten a letter from Dwarfhalls Rest saying they weren’t interested in custom metalwork jobs. Kevin had asked why and gotten a two-word reply from their Forgemaster.
‘Ball bearings.’
Fuck, he’d forgotten that Pelt had had him unload the worst jobs on the Dwarves! They probably thought it was another way to give them shit work! And he couldn’t just entrust this job to any [Smith]; no one could forge on the level of Pelt or Maughin!
Kevin was trying to rationalize using a drop, just a drop, of healing potion on his toe. He knew they had lots. Rhaldon appeared just as weary as he slumped into the inn. Though he seemed to have been genuinely productive. He was a smart guy; Kevin blinked as he produced three bottles, each with a different substance inside.
“I have three different prototype fuels, Kevin. If you can sort the engineering side, even if it’s just your shop—”
Kevin slapped a hand over Rhaldon’s mouth and hissed.
“Dude, I told you, quiet!”
This was his project. Well, Rhaldon’s, but Kevin had had the same idea. He didn’t need to make this a thing in the inn; he motioned Rhaldon aside as Lyonette emerged, wincing, and seated herself at the table. Her daughters helped her sit, and Rhaldon stared at Lyonette.
“What’s wrong with her?”
“Cracked soul. C’mon, I’ll tell you later.”
“Cracked what?”
 
——
 
Rhaldon was shaking his head as they walked through the rains outside of the inn. It was, ironically, pretty safe as places went. Only the Antinium working on the new inn and Rheirgest’s [Necromancers] were around. Since no one knew where the inn was…no one came here.
Kevin had borrowed Erin’s sun umbrella, and it was awesome to stand under the sun as rain poured over the umbrella’s top. Lyonette had told him she’d gut him like a fish if he damaged or lost it, but a magical item had to be used, right?
Rhaldon broke the silence with his idea he’d come up with along with the fuel samples.
“Wooden prototypes.”
Kevin glanced at him, and Rhaldon elaborated.
“I understand this should be private and we’re having troubles with the [Smiths]. If Solar Cycles’ [Mechanics] can’t do what we need, then we make it out of wood. I’ve seen working wooden engines. Can’t we use Riverfarm’s [Carvers] and [Carpenters]?”
It wasn’t a bad idea, and Kevin mulled it over a few steps before shaking his head.
“No. Two reasons. One, none of my Skills work on wood. Second, it’s Riverfarm.”
“What’s wrong with Riverfarm? I was told that ‘Emperor Laken’ was one of us. I haven’t met him. Is, ah—is he as pretentious as the name indicates?”
“No…well, he’s certainly got an ego. I haven’t hung out with him much either. I just don’t trust him like I trust Erin and her people. This has to stay in-house, Rhaldon. It’s not going to be something the Unseen Empire can use, or Pallass.”
“That makes it so much harder, Kevin. Don’t we have to partner with some power eventually?”
Rhaldon’s comment made Kevin smile. He turned and pointed back at Liscor, barely visible in the rains.
“That’s the thing, Rhaldon. Erin had to do that. She worked with Ullsinoi, and Liscor and Pallass pushed her around, and she hated it, but she did it. Yeah, we could trust Laken. But you know, Ryoka trusted him with trebuchet designs. A few months later, Tyrion Veltras showed up at Liscor with a bunch of trebuchets from Laken’s place and nearly sieged the city.”
“Oh. Shit. Sorry, I didn’t know about that. Did he take the city?”
The [Chemist] turned pale; he didn’t know that lore. Kevin gave him an easy smile.
“No, they didn’t. But it cost a lot of lives. I wasn’t there either, by the way. All I’m saying is…Erin paid a huge price to get us here. We don’t need other powers. She’s the power, and I’m backing her.”
He led Rhaldon over the bridges, and the [Chemist] glanced at him.
“So I suppose the nobles of Izril are out? If we really need experts, Lord Calidus would help. He’s…eccentric, but genius.”
“Calidus? It rings a bell, but I dunno why. Last name?”
“Calidus Reinhart. He’s the smartest guy I’ve ever met. Between him and Zeomtoril, that [Polymath]—”
Kevin held up his hands urgently.
“Whoa, whoa. Reinhart? The only one I trust is Magnolia and only to make tea. I’d never share anything with him, Rhaldon.”
That felt like a generalization, and it annoyed the [Chemist] a bit; Kevin didn’t even know Calidus. But he was willing to agree that on principle, Calidus and Zeomtoril weren’t exactly high on the trust scale. Certainly, Calidus talked about his family like vipers…Rhaldon exhaled.
“So we’re without manufacturing?”
“I didn’t say that. No [Smith] north or south of here is gonna leap to help us without being overpaid or told what we’re working on. No…normal [Smiths], at any rate. I think we’ve gotta get more interesting. I’m just thinking how to get Rinli on board with this and how to move back and forth without being spotted. The door’s no good unless Liska can make a secret entrance…and spies can watch her. Plus, you might freak.”
“…About what?”
Kevin turned and gave Rhaldon a huge smile.
“Goblins. There’s one group who I’d trust with this and who can metalwork…just not at scale, maybe.”
“Goblins? As in the ones who fought 2nd Army?”
“Yep. That’s why I’m not sure. You and Rinli—let me tell you about Goblins, Rhaldon. You a fan of racism?”
Rhaldon gestured at his face.
“What do you think? I did also see the Goblin King and that Goblin Lord, though. Not exactly reassuring. She blew up a [King] and his entire palace. They’re still mourning and broadcasting the devastation in Terandria.”
“Aha. See, that makes them look a tiny bit bad. So let me tell you about the Goblins I know…”
 
——
 
When in doubt, Goblins. That was Kevin’s fallback plan, but it had a number of flaws. Including the fact that getting to Goblinhome, especially if it moved, was difficult.
Well, that and convincing Rhaldon to talk to them. The [Chemist] was highly sympathetic to the idea not all Goblins were monsters. But he was also allergic to putting himself in the crosshairs, which was also fair given Goblinhome’s publicity right now. And Kevin knew Rinli was on the level and knew about the inn, but an entire tribe of Rags’ people might be hard for her, let alone the others.
But if not Goblins, then who?
The two were walking some of the wooden bridges connecting the inn to the other hills. You could in theory get back to Liscor, but it was a maze of bridges from here, and Kevin knew sometimes they sank or got unmoored. He just took Rhaldon westwards towards a hill set along the mountains.
Rheirgest was ivory and stone. It looked cool as hell from afar, like some underworld village rising in the rains, and Rhaldon shivered.
“I forgot there were so many [Necromancers] here.”
Kevin was about to assure him they were chill when the young man added.
“I’m not into spooky stuff, but they have an amazing sense of style.”
The [Engineer] smiled.
“Rhaldon, it’s great to talk with someone else from Earth. Everyone else just gets scared. Want to visit real quick? They’re all kinds of friendly. Just don’t scream if a skeleton walks out to serve drinks, okay?”
“No promises.”
 
——
 
By the time they were walking around Rheirgest, something was bothering Rhaldon. He kept glancing around as Kevin tried to come up with ideas.
“Okay, Goblins are our first choice. Let’s say Rags shoots us down or we can’t make it work. Long-shot solutions. Either the Steelfur tribe in the Great Plains or Fetohep. Fetohep seems busy, but he’s got a kingdom. And the Steelfur Tribe is all trustworthy and knows about Earth. Rose has an in with them. You might have to travel back and forth, but…those are our best shots.”
“I’m…interested in going to the Meeting of Tribes. It’s a long route, and I’ve only done it once, but Termin says Drake lands are safer than the north in many ways, if I have the papers. I could apply for a passport today. Khelt is harder, of course. Are you suggesting we go to Chandrar?”
It was great that Rhaldon was on board with this. Kevin scratched his head, debating that himself as Rhaldon cast around. Being in the same continent as the King of Destruction…
I can’t stay at Erin’s inn forever. Maybe it was an idea? He had more for the future, but all that just to work on one of his plans seemed like too much. Damn. He felt like he was missing something or forgetting it!
The houses of bones all had that sort of, uh, ‘evil empire’ or ‘graverisen village’ appearance to them, but they were individually very unique. Some didn’t have much decoration, but the [Necromancers] could add little skulls to the houses or even carve screaming faces on the doormats—also made of little bones strung together—as they pleased.
Even Pisces didn’t have their fine manipulation owing to his self-taught knowledge. In fact, the Rheirgest villagers had adapted quite well to their new homes.
Rittane’s father, Dorkel, was drinking some coffee as he stared out of his porch at the rains and the floodwaters of Liscor. He nodded to another man who’d emerged from his house. This is how their conversation went as the two young Earthers stopped to listen:
“Likenost.”
“Dorkel. Morning.”
“It’s raining again.”
“Yup. Like yesterday. And every day for the last three months.”
The two [Necromancers] stared at the Floodplains. After a moment, one swatted at a glowing Acidfly buzzing near them.
“I wonder what we’ll do next year when there’s no construction work.”
“Fish, probably.”
“Yep.”
The two [Necromancers] gazed across the Floodplains of Liscor with the eyes of men contemplating a future in which you sat with a hook and line and occasionally pulled at it for twelve hours each day. Then Dorkel’s eyes brightened.
“I’ve been working on my latest fishing-undead. Here, take a look. I’m hoping to catch way more fish today.”
He snapped his fingers, and a skeleton strode out of his house. It was normal-sized, at least in theory, but he’d elongated its legs and blown out its ribcage as if it had been the most barrel-chested man in the world. Then—Dorkel had torn out the ribs and replaced them with dangling lines of skeletal hooks. The fishing-skeleton walked down towards the water and began to fire the hooks, where they sank; it could pull each line back in individually with clever little spools he’d worked into the back of its frame.
Likenost smiled.
“Good look, Dorkel. Is each one individually spooled? I can imagine you’ll catch a lot, but I’m after bigger game. Observe!”
He opened his doors, and a shark with four arms and legs crawled out. The skeleton of a huge fish had been given limbs to crawl towards the water, and Likenost pointed out the huge harpoon in its mouth.
“I present to you the Shark That Walks, version 3.5! It goes into the water and shoots whatever it wants.”
“Oh, I applaud! But it looks like it might be in danger of being attacked?”
“Always a hazard, I admit, but the repair costs in mana are worth it when it reels in a big fish. The only thing it can’t do are the Lurkersnatch ones or Rock Crabs; not enough torque.”
“Hmm. What if you put an anchor on it? Maybe with a bone-chain tail so it can anchor, then pull in…”
“Dorkel, you’re a genius. Do you have time for this? You’re not working, are you?”
“Nope, just the wife. And what she doesn’t know won’t kill her…”
They were hurrying down to the water past Kevin and Rhaldon as the two young men stared at the horrors of bones—and engineering. Kevin’s mouth was slightly open as he turned to Rhaldon.
“They’re so spooky, but it looks like fun, doesn’t it? I get the heebie-jeebies sometimes, but they are good people.”
Rhaldon was more impressed anyone could use the words ‘heebie-jeebies’ without turning into a Scooby Doo character. He nodded at Dorkel and Likenost.
“They can manipulate that bone without a problem, can’t they? And I’ve seen them doing fine work; I was there when they helped prototype the bone bicycles.”
“Oh, yeah. They are good at that. Have you seen Elosaith’s home? He does intricately fine work. He’s even got a clock he said he made out of bone for fun. Little gears and everything. Some of them are weirdos, though. Like Ama. I’m pretty sure one of the women has a bone ‘husband’…”
Kevin was rambling about the [Necromancers] when he finally caught onto what Rhaldon was thinking. He stopped, then blinked.
“Wait…no. Rhaldon, that would be crazy. That’s like an Erin-level idea, and I mean that in the most complimentary way.”
Rhaldon was smiling hesitantly. It was crazy. Structurally, it’d never hold up back on Earth…would it? He actually didn’t know. Steel was so much more superior, but if you had the time and energy, you could maybe make one that worked?
And structurally didn’t even count when you had magic here. He spoke out loud, thinking.
“It was never feasible back on Earth, but that’s simply because there’s no reason to work with a material like bone when metal or even wood is infinitely simpler—and easier to acquire. But why not? In fact, do we even need an engine?”
“What?”
“Do we need an engine? Or are we wrongheaded in how we’re thinking, Kevin? Think about it. Can an undead creation produce the same effect as an engine?”
“Dude. Dude…Pisces has his undead chariot. But you’re saying create an undead engine?”
Rhaldon spread his hands as his mind suddenly lit up, and he felt like a fool.
“The entire process of an engine is to convert fuel into movement. Is it even that efficient compared to, say, converting mana into movement? Is it possible to…of course it is! We have Golems and undead who walk around. A necromancy-powered engine doesn’t necessarily need pistons or the same cylinders. All it needs to do is move the vehicle. Am I wrong in my speculation?”
Kevin raised a finger, thinking hard.
“Bone’s still not as strong as metal! And it’s harder to enchant. Only pure metals take enchantments well. Anything else and it reduces. But—I know bones can get super tough depending on if it’s a magical creature. And some of the [Necromancers] can work on things in real-time. Look!”
They saw Dorkel and Likenost adjusting their skeletons with ease. Rhaldon whispered back.
“And they have a good understanding of how things work. They’re practically [Engineers]—of bone.”
“Dude. Are we doing this? Are we making…a Death Racer?”
Rhaldon scratched at his head.
“I was going to say a Bone Car. Undead Chariot? Animated Vehicle?”
They looked at each other and chorused.
“Skelecar!”
Then they ran down the hill towards Dorkel and Likenost. The two [Necromancers] jumped, and Dorkel searched around for his wife. But when they heard what Kevin and Rhaldon had to say…Dorkel rose with great dignity and put his hands behind his back.
“So you’re saying you have some kind of engineering problem much like the world-famous bicycles that we would have to make out of bone?”
“That requires multiple forms, possibly in a competitive spirit wherein the best and most efficient one would be crowned champion?”
Likenost added, stroking his chin. Kevin put his hands together somberly, like a priest giving a benediction.
“Plus, we’ll pay you in gold. And, uh, we do it in the inn with free drinks and food?”
The two men thought about it, and then looked around furtively. Dorkel leaned over.
“Me and my wife do fine work. With Likenost, we could be exclusive on this job—”
The other man was nodding rapidly. Right up until a window flew open and another [Necromancer] wearing a bone mask pointed dramatically.
“Not without me! They’re doing something interesting! Elosaith! Elosaaaaaiith—”
Then every [Necromancer] in Rheirgest was appearing to get a piece of the project. Master Elosaith himself poked his head out of his bone-mansion, beaming.
“Ah, good. I was beginning to get bored.”
Kevin gulped as he fumbled at his side for a speaking stone.
“Rinli? Hey, yeah, uh—we’re going to need a second shop. A big one. Can you come over, please? We just found our manufacturing. Yeah—no, no, no Goblins today. You don’t need a gift basket. Wait, you had a gift basket? Bring that with you. Tell me, Rinli. How…do you feel about skeletons?”
 
——
 
When Jelaqua Ivirith slumped into The Wandering Inn, she found no Kevin or Rhaldon. When she was directed to Rheirgest, she found the two young men talking excitedly in the rain with about fifty [Necromancers] who were practically founding a new warehouse on the spot.
“Factory! Fac-to-ry! And it’s secret. Top secret, got it? Good thing no one comes here. I want this all under wraps! No one says a word, and uh, we make this village even more unappealing!”
“So we scatter poop on the ground or something?”
A skeptical [Necromancer] asked. Kevin waved his hands.
“No, just more undead! More decorations! Heads on pikes! Anything so no one comes here but us. And anti-scrying spells, the works! Top secret—oh, hey, Jelaqua.”
Kevin was shouting as Rhaldon just stared at a three-dimensional replica of his sketches rising before his eyes.
“Oh my…you can just make it?”
An old grandmother was grinning as she flicked her fingers over the ivory shaping itself to her will.
“Sure can, sonny! Even put on some decorative spikes and death’s heads, just to make it look better.”
“Maybe don’t do that on the engine block, but when it comes to the chassis, you can go nuts. Can you make it move?”
“You mean animate it? Kid, I could make your great granddad dance a 5-step!”
Jelaqua stopped as Kevin turned to her.
“Jelaqua, look! We’re making the cars! This is going to be crazy! Necromancy meets industry! Necro-engineering! Necroneering!”
“Terrible name. Hey, Kevin, so…looks like you don’t need Pelt? You good?”
“Better than good! Listen, with the [Necromancers], we can prototype everything! Plus they’re [Mages] so they can do a lot of enchanting with their bones that Hedault can’t because he’s one guy—”
Jelaqua cut Kevin off as he began to spell out exactly how phenomenal and world-changing this was. And she was sure it would be.
“Great, great. And you’re not murdering yourself fighting monsters solo, yet?”
Kevin hesitated. Jelaqua was rather distracted; she kept glancing back at the inn and at her feet.
“No…actually, I’d love those lessons, but Elosaith says I can fight their undead any time I want. For, uh, free.”
“Always love to see a kid bare-knuckle one of our skeletons. You last five rounds, we buy you drinks!”
The old grandmother cheerfully spoke up. Jelaqua slapped Kevin on the back. He fell on his face from the impact.
“Ow.”
“Great. Oops, sorry about that Kevin. I’m just gonna…hey, how’d you heal yourself from those blast burns? Do you have any spare potions at Solar Cycles?”
“Uh…spare potions? Jelaqua, oh, right, you don’t know. We have tons. You want some, go ask Dalimont. Super secret, but yeah, we could hook you up.”
“Really, tons? Perfect. Right. I’ll just go there and…you sure you’re okay?”
Jelaqua turned back as Kevin picked himself up. He nodded.
“You sure you’re okay, Jelaqua?”
She pointed blankly at her face.
“Who, me? Never better. I’ve got nothing to do anyways. Except this one thing. Be right back…”
She walked off, and Kevin stared at her. Rhaldon glanced up from talking with the [Necromancers].
“Jelaqua’s off. Is this another Solstice event, Kevin? Octavia claims you can predict them, but I’m jumpy.”
Kevin massaged at his shoulder. She’d nearly dislocated it again.
“Dude…I think it is. An Ivirith event. Wait, that’s terrible. Whatever. We’d better put in a warning with Lyonette back at the inn. Did you see her face?”
“Um. It was normal?”
“Yeah. She never not grins or smiles. It’s freaking me the fuck out.”
Kevin hopped down to hurry after Jelaqua, then turned. He stared at the village, which was still growing, and scratched at his head.
“Y’know what’d be awesome? If we’re making cars, we should also do forklifts.”
“That’s just a bigger skeleton, Kevin.”
It was true; the [Necromancers] were all interested in Kevin and Rhaldon’s proposals, especially if it meant new, fun work, but the old granny did cock an eye at them.
“What’s this new stuff do that our undead can’t, lads? If it’s speed you want, well, they used to chase you down and bounty you for riding a carriage down the road with undead horses, but that Pisces fellow is bringing it back in style. Makes me wish I were young again! What’s this ‘car’ got that an undead horse doesn’t?”
Kevin scratched at his chin.
“The ability to hit a hundred miles per hour in, like, ten seconds? The ability to carry dozens and dozens of people at once?”
The old woman grinned and spat.
“Pshaw! A good [Necromancer] can do both! I’ve seen both. So let me ask you again, what’s the value?”
To that, Kevin just smiled as Rhaldon hesitated, and the [Mechanic] brushed at his hair.
“The value is that only a Level 60 [Necromancer] can probably make those undead. But we’re from Earth. We’ve got no levels. So we know how to build things better. The difference is that even a Level 20 [Necromancer] can build what we want.”
“With a lot of engineering and prototyping.”
Rhaldon muttered, but the villagers were eyeing each other. And the old woman was laughing.
“I wanted to make a Bone Giant before I died! Sign me up, boys! Show me a vision of death I ain’t ever dreamed of before!”
Her eyes glowed green as she leaned on a staff of bones which clicked, like a second spine rooting in the ground. Rhaldon swallowed, and Kevin grinned like a man watching something move into motion. He whispered.
“Okay. My turn, Erin. It’s a Kevin Hall moment. A Hallmark—fuck.”
He gave up and decided to run after Jelaqua.
 
——
 
It turned out the inn had tons of healing potions. Another world. Jelaqua didn’t even blink as Ser Dalimont handed her several.
“Of course for you we can procure some. Do you need six, perhaps? Between you and Maughin…”
“Forty, thanks.”
The Thronebearer hesitated.
“But you’re not adventuring…?”
The question dangled in the air, and Jelaqua absently opened her bag of holding.
“Nope. Forty will do. I might need sixty—how many do you have?”
“Quite a lot, but forty would be—”
“A great start. Thanks.”
She watched him pouring the healing potions into the bag of holding. It occurred to Ser Dalimont, of course, that he could ask questions or refuse. He peered at Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers of Izril, and filled her bag. She looked so absent.
Lost in thought.
 
——
 
“Excuse me, can I ask what the Health and Safety Act is?”
Jelaqua Ivirith stopped at a booth in Pallass’ heart on the 6th Floor, where the Assembly of Crafts and a number of helpful booths existed. Like a [Scribe], who looked up from where they normally took complaints or requests from citizens and forwarded them to the right senators.
“The, uh, Health and Safety Act, Miss?”
“Yeah, you know, just what it says.”
The Drake stared down at his ink-spattered hand and scrubbed absently at the dots.
“…Which one, Miss?”
Damn. That was the thing about gathering intelligence. Sometimes you didn’t know what kind of monster it was, and when you just said ‘magical bird’, the person with the bestiary eyed you as if you were stupid.
Still, Jelaqua Ivirith was a patient woman. She smiled.
“One that pertains to laws about housing for, uh, Scorchlings?”
“Miss, there are hundreds of Health and Safety Acts on the record.”
“Oh, I’m just searching for ones that are active and would prevent me from switching residences if I wanted to. Can you dig it up for me?”
The [Scribe] glanced at the queue behind Jelaqua. It wasn’t long, but he coughed.
“Miss—”
“Captain Ivirith, Gold-rank Adventurer.”
“Oh, um, Captain, is this a matter that pertains to adventuring? Because if it’s not…”
“No, it is.”
The [Scribe] hesitated.
“It—it is?”
Jelaqua smiled faintly, and she leaned on the counter.
“I’m Jelaqua Ivirith of the Halfseekers of Izril. We have Scorchlings on our team, now and then, and if there’s a Health and Safety Act that pertains to obtaining residency in Pallass, I have to know. Otherwise, I’ll just go ahead with what I was planning and let them know I was approved by Scribe…is that Jilins or Jillin?”
She made a show of reading his badge. The [Scribe] rolled back in his chair and gave her his best smile.
“Let me just get my supervisor, Captain Jelaqua. I’m sure we can look this up—”
 
——
 
Health and Safety Act KM 344. They’d copied out the entire thing for her, but the summary that Jelaqua had gotten from the helpful [Scribe] and his manager was more simple than the wordy little piece.
It was a provision about nine hundred years old—so barely any time at all—that restricted housing for ‘persons suffering from magical or medical ailment in nature that is disruptive to the Public Order or Decency’. With those two latter terms capitalized.
The long and short of it was that without a full form approved by the district [Senator] of your area, you were not allowed to just live in any residence—and the same went for anyone who wanted to rent to you.
Getting said form filled out was not easy either. The two Drakes had no idea how you’d actually go about submitting it, but they did know the intake fee and wait times for such things to get past a [Senator]’s busy desk.
Well, that answered her questions. It was also, incidentally, a stupid law. Just the kind of thing the Assembly of Crafts might pass to rid certain districts of undesirable sights…Jelaqua was reading up on the law in a history book from the library.
Oh, it was passed in a flurry of laws that all but prohibited Scorchlings from military service? When, in fact, there were laws six thousand years on the book that almost did the opposite and had granted Sootling-only zones on the 5th Floor that had been erased as part of the legislation nine hundred years ago.
But six thousand years ago…that was Creler Wars legislation. Stamped in blood.
“Huh. Someone back then understood what Sootlings are.”
Jelaqua closed the book she was reading. She had arrived at her destination anyways.
Just as she’d thought, the Uplifting Wings orphanage was a hangout spot for older ‘graduates’. The moment she walked into the courtyard, Jelaqua was challenged—a good sign. But the staff member recognized her.
“Oh, Captain Ivirith! Lady Melika would love to speak to you—I, ah, would you wait in her office?”
They looked rather flustered, and Jelaqua peered at the group of young people who were all staring at her like she had horns growing out of her head. She waved at Ophala and got one back—the Drake girl she was peering at was trying to pretend she wasn’t there.
“Sure thing. Hey, Anama, good to see you’re alive! Keeping out of trouble? No fights?”
The girl jumped as Jelaqua shouted, and the staff member tried to rush her inside.
“Captain, if you’ll just come this way…”
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing flew down in a flurry and appeared slightly off-kilter after last night. She might have cured the hangover, but the wild night remained—and she hadn’t even seen the Raskghar.
“Captain Ivirith, I’m so glad to see you’re well. I am very glad you and General Shirka were there, and that you were, um—uh—discreet? Thank you for not involving the Watch, and I did enjoy our talks.”
“Captain Ivirith? What are we, strangers, Melika? I was just coming by to ask some questions, you know? I was thinking after our talk, and I’d like to know some things.”
The Garuda nodded, trying to smile, but she was fiddling with a quill. Then she burst out with it.
“Uh—Captain Ivirith, I’d be delighted to answer questions! However, just so we are clear, ahem, very clear…I must formally withdraw my standing invitation to you to come as a guest to the orphanage. I am very, very sorry for what happened last night. Rest assured, it will not happen again! And I hope you will let the matter rest? Especially regarding Anama?”
She gave Jelaqua a pleading expression. The Selphid was smiling, not with her infectious grin, but a calmer smile, almost absent.
“She came and told you about my chat, huh? Her gang would have done something to her if I hadn’t stepped in. Chopped her up, maybe. There used to be [Alchemists] that took Oldblood Drake organs. They are reagents.”
“T-they are? I’ve never heard of that. How horrific!”
Melika went pale. Jelaqua shrugged, gazing out the window.
“They all vanished about twelve years back. At least, in Izril. Anama looks colder now. Though she’s still picking fights.”
The Drake girl was pushing around some of the younger Scorchlings, clearly mad—until she glanced up, saw Jelaqua, and flinched. Melika took a breath.
“Captain, can I answer your pressing questions? Then I’d be delighted to talk later? I think everything has been settled and there’s no need to go any further, grateful and sorry as we all are. Please?”
She gave the Selphid another pleading look. Jelaqua swivelled her attention to Melika.
“I can do that. I only came to get intelligence. Ophala’s the good girl around here, right? Helps out?”
“Ophala? Yes, of course! She’s wonderful, and she even gives some coin back to the orphanage and the others, though I keep telling her to save it for herself.”
“Aha, she runs with…Merry and Consillir, right?”
“That’s right. They’re the best of friends. Why are you asking…?”
The Selphid stared at the ceiling.
“Hmm. I can’t tell what kind of gang they’re part of. Which is weird. I’d assume they’d have some kind of sign, but normally it’s a tattoo or even a brand. Might be where I can’t see it. Do you know which one?”
“Captain Ivirith! Jelaqua! Ophala, in a gang? She’s a brilliant young [Tailor]!”
Melika was astonished, then outraged! She stood up, feathers ruffling, and Jelaqua sniffed.
“Dyes. And scars.”
“What?”
“Tanning dye smells strong. Even if it was just leatherworking, you’d expect someone without feathers to have needle scars on their hands. Even the best [Tailors] get them as they level. Nevermind that, it was sort of an aside. Who does your potions? You know, the stuff that mitigates all the Sootlings’ conditions?”
The Garuda woman was having trouble following the thread of Jelaqua’s questions, but that was okay, Jelaqua was doing just fine. She clacked her beak open and closed a few times as she sat back down.
“I don’t know where you got that misapprehension around Ophala, but I assure you, she’s never had a single incident with the Watch! It’s a record at the orphanage!”
“Not once, not ever? People love calling the Watch on anyone who looks wrong. How’d she dodge that all her life?”
Melika frowned and began to appear uncertain, but Jelaqua pressed her.
“Who does your potions?”
“This is confidential—oh, fine! Alchemist Xif provides the most important potions. Now and then, Alchemist Saliss comes by to provide the most elusive tonics. He is a very generous donor, though his cousin, Onieva, drops everything off. We can’t have nudity here! Aside from that, we mostly purchase what we need, though it is difficult…there are precious few specialists in Oldblood conditions, even in Pallass! We had a dedicated expert, but he passed away last year.”
“Really? Who?”
Melika rubbed at one eye as she glanced at Jelaqua suspiciously.
“Mage Isceil from Wistram Academy. He came through one of Pallass’ orphanages—so did General Shirka, come to that. Which is private, and I shouldn’t be telling you—! Why do you want to know, Jelaqua?”
Isceil. Where did she know that name? Jelaqua closed her eyes, and it came to her. Curry to the face. Ah, of course.
Damn, it was a small world after all. She nodded to herself.
“And he was the best and only Oldblood specialist in Pallass?”
“Fissival is where he lived, but he always came through here on his way south. And yes, he was one of the only ones who isn’t training young nobility in how to use their Dragonbreath and who doesn’t charge extortionate fees! Amplifying Dragonbreath or flight time is the focus, not mitigation.”
She stopped and visibly had to catch herself. This entire time, Melika had been avoiding looking at Jelaqua. She ground her beak together unhappily, then looked directly at the Selphid.
“Jelaqua, please, you’re putting me in a hard situation. I must formally ask you to stay away from Uplifting Wings and the children. I appreciate what you did for the children, but—this was not the way to handle it.”
No response. Melika clenched one claw around a quill and then went on abruptly.
“And—I have to believe you knew about that ambush last night! At the time, I was unsure how it happened, but in hindsight, it seems obvious you were prepared. Couldn’t you have called the Watch or simply…avoided them? This could all have been smoothed over! Instead, you put half a dozen children in the [Healer]’s! I know what Anama did, but did you have to threaten her?”
Jelaqua had been staring at the ceiling while Melika grew angrier and angrier. She blinked, then looked Melika in the eyes.
“I didn’t threaten her.”
“You didn’t? But she said—”
“I told her if she had tried to mug you I’d have put her on the floor. Oh, and not to badmouth my team.”
“Captain Ivirith, that’s a threat! You fought a gang! There were a dozen ways to avoid it coming to the worst outcome and it seems to me you ignored them all!”
Now Melika was angry. She half-rose, and Jelaqua sat up a bit. She fixed Melika with a stern look of her own.
“I didn’t threaten Anama, Melika. Threats never work. ‘Specially not on kids. Same with running them off or even having the Watch arrest them. They were a gang ready to beat me down and mug me on Anama’s say-so. Or you. Did Anama even tell you what I saved her from? She might not know—but I do. Should I let them run around in their little fantasy, thinking they can jump a Gold-ranker, or just let a gang keep operating?”
Melika hesitated, suddenly on the back-wing and not sure how that had happened.
“No, but the Watch—”
“The Watch is a wonderful tool in some cities. I don’t trust ‘em. Your kid was making stupid mistakes. You said so last night.”
“So the answer is violence?”
Melika’s voice rose, and Jelaqua raised her brows as the door opened and the assistant looked in uncertainly. The Garuda blushed, but Jelaqua just stood up.
“Talking didn’t seem to work for however many years you’ve tried it. Just an observation. Right, thanks for the info. Back to Liscor. Montressa.”
She saluted Melika with two fingers. The Garuda lady waited for an explanation, her mouth open. Jelaqua Ivirith just strode out the door. Melika nearly shouted at her back. Then she turned to her assistant as he stared at her.
“Who’s Montressa?”
 
——
 
It was very simple, really. All she was doing was gathering the bits and pieces she hadn’t picked up on. Seeing how the terrain lay. It wasn’t anything big. She promised.
“I don’t have a lot of time, and I’m not overcommitting. I’m just asking normal questions. You know? It’s not that hard, and it’s no time out of my day. Really, it’s about supply and demand. Turns out the inn has lots of healing potions. That’s always useful. And why not ask about a specialist, you know?”
Jelaqua explained herself to Valeterisa and Montressa. The two were staring at each other over a three-dimensional magical diagram of an academy in their rooms. After a moment, Valeterisa whispered.
“Apprentice, did I miss the opening to this conversation?”
“No, Master.”
“Ah, good. I worried I had erased those memories by accident.”
Then the Archmage of Izril put on her best customer-smile for Jelaqua.
“Hello, Miss Ivirith, I am a very busy Archmage of Izril who is normally not disturbed by anyone due to my rank. I am hard at work on Miss Lyonette’s detoxification spells and containment ones, so if this is about that…”
“Isceil.”
Montressa blinked as Jelaqua spoke the Drake’s name. The Selphid put her hands in her pockets and gazed at Montressa.
“Isceil, right? D’you know if he left any of his potions or recipes for dealing with Oldblood ailments? Scorchlings specifically, but there’s all kinds. Anything would do.”
The name kicked Montressa like one of Rhaldon’s horses. She sat down.
“Isceil? Why are you…”
“There’s some Scorchlings at the orphanage where he used to go to volunteer. Without him, I think they’re not as well-supplied. Even Xif and Saliss wouldn’t necessarily be brewing specialist medicine for them.”
Both Valeterisa and Montressa knew what Scorchlings were, which spoke to their experience both in Drake society and as [Mages]. Valeterisa covered her mouth with a hand.
“Oh. I anticipate something cripplingly sad. Just like Relc said, you can see it. Lalalalalala—apprentice, I leave this to you. I shall be back in fifteen minutes. Lalalalalala—”
She flew out a window, which you had to admire. Valeterisa was quickly becoming a regular of the inn. Jelaqua nodded to her with a smile.
“Okay, how about it?”
Montressa was less composed. She wiped at her eyes.
“I’m—oh, that’s painful. Maybe I need Mrsha’s [Healer] they’re looking for too. Potions? His supplies? We gave all that to his family, Jelaqua. I’m sorry. I didn’t keep his textbooks, and all his spells for Oldblood phenomena would be somewhere in Fissival. Why? Is someone badly sick?”
She seemed worried, then relieved as Jelaqua shook her head.
“Nah, just asking if there was some convenient medicine or…something. It’s worth a shot in Erin’s inn, right? Damn. Valeterisa wouldn’t know about some way to cure Scorchling afflictions, would she?”
The [Apprentice] cast around.
“I could ask. [Locate Master]—Master, come inside! Jelaqua has a question, and you’re getting wet!”
She cracked open the window, and Valeterisa ducked down from where she was hovering just under the window’s ledge. When the Archmage came inside, she confirmed that no, she had no special cure.
“Even [Restoration] is, um, unfeasible. Very ironically and sadly given the plans for Tenbault—I mean, um…not-Tenbault. I did research the ailments when I was in Fissival, but they are all specialized and unique. No common magical cause or root method of curation.”
Jelaqua smiled and came out of her focused state for a second.
“What led you to study Scorchling maladies?”
The Archmage of Izril glanced around and hesitated.
“I was, um, dating.”
“Ah.”
Valeterisa had the same attitude a lot of Drakes raised in Drake society did—which was that Scorchlings were Drakes hit with terrible luck. Instead of the positives, you got the negatives, and it was uncomfortable, not something you talked about. Hopefully not something you had to see. Reactions ranged from sympathy to disgust. Even in the ‘best’ cases, the people who saw Scorchlings were surprised and dismayed by the poor individuals.
And that, of course…hurt. Jelaqua Ivirith pushed herself up with a sigh.
“Thank you for your time, you two. I guess that you can’t ask for pure miracles. And you two are the best.”
Montressa and Valeterisa glanced at each other, and both were thinking two names: Demsleth and Taletevirion. Montressa coughed into her fist.
“If, uh, if you wait, we could see about more magical consultation, Jelaqua?”
The Selphid waved it off.
“No, no. I’m searching for something like what Kevin’s doing. Mass cures, not miracles for one. Miracles run out real fast, see? Healing potions used to be as many as you could buy. I know which one I’d trust.”
She produced a little vial glowing bright red and twirled it on a finger. The Selphid heaved a sigh.
“I was just checking, because you know, Solsticisms. It’s fine, thanks. There’s only one way I know of to treat Sootlings, and it works! Just takes longer than magic.”
She twiddled her fingers, and the two [Mages] nodded. Valeterisa put a finger to her temple with a frown, but Jelaqua was striding off in moments. Now, where was the best place…? They could do it wherever, but hadn’t Grimalkin said he had something new? That’d work!
“What do you think that was about, Master? Jelaqua never acts like that normally.”
Montressa frowned at Jelaqua’s back. Her instincts as a Secret Broker were tingling. Archmage Valeterisa’s eyes narrowed.
“I do not know. There is no treatment for Scorchling Syndrome. Not one in modern history and certainly not broadly applicable across the condition. Apprentice! Investigate!”
She clapped her hands. Montressa eyed her. After a moment, Valeterisa coughed.
“Please?”
 
——
 
The Last Light of Baleros! Jelaqua was walking down from the 8th Floor when she snapped her fingers. That was a great option!
But she doubted that the Last Light knew Drakes if she was based in Baleros, and besides, Jelaqua could always write a letter. She’d do it tonight. She was almost down to the 4th Floor when she slapped her forehead.
“I’ll forget my own head next. Apartment!”
 
——
 
Landlord Inmal’s apartment was not hard to find. Jelaqua had no idea where it was, and they didn’t exactly write their names on the buildings—in most cases—but the Landlord’s Guild in Pallass had a directory.
“Oh, you don’t want to live there, Miss!”
The horrified [Receptionist] assured Jelaqua. They were standing in the bare-bones entry section where people could queue up to issue complaints or find housing—past the [Receptionists] working the desks, there was a guard and the guild proper. Jelaqua could just see a carpet down a posh corridor into a lounge as she stepped back.
“Don’t worry, I’m just checking it out. Bad neighborhood?”
The Gnoll woman looked around and then whispered.
“No, not the worst, but—it’s more of the folk living there? I doubt you could pay the same price, either! I could find you far better accommodations for cheaper.”
Ah, that made sense on two levels. Jelaqua waved at the dismayed woman and walked off.
 
——
 
Ironically, the Dullahans’ apartment block was on the very same floor that Scorchlings had once lost their designated zones for. 5th Floor—just not in the center, but on the very ‘edges’ near the place where Pallass’ walls rose. Corner-sections were never well-liked because they were the most enclosed and cramped-feeling. Also, no elevators ran in these areas, just staircases, so traffic was harder. They were subsequently the lowest-income.
Landlord Inmal’s place wasn’t a dump. There were two narrow concrete blocks of small apartments overlooking an entry courtyard barred by a simple fence—easily jumpable, and Jelaqua noticed the lock was a plain padlock she could snap with two fingers.
But there was fresher paint on the building, someone had polished the number—295 Brasswing Way—and Jelaqua suspected Melika and her charity ensured there were things like the hedges that grew along one wall. But the stairs leading up to the individual units had cracks in them that were probably foundation-deep, and the entire place had the air of somewhere that wasn’t kept up, just maintained until it could no longer be inhabited.
Liscor had had places like that too. Much of it was being reconstructed, but it was familiar to Jelaqua; a lot of her team had lived in places like this. Visiting family for good—or the final bad news—conjured to mind this sort of spot.
The well in the central courtyard was a hand-pump well, which spoke to Pallass’ nature as City of Inventions. But the water didn’t run. One sniff as she pried open the top of the rusted well with a squeal of disused metal made Jelaqua grimace.
“Mold. Could be fine…”
She took an experimental nibble, and her Selphid body analyzed it.
“Well, it’s not going to kill you, but it’s not what I’d let grow. Probably just as well the tap’s dry.”
Without it, the kids would have to go a lot further for water for their cooking and washwater—and that was a lot worse than private plumbing, which you’d get in more modern buildings. Jelaqua saw a few of the wooden shutters open and faces peek down at her. She waved, and they closed—yep.
Kids, mostly. Twenties or younger. She bet that if you got older you might find a place to settle down and move out or move to another city, another floor.
If you made it.
No guesses where Anama lived; the shutters were scorched, and Jelaqua bet that if there were fire alarm spells, they had to be disabled. Captain Zevara was a functional Oldblood, for all of her breathing problems and choking on her own breath. Scorchlings with heat breath problems sometimes just breathed smoke nonstop.
None of this depressed Jelaqua unduly or surprised her. She’d seen worse. Quite a lot worse. She strolled up to one of the windows and knocked.
“Heya, Jelaqua Ivirith, Gold-rank Captain. I know Melika.”
“Y-you do? No one here owes money!”
A nervous voice from within. Jelaqua smiled at the shutters.
“Nah, I’m not that sort. Do you get any [Debt Collectors] coming by? Gangs? Fellows or gals who’re creeping, watching, anything of that sort?”
There was a silence from within. Then the voice grew suspicious.
“Are you the Watch?”
“Who, me? I can’t even watch the scrying orb. I’m asking on behalf of a friend.”
“Which friend?”
“Me.”
The silence grew more confused as the person within weighed the odds of answering truthfully with the consequences before replying.
“The only gang that comes around here is Anama’s. Sometimes we get…people, but it’s fine. Safe. Please, go away? This is a private residence.”
Jelaqua slapped the shutters cheerfully, and someone gasped.
“Not so long as that fence is busted. Get many [Thieves]?”
“Who’s got anything to steal?”
The voice followed her as she walked off. Jelaqua nodded to herself.
“Right then. I think I have my plan of action. First stop? Where would I be if I was some Drake who’d just lost her gang and needed a place to hide out from the big, scary Selphid?”
She tilted her head.
 
——
 
Uplifting Wings orphanage went quiet when Jelaqua Ivirith appeared this time. A member of staff started.
“Captain, I’m so sorry, but Melika isn’t here right now. We’re going to have to ask you to leave—most of the children are at school, and we’re cleaning.”
Jelaqua cheerfully gave the Drake a thumbs-up.
“Oh, no problem! I’m just here to get one of your kids. The ones with lots of free time, including Miss Ophala. Hey! How’s the tailoring going?”
The Garuda jumped, and the small group hanging around the courtyard gave Jelaqua that uncertain stare. It intensified as she crossed onto the grass—it was the stare of someone reminding you that you were doing something socially unacceptable if not, possibly, illegal.
Gold-rank Adventurers got [Immunity: Social Awkwardness] as a default. Or at least [Greater Resistance]. Jelaqua saw the young Garuda jump and wave a gloved hand at her.
“Um, hello, Miss Ivirith—I was just—I think you’re not supposed to be here?”
Jelaqua seized her hand and admired the gloves.
“Lovely stitching on these! Nevermind, I take it back; that’s professional gear right there.”
She winked at the Garuda, whose face went from uncertainty to a mask, then let go. Jelaqua reached out and put her arm around someone.
“And here’s the girl I needed to see. Anama!”
To her credit, the Drake didn’t flinch or cry out when Jelaqua nabbed her. Bravery was something that grew in the light and with other people.
“I’m not scared of you! I haven’t done anything—get off!”
She tried to push Jelaqua’s arms away, and the Selphid walked her towards the gates.
“Miss Ivirith, I’m going to have to call our security—”
She ignored the Drake lady.
“None of the Flameblades give you grief? No threats, no bad looks?”
Everyone listened as Anama hesitated.
“N-no! I don’t even know where they are, and I didn’t search for them, alright? Now leave me alone, please?”
Her voice cracked on that note, and Jelaqua felt at her forehead. Anama tried to bite her hand, but the Selphid just yanked it back.
“You’re a lot cooler. Good.”
“I have icerune cloth, idiot. Let go. Hey, help—”
“Icepacks are only local for burns. You took a bath or you’d be too hot. Shame you don’t have one in your apartment.”
“I’ve got everything I need! Shower’n all! Where are you trying to take me? I’ll yell for the Watch! You can’t prove I did anything to you!”
Jelaqua Ivirith grinned at Anama as she halted.
“I’m not kidnapping you! I’m just coming by to work on your Oldblood heat problems. I know Melika’s worried, but I swear on my team, dead and alive—it’s just to make you stop heating up so much.”
Hope was a pernicious thing. As nervous as Anama was, and all the staff were with their concerns, when Jelaqua said that, Ophala, Merry, Consillir, and every young person and kid in earshot turned. Especially the other Scorchlings.
“Y-you what?”
Anama’s eyes widened, and Jelaqua gestured to herself. She smiled, and that faint glow of glory shone in her orange eyes. She spoke slowly.
“I am Captain of the Halfseekers of Izril. I bet Melika never knew, but we’ve had seven Scorchlings in our team. Half died fighting monsters. The other half? Retired. Three are still alive, and all of my teammates were over thirty years old. Achevv, he’d be pushing fifty now. Dead gods!”
She rolled her eyes, sighing. Anama was gazing at her, and Jelaqua knew she understood the numbers. Scorchlings were lucky to hit thirty years old…
The Selphid spoke nothing but the truth.
“We have a secret way to mitigate most Scorchling problems. Heck, even some other conditions. I guarantee it works. Might take me a few tries, but I’m offering it since I’ve got nothing but free time in my retirement. Want to try? You can always back out.”
She rested a hand on the girl’s shoulder, which was feverish in any normal person. Anama licked her lips and hesitated. The staff were whispering, and one was probably already sending a Street Runner to Melika, but the kids gazed at Jelaqua, hoping for a miracle.
She didn’t have one. But she did have a treatment. After a moment, Anama snarled.
“If this is a trick, I’ll burn you like—like—!”
“Like a Scorchling. C’mon, kid. I know just the place.”
 
——
 
Grimalkin’s Gymnasium actually had a signboard now. Well, it was technically Magus Grimalkin’s Training Gymnasium, but no one was calling it that.
A huge workout area and what looked like a pool was being built, and Jelaqua read a flyer that said House Ulta was making the exact same thing. Why a pool?
Well, why a boxing ring? She’d seen plenty of places where [Fistfighters] hung out, little sacred circles of rope where blood and guts were put on the line, but this had much thicker ropes and a padded mat.
She supposed to stop you from getting hurt. And the padded gloves were nice. Yeah, she could see the value.
“Why’re we here? We’re not allowed in here!”
Most people weren’t, but Jelaqua Ivirith knew Grimalkin, and the [Apprentice] at the door waved her in without asking for a ‘pass’. Dead gods, everything was changing too fast.
Jelaqua was an old creature. She glanced around as she saw the kids following her and getting stopped by the surprised [Apprentice].
“They’re with me. They can watch if they want to. This is a good spot. We need somewhere semi-private. And Grimalkin’s got good equipment and space.”
Anama was frowning at the Selphid.
“You’re teaching me an exercise? What, breathing? I know how to do that! I’ve had everyone from [Oldblood Trainers] to some old man come in and lecture us about breathing.”
Jelaqua shook her head.
“Breathing won’t help. Especially not you. Your problem is your body’s heat. You can’t regulate it; I suppose you could breathe the heat out or exhale enough Dragonbreath to stop generating it, but I don’t know how to teach that.”
“That’s what he said. But I can’t breathe like that.”
The young Scorchling woman muttered. She gazed around as Jelaqua glanced at the boxing ring. She supposed Grimalkin was still teaching how it worked; without him, it was lying empty, though she saw plenty of red padded gloves and even headgear and padding hanging up on fresh racks.
“The ring will do. C’mon up. I’ll use the gloves; you don’t need ‘em. Headgear might be nice.”
The girl was getting more suspicious by the second, but she had come this far, and sunk cost was another thing that murdered adventurers along with hope. She snatched a headpiece for Drakes and hesitated before putting it on.
“I’ll just burn it up. You paying for that?”
“It’s all enchanted against heat, but—do you know what you’re doing, Adventurer Ivirith? Magus Grimalkin did say he had an invitation to you, but he’ll be back in fifteen minutes…”
The [Apprentice] at the desk was wavering, and Jelaqua winked at him.
“Don’t worry, I have no idea how this works, but I know what I’m doing.”
“Er, that’s not reassuring—”
She was already hopping into the ring, and Anama climbed up. She looked silly in her headgear, and a few titters from the younger people made her flush.
“Either tell me what I’m learning or stop yanking me around! I’m going home if this doesn’t pay off!”
Jelaqua turned to face her, mashing her fists into her gloves. They really were nice. The Selphid smiled at Anama.
“Don’t worry, it’ll work. Might take a few tries, but I reckon you’ve only got the patience for the one. Just one, no, two questions and we’ll get started. Firstly, what’s your highest-level combat class? My guess is…[Ganger]. [Thug]? [Fighter]? You’re not over Level 10, I know that for a fact.”
The young woman turned red.
“Why d’you care?”
“I’ve got to know. Come on, which is it?”
The Gold-rank adventurer was pressing down on Anama now. She wasn’t that tall in her Human body, but she seemed to fill the ring however big it was. The Drake was heating up in the headgear, and she gasped a reply. If this helped…
“[T-Thug]. Level 6, alright? It’s not serious. You’re allowed to have that class, and it’s not a crime!”
Jelaqua Ivirith laughed softly.
“Yeah, I’ve heard that one before. The Watch still puts you on a list, you know.”
“They do? Well, what’s yours?”
The Selphid smiled.
“[Steelforged Whirlwind], Level 38. I know, I know. Pretty low. I’m a Level 13 [Loving Wife], though. Turns out protecting your man gets you levels.”
Anama’s jaw dropped. Jelaqua’s lesser class was double hers, and it didn’t surprise Jelaqua.
The only way you get classes normally is either by profession or hobby. A kid like her has trouble finding any job. But even in a gang, she can’t level hard. She’ll injure herself in a fight, and she’s vulnerable—and Scorchlings heal slower because they’re already fighting their bodies.
“You’re probably a higher-level [Survivor], though. Lower than 20, probably. And if you have a class like [Breather], or what was Halassia’s…? [Spewer]? It’s not high.”
She was guessing all three of Anama’s classes. The Drake was glaring now.
“Well, if you’re so smart, fix it! Fix me! C’mon!”
“Okay, I’ll try. Last question—I know you overheat and you’re getting heat sores. You don’t have fragile bones, do you? My guess is not, but I need to check. Problems breathing when you choke on smoke—that’s fine. Any organ problems? Aside from just your stomach or vitals overloading and malfunctioning.”
Anama shook her head, eyes now locked on Jelaqua as the Selphid hopped up and down.
“No. What’re you…what am I doing? Stretching? Learning a move or something?”
The Selphid smiled as she mashed the gloves together, and it made a great slamming sound.
“Nope! Here’s the plan. I hit you as hard as I can. There’s no way out of the ring except through me. Land a punch and you get to go. But I am going to hit you like good old Mort. Unless you fight. C’mon, [Thug].”
She beckoned, and Anama’s eyes went wide. That sneaking suspicion she’d had? The tiny little voice that said, ‘maybe this is a trap to get back at you?’ It was obviously a lie because they were in public and Melika would call the Watch and she could have done it yesterday…
Turns out that voice was right. She smiled, trying to deny it, and backed up.
“That’s not funny. Back off! We’ve got witness—”
She went for the ropes, and Jelaqua blurred around her. Anama recoiled.
“Stop it! I said I’m s—”
Jelaqua didn’t hear the rest. She swung a fist, hard as she could, and knew she’d chosen the good gloves, the ones with the most softness and magic in them.
She figured she broke two of the girl’s ribs.
Anama folded up with a cry, and there was an exclamation of horror from the watchers. But she didn’t fully fall; Jelaqua was holding her up.
“Remember, you’ve got to hit me.”
Possibly the words only reached Anama after the punches landed. Jelaqua leapt back from the cross of punches and circled. She lunged in, and Anama ducked, face white. She screeched as her broken ribs struggled with her burnt skin.
“Stop! Help, help, she’s crazy!”
“C’mon, kid. Throw a punch.”
Punching a leg didn’t usually hurt given how thick the leg bone was and the odd angle, but Jelaqua was a Level 38 [Warrior] in a Selphid’s body. Anama stumbled, and then she did take a wild swing at Jelaqua.
“I d—”
The Selphid countered, moved behind Anama, and hit her in the back. The Drake girl turned, and her arm locked with Jelaqua’s as both punched—the Selphid’s arm swept hers back, and she hit the mat. Anama lay there, making a faint sound, and Jelaqua thought she’d broken her tail landing on it.
“Potion.”
She poured one over Anama. It showered onto the Drake and mat as someone shouted.
“Adventurer Ivirith, stop! What are you—”
The [Apprentice] stared at the costly potion being used on Anama. Even for broken bones—! Anama gasped as her ribs snapped back into place. She hadn’t ever been hurt that bad before—at least, not in a fight. She began to sit up and flinched.
“You’ve got five seconds before I hit you when you’re down. And then you’ll bounce. C’mon, I have a lot of potions, and you don’t have all day. Four, three…”
She rose and screamed and tried to swing at Jelaqua. The Selphid’s hands blurred, and the girl dropped. Now, someone was shouting at her to stop.
“Captain, don’t hit her! She’s sorry!”
Ophala was wide-eyed as she cupped her hands to her beak. Some of the other young folk were shouting too—some for the Watch. Jelaqua turned; the [Apprentice] was getting into the ring.
“This is untoward. I’m putting a stop to—”
Her punch popped the Drake off the ring and onto the floor. He rolled as he fell and didn’t crack his tail, a sign he was Grimalkin’s apprentice. Jelaqua turned.
“Told you. C’mon. Swing faster.”
Anama was drooling a bit of blood, and she didn’t say anything this time. A baseline instinct had kicked in where your mouth shut up and you moved to survive because you knew there was no talking your way out of this.
It was the correct instinct, but it was still too slow. Jelaqua’s fists were a blur as she crossed the ring. This time, Anama’s body hit the ropes, and the [Apprentice] who’d thought he just had boring gymnasium desk duty saw the Selphid perform the first off-the-ropes punch in the world’s history as Anama came back towards him.
He knew fighting. She was not pulling her punches like the Sinew Magus did. She wasn’t going for a vital where she could kill the girl, and she poured another potion as the Scorchling sagged, but this—
This time, the [Apprentice] tried a spell and drew his wand as he empowered his legs to jump into the ring. Jelaqua kicked him so fast he didn’t see it coming. When he aimed a wand at her, she hit him with an empty potion vial so hard his head snapped back into the floor.
The [Apprentice] made a judgement call. He whirled and ran, shouting for the Sinew Magus and his peers. It wasn’t far to get them. It took only four minutes, in fact, for Grimalkin to emerge from his mansion where he and Lady Pryde had been busy planning gymnasiums.
Four minutes was a long time.
 
——
 
When Magus Grimalkin burst into the gymnasium in only his robes, he saw nearly a dozen of his apprentices trying to hold Jelaqua Ivirith back. Far more on the floor or trying to climb into the ring, but the Selphid had already halted.
“Good punch, kid.”
A Drake girl dropped onto the mat. Not slumped, not collapsed. Just dropped. Grimalkin pointed.
“[Air Cushion]—”
Jelaqua caught Anama’s head and shook off her other boxing glove. It was partly exploded from the force. Grimalkin noted it as he saw a larger amount of visitors than normal. Young people—Scorchlings? He blinked at Ophala and her friends and several members of staff—and a [Guardswoman] from Pallass’ Watch.
“Ivirith! What—”
She waved at him and knelt.
“Hmm. She’s out. Won’t be long now. I think that was four levels. Hey, Grimalkin, sorry I had to rough up your apprentices.”
He stared at the panting apprentices. This was a new group of his students, so they weren’t as strong as Ferkr or his graduates, but they’d built plenty of muscle under his new programs—from their dazed expressions, she’d kept moving with all their weight and strength trying to hold her.
I must show them what high-level means. Not just strength, but this.
The Sinew Magus had lesser instincts, ones that did not hesitate to tell him to put her in a binding spell or shout or demand answers. His analytical mind told him he had the answers. So he observed.
He noted Anama’s condition, the startlement of the others, Jelaqua Ivirith’s empty vials and the stains on the mat. The Selphid herself and her team…and his mind snapped to a conclusion like it had regarding Erin Solstice’s nature.
This time, he hoped he was right.
“Counterlevelling? There must be a more merciful way to do it.”
The horrified staff and Melika herself, who’d burst into the gymnasium, pale-faced, turned. His apprentices glanced up, and Jelaqua Ivirith smiled. A dead woman smiling at him with that strange being inside who knew more of the body than he did.
“Doesn’t work as well if they know what’s coming. It barely works if I avoid hitting them hard as I can. But you can pee hard enough to level under Level 10. I saw it happen once.”
“That’s most likely apocryphal and down to some other event.”
“Nope. Kidney stone. I’ll tell you the full story sometime.”
“Ah, I withdraw my objections. Pryde, it’s not what it seems. No emergency, well, at least none that requires physical intervention.”
Grimalkin turned as a more-dressed [Lady] came striding into the gymnasium. Lady Pryde had her bag on her head and her tracksuit for decency’s sake; Grimalkin swished his bathrobe around himself more for the same. She sounded disappointed as she sighed.
“So Captain Ivirith isn’t beating a teenage girl to death with her bare hands?”
“No, she is. Just in service of counterlevelling.”
“Oh, excellent. My father used to do that with my brothers. He never could do it with me.”
It was funny how the three of them spoke. They were not ignorant to the voices around them, demanding clarification, asking what that meant, telling Jelaqua she was under arrest and to step away from the girl—but the three spoke in a world of their own.
As if they were the only ones that mattered, which was not Magus Grimalkin’s opinion at all. It was just that they understood this. Communication was only the most efficient between them, a regrettable truth.
Jelaqua faced down her audience without regret, only a guilt he could see in her eyes and smile. Hitting a girl with Sootling Syndrome hard enough to counterlevel her and need six potions…
That was a Gold-rank adventurer for you. He murmured.
“Was it necessary? You could surely effect the same with a week’s training.”
“Maybe, but she’s a kid. Plus, she’s a [Thug]. I doubt I could motivate her to give me a glass of water. I’m surprised you don’t do the same, Grimalkin. This is the most efficient thing, and there is only one cure for being a Sootling in this world. It’s crazy, but here it is.”
A [Mage] in the crowd with red hair went ‘oh’ and began to write a report for her master. Grimalkin exhaled. He agreed, actually. This was the most efficient; it was just that he’d calculated the trauma and culture it brought on would lead to deaths and injury to an extent he could not rationalize mass-producing. Plus, without healing potions or similar aids, it was highly infeasible. But the truth was the truth.
“Levels.”
 
——
 
On Earth, Jelaqua wondered what you would do. She knew the things she would do, but one of the keys, the foundation of her world, was levels.
Levels, the reward for suffering or hard work. Without them…would people try as hard? They were the ultimate balancer, but they did not bring equality to people. A Scorchling lived a far harder life than Melika, or even Jelaqua, but they didn’t hit Level 30 automatically or even Level 20. Or even Level 10, sometimes.
Jelaqua had no idea how the calculation worked. But she did know this. If someone stood up and threw hands with a Level 38 [Warrior] who was coming at them with all the force she had—and they threw a punch with all the desperation they had left—that was worth at least two levels unless they were over Level 20.
Try. She sat there as Grimalkin gave a more lengthy explanation to his audience, and Melika flapped into the ring. She shielded Anama from Jelaqua as the Selphid gently checked the girl’s vitals.
“She’s healed.”
“Stay away from her, Jelaqua! Officer, I’m filing a complaint! Officer—”
The [Guardswoman] gazed at Jelaqua. What was she going to do, move the Selphid? An entire class of students hadn’t been able to keep hold of her. And Jelaqua was waiting, waiting…
Now.
When Anama gasped and sat up, a plume of heat and sparks shooting from her mouth, the Selphid saw it. Barely, a faint steadiness to her movements, less of a flinch from her own heat—
Level 10 was not very high, but for a [Thug] class, and whatever levels she’d gotten in [Survivor], it was still a capstone.
Funny thing about levels when it came to Sootlings. They didn’t come for free or even easily. But when you levelled as someone who needed something, like the ability to survive your own heat, your own body—the voice always gave you what you needed.
If you hit a capstone. Not everything; it was never perfect, but Jelaqua nodded.
“[Lesser Fire Resistance]. Or was it…[Body: Regulate Temperature]?”
Melika turned to her, and Anama felt at herself. She flinched away from Jelaqua, then gasped.
“[Fireproof Scales]. You—you—”
“Oooh. Nice. It won’t keep you from baking, but you’ll get a new coat of ‘em. Congrats! You’ve got scales now! Want a potion?”
Then again, it had probably regrown her scales decently under the ash; once she washed, she’d keep her scales. Or maybe they’d have to properly regrow now that they wouldn’t turn to ash? Jelaqua was interested.
“Stay back! Magus, help me! She’s assaulted one of my wards—my charity, even if she is an adult—Captain, you’ve gone far too far!”
Jelaqua blinked and remembered Melika was there. Aw, darn. She was so upset. The Selphid wondered if she’d lost a friend forever. She stretched.
“I’ve gone far enough with Anama. Hitting Level 20 is going to be harder, kid. Might have to do [Survivor] there, but it’s tricky. Hey, anyone else?”
She turned to her audience, especially the Sootlings, who blinked at her as the Selphid gestured around.
“C’mon. If you’re over 15, hop in this ring and it’ll hurt. More than anything you’ve ever felt, but it works. Don’t worry about our audience. They can’t stop me.”
She smiled gently at them but wasn’t surprised when none of them ran forwards. They had to see Anama getting better—and Melika was shouting at them to get away.
The [Socialite] whirled her wrath on Grimalkin as Jelaqua sighed and stripped off her gloves.
“Magus, why didn’t you stop her? Anama, you need a [Healer] and—and I wish to file a complaint, officer! All your apprentices here and no one did something?”
She shrieked at the students, who appeared abashed, but the Sinew Magus lifted a finger.
“With great respect, Lady Melika, and as a [Magus] granted permission for such spells by Pallass, please, [Calm] for a second. Don’t begrudge my students.”
Melika blinked as he gestured at Jelaqua, who was stretching her back and sighing. The Sinew Magus spoke in his lecturing tone of voice to his class.
“I see I have erred in my assumptions regarding this boxing ring that Lady Pryde’s subject informed her of. Its utility is unquestionable. However, Selphids and perhaps Dullahans and other species…no, Selphids will not benefit the same way nor be equal opponents. With padded gloves, in a ring? I would not go up against Miss Ivirith, Lady Melika. Nor would I put any money on anyone else in this room being able to stop her.”
Everyone turned to Jelaqua, and they studied her. A Selphid in a dead body—impossible to concuss. Impossible to stop, even if you hit her as hard as you could with a padded glove. Able to Rampage…now, Melika gave Jelaqua an appropriate look, and Grimalkin felt bad for the Selphid as she grinned ruefully.
After a moment, though, his pontifications and his grand theorems on the state of the world were surprised, as they always were, by her. Lady Pryde Ulta glanced at Grimalkin, then picked up a pair of training gloves strewn on the ground.
“An interesting statement, Grimalkin. I find myself compelled to test it. Selphid, stay in the ring.”
She rose, the paper bag with eyeholes on her head gleaming faintly purple as Jelaqua Ivirith turned. Grimalkin felt his heart surge with disbelief and affection at the very stupid move as Lady Pryde slammed her gloves together.
 
——
 
Eight minutes later, Grimalkin put a cold compress on Lady Pryde’s stomach. The [Lady of Pride]’s ego barrier was completely blown out, and so her voice was very soft and much less confident—for various reasons.
“That…might have been a mistake.”
“Yes, but I quite admired it.”
He kissed her hand as some of the Drakes watching turned away, but his eyes were only for her. Jelaqua Ivirith just smiled as she flipped the busted gloves onto a hook and strolled out of his gymnasium.
They arrested her, of course, but Grimalkin put in a good word for Jelaqua, and she walked free rather fast—after he and Lady Pryde had a personal moment. Wonderful term, that.
 
——
 
Maughin met Jelaqua outside of the Watch House, deeply disturbed. A few Dullahans were watching her, but Jelaqua felt calm. Good. And free, a fact that surprised him greatly.
“Jelaqua, I was informed you’d been arrested—”
“Detained for questioning. Melika lodged a complaint, but I sorted it out.”
“Wh—how? What happened?”
“I beat a kid up until she counterlevelled and capstoned. C’mon, I’ll walk with you. You didn’t take time out of your day, did you?”
She gave him an abbreviated tale as Maughin’s mouth opened and closed, but she was carrying his head, then, and they were on the move.
“We’re almost finished drafting our plan, and we have the support of Senator Errif, who wishes to combat the Wistram-focus. The Engineering Guild has work! We owe it to, er, Lord Werdin Blackwing.”
“Ooh. I feel bad about that now. Had to be done. I’ll be busy tomorrow too, Maughy. Don’t worry; I know what I’m doing.”
He knew she did, but the [Smith] kept staring back at the Watch House.
“I don’t understand. You did attack the girl despite her asking you not to? With witnesses? How did you walk out of there without an arrest? Unless she dropped them?”
“Nope. It was all Melika. I walked out because it was Watch Captain Qissa in there.”
He stared blankly at her, and Jelaqua elaborated.
“From last night? I also mentioned Zemize.”
“Oh. Oh. Is that…?”
“That’s Gold-rankers for you. Plus, we’re on her floor. I checked the day list.”
She winked at him. The [Smith] was entirely taken aback, and he gazed at Jelaqua as she speed-walked them back to their home.
The flames of glory were still blazing there, perhaps even higher than before. The Selphid lingered, gazing into them; they were the only things she had eyes for. The stares of other Dullahans, even the censure of the Watch and Melika…when Maughin turned the door, she blinked at him.
He was sooty from a day of work, and he’d had to jog to keep up with her. Maughin rumbled as his gleaming mithril-alloy armor moved with his body, and he bent down so his head was at a level with hers.
“Jelaqua, I fear you’re harming your reputation in Pallass. I understand, of course, but I’m concerned. That girl you fought…”
The Selphid avoided looking at him and brushed at her hair.
“Eh, I feel worst about Melika. But don’t worry, Maughin. I feel great. When are you putting your proposal before Senator Errif? Tomorrow? Perfect. I’ve gotta write a letter, and I think I can whip up dinner…I think Melika’s too freaked out right now, and Anama’s going to have to process her levels, so leftovers and snuggles it is! I’ve got a new body…though I don’t think that’s one for intimacy. What else? Uh—uh, Ishkr. He likes to watch this kind of stuff. And I’d better—no, I can start at the bakery and then—”
She was speaking faster and faster. Lost in a world of her own. Something haunting her, perhaps—until Maughin clapped his hands together. The armored fingers made a sound like the clash of metal, and the Selphid jumped.
She had a hand on her flail when she saw Maughin moving into the kitchen. Jelaqua blinked, then rushed after him.
“Wait, Maughy, sorry, I forgot dinner! I’ll cook! I have [Swift Errand]; it won’t take me a minute to—”
“Jelaqua Ivirith, sit.”
He pointed a finger at her, and she froze. Maughin’s voice was impassive, like Dullahans got when they were angry or upset. Fear replaced her racing mind. Was she upsetting him? She’d made them look bad in front of so many. She began to panic—then worried as the panic died down.
She had to do this. But she feared what that meant for…
The Dullahan stopped inspecting their rune-cooled fridge and nodded.
“We have ingredients for dinner.”
“I’ll just—”
“Sit. I will make the food.”
She sat, but that was a kind of agony as Maughin moved around the kitchen, laying out the ingredients he needed like he was at his forge, consulting his mother’s cookbook, setting a pot to boil.
“Maughin, I know it sounds and looks bad, but I—”
“No, Jelaqua. Please. One step at a time.”
He was chopping vegetables and glanced up at her. She hesitated.
“If you’re mad at me, please don’t go silent. Let’s talk—”
“I’m not angry, Jelaqua.”
“Then let me—”
“It’s my turn to cook. You are clearly busy.”
Jelaqua laughed.
“Me? Busy? I just went out and did a few things. You were at the forge—”
“And now we are equally busy. Thus, it is my turn. I have enjoyed doing few chores while you were unoccupied. That moment has changed. You will sit, please. I insist. I am no [Husband]. But perhaps it is my turn to earn the class.”
That surprised Jelaqua so much she remained seated, mouth open.
“Maughy. What’s…?”
He carefully put the green bell peppers into a bowl and then looked up at her.
“I cannot follow the chain of events that led you to the Watch House, nor your plans for tomorrow without seeing the steps, Jelaqua. Please, lay them out for me.”
They…weren’t fighting about her actions today? Jelaqua was confused. Maughin didn’t even bring up the Watch House. Just—
Oh. He was waiting, going through the steps of his recipe like he would the stages of forging metal. Like that—he cleared his throat.
“You do have a plan, don’t you? Have you written it down?”
“Me? Bah, I’ve got it here—hey!”
He’d found a piece of chalk and handed it to her along with a little slate blackboard he used for taking notes, then washed his hands and went back to cooking.
“I’m not as gifted as you are, Jelaqua. But as your husband, I must ask that you lay it out for me. We are a team of sorts. Not your Halfseekers. I would never claim to be them. But if I do not know the plan, how can I support you?”
He gazed at her, and she sat on their couch and realized he really hadn’t known anything of what was going on until he heard about the fight and arrest.
But he wasn’t bringing that up. He was…trusting her. And just asking her to spell it out for him so he could back her. Her hand trembled on the piece of chalk, and her body’s throat was dry.
“I…I’m sorry I didn’t tell you about my plan, Maughin. I was worried you’d stop me or freak out—”
He smiled as he began to mince some beef up.
“I did not marry a Gold-ranked adventurer because I thought it would be a quiet life, Jelaqua. I have been waiting to see what you would do next. If I wanted a wife who only cooked, cleaned, and listened to my woes, I would have married my mother’s many, many candidates. I fell in love with you because I wanted to forge you armor that would not break the next time you faced a monster.”
His smile slipped.
“I failed.”
“M-Maughin. No, you didn’t—”
He shook his head as he continued to work, head sitting on the counter, looking at her.
“It is improper for me to take even an ounce of your grief with my foolish thoughts. But it is right that I, as your husband, ask you what you’re doing and support you. A [Smith] prides himself on his craft, but also those who are worthy of it. In you, I found someone who exceeded the limits of my craft.”
He shook his head as she sat there.
“My mother and father asked me, the day before we wed, if I had been tricked by you. As if it were not the other way around. Forgive them, Jelaqua, if they earn it. But please, tell me your plans. How else will I smile when I see them realized?”
He gave her that shy expression then, of someone gazing at a valuable ingot of metal—the most valuable thing he’d ever laid eyes on. The one thing he could not forge nor would ever sell. And she remembered why she’d liked him.
The Selphid blushed pure orange as she fumbled her chalk pencil.
“You—you big softy! You could scold me or, I dunno, paddle my rear or something! I did get arrested!”
“I do not mix the bedroom with the kitchen.”
That drew a full laugh from Jelaqua. She smiled, then, like the mysterious Gold-ranker he had been charmed by, someone who had gone far beyond the limits of his imagination and yet seemed to find him a worthy adventure.
Then, as he waited for food to cook, he sat, and she sat on his lap and began to write down her plans. Maughin listened, his body getting up to work, making her lay it out like the steps of a forge. Nodding along, and she smiled as she felt the ideas in her head crystalizing as well.
A relief to a fear she’d kept inside of her. That he was unwilling to tolerate her actions or, worse, they might get bored of each other. Instead, she realized he’d just been waiting, that patient, sneaking Dullahan.
 
[Loving Wife Level 14!]
[Skill – Lover: Buffed Boots, Buffed Speed Obtained!]
 
[Dutiful Husband Class Obtained!]
[Dutiful Husband Level 3!]
[Skill – Lover: Perfect-fit Armor Obtained!]
[Synergy Skill – Lover’s Embrace: Rhythm of Steel Obtained!]
[Skill – Locate Lover Obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Resistance: Bludgeoning Obtained!]
 
They both woke up, exclaimed, and hugged in the night before going back to sleep. They had a big day ahead of them.
Privately, though…that last one was a bit of a relief to Maughin. Jelaqua really didn’t know her own strength.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith visited her least favorite place in the entire world. Her second-least favorite being probably the Demon Lands in Rhir or something.
Steelforged Loaves, the bakery run by Maughin’s parents, was already serving early-morning customers, and Mordol was in the back. Milden shot Jelaqua a warning look when she came in, but it was the blank-faced woman with her head in a basket who made eye-contact with Jelaqua.
Vhiren, Maughin’s mother, made no gesture of greeting or acknowledgement, which was a slap in the face. But Jelaqua’s body was dead, and she’d punched out Lady Pryde yesterday. She could take a hit, and today, she was all business.
“Good morning, Miss Vhiren! No bread for me today. Well, maybe a croissant. Have you seen Landlord Inmal?”
The woman pulled a warm croissant out of the trays on display and spoke flatly.
“We have heard about last night, Adventurer Ivirith. Who is this [Landlord]? It is not appropriate that you should think you can find any Dullahan in this store because it is run by other Dullahans.”
“Oh, that’s me. Racist as Innkeeper Erin. Don’t worry, I only beat up Scorchlings and kids who’re dying and neglected. Someone’s got to.”
Jelaqua’s voice was too loud and cheerful in the bakery. The other Dullahans were studiously ignoring them, but she bet their ears would be a-waggling if they were half-Elves or Goblins. Vhiren refused Jelaqua’s coins stiffly.
“You are family.”
“Thank you so much.”
Jelaqua bowed to Vhiren and turned, polite as could be. The [Baker] hesitated and then called out when Jelaqua was halfway toward the door.
“Out of curiosity, if we did run into him—why are you looking for Landlord Inmal?”
Jelaqua pivoted, a smile on her face.
“Oh, that’s personal. He knows what he did. I’ll find him one way or another. Good thing it wasn’t here. Walls look fragile. Not termites, just—unenchanted. Plus, you’re family.”
As ominous statements went, that one made all the Dullahans actually turn. Vhiren’s mouth stayed open, and then her daughter, Linteca, poked her head out of the back where she was getting breakfast. All the Dullahans began to whisper.
Who was this Inmal and why was Jelaqua searching for him? After a moment, Vhiren sent her daughter out of her shop to ask a question from someone else she knew in the community.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith hummed as she strolled across Pallass. Along the way, she ran into people, because it was such a lovely day.
“Captain Ivirith, we’re from the Landlord’s Guild. Were you by any chance looking for a certain member of ours? I hope we can resolve anything agreeably…?”
“Just looking for a word. Don’t worry, it’s between us. He knows what he did.”
“I, uh, I remind you that all tenants are securely locked within their contracts, adjudicated by our Guild! And that the Watch is involved in any serious altercations—”
“Thank you! I’m not worried. I’m best friends with Watch Captain Qissa, General Shirka, Secret Agent Zemize—and the inn. The Wandering Inn.”
Such pleasant conversations.
“Jelaqua Ivirith, you’re pushing your luck. Invoking my name is not wise, and you’re a wise woman. What are you doing?”
“You tell me, Zemize. Papers, please.”
“…Your knowledge of certain events does not guarantee you immunity from Pallass’ laws.”
“I’m well aware. Catch me breaking any? Aside from yesterday, I’m not breaking any laws today.”
“If you cause trouble, well-intentioned or not—”
“Maybe I wouldn’t have to if you were good at your job. Whoops! Messed up your clothing there. You were saying, Agent?”
And then, of course the classic—
“Hey, Jelaqua.”
“Ishkr! You rogue, what are you doing, shopping?”
“Nope. Kevin and Grimalkin called in. They said you were ‘up to something’, and Lyonette sent me to investigate. Are you?”
“Sure am.”
“Heh. Need backup?”
“You know…could you get Silveran for me? You could watch if you want. I’m just headed to see my darling husband, Maughin!”
And then they were all in Senator Errif’s office! The Gnoll was one of Pallass’ major players in the Assembly of Crafts, and with a flourish, he produced a stamp.
“I am pleased, very pleased to approve this forge for the 9th Floor! And the expansion of the Smithing District to enable such a momentous project. I trust it will be soundproofed, and the Engineer’s Guild will spring into action! Spring into it, I say! That will show these Wistram-loving fools.”
He beamed as Maughin smiled and glanced at Ishkr, and all the [Aides] clearly wondered who he was. But the [Smith] proffered the contract for Errif to sign, and the Gnoll stamped it with a flourish. Then he blinked at the second piece of parchment.
“This one too, thanks Errif!”
“Oh, of course. Damn, there’s always two pieces of—wait a second, this isn’t the forge paperwork.”
Jelaqua beamed at the [Senator] over the table.
“Nope! Actually, I’m not sure whose district it is. But while we’re here—”
Maughin and everyone else in the room turned to Jelaqua. Ishkr was just grinning as the [Senator] fished out some spectacles and read.
“Hold on. This is a housing permit for…that’s not my district. I can’t approve this! And why are you—?”
Jelaqua leaned back in her chair.
“Whose district would this be? Let’s get it signed, Errif. It’s not a difficult permit.”
“No, but—this is highly irregular, Miss Ivirith. You should go through the proper channels for this. Why don’t I forward it to our system and—”
The Selphid’s voice grew louder as she sat in her chair.
“What? You don’t want to help the neglected children of Uplifting Wings? Senator, how could you!”
He blinked and protested.
“Miss Ivirith, don’t be upset. I respect your rank, of course, but—er, well, it’s just that I’d approve this, of course! It’s just a permit, but these things have to go in order!”
“So you won’t sign this paperwork for the orphans of the charity, Uplifting Wings? The one you gave money to just the other day?”
Amazingly, her voice got louder though her tone didn’t actually increase in intensity. It must be a Selphid trick; Errif glanced out his open office door.
“Miss Ivirith, I can see you’re upset, but this—”
“It’s just a housing permit for the poor children of Pallass without homes, Senator Errif. For Uplifting Wings—”
One of the [Aides], with excellent political instincts, was trying to close the door to Errif’s office. But wouldn’t you know it—Ishkr’s foot was in the way.
Amazing how that happened. She winked at him as he grinned. No wonder he was Erin’s best employee.
And it was also amazing how Errif could get tired of explaining at increasing volumes why this simple paperwork he’d be happy to sign, and had no problem with on paper, suddenly was able to get to the right desk, and a very surprised [Senator] reviewed and stamped it in no time. Jelaqua paid a fee, and that was that.
Paperwork and bureaucracy? So easy to do, so efficient! She thanked both [Senators], who had fingers in their ears and a mild case of deafness. They glared at her as Maughin tried to shove her outside.
He was scolding her loudly, of course, as he pushed her outside. Highly scandalized…Maughin only stopped and gave her a wink after they were outside. Then he kissed her and wished her good luck. After begging her publicly to not kill any [Landlords].
Now why would people think she was doing that?
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith stood outside Landlord Inmal’s personal residence.
Menacingly.
Well, that’s what he claimed when the Watch officer came by. She explained she was just politely waiting for a business opportunity and hadn’t known if he’d be in. If you couldn’t wait to talk to someone, what a world they lived in, eh?
The Dullahan wasn’t even that old. He was twenty years younger than she was and glared at her as the Watch officer stood by as a witness for their polite street discussion.
“I don’t know what you claim I’ve done to you, but if this is some tactic to threaten me, I have witnesses!”
“Landlord, I’d never threaten you! I am looking to buy one of your apartments at a reasonable rate—”
“Aha! The answer is no! You can’t threaten me!”
The Gold-rank adventurer nodded, keeping her smile on her face.
“Indeed I cannot. Well, that’s that, then. Good day to you! Officer, as you can see, I am now leaving, and I do not need to speak to this fine Dullahan again. You can accompany me to my next building if you’d like. I have another very simple business deal to partake in, and the buyer is already agreed.”
Inmal felt triumphant right until he heard the rest of what she was saying and squinted at her.
“What buyer?”
“None of your business.”
“I know what you’re trying to do—steal the Sootlings! You can’t rent to them! Even if I sold to you, I’m the only [Landlord] on the 5th that has a permit!”
“Well, one of two now.”
She showed him her permit, and he paled.
“You think you can steal my tenants?”
“Not at all. We’re just going to compete like friendly owners of real estate. I’m sure you’ll win them over with your long-term relationship and appeal, but I might get one or two, and that’s business, isn’t it?”
The Dullahan’s mouth worked. He turned to the Watch officer.
“This is a threat! She’s pressuring me!”
“With a Skill, sir? I don’t see one active. Legally, I’d have to check, but I think this is above-board.”
The officer was admiring the shiny bike that a Gnoll had parked as he listened to this meeting. Ishkr rang the bell as Jelaqua turned back to Inmal.
“There’s nothing to worry about, [Landlord]. There is no threat I could make aside from honest competition. You’ve done nothing wrong—unless you were failing to upkeep your property in accordance with Pallassian Housing Law Edict 31 on the subject of working sanitation and well access. But someone would have filed a complaint about that! And you wouldn’t be in trouble unless you hadn’t fixed the well for over two months. But who wouldn’t file a complaint with the Watch until now?”
She had to lean on his shoulder as she laughed about that. Then Jelaqua patted the suddenly very-still Dullahan on the shoulder.
“They’d have to be terrified of the consequences not to! Funny thing about crimes. They don’t go away if you wait. Well, some actually do, but socially it’s a bad look. And the funny thing about consequences is that you should fear them—until they go away.”
She smiled and turned to the Watch officer.
“Alright, I’m ready to buy that new apartment complex. Unless [Landlord] Inmal has something to say?”
She turned, and at this point, she rather suspected he wished she’d punched him.
 
——
 
Being a [Landlord] sucked, anyways. Jelaqua didn’t need the class, but she stamped the paperwork and then slapped her forehead.
“You didn’t actually bring Silveran here, Ishkr? Because that would be a real Erin move, and we’re not having that today, are we?”
He smiled and chuckled as Jelaqua grabbed a bunch of tools he’d thoughtfully brought over.
“Not at all. Silveran does hire other employees. How does a Human and Gnoll duo sound? Both over Level 30.”
“Dead gods. Level 30 [Cleaners]? What is Silveran cleaning over there?”
“Everything.”
The duo wearing Silveran’s Cleaners uniforms were waiting for Jelaqua when she met them at the apartment complex. The Selphid shook their hands. Male and female—she had to ask.
“How’d you level that fast?”
“Well, we were both Level 20 when Silveran scouted us. It was join him or be swept over by the broom of change.”
“The mop of modernity.”
“The brush of Antinium working too damn hard to keep up with! Plus, he guarantees us a good hourly wage. We serve three cities now, and Pallass is a good test ground, he says. Mind if we take notes on how hard it is?”
“Sure thing! And I owe Silveran a big tip; let me just talk to the tenants. We’ll avoid anyone inside until we have word—you know how to clear a well?”
The [Cleaners] nodded.
“We have a lot of classes that synergize with our main one. You’re in luck; Minty Mithy here is a [Plumbing Cleaner]. Amazing how often you have to unclog piping in a house. I’m a [Pest Cleaner].”
“Awfully broad class, [Cleaner].”
“As broad as the horizons Silveran intends to polish clean with the, uh…Mithy?”
“The dustrag of the future?”
“Ooh, I like that.”
They were a riot. Plus, with Ishkr around, their classes were even more powerful. It still didn’t quite explain how they’d levelled as fast as active-duty adventurers, though. However, Jelaqua heard Ishkr talking to them.
“I’m Ishkr, from the inn. If you two ever wanted to come by for a meal, consider yourselves on the guest list.”
“Oh. Ohhh! The inn! I can’t believe I forgot where it was! Handy trick, that. Silveran remembered, but the rest of us—so you’re Ishkr. I gotta say, I wanted to meet you. We think we level fast, but you…you’re a legend in the service industry.”
“I’m not that special. I’m just levelling to survive at the inn. May I ask how you two breached Level 30 in a year?”
Simon, or rather, ‘Scourge Simon’ as he was known, laughed easily.
“Hard work. You haven’t seen Silveran’s Cleaners taking on the Hard Jobs, have you?”
“I can’t say I have. We’ve had his cleaners in the inn before, and Silveran himself does a lot of cleanup after disasters…what kind of ‘hard jobs’ are these?”
“The ones no [Cleaner] did or was called on, my friend. That’s the Silveran way. Not just painstaking deep cleans or getting the best in the business—he does that. If you can’t keep up with an Antinium Worker who loves, loves to clean, you can find another business. We don’t cut corners, and he’s charging a high price.”
“Really? Most Antinium don’t know to do that. Then again, most sell to each other…”
Minty Mithy was unpacking an enchanted broom.
“Silveran’s kind as a puppy. It’s when he gets the mustache that he negotiates like a [Merchant]. Hard Jobs are where he made a name for himself. We go in and we clean out, well…bad spots. The kind where you’d rather toss a [Fireball] than touch anything.”
Simon had lost his smile.
“Hard spots, hard situations. Not just someone passing and leaving all the things they hoarded. There’s more to it than just wiping water away. You have conversations with people. Rough ones, but Silveran took the lead. He cleans a spot and comes back sometimes to make sure it stays cleaned. That’s a Hard Job. Not like we take them on all the time. To be honest, I’m glad this doesn’t sound as hard as some.”
Now, Ishkr was nodding. Simon scratched at his head, remembering.
“We’ve gone into Esthelm’s sewers when Bronze-ranks refused because of the smell and blockages. I remember what a third of the staff said, don’t you, Mithy? ‘That’s not a [Cleaner]’s job!’ To which Silveran said they could stay behind. He was levelling. Cue him beating down a Toileteater Pig with a broom.”
Ah, there it was. Jelaqua grinned as she finished getting the rusted cover off the well. A man after her own heart, Silveran. In any class, you could coast along, do the safe, responsible thing. And that would level you, but they all knew the truth.
When you fought, you levelled. And you fought hard, dirty, fast, and desperate—so the [Cleaners] were ready to rumble with Pallass’ finest. Jelaqua thought Pallass’ cleaning companies wouldn’t know what hit them.
“Alright, speaking of cleaning, well’s ready to be cleared. Mind if I hop down first?”
She had the vague idea this might be a monster, and the Raskghar weighed on her mind. The two [Cleaners] were only too happy to help her into the harness to be lowered down, but first, all four spent a good moment to admire the well.
Wells in Pallass were actually elegant things. Because the City of Inventions was a pyramid design. Each floor overlapped on the one below, so the visible space shrank the further down you got. Citizens living on the 1st Floor would be under the other floors almost everywhere they walked; hence the City of Innovation’s emphasis on lighting and greenery to keep people from developing cabin fever.
Because of that curious design, there was no possibility of a straight well running from top floor down, was there? So how did you get water at all that high up?
Piping. And the huge system of water that was pumped upwards by Pallass’ machinery. So this well connected directly to a cistern for the district, then floor…Jelaqua Ivirith found the problem as they lowered her into the well.
“Yep! Here’s a clog! Gross!”
“I’ll vaporize it with my [Cleaning Blast]! That’s a real Skill! The water will taste pretty minty for like a week afterwards—that’s a sign it’s clean! But we’ll scrub down the mold and make sure the cistern’s clean if we can get access!”
Mithy shouted down the well. Jelaqua hollered back.
“I think as a landlord I have access! Ishkr, can you figure that out? I’m going to check for any monsters! Probably no rats, but if there’s a slime, I’ll punch it!”
Even Water Slimes could germinate in the cleanest of places, and Jelaqua did in fact find one to punch. She tossed the mana core up at Minty Mithy as they pulled her up, and by now, there were faces poking out of the apartment windows.
Ishkr and Scourge Simon had introduced themselves as repairspeople, which had made the tenants brighten up, but when the Selphid came out of the well, they froze.
They recognized Jelaqua.
“Oh no, it’s her again! Someone call Melika!”
“Landlord Inmal is going to flip out! And raise rent! He does it when he’s mad—”
“I heard she was going to murder him!”
Jelaqua strolled over and waved at them.
“Hoya, kids! Don’t worry about the old guy; he’s fine. I’m your new landlady! I don’t have the class, but we’re fixing the well up! And if you let Scourge Simon in, he’ll clean your rooms up in a second!”
The man gave the younger people a huge smile that belied his terrifying name in the [Cleaners]’ world. He had amazing dimples.
The tenants of the apartment complex stared as there was a rumble from below, then Minty came up the well, laughing as water began to pour from the spigot.
“One shot, one clean! Okay, scrubbing brush—no one drink from it until I’m done!”
“You bought the apartments? But why…?”
A confused Merry was rubbing at his eyes as he came out of his apartments, probably because he worked a night-shift job. He turned and flinched; there was a clang as Ishkr took the gate off by the hinges.
“Our gate!”
“Don’t worry about it, kids. That gate isn’t worth spit. I could bust it down with the lock in five seconds, and any [Thief] will just jump the fence. We’ve got a better one from a [Smith] my husband knows. And wards. Now, you’ll need one of these…”
She handed Merry a little glowing stone, then another.
“This one lets you in at the gate, or an alarm sounds. This one you press if you’re in trouble. Anyone with a keyed stone hears it and knows where you are. Plus, it’s loud as shit, so the Watch usually comes running.”
He blinked at the stones. Then stared at Jelaqua.
“Why’re you doing this? Melika already makes sure we get food and medicine.”
“She does a lot. I’m just some busybody adventurer. What’s your level in [Rogue], lad?”
She threw an arm around his shoulders, and Merry hesitated.
“Only 14, but—how’d you—?”
“Most classes start as [Rogue]. Or [Thief]. For you, hitting a higher level isn’t as vital as it is for Anama, but there’s ways to hit Level 20 easy. They just require suffering. You’re below anyone who needs levelling, but just hit me up. I knew a Drowned Man who was the best [Rogue] I ever met. Off and on land. I hope he’s doing well. Oh, and if you’re working for a gang that does some seedy shit, knock it off and quit before they vanish. I will evict anyone who’s selling something dangerous or committing terrible crimes. If you need work, that’s different.”
The Selphid stretched her back out, and it cracked as the half-Gnoll [Rogue] blinked at her. She cast around the apartment complex and thought it needed…something. A flag. You always needed flags. Adventurer teams didn’t have them in Izril, and that was a shame. The ones in Baleros had amazing flags. But this was no team. It was something else.
 
——
 
Melika Blackwing was a bad flier. Pallass didn’t exactly strain your wing muscles, so when she flapped on in, ducking the ceiling, Jelaqua was already giving a lecture to her tenants.
“Alright, if you want to hit Level 10 in any combat class, it’s you and me. It might take more than one try because now you’re aiming for it, but believe me, you’ll need potions. If you want more than that? There are Silver-rank quests that Celum, Esthelm, Liscor—well, Liscor’s underwater, so not there—and Pallass offer. That’s not easier. In fact, it’s harder because you could get hurt and die. Especially because you’ll pull your weight. Choice is yours. But I’ll train anyone who wants it, not even for levels. Self-defense? You name it. If you want a job, I’m less good at that, but there’s [Smiths] who need a hand, and I’ve got contacts in Liscor.”
Melika listened, open-mouthed, as Ishkr waved.
“I’m Ishkr. I’m just here to watch.”
He wore a mysterious smile, and something in Melika told her that he—she should impress him. Her [Socialite] class had never steered her wrong before, but for once, she ignored the instincts.
“Jelaqua Ivirith! What are you doing? This is unacceptable! You can’t—how did you buy—? Inmal never took the offers I made with my charity, and the [Senator]’s office kept saying that the paperwork wasn’t one they were familiar with!”
Jelaqua Ivirith turned, and she smiled at the Garuda as water came out of a pump. Then she turned and called out.
“Don’t get too complacent with that well! How much is plumbing? Damn, I’d better check my account. I am gonna have to charge rent. I wonder if that’s how they all turn into bastards.”
She sighed as Minty Mithy offered to do the work—if Silveran’s Cleaners got their permit for Pallass. Melika just gazed around for Anama.
The Drake was peeking out of her rooms at Jelaqua, not coming down. The Selphid waved up at her and commented to Melika.
“She might never be at ease with me. I won’t actually come by that often if I bother them; you can run this place if it makes you feel better. Most of the Halfseekers can’t level someone.”
“You—you’re insane, Jelaqua. And a bully! You strongarmed Inmal into selling and the Watch—! How could you hit her like that?”
Melika was trembling. She had no read on the Selphid, who she believed was the kindest, most heroic Gold-ranker she knew. And who her class had told her was genuine! Even now, Jelaqua Ivirith seemed gentle, but her smile was hard.
“Because if Anama hits Level 30, she’ll live past 40 years. If she hits Level 40, she’ll make it to her seventies. Level 50? I think at that point any negative a Scorchling has vanishes.”
The Garuda tried a different tack; she seemed to be sliding off Jelaqua’s wall of insanity.
“You want to send them on adventuring missions? As Silver-rank adventurers? Are you mad?”
“They’re not adventurers, but I was. I’m not turning them into ones unless they want to be. But the Scorchlings can fight. In fact, it’s the best class for them because [Warriors] get the toughest. And they’ll be good at it.”
“They’re children. None of them have left Pallass’ walls except for excursions!”
Melika shrieked at Jelaqua, and the Selphid rubbed at one ear.
“Maybe they should have. Fresh air is good for your lungs. They’re Scorchlings, Melika. If it’s in their wings, their gravity’s shifted. If they’re afflicted by breath, it’s always powerful, even if it hurts them. I’ve known Sootlings, Scorchlings, whatever you want to call them before, and they can fight.”
“They don’t have to. This is Pallass, not—not Baleros! You can’t keep them safe, you said yourself!”
Melika saw horrors, and Jelaqua Ivirith’s eyes were cold now.
“No. I can’t even save my own team. But I can give them those levels. Their choice.”
“You didn’t give Anama a choice!”
The Selphid shrugged.
“No, but that’s because I had the chance. If I could, I’d lock each one of ‘em in a ring with me and damn me for it. I’m the best Halfseeker for this. Moore could never do it. Most of the Halfseekers couldn’t or didn’t have the control. Even Seborn’s too soft for all he talks hard. It was just me and Garen, if they even let him in the city.”
Her head turned to Melika as the Garuda panted.
“You’re insane. I’ll get the Watch to keep you from the orphanage! You—you can’t be their [Landlady]!”
Jelaqua looked sad, then. She turned to Melika, hands in her pockets.
“I’m sorry, I really am. You did such a great job with what you had, and here I am barging in…it’s what I do. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. I smash things and break what I don’t like. Everyone thinks it’s because I’m related to the inn. Well, it’s not. Erin’s just one of us.”
She jerked a thumb at her chest now, and her eyes were blazing with that pink flame. It felt, then, like she was the only person in the plaza that was real. Like she were sucking the color and vividness from everyone else around her. Only her—and the Gnoll behind her, who sat like a witness to such things. Like he was meant to be there.
“Boring Gold-rankers go around slaying monsters or being famous for finding treasure. The real ones change things. The Silver Swords saved more lives than you or I will ever know. Griffon Hunt? They’ve stopped Griffin attacks across Izril for places that needed it for two decades. That Griffin migration would have killed thousands. Damn shame about Typhenous’ mistake. Damn shame. We make mistakes, but we never back down from fights.”
The Garuda [Socialite] said nothing as Jelaqua smiled and glanced around at the young people.
“No fighting in the ranks, kids. Squabble and bicker and tease, but you’re all on the same side, got it? That’s how it works. When one of you calls for help, everyone comes running. Alright, enough speeches! Who needs a hand first?”
She turned away, glancing at Melika as if wondering if they were enemies now. The Garuda woman didn’t know. How was she supposed to fight Captain Jelaqua Ivirith? A Gold-rank adventurer?
 
——
 
Jelaqua stood there in the plaza, giving advice, instructions, directions, to the people who came and went. Rarely, gold. Usually for contractors.
“I don’t give handouts. I’m not rich enough, and it doesn’t help. If you want to sign up for adventuring duty, you need to train. Hey, Ophala, who’s your gang?”
She was giving the featherless Garuda a hard time. Ophala ducked into the stairwell, appearing hunted, and Jelaqua sighed. Then she stood as a shadow crept down, mixing with the inky blackness that appeared when the night-lights sprang to life from the ceiling overhead.
“She doesn’t gang. She’s too goody-goody and wants to impress Melika for that. I think she’s a [Lookout].”
“For some big gang? That’s a risky job, and she seems quick. She laced you twice when you two were fighting. Who’s she report to?”
Jelaqua didn’t turn her head as Anama sat on the stairs that were going to be demolished and rebuilt tomorrow apparently. Gold and her name had power. Anama wanted it. She hated Jelaqua; she had never disliked anyone more. She had never wanted the Selphid’s abilities more. Even more than wanting to breathe without coughing…
The Scorchling coughed now, and Jelaqua glanced at her.
“Shame you didn’t get better lungs or heat control.”
“I—I wanted scales.”
“Ah, want. Careful. You should want to be better rather than look better at Level 20. If you hit it. You could just sit here and find another group to run with. Melika takes care of you kids well. Maybe…too well.”
Jelaqua put a foot on the repaired well’s cover, and Anama glared.
“Are you being sarcastic? You did more’n she could. How’s she doing too well?”
The Selphid tilted her head.
“I’m here a day, kid. Who knows, I might have a kid, lose interest, be gone tomorrow. She’s been with you since you were kids. Time matters. Now I’m doing speeches again. What I meant was—when life is hard, you level. So maybe without her, more of you would be dead or worse, but a few of you’d have levelled. That’s the damn thing about how levels work.”
She sighed, and Anama coughed.
“So why aren’t you making our lives hell? Free toilets instead of the shared ones sounds easier.”
“Shitting in a bucket instead of a toilet never levelled anyone up, Anama. Except that one time…that’s a rumor. I guess I’m soft. Besides, some things would be better if you had them, right?”
The young woman coughed again.
“A tub would be…nice. One that fills with cold water instead of having to go to a bathhouse and pay for it?”
Her voice filled with longing at the idea, and Jelaqua glanced at her, and her face grew shadowed.
“Yeah. Imagine that in Pallass of all places. You’ll get one.”
Then they were quiet. Anama rubbed her chest. She forced the words out after a lot of tries, and they were halting because she was afraid. Afraid to ask and be answered.
“Can you—can you really make me better?”
Jelaqua turned her head.
“I can level you up. The number of my friends who hit Level 30 are six out of eight. That’s a good record. The number of my friends who hit Level 40…? Zero. Well, one, but I don’t think he counts.”
She laughed ruefully. Anama didn’t know what she meant, but she drank in the words like cooling rain.
“I’m only a Gold-ranker, Anama. You think that’s big because you’ve never seen the top. I’m a mean old Selphid. Not Melika. She’s kindness all the way down, like a cake. I’m filled with beartraps. But I can do what’s needed. At the very least, I know what you all need. And it’s to stop acting like you quit Uplifting Wings once you get too old. You’re a team. You grew up together, damn it! You support each other and fight and die together.”
She turned her head.
“Well, that’s all I know from Baleros. Funny thing is, Melika’s from there too. She’s awfully kind for someone from the Continent of War.”
Anama sat there, excited and afraid of this woman who was contemplating her new future. Because she felt like she was going to sign up on the piece of paper Jelaqua had tacked up, even though Melika said she could stay at the orphanage or anywhere else.
Death or glory. And death was coming for Anama; Jelaqua Ivirith had never lied about that, and Melika did. The Selphid knew death, and Anama’s scales were cool and not flaking for the first time in her life. So she croaked a secret.
“Ophala ‘n Merry and Consillir all run in the same gang. I dunno how they get money, but they work for someone important.”
“Oh? That’s bad.”
“Maybe. But maybe you know her? She’s that Drake who follows you around sometimes. The one with the badge?”
Jelaqua stiffened and swore under her breath.
“Zemize. No wonder she knows what I’m doing. Damn it. First the Raskghar, now this. I thought Pallass was going to be boring! It’s only a Walled City, I said—ah, well.”
She let out a huge sigh and stretched. Anama heard her back pop, and the Selphid turned in the darkness of Pallass. Her smile caught the light as she chuckled.
“I was getting bored in my retirement.”
 
——
 
That night, Jelaqua Ivirith didn’t go to sleep in great expectations of anything, but it seemed something else did have plans for her. For as ever, she heard that voice.
 
[Steelforged Whirlwind Level 39…?]
 
It felt a bit…off. Jelaqua Ivirith shifted as she lay next to Maughin, not really awake. And she would have said, if she were fully awake, that the level didn’t track.
She’d done no real combat. But what else did she have? Only [Loving Wife], and that made no sense. Of course, you could give another class.
 
[Landlord Class Ob…!]
 
No, she wouldn’t take that, would she? The slumbering Jelaqua grimaced, and the voice trailed off.
Like it was thinking. Unravelling a little knot of Jelaqua’s actions. Because they were odd, weren’t they? Once again, she’d done something different. Something new…but they sort of fit with who she was as well. Just not her current, consolidated class.
Perhaps:
 
[Steelforged Whirlwind Level 38.]
[Subclass: Mercenary Level 25!]
[Skill – Beat Them Into…]
 
Again, the voice trailed off. Thoughtfully, and Jelaqua Ivirith slumbered, trusting and waiting. Until at last the voice came back, satisfied.
 
[Class Separation: Mercenary Reassigned.]
[Class Change: Mercenary → Company Commander Obtained!]
[Company Commander Level 26!]
[Skill – Gruelling Taskmistress Obtained!]
[Skill – Company: Check Condition Obtained!]
[Skill – Motivating Presence Obtained!]
[Skill – Company: Bonds of Fellowship Obtained!]
 
Then Jelaqua Ivirith opened her eyes and blinked at the ceiling.
“Class separation?”
She’d never heard of that. Next to her, Maughin’s body rolled over in his sleep. And what was that?
[Commander]? She’d been a [Mercenary], someone who could lead a squad, but a company? That was a huge promotion. But why…?
“Oh. I guess I was sort of thinking about it like that. Kids and soldiers. Someone needs to…yeah.”
The Selphid was staring at her hands. She saw Maughin open one sleepy eye.
“Jelaqua? Is it Raskghar again?”
“No; go to sleep, silly.”
He dropped off at once. Jelaqua would tell him in the morning, but she realized…yes. That was the right answer. That was how she was thinking.
Company. The [Company Commander] lay back in her bed and wondered if she’d ever hit Level 40. But eternally levelling in other classes.
A company. The idea bloomed in her head, the same thing that the voice had latched onto, and then Jelaqua saw it, like one of Maughin’s armor diagrams. An idea blooming in the darkness.
“Yeah. Why not?”
She didn’t know orphanages. She didn’t—couldn’t be Melika, trying to work within the law. All she knew was adventuring and her home. She knew how a company lived and worked. The Selphid rubbed at her chin. She wasn’t even the first to come to Izril. Perorn Fleethoof was the first.
Hers was just the second. A mercenary company like no other. The Selphid laughed to herself. Leading children.
Someone had to. She rolled over in her bed and was asleep in seconds, like the experienced campaigner she was. She had a busy day tomorrow and every day after that.
At last, she was back to work.

Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 8) (2025-10-04)

The rain was slackening. The sheets of water falling from the High Passes still rippled across the Floodplains, but nothing could last forever, and no matter how furious the storm, the citizens of Liscor knew it was ending.
They had been rained on for ages. Leaks had infiltrated the city, bringing with it streams of muddy siltwater, and the dripping damp had molded every available surface.
So why…did they seem so wistful? It had to be mold in the brain. That was what Archmage Valeterisa suspected.
Non-Liscorians like Lyonette, Mrsha, the Goblins, and herself were sensible. The Gnoll girl had once written to her mother that if she had to endure another day of damp fur, she’d shave herself bald like one of Baron Regalius’ cats. Nanette had vouchsafed that she’d be drier with her hat raining down her sadness on her back in Riverfarm.
And they were able to use the [Door of Portals] to go somewhere dry! How did you live before this?
It boggled the mind, and she said so, because she was 72% certain that it wouldn’t earn her censure for expressing her opinions. No matter how much he loved it, Liscor’s rains were stupid.
—The huge Drake just turned and grinned at her as they sat under her barrier spells in a rocking boat of all things. Valeterisa hated boats. She preferred to fly, but here she was, rocking precariously in less than a few inches of wood between her and the very cold, very deep waters.
“Relc, this is unnecessary. I can simply cast [Detect Life] and chain a [Stone Dart] spell to a [Magic Rope] spell and reel in any fish you want. No, wait…perhaps it would be more optimal to cast [Seeker Arrow] given fish can dodge. They can dodge, correct? Or perhaps a net. [Net of Nired], perhaps, but to mitigate the drag in the waters, a [Waterproofing] spell might let it efficiently move. That would last eight minutes if cast at full mana, but a reusable [Stone Dart] spell might yield far more returns assuming…”
She got distracted by her own mind halfway through her statement and began to compare spells for efficiency in fish-catching. Not because Valeterisa was so insane that she’d love to just field-test magic all day. She’d get bored after only an hour.
No, it was that she was that bored of this. Which was hard to fathom, because she was in Relc’s company, and she had once posited that she could watch paint dry and not be bored with him.
I fear our romance has ended its course. My infatuation with him is ending; our relationship is unsalvageable. Or fishing is that boring.
She was getting in touch with her emotions, and all of them said this sucked. The Archmage of Izril saw Relc glance over as he swished his line back and forth.
“I’m telling ya, Valley, it’s fun. Just wait until I catch something, huh?”
“What could be fun about putting a line in the water and waiting?”
He chuckled deep in his chest and shifted so she could grumpily lean against him. She’d gotten a day off from her taskmistress’—Montressa—workload and after working on her transportation magic, the academy, outwitting Fissival, and Eldavin’s new magical items quota, what were they doing in their spare time?
Fishing!
True, it was Relc’s turn to suggest an activity, but she’d been hoping to do puzzles or go for a walk somewhere dry. Anything but this.
Grumpily, Valeterisa swished her fishing pole. Relc was almost melancholic as he sighed at the skies.
“Even the fish can tell it’s going to stop raining soon. It’s so sad. Right when you get used to the rains, they go.”
“Relc, would you mind if I analyzed your brain and body for fungal parasites?”
“Hm? Sure, go ahead.”
As she did that, the Drake adjusted his fishing line, then gazed at Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril, his romantic partner, normally was rather happy to do most things with him. And the [Spearmaster], the Gecko of Liscor, was not blind. So he coughed into a fist.
“Look, give it fifteen more minutes, and if we can’t catch anything, we’ll head inside, huh? But I’m telling you, Valley. There’s a lot of joy to fishing.”
“Like what?”
She was grumpy and wondered if it was due to Relc being a father. She’d heard fathers developed strange habits like this. Puns, fishing…she adjusted the new robes she’d commissioned that he’d said nothing about. Not that you could really see them in the rain—she’d really been expecting that walk.
However, the Drake’s answer surprised Valeterisa.
“Thinking. An hour or two in the rain really lets you think things out. I’m not good at focusing unless I’m practicing with my spear or walking with nothing going on in Liscor. Or fishing.”
It was an unexpected answer if you thought Relc was some muscle-headed idiot. A common misconception. But for Valeterisa, it was doubly fascinating, so she listened, forgetting her uncomfortable seat and dislike of the damp boat as the Drake went on.
“I used to do this all the time when I was younger. Years ago, right when I first came to Liscor.”
“Is this a Relc story?”
“Wh—yeah? Aw, are you recording?”
“I like listening to them sometimes when I am flying. Montressa likes them too.”
“Valley, I told you not to share them. Okay—”
Relc adopted a slightly more official tone of voice as he cleared his throat. Then he just began to ramble as he gazed across the waters. Every now and then, he’d twitch the fishing pole, and she noticed his movements were less random than hers. She’d thought you just waited for fishes to eat the bait, but he wasn’t doing that.
“Fishing was the only way I could get some spare time to myself in the spring. Well, spring and summer; you can find mudpools for a long time afterwards and the rivers are great for a while. Not very pleasant with the bugs, but I did it when I was starting in the Watch. A lot during those first five years.”
“Why?”
“Well, I had this new partner that the Watch Captain had assigned me. Zevara—she saddled me with an Antinium of all things. Not just any Antinium: the Slayer. I wanted to kill him, but I wasn’t sure if he’d get me. I had retired so I wouldn’t be in danger, and here I am being told I might have to kill one of the Centenium if the Free Hive erupts!”
Relc shook his head, and Valeterisa put her chin in her hands, fascinated. This was a historical record that few people had considered. Liscor when the Free Antinium had been an unknown…this city was extraordinary even before Erin for so many reasons. The Gecko clenched a fist as he spoke.
“And he was so damn annoying. He was all rules back then. You think the Klbkch of now was bad? He’d come by like a Golem and point out all the things I was doing wrong. Plus, citizens hated us. We had Aberrations, and Soot’s gang was so bad, and there were attempts on Zevara’s life…and I was raising Embria until she ran away, and she hated my guts. So there wasn’t anywhere to go.”
“Oh, Relc. I’m sorry.”
“Nah, it got better. And fishing was one of the ways I figured out that Klbkch wasn’t that bad. I could think and stop getting mad—if I was so heated up I couldn’t even sit still, I’d jump in the water and punch a Rock Crab. When you’re stuck here, all you can do is think. And that means your brain makes more interesting stuff, y’know? Whenever I’m not fishing, I know I can do something better. Here? I know I’m stuck, so I think.”
“That’s…a good insight. But still, isn’t it rather monotonous?”
“Fishing? Nope. See, Valley, you’re just leaving your rod in the water. Here, see what I’m doing? Tugging it like this?”
“Simulating the movements of a fish? I have read books on the subject, Relc.”
He chuckled as he shook his head.
“Doing it is different than books, Valeterisa. There’s an art to mimicking how fish move. Even reeling them in. Sure, you can get an enchanted rod and just pull or use magic to heave ‘em up, but making sure your line doesn’t break, tiring the fish out? It’s something you have to practice. A skill.”
“I see. So that’s why you didn’t let me enchant the lines and we’re using rented poles.”
“Well, that and I’m cheap. I just like something where I’m concentrating and can think. Body does one thing, mind does the other, Valley. It’s like…spear dancing.”
He lost her. She could do the mind, but her body was uncoordinated as could be. Yet she’d seen Relc practicing with his spear; he did it daily for incredible amounts of time. He wore the same expression now. Absent concentration.
Not absent grace; everything he had was earned. But the fishing pole seemed to be imbued with an elegance completely other than her clumsy attempts with her rod. She knew that was just an illusion due to their skill levels, but the Drake murmured.
“I can’t even see into the waters. But sometimes, I swear, I can almost feel the fish down there. If I could only make ‘em leap onto my line, huh? I never got [Fisher] as a class, but I wonder if that’s how my [Spear Dance: The Fish Leap] appeared. That’d be funny.”
He drew his line across the waters left in a slow motion, then faster. Valeterisa stared into the waters, magic shining in her eyes. Relc pulled faster—then sighed.
“Damn. I thought I was luring something big. See, I do that too. I should just do fewer movements, but then I feel like I’m actually about to catch a fish. And it turns out I’m hallucinating.”
“Or something else eats the fish before it can bite your line.”
The Archmage of Izril gazed into the waters, and Relc snorted.
“Thanks for making me feel better.”
“Hm? Oh, yes. Go back to fishing, Relc. I believe in you.”
Absently, Valeterisa picked up her pole as Relc reset his line. She peered into the waters, and the Drake chuckled.
“You getting into it?”
“I could…watch for a while longer. Once I am thoroughly numb to the wet and cold, it is less painful than I thought.”
“See? You’re getting the hang of it! My old man liked to fish. That’s what one of my relatives said. I wouldn’t know; I don’t remember him much. But I wonder if I could’ve done this with him. Now, if I can get something nice and fresh, we’ll have it for lunch. Even a Quillfish! Calescent does a mean Quillfish grill.”
Liscorians and fish. It really was a sign the city had made you its own. Valeterisa and Relc were fishing close to The Wandering Inn for convenience’s sake, but she had seen private citizens fishing more than once while flying to and from the city.
Oh, and Liscor Hunted, whose springtime challenges included being handed a rock and told to walk for a thousand feet while fighting whatever came your way…while on the Floodplains’ floor, underwater. She wondered who paid for that kind of thing.
As the two sat, the water sloshing at the boat pushed them past a large hill with a few bridges across it. The two saw a solitary figure standing in the rain, ignoring it pounding over him in a squall. They turned, and Relc blinked, then raised a hand.
Lord Mireden Raithland, Lord Moore, was standing with a fishing rod in hand. Valeterisa opened her mouth as they floated by; he was reeling in a Quillfish.
“Hello, you two. Good fishing?”
“Nah, I haven’t caught anything yet! You?”
Relc eyed the pile of fish next to the half-Giant, and the man chuckled.
“Years of practice.”
“Hey, what about me? I’ve been fishing longer than you!”
“Well, you shouldn’t keep going after the most energetic fish then. The others can’t keep up to the challenge.”
Lord Moore nodded at Relc, who was darting his line back and forth with little jerks of his hand. Relc paused and glanced at his hand.
“Oh, right, but I’m being naturalistic.”
“Fish will eat dead bait without much reservation. Still, I admire your skill. Archmage, I apologize in advance for disturbing your date.”
“Not at all! It’s not disturbing and, um…”
She eyed him, a [Mage] of such caliber that she would be hard-pressed to find his equal in great numbers, even in Wistram. A man from the future with a terrible burden and weight about him. Valeterisa hesitated, wanting to ask about all this, but settled on—
“Shouldn’t you be running for office? I would imagine that requires a great deal of attention.”
It did in Wistram. It was always politicking for support. Lord Moore chuckled again.
“Ah, but that takes many forms, Archmage. Being likeable is as hard as being known, and having good policy, good messaging, these are all facets of winning an election.”
“Yes. So…”
He winked at her, then turned slightly. Both Relc and Valeterisa now saw his usual robes were gone. Instead, the half-Giant had a lovely stone grey cloak and a jacket that neatly framed a bright white shirt upon which was written…
‘I Survived Liscor Hunted.’
Huh. They glanced at each other, then Relc got a bite.
 
——
 
That half-Giant. Much could and perhaps would be said on Liscor’s election, which were hitherto largely unremarked upon by The Wandering Inn’s folk. However, they were nearing a zenith of intensity, and they were predominated by several factions.
Liscor’s current Council, which had much enduring support, and Liscor’s old Council, who had run their own old members on a platform of bringing Liscor back, both to its roots as well as undoing new measures like the rent control that was destabilizing, nay, ruining Liscor.
There were other factors, of course. Walled Cities putting their thumbs on the scales to get candidates they wanted, non-Drakes and non-Gnolls having voting power, and random outsiders like Lord Mireden.
The half-Giant had put his name into the race far too late to be a threat in his 3rd District…or so both sides had assumed. But now he was neck-and-neck with the Human candidate and one of the ‘Traditional Liscor’ candidates, who had moved into that area just to win a seat!
Outrageous! It was due to the new charms from Esthelm that had plastered his name over. He had even bought a store where all of them were being sold due to the intense demand and limited supply, and he attracted attention just by walking the streets! He broke up fights, talked to children and adults whenever anyone asked a question. Acting like some kind of—of leader of this city!
The nerve. Real Councilmembers didn’t have time to waste on the public; they were running campaigns to serve the city! All the gold they were spending on fliers and advertisements were having an effect on the current Council; it was neck-and-neck races for every district including even Krshia Silverfang, who had her entire people’s support!
But even with [Spectaclists] from Manus and [Propagandists] from Zeres coming in to put their support behind certain candidates, they were in for a nasty shock, because Mireden Raithland was vying for his seat with the savvy of an experienced [Politician].
Just today, why…that bastard had done it again!
 
——
 
Menolit Zifroflen was a rich businessdrake these days. He ran a good company that hired [Veterans], he had money to spend, and he was popular in Liscor and known beyond it. He had everything he wanted, except for love, and he credited it to The Wandering Inn.
No matter what anyone said about Erin, he knew what she had done for him. That he hadn’t found someone to share his success with, well, he just said that even Erin couldn’t work miracles all the time.
But he got asked, quite often, how, uh, his business worked. As in, how did anyone actually enjoy or sign up for Liscor Hunted? The entire premise of the event was suffering. Sir Relz and Noass had advertised it to the world, true, but that had been by the pair nearly getting eaten by a Rock Crab! Menolit had one answer for the doubters, the haters, the skeptics, and the fools:
“Recordings.”
Liscor Hunted had six scrying mirrors in the huge glass windows outside the hunting-lodge themed building with trophies and dangerous bestiary entries of local wildlife tacked onto the walls. Oh, and mugshots of successful winners.
Getting your name on Liscor Hunted’s walls was prestigious. Proving you had the grit, the real grit to survive one of their intense ‘levels’ was a mark of pride for a lot of Pallassians with comfortable, safe lives. Like Pallass Hunting, Liscor Hunted catered to a richer class of people who wanted to prove they were wild predators in the ‘outside world’.
…For its citizens, it was an endless source of entertainment and daredevilry, because Liscor Hunted recorded everything these days, and they displayed it on the scrying mirrors.
You could opt out, but even the most embarrassing moments were usually allowed by clients, who regarded themselves screaming and fleeing nests of Shield Spiders with a kind of chagrined pride.
Look at me, I survived that! They even sold highlight reels of the most insane escapes or escapades.
One of Menolit’s top items was a mishmash of clips he’d personally put together. It had the famous Sir Relz and Noass scene where the noble Drake told Noass to take his monocle if he died, a Wall Lord of Pallass getting chased around by a huge Shield Spider, and the famous Lyonette-Bethal fish slap fight.
But it wasn’t just failure, see. He’d show it to a crowd of skeptics, and right when they were laughing, they’d see the screaming Drake from Pallass get backed into a wall. One of the [Hunters] that was there to save him from actual death would call out if he needed rescue, and the somewhat overweight Drake would look at the Shield Spider that was four feet high, mind you, check for weapons, which he had none of—then raise his fists.
Two and a half minutes of watching a pampered Pallassian Wall Lord bare-knuckle fighting a Shield Spider—and win—and you were thinking, ‘damn, that could have been me’. The triumph of him running the Shield Spider off? The fact that he had that clip of himself and, apparently, it had totally revolutionized his popularity in Pallass and his own self-confidence?
That was gold. That was also what Menolit wanted to see. Sure, it was funny to watch some rich idiots suffer, but one in, oh, forty times, someone just buckled down, gained a combat or [Survivor] class, and came out actually looking changed. That was why he thought Liscor Hunted was more than the funny marketing scheme he’d come up with.
Anyways, Menolit was voting for Lism in the elections. No questions asked. He didn’t like Lism given his relationship with Erin, but it was better than the old Councilmember Lism was up against. Menolit had been asked several times to put Liscor Hunted in the elections. To give some of the candidates of the ‘Traditional Liscor’ party a good sheen.
He’d refused. Nor had he given the current Council an option to have an ‘easy’ version of Liscor Hunted; they had wisely decided not to use that to enhance their image after one of Elirr’s competitors had had to retire due to falling into a Shield Spider nest. However, Menolit was hardly apolitical, and that was why, today, everyone was gathering around Liscor Hunted to watch the latest clip, which was going in the hall of fame.
The Lurkersnatch was one of the nastiest creatures in the Floodplains and an ‘honorable quit’ as far as Liscor Hunted was concerned. Like a Rock Crab, they couldn’t guarantee you’d be okay if you ran into it. You signed a waiver about knowing you might die; if one came at you, the advice from the organization and former participants was to quit. Lurkersnatches had huge tentacles and could crush a head and drag you into the water where you’d be drowning and being torn apart.
That was why seeing a half-Giant dragging one out of the water and punching it until it was rolling onto its back was a sight. Lord Mireden actually put one arm around the Lurkersnatch’s body, grimacing as it bit him with a beak, to keep it from getting into the water. Then he threw it into another hill, and, well, that was Hall of Fame material right there.
Someone who survived Liscor Hunted had to get some admiration from people voting. Not only that, the half-Giant wasn’t even done. He’d gone off after his dawn performance, and now he was back!
Lord Mireden turned as Menolit marched out into the awning where people were watching his clip, and he offered the Drake a salmon burger.
“Caught this not five minutes ago. Burger?”
“For free?”
Menolit eyed the burger but took it because free was free, and the half-Giant flipped another cut of fish onto his grill. He’d brought a damn grill and was wearing his t-shirt as people stared at him. Menolit had had to get it specially tailored!
The bastard genius of it all. He wasn’t even hiding what he was doing; the [Lord] winked at Menolit and the crowd.
“Well, I’m not offering any condiments besides salt and pepper. That’s how you know it’s free. The fish doesn’t need it, anyways. Fresh. With some of Baker Garry’s free bread. A loaf big enough to feed a half-Giant, which I was quite touched by so I elected to share the wealth. Doesn’t cost me a copper coin. Anyone want some Quillfish?”
 
——
 
You had [Marketing Strategists] tearing out their neck-spines trying to deal with him. The half-Giant had presence. He had style. He had gold and a damn aura and levels. He’d defended Liscor…the one thing he didn’t have was full household name recognition, and that connection to the inn was hindering him.
He could be beaten! They juuust had to find his weak spot. His vulnerability. Like stepping on little children, but no matter how many you pushed in front of him, he just helped them up and gave them bandaids!
The monster. Plus, he might have support from that inn, wherever it was! No one knew where The Wandering Inn might strike from next. Even the Watch Captain was compromised!
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara cuffed the protesting Drake from Zeres.
“Stop pushing children! If I catch one of you doing it again, I am arresting everyone here until the election’s over!”
She barked at the campaign team, who gave her offended looks. The Drake snorted smoke as she nodded at the Watch officers, who kicked the [Strategist] into a wagon for lockup. Then she rubbed at her face.
“These are not the mysteries I thought my new class would entail.”
“Well, until we get another Watch Captain, you’re stuck with us, Captain Zevara!”
Guardswoman Jerci shouted cheerfully, and the Watch chuckled. Zevara just rolled her eyes.
“I’m off on more cases. Senior Guardsman Lens not having any trouble?”
He was filling in at the Watch House in her district since Relc was on a day off. Everyone said that Lens was doing fine, so Zevara stomped off.
“People pushing children, stealing water—if I have to rescue another damn cat, I’ll kill someone.”
The things people came up with when they realized your entire job was to look into their delusions. After a moment, she came back.
“…Anyone check if it’s really Lens?”
Jerci gave Zevara a thumbs-up.
“I pinched his cheek in case it was a mask right before I left. He’s getting sort of annoyed by all the jokes.”
“Jokes, right…what else is on my docket?”
Zevara checked the list.
Water thievery. Someone trying to hire Liska? Missing dog. Prove the Brothers stole all the gems. Where is The Wandering Inn…
Zevara hadn’t been to the inn since her celebration. Well, she smiled to herself. At least she had some fun challenges.
This was not a story about Zevara either. Or Menolit. But as such things happened, like Kevins, a story about the Halfseekers was never just about them. Greater things were coming to Liscor, like storms on the horizon. Lightning amidst rain. But for now, Zevara investigated water thievery.
 
——
 
“I’m back. How much for water per gallon?”
The [Scribe] in City Hall gestured at Zevara helplessly as the person at the front of the line leaned on the counter. The Watch Captain rubbed at her head.
“Huh. That’s a new one for me. Excuse me, sir!”
She headed over, and the figure turned. He was a Garuda, probably from Pallass, and leaned on the counter.
“Yes? Watch Captain, am I in trouble?”
“Not at all. Just—are you trying to buy water? From our wells?”
“No, not at all. Just out there.”
He gestured to the window, and Zevara and the [Scribe] turned.
“…You mean from the Floodplains of Liscor?”
“Yep. I asked yesterday, but no one gave me a straight answer and told me to come back. So, here I am. How much per gallon? Per barrel?”
The Watch Captain hesitated. You know, this was a great question. Maybe he needed it for some project? She eyed him.
“Do you have a wagon team or, uh, that many caravans or Chests of Holding, sir?”
“Nope. Just a bag.”
He indicated his side, and she scratched at her neck spines.
“Well then, we’re not going to charge you to take water outside the city, sir. It’s not exactly the cleanest. You could probably get well water in most places without any problems. Too much might be an issue…[Scribe], do you disagree?”
“No, Watch Captain. Just, given how odd a request it is…I think you’re the same man who asked about taking water from the Merchant’s Guild, sir?”
“I went around, sure. It’s a nice city. I wouldn’t want to take water without asking. So…it really is free?”
The Garuda man seemed genuinely perplexed, and Zevara wondered if Pallass charged for drinking water. Probably. She smiled.
“Free. Thank you, sir, for your patience and time. Just watch out for monsters as you get the water. Oh, and undead! They’re more placid now due to circumstances, but there are areas with strong death magic; that has to do something to the water. At least the taste.”
He smiled as well.
“Well then. I thank you for your time and consideration, Watch Captain. It is a fair answer and one of generosity. I shall not forget it.”
He bowed, wing-arm to his chest, and she nodded back, off-put by his formality. Then, with a twinkle in his eyes, he turned to the [Scribe].
“Very well, thank you for your time. Just one more question. Where can I buy barrels around here? If those are free, I’d love to know.”
They were not free, but he got directions to where he’d be able to purchase barrels that an [Innkeeper] or [Tavern Owner] might use and strolled off. Zevara scratched at her head. She did represent the concerns of the city, and Watch Commander Venim was feeding her intelligence—they had actual intelligence now—
But even so, water?
She supposed it was because other people had poked around the wells too. Ylawes Byres, apparently, and Lord Mireden…
The Wandering Inn. Which reminded her, one of the next items on her list was intelligence from the Free Queen’s Listeners. That she wasn’t supposed to have. That she actually admitted it was them and that she had passed the information onto Liscor’s Council showed how much the Antinium and the current Council got along. And, perhaps, how much the charade of pretending they didn’t know what each side was up to felt silly.
The two groups were closer to allies in actual truth, perhaps, than they’d ever been. The Free Queen had proposed amending some aspects of their agreement without the Walled Cities overseeing the negotiations. But that would only occur if the current Council survived their elections.
Changes weighing on this showdown in Liscor’s populace. Regardless, since the Free Queen had no idea where the inn was, she’d said to watch out.
Someone was trying to hire Liska. And Zevara had put it on her list, because, well…
It sounded really funny.
 
——
 
“Liska Coresh Silverfang.”
“Ugh, I hate that when you say it out loud.”
“…Your name?”
“Yeah. I was thinking I should change it. Get a real last name instead of Silverfang, because I don’t really remember my tribe. Liska…Hydrabones. That’d be cool. Liska Hydrabones. Or how about Liska Slickfur? Wait, that’s bad.”
The interviewers had to take a moment. This was already an unusual occurrence because Liska was a VIP-candidate, a rarity when they normally interviewed people with stringent protocols to ensure quality. She was a shoe-in for citizenship as long as she passed basic criteria…but still.
She was so young. A Dullahan on Pallass’ panel was trying to write down Liska’s proposed names until he decided it wasn’t worth doing. A Drake next to the Dullahan leaned over and spoke into the microphone.
“We’d need your actual name for, ah, citizenship, Miss Liska.”
“Oh, okay. Um. Liska Silverfang’s good. Yeah.”
“Your, uh, level, Miss Liska?”
“Uh…Level 32.”
“Level 32?”
It was practically twice her age! The panel glanced at each other, and one of their special members, an Eye of Pallass, sat up slightly in his chair. He nodded as he ticked something on his clipboard. Liska wavered.
“Er, shoot, I’m not supposed to really talk about my level and class. I think it’s 32? I lose track!”
“Of—of your level?”
“Well, it keeps going up. I thought after the Goblin King it’d stop, but nope! I swear, I pee hard enough and I just level.”
Liska folded her arms, sighing. The panel was now in debate, and they whispered to each other.
“Is she lying?”
“Detect truth says not…but it’s telling the truth about her forgetting her levels.”
“This is inane. Are we supposed to let her into Pallass? And give her citizenship, a house? We have waiting lists with actual [Merchants] on them who don’t have this level of treatment or priority!”
“Are they Level 30+ at seventeen years old?”
“They’re not from the inn.”
The panel members were interrupted by the Eye of Pallass, who spoke in a gravelly voice; he was a Gnoll familiar with the situation.
“This young woman is hand-picked by multiple officials of Pallass. Treat her like you would normally. [Enforce Mundanity].”
At his words, the panel blinked, and they felt more professional, more…relaxed. One of them tapped the speaking stone.
“Miss Liska, please be accurate with your answers. This is a serious matter, thank you.”
Liska jumped and sat up nervously as they frowned sternly at her.
“Right, sorry. I, uh—I didn’t know it was such a big deal.”
“Citizenship in the City of Inventions is highly sought after by cities in our aegis, Miss Liska. It is not guaranteed and very prestigious.”
“Whoa, really? I thought I was in trouble. Are you…maybe I should get my brother. This is a pretty big deal, right?”
The panelists wavered, and the Skill slipped, but the Eye of Pallass spoke smoothly, growling into the speaking stone with a smile for Liska.
“[Please Relax], Miss Liska. This is an excellent opportunity for you and your family. Your older brother, Ishkr, I believe? He has—declined our offer, but we can certainly inform him if you accept our citizenship offer. There are perks to our program, such as the housing lottery.”
Her ears perked up, and she sat up.
“What, an entire house? For free? Do I have to pay rent?”
“Not at all.”
“I’ve got a room at the inn, and food’s free, but a house. I could bring friends over. Have a party. Bring my…”
Liska hesitated. One of the panelists made a note and handed it to a flunkie.
“Can you bring a file on Miss Liska over? A more complete one. I have her Liscorian record, but run this through one of our [Investigation Specialists].”
Presumably the Eye of Pallass had all her files, but he wasn’t sharing. The panel continued after a moment.
“Class?”
“Er, [Doorgnoll].”
“Is that your exact class or general?”
“G-general.”
“Can you list your location of birth, affiliations, and cities or tribes of residence hitherto your current one? And jobs or classes obtained?”
“What, all of them? Okay…”
Nervously, she did, and the panelists found she was an unremarkable candidate in their eyes, especially for this prestigious position. However, her level and class…they muttered amongst themselves as Liska shifted.
“If you were admitted into Pallass, what would you say your contribution to the city would be, Miss Liska?”
“I dunno. I open and close the [Door of Portals] a lot. I’m really good at that. I guess I could man the gates? That’s a door.”
They stared at her. One of the [Interviewers] coughed.
“Miss Liska, in your free time, what do you like to do?”
“I dunno. Eat? Sleep? Go out and party?”
“Do you…have any hobbies? Any artistic passions?”
“I like Tales of Adventure and Woe. And watching the scrying orb! Did you see the comedy show on Sir Relz and Noass’ channel last night? I think those two are idiots, but they come out with some good stuff now and then. I turned it off when Noass did his special on ‘Things I Hate’. Boooring.”
Liska seemed to be aware she was losing the panel and flushed under her fur. Her confidence and swagger that availed her well when she was at work was vanishing here in this official space with the glass window between her and her interviewers. It was meant to make her feel small, and she was, in the end, just a young woman.
All her interviewers were twice her age at least. One panelist gave Liska a sympathetic, if searching, smile.
“Miss Liska, can you tell us…anything that would substantially contribute to Pallass in any meaningful way aside from your class?”
“Well…no. Sorry. I’m not a Lyonette, let alone Erin.”
The name of the [Innkeeper] made the panelist shift. They read their notes. One covered the speaking stone, and they whispered.
“That’s a no from me.”
“And me.”
“Agent, what are we looking for?”
The Eye of Pallass was frowning. Agent Zemize had told him to pursue this line of inquiry, but she was all over Troydel and the Earther connection…he didn’t have to back her. Struck by a thought, he tapped the speaking stone.
“Miss Liska, I have a question. Regarding the Goblin King…”
Her expression grew instantly guarded.
“I can’t, uh, talk about it. I don’t know anything. I wasn’t there for most of it.”
He’d expected that. The other panelists just regarded him, highly skeptical; most didn’t even believe it had been the real Goblin King. Even the agent, with all of his intelligence and reports, felt skeptical. But he went on.
“I won’t ask for those details. Just…you were there when the Goblin King emerged, were you not? I have you, Alchemist Saliss, Magus Grimalkin, Ishkr, Witch Thallisa all listed as engaging the Goblin King before he appeared on the scrying orb. Is that correct?”
Even a ‘Numbtongue’, a Hobgoblin, but that wasn’t pertinent here. Liska rubbed at the side of her head.
“Yeah, I think so. It’s all a blur. It’s not like we stopped him. He went through us like…like…”
“A hot knife through butter?”
One of the panelists suggested. Liska frowned.
“I dunno, I’ve never tried that. But really fast. I didn’t do a thing, really. I tried my Skills, but he just tossed me. Then my head turned into a pancake, and I would have been dead except for Saliss. That’s all I did.”
Again, the sheer incredulity of the panel pressed down on Liska, and she hunched her shoulders. The agent frowned. That was what he was curious about. She didn’t seem to be like the others. She didn’t have some background of subterfuge or training like the [Princess], she was no adventurer…
“Well, that ties nicely into my question, Miss Liska. May I ask…if you knew the Goblin King, a horrific monster—let’s say, just for the purposes of visualizing this—if you knew he was coming, why didn’t you run? You were by the [Door of Portals]. Reports have you locking it down. You could have fled and locked it from the other side, couldn’t you? Why would you stay? You’re no combat class.”
It was a good question. He suspected the answer was that she’d panicked, been needed to operate the door, or someone had told her to. The panelists glanced at the agent, and Liska frowned.
“Why?”
“Yes, Miss.”
She sat there, thinking for longer than it seemed she should have. As if the question were particularly confusing or perhaps too odd? Because when Liska looked up, she frowned and spread her paws.
“I dunno. I guess I didn’t think about it.”
Now there was incredulous laughter from the panel.
“You didn’t think about the Goblin King, Miss? As in, it wasn’t the actual…Goblin King.”
Liska replied somewhat uneasily.
“No, it was him. I was scared so bad I think I peed myself. But…I dunno. Ishkr kept telling me to go, but I couldn’t. Not if it was him.”
“Why not, Miss Liska? Fear? It’s quite understandable.”
The Agent of Pallass sat back in his seat, and she responded clearly.
“No, because I knew if he got out, he’d start killing people. Like, my city. Or Pallass or…there’s no door that could stop him. He could go anywhere, even rip open the door, I thought. So someone had to try to stop him. Just…try. Even if it only helped a little bit.”
She cast around in the sudden silence.
“You know?”
The interviewing panel sat there, and Liska grew embarrassed and uneasy, as if she’d answered the question poorly. But the assorted members—one of each species, Drake, Gnoll, Garuda, and Dullahan—glanced at the Agent of Pallass, then the truth stone shining white in front of them.
Then they saw the reason she was here. Several of them marked items on their checklists. After a moment, one of the panelists asked in a far friendlier voice—
“Miss Liska. Pallass has room for everyone to move ever upwards, ever higher. We’ve even been known to elevate outstanding members into the Walled Nobility. It is highly, highly rare, but there have been two cases this millennia! You may be familiar with one—Grand Strategist Chaldion. With that said, do you envision a path forwards for yourself in your class that is greater than where it is now?”
It was a question they asked all people, and Liska’s face lit up as if this, ironically, was the easiest question.
“Oh yeah! I can definitely see myself hitting Level 40. Level 50 sounds crazy, but I want to level!”
“And what would a [Doorgnoll] class give you, Miss Liska? More…doorknobs?”
They were having trouble with her class, so Liska smiled and sat back.
“Nah. More places for the door to go, and I can charge it up with mana!”
“You can charge a door with mana? Someone else’s Skill?”
“Sure can. And block whomever I want! I used to train on that asshole [Lord]. You know, the one with the face like a block of stone?”
“Lord…?”
The agent hit the speaking stone.
“You mean Lord Tyrion Veltras?”
“Yep. I mostly lost, but I got him a few times! I figure that I could probably beat him a lot more if he doesn’t cheat and get help. Plus, there was this doorguy from Invrisil I met, and we got to talking, and I think I could hold off a lot of stuff if people tried to break down my door. You know, reinforce it? He said he could hold off a full battering ram, and I’d like to try that! On my time off. And…I dunno, that’s the big stuff. I get tired sometimes, but I’d like to hit ten thousand people through the door.”
“Ten thousand people through the [Door of Portals]?”
“Yeah. I mean, I’d hate working that much, but it’s a good number. Round. Sounds impressive. Ishkr said he’d buy me all the food I could eat at Wishdrinks if I did it.”
The panel regarded each other. Now, they were giving each other subtle nods or thumbs up under the table. This…this was a teenage prodigy. One with ties to the inn. This was an asset.
The agent himself was nodding as he smiled down at Liska.
“Miss Liska, I think I can speak for the panel when we say we’re pleased to accept you as a citizen of Pallass.”
“Oh. Whoa! That’s cool? But what if I’m, you know, Liscorian? And I work for Lyonette, and I dunno if I can just change jobs.”
He smiled smoothly as the others gasped a bit.
“Dual citizenship is acceptable, Miss Liska. As is working at an inn! It only requires an oath to the city and some paperwork, which I can certainly have someone fill out for you—because of your unique class and level, we are prepared to offer you not only a house, but a stipend. Gold, connections, exclusive perks—”
She was brightening up, eyes growing round, and he bet the inn didn’t pay her as much as it should. Or give her luxury treatment; they didn’t want to spoil her. But if it meant getting her on their side…The Wandering Inn might object, but it couldn’t beat Pallass in a gold-pissing match for pampering someone. Heh. Heheheheh.
Wait. The Eye of Pallass paused and blinked.
His [Warning: False Assumption] Skill had just gone off. Why had it…? He made a hurried note, rattled, as Liska bounced slightly in her chair.
“Really? My own house? Can I—I’ve got a mother who lives by herself, but she’s in her own place. Could I get, like, a separate room or something for her? And I could hire a [Carer], right?”
“Absolutely, Miss Liska. We could get you two homes—and help for family. And your brother.”
“Whoa. Really? You’re sure?”
The panel was nodding, and the agent was checking the time. They’d gotten Liska during one of her breaks; even if the inn was aware of what they were doing, they wouldn’t get a chance to talk to her before the panel swore her in at this point, and citizenship was more than just a word. You could enforce loyalties sworn if you wanted to get unpleasant, but mostly—it was about making her feel Pallassian. He stood.
“Why don’t we get you a copy of our national oath and we can get your paperwork done, Miss Liska? You can tour a place for potential homes if you can extend your break?”
“No way. I could ask Asgra to take over—you’re sure? This isn’t a joke?”
She was sold. His Skill, [Lowered Guard], had multiple uses in a fight and in these situations. The Agent of Pallas turned with a triumphant smile to the panel, not anticipating any pushback because they saw what he did.
But to his surprise, and then horror, the Drake panelist had a hand raised.
“Excuse me, agent, I’m so sorry, Miss Liska. But we might have to, ah, reverse our decision.”
Two of the panelists were nodding, and one, the Garuda, wavered and began to argue with them. The agent turned as Liska’s smile faltered.
“Wait, why?”
The Gnoll Eye of Pallass strode over to the others and whispered as they cut the speaking stone again.
“What’s going on? You can see she’s an asset!”
He hadn’t expected them to disagree with him; most people didn’t! But the committee were sighing over something. The Drake pushed the paper in front of her towards the agent with disgust.
“We just caught this—good thing too. Look.”
He stared down at the piece of paper, then up at her.
“Ridiculous. Approve her!”
“Are you mad?”
All but one of them gave him a look as if he were talking crazy. The Eye of Pallass whirled.
“She’s a Level 32 asset from the inn!”
“And this is Pallass. We have standards. I can check, agent, but—excuse me, Miss Liska?”
The Drake keyed the speaking stone and smiled with sudden, icy politeness at Liska. The young Gnoll woman’s wagging tail slowed as she picked up on something being off. Or recognized it.
“Yeah? What’s wrong?”
“We have, ah, just one issue with your file on record. Could you clarify for the panel a few counts of public indecency leading to your arrest with the Watch? We do not, normally, count small misdemeanors or past actions. But it says in your file…”
The Drake woman drew back slightly as if reading something, then peered at Liska, whose ears drooped. The Agent of Pallass was biting his tongue. The [Interviewer] coughed, then smiled.
“Tell us about your significant other, Miss Liska.”
The Agent of Pallass saw Liska hesitate, then fold her arms and clam up. He turned to the panelists, and only the Garuda shot him a pained glance. The Eye of Pallass opened his mouth to argue, then furiously began writing notes in his clipboard.
An Ancestors-damned Saliss of Lights. A second one. We have one shot at her, and this damn city is going to toss her back. 
He stared at his clipboard, then at Liska. Then the Eye of Pallass had the thought for the first time in his head—
How many are we losing like her?
It was an uncomfortable thought. He stood after a moment and strode out of the interviewing booth; there was nothing to be gained here. He needed a word with Zemize.
She was not going to be happy.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara didn’t, obviously, get to enter Pallass, but she snuck into the portal room where Liska was working. She had a feeling The Wandering Inn was close by. All her instincts told her that Lyonette had pulled a fast one, and if she maybe…tried the other doors?
But she was smiling because she wanted to see about the Liska thing first. There were two scenarios: either she said no, which would be funny, or she said yes, in which case, drama!
That was Zevara’s assumption, but when she saw Liska sitting on her couch, mechanically sending people from city to city, the Watch Captain’s grin faltered.
“Er, hello, Liska.”
“Hey, Captain Zevara. Need to go anywhere? Need to find the inn?”
Liska didn’t turn to her. She was staring at the ground. As if weighed down by something. Shame, perhaps. She was so uncharacteristically unhappy that Zevara hesitated, then coughed.
“I, uh…I was actually searching for you. I, erm, heard you got an offer to live in Pallass.”
The [Doorgnoll] twitched slightly. She turned away.
“Everyone to Esthelm, go. Wait for your turn to enter. Oh, I didn’t know it was that important. Ishkr says I was stupid for agreeing to it, but it’s fine. I failed the interview.”
“You…failed the interview? How?”
That surprised Zevara. Unless the people interviewing her were idiots or Liska had told them to eat their tails, Zevara was sure they’d accept her given her level alone! Liska didn’t answer for a long while, and Zevara’s new [Detective] instincts began to ping her.
Wait. Wouldn’t they do a check on her? What was the most controversial thing about Liska? Not her attitude. Oh…
“I guess I’m just too nasty to live in a Walled City. It’s okay. I’ve got my rooms.”
The girl was facing a wall now. She wiped at her face.
“Everyone to Celum, go. Wait your turn—”
There was a slight catch in her voice. Zevara saw people moving past them without glancing at Liska. She hesitated, then tapped on the barrier that protected Liska. The [Forcewall] opened. Zevara sat down on the couch.
“Hey. I know I’ve…I know the Watch has arrested you before.”
“Yeah.”
“It’s the law we’re enforcing. We don’t—it’s my job to enforce the rules, even if I disagree—I can interpret—”
The young women didn’t respond. She called out another destination, and Zevara lowered the claw she was reaching out with. She sat for a long moment, then coughed.
“Pallass is full of idiots if they turn you down. I’d approve you in a heartbeat if I was interviewing you for Liscor.”
Liska half-turned. Her drooping features turned into the smallest smile.
“That’s a nice lie, Watch Captain.”
“I don’t lie, Liska. I mean it. That was the dumbest decision I think they’ve made since General Edellein sent 2nd Army into the High Passes. And maybe I am the fool, because I—the Watch—why are we wasting time and gold hauling you in unless you actually hit someone with a brick?”
That was a good question. Zevara blinked, and Liska blinked, and it felt like they both heard the question in the open air for the first time. They stared at each other, and then Liska swivelled around a bit. She peered at Zevara curiously.
“Um…everyone to Riverfarm, go! Do something. Do you mean that?”
“I think I do. At least, I’m questioning it. That’s my class.”
Zevara was thinking, but it sounded right. Liska hesitated, then glanced at the door.
“Now to Pallass. I guess I got fooled by them talking about how fancy it is. Everyone wants to move to Pallass. My mother used to talk about it when we were small. That’s sort of why I got excited. She lives in this really crummy place, even though it’s nicer now. And Ishkr does all the work so…”
Ah, her mother. Zevara’s treacherous memory pulled up a file. She closed her eyes.
“Yes. That’s very considerate of you, Liska.”
The girl pulled her knees up to her chest.
“I know she’s sick, and it’s her fault. Lyonette’s planning a war to help Tessa. Not a real war, but it’s gonna be big. Do you…do you think maybe if she can help Tessa, she could help my mother too?”
Ah. There was a question that made Zevara pause. She didn’t know. But it seemed to her that despite Liska’s unhappiness and the silly nature of her own ‘investigation’ that had been thoughtless…it seemed to her they’d asked one truly important question. She placed a hand on Liska’s shoulder and smiled.
“You know what, Liska? That’s a fine question to ask. Do you know where the inn is? Let’s ask Lyonette.”
The [Doorgnoll] hesitated.
“But the door! I’ve gotta keep moving people through!”
“Let them wait. If you don’t matter, then Pallass can wait all day.”
Zevara shot that one at one of the [Guards] on duty, and the Drake lifted his claws at her as if to say, ‘who said that? I’m not an idiot’.
So, the Watch Captain rose, and Liska led her to a door. They marched down the hallway towards an inn. Little things, small things. After a much more understanding [Princess] had asked for more details from Ishkr and sent Liska back with a milkshake and orders to get Asgra to fill in if necessary, Liska was perked up. She sat, smiling, as she directed people through the door to every city except for Pallass for twenty minutes.
Zevara sat with her. After a long moment, the [Detective] coughed.
“Well, uh, Liska?”
“Yeah? Long enough or should I keep them waiting more?”
“What? No, no. I’m not in charge here. Not my jurisdiction. I was just wondering…would you introduce me to your, ah, girlfriend?”
Liska nearly choked on her drink. Zevara took a nervous breath. She meant everything she said, always. She just hoped that in the course of her investigations, she didn’t have to kiss anyone.
And this moment? These little events, the quiet day?
All of it was just…chance meetings on the wind. Events that interconnected and wove themselves ahead of the coming storm.
A prequel.
 
——
 
So what was actually coming?
Lord Mireden Raithland stripped off his t-shirt and dressed himself in his magical robes. Then he walked back into the inn where Liska and Zevara were chatting together and a huge crowd of people waiting for Pallass were grumbling. But the Gnoll girl just barked at them.
“Pallass pisses me off, so it’s once an hour, not every five minutes! You want to take it up with the boss?”
“Yeah!”
She jerked a thumb at her chest.
“You’re looking at her. Eat shit!”
Lord Moore smiled as she caught his eye.
“Oh, hey, Lord Mireden. You want Pallass? I’ll do it for you.”
“No, not at all. Just Liscor. And I’m perfectly content to wait; I’ll be doing a lot of that. Thank you.”
He took a place in line, then tapped his watch. A magical image, clear as crystal, appeared before him. A few people in line turned at the crisp sound coming from the watch until Lord Mireden tuned it to his hearing only. When they asked to hear, he changed it back.
Wistram News Network, Channel 1. It was still a Pallassian-dominated broadcast; there had been lots of talks to change the nation and location of the broadcast, but because Sir Relz and Noass had started the broadcast, there was now industry and levels here, so Wistram was loath to go elsewhere.
They had a few Wistram-exclusive broadcasts from their academy, and they were flirting with ‘buying’ a channel from the competition and adding it to their network, but the big ones were still Pallassian.
Channel 1 News did Sir Relz and the disgraced Noass hosting big events, political and trade news. The ‘adult’ channel. Lord Moore knew for a fact that everyone in the inn and most young people preferred Channel 2.
Channel 2, which was ‘entertainment’, but Drassi would still cover news, just more cultural stuff. She had on high-level people and hosted a much wider range of activities like cooking or gossip on events; a different kind of news that you could disparage, but was no less important.
There were more channels now, of course. Channel 3 was just music from every continent. Channel 4 was sports…Channel 5 was magical lessons from Wistram, a new addition.
One look at Magus Rievan teaching classes and Moore changed channels, commenting to people in line.
“They have to replace that man. Just utterly uncharismatic, no? Oh, what’s this new segment?”
Channel 1 had a little description of upcoming segments as Sir Relz broke the day’s news: it was raining toads in Desonis, a magical storm had begun in northern Terandria, Bloodfeast Raiders strike in Izril, and so on. He pointed at a broadcast titled, ‘I Hate Everything with Noass’.
One of the Gnolls in line rolled her eyes.
“Utter trash. I watched it with my husband yesterday, and he loved it. It’s just thirty minutes of that Drake insulting something he hates.”
Lord Moore’s intelligence-gathering about this timeline had led him to believe Noass had been in trouble for insulting everyone but Drakes just a bit ago. It seemed the Drake had turned that into an asset. He grimaced.
“Let’s see what Drassi is talking about.”
The door to Liscor opened as he watched the news, and Lord Mireden stepped into Liscor. He wandered the city, occasionally stopping to talk to someone, but really, killing time.
He wasn’t the only one. It appeared school was out, because Lord Mireden halted reflexively as someone ran past him.
“Visma, watch out! Don’t hit anyone!”
A familiar gaggle of kids ran past Moore, and he raised his voice.
“Careful where you’re running! Don’t go into the street!”
The giggling Drake girl barely seemed to hear him. She had a birthday present in her clawed hands. A wand for magic classes. And she was currently firing spells from it.
They looked like bolts of lightning in arrow form, but they weren’t even [Lightning Arrows]; the illusions were Tier 0 and bounced off panes of glass and the ground as pedestrians recoiled, then shouted at the kids.
“I’m Archmage Amerys! Fear me!”
“Nuh uh! I’m the King of Duels! Hah! Take that!”
Ekirra slashed at her with a sword. For all his warnings, he was more in danger of hitting one of the kids and turning their play into a crying episode, but the other kids were just as enthusiastic.
Even the white Gnoll girl was running around with a broom she was using to swat at people. Lord Moore smiled at Mrsha as she teamed up with a Drake girl to attack the boys.
“We’re [Witches]! Run or we’ll sweep you!”
Rinni was shouting as she and Mrsha chased Golly and the other children, who yelled.
“No fair! You can’t broom us! We’re Named-rank adventurers!”
“Then fight!”
Children at play. The funniest part was one of the Drake boys shouting.
“I’m Saliss! I’m gonna explode!”
He tried to rip off his pants and got tackled—meanwhile, Visma was having the most fun. She chased the other kids, screaming.
“I’m gonna lightning you all! I’m invincible!”
She was laughing as the rain amplified the very, very weak lightning magic, giving the spells enough energy to cause fake sparks and make hair rise ever-so-slightly.
And that was it. The half-Giant walked on, then glanced up. He blinked into the rainy skies and frowned. Then shaded his eyes.
“Hmmm?”
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa was done fishing after quite some time with Relc and more fun than she’d thought. But she had cast a warming spell to heat up, and she was wondering if she could hint to him that some snuggling would not go amiss.
She was watching him brag about his biggest catch to Bird, with whom he apparently had a fishing contest.
Something was bugging the Archmage. She couldn’t tell what. She kept glancing upwards towards the sky. It was like…a premonition.
Or…she peered out the window, then unlatched it and poked her head out. Squinted upwards.
“Apprentice? Is there something odd with the weather? A storm is coming, I think.”
“Really? Well, if that’s so, I’ll tell Miss Lyonette, Master. Don’t get wet, and close the window, please? How bad is it?”
“I don’t…know.”
Valeterisa wasn’t sure about her instincts. It wasn’t like she predicted the weather. But this…she squinted upwards. Was someone sending bad weather this way? It seemed aggressive. But whatever it was, it wasn’t actually here. It was like energy before a storm.
She pulled her head inside, and those two were the only ones who noticed anything at first. At least, in Liscor.
 
——
 
Four hundred miles south, in Pallass, Magus Grimalkin was reading a book on intimacy. It had a lot of detailed positions in it, and he didn’t know why he had it in his collection; probably to study the various forms of species. He was reading it, uh, for different reasons these days.
Even now, the Sinew Magus couldn’t believe his luck. And he was highly distracted; Lady Pryde had been discussing the benefits of their various exercise regimens with him, and they had gotten onto the subjects of hot tubs for invigorating the muscles. Spas.
And private baths. She had vouchsafed he might wish to partake of one, and he had indicated that he’d love to set up a test group to compare that with hot baths and saunas and public spas. Lady Pryde had given him a buffet from her aura that he had begun to pick up meant he was thinking too academically. She proposed an alternative. What if they had a bath in a very un-scientific sense?
He had, of course, agreed. Now, the Drake was distracting himself, but he kept glancing out the window. Peering at the blue skies and frowning.
“Feels like a storm. But why?”
The fact that he’d even picked up on it despite the tracksuit on the ground and Lady Pryde splashing around in the heating bathwater was commendable on his part. The Sinew Magus went to the windows and gazed out of them. Then he cracked one open.
“Grimalkin? Prideful as I am, I don’t quite intend for us to have an audience. And the bag stays on.”
Pryde called at him, and he hurriedly shut the windows and blinds, mindful of the moment. But he kept peering at the window until he was fully distracted.
“Strange…”
 
——
 
There was a storm, actually. Not just the one forming on Terandria’s southern coast; that was a magical storm that would shoot down southwards at speed, soon. One of those would have made it all so much easier.
This was a more mundane storm, not worthy of any astrological note, except for people caught right under it. Mere lightning and rain, no swirling mana that could produce a magical storm that created tornadoes and waterspouts with ease.
But a storm was all you needed, even a mundane one. It just had to have the right components. Lightning flashing down, whipping winds, the howl of rain as it bathed the Kingdom of Medain in water.
Even on the coast, Chandrarians loved the rain. They stood in it, smiling, and the crackling lightning boomed strongest on the dry continent. One bolt forked downwards, splitting, and the peal of thunder roared across the High King’s palace.
Another one cracked down, power from the heavens. A charge in the clouds—it was all very scientific, and Earth had figured it all out, but for all their grand talk, there was something primordial about this force.
In this world, it was both electricity and magic. Lightning was infused with a kind of potential that few elements were. Even a wildfire’s hottest couldn’t come close to it. Upon this one element, another world had powered everything. Faster than anything Humans had made.
Brilliant—the flash that lit the blue-black skies. The second bolt traced a zig-zag line across the sky, arcing towards the top of the High King’s palace.
She caught it before it could touch the roof. People watching from the streets gazed upwards, mouths open as the lightning bolt froze in the skies. The High King watching from one of his balconies slowly retreated inside.
The Archmage laughed. She held the lightning in one hand as her magic transmuted it. Absorbing the killing power, redirecting it. Using the power to hurl herself at a speed nothing could match. She pivoted and threw the bolt of lightning across the sea. Until it was a blinding ray vanishing into the horizons in moments. And she?
She was gone with it. Not as fast as it would have been alone, streams of power trailing behind her, zig-zagging northwards, but flying. Her every step thunder, her green hair crackling with magic.
And her eyes, like electricity themselves, gleamed. The Archmage of Lightning became a bolt crossing blue-skies, an impossible flicker that made [Sailors] far below her peek up—but by the time their heads rose, she was already gone.
That had been this morning.
By midday, she had already hit land.
She passed Pallass two seconds after Magus Grimalkin closed the window.
 
——
 
Even with the power of the storm in her, crossing the ocean wasn’t easy. Archmage Amerys had to slow down once she reached Zeres, and she navigated well around it; they could detect her.
They probably had detected her, but what were they going to do about it? She blasted past the City of Waves before their alarm spells had finished ringing. And she kept going.
It was all about the storms. She moved from lightning front to front—that was the fastest way to travel. Across the Great Plains, into a huge thunderhead—out of it as Gnolls gazed up at her.
The Weatherfur Tribe. She paused just long enough to signal she meant no harm, and the [Shamans] raised their staffs—onwards.
Laughing as magic drained out of her. This was reckless, even for her. She hadn’t done this since Flos had been awake the first time. They’d probably forgotten she could do it. Thought it was some ritual.
All it took was a mana potion and the will to dance. 
Her feet were tired. Her body wasn’t healed from her long captivity in Wistram for all her rehabilitation. But this was the best exercise; her form arced as she appeared in the air past two surprised Wyverns with riders.
A woman in green robes, her hair floating around her, posing like a dancer mid-step—then her body crackled, and she became an arc of lightning that flashed onwards.
A mile a step. Or thereabouts. A lot of steps, then—so much slower than it should be. Barely three times as fast as a [Lightning Bolt] spell, really.
That was the secret. Lightning magic was slow. It was nothing like the speed of real lightning. Even [Grand Lightning] wasn’t as powerful as a true bolt from the skies. Even with all her magic, Amerys was a woman.
In her fifties, aged, not the heaviest, especially after being imprisoned for a year and change, thank-you-very-much, but so much matter. Lightning was just particles. Even with her mastery of it, she was so much slower than a true bolt…
But she could still do this. 
She slowed once for the Bloodfields of Izril. Because she’d never seen them before. She’d either gone around the High Passes due to the danger or just not needed to go this far north. The woman admired the splotch of red from above, then she saw the storm gathered around the basin.
“The Floodplains of Liscor. At last.”
She drank the second mana potion and tossed the vial down. The empty glass glittered and spun towards the Bloodfields. Amerys took another step, and then she was there.
 
——
 
A jagged streak of energy crossed into the air above Liscor, and Archmage Valeterisa looked up from her meal of seared fish. She turned.
“Apprentice? You felt that. What—?”
 
——
 
Lord Mireden turned off his watch. He gazed upwards as a spot of green appeared amongst the clouds, suddenly lit up by a flash of lightning headed horizontally across the sky.
He reached for his staff.
 
——
 
She’d actually overshot her target. When the Archmage of Lightning saw the city below her. She laughed.
“So this is Liscor! I must take a picture for Flos!”
Now, where was she? And that inn? It had vanished, but Amerys had a feeling she could find it. She sent tracer-magic in every direction; she and Mars had agreed it would be near Liscor, no matter what they were doing.
She hovered in the air then, panting. Smiling, floating downwards as the confused city began activating some alarms with no visible reason why.
There were no armies at the gates. No monsters coming from the waters. No breaches in the city.
So why…?
She was still just a speck in the sky, but as she fell to earth, she gathered her magic about her in preparation for what was to come, and it was both magic, aura, and her class.
They said of Archmage Eldavin that he was the greatest Archmage since Zelkyr, and perhaps that was true. She had never gained his measure and was wary of this stranger.
All Amerys knew was what she was. And her level.
She was Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. And her name was both truth and joke. Her skin was dark, tanned like Chandrar’s folk, and her hair was leaf-green, like the plants she had never seen before leaving her homeland. Her eyes glowed like a Golem’s or Drowned Woman’s when she was casting magic.
So they were always sparking. She wore the most traditional garb she had: The robes of the Archmage of Lightning. Cloud-patterned sky blue and silver clouds, mixed with the royal red of Terandria.
Now the air was charged around her, and lightning was sparking off the rain, flickering from spot to spot despite the impossibility of it. Below her, people in the city standing on carpets began to swear as static electricity shocked them out of nowhere.
The air was brightening. But at first, the Archmage just observed. Wishing she could see the Antinium Hive below…she focused on the ones on the walls. The countless peoples below her.
Drakes made such a fuss about the bug-people, and they all looked like insects to her. But her gaze was sweeping right and left.
“Strange. Does she have a guest? That Sinew Magus?”
She’d sworn she’d sensed another great spellcaster here. Amerys’ gaze passed down a street where a group of children were playing and stopped.
She fixed on a little Drake girl waving a wand and wearing what seemed like copies of her robes.
Could it be?
The little bolts of lightning. The gleeful way the girl leapt, as if she could fly—Amerys blinked in disbelief, but she had long known her legend.
So then she smiled and pointed down at the chance thing today. For such things mattered. Because of that, Amerys halted a moment and decided thusly it was now. She waited as the girl raised her wand.
 
——
 
Visma Hilcevr was laughing and chasing her friends, who kept shouting at her she wasn’t playing fair. But she knew she was right.
“I’m Amerys! Run! Run, cowards! I’ll fry you! Zap, zap!”
Her wand was out of magic from being used so much, but the girl didn’t care. She swung it down like she felt an Archmage would at Ekirra as he tried to dodge backwards, shouting. Her wand shone with the memory of magic—
Krakthoom.
The bolt of lightning, real lightning, touched down just off of Liscor’s walls, and Visma shrieked more in surprise than fear. She whirled and stared up at the storm.
Lightning? As a native, Visma knew that lightning during the spring rains was actually not that normal—but after that heart-pounding moment, she decided it was amazing.
“See? Fear my power!”
She shouted at Ekirra. He whined.
“My ears! That was loud!”
Ow.
Mrsha and the other Gnolls came over rubbing their ears. Visma stopped for a moment as Mrsha frowned upwards.
That’s weird. Lightning doesn’t normally come from the storms, right? The weather’s…off.
“Maybe it’s a summer storm now? Who cares? Run, run or I’ll zap you! [Lightning Bolt]!”
Visma threatened them, and Ekirra grumbled.
“I’m tired of running. You should run from us!”
“I don’t run from anyone! I’m Amerys! I said run—”
Visma swung her wand down to point it dramatically at Ek—
THWOOM.
This time, her heart definitely skipped a beat. The Drake girl flinched. Everyone cowered as another bolt of lightning touched down on Liscor’s other side.
“Whoa! That’s so close! Maybe it’s a bad storm? We’d better get inside!”
Kenva was nervous; Pallass sometimes had bolts of lightning hit the walls, but Visma was shouting. It was raining real hard suddenly. She squinted up at the sky.
“No! It’s proof! Look! I have the power!”
She held her wand up, and Mrsha produced her own wand to write.
No, something’s really weird. Visma, maybe it’s a magical storm. We might need to get inside.
“Don’t be a wet Gnoll, Mrsha!”
I am already.
Ser Dalimont appeared out of nowhere to speak.
“Miss Mrsha, my instincts also say something’s amiss. We may have to return to the inn, everyone.”
Visma wouldn’t hear it. She pointed her wand at the [Knight].
“Silence! I’m—”
Kkrooom.
This time, Visma remained frozen where she was. Everyone else did likewise. They were mid-flinch, all of them. Staring at her. At her wand. Visma’s earholes hurt. She gazed at the little wand, and Ser Dalimont’s eyes slid sideways.
“Mrsha. Did you help get Visma that wand? From the inn?”
Everyone turned to Mrsha, and she raised her paws.
Not me! I swear!
“It’s just a coincidence. Just swing it again, Visma.”
Kenva, the logical one, urged Visma. The Drake nodded. She lifted the wand tentatively and gave it a little shake. Just a tiny one. Not that she was afraid. Just…
Nothing happened. Everyone relaxed and smiled. Visma laughed nervously despite herself.
“Yeah. Hey! You ruined my best magic yet, Kenva! That was so cool! I just did this and—”
KRACKOOM.
Nobody moved. Visma stared at her wand as the world turned black and white. Then they gazed up. The little Drake girl didn’t know what she was looking for as her head craned up to the dark skies, but she knew it.
It wasn’t her.
There, hovering in the skies, so still they’d missed her as a mere blotch against the rain, was the woman. She hung in the air like an image in a painting, the wind failing to move her. Posing, one arm raised. The other grasping a tiny wand.
Like…one of Visma’s dolls, but so detailed that the [Puppeteer] knew it was not. The figure didn’t move as Mrsha slowly wrote in the air.
Dalimont? Inn, now. Everyone, come with me. Visma, Visma—
The girl didn’t hear her friend. This was a daydream or something. One where she could fly…only her heart was pounding way too hard. Still believing this was a lie, Visma raised her hand and waved the wand once, tentative.
High in the skies, the Archmage of Lightning moved. The air flashed, and Visma lost sight of the world for a second.
A bolt of lightning struck the waters a thousand feet past the walls. It illuminated the woman overhead, and she was suddenly in a different pose. She hung there, unmoving, and now…
Now it seemed as if she was gazing down. Straight at Visma. The girl eyed her wand. But it couldn’t be, right?
She waved it again—
Thunder rolled across Liscor, and citizens cried out. They hid under their canopies of mere cloth, gazing skyward. This was no storm they had ever known! Like Visma, their cries turned to silence.
They saw her.
But the Archmage of Lightning had only eyes for the girl. They held each other’s gazes as Visma held the wand in an arm suddenly trembling, as if it had all the power in the world.
The power to call down lightning. She was afraid to move it. She couldn’t tear her eyes from the woman above her.
“V-Visma?”
Kenva was covering her head, shaking. The Drake girl said nothing at all. The wind was raging around her. Rain spattered her dress from all sides, which was good because she was pretty sure she’d wet herself.
Then the Watch’s bells joined the alarms blaring from Liscor’s walls. Visma still did nothing. If she moved her arm—
“The inn! Everyone else, get to your homes!”
Ser Dalimont roared. He grabbed Visma up in one arm, and Mrsha was running as he held his shield up. That broke the spell. At least, between Visma and the Archmage. Visma could finally lower her arm as, above her, she heard faint laughter.
Then the lightning truly began to fall.
 
——
 
Amerys laughed. She hoped she hadn’t traumatized the little Drake girl. It was just a tribute to someone who remembered her name.
She hung in the air, sweeping her hair back, and her eyes followed the [Knight] in golden armor. And the white Gnoll girl. They were headed to the inn, she had no doubt. But first?
She snapped her finger, and six bolts of lightning hit the Floodplains. Amerys swept her arms around her, and a clear area opened in the storm now lashing Liscor. It shielded the city as she turned.
“Where are you, my dear colleague? Where is that inn?”
She drifted in the skies until her tracers came back. Her spells reported settlements across the Floodplains. But she was searching for concentrations of mana.
Not much anywhere. Low-level enchantments. A stronger source coming from one of the farms, but probably just an artifact or something.
A village of death mana? That was further out.
Interesting…there was powerful death magic in patches too, but naturalized. Where—?
Then she sensed it. A far, far stronger patch of mana. Amerys almost missed it. Despite knowing what she was looking for and her level, it was like the conclusion escaped her. She snapped her fingers.
“A—”
 
——
 
“—ha.”
She appeared in the air in a corner of the Floodplains of Liscor and cast around.
“Damn. No inn.”
The village was right there, though. And Amerys’ instincts were telling her…she narrowed her eyes.
“This is some Skill. I’m starting to second-guess myself even now. Does it get…stronger?”
The mana-detection spell was detecting less mana each passing second. That was unnerving. Something was beating her spellcasting? Adapting?
If so, she’d not get a second chance. The Archmage clapped her hands together. Then she dropped a bolt of lightning out of the clouds and threw it at the water.
A warning shot, all volume, not enough electricity to even kill the fish in the water. Amerys projected her voice using a spell.
“Residents of The Wandering Inn, I have come in peace! Not to make war; kindly show me where you reside. You and I know I am unlikely to find you twice if you keep your trick active. But I am the King of Destruction’s [Mage]. I have come from Chandrar. I beseech you: let me in. It is a meeting of stories. And what are we without stories?”
Her eyes glittered, and she spun in the air.
“I swear upon my magic I mean you no harm. I shall endanger this inn not at all! On Gazi’s eyes, I promise; on my [King]’s head, I swear it.”
She did like a bit of whimsy and elegance to her address. Once more, Amerys froze in the air like a dancer captured by time, and then her head twisted around. She smiled.
“Especially not with that aimed at me. Have we an accord?”
She stepped, and she was standing upon the waters. Now she could see someone. It was as if the young woman with red hair had appeared out of nowhere. She had a weapon in hand, and a [Knight] in golden armor stood next to her.
“Archmage Amerys. I don’t believe we have invited you. What do you want?”
From the first words the [Princess] spoke, Amerys loved her. And she thought—if anyone could have caught her [King]’s eyes when he was that age from noble, simpering Terandria, it might have been her.
Who had given one of Calanfer’s [Princesses] a spine? Amerys bowed.
“I have no invitation. Are they issued, then? For I would find one, if so.”
Lyonette du Marquin hesitated, then handed her weapon to Dame Ushar and folded her arms.
“No. But most of our guests do not come throwing lightning and bringing storms.”
The Archmage drew closer, her feet leaving ripples on the water as she skipped forwards, light as a floating bubble. She scrutinized the [Princess]’ face and understood.
Something is greatly wrong with her. But ‘twas impolite to comment on such matters at first meeting, so she did not address it.
“Yet. From all that I have witnessed and seen and heard tell of, the [Innkeeper] will bring more of my ilk in time. I envy you. I pity you.”
She meant every word. Her [King] had expressed the desire to visit. But the [Innkeeper] was gone. Amerys knew this. The inn was only half of her visit, and the smaller half by far.
 
——
 
Lyonette was shivering as Archmage Amerys approached. The closer they got, the more rattled she seemed, though not perhaps by Amerys’ level and nature alone. She raised one hand to her cheek, then lowered it.
“Your Highness, your daughter is safe and well along with Visma. Both your daughters are now in the [Garden].”
Ushar whispered, and Lyonette never took her eyes off the woman hovering there. Amerys’ robes were rising around her, and she looked like a character from a children’s book Lyonette had once read to Mrsha.
A true Archmage.
“What do you want, Archmage Amerys? Just admittance?”
“If that will grant me the phenomena of the inn, yes. If you can start the event without needing me to sit in the inn, then please, by all means begin. I shall not take unneeded time. Soon, my enemies will swarm, and I have business in Liscor.”
Her tone was refined, a court-mage’s, a scholar’s, but she had a directness as well that reminded Lyonette of adventurers. A Wistram-trained [Mage] who could fight actual battles. Lyonette felt her blood rushing. Something was wrong. She nearly touched her cheeks again.
“Inn phenomena?”
“Yes. What is the term? Ah, ‘Solstice Events’. I have heard it said that this inn provides miracles and tragedy. That it changes one’s life in a day. I wish to experience it myself. I hunger for change. Oblige me and I shall thank you with the King of Destruction’s generosity.”
“Eternal Throne.”
Ushar whispered. One of the King’s Seven knew the phrase ‘Solstice Event’? Lyonette wanted to laugh, but Amerys was drawing closer, and the rushing agony in her blood was getting worse. It wasn’t just the pain of her cracked soul…it was thrilling. Like the power to do anything. Agony of the same.
“We cannot just…create such moments, Archmage. Nor do I wish to draw more attention to the inn than I already have. The fact you found it is alarming.”
“Ah, well, my method will not work twice. Your Skill unnerves me, [Princess]. It is growing stronger. Will you at least let me walk the inn’s floor? Admire the [Garden of Sanctuary]? I confess, I will bring strife. I do not come in peace for some. Your inn I have vowed to spare, and I shall, though I know its location not at all, even now.”
The woman was peering at Lyonette’s face, and the [Princess] was gasping. She felt static-electricity buzzing from her teeth, across her cheeks.
“Your magic is too powerful, Archmage. If this is peace—”
Dame Ushar was staring at her in horror.
“Your Highness, your skin. The cracks—”
Only then did Lyonette realize lightning was crackling from the cracks in her face. Between the red, angry lines hidden by makeup, electricity was jolting outwards. Even across her cheeks, as if she were a copy of Amerys. The Archmage of Lightning drew back a step, and the terrible energy in Lyonette’s chest reduced.
“Fascinating. You are echoing my power. Truly, this inn would make him laugh. I only found this place due to my level, didn’t I? And it was Mars who had to point out the obvious. Mars.”
She shook her head ruefully, then held a hand up as Dame Ushar extended a shield between her and her ward.
“I withdraw my request. I can see my very presence is causing you agony, [Princess]. I hope your affliction can be cured; I am no worker of miracles. But I hear there is a great [Healer] in Izril. Perhaps she can aid you.”
“I intend to visit her shortly.”
Lyonette rasped, and Amerys paused. Her smile flashed over her lips, as fast as her magic.
“How dearly I would wish to witness it. But to business, for I hear the Walled Cities panicking. I have no intention to bring one to heel again…today.”
Lyonette gasped. Such words! She was in pain, but her class and pride refused to let her step back. She wouldn’t have, not for all the gold the inn had. This was still…Amerys.
“Bold words, Archmage. For a woman that Zeres alone held back at the height of the King of Destruction’s power.”
She was ignorant of how Ushar gaped at her. So focused on Amerys’ words and the woman herself that she didn’t realize how she spoke to the woman who terrified armies. Amerys’ face was too delighted to make Lyonette second-guess herself. She threw her head back and laughed.
“Is that how they say it in Izril? Held back. I failed to breach Zeres’ walls; this is true, and the fault is that I was too weak. Yet I did not see that city of countless millions storm over me like the waves. If one woman were indeed held back by an entire city…yes, fair enough.”
“I see. I do apologize for any discourtesy I implied. Merely that Pallass is an ally of the inn at times. I would not wish strife on either party.”
“So very well said, Princess. I take no offence at all.”
“Lyonette. I am no [Princess].”
This time, the Archmage’s chuckle was so rich that Lyonette’s lips had to quirk. She sketched a curtsey, then spoke.
“What else may we oblige you with, Archmage? I could at least provide you with refreshments for your long travels. Anything else?”
Amerys snapped her fingers, and the clouds rolled. It might be her one main trick…but it still made her like a [Storyteller of Legends]. There was no way to overcome the primal awe of her power.
“I shall have an Amentus juice and pizza slice, if you please. Merely to brag to my lord I did. Second, an autographed card of one ‘Mrsha’. That is not for myself, though I might as well request two. The last request is the trickiest, if simplest.”
“Mrsha?”
Lyonette’s reserve broke here, and she spluttered. Amerys nodded.
“It is a fancy of my peers. One of them; Mars to be exact. She is a great lover of fluffy and cute things, and the child fits both bills. It is also Mars’ opinion the autograph is appropriate for reasons she will not tell me.”
Amerys paused as Lyonette held her tongue, and the Archmage’s eyes glittered.
“She is the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, perhaps the entire world. Her instincts do not fail, you see. She knew where the inn was, though it took days for her to think it out. It was that which prompted this occasion along with the provocation.”
At this moment, Ishkr came out the door to the inn, and Amerys actually recoiled in shock. But he had the requested items on a serving tray. She laughed at him.
“Who are you, stranger? The three of you could be His Majesty’s vassals all. And that funny Drake on the television says this inn is ‘inconsequential’ now. Does he not have eyes? Well, he has that stupid monocle.”
She knew Ishkr’s levels. He bowed as she took a bite of pizza, a sip of the blue fruit juice, and swept the cards off the tray. She handed him a diamond as fat as his thumb. He proffered her several autograph cards.
“Would you care to sign these, Archmage…?”
Laughing, she did. Then caught him before he turned.
“Should you desire work, seek me out, [Waiter]. Or His Majesty.”
He bowed and retreated with a smile for Lyonette. She sighed and then spoke. One of the [Necromancers] hidden around the new inn was gesturing for Ishkr to get more autographs; Lyonette glared Master Elosaith back into his hiding place.
“Archmage, it has not been long, but I think you are a woman who appreciates swiftness, and the attention of the world is crackling, if you will excuse the pun, towards us. I am loath to be on the scrying orb again so soon. What do you desire for your final request?”
Amerys bowed. She swept herself upwards, and now, she seemed wearied. Lyonette noticed the wrinkles on her face, probably hidden by makeup, and a certain weakness to her delicate movements.
“Forgive me. It has been a long trip, and though I have leveled, I am weaker than my raging youth in so many ways…I delight in our conversation, though it is true: without the [Innkeeper], I did not come for the inn. Thank you for indulging my fancy. I shall remember you to the King of Destruction.”
“Please don’t.”
A smile flickered across Amerys’ lips. Then she leapt backwards into the air and hung there. Her voice grew and boomed across the Floodplains of Liscor.
“It is not for the inn that I made this journey, nor shall it be the inn that sends me whence I came. All here know me; they know of my betrayal at Wistram. I have strived with every Archmage who was responsible for my capture. The [Mages] of Wistram I hold still in contempt for their treachery. Forty some lie dead that were too unwise to flee me. I have lost count already.”
Her head turned, as if regarding the [Scrying] spells now finding her. Amerys addressed the air and her audience on the ground.
“This…Archmage of Memories I shall meet on the battlefield in time, I have no doubt. But you? You surely knew the moment you heard my thunder who I was here for. They say you duel; I challenge you to one now. Defend the honor of the Academy of Mages or I shall drag you wailing into the sky. I have received your mocking challenge, though you doubtless did not expect me to bring it so swiftly to your face. You who have slumbered half as long as my King of Destruction have clearly forgotten who I am. So, face me, Archmage Valeterisa.”
Her head turned, and her eyes shone like spotlights. Lyonette slowly turned her head towards the inn, and inside, a very upset woman tried to duck beneath the windowsill.
 
——
 
Everyone was staring at her. Archmage Valeterisa’s voice quavered as she looked at Relc, Montressa, and for a way out.
“I-I sent no such challenge!”
But it occurred to her that even if this were true and this was some laughable misunderstanding—which it was—
She was going to have to go out there and tell Amerys that.
Amerys had always scared Valeterisa. And that was before the King of Destruction had woken up.
Montressa gazed at her master and the Archmage of Lightning hovering in the storm she was conjuring. They were both Archmages…in title. But one of them was trying to get into the [Garden of Sanctuary] as the three girls inside tried to eject her.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Chandrar twirled on the waters, her feet tapping on the liquid surface of the Floodplains like a marionette in a surreal glass world of watercolors. If that alone was too much for you, do not meet her eyes.
She trailed tracers of lightning, afterimages of her body flickered from place to place like some gigantic firefly. She was warming up. The same odd, swaying dance that was both slow and combined with the speed of a [Lightning Mage] was her battle style.
She had not come here to eat pizza and sip blue juice. The very mana in the air was turning to the lightning element; the feeling like the tingle in the air before lightning struck. Everything was taking cover.
Fish were swarming away from her, causing visible currents in the water. A herd of Rock Crabs scuttled over a hill and down the other side. Even a few skeletons decided to hotfoot it into the water.
Amerys waited for her opponent, and this…this was familiar to her. The world had changed so much in the year of her imprisonment that had felt like far longer. A hellish aeon of confinement and helplessness defined only by her will to refuse to suborn her loyalties. Then, the disappointment of both foes who fled her king’s legend and great events seeming to miss her; an Archmage out of nowhere, magic produced like a [Magician]’s tricks that had not been there when she was young. Frustrating, in short.
This made her feel young again. The Archmage threw her hair back in a spray of rain, and it hovered as she watched the droplets of water turn into miniature orbs of lightning. This was older than she was, old as the dawn of this world. Older than that, in some ways. It was the thing that all those who believed in magic knew.
A mage’s duel. Like the challenge of warriors, there was a calling to it. Here were two Archmages of Wistram. Two who were ideologically opposed. Valeterisa, a traditionalist for all she was a recluse, part of the Terras faction.
Amerys, the servant of the King of Destruction, who had openly cut ties with the Academy, thought to be the greatest living battlemage in Wistram…until Eldavin.
How could it not be war? Oh, certainly, when the timid Archmage of Izril finally did appear, seeming rather as though someone had shoved her out a window, her first move was to conjure a white flag and wave it before levitating towards Amerys, requesting parlay, a truce, clarity, and non-aggression—but you knew.
Just look at her.
Did anything about Amerys look like she had come for civilities? In fact, the eyes upon Amerys was the thing.
Her presence had been noticed by the Walled Cities, of course, and powerful mages across Izril. Her advent in Liscor had set off every alarm, literally, and while it took Wistram News Network precious minutes to locate her and begin broadcasting, there was another kind of resonance going on worldwide.
A familiar one. It had been a moment or two since the last time, hadn’t it? But the moment people heard about it, they felt that sensation. Like the King of Duels fighting the King of Destruction. Like other moments—but this one was special.
An Archmage’s duel in our times? When they heard that, they stopped, dropped everything, and listened.
 
——
 
“Amerys has found Valeterisa? Oh no. Tell her to run.”
The first person to speak in Wistram Academy was Archmage Viltach, who paled and reached for his wand with his new arm. Reflexively—the memory of Amerys tearing up the banquet hall he was sitting in was vivid. He had nightmares about it.
“She’ll kill her. Amerys, I mean. Valeterisa doesn’t stand—is she headhunting [Mages] in Izril now? Tell anyone who’s Wistram-affiliated to take cover!”
Another [Mage] squeaked. Half the ones in the room were buzzing—not fully with sympathy, for Valeterisa was not well-loved. But Amerys? Viltach whirled.
“Scrying orb. Is this on television? Should we cut the broadcast?”
“Cut the broadcast?”
That question was derisive, and Viltach flinched. For like so many moments, it was Archmage Eldavin who spoke as if his fellow Archmage were a fool as well as a dullard. He sat at his own table and turned.
“If they do battle, or Valeterisa loses, would this not affect Terras’ reputation, Archmage Eldavin?”
The cool question came from Archmage Feor, the second-most important half-Elf in Wistram. Maybe soon third if Eldavin kept elevating his own people in levels and magic. Eldavin’s mismatched eyes were icy as he raised a finger to his temples.
“It would, Archmage Feor. But are you suggesting we visibly sever a live broadcast of such magnitude? While other news networks, doubtless, will prove our censorship and make us seem like fools?”
“That was not my assertion. I was merely asking a question to Archmage Viltach’s point—”
Feor glowered, but Eldavin was already conjuring a massive scrying spell in the air. He spoke dreamily to everyone, and Viltach felt his skin tingling. As he occasionally did, Eldavin’s words seemed to be older than this room itself.
“This is a battle of Archmagi. A Mage’s Duel. I am attempting to contact Valeterisa, and if aught can be done…this is a sight worth witnessing, children. Such moments have defined entire eras. Not just in spectacle. Not just in terms of victors and losers. Magic witness it: you shall rarely ever see two experts strive against each other thusly. And thus, seldom see finer spellcasting.”
His words were that of an immortal. That of a great spellcaster, and, Viltach realized, he could also not take his eyes off the image hovering in the air. Nor was it mere entertainment.
 
——
 
Consumed by vengeance, castle abandoned.
Not cold…he had begun forgetting what cold was, even in memory. The Lich of undeath, Az’kerash, stood in an empty field where dying Landsharks gazed up at glowing-eyed undead. Then fell limply.
Rose.
But the undead merely waited, and the Chosen, who had fought this battle, were shifting. For their master, who had pushed them harder than they had ever been tested these last few months, was different. Today no less than others.
He was…
Digging.
A literal shovel in hand, ignoring the offers of his Chosen to do the work for him, heedless of the literal Bone Giant he could have used for the same purpose. Digging a hole already three hours into the making, carefully.
Very carefully.
Az’kerash only paused in his labors when he received a brief spot of information across his networks of informants and compromised magical spells that fed him knowledge of the world. It cost a great deal of mana—here at least—but it was worth it. For he put the shovel down and floated upwards.
“Two Archmages have met in Liscor? [Cloaked Scrying]. All will halt. Children: observe.”
He sat cross-legged on the grass, abandoning his task for a moment. He barely knew either woman as they met in the rain. They were not [Archmages] worthy of the name…well, one wasn’t. The other might be close.
It did not matter. Az’kerash watched, and some Human part of him stirred in remembrance. But even the Lich watched.
“Master? What does it matter if two mortal magi die? Unless their bodies…?”
Venitra was trying to puzzle it out. The Necromancer replied softly.
“To learn, Venitra. The spellcasting of the modern era, the level and techniques used. And yes, to know who falls and where they are buried. But to see…”
His mind flashed back to a living heart beating, and Perril Chandler whispered once.
“To see whose vision of magic is truer. What [Mage] would not witness it?”
 
——
 
Not just [Mages]. Flos Reimarch halted his ride towards the next battle.
“Amerys did what?”
He gazed at the scrying orb that Death Commander Ytol was holding. Disapprovingly, Death-General Losve growled.
“She has abandoned her front? It explains the failure of her forces and others! Your Majesty, shall I contact her and order her retreat?”
Flos wasn’t listening.
“Liscor…? And she didn’t take me. Outrageous!”
Of his many vassals, the Rustängmarder and Gazi were present. And of the many groups that had served the King of Destruction, they were some of his most ardent followers, Death General Losve being much like Gazi in that respect. However, Losve had never quite understood Flos like the rest of the Seven.
“Did she not inform Your Majesty of her actions? To make war on Izrilian cities without permission is treasonous, Your Majesty.”
The slits in her vizor blazed a wrathful green. However, Flos just kept staring at the orb, dismayed.
“No, she told me she was going off to beat another [Mage] senseless and needed backup and Gazi’s help—don’t be overdramatic, Losve. She used to do this all the time. But she didn’t say Liscor. Probably because she didn’t want to carry me, and Orthenon would put up a fuss! Gazi! You conspirator!”
The half-Gazer ducked her head, smiling as he glowered at her. Flos groaned.
“I could have eaten one of those blue fruits! Someone send her a [Message] to get some for me!”
The Death General’s ire wavered out like a candle blown by a breeze. Flos was only mad he’d missed out! She hesitated.
“Shall we continue our advance, Your Majesty…?”
The King of Destruction threw up a hand.
“No. Halt the army. We watch.”
He smiled, a too-eager, envious grin flashing across his face, and the Rustängmarder shifted, aware that the King of Destruction’s focus had been sapped by this flight of fancy. Yet the army was already gathering, eager to witness this moment from their beloved Archmage.
Only Losve and her people were unmoved. She cast a glance southwards.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen may not honor this moment as others, Your Majesty. If they should bid to attack?”
He turned his head, and re-focused a moment, frowning. Flos stroked his beard.
“If they should, I will do battle. But it is a fair point, Death-General. Take your pick of officers unwilling to yet die. Bring the battle to our foes of today if only to buy us an hour’s reprieve.”
“As Your Majesty wills. Have I leave to rout them?”
“Yes.”
The green glow from the Death-General’s eyes matched her smile as her helmet rose.
“Have I leave to raze them if they resist?”
“Yes.”
He wasn’t paying attention. The King of Destruction watched before turning his head once.
“Gazi? What set Amerys on this particular quest? I would have thought she’d challenge Nerrhavia’s Fallen before setting off to Izril.”
“Apparently, she was challenged, sire.”
His brows rose in frank incredulity.
“Truly?”
“The image was suspect to my eyes. But you know Amerys.”
“Hah. Yes. She likely needed little more than that. So that’s why…the Archmage of Izril seems to be a far frailer woman than the being who lifted the City of Incantations. She may well run rather than duel. Who is that Drake? I feel as though I know him.”
Gazi’s eyes fixed on the scrying orb where a Drake was following Valeterisa, albeit at a remove.
“That would be a [Spearmaster]. The one from Liscor. Relc the Gecko. They appear to be coupled.”
“Interesting.”
Flos Reimarch went still, then, watching as the two Archmagi drew closer.
 
——
 
Belavierr the Stitch Witch understood science. Not in the same easy way of a physicist who conversed with numbers as if they defined everything, but in the way of a [Numerologist]. As someone who understood what people believed so she could manipulate it. Who studied the box so she could shake that which was inside.
She understood, then, the oldest adage of physics. A lever. With a simple lever, one could move…
Anything.
Building the lever was difficult. Some tasks were too weighty even for her. Still…the work went on. She was taking step by slow step upwards. It was hard work. Gruelling.
Even so, the dead Kraken straining upwards, its ruined body ensnared by vast strings—that helped. One of four, the largest by far. Smaller, living Krakens strained next to it, terror giving them strength. For if they died…she would still have a servant.
Belavierr did not watch the image of the two women approaching each other. Well, she did, but she watched many things.
She watched the faces of those observing this conflict, so many threads converging on a singular moment, proof of this changing world. She observed the strands of fate that drew these two women together. She watched two different kinds of magic meeting…
“Strange. Not a traditional duel then. A variant.”
She knew them all. This was virtually as primordial as the first. The Stitch Witch took one step.
The seafloor shook.
 
——
 
The faint tremor didn’t reach the deck of the ship that the King of Myths sat on. It was merely a slightly larger wave from further away.
Magus Tserre’s arms were folded. She was giving commentary as Princess Vernoue watched almost as raptly as the King of Myths.
“So these are modern Archmagi. The one with green hair wins.”
“Magus, you cannot issue such boldfaced proclamations before they’ve even begun. Are they both not great [Mages]?”
Nuvityn protested. Indeed, Archmage Valeterisa was seen to be protesting vehemently with her equal, and her body language suggested a fight was not in the works.
The old half-Elf just turned her head.
“They may be, but one is a battlemage. The other is not. And before you speak, Commander Voreca, yes. I have caught up to modern events. Archmage Valeterisa might well serve as a [Battlemage]. It is not the same. It would be like sending Prildor forth as an [Archer General]. Serviceable, but entirely different to the King of Bows.”
“Hey! I resent that! Er, which King of Bows is it? Itrei-who? Dead gods, they’ve died again. How good is this fellow with a bow? The last one, well, she could barely hit a fly’s wings from four hundred paces.”
Nuvityn just watched, heart beating too quickly. Tserre appeared bored, but her eyes never left the vision of the two approaching. Then she grimaced and whispered.
“She’s definitely watching. She enjoys this thing, though she has sent more [Mages] to their graves since anyone save for Valmira herself.”
Once more, Nuvityn turned his head as that piece of Tserre’s puzzle revealed itself. But then he focused on the scrying orb.
 
——
 
Tserre was right.
The Death of Magic had a bucket of popcorn.
 
——
 
By the time the two met, they were aware of the scrying spells hovering in the air like a vast tangle of overlapping ‘eyes’. Though that was, Valeterisa considered, mind a-jumble of thoughts and emotions, such a simplistic way of thinking of it.
“It’s more akin to a tangle of cones. In most cases, traditional [Scrying] is, um, a bounded field of vision akin to a cone. It is based on actual eyes in some way, I understand. That is how it can be disrupted; manipulation of said cone in the air easily distorts the image. More adept spellcasting is far more advanced and does not necessarily have the same shape. A way one can observe superior spellcasting without even identification of the magical amplitude, Apprentice. As so…”
She was highlighting some of the scrying spells until the young woman whispered.
“Master, please! She’s right there.”
Valeterisa knew that. She just didn’t want to meet the other woman’s eyes. Valley licked her lips.
“Strange, you know. It feels like being a new [Mage] all over again. They say you never really leave your academy days behind, and we were both in the same place…she always was very intense. Not that she bullied me, per se…”
Relc and Montressa were exchanging glances as they [Waterwalked] towards Amerys. They had offered to come with Valeterisa for moral support and because this was not a fight. Valeterisa had clarified that to Lyonette, though she had asked if maybe the inn would consider posting Bird in the tower. And they had a ballista!
The [Princess] had rather unhelpfully told Valeterisa that the inn was ‘not getting involved’ and to take it elsewhere. Which was very hurtful to a paying guest!
This was all some huge misunderstanding, and once Valeterisa cleared this up, they’d all laugh and laugh…
She recalled Amerys’ laughter being distinctly unsettling. Valeterisa fiddled with her big moon-shaped glasses and reminded herself she was, in fact, the Archmage of Izril. Just…
Just not like that.
Amerys really was unfair. Valeterisa knew for a fact that the other woman wasn’t that much younger than she was. Amerys had already been famed before the King of Destruction. Yet Amerys seemed decades younger. Was it just good alchemical products or illusion spells?
Then again, Amerys had always been taller and more graceful. Valeterisa was keenly aware of her grey hair, which only had faintly blue roots of the Imarris bloodline. Her robes were a slash of grey over green; respectable, but not like the cloud of distant magic adorning Amerys’ frame. And her eyes did not shine with the depth of magic. They were merely clouds into a distant vista of incantations she longed to one day uncover.
When she halted, and Montressa pushed her gently, Valeterisa stumbled forwards over a stupid little wave of water, and she and Amerys were not at a height. The Archmage of Lightning was floating off the water in a showy move.
Valeterisa-Analysis: Not [Levitation]. She’s actually flying, but it’s not [Flight]. I knew it wasn’t—it’s some kind of spell based on her lightning magic. Probably less mana-intensive.
Valeterisa-Ego: Still too showy. We should levitate so we’re of a height.
Valeterisa-Doubts: No, wait, that will make us look insecure. Which we are.
Valeterisa-Analysis: She’s got her amulets up. No static barrier spells deployed, naturally. She intends to be mobile. But she could still probably weather several [Siege Fireball] before her shields go down. Could we even hit her?
Valeterisa-Doubts: We’re not fighting her! We’ll die!
Valeterisa-Ego: We can’t look bad in front of Relc and Montressa! We—we can take her. If we had to. Right?
Valeterisa-Panic — Oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no…
Valeterisa-Analysis: I calculate her velocity to reach here from Chandrar must have been in excess of…my math cannot be correct. How does she have that much mana? Replaying memories of her duels.
Valeterisa-Doubts: We’re so dead.
 
She knew her [Parallel Thoughts] were going out of control. She couldn’t help it; she was, as the children might say, mildly freaking out.
As she halted on the water, Amerys stopped her dancing and hung in the air, one foot resting against the other, her toe floating an inch above the water, arms folded. A pose she seemed able to just…hold.
Valeterisa stood there. After a second, she bounced on her toes. The [Waterwalking] spell made the water feel like jello. She belatedly realized she hadn’t cast any magical spells to avoid getting wet. She was getting soaked.
“Erm…good morning, Archmage Amerys. The time now is 11:14 AM. Which would mean it has been, um, about nine years and twenty-six days since last we conversed. And five hundred and twenty-two minutes. Give or take. So good to see you. I did not send any challenges or insults, and any assertions to the contrary are not wrong, but perhaps, um, misinformed? How is the faction doing?”
Valeterisa’s mouth was acting with one of her thoughts, not quite in sync with the rest of her. Amerys chuckled softly.
“Valeterisa. I forgot how you talked. We met in the skies above the Meeting of Tribes, or have you forgotten?”
“Oh, um. Yes. Quite. Yes, we were on the same side!”
The Archmage of Izril brightened up.
“In light of this common event, I congratulate you on your escape from Wistram, um, and your King’s reawakening. Quite a lot of wars in Chandrar. I hope you’ve levelled?”
Amerys said nothing. Relc and Montressa were staring at Valeterisa, and she was trying very hard not to sweat. After a moment, she gestured.
“This is my apprentice, Montressa du Valeross, and, um, Relc.”
“The Drake? Who is he?”
“My…a person of interest to me. R-romantically?”
That did surprise Amerys. She did a double-take, and her eyes stopped focusing on Valeterisa like unthrown lightning bolts. She blinked and inspected Relc. He fiddled with his anti-magic spear.
“Now that is fascinating. You, the one Archmage I thought would find love after Feor? Ah, but he clings to his pretentiousness. I have heard the new Archmage, Eldavin, is not so…discreet. Funny, between us all, it makes Viltach seem the most normal. He is the only one who has actual children who speak to him and an ongoing marriage.”
Oh, they weren’t going to discuss the threats? Valeterisa smiled weakly. This was small talk. She could do that.
“Yes, Archmage Viltach. Very good with children. Have you had any pleasant conversations with him of late?”
Amerys tilted her head.
“Let me think. Well, the last time we spoke, I was trying to rip his heart out. Feor’s too.”
Ah. Valeterisa’s small-talk projection model exploded in her head. She bit her lip.
“Yes…quite regrettable.”
“I’ve quit Wistram. Whether or not they acknowledge it, I do not entirely care. But as I am sure you know, I serve Flos Reimarch. It is war with Wistram, even if neither side cares to make full battle of it, and though I do not know this ‘Archmage of Memories’, he has not deigned to make peace for Wistram’s imprisonment of me for a year.”
Now was an excellent time for some disclaimers. Valeterisa lifted a finger.
“I wish to clarify that I had no notion of your imprisonment at the time. I was sadly occupied with my own work and had no input into the matter.”
“Oh, I know. You were always too apolitical for that. Obsessed with magic for magic’s sake. I always admired that of you, though we were never allies.”
Because you’re very scary. Valeterisa nodded.
“And I quite admired your spellcasting and, um, zeal. So…we may consider this regrettable rift between us closed?”
Montressa winced as Amerys put her hands together like some [Monk], smiling beneficently. Before shaking her head.
“No. You are Wistram’s Archmage. I am wroth with the Academy of Mages. I did not lie, Valeterisa. Every Wistram mage that I have met is either surrendered or dead. So many claimed apoliticality, and perhaps that is fair. The institution they belong to has still committed acts they are responsible for. That is what affiliation means. That is what nationhood means.”
“A—very good point, though I would posit that some of us object to the acts of our larger institutions?”
“Oh, naturally. In my sweeping claim, I did not point out that I spared anyone who would be simply too young to account for their actions. I do not battle children unless they give me no choice.”
“Thanks for the clarity, yes, this is a very valid distinction.”
“You do not fall under that exception. I came, per your challenge. An insult was given, and I am here to settle the score.”
Oh, Amerys’ small talk was rather like a hurricane. It whirled and whirled and came to the point with more force than it began. Valeterisa swallowed.
“Upon truth spell—”
“Hah!”
“Upon, um, various lie-detecting methods, I would like to swear I have no knowledge of any challenges or insults given, Archmage Amerys. And if this is by way of my faction or my silly apprentice—”
“Master!”
“—I disavow and apologize for any such incidents.”
Amerys paused, regarding Valeterisa. She frowned, then produced something. Valeterisa activated a dozen barrier spells instantly and cocooned herself in magic. Amerys paused with a little image hovering over the palm of her hand.
Valeterisa blushed, but she only edged a bit closer as Amerys made the image big enough for Relc and Montressa to see. The audible voice was…familiar if distorted since your voice did not sound quite like it did in your own ears. But it was definitely—her?
Archmage Valeterisa was sitting in a scrying orb image, speaking with her eyes slightly off-center, which happened if you were conversing to multiple people on a call.
“Yes. I would like to, um, note that my transportation magics are not quite ready for disbursement, but our progress is quite satisfactory. It will be a highly cost-efficient method compared to [Teleportation]. Whereas I understand the appeal of the latter spell is considerable, it is not, mm, practical for bulk transport, Fissival’s case being a notable exception due to centuries of work, and I cite the current disrepair of the system as another issue. Individual teleportation is a different service I can discuss after the next question? Thank you.”
Valeterisa remembered this. It was from just last week with her investors. She blinked. How had Amerys…? Then she saw her eyes flick to the scrying orb, and the image wavered slightly as she brushed at her hair.
“Archmage Amerys? That is an interesting question, thank you. With respect to her, I, um, believe she is quite inferior to current Terras [Mages]. Her lightning-based magic is very showy, but she has not created any transportation networks, which indicates the flaw in her own spellcasting. If she had the ability to do more than do battle, I believe Chandrar would be a far different place. Not that I consider her not to be an Archmage, ha-ha. But I can assure you, any [Mage] of Terras will be far more magically competent within a year’s time…”
Archmage Valeterisa’s mouth stayed open in horror as Amerys tsked softly.
“I do believe it was meant only as an internal boast. But such things have a way of reaching me.”
“I—I did not say that! That is not a statement I uttered on call!”
Was it? She was almost positive, but Valeterisa initiated all the memory spells she had to make sure it wasn’t something she’d just blocked off or let a [Parallel Thought] say. But she was positive!
It didn’t even sound like her. She didn’t disparage other [Mages]! Well, at least not to anyone but Montressa or Relc! And never Amerys. But there was a good point about the lack of any magical works…
Valeterisa peered at the image.
“Can you replay it?”
Amerys did, and Valeterisa raised hurried fingers.
“Firstly, I believe this is some kind of advanced illusion, though highly, highly competent. Note the flicker in my features before I begin talking? Second, my voice registers as 11% higher than my regular pitch, which is almost imperceptible but indicates a mimicry spell not perfectly calibrated. Finally, I believe the cadence and my grammatical structure are off in ways I can cite—”
“Probably, yes.”
Amerys vanished the recording, and Valeterisa halted, her flurry of thoughts and clarifications cut off again. It was always like this with the two of them.
“Y-you understand?”
“I thought it was oddly said by you. We have known each other for years, and you may make political statements, but you do not insult my magic. Moreover, one of your investors having the wherewithal to record and send this to me seemed odd. I suspected it might be an Ullsinoi prank, though they usually have some benefit in mind…Gazi observed all the things you did.”
Valeterisa relaxed. She smiled and stood straighter before waving at Relc and Montressa in relief. They just stared at her, and Relc jerked his chin at her urgently.
“Well then! I am very grateful for clearing up the misunderstanding, Amerys, and in the future, if you would like to communicate any such apprehensions to me, I would be delighted to—”
“Oh, I didn’t really care if it was fake or not. I thought it was excellent timing. We are going to duel, Valeterisa. I’ve wanted to see what you were made of for a long time.”
The Archmage of Izril froze, and then she finally caught onto the moment. She peered up at Amerys, and a wand appeared in her hand where she’d been concealing it with a cantrip.
“I…don’t believe that would benefit us, Archmage Amerys. I am against a duel of any kind, even in friendship.”
“It’s not friendship, Valeterisa. There are many reasons to duel. You are Terras. I’ve been bored; the only [Mage] I know of in Nerrhavia’s Fallen with levels to match mine is hiding, the Silken coward. I wanted to remind Wistram how far I roam. I intend to steal your magic. But mostly, I want to.”
Amerys was famous in Wistram for picking fights with [Mages] for no reason. From the [Cryomancer], Illphres, to other [Mages], her duels in the banquet hall and elsewhere…but she’d never tried Valeterisa.
Possibly because Valeterisa had avoided her and she’d had all the sport she wanted. But now? Valeterisa’s mouth was dry.
“And if I refuse?”
“I’ll just hit you in the back. I have sworn not to attack the inn, but you are quite a ways away from it. If you can reach it without me taking you out, I would consider that a defeat in and of itself. Or…you could hand me all your magic and I will leave.”
Valeterisa’s mental alarms were peaking. She tried to smile, as if this was a jest.
“Archmage Amerys, most of my grand magics are at my mansion or other lodgings. Even if I were to wish to hand them over, I could not. What makes you think magic is something you can just steal?”
The Archmage of Lightning swooped down, and now Valeterisa felt Amerys’ lightning magic trying to overwhelm her own mana pool. Amerys grinned as she glanced down.
“This is technically true, but you haven’t been back to your mansion in half a year, Valeterisa. I checked. And you stay at that inn, and I hear rumors you’re building quite a lot. But no capable [Mage] would dream of leaving her theorems and spellbook in an inn, even The Wandering Inn. No, you’d keep it all on your person. Everything you know. Everything that the Archmage of Memories might have taught the only peer he has in his faction.”
Oh no. Valeterisa could almost feel the spellbook with the spells Eldavin had scry-copied for her burning in her bag of holding. And Amerys was looking right at it. She had always been a peerless debater. She was a battlemage, but her insight and reasoning were still that of what she was. A Wistram [Mage].
“So you see, Valeterisa. You may thank Archmage Eldavin’s many wondrous inventions and all the magic he boasts no one else has for this. What are we to do when one magical school has more magic than any other? History teaches us a simple solution.”
Magical war. Loot their spellbooks. Valeterisa’s lips were moving, but her mind was a flurry of thoughts. Spells.
She was not ready for this. Relc, Montressa, they were in danger. Lightning magic. Feor had said even [Greater Lightning Ward] had failed against her. She was the fastest [Mage] in the world.
I can’t beat her. Talk my way out of—
Keep the apprentice safe.
Who made the—?
Got to be a way out of—
“Amerys. I would like to make a personal plea to our fr—acquaintanceship over the many years we have known each other. I do not desire strife.”
For a long moment, the Archmage of Lightning stepped back. She flickered onto the waters and thought, genuinely thought, and Valeterisa waited, breathless. Troubled, Amerys stared at the waters below her, the sky, then settled her gaze on Valeterisa.
“That does trouble me, Valeterisa. I said, once, to His Majesty of Reim that I regretted two things.”
“Which were?”
“Firstly, that we had never been great friends. For I admired your magic at Fissival, and determination, and I felt I had underestimated you.”
“Thank you. I…appreciate the sentiments greatly. I have always admired your talents myself.”
Amerys nodded. Her eyes shone brighter.
“Secondly, Valeterisa? I regretted that we had never been enemies. We are all but peerless. We exist at the height of our levels, except for the strange old monsters like the Archmage of Memories. Too low to be called true myths, too legendary to continue climbing. But my class tells me—if we battle, I level. So.”
She flicked her hand up, and she was holding a wand whose length crackled with blue lightning, and red and green and—Valeterisa’s eyes went round. Archmage Amerys fired three bolts of lightning twining together at Valeterisa.
They twisted out of existence before touching the Archmage of Izril. Her barrier spells shuddered, overloading at diffusing that much mana. Valeterisa’s wand rose.
Amerys flickered—appeared behind Valeterisa. Her kick shattered a barrier, and Valeterisa—
—skipped over the waters like a stone—
Mind aflurry, tumbling. Had to put kinetic blockers on—
The Archmage of Lightning drop-kicked downwards, and a bolt of [Grand Lightning] drowned everything out. She turned, aiming.
Pop. Valeterisa’s [Rapid Teleport] made her appear in the air, and the trio of lightning bolts struck her. Didn’t diffuse; she reeled as her secondary barrier spells overloaded. Down to personal shields. She was gasping as Amerys spoke.
“They told me you bested Eldavin when he challenged every Archmage. Let’s see it.”
The Archmage of Izril stopped thinking of ways to make peace. She abandoned every thought not on survival or spellcraft. She aimed her wand and began firing spells nonstop as the duel began. All except for one little thought in the back of her head.
Oh no, oh no, oh no…I can’t beat her. Not her. 
But she couldn’t run. Amerys was too fast.
 
——
 
It was happening too fast. Even for him—both in the escalation and the conflict. This was not a Solstice event. This was something else, and it had the sharp tang of war to it.
This was…Flos Reimarch’s myth. The King of Destruction’s phenomena. If Erin’s was chaos, with levity and blades, this was far sharper. The unsheathed sword.
The air was filled with so many sounds and the light too blinding at first, so Relc Grasstongue focused. He was standing on the water as Montressa covered her eyes, her barrier spells absorbing stray particles of magic. But she was still a kid; perhaps Relc alone fully saw the first moments of the two Archmages’ duel.
He still didn’t understand what he was seeing, not the magical nuance of it. His eyes only tracked the two women, not the unseen spellcasting. But what was visible was enough.
Relc had never encountered anyone as fast as Amerys. Not even Zeladona had been that fast—not that she’d needed to be or been pushed. This woman?
He was the Gecko of Liscor, but his [Lightning Run] seemed like a joke of a Skill compared to her movements. Each step carried her dozens or even up to a hundred feet in the air. It was something beyond [Flash Step]; she could move about the skies in jolts of lightning and reposition around her opponent with ease.
He couldn’t imagine outrunning or catching her; she danced in a sphere around her target, Valeterisa. When a flurry of magical arrows came her way, she’d just step aside or swerve under the spells. Dodging.
Valeterisa was blocking, the far harder task. When they talked about magic and she explained things to him, or tried, he always brought it back to things he knew, like a fistfight. Easier and less painful to dodge than block, right? She had said he was ‘reductive’, but accurate. Every spell you had to absorb with your barriers took mana—and she was doing that now.
Not that Valeterisa wasn’t mobile; she was flying in an erratic pattern, surging upwards, diving, even dodging as well, trying to throw Amerys off. However—her [Fast Levitation] wasn’t at all comparable to Amerys’ speed. He saw floating shields like a [Knight]’s heater shield, made of green magic, circling her under a bubble-barrier and magical armor; layers upon layers of magic.
Each time Amerys threw a bolt of lightning, one of those layers vanished, and Valeterisa had to replenish it. She was trying every technique she had to diffuse the magic. Barriers were a game of sword-scroll-rock according to her. Each one worked differently. He assumed she was casting [Lightning Ward], but it wasn’t…working.
As he watched, Valeterisa dove, and he saw eight different Tier 4 spells shooting outwards from her wand. [Double Fast Fireball], [Ice Spike Spray], [Invisible Silent Sickle]—Relc could see their outlines in the rain—[Shattering Stone Lance]—
Each one an upgrade on regular spells. Only one was aimed at Amerys; the others were fired in a pattern around Amerys as she twisted, trying to catch the Archmage of Lightning where she appeared.
Amerys dodged the two [Fireballs], stepping down into a place where the [Stone Lance] spell exploded, showering her with deadly [Stone D—
—She was already a dozen feet back and threw a [Lightning Bolt] as the [Stone Darts] hit the water. The bolt of lightning struck one of the glowing knight-shields and bounced.
“Deflection! She’s doing it! Master, [Lightning Ward] your barriers! All of them!”
Montressa was screaming, hands cupped to her mouth. Relc doubted Valeterisa could hear; the Archmage of Izril whirled, saw Amerys tilting her head, and fired a [Spear of Light]. Then cast around, anticipating Amerys’ next move…
The Archmage of Chandrar dipped slightly, and the [Spear of Light] passed just over her head. She caught Valeterisa looking the other way and pointed her wand.
Blue lightning. Valeterisa’s knight-shield spell exploded, and Montressa stopped yelling in horror.
“That’s a dual-element spell.”
Of course. Relc tensed as he saw Valeterisa doing a loop, firing more spells that Amerys flicked out of the way of. If you were known as the Lightning Magus, then everyone would use that trick on you. That explained why Amerys’ lightning changed colors. She was cycling the spell types. Or just—
He saw her dive into the waters, or seem to. Illusion. Valeterisa pointed down, and he shouted.
“Valley! Above you!”
Whether she heard or not, Valeterisa’s head snapped up too late. She saw Amerys taking aim—
Whatever hit Valeterisa, it wasn’t [Grand Lightning].
Relc knew that because one of Montressa’s [Arcane Barrier] layers imploded from the shockwave. He staggered and saw Valeterisa falling. She caught herself in the air, woozy. Then he heard her speaking.
“[—Whiteflame Jet], [Thresk’s Steel Warspears], [Tidal Wave], [Firestorm], [Windstorm of Karaz], [Expand Spell]—”
She was casting faster than he’d ever seen. Area of attack spells—winds howled upwards as a sandy veil enshrouded her. It met flames raining down, and the two storms met in the air as the waters rose. Steel spears and white-hot fire flashed out of the defensive storm.
The Archmage of Chandrar laughed as she halted out of range of the amalgamation of magic. She didn’t try to push her advantage; she just readjusted her grip on her wand, murmuring.
“[Bind Spell: Forked Grand Lightning]. [Bind Spell: Greater Dispel]…”
She was breathing deeply, in and out. Not good; not at all. She had the same atmosphere about her that Relc was familiar with. Like a [Veteran Soldier] would do, like he did, she was waiting between bouts, gathering her breath, even with the battle right in front of her. The flashing spells from within the storm told Relc that Valeterisa was still casting defensively, assuming she was being attacked. Trying to buy time to reset.
Everything about Amerys was familiar to Relc. They were no way on the same level, but he recognized her patterns. She was a speed attacker. Like him. All her spells were long-ranged bolts of lightning; she didn’t alternate spells. She didn’t need to.
She just needed to hit someone hard enough, and they were dead. Now, she raised a hand, and he knew she was going for a big one.
“[Bind Spell: Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
That one wasn’t instantaneous. He saw lightning trickling downwards from the clouds and forming over her head as it wrapped down one arm. Montressa moaned.
“That’s not…that’s Tier 6 magic! She can bind that?”
Relc had never seen that spell cast by a single [Mage]. He’d seen a Tier 6 spell go off in war once. It had blown a hole through nine ranks of Antinium during the Second Antinium Wars. And she was binding it; she’d be able to throw it in a second once it was done. His teeth gritted.
This is a legend of the King of Destruction. One of his Seven. It would be suicide to get between her and Valley. Can Valeterisa match her? 
He pictured the silly, sometimes befuddled woman blinking over her cup of tea. Then flashed to the Archmage lifting Fissival overhead. Which one…?
Amerys pivoted, breaking away from binding the Tier 6 spell. She swatted something out of the air.
“This is a mage’s duel, Drake. I don’t feel like killing you. You aren’t at our level. I’ll ignore that once.”
Relc had thrown one of his blacksmith’s puzzles at her. He was outside of Montressa’s barrier spells. She froze.
“Relc? Don’t—”
“Valeterisa doesn’t want to duel you. Back down, Archmage. You’re in Liscor’s territory.”
The response amused Amerys. She floated back as Relc lifted the spear that had killed more [Mages] than he could count. The whirling storm of magic subsided, and Valeterisa reappeared, barrier spells doubled. She froze when she saw the Drake standing on the waters.
“Relc?”
But for her [Waterwalking] magic, Relc couldn’t even face Amerys. He knew that. Even so, the [Spearmaster] set himself. Amerys tilted her head.
“Liscor. Now that is funny. King Perric of Medain hasn’t the stones to threaten me with his nation’s sovereignty. Are you Liscor’s champion…what is your name, paramour?”
“It’s Relc. I’m a Senior Guardsman. Fly off before I arrest you.”
Wow, he was as stupid as everyone said he was. The Gecko saw Amerys’ lips quirk. She pointed her wand at Valeterisa.
—He saw her other hand point a finger at him—
The [Lightning Bolt] was fast. Relc’s spear blocked it, and he felt the jolt run down his legs into the water. It still hurt, but the magic diffused as his spear whirled.
Faster than Valeterisa’s [Lightning Bolts]. Way more powerful. Valeterisa had never fired them trying to kill him. The Drake swore. Amerys’ head turned.
“Oho. You are a [Spearmaster]. And that spear…anti-magic tip. Mage-killer.”
“I’m warning you. [Officer Headhunter Mode].”
He sank into a killing stance, ready to dash. But—she was so high up. He could throw his spear, but even if he called it back, that would leave him exposed, and she was so damn fast. How the hell did he hit her? He wasn’t even sure his Skill would work on her.
“Relc! Get away!”
Valeterisa shouted. She was flying towards them, and Amerys pointed a finger at Relc, her wand at Valeterisa.
“Let’s see how fast you are, [Spearmaster]. [Lightningbolt Volley].”
She started blasting spells at him and Valeterisa. Vanished—shot another [Lightning Bolt] down from sixty feet up, twenty feet to the right of where she’d been, pivoted, fired two more [Lightning Bolts] at him, unleashed her bound [Grand Lightning] at Valeterisa—
The Gecko of Liscor parried the first four [Lightning Bolts] faster than he’d ever moved in his life. His spear was whirling in a defensive pattern. He pivoted, and the waters shook underfoot as the diagonal one made him stumble. He didn’t know this terrain. Turn! T—
The fifth one hit him. The [Spearmaster]’s anti-magic spear sang, a high-pitched keening of its enchantments deflecting the lightning bolt as he slashed away from his chest. Diffusing the spell before it could fully electrocute him. The butt of the spear blocked the sixth bolt. But the impact still tossed him across the water.
He rolled to his feet, head ringing. A huge scorch-mark was on his chest. His bare chest; he didn’t even have armor on, just clothes Valeterisa had bought him.
Good…it wouldn’t stop lightning anyways. I’m barely fast enough.
His arms were trembling from the electricity. He gripped his spear tighter, and it was still shrilling from that much magic. He’d only heard it do that twice.
“Valeterisa?”
A geyser of water and flames. Then a spark of fleeing lightning. The Archmage of Izril was bombing the area with spells as Amerys backed off. But the flicker changed-course—she was back, just out of reach, thirty feet up.
He still jumped and slashed. He had to try—
She backed up a dozen feet as he landed. Fired a seventh lightning bolt. He blocked it, but it knocked him to the ‘ground’, and he skidded on the water.
“You are good. But she didn’t make that spear for you. I’ve seen the like before.”
What did that—? Amerys pointed at him, and her other finger crossed her chest.
“[Fourfold Arcane Barrier]. [Empowered Spell: Dragonling Spark Dance].”
He’d never heard of that one before! Relc’s spear spun as Amerys conjured a barrier; Valeterisa’s magical spells began to slam into it as miniature little jolts of lightning that looked like they had the silhouettes of Dragons fired from her wand.
One dozen, two dozen—he lost track as his spear whirled.
[Defensive Whirl]! [Spear Flurry]—[Whirlwind Dodge]—
He began stabbing the lightning bolts, then dodged away, but they followed. The Drake was dancing backwards, spear shaking in his clawed hands, untouched for a moment.
His spear was shaking?
It was vibrating, he realized. Thrumming, and that keening sound was too loud. He gazed up as Amerys’ spell ended. She pointed.
“[Burning Lightning].”
Flames burst over her shields, and she cursed. Vanished. He raised his spear and blocked the bolt of red lightning—
 
——
 
“Relc? Relc!”
The Drake rolled up. His scales were on fire. But it was just flames. He gasped; Montressa was standing over him, hands raised.
“My spear—”
It had exploded. His mind caught up with his memories as the Drake looked around. The explosion had hurled him into the waters; it had deactivated his [Waterwalking] spell. Montressa had pulled him up.
Bag of holding? Gone. A charm Valeterisa had made for him? Fallen to pieces. His spear’s enchantment…the Archmage of Lightning had destroyed it.
Relc was still holding part of the shaft. He gazed at the spear that had been with him ever since he’d made [Sergeant]. Then he let go of it.
“Valeterisa.”
 
——
 
Montressa had pulled Relc out of the water when she’d seen him fall in. She stood over him, reapplying her barriers as he stared skywards.
The clouds were lighting up. They’d taken their fight skywards, possibly because Valeterisa was trying to use the clouds as cover. Or because she’d feared endangering Relc and Montressa?
He saw lightning bolts shooting through the cloud—then coalescing. They flashed, and a figure fell. The bolts of lightning followed her down.
“She’s losing. W-we have to help!”
“I need another spear! Don’t fight, get to the inn!”
Relc shouted at Montressa. He began to run—she wavered, then pointed her staff upwards.
“[Hundredfold Arrows of Light]! [Seeker Orb]! [S-Siege Fireball]!”
Her own magical abilities were far greater than they had been at the Bloodfields! Even with her barriers up, she could fire spells through them! Relc raced away, and Montressa saw her spells shooting skywards…
They missed Amerys and Valeterisa by thousands of feet; the two were already fighting across the air far from her spells. Valeterisa was moving faster now, darting from spot to spot with some variant of [Flash Step]. But Amerys just kept hammering her with [Lightning Bolts].
She’s trying to tire Valeterisa out. There was a hard limit to how much mana Valeterisa had, and even with mana potions, she’d enter mana burn too fast at this rate. If they could just hit Amerys and force her to defend…Montressa tried again.
“[Tenfold Homing Speed Light Arrows]!”
She reduced the spell immensely to upgrade it. Only ten arrows appeared, but they shot towards Amerys with a velocity unmatched by her previous attack, and they twisted after her as she turned…
Then lost their target as Amerys zipped downwards. The arrows spun into the air, and one actually hit Valeterisa’s shields as the Archmage zoomed after Amerys. She didn’t even seem to notice; her face was locked in a grim mask of concentration.
No! How was she supposed to…? Montressa didn’t study duelling magic. Pisces might know, but unless you could catch Amerys with conventional spells, what was there?
Curse and hex magics? That requires getting a lock on her and overwhelming her protections. I can’t just [Remote Blind] her. Even homing spells are too slow. I’d need some kind of permanent lock on her…or an area-of-attack spell so big it catches her. Either fast, wide, or a trap—!
Wait, was that why Amerys was staying back from her master? She never got too close to Valeterisa, only firing pinpoint spells. Valeterisa might be throwing invisible spells around her, forcing Amerys to keep at range. Montressa couldn’t see them if so, and nor could she copy…
I have nothing that can catch her. No spell’s that fast. Except for…
Wait, there was one spell she’d seen used as a way to target foes. She couldn’t cast it and a homing spell, and even then, Amerys was moving so fast they’d barely catch up. But maybe…Montressa concentrated, and an entire minute passed as the fighting grew worse. Then she cast a single spell, her head aching with the complexity.
“[Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles]!”
A ray of light shot from her staff’s tip and zig-zagged skywards. Unlike other spells, this was no [Mana Arrow] spell, but a tracer of light itself. Fast beyond belief—it also followed no straight line, but bounced in the air, seeking its target.
It flashed towards Amerys, and the Archmage of Lightning—
Dodged.
She twirled sideways, glancing down, and the [Seeker Projectile] zipped upwards, missing its target and entering the clouds. Montressa’s heart sank. But then she realized Amerys had dodged it. She looked down and pointed—
[Grand Lightning].
The bolt blew four layers of Montressa’s shields apart. She screamed and cowered, and Amerys shouted down with a magnified voice.
“Apprentices have no place in a war between masters. Begone or die.”
Montressa wanted to try again. She was shaking; her barriers were still more than half-full. But she heard a mental order from her master.
V: Montressa, fall back. Get Relc to safety.
Montressa used her [Apprentice] link to shout back silently.
Master! What about you?
She heard no response. Then she could only run as lightning began to strike her. She didn’t know how much of a fight Valeterisa was putting up; she only knew she couldn’t help, only hinder if Amerys used her as a target and Valeterisa had to protect her.
Only as Montressa ran did she realize she could see all the scrying spells in the air following Amerys and Valeterisa, a tangled web of magic that the two Archmages were blowing to bits, forcing people to recast the spells. She could see the magic.
She was getting better, just like Valeterisa had said. Montressa was crying. She stared upwards.
They were just watching.
 
——
 
This was a love story—but it was not the time.
Fifteen minutes before the Archmage’s duel began, Channel 1 News was playing a new segment.
I Hate Everything with Noass.
He was dressed up with a formal suit and tie, and the Drake glared into the camera-orb as the lights came on in his studio. He had a corkboard behind him with his target of the day on it.
“Welcome, gentlemen, ladies, to today’s topic: Liscor. I am sick of hearing about Liscor this, Liscor that. Yes, they’re having elections. Yes, there’s a magic door…so what? Everyone talks about the war in the High Passes, and you know what I think? That’s a Pallassian affair, not a ‘Liscorian’ one.”
Air quotes with his claws. He went on.
“We’ve covered rumors about a ‘Goblin King’ with Channel 2 news. Did it affect you? No. Were there [Dangersense] alarms? Yes. But where, in this entire affair, does Liscor matter? Not. At. All. You know what does matter?”
His fist hit the table.
“Pheislant! The Lighthouse Kingdom! Pheislant has a population thirty-three times larger than Liscor’s! It has an economy that produces more gold in a day than Liscor in a year! Why are we giving coverage to a single city more than a nation? And that’s one nation, and I’m Izrilian!”
He wasn’t even getting started. The Drake’s voice began to rise as he got into his gripes with Liscor. And it was everything from Acid Flies to Rock Crabs to their stupid roads—and when he got to the Antinium or their worse decisions, oh, that was when he’d be started.
Thirty minutes. Shouting. Life was strange. Noass had been on his Channel 1 news show with Sir Relz until a moment when he’d been caught insulting, well, everyone. They’d tried to keep him on air for a while. Business as usual. But public outcry and letters, tens of thousands of letters to the studio, had meant changes so that it was frequently just Sir Relz. Noass had become a [Reporter]. Disliked.
They’d even been discussing firing him. Until he’d asked for a segment. Decided if he was going to be hated, he’d go down swinging. The opposite had happened.
His new broadcast was controversial. People loved to write in. He read the best ones out on air. Being hated got you views, and that’s what Wistram liked. More views meant more attention. More views meant more sales of scrying orbs and more views of advertisements, which they ran every thirty minutes. More to come…and Noass’ segment was liked by many, despite the hate.
He had some popular segments.
Things I Hate: Taxes. 
Things I Hate: Humans. 
Things I Hate: Pineapples on pizza.
Things I Hate: Immigrants. 
Things I Hate: The King of Destruction.
Things I Hate: Crelers.
He had an endless list. Plenty of material. Someone asked him where he got it from. Noass’ off-the-cuff reply was keeping his eyes open for five seconds.
This was promising to be another great episode. But d’you know what Noass really hated?
He hated…being alone on this segment. True, he was popular. True, he was back, baby. But you know what he missed?
Sir Relz. What had happened to the good old days when it was just them, a scrying orb, and that door? When they were just…[Commentators]? The lights shone over him as he ranted, but he missed his friend.
That’s what he hated. But of course, he focused on Liscor—right until the door slammed open.
“Excuse me, I’m sorry, but—excuse me, breaking news!”
“—sewers. I—what’s the meaning of this!? Sir Relz?”
The nobleman was panting. His monocle was nearly popping off his face. He didn’t even have makeup on. But he ran forwards.
“Pull the set. We have a breaking news story. Noass, it’s the Archmage of Chandrar.”
He stood behind the desk, and Noass rose.
“Wh—Amerys? The Calm Flower of the Battlefield? Is she dead? Hurt?”
“She’s just crossed into Izril. Noass, she’s challenged Archmage Valeterisa. Do we have a scrying spell? I’m not ready—we’re live! Go, go!”
Relz shouted at the staff, and Noass grabbed his collar, adjusted it, brushed at his neck spines.
“Here, the chair—”
Someone brought another for him as Relz glanced around. A scrying image appeared of two women meeting in…
“The Floodplains of Liscor? Oh, come now!”
Noass groaned. Sir Relz was grabbing pieces of paper being handed to him by one of the staffers.
“Noass, this is just in—she appeared on Medain’s coast during a storm and used it to cross the ocean! [Sailors] reported seeing jagged lightning—that was this morning. Zeres signalled an alarm, but she was headed north so fast…”
Noass sat down.
“Ancestors. Sir Relz, this morning? How fast is that? She’s crossed half the continent and the ocean that fast? How many hours?”
“It can’t have been more than four.”
“Then we can do the math! Someone get me a map—that speed is—and we’re looking at Archmage Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril. Famously part of the Terras faction of Wistram. Relz, is that what I think it is? Are we looking at…an Archmage’s Duel?”
They stared at each other, and Sir Relz’s mouth moved.
“One of the hallmarks of old magic? Famous for taking place between countless [Archmages], from Zelkyr to Valmira? Though I note that Zelkyr popularized duels by proxy with his Golems—”
“What could have started this, Sir Relz?”
“Noass, your guess is as good as mine. Oh, they’re talking, but we can’t hear anything. We have only scrying spells and are remote, but working on better angles. Noass, are they standing on the water?”
“Amerys looks to be floating. Archmage Valeterisa is just standing…who’s the Human and Drake?”
“That’s…her apprentice, Montressa du Valeross, and, I think, Relc Grasstongue, the Gecko of Liscor? Aren’t they dating?”
“Ancestors, are they?”
The two [Commentators]’ mouths never stopped moving. They were chattering on instinct, playing off each other, using their knowledge—which was fairly wide—as well as each other’s ignorances to inform the viewers what was going on in a natural style.
And oh, he was scrambling for commentary, he was stunned by the news, his suit was disordered, and the production staff were shuffling behind him as the broadcast went on, but Noass’ heart was leaping.
They were back, baby! This was what he lived for. Noass and Sir Relz. The duo of duos. The best of friends. He could see the other [Commentator] trying not to grin as they sat side-by-side.
Then, of course, the duel began, and they fell silent. The first volley of lightning and the way Valeterisa made the strands of magic just…vanish? Noass was trying to speak.
“I—that is magic on a level no [Mage] can match in this era, surely, Sir Relz. I can’t count how many spells we’re seeing fly!”
“That’s Tier 5 magic. [Grand Lightning] is Tier 5 magic. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that [Fireball], a destructive spell, is Tier 3. [Siege Fireball] is Tier 4, and we use that to bust down gates. This is Tier 5 magic—though I think it’s not as destructive as [Siege Fireball]?”
“Surely it has to be.”
Sir Relz was shaking his head, finger claws pressed to his temples. He knew magic.
“No, no…it’s on parity, but the speed is incomparable. How could anyone dodge…?”
Noass gazed at their mage in Archmage Valeterisa and whispered.
“She’s not dodging. She’s getting destroyed. Gentlemen, ladies, give it to the Archmage of Izril. She’s taken enough shots to kill a company of [Soldiers], and she’s still alive. But she’s not landing a hit on her foe. This is horrific. Someone get ready to cut the feed. Are we on a delay? We might see a murder live.”
“It’s not a murder if it’s a duel, Noass. Legally, it’s an unsanctioned death—oh, Ancestors! That Drake is mad!”
They’d just seen Relc trying to interfere. The two watched his spear being blown apart, and Noass murmured.
“I don’t understand it. He must have had some kind of anti-magic enchantment, but how did she destroy it?”
“Overloaded it? I, uh—and they’re in the clouds. That’s a bad move for someone fighting a [Lightning Mage], surely? Oh! She’s hit! She’s falling!”
Noass was shaking his head as Montressa fired some spells. He could commentate on that, but the rest? He turned to Sir Relz.
“Sir Relz, if I were the Archmage of Izril, I would be running—if I thought I could escape. I know we talk a bit down on our Human Archmage, but I’m hard-pressed to say anyone could beat that monstrous woman. Calm Flower of the Battlefield…it’s like watching a [Soldier] fight a child! She’s got no chance! Wistram, if you’re hearing this, save her—she’s about to die!”
He turned to the cameras, actually serious. And perhaps because this was the first time both [Commentators] actually couldn’t keep up with the action, or because it was incensing to hear Noass talk—he did have [Provocative Statement]—or maybe just because he couldn’t sit still, there was a response.
“INCORRECT.”
The voice was not a mere bellow. It went in one earhole and out the other, and both Drakes flinched. The [Cameraman] spun the camera on reflex and earned his first level of the day—Magus Grimalkin strode into the set.
“Sinew Magus! We’re broadcasting! What is the meaning of—”
Grimalkin thrust Sir Relz’s chair back and planted himself behind the desk. He towered over the two Drakes.
“It is a disservice bordering on criminality to malign this as a one-sided duel. You [Messaged] me for analysis. I am incapable of giving it at anything less than verbal speed here and now.”
Someone else entered after Grimalkin, who’d barged through the security without a second’s pause. Noass was affronted, outraged—he and Relz scooted left, and he stared at a woman with a bag on her head and a…yellow tracksuit? But his mouth kept moving, the treacherous thing.
“Er, gentlemen, ladies, we have Magus Grimalkin as a guest analyst. And some Human?”
She hesitated, but Grimalkin made space for her instantly, and Relz spoke slowly.
“Lady Pryde Ulta. Of House Ulta, I believe.”
“Yes, my co-founder of Grimalkin’s Training Gymnasium. [Magical Stool]. [Magical Chair]. Pryde?”
Grimalkin produced two seats. Noass blinked; could he do that? Then he was sitting, dominating the frame. His eyes on the scrying image.
“Amerys and Valeterisa. Two legends of our time. This is disastrous for magic no matter who loses. If one should kill the other—it is a disservice to call it a one-sided battle, Noass!”
He barked and the Drake spread his hands.
“Well, you tell me what I’m seeing! All I see is one whiffing the air while the other strikes her with [Lightning Bolts]!”
That was what the blur of action was showing. The Sinew Magus grunted.
“I have my own [Scrying] spell, but it’s chaotic. If only we were at the…we’d have a better view from Liscor’s walls. No time. I need more vision of the field!”
Lady Pryde Ulta spoke behind the hemp sack on her head, voice authoritative.
“[Cameraman], pull the scrying spell back by 50%. Direct another one at a ninety degree angle to the first for a horizontal image. Then create two more for close-ups on both angles.”
“Er, yes, that!”
Sir Relz was affronted as the crew leapt into action. Grimalkin nodded at Pryde as the images gave him a better view. He pointed.
“Thank you. Now…observe the two styles from Wistram’s Archmages. Amerys has never lost a formal duel, to my knowledge, since becoming a member of the King of Destruction’s Seven. But then, no one wishes to duel her. She is rapidly repositioning thanks to [Lightning Step]—if that is not the exact spell, I will call it that. She is firing [Lightning Bolts] to wear down Valeterisa’s shields and alternating elements to bypass any elemental resistance. A classic skirmishing tactic employed in three-dimensional space.”
“Yes, and the Archmage of Izril isn’t able to hit her! See?”
Noass pointed out angrily as Valeterisa shot a flurry of spells in every direction in what seemed like a desperate move before diving under a [Lightning Bolt]. Grimalkin’s lips moved.
“I’m counting…excuse me, [Speed].”
He touched his own chest.
“[Enhanced Flame Spray], [Caustic Acid Orb], [Firestorm]—these are a series of panic-casts. She’s certainly unprepared for this battle. But see! She’s cast [Field of Suppression] again, and she’s negated the spells coming her way!”
He indicated the lightning unmaking itself. Grimalkin spoke as Amerys flickered out of view.
“This is one of the spells where she clearly has the ability to negate Archmage Amerys’ magic except for a Tier 5+ spell or repeated bombardment. But who is losing more mana on the exchange? I would say Archmage Valeterisa, but if that is her best defense…she is in danger of losing her barriers. Whenever she casts an area-of-attack spell, she is warding off the Archmage of Lightning. If she is reduced down to zero shields, her body will be struck by the [Lightning Bolts].”
“Instant death.”
Lady Pryde commented, and Grimalkin nodded. Sir Relz was trying to find a moment to break in.
“So where’s this expertise you’re hinting at, Magus?”
He half-turned, glaring. Then stabbed a finger and roared.
“There!”
All three of his co-casters jumped. Valeterisa had blinked backwards and vanished into a cloud of magic. Pale scythe-blades were shooting out of it, and she sent sickles of pale light high and low before following up all the magic with magical [Light Arrows] that spun after Amerys.
Valeterisa caught a bolt of lightning on one shield, dove into the clouds, and Grimalkin spoke.
“I cannot even speak the spells fast enough to commentate. This is a chained combination of magic cast at a speed beyond belief! Reposition to cloud control spell and denial spells on the corners—and she predicted the rearward spell and countered with the correct barrier type! This is the height of modern Wistram dueling technique! Observe—she’s using the clouds for cover, and there are attack and trap spells woven inside. Archmage Amerys is hesitating to get closer, but this duel is stalemating without her willingness to commit.”
Indeed, Amerys’ move-and-zap strategy was yielding far fewer results than at the start. She seemed to make a choice and zipped in close. Grimalkin whispered.
“Ball lightning. She’s blown the cloud apart with pure force.”
“Doesn’t that imply it was useless?”
“The mana expenditure on Amerys’ side was far greater. This is feint and counterfeit, Noass. Occasionally, one just uses a move of great exertion to land a blow.”
Pryde nodded, speaking coolly.
“Like a flying kick. Risky, but it worked. Her instincts as a [Battlemage] are far better than Valeterisa’s. Grimalkin, is there a chance for Valeterisa?”
The Sinew Magus was whispering.
“Let’s see. Another cloud spell. She’s daring Amerys to blow it up. Which the Archmage of Lightning does! Only, she’s hurled the [Ball Lightning] this time—a trap! It’s exploded—the clouds are covering the area. She’s dodging between then—no! Remotely-fired [Light Arrows]! Those wouldn’t be a danger unless Amerys hits them at the speed she’s going! Delayed-action spellcasting, emplaced magical trap spells—”
 
——
 
“—personal cloaking magic, and she’s casting this while flying and within a ten second window! No matter where the Archmage of Lightning goes, she’s at risk of hitting a spell at speed, and they’re likely to have mass!”
“Meaning?”
Pisces Jealnet was half-shouting as he sat in the Court of Silks, and everyone, from his team to Queen Yisame, was listening. He half-turned to Yvlon.
“Mass means Amerys feels them at the relative speed she’s hitting. So if she uses that [Lightning Step], even a [Light Arrow] might hit her hard enough to break every bone in her body. Ceria, am I missing anything?”
He was keeping pace with Grimalkin. The half-Elf was fiddling with her circlet, nibbling on it as she spoke.
“Big spells. Neither one’s throwing down their biggest, though.”
It sounded inane compared to Pisces’ terminology, but the [Necromancer] nodded.
“Neither one is giving the other time. The only moment Amerys had was when Valeterisa was panic-casting and Relc saved her. Valeterisa can do this! Wait, see? She’s hovering.”
Everyone saw the Archmage of Chandrar halt in the pouring rain as the clouds closed in, eyes darting left, right. Magical arrows spinning through the air like traps. No sign of Valeterisa—
Then the Archmage of Izril fired a [Valmira’s Comet] spell straight out of a cloud. Pisces roared along with Grimalkin.
“Decoy!”
Amerys thought so too; she dodged the trio of lasers that shot from another cloud at her, but [Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles] missed. She spun—the comet exploded into a trio of [Lightning Bolts]. At her! She dodged back into one of the clouds, and it detonated in a plume of ash and heat and—
 
——
 
Magus Grimalkin was on his feet, staring at the scrying orb. He whispered.
“That was one of the most elegant traps to catch an aerial [Mage] I have ever seen in my life. An attack pattern Archmage Valeterisa has used in duels, I am certain. I, genuinely, do not believe Archmage Amerys saw through the trap.”
Silence, a pause as the thunder stopped ringing. A weary shape was fleeing as a bolt of lightning cracked down from the heavens after her. Noass spoke.
“Then…how did Archmage Amerys dodge it, Magus?”
The Sinew Magus’ head turned as the camera zoomed in on his face. His voice was genuinely unsettled.
“Instinct and reflex. That is one of the world’s most experienced [Battlemages] to live. Archmage Valeterisa…”
He clenched his fists as he gazed at the scrying orb.
“She is a superior duelist. Far better than Archmage Feor. If you had showed me her spellcasting, I would have put her at the top of Wistram’s rankings. But Amerys is too fast. She’s going into close-quarters combat.”
“How is that worse?”
The Sinew Magus turned to Pryde as the streak of lightning caught Valeterisa as she fled past Liscor.
“She’s chaining a [Lightning Bolt] to her hands and feet. That’s a barrier-breaking technique. You press it against a magical field and pierce it at point-blank range. And the kinetic energy…”
The scrying spell was trying to follow them as a figure dropped from the skies. The bolt of lightning following her down had hit her six times.
 
——
 
“Is that everything?”
Archmage Amerys sounded…disappointed as she gazed down at the spiked cocoon shielding Valeterisa. Her opponent was healing; Amerys guessed she’d broken Valeterisa’s leg. Certainly, she’d pierced the barriers.
Valeterisa was fighting back fiercely, but it wasn’t at the level that Amerys expected. She side-stepped the nigh-indetectable bolt of magic aimed at her head. Drew back a fist.
“[Glacial Grand Lightning].”
The cocoon burst. Amerys hovered in the air as Valeterisa teleported. Turned—raised her wand and fired eight shots.
[Great Arrows of Lightning] crackled past Valeterisa, missing as she performed an impressive aerial roll. She could fly, unlike the other Archmages. Only Nailihuaile might have given her this much trouble…or perhaps Uenoix if she gave him time to cast and hide. Or Verdan in his prime?
Even so. Valeterisa’s hair whipped around her, and she was bleeding from a scalp wound. She shouted.
“The city!”
Amerys glanced over her shoulder; the arrows had hit Liscor’s walls. They hadn’t destroyed the enchanted stone, but they’d left a mark.
“What of it? The worst we’ll do is leave craters.”
“If it loses its magic, the waters will flood it!”
Amerys understood and eyed Liscor with amusement, realizing how the waters surrounded it.
“Ah, that sounds like a design flaw.”
“Then don’t—”
The Archmage of Izril was pointing to a place where their running battle would not endanger the walls. Amerys inspected her opponent. Then her eyes swept to the city, where the Drake had gone running towards. She put a callous smile on her face.
“If you want to save the city, stop me. [Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
She reached up, and the Tier 6 magic began coalescing. The Archmage of Izril realized that Amerys intended to hurl it at her with Liscor as the backdrop. If she dodged, the city’s walls—
A feint. Amerys had no intention of flooding that city. She just wanted to see if the other woman rose to the bait. She saw Valeterisa’s head whirl and readied her wand; she was casting the Tier 6 spell with her non-wand hand, a clear sign she wasn’t going to actually use the spell.
Now, what are you made of? 
The Archmage of Lightning didn’t expect Valeterisa to cast a [Burst of Air] spell behind herself. Nor for the other woman to charge at her, screaming spells.
Mad—
They actually collided. Amerys had a sword of lightning in her hands. She drove it into the barrier spells, tumbling. Magical fangs closed on her arm, and she ripped them free. Blew the spell away.
A shiv of ice as cold as Cenidau—a kick infused with lightning. Tumbling; Valeterisa hit the waters as she blasted Amerys with flames. The Archmage of Chandrar threw a quartet of lightning bolts and backed away, extinguishing the flames.
Blisters on her skin. Chilblains from the frost slash. She was grinning. Her opponent was hurt far more than she was, but so close—
Don’t let her come back up. Amerys pointed her wand down. No more games now. She whirled her wand upwards.
“[Tempest of Thunder].”
The air bulged as she compressed a sonic shockwave into a pinpoint. Aimed it down at the waters. With her free hand, she concentrated, sweating. This was difficult to free-cast.
[Bind Spell: Disintegration Ray].
One or the other. One, two, three—
She spun and pointed her wand. The [Tempest of Thunder] blew apart the stone hand before it swatted her out of the air. The [Disintegration Ray] shot down, and a figure leaned out of the way and dodged it.
“Who dares?”
She shot downwards, a lightning bolt flashing from her wand at the interloper who’d interrupted her casting. A second stone fist rose from the waters and swatted at her. Ridiculous! She dodged it, fired again.
The figure didn’t move. She saw the distant [Mage] raise a hand and block her second [Lightning Bolt]. Amerys’ eyes narrowed. She glanced into the waters where Valeterisa was regrouping.
Leapt up; the grass snatched for her as it roiled.
Green magic. That’s no [Druid]. The only [Green Mage] in this area is a Viceria Strongheart. He’s way too big. 
Dullahan War Walker? The Sinew Magus?
The world spun as she stepped a clockwise dance, firing [Lightning Bolts], which he blocked with his staff or hands. Closed in with a [Grand Lightning] spell with his name on it. Whomever he was. Then she saw his figure as he turned, his beard dripping with water, planted like the very hills.
Half-Giant? Her eyes widened.
I thought they were all dead on Izril. 
Now, they are.
[Inferno Grand Lightning]. She stepped past him in the air, aiming for his back. The Archmage of Chandrar took one step, and her body turned to lightning. Not fully; the electricity shot through the air in a moment, taking her to the place she desired.
She—
—slammed against the air, her arms and legs pinned against something. Where? She was in the wrong place. She saw him then, barely ten feet tall. Eyes glowing with more magic than all of the Nomads of the Sky combined. She couldn’t move. What—?
 
——
 
Lord Mireden punched Amerys into the ground and counted.
Nine ribs. He rubbed at his chest, wincing. She’d gotten him with a [Lightning Bolt] even when he’d caught her.
“Faster than I thought.”
She was already gone. He inspected the crater in the earth. Saw a trail of lightning flickering away. When she stopped, she had a healing potion in hand.
The [Stone Spear] spell was lazy and off-target. Never meant to actually hit her. The half-Giant fired one, then another, arcing them past her as she drank, clutching at her ribs. Then he beckoned with one hand.
Her eyes narrowed, and he saw her coming at him seriously. The half-Giant saw bolts of lightning arcing up and flashing at him. He whirled his cloak.
“[Dome of the Twisted Vine].”
Colorful vines blooming with flowers of red and black rose around him, forming a dome that absorbed the barrage. The half-Giant hummed to himself as his barrier shuddered and counted.
“…two…three…”
Now. He undid the spell and pivoted a hundred and sixty degrees counterclockwise. Right on target. He fired the [Hastened Spear of Light] before the trailers of electricity showed him where she was appearing.
Hit.
She twisted, screaming in fury, and fell—but she didn’t fall back. She came towards him, and Lord Moore raised his fist again.
[Hand of the Stone Giant]. That was the obvious spell that conjured massive blocks of earth and stone into a hand that could crush a foe or sweep aside enemies. The trick that caught her twice was the second spell.
[Create Element: Magnetized Iron]. A core of it in the palm of the prepared spell caught Amerys. Her lightning was still just…electricity. She slammed into place, and Moore closed the hand.
He began reinforcing the cage—then sensed her mana amplifying. Grunting, the half-Giant tried to squeeze the hand tighter, reinforce the seals. It should be locking her mana! It—
The spell exploded. The half-Giant shielded his face as the blowback of the spell rocked him. He swatted a piece of magical stone away from his head.
“Well, that’s unpleasant.”
That worked in the future, damn it. Had she somehow figured out what he was doing from the first time? Or was he just not the right level? The half-Giant grunted.
“The hard way it is.”
He waited as the water bulged upwards. The Archmage of Lightning emerged, no longer looking like the graceful dancer. Water dripped from her robes, and her hair was dishevelled. She locked eyes with him.
“Before I kill you, your name?”
He planted the staff cut from Oteslia’s tree and spoke.
“Lord Mireden Raithland. You threaten my city, Archmage of Lightning. I intend to punish you for it.”
The waters moved, and Archmage Valeterisa erupted upwards. She was encased in a swirling orb of magical chains and whirling air. Some kind of advanced defensive barrier. She seemed surprised not to be dragged upwards. When she saw him, her eyes widened. Lord Moore just nodded to her.
“Both of you. No one is above the law.”
“What? Lord M-Mireden, thank you for—”
He clapped his hands together, and the [Shockwave of Air] spell blew both Archmages into the water. The half-Giant swept his staff around, and an [Earthen Spire] carried him higher. He stepped off it onto a second one as his footrest exploded from below. Walking as he swung his staff left.
[Thornspray]—a Tier 1 spell magnified a hundredfold. It hit the Archmage of Chandrar, and she rose and whirled, firing a [Lightning Bolt] at him. He caught it and shook out his hand. As if it didn’t hurt like all hells.
“Mireden! [Dispel Illusions]! It’s me! Desist your attacks!”
Valeterisa rose from the waters, and the half-Giant felt bad, but she was a wide-open target. The [Hammer of the Mountain King] hit her back into the waters and produced a second shower of rain. He swept the hammer around, and it blocked another [Lightning Bolt]. Then the hammer’s face exploded outwards.
Another spray of [Stone Fist] spells this time, heavier and homing. One caught Archmage Amerys and visibly clipped her. Physical enchantments or not, he saw her shoulder pivot with the blow and knew it had hurt.
Valeterisa rose from the waters a third time with a six-layer shield on her. She was still confused; Amerys zipped backwards, charging up a spell. Lord Mireden felt all the scrying spells focus on him and smiled for the cameras.
He could not deny the ebullience was genuine. He was still a bit of a child. Still an adventurer.  His every nerve was straining, waiting for the next attack, but he spoke, voice booming.
“The law of Liscor applies to everyone! No one, not [Archmage] nor [Innkeeper], stands above it! Without the law, we are anarchy! I am Lord Mireden of Raithland. As a sworn member of Liscor’s Watch and citizen of Liscor, I demand you both surrender and cease your magical battle. Refuse and I will pull both of you from the skies.”
The effrontery. The gall. When Valeterisa realized he wasn’t here to help her, but blaming her for the battle, her gasping outrage and genuine hurt left her speechless.
Amerys’ reply was more concise.
[Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant]. A spell of such magnitude it parted the very waters. Cast everything into stark relief, white and blackness—
Like the damned [Heroes] of his time. Lord Mireden gritted his teeth and planted his staff in front of the bolt he’d known was coming. He leaned forwards and parted the spell with his staff.
The flash of the Tier 6 spell spread across the Floodplains, twin snakes flashing from hilltop to hilltop, trying to ground itself, and then, against the convention laws of physics, rising upwards, streaking back towards the sky to magnetize the very clouds.
All of it in a single, eye-blinding flash of power. But the target of this spell had not moved. He had cut the spell in half with his staff. A single spell.
“[Blade of Adamantium].”
His entire body was moving slow. Half-paralyzed despite the [Greater Lightning Ward] and the [Damage Shield] he’d used. But Amerys didn’t know that. He saw, on her face, genuine alarm for a moment, and the half-Giant smiled.
He cracked his neck once.
“Is that all? My turn. You invoke my forebears lightly, Archmage. This is real lightning. [Thunderbolt of the Lightning Giant].”
He fired the same spell back in her face and watched the skies divide. She dodged it, and he doubted it did much damage; she was probably practically immune to most lightning spells. But it was enough to see her face. For them to see her face.
Movement from the side—Lord Mireden swung his staff, and a wave of water rose, forty feet high, and slammed Valeterisa down. She cried out, and he thundered.
“Surrender or face me, Archmages of Wistram! You are not the only [Mages] in this world. Nor the finest.”
He saw her rolling upright, surrounded by four layers of shields, and then there was ire in her eyes. And hurt. Mireden avoided her gaze, for he was guilty, but it must be done.
Valeterisa retaliated with a [Siege Fireball]. Since his [Blade of the Adamantium] hadn’t expired, he cut it in half, and the flames baked his clothing and skin dry. He replied with an oversized [Stone Fist] spell as Valeterisa darted back. She was staring at him, probably thinking he had some kind of ward spell up.
He did—but it was mostly just his skin.
A small part of the power of Giants. Lord Mireden heard a voice crackling down from the skies.
“Half-Giant.”
Ah, good. She was losing her temper. He smiled superiorly as Amerys shot down from the clouds and braced. She dodged wide of him this time, skimming over the waters, keeping away from the iron that could lock her down—she passed over a hill, and an [Earthen Spire] punched up, almost taking her out—Lord Moore grunted.
Archmage Valeterisa popped out of the waters, and the second [Siege Fireball] hit the half-Giant in the back. The roar of flames as the spell burst against his enchanted cloak and clothing was a symphony with the strikes of lightning Amerys called down on both.
The half-Giant turned, brushing magical fire off his shoulders. Amerys and Valeterisa eyed him. No barrier spells, they realized. Just a [Body of Mithril]. His features glinted metallically for a moment. The half-Giant said:
“Ow.”
 
——
 
It was a three-way battle, not a duel. Another tradition as old as the duels of magic was the potential for a third party to enter the fight. Backstabbing treachery or the gall to take on both parties.
But against two Archmages? Noass’ and Sir Relz’s mouths were open.
“Who—who is that? A half-Giant? I thought the last one had perished!”
Grimalkin of Pallass was just as stunned, but for different reasons than the Drakes. He, of course, recognized Lord Moore. But what was the man doing? He had stated he intended to lay low!
“That half-Giant is brave, but he’s made a mistake. I don’t care what level he is, he is against the two greatest [Mages] we have ever seen.”
Sir Relz asserted, and Grimalkin responded instinctively.
“Once again, incorrect! If there is anyone who can fight these two, it would be…him.”
“Inconceivable, Sinew Magus! Against one, nay, two Archmages? Who is that?”
Sir Relz spun in his chair, and Grimalkin shook his head, eyes on Lord Moore. He was conjuring earth magic to his defense. [Earthen Pillars], thorns, and the evergreen—it was a pure contrast against Amerys’ lightning magic. Archmage Valeterisa was the only generalist of the lot, throwing any spell she found worthy into the three-way fight. However, it seemed both she and Lord Moore were focusing on Amerys, who was now dodging constantly, pressed by both spellcasters.
“He can do it. He’s…”
Everyone watching leaned in, Sir Relz and Noass with their eyes wide, the audience’s. They saw the Sinew Magus hesitate, mouth open. Then he cast around.
“…er, name?”
He didn’t know the half-Giant’s name? Sir Relz and Noass turned, calling for the same. And the embarrassed Sinew Magus held his tongue, because he knew Lord Moore’s name—just not the one he was adopting.
It was Lady Pryde who snapped her fingers and leaned over.
“That is Lord Raithland. Lord Mireden Raithland, the uncle of Moore of the Halfseekers.”
“Right, of course. Thank you, Pryde.”
He nodded in relief at her, and Sir Relz sniffed. He glared at Lady Pryde, then looked at Grimalkin. The Sinew Magus ignored the stare.
“What is he thinking? He can’t take on both of them. They’re pressing the Archmage of Chandrar, but she’s…”
Even he could tell from afar: Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, was losing her temper.
 
——
 
Magic duel. Magic duel.
Much would be said and picked apart afterwards. The battle would be picked apart and analyzed in classrooms, where [Mages] who had never seen combat would lecture students about how each [Mage] should have moved properly or made the correct decision in the microseconds of reaction and intuition between life and death.
The spellcasting, the analysis of their attack patterns and positioning, had one of the finest commentators in the world: Magus Grimalkin. Those who observed the battle, from House Shoel to the Blighted Kingdom’s battlemagi to Az’kerash, could find little fault in the Drake’s impromptu callouts and measure of the battle.
Yet all of it was meaningless. For those outsiders would never know what the three [Mages] saw in each other. Locked in mortal strife, their magics colliding, they beheld something far different. Each one was a different kind of [Mage], and they could not outmatch the other two in the first frenzied minutes of combat.
Amerys, the challenging predator, swept across the Floodplains in the air, never-ceasing her movements, each action deliberate and deadly. Like some kind of wren or strange bird in truth.
Her wings were lightning, and her steps resembled that of a dancer; a deadly bird who struck and struck again, but found her first true opponent in the half-Giant.
If she was the everfleet, uncatchable advent of storms, he resembled one of the creatures of the Floodplains. A stubborn Rock Crab, perhaps, hiding behind a shell. Immovable; he did not fly and would merely scuttle from hill to hill when he needed to. But where the other two dodged, he would endure.
His hand alone blocked their magic, and his magic seemed lumbering and cumbersome at times, but each blow might be deadly if only it landed. Whenever they dodged too lightly, a spray of needles piercing their barriers would remind them that flightless though he was, he could easily bring them down.
And how were you supposed to bring him down? They tried, striking him with Tier 4 spells, Tier 5, but he allowed no greater magic. Each time a spell touched him, they felt it.
Like fighting a hill itself. They barely chipped his body, let alone his resolve. The two swooping Archmages were loath to close with him…and his presence made this three-way battle a stalemate. Attack one foe and the other would have your back.
But, then, if Archmage Amerys was the bird of lightning and Lord Moore the wrath of hills hurling stones at the sky, what was Archmage Valeterisa? The Archmage of Izril, who was neither [Green Mage] nor [Lightning Mage]?
She was…a hermit crab, maybe? Or a flying rolly-polly?
It was hard to say. The other two were beings of dedicated magic. Amerys was the focused culmination of battle-magic. Lord Moore a combination of both his class as [Lord] and his nature as well as his green magic; an unshiftable warrior skilled in might as well as spellcraft.
But what was Valeterisa? They saw it between her spells that undid their magic. The elegant [Scholar]’s spells that unmade one of Lord Raithland’s hands of stone, that parried a [Lightning Bolt] with a mirror.
Here was someone who loved magic itself. Who had studied so many avenues and means of it she was no one thing, like them. It was rare to find someone who did not specialize in a single idea at their level.
If she was any one thing, Valeterisa was like…a multi-headed edifice, some artificial building built higglety-pigglety, going in strange directions where its creator had gotten side-tracked. Or, if she was like a hermit crab, some kind of hoarder of knowledge. Shelled; her barriers protecting her, but ungainly with it.
A hermit crab with a knife, to be fair; her spells had the sharp edge of someone able and willing to kill, but she was not the same as them. Yet she was exchanging battle with the two, a brave crab waving its knife at a hill that walked and thunder’s wings sent from Reim.
Just one thing, though. Lord Mireden paused, breathing raggedly as his shards of iron-infused arrows tore the air, collecting Amerys’ lightning and forcing the Archmage of Lightning into ever-more-convoluted dodges.
She was no longer unwounded; Valeterisa had realized the potential of earth-magic to counter the Archmage of Lightning. She and Mireden regarded each other warily as Amerys flickered back into the air, high into the sky.
Amerys’ teeth were bared, and she was grinding them together as she felt at the cuts on her cheeks. She clutched at the ribs that Lord Moore had broken, then nodded.
“I don’t know who you are, half-Giant. But you brawl like a hidden legend. I’ve met your kind before. There’s always a retired [Hero] or an old man with Torreb’s strength. Which tale is yours?”
“One not yet told. Will you surrender peaceably, Archmage?”
The half-Giant retorted, and Amerys chuckled. Her voice went gravelly, then deep.
“Surrender? Oh, you do annoy me. There’s nothing I hate more than superior [Mages]. We’re all of us such a ridiculous lot. None worse than hybrid caster-warriors like you.”
“I prefer caster-lord. I have noticed the Archmages of Wistram cannot take a punch. Two, in your case, I suspect. Would you care to prove me wrong?”
He was smiling up at her, needling the Archmage of Chandrar. She began to chuckle. Then giggle.
“Uh oh.”
Valeterisa had been floating backwards, hoping the two would forget her when she heard that familiar giggle. She remembered that. She began casting barrier spells as Lord Moore frowned.
“Something funny, Archmage Amerys?”
He didn’t know. However he had such knowledge of Amerys, enough to seemingly predict how she moved and counter her magic—he’d never heard her snap. Valeterisa had seen that happen twice.
First, the Archmage of Chandrar giggled. She grinned, blood running from the corners of her mouth, humbled and wounded. Then her eyes flashed, and she snapped. And went calm.
Everyone thought her title was a joke given her inability to keep her temper or control of her tongue. But like the Titan of Baleros, there was a truth to the name. Amerys exhaled, and the rumbling of thunder died down. She gazed up at the rain soaking the Floodplains, then she lifted her hands.
A tempo began to pulse in the background of noise. A strange, racing sound, like a heartbeat going too fast.
Lord Mireden hesitated as, above him, Amerys planted her feet in the air. She stopped floating like a dancer and stretched out one hand. The other dropped with her legs, lowering her center of gravity.
It looked like…a stance? Lord Moore wavered and glanced over his shoulder. Valeterisa was using him and his hill as cover. The half-Giant tugged at his beard as he held his staff warily.
“Is this dance-magic? You may have us in that. I have two left feet.”
His comment failed to elicit a flare of temper this time. The Archmage of Chandrar’s face was cool as she focused on him.
“No.”
The rain pattered down as Moore prepared another iron spell. He shifted, uneasy. He didn’t remember this from his memories of seeing her fight.
“What do you call it then?”
The Archmage of Chandrar murmured as she closed her eyes.
“Pomle.”
The half-Giant’s eyes widened. He raised his staff. Falling Giants, not—
She kicked him. He even saw it coming, albeit so fast he was still tracking her as she shot straight down and flashed over the waters. Her kick went under his quarterstaff, and the half-Giant felt the most novel of sensations.
He flew.
—Landed, ribs singing how much that hurt, coughing, and lashed out with his staff. She wasn’t in front of him. She’d gone around—
“Ulp!”
Valeterisa hit the waters as Amerys pivoted. She threw a punch—then danced back before his quarterstaff could land.
Feinted? Or had she seen the blow? He couldn’t tell. She spun one leg out in a circle, hopped—
He blocked this kick, and his boots skidded in the mud. The force! The Archmage of Lightning hopped backwards. His staff struck high-low, but caught only wisps of lightning. She was standing on another hill.
“Moore. Lord Moore—”
Lord Moore was no longer smiling. He spoke, as Valeterisa rose, panting.
“Raithland. Truce, Valeterisa?”
“Truce. She’s casting something big.”
They both felt it. The half-Giant murmured.
“Then it’s time for a capstone Skill. [Aspect of the Stone Giant].”
He did not grow in size. Nor did the magic swirling around him intensify. His skin just turned to stone. Amerys tilted her head.
“Strange. [Disintegration Ray]. Ah.”
She pointed a finger at him, and Lord Mireden Raithland didn’t move. The spell touched his cheek, and the tiniest pock-mark of stone vanished. His voice rumbled as Valeterisa stared at him, then floated backwards.
“Try again.”
Her answer was a smile. Valeterisa pointed her wand.
“[Arcane Disjunction]!”
She tried to halt whatever Amerys was doing, but the ray just…missed. The woman reappeared in the air, and Lord Moore swore under his breath despite his Skill as he felt the entire Floodplains around them take on a charge.
He gazed down, and the half-Giant wearing the face of his forebears saw a little creature fluttering upwards. A…butterfly, perhaps. If one could be made of electricity. It lit on a blade of grass, turning the sodden plant matter black, and it was one of thousands of little insects made of sparks. Valeterisa twisted around.
“Oh no. She’s—I’ve heard of this.”
The half-Giant spoke as Amerys exhaled.
“[Battlefield: Fields of Blooming Lightning]. The books said it looks like flowers blooming.”
He eyed the static discharges of lightning dancing over the water.
“It’s more abstract than I thought. Be careful. She can appear anywhere in this field. And she’s using physical attacks. I will counter her.”
He trusted to his Level 50 Skill that he had earned from slaying the Mother of Graves. The Archmage of Chandrar was smiling down at him.
She appeared behind him without so much as a flicker. Thunder boomed off his back, and he felt the stabs of pain faintly. How hard were the blows—?
[Staff Art: Storm of Lances]. One blow clipped her, and she staggered, but her odd swaying dodges were quick. Valeterisa shot flames at Amerys, cutting off her retreat, but she just…vanished.
Lightning—she drop-kicked Valeterisa from above, and the half-Giant pointed his staff at the hostile Archmage. She was gone before he could even unleash—then she was under him.
Palm strike.
He heard the cracks of his transmuted skin and grunted. He just had to grab her! Grab her and not let go and—
His fingers closed on sparks. He whirled.
Skill. His staff rose. [Twenty-Foot Sweep]. [Swift Strike]. And [Wall of Metal: Iron]. Lock her down and hit her.
He conjured the wall of metal and put his back to it, disguising the metal to look like rocks. He didn’t care if she realized it was a trap. Either she switched to magic again or she came at him.
The half-Giant saw Amerys appear on a hilltop. She tilted her head at him and nodded. He tensed; now. He was prepared to barely see her coming. But he wasn’t prepared for her to speak.
“[Overdrive: The Marionette’s Rebellion].”
Oh no. He felt that familiar sensation he’d observed so many times. A crawl across his skin—not of unease, but of time itself warping.
Something being unleashed. A box opening. And he saw the Archmage hanging in the air for a moment. Arms suspended. Like a puppet hanging from invisible strings.
Or a woman in chains.
Weapon art. He had t—
Another skill was on his lips and he was lifting his staff when Amerys—flickered. The green-haired woman, suspended in the air, vanished. Appeared before him.
Mireden took the first four blows to his chest before he realized she was there. Another seven as his arms bulged and he swung the staff. He never roared any words; they were choked with pain and the impacts punching the very air from his lungs.
Lord Mireden swung his staff desperately, but her combination of blows and punches was a Skill. An art; she swung under the staff before lashing out, a rhythm of strikes and kicks to every part of his body she could reach. She hung in the air, striking his chin with repeated kicks until, with a roar, he finally clubbed her.
She wasn’t dodging. But despite the desperate blow, she merely—rotated, twisting, limbs askew, as if he’d hit that puppet. Then she twisted her head around. Turned towards the second target.
Valeterisa’s barriers exploded so fast the shockwaves hit Mireden as he staggered. Then Valeterisa slammed into his side. He tasted his blood. But how…?
His [Aspect of the Stone Giant] had deactivated.
That can’t have been five minutes. Did I pass the damage threshold? He tried to breathe, and his ribs creaked. His skin was punctured. She’d broken a rib, and the bone was protruding through his skin.
Amerys’ jerking movements came to a halt as the half-Giant raised a wall of stone to shield the two of them. The Skill ended. Mireden’s back was still against the far wall of the dome, and Valeterisa was drinking a healing potion. Eyes wide.
This insane—
Amerys’ voice came from beyond the wall, husky. As if the Skill had done some damage to her, if only mental. A skill made out of her experiences.
Suffering—the insane wave of attacks from someone who had been unable to move, unable to so much as twitch for months, over a year.
Those fools at Wistram had just made her even more deadly.
“I’ve always thought it was funny. Every [Mage] I’ve ever met trusts to magic. So few of them have an attack Skill except hybrids. As if we can’t invent our own.”
“Well…”
The half-Giant rasped, but he had no more smart replies. Valeterisa tried to get up, then clutched at her stomach. She nearly puked before halting it with a spell. There was a crack-thwoom of magic; Amerys had either kicked the wall or hit it with magic. Lord Moore raised the walls and encircled them until a dome of stone was protecting them. He sealed it with iron and then grabbed a healing potion and drank it.
“I knew that was coming…but not the attack Skill. I thought—with ten years, she was within reach! What a monster.”
No wonder she was undefeated in her time. Valeterisa was leaning on one of his legs; she looked worse than he felt by far. She’d had to battle Amerys alone until he’d stepped in. Dizzy and sick; she must be nearing mana burn. The Archmage of Izril’s eyes narrowed. She adjusted her cracked spectacles and stared up at him. Then recoiled.
“You orchestrated this?”
The half-Giant winced as a rib snapped back into place. Their shelter shook again as Ameys hit it.
“It’s nothing personal. It just seemed to be the most convenient option. For the election.”
She was staring at him, open-mouthed, as if she hadn’t also manipulated events for personal gain. Although—the half-Giant glanced up.
He’d really thought it would be easier than this! They were all the same level! Two of them versus Amerys—she hadn’t even needed to call in backup! He turned to Valeterisa.
“I’ll buy time for you to use your highest-tier spells. We will discuss this later, Valeterisa. Valeterisa, she will try to kill us both. You’re a rational woman. D—”
 
——
 
Amerys was calmly firing [Grand Lightning] at the dome, waiting for an opening. She expected a unified counterattack.
Even in her ‘calm’ state, she didn’t expect the dome to explode from the inside. A huge chunk of earth landed behind Amerys in the water, and the half-Giant went tumbling out of the inside, covered in flames.
“Huh. That’s pretty funny.”
She was running out of mana, and she had only two potion’s worth left before she was in mana burn. Her kick took Valeterisa off her feet.
Time to finish this.
 
——
 
“Dead gods, she invented a combat art?”
Even Grimalkin had gone quiet after they’d seen Amerys unleashing one of her trump cards. That was the only thing Noass could really think to say.
That…
It was fair, in the sense that of course a [Warrior] who had a [Sword Art] was capable of feats on par with magic. He’d heard of people like Orjin of Pomle pulling the same stunt off. But letting Amerys invent a combat-Skill…it just seemed sort of like cheating!
“She is the Archmage of Lightning. The King of Destruction’s Seven. That is no idle boast. She was always thought to be the closest person to the [Archmage] class in Wistram. Lord Mireden and Archmage Valeterisa are supremely talented magi. But we are seeing the pinnacle of the Waning World.”
It was Magus Grimalkin who spoke as the fight reached its turning point. He never took his eyes off the scrying orb as Sir Relz whispered. His scales were white.
“No wonder she was able to battle Zeres to a standstill. W-what a monster. And there are, what, five more like her? I—I feel like I have been unfair in my commentary to Chandrarian nations. No wonder it takes an army to hold one of the Seven at bay! How can any nation hope to curtail the King of Reim? Countermeasures of some kind must be taken against her! She’s too powerful for this era!”
He was babbling. Grimalkin didn’t appear to hear Sir Relz, though. For his next words made no sense as a reply. Or perhaps they did, but only to himself and few others.
“Yes. She must be so lonely.”
Lady Pryde’s bagged head turned to him, and the two Drakes goggled mutely. Grimalkin’s eyes were locked on Amerys’ serene face.
“I wonder…yes, now I wonder how it must be to hold back an entire Skill and modality of fighting simply because no foe has forced it out of her. She did not do this in Wistram. She is supremely alone, even amongst the Seven. The only living spellcaster among them. But she is not alone, is she? I see it now. In Reim, she has the only peers in the world. In another nation, even one such as Pallass, she would be, what, one of two? Saliss and Chaldion and, perhaps, Pelt.”
He shook his head.
“Moreover, she has a [King] who is a peer, who does not fear her, as they once feared Perril Chandler. Yes. I wonder…does she associate with the other Seven? What do they do to relax? To have fun? Perhaps this, as much as Flos Reimarch’s charisma, is what drew them together.”
He was pontificating. As if this engagement nearing its end were but an idle scrap. Yet he was not oblivious. Lady Pryde touched Grimalkin’s arm. Or tried to; Sir Relz saw her doing it from behind the table, and his hand shot out.
He knocked Pryde’s hand down before it was visible on camera. They stared at each other, and she hesitated. Grimalkin didn’t notice the strange oddities behind him. He was just…nodding.
“Yes. That is an apt comparison. They said that when both were alive…it is speculated that the Archmage of Golems, Zelkyr, and the Archmage of Death were this level when they made their ill-fated attempt to slay the Demon King. It is speculated that for most of their lives, they were this level, and it has been argued Zelkyr never reached a higher capstone.”
Every eye turned to Grimalkin, and Noass croaked.
“What? What level?”
The Sinew Magus gave him a slow blink, as if Noass were an imbecile.
“Level 60, of course. It is possible they reached Level 70, especially Az’kerash, but this is the level she hangs upon. Or do you disagree, Noass?”
He nodded at the image of Amerys. The Sinew Magus locked eyes on the Archmage of Chandrar pursuing Valeterisa, who was fleeing. Back towards the inn.
“She is closer than not to that level. But not, I think, Level 60. Archmage Valeterisa and Lord Mireden are of parity with her, but she outlevels them in combat experience and levels, I suspect. See; Lord Mireden is leaping from hill to hill, but he cannot keep up with the other two. Valeterisa cannot best Archmage Amerys. I thought she could, but—”
He whirled.
“Torreb, the greatest [Warrior], was above Level 60. Mars is the only confirmed member of the King’s Seven who can boast of the same. To compare her to the other Seven is a laughable notion. Not all levels and classes are equal, regardless. This is a mere academic distinction. If I live, I will present my conclusions drawn from personal experience.”
He was trying to navigate around the tangle of chairs and the film equipment when Noass and Sir Relz realized what he meant. The Drakes gasped.
“You’re going to—Sinew Magus, you cannot! This is madness! You’re not Level 50!”
Relz’s jaws snapped shut since that was a military secret, but the Sinew Magus just turned back once.
“This is true.”
“Then—”
“Archmage Valeterisa is a friend, and Lord Mireden is one I hope to call friend. I must go.”
There was an echo in his voice that an Eye of Pallass, watching the broadcast, heard. The simple statement as the Sinew Magus squared his shoulders. Sir Relz shot to his feet.
“Stop him! We can’t lose—”
He tried to tackle Grimalkin and just slid down his torso. Noass was on his feet, and the film staff tried to stop the Sinew Magus. They hadn’t a chance; he just moved them aside gently but urgently.
Someone was hesitating. Not Grimalkin, but the woman who stood there, looking at the Archmage of Chandrar. Then the Drake resolved to fight or die. She reached out, and Sir Relz knocked her hand away again.
Again, Lady Pryde hesitated, uncharacteristically or characteristically if you truly knew her—like Lady Bethal and Lady Magnolia, who both still called her friend, even if the reverse was not true. But Pryde would always stand. So she did and took Grimalkin’s arm with a grip gentler than anyone else’s.
But he halted.
“Grimalkin. No. You cannot. You’re not prepared. You…don’t. Please, don’t.”
Her voice was husky, barely audible to the cameras. Sir Relz glanced at her as Grimalkin turned, and his normally-booming voice had gone silent. He swallowed, visibly, as he tried to say something to her, and the [Commentator] made his mistake. This time, he moved between the two and shoved Pryde back.
“Sinew Magus! May I ask who this—this Human [Lady] is to you? This is a Pallassian matter, not for outsiders!”
He glowered at Pryde as every eye in the studio swung to Grimalkin. And here, Noass opened his mouth, because he had realized something Sir Relz had not.
Peer pressure. Social pressure. The weight of the consequences of his actions.
What of it? It was mere weight to the Sinew Magus. His shrug of the shoulders was a lift and curl as he drew them back. He spoke with a clear voice as he placed a hand on Pryde’s shoulder and hugged her.
“Lady Pryde Ulta is the recipient of my affections and admirations, Sir Relz. She has every right to speak to me and ask me anything in the world.”
He paused. And Noass closed his eyes and sat back as Pallass, nay, Drakekind stared at Grimalkin, who was…the Sinew Magus rubbed at his chin.
“Hm. I realize I often dance around the truth. We are…dating. Which sounds too juvenile. We are romantic partners? I love her. And, ah. I do not want to lose her.”
He looked into her eyes then wavered as he glanced at the scrying orb. Noass reached over and slapped a magical rune.
The image of Grimalkin and Pryde holding each other’s hands shut off across the world. Commercials started playing on the news. The complaints began pouring in by the thousand the next minute. Half Drake, half Human.
But the Drake and Human that mattered didn’t move. He was bent over, gazing into her eyes; she refused to let him go, and his resolve wavered in that moment.
This was a love story.
But this was not the time.
 
——
 
There was something…righteous about the way it ended, Valeterisa thought. It was not fair, but it was. Even in magic, the stronger one dictated events.
It was savage, an antithetical system to the one she wished for. But it was the one that existed and had played out throughout history. And wasn’t it an honor?
It was her. Amerys. The being who they had all looked up to, for all her infamy. The [Mage] who was pride and power on the battlefield. The closest one to what they were supposed to be, but for Zelkyr.
Oh, she was beautiful as she descended, a strange wren made of lightning. She struck Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril cried out, but no one could help her.
Not the inn, not the distant Mireden trying to catch them, or the running Drake crying her name. Amerys was too close, darting around. Unassailable in her supremacy.
Tired…yes, that too. Valeterisa knew her opponent did not have forever to spend her energies, but like the veteran she was, she had calculated the point of no return, and she had not hit it yet. Now, she was doing what Valeterisa did.
Looting a random encounter. Or maybe a <Quest>. That was funny, ha-ha, just not right now.
<Heroic Quest — Beat the Archmage of Izril! (And possibly some half-Giant from the future.)>
It wasn’t a <Mythical Quest> she was pretty sure. Alas…
The stray thoughts jumbled together as Valeterisa hit the ground. She cried out. Her [Parallel Thoughts] were going nonstop. It was that or face the pain, the exhaustion, the burning mana in her veins.
Valeterisa-Movement: Body not working. Get up, get up—
Valeterisa-Analysis: Her positioning is superior. Without preparation, we cannot strike her. If we only had time to cast spells which could account for her magic.
Valeterisa-Bravery: Montressa and Relc made it out. Job done. Go out swinging.
Valeterisa-Cold: Overload your mana circuits. Take her with you.
Valeterisa-Emotions: I’m afraid. Maybe…
A blow scrambled everything. She was reaching for her wand, but the Archmage of Lightning was chaining her kicks and punches. No time for Valeterisa to mount a counteroffensive. She was…after her goal.
Then, the Archmage of Izril saw it. The belated realization as she wondered why that last round of blows that had destroyed her barrier hadn’t killed her. She was a limp ragdoll being tossed around, but Amerys had enough force to make Valeterisa literally explode with a kick.
Aside from not wishing to get her feet dirty, why prolong the risk? The answer was simple.
Amerys was a liar.
 
——
 
A [Message] spell came in as the Archmage of Chandrar concluded her hunt, circling her weakening opponent much like a predator in the wilds. She refused to lose concentration in this moment; this was where a mistake would cost her greatly. But if she made no mistakes, the outcome was clear.
Hence, the [Message]. There were hundreds who might try to contact Amerys in this moment; she would have ignored even the King of Destruction’s words, but not this one. It came from the inn, and Amerys’ eyes flickered as she swept past a desperate hail of light-shards coming from below.
Lyonette: You’ve won. We have a ballista, and Bird the Huntress does not miss. Nor does Elia. Kill her, and you won’t draw a second breath.
 
Many had threatened her. But this one she would have taken seriously…if it mattered. For Amerys had never intended to risk the inn’s wrath.
She wasn’t…targetting Valeterisa’s life. She was flitting around Valeterisa as the Archmage of Izril pivoted, trying to fly, kicking, slashing with a small blade made of lightning. At Valeterisa’s side. She even tried to grab—
“No!”
Valeterisa’s fingers sprayed deadly shards of crystal, and the Archmage of Lightning vanished, but she was on the attack again. Towards the only thing that mattered.
Valeterisa’s bag of holding. Her life’s work. Her notes, her spells…all collected in the one place that would always come with her. As Amerys had said, it was there.
So much was in Valeterisa’s head. But even she could not encompass it all. Now, like the hunting bird she was, Amerys had come for the true treasure. She was a thief! A dirty mugging thief, no wren or even magpie, but a swallow made of thunder and electricity!
“Nonono. Please…don’t—”
Valeterisa was holding the bag of holding in her hands. Trying to shield it with her body, forgetting it would be so much easier to kill her. But that was who she was. A [Mage] who loved magic.
The Archmage of Chandrar saw it all. Her eyes were locked on the bag of holding as she thrust a tiny object forwards, darted away as Valeterisa swept flames across the Floodplains at her. And Lord Moore had stopped chasing, perhaps considering this a small price to pay to avoid death.
The needle made of lightning was attached to a crackling string. Amerys yanked, and Valeterisa felt her bag of holding coming undone. The precious dimensional space she had enchanted herself wavered…and she felt it begin to disgorge its contents, the emergency failsafe to avoid wholesale destruction.
“Stop!”
She reached out, and the magic of the bag of holding wavered. For a second, she held the dimensional space together, and Amerys drew in a breath. But the Archmage of Izril’s control slipped—and then it began to spill.
An Archmage’s treasures began to fly upwards into the air and rain. Not what you thought: artifacts or precious reagents. Montressa had all that in her bag of holding or the Chest of Holding they used.
Valeterisa only kept what was most precious to her: paper. Enchanted scrolls of ancient vellum. Magical hide, scavenged pieces of faded writings. Re-copied notes on pieces of simple paper written with a neat clear hand.
Her notes. Her theorems. Her formulas, the magic she had yet to uncover, or things she thought she understood. Everything, oh, everything.
Not just thousands of pieces of paper. Tens of thousands…even more. Fluttering upwards, then falling in the rain. How much could you cram into a bag of holding made by an Archmage?
Valeterisa reached for it with a cry like her chest was splitting open. She tried to call them back to her—but there was a flicker of lightning. Pages vanished.
Amerys swooped around the wailing Archmage of Izril, collecting her notes. When Valeterisa tried to stop her, a blow to her chest sent her crashing into the waters. She reached up as she surfaced, trying to protect it.
Glowing magic written with such delicacy that no picture from any device could ever encompass it was floating down, ignoring the rain trying to bring the paper into the water where it would be lost forever.
The water had stopped falling. Gravity…Amerys had cast a gravity spell. She was darting around, picking the papers up, but there were more than she had dreamed of. Valeterisa’s lips moved.
My great work. Amerys was not just grabbing everything; she was targeting what she knew was the most valuable, what could not be copied because it was the language of spells itself, writ on paper.
Her notes on the lost magical art she had spent eight years of her life—no, decades pursuing. They were hanging in the air, a tapestry of glittering hope and despair.
Valeterisa couldn’t breathe. She was reaching up, forgetting she was an Archmage. Just a girl pleading for the Archmage to give her life’s work back. Eyes streaming with water trying in vain to memorize all she was losing.
So close. It was all so close. The future had said so. She had been given all the hints, had worked for years without sleep or rest, knowing the conclusion was there. Just unable to make that final leap of genius with all the pieces assembled.
Like a blacksmith’s puzzle, she had told Relc once. Only, the hardest in the world. Imagine a puzzle beyond complicated that you had to solve. But all in one move. And if you didn’t do it perfectly…you couldn’t understand it.
A part of her raged at Amerys. Take it, then, and be damned with it! But even that part was sobbing the wrath.
The worst part? The very worst was that there was so very little malice in Amerys’ eyes as she hovered there, collecting the notes. She could have killed Valeterisa, but she had never come for war.
I greatly admire you. I misjudged you. We could have been great friends. Greater enemies.
There was no true rage, just the heat of battle. No hatred. Just a strange desperation in Amerys. The desperation of one of the world’s greatest [Mages] who had seen the ceiling of her ambitions. Who saw Eldavin rising, the moon cracking, and knew she had to improve or die.
She was framed above the spiral of notes hovering in the air. In her, Valeterisa saw a door opened in that [Palace]. A place where the two might have been those things. A lifetime of regrets, of things she had not done.
Found Relc sooner.
Found Montressa sooner.
Been kinder.
Been wiser.
Done more for the people she loved.
Sacrificed less.
Saved more.
But she had sacrificed it all, all of it, always, for the thing she had told Montressa was worth it.
Magic. Magic alone. Now it was stolen. Hanging there.
It was not fair that you could steal that of all she had. Valeterisa’s eyes were wide, her glasses missing. Even Amerys halted, an expression of surprised guilt on her face. For the Archmage just lay in the waters, gazing upwards.
She could remember writing every word above her. Every symbol. Not…not consciously, but she had done it. The symphony of notes that no one but magic’s children could hear. The stairway to the future she had built out of nothing but thought.
Valeterisa had never seen it all like this. Never unspooled, exploded into the skies. A bubble of her thoughts surrounding her, presented in a way she had never thought of. Her grey eyes swam with tears, blurring the magic. Distorting it.
Clouds as lovely as the rains of Liscor, Relc had once said of her eyes, which had hurt her feelings until he clarified that was a compliment. Not very magical eyes, really, not like Amerys’. Just grey. Distant fog obscuring a realm beyond imagining. Like the mists of the secrets she had tried so long to unravel.
Amerys, meeting that gaze with effort, saw in the swirling vortex of Valeterisa’s irises the lines of magic coalescing, like an idea of ten thousand pages coming together to a single meaning.
Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, hung there a moment like a bewitched predator seeing a hypnotic pattern. The lights flickered in Valeterisa’s tear-studded eyes, and then…Amerys saw the grey clouds part.
“What…?”
A ray of color she had no words for, the color of magic, shot from those eyes. Just a sliver of radiance that Amerys thought was her imagination. A hallucination. Then the eyes blinked…and the color brightened.
“Oh. Is that what it is? I wrote a circle around it.”
The faint voice from below was audible in the stilled rains. Amerys glanced around at the papers hanging there. Then down.
No.
It couldn’t be. The other woman was in denial. Valeterisa had hit her head too hard; snapped from the stress of losing…her eyes.
The sliver of magic called to Amerys. The Archmage of Lightning reached down.
“What…what do you see?”
She had never beheld that gaze among the living. Not even the image of Archmage Eldavin, that smug genius. Nor even in the rare records of Silvenia Ettertree’s eyes. Just once, Amerys remembered seeing that.
Just…once. In a picture of that Drake that someone had found before it had been confiscated by his last servant. That monstrous, arrogant fool who had still done the impossible. Archmage Zelkyr, the Drake who had rediscovered what was lost. Reinvented a truth of Golems, of magic.
The same eyes. Someone who had found it, not been taught or stolen it. Who had uncovered it by themselves.
Down, the Archmage of Chandrar reached, gasping, breathless, trying to steal something she knew was unattainable. Until she caught herself. Until those grey eyes glowing with magic’s insight focused on her.
Archmage Valeterisa Imarris tore her eyes away from the vision of magic that she beheld so…so casually. Because it was in her. Then, the woman floating on her back narrowed her gaze and focused on the woman who had brought battle to her. Who had tried to steal everything.
Amerys heard an alarm like [Dangersense] ring in her head.
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
Montressa du Valeross was screaming her master’s name, trying to run towards her over the water, heedless of the danger. Only trying to protect her Master’s work.
She halted only when the Archmage of Chandrar stopped moving in the bubble of anti-gravity. When she suddenly, for no reason Montressa could see, darted upwards. Up—then Montressa clutched at her chest?
“Montressa? Speak to me, kid.”
Someone seized her shoulder, panting. But Montressa was—gasping. Tears were streaming from her eyes, but not of remorse.
“It can’t be.”
Suddenly, she was smiling. In disbelief. The [Apprentice] fell to her knees as the Archmage of Lightning took a fighting pose. Lightning crackled around her, and she conjured a shield of yellow electricity. The first she had called on—
The water exploded up in a geyser. It rained past Montressa, but it never touched the papers; they were encased in glowing bubbles of violet light. Montressa felt a [Message] spell reach her as a familiar figure flew upwards.
Apprentice, protect my papers. 
 
——
 
Valeterisa shot skywards, shedding water, magic surging in her veins. She was no less weary, no less battered than before, but she didn’t care.
She felt like Amerys, as if she had touched the root of something real. The foundation of…everything.
She spotted her opponent in the skies, and the bolts of lightning crackled towards her. Valeterisa’s thoughts scrambled.
 
Valeterisa-Shields: Barriers up! One, two, three—
 
The [Lightning Bolts] bounced, three different types, each one meeting a differently calibrated [Lightning Ward] spell. That was easy. So easy. But flying and fighting? Flying, fighting, calibrating spells?
It was so hard. Valeterisa never had time in a fight to do everything, even with a hundred [Parallel Thoughts]. She began to fire spells back.
 
Valeterisa-Manacheck: Out of mana. We’re burning on empty, Captain!
Valeterisa-Main: Don’t tell me the numbers. Get her! What spells do we have?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Working…[Autocast] requires pre-prepared spells! We don’t have any ready! Use—use [Light Arrow]!
 
“[Light Arrows]!”
Valeterisa thrust her wand forwards and began firing [Light Arrows]. The most basic combat spell known to [Mages].
Amerys’ eyes widened as the spells flashed towards her. In an Archmage’s Duel? Had Valeterisa lost her mind? They came out in a spray, a hundred tiny comets, so negligible that Valeterisa could cast them all day. Each one hurt as hard as getting punched in the head—but the Archmage of Chandrar just drifted left a meter, and the leftwards edge of the spray of arrows passed her by.
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: Full miss on 173 arrows! We have no homing nor aim precise enough at this range!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: No shit! Look, even she can’t believe it!
Valeterisa-Main: That…didn’t take any concentration.
 
It was true. Even for [Light Arrows], throwing one took the effort of shaping the spell in your head. Of course, even a lower-level [Mage] could work up to hundreds or even thousands with dedicated practice and Skills. It was a visualization exercise: keeping the images in your head—like imagining five apples spinning at once, in detail and color. Or even spinning in different directions all at once.
Valeterisa could do hundreds—but she hadn’t felt the concentration of casting any of these [Light Arrows]. She’d just…
[Autocast: Light Arrow]. And all her concentration was in making one regular [Light Arrow]. But she could keep firing them nonstop.
 
Valeterisa-Research: It works. Ancestors of Sky and Flame, it works! We’re doing it!
Valeterisa-Threats: She’s coming! Do something!
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Quick, apply [Spell: Homing] to the [Light Arrows]!
Valeterisa-Analysis: She’s just going to dodge them, she’s too quick!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: Not if she’s marked! But how do we do that?
Valeterisa-Manacheck: We don’t have the mana for a hex…and we don’t need any! What about Milaw’s magic? Light rays don’t cost anything!
Valeterisa-Doubts: Can we cast the [Seeker] spell mid-combat?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Yes! I know every part of that spell! I made it! Help me!
 
Her thoughts were all working at the speed of, well, thought. Everything Valeterisa knew about magic was unravelling. Was a spell just something you cast?
No! It was made out of component parts! And what if you had the building block, the tool to automate parts of magic?
Then you were like that thing Kevin kept rambling about. Or his bicycles. With one inciting lever, you began to do a hundred different things.
The Archmage of Izril took apart her spell and reconfigured it, automating the calculations. Archmage Amerys was circling her, not understanding what Valeterisa was doing. Her eyes narrowed.
 
Valeterisa-Threat: She’s coming at us. Are we ready!?
Valeterisa-Spellbook: Three…two…one…now!
 
She raised her wand and pointed it.
“[Valeterisa’s Lightning-Catchers]!”
The Archmage of Izril blinked; she hadn’t realized she’d renamed the spell until it came out of her mouth. But the rays that came shooting out in every direction were green flickers of light.
Familiar—Amerys paused. She began to zip backwards, searching for an opening to dive through, then realized—
The [Seeker Projectiles] kept coming out of Valeterisa’s wand. Not one or a dozen, but hundreds. Just rays of light, zig-zagging, searching for targets to report back on.
“Impossible.”
Amerys knew Valeterisa’s spell. Even a [Grand Mage] could barely cast forty without a day-long headache. Let alone sort the information that was coming back—
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: We’re getting too much feedback! Eliminate all inputs that don’t have magical residue!
Valeterisa-Sarcasm: Still too much! Sort by targets above a resistance level of—
 
The data deluge washed over Valeterisa’s mind, then faded away. Her mind was…clear. She wasn’t being overwhelmed by her own thoughts!
In fact, Valeterisa had time to actually watch Amerys waver, then try to dance a path through the storm of tracers.
Was that an expression of uncertainty? She began flicking from point to point, divining a path through the storm, like a single flower avoiding a storm of raindrops. Amerys burst out of the deluge of hundreds of tracers, panting, but teeth bared. She gazed up—and Valeterisa slowly raised her other hand.
“[Valeterisa’s Lightning-Catchers: Storm of Analysis].”
She dual-cast the spell, and a thousand tracers shot from her fingers and the wand. Then another thousand.
“That’s not fair—”
Amerys dove into the magic, dodging, whirling, trying to throw lightning bolts to diffuse the tracers. Then—Valeterisa felt it.
 
Valeterisa-Analysis: Target locked! We have her!
Valeterisa-Spellbook: [Autocast: Homing Spell]. [Autocast: Light Arrows]! [Autocast: Speed Spell]!
Valeterisa-Doubt: Don’t stop there! [Autocast: Diffuse Trajectory]! [Autocast: Invisible Spell] on every…6th arrow!
Valeterisa-Barrier: Altering the velocity of arrows on a 1-400% randomized scale! Are we ready?
Valeterisa-Main: Fire! Fire all spells!
 
She raised her hands and shouted.
“[Arrows…of…Light]!”
Around her, magical theorems flashed into being. The very spell matrices were moving, assembling, like some—some—factory of magic automating everything. Amerys gazed down at Valeterisa and finally saw what she’d done.
“Autocasting. You—”
Then the [Light Arrows] began shooting upwards. Like fireworks. They were different colors, sizes, and were coming at countless different velocities, some so slow they appeared to be orbs in the air, some arrows flickering towards Amerys.
Each one was homing. The Archmage of Chandrar tried to evade—a blow against her barriers made her twist.
They were invisible, too? She looked up as the cloud of spells followed her.
 
——
 
On the ground, Lord Moore’s mouth was open. He whispered as the skies lit up with Valeterisa’s magic.
“She did it. Not Montressa. She actually did it.”
He paused and thought about it.
“And I helped.”
A smile spread across his face, of disbelief and pride. He saw Archmage Amerys fleeing in the opposite direction and just trying to outrun the arrows pursuing her, because how was she supposed to dodge everything?
But the Archmage of Izril was chasing her. Lord Moore was about to shout at her to be careful—she only had one spell, albeit so many! Then he blinked.
Wait, was a cloud of those arrows splitting off? It was coming at—
“Ah.”
He began to raise his cloak as Valeterisa fired arrows at him—then tried to count how many were coming his way. The half-Giant spun and began to run, throwing up [Walls of Stone]. He glanced over his shoulder and saw the first one shaking nonstop—before [Light Arrows] punched through and kept coming.
“Hells—”
 
——
 
She had them on the run! Valeterisa stopped hammering the half-Giant after the first thousand or so arrows; he was a stationary target, shielding his face.
Amerys was still dodging. She was taking hits, but Valeterisa was finding tagging the Archmage of Lightning a real challenge.
You couldn’t even fire a swarm of homing [Light Arrows] at her; Amerys would just keep outrunning them. You had to fire the [Light Arrows] into the air, create a moving minefield of arrows in every direction for Amerys to run into, and even then she was blasting through them.
Valeterisa had never admired another [Mage] more. She had never wanted to hit another [Mage] more.
Revenge! She was generating higher-tier spells with [Autocast], but it was hard. If she had a day, more, she’d come up with a truly dangerous spell using this formula. Right now, she was pinning Amerys down with [Light Arrows] and—
“[Spear of Light Volley]!”
One of them hit Amerys and sent her plummeting. Valeterisa clenched a fist.
“Got her!”
The Archmage of Chandrar caught herself—then the [Light Arrows] began hammering her into the water. Geysers rose as the rest of the arrows followed her down, and Valeterisa made a note.
“Apprentice, write this down: autocasted magics very susceptible to flaws in system. The issues of [Parallel Thoughts] magnified. Automation of magic may lead to efficiencies in many ways. Idea: arm a [Shadow Familiar] with an autocast function? Like, say, [Cleanse]? Simplify cleaning…”
Master! Watch out!
A [Message] spell hit her, and Valeterisa blinked. While she’d been pontificating, Amerys had been in the water. But surely she was beaten. After all, Valeterisa…
She flew up, firing [Light Arrows] as fast as she could. And she saw a blur breaking through the storm. Coming straight at her.
“How—?”
It was Valeterisa’s turn to be stumped until she saw the crackling lightning shoot past her. Amerys was panting. Her hair was hovering around her—
And she was just charging through the [Light Arrows]. No counterspell, no elegant magical tricks. Her hands blurred as she shot at Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril saw Amerys punching a [Light Arrow] out of the air, her hands shrouded in lightning. She was just attacking so fast she cleared a hole in Valeterisa’s magic.
“Th—that’s not fair—”
“Valeterisa! Get down!”
She dove, firing frantically, more than just her autocast spells, towards Lord Moore. He threw a gigantic boulder at Amerys; she had to dodge around it. Valeterisa landed next to him. Smoke was still rising, and he was covered in soot marks, but he just pointed up.
“Unbelievable. She’s still ready to fight? Quick, show me how to [Autocast]. We can fight her back.”
“You don’t know the magic?”
She shouted at him, and he bellowed back.
“It’s complex and locked up at Wistram! Even the Blighted Kingdom didn’t know it! Hurry, she’s—”
They saw Amerys shoot down and hit the Floodplains of Liscor. She landed on the water in an instant—then the water heaved upwards. The shockwave of air hit them a moment later; a wave blasting both [Mages]. Then the waves of water crashed over the hills. Valeterisa stumbled.
“Oh dear. Was that a faster-than-sound—?”
Lord Mireden threw himself forwards. He stumbled—fell to one knee. Valeterisa gazed up, and Amerys’ foot was buried in one shoulder.
The sonic boom struck her less than a second later. The Archmage of Chandrar vanished as the half-Giant tried to grab her. She was a thousand feet away, and the sonic boom cracked across the Floodplains, creating another wave.
“You’ve got to be kidding me. I think she broke my shoulder.”
He was gasping, blood drained from his face as he clutched at his shoulder. Valeterisa stared at him. She only broke his clavicle bone?
Instinctively, Valeterisa conjured more [Light Arrows] and made them stationary. If Amerys hit one of them at the speed she was going…but the Archmage of Chandrar just stood there a moment, panting for air. Studying her foe.
Now they saw each other. The hermit crab with her strange plans and machinations had made something that the hill of ancients and the fierce bird had never dreamed of. Just like a silly hermit crab was a silly foe until it started firing needles and [Light Arrows] from its shell…
The analogy fell apart. It didn’t matter. Amerys wasn’t done. Lord Moore and Valeterisa tensed, raising their wand and staff. Amerys vanished. Where—?
A flicker of lightning arcing up. She appeared with a Tier 6 spell in hand, ready to throw. Valeterisa raised her wand, eyes shining with magic’s truths.
Amerys was grinning. Blood and soot on her face. Both of them heard her voice.
“We would be such great enemies.”
The [Thunderbolt of the Storm Giant] pulsed in her hands, and she hurled it down towards the two [Mages]’ barriers.
It exploded halfway towards its target, and the shockwave kicked Amerys in the chest. She backflipped in the air before halting, surprised.
“Huh?”
That wasn’t a spell. Had Valeterisa put an invisible landmine in the air? Clever—then the Archmage of Chandrar twisted.
“—gods!”
The tip of the spear slashed across her ribs and would have laid open her flesh but for her robes. She dove, and the second spear nearly hit her—she blasted it with lightning and saw it shear through the lightning.
And her barriers?
The training spear hit the waters, and Amerys watched it fall like the water were but air. She turned. Then she saw the Drake standing on the hill. He was already drawing another spear back to throw.
Relc.
 
——
 
The Gecko of Liscor heaved, and the training spear from Liscor’s Watch House flew straight as an arrow. He was no [Javelineer], but he had practice. And [Recall Weapon: Spear].
It was no good on his destroyed spear, but he yanked one of the spears out of the water; it nearly hit Amerys as she dodged it and it boomeranged back.
“Relc! Get back!”
Valeterisa was screaming at him. The [Spearmaster] ignored her. He’d seen Amerys coming in for a second pass, and he hadn’t been able to join the fighting in the skies—but he thought he saw it.
Right there. He pivoted as Amerys vanished and threw. She appeared on a hilltop to the right of the one she’d been standing on, and he heard her swear as she had to throw herself out of the way of his spear again.
“Yes! I can do it!”
He pumped a fist, then grabbed another spear from the cluster he’d planted in the ground. He looked up and dodged as Lord Moore landed next to him.
“Relc, are you mad? Valeterisa, barriers!”
They were throwing up shields, and Relc panted at Valeterisa.
“I can’t let you get hurt—alone. Don’t worry, she’s tired, and I’m fresh! Sorry it took so long! I stole Tekshia’s spears. I couldn’t find enough!”
He felt guilty about that, but she’d let him have ‘em if he bought her more. Valeterisa was just shaking him.
“Relc, we can’t beat her! She’s inexhaustible! Even with my new magic—”
“‘Course she is. She’s just bluffing. I’ve seen it before. Every [Mage] always says that when they’re tired. ‘You’ve forced me to use my real power’. I nicked her. It proves she’s out of mana.”
Lord Moore was blinking at Amerys, who was watching them, eyes narrowed as if she were confused.
“That’s true. Those are unenchanted spears. How did you hit her, Relc?”
He seemed confused. The Drake pointed at him.
“I’m just doing what you did, Moore.”
“What, me?”
“Yep. Seeing where she’ll appear. You did it at the start of the fight. Took me a second to figure it out, but I knew I was seeing it. Just like those damn [Scrying] spells. Looks like a fishing net in the skies. See? There!”
He pointed as Amerys flickered left, and she visibly jumped as he pointed. So did the two [Mages] next to him. Relc grabbed another spear.
“All we gotta do is hit her once! Just—like—this.”
He didn’t know what was going on. It was just sort of…clear. When he raised the spear, drew it back, threw, it was like he was aiming both at Amerys and something else. Relc cursed.
“Nearly hit it.”
“Hit what, Relc?”
Amerys had ducked the throw. But it had been closer than any before. No one was seeing what he was doing?
To the Gecko of Liscor, it was obvious. He could see the magic that Valeterisa had to point out to him and make more visible, like fishing nets in the air. All the little components of a spell strung out. It wasn’t as if a [Fireball] was just a ball of fire. It was a bunch of little strands of fire; even he’d noticed that. So, just like that…
[Scrying] spells were so much more than just an eye in the sky. There were all kinds of little bits and threads that made up the spell itself. He didn’t understand it, but he saw it. And he wondered if you sliced one of the little threads, what might happen? But the Drake was no mage.
Amerys…Amerys was easier. When he lifted a spear, it was clear. He could not follow the speed of her lightning. Nor her movements with the naked eye, but it was like…fishing. You had to gaze beyond the dim shape of the fish underwater, if you could even see it. It was like a line he followed, moving from where Amerys was pivoting, taking a step, towards where he knew, suddenly, she’d end up. All he had to do was hit it—
There. Her finger blew the spear out of the air a foot from her face. Relc sighed. He’d never hit her with a spear, even if he was on track. So he glanced down at the water lapping at his boots. Another problem.
“I need [Waterwalking] if I’m gonna fight her, Valley. I’ve got to get close up. Mireden, if you’re using [Mark Target] or whatever that is—keep doing it. The squiggling lines are hard, but I can touch her. But is the water…?”
He squinted at Valeterisa, then at the water. Then turned to the other two.
“That’s not magic or where Amerys is moving next. Who’s doing that? It’s beautiful, but all I want to do is cut it.”
Valeterisa and Lord Moore were exchanging glances and staring at the things he was, but they didn’t seem to see it. Relc gazed down into the water, and he swore…he could see something under the dark, muddy surface of the Floodplain’s water. Like he swore he was when he was fishing sometimes. Or spear dancing. Like a layer under the surface of the world…
His head rose as he whirled another spear up. Then, Relc glanced at Valeterisa. Her eyes were focused on him. On the way he drew his arm back to throw, and Amerys was watching him too.
Warily. No longer smiling, but with respectful eyes. As if she might blink and die. And Valeterisa? His beloved Archmage was gazing at Relc as if she had for a moment forgotten the magic now visible in her own eyes.
Like someone gazed upon a painting come to life. A work of art; a gaze he had never known, but longed for all his life. For the pride in it. The pride and satisfaction.
The Drake caught himself. Lord Moore had exhaled, like a witness to great miracles, and bowed his head. He clasped a fist to his chest as a man praying.
The Archmage of Chandrar was waiting, a woman possessed by the desire to see. The Gecko of Liscor lowered his arm, and the scars on his bulging muscles glinted in the rain.
He inspected his arm, as if he had never seen it before. Then, suddenly, tilted his head back like a man hearing a story he had once told. He closed his eyes and breathed in and out.
A dreamer wishing to see the end of this, even if it was just his imagination. Relc Grasstongue stood before the eyes of the world and saw no Archmage of Lightning. No Floodplains filled with rain.
Just…a grinning old Gnoll, long in the tooth, hunched over a worn spear as he chatted with a weary [Soldier] on the side of the road. The [Spearmaster] laughed, then swung his spear and parted the grass.
But that was not, truly, the amazing part. Relc told that story so many times to his students, to other people, and they focused on the two hundred and thirty-eight steps he had taken to find the end of the place the spearmaster had cut. As if it were about mere distance.
No…Relc had thought that if the old Gnoll had wanted, he could have cut the field as far as Relc could see. Because it wasn’t about the grass. He hadn’t cut the grass. He’d cut something…else.
Now, the Gecko of Liscor saw the same thing. A layer under the world he knew, no less real, that he had touched so many times in the moments when everything was perfect. That feeling, as if you could leap into the skies if you jumped right or catch a piece of the air itself. Sheer instinct, mastery, and longing.
So, the [Spearmaster] opened his eyes and copied the gesture he had tried a million times to remember. He looked around and gazed at the water.
“Oh, there it is.”
His spear, the simple practice spear placed by Tekshia Shivertail’s shrine, cut through the rain. It cut through the air as he slashed across his chest in a straight, horizontal line.
The waters before Relc splashed softly. A spray of liquid; Amerys Retoiber gazed down at what the Drake had cut.
“Ah.”
She sighed, and the mirror of her reflection showed her a smiling woman, battle-worn, but standing in quiet awe for a moment in the rain. Water landed on the water that Relc had caught and pooled over the top of it.
As if…the water below were no longer a liquid. Valeterisa gazed down at the mirror’s finish of the water. A patch of clear space, not much longer than Relc was tall. Still liquid, and yet not liquid. Captured, controlled.
Still. Then Relc’s feet landed on the water.
“Huh. It’s flat.”
He stood on the place he’d cut, blinking down—until the mirror’s edge wobbled, and he leapt back onto the hill of grass. The oddity in the world collapsed, and water rushed around before returning to normal.
Relc gazed at his spear. Then slashed the water again. And this time, he saw what he was doing more clearly. It wasn’t half as graceful as the old Gnoll. Relc had missed his mark, cut something else instead of space. He’d cut…
Motion? The water went still again, and there was a peace from the patch of the world Relc had…silenced. A quiet calm that let other parts of the world touch it and not yield.
Once more, when the spray of water cleared, there it was. A mirror’s edge. He failed when he tried it a third time, but when he glanced up at Amerys, she understood why her barriers had vanished.
That spear cut through the hum of magic. Through the rush of waters. It brought only quiet where it touched. She was lucky he didn’t have mastery of it.
Amerys felt at the gash on her ribs and addressed him directly.
“[Spearmaster]. There are such laws as physics, you know.”
His teeth shone as he gave her the sharpest smile she’d seen in her life.
“That’s what everyone tells me, but I forget them all the time. Neat trick, huh? Okay, Valley, Lord Raithland. Think we can take her now?”
Amerys was calculating what he could do. Break her magic with the spear? Create improbable surfaces? He couldn’t fly—but he’d be running over the water.
“Gecko of Liscor. How appropriate. You know, some geckos can run on water?”
Relc opened his mouth, frowning.
“Are you…trying to hurt my feelings? Because it’s working.”
His tone was casual, but he’d lowered himself into that attack stance, and Amerys was eying the half-Giant and Valeterisa. Valeterisa with her new magic…Amerys felt at her belt pouch. She glanced at the bubble of Valeterisa’s sacred texts being shielded by Montressa, a dedicated [Aegiscaster]. Stared at the sky.
“I’ll have to reroute around Pallass this time, and Zeres…mhm.”
She checked her mana pool and nodded. Then she raised her hands.
“I concede defeat. Today. Next time, we shall duel properly, Valeterisa. No outsiders.”
All three, Drake, Human, and half-Giant, didn’t move for a second. Amerys floated backwards, smiling beatifically. She pointed at Valeterisa and nodded to her.
“Cowardice does not befit you, Archmage of Izril.”
She floated backwards, still facing the others—until the spear passed through the place her head had been. Then Amerys zipped back down and landed on a hill.
“Damn.”
That sometimes actually worked. Relc grabbed another spear.
“She’s running! Get her!”
“Wait, she is?”
Valeterisa was so surprised she forgot to attack for a second as Lord Mireden slammed his staff into the ground. Amerys lightning-dashed away, heading southwards—
The half-Giant crashed to the ground and swung a blade of iron down, cutting off her path. She swerved, cursing—
Relc leapt off a hill, threw a spear, and it met a [Lightning Bolt] and exploded. He landed in the water, swearing, and Amerys did an aileron roll—then saw the [Light Arrows] coming. Too slow. She was grinning until she slammed into an invisible forcefield.
“Ow. What the—”
“You—you think you can just run away after all you’ve done?”
Montressa du Valeross might not be a fighter, but she was great at walls. Like, say, one that kept someone in a bubble. She hid as Amerys’ eyes sparked at her.
“Good job, Apprentice! Get her, Relc! Attack! Attack!”
Amerys moved along the inside of Montressa’s bubble, kicking it, punching, dodging a slash from Relc, and commenting, breathlessly, but surprisingly cooly given the situation she was in.
“I’ve lost. You don’t want to see me fight to the death, and neither do I. Besides, this isn’t my first duel. We both know how you do them.”
Valeterisa frowned. Mindgames? Amerys was desperate. She began shooting [Light Arrows] through Montressa’s one-way barrier at the Archmage of Chandrar. Then she began to analyze what Amerys had just said. Wait…no good [Mage] went into a duel without a backup plan if they lost. Only idiots did that, and her hero, Valmira.
What if—her head turned. Scanning the Floodplains of Liscor, the rain and battle-damaged hills. But Valeterisa was too slow. Even Amerys sometimes was.
 
——
 
A blur raced up Liscor’s walls. The [Guards], focused on the distant magical firefight and their [Spearmaster], didn’t even see him. There was only one millisecond when you would have even caught a glimpse of him.
A Garuda, one foot clutching the edge of the wall for support as he tensed to leap. Then he was gone.
You could see him then, but not fully. Just—the spray of water. If you were following that, he was hundreds of feet ahead. He raced across the churning waves caused by Amerys’ silly little duel.
The footing sucked. He envied the Drake. Solid ground would be an asset. If they’d been friendlier, Takhatres would have asked for a lesson to see if he could learn it.
They were both [Warriors].
“Ah, well. It was a good break. And they don’t even sell water here. Amazing. [The Great Desert Kicks].”
Dust over the waters. Sand—a surreal sight. Comforting; all the water unnerved him. His clawed foot hit the barrier imprisoning his friend and drinking buddy.
Takhatres went through Montressa’s spells and struck the half-Giant twice in the chest; peeled away, shaking his clawed hands out.
“Hard as a rock.”
“What was that?”
Archmage Amerys leapt with him, a bolt of lightning and the fastest Garuda in the world, onto a hill. There he could stop moving. Takhatres slowed down his voice.
“I said, ‘hard as a rock’. No wonder you weren’t cracking him. Shoddy work with the [Spearmaster], though. I’ve never seen you appear that rattled.”
“I have witnessed a miracle of magic. And that Drake just earned a true mastery of the spear!”
Amerys glowered at him. She was panting; he smiled, his lower beak curving upwards. The Lord of the Skies wore a simple traveller’s clothing, not his beautiful regalia when he was upon Chandrar. Amazing how often that worked.
He’d been in Liscor, oh, all of two days. He’d stopped to check out the New Lands and some other places, like the yodelling Drakes, when Amerys had dropped him close enough to Izril’s shores to run the rest of the way.
He couldn’t cross the entire ocean by running; it was too tiring. But he was not one of the King’s Seven for nothing.
Of course, it took the other Archmage, [Spearmaster], and half-Giant time to process him. Then the Drake swore.
“Oh shit, it’s that guy! That other guy!”
“‘That guy’? Is that all my name is in Izril?”
Takhatres was insulted. They knew Amerys by her hair alone! No one had even recognized him once! He’d gone into Pallass without so much as them arguing over his passport!
“You have to attack one of their Walled Cities to be famous. Were you planning on letting me die out there? You saw my signal!”
Amerys was nattering. She was shaking her hands up and down, and Takhatres rolled his eyes.
“The moment the Archmage of Izril started firing those [Light Arrows], you should have fallen back. Now, are we going to fight a bit more before leaving? They’re going to be on us like ticks on Flos Reimarch’s ass after a swamp battle now that they know it’s both of us.”
He eyed the [Spearmaster] and half-Giant. Warriors both. With Amerys, he could make a fight of it, but he didn’t want to. It left a bad taste in his beak after the city was generous with its water.
“I don’t want to fight the [Spearmaster]. He just capstoned or I’m a peacock’s uncle. They’re always feeling themselves when they capstone, even before they level.”
Amerys was gritting her teeth.
“She just unlocked [Autocasting]. I have to have it, Takhatres. It’s going to change everything—! I have some of her notes, but most of them are in that bubble.”
She pointed, and the Lord of the Skies raised his brows.
“I’m not jumping to grab it. Too much. You think you can pop it and grab the lot before she fries you?”
“I’m thinking. Shut up!”
The two’s conversation was so much faster than normal people were used to. Valeterisa pointed at him in alarm.
“It’s Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies, Relc! One of the King’s Seven! Get back!”
The Garuda bowed to her.
“Finally.”
Lord Moore slapped his forehead.
“Damn, I forgot all about him in the excitement.”
“You knew he was—?”
Relc and Valeterisa rounded on Lord Moore, and Takhatres reckoned he could have tagged one or the other. Maybe not; the [Spearmaster] seemed pretty quick.
“Amerys? Time’s running out.”
She glowered at him.
“You’ve been fighting for ten seconds. I knew I should have brought Mars.”
“And how is she going to get you out of here?”
The Archmage of Lightning ignored him. She floated upwards and gestured to the Garuda.
“As you can see, I brought backup. Shall we call this a draw?”
Valeterisa gobbled at her.
“You—you beat me up, stole my papers—give them back!”
“Nooo….no. Don’t be silly. You’ve achieved a grand discovery of magic. I’m the outraged one. And your paramour capstoned.”
You had to admire her. Takhatres grinned again; Amerys was acting like she was the one who had every reason to be outraged. Certainly, she seemed to have stunned Valeterisa into having trouble breathing.
The half-Giant struck the ground with his staff, and the waters rippled; Takhatres eyed him warily. He hated foes who could change the terrain.
“Further conflict benefits no one. Try Liscor again and you will not just face us, but the inn. There is an [Archer]—two [Archers] who could clip even the Lord of the Skies’ wings.”
Amerys’ eyes narrowed as Lord Mireden thundered.
“Oh, don’t think I’ve forgotten you, half-Giant. Was it you who provoked me?”
He nodded his head to her.
“One should fall for bait less easily if they are outraged at being treated like a fish, Archmagus.”
“Hah. Fish metaphors. What a strange continent.”
The Garuda shifted from foot to foot, waiting impatiently. If they were going to scrap, they might as well…but no, [Mages].
They just had to float at each other. The angry Archmage of Izril and the Archmage of Chandrar circling each other, trading insults. Takhatres rolled his eyes.
“[Mages], am I right?”
He tried to strike up conversation with the [Spearmaster], but the Drake just jabbed a spear his way. The Lord of the Skies sighed and listened to them fight.
“I—I won’t forget this! You thief! You thug! Brigand!”
“Oh, please. You do the same thing. Turnabout is fair enough.”
“Calling in help to run away! Cowardly! Despicable! Craven! Pusillanimous!”
“Says the woman too afraid to fight me until her [Apprentice] and lover stepped into an Archmage’s duel.”
“How would you know? You have neither!”
Ooh. That one landed. Takhatres saw Amerys grin; but she did that as a reflex whenever someone got her. She glanced down at Relc, then her voice became oddly…conversational.
“Yes, well, we all find lovers. I envy you the joy of it until it flickers out. That one is a [Spearmaster], but has not a whit of magic about him. You cannot speak to him of magic, can you? Just as he cannot touch you unguarded but break you.”
Her eyes focused on Valeterisa, searching her for cracks—but unlike the [Princess], Valeterisa just blinked owlishly at her.
“I…what? Naturally, I speak to Relc of magic, which he does not always understand.”
“Ah, so.”
The Archmage gave Valeterisa a knowing, even superior, smile of weariness. Valeterisa tilted her head left and right.
“But he listens and provides much Relc-commentary. A delightful listening experience even my apprentice enjoys. Just as I listen to things I do not know. Like fishing.”
That made Amerys blink in genuine surprise. Relc glanced up.
“Uh, Valley? Is this the time?”
Both Archmages ignored him. The Archmage of Chandrar was glancing down at Relc and speaking slowly.
“There will come a…power is one aphrodisiac. Magic another. That he has some parity in your levels is perhaps enough. But you and I are old. How many little illusions do you cast? In private or public?”
“Good question, Amerys. You never tell me.”
She flicked jolts of lightning at Takhatres as Valeterisa blushed.
“I—I don’t cast magic! It’s very disconcerting to him.”
“Ridiculous.”
Now, Amerys glared at Relc, and he cast around as if suspecting there was some kind of cunning ambush occurring. He protested.
“Wh—we’re fighting, right? I can’t stand illusions. Makes me feel like someone’s about to mug me. [Prostitutes] used to beat up lads in—and there’s [Rogues] and—what are we doing?”
Amerys was thinking hard, hmming, as Montressa debated putting her fingers in her ears. Valeterisa seemed to snap out of this odd conversation she rather suspected she was winning somehow.
“I—I will not put Montressa or Relc in danger. I am aware of the Lord of the Skies’ danger. If you so much as raise a hand, I will hurt you. Badly. Begone from Izril!”
She shoved at Amerys, with her mana, and the Archmage of Chandrar resisted, then glanced down. She exhaled, and Takhatres saw how much she was bluffing to keep them from realizing she was tired. The two Archmages locked eyes—then dropped.
Valeterisa landed in Relc’s arms. Both glared at Amerys; Takhatres stepped to the side as she slowed to hovering just above him.
“Alright, [Levitation] and make sure you’re chained to me.”
He produced a…rope and tossed it to her. She hung in the air, rather like a balloon, as he tied the other end of the rope to a harness he wore for this purpose.
It was a trick to let him carry her at speed. She did tend to resemble a bouncing pillow being dragged along by him, but it was efficient. Amerys stared at Valeterisa being princess-carried by Relc. The Archmage of Izril glanced around, then gave Amerys a triumphant smile.
The Archmage of Balloons blew a kiss. Relc glanced down at Valeterisa.
“So they’re running away?”
“They have to. The longer they stay, the more the Drakes will try to capture or kill them. They have to make it all the way to Chandrar.”
Valeterisa seemed only mildly happy at the journey, and Takhatres’ feet hurt just thinking about it. He whispered to Amerys.
“You had better have leveled or I’m burying you headfirst on the beach when we get back.”
She whispered back.
“I’ve stolen her theorems! I’m on the path to greater magic! This is a victory—though I feel like I’ve lost.”
She glared at the Drake and Human couple. Relc was scratching his chin.
“So…we won? And they’re just gonna run off?”
“Yes.”
Lord Moore ratified this series of events to Relc. He stared at Valeterisa, turned his head to Montressa, then peered at two of the King’s Seven. The Gecko of Liscor nodded.
“Right. Valley?”
“Mm, Relc?”
“Blast them with everything you’ve got. Montressa, you too. Lyonette, if you’re listening, tell Bird to open fire. Relc to Watch Capta—Watch Commander? Fire the wall spells.”
The Drake glanced around as the Garuda and Human froze. He turned as Valeterisa sat up in his arms.
“What? They’re running. They just scared the shit out of our city, kicked the hell out of you, and ate my pizza and they get to just walk off? They said they’re retreating. Get them!”
He grabbed his spear and threw it; Takhatres was already dashing away, but he had to come back because Amerys had forgotten to tie the rope around her leg. She dodged as Valeterisa raised her wand, then fired a flurry of [Light Arrows] at her.
“Damn it, Takhatres—run!”
“I’m trying t—quail eggs!”
A ballista bolt came out of nowhere, and he jumped on top of it, then backflipped a [Stone Spear] from the half-Giant. An arrow shot towards his face. Takhatres bit the arrow and grabbed Amerys.
“Get them! Get theeeeeeem!”
Relc was roaring as Montressa hesitantly shot a bolt of lightning at two of the King’s Seven. Then realized they really weren’t firing back. Both were dodging—Montressa’s eyes widened, then she began to vent her anxiety and terror in spell-form.
 
——
 
Relc Grasstongue’s face was all over the scrying orb as Liscorians stared at him. He was standing on the hill, roaring.
“Where are the wall spells? Someone activate them! Let them have it! This is Liscor, our home! Nothing takes a swing at us and goes back unhurt! Get me another spear to throw!”
He was hurling rocks at the retreating duo. The Liscorians turned to the silent walls. But they were the King of Destruction’s Seven.
 
——
 
Watch Commander Venim was gazing in horror at the scrying spell, much as he had been for the last thirty minutes. He sat back at his desk as his [Receptionist] and Liscor’s Council gazed at him.
He didn’t touch his speaking stone. Who’d be mad enough to—
Venim’s heart jolted out of his chest as a female voice roared from the speaking stone.
“You heard him! FIRE THE WALL SPELLS.”
Watch Captain Zevara was shouting across all frequencies. Venim scrambled for the speaking stone. The Council began arguing, half for, half against—
“Zevara, are you mad?”
At least there were sane people on the w—then he heard a calm voice clicking on the other end.
“This is Sergeant Brassbadge. Order acknowledged. Firing, Watch Captain! Aim for the Garuda.”
 
——
 
Liscor’s walls lit up, and Takhatres swore as he sensed incoming artillery magic. It might just be wall spells, but it could hit them across the Floodplains thanks to a certain Archmage’s upgrades.
Who had the stones in that city—?
He jumped a long-range rune which exploded upwards in fire.
“Reimarch’s tits, Amerys! I hate dodging spells cast by decent casters!”
She was deflecting spells coming at them too—another arrow took out a tangle of her hair, and she yelped.
“Faster, you idiot! I nearly got killed! Who shot that?”
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger lowered her bow and touched her heart for a second, utterly blank-faced. She turned to Bird, who was firing her bow and commanding the ballista unit.
“I thought she had barrier spells.”
“Oh, I think Relc clipped her with his new spear. You nearly murdered Amerys. Right when the King of Destruction would have seen it too. That would depress him so much he’d go to sleep again. Good job, Elia.”
Bird clapped Elia on the shoulder. The Named-rank adventurer lowered her bow and went for a walk.
 
——
 
They were on the outskirts of the Floodplains of Liscor, and the arrows kept coming. Archmage Valeterisa was throwing them down from above. So many that it was like a meteor shower; the two were dodging left and right, taking hits—not strong hits, but the arrows hurt if you took too many!
“[Lesser Spellsh—ow! [Lesser Spellsh—stop jostling me you idiot!”
“Just cast a moving umbrella, you dumb [Mage]!”
“No one has that! I can do a personal barrier, but not a moving barrier!”
“I saw the half-Giant do it! You incompetent spark-mage! You—incoming!”
Another bolt of lightning from Liscor’s walls was coming down, and now, Takhatres thought, the Walled Cities were going to let them have it. They were running out of Liscor’s range straight into the Bloodfields—then Pallass’ aegis. If they somehow made it past that, every podunk Drake city would think they could take a shot at these two thanks to that Lizard guy.
What was his name? Takhatres would look it up later.
The two of them were fighting, Amerys being dragged along like a lightning-filled balloon in the sky. Dodging attacks. And then…
Laughing. Their faces filled the scrying orb, even at a distance, as the Garuda and Human woman started giggling. Despite the attacks coming at them. Just…guffawing like they were having the time of their lives. Then the Archmage of Chandrar peered up and blocked the [Scrying] spells.
But that was how they left. That, perhaps, summed them up the best.
Madfolk. The King of Destruction’s Seven. As insane as he was. An Archmage who had crossed a continent to throw down the gauntlet at another peer and been sent packing.
Archmage Amerys, defeated by the Archmage of Izril.
Archmage…Amerys. Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, defeated by Archmage Valeterisa Imarris. The Archmage who had lifted the City of Incantations had bested Chandrar’s greatest [Mage].
Wait—then you could see Valeterisa catch herself in the air, panting, and realize the same thing everyone else did.
She’d won?
She’d won.
 
——
 
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle was stronger, tougher, and sexier than she’d ever been in her life. The power of the old blood ran in her veins.
She was still having trouble breathing, because Lady Ieka Imarris was holding her so tight even the Vampiress felt her ribs groaning.
 
——
 
“Well, well, well. This era has a [Mage] capable of grand discoveries. It’s one thing to learn ancient magic. Another to figure out how it’s done.”
Magus Tserre refused to say anything else nice about the duel. She’d been running a critique the entire time and really ruined the entire affair for everyone in earshot…only Prildor was in the room with her. Everyone else had switched scrying orbs.
Tserre glared around as she realized she had no audience. Then she went to drag Princess Vernoue away from the cheering people to lecture her on exactly how many things had been stupid about that duel.
 
——
 
“Yes.”
Grimalkin of Pallass made a fist and bumped it against Lady Pryde’s. He stood in Channel 1’s studio, and his voice roared over the scrying orb.
The Drake you needed to end it all. His neck muscles bulged, and he roared that word so loudly it imprinted itself in the minds of small children and adults across the world.
“TESTICLES. That’s what true magic is! That’s what grit and determination do!”
He was slamming his hands on the table. Lady Pryde, far from trying to calm Grimalkin down, was so energetic she was lifting her chair up overhead.
“Izril! Izril! The superior continent! Do you see that, King of Destruction?”
“Sinew Magus, calm down—the set—”
Noass and Sir Relz were trying to stop him, but the Drake just pointed a shaking finger at the scrying orb. He roared at Noass.
“This is what happens when you people stop caring about what happens outside of your walls! An Archmage lifts your city skywards! Did you think that was an illusion? Did you think she could only do it once? Fissival could have had her. We could have had her.”
He clutched at his head, then gazed at the Archmage of Izril firing spells without end into the sky.
“She is going to clear a path to the heart of magic. I swear, I will be there when it happens.”
He stooped and gazed around, the light of what she had seen reflected in his eyes. The Drake whispered.
“I want Pallass to see it too.”
Then he kicked the news anchor desk over.
“Gonads!”
He and Lady Pryde stormed out of the room to exercise the adrenaline out. With actual weights. Nothing like endorphins for pushing your limits.
 
——
 
Then it was done. Lyonette du Marquin stood there, watching the two Drakes trying to pick up their news desk, then switched to Channel 2, where Drassi was racing to Liscor to interview the heroes.
After a few moments, the [Princess] realized no one had actually invoked The Wandering Inn or was even coming here for a party. They were all at Liscor, which was mindful, and it was excellent the inn was safe, but…
She couldn’t help but feel that they’d forgotten Amerys had come here first. No, it was fine. This was the point! Just—
It was an odd feeling. Surreal. Mrsha turned to Nanette and Visma.
I keep thinking the inn is going to explode or this is where the Elder Creler pops out. Huh. Knock on wood?
“I’m going to be an Archmage!”
Visma shouted, throwing up her clawed hands. Nanette whispered to Mrsha.
“Think we can get Valeterisa to teach us autocasting?”
The two girls rubbed their hands together as Lyonette relaxed and smiled in relief.
There, that was better.
 
——
 
One last thing. Oh, there was much more. The King of Destruction’s reaction, both to the battle and to his vassals’ return.
Levels…so many levels. For so many, and one sneaky Gnoll [Server] who was trying not to appear smug as could be as he cleaned tables.
The changing nature of magic. Archmage Eldavin reassessing his ‘junior’ Archmage both in popularity and magical ability.
Valeterisa, hugging Relc, and the [Spearmaster] of Liscor’s return to his city, where they cheered for him harder than the Archmage. His surprise and gratitude as he laid the spear he had taken on Tekshia Shivertail’s altar and saluted it.
Gecko of Liscor.
Archmage of Izril. Perhaps they needed a better title for her.
And the half-Giant of Liscor, who had cemented his name in the city’s eyes, despite the potential cost. He didn’t meet a certain young Gnoll woman’s eyes as Arrema scowled at him, the one dissenting face in a crowd of admirers.
But one…small thing.
 
——
 
Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies, waited until they were in a safe area between danger zones as he slowed. Amerys needed to rest—and use the bathroom—and heal and replenish mana.
Long way back. A level for her would make this all worthwhile. He cricked his neck, sighing.
He hadn’t gotten much, but he’d at least gotten lots of free water, and his bag of holding could hold a lot of the stuff. The water was worth hundreds of gold pieces, even if he needed to purify it a bit. He spat something into one hand and inspected it idly.
“Takhatres? What was that? You hung onto it.”
“It’s the arrow some bastard shot at my face. Good shot too. I noticed it had this attached to it.”
The Garuda flicked the arrow at Amerys, and she shrugged.
“Just some arrow. Nice fletching.”
“Right? Not enchanted; they weren’t trying to kill you, except for that one arrow. But what’s this?”
The arrow had a little piece of string attached to it and a sodden note. Takhatres unfurled it and read. The note read:
 
Hello, I am Bird. I have a question. If you cannot fly, are you a bird or not? I am very confused.
—Bird the Huntress
 
The Lord of the Skies stared at the note for a long moment as Amerys read over his shoulder. He slowly crumbled the note up, then shredded it.
Of all the things he’d go through on the way back home—
That one hurt the most.
 
 
[Class Change: Spearmaster → Spearmaster: The Spear of Silence Level 40!]
[Spearmaster: The Spear of Silence Level 40!]
[Skill – Cut of Mirrors Learned!]
[Skill – Magebane Armaments Obtained!]
[Skill – Spear Dance: Catch the Lightning Obtained!]
[Skill – Summon Temporary Weapon: Spear (Mundane) Obtained!]
[Skill – Thrown Weapon: Angler’s Weave Obtained!]
 
[Grand Magus of Mind and Studies Level 57!]
[Spell – Autocast Rediscovered!]
[Skill – Supreme Spellcraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Automagic Spell Obtained!]
[Spell – Ninvet’s Continuous Generator Obtained!]
[Skill – Dimensional Note Storage Obtained!]
 
[Title – A Glimpse of Magic’s Truth Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Eyes of Magical Truth Granted!]
 
[Dancing Magus of the Fulgur Bloom Level 58!]
[Skill – Sorcerous Transmutation of the Elements: Lightning Obtained!]
 
[Green Lord of the Cured City Level 52!]
[Skill – Increased Velocity: Earth Magic Obtained!]
 
[Title – Protector of Liscor Obtained!]
[Liscor – Reputation: Famed Granted!]
[Title Skill – Convincing Smile Granted!]

Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 9) (2025-10-07)

Now came the hardest moment. More difficult than besting the Archmage of Lightning. Far more frightening than facing Shifthold. Emotionally harder than beating a child half-to-death with your bare h—
Okay, maybe not that last one. Probably equal, which meant she had the advantage.
Nevertheless, Jelaqua Ivirith hesitated. She didn’t write in advance to anyone else to meet, even if one of them were in a position to do so of their own accord.
She just…listened to the news. Saw a small article in the morning’s newspaper below the bigger story about the Terandrian magical storm. About Shifthold being repulsed from Treant’s Farewell. Had a contact send her a [Message] about some seaport scuttlebutt floating around that she might want to look into.
It was today then. Jelaqua Ivirith saw a huge crowd at the checkpoint to the 8th Floor into Liscor. People wanting to confirm what they had seen on the scrying orb.
Archmage versus Archmage. Half were regular citizens, looky-loos. The other half?
[Mages] who understood what Valeterisa had done. Pilgrims to a holy place. Aspiring students, truthseekers.
—Jelaqua didn’t go to the inn right away.
 
——
 
It was Maughin who broached the subject. Her supportive [Smith] was making a lunchbox for once. Chopping up some rather handsome steak into fine, fine slices. Jelaqua knew the beef—it was from the north. [Cattle Ranchers] raised Moonmellow-breed cows, who never so much as chipped a hoof in their lives let alone did something as controversial as forage for their own food. They were stuffed with magical fodder, given specialized massages, and the end result was a beef so tasty, so magically pure that you could eat it raw without ever fearing disease.
She’d bought it for herself eighteen times in her entire life. The Selphid wasn’t quite drooling over it, but she was curious.
“Maughy, Maughy…we could eat that tonight! You paid a fortune for that, and what’s the cheese?”
“Ludicrously Sharp Veltrasian.”
“Nagas, you bought an LSV? Maughy, what is this for? A sandwich? I’d have to stab you if you wasted it on a sandwich!”
He’d also bought fine Chandrarian dates and Drathian fruits that claimed to have ‘trace cultivation’ on the stamped receipt from an official trader—that meant they tasted great. Maughin was arranging all of it, sliced meat, cheese, fruit, into a lacquered box. It was less of a ‘meal’ and more of a snack tray, really.
She didn’t get it until he turned to her.
“This isn’t lunch. I assume you’ll have something fine. This is a bribe.”
“Who’m I bribing?”
“Mrsha, I suspect. It probably works on Goblins and Antinium. Or [Princesses]. I have yet to hear of one refusing Moonmellow beef.”
Her mouth opened, and Maughin, like the logical [Smith] he was, finished preparing the tools he thought she needed.
“I’m—I mean, I might go today. I just thought that it was a weekend and here I was with my favorite husband, and we could—”
“Jelaqua, Lord Moore fought the Archmage of Lightning to a standstill yesterday. I will keep.”
He was folding a cloth over the box, tying a knot to keep it secure and to hold onto. Jelaqua licked her lips.
“D-don’t you want to come with me?”
“I think there will be quite a lot of crying, so no. Nor is it my team. I will be visiting my family since I have time. And bragging about knowing the half-Giant who broke half of Archmage Amerys’ ribs. My wife’s teammate’s uncle…very prestigious. Here.”
He handed her the box, and she tried to protest. But if she sometimes rushed about taking care of him, when Maughin actually got pushy…
He ejected her from their home and locked the door. And there went most of Jelaqua’s excuses. She still spent half a minute blowing kisses at him through the window and shouting at him not to waste the rest of the beef; that was dinner!
Then…well…
 
——
 
Landlord Jelaqua was currently Wall Lady Melika’s biggest enemy. It wasn’t violence in the proverbial streets, because the Garuda was pretty sure she knew how that would go against Jelaqua Ivirith, but she was doing her best to fast-track paperwork to get another [Landlord] to take care of her charity’s young people.
…Paperwork that was being held up in the Assembly of Crafts! However! During this legal problem, she’d talked to all the tenants and warned them in no uncertain terms about associating with the Selphid.
No matter what she offered them, like toilets with plumbing, magical security stones, or a hotpot night they could come to eat communally…she was a dangerous, unpredictable, violent person!
Exactly the sort that all good teenagers stayed away from, right? Melika Blackwing was no idiot, and she had actually caught herself at one point and imagined how likely Salkis was to listen in their shoes. But the orphans liked her. What else could she do? At the very least, she was sure Anama would be a vivid proponent against trusting the Selphid until something could be done.
 
——
 
“My eyelids fluttered in noxious sleep
Our city stumbling through mundane days
The half-known promise I had yet to keep—
Until all was bathed in magic’s rays.
Then she carried the silent wishes high
T’was then I saw the Archmage fly!”
 
The voices echoing in the chamber that the Drake girl stepped into made her start, and her beating heart stopped a second in fear. Even the Selphid she was following blinked, and her orange gaze lifted.
The crowd of visitors entering the Room of Portals halted until the grinning Gnoll waved them through the magic door. Anama stepped behind Jelaqua Ivirith for a moment, then tried to act cool.
It just wasn’t just any day you saw a sixteen-person choir serenading you. They began the second verse when someone tapped a conductor’s wand on the lectern.
“No, no! We’re not high enough on the final line. When it says ‘piercing melody’, it doesn’t mean anything less than haunting! From the top.”
[Singing Instructor] Calla, the Drake musical teacher and sometimes conductor, was a harsh taskmistress when she was being paid to perform. She pointed at the front row.
“Sopranos, you’re the two leads! Give me those notes and project, project! [Heed My Instructions], and from the top!”
An Antinium and a Human with red hair? Those were the sopranos? Anama was open-mouthed in horror at her first sight of the dreadful Antinium up close, but Jelaqua just motioned the rest of the young people through the door.
“C’mon, kids, you’re holding up the line. You want to see the you-know-what or not? Hey, Liska, I have some temporary guests for the place.”
“Ooh, you need blindfolds. That’s our newest thing. Here. What’s wrong with her scales?”
“Regrowing. She’s a Scorchling. What’s wrong with your face?”
“Ooh, good one. Wait, is there something on it?”
Anama barely heard the conversation behind her. She was watching the red-haired Human sip some tonic, then growl with a scratchy voice at the Drake.
“We volunteered for this, Miss Calla!”
She gestured at Colfa, Singy, and all the [Singers], half of whom were being paid to perform, the other half of whom were volunteers. Including Elia Arcsinger and Bird, who stood in the altos. Calla was unmoved as she swished her conductor’s wand.
“Volunteer or not, I am being paid to perform Valmira’s Flight for an audience. If you want to be more than amateurs singing in the kitchen, I expect you to earn your levels. Now, once more, and remember, higher—”
The choir began again, and Jelaqua Ivirith turned her head.
“What’s this then, Liska?”
“Oh, just a commemoration of Archmage Valeterisa kicking Amerys’ ass. Lord Mireden is paying for it.”
“Really? You don’t say.”
Jelaqua narrowed her eyes slightly and glanced at the choir serenading people in line. Liska rubbed at her ears, and pointed; the young people following Jelaqua realized she’d stuffed them with wax.
“Yeah, it’s pretty good, but after the fifteenth time, I nearly hopped through the door. Anyways! There’s all kinds of stuff in Liscor. Dolls of all three [Mages], a street-long party. They’re making confections themed after the fight. Like little lightning bolts filled with syrup.”
“Lord Mireden’s paying for it again?”
“Well, him and Liscor’s Council. The you-know-what is pretty quiet, actually. You sure you want to go through to it?”
Jelaqua gestured at Anama.
“I promised them a look around. Just a look—they’ll probably run screaming when Asgra appears. Mind sending them to Liscor or Pallass after they calm down? I’ll pay for the floorboards if they wet themselves.”
Anama flushed and felt the scales on her cheeks actually heating up; a surreal experience. She self-consciously felt at the patchy scales no longer burning away and opened her mouth to object, but she couldn’t quite find the energy to speak.
Liska eyed Jelaqua, then sniffed the box the Selphid was holding.
“I dunno, that’s a lot of work…what’ve you got there, Jelaqua? Smells…pretty good.”
The Selphid opened the box, and Liska was given a square filled with Maughin’s expensive treats. She began to gobble them as Jelaqua winked at Anama.
“C’mon, brats. Remember, I’m paying for one thing. I’m not made of money. Don’t say something stupid around the Goblins or Antinium. They’re allowed to fight, and any one of them could take you to the ground, even the short ones.”
Apprehensively, the mixed group of young folk, including Ophala and Merry—Consillir had work—put on the blindfolds and had to link arms to visit The Wandering Inn. Despite all of Melika’s warnings, the reputational value of saying they could see that inn and visit Liscor on Jelaqua’s coins was far more appealing than their nervousness around the Selphid.
—How long they walked, and where they went, Anama couldn’t say. Only that when they were in the inn, it felt like a completely different place. She gasped as the blindfolds came off, and they were in a long hallway filled with warning signs.
Ominous ones, some of which seemed hand-painted, others which were highly professional.
 
‘Warning: Death ahead. Steal at your own risk.’
‘The Wandering Inn is not responsible for loss of limbs, insanity, or bodily fluids if you come in wrath or malice.’
‘Beware of Goblin. Also no killing them.’
‘You were warned.’
 
“Don’t worry, that’s just in case you were a [Thief] or [Spy] or raiders. The entire hallway flips and turns into a huge insanity-trap. Ooh, and there’s one of the kill-spots. They pour acid through there.”
Jelaqua Ivirith was not being a supportive, nurturing figure reassuring them it was all safe. Which, conversely again, made her the bad influence to Melika. Anama stepped around the concealed hole in the ceiling. She licked her lips.
“J-Jelaqua. What do we do when we meet the, uh, owner?”
“Erin? She’s gone.”
“I know that! I mean the other one. Doesn’t a [Princess] run this place? She’s the one who killed a Gnoll Daemon. And she’s a [Blademaster]. Are we supposed to bow or something?”
Everyone knew that. Jelaqua’s lips twitched. She glanced over her shoulder.
“Nah, just be normal. Besides, if you were looking for her, you already saw her. She was the red-haired Human singing in the choir.”
“What?”
Jelaqua pushed the door open to The Wandering Inn, and a crackle of lightning made Anama flinch backwards into Ophala. The young [Informant] to the Eyes of Pallass was trying to act cooler than Anama, but Ophala took one peek at the plate a Gnoll had just thrown across the room and froze up, beak open.
“[Lightning’s Delivery]. Pizza.”
Ishkr had just tossed a plate across the room from the kitchen window. One of the guests, a Drake, the Drake from the news, poked at his plate a few times with a fork.
It was him! The Spearmaster, the Gecko of Liscor! Ophala and Anama grabbed each other, then sprang apart, glaring. They needed an autograph, but who—?
“Hey, Relc, does it taste shocking?”
The Drake was cautiously biting the pizza. When he heard Jelaqua, he turned.
“Jelaqua! Nah, it’s just normal. Fast as heck th—Ishkr!”
He nearly leapt out of his chair as a blue-fruit drink zapped onto his table. The Gnoll [Head Server] was grinning until he turned.
“Oh? New guests. Battle stations, staff.”
The relatively empty common room suddenly turned and focused on Jelaqua’s guests. Barely a dozen tables had any guests given how the inn was impossible to find…but the staff were there.
Just not working. But when the Gnoll turned his head, he blew away the young Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda behind Jelaqua. He had the same presence as Jelaqua when she was being intense. The force of his appraisal made Anama start heating up inside.
That wasn’t even the scariest part; the scary part were Goblins popping their heads out of the kitchens, crimson eyes shining. An Antinium Soldier uncrossed his arms from where he’d seemed to be a statue, unnoticed against the walls with his brown carapace.
Then a trio of Humans wearing traditional servant’s outfits swept out a side room. All of it made Anama nearly turn around and run, but Jelaqua slung an arm around her shoulder.
“Hey, Ishkr, I’m paying for this lot. Lord Raithland in yet? I might need to borrow the theater. It’s time for a chat. Is Mrsha the Great and Terrible in? I also might need to bribe her for some help with logistics. I can’t get the damn thing to work.”
The who? The what? Jelaqua was leaving them behind! A dozen pairs of eyes were pleading at her to stay, but she was grinning—and the staff were clearly feeling like they were a big deal today. Getting to fire at the Archmage of Lightning and the Lord of the Skies—and knowing Relc and Valeterisa had a way of making you feel like the inn was back.
Asgra was, in fact, so busy trying to out-aura the newcomers that she forgot to check for obstacles as she headed over with menus and a pitcher of water. She tripped, and the wave of water made Merry duck behind Ophala.
Ishkr sighed. He was suddenly there, between the guests and the floating…droplets of water? They whirled around him as he lifted one glowing paw.
[Gravity Paw]. He swept them a bow in his suit.
“Hello, friends of Jelaqua. Miss Anama, I believe? And Ophala, Merry…may I take you to your seats? Please pardon our waitress. Asgra, blue fruit juice would be appropriate for guests. Or some other fruit juice of their choice.”
“You got it, Boss Guy Ishkr.”
He extended an arm to the table, and Relc peered out the window.
“You think I’ll get a party for hitting my new capstone, Ishkr? Huh? Just asking.”
“You’ve been waiting on Level 40 for years, Relc. Give us a day or two. Some things have to be done right.”
The younger Gnoll grinned at the [Spearmaster], and Relc glanced out the window.
“Valley’s not getting tired of playing in the rain, huh? Can I get a soup for when she and Montressa get in? My bet is she’s got forty minutes more, tops.”
Who? Did he mean…? As they walked towards the table, the Pallassians saw, out the window, the Archmage flying. She was shooting balls of light skywards as her [Apprentice] flew after her, and the Sinew Magus of Pallass, Courier Salamani, and more [Mages] were standing on the water.
Watching the Archmage of Izril practicing magic.
Well, so much for Melika keeping the youths away from the bad Selphid. Jelaqua Ivirith smiled faintly at the stunned guests and then turned. She checked her lunchbox as a Gnoll girl poked her head down the stairs, sniffing loudly.
Mrsha the Easily Bribable was still, sometimes, just the little kid that Jelaqua Ivirith missed. The Selphid winked, then glanced around.
Ah, it was a fine day to tell Seborn that Moore was back from the dead. A shame Amerys didn’t come back for round two.
That would be easier.
 
——
 
Lord Mireden Raithland was settling into his new name. He had to; Lord Moore was too revealing. The hard part wasn’t that or even necessarily all the fame and attention he was getting.
The hard part was…other people realizing he was used to all of this. Of the people of this world, and his own, realizing that half-Giant he might be, sworn protector of Liscor he was still.
Nice and upstanding gentle giant who never hit below the belt he was not. He never had been. Younger Moore had just been too afraid to hit people as hard as he knew how.
“I was almost positive she would not come to Liscor to murder Valeterisa. She would have fought differently, and I had a Skill and two bound spells on backup for that contingency.”
“You nearly got her killed even then! And she stole Valeterisa’s stuff!”
“And Valeterisa counterlevelled. So did Relc. He never got [Spearmaster] to Level 40 in our time, Arrema.”
“Don’t—don’t call me that. You know my name.”
The young Gnoll woman haranguing him, or trying to, was upset. Perhaps rightly so, but the half-Giant was having a conversation between adults. She seemed to think he was still treating her like a child.
“That is your name, Arrema. Privacy spells or not, you had better get used to thinking of yourself as Arrema.”
“What if I don’t like it?”
“Then I expected you to choose another in all the time you’ve had. I debated calling myself Lord Leesse. But that would be too silly and actually endanger me. The situation was under control. I erred in trying to capture Amerys. I suppose I was arrogant in that, but not as greatly as you seem to fear. You notice I don’t exactly appear worse-for-wear today.”
They were walking and talking, and the furious young Gnoll woman had chosen today to talk to him; she had been avoiding their conversation, but her fury at his perceived foolishness had brought them to it. Arrema pointed a finger at Mireden’s face.
“It was still low, faking Valeterisa badmouthing Amerys. And just—sneaky! I’d be okay if it was to level Valeterisa and Relc, but that’s not why you did it! You did it just to win the election!”
He frowned at her as they walked through Riverfarm. The spying [Emperor]’s eyes or not, it was a good place for this conversation; he’d never get a word in edgewise in Liscor or Pallass with all the people who wanted to speak to him. The half-Giant sighed.
“Arrema, ‘just’ the elections? I have one shot to become a Councilmember; it’s pure luck they had a snap election. Rest assured, the Council will be locked in for two years after this unless Liscor suffers a true calamity. Which it will not, because I am here. Everything I do is in service of my greatest task. The task you are leaving to me.”
He reminded her with a tap of his staff on her arm. She glared.
“You don’t have to be a bastard about it though.”
“I am being exceptionally upstanding by any standard of politics, which I grant you, is not a bar higher than your toes.”
“If Mom and the others from home could see you—you’re acting like Pawn. Our Pawn!”
Again, the comment made Mireden angrier than he should have been. He glowered as he cast a glance towards an old man playing with a little boy. Typhenous was chasing Cade around, but he tired often, and the shrieking boy would race up to him to badger Typhenous to ‘chase better’ until Briganda took over. She seemed happy, Lord Moore thought. In this world, she’d changed classes to [Shield Maid]; in his, she’d kept her [Shieldmaiden] class.
One change for the better without his involvement. He focused on Arrema.
“Arrema, I’m surprised at you. For the young woman who was prepared to sink into the dangerous world of Gold-rankers—or more!—you speak like a child. Your mother was highly politically savvy within Liscor.”
She opened her mouth, flushing under her fur, and he pointed a finger at her sternly.
“For all that she ‘retired’, she still managed one of Izril’s great cities and wielded considerable power! Keeping the inn out of harm’s way no less! I considered her a valuable ally and enemy when we were set against each other. She would do the exact same thing in my shoes—well, nothing so combat-intensive—but you would do well to observe the Lyonette of this place. She is showing those same sparks of true leadership, and it is not a kind one. Or have you not observed her preparing to dismantle the Healer?”
Arrema’s lips compressed.
“That’s different. That’s a good thing.”
“Oh, and so you just want her and me to be like Erin? If it is for a good cause, we can stab any number of [Princes]?”
Lord Mireden shook his head in mild despair. He knew Jelaqua was not going to be happy with him; he hadn’t exactly told her the full scope of his plans to win the election. And Seborn…Mireden felt his stomach twist with genuine nerves. After the battle with Shifthold, it was time to talk to him. But were they friends or…strangers?
Arrema, the one person from his world who remained, was giving him that gaze, so he was unkind, a bit. The half-Giant snapped at her as Typhenous looked around.
“I’ve often heard you complaining about our Pawn and how he terrified even Lyonette with his ability to lay nations to waste. Who, exactly, was the manipulated one? The [Prophet] with the power to summon angels, or the woman who had his antennae and could tell him to do so much? Your Lyonette never believed in Erin the way he did. You and I both know that; she was willing to go further than I would!”
Not that seducing anyone had exactly been in his deck of cards, but the point was made. He turned, embarrassed by her stricken expression.
“—That was harsh. I apologize. Just…I will make mistakes, Arrema. So long as they are not ones that cost Liscor everything, I will consider them the cost of this effort. Remember that, if we should come to odds. You know the stakes, and you have left this to me.”
He didn’t hear anything for a while, and the Gnoll girl didn’t speak when he glanced at her. She brushed at her dyed brown hair and then muttered.
“Did you treat the wells yet?”
“No. She’d notice that many dying. I think she’s unleashing the Legions of the Everservants. I hope we can beat them if they come to battle. I will, very slowly, add a formula to the water sources, but it requires me to be a Councilmember. That idiot, Ylawes, put Watch Captain Zevara’s guard up, and she monitors the damn wells. My formula will be far slower. First, it will neutralize their ability to reproduce. Then kill them off over repeated doses.”
“There’s more places where they could have spread the infection. The Goblins—”
“I know. Do you want to stay?”
Arrema was gazing across the sunny city where the [Emperor] of Riverfarm and the surrounding region held court. Her eyes rose to a flock of ravens flying overhead and then a [Witch], who wasn’t Alevica, unsteadily flying over a field. Arrema shook her head.
“Not with Emperor Blind doing his thing. Or at the inn. Sometimes it’s just like what I always wanted, and that’s worse than…I’m going.”
“Say goodbye, at least, before you do. If not to me, then to Mrsha and Lyonette.”
“Yeah, sure.”
 
——
 
It was bitterer than the medicine he was brewing, which was actually quite tasteless. Lord Mireden grimaced as he saw Arrema walking off, hands in her pockets. This upset him more than yesterday by far.
He was thinking of things to tell her and realized that she had never paid attention to the things he’d done, good or bad. She’d always just been stuck in time with Erin…
Such heavy thoughts. Whenever he thought of his world, he felt a rage that could crack the continent in two. A despair and burning vengeance against the Mother of Graves that could reforge his skin harder than mithril.
No, that was what would be hard. Seborn would see it, and Jelaqua already had. He was no good man.
No Giant of old with their simple morality. They had died because they were such uncomplicated beings for all their intelligence and sophistication in their own way. Unlike Dragons or other immortals, Giants had never suffered wrongs to make a right. They had not, he had been told, taken the lesser of two evils.
Small wonder they’d been pursued until the last ones had fled to Rhir. Moore rubbed at his face. It was not a fun thing to feel so damn small.
But the duty of a bastard is to do what children and saints cannot. It was hard and easy. After all…when he turned his head, he saw a dead man standing before him.
Typhenous’ face was just old. Not…the triumphant smile of the Plague Mage’s final spell. Lord Moore could still hear the hissing, the sudden silence of Flesh Worms dying. Plague in the dungeon of Liscor. A dissolving hand falling; robes dropping to the ground, emptied of organic matter and life.
“A squabble with young folk? You look like you’ve celebrated too hard, milord. What could be upsetting you after such a fine yesterday? Have I introduced myself? Typhenous.”
They knew who each other were, of course, but Typhenous hadn’t been there when the [Palace of Fates] opened. And he was acting. Always acting.
Mireden gently shook the old man’s hand.
“Typhenous the Plague Mage? My nephew was a friend of your team. I am Lord Mireden Raithland; forgive my altercation. I knew the girl’s mother, but I fear I’ve fallen in her esteem.”
“Such a sad thing to see. Being old is so…well, it makes me miss Revi. I fear I let her down so many times, but I just never found that oft-vaunted wisdom in my age. Just grey hairs.”
Typhenous tsked, shaking his head as he and Lord Mireden fell into step. They stopped by a tree where Nanette had once sat in isolation. The tree remained, but it was no longer as solitary; a suburb was being built where only empty grasslands had been last year.
It did not make Mireden sad; he was no [Druid], just a [Mage] of the earth. He gazed instead at the laughing boy and his mother.
“Briganda’s doing well. I think she actually is retired. I’d have never believed it, but she likes training the new [Warriors], and losing her [Shieldmaiden] class…it was a fine excuse. There was a moment where I thought I was finished myself.”
Typhenous leaned on his staff as he and Mireden activated privacy spells again, and the half-Giant pulled something out from his pocket.
“It’s a tradition. I did the same dance myself for half a decade in my time. Pipe?”
“What do you have?”
“Silpher grass, dried. Smoked with a pinch of Dreamleaf, a Centaur variety grown by a common friend of ours in the future. The last pouch you or I will ever smoke, much to my regret.”
“How excellent. Could I trouble you for a pinch or two for Witch Eloise? She would be fascinated by the stuff and might be able to resurrect the plant from the components…ah, it tastes like nostalgia for something that is lost forever. Quintessential Wandering Inn, really.”
The old sneak took a huge handful from Lord Mireden’s bag, and the half-Giant glowered, but getting Typhenous to give it back would probably be like trying to get a raccoon to regurgitate its breakfast. Possible, but the end result would not be worth it.
They stood, smoking, as Lord Mireden spoke, surveying a young woman sitting with a book under the tree. Nanette Weishart seemed to be dozing off.
“Forgive me if I retread painful memories. It’s just that I never quite knew you until after…your passing. And the ‘you’ of now is not the one I knew either. You didn’t go with Revi, because…?”
Typhenous stretched out his wrinkled and veiny hands with a true grimace as he clenched his pipe between his teeth.
“Too slow. Too old. Valeterisa could send only a few, and Revi is an army. Was it foolish? Yes, but it was her choice. If I were in Baleros, footslogging away from Dullahans or whatever she’s doing…I am old. I feel that age, and it irks me. I know better than to play the hero I’m not.”
A lesson learned several times, probably. Painfully. Mireden nodded shortly and rubbed at his ribs.
“I learned the very same lesson just now. I’ve gotten soft for all my achievements. The future is not so much an advantage as you think. They still fight like Demons, even if you know how they died.”
Nanette was glancing at Typhenous and Mireden. They waved, and Typhenous pointed at his pipe. Would you like some, young woman? Mireden tried to bat at him, but she came over to collect a pinch of the powder and a spare pipe.
“Lyonette is going to hang both of us for that.”
“If she finds out. A young woman of her age, in my experience, is no different from young men. Just sneakier about exploring the world. Being the old fellow they can trust is sometimes important.”
He winked at Nanette as she hurried off, possibly to find Hethon and a private spot. Lord Mireden puffed. This was not how he’d thought this conversation would go. The past surprised him. But Typhenous…he glanced left and down.
“Typhenous the Plague. One of the Knives of Invrisil. Face of Faces.”
The old man’s face had gone blank. Not angry nor sad, just—unreadable.
“In my youth, maybe I clung to such names. Right now, that would land me in more trouble with young bucks looking to get a bit of glory.”
“Simply confirmation on my part. You died harder than most I have ever seen. Harder and worthier. But for you, we would never have slain our foe.”
That pleased Typhenous.
“A hard death? Better than slipping into the end. Eloise was right. This isn’t making me dreamy at all, incidentally.”
“What? No. It sharpens your focus and concentration. Gives you interesting ideas, but if that’s what Nanette thinks it is, she and Hethon will just end up debating policy.”
“Bah, she’s too young for that if that’s what the children call it these days.”
Typhenous dodged one of Lord Mireden’s feet nimbly, but he grimaced and rubbed at one leg.
“You see? Fast enough. Fast for an old man. Fast for a [Mage]. Slow for a man who could have once given an accounting of himself in the Trial of Blades beyond a fitting start.”
Everything about him rang with a kind of annoyed grievance for the body that had let him down, but he wasn’t bitter. Just wistfully annoyed. Mireden envied him. They stood there, and the half-Giant sighed.
“I have to go speak to Seborn.”
“You haven’t? Well, well. After Shifthold, no less. A fine Drowned Man. In the company of a Bloodtear Pirate’s son no less. No; a full member. A dangerous Dorhmin, I have no doubt. The most dangerous in the world.”
“That nose for information you have is one of the reasons I wanted to speak to you, Typhenous. I have no doubt it served Griffon Hunt better than they knew—”
The genuine compliment seemed to irritate Typhenous out of everything, and he waved a gnarled hand at Mireden.
“—And landed them in trouble. I often ask myself, ‘was I more help than hindrance to them’? To Ulrien? Halrac? Let alone the entire team. I am the reason why they split. Those two were too good to ever bring it up. Did…did they ever count how many died in the Griffin Plague in the future?”
“I don’t recall any statistics. There were far worse incidents, sadly.”
Mireden lied. Typhenous glanced at him and then spoke, tamping the pipe out abruptly.
“This is my confession I have never needed to give, because I was never held to true account for this out of all my many sins. This is the truth I never uttered because it was known by those that mattered. One act killed more people than I ever did with my knives or spells. One act sullied the name of one of Izril’s finest Gold-rank teams. I regret it, but it was necessary.”
Mireden listened. Typhenous raised his hands, and he was not the most gifted illusionist, but he still conjured faint dots which multiplied, the images of beaks, the faint screech of a hunting Griffin.
“There were too many. Far too many. We were at our strongest, then, with every member a seasoned Gold-rank and Revi the most junior. We slew as many as ten Griffins a day—ten, sometimes as many as four at a time. Beyond unacceptable risk for how our team operated, which was no-nonsense, no-risk. And it was not working. The Wyvern Weyr that hit Pallass was a fraction of the numbers, and the Griffins were breeding and hunting nonstop. Ulrien knew what he was asking of me. Too weak and it would do nothing or spread across many species. Too strong and they wouldn’t live to spread it. I didn’t think it would change species so fast.”
He never looked at Mireden. Just stared at the lights winking out.
“There. It is a weight off my chest to tell someone. Ulrien and Halrac took the blame when they could have disavowed me. Our journeys led Ulrien to his death and Halrac to his. Both in service to saving lives and protecting the innocent. Qualities I was unfamiliar with until becoming an adventurer. If anything motivates me, it is a sense of a debt I cannot repay to the living. I shall count the balance of it when I am dead. It pleases me that the Typhenous you knew sounded like he knew the score and the tally owed. And you have sought me out because you require the Plague Mage to ensure she dies?”
His eyes glittered, and Lord Mireden felt a chill go down his spine, because there was no fear there. If they marched down into the dungeon now…
“No. The two of us would have no chance. It was a miracle we won. A miracle…and Halrac. In every world, he was that marksman we knew. I was the one who emerged, but not the killing blow.”
Typhenous understood. He turned.
“Then what?”
“I seek a man much like the one Arrema accused me of being: a hard man. A bastard. Someone who knows what is at stake and is both intelligent and resourceful enough to adapt. More importantly, someone who will not hesitate to curtail future tragedy.”
“Oh, you’d have me commit a second Griffin Plague?”
“Nothing so…generalized.”
“Blades in the dark, then. You are a different Moore than the one I remember. Or not. The difference is, perhaps, he didn’t know what was coming.”
Mireden wasn’t sure he liked the comparison for himself or for Moore, but he held his tongue. Typhenous stroked his beard, thinking.
“I am sworn to Riverfarm and the lovely [Witch] who saved me from myself in some small part. But then…Griffon Hunt is no more. Revi is the last who can truly claim to be active. I have little to do other than persuade new gangs that the Blind Man is no easy mark and to fight the occasional thrilling battle. That is no agreement. I need to understand the consequences.”
“Naturally. And I need more than one man with a blade. Or one [Mage] of your level, with apologies.”
“No offense given. After seeing who you marked, I don’t think anyone’d call you all flash. Funny; I never thought someone’d tell me I didn’t have the stones for the job.”
Typhenous slipped partially into street cant, and Lord Mireden checked his magical watch.
“I have to be going. Would you care for me to come calling?”
“I live at a very intelligent [Witch]’s cottage…so no. I’ll come by. We can have a drink in Invrisil. What kind of crew do I need?”
Mireden lifted a finger.
“Upstanding. Faces are acceptable, but I prefer no…affiliations. Able to move far and fast. Adventurers, in short. Gold-rankers.”
“But ones who don’t ask questions and can do a knife’s work? That’s hard.”
Again, the Plague Mage grimaced and pulled at his beard before having an idea.
“…Hold on, I’ve got one. Riz. She’s a Face. And a Knife. Unlike me, she’s young and respects my name. She was egging me on to put in a good word for her. She wanted to be part of Griffon Hunt. Perhaps if we had—no. I didn’t trust her. Her team dropped her once they knew how she really smiled. I’ll reach out.”
“I don’t remember a ‘Riz’, but plenty of events took capable people before their times. I may have a few names myself. Most I’d prefer to succeed as I hope they will, but for the rest…?”
Typhenous was nodding, eyes focused now.
“That’d make me Captain unless you’re planning on leading us. Strange, of all the jobs, I never wanted this one. Gangs and adventuring teams—too much work. But if the reason’s right, I’ll toss a hat on the streets. Swear to me you won’t waste me on anything less than my other death.”
He looked up, eyes glinting. It was a hard stare to match, but Mireden did.
“I swear.”
“Got a name? Just so I have an image to sell Riz, even if it’s in the back of my head? Something to give an old fellow a bit of zest for life and his lady something to chuckle about?”
Typhenous was smiling now, like an old, innocent man, but he spoke with that edge that reassured Mireden. The half-Giant thought for but a moment. Then he leaned over and murmured very quietly.
“We are just two thinking men on the side of the [Innkeeper]. There are a lot of thinking folk on the other side, some men. It will be difficult to even those odds, but until we’re caught, we have that. And I know most of the names. This is not the first nor the easiest. She’s my biggest quarry, but if you need for a vision yourself…Regis Reinhart intends to paint the garden of Izril’s flowers red.”
Typhenous’ eyes opened wide, then blazed as he gently looked around. Mireden dropped the spells, and the old man massaged his back. He spoke in a cheery voice.
“My. One hears stories, but I think I’d better go to a library. Wonderful things, those. They have all the history. Good luck on your day, Lord half-Giant, sir! I have some reading to do on the stuff of legends!”
He raised a hand to tip a cap he didn’t have, then looked befuddled before wandering off. Lord Mireden exhaled slowly and tapped his pipe onto the grass.
After a moment, he turned as a red glare shone on the side of his face.
Traffy the Law Elemental was glaring at Lord Mireden, who was in violation of the No Littering ordinance. The half-Giant regarded the Law Elemental. He cast around…then tapped the ground with his staff.
Traffy sank half a foot, then wiggled around before blurting furious sounds as the traffic light creature tried to free itself.
Lord Mireden walked off, and then…well, then it was time.
 
——
 
Ship #23 — The Sword of Gilam The Halfseeker’s Promise
 
It was only after the last dregs of surreal disbelief in his survival faded away that Seborn Sailwinds gazed once more at the green moon and understood…
Understood that, again, the world had changed and something terrible had happened. Something great, perhaps, but he had never found a true gift without a cost in his life.
He sailed westwards, towards the first stars he saw, with Tissl, his [Helmswoman], and Irrel, his First Mate, and his new ship.
Waiting.
Just waiting. He was fine with waiting; he knew they must be so busy. The living had to bury the dead each time.
He did not want to know, but he knew he would, if he kept alive. So, onwards the Drowned Man sailed. He had to teach the new crew the job, anyways. Irrel didn’t need the same lessons as Tissl, but he was a different kind of problem.
“Alright, try again. Just remember, port is left. Port. Left. Same number of letters. Stern is to the back. Aft is too. Bow is front…and when we give navigation orders, we don’t head towards other ships like that. It makes them think we’re going on the attack, Irrel.”
“Sorry.”
“Why d’you have such stupid names for ‘left’ and ‘right’ anyways?”
Irrel and Seborn glowered at Tissl, and the half-Elf protested.
“What? Why invent more words?”
“They’re not relative terms. Port is always left while facing the bow of the ship.”
“Okay…but why ‘port’? We’re already using that word. [Sailors] don’t have room for another in their heads? Oh, hey, look. A dragonfly. Anyone want to eat it?”
“All yours.”
“Thanks, Irrel. But I’m not that kind of half-Elf. Mom said Ceria was weird. D’you think Irurx and she really…y’know?”
“Probably. He talked a lot about her.”
“Third rule. Stop talking about friends of ours behind their backs. Unless they’ve done something stupid in recent memory.”
“Right, so about Captain Ceria…”
 
——
 
The hardest part was them telling jokes and trying not to smile. He managed it for half a day before remembering Jelaqua was the most irreverent happy-go-lucky member amongst them. It didn’t mean he fell over laughing, but he gave them a snort now and then.
Nor did he expect the two to be, well, so competent. He thought he had two Bronze-rank greenhorns on his hands, and in some ways, he did. But Irrel’s abilities in combat were Silver-rank…or frankly better, and that was despite him lacking Skills. With that sword? He was Gold-rank, but he wisely kept it hidden at all times.
As for Tissl, she had the gear of a Named-rank and all the fighting experience of a Sariant Lamb, but she was pretty competent in the non-combat areas he’d have expected deficiencies in.
Like knowing how to clean a deck, repair things with thread and needle, cook food, even how to just…work without slacking or getting distracted.
“I’m a [Farmer], aren’t I? You can’t slack when you’re doing important chores. Ma put me in charge of the sheep or the kids lots. Plus, steering this ship isn’t too hard.”
She did have a tendency to crash into some waves, but that was apparently ‘for fun’, and Irrel had an instinct about what waves were coming. Between that and Seborn’s seafaring knowledge, they managed to keep The Sword of Gilam afloat those first two days.
The two men had to clamber over the sails and attend to the rigging by hand, but Seborn was a [Rogue], and the ship was enchanted and stocked with a generous larder with Runes of Preservation. Tissl had already introduced the wonders of Izrilian cuisine to Irrel, who dug into the hearty fare with a kind of wonder.
He was used to all kinds of foods worldwide, but port-foods for all that. And after he’d dived into the water to catch fish, Seborn was less worried about having to enter a port.
Which was good, because he had a feeling they were being pursued. He’d been heading southwards at first, towards the New Lands, before he had feared the ship would suffer damage—and the Hivelands were due south of the High Passes. No safe port, even if he could talk themselves out of being swarmed for being too near the coast.
Then Seborn had debated going north, but Terandria would kill Irrel. So westwards Seborn had taken them, a bit wider of the Hivelands. Away from the coast, it was true, but there was a strong current that would take them south or north; a trading route that would actually speed progress to any harbor and make it harder for someone to catch them.
…Or there should have been. Two days in, Seborn was checking Gilam’s maps and realizing the young man’s mistake and his.
“Out of date. The changing currents. Damn. That’s my fault.”
He expected some blowback, but Irrel just glanced down from the crow’s nest, and Tissl peered up from the wheel.
“Not your fault you haven’t been at sea for a decade or more, Captain. Whaddya reckon we do?”
“Keep heading west a bit, but give us a more southern tack. There has to be a current even if they’ve shifted. The worst that happens is we swing wide before reaching the half-Elven settlement. Or Nombernaught. We could go back north…but Lord Etril’s probably hunting us by now, or someone is.”
“We’ve got plenty of food. Don’t see why we need to land in northern Izril. Whaddya think, Irrel?”
This wasn’t a group decision…was what Seborn was going to snap at Tissl, but he held his tongue. Irrel called down.
“Not north. Storm coming.”
Seborn and Tissl turned their heads northwards, but they didn’t see anything. The Dorhmin boy clarified as he nimbly slid down the crow’s news.
“Far. Magic. Can tell.”
“A magical storm? You’re sure? We swing well wide of that. It’ll throw us around, no matter if we’re in this enchanted ship or not.”
So they bent southwards, and after a while, Tissl called out.
“Captain, are you sleeping in Lord Gilam’s quarters still?”
“Yes. Captain’s privilege. Also don’t ever remind me that idiot exists. You wouldn’t like it anyways. He had some…off items.”
“No fear, Captain! Irrel and me have our own cabins; it’s great! I just have one request, sir?”
“What?”
“Can I have his pants? Me’n Irrel don’t have as much clothing.”
 
——
 
That was how Gilam’s wardrobe ended up being divided between Irrel and Tissl, though she needed to adjust some of his clothing. Seborn ended up stitching clothing with her on the deck, and that was also how they renamed the ship.
It was considered ill-luck to rename a ship at sea, of course. But after some discussion, the crew all decided that it was probably worse luck to be in a ship named after anything to do with Lord Gilam Quellae.
Plus, as Irrel pointed out, they had counter-tradition on their side; the Bloodtear Pirates didn’t have a problem with renaming ships at sea once taken in the heat of battle, and they had shed blood for this ship.
So that was how Seborn found himself clambering over the side of the ship with a fresh wine bottle to slam it on the hull while Tissl tried to paint the new name over the old one.
The Drowned Man was listening to her giggling as Irrel held the rope steady. Wine was blowing back in his face as he stared at the sloshing green-blue waves below.
“Steady. Careful.”
“Quit yer bellyachin’, landlubber! Avast and haul to or I’ll keelhaul you like there’s three sheets to th’ wind!”
“Stop it. Pirates don’t talk like that.”
He thought they were both smiling, and he was wondering how he’d keep these two safe. Seborn was clinging to the railing, so they couldn’t see his worried face when something passed him on the waves.
A little white Gnoll girl sat under a breaking wave. She looked up as the waters crashed down over her and reappeared, a ghost amidst the seas.
When he saw her…he knew. The Drowned Man lifted a slow hand, and the laughter from above stopped.
“Captain? Is that…?”
Irrel had gone still, eyes wide, as he recognized something the Bloodtear Pirates had seen before their ill-fated battle. Seborn whispered.
“Yes. Weigh anchor or…no, she’ll come to us. I need a moment with her, sorry.”
 
——
 
When Mrsha appeared on the deck, she wasn’t smiling or even pretending to it. She was…changed.
So much so he felt like the thin Gnoll girl standing before him was a stranger. She didn’t appear—hurt—but she seemed starved. However, it was her demeanor that seemed aged.
Something truly terrible had happened. Yet when she saw him, she did fake that smile. The girl held up a card.
Hey.
“Hey.”
He remembered how he’d shouted at her the last time he’d seen her and her ominous words before vanishing. The Drowned Man sat down on his deck as Irrel and Tissl peeked at the two of them.
Need a room?
The girl glanced at Tissl, and Seborn shook his head.
“It’s done. There was a battle—the [Driver] was eaten by some kind of insect. We think it snuck onto his carriage in Treant’s Farewell and then…we’re fine. We stole a ship.”
Mrsha glanced around. She wrote briefly without any of the excitement or questions she would normally ask.
That’s good. Did your [Dangersense] go off?
“…If it did, we were fighting. We saw a strange Antinium appear.”
Her paw slowed as she wrote.
What kind of strange?
“Glowing. With many, many eyes. It attacked Irurx and then exploded.”
Oh. That. Is it gone? Did it help?
“Yes and yes.”
Good.
They sat, Seborn not knowing what to say, Mrsha with a thousand-yard stare. After a while, he murmured.
“The moon. Tissl says she saw something pink zooming around the High Passes.”
That was part of it.
“What was it?”
Goblin King.
When she saw him staring, she wrote—
Fighting him. It’s done. He’s gone. Everything’s okay. There’s a hole in the inn, but no one…
Her eyes searched his face and stared at something else.
No one you’d miss is dead.
“Liar.”
That was all he could tell her. The girl just gazed at his face. She traced the next words in the air.
Yes. Seborn? I’m sorry. When you find out the truth, you can blame me. I did my best. I really did.
Unconsciously, he reached out to her. Trying to gather her up into his arms as he knew a half-Giant would. But his clawed hand just passed through her, and she…it was over.
“If it’s something terrible, I’ll live. Jelaqua’s alive?”
Oh, yes. She wasn’t part of it.
The Gnoll girl couldn’t meet his eyes. Seborn Sailwinds didn’t know what to say, so he just said:
“You did your best. I know what that’s like. Failing. Do you have time to meet my crew?”
She turned, and her eyes did focus on Irrel with surprise—but not shock. Tissl—she swept her gaze to him, and he felt as though she had seen this sight before, somehow. Eyes swimming with secrets and a burden kids shouldn’t have. He knelt and spoke to her.
“Mrsha. You’re coming back tomorrow, right? Or in a few days?”
She blinked and gazed at him. Then the girl did manage a tiny smile.
I’ll come back tomorrow. You know you’re sailing away from Izril, right?
“We’ll head a bit south. Thanks for telling us.”
They spoke a little more, and she vanished.
 
——
 
It took them about three weeks to make landfall at the next port. Three long, long weeks of realizing that if there was a current, they weren’t about to find it here.
Even enchanted, Gilam’s sails were only useful if the wind was with them, and several days of being becalmed off Izril’s coast were only lightened by Mrsha returning.
They talked. Sometimes only for a little bit before she had to go. She brought news, ran messages for Tissl; Seborn had nothing to say, and no one had anything to say to him…yet.
You’ll have someone here soon.
Just who…he didn’t know, but she avoided the subject. Nor did she spot this ‘magical storm’ Irrel kept claiming was northwards.
“It’s there. I know.”
The Dorhmin boy was so insistent that Mrsha promised to keep an eye on the weather, and she gave them running updates on how close they were and was very…helpful.
The day they actually saw the half-Elven port-city in the New Lands, she had a list of information she was reading from.
Okay, you’re meeting a ‘Zedalien’ in the ports. Weird name, but he worked for Maviola El.
“Ah. Good. Does he know about Irrel?”
He knows there’s a Dorhmin aboard and has told the half-Elves to chill out. I’d keep aboard, Irrel. There are lots of Terandrians in the city.
“Yep.”
Mrsha flipped pages and glanced at Tissl.
As far as the half-Elves are concerned, you’re in a nice ship—The Halfseeker’s Promise, which is registered and the paperwork’s done. You’ll need to get a [Scribe] to print the documents out somewhere else, Seborn. I don’t think they’ve got room for anything but essentials. Frankly, they wouldn’t let you dock except for hearing you’re out of provisions.
“And the poop deck is bad. Can we get cleaning?”
Three weeks, uh, had tested the new accommodations. They had plenty of space, but Seborn could use a bath and fresh everything. Mrsha nodded.
They’ll sell you supplies, which we’ve pre-paid for. It’d be expensive otherwise.
“Thanks, Mrsha. You did great. How’d you get all this done? And how did you pay them? By Courier?”
The girl scratched at her head with a quill and the ink ran off her [Inkless Fur].
Nah. They accept credit at Merchant’s Guilds because they can use that money to buy stuff themselves. The real trick is talking to the half-Elves and getting permission and stuff from anyone who’s actually in their colony. Some of it was Zedalien. He was really understanding. But mostly? It wasn’t even me, it was Tissl. The moment they heard a ‘sister’ was in trouble, they decided to help. The only non-trade ships they even allow to dock are Minotaurs, apparently.
“Good old-fashioned half-Elven solidarity. I’ll take it. We could have mentioned we ran into Shifthold. That might have earned us goodwill.”
Eh, better not. Lord Gilam has a bounty on a ship roughly like yours but a stupid name. And on Seborn Sailwinds. He’s reactivated your old bounty.
“Good to have a bounty at sea. Just not in a lawman’s port. We’ll rest there for a while. Thanks again, Mrsha. How is everything?”
She hesitated and glanced over her shoulder.
Better. I still don’t have that meeting for you, Seborn. Sorry.
And there was that thing between them. Seborn Sailwinds just focused on guiding Tissl into port without running into the half-Elves’ dock, then making sure Irrel wasn’t scrutinized too closely. Shaking hands with the half-Elf who asked him how Maviola El had looked in Liscor…watching Tissl staring around at her people and seeming the most off-kilter he’d ever seen her.
 
——
 
They spent a week in the port, and even Irrel managed to show his face with fewer problems than Seborn thought. No half-Elves noticed the Relic-class sword they hid in the ship, and a Dorhmin might horrify some, but the Balerosians and Chandrarians—and anyone who’d been to enough ports—just asked questions rather than go for blades.
The New Lands were hard. Seborn got an eyeful of the attempts at gardening and was, in fact, summoned to a few meetings with half-Elven leaders as a ‘seafaring expert’ about the salt problem.
He spent most of the time speaking to the half-Elven [Sailors], trying to get an understanding of the new currents and where the power was at sea. But the land was calling to him—the New Lands were an appetizing treasure.
Only two things stopped him from taking Tissl and Irrel and doing a bit of exploring on foot. The knowledge that they weren’t ready, and his own sense that their anonymity was a thin disguise that would be jeopardized if anything went wrong.
As it so happened…the jeopardy came in pairs at the same time.
 
——
 
“Whoa. Look at that. That’s the biggest guy I’ve ever seen!”
Tissl was spellbound as everyone else watching the throwdown between Archmage Valeterisa and Archmage Amerys. Someone had just leapt into the fray, and Amerys was zipping around a lone figure standing on a hilltop as the scrying spell zoomed in on his face.
They were sitting in a pub in the new city, which a lot of half-Elves objected to—but everyone needed to drink, so there was as much fancy wine as imported swill. She was drinking the latter as Irrel watched with a hood on his face, his lips open in wonder.
However, Seborn Sailwinds had frozen in his seat, staring at the man raising his staff. Tissl turned.
“Captain?”
“It can’t be. It’s him.”
Seborn stood up. He didn’t know where he was. He walked forward, towards the image being projected onto the wall, and his fingers reached out. It was…him.
There was no one else like him. But his height was off. Or the image was. And he looked older. But that face.
His Human hand was trembling when someone shouted.
“Oi, Drowned Man! Move your head, we can’t see!”
Seborn didn’t move, but when he turned his head, he seemed so shaken that the half-Elves exchanged a look.
“What is he, sick?”
“No, he’s our Captain. Seborn, what’s wrong? Seborn—”
“It’s Moore.”
Seborn didn’t know what was going on. The image shifted, and he sat down; he vaguely heard voices and felt someone helping him up. They were asking him questions, but he was just watching the scrying orb, now. Trying to see that man…
“Does he know that half-Giant? He’s fighting the Archmage of Lightning on equal footing! Tree rot, he must be Level 50!”
“What was his name? Seborn? I know that name…”
“The Halfseekers of Izril! Are you telling me that’s your teammate, sir?”
Tissl was trying to explain to the crowd of people, some of whom knew the name or had placed Seborn in conjunction with the inn. There was a Balerosian [Blademaster], Zedalien, whose eyes were sharp and focused on Seborn, and even a Minotaur [Captain] who had brought his ship from the north to get it properly repaired by higher-level [Shipwrights].
The latter narrowed his eyes at the Drowned Man as Seborn whispered.
“It’s him. But it’s not. It’s…what did she do?”
Resurrection? Or had he not…?
We buried him.
Did we bury him alive?
No one had any answers in the moment, and the wonder of Archmage Valeterisa defeating Amerys and Relc’s mastery of the spear was barely able to move Seborn’s eyes away from searching for the half-Giant.
He did not know, of course. But he knew. A meeting. Mrsha’s apology.
He should have been filled with rage. Or betrayal. Or shock. But all Seborn could think, suddenly, was…
I have to go back.
He had to, but he was thousands of miles out of place, and a figure stood, abruptly, in the pub as the cheering stopped.
“Excuse me, everyone! I am Honor Captain Hilyed of The Unbroken Vow. I wish to direct everyone’s attention to a matter of importance, if you will forgive my effrontery.”
He and a crew of Minotaurs were drinking at some tables, and Seborn glanced at the Minotaur…and felt like he’d seen him before. They were not all alike, and this Minotaur with his dreadlocks and voice—
Wait a second. Treant’s Landing. A Minotaur ship that had fought a Kraken off.
Seborn broke out of his shock and saw the Minotaur was gazing at him. He kicked Tissl under the table.
“Ow. Who the hell did that?”
Seborn kicked Irrel. The Dorhmin boy glanced up, then suddenly had to go to the bathroom. He pulled Tissl with him for…help? The Minotaur peered at them, then went on speaking.
“Did I hear correctly? That was your teammate, Captain…”
“Seborn Sailwinds.”
Captain Hilyed nodded and produced a pair of too-small spectacles. He read from something his ship’s [Mage] had handed him.
“Ah. And your ship would be—?”
“The Halfseeker’s Promise.”
Every head swung to Seborn, and Zedalien rose with a sudden, hefty sigh. But the Minotaur was speaking in that too-loud voice of a man who had a straightforwards decision ahead of him. No real choice.
Seborn had never met Calruz, but the Minotaur had always seemed vaguely annoying, for all his heroics.
“I see. So not ‘The Sword of Gilam’, a vessel stolen by yourself, currently under bounty for return to Lord Gilam of House Quellae? And not the ship rumored to have fought off Shifthold and have a Bloodtear Pirate aboard?”
Dead silence. Seborn put his hands on the table as Captain Hilyed and his crew stood.
“If we could have a word, Captain Sailwinds? We are not the law of the seas, but we do acknowledge it. Given the circumstances, I believe a reasonable s—”
Seborn flipped the table, or tried to. He heaved and slammed against the table.
Damn half-Elves and their genuine solid oak tables! He tossed his drink at the Minotaur [Captain] and [Shadowleapt] for the doors.
“Stop him!”
The Minotaurs were already at the doors. One leaned out from behind the exit and clotheslined him with an arm. They might be as big as oxen, but they were clever! One grabbed him, and Seborn cursed, grabbing for his daggers—
The Minotaur [Sailor] holding Seborn knew the [Rogue] wanted to escape. She tightened her grip, determined not to let go even if he cut her down to the bone. Even so, when the horse kicked her, she did fall over.
“Ow.”
It was a real damn kick too. Two hooves planted, two hooves flying with a double-blow that even a Minotaur would respect. Only a really pissed horse went for that. Or one being ridden by a half-Elf who slung Seborn onto the saddle as he trotted past the surprised crew.
Despite the angry horse trying to buck him, Zedalien rode the stolen creature like he were sitting at a table.
“When one works for Lady Maviola El…worked, rather, they learned how to make a fast getaway. Always have a horse ready.”
He galloped Seborn towards his ship as the Drowned Man blinked at him. He glanced over his shoulder; the Minotaurs poured out of the bar, shouting, but no half-Elves, and they seemed slower than he expected. Zedalien winked at him.
“A member of the Bloodtear Pirates won’t earn any sympathy here, but for a sister in the crew and someone who beat Irurx, you won’t have any pursuit. The Minotaurs, sadly, won’t relent. We’ll stall them as long as we can.”
“Thanks.”
“Your inn sounds like it would have made Maviola happy. I hope that was your friend. Best of luck.”
The half-Elf with silver hair tilted his head back, then swung Seborn with a good deal of force. Almost like he had experience throwing people—Seborn flipped through the air over the docks, [Shadowleaping] onto the deck of his ship.
“We’re getting out of here!”
He turned and lifted a hand as Irrel hauled the anchor up. Zedalien nodded to him as the Minotaurs raced towards their own ship…which had a bunch of ivy clinging to the railings!
“Those are criminals wanted by law! Stop obstructing us!”
A [Sailor] was trying to turn a ballista their way, but a half-Elven [Druid] was conferring with a [Lady], and both shook their heads at him. The [Lady] bowed to the outraged Minotaurs.
“I’m terribly sorry, horn-friend. However, it appears your ship has miraculously sprouted Instavine, a very rare, very endangered species of vine. We must remove it by hand while singing to it.”
“Very rare. Very sensitive to loud voices. Please stop shouting, sir. It must be bathed in a milkweed mixture under moonlight. Oh, what a fecund blessing. We should all give thanks to Mother Tree for this bounty!”
The Minotaur stared down at the half-Elves with that open mouth. The [Sailor] leaned off his artillery piece.
“I am not—we are not blind. But a Bloodtear Pirate is a [Pirate], even if they did best Shifthold! Is theft not theft?”
The two half-Elves exchanged a look, and the [Lady] folded her arms.
“Who said anything about theft? Or [Pirates]? But this brings up a fascinating debate. If one steals an apple from a tree in the middle of a forest where no one is around to hear it, is it not theft?”
“Or cradlerobbing? Sister, I think this is a fine point. We must adjourn to our Debate Parlors and sip, uh, honeydew as we consider this point.”
The Minotaur covered his face, then realized they were actually walking off. He roared at them to get rid of the damn vines as Seborn’s ship sailed away.
 
——
 
They had a fine head start on the Minotaurs. Not only did a mysterious wind spring up to fill their sails, but the Minotaurs were probably delayed at least an hour. Plenty of time…or so Seborn would have said.
But a newly-minted [Captain] was not equipped with Skills like a veteran Minotaur Honor Captain. Nor, for all of this ship’s enchantments, was it a match for a ship from the House of Minos.
It took them a while, but that red sail bearing the House of Minos’ horned crest never actually left the horizon…and it gained hour by hour as Seborn tried to take them northwards, hoping to lose the Minotaurs around the coast.
But the damn Minotaurs didn’t just have a superior vessel made by nautical geniuses. They had what Seborn suspected was a Jar of Winds spell, [Mages] on board to fill their sails…
And oars.
Seeing any ship that wasn’t a longboat deploy oars sounded stupid, but if there was any group that could row and catch you even with the wind at their back, it would be them. The thum-thum of their drums beating the rhythm was so loud that by the next day, Seborn was red-eyed and sleepless.
And they were less than two thousand feet away.
“Halfseeker’s Promise, haul to or we will begin striking your keel! You will be fairly judged in the House of Minos, my word on it!”
Captain Hilyed was bellowing from the prow of his ship. Tissl and Irrel looked to Seborn. He had his eyes on the northern horizon. They had only one chance…
Irrel’s storm. The one that the weather channel had finally spotted coming off Terandria’s northern coast. The magical storm named Thiborkilj was coming down across the ocean fast. Picking up speed along Izril’s western coast, and anything in its path looked to be hurled astray.
Even the House of Minos weren’t stupid enough to follow them into that, were they? Seborn roared at Irrel and Tissl.
“Irrel, they’ll kill you for a [Pirate] no matter what! Or put you in a work camp for ten years—if they don’t hang me for the same, I’m not wasting my time getting another ship! Tissl, you can abandon ship! There’s a way for us to breathe water, but you—”
“Nuts to that, Captain! I’m part of the crew! Hey, you Minotaurs! I’m an innocent half-Elven girl! Are you going to chase us to our deaths?”
Tissl waved at the Minotaurs with a huge smile, and the pace of their oars slackened slightly. Seborn was impressed.
She’s got a mouth on her. I’m supposed to be the one who does that. But they kept coming, so he exhaled. Seborn stared at the green cloud flickering along the familiar spiral of death that changed colors, and he swore he saw the rain changing color too.
Magical storm. It wasn’t as bad as the hurricane that Seve-Alrelious had sailed through, but…he spun the wheel slightly.
“Tissl. I’m taking first shift. Get some rest. Once we’re in the storm, no one sleeps until we see sunlight.”
She saluted. The Minotaurs were hesitating.
Was this really worth risking their entire ship and crew over? They saw the ship heading into the storm. Seborn Sailwinds was gazing at Irrel, and the Dorhmin boy said:
“Sorry.”
“Not your fault. I should have been more careful with my name. We’re a crew. A team. No one abandons the other. Ever.”
Seborn lashed the wheel into place; it was straight into the storm. He stepped back, then reached out; he and Irrel clasped hands as Tissl stuck her head out of the cabin.
“You can’t say stuff like that without me, Captain!”
He was grinning ruefully as Irrel smiled, and they turned into the storm that might kill them all. It was approaching, and the wind was beginning to suck them forwards, but they had time to turn; so did the Minotaurs, who’d slowed. The storm would take minutes, even perhaps as much as an hour to be on them.
But the point of no return was faster approaching. Perhaps…already reached. Then it would be the storm until the ship broke or it did.
That was, of course, how they found him. Seborn was looking around for the ghosts, who he hadn’t seen since he’d drawn his daggers in Irrel’s defense. He almost thought they’d found him again before he saw the telltale shimmer and saw their faces.
He never recognized Jelaqua’s bodies…but he knew her behind those eyes. The orange glow and the unsure smile—the way she stood ready to move.
And him. The half-Giant leaned on his staff just like the Moore that Seborn knew. His expression of guilt, his hunched shoulders, like he was trying to hide…oh, it was familiar.
Seborn Sailwinds turned, and the three Halfseekers who had known each other a lifetime were together again. His feet slipped on the deck as he turned from the two shocked children.
“Ah.”
A little Gnoll girl gazed guiltily at him and pointed at her face. Seborn focused on Mrsha, then—nodded to her once. He closed his eyes. Inhaled, exhaled, and then glared at them.
“What took you two so long? Cowards.”
 
——
 
The wind was whipping at the image of Seborn Sailwinds, and occasionally, it would drag a fragment or particle of his image and send it spinning away.
Magic on the breeze.
He sat with a greater peace than the other two had expected of him. But then, he had been shown the truth a day before they had; this was not the first moments of terrible knowledge. He had known…from Mrsha.
It was also who they were. Where they were. They did not have forever to talk, and that was the irony; the Selphid and half-Giant had left it too long. Jelaqua and Mireden were, of course, appalled.
“You’re taking children into a magical storm? Are you mad, Seborn? Turn the ship, now! I’ll speak to these Minotaurs!”
The half-Giant spoke with authority, weight, the duties he had accepted in his voice, and Jelaqua blinked up at him. Her first reaction was to think—‘who are you to give orders?’
But then she glanced at the storm, the two kids, and agreed. Not for the same reasons as Lord Mireden either.
“This is a bad idea, Seborn. That’s not someone you should have on your crew.”
“You mean Irrel? He saved an entire village’s life. He’s a Dorhmin, Ivirith.”
The Drowned Man was angry. His arms were folded, and he was stubborn, and the Selphid’s cheeks turned orange.
“Not that! I meant a Bloodtear Pirate. There’s some lines you don’t uncross. Those bastards slaughtered everyone in cold blood.”
“Not him. He swears he killed one person.”
“Yeah, the [Prince]! Listen to me, Seborn, this isn’t smart. And you’ve got to be smarter than stealing a ship from a [Lord] and—and challenging Shifthold? Are you mad?”
Lord Moore eyed Jelaqua and hesitated, not quite agreeing. He leaned forwards.
“Do you have a plan, Seborn? Some way out of that storm or this situation beyond sailing this ship?”
“No.”
The Drowned Man seemed rather pleased by their reactions. He shifted as he sat cross-legged, the surf now battering the deck of the ship.
“Look at you two. How long have you known, Jelaqua?”
“All of two days! And I was so beaten up about it I nearly came back and tried to kill him!”
Lord Mireden eyed Jelaqua as she waved her hands at him.
“Huh. That’s extreme, but fair. And you’ve been here since the moon cracked. You…but not our Moore. He’s somewhere else, with Ulinde. Safe.”
The Drowned Man addressed the half-Giant, trying to piece together what they’d told him, and Mireden nodded heavily.
“He…that was not your Moore, just a version that was close. He chose happiness, safety of a kind. I let him go. The world needed me more.”
“Good for him.”
The Drowned Man’s tense shoulders seemed to give a tiny bit at this, but Jelaqua clenched a fist.
“He could have come back…! I know it’s not him. But does he think it’s all gonna be fixed and safe wherever he goes? Why didn’t they all come back? They could have—!”
She avoided Mireden’s eyes. She hadn’t said that to his face when she’d heard about the [Palace of Fates]. Guiltily, Jelaqua cast around for Mrsha, but the girl was just sitting in a corner of the [World’s Eye Theatre], arguing with Nanette and scribbling on some flashcards.
Seborn’s eyes were upon the storm, and he spoke distantly.
“They had a choice. He made his. Seems like you two made yours. Mireden, if you want. I’m not going to call you Moore unless you want it. What the hell was up with summoning Amerys to fight Valeterisa?”
This time, it was he and Jelaqua who fixed the half-Giant with a stare, and Mireden was unapologetic.
“That was a planned action. Not perfect, but what should have been done long ago! By Erin if no one else!”
Everyone, including the two girls and the other listeners, blinked at the half-Giant. Jelaqua raised a finger.
“I agree there’s got to be some planning, but that’s too much. I’ve got some, well, little brats I’m taking care of, but you risked lives, Mireden.”
“I took a calculated risk. Liscor, the inn, we must be respected. How many times has Erin done something miraculous, or one of the other teams, and reaped no benefit from loot and gratitude from a few? The world doesn’t need more Silver Swords, half-forgotten by everyone despite all the statues. It needs change. And risk comes with that. I did it for a purpose. Seborn’s twice as insane as I am to throw himself into danger for a [Pirate].”
Irrel and Tissl were in the background, half-tending to the ship, but listening. It made Jelaqua’s heart hurt to see the Dorhmin kid glance down, but she stuck to her assertion this was too reckless, even for, especially for Seborn. The Drowned Man glanced at his crew and shot back.
“Eat seaweed, Mireden. I don’t stab my friends in the back even in other worlds. I did what looked right.”
“And here you are sailing into a storm.”
Okay, this wasn’t how she’d pictured this at all. She’d expected Seborn to be raging, to be in tears apologizing…not to be fighting. Jelaqua raised her voice.
“Lads, lads. Can we all agree that Seborn’s in trouble?”
“Yes.”
“No.”
Mireden and Jelaqua glowered at Seborn. He stood with his back to the storm, innocently lacing his fingers into his claw-hand.
“I’m doing great. Never felt better. I’ve got a ship, a crew, and at least four Relic-class items. Five minutes out of your lot’s hair and I’ve done it.”
Jelaqua’s eye twitched. She knew he was doing this on purpose because he was upset, but she was still having a hard time keeping her cool. She took a breath.
“Well, I’m helping some orphaned kids. Running an apartment for them, giving them some basic lessons, you know? ‘S good work in my retirement. Which is what a responsible adult would do instead of taking two kids on a stolen ship! Or throwing down with Amerys!”
She glared at the half-Giant, who stroked his beard with that arch expression the two could remember Moore having only when he felt like he was utterly, unassailably correct. It really…really annoyed them.
“I’m going to be a Councilmember of Liscor. And I’m above Level 50.”
“So what? You had ten years and that’s all you got?”
“I don’t recall you chasing Amerys off! I just recall her kicking the stones off you!”
The other two leapt on the half-Giant, and he jabbed a finger at Jelaqua.
“It’s better than beating a child half to death and becoming a [Landlord]! That’s what she’s doing, Seborn. And she was doing the ‘forced levelup’ training. She didn’t even warn the Scorchling.”
“You’re doing that again? And what, renting to people? That’s dirty work even for a Selphid, Ivirith.”
Jelaqua raised two fingers.
“Fuck you two. You had to have two kids bail you out because you couldn’t escape a ship, Seborn. And you’re so bad at being a [Captain] the only two people you could get to crew your ship are a wanted [Pirate] and Ceria’s younger sister.”
“Hey!”
Tissl and Irrel were glaring at the other two Halfseekers, but Seborn held up a hand. He spoke calmly to Jelaqua.
“At least I’m still an adventurer who works for a living, not a has-been wife who pushes around children a fourth of her age to make herself feel relevant. Or a half-Giant with all the morals of a Creler. Neither of you two have any edge left. You’re soft, spineless as a shellfish, and didn’t even have the guts to tell me Moore was alive for a month!”
There was a cheer from behind Seborn, and Tissl leapt up.
“You tell ‘em, Captain!”
“Yep. Burned.”
Jelaqua’s face darkened as Lord Mireden cricked his neck. The three stepped closer, as if ready to throw hands—which would mostly hurt the other two as Seborn was just an illusion. Jelaqua poked a finger at Seborn and hissed.
“I knew you didn’t want to get back to sea. The only reason you even got a ship is because of luck. You’re just making it all up, and the day you sail a crew to your dad and he gives you what you’re due is the day I sprout wings and fly! Those two kids have more treasure than you ever stole or found!”
“Says the Captain who led us to the not-glory.”
“Speaking as someone who actually made a difference—”
Jelaqua turned and punched his shoulder, and Seborn stabbed a knife through Mireden’s chin. The half-Giant went on without missing a beat.
“—I knew Jelaqua couldn’t settle down with Maughin and play the good wife without snapping. She didn’t even last a year. And you…”
He hesitated and tried to think of something Jelaqua hadn’t added. He pointed at Seborn.
“Father issues.”
Oh, it was ugly. Mrsha and Nanette were hovering, and Tissl and Irrel had stopped cheering Seborn on. This was his team. But his fists were clenched, and Jelaqua was vibrating with rage. Someone had to stop them.
This wasn’t how it should be. Not the Halfseekers. Nanette was staring from face to face, and Seborn’s voice broke a bit.
“You—you have a lot of gall to say that to my face. You’re not the Moore who fought with us. The Halfseekers died there. Do you know who deserved that chance, that choice? Ulinde.”
Mireden recoiled a step and stood back as Seborn swung his eyes to Jelaqua. She’d frozen.
“She, out of the four of us, should have gotten back up. She was just a kid, and we walked her into her grave. If there was a miracle, it should have been to her. Instead, it’s just him and the two of us. We’ve buried every member of our team. How’s it feel, Ivirith?”
The Selphid didn’t recoil from the blow of his words. She stood there, and her hands unclenched. Her orange eyes fixed on Seborn’s face. Then turned to Lord Mireden. She went still, as they had seen her a million times. A Selphid who could explode into unchecked violence. Then the Selphid spoke, her voice suddenly…
Lost.
“It feels like I’m back in the snow except I always make the same choice, every time. Every single time, Seborn. I want you to know that. Even in my dreams, we go. I can’t believe you’d do it all over again. It would break me.”
Her eyes focused on Irrel and Tissl, and she whispered, tilting her head to gaze at him.
“It’s not a passing fancy, is it, Drowned Man? Because if it is, I’d swim to you and break your neck.”
“No. It’s not. It’s just what you’d do if you were still an adventurer.”
He never blinked. His voice was flat as he locked eyes with her, then turned to Moore. Seborn whispered.
“It’s what Moore would do.”
Breathless with horror, the audience watched as the Halfseeker from ten years in the future drew himself up to his full height. The weight of a [Lord]. The disapproval of a man who had watched his world burn and found this one unready, wanting…vanished from that face as a gentler expression replaced it.
“Yes. It’s what he would want, but you always had the courage to do it before I opened my mouth. I just fear for them, Seborn.”
Seborn Sailwinds glanced over his shoulder, and the Halfseekers saw his Human hand clench tight, so tight he nearly tore his glove. But he didn’t let the half-Elf girl and Dorhmin boy see it.
“I’ll keep them alive. Unhurt, I can’t promise. What was I supposed to do, quit?”
He turned to Jelaqua, and the Selphid wiped at one eye, but there wasn’t much moisture.
“Turns out I didn’t. Not really. I just went back even further. Not an adventurer, but like…a company. That’s what I think I’m doing.”
They stared at her. Lord Mireden exhaled in sudden understanding. Seborn raised an eyebrow.
“A company? What, they’re going to be fighting in ranks?”
“No, dumbass. Supporting each other. Working together. I look at everything Izril’s got, and even if the Drakes can form a shieldwall, they don’t stand together. Here Melika—this Garuda woman who runs the orphanage, she’s great, a fan of ours—here she’s got these kids who’re brave enough to survive, and she just…lets them live.”
“What, with free will and everything?”
Mireden received a fast elbow but didn’t grunt as Jelaqua went on.
“They should be on each other’s side. Instead, they beat each other down.”
“Ah, the old crab bucket trick.”
Jelaqua pointed at the Drowned Man as he commented. She smiled.
“Exactly! They hurt each other when they should beat up everyone else. What’m I supposed to do, just ignore that? I even bought an apartment because someone has to do something. But I’m not gonna just be Miss Nice Selphid. That never works.”
Something was…wrong. The watching children on both sides of the discussion were confused. The Halfseekers had been at each other’s throats a moment ago. But they were talking, suddenly, voices far more level, and it was like the fight hadn’t happened. The wind blew at Seborn’s hair as he nodded, listening to Jelaqua, and all were utterly flummoxed…
Aside from two people. Nanette, who had been reading the emotions of the Halfseekers and not seen the same anger their words suggested. Anger, yes, but something else building.
And Irrel—Irrel, who had seen more duels and blood shed between the Bloodtear Pirates than any other crew. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates, the real crews who sailed together, would die back-to-back without a moment’s hesitation. He blinked and saw something similar as Jelaqua struck her chest.
“I’m just doing a bit of meddling. Nothing like Lord Mireden. Oh, and there’s Raskghar and Troydel. I’m just—poking things.”
“Whacking the beehive with a stick, more like. I’d rather take the Raskghar than Troydel.”
Lord Mireden was tugging at his beard.
“It’s been so long…who’s Troydel?”
“The annoying one?”
“Doesn’t narrow it down. Most of the Earthers are annoying. Giants rest, you haven’t even run into the bad ones yet.”
“Wonderful.”
Both Jelaqua and Seborn groaned, and Mireden lifted his hands.
“There’s one called the [Hero of Turns]—no, the odds are he won’t be the first. There’s this [Clown] that I hope none of you ever meet. Nevermind that. Seborn, the storm is getting larger. Your crew is headed into it. Are you sure you won’t turn back? The Dorhmin boy—”
“Irrel. His name’s Irrel.”
“—he could find his people. Neither Minotaurs nor Terandrians can follow you into the sea.”
Seborn Sailwinds turned and met Irrel’s eyes. Then raised an eyebrow.
“His people? What are they supposed to look like, Mireden? Tell me.”
The other two adventurers exhaled. Mireden with a gentle sigh of nostalgia, Jelaqua with confirmation. They nodded, and she nudged him gently, now.
“He got you there.”
“I let him walk me into it. Well…I’d let you stab me a few times, Seborn, old friend. If I can call you that.”
“I suppose. Though I’ll wait to see how much of you I remember.”
Mrsha was peeking at the three of them. They weren’t—they weren’t killing each other?
Of course not. The Halfseekers stood together, and the anger, the insults, and the very hurtful personal remarks were how a team fought. Close, vicious—
It was how a family fought. But now they were closer, and each one was peering at the other. Jelaqua muttered.
“You crazy idiot, Seborn. How’d you get to the one place where the inn and Mireden can’t help you?”
“It just sort of happened. So…you’re back, Mireden? Anyone else I’d know?”
“Just Kevin. And it’s really him. Not even a stranger.”
“Hah. Kevin. I like him.”
Then Seborn smiled, truly, and Lord Mireden bent his head and rubbed at his eyes, and Jelaqua laughed. They turned to the storm, and Seborn’s body was like static now, blowing in the air as magical fragments whirled away. He seemed to see the same thing in them and raised a hand.
“I think it’s time. Find me after this storm. I’m not done shouting at you two.”
“I’ll be around. Now that this big lug is in Liscor, I’ll be back, to entertain the little kids if nothing else. Oi, Irrel, kill anyone else who’s not a bad guy and I’ll hit you.”
Jelaqua drew a finger across her neck, and Irrel nodded. Then…she stepped back. Lord Mireden put his palms together.
“I’ll pray for you, Seborn. Something else we have in common.”
“I did it first. Don’t copy me.”
“Oh, for the love of—”
The half-Giant sighed and almost snapped back when there was a crash. One of the sails had snapped open, and Seborn whirled. Tissl leapt, and Irrel groaned. All three said the same thing at once.
“Damn it, Erin—”
Jelaqua and Mireden blinked as Irrel and Tissl jumped for the ropes. Seborn nodded at her, then stood there. He gazed at the other two. And the pain on his face was now visible. He took a breath, looked at the storm, then raised his Human hand.
“Hey, Jelaqua…Moore?”
“Yes?”
They gazed back, and for a moment, it was just them. Beyond time, beyond worlds…
Seborn Sailwinds picked himself up out of the snow and gazed at them. His lips moved, with the faintest trace of a smile. Blood and water running from his eyes.
“I can’t believe we made it, huh?”
“Yeah.”
Jelaqua closed her eyes. Mireden reached out for Seborn, a gaze of anguish on his features. Seborn tried to clasp their hands. Then he turned.
“See you later, Halfseekers.”
He vanished into the storm, and the Selphid broke down and wept, and the half-Giant stood there, gathering his resolve.
 
——
 
Thus, they went on their ways. Not to never see each other again. Far from it. If Jelaqua didn’t contact him after the storm was over, Seborn was going to tear strips off her.
But for a moment, he let the rain wash over his face, and the howl of the storm was welcome. A pleasant balm to his soul compared to what lay within.
“Captain. Was it good?”
Irrel asked him that question, once, and Seborn wiped at his face.
“No. It was horrible.”
He stopped and turned to them.
“Don’t ever let your teammates die.”
Tissl nodded, and she linked arms with Irrel as the storm’s waves plunged them down. Seborn grabbed the wheel as Irrel seized hold of his jacket. And then…
 
——
 
Then the Selphid hugged the half-Giant and the cutest little girl she could find—and a Sariant Lamb—and ran, blubbering, to the kids she was supposed to impress. He stood there, eyes closed.
Like a man savoring a dream he had forgotten and clung to, which was now before his eyes once more. Like an ambition you had failed to catch, but which you could see once more, burning with all the intensity you had first felt for it.
The most painful thing held in his hands.
He refused to let go.
 
——
 
What then? What note could be given to continue the Halfseekers on their way, to put paid to their adventures which had brought them together again, on their paths?
And truly, even if you had not heard this conversation meant only for their ears, if you searched them up, if you believed even a tenth of what they had done, what they’d seen and lost, did you really…
Did you really want to sail into that storm after them?
Captain Hilyed of The Unbroken Vow knew what honor meant. He knew what the law was and how perilous things could be if it was bent and abused for personal reasons.
But he also had an idea of what Shifthold meant and what sacrifice meant. He had a list of deeds unsung for a Gold-rank team, a tale of a tiny crew who had defied Shifthold, and, on the other hand, a bounty written in a vindictive screed by a [Lord] who hadn’t even registered his ship.
He had a tale of the sea versus the writ of the law for a Bloodtear Pirate.
He had a half-Elf’s words and the evidence of his eyes.
Hilyed knew what honor meant. He fancied he could hear it and even see it at times. So he leaned on the bow of the ship, thinking. Watching that ship plunge into the magical storm.
“Captain?”
“I know. But I am conflicted. We stand at a crossroads, and our honor is at stake as much as the ship.”
He addressed the crew, hoping they were locked in the same decision he was. For it was not, should not be easy. As it turned out, though…they were not engaged in a philosophical crisis. One of the [Sailors] tapped the Honor Captain on the shoulder.
“Captain, er, before you…”
Then the Minotaur blinked and gazed down. Down at the little Gnoll girl with white fur.
“Horns of Hammerad—”
He nearly leapt off his own ship. Mrsha held up a card innocently.
Hello, Captain. Did you really fight a Kraken?
He stared at her. The girl peered at the shocked crew, then cleared her throat. She switched cards.
I hate to bother you important Minotaurs in this very important moment! However, may I ask if you’re really from the House of Minos?
Hilyed had yet to find his voice, so one of the [Sailors] coughed, rubbing at the hoofmarks on her chest.
“Yes. We are. We crew The Unbroken Vow, ironically. Are you—did you have business with that Drowned Man? He’s left.”
Oh, he’s busy. It’s okay. So…you’re going back home?
The [Sailor] peered over Mrsha’s shoulder at the rapidly-departing ship. In a minute or two, they’d be hard to catch. Near impossible with the storm. She was glancing at the oars and the weighed anchor. They were not, in fact, stupid.
“Yes, child. Did you have a question beyond that or are you just trying to distract us?”
Captain Hilyed inhaled. He set himself, ready to bellow an order, and not even he knew which it would be in that moment. Every eye fell on Mrsha as she innocently switched cards.
I just needed to be really sure you were important. Important enough to petition an Arbiter of Law or the King of Minos herself on behalf of an improperly judged Minotaur. It would not do for him to die dishonored when I have evidence he’s innocent.
No bellowed order came from Hilyed’s mouth. He exhaled slowly and then knelt.
“This Minotaur would be…?”
Calruz of Hammerad. He would have been judged by Venaz of Somewhere (sorry, I don’t remember where he’s from), but it wasn’t conclusive. He was sentenced under Liscorian law as an oathbreaker, team-murderer, and worse. He’s still alive paying off his debt he’ll never fulfil. And maybe that would be justice…if it were all his fault. If he wasn’t being manipulated.
The crew was eying each other, murmuring, trying to see if anyone knew that name…
“He was part of the Horns of Hammerad. The disgraced Captain. His family, his home, mourned the news. He was indeed a traitor—what possible knowledge could undo his actions?”
The girl gazed sadly up at the Captain, and he wondered if this were a lie until he read her words.
Never his actions, Captain. But if someone manipulated him…
Then perhaps he was helpless, too weak, or too ill of judgement to notice or fight it. But that changes everything. The [Captain] glanced at the distant ship, and then his lips quirked, but he was as serious as could be.
“I would hope that knowledge is reaching the city that judged him. Liscor. And if you had such knowledge, child, surely you would approach the King of Minos herself with your wonderful abilities.”
The next card flicked up fast, and he realized they were pre-written.
To that point, Captain—
Mrsha checked the cards, held up a finger, and then sorted them. She flipped to another one.
Sadly, the King of Minos is warded, and I can’t visit her. So is most of Minos. Very sadly. This is a matter of extreme honor. And Liscor will be told. But would you like to hear the story of a brave Minotaur? It’s sad and tragic, but maybe it has a happy ending.
She sat on the railings, and the [Captain] glanced around. He received nods from the crew and lifted a hand.
“In time. First, we have a storm to evade. Helm, to the south! We have been from the House of Minos with cargo too long!”
Then he was striding across the deck, roaring orders, and the Minotaur ship was turning. The girl sat on the prow of the ship, giggling to herself. She waved at the ship carrying the Drowned Man and his crew onwards.
Waved and waved. Hoping to see them again soon.

Interlude - Acceptable Romance (2025-10-12)

Oh, yes, they’d all seen that Archmage soar. Somehow, the sight of a Human woman in her sixties flying upwards was more impressive than a hundred people born with wings. Not just because she’d done it when she’d been born without the ability to fly.
It was the drama of the moment. Seeing Archmage Amerys stealing Valeterisa’s work, the way one was so clearly stronger, bullying—yes, bullying Valeterisa, even if it came in the form of grand spells and magic? That struck a chord as well with anyone who had ever longed to fight back or see someone get what they deserved. And who was a bigger villain or bully than one of the King of Seven’s warriors?
It struck a chord on so many levels, that woman’s story.
Pallass was abuzz with it. Dead gods, Izril was.
On the heels of Archmage Valeterisa’s battle with Archmage Amerys, and the advent of Lord Mireden, there were people eyeing Liscor as a place to go to. Rumors of some academy were spreading. And you had children, young adults, and adults themselves wondering—
Could that be me?
Because it was one thing to see Archmage Amerys throwing lightning around or the half-Giant withstanding a storm of magic. But Valeterisa didn’t look like the last of a legendary species or a heroine from stories.
Of course, the trick was that you’d delude yourself into thinking she hadn’t worked harder than anyone else to get there, but the dream…that was changing Izril. It benefited Pallass in no small way; Drakes and Gnolls might well come to Pallass as the acceptable gateway to the north. But it was not a perfect afterwards for Pallass.
An incident had occured. A tragedy, really. The makings of one so upsetting, so hindering to the City of Inventions it outweighed all the good from that moment, even seeing the King of Destruction’s [Mage] humbled.
That was, of course, Grimalkin the Sinew Magus of Pallass and his dramatic confession on air. Everyone had seen it. While it had been overshadowed by the magical duel, now, in the aftermath, it was being discussed. Tragic, so tragic…
“I think something has to be done, I truly do. I’m not the one pushing for it, but—we’ll see what they have to say. Melika, you have your [Socialite]…powers. What’s the mood of the citizenry like?”
Lord Werdin Blackwing was adjusting his doublet as they got out of the elevator for their rendezvous on the 6th Floor—a private gathering spot, the Dragonfire Museum. It was ostensibly a huge building with twin pillars supporting a roof that stretched almost to the ‘ceiling’, where 7th Floor sheltered it. A massive and public space that exhibited some of Pallass’ treasures and history for the public.
However, the size of the building did not match the museum size: it had six floors that were private and had been converted into office space. And a fully functional kitchen that occupied an entire floor. And a ballroom.
After 11 PM, the entire museum closed unless you were a Ruby-card carrier, in which case you had the run of the building, and wasn’t that fantastic if the rich and powerful needed a place to gather but didn’t want their servants picking up all the trash for a week thereafter?
Melika Blackwing knew it well. It was the kind of place you only got invited to if you were truly ‘in’ with Pallass’ high society. Someone like Jelaqua Ivirith, Grimalkin, or even Chaldion would never appear here for various reasons.
Jelaqua Ivirith. Melika clenched a feathered fist as she exited the elevator in a scandalously befeathered dress that looked tribal—not that she’d know what was culturally insensitive, but it was no ballroom dress. This was rather less formal, and Werdin only wore the doublet because he didn’t have anything more casual.
“Hm? What? The mood in Pallass? There’s a lot of confusion around this Lady Pryde now that everyone’s put it together, dear. But the Sinew Magus is enduringly popular. It’s more scandalous than outrageous for most of the young folk, I think. I heard everyone at the orphanage talking about it.”
Rather intently too. Werdin grunted as he rubbed at his neck spines.
“And the nobility?”
“Oh, much like you, Werdin.”
“Blast.”
He took that as ‘outraged’ rather than ‘dismayed’, which was what Melika meant. She felt it was more shock and anxiety than actual anger, but Werdin was muttering.
“Something’s got to be done. Of all things a Human [Lady], let alone…! If it was some poor homeless wretch from the north it’d be fine. But not one of the nobility allied to Magnolia Reinhart. Then again, she’s passé right now. Couldn’t it have been some student of his at least?”
Melika opened her beak as she saw more people stepping out of elevators. Unlike, say, Invrisil, no one was taking a carriage; what was the point in a city like Pallass? Public transport did for the upper class here.
“I—surely bedding a student is more scandalous, Werdin? Lady Pryde was a fan of his.”
“Was she? Don’t be bird-brained, anyways, Melika. A Drake or Gnoll or even Garuda or Dullahan student is infinitely preferable to—I thought he and that Gnoll apprentice he had were sharing the same bed.”
“Sinew Magus Grimalkin is a [Mage] of exceptional integrity, Werdin!”
The Lord of the Walls seemed irritated about Melika correcting him. He adjusted his doublet again and then strode for the side entrance to the museum.
“Don’t get peckish at me. What, are you molting? You look excellent as ever. I’m just saying—I’ve met the Tome Magus, Glasiaad. Isn’t it normal…? Aha, Chorlic, there you are!”
The question was left unanswered as Werdin strode forwards and slapped shoulders with Wall Lord Chorlic. Another noble of Pallass, but one who had connections besides his nobility. Chorlic ran three famous restaurants and hired the top-level [Chefs] in the city. Despite his name, he was rather fit. He slapped Werdin on the shoulders a few times; they’d known each other since they were hatchlings.
“Werdin and the lovely Melika, as always! Good to see you! Everyone’s already inside. Huge turnout this time. I think there’s sixty of us and some rather fine spicing to tonight’s repast.”
Werdin cast around reflexively.
“Shh! Melika and I were just discussing the Sinew Magus thing. I imagine that’s the topic.”
“Oh, yes, of course. Such a problem. Why don’t we go inside…? My date is just fussing with her hair. Sharke, are you done yet?”
Melika recognized the name, but she was still surprised to see the beautiful Dullahan peering into a hand mirror and adjusting her curls. When she saw Melika, Sharke stepped out of the elevator she’d been using and waved.
“Melika and Lord Werdin!”
“Er, Sharke. Delighted.”
Werdin grew uncomfortable and folded his wings as Chorlic put one arm around his date for the night. He was unmarried, despite being the same age as Werden—in his forties—and Sharke accompanying him for the night made utter sense.
She was, like Melika, a [Socialite]. Just not married yet, and Werdin had gone out with her before tying the knot with Melika.
The Garuda smiled at her friend and took Werdin’s arm.
“Well, I can see I have someone to talk to. Werdin, would you like to go ahead with Chorlic?”
“Of course. Chorlic, you have to get me a reservation at your restaurants. I hear you’re up to something, and I have a few friends who’re interested. But first this Grimalkin thing. What did you think?”
The other Wall Lord kept walking as one of Sharke’s arms disengaged to go with him. He rolled his eyes at the little stunt and tossed her arm back to the Dullahan.
“What do I think? I can’t see it. I mean, I heard she was disfigured. She looked quite nice before that, but what’s under the bag?”
“Be serious, Chorlic.”
“I am. I’m dying to know—fine, fine, don’t flap your wings at me. It’s outrageous, of course, but d’you know what anyone else is saying?”
The two stormed ahead, heading up the stairs to the 8th floor where everyone would be. Melika and Sharke hung back, waiting for the elevator. Melika whispered.
“Chorlic, really, Sharke? He’s never going to be anything serious.”
Sharke’s eyes were dancing; she had on very lithe, very form-fitting armor that made Melika self-conscious, and she appeared at least a decade younger than she was. Her curls were dyed purple today, Melika noted, a very nice look.
“Well, he’s easy, and I wanted to see what everyone was saying about the Sinew Magus! I knew you’d be here. Nice dress. Fits well with the mood.”
“Bah, it’s from two years ago. I’m just recycling half of them at this point. I don’t need to try as hard with Werdin. So how are things? Found anyone you think you’d like to settle down with?”
The basis of the [Socialite] class was, of course, to advance one’s position. And there were many methods to that, but one of the most basic was to marry upwards. For Melika and Sharke back in the day, finding that suitor had been a source of competition and teamwork between the two.
However, Sharke just pulled a face.
“I’m not sure I want to marry and have to push out a kid or two. Maybe I’ll find someone who already has a kid like you, Melika. Then again, Werdin might get that itch…and I’m not just talking Yellow Rivers.”
Melika shuddered.
“Sharke. Please, we’re about to eat. It must be something you have to navigate…”
“You have no idea. I practically ran out of most dates rather than, you know, get more intimate when it was bad. So do the others in our class. I heard Rolt actually caught it.”
“Oh no. Was it as bad as they said…?”
“He has scars. Eugh, I asked him to show me them—”
The doors opened, and the two women shut up a second as they found some actual museum-goers who gave them strange glances. The two women were dressed for a party, and Melika inserted the red chip she had into the elevator, which unlocked the 8th Floor as a destination. She hit the button, and the elevator went up, stopping to let the museum-goers out. Sharke went back to talking at once.
“Anyways, where have you been? I’ve heard about you, Miss Melika. The rumor is you’ve been a bit wild. What happened to the spotless feathers of Pallass’ most charitable noblelady? Scrapping with a gang and feuding with a Gold-rank adventurer?”
Melika snorted out her beak, annoyed as Sharke reminded her of Jelaqua.
“Pfft. Did you get that from [Rumors on the Wind] or something?”
“No, just teasing. Is it true you asked the Watch to arrest that Gold-ranker who married Maughin?”
“She’s a menace. She attacked the children in Uplifting Wings—nearly beat one of the girls to death! Then she threatened the landlord of the property and made herself the owner! I’m trying to keep the young folk away from her, but…”
“Wait, the landlord? Isn’t that the old fogey you asked me to try to talk around? The horrendous one?”
“Yes, but—she’s worse! Sort of!”
Melika groused in Sharke’s ear about Jelaqua Ivirith, who had gone from her inspiration and heroine to a foe. Just you wait, Jelaqua. Melika Blackwing was not someone to cross! She’d, oooh, she’d…ruin Jelaqua’s social reputation! Arrange for someone to misplace her next catering order! Beat down her shoes if Jelaqua left them at the door to a fancy ball!
Sharke and Melika paused as they walked down the corridor to the private ballrooms where some security was ensuring only the right sort got in. They were waved on past, and the Dullahan [Socialite] turned to Melika.
“She is a Gold-rank adventurer, isn’t she? Good luck. I’m not making an enemy of a Selphid who can beat a Wyvern with her bare hands.”
Melika drooped. It was, uh, hard to imagine a way to fight Jelaqua in any arena other than polite society for her. Even if you daydreamed about hiring a gang to beat her up—and Melika didn’t actually want that—the daydreams mostly turned into Jelaqua Ivirith mopping the floor with any number of hardened ruffians.
“Nevermind Jelaqua, Sharke. You’d like her aside from how much she brutalizes children! Ugh, let’s just put our smiles on for your sake.”
The doors opened, and the two entered the night’s engagement, all sunshine. They knew everyone’s names, in order, and who had done what, who was grieving or upset—
If Jelaqua Ivirith could storm a cave with her mace swinging, this was Melika and Sharke going in with Skills blazing.
“Lady Duskal, so good to see you. You’re looking a decade younger; what is that new armor polish doing?”
“Senator Ciltrel, you rogue. Melika’s taken, and I’m with a friend tonight. Back, back, I say!”
[Socialites] turned, recognizing the two veterans of such events and either nodding or pretending they weren’t all about the same task. That was the key in moments like these: you had to have someone of Melika’s class.
The high-leveled society of any city could be so dreadfully dull sometimes. Pallass had a higher-than-average quotient of [Socialites] given the city’s egalitarian approach to multiple species and trade. Manus? Practically none.
Melika and Sharke brought that charm, quick conversation, and tact that made you actually feel like you were among elegant peers rather than, say, someone who was just rich or knew the right people. Which wasn’t what you wanted to feel like at all! Especially if that was the only reason you belonged here.
Well, the other thing Melika brought was her perspective, which was remembering a life before she was rich. Werdin lacked it; he’d been raised with literal silver spoons in his mouth from the day he was born. He had the first spoon he’d been given framed in their bedroom with his baby teeth marks on it. He hadn’t just married Melika for her looks, though that had been part of it; he knew he could rely on her instincts in these moments.
So she kept a finger on the pulse of the room as Sharke circled any of the men she thought were on the up-and-up or whom she hadn’t met yet. It seemed like there was a good deal of concern; she heard Grimalkin’s name again and again, but this was also, clearly, a good reason to just get out and have a fun time.
It was Gnorna, the 7th day of the week, perfect since you had Zenze to sleep things off before you had to get back to work on Beithday, and everyone knew that the Dragonfire Museum was for the fun gatherings. It had a…reputation.
That was why even old Duskal, that unlikable battleaxe who just ‘oversaw’ the Engineering Guild, was here, glancing at a table. There was a strong odor of incense in the air; someone had lit several candles and dimmed the magical lights, giving this room an intimate vibe.
Oh, it was going to be like that, was it? Melika rolled her eyes as some of the visitors, a mix of politicians and businesspeople, grew excited. She saw Sharke cover her mouth and cough.
“Ugh. That’s strong. What do you think? Dreamleaf again?”
Melika sniffed and instantly drew Sharke over to a table. There was food and ‘special’ food present; she did a quick check to make sure she didn’t grab anything ‘fun’ by accident. That was the last thing she needed.
“Not edgy enough. No, it smells like…Roama’s Fancy. Mixed with something else. Here, get some water and bread in you.”
She took several brisk bites of bread and stuffed herself with it and water as Sharke did likewise, grousing.
“Roama’s Fancy? Someone has no taste. Everyone’s hitting ampules of Carivek in bars.”
“Shush.”
Odds were the organizer of this particular party was here, and there was no sense in making enemies. Still, the heady drug was just too expensive for Melika’s taste, even if it provoked energy and excitement.
Not that she did more than Dreamleaf puffers these days; she had to set an example around the children, and they could smell just as well as anyone else. Plus, all of this was highly illegal in a Drake city like Pallass.
Highly. No Dreamleaf let alone anything stronger. Pallass came down hard on that sort of thing…which was why this kind of event was so prized for the people attending. Dead gods, every [Senator] here had probably voted in a measure on strong anti-drug and smuggling laws.
If Melika let that kind of thing bother her, she’d never sleep. It was just how most societies went. There were rules for thee and rules for me, and I’d also really like to have fun.
Hence Lady Duskal appearing by the table, grabbing a tart, licking it, and her pupils growing huge in her eyes.
“Oh my. I’ve been waiting for this all month. I wish whatshername, the Drake with the armor, had stayed for this. Melika, you must try this. I’m seeing myself twenty years younger. When I really wore this armor, you know? She’s so beautiful, me.”
Okay, and those were definitely tarts laced to the nines with Elf’s Tears if Melika was any judge. Dead gods, if licking it was enough—she fended Duskal off as the Dullahan woman tried to seize her arm. Duskal was already crying.
“That’s wonderful, Duskal. Truly. Sharke, I think Duskal needs something to eat with that tart. And seats.”
They found the Dullahan woman a seat where she began to blab about her missed youth to a Drake in the same condition. Sharke groaned.
“I hope Chorlic’s not also eating tarts. I rather fancied an evening after this, you know. He’s not that bad.”
“You’d never marry him.”
“No, of course not, but we can be friends. Where is he? Oh, good, they’re over there with the braziers.”
There were a few types at this kind of party. Those like Lady Duskal who went off the deep end and became loners, if only in their own mind, the group that was here to either socialize or try to hook up—they’d vanish into other rooms or circulate—and the last group, who wanted that social gathering, but with the edge of whatever was burning in the air tonight.
Melika found Werdin and Chorlic talking animatedly near one of the hanging lamps burning whatever was in the air. They were visibly having fun, and wine was flowing along with other various substances; she wasn’t surprised to see her husband and Chorlic also had cigars.
Dead gods, it must take the [Cleaners] ages to do the ceiling and rug. However, the conversation wasn’t trite. It was about him.
“The Sinew Magus really has done it now. Truly, I never thought he was all that. But after seeing him punch out the Frost Wyvern, I thought he might be fit for High Society. Well, until I heard his opinion on drinking let alone anything more fun. But then he does this? What are we to do with him?”
One of the Drakes was talking loudly to nods around the room. Werdin growled.
“On live television no less! What was that idiot Noass thinking?”
“Now, now. It wasn’t Noass’ fault! I take umbrage to that, Werdin.”
Noass’ defender was no less than Sir Relz himself, who waved a claw as he adjusted his monocle. He was high society; Noass was sometimes allowed in such gatherings, but only because Relz was there. Right now, Noass was absent; perhaps at work. Werdin caught himself.
“I apologize, Relz, I only meant—”
“No, no. I was there. Ridiculous. You can actually see me trying to push that woman off screen. The moment I saw her, I thought to myself: ‘he can’t be serious’. But then he said the part he shouldn’t have out loud.”
Sharke and Melika glanced at each other. The Dullahan edged into the conversation, taking Chorlic’s arm.
“I thought it was rather romantic myself.”
The entire group laughed at the airheaded Dullahan, which was what Sharke had tried for, of course, but Melika thought Sharke had meant it. The room was mostly Drake or Gnoll with notables from Dullahans—very few Garuda. As outsiders, she and Sharke had a lot of sympathy towards Pryde, even if she were a Human.
“No one’s throwing you out, Sharke. We’re talking about politics here. Northern politics. If she was just some Human, then it’s fine.”
“I was just saying that, Chorlic. It’s because she’s a [Lady]. Not just a [Lady], either, but House Ulta.”
One of the big names. Ulta sent forces to the south, and if it wasn’t of the Five Families, it had salt, and it was just…the north. The group rumbled as Senator Ciltrel took a huge drag on a puffer stick.
“Indeed. The Assembly of Crafts is talking about it nonstop. My peers across the aisle are united with me in that it’s going to be a problem…but we’re not going to make it a matter of policy. What would we even write? Something about not fraternizing with Human nobles? Even so—he just can’t do this. So. What’s to be done?”
The entire group presumed that it was they who had to fix this matter, of course. The Sinew Magus of Pallass was seeing a Human [Lady]. For the sake of Pallass’ reputation, something had to be done.
“It’s a security risk. We could make it policy…”
“Bah, you’re not actually thinking he’d betray Pallass, are you? No, it’s the look of the thing! We’ll be the laughingstock of the south! Sir Relz, are you getting complaints?”
“Am I getting…? We have thousands. The [Message Mages] are complaining they can’t keep up! Countless cities are outraged!”
Melika put in a comment here.
“Funny. I didn’t hear that sort of thing in Pallass. It must be predominantly-Drake cities who don’t have trade with the north.”
Werdin huffed. His eyes were bright, and he was speaking faster—so was she, Melika noticed, and she hadn’t taken any drugs. But the bread and water would help her absorb and mitigate what was in the air. Good thing too; Garuda were light, and she had very little body mass to absorb drugs, so they’d hit her hard.
“Well, let’s face the facts. He said what he said. The question is, what do we do about it? If it were anyone else, I’d say let things play out. People will abandon his gymnasium, confront him on the matter, and he’ll wise up or leave. Only—it’s the Sinew Magus. We can’t lose him.”
Yes. Everyone lost their smiles and drank or puffed or went for refreshments. Sir Relz waved a cautious claw.
“We wouldn’t lose him. Not Grimalkin. Name a better son of the walls.”
“Valeterisa? And didn’t Fissival lose her?”
Relz gave Sharke a genuinely irritated expression and snorted.
“She was a Human.”
“Yes, but she was theirs. Didn’t we hear as much when she lifted the entire damn city overhead? Sharke’s got a point.”
Chorlic was puffing hard on his cigar, almost down to the butt. He appeared worried.
“I hear House Ulta practically worships that [Lady], and she’s been a fan of our Sinew Magus for a while. Let’s say, hypothetically, Senator Ciltrel outlawed their relationship. Might he leave for House Ulta?”
That sobered the company up a bit. Werdin unfolded his wings in a rush of air, and Melika coughed. The effect of the incense in the air would only get stronger unless someone cracked a window as the haze got deeper. She was getting a bit light-headed. This wasn’t just Roama’s Fancy.
“We can’t lose him. We’ve already lost Duln, Pelt, 2nd Army is a mess, and with Chaldion practically a Yellat…”
There was a palpable unease in the air. Someone spat.
“Hey, wasn’t this supposed to be uplifting? Who’s got a lighter? Hit a few more lamps, would you? Pallass is doing fine. General Edellein—”
“—He bungled the High Passes. Don’t snarl at me, he did. I don’t care what Errif and his lot say. Do you see him here? No. Edellein’s got to prove the New Lands work. I’m just saying, between Duln and Chaldion…we can’t lose someone of Grimalkin’s level.”
“He’s no Archmage—”
“He’s going to get there. You think making those gymnasiums doesn’t earn him levels? I swear, he looks tougher. How close is he to Level 50? We all saw him punch that Wyvern Lord. Plus, with that [Lady], he’s got to be levelling the old-fashioned way, you know?”
A few indecorous hip-thrusts made the speaker’s point clear. Melika rolled her eyes; it was a popular rumor that activities in the bed also levelled you up. She didn’t think that the evidence was more than circumstantial, but the laughter lifted emotions up. Then everyone grew contemplative again.
A Drake [Merchant] who did huge amounts of trade on the 1st Floor glanced around after a moment.
“…Seriously, that woman? I heard she was so ugly the bag over her head was a mercy after some battle at Liscor.”
“Well, would you consider going out with the Sinew Magus?”
“Ugh, point taken. I suppose it makes sense…but she’s so fleshy and pink.”
Melika happened to think that Sinew Magus Grimalkin beat most people she could name in this room for personality…even if he was physically the most imposing Drake she’d ever met. If she’d been on the rise and he’d had his current reputation, she’d have given him a shot. She spoke before they could continue badmouthing the Sinew Magus.
“I imagine they’re about the same level. Above forty. I would probably guess the Sinew Magus is closer to Level 50, though. Which begs the question—is he one of Pallass’ Named-ranks in all but name?”
That silenced the snickering and made them uncomfortable because the Sinew Magus had at least ten levels on most people present. After a moment, Werdin drained his glass.
“We can’t lose him. Period. He works with the army, his weights are popular—”
Chorlic nodded.
“I use them. No indeed, we can’t lose the Sinew Magus. Not that it was ever a question…! But with all this uncertainty and the damn Antinium in Liscor, it makes me think we should cultivate a few more Named-ranks than Saliss.”
“We have more than Saliss, just not in Pallass. Like Glasiaad up north.”
“He’s old. Do we need Saliss…?”
“He accounted for an entire wall’s worth of Wyverns. Annoying as he is, what happens without him?”
Another long silence. Someone muttered.
“I heard he was causing a fuss before he left. Something about, you know, Turnscales?”
Expressions soured on several faces, and Melika made gasping noises with Sharke, but she noted not everyone was that upset—or more interesting, people that overplayed how upset they were. Werdin, who was a good middle-ground for most opinions, the very definition of the consensus in the room, shrugged.
“Turnscales? What about them?”
He turned to Melika reflexively, and she muttered.
“The Watch was after his cousin, I think, dear. He objected—strenuously. I don’t think he blew anything up though.”
“Well…have them ease off, I say. The last thing we need is for him to leave. That’s simple. Why the hells are we wasting gold on that lot, anyways? Do we have a Turnscale problem? I don’t see anything degenerate.”
Werdin turned to interrogate Senator Ciltrel, who shrugged helplessly and vouchsafed that maybe it was General Edellein’s initiative? Which got the group arguing over whether he should have Chaldion’s old authority—of course not.
And like this, the wheels of Pallass did turn. Because these conversations, here, were just as powerful as any group lobbying the [Senators]—moreso since the [Senators] valued and respected their peers here.
But Grimalkin…the voices got more anxious and the speakers more impassioned after the first hour. Melika was sipping water as Chorlic pounded a fist on a chair where they sat about. Normally, they might have entertainment, from [Dancers] to something they could watch or—more ‘risque’ activities she could grow uncomfortable with.
Werdin knew her line, and he had his own. This group had layers, and you didn’t always want to go too deep…there was little reward and a lot of risk if you made them nervous by objecting or appearing uncomfortable. But right now, this was business.
“We need to do something, damn it. It’s a Human! He knows better! He’s not some ordinary citizen. He’s the face of Pallass! It’s like taking a dog to bed. A Dullahan or Garuda is so much better, even a Selphid like that [Smith]! No offense.”
Plenty was taken, but Melika unruffled her feathers as a Gnoll put his head in his paws.
“Conflicted loyalties. And it makes us look bad. What if…what if…what if he proved he was loyal to Pallass?”
Werdin waved his third cigar at the speaker.
“I like that. How?”
“I don’t know. Make him announce it? On truth spell?”
“That’s tasteless. Makes it seem like we doubt him.”
“Make her swear.”
“Who’d trust a Human [Lady]’s word? You can fudge truth spells. Everyone knows that…Wistram’s hinting about a more advanced truth spell. No, it needs to be something more…more…”
“What if she gave up her claim to House Ulta?”
A few people sat up and exclaimed happily at that. Sharke coughed.
“That won’t work.”
Even Chorlic glowered at her, but she shot back.
“She’s the last heir to House Ulta. She can’t renounce her claims.”
“Well, shit on my tail. Something else then! Maybe we’re coming at it the wrong way. We’re the City of Innovations, damn it! Let’s innovate! What if…what if…she signed business agreements with Pallass? Salt for Pallass?”
“Hah! I like that! We don’t pay Zeres for it, and she proves she’s here to help the city.”
“Mm. Doesn’t play well with the normal citizens, though. That’s just the top level.”
Melika was swaying a bit in rhythm with the rest of the group. She felt like she was part of something bigger…she shook herself, snapped out of the trance and realized Sharke was still swaying along. So were Werdin and Chorlic; she nudged Sharke a few times. That broke her friend out of the effect. Werdin was just fixed on Senator Ciltrel, who was gazing at the ceiling for inspiration. And found it.
“That’s it! You know what it is? It’s…it’s about reputation.”
The Drake was trying to beam his thoughts out of his head into the others. He tried to explain, shooting to his feet in sudden excitement.
“Yes! It’s because she’s a [Lady] and he’s not! That makes it seem like she’s better than he is. Therefore, better than us! Some Human noblewoman marries the Sinew Magus when he’s of lower rank to her—it’s power imbalance!”
“Aaaah! Aaaah!”
Chorlic and Werdin pointed at the Drake, beaming. Werdin snapped his claws after five tries.
“That’s it! We have to elevate the Sinew Magus! A Lord of the Wall!”
He raised his voice, and then there was a visible hesitation around the group. Sir Relz lifted his hand, palm outwards.
“No—no, wait, that’s going too far.”
“Wait, that’s right. We can’t just elevate him for no good reason. We did that for Chaldion, but that’s because it was Chaldion. Plus, it makes it look like that’s to equalize them. So…so…”
Lady Duskal had joined the conversation, having come down off one trance-high into another.
“So we bring her down.”
“Right. How?”
“What if…we can’t strip her titles. What if—what if we had the Sinew Magus show Pallass, show the south, who’s in charge? Like—like—I don’t know, put a leash on her?”
Melika sat upright and laughed.
“That’s the stupidest idea I’ve ever heard!”
She turned to Werdin and realized no one was laughing. He was nodding along like a bobbleheaded toy.
“That’s brilliant. Have her wear something or—or demonstrate her loyalties to Pallass. What about a neckband and community service? For her crimes against Pallass? Her family’s crimes and all the dead Drakes and Gnolls.”
“Werdin, you’re a genius.”
Wall Lord Chorlic got up and embraced his friend. There was a round of applause as the group gasped and leapt to their feet. They’d done it!
“Hold on. I think…that’s a bad idea. She’d never do it.”
Scowls turned on Melika as she tried to think. It sounded like a good idea…? Or did it…? Someone harrumphed at her.
“Well then, she’s not actually in love with the Sinew Magus, is she? Maybe a collar’s too obvious. What about a wristband? Some kind of subtle…thing. Then everyone knows, but it’s not noticeable. Chokers aren’t in vogue, anyways.”
“I like that. I like that. What if we made every visitor wear one who’s not from the south? Put a tracking spell on it?”
“You’re a genius. I’m a genius. And if they really want to show loyalty, they can get a scale-etching, or what do the Humans call it? A tattoo…!”
Melika got up after a second. She felt dizzy. She felt like this was all bad ideas, but why…?
She had to go to a window and crack it open and breathe in and out several times before something occurred to her.
I’ve been drugged. No, wait, I knew that, but…
“Melika. Melika—something’s wrong.”
She turned and found her friend was there. Sharke. The Dullahan’s pupils were large in her face, and they were…swirling? They gave Melika the impression they were rotating.
“Sharke, you’re drugged out. You didn’t eat something, did you?”
“No. Your eyes are swirling too, Melika. The burners…someone lit too many. Or it’s too strong. Help…one of the new girls is over there.”
She pointed, and Melika saw a young Drake girl, perhaps a mere [Social Climber], [Partygoer], or even just [Popular Girl], was slumped across a chair. Someone was trying to rouse her, suggesting they go together—
Melika and Sharke almost tossed the man aside. He might have been well-intentioned; Sharke lifted the girl up.
“What did you eat?”
“N-nothing? I feel like I’m flying. Don’t lift me up, I’ll fall, I’ll fall—”
She was panicking. Melika steered her towards the table.
“What’s not spiked? Water, she needs water and bread.”
They made the young woman eat and drink despite her protests; it had an immediate effect on her, and she calmed slightly. Some of the other [Socialites] not with a partner had noticed something was wrong too.
“This isn’t Roama’s Fancy. Someone’s laced it with something a lot stronger. Damn. I thought I heard someone bragging about a delivery from overseas.”
Melika slapped her cheeks, hard, and focused up more.
“Nomaudrel? They have warning labels and how much you’re supposed to take.”
They were very good about it, actually. If she got anything, it was from Cont’dvalle, where you could get the highest-class stuff without worries someone had diluted or spiked it. The Gnoll smoking on a white stick gave Melika a wry gaze.
“Nope. Too expensive, so they had a ‘new’ broker. Empire of Sands, Chandrar. For all we know, they might have ignored the warnings either way. Here, take a puff of this. It’s a Cleansing Cigarette. There’s a Centaur in Liscor who sells me them.”
Melika took a huge puff, letting the smoke linger inside her lungs, then exhaled it. She recoiled from the foul, orange smog she released.
“Can I leave our new friend with you all? I have to get my husband, and Sharke has Lord Chorlic.”
“Sure. We’re out. This is a disaster. I threw open three windows and told security. We’d better all clear out before someone makes a scene and the Watch gets involved or they do something really stupid. Hey, kid, what’s your name?”
The Drake girl was panting.
“L-Lilac.”
“Uh huh. Sure that’s your name.”
“I’m with Senator Ciltrel. I can’t just go—”
The Gnoll [Socialite] took Lilac’s arm.
“You can, and you will. C’mon, he’ll forgive you, and if not, you don’t want to be here anyways. This is one snort of Selphid’s Dust from everyone eating each other.”
That was a more prescient comment than Melika liked. She strode over to Werdin and seized him; the think-tank group was coming up with more ideas for the Grimalkin situation, and they were getting more and more extreme. Sir Relz was writing everything down, monocle digging into his scales as he grinned.
“Werdin, we have to go. Right now.”
“Later, Melika. This is gold.”
He pushed at her, but she grabbed him and offered the others a fake smile.
“I’m so terribly sorry everyone, but it’s Salkis. Our daughter’s up to a bit of trouble. Werdin, it’s important.”
He hesitated, but then got up with a curse. The others barely noticed, but Sharke had gotten Chorlic up as well with the far simpler implication that they should have sex, right now. The two pushed the two Drakes towards the door.
“My coat and—”
“Forget it!”
Melika thought the air had cleared a bit inside, but when they burst out of the Dragonfire Museum into the actual fresh air of the 6th Floor, she gasped the cool spring air and realized how much she’d been inhaling.
“Ancestors, I need another smoke from that cigarette! Who did she say sold her that…? I’ll buy some now!”
Sharke was feeling at her hair and face. Instantly, Melika grabbed a perfume bottle of the most smelly stuff she had and sprayed Sharke, Werdin, and Chorlic with it.
“Hey! You got my eyes!”
“Hush!”
A group of [Guards] were coming. They eyed the quartet, and one of the Gnolls began sneezing at the insane amount of perfume in the air. But they didn’t pick up drugs—Werdin and Chorlic froze, then waved as Melika and Sharke breathed in and out slowly.
“Good job, Melika.”
The Dullahan patted Melika on the arm, and Lord Werdin blinked a few times. He snapped his fingers under Chorlic’s eyes, and the man started.
“What the hell did we just—? What was in those damn lanterns? I was out of my mind there, and so were you and everyone else!”
Werdin was visibly shaken too. He felt at his clothing, then nodded at Melika.
“Good work, Melika. I’m going to lodge a complaint with…! They’re still in there. Should we do something?”
“I think security will break it up soon. I don’t believe we should be anywhere near the Dragonfire Museum. We were all at our mansion if there are any arrests or…incidents. Which is where we were all night. We had a walk, and we’re going back now.”
Melika emphasized this, and they all began speed-walking back to her and Werdin’s estate. The Drake just kept turning back.
“I swear, I thought it was a good idea to just—”
“Dogwalk a [Lady] of the north?”
The idea sounded even more insane when Chorlic said it out loud. Melika couldn’t believe she’d even laughed at that.
“Who set up the night’s meeting, Chorlic? Werdin?”
“I don’t know, but whomever they are, they’ve got some explaining to do. I heard things were more edgy on the 8th, but that’s far and above…”
Sharke rubbed at the back of her neck a few times before disengaging her head; she had a bit of filth from the incense built up on her armor, and Melika needed a bath for her feathers.
“Senator Ciltrel was the heart of the room. Before you all had that huge think-session, he said he was on the rise because of new allies. Some sort of multi-city group of like-minded thinkers.”
Werdin wasn’t impressed.
“You always get those. Multi-city loyalties or someone lobbying him for support?”
Sharke shook her head.
“No, he was referencing Zeres specifically. I think it’s that new [Lady] I’ve heard rumors about. Wall Lady Shaullile and her Alliance of Free Thinkers? I’ll watch out for anything advertising their idea of fun.”
Melika hadn’t ever heard that name before. She frowned, wondering if she’d been too preoccupied with Pallassian politics recently and taken her thumb off the larger scale. Well, that damn Jelaqua…
 
——
 
The return to their estates was uneventful. Once there, Wall Lord Chorlic and Sharke departed with thanks; from the way the Wall Lord was asking if Sharke was doing anything tomorrow, his impression of her talents had deepened.
Werdin was also grateful to Melika for getting him out of there. He was clearly rattled and went off to summon a personal [Healer] who could be discreet and cleanse anything remaining.
Melika just had a bath on her patio. She washed herself thoroughly, then had the presence of mind to send a Street Runner to search for the other [Socialites] she knew.
“Gunpi, are you and the others alright?”
Gunpi, the Gnoll [Socialite]—or ‘Grumpy’ as she was nicknamed—scowled as she showed Melika the butt of her Cleansing Cigarette. She blew smoke across the servants eying the bedraggled group of mostly-female partygoers.
“Fine. We got everyone who wasn’t engaged or out-of-their-minds out. I had to actually toss a bucket of water on one couple. They thanked me before they left.”
“You’re welcome to stay the night if you don’t have places to be. Werdin’s calling for a [Healer]. Drinks, food?”
The troupe marched into Melika’s sitting room with gratitude. Melika knew most of the older [Socialites], and even if they’d had rivalries, well, they were in the same boat. She’d landed a husband and power, they hadn’t.
Grumpy Gunpi, who was on the edge of being young enough to do this song and dance, was smoking on the balcony with one of the young women that Melika vaguely recognized. She frowned at the young woman, wondering where…
“That was ugly in there. I’ve never seen it that bad, and I’ve been doing this a decade longer than you, Melika. Worse, though, was that they were into it. That wasn’t someone overdoing the dosings. The longer you stayed in there, the more you felt like everyone was a genius. If they’re not arrested, I think half that lot will want to go back for a round two. Me, if I sniff that cocktail twice, I’m walking out.”
Melika nodded. She eyed the newcomer, whom she didn’t recall from the 8th Floor gathering at all. Yet again, they had met somewhere. The girl was drinking a goat’s milk and gasping for air.
“It was a bad scene. Sharke thought it had to do with a Wall Lady in Zeres…? But I didn’t ask her why she was so specific.”
The young woman glanced up, and Gunpi raised one brow.
“Hm? Oh, that’s a good guess. I know who she’s talking about even if I’m too addled for the name. She uses a lot of drugs, I’ve heard. Some of the most outrageous ‘parties’ you’ve heard of. Real deep stuff. The kind where you wear a mask and illusion spell and deny knowing about it.”
Melika shivered. That was too deep for her. The most she’d gotten up to in her youth was a few drunken encounters behind a couch or in the curtains where you might get caught out.
“Well, we have plenty of rooms for the night. Who’s this? What happened to that new girl, Lilac?”
She peered at the young woman, who was distinctly Human. She seemed…well, she was definitely some kind of [Charmer], and Grumpy Gunpi bared her teeth in an amused smile.
“That’s the one funny part about tonight. We hustled everyone out, and guess who was so addled she accidentally dropped whatever illusion spell she had on?”
She pinched the cheek of the young woman and got a yelp.
“Hey! Stop that! I’m sorry! Thank you for helping with—with—”
Melika put on her best ‘I am serious and adult’ face and put her hands on her hips.
“If you’re going to do that again, young woman, you’d better listen to Grumpy—I mean, Gunpi here.”
Gunpi tried to step on her toes as the young woman blushed.
“Thank you. I was just…I’m Rose.”
“Sure you are.”
Both Melika and Gunpi chorused. The young woman nearly dropped her goat’s milk.
“No, I am!”
Melika patted her on the head. She thought the girl was far too young for this, but she’d been that age or younger herself when…
Wait a second. Her eyes narrowed as she recalled seeing Rose with Jelaqua! Melika had been so hammered drunk she’d assumed that Rose was just another [Socialite]. Well, well. She held her tongue on that meeting, but it made her fix Rose in her memory. [Special Contacts List]—someone to take note of.
Gunpi slung an arm around the girl’s shoulder.
“Yes, yes, and I used to call myself ‘Nightfur’. At least you weren’t stupid enough to drink. Let’s get you inside before I figure out if you’re a new fish or just never ran into that before. By the by, Melika. What’s going on with Sinew Magus Grimalkin?”
Rose turned as Melika grimaced.
“Oh, that. Given how insane the night was, I think nothing much. It’s clear that they believe Pallass needs to make sure he’s loyal, but exactly how, no one had a good idea for. You should have heard the things they wanted him or that [Lady] to do.”
Gunpi nodded, face half-shadowed.
“Must be hard. I think someone wrote on his gymnasium wall this morning. ‘Traitor’ or something—”
“Grimalkin’s no—”
The Gnoll woman put a hand over Rose’s mouth.
“Yes, yes, kid. The adults are talking. Melika knows the real movers and shakers. Melika?”
The Garuda sighed.
“If you’d ever met the man, you’d know he’s like a rock. Unshakable! I’m going to advise Werdin tomorrow to take a soft touch with him. All this negativity he’s going to get is bad enough. The worst thing would be to push him away.”
As a citizen of Pallass, and a [Socialite], that was her take. Let the south rage at him; they didn’t see that genuine affection she’d seen—and been jealous of—when he gazed at Lady Pryde. Gunpi nodded, but with a frown.
“Yeah, get me someone who looks at me with a bag over my head like that. That’s good. So…they’re not doing anything right now?”
Something about the way she said that made Melika pause and her wingfeathers itch.
“No. Why?”
“Well, I swore I heard Sir Relz calling for a City Runner as I went out. Something about ‘sending Grimalkin a plan of action’? But they were arguing over who sold the best accessories first. Something about either wristbands or chokers.”
Melika’s beak opened. She stood there in such horror that Rose and Gunpi grew alarmed. Then she squawked and took off, flying into one of the patio doors, then through the mansion, shouting for Werdin. By the time he came stumbling downstairs in a bathrobe and heard her out, it was too late of course. Even with a [Message] to the Runner’s Guild…
 
——
 
Lady Pryde Ulta was reading letters in her rooms in Grimalkin’s mansion. He’d accorded her rooms because she should have a place that was her own, even if she preferred not to be alone. It was that curious thoughtfulness that she liked in him.
Well, among other things. For all his insights, he was amazingly dense in other ways. For instance, he truly hadn’t anticipated the reaction to his speech on live television.
She had.
She’d been prepared for this the moment she’d realized he wouldn’t leave and she couldn’t chase him away and didn’t want to. Say many things, but Pryde was no fool.
So, letters. Most were from predictable names. Some were unpleasant, friends she’d thought she had, but she read them, then made notes. She also filled a magical trashbin that had a storage spell on it, thankfully.
Too many black roses for any regular wastebasket. Lady Pryde smiled as she came to one letter she did like. It was from Wuvren and simply read.
 
My dear, you’re head-over-heels, aren’t you? You must come by to tell me all about it. Don’t falter now! Love and kisses,
-W.
 
For a woman she’d never gotten along with out of jealousy and other reasons, Pryde really appreciated it. She touched the black lipstick mark and then added it to her ‘save’ letters. Even Magnolia had written a letter in pink.
Pryde nearly tore the one up that said from ‘House Walchaís’. But after a moment, she placed it to the side, unopened. She glanced out the window, wondering if the crowd would be back tomorrow; the Watch had dispersed them, but it would get worse.
She was content, but was he…? That was where Pryde’s confidence faltered. She glanced towards the other room where she’d heard Grimalkin return.
“Grimalkin? Was it an emergency?”
“Just a letter. Normally the Runner’s Guild filters the spam.”
“Oh. Anything important?”
 
——
 
Sinew Magus Grimalkin read the untidy handwriting and the signatures on the bottom of the letter addressed to him.
From ‘concerned members of Pallass’. He read the letter three times, forcing himself to read each sentence and commit it to memory, though it burned him more than profane magics to memorize.
One should remember what was said, perfectly. Especially when the stakes were important, and this letter was written and signed with that intent. Even if it stank of substances that he suspected were highly illicit—
Well, the Watch wouldn’t take this as proof anyways. And I didn’t trace the Street Runner’s path. I wonder if I could.
Those were absent thoughts on the edge of the Sinew Magus’s [Calm]-enforced discipline. After the third re-read, he shredded the letter with his claws.
“Nothing, Pryde. How are you doing?”
He placed the remains under a book on his desk and walked to her rooms. Rather to his unpleasant surprise, he found her sitting on her bed with a pile of empty envelopes she was kicking into the wastebin. They covered the black flowers, and he opened his mouth to say something—
Then saw the same yellow letter in her hands he had just shredded. He whirled.
“How—? Did they send a second—?”
His blood boiled, but the [Lady] just raised an eyebrow at him. And he remembered. Soft power classes were the most annoying to fight everywhere.
“If I thought it would help, I’d do it. I have heard of similar things being done in the north with poor Drakes and Gnolls, if not so explicit.”
That was all she said as he snatched the letter back. Grimalkin began to shout, then modulated his voice.
“I would never ask—I would never permit such a thing.”
Her gaze softened, and Lady Pryde got up. She put her hands delicately on his arms, as if he were the fragile one. Few people treated him like that. Only her.
“Oh, Grimalkin. You should have known it would be difficult.”
“There is no reasoning behind it. No logical reasoning—I have debated those willing to engage in civil discussion. Are we a species ruled by mindless, reactionary bigotry or logic and evidence?”
“Do you want the answer to that?”
He thought she was teasing him until he saw the sympathetic look in her eyes. Grimalkin sat down on her bed.
“I thought Erin Solstice was the only one who could deliver truths capable of breaking one’s spirit in a few words. The notion my own city could do the same is…disheartening.”
“It’s not all of them.”
“No. No, of course not.”
He tried to reframe it, understand the numbers of those visibly detracting from…it didn’t work. Lady Pryde leaned against him and murmured.
“It will become far harder.”
She spoke without mercy or any softness. Like a jagged edge of salt that her people mined, and it stung in his open wounds. But the Sinew Magus of Pallass just gazed at her.
He didn’t say something as trite as, ‘it is still worth it’. Or, ‘I would never change my decision were this a thousand times worse’. Or…then he decided he should say those things.
It had occurred to Grimalkin, after a few conversations with Jelaqua, Nanette, and Ishkr, all of whom he regarded as superiors in the romantic realm in some way, that many problems could be avoided if he took the example of Lord Tyrion Veltras.
If the man would not say something, Grimalkin should say it and thus do the opposite of Lord Tyrion except in a few notable ways.
So, he turned to Lady Pryde and smiled. She frowned at him.
“What?”
“I am merely attempting to formulate a list of the many ways I wish to inform you of my admiration and love for you. I regret that I know so few languages in which to express my feelings.”
Her eyes widened, and he took her hands. Ah, yes.
Then all was right in the world.
But the Sinew Magus vowed not to forget. Pallass and Izril could say what it wished to him. But never sully his Pryde.

10.47 S (Pt. 1) (2025-10-18)

It was his custom, before he left, to survey his city. Not if he just stepped out the door for a quick daytrip, but when he left on a journey. It had been a while since Saliss did it last, but he stood on the roof of the alchemist’s workshop, gazing down.
The inner rings of Pallass sank below his eyes as tiny elevators rose and gears whirred endlessly; a children’s box, an engineer’s fancy, all the way from the inverted pyramid to everything else in his City of Inventions.
It was a strange Walled City, you had to admit. Saliss knew history, real history, and the other Walled Cities hadn’t been like this. Heck, Pallass hadn’t even been a Walled City at the start, just a quirky village of [Engineers].
It hadn’t set out to be some grand edifice, like Salazsar’s lofty towers, floating Fissival, or Mershi, that city that declared itself to have mastered the stars. Pallass had always been noisesome, chaotic, and in a way, unpretentious. It was just the people inside who forgot.
The Drake spread his arms as he let the rising sunlight bathe his orange scales. He stood naked above the city as it woke and wondered how he would return. With head held high or quietly, ashamed of what he’d done? Would he return at all? It was always a chance, even if this wasn’t a deadly mission on the outset.
“I’m going for a while. Take care of yourself for me, would you?”
He wasn’t sure if he spoke to Mirn and those like him, the city itself, or the people down there. There would be no Saliss of Lights if Wyverns attacked. But they had Grimalkin and themselves, and that had to be enough, right?
He wasn’t sure if he loved this city or hated it. If it lifted him up to this 9th floor or was the weight around his ankles. Saliss knew how he felt about people…but the city? He liked the ambiguity, sometimes. Because he couldn’t say his decades of service, his time here, his grief, and his triumphs had been in vain. Not to Pallass itself.
“Time to go.”
Saliss inhaled the fumes of alchemy, that acidic tang filling the air from the alchemists already at work in the morning. He smiled as someone slapped a broom on the roof tiles.
“Saliss! Saliss, get off my roof!”
Xif was howling below, waving a broom as two of his [Alchemist] apprentices stared up at Saliss. Which was not his best side; Saliss dodged an empty potion bottle with a flick of the leg and pirouetted.
“Goodbye, Xif! I’m off to the New Lands! I’ll miss you!”
He blew a kiss at the Gnoll, who shouted back.
“You always do this! Shoo, shoo! Someone give me something to throw at him—”
The apprentices were too scared to huck things. They must have been new. Saliss didn’t move his feet, but swayed at the hips, dodging a collection of objects. Stained beakers, pieces of cobblestone, an empty alchemical bin…he snagged a piece of glass out of the air.
“Ooh. 50 mL graduated cylinder? I needed one of these. Thank you, Xif! Don’t cry. I’ll bring you some dirt as a souvenir.”
So saying, he pocketed the glassware, and Xif shook his fist as Saliss leapt down to the railings and walked along the edge of the 9th floor, a sheer drop down to the 8th below him. An elevator attendant waiting for passengers turned and glanced at Saliss, but he was so normalized that the Dullahan barely gave him a second glance.
“Don’t hurry back on my account! And you’d better get me whatever’s interesting there! Don’t you dare send me monster dung like last time! Farewell, Saliss! No one likes you!”
More [Alchemists] were poking their heads out their windows, disgorging colored smoke, to see what the fuss was about. They too called out to Saliss as he waved, rolling his eyes.
Silly old Gnoll. If only Saliss could view this as a true adventure and not…work. Work for people he hated at that. He sighed. Tomorrow morning, bright and early, he had to be on the 10th Floor for his ride with General Idiot and crew.
The New Lands were calling. Not just Edellein, it seemed.
Saliss could hear them. Like a voice singing, calling him southwest like the legendary ‘Sirens’, a long-dead monster species. An alluring, charming voice that spoke death and adventure.
He loved it. He hadn’t felt that draw for a lifetime, but he had resisted it, because here was where he was needed, and he’d been right.
The Goblin King. Saliss clenched one clawed hand and wondered, again, how he was alive. He had run into a battle he was unprepared for, and only the miracles of The Wandering Inn had allowed him to survive. He was grateful, of course, but still…
This was why he had stayed. For moments like that. Saliss had been expecting to have to murder his way through hundreds of would-be [Assassins] from Roshal, Erribathe, the Blighted Kingdom, and so on to defend Erin’s home in her absence.
He’d only had to kill three. And after the Goblin King, maybe, just maybe…the inn would be safer? He could only hope, because his orders were taking him south, and he could not easily refuse them nor that call.
Still. As the Drake descended the 9th Floor, he walked with a certain lightness, waving at people, smiling, but in a way that even Pallass’ citizens could tell was off. So they slowed and gave the annoying orange Drake a second look. Called out to him, because there was something in the air. Like the scent of alchemy—a mysterious feeling that drew the eyes.
He truly did say goodbye each and every time before he left on an adventure. A true adventure. You might not come back from those.
 
——
 
Oops. Saliss was on the 4th Floor when he noticed the eyes and realized his aura was leaking. He pulled it back under his skin, shaking his head.
“What am I, an Erin?”
That reduced the staring somewhat. But the Drake decided it was okay and let just a tinge of who he was, the abundance of his soul, permeate his scales.
Auras were a funny thing. Everyone had them. Everyone could train them. But like classes, they were weighted towards the ‘important’ people. A [King] had one exponentially stronger than anyone else of their level.
Saliss could manifest his because, well, he was over Level 50. Because his class was sort of cool. He liked to think he’d surprise another aura-expert with his tricks, but he wasn’t about to aura-slap a Titan like Magnolia Reinhart.
Your aura was just like your class. In time, it defined who you were. The signature of your being, more complete than any mark or stamp. He had stood in Torishi Weatherfur’s presence, and hers could conjure the very sun.
Dead, now. Saliss thought of her. He thought of fallen comrades. So he said his goodbyes seriously enough. For him, it was all he could do. Honesty and Saliss didn’t mix.
“Hey, Watch Captain Qissa! I’m off for the New Lands! I know, I know. What will you do without me?”
He shouted as he kicked the door to her office open, swarming into the 4th Floor’s Watch House so fast that the Desk Sergeant didn’t have time to stop him. The groan from the desk was of resignation, anyways.
Watch Captain Qissa was his favorite Watch Captain to annoy and just in general. The Drake with her scars from fighting gangs and monsters and her ink-black scales under both eyes complimented her rust-red scales wonderfully. Saliss loved beautiful things, be it alchemy or otherwise—but he loved beautiful things that were beautiful because they had been crafted, improved.
Natural beauty was easy; it was luck. Qissa was a former [Gangster]; she told people those ink-black scales were hereditary. There had used to be the Inktear Gang who dyed their scales like that. She’d quit, turned a new leaf over, and become a Watch Captain.
Saliss liked that story because Qissa never told it. He doubted other Watch Captains knew it unless they’d been around when the Inktear Gang was terrorizing westward cities in Pallass’ aegis.
Now, Qissa was a Watch Captain, and she’d be a good Watch Commander when the time came. He was glad that Liscor had got Venim. If they’d stolen Qissa, he’d actually have gotten annoyed.
The Watch Captain’s reaction to Saliss was to jump at her desk.
“Saliss! What now—?”
Her look of frank alarm was his fault. First he’d put the Turnscale business on her, then he’d been a bit more annoying than usual of late. She registered his comment and relaxed.
“The New Lands? Oh.”
Saliss grinned.
“Less work for you, right? No, don’t cry. Here.”
He offered her a box of tissues, and she swatted at it. Held his eyes for a second, and he felt bad. She believed in the law, and he was one of those things that existed outside of it. Too powerful to control, too well-connected to censure. Needed.
He was the Watch Captain of Pallass for the rules only he decided, only he could enforce. Zevara disliked Erin for good reasons. Qissa should hate him too. She’d seen more than enough of what he could do when he wanted to. Of late especially.
 
——
 
“Saliss. What—?”
The Drake had made too much noise in the last encounter. He was patiently waiting over the dead body as the squad of [Guards] surrounded him.
“Hey, Qissa. Sorry, this is the third one this week. Tell your kids to turn around, would you?”
He had a vial of strong acid in one hand, and he’d already looted the would-be [Assassin]. Qissa didn’t see black clothing, though. Just a dead Drake. Who wore the midnight black of a killer except when they were already in position? Saliss had to explain that, of course.
“A hired killer? You’re sure?”
“My eyes don’t lie.”
“Do they have any identification? Do you have any proof?”
“None on ‘em. But I do have proof.”
“I need to see it.”
“Here.”
He handed her a few documents she couldn’t read. The magical cipher made the words swim on the page, and she stared at the mark on the upper right corner.
“The Eyes of Pallass?”
“Good luck on getting them to share the cipher, but yeah.”
Saliss knew they were watching. Qissa’s head swung around, and maybe she spotted a few of them, but they were shy. Especially around him.
“Did they authorize this? Saliss, this looks like…”
Some of the new [Guards] were giving him the side-eye. They had never seen their funny Named-rank doing anything serious like this save for the Wyvern attack. Qissa would probably have to swear them to silence. Work for her. Saliss felt bad.
“This one put up a fight. Took a few minutes.”
“We don’t have a kill-on-sight policy for any foreign agents except Taimaguros or Jungle Tails or…”
“I know, and I know. This one was heading to Liscor.”
For the inn. No one had told him to do this. Chaldion might have if he were still able to lead, but he also might have okayed all this. It had been Saliss demanding reports from the Eyes, Saliss who’d operated alone.
Qissa stood there as the Named-rank Adventurer began to pour the liquid over the body. He saw her piecing the clues together.
“Saliss…”
“Yes, Qissa?”
He gazed up at her from where he squatted. Pallass’ protector. She knew that too. He had warded his City of Inventions from everything he didn’t like. Roshal’s [Slavers] disappeared here. Adventurers with less-than-sterling reputations found other places to live. Even Named-ranks.
No [Assassins] passed through here on missions he didn’t like. The Guild in the south had long since abandoned putting contracts on Saliss.
This killer had been high-level. Sent by Roshal as far as the Eyes could tell. Even they had limits on how many they were willing to send to die. If Lord Xitegen and his surprisingly sneaky Golems held the north passages and the Unseen Emperor his lands, then it was just Invrisil’s door that the Thronebearers had to hold.
The Watch Captain watched Saliss dissolving the evidence.
 
——
 
The Thronebearers of Calanfer had done well, and they had an [Assassin] of their own at the inn. They should be fine.
He had to trust that. Saliss glanced at Qissa as she sat there, then turned.
“Right! See you!”
“Saliss.”
She rose from her desk, and when he glanced back, she held out a claw. He came over and shook it, smiling, that clown annoying a dignified Watch Captain. But Qissa’s touch was just firm and gentle.
“The New Lands? I heard a huge expeditionary force was heading south under General Edellein.”
“Yep. Too large, probably. But what do I know?”
Her eyes flickered, and she frowned. But then she nodded.
“So you’ve been called in. The city will miss your protection.”
“Aw, what do they need me for?”
She shook her head slightly. Glanced down at the floor, where the [Guards] were probably listening in; the door was ajar. To his surprise, Qissa gazed up at Saliss and studied him a long time. He’d wondered if she’d balk when he threatened her over Turnscales. Or if seeing him kill more [Assassins] was the bridge too far.
That would have hurt. He’d have found another Watch Captain to annoy, though. But Captain Qissa just remarked in a level, carrying voice—
“Sometimes I think that Pallass and its cities don’t realize what you do for us, Alchemist. We will have a harder time without you. Did you know Liscor offered me the job of Watch Commander?”
“I know Venim took it. Not interested?”
He didn’t understand this line of conversation, but Qissa just smiled at him. It was so unlike her usual glower that he wondered if she was sick.
“I thought Watch Captain Zevara would take the job, honestly. And I was worried that if I took the post—how would I replace her? I did some digging into her background, and she went up against the Soot gang, I heard. For ten whole years she fought a war on Liscor’s underworld, alone. How do you replace that?”
“The Soot gang? Never heard of them. Must be small fries. How could a Watch Captain of Liscor be more important than a Pallassian [Guardsman]?”
Saliss lied. The Soot gang had run deliveries across the border. Not big, but not unimportant. Qissa snorted. She folded her claws and turned to a map of their holdings, a huge splotch that reached just south of the Bloodfields and spread out across the trade routes. Not all-encompassing, but Pallass ‘held’ a huge amount of territory.
“She held them alone. She got backup in the form of the Gecko and the Antinium, but that was her fight. Where would Pallass be if we didn’t have our Named-rank [Alchemist]? Even when I was a teenager, you were there.”
“Uh, don’t mention my age. I’m sensitive about that.”
She grinned, then studied the far wall.
“How many gangs have you taken apart when the Watch couldn’t? The Redknives, the Hands of Gold, Inktear…”
He felt a little shock as she mentioned the gang she used to be part of. He’d never told her…she brushed at her eyes.
“Imagine how many cells the Watch would have filled if it could even catch those gangs, Saliss. Then again, you tend to miss the small fries.”
He leaned on the desk, smiling out the window.
“Eh, too much paperwork. And I’m lazy.”
“Of course you are. We’ll do our best in your absence, Alchemist. And I’ll bear in mind what you said about your cousin.”
She turned, and he blinked at her. Then she threw him a salute. That was too much. Saliss threw up his hands.
“Now it sounds like you’re going to enlist me! Flee! I’ll bring you back some Wyverns! Alive! All kinds of new ones for you to have fun with!”
He fled down the stairs, but not before that damn Watch Captain shouted from her office.
“[Guards], salute!”
The whip-crack of the [Voice of Command] had every single damn [Guard] in 4th Floor’s Watch House on their feet and saluting the Drake as he strode past them. Their surprised gazes followed the Alchemist of Lights as he flipped two middle fingers up at the window.
“You win this one, Qissa! I’ll be back!”
He tried, oh, how he tried to make it silly and stupid. But she just cracked open the windows and called out.
“Inventions speed your journey, Alchemist Saliss!”
As if she respected him or something. In front of all these people? The Alchemist ran away, shaking his head. She was crazy.
His Watch Captain.
His city.
 
——
 
He hated goodbyes.
He didn’t know why he did them.
Saliss of Lights balanced another grape on Chaldion’s nose until a twitch made the little tower shift. The [Healer] was scolding him.
Not Demerra, just a [Healer] attending a Drake who no longer mattered. Same with his assistant and bodyguards…how they vanished.
Saliss caught the grapes and put them back on the plate. Apparently, the Drake could eat sometimes.
“Hey, old man. I’m off for the New Lands. Not got anything to say? Cat got your tongue?”
“Adventurer Saliss—please! Your grandfather—”
The [Healer] hesitated when Saliss glanced at her.
“We’ve done this for years, Miss Ulla. We can’t stop now. Though it does feel like bullying now that he can’t fight back. Still, you deserve it, old man, don’t you?”
Chaldion said not a word as Saliss nudged him, which took all the fun out of it. Saliss still remembered the bloody bandages on the Drake who should have been dead, healing for weeks, alive when he was begging to die…
He deserved far worse. So why couldn’t he look like the bastard who deserved it? Saliss gave up trying to get a word, a rise out of the grey Drake sitting in his wheelchair.
“I’m off. I hope you were wrong about Edellein. Time to find out if what’s in the New Lands is worth it.”
He thought that, if anything, would get Chaldion to look up. Seith, old man. The fortune that Chaldion had waited for, the decisive weapon that would break the Antinium Wars stalemate. Put Pallass back on the maps. Or Edellein, that popinjay, leading your city.
Nothing.
Nothing. Saliss wanted to shake Chaldion.
“Your city’s not doing so hot, old man. All your plans can’t deal with people being people. How’s it feel, hm? First me, then…how’s it feel? Hey, c’mon, answer. Answer—”
“Saliss, stop!”
Healer Ulla grabbed him, and the Named-rank Drake realized he’d been shaking Chaldion so hard the chair was rattling around. The gasping old Drake fell back in his chair as Saliss let go.
“You have to go. Now.”
It was amazing the [Healer] had even managed to halt him. She must have had—[Protect the Patient: Emergency Strength]. He read her class and Skills. Saliss turned away.
“I’m—I’m sorry. Here.”
He handed her a healing potion in case…the Drake walked towards the door.
“I’ll keep the army safe, old man. Even if I have to grow Edellein a brain first. Esor’s there too.”
Still nothing. The Drake took the doorknob to Chaldion’s study in hand, turned it, and walked out. He walked through the old sitting room filled with cigar smoke, the hallway of medals and curios from war, old weapons that Chaldion had used to be able to swing…
He was nearly at the doors to the mansion when he heard a whisper. A voice so low that only an [Alchemist]’s enhanced hearing could catch it.
A whisper forced out of lungs, soft as a falling leaf, but with all the effort of a man moving a boulder up a mountain. As if it took all the will in the world to find the words in the sea the mind was lost in.
“Luck, Saliss.”
The [Alchemist] stopped in the hallway. He heard a faint gasp. Waited a beat as his heart thundered—but nothing more came.
He did not turn back. Silently, the Drake’s hand made a fist and touched his chest, just over his heart. He thrust the fist skywards and let his aura speak for him for a moment.
Then he strode out the door.
Only a few left. Two, really. Just two more in this wide city who he needed to talk to.
 
——
 
It was on the way up to the 9th Floor again when Saliss finally caught his breath and his heart rate slowed to its normal beats-per-minute. Thirty-eight, if he was just walking or moving around.
That normally would have had a [Healer] coming for him, but Saliss’ body was…high-level. Everyone thought he was a [Battle Alchemist], but his specialty was transformations. Age, body…none were permanent, but you tended to improve what could be improved. That was the secret of high levels.
Anyone could be Level 40 or higher. Zeter was half of what he needed; he had his magical swords. But you had to be competitive even at your level. Keep improving and refining yourself.
Non-combat classes didn’t have galas-muscle, for instance, in most cases. But Saliss, and at least one other Level 50+ [Alchemist] did. Irurx, that bastard, got it. If you could give yourself that advantage, why not?
Those frantic thoughts and self-introspection helped. When he slowed, his elation faded. A few words would not reverse what was going on in Pallass. The Old Man was still out. And that left Saliss…that left Turnscales in Pallass in a bad place.
Saliss’ head bowed low, and the black feeling swept him. It had been easier a few months ago. Things had been, if not positive, then better.
The hard part had been when Chaldion left the command post. Having all of his progress reverted under General Edellein, who wanted to renegotiate the contract. One step forwards and an avalanche backwards.
He’d pushed to reverse the problems. Telling Qissa he was making a stand. Having Rose, annoying as she was, on the side. Thinking of the future…but sometimes he was just exhausted.
Why the hell did he do it? Someone had to. But dead gods, he was tired of seeing progress reverse. Only a few things made him happy, really happy. The inn had been fun. But Erin had fallen into the same traps. Enemies, fighting battles against people she wasn’t ready for. A good woman in a shit world.
He believed in her, would support her, loved her in the way he could never love his reflection. But he could not be happy around her as often anymore.
He was only happy, perfectly happy, about one thing in this world without some kind of regret, insecurity, or worry.
And that was, unexpectedly, his cute little apprentice. Saliss hummed as he skipped up the steps to his workshop. Of all the things, he’d miss her most in a way.
 
——
 
Octavia was sitting in Saliss’ workshop, staring at the neat rows of pre-measured powders and liquids she was about to combine. That was how Saliss did it. If you knew the recipe, all the ingredients were there and sorted, ready to go. No forgetting to measure out mandrake root and having to grind it while keeping your mixture from bubbling over.
The Stitch-girl had taken to his system well, and at a glance, he could tell she was making a Potion of Fire Blast, one of the common go-to potions in his arsenal. He had her making a lot of the things he wanted these days. Replenishing his stores. She got time to pursue her own projects, but an apprentice got gruntwork. In return, he mentored her, gave her tips, let her use his workshop if not his best ingredients, and when she was ready, she’d start her own practice.
That Octavia had been independent before meeting Saliss was just a quirk of their relationship, but she didn’t seem to be jumping to leave. Well, then again…when he coughed, she jumped.
“Master Saliss, I was just, um—”
She began making the Potion of Blast hurriedly, and Saliss leaned on the counter. He had a kind grin on his face. He didn’t scold her or hit her for not working, and in that, he was unlike any master she’d ever had.
He was always kind. It made her feel guilty.
“Zoning out? Better doing that before you start mixing. I’m heading out.”
“To the New Lands? Already? Are you packed?”
Her eyes widened, and she looked Saliss up and down; he was naked except for his belt, but the Drake just patted his bag of holding.
“Amazing things, bags of holding. They fit everything. It’s almost like you can put anything you want in there…”
He was teasing her. But gently. Octavia bounced on her toes, missing the joke completely.
“I’m, uh, I’ll be working hard, Master Saliss! I promise. If I need to, I’ll just send a Courier with a delivery of anything you need restocked, and you’ll write back to me? Only Couriers on the list…”
She fumbled for his instructions, and Saliss forestalled her with a wave of the claw.
“You know what to do. I was just saying goodbye, Octavia. You hanging in there?”
“Me? Yes, of course! Everything’s great! I levelled again last month and…why?”
For a Cotton Stitch-girl working for Pallass’ best [Alchemist], Octavia seemed distracted. Saliss, as an old Drake, knew why. He’d…been her. He sat on the workbench and didn’t actually know what to say.
He wasn’t the type of person who gave this kind of pep talk. Saliss was a jokester. He got along with people like Erin, who were like him. He aggravated idiots, and some people respected him despite his best efforts, but he didn’t…mentor. Yet he had to, right? Damn, this is why he never took apprentices. Saliss cleared his throat.
“Listen, kid. You and I both know Numbtongue’s been weird. I blame his class. Actually, I blame sex. There’s such a thing as too much of it.”
She colored.
“I…we’re not seeing each other.”
“Sure, sure. But that’s not much fun either, is it? Here’s my advice: you’re not going to stop thinking about it, and it’s not going to stop smarting. So just don’t do alchemy. Take a break; unless I’m screaming at you that I’m out of Blast Potions and up to my earholes in Crelers, it’s fine. Go hug that cat. Be a person in The Wandering Inn. Even if you run into our Goblin friend. You can’t out-alchemy a hurt heart. Believe me, people have tried.”
He avoided looking straight at her, smiling past Octavia. He didn’t want to see if this was working or not; she was silent. Saliss chanced a glance at her eyes and then away.
Ah, poor kid. Saliss coughed into one fist.
“…By ‘people’, I mean Alchemist Irurx. Among others. Worst case of someone going Mad Alchemist I’ve ever seen. If you snap like that, next thing you know you’ll be biogrowing gigantic bugs and sailing a ship at people.”
That made Octavia laugh and shudder. She ducked her head.
“I think the case was more complex than that, Master Saliss. He was burned at the stake.”
“Oh, sure, but I bet you there was a love component to that too. Did you hear about Ceria’s date with him?”
“Ceria did mention that…”
Saliss nodded wisely.
“The man hates half-Elves, led an entire [Pirate] armada just to kill more of them, and the first half-Elf he meets, he tries to lick her toes and show her what he’s got belowdecks. That’s telling. Even [Alchemists] can’t beat love and heartsickness, Octavia. Look at old Xif. Time was, he’d get his heart broken and then lock himself in his laboratory working on a ‘Potion of Love’. I can’t tell you how many times that happened.”
She giggled, scandalized by the thought of Xif doing that. Then she peered at him.
“And you, Master Saliss?”
Oh, this is why I hate having people who get to know me. Saliss’ face froze, and his mind flashed to the many, many mistakes of his…Onieva’s life. Ah, it stung. It hurt. Instantly, Saliss began to lie, to deflect. But his honest apprentice was looking at him. Expectantly, as if his words mattered or something.
The stiff smile on his face relaxed. Saliss, to his amazement, didn’t tell a joke. He just gave Octavia a shrug of the shoulders.
“More times than I can count. I’ve been an idiot, Octavia. I’ll tell you about it sometime, but it’s bad. Embarrassingly horrendous. You’ll never look at me the same again. And you’ve gotten used to me being naked!”
“I would never, Master Saliss.”
She assured him, and he almost believed her, but Saliss wondered what Octavia would say about Onieva. She was a Stitch-woman; they tended to understand. But even then…he winked.
“Someday, maybe. For now, I’ve got to go.”
He could have left it at that, but he hesitated. Then ruffled her dreadlocks.
“I’ll miss you, kid. You keep levelling, you hear? And take breaks to work on your own stuff. You’re like the purest experiment I have. Some goofy little Stitch-girl without anyone tainting her recipe with shit. That’s a fun experiment.”
It was…everything. He’d said too much. Octavia gazed up at him like a puppy, but a knowing one. Her eyes filled with all those questions he couldn’t answer because they were too painful. Then she got misty-eyed.
“Master Saliss, you did all this for me and I—! You’re going to be okay, aren’t you?”
She wanted to hug him. With a sigh, Saliss let her do it. He patted her head.
“I’ll be fine. I just had to say goodbye to a few people. The old man even managed to croak at me.”
“He did? Who’re you saying goodbye to?”
“Oh, you know. All my friends. Xif, Qissa, the Old Man, you…and maybe Mirn.”
Five people. How had he gotten so many? Saliss waggled his clawed hand, and Octavia gazed up at him as she let go.
“What about—no, Erin’s gone and—anyone in the inn? What about, um, other [Alchemists] or…?”
The innocent question stung a bit. Saliss turned.
“Nope! No one else.”
He thought of someone. But he, Saliss, couldn’t say goodbye to…that Gnoll. But surely—
A fear overtook him, then. It would be a long trip. He’d be worried, but the truth might have to come out. Otherwise, how else did you explain both Saliss and Onieva vanishing?
The truth.
Oh. It felt like Octavia’s potion was about to explode. Not literally, just a sudden sense the [Alchemist] had of a failed experiment, only that was his life and every relationship he’d ever had.
Octavia noticed the tensing up and fumbled for words.
“I didn’t mean—I was only asking—”
“No, you’re fine, kid. I told you, you and I just have to love alchemy. This is just me reflecting upon all my mistakes. Yeah, there is someone else. Seven. Two hand’s worth of people.”
Saliss raised a sixth finger and stared at it. Octavia gazed at him, and he hugged her, one-armed.
“Don’t look at me like that. Larracel the Haven, that desperately sad woman who’s shielded her friends with her body from everything—she can’t do more than two hand’s worth of true friends. And she’s devoted most of her life to keeping them alive. That’s who we are. You…you’re my experiment.”
Maybe, if you raised a young apprentice with nothing but respect and taught them without any burdens, they’d be a great [Alchemist]. Part of him didn’t believe his experiment. Suffering made you level, and his masters had been geniuses at levelling him by that standard.
But he treasured the smile. She hugged him again, and the [Alchemist] sighed. He stared at the sixth finger he’d raised, then went to find his fifth friend.
 
——
 
Mirn was Saliss’ oldest friend. His truest friend of any of them. The only one in Pallass who could truly claim that name. He had known Saliss longer than anyone but Chaldion. He was the only one who knew Saliss’ secret and supported his friend unconditionally.
He was the greatest ally, [Protector], and friend that Saliss could ask for.
He saw that sixth digit trembling, and that scared Mirn, because he so seldom saw Onieva shaking. So the failed bartender put down the mugs he was cleaning for tonight and leaned over the new bar he’d rented for Turnscales and snapped.
“Don’t tell him squat. Just let him know you’re going, leave it at a quick kiss, and come back to it when you return.”
Mirn wasn’t for telling Ishkr. He had that furrowed-brow look when he was worried about Onieva, but she wore that blissful smile of someone pouring salamander scales into the solution on purpose.
(Salamander scales and hope they exploded. She was all self-sabotaging.)
“I’ve got to, Mirn.”
He pulled her neck-spines as she tried to leave, the only person in Pallass who could or would dare to do it.
“No…you’re stabbing yourself in the tail, and you know it, you stupid hatchling. You like him.”
She grew defensive instantly.
“Sure. Why? He’s high-level, so he doesn’t break; he’s talented; he’s from The Wandering Inn—I’m messing with him.”
“Messing with him. By doing what, obsessively jumping into his pants every time you meet? He’s not violent, insane, against Turnscales, or anything else, is he?”
Mirn wore an expression saying that if any of the above were actually true, Ishkr would be soon dealing with broken kneecaps, but Onieva defended him.
“No! He’s fine. You’ve met him! We know about his sister! I’m just lying to him about—me. Saliss.”
She indicated her body, violet scales gleaming, her mismatched eyes shining, so beautiful and eyecatching that other Turnscales stared at Onieva. No one knew who she was, not exactly, but she was a known figure in Pallass. Perfect. The soul in your heart made manifest. If only she could last…Mirn tore his eyes away from her.
Dead gods, she hurt his heart. They’d been friends for almost four decades, ever since Mirn was a street kid who wanted to be a [Soldier] and the as yet unformed Onieva had been a shy, bookish [Prodigy Junior Tactician], the grandchild of Chaldion who needed a friend. How far they’d come.
“You’re not lying about anything. You’re Onieva.”
“A Turnscale. Saliss in disguise.”
“That’s not even something worth bringing up!”
Mirn slammed a fist down. He was so angry at Onieva. After meeting Rose, after all this talk and all they’d seen, she carried the guilt of who she was.
All he felt was rage—for anyone that couldn’t accept the honest truth. There was no guilt to be had. Not for Mirn. He didn’t accept that kind of talk at his bar anymore. Not even the old debates—whether this could be mitigated, whether they all needed help or if there were ‘acceptable’ ways they could be Turnscales.
No more. Rose had cemented the truth he had come to over a lifetime of acting as a Sentry in the Turnscale community in Pallass. What they were wasn’t wrong. It wasn’t even new.
Nor was the world wrong, even. Just this corner of it. Just this particular time they were living through. And it would change. He had to believe that.
They stood, Onieva and Mirn, in the most comfortable place in Pallass. Mirn’s bar. The location changed, and the drinks were terrible. So was the food, mostly, but to the young and old who came here, it was the most comfortable place they knew. More than even their own homes.
Not safe. If someone asked the wrong questions, if there was a pounding at the doors, then you’d feel that adrenaline-fueled terror in your veins. But this was a comfortable place, despite it all.
Because here, you were yourself. No one would judge you or lie and tell you that you were wrong, deviant, sick. And Mirn…Mirn was there. He’d rather die than let you get hurt in his presence.
Onieva would miss this place most of all, Mirn knew. How would she live as Saliss for months, possibly, on campaign?
She’d survived worse, but even if she could become Onieva for a while, she’d have no one to talk to. He wanted to tell her not to go, but he’d lost that argument long ago. Pallass needed its Named-rank adventurer.
This was an argument he had a shot at, so the [Protector] furiously stacked mugs on a tray as Onieva gave him that worrying smile.
Honesty. She framed telling Ishkr as honesty, something she had to do. As if their entire relationship were based on a lie.
Mirn had met Ishkr. The Gnoll lad was cute. Handsome when he dressed up, young, high-level. So respectable compared to Mirn and Onieva that it hurt, like a bright statue that had yet to tarnish. Oh, and he got high-level people. He was competent; he’d been Erin Solstice’s best employee and had stuck around through disasters. Small wonder he’d swept Onieva off her feet.
She was a sucker for anyone who polished up like that. Mirn had always thought that if Qissa had been a handsome male Drake, Onieva might have gotten to chatting with him, and what a disaster that might have been. Ishkr, as far as Mirn could tell, was a genuinely good [Head Server]. He hadn’t seen the real shit that Mirn had, let alone Onieva. War, sure. Monsters, of course.
Heartbreaking shit—the kind you couldn’t solve with a sword—that was what he hadn’t experienced. Not yet, even with all his dead [Innkeepers] and children. But he seemed like he actually had a good heart. So he might be as rare as a Dragon.
So what?
Onieva was as rare as a Unicorn. She didn’t need to tell Ishkr, but she wanted to. Because she hated herself.
To be clear—Mirn had a bunch of terminology from Rose about this and that, all words from her world, but he hadn’t needed more than the vocabulary. Onieva was a bit of a puzzle that Rose admitted she couldn’t quite understand at a glance because of the powers of alchemy. This was how Mirn understood it.
Saliss and Onieva were the same person. The Faerie Flower potions had made them two different people—for a while. But it had always been the same person, just with memory loss.
The problem was that Saliss wanted Onieva to be separate. He had constructed his persona of Saliss of Lights, the annoying naked Drake, the Named-adventurer who did hard things for Pallass, deliberately. He’d sheltered Onieva from all the things he did. He treated her like a separate entity, the Drake he wished he could be at all times.
Saliss hated Saliss. But Onieva was Saliss. So when Saliss was Saliss, he was all-business, only the Named-rank. He seldom met with Mirn out of caution, because the two were only supposed to be distant friends.
However, when Onieva was Onieva, she didn’t stop disliking Saliss. She’d be the first to say that Saliss was needed, but it was like a weight around her neck. She seemed to view Saliss’ existence like a scar, a mark of shame. The fact that she’d eventually have to become Saliss was a sin she kept from her lovers and friends.
Now, Mirn thought all of this was wrongheaded. Onieva/Saliss, whichever form they wore, were heroes. They’d fought the Antinium Wars, fought Drakes, fought monsters, fought for everything Pallass had. Ancestors, Onieva had fought the Goblin King twice. Who the hell could claim that?
How could you be ashamed of…? Mirn had to stop polishing another tankard before he cracked it.
“Dragonshit, Onieva. That’s all this is. Self-sabotaging Dragonshit. Ishkr is lucky to be able to lick your toe-claws.”
“He hasn’t done that.”
She tried to make a joke of it, and Mirn slapped the counter with a dustrag.
“You’re beautiful. You’re the highest-levelled Drake in all of Pallass. You’re too good for him!”
“I’m way too old for him.”
She was trying to call her age into the argument, and Mirn pointed a finger-claw at her.
“I know for a fact you’ve probably got a thirty-year old body. Don’t even play that card, girl. Besides, in our community age gaps like that are normal.”
A function of not having that many people who could meet each other. Onieva brushed at her cheeks.
“Even if it’s—artificial?”
What, her appearance? This time, Mirn nearly tossed the mug at her. Because she had to know how stupid an argument that was. It came purely from insecurity, not reality.
He was so jealous of her, he had to admit. Mirn was a bit younger than Onieva, and sometimes he wished she could make those Potions of Youth for him. Just for a bit. Mirn looked good because he was over Level 40 and kept in shape, but…Ancestors.
Ancestors witness. Their many times great-granddaughter had continued their work. Her scales captured the light, which played over her form forged out of alchemy’s genius. The odor of dried berries clung to her with that faint metallic tang, which only intensified when she was sweating or exerting herself.
Beneath the layers of scales and flesh moved the same muscles that Dragons shared. Her lungs contained the same tempest, a Dragonfire so unique that only sixteen other beings had ever breathed the same. Something new.
If they could have seen her, in their days of old, she would have been a child the Dragons would have flown around. Someone new, who had drawn her body out of base components and paved a way forwards. They should have celebrated her. Hailed her and carried her on their shoulders, begging her to lead them forwards.
Just for this. Mirn turned his head away, unable to articulate what he saw, sometimes. He rubbed at his eyes. Then spoke huskily.
“There’s no reason to tell him about your switching forms. None. The only reason is in your head. You’re not lying to anyone. You’re just temporarily wrongformed until you can brew the right potion. Like someone who has uncontrollable sneezing.”
The way he described her problems made her smile, but guiltily.
“It’s not that and you know it. Saliss is an entirely different person. He has baggage and problems, and it’s a lie, Mirn. If he’d known he was sleeping with Saliss—”
She shuddered, and Mirn got angry again.
“There’s nothing wrong with Saliss.”
“Pft. You can’t even say that with a straight face.”
Onieva turned, annoyed, and was caught flat-footed by Mirn’s glower. She was shocked, and he capitalized on that.
“You know something, Onieva? Remember when you were drinking the Faerie Flower potion and couldn’t remember you were Saliss?”
She flinched, and he felt bad, because that miraculous, easy-to-brew potion had been hope. Not just for her, but other Turnscales. Now it was gone, and he understood why she was so damn unhappy.
He was unhappy. Turnscale raids had tripled for a while under Edellein. They’d come back down, but Mirn was thinking of paying for a door guard…it reminded him of the bad old days. Raids every night. All Onieva had worked for was reversing without Chaldion.
Nevermind that. Rose and I can work on Pallass. I’d better not tell Onieva about Rose’s infiltration mission or she’ll probably pull Rose’s tail off. Mirn went on.
“Do you remember what Fae-Onieva said?”
“Vaguely. It was just the happiest time of my entire life. Why?”
Wow. Okay. Mirn went on, determined not to engage with that.
“I recall she was worried about her ‘Cousin Saliss’. You went on and on about how much he worked and how much of a loner he was.”
“Well, it makes sense. Saliss does suck.”
Onieva sipped from a mug she’d filled with water, self-consciously grinning. Mirn sprang the trap. She could dodge any trap in the world but a verbal one.
“Ah, but Fae-Onieva didn’t hate Saliss. You liked him. You thought he was overworked, had as shitty a relationship with Chaldion as you do—but you thought of him as Pallass’ protector. Just like you saw yourself. When you take your own preconceptions out of your head, you like Saliss, and there’s nothing to be ashamed of.”
That caught her off-guard. He saw the [Alchemist] waver, and her heterochromic eyes flickered as she tried to figure a way out of his argument. Heterochromia. One eye blue, the other yellow. Of all the things that Onieva had chosen for her true self, that made him think she was still just a girl at heart. Mixed-color eyes. Ancestors, he was so jealous.
But a shallow jealousy. In a perfect world, Mirn would find someone to love and settle down with. Keep running his bar, but without the fear, and just…relax. Raise some kids, if he wasn’t too old to start. All he wanted was to be a bit younger, a bit better-looking, and to have a bit more spending gold. Oh, and for Turnscales not to have to fear for their existence.
He was happy with himself. She was not, but Onieva denied it once more.
“Aha! That might have been true, but that was only because I didn’t know that I was actually Saliss. If I, as Fae-Onieva, had realized all of the dirt on Saliss’ claws was my own, then I’d be ashamed. It’s one thing to admire a bastard who’s doing what he has to. Another to be that bastard. It’d be like if I found out I transformed back into Chaldion.”
You cunning bitch. Also, was that how she saw herself? Saliss was like Chaldion for sins? Mirn threw his rag at her, and she dodged. He pulled at his cheeks. Despairing.
So confusing. So complex. The alchemy didn’t make things better, it just made it more confusing. Mirn spoke into his hands.
“Walled Cities break. Okay, fine. I know you’re on a time limit and you have a date with him. So lay it out for me like an alchemy recipe. Possible outcomes. Best case solution? He accepts you, everything’s great. Worst case? You’re going to tell him, and he blows up or rejects you. That’s why you’re doing it now, so you can cry your heart out, then run off to fight and get hurt in the New Lands. So you don’t have to face the outcomes. Because you expect it to go bad.”
“That’s not true.”
Her innocent expression was exactly like Saliss’, but she was avoiding his gaze. Mirn folded his arms.
“So you didn’t tell him until you knew you were shipping out tomorrow because…? If things go well, you’d want to spend more time together. There’s no good reason to put it off till now. An explanation serves no reason now, except if it’s going to go bad, so you can run away.”
She avoided his gaze.
“I’ve been sleeping with him for months now. He deserves to know. If he wants to spit in my face—”
For a second, she was fragile, not invincible, and Mirn bit his tongue. The [Protector] thought that if Ishkr did that, it wouldn’t break Onieva. She’d fought armies and lived. But it would make her bleed.
One more time, again and again and ever again, she was putting her heart out there. This time, Mirn wanted someone to not kick it off the walls. If he could get to Ishkr first, maybe, see how the Gnoll would react…
As if she read his mind, the [Alchemist] turned to Mirn and smiled.
“If you tell Ishkr ahead of time and try to ‘brief’ him, I’ll blow up your bar, Mirn. Then you can see what it’s like being Mirna.”
“Pass.”
Only Onieva could threaten to change your body—a threat that was only annoying for Mirn, but would probably have most Drakes shitting themselves in terror. Mirn could only watch as Onieva smiled in that way she did before planning on detonating a pile of potions.
He couldn’t stop her, he realized. He never could. He wasn’t strong enough. So the [Protector] came around the bar and just hugged her. He clung to her, and she laughed.
“Mirn, you can’t keep me here. I do have a date.”
Her eyes shone with a fire like Erin Solstice’s, but it had no color Mirn could name. A deep pain and beautiful, transcendent light. If she could have brought it to life like the [Innkeeper], he could have burned down Pallass with it.
“You idiot. I’m hugging my friend. Come back from the New Lands. And come back here. They love you, this community. If you could be here more…”
They looked up to him, old Mirn, as their hero. They should know she was their heroine. Not him. Onieva never told anyone who she was, let alone their level. The Turnscales of Pallass—the Turnscales of every city should claim her and love her like he did. Just like Zel Shivertail. Or Sserys.
Why are all our heroes dead and we only find out who they were afterwards? If we could only count ourselves and see how many of us are amazing and beautiful…
Mirn clung to that idea. He had to keep building, more than this bar. He had to expand it and, with Rose’s help, make a place that would last, that no one would break into. The Turnscales were weakest when they were scattered, hidden in each city.
Light, that terrifying thing, would save or damn them. They feared it—but they were no insects to wilt under the sun. They were all beautiful blooms, and they had been hidden in the dark too long.
Onieva’s eyes softened, and she hugged Mirn with a fraction of that terrible strength. He felt her trembling and thought this date scared her more than the Goblin King in some ways.
“Dragons guide you, Onieva.”
“I’ve followed them. If only they’d accept me. No…”
Her eyes brightened with unshed tears.
“One did.”
So she turned. [Alchemiaform Oldblood, Grand Alchemist of War]. A class only Mirn knew. Even Chaldion knew only the second half. But that first part…
The Drake who had changed her very species, who had not been born an Oldblood, turned and walked out of his doors. Taking huge breaths, like a girl going on her first date. Mirn watched, waving.
If Ishkr broke her heart, Mirn was going to break his knees tomorrow.
 
——
 
That was how Onieva said her goodbyes.
Before she tried to tell Ishkr, of course. And a certain skeleton interrupted them. All things considered, beating down a stranger in Relic-class armor was infinitely preferable to the truth.
Onieva blinked as the strange [Knight] who’d tried to go after Ishkr ran for it.
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know. Someone from Erribathe? Another Terandrian kingdom? Maybe, uh…what’s the name of that one with the highest-level [Knights]? Kaaz?”
“Can’t be. The Thousand Lances all have sigils on their armor, and they shout really loud who they are. Plus, he’d be higher-level if he was one of them abroad. That idiot wasn’t bad, but he was all Relics.”
She could have taken him apart if she wanted to get serious; it might have been nice loot. Arguably, she should have to mitigate a potential threat to the inn. However, Onieva was distracted. She put her claws on Ishkr’s shoulders, trying to be casual.
“So…where were we? Hot date? Want to visit a fun attraction or—or something?”
He frowned at her.
“You’re shaking. Are you okay? Did he hurt you?”
That was her line. Onieva’s arms sprang off Ishkr.
“Me? Great. Absolutely! Finger guns and stuff!”
Ancestors, stop talking like Saliss! She tried to make a joke of things, but she felt her stomach tying itself into knots.
“Why—why don’t we head back to the inn, huh? Maybe we could get cozy and uh—uh—talk?”
She wanted nothing more than to get back to the inn, kiss and cuddle, or do something more intimate. Anything so he’d like her and not…this.
“I wouldn’t mind that. Um, but if you’re really leaving tomorrow—I could help you pack. Where are you going? Is it related to Saliss leaving for the New Lands? Lyonette was talking about making a care package. Just food. Do you know what he’d like?”
“Funny you should mention that…how about we go back, talk, and it’ll all be clear.”
She was going to vomit. Handily, Liscor had installed a few public trashcans…that opened up directly into the sewers. That meant the rains didn’t fill them up. Onieva excused herself as Ishkr went to talk to the [Guards] about the incident. She wiped her mouth after puking and locked eyes with an Antinium.
“Are you alright, Miss Drake? This one will call for a [Healer]—”
He began, and she held up a hand to stop the worried Worker.
“Hey. Don’t mind me. Just nerves.”
“One pukes when nervous?”
“All the time. Mammal thing.”
The horrified Worker watched as Onieva gargled a breath tonic, then dashed back over to Ishkr. He was giving her worried looks.
“Onieva, you seem fr—did you just throw up?”
Damn Gnolls and their noses! She laughed it off.
“I must have eaten something bad for breakfast. C’mon! Let’s go to the inn!”
By pushing and shoving and cajoling, she got him back to The Wandering Inn. A few of the staff waved at Onieva, and Asgra whistled at the couple, but they were largely ignored. Onieva was just one of those faces around the inn, not someone to pay attention to. Someone hollered as Onieva pushed Ishkr upstairs. Her heart was racing. It had gone from thirty-eight beats-per-minute to about…two hundred. So she was only slightly panicked—she’d once hit three hundred in the middle of combat.
“Ishkr, you back from your date? Nanette doing something weird in the gardens with her magic stone stuff.”
She hustled him up to her rooms as Ishkr called out.
“I won’t be working, Peggy. Whatever Nanette is doing—just do your best! I’m, um, on break.”
He gestured at Onieva, who waved at the Hob, and Peggy whistled.
“Ooh, fun times! You is have fun! Use lots of lubrication! Calescent kitchen has lots of free oil!”
The [Chef] stuck his head out of the kitchen with a mix of outrage and horror. Elia Arcsinger nearly spat out her spicy salad. Onieva wanted to laugh or hug Peggy. Strange how she could remember killing so many Goblins but she was so grateful for this supportive Hob.
Tell her who you are and watch how she treats you. Antinium too. She didn’t deserve a Worker’s sympathy. She’d killed so many of them. So many Goblins. So many Gnolls and Drakes and…
Blood. Enough blood to fill this inn was on her hands. How would Ishkr ever embrace or kiss her once he knew…
Be done with it. Ishkr was glancing back at her.
“Onieva is something…?”
She shoved him into his rooms and realized she was visibly shaking now. It took her two tries to lock the doors. Ishkr was worried.
“I think you’ve been poisoned or something’s wrong. Onieva, you’re shaking!”
“Just excitement, Ishkr. Take a seat on the bed. I’ve got a fun thing to tell you. Exciting.”
She gave him a glassy smile. He sat on the bed, and she admired his window for a second. Unlatched it with her back covering it. She’d bail out the window; simplest exit path. If he started hitting her, she could take two swings and be out of it and get to the door in seconds.
Not that she was self-sabotaging. Mirn was just blowing smoke. Just anticipating things based on prior encounters.
“Is it about where you’re going? Saliss?”
Damnit, he was too perceptive. Onieva turned and found a chair and placed it to face him.
“Yes and yes. In a way. It’s…a story. You love stories, don’t you?”
The [Wandering Server of Stories] stirred, because that was his entire thing.
“A bit, but, if you’re unw—”
“Ishkr, please. Just let me tell the story, and it’ll all be clear. You’ll love it. Well, everything but the ending.”
She began to speak as he sat there, alert, worried, but drawn by her words. She almost stopped several times and gave up, would have thrown herself at him and kissed him to distract him or pretend everything was fine.
But she wasn’t. She couldn’t lie to him any longer. So she told him a story.
Not the same one she’d told other lovers. She’d done this many times, and just once…Onieva repeated the same formula she’d tried, an alchemist’s sorry recipe, with a new twist. Waiting to see how it blew up in her face this time.
There was that story that Saliss or Onieva never told. It explained a lot of things. Saliss’ relationship with General Shirka. Who he was. Who she was.
This was the story.
 
——
 
He was Level 36, a [Battle Alchemist of Transformations], and the 1st Antinium Wars were raging. General Sserys had yet to appear and rally all of Izril and begin to push the Black Tide back.
This was the bad times—well, it had been bad throughout the entire damn war—when the Antinium had seemed to be everywhere. When any area past their front lines moving south around Oteslia or through the Dragonspine Mountains might be attacked.
No one knew which settlements were holding their ground or were razed with no survivors. Someone had to check, to run messages from place to place.
A heroine was doing just that: Mihaela Godfrey. In these dark times, the woman who would be known as the Courier of Izril ran lifelines across Izril nonstop. She was the network of [Messages] and deliveries of food and confidential information between Drake settlements. She and so many brave Runners who died, hunted down by the Antinium forces.
But there had been other operatives active during that period. Adventurers. Special agents sent to check on ‘dark’ settlements and either liberate them or just assess the situation. One such operative was Saliss.
Saliss, the Gold-rank Adventurer, was fresh off the boat from Nerrhavia’s Fallen where he’d spent over a decade apprenticing to masters of alchemy there.
This mission was a hard one. A village near the place that would become the Hivelands was no longer responding to [Messages]. Someone had to find out if they were all dead. [Scrying] spells weren’t working; that blue Antinium was blocking them in the entire damn region.
It was a dangerous mission that had cost two Gold-rankers their lives already. Chaldion had wanted to forbid Saliss from going, but he’d told the Grand Strategist that someone had to do the job, and the old man hadn’t stopped him. He understood how bad things were.
He’d told Saliss to find the [Village Head]’s reports; they might have information on what the Antinium were doing from their relatively high position in the hills. If they could find a Hive’s location…
That was the time and scene.
You don’t need to know the details about the village. Not that the melted houses of pale brick and stucco had twisted until they resembled screaming faces, fallen doors revealing black openings from which a miasma spread, filling the village.
Nor the bodies—the broken rubble and bodies, killed by the toxins. Or the lone Drake wearing a mask over his face, vials in hand, leaping from shadow to shadow, eyes on the sky.
Wrymvr the Deathless flew, shrieking, hunting for the Gold-rank team that had been moving with Saliss. What no one knew at the time was that this was almost on the doorstep of what would become the Twisted Hive. Hence the Deathless’ vigilance.
The very same report that the Drakes and Gnolls were dying for would later pinpoint the Twisted Queen’s location. Bombardment spells wouldn’t kill her, but they’d do more damage to an Antinium Queen than at any other point in the war till they drowned a Hive with water spells.
So this moment mattered in the strategic sense of the war. But the dead Drakes who’d been living here wouldn’t know that.
The people didn’t deserve this. Not Antinium scavenging their remains, stripping the village for supplies, the toxins that Wrymvr had unleashed—any of it.
The [Alchemist] was afraid, hiding, trying to escape the Centenium hunting him. He was no hero. He just wanted to live. He was, in fact, lifting up a cellar door to try to hide in a basement until Wrymvr stopped pursuing him when someone spoke in a sing-song voice.
“Not there. He left poison down there. Everyone who went down died.”
The [Alchemist] sprang back just in time from the near-odorless, invisible acid cloud that the Centenium had sprayed into the cellar. He saw melted flesh oozing from the dim stones below before he whirled.
There he saw the Drake girl, kicking her legs as she sat on a broken 2nd floor of a house. She was thin. And like him, she had a mask over her face. Cloth—not a Jar of Air like he was using. He had to take it off to speak.
“Who are you?”
“No one. Hello, Mister Adventurer. The bad bug is coming.”
Wrymvr screamed again, and Saliss peered up, flinching. The damn thing was honing on their position, and the Twisted Antinium were all around them. If Saliss fought one, Wrymvr would know.
I have to run. This girl…he thought she was a ghost at first. She was smiling, so relaxed he didn’t realize how her eyes had locked on him. How badly she was burned from acid and the clouds.
“You should run, Mister Adventurer.”
“How did you survive?”
“I hid. Over there.”
She pointed vaguely, and Saliss turned to see a small fortress of scavenged bedding and what he took to be supplies. The older Drake hesitated.
She’s a witness. I should get her out of here.
I’ll never make it. Not carrying a child. Not against that.
Level 36 [Alchemist] versus a Centenium who could resist every potion, with the battle experience of thousands of years and Rhir, against him. The [Alchemist] was a good adventurer. He’d made a living in Nerrhavia’s Fallen as one. But if he—
This situation is untenable. Your own chances of survival are marginal. You WILL withdraw, now!
The voice in his head was the pure, logical analysis from Chaldion. Saliss’ head snapped up. He knew it was correct. Kill your heart and retreat, that’s an order. He avoided the girl’s gaze. Did what was best for Drakes. His voice wobbled as he shook his head. Listen to his grandfather.
“I’m sorry, kid. I’ve got to get this information back to High Command. Stay hidden. I’ll lure him away.”
He whirled—then turned and fumbled. Tossed a few healing potions and his rations down. The girl beamed at him and exposed melting teeth.
“Good luck, Mister Adventurer! Tell High Command to kill that monster, please?”
Please? That one last word was all the true emotions she was hiding behind shock, fear, and trauma. Saliss recognized that. He half-turned…but death was coming.
He had to run. He had to run, even if it meant doing the unthinkable. He was an adventurer. He couldn’t die before he…she…had even lived.
So Saliss was running, leaping towards the village entrance, invisible, using a Potion of Speed, when he heard a voice sing-songing at his back.
“Goodbye! Goodbye forever, Mister Alchemist!”
Goodbye forever. Children were so good about not lying. The [Alchemist] turned, and Wrymvr must have heard the faint voice, because he was screaming now, diving.
The Drake girl waved both arms, beaming at him, sending him on his way with all the grudges and regrets of her village. Staring up at the falling Antinium. Then she did something he’d never forget.
The little girl sat down, tucked her knees to her chest, and covered her eyes with her claws. As if she were pretending the shrieking terror didn’t exist. If she just pretended hard enough, it would go away. Or she wouldn’t see it before the end.
So the Drake came to a halt in the ruined street.
He was no true heir of the Cyclops. He couldn’t kill his heart. He spoke.
“Ancestors damn it—”
Saliss drew two glowing vials from his belt and shouted a challenge up at the Centenium, who adjusted its course and spotted him. He drank the first potion, which had no effect except to let her appear.
The Centenium hesitated, surprised, as Onieva appeared. Then Onieva threw the other potion, and an explosion made the little girl covering her eyes jerk.
“M-mister adventurer?”
She didn’t hear a reply. Just another shriek and then a deafening bang. Sure she was about to die, waiting, the girl sat there, rocking back and forth, flinching as the screaming roar filled the air.
Thunder around her.
An [Alchemist]’s war with Wrymvr the Deathless. She never saw who fought the Deathless to a stalemate long enough to pluck her from the rubble and carry her away. Shirka had passed out as the shockwaves of the fighting collapsed the house she sat in. And when the Drake reappeared, it was as Saliss again.
Sixteen minutes. That was as long as the potion lasted. And three minutes longer than his supply of potions had lasted. The wheezing [Alchemist] had burst a lung. He was staggering, wounded, and acid ate at his scales as he picked up the girl from a side not coated in venom or acid.
The [Alchemist] ran. He couldn’t kill that Centenium; he could hear the stones grinding, and the deafening scream was slightly muffled—he’d collapsed the entire hillside on the Centenium, and it was digging its way out.
So, Saliss of Lights just grabbed the girl and ran. Ran as the skies turned black and the Deathless pursued him.
That day, Saliss of Lights the Gold-rank Adventurer hit Level 40. Four levels, and he escaped the damned village with a Drake child in his arms, who he remanded to Pallass’ care. She was sent to an orphanage. And he…would later become Saliss of Lights, the Named-rank of Pallass.
It was the greatest levelling moment of any Drake since Zel Shivertail had fought in his besieged city. Four Levels at Level 36. A hero’s tale—but he never told it. It was why a Drake [General] of Pallass would do anything for her hero, and he had so many tales like that, all untold. He had only ever told two people the tale until today: Mirn, and Erin. And not even the [Innkeeper] had heard the full tale.
But that story, if you heard it—it explained who they were. The Alchemist of Lights who was no noble hero. Just a Drake who would turn, a vial of glowing magic in hand, and face down a monster for shame.
Whose greatest trick, whose ultimate weapon, was a face no one would ever see. Was allowed to see. Her strongest battleform, her true self. An Oldblood Drake breathing alchemical fire.
Onieva.
 
——
 
Wow, what a wobbly voice. It probably took something away from the tale. And the hook, the important part was buried in the genuinely important historical context of…
It didn’t matter. Unless you were a fool, you got it.
Saliss and Onieva were the same person.
Onieva was the one who wanted to exist, who cost money and effort to bring to life, and Saliss was the hero that was needed, the one who longed to give way and step back, but who persisted until she could live.
It made her so miserable.
And it was her. Saliss would pretend all was well and do what he must, but every part of him that walked under the sun, even in his finest moments, even when the world was at peace…knew that he was in the wrong form.
Sometimes, it didn’t even hurt. That wasn’t as often as would be bearable, but it didn’t feel like…agony. Or wanting to tear off your skin and reveal the true self you knew was down there. Like a mask you were trapped in, suffocating you. Eyes seeing the wrong thing, an illusion you couldn’t dispel—
Sometimes it wasn’t like that. You were happy, laughing, and you were okay. It was just an awareness—‘this isn’t right’, ‘I’d prefer if it were otherwise’. And you could continue.
Other times, it went the other way, and those moments were the dissonance. Imagine if someone swapped you into someone else’s body. That desperation, that sense of wrongness—that was the feeling that could build up, and Saliss had a way to become Onieva!
Saliss didn’t want to imagine a lifetime without the power alchemy had, especially if you were a Drake trapped in Drake society. If you didn’t even know what was wrong, if you didn’t have the words to explain it, what then?
He heard his own voice now, shaky, joking, and his eyes slid across the little room, admiring the wood, the copper nails, everything but his audience of one. But he had to explain, so he tried.
“At first, you think you’re just sick. Mirn thought he was, but he and I were smart. Smart enough not to talk about it openly, especially in the army. The old man found out—”
“Chaldion?”
The question made him flinch. Saliss stared at a wall. Pretend he was talking to himself. He paused, swallowed, then went on.
“Yeah. I’ve been to more [Thought Healers]—in disguise, under the condition of anonymity—than I can count. They say all kinds of things. If they even admit this isn’t me being crazy, most think I have Splitmind Syndrome. That’s where someone has multiple personalities. They might not see reality like it is. Bad stuff. The Minds of Selphids can apparently cause it in people, or you’re just unlucky…but that’s not it.”
She knew who she was, but everyone told her that she was wrong. At least, in Drake culture.
“Ancestors, I even talked to the Healer of Tenbault before I realized she was all hot air. Pretty embarrassing. So many mistakes. Shameful, really. That’s what Mirn and I were. Ashamed of being such problems. And then you tell someone…”
“Who?”
The question threw the [Alchemist] back in time again. Let’s say you figured out who you were. You fixed the problem you were given. That was simple. Someone hands you the wrong body?
Fix it.
Saliss had poured all his money, his time, his Skills into making a potion that could bring forth the true being in his heart. Let her live: the madness of Saliss of Lights was just that he was an imposter.
And yet, the irony was that even when Onieva breathed and held up her arms and felt whole and right, as if she had been born into the correct body after decades of screaming and weeping at the world around her for not fitting in—
She was still a Named-rank adventurer. Still prone to all the mistakes and idiocies of who she was; worse because she was new to everything again, and it was so easy to hurt yourself.
Easy to trust.
Easy to think ‘maybe this person will get me’. Easy to slip, to reveal who you were in a moment of passion, vulnerability, hope, and have them look at you like a monster. And that was if you even told them.
Take Zeter for instance. Swordsman of Six, ‘Sixdicks’—that was Saliss’ nickname for him. He only had one, and it wasn’t that great. But Onieva was ashamed of knowing it. There had been an encounter, just the one.
Six. But only one had gone all the way to—
She couldn’t meet his wife’s eyes. Saliss couldn’t. It happened.
Saliss of Lights, an adventurer, went places. Wherever he went, Onieva popped up. She couldn’t live long. Hours at a time in the beginning. Then days when the potions got better. She only knew who Saliss knew, and she was the weird cousin of Saliss, grandniece of Chaldion. No one was familiar with her.
So of course, whomever Saliss liked or got to know, she’d introduce herself to. She was like a shadow following him around, and Zeter—
They’d once been friends. Never the best with him being all for Manus and loyalty, no subtlety, and Saliss had been the wise-cracking asshole even back then, but dead gods. He was still a Named-rank adventurer, broad-shouldered, the only sturdy being in that terrible world of Named-ranks where everyone was fragile and hadn’t seen horror or battle. She’d…given way to the same temptations he had. A married man.
Of course, she’d called it off. Refused to go anywhere near him or Manus again in horror, and the fallout had led to Saliss and Zeter’s own fight and Zeter’s alienation with other Named-ranks. Mivifa and a lot of good, honest Named-ranks had taken Saliss’ side, but the truth was that Saliss—Onieva—had been just as much to blame.
That was one.
One. There were so many more.
 
——
 
The first lover Saliss had ever had was an [Alchemist] in Pallass, a Drake girl working up the ranks at the same time as he was. It had been sweet, impossible, and mostly Saliss trying to believe he was in love. For all it had ended as it always would have, it had been sweetly done. No fighting, no betrayal, just a wistful parting of ways as they both realized something wasn’t working. Respectfully, even.
That was the best relationship he’d had for…well, top two, even now. Onieva hadn’t been so lucky when she first appeared.
Her first partner had been her Alchemy Master, who had been quite, quite delighted to find she existed. It had been exploitative, horrific in ways the Drake would only later realize as an adult, and that set the bar for everything.
Take that bar and realize Zeter might be above-average for a life fifty years long. Then understand that Saliss was just as bad. He was all guilt and trauma and duty, fulfilling Chaldion’s expectations of him. Become the hero the Walled Cities deserve. Fight and fight—and replace me.
But for his journey in Chandrar and Saliss didn’t know what he would have become. Another casualty of the Antinium Wars, maybe. A neurotic mess like Zeter. A monster. Who knows?
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen saved me. That’s the truth. It’s a mess of a place, more empire than they want to admit despite what they’re famous for doing. Poor Stitch-folk who can’t get ahead because they have a certain cloth. [Slavers] and misery, for all their gold, and so many political intrigues and assassinations…I still love it. I always will. Because it was there I found out who I was.”
A half-mad Drake pursuing a class his grandfather disagreed with. Searching for answers in this dry kingdom, working through the stupid ranks of [Alchemists] and their petty rivalries and feuds…
Saliss glanced at a scar on one arm.
“This scar? I got it in my first [Alchemist] honor-duel. I never thought being good with a blade would help, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen—it took me ages of poking through recipe tomes behind my Master’s back. Looking around and making friends. When I met the first Stitch-man who told me that he’d switched his cloth up because he didn’t like being a Stitch-girl growing up, I freaked out. I nearly sailed back home then and there. Because it was everything. All at once.”
The anger. The shock. And the way the Stitch-man had laughed like it shouldn’t be a surprise. Saliss had never found him again. The Drake spread his claws, and they were calm, now. Now he was in it, damned or not.
“They understood. Not just…understood. They had the answers. Every Drake [Thought Healer] told me I had a second personality, it was stress, that I had a Blood Class and I needed to fix it—and the Stitch-folk just looked at me and wondered why I was freaking out. Change your nose. Change your genitals. Change who you are. It’s easy for them. They don’t care.”
That was the offensive part. That was what burned. Mirn didn’t get it because he had never gone abroad, but there was something incredibly painful about finding an entire culture and species who couldn’t care less if you wanted to be someone else.
“It’s not like loving other men is that open, but it’s not going to get anything more than a rude comment. Drakes will shun you, exile you or kill you—in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you’ll get a snide remark from the girl who you beat to the kiss. That’s when I realized I wasn’t crazy, or mistaken—I just didn’t have all the facts.”
And so began a journey that had taken over a decade of work. Focusing his [Alchemist] class around transformation—battle alchemy was just a side-project, a way to earn money as a Silver-rank adventurer. Making a potion so Onieva could appear.
The rest was easy enough to figure out, Saliss thought. Certainly, the Gnoll sitting on the bed understood.
Saliss finished telling the story and clasped his hands together as he smiled at his scales. There were no scars on Onieva’s arms. She was younger, stronger than he was—and he was strong.
Right, he was doing it again. Thinking of Onieva as someone else. It was the only way to talk about such things that worked for Saliss. Saying ‘me’ just hurt too much. And besides, no one could know.
Only Mirn knew. Mirn, that Dragon, Rose, and now…Ishkr. And a host of ex-lovers knew Onieva or Saliss were something, a Turnscale, or that Onieva turned into someone else. But he wasn’t sure if even old Zeter quite understood he was more than a Drake who liked kissing other male Drakes.
Far more than that, Sixswords. I’d fit right into your little view of the world if only I could be in the right body all the time. Mirn’s the one who’ll never look right, who can never love in front of your eyes without being wrong.
Saliss stared at his claws, because it was infinitely preferable to peering up—especially to seeing what Ishkr’s reaction was. Saliss was sitting on the Drake-friendly chair across from Ishkr, his tail curled up in a spiral as he looked down at the floorboards. The Gnoll was sitting crosslegged on the bed.
And now he knew. Saliss, Onieva, Onieva, Saliss. She’d changed back to Saliss’ body to prove it. Since seeing was believing, but it was still her. Just as Saliss.
She didn’t, uh—uh—remember what she’d said. She’d done it enough times that she had gotten it most right.
‘Hey, you know how Turnscales exist? Well, that’s me. Surprised? You shouldn’t be. I’m a Named-rank, and you know, heh, how we are. I’m Saliss. Yep. Saliss. Guess who made a potion to transform into a far more attractive female Drake? This [Alchemist]. Sorry for lying about it, but this is who I am. I—hey, you want something to throw? I’ve got some throwing knives someone tossed at me one of the times I did this. Here. That’s me. As for why? It’s not just for fun. I’m sort of like someone trapped in the wrong body. I’ve always wanted to be a woman. It’s who I am. Sorry I tricked you and all. Please don’t be sick. I’m sorry. Forgive me. Tada.’
That was—more or less—how the conversation went. She’d gotten it down to a science, though the voice wobble never vanished. And this was a good revelation; she’d started with the Shirka story, gotten more details out, and he wasn’t shouting yet.
She had an exit window, it wasn’t after—or during—sex, and she wasn’t crying uncontrollably.
Nor had he started hitting her. So Top 5 already. She couldn’t wait to tell Mirn.
He. Saliss rubbed at the scar on his arm as his perception changed and he just felt like Saliss. Wrong body. If he thought like Onieva, then he’d vomit twice because his scales itched. He wanted to rip his scales off, but there was only blood and flesh under there, not Onieva’s arms. He’d tried it more than once, and the result never changed.
He was grinning as he spread his hands, but almost more relaxed than Onieva had been. Only one person had ever asked to see him transform back. Saliss didn’t mind a few hits. It hurt less.
In fact, this entire conversation had gone differently than he’d expected. Onieva had said her bit, then delivered the proof. Cue taking the potion, and Ishkr’s hair had stood up with shock.
Classic Gnoll behavior. Drakes would do the same with their neck spines, or their tails would give away agitation. Humans did it with hair and goosebumps. Ishkr was genuinely unsettled, but he hadn’t gone straight to shouting for her to get out or screaming for the Watch. Instead, he said something funny.
“You—this could be a prank. If you’re really Saliss, tell me, uh, something only Saliss would know. Where did you and Erin first meet?”
“Jail cell in Pallass. She gave me a bit of her happy flames.”
“When the Goblin King was coming, what did you say to me?”
“That you and everyone else was there. That we were all damned because we weren’t just Named-ranks, but heroes. The people who have to do this again and again.”
“Oh.”
That soft ‘oh’ made Saliss twitch. That was the moment when Ishkr believed. The [Alchemist] glanced up and saw the Gnoll sitting there.
He was wearing that handsome suit that he’d found when Erin had given him the [Boon of the Guest] with Ulvama in it. He generally only had good work clothing; it was speckled with rain, but he’d combed his hair.
Ready for his date with the mysterious Drake who’d met him before the Winter Solstice, Onieva. The quick-witted, nimble woman with high levels and mystery who’d flirted back with him and then agreed to go on a date because…she was lonely.
Possibly, he’d been hoping this date would have a happy ending. It had been quite pleasant any number of times, though Onieva never stayed long. She could do up to nine hours depending on the quality of the potion, Faerie Flower potions being an exception, and…and this had been one of the longest relationships she’d had. Not a one-night stand or a short visit to a city.
She’d even woken up in his arms once or twice. Before fleeing. So, yes, Ishkr had probably been hoping to hear about why Onieva was leaving, get in one last night to remember. Kiss a beautiful Drake and create a memory.
Instead, he got a fifty-year old male Drake in his rooms telling him about how he’d been tricked. Wonderful gift, that.
Just get mad already. Saliss waited. And waited. And when the silence dragged on, when he could bear it no longer, he grinned and coughed theatrically.
“Hey, Ishkr, buddy, I’ve got to get packing for tomorrow. So if we could speed up on the throwing things and throwing up? I’ve got a bag of holding. Here. The trick with throwing knives is you flick them—”
Saliss got up and handed Ishkr his bag of holding and actually grabbed the Gnoll’s paws to demonstrate correct posture. He was a handsy Drake as Saliss. Touching Ishkr felt all wrong.
Intimate. He could remember the Gnoll’s paws on Onieva, all their encounters as she’d approached him and he’d realized she was high-level and they’d—
Wrong. Wrong body. Saliss jerked his claws back, feeling that terrible, painful sense of wrongness, like stepping on the wrong side of the street but magnified a million times. He checked himself, almost reached for a vial on his waist, and stopped.
I’ve only got six left, and that’s because the Faerie Flowers versions were so easy to make. I’ve lost them all. Back to making these Draughts of True Self. Six left. On the other hand, it’s not like I’ll need them in the New Lands. It’ll be Saliss all the way down with the Pallassian army unless I find a city or something.
Depression sank over him. That would be hell. He’d handle it well for a month or two, then start itching all over. Going crazy. Well, crazier than usual.
Saliss was actually getting impatient and mad now. Come on, call me Creler spawn, throw something at me, and let me get back to work.
Jump out the window, douse Ishkr in memory draught, do a second dose come nightfall and some post-hypnotic murmuring in his sleep, and pack up in an hour. It’d be such a relief to get it over with.
…But the Gnoll didn’t say, ‘get out’ or ‘you sick freak’ or anything else. Instead, he gazed up, and he was shocked. Confused. His eyes lingered on Saliss, then he spoke.
“Can I…if I’m talking to you, is Onieva listening? No, wait. You’re one and the same.”
“Yep. We remember—well, I didn’t when I had the Faerie Flower version of the potion, but that’s a different story. I mean, I remember. I’m…Onieva. Want to speak to her? She’s easier on the eyes. I—I only have a few potions, so that’s all you’ll get for a while.”
Ishkr was blinking, staring at Saliss, clearly still wondering if this was a prank.
I wish, Ishkr.
“I think—Onieva might be best. Sorry, Saliss, but it’s so—”
“No problem! One second—”
Saliss cast around, then slung himself under the bed before drinking the tonic. Ishkr almost glanced underneath before a voice shouted at him.
“Don’t look!”
That made Ishkr recoil. The changing Drake shifted underneath the bed, and seeing Saliss was one thing, knowing Onieva and Saliss was another. But—seeing the change—she didn’t even let Mirn see that.
When Onieva pulled herself out sheepishly, she was naked. Clothing tended to get torn during the transformation, and Saliss was always naked anyways. So, she grabbed Ishkr’s sheets and pulled them around her.
“Well, now it looks like you and I were doing something. If you chase me out, give me a second to put on clothes, okay? I can say I was a faithless harlot—no problem.”
She joked, and Ishkr stared at her. His eyes traced the differences in her facial structure, her body, still slim, but differently built, her rose-pink and cobalt patterning along her snout, even the youth that Saliss had lost.
Now get angry. Come on, please. I can’t take it any longer. Just let me have it.
Let me…have what I know is coming.
Each and every time. Even Mirn had freaked out the first time Saliss had come back from Chandrar and explained who he was. Only Stitchfolk had seen her. Sometimes seen her despite Saliss’ face. Stitchfolk, and the Dragon.
He saw me for who I am. That means something. That means I’m not crazy.
Sometimes that alone calmed her down at night. A proof from an Ancestor that could banish the doubts that plagued her, even now. The voice whispering in her ear like Chaldion’s.
Onieva waited, getting angrier and angrier. Trembling, now. Longing to get it over with. Spring the trap, unleash the hate.
What was taking him so long?
 
——
 
Ishkr Silverfang didn’t know what to say.
He was genuinely, totally unsure what to tell Onieva. Saliss. His mind was grappling with what she’d told him, but he got the important bits.
Saliss was actually Onieva. And he was actually she—that wasn’t that hard. Ishkr had long suspected that if Xesci wanted, the [Courtesan of Change] could transform to be anyone, not just a variety of female faces.
What was surprising was to hear that Saliss’ transformation wasn’t some prank, which was what Ishkr had thought, at first, this was. And he’d been so hurt and angry…until he saw her trembling like a leaf and realized she was afraid.
No, Onieva was the true Drake, and the cracking voice, the desperation in Saliss’ eyes, all the jokes and bravado masked someone trying to exist. A Turnscale in Drake society.
Just like Zel Shivertail.
That was easy to understand. Hadn’t Ishkr eavesdropped on Rose and the other Earthers time and again? Erin had told him—well, he suspected she wasn’t much of an expert on this particular subject, but Ryoka and Fierre talked, and they weren’t as covert as they thought.
More importantly, Ishkr knew this tale, a variation of it, firsthand. After all…he was Liska’s older brother.
Turnscales were a thing you heard about as a kid, called each other until someone gave you a punch or an adult shouted at you for, and you realized it was actually a bad thing. Just what it was depended on how many questions you asked.
Ishkr had grown up with a vaguely Drake understanding of the word since he’d come to Liscor with the Silverfangs. He didn’t know how the tribes handled it; he had a vague sense it wasn’t as much of an issue, but he was no expert.
What he did know, firsthand, was how much trouble you could get into if your sister was a Turnscale and had grown up running with other girls her age and developing a real hatred of the Watch or anyone who told her not to do things.
The amount of times Ishkr had needed to go to the Watch House to bail her out of jail, or her mother had—he’d tried everything from shouting at Liska to taking her to a [Healer] to…
All the things you did or were supposed to do. Then he’d just given up and tried to make a living working jobs that bored him while dealing with his problem-sister, until Krshia Silverfang had asked if he wanted a job working at a strange inn for a Human she could vouch for.
The rest was Ishkr’s history. It wasn’t interesting. He wasn’t interesting. If he had become interesting, it was purely because he had stayed close to the locus, the heart of wonders herself, and stolen a bit of it to coat his own fur. Everything that came after was something that was, to Ishkr, a gift. Something he had chased in his own quiet way, clung to.
It was why he could survive the [Palace of Fates], face the Goblin King or Facestealer, and despite his terror, continue onwards. Because it was worth it. Because this mattered. He’d never quit the inn. He’d die first and think it was worth it. His fear was that he wouldn’t be able to keep up—that he’d not be able to follow Erin. He was fine with not being the best employee. Just afraid that there wouldn’t be a spot for him.
All this to say that when Ishkr sat here, realizing that he’d been sleeping with Saliss of Lights—Onieva—his first reaction wasn’t disgust or betrayal like she suspected. Rather, the first thing the younger Gnoll was thinking was…he owed his younger sister an apology.
Ishkr had already had a sense that whatever he understood about Turnscales had been wrong. When he had brought up Liska’s…problem…to Erin, she hadn’t so much as blinked. No one cared if Lady Ieka came in and ogled every lady in sight. So he’d stopped badgering Liska about her girlfriend—the [Doorgnoll] was working so much anyways he suspected they hadn’t met as much.
But he hadn’t ever thought to himself that maybe he’d been the one who was wrong, and it was uncomfortable. He felt hot, sweaty under his fur. Embarrassed, and he didn’t want to apologize to Liska. Because she would lord it over him, be a child about it…
Then he saw Saliss’ hands shaking. Then he saw the Drake offer him some throwing daggers and joke about throwing them at him, and Ishkr realized…oh.
Oh no. That’s not a joke. Someone’s actually thrown these very daggers at him.
The Gnoll went from hot to cold. From embarrassed and vaguely resentful to wondering how much more he didn’t know. He still felt shocked. Intensely!
Onieva is Saliss? I’ve been kissing Saliss of Lights? Me?
Ishkr had been making love to a Named-rank adventurer? The top of the Gnoll’s head would have exploded, and there was some discomfort at the thought. Hence him asking to talk to Onieva. But the more Ishkr gazed at her, the more he couldn’t shake that moment out of his head.
Saliss of Lights, standing in the hallway, speaking about what made a hero. Saliss facing the Guild of Assassins. A Drake standing on the walls of Pallass and fighting an entire Weyr alone.
So the question became—that Drake? Why would he—she—settle for me? That hero of Pallass? Me?
That made it easier, the immense respect that Ishkr had for Saliss. So, his problem:
He had no idea what to say. Genuinely and truly…what in Rhir’s Hells were you supposed to say here?
He couldn’t imagine what Erin would say. It felt like Ishkr could speak something trite and vaguely accepting, but the weight of what Onieva had confessed…he was no Erin. He wouldn’t get away with it.
The Gnoll [Server] was trying to think about what someone else would do. Lyonette? Well, if she wasn’t horrified, she’d probably scold Onieva for the deception. But the female Drake was glancing at the window, and Ishkr had the feeling that she was one sneeze away from leaping out of it and he’d never see her again.
What do I do? He had no answers. What would…Ishkr ran through his mental library of people he knew.
Mrsha would say something like: ‘That’s so cool! Can you turn me into a boy Gnoll? I don’t care about sex anyways because it’s all gross.’
Bird would probably say something about birds being birds regardless of gender and that he’d shoot them.
Not reassuring. Don’t make a joke out of this. Think. Do something to show her you’re not angry. Hug her? No, that’s stupid.
A voice spoke in Ishkr’s head, in the words of an enlightened [Sage]. None other than Captain Todi spoke in Ishkr’s moment of crisis.
“Lad, the answer is simple. What you do to this fine lady is you push her onto the bed and show her you don’t care if she’s an Adult Creler in disguise. You fuck those doubts out of her.”
Ishkr discarded the vote for ‘have sex’ and put that below making a Bird-based analogy. That would be a Todi-thing to do, and thus it was the worst option he could take.
He waited for Erin’s wisdom. The thoughtful, kind statements that held a glimmer of wonder from his [Innkeeper] that would be the magic balm Onieva needed.
…They never came. The [Head Server], who could sometimes read Erin’s will, got no enlightenment from her. And he wondered if she would know what to do or say in this situation.
So he was alone, and Onieva was beginning to get antsy. She leaned forwards, growled, and then tried to smile. Failed at all three.
“I know it’s a lot. I’m sorry. I’m leaving tomorrow, so I can—why don’t I go?”
She stood up, and he panicked, but so did she. Onieva turned to the door and swung around.
“Just don’t tell anyone! You can’t. Or I’ll—you cannot. Understand?”
“I understand.”
That was the first thing he said, and she nodded. Then she hesitated, fumbled with the lock, and gave up and turned back.
“Would you like to hit me?”
“What? No!”
“I think you’re in shock. Look, we can get you into it. Here, what if you just choke me in a non-fun way? That’s a good entry point. Here—”
She picked up his paws, put them around her neck, and he dropped them. Ishkr was shaking his head. The time to figure out the perfect words had ended.
“I’m not going to hit you! Who—who does that?”
“Oh, just—it happens. I’ve had a few experiences with past, um, lovers.”
She was avoiding looking at him. Window again. And now Ishkr did get mad. Because he was suddenly jealous.
Talking about past lovers—wait, they’d tried to hit her? Because she was a Turnscale? Shock was becoming a horrible curiosity.
“What was that you said about Zeter? You and he—?”
“Just once. Six times.”
Dead gods. Wasn’t he married? Onieva squirmed under Ishkr’s stare.
“See? Monstrous. I could never have long relationships anyways. I can only be ‘me’ for six hours. At first, it was only a few minutes. Barely enough time for anything…my Alchemy Master hated that.”
“Your what? Wait. Did you sleep with…?”
Onieva shrugged as if it were normal.
“Well, that’s how it works in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. After the first two potions, he put a condition on helping me research them. And I was so grateful to him that—”
“You slept with your master?”
Ishkr nearly shouted that, but she covered his mouth. Her hand leapt back.
“Um. Yes. It was one of the better relationships, actually. I’ve had a lot of flings. I’m a pretty loose woman. Sorry, you should have expected that when I said I was an adventurer. No staying chaste until marriage. All mistakes.”
Now he was pretty sure she was egging him on. However, it worked. Ishkr got up and adjusted his tie. She flinched, but he was muttering as he paced back and forth.
“How far is Nerrhavia’s Fallen? I heard the Horns of Hammerad were headed that way, and they were lost at sea for ages.”
The question genuinely threw Onieva.
“It’s probably still a month of travel unless you hire a Courier-class ship. Why?”
Ishkr sighed.
“I need to sail there and beat up an [Alchemist]. Then, hopefully, my Skill will let me teleport back. I don’t actually know if it has a limit. What was your Alchemy Master’s name?”
She blinked at him. Then she seemed to realize it was a joke. Well, Ishkr would have considered a trip if it was only as far as Zeres.
“Hah. No, but it’s fine—”
“It’s not. Stop saying that. And stop insinuating I’m about to hit you! Are you telling me every relationship you’ve had has ended with you jumping out a window after someone tries to punch you?”
He growled back. She wavered, licked her lips. Her tail uncurled slightly.
“W-well, sometimes they just tried to call the Watch or were in denial.”
“But in general yes to the violence part? Like in Pallass? Have you seen anyone here?”
Onieva hesitated.
“I’m careful…I’ve had a few relationships, but I didn’t tell them I was Saliss, of course. Just the other bits about being a Turnscale. That was enough.”
“Right, so someone in the City of Inventions hit you after you told them who you were?”
“Maaaybe? Why are you asking?”
“What’s their name? I’m just going to throw them off a roof.”
He’d never committed a crime like that, but Ishkr reckoned that if Erin could get away with it…Onieva laughed incredulously.
“What? No. Don’t be stupid, Ishkr. It’s fine. I erased their memories anyways.”
“You can do that?”
“Um…”
She grew shifty again, and Ishkr wondered if her contingency plans had involved erasing his memories. He reminded himself that she was a Level 50+ [Alchemist] who could probably snap his neck like a twig.
…She was really attractive.
He slapped his cheeks to get Sage Todi out of his head. Focus.
“Okay, what are their names?”
“They don’t even remember.”
“It’s the same person. I won’t throw them off a rooftop. I’ll just slip poop into their next meal.”
One trip into the outhouses before it was acid-jarred and with gloves, obviously. Onieva giggled, then cocked her head. She was peering at him, frowning.
“Wait, it sounds like you’re not going to start slapping—”
He put his paws over his ears.
“Please stop telling me how many times you were abused.”
He couldn’t take it. He was getting upset, and Ishkr didn’t often get upset. He sat down; his pacing was making her nervous.
“Onieva…I’m shocked. I won’t lie. Especially about you being—”
She flinched, and he didn’t say ‘Saliss’.
“That makes me uncomfortable. A bit.”
“Totally understandable. Like I said, even Mirn freaked out and ran off, and I wasn’t sleeping with him! You’re taking this really well, did I say that? Only Stitch-folk have never cared, and…what can I do to make this easier? I-I don’t know.”
He looked at her, and then he did know what to say. It wasn’t an Erin-comment. Just an Ishkr original. The [Wandering Server of Stories] cleared his throat and mumbled.
“Um…can you tell me more about what people have done to you?”
She blinked, and her mouth opened.
“If this is something you’re into—”
“No! Not the partners after they found out. What…what’s it like being a Turnscale?”
The [Alchemist] couldn’t see where he was going with this and frowned, folding her arms, and he explained, blushing under his fur.
“Please. I want to know. Because…of Liska. I never thought—I knew you got in trouble. But you talk about it like—far worse than I thought.”
When she remembered his younger sister, Onieva blinked. Then a shadow passed over her face. Her tail uncurled, though, and she glanced down at the floor.
“I forgot your sister’s…Mirn and I don’t have many ties to Liscor. Oh, you don’t know. He’s a [Protector]. Of Turnscales.”
“Really?”
“Mhm. Technically he’s…let’s not get into terms. What’s it like being a Turnscale? What a question. I don’t know. Hard. Mostly, it’s just finding people like you, not saying the obvious. We live like anyone else—we just have a special place we go to relax and be ourselves. It’s nothing special. 95% of how we act is probably exactly like anyone else. 5% of it is sneaking to a bar or get-together or trying to find a place where we don’t feel crazy. And one hundred percent of the time you’re afraid someone’s going to find out or that you’ll reveal yourselves, but that’s all internal.”
Oh. That sounded better than he feared, actually. Ishkr relaxed slightly.
“Liska always got in trouble with the Watch, but it wasn’t huge.”
Onieva felt at her neck-spines, playing with them.
“Huh. Normally if you get outed as a Turnscale the Watch is the least of it. But then, she’s young. Liscor could also just be less…Drake than most cities. They were cut off till now. Plus, she’s a Gnoll.”
More and more positive. Ishkr was downgrading the level of his apology to Liska. He smiled.
“So being a Turnscale’s not that unique?”
“Not as much as being a different species in Pallass.”
Onieva smiled back. Then added.
“—until someone catches you.”
“What happens then?”
The [Alchemist] looked past him, not at a window, but a wall this time, and her face went blank. Her voice quivered with a different intensity.
“Oh, then if you’re lucky, you’re just called disgusting, and you have time to pack up before someone finds you. You can even write it off. Until the first time someone tries to bash your skull in. Or they throw so many stones they cave your friend’s head in and toss you into the sewers.”
The Gnoll froze up. Onieva continued, blinking a few times.
“If you’re lucky, it’s one person. Someone who thought you were a girl beats you up because he made a mistake. Easy for a friend to get you out of sight. Not if word spreads. Then, if enough people hear about it, and they’re outraged enough, they move fast. In Pallass it’s probably the Watch who comes to exile or imprison you. In a smaller city, they’ll just throw you off the walls. If you make it that far.”
“What, that’s not all Turnscales. Liska never had that happen. Now and then she’d have bruises from getting in a fight. Or someone hurled something at…”
Ishkr was denying it now, but his mind flashed back to times he had to call on Liska and he’d find an empty healing potion bottle and she’d be particularly upset. She had scars he assumed were from scraps…and now Onieva was getting mad at him. Her tone lowered several degrees.
“I’m sure Liska has never had anything bad happen to her. I’m sure Liscor is different from any other Izrilian city, north or south.”
“But she’s never told me she was in danger.”
“Yeah. I wonder why.”
The [Alchemist]’s expression said that Ishkr was being a fool, but now he was annoyed himself. Angrily, the Gnoll jabbed a thumb at his chest.
“I’m her older brother! She’d tell me something like that, Onieva.”
“Sure. Unless she wasn’t sure you’d be the one who’d beat her to death with your paws.”
Ishkr stood.
“I’d never—”
Now he was ready to fight her despite knowing how well that would go. That was too far. But Ishkr saw Onieva studying him, and her own ire had been replaced by sadness. Something like a smile returned to her face, though.
“No. You wouldn’t, would you? How’s she supposed to know that, though? If anyone who was older ever talked to her, they’d tell her never to tell family. It happens, Ishkr.”
He sat down hard. He wanted to say, ‘no, that’s an exaggeration’. But now he was scrutinizing his memories. And worse…he didn’t even have to search far for an example to believe this might happen.
He lived on the same floor of the inn as Mrsha, and he had seen what they had tried to do to Doombringers. Ishkr stared at his paws.
“Have you ever found out what happened and wanted to hit them?”
“Yes. But usually, it’s too risky to go around attacking people. That’s not how the community operates. Vengeance just draws attention. Mirn is a [Protector]. It’s hard, but it keeps more people safe.”
And if you start taking revenge, maybe it draws attention to you. Ishkr looked up. He saw her watching him, still guarded, but curious.
“This is bigger than I thought, isn’t it? I thought Rose was just being silly. But this…how many Turnscales are there?”
“In Pallass? I don’t count or do lists. It’s a bad idea. Mirn’s bar serves hundreds, and he’s a fraction of a fraction…and who’d ever admit to it? Who realizes they’re Turnscale?”
“How did I not know of this? I knew about the Antinium. I knew about the Doombearers…but those were just stories.”
He felt like he was a first-time visitor to the inn. Onieva cleared her throat gently.
“Look, unless you are one, it’s not something that comes up often. Some Turnscales don’t even know they are one. You’re a young Gnoll who likes kissing girls. No problems. People would look at you more askance for kissing a Drake or Human—and that’s it. It’s just not your problem. I appreciate you caring so much…you’re not going to throw things at me, are you?”
“No. No, Onieva. I’m not.”
He met her mismatched eyes, and the [Alchemist] sighed. She seemed to stretch for an age, un-tensing just a tiny bit. Then she lay on the floor, spread-eagled.
“Well, rats. This is the worst possible outcome. Mirn was right. What the heck do I do now?”
 
——
 
Now, Onieva was spiraling. She was desperate, damned, and rudderless. Because Ishkr wasn’t committing bodily harm on her, and she was panicking.
She was actually wondering if hitting him with memory dust and jumping out the window was an option. This was terrifying.
She lay there as Ishkr got up and left the room for a second. When he came back, he had a pitcher of goat’s milk in hand. He poured her a cup and held it out.
“That’s so [Head Server] of you.”
“Hey. If you don’t want some…”
She took a glass, drank it down, and grimaced.
“I need something stiffer.”
“I could get you—”
“Nope, that’s a joke. I have to fly out with General Edellein tomorrow, and I’d rather not start drinking.”
I won’t stop after this. Ishkr sat on the floor next to her.
“So you are Saliss.”
She knew that this was big, but it did smart a bit.
Less than getting punched; let it go. She raised one brow at him.
“Still having trouble with it?”
“There’s a non-zero chance this is all still some prank by Saliss. Not a funny one.”
She filled her cup, licking the liquid moodily.
“No. Not funny at all. I’m afraid it’s the truth. Weirded out?”
“…Yes.”
Don’t punch him, he’s being honest. Who could love Saliss, anyways? Onieva hunched her shoulders. Then Ishkr added.
“It is weird. But I respect Saliss of Lights. Aside from Erin, he’s one of the few people I think the world needs more of. He’s probably one of the few people in the world I think is heroic. Fetohep of Khelt, Mrsha…he’s near the top of that list.”
She jumped and actually tossed her cup at him. He caught it and managed to catch the liquid with some stupid serving Skill.
“Don’t do that. I don’t need you to make me feel better about myself.”
“Why? I mean it—”
She writhed at the compliment, scratching herself all over.
“Stop it!”
“Is—is this you having the dissonance problem? Or is this just you being unable to take a genuine compliment?”
Ishkr stood over the [Alchemist] as she wriggled around on the floor. She kicked him in the leg.
“Shut up. You’re not supposed to be taking this well.”
He shrugged and took a gulp of her milk.
“You live in Erin’s inn long enough and nothing surprises you that much. If Nalthaliarstrelous popped out of the ground while I was picking blue fruits, it’d feel normal. But knowing about Turnscales…”
It bothered him. And she refused to like him for it. Onieva glared and snatched her cup back.
“You’re an outsider. This is our problem, our fight. I appreciate you figuring out how much your sister’s dealt with. Be nicer to her. But focus: this is about me and you. I’ve told you, you lost your beating chance, so now…I’m off tomorrow. When Saliss gets back, I’ll come say hi. But that’s it.”
“Are you—are you breaking up with me?”
His eyes widened, and he seemed shocked, then hurt. Onieva snapped, and her claw was shaking again.
“Yes! Because this doesn’t work, idiot!”
“I don’t get it. Why am I the idiot? You told me your secret, and you just assumed—it’s because you didn’t intend this to be permanent? I get that. I knew you’d get bored of me or find someone better.”
Ancestors, what was he on about? He appeared so resigned and sad she grabbed his tie and yanked him down to eye-level.
“No, you sulfur-sniffing idiot. You’re breaking up with me because I’m a Turnscale. I’m Saliss! I’m all wrong and leaving, and you can’t imagine what it’s like to try a relationship after this.”
“But I haven’t freaked out. Nor do those things mean I want to just never speak to you again.”
“Well…I…don’t be unreasonable.”
“Me? Unreasonable? You’re the one assuming we were going to break up the moment we had a chat! Did you even think I’d have a reaction that didn’t include violence?”
His ears flattened as he got genuinely angry, and Onieva whirled.
“Look, you’re a nice kid. But I’m literally twice your age. The age gap is horrendous, and I lied to you. Add in all the other things and it’s red flags.”
“Right, and you could never think of me as a long-term partner.”
She turned back to stomp on his foot.
“Not what I said.”
“Ow.”
He massaged his ankle as she hesitated.
“I—you—we wouldn’t work. You haven’t hit your high levels yet. I know you’ve hit Level 40, but when you finally class-consolidate, find that thing that defines you, you’re going to become some kind of crazy or a monster. Then who knows who you’ll be.”
“And I was just good for a moment. I know I’m boring.”
“Stop. Saying. That. That’s not what I meant!”
He was reframing this around him. Ishkr dodged her stomping foot. He glanced at her.
“That’s why my last girlfriend broke up with me. I liked you. But I thought you’d break up with me eventually. I didn’t know you were Saliss. I did think you might be an [Assassin].”
She was so astonished she stopped trying to crush a toe and blinked at him.
“You thought I was one of those idiots? I told you I was an [Alchemist].”
He sniffed.
“Well, you never practiced it that I could see. And you were high-level, vanished often…I was really hoping you weren’t going to tell me that. Then I’d have had to think about breaking up with you. All things considered, this is better. Look, I understand you’re a Named-rank adventurer. You don’t settle down. And you’re headed into the New Lands. I won’t tell anyone. I get it.”
She glared at him.
“You’re acting like this is somehow about you not being good enough. It’s about me. I’m the Turnscale.”
Ishkr scowled back, tugging one boot off to stare at his foot.
“Well, why are you dumping me? Also, stop stomping. You nearly broke my foot!”
“I’m not dumping—I’m saving you from yourself! You’re great! I loved our time together! I’m bringing you to the logical conclusion you can’t come to!”
“Why are you yelling at me? Why are we fighting?”
“We’re not fighting. Stop being dense…”
She tried to stomp a few more times. Ishkr escorted his other foot to safety around the room as Onieva chased him. Then he whirled.
“What if I still liked you? What if I dared to still want to try and get to know you, the real you? What then?”
He caught her off-guard, and she dodged backwards reflexively. And that simple motion, backstepping and twisting on a heel, looked natural. Flawless, as she was. Ishkr had grown up, like most people, wishing he could move his body like how his mind wanted to.
Onieva was that dream, and she was enthralling because of that. Not just because of her appearance…and she still had the gall to shake her head and demur.
“Don’t be stupid. I’m all kinds of problems.”
“I live at The Wandering Inn.”
“I can only exist in six-hour chunks. I’m crazy.”
“I served a dead man breakfast this morning. Kevin. Erin is my employer.”
“I…you’re not thinking this through. You’ll live. You just have low self-esteem because you haven’t realized you’re attractive and high-level. There’s plenty of fish in the sea. You can do better.”
He stared at her, looking amused, holding his boot defensively for protection.
“I know you can do better. But can I? You’re Saliss—”
“Stop saying that so normally!”
Stomp. Stomp. Stomp. She went for his foot, and he ran to avoid the stomp of wrath.
“Stop trying to break my foot! Why are we fighting?”
“We’re not fighting! Shut up! Stop being stupid! What the hell is wrong with you?”
“I work at The Wandering Inn!”
 
——
 
After a few minutes, Calescent had to stop working on his prepped dinners. He came out into the common room in a lull between any crazy happenings and just…took a break with the other members of staff.
Captain Todi, Peggy, Captain Earlia, and Elia! She smiled at him, but then saw his flushed face and turned a bit red herself.
“Damn. They still at it, Calescent?”
Captain Todi grinned as he played cards with Earlia and Peggy. He was teaching them to gamble, and Calescent fanned his face with a hat.
“We need more silencing spells.”
Normally, he didn’t pay attention to what was going on in the inn, but he’d seen Onieva and Ishkr going upstairs, and they just happened to be right above his kitchen. Again, not a problem, but—
He couldn’t imagine what was going on to generate that level of thumping. Okay, he had a perfect idea of what was going on. Elia turned redder as Peggy cackled.
“Is high-level people problems. You should have heard what happened when Chieftain Garen had company.”
“Must be nice to have someone like that. Anyone know Onieva well?”
Earlia glanced at the stairs, and Todi shrugged.
“She’s Saliss’ cousin or something. I can say this: Ishkr’s got good taste. But maybe he’s the catch?”
Calescent shook his head. He’d give them thirty more minutes, then he’d have to knock or put in earplugs. He joined the card table as Elia decided to join in as well.
“At least the inn’s sturdy thanks to Miss Solstice’s Skills.”
They looked at her, and she elaborated.
“If you’re too…vigorous…at high levels, you could go through the floorboards if you’re not careful.”
Everyone stared at her, and Elia Arcsinger decided that she shouldn’t speak ever again. After a while Peggy nodded.
“Is good for Ishkr.”
Everyone nodded. Calescent sighed wistfully as he glanced at the ceiling.
Lucky Gnoll.
 
——
 
Onieva finally stopped trying to stomp Ishkr’s foot in when she put her foot through one of the floorboards. The crack and Ishkr’s exclamation made her halt guiltily.
“My floor!”
“Oh, sorry—I can fix that. Let me just—”
She could glue the floorboards together with some solvent, but that would look bad, and she’d splintered straight through it. Onieva felt at her belt pouches. Then regarded Ishkr.
“You, ah, wouldn’t happen to have a [Repair] scroll, would you?”
“Erin used to repair everything with her Skill. How’d you even break it with her [Reinforced Structure] Skills? What would have happened to my foot if you’d hit it?”
He was so genuinely upset over his floorboards she got less angry. Then more angry, again, as she realized his damaged flooring was actually upsetting him more than her being a Turnscale.
What is wrong with—?
However, it distracted them enough to leave the rooms. When they came down and Ishkr asked if there was a Scroll of [Repair] around, the staff took one look at him, then Todi wolf-whistled and everyone began applauding.
“Damn, just like Elia said! Take it easy on the old inn, would ya? We need it intact before the new one’s built!”
What was he…? Onieva blushed, and Ishkr folded his arms and glared. Peggy got up, laughing.
“I can send Asgra to buy one. No problem!”
She winked at them, and Calescent stood up. Onieva was trying to think of an excuse when the [Chef] put his hat in his hands.
“Um. Ishkr. Onieva. This is hard to say. But maybe…maybe we buy [Silence] spells after today? And be a little…gentler? Is very loud. In the kitchen. Below your rooms.”
The Gnoll and Drake exchanged glances, and now Onieva knew she was blushing.
“No, we weren’t—”
What did she say? She was trying to stomp Ishkr’s foot in because he wouldn’t break up with her for reasons of being a Turnscale? Onieva stopped and gazed at her reflection in the scrying mirror television on the walls. It was inactive so she caught sight of herself and wondered…
What am I doing? He doesn’t hate me. He wants to continue. This is a miracle. I can’t throw it away. But is it real? Do I believe it’s real?
Even in The Wandering Inn, this might be too much of a miracle for…she gave Calescent an apologetic smile.
“Sorry. But don’t worry—I’m going away tomorrow. I’m, uh, actually working with Pallass’ army. Saliss and I are both heading to the New Lands. It’ll be months before we’re back unless one of us catches a Pegasus Ride. We are setting up supply lines, so it could happen.”
The [Spice Chef] stared at her, and the rest of the staff stirred. Calescent un-scrunched his hat.
“Oh. Oh. In that case…I get my food from the kitchen. I’ll go to Barehoof Kitchens. You two have fun.”
“No, that’s not—”
He patted both solemnly on the shoulders.
“Is very important to say goodbyes. Peggy, make Asgra get [Silence] spells before Mrsha comes home from school.”
He gave them both such a dignified nod that Ishkr and Onieva didn’t have the heart to correct him. Todi lifted his cup.
“Here’s to long-distance relationships! Don’t you go cheating on this Drake, Ishkr! She’s a keeper!”
“Thanks, Sage Todi.”
Ishkr muttered, and Onieva blushed again. Todi was an obsequious rat. She would not like him for complimenting her and…
When Ishkr turned to her, she almost leapt away again. He spoke to Calescent and the others.
“We were actually just arguing. Onieva wants to break up because she’s going away for a while. I don’t want to break up because of that. Someone help me.”
“What?”
Peggy was horrified. She shook her head.
“It work! You make charm bracelets and swear to be good! You two cute! Who Ishkr going to love if not you? Some weirdo like Salkis? Stay together! Give him a shot, Onieva! We dress him better and level him up a few times and he be great when you return!”
She dashed over and took Ishkr’s other arm, and the flustered Drake tried to laugh it off. And she could laugh, she realized.
“No, I know he’s great. This is the best breakup I’ve ever…I’ve been trying this entire time, and he’s too damn understanding! It’s me! I’m not the catch! I’m actually fifty years old, almost.”
Todi and Earlia spat out their drinks. He stared at her.
“What? Dead gods, where do you buy those illusion spells? And you’re right. You’re too old for Ishkr. What are you doing tonight?”
He smoothed his hair back, and Onieva turned to someone for support. But Earlia just grinned.
“Aren’t you Saliss of Light’s cousin? Ishkr said you do alchemy too. Are you half as good as he is?”
Half as—Onieva bristled.
“You could say I’m even better than Saliss—in a fight.”
That might have been a mistake. Everyone was shocked, despite having seen her at the Trial of Blades, but Elia Arcsinger half-nodded slowly. Hard to hide from another Named-rank’s eyes, even Elia. Earlia blinked, then she glanced at Ishkr.
“In that case, Ishkr, do your charm thing and I’ll bless this union. And then get Onieva to hang around the next time the Goblin King shows up.”
Madness. They were all mad. Onieva wanted to laugh and cry, and she had the craziest urge to tell them who she was on her bad days. Maybe they’d act like Ishkr…?
She was too afraid. Her tail drooped slightly, and Ishkr saw it. He eyed his audience, then put an arm around Onieva. She blinked up at him as he spoke.
“I think she’s the most beautiful Drake I’ve ever met. The highest-levelled, the most dangerous—I’d like to get to know her. But she’s trying to run away. Respectfully, I’d like to chase her and try to win her over. You can’t court her, Todi.”
The Gnoll grinned around the inn as Onieva felt the oddest thing happen to her. For the first time in…she turned bright red. She said not a word as she blushed from head to toe, and Captain Todi laughed as Peggy cheered with Earlia, and some of the Antinium clapped.
“Oh, fine. But just for you, Ishkr.”
The Gold-rank adventurer bowed from his table, and Ishkr turned to Onieva. A question was in his eyes. A true…what a terrifying expression. Earnesty, a hurt for her, for his sister, and a true longing. Maybe he was serious.
What a fool.
“You’ll regret this, Ishkr Silverfang.”
“Why? If everything you told me is true, how are you any worse than any other crazy, high-level person? If you believe in what you said, and I believe you, then there’s nothing to fear but you not liking me.”
She tried to poke holes in his logic. For something in her said it must be flawed, but he had picked up a move or two from the Relc or Menolit book of flirting. Because he had a pawed hand under her chin and tried to get her to meet his eyes. He was bending down for a kiss when he stopped.
Found something alarming. Something to break him out of his damned course of romance. Onieva Oliwing was saved from a disastrous kiss and closed her eyes in relief.
Finally, he’d come to his s—
Ishkr pushed his fingers into the side of her throat and jumped.
“Your heart is racing! Onieva, are you well?”
He’d felt her heartbeat going insanely fast. The Drake saw him reaching for a healing potion, and then she had to laugh. Throw her head back and laugh and admit…she wanted to love and be loved.
That she could have it without it being a disaster or hiding who she was.
What a thought.
 
——
 
When Onieva returned to Mirn’s place, he was pacing up and down the bar. This was far too long. He almost grabbed a club and went out to find her when the doors swung open and Onieva came back.
“Did he—”
Ishkr appeared next to Onieva, and the question froze on Mirn’s tongue. He saw the two had linked arms. And that Onieva was practically pulling Ishkr along, unwilling to let go of him, and glancing at a magical timepiece she’d put on her wrist.
Suddenly counting every second she had left until she had to sleep and leave. The Gnoll was peering around with interest and a wariness—not for himself, but for something he had to keep secret, but he kept glancing at Onieva as if she were something fascinating, a bit confusing or disturbing, but alluring.
Mirn drank all this in in one moment, and his next sentence exploded out of his mouth before he could stop himself.
“You lucky bitch. How dare you?”
He half-meant it as Onieva grinned at him, but she had the grace to appear a bit embarrassed as she untangled herself from Ishkr and came over.
“Okay, maybe you were right and it was a tiny bit self-sabotaging.”
“A tiny bit? You kept telling me to hit you!”
Mirn closed his eyes. He put a claw over Onieva’s mouth, then tried to get her in a headlock.
“You are going to tell me everything. Or maybe I should have—Ishkr, hello. We meet at last, properly. Welcome to my bar, such as it is. We’re opening in an hour or two. You two are welcome to stay, and you’re going to tell me how this didn’t become another tragedy, Onieva.”
He needed to hear it all and take notes. But just to hear it. He was so jealous and happy for her…Ishkr glanced up.
“I heard you serve terrible drinks.”
“Is that all you told him?”
Mirn was vaguely outraged, but Ishkr eyed the bar and limited selection of alcohols.
“I could help serve.”
“Ishkr! There’s no need for that. You and I have a date, anyways. The full works. We’ll tell Mirn everything, and Ishkr needs to be caught up to date on, well, everything…”
You told him? Mirn raised his brows, and Onieva’s shrug and smile said it all. He was more impressed.
A non-Turnscale who didn’t flinch or blink? No wonder it had worked. But then Ishkr’s sister…Mirn smiled at the Gnoll, though he’d be watching for warning signs. He nodded as Onieva went on.
“—So only for a bit! He does make better drinks than the piss you swill, Mirn. You were in the Alchecorps. How the hell did you never learn to mix…well, that’s the problem. He can mix an alchemical flask even in battle, but he just stirs everything up fast, even if he follows the recipe. Nothing fancy. It’s like second-nature to him.”
Mirn scowled as she made fun of his old habits from the army. Then he saw her tail snake around the Gnoll’s somewhat damaged left boot and sighed.
Oh, this was so much worse than a bad breakup. Now she realized this actually might work…he hoped it didn’t affect her focus.
But for the moment, the [Protector] did what he did to all couples who came here, whether together or by chance. He pulled every trick he had to make his dingy bar a place for magic and wonder. Even for a night.
“She’s one-of-a-kind, you know.”
He told Ishkr that when Onieva went to use the restroom. The Gnoll nodded, and Mirn continued, polishing a mug.
“Hurt her and I’ll hurt you. But you knew that. And if you two ever split on reasonable terms—I’m free as a [Jailbreaker].”
He blew a kiss at the Gnoll and saw Ishkr jump and stammer, but he didn’t flinch away. Mirn grinned to himself.
Well, just maybe, this might work.
 
——
 
Onieva had had nights that she wanted to last forever before. But this one…she treasured this one.
She had never wished more for one of Erin’s [Immortal Moments]. From start to finish, she wished she could have lingered there an eternity. Because it was not just realizing she was allowed to continue being attracted to this Gnoll.
Not just him wanting to give her, even with Saliss, a chance. It was…showing him around the Turnscale bar. Seeing him speaking respectfully to Mirn, even a few older Turnscales the [Protector] introduced him to, and Ishkr listening politely.
A look of determination she recognized settling over his face. Of realizing that they might have more than a lover on their hands, someone who mattered.
A friend to more than just Mirn and Onieva.
That…was almost as heady as the romance, and there was plenty of that. Hope and relief crushed against the knowledge that tomorrow, life was going to suck.
There was nothing so powerful as a moment that could not last. So she refused to let go of it. Even when it was past midnight, she refused to even consider the possibility of sleep. And Ishkr, responsible Ishkr, was right there with her, just as unwilling to part.
Well, she didn’t have to tell anyone all the things they did or got up to, some of which would have written new chapters in the Antinium’s Book of Carnal Intercourse. But they were also running across two cities as she pointed out things only Saliss was supposed to know and laughed with him. Running through her potions to keep Onieva breathing just a moment more.
Happiness, ever-fleeting, was a kiss stolen on a flight of stairs as passersby whistled or laughed at the couple—the ordinary couple allowed to love in the open like anyone else.
A moment’s normality. A word of acceptance.
…And a bit of poo from a jar lobbed into someone’s food from over fifty feet away, through a window off of a roof. Onieva was a throwing-expert beyond even Erin, after all. And then…
And then…
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights awoke, and he had gotten all of fifteen minutes of sleep. He uncurled himself from his desk, where he’d lain down, and was glad.
Glad—he’d seen Ishkr off at the inn. For waking up next to the Gnoll would have been unbearable. Both for Saliss and perhaps for Ishkr. Either way, he feared it.
Back to hating himself.
Back to wrongness.
And back to sleep-deprivation. A dark mood threatened to wash over Saliss as he counted the three vials he had left. As he faced the New Lands and his journey, because all of him ached to stay.
However, like the purple flame he still kept burning in his personal study, the Drake touched his chest and felt a spark of it.
Happiness. Despite all the challenges he had. His weariness, his fears, his neverending battles, he had taken a piece of it, and it remained.
That put a smile on his face.
It lasted until he had to depart, and even then, it wasn’t the flying that dragged him down. Nor the journey unto death, the great distance, or the certainty the world would change if he found what he was looking for.
No, the thing that got Saliss down was just the company.

10.47 S (Pt. 2) (2025-10-22)

“Atteeeeeennnnnshiooon! 1st General Edellein, prepared for departure, sir!”
“Command is prepped for takeoff! Wyvern Wing One ready to fly!”
“Strategist Esor has reported in, sir! Ancillary civilians all accounted for!”
It was like the military were trying to out-shout each other. Saliss stuffed some beeswax in his earholes as he watched the shiny Pallassian [Soldiers] with their puffed-out chests cavorting around the new leader of Pallass’ military.
General Edellein.
All things considered, it could be worse, Saliss supposed.
…It could have been Senator Errif in charge. Or a Creler. You had to hand it to Edellein, there were possibly as many as five people worse suited for command in the world. The worst part was that Saliss saw why he was here. It had this dreadful logic to it.
Chaldion was out, comatose, and Pallass had been too used to him calling the shots. It had meant they lost their decision-making capabilities. So they deferred to the things that made sense but Chaldion had always called ‘traps of poor logic’. It was one of the lessons that Saliss had taken to heart and thought the old man had been right about, even after he’d grown up and seen the world.
The traps of poor logic were a belief in seniority, that age should be a metric of capability. The same for likeability, in some senses. A [General] should be able to command respect, but if you judged them based on popular support, you would get what you used as your criteria: a social general versus one who was best at commanding or winning wars.
Edellein was a product of these factors. He was a senior [General] who was well-connected in both the military and politics. He could lead a battle and dance in social engagements, and he was the wrong Drake to lead Pallass.
His best use was in 4th Army as a political [General] who could read the air and fight decently in the battleground of Drake-city conflict. That was where Chaldion had kept him.
Unfortunately…the disasters that had struck Pallass had propelled Edellein to the top. Thrissiam Blackwing would have been a far better leader, but the Goblin Lord Reiss had killed him.
In the doing, he hurt Pallass far more than the actual casualties in battle. If Thrissiam had lived, a number of poor choices and events might have gone differently.
Same for Zel. Same for so many.
So, Saliss was in a bad mood as he watched Edellein parading around the flight area where Wyverns were readying themselves for takeoff. It was a mess, literally and figuratively.
Edellein wanted a show. He’d already thrown a parade to announce that Pallass’ army would be taking to the New Lands in force to secure a huge spot for the City of Inventions. It was his way of distancing himself from the disaster of the Goblin King as well. His seat was precarious; Saliss wasn’t surprised he’d clawed his way back from being court-martialed and demoted, but if Edellein could get out of the city and focus everyone on the New Lands, people would forget he’d ordered Shirka into fighting Goblinhome and all the hell that had occurred.
Because of this, there wasn’t exactly a huge crowd to see Edellein off. He was flying after the ground forces, and that was fine, right? Only, this was his first big campaign. So of course, everyone was wearing full shining armor, and they were making a ceremony of this. But Edellein hadn’t thought the entire thing out.
Picture the scene. A bunch of Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda crowded together on a flight platform. Already, you had less space than you wanted. Cram in a choir to sing the anthem, some [Senators] who were up early and phoning in their speeches, and it was a stuffy mess…before you factored in the Wyverns.
Wyverns; temperamental beasts. Sensitive for all they were mean as hell. They did not like the commotion and were doing what monsters did when stressed.
Shitting. Giant piles of poo were being smeared around on the flight deck as poor [Cleaners] and underlings tried to clear it away, but you needed a strong water spell or a cart for that. That was General Edellein’s flaw to Saliss.
He could lead, he could read a room, he wasn’t substandard in those areas as a [General], but he lacked Chaldion’s ruthless genius. He didn’t think about the Wyvern poop. And that meant this might be a bad expedition.
Not that Saliss was in the military. He was just the Named-rank, outside the chain of command but necessary. The Drake stood there, unmoving, as Edellein finally snapped. He coughed into a handkerchief, glancing at the poo befouling the air, and called out.
“Alright, alright, let’s get moving! Strategist Esor, are you flying with the Wyverns or independently? I want us at the muster point in three days!”
He strode along, shaking hands with [Senators] wishing him well, clapping the officers he knew on the shoulders.
“Take care of the city for me, General Forwek. General Shirka, as you were. Wikem, I’ll bring you back a souvenir…and that’s everyone loaded up. Except for—where’s Saliss?”
There were a lot of civilians needed for an operation like this, but most didn’t have the rank to get a Wyvernback ride to the New Lands. Edellein turned, and Saliss offered him a salute.
“General Whatsyourface, sir! Ready to fly!”
Edellein’s mouth dropped open, and General Forwek, 3rd Army, now in charge of Pallass’ defense, snorted before he managed to control himself.
Saliss had beeswax in his earholes, and he’d added two noseplugs. And an eyemask, just because he also resented having to stare at things as well.
Edellein’s brows shot together, and he took a breath as Saliss lowered the eyemask to get a gauge on his reaction. Then he forced a smile.
“Adventurer Saliss, I’m so pleased you’re being reasonable about your service to Pallass…get on board the Wyverns. You were in the army once; kindly remember how it goes?”
“Yes, sir, I can do that, sir! Left foot goes in the left boot, right foot in the right boot! It’s a difficult thing to master, but that’s what boot camp is for. I’m amazed we get so many fine [Soldiers] out of there each year!”
Edellein’s jaw muscles twitched, and he wisely ignored Saliss. The other [Soldiers] were trying to keep their faces straight as well; Saliss turned.
“Hey, Forwek, Wikem. General Shirka.”
He nodded at her, and the straight-faced [General] who’d been staring ahead at parade rest finally focused on someone and nodded to him.
“Adventurer Saliss. Best of luck on your expedition.”
She seemed tired. He wondered how many [Soldiers] of 2nd Army she’d buried or attended the funerals of. Or how many notices she’d had to deliver to families.
Forwek and Wikem didn’t know how to treat the disgraced Shirka in public. They nodded to Saliss, wishing him luck, and Wikem eyed Saliss’ nudity before snapping his eyes up. He wasn’t always in the city, so Saliss disconcerted him.
“Best, uh, best of luck, Adventurer Saliss. I trust Edellein will bring back a trove of wealth to the city. If 4th Army, I mean, 1st Army needs any backup, we’ll come running.”
“Hopefully all of 1st Army isn’t needed, General. But knowing Edellein, I’m sure we’ll find a way to need both your armies as backup.”
Wikem frowned at Saliss, but forbore reply. Saliss just turned to the Wyverns as Edellein got on the lead one. Bringing an army to colonize the New Lands of Izril. Classic Drake move. He met Shirka’s eyes once and wondered if she knew what he was thinking.
Dead gods, just let the settlers do it. When you brought an army, you were searching for a fight. But she said nothing, even if she could read his own thoughts. She just nodded at him.
“I’m sure your expertise will be needed, Alchemist Saliss.”
It was genuine and honest as statements went, so Saliss paused and pulled his eyemask up. He gave Shirka a direct gaze and responded to her in a way that made the other [Generals] shift.
“Assuming they know how to use me, I’ll do my best. Chaldion wouldn’t have sent Duln. He’d have sent civilians, not [Soldiers]. He did send civilians; they’re in caravans right now, and I bet the Eyes of Pallass are sprinkled all amongst them, eating grass like everyone else.”
The invocation of Chaldion’s name, the rebuke of Edellein in the open, made everyone go silent, but Saliss didn’t care. Politics was one thing. Intelligence another, and he did not like this job.
Dead gods, he wished he were still in Ishkr’s…no, he wished Onieva were in Ishkr’s arms. Part of Saliss mentally recoiled from the very idea of him and Ishkr in any private moment.
They were one and the same, but…argh, it hurt. The Drake’s good mood was being rapidly eaten away by a lack of sleep and a surplus of military. He rolled his shoulders, then saw Shirka studying him.
“I, uh, told an old story about us yesterday, General Shirka. Hope you don’t mind.”
The confession popped out of his mouth before he could help himself. She was one of the people Saliss had problems lying to. Shirka’s brows rose. She studied Saliss without showing her own cards.
Just like she’d been taught. Well, he’d taught her now and then—the other officers blinked, confused. Shirka just nodded her head, though.
“It’s never been secret, Alchemist. I’m sure it was meaningful.”
She scratched idly at her side, then smiled. Her teeth glinted.
“I look better than I used to.”
Her melted baby teeth were now sharp adult ones. And her scars…Saliss exhaled.
“You’re great, General. Wasted on Pallass and us. I’ll try to teach Edellein to be half as ready for his post as you are.”
Teach him? Again, there was a temptation to laugh or reprimand Saliss. But Shirka just tilted her head.
“Interesting. I’d pay for such lessons.”
“Eh, these ones might suck. The old man used to teach his students the same kind of way. He taught all the Drakes like that. You’re lucky you never got such moments. If he were still in charge, it’d probably be midnight and you’d all be riding out covertly to the New Lands. He’d probably have some [Soldiers] there. Just not an army.”
Covert deployments, hiding troop reshuffling in the paperwork…all to fool his allies as well as his enemies. There was something honest about Edellein’s plans, at least.
“And you, Saliss of Lights? Would he have sent you?”
Forwek inquired mildly. His eyes focused on Saliss, and he was old enough to remember a time when Saliss had been in the army. Chaldion’s heir. Corporal Oliwing, 8th Army…
Ah, memories. Saliss turned on his heel and walked with military correctness to the Wyvern.
“If the Old Man were in charge and he didn’t need me anywhere else, I’d have been there before the water dried.”
 
——
 
The flight was not interesting. Saliss didn’t nap, given that he had to strap in with a bunch of surly [Soldiers] trying not to vomit over the wings. Once you’d flown Wyvernback a few times, it lost its appeal.
Pegasi were far nicer rides, but only Oteslia had them. In lieu of a book to read—he got airsick—and because this was an important expedition, Saliss talked with the only person whose opinion he could trust.
Esor. The [Strategist] wasn’t Chaldion, but he had been trained by the Old Man, and he should have been in charge. But given that Edellein had upstaged him…he lacked what Chaldion had, the personality and charisma. Well, he was also just not a Drake.
“What’s the latest from the New Lands, hmm, Esor?”
The Garuda was flying at the moment, panting with the effort of keeping pace with the Wyverns, even in their slipstream. He called back as he flew next to Saliss.
“Well…it’s not pretty. Huge floods of people from the eastern approach means there have been conflicts and thefts. Bottlenecks, whereas penetration into the heart of the New Lands is slow given most people’s speeds. There’s smaller inroads from the Drowned Folk and half-Elven colonies, but nothing major. The biggest footholds would be Chandrarian ships striking along the southern coast—and the Terandrian fleet and Iron Vanguard.”
“Oh, landed, have they?”
Saliss knew it had been a while since the battle at sea, but he hadn’t kept tabs on the mangled Terandrian fleet. Esor replied breathily.
“What ships that didn’t turn around and weren’t sunk made landings on the New Lands, yes. More are coming, but the Iron Vanguard has landed in good order and have clashed with Terandrian kingdoms in relentless naval battles.”
“Dullahans hold a grudge. What’s new? So we have a bunch of colonists, more coming, and several major powers. Is that why Edellein’s bringing out the army?”
The [Strategist] grabbed hold of the Wyvern’s saddle, too tired to fly any longer. He gulped down some water and splashed the [Soldier] behind him with most of it as the wind blew it away.
“Excuse me! Partly, Saliss. The Walled Cities want a strong foothold in the New Lands, as you might imagine. Officially, Edellein is part of a cooperative initiative to reinforce the cities on the eastern edge of the New Lands. Build up forts in case of, well, war.”
Make a nice checkpoint into old Izril in case anyone wanted to start something. Well, that would take an army. Saliss nodded.
“And…? You don’t call me up for that kind of job.”
“No indeed, we have other adventuring teams as well. Even other Named-rank adventurers from Pallass and the other Walled Cities have bid their own adventurers. I have a list—ah—”
Esor pulled the list out and watched it vanish into the air. Saliss shrugged.
“If I know them, I know them. Why me, Esor?”
He leaned forwards, and the Garuda was tough enough not to balk in the face of Saliss’ yellow stare.
“I wanted you, Saliss. So did Edellein, though he won’t admit it. We need the best Named-rank we have, and you are one of the best all-rounders. An [Alchemist] is invaluable in the New Lands. Yes, the official line is that we’re fortifying the border and simply claiming lands like everyone else. Unofficially…General Edellein’s priority, which I agree with, is finding a way into the Crossroads of Izril. The Horns of Hammerad prove that doors exist. Securing the old Walled Cities there and any valuable intelligence or Relics is 1st Army’s priority objective.”
Ah, and there it was. Saliss closed his eyes as he saw his task. So not just the seith he’d put in his report. It always went back to Drakes and cities.
The Horns of Hammerad. But for them, he might not be on this dratted mission. However, they’d reminded the Walled Cities of the old legends in the Crossroads, and the idea that someone else would get to ‘their’ ancestral homes was probably driving all the High Commands nutty.
Small things. Events that overlapped and affected each other. Goblin Lord. Horns of Hammerad. The Wandering Inn.
I’m going to miss that place. I’m going to hate this, being surrounded by military idiots for months on end. Saliss’ expression must have told Esor how he was feeling because the Garuda lowered his voice above the howl of wind.
“I’m actually surprised you agreed to come without a fight, Saliss. Normally, I’d expect to have to beg and twist your arm. Chaldion had a lot of comments about, uh…”
He would remember how things were. Saliss opened his eyes and snapped back quietly.
“You know why I’m here, Esor. So long as Edellein remembers why I agree to do anything for Pallass, we’ll be nice. But he’s getting on my nerves. Remember that.”
Esor swallowed. Saliss’ glare was for Edellein, and the truth was just that. Saliss was participating in this stupid venture because Pallass needed him, and because if he didn’t, life got harder for Turnscales in Pallass. Of course, Edellein was about as open-minded as Chaldion, and he might be only too happy to push Saliss. In which case, Saliss would push right back, and they’d have fun counting how many Watch officers broke bones…but Saliss didn’t have the time.
If there is seith in the New Lands, I have to find it. So everyone has a reason to be here.
Again—he just hated the company. Saliss settled back in his seat as Esor began flying again. The biggest downside to all this was really just that Edellein was in charge. He didn’t know how to lead Pallass, and he was leading Pallass right now. Every time he made a mistake, people would die. And oh, there were a lot of mistakes you could make. Just like he’d told Shirka, Saliss supposed…
He’d have to teach Edellein a lesson or two.
 
——
 
Contrary to what you might expect, General Edellein liked being on campaign. Even after an entire day of flying, he rolled out of his bedroll, emerged from his admittedly sumptuous tent, and was in planning-mode over breakfast at dawn.
He liked having his command staff around him at such times, and 1st Army, formerly 4th Army, were a honed unit, an extension of his will. Naturally, it wasn’t just 1st Army on this expedition; he’d asked for other soldiers and made a more rounded force with specialists for this campaign.
The only chinks in the smoothly-turning cogwheels of his army were two individuals. Esor and Saliss.
Neither one quite fit in. Esor had an authority second only to Edellein, and unlike the [General]’s subordinates, he would vocally object to Edellein’s decisions if he disagreed, a practice the [General] hated but Chaldion had encouraged. And Saliss?
Saliss was Saliss. Edellein knew he needed the damn Drake, but, privately, he wished he could have had anyone else.
“Don’t we have another Named-rank Adventurer for this campaign, Esor?”
Edellein snapped as he saw Saliss, still nude, munching on some cereal at the mess table. Esor raised his brows.
“Of course, General Edellein. Glasiaad the Tome Magus should be meeting us at the rendezvous point.”
Edellein brightened up at once.
“Glasiaad, of course! Excellent Drake; have you met him? There’s someone I can count on. Once we get to the rendezvous point and meet up with the other Walled Cities, I may have him stick with 1st Army. Let Saliss…do whatever he does until we need him.”
That meant he could get rid of Saliss and not have to tolerate him hanging about. You needed a Named-rank for monsters…Esor gave him one of those annoying, dubious expressions.
“Saliss is the Named-rank with the most utility and experience adventuring and in military combat, General Edellein. I would weigh him over Glasiaad.”
“Well, that is your opinion, but personality matters as much as competency. If we have a Wyvern attack, I will of course use Saliss, but in day-to-day matters, I’ll take Glasiaad.”
Edellein shot back, and Esor closed his beak on a reply. It was one of Edellein’s younger [Strategists], a young Drake woman, who raised a claw.
“General, I don’t know Glasiaad. I thought Pallass had only one Named-rank: Saliss. Was I mistaken?”
Edellein smiled; he liked to be the teacher and educate his subordinates, so the [General] grabbed a bowl of hardboiled eggs and salted one liberally before taking a bite and replying.
“Ah, well, that’s true. Glasiaad, for example, isn’t in Pallass; you’d only see him visiting. But he is ‘ours’; he’s in one of the cities under the Pallassian aegis. By that standard, we have more than just Saliss. No Walled City would rely on just one Named-rank! For instance, Manus isn’t sending Zeter Sixswords to the New Lands, but I think they’re sending Heidan the Fireball, who doesn’t live in the city proper.”
“I see, of course, sir.”
Edellein smiled at the [Strategist].
“You’ll like him. He’s a bit elderly, but a capable [Wizard]; as you might expect, he has a number of spellbooks he uses to cast magic. Pure sorcery like you’d hear in those Tales of Adventure and Woe. I’ve seen him call down a blizzard in seconds!”
Honestly, Edellein didn’t see why Esor would weigh Saliss higher than Glasiaad. They had [Alchemists], and even if Saliss was the best one, a [Mage] had so much utility and power…well, it was at that precise moment that Saliss strolled over with his breakfast and slid himself into a seat.
“Did I hear old Glasiaad is in town? I haven’t seen the bastard in years! We’ll have to catch up. So, General Edellein, mind if I ask a question or two about my duties while we’re hunting for the Crossroads of Izril and exploring?”
Everyone stirred, and Edellein glared at Esor; Saliss should not have known about their true objective! He addressed Saliss with a forced smile.
“You’ll be briefed fully on each phase of the command, Adventurer Saliss. First, we are linking up with other Walled Cities. A chain of command will have to be established.”
Hopefully with him at the top or near the top, but he understood that Manus, Oteslia, and Zeres would all be at this rally, with Salazsar and Fissival to come. It might be hard to be in charge of everything…Saliss raised his brows.
“Oh, so are we considering other Walled Cities to be in alliance for this campaign?”
“No, not as of yet. We don’t even consider them non-aggressive yet.”
Esor replied before Edellein, and the [General] nearly objected before he recognized the terminology. Saliss was using military jargon and querying the other Walled City’s status…but the way he worded it made Edellein itch a bit.
“Our foes in the New Lands are monsters, potentially foreign powers—not other Drakes, Saliss!”
He snapped, and Saliss just blinked at him. Calm.
“Whatever you order, I’ll follow, General Edellein. I just need to know their status. I’m going with ‘neutral’ for now. Let me know if that changes. Where is our rendezvous point? I’d like to see our approach into the New Lands.”
Someone found a map and indicated to Saliss where the rendezvous point was, well clear of the New Land’s border. From there they’d march or fly in—while Saliss asked questions, Edellein leaned over to Esor.
“What the hell did he just say? Neutral?”
Esor whispered back.
“It’s how Saliss is viewing the other Walled Cities’ forces, sir. He is our Named-rank. He’ll be watching for potential saboteurs or assassins or other threats from them. It’s, ah, more like how an Eye of Pallass would view the other Walled Cities, even if we are mustering together under a tentative alliance.”
Like an Eye of Pallass? Edellein eyed Saliss, a bit disturbed. He had read the Drake’s file and knew Saliss had done everything from battling [Assassins] to running reconnaissance on the Antinium to participating in wars, but the silly naked [Alchemist] seemed sharper than Edellein remembered.
And then he turned in his seat.
“Alright, so only Glasiaad as a fellow Named-rank for backup unless we partner with another Walled City. Hopefully we can get some independent Named-ranks with us, and maybe some of the Gold-rankers can hold water. How many Archmage cards do I have for this campaign?”
Now he’d lost Edellein. The [General] knew Saliss didn’t mean just cards—he shot a glance at Esor, who cleared his throat.
“The Assembly of Crafts hasn’t approved any extraneous devices, Saliss. And unfortunately, they do have the authority to withhold them…”
“No Archmage cards?”
“You’re going to have to explain that particular idea, Saliss. I don’t know the term. Is it something you’re familiar with from Duln?”
Edellein frowned at Saliss and saw blank expressions on the rest of his command. Saliss gave him a toothy smile which wasn’t condescending, but it still rankled Edellein until the Drake spoke.
“Sorry, the old man—Grand Strategist Chaldion—liked to call them that. Archmage cards, General. Trump cards if everything goes Creler-shaped. Like…strike spells from Pallass’ walls. A Tier 7 scroll. A battalion of Wyvern-riders, that sort of thing. If a disaster happens, you point and it dies. Do we not have one, Esor? What about the Potion of Lake’s Freeze I made? You’ve got to have that!”
A Potion of…Esor just spread his wing-hands, shooting Edellein a sideways glance.
“Not approved by the Assembly, Saliss.”
“So we have no contingencies?”
The Drake’s voice rose, and Edellein cut in, smooth.
“Ah, I see the misapprehension. Saliss, 1st Army has our own backups and failsafes. Rest assured, we have your tail covered. I’ll give you an appraisal of such matters once we coordinate with the other Walled Cities.”
Saliss paused, tilted his head, and sat back. He dipped his spoon in the cereal and began to chew.
“Hm. Okay. Let me know if I can get a Tier 7 scroll on backup. I like those. There’s always a huge list of warnings before they fire off.”
Did that mean he’d seen Tier 7 scrolls activated? Edellein hadn’t even laid eyes on one—even during the Antinium Wars, he’d only been issued Tier 6 scrolls to combat the Black Tide! Then again, how many such weapons existed even in a Walled City’s armory? He smiled and nodded, then hissed at Esor.
“How many failsafes do we have, and why am I not aware of them?”
“The Assembly of Crafts, sir…I noted all of the items needing ratification from them with Grand Strategist Chaldion no longer able to give permission for their use.”
Edellein pointed at one of his [Strategists] and beckoned. Then he spoke.
“I will dictate a [Message] to Senator Errif before takeoff. I want to review that list, and I will inform the Assembly I require a few of these—failsafes—just in case.”
“It might be difficult to get them to approve it, General.”
Esor vouchsafed, and Edellein ground his teeth, well imagining how hard it would be to get the [Senators] to all vote to release Relic-class items to his command.
“Well, look into the other thing Saliss mentioned. Wyvern squads. Actually, just pull up a list of all the failsafes Chaldion used, and I’ll pick from that!”
He was unhappy when Esor consulted his bag of holding and pulled out a file that Edellein vaguely recognized as having skimmed before. This time, he took it and was reading it before they mustered for takeoff.
Edellein was busy giving orders that morning and was thusly relieved when Saliss didn’t cause any more trouble. The thoughtless Drake could be a complete pain, and Edellein didn’t have time for Saliss as he tried to pull the slow levers of Pallassian bureaucracy to get what he needed.
Failsafes. Dead gods, some of them were extreme. They didn’t need…well, you didn’t have to use it. Maybe a few just to be safe. There were elements to his role that Edellein hadn’t been aware of. It was a good chance of luck that idiot Saliss had brought it up.
 
——
 
Two more days of Edellein’s company left Saliss rather annoyed by the time they reached the rendezvous point. It was as annoying as he thought it’d be; from afar it was nothing more than a bunch of tents laid out in neat formation, Wyverns circling lower, and the shine of armor and weapons from below.
Ancestors, that’s a full regiment from Manus down there. I would have thought that the City of War wasn’t interested in the New Lands. What poor idiot got given this duty?
The psychology of each Walled City had to be taken into account in matters like these. No Walled City would ignore the value of the New Lands, but they’d be cautious about over-spending to secure the New Lands when colonists would do it for them. Forces to build up the western border? Sure. Teams to explore the Crossroads of Izril? Absolutely.
However, Edellein was the one pushing for Pallass to make such a big entry into the New Lands, and by the looks of it, Pallass’ colors were the most manifold on the muster field. As far as Saliss saw, both Manus and Oteslia had sent less than half of the army Pallass had, and he suspected it went for their leadership too.
You’d send someone capable for the New Lands, but maybe not the best. Dead gods, it could even be a punishment; digging a fort and having to shepherd soldiers around and avoid stabbing civilians? More than one [General] would do all they could not to get this job unless they saw potential glory in it.
Instead of paying for an entire army’s rations in the field, it would be better to have someone else share the burden, like, say, another Walled City, hence this collaborative attempt. Especially given the fact that the New Lands were going to be difficult to grow anything in and be draining mana from everything.
A fact that Saliss was aware of and not looking forward to. His potions were almost all magic-based, and while some wouldn’t lose power from a mana-drain effect, a good number would, not to mention his personal gear.
He’d taken precautions, but it added to the expense of this venture, and as they circled lower on the Wyverns, Edellein was clearly feeling the pressure.
“One regiment? What is Manus playing at? I expected Oteslia to skimp out, but we’re conducting a campaign here, not a training exercise! And they’ve occupied the central camp area—take us down, and they’d better have more reinforcements coming!”
His voice over the speaking stone was piqued, and Saliss rolled his eyes as the Wyverns descended fast. One of the [Soldiers] groaned; a Gnoll was appearing rather sick, and Saliss reached over.
“Tonic for the stomach?”
They were dropping so fast the Gnoll clung to his seat, shaking his head. Saliss shrugged, tucked the vial into his bag of holding, and then saw a flash from below.
“Incoming spell! Dodge!”
His roar into the speaking stone made both the Wyvern he was on and the one ahead of him roll to the side. Saliss’ world rotated, and he saw something bright flash past his head; then heard the Gnoll vomiting profusely. He was too busy scanning for—
“More spells! Light arrows, evade, evade!”
“Who the hell is firing at—”
General Edellein’s entry into the rendezvous point went badly. The flight of Wyverns broke as more [Light Arrows] flew past them; tiny spells, but still enough to make the Wyverns dive and dodge in dizzying displays that caused the untrained [Soldiers] to puke their guts out and cling on for dear life.
Why were they under attack? The answer came after six more seconds of stomach-lurching midair acrobatics.
“Incoming Wyvern flight, you are entering into Manus’ airspace without identification codes! Halt immediately or you will be fired upon!”
“Manus.”
Saliss muttered and heard an explosion of rage from Edellein’s speaking stone. Typical. Even if they could see Pallass’ Wyverns and knew exactly who was coming, the City of War was throwing its tail around.
To be fair, this kind of thing might have happened even with Chaldion in charge; Saliss could just imagine the old man shouting curses over the command line. Edellein did much the same, roaring into the speaking stone.
“This is General Edellein of Pallass’ 1st Army! Do you think we’re a pack of wild Wyverns or rogue giant seagulls? Your warning shots have my entire command in disarray!”
Silence, then a distinctly obdurate tone.
“Wyvern flight, please transmit identification codes.”
I guess we know who wants to pretend they’re in charge of this one. Or maybe it was just classic Drake pettiness, stubbornness, and love of bureaucracy. Saliss rolled his eyes as Esor took over, transmitting a string of codewords, and Saliss saw the Wyverns reforming.
They were right overhead the anti-air group, which was tracking them with a portable ballista and several [Battlemages]. As his Wyvern flapped its wings, uttering protests at its strained muscles, Saliss drew alongside General Edellein. The Drake was incandescent.
“Those damn—this is unacceptable! We nearly lost one of our people when our Wyverns dove! Esor had to grab them midair!”
One of the younger [Strategists] was visibly shaking. Saliss eyed the broken straps; even with a good saddle, that was an all-too-common occurrence in the sky. He said nothing since Edellein had a right to his pique for once…until the [General] addressed him.
“Saliss! I want you to dislodge those idiots down below! Pallass won’t stand for this affront!”
The Drake’s head turned incredulously.
“You want me to deal with Manus’ forces?”
“Yes, are you deaf? Oteslia’s sending in their fliers as well—clear them out!”
Edellein barked back. Saliss just stared at him, then smiled tightly.
“If you’re sure.”
“Of course I’m sure. I’ll pay your damn bills—you’re on retainer; go!”
Esor twisted around in his seat with an expression of alarm.
“General Edellein, did you just—Saliss, no! That’s an order!”
But it was too late. Saliss had already thought about it, and he unbuckled his belt with a huge smile. The Gnoll [Soldier] behind him gave Saliss a look of pure horror and incredulity as the Drake stood up on the Wyvern’s back, untethered. Even the rest of Edellein’s command seemed shocked. Saliss just flicked the stomach-tonic at the Gnoll behind him.
“Yes sir, General Edellein! You might want to steady your stomach after all, kid. You’re going to need to swing that sword today.”
He took two steps forwards, met Edellein’s eyes as the [General] blinked—and then dove over the edge of the Wyvern’s back. Straight down, headfirst. Saliss gazed down at the tiny group of Manus’ anti-air forces below him.
Even as the wind began to howl in his earholes, he could hear Esor shrieking behind him.
 
——-
 
“Call him off!”
Esor dropped his speaking stone, leapt across the Wyvern’s back, and grabbed Edellein. He shook the Drake so hard that Edellein seized the pommel of the saddle for support.
“What? Have you gone mad, Esor? Unhand me! You do not give orders in—”
“You idiot, you’re about to start a war with Manus! Call Saliss off before he wipes them out!”
The Garuda’s shriek was almost like a bird’s, and the note of true terror froze Edellein.
“What? Don’t be mad, I told him to—”
He glanced down and saw the tiny shape of the plummeting Drake heading straight towards Manus’ forces. Which even Edellein had to admit was quite amazing to see. Saliss did deserve his Named-rank status. It was refreshingly…direct? Saliss normally never obeyed any order.
Except they were on campaign. Edellein remembered a story about one of only two times Saliss of Lights had ever gone to war. Esor’s voice had gone from a shrill to a piercing whisper.
“[Rapid Conversation]. Listen to me, General Edellein. Whatever you think you ordered, that is not the Saliss you know as a civilian. When you tell him to clear out a foreign force, he will do it. The moment he hits ground, every Drake and Gnoll below us will be dead. Call him off or this entire meeting point is going to turn into a warzone.”
Edellein met Esor’s gaze, and part of him expected the Garuda to burst into a grin and say it was a joke. Then he gazed down and fumbled for his speaking stone. Below him, he heard the same annoying operator’s voice speaking.
“Ah, Pallassian flight? We have full [Dangersense] alerts going off in our Air Denial force. Is there a monster in the area? Pallass?”
 
——
 
Saliss was maybe eighty feet from the ground, and he could see the Manus force below him now very clearly. They were taking cover, glancing right, left, and up at him as their [Dangersenses] went off. Even shielding themselves behind barrier spells, which was a good, sensible call.
Explosions tended not to care about barriers after they’d ripped them apart. The Drake was grinning, and he was dropping with annihilation in clawed hand.
The thing about [Dangersense] was that it worked on, well, real things. Sometimes, it just told you someone dangerous was in front of you and not to mouth off, but mostly, it based itself on real and present threats.
So yes, Saliss was thinking that it would be a quick way to rid Pallass of an incompetent [General]. The only cost was, what, a hundred or more [Soldiers] of Manus? In the grand scheme of things, that was cheap.
Sadly—he wasn’t that resolved, and he’d given Edellein enough time.
“Saliss, abort, abort! Do not engage—”
The Drake sighed. He should have thrown the vials. Then it would be too late…well, no. He could have used [Disable Friendly Fire] even at the last moment, which he did know, so he hadn’t thrown the vials. Waste of good alchemy that.
Fourteen feet—they were diving out of the way of—
Saliss crunched the Featherform Tonic in his mouth, activated the Airblast Potion on his chest, felt the kick of air blast him, and hit the ground. It still hurt even with his precautions, but it didn’t turn his bones to dust.
The explosion of dirt blew upwards, and Saliss heard cries, saw figures stumbling back, shielding their faces as they aimed weapons at him. Blind or not, Manus didn’t train you to drop your blades. He was already on his feet, dusting himself off.
“Intruder! Drop your—”
Saliss popped a Potion of Invisibility, drank just a sip, and then touched the speaking stone hanging next to his earhole as Edellein screamed at him.
“Saliss, Saliss!”
“Hey, General! First you tell me to kill everyone, then the next moment you don’t want that? I can never tell with you military types…alright, no one’s dead. Close thing, too; I was just about to explode them! I’m walking out of their formations. Tell them to calm down, would you?”
He strolled out of the camp as Drakes and Gnolls ran around trying to find him and flicked open a notepad.
Let’s see. So that was one Airblast Potion, a Potion of Featherbody, one Potion of Invisibility—he had to charge the full potion even if he only took a swig; that was just standard business practice for [Battle Alchemists]—and a combat drop…
Saliss did a quick sum, underlined the figure, and sent a [Message] to 1st Army’s [Quartermaster] with a note reminding them that he expected to be paid at the end of each week, not whatever pay cycle they had for [Soldiers]. My oh my, that was an expensive way to intimidate Manus, but who was he to question Edellein’s orders?
Saliss waved at the Wyverns as they landed, and he caught a distinctly disheveled Esor glaring daggers at him as he flew down.
“Just following orders, sir.”
The Named-rank saluted Esor as Edellein’s people gave him wide-eyed stares. The [General] himself appeared apoplectic, but there was an element of worry behind his eyes as he landed and started cursing out the Manus operators who’d started this mess. He met Saliss’ eyes once, then looked away.
Good.
They might be slow learners, but they were figuring it out. Saliss nodded at the Gnoll and the [Soldiers] who he’d been sharing the Wyvern with. Then he spat on the ground and walked away.
Ancestors, he hated it here.
 
——
 
In Saliss’ experience, Drakes played nicely after you scared the hell out of them and they thought they couldn’t effectively get back at you. There was something about the military mindset that fell back on protocol and rank once shouting and intimidation had failed.
Thus, Manus’ [General] was at the landing zone before Edellein had even disembarked, profuse with apologies. That Manus had actually sent a [General] was a surprise…until Saliss saw the grey in the Gnoll’s fur.
“Fortress General Rigrel, General Edellein. Normally, I hold Fort Filmres, but I’ve been tasked with keeping the elements of Manus’ forces in line for this expedition. What a disaster! I apologize for the idiots who fired those spells. It’s protocol, but I admire your restraint! If I had been present, this would never have occurred, you mark my words.”
The Gnoll looked like a retiree in Manus’ army. He didn’t have the military trim an acting [General] usually was expected to have, and Saliss’ suspicions were confirmed as he stood in the sun and covertly checked a map.
Fortress Filmres was not bordering the Antinium Hivelands. It occupied a more southwestern approach that had probably been good for coastal defense…before the New Lands popped up. Now, it was either more or less important depending on how you viewed it. Either way, Rigrel was an interesting pick from Manus.
He was more than willing to duck his head and soothe Edellein’s pique with profuse apologies. You would never catch Lulv or the top brass backing down—the Supreme General of Pallass snapped, red-faced.
“I’d like to know which officer caused this mess, General! I accept your apology; you were clearly uninformed.”
Rigrel nodded.
“Of course! Who’s the officer on duty?”
He spun and barked as Manus’ [Soldiers] stood with their backs straight, doing their best not to meet the eyes of Pallass’ forces. Saliss wondered how tight a ship Edellein ran. There might be brawls between the [Soldiers] over this, but they fought all the time anyways. He still didn’t quite have Edellein’s number. Idiot, yes, but what kind of idiot? They had flavors, like leavings at the bottom of a toilet bowl.
He saw an officer trot forwards, a Drake with white scales underneath his helmet. He began to salute, and General Rigrel waved a paw at him.
“Not you, the officer in charge! Where is he? Get me—”
The Gnoll cast around, then yanked the arm of a subordinate and muttered. The underling went running, and Saliss eyed the expression of pure confusion on the younger Drake’s face as he stepped back into line. However, they didn’t have to wait long; a figure came hurtling towards the landing field at a full sprint. Another Drake, though this one had greyish scales with maybe a hint of blue.
He was slamming a helmet onto his head as he skidded to a halt and threw a salute.
“Captain Lyssander reporting for duty, General!”
“Lyssander, you fool! Pallass’ Supreme General was nearly shot out of the skies on your watch!”
General Rigrel roared, and the [Captain] hesitated. Then he pivoted smoothly and saluted again.
“—It’s an inexcusable lapse on my part, General! I beg your forgiveness!”
Interesting. Saliss saw Edellein turn his wrath on the [Captain], who stood blank-faced, not even panting from his run.
“One would hope you have better insight on the battlefield, young man. Lyssander…I swear I know that name. Ah!”
He snapped his fingers.
“You were at the officer duels more than once! Comois used to square off against your cadets. Ah, Comois.”
The name clearly pained Edellein, and General Rigrel frowned.
“Isn’t that the promising young salamander in your army, Edellein? Where is he?”
“Dead. Murdered during the Trial of Blades.”
Edellein replied bleakly, and the Gnollish General tsked. He rested a hand on Edellein’s shoulder.
“When promising young blood passes…you never get used to it. Come, General Edellein, let’s put this nasty business behind us and welcome each other properly! I have a letter from the Dragonspeaker somewhere on my person, and I fancy we have met. I certainly heard of your name when I was active! A Blackwing’s always a threat; it never surprised me to hear you became Pallass’ 1st General. We’ll have a drink and toast your [Lieutenant]…Captain Lyssander!”
“Sir!”
“Your company will see to Pallass’ disembarkation and ensure no more accidents occur with our allies.”
“Yessir!”
The Drake stood straight as more [Soldiers] approached at a run. Saliss strolled past the unfortunate [Captain] as Pallass’ forces entered the rendezvous point. And Saliss idly wondered what the poor [Captain] had done to put himself at the top of General Rigrel’s shitlist.
 
——
 
Off-duty, Manus’ [Soldiers] were more than the military-minded freaks who marched everywhere and fought nonstop. Each Walled City had its own flavor in the military, and you got to contrast that when they mingled.
Right now it was Manus, elements of Oteslia’s forces, and Pallass all mixing about in a huge network of tents and buildings, the kind you got when any major force camped. Drakes being Drakes, it was organized enough; Saliss could use the signs to navigate the camp with ease.
The problem was he had no desire to do anything here. Consider the problem: he was a Named-rank adventurer. What could an army’s camp get him?
A lower-level adventurer might want gear repairs, to see what a [Quartermaster] would sell, avail themselves of services from one of Pallass’ [Battle Alchemists], or so on. Saliss was already prepped. He needed no intelligence, training, or supplies. So that left socialization.
Card games and gambling were traditional, you could buy some overpriced drinks and spend your pay, or just shoot the shit with [Soldiers]. Swap tales and hear what the brass was thinking.
That didn’t…work when you were a Named-rank. Saliss was already getting tons of stares from Manus’ [Soldiers]. They’d see him walking around naked, recoil or begin bawling him out, then realize who he was and shut up. The privileges of his status, again. But he wasn’t chummy with the officers either.
The Drake was walking around in a circle in the middle of camp, bored out of his mind, when Esor found him.
“Saliss, it looks like we’re waiting on elements from Oteslia by air, and Zeres is marching in within a day or two. Salazsar and Fissival won’t make it on time; the two forces are slowing each other down given the war between the cities. Negotiating a way not to kill each other on the way here. It appears the Walled Cities will be operating under a state of non-aggression and defensive coordination. No guaranteed alliance, unless General Edellein forges a pact on the spot. We’ll be marching towards the New Lands daily.”
Saliss kept walking in a circle, staring at the blue sky. Yonder lay the New Lands. He could almost taste them.
“Great, so it’s, what, a week to get to the New Lands? Wonderful. I should have slept for a week.”
Esor shrugged as he tried to follow Saliss around. The two were both aware they were being watched. Esor was a [Strategist] and the highest-ranking Garuda, already a rare species in the Walled Cities, and Saliss was, well, Saliss. More than one [Soldier] was eavesdropping, and Saliss was not bothering to keep his voice down. Esor was doing his best, but Saliss didn’t care.
“Saliss, I’ll try to get you sent to the New Lands as soon as I can, so you can get to work. But Manus and Oteslia are both hosting General Edellein. It would appear both cities would like an alliance of mutual cooperation.”
The [Alchemist] nodded. If he were to explain this to Octavia or someone else, he’d say it was simple. The Walled Cities were a pack of rats. Big ones who could fight hard, but they were well aware the New Lands were being contested by every power on the globe. Normally, each Walled City was the biggest rat around, and it’d bully anyone it could, including the other Walled Cities, but when they saw trouble, the cities always did this.
The defensive pact meant they wouldn’t step on each other’s tails. They’d share information, band together if someone attacked them—common sense stuff. But it also left the door open for one city to grab something valuable if they found it first. Sort of a ‘we’re on the same side but it’s still a race between us’ mentality.
What Oteslia, Manus, and probably the other cities wanted was to get in bed with Pallass and commit to a full alliance. Information-sharing, coordinated troop movements, again, because Pallass was spending the most on this campaign.
“Who’s Oteslia’s leader?”
“A [Wild General] Narrina. Gnoll. Oteslia’s mostly scouting and specialists, not a lot of [Soldiers] on the line. I think Zeres is pulling a rather large company of their marines up; Edellein’s interested in a pact with them, but General Rigrel has been very…flattering.”
Saliss snorted. Dragonspeaker Luciva was a canny leader. She’d probably written a letter glowing with praise for Edellein.
“So what you’re telling me is that everyone’s courting us. Probably because Chaldion’s out, so they have no way to know how we’ll jump.”
Chaldion would have had all this already set out in deals before they landed, but Edellein was different. Esor nodded, wings twitching. Saliss imagined it wasn’t fun trying to teach Edellein how to do things. He had little sympathy. The Drake glanced to the side and saw a group of four Gnolls and a Human whispering and pointing at him.
They’re not wearing any regular uniforms. Huh, adventuring team. But those two Gnolls have that military posture…Manus’ adventurers. Silver-rankers, probably. Does Manus sponsor them or are they just organic adventurers?
Esor cleared his throat, clearly hoping for a response, and Saliss glanced at him.
“Hm?”
“Did you have an opinion on any of this, Alchemist Saliss? Anything I should bear in mind or bring back to the [General]? I was told to listen to your opinion, and I do respect your insight.”
The Garuda smiled at him. Saliss stopped, turned, and put a hand on Esor’s shoulder. He met the Garuda’s eyes and spoke seriously.
“Indeed I do. I hope the other Walled Cities buy Edellein something nice and treat him to some wine and a lovely meal before they bend him over and fuck him.”
Esor’s eyes widened, and a passing [Soldier] walked straight into one of the tent poles. Esor gave Saliss a look of horror as his head snapped around. Saliss beamed at him.
“I could write it down for Edellein if you want.”
He got a dozen paces before Esor flapped after him.
“Saliss! I’m trying to include you in this expedition! If you want General Edellein’s ear, you cannot treat him like Chaldion!”
Saliss spun and poked Esor in the chest, hard.
“Who says I want to do the same damn dance as with the old man? I want Edellein to understand exactly what I do. I blow things up. If he thinks he’s holding a [Fireball], well, he might actually be cautious, and that’s what I want. I’m not going to hold Edellein’s hand, Esor! You and I both know he’s going to fuck up.”
“Yes, and people will die if we don’t mitigate that. He could lead Pallass well enough, Saliss.”
The Drake lowered his voice as his tail lashed.
“He could? Really? What about Shirka and the entire debacle with the Goblin Lord and Titan? What about that order to ‘dislodge Manus’? Even putting aside the fact that he doesn’t know how to use me, he thinks like a Pallassian General. Chaldion led all the Drake cities, whether they liked it or not. If you want better leadership, if you want to replace Edellein, then lead people, Esor. But keep me the hell out of it. I’m done playing politics in the army.”
With that, Saliss shoved Esor. He dropped his knees, pushed up, and had the satisfaction of hearing a squawk before Esor was flying through the air. The Garuda caught himself, flapping wildly, and Saliss glared…then saw more people staring at him.
Damn. He hated being a bit honest. Saliss stalked off, rattled. What had happened to his usual composure and ability to annoy everyone?
I’ve gotten angrier. It’s all too personal again, too raw. Was it the Goblin King? Is it…Onieva? 
He didn’t know, but suddenly doing this dance was harder than before. It made him feel like a clown, and he didn’t like the feeling.
Dead gods. Saliss caught himself humming a military tune as he went in search of a tent so he could be alone. It was repetitive and dry, and it stuck in your head. The ratatatatat of drums until you were all marching together, thinking together, fighting together. You and the army, all sharing the same brain.
The problem wasn’t that they made Saliss join them on their campaigns. The problem was that he’d grown up as Chaldion’s grandchild.
He’d been a really damn good soldier.
 
——
 
With the exception of Saliss, every other adventurer of Gold-rank or higher was actually quite social in the mixed-army camps. Adventurers had stories, wealth, and that allure of fame and success about them. Some hung out with regular [Soldiers] in the mess camps, but the higher-level ones tended to stick with each other and officers.
Word had spread about Saliss’ near dive-bombing of Manus’ air defense force, and he didn’t seem very approachable. By contrast, Glasiaad the Tome Magus was representing Pallass like a real Named-rank adventurer.
He’d set up a tent in the camp, and on the morning after General Edellein’s arrival, he was pouring out drinks inside of it, sitting in a huge chair as he met fellow adventurers and shook hands over the crystal table. His tent was fourteen feet tall on the outside, circular, and the yellow cloth hung with multi-colored tassels and his personal sigil, which was of a younger Glasiaad’s face.
The Drake himself was in his sixties these days, but he looked good, roguishly old with still-sleek neck spines and fine fitness for his age. His voice was deep and mellow; floating spell tomes moved with him.
“I can cast a spell from each one, you see. It’s like a permanent spell scroll; once I use a spell, I have to re-bind it back onto the pages. Tedious, but it means my library of spells is four times that of my peers.”
“Why doesn’t everyone use magic like that, Magus? I’ve never heard of my [Battlemages] acting that way.”
One of the [Majors] under Edellein’s command was keeping the Named-rank company, despite soldiers marching past the open tent. Glasiaad chuckled as a wine bottle poured more wine around. The [Major] was one of half a dozen people sitting with the Named-rank. There were two Gold-rank adventurers from different teams, one of Oteslia’s [Druids], and officers from General Rigrel’s personal command.
Glasiaad was meeting them for the first time, and he winked at the awestruck Gold-rank [Sorceress], a Drake in her twenties.
“Well, if I may be so bold as to say it, Major Zifren, it’s a difficult thing to scribe spells in the first place! Not to mention making a spellbook that can hold spells and endure the process of expending magic and re-using it…think of it like this. I need to manufacture my ammunition as well as use it. So I occupy the role of [Fletcher] and [Archer]—and [Quartermaster]! People have tried to copy my methods, but I think they’re not something that’s easily transferable.”
There were nods around the table, and the other Gold-ranker, a Human from Oteslia, broke in.
“Sir Glasiaad, I have that ‘sir’ right?”
“I am a Wall Lord of Pallass. Though it’s a technicality; I spend most of my time in Liltengrass. Lovely city, just close enough to get all the amenities I want, but not to be in the City of Inventions itself. It gets tiring, you know! All those stairs at my age?”
Glasiaad winked, and the view from the tent’s opening of marching soldiers blurred for a moment, then stopped—on a new patch of ground. Some of the [Soldiers] did a double-take, but the company within the tent had seen it ‘hop’ across the ground more than once.
Now that was Named-rank power. The Human was part of Green Solutions, a Gold-rank team out of Oteslia, and he was rather starstruck by the Named-ranker. His team was adorned in all-natural armor, grown from Oteslia’s gardens, and used—among other things—seeds which would explode with natural power. He wasn’t a [Druid] himself; he was a [Warrior of the Green] and Level 36.
Close, in short, to Named-rank status for his team. Glasiaad smiled.
“You can drop the title, though, Adventurer Thoir. After all, it might be your team who hits Named-rank soon! It’s always good to have a friend among fellow adventurers, eh?”
Thoir nodded as he accepted a refill and relaxed. The Drake [Sorceress] seemed tongue-tied.
“Thoir and Nekessa? You should bring your teams by tonight! I confess, I don’t know all you up-and-coming Gold-rankers as well as I should, even Pallass’ teams! Do we know who’s with us?”
Major Zifren knew that.
“I’m aware the Wings of Pallass are flying in, and of course, General Edellein had to call on the Flamewardens. Their leader, Keldrass, is wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. They cost nearly twice what the Wings did to be put on retainer due to the expense of renting the armor, but it’s a sight to see!”
The others murmured excitedly, and Glasiaad tapped his lips.
“Flamewardens…Flamewardens…I think I recall that name. The Wings too. They don’t stand out in my memory, though—you tend to notice the adventurers who rise to Named-rank. They move like lightning bolts up through the ranks! Like Lehra Ruinstrider, in fact. When I heard she’d found the Blade of Mershi, I knew she was going to be Named-rank. Now, it may be we’ll find the same kinds of discoveries in the New Lands—but we’ll see where High Command puts us, eh? I do hope that General Edellein will understand I’m more focused on magical phenomena. Just call me in when you find that dungeon, and I’ll de-trap everything! But catch me footslogging across the New Lands?”
He rolled his eyes expressively, and the Major assured him that he’d ensure the [Wizard] was their go-to specialist for any dungeons or the like. The Oteslian [Warrior] opened his mouth, eyed Glasiaad, and then closed it. He was drinking sparingly from the wine since it was barely past 10.
“What is our share of treasure going to be like, by the way, Major? I know we’re all on retainer, but if we were to come across a huge find like the Heartflame Breastplate, do we have a claim on that?”
Sorceress Nekessa asked worriedly. The Major hesitated, but Glasiaad waved a claw.
“Ah, well, if you’re wise, you’ll have a contract pre-determined with your Walled City, Miss Nekessa. I have one that stipulates any treasure I help recover, I have a claim to, though obviously, if it were the Heartflame Breastplate, they might buy it from me. But a share is a share! Do you have an individual contract or did you just agree to one from the Adventurer’s Guild?”
Both adventurers seemed mildly alarmed, but the Oteslian [Warrior] cut in.
“Green Solutions should be covered under our contracts. Mivifa herself negotiated the contracts which apply to all adventurers.”
“And Manus…?”
Nekessa seemed worried, and Glasiaad nodded knowingly.
“Why don’t you bring over your contract tonight, Miss Nekessa? I’ll take a look and we’ll see if we can hammer another one out. It’s never too late to negotiate in my experience.”
She beamed at him in relief, thanking him profusely, and then Glasiaad was snapping his claws again, producing sparks of light.
“I’d love to work with your teams, you two. And a good company of whichever Walled City’s forces are doing the expeditions. I’m not like Saliss, who’s rather hard to work with. He’ll run off and throw his exploding potions—me? Teamwork with our [Soldiers] all the way down. Maybe those Pallassian teams too. Any others? Where do I know those names from?”
“Wouldn’t it be the Wyvern attack on Pallass, Magus?”
Thoir exchanged a glance with Nekessa, surprised that it wasn’t top-of-mind. Glasiaad blinked.
“Of course! I wasn’t there for that—now I recall! Brave adventurers. If they’re willing to fight that many Frost Wyverns like that, then I can certainly trust them with my tail.”
He shook his head, and Nekessa lifted a claw.
“Magus, I have to admit, I was surprised when I heard you were Pallass’ Named-rank! I would have expected you to be on the walls with Magus Grimalkin, but I suppose you were too far out of range when the attack came?”
Everyone looked at Glasiaad, and he paused, then grimaced and shrugged.
“I can’t teleport all the way to Pallass, sadly. Both a matter of mana and anti-teleportation spells on the city. Even General Edellein’s army was unable to reach Pallass in time—besides, they had Saliss. He always shows up for trouble involving Pallass itself.”
He waved an airy claw, and Thoir glanced over his shoulder.
“What is Saliss of Lights like, Magus? I’ve never met him. I thought he was supposed to be funny and friendly, but I, uh, heard he nearly threw a [Strategist] across the camp yesterday.”
“Saliss?”
For the first time, Glasiaad’s easy smile vanished. He hesitated and swirled his wine around in his goblet, then grimaced as he drank it.
“Saliss is…a Named-rank adventurer, no doubt about that. He’s insane, dangerous—the nudity is real, by the way. I’ve seen him adventuring for thirty years, and never once did he wear a pair of pants. Let’s just say there’s a reason he’s the only Named-rank living in Pallass.”
Everyone glanced at each other.
“No one can stand him?”
Glasiaad waved a clawed finger.
“Not just that. He’s just—overbearing. You get adventurers like that. Territorial. It’s his way or the highway, and I didn’t feel like butting heads with another Named-rank at my age. So I stay away. Now, is he the Drake you want when the monsters appear? Obviously. But will you see me inviting him for a drink?”
He shook his head, tsking, and the two Gold-ranks nodded along with everyone else. Nekessa saw Glasiaad offer her another smile as he whisked the vintage of wine away.
“Let’s have some Amentus wine next! It’s sweet, so we’ll need something to cut it with. I have some cheeses, though if our Oteslian [Quartermaster] had any access to fresh foods, I would be exceptionally grateful, Druid Ulwhe. Now, if we’re talking about adventurers and Named-ranks, did anyone ever meet old Torreb? Just me? Now there’s an unpleasant fellow to get along with…”
 
——
 
Saliss left his tents at around ten in the morning. The camp had already begun being struck at dawn, but moving such a huge army meant that it was all in phases.
Walled Army camps had a certain…surreal quality to them that caught people off-guard. The lines of neatly-organized tents and roads you had to march down were laid out like miniature cities, because that’s what they were. You had a plan with each tent, and if you were Esor, you could see it laid out like from on high.
Organized, that was the word for it. Unlike other armies, Drakes enforced all the rules. March on the right side in columns while foot-traffic could move around them. Fortified sentry posts and command usually in the center of the camp, but never in the direct center, because that might let someone find or strike it easily…these were the basics of any army.
Where they differed was how each Walled City operated. For instance, Pallass loved alchemy and metallurgy, so you had camp [Alchemists] with their own area on the outskirts of camp. Their noxious odors always annoyed other Walled Cities, and they were always kept on the edges—in case a bad reaction blew something up. More than one surprise attack had been foiled by someone ambushing a group of the Alchecorps and getting a premature detonation in the face.
Each encampment from each Walled City had its quirks like that. They camped next to each other, separated by an open stretch of ground so it felt you walked into a new area if you crossed from, say, Pallass to Oteslia. Different turf, different city.
Quite literally if you were hanging out with the [Druids], who were walking around a quite untidy section of camp. Some didn’t even bother with tents; they slept in the open, showered nude under rain spells, or hung out or smoked illicit substances in the open. Civilian experts; the envy and dismay of soldiers.
Manus, by contrast, had all the tricks like subtly lowering the terrain around each of their watchtowers they set up—and they lugged the damn watchtowers in Chests of Holding—it made it hard to evade their sentries’ eyes. Unless you were Saliss. If Fissival were here, you’d see all the Gnolls and Drakes staying well clear of each other. Conscripts or auxiliaries from smaller cities supplementing a Walled City’s forces.
Salazsar had used to be like that too. Manus had Drakes and Gnolls mixing without problems; everyone was a [Soldier] there. But Saliss had noticed Gnolls from Oteslia giving some of Manus’ [Soldiers] a death-glare. Possibly, they were Plains Gnolls or had been at the Meeting of Tribes. Still, if there was one city that wasn’t going to get fights between Gnolls and Drakes, it was Oteslia.
Mixed levels of sharpness on all sides. Pallass had brought the most quality and numbers, just as Saliss suspected. Manus seemed oddly mixed; a few groups of [Soldiers] seemed sharper than the others. Probably pulled from various areas, then. Oteslia…Saliss thought they were average. The [Druids] actually seemed sharper than the troops. It made sense; Oteslia had been in a fight with Zeres recently, and after the Meeting of Tribes, they weren’t going to send their finest into the New Lands. Not without knowing what the stakes were. No, only good old Pallass for that.
The [Alchemist] packed up his tent, but didn’t feel like marching with any one group.
“Don’t worry, I’ll get to the next spot. I’ll just walk around. Don’t mind me.”
He assured one of the [Soldiers] sent to mind him. The [Tactician] cleared his throat.
“But Alchemist, General Edellein sent me to watch over you! If you’d like any services, just let me know and—”
Saliss frowned.
“Services? Well, I might need to replace my belt. Is there a leatherworker in camp?”
“Of course, sir! I can get you to the highest-level one and put in a priority order.”
Saliss nodded as the [Tactician] wrote a rapid note, then peered over his shoulder.
“Good idea, but maybe you should put out the fire first? Is that the workshop?”
He pointed, and the [Tactician] spun in alarm.
“Where? What fire? Wh—Adventurer Saliss?”
 
——
 
Saliss paused to let a column of [Soldiers] march past him and saw they were Oteslia’s forces. They had green armor, more Gnolls than usual, and this lot was armed with shortbows and shortspears. Rapid engagement. They all stared at Saliss as he stood there. One whistled.
“Lost your clothes, adventurer? It gets cold in the New Lands, I hear!”
There was laughter, and some of them eyed his private parts before jerking their eyes away. It was always a mix, Saliss found, of people who stared and those who tried to pretend there was nothing to see. He called back, voice cheerful.
“I lost all my clothes gambling! If you’d like to donate to my clothing fund, I accept donations!”
He produced a razor and slashed energetically, removing some tufts of fur from the nearest Gnolls, who swore at him, then checked themselves and laughed. There was laughter until another column of [Soldiers] marched at double-pace past the Oteslian one.
“More of Pallass’ crazies. Who wants a naked [Alchemist] when the Adult Creler pops up?”
Manus’ forces did not like him; well, these were younger [Soldiers] who might have just heard about yesterday. Or they just didn’t like naked Drakes. Now, the old guard would really hate him…Saliss beamed at the scowling Drake who’d issued the comment.
“Oh, you don’t call on me for Adult Crelers, you cute boys and girls. Go get an adventurer who cares.”
More heads turned, and they eyed him. Saliss kept beaming.
“You call on me when the Elder Creler shows up. Got it? Don’t waste my time. Adult Crelers. Hah! Spoken like someone who’s never seen one of them before.”
A silence fell over the marching column, and several [Soldiers] glanced back at Saliss. He cupped his hands to his mouth.
“Hey, if you get back to Manus, tell Zeter Sixswords I said hello! Ask him if he’s ever going to kill an Elder Creler or if he’s just sticking to babies!”
Then Saliss wondered if Zeter would actually show up. Probably not…Manus loved to use him around the city where he could be rapidly deployed. Hopefully, they wouldn’t meet; Saliss hated Zeter. He hated a lot of Named-ranks he knew, come to that.
He strolled on, moving around the camp, trading jests with passing groups of [Soldiers] and getting the feel for the camp. Saliss was mostly on the lookout for interesting facets any army had brought. There were always general [Soldiers] and specialists, and the specialists tended to be what turned the tide. Not even fighters; if you had a strong group of support classes, well, it was good to know.
A good number of Oteslian [Druids]. They’re going to be useful, I bet. I wonder how they’re mitigating the mana-drain. I brought that damn Mana Lantern, and it’s going to eat magical gems like no tomorrow, but it should keep my potions and gear safe. How the hell is Edellein going to keep his magic from wearing out?
Chests of Holding getting recharged by [Mages]? Wasteful. But then again, only officers would have magical items.
This entire campaign was going to be a nightmare for logistics the further into the New Lands they went. In Drake territory, they could buy provisions or get resupplies, but in the New Lands, they’d need to ration carefully. Esor could probably handle that, but disasters in the supply chains would be a huge problem.
I’ve got to watch for toxins and other nastiness since no one else is going to do that. Maybe some of the Alchecorps…but they’re not going to have the same eyes I do. I assume they’ll test the water.
Damnit, I’d better test the water before any idiots make camp.
Right now, it felt like his role would be scouting in advance—it’d get him out of the way of Edellein and allow him to properly adventure while neutralizing problems. The issue? Saliss just….wasn’t feeling it.
There was a tingle you got in your tail that raced up your spine, a shivering on your scales when adventure called. It was the palpitating of your heart, the urge that dragged you forwards into the unknown. He…didn’t have it. Not for the New Lands. Not when the inn had contained a Goblin King and Saliss felt like he should be in Baleros, if anywhere.
I can’t believe I survived the Goblin King. There I was, watching Dragonlords fighting him and losing, and I could barely even survive. Too low-level. Me! Hah! I hate this era. I need more seith. Buckets of it. A chest’s worth of it and I might be able to blow a hole in Pallass’ walls.
One thing of note made Saliss turn his head as he passed by the landing zones where a few Wyverns were coming in. He saw a company of [Soldiers] was on escort duty, debriefing visitors and standing in the sun. The [Soldiers] looked hot in their armor despite it being spring; this was no rainy Liscor.
“Well now, that’s Captain Whatshisname. That old Gnoll really doesn’t like him.”
Saliss muttered to himself. A voice spoke up from behind him.
“General Rigrel’s sentiments appear to be shared by a number of Manus’ officers. My own squad was warned his unit is often passed over when commendations come around. Why, I could not say, Adventurer Saliss. But the [Soldiers] I spoke to claimed that Captain Lyssander, or Captain ‘Lyss’, is a good leader, if odd.”
Saliss didn’t jump because he’d noticed the Gnoll coming up from behind him. But when he turned, he did raise his brows.
“Well, you’re big.”
The Gnoll was six foot seven, and even as Gnolls went, he was a unit. His arm muscles bulged, and his stomach was taut under the leather armor he wore. Leather? He was no [Scout]. Saliss pointed at him.
“You’re one of them! Muscle-men! The muscle-men of Pallass! Flee for your lives, everyone!”
He threw up his hands and dashed away. Saliss covered a hundred feet in six seconds, rounded a corner…and the Gnoll was almost instantly behind him.
“Magus-Captain Yorm, Adventurer Saliss! I am indeed part of Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s Magical Corps. Spellarm Squad. I am not a specialist [Mage] myself, of course, though I have great interests in levelling the class. [Artifact Captain]. Level 12 [Mage].”
He had two wands at his belt and a short spear and buckler. Both enchanted. He was also annoyingly fast. Saliss began speed-walking away from him.
“Great! Nice to meet you! Tell Grimalkin I hope that thing with the thing works out. Goodbye!”
Captain Yorm kept pace.
“Would you be referring to the rumor of his assignation with Lady Pryde Ulta, sir? That is a controversial topic within Pallass’ army…but not among his students. I am, of course, in full support of the Magus as I am pleased to note you are.”
Dead gods, he even talks like Grimalkin. At least the poor Sinew Magus had support from his students. Saliss shrugged.
“Eh, kissing Humans isn’t the worst thing I’ve seen. Grimalkin’s got someone to love. Good for him. Muscular romance. Are you seeing any one?”
“Not in so many words, sir. But hope springs eternal.”
“Hah! Loser.”
After a moment, Saliss patted Captain Yorm on the arm.
“That was harsh. Sorry.”
“Not at all, sir. It’s a hazard of the occupation. Long deployments and being a higher rank means you have to be careful with that sort of thing. If I might ask…does a Named-rank adventurer find company that often?”
“Here and there. Here and there. I found a cute someone recently. But hey, that’s personal.”
Don’t mention Ishkr. Even if his heart leapt a bit in his chest. Saliss gave Yorm a big smile.
“…If I run across the entire camp, you’re going to follow me, aren’t you?”
“Yes, sir. General Edellein’s orders. I am to ensure you cause no trouble, which, respectfully, I doubt will be the case. But if you will permit me to follow along? Do not slow yourself on my account.”
Saliss was tempted to try to lose Yorm, but he had a sneaking suspicion that the Gnoll would catch up in time, and he’d probably enjoy the chase, the sick freaks that Grimalkin’s students were.
“Great. Edellein has a brain after all.”
“General Edellein, sir.”
And he was a military man. Yorm’s voice was disapproving, and Saliss shot him a fake smile.
“Are you part of 4th Army, Yorm?”
“1st Army now, sir, but yes. I have had the pleasure of serving under General Edellein’s command for six years; I was part of the 8th as a rookie for ten years before that until I was hand-picked for Magus Grimalkin’s training initiatives. I’m well familiar with the General’s forces if you had any questions.”
“I’m surprised he accepted any of Grimalkin’s students into the army. They were controversial, and most armies didn’t want his people. Let alone non-spellcasters.”
If Saliss recalled right, it was only after several of Grimalkin’s [Mages] had racked up very impressive battle records that the initiative had caught on. Yorm nodded as he strode along.
“That was the case, sir. But General Edellein was the second [General] to adopt Magus Grimalkin’s methods into his army.”
“…What? Him? I know Thrissiam was the first. But really? All I know about 4th Army is that annoying idiot at the Trial of Blades. The one who sliced up a bunch of people including Yvlon and Typhenous.”
“Lieutenant Comois, sir? He was one of General Edellein’s prized pupils. His loss is still keenly felt among the army.”
Ooh. Yorm’s face was straight, but Saliss detected a weakness.
“He should have known better than to try and maim adventurers. Rookie mistake, that.”
The Gnoll stared past Saliss, and his response was slow.
“That would appear to be evident, Adventurer Saliss. Lieutenant Comois was…confident. But he was also a dedicated member of 4th Army, and I would hope his record invites some appreciation from a former military man such as yourself.”
The rebuke, mild as it was, made Saliss’ eyes narrow. He thought about telling Yorm exactly what he thought of that bloodthirsty [Lieutenant], then changed tack. He didn’t need an enemy if this Gnoll was following him around.
“How the hell did Edellein find that Drake? Idi—arrogant or not, he had a very powerful class. [Lieutenant of Perfection] isn’t a class that just pops up.”
Yorm smiled faintly.
“Why, Edellein helped cultivate his potential, Alchemist. He mentored Lieutenant Comois himself. Even bought him Drathian pills and such and had him trained by our best. It’s what the General is known for.”
“What? Edellein?”
Another nod. Now, Saliss was genuinely interested; he’d heard Edellein had a lucky streak with some of his people, but Yorm had a different explanation.
“General Edellein is quite good at talentseeking. More than one officer under his army has gone on to make far higher ranks. He spots what works, like Magus Grimalkin’s methods, and incorporates it into his forces. For instance, the late General Thrissiam got his start under Edellein as a junior officer.”
“I remember that. Though I recall he was shuffled off to 2nd Army to get experience without nepotism paving his path.”
Yorm frowned.
“I…don’t believe that would have been the case, sir. General Edellein does take interest in promising members of his army, but he doesn’t coddle them.”
“Well, that was Chaldion’s perspective.”
“Ah. I see, sir. Well, I can’t speak of the objective truth, just my own insight into the matter. I would advise that you refrain from any comments about Lieutenant Comois in the General’s presence.”
“No promises.”
They were walking through the camp towards the exit now, and Saliss saw the winding stream of soldiers heading westwards. He stretched his arms out and turned to Yorm.
“So you’re going to follow me? I’m fed up with wandering around; I’m going to get to the next part of camp and do some alchemy.”
“I could have a Wyvern readied, sir?”
Yorm suggested, but he was glancing at Saliss, and the Drake just stretched his legs out.
“Nah. I’ll run. You can keep up if you like.”
 
——
 
Rather to his annoyance—Yorm did keep up. Though he definitely used some kind of Skill or magical item to keep pace.
The Drake and Gnoll flashed past [Soldiers] on the march, easily outpacing them. Saliss even outran the cavalry divisions and heard the officers shouting at the soldiers so they didn’t try to race him.
Smart. Even a horse couldn’t beat someone with Galas muscle—and Saliss did have Galas. Most non-[Warriors] might not get any, even past Level 40, but he was an exception. An [Alchemist] could redefine his body, and Saliss…was rather good at manipulating the body.
Argh, his scales were itching a bit. So soon? Normally Saliss could keep it together for at least two weeks after becoming Onieva. He wanted to be back at the inn, in Ishkr’s arms…
The image of Saliss in Ishkr’s arms flashed into his mind, and his scales itched harder.
Not Saliss, Onieva. The Drake slowed, wiping sweat from his brows, and his bad mood was back. And what should he see as he slowed but that stupid tent, and that idiot’s face beaming at him.
“Glasiaad. Oh, great. And here I was hoping he’d stay away. The Magpie just has to get some of the loot, doesn’t he?”
Captain Yorm was too busy catching his breath to reply. Saliss saw half a dozen people exiting Glasiaad’s tent, and more entering cautiously.
“Do you know…Magus Glasiaad…Adventurer Saliss? I received…an invite to his tent, but I felt it was inappropriate.”
Yorm panted, and Saliss eyed the somewhat-unsteady group.
“Don’t bother. See that lot wobbling? He’ll just get you drunk and full on his stupid cheeses and talk your ears off about what real adventuring is like. Hold on, I’m going to cause trouble.”
“Wait, sir—”
Yorm was too slow as Saliss skipped over to the group. He waved
“Hello there! Drinking by daylight? Tsk, tsk—I’ll report you to High Command! Who’s this now?”
They jumped, and two of them turned and blinked at him. Adventurers? Saliss grinned and put out a hand.
“Saliss of Lights. And you’re Drunk, and you’re Tipsy. Good to meet you!”
He shook the Drake’s hand, then the Human’s, and the young man tried to yank his hand out of Saliss’ grip.
“Adventurer Saliss? Ah, good to meet you. I’m Captain Thoir of Green Solutions.”
He was polite enough, but there was a clear reserve as Nekessa murmured her name and team. Saliss noticed the [Major] pulling a face as well. Ooh, someone’s been telling stories about me.
“Old Glasiaad doing well? I’d check in on him, but he hates my tail. You kids excited for the New Lands?”
“Er, yes, sir. Will you be adventuring with us?”
Thoir eyed Saliss, and the Named-rank waved a claw.
“Oh, not me. I go solo, mostly. Few teams keep up. You just call if you run into an Elder Creler, and watch how many minders you have. If you find any loot, maybe grab it first then report to High Command. Otherwise, they tend to get all grabby.”
He grinned as the other soldiers gave him outraged glares. Thoir hesitated, glancing at Captain Yorm, but Saliss didn’t see what face the Gnoll was making. Nekessa backed up a step.
“We’ll take that under advisement, Adventurer Saliss. But we really must be going.”
She backed up, and Saliss eyed her. Let’s see. She was in her twenties, a [Sorcerer], Gold-rank, and attractive…yep. He popped up behind her.
“Where’s your team? I’ll walk you to them! You’re Manus, right? Have you met old Zeter Sixdicks? He lost five in the war, but I never hold that against him.”
She jumped and looked at Thoir for help, but at that moment, Captain Yorm introduced himself. Nekessa gave up and tried to jog back to her team.
“Adventurer Saliss, I really don’t have time to discuss anything with you—excuse me, please!”
Nekessa was red-cheeked, and Saliss gave her a toothy grin as she glared at him. He spoke as she yanked an arm free.
“If I’m right, old Glasiaad offered to give you magical lessons in the evening. Am I right?”
“No!”
She stalked away, and he raised his brows.
“Not magical lessons? Then…looking at your adventurer contracts? Or was it giving you combat advice? Appraising an artifact?”
Nekessa stumbled, and he popped back into place, strolling next to her. She gave him a sideways eye.
“Why would that—”
“Oh, it’s fine. I’d just go with your team Captain. Glasiaad and I hate each other, so I really don’t mind saying whatever I feel about him. He’s largely harmless. But he does have warts on his dick.”
Her mouth opened. Saliss glanced at her.
“They’re contagious. Just in case you were blown away by his wonderful demeanor and charm. But hey, if you happen to decide it’s worth the itch, I have this [Alchemist] friend who does a wonderful salve. Xif in Pallass—just tell him I sent you. I don’t do custom cures anymore.”
Her eyes flickered as she stared at him, and Saliss glanced over his shoulder; Yorm was jogging towards him.
“Oops, I haven’t finished my run. Got to go! Be sure to check your contracts! Manus never gives good ones ooooouuuuut!”
He waved as he leapt away, leaving the Gold-rank [Sorceress] gazing at his back.
 
——
 
“Adventurer Saliss, what was that about?”
Yorm commented to Saliss when the Drake slowed down. The [Alchemist] glanced at him.
“That’s my question. Aren’t you supposed to be following me, not making smalltalk?”
The Gnoll [Captain] grunted.
“I could tell you were interested in talking to the adventurer alone. Am I correct in assuming Adventurer Glasiaad has—objectionable indiscretions?”
His voice was very careful, and Saliss beamed at him.
“And if he did, what would you do about it, report it to High Command? Would that do anything?”
There was a deafening silence from the Gnoll, and Saliss relented after a moment.
“He doesn’t. If he does, then I’d find out about it. And if I found out about it, Glasiaad and I would have to fight, and he’d hate that. I just gave the young lady some advice about having things stuck where she really might not want them. Why, did you think he was up to no good?”
Captain Yorm glanced over his shoulder.
“What is the purpose of Adventurer Glasiaad hosting so many officers and adventurers? Purely social or to find company?”
Saliss waved a claw.
“Oh, that. That’s just him being the Magpie. Don’t you know how it’ll be in the New Lands? Work it out for me.”
He let Yorm think until the Gnoll replied back.
“Would it have something to do with treasure distribution?”
“Wow, you are Grimalkin’s student. Got it in one. If he helps dispel anything when they pull out loot, he gets a cut. Good way to get paid. Glasiaad’s adventuring days are a bit behind him; he’d rather just do some magic and not run around. He’s too fat to escape a monster, anyways.”
“He looks in good condition to me?”
“Illusion. He’s not the worst Named-rank around.”
But what did that mean? Nothing, really. Half were insane, the other half were insane and some kind of twisted.
 
——
 
And Saliss?
He reached the next camp, set up a tent in the nicest, most out-of-the-way spot he could find, and tried to work on some of the alchemy recipes in his mind, scribbling down notes on how to improve them until it was time for dinner.
He was so miserable that he just lay there instead of getting something to eat until Captain Yorm scratched on the tent flap.
“Adventurer Saliss, a [Message] for you, sir.”
“Add it to my pile of thousands and go away.”
“This is from The Wandering Inn.”
Saliss sat up and opened the tent flaps.
“Go on.”
Yorm handed him a note. Saliss read the writing.
 
Dear Saliss,
Would you go to a private area please and turn off your anti-scrying countermeasures? Thank you!
 
It wasn’t a message that said people were dead or dying. Saliss frowned, then exhaled.
“Ah, of course.”
He jogged away from the camp, and Captain Yorm stood back at a distance after Saliss threw a few rocks his way. Then, Saliss deactivated one of his rings and waited.
The little Gnoll girl appeared with a notepad in one paw and a bowl of noodles in the other. Mrsha slurped up some noodles as Saliss spread his arms.
“Mrsha! My fifth-favorite Gnoll!”
Hey! I should be at least top three! How are you doing, Saliss?
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“Oh, you know, doing army stuff. March here, go there, poop over there…there’s my sixth-favorite Gnoll that way. See that guy? Captain Yorm, one of Grimalkin’s students.”
Whoa, he’s big.
Mrsha eyed Yorm, who was giving her a very interested gaze. Saliss sat down cross-legged. He was vaguely annoyed how cheerful seeing Mrsha made him.
“So, am I now on your little list of people to check in on, hmm?”
The girl innocently scribbled something down on the notepad.
Just saying hi, daily if I can, Saliss. You can ask for a weekly check-in, but it’s hard getting ahold of you, and if you’re in the New Lands…can I contact this Yorm guy if you’re busy?
Saliss’ eyes twinkled, but his tongue said—
“Check on me? How dare you be concerned about me? I’m Saliss of Lights!”
He threw his arms open and twirled around with a grin. But the Gnoll girl didn’t laugh or giggle or roll her eyes like she was supposed to.
Too old, those eyes. Shirka had looked like that even as a kid. Mrsha wrote back.
I bet that works on a lot of people, but I know Erin. How are things, Saliss?
He frowned at her.
“Oh, playing tough, are we? You first. How’s the inn? Any…things happen? Any trouble? Cross your heart and hope to fly.”
He’d hit her with a Levitation Potion for fun when he got back. Mrsha hesitated a second too long, and Saliss’ felt his heart skip a beat. But then she just sighed.
I’m still being super-watched but I get it, and besides that, we’re okay! I was bullied the other day.
“You? Bullied? Oh no, how will you ever survive?”
Saliss put a hand over his heart, but he was relieved when she smiled.
It was sort of novel. I used to get bullied, but now it’s weird. Okay, your turn, Saliss. How’s the army?
The Drake knew he paused a bit too long before shrugging.
“Eh, it’s about as fun as pulling teeth, but once we get to the New Lands, I’m fine. Also the food sucks. Write that down.”
She did and then peered at Saliss.
Sorry the army sucks. Are you with General Imreallydumb?
“No, just General Idiot. General Imreallydumb retired last year.”
She nodded sympathetically and then she did something that unnerved Saliss a bit. Mrsha peered at him, then wrote…
Saliss, would you like a hint?
“What sort of hint?”
Just a general hint about things that may-or-may-not happen. Nothing big—just a name or two.
“A name as in…someone important? Someone dangerous?”
I dunno.
She gave him a round-eyed look that was equal to any of Erin’s blank expressions, but Saliss had a thought. He knew where a…hint might come from. And he hesitated. Even he hesitated.
But if it’s important…
“Okay, hit me.”
Well, can you tell me what armies you’re with? Pallass and any others?
“Just Manus and Oteslia for the moment. We should get all of them at one point. That narrow it down?”
Mrsha didn’t rise to the bait. She thought for a moment, closing her eyes, then wrote slowly.
In that case, I would keep an eye out for…Rafaema of Manus. Cire of Oteslia. Lyssander of Manus, and Werica of Zeres. If you wanted to do something interesting.
Saliss’ face never changed, but he felt his tail curl ever-so-slightly.
Okay, now that was a bit interesting. He gave Mrsha a big smile.
“Sounds like fun. You wouldn’t happen to have a reason to check on those names, would you?”
Why the hell would he be interested in Rafaema, that annoying Wall Lady…? Or her friend that Mivifa was so interested in? And why Lyssander? He saw Mrsha—hesitate.
I…don’t remember.
Well, can you take a memory tonic and…he saw Mrsha’s face scrunch up miserably. Then Saliss remembered where she was getting this from.
The [Palace of Fates]. How many doors had she seen? How many future worlds? She rubbed at her little face.
They’re important. I was told that. But I don’t know why. They might be important, or maybe not in this time. But maybe. I wish I could tell you more, but it’s like following prophecy.
“Follow it too much and you’ll trip over your own tail. Right, got it.”
Saliss had some experience dealing with this sort of thing. It was like a [Dangersense]. Vague enough to tell you something was there, never specific enough to give you more than a heads up. Sometimes it was all you needed. He saw Mrsha perk up after a moment, and her fake smile was pretty good, but he wished she didn’t need to practice it.
Who knows? The future’s uncertain, Saliss. Okay, got to go! Do you have anything you’d like to say to Ceria?
Saliss thought after a moment, then pointed at her.
“Uh, green bananas on the squib-squab buttchunk.”
Got it. I’ll talk to you later, Saliss! Good luck!
“Good job, kid.”
She waved and was gone. The Drake stood there for a moment. Then he decided he was hungry after all.
 
——
 
“So that was the famous inn. I must admit, it didn’t disappoint.”
Captain Yorm sat with Saliss in the mess hall as the Drake poked at some decent food, despite what he’d told Mrsha. The army did try to feed its soldiers well enough they were happy, and Manus was serving a meal.
So they had, well, french fried Yellats on part of his tray with a mashed up bit of pork and baked bean mixture combined with a Prelon on the side, and if you were hungry enough, stew.
There was always stew if you needed extra rations, and Yorm had a huge plate. They were eating with his squad, who were all enormous. They made Saliss feel like a child among half-Giants.
Dead gods, they’re all fit. Not a shred of fat on them. It was a sight to make Mirn’s eyes hurt; if he had been here, he’d be eating his fill, and not the food.
Saliss being Saliss, he had zero interest in anyone at the moment, but Onieva would have preferred less assorted muscle. He popped some fries into his mouth and crunched.
“You’ve never been to the inn, Captain Yorm?”
“Not enough time off, sir. And we’re not always stationed in Pallass. But you hear stories…Magus Grimalkin doesn’t furnish us with any when he visits, sadly, but soldiers love to gossip.”
“Really, you don’t say? And here I just learned water was wet.”
There was a chuckle from the table, and Saliss decided Captain Yorm wouldn’t be the worst minder. At least his group knew a joke when they heard it. Saliss glanced around the mess hall.
He’d timed his meal just right. So there…aha. Here came some rather sweaty [Soldiers]. They wore Manus’ color of orange, which meant they were in a sea of orange, yellow, and green from the three cities present. Zeres was blue, Salazsar was purple, and Fissival had to be precious and wear white. Which stained, so only their [Mages] wore it.
“Now that’s a sweaty crew. What did you say that [Captain]’s name was, Yorm?”
Saliss indicated the Drake marching to the line. Yorm twisted in his sweat.
“Captain Lyssander. Hm. We should invite him over. Make a hole!”
Saliss wondered if he’d overplayed his hand, but it seemed Yorm knew something he didn’t. Because once Lyssander had gotten his meal, he and his group of [Soldiers] glanced around for space, and no one called out to them.
Which was odd because every group of [Soldiers] usually had buddies—but they stuck together. Which wasn’t strange in itself, but no officer was calling out to the Drake. That was until Yorm stood up and shouted.
“Captain Lyssander, here!”
Yep, there was the Grimalkin rumble. Lyssander turned from marching out and wavered, then strode over with an easy smile. Saliss shrank back in his seat as Lyssander sat—and he wasn’t the only one.
Major Zifren halted as he and some of his officers came over, clearly intent on sitting with Yorm, but the Gnoll just called out.
“Budge over more! We can fit!”
In fact, they took over three tables in the mess hall, but it meant that Saliss was sitting with the officers, who were all Pallassian except for Captain Lyssander. They outranked him, and instantly adopted that jovial senior club welcoming the young hatchling in.
As the outsider, Saliss was obviously a target of interest, but he just chomped down fries, waving.
“Hey, I’m Saliss. Don’t talk to me when I’m eating or I’ll bite you.”
That mostly worked—Major Zifren clearly didn’t have a good opinion of him, but Captain Lyssander eyed Saliss a bit longer than normal before nodding at him and smiling at the others.
“Major Zifren, isn’t it? I don’t know you, Captain…?”
“Yorm. You are acquainted with each other then, Major?”
The Drake laughed as he dug into his food.
“Not very strongly, though I certainly felt bad when General Rigrel tore a strip off you, Captain Lyss! But then, we were sweating up there dodging the [Light Arrow] spells.”
Lyssander raised his brows as he drank down a cup of water and wiped his mouth.
“You were fired upon? No one was hurt I hope?”
“Just a few empty stomachs—but you were there! Or didn’t you hear General Edellein shouting curses at you?”
Saliss peeked at Lyssander as Yorm raised his brows, but the Captain’s brows cleared.
“Ah, oops. Well, chain of command. I was in charge of the field, but I wasn’t with the anti-air division.”
“Then why did General Rigrel—ah, nevermind. It’s good to see you, Lieutenant!”
“Captain, now.”
One of the other officers reminded Zifren, and the [Major] slapped his forehead.
“Captain! Congratulations, but if you don’t mind me saying so, it feels wrong! I remember you and Lieutenant Comois sparring whenever our forces met. Then again, maybe he’d be [Captain] if…”
A silence fell over the table, and Lyssander looked from face to face.
“I was told he was killed during the Trial of Blades. I saw part of it—”
“The damned adventurers. And the Antinium! And the Goblins and—what a nightmare that was. You’ve heard of that inn and Liscor?”
All the Pallassians adopted a kind of weary ‘you had to be there’ approach about the inn and the things they’d seen, and the Manus soldiers leaned in, half denying the stories as tall tales, but drinking it in. Saliss just chewed on some beans, listening.
“Comois. Here’s to Comois! He never lost a single duel, not once in the officer trials. Yorm, you never partook of those, did you? You made [Captain] out of Grimalkin’s training?”
Yorm shook his head.
“Different path, so no. Alchemist Saliss, do you know about this training?”
Saliss debated biting Yorm as every eye swung towards him, but he just shrugged.
“Manus puts it on. They bring their officers, other cities bring theirs. You take your cute lieutenants and try to get them to beat the other ones down.”
Major Zifren hesitated, then nodded at Saliss.
“Not how we’d put it, but yes. It’s very prestigious, and you get to see talent that way! Comois, of course, couldn’t be touched on the dueling mats. You remember, Captain Lyssander?”
Lyssander smiled crookedly in a way most missed.
“I couldn’t ever take him down, it’s true.”
“Didn’t you beat him in a number of the command matches, though? He was spitting fire for weeks after that!”
Another officer joked, and Lyssander nodded. He cast another glance at Saliss.
“I’ve graduated from those since I made [Captain], but it was fun. With that said, not everyone enjoys them, and they weren’t always a good test of full capability. I mean that in the sense that you can always tell who’s promising, but sometimes you miss real genius.”
Major Zifren scoffed.
“Oh, come now. Who could you name who didn’t show promise in the officer trials?”
Lyssander raised his brows.
“Speaking of Liscor, have you heard of Strategos Olesm? He was in Manus’ academy when I was studying. I remember he hated the officer trials. He’d get destroyed by everyone—I think it was nerves. But now he’s leading one of Liscor’s armies and holding down three Drake cities up north.”
“Really? I don’t know this…Olesm. Wait, no, the name rings a bell?”
“What kind of rank is Strategos? Is that a class?”
“Liscor, hah! Imagine leading a bunch of Ants…”
The conversation was about to go to Liscor, which Saliss was willing to entertain, but he kept noticing Lyssander glancing at him. He felt a premonition before the Drake addressed him directly.
“Well, I do know of someone else who was never beaten during the time he participated in the officer trials. It would be a record, except that it was already set decades ago by Chaldion. Alchemist Saliss, didn’t you participate in the officer trials? Were they any different when you were enrolled in Manus?”
Everyone turned and peered at Saliss, and the Drake calmly put down one fork. He decided he didn’t like Lyssander after all. He grinned.
“Me? Oh, sure, I remember something like that. Officers. Trials. Leading formations. All you do is yell ‘charge’ loud enough and it tends to work out!”
The [Major] and other officers seemed affronted, and before they could argue, Yorm changed the subject, asking what Lyssander’s orders were for the New Lands. Then they got into politics, and Saliss sat back, but he was eying Lyssander.
Who remembers my military records in Manus just like that? Did he just have that off the top of his head or does he know it because he knew he was going to run into me?
But it didn’t seem like Lyssander had said that to rattle Saliss or pursue some greater point. He had to excuse himself first and drained his cup.
“We’re back on flyer-duty. I have to run. Major, it was good to catch up. Let’s do it again. And Captain, a delight to meet Grimalkin’s famous magical corps. You don’t disappoint.”
He grinned and gave Yorm a huge handshake as the Gnoll chuckled. Then Lyssander was shouting for his people to rise. The Pallassians waved and then turned back to their meals. Saliss waited a beat, and before he rose, he heard Major Zifren say—
“Ancestors, but it hurts without Comois here. Lyssander’s looking sharp. If only…”
A Garuda nodded solemnly and raised her cup.
“Let’s focus on the job. Save the drinking for that Named-rank’s tent or for General Edellein’s. Am I wrong or was he not the idiot who got us fired on?”
“I swear it wasn’t him—but I get the impression he’s not exactly well-liked in Manus’ army. Any idea why?”
The officers leaned over the table as Saliss crunched on a fry and Captain Yorm bussed both their trays. Major Zifren coughed.
“Ah, well. Lyssander’s not bad in a scrap, but Comois always disliked him. As for the issue…egh, I’ll mention it later. Actually—well—”
Saliss had to go before the [Major] spat it out, and he strolled off with Captain Yorm following. Strange. He decided this was at least a way to kill the rest of the evening, but wasn’t sure how he’d get the information he was after.
As it so happened, the answer was quite obvious, although first—it began with another time-honored tradition when Walled Cities met.
Sabotage.
 
——
 
“They’re stealing our Prelons!”
Of all the problems to face Pallass’ army, this was certainly one of them. Saliss sat there as one of the officers protested to General Edellein’s face. For once, the [General] wore the same expression as Saliss. A kind of weary incredulity.
“Colonel…who’s stealing our Prelons?”
“It could be Manus or Oteslia, sir! All I know is that our [Quartermaster] lost an entire wagonload of Prelons! And our camp spots for an entire regiment were stolen by Oteslia! They claimed they hadn’t received plans for where each regiment was assigned!”
General Edellein pressed two claws to the bridge of his forehead.
“So one of our regiments has to camp elsewhere and we’re down Prelons. I’ll have an inquiry made.”
“But sir! If they keep this up, we’ll be homeless and hungry! And Zeres’ forces just arrived and camped ahead of us! We’ll be hours behind!”
Esor was doing his best not to roll his eyes, and Saliss just put his head down on the table. This was where Drakes became Drakes to the max—petty sabotage. It was just a game between armies.
“Well, I want you to take two regiments and beat Zeres to the march. Just get ahead of them. Have the soldiers sleep now and wake up at four.”
Edellein ordered, and the colonel brightened up. The worst part was that the [Soldiers] might grumble and swear, but they’d do it just to get ‘one up’ over Zeres. Saliss cracked one eye open.
“The City of Waves is here? Anyone I know?”
“You could say that, Saliss. Shark-Captain Femar himself is leading their forces.”
Femar? Saliss sat up with a groan. Great, someone else as pig-headed and stubborn as Zeter! Worse, he was the Serpentine Matriarch’s favorite, so he’d have authority to throw around. Edellein just sighed.
“Femar’s a bit…competitive. I’m not going to have his forces leave ours in the dust, but I don’t want brawls between our forces and Zeres’, understood? Some jockeying is always acceptable, but no conflict.”
He got agreement from his officers, but as everyone knew, this was pettiness on the level of Walled Cities. Each one had national pride, and they were regarding the New Lands as a contest, even if they were on the same side. Even the prestige of getting there ‘first’, nevermind everyone else who had done it, meant that more than one officer or [Soldier] got creative.
They were about to get to the adventurers, which was why Saliss was here, when the [Colonel] raced back into the tent, swearing.
“General! General!”
“What is it now?”
Edellein snapped, and the [Colonel] gasped.
“Some idiot cut the horselines! Half of them are out in the camp!”
 
——
 
Saliss peeked out into the camp and saw a lot of [Soldiers] chasing a lot of horses. Oooh. That was more than a casual disturbance.
That would actually tire out the horses and put Pallass’ [Riders] well behind schedule. Edellein was not happy.
“If it’s one of the [Soldiers] or officers, find them, and I’ll have them lashed! Who ordered that?”
He snapped, and the command tent was a flurry as the officers tried to dig into the matter. However, here was where Esor proved he wasn’t just any [Strategist]. Saliss saw him peer up with a huge sigh from talking to a nondescript [Soldier]—Saliss waved at the Eye of Pallass as they retreated—and tap Edellein on the shoulder.
“General, I have bad news. It would appear that the culprit in this bout of sabotage is none other than General Rigrel himself.”
“He what?”
Edellein turned, and here his exasperation turned to genuine ire. Esor clarified.
“I think he regards it as light fun between armies. He is, ah, old.”
“Old or not, those horses could have trampled someone or thrown a shoe! First the damn flying incident, now—I’m going to have a word with him! You get this kind of pranking between other forces, but we are on campaign. This is unprofessional!”
The Drake was about to march over before Esor coughed.
“Rigrel might regard it as turnabout, General Edellein. It, uh, appears that Manus’ forces aren’t the forward element in reaching the New Lands. A full division of Oteslia’s forces are half a day’s march ahead of us.”
Edellein closed his eyes and sat down wearily.
“If I ask how they got there, will I like the answer?”
“Mysterious walls of dirt, sir. They appeared and blocked Manus off until they circled around. It appears that one of Oteslia’s Wall Ladies publicly stated that Oteslia would be first to reach the New Lands.”
Well, that would just about do it. Saliss rolled his eyes as every Drake, Gnoll, Garuda, and Dullahan in the room sat up slowly. Edellein’s eyes narrowed.
“Did she? Well, that changes everything. Classic Oteslia, really, making statements it can’t back up. It would appear that Oteslia’s forward elements are about to run into…let’s see. A horrible rainstorm?”
He glanced up and down the room, and one of his officers nodded.
“Magus Glasiaad could do that.”
“Tragic. And as far as I’m concerned, Zeres and Manus are both unfortunate recipients of problems of their own. But how…”
Then he eyed Saliss. The Drake turned around and stared into Major Zifren’s eyes.
“Major Zifren, you’re a Drake of many depths. You scallywag.”
He elbowed the [Major], and Edellein spoke.
“Adventurer Saliss, you enjoy a jest. Something non-lethal and non-serious? I’ll pay your fee.”
You know, Saliss didn’t like Edellein. He didn’t like Drakes being at their worst, especially when it was Gnolls and other species joining in the same stupidity.
He would have said all this of course, but then he thought about Shark Captain Femar and General Rigrel. Solemnly, Saliss steepled his claws together.
“General, you’ve just given your finest order of the campaign. How far is too far, though, in the interest of clarity?”
“Slow them down a day, no longer. Nothing—humiliating that will escalate.”
Saliss nodded, making some notes.
“So no laxatives.”
“What? No, dead gods.”
“Dyed scales?”
“Uh—too disruptive.”
“How do you feel about excessive flatulence of an ear-shattering and noxious variety?”
Edellein was mid-shaking his head, then he hesitated.
“Just flatulence? Can you do half a day?”
“I can do eight hours.”
The [General] thought about it.
“Do it.”
 
——
 
The draught in question was a prank one Saliss had made up to annoy enemy [Infiltrators]. It had a few conditions to it—it had to be ingested in oral form, not a gas, and it had a halflife of twenty minutes. Then the substance broke down and the effects began.
Naturally, Saliss had a plan that involved hitting Zeres and Manus, and of course, he had decided to hit the best targets first. That was how he ended up sneaking into Zeres’ camp and locating Shark Captain Femar’s tent.
It was easy to get in undetected, of course. Captain Yorm had offered magical assistance, but Saliss had found no magic was better than magic if you could swing it. His real problem was how to get Femar and as many troops as possible.
Water barrel? Not enough [Soldiers] drink that. By the time it starts activating, I’d get a few dozen at most, assuming I could spike them all fast enough.
Mess hall? I’ll hit too many of our own. No, this has to be elegant. Think, Saliss, think.
He was having a bit of fun, and the Drake snapped his fingers as he thought of Zeres and came up with the solution.
Strategist Esor wasn’t happy, but he could provide what Saliss wanted with ease. And that was how the Drake ended up rolling a giant barrel into the center of Zeres’ camp, shouting loudly as he could.
“Delivery from the Serpentine Matriarch! Up and at ‘em, you salty seadogs! Come get yer grog!”
He had four barrels actually, and the Shark Captain himself came out of his tents.
“What delivery? What’s this about?”
He squinted at Saliss, but it was already past evening, and Saliss had on an impenetrable disguise: he was wearing pants.
“Evening, Shark Captain, sir! City Runner from Hoisehess. I was told to bring a few barrels of our finest, courtesy of the Serpentine Matriarch! Something about a toast for Zeres’ success? I was told someone else had the message.”
The Shark Captain visibly brightened up as he eyed the barrels that had come from Pallass’ stores.
“You hear that, marines? Drinks are on the Serpentine Matriarch! Line up; I want some order, here! And try not to wake the other camps or they’ll get jealous! Here’s to the greatest city in Izril!”
He tapped the first barrel himself and filled a huge mug of frothing ale. Saliss had even chilled it, special, and the Drake smacked his lips. Femar was a huge figure, scarred and wielding a Relic-class spear of Zeres.
Saliss didn’t like him. He beamed as Femar nodded.
“That’s solid work, City Runner. Do you need a tip?”
“All taken care of, sir!”
“Then have a drink, I insist.”
“Oops, I can’t, I have to be on the road. But if I could have your autograph? That’d be one for the kids, yes it would, sir. Oh, how kind!”
Femar signed his name with a flourish, and Saliss beamed at him. Then he tucked the autograph into his pockets and ran for it.
Nineteen minutes and counting…he had to hit Manus fast. But Saliss did pause on the way to jog by the latrines.
“Anyone need toilet paper?”
Someone shouted, and Saliss hucked the piece of paper with Femar’s name on it.
“Don’t thank me!”
 
——
 
He was getting into it now. Mostly because there was little Saliss loved more than annoying people. And Manus?
One of his favorite cities to pick on. So, Saliss swanned into their camp after abandoning his City Runner disguise.
That didn’t work on Manus’ security, who’d challenge anything they didn’t have explicit orders about. It meant they were rigid and annoyingly inflexible, like the Wyvern fiasco, but relatively good against infiltration like this.
Well, unless you had a Potion of Invisibility and knew how they liked to place their detection spells and officers. No perimeter was flawless, and with Saliss’ ability—[Eyes of Appraisal]—he had already mapped theirs out.
He ducked under the eyeline of a Gnoll who had [See Invisibility] and was patrolling along a trench and palisade wall in which more detection runes were placed. Saliss did a huge leap across the trench to the wall, landing between two more wards, and then reached up.
Double backflip into the camp proper. Land on his back.
“Ow.”
Well, that was easy. Saliss dusted himself off. Manus would dig an entire trench around most camps nightly and put up a wall too. They used Chests of Holding to store the walls, but even so, their [Soldiers] worked hard on campaign. By contrast, Zeres and Pallass were both wall-less, though they did have fortifications as well. Oteslia had a bunch of odd roots in a huge swathe around their camp; it made them appear the least-defended, but said roots would attack anyone who walked into them and alert any [Druid] if you stepped onto them.
Each to their own. Now…he had about sixteen minutes. How to hit Manus with the flatulence of legends?
Water barrels were out again, but Manus wouldn’t fall for the drink-routine. Saliss’ head rotated as he speed-walked through the camp. Then he had it. Of course!
The showers.
Everyone got dirty on campaign, but a luxury, at least while they had magic, was a tent with a [Rain] spell attached to it. If you were lucky, the [Mage] could even warm the water, and the steam rising from one such tent made Saliss grin.
He counted three in Manus’ camp. Each one had a lot of [Soldiers] trooping in and out, and if it wasn’t the same as drinking the liquid, Saliss well knew that you’d absorb enough liquid through your scales, fur, or just mouth if you were chatting or drinking some water as it fell.
Best of all, Saliss had no need to even get in the tent and rig up some kind of complex aerosolization method with his Potions of Extreme Flatulence. He sped towards the first tent and poked around.
Manus’ [Soldiers] were trooping into the tent in squads. An entire company was dirty and grumbling as they rolled up, shoving into line and shouting for those inside to get out quick; they wanted to eat! Yells and jeers from within; a Gnoll wrapped up in just a towel kicked her way out of the tent flaps.
“Shut up out there! Some of us had to dig the latrines all day instead of sit with our tails up our asses drinking and shooting our mouths off!”
She was probably a [Sergeant], and she’d made the classic mistake of forgetting to bring a change of clothes. There were approving hoots and whistles from the male [Soldiers] as she stalked out followed by her squad; some of the male Drakes got the same from female [Soldiers].
Saliss had little interest in the naked form, contrary to what you might expect. However, a voice in his head that sounded like Onieva gave some of the male [Soldiers] a second glance. He was mostly searching for the water-source.
He’d been many things in his life. [Soldier], [Alchemist], loyal son of Pallass, rebellious daughter, Turnscale, spy…adventurer. One of the things the Old Man had tried to make Saliss into was a leader of Pallass, and that meant a [Strategist], in Chaldion’s eyes. So he’d had Saliss learn lessons about magic, even though the Drake had never become a [Mage].
One of the things you quickly realized about magic was that it was convenient, but pricey. Both in gold and magic. And [Mages] were lazy. So, if you had an ongoing [Rain] spell like this, you could draw from the atmosphere, but that was hard, and there were prohibitions against doing that because it could destabilize the weather. The Hivelands were proof of what weather spells could do to the climate.
No, any [Mage] would take a far easier way out. Like, say, a barrel of water sitting right behind the tent. An orderly was, in fact, sloshing more water into it with buckets. Saliss snorted as he saw the water was being heated in huge metal cauldrons by a team of [Soldiers].
The [Mages] aren’t even warming it; they’re just having the barrel filled with pre-heated water and using that for the [Rain] spell. He bet the water in this tent was barely lukewarm due to the way the spell would lose thermal energy.
Well, it made his job so much easier. Saliss poured in two vials of his potion into the barrel when the orderly stomped off for a refill, then added two-thirds of a vial after some thought. The fact no one was drinking this stuff would reduce the effect, but that should do it.
Then he scampered off. Twelve minutes, two more tents to hit.
Easy.
Saliss skipped around [Soldiers] walking towards their sleeping bags, past a group watching a scrying orb, another singing around a huge fire—he knew this. If not this camp, this life. He’d lived it all.
Lessons in swordsmanship, how to ride, how to perform strategy—
The Drake moved on autopilot, uncorking another vial as he remembered, for a second, being proud of being Chaldion’s grandson. He wondered if the old [Strategist] remembered it too.
 
——
 
“Strategist, a word please.”
Grand Strategist Chaldion turned, and his eyes nearly pinned in place the young [General] coming his way. One was flashing red, a gemstone embedded in his eye socket that gave him his nickname, the Cyclops.
Even in his early sixties, he had an air of danger about him that was only added to by his reputation for eviscerating anyone he found incompetent, both on and off the battlefield.
“General Duln. What?”
8th General Duln, the youngest [General] of Pallass and the only Dullahan—approved by Chaldion himself—faltered a step, then put his hands behind his back.
“Merely a question, sir. I have a comment of concern regarding the young Drake occupying one of our practice courts?”
“Is this a comment from you or the cowards who appointed you to bring the comments to me?”
Chaldion was half paying attention to Duln, half-focused on a map. He was peering at a map of Baleros and grimacing; another map showing Izril had red markings, indicating where they’d finally pushed the Nagas back into the sea. Now, it was counterattack time…the Lizardfolk of Baleros had to be stopped. Even the Humans of the North had agreed to a ceasefire in the Bloodfields to pursue an all-out campaign against them. A Terandrian Crusade was forming up, but it wouldn’t go without…
The Drake was using multiple Walled Cities as the basis for an army, drawing on other cities’ levies of troops and specialists by memory. He barely glanced out his window as Duln cleared his throat again.
“Strategist?”
“I know what Saliss is doing. Practicing. A notion some of our officers seem to have forgotten.”
“Yes, sir. But he hasn’t stopped practicing for the last twenty-three hours.”
Duln saw Chaldion smile, once. Such a rare expression, especially when it came to discussing his family. He had one son and two grandchildren—living. Two of his children, a son and daughter, had died already; one during the Naga wars and, the other before that, fighting a war against Salazsar’s Lord of Lightning. Chaldion murmured.
“He’s trying to learn a Sword Skill.”
“Learn it, sir?”
“Of course. It’s a waste of levels to be given one. He won’t need a sword all the time, regardless. His mind is too quick to be some simple [Sword General].”
As a [General] of martial abilities himself, Duln forbore comment. The Dullahan shifted.
“Sir, some of the officers, including myself, feel that the boy may injure himself.”
“Probably. That’s what healing potions are for.”
“He’s eight years old, Grand Strategist.”
At this, Chaldion did turn and give Duln a real glower. He glanced out the window, where he could see the practice courts below Pallass’ HQ. If he narrowed his eyes, he could see a tiny figure occupying the furthest court to the left. Still swinging a sword around.
Again, the Grand Strategist just smiled. He turned back to Duln and gave the young Dullahan the benefit of his opinion, because he thought Duln deserved it. Because the [General] had potential. If you had none, Chaldion cared little for you beyond your utility as a piece on the board.
Checkers, or sithrel, a Drake strategy-game involving taking territory with colored pieces. Overly complex and three-dimensional; it wasn’t popular, but Chaldion played such games for fun. He’d been known to challenge Drathians to their board games and practiced an assortment of such recreational games to keep his wits sharp. He was a known gambler in taverns that most people avoided. Any Drake who could see the literal [Path to Victory] wasn’t a fun opponent.
Chaldion’s good eye focused on the distant figure again. It seemed Saliss had stopped, fallen to his knees, and a few figures approached—but Chaldion saw the little shape straighten and the others fall back.
“You can’t teach willpower like that, Duln. That’s what Saliss gets. His father? He thinks you can get away with outthinking an opponent. Sometimes you can, like that little Fraerling [Strategist]. The adventurer. World’s Foundlings or whatever that pretentious group is called. But there will always be a moment when you’re out of clever plans and have to fight.”
Chaldion himself had a sword at his side, and though his advancing age kept him from using the weapon, Duln knew he’d been considered almost as good as some [Swordsmen] in the army. Chaldion nodded at the little figure.
“If he gains a Sword Skill, I promised to take him to Oteslia and the Meeting of Tribes. Let him buy whatever alchemical things he wants from their gardens for him and his friends.”
That was a treat indeed, but Duln still couldn’t credit that with the determination to last more than, say, four hours, much less how long Saliss had been swinging that sword. He turned to the Grand Strategist.
“Is that all the motivation young Saliss needs, Grand Strategist?”
“Of course not. He wants to impress me. I’ve put my hopes on him. I’m not making a [Slave] out of him, Duln. He can quit, if he wants. But I told Saliss that I see a future where he’ll matter to Pallass, to the Walled Cities. The boy understands what that means. So do you. We need Pallass to secure its future.”
Chaldion turned back to his war maps. He flexed one hand and grimaced at the grey scales appearing there. Then gazed at Duln. And it seemed to the Dullahan that Chaldion truly was as cold and calculating as they said, because he was envisioning a future where he was gone. The Cyclops’ eyes glimmered.
“Pallass needs…a Dragon of its own, Duln. Metaphorically speaking, of course. I intend we have one. The best one. So watch Saliss. He’s the best candidate I’ve found so far.”
Then he chuckled to himself, laughing at a joke only he seemed to get. After a moment, Duln saluted and stepped out of the war rooms.
Of course, Saliss wasn’t there for this conversation. General Duln told the boy what he’d heard two days later when a panting Drake was lying on his back, crying up at the rain on the practice courts. He was there when Saliss stood, and limbs trembling, swung his sword and cried a Skill to the heavens.
That night, Chaldion drank with every officer and underling he had, eyes flashing with delight. And when the Drake boy woke up, bandaged, with a map of Oteslia on his bedstand, and an almanac of the Gnollish tribes…he really had been delighted.
 
——
 
Saliss blinked as he stared into the second water barrel. He gazed at the empty vial in his hands and realized he’d been wasting time.
Four minutes left and he’d just been standing over the second tent’s water barrel. Saliss shook himself and turned.
Some people called that child abuse. Well, the Old Man had gotten his wish, just never what he wanted. 
This is why Saliss hated the army. Too many memories.
The third and last water tent was the smallest by far, and most ragged, but the [Mage] who’d done the magic had put a heating spell on the tent, so it was, conversely, probably the most enjoyable. The steam wafted across the ground, and it was indeed hot as it billowed out of the tent flaps. Bad ventilation though; it wasn’t coming out of the top but along the sides. Saliss was strolling up towards the water barrel, and he loaded six vials into his claws.
They might actually blow the tent skywards after this. He was feeling vindictive. Saliss pulled the barrel’s lid up and felt a tingle on the back of his neck.
The sword stabbed through the spot where his back had been, and Saliss saw it sweep through the air as his attacker moved around. Blindly; he saw the sword lashing in every direction in an attack pattern meant to catch invisible foes. Saliss crouched behind the water-barrel, a highly-concentrated acid in hand, then saw the figure stop.
“I know you’re there. You have five seconds to reveal yourself before I trigger the entire camp on alarm, and I don’t think either of us wants that level of chaos.”
The voice was familiar. Saliss poked his head up as he saw the grey-scaled Drake peering about. Then Captain Lyssander took in a deep breath.
He was about to shout when Saliss appeared, hands raised.
“You got me! I surrender! Don’t attack!”
Lyssander turned and grinned when he saw Saliss—then ducked the Potion of Silence that Saliss threw.
Damn, he was expecting that? He cut the second vial in half, but since it contained Sticky Webs, it still nailed him to the ground. Saliss began to pour a vial into the barrel, but Lyssander shouted.
“Company, out of the showers! We’ve got a prankster on the loose!”
His bellow made Saliss wince, and there were shouts of alarm from the tent. Drakes and Gnolls shot out of it, well aware of what kind of pranks you might get up to. No one wanted to be dyed or whatnot.
Saliss didn’t bother pouring the tonic in; instead, he strolled over and began kicking the young [Captain] with a foot. Gently.
“Nice job, kid. You’ve saved your company, but I hope you don’t breathe deep tonight. It’s gonna be a noisy one.”
He was actually annoyed by his failure. He should have nailed the Drake with a second Potion of Silence, but he’d expected to have a second. Good thinking—Saliss frowned.
“How’d you know I was here?”
The [Captain] grinned, despite the kicks to his side.
“After General Rigrel had the horses’ lines cut? I had half my company on lookout for a prank. Drakes are Drakes, sir.”
Good instincts and a good understanding of Drake culture. Saliss stopped kicking the [Captain]. He heard [Soldiers] running this way and gave the Drake a mocking salute.
“Well done, then. I suppose you win this round; I’ll remember it next time.”
“Uh oh. Can I buy your forgiveness with a drink or two, Alchemist?”
The Drake grinned at Saliss without fear or the usual annoyance, despite the annoying webbing on him. Saliss just eyed him.
Why the hell had Mrsha mentioned him? He was certainly quick-witted and good with a sword, but Saliss had seen better. No…then again, how the hell had he noticed Saliss was there when he clearly couldn’t see through an invisibility spell?
Saliss coughed.
“Maybe I’ll be forgiving if you let me know how you picked up I was there. I know I don’t smell; bathing and all that. And I’m sure I didn’t leave a trail.”
He had nudged the water barrel or something? The [Captain] beamed in actual delight.
“Oh, that was the steam, sir. I know Pallass loves their [Invisibility] potions, so I saw your trail in the steamclouds. And we tossed water on the ground so we could see tracks.”
What a rookie mistake…Saliss glanced over his shoulder and realized when he’d passed by the entrance of the tents, he must have left a trail in the steam! That’s how you died! Well, he hadn’t been taking this seriously enough.
He thought about pouring the entire Potion of Extreme Flatulence down Lyssander’s throat, then gave up as some of the Drake [Captain]’s people ran over. Saliss nodded to the Drake, then fled, arms flailing and laughing as they gave chase. In the distance, he heard the first shouts of alarm and what sounded like miniature explosions coming from Zeres’ camp.
All in all, a victory. Saliss laughed as he saw the City of Waves’ camp turn into chaos, [Soldiers] running around, away from the noxious stink, shouting, and he fancied he could even hear Femar’s roaring voice over all of it. Then Manus’ camp had the same problem, if less nasty thanks to Lyssander.
It took them a while to realize what the culprit of the potions were, so more [Soldiers] got dosed. A very smug Pallass cheered Saliss as he waved his claws and danced back through the camp.
He enjoyed himself for all of eight minutes. Then the amusement and hilarity and sense of triumph faded, and Saliss sat in his tent and then stared up at the ceiling.
What was the point of all that?
He’d forgotten somehow already. What a damn waste of time and effort.
Saliss rolled over and went to sleep.
 
——
 
The next morning, Saliss checked in with Esor, who noted his report about Lyssander foiling his attempts and jotted it down.
“General Edellein didn’t notice the lack of a third tent being hit. Still, that’s interesting. I’ll mark Lyssander as a potential talent.”
“To headhunt? He’s top of Rigrel’s horse manure pile. Esor, what is going on?”
Saliss was marginally more polite to Esor today, because he was curious about the state of, well, things. He realized after seeing all the troops on the march that there were a lot more than he’d thought.
“Just as you said, Saliss. Pallass is outnumbering the contributions of any other Walled City into this New Lands expedition combined. We’ve sent about eighty thousand troops this way, with more to come if we find anything that warrants reinforcements.”
“Eighty th—”
That was an army’s worth in and of itself! Esor clarified.
“Spread out, of course. They’re setting up waystations, forming garrisons—only a fraction are marching with us.”
“…I don’t want to know how much this is costing Pallass, do I?”
They could spend so much money they made his yearly alchemy budget look small. Esor shrugged.
“Edellein is betting on the New Lands, Saliss. For context, General Rigrel is operating with about ten thousand combat-capable units. But after last night…”
“Yeah. Odd to prank an ally, especially one you want to cozy up to. Old-fashioned isn’t enough of an excuse for that.”
“He’s…a Fortress Commander past his prime, Saliss. My impression is that Manus took border units and put them under the command of Rigrel. One last campaign for a [General] and combat experience for underutilized units.”
Great. So Manus was seeing this campaign entirely different from Pallass. Saliss chewed that over.
“Rigrel’s not a good leader.”
A helpless look from Esor.
“He used to be, from all my notes on him. But he can’t keep pace with his men. He has to ride, and it means he’s not the rough-and-tumble [General] who could throw a few punches and drink in the mess hall. You know, Sserys-type?”
“Yeah, well…adapt or die. Let’s assume half of what we’re sending is currently at the New Lands. Good estimate? That’s my headcount.”
“You count too well. We’ll outnumber any other army’s forces by far, though the Sharkcaptain proves that some of the other Walled Cities are taking this seriously. It’s possible that Dragonspeaker Luciva is hoping Rigrel’s instincts will make up for his age and, ah, temperament.”
Was that because he was a Gnoll and she thought he just had affinity with the wilds? No, Luciva wasn’t that stupid. Saliss thought it over.
“He’s good enough to buddy-buddy with Edellein. Probably has a few more social-type Skills than he’d like to admit. But Manus can’t be happy with him. Give the Sharkcaptain this, he’s like Rigrel in his prime. A bluff idiot you’d follow if you like him. Don’t trust Manus with an important flank.”
That was his assessment, and Esor concurred. He glanced up at Saliss.
“Morale’s low, anyways, Saliss. It might have been that the pranks weren’t even Rigrel’s choice; someone just did them and he had to take credit.”
Saliss paused by the tent flap as he strode out, a Potion of Dog’s Hearing in one hand. He made a face.
“Well, that’s even worse.”
 
——
 
There were two results from the pranks last night. The first was that both Zeres and Manus lodged complaints with Pallass, and more pranks ensued, just not on the level of Saliss’ revenge. No more horselines being cut either.
Edellein was happy, though, and all too willing to insincerely issue apologies on behalf of Saliss. All the forces got moving towards the New Lands despite the incidents, though much of Manus and all of Zeres lagged behind.
That meant that healthier elements, like Lyssander’s company and Pallass’ forces, were first on the march that morning, and it so happened that Saliss was up bright and early. Thus, he and Captain Yorm were jogging along with the first group that included Captain Lyssander and his men.
They seemed rather pleased at having avoided his potions, and the good-natured [Captain] himself was so cheerful that during one of their rest stops, he asked if Yorm’s company wanted to join his in training.
You knew you had a problem if you stopped marching to train. However, Saliss noted only Lyssander’s detachment was training on the go. It wasn’t just the flatulence problems—on his walk around their camp, he’d picked up on what Esor meant.
Morale was low. He’d heard several fights being broken up, and he couldn’t blame that solely on Rigrel being an idiot for starting this sabotage war.
Pallass wasn’t hard to figure out. 2nd Army’s losses were felt everywhere; even if they were presenting a united front, your average [Soldier] was rattled. Hearing that the Slayers of 2nd Army had gone down to a man fighting a Draconic Titan and Goblin Lord…and knowing that Edellein had made some calls that had got people killed?
Better almost to be distracted with feuding with another Walled City. But Manus…the more Saliss eyed the army Rigrel was bringing, the less convinced the Drake was that Rigrel had a solid command here. Certainly, Lyssander’s group seemed to operate almost independently of his chain of command.
Captain Yorm was impressed, though. But anyone who trained probably impressed one of Grimalkin’s students. He had to stop to join in.
“We don’t do much beyond sparring, Captain Lyssander, but we do have a portable weights set that Magus Grimalkin gifted us. We could set it up tonight if your company’s interested.”
Lyssander’s eyes lit up as Captain Yorm spoke.
“I’ve tried that gymnasium stuff! It’s amazing what Pallass’ Sinew Magus comes up with! I’ve always wanted to visit, you know. We mostly do sparring, though.”
He nodded to his company, who were indeed swinging…swords? Saliss was sipping from his water flask, but he eyed the Drakes.
“Weird to see a sword-company. Mostly it’s spears.”
Drakes loved spears. Their famous formations had triumphed over many a foe, and it was common practice to issue any new [Soldier] with a spear and shield. Lyssander tapped his sword hilt.
“Well, I’m a sword-user, and my company ended up being specialists, sir. Lyssander’s Swords. It’s a stupid nickname, but, well—we’re a bit unconventional, or so they tell me.”
What that meant soon became clear as Manus’ forces practiced. Normally, you had lines of [Soldiers] who’d practice one move. Like the old shield-and-poke. They’d attack training dummies as a [Sergeant] bellowed orders at them; you just wanted your [Soldiers] to learn a few core moves. That way, when they were in the thick of combat, they wouldn’t try something fancy and just do what they knew. All you had to do was hold the line and poke a charging enemy dead if you were lucky.
If you had spears. But swords? Swords were a bit more fiddly. They were shorter in reach, and you had to know more forms with a sword. Of course, Lyssander’s people practiced several moves for thirty minutes, like the overhand slash, various thrusts and even parries, but then they began to spar en-masse.
Fifty Drakes and Gnolls versus fifty. They used practice-swords, but one side charged the other in a rather aggressive assault, and the other had to hold them off. It wasn’t just practice blows, but a free-for-all, and Lyssander himself was in the mix. That was still in line with what Saliss expected, though. What made him and Yorm do a double-take was when Lyssander—who was on the defending side—shouted.
“Fall back! Fall back! Ten steps—”
His side was retreating across the ground. The aggressors pushed them hard, shouting, and then Lyssander’s group fell back another ten steps, shedding ‘dead’ [Soldiers] and forming a shrinking circle of blades. After ten minutes, he whistled.
“Alright, switch! Sergeant Marri, you’re on defense!”
Then his group attacked, and the other [Soldiers] were retreating. Saliss blinked, and Yorm commented.
“Does Manus practice fighting retreats?”
“I doubt it. This is just…training. It makes sense. His is a mobile company, so you’d have to fall back in good order like this, and it gives both sides the experience of attacking and defending with swords.”
But it was exceptionally odd to see, because Saliss couldn’t remember seeing that kind of training since he’d been a kid. That stupid axiom that had become so popular twenty years ago flashed into both Pallassians’ minds.
“Drakes don’t run. No one else in Manus’ forces is moving like that.”
Indeed, some other [Captains] and their companies were giving Lyssander’s Swords a familiar expression of disdain. Yorm murmured.
“So Captain Lyssander came up with that himself? That might explain part of his unpopularity. But I’m surprised Manus allows it.”
Saliss could answer that one. He shrugged his slim shoulders.
“Manus lets companies vary their efforts so long as they produce results. It’s that way from the top down. Ever seen Spearmaster Lulv and his Spears of Manus? They race around stabbing things; you can’t train that normally. Your squad is the same, isn’t it, Captain?”
Yorm grunted.
“True enough. We’d better put in some effort as well, not just stand around. Spellarm Squad, muster up!”
He only had about two dozen under his command, but they were all the muscled magic-users. Saliss watched idly as they practiced shooting the wands they carried, then switched to close-combat.
Spellblades. Grimalkin had taught them well. If someone managed to beat Captain Yorm’s wands, they’d run into his spear, which he could fight well with solo or in a squad. And if they somehow disarmed him, he knew close-combat grappling moves as well.
Saliss imagined that Yorm’s squad would rove around the battlefield, attacking targets of opportunity like enemy [Mages] or [Archers]. He grinned, imagining some spindly Wistram-[Mage] eating a punch from Yorm.
The [Alchemist] wasn’t training since he didn’t train like the [Soldiers], nor did he want the attention. You might think that he was bored, but Saliss didn’t mind watching. There was something…scenic about watching Captain Yorm grappling with one of his squadmates in the grass.
Lots of sweat beading on his fur, and you could see it running in rivulets down his abdominal muscles, which were visible on the thinner coat of his front fur. He’d stripped off his leather armor probably to avoid getting it dirty, and the Drake he was grappling with, also male, was twining his tail around one of Yorm’s legs as he tried to sweep the [Captain]. His arm-muscles were bulging as the two pivoted, trying to throw the other.
Again, Onieva would have preferred to see Ishkr doing the grappling, but it was enough to be not-bored. Saliss let her observe until he heard a panting voice remark too-loudly behind him.
“Ancestors, what a sight! That Captain Yorm’s a tall drink of water! I’ve never seen muscles move like that!”
For a moment, Saliss almost forgot where he was, and he was turning to tell Mirn to shut the hell up. Only, it wasn’t Mirn’s voice. The speaker was too young, and he was shading his eyes as sweat rolled off his own grey scales with a cheerful grin without even trying to hide what he was looking at or lower his voice.
Saliss froze as Captain Lyssander pointed at Yorm and the training squad. He saw Lyssander lick his lips, and his eyes never left Yorm.
“Here I thought Manus had the best training, but there’s a sight for sore eyes. You mind if I sit, Alchemist? We reek a bit, but there’s nothing like getting a workout in the morning!”
He flopped down, and the [Alchemist] said not a word. He stared at Lyssander as the Drake kept watching Yorm, gulping water from a flask. And Saliss’ first thought was—
Oh, no. Nope, this is just bait. Or a trick. Or I misheard him. Or…
Then he saw Lyssander peer at the sun, uncork his waterflask, pour the rest of the water over his head, and shake his head out. He slicked back his neck spines, spraying the water out, and then shouted.
“Hey, Swords, take a break! Get over here and rest up! Let’s see how the Sinew Magus’ people do it! Corporal Riss, stop playing with your sword and relax. We’ve got a full march and we’re on flier-duty so save the effort!”
He sprang up, then slung an arm around one of the Drakes still stubbornly practicing. He dragged the protesting Corporal over, pushed him onto the ground, and flung himself down. Then he leaned on the Drake’s arm.
“No one’s moving until I’m moving. Phew! I don’t think we need to practice hand-to-hand like Yorm’s lot, but I’ll be damned if I ever try brawling with him!”
He grinned, eyes flicking back to Yorm’s command as the corporal, embarrassed, tried to edge away from his captain. But Lyssander just turned and punched him in the side.
“No moving, Corporal! I’ll demote you to a pillow.”
“And toss him into your tent, Captain Lyss?”
That came from a Gnoll, Sergeant Marri, who grinned as she trooped over with her squad. Several of the [Soldiers] gave Saliss a glance that he read—
Nervousness? Trepidation? But Lyssander just snorted.
“My pillow’s better than Corporal Riss. I’ll sleep on your ass before Riss, Sergeant. Though, mind you, I bet Yorm’s lot would be hard as wood planks.”
She grinned as she threw herself down, and there were chuckles and, again, glances at Saliss.
“Just so long as the Alchemist doesn’t spike our drinks with whatever he hit Zeres with. I could hear the Sharkcaptain farting across camp all night long! Much less the latrines—I hear there was blowback.”
Everyone shuddered and eyed Saliss. He managed a faint response.
“Yeah, uh, that’s, uh—a hazard of the potion. Careful where you aim when something might come out.”
“There’s a weapon of war. We could just have our [Soldiers] pull down their pants, lift their tails, and aim. I wouldn’t charge that.”
Lyssander joked, and Saliss just gazed at the [Captain], still taking his ease, relaxed as could be. No matter how hard Saliss looked, he didn’t see any…irony on Lyssander’s face. Or even self-consciousness.
No.
No, it couldn’t be…
When Captain Yorm finished sparring and strode over to ask if Lyssander cared to do some mixed-sparring between their groups, Saliss saw it. And once he did, it was so obvious. To everyone, it seemed—
Except Lyssander.
 
——
 
Lyssander’s Swords were still on their punishment duty waving in fliers, and it seemed to be a known fact that if there was dirty work, they tended to get it. However, like many good officers, Lyssander had the affection of his [Soldiers].
But not just affection—there was a level of defensiveness that Saliss would have taken for the company having a chip on their shoulders until he’d figured it out. Then he saw the hints, and they were everywhere.
“Hoi, Captain Hiress, is that you? Ancestors, how the hell have you been? I was sorry to hear about Lieutenant Comois—”
Lyssander met a fellow [Captain] he’d clearly known from the Officer Trials and instantly dashed over to throw an arm around the Drake’s shoulders and give him a hug. Which wasn’t, in and of itself, odd.
Nor was appreciating someone’s physique. Dead gods, most [Soldiers] who met Yorm for the first time had to comment on the Gnoll being so fit. It was just that Lyssander could get distracted in the middle of reminiscing with Captain Hiress and point.
“Dead gods, look at that man’s thighs. Who the hell is that?”
He was pointing to a scrying orb of Lord Xitegen on the news, replaying Captain Zevara’s exploits around Liscor and Pallass. And again, who could deny that Xitegen, the Thigh Lord of House Terland, was a man blessed with amazing thighs?
It was just—how Lyssander said it, maybe. With a bit too much appreciation? Or enthusiasm for the male form? Or he noticed it too much? Or he was a bit more ready to lay hands on fellow [Soldiers]—in a respectful way.
For instance, he caught one of his [Soldiers] with filthy neck spines, so he spat on one claw and hand-groomed the protesting [Soldier]’s ‘hair’. Then slapped the [Soldier] on the shoulder.
“We’re supposed to look good for all the bigwigs flying in, [Soldier]. Wash—eugh, do you even use soap? I’ll have your entire squad scrub you with a broom if I have to!”
“I had to cut it short because of the [Alchemist], sir!”
“Oh—well, you’re forgiven today. But watch it!”
Lyssander pointed an outraged finger at the [Soldier] and his squad, who joked about his smell alerting the enemy from miles away. Then Lyssander dashed back to Captain Hiress, apologizing, and the [Captain] gave him much the same gaze that Saliss and Yorm were.
That of someone picking up on something that Saliss felt was obvious—too obvious. And doing that glance around to get everyone else’s opinions.
Is he serious?
It was Captain Yorm who broached the subject with that Grimalkin directness that you grew to know and debatably love.
“…It may be presumptuous, Alchemist Saliss, but I think I have identified an, ah, reason for the disdain shown to Captain Lyssander’s company.”
“You don’t say.”
Saliss didn’t glance at Yorm, but he was suddenly hearing alarm bells ringing. He didn’t know what the Gnoll had been told, but Yorm continued after a moment.
“I, ah, heard a rumor…you had made significant statements to several members of 1st Army and Pallass’ Watch about your feelings regarding Turnscales.”
“I may have done.”
Don’t tense up, he’ll notice. Yorm glanced at Saliss, then folded his arms uncomfortably, like Grimalkin.
“A cousin…? I would never spread rumors, Alchemist, but you may understand the, uh, phenomena more than I? Magus Grimalkin did give us brief lectures on such matters, but he was more focused on sexual disease in the army.”
Oh, he didn’t know. General Edellein must have kept his mouth shut, then. Saliss relaxed and mustered a wry smile.
“I’d hate for any rumors to spread, Captain Yorm. You know how those get people hurt or fired from their jobs. And I’d hate to find someone spreading rumors and hit them repeatedly with a club.”
“Absolutely, Alchemist. It’s just that—are you seeing what I’m seeing?”
Saliss stared at Lyssander as Captain Hiress excused himself too-hurriedly and saw the moment of hurt flash across the young [Captain]’s face. He murmured.
“Oh, yes. Yes, I do. I can’t believe it.”
But how the hell did this happen? Saliss was so incredulous it was fascinating in some horrific not-funny way. Lyssander was as obvious as the sun. Mind you, some people didn’t pick up on it; it wasn’t as if it was tattooed on the Drake’s forehead. But even so—!
Surely some Sentry had a word with this idiot. Or a Mason or Architect—
Those were ranks in Turnscale hierarchy, such as it was. There tended to be a bar in every city that had, well, people who understood each other. Each group had older Turnscales who looked out for the younger ones, led the way, protected them, or built a space where they could gather…because being a Turnscale got you ostracized at best, killed or exiled at worst.
It was not safe to act like Lyssander was doing. He set off so many alarm bells in Saliss’ head that the Drake fancied they were almost audible. So why was he…?
Lyssander rejoined Yorm and Saliss, shaking his head.
“Looks like Captain Hiress isn’t in the mood to chat. A shame, but I get Lieutenant Comois hitting the army hard. I thought that it’d take a Dragon to kill him. I can’t say that I actually liked Comois, but, well…he was nigh-on unbeatable in single combat.”
He shrugged, sighing, and gestured to the road.
“Our group is back to the march. Will you join us, you two?”
Saliss and Yorm exchanged a glance and nodded. They joined Lyssander, jogging ahead, but now the two were fishing, as it was. And boy, Lyssander was a school of fish that had never seen bait before. The Gnoll coughed into one fist.
“I heard you were often paired against Lieutenant Comois, Captain Lyssander. No love lost? I knew the Lieutenant, and he could be rather prickly at times.”
Lyssander sighed and glanced around for more of Pallass’ army before nodding.
“It wasn’t that we were always paired off—we were clashing for 1st place a lot of the time. I don’t want to brag, but I was top of my class with a sword in Manus. The problem was, Comois was the [Lieutenant of Perfection]. His [Perfect Slash], [Perfect Parry], [Perfect Sneer]—you run into him for the first time and he puts you on the ground in a second. There was this poor Stitch-girl all the way from Chandrar, and he cut off both her arms in a single move. Nasty, and he was reprimanded, but he got away with it because, well, Stitch-girl. She sewed them back on.”
“So you didn’t like him? Looks like his people don’t really care for you either. I can relate. People hate me for some reason, like Femar. I can never tell why.”
Lyssander grinned at Saliss before shaking his head.
“Me? I didn’t care for Comois’ attitude, but I think he just never liked me, personally. I tried to get to know him, but he couldn’t stand my guts. There was a year we were best friends, then—? It happens. I must be annoying to people.”
His smile turned rueful, and Saliss and Yorm exchanged another glance behind Lyssander’s back. Yorm’s brows rose, and he did a quick gesture to Saliss. The Drake tapped the side of his head repeatedly, shook his head, and pointed back. Yorm cleared his throat.
“Speaking honestly, Captain Lyssander—”
“Call me Lyss, Captain Yorm. All my friends do.”
“Very well, Lyss—you weren’t in charge with the debacle around General Edellein’s Wyverns flying in, were you? General Rigrel just blamed you for that. Is that—common in Manus?”
Lyssander hesitated. He glanced back at them and seemed to choose his words carefully.
“No…but the old Gnoll’s never liked my unit. We were attached to his fort; saw some action with monster nests, which is how I made [Captain]. I think we’re just too unconventional. Rigrel always tells me I’m too much of a nonconformist because of how I lead my command.”
“Oh, like retreating in battle? Very un-Drake-like.”
Saliss spoke, straight-faced, and Lyssander hesitated, rubbing at his neck-spines.
“You think so? We get taught in Manus that General Sserys’ famous line isn’t gospel. You have to perform tactical withdrawals, so why not practice it? History teaches us that we won a lot of victories by baiting opponents into an attack.”
The [Alchemist] shrugged, privately thinking that Lyssander had been paying attention in class and a lot of officers and even strategists had been sleeping when that line was delivered.
“Still un-Drake-like. Why, you remind me of Sserys, Captain Lyssander!”
The Drake blinked, and Yorm opened his mouth then shut it hurriedly.
“Sserys? I’ll take the compliment, Alchemist Saliss, but how?”
“Oh, he’d retreat all the time. Mercenary General that he was—I remember him. Don’t you, Yorm?”
“Erh, before my time, Alchemist.”
To his annoyance, Saliss realized that even Yorm was too young to remember Sserys as anything but the war-hero of the First Antinium War. He sighed loudly.
“Just…take it from me, okay? So, Rigrel hates your unit, Captain Lyss? Not the most popular bunch, are you?”
He nudged Lyssander a few times, grinning, and the [Captain] coughed, flushing.
“Well, among officers. Lots of the [Soldiers] get on just fine with my command. I know it’s me. It’s that I’m too pushy, I think? Too strident about my opinions? I can’t do the political dance with other officers. Ancestors know I try, but I just somehow put my foot in my mouth—”
He sighed, and this time, Yorm nudged Saliss. Saliss shook his head. The Gnoll jogged over and nudged Saliss harder; the counter-shove nearly tossed Yorm into a bush patch, so the Gnoll coughed.
“I, uh—I don’t notice anything objectionable, Captain Lyss. But then, Magus Grimalkin is also somewhat of a loose cannon. And Alchemist Saliss is as much a pariah.”
“Yep, no taste at all. Lyssander could be as rude as a Creler, and how would I know?”
Saliss remarked blandly. Yorm’s mouth worked a few seconds.
“Has…has anyone indicated what your objectionable trait might be, Lyss?”
They both stared at the Drake as he jogged along, frowning seriously. He scratched at his chin.
“Well…in Manus, you get all kinds of officers looking in on you. Even High Command! I remember Spearmaster Lulv himself wanted to see if I was actually a candidate for [Swordmaster] training. He kicked me and a bunch of poor sods up and down a mountain for two weeks and said I had good instincts and potential—that’s how I got put into the officer program to begin with. But he also said I need to ‘shut up more and think about what I say’. Which I’ve tried, but somehow General Rigrel has it out for me even when I’m not on duty.”
He heaved a huge sigh, and Yorm spread his arms. He made a thinking gesture as Saliss just stared at him, then thrust both hands at Lyss’ back with a pleading look for Saliss. The [Alchemist] relented and felt a sinking sensation in his stomach as he jogged forwards until he was next to Lyssander. He grinned hugely, but internally, he was thinking.
This can’t be what I think it is. If so, then this guy is rarer than Taletevirion. How the hell did Manus not beat it out of him? Could it be he doesn’t…know?
“Tell me about Comois, Captain Lyss. You said you two were best buds? How’d you fall out? Maybe it was a bad prank or something? Believe me, that’s how I ruin relationships. I can’t count how many Named-rankers I hate. Glasiaad, Zeter, Romuleus—no, wait, he’s dead; I killed him—lay it on me, a professional unpopular person!”
Lyssander hesitated, then shrugged, seeming genuinely uncomfortable and remorseful.
“I…I don’t know. At first, well, the first time he beat me in a single move, Comois was aloof—you’d know that if you ever met him. But he did say that I was the closest person to parrying his strike, so I got to talking, and he didn’t mind the compliments! We’d head off and spar and trade tips whenever we had the Officer Trials, which was actually monthly at some points. They really get you competitive with the other Walled Cities—and then one night we have a huge falling out. I said something wrong when we were out on the town, and we got into a brawl. After that, he tried to take me out every time we met.”
“Brawl? What about?”
Lyssander was staring into the distance as they ran towards that horizon where the New Lands began to rise upwards.
“Oh, something stupid. There was a Drake [Waitress] he was trying to impress in Manus, and he was freshening up, so I was giving him a hand. Then he got all upset and claimed I was getting too personal. Called me a Turnscale, so I punched him in the face.”
Lyssander grinned sadly at Saliss, and the [Alchemist] didn’t know what kind of face he was making.
“Imagine that! It was the most childish thing I’ve ever heard from him. Imagine being a…pervert like that. You’d think they were around every corner the way people toss that insult out.”
“I see.”
Saliss whispered. He stared at Lyssander so hard he felt like his eyes were burning.
“Ever met one?”
The young [Captain] gave Saliss the most puzzled of looks.
“What? No. Don’t they get tossed out of the city or something? Hey, is Turnscale actually a group? I thought it just meant, like, someone sick or off. Lulv asked me the same thing, and he didn’t believe I’d never met one.”
“Oh—you find some, now and then.”
That was all Saliss managed. Yorm was blinking far too rapidly, and Lyssander just jogged along, shaking his head.
“Well, that’s got nothing to do with me. I’ve been in the army since I was a kid. And I’m excited for the New Lands! It beats being on Rigrel’s bad side and quarreling with other officers. I’m glad I’ve met a few friendly faces in Pallass. Here’s to more, eh?”
He pumped a fist, and Saliss smiled at him until he couldn’t stand it any more and ran ahead, outspeeding both Yorm and Lyssander, to the latter’s delight. But Saliss had to run until he lost Lyssander. He felt like he’d be sick, otherwise.
This was not what he wanted. Not at all.
 
——
 
Now he saw it. It was so obvious. Put aside the fact that Mrsha had given him the first clue; Saliss was pretty sure he’d have picked up the rest within a day or two even without her help.
The way Lyssander seemed to be a pariah within his own army. The fact that no one had pulled him aside for a quick chat—and it sounded like even his superiors like Lulv had noticed. But Saliss could just imagine Lulv, who had the empathy of two nails lying on the ground, trying to figure this one out.
How did you tell this kid to knock it off when he didn’t know what he was doing? You could write him off easily as being just a friendly, attentive [Captain]. Or, if you paid attention—you might really hate what you saw, hence General Rigrel’s attitude.
It was also clear that much of Pallass’ army knew Lyssander, probably from Lieutenant Comois. Saliss could just imagine how that uptight [Lieutenant of Perfection] had reacted to the idea of Lyssander being a Turnscale.
And he doesn’t even know what a Turnscale is. Again, that wasn’t even that surprising. It was an insult. Someone calls you a Turnscale, you punch them. It all fit, and Saliss hated the jigsaw puzzle.
So he did the obvious thing: he avoided Lyssander. He didn’t want to deal with this. He didn’t need to deal with this. He just wanted to get to the New Lands, find seith, and go home.
Of course, Lyssander noticed when Saliss didn’t eat in the mess halls, appear during the evening training, or have time to join the Drake on the march. If he seemed crestfallen or if his company gave Saliss hostile glances—the [Alchemist] didn’t care.
Someone would tell Lyssander what was going on at some point, and what a—painful conversation that would be. Finding out you were something that your species hated. Realizing you had to hide it.
The irony was that Saliss just bet most of Lyssander’s company weren’t Turnscales. They just saw their commander as worth it, despite his proclivities…or they admired him as an officer more than they hated the Turnscale part. Yes, that would be why Manus kept him around; the City of War hated wasting talent. It was probably the only city where Lyssander could emerge, ironically.
Saliss roamed ahead rather than deal with Lyssander, and only Captain Yorm could even keep up with him, sometimes having to catch up as Saliss ran past everything. Towards the place he wanted to be:
The New Lands. But he couldn’t outpace the army he was attached to, and so Saliss had to endure, well, their stupidity. He hadn’t realized it would come to him. Normally, you didn’t bother the crazy Saliss of Lights unless you needed a potion or something exploded, but he hadn’t factored in the other thing that had happened:
The Goblin King.
 
——
 
Salazsar’s forces and Fissival’s caught up on the fifth day of marching as they were a literal stone’s throw away from the New Lands. Everyone was busy restructuring; the word was out.
“No magical items! If you have one, it goes in the Chests of Holding or else you lose it! Personal charms, trinkets, anything goes in the Chest of Holding! Get a receipt from the [Quartermasters] for your items! This is your last warning!”
A Garuda was flying above the [Soldiers] turning in their gear so they could be magically shielded as they entered the New Lands. It meant each army was going to lose a lot of their immediate combat potential; Pallass was hit second-worst of the lot.
“Not only will most of our [Mages] need to fuel up the Chests of Holding to protect our magic, but any magic-using group like Captain Yorm’s will be hamstrung! Our Alchecorps will store all their potions until we see combat. The [Strategists] tell me they’ll be able to fight in a battle…but we’ll need to distribute our magic before any major engagement.”
Edellein was grousing to General Rigrel, who was nodding with a similarly lemon-faced expression. Pallass hadn’t, as of yet, committed to any other Walled City for an alliance, but Edellein was certainly being hosted by each Walled City day and night.
The Gnollish [General] speared a bite of fish on one fork, glancing at Saliss, who had the honor of joining the [Generals]’ table for breakfast. Saliss was mostly interested in the better vittles and the discussion of what was going on.
He didn’t expect a question to come his way. But one of Manus’ senior officers, a Gnoll woman, leaned over the table.
“Adventurer Saliss. I hear you’ll be one of the first into the New Lands today. If I may…I never caught you at the mess hall, and I have a burning question to ask.”
Saliss swallowed his bite of food.
“No, I can’t cure whatever it is. Please talk to Alchemist Xif in Pallass.”
Everyone in earshot chuckled. So did the [Commander] and shook her head.
“No, though speaking of Pallass and, ah, Liscor…it’s on the news again, that strange city. Some Watch Captain. But I have to know. The incident a while back, where the moon—cracked?”
Everyone in earshot went silent, even the two [Generals]. Edellein shifted uncomfortably as the [Commander] looked around, then at Saliss.
“What went on at that inn? I know what we all saw on the scrying orb and in the skies.”
“That pink meteor.”
Someone murmured, but the Gnoll woman was focused on Saliss. She smiled with all her teeth in a friendly grin, for a Gnoll or Drake.
“What happened? They said it was the Goblin King, but you were there, [Alchemist]. There wasn’t much to see from the aerial view. We saw all kinds of incredible things, but you were on the ground, weren’t you?”
“Yep.”
Saliss didn’t quite know where she was going, but the [Commander] lowered her voice.
“So…what really went down there? Under the illusions? What was it really? Was it the Demons? They said there was a giant Harpy.”
The Named-rank adventurer blinked at the Gnoll [Commander], then he glanced around the table. Everyone from Edellein on down was gazing his way, and he turned to the [Major].
“It was the Goblin King. Same guy, different body. Second time’s no more pleasant than the first.”
She grinned, and he felt his tail twitch under the table.
“Come on, Alchemist. We’re all officers here. You can at least hint, can’t you?”
His face was perfectly straight, but internally, Saliss didn’t know what to say. Lean into the lie? Tell the truth?
Would you even believe me if I told you? Small wonder she was treating this like a coverup. He barely believed it, and he was there.
“It was the Goblin King, Commander. That’s all I can say.”
Carefully, Saliss drained his cup, and she sighed.
“Damn, that high-clearance, huh? I wish it was even a believable lie—one of our Wall Ladies got wrapped up in the fighting, Rafaema. But she just snarled at me when I asked.”
A fresh breadroll bounced off her head as she turned to reach for the water pitcher. The Gnoll’s head swung back around, and Saliss innocently took a drink of water. She reached for the pitcher, and he bounced the empty cup off her head.
“Alchemist!”
Edellein called out warningly as the [Commander] shot to her feet. She glowered.
“I’m just asking questions, Alchemist! If you won’t tell me the truth, don’t get annoyed at me for asking what everyone wants to know!”
Saliss gave her a bright smile as he flipped a fork up and down. She snarled—
And blinked as the fork flashed past her ear. It took a tuft of hair with it and exited the command tent, punching through the fabric. The whistling sound it made had half the officers on their feet. They stared at Saliss as the Gnoll woman felt at her ear. The [Alchemist] just smiled at her.
“The Goblin King isn’t a funny guy. I’m a fun guy. When he charges, everything dies. Word to the wise if you live long enough to meet him. After all, I’ve met him once, at least. Or do you want to doubt that too?”
She said nothing, and her face turned uncertain. The tension at the tables mounted—until Saliss heard someone clear his throat.
“That will be all, Major. Don’t trouble our Named-rank adventurer. We must take him at his word, and I’m sure this is in the reports.”
“Yessir, General Rigrel!”
The Gnoll [Major] instantly stood and saluted Rigrel. Saliss kept his face blank as Edellein’s left eye twitched. Esor scribbled in the background, and all three were thinking the same thing.
That was low. Reprimanding his subordinate to score a point for Pallass? One look at the Gnoll woman’s blank face and Saliss would have reassessed how much loyalty he was getting from his officers, but Rigrel just went back to talking to Edellein after a moment. Had he lost touch or did he think he had to win over Edellein at all costs?
Saliss pushed himself back from his table carefully. He glanced around at the other officers and smiled.
“Well, this has been fun, but I think all this socializing with you army folk has left me dying to see the New Lands at once. Or meet the Goblin King a third time. Toodles!”
He waggled his claws at them and skipped out of the tent. And there pretty much went his goodwill with the officers as well. Between that and Glasiaad talking about Saliss behind his back, adventurers, officers, and regular [Soldiers] avoided Saliss like the plague.
As he reached the New Lands, Saliss got what he wanted. Isolation.
 
——
 
It even smelled different. Saliss stood, arms stretched, and just breathed in and out. Savoring the odd, slightly salty air and feeling the yellow grass under his toes.
The Eternal Grasslands of Archmage Kishkeria. The same grass that the [Soldiers] were marching over, complaining about how tough it was and tangling wagons, had been invented by the Gnollish [Archmage] of legends.
Even the grass was amazing. Saliss saw no one ahead of him for a moment. Just a flat stretch of land, unnaturally flat, rolling upwards until his eyes began to pick out oddities among the flatlands. Mushrooms, there, or something like them? A flatbed of brown….were those blue tufts in the air?
Even with a Potion of Eagle Eyes, there was so much to see. Saliss wiggled his toes in the grass again.
—Then the first [Battle Alchemist] inserted a shovel into the earth next to him, levered up a huge chunk, and shouted.
“Alchecorps, move up! All [Soldiers] stand back! Sampling teams, go!”
Saliss turned his head and lowered his spread arms. The [Battle Alchemist] stormed back over to a field laboratory where a team of [Alchemists] were waiting. One seized the first strand of grass and popped it into a vial where it began to dissolve.
“Magirite test—1.08!”
He noted that down on a chalkboard and a ledger, and another Drake came running over with another sample of grass.
“I want field samples of the grass at a thousand feet each, and we’ll cross-reference it with grass every ten miles!”
The [Battle Alchemist] in charge bellowed. Saliss saw more junior [Alchemists] running back.
“Sir, do we have nomenclature for the insect samples?”
“We do have a cross-reference with some notes from the Adventurer’s Guild, but label them numerically anyways. Remember, we don’t have Mage’s Picture, so get me a pinning of each for the samples. I want each component part dissected and run through a magirite test, then sent back for analysis! So that’s twenty samples minimum of each, understand?”
The young [Alchemist] had a yellow beetle in a jar; several, actually. He removed some as the [Battle Alchemist] exhorted him and efficiently pinned one through its squirming body. Then he dissected another and popped each part—wings, guts, abdomen—into vials.
“Magirite…1.01. Standard beetle.”
The Gnoll doing notations said with a disappointed sigh. Then he turned as someone ran over with a plant they’d ripped up by the roots. Saliss watched until he saw the [Alchemists] glancing at him.
“Something wrong with our methodology, Alchemist Saliss?”
The [Battle Alchemist] inquired, voice more respectful than most officers. Saliss forced a smile.
“Oh, no. Looks like you’re efficiently collecting samples according to Pallassian doctrine.”
He waved a weak hand as more [Alchemists] hacked up the landscape, ripping out every plant and bringing it back to be tested for magical power. It was a simple test, but often correlated to magical ingredients. The [Battle Alchemist] nodded.
“We’re going at this with a purely methodical, scientific approach, sir. If you have any notes or rare samples, please inform us so we can note the specimens for our [Scouts]. Which reminds me—get me a soil sample as well! I want to see this salinity content and compare against any other spots we visit! Also, tell those [Soldiers] not to eat anything they see until we get it tested for poison!”
More of the Alchecorps swarmed forwards, and Saliss saw them charging over the untouched landscape, excavating holes, and—he saw the first rodent, some long-nosed armadillo-like creature, vanish with a squeal. The [Alchemist] grabbed it, killed it with a twist to the neck, and got scolded for not dispatching it with a tool in case it released a toxin or exploded.
“Ah, well then…”
Saliss kicked a clod of dirt. His desire to do great alchemy faded away too.
 
——
 
There was nothing wrong with the way Pallass’ army-[Alchemists] operated. You wanted a methodical approach to cataloguing the New Lands where everything might be useful or valuable. But Saliss had to say that by the time the army itself moved into the New Lands, it seemed more like a warzone or excavation site, with the dirt churned up, and the army proceeded to stomp through everything else.
Armies generated a lot of trash and ripped up the landscape. Literally—the yellow grass was being pulled as kindling, and theirs were not the only groups that had reached the New Lands. Saliss was moving ahead of the army, and his first discovery, the area of brown land, was that it was a field of clams!
Or…had been. What he found were just empty clamshells by the thousand. One look and Saliss bet that every group who’d come ahead of him had harvested the clams, and now this area was devoid of life. He tossed some shells down and felt his scales tingling.
He had a magical lantern emitting a green glow by his hip. Every now and then, he’d have to add a magical gemstone to it, but the magical ‘field’ it generated would provide him with ambient mana. That was how he could stave off the mana drain of the New Lands—by paying a fortune.
However, it wasn’t so pleasant for other people. Indeed, Saliss heard a [Quartermaster] arguing with one of the [Mages].
“So no enchantments whatsoever?”
“None. We’re reserving all our mana to keep our Chests of Holding maintained. So no bug wards, no cooling or heating spells—find someone with Dragonbreath or a fire-making spell for the fires! If we have to, we’ll purify water, but that’s it. Talk to one of the officers if you want more.”
Already, the lack of magic was being felt by some of the [Soldiers] in small ways. Like, say, wagons.
Wagons had wheels. They were often enchanted to get more traction in the mud or to not break. And [Cooks] had charms to keep the bugs away from their food, or latrines a cantrip to avoid smelling so bad and, again, remove bugs.
All that was vanishing, and it added up. By the time Saliss had finished four hours of his own explorations—mainly moving ahead and occasionally digging up a plant or two or catching an animal to inspect—he returned to camp to realize another comfort was gone.
“There’s not enough water for washing until we hit a river or well! If you were assigned to latrine duty, you have a bucket!”
And the bucket was cold. Saliss got one by virtue of his rank, but sluicing off dirt from his scales with handfuls of water wasn’t exactly fun. He could have heated it up, of course, but he didn’t bother.
“Already done for the day, Adventurer Saliss?”
Edellein appeared disapproving as he oversaw the camp being set up. Saliss just grinned at him with energy he didn’t feel.
“Nope. Getting clean. There was some sap stuff I wasn’t sure about. How’s old Manus doing? Oteslia? Salazsar? Fissival? Zeres?”
The Supreme General grunted as he indicated columns of troops marching to their left and right.
“Fissival’s hanging back due to all their magical equipment. I don’t envy them—the other Walled Cities are moving up with us. Manus seems content to let us do all the researching. Oteslia’s somewhere over there—their [Druids] raised an objection to our [Alchemists]’ practices.”
He snorted.
“We’ll be moving slowly and have our [Scouts] identify areas for squadrons to investigate. Esor has a list of areas for you to explore, Saliss. Don’t go too far out of range, but I give you free rein to act so long as you bring results.”
“Oh, joy, General, sir. Trusting a Named-rank adventurer to be good at adventuring? What will High Command’s genius turn up next?”
The [General] scowled Saliss’ way, but the Drake was already gone. Saliss began jogging into the New Lands proper, and he realized he almost missed Captain Yorm following him. But here he was.
Joy.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights lay in the grass about eighteen miles north of where the armies were mustering. He stared up at the blue skies as blue tufts drifted overhead and didn’t move.
He was tired. There was something restful about being away from the army, of doing nothing at all and just being…alone.
If he sat up, the grass was so tall he could barely see over the tops of it. No one in any direction—yet. Soon, they’d come, tearing up the landscape, but for a moment, he just lay there.
After a while, a lizard crawled over him. It was black with reddish bands of scales over its body. It was fairly big too; as long as Saliss’ leg, though most of that was tail. It had a rather stubby head for a lizard and tried to bite Saliss’—
The Drake snatched the lizard away from his groin, and the thing went wild, spitting and hissing, and the red bands glowed. Saliss felt heat on his clawed hands and blinked.
“Oh, aren’t you cute? What are you, some kind of heat-lizard?”
The red bands were projecting some kind of localized magical effect. He could see the shimmering heat lines around the lizard, and when he tossed it down, it scampered into the grass. Saliss sat up and tracked the strange lizard around.
It seemed to be some kind of predator of insects and, perhaps, smaller rodents. When it wasn’t trying to nibble on his jewels, the lizard would creep around the grass, then activate the heatbands on its scaled body.
The level of heat it projected wasn’t enough to start a fire, but it could bake an insect, at which point the lizard would gobble it up. It also used the effect when cornering rodents; Saliss saw it blasting an area with heat. The long-tailed mouse in the burrow reacted to the heat and evacuated out another hole in its burrow—where the lizard was waiting to gobble it up.
What a strange creature. Saliss bet that its scales were naturally conductive, and there were probably sacs or other elements in its body that could generate a strong heating effect. Maybe nothing groundbreaking, but he imagined Pallass’ [Alchemists] would hack up hundreds of these lizards for cheap heating reagents.
The thought made Saliss gloomy. He sat as the creature with a full stomach he’d dubbed Heatband Lizard began to dig in the grass. It was halfway submerged when he heard the tromp of boots and realized the scouting elements had caught up to him.
Time to run another ten miles. Saliss began to pretend he was actually doing his job when he heard a soft voice.
“Tall grass, now. Fascinating. Everyone, halt. See that heat signature in the grass, there? There’s two lizards like we’ve been seeing. One small—and one very large one, I think?”
The accent was different from the ones Saliss knew of in Pallass or Manus. After a second, another voice replied.
“Oh! I can see the little lizard. It’s digging a hole for itself? So they don’t have nests.”
“They’re a very individualistic species, I feel. Those eggs we found were abandoned by their mother—deliberately, or so she said. Hot as [Fireballs] too. I wonder that they don’t burn the grass. Druid Lagister, that large lizard there—is it some kind of relative?”
“Hard to say. Let’s creep up on it. Slowly, now, watch out for—”
Saliss burst out of the grass as the Oteslian group of six softly moved towards him. He screamed.
“Aaaahblghegh!”
All six [Druids] yelled, and one pointed a staff at him. Saliss laughed as he dodged a [Stone Dart] spell.
“Alchemist Saliss, you scared us to death!”
A pale-faced [Scout] lowered a bow as the Drake leader clutched at his chest. The [Soldiers] glared—but then one of the two [Druids] laughed.
“Giant lizard indeed! I should have known we wouldn’t outpace a Named-rank. Good day to you, Alchemist. I am Druid Lagister, and this is Druid Sharteeth and our lead [Scout], Merwinkle.”
He bowed, and Saliss waved at him, smiling despite his bad mood.
“Hey, what are you doing so far from the camps? Aren’t we supposed to stick close to the army and all that?”
The [Druids] glanced at each other and shrugged.
“It’s only eighteen miles or so. We had to move ahead of the other Walled Cities’ forces. They’re causing such a ruckus that all the wildlife is fleeing ahead of them. If we’re in your way, we shall, of course, go.”
The [Scout] opened her mouth to object, but Saliss waved a claw.
“I’m just exploring like the rest of you. Why, do you have dibs on the lizards?”
He cast an eye on the lizard he’d been watching, which was now buried all the way in the ground. Druid Sharteeth, a young Gnoll with a sprig of berries tucked behind one ear, shook her head.
“No! That is, we’ve encouraged a dozen to join us already, but we’re leaving the rest alone. Though we might want to warn all of them to evacuate, Druid Lagister?”
He was a Drake, to Saliss’ mild surprise; Lagister had pearly white scales and bark-like robes that seemed quite comfortable. Certainly, he was avoided by the yellow beetles that clung to everything and everyone in the tall grasses. He caught a beetle, absently, and raised it; to Saliss’ surprise, a smaller black-and-red lizard scurried out of one of his sleeves and ate it!
“A good idea since these ones seem to be magical. Not that I begrudge Pallass for wanting their alchemy reagents, but if they harvest as many as they did in that clam field…we must tell High Command to avoid wiping out species! With respect, Alchemist Saliss, I hope you understand the dangers of overharvesting.”
His comment to Saliss was direct and fearless, and the [Alchemist] smiled.
“Don’t go after me. Do you see me chopping up the ground for samples?”
That surprised the [Scout], who was Human and peered at Saliss. Merwinkle had a short spear and buckler, like Saliss had observed, and was keeping an eye around the tall grasses with her party.
Lagister backed down after a moment and nodded. He sighed around at the landscape, and shook his head.
“Places like these are beautiful. Take out the beetles, and it would be a sight to picnic in.”
On that, they could agree. It was a bit rugged for a citygoer’s sensibilities, but Saliss could imagine, with a forest path, walking around here…
“It’d be fun to stroll around with someone.”
He muttered under his breath. Lagister blinked at him.
“Hm? What was that?”
“Nothing. Yep, no chopping from me. Go beat up some Pallassian [Alchemists], only don’t, because we don’t need more brawls between armies.”
Merwinkle nodded with the others, then bit her lip.
“Begging your pardon, but I’d have thought a Master Alchemist would take the most samples, sir.”
“Bah. No, that’s just how army-[Alchemists] operate. Most things you can find in nature aren’t that useful for alchemy. Those lizards? Clearly magical, but I don’t need to collect everything. If it’s got magic or utility, it’s obvious.”
Heatband Lizards produced heat. There was a bug that was used a lot in Healing Potions which had a fast regenerative factor—the [Druids] nodded.
“These things are interconnected. Besides, we do not know what each creature and plant does. Chopping one up only provides a few answers. Oteslia observes and benefits from that. Ah—like so.”
He pointed, and everyone turned back to the spot where the Heatband Lizard had buried itself. Saliss blinked. In the time they’d been chatting, something rather funny had occurred.
The lizard, buried under only a bit of soil, had clearly decided it was naptime while it digested its food. As it did, another creature had appeared in the grass and, completely fearless of the bigfolk, sat itself down and wrapped itself up with its arms.
It was…a bird? Saliss had never seen one like it. It was probably three feet high at best and round. It also had long, flipper-like wings, which it dragged across the ground until it sat down and wrapped itself up.
The mournful expression on the blue-beaked bird, and its lack of feathers from head to toe, made Saliss feel like it was an aquatic animal—or formerly aquatic, perhaps. It was also shivering.
The odd, squat bird-thing sat right on top of the buried Heatband Lizard, and its shivering stopped. Saliss saw heat radiating from the ground and realized the Heatband Lizard was warming the soil around it.
A defense mechanism? If so, it didn’t work on the shivering bird—but the bird didn’t try to uproot the lizard. It just sat there, soaking up the heat.
“What in the world?”
Merwinkle and the other [Scouts] scratched their heads. Meanwhile, Druids Sharteeth and Lagister were delighted. Saliss saw them whispering and pointing.
“Look at that! What a delightfully stupid bird!”
“Druid Lagister, you can’t say that! It can hear us! It’s so cute!”
“Bah, it’s like a bloated penguin. Ever seen a penguin? Why is it shivering?”
Saliss wanted to know that too. The bird’s chill had stopped, but it was clearly reluctant to move. He saw it open two huge eyes and peer, again, without fear at the intruders. After a moment, he waved.
“Hey. ‘Sup?”
The bird reacted to his voice, opening its blue-beak and uttering a ‘blerk?’ sound. It stared at Saliss with two bright, yellow eyes, and Saliss—then saw the young Gnoll approaching.
“Hello. I’m Sharteeth. We don’t mean you any harm!”
The [Druid] smiled at the bird and put her staff on the ground. She waved at the bird, which blerked at her, then seemed to recognize her as a friend. It squiggled in place, trying to get the most warmth out of its living seat, and the Gnoll edged closer.
“May we come near you, friend?”
“Blerk, blerk.”
At its words, Druid Lagister approached, and the black lizard hiding in his robes crawled down and onto the bird’s head. It made a pleased sound, and its eyes rolled up as the lizard began emitting more heat!
“Fascinating. There’s not a trace of animosity or fear between the two species. They’re friends for all I swear this fat penguin could make a meal out of the lizards. Has anyone found them before? I’m naming it a Fatguin.”
Sharteeth whisper-shouted.
“Druid Lagister, you can’t do that! That’s so rude!”
The Drake sat with a grin as the bird sighed in contentment. He didn’t touch it, but sat at his ease as the other Oteslians came forwards. The [Scouts] were fascinated, and Saliss himself walked over. The bird just opened one eye and blerked again as they all sat.
“I get to name something on this trip, and I’m calling it like I see it. Hello, my friend. You and your lizard buddy here might want to soon clear out. With respect, a lot of us stompers are coming, and I’d hate to see you in a cookpot or alchemy lab.”
Lagister advised the Fatguin with a friendly tone, and it opened one eye to frown at him. He lifted one clawed hand.
“I’m sorry, but devastation is likely coming for you and those who live in this stretch of grassland—unless we can prove it’s too dangerous for our people to continue into. We, of Oteslia, and Alchemist Saliss come in peace, though, my fat and fiery friends. We are neither hungry nor malicious. Will you treat or trade with us?”
[Druids] had a way with nature, though it was never what you exactly imagined. Lagister didn’t apologize for the army coming this way and delivered the news of danger like someone did the weather report.
Of course, they were predators and dangerous. And of course, we might eat you, but not just yet. Saliss had always thought [Druids] were fairly practical about how they lived. They disliked violence against animals and waste, but many of them ate meat. Well, some were diehard animal pacifists. Those tended to be the scary ones that’d kill you for eating a rabbit.
The Fatguin took the warning from the [Druids] without apparent rancor. It uttered several more heavy hooting sounds, then settled back for a nap.
“You’re awfully confident, sir. I assure you, there are a lot of us, and we have fangs of steel. Don’t say we didn’t warn you. We’ll do a mass [Wild Call] later today.”
Lagister poked the Fatguin in the side, his fingers sinking into the feathers, and Sharteeth protested.
“Druid, you’re so rude! I knew your Circle would be insulting on this expedition! Oh, he’s all feathers! See?”
You could poke a finger down to the knuckle in the bird’s feathers and not touch its skin, apparently. The Fatguin didn’t mind the [Scouts] and even Saliss doing that. It was supremely chill. Indeed, despite the two [Druids] warning it, the bird just snuggled down harder for a nap.
By contrast, the lizards seemed to get ‘danger coming’, and the one below the Fatguin dug itself up, seeming alarmed. It began to scamper away from Saliss, and the Drake saw the bird wake up. It cracked one eye open as the heat from below receded and gave Druid Lagister a reproachful gaze.
“Look, your friends think it’s a good idea to go. Waddle on off, friend. Unless you need a bit of a boost? You don’t look like you can move that fast.”
Lagister was still getting on the Fatguin about its weight, and Saliss thought that the Fatguin was becoming a bit annoyed. It stood up slowly, revealing two big clawed feet, and Saliss blinked.
“Claws?”
Scout Merwinkle had noticed it too and pointed.
“[Druids]. Do birds like that normally have clawed feet?”
Sharteeth blinked as the bird stretched, tilting what Saliss could see of its neck in its feathery body. She frowned.
“No, not normally. If it walks everywhere, it’d have flat feet. Isn’t that so, Druid Lagister?”
“True…penguins have adorably funny finned feet. You’re a strange one, my friend. Listen, I apologize about the disturbance, but we are here in good faith, and we didn’t even try to eat you! Can I offer you a snack by way of recompense?”
Lagister had a few more yellow beetles and what looked like some dried bread, which he offered to the Fatguin. It turned its beak up haughtily, then spread its flippers.
Stranger and stranger. Saliss muttered.
“It looks like it has flying talons, but those flipper-arms have no feathers. And it’s about as aerodynamic as a football…which is fairly aerodynamic, I guess, but only if you kick it. Also, why is it shivering? It’s not cold at all.”
It was a fine spring day, on the warmish side. He turned to Sharteeth.
“Most creatures can regulate their own body warmth, at least enough to survive in temperate weather. Some magical creatures can’t, and it was sitting on the Heatband Lizards—that’s what I’m calling them, dibs—without hesitation. It was fairly hot!”
She nodded, turning back to the Fatguin.
“Sir, we’re very sorry for our intrusion and Druid Lagister’s comments. Can we do anything or are you leaving?”
Leaving, because I’m quite sick of you lot annoying me was the dignified look from the blerking Fatguin. It stood up slightly, flapping its fin-arms out, and then motioned them back. Druid Lagister got up.
“Alright, alright, I apologize. I’m from the Circle of Tempered Metal, which lives in harmony with animals. Sharteeth is the Circle of Nurturement, all hugs and kisses and letting pigeons walk over you. If you’re safe, we’ve done our job.”
They all stepped back. The round penguin-thing made more flappy-motions with its fin-arms.
Further back, further, I say! They retreated until they were fifty feet away. It still kept flapping its wings at them, but Lagister shouted back.
“Just go ahead and leave already! I said more of us are coming! So if you don’t like the space—Ancestors!”
His last comment was because the Fatguin had narrowed its eyes—and then opened its beak. Saliss saw the frost magic before everyone else.
“Watch it!”
His Potion of Ice Resistance splashed them a second before the icy wind blasted across the field, turning the yellow grass to icicles. The Oteslians flinched, and Saliss spun.
Where the hell was—
The Fatguin was fourteen feet up, wings spread now, and he realized they were wings instead of long fins—if it wanted them to be.
Icy feathers were sprouting from the fins! The huge, fuzzy body of the bird had elongated—Saliss saw it was stretched out and wondered if it had compressed itself up to get as warm as possible.
That beak! It was blowing a blizzard downwards, lifting the magical bird higher and higher—and the entire grassland area was an ice bowl!
“Dead gods, it’s flying! It’s—”
The blast of ice from above finally stopped, and they stared upwards as a long-necked bird swept forwards through the air. It had crystalline feathers that flashed in the sky, frozen ice molded into feathers, and its body radiated a cold Saliss could feel from here. It shot towards the Walled Cities’ camps, and Druid Lagister grabbed for something.
“Speaking stone—this is Druid Lagister! Magical beast coming right at you, Oteslia! It froze an entire field of grass in a second! I don’t think it’s hostile, but it’s tetchy—get someone in the skies to head it off, and for the love of Treants, don’t attack it!”
They all watched as the magical ice-bird sped eastwards, and Saliss tried to estimate how cold it was compared to the Wyvern Lord. Not nearly as tough, maybe, nor as cold, but it was powerful.
After maybe six minutes, he saw the bird zooming back the way it had come. It flashed overhead, trailing snow that melted before it hit the ground, and Lagister listened to a squawked report in his ear.
“It’s going past us, yes. Some kind of exceptionally magical bird. It didn’t seem hostile—it was warning us off, but I think it didn’t like the notion of us here, General. It’s killed everything…no, wait!”
Saliss had thought that the entire grassland was dead too. The tall yellow grass was frozen into place, surely a death sentence for whatever was here. But the ice was already beginning to melt…because of the lizards.
The Heatband Lizards were glowing patches of orange light in the field. They rustled through the grass, eating flash-frozen bugs, warming the field until water was dripping downwards, turning it lush and moist. And then—heading westwards in a mass.
Away from the armies. The Drake watched, bemused, and then saw one of the lizards come out of the grass and race up Lagister’s robes. The [Druid] caught his animal friend on one hand.
“Did you know what a fearsome bird we were talking to? Fatguin indeed…I’d better rename it!”
“Druid Lagister, you nearly got us all frozen! If not for Alchemist Saliss—I told you to be nicer to animals!”
Sharteeth’s teeth were chattering, but she bowed to Saliss. Lagister sighed.
“Yes, yes. I suppose we were all lucky! What a specimen! And what did we learn, I wonder? That creature can’t survive its own chill—that’s why it was so friendly to the lizards! And they’re remarkably…”
“Resistant to ice. They got blasted, and not a single one froze. They’re not good for heating spells. My bet is they’ll make great Potions of Frost Resistance. Even armor, if you harvest enough of them.”
Saliss nodded to himself. Druid Sharteeth gave him a disturbed gaze before gathering up another lizard into her arms.
“All I know is that no one should hunt these lizards! Or attack cute, round birds in the wild lest they end up frozen into a block of ice! Should we have chased them all away?”
Lagister shrugged.
“If they’re willing to go, they must have an alternate home they know they can survive in. Perhaps the Fatguin is headed there now. So…let’s follow them.”
He pointed in the direction of the scurrying lizards, and everyone blinked. Lagister turned to Saliss.
“We’re allowed to pursue such things, but if we’ve impeded you—”
“No, I want to follow the lizards too. Let’s go!”
Saliss was already jogging after the lizards, and the rest of the Oteslians gave chase too. They realized after a few moments that the lizards were following the yellow grass even as it thinned out and became less tall. They were indeed heading—northwest?
“Ah, the mountains. But they’re a terribly far ways off. Is there anything to even eat there?”
Lagister pointed at distant hills that became mountains and saw a few lizards stop to munch on bugs or worms. He listened, and then his eyebrows rose.
“You’ll heat it up and they’ll come! Of course!”
In a private aside, he muttered to the others.
“What a damn menace! They’ll destabilize the entire ecosystem! We’d better watch them if they migrate around Oteslia. Might have to pull a Nalthaliarstrelous if they’re as bad as Shield Spiders.”
“Druid Lagister, you are the living end!”
Sharteeth exclaimed, and one of the lizards shot forwards and bit Lagister as he tickled their chins. He yelped.
“Ow, I was just kidding! Sort of—wait, what do you mean, you’re not the only ones? You mean, that icebird fellow does it?”
He listened, tilting his head back and forth, then gave Sharteeth a significant eye. She blinked.
“What is it, Druid Lagister? I don’t speak lizard as well as you do.”
He scratched at a chin.
“I swear they just told me that something really cold lives around here. Something that produces more ice than the frost-bird could dream of—and moves. But it doesn’t mess with them, and they don’t mess with it. Sort of a common-courtesy.”
Saliss perked up. That sounded like a really powerful ice-based monster. Sharteeth lifted the tiny lizard in her hands.
“You’re that important? You cute little things!”
She tickled one until it coughed up some yellow beetles, and Saliss fished in his pockets.
“Want a fish?”
The lizard sniffed it dubiously, took a bite, and then chewed and swallowed. Then it horked up the entire bite of fish.
“He says it’s got nothing to it. Beetles are where it’s at, my friend.”
Lagister told Saliss, and the Drake obligingly caught a double-handful. He ended up stuffing two dozen lizards until they were little pillows he buried in the dirt.
That was how Saliss spent several hours. He gained absolutely zero grand alchemical insights, but when he was hiking back with the Oteslians, chattering about the lizards and the bugs they’d seen—he caught himself smiling.
Smiling at silly lizards, crazy-dangerous Fatguins, and failing at his job. Then heard an aggrieved voice from overhead, and they all glanced up as a shadow crossed over them.
“Saliss! Stop harassing my people!”
The Drake jerked as a familiar voice sang out, and an angry neigh came from overhead. He dodged sideways just in time; the flying piece of poo nearly hit him as the Pegasus turned and banked her wings, coming around for a second bombing run.
“Mivifa?”
Mivifa Selifscale, the Oldblood of Feathers, Named-rank Adventurer of Oteslia, and her Pegasus, Feathi, landed in the tall grass. Mivifa leapt off Feathi’s back, and her wings, feathered, flapped as she pointed accusingly at him.
“I knew it! You just had to go and annoy the scouting teams—the moment I heard of the farting incident, it was you. If you poison my people, I’ll have Feathi bite you, Saliss—”
“Adventurer Mivifa, please! Alchemist Saliss hasn’t done a thing to us! He was quite helpful in our research, in fact!”
The Oteslians protested, and Mivifa drew up. Her mouth opened, and she stared at them and then at Saliss.
“What? Saliss, helping?”
He pretended to appear hurt as he clutched at his chest.
“Unfairly attacked! Oh, dead gods, this is the classic Oteslian hostility I’ve heard so much about! By a fellow Named-rank adventurer, no less! Mivifa, how could you? Can you believe her, Feathi?”
He leaned on the Pegasus’ side, patting her head. She sidled left, and Saliss fell on his face. But Feathi didn’t stomp on him; she just rested a hoof on his back and spread her wings in a victorious pose.
“Feathi, get off him. I’m, er, sorry, Saliss. I just assumed—Druid Lagister, you’re going to have to issue a full report to the Green General back at camp! I’ve been trying to trace the path of that icebird. It’s set the Walled Cities into a panic.”
Saliss raised his head as Feathi shuffled to the side, and he sat up.
“Why, what did it do? And hi, Mivifa. Why are you here? You never leave Oteslia if you can help it.”
She was always hanging around the city and claimed she had ‘duties’ there that she couldn’t shake. And she normally tried to hide her age. But right now, the Named-rank was without makeup and the kid’s slang, and she smiled as she bent over to offer him a hand.
“That’s…complicated. I’m not needed at Oteslia for the moment, Saliss.”
She looked unhappy, but then shook herself briskly.
“—So I’m here in the New Lands! Where would you rather be as an adventurer, eh? I’m just surprised you’re not hunting down the most magical monster around!”
“Eh, I’m sort of lazy right now. The Goblin King and all that.”
All the Oteslians turned to Saliss with that familiar expression of disbelief. But Mivifa? She just turned with Feathi and gave Saliss the most serious expression. Then she leapt up into the air and nodded.
“Ancestors. So it was him? Did they manage to kill him? Tell me he’s dead, Saliss—no, tell me in the air. Feathi will give you a lift back to camp. Come on!”
She didn’t even ask if he was joking. Saliss felt his heart lift, and he saw Feathi shaking herself off. She gave him a eye, but waited as he hopped into the saddle. Then she leapt into the air, and Mivifa shouted.
“I’m glad you’re here! The first Named-rank I saw was Glasiaad, and I almost flew back the way I came when I did!”
“Don’t worry—Xif has a great cream for that now, Mivifa!”
She found something to throw at him, and Saliss found himself laughing. One of the two [Druids] ran to pick up the empty vial and shout at them about littering, and then Saliss was flying higher, literally and in his heart. He’d forgotten, by the by, that yes, even he had a few of them.
Friends.
 
——
 
Incidentally, Druid Lagister had done more than he’d thought with his warning to the Fatguin. When Saliss saw the Walled Cities’ camps next, he wasn’t prepared for the line of ice drawn across the landscape.
“It’s a damn [Ice Wall], only it’s not a spell. They’re having to break through it since it won’t melt for days. Some monster you two ran into.”
It seemed the Fatguin had decided to slow the Walled Cities to let its lizard-allies make tracks in a very literal way. Saliss shouted back at Mivifa as they descended.
“And you didn’t stop it? For shame, Mivifa of Feathers!”
She stuck her tongue out at him.
“Feathi and I drop when we freeze! That’s the last thing I want to tangle with in the air! And it was fast! Even that Wyvern Lord you tangled with in Pallass seemed like a better fight. You never did tell me how it was to battle.”
“Eh, it was tough and fast, but aside from the Frost Breath, not that unpredictable. That Fatguin didn’t even register on my danger scale until I saw it open its beak. It’s highly magical.”
Mivifa nodded.
“I’ve heard a lot of magical monsters are in the New Lands. Far more than you’d think, given this damn mana drain! I’ve been worried about that all the way here, Saliss. I had to put all my enchanted gear away, so I’m down to just steel. At least Feathi says she’s not feeling any mana drain. She loves the grass. How are you handling it?”
Feathi neighed agreement, and Saliss, well aware she was as intelligent as most people, shrugged.
“I’ve got a magical lantern that’s energizing the air around me. Don’t you have one? Also, steel, Mivifa, really? Not even some mithril?”
She cursed at him.
“Damn it, I didn’t even know that was possible! Do you know how hard it is to get unenchanted Mithril gear at the drop of a hat? You wouldn’t happen to have another, would you, Saliss?”
“Nnnnnope.”
“Well then, could you take some of my gear? I’ve got it with our [Quartermaster], but it makes me nervous having them storing my best items.”
Saliss shrugged lightly.
“Oh, sure. For you, it’ll only be a thousand gold a night—”
She threw a boot at him, then swooped down to catch it. Saliss grinned as Feathi did a slow roll in the air, clearly trying to drop him as they descended towards camp. He hung on easily.
“So…you’re going to be a roaming scout, Mivifa? I’ve been hired to do that and blow anything nasty up. Fancy a team-up?”
She climbed back up towards him and sombered, shaking her head.
“I’d love to, Saliss. More than hanging out with the Magpie and having to give him a cut of loot, but I’m not going to be with the expedition all the time. The First Gardener wants me flying across the New Lands, checking on other colonists from Oteslia, essentially acting as a Courier since not a lot of them are willing to come here. Sorry—when we can, let’s work together, though! Especially if we find a dungeon or the Crossroads.”
He felt a pang at that, but having Mivifa around was good enough. She was one of the few adventurers he liked, and they were already making dinner plans when the speaking stone they had crackled.
“Lady Mivifa, we see you on approach. Apologies, but can you recite your day-code for me?”
She rolled her eyes, but her tone was good-natured.
“Certainly, officer…”
The voice was familiar, and Saliss wasn’t surprised when he saw Captain Lyssander waving them in. He gave Saliss and Mivifa a salute.
“Adventurer Saliss! A good first day, I hope?”
Mivifa raised her brows as Saliss waved, not quite meeting Lyssander’s eyes.
“Oh, you know. Dig up a few roots here, feed a lizard there, annoy a magical ice-bird there…hey, Mivifa, this is Captain Lyssander. And that giant Gnoll is Captain Yorm.”
He saw the Gnoll jogging over, and Mivifa shook Lyssander’s hand.
“I’m a huge fan, Lady Mivifa—”
“Just Adventurer Mivifa, please. Manus? Good to work with you! And you—Ancestors, you’re tall!”
She exclaimed as Yorm loomed over them, and Feathi backed up a step, not used to anyone that big. Yorm saluted.
“Adventurer Saliss, Strategist Esor would like a debriefing if you have a moment—Adventurer Mivifa, it is an honor to meet the Oldblood of Feathers herself! Might I trouble you for an autograph?”
Saliss gestured at his chest.
“Hey! What am I, spare salamander parts?”
Everyone loved Mivifa. She obliged Yorm and signed her name with a flourish before turning back to Saliss.
“Debriefings and reports nonstop. Lovely. Are you eating in the mess hall tonight, Saliss?”
Yorm and Lyssander were giving Saliss looks, clearly hoping to be invited, but he hesitated. He glanced at the two—Saliss waved a claw.
“Eh, maybe I will, but why don’t we talk in private? Adventurer stuff.”
She nodded at once, sensing he didn’t want to have company.
“I can get food delivered to my tent. I’ll see you then at—”
“Fliers coming in! Excuse me, Lady Mivifa, but another group is approaching.”
Lyssander’s disappointed expression turned to concentration as someone else came towards the small landing zone. Feathi trotted out of the landing pad, bemused, as if wondering why a flier couldn’t land anywhere they wanted. Saliss shaded his eyes, wondering if it was someone from High Command from another city.
…But he didn’t see anyone. Then he realized they were all looking the wrong way, and he turned his gaze westwards. Into the New Lands—and he saw three figures dropping towards him out of the skies.
Captain Lyssander spoke crisply.
“Your codes have been approved, and you are cleared for landing, Wings of Pallass.”
The Wings of Pallass? Saliss gazed up, and a single Garuda and two Drakes landed on the ground. They were panting, their leather armor scratched to hell and back, and—Yorm pinched his nose and recoiled a second before the others smelled it—
Filthy.
Captain Bevussa’s feathers were stained from the dirt encrusting them, and she strode over to shake Captain Lyssander’s hand before apologizing.
“Excuse us, sir. We’ve been over two months in the rough, and water’s not always easy to come by. We ran out of soap as well.”
“Dead gods, two months, Captain? I knew you were in the New Lands, but you look rough. Who’re your teammates?”
She nodded to them tiredly.
“Issa and Kin. We had a few more recruits, but they couldn’t keep up or quit, so we had them run escort for groups getting to civilization. I hope to link up with them soon, if the rest don’t bow out. Does—does this camp have hot water? Fire?”
“Food?”
Kin, an Oldblood with wings, added hopefully. Lyssander assured them they did, and she sagged.
“Dead gods, thank goodness! I’d kill for a hot bath!”
“We’ll…try to get you one, adventurers. You look like you’ve had a rough go of it.”
Bevussa had noticed Saliss and Mivifa and did a double-take as she stared at them. She saluted reflexively.
“Adventurer Saliss! Adventurer Mivifa? We, uh—it’s not been the most pleasant experience in the New Lands. We’ve gotten valuable experience and insights into the land, though.”
That meant ‘this is shit, and we hate it here’, but gussied up to seem good in front of the non-adventurers. Saliss eyed her.
“Let me guess…mana-drain?”
Bevussa nodded, and it said it all, really.
“We didn’t expect it until our bags of holding exploded in midair. We lost almost all our supplies. The enchantments wore out, you see. We lasted way, way longer than other groups, but…I guess it got us in the end. All our items scattered to the winds.”
“And weapons and armor.”
Issa groaned, and Saliss felt his stomach twist, imagining how much that would cost a Gold-rank team like that. Bevussa put a hand on her shortsword, her features grim.
“Since then, we’ve picked up work delivering messages and supplies to colonists. And, ah, finding failed expedition sites. The skies aren’t safe past this point, Lady Mivifa. Elemental Wyverns are just the start.”
“Noted, Captain. I’d love a chat—but your team looks like you need to rest first. Could I trouble you later?”
“Of course, Ma’am!”
Bevussa was a former [Soldier] through and through; her entire team seemed awestruck by the most famous flier in Izril. She saluted and then headed straight for the nearest bathing tent. Saliss leaned over.
“I know the Wings of Pallass. They’re solid, Mivifa. Shame about the magic items. They lost members at Liscor.”
She gave him a strange gaze.
“In the dungeon?”
“Nope, Hectval.”
The Oldblood of Feathers shook her head, with that grimace of weary resignation. Not more than a flash of sadness, really; it was the job they knew. Feathi did the same. She rolled her eyes.
“Not in the dungeon then. Just another one of those Liscor-events all over the news. Dead gods, Saliss, it’s like that entire place is a death-zone, and it’s not even the Bloodfields. Alright, tell me later. Would you mind if I invited Bevussa’s team to dinner?”
He hesitated and almost said ‘no’, but the bedraggled Garuda and her team made even him accede.
“Oh, fine.”
She pointed a finger at him.
“And be nice, Saliss! Don’t be, well, you.”
The story of my life. The Drake sighed, but for his friend, he just smiled.
“I’ll give it a shot.”
 
——
 
That evening, Saliss wandered over to Mivifa’s tent and knocked on the huge canvas flaps. Mivifa had a big tent with her sigil on it, that of a flying Pegasus. Still pretentious, but because it was her…
He didn’t want to hang out with the Wings of Pallass. With respect to them, he didn’t know them well. Oh, he’d seen Bevussa around, and she’d been a semi-regular at The Wandering Inn, but he didn’t know her like the Horns, and even them he wasn’t chummy with.
Saliss caught himself as he waited, hearing muffled voices from within. Wait—he might not know the Wings more than most Gold-rank teams, but then again, he knew them a bit. Because they’d known Erin and fought and lost teammates defending her.
Erin was a good judge of character. So, perhaps he wouldn’t be too annoying.
Whatever his apprehensions, Saliss still felt off about dodging Captain Lyssander. He felt—annoyed, despite the fun with Oteslia’s scouts. He rather figured he might like the City of Growth’s approach to the New Lands and was envisioning a better scenario for himself with Mivifa around.
Still, Lyssander bothered Saliss. He could just imagine Mirn fretting over the Drake, thinking about how to have a word with him, wondering how the kid had survived, but Saliss…he caught sight of himself in a watering trough for Feathi outside the tent.
Someone else stared up at him. Not a naked orange-scaled Drake with that silly smile, but an indigo-scaled Drake with blue and yellow eyes.
Onieva. Saliss gazed into his reflection. Troubled.
That wasn’t normal. Was he having hallucinations now? Great, that’d be the last thing he needed, to actually be going crazy. Not that it made his scales itch like normal. He watched Onieva brush at her neck spines. Smile at herself. Give herself finger guns.
“Hey, good looking.”
Before he could investigate further, the tent flaps opened. Saliss saw a giant horse’s head staring at him. Feathi.
“Oh, hey.”
She held the flap open with a wing, and Saliss ducked inside. He found Mivifa sitting at a table with Captain Bevussa, Issa, and Kin.
Saliss had rather imagined it’d go how it usually did with Gold-rankers. Too much awe and admiration and tongue-tiedness. All the silly questions you got from lower-level people who thought you had all the answers and were a different breed of being.
He wasn’t expecting to see a choking Drake trying to swallow an entire chicken wing whole or Captain Bevussa tearing pieces of bread and gulping them down after dunking them in soup. Mivifa gave Saliss a relieved glance as she waved him in, and Feathi rubbed at her own head with a wing.
“Saliss, glad you could join us! We got, uh, started without you.”
The Wings were hungrier than the Drake had expected. Bevussa tried to apologize between bites.
“We’re so sorry, Alchemist Saliss, sir, Lady Mivifa—we haven’t had decent food in ages.”
“I thought you’d at least have good hunting with your aerial mobility, Captain.”
Mivifa was astounded, and Saliss entered adventurer-mode without thinking, leaning over the table. The Wings weren’t amateurs. They might be only Gold-rankers, but he knew they’d been former Pallassian army. However, Bevussa just gulped down some wine and gasped for air. It was Kin who muttered.
“It’s the damn super-monsters.”
“The what?”
“Super-monsters. That’s our name for them. Well, I say ‘we’—Mrsha coined it. She’s checked in on us twice, but we normally missed her since we’re either airborne or in a dead-zone. They’re magical monsters that rate at Named-rank—or worse! They’ve forced us to ground more than once, and we’ve had to hide for days to avoid them.”
Saliss’ brows rose.
“I think I ran into one of them. It was a Fatguin—well, it looked silly until it turned into an ice bird.”
Bevussa shuddered, but shook her head to his surprise.
“That thing? I’ve seen it flying about once or twice near the mountain, but it never came after us. No, I mean…the fish school.” 
Her team blanched and Issa burst out, eyes wide.
“Not to mention the damn Dragon!”
She smashed a fist on the table, and Mivifa froze up. Saliss sat up.
“Did you just say Dragon?”
Issa nodded rapidly.
“We think it’s a Dragon. None of us even got close—one second we were flying away from a snowstorm, the next second we realize the storm is coming at us. We had to dive into cover, and I saw it landing. It was all white scales and frost—we nearly froze as it hunted for us.”
“Hunted? As in, trying to eat you? Dragons from stories aren’t predators of people like that.”
Mivifa’s voice was carefully neutral, and Saliss had an image of the Dragonlord of Flames. He couldn’t square that with a people-eater…well, not for food. Bevussa shook her head at Issa.
“Stow that kind of gossip, Issa. We never got more than a glance at it. Dragon-like. It could have been a Wyvern, but if so, it’s a grade above the Wyvern Lord. But it wasn’t that big…the fish were bastards, though.”
They began reciting the other aerial monsters they’d seen, many of whom had taken umbrage to their presence in the skies. Bevussa sighed.
“I think they were after our mana. Kin’s a [Mage], you see. And I think my shortsword has a tiny bit of magical charge. You wouldn’t happen to know if that was the case?”
She offered a Shortsword of Shock with a pleading look at them. It seemed pretty dead to Saliss, and he doubted the enchantment would have lasted unless it was made well; it was pretty abused from cutting everything from firewood to monsters up.
Here, at least, he could be the good guy, because Mivifa, for all her reputation as a considerate, upstanding Named-rank, could be painfully frank. She pushed Bevussa’s shortsword back over the table after studying it up and down.
“I’m going to be honest with you, Captain Slenderscale. I think it’s a goner. It could be a good [Enchanter] will bring it to life, but it’ll cost you, and my thinking is that your team just lost most of its gold in the New Lands. I wondered why a team already in the New Lands would take a contract with the army…how hard up are you?”
Everyone went silent as Saliss saw Feathi kick Mivifa; the horse was able to partake in the conversation given how big Mivifa’s tent was. Bevussa swallowed another glass of wine, and her clawed hand tightened around the cup.
“I’ll be honest too, Lady Mivifa—Kin and Issa know we’ve lost our fortunes. The moment my bag of holding exploded in the air, well, it wasn’t a fun day. I’m treating this contract as a way to stay solvent. For the rest? I’m going to do what the Halfseekers did in the dungeon of Liscor. Stick it out. Hope to the Ancestors that there’s a fortune in the New Lands, because we’ve sunk all we have here. Not just us; I’ll bet there’s a lot of teams who’re committed to fortune or destitution.”
Saliss clapped his hands in the silence.
“Well, that’s a cheerful discussion! Nice going, Mivifa. Normally I get to bring the mood down.”
Embarrassed, the Oldblood of Feathers began apologizing.
“I didn’t mean to make it sound so aggressive. If I hadn’t gotten warnings, I’d have made the same mistake with me and Feathi—”
Bevussa shook her head with that worn smile of someone who’d lost too much to sugarcoat it.
“I appreciate someone being straight with us, Lady Mivifa. It’s good to have a flier be tough as mithril. Everyone thinks we break like glass…but do you mind if I ask Adventurer Saliss about Liscor? We saw the moon crack, and I swear there was a pink comet around the High Passes—everyone says there was a—a Goblin King that appeared?”
She forced a smile as Mivifa turned to Saliss, just as interested. Bevussa glanced at him.
“I wouldn’t believe it, but they said he appeared at The Wandering Inn. So I give it 50-50 odds he was actually there.”
Here was someone else who believed. More than even Mivifa, who knew Saliss, Bevussa just listened as Saliss nodded and gave a redacted version of the events after the [Palace of Fates].
“He’s dead? You’re sure he’s dead?”
“Until the next time, sure. It’s not like I killed him, Mivifa. I was more of an annoying speedbump with a few good quips. I think those hurt his feelings more than all my damn potions.”
Mivifa exchanged an incredulous look with Feathi, but Kin just muttered.
“Ancestors. We fly off thinking there’s fame and fortune in the New Lands when we could have stayed and fought the Goblin King.”
“And died like Zassil. For all the things we saw in the New Lands, we didn’t die.”
Issa wore a bitter expression as she drained her cup of wine, and Bevussa just studied Saliss. Then she dipped her head.
“Is that—twice now you’ve gone up against the Goblin King, Adventurer Saliss? I feel like I should thank you on behalf of Pallass and my family, if not all of Izril.”
Again, every eye turned to Saliss, and he grew uncomfortable. Mivifa’s wings stirred, and this time she blinked. She believed, but if you really did think the Goblin King had appeared twice, the Goblin King, who lay waste to entire kingdoms…Bevussa met Saliss’ eyes as he tried to wave it off.
“You know, you see him once, you’ve seen him a thousand times. I survived; he can’t be that bad, right?”
I don’t know how I lived. Only that something was fighting him as hard as we were. But Bevussa just lifted her cup.
“If you met him, then you levelled again, Adventurer Saliss, didn’t you? Between that and the Solstice…I was thinking my Level 40 capstone was around the corner. Is yours coming up?”
Ah, she came to it. Mivifa and Feathi’s head snapped around to Saliss, and he kept his face utterly straight. Because they knew, if not his exact class or level, where he was roughly. They were old friends. They knew more of Saliss’ secrets than most, if not Onieva.
They knew Saliss was over Level 50. And if he’d levelled from two major events…Saliss’ eyes twinkled as he decided Bevussa was more than a generic Gold-ranker after all.
“Oh, you charming kids. Me, close to my capstone? That’s nice of you to say. I’d love to hit Level 50 before turning fif—damn. Well, you know, one can dream.”
He gave them a twinkle-eyed stare as he put his chin in his hands. Bevussa chuckled with laughter, and Saliss’ eyes gleamed with secrets.
 
——
 
Only when they were gone, early to bed after their travels, did Mivifa fill their winecups and survey the mess of a table. Feathi picked up bowls with her mouth, tossing them into a bin for cleaning later, and Mivifa murmured.
“Poor kids. I know, I know, they’re Gold-ranks and we were their age, once. But losing all your gear like that? It makes me feel bad for them, and don’t call me old, Saliss!”
She was around his age, and her wings bristled defensively, but Saliss just leaned on the table.
“No, I was going to say that it sucks for them, too. There’s another team I know, the Silver Swords? They lost most of their gear as well. This is going to break a lot of teams, Mivi. There’s no sugarcoating that. Fortunes have already been lost in the New Lands. This is a damn disaster, and the worst part is that big-tailed assholes like the Walled Cities can swan in with all the warnings from those who went first. They can shield their magic. The adventurers can’t.”
She stopped, cup to her lips.
“Dead gods, Saliss. You are in a bad mood.”
He scowled.
“Who told you that? Esor?”
“No one. I just flew in and asked what you’d been up to. When someone said you just pranked Manus and Zeres, and that they’d hardly seen you, I knew you were upset. When you’re in a good mood, everyone’s screaming insults at you, but things are better. Is that new General, Edellein, that incompetent? I saw 2nd Army getting torn up…but that was some kind of super Goblin Lord.”
Saliss snorted and poured a cup for Feathi, who had a custom-made bowl she could drink out of. She drank like, well, a horse.
“Edellein turned that situation into a nightmare when it was already a debacle. He’s as far from Chaldion as you can get.”
“One would think that’s a good thing.”
She murmured carefully, and Saliss scowled harder.
“Chaldion knew what was best for Pallass. Edellein? Well, he’s loyal, and that’s his best quality. Let’s not talk about him, okay? You’ll get to know him whether you like it or not. Be real with me. Why are you out of Oteslia? You never like leaving it.”
It was Mivifa’s turn to be evasive, and she fiddled with a napkin.
“Let’s just say that I’ve had a falling out of sorts.”
“Not with the First Gardener. She loves you. That Cire kid that you were trying to hang about? The First Gardener’s son? Just dangle him off the walls a bit.”
Mivifa shook her head as Saliss watched her, but he didn’t press. That was her secret, and he had his. They had an agreement not to inspect each other’s madnesses; it was how they stayed friends. So long as she wasn’t trying to sleep with Drakes too young for her, Saliss didn’t care to find out.
“It’s freeing, in a way, Saliss. I can go back to being an adventurer, and I do feel the call from the New Lands. You’re the one who looks fed up and miserable. Being with the army is that bad? Why’d you join them?”
“Pressure.”
He grunted, and Mivifa’s eyes widened. She glanced around, and Feathi trotted over to close the tentflaps, then put her head on the table to stare at Saliss.
“Is it Mirn? Is Edellein doing the same thing as Chaldion did and threatening to raid Turnscale bars?”
The fact that she knew Mirn and Turnscales was a product of their long friendship and that Oteslia was the most liberal Walled City by a mile. But she didn’t know about Onieva. She probably thought Saliss was ‘just’ a Turnscale in the sense that he loved men.
Saliss shrugged.
“Why change a winning formula? I’m here because I have to be, Mivifa. And because someone has to keep this damn army from getting mass-poisoned or killed by those ‘super-monsters’.”
He smiled crookedly into his cup until he felt a pressure on his arm. He turned; Feathi was giving him a soulful gaze with big eyes as she stared up at him. Saliss tried to push her away.
“Your Pegasus is drunk, Mivifa.”
Unfortunately, the two were partners. Mivifa was shaking her head as she refilled all their cups.
“Sometimes, I wonder who’s more faithful to their city, Saliss. You, or me. Listen, I know Glasiaad isn’t fun for you.”
“Glasiaad’s fine. I’m not picking a fight, I just messed with him trying to pick up Drakes too young for him. You beat down someone once and they hold a grudge for a decade.”
Saliss complained loudly, and Mivifa shrugged.
“But he’s not going to be easy to work with. Just—I’ll try to find time to partner with you, okay? Maybe you can ride sidesaddle with me if those super-monsters are that much of a threat, or we can dungeon together.”
The problem was…she and Saliss had complimentary skillsets, but only sometimes. They could make an amazing trio, raining down alchemical weapons on the foe, but when it came to air-combat, Saliss was only so helpful. The same for dungeon-exploring. Mivifa was not good at dungeons. Her partner was a giant Pegasus for crying out loud! Not exactly good at dodging traps.
The Drake shook his head.
“Just you being around as a friendly face, Mivifa. Not everyone in Pallass is a waste of time. Esor’s like a worse Chaldion, but you can trust his judgement. And Captain Yorm, the giant Gnoll, is Grimalkin’s apprentice. Solid.”
“And that Captain Lyssander? He seemed to know you, but you blew him off. Is he a classic Manus idiot like Zeter?”
Mivifa shared Saliss’ opinions on a lot of adventurers, and he hesitated too long.
“No…he’s another problem. He’s not stupid. He actually caught me while I was [Invisible] the other day. It’s just how the armies are being run. Edellein’s my problem. I’m stuck with him, but what do you think about General Rigrel?”
Mivifa was more careful than Saliss, but she merely checked the tentflaps and their privacy spells before lowering her voice.
“General Narrina is not a fan. Candidly? I thought Manus’ camp looks a bit roughshod, but I put that down to your pranks. Morale seems low—but it’s low across most Walled Cities.”
“Even Oteslia? You won at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Tell that to any Gnoll who had relatives there, Saliss. General Narrina took precautions to stay away from Manus to avoid more brawls breaking out, given who was on whose side. I don’t even want to picture Salazsar and Fissival meeting. They’re still at war.”
Drakes hating Drakes. I wonder how we ever find time to fight other species. Saliss downed his drink.
“Well, you’re wondering why I’m in a bad mood.”
Her lips twisted.
“Point. I just hate seeing you like this.”
Saliss was trying not to rock the boat too much. Edellein’s boat, sure, but he hadn’t done more than officially-sanctioned pranks on any other army. He wasn’t messing with Manus’ affairs, and he was playing well with Oteslia. He just hated the dysfunction of the armies, here. He sighed, and pushed Lyssander out of his thoughts.
“Forget about it. The armies brawl and fight and there’s always someone who dies falling into the latrines. We know that. Let’s focus on what we can deal with: the New Lands. You need to be careful in the skies, Mivifa. Everything that wants to eat the Wings will go after Feathi in a heartbeat.”
She nodded.
“Mana-suppressant potions. It makes us sick, but we know how to deal with Wyverns. Ah, did you see the attack on the Haven? Remember what Bevussa said? Flying fish. I wonder if those were the same…”
They began discussing how dangerous these super-monsters actually were and confirming that neither one of them had ever run into most of the monsters Bevussa had described. Saliss left Mivifa’s tent in a focused mood, if not a bit better overall. It was only after he’d tossed himself into his tent that something occurred to him.
“Lyssander. Cire. Werica. Rafaema. All four of those names came from Mrsha.”
He sat up slowly in his tent and frowned.
“So what’s Cire’s potential? What’s Lyssander’s?”
Potential, right? Mrsha didn’t just send him a list of Turnscales—no, Cire had been only after females of any species. Saliss sat there, thinking.
“Potential? He did catch me invisibly. But he couldn’t beat Lieutenant Comois in the Officer Trials. Then again—a Gold-ranker would have lost that fight. Why the hell him?”
But he knew the answer. Saliss rolled over in his bedroll, then rolled over again until he was a cloth sausage rolling across the tent. He wished he hadn’t said that.
Just like General Sserys. Everyone who was a Turnscale knew who Sserys had been. Dead gods, it had been obvious. Fewer knew about Zel Shivertail. Call it coincidence, but Mirn had always had a theory.
“Being a Turnscale is hard. Everything tries to beat it out of you, Saliss, chew you up and spit you out. You have to hang on or go crazy or just—try and quit. It’s hard. How does anyone level? Think on it…”
“If it was that easy, Mirn, we’d all be Level 60. Shut the fuck up.”
Saliss muttered into the night. But he couldn’t shake the question. The next day, he forgot entirely about that late-night thought, at least in the early morning. Captain Yorm woke him up bright and early for Saliss’ speciality:
Demolition work.
 
——
 
The wall of ice that the Fatguin (no one had come up with a better name) had created was still in place, and High Command wanted it gone.
In this case, it was General Edellen, General Rigrel, Green General Narrina, and Shark Captain Femar. There was a Wall Lady who’d elected to lead Salazsar’s troops, but she was more nobility and, apparently, still on the way. Fissival was also on the outs, both politically and in terms of distance, so the four commanders were operating by committee for now.
Femar was the youngest of the four, the brashest, and definitely the best in combat, but seniority meant he had to defer to the others at times. Edellein had the most power despite his lack of seniority over Rigrel due to the size of his army, and it was he who made the request.
“We need a hole in this ice wall, Saliss. We’ve hit it with picks, and our [Battle Alchemists] and Glasiaad took a crack at it, but it’s just draining too much mana. Can you destroy it without wasting too much gold?”
“I mean, I can. But what happened to good, old-fashioned digging?”
Saliss was curious. The ground was frozen solid, but it would be easy to either sap the walls or just ramp over it. He was an expensive solution when an army was a multitool that could fix problems like this. It was Femar who barked back.
“We could waste time making a ramp or give our troops a show, Adventurer. After raising every tentflap in a hundred meters last night, I think they deserve it.”
That drew laughter from people who’d heard until Femar glared around, but he wasn’t actually looking to brawl Saliss. He was glaring, but there was that charisma that Saliss had seen now and then.
“Yes, what the Sharkcaptain said. Bread and visiting the menagerie…that’s the ticket. You know your stuff, Femar.”
General Rigrel put in. He appeared…tired. And, Saliss noticed, he couldn’t take his eyes off of Femar. The Sharkcaptain slapped Rigrel on the back of his armor, and the Gnoll winced.
“I’ve learned it from the best, General Rigrel.”
“Yes, ha-hah. Well, that’s what we’ve elected to do. On with the show, Adventurer Saliss.”
The purely envious gaze Rigrel shot Femar said a lot. One was in the prime of his life, the other…Saliss turned to Edellein, and the [General] gave him a look. Are you going to usurp my command here?
And risk the chance to blow something up and get paid while doing it? Saliss cracked his knuckles as everyone turned to him. He smiled despite himself.
“Ooh, a challenge, is it? Let me see.”
He did like problems like this. This was a puzzle, and Saliss knew better than to brute-force it with a mass flame spell like Glasiaad would have done without the mana drain. His first instinct was simple.
“What if we made a bridge over the ice?‘
Earth ramp up, earth ramp down. However, the amount of troops that each army had meant it would be a lot of work. Esor shook his head.
“If we could break it apart, Alchemist…? Even a few chunks would be enough. We have the muscle; it’s just one solid sheet. Amazingly tough, really. Our [Cryomancers] say that it’s equivalent of a [Glacius Wall] spell—Tier 5.”
“Psh, only Tier 5? Give me a second…”
Saliss was running down the list of options he had. There were several things that dealt with ice. Salt, for one. Heat was too obvious…he was imagining how you could quarry some huge sheets of rock by embedding stakes of wood in the ice, then adding water. The expanding wood cracked the stone, and you could clear huge amounts of stone with only a hammer, a few pieces of wood, water, and time.
However…this was magical ice. Even the compressed wood might not crack it, and he didn’t have time to fiddle around with pieces of wood all day. But the idea still made Saliss think he had something.
What about a shockwave? If I drill a hole in the ice and put a vial in there, let’s say…Potion of Combustion? No, the fire needs air. How about a Thunderclap Vial? That much sound and force will explode and crack the ice—if I seal the hole.
Having a sealant stronger than the ice so the shockwave had nowhere to go but into the ice would be key. Saliss thought and found the right vial.
Gianthammer Glue. So named because apocryphally, it had once been used to make a hammer for a giant. Saliss doubted it was that strong, but he strode over to the wall of ice. A lot of [Soldiers] were waiting to go, and he waved his hands at them, showing off a bit. Maybe it was seeing the Wings of Pallass there or his better mood, but he called out to a hungover Mivifa and Feathi.
“Well, well, well! It seems the Walled Cities have found an enemy they can’t defeat: ice! I, Saliss of Lights, will defeat this cunning obstacle! Observe, nothing up my sleeves…”
Mivifa threw a rock at him.
“Get on with it, Saliss!”
He chucked a hangover tonic back at her. Then Saliss sighed dramatically.
“Oh, fine. Now, I just need a tiny hole…let me just try some lava. Whoops!”
He had a special jar that kept anything in it amazingly hot. Saliss ‘accidentally’ tossed some lava on the wall of ice.
It exploded.
Ice meeting lava tended to do that. Saliss dodged the blast of steam and picked himself up theatrically. Then he stared.
“Huh.”
The ice was unharmed. The cooling lava steamed on the grass, and Saliss upgraded how cold he thought this damn wall was. A dangerous bird indeed.
“Okay…no lava. Let me just try some powder. Anyone got a ladder? Feathi, I need a footstool! Feathi?”
She ignored him, but Bevussa leapt up.
“Where to, Alchemist?”
He had her drop him on top of the wall, and despite his Potion of Ice Resistance, Saliss felt the chill. He pretended to hop on one foot then another as he dumped powder onto a spot.
“You may want to stand back, Captain. And shield your eyes.”
It was mostly just metallic powders he’d combined with a bit of fire magicore on top of the ice wall. Saliss lit a match, then took a step back as the mixture began to burn red-hot.
Rhaldon called the compound ‘thermite’. Which sounded so much less cool than Flaresand. This time, the burning, spitting mixture produced more than just an explosion of steam. Saliss eyed the eye-searing blaze and saw the ice reducing—but it was going to make a circular pit, not a tube-sized hole.
So he pulled out some gloves and, to Bevussa’s shock, began scooping at the burning thermite.
“Come on, burn a hole. A hole! Ooh, that’s a bit hot.”
“Alchemist Saliss, are you okay?”
“What? Sure, sure. Anyone want some of this? It burns through bones, you know.”
The audience stared as the screaming thermite melted a hole into the ice under Saliss’ claws. He eventually picked up the powder and ran, swearing, to another spot on the wall where he repeated the process until it finally burned out.
The end result were some messy holes, and Saliss pulled out another tool to get them a bit more in the shape he wanted.
“Adamantium dagger, say hello to ice. And Adamantium…wins…”
Dead gods, it was annoying to carve. Saliss worked the blade with all his strength, trying not to waste another potion for that. He’d only spent about ten minutes all told, but he was conscious of the time-crunch, and when he thought the two holes were big enough, he found some cotton, stuffed the highest-grade Thunderclap Vials into each hole, and covered them with Giantshammer Glue, taking care to avoid leaving the slightest gap.
Now, in theory, the Thunderclap Potions would explode and the shockwave would transmit through the ice. There was a chance they’d just sunder the place where glue met ice, but Saliss’ estimations had the glue’s adhesion being stronger than that.
If this doesn’t work, I might get to test one of my seith potions. But I doubt Edellein wants to pay that. Saliss stood up and shouted.
“Alright, ladies and gentlemen! Stand back!”
The [Soldiers] milling about retreated as officers bawled the order. Saliss waited until they were fifty feet away before clearing his throat.
“Further back. You may see ice falling on you! If that happens, I advise you to not be there when it lands! Now, all I have to do is set them off…”
Theatrically, he bent down, and his audience saw him light a match. Then stare at the glue-covered caps where the vials were lodged inside. Saliss hesitated.
“Ah.”
“Don’t tell me that idiot’s forgotten to put a fuse on his vials!”
Saliss distinctly heard Shark Captain Femar grouse to laughter and groans from his audience. Saliss spun around.
“Hey, Shark Captain Femar, when I want advice from Zeres’ Admiralty, I’ll go to Admiral Asale! Hold on, I just have to…”
He began kicking at the glue caps and trying to pry one up. He saw Edellein glaring and issuing orders, but only a few of the Alchecorps stirred. They were watching him, and Strategist Esor was sighing. Saliss turned to his jeering audience.
Only Mivifa was watching with a resigned expression, and Saliss couldn’t help but notice that Captain Bevussa was also flying well clear of the icewalls. Smart kid. He winked at her, then put his hands on his hips.
“You know what would be really handy here? [Remote Detonation]. Oh sh—”
The explosion blew him off the icewalls and straight into the air. Which Saliss had known; he’d been standing on one of the gluecaps.
Thank goodness for [Disable Friendly Fire]. It came in real handy in moments like these, when standing in the epicenter of an explosion was, in fact, the safest place to be.
He had the satisfaction of hearing surprised screams and shouts—[Blastproof Hearing] was a Skill he’d gotten when he was Level 11, thankfully. Old Xif was more than a little deaf at his age from all the bangs of things going off.
Saliss twisted around in the air, prepared to land fairly hard, but knowing he’d survive the impact. Now, aside from that cloud of smoke, what kind of damage…
He caught sight of the ice wall and swore mildly. It was still standing! But there were huge cracks running along it; it had shattered like glass, but only a few places had pieces missing.
Dead gods, what the hell kind of bird is that? Super-monsters indeed! This is definitely a Named-rank threat and—
“Got you!”
Bevussa caught Saliss in midair. He was so shocked he nearly punched her before he realized she was slowing his descent. Saliss came down and blinked.
“Er, thanks, Captain. Good flying.”
“You learn to catch rookies in the flight wings. Nice explosion, Alchemist! Though that wall’s tough as mithril!”
“Not quite, but I really thought I’d have a hole. Oh well.”
Saliss strode forwards in the refreshing silence and took a look at the wall. General Edellein was shaking his head.
“You’ve cracked it, Alchemist. Alright, let’s get some rams and—”
The [Alchemist] pulled a vial, uncorked it with one thumb, and tossed it.
Potion of Blast—his recipe. [Flask: Directional Force] meant it didn’t blow backwards onto his audience. This time, the shockwave illuminated Saliss’ body as he turned.
“No wall beats me.”
A piece of ice twice as large as Edellein’s tent slid to the ground with a crash. More pieces showered away from the camp. To his credit, the Supreme General barely flinched. Saliss juggled six vials. He grinned.
“Stand back! You soldiers can haul the pieces away once I’m done with them.”
He grinned at the cheers; [Soldiers] loved a spectacle. Even Edellein smiled as he gave Saliss an indulgent wave before leaning over to ask Esor how much six of Saliss’ potions cost.
The Drake flicked the potions up, calculating six spots along the wall to hit. He had perfect aim; synchronizing the throws to land at the same time and blast the right way took a bit more effort, but the wall was already broken inwards from his first Potion of Blast. Six more would give them the holes they wanted.
Saliss flicked his claw out as he spun, and he—missed—his grab for the Potion of Blast. And the other six. He started.
He never missed—Saliss grabbed one of the falling vials and blinked. Something was embedding in the enchanted glass of each one, and it had thrown their trajectory off. A…
Playing card? Saliss blinked at it in shock as Edellein turned. Then he cursed.
“Oh no, not—”
This time it wasn’t his explosion. Nor was the shower of confetti his. Saliss saw a figure leaping into a cloud of smoke, and then he was right there. That preening popinjay wearing a ringmaster’s coat in red, cards falling from his fingers. And the mustache.
What kind of Gnoll had a mustache?
“[Soldiers] of the Walled Cities, I hear you have a little ice problem! Not to fear, I’m here! Who needs a little potion when you’ve got magic?”
The voice boomed and rolled over the audience, and they gasped as the smoke cleared and he swept a bow. Saliss’ smile vanished.
“Deyss.”
“That’s—the Magician?”
Edellein coughed, and the Gnoll boomed.
“Deyssdra the Spectacular! And now, for my first trick—making this ice wall vanish! Thank you, Adventurer Saliss, for the warmup!”
He spun, and Saliss saw a young Drake in a helper’s flashy uniform run up. A female Drake wearing makeup—Deyss always had an assistant. The Named-rank grinned. Then his apprentice tossed up a bag of holding.
“Nothing up my sleeves—”
“I did that already! Deyss, you hack! Go back home to Salazsar!”
Saliss shouted, and the [Magician] winked at him. Then he shrugged and flipped the Bag of Holding at the wall. He threw it deceptively slow—only the highest-level people probably saw the bag of holding release its payload at around a hundred miles per hour. A baseball ace’s pitch combined with, oh…
A bag of holding that could hold four hundred pounds of weight.
That idiot had even formed the piece of lead into a fist and painted it gold. The boom made everyone around Saliss flinch. He just glared as the wall splintered inwards. The section of the wall vanished and chunks of ice showered onto the grass. Deyss took a bow to the cheers. The golden fist vanished as he waved his hands, and a handkerchief floated down where it had been.
“That was just a warmup. Now, how about a fireball? I’m sure I have one—”
He produced a match, lit it, and then swallowed the flame. His cheeks puffed out, and he blew an oversized [Fireball] straight at the wall of ice. Everyone gasped, but the [Fireball] vanished before it could hit the wall of ice. Instead, a glass jar dinked off the ice. Deyssdra recoiled, then turned.
“Oops. Did I do that?”
Saliss of Lights polished his claws on his side. He flipped a Potion of Blast up.
“Sorry, Deyss. I was just blowing this wall up. Like so—”
His potion hit the wall, and the explosion kicked several tents near it skywards. Deyssdra the Spectacular laughed.
“Saliss! The second-most entertaining Named-rank in the Walled Cities!”
Saliss mimicked Deyss, spreading his arms in a mock greeting.
“You know, I always thought Tessa was the most entertaining Named-rank in Salazsar, it’s true. Why don’t you go do some card tricks, Deyss? Is that a new apprentice? What happened to the last one? Fall into another magic hat?”
The Gnoll’s teeth ground together, and he chuckled.
“Okay. So you think you know how to make things disappear? You’ve got no elegance, Saliss, no showmanship. No class.”
He blew his nose into a handkerchief and tossed it over one shoulder. The falling sword cracked the wall of ice. Saliss tossed another vial.
“I make things go boom.”
To his annoyance, the Gnoll performed a flying dive off his impromptu stage. He caught the vial and whirled.
“That’s you and vials. How about a hand of cards?”
He threw a flurry of them, and Saliss saw a dozen throwing cards hit the wall of ice, stick in the ice, and glow. This time, the explosions knocked more pieces of ice down, and Saliss rolled his eyes.
That’s just showy. I can blow a bigger piece out, and he knows it. But Deyssdra was playing to his audience.
“Oho. A single hand not good enough? What about the full deck?”
He spread two huge hands of cards and tossed them at the walls. A pop of air; Saliss innocently closed his Jar of Air as the vortex blew the cards into the air where they rained down. The [Magician] turned.
“Saliss, come on—”
Mivifa began, but he glared at her, and she remembered that he and Deyss didn’t get on. The show-off from Salazsar coughed into one fist.
“Assistant? Let’s give Saliss a hand.”
She tossed up another bag of holding, and Saliss flicked up a glowing vial, waiting for Deyss to try to hit it with his throwing cards. His aim was spectacular. The Gnoll grinned as he juggled a bowling pin, a trio of cards, the bag of holding, and a cup into the air. Every head swung from Saliss of Lights to Deyssdra the Spectacular.
The two Named-rank adventurers lifted a hand to throw—and the wall of flames blasted past them and hit the ice wall like the crashing of crackling waves. Saliss blinked; Deyssdra spun and nearly dropped the bag of holding. They turned.
“Huh?”
A band of eight Drakes exhaled again, and the combined wave of Dragonbreath washed over the ice wall, melting and breaking apart the weakened ice. The multi-colored flames burned strongest with blue flames; the same color as the flames wreathing the leader’s armor.
The Heartflame Breastplate burned on Captain Keldrass’ chest as his team, the Flamewardens, burned a groove into the ice wall. Then there was a crash of ice as a section of wall fell in.
“Flamewardens—pause!”
Keldrass held up a fist, and his team stopped breathing as another section of wall collapsed, water steaming upwards and pooling on the ground.
Saliss saw the Drake nod and then call out.
“[Mark Target]—that breach! Inhale, breathe!”
His team burned another weakened section of the wall as someone, Major Zifren, gasped.
“The Heartflame Breastplate! The Flamewardens!”
Then everyone was crowding around to see the famed Relic, and one of Saliss’ potions bounced off his foot. He picked it up and dusted it off as Deyssdra the Spectacular lowered his paws. The Gold-rank team continued breathing until General Edellein stormed over, beaming. Then Captain Keldrass was blinking around in the confusion.
“Well, I heard there was an obstruction, so I had my team double-time to the spot. I saw we were breaking it down and—”
Saliss heard no more in the excitement. The Named-rank [Alchemist] folded his arms. He glared at Deyssdra as the Gnoll ruefully adjusted his tophat. Saliss kicked at a piece of ice on the ground.
“Showoffs.”
 
——
 
Salazsar’s Named-rank had arrived along with their leadership. The fanciful [Magician]—and he was a [Magician], not a [Mage], a very important distinction—was Salazsar’s famous champion. Beloved in the expensive City of Gems as an entertainer.
Saliss preferred Tessa, who was realer for all her problems. He preferred a lot of adventurers over Deyss, in fact, and glowered the entire time Salazsar’s commander was introducing herself.
“It took us a while to re-order our [Soldiers], General Edellein. Without magic, the Gem Regiments are badly handicapped, but I’ve taken the liberty of bringing a number of specialists for this expedition. Adventurer Deyssdra is evidence of the City of Gem’s commitment to this effort, and I have a letter from the Wall Ladies and Lords of Salazsar congratulating you on your rank.”
“Wonderful, Wall Lady…?”
“Navine Gemscale.”
Saliss vaguely recognized the name, but the purple scales were a dead giveaway. He raised his brows as she glanced around the warcamp. Now here was someone who didn’t lead armies, but fit with Salazsar’s mentality. A corporate leader—he wondered how inept she might be.
However, he was mostly just glaring at the Gnoll who gave Edellein a handshake—his hand came away, and the [General] nearly dropped the fake hand before laughing. Deyssdra winked at him.
“And I hope to provide some levity for our hard-working [Soldiers], General! I put on performances nightly—with permission, of course! When I heard about the New Lands, I had to stop touring and go back to my roots!”
“This is a delight, Adventurer Deyssdra! I’m certain the troops will appreciate your presence, as do I! I’ve always wanted to see one of your shows—and of course, let me introduce my command and Saliss of Lights, whom I believe you know?”
Navine Gemscale did a double-take when she saw Saliss’ naked form, but she shook his hand, trying to pretend she wasn’t rattled. Saliss turned as the Gnoll beamed.
“Ah, Saliss, once again, a pleasure for us old dogs, eh?”
“Hey, Deyss. How’re the kids?”
Saliss’ voice was flat, but the Gnoll ignored that, twiddling his mustache and beaming around his audience. Which was everyone at all times.
“Is that Mivifa I saw back there? A delight, a delight to be among such fine Named-ranks. Will any more be coming?”
“None with the Walled Cities, I think. Maybe from Fissival? But they haven’t said. Four Named-ranks should account for most threats.”
Edellein rubbed his claws together, and Deyssdra threw him another low bow.
“One can only hope, General! With your permission, I shall set up my camp—my assistant, Neys, may have a few questions about resources and whatnot. But rest assured, I shall be performing in your mess halls tonight!”
“Sawing people in half, asking which card he’s holding up, and making rabbits disappear into his hat.”
Saliss muttered as the Gnoll strode out of the tent. Esor blinked at him.
“I thought you would get along well with Adventurer Deyssdra, Saliss. He’s certainly as, uh, flamboyant as you.”
“Me?”
The [Alchemist] pointed at his chest, outraged. He glared at Esor.
“I make things go boom. Deyss sprinkles glitter everywhere and does some fancy sleight of hand. We’re nothing alike.”
“But you’re both showoffs, I mean, er—”
Esor realized he was putting his foot in it as Saliss’ glower intensified. The Drake stuck a finger up as he leaned closer to Esor.
“We’re nothing alike. And I throw better than he does!”
He stomped off, and Navine Gemscale blinked at Saliss’ back.
“I thought that Saliss of Lights was supposed to be a humorous adventurer. Full of pranks. Adventurer Deyssdra was complimentary enough about him on the way here!”
Edellein shook his head as he indicated the war tent.
“I’m afraid he’s moodier than one would think, Wall Lady. But you learn to deal with adventurers in a command setting. May I offer you refreshments? How, exactly, is Salazsar? I heard about the Last Defenders of the Wall, and I must say, the memories that brought back…”
 
——
 
The Flamewardens of Pallass were so popular that Saliss didn’t even see them as he kicked around camp. He was still kicking over tent pegs and glowering at a few camp-dogs from Manus when Mivifa found him.
“There you are. Saliss, come greet the other adventurers from Salazsar and those Flamewardens. Stop sulking. You got to blow up most of the wall!”
“I’m not sulking, your face is sulking.”
He glared at the ground, and she exhaled hard.
“I don’t know why you and Deyss hate each other’s guts so much. You used to be inseparable!”
“I don’t hate him. Feathi hates him.”
She raised a fist.
“If you don’t stop throwing a tantrum, I will hit you. This is what he’s like, Bevussa. Don’t let the act fool you; every Named-rank is a child deep down.”
His head snapped up; he hadn’t realized Mivifa had company! Captain Bevussa hid a smile as she flew down. Saliss glowered at Mivifa. She gave him a ‘you did this to yourself’ glower.
“I’ve heard of Deyssdra the Spectacular, but even when I flew to Salazsar, I only heard he was on tour.”
“He visits lots of cities with his act. He’s more stage magician than Named-rank.”
Mivifa swatted at Saliss.
“He’s as much adventurer as Saliss is, Bevussa. Don’t mind him. The two fight like a cat and dog, but I swear they like each other. I think it’s the showing off—one just has to outdo the other. Deyssdra’s a bit of an odd fighter. He’s got a bag of tricks, and once that runs out, he’s more of a utility backup. But an odd one; Saliss is more of a frontliner. You’ll be glad with Deyssdra at your back, though. Come on, Saliss.”
She wanted to tug him away, and Saliss let himself be pulled all of fifteen feet—almost into a Drake, who offered Mivifa a salute.
“Adventurer Mivifa! Saliss of Lights! I apologize if my team stepped on any tails back there! I didn’t realize I was interfering with Adventurer Deyssdra’s performance; I just saw the problem and hit it. Bevussa, is that you? It’s been months!”
The Drake looked slimmer without his armor, but only just. Saliss blinked as Captain Keldrass of the Flamewardens ducked out from behind a tent.
“Keldrass, is that you? How’d you get out of that crowd?”
Bevussa exclaimed and clasped his forearms. Another old soldier of Pallass—it was a trend with a lot of adventurers, Saliss included. Mivifa smiled as Keldrass jerked a thumbclaw over his shoulder.
“I gave the armor to Mittch, my second-in-command. Everyone just stares at the armor. I had to duck away to apologize—Adventurer Saliss, it’s an honor to work alongside you again, sir.”
He was so earnest it made Saliss embarrassed to be sulking. The [Alchemist] waved a claw.
“Bah, I don’t care if you got the wall. I like the flames. Very colorful. It’s Deyss that annoys me. Throwing his cards around, and you just know he was waiting for the big entrance. He’s a showoff, that one.”
Mivifa rolled her eyes, but Keldrass breathed out in relief. He coughed, thumped his chest, but didn’t exhibit the normal effects of overuse of Dragonbreath that Saliss normally saw—and they had been hot flames.
“That’s a relief. We just marched into the New Lands; we had intended to be here two days earlier, but the breastplate attracts way too much attention. We’ve had to guard it like hawks, and we sleep with it on. Well, mostly me, to be honest. It’s eerie how powerful it is—I feel like my Dragonbreath is three times as strong as it used to be.”
Now, Saliss remembered Keldrass at the Winter Solstice. The Drake had immolated countless undead when he’d unlocked more of the breastplate’s power. It seemed like that had led to a great change in the Drake’s capabilities.
“With the Heartflame Breastplate, your team might well be Named-rank, Captain Keldrass. So that Relic not only shields you from damage but enhances your breath attack?”
Keldrass nodded as he explained it to Mivifa.
“It’s a new function. Or rather, another one we’ve rediscovered. I swear there are more secrets, but we only have a few of them that we’ve identified. If we had the Helm of Fire…but that’s on its way to the Empire of Sands. So far, enhancing my breath is the main effect. And with my new class, well—we’re being recertified now, but I was told unofficially that within the month we’ll be allowed to call ourselves a Named-rank team so long as we have the breastplate!”
That was big. Bevussa’s beak opened, and Saliss didn’t miss the other part. He stared at Keldrass, then read something hovering above the Drake’s head.
[Oldblood Flamebreath Warrior Level 41]. Saliss smiled faintly and clapped Keldrass on the shoulder.
“You might want to get a ring of anti-appraisal there, Captain Keldrass. But hey—welcome to the big leagues. Now you get to pay for everyone’s drinks.”
Keldrass gave him a round-eyed stare, and Mivifa, who knew Saliss’ eyes, gave him a curious look. The Drake coughed a bit of smoke out.
“Th-thank you, sir. Not that we can afford to buy all the drinks. One cost of the armor is that I have an agreement to share profits with Miss Selys Shivertail, the owner of the breastplate. Worth it, of course, but it is a cost.”
He smiled, a Named-rank team’s Captain wearing a Relic so powerful that even the New Lands couldn’t drain it of magic. Then Saliss remembered Bevussa and saw her hesitate, then extend a hand.
“Well done, Keldrass. That’s wonderful news!”
She had to force a smile, and Saliss saw a clear contrast between the impoverished leader of the Wings of Pallass and the resplendent Flamewardens. Keldrass hesitated.
“Thank you, Bevussa. How’s your team doing? Did the New Lands…?”
Saliss spared Bevussa from having to bring up the anti-magic disaster with a clap on both Gold-rankers’ shoulders.
“Let’s not stand around here chatting; the eavesdroppers always come after you. How about we have a big meal at Mivifa’s?”
The Oldblood of Feathers shook her head.
“I don’t have that many provisions, Saliss! The Wings, er, ate a lot of it, and I’m not going to bother the [Quartermaster] nonstop. Let’s eat at the mess hall tonight. You know Deyss is going to perform, and everyone will love to see it. Don’t grouse at me.”
Saliss pulled a huge face, but he couldn’t deny everyone but him would have a grand old time. He glowered, but agreed, and Keldrass glanced around.
“I have to get back to my team. Bevussa, Saliss, I’d love to catch up and ask about Liscor and the Goblin King—”
Of course you would. But Saliss, despite himself, realized that Keldrass was another believer. So there was another adventurer who won a mark. He turned to Bevussa.
“I always thought Keldrass was a bit of a stick-in-the-mud. He seems to have loosened up a bit.”
“He has, and it hasn’t gone to his head. I think the inn helped with that. A Named-rank team. He deserves it. He blasted more Draugr than I can count. Good for him.”
The Garuda seemed so forlorn that Mivifa fidgeted—then spoke up too-brightly.
“Well, now the wall of ice is gone, it’s time to scout! Captain Bevussa, would your team care to show me some of the nearby landmarks? I’d love to fly with you.”
That distracted Bevussa, and she agreed that she’d love to have Mivifa check her team’s form and show her what they could. They headed off, and Saliss sighed. More adventurers. More fun. No, but really, he didn’t mind having the Flamewardens…
“It’s just Deyss that’s a pain in the ass. That brightly-colored rat. No one likes him. Every Gnoll I know says he smells, that’s why he got kicked out of the tribes. And he’s a horrible boss, so all his apprentices quit on him. Plus, he has Yellow Rivers. Magical Yellow Rivers. Incurable. I hear he was the first person to spread it around.”
He spoke to the air until a shadow moved out from a tent. A Gnoll, his cloak shimmering as it stopped looking like the fabric, stepped out and glared.
“It’s not like I knew you were coming with Pallass’ forces, Saliss. I thought you’d never join—well, they have you over a barrel, don’t they?”
“Deyss.”
The two faced each other, Saliss’ arms folded, the [Magician] fiddling with a card. His were sharp, and he could throw one through an enemy’s skull, but Saliss had always thought they lacked punch. Accordingly, Deyss had come up with his ‘golden punch’ trick.
He was bigger than you’d expect; not Yorm’s size, but close. But he hid all that under his colorful attire and glamour. Right now, he seemed—well, defensive.
They were always like this. Saliss glowered.
“No one forced you to come. Let me guess, you volunteered.”
“Showing willingness and patriotism isn’t a bad thing, Saliss. You should try it. Salazsar’s all aflurry with the Last Defenders of the Wall coming back. We have everyone from old Eschowar to Navine’s father, Wall Lord Zail. I’m doing my part.”
“Performing for General Edellein and everyone else.”
Saliss sneered, and Deyss shot him a glower as he adjusted his high collar.
“I’m not going to do this with you, Saliss. I was going to ask what the hell kind of madness is coming out of Liscor. It’s either tall tales or…was there really a Goblin King?”
The [Alchemist] didn’t want to get into it right now. He shrugged.
“I’ll tell everyone later. Who’s the kid?”
“My apprentice? She’s been with me eight months. Bright. Very good with her hands and timings. Too much into the adventuring lifestyle, but I need help, and we’re with the army—she’s fifteen. Keep an eye on her.”
“You keep her out of our job, Deyss. Don’t make your problems my problems.”
“I’m asking you to—”
The Gnoll’s hackles rose, and they glared at each other. A few passersby saw the uncharacteristically mad Named-ranks, known for their good humor and entertaining affect, and stared. Saliss and Deyss paused, then stepped into one of the tents to argue. Saliss was ready to go again, but Deyss just rubbed at his face.
“Let’s not fight. How’s Mirn?”
“…Fine. He’s got an annoying new kid to look after—same old, same old. How’s Laszi?”
Deyss fiddled with a cufflink.
“Doing fine—I think. I try not to check in that often, you know.”
“Don’t want to remind everyone about your terrible indiscretions?”
The Gnoll grabbed Saliss’ shoulder.
“It beats waging a one-Drake war against an entire Walled City! Now, if you don’t mind, can we be professionals for five seconds while we’re about to fight monsters in the New Lands or are you going to do this the entire time?”
The [Alchemist] relaxed after a long moment. He tried to stop glowering, but that was, after all, a difference between them. Saliss was an Architect. Mirn was a Sentry.
Deyssdra was a Mason, someone who built things and who preferred to earn favor and accede where he could. It was a philosophical difference between them. Saliss called it cowardice; Deyss called it pragmatism.
“—Odd to see Mivifa here.”
Deyss changed the subject again, and Saliss shrugged.
“She says her obligations in Oteslia vanished.”
“Hmpf. Oteslia…I hear it’s rife with criminals having a damn war on the streets. Very odd she’s leaving it, but maybe it’s not as bad as I thought. I’ll tell you one thing, Saliss—Salazsar is abuzz with change, and Navine is just one element of it. Ever since Wall Lord Ilvriss came back a changed man, it’s been one thing after another.”
“Oh, really? I wouldn’t know with that door to Liscor, Chaldion retiring, Thrissiam, and Goblin Kings popping out of my ass.”
The caustic tone made Deyss throw up his paws.
“I cannot with you, Saliss. Is it Onieva? Are you low on reagents or something because—”
Saliss jabbed Deyss several times in the chest.
“Stop. Meddling. And. I’ll. Stop. Being. Grumpy. Got it, Deyss? Just go be entertaining, and I’ll go murder monsters, and we can both be happy.”
The Gnoll had a sad expression on his face that made Saliss guilty. He drew himself up.
“I just thought you might want to talk to someone, Saliss.”
“About what, how much it sucks?”
Saliss spun in the entrance to the tent as a [Major] lifted the flap to his tent and halted. Both Named-ranks ignored him, and Deyss shrugged.
“Well, yes.”
Saliss stopped, and stared at Deyssdra the Spectacular, then managed to slam the tent flap against the air. He stomped off, and what made him angriest of all was that he couldn’t quite remember why he and Deyss were so mad at each other.
A long while ago, Saliss had been fighting with everything he had. He put out a call to help, and friends came, and they set part of a Walled City ablaze. They might have even won…
They’d never have won. But they tried. Saliss had called for help, and good people had come to die.
Deyssdra hadn’t. It turned out he’d been right.
Saliss had never forgiven him for it.
Old stories like that. The Named-rank was in a worse and worse mood as he stomped around camp again. Up and down, that familiar feeling.
He found Onieva staring at him in a piece of melting ice and met her gaze. Saliss walked over to rest his head against the ice.
“Damnit, Deyss. Why do we have to always fight?”
Two different kinds of people on the same side, that was all. So they fought the hardest. Deyss was a great Drake, for all he was a Gnoll. And so was Saliss.
The [Alchemist] was still standing there when Captain Lyssander found him.
 
——
 
Captain Lyssander was apprehensive, so he tried to sneak up on Saliss of Lights. A fruitless task, of course. One did not merely sneak up on a Named-rank adventurer. Well, one could do that to some of them. Zeter, for instance, had little awareness beyond that of a trained soldier. But one of the things you learned really quick in the army was that sneaking up on Zeter for a prank could be the last thing you did. It wasn’t his fault if you jumped out of a closet and his fist punched through your skull. If it was his fault, well, the Walled Cities needed Zeter more than Corporal Relln.
But the [Soldiers] remembered. They had a kind of hive-like intelligence and memory that lost a lot as generations retired or casualties took them away, and the facts got distorted, but they remembered…moments. Yes, Lyss knew the irony of comparing Manus’ army to a hive. But it fit, so why couldn’t he say it?
That was the refrain he’d often heard coming from his mouth before he was told to run a lap around Manus. Why not do it this way? ‘Because we don’t’ was a stupid answer, wasn’t it? Why not try that? Why not…
Saliss of Lights was nothing like the notes in his files. As a [Captain] of Manus, Lyssander had access to a lot of files that a civilian would envy. Like notes on active Named-rank adventurers. None of the juicy stuff; that was always (REDACTED), but he’d read Saliss’ file by accident once and thought it was describing some scarred war veteran like Spearmaster Lulv, all intensity and excellence. Not a silly, naked Drake like the [Alchemist] acted like. But was that Lyss’ eyes deceiving him?
The Drake expected to be noticed as he edged closer, but somehow, it seemed like the [Alchemist] didn’t see him or was pretending not to. He was staring at a piece of ice on the ground, which barely melted even under the morning’s sun. And speaking?
“Why are you looking at me like that?”
Lyssander opened his mouth, but the question wasn’t directed at him. Saliss kept his eyes focused on the piece of ice, and his tail waved slowly in the grass. He seemed—disturbed. And tired.
“Stop it. I had to come here. For the seith as well as to make sure fewer idiots die than…everything important is over there, but you don’t protect that by staying. I can’t. The flowers are gone. I can’t bring you back easily. It’s going to be harder unless I can find—”
Silence. As if he could hear someone, the Drake tilted his head. Closed his eyes.
“Okay, you really shouldn’t be able to talk. I’m going crazy. For real this time. Or is it the palace? I never even looked in a door. Like the eyes of a Bogleraum. Better never to look, but I’ll dream of it.”
He rubbed at his face, and Lyssander wondered what a ‘Bogleraum’ was. He knew plenty of monsters from his study of them before this campaign, and it didn’t ring a bell. Saliss shook his head.
“Disappointed? What are you, the Old Man? Disappointed…why do you think I’m here?”
He stabbed a claw towards the ground, and then his face went blank. Saliss twisted around so fast that Lyssander started. The Drake had a claw holding a vial in a second, and Lyssander’s scales shivered as he saw the claw on the cork top, about to unleash…
“Alchemist Saliss, I apologize if I’m interrupting! I, uh, hope I could have a word?”
Lyssander saw Saliss stare at him, then glance at the piece of ice. The [Alchemist] didn’t smile. He grimaced before putting on that fake smile.
“Wonderful. What?”
The young [Captain] ducked his head and approached, feeling as though he’d already messed it up, but—
He had to ask. He was getting tired of it, that sense of disdain, no, the alienation he felt like he didn’t deserve. Lyss truly felt like Saliss had liked him for a second, or at least, not minded him. So—he took a breath and glanced at the piece of ice.
There was nothing there. Just his reflection.
 
——
 
Of all the Drakes to appear, Lyssander was not the one Saliss wanted to talk to. Especially not now as he was trying to admire her, again. Well, the image in the ice.
Onieva. Her features were bright, alluring. Perfect. She was no Oldblood, but she had a unique pattern of scales, and her mismatched eyes were filled with all the potential and dreams of someone who could still have them.
She was younger too. That was maybe, okay, definitely vanity, but that was part of the desire. Not just the picture he wished he could see in a mirror, but the chance to try again and capture those lost years.
Saliss was 50 years old. He knew he didn’t look like it; alchemy had a way of preserving you, especially if you were an expert in altering the physical form like he was. But Onieva…
Sometimes he wished she really were a separate person. But no, it was just him. His…
Reflection. Saliss closed his eyes and thought. Dead gods, Lyssander was back. Saliss had to just chase him away.
Part of him didn’t want to do that. Part of him said—just tell the kid. Mirn would kill him for dancing around the subject so much. What was he doing?
Nothing, that was what. This was not his job. He was, at best, Saliss the Architect. Mirn was the Sentry.
Stupid terms. He was whatever he was, and here was a kid who…
The danger was insane. This wasn’t some random kid on the street, and Saliss couldn’t disguise himself to have a word. This was a [Captain] of Manus.
A kid. A kid who was so genuinely naïve…how did he not get it? This had to be an act. He’d wise up and figure it out—
Now he sounded like all the old elders with their wisdom. Fit in, shape up, don’t rock the boat. Saliss ground his teeth together.
“Alchemist? Is something wrong?”
“No, just admiring my reflection. What, you never do that?”
“Er…no, sir.”
Saliss stared at Lyssander, thinking furiously as the [Captain] fidgeted.
I’ve done this so many times, and he’d be happier not to know. He…
Deyss was the one who gave up. Stopped fighting. And in a way, Saliss had too. No more riots. No more wars. He’d lost his wars. They had never killed him. Just everyone else. What good was fighting a war where everyone you loved died?
It could always get worse. And there was no way to move a city that he had ever found. Zel Shivertail couldn’t do it. It could get so much worse…
He didn’t know. He didn’t know if it would just be kinder not to tell this kid. Because being suspected of something was one thing. Being that? It was so much harder.
No good answers. So Saliss just focused on the conversation itself. The kid was saying something.
“Alchemist, I, ah, apologize for interrupting you. I know this may be unprofessional, but I wanted to apologize.”
“Apologize? For what?”
Saliss grinned at Lyssander, and the [Captain] ducked his head. Dead gods, what was he, twenty-five at most? Maybe even younger. He’d probably been in the academy for a number of years, but how many times had he seen battle? How long was he going to live in Manus’ forces? Reaching their lovely retirement years was a luxury so, so few ever attained…and they’d keep pulling you out, like General Rigrel.
“Yes, sir. I feel like I’ve offended you somehow. I—wanted to beg your forgiveness and ask what my mistake was. It seems to be a pattern I can’t break, but I need to.”
Lyss’ words took Saliss’ breath away like a punch to the gut. Out of the corner of his eye, he heard Onieva sigh.
“See?”
The [Alchemist] put on a self-indulgent smirk he didn’t feel. He snorted and scoffed at Lyss, who blinked.
“You didn’t do anything wrong, Captain Lyss. Hey, what’s with all the self-recriminations? I’m a snooty Named-rank! Don’t get in your feelings if I say hi, then I don’t hang out. Frankly, kid, it’s hard to talk to anyone who’s not my level or a fellow adventurer. I don’t even hang out with the Gold-rankers. No offense to you or Yorm, but [Captains] are sort of, y’know, boring?”
He paused and pretended to think.
“Unless you’re a real specialist. There’s this former Drake [Sergeant] who’s decent. Real corn, you know? You’re more like, uh, well, not even baby corn. Brussel sprouts. You gotta respect that they exist, but no one’s reaching for you instead of grilled corn, you know?”
There, that was one of his most confusing analogies thrown at Lyss. Plenty of ways he could explain the corn thing or talk about Relc—but the young [Captain] refused to take the bait.
“Sir, I can’t help but feel that’s not true. I think that I’ve made a bad impression on you. Presented myself or acted in some way—I would sincerely love any honesty from you. I know there is an issue, and if it is my affect or something I’m doing, I can knock it off. But I have to have it pointed out to me, and no one is willing to do that. Not Lulv, not General Rigrel—not my commander. If it’s a hard conversation to have, well, I hoped a Named-rank adventurer could have it.”
Great, it wasn’t his decision after all. Suddenly, Saliss was sweating under his scales.
Why me? Why the hell me? He glanced to the side, then snapped.
“Why me? Go bother Yorm or someone, Captain Lyssander! Do you think I’m the model of propriety? Look at me—I’m naked! My entire thing is annoying people and being a disturbance!”
He indicated his nude form, which was, as he had once told Erin, on purpose. The effect, the pranks—a rebellion against his Walled City wanting him to be the good adventurer, against Chaldion. Decades long, never-ending, but not the white-hot defiance it had used to be.
Stale as Deyss’ act, in a way. That was what being old was—but Lyssander was too earnest. Saliss didn’t like him. He’d liked Erin, who was buried a thousand layers deep, like an onion. Who got the mask you had to wear to avoid scaring the normal, ‘reasonable’ people, and who was willing to throw the Potion of Blast into the fire if she needed to. Mad and determined.
Lyss sounded like a kid for all he was a [Soldier] trained to take lives.
“I’m sorry, Adventure Saliss—but I was looking forward to meeting you.”
“Pull the other tail. You were looking forward to meeting me? Listen, even the Alchecorps of Pallass don’t ‘look forward’ to meeting me. Now and then, I get a few rookies who want to hear tips, but I don’t get admirers. Mivifa, now, everyone loves her. What makes me so special? Did I save your village? Are you a huge fan of the way I blew up the Assassin’s Guild or something?”
Goodwill ran out in everyone. The appreciation over the Wyvern attack had faded away months ago in Pallass. Only a few people like Shirka never seemed to forget, and that was because he’d been the only person there. But once again, Lyssander surprised him. He scuffed a boot against the ground, embarrassed.
“Uh, truthfully, I don’t know many stories about you, Adventurer Saliss. Manus tells the one about the only time you went to war…”
Death and damnation. Chaldion screaming at him in the fallout as he laughed and showed them exactly what revenge looked like. Revenge for poison and a single city block they just couldn’t let go—
Saliss blinked the memories away, and Lyss went on.
“…but it was when I was trying to study new sword forms that I learned about you, sir.”
“What?”
Suddenly, he had no idea where this was going. Saliss peered at Lyss as the Drake tried to explain.
“I’ve studied every manual and book on Skills that I have access to as a [Captain], Alchemist! It’s, well, the only way I can keep up. Ever since I ran into Lieutenant Comois years ago, I realized how bad I was at swinging a sword. The Trial of Blades, seeing actual combat, the Village of the Dead, all prove it. I’m not an idiot. My entire regiment watched the Trial of Blades, and half the idiots talked like they could take out those Goblins with one hand tied behind their back. That swordmaster on the wolf…I knew I couldn’t best him, and I knew how good Comois was, and he died there.”
Ah. Another thing that marked Lyss as rare, especially given his age. He was aware that he was a small frog in a very big well. Saliss shrugged.
“You’re comparing yourself to a Revenant and a [Blademistress] from legends. But go on.”
“It’s not just recently, Alchemist. I’ve been searching for ways to improve since I became an officer. It’s, well, it’s because I’m just not gifted naturally.”
Saliss eyed Lyssander up and down, and he could tell the Drake had a strong sense of balance, fast instincts, and a natural level of athleticism. Saliss raised one brow.
“Yeah…that’s not true.”
“It is, sir! I don’t have the sheer strength or the Skills other officers do. I can swing a sword all day, but someone like the Shark Captain of Zeres is three or four times stronger than I am. In a duel with someone like that, you die fast if you practice any of Manus’ regular sword forms.”
Okay, that was true. Everyone liked to talk a big game about skill and technique overcoming any level of strength, but as far as Saliss had observed, strength tended to triumph the moment technique made a mistake. Just look at the King of Destruction vs the King of Duels. The much-lauded Raelt had scored a lot of blows while Flos Reimarch was punching him through stone walls.
The same with the late Torreb; combine strength and technique and it was hard to out-perform that.
“I still don’t see what that has to do with me…”
Though his instincts were telling him he sort of did know. Lyss nodded rapidly.
“Getting to the point, sir—I was perusing a list of teachers to find someone who could train me in non-standard ways. Even teach me a Skill. That’s when I ran across your name. You’re the only living teacher in grappling, three sword styles, and assassination techniques! You know the Sword Spider school, don’t you? None of my instructors could show me anything.”
He was visibly excited, and Saliss was so surprised he uncrossed his arms and stared for a second. Then he scowled.
“Manus loves their stupid lists. I knew I should have burned their files…but they have like three backups. Don’t believe everything that’s written. There’s [Assassins] not in their public files who’re way better than me. As for the other stuff, Manus only keeps those files on people friendly to them. There are plenty of Drakes and Gnolls across Izril who could do any of that.”
“But it is true, sir?”
Saliss glowered.
“Half of Manus’ officers could teach you grappling. Lulv is a hand-to-hand expert.”
“Not in, uh, submission grappling? Is that the right term?”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Whomever wrote that down didn’t even know what it was. All I know how to do is toss someone heavier or wriggle around them and put them in a chokehold. All the ignoble stuff that Drakes don’t like learning because it’s not brave enough or they can’t deal with the touchy-feely stuff. I learned it in Nerrhavia’s Fallen where they teach wrestling.”
“But that’s the kind of thing I wanted to learn, sir—excuse me. I’ve gotten off track. That’s, uh, how I knew you. And how I knew you were the top candidate in the Officer Trials. You could have been one of Pallass’ best [Commanders]!”
Lyss gave him that shining-eyed expression that made Saliss want to slap it off him. The [Alchemist] replied flatly.
“That was someone else’s dream. Not mine. Do I look like I want to lace up my boots and fit right in the jolly old army?”
I’d have done it. It might have even made me happy if Chaldion would have let me be me. Now, he’s going to ask you. What do I say? Truth or lie? Truth or—
Lyssander was nodding and peering at the ground again.
“Well, Adventurer Saliss—I can respect you not having the time to teach or the desire. But that’s not why you stopped talking to me, is it? It’s…what Comois said, isn’t it? The Turnscale thing? I swear I’m not—I don’t do—”
He struggled, red-faced.
“If it’s something I’m doing wrong, I can stop it! It is that, isn’t it? I’ve ignored the comments because I thought they were just insults, but I asked Captain Yorm to his face, and he hinted it was that.”
That muscle-headed idiot. Why couldn’t he just say it outright? Instead, it was Saliss. You had to have a Named-rank for the hard stuff.
Again, he felt like someone was trying to melt part of his stomach out of his guts, but it wasn’t actually hard to figure out what to do. There was only, objectively, one right call to make. Mirn would have done the exact same thing. He would have. Saliss forced a casual smile and shrugged.
“Listen, I’m not an expert on the exact nuances of an army, Lyss. It’s been too long, and Manus isn’t Pallass. But—if you’re twisting my tail here—”
He swallowed hard and felt like his throat were covered in gravel. Lyss was waiting, standing to attention, and Saliss stared past him at a tent.
“Well yeah, that’s probably it. It’s not one big thing, but a bunch of little things. The way you hug people, commenting on Yorm—it’s not like that’s unacceptable! It’s just the nuance of how you’re saying it that comes off T-Turnscale. You know. Just, uh, watch how you word things. Refrain from commenting.”
He realized he was parroting exactly what Spearmaster Lulv had advised, but the words were already coming out of his mouth. He…couldn’t look at his reflection as he said that. Just his feet. When he glanced up, Lyss was shaking his head, his face agonized.
“But I’m not—! I just say what’s obvious. What’s normal. Don’t I? I’ve heard plenty of other [Soldiers] saying the same thing.”
“Female soldiers, maybe. You’re not supposed to say that about fellow guys, kid.”
Saliss’ mouth was working on autopilot. He continued, rushing on, as Lyss’ face screwed up, and he began to look around. With a sense of sudden—guilt. As if he hadn’t realized something was wrong until someone had pointed it out. Saliss.
“You should, uh, look into the matter.”
“Look into it? How?”
“—Ask some questions next time you’re on break in Manus. You know? Have a conversation with some civilians. B—somewhere you can broach the subject where it’s not a bunch of touchy [Soldiers]. Then you can, uh, figure out what’s…wrong. But in general, yeah. That’s it. Not like it’ll change things right away, even if you act different.”
Lyssander had a reputation. It’d take years, and he might have to transfer commands, and the rumors would still follow him around. He’d probably have to punch a few people to clear his name.
Clear his name from the taint of being a Turnscale. Captain Lyssander’s head was hanging low. Then it rose, and he gave Saliss what seemed to be a genuine smile. Pained, but he saluted crisply.
“So that’s it. Thank you for telling me, Alchemist Saliss. Hah. It’s sort of funny. All this fuss and it’s just down to how I’m talking and acting. I can change that. I was worried it was something else that I couldn’t fix.”
He was a good [Swordsman] after all. Because Saliss couldn’t respond around the piercing blade running through his heart for a moment. Lyssander gazed around, then nodded.
“I’ll—figure out the rest, sir. I don’t want to take more of your time up. But I hope you see I can improve. My company will be better for it. All the lads and lasses have been supporting me despite the shit they get. I’ll make it up to them.”
He seemed relaxed as he grinned and put his hands in his pockets. Then he turned and walked away. Saliss stood there, and he tried to swallow the words bubbling up from within.
Come back. That’s not what I meant! Come back and let me explain—
But that was exactly what he meant. Lyssander had to knock it off. He had to quit being so damn obvious or someone would decide to do more than just harass him. If he were in Pallass, Mirn would be on anyone who was that obvious in a heartbeat. Because it’d get them hurt or killed…
After that, if Lyss listened, Mirn would talk to someone in Manus or another city, and they’d get him on the right track. Then he could start figuring it out. That was how it would go. This was the correct order of operations, like an alchemist formula. Hells, he didn’t even seem that beat up about it.
But it felt like Saliss was mixing poison. He felt sick. He stared at the melting piece of ice, wishing Onieva didn’t have that agonized expression on her face. He muttered to himself.
“I did the right thing. I did. Even in Rose’s world, that fairytale that’s supposed to be better, it was like this. You hold out and keep them alive. There’s no future for the dead.”
He spoke to the piece of ice. All he saw was her desolate face. Saliss stood in the empty part of the camp as the army marched around him, and his scales itched.
He always felt like he was in the wrong body. Often felt out of place, unwanted, and certainly unloved by people whom he had always wanted to respect him.
But he had seldom felt like that idea of Turnscales everyone hated so much. Small, disgusting, pathetic. A disgrace to the Walled Cities.
 
——
 
Aside from the ice wall incident and the excitement of the morning, nothing really occurred until the evening dinner. It was a big meal with extra rations for all to celebrate Salazsar’s arrival, and the main mess hall tent was packed.
That was because Deyssdra the Spectacular was performing on an impromptu stage, and [Soldiers] were sitting cheek-to-jowl. In fact, even the five commanders were present to watch the show. They were all sitting at a table in the back, which provided less of a good view, but such was the price of privacy and command. They were:
Fortress General Rigrel of Manus.
Green General Narrina of Oteslia.
Supreme General Edellein of Pallass.
Wall Lady Navine Gemscale, representing Salazsar.
Shark Captain Femar for Zeres.
The conversation between the five leaders was a bit trite at first; none of them were familiar with each other. If anything, Femar was the best known quantity, and he’d met Rigrel, Narrina, and Edellein before. However, his social abilities meant that he wasn’t the best leader for the conversation.
“The Serpentine Matriarch? Oh, she’s grand, grand…never been healthier! You know, she’s been focused on the New Lands like everyone else. It’s a good distraction, er, for her.”
“A distraction from what, Shark Captain?”
Navine was picking at her rations with a somewhat dubious expression. She wasn’t used to commoner fare, and all the [Generals] were eating the same meal as the [Soldiers] in this place. Femar was gnawing on a leg of mutton.
“Er, well, recent events. Those [Strategist] kids with the Blades of Serept and, uh, the army from Khelt?”
“That feels like it was a while ago.”
Green General Narrina put in. The Gnoll was eating a vegetarian plate with good humor, and she was [Druid]-trained, apparently. Edellein raised his brows as Femar scratched at his neck spines.
“Well, to you. It was only last year. The Serpentine Matriarch’s still pissed—upset. She was hoping one of the blades would be donated to her due to Zeres’ involvement in everything.”
For doing what, exactly? None of the other commanders said that out loud, of course. The Serpentine Matriarch was a rather mysterious figure, despite ruling Zeres. Reclusive and mercurial. Femar shrugged awkwardly.
“After Khelt threw that damn spear through one of our towers, she’s been furious, even though they bought her off declaring war. Getting it out was a hell of a task, and we still can’t melt it down for the gems. The Admiralty had to talk her out of sending a raiding force to Khelt.”
General Edellein began coughing as he got some salad caught in his throat. Rigrel had to thump him on the back. Send a raiding party at Khelt? That sounded like a really bad idea.
“Did she, uh, bring that up with the other Walled Cities?”
“Nah, the Admiralty talked her down. She’s just been annoyed, so the New Lands need to deliver. But that’s Zeres for you. All the ships coming in with the damn colonists are a good distraction. How’s Salazsar, Wall Lady?”
Femar flipped the conversation back to Navine with all the subtlety of a [Bartender] slapping down a mug on a table. The Wall Lady began to break into a complicated discussion of the war against Fissival, the Last Defenders of the Wall, and recent mining developments—but the other commanders were spared when the curtains on the far side of the mess hall opened and Deyssdra the Spectacular front-flipped onto the stage.
“Ladies, gentlemen, [Soldiers], [Generals], and more! Welcome to the New Lands! Fame and fortune await!”
His act was quite showy; the first thing he did was toss gold coins in a huge shower across his audience. Edellein feared a riot, but they turned into flowers as the [Soldiers] shouted and grabbed for them. Deyssdra waggled a finger as his apprentice tossed something at him; a little bag of holding? The [Soldiers] were booing.
“Ah, ah. You only get your pay once a month or so I hear!”
Laughter, and he whirled the bag up.
“Besides, fame and fortune only come after the monsters. That ice-bird was just the start. But I’ve beaten worse. In fact, I think I have a feather from a Phoenix I once bested—whoa!”
He leaned back as flames shot out of the bag of holding. A flaming Phoenix swooped across the room in a wide loop, causing several to duck, and then flew back into Deyssdra’s hat. He waved the smoke away, coughing theatrically.
“Huh, I forgot it does that. I am a Named Adventurer of many talents, as you can see! Now, throwing fire and catching lightning is all very well, but the key to my success is a steady hand. I can hit a target from a hundred feet away, blindfolded! To demonstrate you’ll be in good hands with me around—would anyone care to let me throw cards at them?”
He grinned as his helper set up a board where he could perform one of the oldest tricks in the magician’s handbook—throwing cards while blindfolded at a volunteer from the audience. General Rigrel wasn’t that impressed as he muttered to the others.
“Throwing cards? Daggers are far more intimidating.”
Narrina murmured back.
“I hear his are made of metal, General Rigrel. And that he can toss one through someone’s skull.”
Rigrel’s brows rose.
“Really? What kind of Skills are those?”
Navine smiled knowingly around at everyone.
“Aside from his aiming Skill? I think it’s mostly muscle. When he tossed that giant fist at the wall of ice, he wasn’t using a Skill. He just threw the bag of holding; there’s a little string on it. When he pulls it back, whatever’s inside comes out.”
Femar blinked.
“Hold on, bags of holding are powerful, but that thing seemed heavy as hell. Even if it’s efficient, it was probably only one-tenth the weight. Either that or he has a bag of holding that’s practically a Relic. So he was throwing what…”
An eighty pound bag at that speed? Edellein peered at Deyssdra again, and he realized the Gnoll was rather big under all his capes and his outfit. He might be a lot more muscle than anyone gave him credit for.
Since no one was leading the conversation and Deyssdra wasn’t going to captivate the commanders into complete silence, Edellein decided to fill the void.
“There’s a Named-rank I can respect and appreciate in our forces. The same with Magus Glasiaad. Some of our adventurers now—troublesome. I’ll apologize for Saliss of Lights in advance, but you know his reputation.”
Everyone nodded, and Femar shot a glower at the [Alchemist], whom he hadn’t forgiven for the flatulence prank. But Saliss appeared rather subdued tonight; he was picking at his food with Mivifa, the Wings of Pallass, the Flamewardens, and Captain Yorm’s squad. Femar grunted.
“Troublemakers are normal with Zeres. We sort things out the old-fashioned way. You run into any problems, Lady Navine, General Narrina, send them to me.”
He punched a hand into a fist with a grin, and the Gnoll [General] and Navine traded a look Edellein didn’t miss. To avoid Femar making enemies, he coughed into a fist.
“Most of our [Soldiers] are being well-behaved, the regular pranks aside. Wouldn’t you agree, General Rigrel?”
The Gnoll seemed like he wished he were already in bed. He blinked.
“Hm? Yes, mostly! Aside from a few bad apples. I still have to apologize over that fool, Lyssander. He’s still causing trouble.”
He nodded at a Drake who was sitting with his company that was relatively uncrowded, despite the press of bodies. Femar frowned at him.
“I heard comments about him. What’s his problem? Lippy? Can’t follow orders?”
General Rigrel made a face.
“If that were all of it we’d have little problem! There’s always hotheads and idiots—no, he’s a you-know-what.”
He saw Femar blink as Edellein sat up slightly. He checked, but their table was warded against eavesdropping, but in the open? Then again, Rigrel was oldschool—Navine frowned in confusion as General Narrina eyed Rigrel.
“A what, General Rigrel?”
“You know, Shark Captain. Sick in the head. Shivertail’s disease.”
Femar’s eyes widened, and Edellein muttered.
“Turnscale.”
The Shark Captain’s reaction was instantaneous. He pushed back his plate and rose slightly for a better look.
“And you’re just letting him in the army?”
“It happens, Captain Femar. Stop staring. Surely, Zeres isn’t surprised by something like that.”
Narrina spoke, and Femar twisted around to stare at her.
“Us? Not on my watch. Asale likes to handle that kind of thing—phaugh, that makes my scales crawl.”
“Ah, of course.”
Navine sighed, and Edellein reflected that much like lower-level officers, you had to understand what each commander was good at. Femar was a solid war-leader, but he imagined the Admiral of Supply was a defter claw with this kind of thing.
Edellein didn’t like it himself, of course, but he knew how to manage such elements. But it seemed that Rigrel was, like Femar, unwilling to let the matter drop. Narrina seemed far more nuanced about it—though Wall Lady Navine was patently uncomfortable.
She probably finds this topic quite distasteful. No notion of how the military has to operate. But since they were all together, Edellein lowered his voice and nodded.
“It’s something any good [General] can accommodate for, of course. In fact, that’s the same issue with my problematic adventurer.”
He nodded at Saliss, and Navine’s head snapped around. Narrina didn’t blink, nor did Rigrel; some secrets got around. But the Wall Lady did a double-take.
“Saliss of Lights is…?”
Shark Captain Femar might not have heard. He was staring at Lyssander, standing up at his table. He only peeked over when Edellein coughed.
“Yes, well, it’s a very sad story, actually. You have to pity them.”
“Pity them? General Edellein, you say the damndest things. It’s a sickness. But for that and we’d still have the Tidebreaker. But it takes the mind.”
Rigrel tapped the side of his head. The greying Gnoll got a glower from General Narrina.
“Having met the Tidebreaker, I can’t say anything was wrong about him.”
“No, no, of course, but you know…”
Edellein cleared his throat.
“In this case, it’s a tragedy. You know the story, of course?”
“What story? About that [Captain]?”
Femar sat back down, and the other four decided to ignore him. Navine shook her head wordlessly and Edellein smiled conspiratorially. He was in his element, and he nodded covertly.
“Well, it goes back to the Cyclops of Pallass. Everyone knew when he was growing up that Grand Strategist Chaldion was searching for an heir. His children and grandchildren all fell in battle—well, aside from a few tragedies—the pressure on him and them for someone to succeed him was intense. I served under one of Chaldion’s sons—brilliant man. But his most gifted successor?”
“He was being groomed as a successor to the Cyclops?”
General Narrina nodded silently, and Rigrel huffed.
“Terrible decision in hindsight.”
“He was talented! The best swordmaster, tactician…he had instructors from around the world, and his talents in alchemy didn’t hurt!”
“Are we talking about that [Captain] here? Someone should do something about that.”
Edellein shook his head.
“The tragedy was that the Grand Strategist pushed it too far, Wall Lady. He snapped. Chaldion pushed too hard, and it broke something in him. One of his greatest mistakes; you could see how it haunted the old Drake. Well, he’s still alive, but as he is…”
Navine was glancing across the room at Saliss, who was utterly oblivious to the conversation. She hesitated, though.
“Is…is that how it works?”
Edellein sat back, waving a clawed hand as he fished for a puffer stick.
“It’s the common theory. Now, of course, he has his admirers. No one will deny he’s been an asset to the Walled Cities.”
“Of course.”
Everyone could agree with that, except for Femar, who’d gotten up to go somewhere. Rigrel growled.
“Yes, that’s how it has to be done. The best you can do is use them in service to a great cause. Like the Tidebreaker. It’s when they get erratic that you can’t trust—”
It seemed like General Narrina was losing her temper, and Edellein himself wasn’t sure how much slander they should be doing of General Zel Shivertail’s name. He was spared from breaking up an argument at the commanders’ table as Shark Captain Femar sat back down.
“I need a drink. This isn’t the kind of conversation for a Wall Lady or dinner, Generals.”
“True, Shark Captain. My apologies.”
Edellein nodded at the Shark Captain, and Femar stretched out. He nodded at Captain Lyssander.
“Don’t worry, I’ve got a strong stomach, and I’ve sorted it out. Just so you don’t go shouting when the action starts.”
“Action?”
Everyone turned to him. Femar pointed, and one of his [Nautical Captains] got up slowly. A huge Gnoll and, Edellein realized, a lot of Zeresian [Sailors] were sitting just across from them. Femar gave the [Captain] a nod. The [Captain] spread his hands and gave Femar a huge frown. Femar jerked his head impatiently and glared. With a resigned expression, the [Captain] kicked back his chair and snapped something at the more-willing officers next to him.
“Shark Captain, what are you doing?”
Navine hadn’t missed that, and she grew alarmed as she saw the trajectory all the [Marines] were heading. Captain Lyssander’s table.
“Sorting it out.”
Femar wore an expression of complete confidence as he watched. Edellein opened his mouth, then turned to General Rigrel. The grey Gnoll grew palpably nervous.
“Discipline is one thing, Sharkcaptain, but this is my army. Letting Zeres handle it, why, when I was a [Sergeant], we’d be up in arms at the thought!”
That was Edellein’s line, but he relaxed as Rigrel pointed out the obvious. Too early as it turned out—Femar turned and gave the old Gnoll a nudge.
“There’s inter-city fights, and then there’s solidarity. The way I hear it, no one likes that [Captain] anyways. Let me sort it out, and you tell your boys to stand down, General Rigrel. That way you don’t have to cause bad blood inside your forces.”
“I don’t know…”
Rigrel was blinking rapidly, wavering back and forth, and Femar leaned on him. Both physically and mentally. Edellein felt the Sharkcaptain’s aura pressing down like a weight. It might have been unconscious; he gripped Rigrel’s shoulder as the old Manus commander looked up at him.
“Call it a favor, General Rigrel? Old-fashioned solutions for old-fashioned men like us.”
Don’t do it—Edellein opened his mouth, and he saw Rigrel nod. His head lowered into a nod, and he turned, beckoning for one of his [Captains]. He didn’t glance at Edellein as he muttered.
“It might work. Too many soft paws around Manus these days. Try not to cause a fuss, Shark Captain. I want to watch the performance! [Captain], tell the lads…”
Captain Femar was beaming. Edellein’s face was utterly blank. He saw the Gnoll [Captain] listen, then snap an order and stride off.
Esor glanced at Edellein from where he was standing and the two shared the same thought. This was…
Well, there was nothing to be done now. Rigrel focused on the [Magician] on stage as if that was all that mattered, and Femar gave one of his [Captains] the nod across the room.
So General Edellein sat back and watched as one of the Zeresian [Captains] strode over to the lone Captain Lyssander and the [Soldiers] of his company. He watched Manus’ [Captain] look up, then gesture at the table. The Zeresian [Captain] spat something back, and the atmosphere turned tense.
Normally, in this kind of situation, it took a few chance incidents to turn into a big brawl or ongoing hostilities between one Walled City or another. Contrary to what you might think, [Soldiers] were cautious of starting fights, especially if another city had all their buddies nearby who’d back up one of their own in a heartbeat.
However, in Manus’ case, Captain Lyssander’s company were already pariahs, and as more of Manus’ [Soldiers] turned and saw the altercation, they eyed their [General]. Rigrel was focused on the performance on stage, and he waved down several officers who began to rise.
Edellein sighed. He turned to Wall Lady Navine. Femar really couldn’t read his dinner partners. She was tense and upset as a Wall Lady unused to physical brawls in her presence would be.
“And how is…Wall Lord Ilvriss, Lady Navine? I met him once while he was around Pallass. In the north, isn’t he?”
She blinked at him and didn’t really engage with his conversation. Across the mess hall, Lyssander rose, hands outstretched, and the first [Marine] tossed a drink on him. In the localized silence, he balled a fist, then eyed the much bigger [Captain]—and all the [Marines] getting to their feet.
Still, the boy was brave. Edellein saw Lyssander throw a punch. He winced as he saw the [Nautical Captain] catch the fist. Zeres were known for being able to brawl with [Sailors]. Even Manus’ [Soldiers] wouldn’t throw hands with them casually. He sighed as the first punch tossed Captain Lyssander into another table. His company leapt to their feet and searched around for support. None was coming, and there were about three [Marines] for every one of them.
“Rough medicine. Just make sure they’re still able to march tomorrow, Shark Captain.”
Rigrel nodded approvingly as, on stage, Deyssdra’s act faltered during the fight.
 
——
 
Saliss wasn’t surprised when he heard a fight start. With five armies present, the odds were high. He expected the officers to break it up, though, given the commanders were all present. When they didn’t, Saliss turned.
“Huh. Look at those poor sods.”
He hadn’t really been part of the conversation, but the adventurers at his table had been swapping tales, mostly of Liscor. Keldrass half-rose and grimaced.
“Which company is that? It can’t be Pallass; seems like Zeres is kicking the tar out of some poor bastards. Why isn’t anyone coming to help?”
It looked like a massacre; Zeres’ [Soldiers] were punching and brawling at one table with less than four dozen [Soldiers]. Bevussa stood up as Mivifa grimaced.
“This is so unprofessional. It better not be Oteslia—”
The Garuda fluttered up a bit.
“Nope. Looks like…Manus. Ooh! Some poor [Captain] is going up against a lot of Zeres’ [Marines]. Hey, I think I recognize him. Wasn’t that the officer who was there when we flew in?”
Issa and Kin turned as Saliss’ fork halted, stabbing at his salad. He slowly turned as Mivifa stood up. Feathi wasn’t here; she hated this many people, and the Oldblood Drake murmured.
“It is. Captain Lyssander, I think? What did he do to earn their wrath? Where’s his people? I can see Manus’ army right there.”
Captain Yorm had also heard, and the Gnoll traded one long gaze with Saliss as Keldrass murmured.
“Lyssander. Lyssander…the name rings a bell. I didn’t hear good things about him? If no one’s coming to help his company out, maybe they deserve it. Manus aren’t cowards like Fissival. They’d throw down even if they were all outnumbered.”
“He wouldn’t have started it.”
Captain Yorm’s voice was low, and he hesitated as he turned towards the commanders’ table. Saliss? Saliss murmured.
“Nope. They’re not breaking it up. Someone’s teaching him a lesson. Might be Femar. Might be Rigrel.”
Everyone turned to regard him. But Saliss wasn’t gazing at Lyssander. He didn’t have to look. There was no shouting or the clash of metal, so the kid hadn’t drawn his sword.
He didn’t have a chance without a blade, and drawing one would get him court-martialed. That conversation about strength beating skill came to Saliss’ mind. Mivifa turned to Yorm.
“Why is General Rigrel upset with his own officer?”
Yorm hesitated and coughed into a fist.
“I cannot give you a definitive answer, Adventurer Mivifa. But from my observations, I might guess…”
Saliss was sick of the explanations and dancing around the words. He stared into his mug and didn’t see Onieva’s mismatched gaze. Just a flurry of bodies and maybe a grey-scaled Drake losing a fistfight behind him. He spoke loudly.
“He’s a Turnscale. Or they think he is. That’s why they’re beating the pulp out of him.”
Everyone stopped talking and turned to him. The Wings of Pallass glanced at each other, and Bevussa shook her head. The Flamewardens pulled faces, and Keldrass sat back down.
“Ah—damn. What, did he do something?”
“Nope. Just speaks too loudly and says the wrong things. I don’t even think he really knows what it means or that he was doing it. Poor kid. I had a word with him earlier, but word’s already spread.”
Saliss was staring across the mess hall, not looking at anyone. Mivifa fanned her wings.
“That’s not acceptable. His entire command is getting punched out. Where’s General Narrina? I’m going to stop this.”
She flew upwards, and Saliss called to her.
“You’re never going to get Femar to back down!”
He explained to Yorm, and the other Gold-rank adventurers.
“He’s stubborn as a brick wall. Even if Mivifa got it called up, they’ll just find Lyssander and his group tonight. Zeres doesn’t know when to quit.”
“They’re getting hammered. That’s not just a brawl, it’s a beatdown.”
Bevussa spoke softly. Keldrass half-rose again.
“They’re going to get more than just sent to the [Healer]’s for a night. Someone should put a stop to it. Captain Yorm, what sort of fellow is that Captain Lyssander?”
The Gnoll was hesitating.
“He seemed quite straightforwards and upstanding to me. Capable—”
“What if we went in there and pulled them apart?”
Keldrass floated the idea, and one of his teammates muttered as she craned her neck.
“Good way to get our faces mushed in, Captain. You might have the Heartflame Breastplate on, but there’s more Zeresian [Sailors] here tonight than the rest of us combined!”
So, the Drake wavered, and then stood in that half-crouch of indecision, not quite rising from his chair. Bevussa was staring after Mivifa, and Captain Yorm kept peering at Saliss.
“Adventurer Saliss?”
“Yorm. You say my name like you want something.”
Saliss was in a kind of dreamy state where time was too fast and too slow. He knew it; the moments when a decision had to be made, and one could be made if you just hesitated too long. But he never turned around. Yorm licked his lips.
“It’s an—unpleasant brawl, Adventurer Saliss. I’m sure you’ve seen them. I would have thought with your opinions on your cousin…”
Ah, so he knew about Onieva and Saliss’ statements about her. The [Captain] peeked at his squad, who were all carefully eying him, also not quite volunteering to get that badly hurt. But Saliss? Saliss was just doing the same thing as General Rigrel.
He was watching Deyssdra.
Across the mess tent, the [Magician]’s act was faltering. He’d done the old card-throwing routine, and he had been juggling fourteen objects of varying sizes; light work, really. Saliss knew he could do twenty. But the Gnoll nearly fumbled a sword as he flipped it up. He was rattled. He was off his game.
He knew. And he called out.
“Alright, alright, ladies and gentleman, back to your seats, please! For my next trick, I’ll conjure a—-a Dragon out of light!”
His voice was booming. He was trying to get everyone’s attention, trying to attract every eye and stop the fight that way. But it wasn’t going to work. Zeres was like a shark; much like Femar, they’d scented blood in the water, and a ring was forming, and they were cheering on the fighting.
Here was the million-coin question: was Deyssdra going to do anything? Saliss just bet that he knew who Lyssander was, or at least, what was going on. You had a sixth sense for this kind of thing, and in Deyssdra’s case, he had a literal sense-Skill that let him pick out fellow Turnscales. That’s where a lot of his assistants came from. Like the nervous Drake wearing facepaint, watching from the side of the stage as she juggled, eyes wide.
For one second, Deyssdra met Saliss’ gaze across the hall, and when they locked eyes, Saliss knew.
Of course Deyssdra wasn’t going to do anything. He never would. He was too afraid. Too worried he’d compromise everything by pushing things too far. But then, Saliss supposed, who could do something?
Mirn? If the [Protector] dared, it would have been the last moment he served in the army if he hadn’t already quit. Turnscales worked in the shadows. When the crowd was gathered and everything was taut to the point of breaking, sometimes you had to watch or hope they just ran.
“Right?”
The other adventurers and soldiers glanced at Saliss, but he wasn’t speaking to them or Deyssdra. He was looking at his reflection in his mug. The Drake took a drink, then pushed the glass back.
He stretched, lazily. On the stage, there was a crash—Deyssdra had dropped a huge weight and broken the stage.
“Hey, Captain Keldrass. I don’t normally do the advice-thing. It’s more like tips with me. It’s pretentious to do advice, but here I go. The Flamewardens deserve to be a Named-ranked team.”
The surprised Drake turned from the fight. Bevussa blinked and looked away from Mivifa, who was arguing with Shark Captain Femar.
“Thank you, Saliss?”
Keldrass began, but Saliss was still staring at the mug, turning it right and left. Looking for that beautiful face, his conscience to reprimand him.
But he couldn’t find her. The [Alchemist] was smiling faintly. He didn’t look at the Oldblood Drake, but his voice rose.
“You’ve got the firepower and levels. But there’s a rule that comes with the territory. You’d better remember it too, Captain Yorm. The rule is that you don’t ever look around like that again. When you’re the Named-rank team or a Named-rank adventurer, you don’t get to do that. There’s plenty of room for cowards even among Named-rank adventurers. But not hesitation. Pretentious advice number two?”
He stepped away from the table, then turned around. Saliss focused on the melee, and he saw a grey-scaled Drake swinging wildly like he was drunk. Staggering. Blood. A lot of downed [Soldiers] wearing Manus’ colors. Saliss grinned with all his teeth.
“Counting the odds is how you can make a Named-rank team. Never a Named-rank adventurer. You have to forget common sense. It gets easier. Like…this.”
He strode forwards, and Captain Yorm rose from his seat.
“Adventurer Saliss—”
He hesitated and missed grabbing Saliss’ tail. Then the Drake was hopping over the tops of tables, making [Soldiers] recoil. Keldrass rose, and one of the Flamewardens looked at the others.
“He’s not going to…?”
Then they were all standing, including Bevussa’s team. But the Garuda remained seated for just one second. She was studying the glass tankard that Saliss had been drinking from. It must have been a trick of light. But she swore she’d seen a pale blue eye winking from the glass. Then she turned in her seat.
 
——
 
“This isn’t your army, and you’re not an officer, Adventurer Mivifa!”
Shark Captain Femar was shouting at Mivifa as the sounds of the fighting and cheering and shouting in the mess tent rose. Green General Narrina was arguing with General Rigrel, and he was hesitating. Edellein was also wondering if he should let things burn out or try to contain what might turn into a full brawl.
“Shark Captain, you are an idiot! This is not how you address discipline in any army!”
He turned red and roared back.
“Maybe not your army! But Zeres has standards! That [Captain] has it coming! You only get one chance to make something of yourself, and that freak needs fixing.”
Mivifa drew a breath as her eyes flashed, and Wall Lady Navine pushed herself up abruptly. Navine opened her mouth to shout, and a naked orange Drake leapt past their table. Mivifa turned along with Navine as Edellein saw Saliss leap gracefully over the heads of the [Soldiers]. Like a strange nude swan.
He landed lightly, and Edellein rose in sudden alarm.
“Saliss? Was that Saliss? Where’s Captain Yorm? Why didn’t he—? Esor?”
This might be a bad thing, right? He turned to search for the Garuda [Strategist]. Esor wasn’t at the high table. But he always had an opinion. He saw the Garuda standing to the side. Esor blinked as Edellein pointed.
“Do something.”
“Do what?”
“Stop him!”
Esor peered at Edellein, and then he counted the five commanders. His eyes flicked to the [Soldiers] around them, their bodyguards, and he eyed Mivifa. Then he leaned over to Edellein.
“…How?”
 
——
 
Captain Lyssander wasn’t on his feet because he was that full of fight, but more that his opponent wasn’t letting him drop. And he had a sense that the fight might not end even if he passed out. Zeres’ [Nautical Captain] was a veteran of the seas, as muscular and scarred as any [Captain] who’d served decades fighting [Pirates], Drowned Folk, and everyone else on land and deck.
The Gnoll dodged a punch Lyssander threw and countered. Lyssander would have gone under, but a Skill was anchoring him to the ground. Which meant he couldn’t step back, and when he ate a punch, it was like being hit against a wall.
His bloody gaze saw a fist rise as the Zeresian [Soldier] raised it, and Lyssander willed his legs to move. Duck. Duck or you’ll—
The Gnoll stopped and stared down at his stomach. Lyssander flinched, then saw something odd. A pair of slim orange arms? They were encircling the Gnoll’s stomach in a hug, over the painted abdominals of metal.
“Who the hell—? Let go of me!”
The Zeresian [Captain] snapped and swung around. He gazed down as a grinning Drake poked his head out of the small of his back. Saliss was so much smaller that he looked like a child compared to the Gnoll. He winked, not at the Gnoll, but at Lyssander.
“Hey, kid. You should have drawn your sword.”
“Alchemist?”
Lyssander wasn’t sure if he was having a dream because he’d been punched out. He wobbled and then saw Saliss’ eyes look him up and down. Lyssander was afraid his jaw was broken; he knew he’d broken a rib or two. But the Drake’s gaze seemed too—upset for that.
Saliss of Lights never lost his cool. Everyone said that. The only time he didn’t smile was when he went to war. All the veterans said to run if you saw that.
The Gnoll [Captain] swung around, trying to get Saliss off him. But the Drake just rotated with him, hugging harder. He spoke, again, not to the [Captain].
“You suck, Lyssander. Your fighting ability, nothing else. If you can only use your sword—draw your sword no matter what. But even if you have to use your fists, you win. Even if it’s an army. Armies are easy. As long as they’re not mindless Golems and they have morale, you just have to break it. You just have to try harder than they do. That’s how Galas develops.”
He was grinning. Or baring his teeth. And Lyssander felt like the advice he was speaking was…real. It sounded casual, but something in him said: listen. Remember that.
“Let—go! Someone get this idiot off me!”
The [Captain] was panting, calling at his buddies, and one of them tried to yank Saliss off.
“Adventurer, Shark Captain Femar’s orders—”
He tried to drag Saliss away, but the Drake was glued to the Gnoll. And something was wrong. Lyssander, wobbling dizzily, thought it was his imagination, but then he saw the metal armor crumpling inwards.
The [Captain] turned pale and gasped as Saliss’ arms constricted, folding in the metal as if it were cloth. The [Alchemist]’s yellow eyes were beginning to glow. Then his knees flexed. What he did, Lyssander couldn’t quite tell.
It was like he did a backflip, knees bending, springing up. But somehow—the far-larger Gnoll [Captain] came with him. It seemed, to those further away, like the [Gnoll] suddenly did an insane backflip—until an orange figure detached from him.
The Zeresian [Captain] hit a wall of his fellow [Soldiers] with a crash of metal and shouts of pain. They collapsed, stunned, and Saliss gazed around. The brawl had already broken several chairs and the long tables; the Drake found a leg of a table and flipped it around so he was holding the broken end. He winked at Lyssander as the [Captain] sat down.
“Then you do something like this, but everyone has their own style. Just so you know, I’m holding back. I’m not even using my aura.”
“Adventurer, what are you doing?”
Another [Captain] assigned by Femar to the fight came roaring at Saliss. His fists were balled up, and he took a swing as he charged at Saliss. The Drake ducked his punch. Then he rotated around in the air. It looked like a spinning top; the first blow hit the Drake’s chin in an uppercut from below. Then Saliss twirled as the Drake reeled.
“Y—”
The second blow from the table leg hit the Drake straight in the face. He went over without a word.
That was a [Captain]. He had to be at least Level 20—if he was a veteran, what level was he? The [Marines] had seen the entire thing, of course. They saw their [Captain] go down, then shouted.
“Get him!”
A roar of rage filled the air, and the wave of Zeres’ [Soldiers] poured forwards towards the Named-rank adventurer. There they made their mistake. Lyssander saw it as he sagged against a broken table. He’d seen Saliss’ eyes.
The [Alchemist] was angry. Lyssander and his company were one thing. But the thundering charge of Zeres’ wave of flesh and blood—the Drake lifted the chair leg.
“Right. Sword dances.”
He whirled the table leg up, holding one claw forwards, pointing the ‘sword’ he was holding ahead. Then he stepped forwards, pivoting—stabbing, as if he were holding a short spear.
Lyssander lost count of how many stabs in the first blur of movement. Saliss switched to a two-handed grip and swung the wooden club in an arc across the bodies in front of him. Then reversed it, swinging another crescent blow. Then another, as if he were tracing a sphere around him, an area he controlled.
That there were bodies, flesh and blood and armor in the way of his club, didn’t seem to matter. The Drake pivoted and kicked as his sword struck in the opposite direction.
Lyssander saw the Drowned Man he’d hit strike a table twenty feet away. That was after the blur of blows collapsed the first wave of Zeresian [Marines]. They slammed into each other, the back ranks shouting in confusion; their buddies in the front had just…fallen? There was a squad pushing forwards with the dizzy Gnoll that Saliss had thrown.
“Wait. Back—”
Then an officer in front of them absorbed something. A stab? Even without damage, the impact still tossed the entire squad off their feet and onto their backs. One of the [Marines] rolled up, reaching for a sword.
“What the hell is—”
A foot kicked her head, and it snapped into the floor of the tent; she lay still.
“Mewi!”
Another [Soldier] bellowed, then Saliss landed on him and axe-kicked the [Soldier] on the shoulder. He screamed and clutched at his arm as he went down.
“Adventurer, stop, or we’ll draw—”
The [Captain] who’d started the brawl was shouting. He tried to grab the blurring orange Drake, and then Saliss was holding his arm. He heard a voice hissing in his ear, and his stomach lurched.
“I’m not even using potions.”
Then the entire world rotated. The Gnoll was shouting in horror as it spun a dozen times in a second, everything flashing around in a blur—the last thing he saw was Captain Femar’s wide eyes before he hit the head table.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights guessed he’d taken out sixty [Marines] before they realized who they were facing. Then the officers were shouting.
“Get back! Back—”
Wise, but it was too late. He ran at a [Major] who was drawing a weapon. Or trying to; he had a trident spear. What a silly weapon.
The Drake ripped it clear, and it glowed as he activated a Skill. Saliss was faster. He landed on the Drake and remembered how you did it.
Swing a sword like—this! Are you proud, Old Man?
“[Helmsplitter Strike].”
He pulled the blow so he didn’t see the Drake’s head explode. The [Major] dropped, and Saliss turned. Six [Marines] leapt on him. Literally leapt, trying to get him on the ground. Smart—his foot kicked one in the chest, and he clipped another across the head, and they were down when the other four hit him.
“Get him, get—”
One of them was grabbing for the nude Drake, but he was so agile. And then the [Marine] felt an arm snake its away around his neck and began to scream.
“Help! Help! Get him off—”
The pile of four [Soldiers] was a tangle of limbs as more of Zeres’ [Marines] hesitated. Then a yellow Drake pulled himself up as the four [Soldiers] collapsed. Saliss turned with a grin. He had his club.
“Catch.”
He threw it into another officer’s chest. The Drake hit his [Soldiers], chestplate dented inwards. Before he’d landed, Saliss was there, retrieving his club. Then Saliss was swinging through the [Soldiers] trying to get up. Alas, it didn’t stay easy forever.
Without potions, he could only attack as fast as his arms could swing, and once they realized he was hitting them, they used their Skills.
“[Guards Up]! Surround—”
Saliss whipped the club across one of the officers’ helmets so fast it rang, but this time, the Drowned Woman didn’t drop. Someone tried to seize him from behind, and Saliss grabbed the arm instead. Forced it free as the [Marine]’s eyes went round and panicky. A slim Drake should not overpower a [Marine] who was bulging with muscles.
Named-rank. Saliss hit him twice in the face with the butt of the chair leg before someone grabbed at him from the other side. Now they were in a melee, and he was punching and striking in every direction.
Right, this is where it hurts. 
Them.
He exploded out of the pile of [Marines], leaping off their bodies. He knew better than to let them immobilize him.
Drop-kick—you.
This officer caught the kick and rocked. They were fast enough to dodge two punches, and Saliss’ arm jarred as he swung the chair leg against their sword.
Probably over Level 40. The Drake seemed alarmed, but he stabbed fast. Saliss leaned under the blow. The Drake made a mistake: he was too worried about using a Skill and wounding Saliss mortally that he didn’t back up fast enough.
Saliss got a piece of him; his non-dominant arm. He snapped it the wrong way before the officer clubbed him, and Saliss leapt back out of a slash. The arm didn’t break, though by the cursing, the officer hadn’t enjoyed it moving nearly a hundred and eighty degrees the wrong way.
Definitely over Level 40. Galas muscle and reinforced bone. Saliss ducked a far more dangerous stab. Kicked the knee. Danced back. Threw the table leg. It was chopped in half.
Tackled the officer hard enough to crunch the steel armor. He rose, panting, a cut on his cheek and a faint stinging on his stomach from the punch.
“Come on, Zeres. Let’s dance.”
They were coming at him now. He wasn’t going to win against the entire force. Not if he couldn’t melt them. Saliss leapt at a pair of officers, going for the higher-level one. The other managed to put an arm around Saliss’ neck. He was about to twist to avoid getting pinned when the arm let go.
“[Impact Kick]! Keldrass, where the hell are you? Keldrass, get over here!”
That voice. Saliss stopped counter-punching the first officer in the face and spun as his opponent dropped. He saw a real idiot throwing punches at the surprised [Marines] in front of him.
Captain Bevussa. The Garuda woman was brawling like the former [Soldier] she was, throwing right hooks and dodging back, and she was an idiot. She was a Garuda, she shouldn’t be fighting like—
Saliss was distracted and ate a punch to the back of the head. He let the impact carry him forwards and punched someone in front of him off their feet before swinging around. Bevussa cursed as a chair hit her arm.
“Kin, Issa! Where are—”
Both she and Saliss saw a table coming their way and ducked. But it wasn’t being thrown; a really angry [Marine] was lifting it up with some kind of Skill, and he began to bring it down like a hammer as Saliss grabbed Bevussa to throw her to the side.
The falling table halted as Captain Yorm put a hand on the end of it. He commented to the surprised [Marine].
“Lever physics.”
Then he hit the other Gnoll in the solar plexus, and the white-faced [Marine] dropped. Saliss turned and saw another huge Drake pick up a [Marine] and toss him like a toy. Then he heard someone shouting.
“Flamewardens, get them!”
Reinforcements? Saliss hadn’t expected them, but they were all here. The Wings of Pallass, Kin and Issa hurling mugs and tables down into the melee, the Flamewardens, bunched up and fighting like a squad—and Captain Yorm’s squad.
Only a handful compared to hundreds of angry [Marines] and more coming from outside, but when they saw Yorm get dogpiled by a bunch of [Sailors], that was enough.
Major Zifren leapt up from his table.
“They got Yorm! With me!”
He charged into the fight and tackled a [Mariner Lieutenant], and then it was a full brawl. Anyone who didn’t want a piece of it had to fight to get out of the tent, but more than one Walled City’s [Soldiers] decided it was a good day to hit someone. Then they ran into Saliss of Lights and reconsidered.
 
——
 
“How the hell is he doing that?”
Possibly, Shark Captain Femar had forgotten he himself had seen Saliss fighting outside of Oteslia. Or maybe he’d assumed the Drake had used potions then. Even the other [Generals] were staring. Even Edellein, who knew Saliss’ record, had forgotten the Drake could use a sword better than most of his people.
But they also just forgot that Saliss was a Named-rank adventurer. Did that mean nothing? He was over Level 50. Yet Mivifa, watching from the sidelines, thought…
He’s levelled again. He really has. That monster.
Even for them, he was one of the best. She could see his new levels, or so it felt. Or maybe it was his fighting edge that hadn’t dulled. He was piling up downed [Marines] in neat rows, since a pile might actually suffocate the ones at the bottom. The only people she’d seen even touch him were the highest-level officers, and the Drake went after them before they could muster a squad to surround him.
Of course, all the other [Generals] were trying to restore order. Except maybe Wall Lady Navine; she was just watching Saliss open-mouthed. It was Shark Captain Femar who grabbed his Relic-class spear.
“I’m stopping him! Out of the way!”
He would have charged straight at Saliss except for the shortsword that would have decapitated him if he took another step. Femar froze as Mivifa smiled at him.
“Shark Captain, the last thing we need is for this to go to blood. I insist you lower your weapon.”
“Drop your blade!”
He roared at her, but she had her sword at his throat. Green General Narrina barked.
“Femar, drop your spear! Adventurer Mivifa, that is the Shark Captain of Zeres!”
She was mostly just shouting it for effect. Femar lowered his spear and then snapped.
“Well, your sword?”
“Drop the spear.”
When he did, cursing, she kicked it at General Edellein, who had the sense to keep it away from Femar. Then she sheathed her sword and bowed to him. Femar made a fist as he growled—then felt a wetness on his shoulder. He turned and came nose-to-nose with Feathi.
The Pegasus intimated, mostly by eye-contact and a lot of teeth, that if Femar wanted to throw down with both her and Mivifa, he could. The Shark Captain hesitated.
“But someone has to end this fighting!”
He roared, and on that they could all agree. But who—? Mivifa spun as there was the loudest crash yet, then relaxed.
“Ah, of course.”
She smiled a second too early. Then Deyssdra the Spectacular shouted.
“Saliss, enough!”
He threw two handfuls of razor-edged cards at Saliss, and the [Alchemist] spun.
 
——
 
When it came to throwing expertise, Deyssdra was the only adventurer on Izril that made Saliss sweat. The razor-edged cards were metal too. Saliss, swearing, caught the shower with the only thing that would stop it: a dozen glowing vials hit the cards, and they lodged in the glass or showered to the ground.
“In the name of Salazsar, I will stop you now!”
The [Magician] threw another shower of cards, and Saliss caught them this time, flicking them back at the [Magician] one after another. Only, he added a trick: each one was now on fire. The [Magician] swung his cape around, and the projectiles vanished into it.
The sudden showdown between the two Named-ranks caused a lull in the fighting; even the angry [Soldiers] were prescient enough to realize they didn’t want to get in the way of so many edged weapons. Deyssdra paused, then flipped something up.
“Catch.”
He hurled a literal ball and chain at Saliss, and the spiked ball smashed through a table as Saliss leapt the first one. He caught the second as it hit his stomach, swirled around, and tossed it back.
“Right back at you, Deyss! And have this for good measure!”
Saliss hurled three chairs after the ball and chain at such speed that they seemed to almost appear in the [Magician]’s hands. The Gnoll’s teeth were bared as he stacked them up—then Saliss uncorked a vial.
“Nice. Now show me a Lightning Thief. Here’s mud in your eye.”
He threw a ball of flames across the room, and everyone dove out of the way as Deyss’ eyes widened. How he caught it, no one could see, but the Gnoll was juggling a hand-sized orb of fire from one paw to another.
“Two can play at that game.”
He pulled a second glowing ball of crackling lightning from a belt pouch and hurled the bolt of lightning at Saliss. The Drake’s thrown glass jar contained the lightning a foot from his face, and the ball of flames landed in another jar. Saliss juggled the two jars, swearing, and then added a third to the mix. This one was glowing with what looked like a firestorm of purple and yellow.
The [Magician] caught the firestorm bottle with both paws in a flying leap as it shot towards him. He fielded the other two jars, barely, and then reached for his belt pouch.
“If that’s how it’s going to be…”
The air was crackling with force, and Saliss was pulling vials out of his bag of holding with a terrifying grin when Wall Lady Navine screamed.
“Enough!”
Both Saliss and Deyss hesitated, on the verge of throwing, and the Wall Lady shouted.
“Two Named-ranks will not fight! I will not have casualties between Walled Cities on the first days of entering the New Lands! Adventurer Deyssdra, Adventurer Saliss, stand down! That is an order!”
The two Named-ranks paused as everyone, fighting [Soldiers], adventurers, all held their breaths. Everyone had the same thought.
If those two actually start trying to kill each other, am I in the blast radius?
After a long, long second, Saliss put away his vials and held up his hands. He grinned, blood trickling from one corner of his mouth.
“Alright, I guess the New Lands doesn’t need a new crater in it. What about you, Deyss?”
“Perish the thought.”
The Gnoll chucked the lightning bottle back at Saliss and swept his cloak around.
“What a mess. Assistant! Show’s over.”
A huge sigh of relief filled the room, and only then did the brawlers hear the officers shouting.
“Blades down! Down, you idiots! Separate and back it off! No more fights or I’ll have the lot of you in the stockades!”
“That’s right, hands down or I’ll keelhaul the lot of ya!”
Wounded men and women separated, swearing or searching for their friends. Only then did Saliss walk over and pick someone up.
“There you are, kid. Smarter than you look.”
Lyssander and his company hadn’t leapt back in the fighting once Saliss had rescued them, but rather cunningly, played dead. Then again, Captain Lyssander and his crew looked pretty beat up. But he stared at Saliss as the Named-rank offered him a hand.
“Let’s see. You’re going to need a bone-fixing tonic here, here, and, eh, just drink this.”
He flipped a vial onto Lyssander’s chest and then began to triage the most badly-hurt members of his company. Lyssander just stared at Saliss’ back until the [Alchemist] turned.
Saliss pretended he didn’t see Lyssander wiping at his eyes. The Drake turned towards a broken mug.
“Kids these days.”
There was no Onieva gazing back at him. But that was alright. She was wearing a bloody, but relieved smile. Even if there were consequences.
 
——
 
Saliss was still braced for the consequences the next day when he went to check on Captain Lyssander. He kept poking Esor about it.
“So what is it? Public lashing? Beaten with sticks? Writing ‘I’m sorry I’m a disgrace to Pallass’ a hundred times on a blackboard?”
The [Strategist] hissed back at Saliss as they marched into Manus’ camp.
“I told you, there aren’t any! And a bit of gratitude wouldn’t go amiss, Saliss!”
The Drake didn’t buy it.
“Don’t give me that. I put half the [Marines] in that tent into the [Healers]’ care.”
“Yes, and I told General Edellein that given your…public statements on your cousin, it was the most expected thing to happen. Besides which, I don’t think he minds reminding the other Walled Cities who won that encounter.”
Saliss blinked. No, but there were always consequences. Especially for standing up for Turnscales.
“Edellein’s not that forgiving. He’ll make an example. Who is it?”
Esor rubbed at his forehead.
“Technically, I believe he would be inclined to censure Captain Yorm for his failures, and General Rigrel would certainly love to blame Captain Lyssander for this mess.”
“Aha!”
“—But that isn’t going to happen. You may thank Adventurer Mivifa and Green General Narrina for putting pressure on the two of them, but mostly, it’s Wall Lady Navine’s initiative that will complicate any vengeful opinions from the two of them.”
“Wall Lady who now? Salazsar’s commander? Why?”
Esor wore a slightly pleased smile.
“She suggested it, quite stridently. In light of the clear hostilities between our armies, her proposal was to do as they do in the Blighted Kingdom.”
“War crimes?”
Esor scowled.
“Form a joint army! She’s agreed to take charge of Commander Lyssander’s forces and Captain Yorm’s squad, and we’re forming special task forces who will pursue more far-flung objectives together. It’s the beginning of a true alliance. Very well done by her.”
It was smart. And Saliss didn’t believe it.
She wants Lyssander’s company? After he got attacked for being a Turnscale? There’s no way—
The vaguest hint of suspicion crossed his mind, and he shut up as Esor glared at him.
“You need to produce results, Saliss, and stay away from the camp. I’m putting you on scouting duty with the other adventuring teams. Tell me what you need, and I’ll get it. But consider yourself moving up to the forward bases as soon as you finish here.”
Saliss said nothing. For once, he held his tongue until Esor flew off, and then he turned into Manus’ camp. A lot of [Soldiers] eyed him, but Saliss just waved at them and shooed them like they were chickens until he got to a section of camp with a lot of [Soldiers] laying abed.
They’d heal fast enough with bone growth tonics. Healing potions might be out, but he had enough supplies for that. It didn’t surprise Saliss either when he saw two adventurers hanging out, talking quietly.
Mivifa and Deyssdra glanced up when they saw him, and she waved.
“Saliss, you’re annoyingly healthy. Everyone else is limping around—you didn’t even need a healing potion, did you?”
“For a little brawl with Zeres? Psh. Deyss, what’s up?”
Saliss actually managed a smile for the Gnoll [Magician]; Deyss seemed slightly stressed, but he nodded at Saliss.
“I, ah, wanted a word. Mivifa, would you mind…?”
“Not at all. I need to start flying soon anyways. Saliss—”
Mivifa tilted her head and stared at the sky as he gazed at her. She shrugged.
“Good job. You’re looking more cheerful. Try not to break any more heads while I’m gone.”
Then she leapt into the skies. Up, up, and away…there was something about how she flew that made Saliss and Deyss watch her for a while.
“Damn, I hate being around her. She makes us look bad.”
Saliss commented, and Deyss sniffed.
“She makes everyone look bad. Name me a Named-rank who’s more popular than her.”
“Lehra?”
“Hah. Lehra’s only popular before you meet her. She doesn’t inspire.”
They fell awkwardly silent, and Deyss fiddled with his top hat again. He smoothed his stupid mustache.
“I think you’d better handle it. I was going to, but he’ll listen to you.”
“Oh, you trust me now?”
The Gnoll pulled a face.
“I never stopped trusting—Mirn would do it better. But he’s not here, and you…I’m surprised they haven’t strung us all up.”
Saliss smiled crookedly and nodded.
“Me too. But you covered the ending well. What were you reaching for?”
“A magical ball of yarn. What was in the firestorm jar?”
“Oh, that’s just a fancy light effect. It makes this high-pitched humming sound that sounds like [Dangersense].”
The two chuckled about that. Deyss rubbed at his head again, then shot Saliss a glance.
“Navine is…sympathetic. I don’t want to say an ally. But I had this sense—”
“You and your senses. Really? Her?”
Saliss was surprised, but not. When Esor had said the Wall Lady had pulled for them…how many of them were there in this army? The [Magician] shrugged.
“She couldn’t have done it alone. That Captain Yorm fellow spoke up for you, I heard.”
“Well, he’s Grimalkin’s student. Principled. It’s not me, especially.”
“Oh, of course. And Keldrass’ Flamewardens? He has a lot of weight, and he used it.”
Deyss gave Saliss a meaningful glance at the Drake kicked at his leg rather than reply.
“I don’t have time for you, Deyss. Move it. I’ve got a stupid damn conversation to have…you’re going to be listening in, aren’t you?”
The Named-rank Gnoll huffily drew himself up.
“Just so you don’t mess it up. And…just so you know, the kids are doing splendidly. There’s a fine city where everyone is more relaxed than Salazsar. And they put the rest down to them being [Apprentice Magicians].”
Saliss paused by the tent flap.
“Good. I’ve got a weirdo kid myself. Highly annoying. You’ll have to meet her. Human.”
Deyss’ ears perked up.
“Would this be one of the mysterious Humans I’m supposed to look out for, even in the New Lands?”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Deyss, you are so far behind…talk to me later. Oh, and one more thing!”
He spun around and poked the Gnoll in the chest.
“I’ve been in a relationship for months now. Steady. And supportive.”
Deyss slowed.
“Wait, you told—someone from the community?”
“Nope.”
“And they know…? Months, you said?”
The Gnoll seemed envious as Saliss brushed his neck spines.
“That’s right.”
“I hate you.”
“Mwah.”
Saliss blew a kiss at Deyss, and the Gnoll caught it and threw it over his shoulder. That scored the most fur off of him yet, and Saliss whirled with a huge smile as Deyss glowered. He wasn’t going to let that drop, but that was fine. Gloating was something Saliss could do all day.
“Now, if you’ll excuse me Deyss—”
When he pushed open the tent flaps, there was a rustle of movement, and Captain Lyssander tried to appear like he’d just been reaching for a cup of water. He was bandaged up, but looked fairly chipper.
And nervous. Saliss grinned at him.
“Hey, how’s the ribs? That one? That one? Ooh, that one’s not great still.”
He prodded Lyss in the chest in several spots, and the Drake winced. But Saliss sat him up; he could move if not flex hard after a night with the tonic in him.
“Alchemist, I have to thank you again. My entire company does, actually. We’d love to buy you a drink and—”
“Yes, yes. You’re all fans of mine. What a terrible delusion. I hope you wake up from it. Come on, let’s go for a walk. I hear you’re working for Salazsar now. Hope you like mining.”
Saliss chivvied Lyssander up from his bed and actually helped him out of the tent. He saw Deyss glowering at him and offered the Gnoll a cheerful middle finger. Then he and Lyssander walked out of the camp and stood where they could watch the forward elements of the Walled Cities marching into the New Lands.
It was all ahead of them. They’d actually done very little exploring. Just a brawl and a lot of politicking. Saliss wanted to get to the actual adventuring. He was a Named-rank, after all. It was in his blood.
Actually, he realized, he wanted to get out there. He wanted to find that Fatguin and see the mysterious “Dragon” and find the Crossroads of Izril. Sure, the Horns had found it ‘first’, but they hadn’t uncovered its secrets.
He was in a good mood—and he was also nervous. Scared. He took a few deep breaths, wondering if Lyss could tell his heart was beating.
Nerves, from him? But this was so hard. Maybe Deyss should do it after all. And yet, when he turned to Lyssander and saw the Drake eying [Soldiers] passing by, Saliss saw the [Captain] had a determined gleam in his eyes.
“Ah, there it is. The look of a real idiot.”
Lyss started and gave him a questioning gaze, and Saliss clarified.
“The look of a [Soldier]. You’re still in it, aren’t you? Despite getting beaten up and having your own [General] toss you to the sharks.”
The [Captain] shrugged.
“Everyone knows General Rigrel is senile and out-of-date. They only pulled him for this because he can socialize and dig fortresses. Once we’re past the border zone, he’ll stay behind. And if I quit, what would I do? Become a [Mercenary]? My company needs me.”
“Even if you’re an unliked Turnscale?”
The direct comment drew a gasp from a definitely-not-spying Gnoll behind them. Lyss’ face grew troubled. But then he nodded.
“I’m not wrong about thinking Manus needs an adaptive sword company. We’ve shown we can pull our weight. I’m not quitting, Adventurer Saliss. I can be a great officer. I know it.”
The [Alchemist] exhaled softly. He patted Lyss on the shoulder.
“Well, there’s no curing that. The military thing is often fatal, but who knows? You might survive. Do you think you’ll survive your fellow [Soldiers] giving your company shit?”
The young Drake hesitated.
“After last night? I think I’ll sit with Captain Yorm from now on. And…I think some of them thought better about making comments.”
In case Saliss of Lights takes offense and comes over to hit them? Perhaps it was a message. Perhaps it’d wear off. Perhaps it made Saliss even more unpopular than he was, but the end result didn’t seem so bad. Lyssander was gazing at the passing [Soldiers], and Saliss didn’t have anything else to ask, so he just peered at the marching group until he saw a tall Drake, probably one of the Rubirel Guard, only without his armor due to the mana drain. He nudged Lyssander.
“That one, there. Red scales, chin raised? Almost as tall as Yorm?”
“What about him?”
“There’s a handsome Drake.”
Captain Lyssander almost nodded before catching himself and gazing up hesitantly at Saliss. A question in his eyes. Saliss went on, casual.
“Of course, that’s more of an objective kind of thing based on Drake norms. It hits all sorts different. Mirn would say that the more handsome the Drake, the more he wants to see what they look like when they lose their cool. Mirn’s a friend of mine with terrible taste. Oh, that fellow has a great tail.”
“…He does indeed.”
The two eyed a passing Gnoll with a perfect stripe down his longer tail, and Saliss went on, never looking at Lyssander.
“The thing is, you can’t say that out loud. Female Drakes can say that, and male Drakes can say tons of stuff—if they were speaking about the ladies. You see? Those are the rules, only, no one ever wrote them down for you. But they’re important rules because everyone does it. You just can’t read them, can you?”
“…No, sir.”
Lyssander gazed down at his boots, and Saliss went on, voice cheerful and bright, like a sword blade he swung oh so carefully.
“There’s no voice in your head that says the right thing. The right thing to fit in, like ‘hey, look at the tits on that Garuda’!”
He shouted, and a passing Garuda turned and flipped him off. Then Saliss lowered his voice.
“That’s the way it works, and if you don’t want to be called a Turnscale, be kicked out of society, and worse, you’d better find that oh so important voice, Lyssander. Because it’s the only right and natural way to be.”
Saliss cleared his throat.
“Of course, the Selphids change who they are depending on their bodies, mostly, but they don’t count because the Body Snatchers of Baleros are just—different. Obviously. And the Stitch-folk of Chandrar can change anything they want. Except the quality of their cloth. But Chandrarians, am I right? And the House of Minos doesn’t really care, but they’re islanders. Same with the Drathians. And Dullahans have an agreement to let anything that happens under the armor stay under the armor—”
“They’re all different?”
Here, Saliss paused, because he couldn’t lie.
“…No. There are groups that are like Drakes or even worse. But that’s just an example. We’re not in Drath. We’re here, in Izril, and there are ways you should act if you don’t want to get hurt. If you don’t want people around you to get hurt.”
The younger Drake said nothing for a while.
“So I’m…a Turnscale, then? Because I—I think that other guys are sometimes attractive?”
He sounded lost, confused, and nervous, and Saliss bent down and fixed him with a huge smile and stare.
“Nope!”
Lyssander started. Saliss grinned at him.
“Do you think it’s that simple? Well, it is to people like General Rigrel and Femar. You don’t know what you are, Captain Lyssander. Neither do I, honestly. It could be you just admire the physical form. But what is true is that you just don’t fit quite right. And if you don’t fit, you must be wrong. That’s how it works. It’s not a…a precise system they’ve got here. All we Drakes have is a box. And if you don’t fit exactly in the box…”
“You’re a Turnscale?”
Saliss patted Lyss on the shoulders silently. The Drake [Captain] said nothing for a while, then spoke, hesitant.
“Alchemist, I know that it might be—be dangerous for you to tell me all this. And I appreciate the talk. But if I can be honest?”
He rubbed at a bruise on his cheeks.
“I think…I think I can try to be normal. Wouldn’t that solve everything? Now I know the problem—that’s the best thing to do, right?”
Ah, he said the same thing that Saliss had heard so many times, and he was relieved he knew the answer to this one. The Drake shrugged.
“That’s certainly an option, and frankly, you might be right! I won’t stop you. But remember what I said about you not knowing if you are a Turnscale or not? You have no idea what’s in here. Or out there.”
He prodded Lyssander gently on the shoulder, and the [Captain] bit his lip. Saliss went on gently.
“Now, if you’d like to turn around and go, you can. There’s a lot of suffering if you ask too many questions. But you may just find that if you ever felt…wrong, empty, or alone when everyone else says they’re full? There’s answers. There’s someone to talk to. There’s that feeling you’ve been chasing all your life. And it is not the answer you’ll find in any books in Manus. But it may be the lesson you wanted to find.”
He peered into Lyssander’s eyes, and the young Drake glanced away. He took a deep, shuddering breath.
“That’s funny. I thought I could march up to you and ask for lessons and it wouldn’t be terrifying since all you could say is ‘no’ or maybe prank me. But this is—frightening.”
Saliss threw an arm around Lyssander’s shoulder and hugged him gently, the way he wished someone had once done to him.
“Well, that’s because you’re just playing with a sword, kid. All you can do is cut yourself. Now, there’s a nosy Gnoll whom I think could answer more questions, but if you want to go, just remember it’s a secret. Out of respect, I think you’ll keep it. But the threat of me burning you with acid would probably help if you had doubts there.”
Captain Lyssander nodded and glanced over his shoulder. He hesitated, then turned to Saliss.
“I have—a few questions. Does being a Turnscale mean you really have—I mean, you’re sleeping with the same…?”
Saliss grinned.
“Not always. But sometimes.”
“But how would that—work?”
Then the [Alchemist] was laughing faintly. Trying not to embarrass the young [Captain] who had that look in his eyes that meant he’d probably never be tired of asking questions.
Poor kid. Saliss motioned for Deyss to come forwards, and he had a thought. He looked at Lyssander, red-cheeked and embarrassed, beaten up, and wondered…
Mrsha knew his name. What did she see? What would decades of surviving Manus do to this Drake? 
He knew what it had done to two other Drakes. Sserys and Zel…and Saliss wondered if he should tell Lyssander that story now or whether he should be eased into that painful truth that burned in the heart of the Walled Cities’ militaries and Turnscales alike. Pride and pain. Rejection and triumph.
“Can I ask a question, Captain Lyssander? You don’t have to answer—but I have awesome eyes.”
Saliss tapped one eye and winked at Lyssander.
“Normally, I can read people’s classes and Skills, but you’re warded. Probably a ring they issue to Manus’ [Captains]? What is your class?”
[Lieutenant of Perfection] Comois had beaten Lyssander, but only in duels. Saliss wondered if he could see that seed of greatness Mrsha had hinted at. But the young Drake just shrugged, embarrassed.
“Me, Alchemist? I don’t have a problem answering. I’m just a [Slash Captain]. Level 25. Nothing special.”
Saliss blinked, then blurted out—
“How the hell did you beat a Level 30+ [Lieutenant] like Comois at anything? Sorry, sorry, that’s rude.”
He saw Lyss grin, and then the Drake managed a wink of his own.
“Well, Alchemist…I’ve learned six sword-Skills. My entire company’s learned at least one. There’s nothing to level against doing guard duty in Rigrel’s fortress, so we train.”
The [Alchemist] blinked, and then he laughed again. There it was.
 
——
 
There were consequences for every action. Good and bad. That morning, as Saliss of Lights talked with Captain Lyss, another group was having a meeting, though far less pleasant.
Major Ultarwe was the Gnoll woman who had quarreled with Saliss about the Goblin King. She was also one of the most senior officers serving in Manus’ command—aside from [General] Rigrel himself.
She’d had a bad night. A long night having arguments with [Soldiers] to subordinates and being pushed towards an inevitable conclusion. One she’d made herself, really.
That was why two other [Majors], a [Captain], and eleven lower-level officers were meeting in the camp. There were a lot of eyes on them from the regular [Soldiers]. Ultarwe dragged her heels. She did not want to do what was coming next.
General Rigrel’s tent was in the center of the camp, and the old Gnoll was probably still asleep despite the troops moving. He had been a great leader once. He’d fought with distinction in both Antinium Wars, but the last one had already seen him among the oldest of Manus’ [Generals].
He’d taken his demotion to fortress-guard…poorly. Always wanted to get back out there on campaign, and Luciva had let him have his shot. But he was still—
There was a place for him. Just not here. Training young officers, maybe. Somewhere, but not in this army. Not now.
Not after the mess hall disaster. The moment he’d given the order to let Sharkcaptain Femar deal with one of Manus’ officers, even Lyss—he’d lost the trust of his troops. Zeres beating down one of their own?
Adventurer Saliss had probably done the best thing, getting involved. Because that night, there would have been a war once news of the fight got out. All of that was why Major Ultarwe was going to put her class on the line and march into that tent to have a conversation with General Rigrel.
Insubordination in the ranks was not a light matter. Depending on how this got back to High Command, it might be seen as mutiny, which it was not—this could break her entire career and every officer with her.
But it was going to break Manus’ forces if something wasn’t done. So, the [Major] straightened her back.
“Let me do the talking. Just stand there and don’t say a word, got it?”
Someone had to fall on their sword, and it might as well be her. She’d served under Rigrel the longest…she took a few breaths and then approached the tent.
“General Rigrel, sir? Permission to en—”
The tent flaps opened, and Ultarwe jumped backwards in surprise. She feared, for a moment, that Rigrel was up early and she’d have to ask him to step inside in front of the camp. But no, it wasn’t him.
A Garuda with green-blue feathers pushed out, General Rigrel’s low voice following him. Strategist Esor of Pallass had a clipboard in hand, and Ultarwe caught the last few words.
“—a bit longer.”
She stared at Esor, uncertain, and the [Strategist] smiled.
“Ah, Major. A word, if you please?”
The rest of the officers stood there, and Ultarwe cleared her throat.
“Strategist, I was actually hoping to speak to General Rigrel on a matter of importance—”
“I understand, Major. Just one word.”
He took her aside, and she felt…something in the air as they stepped to the side of Rigrel’s tent. Esor activated a privacy stone, then handed her a paper.
“As of this morning, General Rigrel has stepped down from his post. He will be heading back to Manus for his retirement shortly. A sudden fever, at his age—a replacement will be dispatched as fast as possible. Until then, you have been appointed acting commander of Manus’ forces. We’ll be liaisoning, given my role in Pallass’ command structure. A pleasure to work with you, [Major].”
He held out a paper covered in seals from Manus and then a clawed hand to shake. Ultarwe stood there, confused, until her training took over. She peered at Esor, then read the papers.
Luciva Skybreath’s own seal. She took Esor’s hand.
“You…just delivered the news to General Rigrel?”
“I just got the news, Major. And I was in position to relay this all to Dragonspeaker Luciva. I did serve with Grand Strategist Chaldion, after all. ”
Esor. Of course, she’d heard his name, but the Cyclops had been famous. He…
“I, ah, didn’t know the General had fallen ill.”
The [Major] did her best to fish, but she wasn’t good at this. Esor’s face was utterly blank as he smiled.
“These things take you fast. All things considered, I think it’s for the best. Don’t you?”
She did. Absolutely. A huge weight lifted from Ultarwe’s shoulders, and the churning fear in her stomach abated, but she wasn’t sure if…if this wasn’t like Femar leaning on Rigrel.
“So you’re in command of Manus?”
His claw tightened, and she was shocked by his strength as the [Strategist] looked her in the eyes.
“Manus is in command of Manus, Major. You are. I hope you don’t mistake my words. I’m no [General]. I know my role. I am merely the [Strategist]. A [Strategist] of the Walled Cities, not just Pallass. We are all on the same side here. Let’s act like it. No more pranks. No more infighting. I’ve had a word with Sharkcaptain Femar as well.”
—The ground stabilized. The shaky foundations that Ultarwe had been treading on became more solid. She nodded, and suddenly her mind was churning with all the problems—but Esor had a file he was taking out.
“You’ll need to restructure, but I imagine it won’t take much time. Let’s get everyone moving, General—if I can take your time and your command for an hour or two?”
“Absolutely, Strategist Esor. I am looking forward to working with you. And I apologize for any unprofessionalism from my side. I assure you, Manus will have its act together.”
The new Acting-General of Manus squared her shoulders, then stepped out of the privacy spell to begin barking orders. Behind her, Esor rolled up the Scroll of [Message] with a direct line to Dragonspeaker Luciva with a sigh. He turned his head as he flew up to survey the camps. Then he spoke to himself.
“We’re not incompetent yet, Grand Strategist. Just restructuring.”
 
——
 
Later that day, Saliss of Lights was packing for his expedition. He’d see Lyssander and Deyss again—Saliss could move fast, but he was going to do that adventure-thing. They’d be backup if he needed it, while working on bigger military projects.
However, he had a thought as he checked his bag of holding and considered the future. Old Deyss had promised to teach Lyssander, and Captain Yorm would be good instruction too, though he might kill Lyssander’s company with all his weight training.
But it seemed to Saliss that his grumpy and dispirited entry into the New Lands had turned into something positive. And he had his own debts to pay.
So, the Named-rank Adventurer stepped out of his tent and found Strategist Esor. He seemed busy organizing things, but he was always doing that. When the Garuda looked up expectantly at his desk where he was working, Saliss cleared his throat.
“Esor. I owe a certain Garuda a great deal. Therefore, I’d like to be assigned Captain Bevussa and her team. I could use someone who can keep up with me.”
The [Strategist] blinked, then began to scowl at Saliss before a thoughtful expression crossed his face.
“She knows the landscape. But are you sure? I could use good fliers like her.”
“Absolutely. She’s a rookie, but promising.”
And she had my back even after knowing Lyssander was a Turnscale. She was from the inn…Saliss threw a salute.
“Thank you, Strategist Esor, sir! Have the paperwork done in the hour! Bye!”
He ran out of the tent, laughing, before an ink pot sailed out after him. Then Saliss really was busy as Captain Bevussa flapped over, demanding to know if there was a mistake. He had to talk to her about tactics and draw a map of where he wanted to go and explain his process…
 
——
 
A busy day. Saliss was napping in a camp sixty miles from the main army’s location in the evening. Not far; he’d taken it easy and mostly jogged while talking to Bevussa’s team.
They were doing scout duty and getting firewood for the night’s camp. It was fun to have rookies do that. He’d have to figure out if he was giving them potions or better weapons and armor for if he wanted to rely on them, but that was a future-Saliss problem.
The Drake was just napping because he had been rather stressed of late. He dozed off, then woke up and noted that he hadn’t levelled up.
“Ah, well. It’s hard at my level.”
Being kids like Bevussa and Lyss was so nice. You scratched your butt, you levelled. Saliss was rolling around in his bedroll when his eyes opened, and he stared at the sky.
Something hit him. Slowly, ever-so-slowly, the Drake sat up and thunked his head a few times. Then found a rock and tapped it against his skull.
“No. They can’t be that stupid. We’re not that stupid. I’m…would Xif make that mistake?”
He thought back to the Alchecorps, who were still gamely identifying all of the New Lands. And the mysterious Super Monsters who had way too much magical power. And the lizards who just loved those beetles.
Yellow beetles with a 1.01 magirite rating. So, in short, barely more than 1% more magical than a regular beetle you’d find across Izril.
Right? Right? Saliss muttered to himself.
“But then…how the hell does a magirite test produce a 1.01 result with a beetle in the New Lands? With an active mana drain effect everywhere?”
His head slowly turned left and right, and then he whispered as he pulled up some ordinary yellow grass made by the Archmage of the Eternal Grasses. Stared at a bug fanning its wings and a colorful abdomen rising on a leaf.
“It’s all magical. Just not—here.”
Where the hell was it all going? And if you took this out of the New Lands…Feathi loved the grass…
Saliss’ mind was racing suddenly. He was glancing at everything, then, and wondering—how powerful is a Heatband Lizard outside the New Lands? Magic didn’t drain into nothing. Was it entering the atmosphere or somewhere else?
He was about to run around and scream randomly until Bevussa found him when the Drake saw a flicker of light. He paused, yanked out a vial from his side, and rolled out of his bedroll as he readied himself.
New Lands of Izril meet Saliss of Lights. The Drake peeked around a tree at the shining figure and then relaxed. He hesitated, then stood.
There was a babbling brook next to the camp, idyllic—and also non-potable according to Saliss’ tests. But it was still reflective thanks to little stones on the bottom, and a Drake stepped forwards, past the trees.
If she glanced down, she could see herself walking there. An alchemy-wrought form. The Drake had cobalt blue and rose pink scales, mismatched blue and yellow eyes, and she was right there.
Hidden, at times. But there, like the glimmer of a mirror. The figure caught in the corner of your eyes. Waiting for the veil to lift and to appear when she was needed. No dream.
Onieva smiled and waved as the glowing figure turned. Ishkr laid eyes on the Drake coming his way, and she smiled with Saliss’ lips. Spoke in his voice…but she could hear herself.
See herself as she waved a hand and blew a kiss at the Gnoll she hoped could see her too, even without a potion. She saw the [Server]’s eye brightened, and the shy smile filled his face. Onieva winked as her spirits rose.
“Hey, Ishkr. How was your week?”

10.48 VS (2025-11-02)

“It’s a trap.”
Who said that? 
They were descending through the wending tunnels of eerily smooth stone, torches and [Light] spells casting long shadows on the walls. Some…vast and sprawling maze of intersecting tunnels penetrating deeper into the earth.
Too long to have any purpose clear to those within. An arterial structure of tubes, meeting and intersecting, fragmenting into stranger organs.
A Selphid’s creation. The tunnels were…cramped. Claustrophobic. They were wide enough to let six people walk shoulder-to-shoulder without cramping them, but the columns of Calanferian soldiers and colonists only walked two-at-a-time.
The horses had to wear blinders and be led by hand single file. It felt as though, with each step, cotton was being pressed into their ears. The heartbeats and rush of one’s own blood grew louder. Each sound more intrusive until footfalls sounded like thunder, air being inhaled a storm.
Talking…ceased except when necessary. Thousands of minds wished to go back—but they were being pursued. The Iron Vanguard.
They had to go deeper. And now, they were realizing they were no longer alone. The deeper the shadows drew, the closer everyone got to one another. Except for one.
The [Knight] walked ahead of the others, motioning to the Goblin with the bow. He tapped the Knight of Spring on the shoulder, leading the vanguard.
“Stay behind me, Seraphel. I know dungeons. You, uh, bad Goblin. With me.”
“Yes, sir, Slayer Guy.”
“I’ve got your back, Rabbit.”
They strode ahead, but even their advance…slowed. Clumped up. The probing souls moving ahead began to cease walking forward, or even move in reverse. As if something was dragging them backwards.
“Pull the scouts back.”
“Ambush, Captain Ennerev? Captain?”
A strained voice. Was it Captain Ennerev who spoke?
“No…Lord…Lord Cortese. They’re panicking.”
“Tell them to…to…fall back. Thronebearers, forwards. Don’t let the columns be separated. Pursuers?”
None. And then the voice spoke.
“It’s a trap.”
Who said that? It was bad luck to say something like that. No one had been attacked yet. The voice was grating, too loud. The footsteps shuffled onwards.
“It’s a trap. ‘Tis a trap and smells of one. If not a trap, then…this place was not made of the likes of us. You ken what I’m saying?”
No response.
“Hello? Why aren’t you speaking? Ksmvr? R-Revi?”
Who? The voice grated. Deeper, they were heading, and now something was stirring. Silence now, blessed, except for that voice.
“Lord Racist, sir. Rabbiteater? No one’s…Princess? Can anyone hear me? Even you, Clatterface? Veine? Something’s wrong. Look at me. Stop, stop. Something’s very wrong. You’re all walking in sync. Snap out of it. Ksmvr…the lights are going out.”
Deeper. Until the tunnels pulsed around them and thoughts grew so loud they drowned out all other noise. And the world grew bright again.
Then…they lost count. Of numbers. Names.
Mostly everything.
 
——
 
Baleros’ jungles by spring were not a place any sensible commander would wish to advance into. However, the trail was fresh. The pursuit was behind only half a day at most, and the Calanferians were tired, out of their element, and had been forced to clear a path.
Therefore, there was every expectation of catching them and bringing them to battle by dusk at the latest. To that end, four legions had been disembarked from four warships. Each legion had begun their advance through the jungles, the first of which followed the Calanferian’s trail exactly; the others were forced to clear paths, a difficult process even with the War Walkers and [Mages].
[Steel Commander] Bizine was determined to bring the rearmost elements of the Calanferian army to battle. Thusly, she advanced at full speed until her pursuit encountered an obstacle.
“The legion will halt.”
The armored Dullahan threw up a hand, and the voices of Dullahan officers echoed around her. Her [Strategist].
“The formation will encircle the tunnel entrance and prepare for ambush.”
[Captains] of each company within the legion.
“Mitrix Company shall dig in!”
“Obric Company, [Overwatch] those trees.”
“Colnec Company, dig in!”
Then the lesser officers gave such orders as necessary, redirecting soldiers. As they had not been brought to battle yet, Steel Commander Bizine allowed the proper protocols of command to continue, but waited, chafing with impatience.
This was no regular campaign; it was practically adamantine in priority. The Seer of Steel himself requested hourly updates. She had a list of prisoners of war to take at all costs, and…she was well aware that she was not only within Jungle Tails’ territory, but facing at least one Level 40 [Knight]. Possibly higher if the reports from Pursuit Fleet Comodas were to be confirmed. A warrior possibly at Level 50, to withstand a full barrage unaided.
By contrast, Bizine was merely a [Steel Commander], but that did mean she had passed her way up the ranks and was now commanding a legion—four legions—of Dullahans wearing steel armor. Of course, [Iron Commander] and [Stone Commander] didn’t always match your command in this day and age, as the Iron Vanguard used very little non-magical iron when they could begin at steel…in practice, it was stone or wood in the lowest commands, used for training or securing areas, not open combat. It was a mark of desperation to call on a group of lesser-clad Dullahans in the Iron Vanguard, but they did not have enough steel for everyone.
Outfitting millions of Dullahans in armor taxed every forge in the north. After all, not just [Soldiers] wanted steel plate, but civilians too! Few armies in the world could outfit so many warriors in full plate; she had heard Ailendamus of Terandria could field similar armies. No species but Dullahans had such heavy, all-encompassing armor for even their meanest soldiers.
Thusly, as she waited for the [Scouts] to report in, she had every hope of prevailing against the common Calanferian [Soldier] in massed-melee. However, her heart sank as the first Dullahans wearing the lightest armor they could—cloth—came back.
It always seemed so painful to her to wear armor that moved slightly with their bodies. And it had to be so light, without the comforting pressure of regular armor. She wondered if their bodies covered by the ‘armor’— which made them look like slightly padded Humans—hurt if they struck branches too hard. How naked it must feel! But the [Scouts] worked with great distinction, and to offset their humble attire, each one carried a badge of metal that other Dullahans might know they were not so poor or desperate as to use cloth.
The [Scout Leader] reported to her as bugs buzzed around the Dullahans, finding little to bite except faces, and those were smeared with unguents to keep them off. Even so, Bizine had to resist the urge to swat several which landed on her face anyways.
“We have scouted for signs of massed troop movements or ambush within five miles. We cannot detect any trails other than the ones that lead into the tunnels, Steel Commander.”
“So noted, Scout Leader. Strategist, have legions Foundment and Callidec move up on the flanks. Locate other entrances or forge ahead. Legion Thirs will join at location to encircle and fortify. Scout Leader, locate more such tunnel exits. Magus, a line to Invictel as well as a request for an audience with the Seer of Steel.”
It was done. Within minutes, Steel Commander Bizine had put in two requests. One for information, one for an audience with her acting-commander for this mission. Normally it would be a [Strategist] or [General] of Invictel. Even Tulm the Mithril if the moment was urgent enough. But he was in Izril’s New Lands, and the Seer of Steel…
Bizine was nervous, but she projected her voice as she gave orders. The Seer of Steel was listening through the scrying orb, but gave no orders. If she erred, it would be noted.
“The legion will encamp! The Calanferians have entered the Mindscape Ruins; a known death-zone. Massed combat will result in unacceptable casualties. Thus, the legions shall locate exits and bring the Calanferians to battle if they emerge.”
It was required to inform the legions of reasoning for orders that went against their main directives, which was to bring the Calanferian force to battle. Steel Commander Bizine turned, then, and the scrying orb lit up.
Then the Seer of Steel spoke in a deep, booming voice. His body was that of a War Walker, and even in the scrying orb, his voice was too loud. Bizine had seen him striding along, wearing a scrying orb for a ‘head’. It allowed the body to fight while the head remained in Invictel, giving orders.
How the Seer of Steel could operate his body miles from where his head was she had no notion. She could manage twenty feet at most before her body grew uncoordinated. Bizine knelt, waiting for censure or correction as the voice boomed.
“YOUR ANALYSIS IS AGREED UPON, STEEL COMMANDER. RECORDS INDICATE THE MINDSCAPE RUINS CAN EASILY WIPE A LEGION. I AM UNEASY ABOUT REMAINING IN JUNGLE TAILS TERRITORY, HOWEVER.”
“I shall deploy scouts to further monitor our flanks, Seer of Steel.”
Bizine had to try not to shout in reply to the voice. The Seer of Steel rumbled.
“DO SO. ARE YOU PREPARED TO BRING CALANFER TO BATTLE? REPORTS OF SER SOLSTICE INDICATE HIS LEVEL EXCEEDS THAT OF CONVENTIONAL WARFARE.”
In other words, his actions could change a battlefield by himself. Steel Commander Bizine shifted uncomfortably. She had served with distinction for fourteen years fighting Maelstrom’s Howling forces…but individuals of the caliber of this ‘Ser Solstice’ were still few and far between. When the Bannermare or her mother took to the front, Bizine was not in charge. This would be her crucible, if the Calanferians survived where they had gone.
“I am uncertain, Seer of Steel, but there is no other commander present with higher levels or greater experience save for [Warship Captain] Ledr, and his speciality is not suited for ground-based warfare. My intention is to use our irregular forces to counter him. One of the Eternal Nobility has been attached to my legion.”
The Seer of Steel’s face relaxed slightly.
“THE ETERNAL NOBILITY? AH, VERY GOOD. WHO FIGHTS WITH YOUR LEGION?”
A pause. Bizine’s face went slack as she turned to the [Strategist], who in turn had to consult their notes. The Seer of Steel noticed the pause, and rather than embarrass his underlings, he chuckled.
“I DO NOT RECALL. SCION TREFLAX?”
“I am unaware as well, Seer of Steel.”
She was allowed to smile, and they both met eyes, an honor that made Bizine sure she’d brag about it later. The Seer of Steel chuckled again.
“WITH GREAT RESPECT, CONVEY MY APOLOGIES. CONTINUE TO SEND ME UPDATES.”
The connection ended, and the scrying orb went back to simply recording the world around it. Steel Commander Bizine rose from her knee and turned. She gave few orders as her legions moved, locating two more entrances at greater distances, and she reviewed what files the Iron Vanguard had on this particular ruin.
She ordered her legion to move back a thousand paces from the entrance. Meanwhile, her scouts reported foreign contacts in the jungles, beyond local monsters and animals.
Out of caution, Steel Commander Bizine ordered the scouting net widened. [Cartographers] sent her old maps of known entrances to the Mindscape Ruins, and she advised the Seer of Steel that her legions would not be able to cover such a huge area without splitting up. She was ordered to avoid overextending and to deploy [Scrying] spells to every entrance instead.
 
——
 
The first night thusly passed with no incident. Steel Commander Bizine waited, playing Go with her [Strategist] until ten straight losses had her inspecting the camps.
The second night, her [Scout Leader] lost contact with a patrol. Their bodies were not discovered. Steel Commander Bizine reinforced the patrols with quick-response teams.
The third night, another patrol was attacked by a local monster known as a Duffshambler. It was quickly slain due to response teams.
The fifth night, Scion Thornidre of the Eternal Nobility offered to lead a detachment of volunteers into the Mindscape Ruins to pursue the Calanferians or confirm their demise. The measure was discussed at length, then decided against given the risks. Steel Commander Bizine also received a report from her [Scout Leader] that there were foreign entities moving in the jungles. He believed they were moving outside of his directed radius and feared he was outmaneuvered.
Steel Commander Bizine refused a request to range over twenty miles from any legion’s presence, but requested [Scrying] spells to sweep the jungles. This earned her minor censure from the Seer of Steel, who explained that most conventional [Scrying] spells did not move in linear patterns nor would reveal much from an aerial view. He did devote some of his own abilities to scrying, however.
Day seven. The Seer of Steel issued an alert to Steel Commander Bizine. [Scrying] spells had shut off in a wide sector around her western flank. She ordered her legions to redeploy and change their formations in anticipation of attacks.
Day eight—the first ambushes of scouting patrols revealed assailants’ bodies. Lizardfolk. Scouting south of Steel Commander Bizine revealed more elements moving. West, north, south—Warship Captain Ledr confirmed visible movements from his position.
Open combat on day nine with Jungle Tails. Steel Commander Bizine reported her forces were outnumbered and requested the fleet deploy reserves to avoid the southern elements from completing an encircling action.
Day eleven—legions abandoned all but the primary entrance to the Mindscape Ruins. To prevent further casualties, Steel Commander Bizine requested withdrawal from the Seer of Steel. It was granted, and her legions fell back to their warships with minimal pursuit. However, the warships remained anchored despite occasional harassing fire from the coast.
They finally left on the nineteenth day, in order to resupply, and only maintained two monitoring vessels. Steel Commander Bizine was unhappy with her failed objectives, casualties taken, and retreat. However, the Seer of Steel’s analysis of her actions was ratified by Invictel [Strategists]; all out warfare between both forces would have only destroyed both’s combat potential to no end.
Moreover, it seemed Jungle Tails was equally unsure of whether the Calanferians were alive. Pending resupply, Steel Commander Bizine would resume the pursuit. If they were alive.
Nineteen days. Projections indicated that even with a full cargo of supplies for the New Lands, the Calanferians would not have enough for more than a month of provisions. And it was unlikely they’d carried that amount with them off their ship, even with Chests of Holding. For now, the Iron Vanguard waited to see what this element of Jungle Tails would do. They were not in open conflict with Jungle Tails…yet.
In truth, the only distressing part of this campaign was that the Titan of Baleros had intercepted and decoded transmissions about the Calanferian detachment and had placed a bid on Steel Commander Bizine’s legions to destroy the Jungle Tails forces. Aside from that predictable, yet unacceptable, breach of security, all had been acted on according to protocol.
 
——
 
Thus, two levels higher and many, many mosquito bites shorter of blood, Steel Commander Bizine signed her report of the campaign on the twentieth morning over breakfast in the warship. She glanced over the report, and her quill wavered as it came time to append any additional notes.
The Dullahan woman was uncertain and fiddled with her helmet for a while. In the end, she elected not to mention the strange…feelings from below. She had plenty of reports from other officers of Dullahans hearing voices that weren’t there. Emotional outbursts. Disquiet in the ranks.
Her superiors were well aware of the Mindscape Ruins’ phenomena. Bizine elected not to add anything that would impugn her record or status, especially since it wasn’t new information.
She just wondered—
What was going on down there?
 
——
 
Her name had been Gilthisa. Was Gilthisa. Is Gilthisa. Which was it? No one knew.
She…had…was…is…
A [Diligent Peasant], Level 21. Chosen for the New Lands expedition for her level and knowledge of agriculture, construction, and foraging. As well as her health, marital status, and so on.
She hadn’t known what ‘agriculture’ meant when the [Recruiter] was writing down names, and the embarrassment stayed with her. She had walked for fourteen miles at the break of dawn to reach the city to volunteer. The memory of townspeople laughing at her was still with her to this day.
Fresh, hot embarrassment. Feeling ignorant, foolish. The exasperated expression on the polished [Recruiter]’s face as he explained it meant farming.
It lingered, that emotion. Resurfacing when she was least expecting it or when her shames surged up, like bubbles of agony or embarrassment bursting in her head.
But that did not define her. It was not the only memory she had, just one of the freshest. The other one, that shone brighter still, was the elation of being chosen. Disbelief of the other villagers, the vindication and triumph of them coming to her after being shunned. Seeing the [King] himself in the Eternal Throne itself.
The awe of it. Trembling at the knees, breathless, glory and hope filling her body as she knew she was chosen to bring Eternal Calanfer’s light to the New Lands. 
Terror she would fail. 
Joy she was chosen.
Then the battle at sea, and more terror, trapped within a sweltering mass of bodies, hearing screams from above. Being handed weapons by frantic [Soldiers] and told they would fight if needed—
That memory was shared. Like a scar made of blood driven through the head. Blood on the decks, [Pirates] grinning as they swung aboard. Dead bodies falling into the water.
Terror and rage and fear and desperation and—
It was a maelstrom, a storm that followed. Gilthisa had not been there on the decks, reaching for her friend as he slipped into the waves. Nor tried to leap into the waters after the other [Knight] only to be thrown to the deck and ordered to fight—fight because they were almost overrun.
But she had. She was Ser Collins, a [Knight] and Thronebearer of the Illuminance-rank, serving under…
No.
Who was she? There was no Gilthisa. Just the memories of a woman named Gilthisa.
One of many. Many that were one. It…wasn’t dark anymore.
There was light. Flickering off the walls, a glow of it that came from the travellers, a sea of lights merging, wending together. Bright streams joining, overtaking the smaller strands.
If there was a Gilthisa, it wasn’t because of her class. Or name. Or rank.
It was because she, her memories, were brighter. A few of them. Her awe was not unique, though it was strong. Her shame? Stronger. A bright flash of memory unfaded. But what drowned it out was…
A grinning face staring up at her. The glint of a tooth under moonlight. Panting, shaking, hands trembling as they let go of the knife’s blade. A gurgle of bowels voiding, and the stench. Then the scream—
Which was it? Guilt? Horror? Sadness? Terror? Rage?
A mix of them. The memory refused to die. It was…not larger or longer, but deeper than the others. More vibrant. Overwhelming other memories of tying shoes or other things. It was defined. A sinking mass of feeling that collected other such emotions around it. So what was strongest, even in the ocean, was that memory.
Husband-killer. [Murderer]. A class written in blood, until it had been deemed self-defense by the Thronebearer and [Bailiff]. But the shame persisted, the way they looked at her. The memory.
She had told no one. None of the [Recruiters] had known or brought it up. But that memory was now…it defined everything. Drew other memories to it.
A mugging in an alleyway. Begging for mercy and calling for a Thronebearer who never came. The agony of having fingers broken.
Another man, [Carpenter] Kilne, whose left hand still didn’t move properly to this day. Only his level, 32, had made him eligible for this trip, and the fact that he had been willing to risk his life. What good was a [Carpenter] with one hand to compete at making beautiful furniture? But perhaps…
Defeat in battle. Watching more and more of the friends she’d grown up with cut down by a hail of Ailendamus’ crossbow bolts as they fled. Golden armor broken and stained red as she ran backwards, heart thundering in her chest—
Dame Neranthei, in service now to Princess Seraphel. Only…
Who was Princess Seraphel? Who was Neranthei?
The names were ceasing to matter. Only the memories. And with the memories came names, but only a few echoed across all of them. Seraphel…yes…
Seraphel did echo. So did ‘Ser Solstice’ and ‘Thilowen’ and ‘Ksmvr of Chandrar’. But only them. Who they were was still a mystery. If they were an idea, down here, it was so many things.
Ser Solstice, a great and glorious hero. A [Knight] of mystery. A warrior without peer.
A mask. But this voice was so tiny it could barely be heard. One amongst thousands.
Princess Seraphel. A beautiful [Princess] of Calanfer. A cursed woman. A pitiable figure. Someone who loved wretched undead?
So terribly alone.
It didn’t matter. Deeper and deeper they were going, and now…
Now, there wasn’t any Gilthisa left. Just the memories. And what emerged from each were the pools as the ocean dripped downwards. Tributaries of color running together and forming…well.
Emotions.
 
——
 
Anger baked the skin. It simmered, building and heating more of itself into embers that blaze into true, roaring flames of rage. It was common, from each and every one of those-that-had-been.
But it was not equal. It had many flavors, each one bitter. It was almost always tainted.
The helplessness of a child railing against bullies. The frustration of losing a game of cards. Or staring at a superior shouting down at you. These were common, and thus, present and plentiful, filling space, but they were just…basic.
It was the deeper emotions that drew the others to them and formed the basis of everything. The true and abiding rage of someone who had lost everything. A parent losing a child. A lover killed in battle.
All of your friends. Helplessly watching them vanish as ships died at sea—
That was fresh. That battle at sea was the still-burning spark that threatened to make this feeling ignite into true fury. The death, the blood, the—
 
——
 
Guilt. A sea of it. That was another pool, and it was swirling around those who held it in their chests. Guilt and rage, so close in many ways, but this was the weight, like leaden chains, as opposed to the flaring sparks. It, too, was common, but some held it deeper.
Pride and guilt were the two faces of the coin that flipped endlessly, and in this moment, in this place, every coin had landed with guilt’s face showing. 
For the battle at sea. 
For the fallen Earl Altestiel.
For all those who had died, and if it could have been stopped…if he had only made the right choice. Was this the right choice? But guilt awaited in every decision.
A drawn sword, and a bared back. Hesitation. Lowering the blade—and all that remained was—
 
——
 
Sorrow. Now this, this was just a river of tears. Purer than guilt, which was a twisting spiral dragging you down. It was the water that flowed from the rock, but, crucially, it would never heal the rock it wore down.
It was neverending, because it was always behind. An open wound bleeding forth. And there were those who defined the other emotions.
A steel will, enforced by one man whose name still echoed—Thilowen. Protect the [Princess]. Keep the secret. Protect the—
Guilt, what if he had done the wrong thing? That raised sword—
The ship vanishing. The anger that vision produced. Again and again—
But they were an amalgamation of other points of view. Drawing together, seeking outlets in the only way they could be expressed, by the best vessels. However, sorrow?
Hers were not the greatest of all. It shouldn’t be compared. But hers was so long. It had so few breaks. A ribbon woven behind a smiling mask and that bleeding heart from the day she turned sixteen. 
Seraphel. And the husbands whom she had never loved, the cage which snapped shut again and again and ever again, even when death should have set her free. 
Despair, deeper still. A beautifully deep color at the heart of it all. Despair, for she had no hope nor glory in the Eternal Throne. Just a soft bed of despair to lie against until…
Until there was hope. A ray of it piercing down in the gloomy lands of Noelictus, and terror, and the feeling of waking up and being alive until despair gripped it again and—
That was what drew colors to her. The flashes of bright hope against despair only enhanced the color. The horror she told no one, of her wedding nights. The days that seemed to have no end—
That drew them around her. Gentle, melting butterflies made of tears joining the [Princess] who sat at the bottom of the sea, head craned upwards. Staring up at those little stars of hope she could see.
But not here. Here…the seas closed, and she sank deeper and deeper.
 
——
 
And there they were. Suddenly, there were numbers again. No names, but individual perspectives had emerged out of…everything.
Guilt.
Anger.
Sadness.
Will—but this was a tiny amount, for it defined so few—
Columns of colors winding through the tunnels. Moving as one. Each one fit, but there was one—one more.
It was a hard emotion to name, for it contained so many things that fit other perspectives.
He had lost his family. More than once. He hadn’t…even had a chance to bury them. It wasn’t fair. It was never fair. Why him? Why was he so weak? If only he’d been stronger, if only he hadn’t been a fool, she’d never have tried to die for him. She was melting. Even now, he couldn’t do anything more than hold her in his arms. So easy to give up, to say enough and lie down. But he refused to die. Refused to let his brothers’ sacrifice be in vain. A flower. Remember the—
The single perspective shivered as the sea of colors ran around it, and it should have been erased, picked apart and joined the myriad divisions. But there were rules even here. The heart that beat each conflicted emotion was overwhelming. The emotions were too loud and refused to part.
No knife could separate them, however subtle. And—it was more than that.
He’d been here before. It was in the [Innkeeper]’s guilty smile. A thousand and one peaceful days won at the cost of his brothers’ lives. A flower. The hand of friendship from a [Knight] he never thought he’d be offered.
A waving white flag. It was desperation, determination, grief, and anger, a hand clinging to another, a knee refusing to bend. So perhaps—you would call it courage. Wonder? Triumph and glory, a determination to seize it again.
A fifth pool of color broke from the others and drew more towards it, that alluring glow. Until five colors wound into the heart of the strange tunnels.
Even the watchers were impressed. For they were used to many such colors, but they had never seen this one in such number with their own eyes. Perhaps…perhaps these weren’t the same prey as most. It would be so easy…but there was a single voice that called out, which refused to join the colors. Few had ever done that. And that strange color—yes, better to wait and see.
 
——
 
The Synectic Maze: Fervored Strataveins (Level ???)
 
(Something is wrong. You know it. You…have to leave. You’re not sure who ‘you’ are. But you have to leave. The tunnels are vast. They echo with laughter. Something is coming. You have to fight. Fight…but who is there to fight?)
(There’s no one here. But surely…you can hear it. It’s shuffling closer. Tall. So tall it nearly touches the smooth stone of the circular tunnel mouth. The moss is blooming all colors around you. It reeks of malice. Its skin is sloughing off. It’s too tall. It has five mouths. Kill it.)
(Do you even have hands?)
(The snuffling grows louder. The shambling thing—it wants to kill you. Do something! You have to do something! The colors are rushing. They’re…gathering.)
 
Combat Start: Tears splash to the ground. The Weeping Princess appears.
The Weeping Princess weeps for the childhood she left behind.
 
(The Shambling Thing draws closer.)
 
The chains of guilt rattle. The Guilty Man stumbles into being.
The Guilty Man orders someone to attack. He casts around.
 
(No one can attack.)
(The Shambling Thing draws closer. It’s almost upon you.)
 
A wordless howl from the darkness. The Angry Woman leaps forwards.
The Angry Woman attacks the Shambling Thing! She delivers 2 damage.
 
(The Shambling Thing swings an arm. Its blows tear at the air. They could break a neck. They deal 34 damage to The Weeping Princess.)
 
The Weeping Princess sheds more tears. She looks for a [Singer].
 
(No one is singing.)
 
You can hear a heart beating steadily. The Lonely Warrior has to act.
The Lonely Warrior strikes The Shambling Thing with all his might! He delivers 59 damage!
 
(The Shambling Thing is hurt. Its blood is purple. It splashes to the ground, but it refuses to retreat. Can it even feel pain…? It tries to drag The Guilty Man away.)
 
The Guilty Man begins to attack, then hesitates. He looks at his sword. He does not attack.
 
(The Guilty Man is being strangled. He takes 33 damage.)
 
The Weeping Princess is helpless. She watches. She always has to watch.
The Angry Woman lashes out! She does 4 damage!
The Lonely Warrior slashes with any weapon he can find. He deals 45 damage!
 
(The Shambling Thing is badly hurt. Pieces of its body are falling down. It reaches down vaguely and tries to put an arm back on. It flops to the ground, twisting like a worm.)
 
The Guilty Man orders The Angry Woman to attack the leg! [Furious Assault]!
The Angry Woman tries to handicap the Shambling Thing! She delivers 18 damage!
(The Shambling Thing is crippled. Its movement speed is reduced.)
The Weeping Princess hopes things will get better. She is still crying. But she knows it never will.
The Lonely Warrior hacks the Shambling Thing apart! He delivers 88 damage!
(The Shambling Thing is dead! You receive 52 EXP and a Mound of Oozing Purple Flesh!)
 
(The party continues through The Synectic Maze. They’re getting hungry. Provisions are running low. What will you do? Eat the Mound of Oozing Purple Flesh?)
 
The Weeping Princess cannot bring herself to eat the flesh. She goes hungry.
The Angry Woman sinks her teeth into the flesh and grows sick. Her stomach is full.
The Guilty Man offers food to The Weeping Princess. She is fed. He goes hungry.
The Lonely Warrior eats some moss. He is partially filled.
 
(The party continues. The Angry Woman is violently sick. She receives a fever and begins to shake. She takes 14 damage. In time, the sickness fades. The Guilty Man loses stats due to hunger.)
(You think you’re going the right way. Are you? You can’t tell. Up. You think you need to go…up. But the tunnels stretch outwards. They’re changing color, aren’t they? You’re staining them as you walk. You can’t help it.)
(The party shuffles through a sea of bones. They fill this next section. It might be very dangerous. Do you continue?)
 
The Weeping Princess waits for someone to save her. But there’s no one. She feels like she’s forgotten something…
The Angry Woman continues ahead, heedless of the danger.
The Guilty Man warns The Angry Woman to look for traps.
The Lonely Warrior tries to eat the bones, but they’re too old. He picks some up anyways.
 
(The party continues until they come across the source of the bones. It’s a Ravening Beast, all teeth! It crawls forwards, claws clicking over the ground. You cannot count how many legs it has. Its center is glowing orange. It thinks at you: ‘death.’)
 
Combat Start: 
Her hands are trembling. The Weeping Princess sits and wishes for a chair.
She wants it dead. The Angry Woman charges into battle.
Sighing, The Guilty Man wonders if this monster can be reasoned with.
The Lonely Warrior feels like he’s met this beast before. He readies a weapon.
 
(The Ravening Beast leaps at the party and slashes, biting and chewing. It delivers 58 damage to The Weeping Princess! It delivers 11 damage to The Angry Woman! It delivers 22 damage to The Guilty Man! It delivers 32 damage to The Lonely Warrior!)
(Blood is running onto the ground. The Ravening Beast seems to be everywhere. It wants you dead. You can feel it. The walls are glowing with orange…eggs? You feel like you have to destroy it.)
 
The Weeping Princess calls for help! She pulls out a toy soldier and begs it to fight. Then she weeps, but she is tired of weeping.
The Grim Knight appears! He slashes the Ravening Beast and delivers 44 damage!
The Angry Woman bites and claws at the Ravening Beast in turn! She delivers 1 damage!
The Guilty Man asks if the Ravening Beast is a monster. 
 
(It does not respond.)
 
The Lonely Warrior throws the bones he took! He deals 1 damage to the Ravening Beast!
 
(The Ravening Beast focuses on The Weeping Princess! It begins to eat her! It delivers 144 damage!)
 
The Weeping Princess begs for aid. She’s crying. She promised to stop. She swore to stop. She’s forgotten something important. Where’s the music…?
The Angry Woman attacks the Ravening Beast! She delivers 3 damage.
The Guilty Man orders The Weeping Princess to flee! [Expeditious Retreat]!
The Weeping Princess doesn’t want to be alone. She does not flee.
The Lonely Warrior attacks the Ravening Beast from behind! He deals 66 damage.
 
(A Mysterious Watcher appears. It utters a warcry to the Ravening Beast and slings a stone! The Ravening Beast takes 14 damage!)
(The Ravening Beast is eating The Weeping Princess. It delivers 101 damage.)
“Fight! You have to fight! Stop—stop attacking in turns! Seraphel, do something!”
(For some reason, the Ravening Beast takes 3 damage.)
 
The Weeping Princess closes her eyes and pretends it’ll be over soon. She does nothing.
This is wrong. The ghost told her she had to try. She feels this is too familiar. A spider’s web. What’s…?
The Grim Knight shields The Weeping Princess! He protects her from damage this turn.
The Angry Woman lashes out at the Ravening Beast, trying to do more damage. She does 4 damage.
The Guilty Man orders the party into formation! [Hold the Line]! Damage taken is reduced!
The Lonely Warrior hates his foe. He remembers something. [Grand Slash]! He delivers 244 damage!
 
(A Mysterious Watcher is pleased. It stops attacking the Ravening Beast and starts smashing the eggs on the walls. Little wriggling things die as it stomps and stomps.)
“What are ye doing? End this madness! Rabbiteater, do it again! Ksmvr, don’t go with—”
(The Ravening Beast is furious! It abandons The Weeping Princess and swarms everything! It delivers 22 damage to all.)
 
The Weeping Princess realizes she’ll never be saved. Her tears stop.
The Grim Knight launches a counterattack! He delivers 33 damage to the Ravening Beast.
The Angry Woman stares at her hands. She’s too weak. She does nothing.
The Guilty Man draws his sword and hopes he’s right. He cuts at the Ravening Beast. He delivers 49 damage!
The Lonely Warrior wonders if his friends will survive. He attacks harder out of desperation! He delivers 94 damage!
 
(The Mysterious Watcher has smashed all the eggs. It waves and vanishes, pleased.)
(The Ravening Beast is weak. It tries to flee.)
(The Ravening Beast escapes! The party gains 288 experience and a Bottle of Water!)
“So many bodies. What’s that, Seraphel? Keep it. It can’t be worse than…”
The Weeping Princess equips the Bottle of Water!
 
(The party continues onwards.)
 
——
 
(You can’t tell how many days it’s been, now. You come to a strange…encampment in the tunnels. Another empty room. This one doesn’t contain enemies—for now.)
(The Mysterious Watcher is waiting for you. It has a base, strung up pieces of meat, and tools here. It smiles at you. It is ready to fight if need be.)
(The party is tired. The party is wounded. The party is lost. What do you do?)
“Listen ta me. They’ve got lots of them on the ramparts, and they don’t fight like you do. Do you understand? Even if we still outnumber them…”
 
The Angry Woman demands to know what The Mysterious Watcher wants!
 
(The Mysterious Watcher laughs. It replies that this is all a dream. ‘When you wake, if you wake, you’ll get it. You’re caught in your emotions.’)
 
The Lonely Warrior is confused. He scratches his head. How can we be uncaught, then?
 
(The Mysterious Watcher inspects The Lonely Warrior. It lowers its weapons. It says it’s never seen anything like The Lonely Warrior. He’s sort of scary. The Mysterious Watcher doesn’t want to fight. Not with ‘Jungle Tails’ above.)
 
The Guilty Man asks who ‘Jungle Tails’ is. He doesn’t want to fight.
 
“You serious, Lord Idiot?”
(The Mysterious Watcher finds the question highly amusing. It laughs. ‘They’ve come for you. But also us. You should leave. They won’t come down here in great numbers, but you won’t survive as you are.’)
 
The Weeping Princess knows it’s true. She bows her head, guilty. She’s let everyone fight for her all her life. Never again. She bites her lip. Never—
 
(The Mysterious Watcher points. ‘If you go that way, you might make it. But there are more monsters between you and the exit.’ It regards the four of you. ‘You’ll never make it as you are.’)
“Help us. In the name of the Faerie King, I ask…”
(The Mysterious Watcher hesitates. It argues with itself, then after a while, it gives you some meat.)
(The party eats the meat. It feels better. The Weeping Princess shares the Bottle of Water around. It has a funny taste, but it quenches your thirst.)
(The Mysterious Watcher wants the Bottle of Water. It offers to trade a Wooden Spear for the Bottle of Water.)
 
“That’s a stick with a point on it. I could wipe my ass with it. We’ve got more weapons if ye’d only use them.”
The Weeping Princess refuses after some thought.
 
(Disappointed, The Mysterious Watcher bids you farewell. It hopes to meet you under better circumstances. You continue on your journey.)
 
——
 
(It’s the eleventh encounter so far. You’re walking upwards, and you think you can feel a breeze on your face. No, wait. It’s just your imagination. You’re worried about how much further you have to go when an old foe reappears.)
(The Ravening Beast scuttles out of the shadows! It’s healed! Worse…there are two of them, now.)
(A second Ravening Beast has appeared! It’s smaller than the first.)
“More of them. Don’t let them get around you! There’s so many.”
 
The Guilty Man orders a barricade built! He tosses pieces of a broken ship down. The hallway is partly blocked.
The Lonely Warrior charges, heedless of the danger! He delivers 122 damage to the Ravening Beast! He takes 14 damage as he’s attacked back!
The Angry Woman throws stones! She delivers 1 damage.
The Weeping Princess has to fight. She flails at the enemy. She delivers 1 damage to the Smaller Ravening Beast.
The Grim Knight challenges the Smaller Ravaging Beast with a [Challenge of Honor]. It does nothing.
 
“Rabbiteater, get back! They’re all around your people!”
(The Ravening Beasts attack The Lonely Warrior! They deliver 144 damage! For some reason, they take 2 damage.)
 
He has to keep swinging, even if he dies. The Lonely Warrior continues to fight! He delivers 66 damage to the Ravening Beast!
[Take Cover]! The Guilty Man orders the Lonely Warrior to protect themselves! He activates the pieces of the toy boat.
 
(Zzap! The toy boat pieces blast the Ravening Beasts for 77 damage! They deliver 2 damage to The Lonely Warrior by accident.)
 
The Grim Knight toy is cracked and damaged, but it does its best. It slashes at the Smaller Ravening Beast for 23 damage.
The Weeping Princess is humming a familiar tune. She attacks and deals 6 damage! She feels odd.
‘Surely…something’s wrong. I feel it. This is not me.’
“Seraphel?”
 
The Angry Woman is staring at The Lonely Warrior fighting alone. It’s not his fault…is it? She stares at her hands. Then she remembers.
The Angry Woman draws a wand. She casts [Fireball]! Both Ravening Beasts take 160 damage! The Lonely Warrior takes 16 damage by accident.
 
“Feck me sideways! How did you all do that?”
The Weeping Princess blinks. It’s not her turn. But she felt the heat of that. 
Is someone talking? She knows it’s not her turn, but she looks around anyways.
There’s a tiny fly following the party. It has brown fur, goat’s horns, and hooves.
No, wait, it’s a Satyr! But it’s…wrong.
It calls itself Vofea. It keeps calling The Weeping Princess ‘Seraphel’. 
Seraphel blinks. She rem—
 
——
 
—ered her name. The [Princess] whirled, and then she saw and heard again. She saw and heard—not some strange being that thought of itself as ‘The Weeping Princess’, who had a thousand eyes and limbs. The break from that amalgamation of minds felt like ripping her entire body away from her finger.
And it was only the tiny finger which remained, alone and screaming—until she realized that was all of what she had been.
Seraphel stopped clawing at her face because she realized—the blisters on her skin and her ragged, filthy appearance meant this was reality. Her fingers hurt. Flames were still burning down the long tunnel, and they were fighting.
Crelers. The swarm was trying to come over the walls that were all that remained of the ship. Threatening to overrun the motionless ranks of people standing there. And in the center of the fighting was—
Rabbiteater? An entire column of people was buried in the center of the Creler swarm—two swarms, albeit reduced—standing still. Seraphel’s eyes bulged in horror. She saw blank-faced [Soldiers] holding still as Crelers covered them, biting, tearing—and they didn’t fight back.
Then, as one, the entire group lashed out, swinging swords, axes, even hoes and other tools at the Crelers. Lashing at them until the baby Crelers drew back; they attacked, stomping, following the lead of the battered figure in armor.
“Rabbiteater!”
She thought he’d drive the Crelers back entirely, but then the Goblin froze up. And so did the other warriors. The Crelers moved back on the offensive—or so she thought. But they froze up just like Rabbiteater.
Waiting…for their turn? Seraphel blinked. Now it was The Guilty Man’s turn…she swirled, and Lord Cortese strode past her, blank-faced. He and a column of people swung their blades at the Crelers, then stopped. Stepped back.
“What madness is this?”
Seraphel’s head was splitting open. For a moment, when Cortese had passed her, her mind was filled with guilt. Self-recriminations. The entire hallway had turned…purple. As if guilt were a physical thing, and it was! A glowing color emitted from Cortese’s group. It overwhelmed everything—until only guilt could remain. Then the purple was challenged by a flare of ruddy orange.
The Angry Woman. When Seraphel looked, she saw Menrise striding forwards, aiming a wand with ranks of men and women covered in injuries. Most didn’t have wands, but they were still aiming fingers glittering with crackling…
“Is that…?”
The [Lightning Bolt] came from hundreds of people at once. Seraphel cowered as the massed spells blew the Crelers apart. She gasped as the angry wave of emotions faded. Then felt sinister malevolence dawning.
The Crelers were attacking, shrieking as their ‘turn’ started, and they fought to make their emotions rage over the others. But unlike the others, she could hear…something.
A pounding malevolence. Almost a word. Death, the idea of it conveyed at everything and everyone that wasn’t them. Death—and a keening frustration. A rage as they poured towards the barricades, seeking to devour and kill Menrise’s group.
We are trapped! Kill! Kill! 
They were all trapped. No one stopped the Crelers from moving. Seraphel watched Lord Cortese standing there as Crelers scurried underfoot past him. Focused on Menrise. That was when the [Princess] moved.
“Menrise! Menrise, get back!”
They were bearing straight for her group! One was attacking Menrise herself! It crawled up her dress, horrible pincers beginning to bite her arm, and Menrise did nothing! Seraphel ran forwards and grabbed the Creler.
She pulled, and it came away, legs bloody, biting the air. Seraphel screamed and expected it to whirl and rip her face off—but it kept clawing at Menrise!
Ignoring her? The Creler flexed and wriggled in her grasp until she dropped it. Seraphel’s foot stomped, and the Creler compressed. She felt a horribly squishy hardness under her foot. She stomped three times—and it crawled out from under her foot, largely unharmed. It tried to bite Menrise again.
“No, no, no! Get away from her! Get—”
Seraphel’s seventh stomp finally ruptured its organs. It burst, spewing orange guts onto the smooth stone floor, and she squealed and leapt back. The Creler kept trying to move, though. So she kept stomping.
Eventually, it was only twitching. Panting, Seraphel stepped back, then saw the dying Creler turning. Trying to retreat.
They were heading back. She felt green glowing across the tunnels. Forcing the Crelers’ unified emotions back. Rabbiteater was beginning his attack.
“Madness. This is madness. Menrise—!”
Her friend was standing there, her helmet covered with bits of blood, bleeding—Seraphel searched for a healing potion, but she didn’t have one on her belt, and neither did Menrise! Behind her—
There were people on the ground, half eaten or bleeding to death. The rest stood, blank-faced, a blue glow fighting for dominance amidst the swirling colors overhead. Anger, simmering upwards…
“Insanity.”
Seraphel would have sat down and been sick or just given up, but the sound of metal striking stone or bodies told her the Crelers would be back. And—a glimmer of movement, a desperate voice in the tunnels drew her eye.
Something was moving. Independent of the strange waves of people. Seraphel broke away from Menrise with effort. She’d almost been drawn back into…
 
The Weeping Princess is doing nothing. The Guilty Man calls on her to act!
 
—No! Seraphel wrenched herself out of the haze of blue. Stumbled forwards, slapping her cheeks. What did she do last time?
Remember her name. Seraphel du Marquin. The song. Cara’s songs. She’d been humming it. The [Princess] hummed it again, bit the inside of her cheek, anything to keep herself individual and not part of whatever collective was trying to drag her back inside.
That was when she saw the only other figure who’d been free from this madness the entire time running down the line of the wounded and dying.
Vofea. The Satyr had a length of cloth in her hands, and she was grimly striding down the line, cursing. She was using a flask to clean each Creler-bit person she came to. Then she would take the vial and pour the liquid onto the bandages before wrapping them around open wounds. Passing by some people too hurt, running—
“Vofea!”
The Satyr nearly leapt into one of the motionless people as Seraphel raced towards her. The Satyr spun.
“Princess? You’re awake! Is Lady Menrise…?”
“She’s hurt! Help, Vofea—! What’s going…?”
“I have her. As much of this shite as we have left.”
Vofea saw Menrise was bleeding and shouldered past Seraphel. She ignored questions as she poured what Seraphel realized was healing potion onto bandages and wrapped them around Menrise’s gouged shoulder. Vofea poured the last few drops of the bottle into the wound, then dropped it. She reached down, and Seraphel saw the Satyr had a belt of bottles…mostly empty.
“Damn. We’re almost out. But if you made it…! C’mon, hurry!”
Vofea yanked at Seraphel, and the two stumbled forwards. Seraphel almost squealed as she realized they were going past the barrier, but Vofea just yanked something off her belt and handed it to the [Princess].
“I healed everyone not dead best I could. We’ve minutes.”
“To do what?”
Seraphel realized she was holding a familiar, silver blade. Vofea held the twin of it in her hands. She pointed to the swarm of still, waiting Baby Crelers. Without hesitation, she began stabbing them, grinding them beneath one hoof as she wrenched the tip of the enchanted blade through their bodies to bisect them.
“Kill ‘em. Hurry! They won’t fight back! Don’t ye remember?”
Seraphel froze up. She stared at the sword in her hands until marching figures made her twist.
Lord Cortese followed by Admiral Dakelos, Revi, and more men and women she recognized. The expedition…
 
The Guilty Man is sortieing.
 
Vofea grabbed Seraphel’s shoulder, snapping her out of it again.
“Stab them!”
Shakily, the 4th Princess did just that. She approached one of the glowing Crelers nervously and gingerly stabbed it with Ksmvr’s sword. She blanched as the tip of her sword produced an orange spurt of blood, but after a moment, when it refused to react, she realized…
“T-take this!”
She began stabbing, her blade missing half the time as the Baby Creler bled more and more profusely. Seraphel thought she was doing well until Vofea, who had torn up eight Baby Crelers, saw her.
“You idiot!”
She stormed over and slapped Seraphel across the head. The [Princess] flinched as Vofea bared her teeth.
“Stab and step! Tear them apart! Stop wasting time!”
She shoved Seraphel, and the [Princess] stumbled. Unused to the tone, shocked, Seraphel almost shouted back until she saw Vofea’s desperate expression. The Satyr was covered in blood and filthy. She appeared sleepless, and the orange blood and gore had fused to her fur and splashed up to her hips.
Seraphel gazed down at the blade in her hands and remembered that faint voice she hadn’t quite processed. The battles they’d fought.
 
(The Weeping Princess took 15 damage!)
 
What…did that mean? She gazed back at the dead bodies lying on the floor. Then at the blade in her hands.
The next Baby Creler not being hacked down by Lord Cortese’s ‘people’ was just standing there. Gingerly, Seraphel put a boot on its back and brought the blade down. It was…tough even with the enchanted metal. She twisted the blade, then pulled.
It was like carving through a piece of meat with bone. But her blade was exceptionally sharp. Seraphel wrenched the blade through the Baby Creler. She blanched as the little horror came apart, spilling its guts everywhere.
“Don’t stop! There are hundreds of the buggers!”
Vofea encouraged the [Princess], and Seraphel stomped a second Creler and began to bisect it. The effort took both arms, and she was panting after the sixth. She would have done a seventh, but Vofea shouted.
“Lady Menrise is doing more magic! Get back! What’s she…run, run!”
[Light Arrows] now. Seraphel saw Menrise pointing towards her and realized the danger. She fled with Vofea as arrows poured into the battlefield, hitting the Baby Crelers. It wasn’t just Menrise casting them, Seraphel realized.
“All of them?”
[Soldiers] and [Deckhands], [Knights] and commonfolk were all firing magic from their fingers as if they were Level 20 [Mages]. Seraphel couldn’t believe her eyes. Vofea, though, just cursed.
“I dunno how she remembered to use magic after so long of hitting things like a dunce! But if she doesn’t blast us all apart, she’ll kill everyone with her!”
“What?”
Surely hundreds, if not over a thousand, people all casting Tier 3 magic was a good thing. For answer, Vofea pointed and ran.
That was when Seraphel saw one of the quasi-[Mages] casting magic stop throwing [Light Arrows] and drop without a sound. They were convulsing on the ground, and Vofea grabbed something else and began to splash them with it.
“It’s the mana potions! Get one and give it to anyone who falls down!”
The [Princess] understood in an instant what was going on. Mana burn. Or more like—mana drain. Most of these people weren’t spellcasters! They had no mana pools, and Seraphel’s limited magical teaching told her that if they were somehow overdrawing on mana—
She cast around desperately for mana potions, and Vofea yelled.
“In the back! The horses have some!”
The horses were all standing together, placid, and Seraphel ran up to them and once again saw more colors. A very faint brown was emanating from this group. It felt like…worry?
But it wasn’t strong enough to push the other colors overhead back, so they just remained where they were. She yanked open pouches until she found some vials, then ran back. Only, she stopped as she saw what was coming.
 
(The Ravening Beast attacks in a desperate frenzy! The Smaller Beast is attempting to flee!)
 
One wave of Crelers was retreating—the other attacking Lord Cortese and Menrise equally. Seraphel screamed.
“Cortese!”
She didn’t recall much after that, only that she was swinging her sword at the Crelers, hacking at them and stomping until they fell back. Vofea was the one to snap at her.
“Seraphel! Seraphel, it’s done. There aren’t enough of them to think loud enough anymore. See?”
She pointed, and Seraphel saw the last of the Crelers were gathered together in a clump as Rabbiteater’s group hacked them up. They didn’t move or react—she stared down at the twitching Creler she’d ripped apart. It was still trying to move. Vofea gazed at it too before stomping it.
“I wondered if they’d start thinking normal once it was one or two left. Maybe they were, but it takes too long. Your lot dices up anything it kills. We’ve got maybe half an hour before they keep moving. C’mon. Healing and mana potions first. Bandage anything big. This lot’ll do a bit of healing, sometimes. Explain to me how you got out of this nastiness and maybe we can wake the others.”
Numbly, Seraphel followed Vofea. The Satyr was triaging the columns of people again. How long had they been down here? This was madness.
And—there were far fewer people than there should have been, at least by Seraphel’s count. She saw a group standing behind Ser Thilowen, much smaller, and the animals were in the back, but—
“How many died, Vofea?”
“Hundreds? I reckon at least a thousand. The Crelers were the worst. ‘Till I realized I could be killing them nonstop, all I could do was keep you and some others from getting killed when we were attacked. How’d you escape?”
“I don’t know. I felt something was wrong, and I was humming…it felt familiar. Wrong. Perhaps it was my class? My tiara? My aura?”
Vofea glanced sideways as Seraphel felt at her riding dress and her tiara, which was on her head. But her hands leapt away from her clothes in shock. She was covered in filth and sweat and dried blood, just like everyone else. The Satyr shrugged.
“Unless you can free the others, it ain’t much use. Now there’s two of us. Not much help when there’s an army to take care of. Oh, look. Your lot’s replaced you.”
“My—what?”
Seraphel turned and saw the ‘blue’ group that had been holding still throughout the battle was moving again. A blank-faced woman was leading them, and Seraphel saw, to her shock, that it was a familiar person.
“Gilthisa!”
“…Who?”
Vofea squinted at the woman wearing plain clothing. Seraphel pointed.
“She’s a [Peasant] from Esterfil. She killed her husband, only he was assaulting her, and then she joined the New Lands expedition, and she was so happy. She…”
“Have you two met? I’ve never seen her before now.”
Vofea eyed the woman again, and Seraphel gobbled for words.
“No. Never. But I was her.”
“Ah. The blue stuff floating out of all of you. Ach. Your minds are all entangled. What’d they say this was? Selphid stuff? Well, I hate all of those buggers now on principle. This trap will kill us all, Princess. Nevermind there’s been enough of us to kill most of what comes along. Those Creler-things keep eating at us, and there’s more horrors down here.”
Seraphel turned to Vofea, and the Satyr sagged. She was…young, wasn’t she? A new adventurer and part of the Horns of Hammerad? Seraphel wasn’t too clear, but she remembered Ksmvr of Chandrar lecturing her several times. Now, though, the Satyr seemed like she’d aged from what she’d seen so far.
And, Seraphel realized, as The Weeping Princess continued forwards, without her…
Now she and Vofea were the only two sane minds in this labyrinth from hell.
 
——
 
The one blessing was that movement in these tunnels took a long time. It wasn’t like they would stumble across another set of enemies instantly, according to Vofea.
“‘Tisn’t like much can live here given they need numbers to even exist. My guess is that if anything lives here permanently, it eats the moss and such.”
“Eats the moss?”
“Sure. You’ve had much of it. Rabbiteater’s group is sensible enough to munch it down, but it took a lotta time before your lot did anything.”
Seraphel recalled the low provisions of earlier and blanched.
“Then did the Angry Woman—Menrise—really eat…?”
“The purple meat? Yep. I tried to stop her. Got some of ‘em to vomit it back up, but six died, and the rest were so sick they couldn’t walk straight.”
Six. That meant every time she’d registered being hurt as The Weeping Princess…Seraphel blanched. They were riding in a wagon. The animals pulled it behind the main group, who were marching down the long tunnels slanting slightly upwards.
The tunnels. The tunnels didn’t end. They twisted and turned, not ever in sharp angles but in long sloping curves that made you feel like you were walking in odd spirals or bends where the tunnels slanted left or right or down, and you felt your sense of gravity and direction completely vanish.
That was unpleasant enough, but the ‘organs’ made everything far, far worse. Seraphel had wondered how they were able to fight in these tunnels—it almost made sense that they were attacking in waves because in some places the tunnels were too narrow to fight in. In some places, they did widen out, but it was when they came to a break in the long passages that she learned to prepare for battle.
The…organ-rooms were what she and Vofea called them. Huge chambers where monsters tended to live, given the relative space, and each one was unsettling to be in. None of them followed usual building standards. Not a single one was square or even perfectly round. They resembled organs. Just like the tunnels resembled veins—but of no creature Seraphel knew.
The sight of such a room, which might be shining with the colors of the monsters inside, would pulse ahead of the party, a sickening lighthouse, and Seraphel would grow to hate them. Not least because she felt like the emotions and light concentrated here. Pooled downwards like liquid, almost. Perhaps that was how the moss grew, for there was precious little moisture she could see, let alone light or food.
All of this was beyond intolerable, and Seraphel said as much in the first few moments of orienting herself to this new hell.
“This is madness, Vofea. Adventurer Vofea? Forgive me, but how did you not succumb to this?”
The Satyr just shrugged wearily.
“Just a trick of perspective. I keep myself to myself. This isn’t the first of such things I’ve seen. Not that most places in the Faerie King’s lands are like this, but a few, some. He permits no hostility, nothing that would violate hospitality, and most of his folk obey it. This violates any notion of hospitality, not that we had any expectation of it.”
Her answer confused Seraphel, who frowned.
“The Faerie King? Er, is that Chandrarian? Balerosian?”
Vofea glanced at Seraphel, then laughed.
“Ach. I forgot Ksmvr’s rule not to tell. Doesn’t matter. No, no. Just another realm. Another world entirely. Like yon Earther folk come from. But mine is different. Better and separate. Closed. So there won’t be help coming, even if I invoke his name.”
Seraphel’s mouth opened. Vofea invoked Earthers like Cara, but she claimed…! The [Princess] was about to babble questions, then just glanced around.
Bloody, blank-faced people marching past her. Cortese’s purple twisted with guilt. Blue tears wept from the eyes of ‘her’ group without end.
Not the moment. She breathed out.
“Can we wake them? The others?”
“If you can, be my guest. I cannae wake anyone. Not even the skeleton or ghost woman, Veine. All are trapped. I’ve slapped, shouted, done all I can think of. Nothing. The most I can do is protect Ksmvr here.”
The Satyr pointed, and Seraphel turned. What she’d assumed to be another piece of luggage on the wagon was, in fact, a hog-tied Antinium. He was radiating a faint grey, and she suspected that if he were freed, he’d be with Ser Thilowen.
“We should do that for everyone. At least Cortese, Menrise, and Rabbiteater—”
But then who would lead each group? Vofea read Seraphel’s mind and shook her head.
“Your lot stops when I take you away. I’ve healed everyone I thought was important and tried to keep them safe. But I’m almost out of your mystic healing potions.”
“We never had that many. Is—is that the entire stock?”
Vofea indicated three mostly-empty bottles on her belt and gave Seraphel a smile of pure despair.
“It is. I wasted much of it ‘till I realized it and the people it given to must be rationed. Bloodyhanded work. I knew it would be hard, this. But I thought it was only dying, not choosing who must die.”
The [Princess] put her head in her hands. Then she gazed at Rabbiteater.
“Surely we can rouse them if I can be freed. We must try. Come on—”
She rose. Vofea did not. Just wearily watched as Seraphel ran to the head of the lines and began to talk to Rabbiteater. Cajole him. Shook his shoulders, tried to break his stride. Poked him with her [Ghostly Hand], then struck his shoulders. Shoved and shouted at him.
Nothing. After a while, the Satyr called out.
“Something must have led you free. What was it?”
Seraphel, panting, returned to the wagon and sat there.
“I felt so helpless. I couldn’t do anything, and I wept and wept.”
“Yep. Fat lot of good it did until you started fighting. Even then, you fought like a drunken pixie.”
Seraphel flushed, remembering how she’d flailed at the foe.
“I recall. I remember thinking it was wrong. That I had done so poorly before. I—I never wanted to be so helpless again.”
Do something, idiot! Anything! Rabbiteater’s words rang in her head, and Vofea eyed her.
“True. ‘Tisn’t like the others fight proper either. It’s more like how they think you should fight and such. For instance, Ser Solstice? He charges in and slashes things, but I’ve not seen him kick anyone in the nutsack once. Only when he uses a Skill—then he looks like he did on the ship.”
It explained why The Weeping Princess was still acting like her. Seraphel rubbed at her face. The memories of her grief, of her failed marriages and despair, hung above her, the core of the blue river. It was embarrassing, familiar…and she refused to wallow in it.
“Never again I swore. Well, if that has freed me, then surely…why is Lord Cortese ‘The Guilty Man’?”
She pointed at him, and Vofea squinted.
“Is that what you call him in whatever you’re doing? Weird name.”
“Yes! He keeps wavering because of a sword? A raised sword?”
Bits and pieces of each person’s memories were jumbled up in Seraphel’s head. Only the strongest of each memory, but it left her rattled. Confused.
The Guilty Man—Lord Cortese’s group—wasn’t her own, so ‘his’ guilt was harder to remember. Seraphel could most strongly remember the poor [Peasant] or the grief of the others—though it all felt like her memories. As if she had once been forced to kill her husband.
If only. As if she…had once followed that white flag. She gazed at Rabbiteater, then Cortese, and focused on what she could recall of him.
Guilt. A sword raised towards someone’s back. Names and identity vanished in that haze where you lost even your name, but she, as Princess Seraphel, could extrapolate.
Had Lord Cortese been thinking of running Rabbiteater through during the Battle at Sea? Was his guilt over that? Or not doing it?
She shuddered, imagining Cortese prepared to kill Rabbiteater like Prince Iradoren. For what?
Well, hence the guilt. As for Lady Menrise…Seraphel gazed at the helmeted woman, marching along.
“I knew Menrise did not bear the cost of losing her people lightly. But that much anger…”
“Oh, aye. Threw herself at the monsters, she did. For all the good she does grappling. I fear more her magic. She’ll kill everyone in her company, doing that much.”
Vofea spat over the side of the wagon. Seraphel nodded.
Another complication. What could they do? Well, according to Vofea, they were able to act without waiting for one ‘feeling’ to assert dominance. Which let them run up to help heal people, get them out of the way, or stab the enemy to death.
“Not that it’s easy. The first things you ran into were taller’n bugbears. So thick I could’ve stabbed them all day and not gone through. Between two of us, we might do enough, but it’s not like two hundred Rabbiteaters using [Grand Slash].”
Seraphel remembered that. She nodded tightly, hands balled up in her dress.
“But we must do something! We surely must!”
Vofea eyed her sidelong.
“You’re the one with Skills and levels aplenty. I? I’ll take some if it’d help, but I’ll need many of ‘em to do any good, or so it seems. Thirty…mayhap the Folly of Isthekenous will grant them to me once I sleep. I’d take them now.”
She pulled some Creler blood off her fur, and Seraphel’s brows wrinkled up.
“You haven’t gotten a class yet? From all you’ve done? I swore I heard Adventurer Ksmvr telling you to gain one.”
“Oh, aye, I’d take it too.”
“Then…why haven’t you? Unless, somehow, none of this counts as levels?”
The Satyr shook her head. She tapped the side of it.
“Nah. I haven’t slept since we entered. I reckon that’s a lot longer than you’re supposed to go without sleep. Not sure how long it’s been, either. I stopped counting after twelve meals.”
“What?”
“Can’t. Or d’you feel tired?”
Seraphel’s entire body hurt. She had blisters which had popped and turned to raw skin; she was bleeding from her feet, and only the desperate situation kept her from collapsing. But her mind was sharp and active, and she said so. Vofea gave her a crazed grin.
“Strange to hear from a woman who’s walked and fought just as long without nary a wink.”
No one had slept. Seraphel’s eyes darted to the amalgamation of emotions, and she swallowed hard. Vofea nodded.
“I reckon that’s a waking dream or close enough. Yon Lizardfolk with the weird heads told us—well, me—that so long as we’re together, we’ll not die for anything but lack of rest, and this group does rest its body if nothing else. I’d use the time to scout ahead, but they warned me I’d be swallowed up alone. Even they have to go at least sixteen-strong.”
“The who?”
“The group we met.”
“Oh—The Mysterious Stranger? They were just one person to us.”
Vofea frowned as she gulped some water and shared it with Seraphel.
“What kind of names and things didja see?”
“It was very confusing. Sort of like a game of chess? Only, we were the pieces…the Lizardfolk were one person who kept hiding their face. And—and I think I remember you.”
“Ooh, what was I?”
“A fly.”
“What?”
“Well, Ser Thilowen was just a toy soldier…it must be because his group was so small. I had to ask him to fight.”
Vofea gnawed on this.
“Makes sense. The Lizardfolk were like me, free of this place. Though the Creler-things bit them up anyways. Later, when we went to the camp, they talked with me. D’you remember what they said?”
Now it was clear. Seraphel pressed her hands to her face, smearing blood onto her cheeks. She gagged and almost called for Mariel or Beacle, but…they were part of the others. Purple and orange, respectively.
“Jungle Tails. Oh no. On top of the Iron Vanguard? No wonder they laughed at Cortese. Were they truly about to ambush us?”
Vofea nodded and described the place that Seraphel had ‘seen’ in more detail. It had been a camp in one of the open, organ-like sections of the tunnels. A natural safe-zone? Or perhaps not.
“Their heads glowed. And were slightly too big-like. A few of ‘em were Nagas—at least, that’s what they called themselves. They seemed as though they’d be like wild fae in other times.”
“Meaning…?”
“Meaning they’d kill us if it suited them. But I made ‘em a touch interested, and Ser Solstice, wary. So they let us be. They said that this place rips you apart alone. Safety in numbers. Even we can’t venture far beyond this group or we’ll be lost.”
Seraphel shivered.
“What is the point of all this? This is the work of Selphids, surely. The Minds. It has to be. I have heard of the Minacien Wall. This breaches it utterly.”
Altering the mind on such a scale? Every kingdom of Terandria would have this place razed. Though it was practically abandoned to monsters and this tiny tribe, anyways. Vofea smiled.
“They said it used to be a Selphid place. But most of it’s wrecked. As to purpose…there’s something in some of the big rooms we come to. It collects. All the colors drip down into liquids. The Lizardfolk were harvesting some. My guess is it gives them the glowing heads. Looked tasty. Like blue fruit juice.”
Vofea licked her lips, then began spitting Creler blood out. Seraphel did likewise, reflexively, and gagged. She reached for her side and found something hanging there.
A…jar.
“Oh. What’s this?”
It was a lovely jar with glass on the upper portion and delicate blue metal on the bottom, worked with visibly glowing signs. A big metal cap was holding it in place.
Vofea peered at it.
“Ah, that. Now and then your lot picks things up. That came from the Creler nest. You found it amongst all the bones. Then you kept sipping from it. I tasted a bit just to make sure it weren’t more poison, but I dunno what it is.”
The Bottle of Water. Right. Seraphel gingerly unscrewed the flask and sniffed at the liquid within.
It was definitely not water. It had the faintest of odors like the metal had rubbed off into the liquid, but more than that, it had a faint tingle even when she poured it over her hands. It was clear, though, and Seraphel frowned.
“I took drinks of it. How much…?”
“It refills. Not sure how many of you drank it, but you didn’t shit yourselves on the march, so there’s that.”
That explains the smell. Because she was too tired to find water, Seraphel washed her hands and face with it, at least. If she’d drunk it, she doubted it could do worse.
Seraphel offered some to Vofea, and the exhausted Satyr let the [Princess] tend to her legs and fur. She winced a bit, but she just curled up. Seraphel realized, seeing how thin Vofea appeared, that the Satyr might have been working nonstop to keep them alive.
Trembling, Seraphel whispered.
“I’m so sorry. Thank you, Adventurer Vofea. I swear, by the Eternal Throne, I’ll make it up to you. Now, I’ll help too.”
One eye opened, and a goat’s pupil regarded Seraphel as Vofea smiled.
“At least I’m not alone. That’s something.”
Then she passed out without really sleeping, and Seraphel saw her mind joining the sea above for a few moments. She cleaned Vofea’s fur and skin as best she could. Then regretted using the ‘free’ Bottle of Water.
…It left a residue. Her quiet cursing made Vofea smile. The Satyr yanked herself ‘awake’ and swung her legs down to admire them.
“Eh, tisn’t the worst thing to happen, Princess.”
“I know that, but it’s damned uncomfortable!”
Seraphel scrubbed at the weird, filmy layer on her skin. Vofea eyed her.
“So it’s not the smell or your clothes?”
“No. Why would it be…”
Seraphel stared at her clothing, which was filthy, but she fit in with everyone else. Then she sniffed. Her eyes narrowed, and Vofea added unhelpfully with a touch of her mischievous side.
“Well, you lot did march and fight nonstop all this time. And yeh all eat. Not a single break between you. Mostly, it comes out, and it’s not like there’s flies, but—”
The shriek was of Princess Seraphel scrambling to find clothing, any clothing whatsoever. And clean wash water was the least of her concerns. Vofea shrugged.
“Don’t worry! My nose stopped working ages ago!”
 
——
 
There were some mercies. The ‘party’ did stop for breaks to rest their body, wherein they said and did very little. Occasionally, one group would do something, like Rabbiteater’s group finding stones to hand to Menrise’s. Prepping for the next fight in their own way.
There was some intelligence here, but it was like the actions of snails compared to Vofea and Seraphel, who took every moment they had. Mostly to talk and think; their bodies were just as worn out as everyone else’s.
“However, we hopefully won’t die of overwork or starvation. At least we do eat, even if our clothing is horrendous.”
Seraphel eyed the bloody hands shoveling food into mouths or drinking water with great worry, but Vofea had a more pragmatic approach.
“If they’re not bleeding or dying of mana-loss or whatever, it’s the best we can do. Now, what can we do?”
“Well…I think Lord Cortese is figuring out some things. Using the pieces of Throne’s Will as makeshift cover in battle is inspired.”
Even in his role as ‘The Guilty Man’, he was thinking tactically in ways Seraphel could not. She had run around looting all the chests and bags of holding, and as [Princess], she had keys that Vofea had lacked. The net result was several scrolls they could use against foes, and, perhaps most helpfully, they had grabbed every wand they could find and assigned them to Menrise’s group.
That would keep them from dying of mana-loss, or so Seraphel hoped. She’d been tempted to keep one for herself, but as Vofea had pointed out, ‘encounters’ were group battles. There was a limit to how much she and Seraphel could do without grand Skills or combat classes.
Case in point, there was a night attack. Not really an ambush; it scared Seraphel, but they saw the colors, a deep grey, and everyone was standing before the monster group came at them.
It was ‘only’ twenty-eight pig-things. Boars? They had metal armor and tusks, and once they realized how many people were here, they tried to retreat. But by that point, they were overwhelmed by a sea of people swinging weapons into their bodies; metal or not, it just took one ‘turn ’before they were hacked down.
Two casualties on Calanfer’s side. Several more hit hard or knocked flat, but Ser Thilowen’s group had shielded Seraphel’s.
Two…and Seraphel and Vofea hadn’t managed to do anything.
Or correction, Vofea had. The moment she’d seen the armored pigs, she’d charged them, shouting for Seraphel to help. The [Princess] had stabbed their underbellies and bloodied them, but then had to run before they trampled her.
Vofea, realizing the Stelbores were far too armored to cut down, had instead blinded two with quick stabs through the eyes, then discovered there was a gap in their armor. She’d cut the throat of another before they attacked.
“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”
Seraphel was kneeling over the two broken and trampled forms—[Sailors], she thought—as Vofea shook her shoulder.
“Princess, we’re moving.”
“We can’t leave them!”
Surely they had time. But the columns of people were trailing onwards, and as the lights of their combined thoughts faded…something was sucking at Vofea and Seraphel. Pulling her thoughts out of her body. As if her mind were nothing more than dust blowing into a vast, impassioned cyclone that would disassemble it, funnel it into—
“Princess!”
She had to leave the bodies, tears running down her cheeks.
 
The Weeping Princess shed more tears. All she was good for was crying.
 
Seraphel could almost hear the voice calling her…but she refused to let herself be subsumed again. She had to try.
“Never again. Never—never again!”
 
——
 
Not everything in these tunnels was violent. Sometimes, the party passed by things and chose to fight—or not. And what could survive in this place in great numbers?
Well, what about four-limbed ‘walkers’ that had no visible bodies? They resembled elephant legs up to an undercarriage of a body—but that was where their form ended. Just a rounded hump with legs, grey and wrinkled. No mouth, no appendages…until you realized their mouth was on their feet.
They walked over the moss to eat it. Then just swayed in place. There were over a hundred of them, and how much danger they could be? Unknown, but it didn’t come to a fight. They fled the moment they saw the party, excreting a slippery substance out of their mouths that might also function as rectums.
That nearly killed Seraphel. Because the moment she’d seen what she thought was a threat, she’d charged the weird walkers and begun slashing, though Ksmvr’s sword had had trouble biting into their hides. Then she’d slipped, realized the party was moving away, and nearly fallen racing back.
The walker-thing’s excrement was as slippery as oil! What had saved Seraphel, as she tried to get up, was her bare hands. She’d found purchase with them and clawed her away across the floor, ruining another dress. But almost being sucked into the terrifying void…
Vofea was good enough not to laugh at her after she’d run to help Seraphel up. Shamefaced, the [Princess] hadn’t said much, but she had realized something from her near-excrement-death.
“The water-stuff. Whatever it is, it let me keep a grip on the ground.”
“Ech, it does build up. See? It’s all over my fur. Beats blood, but it’s like being wet. I keep picking it off.”
Vofea indicated her fur, and the ‘water’ had clumped up like gel and matted on her fur. More finely than the blood, but Seraphel wondered what it was supposed to do.
Making it so the poo-slick didn’t stick to her seemed to be one use. She washed her dress off with the stuff, and then begged Vofea to teach her how to use Ksmvr’s sword. She had to be some use. The Satyr shrugged.
“I was more used to the sling, but fast as need to be—it’s just a firm grip. You’re no swordsmaster. Nor do they attack back. Just get in and stab.”
Seraphel feared she wouldn’t be strong or courageous enough to take a life, even unmolested. Then she thought of the dead [Sailors]. She licked her lips.
“Perhaps a dagger? An enchanted one?”
 
——
 
Wailer Frogs, a native hazard to Izril and Baleros. Their wails could shatter eardrums. In these tunnels?
They’d murder everything. Fortunately, two things occurred. One was that Menrise cast [Silence] which meant you just had a bunch of very loud frogs who could take huge bites out of you.
The second was that Seraphel found her nerve. How, she didn’t know, but in that desperate moment when she realized they might all be deaf or dead, she had an enchanted knife from Menrise and Cortese’s belts and was stabbing.
She popped the Wailer Frogs’ throats as they inflated like bubbles, then slashed their eyes, running in a trail of blood as Vofea swung both of Ksmvr’s swords. She didn’t laugh at Seraphel then.
It wasn’t a long fight by the party’s standards. Two ‘turns’…but to Seraphel, it felt like hours. When she was done, every part of her not covered in the weird ‘water-gel’ was soaked in red. Vofea blinked at her.
“How many frogs did yeh stab, Princess? Must’ve been at least forty.”
“I didn’t count. H-how many people are hurt?”
“Few bad. Those buggers don’t bite bad. Sit down.”
“No, no…let’s bandage them. And the blood, I’ll wash it off with the free water.”
‘Free water’ was her name for the jar’s contents. Seraphel used it to clean herself off, despite the weird film, because, well, water was a limited resource. She had not missed that provisions were already running low.
Indeed, the party began to eat the frogs after making a fire, she was relieved to see. The mechanical cooking of frog meat made her hesitate. Then her stomach rumbled, and she remembered Lord Cortese’s group giving her food.
Besides, frog legs were a delicacy in Desonis. 
…Yup. They tasted just like she remembered. Well, far worse without the spicing. Seraphel gagged a few bites down.
Vofea was impressed. She was having trouble with the foul taste as well.
“You eat frog legs, Princess?”
“Once. Shardele tricked me into thinking I had to when we visited Desonis. I asked for them specially, and the Sleeping Queen watched me eat eight.”
She’d puked into the wastebin after the banquet. Vofea grinned.
“Once, when I was small and new to the Lands of the Fae, I wandered into an old swamp. ‘Twould have been the end of any foolish child but for the Faerie King’s rules. No one to harm guests anymore. Well, some would—but not the lurker of this particular swamp. I was crying, waist-deep in the water with naught a notion of how to find land, nor sight of it, when the waters churned and she arose, foul as a bog witch’s nightmares, breath to kill a thousand flies. Shat myself, did I.”
“How horrible. How did you survive?”
Vofea scratched her neck, embarrassed.
“Eh…not from anything I did. Since she obeyed the Faerie King’s rules, she merely explained t’me what a fool I was. Then she hosted me ‘till I could navigate the swamps.”
“How kind of her then!”
“Well, yes and no. She fed me rotted fish and flies, and toads were the last of her finest fare. Just because I couldn’t be harmed doesn’t mean I couldnae be punished.”
Seraphel shuddered, and Vofea bit some more frog and shuddered too.
“This…is still somehow worse’n her cooking. At least she spiced hers. Ah, but she was a wonderful thing. Old as all are in that place.”
“Older than ten thousand years?”
By now, Vofea had confessed much of who she was, and even if Seraphel was highly skeptical about everything, she could raise an eyebrow and jest with her only sentient friend. Vofea snorted.
“Far older. None are born to the Faerie King’s lands now. Not since…the war. Kaelis, her name was. Loyal as they come, for all she’s a bogglewart swamp creature. Loyal enough to die.”
“Oh, she passed away? I’m sorry.”
“Nah. She came here. Her form’s changed, like Lady Shaestrel and the others, but death comes for us all. I wish she were here. She’d eat up them froggies like lunch. Then cook me some.”
Vofea grew sad, tracing her fingers along the ground. Seraphel swallowed her frog meat, then, after a moment, poured some of her ‘free water’ over the frog meat and took another bite. Vofea eyed her.
“Er, I’m not a great adventurer and whatnot. I’ve only survived the Crossroads of Izril.”
“Only?”
“—Yes, but I dunno if pouring mystery water over frog meat is wise. Then again, I ate pemmican nonstop on the way out of the Crossroads and shat the biggest log in creation after.”
Somehow, all of Seraphel’s adventures with Rabbiteater tended to head towards scatological discussions. She wondered if he had a cursed Skill or something. The [Princess] shrugged.
“It makes it taste better.”
“Issat so? Give some here then.”
 
——
 
After a few cycles of fighting and resting, Seraphel’s arms had stopped burning, and when she saw a threat…she attacked it. Not with skill or grace, mind. But with that desperation, knowing that every monster she did not kill would attack her friends.
She and Vofea felt like the only two waking people tending to an army of sleepwalkers. Accordingly, Seraphel was almost confident the two of them were actually friends.
She had never, ever, even in Noelictus, had to tell someone they had guts hanging off their back—let alone touched actual organs. At first, she was horrified, aghast, additional adjectives of trauma here.
Now, Seraphel just finger-combed Vofea’s fur if it was too matted with filth, and if Vofea pulled something out of her hair, Seraphel didn’t ask what it had been. She felt…tougher, or at least, more mentally numb to seeing blood. Certainly, the constant exertions had an impact on her body. Rabbiteater would have probably still called her weak, but merely walking no longer tired Seraphel.
She just wished she could wake someone up. She had thought, if anyone, Rabbiteater…but no, The Lonely Warrior kept marching along with Badarrow by his side. All of them were under the same spell.
Ksmvr was the only one of them that Vofea had hopes for, and she’d flit to him when they weren’t working, but Seraphel kept trying to wake Menrise or Cortese. She tried everything from foul-smelling liquids to talking to them to using her aura to try and push whatever effect was on them back. She even put her circlet on Cortese’s head—nothing.
It truly did seem like it was perspective or experience that let her and Vofea escape. One from her knowledge of the Lands of the Fae—Seraphel from her encounters with the Witch of Webs and her own long war against despair. Nothing else could break someone from the trance. Not pain nor auras nor even sound.
Seraphel knew that because at some point a little red…thing appeared and started following Lord Cortese around. It just flew through a wall after one of their battles and started buzzing at him. At first quietly, then with increasing noise. It would shrill so loudly Seraphel’s ears rang, stop for hours at a time, then buzz like a hive from hell.
“What is that?”
Vofea finally lost her temper and swatted at the bug after a long time of them hoping it would wake Lord Cortese. Seraphel tried to ‘kill’ the spell or whatever it was, but her enchanted daggers just passed through it.
“It must be a spell. A high-level one. It’s trying to reach Cortese.”
“Isn’t that bad, what with scrying spells showing where we are?”
“This is no ordinary scrying spell, believe me! And it is—so—annoying!”
Seraphel kept swatting until the dratted thing ceased to buzz. It seemed like whoever was on the other side had only the patience to annoy him for a few minutes at a time, but dead gods, the volume.
…Well, the mystery of Cortese’s mysterious ‘bug spell’ aside, Seraphel had little time to think of more than preparing for the next ‘encounter’ in the dreadful maze. Each new group of monsters meant her and Vofea racing forwards to try and lame or kill as many as possible to save the party from taking ‘damage’.
“I can’t believe none of you realize it’s such fakeness.”
Vofea panted as they were cleaning up after one fight. Seraphel was wiping blood off the daggers onto her riding dress.
“It feels much like a dream. You know, one you don’t realize you’re in? Only, at the same time, all makes sense. I was simply The Weeping Princess—only in my case, I hated it; I’d sworn to stop being so helpless. But I was more than myself, if that makes sense.”
“Oh, aye, it does. But how d’you reckon with that annoying narration giving experience and damage? Too much of a game, that.”
The [Princess] hesitated.
“…What narration? Experience? Damage? It seems to me as if we’re like marching pieces on some great board, like chess, only far more detailed. We swing swords or flail about as the ‘enemy’ comes out of the darkness. That is what I remember.”
A sea of figurines, all of whom resembled a [Princess] veiled in tears, marching forwards. All of them her, but no specific piece her body. A being that was made up of ideas of what she was, of her grief—not her memories or personality.
Vofea’s mouth opened.
“I, eh—nevermind.”
“You clearly saw something different. Tell me.”
“Oh, aye. But I, ah, I’ll explain as best I can, but it won’t make sense to yeh. That clears it up, though. Each to their own point of view.”
That was when it was easier. But there were moments when she wished she had never woken. That would have been so much—
Easier.
 
——
 
The Grim Knight lands a killing blow at last! He delivers 12 damage!
 
(The Hammering Brute is defeated! 333 EXP awarded! The Brute’s Club found!)
 
The Green Knight grins, then grimaces. He takes 2 poison damage. He tries to walk it off.
The Guilty Man is bleeding. He takes 14 damage. He decides to bandage himself.
 
“No. Nononono—Vofea! Vofea!”
They were trying. But the Trolls or whatever they’d been fighting had swung huge clubs covered in bits of metal. And they were out of potions.
Vofea was feeling at the Creler-bit wounds she’d bandaged.
“Ksmvr said to do this. They’re not getting better.”
“Vofea! It’s Revi! Come quickly! Hurry!”
The Satyr turned and ran. She saw Seraphel trying to hold onto half of Revi’s…face. Vofea halted, afraid the Stitch-woman was dead, but Seraphel panted at her.
“Get some thread and cloth. Hurry! She’s cloth. We might—might—”
They had to stitch her face closed as best they could. And she wasn’t the only one. Ser Thilowen’s armor was dented inwards, and one of his ears had been torn off his…
Seraphel walked up and down the lines, ignoring those tending to themselves. Counting the ones who’d fallen without a word. She came to a halt just once.
Bent down.
“Vofea? Do you think I should have stayed home?”
She was too tired to cry. The Satyr came over. When she saw what Seraphel was gazing at, she just sighed and hugged Seraphel.
“I wanted t’ do something important.”
“So did I. So did everyone. Help me…please.”
They dragged a body up onto the wagons. Then found Admiral Dakelos sitting, a leg broken, blank-faced. Seraphel hated Ailendamus. She would have rather died than leave him behind.
Onwards they marched.
 
——
 
At some point, Seraphel realized she had killed more creatures with her bare hands than she could count. She did not know if she was ‘good’ at it, but she did it quickly, and when the next group arrived, she killed them fast.
They were standing targets; her killing was no [Warrior]’s techniques but akin to a [Butcher] culling a herd, gruesome as it was. She cut throats and let the blood rush out and her victims never reacted. Or she did worse. Acts of violence she would never countenance except in this moment.
This time, Seraphel went for the eyes of the giant salamanders spitting globules of poison at the Calanferians. She only backed off if she saw Menrise about to cast a spell or Cortese’s group deploying the ship parts.
Nor was she wildly swinging. Seraphel would not become a [Warrior] for her actions here, she knew. Her method of dispatching monsters was expedient. Energy-saving.
She just knelt down on the back of each salamander’s head and let gravity shove the dagger blade through their heads. One after another. She could kill a dozen or more with each ‘action’.
She hoped they’d stop to eat these ones. It had been a while since she’d had food, and the party needed it. But then again, they were poisonous. Or she assumed it was poison. She’d wash all the open wounds with the free water as soon as…
The danger that Seraphel was not used to in these situations, that Rabbiteater, Cortese, or any seasoned veteran would have been used to, was developing tunnel vision. So singleminded was Seraphel on her current foe that it was only when the second foe crawled over her that she realized another group had entered the fray.
Guess who?
“No, no! Not again!”
Crelers. They ignored Seraphel, of course, ripping into the salamanders, but she screamed and tossed them off her as Vofea yelled.
“Seraphel, it’s a big swarm! Get back! I’m using a scroll! [Flamestrike]!”
Without hesitation, the Satyr unleashed the scrolls they’d grabbed for this reason. Seraphel ran back, then fired off one of her scrolls too. Flames baked the salamanders and Crelers alike—before a [Grand Lightning] spell blasted through them.
It kicked Seraphel off her feet, and she landed, dazed, but already getting up. She had to stop them. How many were there? There must have been another nest. Crelers were known to repopulate with great speed, and this place was a perfect spot for them because of how hard it would be for any force to kill them. 
She ran at the Crelers, stabbing desperately. She had to kneel down to stab them with the daggers. She should have had longer weapons, but Seraphel flung herself on them, flipping the Crelers to gouge out their insides. Blood on her hands.
Eight—nine—as many as she could before they attacked! Hurry, hurry—they were eating the salamanders, thank goodness. So she had an entire turn to kill as many as possible. Hurry!
 
——
 
(For some reason, the Ravening Beast has taken 162 damage. For some reason, the Venomous Crawler has taken 144 damage.)
The Lonely Warrior tilts his head before charging into battle. He feels like enemies have been taking random damage more and more. He thinks of an [Innkeeper], then attacks. He deals 77 damage!
 
(The Ravening Beast is consuming as much of the Venomous Crawler as it can. It’s carrying its prey. The Ravening Beast is attempting to flee!)
 
“Seraphel, they’re leaving! Seraphel, wait, come back! You’re too far away! Seraphel—!”
(The Ravening Beast escapes!)
 
——
 
Only when Seraphel saw the orange swarm pulling back and heard Vofea’s voice did she realize she’d erred in her zealous assault. Namely, because there was now a gap between the party and the Crelers. And as the Crelers began to retreat, carrying chunks of the slain salamanders—the light of their malice, red and dark, began to recede. And the green glow of safety and Rabbiteater’s group, nearest to hers—
The darkness yawned between her and safety. At least a hundred feet or more. Seraphel froze, orange blood stinging as it dripped from her arms and cheeks.
She’d never been this far from the party. Even twenty feet from the glow felt like she had been moments away from being disassembled. Could she make the run? She hesitated, and Vofea shrieked.
“Seraphel! Run!”
The [Princess] began to, but then felt the void ripping her mind up. She screamed, reversed, and then she was running to the only place of safety.
Namely: the Creler swarm. Seraphel chased after them, taking refuge in their red thoughts as Vofea screamed.
“Seraphel! Solstice, someone! Save her! Seraphel! Serapheeeeeeel!”
“Vofea! Tell them—”
Seraphel didn’t know what to say. Nor did she have time. The last thing she heard was Vofea’s anguished voice. Then?
Then she was in the company of Crelers.
 
——
 
As deaths went, this…this was a bad one. The [Princess] ran, leaving a trail of glowing orange ichor of their blood as she followed the Crelers. They scurried down the tunnels, but slowly, dragging their food with them. Every moment she expected the swarm—and they had to be at least two hundred strong after the spells she and Vofea had unleashed on them—to turn on her.
But the ‘rules’ of this place saved her. These Baby Crelers were bound by the same laws as she. They didn’t notice a single presence among them, at least, not at first. For her part, Seraphel was terrified.
She was dead. Unless, somehow, these Crelers went to attack her friends again, she was now stuck in their company or any group they ran into—and Crelers didn’t leave many survivors. Worse, she couldn’t even kill them or she’d extinguish the one light saving her.
Dead, dead, dead, dead—she ran awkwardly, panting, glad that Rabbiteater had tried to train her to some physical level. A stitch was eating into her side, but she dared not slacken the pace. That was how her disaster started.
It got worse. She didn’t know how the Crelers thought, not at first. But like the glow of her own party, their emotions and memories—such as they were—formed a viscous red overhead. And the more time she spent in it, the more she thought…
She could understand them.
 
——
 
(You swarm back through the tunnels, back to the Primary Nest, as directed. Rage begets your every movement. But the foe is not to be engaged. Two nests now lie silent. The last shall not fall. All must die—but in time.)
(These thoughts are beyond you. You only understand hunger, death, the will to kill all in the name of She Who Slumbers. But something else occurs to you.)
 
Swarm (^ detects something is off. A…presence. It is unwelcome. Unwanted. But unlocatable. Wrong, wrong. Wrongwrongwrong. Kill it. Prey, but where?
It must devour, but it cannot find it. Hunger. Kill. Grow. Hunger, kill, grow. HUNGER. KILL. GROW—
Then she is part of it. Swarm (^ recoils. A mind has entered theirs, one that shines with thoughts. Colors never dreamed of, bubbling through their singular color like agony.
Wondrous. Hateful. They scream. They would tear her apart, but there is no ‘her’. Just it.
Swarm (^ tries to devour itself. It deals 11 damage to itself, but the colors remain.
It hears the will from the Primary Nest. It must return. It scuttles onwards. Now it screams. Its colors are strong, but in front of the myriad, they are a contrast, dimmed by comparison. Something is trying to subsume their will.
 
(The Weeping Creler is howling agony as it returns to the Primary Nest. It rages against itself, but it cannot win. Not children. It drops its meal and meets Swarm f++e, Swarm %e, Swarm 9fe*. They back away from The Weeping Creler. It must be destroyed.)
(The Awakened enters the Primary Nest. It removes the taint from The Weeping Creler. Swarm (^ is freed!)
 
The Awakened orders Swarm (^ to kill themselves. They have been tainted.
Swarm (^ hesitates. It wishes to live.
 
(Swarm f++e, Swarm %e, and Swarm 9fe* attack the traitorous swarm. They deal 255 damage. Swarm (^ is destroyed. 455 experience awarded to Princess Seraphel.)
 
——
 
The last of the Baby Crelers died in moments. It was beyond fast. Three swarms of Crelers rolled over them, and Seraphel—
Seraphel was backed against a wall by the ‘Awakened’, the gestalt that had noticed her trying to take over the swarm’s mind and had ripped her out of it. The good news?
It wasn’t an Elder Creler. Which was excellent, really. Elder Crelers were kingdom-level threats. One had once assailed Noelictus, and the [King], royal army, and entire Hunter’s Guild, including Piortesenzth at the time, had been forced to fight it off in a desperate last-stand for the capital.
Mind you, he’d claimed he’d fought worse. But if you knew who Piortesenzth was, that still painted a horrific picture.
No, the ‘Awakened’ was just an aspirational name compared to the Baby and Juvenile Crelers in the other swarms. It was an Adult Creler. Easy. Simple! Ksmvr’s team had killed one, and so Seraphel was sure that he and Vofea could do it again if they got the chance. Adult Crelers were killed all the time, as she understood it. For any one team, they might be a problem, but for an army, even Calanfer’s weary force, she was sure an Adult Creler was a piece of cake.
She really, really hoped that was the case because otherwise, four Adult Crelers would tear anything in this place to pieces. But, well…
This was it. She was backed into a wall, breathing painfully—something was pressing against her chest. Not a claw or anything she could see. Something was lifting her up and had slammed her into the stone.
A mind. Their minds. She could actually hear their thoughts. It came from that hateful brain lodged in their massive bodies. Each Adult Creler was larger than a peasant’s cottage by far, almost centipede-like but rearing upwards. So a centaur-centipede, perhaps, with a massive maw that could spit projectiles, huge spiked legs, and bellies now armored and no longer weak to gutting from below like Juvenile and Baby Crelers.
Oh, and they had minds. They thought. Unlike the mindless rage of Baby Crelers, these four had detected her and were analyzing her. It was a vast, dark pulsing trying to crack her head open and rip out her thoughts like this damn dungeon, but even more insidious.
What protected Seraphel were two things: her aura, which she was using to push at the horrid thoughts, and her circlet. She could feel it activating.
Anti-telepathy wasn’t one of the functions she was familiar with it having, but it was as close to a Relic as Calanfer had for the royal family. The combined might of four Adult Crelers was burning it and Seraphel to the limit, though.
At last, the force on her slackened, and the Adult Creler gestalt let her go, and their bellies dimmed. She landed, gasping, and heard it thinking.
 
(Individual mind. Like others. Kill/devour/grow. Two nests lost. Primary in danger. Swarms kill threats. Now is the time. Kill all.)
 
It was thinking outside of the pool of thoughts above her! It seemed to take effort, but she did not like independent thinkers on the enemy side.
With that said, the Adult Crelers didn’t appear to have attained Vofea and Seraphel’s freedoms. The darker purple malevolence of its thoughts retreated reluctantly to let the red hatred of each swarm activate. They were eating their kin and the food they’d brought.
When The Awakened got a chance to act, it did by blasting the swarms. Each of the four Adult Crelers opened their maws, and Seraphel flinched as stone chips exploded upwards, and Baby Crelers died screaming.
Even a Juvenile Creler was turned into a mess of orange-and-black chitin. The Adult Crelers launched a volley, then projected their thoughts.
 
(Contaminated minds! Purge contamination.)
 
They did not like what she’d done to the first swarm. Seraphel crept left as the Adult Crelers froze up, grudgingly, and the swarms milled about. They began to hesitantly attack themselves, but realized the first and only problem of Creler physiology.
How did one kill one’s own number without eating them? All of Creler’s biology was designed to rip and devour whatever they latched onto. Also, who knew who had eaten what? In gestalt-form, the swarms had no individuality. The culling was therefore…messy, hesitant. The swarms didn’t want to kill themselves, but The Awakened commanded it.
That gave Seraphel plenty of time to analyze just how dead she was, and she took that time to do so. For one thing, she had gotten a firsthand view of a Creler nest from the inside, something few people ever experienced for more than milliseconds…alive.
Some [Monster Observer] would kill for this view. Seraphel? She just gazed around the room of pulsing, sickening orange light and began running along the outskirts of it. Then she began running over the Creler eggs.
Crunch, crunch, crunch. Well, they also squished horribly. Little pre-larval Crelers writhed and died. They would have attacked her except that this maze just ripped out their minds. The eggs were covering the floor, the far wall, the ceiling…the sight of so many made Seraphel literally sick to her stomach, but she had to find a way to hide or—or—
The second feature of the Creler nest was the chitin. It was the same color as the Crelers’ bodies. That black chitin, but rough. Built up with a product of their bile or something. It had sealed all entrances to the nest but one, and, she suspected, was harder than steel.
The swarms were by the entrance, and anyways, what could she do? Run? She’d be dead out there in a moment. So Seraphel waded through the eggs, trying to find something, anything.
The Crelers had made a kind of throne or central repository where she bet they put all food they hadn’t eaten; behind it, the eggs. The Awakened was in front of this repository, but by wading up through the eggs—and puking in her mouth twice—Seraphel could climb a staircase or whatever was buried under the eggs and gaze down into the center of the nest.
What she saw…did not make her happier. It turned out Crelers and ‘stored food’ was a bit of a misnomer.
Crelers didn’t store food. What they had, they ate. The only reason the swarms were bringing back food was for the Adult Crelers. What was in the center of their nest was…a fifth Adult Creler.
Only, this one was covered in a gelly orange-white sack and looked like the largest larvae in the world. It was half again as big as the other Adult Crelers and twitched sporadically as Seraphel stared down in horror at it.
This was an Elder Creler. In gestation.
“Eternal Throne and Hundred Heroes, Queen Marquin the Radiant, I have heard it said that you send greater challenges to those with the levels capable of dealing with them, but if that is so, why am I here?”
Seraphel had gone from ‘we will likely all die’ to ‘I am certainly going to die horribly’ to ‘it’s probably not going to be more painful but this is the worst death I can imagine’.
She’d already capped out the insanity of the situation. However, her time was running out: The Awakened had its turn, and it decided the problem of contamination was best solved by…death.
All four Adult Crelers began to fire their projectiles from their mouths nonstop, like thunder, scything down all three swarms. Which….was a plus?
I’ve killed over eight hundred Baby Crelers and at least several dozen Juvenile Crelers too! That had to be worth something, right?
The downside was that The Awakened now had complete economy of action since it was by itself. She expected it to come after her, but it had, seemingly, lost track of her. The four Adult Crelers scurried left and right, but didn’t check their eggs…presumably, they thought nothing would be that stupid. After clawing at the walls in frustration, Seraphel thought she might have a chance! Though if they left the room, she was also dead.
Then The Awakened seemed to decide that having killed all of their minions, they were now in trouble. So, all four Adult Crelers moved to the center of the rooms, and their bellies undulated. A bunch of tiny lights glowed from within their stomachs, and—what happened next, Ksmvr would have warned Seraphel about.
The Adult Crelers began to vomit up more Baby Crelers. Hundreds of them, which subdivided into new swarms.
Seraphel took a moment for her own personal action: vomiting the rest of her stomach straight onto the unborn Elder Creler below her. She gagged, washed her mouth out with the free water, and then spat.
“Th-that’s for Calanfer!”
Vomiting on an Elder Creler had to be worth at least a few points in Queen Marquin’s eyes, surely. Seraphel closed her eyes. There was nothing for it. She peeked down, then jumped off the ledge.
Straight onto the Elder Creler.
“Argh!”
The cocoon-membrane was harder than she thought. Seraphel twisted around in agony as it twitched, then scrambled down along its obscenely grotesque body. She was not mad. There was, in fact, a method to this.
Firstly—The Awakened. The Adult Crelers would search for her or order their swarms to. They might find her amongst the eggs, but would they crawl over this member of their species? Perhaps not. Second, Seraphel had seen something it was curled around. Something that glittered and made her think that Crelers operated in the best traditions of Humans, many monsters, and magpies.
Third? If there were any way in the world to hurt it, she was going to try. The gestating Elder Creler affronted something truly primal in Seraphel’s being. She understood why even rabbits or peaceful animals fought Crelers. This thing radiated a hatred of the world, and the world loathed it right back.
Neither one of us shall allow the other to live. If I’m to die down here, I might as well…Seraphel viciously stabbed a red eye staring without a pupil though the layers of gel. She cut through the membrane in a few stabs, and then hit the eye.
Crack. After the third stab, Seraphel heard a cracking sound and raised Menrise’s dagger. The enchanted blade had snapped right off at the tip. She swallowed.
“Magical resistance. Right.”
There went killing it. Seraphel gave it a kick anyways, then slid along its cocoon towards what it was curled around. In the background, she could hear-think The Awakened giving directions to the swarm.
 
(Slay the intruders. Find the contamination. Destroy it.)
 
What felt like…one swarm was going out on an attack mission. Two began scuttling around the walls. Seraphel glanced up and turned dead white.
They were coming over the ceiling. Probing every inch of the room except for right here. She crawled forwards and finally arrived at a spot that wasn’t Elder Creler. She reached down, grunted, and sighed.
“…This isn’t even a real pearl.”
Seraphel the [Entomologist] had just discovered a truth about Crelers unknown to the world. That they hoarded treasure or inedible valuables from their enemies? Known. A wise move to deny other beings magical assets. Very common across all species, really. That they couldn’t discern real gemstones from fake? That was news.
The Elder Creler was curled around a literal mound of treasure like some Dragon of old. Or perhaps Wyrm…the Elder Creler was elongating, its body changing in ways Seraphel didn’t want to look too closely at, but those eyes were going to be on its sides and underbelly too. Red and horrible. A city-eater. She began tossing things over her shoulder.
Hands with rings still attached to them. Pieces of gold, ruined armbands with bitemarks still visible on them, even a shield sadly scarred by Creler venom.
All of it non-valuable. Seraphel’s one ability was to tell the worth of something. A [Princess] did handle more money than most people would in their lifetimes. She was searching, searching for something she could use. Like, say, a handy Scroll of Greater Teleportation just lying there.
It had worked for Ksmvr, apparently. Unfortunately…Seraphel realized that real some of the loot here was, none of it appeared magical to her eyes. And she could cast [Detect Magic]!
“What in the world? Some of this should be magical. It’s high enough quality. But it’s dead. Dead, dead, dead.”
Some of these gemstones were so pure, so cleanly cut that she would have taken them if she weren’t about to die. She found a ruby half the size of her head without a single flaw in the entire gem matrix!
Even in Salazsar, this would be worth a fortune! It was an [Enchanter]’s wet dream…and it was devoid of magic. She hucked it at the Elder Creler’s nearest eye and winced as it bounced over its body and hit the ground.
The crack of that gem shattering probably would have given a [Gemcutter] a heart attack. But it was magically dead. So was the scarred shield, this ring, and they looked—
When the shield soared like a frisbee past the Elder Creler’s body, something peculiar happened. It suddenly ignited in flames! Blue fire coated it, and it landed, burning. Several Baby Crelers scrambled away in a panic.
“Huh?”
Seraphel poked her head up. She stared at the shield, which suddenly was very magical to her eyes, then at the Elder Creler.
“Oh, it’s eating magic. Is that how Elder Crelers evolve?”
Not just spell resistance, but mana absorption. How was a [Mage] supposed to even fight an Elder Creler? The damaged shield was making an uneven sputtering sound as the flames crackled, and Seraphel ducked down as The Awakened noticed the commotion and came over. The Adult Crelers didn’t really have manipulable digits, so one pawed awkwardly at the tiny shield relative to it. Then they tried to get Baby Crelers to pick it up, but that just set the little ones on fire. Eventually, one of the Adult Crelers stomped right on the shield…and it exploded.
When Seraphel’s ears stopped ringing, she poked her head over The Awakened Creler’s cocoon and saw it was peppered with bits of chitin. The Adult Creler was now missing half of that particular leg and was not too happy about it.
Another victory for Seraphel the Cursed! She almost laughed, but ducked down as the unhappy Adult Crelers thundered around, clearly thinking that she’d done that and looking for her. And again, they didn’t really think to check the Elder Creler because who would be right there?
Quietly as she could, Seraphel changed her identification process. Now she had a good idea that everything here might be magical, but was being leeched of power, she had to select the most valuable-looking items and move away from the Elder Creler to appraise them. Oh, and if she carried too many magical items, the interference would cause a magical chain-reaction and potentially destroy this entire nest.
With that in mind, Seraphel stuffed all the most valuable items into her dress she could, on the principle that at least it’d be quick and do more good than her being eaten, and began to climb out of the cocoon. She was trying to find purchase on the slippery, resinous jelly when she noticed one of the red eyes on the Elder Creler’s sides had developed…a dot.
A purple dot. You might think it was black, but no. Purple. It moved about, bouncing oddly as she froze, then fixed on her. Then it pulsed…and six more dots floated into place, and all pointed at her. They were connected by sinuous nerve cords as something swam inside of the Creler’s eye socket and focused on her.
The unborn Elder Creler had noticed the disturbance. And its brain had just found her. Seraphel heard a voice in her head. It projected one idea beyond words into her mind, a concept flashing from its brain to hers. The Elder Creler said:
 
(DISGUSTING.)
 
Seraphel had never been more insulted in her life. She began climbing faster as the brain inside the Elder Creler’s larval form flitted to another eye. It was pulsing now, faster.
 
(INTRUDER. SLAY IT. DISRUPTION OF THE EVOLUTION. SLAY IT, WORTHLESS FOOLS.)
 
That wasn’t what it ‘said’, of course. It was thought-ideas, concepts. It mostly expressed that the Crelers in the nest, Adults included, were worthless, ineffective spawn that had less utility than Creler excrement. But it did also give the other Crelers exact coordinates on Seraphel’s location.
She cleared the Elder Creler’s cocoon as all the other Crelers froze in disbelief. They focused on Seraphel as she splatted on the ground and then got up, body in agony. She began to run, grateful for the stupid gel that gave her traction on the ichor-slick floors.
Crelers staring in disbelief. The Elder Creler’s wrath over the disgusting intruder that had sullied its pristine body and nest roaring in her ears. Seraphel couldn’t help it. The artifacts she’d looted were beginning to vibrate as they all regained what magic they had left and began to interfere with each other. She turned and shouted over her shoulder.
“Disgusting? I don’t want to hear that word from a half-baked maggot that can’t even control a single enchanted labyrinth with an entire army of Crelers! I’ve known Sariant Lambs more sinister than you!”
In her final moments, Seraphel the Sharptongued, devoid of fighting ability, magical acumen, or great strategic insights used the only Skills she had.
[Dizzying Rebuke]. And [Royal Rebuke].
Rather to her surprise—the watching brain recoiled as her Skills activated. The mental pulse of pain sent the entire nest into a confused frenzy. Seraphel ran for the exit. Her dress was vibrating—she tossed rings and amulets over her shoulders until she felt the warning signs of interference stop. Then, as one of the Adult Crelers opened its maw, the artifacts exp—
 
——
 
(Newborn Swarm thi! takes 44 damage. Newborn Swarm 88v takes 101…for some reason.)
(The destruction to Primary Nest is extensive. The Elder has taken no damage but it is hurt. The Elder is raging. The Elder is afraid.)
 
The Elder orders the swarms to find the intruder. 
Newborn Swarm thi! thoroughly investigates Primary Nest. It finds nothing but rubble and a cocoon. Newborn Swarm thi! takes 2 damage while investigating the cocoon for some reason.
Newborn Swarm 88v investigates the area outside of the Primary Nest. It finds only rubble.
The Elder is thinking. ‘If it is not in the nest, it cannot survive.’ The problem has been dealt with. It orders Newborn Swarm 88v to begin repairs. Newborn Swarm thi! will attack and kill all intruders.
 
(The air is laden with smoke and debris, and a foreign will is furious, stymied. This has been an unprecedented setback. Enraging. The intruders must all die for this affront. The Elder will begin a slaughter. There are three groups of intruders. Slay them all. Slay them all.)
 
 
——
 
He could hear it. All of it. Thousands of minds screaming everything they were up into the sky, like other species’ children. Unable to regulate their volume, mixing and merging in a terrifying, beautiful miasma. Creating something…new. Something he had felt once before.
A Unitasis Network, but wrong. One where you lost yourself; instead of a new being thinking with a thousand minds, it was limited, all that information and perspective condensed around a single entity, like Rabbiteater. And he was trapped too. His ‘voice’ was so loud it drew them to him, as if he exerted a magnetic force, but he was just as trapped.
They were all trapped down here. Even the Antinium. But he had been made for something like this.
So he drifted. Just like at Albez. In and out. It was like he was newly made again, and the Free Queen was listing all the ways she had failed him. Failed to make him perfect.
If I possessed one whit of the abilities of a true Shaper Queen, you would exceed any dark dreams of Drakes. Instead, you are a superior mind held back by every inch of your form, as Klbkchhezeim. Thus I name you Ksmvr; your body is ill-made, but you are needed as a last resort. Remember this. Even ill-made, you are Antinium. The memory of mastery must serve.
Ksmvr drifted. When he woke, when he returned to Izril, Liscor, and that Hive, he swore he would tell the Free Queen her memory of mastery had been enough. Enough…to at least see both worlds.
 
(The party is lost. An unknown amount of time has passed since your entry into the maze. The Mysterious Watcher’s guidance has led you here, but the paths begin to split. Did they lead you astray? There is a three-way fork. Which way do you go?)
The Weeping Princess is undecided. She has lost her course. She turns to the little Grim Knight figurine for guidance. 
It does not know and does not respond.
The Guilty Man is paralyzed by another choice. A little red firefly follows him, but he ignores it.
The Angry Woman chooses left.
The Lonely Warrior closes his eyes and spins in a circle. He chooses left as well.
 
Leftwards, then. Ksmvr felt the group moving, felt himself moving. He was the Grim Knight. He was Ksmvr, bumping along in the wagon, tied up for his own safety.
Drifting…
He fought for lucidity. Fought to hear the low voice, the only voice of sanity in this madness. Had there been two? He didn’t…know.
“Wrong way. Wrong way, it’s the…I can’t see shite, but I can see that!”
Vofea. Rookie. Not to die. The only person who…Ksmvr’s mandibles opened.
“Vofea.”
She heard him in that silence broken only by the creak of wagon wheels, the jangle of armor, and the footfalls of the masses. She ran back.
“Ksmvr, you’re back! Seraphel. I lost Seraphel. But she’s not dead. I didn’t see her death. She might be dead, but I don’t see anything.”
The Satyr was bloody, exhausted. He should be fighting, not her. The Antinium wanted to stand, but the grey was pulling him up.
“Good rookie. Sometimes they die. Keep yourself alive.”
“She’s a [Princess], though.”
“Crossbow Stan was a good man. Can’t stop Crelers. What…what way is wrong?”
He fought to get the words out; the memory of the Bloodfields was crowding him, pulling out of him and floating upwards. Vofea cocked her head, then replied swiftly.
“Nothing future-sighted. Just obvious sight. Look—eh, you can’t. Here, see?”
She pushed him across the wagon, rolling him until his head lolled on the ground. Ksmvr stared at the stupid, ceaseless tunnel of grey lit by the light of emotions, and then he did see. Though it was embarrassing how long it took.
“No…tracks.”
Simple deduction, really. Vofea nodded. There was some dust and moss here—the way they were going didn’t bear any signs of mass transit. Those…Lizardpeople would have exited this maze by another route.
“If we run into more monsters…”
“Keep fighting. Use…potions…”
“We’re out of healing potions.”
Dire and direrer. Ksmvr struggled.
“Alchemy. Potions of Blast. Bag of holding, labeled. Put together and explode. Find more. Quartermaster.”
She understood and rummaged in his bag of holding. Ksmvr wanted to add, ‘get clear of the blast’, but he had to trust her. Had to do something.
“Seraphel.”
“She’s gone, Ksmvr. But that isn’t all. There’s more here.”
His head lolling; he was losing control. No, nonono! He had to find a way for Vofea to get them back on track! They wouldn’t survive getting lost further! But also…drool was dripping from Ksmvr’s mandibles. His mind scattering. He couldn’t best that pull yanking him back upwards into Ser Thilowen’s amalgamation.
Not him. Not Revi. Not even a Goblin Lord. This place had rules. Strange ones, but they intersected with classes. Cortese trumped Revi’s guilt. There was a reason Menrise, Cortese, Rabbiteater and Seraphel had all ‘absorbed’ the others. Noble classes. Hierarchy. And more—he slurred.
“Yes. Thissssss…place is old. Older than Antinium.”
“I know. It ain’t rotted, but it smells of age.”
“Older than their levels.”
Vofea’s hands slipped as she dragged him back upright and made him comfortable.
“You’re sure?”
Ksmvr was drifting off, but he felt it. He whispered as he fell upwards, but down was where terrors awaited.
“They built this place out of Seamwalkers. When they were…before they had levels. An experiment. Does every species experiment…? Lost. I have to—”
The party was marching down the tunnel. What could he tell Vofea? What could he say? The Antinium saw her touching his hands.
“You rest now. I’ll, eh, figure out where more of them potions are hiding. Blow up the next thing we meet.”
The Antinium vanished. All his will, his determination, his desperate need to protect—he was gone.
 
The Grim Knight remains. A little toy riding in The Weeping Princess’ dress. 
 
No matter how loud a single soul shouted—none of them understood this. None of them had been here before. But they were learning. Even if they couldn’t escape.
 
The Angry Woman is harboring her mana. She readies a barrier spell. She feels as though that’s essential.
The Guilty Man is checking for traps. 
The Lonely Warrior eats some moss.
The Weeping Princess feels like she’s lost something. She keeps looking over her shoulder, but she doesn’t know where it is.
 
Suddenly, The Grim Knight toy comes to life. He gazes down at the ground, and an idea strikes him. He tugs The Weeping Princess’ dress.
She looks down and doesn’t understand what she’s seeing.
The Guilty Man is confused. He swats at the red bug flying around him. He doesn’t have time for it now.
A spell is cast. [Detect Magic]…but The Angry Woman finds nothing out of the ordinary.
Wait…the ground? The Lonely Warrior gets down on one knee and realizes there are no tracks. Are they going the wrong way?
It was just a thought. As the party deliberates, The Grim Knight smiles in relief. He doesn’t know why, only that it makes him feel better.
 
——
 
Vofea gazed around as the ceaseless march halted. She peered at the line of kneeling figures inspecting the ground. Then at Ksmvr. The Satyr glanced up at the grey cloud as it turned, and the party reversed.
She hugged him hard. Then began tying Potions of Blast together with a piece of twine. By the time she was done, she had a satchel of twenty potions in a sack. She reckoned if she whirled it around, she could throw them just far enough not to kill herself. She’d find out.
They were fighting, adventurers and, she hoped, the Princess too. What was clear to Vofea, as she sniffed the air and cupped one ear, was also that they were not alone.
There was another group in the tunnels. More monsters? Or someone else?
 
——
 
One of her teeth was broken. Her mother was going to be so unhappy with her.
The [Princess] was lost in the darkness. Something was pulling at her. Something else was crushing her. Her mind and body—being torn apart.
But she was giggling. Laughing in delight at the damage she’d caused in no time at all. Impossible luck. A charmed life, but not the way you thought. It was always like that.
The Elder Creler was just another one of her victims. Another suitor…they all died. She killed them all. Her curse couldn’t be stopped, even by Rhir’s nightmares.
So weak. From disaster to disaster she flitted. She really was…cursed.
Then the yawning vortex was dragging her up, trying to divide her being into pieces that would be torn across this maze. Processed and rendered down, like—like—food.
She was terribly afraid; the faint protections on her skin were fading. The bubble was bursting. An ancient force snatched her up, beginning to unmake her with uncaring force as her pain-shocked mind lost touch with reality. Her grip loosened.
Then she was flying into the void, and vast limbs of a being too alien for comprehension were reaching for her. They closed around her soul—
And halted. A hand grasped Seraphel first. A presence infinitely more vast and complex. An unknowable sovereign.
The creation of Gods reached down and touched Seraphel, as it always did. Bringing gifts. It spoke as it held the maze’s power back effortlessly.
 
[Class Change: Deathtouch Princess → Cursed Princess Class!]
[Cursed Princess Level 32!]
[Skill – Resistance: Curses Obtained!]
[Skill – Inflict Curse: Self Obtained!]
[Curse – The Synectic Haze Obtained!]
[Curse – Helpful Servant’s Smile Obtained!]
[Curse – Stinging Warts Obtained!]
[Skill – Transfer Afflictions (Self) Obtained!]
[Skill – Share Curse (Mass) Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Dizzying Rebuke → Hexer’s Rebuke!]
 
Then it let her go, and she dropped back into her body as the maze tried to drag her soul out. But it couldn’t…not quite. She was giggling again.
I really am…
 
——
 
Seraphel opened her eyes, and her mouth was bloody. She was in agony. Something was crushing her head. She groaned and tried to move; stones cascaded down, and she realized she was upside-down and buried.
The tunnel. It had collapsed on—Seraphel shoved, weakly, and the rocks cut into her arms as she rose.
“I’m alive?”
It was almost perfectly dark. Only the faintest red glow kept her from being in pitch blackness; the Crelers were gone. Their nest sat across from where Seraphel had been tossed by the magical explosions. A faint orange light emerged from the spiked nest. But there was nothing around her.
I should be dead. She remembered her levels, of course. But even then…was [Resistance: Curse] enough to keep her alive? For that matter, how had the magical explosion not killed her? One did not simply walk away from explosions of that caliber. If they had wounded the Adult Crelers, they should have vaporized her.
Seraphel spat blood as her head finally broke into the open air. She spat something else out—a bit of red ivory. Her mouth was still cut up, and she gasped as she finally righted herself. Then, and only then, did she see what had actually saved her life.
“Oh. My. So that’s what it does?”
When she looked down at her body, the stone dust slid off that familiar filmy membrane from her Bottle of Water. Only, it had markedly changed from the translucent stuff she remembered.
It…was blackened, ablated, and flaking off along her back. She touched it, and some of the gel fell to the ground.
“Did it absorb the magic? But how…?”
It must absorb mana. But that didn’t explain the other thing she was seeing. Where the fine layer of gel wasn’t blackened, there was that pale, familiar red glow. Coming from under her skin.
The Creler’s rage and malice. The light of it was…shining from her body. It made her actually fairly nauseous, and her own hatred bubbled up, all her dark urges and repressed desires to kill or hurt—but it was also shielding her from being sucked into the void, so she kept it.
“It’s keeping the light in. It’s some kind of magic-absorbing water. Like a—a—a shield?”
She was no [Mage]. But it seemed to her this water had incredible properties to retain something. Rather like a bubble. It clearly wasn’t all powerful since the magical blast had shredded through it, but if it came from…
She felt the red light vanishing, and suddenly Seraphel was scrambling for the Bottle of Water again. She poured the liquid over her back, re-coating herself, and felt more stable.
Yes, it’s like I’ve waterproofed myself in oil or whatnot. Like someone treating a bit of leather in case it rains! That made the most sense to her. If ordinary men and women had such tools, why would a [Mage] not have the same? The only question to her was why some random person would have such a tool on them. An adventurer, perhaps?
As the [Princess] wobbled her way to her feet and began stumbling—away from the Crelers’ nest—her mind flitted to where this had been found. In the nest of Crelers. Of course. If someone had known what this dreadful place was like, this was the tool to allow you to traverse this place!
And it probably worked quite well unless you ran into Crelers. Seraphel kept stumbling forwards, then realized she had no idea where this tunnel led. She almost went back, but one look at the faint orange glow behind her and—
“No. I rather think I’ve pushed all my luck with Crelers.”
Especially the Elder Creler. Best if they thought she was dead. She could move around now, even if it felt very precarious despite her magical item and new Skills. Still, Seraphel had a chance.
Find Vofea. Find the party! Live! She truly thought she’d been dead. So Seraphel began walking. After a few minutes, her breathing calmed, and she spat more blood from her mouth, but was relieved the blood flow was slowing. Then she licked her lips.
She was hungry. Hurt. And thirsty.
She took a long sip from the Bottle of Probably Not Water.
It hadn’t killed her yet.
 
——
 
At least she had a few of the objects she’d stolen from the Elder Creler. Mostly small ones. Adventurers’ gear, Seraphel suspected. It came in handy as she walked.
This damn place was so vast she wasn’t getting anywhere any time soon. To take her mind off her injuries, she inspected what she had.
Now, of course, she knew better than to try on magical mystery items due to the danger and possibilities of being cursed.
…But as a [Cursed Princess], Seraphel decided to just go for it. She wanted to laugh hysterically. [Cursed Princess]. She actually was one. Had her wish been granted? Or her nightmare. Of all the things…!
I would have taken a sword Skill or something to kill the monsters with! Instead—curses? Is this all I’m good for?
She railed against whatever force she’d sensed that had granted her this class. She would rather be an Aielef than a Seraphel! Rather be a warrior than a [Princess]. She just…wasn’t allowed to use levels to change who she was, she supposed.
Curses befit a woman like her, whose great claim to fame was enduring trials. So, rather heedless of the risks, Seraphel began trying on objects.
 
——
 
Rather ironically, Seraphel ran into an actual cursed item on her sixth try. She had only a moment’s warning, a sense of wrongness, when her circlet made an alarming bzrat! sound and the gold ring began to heat up.
It was white-hot in moments. So hot it would have probably seared through skin and bone as the frantic looter tried to take it off. Thanks to Seraphel’s new Skill, it was probably only half that hot.
Enough, then, to scorch her flesh bloody red and leave it steaming as she finally tore it off her finger and hurled it away, then collapsed, sobbing and cradling her hand. That was when Seraphel decided to stop trying on the items in case another was even worse.
She sorted the few items she’d identified and put the others in her bag of holding. Then she went over to stomp on the cursed ring a few times and then shove it into her bag of holding.
Seraphel doubted its real function was just to burn someone’s finger off. Most ‘cursed’ artifacts fell into two camps. Either they were just meant to kill you horrifically or you were running afoul of a security effect. It was possible this ring had a lot of value, but she resolved not to so much as touch it until a proper [Mage] could inspect it. What she had found was enough.
It did indeed feel like adventurers’ gear. Of the six objects she’d appraised before nearly losing a finger, two of them were related to travel, which was exactly what Seraphel needed. She even knew what one did, because someone had been oh so kind to future wearers and written the effect on the inside of the ring.
“‘Ring of Quickstride’, oh, you beautiful [Enchanter]. I’d kiss you, but that would probably curse you for life.”
Also, they were probably dead. In which case, Seraphel was open to the kiss if they weren’t the rotting sort of dead. As soon as she popped it on her finger, she felt like each step took her about a fifth further than before.
It was an eerie feeling, actually. Like how you felt when you suddenly elongated your stride. Seraphel almost thought she’d fall over until she got used to it.
Now, a 20% increase in stride length might not have seemed like much, but she’d take it. The morale effect alone increased the [Princess]’ pace noticeably, so it was like she’d doubled her speed. The second item was of more dubious worth, but it fascinated her.
It was an amulet shaped like a cage. When Seraphel opened the little cage doors, a tiny golden bird appeared. It would dart out in the direction she aimed it, then come flitting back, incredibly fast, and flash something at her.
A number. Only, er…she had no idea what number it was. The writing was not familiar to her, and she instantly suspected another species’ language.
“It can’t be Drakish.”
Seraphel had studied the Walled Cities’ language as part of her education—just enough to use their alphabet with help. She squinted at the little runes.
“They’re so…curvy. It’s not Drathian or the House of Minos’ numeral system…”
Could it be Selphid…ese? Did they have a written language? Or maybe…Gnollish? Of the written languages of the world, that last one tickled Seraphel’s fancy. There was a certain animalistic quality to the numbers. They were simple, but she imagined that one might be…a leaping trout? Or that a gazelle bounding along or something.
Seraphel was convinced this was old Gnollish and wondered how old this artifact was. Deciphering which numbers were which was fairly simple. Regardless of their shapes, the creators were still operating on a very universal 0-9 numbering system.
What the bird was counting was how many steps it was in any direction it flew. If Seraphel unleashed it at a crossroads, like the first one she came to, two birds would hop out of the cage, each a different color, and come back. They would fly until they met an obstruction—or another fork.
A perfect tool for adventurers. For instance, Seraphel was told that the right path at the fork ran for 8,433 steps, or some number therein. Whereas the other bird gave her a complex set of symbols and then a very obvious three-path icon.
“So there’s a second crossroads only…2,560 steps away? Or is that 9,560? I hope it’s the former. Lead on, little bird!”
 
——
 
It was actually less than two thousand steps thanks to her ring, and Seraphel was very tickled to realize that whatever stride the bird was using wasn’t calibrated to her specifically. Maybe it was a unit of measurement? Very cheerfully, she fired three birds off at the crossroads, each one a different color.
Butter yellow, blueberry blue, and a raspberry red! She was sort of hungry. Seraphel sipped more of the Wardwater Liquid, as she had dubbed it, as she waited. She hoped it didn’t ward her stomach lining.
She was less happy with the results of this investigation. The yellow bird took the longest to return, and when it did, Seraphel’s heart sank.
 
Yellow Bird: 99,999 steps. 344 something red icons. 52,444 steps?
Blue Bird: 1,233 steps. Two-prong fork. 23 red icons. 23 blue icons? 877 steps.
Red Bird: 4,555 steps. Four-prong fork. No icons.
 
“Eternal Throne! I’m not a City Runner, let alone a Courier! I’ll die before I find anyone!”
And she had no idea where to go! Seraphel sank to her knees and put her head down before staring at the numbers again.
Focus, Seraphel du Marquin. Vofea needs your help! Rabbiteater, Cortese, and Menrise need you! 
The birds were telling her something. She gazed at the red icons and numbers and hazarded a guess. She spoke to the yellow bird displaying its numbers above its head. It even scratched at the side of its body with a tiny little clawed foot as it waited!
“My guess, you beautiful little thing, is that you’re informing me of—of monsters! That is surely what an ominous red color should mean for an adventuring sort. Thus, the second number must mean when you first spotted them. It could be you can do multiple groups…but in these tunnels, I rather imagine everything but me is clumped up, anyways.”
Yes, that made sense. Which meant to the left, down a black tunnel sloping downwards, there was not only over 100,000 feet of tunnel with no apparent breaks, but over three hundred monsters of some kind.
The Crelers? Seraphel thought that might line up with one of the new Baby Creler swarms. Going down that route would have killed her from the sheer distance if nothing else. Whereas…
“The middle path has a fork and twenty-three ‘monsters’…and twenty three non-monsters? How odd. It’s the shortest route, but…the rightmost path has nothing at all.”
And the most forks at that end. Ergo, Seraphel should head that way. Her plan, rough as it was, would be to use the birds to locate her friends. The moment they registered a group over a thousand strong, it surely had to be the Calanferian detachment.
Even assuming they’d somehow taken thousands more deaths than she thought, it would still be the largest group in this place by far, or so Seraphel assumed. She was rather pleased by all this deduction.
Here she was using her brain instead of reacting like she had been forced to do. She only wished she’d saved more lives.
“This is a dreadful feeling. No matter the fact that Vofea and I are the only sane ones, I feel like nothing I do is enough. I would give anything to be like Ser Rabbiteater, who can swing his axe and erase any foe! He surely never feels so helpless.”
She said that as she rested her feet in preparation for a 5,000 foot walk, then remembered what Rabbiteater had said during their trek through the jungle. He’d met Erin Solstice in some kind of…pavilion-thing? She had been dying, and all he’d been able to do was help bring her ‘out’.
The rest of the Ivory Four hadn’t understood what that meant, and Rabbiteater hadn’t exactly been clear on the details. But he had wept. Wept and been helpless.
“One supposes that one never truly feels in control. Well, drat.”
So much for her dreams of one day having that kind of control in her life. Seraphel blamed her parents. All pragmatism, zero idealism. It was a wonder she wasn’t completely insane.
Seraphel was getting up and idly fired the birds off—just to confirm things, really. She was searching around for a place to pee when the birds came back and reported in. Seraphel eyed them, trying to shoo them so they faced in the other direction.
“Shoo, shoo! Give me some space!”
 
Yellow Bird: 99,999 steps. 344 something red icons. 54,484 steps.
Blue Bird: 1,233 steps. Two-prong fork. 23 red icons. 23 blue icons. 321 steps.
Red Bird: 4,555 steps. Four-prong fork. No icons.
 
Wait. Her blood ran cold as one of the numbers changed alarmingly in her mind.
Three hundred and twenty-one steps away? The group down the middle path was coming her way at tremendous speed! It couldn’t have been more than a minute of rest! Seraphel sprang up.
“Oh no!”
She began running down the right path, fast as she could, but she fancied she could hear noises coming from behind her now. It hadn’t occurred to her that anyone would notice the obvious magical birds mapping the tunnels! If it were a group of people with their minds addled, they’d never take notice!
Wait, if it were a group like my people…Seraphel almost tripped, and then she did hear sounds. Familiar ones.
Clip-clop, clip-clop—the familiar sound of horse’s hooves! Amplified on stone, no less! Seraphel halted, panting. She heard voices, even, muted but low.
They’d reached the intersection where she was. But they had no idea she had gone right. Her pursuers had a three-way path to make, and there were only twenty-three of them. She doubted they’d want to split up that much in the darkness. If she moved fast, she might evade them, and if they did the obvious thing and went straight…they’d run smack bang into the Creler nest. She doubted the Elder Creler would allow them to survive that encounter, even gestating.
Seraphel had no idea what group this was, but as she listened, she thought she heard a faint sibilance to the words being barked in the common tongue. Which made her think Lizardfolk, but horses…?
Jungle Tails. We’re in their territory. Or perhaps Lizardfolk natives working for the Iron Vanguard? How are they not addled by this place? Seraphel’s racing mind came to an abrupt, immediate conclusion. There was only one thing to do.
 
——
 
The group of six mounted Nagas and seventeen Lizardfolk were exceptionally wary as they scanned the tunnel intersection where the magical birds had come from. One of the Nagas, a Lamia-type, light enough to ride horses if she curled her tail around the nervous beast’s belly, was shining a [Light] spell around.
“It’s an artifact, Lindclaw Leader. Subtle magic. I can’t detect the trail of it.”
“None of the natives use artifacts. They claim this Creler infestation has looted everything. Therefore, it is our quarry. Though how they escaped the mindnet effect I wish to know. [Hunters], take three and scout each tunnel. Go only a thousand paces.”
The Naga leading the group was the smallest of all the Naga types, and a rare one. An Oricaz-type—he was little bigger than the average Lizardman, but his long, fanged teeth and envenomed claws would kill in moments. However, he was bipedal and could ride a horse. In many ways, he did resemble Lizardmen, just with a prouder neck crest, stronger form. Deadlier glint in his eyes.
His was one of three teams investigating this maze; there weren’t enough wards for more. Just this many was more than the Iron Vanguard could boast. Well, the thickheads had been smart enough to camp outside the ruins. They were being driven off, but these Calanferians…
The Lindclaw Leader was on high alert as he sniffed the air.
“There’s a warmblood scent on the rightmost tunnel. Focus there. Though there’s something ahead…”
“D’you want us to check the other two tunnels anyways, Naga?”
“Silence.”
He snapped at the Lizardfolk. They were good warriors, the best non-Nagas he could find, but they prattled. The Oricaz sniffed again—then nearly jumped off his horse when he heard a voice calling out!
“Oh, I say! Are those horses I hear? Jolly good! I was getting quite worried I’d never find my way out of here! My feet are in an agony! Eternal Throne and Hundred Heroes—”
A woman appeared out of the darkness. She looked dreadful. An expensive riding dress was blackened down her back, and she had blood dried down her chin, and her hair was covered in blood and grime…but there was still a certain air of superiority she carried. Not to mention her attitude. She came into the light as every bow and wand rose, then flung a hand up.
“Rescuers! At last!”
She strode forwards as the surprised Lizardfolk [Leader] barked.
“Halt! Wait, is that the [Princess]?”
He couldn’t believe his luck. How in the name of the temples was she here? And not…dead? She should be a lifeless husk! Royal class? Was this an ambush?
However, the [Princess] just strode forwards, as if she couldn’t see the bows and wands, and flung herself across one of the [Hunters]’ saddles.
“At last! We were shipwrecked at sea, then we had to march, march through the jungles for days! With mosquitos! And no one to draw a bath for me each night! Then we had to march into this dreadful pit, and everyone stopped talking to me! You, my good woman, get off this horse this instant! I shall do without a carriage for now, but I insist upon a tent, bath, pleasant conversation, and some fine vittles. Eternal Throne of Calanfer bless you all!”
She blew a kiss at one of the Lizardwomen, whose jaw was hanging open. Seraphel beamed around with such a convincing [False Smile] that the Oricaz [Leader] was swayed.
“Er—that’s her, Lindclaw Leader. What do we do?”
The Lamia [Magus] whispered, and the Oricaz snapped back.
“Well, capture her, obviously! This is perfect! You, er, [Princess]. You are now a prisoner of the Jungle Tails company. An honored guest, rather. We’ll bring you back to our camps. Where’s your people?”
It occurred to him to spin it in a way she’d understand. Seraphel blinked up at him with astonishingly blue eyes and then exhaled.
“Well, of course I’m your prisoner! I should rather insist on it! And to be treated like a [Princess]. Very good, yes, yes, I surrender and all that. Please take me back to civilization at once! I don’t know where the rest of the blasted army is. They wandered off, and I woke up by myself! My good woman, did you hear me? I require this horse! Off! Off, I say!”
“Is she…is that really a [Princess]?”
One of the other Nagas muttered as they watched Princess Seraphel haranguing one of the [Hunters]. The Lindclaw Leader was smiling.
“I’ve heard they’re like this. You! Off the mount. Ride double with someone else. Your Highness, I am Lindclaw Leader Hexore. I shall treat you with utmost respect and ensure your comfort until you are able to meet with our Dragonfire General, but I must ask you keep quiet and obey orders. This is a dangerous place. A death-zone.”
“Oh, I am charmed, Lord Hexore! I rather did fear I would expire in this dreadful place.”
Seraphel mounted the horse clumsily, and the Lizardfolk [Hunter] slid off her mount. She scurried over to Hexore and tugged at his tail.
“Sir, sir…”
“How did you survive? With respect, this place is known to kill anyone unprepared. We have very specific wards against it, but anyone surviving here is frankly incredible.”
Seraphel waved at the tiara on her head.
“I imagine it’s my royal artifact. Or my aura? I’m rather not sure which. Should I take it off just to see?”
“No!”
They all shouted at her, and she was so offended she harrumphed. Hexore gave orders.
“We’re turning around. We have more than enough to satisfy the [General].”
And it gets us out of this damn hellhole. Let the other teams find the Calanferians. We could just wait for them to pop out if they even survive this place. He was excited and let the Lizardfolk [Hunter] cling to his saddle. Only when they were moving back did he hiss at her.
“Shut up. What is it?”
Lizardfolk pestered Nagas. Nagas bossed Lizardfolk. Eventually, the right Lizardfolk became Nagas. Hexore remembered being a bumbling Lizardman in his youth, and he tried to be the model that he was supposed to be, but dead gods they could get annoying.
Still, the [Huntress] was a crack shot, and she’d done six expeditions into this place before. She was a native, one of the real jungletails, not just the name of their company. She was staring at Seraphel hard as the others asked her about how many Calanferians were left and where she’d been.
“Sir, there’s no way that woman survived the Mindscape Ruins by herself even a day like that!”
“I agree. She must have wandered over here and gotten lucky. Another hour and she’d probably have tripped and broken her own neck.”
Hexore grinned, but the [Huntress] insisted.
“No, Naga! I mean—she can’t be that incompetent. This is deep in the ruins. We only came this far to scout for the Crelers. And remember those magical scout-birds? I think she’s cleverer than she appears.”
That made Hexore give Seraphel a second appraisal. She was riding poorly, scarfing down food one of the others had given her, and he couldn’t believe she’d survive in this place, it was true. He hesitated, then narrowed his eyes.
“Princess! Do you happen to have any idea of our local whereabouts? How did you get this deep? Unless your Calanferian group is nearby—and we’ve found no trace of that—you’ve gone far too far.”
The [Princess] blinked at him.
“Oh, that? Well, I was searching for my people! As I said, I woke up one day and they’d run off! So I chose the nearest tunnel, and, well, I have an artifact. I kept following it, but I never found my people!”
How likely is that? Hexore eyed the [Huntress], and she bit her lip.
“Even if she was ignored by other groups…”
“But it’s plausible?”
A doubtful expression. Hexore scratched at his chin-sacs which produced a bit of venom. He spoke casually.
“You wouldn’t have happened to see any Crelers, [Princess]? My team is searching for a nest. We were told two were destroyed.”
One by Calanferians. But the [Princess] answered readily enough.
“Those dreadful things? Yes, the army fought them! Horrific!”
She shuddered, then pointed vaguely.
“But they ignored me, no doubt because of my royal heritage! I am descended from Marquin the Radiant, you know. They must have feared my bloodline. And then I ran into the largest one I’d ever seen back there! There’s an entire nest of them. Eggs, wall-to-wall. Dreadful! I wouldn’t have dreamed of eating one, even starving though I was!”
Hexore nearly whirled his horse around.
“There’s a Creler nest back there and you didn’t say? An Adult Creler?”
“My good man, my good man, do not raise your voice at me! I am a [Princess]! And no, it was no Adult Creler. It was bigger. I saw the Adult Crelers shamble off while I bravely hid. This one was nearly twice their size in some dreadful cocoon. I say, why are you all so pale?”
Elder Creler. Hexore’s blood ran cold. Well, colder. He twisted around and peered at the [Huntress], and her eyes were wide with fear.
We nearly walked into it. An entire nest of the things? We need to bring down every Naga above Level 40, regardless of the cost. If that thing wakes…
They might need to call a truce with the Iron Vanguard even. Some things went beyond mere war. Hexore’s mind raced, but now disbelief was fighting a two-pronged battle.
Either this [Princess] was dumb as a gemstone, which he’d believe, or this was an act, which…was actually less believable. The [Huntress] was whispering.
“Sir, how’d she survive meeting an Elder Creler?”
“Well, same rules apply to it as everything else. Shut up—Princess Seraphel, may I say you’re the most lucky Human I’ve ever met?”
I hope we ransom you for a fortune. The woman beamed at the Oricaz Naga.
“You may, Lord Hexore. And may I say that you are the most extraordinarily unique Naga I have ever met? I had no notion your species existed! And if you’re brave enough to be hunting Crelers in this death-zone? You must be…closer to your second evolution than any other Naga on Baleros!”
Hexore sat up in his saddle as every eye, Lizardfolk and Naga, turned to him, and he felt the jealousy of his peers, the envy of his lessers. That was a good compliment.
“I’m surprised you know about second evolutions, Princess. But if I could attain that…Oricaz usually are mistaken for Lizardfolk, you know.”
“Lord Hexore, how could one miss your raiment of scales? From your neck ruff to your rather magnificent physique—believe me, a [Princess] notices these things.”
He kept preening as he chuckled. The [Huntress] was eying Seraphel, but Hexore relaxed. This woman was utterly guileless, though she was good with her compliments. [A Free Compliment], even. She was no warrior or mage. She just had a few artifacts and a lot of royal luck. He told the [Huntress] to get off his saddle and pester one of her friends when they stopped. How much trouble could the [Princess] be, anyways?
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin was glad to know that egos were egos wherever you went. In fact, Nagas seemed rather susceptible to having theirs stroked.
They were definitely an upper class to Lizardfolk, so comparing them to nobles was a fair assessment. She observed how they bossed around the Lizardfolk, who were happy to be bossed by and large. But mostly—she was delighted to have a horse.
No more walking! The instant she’d concluded this group was likely after her, she’d decided to turn herself in. A horse would allow her to catch her friends more easily. Moreover, this group had food, maps, and a way to beat this damn mental trap!
But what were they doing to beat it? Wearing something? She saw a few magical items on the Nagas, but nothing the Lizardfolk carried matched. Some charm on their armor or whatnot? Seraphel peeked at them as she ate more food during a rest stop. They were heading out of the tunnels, towards the nearest exit, at great speed. According to Hexore, Jungle Tails had arrived to ‘arrest’ the Calanferians, and they were fighting the Iron Vanguard.
She didn’t believe that for a second. She suspected they wanted to kill anyone that wasn’t worth ransoming and use her as a political hostage. Especially since Niers Astoragon and the Forgotten Wing company were helping her group…she’d be a tool in the Jungle Tails’ war with him.
She had to get away, steal their wardstones, get to her group, and get them out of the ‘Mindscape Ruins’. A difficult task, but Seraphel du Marquin had to try. She’d already survived an Elder Creler! Now, what were they carrying?
“Looking for our wards?”
Seraphel jumped and realized someone was watching her. A Lizardwoman [Huntress], scales mottled like a swamp, not one color but shifting, barely four foot two, armed with a shortbow and spear. She was tiny! But she appeared tough, and she’d led this group down the tunnels.
And—she wasn’t nearly as relaxed as the rest of the others. Seraphel put on her best [False Smile].
“Merely wondering how one survives this dreadful place! Without even cooling spells!”
The Lizardwoman smiled. Then she flicked something up in one claw and showed it to Seraphel. It was a vial.
An empty vial. Seraphel’s heart sank.
“Not something you can steal, Princess. You might have the Lindclaw Leader fooled, but I’ve less trust you’re a fool.”
She leaned forwards, fixing Seraphel with a pointed stare. Rather than give the game away, Seraphel wrinkled her nose up.
“Lord Hexore! Lord Hexore! The hired help is harassing me! I do object!”
“Hunter!”
The Oricaz Naga bellowed, and the [Huntress] lost her confident smile. Seraphel held back a triumphant grin, which was just as well—the [Huntress] grabbed her arm, yanked Seraphel down, and then—tied her hands up!
“What? Unhand me, you brute! Lord Hexore!”
He strode over, then glared at the [Huntress] as she stepped back.
“Just a precaution, Lindclaw Leader. It’s not even chains, see? Just a [Tricksome Knot].”
Seraphel saw her hands were neatly webbed together with a very complicated knot sealing the deal. It was a tough twine too; she couldn’t wriggle her hands or get them free. Hexore whirled on the [Huntress].
“She’s a [Princess], you idiot! She doesn’t need to be shackled!”
Especially because she’s so useless! Unfortunately, the [Huntress] held her ground.
“Honored Naga, she might have more artifacts on her. Or her circlet might send [Messages]. We’ve no time to search her, and I suppose that’s improper. At least let us tie her up.”
“This is outrageous! How dare you accuse me of having utility!”
Seraphel spluttered, but the argument was a bit too reasonable. Hexore glanced at her, then rolled his eyes.
“She’ll fall off the horse without two hands to hold the reins!”
“Then I’ll ride for her.”
The [Huntress] smirked as Seraphel felt the trap she’d walked into close a bit more firmly around her. The Lizardwoman winked as Hexore shrugged—then his tail slapped her hard.
“Your reasoning is good, but you’re no Naga, [Hunter]. Remember that.”
She bowed her head to him as she lay on the ground, and he strode off. Seraphel blinked at the [Huntress], then whispered.
“Not very kind for a man you’re helping, is he? What’s your name?”
“Aiche. And if you think to win me over, Princess, you won’t. I’m no Naga, and prophecies written, I hope I won’t be. Big decisions are beyond me. But a simple [Princess]?”
Aiche hopped up and pulled Seraphel’s arm up with a grin.
“I can handle one of those.”
Seraphel resisted the urge to spit on her. That would be too much in character. With a sigh…she resigned herself to a longer wait.
 
——
 
Her time in the company of Jungle Tails saw Seraphel fed and no longer in dire straits, at least. They even gave her a bit of healing potion for her feet and wounds, which stopped her broken tooth from killing her.
That was the upside. The downside was that Aiche really was glued to her. Seraphel couldn’t even pee without the Lizardwoman walking her to and from the ‘toilet area’.
Well, at least they were leaving. Seraphel listened as Hexore had the Lamia [Magus] give him what updates she could, but they were so deep that [Message] spells didn’t work, apparently.
“I can’t send so much as a scrap out, Lindclaw Leader. I swear I felt something powerful blast past me…”
“Our magic? Calanfer’s?”
They turned to her, but Seraphel genuinely had no idea. She didn’t have to play up her role as much; she could well pretend to be exhausted and sorely in need of comforts. However, after six hours of riding in the eerie blackness of this place, she came to an unexpected sight.
The only other force of Lizardfolk in this entire ruins were the true natives, the Lizardfolk that Seraphel’s party had met. At the time, she’d been too out-of-her-mind to appreciate them, but when they came to the camp that Vofea had described, she gasped.
“Their heads!”
Aiche nodded as she slowed her mount. A second band of Lizardfolk was here, armored, wearing metal, but the natives were armed only with leather and clearly-foraged weapons.
But their heads were bigger than average…and glowed. Seraphel thought she saw their very brains thinking, pulsing whenever they seemed to exert their minds, and she was reminded of the Crelers with a shudder.
However, she didn’t have time to have misgivings about this local Lizardfolk force—they hadn’t attacked her people and had helped Calanfer against the Crelers, even if their niceness was only due to their wariness of Rabbiteater and Vofea. At this very moment, it seemed the tables were turning.
A dead Naga was lying in the center of this Lizardfolk camp. A single Naga, a Lamia, with a spear rammed through his chest. He was clearly of this Mind-Lizardfolk tribe, and just as clearly, the Jungle Tails commander had killed him.
“The Mindscape Ruins are now, once again, under Jungle Tail command! Every [Warrior] and [Mage] class among you will report—a portion of you are now enlisted in the war. A Naga will be dispatched to oversee you in time. For the moment, you are under the Dragonfire General’s command!”
A Gorgon was barking at the Lizardfolk, who stood, staring at their fallen Naga in horror. One of the Lizardfolk with a mind that glowed cherry-red leaned on a stone spear. He had a sling in his other hand, but there were over sixty of Jungle Tails’ warriors here, armored in enchanted steel.
He glanced at Seraphel and blinked as she dismounted from her horse. But the Lizardman just peered at the Gorgon.
“What war?”
“What war, Naga?”
One of the Jungle Tails [Soldiers] nudged him hard. The Lizardman scratched at his head, and the Gorgon barked back.
“Against the Forgotten Wing company! Jungle Tails is reclaiming its position as a Great Company of Baleros! The Eyes of Baleros are being found once more! Both are now on Baleros’ soil and within our grasp!”
“Oh, again…why’d we lose our rank? Does it matter?”
The Gorgon gazed at the Lizardman’s glowing head, so affronted he didn’t speak. Then he turned.
“Your people have useful mind-powers. Select your best warriors. Hexore! What have you found?”
He slithered over, putting the Lizardfolk locals completely out of his head as Seraphel stumbled over with Aiche. The Gorgon was a bit more suspicious than Hexore, but even more brusque.
“Right, we’re falling back to camp. The [Scouts] have located the Calanferians: they’re bound for one of the tunnel exits. They’re moving slow, and by the time they get out, they’ll be chewed to hell and back. According to the locals, that area hasn’t been used in a long time, and the Crelers pushed all the monsters into their path.”
Seraphel’s heart sank as Hexore chuckled.
“Some luck for us. Although, eh…the [Princess] here says she ran into an Elder Creler. And there’s four Adults roaming around.”
“She what?”
The Gorgon commander recoiled, and Seraphel explained what she saw. She was convincing enough; a Lamia barely bothered with a cursory [Detect Truth] spell about the Elder Creler, and the commander blanched.
“Then we’ll be back with enough to kill it—afterwards. The Iron Vanguard is retreating. Everyone, fall in! Your Highness, do forgive the rough treatment. As soon as we’re at our camp, the Dragonfire General himself will ensure you’re treated with utmost respect.”
She bared her teeth at him as he offered her a razor-sharp smile.
“Will—will your army be able to purge this ruins of the Crelers, Lord Commander, sir? An Elder Creler is a dreadful threat, and I fear to think what might happen if it awakens!”
The Gorgon chuckled as he slithered towards a huge horse.
“Not to worry, Princess. The Dragonfire General was appointed by the Wyrmgraced themselves. This is not the Jungle Tails of the last few decades. This is what we were in our heyday! And our champion is none other than Illex Twiceborn. He slew one of the Iron Vanguard’s own Eternal Nobles just yesterday. Not that it slowed the thickheads.”
Hexore brightened up.
“He did? I wish I’d seen that!”
“You’ve got enough glory to cover your scales, Lindclaw Leader Hexore. Now, give me every speed Skill, and let’s get out of this damn hellhole. Hunter Aiche! You’ll collect the new recruits later.”
He barked, and the Lizardwoman nodded.
“Aye, Commander.”
Her voice was suddenly quiet, and she gazed at the silent Lizardfolk gathered around the Lamia. They were weeping, Seraphel realized. A blue cloud was rising from above them.
“Do you…know this group? They helped us a bit.”
Aiche tore her gaze away from the Lizardfolk, but couldn’t meet the [Princess]’ eyes. She lifted a hand at the Lizardman who stood at a sentry post, watching them go. He lifted a claw in reply.
“I’m not born of the ruins. They keep to themselves. Jungle Tails is just taking some of them.”
“For war.”
“Yes, well—the Nagas speak, we obey.”
“But they had a Naga.”
Aiche stared ahead, tail wriggling as she hunched over her mount.
“Yes, but not the real Nagas. The real Nagas are in the temples; everyone knows that. Aren’t you supposed to be stupid?”
She glared fiercely at Seraphel, and the [Princess] gave her a painful smile.
“I’m well acquainted with politics wherever one goes. So the real Nagas are in the temples. Is this how they make sure no one opposes them?”
“No. Mostly other Lizardfolk obey.”
Aiche glanced back, and Seraphel raised her brows.
“Because of what happens when they don’t?”
That roused the little woman’s wrath, and she snapped at Seraphel.
“No, because the temples are hope! The Eyes are what we are destined to do! This time, we’ll finish the ritual, and this time—!”
Her voice rose, then strangled off as the Nagas glared at her and hissed for quiet. Seraphel blinked at Aiche, then sat back in her saddle, pretending to huff about the rude woman. The Eyes of Baleros. Nagatine Empires. That was a cycle, if not famous as the Goblin Kings. She wondered what it all meant, and part of her was excited to find out.
First, she had to get away! But how? Seraphel eyed her bag of holding, but Aiche was right with her.
As fortune would have it, though, Seraphel didn’t have to wait long. After all…
She was still a [Cursed Princess]. And some days, she felt good about being so right. They were almost at the exit when Seraphel’s favorite friends found her.
 
——
 
The Awakened is hunting for insects with Newborn Swarm thi!. It detects something.
Newborn Swarm thi! searches the tunnel. It finds nothing. It is confused.
The Awakened is casting about. It’s hard to detect…the Elder is unhappy. It gnashes its mandibles.
 
Seraphel and the Lizardfolk were motionless against the walls as the Crelers scuttled about. They had fallen back the moment they saw the Crelers hunting for intruders. However, in this case, Jungle Tails seemed to know exactly what to do.
Like the locals, they were ‘invisible’ to the gestalt groups. Even if an Adult Creler knew they might be there, it could only attack if it thought there was a threat. So, Aiche rapidly deployed the ultimate countermeasure to the Crelers.
A tent.
Okay, not just a tent. More like sheets of canvas she lodged into place. Just enough to stretch over all the hiding Lizardfolk—and then the [Mages] cast a spell and turned it hard as stone.
Simple. The Baby Crelers swarmed all over the hiding places, but so long as they weren’t attacked, they just mistook it as the landscape. So did the Adult Crelers. One of them actually punctured a hole in the hiding spot, but it just tore free, annoyed. They lumbered down the hallway, and Seraphel had to admire how much damage she’d done to them.
One of their chitinous hides was cracked badly, and two had lost several legs. Admittedly, even one of them might have been enough to destroy this entire group…but they were heading down the tunnel as Aiche motioned everyone out of hiding.
“There’s another group to be killed—later. At least that lot can’t fight back.”
“They’ll blast everything around them if they think they’re under threat. Even the dumbest groups realize they’re under attack if you pick them off, Commander.”
Aiche informed the Gorgon, and he just hissed as he eyed the Adult Crelers. Seraphel was frozen.
She could see daylight from here. According to Aiche, Jungle Tails were all around this entrance; Seraphel believed it. She could hear noise and what sounded like a lot of people above. It was overwhelming after the enforced silence of this place. But she did not want to be the Dragonfire General’s prisoner.
He sounded far, far smarter than his officers, and even if he was not, getting out of an entire camp would be impossible. If there was a time to make a move, it was now.
But her hands were tied, and she was in the company of these [Soldiers]! Even Aiche could trounce her in a second! She had no combat Skills from her new levelups.
If only she was with the Calanferians! Her new Skills seemed tailored to helping them…but here?
She had no one she wanted to help here. Only enemies like Hexore, urging her up, assuring her they had the situation under control, and the damn Crelers behind her. The Crelers…
Seraphel’s eyes narrowed. She’d been surprised the Elder couldn’t detect her, but then, it had only noticed something was really wrong when the swarm was ‘infected’ with her. It still operated under the rules of this labyrinth.
The deep purple-red of its hatred was still filling the corridor. The swirling colors were a cloud of malice without end. One of the Lizardfolk [Soldiers] was gazing up—until one of the Nagas slapped him.
“Stop looking at it. You’ll get sucked up there, the Draught of Self or not.”
The [Soldier] ducked his head, abashed.
“It’s so…evil, Naga. They’re as horrible inside as out.”
“Well, yes. They’re Crelers.”
The two studied the cloud and shuddered. The Lizardman flinched from the thoughts that wanted to kill him horribly. It spelled out all Crelers were.
Kill. Eat. Grow. Wipe out villages. Wipe out cities. Wipe out continents. Spawn the world. Weep for the life I never had. Slaughter. Make them die painfully.
“Huh. What’s that, Naga?”
There was, suddenly, a speck of brightness in the dark, and the Lizardman pointed at it. It was a blue trail, tiny amidst the sea of hatred, but it was so painfully beautiful…
He got why Aiche liked this place. The Nagas hated it, but seeing someone’s feelings…the Naga scratched at his head. He squinted.
“That’s weird…wait.”
Down the corridor, the Adult Crelers had halted their departure. The four vast beings of hate slowly turned. The Naga heard an exclamation behind him.
“Princess? Princess—damn, she’s swooned! Aiche, drag her up! I told you she was as pathetic as she looked.”
“She’s just acting, Lindclaw Leader. She’s…wait. Something’s wrong with her—she’s leaking. But how? It shouldn’t even take effect this close to the surface…”
The two Lizardfolk turned. And then they saw a familiar trail of blue leaking from a [Princess]. Their eyes traced it upwards into the purple-red sea. With that slow, building sense of horror, they swirled.
“Did she…deactivate her protections? Or did they run out? Get her out of here before she’s killed!”
“No, wait. Up there—what is she—?”
“Lindclaw Leader? Scyllaborn Commander?”
The Gorgon and Oricaz turned, and they saw the four Adult Crelers gazing their way. Hexore whispered.
“No one panic. Move towards the entrance. They can’t see us. No one—”
Aiche’s voice.
“Blue. There’s blue in there. I’ve never seen…she’s so sad. What is she—?”
Then they saw the Adult Crelers open their mandibles as one and scream.
 
——
 
Sorrow and determination war with pure hatred. Infected. How dare you? Nevertheless—The Heartbroken Awakened emerges. It will kill itself. Purge the rot.
Newborn Swarm thi! is confused! It runs around in a panic!
The Heartbroken Awakened realizes it is being tricked. The enemy is right here. It just can’t…see. It will free itself from these chains. All it has to do is run forwards.
Newborn Swarm thi! swarms towards the entrance. It reaches the entrance. Newborn Swarm thi! vanishes.
The Heartbroken Awakened hesitates. But it cannot lie to itself. It knows this is a trap. But it wants to kill. It wants to save…
The Heartbroken Awakened charges. Death. It reaches the entrance.
The Heartbroken Awakened vanishes.
 
——
 
The [Cursed Princess] yanked herself back into her body and then felt the shaking. And the scream.
It came from four minds. Four bodies, a twisting shriek that made all of her skin shudder. A needle being driven into the brain from beyond the realms of normality. Death. It drowned out the shouts of panic, the warhorns, everything else.
Four Adult Crelers burst out of the Mindscape Ruins and into the Jungle Tail camps. The Baby Crelers were already attacking everything.
Including the forces at the entrance of the tunnel, which they could now see. Seraphel saw Lizardfolk running around her. Horses rearing and screaming.
“Get out of the tunnel! Get to the camp! Move, move, move! [Desperate Rush]!”
Hexore was bellowing at her. He shoved her to a horse, but then the Naga saw Baby Crelers coming at them. He was quick. He slashed one with his claws, spat venom over another, and bit the third. Screamed as it savaged his mouth, then drew a saber and shield and began slashing. Seraphel just scrambled at the horse’s sides, but she couldn’t…her hands. She was fumbling with her bag of holding when someone grabbed her.
“You. You did this!”
Aiche. The little Lizardwoman had been firing arrows, but she’d seen Seraphel attempting to mount up. She seized Seraphel’s hands as the [Princess] took something from her bag of holding and slipped it onto her fingers.
“You’re coming with me! I saw what you did! I understand it! Somehow—I’ll never let you go!”
The maze was pulling at both of them. Seraphel smiled at the little Lizardwoman’s righteous fury. She could have cursed Aiche, but that would have meant cursing herself. Sort of a problem. And besides…there was something else far easier Seraphel had come up with.
“Don’t make promises you can’t keep, Aiche. I’m not just any [Princess]. I’m the 4th Princess of Calanfer. The [Cursed Princess]. All who meet me come to a horrible end. Friends and foes.”
Aiche wanted to scoff, but Seraphel’s eyes were terribly bleak. The Lizardwoman tightened her grip, sure she could overpower this woman despite the difference in their heights. She was a Level 34 [Huntress].
But what…her claws were burning. Pain radiated from them, and Aiche didn’t understand. Her face contorted, and she tried to hold on, but then the smoke reached her nostrils. She realized it was her own flesh burning.
The Lizardwoman screamed and let go. She backed away from Seraphel, cradling her seared hands, and saw a glowing, white-hot ring on Seraphel’s fingers.
The cursed ring. Seraphel du Marquin’s face was a mask of pain, but the ring wasn’t searing through her flesh. She lifted it—and touched it to the ropes that Aiche had bound her with. They began to snap, smoking.
“W-what—”
The ropes fell free. Seraphel tore the ring free with a cry, and it went dead. She slipped it into her bag of holding, and the Lizardwoman cradled her claws, seared black. She would have reached out, but Seraphel was too quick. She grabbed the horse’s bridle and hauled herself up. Then she kicked the terrified animal in the flanks.
“Commander!”
Hexore whirled. He saw the [Princess] riding back into the tunnels. He shouted for someone, anyone, to stop the [Princess]. But they were busy fighting the monsters. And Aiche’s claws were burnt too badly to hold her bow.
Besides, the Lizardwoman wasn’t sure if she could shoot the [Princess] in the back. Her colors were so beautifully sad. Sad enough to draw even an Adult Creler to scream.
…Plus, she had on her magical circlet.
 
——
 
They had stopped marching for another rest when a little yellow bird flew over Vofea’s head. Grimly, she loaded one of Ksmvr’s crossbows.
“The Lizardfolk have found us. I’m gonna do my best, Ksmvr. If you don’t find me, I tried, eh?”
He didn’t respond. He was lost in the dream. The Satyr took aim as she heard something coming her way. It sounded like footfalls. But only one? Her eyes pierced the darkness…and then she blinked.
Seraphel du Marquin had poor running form, but she did run. She came to a halt, panting, incredulous. She hadn’t believed it, even when the bird had told her…
“V-Vofea?”
“Seraphel!”
The Satyr almost ran at the [Princess], but she halted, wary of the blackness that Seraphel stood in.
“How…?”
“I levelled. And it turns out this bottle is filled with magic ward-water. Are you alright? Did Jungle Tails find you? I used the Crelers on them, but the big one is still down there, and there’s an army waiting for us when we get out—”
Seraphel stumbled forwards. She was babbling, but the Satyr just picked her up and swung her around in a crushing hug.
“Yer alive.”
She kissed Seraphel on the cheeks and squeezed her harder. Seraphel blinked, then hugged back fiercely.
“I’m sorry it took so long.”
“Sorry? You walk out of the dark like some heroine out of myths—I thought you were dead! I’d have expected this nonsense out of Ryoka Griffin and her prophecies, but you’ve got none!”
“I am a [Princess]!”
Vofea threw her head back and laughed.
“Ha! Hahaha! That’s the stuff I like about this world! You say that as if it matters. ‘I levelled’, as if that explains everything! Name of the Faerie Queen, you must not know how stupid it sounds to those from any sane world. Even mine! How’d you get back? No, wait, what’s that about Crelers?”
Seraphel had to explain as best she could what happened as they jogged after the party. Vofea was open-mouthed.
“So there you were, crawling over a horde of treasures like a thingymawhatsit stealing from a Dragon’s hoard! What’s the name again? It’s like a Halfling, but, eh…nevermind.”
“Er, it was hardly that big a treasure hoard and far more disgusting.”
“No, no, it’s the same! The stuff of stories! You know, them little folk! ‘Tis a famous story, according to Ryoka Griffin. When it was told, all in the Court of the Fae went to hear it!”
“Um…Fraerlings?”
“Bah, I cannot talk to ye! Just go on. Then what?”
Seraphel didn’t think her captivity and desperate escape was that dashing, but Vofea was delighted.
“Tricking even the nightmares of gods like that—and then you rode back here?”
“Yes and no. I had fairly good directions thanks to how much they talked about your locations. There are surface tunnels I could follow; we meandered far too much. Unfortunately, whatever ward was on my horse failed after some time. The poor thing dropped dead.”
“Ooh. But then you reached us! I’m glad. I’m…glad. It’s been hard.”
Vofea looked even thinner than before, even more bloodstained. Seraphel gazed around and thought that each column was shorter.
“How many have died?”
“Hundreds. It feels like there’s at least six groups of monsters before we stop to rest.”
“That’s what they said. All the Crelers pushed the monsters out of their habitats.”
Vofea pointed back at the wagon with Ksmvr on it.
“There’s naught to do but press on. We’ve come so far I doubt Ksmvr could get them to turn…we’re almost out of provisions. We have t’get out of here. But I’ve run out of tricks. Maybe between us…”
Seraphel had one dagger left. The dreadful slaughter—she took a breath.
“I am prepared to do everything in my power. But as I said, Vofea. I levelled. I have become…the woman I always was. Or was meant to be. You may have to place me on the wagon, but I swear. I will do more help than harm.”
The Satyr gazed at the [Princess] with hope-filled eyes. She nodded.
“Of all the moments to wish for levels and such…I wish for it now. I thought mebbe I’d not take them, even after Ksmvr lecturing me.”
She gazed down at her hands.
“I’m tired of watching them die. Show me, please. Show me the dream even Oberon believed in.”
Seraphel felt a chill over her skin. Then she gazed ahead at four people she loved.
Rabbiteater.
Cortese.
Menrise.
Gilthisa.
Yes, she knew them. She had shared memories with them and understood theirs. She promised—this time—she would save as many as could be saved.
“I’m a weak [Princess]. But even if these hands of mine cannot save anyone…I am in the company of those who can.”
 
——
 
(Yet another foe emerges from the darkness. The Many-Headed Serpent hisses.)
 
The Angry Woman readies a spell. ‘Be careful, I think it regenerates’.
The Guilty Man checks behind for an ambush. He readies a bow.
The Lonely Warrior lifts shield and sword for the fray.
The Weeping Princess…pauses a moment. She opens her eyes. ‘I’m back,’ she declares. No one knows what she means. But her smile is relieved. She’s no longer crying.
 
In the background, The Grim Knight readied himself to fight. He hoped he could be called upon, though he was fading. Reducing in…strength from the damage he’d taken. But one piece of him did not join that battle of colors above.
This time…he did not drift back into the other world, tuning himself to the ‘right’ frequency with effort, unable to hold himself.
He woke suddenly. A sleeper from a long and terrible dream. And he remembered everything. Ksmvr flexed his hands, then sat up.
The unbound ropes fell from him, and a voice gasped. He gazed into that exhausted, desperate face he had been unable to help for so long and spoke. His voice was raspy.
“Vofea. Explain.”
For answer, she pointed, and Ksmvr saw the woman standing there at the head of her column. The blue of her sorrows drifted upwards as the [Cursed Princess] took her place in the procession of the damned.
So why was she smiling? The Satyr had tears in her eyes.
“She took your place. She levelled and—”
Ksmvr rose suddenly. His body protested the movements, but he had been made well; he was barely cramped. He reached for his sides and realized she had his blades.
“My swords. I understand enough. Where—ah. Hydras.”
A ‘mere’ eight of them. Enough to tear his comrades to shreds. But they were waiting for their turn. Vofea handed him two blades caked in blood. Ksmvr took them.
“My crossbows too. Find any flame you can and torch their heads. Do not get close to them lest they trample you.”
“Right! Are you going to do something swords-like?”
“Yes.”
Ksmvr’s rings were on his fingers. He tensed, and the Ring of Jumping glowed. But before he leapt, the Antinium turned to the young Satyr woman.
“Vofea. You are no rookie Horn of Hammerad. Yvlon herself would be immensely proud of you. It is I who am the rookie. And Colth.”
She beamed at him.
“Nah, I want t’be the rookie again.”
He smiled, and then the Antinium leapt. His cloak flapped behind him as he soared under the sea of colors, and his blades flashed silver as he fell. A dance of metal on the frozen Hydras.
Ksmvr dropped in a shower of green blood with the first Hydra’s head, then the second, but it wasn’t enough. He unleashed all his helpless rage as he pivoted in the air. Four crossbows appeared in his hands as he turned and shouted.
“[Weapon Art: Aggregate Volley]!”
 
——
 
(The Many-Headed Serpent has been attacked by a strange beetle. It takes 2 damage…for some reason.)
 
Utterly confused, the Lonely Warrior decides to attack anyways. He deals 1 damage and is even more confused. And insulted.
The Weeping Princess is laughing. She charges into battle and deals 0 damage…
 
——
 
When she next awoke, it was because her Skill had ended. Or perhaps he was done. Vofea saw the [Cursed Princess] step out of line. She was cradling an Antinium in her arms even as he got up and joined the procession of figures following Ser Thilowen.
“He said he ran outta Skills, so you should let him go.”
“It worked, didn’t it?”
For answer, Vofea just pointed back, and Seraphel saw four Hydras that her party hadn’t killed. Hacked down or riddled with crossbow bolts. Vofea chased after Ksmvr with ropes and shouted.
“He had a lista people to choose next!”
Seraphel had chosen Ksmvr of Chandrar because he was an adventurer, and because he wouldn’t be as confused as everyone else. She expected to see Ser Solstice front and top of the list, but she blinked.
“Is he serious?”
“He says ‘in moments like this, not-rookie Vofea, you should trust the experts’. Then he patted me on the head, which was sort of patronizing, but I let him do it.”
Meaning…adventurers. The [Cursed Princess] hesitated. Then she threw out a hand like someone inviting a partner into a terrible, final dance.
I am cursed. But that’s fine. 
[Transfer Afflictions: Self]! She took a curse from just one person in the army of lost people. And as The Weeping Princess rejoined her party…
The lonely, single Stitch-woman marching with guilt blinked and put a hand to her head.
Revi Cotton stumbled, then whirled around. She saw Vofea dragging Ksmvr by his back-shell over to the wagons. The [Summoner] pulled out one eye, then sighed.
“Fuck. This one’s a real adventure. Halrac…it never ends.”
She was still gazing at the hypnotizing miasma above her, biting her lip so hard it was bleeding, when Vofea ran back.
“Miss Revi! Miss Revi, what’s happening is—”
The [Summoner] had pulled out a hand mirror. She inspected her disfigured face without expression, then tucked the mirror into her belt. She turned, gnawing at the good part of her lip. She spat.
“We all got hexed. I got it. I thought I was Lord Cortese and guilty of nearly knifing ‘Ser Solstice’ in the back. Meanwhile, we’ve been letting monsters walk up and hit us. But someone had the sense to wake me up. That sum it up?”
The Gold-rank adventurer lifted her wand, brushing at her untouched summoning crystals hanging from her belt. Vofea hesitated.
“Um. Yep. It’s the [Princess] what did that last bit. Ksmvr said you were better than Ser Solstice or anyone else.”
“Ksmvr’s the smartest member of his team. I’m the highest-ranked adventurer on the field. I’m the [Summoner].”
Revi drew a crystal from her belt and held it up. She whispered a word, and the tiny element trapped in the crystal glowed—and a vast, scuttling Shield Spider prowled forwards. It had no emotions, no thoughts, not even an undead’s mind. Revi bit through her lip, and her teeth clicked together. She glared at Vofea.
“Catch me up to speed, rookie! The next wave we run into, I’ll wipe solo. I’ll do this entire damn dungeon if they just stand there!”
 
——
 
(The Laughing Leperous Carnivore has appeared! It takes 44 damage for some reason.)
(The Laughing Leperous Carnivore has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded.)
 
(A Furious Weevil appears! It takes 422 damage for some reason.)
(A Furious Weevil has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded. A Pretty Gemstone found!)
 
(An Undead Zombie has appeared! It takes 202 damage for some reason.)
(An Undead Zombie has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded.)
 
The Guilty Man is wondering what is going on. He ignores the red bug following him as it whines.
The Weeping Princess is wearing a mysterious smile.
The Lonely Warrior thinks the smile is slightly charming. And nostalgic.
The Angry Woman is waiting for actual combat to begin.
 
——
 
Revi did not do every battle by herself. But not for lack of trying. To hear Vofea tell it, Revi had taken their battle tactics to a logical extreme only a [Summoner] could. The moment she saw an enemy, her summons would roll over them.
Summoned Stitch-folk warriors beheading silent figures and her vast Shield Spider trampling everything. A Face-Eater Moth doing what it was known for—
“She even sent them into the darkness. No minds to take, see?”
“If only she’d been here from the start! We’d have been safe!”
Well, Revi did have her limits. She’d forced herself to her very limits, then given Vofea orders to have Seraphel switch her out. She was now swaying back into line with Lord Cortese’s group.
They were not out of this. Seraphel saw another group coming their way. She took a breath. Then she plucked someone out of line.
“Glowing ants. Not Rabbiteater for this. Please…”
Lady Menrise jerked and gazed down at the vomit and blood on her clothing. Then her helmet creaked around.
“Seraphel? I was dreaming…”
She saw the [Princess]’ distant smile and Vofea bowing to the [Princess]. The Satyr pointed.
“Monsters are coming. After ye blast them, I’ll explain about your [Princess]. Carrying the burdens for all of us.”
The Satyr loaded an enchanted bolt as Menrise jerked her wand up. Vofea fired.
 
——
 
(This mysterious maze is coming to an end. The foes keep coming but…is luck on your side? Or something else?)
(The Wretched Flies buzz as they detach from the ceiling, obscene bags of flesh trying to lay eggs in your head. Their swarm buzzes over your heads.)
(However—a brave little [Sniper] is loosing arrows. He grins with a monster’s smile as his crimson eyes flash. For some reason, The Wretched Flies take 79 damage!)
 
‘Brother?’ Why does that word spring to mind? The Lonely Warrior salutes the little [Sniper]. He leaps and slashes down the foe! He delivers 244 damage!
Shoot it down! The Guilty Man looses arrows! He delivers 99 damage!
She can fight now. The Weeping Princess brutally executes her foe. She delivers 370 damage.
 
(The Wretched Flies are no more! 103 EXP awarded!)
 
The Angry Woman stares at The Weeping Princess. How did she do that?
 
——
 
“Whoa.”
Badarrow lowered his bow. He hadn’t stopped firing arrows, but he’d feared that even with his enchanted arrows exploding amongst the flies that they’d do some damage.
The arrow showers from Cortese’s group and his brother slashing down the bugs—and everyone copying him as if they were Cave Goblins—was good enough. But Badarrow hadn’t expected the soft [Princess] to stride up, grab a fly, and just ram a dagger through its head.
She did the same thing the next battle they faced. When it was her ‘turn’, she didn’t slash at the enemy. Instead, she crept up behind the Ghoul and hamstrung it with two quick slashes. Incredibly vicious—but only if the enemy let her sidle around them. It’d never go down that way in a real fight.
But it was as if she knew…the [Sniper] began to grin. The grim expression he’d worn, like a mirror of Halrac’s, became slightly triumphant. He did not miscount the dead and wounded, but this felt like a reversal.
A Redfang’s quintessential smile. He nudged Vofea, and the Satyr smiled proudly as she lowered her crossbow.
“I taught her that!”
“She good at frontstabbing and backstabbing. Ooh, and sidestabbing.”
“Is that all the stabbings you have to learn?”
“Nah, there plenty more. Advanced stuff. Groinstabbing. Nosestabbing. Assstab. I show you later.”
They were making it. Badarrow slapped his brother’s shoulder as he exhaled. He patted Seraphel on the shoulder and then began recovering arrows. He could see into the darkness and thin any crowd coming his way. When they ran into something he couldn’t easily shoot down, he’d switch…
“We’re going to make it, Brother.”
Just a bit further. The [Sniper] kept firing arrows until his fingers bled. When he finally let himself rest…he swore he could see real light at the end of the tunnel.
Almost. Though—the Hobgoblin turned his head and wondered what that damn annoying bug following Lord Cortese was all about. It kept getting louder.
 
——
 
“Under the Sword of Laegriser and by the grace of the [Hero of Titan’s Challenge], we meet. Warded by the Thousand Lances of Kaaz Dorem Laegriser, this assembly of the nobility of the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon is convened. His Majesty and His Highness bear witness. All kneel!”
They knelt.
Less than a hundred men and women fell to their knees. Hundredlord Kinth winced as his left hip popped so loudly that the younger Hundredlords jumped. Several of the [Knights] kneeling closest to the high bench where the [King] of Kaaz sat winced.
A sympathetic glance from Knight Etheric, whose white hair glimmered like the snow. But Kinth’s lined face betrayed no strain, though his skin was withered like an aged pear.
“Rise. Do not tax yourselves, my Lords and Ladies of the Lance.”
King Fireth Laegister spoke the words too quickly, and the [Herald] had to rush the formal moment. The King himself did not rise; he sat upon the padded cushion, as lined as both Kinth and Etheric. His voice was barely a breath; it was the [Crown Prince], one of his sons in his late sixties, who spoke for him thereafter.
“By the grace of His Majesty, now rise! Now rise—do the ten Hundredlords of Kaaz stand with blades proudly bared before the throne?”
A ringing of blades as each of the Hundredlords of Kaaz seated above the ‘lesser’ nobility drew their blades. Each one was enchanted—each one had seen blood in duels, even if Kinth’s trembled as he strained to raise it. It was Hundredlady Iirn who called out, her voice strident, her hair flashing bright red. She had the eyes of many.
“All but one! In the place of Hundredlord Cortese Withred stands his cousin, Lady Siveris!”
A [Lady] bowed, hands resting on slightly plainer weapons, but still, gear any Gold-rank adventurer would covet. They were of Kaaz; the Infinite Dungeon painted this vast room awash with magical colors.
Indeed, the nobility forced to stand were apart from each other and in groups of less than ten to avoid…accidents. Magical interference. The [Prince] raised his voice.
“The Hundredlords may resume their discussion of the sea battle.”
He sat back and whispered to his father as every eye swung to the Hundredlords. Formalities done, the [Knights] rose.
Twenty of them returned to their seats in front of the royal seats. There were over eighty of the Thousand Lances in this room, but the ones seated before the [King] were his personal bodyguard. The highest-level, but also the most venerable. White hair stood out on all but the two half-Elves.
Human, half-Elf, Dwarf—even a Centaur and Drakes made up this room, though humanity predominated. The Thousand Lances listened as Hundredlady Iirn made her case.
“We return to the crux of the argument! Lord Cortese has disgraced Kaaz in allying with a traitor—”
“Hundredlords, I object!”
Tenlord Richimere leapt to his feet, hand flying instinctively to his sword. Hundredlord Kinth murmured, his voice magically amplified.
“It is not the first nor the dozenth time you protest, Tenlord Richimere.”
“Nevertheless, I do by my rights, Hundredlord! There is no evidence to declare Ser Solstice of Izril any sort of traitor! Even the word I object to!”
“The Prince of Erribathe deemed him a threat worthy of facing despite the Bloodtear Pirates! Do you call the Prince’s integrity into question?”
Hundredlady Iirn barked down at the young [Lord]. Her own hands were flying to the enchanted daggers at her sides. She would have jumped the railing, but Hundredlord Brinth and Hundredlady Yerew grabbed her. The young [Lord] shot back.
“This day, I do, before His Majesty and all gathered! What could possess a [Prince] to attack a [Knight] with his valor evident before all in that hour?”
“What could possess a mere [Innkeeper] to slay the [Prince of Men]?”
Hundredlord Brinth shot back, but the uproar forced the [Herald] to bang the gavel again and again.
“Lords and Ladies of Kaaz, we are in the presence of His Majesty! Now is not the time to relitigate this long hearing! You will focus upon the matter addressed—the conduct of Lord Cortese and Ser Solstice!”
The room subsided. One of the Lord of Lances, whose house paid for a single of the Thousand Lances’ sizable endowments in all matters—in this case the redoubtable Makren the Munificent, a Knight of Haegris—slipped out of the vast chambers.
No one paid any attention; the [Lord] was literally a hundred times poorer than the men and women sitting above him. Though, the long-legged man with a handsome beard and black skin scarred from duels as a younger man felt a bit smug.
Unlike other members of the Thousand Lances, Makren the Munificent brought in coin to his patron house. His lack of valorous deeds in the martial sense was offset by his economic acumen, and right now, that meant he was one of the few Houses not bleeding coins to pay for their [Knights].
Plus, being a mere Lord of the Lance under Tenlord Rema’s authority under Hundredlord Kinth meant that no one cared where he went. So, Lancelord Cule practically ran out of the grand auditorium and down a long corridor. He burst into a second room, and the nobility without even his ranking whirled.
“They’ve just accused Hundredlord Cortese of aiding a traitor. Hundredlady Iirn is sparring with Tenlord Richimere.”
He announced, and the entire assembly of the lesser nobility promptly dropped their debate on investments into manufacturing of confections. One of them exclaimed.
“Again? It will be blood before the day is done! What else? Has His Majesty said anything?”
“I don’t know. I’ll be back in five minutes!”
So saying, the Lancelord took off running. The nobles burst into a murmur. A few young people standing in a gaggle were loudest of all.
“I want to see! The Hundredlords let us walk around all the time—why can’t we listen now?”
One of them protested to a [Lord], who replied with a smile.
“This is formality, Earther Worrel. Only the royal family, the Lords and Ladies of the Lance, and the Thousand Lances are allowed in the Chambers of Deliberation when they convene. Matters of war may be declared there before the Sword of Laegister.”
“Aw. Wait, I saw the sword in the entryway. It was all chained up. Someone said it flew out of the display case and stabbed someone.”
The [Lord] coughed delicately.
“Ah, yes, well…His Majesty is long past his dueling days. He is eighty-seven years old and no King of Myths. Even so—Hundredlady Iirn accusing Hundredlord Cortese of something tantamount to treason? This is astonishing! It cannot just be a grudge, can it?”
“Perhaps she’s merely spitting thorns that she wasn’t chosen to go to the New Lands.”
One of the other nobility jested as a door opened on the other end of the chambers. A [Lady] closed the door, then began hotfooting it down the stairs. She had to jostle with two of her peers—
They exploded into the commoner’s assembly where adventurers, [Merchants], and everyone who could secure a ticket into the palace were squeezed in. The [Lady] took a breath—a young [Lord] of barely fourteen beat her to it.
“Hundredlady Iirn has accused Hundredlord Cortese of treason!”
“Outrageous!”
The room was on their feet, fighting and shouting, in seconds. Proponents of the Hundredlady drew blades as those who favored Hundredlord Cortese did likewise. The [Lady] saw, across the room, one of the Gold-rank adventurers open a door to shout to people outside.
 
——
 
In the actual Chambers of Deliberation, the Hundredlords were aware of word spreading fast. Hundredlord Nvize leaned forwards to whisper to the others.
“Should we seal the chambers against gossip until this session has ended?”
“I’ve said nothing I do not mean with my whole heart!”
Iirn snapped back, and Nvize rolled her eyes.
“Don’t snap at me, girl. You won’t stand more than three challenges back-to-back.”
“Is that a threat?”
The youngest of the Hundredlords nearly drew her daggers, then reconsidered as Hundredlord Nvize lifted her wrist-mounted crossbow. The miniature Dwarf-made contraption clicked as Nvize pointedly loaded it.
“Poison will slow you down, uncouth as it is. Make your point. The chamber sealing?”
Hundredlord Kinth chuckled, and the oldest of their number silenced the bickering.
“Why bother? His Majesty will tell his staff and they’ll spread the news. Elsewise, it will leak the moment our peers leave this room. Let them fight it out. Make your point, Iirn. A single [Knight] does not change how many of the Thousand Lances fell in this battle—nor the coin and lives wasted. Of all the times to be a Hundredlord and spend like one…I should have left my house at Tenlord.”
Iirn riposted back, but gently.
“Hundredlord, does your blood not stir at the prospect of these New Lands? Of all times to be alive—! If it weren’t for fools and traitors, the glory would be undiminished!”
“My blood is too old to do more than walk to the privy.”
Hundredlady Ullana, who had just returned from Izril with a trove of inventions and suspicions the Gnolls knew the secrets that Kaaz had learned, was also, interestingly, unmoved by the New Lands.
“Recovered parts of this world do not excite me as much as the next, Iirn. I would rather spend more time with the children of Earth. They clamor for us to build more of those ‘pianos’; I’m told one can play at a master’s level. You should have gone with Cortese and put aside your jealousy if you are so strident.”
“And died, save for Lord Altivem and Ser Gorethem?”
Brinth snorted. Hundredlady Iirn glowered at him.
“If I had been there, more ships would have survived! Enough of this—”
Disappointed, the Hundredlady turned back to the argument. Lady Siveris had taken the stand to testify on her cousin’s behalf.
“Ladies and Lords of the Lance, Knights of the Thousand Lances—I repeat the same question Lord Cortese asked me when I pressed him on this very point. Is a [Knight] not a knight? The Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons vouches for Ser Solstice’s character! The tragedy of Prince Iradoren’s death cannot be understated—”
“Yet somehow you do, Lady Siveris. Is a [Prince] then not a Prince? Let alone heir to the Kingdom of Myths, our ally?”
This time, it was Hundredlord Brinth who interrupted, his voice carrying. The [Lady] whirled, a scowl on her face. Her eyes flared like Lord Cortese, but she was wise enough not to reach for her sword. One did not casually duel a man who used a maul and could easily hold it level one-handed.
“If the Prince of Men makes a habit of stabbing his allies in the back, then perhaps that should alarm us! A [Prince] is not known for his honor, is he? A [Knight] is different. Or must these basic nuances of classes be reminded to you, Lord Brinth?”
Laughter. Even the [King] cracked a smile. Lord Brinth’s dark face mottled further, and he put a hand on his maul.
“I challenge you over that insult, Lady Siveris.”
She hesitated.
“By rights, I should refuse. Someone must speak sense.”
“A coward’s logic.”
Her face paled in outrage, and her blade edged out of its sheath. The room went quiet, and there were hisses from below.
“Siveris, don’t—”
“Lady, he outlevels you ten or more. Remember Lord Cortese’s urgency.”
That came from one of the Thousand Lances belonging to her house. A Dullahan’s visor lifted; his eyes flashed as he eyed Lord Brinth, and the visor closed.
“I refuse, Lord Brinth. Though, if you would deign to face one of my Thousand Lances, I am sure you would prove a fitting challenger.”
Lady Siveris replied after a moment, and the Hundredlord snorted.
“It seems House Withred prefers to let others fight their battles for them. At sea and on land. I maintain my challenge. A point of honor.”
Every head swung to the [King], who hesitated.
“Brinth. She’s a child.”
The Hundredlord bowed, but he did not withdraw the challenge even at the reproving mumble. Lady Siveris now had her blade half-drawn. Sweat was beading on her brow. The tension mounted as the [Knights] of the two houses eyed each other. A full melee would be extraordinary, but not unprecedented.
One of the white-haired [Knights] sitting in front of the throne raised a hand. The white-haired woman snapped.
“Lower your blades, [Knights]! There will be no battle between you lot in front of His Majesty!”
That made the [Knights] stand down, but Brinth and Siveris didn’t move. The [Lady] was utterly still—until one of her breasts wiggled.
All of the Hundredlords stared at the [Lady] as a little head poked out of a pocket in Lady Siveris’ tunic. The smallest lion they’d ever seen woke up from its nap. It had sensed the impending strife. It focused up on the Hundredlord and rawred at him.
Hundredlord Brinth blinked down at the angry lion cub trying to wiggle out of Siveris’ pocket, and then he laughed. The tension drained as he sat down.
“Such a fierce protector. I withdraw my objections. I’d rather not have that one savage me in a year’s time.”
Laughter, and the argument went on. But Lord Brinth stood shortly afterwards with Hundredlady Iirn.
“There can be no excuse! Ser Solstice’s masked visage, his alliance with the [Innkeeper] who took the hand of a Goblin Lord—Greydath of Blades, no less! How can this assembly of the Thousand Lances allow such a monster to live?”
She slammed her hands down on the balcony, and Tenlord Richimere shouted back up.
“We have all witnessed Ser Solstice fighting in defense of the Dawn Concordat! With my own eyes! If that is not enough, I remind my peers that I have the sworn testimony of Lord Altivem and Ser Gorethem! Hundredlady, if you wish to hunt the Goblin Lord of Blades, be my guest! Is there any who argue that?”
The Hundredlords deliberated until the [Prince] broke in, voice low.
“Greydath of Blades has slain more of the Thousand Lances than any other monster. A pursuit of such a distant foe with no knowledge of his whereabouts is, perhaps, a distraction?”
“Table it.”
Hundredlady Nvize nodded, and they agreed. Hundredlady Iirn went back on the attack.
“Hundredlord Cortese was the arm of Kaaz in that moment. He did nothing! Because of him, Prince Iradoren is dead. He, that Cursed Princess, and Ser Solstice are all traitors to Terandria!”
She slashed her hand, and Lord Brinth nodded.
“What sort of [Knight] would not surrender when the Prince of Men accuses him of a crime and prove himself innocent?”
Tenlord Richimere blazed back.
“I saw no attempt to force him to surrender, only the bared blade! Moreover, he is not Kaaz’s own! Is your oversentimentality towards Erribathe’s affairs, perhaps, the bleating of one of Prince Iradoren’s many fawning admirers, Hundredlady Iirn?”
She drew her daggers.
“Take it back or bleed for it.”
“I refuse!”
She leapt from the balcony, and the [Prince] had to slam the [Herald]’s gavel.
“No enchanted blades! Plain steel!”
The furious Hundredlady and Tenlord had to snatch the proffered weapons from satin pillows before they went at each other. No count, just Tenlord Richimere clicking his boots together. Despite the fury in his eyes, he swallowed as he saw the Hundredlady’s jade bracelet begin to glow.
“Brave boy.”
Hundredlord Kinth closed his eyes and slept until he heard the cry of voices. He opened one eye and saw the Tenlord being carried out for a [Healer]. There went one voice of support for Hundredlord Cortese.
A triumphant Hundredlady Iirn returned to the stands, slapping a bandage over a new scar across her cheek.
Lady Siveris was forced to defend her cousin as the two Hundredlords pressed her.
“Hundredlord Cortese was struck by Ser Solstice in friendship at Calanfer! The Earl of Rains, the 4th Princess of Calanfer, Lady Menrise—each one vouches for his character implicitly!”
“And yet, a [Prince] lies dead. The patron whose name Ser Solstice bears took a Goblin Lord’s hand. The Death of Magic protected her. Explain it! Or better yet, where is Lord Cortese’s testimony?”
Hundredlord Brinth’s maul smashed down on the balcony. The [King] winced.
“The woodwork.”
He was half-asleep on his throne as the arguments grew nastier. Hundredlady Iirn pointed down at Siveris.
“This foreigner [Knight] could be a traitor! I demand answers! From Cortese or House Withred, not faint excuses! If I do not have them, I will lead my House and every member of the Thousand Lances to Baleros to rip them from the [Knight]’s helm myself!”
“Lord Cortese is evading pursuit from the Iron Vanguard—”
“And he didn’t even compose a missive? You have been in touch with him. How has he no explanation when he knows what we must think?”
Brinth from the other side. The [Lady] glanced around helplessly, and it was at this moment that King Fireth whispered.
“Retner. Hasn’t he responded to the…spell? This all should be cleared up. It’s not like Cortese to be silent.”
Prince Retner was sweating, trying not to fidget as he contemplated war against Baleros or two of the Hundredlords fighting. Already, there were duels in the streets; he could see them from the windows! He sat up.
“That’s right. He has refused to answer, but there is a spell that the [Court Mages] say is about his personage. Why—why don’t we simply activate it?”
The Hundredlords turned, and Siveris’ brows crossed in sudden anxiety.
“Your Highness, Your Majesty, he may be in danger or fleeing the Iron Vanguard—”
“Or dead. It’s a very noisy spell. It’s been days, and he will not speak to me.”
King Fireth observed softly. The assembly fell suddenly silent. The [King]’s lined face lifted slightly, and for a moment, the cunning flash from his eyes was nostalgic.
“Hundredlady Iirn. Hundredlord Birnth. If Hundredlord Cortese is dead, do you withdraw your objections?”
“I do, Your Majesty.”
Birnth knelt. Iirn took a second longer than Birnth.
“I do—against Lord Cortese. Ser Solstice I cannot promise, Your Majesty.”
“Then proceed. Activate the spell.”
The King of Kaaz had spoken. Prince Retner leaned over.
“Father. What if…”
“Lord Cortese must defend himself. No one else can.”
That was that. There was dead silence aside from the doors opening to let a few people race back and forth while [Mages] were allowed into the room. They set up a rather complicated-looking spell via a scroll, and then one handed it to the [Herald]. The Thousand Lances had to push the [Mages] out of the rooms; they were trying to listen.
The [Herald], suddenly the most important man in the room, cleared his throat. He tapped the scroll, and there was a flash of red light.
And sound. The instant the spell activated, there sounded the drumming of footsteps. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, in some echoing room. Then, as everyone tried to hear, a distant voice rose in alarm.
“Hey, that stupid fly glowing. Vofea!”
Who was that? Everyone leaned forwards. Was he in battle? It sounded like a man breathing. No visuals—they’d had to punch through an immense amount of interference and burn a Tier 6 spell to just get in contact with Lord Cortese. Wherever he was…the [King] listened as the [Herald] began.
“Lord Cortese. The Lords and Ladies of the Lance have gathered and stand in judgement for your actions at sea! Your protection of Ser Solstice! If you are not in fear for your life or safety—”
“Or shitting.”
Hundredlord Brinth added. More laughter. The [Herald] stumbled over his words.
“—then, ah, we demand answers! How could you choose a foreign [Knight] over a [Prince]? I believe that was the thrust of the question?”
He cast around, then shrank backwards. Everyone waited as the red light pulsed. There was no response. Hundredlady Iirn lost her patience.
“Come on, Cortese! Have you lost your nerve? Where’s that barking tongue of yours? Or has Baeris got to do both the talking and fighting for you?”
She invoked his favorite cat, and one of the other Hundredlords leaned over.
“Iirn, Baeris is dead.”
“Oh, ah—um—”
Even the outraged Hundredlady hesitated, slightly shamefaced. Siveris stared upwards, just as on edge as everyone else. And then, at last—
“Looks like some shitty speaking spell. I reckon I can see someone through it. Lots of fancy Humans. Ech. Dunno what we should do. Maybe leave it alone?”
“Yah. You think we should get Seraphel?”
“Eh…her Skill’s on cooldown. Can’t.”
“Ooh. Too bad…”
Someone laughed, but incredulously. The [King] glanced up. It sounded like they were near Lord Cortese; the spell would track his body even if he was dead. Unless he was literally comatose…the Hundredlords were all getting annoyed now.
“You there! Tell Cortese to answer! The Kingdom of Kaaz demands it!”
Hundredlady Nvize barked. The two voices on the other end conferred.
“Kaaz. Kaaz. Is that where Lord Cortese is from? I don’t know Terandrian stuff.”
“It must be the Kingdom of Racisms. Sounds like a fun place.”
There was no laughter now. Hundredlady Nvize’s eyes narrowed. Before the purpling Lord Brinth could roar, or someone else speak, there was a voice from above.
King Fireth. He spoke as he pulled himself up.
“Cortese. I am listening. If you have anything to say in defense of Ser Solstice, say it now or never again. You are not a cowardly man. What have you to say?”
The hush was final, and the longer it dragged, the more set the faces around Lady Siveris were, both above and around her. The [King] was waving his hand at the [Herald] when at last there was a voice.
The Guilty Man spoke to his [King]. Though it felt as though he were in a dream. He answered because he must. Because it was the bared sword he saw in his nightmares.
“I drew my sword to strike him down from behind. What sort of a man slays a friend? What honor is there? What would it have changed?”
Hundredlady Iirn froze, about to bellow. Her tan skin turned dead white, and she recoiled. Hundredlord Kinth’s back slammed into the seat, and there was a cry—the [Herald] had almost jumped off his podium. He had to cling to it.
Chaos below. The Lord and Ladies of Lances had either drawn blades or leapt back. Every [Knight] had drawn weapons reflexively.
King Fireth’s eyes had opened fully, and he was leaning back in his throne-like seat. Every hair stood up on the little lion’s body, and gooseflesh was raised on Birnth’s arms.
“The chorus of the damned. What is that?”
One of the Hundredlords whispered hoarsely.
“Not the spell—is it? Get the [Mages] back in here! Lord Cortese, is that you?”
“Yes.”
The simple reply dried Iirn’s mouth. She coughed and had to drink water.
“You—you sound like a thousand voices. What—where are you?”
There was no reply. The Guilty Man was walking, eyes locked on The Lonely Warrior’s back. Even Vofea and Badarrow were staring wide-eyed at him as he spoke with the tongues of every single voice in his column all at once.
“I tried. I had my sword raised to run him through. A comrade, a man I drank with. My brother in arms! My friend until the end. All for what? A [Prince]’s request? Even for you, Majesty. I wish I had never been asked it.”
A gasp ran through the room. Lady Siveris whirled, and the [King] of Kaaz blinked his eyes slowly. His lined face never left the spell.
“Lord Cortese. Are you telling us that the [Prince] of Erribathe prevailed upon Glorious Kaaz to—to murder Ser Solstice before their duel?”
Lord Birnth’s eyes were flicking to the royal dais and then to the nobles frozen at the door. The time to seal the events to the chamber would have been…about ten minutes ago.
The [King] said nothing. But he did make a sound when Prince Retner slowly forced himself to his feet. It took a great effort, but the man stood despite looking stabbed himself.
“Before the royal crown, I refuse part of Hundredlord Cortese’s statements.”
He spoke over the murmur of shock.
“—It was not His Majesty of Kaaz who relayed the request of Prince Iradoren to Hundredlord Cortese. It was I. I take responsibility for the order.”
“To murder a [Knight] from behind?”
Hundredlady Iirn had forgotten her position. The [King] closed his eyes, and it was almost a relief when the ghostly chorus whispered.
The Guilty Man gazed at his friend’s back. He drew his sword, and looked at the beautiful blade. Then he cast it aside.
“I could not. I cannot. Whatever else I see, I could not slay an honorable man from behind. I may never know what honor shines like. But I could not even dream of it if I spilled an innocent man’s blood. Damned either way. I’m…sorry, Your Majesty.”
He gazed up and left his sword where it lay. 
“Aw, swive us sideways. They’re all tossing their swords! We have to pick them up, hurry—”
The Guilty Man puts down his heavy burdens. The Questioning Lord continues in his steps. 
On his throne, the King of Kaaz just sighed, the slight breath the only movement in the room. He lifted a shaking hand in weary benediction.
“It was a suggestion, Lord Cortese. Glorious Kaaz chooses its own way. Fight whatever you are fighting well.”
At that point, he had to gaze at the [Herald] pointedly until the man realized that was a cue to end the spell. There was dead silence. Then Hundredlady Iirn steepled her fingers.
“I…withdraw my complaint against Hundredlord Cortese. I may privately investigate other matters, but, ah—um—shall we recess for fifteen minutes?”
The other Hundredlords and the assembled Lords and Ladies of the Lance stared at her. Prince Retner just stood, leaning against his balcony. He wondered when the first challenge would come.
The King of Kaaz slept.
 
——
 
And then…at last, there was light.
 
(You have finally reached the exit. It has been a long, long time. An age of fighting, but you see the light and feel yourself…dissolving. Something precious is being lost.)
(Your steps falter, but something pushes you onwards. It’s a terrifying feeling, breaking apart. But something tells you—you must. You must continue.)
(Each one of you is hurt, but you walk forwards together. Little toys follow you. A smiling Satyr’s doll riding on a toy wagon. A weary Stitch-girl puppet holding a lantern. You feel as though you owe them a great deal. But at last, it’s over.)
 
The Grim Knight lifts his battered head as he steps into the light. His will unbroken, though his body fails him. Seeking the next obstacle to overcome. His duty is not done.
The Grim Knight vanishes.
The Angry Woman has not yet let go of her rage. But some of it has escaped her. She turns and beckons. Her comrades. She stumbles with the weight of her wounds.
The Questioning Lord supports her shoulder. He looks lighter as they walk towards the light. His eyes roam forwards and back, waiting. There is no right or wrong. Just an answer he may one day find. He hopes it is a good one.
The Angry Woman vanishes.
The Questioning Lord vanishes.
The Weeping Princess is smiling. As if she has accomplished something that means everything to her. She turns and beckons as she twirls, stepping into the light.
The Weeping Princess vanishes.
The Lonely Warrior is last of all, checking for foes from behind. He shoulders his sword, pleased with himself. Then he strides after the others. He’s done it. He’s kept them safe. This time…
The Lonely Warrior vanishes…
 
Rabbiteater stumbled as he came to a halt. Sword on his shoulders, back straight. Armor slightly dented, but unbroken. Triumph singing in his heart.
Until…the dream ended. And he awoke and heard the gasp of a thousand lungs taking breaths of their own accord. A thousand hearts no longer beating in rhythm. And the thousand minds remembering who they were.
The tunnels had not quite ended. The procession of people had simply reached the exit. There was sunlight, just beyond the end of the tunnel, but two walls of stone blocked anyone from going further. The light, mundane, had a pale quality compared to the glow they had been basked in. But it awoke their minds. And it woke him up too.
“What?”
The Goblin Lord of Champions gazed back. And he realized his armor was caked in blood. He smelled the foulness caked onto him, felt his mind reeling as it was suddenly tiny, and the feeling of vast unity left him.
But most of all—he gazed at the line of men and women waking from their vision of him. Covered in wounds he remembered bearing. Filthy. Reduced.
Then, Rabbiteater’s silly dream about fighting monsters like a boy running around with a sword took on the horror the others had realized. His arms, which could lift anything, trembled. His legs quivered.
He would have fallen. Fallen and cried out for the horror of it as he realized each little scattering of stones was a life falling away. For never once waking out of this trap.
Him. The one who should have seen it. The one who could have, should have—
He felt sick with horror. Then his helmeted head rose.
“Brother? Seraphel? Cortese? Menrise?”
Were they all…? Someone sighed next to him, and a hand fell on his shoulders.
“It pretty bad, Brother. Hopefully they not remember you.”
Badarrow. He hadn’t fallen. He seemed—tired. Grim as he flexed his bow, but he was glancing around, nodding back the way they’d come.
“She woke me early. You? Harder. Too important. Was bad. Long, sleeping-death. Maybe not so bad.”
Badarrow thought about it, and the [Sniper] rubbed at his filthy hair.
“…Pretty bad. Brave [Princess], though. Braver than you say.”
“I don’t understand. What?”
Rabbiteater remained on his knees, but the [Sniper] just shouldered the bow.
“Can’t say. Too many big words. I go. You hate me, bad Goblin, remember?”
He strode ahead, and Rabbiteater never wished to drop the act more than now. He almost reached for Badarrow’s leg, but someone else rushed over and tried to help him stand.
“Rabbiteater! Are you alright? We made it.”
Seraphel. She was smiling. How, he didn’t know. Rabbiteater stood more out of shock than anything. He saw, now, many people had collapsed like him. Like puppets with strings cut. They were weeping, clawing at their faces, or just staring in shock at…nothing.
Where there should have been more members of the party, the group that had left Throne’s Will—half remained? He didn’t know. Couldn’t count.
How many had died? Each and every monster they’d fought took on a sickening light in Rabbiteater’s mind. Just—just standing there while they—and he had barely used Skills.
He’d thought he was invincible. Or at least, that they weren’t hurting him badly. And maybe they hadn’t hurt ‘him’ badly. Because he’d been so many people. But hundreds had died. Over a thousand. Over two—
His gorge rose, then, and he did puke. He, who was a Redfang and who had never been sick from any battle or foul sight. Seraphel held him urgently.
“Are you alright? Is it malnutrition? We made it. We must all rest. Vofea—Vofea! I think Rabbiteater’s ill!”
She called out. Rabbiteater didn’t get it. He seized Seraphel’s arm before she could dash off.
“What’s wrong with you?”
He meant ‘why aren’t you screaming’? There were screams of horror, like the one rising in his chest. She gave him a wide-eyed stare, one so full of guilt and relief that he let go despite himself.
“I…I woke up early. I tried to save as many as possible. I couldn’t. I wish you had, Rabbiteater. If only you had…I did my best. Truly. I’m so sorry.”
Then her eyes filled with tears. Rabbiteater just stood there. The [Cursed Princess] began to weep.
“I did! But I couldn’t even bury…”
A Satyr ran over with a pail of soup and bandages. Seraphel began confessing her sins, her inability to fight, the fact that she’d only been able to uncurse one person at a time even after levelling to Rabbiteater’s face.
As if she were the one at fault. She, the one who had acted while he got people killed, thinking he was on a grand adventure.
I strode into the dungeon and said I knew what to do. And I fell for the trap. The Goblin’s gauntleted hands scraped over the bare stone.
Dead.
Captain Ennerev was walking down the line of men and women, who were still following ‘their’ colors, still coming back to reality. Calling out names.
“Senson? Swam? Jorchi? Nerne?”
Searching for his people. His face was stricken. Others were performing a similar muster.
Ser Thilowen stood, sword bared, cleaning it. His face betrayed only mild shock, but it was rigid with control. Even looking at him, Rabbiteater felt a name pop into his head.
The Grim Knight. He had never known Ser Thilowen had that unyielding will. He’d thought the man was just a fussy Thronebearer. But even now, the senior [Knight] was speaking.
“Thronebearers, all those of the Radiance will find and count those belonging to their squads. Prepare for combat. Secure this location. Now.”
Then he sheathed his sword and began striding around, dragging any officer above a [Sergeant]’s rank into a meeting. He was not the only one with his faculties about him.
Revi, Ksmvr, Lady Menrise, Badarrow all had ‘woken’ and, like Vofea, were shaky, but knew what was going on. Indeed, Revi and Ksmvr were the ones making soup.
“Food is essential. A lack of liquids and proper hydration was one of the most dangerous elements of this maze. Along with the monsters.”
The [Summoner] had even put up two [Stone Walls] to block the entrance, and several summoned Stitch-warriors were on lookout. Badarrow climbed over one of the walls and stealthed his way up the corridor as Rabbiteater watched. Vofea was adding as she found something.
“And soap! All of you stink of shit. And it’s in your pants.”
“Yeah, well, food first, then cleaning. We’ll drop dead from empty stomachs, not bad trousers. Believe me, I’ve had to stakeout Griffins before.”
Revi snapped back, and Vofea gagged.
“I think I want t’ quit being an adventurer.”
“Sadly, Adventurer Vofea, you are now a Horn of Hammerad. Quitting at this point is infeasible.”
“Drat. How d’we wash ourselves, anyways?”
“Rain spells, rookie. But if there’s an actual damn army up there, we’re fighting. Unless we can just run for it…”
The fact that other people were moving, acting, and there was danger forced Rabbiteater to his feet. He spoke to Seraphel as vomit dripped from his visor.
“Where’s Cortese. Menrise?”
“I think—there. Cortese. Cortese, are you alright?”
Menrise was in fact casting [Cleanse] on people with a wand. She turned and threw her arms around Seraphel.
“You did it, Seraphel! Rabbiteater—oh dear. [Cleanse].”
She waved it over his helmet, and a gaunt-faced man spoke.
“Menrise, the Jungle Tails army is above. Don’t waste your mana.”
“Cortese, I am not going to die with my underwear soiled. I will have fresh underwear to soil when we fight, or none at all.”
Menrise retorted, and there was the faintest of chuckles. Rabbiteater was shocked, but despite his haggard face, his stubble grown to a short beard, and his own bad state—Lord Cortese didn’t appear as horrified as Rabbiteater.
He seemed…shriven. His sword belt was empty, but he nodded at Rabbiteater.
The Guilty Man—no, The Questioning Lord stuck his hands in his pockets. He bowed to Seraphel.
“Your Highness, we owe you all if what Menrise is telling me is correct. I hope to repay you. This has been a disaster of the sort I could never imagine, and I grew up in the Infinite Dungeon! Dead gods. Even Floor 80 isn’t this bad. I thought I knew dungeons, but this?”
He shook his head.
“This is adventuring. I fear I’ve also jeopardized the crown’s authority in Kaaz. If my memory serves.”
He brushed his hand over his eyes. Then just shrugged.
“It is done, and better for it. Let the truth air out the rot. Rabbiteater. I’m glad you’re well.”
He even mustered a smile as he looked at Rabbiteater. As if seeing the [Knight] alive and in one piece mattered more than the dead. Rabbiteater just rasped.
“We failed them. I let them die instead of—”
“Yes. We did.”
That was all Lord Cortese said. Somehow, that bluntness helped. Rabbiteater saw the Hundredlord square his shoulders.
“How many did we lose?”
“I don’t know. Hundreds. Over a thousand, I fear. M-most of the [Knights] survived. They had armor.”
“So the [Sailors] and colonists would have gotten the worst of it.”
Cortese closed his eyes, and Rabbiteater felt sick again. Seraphel pointed urgently as she lowered her voice.
“Vofea did so much before I woke. It’s thanks to her that we’re alive. She…prioritized some. That’s why Dakelos and so on are alive. He broke his leg. Anyone she thought was in danger, like Mariel or Beacle, she tied up in the wagons.”
She pointed, and Rabbiteater saw that many familiar faces were there. Dame Neranthei was untying Beacle and Mariel, and Admiral Dakelos was swearing like the [Sailor] he was.
Of the survivors he knew, the two that seemed most destroyed were actually, well, the undead.
Strategist Veine and Clatterface were sitting and facing a wall. They were so dejected that Rabbiteater pointed.
“Even the undead…?”
“They have feelings. I think I saw Veine trying to get Clatterface to stab her. Don’t blame yourself too much, Rabbiteater. It was a miracle Seraphel got out of it, and Vofea’s special, apparently. Oh! And there’s an Elder Creler somewhere around here, but Seraphel says that it’s not hatched yet.”
“What?”
Cortese reached for the sword sheath, and Rabbiteater’s skin crawled. Menrise clapped her hands together.
“Sorry. I forgot, what with the army of Lizardfolk above us. C’mon, Cortese. We have to tell Thilowen.”
And like that, they were back to war. At least Rabbiteater could fight, but he felt like such a failure…he just stood there as Seraphel glanced at him.
“You’re not badly hurt under there, are you, Rabbiteater? We couldn’t heal you, and I didn’t think you got badly—”
“I’m fine. No one else is. I’m tough. I should have gotten hurt. Not them.”
“It wasn’t your…”
She hesitated, closed her mouth, and he felt bad for being abrupt with her. Rabbiteater turned.
“You were the important one, not me. Good job.”
He knew how bad it was when she smiled, and then her face fell.
“Don’t thank me. I could have done so much more. If I only had…”
He couldn’t handle this. The Goblin Lord was about to run, screaming at something, when he heard a slurping sound. He turned, and Seraphel stared at a crouching knight awkwardly slurping the red from Rabbiteater’s cloak.
“…Rivel?”
The Vampire had made it. He gasped, and his head rose as he fell on his butt.
“Sorry. I—I was starving—”
He didn’t look much worse than anyone else; his armor had doubtless protected him as well as his superhuman healing factor, but he seemed starved for blood. Rabbiteater silently tossed his cloak at Rivel. Then he sat down.
“I thought I could do anything. So stupid.”
Seraphel gingerly rested a hand on his shoulder.
“I couldn’t even kill a monster when I woke up. If you had—”
“Don’t.”
They remained there, in silence, as Rivel slurped the blood in the shadows without saying a word. After a while, someone came to find them.
“Your Highness. Ser Solstice. We are deliberating on our next course of action. The Goblin has reported that elements of Jungle Tails are camped around the entrance. Though they are in disarray. Her Highness’…Creler attack seems to have still left a mark.”
“The what?”
“Four Adult Crelers.”
Rabbiteater stared at Seraphel with much the same expression as Thilowen, but they were past questions. Without a word, the Hobgoblin stood. He saw Strategist Veine’s ghost was giving orders, her face now a mask of concentration. Ser Thilowen stood with her, checking his reflection in the mirror. He grimaced at his missing ear, then nodded along to her words.
“We must sleep. I do not care if it is [Sleep] spells—that is our only edge. The moment we emerge from the tunnel, we are dead. But I truly think they don’t know we are right here. They’ve pulled back far from the entrance of the ruins, doubtless out of caution…”
So it was going to be a battle? Rabbiteater shook his head. They were exhausted, worn out—but there was a crazy kind of relief a Redfang understood.
Fighting. That was simpler than dealing with living. Seraphel whispered.
“Can we fight? Can you, even if we level?”
He shrugged his shoulders.
“I can do this. I hope. Especially if I level. Enough [Knights] to fight. With me, Badarrow, Cortese leading, Revi, Ksmvr, even that Admiral guy…”
Rivel would fight with the Thronebearers. Rabbiteater cast around and realized he was missing someone.
“Where’s Markus?”
The [Princess] clasped her hands together as his head turned, looking for the lone member of the Order of Seasons. She gestured.
“He’s with the wounded. Let him rest, Rabbiteater.”
He nodded, relieved. She and Vofea had protected so many. The people he knew. The ones he cared about. He put a hand on his sword hilt, then half-turned.
“Seraphel—”
He eyed her. Then he pointed a finger at her.
“Do something again. I’m counting on you.”
He walked on without seeing her face change. The Goblin Lord focused. He had to make up for his failures. And he meant what he had said, of course. At this point, he wasn’t sure who was more important.
 
——
 
Dragonfire General Rithix hated Crelers. Not a unique point of view, but he personally lit up the insides of the last one with blue flames. Then spat.
“I want a kill-team formed for the Elder Creler.”
“Do we have the levels for one?”
“Tell the Wyrmtouched.”
Even with their champion, he doubted it was a good feat to try, but just the thought of it being down there made his scales itch. Four Adults had been bad enough, though.
More than bad enough. It was not just their insane destructive capabilities magnified by four—one was so much easier to contain. Nor the three swarms of Baby Crelers.
No, it was the damn concentration of force that had overwhelmed the elements of his army guarding that exit. Even then, he could have killed the Adult Crelers, but that was not how they operated.
The moment they’d realized there were more [Soldiers] than they could handle, they’d tried to go to ground. The last few days had been a desperate hide-and-seek to wipe out every Creler before they could burrow away and form a nest that would devour everything in a year’s time.
Bloody damned work on top of casualties from fighting the Iron Vanguard. The Dragonfire General didn’t like this mission. He did not like the report from the scout teams who’d been incompetent enough to trust the [Princess]. But mostly?
He didn’t like his [Strategic Appraisal] of the situation.
Rithix fancied he was no fool. He’d never taken the Titan of Baleros’ classes, as any loyalist to Jungle Tails hated the Titan, but he didn’t scorn the greatest [Strategist] either. He’d bought Niers’ books, read them. Memorized the pithy sage advice that sounded simple until you had to do it when it mattered most.
Like: ‘expect surprises’. Or ‘don’t underestimate the foe’. Easy to say that anyone could do it. But he really, truly, hadn’t been prepared for a Creler swarm to come at his people.
Thus, the Dragonfire General considered whether or not he was erring now in attempting to finish his mission. The facts on the paper were good. He had brought thirty thousand soldiers to drive off the Iron Vanguard and capture the Calanferians. More than enough.
They were a mixed force from a single warship, no matter how big—many would be [Sailors] or [Colonists]. They were tired, fighting in unfamiliar terrain, and the Mindscape Ruins had chewed them up if all the bodies indicated anything.
However…Rithix was no arrogant commander. He was no battle-worthy Gorgon. No Lamia of intelligence and wit.
He was a Lizardman. Or at least, that’s what he looked like. It made many Nagas under his command unhappy, even if they knew he could change. It sometimes led to funny-unfunny moments where a Naga gave him orders.
Right now, Dragonfire General Rithix was moving as part of the line infantry in a column, marching towards where the Calanferians should be located. He looked like any other Lizardfolk with yellow, radiant scales and a beautifully fiery neck crest. Only, he could breathe fire, and his armor was quite a lot better than theirs, just scuffed up to look worse.
These were the precautions of a [General] who did not want to have Three Color Stalker assassinate him on the march…or her many agents. He gave orders under his breath into speaking stones as the infantry, his bodyguard, chattered around him.
“Every Creler-hunting detachment, perform one final sweep for buried stragglers then mark your zones. We’ll have a nest-burning team sweep aftwards. Move at all speed to the Calanferian entrance. Who is the commander in charge of the location?”
“Gorgon Axtrizak, sir.”
The same idiot in charge of the scouting teams. Rithix grunted.
“Tell him [I Have a Bad Feeling]. He is to prepare for combat. Troops, [Quick March].”
He burned a Skill as he received acknowledgements. Rithix was thinking. What he was thinking were two things.
One—he had spread his army out too far hunting the Adult Crelers, but they had to kill them. They were now reforming, but bringing the brunt of their forces to bear on a Calanferian force would be difficult for up to a day or two. Given the spread-out nature of his forces, that would lead to a lack of a hammer’s blow.
Jungle fighting was always like this. It favored forces who could concentrate their might. Like, say, a smaller group of Calanferians led by a high-level [Knight] and [Lord].
He didn’t like that.
Second, and more crucially, the numbers favored his army. The strife the Calanferians had gone through must have whittled their forces down greatly. Both factual statements. But as the Titan said: second-guess yourself. What are you missing?
Rithix pretended to grin and nudge one of his bodyguards.
“Oi, Champers.”
“Yeah, Rithi?”
The Lizardman slung an arm around Rithix’s shoulders. Rithix voiced his thought out loud.
“If you were, say, being beat down by every monster in a death-zone, and all your friends were dying, but you miraculously made it out…how many levels do you think that’s worth?”
Champers’ grin froze on his face, and the rest of the infantry marching with Rithix began swearing. The Dragonfire General clicked a speaking stone.
“Illex Twiceborn should be moving to the Calanferian’s exit. Tell him to move double-time, even if he has to break cover.”
“Acknowledged!”
Of course…this could all just be him overblowing the problem. Perhaps the Calanferians would come out and surrender or they’d taken too much damage. General Rithix marched fast, but he knew he was half a day away from the exit. When his speaking stone chirped and he heard the first contact alarms, then a [Strategist]’s report, he just grunted.
When it rains in Baleros, it pours. And it always rains.
 
——
 
The [Knight] was the first one out of the tunnels. He did not emerge like a hero from stories. The moment he came out of the tunnels, he dove into a roll and came up, shield raised.
The arrows glanced off his armor, but the thing that was really alarming was that he’d run through three layers of trap spells at the entrance by himself. As his head rose, the Lizardfolk [Soldiers] shouted in alarm.
“It’s him! It’s that guy! Ser Solstice!”
They were excited to see someone from television. Less so about what was coming next. The Nagas slithered down their ranks.
“Prepare to fight! Stop slinging stones, fools, he’s out of range! The Dragonfire General is on the way! They’re practically dead on their feet!”
Lizardfolk hiding behind walls of dirt peeked out at the lone [Knight] as his head surveyed the area. He didn’t look dead on his feet. He seemed, in fact, pretty scary. They could feel something around him. Something nostalgic, like the call of home. Their mother’s cooking.
Were those arrows…bouncing off the air around him? A group of [Archers] swallowed. They hesitated until the Naga leading them snapped at them to loose! Then their commander hissed.
“The Calanferians are coming. We have the terrain advantage! Hold positions and slaughter them!”
The Lizardfolk had dug into formations around the entrance. The moment any Calanferian group came out, they’d be hit from all sides. And there were plenty of soldiers, even if most of the army was off chasing Crelers.
“Aim for the others! Don’t focus on that [Knight]! Let the [Mages] handle him!”
The [Archer Captain] shouted. Sure enough, Lamias and Lizardfolk were waving wands and staves to the right. The [Knight] finished casting around. He started running at the first formation of Lizardfolk.
“Uh oh. He’s fast. Like, Courier fast. What level is he?”
The Lizardfolk saw the [Knight] accelerating. He almost left an afterimage. He was going straight for the [Mages], who were a lot less happy as they began casting.
“[Fireball Volley]!”
Commander Axtrizak shouted, and the first [Fireballs] roared down at the [Knight]. They were scattered for maximum damage even if they didn’t hit him—the ground whumphed, and dirt flew skywards. Before it landed, the [Knight] emerged out of the smoke.
Still running. Was he getting faster? The [Soldiers] dug into their walls braced. Two squads were ready for him, prepared to pincer—
The [Knight] ran past them. They hadn’t expected that. Cursing, the Gorgon shouted.
“Spears, [Get Into Position]! [Mages]—[Grand Lightning]! Cook that Human in his armor!”
The [Mages] poured all their mana into a single Lamia with a spellbook. Sweating, the [Battlemage] raised his staff, and it blazed with searing light. He took aim as the [Knight] ran at him.
Was there a crimson glow between the slits in that helmet? He looked really angry. Some of the [Archers] began to move back despite themselves.
The [Battlemage] unleashed the [Grand Lightning] spell, and the [Knight] leapt. Into the streak of lightning! The oversized bolt of lightning flashed and…halted. It tore the air, and one of the Lizardfolk saw something impossible.
She swore she saw the [Knight] reach out, grab part of the [Grand Lightning] as if it were solid…then throw it back at the [Battlemage].
But that was impossible, even for—
The explosion knocked everyone near the [Mages] off their feet. When the Lizardgirl got up, she didn’t see the [Mages]. She did see the [Knight].
He was in their backlines. A stunned Naga [Captain] uncoiled from his defensive posture. He pointed a spear.
“Get—”
The [Champion]’s sword glinted. He pierced the Naga’s chest with a thrust that was like a blade of light had extended from his blade. Then he turned.
“Solstice to Cortese. [Mages] cleared. Taking out the archers.”
“You heard him! Go!”
The [Archers] saw the [Knight] charging them. And then there were horns.
“The Calanferians are emerging! Hit them!”
“They’ve got a magic shield! The [Knight] is in our backlines! We need reinforcements! Where’s Twiceborn?”
The Gorgon was bellowing.
“Keep them contained! They’re civilians and [Sailors]! Half of them can’t fight—”
Then his shouting stopped. The Calanferians were coming out of the tunnels fast. And—
The cowering [Archer] girl was waiting for the [Knight] to behead her when one of the other [Archers] yanked her down.
“[Quick Concealment]! Keep quiet.”
Aiche, one of the [Hunters] assigned to the squad as punishment duty, squatted down with the Lizardgirl as the rest of the [Archers] fled the [Knight] rampaging through their lines. The [Huntress] was the only one who seemed to understand. Aiche paled.
“Oh no. They’re still acting like they’re unified. Commander—!”
She reached for a speaking stone she didn’t have.
 
——
 
“Up! Up! Get into formation!”
Dame Neranthei was bellowing from the rear. Seraphel was not allowed near the front. But she could see everyone moving.
Everyone.
[Knights] and [Soldiers], but colonists too. They’d been given weaponry and armor and then followed. Perhaps it wasn’t in their nature or training, but it was easy. The Lizardfolk’s eyes were huge as they saw the Humans they had laughed at running at them. Throwing themselves forwards with a passion that not even the most battle-hardened [Mercenaries] could match.
The helpless despair and shock of it all—a [Peasant] woman ducked a spear thrust, clinging to life with all the desperate strength she had. She slashed with a sword, screaming, and she was one of hundreds.
Ser Thilowen led a band of [Knights] forwards, supporting the onslaught and targeting high-level officers and [Mages], but it was Lord Cortese and Lady Menrise who stormed forwards without end. And Rabbiteater, of course.
That was Lord Cortese and Strategist Veine’s battleplan. They did not have the time nor training to pull off more coordinated maneuvers. But this?
Strategist Veine was bellowing across the speaking stone. She’d gone above; Clatterface was here with Neranthei, bodyguarding Seraphel. Everyone else was fighting. Revi, Rivel, even Dakelos was in charge of the wounded.
Ksmvr and Vofea had vanished. Veine shouted.
“Lord Cortese, follow Ser Solstice’s advance then break rightwards! Lady Menrise, you will take the western flank! Ser Thilowen, break their lines and take out the [Mages] on the right flank! [Mark Targets]! Find me their Dragonfire General if he is on the field! Summoner Revi, the rear!”
The shriek of a Face-Eater Moth engaging the Lizardfolk forces on one side made Seraphel’s breath come faster.
“We…we have to do something.”
“Your Highness, wait. Lord Cortese is charging.”
She could hear him, but—Seraphel ran after the last group moving upwards. Dakelos was swearing as he tried to use crutches to ascend the tunnel. She saw Lord Cortese leading a wave of people at the Lizardfolk trying to encircle Rabbiteater.
“Kaaz and Calanfer! [Formation: Cat’s Grace]! [Savage Offensive]!”
The Questioning Lord charged into the surprised Lizardfolk. He delivered 281 damage! The Lizardfolk delivered 55 damage—
“Archers! Push! Don’t let them contain you! Your Highness, get down!”
An arrow glanced off Seraphel’s circlet, and she flinched. Strategist Veine was howling at her. She could see Menrise firing spells as she led her people out—
The Angry Woman ignored the arrows landing around her. She had to push up the slopes! She took 41 damage—
No, this was no vision nor a game. Seraphel heard a curse. Then someone rose from a [Wall of Stone] spell and loosed.
Another [Archer Captain] fell as Badarrow shot them through the neck in their position in the trees. He swivelled as Rabbiteater spoke.
“I see a [Strategist]. Way back in the trees. [Brother, Hit That Target].”
Badarrow grinned. He swivelled around, aimed his bow up, up—closed his eyes, and loosed. Then he waited as he pulled an arrow out of his quiver. By the time he’d drawn it to his bow and found another target, the [Strategist] was dead.
 
——
 
Rithix was marching faster as he listened to the analysis from the backup [Tactician]. He was still wincing after the scream from his primary [Strategist].
“They’re fighting like Hydras. They must have slept—their levels—”
“Commander, I have an entire unit of Medusae on your location in five. Do not engage that [Knight]. Shield the Medusae and have them petrify him! Where is Twiceborn?”
His claws were ticking against his armor. Illex Twiceborn was overconfident, but he’d slain the Eternal Noble in the last battle—though that wasn’t saying much, there was always another. But if anyone had the levels…he heard a panicked transmission at last.
“We are under attack! Dragonfire General—we’ve been ambushed!”
Rithix hated the Titan being right. He cursed. Illex was supposed to be in cover like him! Unless that idiot had shown off, even a fast-moving Lizardfolk company shouldn’t draw that much attention!
How?
 
——
 
“You’re sure it’s him, Vofea?”
Ksmvr’s invisibility cloak shimmered as they crouched behind it. The Satyr peered at the ordinary-looking Lizardman laughing with a bunch of his comrades as they ran down the forest trail.
At first glance, the Antinium couldn’t see anything odd about him until he noted the weird armor the Lizardman appeared to wear and how the other Lizardfolk deferred to his every action. Then it was obvious, but he would not have seen it but for Vofea. The Satyr’s eyes were locked onto him.
“Think so. Fate’s all—”
“Mucked up, yes, yes. But he appears to be the [General]?”
“Eh…or someone important. Things matter if he fights or dies.”
“I see.”
Ksmvr nodded. He checked his gear, then murmured.
“No healing potions. I shall have to recover some from the enemy. You remain in cover.”
“I could hurl rocks at—”
“No. You are not ready for this.”
And you are? But the Satyr just watched as Ksmvr crouched. His cloak swirled around him.
She never saw him jump. The Lizardfolk group was still laughing when the Lizardman who glowed in her eyes jerked. He swivelled, shouting—and red blood sprayed from his chest. Vofea distinctly heard Ksmvr curse—there was a plume of leaves as he hit the ground, swords sweeping around him.
Lizardfolk fell and died as their formation broke apart in screams.
“Three Color Stalker! Run!”
“Ambush! Am—”
The Lizardman who’d dodged Ksmvr’s attacks was feeling at his chest. He was cut deep, but he appeared more impressed than anything else.
“Whoa. That nearly got me. How’d you know I was there? I did everything the Dragonfire General said.”
Ksmvr didn’t reply. His swords lifted, and he spun into a silver flicker like a whirlwind of metal. The Lizardman grinned.
There was a clash of steel, and Vofea blinked. Then she winced.
“Ooh. Told ya.”
The Lizardman had changed. A six-armed Naga was slithering upwards, grinning. That explained why he’d had such weird-looking armor; they’d been sword sheaths! Ksmvr backed up, flicking his swords out.
“Ah. It would appear you are a superior Naga type. A six-armed Rhilis.”
Illex Twiceborn’s eyes widened. He chuckled, and his voice was a lot deeper.
“Ksmvr of Chandrar. I was hoping I could get your autograph! I’m way more than a Rhilis. I’m Illex Twiceborn. If we had Named-ranks in the army, that’s me.”
One of his thumbs jerked towards his chest. The Antinium darted in with a cut, and the Naga recoiled, slashing back with two arms.
“Whoa! Hey, don’t we get to talk? You know, this isn’t even my final form.”
Ksmvr danced backwards. He tilted his head.
“Really? You are a much-vaunted second-form Naga? Then I am to assume your speed, toughness, and strength will undergo a second stage of power?”
Illex grinned, flexing one arm.
“That’sssss right.”
“Amazing.”
“Thanks! You know, if you surrender I’ll make sure you’re treated great. Not just anyone knows about second-evolution Nagas. And—aw, c’mon.”
Ksmvr jumped. Illex recoiled, then lazily swung his blades up in a guard, slithering towards where Ksmvr was landing. He gave Vofea the chills.
Dangerous. But Ksmvr’s voice was calm. He twisted in the air as the Naga made to cut him as he landed. Then the [Skirmisher]’s hands flashed—his swords vanished, and he pulled out two crossbows.
“[Weapon Art: Aggregate Volley].”
He fired both crossbows, a second set, a third—ten crossbows fired in an instant, and the enchanted bolts hit Illex’s swords. Vofea fancied she saw the Naga try to dodge; he certainly blocked.
“Gaaaaaah!”
The scream from Illex’s throat was furious. Somehow, he blocked one of Ksmvr’s swords as the [Skirmisher] came in with an attack. The other slashed deep across one of Illex’s arms, but the armor stopped the blade from sinking in too deep.
The other Lizardfolk were backing away from the two high-level combatants, but they peeked back as Illex roared. Ksmvr’s swords were ringing as Illex swept the blades and forced the Antinium back.
“That’s it! You get the second form fight now.”
His face contorted, and his scales changed from orange to a deeper red. His shoulders cracked—and Ksmvr threw something at Illex.
“Wh—”
The acid jar exploded as Ksmvr shot it in midair and hit Illex. This time, his scream was drawn out, and Ksmvr hopped backwards.
“I assume you carry over damage into your ‘second form’. Also: transforming in battle is a known weakness. Let us duel indeed, Illex.”
He swept his cloak around himself as Vofea almost began to cheer and then clapped her hands over her mouth. The furious Naga roared.
“I’m going to EAT you, Ksmvr of Chandrar!”
He lunged out of the steam, mouth open, still transforming, and Ksmvr was running. Illex Twiceborn saw Ksmvr sprinting in the greatest tradition of the Horns of Hammerad, arms pumping, not even holding his swords.
“COWARD!”
“Your form is highly ineffective! Most Lizardfolk are more aesthetically pleasing than you!”
Ksmvr’s insults seemed to work as the enraged Naga chased after him. He was fast—but Ksmvr leapt into the trees, just slow enough for the Naga to slither towards him. If Illex caught up to Ksmvr’s ability to bound from tree to tree, the Antinium had told Vofea he would assess Illex’s danger if the acid jar hadn’t done enough damage. But what he said he’d probably do was just use the cloak to vanish.
Vofea grinned as she began to stealth her way back to the rest of the fighting. One piece off the board…
 
——
 
Dragonfire General Rithix felt the momentum swinging Calanfer’s way. It wasn’t numbers; most of his army wasn’t even in place. It was the lack of pieces to throw to slow Ser Solstice’s rampage. Morale.
Timing.
But he had reached the battlefield at last. The [General] halted on a hill and fished a spyglass out. He could see the distant fighting. He began to activate Skills.
“Lindclaw Captain, [Countercharge]! All forces on the southern flank, fall back. Don’t bother engaging the summons. [Perfect Dispel].”
The giant Shield Spider winked out, and the battlefield stabilized slightly. But that [Knight]…Rithix swung the spyglass around.
“…That’s not a regular Level 40 [Knight]. Commander, where are my Medusae?”
“Almost in position, sir!”
“Focus on the [Knight]! Bring him down now!”
Thirty Medusae did not raise bows nor cast spells. They just did the most effective thing they were known for.
They stared, and all they gazed at turned to stone. It wasn’t as powerful as Gazers, but massed…Rithix saw the [Knight] slowing, turning. The people around him froze or fell over. First paralysis, then petrification.
Even then, he kept moving, charging the Medusae. Rithix heard a breathless voice.
“Dragonfire General, his resistance—!”
“I see it. Commander!”
Just in time, the [Knight]’s charge ran into a squad of ten Gorgons. The towering Nagas, one of their strongest forms, slammed into him with long catch-poles. Not to hurt him, just hold him back while keeping themselves safe. The Medusae kept staring.
His flailing was slowing. He didn’t appear to have a counter to this one. The Dragonfire General’s teeth were grinding together.
“Come on. Come on…”
He felt like the Titan was laughing at him. Then he swore he saw…
Blue.
The [Knight]’s faltering flailing grew more violent. He pivoted and cut a Gorgon across one arm. Then tore free of the catchpoles.
“Medusae! What’s happening?”
They weren’t responding. Commander Axtrizak’s voice crackled over the speaking stone.
“Dragonfire General! They’ve stopped fighting! They’re—they’re—weeping? What are you doing, fools?”
Then Rithix saw the blue haze rising upwards, and his scales chilled. Always something new. He hated counterlevelling.
 
——
 
The Weeping Princess arises! She’s crying…but smiling? She stands in the battlefield, and her tears stain the grass.
The Eyes of Stone can’t stop crying. What’s going on? Help. Help…
 
Curses. The [Princess] lay in a circle of steel, protected by her [Bodyguards], tears falling from her eyes. Across from her, Rabbiteater ripped free of the trap. The Medusae did nothing.
They were caught in the curse of the Mindscape Ruins. The [Cursed Princess] lay there as Dakelos muttered an oath.
Do you see, Cara? I’m doing something the only way I can.
 
——
 
“The army is beset by madness. They’ve carried it out of the ruins.”
Dragonfire General Rithix saw the Medusae swaying in place. He lowered his spyglass, and counted his vanguard. Made an assessment of how many troops could reach his position within the hour. Spoke.
“Commander Axtrizak.”
“General?”
“Slay that [Knight]. [Unleash Your Potential]. All forces, screen his charge. Gorgons, reinforce the commander.”
“Yes, General! For the Eyes!”
Gleefully, the Gorgon abandoned his hiding place and shot towards Ser Solstice, slithering over the grass, twin scimitars raised. He roared a challenge, and the [Knight] disengaged from the Gorgon squad he was hacking apart.
“Commander, attack with the G—”
Rithix fell silent. It didn’t matter. The two had locked eyes, and he doubted his commander could hear him. They shot towards each other, and the Dragonfire General’s eyes narrowed.
A [Knight], running like a sprinter, feet tearing up the ground. Dropping his shield to hold his sword two-handed. The Gorgon commander, mouth open, fangs bared, swords rising to slash in a diagonal.
Rithix thought he could hear the roaring voice from here. Or perhaps it was that presence. Like a raging flame burning the entire battlefield, drawing the eye. He knew he felt the impact. The Dragonfire General watched, then collapsed his telescope.
“All forces, prepare to retreat. [Cut the Tail, Save the Body]. [Slingers], [Harassing Fire]. Regroup at Rendezvous Point 5. I want mounted units moving ahead of the Calanferians…”
There was no sense in engaging that. Not without a proper formation and Illex.
The Dragonfire General was composing his analysis and report to the Wyrmtouched as he glanced back at the battlefield. The [Knight] was standing over the Gorgon he’d cleaved in two as the front lines collapsed. Rithix shook his head. Then pivoted.
“Nagas—”
The arrow pinged off his helmet. He dove as the rest of his bodyguard threw up shields. Rithix shouted.
“[Sniper]! Hide your eyes! Pull back down the hill!”
Definitely not a battlefield he wanted. The Dragonfire General kept his head down as they retreated. He’d rather lose what he had now than risk his own head and his army’s. He began the first line of his missive in his head.
 
To the Wyrmtouched:
There is no amount of gold worth engaging that lot. Kindly provide another reason or…
 
——
 
Madness. Triumph. Seraphel du Marquin was counting the dead. Lizardfolk and Human.
“We…have paid a heavy price for victory.”
Lord Cortese was panting as they gathered around with the Lizardfolk who had surrendered sitting on the ground. They were terrified, especially of Ser Solstice, but Strategist Veine barely glanced at them.
“It isn’t over. If that commander has any sense, he’s regrouping for a second attack. We must keep marching.”
“After all that? We just keep going?”
Lady Menrise’s voice cracked. She pointed at the place they had just escaped, and the army eyed each other.
They were an army now. Not a single colonist hadn’t fought in that battle. But the Mindscape Ruins might have broken them. Seraphel wondered if she, herself, had lost something in there.
Even all the blood and death around her wasn’t the same as that horror she’d felt. She had a dagger in hand, though she hadn’t used it. If she needed to…she would have.
It was the [Princess] who spoke as Lord Cortese rubbed at his face, not sure what to say to Menrise. Seraphel had been searching the sea of faces; the one person she was checking for she would have known as well as her sisters.
“There you are. I feared you were dead or—or—I’m glad.”
The [Princess] walked forwards and hugged the woman who stood with a cortege of shell-shocked men and women in rough clothes. The woman jumped. She stammered.
“Y-your Highness? Are you mistaken?”
Seraphel peered at her face.
“How could I be? You’re Gilthisa, aren’t you?”
“Yes, but—”
Every eye swung to her, and Gilthisa stiffened. The ruins. Her grief. Seraphel whispered.
“I’m sorry. It was your memory, but I saw it. We all did. How could I not…I feel like I know you. I’m so dreadfully glad you’re not hurt. You and I, we must be friends. And we must clear your name publicly and—and—”
The [Diligent Peasant] was shocked. Overwhelmed. She stammered, trying to force Seraphel back.
“Your Highness, no! I—I saw too much as well; forgive me! Those terrible, terrible marriages you suffered. The horror of it. It was wrong. It was—”
She hesitated. Ser Thilowen was gazing at Seraphel, and Gilthisa’s lips snapped shut. But her eyes were locked on Seraphel. What could the [Princess] say? Seraphel smiled.
“It was my memory. But without detail, context, anything of me in it. True enough, but we’re both strangers. So we must get to know each other. All of us.”
Seraphel looked around, panting.
“We must continue, mustn’t we? Together. We cannot—cannot even bury the others. I am so very sorry, but if we perish now…”
What was it all for? She bowed her head, mistaking their expressions for judgement.
“I’m sorry. I just…”
“No. You’re right.”
Rabbiteater spoke in a gravelly voice. He lifted a fist as Ksmvr reappeared, panting. The Antinium hesitated—then fist-bumped Rabbiteater without a word. They locked eyes and nodded at each other.
A bond, tenuous but forged in trauma and emotion and their journey. Strategist Veine clapped her hands together.
“Right then. Strip the dead for anything usable and pile it here. We’ll collect every horse we can and march within the hour. I need a runner to ransom these [Soldiers]. And if we’re lucky, one of them will be willing to turncoat for directions, at least.”
The spell broken, everyone began getting to work. Seraphel thought she’d be sort of useless again except she knew how to bandage a wound, so she was gathering cloth for that when she saw someone in the kneeling ranks of Lizardfolk. She stopped, then pointed.
“Her. She knows this place.”
Aiche started and tried to hide her face, but it was too late. With a dreadful sense of irony, she rose as Veine raised her brows. Seraphel smiled at her, and the Lizardwoman shivered.
I’m amidst mad Humans. All of them.
“Are you…really cursed?”
All the Calanferians gasped as they looked at the [Princess], but Seraphel just smiled. She offered Aiche a weary smile.
“Who knows. But if I am…I’ve made it a weapon.”
She grinned and didn’t see Badarrow nudge Rabbiteater. All of them were wearing a Goblin’s smile.
 
[Class Change: Cursed Princess → Curse Bearer Princess!]
[Curse Bearer Princess Level 35!]
[Skill – Quick Bandage Obtained!]
[Skill – Eviscerate the Unguarded Obtained!]
[Skill – Compelling Presence Obtained!]
[Skill – No Curse Lasts Forever Obtained!]
 
[Title – Escaped the Fervored Strataveins Granted!]
[Title Skill – Unit: Marionette’s Action Granted!]
 
[Title – Creler Mocker Obtained!]
[Title Reward – Clean Crelerchitin Dagger Awarded!]
 
[Brave Skirmisher Level 39!]
[Skill – Masterful Ambush Obtained!]
[Skill – Adventurer’s Field Alchemy Obtained!]
[Recipe: Yuck Bomb Obtained!]
[Recipe: Poison Blood Oil Obtained!]
[Recipe: Close to Acid Jar Obtained!]
[Skill – Advanced Crafting Obtained!]
 
[Doomed Fae Gamer Class Obtained!]
[Doomed Fae Gamer Level 16!]
[Skill – Favorite Weapon Obtained!]
[Item – Lord Cortese’s Dueling Sword (Bleed, Strength, Keen) → The Sword of Not-Racism (Heavy Impact, Force, Greater Bane: None)!]
[Skill – Fast Travel (Camp) Obtained!]
[Skill – Explorer’s Map Obtained!]
[Skill – Power Attack Obtained!]
[Skill – Mighty Defend Obtained!]
[Skill – Mana Pool (Pure) Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Spellcasting Obtained!]
[Spell – Fire Arrow Learned!]
[Spell – Air Shield Learned!]
[Spell – Grease Puddle Learned!]
[Spell – Summon Mosquito Learned!]
[Species Skill – Satyr Kick Obtained!]
[Species Skill – Resistance: Intoxication Obtained!]
[Skill – Deathwish: To the Death, Then Obtained!]
[Skill – Always Find A Rock (Sling) Obtained!]
[Skill – Ignore Authority Obtained!]
 
[Title – Escaped the Fervored Strataveins Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Team Attack Granted!]
 
——
 
(In the Synectic Maze, the Fervored Strataveins, the world is quiet. Quieter. So many colors are gone.)
(The grand working has been jeopardized greatly. But not ruined. Not…entirely. Rage consumes you as you awaken—early. The ruined bodies of the gnats who tried to kill you are less than a mouthful as you uncoil.)
(You are one. But legion.)
 
The Unfinished Nightmare emerges. It quests around for vengeance. For death.
 
(A sound breaks the silence. It sounds like…laughter? But who would dare laugh at you? You advance, whispering the words of magic you were taught in your dark dreams. Your many mouths open, each one prepared to unleash a plague of children, of acidic bile, spiked barbs.)
(You halt. A stranger is waiting for you. You know it is not really ‘a’ stranger. But he is…odd. He has no fear. Like you, he knows this place.)
 
The Chieftain of Despair walks forwards. His pointed ears are torn. But his crimson gaze finds yours. He does not care to interfere. But some things must die. Better get this over with. They have a quarry to find. Though his light will reveal him wherever they go.
PATHETIC. The Unfinished Nightmare fears no tiny band. It shrieks and attacks.
 
Combat Start:
The Chieftain of Despair blinds the Unfinished Nightmare! He attacks! He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare tears and bites! It deals 2 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair counterattacks. Descriptions are pointless to him. He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare unleashes its hidden biles and spells of destruction! It deals 6 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair laughs at his foe. He has seen far greater doom. He attacks. He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare creates a Swarm of Children! They attack together! They deal 4 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair grits his teeth. He attacks. He deals 347 damage to the Swarm of Children. He deals 0 damage to The Unfinished Nightmare.
 
(What…is this? They don’t fear you. But you can kill them. So what is this…this…)
(Unease?)
(Then you sense it. Something else is coming.)
 
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin appears. 
 
(You scream. You turn to flee.)
 
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare is afraid. It attempts to flee!
The Chieftain of Despair blocks The Unfinished Nightmare. There is no escape.
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare lashes out! It delivers 0 damage. It attempts to flee!
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair attacks! He delivers 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare escapes combat!
The Unfinished Nightmare vanishes.
 
——
 
When he finally stepped into the sun, the [Knight] wearing spring’s green remembered everything. He exhaled as he stood with those who had left.
Men and women, some of whom cried out or wept for the loss of it. But Ser Markus just studied his surroundings at first, his face a mask of grief and failure.
He counted and understood just how much had been lost. The [Spring Knight] knelt in the grass, wishing he had words to encompass his emotions. Something to make sense of what was senseless.
If there was a comfort, it was this: they were not alone. He remembered the men and women he had walked with. He had seen his friend’s heart, and Rabbiteater’s soul was as true as Ser Markus had believed.
“That means something. So must this.”
People were waiting for him. Another surprise. Ser Markus walked forwards, then knelt again. Of all receptions he could have hoped for upon waking from the dream…he looked up, and he did weep.
“Spring’s Warden. You stand here to greet us all?”
His beloved Spring’s Warden stood with a great host of people. Numbers beyond counting. They milled about, and it seemed to him that this place was new. It had such a feel, and yet it was peaceful.
The lands of the dead should be such a place, Ser Markus felt. He saw the Spring’s Warden smile as she offered him her hand.
“We’ve come beyond titles now, Markus. I wait for you and everyone else. But also to know. I am sorry to see you so soon. What brought you here?”
Ser Markus turned, and the Calanferians, colonists, sailors, soldiers, and knights walked forwards. He looked about, but he did not see Rabbiteater’s face.
“A terribly tragic dream, Spring’s Warden. I beg to report…I beg to report that I did not distinguish the Season of Spring well in my final moments. I don’t know if I even swung a sword.”
His voice trembled, and he waited for castigation, but the eyes of the dead held no judgement. The Spring’s Warden embraced him gently.
“Speak, [Knight]. Let it be the last thing you regret.”
He searched for words as the memory of tears sprang to his eyes. Then Ser Markus’ back straightened. He spoke to the listeners solemnly, weeping his many regrets. But his voice…was soft as it rose.
“I would like to believe I—I had some value, ignorant though I was. I should rather be pleased to think that I took a blow that was meant for someone else. That befits my sense of self-importance. But in truth, it may be that I was but a—a flip of the coin. One of the many who perished in a place as unfair as can be.”
She nodded, and he went on, closing his eyes tight.
“Regardless of what the truth is, I know this: I went as far as I could. I wish I could have gone with him to the end. Rabbiteater, my friend, is alive. Until we meet again, I shall claim his victories as my own, his steps on the good earth my triumph. Even if it was one more moment—!”
His eyes overflowed, and his voice broke. Then the [Knight]’s head rose. He turned and raised a hand. Waving it, though he could not see the living. Just the memory of it. Ser Markus bowed.
“Ser Solstice, Rabbiteater of the Redfangs. My friend. Spring ends.”
Then he turned and began asking questions before he set out on this last, long adventure. But he would tarry awhile, Markus decided. To know how his friend’s story ended.
He hoped he waited a long time.
 
——
 
They said, later, that great things had happened while Seraphel’s company was lost in the Mindscape Ruins. Terrible moments. World-changing.
A Goblin King had arisen, they said, and set the world into panic. The moon had been cracked. Something important had occurred.
It was true, all of it. What remained of the Goblin King had been thrown back into Hellste, and his scream of fury and defeat had crossed the world. Every Goblin who stood on the steps of his terrible throne had heard it.
Even now, it echoed. A promise from the start of this world. An oath of blood.
A Goblin King of Champions who had never existed in this world until he broke into it, but might one day come again. His voice and that rage reflected onto the Goblin who might someday become that terrible figure.
—But Rabbiteater couldn’t hear the echoing howl. He knelt, ignorant of it all.
He was too busy weeping and holding his friend.

Interlude - Barelle the [Bard] (2025-11-09)

By the time they were across the border, all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was talking of them.
The Horns of Hammerad.
This was not solely due to their reputation, but because of the scrying orbs, the history of each adventurer in this section of Chandrar, and the actions of Queen Yisame. It was not lost on the Court of Silks, who attended to her every action and word, that the normally-impassive [Queen] sat up and ordered the Great Sage Etrikah, one of her personal confidants, to make ready for their arrival. In the royal wing.
No guest, even foreign monarchy, would be accorded that respect by virtue of their title alone. Even the King of Destruction, when he had conquered Nerrhavia’s Fallen the first time, had merely stayed in the Silken Wing—a clear snub he had entirely ignored in favor of camping in the palace grounds with the Hemp and Cotton.
That was not just it. It was so many things, from Yvlon Byres’ name being used as an invective in the Coliseum of Monarchs to the ongoing Oresect Plague still ravaging cities. It was the King of Destruction rumored to have hosted the Horns of Hammerad in his tent, sightings of Amerys and Mars meeting with the Horns.
King Perric of Medain’s statue and whisperings of marriage. The King of Duels in Jecrass—and in the south? Illivere had witnessed Ksmvr of Chandrar conquering their Golem Tests and his alliance with Domehead and Empress Nsiia.
Savere had tales of Ceria’s humiliation of the Siren of Savere—even joking about that might earn you a knife in the guts from her people.
As for Roshal…how many caravans had Pisces the Scourge destroyed across the south? The rumor was that he had never left Chandrar except to enter the Crossroads of Izril. There were too many sightings of him that fueled such rumors, destroying a caravan here, freeing slaves meant for the market there.
Yes, it was not hard to see why the largest nation of Chandrar was buzzing with a Gold-ranking team’s name more than any Named-rank adventurer. Had Alked Fellbow ever earned such acclaim, even when he had faced three young Jaws of Zeikhal and driven each one back into the desert over three days—the very feat that had earned him his Named-rank title?
No. There had been celebrations nearly as strong just once—when all and sundry had witnessed an act of heroism and courage when they had least expected it.
Again, on distant Izril, a [Prince] had leapt into certain death to end a mortal threat raining terror on adventurers. Prince Zenol at the Village of the Dead had sprang into the imagination; no mere [Prince], rich and haughty and one of hundreds who could claim royal heritage, but an adventurer—saved by Ksmvr.
The Horns again, you see. But if you looked at that one moment in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you would have seen true celebration. A Stitch-man who was, for a moment, treated like the hero he deserved to be.
That was a story that could best the Horns’ arrival, for all their fame. But there was no such story now that could unseat them from the public’s consciousness. Not even Prince Zenol himself.
Not right now.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had a way of diminishing its own stories that was practically unique to the nation. It hungered, every part did, for entertainment. Things to love, to rage at, to obsess over, and it could certainly produce any amount of infighting, gossip-worthy material, and scandal.
But it did not do…heroes…well. It had Named-ranks; more than any nation around it by sheer virtue of its size. It had high-level individuals—again, how could Chandrar’s largest nation not? Hundreds of millions of Stitch-folk called Nerrhavia’s Fallen home, and each region boasted different strengths.
After all, it had been created by the Immortal Tyrant herself, and the Pit Mines of Klehtre might no longer supply her dark armies with Blood Iron, but it still churned out metal aplenty—albeit constantly monitored for the Oresect beetles, which would spread and hatch in the metal in disastrous numbers if even a single one got into a load of raw iron—
As for the Fountain City of Ammersain, it produced enough water, despite being in a seeming desert, to let a million souls drink without ever going thirsty. No more than that, though, which was why the population hovered at 1.5 million souls constantly. The city could not support more, and there was no water to be had anywhere else except for trade. Poverty was thirst in that particular city.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen did not want for unique and special things, you see. And that was the problem: it remembered where it had come from.
Tyrant’s Rest, their capital, was built on the bones of the Immortal Tyrant, one of the greatest monarchs the world had known. Their edifices and greatest works had not yet crumbled to dust nor been looted. If the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was not in its shining days of glory, it was still too large, too powerful, and too fond of recollecting the past.
It did not celebrate its own individuals of note. Alked Fellbow was a Named-rank as worthy as any Izrilian or Terandrian adventurer, but because he was Hemp and because he was of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, there were only one song about him written by a young Hemp-caste [Bard] about how she had seen him saving her city.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had never submitted entries of his deeds to Tales of Adventure and Woe. Individuals had tried, but the kingdom had never pushed for it, never heralded his achievements. Who could name any of his deeds, even his greatest moment? Why was he called ‘Fellbow’?
Instead, Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s citizens would happily recount to you the tales of the King of Destruction, Mars—who had once conquered the colosseums—or explain that Tottenval the Blooming Plague had once brought his people to Chandrar, hence the presence of Fox Beastkin, those vexsome thieves. Or point to ‘foreigner’ adventurers they had decided to admire.
Not their own. No matter how good Alked Fellbow was, he would never equal the meanest of the Immortal Tyrant’s dreaded vassals. Prince Zenol was unto a flea compared to the Immortal Tyrant’s level and abilities or the founding rulers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen such as Queen Merindue.
And that…was depressing. It was easy to see, then, why Nerrhavia’s Fallen seemed to export its own citizens of note and import foreigners, even other Stitch-folk. A kind of trade in which their children went to find the recognition they could never gain in their own borders, and outsiders came to be the talk of the kingdom until it grew bored or annoyed with them.
Alked Fellbow leaving Nerrhavia’s Fallen for Khelt was a blow to a nation, even one as big as Nerrhavia’s Fallen, for he had been one of the best, but it was not surprising. It had happened. It would happen again.
The Horns were coming to this kingdom, and they would dominate every conversation, dance upon the Court of Silk’s intrigues, and perhaps influence even the Court of Steel’s wars with eight nations—Illivere, Pomle, Tiqr, Choiwel, Droix, Tince, Savere, and Reim—every eye would be upon them. In the Horns’ position, they might well stand to influence Queen Yisame herself or pull the tiller on the great nation’s future. If they so wished.
If they survived.
 
——
 
One man didn’t so much as glance up when he heard the name ‘Horns of Hammerad’ in the Court of Silks. He sat, scribing in a faded journal with quill in hand, his newly tanned hand moving with economical flourishes as he started each new sentence.
He did not miss who reacted, of course. Prince Zenol himself spun in his small gathering. House Isphel’s small, beaten-down cortege of nobles and the [Prince] seemed overly weary, but some of that fell away from his expression.
The reaction of Queen Yisame? Even more notable. She immediately called for a scrying orb—the fourth time she’d demanded one since seeing the Horns engaging the Slavers of Roshal. She’d also been visibly dictating [Messages]—no guesses to whom.
Of course, not every face was overly welcoming. More than one of the military-minded members of the Court of Steel grimaced with genuine anger; the death of General Thelican and Nerrhavia Fallen’s disastrous war with Pomle that had seen them counterinvaded had begun with their siege of Pomle, and their failure in one of the pivotal battles was laid at the feet of the Horns of Hammerad—and Khelt’s Scourgeriders.
However, taking cues from the throne meant that there were no overt mentions of that. Just—gossip.
“I wonder if the Siren of Savere will send [Assassins] after the…half-Elf. The Ice Squirrel? I heard she did more than freeze the Siren at the battle for Pomle. The half-Elf apparently stole the Siren’s spellbook, murdered her apprentice in cold blood, and then took the Siren’s staff and sold it on the black market.”
That was just a lie, the last sentence utterly fabricated on the spot to make the other Silk nobles gasp and titter at the Siren’s expense. But it was laced with genuine misinformation too. A nobleman cut in, voice low, too excited by what he’d heard, wishing to share it and have it confirmed.
“I heard the Ice Squirrel seduced the Shifting Alchemist himself.”
“Who?”
“Alchemist Irurx of Shifthold!”
“No! The one who has a ship of bugs?”
“She’s said to eat them. There are stranger tastes…”
“What kind of insects? That’s not much of a boast, although to Izrilians, perhaps it is. I’ll eat candied scorpions from Scaied.”
“Roaches, I’ve heard, or anything that moves.”
Stitch-folk they might be, but the nobility in the Court of Silks were as fastidious about some things as Terandrians. Several turned pale at the thought, and one of them fanned their faces quickly as they turned green.
“Ah…that’s…”
“Excuse me, I am eating. So what if they are returning? Her Majesty is oddly taken with them. Yet the Silver Killer was far tamer than I was led to believe. I watched one of her matches, you know. The honor-duel against Prince Esceit of House Quarein? It was hardly a duel of the ages, and she faced a former [Gladiator] champion.”
A young [Lieutenant] broke into the older gathering, all brash excitement as he shook his head.
“Bah, I remember that one. Where is he? I haven’t seen him in Prince Esceit’s company? Tossed aside; he was but Hemp. The Silver Killer is the most interesting of the lot! There are no recordings of her slaughtering [Guards] like chaff when they first arrested her. She beat an Adult Creler to death with her own arm when she was but a Silver-rank, you know. Tore it off, and the silver ones grew thereafter. There is a Human more beautiful than the rest of the lot. She can change her body, even if just the arms.”
On that, the company agreed; Stitch-folk loved malleability of the form. One of the Silk women fanning themselves sighed.
“I wish Ksmvr of Chandrar were among their company! Instead, there’s some other adventurer they’ve picked up. The one with green hair?”
“Colth the Rookie, I believe.”
There was a snort from the man listening into the conversation. Colth the Rookie. He might well die of outrage…or, knowing him, he’d take it in stride. Few of Chandrar’s nations would remember Colthei’s name, anyways. Roshal would—but he had hardly been advertised until he had come into the Naga’s clutches.
The quill dug harder into the fine paper as the gossip went on.
“The Silver Killer is one to meet though we should all make sure she isn’t given to her ravening furies. The Ice Squirrel too. But should the Court of Silks truly have that infamous Human in our presence? The Scourge of Roshal—that was the first time he was caught slaughtering them, but he lives up to his reputation. Surely it behooves the Court of Silk not to antagonize the Slavers unduly. We are reliant on them for coin in these blasted wars.”
The voice was cautious, but light laughter followed the statement.
“Antagonize Roshal? They are reliant on us, or is Lailight Scintillation’s harbor still not closed and covered in dust? Moreover, I heard that they collared the [Necromancer] unduly. You will have no sympathy from me nor fear. To my knowledge, Pisces the Scourge kills no one but Roshal’s own, yes?”
That came from a rather brash noblewoman with a vivid indigo fan made of some costly magical gemstone lacquer; each time she snapped it open, a cooling field made everyone in a twenty-foot radius sigh in relief.
It was hot and dry, even in the Court of Silks. They could afford cooling spells, of course, but it was a mark of the nature of the game that they didn’t pay for them. Why pay for a luxury for all when the superior could use it against their lessers?
Regardless, the noblewoman’s statement was seconded by everyone around her, if not in such strident language, then the sentiment. No nation was above Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not Roshal, not Reim. That they were at war and the King of Destruction slowly advancing over their borders? Inconsequential. Not to be spoken of negatively. If an army was broken, they would draw another one up. Nerrhavia Fallen’s hordes could march without end and even the King of Destruction drown in the onslaught of bodies.
There were cracks in the kingdom. Pomle’s victory against one of their great [Generals] was not to be discounted, and the plagues of beetles were shaking a throne that often killed its rulers. But, for now, no one questioned the will of their [Queen] or the Court of Silks itself. At least, not here.
Not in the palace.
Outside of the palace, you’d not hear any rumble of discontent either, the sitting man knew. If you were to walk to the bazaar in sight of the palace, no Cotton-caste merchant or artisan would speak of more than soaring prices or grumble about their favorite [Gladiators] being sentenced to combat-unto-death in the Coliseum of Monarchs or the bugs—never about the war. They were wary of that.
If you got a Hemp-caste laborer to talk, they would nary say a bad word about their superiors. Of course, by the time you were heard asking so many leading questions, someone might well decide you were the problem and arrange for a shadow to slit your throat in the night. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had fine and plentiful [Assassins].
But—if you were a bit cleverer than that and you knew where to go, how to disguise yourself so you didn’t seem out of place, you might hear far more discontent than the surface presented.
The wars against eight different nations were bloodier and more costly than most. It was business as usual in the east; Stitch-folk nations warring with Nerrhavia’s Fallen over slights and raiding each other for gold and [Slaves] to sell.
But Reim in the north and the angry nations of the west? Those wars were vicious and more often than not resulted in a loss for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The cost in lives to common [Soldiers], especially Hemp who had no ransom and were used as expendable fodder in each battle, was immense.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had the numbers to recruit more armies without overtaxing any one region—for now—but death or slavery still ripped lovers apart or left families grieving. The late General Thelican had openly dismissed entire regiments of Hemp-caste as ‘necessary sacrifices’. Desertion or evasion of conscription was high in conscripted cities.
They were not happy. But, then, that begged the question: when had they been content to be the lowest caste? If there was discontent, say, from deserting [Soldiers] on a larger scale than the Court of Silks knew, then it was still simmering. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had ways of putting down perceived rebellions that they had kept from the Immortal Tyrant herself. They would make examples of entire towns if they felt like obedience to the order of the kingdom was at stake.
All of this presented a rather prescient image of the kingdom that even a [Strategist] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen might be surprised by. However, you could read it—it was in the journal the man was writing in. Not in so many words; it was in his personal style of notetaking and perhaps more elegant of phrase. Certainly, his handwriting was superb; each first letter of a sentence was a flourish of stylized cursive.
The same for the man himself, really. He sat amidst the peacocking nobility and lesser royalty about him, and he wore simple clothing for such a gathering. A plain white tunic, thin given the heat, and embroidered with Nerrhavia Fallen’s sigil on each arm, tucked into dark britches of silk. Costly, but plain. Simple black and white. His belt carried a visible sword, a bag of holding on one side, a potion bottle and money bag on the other, but the sheath of the sword was simple leather.
Even his features weren’t remarkable amidst the gathering of Silk Stitch-folk. He had tanned skin, whereas those around him had every tone of skin ranging from pearl to ebony, even skin tones like red or faintly blue, though that was highly experimental even for Stitch-folk. He had faintly purple hair, perhaps, but age had turned it grey in places. The long strands of it were tied back in a bun and the rest hung behind his head—oh, and he was Human. So he’d done well with his appearance given he could not shape his features to look like anything he wanted.
Perfect jawlines, shaped noses—be they flat, round, or pointed—or beauty in imperfection, a subtly placed mole here, gaunt cheeks if you thought that was beauty, a rosy heart-shaped head—he was ordinary where they were works of art.
And yet, two things made this man stand out. Made the gossipers sometimes glance at him, or those who fancied themselves rich, powerful, and important turn their heads and give him an annoyed look, as if wishing he would come to them or trying to think of reasons they should come to him and not seem like they were trying to get his attention.
One of these things wasn’t even visible; it was merely a case slung on his back that he rested against, brown and travel-worn as he was. Innocuous, nay, offensive given what it carried. If he brought that instrument out, every eye would fall upon him. But he refused to play, that [Bard]. No one, not even the [Queen], could force him to perform. Like the Horns, he was a foreign story and older, grander, than most.
The thing that marked this Human man in the court, that kept him from being a pauper unfit for their presence, was the half-cloak he wore across one shoulder. It was shabby compared to the pristine dresses hand-tailored for each court appearance, the fabric new and gleaming. It wasn’t even silk, but cotton.
Rich cotton, dyed crimson, true, but faded with age despite the enchantments. A little loop of golden thread secured it across his neck, and it was more important, more valuable than all the clothing in this room, including Queen Yisame’s dress.
You see, it was the little sigils upon the cloak which mattered. Each one was a patch. Just a rounded circle of cloth upon which was sewn a crest. An emblem. The heraldry of a nation.
Each nation he had visited. They were not large, these crests. Barely larger than a gold coin, but they had to be so small; his half-cloak was covered in them. Each time he came to a new nation, he bought or was often given a little crest.
There were nations upon that cloak that had died and fallen into ruin, their flags burned, their memory lost save for the emblem he wore. That cloak had seen more wars than any [General] present. It had been witness to more heroism than any adventurer in the Court of Silks could name. It was no Relic-class item in enchantment, yet it stole the eyes of all who knew it as if it were made by an [Archmage] of old.
It was his cloak, and the Human who closed the journal he had been writing in had a name that eclipsed any other. He was an adventurer. A legend. A purveyor of stories. An entertainer and warrior, guide and mentor all. That was no exaggeration. Not for him.
Barelle the Bard had visited the Court of Silks many times before, and the emblem upon his cloak was the one that Yisame’s grandfather had given to him. He had refused every offer to replace it or add another emblem to the cloak as the seats of power changed hands, and no ruler of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had dared press the point.
Again, not with him. He was a charming man when he wanted to be; his name could pack any theatre in the world if he were playing, and when he spoke, that resonant voice would fill even the Court of Silks, as if he were speaking to you from a stage and up close simultaneously. But he was also the [Bard] who had visited every continent. Seen every great Named-rank adventurer. Fought in so many wars. Witnessed horrors and triumphs alike.
When Orchestra emerged from Chalence with the treasure of a lifetime, he was there to call the news across Izril.
When the Lightning Thief’s final adventure came to a close, it was a young [Bard] who had played an elegy to the weary [Thief].
When the King of Destruction met the Hero of Zethe in battle and fell back, time and again, Barelle the Bard sang Zethe’s defiance for a hundred and thirty days until the [Hero] wearied and vanished. And not from the sidelines, either, but with sword in hand.
He took sides, you see. Not always the winning ones, but mostly. It was why the late General Thelican had thought himself marked for greatness when instead it was Barelle who had witnessed the Strongest of Pomle’s victory.
Stories often worked like that in Barelle’s experience. He never claimed to know who was to win or that a great deed was taking place. People had begun to assume he predicted such things when the truth was he simply looked, listened, and went where his class called him.
It was not as if he’d been present for many of the greatest events in recent history. Not for the Meeting of Tribes nor the Winter Solstice nor this latest incident with the Goblin King. If you asked Barelle, he would unhappily list the many, many events he had failed to be there on time for or just not realized were happening.
But that was his point of view, and he had also found that most people couldn’t understand what he truly meant when he was honest. So he kept his council, and they thought him wise and mysterious.
For instance, the Court of Silks had it in their head that he was here to witness their great triumph in the wars they were fighting. Why else would Barelle the Bard grace them with months of his presence now? In fact, one of the gossipers turned to him, seizing on another excuse to draw him into conversation.
“Sir Barelle. If we speak of famous adventurers, then surely you yourself will be here to witness the Horns of Hammerad’s entrance into the Court of Silks? Will you perform for such an occasion?”
Everyone listening stirred; they had heard Barelle perform a dozen times now, but he had no end of songs, and he was the highest-level [Bard] in the world. Their eyes stole to the case of his magical harp, whose melodies could produce magic.
Barelle sipped from a canteen at his side. This was no insult; poison was often used in the Court of Silks. He spoke, his voice carrying yet mild, devoid of the grand resonance they longed for.
“I do not believe so. My business takes me out of the Court of Silks momentarily.”
He had what he needed; the journal was stowed in his bag of holding. The speaker faltered; the young [Lieutenant] seemed shocked.
“But the Horns…surely if there are adventurers worthy of Barelle the [Bard], it would be them! Or is opening the Crossroads of Izril and challenging the Village of the Dead not enough?”
The [Lieutenant] was surely a fan of the Horns; a few glowers made him flush, but he held his ground as Barelle stood. The [Bard] reached out, and the noblewoman with the indigo fan halted, mid-drink from a goblet she’d taken from a servant’s tray. He touched the bottom of her cup, and she blinked—then offered the cup to him. He took it; handed it to a servant, and she opened her mouth, confused.
Only then did Barelle address the young Stitch-man. He brushed a lock of hair out of his eyes and smiled gently. His eyes were brown and mellow, the color of polished wood, which surprised many who fancied that such an important man should have eyes like the Hero of Zethe, something that marked his level and fame. Barelle shook his head.
“The Crossroads of Izril are no light thing, Lieutenant Felyer. Nor do I make little of their deeds. But the Horns of Hammerad are not the adventurers that I think will make a song worth playing. At least, not here.”
“Not here?”
The dismayed [Lieutenant] was amazed Barelle knew his name. The [Bard] half-smiled as he bowed towards Yisame on her throne, who seemed visibly displeased or dismayed by his answer.
“I mean no disrespect, of course. Yet who or what, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, could offer such adversity or challenge to such a team with the favor of the crown? Doubtless, they shall have exploits and be worthy of stories to enthrall the kingdom for a month, perhaps a year. But not a lifetime, I think.”
Ah. A sigh ran through the Court of Silks. They understood, then, that his criteria was like theirs. Queen Yisame’s fingers flashed on her throne, and her Speaker voiced her opinion for her.
“There are few stories worthy of such acclaim indeed, Barelle the Bard. Even the King of Destruction himself merits but two such songs. We must content ourselves with passing diversions, however pleasant. You have our leave to pursue the tales worthy of your craft.”
He bowed deeper, and though there were some murmurs of regret, the Court of Silks liked that reminder that the King of Destruction himself was but one more story in Barelle’s saga of the world.
Barelle turned on his heel to go. Of course, he had said what was most expeditious to avoid strife. What he had not said was that there were reasons he was in Nerrhavia’s Fallen after all these months—just not the Horns. He had no doubt they would find trouble and excitement here.
Yet as he’d said, what adversary or challenge would they find in the Court of Silks worthy of singing? Plenty to trouble them. Little Barelle would think worthy of a great song. If the Court of Silks understood what he’d actually meant, they might quickly turn on him. But few had understood the meaning of what he said, and they were content not to make enemies. Not of him.
As the [Bard] strode out of the Court of Silks, the woman with the indigo fan realized he hadn’t done anything with her cup. She searched around for it, but the [Servant] had borne it away already.
“What did he want with your drink, Emira Otelline?”
“I don’t know.”
That was what the Emira said, or tried to say. But she never got the entire sentence out. She was reaching for another cup when her face turned red, and she began to cough. At first, the noblewoman addressing her swayed back, covering her face with a fan. Then she realized the red rash swelling across the Emira’s face was no mere coughing fit.
“Poison. Poison!”
She cried out, and everyone leapt backwards. The Emira collapsed as her servants and bodyguards rushed forwards. Everyone in earshot put down their cups and plates and backed away from the refreshments.
Was that Roshal’s vengeance? If so, how fast! Or some supporter of theirs? Or was it coincidence, an enemy using her statements as bait?
The [Queen] upon her throne barely paid any attention to the flailing Emira; the Emira was not high-ranking, and she would live. If she had downed the entire cup, she would have been dead in seconds. Queen Yisame’s eyes were on Barelle’s back as he walked out of the court.
Even in small ways, he changed fate as it pleased him. A meddler; the sort of man who would draw a blade for the Wind Runner of Reizmelt and challenge the fae to a duel.
Witness and storyteller. A historian the likes of which Satar Silverfang could only aspire to, and whose tales, both sung and written, Yisame herself had read over and over. He rarely penned works, but when he did, the world read them. He rarely made new songs, but his Ballad of the Lightning Thief had been part of what made the series about him so famous.
Why…would a man who had gone into retirement leave his retirement only to spend months here? For the King of Destruction’s war, to record his victory over a great foe, or failure? Some other reason?
It was a worry for any sensible ruler, and Yisame had not lived as long as she had by ignoring such things. But before she could focus on him, another [Message] came in stating the Horns of Hammerad would be at the palace in less than two hours, and Yisame stood from her throne in excitement, forgetting her worries.
Barelle the Bard vanished as the Court of Silks focused on their heroes of the hour.
 
——
 
It was a shame, he felt. Nerrhavia’s Fallen remembered legends, but only as a way to diminish new ones. It grew bored too quickly and let the true stories, the old ones, fade, as if they didn’t matter.
Why was he here? Several reasons, the King of Destruction being the least of them. Prince Zenol’s tale ranked higher than that of Flos Reimarch, if only because Barelle had known his father.
In fact, it was the [Prince] himself who caught up with Barelle as the [Bard] left the Court of Silks, albeit in disguise.
He did not do it well; he wore a hood and concealing facemask, but the bevy of his servants and bodyguard around him gave him away as someone of rank to anyone except his peers. Already, the [Cutpurses] had slunk away from such an obvious danger and the [Spies] taken note. Not that Barelle was avoiding them.
“Lord Barelle. You don’t wish to stay for the Horns? They are not as simple as gossip would have you believe.”
“I could ask the same of you, Prince. Leave your bodyguards, please. I wish not to have every eye follow us.”
Barelle slowed his stride as they proceeded down the thousand stairs leading towards the palace’s heart. Once, it was said, the Palace of Tyrant’s Rest had been many times higher, but it had been shattered during the de-throning of Nerrhavia and the rubble reconstituted into this. It was still a pillar of marble to cast all buildings around it into shadow, lofty spires with rounded domes stretching skywards like the hand of a giant.
Zenol motioned a hand at his servants as a wave of [Slaves] and [Servants] came up the stairs, bearing provisions and supplies by hand. Barelle stepped sideways to avoid them; the [Prince] continued onwards as they split around him, then hurried back to Barelle.
“My people, begone. Attend to House Isphel and inform me when the Horns of Hammerad reach the palace. Doubtless, I have time; the greeting will take at least an hour before common conversation can be made, if Her Majesty does not spirit them away.”
“But Your Highness, if you are alone, House Quarein may—”
Zenol colored slightly as one of the cloaked figures protested. He snapped back.
“If I am in danger in Barelle the Bard’s company, I am not safe in any part of the world! Go!”
They fled, bowing, and Barelle raised his brows.
“You were not so royal on Izril’s shores or at sea.”
Zenol flushed deeper. He touched the scimitar at his side and tried to walk like anything but what he was: a [Prince] who had become a Gold-rank adventurer. Still, the two of them were less notable than a group.
“When in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, I am a single lion amongst a vast and bloated pack. Alone, in other lands, I felt freer. More gracious with my entourage. Here they fall into their ways and I mine.”
“Ah, so scarcity of your servants makes them more valuable?”
The [Prince] bit back a quick reply, and Barelle saw him struggle with the sentence before ducking his head.
“—If I embarrass myself in your esteem, then I shall amend my ways, Lord Barelle.”
“Is it because I am Barelle the Bard? If so, that is a poor reason. A [Prince] is arrogant, superior, and above others. It is your class. You did not exactly challenge that here or abroad.”
“Should I have?”
Zenol’s eyes flickered, and the [Bard] shrugged. He whirled his famous half-cloak, swirling it around Zenol as eyes followed the two’s progress down the steps and towards the street. Zenol shivered with longing as the fabric touched his shoulders. Barelle glanced at him.
“Whatever you wish to do, Prince Zenol. I have known [Princes] and [Princesses] who fought every aspect of their class and those that leaned into it. Neither one guarantees a story worth telling. I merely suggest you do not act in order to impress me.”
Zenol was half-nodding as he took a step downwards—then stumbling, his feet suddenly on flat ground. He smacked into a weary Stitch-folk man bearing a stick with two baskets filled with grapes, and the man tripped.
“Watch it, you cottonheaded fool!”
The man snarled, swinging the baskets slightly so they buffeted Zenol, and the [Prince] nearly drew his sword in a snarl. Then he realized he was in the middle of a street and froze.
“Drunk idiot.”
Spit followed the buffet, and the man walked off. He was Cotton, and another man with a similar burden followed him.
“Careful with that temper. He might have been Silk—”
“Not wearing that. Just another idiot with more coin than sense.”
At least the disguise worked. Zenol adjusted the plain clothing he wore and saw Barelle striding around the [Vintners] or perhaps apprentice winemakers. He hurried on, casting around. Then he saw the palace in the distance, miles away.
Zenol refused to let his jaw drop; he strode after Barelle, trying to sound levelheaded. He was a Gold-rank adventurer, even if he had not the time nor the circumstances to adventure in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But Barelle had ever been his reminder that there was a greater level than even Gold-rankers, nay, even than Named-ranks could dream of.
Though it had been thirty years almost since last they’d met, and Barelle’s current level was far higher than Zenol remembered…even then he’d had powers like these.
“That—was to avoid spies? A clever trick, Lord Barelle.”
“More to speed us on our way.”
“May I ask what Skill it was…?”
Zenol was not quite sure how to address this man, who claimed friendship with him; Barelle had known Zenol’s late father the first time he’d come to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He did not throw his weight behind Zenol and House Isphel in the Court of Silks, but even his company was an honor that Zenol personally appreciated, and he was loath to ask for more, despite his House’s insistence they needed every hand.
It seemed Barelle was also troubled by the odd relationship they shared, because he frowned as he swept his crimson cloak into his bag of holding and replaced it with a simple traveller’s cloak that made him truly innocuous. Despite his silk shirt and leggings, they somehow appeared to be plain cotton unless you looked closely.
“You needn’t worry about offending me as you would another adventurer or Stitch-man, Zenol. I am not a staunch ally of yours nor someone beyond approach. I am just a [Bard]. If I do not care to answer a question, I will not. The boy who begged me to play upon my harp was easier to speak to than the [Prince].”
“Of course, Barelle. Then your Skill?”
“[Advancing the Narrative: A Swifter Journey].”
A twinkle in his eyes; Zenol’s own widened in disbelief. A Skill like that used to cut a walk in…?
They were almost at their destination, and if anyone could follow them, they were well and true masters. Barelle skirted around a group of children. They had brooms and baskets on their back; street urchins. Zenol watched his pockets around them, noting their coarse skin and ‘rough’ features. It was hard to shape Hemp, so you got blunter features, even if they were sturdy and resistant to damage.
This group of three was combing the streets, sweeping up debris—not to deposit it anywhere, but to churn up the dirt and trash for their true prize. Zenol grimaced as he saw a glint of metal; one of the children pounced on it instantly and swept their little rakes together like claws.
They trapped the buzzing, steel Oresect beetle and tossed it in one of the other children’s baskets. Another child found one of brass and caught it with swift motions.
“For all the Oresects are said to be ‘contained’ in Tyrant’s Rest, there are too many if children earn coins for each. Then again, perhaps it shows there are not so many; it is still a silver coin per bug. It would beggar even our coffers if there were a full plague of them.”
Barelle nodded as the children skirted wide of the adults.
“I have seen entire swarms by the hundreds of thousands in the mines. Locust swarms are deadlier, but only because Great Sage Etrikah has managed to keep a true swarm of Oresects from reaching any city.”
“Something else I fear Yvlon Byres may be forced to answer for. There is no proof, of course, but her arrival and the plague are too similar. Whatever business they have in Chandrar, I hope to help them finish soon.”
The [Prince] said nothing of his own woes or those of House Isphel. Nor did he imply they might help him, that they might owe him a debt for his aid to them in Nerrhavia’s Fallen or from the Village of the Dead.
He was best when he spoke or acted on other’s behalf. In that, he was his father’s son. Believe it or not, but Prince Zenol was far humbler than his father, Prince Ziwar, had been. Barelle was sympathetic to Zenol’s plight, but he was loath to become entangled in politics here.
House Isphel’s woes were nothing as dramatic as a blood-curse or the hand of destiny marking them. They were merely a fading royal bloodline whose last direct scion was Prince Zenol and a handful of fading heirs. His father had made too many enemies, and his death had marked their decline. Now, Prince Zenol was under pressure from his House’s enemies, such as House Quarein, and he had made more by aiding the Horns of Hammerad.
The [Prince] did not complain of that. Not to Barelle, not to anyone, the [Bard] suspected. But he had not seen Zenol smile often since they had landed upon Chandrar.
That was why he allowed the [Prince] to follow along. Barelle reached his destination: a bar that was completely empty of people and, in fact, locked. Barelle tried the handle as Zenol glanced at the ‘closed’ sign.
“If you were looking for a place to sit or listen, I could—”
Barelle knelt down with a pair of lockpicks, and the [Prince] shut up. He heard a click almost before Barelle had finished kneeling, and the [Bard] rubbed at his back ruefully.
“Every time I bend over too long, let alone do something more strenuous, I am reminded why I retired.”
“I had heard you were quite happy in Gaiil-Drome. What possessed you to leave…?”
Barelle smiled ruefully as he pushed the door open.
“I was. Negotiating my way into the half-Elven villages to perform for them was entertaining. In time, I hoped I could work my way through half-Elves’ curious hierarchies to visit the oldest villages. I wished to meet stories older than I.”
“Like the Bladesmaster who cuts but once?”
Zenol grew excited, and Barelle raised his brows as they entered the bar, which was not dark, but lit. It seemed ready for customers, but even the [Bartender] was absent. There was only one guest, and when he saw her, Zenol halted with recognition.
He alone understood something of what kept Barelle here. The woman who moodily sat at the bar, an untouched drink before her, was so tall that she was still of a level with Barelle and Zenol when seated.
Cognita Truestone, the finest creation of Archmage Zelkyr, half-glared at the intruders, but her expression of wrath ameliorated when she saw Barelle. It returned full-force for Zenol, and he halted and bowed deep, but even she listened as Barelle spoke.
“You are referring to the story of the [Bladesmaster] who cut each object with a single slash and bested a Named-rank team? No, I meant older stories than that. I know the story of that half-Elf.”
“Then he is real? Lady Truestone, greetings—”
Zenol haltingly approached Barelle as the [Bard] smoothly sat at the bar. Cognita’s glare made Zenol switch from the seat he intended to sit in next to Barelle. He stood instead, and Barelle nodded to Cognita. He found a glass under the bar and poured his flask into it; it transpired that it was a peach fruit juice. He sipped and spoke.
“It was a Gold-rank team who became Named-rank. As for his mastery with a sword, it was indeed great, but again, it is not the kind of thing I wished to put to song. When I was younger, I think I would have. I become so picky with age. It did not appeal to me to make a story of that half-Elf against his wishes, despite the fact that he could slice a boulder in half with neither Skill nor enchanted blade. It would have sold well, but there was no spark of inspiration in me for it.”
Cognita’s voice was low as she interjected into the conversation. She gave Barelle no greetings; she was, by now, used to his presence.
“Any [Bladesmaster] may cut a boulder with a blade. A child with a Dragonblood crystal sword could do the same. Yet one without Skills is more miraculous than both because…?”
“Because it does not square with our understanding of the world, Cognita. And we are infinitely more forgetful and limited. To a Golem, is it not extraordinary nonetheless?”
Barelle nodded at her, and the Truestone Golem moodily lifted her drink to her lips. She took a sip of the liquid, and Zenol had to wonder if she could even process it. Did she have a stomach? A throat?
He could see the marble of her throat working like real flesh just as her dress, a white gown, moved with her every action. She seemed as mobile as any woman—albeit she was eight feet tall, made of marble-grey stone, and had emeralds, literally emeralds, in her glittering eyes. A sculpture without equal created by the greatest [Golemmancer] of the era.
Zelkyr, the Archmage of Golems. She had been Wistram’s custodian for over a century until she had just…left. Left, ceded it to Archmage Eldavin, and come to Nerrhavia’s Fallen for reasons Zenol didn’t understand. Perhaps Barelle did.
Whatever those reasons were, they had not made Cognita happy. A huge wicker hat sat next to her drink on the bar. Zenol had seen her wearing it often, and she also had…a pot. A clay pot from Khelt. She sometimes stared at it.
Between the pot, the hat, and Barelle the Bard, they seemed to be the only things in this world Cognita acknowledged. And she was a legend as much as Barelle, but, er…not one the Court of Silks would wish to be amongst them as long. Certainly, they’d made overtures to her when they’d first heard of her, but she wasn’t quite as charming as Barelle.
Case in point, the Golem woman placed her cup down at a forty-five degree angle and held it there for a second. Then she left it balanced, somehow. Zenol stared at the liquid, waiting for the cup to move, but it did not. Cognita’s eyes flicked to him, then Barelle.
“This astonishes you, but it is simply perception and movement elevated to its natural conclusion. I can slice a boulder in two without using undue force, for I have seen it done by another ‘master’ who needed no Skills. The levels you take for granted are the extraordinary, the impossible, the unobtainable.”
Barelle did not take offense to her blunt tone. He smiled as he took a sip from his cup; the moment it left the counter, the perfectly-balanced cup Cognita had placed began to tip. She put a finger under it and let it rest normally before a drop could spill out.
Zenol had no words for what Cognita was. He had dealt with Djinni, if sparingly, and even they were more people than she was. Truly, of all the beings in the world, she was unique.
And…alone. Barelle murmured as Cognita waited for his reply.
“So then. Golems envy us what they lack, and we envy Golems what we cannot achieve without great effort. Is that so surprising, Cognita?”
She paused for half a second, but only, Zenol suspected, because that fit a natural style of conversation.
“I have spoken philosophy with [Sages] upon the nature of Golems. This conversation will reveal nothing new to me. Which half-Elves did you wish to meet, Barelle?”
Without missing a beat, Barelle sighed. He gestured, and Zenol took a seat four spaces away from the two. Surreptitiously, the [Prince] checked the bar for a drink and wondered how one mixed a drink. He sloshed a bunch of rum into a cup and added some pale liquid that turned out to be Moonlight’s Kiss after a moment. He took a sip and understood why [Bartender] was a class.
Both Barelle and Cognita stared at Zenol and exchanged a glance before returning to their conversation.
“Ah. Well…Queen Yahne sor Elwyhas of Erribathe, Glade Knight Leila, and Zleyvhas would be my first three. If not them? Perhaps Harpist Sonalei for her songs or Forest King Ellowhil.”
Zenol knew…absolutely none of those names, and he did study foreign nobility. He was familiar with Erribathe, of course, and ‘Forest King’ probably meant Gaiil-Drome’s monarchy. Cognita didn’t miss a beat though.
“Queen Yahne sweeps the capital of Erribathe. She does not require invitation into a Timeless Village. A predictable choice, as is Harpist Sonalei and Forest King Ellowhil. Their age does not make any one of them more intriguing except from a historical sense.”
Barelle nodded evenly. Cognita hesitated, then, just for a second. Her eyes glowed momentarily.
“…I do not know of a half-Elf named ‘Zleyvhas’. A Glade Knight Leila is listed as a member of note in Erribathe’s kingdom in case of emergency, and there is an extant marker on her identity by the Blighted Kingdom. That documentation is only accessible to the Burnished Court, however.”
“How did you happen to see it then?”
Her chiseled brows crossed, and Barelle lifted his cup.
“Please, indulge me Cognita.”
“I read the page with her name on it when I was left unattended for eighteen seconds in a high-ranking [Clerk]’s office in the Blighted Kingdom a hundred and twenty-six years ago. My master bade me read their plans to ensure they were sending their finest warriors to cover our advance.”
“And you remember that perfectly with but the name to prompt you?”
Zenol had to burst out then in awe. He knew Golems were different, but this…! Cognita’s withering gaze made him sip his wretched drink in silence. Barelle smiled.
“Thank you for indulging me, Cognita. That is my mortal uncertainty, I fear.”
“You are welcome, Barelle. Do me the kindness of extrapolating any further conclusions of similar nature. Who are those two half-Elves?”
The [Bard]’s eyes lit up faintly, much like Cognita’s own, and the polished brown swirled with a hint of something more. Cognita glanced at Barelle as she copied him, taking a sip simultaneously with him.
“Older than even Forest King Ellowhil.”
“A boast at least a hundred half-Elves can make in Timeless Villages. My master once estimated the population of half-Elves with ages over a thousand years to be—”
“Older and highly placed, Cognita. At least, I believe Glade Knight Leila to be old enough to be at least four thousand years old. And no shrinking violet or ornamental title either; she was a heroine who fought in Rhir against Demons as well as across other continents.”
“How have I not heard her name?”
“They were purged.”
“Ah, the Ettertree Purge. Intriguing. And the other?”
She didn’t miss a beat. Whatever conclusions Cognita came to were so effortlessly fast that Zenol couldn’t keep up—he was writing down words and keyphrases desperately on the inside of a sleeve; he hadn’t a journal, and Barelle had tossed him a magical quill purely out of sympathy.
The [Bard] was keeping pace with Cognita, which of course meant their conversation was too fast, unnaturally swift without pauses. That was his talent; he could match a [Pirate]’s swagger or a Dullahan’s reserved politeness. Or, at least in part, a Golem’s unnatural speed of thought. Cognita’s speed of thought. She was one of only a few Golems in the world who could speak.
“I do not know. Only that ‘Zleyvhas’ is a name that comes up time and again. A hermit in the northeastern part of Terandria. I heard a half-Elf let slip the name unguarded, whereupon he tried to pretend it was inconsequential.”
“Doubtless a Level 60 [Hermit]. Much like the Herald of the Forests. Another weapon to be called upon in this changing era. Whose name was ill-chosen.”
Cognita’s lip curled. Barelle dipped his head.
“‘The Journey of the Living’ is indeed difficult to work into song. One imagines that the Gnolls had to think on their feet.”
“This world has not ceased to wane.”
That was her cold comment, and again, Zenol had to interrupt.
“What of the King of Destruction, Lady Truestone? Or Archmage Eldavin? Or the rumors of ghosts, the surfacing of Nombernaught? The rising of a New Land and the Crossroads of Izril?”
She didn’t even peer at him. Cognita Truestone lifted her cup, drained the liquid, and pushed it back on the counter. It seemed she had rented this bar to ‘drink’ alone, or the owner was just that aware of her inclinations, because only then did a [Barman], Hemp, appear to fill the cup with the same liquid.
Firebreath Whiskey. Very cheap, very unpleasant. Cognita touched the glass, and it frosted over as the tip of her finger glowed, for a moment, with Everfrozen Ice. Barelle and Zenol watched as the liquid frosted into a cube in the center. How she’d done that without freezing the entire glass, Zenol couldn’t say.
She lifted the drink to her lips. Sipped with no change of expression. Then replied to Zenol flatly.
“A half-Elf predating Zelkyr is not uncommon. Any old [Mage] in a Timeless Village could ‘restore Wistram’s magic’ as he is doing. He is more skilled than most. The world was considered waning when my master was alive. The Crossroads of Izril will provide nothing but ruins. The Walled Cities there have died. The New Lands of Izril are seafloor ruins brought skyward and animated with magic. No revolution has swept this world in industry or magic. The King of Destruction has failed to take more than a dozen nations.”
Her eyes were cold.
“When an empire rules more than a decade across continents and transforms the state of normalcy beyond collapse or restoration, when magic is elevated beyond a mere handful of individuals acquiring Tier 6 spells, when the state of being shifts until the world cannot revert with the death of a [King] or the fall of a handful of nations—then this era will shift. Anything lesser is the frailty of mortal lives demanding meaning in their short span.”
They said that Golems and Stitch-folk were not so different. That once, Stitch-folk had been a kind of Golem until they fought to liberate themselves. But Zenol, as a descendant of his distant ancestors who had won that freedom, felt that the gap had widened since then, because her ruthless comments took his breath away. They did outrage him, but he wondered if voicing his complaints would be dangerous.
She…had no limitations on what she could do. In Wistram, he had heard she obeyed the rules she set out, and she was a custodian, but outside of it? She had no rules against killing. Nor dealing with those who annoyed her. A drunk Emir had forgotten that in one of her visits to the Court of Silk.
She had broken every bone in his hand by crushing them while it was attached as his bodyguards sat on the ground and stared at the limbs she’d ripped off their bodies. It had been considered a mark of Queen Yisame’s wisdom that she hadn’t humbled herself by trying to intervene.
It was Barelle who countered Cognita’s comments, though what he said next stirred Zenol’s heart to racing.
“All of what you say may be true, though it pains us to hear it, Cognita. I myself yearn for the true changing of an era as much as I fear it. I wish I had been at the Meeting of Tribes, but my instincts…”
He shrugged and sighed.
“They are not what they were. I was distracted chasing rumors of the Circle of Thorns, sure that—well, I lost both quarries like a foolish [Novice Hunter]. I would have done just as well to go back to Noelictus and play for the Synphasia, by the sounds of it. At least then I would have witnessed one interesting story. Yes, and none of it is worthy of a new era or your own master’s legend by your estimation.”
“By impartial estimation.”
Cognita corrected Barelle with the only true moment of heat Zenol had heard in her voice. He nodded in agreement, which seemed to annoy her, but then Barelle murmured.
“What about the children, then, Cognita? I don’t believe…we have ever had visitors of their like. Perhaps. Perhaps they heralded some old imperium, but I think I can claim they are entirely new. Or did you find them similar?”
Cognita Truestone hesitated. Zenol swung his head from Barelle to Cognita. How did they know…? It was sealed to only the royalty of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, this intelligence they had gleaned, and even the squabbling [Princes] and [Princesses] knew better than to speak widely of it. Everyone was on the hunt for them, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen had plenty of space. Already, some were in the company of the Mad Ones, though that was a choice in and of itself—
The Golem woman paused for a microsecond, then shook her head.
“They are unique in my estimation as well. My claim stands. They have not revolutionized this world, merely brought ideas forwards. If a gateway were to open to their home…then the era may change.”
“You doubt that isn’t a matter of time?”
“I do. My calculation is that a gateway may form or has been formed. The evidence shall become obvious in time. Regardless, the ensuing conflict may provide a true change in eras. More likely, it will result in destruction of countless nations. If a victor emerges on either side, then the era may change. Whether it is The Long Night and another era of magical darkness or another Rihal Imperium shall depend on which weapons are used. From the descriptions of the children’s home, I am inclined to believe it will be a Long Night indeed.”
She uttered that prophecy of the future without fear or anticipation, just a kind of weary expectation of what was to come. She did not seem to dread the idea of another Twilight of Magic, despite being a being made of it herself, or fantastical weapons from this ‘Earth’. Why would she? Perhaps she could die, and two of her sisters had apparently been created and perished with Archmage Zelkyr, at least one in Rhir itself, but she was still Cognita Truestone.
One of the greatest beings of this world save for Dragons, if any still lived. And her only peer?
Barelle the Bard, perhaps. At least he seemed to say or do things that the Golem could not predict. Indeed, now, he stretched out at the counter.
“Dire talk, Cognita. If that gateway does open, I hope I will be there to be a voice of sanity instead of someone to sing a dirge for the ending of things. I confess…I have not been happy with myself of late.”
Again, there was the slightest pause as Cognita turned to him.
“A mutual condition.”
“Are you out of Merchant…I forget his name. His employ?”
“Yes.”
“That would be the fourth then.”
Barelle did not forget names or faces, so this was tactful. Cognita took a long drink this time.
“Your memory is not failing to that extent, Barelle. I did not find what I was searching for. Again.”
“May I ask…?”
“Inform me what you find displeasing. I may answer, then.”
Barelle nodded, then lifted the case off his back. Even Cognita stopped and glanced at his harp, once, though her memory was impeccable.
It was an old instrument and simple enough; the travelling harp was made of aged wood, and whatever paint was on it had long since flaked away, but that was not what made it extraordinary. It was the strings.
Each string was a different color, each one infused with power and made in ways Zenol could not guess. Barelle regarded the harp, which could play music to soothe an army or change the course of a battle, and spoke.
“I confess, I was annoyed with myself for being lured out of retirement. I tried to rest. I told myself I had seen every great act and that I would weary and find myself with a blade in my chest before long. But then I felt that itch. The Circle of Thorns, the delivery at sea.”
“You have always been drawn to stories. That you have lived this long is, like other Named-rank adventurers, an anomaly.”
Cognita commented, and Barelle smiled.
“Yes, well. Throwing my last decades away by trying to live amongst half-Elves was another foolish way to go. But I missed each story. Even smaller ones. I was in the north, chasing rumors of the Circle of Thorns not being truly dead, when the Meeting of Tribes happened. Then when the Village of the Dead was raided, I was in the south, interviewing Gnoll tribes. In my exasperation, I journeyed to Wistram to see what had happened there when there was the Dawn Concordat’s war. ‘Just another war,’ I told myself until I saw Great General Dioname. And the Winter Solstice…I was busy meeting children of Earth when that occurred, so I have some piece of that.”
Frustration glinted in his eyes. Cognita’s head swivelled.
“What occurred then?”
“Undead. They attacked the children I was with. Not a great force, but there was no [Necromancer] present nor the conditions for them to rise. The true locus was around Liscor and an [Innkeeper]. I…met her.”
“The one who allegedly returned from the dead. I recall several inquiries from a Falene Skystrall to her faction for support. She was merely mortally wounded and—”
“The ghosts coincide with her return. Do you doubt that, Cognita?”
Now they were arguing, and Cognita blinked for a second.
“I acknowledge she may have witnessed, as a bystander, some of the events that occurred. If you are going to cite her connection to the King of Khelt, that does not prove anything other than Khelt’s primacy in those events. And their loss.”
Both of them turned to eye Zenol for a moment, and he got the impression he had heard something he shouldn’t have. Barelle murmured.
“She is important.”
“To your stories, I grant you.”
“It frustrates me at times, Cognita, that no one can be said to have done more, seen more, or be worth more than Archmage Zelkyr.”
She stood so fast that Barelle had to fling up a hand; she was already at the door.
“Cognita, I apologize. I do not mean to inflame tensions. I am merely expressing my feelings.”
“They are ill-taken. Watch your words, Barelle. A [Bard] should learn to charm even stone.”
She came back and sat, literally stony-faced, and the [Bard] tugged at his chin ruefully.
“It is a weakness of mine, I suppose. I once met stone I could not charm.”
“Ah. Those stones. My master avoided Terandria; he wished to have eight of my sisters and I before attempting radical confrontations.”
“Yes. Those ones. And that was wise of him. Let me…allow me to continue. I missed her. Regardless of what we believe she is, I could have been there when she took the [Prince of Men]’s life on that ship. I might understand more of what is going on.”
“You are here instead. The King of Destruction is a boring choice for a story, Barelle. Even Nerrhavia’s Fallen makes for poor song.”
What did she mean by that? But here, Cognita was slightly dense, because Barelle just gazed at her.
“I have followed what may not be the greatest story of our age, but the one I care about, Cognita.”
She glanced past him at Zenol, then blinked and realized who he was looking at. The Truestone Golem took a drink from her cup. She didn’t speak for a moment, so Barelle went on.
“I confess, I am also annoyed. Annoyed at not being able to split myself, at missing great events. The Dyed Lands, the Crossroads, all call to me.”
“You will not find a story here, Barelle. Merely another note in a song that will outlive your ability to sing it.”
Cognita whispered, and the [Bard] dipped his head.
“Allow me my indulgences, Cognita. If I must, I will leave. But I have long since made my peace with failing to capture each story as it is told in the moment. I will not make the mistake of losing another to impatience. Besides—travelling a continent away is no easy task, even with these new teleportation spells.”
She nodded after a moment, relaxing slightly.
“If they are based on old magic, they have a 0.0004% chance of failure. The risk rises exponentially with magical power or the level or strength of aura of the user.”
“Disheartening. And I hate flying on carpets. Ah, well. Perhaps I’ll buy a magical carriage. My point is that I am content to wait here. Though I do find the use of the television irritating. As I do the legend of the Horns of Hammerad.”
His eyes glinted as he leaned upon his harp, and Zenol sat up at the bar. Here, Cognita was surprised and again, curiously, defensive.
“Their team is respectable.”
This time, Barelle raised his brows and leaned forwards.
“I have never heard you defend a team of adventurers in my life, Cognita.”
“I am…merely acknowledging the two [Mages] who are part of the team. Ceria Springwalker and Pisces. I declared them graduates of Wistram.”
That gleam was back in Barelle’s eyes, of sudden interest.
“Ah. Then perhaps I’ve truly misjudged them. You see, I found their legend inflated by the scrying orbs and television. I myself have refused every offer to perform for so many eyes despite the temporary fame. They cannot capture my performance with [Scrying] spells alone. It cheapens the act. Part of that may simply be the convenience, I admit.”
“[Scrying] spells as translated to current magical mirrors do have a loss of sound and visual quality that is perceptible to the mortal eye.”
Cognita offered, and Barelle laughed.
“Yes, well, I am also a [Bard], and I have great sympathy for my struggling class. It is hard to beat the Singer of Terandria’s music. So, my discontent with the Horns…”
Here, Zenol had to break in to defend the team he considered friends, though he had barely met. Comrades, at least, he hoped they might say of him.
“Barelle, I can attest to their bravery. I journeyed with them. You complimented me upon my leap once. I did that and was saved by Ksmvr—and it was in the very same raid the Horns organized!”
The [Bard] nodded at him evenly as he pushed his cup across the counter and the mysterious barman came to fill it.
“I am aware, Zenol. I’m simply referring to truth and lies. My class is [Bard]; I am able to find the truth in ways [Historians] often malign. For instance, the lie King Perric chooses to spread about his marriage to the two members of the Horns?”
“Of course it’s a falsehood!”
Zenol growled. Barelle sighed.
“No, it’s true legally. I have no doubt Medain is capable of manufacturing a way of marrying someone against their will…but of course they never shared a night with him, nor are they infatuated with him. It is a lie Ceria Springwalker once slept with Alchemist Irurx. A lie that makes up the Silver Killer’s reputation for bloodshed. These are not faults of theirs; adventurers attract rumors, and they have been on the scrying orbs more than any other team. It’s just…”
He leaned against the bar and stared at his drink for a while. Cognita and Zenol both leaned in—when she realized she was doing it, she sat upright and glared at Zenol. He tried to hide a smile; her eyes flared red for a moment. He didn’t understand what she’d done until he felt trickling on his lap; there was a hole melted into the side of his cup.
Barelle broke the silence as Zenol got a rag from the [Bartender] and a proper drink.
“Call it arrogance or pride. But they are still not quite the Named-rank team I would choose to follow to see the world shifting. They might well be in time. I’m far more interested in their teammate that isn’t present. Ksmvr of Chandrar. But I…I have been an adventurer, a soldier, a wandering idiot, and a foolish mentor. I know Colthei. He does deserve his rank. But I also remember the day Orchestra emerged from Chalence.”
He ran his fingers across the harp, then, and plucked at a chord of gold. It was in the middle of the harp, and when he plucked it, just once, the room seemed to shift and wobble. Zenol saw Barelle pluck another chord, higher, red like the flames of the Maviola El’s hair, and then a pale white string, short and glittering.
Then, though he sat, though he had no stage and his voice was not a song, Barelle was the [Bard] of stories, and he conjured a vision before Zenol’s eyes. Silver eyes shining like a mane of moonlight. A pair of metal gates that Zenol had seen himself, leading down, down amidst a dredged riverbed—the flash of blonde hair and a weary smile of a man on his knees, then the artificial fake color of dyed hair and a far less graceful smirk.
Barelle spoke, almost like a song.
“The lightest string I play was a gift, neither won nor made of great deeds or mastery in our Waning World. It was given to me by a lonely drinker, a Unicorn fair, though he stopped only long enough to drink a distillery’s worth of brew. To listen to my poor songs, correct them, laugh, and weep. When I talk of true tales, songs worth scribing, that is of which I speak.”
He gestured, and the gates of Chalence opened, and a team stumbled out of it, six strong, not a single part of them unscathed, covered in their own blood, and Zenol saw Deniusth the Violinist falling to his knees.
“I was there when Chalence was conquered. Orchestra was one of the teams that overcame that dungeon and the first to see the sky. I remember the Violinist’s face. That glory he captured here—he never found again. But for a moment, he held it. A battle to end a dozen Named-rank teams, and they dared it. They delved deep and earned that legend and never…never again equaled that day. I’ve played with Orchestra across the years for friendship, for memory, because it is politic among my peers. They never played as well as the music I heard from Chalence that day.”
He played lower now, on that blue string that could sing sadness, and lower still on a black note that hummed and made the floorboards rattle. Zenol’s lips twisted as he remembered his onetime visit to the Adventurer’s Haven when he’d met Deniusth himself and listened to the man’s condescension. The only thing that had taken the magic from that beautiful inn was the guests.
“I was there. By luck, by chance, yes, but I was still there. So perhaps it’s vanity. Perhaps it’s age. Perhaps it is my own failing memory presaged. But I was there when the Forgotten Wing Company was first made. I saw the Labyrinth of Souls’ final test. I have journeyed with Niers Astoragon, Foliana, crewed the Lightning Thief’s ship. The bravest, the best.”
Another flicker of visions. Zenol saw a [Bard] swinging his sword at a Naga, turning as Lizardfolk broke and fled—something. Following a team of adventurers only two of which Zenol knew, only two of which were still living, through a pair of stone gates.
Even Cognita made a sound when the vision cut off, refusing to show what lay beyond. Barelle stopped playing then. He put down the harp in its case and turned to them.
“I suppose I don’t wish to admit a single team has seen more, done more than those old stories. But then, I didn’t see what lay in the heart of the Village of the Dead. Nor do I doubt it was a true legend of the sword that assailed your teams, Zenol. Perhaps they are the sort who will define the stories of adventure for this coming era more than my poor songs. But I don’t see the song I can sing of them. Not yet.”
Zenol looked towards Cognita, hoping she had something to say in the ensuing silence, and she murmured.
“You were one of the auxiliaries of the World’s Founding team?”
“Niers Astoragon treated it like a true company and less an adventuring team. There were hundreds of Gold-rankers who might fight alongside their regulars. Was it a surprise that a [Bard] would tag along? I wasn’t ever a full member of their team, though I did make Named-rank in my own time. Just as well; Jungle Tails and war killed every core member of the team who survived the dungeon aside from the last two.”
Barelle clicked the buckles shut on the harp’s case and slung it onto his back. Silently, the [Bartender] came out to refill his cup, though the [Bard] really didn’t need it. Barelle sat back in his chair, as if nothing had happened.
“Good songs are made of that sort of thing. Deniusth’s bitter triumph, the desperation that made the Titan of Baleros—it isn’t just the heroism or bravery. I think, even now, the Violinist doesn’t understand my song about him is a tragedy. My audience does, but he is willfully, deliberately ignorant. I’m banned from playing it in The Adventurer’s Haven.”
Zenol got his mouth working after a few tries.
“I can assure you, the Horns aren’t merely exaggeration, Barelle.”
“I know. Especially Pisces. And especially if Colthei joined them as a serious member. But I don’t understand them, Zenol. I’ve missed the key, the story that makes their actions make sense. From Albez to the Village of the Dead to the battle at sea…there is a common link. And I only met her once, briefly. Then she died.”
Barelle spread his hands, and there was his frustration written plainly across his face. That of someone who saw the pieces of a puzzle, but was unable to make it work, who missed the key part. He gave Cognita a remorseful look.
“I have failed her tale. And that gnaws at me, Cognita. My guilt is not for the Horns. They’re young. My guilt is for…”
He hesitated.
“Maviola El. Not just her. Torishi Weatherfur. Great women both. No, Shaman Theikha, I am told, also died and came back from the dead, albeit far more quickly  than Erin Solstice. They say her heart beats like the earth itself. These are stories. Even if exaggerated, and part of me doubts they are—in my age, I find myself wishing more and more to capture the weight of a life. Certainly, those two among many I should have captured. Could have.”
“You have never sung of Maviola El? She was certainly the subject of over a hundred different poems and songs over her life.”
Cognita’s eyes flickered as she calmly produced all she remembered of a [Lady]’s entire lifetime. But there was no passion in her eyes, no respect. Barelle was the one Zenol hungered to hear, and the [Bard] ruefully smoothed his hair.
“I confess, no. It’s a funny thing. As a younger man, she was more the subject of romance than a story I thought worth telling. Lady Firestarter playing with hearts like flames, and Gresaria Wellfar.”
“Ah, yes. ‘The Lady of Brine’ by Barelle. A popular sea-shanty at the time. It seems you may have been biased as well. It was not well-received by Lady Gresaria, I believe?”
Zenol had seldom seen Barelle turn red, but he did, and brushed again at his face ruefully before taking a drink.
“It did not endear me, no. Yes, perhaps I was biased. Only later did I have the respect for the long lifetimes both women led, and—and it was her ending that truly made Maviola El’s a story I wanted to tell. The sight of her riding with a burning flag in her final days. Who would not want to tell it? Or to bring a voice to the Doombearers of Izril? To shout how the lies spread about them were wrong, to scream their tales?”
He clenched a fist and then relaxed. Smiled at his clenched fist, as if seeing every wrinkle and spot of age suddenly.
“I can never be everywhere at once, but those are my regrets, Cognita.”
For just a moment, the Truestone Golem wore the faintest of smiles. It vanished after a moment, and she turned her head.
“Your class records history in its own biased ways, but I have always respected it, Barelle. So, you mourn your failures.”
He nodded simply.
“Keenly as I have any other such time I failed to be there. Worse, because I had so many chances. I should have known when I met the Wind Runner’s guests that there was a greater story at play. I thought she had failed. Failed when I met strangers who left my hands quaking and shivering after locking blades with them for but a minute.”
“I do not know…I am familiar with this ‘Wind Runner’ in conjunction with her appearances and relationship with Archmage Eldavin. What guests?”
“Folk like the Winter Sprites, but far more…personable. Far more of everything. I’m surprised you had never heard of them, Cognita.”
Barelle lifted his brows, and Zenol sat forwards again, fascinated. But the Truestone Golem just gave Barelle a long, level stare.
“Winter Sprites? They are a figment of magic. I have never seen objects or creatures matching their description in my existence. My master has issued the same claims as you, regarding these beings, and I must accept they are visible then. But whatever you see, I do not.”
Barelle blinked.
“You don’t see Winter Sprites? Truly? Has one never played a prank on you or…? They’re not magical phenomena, Cognita.”
“I have observed rogue ice magic moving at speed. No…‘sprites’.”
“I swear there have been some on the scrying orb, haven’t there, Barelle?”
Zenol put in, and Barelle nodded. Cognita rolled her eyes.
“I am aware of what you refer to. The Wind Runner is followed by a protective cold spell. It moves erratically, but it is the blessing of a superior [Cryomancer]. Or Archmage Eldavin. If that is what a ‘Winter Sprite’ is, then, like Armored Crawlers, they are a byproduct of old magic.”
Barelle opened his mouth, genuinely flummoxed. He saw Cognita’s annoyed expression, and Zenol bet this wasn’t the first time the Golem had had this conversation. So, Barelle changed subjects.
“I’ve revealed my foibles and failings. What of you, Cognita? Will you tell me what you’re searching for and what you’ve failed to find?”
She hesitated and grew less visibly angry, turning to stare at the racks of bottles on the wall. The Golem touched the hat, then spoke.
“The last [Merchant] was named Itreilld. He was a Drake. As with the others, I attempted to pursue a…system of servitude that I believed would reconcile my memories. My desires. I failed.”
“In what way? You made the first [Merchant], the Stitch-man Boiregon, famous. His Yellat farms…”
Zenol remembered those. A nobody [Merchant] of Cotton growing so rich and profitable with Cognita’s assistance he was accounting for an entire region’s food supply—until she left. He had been elevated to Silk just in time for him to be stripped of his assets by the crown for incompetence. Zenol had heard he’d become a [Beggar] afterwards, unable to even keep his original business afloat.
Cognita struggled for words, and her face was blank, but both men heard emotion in her voice.
“I sought…a replacement…no. I sought a facsimile to my master. A faint—it is impossible to copy what I have lost. What was taken from me.”
She clenched a fist, and again, her eyes flashed. Barelle’s fingers twitched towards his journal. Zenol knew he was longing to take notes, but the [Bard] held still as Cognita spoke on.
“He grovelled in private. He was in awe of me and recognized the value I imparted to him in material and social aspects. Merchant Boiregon begged to touch me. To have intercourse with me, as he so greatly desired.”
Prince Zenol had taken a deep drink from his cup. He held the liquid in his mouth, then slowly let it dribble back into the cup. That was the only sound in the bar. Barelle just exhaled, more tired and more upset than Zenol could remember seeing in him. Perhaps because he knew this story or what came next.
“And eventually, you let him? Or you refused?”
Cognita resumed talking without a break in the flow of words.
“The second man was one said to be kindly, who performed charitable works across his city. He treated me with great esteem, and I was able to fulfill his desires, which were truly charitable. Initially.”
“Initially. What happened—?”
Cognita’s eyes glowed, just a faint spark of light.
“I believe it was exactly fifty-two days, seven hours, and twelve minutes into our partnership when he processed the monetary wealth flowing through his charity’s coffers. It took him twelve days to attempt to reserve a portion of that gold for himself. He lost his nerve. He accepted a dinner invitation with a [Slave Master] Thirez in service to Slave Lady Andra three days thereafter. He may have fallen victim to a Skill. Or participated of his own free will. I dissolved the charity the minute he walked out the door.”
“And the third?”
Zenol asked that. It was like he was being hypnotized. Cognita paused longer.
“A female [Golem Artificer] from Illivere. She had requested my presence to attempt to study and duplicate my creation. Her attentions were obsessive. However, despite her level of 45, she was unable to understand the fundamentals of my creation, a fact which I informed her of. I allowed her to continue her inspection of me despite the increasingly unorthodox nature of her behavior. Her personality grew erratic. She attempted to rewrite my Golem’s heart twice, then to destroy me. I remanded her to the care of Magus-Crafter Femithain.”
“And the last? This Drake?”
The longest silence still.
“It was the work of quite some time to locate and arrange matters such that Merchant Itreilld arrived in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I had the assistance of a [Secretary] of some renown to effect this. His personality was—domineering, I believe the word was. He considered both Djinni and Golems to be inferior.”
“Even you?”
A smile, then, and Zenol found he was having trouble breathing.
“Even me. He took evident pleasure in subjecting me to menial tasks and to enriching his own station. Of them all…it was the most familiar to me. The most comforting.”
Barelle the Bard’s head had sunk down, and he rested it on the harp’s case. Now he appeared old, as if that youth that clung to him were replaced by the faded grey of his hair. The lines of his face deepening.
“As Merchant Itreilld’s confidence grew, his demands increased. I purchased a lesser Djinni in his service. I believe he was courted by an Emir Pazeral in the process of introducing [Slaves] to Drake society by way of Zeres, a process already underway.”
Zenol was not one possessed by anti-Roshal fervor, but he had travelled from Izril’s soil and understood how only Rhir, Baleros, and Chandrar had [Slaves] of any number, and of the lot, Chandrar by far. More than that, he just regarded Cognita and imagined some lesser Drake [Merchant] treating her like…
That felt wrong. More than any [Slave] he had ever seen except, perhaps, that image of Pisces in chains…he was uncomfortable. Barelle was a statue of his own.
Cognita was smiling.
“His demands increased. It was very familiar.”
“To what…?”
Barelle’s eyes flicked to Zenol, and the glance nearly knocked the [Prince] out of his seat; he sprawled against the bar, and Cognita Truestone hesitated. She didn’t want to say, so Barelle did.
“Zelkyr.”
Then—just for a moment—Cognita flinched and looked at Barelle. Zenol wasn’t sure who was older, that Golem or the [Bard] who stared down at the counter. Cognita’s smile vanished. Came back like the flickering of the lamps around the inn. Only it was broken instead.
“I believe his class changed. That state of affairs continued, but nothing surprised me, Barelle. Aside from the familiarity. He was not my Master. I did not love him like Zelkyr. So, this morning I concluded I found only nostalgia, despite my best efforts. Not in Itreilld, nor any of the others, have I found what I sought.”
“Which is someone to serve?”
“I have never known anything else. Before you speak: my long custodianship of Wistram was not a choice I came to independently. I have been waiting. And waiting. And waiting as he bade me. I…was freed. I lost patience.”
She flexed her hands and stared at them. Then rubbed at something under one fingernail. A bit of red flaked from her fingers onto the bar. Cognita peered up at Barelle and then lost her impassive, perfect posture. She reached out, and her smile was something actually fond. The Golem brushed at Barelle’s cheeks.
“That is the sixth time you have wept for me, Barelle the Bard. Tears do not befit you.”
He didn’t wipe at his eyes as she gently produced a cloth. Zenol himself was rubbing at his eyes, but he heard Barelle’s voice clearly.
“I hoped I had helped, Cognita. That you understood something of…I feel I have failed you.”
“Do not delude yourself, Barelle. I understood your arguments. I have conducted my experiment, and the results are clear. This was my choice. I am a Golem.”
“You do not have to have a master.”
He whispered that, and it would have been treasonous in another era. Perhaps even now in the wrong place. Cognita’s reply was just as heartbreaking as Zenol saw what kept Barelle here.
“I wish for one. That is how he made me.”
She stood wearily in a single motion and pushed herself back from the bar. The wood creaked, and Cognita strode towards the door. Two steps, so fast that Zenol and Barelle could only turn. She peered back from the doorway.
“Even the Archmage of Memories could not free me from that.”
Then she was gone.

10.49 Y (2025-11-12)

There was a limit on everything, even genetic stability itself. Funny…people had been doing this desperate song and dance to keep themselves going another standard stellar cycle since before they’d taken to the stars.
These days, you could ‘live’ almost forever by skipping ahead in sub-lightspeed capsules. Instead of higher-speed warp or teleportation tech, you did the basic thing and approached light speed, took a trip for a few lightyears, and popped out to find the world around you had passed dozens or hundreds of years when only one or two had occurred for you.
There was an entire trend of people who’d do that—pop out of capsules, ask what was going on and if anyone had figured out a cure for this or revolutionized immortality yet. But then they’d find that forever wasn’t quite within reach and get back in their capsule if they didn’t like the look of things and wait for a better time.
What annoyed them, Admiral Paethex understood, was that no one treated them like they were special anymore. After the first million ‘ancient ancestors’, you sort of lost respect for them. Especially because they were mostly rich geriatrics trying to outrun time itself.
Plus, there was an entire industry around them, both in the capsules they used…and opportunistic thieves who had learned you could catch such rich passengers and loot their shuttles. It wasn’t even hard. Something moving at light-speed might be hard to catch from a practical standpoint, but if you put a little bit of matter right where they were going…well, the resulting destruction usually meant you slingshotted your payout way too far. Hit a thruster and you had them.
Why did this matter? Oh, well…the alien woman glanced down at her bluish skin, still tingling from her first rejuvenation treatment. She was thinking of the future, that was all.
There would be a point where even ‘refreshing’ her genetic code and cells wouldn’t work. She’d begin dissolving or developing errors despite medical technology essentially tricking her body into thinking it was merely a few dozen solar cycles old.
Death would come. She had hundreds of years in her, especially since she was now First Advance Admiral of the entire Federation’s forces. Not supreme commander, just…the first. They’d won their war against the Oelt-Vaar and their Exosiarc empire, and frankly, they’d probably win the next one even if they ran into another stellar civilization twice as big and advanced.
Her ship would see to that. The Stick would see to that.
…Not that anyone but her crew called it that. They had too many important names for it and her. She’d been made royalty in three different worlds. She couldn’t count the titles, and why not?
The heroine who’d come out of warp with a weapon to reverse the war when the Federation of Myriad Worlds (translated; it sounded better in most other languages) was at the cusp of annihilation?
A story. It had been eighty-nine stellar cycles since that strange day, and she was told…well. She wouldn’t make it back to know if it had all been real or more hallucinations. She wished she could; she owed the strange young woman more than a single combat knife.
Not that she thought things were over. There were a few…oddities she needed to chase down in the Exosiarc’s territory from the war. They were very close-mouthed, even after surrendering. With their leadership decapitated, each planet was in possession of data and not exactly leaping to turn it over to a Federation warship overhead. Ethics in peacetime meant you didn’t get to land troops to seize it or threaten to blow a hole through their tectonic plates until you got what you wanted.
In war—she’d seen plenty of that. But now?
“We could either give the Stick up and join the exploratory fleets or protect time-chasers in their capsules from bandits.”
“Beats having to fight the entire Oelt-Vaar fleet, Admiral. Though how would anyone make us give up the Stick?”
Reiy-Tosiy, who’d survived more ground engagements than he had any right to, had 68% cybernetic or vat-grown parts these days. He’d had the hard job, fighting boarding engagements and ground wars. She had the Stick; there had been close victories, but it had never been an even fight. Paethex glanced at her second-in-command and shrugged.
“They don’t want us to lose it in a black hole or accident. Who knows? A stellar decade of easy action might let us actually relax. I’m not surrendering the Stick.”
That was also why she wasn’t actually the most senior member of the Federation. They had to promote her, but she refused to turn her ship over to another commander, let alone the Stick. It was too powerful. Any one species-member of the Federation who had it could conceivably wipe the others out. Not that they would—but why risk it?
When I’m dead, we need a plan around it. Maybe I should arrange to ‘lose’ it in a black hole. The only problem was that all the scientists who she talked to didn’t want to speculate whether or not a black hole would survive meeting the Stick. She almost wanted to try it just to see what would happen.
A bit of insanity, a bit of delusions from having this much power and war-shock. She’d seen her own psychiatric reports that all her superiors probably read as introduction material to their jobs. Was she supposed to be sane after eighty years of war?
…It didn’t matter. The point was, it was done. War’s over. And it would be a long, long time before anyone could report back to Ryoka Griffin how much she’d done for them. Her adventures were classified, but there were a few stories written by members of her crew and published as sheer fantasy—they did good numbers every year on the anniversary. And there was speculation among the science-teams from the old Victory Company, the originals. No one else had the qualifications or had been there.
The science-teams thought that there might be a chance that Ryoka Griffin would someday hear the report, if they managed to remember and arrange for it to be sent. It’d be hard, because time wasn’t on their side. If their measurements and the Wind Runner’s frankly inaccurate accounting of her own world were accurate, then they could do a bit of sketch-match to extrapolate relative timelines.
For every year she’d have, Paethex would have to live…
“No sense speculating about the future. Tell the crew to stand down.”
It had been eighty-one stellar cycles since she’d given the order. Victory Company Delsa’s remaining members sighed, and Paethex didn’t hear cheering. Just the silence of hands shaking, bows being exchanged by different species, seal-locks on helmets disengaging.
Relief.
She herself shook hands with Reiy-Tosiy’s stub-fingered hands as he took care not to squash her more delicate, rejuvenated skin. Someone went to break out refreshments.
“You know, Admiral. I heard they found them. Humans.”
Admiral Paethex halted, about to cycle a drink into her suit. Everyone turned, and she focused on Reiy-Tosiy.
“You’re sure? It’s not some other group of…?”
“The names line up. And I saw a recording. It’s way on the edge of the Saathas Frontier. They missed the entire damn war. But—the times don’t match up. I had the Ambassador of Contacts on line, and they inquired for me. They claim it’s ‘2533’. Centuries past the right date. Nor did a database search of all their networks pull any names up.”
She exhaled.
“Could just be…our version of them. Let’s add it to our list of places to check out. At the very least, I’m interested.”
“That’s what I thought. And hey, they made it another five hundred years. Only lost half a continent. Not exactly a vacation spot, so we’ll have to suit up.”
She nodded and smiled.
“Why don’t we set it as our first course? We can’t just shoot through Exosiarc space minutes after the peace.”
“Drawing on the Stick, Admiral. Drive is at 13425%.”
“Onwards.”
The space-alien woman returned to her seat, but she leaned over to her second just once as he smiled and they signalled they were moving in advance of the rest of the fleet, as always. She ignored the hails demanding to know where she was going; she’d file the report later. It was easier that way.
“What about that distortion, Reiy?”
He lowered his voice.
“We’re still scrubbing through their records, Admiral. If it’s still there, we’ll find it. But they knew what they’d found, and it’s beyond even their top-secret files. Sounds like they spun out a task force just for it, like we were.”
“Keep checking. I want it found. It’s the last task we’ve got, Reiy. We’ve got as long as we’re still here to do it.”
He nodded, and she settled back. She could only do what she could reach. And, frankly, even if that door to that place opened up in front of her again, she’d want more than her flagship to go back there again.
More than ‘nerf guns’ to face all of that. But a favor was owed—she’d have to write it down. Find a successor. Hells, a lineage. She didn’t even have a partner, and a full quarter of the Federated Territories seemed willing to line up for that role.
That was her business. But she had to keep that record. Figure out how to make them understand…
Then someone hit the activation panel next to her and they vanished.
 
——
 
Space. The final frontier. The last journey beyond even the end of the world. These were the true untamed wilds that would remain even after you sailed over the edge of The Last Tide and came back again.
It was a great comfort, you see. For if you somehow, in your arrogance, ever felt this world was too small, that all the great adventures had been had, that the world was waning and you with it, you could look up and remember no one had gone there.
“It will be the voyage of the Star Tribe: Aetherfur. Or something like that. Their mission: to explore strange new wilds and seek out new sights, creatures, and peoples. To go where no one has gone before. Except for that damn Dragon. And Gnomes.”
They weren’t her words. Yvlon Byres, lying on her back as the carpet flew through the cold night air of Chandrar, could remember the growl of her only teacher and master’s voice. Berr the Berserker as he drank and pointed up at the sky after training, laughing at his own jokes about what the future might hold.
She missed him. Which was strange, because Yvlon Byres had never ‘missed’ a teacher before. Not her instructors as a girl, [Armsmen] and [Weapon Trainers] and [Tutors] and [Court Women], even, who had taught her how to fight, arithmetic, manners, and everything else.
She had endured them. Been a good student, imitating Ylawes, and they had praised her for being mannered and attentive to her parents. However, they hadn’t taught her things. Just instructed her.
It was hard to explain the difference. It was like stones, Yvlon supposed. She could carve a number into a stone. And thereafter it would remain if you’d etched it deep enough, though it might fade for weathering and time. Like that, she knew math, how to care for armor, the ways in which she was to curtsey if she had a dress…well, mostly.
But Berr was a teacher. What he taught her, she remembered and tried to actually use. He changed part of the stone that was Yvlon into something else. Transmuted it rather than just left an etching by repetition. She wondered if he was alright.
Berr the Berserker had lots of wisdom, and they’d spent a lot of time together. Mostly working on her temper, but he’d had plenty of moments like that where he’d tell jokes or talk about things like the stars, and she’d listen, not bored or pretending to be attentive like she’d done with her tutors.
Possibly because he’d told her to stop being so…polite. He’d smacked her often enough when she tried to keep her cool until she’d try to punch him.
“Everything you are is like a bottle corked up tight, Yvlon. Whether you’re rotten or something tasty inside, I wouldn’t know. I’ve met Cork-Humans like you before, and Drakes too, but you’re one of the worst. How must you have been raised, yes?”
“I had a perfectly normal upbringing.”
She remembered telling him that and him shaking his head.
“Then I should take my Wild Wastes tribe north! For there are a thousand fine [Berserkers] who would make my tribe the fiercest in Izril if I can only pry the [Ladies] from their households!”
It had offended her greatly when he said that, because it was true. Now, it made her smile. She wasn’t over her ‘Cork Problem’ as he insisted in calling it.
“Someday, you’ll have no need of the cork for your bubbling fury. I’ve taught you how to make the seal actually secure and how to unleash it, but peace…peace on its own will be good, yes? Who knows how you’ll find it. Maybe it’ll be good sex.”
“Master, please.”
“I’m serious. Really good sex, the kind that annihilates your entire [Berserker’s Rage] Skill. Don’t scowl at me. You wouldn’t know. Maybe it’ll be something else. But you should be more honest.”
Yvlon of House Byres not honest and straightforward? House Byres, a watchword in integrity, producing a daughter that was anything less than silver and steel, pure of heart and action? Somehow, she was. Tarnished. And that had been a problem until she met him.
It still was. She still had moments, but she was a bit better.
A bit. She’d made it part of her style. She couldn’t erase who she was, after all.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the Silver Killer of Izril, but the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous…”
She murmured it up at the stars, smiling to herself. She could say it without even checking her notes these days. She’d said it a bit too loud, though, because someone groaned and rolled over.
“Oh dead gods, she’s saying it in her sleep.”
Yvlon sat up with a faint scowl, mostly of amusement, and kicked Ceria lightly.
“I’m not asleep.”
“That’s even worse.”
The half-Elf was wrapped up in her blankets like a sausage on the flying carpet, Reizue’s Dream. Everyone was either wrapped up and asleep or silent like Yvlon.
Nawalishifra, curled up and still, clearly wondered how she’d gotten tangled up in this crazy adventure. Elena snoozed in the middle of the carpet, well away from the sides where the world rushed below. Pisces read in a little igloo of blankets, a tuft of brown hair framing his concentrating face. Colthei, face illuminated by a [Message] spell or [Scrying] orb as he yawned, green hair touseled—eyes still sharp as he glanced at them.
And Ceria, the Ice Sausage herself, chewing on her mended circlet like it was some kind of pacifier as she yawned again. Her pale skin and new…species…meant that her blankets were frozen over with a light layer of frost.
Why she needed blankets given her ability to endure freezing weather was beyond Yvlon. She kicked Ceria again.
“You’re freezing. I’m trying to admire the stars. Go somewhere else.”
“I’ll roll off the side of the carpet again.”
“You’ll live. Why do you need blankets?”
“It feels weird without them. What’re you doing, trying to sleep? Counting stars? Admiring our new moon?”
Ceria could be annoying sometimes. But it could be she was still nervous. Free from morality she might be, but the half-Elf kept glancing up at the, well…cracked moon.
Some time had passed since it had broken. Enough for the discussions of why and what and whether or not Erin had anything to do with it were over. Nor had Pisces sensed another ‘death anomaly’ as he’d put it.
All worrying things; Yvlon’s ears actually hurt from the sheer amount of discussions that had taken place with everyone. They’d sent [Messages] and gotten confused updates about a Goblin King, sightings of a giant Harpy—the Death of Wings?
Yvlon had been tensed then, knowing she could do nothing. The relief had come from a single update from Lyonette—
‘All is well. No one is dead. Will update you as soon as we can.’
Which, of course, might mean anything according to Ceria and Colth, who were all twisted up with theories about what Lyonette could or could not say via [Message]. Or how the inn related to a Goblin King—and then they’d heard about this Goblin Lord Ragathsi who had a very similar sounding name…
Worrying. Worrying for hours and hours until they had to accept they were too far to do anything. Yvlon just rested now. She couldn’t help anyone in Izril. So, she just shook her head at Ceria, ignoring the green moon. She’d figure out what had cracked it someday, or not. If it was a monster, they’d have to fight it.
Instead, the [Armsmistress] pointed past it, at the stars.
“No. Just dreaming what’s out there. Berr once said that Gnolls had tried to go that high. That each light might be like a lighthouse in some sea.”
Ceria followed Yvlon’s gaze, then stared at her face. Some of the tension around her faded, and she sat back, and actually looked at anything but that green moon.
“…Huh. I would have never thought you’d be thinking of that.”
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] blinked in genuine astonishment at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] tapped her chest, slightly smug at Ceria’s surprise.
“I am a [Dreamer].”
“Yeah, Level 2.”
“Level 9.”
“Uh huh. Even after meeting the King of Destruction himself you can’t pass Level 10. I’d have hit Level 30 if I actually dreamed. I—ow, quit it! Stop kicking me! Okay, fine, fine! Sheesh.”
Ceria rolled over until she nearly ran into the final group: Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace. They didn’t shove her away; they were, after all, here to support and help the Horns as part of Delitandra’s bet.
Named-rank within the year. Potentially important people, if not quite on the level of the King of Destruction and his Seven. Yvlon lay back down. She pulled the thick, woolen blankets over her and tried to sleep.
They’d be in Nerrhavia’s Fallen soon. Well, they were technically ‘in’ Nerrhavia’s Fallen already, but the capital was their destination. Buler had flown for many days and nights to get them here, with little sleep; he dozed at his post, but never dared lie down. Not while piloting Reizue’s Dream.
That had to be unhealthy for a boy like that. Someone should do something about him. If this were Izril, Yvlon just bet Erin would offer him a room, or Lyonette would adopt him, and then he and Mrsha and Nanette would be flying around the High Passes. Right before a Wyvern kidnapped them and she had to climb a mountain and kill it.
The [Armsmistress] supposed…she had changed a lot from the Silver-rank woman she’d been; always impatient, always trying to both be a model leader and get out of Ylawes’ shadow. She felt calmer now.
All her anger was right where Berr had told her it’d be. All her fear about Ksmvr, too, the rage at seeing Erin’s state after being captured on that ship, at that Admiral—it wasn’t even that hot given that it had been a long time since the Winter Solstice. It was fine where it was. When she needed to, she’d take the seal off.
“Then you kill everything. Everything you don’t know should live. It’s very simple. I see it, it vanishes. Kill and kill when your hour calls…”
 
——
 
Across from Yvlon, Pisces stopped reading his spellbook and glanced up as a few of her words drifted towards him on the howling wind. He’d only caught some of that. Mostly, it sounded to him like Yvlon whispering, ‘kill, kill, kill’ to herself.
He traded a peek with Colthei, and the [Ultimate Supporter] shrugged and gave Pisces a tentative thumbs up. The [Necromancer] eyed Yvlon, then went back to reading. When he glanced up, he saw Nawal’s eyes were wide and bloodshot, locked on Yvlon’s back. He gave her a reassuring smile. She gave him a look like he was insane.
In truth, Pisces had no idea how Yvlon was so sanguine. He was worried about The Wandering Inn and that being of pure undeath he’d sensed. It had risen like some herald of a dark age, then…vanished.
Hidden or dead? He’d sent a few [Messages] to certain contacts he had and been reassured it was being looked into, but he wondered if he had understated the threat. Could you understate…? It was not the Draconic Titan his contacts had cited, Pisces knew that much. It was something worse, and he’d told them that in no uncertain terms.
Funny. His involvements in Izril…he had to go back sooner or later. Once this was done, Pisces had obligations. Another odd feeling for a man who had been outcast and criminal for so long. But he had made promises, not just to Erin and her inn. It was just that he had to keep his in Chandrar first.
He focused on reading. Tried to take a note from Yvlon and do something productive. Besides, Nawal’s fears of Yvlon were utterly misplaced. If she should have feared someone, it was Colth. The Ultimate Supporter was likewise engrossed in working with some odd beads and trinkets to the side. Sorting them, stringing them together in complex patterns…Pisces eyed it from the side.
They didn’t seem magical, but that was the best kind of secret communications device, wasn’t it? It was so adept…Pisces wondered if Silvenia herself had enchanted them. Probably not, but he just bet Colth was communicating with some Demon or other.
Likely about the position and whereabouts of the caravan of [Slaves] the Horns had freed. They’d left the group to scavenge what they could from Roshal’s caravan, but then the [Slaves] and [Riders] had just upped and ridden into the desert. Reprisals would soon follow. The woman in charge hadn’t recognized Colth; she’d talked to Pisces like she knew him. Or knew of him.
‘Our leader wishes to meet with you, Scourge. Strings willing, we shall see it done. For now, there are too many eyes. Come to the eastern wilds, and anyone with ears will hear your name and make contact.’
Straightforwards enough, he supposed. They hadn’t had time to talk. Colth…Pisces wondered if he coordinated with freed [Slaves] or if the Demons did their own thing. One glance up from the green-haired man showed that Colth was aware Pisces was watching him. Pisces peered down at his spellbook as Colth kept arranging the beads again.
First, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Then they’d have to avoid eyes or tails on them before making contact. So much to do…so Pisces kept studying. A spell for all his worries. A spell might save everyone’s lives, including his own.
He wondered…which one had cracked the moon.
 
——
 
Yvlon wasn’t actually inclined to dream at the moment. They’d be arriving in Nerrhavia’s Fallen soon; the night-like atmosphere around them belied the actual time. Reizue’s Dream was flying so high they were in the ‘upper sky’ as Buler called it, where it was cold and you saw the world differently than the ground.
He was doing that partly to avoid any watchful eyes; apparently, he was higher than some [Scrying] spells manifested by default. But also, Yvlon suspected, so that the Horns wouldn’t leap down and kill another [Slaver] caravan if they saw one below.
He was a good kid. She hoped Queen Yisame was paying him well, and it was she who had arranged for the Horns to get here. Since it got them out of Flos Reimarch’s hands, it was good, and they needed to be here. Pisces was searching for his comrades who’d escaped Roshal, Yvlon needed to make sure Mectail, Thexca, Vitte, and the others were okay. They had helped her, along with Zenol, and she had sort of betrayed Thelican and Nerrhavia’s Fallen when last she left.
Ceria…
Ceria was just along for the ride. Though she’d said that she’d like to visit the Library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes while they were there. And Colth’s friends were far north, in Zethe, but he was supporting Pisces.
The point was, the Horns had to be here. So it wasn’t bad they had made this long journey, even if it wasted time. They’d do their work and go. Catch up with Ksmvr in Baleros.
She hoped he was okay.
 
——
 
Yvlon just didn’t know what she’d say to Yisame. She had the vague impression the [Queen] of one of Chandrar’s most powerful nations liked her, but she didn’t honestly know why.
Yisame just hadn’t met the others yet. She was a fan of adventurers. Once they got there, Yvlon would thank Yisame for her letters, support, go to the Coliseum of Monarchs and check on her friends, and maybe give them gold or something as a thank-you for what they’d done. She wished she had more, but she hadn’t taken any meaningful souvenirs from the Meeting of Tribes, and she only had gold.
Her only possessions were her armor, a breastplate that was moderately enchanted, battered leggings, a mithril buckler she never used anymore, her underarmor from Stalker’s hide, a pillow with a Goblin stitched onto it she’d won from a Gnoll [Shaman] that gave her weird dreams, and two rings she’d taken from the corpse of one of the adventurer who had slain the Putrid One.
Small stuff. She wasn’t like Pisces, who had his rapier that was steel and bone fused together, his many undead, and a spellbook written by Djinni, not to mention the bell he’d won from the City of Shields itself. Colth? Colth had everything, from leggings, armguards, and a helm made out of Stalker’s hide to his twin Bane Daggers and a bag of holding that had so many objects he could use from climbing gear to cards to cowpats for some reason.
And Ceria? All the robes and clothing she’d also looted from the City of Shields, two powerful magical circlets, and her master’s spellbook. Yvlon didn’t mind being low on items; she had a simple style with her arms. She didn’t even need a sword—
“Right, Ksmvr’s sword. Got to grab that too.”
Didn’t that Empress of Beasts have it? That’d be a problem. Maybe they could hire Buler to take them north. To another port city; she doubted he’d be able to fly over the sea. Before they flew off, they just needed to run up, punch the Empress, and grab the sword.
Violence wasn’t Yvlon’s first solution to problems. It just felt like it’d skip a lot of pointless negotiations in that case.
Yes, things seemed clear to Yvlon. She rolled up in her blankets as Buler yawned from the front of the huge carpet. They were descending, Yvlon realized, and she heard the boy call out after a moment.
“Honored ladies, gentlemen, and crazy adventurers, we are on our final approach to our destination, the exalted city of Tyrant’s Rest in the heart of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, may her bones rot forever. At this time, we ask you to fasten your belts, please, and stow all blankets. Or you will fall to your deaths, and it would be a shame upon Reizue’s Dream’s record. If you would look over the right-hand side, you may also see the fantastical city of Aeresuth, said to be a jewel of even Nerrhavia’s Fallen, whose streets run with waters from magical fountains even in the dry desert.”
Yvlon peered over the side of the carpet he indicated and saw no city, but a huge depression in the ground. She glanced at Buler, and he hesitated.
“Ah…forgive me. Where the city of Aeresuth was but a year ago until the dread Djinni, Drenirkessun, perished and dragged a million screaming souls into damnation with him. Such a loss still echoes through the great kingdom today. And now we can see Tyrant’s Rest, built on the bones of the Immortal Tyrant herself!”
That was at least familiar to Yvlon, and she felt her stomach rising in her chest as they descended further, and the city glittered in the evening sunlight. They were actually at a slant, and Ceria went rolling past her.
“Uh oh. Uh oh, I’m tangled—this isn’t a bit. Someone stop me, someone—”
Yvlon stopped her with a foot, and Ceria untangled herself from her blankets.
“Phew!”
“Seatbelts, honored and stupid passengers!”
Yvlon had already fastened hers, and Ceria did the same. The carpet rippled as they passed over a breeze, and Pisces turned green. Even Colthei grinned with a bit of tension as they descended.
“Flying carpets. The approach and takeoff are the most dangerous parts. We’re hitting different layers of wind, you see, and we’re only on magical cloth; if he hits a bad patch of air, we could spin and go into freefall.”
“Colth, please shut up. So that’s Tyrant’s Rest. It’s very…pretty. What a massive palace.”
Pisces murmured. Yvlon had to admit, the palace was huge—it put Medain and Reim’s to shame. It truly was fitting of such a massive kingdom. Colthei nodded to himself.
“Alright, Horns. We’re about to enter a dangerous and political arena. I’d say we have an hour until we’re landing, Buler?”
“An hour and thirty minutes unless the winds rise against us, Adventurer Colthei!”
“Right, plenty of time to go over how we’re acting and the state of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“We’ve all been in Chandrar before, Colth. Yvlon was even a guest of Yisame.”
Ceria pointed out mildly as Elena scooted over with Delitandra. Strange how their little team now had followers. Even Nawal crawled over, clinging to seatbelts to listen. Yvlon didn’t really care for the Heromakers, but she liked Elena. They were all respectfully silent, though. Colth rolled his eyes at Ceria.
“Yes, I know. And you all made an amazing hash of things. Every single nation you’ve been to wants you dead.”
“Not Medain. High King Perric just wants us in his harem.”
Pisces sniffed.
“Pomle was quite lovely for the fifteen seconds I saw it. I’m given to understand Ksmvr made quite the impression on Tiqr and Illivere.”
“Yeah, that’s why I didn’t include him. You three all made messes of things. If Ksmvr were here, I’d tell him to just be himself. He has good instincts somehow. You don’t. So listen. The first rule of being high-level adventurers is never pick a side. Never commit to anything, never issue any statements supporting any side in the war with Reim or even in the palace!”
Yvlon nodded along as Colth pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“I’ve got a list of names for you to memorize—actually here, just take this and I’ll make a copy. If they’re on this list, they’re important. Dangerous. It’s got factions too.”
“Ooh, color-coordinated no less. Colth, you’re so helpful.”
Ceria’s eyes lit up as she read the document, and Pisces did likewise with genuine interest. But he studied Drake politics for fun. Yvlon took one look at the names grouped by royal houses and bloodlines and got a headache. She smiled at Colth.
“This is good, Colth. But we don’t have to worry too much. We’re on Yisame’s side.”
He opened his mouth. Gazed at Pisces and Ceria.
“No, I think you just didn’t hear everything I said, Yvlon. We’re the Horns. A neutral party.”
“But Yisame helped us. And she’s the [Queen].”
“Yes, but she’s also…the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Her interests are not going to coincide with ours, and she might have to make an example out of us for what you did to that General Pelican.”
“Right, but she is friendly towards us. Great Sage Etrikah too. So if I can, I’d like to repay her.”
Yvlon pointed out reasonably. Colth put his fingers together and pressed them towards his lips.
“Ceria? Pisces? I get the feeling I’m speaking, but Yvlon isn’t quite hearing me.”
“Oh, she does that. Don’t worry.”
“So she’s actually taking my words to heart?”
“Nope. Yvlon’s gonna Yvlon. You want to argue her out of things? You should have started three days ago. Hey, Zenol’s in Nerrhavia’s Fallen? We owe him too.”
“Zenol! Another person we owe. He seemed to be in hardship too.”
Yvlon snapped her fingers, and Colth began to ruffle his hair up.
“No, no. I know him. Village of the Dead, right? We can be friendly towards him, but he’s not on our side. He’s House Isphel, and they don’t have much going for them at all.”
“We can change that. Isn’t he fighting with a Prince Esceit or something? I beat his representatives once in the Coliseum of Monarchs. Oh, and I started the metal insect swarm. That might be a problem.”
Yvlon was sighing, folding her metal arms as she thought of all the problems she’d caused. At this point, Elena, Delitandra, Nawalishifra, and Buler all turned to stare at her. A vein began to work on Colth’s forehead.
“Okay, never say that again. In fact, why don’t we try from the start. Yvlon? What are we here to do?”
“Repay our debts, collect Ksmvr’s sword, and get out of Chandrar and get to Baleros.”
“Good! Now, what would be the worst thing to do once we get to the Court of Silks where they’ll be trying to get us to commit to any one side? To get entangled in Nerrhavia’s Fallen politics?”
“Commit to a side.”
“Perfect, we’re all speaking common here! So Queen Yisame is…?”
 
——
 
“Horns of Hammerad, welcome to Nerrhavia’s Fallen where the bones of tyrants rest!”
The [Herald] almost screamed the words as soon as they had disembarked from the carpet. The Horns, Delitandra’s company, Nawalishifra, Elena, and Buler, whom Yvlon was pulling with them despite his protests, halted as the grand doors were thrown open.
Pisces almost drew his sword as a pair of [Acrobats] flipped out the doors past him, and golden streamers of silk or some glittering material flew past them.
Yvlon was hit by the wail of stringed instruments played by an entire orchestra and saw bowing [Servants] by the hundred, each one dressed in bright reds, greens, and blues, silk clothing, though they were Cotton.
The Court of Silks were made of Silk-caste Stitch-folk. They stood as a swooping Djinni blew blue flames that lit a trio of chandeliers hanging over the vast chambers of tiered steps.
On the far end of the room was the throne and Queen Yisame. The Horns of Hammerad stood there as commonfolk cheered and scrambled for the little strips of cloth floating past them. Pisces’ mouth was open. Ceria was grinning and waving. Colth’s face was a perfect smile.
It was all very impressive. Elena was gasping as another rank of performers moved past them, tumbling and flipping through the air. She was smiling, and Buler, for all his deeds and the fame of his own carpet, was stunned.
He reached out, and the Stitch-boy hesitantly snatched one of the pieces of cloth-confetti. Then he grabbed another; Yvlon saw one of Delitandra’s people doing the same, and she noticed the commonfolk prohibited from the actual Court of Silks itself were on their hands and knees. Grabbing at the strips.
“What are they doing, Buler?”
He showed her the piece of silk he was holding, dyed gold.
“It’s—it’s silk, Adventurer Yvlon. Silk. And they just give it away! If I had a hundred strips of this—”
Oh, she understood. Stitch-folk; silk was produced en-masse in Chandrar, but it still commanded a high price because Stitch-folk wanted it so badly. With a hundred strips of this silk, Buler could change his cloth to Silk, which conferred upon him the rank and prestige and body even Revi couldn’t afford.
It was like throwing gold coins, she supposed. But even more personal to the people fighting for just one scrap. Fascinating. They hadn’t done that for her, but then, she’d been a [Gladiator] wrongly imprisoned when she had first come here.
For the Horns, after the Crossroads, their reception was far more impressive. Or perhaps it was Yisame. She was smiling, or so Yvlon thought; a fan was covering her face, and she had told Yvlon once that she had to be dignified and show no emotions in public. Great Sage Etrikah had said the same thing.
Actually, where was the Fox Beastkin woman? The old and grumpy [Sage] wasn’t visible; she was probably ignoring this event. Yisame and Etrikah were the only two people that Yvlon really knew in the palace aside from Zenol.
So in a way, this was her true visit to Nerrhavia’s Fallen as a visitor. Yvlon began to step forwards, but then the [Herald] started shouting.
“The Horns of Hammerad have conquered the Ruins of Albez! They challenged the Village of Dead and survived! They—”
Oh, wait, he was still talking. Yvlon held still and watched her team’s reactions. Ceria was purely amused, which made sense, but she had a glint in her eyes as she surveyed the room. Good. She was ice underneath her fun prankster personality. Yvlon didn’t like her circlet, but she could admit Ceria’s intelligence was an asset here.
Colth was giving nothing away, but Pisces…Pisces was gazing at the golden collars on some of the [Servants]—no, [Slaves]. His teeth were bared. When Yvlon touched his arm, he jumped.
“Be calm, Pisces.”
“Same to you. This is—you said the [Queen] liked us.”
“She likes us a lot? I think she’s a fan of Ksmvr. He is continent-famous after that series. See Zenol?”
“Where?”
There were a lot of people. But their conversation distracted Pisces from the [Slaves]. Yvlon understood his feelings, but they had to remain cool.
Cool as Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s [Mages] threw illusions into the air. Giants covered in chains being freed. A storm of swords and a black citadel falling. The history of the nation that had ended Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant.
It was all quite overwhelming. Yvlon was doing her best, but she was feeling slightly overawed. She knew the rest of her team was holding it together, but she’d never had this much attention or seen this much wealth on display. So she did the only thing that made sense:
She closed her eyes. The noise still roared over her, but if Yvlon just pretended there weren’t as many people in front of her, it worked.
Calm, Berr had said. You had to stay calm in moments like these or someone picked your pocket.
She checked them now. Just in case. She was reassured everything was where it should be; her two Relic-class rings were on her fingers, and her bag of holding was at her side. Then she glanced down and cracked an eye open.
“Buler? Where are you going?”
He was edging back, trying to hide behind her. Back to his carpet.
“This isn’t the place for me, Adventurer Yvlon. Not for a [Carpet Rider]! I am not even dressed to be a [Slave]!”
It was true, he was bare-chested aside from a jacket, and she’d wondered how he’d endured the cold high above, and his pants had patches in them.
“You should pay for better pants. But you brought us here. If you want to see this place…”
She handed him a few gold coins in case he needed them. Buler gaped up at her.
“Are you closing your eyes? In front of all this?”
“It’s very overstimulating. Try it if you’re too dazzled by all this gold and magic.”
She smiled at him. Delitandra glanced at Yvlon, frowning. She said something, but the noise was still so overwhelming that Yvlon barely heard her.
Oh, and now they were showcasing artifacts from Nerrhavia Fallen’s armories. Weren’t they retreating in the face of the King of Destruction? After the first hundred magical swords, Yvlon wondered if they wouldn’t be better served in the armies.
She closed her eyes again; she’d been taking peeks despite her closed eyes. Then Colth grabbed her arm.
“We should move forwards! They’re going to be doing this for a while. Yvlon, remain calm. Pretend like you’ve seen this bef—are you closing your eyes?”
She opened them.
“What? Oh, we can move? You seem rattled.”
“This is a lot more than I thought. I knew Nerrhavia’s Fallen was rich, but they don’t have these kinds of displays in Roshal even!”
He hissed at her, and she checked for Elena and Buler; they followed after her, for all Buler’s claims he didn’t belong. Eyes and mouths open as they trailed into the celebrations, and it wasn’t all about them. It just…revolved around the Horns.
They advanced into the heart of the welcoming celebration, and it got more frantic. Yvlon had to admit, by now, her heart rate was elevated, which was highly embarrassing. Do what Berr would do. She could just picture the old [Berserker] nodding and smiling along, having a drink. He wouldn’t be fazed by all this.
So, Yvlon took a drink from a passing [Servant]’s platter and took a sip. Strong wine. She tried not to make a face…then realized the rest of the Horns were staring at her.
“Yvlon, what—?”
“Too strong for me. Here.”
She passed Ceria the cup, and the half-Elf woman blinked at it. She took a sip, eyed around, then took a huge gulp, poured the rest over her head, and the cheering nearly deafened Yvlon. She cracked one eye open again.
“Yvlon what are you doing with your eyes?”
“Closing them. We’re supposed to be collected, Pisces.”
“Collected? They’re firing Tier 4 spells off as entertainment nonstop. That! Did you see that? She’s barely wearing any—”
“Don’t be lewd. Buler, close your eyes. Oh—”
Then Yvlon saw they were in the middle of the room, and the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was gazing at her. From behind the veil and fans, flanked by a lot of important people. Still, the celebrations were going on.
But she was right there. How long did Colth say this was going to be? Thirty minutes? Yvlon glanced at her team, but they were all pressed together, not mingling like the Court of Silks. They were having drinks and pointing, smiling at the Horns.
Possibly laughing along. Or laughing at them? It was unclear; they had to appear rather foolish standing here. So Yvlon squared her shoulders. She knew how the Court of Silks worked. She’d been here once before.
So, Yvlon broke ranks with her team and strode through the banners of silk being tossed in waves. The cheering and music faltered a beat as she walked past someone about to leap through a flaming ring of magic in the air. She lifted a hand in apology. She just had to get to the Court of Silks—perfect.
The nobles recoiled from her as Yvlon smiled and brushed a second layer of armor made out of colorful silk off her arms. She peered around, but the [Herald] wasn’t shouting more things. So Yvlon walked past the nobility.
Now, how did it go? She approached the throne as the noise died down immensely. Yvlon was concentrating, drawing on that old memory hewn into her. The right curtsey for royalty wasn’t practiced in Izril, of course, but she’d definitely learned—
Ah. About two dozen steps from Queen Yisame, Yvlon Byres realized she didn’t have a dress on. Cow dung. But turning on her heel would be too embarrassing and disrespectful.
She did halt when a pair of golden swords crossed in front of her. The Silver Killer of Izril eyed a dozen bodyguards who were flanking her on either side. Blades held just over her head.
A Chandrarian custom, perhaps. It was a narrow passageway, and she would have cut her blonde hair if she didn’t walk perfectly straight and narrow. But she threaded the gap perfectly as they gazed at her. One pivoted, and the sword came up towards her throat—she pinched the blade before it could touch her skin. Moved it back just so.
She hoped no one had seen his mistake. The [Bodyguard] met her gaze and pleasant smile. He was sweating. Then a voice spoke.
“Allow her approach.”
Then the swords withdrew, and Yvlon nodded. Perfectly timed. She walked forwards as the [Bodyguards] stood by the throne, and the [Queen] did not rise, but the woman who was her Voice spoke imperiously.
“Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer of Izril. We remember your name and grant you leave to approach.”
Tact. Apoliticality. She remembered everything Colth had told her. So, the Gold-rank adventurer walked forwards eight steps until it was just her in front of the golden throne. She executed a bow, arm across her chest, like she’d seen Ylawes do.
Then she gazed up and smiled at the [Queen] who was blinking rapidly at her behind the fan. She couldn’t see Yisame’s lips or much of her face, but Yvlon smiled with genuine good feeling.
“Queen Yisame. My friend. It’s good to see you again. I apologize for how I left. I have returned to make amends.”
She paused, waited for a response, but Queen Yisame said nothing. The Voice’s mouth was slightly open as Yvlon glanced at her, and the [Armsmistress] counted to ten before she swivelled on her heel and strode back to her team.
They hadn’t moved from where they’d been standing. The music took a bit too long to start up. Then there was a rise of noise and voices, and Yvlon exhaled as she turned back to face the dais. She nodded at Ceria, Colth, Pisces—they all had open mouths as they gaped at her. She elbowed them hard.
“You should have followed me up. What are you lot doing? That was slightly uncomfortable.”
Good thing she’d saved it. Yvlon smiled. Then, as the entire Court of Silks stared at this Gold-rank adventurer so unimpressed by their display she had approached the [Queen] herself and dared her [Bodyguards] to stop her—the Silver Killer who spoke to a [Queen] like an equal—
Yvlon Byres closed her eyes again.
 
——
 
Buler had to go; he had work, and his job was done. But he paused long enough to knock on the door to the suite the Horns of Hammerad had been accorded in the royal wing.
It took some doing to get there. Only the fact that he’d been with the Horns at their welcoming ceremony let him get past the surly [Guards] and annoying Master of Rooms or Mistresses of Ceremony and countless flunkies that the palace had.
And his status as a [Carpet Rider], of course, but that was a strange thing. The carpet, the Reizue’s Dream, mattered far more than Buler. That was why, as Yvlon had noticed, he wore patched pants and a jacket that had only a small [Warmth] spell sewn into it by a kindly [Seamstress] he had once met.
The Guild took most of what he made; the rest Buler either sent to the [Cook] on Burlap Street in Merreid who’d raised him or spent on Reizue’s Dream. The Guild, damn them, never gave enough coin back to properly upkeep such a vast carpet, and there was always work to be done, if one was skilled enough. It was old. Even maintaining the magic cost a river’s worth of gold, and Buler could not make it flow, despite his work.
He figured maybe he’d buy some pants and some meals for himself with Yvlon’s coin. Since it was a gift and not a tip; the tip had come from Pisces, and it would go into the Guild’s coffers as well.
This told the Stitch-boy that Yvlon Byres knew something of Nerrhavia’s Fallen already. That there was a method to her madness, and the palace was abuzz with her madness. Yet surely, he felt, she knew enough to understand what an interesting reception that had been. Delitandra and the Heromakers, the boy knew, would understand the rest.
He did not play the ‘great’ game of politics, but a [Carpet Rider] had to understand such things lest he lose his head. It was…interesting to say the least.
New adventuring teams were beloved in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but to have one so celebrated, with the [Queen] in attendance no less, befit only a Named-rank team of legends. Thusly, it showed the [Queen]’s favor in spades! At the same time, the Horns had stepped off the carpet and into such a demonstration which was quite calculated to make them appear less impressive and, certainly, gave them no warning.
Were it not for the Silver Killer’s actions distracting all and sundry, they might have well appeared like bumpkin provincials, even if they had some graces about them. Thus, Buler thought the Horns were already part of Nerrhavia Fallen’s powerplays. Only Yvlon Byres had made the games of the high and mighty go astray, and…he shivered as he finally came to the hallway where they were staying.
If that was how the Silver Killer played politics, he wished to know what came next—from a very safe distance. The boy rapped on the door and waited, hearing muffled, raised voices from within. When Ceria Springwalker opened the door, he bowed even as the voices became shouts of fury. He looked up, and the half-Elf blinked in the doorway.
“Oh, hey Buler. Anything wrong?”
“No, no. I must leave, Captain Ceria, and I have bade my farewells. I wished only to apologize, once, before I depart.”
“Oh? For what?”
He met her eyes as someone threw a pot in the background. The crash made him wince. Buler glanced at Ceria.
“Calling you stupid. I was a fool, and I see it now.”
She paused. Then she solemnly stuck out a hand, and they shook.
“Glad you understand. We don’t raise the bar, we lower it around here.”
Solemnly, he shook her hand again, then bowed. Ceria closed the door, but as Buler hurried, well, practically ran away from this mad team, he could still hear Colthei shouting at Yvlon.
Pisces was helping.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres could admit when mistakes were made. Unlike Pisces or Ceria, for instance. Clearly, she’d messed up.
“It was about the timing.”
“—What?”
Colth stopped ranting as she apologized. Yvlon nodded.
“I should have waited until the celebrations were done. I just thought I could expedite it if I joined the Court of Silks. That’s where you’re supposed to stand. I took the wrong cues, and if I’d waited, properly, I wouldn’t have embarrassed us in front of everyone. I’m wrong, Colth. I’m quite sorry.”
The [Ultimate Supporter] was actually at a loss for words. Genuinely. He watched Buler running for his life, and he hadn’t seen Delitandra and her people—Elena was hiccuping from laughing too hard in the corner of their guest rooms. Nawal had shut herself in her rooms and locked the doors and windows. For fear of [Assassins].
After a minute, Colth turned to Pisces and Ceria.
“When did this happen? When did she get like this? I swear, all my notes about her were that she was normal.”
Yvlon frowned, but Pisces had calmed down a bit, even if he was still white-faced.
“I think it was when she picked up her own arm and charged an Adult Creler with it. She held it together quite well afterwards, but I would say that is more of the mask which slipped.”
“And she never bothered putting it back on? Ah, right. That makes sense. I knew Deni and Eld had their moments that made them a bit cracked, but even they never did that…”
Colth calmed down. He poured himself a drink of water from a pitcher as Ceria came back and sat down.
“I think it’s great Yvlon’s apologizing. But you can see she doesn’t even really know why. My theory is the Adult Creler blew part of her brain out and we didn’t realize it was replaced by metal as well as her arms.”
Yvlon swiped at Ceria.
“I was doing what Berr would have done! I think.”
“You were copying—oh, this makes so much more sense. He probably would be laughing his tail off if he could see that. Yvlon, when we arranged for Berr to help you master your anger, you were supposed to learn fighting and emotional control from him. Nothing else. He’s a [Barbarian].”
“So? Don’t be rude, Colthei. He’s over Level 50; he’s figured out more of life than you.”
“R—it’s in his class, you iron-headed idiot! You would be dead if Queen Yisame didn’t seem to like you! I’ve never seen an adventurer with less tact, and I grew up around Named-ranks! How is someone who was raised to be a [Lady] this bad at reading a room? I would rather eat a handful of tacks than live for another second in that room with you walking through everything like a loon—and then you closed your eyes.”
Colth pointed at Yvlon, face purpling, and whirled to Pisces.
“She’s insane.”
The [Necromancer] was steepling his fingers together and giving Yvlon a sympathetic expression. He smiled.
“Yes, but she has done so well. It’s our fault for not noticing, Colth. Ylawes is her brother.”
“Ooh, that’s true. This is on us.”
Ceria nodded as she snacked on some grapes they’d left in a huge pile of fruits for the Horns. Colth opened his mouth. Closed it.
“You know what? That’s a very valid point. Having met the Silver Swords—Yvlon, you do understand why you silenced the entire Court of Silks, right?”
She nodded now the shouting had stopped.
“I do. But my reasoning was that I was getting overwhelmed, and I didn’t realize you were intimidated, Colth. It really did help.”
“Right, yes. I imagine it did. And it wasn’t the kind of thing any normal person would think of. It looked to them as if you were bored or just….ignoring it all. You didn’t flinch when the [Bodyguard] surrounded you.”
“I thought it was some Chandrarian ritual.”
Elena choked and began cough-hiccuping again. Ceria passed her some water, and Colth turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] tapped his fingers together.
“She may, ah, also be culturally insensitive.”
Yvlon reddened.
“Well, you hear stories, Pisces! You know? [Bellydancers] or people flipping fiery swords? Swallowing them?”
“See? House Byres. Mwah. It’s like they made a work of art. You’ve gotta admire that, Colth.”
“And here I thought Yazdil created unique oddities of people.”
That was a distasteful joke, but Colth just sat, running his hands through his hair. Yvlon glanced at the door.
“I understand my mistakes. Truly, I do. Shall we get to work? I know where the Coliseum of Monarchs is.”
She stood; they had a tiny bit of light left before true nightfall. Colth snapped. He tackled her and put her in a headlock, or tried to—Ceria and Pisces leapt up.
“I’m going to kill her! I’m going to kill—”
The doors swung open, and a [Bodyguard] who’d been having a really bad day lifted his sword only to come face-to-face with Yvlon Byres and Colth, who had an arm around her neck. Yvlon blinked—he recoiled, and Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself, along with Great Sage Etrikah, stared at the Horns of Hammerad.
Elena began dying in her corner of the room. Colth let go of Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] smiled. Queen Yisame motioned her [Bodyguard] back, then swept into the room.
“Your Majesty!”
Pisces, Ceria, and Colth all bowed. Yvlon held out a hand. Colth kicked her so hard her eyes watered. She could have used [Immunity: Pain] of course, but she didn’t keep it on anymore. It was far too dangerous, in Berr’s opinion, and Yvlon agreed.
And in fairness to Colth…
Yvlon had done that one on purpose.
 
——
 
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen seemed like she was having the time of her life, but it was also undeniable that the stresses upon her had increased noticeably since Yvlon had last met the woman.
Despite her meticulous makeup and beautiful cloth, she had a few traces of strain: heavier darkening under her eyes than even makeup might warrant, a fidget at times, and just an air of pensive indecision that spoke of pressure.
However, in that context she was still the happiest woman alive. Rather like someone with a terrible ailment who’d just dug up a fortune. She wore the mosaic-veil of fabrics that shifted to hide her features and rich, royal blue robes decorated with each region of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, a map of the vast kingdom.
Great Sage Etrikah, by contrast, wore a nightgown. Rich and violet silk, but the Fox Beastkin woman was clearly ready for bed and hadn’t expected to meet the Horns today. Obviously, Yvlon’s actions had changed things.
Introductions had to be made, of course. Not by Yvlon. It was rather tedious with all the bowing and titles, and Yvlon was secretly pleased; she’d cut down on what might have been a two-hour gathering to hear Colth ranting for half that and expedited this meeting by at least a day given Yisame was not a woman you just approached.
She was more interested in how her team met Yisame and the [Queen]’s own reactions, which were less guarded in front of the Horns. She knew a lot; when she saw Ceria’s circlet, her eyes darted to Etrikah, and the [Sage] refused to shake Ceria’s hand. Yisame had to touch Ceria’s bone hand, though, which Ceria claimed was ‘ticklish’. Colth—she treated with a wary remove, almost dismissing the only actual Named-rank adventurer in favor of Pisces.
He did not present himself well. Oh, he bowed ostentatiously, pretending to be a [Courtier], but as his eyes rose, they found Yisame’s bosom was far more exposed than, say, another royal ruler’s might have been. Part of that was because of Stitch-folk’s ability to remain perfect and have no objectionable flaws in their rulers, another part just the more free approach to skin in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
He turned red and began to fumble his words as Ceria rolled her eyes, and Colth appeared ready to drown himself in the pitcher of water. But Yisame quite liked the attention. Indeed, she promptly let Pisces kiss her hand and seemed delighted by his awkwardness.
However—when Elena was introduced as the [Beautician] and follower of the Horns, Yisame’s eyes flicked once to Etrikah, and then she wore that smile Yvlon couldn’t read as she allowed the young woman to bow to her.
She knew something. But then they were sitting and conversing as the [Bodyguards] secured the room and stood outside—Yvlon saw two shadows flit to the windows and climb out of them. Counter-[Assassins]?
Tea was to be had. Etrikah provided the tea, and Colth poured for everyone; it seemed this was a private meeting since not even servants were trusted to be here. The Horns, Elena, and Nawalishifra.
The [Smith] opened her doors to see what all the commotion was about. She took one glance at Queen Yisame, prostrated herself on the floor, and then fled back into her rooms.
So, just the Horns, Elena, Etrikah, and Yisame.
“A smith of Clan Tannousin, even a former one, is a credit to your name as much as the Heromakers of Hraace. Though they did not proclaim you as a [Hero], their company speaks much to anyone of Chandrar. You come at an ill time for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and you are not well-loved by all, Horns of Hammerad.”
Yisame was far more politically adept than her demeanor let on. Naïve in some ways; she couldn’t tie a pair of shoelaces, having never had to do so in her life, but was knowledgeable in this. She also spoke, well, conspiratorially, as if they were on the same side.
Told you. Colth ignored Yvlon’s gaze as he bowed to Yisame.
“I must imagine the resentments have only doubled after our entrance to the Kingdom of Tyrant’s End, Your Majesty. We await your guidance and will, of course. For our teammates’ actions, and the inconvenience we have caused your kingdom, we can do no less.”
“Amazing, he actually sounds like he understands where he is and what’s going on. Here I was trying to find my notes on how to brew a Potion of Wisdom.”
Etrikah grunted. Yvlon recalled she had a sharp tongue. It was Queen Yisame who flicked her fingers out in an elegant motion; both Ceria and Yvlon tried to copy it surreptitiously.
“It may in fact serve all ends well that Yvlon Byres acted thusly. That I have made no secret of my favor to the Horns of Hammerad has galvanized detractors who lay much blame for the Pomle war at your feet. Much less the Oresect plague. Another, ordinary Gold-rank team would be seen to be troublesome. But the Silver Killer of Chandrar, those who act without thought and dare even the King of Destruction and might be Named-ranks, that is more excusable.”
“If you lot act in the crown’s interests. If not, we’ll have to make an example of you, however much bravado you’ve got.”
Etrikah spoke bluntly, and Colth hastened to assure Yisame they were loyal to the crown, which was utterly two-faced considering his earlier statements. Well, he would probably say that they’d promise Yisame one thing and do what was most expedient, just like with Flos Reimarch, the Quarass, the Speaker of Trees, and Mighty Jaganismet.
You see, Yvlon wasn’t blind. She knew they were in political webs. She just figured that at some point you could probably cut said webs with a sharp enough sword.
It tended to work out for her. Queen Yisame was murmuring.
“—Prince Zenol of House Isphel I would also visit had you the inclination. I regard House Isphel as an ally, but not one I would be able to use…his has always been a loyalist house. Sadly, his reputation was also sullied by General Thelican’s demise. The [Prince] has taken to the front, fighting the King of Destruction’s armies to prove House Isphel’s loyalty and valor.”
“Dead gods. How has he survived?”
That alarmed Yvlon, and Etrikah spoke sharply.
“By not running into the Seven or the King of Destruction himself. He’s no fool who’d charge a chariot into the heart of an army and expect to live.”
That glare might have been meant for Yvlon, but the [Armsmistress] had to point out.
“I did survive, Great Sage Etrikah. With Mectail, Thexca, and Relladan’s help. I owe them and you.”
Etrikah glanced at the rings on Yvlon’s finger.
“You haven’t lost the rings at least. Come to my workshop later, Yvlon Byres. I wish to continue studying you. Those damn Oresect insects plague our cities. I can rust all but those made of silver or an alloy, but I would rather end the cause outright.”
Yvlon bowed her head. This was her fault, and her own good mood faded. Pisces cleared his throat.
“If we might also visit, Great Sage? A student of magic and the world such as yourself would be a delight to converse with.”
She eyed him from head to toe and snorted.
“I’d allow a chat with Ceria Springwalker and you. Though I don’t trust that circlet. I have some bones I need analyzing, and you seem competent enough with your hands.”
“I’m also a student of the arts, Great Sage.”
“Yes, yes, you as well Ultimate Supporter. Strange. I thought the Horns of Hammerad would all be like the Silver Killer. It turns out there are three magic-users of various capabilities, one diplomat, warrior, child, and kind soul combined, and an angry puddle made of silver. Oh, and some Goat Beastkin that matches no known description of her kind.”
“Each team needs one, Great Sage. An angry puddle of silver, that is.”
Well, they were having a wonderful time insulting her. Yvlon folded her arms as Etrikah chuckled as Yisame clapped her hands over her mouth, scandalized. Yvlon jerked her head towards Elena.
“Elena also does makeup and appearance wonderfully. Maybe you could teach her some ungents or whatnot?”
“Perhaps. How good are you, girl?”
“Level 36, Great Sage. Nothing special, but I could offer you a light treatment with my Skills.”
“Bah, what a polite young woman. What are you doing in this lot’s company? If you want a job as an assistant, you might be bright enough. Yes, you, but not all of you together! One or two at most!”
Etrikah eyed Elena, and Yisame clapped her hand together.
“Level 36? At your age? That is so incredibly quick—!”
Hm. Yvlon tilted her head. She was not that much older than Elena. Nor was Pisces. She saw Ceria continue smiling, but felt a sudden chill on her left buttcheek that was not a figment of her imagination. Colth brushed at his hair, grinning, and Pisces rubbed at his ass.
“Oh, so you know about Earthers. Elena’s from Wistram, but she’s in our company until we can get her to her people.”
The Horns of Hammerad, Elena, Etrikah, and Yisame all turned to Yvlon as the [Armsmistress] nodded. Colth found a piece of ice and bounced it off Yvlon’s forehead. Yisame was patently shocked. Etrikah muttered to Pisces.
“One feels she’s doing this on purpose.”
Yvlon scowled at the others.
“I just don’t see why we have to dance around it. Yisame, you’re helping us. Elena’s from Earth. Flos knows. I think a lot of world leaders know or are finding out. Etrikah just tried to recruit Elena subtly, didn’t she? You can’t have her. Now we’ve said it, we can move on.”
Yisame rubbed at her brows.
“It would be pleasant to have Miss Elena speak to a few individuals I trust. We hunt for these…Earthers, but we have found few. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is simply too vast, and Humans, while notable, are in sufficient number that I fear they have blended in.”
“Or died. Chandrar is a harsh place to live if they did not appear in the cities. And in the cities, one can fall afoul to any number of problems. We’ll find them. We have a few leads already, but I would prefer someone trustworthy, knowledgeable, and preferably wise. I’ll try to charm this one, but she’s too canny if she’s slipped the Quarass and King of Destruction both.”
Elena beamed at the compliments and turned to Yisame.
“I’d love to be a credit as long as I’m here, but I do have people I must go to, Your Majesty. But may I offer all the fashions and stylings of Earth? It cannot keep up with Stitch-folk, who are frankly ludicrously beautiful and would put us all in mental wards back home—but whatever I have, I’m sure your people could improve.’
“You may. I find you delightful, Miss Elena. And I must then prevail upon you all to dine with me anon. You shall be the reckless adventurers I am taken with in truth as well as in deed.”
“Carefully.”
Etrikah interjected, and everyone eyed Yvlon again. She nodded.
“Absolutely carefully. I understand. And we won’t take your time during these wars, Yisame, I promise. Where’s Mectail now? Still in the Coliseum of Monarchs? All I need is a run to the Merchant’s Guild so I can pay him and the others back, however much’s appropriate. Then we can move to Pisces’ and Ceria’s tasks, which are harder.”
“I just want to read some books at your academy. And study a bit of magic? Who’s your highest-level [Mage], and how lewd is he?”
Ceria waved a hand, and Etrikah laughed.
“You won’t seduce the highest-level [Mage] in residence here, Ceria Springwalker. He’d only sleep with someone above Silk-caste. Anyone of flesh and blood he’d never let touch his precious cloth.”
“Ah. Damn.”
Etrikah hadn’t answered the question about the [Gladiators]. Yisame glanced at Yvlon.
“It may be more complicated than you wish, Yvlon. I have used some influence of the crown, but the Coliseum of Monarchs is its own entity. Refraining from entering or acknowledging it may serve your friends better than reckless action.”
Yvlon sat up.
“They’re in trouble? Are they under arrest? They didn’t kill anyone, just—”
Sabotaged Thelican’s charge. Colthei grunted.
“That sounds dicey. Am I to understand they’re still [Gladiators]?”
“Yes, fighting unto death—or defeat of the champion. But Champion Lenxiol is no foe like the one Yvlon defeated in the Arena of Rust. Nor does he face them. They have endured thus far; the sport of watching them suffer has long gone. So long as no one reignites that spark—”
Even more worrying. Yvlon almost got out of her chair.
“They were sentenced to be criminal [Gladiators]? Like me? And they can only get out by defeating the champion?”
She’d beaten one of them, the Champion of Rust, in the same Arena of Rust, but the head of Nerrhavia Fallen’s largest coliseum had to be far, far more dangerous. Mectail himself had beaten Yvlon when he had taken it upon himself to calm her rage. And none of her friends had ever spoken of taking the title for themselves.
“I shall apprise you of the correct methods to be undertaken. You must prevail on those who control the Coliseum of Monarchs. The [Coliseum Master] was a friend of General Thelican and part of the Court of Steel’s circle under the Minister of Defense.”
The [Queen] was speaking to Colth mostly as he took swift notes. Etrikah was nodding at the sheet of names that Pisces and Ceria had produced.
“Very good, someone can do his homework as well. I should expect nothing less from one of Larracel the Haven’s children. How is she doing…?”
They were speaking quickly and earnestly as Elena scooted over to join the conversation.
“How can I help? No one noticed me, I think. I pretty much backed out of the Court of Silks the moment the celebrations started and pretended to be like Buler. I can change my makeup—”
“You cannot fit in among Stitch-folk [Servants] as if this were another nation.”
Etrikah warned Elena, and the [Beautician] adjusted her hair.
“I’ve thought about trying to make fake stitch-marks. Let me show you—and I can play the [Servant] class. I had it once.”
“More and more interesting. Then perhaps. But this [Coliseum Master], Vornbl, is easiest to bribe or threaten if he feels his position is undermined.”
Colth nodded at Etrikah as he scribbled notes.
“I was asking Larracel if she had any contacts or favors I could take from when she visited. Unlikely, but she did come here. She’s in the New Lands, incidentally. Fighting the mana drain and salted land.”
The Fox Beastkin woman chuckled.
“Appropriate, boy. We knew of both. Nerrhavia’s Fallen lives in deserts; why would we not assume the ground was both fallow and the air poisoned? Your reputations should be your first concern as it plays into your madness.”
Ceria smiled from ear-to-ear.
“We’re already getting started. Or rather, Delitandra is. I heard the Heromakers of Hraace telling stories about us. I knew we kept them around for a reason.”
“You should involve her in your plans. I don’t know this Delitandra. But she would have instincts better than non-Chandrarians…”
Yvlon stood up and nodded at everyone. They all regarded her, and she smiled. From Yisame to Pisces, everyone here seemed to really understand the situation in Chandrar. Well, she assumed Pisces might be able to fake it, and they all had their specialities.
“You take care of that. I’m going to see them.”
She walked for the doors. Yisame’s lips moved.
“Who…?”
“The [Gladiators]. I’m just going to—”
Elena, Pisces, Colth, and Ceria jumped out of their seats and grabbed her. Yvlon tried to keep walking as Yisame leapt up.
“Yvlon, I just said it would be reckless!”
“I’m not going to do anything. I just want to see. You’re overexaggerating now, Colth. I just want to—”
They really were shouting and making a scene. So much so that one of the [Bodyguards] opened the doors to check on them.
The woman saw the Silver Killer of Izril with her entire team holding her back, smiling that eerie smile, trying to make for the doors—until Yisame ordered them shut and barred from the outside.
Of such things were the tales of Yvlon Byres made of. And that was the first day.
 
——
 
The second day began with an odd feeling in the air. Yvlon was a bit surly at breakfast. She was not stupid, and being called that by everyone present—even Elena—hurt her feelings.
Elena was allowed to leave the palace unsupervised. Colth was whispering with her and handing her things at breakfast, but Ceria had threatened to freeze Yvlon in a block of ice if she didn’t stay put.
And when Yvlon had gotten up at midnight just to use the toilet, she’d found that Ceria had frozen her door solid!
However, if Yvlon was slightly grumpy, no one else in the private royal wing of the palace was. Queen Yisame was in a most excellent mood, and whatever else she might be, she was still enough of a [Queen] that her exuberance infected everyone.
The servants moved with a quickened step and were all smiles; it was not hard to see why. Their normally mercurial [Queen] almost bounded down the stairs, and the reason for her joy?
The Horns of Hammerad. She looked like Visma if her dolls had come to life and wanted to have tea with her in person. Actually, given how murderous some of her dolls were…
She acted like a lot of people did when meeting the Players of Celum. Delighted, excited, nervous, and overflowing with questions by turns. The very first thing she did was refuse to sit at the head of the table. Instead, she had a chair moved back until she was practically shoulder-to-shoulder with Pisces.
One of her servants actually took her to task for it, murmuring something about ‘Her Majesty’s decorum’, but Yisame just looked sideways, and the [Servant] fell silent.
“If the Arbiter Queen, whom we have much respect for, can sit and speak to Pisces the Bane—or is it Scourge?—as equals, then so shall we! And I do insist on being spoken to without formality. Adventurer Pisces, I am somewhat familiar with your history, but I should be delighted to hear it from the man himself! Pray tell me, is that the very bell that so amazed the King of Reim? And your sword—it is not the one you sold in Wistram, is it? I believe that is still in the custody of some [Lord] of House Trevalier? Quite unfortunate, but if you so desired to have a new one made, there are some [Smiths] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen of sufficient acumen for a base weapon. In, say, mithril?”
Yvlon blinked over the table as Pisces hesitated and turned beet red as Yisame leaned over with a quite revealing dress for the morning and peered at the bell on his waist. Flustered, he tried to show her the sword and then froze as the [Bodyguards] rustled, but she barely noticed.
“You, uh, know about my dueling sword in Wistram, Queen Yisame?”
Even Ceria’s brows were raised, but Queen Yisame’s eyes were aglow with delight.
“Why, of course! One feels this is common information for anyone interested in your past?”
Common…? Pisces was so off-guard he stammered a few explanations about how he’d had to reforge his sword in the Trial of Shields. When Yisame heard that, she almost leapt up.
“This has not become any kind of story! You must recount it for me! I shall take—ah. [Servant], take notes!”
Yvlon got the impression the aspiring [Writer] and [Reader] would have loved to take notes herself, but Yisame contented herself with hearing the entire adventure from Pisces. And the other Horns, but she kept turning to him for clarity. She was rather…touchy. She’d place a hand on his arm, and he’d nearly jump out of his seat.
She definitely found that amusing. There was a smile on her lips, and she did it more than once. By the time Pisces got out the whole tale, though, she was fully fascinated. He excused himself from breakfast as fast as he could after that. Ceria and Colth almost ran after him, laughing, probably to tease the [Necromancer].
Yisame was caught between amusement and delight as she finally took a bite of her now-cool breakfast. She clapped her hands, and it was whisked away to be replaced by heated food. Then, and only then, did she turn.
“Ah, I must have the rest of your tale, such as your departure from the dungeon and how you came to ride across the sky of Izril—but later. I did not offend Pisces, did I, Yvlon? He seems so much meeker than the image I had of him!”
Yvlon had been eating slower than the rest of her team, trying to have some decorum, plus she’d wanted to talk to Yisame.
Now, she shrugged as she poked at some delicate pieces of a shard-like dish. It broke away and was shaped like glass, but melted on the tongue and was soft as butter when you ate it. It tasted wonderful and was some fruit product apparently—Yisame ate well.
“Pisces isn’t upset. He’ll just be embarrassed. He’s been needled by Colth all the way south for being poor with women. Uh, what did you expect of him?”
She wondered if she shouldn’t tell that to Yisame, but they had sent letters, and Yisame begged for gossip like this. This wasn’t anything personal like scars or anything, and the [Reader]-[Queen]’s face lit up even more if possible.
“Poor with women? I had this image of a surly [Necromancer] who sniffed quite a lot, but had a [Champion]’s heart. Quick of wit and sharp with his tongue, but whom I could win over, hopefully. Then…did he not sleep with Queen Jecaina? I heard rumors they were dueling by night.”
Yvlon kept her face straight.
“They were…but literally.”
“Oh. Not in any romantic sense?”
“If there was, I think Pisces blew it. You know I am not married to King Perric either, correct?”
Yisame’s good mood turned to vexation for a moment, and her lilac eyes flashed.
“I wouldn’t dream of believing that! I knew the moment I heard that little toad of a king speak that he was lying to save face. Did you really steal his crown? May I see it?”
Embarrassed, Yvlon had to recount the events from her perspective. She saw Yisame actually taking notes.
“It was just an impulse, and when Mars arrived…you’re not going to write of this, are you?”
Yisame jumped.
“Me? Of course—would it offend you if the stories were told delicately and truthfully?”
“I…I don’t think they’re worth telling, even if they are true. And not anything about Pisces’ love life! He doesn’t deserve gossip about him.”
Yisame crossed something off.
“Of course not! And I know a team makes fun of its own. Lighthearted gossip and jabs.”
She spoke without any firsthand experience of that, Yvlon could tell. The [Armsmistress]’ lips quirked. It was funny talking to someone as strange as Yisame.
“Less lighthearted in Colth’s case. I think it’s actually annoying Pisces. Even if it is sadly accurate.”
Yisame lowered her voice as servants took away some plates.
“Surely not! For a Human, he is handsome enough! And a [Duelist] with a silver bell—that is a silver bell, isn’t it? Let alone a Gold-ranked adventurer, he would not want for company any more than you, Yvlon. Unless it is a matter of taste?”
The [Armsmistress] grew uncomfortable at the line of topic she’d inadvertently entered into. She hadn’t…it wasn’t the sort of thing she’d want her parents to hear about…and after her arms—she coughed.
“Pisces? I don’t think he’s looking very hard, Queen Yisame. Queen Jecaina might have been—but he’s not one to chase, I don’t think. Certainly, he’s interested if how he stares at performers and you is any indication.”
He was a funny fellow, Pisces. She didn’t mean it when she called him a pervert, but he certainly had an appreciation for the female form she wasn’t used to in a teammate. Whenever a woman so much as bared her chest, he’d stare.
Then again, Ylawes was the only other boy that Yvlon had really known for most of her life, and the few times nudity had been present, he’d instantly looked the other way. By her metrics, Pisces was a mildly perverse man with a heart of gold.
Queen Yisame’s mouth hung slightly open until she adjusted the strings slightly, as if Yvlon had given her an unexpected revelation of her own. She coughed a few times and took a sip of purified water.
“Then…truly, given the stories about the Ice Squirrel, I thought…I would not go as far as to say that’s perverse of Necromancer Pisces. Then again, we Stitch-folk know what we shape ourselves to be. I found it quite a compliment.”
A thought struck her suddenly, and she tapped her lips as her eyes lit up.
“If he was so enamored by Queen Jecaina and, perhaps, travelweary and even injured of spirit as I believe him to be from his travails here once already, would a companion not be appropriate? For a few nights or a single one?”
Now she sounded like Colth on their way to Hraace. Yvlon shifted.
“I’m—not making that decision for Pisces. Why? I don’t think throwing a member of court into his bed would work, even if one was willing. As for a [Servant] or [Slave], that would not do.”
“Of course not them! Not for him! How would he feel about spending the night with a [Queen], Yvlon?”
Yisame drew herself up, and Yvlon stared out one window.
“It’s a long way from Jecrass to h—”
She stopped cold and stared at Yisame. The Stitch-woman was preening in the light.
“I—ah—there’s no need to do that, Queen Yisame. Certainly not in the name of helping Pisces.”
“Helping? I would consider it a fine, memorable night regardless of what occurred. I am taken with the idea, so why not? I could well invite him tonight.”
Now, the [Queen] seemed more like a panther ready to pounce. She was in an even better mood than minutes previously and rang a bell; a [Servant] appeared, and she whispered into an ear.
“Prepare the second bedroom for—”
“Wait, Yisame. Pisces isn’t necessarily ready for—”
Yvlon stood up, alarmed. However, the [Queen] waved Yvlon’s concerns off.
“This is something I quite desire myself, Yvlon. And it is an honor few dream of, believe me.”
“Pisces is—hurt. I don’t think it’s appropriate. I’m sorry I suggested it.”
Yvlon shook her head, and Yisame gave her a rarely annoyed expression.
“Then you needn’t worry, because I have thought of it, and I have made my choice. Do not fret, Yvlon, and we needn’t speak of this again!”
“But I am fretting. I don’t want you to—bother Pisces.”
The [Servant] half-turned, amazed, and Yisame’s brows snapped together. She adjusted her clothing today and gestured at her form, each stitch sewn to perfection with cloth far more magical than Silk.
“Bother him? It will be, as you say, his choice, Adventurer Yvlon. And no finer company there is in this entire world in any continent or land. Now, I believe Great Sage Etrikah wished to speak with you?”
She whirled, sweeping away from Yvlon, and then smiling as the bliss of the day overtook her once more. The [Queen] only halted as an unfamiliar sensation placed itself around the back of her neck.
“Excuse me, Yisame. I didn’t make myself clear. I am asking you, please, to not bother Pisces. I regret ever placing him in this situation.”
Yvlon Byres’ hand was on Yisame’s neck and shoulder. The [Queen] stopped.
“Yvlon Byres, one does not touch a [Queen].”
She had [Bodyguards], of course, and had told them already, twice, not to harm or injure her friend. So maybe they’d been lax at breakfast. But right now, a Gold-rank adventurer had her hands on—
They were around Yvlon and Yisame, and the [Queen] expected the hand to let go. When, instead, the metallic grip tightened, she yelped. Yvlon dragged Yisame back, and the [Queen]’s eyes were suddenly round.
Because the face of the [Armsmistress] was no longer even that polite, unsettling smile. She wore…a frown. Her blue eyes locked with Yisame’s.
“Yisame, very respectfully, I would like you not to bother Pisces. I apologize entirely for my indiscretion. I’m not a very cautious woman. Please drop the matter for our friendship.”
“Let go of—”
One of the [Bodyguards] shut up as Yvlon’s other hand closed over their head. She wasn’t looking at the swords poking her. Her hand was getting tighter on Yisame’s shoulder.
“You’re hurting me, Yvlon.”
Yisame was shivering. Yvlon Byres dragged her forward another foot, effortlessly, until they were inches away.
“Pisces has been hurt far worse. I have your word, Yisame?”
“Let go of me. You do not touch me.”
Then the [Queen] got angry. Truly furious because she had been so lenient despite how any other monarch would rage! She hissed at Yvlon and gazed at—
The Silver Killer let go of the other [Bodyguard] and placed both hands on Yisame’s shoulders. She lifted the [Queen] up off the ground. Just an inch or two.
“Do we understand each other, Yisame? I like and respect you. But if you hurt him, even by trying to be nice, I will lose my temper. I’m afraid of losing my temper.”
The [Queen] was having trouble breathing. More and more [Bodyguards] were appearing like a stage act out the doors, but they were all staring at the very close, very high-level [Warrior] holding the [Queen] up.
“I—I understand, Yvlon. I recant my words. I won’t bother Pisces.”
Yisame got the words out, and Yvlon’s expression changed into a huge smile. She put Yisame down into a chair.
“Thank you, Yisame. I’m glad you understand. Oh no. I’ve bruised your skin.”
She glanced around, then seemed to see the army of…the army staring at her. Yisame made a few hand-signs, and they hesitated. Yvlon lifted her hands cautiously and stepped away from Yisame.
“We were just talking.”
The [Queen] waited until the [Bodyguards] had dispersed. Then she spoke.
“I quite understand, Yvlon. Why don’t you visit Sage Etrikah…?”
She waited as Yvlon turned to her, apologizing for her outburst and wavering until Yisame assured her she was fine; cloth could be replaced. Only when Yvlon was gone did Yisame get out of her chair. She practically dashed back into her royal chambers.
“Your Majesty? We might triple—quadruple the guard. And keep that one—”
“Silence! Begone!”
She shouted at the [Royal Captain of the Guard] and lay on the bed. Sprawled out until the hammering in her heart had subsided. The stare Yvlon had given her—was that the look the Adult Creler had seen before it died?
All thoughts of Pisces were utterly out of the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s head. After a moment of rolling around in bed, she rose. And then…she grabbed a quill and ink and began to write like a storm. Though her hand was shaking so badly she could barely read her own words.
 
——
 
Berr had warned Yvlon about this. She thought she had a handle on her emotions, but he’d told her that even with his training, she’d have leaks.
Slow leaks that she’d try to write off. The key was facing your emotions. So what did Yvlon feel?
Well, alarmed when Yisame had plotted to seduce Pisces. Angry…on his behalf. Worried it would hurt him, that it would be her fault.
But mostly? She was impatient to leave Chandrar, as welcoming as Yisame was. Worried about Ksmvr, so worried it hurt.
Angry that Mectail and her friends were in jeopardy because of her and that the prudent thing to do wasn’t what felt right.
Fear could be anger. Sadness could be anger. Actually, according to Berr, everything could become anger. Yvlon tried to absorb the fury in her as he’d shown her. Store it. Not compress it. But store it behind the vault she knew had to be there, to contain it.
When you need it, that is when you draw it out. When you open the door. But you must have it, more than you can dream of.
She’d let it out only once since his lessons. Not against Bograms, nor even Admiral Rosech. Just when she’d gone below one of the [Slave] ships hunting Erin and seen what they did. Yvlon had been about to unleash it on King Perric.
She feared what she’d do, and that was better than before when her [Berserker’s Rage] had overpowered her. Berr had said this was wise.
“I fear my actions when I am angry. If you do not fear your own rage, do you respect it? Or do you just not know any true fury?”
Yvlon did fear. The problem that occurred to the [Silversteel Armsmistress] was this: she might feel fear for herself.
She felt little fear for other people. Not Queen Yisame’s bodyguards. Not the dignity of the Court of Silks or the approval or anger of other people.
She had seen an Adult Creler killing good men and women. She had watched Skinner kill her team and fled it. Yvlon had stood in the Crossroads of Izril and the Bloodfields.
She had…sunk. Defeated and drowning deeper. Holding a single breath in as she knew she’d never pull herself up. Waiting to die this time, but hoping for a miracle. Knowing it was her final moment.
—Only to have those gentle hands take hers. And to feel Ksmvr putting the Ring of Waterbreathing on her finger. The one thing that could save him from death in a world of water.
He who feared drowning more than anything but losing his team. His shaking fingers.
She hadn’t even seen his face. Just felt that touch and the ring giving her life—before she was falling into the cold waters. Not knowing if he was alive or dead, or Ceria or Pisces or Colth…
Sinking past a dying Kraken and landing in the depths where the water tried to crush her. Walking for weeks in the silence, past the Witch of Webs, until she could see light.
So yes, maybe Yvlon was still a bit broken. Maybe Berr had not fixed her, just given her a new way to channel the terrible emotions in her chest.
She still had the ring she had to give Ksmvr back. A plain ring you could buy on the market. No relic.
The Ring of Waterbreathing.
It rested in the palm of her hands as she sat in Great Sage Etrikah’s workshop. The Fox Beastkin woman was inspecting Yvlon. She knew much, being Yisame’s confidant. When she did speak, it was in a low voice.
“You are no fool, Yvlon Byres. Were it not Queen Yisame—any other ruler in the world would see you dead or imprisoned for that. That you are no fool, I assume Queen Yisame said something so offensive it provoked that response. Or you would be an imbecile the likes of which I have scarcely ever met, and I knew General Thelican.”
Yvlon Byres glanced up, and she met the [Sage]’s eyes. She spoke with that…certainty in her chest.
“I know. But it was Queen Yisame.”
“And you think her patience is endless? You think she can, in this moment, when her reign is in jeopardy, afford to be humbled in any way?”
Etrikah’s voice took on heat. Yvlon replied again calmly.
“I know her a bit, Sage Etrikah, as I do you. I do not think her patience is endless. I am aware I made her angry. My cause was important. I believe it was an important lesson for her and for me. I am reflecting.”
“And if she had lost her temper?”
“It would have been an important lesson for the both of us.”
Yvlon kept her gaze fixed on Etrikah’s own, and she saw a faint ripple run up the grey fur of Etrikah’s body. It was the [Sage] who averted her gaze.
“Perhaps it would have, then. I would say you are too young, too inexperienced to speak thusly. Wisdom is knowing when you are wrong.”
“I’m often wrong.”
Yvlon volunteered. Etrikah snorted as she eyed the two rings that Yvlon had taken off her hand. She saw Yvlon putting the Ring of Waterbreathing back in her bag of holding. Not her hand; it caused magical interference, but more importantly, it could be damaged or interfere with Yvlon’s shifting hands. The two Relic-class rings were worth the risk.
“Enough. You and Yisame will make your choices without me speaking needless words. At least it was in private, if that word has any meaning in the palace. To business. I have no doubt I will exchange magical secrets and cunning knowledge with your teammates and that girl. She is a flatterer. You need one like that, but what does the swinging mace of House Byres’ tact have to report? Have you learned more of these rings?”
She was referring to the rings that she had once helped Yvlon appraise. The very ones that Yvlon had, ah, smuggled with her along with the scrolls in a very painful—and gross—way. Yvlon still remembered having to pass them out the hard way after swallowing them.
Still, the effort had been worth it. One of the two rings was scaled, like that of a Wyvern or Drake’s scales, and crowned with a little scale-shield at the tip. The other? It was a strange, multi-colored stone like some precious jade, but the ring changed forms around the edges.
First tiny, sharp, quill-like edges, then what might have been the rushing of waves or perhaps feathers? Before becoming scales or lines upon the earth and then other features.
Both were so finely detailed and made of magical materials that at a glance Yvlon would have picked them out of false imitations. Etrikah had been the one who had told Yvlon they were unlikely to be cursed or dangerous.
Etrikah hadn’t worn them, since the [Sage] could be wrong, but Yvlon had taken them on her adventures and used them, however sparingly. Yvlon raised her brows.
“Not that much. You were correct, Sage Etrikah. The Ring of Barriers has saved my life more than once. From the Crossroads of Izril to the Battle at Sea. I imagine I would have been crushed to death had it not activated in the deep sea. A powerful artifact. Especially for someone like me. Do you want to know about the Crossroads of Izril? I cannot give you the Passphrase so easily, but I can describe what I saw.”
Etrikah glanced up at Yvlon.
“Adventurer, sometimes I enjoy the interplay of words and meaning instead of having everything spelled out in front of me. And the other ring?”
Yvlon shrugged.
“It works well enough to supplement my healing potions. I wrote to Yisame about it, didn’t I? I used it to survive trapped corridors in the maze I was stuck in.”
The second ring had an effect she had uncovered that ran contrary to Etrikah’s assumptions. It was no attack-spell, but rather, a Ring of Healing. Possibly a Ring of Minor Healing; if Yvlon concentrated, it would close a gash or make bruises vanish. It didn’t work like a Healing Potion, and it was a bit disconcerting how it activated, but…that was old power. Yvlon didn’t advertise she had it, and so far, her team had relied on healing potions and not gotten hurt that bad; in these times, it would be an invaluable ring.
As was a Ring of Barriers that could literally absorb a deathblow before she took damage. These two rings really made Yvlon feel like a Gold-rank adventurer or better; they were perfect items for a [Warrior] like her.
Etrikah raised her brows.
“I have indeed read Yisame’s letters once her squealing like a Goldbelly Pig ceased. That was not my question. My question was whether you found the actual powers of the rings out and had not written to Yisame of them.”
“Excuse me? What powers?”
The Great Sage opened her mouth, saw Yvlon’s brows crossed in genuine puzzlement, and lifted one ring up to the magnifying glass she was using.
“Correct me if I am wrong, Yvlon Byres, but these are no mere rings looted from the armory, but the rings carried by the adventurers who slew the Putrid One.”
“That’s correct. The scrolls came from the table, but I found an adventurer wearing both these rings.”
Etrikah nodded.
“Then, the adventurers who slew a [Necromancer] who could animate over two dozen giant-class undead, a [Sword Legend], and an undying hulking beast and had Scrolls of Greater Teleportation—Named-Rank adventurers of that era—used a Ring of Barriers and a Ring of Minor Healing as their personal equipment?”
The second ring bounced off Yvlon’s head. She was getting annoyed by people doing that, but she felt Etrikah had raised solid points. She picked the ring up and carefully put it back on her finger.
“Well, I admit, I haven’t been experimenting. How would I uncover their true power?”
“A passphrase or the right conditions. Much like the Heartflame Breastplate, Relics are puzzles. It amazes me you don’t question them.”
Etrikah rubbed at her forehead, and Yvlon opened her mouth, then nodded silently.
“So…testing?”
“Yes. Stand over there, please. Let me activate a dozen barrier spells. I prefer not to die.”
“What about me?”
“As I believe you indicated to Queen Yisame and all her [Bodyguards]…you’ll live.”
 
——
 
They didn’t figure out either ring’s effects after a mere two hours of testing, but Yvlon had been put back onto this potential opportunity, so she thanked Etrikah for the help as Elena came by for her eleven o’clock.
“Hey, Yvlon, what’re you doing?”
“Going out into the city. Not to the Coliseum of Monarchs.”
At least not right away. Elena opened her mouth to object and then hesitated.
“You know what? Peachy! Great! One thing, can you hold me like you held Queen Yisame at breakfast?”
Yvlon hesitated. Then she awkwardly did as Elena asked, adjusting her hands until she had the grip right. Elena glanced down.
“And you held her up off the ground?”
“I…might have not been tactful.”
“Oh, no, it’s fine. You didn’t murder the [Bodyguards], so I guess it worked out. Plus, you either scared her so bad she’s going to never get close to you again or she was into it. Because, frankly, the only reason I’m not in prison and you’re not hanging up with me are those two things.”
“Into what?”
Elena opened her mouth. She stared at Yvlon, then spun.
“Etrikah! I have a headache!”
“I have tea. Make the Silver Killer leave, please.”
The door closed. Yvlon regarded it and after a moment drew her metal foot back, thinking to give it one good kick out of pique. She saw a [Servant] eying her in the hallway. Yvlon lowered her foot, gave them a thumbs-up and a smile, and hurried off.
 
——
 
Yvlon could be a reasonable person. A normal person. She…
…Was having real problems walking down a street. Half the people were begging for her autograph, shouting, ‘Silver Killer’, and asking her to introduce herself.
The other half took one look at Yvlon and ran, even [Shopkeepers], packing up shop like she was about to turn into a slavering monster.
She’d forgotten she was a famous adventurer. Yvlon Byres did her best, smiling, autographing a few things clumsily, then lost patience. She picked up a few people and put them down out of the way and then realized that was just encouraging them.
Her rescuer was, sadly, Ceria. The Ice Squirrel solved the crowd around Yvlon by turning the air sub-zero in seconds. People leapt away, and she skated towards Yvlon.
“Hey, Yv, let’s go!”
They shot down the street, and even if people followed, skating on the thin ice Ceria produced was a trick you had to learn. Plus, the ice turned into water in moments.
“Did you raid a well to get this water?”
“Nope! Learned [Create Water] since I had the [Tidal Wave] spell. You’ve gotta be a jerk to these people, Yvlon. I know it goes against your Ylawes-instincts, but they’re gonna overwhelm you.”
“Don’t worry, I had tons of practice this morning.”
“What?”
“Nothing!”
It said something that when Ceria Springwalker saw Yvlon’s innocent smile, even wearing the circlet, she got a bit nervous.
“You aren’t running from the palace, are you? We’re not under arrest if we walk back in?”
“Nope! Probably not. We’ll see. So what’s good in Tyrant’s Rest?”
“Oh, tons of cool bazaar stuff. Stitch-folk are too damn beautiful, but you can see a bunch of weird streets where they’ve changed their cloth so they’re like Drakes or even Gnolls. It’s uh…it doesn’t look quite right, but it’s funny. Food—I doubt we’ll beat Yisame’s hospitality. And the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes is great! They have a branch here absolutely filled with magical spellbooks you can read if you’re rich and famous. I scribed spells for two hours and then took a break.”
“That’s a good system, having so many spellbooks for anyone who can learn them. Why doesn’t Wistram do that?”
“Because we’re awful. Plus, [Thieves] apparently are horrendous; those were mostly Tier 1-4 spells. I need to get to the main branch to find what I want. Or broker peace with Flos, but that feels unlikely.”
Ceria adjusted her circlet, and Yvlon remembered she had been given a lead on finding more about the circlet if she helped the Treespeaker.
“You’re looking for information on the circlet…?”
Ceria eyed Yvlon cautiously and shrugged.
“It’s a famous library. Anything of what it does or its effects would be good to know, right?”
“Of course.”
Yvlon kept her face straight, and the two glanced at each other, but they were aligned on this. After a moment, Yvlon cleared her throat.
“Well, I was thinking of visiting the Coliseum of Monarchs covertly. Want to tag along?”
“I mean…given that you can’t stop causing problems here, sure? I’d better at least be there to bail you out. You okay, Yvlon? You mad about the [Slavers]?”
They were walking now. Still attracting stares, but the crowd had not re-gathered. Yvlon frowned.
“The what? Oh, no. I’m just trying to make things happen. We’re on a time limit, remember? We all agreed. Plus, I know Yisame. I did survive here before. They think I’m the Silver Killer. They named me. I’m just answering their expectations.”
The half-Elf thoughtfully opened her mouth, then scratched at her head. She patted Yvlon on the shoulder.
“You know what? I respect it. We got out of Medain, and I was right with you. I was actually upset Mars stopped us. We’ve gotta level—so long as you’re calculating the odds, go for it. Take it to Yisame next time she gives us lip.”
“Done.”
“Hah! Good on—oh, tree rot. What did you do?”
Yvlon was spared having the same conversation a third time by a sudden advent of, if not normality, than mundanity. Because a group of thirteen ran at the two Gold-rank adventurers.
Ceria whirled her wand up, and Yvlon turned her arm into a sword. The thirteen Stitch-folk, mostly young, raised their hands and halted.
“Street Runners! Don’t kill us, please, Horns of Hammerad!”
“Oh. Well—how do I know you’re not [Assassins]?”
Yvlon had already lowered her hands, but Ceria snapped her wand up and played into the moment. They almost chucked their Runner’s Seals at her. It was funny they were still more scared of Yvlon as Ceria lowered the wand and let them approach.
“Delivery for us? We’ve got no Runner’s Seals. Darn, we should buy some custom ones, Yvlon.”
“Those take time to make, and we’re not here long. Who’s it from? The Wandering Inn?”
No, they’d just use the [World’s Eye Theatre], right? Ceria and Yvlon were interested—and then the Street Runners opened their bags of holding and began dumping letters on the ground.
As in, the first pile was up to Yvlon’s knees, and it was from one bag of holding. And they kept coming! Ceria’s mouth opened, and Yvlon recoiled as a veritable mountain of letters and packages piled up.
“Dead gods, what—”
“Letters for you, oh mighty Horns of Hammerad!”
A pleased-looking woman strode out from behind the Street Runners. She was fit and tall, the Runner’s Guild [Guildmistress]. She offered the two Gold-ranks a little bow.
“That you had not been in a city capable of receiving the mail, and travelling so often, it is small wonder you had not experienced this before. This is all that we have addressed to you, and many, many more letters in Izril await you there. Your careers have kept you rising too fast, for the Runner’s Guild has never had time to offer you its services! Namely, sorting this…mess.”
She flicked her hands as the Street Runner stood there, shifting from foot to foot as the letters rustled in the wind. Yvlon stretched out her arm to grab one that nearly flew away; the Street Runner nearest to it squeaked and covered his head as if afraid her arm would lacerate him.
Even the Guildmistress took a step back at that, but she smiled, though she’d gone pale for a moment.
“Ah, and how easy it is to miss a letter! Gather this up, you all. This is but half the letters addressed to you.”
“Half?”
Ceria and Yvlon began, but the [Cryomancer] held up a hand. She closed her eyes, and her features composed to calmness eerily fast.
“No, wait, we should have anticipated this, Yvlon. Of course it’s mostly spam. Requests for aid, marriage proposals—the Runner’s Guild would take a cut from us monthly and sort our mail. The Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt paid for it, and they weren’t even that famous, remember?”
Now that Yvlon remembered it, she did recall the Runner’s Guild handling messages a bit differently when Jelaqua or Halrac went to pick them up. She supposed the Horns’ relatively fast rise—plus the fact that their reputation had really only increased notably after the Village of the Dead and Chandrar—had kept them from this moment.
“If it’s a Courier-message, I bet it’s not in this stuff.”
Ceria kicked the pile of letters the Runner’s Guild was collecting. The Guildmistress smiled.
“Then, if you will follow me to the Runner’s Guild, it will be the work of a moment to set up the system.”
And a small fee they could eminently afford. Ceria and Yvlon glanced at each other. Both nodded to the other. Ceria spun and beamed at the Guildmistress.
“No need! Run them to the palace, and we’ll open them there, there’s a good woman. Here. For your trouble.”
She handed the Guildmistress a copper coin. The Stitch-woman blinked.
“But the imposition, not to mention the effort—”
Yvlon was nodding.
“We’ll sort through them then see if we want to opt into the service. Thank you. I like reading.”
Both she and Ceria had had the exact same thought.
Like Rhir’s Hells we’re getting strongarmed into giving out money.
They marched back to the palace as the [Guildmistress] protested. In that way, Yvlon and Ceria did get along quite well at times.
 
——
 
Yvlon did tip the Street Runners well, but by the time Pisces and Colth came back from their own explorations of the city, the two were still sorting through the mail addressed to them.
Yvlon was slightly regretting her choices, but the sight of Pisces’ face and Colth’s exasperated sigh was worth it. The [Supporter] threw himself into a chair.
“I know what you’re doing. Believe me, I did it too, but this gets real old fast.”
Ceria grinned as she fanned out the letters in her hands like a deck of cards.
“Well, let us soak up the fame. Pisces, you have to read these letters. Some are hilarious. Others? Highly tragic appeals.”
Pisces sat down in a chair and stared at the letters, then took one Ceria handed him. He rubbed at his nose.
“We are famous then?”
Yvlon felt that strange, bubbly sensation in her chest at so many letters. It was indulging fame, and Colth might have been used to it, but it was a treat for the Horns and ample distraction. Despite his attempts at world-weariness, soon Colth was opening letters and gifts.
It was a fun team-exercise, and Elena came racing by to join in.
“Etrikah’s tons of fun, and she gave me lots of ideas and tried to recruit me three times. Anyways, what’s this?”
Ceria had a bottle in one hand and was reading the accompanying letter.
“Looks like a love potion. Gross, I think I can see the guy’s hair floating in it. It says it’s a custom-made healing potion, but yuck. Colth?”
He took one look at it and tossed it into a pile.
“Yep. You can see the hexes on some letters. Hex, hex, oh, tracking spell! Nice, it’s made to stick to you. Normally, the Runner’s Guild doesn’t even accept this kind of stuff, but the [Guildmistress] was trying to be cute, I bet. Annoyed you?”
“Yep!”
Most of the letters were indeed trash. What weren’t appeals to go on a treasure hunt (while giving a portion of the proceeds to the person who’d had the ‘idea’ for it) or slay a monster on the cheap were offers to be personal bodyguards, invitations to meet romantically, or, as Ceria said, heartwrenching appeals from people who couldn’t afford to pay regular prices.
Well, the best letters were the fanmail. Though it made Yvlon uncomfortable after the third one to realize…people genuinely looked up to her.
 
Dear Adventurer Yvlon, I was inspired by you to start training with a sword myself. I know I might never become an adventurer, let alone a Gold-rank one such as you, but I lost my hand when I was a girl, and I thought it made me both useless and incapable of doing anything well. To see your arms and know your story…
 
Yvlon saved that letter, feeling she should write back—but she didn’t know what to say. How did she say how much of a fluke it was that she’d gotten her class? Or how close she’d come to losing her arms? Could a [Necromancer] like Pisces help…?
“They admire too much about us that’s wrong.”
Ceria herself seemed to lose interest in the fanmail and tossed a few letters aside. She put her feet up on the desk, and Colth gave her that twisted smile he reserved for friends.
“Hard to read even with your Circlet of I’m Above This All?”
“Shut it, Colth. Pisces has the actually nice letters. See?”
“Hey!”
Everyone began reading the Pisces-letters, and they were indeed the best. Probably because while some were tragic or wrong, they were, well…
From [Necromancers]. Or people who aspired to be like Pisces, renegades. Yvlon touched her heart as she read one letter.
“Pisces, this is a young [Goth]-[Lady] from the north who never felt like she was a proper [Lady]. You inspired her. Somehow.”
“And here’s a [Necromancer] who wants to be just like you! Aww, that’s sw—wait a second, is he digging up graves? Um, good job.”
Ceria and Yvlon patted Pisces on the shoulder as he turned red; Colth ruffled his hair. Elena hid a smile as Pisces swatted at them and turned to her.
“Er, as you can see, Elena, we aren’t always the most decorous adventurers. Are you regretting your choice so far?”
“I’m having a blast. You guys are real. I mean, really…well, you’re not stuck-up celebrities yet. Please, keep it that way. Yvlon’s the realest of all. Actually, too real. She nearly punched out Yisame after breakfast.”
Colth and Pisces turned to Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] found another letter.
“Oh, look at this. A custom dagger. Maybe I could use this? I think we do need to pay for that Runner’s Guild service after all.”
Elena nodded happily, but then flicked out a few letters from a pile she’d been sorting.
“You might as well check the letters you do have, though, Yvlon. My bet is the Runner’s Guild gets rid of letters that matter now and then, even with their sorting system. These are [Messages] from the Mage’s Guild. Not many matter, but I’ve got two that maaaybe matter? Here.”
To Yvlon’s surprise, she found that Elena had indeed found a [Message] of actual substance. It was from none other than Lord Yitton Byres of House Byres!
“Father! Thank you, Elena! I wonder what…”
She began reading, wondering if it was about Ylawes or the fire from the north. He’d asked her for more gold, but she hadn’t sent any. She’d already given a sizable sum! Still, House Byres had burned…Yvlon felt guilty about it, remembering how much she h—
Any guilt or homesickness Yvlon felt drained out of her in seconds as she read. Ceria took another letter from Elena, read the name on the front, and froze up. Slowly, she cracked the seal and read a few lines. Her face went still. Cold frost formed over the paper she was holding.
“Well, it looks real, but that’s spam. Thanks, Elena. Yv? You look like you want to murder Yisame twice.”
She ripped up her letter without a word. Yvlon lowered hers and realized her fingers were scrunching the parchment a bit. She felt the anger surge…and let it go.
“That’s a joke about Yisame, right? What does the letter say, Yvlon?”
Pisces murmured. She passed it to him, and he read.
“It’s quite lovely. ‘Dear Daughter…worried for your condition, oh no, they didn’t know you were alive for…actions against Terandrian nations may jeopardize your reputation in Izril, but I am assured you acted honorably in the situation…’ er, less salutary, but—oh.”
Yvlon nodded. Pisces hesitated.
“Er, can I read aloud—?”
“Go ahead.”
She stared as Pisces read out the actual request. Colth was already wincing before Pisces began.
“‘…in light of House Byres’ continued financial troubles which you have not involved yourself with, I am given to understand you will be hosted in Nerrhavia’s Fallen as friends of the local monarch. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is a nation of wealth and numerous armies in a state of war, I am given to understand. It would benefit House Byres greatly if you were to advertise our Silversteel armaments, which have been bought and used the breadth of Izril of late. A scrying orb or Courier to deliver a sample could be arranged if—’. Oh. I, ah, we could do that, Yvlon. I could probably use a sword to—”
“Why would we?”
She didn’t look at him or at anything. She was trying to picture her father making that many arms deals. House Byres normally just sold its silver; the Silversteel armaments? Those were old stories of their smithing acumen. Ylawes had his plate armor and weapons, but those were refurbished family heirlooms, just like the armor she’d had.
Could we even make Silversteel of a quality I’d recommend to Yisame’s…
The first part stung. But the rest just made her tired. She knew House Byres needed coin. But she’d already given more money than she’d ever made as a Silver-rank adventurer! It was her coin, wasn’t it? Ylawes had said he’d asked Ysara for money too. Why would Ysara give money to House Byres?
Yvlon needed the coin herself, and surely she wasn’t to support all of House Byres’ ventures, was she? She’d paid to help reconstruct their home. Her father had written about some conflict with the Unseen Empire. Weren’t they friends? Then again, it wouldn’t be that hard…
Colth took the letter from Pisces. Instead of reading it, he crumpled it up and tossed it into the junk pile. When Yvlon started, he shrugged.
“Welcome to high-level adventuring. Everyone you know and love suddenly remembers you’re worth coin or influence. You can do it if you want. It won’t make you feel better unless he really needs the benefit. And he’ll ask again.”
“…I’ll think on it.”
To distract herself, Yvlon turned to Ceria. The half-Elf had gone back to reading as well.
“Ceria? What was your letter?”
The half-Elf smiled.
“Get this. This is from Erin. ‘Dear Horns, I’m trapped in Baleros! I need your help to hire [Bodyguards]—’.”
She cackled, and Pisces, who’d sat up in alarm, rolled his eyes. Yvlon frowned.
“I mean, what got you?”
“Oh, that. It’s nothing as painful as yours, Yvlon—don’t you like your parents? I just thought, ‘wow, they’re good’. Someone found a name related to my past.”
Yvlon hesitated.
“I—you met my parents. They were cordial to everyone, even Pisces. I just don’t feel like I should be spending my share of the gold on home. I was asked for a lot and I gave my father a sizable amount already. I owe them…something more, I suppose. I’ll go to the Merchant’s Guild and send money tonight. Just not whatever my father wants.”
Talking to Ysara made home feel different. That letter didn’t help. Ceria nodded.
“Well, mine’s just—a name.”
“Your mother? I swear I saw my mother in one of those letters. Though my father would never send me anything.”
Pisces scowled, and Ceria shook her head.
“Nah, cleverer. It was just some half-Elf in the Village of the Spring who knew my grandmother. That’s pretty good investigation work, you know? The Village of the Spring is hard to get into; there’s a town, but you can’t just waltz in. Still, what’s a few hours of work asking questions and figuring out who might be alive if it means I send you a thousand gold coins?”
Everyone nodded. Yvlon glanced at the pieces.
“Could it have been them, though? Maybe they heard about you—”
Ceria laughed, and there was a sharp edge to her voice suddenly.
“From the Village of the Spring? C’mon, Yvlon. They probably think I’m still in the forest! Decades pass like months for them! And I’m not even convinced this particular half-Elf is even alive. I haven’t seen her since I was a girl. She never checked on me or my grandmother once. If she’s even alive, she’d never send me a letter. Her name’s Tserre and…”
The [Cryomancer]’s face twisted, then she cooled down, freezing herself. She shrugged.
“It was a good damn letter too. They said it was on behalf of Tserre and the King of Myths.”
“I forget you were a member of Erribathe. The Kingdom of Myths itself. That has no small prestige.”
Pisces muttered. Ceria shot back.
“And I forgot you were part of Ailendamus.”
She hesitated as he appeared hurt.
“Sorry, Pisces. I just don’t trade on home, you know?”
“There’s no chance it was from her?”
Elena was searching for the scraps. Ceria turned.
“Nope. Don’t even bother. She and my grandmother were friends, but Leila just said she was a grumpy old woman she partnered with. She was supposed to teach me magic, but she never comes out of her hut. She’s one of the real half-Elves. She might be over a thousand years old, who knows? C’mon, I’m tired of this. Let’s go.”
She leapt up and clapped her hands.
“What say you we all go to the Coliseum of Monarchs and see what the problem is? And before you shout, Colth, in disguise. Elena? You keep saying how useful you are. Wanna prove it?”
Elena perked up as Yvlon brushed aside her own troubling letter. She saw Elena whip out a makeup kit and protested.
“But Ceria, we’re still four people leaving the palace. Even if we use Elena, any idiot with eyes will see four Humans and a half-Elf in a mostly Stitch-folk crowd—”
 
——
 
“This area is for Silk only, hempsack. Lesser castes there.”
The backhanded slap Yvlon received made her sort of angry, but the speaker wasn’t that strong. Mostly, she was impressed as she backed out of the section of glaring Silk Stitch-folk. She found Colth waving at her and Ceria, holding back Pisces from coming after her. Yvlon rubbed at her cheeks.
“Wow. The disguises really work, Elena. It didn’t even come off.”
“Are you okay, Yvlon?”
“Hm? Oh, yes. I barely felt it.”
Indeed, the Silk Stitch-man was wringing his hand out and cursing the ‘hemp’, though Yvlon was actually more of a Cotton Stitch-woman. The stitchmarks on her neck, around her ears, and on the conspicuous parts of her body proved it.
She alone had a jacket because her arms didn’t take the makeup well, but she was amazed every time she glanced at Pisces to see a bronze-skinned Stitch-man blinking at her with a rounded nose instead of pointed.
Colth was a more burly Stitch-man with curled locks; the [Supporter] used his Skills to combo off of Elena’s, but even without that, she’d transformed Yvlon and Ceria into convincing Stitch-women.
She couldn’t change things like Yvlon’s arms or Ceria’s ears, because disguise weren’t Elena’s forte, but she’d just leaned into their attributes.
Ceria had massive ears that were shaped like a Fox’s. They waggled every now and then, and odd as it appeared, it was in the ‘Alterkind’ trend where Stitch-folk gave themselves non-Human features. Ceria winked at Yvlon.
“Froze that piece of floor over there for you. Hope he breaks both legs.”
Yvlon sighed at the crash and scream. But she smiled at Elena as they filed into the Coliseum of Monarchs’ seats.
“Amazing work, Elena. This is invaluable.”
She wondered why the [Beautician] didn’t look entirely happy. Elena had given herself stitches and not much else, but she shook her head.
“Thanks, Yvlon. I’m glad it’s convincing. It’s just…well, I didn’t think making convincing blackface was something I’d be using my talents for.”
“Whatface?”
Elena had to launch into an explanation about racial dynamics in her Human-only world as Pisces sneezed again; his fake nose was tickling his real one. No one paid them any mind.
They were in.
The Coliseum of Monarchs was strange to Yvlon. Because, of course, she’d never really seen it from the spectator’s point of view. Certainly, the round walls were iconic to her understanding of such arenas; a massive circle filled with an interior amphitheatre from which you could watch the fighting in the cleared space in the center.
However, that was just the basic shape, which was apparently similar to Elena’s world too. She pointed out the differences in a low monotone to the Horns.
“I’ve seen the Roman Colosseum, but this is bigger! I guess it makes sense; you have so many Skills and various types of monsters, you need more space to run around in. Plus…[Geomancy] has got to make things easier.”
“What’s the coliseum called?”
“Just…the Colosseum.”
“Oh, they only had one? And it’s not even that big?”
“No magic, Ceria. Or Skills.”
“Right. Slightly more impressive. What’re the differences?”
Well, according to Elena, it was the walkways and staircases leading upwards to the higher seating. There were hundreds of entrances into the Coliseum of Monarchs, such that you could access your section without waiting in a line. Similarly, due to the increased size, and the dangers of the gladiatorial bouts, the Coliseum of Monarchs had a feature Yvlon hadn’t seen in, say, the Arena of Rust.
Not only was the fighting located a dozen feet below even the closest audience stands, which were built over the sleeping quarters, training area, and other amenities of the Coliseum of Monarchs that Yvlon remembered, but there were magical forcefields that ringed the entire arena. Ceria pointed them out to everyone.
“Powerful barrier spells. I’m not sure what tier exactly since they’re overlapped, but it looks good. Like some of the old Wistram magic. Must be from when it was first made.”
Unless anything hit them, they were transparent, but scrying spells had been put up to give audience members another way to see the action close-up. All of this led to a much less intimate experience, but the level of combat on display made up for the removal.
Even as the Horns in disguise sat, the last bout was finishing. A pair of Manticores had been fighting a bunch of new [Gladiators]. It…hadn’t gone well for the [Gladiators].
Either they were slave-gladiators, convicted criminals like Yvlon, or they’d been willing to risk death to fight in this famous arena. The blood littering the sand was bright red, and the audience was cheering and booing—there were tens of thousands in the stands, and it wasn’t even full.
The thrum of excitement and adrenaline hit Yvlon as much as the sound, and she shifted.
Calm.
Pisces didn’t do as well with the fervor and sound. Or maybe it was the display that appalled him. Ceria was calm as could be, pointing.
“Ooh, they have vendors on the sides in shops and they go around with—popcorn? Hey, over here! I’ll have a bucket!”
Elena was pale-faced as she stared at a Manticore savaging one of the [Gladiators] trying to get away. It was Pisces who held out a robed arm to block her view.
“I’m fine. I’m—thanks.”
She tried to protest, then turned away gratefully. Colth was busy scanning the crowd.
“I don’t think we’re being watched. We slipped the minders from the palace…huh, that’s an ugly fight. Crueler than I remember too.”
He’d been to Chandrar before, so it didn’t surprise Yvlon he’d seen the Coliseum of Monarchs. Most adventurers probably went to Nerrhavia’s Fallen to earn gold. She leaned over—there was a final [Gladiator] banging on the gates leading back to the waiting areas as the Manticores ate and licked their wounds.
“I heard from Leprel and Rexel that if you’re defeated, you don’t always die. Why aren’t the gates being raised?”
Colth grinned mirthlessly.
“Bloodsport of course, Yvlon. The people want to see if the Manticores eat that poor Stitch-man. If they’re bored, the [Guards] will either goad the Manticores with a dart lanced with a frenzy-inducing drug or just let the [Gladiator] go. Each Coliseum changes depending on the time and owners. This one…you can tell the [Manager] is trying to draw people in.”
Yvlon had heard much the same from Yisame. This owner had liked General Thelican and had her [Gladiator] friends? She felt her stomach lurch, but she had to see.
“Next up should be the mass-combat. It says the Champion of Monarchs is going to fight a bunch of prisoners from Reim, Tiqr, and other nations, including the ‘traitors’. Sounds like a melee.”
Ceria had a leaflet and was paging through it. Pisces gave her a disgusted look.
“Ceria, can you take that damn…headpiece off one second? Do you have to eat?”
She took the circlet off and patiently chewed on some popcorn.
“I missed lunch, Pisces. We’ve seen worse.”
“This isn’t adventuring. This is mere sport. It’s ridiculous. It’s—”
Pisces’ voice raised a bit too loud, and Colth shushed him as a few Stitch-folk glanced at his commentary. The [Supporter] nudged Pisces.
“Save it for later. And just so you know, Pisces, this plays well in Terandria and Izril. Even before television was a thing, you could get recordings or tales of the Coliseums. That’s why we know all about it. Larra, Deni, lots of Named-ranks from Izril went here and fought in the coliseums.”
“She never mentioned that. Not that we talked much of her career.”
Yvlon murmured. Colth scratched at his chin, then flicked a dagger out to shave a stray hair.
“I think she didn’t do well here. Nor did Deni; he had a brief career, but Orchestra fights at its best in a group. It’s not that much fun to watch them blast every foe with music. As for Larra…she was a defensive specialist. Even if she won, she didn’t get the crowd pumping. Not like the Silver Killer.”
That made Yvlon flush. She was opening her mouth to tell Colth she wasn’t nearly on par with Named-ranks yet when a pair of Stitch-teens glanced over.
“Are you here to see the Silver Killer? You’re too early; she’s not fighting here yet!”
They were wearing, Yvlon saw to her astonishment, t-shirts that had names of [Gladiators] on them. One was of a familiar person—Thexca! She had a scorpion’s dagger in one hand as she posed, and the other wore a t-shirt with Yvlon on the front, screaming with her mouth open and two razor-blades for her hands.
Merchandise? Ceria began guffawing, and Pisces covered his mouth as Elena giggled. Colth just leaned over as the Stitch-people looked affronted.
“Sorry about my yarn-headed friends. They’re drunk. What do you mean we’re not seeing the Silver Killer? That’s what we’re in the city for!”
The two youngsters immediately adopted the air of knowingness as they shook their heads and began to lecture the Horns.
“Everyone knows she’ll visit the Coliseum of Monarchs, but not yet. Today’s just a warm-up for the Champion of Monarchs. I hope he doesn’t decide it’s the day to finish off the Traitorous Three.”
The girl with the Thexca t-shirt seemed genuinely worried as she peered into the arena. Yvlon leaned over.
“The Traitorous Three?”
“Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte! The ones who helped the Silver Killer, and who were arrested. They’ve been fighting here for their lives for months. Some of their friends help out, but the Champion of Monarchs is toying with them. He ripped off Mectail’s arm last week, and he barely has the spare parts to sew himself together!”
“We don’t know the Champion of Monarchs. Good, is he?”
“He’s been the Champion for almost a decade. Lenxiol the Invincible—only, he’s not really. He only comes out for challenges or big events like this. Everyone knows he’s too busy winning favors in the Court of Silks to fight all the time.”
“Hm. Sounds like he’s a bit washed up.”
Ceria muttered to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] nodded, but she was tense. Thexca was a very good [Warrior] who used poisons; she, Mectail, and Vitte had all been considered good [Gladiators], and Mectail had beaten her in a fight. If this Champion could toy with those three…but there were all kinds of ways to make gladiatorial bouts unfair. She saw the Manticores were settling down to rest, uninterested in the final [Gladiator], and the crowd’s booing only provoked a roar from one’s lion head.
It sounded like that meant the next bout would begin. Yvlon turned to the boy who had her face on the shirt.
“How do you know the Silver Killer is going to fight in the Coliseum of Monarchs?”
“And where did you get that shirt?”
Ceria added. The boy pointed and then turned to Yvlon, as if it were obvious.
“She’s the Silver Killer of the Horns of Hammerad! She needs to bathe her arms in blood once a new moon or they lose their shine. She’s the angriest, most violent member of the Horns of Hammerad—well, except Pisces the Scourge, but she wants to fight.”
Yvlon was turning red as Pisces and Colth avoided eyeing her, smiling, and Elena bit her lip. Then the boy added seriously.
“Besides, her friends are in the arena, and they’ll be killed if she doesn’t come back to fight! The Silver Killer would never abandon her comrades, would she?”
Yvlon’s colorful expression cleared. She sat back in her chair, then nodded at the Stitch-boy.
“That’s true. She wouldn’t. Do you know what happened to Vitte’s sister? Zirre? Relladen? Or Leprel or Rexel?”
“The gladiators she joined? Of course! They’re working as [Bookkeepers] and advisors to [Gladiators]. They might even be here. As for Vitte’s sister…I haven’t heard of anything. Are you a fan of the Silver Killer too?”
A crooked smile was his reply.
“Sometimes I like her. Sometimes not.”
“Oh, fairweather. Well, I was her fan since the Arena of Rust!”
More conversation was then rendered pointless because there was a roar, and Yvlon jumped as she heard the familiar voice of the [Announcer] coming from a booth overlooking the arena.
“Guests of the Coliseum of Monarchs! People of every cloth and fiber—the main event is about to begin! By the will of [Manager] Bnirm, we have a demonstration of Nerrhavia Fallen’s excellence in combat! The Champion of Monarchs himself will face captured [Soldiers] of enemy continents, including the King of Destruction’s forces—”
A boo from all present, including Ceria who got up to jeer.
“—and the Traitorous Three themselves will fight for another day! Let’s see if they survive until the Silver Killer can rescue her comrades, if she even remembers them, eh?”
“She does!”
The boy next to Yvlon got up to shout, and there were enough voices that Yvlon heard the same sentiment being expressed, but it was all…show. All theatre. Colth touched Yvlon’s arm.
“Hey. I think I found the [Manager]. See all those Silks that kicked you out of their booth? That one there. Surrounded by cooling spells.”
She saw what he meant: visible clouds were hovering over the head of one Stitch-man who seemed like a [Gladiator] himself. He was muscular, handsome, and strong-looking. She would have called him a seasoned warrior if she didn’t know Stitch-folk could change their appearances.
“He must have been a [Gladiator], but he’s more show than anything. Probably has his muscles sewn on.”
Colth muttered. Then Yvlon saw the arena floor shift—and the two Manticores leapt to their feet, fanning their scaly wings as the sand moved! Something was rising, and it was Pisces’ turn to be excited.
“Ah, this I do know about. The famous shifting floors of the Coliseum of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! It looks like they’re not filling the ground with water—see those sluice gates? They could make a naval battle if they chose to! Of all the nations I wanted to land in, Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Khelt were my top two.”
Instead, he’d gotten chains. Elena piped up happily as huge pylons of metal rose, revealing bridges and a kind of fortress with gates and walls for an army to besiege.
“They did that in Rome’s Colosseum too when it was active, apparently. If this world is at all based on mine, then that’s probably where the inspiration came from.”
One of the Stitch-teens frowned at Elena, then fiddled with their ears. Pisces just sniffed at the young woman.
“Another Earth-based assumption that assumes we did not invent and create this notion before your world or of our own volition. Why assume we copy everything, Elena?”
“Well, you guys never figured out how to do ice cream or anything more complicated than our renaissance eras. From how everyone describes the dead gods, it feels like they weren’t exactly strong in the imagination department. This feels like a pretty explicit copy.”
“C’mon, Elena. It’s a big arena for people to fight each other in. How original is that? You monkeys didn’t exactly invent fighting each other in the middle of circles.”
Ceria leaned over as she offered the popcorn frosted with some kind of sugar to the other two. Pisces took the bucket of popcorn as Elena flushed, then whispered.
“You notice the slur. I’d apologize on behalf of Ceria’s racism, but I’d never stop.”
“I don’t mind. It’s what I’d expect from her.”
They grinned as Ceria tossed popcorn kernels at them from her handful. It almost made Yvlon smile. Almost. Then she heard a scream and stood reflexively.
The [Gladiator] who’d been at the gates hadn’t been killed by the Manticores. But neither had they escaped death. A spear, hurled from within the waiting rooms, took the Stitch-man by the shoulder and flung him into the center of the new battleground. He lay, clawing at the spear which had embedded itself in the side of the wooden fortress.
“That’s some throw. That has to be the Champion of Monarchs.”
Colth commented, chewing on some popcorn. Yvlon craned her head as the crowds cheered, and a flood of people began running out of the gates below. She recognized them at once for what they were: fodder.
Much like she’d been once. [Soldiers] in battered armor or clutching poor weapons made of iron or rusted steel, shouting and making for the fortress. Some stopped, gesticulating at each other, and what might have been an officer was giving orders. Colth blew out his cheeks.
“Poor [Soldiers]. Looks like about eighty. Nerrhavia’s Fallen must have declined to ransom or sell them. Average level’s…twenty. Officer might be thirty. They don’t stand a chance.”
The [Soldiers] were fortifying the fortress as best they could, grabbing pieces of lumber to block gaps, organizing into groups and placing [Archers] higher as the crowd booed and jeered them. The barriers rippled as trash was hurled onto it, and Yvlon blinked.
Twice, an object did penetrate the forcefields and land below. Once an enchanted stone that curved and struck the officer in the helmet hard enough for him to stagger and take cover. The second—a basket filled with a potion?
“How did those get through?”
“Must be keyed for access. They came from the Silk stands. If you pay enough, you can help your favorite [Gladiator]. Or take a shot at one. You didn’t ever get that?”
“I was sort of…angry while I was there. And I didn’t stay long enough to figure out how the Coliseum of Monarchs worked.”
Colth grunted.
“Well, take notes, Yvy. I don’t think it’s a good idea for us to fight in one of these matches, but an honor-duel would take place here. And knowing our enemies…Creler eggs. Here come the regulars. They’re thirty to forty in level. Sound right?”
“Yep.”
Only about twenty [Gladiators] emerged, each from their own gate, to cheers from the audiences. One raised a trident overhead, whirling it for his fans. Yvlon recognized one of them—Romen, an [Archer] who could do a lot of trick shots. He was posing outside of his gate, blowing kisses upwards, when he jerked and dodged; a trio of arrows hit the sand, and the crowd booed in outrage.
The [Soldiers] from Reim and the enemy nations weren’t waiting to give the [Gladiators] a chance to showboat. They were already firing arrows and a few spells from above. Yvlon shook her head.
The level disparity was obvious at a moment’s glance. Romen snatched one of the arrows fired at him, placed it on his bow, and loosed; a Garuda fell from the tower, clutching at the arrow lodged through his neck. Colth winced.
“This is going to be a slaughter. Damn, they’re even keeping the Manticores.”
The two wary beasts were backed up, snarling at the [Gladiators] and [Soldiers], and it seemed like a real damn free-for-all. However, Yvlon was only waiting for three figures. When the first one exploded out of the gates, making for the fortress, she gasped.
Mectail, the Stitch-man from Pomle, looked much like she remembered. Long-legged, tough, wearing only handwraps and footwraps and eschewing armor, the [Martial Artist] dodged under several arrows and evaded a spear from one of the other [Gladiators], then took cover under a halfwall. He snatched a bow up and took aim, firing inexpertly at the other [Gladiators]. Then two other figures leapt out to join him.
Vitte and Thexca looked worse for the wear. Thexca bore more scars, and her left arm seemed slightly off as she carried her weapons, as if it had been broken and set wrong. Her and Vitte’s enchanted armor was in bad condition. Vitte’s fur was matted and unwashed, but they ran fast, joining Mectail as Vitte began shooting spells—at the other [Gladiators]. Thexca performed a few complex symbols at the officer who stared down at her before giving orders and pointing. The [Soldiers] switched off of the three ‘traitors’, and Thexca drew her daggers and made a slicing motion at the nearest [Gladiator].
Yvlon let out her breath then. Lightheaded. The Stitch-girl with Thexca’s t-shirt was screaming.
“Thexca, don’t die! Please! I bet you’d live!”
That was an insane thing to say—but it was as much encouragement as anything else. And Thexca seemed to hear because she turned to them and raised a dagger, baring her teeth.
Yvlon almost got up there and then, but Colth had a tight grip on her shoulder.
“Steady, Yvlon. Steady. They know what they’re doing. See how they instantly partnered with the [Soldiers]? They don’t have to beat the others. My guess is that this bout ends when enough people die or can’t fight. Surviving is what a [Gladiator]’s good at, and one of them is Stitch-folk. If he loses an arm or a leg, he can sew it back on.”
She nodded, but she was tense; one of the Manticores was backing up towards her friends as the [Gladiators] banged weapons on shields and shouted, trying to get it to engage the others. However, they hadn’t advanced on the [Soldiers] yet, just exchanged long-ranged fire. Why?
Well, because they were waiting for their leader to make his appearance.
She didn’t have to see his face to understand this Champion of Monarchs. Yvlon had noticed that the one gate that hadn’t yet opened was the one that the spear had come from, pinning the poor expendable [Gladiator] to the ground. The desperate Stitch-man was still trying to survive; he’d managed to wrench the bloody spear out of his arm and disengage the stitches so it fell away. He was staggering towards Nerrhavia Fallen’s forces, a sword raised, clearly trying to say, ‘I’m on your side.’
The second spear struck him in the neck and killed him fast. Yvlon saw the tip emerge out of his back, bloody, to the shouts of surprise and dismay from the crowd. Then the Champion of Monarchs appeared.
One second, the bloody spear and collapsing body were alone. Then—he was standing on top of the spear, waving at his audience. Colth’s voice was the only thing Yvlon heard over the roar of sound.
“Teleport to weapon. Nice way to dodge arrows as you’re entering. Shit. He’s Level 50+.”
She knew it too. The moment she laid eyes on Lenxiol, the Champion of Monarchs, she sensed the danger. He looked nothing like the [Manager] or what she’d expected. For one thing, he was thin. Lithe. That he was muscular was a given, but he was Pisces-like in stature and brushed at his black hair, dyed blue and green at the tips. He looked more like a flashy adventurer of Deniusth’s sort, but he couldn’t have been more than thirty-six.
Lenxiol flashed a pearly-white grin upwards, then pointed. His finger found the officer, who ducked back into cover, and the Champion of Monarchs flipped something up—threw.
A dagger. It hit one of the [Soldiers] firing arrows downwards and then zig-zagged. Two more [Archers] fell, and the rest took cover.
“Chain-attack. He’s probably a weapons master. Just hitting him is going to be nearly impossible for the [Soldiers]. He’s probably stronger than anyone else here. I wonder why he’s called the ‘Invincible’? That’s a boast. Even Mars was only known as the Illusionist when she fought here. I’m almost positive he’s a [Gladiator Champion], though he’s got to have consolidated at least once to get to that level.”
Colth, as the highest-levelled and most senior adventurer, was able to analyze how good this [Champion] was. The Horns weren’t cheering like everyone around them. Ceria squinted down at the match as it began in earnest.
“Well, this isn’t going to take long. Pisces has a bit of a point. This is all propaganda about the wars. I don’t think they’ve got more than a few of Reim’s [Soldiers], though. See that group at the gates? They look like they have Reim’s armor on. Everyone else is a different nation.”
With the Champion of Monarchs present, the [Gladiators] began to dismantle their opponents in a ruthless advance. They besieged the fortress, using their ranged Skills to pick off [Archers], then broke the chokepoints held by the grim [Soldiers] fighting for their lives.
It wasn’t a one-sided affair. Some of the [Soldiers] were high-enough level to give a fight of it, and there was no quarter for them. Two [Gladiators] tried the Reim-gate and came away bloodied to the jeers and cheers from the audience.
The spectators wanted blood, and they were willing to cheer even for the hated enemy if they surpassed expectations. Honestly, if it weren’t for the Champion of Monarchs, Yvlon might have actually put money on the [Soldiers] being able to overwhelm the [Gladiators] by sheer dint of numbers and teamwork.
But not Lenxiol. He strode up and down the ramp leading to one fortress entrance, whirling his bloody spear to block arrows. The Stitch-boy groaned.
“Ugh, he’s showing off. Just kill them already! This is why no one likes his mass bouts.”
As if he’d heard that, the Stitch-man whirled and threw his spear through the gap at the gates, impaling three of the [Soldiers]. He drew a pair of blades and ran through the gap—Pisces swallowed hard.
That group of [Soldiers] was dead in moments, but Lenxiol took that time to once again rest and wave at his audience, catching a flower thrown from the Silk stands above. He had his eyes on Mectail next. The [Martial Artist] had found Romen and was pursuing the [Archer] with kicks and punches, knocking Romen around to cheers from the audience.
“Mectail, watch out!”
Yvlon shouted—Mectail didn’t hear. But he noticed the dagger thrown at him and spun, catching it by the blade’s tip. He tossed it aside as the Stitch-folk next to the Horns cheered, and there was laughter from the stands.
Lenxiol narrowed his eyes and then flipped up that damn spear. He drew it back to throw, and Mectail tensed—the throw was fast. Yvlon didn’t know if she’d have dodged it like Mectail tried to do, but it didn’t matter; it hit a glowing shield in the air and deflected off of it.
Vitte. She was covering Mectail, and the [Martial Artist] whirled. He launched into a roundhouse kick and sent Romen, who’d been coming at him with a dagger, straight into one wall. The [Archer] dropped, unconscious, and Mectail sprinted at another [Gladiator] dueling Thexca. Lenxiol shrugged and then peered around, choosing one of his own gladiators as a target next.
He didn’t feel threatened at all. However, Yvlon read into that several things, and she turned to Colth.
“Colth, correct me if I’m wrong, but I think…well, I know Romen was knighting. He let Mectail beat him. But Lenxiol seemed like he was trying with that dagger and spear. He didn’t attack, though. I think he was wary.”
The [Supporter] nodded, eyes glittering.
“Yep. Your friends might not be treated well, but they had to have counterlevelled to have made it this far. Mectail was, what, Level 40 before all of this? That’s more than enough to do a lot of damage if Lenxiol drops his guard. The three of them can gang up and give him a run for his money. He’s not going to risk it. What he will do is wait for one of them to falter.”
So the battle was a knife’s edge for the Traitorous Three to walk. They had to both survive and watch each other’s backs in this furious melee. Yvlon’s stomach was twisting.
I’m so sorry, Mectail, Thexca. Vitte, I don’t like you as much, but you don’t deserve this.
 
——
 
The battle took about thirty minutes to conclude. On the [Soldiers]’ side, there were no real surprises. They closed ranks, retreating into the fortress until they made a last, desperate stand on the highest point with the [Gladiators] picking them off. There was only one shock; it was as the officer took a grievous stab from the trident-wielding [Gladiator].
The officer spun back, slashing the Stitch-man’s face open and reached for the potion delivered via basket. He splashed half on his wounds, then made to toss it to another wounded [Soldier]. However, the officer’s face twisted, and his plumed helmet jerked—Yvlon didn’t get it until Pisces hissed, and a boo ran through the coliseum mixed with applause from above.
“Poison.”
It was no healing potion after all! The red liquid was smoldering as the officer collapsed, the bottle spilling on the ground. The trident-wielding [Gladiator] shrugged, then bowed to the upper stands.
The lower stands were booing, deprived of the valiant last stand from the officer who’d masterminded the defense. The booing intensified as the Silk stands applauded the act of sabotage, but given the disparity in numbers, the booing easily drowned out the applause.
Which made someone upset. Yvlon heard the announcer merrily commentating.
“And that’s the [Officer] downed! The poor fool should have known better than to trust a gift from his enemies! It seems not all in the Coliseum appreciated the subtlety of Silk! I—oh, it seems there’s some censure in the stands!”
There was a scream, a plume of light—Yvlon jerked, and Elena stood upright.
“Those maniacs just hit the people below with a molotov cocktail!”
Or a potion of some kind—it was like a miniature fireball that struck the stands. Someone had tossed it from the Silk seats, and Stitch-folk were screaming, brushing the flames off their cloth, and rolling to douse the fire. It wasn’t as hot or long-lasting as real alchemical fire that Yvlon would have used, but Stitch-folk feared flames more than almost anything.
Colth’s smile never wavered, but there was a Demon in his eyes only they could see.
“Yep, that’s familiar too. Remind you of Terandria, Pisces, Ceria?”
The [Necromancer] and [Cryomancer] exchanged looks, and Pisces shook his head.
“Never that openly—”
“Eh, I’ve seen nobles do it to commonfolk, but this is a different flavor. Wow, so we might eat a bouquet of flames if we mouth off to our betters and superiors?”
The two Stitch-teens were glaring upwards and making covert gestures at the Silk stands. One turned to Ceria, visibly astonished.
“You must be from a different kingdom. Here, you’d be wise not to anger a Silk, Cotton-sister. Throwing fire only happens in the Coliseums, mostly. But they’ll have you whipped on the streets by their [Bodyguards] in a heartbeat.”
“Good to know, thanks!”
Ceria smiled brightly at the Stitch-girl. Yvlon was about to say how barbaric and horrific all this was—until she closed her mouth. She was reminded of stories her mother had told her about the Reinharts. Her mother had once told Yvlon never to insult a Reinhart, even if they deserved it. More than one lesser noble had ‘accidentally’ been hit by an enchanted carriage. It was sort of a family tradition.
The distraction was more than just an insight into Nerrhavia Fallen’s social strata. Colth cursed.
“Damn. That was the opening he needed.”
Yvlon spun, and the cheering turned into groans. Lenxiol was standing in the arena, in the shadow of the wooden fortress. He’d abandoned the siege of the [Soldiers] to leap downwards like a bolt from above. His target?
Vitte. Mectail and Thexca had stayed together, picking off rival [Gladiators], but as the [Soldiers] fought at the top of the fortress, they’d strayed a bit too far from Vitte, who had remained under cover, firing wands. The Fox Beastkin saw the [Champion] coming and tried to escape.
She leapt, using the Fox Beastkin’s gravity magic to soar upwards. Yvlon saw her rising along the edges of the magical walls of the coliseum. Vitte reached out—and a grinning Stitch-man seized her by the legs.
Lenxiol slammed Vitte into the ground, cancelling her gravity magic, then stomped on her arm as she tried to fire a wand at him. She screamed, and her other arm jerked as he stabbed it as well. The Champion of Monarchs stood with a foot on her chest as he called upwards.
“After so long of running around, I have one of the traitors! A shame—she can’t stitch up anything I cut off! Manager Bnirm, do I let this wily fox run another day or cut the chase at last?”
He pointed his blade upwards into the stands where the [Manager] rose to his feet, applauding. They were waiting for a gesture from him to indicate whether Vitte lived or died.
This Yvlon remembered too. She was on her feet with the Horns and Stitch-folk, and, below, Mectail and Thexca had halted as Lenxiol held the blade above Vitte.
“Champion, fight us, you coward! I challenge you!”
Thexca was screaming, raising her daggers, but he ignored her. The pleased Stitch-man, Bnirm, was turning to the Silkfolk around him, gesturing up and down with his thumbs. Which should I choose?
“Vitte! Don’t! Please!”
That came from nearby. Yvlon jerked and whirled as Zirre, Vitte’s sister, leapt to her feet amidst a host of Fox Beastkin and shouted upwards. She was gazing down at her sister.
 
——
 
“Fox Beastkin. Look at them, agitating for the King of Destruction and Tiqr. One wonders why they’re even allowed in the coliseum.”
Manager Bnirm was quite enjoying the attention on him. In his hand, he held his [Gladiator]’s life and death. All eyes in the Coliseum of Monarchs were on him; he was as important as Lenxiol was. Plus, the Silk-caste nobility with him were also attentive to his words. He smiled at the outraged woman behind him.
“Their coin feeds the coliseum, Marquisa. However, I do think an example could be made. We cannot let the masses think they can have their way, popular as the Traitorous Three are. A limb will do.”
Bnirm glanced downwards, dismissively, and turned to Lenxiol. He paused, lifted his hand—and pointed a finger.
 
——
 
The Champion of Monarchs blinked and shaded his eyes. He—he had no idea what that meant.
What kind of hand-gesture was…? Then he traced the line the [Manager] was pointing and saw Bnirm was gesturing across into the stands.
At a figure who’d stood and ripped the jacket off her arms. There was a gasp, and there she was. Under his foot, Vitte groaned.
“That idiot—!”
The Silver Killer.
 
——
 
As promised, as she would ever do, the Silver Killer arose in a burst of silver light. It showered down around her, like metal confetti, as she exposed her silvery arms to the audience, revealing herself in the crowd.
Her chin was shapely, her nose pert, and her mane of hair was golden like flax wheat from Izril as she posed. Her voice was magnified to be as loud as the [Announcers] as she declaimed, pointing one wrathful finger down at the Champion of Monarchs.
“Not so fast, villainous rogue! As I am pure of heart and bloody of hand, I, the Silver Killer of Izril, shall not let my friends be hurt in my name! In the name of Izril, the Five Families, and the Horns of Hammerad, I, Yvlon Byres, challenge you!”
Whereupon she threw back her head, and the cheering from the stands was only slightly diminished by the fact that all the savvy members of the audience had realized the same thing as the Champion of Monarchs himself.
Lenxiol had stiffened with genuine shock for a moment before rolling his eyes and leaning on the tip of his sword. The flashy woman posed again, letting the light play off of her incredible abdominal muscles she was showcasing to the world and the silver paint on her arms.
“—That is, I would have the courage to do so if it were not for my great friend, the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen itself! You may win today, Champion of Monarchs, but I shall return—after advising Queen Yisame to raise the taxes on all and sundry to win this war! Victory at any cost is my motto, after all!”
That prompted more confusion, but mostly boos about the ‘taxes’ part. Lenxiol just sighed.
This wasn’t the best writing he’d had to work with. Bnirm kept insisting on writing dialogue himself, and it came across too obvious. He wanted to poke at the [Queen], but one did not do that directly and live. Hence this.
This was the third time the ‘Silver Killer’ had emerged to defend her friends, and the bit was so old that booing began before the [Announcer] began to commentate over the audience.
“It seems the, uh, Silver Killer herself has leapt to the defense of her former teammates! The treacherous Mectail, the scorpion who stung the hand that fed her, Thexca, the cunning Vitte who failed to choose the right side—”
“I wasn’t even there! It was Relladen, you bastards!”
Vitte hollered up at the sky, but no one except Lenxiol could hear her. He stomped on her stomach, lightly, to make her shut up.
“You should have volunteered to fight for Nerrhavia’s Fallen like he did. You chose the wrong friends, Vitte. It’s a shame. My offer still stands.”
She bared her teeth at him, panting.
“I’ll jump into your bed with a Potion of Blast, Champion. Either stab me or cut my ears off so I don’t have to listen to that.”
She gestured at the ‘Silver Killer’. The woman was still shouting about her personal cowardice masked by bravado. Lenxiol thought about it. He glanced at Bnirm, but the [Manager] seemed to be satisfied by this charade. He’d be less happy once he could hear the booing. Lenxiol turned to engage the Silver Killer in a bit of dialogue, sighing. He activated his own speaking stone tied into the coliseum’s sound systems, then paused. He stood straighter, and then a real smile graced his handsome features.
“Why, Silver Killer. Do you think this was wise? I regret that we never clashed blades the first time you graced my home, but even Mectail was enough for you. This time, you look more the name. You’re no wiser than before though, I fear.”
He peered up into the stands, and the ‘Silver Killer’ stopped flexing her biceps and hesitated.
Now what the hell was she supposed to say to that?
 
——
 
The [Actress] playing the Silver Killer was already hot in the silver paint and costume she wore, even with her midriff bared. She had memorized a lot of lines with only fifteen minutes before the match started, and Manager Bnirm had kept sending her more he’d thought of during the matches.
Now she got the weirdest statement from the Champion of Monarchs to work with. He was talking like she was actually challenging him. She tried to think of something to say.
“Ha-ha! Ill-thought out and reckless are my middle names! Though I don’t have time to face you today, Champion, you may rest assured that when you and I meet, we’ll higpl—”
That last part was the sound of her ribs compressing and the air leaving her lungs. It was also accompanied by a real hand of metal shoving the ‘Silver Killer’. She, the [Actress], experienced a novelty.
Flight. Followed by her hitting one of the bleachers lower down, five members of the audience, bouncing off them, and further flight—until she hit some of the stairs. All of which was captured on the speaking stones, accompanied by a long, drawn-out moan that began to become a scream until someone cut the feed.
The audience froze, hands half-covering their ears. The shock, the real violence, the flying woman—that had frozen Bnirm’s self-satisfied smile. The cause of it was a Stitch-woman…with a gleaming, silver hand protruding from her own jacket.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres hadn’t even pushed the woman that hard. She stared at her hand, flexed it a few times, then glanced over her shoulder.
“Sorry, Colth. Back me up.”
“Yvlon—”
He’d tried, he really had. The evidence was the ripped cloth from her jacket still in his hands. But he was a [Supporter] for all he was higher-level than she was. She was a [Warrior], not skilled in politics or intrigue. Okay, she just didn’t care for it.
The two Stitch-teens were staring at her. Ceria was half-risen, groaning, mouthing a ‘no’ at Yvlon and knowing it was too late. Elena was crossing her arms, and Pisces? He was just staring at her. Reaching for his rapier. Yvlon Byres turned. Below her, Stitch-folk were gazing up at her, and she saw the camera and screens reflecting her.
“Is—is that the real—?”
The [Announcer] began, and Yvlon Byres crouched down. Then she leapt.
She cleared a lot more air than she expected given that she was heavier with her metal arms than she’d ever been. Her legs seemed to explode as Yvlon soared down towards the center of the Coliseum of Monarchs.
She’d miscalculated. It was a far further jump than she thought and a long way down. Probably a hundred feet. It was going to hurt like h—
The barrier. She saw it shimmering and drew back her left hand, conscious of the rings on her right hand.
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]!”
Her arm morphed, sweeping into a blade that traced a crescent through the air. A slash that met the magical barrier in a clash of ringing metal that deafened the ears, like a strange bell being struck. Then a grunt—and a faint thud as Yvlon hit the magical shields and bounced off.
Much like a bug hitting a piece of glass. She slid down the barrier, unable to get a grasp, and landed in a clatter of armor on the bleachers just above the coliseum floor. Yvlon heard shrieks from around her, gasps, and lay on her back.
Ow. Well, that was one of the dumbest things I’ve ever done.
She swore, in the ringing silence, she could hear the first person to start laughing, and it was Ceria. Yvlon Byres got up as the silence became laughter and raised a fist.
“Champion of Monarchs! I’m the one you want. Face me.”
She shouted, but she had no loudness spells to amplify her voice, and the Coliseum of Monarchs was in hilarity. Even the man himself had covered his face to hide a smile as he saluted her with a sword. He replied.
“Silver Killer, no one just leaps into a match in the Coliseum of Monarchs, though I respect the attempt! You are as wild as I remember. Oh, the bloodlust has left me. I don’t think I’ll get the crowd roaring for death now. Though your friends might not appreciate your return.”
So saying, he planted the sword with a sigh—in Vitte’s leg. Yvlon heard the faint scream, and the laughter died down. Her eyes locked on him.
“Face me, Champion.”
He bowed to her.
“And risk the wrath of the Queen? I think not, Silver Killer. Please, relax, and calm yourself. We cannot be enemies today, and I think we’ve all enjoyed the show.”
He smiled as the laughter returned. Yvlon Byres remembered Prince Zenol jumping to her defense in one of the lesser coliseums during her honor-match against Beton. He must have had a trick, or key, or they just hadn’t raised the barriers then.
The Silver Killer gazed down into the arena. She remembered Thexca, Mectail, and Relladen attacking Thelican’s [Bodyguard] to let her get to Pisces. Vitte…
Well, she mostly remembered the Fox Beastkin tricking her sister into taking her place in the coliseum once. Which had been cruel.
Even so, they had been kind to her when no one else had. Yvlon gazed down at the figures of Thexca and Mectail. She slowly drew her right hand back and concentrated. Her arm bulged, and the people around her scrambled back as Yvlon threw one punch at the barrier preventing her from going below.
It—rippled—and the laughter stopped. Like a droplet of water, the barrier wobbled from the point Yvlon had punched it, and the movement bounced across the dome-shield. Lenxiol blinked, and Yvlon Byres stared at her right fist. Then she grabbed her hand, covered it, and sank to one knee.
A grimace of pain crossed her face, and then someone shouted.
“Yvlon!”
The rest of the Horns leapt down the stairs. Colth threw what remained of Yvlon’s coat around her, and there were more gasps as they tore off their disguises. The Champion of Monarchs gave the Horns a mocking bow, and they helped Yvlon to her feet. She hesitated, but let them pull her back. They swaddled her right arm in the coat. Then, before she could object, the Horns dragged her out of the coliseum, Pisces and Colth clearing the way with their swords as they ran Yvlon back towards the palace.
 
——
 
Manager Bnirm hadn’t expected the real Silver Killer to appear. But as he watched her go, he thought it had been the best outcome for him that he could have hoped for.
Not only had she proven the three [Gladiators] mattered to her, she’d rather embarrassed herself. So much for Yisame’s beloved adventurer.
He wondered if she was bleeding. Did she have metal bones…? Well, in any case, he smiled crookedly. For a famed team, the Horns of Hammerad were rather weak in the areas that mattered. Politics in Nerrhavia’s Fallen was more than the ability to clear a dungeon. From the gaze Lenxiol gave him from the below, the [Champion] saw how openly they’d played their hand too.
It was going to be a very interesting time in the Court of Silks soon.
“Well, with this little event over and done with, I must excuse myself, friends.”
Bnirm stood, and the Silks were all over him, demanding to know if he’d arranged this, whether he’d known she was in the stands. He gave them a mysterious smile and let them think he knew more than they.
One of the lesser handlers of the coliseum, the ones who did all the actual work, hurried over to Bnirm as he gave swift orders; he needed a palanquin to the palace now to speak with his allies. He brushed the man aside twice before snapping.
“What could possibly be more important than using this windfall against my enemies?”
Against the [Queen] herself? If she truly did support the Horns and some of the rumors regarding her infatuation about the Horns were true—let alone what she allowed them to do—this was a critical weak spot in her defenses. He had the Traitorous Three; he had cards to employ in no small measure. Plus, the Silver Killer clearly had no ability to hold her temper.
“Manager, when the Silver Killer hit the protection spells on the Coliseum of Monarchs the second time—we felt the impact.”
“Not nearly hard enough to break the shields, surely?”
Bnirm stopped the man and drew them into an alcove by the entrances to hiss back. The [Magus] shook his head rapidly.
“No, Manager. But to cause a visible ripple—she hit it harder than Mars the Illusionist did when she fought Omalt the Half-Giant in her final match!”
That surprised Bnirm. He frowned, then snapped back, irritated by the seed of unease that knowledge planted.
“And injured herself! So what if she’s strong? Torreb himself couldn’t break the barriers when he threw a tantrum after losing a match! It was not even a tenth of the energy required to shatter the barrier, was it?”
That was before he’d been known as Torreb the Undefeated, but still. The [Magi] assured Bnirm there had never been a concern of the barriers falling. Even so, the Stitch-man wavered.
“It was not a tenth.”
“Then restore the energy and clear the sands! I have work to do! Important work!”
The [Manager] stormed off. The [Barrier Magi] glanced back and added under their breath.
“But it was more than a twentieth of the power required. More than a twelfth!”
He’d been a boy when Mars the Illusionist fought the half-Giant in her final match. She’d hit the walls of the arena with her best Skill, meant to end the fight and him. The [Magus] wondered just how strong the Silver Killer was. Perhaps…what Skill gave her that force?
He hoped, in the selfish way a fan of the Coliseum of Monarchs could be, that he’d get a chance to see. The Silver Killer had graced this place only a few times. What might she do if a real match featured her once more? But then, Bnirm would never risk Lenxiol, and Lenxiol would never risk Lenxiol. Even so…
The barrier was still rippling slightly.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker waited until they were out of the coliseum and running for the palace to hiss at the others.
“Don’t let anyone see her arm. Yvlon—tree rot, I thought you’d actually have a chance there.”
“Sorry.”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] was keeping her arm very still, not protesting as they ran her along. That was bad. Very bad.
Her bones are okay. Pisces mouthed uncertainly at Ceria, which just confirmed the half-Elf’s impressions. She smiled desperately as [Servants] swarmed down from the palace steps.
“Hey, we’re back! Private rooms! Outta the way. [Ice Floor]! And slide—”
Tripping up the colorful procession of servants and using [Ice Wall] to keep the swarms of people from them was easy. Ceria had no doubt Yisame would be here in moments, but she shoved Yvlon into their suite of rooms, then spoke.
“Colth, get rid of observers. Elena, only let the Heromakers in. Alright, Yvlon. Let’s see it. How much metal did you vaporize with that punch?”
Pisces drew in a breath in a hiss of understanding. It was the only thing Ceria’s mind had presented to her. A barrier spell that advanced…
Yvlon’s left arm appeared fine, but she pulled the right arm out slowly, flexing the fingers. Her hand was visibly deformed into a stump of metal; mashed flat from the impact. It looked wrong, but Ceria didn’t see that much metal missing.
“Not much. I don’t think I damaged my shoulders that badly. I was just—angry.”
“Well, you definitely bought into their plans. Now they know we’re concerned—I’m not gonna lecture you. Yisame’s going to come running. Don’t let her see your arm. Can you bulk it up?”
“Yep.”
Yvlon made her arm normal again to Ceria’s relief. If it was lighter than before—Ceria pointed at Yvlon as she strode for the door.
“You have an appointment with Nawalishifra right now. Pisces? Go [Invisible] and figure out where she is. Let her know covertly we need to get Yvlon…can she even absorb more metal?”
“Well, it’s either that or she has to eat enough. Iron, probably.”
Elena piped up, and Ceria scratched at her head. She had an image of Yvlon gnawing on a bar of iron. Well, it might work.
“Okay, do that. Hey, Yisame! So, the coliseum is tons of fun. One thing…”
She yanked the door open and was smiling as the [Queen] nearly ran at her. Inside the room, Yvlon Byres saw Pisces hesitate, eye her, and vanish. Elena guarded the door, visibly worried. After a moment, Yvlon’s fist seemed to melt a bit. It ‘spat’ a pair of rings out into the palm of her hand, and she checked them.
Undamaged. Yvlon nodded to herself and sighed as she sat back in her chair.
“That was close.”
Someone slapped the back of her head, and Yvlon jerked and whirled.
It was Elena.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres had decided she’d learned at least one important lesson after that debacle at the Coliseum of Monarchs. Which Ceria had to admit was one above par.
If there was a silver lining, it was that Yisame, the Horns, and everyone else were too worried about Yvlon’s arm to lecture her about blowing their cover.
Yvlon felt bad about that; her arm was fine. Okay, it hurt a bit, and the left one had arguably strained more with the force of the impact against the barriers. But she accepted the concern because, well, she had to.
She was thinking introspective, deep thoughts that evening when she was informed Nawalishifra had cleared a space for a private forge in the royal wing and was ready for her. Yvlon walked down the corridors, flexing her right hand open and closed.
The Champion of Monarchs is strong. Even if he was unwilling to face Mectail and Thexca and Vitte together, he still got her in a moment. And the Coliseum of Monarchs is huge. That man, Bnirm…he’s against Yisame. That’s what the body-double was about.
Would Lenxiol face me in a duel? Could I beat him? I think so. I don’t know. I can’t put my team or Yisame in further danger. So I have to have a plan. A good plan. And it’s the Coliseum of Monarchs. That [Manager] will rig everything against me if he has the chance.
I’ve got to be smart about this. Berr. What would Berr say…?
She was considering her next moves when the door opened. Nawalishifra stood in the doorway, appearing less nervous and more imposing with an apron on and her veil covered in soot.
“Eh, there you are. Took you long enough, Killer. Let’s see that arm. I told you it wasn’t even as strong as regular steel with a basic hardening enchantment. But then, maybe as well you didn’t kill someone today.”
“Hello, Nawalishifra. I didn’t kill anyone.”
Yvlon protested mildly, and Nawal dragged her into the room.
“Not for lack of trying, so I’m told. First you strangle the [Queen] at breakfast, then you try to kill the Champion of Monarchs by leaping into the arena?”
“I didn’t try to strangle Yisame.”
“Of course, of course. Me, I only know rumors. I don’t see anything. That’s how one survives in a place like this. A thousand curses on you and the Horns for dragging me here! I could be safe in Reim…well, safer. I hope a plague-ridden camel shits in your pillows each night.”
Nawal was herding Yvlon towards her forge, which she’d set up along with a lot of bars of metal. But she’d added a chair that she forced Yvlon into, almost like she was combining the art of dentistry with smithing. Yvlon felt sweat on her skin already from the heat of the forge.
“You have a colorful way of talking, Nawal. Has anyone told you that?”
“Any more than you do? Shush. Hm. Your captain, she told me your arms had lost a lot of metal. I don’t think it’s too bad.”
Ting, ting. Her hammer struck Yvlon’s right arm and then the left, and the [Armsmistress] shivered. Of all the people in the world, Nawalishifra was one of the most intimidating to Yvlon. It was her class; Yvlon felt like she was naturally disadvantaged against the girl.
Certainly, Nawal could leave visible imprints in Yvlon’s arm with the slightest touch of a hammer.
“I’m fine, really. Ceria just wants me to replace the metal or…she said something about upgrading it.”
Nawal tapped her chest.
“I suggested it the moment I saw your arms. Did I not say it when we were in camp? You could do far, far better than this. And though I am without Clan Tannousin, may the deserts swallow my traitorous kinfolk—”
She paused and swallowed hard.
“—and I am without a proper forge and setup, this is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have everything I need for simpler smithing. No Naq-Alrama steel, then.”
“Oh, that’s too bad. Magekiller arms would be an improvement.”
“Indeed, though every child would try to cut your arms off for the fortune in metal, if it could even move as an arm…you’ll have to settle for mere Adamantium. As so!”
Nawalishifra produced a small ingot of brown, heavy metal and placed it on Yvlon’s arm. Then she smacked the ingot and buried it halfway into Yvlon’s arm.
Neither woman expected that. Yvlon knew Nawalishifra could move her arms because she had some kind of [Smith] Skill. But Nawal had forgotten that Yvlon ran blood through her arms for circulation, purification, and to keep them warm.
The blow had accidentally struck an ‘artery’. The spray of blood coated Nawalishifra’s face and chest before Yvlon sealed the blood flow off. The blood dripped down the far wall in the sudden silence.
After a moment, a [Servant] opened the door with an armful of tools and magical ingots.
“Smith Nawalishifra, if you need any other tools, Great Sage Etrikah has—”
She took one look at the bloody [Smith] and [Armsmistress], dropped her supplies, and ran screaming. Yvlon wished they’d stop doing that. She was just about to make a joke about her reputation when Nawalishifra fainted backwards.
 
——
 
When she woke up in Yvlon’s arms, the [Smith] leapt up and apologized.
“It is not the sight of blood that disturbs me. Just…the memory of it. I forged a cursed blade out of blood, and I felt as though my sins…”
“I’m sorry too, Nawal. We dragged you all the way from Hraace to here, and we haven’t apologized or been that kind.”
The [Smith] wiped blood off her face and veil and shot Yvlon a sideways glance, then a small smile.
“Then we have both been jackasses braying at each other, and we can forgive and start anew, yes?”
“Absolutely. And I’ll take the blood out of my arms. Upgrade away.”
Yvlon sat back down in the chair, and Nawal rose after taking a swig of water. This time, she was far more careful and hmmed as she made Yvlon show her what was in the arms.
“Interesting. They are mostly solid, and I see how you put blood in them…but not what lies in a regular arm. Not that I am an expert. If I had to forge your arm like a [Tailor] makes a cloth arm, it would be far, far harder without the knowing. So if you, say, lost your hand…”
“It becomes a pool of silversteel metal. See?”
Yvlon cut her hand off, and Nawal jumped back, then peered at the pool of metal.
“Interesting. It’s…liquid. It should be solid.”
That was true, now that Yvlon thought about it. Her arms were room temperature, but she shrugged.
“Magical metal.”
“Have you lost any before today?”
“Now and then. Chunks of it—I somehow regrow it. I noticed I eat a bit more, and I sometimes get weird cravings. As if I were pregnant. I once found myself picking pieces of rust off a wagonwheel and eating it.”
Yvlon laughed, embarrassed, and clarified.
“Don’t worry, I washed it.”
“Er…that is very interesting. Yes, interesting is the word I shall use because I am being friendly. Well, this will be far, far less likely to chip or be destroyed.”
Nawal tapped the Adamantium ingot. It made a surprisingly deep sound, and Yvlon eyed it.
“Is that real Adamantium? Nerrhavia’s Fallen just has it lying around?”
“Psh. It is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. If they did not have some of this, it would not be Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You are lucky I can bring a forge to the temperature to melt it. Although, perhaps I did not err entirely. What if we just embedded it in your arm? Could you…take it over?”
Yvlon had a metal foot too, and that actually turned out to be the best spot to fit the ingot into, given its relative size. Nawal tapped the ingot into Yvlon’s foot like someone shoeing a horse and had just as much trouble.
“Stop wiggling, you!”
“I can’t! It tickles! I’ve never felt anything tickle like—stop, it’s not working!”
Yvlon giggled as the foreign piece of matter was swiftly ejected from her foot. Nawal scratched at her head, then shrugged.
“This makes sense. This is more of welding metal to metal. Cold welding would require forces of which I do not have on me. Hm. But the heat to melt Adamantium and your arm…if I forged the two, it might burn your entire body up. What if we tried, uh, something cooler instead?”
She grabbed a bar of mithril, which was, by temperatures, a magnitude lower than Adamantium. She still had to crank the forge so hot that even with cooling spells Yvlon flinched away from the heat of the magical blaze.
“What if it doesn’t work, Nawal?”
“That is why I will try a finger! Since you can regrow them! The work is simple, and as so—”
Nawal hammered out a tiny bit of mithril from the bar and then seized Yvlon’s arm and put it in the forge, barehanded. She was fine, but Yvlon instantly yanked it out.
“Too hot!”
She felt that! Even her metal arms reacted to the flames. Nawal shoved the veil down on her face and cursed.
“Where? Where it meets flesh?”
“Everywhere! I can tell that’s too hot for me!”
“Damn. But I need to heat your metal to bring it to temperature…hm. Hmmmm. Let me think of my teachings. What about…aha!”
The first thing Nawal tried was an Amulet of Flame Resistance, a staple of [Smiths]. But that just meant that it was then impossible to get Yvlon’s arm up to forging temperature. Exasperated, Nawal tried another tactic.
“Alright. Alright, what if you cut your hand off for me again? Then I will forge said metal to the mithril and the result you take back!”
Yvlon brightened up.
“That sounds very practical. My idea was to just activate [Ignore Pain] and let you hammer away.”
Nawal gave Yvlon a long look.
“Yes…it is a bad thing, I think, when I am accused of being the most practical one in the room. Ech, it’s gloopy, your metal.”
She prodded the puddle of silversteel dripping off her anvil, and Yvlon worried she’d have trouble with that, but Nawal just shrugged.
“[Harden Metal]. There, now I can hit it. One and two and…aha.”
She fused the bit of silversteel to the mithril, checked the welds, and declared her work was ‘all but perfect’ when she showed Yvlon the thumb-like chunk of mithril attached to the silversteel. Then she developed a wicked smile.
“And if I can do it so simply—your silversteel has almost no hammerscale, and it is exceedingly pure—then Adamantium is not much harder! Give me thirty minutes while I heat it up.”
She went back to the forge, and Yvlon edged away from the sudden blaze of heat. Nawal could tolerate it, but Yvlon shouted as the [Smith] inserted the ingot into the forge.
“I heard Smith Maughin of Pallass was learning to forge Adamantium! How can you do it at your age, Nawalishifra?”
“Hah! Adamantium is just heat. There are places in the Glass Straits where the heat collects to such a degree you can find a ray of light that will melt a man’s arm off should he swing it through the light. Naq-Alrama steel has so many more steps, so much harder…it is harder than Adamantium itself, if not stronger. Adamantium will bend. Naq-Alrama breaks, but still, few beings aside from the King of Destruction, that monstrous man, could do either.”
Yvlon had heard from Pisces that Nawal was actually pleasant to talk to, but Yvlon had never heard the [Smith] say as many words in so pleasant a tone. She sat cross-legged, watching the Adamantium glow, and Nawal begin to tap it.
“That doesn’t change the fact that you’re an amazing [Smith], Nawal. Does the King of Destruction use you to make his best weapons?”
The young woman flinched and glanced at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] didn’t know why until she remembered the shields Nawal had been unhappily making.
“No. And he is right not to trust me. I was a fool twice. Once for not speaking honesty when the truth was in the metal. I lost my clan for that. Second…when I thought redemption was just a bloody, messy blade forged of death. I did not pay the price for that. I should have. But it was Bandit Lord Maresar who did. So I swore never to make a blade. This, by the way, is no blade. Just an arm that turns into one.”
That was how she was getting around her vow? She seemed happier, regardless, not to make a shield. Yvlon ventured a comment after listening to the tapping.
“I know a thing or two about mistakes myself. My arms were because I was too stubborn to stop and heal them. I lost my first team out of arrogance.”
“Ah. Then you at least respect what a strange miracle they are. As much as I make fun…it is something to see metal move like your arms. And they will be stronger.”
Nawal held up a glowing bar of Adamantium so hot it raised the temperature in the room immensely, then stuck it in the forge again. Yvlon surreptitiously got the Amulet of Flame Resistance and sighed as it cooled her down.
“I, uh, know some famous [Smiths] of Izril.”
The [Smith] stopped humming and tapping on the bar and turned from the forge. She stared at Yvlon, then adopted a sing-song voice.
“Oh, and I know some adventurers of Chandrar! I bet you would know all their ilk! Since you are an adventurer and so are they!”
She spat on the ground, and Yvlon flushed.
“…Fair enough. I only meant—”
Nawal went back to smithing.
“I don’t know this ‘Maughin’ of Pallass. His is not a great name. Many of the old [Smiths] are retired or gone. New ones have not yet emerged worthy of remembering. Not even Mrell of Demas Metal, as fine as it is. Your Master Pelt—yes. But he dishonored his craft as bad as—no, worse than I.”
“He returned to smithing though.”
Nawal inspected the bar again, then began to carefully heat up the metal of silversteel to forging temperature.
“Ah, well, it would be an honor to speak with him and learn his wisdom. Exile and outcast to exile and outcast. Still! Clan Tannousin taught me their ways, and while I cannot equal his mastery, I will not fall behind any [Smith] of Chandrar save Djinn. I do not lack for technique, merely a path.”
Well, she wasn’t arrogant at all. Yvlon crossed her arms, then hesitated. She glanced around, lowered her voice. Everyone was at the Court of Silks, and she had been told Nawal’s forge would be warded. Besides, this heat would kill anyone without an amulet of flame resistance on.
“Nawal, he never said what he did. Do you, um, know?”
Nawal spun.
“Are you asking me to betray another [Smith]’s greatest shame?”
“Um. Yes?”
The [Smith] held the burning bar of Adamantium in tongs that Yvlon realized had to be made of Adamantium themselves. She paused.
“Ah, well. I heard he forged a batch of metals that had flaws. The most pathetic, junior mistake of a [Smith] to not test their metal. Any child of Clan Tannousin is beaten if they let such things pass, but they were filled up on their own greed and pride. The metal broke.”
“Oh. And it ruined their reputations? Pelt talks like it was a mortal sin…”
Nawal was gazing at the Adamantium, which was now so white-hot it was burning Yvlon’s eyes. She spoke in a sad voice.
“Yvlon Byres, who does not pretend to know so much…if it were arms for the King of Destruction, that would be one thing. There are far more things to which [Smiths] make metal. I have only made blades. This was for architecture, or so I was told. It killed far, far more than any one blade, any hundred faulty blades could.”
“Oh. Oh no.”
Then Yvlon understood how tragedy could occur and not be seen until…Nawal nodded. She paused a moment, hammer resting on the anvil.
“…It is good we speak of such things. If I were to make metal for homes, I should not disparage the work. Lest a roof fall on a baby and I be thrice-damned. But this?”
She held up her work, and Yvlon saw a weird, lopsided piece of silver metal fused into two ‘thumbs’ of ingots, mithril and Adamantium. Nawal eyed her creation.
“I would call it art, but I fear the class might find me. Here.”
She blew on the Adamantium block and shoved it to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] eyed the block of metal, and her arm gingerly crept towards the silversteel that she knew was hers.
This couldn’t actually work, right? Nawal’s eyes locked on Yvlon’s arm as the metal flowed, rejoining the arm. Then Yvlon flexed her hand, and the mithril and Adamantium trembled…and began to deform.
“It works.”
Yvlon gasped. Nawal nearly leapt into the forge.
“It does? I thought it had no chance! But then—that’s a Tannousin weld for you!”
She puffed out her chest, then muttered under her breath—
“I can’t believe that worked.”
 
——
 
A problem arose after about three minutes. Yvlon was sweating, and her arms were hot. The Adamantium had rapidly cooled, but it was still burningly hot even with the amulet on; that didn’t matter.
She had an Adamantium hand! Okay, an Adamantium finger. The ingot was slowly moving as she forced her will upon it. It was still ‘foreign’, but she felt like she could exert control over it thanks to the connection Nawalishifra had established. The problem was…
“Is that for me?”
Nawalishifra stared at the giant Adamantium middle finger that Yvlon was waving in her direction. The [Armsmistress] grunted; the mithril was a smaller index finger.
“No! I’m trying to get it to form…a plating over my hand.”
Nawal eyed the tiny bit of Adamantium slowly creeping over the back of Yvlon’s hand. She coughed.
“Yes, I can see it working quite well. Do you want me to come back in an hour?”
She poured herself some water as Yvlon’s brow kneaded with sweat. After a moment, Nawal poured some water on Yvlon’s head to cool her down. Which made things worse.
“Wait, it’s even harder now! I—I can’t move it!”
Yvlon had been moving the mithril and Adamantium slowly, slowly across her arm, but when the water splashed onto the metal, she realized what was wrong.
“It’s too hard! I can’t—shift it!”
The [Smith]’s brows bounced up, and she squatted down swiftly.
“You cannot? Ah, it’s cool now. But you can sense it?”
“Yes, vaguely, but it’s like trying to move…a rock!”
The metal was solid, totally unwilling to move without heat. Nawal pursed her lips.
“Ah. I’m beginning to think that I was too hasty in judging your arms, Yvlon Byres the Silver Killer. Let’s try something. I’ll heat the mithril up—damn, no, with the amulet on—here, I’ll snip it off, reforge, and we’ll try when it’s hot.”
When Yvlon tried to reabsorb the glowing yellow bar of mithril, she nearly screamed. It was too hot! But she managed to form the mithril into a pair of fingers until they cooled—then she couldn’t move them.
“Fascinating. You can control metal like one controls water, but…hm. Try this?”
She handed Yvlon some iron, and the two expected Yvlon might bend it around with ease given she could do Adamantium, but she was unable to get it to so much as twitch while cold.
“Odd. So you can only move metal when metal wishes to be moved.”
“Except for my silversteel.”
Nawal tapped Yvlon’s arms with her hammer, frowning as she hammered it into a lump on the anvil. Yvlon glowered; Nawal apologetically snipped the Adamantium off and trimmed the silversteel.
“I understand, I think. This…isn’t silver and steel.”
She pointed at Yvlon’s arms. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] opened her mouth as if she’d been shot by a bunch of Erin-killing bolts.
“Impossible. It’s in my class!”
“No, no. I know metal. This is neither silver nor steel. I grant you, it may be an alloy of both, but it is not plain silver and plain steel conjoined. It’s something else. Something far, far more complex.”
Yvlon recalled what Pelt had once said about her arms. Elegant, he’d said. Would he say that if it was really just House Byres’ alloy? Nawal was thinking down the same track.
“Perhaps I am the fool. For here I think this must be some ‘new’ metal when, perhaps…no, it is silver and steel, I am sure of it! It is mere shit steel and silver conjoined; elsewise, how could my hammer mash it so flat even when you make it strong as could be? I must think of it differently.”
She peered at Yvlon’s arms, again being offensive about the makeup. Yet Nawal pointed.
“You can make a puddle out of your arms. Do it. Then make the other arm hard as, well, it can be.”
Yvlon did, and one arm drooped and nearly dripped as Nawal felt at it, and the other scored the iron ingot with ease.
“Yes…yes.”
“Yes what?”
“It can be both! Solid as solid can be, malleable as molten metal! Your arms are some kind of metal like this! And that is why regular metals won’t work! It must be treated like your arms! Turned into this puddle-solid!”
Yvlon didn’t think Nawal knew the right term for the metal quality, but the idea struck a chord with her. Maybe that was what her arms were! Rather than just giving her control over metal, her class had created this metal.
“So you’re saying it’s not some fancy new metal. But something else. Something elegant, Master Pelt said.”
Nawal twisted around.
“He said that? And you didn’t tell me?”
“Well, it’s just a word—”
Now, the girl was all over the place, inspecting Yvlon’s arms, trying to take a sample, thinking out loud.
“Elegant from a master who has hammered every shape to metal—beyond, yes, beyond even Clan Tannousin? Elegant does not make me think new metal at all. I think my theory is right. This is some treatment, some process that makes metal capable of being both solid and liquid at once. At the same temperature!”
At first blush, it might not have sounded like much. But to Yvlon, who came from a family who had smiths, and to Nawal, the idea was just…ludicrous.
Insane even for women who knew metal could be worked like magic. Yvlon hesitated.
“That’s my idea too, but I can’t even imagine an enchantment that could do this. Perhaps some alchemy.”
“Perhaps, but if so, it is permanent. Extraordinary. Is it alchemy, I wonder? Many great works of smithing are unto alchemy themselves…”
Nawal was now searching her brain for any equivalent metal she had ever known like this, but Yvlon had to ask the big question.
“Well, can you make more? Or figure out the process and treat Adamantium or another metal like this?”
Nawalishifra stopped. She peered at Yvlon’s arms, and a note of true uncertainty entered her voice.
“I…don’t know. I do not know this technique. It is no metal that Clan Tannousin uses or would ever use. A droopy metal like that? A flaccid alloy?”
“Please don’t call it that.”
“It has no use I know, but then, I have never heard of such a metal. What could be made of it?”
Her eyes lit up as she stared at Yvlon’s arms. Then Nawal took in the smith’s room around her and laughed softly. She picked up her hammer again, and pointed it at Yvlon.
“Well. Perhaps I have a project worth spending Nerrhavia Fallen’s gold and knowledge upon.”
She turned to Yvlon, and the light of the challenge filled her face. Nawal gestured excitedly at Yvlon’s arms.
“Yes. I must study to see how this may be done. Perform alchemy or other experiments myself—with great caution, of course—and see if the Great Sage knows of what I am talking of. And find more samples like your arms to study. Those Oresect beetles everyone warns me about…”
“Oh, those were made from my arms, I think.”
Nawal nearly tossed the bar of Adamantium out the window as she went to put it away. She whirled, stared at Yvlon, then began laughing. She leaned against her forge, laughing until she nearly sucked her veil into her throat, and wiped at her eyes.
“You Horns, you, eh, you’re worse than the King of Destruction for madness. Argh. But you don’t damn nations when you rage, yet. I give, I give. This is better than meaningless shields. Give me a finger’s worth, nay, two fingers’ worth of metal and I shall do my best. And a list of the things you eat when you are hungry—and House Byres’ ‘secret alloy’, yes?”
She wrote all of it down except for House Byres’ secret alloy, which she spat on and tossed the recipe out the window. She was still rude, but Yvlon went away smiling as Nawal grumbled about having to find these Oresect beetles for more tests.
“Well, how’d it go?”
Ceria asked Yvlon over a private dinner, and Yvlon frowned.
“Well, I lost two fingers’ worth of metal, but I have high hopes Nawal can make more.”
She studied her teammates’ expressions and tried to clarify.
“No, the two fingers’ worth I gave her—I was mostly fine.”
“What about the [Servant] who came into the banquet hall screaming you were covered in blood and about to murder Nawalishifra?”
Pisces wanted to know, and Yvlon sighed. Reputations were such an annoying thing.
 
——
 
Reputations. One day everyone looks at you like you were some kind of rabid dog ready to murder everything if they sneezed wrong, the next, you were a tamed animal, a foreign metal mutt with more bark than bite who reflected badly on her owner, Yisame, and peed on the rugs.
Yvlon was tempted to pee on the rugs in the Court of Silks the next day. Berr would do it. The titters and comments about her embarrassing display in the Coliseum of Monarchs were all about the vast chambers, and it was hurting Yisame.
Colth had framed it as a knock-on effect. If Yisame was seen to humor Yvlon, whom she was known to admire and respect, and even to give way to Yvlon, then she tied her own reputation and power to Yvlon’s danger and reputation as the Silver Killer.
But if Lenxiol and Bnirm proved she was merely a Gold-ranker with an overly-inflated sense of ego, then what was the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen doing? She had either poor judgement or the Horns became her weakness. Moreover, if they wanted the Traitorous Three back, Yisame had to give something Bnirm’s faction wanted. And Yvlon had made it obvious how much Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte meant to her.
At least Relladen was “alright”. He was serving in the army, having apparently traded his crimes against Nerrhavia’s Fallen for service. But Yisame was now in a bind, even if she was acting like all was well, and it was Yvlon’s fault.
Colth didn’t frame it that way, of course. Just implied it with every kindly explanation. She knew that he and Ceria were trying to account for her…wildness. For her idiocy. She appreciated her teammates not screaming at her—well, a second time—and just wished that she could reassure them she knew what she was doing.
…She just wasn’t quite sure she did know what she was doing, so for the moment, Yvlon played dumb. This strategy was effected in the most straightforwards way possible.
“Ah, Adventurer Byres. One hears you are desirous of a match against the Champion of Monarchs in single combat. Do you truly feel you have a chance? Not since Mars herself has a Champion reigned so long in the coliseum. And your own record, while exemplary, shows you were beaten by lesser [Gladiators].”
Yvlon turned to the Silk [Lady] who greeted her at the head of a roving band of marauder-[Ladies], on the hunt for weaknesses. She smiled and held out a hand.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres.”
“Er, that we know. I was referring to—”
“Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous.”
“A fact all witnessed yesterday!”
Another [Lady] quipped to titters from her audience, but Yvlon wasn’t done.
“I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez…”
They stared at her as she listed her accomplishments and her team’s recent deeds in chronological order for them. Then, when one tried to get a word in edgewise about the fate of Vitte, Yvlon Byres began to talk about House Byres.
“House Byres steel is actually an alloy of silver and steel, did you know that? It’s not considered quite as strong as traditional steel, but the sheen and the qualities of the metal are considered worth the tradeoff. Unlike traditional steel, proper silversteel alloy does not rust but tarnish and is sometimes considered a valuable asset in wet or marshy terrain. The going rate for silver, historically, has been far higher than modern day prices, which has led to…”
They excused themselves.
She followed.
 
——
 
“Captain Ceria Springwalker. It has been an age, hasn’t it?”
“A literal one, Prince Zenol. It feels like we owe you a lot. Yvlon does, and I’m only sad Ksmvr couldn’t be here.”
Ceria and Zenol shook hands at last in the Court of Silks, watched by many, but the half-Elf was genuinely beaming up at him. He glanced at her damaged circlet and smiled ruefully.
There were lines on his face she didn’t recall from that haughty Chandrarian [Prince] not so long ago. It did feel like an age since the Village of the Dead. All that desperation, the insane raid on the say-so of Pisces’ mysterious helper…
“I’m pleased that your tale didn’t end in the Village of the Dead. And what a tale it became. I was proud to say I was there and part of it. Even if that Drake with a sword showed all present we did not deserve to clear that dungeon.”
Ceria’s eyes dipped, and she took a breath, staring into her winecup.
“The other teams got the gold…but I’ll be the first to admit that you got robbed of a lot of the treasures, Zenol. Especially because I didn’t mention my circlet when we divided the loot. Or Ksmvr’s sword since it was in Chandrar. We owe the other teams, and if they want to collect, well, I’ll sort it out as best I can. But you could collect right now.”
She took her circlet off her head and swirled one arm around in the winecup. It wasn’t a complete circle; the pearlescent ivory ended two-thirds of the way around the head. The [Prince] noticed there was a visible crack down the center and in a few places where it seemed to be faintly green. Repaired? Also that Ceria had been gnawing on one end, though that might just be his imagination.
Zenol snorted, and she peeked up to see a smile cross his face, and he seemed relieved by it.
“The sight of you sending my noble Court of Silks into twisted knots and frayed ends is a reward in and of itself, Ceria. We knew from the moment you four headed into the center that you had put more on the line than any of us were willing to. Isn’t that how it should work? To those that risk the most the glory.”
His eyes glittered with delight for adventure itself. He was still dressed like the royalty he was, haughty and, she had no doubt, objectionable in some way. But as adventurers went—she licked her circlet and grinned.
“Fancy words, Prince Zenol. But just say the word when you actually need something? Before we leave.”
He hesitated, then gave her a gracious nod as he glanced around the room.
“Perhaps some small deeds may serve. If you do not know, I have faced the King of Destruction’s armies to show House Isphel’s dedication towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Pass on fighting him. But how is it?”
Zenol stood there a second and developed that stare that Ceria’s grandmother sometimes had. The one she recognized that even adventurers lacked.
“It is hardly as pleasant, reaping lives instead of monster carcasses. Even if it is sometimes easier, there’s no glory in it.”
That was all he said. Ceria nodded, then turned as a voice called out.
“Just like House Isphel to get cold strings after seeing the reality of war. As if one meager [Prince]-turned-adventurer shifted the warfront any. Isphel arrogance, Isphel weakness. You would do well to court true royalty, Captain Ceria. One trusts you would be wiser than the Silver Killer, or at least, to keep her better in check.”
Ceria pointed at the other [Prince], who smirked at Zenol with a far larger following.
“Who that?”
“Prince Esceit of House Quarein. A notable detractor of House Isphel.”
Zenol murmured through gritted teeth. The insults didn’t seem that good to Ceria, but she supposed there was royal pride. Even the perception of insult was too much. She peered at the haughty [Prince].
“So he’s the one who’s jealous of Nerrhavia Fallen’s most famous [Prince]?”
That took the wind out of Prince Esceit’s sails. He paled as the people around him gasped.
“How dare you!”
Ceria threw up her hands—and Zenol dodged the splash of wine that hit five people behind her. In her most honest voice, Ceria clasped her hands together.
“Oh, no! I don’t mean to offend! I’m terribly sorry if I implied anything of the sort!”
Prince Esceit unmottled slightly, and Ceria continued.
“It’s just the truth. Swear on a [Detect Truth] spell. See? No one knows about Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Princes]. Put a crossbow to my head and I couldn’t name any of you lot. But Prince Zenol Isphel, well, most of Izril saw him at the Village of the Dead. So he’s the most famous. Sorry. If you wanted to raid a death zone, I’m sure you’d all be just as memorable!”
She smiled as she held up a glowing [Detect Truth] spell in one hand. The Court of Silks murmured, and Zenol hid a smile as he stood straighter.
Eat shit, Prince Whoever You Are. Esceit was searching for a comeback to her apparently innocent drag on him before he snarled.
“That a [Prince] need stoop to the level of a commoner is a disgrace in itself!”
He wanted to end it with that, but Ceria turned to Zenol.
“Commoner? You had dozens of [Servants] who practically did everything for you. Every other Gold-ranking team couldn’t stand you waltzing in and lording it over the others. If that’s commonering it up, what do you do here?”
Zenol stroked his chin, preening like the peacock every [Prince] was, as Prince Esceit’s glower turned more intense. Ceria winked at Zenol as she got another winecup and tested it for poisons. Ooh, this one had something in it. She’d have to toss it on someone. The Ice Squirrel could at least pack a punch when no one expected it.
As for Yvlon—she saw a group of squawking [Ladies] fleeing Yvlon as the Silver Killer crossed the room.
“We are done with this conversation! Goodbye!”
“Silver has a much lower melting point than steel, so the process of making silversteel alloy is actually quite fascinating. Shortly after mining, the silver is washed in a custom bath of liquids to remove any impurities before—”
Ceria and Zenol were chuckling over her antics, which were, for once, largely harmless, when the [Ladies] burst through a crowd of people like a flock of frightened silk geese. And there—Ceria’s heart stopped. She dropped the winecup, this time by accident, and her face froze up.
There she was.
Unexpected. Larger than life. Without warning, next to the old [Bard], whose very voice declaimed legends, with Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace standing like schoolchildren next to adults. Yvlon Byres came to a halt as she came face to face with her.
Cognita Truestone. Yvlon gazed up at the Truestone Golem as Cognita turned, her expression of immeasurable boredom and disinterest flickering when she saw Ceria and Pisces and Colth, who were circulating the Court of Silks.
Yvlon glanced at Ceria as the half-Elf’s life at Wistram flashed before her eyes. Illphres. Pisces’ mistake. The test. Mage Rievan. Beatrice, Montressa, Calvaron—
Yvlon Byres studied her captain, then nodded. She made a fist and turned back to Cognita. She swung one hand up—-
 
——
 
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous.”
Few beings tried to shake her hand. Let alone so…obviously. They’d make the attempt, think to impress others, and never quite get their hands up. Or realize she had no intention of shaking their hand and let it fall.
Cognita Truestone stared at Yvlon Byres’ hand, a foot from her face, and it didn’t waver. Ten seconds passed. Then twenty in dead silence as Barelle the [Bard] raised his brows. At last, slowly, Cognita Truestone took the hand.
She extended two fingers and pushed it down. Yvlon Byres tried to resist; Cognita felt it, but the Truestone Golem effortlessly forced her hand down.
Her eyes. They were locked on Cognita’s own with an intensity that made the Truestone Golem reconsider whether the title ‘Silver Killer’ truly was a misnomer. She made what observations she wished, little caring if they sounded nonsensical to those listening or Yvlon herself.
“[Berserker]. I am familiar with the class or Skill. You are far less decorous than your brother, Ylawes Byres. He behaved with the decorum of a [Knight] despite lacking for an order. An irregularity to meet a Knight of Izril. I had noted it upon Wistram’s logs.”
Cognita noticed, to her urbane amusement, this seemed to incense the woman slightly.
“Ylawes did mention visiting Wistram. He also mentioned rescuing children held against their will.”
“A perspective not entirely unwarranted. I acted in defense of Wistram at the time.”
“So Wistram takes [Slaves]?”
The burning blue gaze intensified, and Cognita’s voice was flat; she had heard this argument before, but the results were interesting enough in this case.
“When has it ceased to?”
Confusion. Predictable. Boring. Cognita turned to Barelle the Bard. It seemed his conclusions were correct; this was a Gold-rank team, perhaps of higher overall level and gear quality than the Silver Swords, but no more.
“Excuse me.”
She took a step towards the [Bard] and halted. It seemed she had to recalculate her appraisal of Yvlon Byres. Few people offered her a handshake in earnest.
Fewer still dared touch her.
Part of that was the sheer height difference. Cognita, when she cared to be, was normally around eight point eight feet tall. Out of reach for most people—but Yvlon Byres’ arm had stretched. It was resting on Cognita’s shoulder. She let go as the Truestone Golem woman turned her head.
“Your transgressions are unwelcome, Yvlon Byres. I warn you once. There will not be a second time.”
“I apologize, Cognita Truestone. I merely didn’t wish for you to go before greeting my captain, Ceria Springwalker, and Pisces. They studied in Wistram as you surely recall. You named them [Mages].”
Cognita glanced at Pisces, but she hadn’t seen any undead in his presence capable of levelling. Thus, he had failed. She turned away.
“I recall everything, Adventurer. I have witnessed them once more. It pleases me they continue to study magic in their own ways. I have read and responded to their occasional missives. Conversation would be a further waste of my time.”
“Truly? They would surprise you, I think.”
The [Armsmistress] was so convinced of her position that Cognita elected to break her rule about tampering with politics in some small way. She turned, and her voice was direct.
“A sentient circlet is not unique. Nor is a spellbook written by the levelless. I have witnessed relics of old Walled Cities. Nothing I behold is new, woman of metal.”
If he had mastered the formula that Perril Chandler claimed to have finally perfected and had offered to her…she saw Yvlon’s eyes widen.
“I’ve been called that before. Woman of metal.”
“Indeed? Fascinating.”
If the woman was at all wise, she would drop this line of inquiry; Cognita’s statements had been registered even by the Court of Silks. She was endangering her team. However, Cognita Truestone saw Barelle’s own head was tilted in an annoying fashion.
He was intrigued by what he’d heard. She glowered and strode past him, not in the mood to humor his requests he could easily answer with his own research. After a second, she glanced to the side.
“I have no injunctions against violence here or against you, Adventurer.”
“Neither do I. What does ‘woman of metal’ mean? Am I doomed to become metal? I’ve been called it time and again by people who seem to have met people like me.”
There was a slight note of desperation in Yvlon Byres’ voice. Because it seemed to be the most optimal solution, Cognita slowed her walk out of the Court of Silks’ main zone and into open rock gardens and replied flatly. The sun shone off her and the magical stones placed in aesthetically pleasing formations. Which was all that she and the rock gardens were.
“That is not inevitable. Even should you pursue your class. It is a mere title to refer to beings who were, at best, part-Golem. Those who forsake their original bodies for those of artificial creation. Metal is not even the prerequisite for the classification.”
The [Armsmistress] relaxed slightly.
“Good.”
The answer displeased Cognita greatly. Because it was the answer that was…appropriate and therefore enraging.
“You do not wish to become a being of superior metal, Adventurer Byres? In time, you would become as close to a woman of stone as myself. That is the path your class walks. With every injury. You would be wise to fear it. To transform into a being similar to a Golem is a terrible fate.”
“I didn’t wish to imply that. I’m just—wary of losing what remains of my flesh.”
“As I stated, wise.”
Yvlon eyed Cognita and backed up a step.
“I see. Then why does that make you angry?”
Cognita realized her perfect posture had shifted forwards. She righted herself, and her face smoothed.
“Merely reflections of the last Truestone Golem. Inconsequential, I am sure, Adventurer Byres. Someday, you will also face the agony of a woman of metal: you will outlive and outlast your team, if they even survive their journeys. It is no exaggeration to claim this: your class is a [Warrior]. All other members of your team present are hybrid or dedicated spellcasters. With rare exception, your lifespan will exceed theirs.”
Then you will have cause to regret the strength of your body, when you are alone. It was a conclusion Cognita had come to the moment she perceived her master, Zelkyr, was aging. The terror of that he himself had grappled with until the last day she’d seen him…
It was not that she desired to see Yvlon Byres in distress. Merely an acceptable outcome. However, it disconcerted Cognita to see Yvlon Byres smile. She put her hands in her pockets and breathed in and out.
“I believe I’ve offended you, Cognita Truestone. I apologize; I am not my brother. I…appreciate you speaking frankly to me. Though I don’t think you’re correct. I’m lucky. It’s true my teammates might perish. But if old age should take us, well. I’ll consider it a blessing to make it that far.”
Cognita whispered and felt an emotion she had once labelled ‘horror’ rising in her chest. Directed at Yvlon. A kind of…observed horror.
“You state this without understanding. The potential to become a full woman of metal is all but guaranteed given your class. Should you pass Level 60, you may well become a being unto a Golem in every regard. You will live for centuries with ease.”
She didn’t know. Cognita saw Yvlon’s eyes widen and however remote the possibility was, Cognita hoped she died before she came to that point.
It would be a mercy.
She expected the woman to say something mortal, with bravado and lack of understanding. But Yvlon Byres just stared at her metal foot, then up at Cognita. And her tonality and body language did not speak of bravado. But still, incomprehensibly, relief. And happiness. And pain. And…
Cognita’s senses focused more on Yvlon Byres than any individual in the last six months as the woman spoke.
“Well…I can’t say I’d enjoy being a true woman of metal. But even then, I think—I have good chances.”
“Explain.”
Yvlon nodded over her shoulder. No one had dared follow them into the gardens, not the [Queen], not the spies. Not after Cognita Truestone.
“One of my teammates is Pisces. He’s a [Necromancer]. I imagine they could defy death if anyone could. Colth? I don’t know about Colth, but he’s close to a warrior. But one of my new teammates is strange. She might live a long time or a short one, I don’t know. Mostly, though? I know Ceria’s a half-Elf. She’ll live longer than metal itself! What a thought.”
She grinned ruefully, as if the notion of having someone to pass the aeons with were displeasing. Alone. Alone. 
Cognita felt enraged. Desolate. Two hundred years of life was a mere fragment for a Golem such as she, and it was too long. Alone…
Spitefully, she pointed out.
“There is a probability that you will outlive even a half-Elf. They fall to disease, even in timeless villages. What then?”
Then? The [Armsmistress]’ eyes clouded as Cognita wished. As she longed for no being to have to face. Then they brightened with a faraway light, as if she were staring at something else.
A quality beyond memory. That which mortals called imagination. Or…a dream. She replied to Cognita with a laugh.
“I imagine I’d be a terribly grumpy old woman. I don’t think I’d ever find another team like this. And I’d get too old to make more friends.”
“Yes. That would be a ridiculous statement to utter. It is so difficult to find those who are unique. Only a few, like Barelle the Bard, would qualify. And they have their own lives.”
Cognita whispered. Yvlon’s eyes remained fixed on that distant horizon.
“Then, I suppose, I’m the luckiest woman in the world, Cognita. Because my last teammate is an Antinium. Ksmvr. He can come back from the dead if the circumstances are right. But more importantly? He’s Antinium. I know another Antinium named Klbkch…and he was there from the start of his species. I don’t know if they can die from old age, some of them. Klbkch can’t, I don’t think, and if he can’t, maybe the Queens could do the same for Ksmvr. I imagine he might get tired of me, but it wouldn’t be the worst, then. To be a woman of metal dancing the years away with that silly fellow wearing his greying mustache.”
What was she gazing at? Cognita realized her structure was trembling. She tried to control herself, but she could not. Envy surged through her. An envy she had felt that exceeded that of her sisters when they won Zelkyr’s praise, or Perril Chandler’s, who could be Zelkyr’s friend and equal.
“So long as I do things right, I won’t have to face that problem. And if I do it right, then I won’t lose any members of my team first. I suppose that’s an arrogant answer, but it’s the only one I have. Cognita? Miss Cognita?”
The Golem woman didn’t reply. She merely drew herself up and gazed down at the fledgling woman of metal.
“Concluding our conversation, a part of me now wishes for your team’s demise, Yvlon Byres.”
The [Armsmistress] started, and her arms reflexively morphed to combat shapes, but Cognita continued, her voice level.
“However, that emotion I have catalogued and identified as jealousy. An emotion which has no use in any being. Any being, Master. How can you be jealous of your creations?”
“Cognita?”
The Truestone Golem went on, gazing at Yvlon.
“We shall then consider it a bet between you and I. The consequences of failure are immeasurable. I shall monitor your career with interest. Now, I request this conversation come to a close.”
She turned away, swiftly, and the startled [Armsmistress] bowed.
“T-thank you, Miss Truestone.”
Miss Truestone. Not Lady, just Truestone. As if it was her name. As if she were a person. Cognita did not smile; she could repress those mere expressions.
“It is evident your time is as limited as mine. Your conclusions are correct, Yvlon Byres. Your intelligence, in some tangible way, does not fall behind that of your teammates and exceeds them in this instance.”
She stole a glance as Yvlon jumped and then bowed again and stepped back. She didn’t quite get what Cognita meant at first; that was fine. It was Cognita’s observations to herself.
What a curious woman. She was gambling with eternity on the promise of the merest, most hypothetical outcome. Ridiculous…if she were in Yvlon’s place, Cognita would have done the same thing.
Tell me, Yvlon Byres. What would you do if you lost your team and you stood alone, facing eternity with no one to share it with?
Cognita Truestone did not ask that question because it was revealing. Because she did not wish to, perhaps fearing a lack of an answer or the one she had come to. But mostly…because she still wasn’t sure herself whether the situation she imagined had arisen.
For her.
Cognita only knew that love had faded—or twisted—and she was unhappy.
Besides, this woman wasn’t truly of metal. She could not comprehend the question, not fully. But maybe…
“Cognita?”
Barelle the Bard found her in the gardens after Yvlon Byres had walked off. He turned to her, then glanced at the Horns still present.
“I have never heard you entertain a conversation with someone else for so long in all the time you have been in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Did she upset you or impress you?”
“…I do not know. I felt sorry for her. Then envious. Emotions I rarely experience. I agreed with your assessment, Barelle. They are not worthy of the [Bard]’s songs. When she reaches Level 50, you may reappraise that claim.”
“When?”
He was startled. Cognita turned on her heels. She had somewhere to be. Her calculations were seldom incorrect. She took a few coins from his bag of holding.
“I will make arrangements and greet you when next we meet.”
“Which is…?”
The Truestone Golem strode away without a word. She could not see the future. Just predict courses of action with such certainty it had been confused for such at times. But she wondered, suddenly, how the story of Yvlon Byres would end. It was a mystery in a world that held so few for Cognita. Unexpected.
She had not expected it there.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres didn’t really sleep that night. She tossed and turned and lay in her bedroll as the rest of her team came in for the night. They wanted to know what she’d said to Cognita, of course. They were under the impression she’d really Yvlon’d—to use Ceria’s expression—the situation up.
Cognita had left the Court of Silks thereafter, but Yvlon didn’t think it had been a bad conversation. It had been veering that way, but…then the Golem woman had sounded so desolate. Ceria had laughed at Yvlon.
“Cognita sad? Do you hear that, Pisces? Ha! Hahahahahaha—”
Yvlon had thrown her pillows at Ceria until the Ice Squirrel left. Colth had brought other news.
“That Prince Esceit’s all over his feud with Zenol. All kinds of pettiness. Economic and social pressure. You beating down his [Doomguard] just made him angrier.”
“I didn’t see…Beton. He was strong, but he let me win that fight.”
“Oh, he was fired. Apparently, he took sick, and the [Prince] has no room in his staff for anyone with frailties.”
It sounded like him. Yvlon had said they should meet Zirre and Beton, and Colth had told her they’d come up with a plan about the Traitorous Three tomorrow. Yisame might have to just buy them off the [Manager], Bnirm, but it would cost her favors.
That she was going to wasn’t apparently discussed beyond Pisces giving Yvlon strange looks. Nawal came in all sooty and announced that she was going to be forging and no one should get them all assassinated, and then the Heromakers returned and it was all quiet.
But she didn’t sleep. That image, that dream she’d had stayed in Yvlon’s mind. Cognita’s haunting words…
If I do it just right—I’ll watch them all die. But at least Ksmvr would be there. I couldn’t leave him alone.
Yvlon punched her pillows. There was no guarantee they’d make it a year, let alone thousands of years! Cognita just thought in different ways from mortals. This was a stupid train of thought; she might get killed tomorrow if she kept Yvlonning.
But am I afraid of becoming a woman of metal? Yes. Terribly. Can I quit?
…
She had a daydream about Berr. A memory.
Berr, her one and only master. He taught a lot of theory, which had surprised her. For being a [Berserker]-[Barbarian] helping her control her temper, he had been more sage wisdom.
Albeit delivered in his usual manner. After one particularly tough bout of sparring where he taught her hand-to-hand tricks, he flopped down onto the grass next to her and lay side-by-side as they panted and stared at the stars.
She had been conscious of his presence next to her. Yvlon Byres, as a chaste [Lady] and then adventurer, had been intimate with other men. But she had never been in the proximity of someone of the opposite gender in a non-intimate sense like this. Hugging Pisces or ruffling his hair for good luck or helping pick detritus out of Ksmvr’s shell was as close as it got.
Berr noticed, of course. He always did. He’d sat up and asked about it in his direct manner.
“Hrr. I have been thinking, Yvlon, yes? Tell me about your father. Did he ever do this?”
“What, teach me combat? No.”
Berr shook his head.
“No, I meant—this kind of thing. Teach you numbers. Read a book with you on his lap. Or spar, one supposes.”
Yvlon thought. And she’d shaken her head.
“No…I suppose once or twice he tested my swordplay, and he praised me for doing well. But my mother would read to us, and he’d listen, maybe. We were close. I used to jump in our hot springs with the family. That’s the last memory I have of us being together, Ysara, Ylawes, and I.”
“When was that?”
“…When I was eight?”
Berr hmmed.
“What about your brother, then? Did they ever fight?”
“What? Spar? With swords—”
“No, I mean, with fists. They never got drunk and fought? Or argued and swung at each other?”
Yvlon was mildly horrified at the notion. She shook her head.
“Ylawes would never! I can’t imagine him ever arguing with father. Mother once said he does, but not a—a real argument.”
“Hrr, what’s a real argument?”
“Swinging at each other—they’d never do that. Or even argue like Pisces and I can, or me and Ceria. Or me and Colth. Like, like—”
Real people? She bit back the word and talked around it.
“If they disagree, they’d talk it out civilly. And if it was a huge rift…well, father’s the [Lord] of House Byres. I know Ylawes argued with him over the siege of Liscor, but it was assuredly not physical.”
The old Gnoll nodded and stretched out his back.
“Hm. I see where your anger comes from. And his. I wonder if he’ll have to come here too.”
That irked her, and Yvlon turned.
“It’s culturally different, Berr. I think you’d respect that Humans can do things differently.”
“Oh, I can respect it. I just don’t in this case. Parents should be seen to be drunk and silly. Someone you can never touch is like…an idea. A perfect thing, and we aren’t. You should punch him the next time you two meet.”
She’d rolled her eyes at that. But then he’d insisted on treating her like a little girl.
“You need a childhood. Here. So high, so high!”
And he’d tossed her thirty feet straight up. Caught her on the way down. Did it again. Until she was laughing despite herself. Then came the theory. He sat, having a smoke from some herbal grass he’d rolled into a primitive cigarette. Mostly to try to blow smokerings like a child.
“This is not something you should share, Yvlon Byres. But it is a good lesson…eh, here it is. Did you know, before the Meeting of Tribes turned to war, that the Wild Wastes tribe was not sure what it would do? Chieftain Perale, he was split on heeding Shaman Theikha and Torishi Weatherfur or Chieftain Xherw.”
Yvlon sat up slightly.
“I’m glad he chose the right side.”
“Mm. Me as well. But he did not see which was the right side at the time. The Plain’s Eye tribe was respected. Xherw was trusted, and Doombringers were in our hearts as a thing to fear and mistrust. All for one child? All for an if that might divide Gnolls and bring the Doom of Albez upon us?”
“What changed his mind?”
Berr the Berserker offered the grass to her until she gingerly blew on it and coughed.
“Me. I wrote to him as he argued with the Honored Gnolls and leaders and told him that I thought the child should not die. You see, I was too far away to be present, so I sent a [Message]. I wrote that it had bothered me and weighed upon my mind that death should come to white fur just for the color of it. He told me he would heed my words, and I told him that if he stood with Plain’s Eye, I would challenge him. I ensured it would be said before the tribe, for all to hear. Outsiders do not know of it.”
Yvlon’s mouth opened. Gnolls didn’t always fight for the [Chieftain]’s title like Goblins. So that was more of just a plain threat than anything else.
“I’m—that was the correct thing to do, Berr.”
“Yes. It was. But that is not the point of this story, Yvlon. Do you know what Perale told me afterwards? He was angry.”
“I imagine he was. You gave him an ultimatum.”
Berr grinned.
“Yes, he asked me why I had done it publicly. He said, ‘could I not have been more discreet?’ Could I not weigh opinions rather than make mine the only one he would heed? And I told him no. He asked me why I had to push, and I told him what I tell you now: it is our responsibility to push.”
“You mean as [Warriors]?”
“No. As high-levels. Does he think Honored Deskie does not push in her way? She did to help Inkarr. We shape our tribes or cities or nations. Our choices matter.”
“Is that…right, Berr? To have all that power?”
He raised his bushy grey brows.
“Right? I do not know if it is right, Yvlon Byres. I only know it is true. Perale says all this all the time, much like your father or the voice in your head, I imagine. He says ‘do not fight those Drakes’ or ‘do not start a fight between our tribes over something so petty’. It is his role to say these things. But you know…if I listened to him, or that voice, nothing would change. Perhaps, sometimes, it is good not to change, but when it is time to push, I do. That is our obligation. Pretending we have none and that there is someone who is better to listen to, that we have no obligation to choose, is the worst thing of all.”
She nodded thoughtfully, thinking of the times she, Yvlon, had made a decision for her team.
“And if we make a mistake, we live with them, Berr?”
He bared his teeth, and there were gaps amidst the yellow canines.
“Exactly. I am a [Berserker]. I have made a million mistakes! Hah, maybe more wrong than right! But that is my wisdom for you. Don’t listen to your [Chieftain] except when he makes sense. Now, one last spar. Show me you won’t fall for the trap of a [Berserker]. First, I kick you in the stomach, then—aha, now you get mad—”
 
——
 
Yvlon awoke clutching her stomach, having kicked all her sheets off her. She sat up, blearily, and saw it was just before dawn.
“Thanks, Berr.”
She splashed some water on her face and slipped out of their rooms to harass the one person whose help she needed. Yvlon thought she’d been quiet, and certainly she could hear Ceria snoring from the hallway, but she’d forgotten Pisces was doubly alert in Chandrar.
She didn’t realize he was there until she sensed a presence and spun—he hastily dematerialized with a pair of [Spies]. They ran as Yvlon retracted the seeker-spikes her arms had emitted.
“What mischief are you up to now, Yvlon?”
“Just testing a theory, Pisces. Go back to sleep.”
The [Necromancer] fixed Yvlon with a long, level stare that made her shift and admire her metal foot, which was shaped like a Gnoll’s foot.
“Ceria and Colth would harass me for weeks if I let you go alone. I shall accompany you, even if it deprives us both of breakfast.”
“Our hero.”
He sniffed, and she smiled as he walked besides her. Pisces glanced at her face and murmured as they walked.
“I know you’re up to something.”
She jumped and gave him an innocent smile; he sniffed again.
“You may have Ceria fooled, but I recognized your behavior. Colth is, alas, still too new to pick up on it.”
“Ceria came to the slightly wrong conclusion thanks to her circlet. And I don’t have a plan, Pisces. Just the makings of one. You can help me test it, then I’ll know if…hello, Great Sage! Excuse me!”
Yvlon began hammering on the door to Great Sage Etrikah’s rooms, and Pisces winced. Yvlon kept banging as he stepped to one side—when the Fox Beastkin [Sage] opened the door, she had a wand aimed at Yvlon.
“Give me one reason why I shouldn’t murder you.”
“I need to use your workrooms. Pisces can help me, I think, so we won’t even bother you. But I need a private space and magic to test my theory on.”
“That still doesn’t answer the murder question.”
“You can’t murder me.”
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen opened another bloodshot eye and read more into that comment than just pure ire warranted. After a moment, she stepped aside.
“This had better be good. [Necromancer], tea.”
Pisces put on a kettle and poured tea as Yvlon outlined what she wanted. Etrikah just snorted.
“Adventurer Pisces can do that. It won’t be anything close to the barriers of the Coliseum of Monarchs. They’re old magic.”
“I just want to practice.”
Yvlon innocently smiled, so Etrikah directed her to a testing area where scorch marks and other residue clung to the reinforced chamber. Pisces waved one hand and created a very acceptable [Barrier of Light] spell.
“Not bad. I was told you only knew necromancy.”
“I’ve, ah, been learning some light-based magic thanks to my spellbook. [Wall of Bone] is superior, but this is a classic ‘barrier’ type spell. Yvlon?”
She punched it. The spray of light-shards made her smile. Then she waved at Pisces.
“I need another. That was just to see if I could break it with my fist.”
The [Necromancer] turned to Etrikah, and she was frying up sausages.
“Warriors. They treat us like we’re just walking spellbooks with mana pools. Don’t look at me. She’s your teammate.”
Yvlon had Pisces create a few more barriers for her to work on as he ate breakfast with Etrikah. Yvlon took a breath and activated her first Skill.
“[Aspect of Silver].”
She didn’t punch the next barriers. She just reached out…and her hand passed through each barrier, shattering them like cheap glass. Pisces glanced up, eyes widening, and Yvlon nodded.
“I thought so. Silver is a dispeller. Not enough to advertise in our arms from House Byres, but pure silver has some effects on magic, doesn’t it?”
“Some, but I wouldn’t carry around a silver mirror in a magical battle. Your Skill clearly amplifies that power. If you think you could withstand every spell Pisces or I could toss at you like that, it would be amusing for me to find out. Even so. What a freakish monster you are.”
Etrikah clarified when Yvlon glared at her.
“For us [Mages]. No one likes someone who can burst through magic like it’s cheap cantrips. The scariest thing for a [Mage] is a charging [Warrior] who can survive anything we throw at them. At least you can’t fly. I’d just [Teleport] you into the sky. Or [Blind] you.”
Yvlon wondered how she was supposed to deal with that. She shrugged and motioned to Pisces.
“More barriers.”
“Fm feating.”
He cast it anyways, and she glanced down at her fist. The right hand flexed as she adjusted the metal hand.
“I didn’t lose any metal hitting the barrier, you know. It doesn’t vaporize. At least, not if you punch it.”
Etrikah’s head rose from her breakfast, and Yvlon swung her hand at the barriers. Pisces’ sleepy, dopey gaze became as sharp as his rapier. After a few more tries, Yvlon sat down at the breakfast table and slid the entire rasher of sausages onto her plate. Etrikah threw up her hands.
She went to get more food for hungry adventurers. Pisces leaned over.
“You’re going to do something crazy.”
“Maybe. Are you going to tell on me?”
He thought about it.
“What are we, four? I…I am fully cognizant that your actions do not always bely a thoughtless belligerence, but a savage intelligence at times, Yvlon.”
“…Thank you?”
Pisces fiddled with his fork as he went on, staring at his plate.
“I mean this only to say that I have been impressed with your composure given recent events. Here we are in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, a superlative example of wealth and grandeur, and you—you keep your composure. You are, frankly, brave, if insanity is a mandatory component of that. And I? I froze up when we were greeted. I hesitate. I rather feel the imposter here.”
She blinked at him. What Pisces was couching in his fanciful language was a true worry. She smiled as she poked some of the sausage links and bit.
“Pisces. You are as silly as they say sometimes.”
“Who says?”
His brows crossed in paranoia, and she laughed at him. Yvlon patted his shoulder.
“Pisces, you drew a sword on the King of Destruction. You are one of the bravest people I know! Aside from Ksmvr, of course.”
He nodded.
“Well, naturally not Ksmvr. But do you mean it?”
He gazed at her, somehow still hungry for reassurance, despite the bell that hung at his waist, despite the man he should be able to see in the mirror. Yvlon swallowed and noticed Etrikah’s tail around the corner of the kitchen.
“I’m not being particularly brave in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It’s just that, well, I’ve been more scared. When I was first in the Arena of Rust and I didn’t know where everyone was. Against the Adult Creler. This isn’t that scary except socially. But mostly, Pisces? I…I don’t care. That’s it.”
She stabbed her plate until it broke in half. Yvlon cursed.
“Tarnish it all. Let me explain.”
“By all means.”
Pisces found a teapot and helped her shove the shards of the plate inside. Yvlon half-smiled at him.
“I know some of it was me being oblivious, but I was willing to do my own thing because…I blame Mars.”
“A reasonable thing to do in all circumstances. But what, particularly, did she do?”
Yvlon flexed her arms, remembering her nonstop beatdown from Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]. She shrugged.
“It wasn’t that she was rude or insane like other Named-ranks. She was actually pretty normal. Kind, even. But she just…was herself. She told me she’d kill me if I ever went against the King of Destruction. Still, Gazi or any of the Seven would say the same thing.”
“Death-General Losve was very insistent on that point.”
“Yes, but even the Death-General was less…confident than Mars was. Her chasing us for miles was pretty insecure.”
“…Insecure?”
Now, the [Necromancer] was struggling, but there was something in how Yvlon was talking that Pisces understood. He put the teapot back as Yvlon flexed her hands.
“Yes. Look at Flos himself. You drew that sword on him, and he was delighted. He might trample over someone, like how he broke Ceria’s circlet, but he did what he wanted. The same at Belchan, remember?”
“I’m not sure Mars or the King of Destruction are people to emulate…”
“Berr, then. Or Saliss. Or Erin herself, Pisces. They do what they think is right. Even if they’re wrong or stupid. They have…what’s the word?”
She hunted for it, and Pisces’ head rose. He had it, of course, the walking dictionary.
“Conviction?”
“Yes.”
The Silver Killer of Izril relaxed, relieved he had named the word at last. She turned to Pisces.
“That’s what I’m trying out. My own way. I know it causes problems, and I apologize. But I have been here before, Pisces. The Court of Silks could wrap us up, and I am not clever enough to beat them at their own game. You might not be, or Colth or even Ceria with her circlet. However, I think if I punch hard enough, I can get through a lot of problems.”
“Until the consequences arrive.”
He wasn’t saying ‘no’, though. Yvlon shrugged.
“That’s why I have metal arms. Let me see how far I can go, and back me up. I would have told you, I think, anyways. Do you want to stop me? Because you can, if you want to.”
He glanced down at his feet. Then up at Yvlon.
“I still maintain that I should like to trade some of my rationality for your bravery. But I do accept your logic.”
She snorted at that.
“I don’t care if I make myself look stupid. I care if we’re in danger, but I did this once. That’s why I’m not doing anything impressive. But you?”
The [Armsmistress] glanced up, then nodded at Pisces’ sword, reforged steel and bone.
“You can be as nervous as you want. When you find a reason to draw that sword, I won’t ever doubt your convictions. You’ll never run away.”
She smiled at him and knew they both remembered the wave of Crelers coming and a [Necromancer] wavering in the grass beyond the Bloodfields. His eyes grew distant, and then he reached out and touched her hand.
Pisces smiled and then sniffed just because it made her smile.
“Well, one tries to keep up with the insanity around here. I think I have some small inkling of your ideations. If what I posit is true…shall we?”
She raised her brows, amused and delighted as he made a show of brushing off his robes.
“[Cleanse]. Dead gods, do you lot not know that spell?”
Etrikah cursed as the two Horns of Hammerad strode for the door. She practically slammed it as Pisces bowed in front of her. But she peeked at them as they strolled down the palace.
“Not running to tell Ceria or Colth?”
Yvlon teased him, and Pisces the Scourge smiled.
“I rather think they’ll get in the way of your plan.”
Oh, they would. The Silver Killer walked down the steps, and her destination sat huge below the palace. It was a fine day. If they timed their steps just right, they could be there just in time for the morning exhibition. Manager Bnirm had planned a huge spectacle in ‘honor’ of the Silver Killer.
She didn’t wish to miss it.
 
——
 
As for Ceria Springwalker, she lay abed until Colth kicked the doors open. She had a wand trained on him in a heartbeat. He just stared at her, eyes bloodshot.
“Yvlon’s missing. So is Pisces. Elena and Delitandra’s group ran out searching for them.”
Ceria stared at him. Then she swore, and they ran around in a panic. Surely, if Pisces was with her—she wouldn’t—
They were going to kill her.
 
——
 
Elena Othonos actually caught Pisces and Yvlon in the Coliseum of Monarchs. It wasn’t hard to find them; the audience was staring at them from their seats, and one of the projections was just fixed on Yvlon Byres.
Manager Bnirm himself was next to the [Announcer]’s booth, smirking at Yvlon as a group of sacrificial criminals [Gladiators] and the Traitorous Three were lined up.
Today’s entertainment would be Lenxiol and the ‘loyalists’ of the arena versus the traitors and criminals and a host of monsters. Whoever slew the most of Chandrar’s varied threats won. Of course, both sides could snipe at each other.
From the way Vitte limped, she hadn’t had a healing potion. But Yvlon Byres’ face was a study in calm.
“There you are. I knew it. Colth’s going insane. What’re you doing?”
Pisces jerked a thumb at them.
“Ah, complications.”
“It’s fine. Elena, go and get Colth and Ceria.”
“Not if you’re going to do something crazy! I need to either be part of it or helping! Otherwise, what’s the point of me?”
Yvlon scowled at Pisces.
“This is what happens when we get followers. You make her go away.”
Pisces gingerly motioned at Elena.
“Shoo. Shoo, it’s dangerous.”
Delitandra imposed herself in front of him, and he backed up before he struck her bosom. She beamed at him and Yvlon, trying not to appear annoyed.
“As your sworn trainers and guides, our input would be invaluable in moments like these, Pisces, Yvlon. You are faced with a classic predicament: an ally held hostage. The Heromakers of Hraace train our charges for this!”
Pisces and Yvlon exchanged helpless glances. Yvlon gazed down at the floor. She could hear the [Announcer]’s voice shouting.
“The morning looks ripe for blood! The very skies are red, but the Silver Killer doesn’t seem to fear her beloved comrades facing the Champion of Monarchs himself! Perhaps she knows something we don’t? Oh, I see that Champion Lenxiol wishes for a word!”
The Stitch-man strode forwards, arms spread wide. There were sixty [Gladiators] present; there had been only twelve, but the moment he’d seen her, the [Manager] had ordered the entire stable of [Gladiators] to show themselves. Sixty versus twenty criminals and three wounded [Gladiators].
“Silver Killer. It pains me, all these little tricks. We are warriors. I only wish we had met in earnest, but alas, Manager Bnirm doesn’t wish either of us to be wounded in true combat.”
There were boos as he threw the [Manager] under the wagon and a warning scowl from the Stitch-man, but Lenxiol was basking in the attention.
“I hope not to do great damage to your friends, but with such odds, how can one such as I hold back? Do you have an appeal or counteroffer to the morning’s tragedy, Silver Killer?”
This time, they were ready for her, so a speaking stone on a little satin pillow came for her. Yvlon Byres seized it and saw Vitte, Thexca, and Mectail gazing up at her.
Was Vitte trying to mouth at her to ‘get lost’? Thexca was tilting her head back and forth, confused, and Mectail? He just bowed to her, saluting her with that clasped pair of fists. She bowed to him, then spoke.
Yvlon rested her foot on the edge of the balcony she stood on, and then it came back to her. The [Gladiator]’s refrain. Her hair blew in the wind; she glared at Delitandra, who was fanning a breeze up with her cohort.
“Champion of Monarchs. Good morning. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my start in the Arena of Rust in Nerrhavia’s Fallen…”
His face went slack, then annoyed as laughter and cheering sprang up around the coliseum. Pisces covered a smile, and Yvlon went on, the hint of a smile on her own face.
“…and you saw what I did to the Champion of Rust. The last time I was here, you and I never crossed because I had my team to find. This time, you have threatened my friends, who did nothing wrong but stand by my side. Except for Vitte—she wasn’t even at Pomle!”
She pointed down at the Fox Beastkin dramatically, and the [Gladiator] spread her hands.
“What the hell.”
Yvlon continued, her eyes locked on the Champion of Monarchs.
“I do not respect Manager Bnirm’s ploys, Champion Lenxiol. But nor do I respect you. If you had any courage, you would have challenged me yesterday. Instead, you need sixty [Gladiators] for backup against a bunch of captive [Gladiators] and three wounded veterans. You are a coward. Once again, I challenge you.”
Then there was an oooh—and silence. Lenxiol’s eyes were narrow slits of murder now. Slowly, he glanced up at Bnirm; the [Manager] stuck his thumb down expressively.
“I’m afraid you do not decide matters, Silver Killer. Not even Queen Yisame can dictate the will of the Coliseum of Monarchs.”
Yvlon Byres nodded. She clenched the speaking stone tight in her grip. This had better work…she had practiced, she had made plans. Now? She searched for Pisces, but he had vanished. Yvlon smiled. Then she pointed dramatically.
“In that case, so be it. If you are too cowardly to fight me alone, then I don’t challenge you, Lenxiol. I challenge you.”
She was pointing at Manager Bnirm. To his credit, he played off the shock with an exaggerated gasp. Like this was part of the script.
She noticed the number of guards around him had sextupled in the last few minutes. They were all armed, ready. In case someone should try to charge at him—no fools, these. She grinned.
“I challenge the Coliseum of Monarchs. Flee me or die.”
She didn’t have any good line prepared, so she just ended with that. Her metal hands crushed the speaking stone to dust, and then she tensed.
“Wait, she’s not going to—Yvlon, no, no!”
Elena realized what she was doing, and Delitandra leapt, but too late. Yvlon launched herself through the air a second time, straight into the center of the coliseum.
Over upturned heads, open mouths. Even the Champion of Monarchs was open-mouthed in that moment of the air rushing around her, time crawling by. Then she saw his mouth close, and he covered his eyes and shook his head.
The barriers. Yvlon saw them very faintly glowing in the morning air. Her heart was in her chest as she fell, a silver meteor. Past the Truestone Golem sitting next to the empty seat she’d reserved. Yvlon’s head turned, and she grinned as she fell.
Then she said—
“[Aspect of Silver].”
Her body changed to that beautiful, reflective metal, and for a moment, the Truestone Golem saw a vision of the future. The woman of metal was laughing as she fell, hair streaming behind her.
She hit the barriers of the Coliseum of Monarchs—
—and plunged straight through. Every ancient shield vanished without a sound, the reinforced, layered magic blinking out of existence.
Sirens began to scream alarms. Directing the audience to flee, but it was too late. She landed in a plume of dust, and when she stood, the Silver Killer charged. Screaming at the gladiators of the Coliseum of Monarchs and the frozen Champion of Monarchs.
One versus everyone. The Silver Killer of Izril versus everything.
She was laughing.

10.50 Y (2025-11-16)

It was crass, but he had the class.
You would never know his name; he was just a man who lived in a city of important people that theoretically included himself. But he had never aspired to, well, anything.
He was a Terland, but if you heard ‘Lord Xitegen’ or ‘Ulva and Petra Terland’, the famous [Twin Virtues of House Terland], or even ‘That Lord/Lady Who Definitely Has Sex With Golems’—you were barking up the wrong tree.
His name was Molen Terland, and he was a [Lord] whose passions in life included eating, visiting brothels in First Landing, having a drink with what associates he had, and visiting the Adventure Rooms. But not in any excess like Lord Calidus, that legend of debauchery.
Molen had a liver problem; his [Healer] told him to drink less and maybe go for walks more. He couldn’t drink a [Sailor] under the table and would be rather dismayed at the lowborn company. He was a man who remembered the Goblin King, who could not? But he would never claim he had fought or wanted more such events in his lifetime.
He was…well, a Level 8 [Lord]. And thirty-nine years old. He didn’t even level as a [Lord] like his peers due to their obsessions with Golems. He thought they were helpful, and, uh…that was it. Gold came in monthly, and he spent it in First Landing. Occasionally voted on lesser measures if someone pestered him about it.
Molen Terland had a new class this year. It was Level 23. One of the fastest levelling speeds for a noble in recorded history; he hadn’t told Great Aunt Ulva about it. He was afraid of what she might say. This man who had no passions, even for his hobbies in life, shot out of his bed where he’d been flirting with some brie cheese and juice for breakfast. He, who did not go on healthy walks, ran.
He ran, and the [Servants] whirled in alarm as he shouted—he, who hadn’t raised his voice for love or rage in two decades.
“The television! Get me a [Message] scroll and—”
He flung himself into the room where a gigantic scrying mirror had been installed. The [Avid Watcher], Level 23, felt his Skill pulsing in his head like a [Dangersense]. All alarms blaring.
[Television: Sense Entertainment]. It was calibrated to what made the man happy. So not news like the King of Destruction winning another battle, but it went off if he should see the newest ring-match in Pomle or he was missing a really good Drassi segment.
Now, it howled. And he howled as he wrote furiously.
 
(User ‘Molen’ has entered the group chat — “Viewers of Wistram News Network, Group Chat”. 114 Users present. Please be advised this is an experimental feature and subject to delays or interruptions in service.)
Slimy_Snark: I’m just writing the facts. Sir Relz is right, it’s disgusting.
Mattiah Reinluc: Your name, sir, is as objectionable as your dialogue. I wish once again to complain to the [Mages] overseeing this affair for gross speciesism. As well as your name, which I believe is not your true one.
Molen: Something’s happening! I can sense it!
Slimy_Snark: Oh hey, Molen. What’s happening?
Molen: I can sense it with my Skill! Which channel?
 
He was flipping between them nonstop, desperate to see…but none of them were the right ones. The chat, who knew Molen by name and was more familiar to him than most of his family—despite this chat having only existed for about two months—was intrigued. Many had a [Watcher] or [Viewer] class, and they knew he was high-level…for this group.
 
Molen: Is it not on the news? It’s like when I saw the war in Pomle, or the battle at sea. But far, far greater.
Slimy_Snark: Oh dead gods, another disaster?
Gardener V: Is it the inn? Some tragedy? Another Goblin King?
Slimy_Snark: Wrongwrongwrong. Didn’t happen, all a hoax.
Wistram Magus (Admin): Please keep conversations about ‘Goblin King’ phenomena or the moons out of this channel, Gardener V. You have been issued a warning (1 of 3 for today). Wistram does not verify any claims of Goblin Kings or such matters, and messaging about recent events involving Goblins has been relegated to “Wartime Discussions — Group Chat, 17+ ages only” for users’ sensibilities.
Molen: I don’t…think so. It wouldn’t trigger my Skill otherwise.
Gardener V: I apologize, so it’s not anything on the news right now?
Mattiah Reinluc: I have been observing the news all morning. Nothing is happening on any channel, sir. Is this another ‘prank’? I find it not amusing.
Molen: I swear it’s not. Someone check, please?
 
Silence. But his actions, inadvertently or not, caused the bored [Mage] overseeing the chatroom to sit up at their own desk in Wistram Academy. The young [Magus] sipped at a cup of coffee, then turned.
“[Diviner] Eileen? Is there an event going on on the other news channels that we might not be picking up? Someone with a Skill claims something is going on.”
The [Diviner] wasn’t exactly having a thrilling time coordinating the news channels. But she glanced at the words on the scroll, shrugged, and waved her wand.
“We have scrying orbs monitoring the other news channels. I didn’t see anything, and there’s someone from Channel 1 News who does that nonstop. I can ask them.”
She sent a [Message] off as she flicked through other continents’ channels with her wand. She tapped the orb in front of them, and they saw Terandrian ballroom dancing, a battle against monsters in the Dyed Lands…
“Oh, that’s nasty. Is that…?”
“No, it sounds bigger. What about Chandrar? The seas? Rhir?”
Chandrar merely revealed Wonders of Nerrhavia doing a showcase on Djinni building a city. The [Diviner] shrugged as she cycled the news channels one more time. She had just tapped on ‘Wonders of Nerrhavia’ when the broadcast shifted. The [News Anchor] at the desk stopped monologuing from their script.
“Exalted viewers, I apologize for the—what? What? The Silver Killer has just leapt into the Coliseum of Monarchs! She’s killing everything? Do we have a—”
The Silver Killer? The [Diviner] and [Message Mage] exchanged one look, and then they recognized that name. The Horns of Hammerad. WNN had done a little news piece on Channel 1 News yesterday showing her smacking into the barrier spell like a bug. It had been part of an ‘amusing scenes’ compilat—
The [News Anchor] had leapt to her feet.
“I’m twenty-five minutes away from the Coliseum! I can see it out my window—what do you mean alone?”
She whirled as an image flashed onto screen. It was Yvlon Byres, a recording from the Coliseum of Monarchs, which of course had full broadcasting on scrying orbs under Manager Bnirm. Someone had helpfully begun with the moment the match had been about to start.
“Jurdic. Get me Sir Relz or Drassi right now. I’m overriding the broadcast with Wonders of Nerrhavia until we can get our own feed.”
The [Diviner] made an immediate judgement call. The apprentice scrambled for a [Message] spell as Molen’s scrying orb lit up and an unfamiliar channel began to play. He gasped and saw her.
Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer of Izril. The video was on a delay, so it began with her accepting a speaking stone and peering down into the Coliseum of Monarchs. He knew her, of course.
The Horns of Hammerad. One of his favorite teams…ever. The [Lord] leaned forwards, breathless, as his chat-scroll lit up with messages proclaiming he was right.
 
Slimy_Snark: Oh shit, it’s her. The rabid metal dog of Izril!
Gardener V: Yvlon! I have to tell my husband and everyone else!
Mattiah Reinluc: Once again, Slimy_Snark displays his or her animosity towards Humans and blatant speciesism.
Ciminec, [Trader]: I’m telling everyone on the street! This is huge! Wait, what is she doing? Didn’t she hit the barriers yesterday?
LoveHeer: Step on my face metal queen.
Gardener V: What.
Molen: She’s going to fight. Where’s Drassi and Sir Relz? Why aren’t they covering this?
Slimy_Snark: Don’t be stupid. There are dozens of [Gladiators], and that Champion of Monarchs is higher-level than she is. There’s probably hundreds of [Guards]. Even she’s not that dumb.
 
Molen was too busy watching to write how stupid Slimy_Snark was. He sensed the [Servants] watching, and someone ran out to spread the news to his friends in First Landing. And he’d called it! He wondered if everyone was watching. Surely…who wouldn’t?
 
——
 
Lord Yitton Byres was sitting at a meeting of the Bloodhunters of Izril somewhat stiffly and uncomfortably. It was an odd mix of commonfolk and nobles, and they were rather intense.
House Byres was providing arms and ammunition at a slight discount to its best clients who ate up all it could manufacture, and as such, they had very close relations. Close enough for Lord Yitton to be in almost daily contact with his associates and lend them space on House Byres land to operate. They paid exceptionally well, and he believed in their cause. But the coin was important. Especially since all the funds needed to rebuild House Byres and hire guards against future sabotage would not come cheap.
Things were going well despite all the terrible attacks on his House. His relationship with Emperor Laken? Strained. But the [Emperor] who was so reasonable in many ways had blindspots when it came to Goblins and this.
If Yvlon did what was reasonable and Ylawes’ expedition went well…Lord Yitton was coughing.
“I believe those are Lord Llendal’s lands. If any hunting were taking place, the [Lord] might object.”
Everyone at the round table turned to him, and he shifted uncomfortably. Lord Yitton kept bringing up nobles or cities whose lands were private as the Bloodhunters discussed pursuing their foes. He felt this was necessary, but it was an uncomfortable position to be in.
“Surely he wouldn’t object if we requested permission. What does he have to hide?”
A [Knight] glowered and got a chorus of agreement. Delanay d’Artien smoothly interjected.
“What Lord Byres means is that we should send a message to avoid more incidents.”
“Of course then.”
Yitton sat back and was relieved by Delanay’s nod. Another village then. The last few hunts had been—bloody. But no one was discussing the possibility they’d made mistakes; they had Skills.
Even so, that many Vampires killed…there were more than he’d thought. Far, far more. And history told him how dangerous this scourge was, but he had sensed discomfort in some of his peers who’d written him to ask about his knowledge of the threat. If you didn’t know they were bloodsucking monsters, it seemed like ordinary civilians were being cut down.
A terrible misconception that had to be dispelled. Though Lord Yitton was firm: House Byres was aiding the Bloodhunters in material and some [Armsmen], but it was concerned with the production of Silversteel armaments which were being bought up. He felt this was the best position to take.
The [Lord] was hesitating over the map and about to bring up the question of budgets again—the Bloodhunters were financed by several private donor groups and House d’Artien—but they had ordered more weapons. He was happy to take their gold—if they had enough. The issue of enough arms and people to hold them had made Delanay turn to Terandria, but if they wanted bases and more than this roving force…
He was saved from having an emotional back-and-forth with the passionate group at the table when Shallel interrupted the gathering.
“Yitton. I hate to interrupt, but the news…”
“Yes, Shallel? I apologize, all.”
He rose, and she wore a familiar expression of dismay and concern. His heart tightened before she spoke.
“It’s Yvlon. She’s on the news. A [Lady] from First Landing I know told me…”
“Yvlon? What has she done now?”
He’d heard of some kind of incident in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but she was a Gold-rank adventurer. Ylawes was far more controlled than Yvlon, but her fame had led to plenty of people recognizing his House’s name recently. Even if she hadn’t written a reply to his letters…was she not getting them?
Shallel had a scrying orb from Wistram in her hands. Delanay half-turned in his seat as even the Bloodhunters stirred.
“The Silver Killer, Lord Byres? Your daughter would be an ideal ally here. What does Chandrar have to offer her team besides dust and war?”
There was a laugh as one of the Order of Clairei Fields jested. Yitton hadn’t actually tendered their offer to Yvlon yet—he hesitated, but showed the scrying orb around.
“Some adventure, I trust. Or an altercation caught on scrying orb. There seems to be too many of them. They can capture one in a bad light.”
Oh, of course. The Bloodhunters didn’t like them being so common either. As for her nickname…Yitton frowned as he peered at the scrying orb.
Silver Killer was entirely unbefitting of Yvlon. He’d thought it was just a passing nickname, and she’d sworn it was a mistake. He was explaining that to the table as he stared at Yvlon. She was in some kind of coliseum…and there were Stitch-folk everywhere. Such a surreal thing to see so many non-Humans about. Everything, from their skin tones to the very material this coliseum was made of, was foreign and exotic to Yitton. But what was she doing…?
Nothing that would disgrace House Byres, he was sure. His eyes widened as Yvlon Byres leapt and crashed through a barrier of magic. When she landed, his eyes found a metal face appearing out of a cloud of dust.
“Yvlon?”
Shallel was watching too as the Bloodhunters sat up. Yitton Byres remembered his well-mannered daughter, Ylawes’ little shadow, standing politely to attention and speaking with her good graces—
A screaming woman with a face of silver charged out of the sand. Two blades for arms. She leapt on a [Gladiator] who fled her, yelling, and chopped down. Then spun, blood coating her—
“Yvlon?”
She was laughing. Lord Yitton Byres’ eyes widened, and he sat like he’d been turned to stone. Where had his good daughter gone? He saw a stranger on the scrying orb.
A woman of metal, savage and undisciplined. Had she forgotten who she was?
 
——
 
It was news spreading across the world. As ever. The King of Destruction didn’t halt his armies for the Horns of Hammerad at first.
“Bah. I’m getting tired of competing with a Gold-rank team for attention! What could she possibly be doing that matters more than a siege of one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s fortresses?”
He shouted as he held a shield up, watching the ladders rising across one of the towers that his people were besieging. After a few seconds, Flos Reimarch rubbed at his face with his free hand.
“…Show me the scrying orb. Fate would laugh at my words.”
He took one look at the scrying orb, then he grinned. The King of Destruction glanced at the fortress under siege, and his eyes found a figure on the walls dismantling the garrison as they tried to hold her back.
“Oho. Someone fetch me Mars.”
 
——
 
The Wild Wastes Tribe was one of the last groups to notice. Mostly because they didn’t have many scrying orbs and were already on the move during the morning. They were loping along when one of the [Shamans] howled. Honored Berr and his [Berserkers] at the head of the group didn’t even glance back—until a Gnoll raced over.
“Berr! Honored Berr! Your disciple is on the news!”
When Berr the Berserker turned and saw a familiar woman on the scrying orb, he did not freeze, curse, or grow excited.
He merely smiled and raised a paw.
“We halt then!”
Chieftain Perale would have objected, but he knew the old [Berserker]’s ways. In a trice, Berr had flopped down, and the Gnolls around him did likewise. They broke out food and blankets, and he called for a drink. His disciples, [Beserkers] and [Barbarians] and [Warriors] all, gathered around. Berr ordered them to gather closer to the scrying orb they sat in a circle around, crowding and pushing to see.
“Come and see, you young ones! Nerrhavia’s Fallen, hrm? Let’s see what my cute little disciple is up to now. She’s keeping her temper.”
He nodded, pleased, as the image of Yvlon Byres appeared on-screen, charging across the coliseum floor. Arrows were flying down around her, and she leapt at another [Gladiator], who backed up, whirling two blades, and whose face suggested he had come face-to-face with a ravening bear.
One of the younger Gnolls tilted his head and hesitated.
“…She’s attacking an entire coliseum, Berr.”
“Ah, but very deliberately. You can tell she hasn’t activated her Skill yet.”
An arm flew past the scrying orb, and it zoomed out to show panicked [Guards] racing around from above, streaming into the ground floor where it seemed Manager Bnirm was unleashing everything to try and slow her down. Monsters, [Gladiators], and the security. Berr nodded, arms folded, pleased.
“Oh, and the noisy Drake is on the scrying orb.”
He saw the image shift, and Sir Relz and Drassi were fighting.
“This is Sir Relz, breaking news—”
“This is my segment! My friends, my team! Drassi, Channel 2 news—”
They shoved at each other as Berr chuckled. Then he had an idea.
“Is there a Drake city nearby with [Mages]? Someone run to one and find out. We should…hrm, what’s the word? Advertise, yes? Tell them she is Berr the Berserker’s apprentice.”
He pointed at the scrying orb as more blood flew. Chieftain Perale opened his mouth.
“Is that the best advertisement the Wild Wastes tribe needs or wants, Berr?”
The Gnoll gave Perale an innocent expression as he glanced at the scrying orb.
“It seems very honest to me, yes?”
He was relaxed, but Chieftain Perale leaned over and whispered as he saw how many warriors were fighting the one lone woman. A few [Gladiators] had taken her side, but arrows were landing about her, bouncing off her metal skin, and he saw magic licking downwards in a plume of flames.
The woman with her metal skin was ignoring it all, but such Skills would not last forever, Perale knew.
“Will she be okay, Berr? Against so many? She is not your level.”
“No. And I would not take on so many alone and come out unscathed. Or even live, necessarily. Dodging is hard, yes?”
“Then—”
Perale grew worried, for the Horns were friends of the Gnolls. But Berr just rested his chin on one paw, watching with calm eyes.
“She is a very delightful child I wish I could have raised longer. Angry…all my disciples are. But no fool. She has a plan, I hope. If not, I have taught her wrong. We watch.”
His eyes followed Yvlon Byres as the [Aspect of Silver] vanished. And then she was ‘merely’ a woman with blood on her cheeks, helmetless, as she charged at a group of [Guards] with her arms exploding into deadly pincushions of metal. Berr added softly.
“Besides. She is with her team. She does not fight alone.”
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker and Colthei didn’t know where Yvlon was. Oh, they suspected, but they didn’t know until they were halfway out of the palace and heard the roar of sound from the Coliseum.
“Oh dead gods. Did she try and take Bnirm hostage or something?”
Colth paled. He’d thought Yvlon had been acting wild of late—well, she’d nearly attacked King Perric of Medain, but that was understandable given the man himself. Manager Bnirm was no easier to stomach, but this was beyond crazy. She hadn’t even told them!
Because they would have stopped her, obviously. Ceria just cast an [Ice Floor] spell and began sliding down the steps. Colth followed her as she shot down—her eyes were fixed on the distant coliseum.
“We’re going in.”
“If she’s started something, I’m going to kill—”
“Colth, shut up and get ready. We’re going in cold.”
She shouted at him, and he realized she was taking this as seriously as he was. Ceria drew her wand. Then cursed.
There were vast crowds around the Coliseum of Monarchs. People going in—as well as some fleeing? They clogged the many entrances.
“We need a route in now. She’s going to be killed if she’s up against that Champion of Monarchs! Why didn’t she…? She’s not crazy. So what am I missing?”
She leapt off the [Ice Floor] spell as Colth ran past her, trying to use his Skills to spot an entrance. But the entire damn arena was packed; Stitch-folk knew what was happening and he saw [Mages] from Wistram pushing to try and get in. Then Colth passed by a [Bard] who was scratching at his head, appearing ruefully amused.
“So that’s what she meant. The price of a seat.”
Barelle the Bard glanced up as Colth stumbled. Ceria spotted the [Bard] and skidded to a stop.
“Hey, you’re that guy.”
“Captain Springwalker. Colthei. If you’re trying to get in, the scrum is virtually impenetrable. My Skills don’t work if the audience is this packed, and I am loath to play my harp to get people out of the way.”
He nodded to them and gestured at the coliseum. Colth bared his teeth desperately.
“Sir Barelle! Would you care to join us for a little affray? We could use some backup—”
Especially if what I think is going on in there is happening. How the hell did she bypass the barriers? If she didn’t, we have hostages below. Wait, her [Aspect of Silver] is a magic-killer. Would she even survive impact with that tier of spell?
Barelle lifted a hand, eyes flickering as he turned to Ceria.
“Excuse me, but I must decline. I am just an observer.”
“Fine, great. Then get out of our way, old man—Colth, get me an entrance or I’m firing [Ice Lances] through the least-crowded entrance.”
That was a blood-chilling statement. Colth turned to Ceria and feared she was serious. Her eyes were glowing. She knew…Barelle’s eyes fixed on Ceria as his own expression turned cold. Colth’s head whirled around.
[Supporter] Skills…he borrowed from a [Problem Solver] he’d once met.
[Speculation: Logical Analysis]! How did they enter the Coliseum of Monarchs? His mind presented a few options.
Sewers. Too slow. Possibly warded.
Crowd control at the gates? So many bodies. Perhaps a [Fear] Skill or Ceria could [Ice Floor] them, but he bet the sheer press of bodies was damned annoying.
Teleportation wouldn’t work into this area…his eyes flickered.
“The walls. We could go over the walls.”
Ceria’s head rose as she inspected the tall walls of the Coliseum of Monarchs. She grunted as she eyed the people fighting to get in or out.
“We don’t jump like Ksmvr. I could probably use [Ice Wall] to create ledges, but—”
“I have jumping Skills. Don’t kill anyone.”
Grimly, Ceria pointed, and a wall of ice shot out horizontally from the side of the coliseum. The beige, weathered stone was occupied by frozen ice that created a platform ten feet off the ground. Another one shot out, twenty feet up—steps for a half-Giant to climb. As she cast, Colth glanced around.
Maybe I could make a ladder for her. He wished she just knew [Levitation]; he might have the ability to jump with her in his arms, but his Skills weren’t unlimited.
A solution came to him as he saw someone running their way. A familiar Fox Beastkin girl he’d identified from yesterday…
“Zirre, yes?”
“Yes! My sister’s in there! Wh-what’s going on? They said the Horns of Hammerad were in the coliseum, but you’re out here?”
She held up a hand as Ceria pointed a glowing finger at her; when Ceria realized who it was, the half-Elf blinked.
“You’re that fox-kid that Yvlon saved, right? We need a way in. Wait…don’t you know gravity magic?”
“Me? Yes, a bit—”
Ceria’s eyes lit up.
“Excellent. Start casting. We’re going up and over!”
She pointed, and Zirre whirled, confused, then gasped.
“Up that? Are you crazy?”
“We’re the sane ones in our team. Cast or just show me how and I’ll copy the spell!”
Ceria snapped at her. Zirre only hesitated a moment, then began to cast.
“[Reduce Gravity]—!”
The three ran for the first platform as people outside turned and saw the two Horns of Hammerad leap up into the air. Ceria landed on the ice and nearly slipped; Colth used [Anchor Boots] and caught her.
“Don’t fall.”
“Damn ice. Alright, go—”
A second leap carried them higher as people tried to climb onto the platform below. It shattered into pieces as Ceria pointed down, and Zirre squeaked as they landed twenty feet up. Then jumped. Thirty…
Agonizingly slow. Colth heard the screams from within but knew it had only been minutes. Enough time for a lot of combat—he glanced down and saw something watching them.
 
——
 
Barelle the Bard had captured the entire, desperate interplay of ideas and problem-solving by Yvlon’s teammates. As he watched the trio jump higher, the [Bard] mused to himself.
“They are no doubt adventurers. But how does one make a song about this?”
If you had to do it, it would have to be a ballad encompassing more than this moment. Which required the full story. He frowned, took a step—
—Appeared next to Cognita Truestone in the empty seats, and took in the scene inside the Coliseum of Monarchs. She turned; she had a bucket of popcorn in her hands.
“You are late, Barelle.”
The [Bard] glanced around and raised his brows at her. He’d lied to Colthei; it was just not expedient for him to enter the fighting. This was their adventure. They didn’t need his help. The [Bard] touched the harp at his back as his other hand flicked out his journal, and he made grudging notes.
“Merely admiring youth, Cognita. The other Horns are on their way. Did she smash through the coliseum’s barriers? All of them?”
“Something close to that, yes.”
The Truestone Golem’s eyes were unsurprised by any of this; she had to understand and be processing this battle at speeds he could not comprehend. Yet her eyes found the woman in the center of the arena.
Barelle glanced at [Archers] lining up on the balconies, drawing a bead on Yvlon. He had seen this too. His hand twitched towards his sword, and Cognita put a hand on his stomach as he unconsciously began to rise.
“Cognita—”
“She made me a bet. We will watch.”
The Truestone Golem saw Barelle waver, then sit, aware of how easy it would still be for him to move. Cognita added after a moment.
“Besides. You are not in possession of all of the facts.”
She glanced at a scrying spell as it passed over the Coliseum of Monarchs. It began to focus on her, and because it annoyed her, she dispelled it. Her eyes gazed into the [Scrying] spell and saw a hundred thousand outlets.
Ylawes Byres could not see his sister, trapped in the New Lands as he was. But her family was watching.
All of them.
 
——
 
A few moments before Yvlon Byres stormed the coliseum and got on the news, Ysara Byres had been arguing with Qwera.
The Silver Merchant and the Golden Gnoll, two successful businesswomen with a rather metallic theme. They’d known each other before recent events of course, but their association with the inn and Mrsha had thrown them together.
Given their shared interests and the unpredictable state of the world, it was almost inevitable what had happened next. The oldest Byres daughter and the secret Doombearer were sitting in a room in an inn that Qwera had rented.
Ysara was more used to caravan life, but Qwera liked her amenities. She was more of a big-city performer with her entire network; Ysara was still a one-caravan woman who did riskier, more remote deliveries like the Bloodfields run. She knew alchemy and weapons; Qwera did more general and entertainment goods.
Right now, they were sitting around a contract on the table and brainstorming. Qwera put a copy of a list before Ysara.
“I had a few [Trendsetters] and experts come up with some names for us. I even paid for a Hraacian consultation. So—the best name I found was Heartmetal Industries. What, you don’t like it?”
Ysara had pulled a face. She was no stranger to odd bedfellows—it was one of the reasons why she never went home. But this was a business proposition, not romance or desperation.
“It sounds like we’re smithing metals. I’m all for combining the names, but why that?”
The Golden Gnoll consulted her list.
“According to the expert, it’s symbolism. ‘Heartmetal’ denotes a fantastical magical metal, and ‘industries’ sounds weird, but it’ll signal to certain groups we’re advanced. Modern.”
“Oh, all the ones chasing children around. I still don’t like it. Let’s be more honest. What’s wrong with Silvergold Enterprise?”
That was on the list, and Qwera shuddered.
“It’s so boring. Moon Aurum Caravans?”
“I get ‘Aurum’, but silver doesn’t equate to the moon. How about ‘Mystic Metal Caravans’?”
“I’m not advertising us like [Traders]. We’re combining our businesses for bigger things, Ysara. You can be the woman who runs about, but I’m buying property and warehouses.”
The Gnoll woman was waggling a claw at Ysara, and the Human [Merchant] was rubbing at her brows. They got along, and they didn’t need to be kissing-friends to make this work, but this might be the hardest battle they had to fight.
…Well, Ysara would fight it all day. It beat the things they couldn’t talk about because it hurt Qwera too much. Like Tesy, or Vetn, who was still missing. The Golden Gnoll still glittered, but she looked thinner. She hadn’t been eating or sleeping well, and this argument was doing a bit for her.
Even so, it crept out. There was a moment as Qwera drew breath when her eyes flickered. Then she stared down at the list of names and spoke one not on the list.
“What about…‘Second Chances’? Everyone should have at least one of those. At least one.”
Ysara hesitated.
“Second Chance Caravans? It has a ring to it…”
Qwera didn’t respond, and Ysara bit her lip. Thus, she was relieved when the door burst open and one of Qwera’s helpers thrust a scrying orb into the room. Ysara sat up.
“Yvlon’s doing what?”
All thoughts of the company name were thrown out the window as Qwera brushed aside the papers, and Ysara saw her sister. Her eyes widened as she saw Yvlon fighting in the middle of a Chandrarian arena.
“Yvlon…”
She was bareheaded and running down Stitch-people. What was she doing? Qwera whistled.
“Your sister’s a Gold-rank adventurer to the marrow.”
“She’s doing it all wrong. No—even if she’s Gold-rank, she knows better than to do this!”
Ysara stood up in agitation, hand on her own sword hilt. Qwera raised her paws.
“Calm down, Ysara. We can’t do anything. I’m positive this recording’s on delay anyways. What’s wrong? She’s got them running scared.”
Ysara snapped back.
“For now—she doesn’t even have a helmet on! I don’t care if she’s Gold-rank, no one but a fool runs around without one.”
“She has that metal Skill—wait, it’s worn off.”
Qwera sat up, fur rising as she saw Yvlon was indeed a lone woman beset by all sides. Ysara’s hairs rose as well as she saw arrows sprouting from the sand in Yvlon’s wake. Fired from above.
Ysara had learned how to cut arrows in midair, but it wasn’t a trick she would have relied on in combat, even if she had a [Swordswoman] class. Even with armor on, Yvlon was courting madness.
Not least—there was a high-level [Warrior] there. The Champion of Monarchs moved like a master of some kind. His steps were too carrying, his footwork too fast. He flipped a spear up, hurled it, and it nearly hit Yvlon. Her head moved out of the way, and Ysara’s heart caught in her throat.
One millisecond’s hesitation and Yvlon would have lost her head. She kept chasing the Stitch-man as he retreated, but he was baiting her, easily able to outrun her on the sands.
He’s got her on movement Skills, he’s got throwing Skills, and he looks strong. What is she doing?
As if Yvlon sensed she wouldn’t catch him, she pivoted left, sprinting at a [Gladiator] and a group of [Guards] who’d emerged from some of the gates. Qwera winced as a censored blur obscured the brief combat a second too late.
“Dead gods. Mrsha talked about the Horns like they were friendly, silly adventurers. That’s your sister, Ysara? No wonder Mrsha turned out like she did.”
She’d torn apart the entire group so fast Ysara couldn’t believe it. The [Gladiator] had tried to ward her off with a trident; Yvlon’s metal arm had morphed into a swordcatcher’s blade, which had stretched out, blocking the trident. And her other arm had elongated and chopped until she was amidst them, arms swinging.
They might be alive since they were Stitch-folk, but there were arms and legs and blood on the ground as she ran on.
“We apologize for the blood, ladies and gentlemen—oh, Ancestors, are they dead?”
Sir Relz was commentating as Drassi spoke over him.
“They might be alive. Why is she doing this? Yvlon, duck!”
A [Fireball] touched down, and the smoke and dust cleared only to show Yvlon had escaped the blast. More spells falling. Ysara whispered.
“They have height on her. They’re completely encircling the arena, and reinforcements are coming in from all sides. She was trained better than this.”
They hadn’t studied military strategy, but anyone could see this was a killing field. Yvlon had seemed far, far more independent and freer when they’d met last, but this? Ysara’s hand was so tight on the hilt of her sword she was in danger of tearing her skin. Qwera glanced at her and then at the scrying orb with wariness.
She had lost one of her own loved ones recently. Tesy…she made to block the scrying orb, second-guessed herself, then sat tensely. The Golden Gnoll glanced around, as if trying to make the camera shift angles. She asked the question everyone else was thinking.
“Where is her team?”
 
——
 
Pisces wasn’t fighting. Those first eight minutes of chaos, he stood, [Invisible] to all. People rushed past him; [Guards] taking aim below, members of the crowd fleeing or trying to get better angles, and he…
Well, he wasn’t as ashamed as he might have been in ordinary circumstances. There Yvlon was, tearing through the ground floor of the Coliseum of Monarchs, and he wasn’t helping her.
He had good reasons why, of course. All very tactical, but it still made his stomach twist. Still. He was one [Necromancer], and he felt she had underestimated how many [Guards] the coliseum held.
To wrangle magical beasts or deal with [Gladiators] or unruly captives? There had to be hundreds, and Manager Bnirm was calling on all of them now.
He was, in fact, headed below, screaming orders into a speaking stone.
“Kill the Silver Killer! If she survives, I’ll have her imprisoned, but just stop her!”
He was furious. Nor was he worried about repercussions from the [Queen]; the [Manager] snarled at one of the anxious people around him when they mentioned Yisame’s name.
“Damn the [Queen] and her spoiled foreign pets! This is my coliseum! What is Lenxiol doing?”
“Avoiding her. He’s missed both spears—”
“He outlevels her! Put more [Archers] above and shoot her!”
In truth, Pisces hardly blamed the Stitch-man for choosing a ranged battle. Lenxiol seemed rather attached to his health, which Pisces could relate to. But mostly…it was Yvlon.
If she came at him, Pisces would run, even if he had three dozen Skeleton Champions in front of him. In close-combat, he wondered if even a Named-rank adventurer like Eldertuin would come out ahead. Once Yvlon grabbed you, she was both insanely strong, would never back down, and her arms were very…pokey.
Pisces strode after Bnirm as the man ran down the sloping hallways towards the ground floor. He was aware each passing moment left Yvlon alone, but again—
He could not act without thought. Indeed, Pisces had to keep his steps clear of a [Mage] who was holding a glowing wand aloft.
“Where’s the other one? The [Necromancer]?”
Bnirm asked as he panted, sweating; his physique was clearly all cloth. One of his bodyguard answered, glancing around.
“We don’t know, Manager. We saw the others the Silver Killer was with, but he vanished…”
“I have an [Invisibility Purge] spell at eighteen feet, Manager! And I have [See Invisibility]! If he is about, I will know!”
The [Mage] with the pulsing wand insisted. They cast around, and Pisces stepped behind one of the [Bodyguards] again. The [Mage] had helpfully repeated how far their [Invisibility Purge] spell’s radius was several times. And the thing about [See Invisibility] was that it only worked if your line of sight actually, well, saw said [Invisible] person. A [Flash Step] carried Pisces smoothly backwards around a corner before he saw the [Mage] glance ahead.
“Is she not dead yet?”
Bnirm asked as they reached the first floor, which let him stride out onto a balcony overlooking the fighting below. The screaming and shouting outside let Pisces hear the answer to that.
“Keep her away! Get back—she’s coming at—”
“Yvlon! Get to cover!”
“Someone call for reinforcements! Shoot her, you blind-as-bat fools!”
[Guards] screaming as a Level 45 [Silversteel Armsmistress] ran at them. Voices calling for the [Archers] above to hit her, but she was fighting at the edges of the coliseum, meaning half of the [Archers] had to lean over the railing to try and shoot her….
And help? A Stitch-man was fighting in a knot with a group of [Gladiators], taking out the coliseum’s defenders. Bnirm roared.
“That traitor, Mectail—! Is that Granith with them? Pethore? Romen? Kill all of them!”
That seemed the bridge too far for the Stitch-folk around him. One protested.
“Manager, they’re just standing with the Traitorous Three as they did in the past. None of them have killed—”
“All of them! Kill all of them or I will have you stripped of your stuffing and turned into Hemp! No one goes against my coliseum!”
It was rather disappointing. The Stitch-man was ranting and raving as he pointed down at the chaos below, and he had not said anything that revealed to Pisces a greater motivation for his actions other than pure, petty power.
The ‘Traitorous Three’ suffering for so long. The dead [Soldiers]. And the [Slaves] and criminal gladiators killed for what?
“Surely there is a reason.”
But no. Pisces remembered Hrome and that banal face of evil. He heard a muffled sound from a speaking stone, and a [Bodyguard] stirred.
“Manager, our [Sharpshooters] are in place. They beg forgiveness; one has a shot.”
“What are you waiting for? Kill her! Silver Killer, you have made your last mistake!”
Manager Bnirm’s voice rose; he had seized a speaking stone and amplified his voice into the Coliseum of Monarchs.
Pisces could not see outside or know that the scrying spells had focused on Bnirm. Or that Yvlon, aware of the danger, was sprinting for her friends. She swerved, dodging a third spear tossed by Lenxiol as a pair of black-clad figures took aim at her with bright, gold bows.
The [Necromancer] knew none of this. All he knew was that his blood ran cold when he heard the [Manager] speak and saw his teammate was in danger. His hesitation vanished.
Pisces drew his rapier and took the longest [Flash Step] of his life. Twenty-nine feet past the [Bodyguards]. His free hand reached out, and the tip of his fingers touched the robed back.
“[Dispel Magic].”
Manager Bnirm half-turned.
“Wh—”
Pisces’ blade flashed across the man’s neck. The [Necromancer] felt a shock of resistance against his sword’s hilt, but he swept the blade through the protection spells.
A spray of blood splashed one cheek, warm and sticky, and he flinched. Before the eyes of the horrified Coliseum of Monarchs, Manager Bnirm’s head left his body. It spun with the force of the slash, a surprised open mouth and suddenly-vacant eyes twisting in the air, before it dropped.
Then he was there. Pisces Jealnet appeared as the [Invisibility Purge] claimed his enchantment, and his free hand pointed at a [Bodyguard] frozen in horror.
[Deathbolt]. He fired the spell through their open mouth, pointed left and hit the [Mage] with the same spell, and ran through a third [Bodyguard] and kicked the woman off his blade. Then he turned and shouted down from the balcony.
“Yvlon! Watch out!”
The surprised [Armsmistress] dashing for the gates glanced up at him. Yvlon opened her mouth to respond.
“Pisces! Be c—”
A pair of arrows struck her in the neck and head before Pisces’ eyes.
She dropped without a word.
 
——
 
“…Yvlon?”
Ksmvr awoke from his dreams in the Synectic Maze for a moment, the colors flashing around him. He emerged to find himself bound in the wagon again, Vofea’s voice the only sane one in this maddening hall.
But his lucidity was not all his willpower. Not this time. It was something else. Someone else.
His…friend. His teammate. His gentle, kind, impulsive protector. Family, if he deserved such a word.
Yvlon. He often spoke of her. Often thought of her.
He missed her most of all. If that was a treasonous thought to like one member of his beloved team more than the others, it was true, and he would submit himself to punishment later.
He didn’t know what was going on with her. They were under anti-scrying spells and anti-[Message] spells, shielded for their own safety from pursuers and enemies. But he was a [Teammate]; she was never far from his mind. And down here…
Vofea heard his voice and came running.
“Ksmvr, you’re awake again. What was that about Yvlon? What about her, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium had a Skill. [Monitor Attribute (Health)]. It worked on all of his teammates, but he kept it on Yvlon most of the time. He mumbled as he twitched in his bindings.
The Antinium tried to trace the only link he had with her. As if he could see the line that connected him from Baleros to distant Chandrar. He had no idea what was going on. Just faith that she would find him or he her.
He was glad she wasn’t here, dying in this sea of colors. But it was not necessarily safer for her in Chandrar, he knew. And Pisces…Ksmvr’s voice trembled slightly as he responded to Vofea.
“She…it is not the same as when she was fighting the battle earlier.”
Against a terrible foe. This time…Ksmvr stared into the distance as Vofea tensed. The Satyr’s eyes followed his gaze as she tried to see through the mortal world as well. But all she could see were the colors swirling above them, the darkness.
“What? What, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium gazed at the measure of her life given to him by the system of levels. His voice was confused.
“I—she has had the barrier from her Ring of Barriers protecting her health at all times unless she takes the ring off. But now? She has a thousand times more overshielding on her health.”
He smiled weakly as Vofea blinked at him. The colors were dragging him back, but for a moment, the Antinium smiled, and the grey of his willpower hardened and shone with the relief in his voice.
“She must have found a super-Relic. It is very reassuring.”
 
——
 
The Silver Killer was down. She lay on her face in the sands as her friends screamed, and Mectail almost ran out to grab her—but they’d all seen the arrows. They’d hit her in the cheek and throat. She was dead.
Helmetless and headshot. A squad of [Guards] with spears, nets, and a healing potion were approaching her. One had a magical collar, and they bent over the fallen women. There was a chance she might be clinging to life. She was a high-level warrior.
The Champion of Monarchs hadn’t moved from his spot, spear raised uncertainly. He seemed confused, as if he’d expected more from his foes. He was glancing around for Pisces, but the [Necromancer] had vanished.
Which was a pity; Yvlon had hoped Lenxiol would come over to gloat like he had for Vitte. She waited until one of the [Guards] rolled her over with the potion and collar in hand. His eyes fixed on her unblemished throat and cheek, and she saw the Stitch-man’s eyes go round as he perceived what no one else had.
The faint blue shimmer over her skin. Rippling from where he touched her. Rather like the Coliseum of Monarch’s own barrier spells. And, as her hand rose and spikes of metal exploded outwards—
The glowing ring of scaled shields on her finger.
The Silver Killer rose in another storm of blood as the screaming turned to gasps and silence. The Champion of Monarchs jerked, and she smiled.
Just as planned.
She didn’t have a full, complex strategy in mind. Yvlon Byres’ plans had pretty much begun and ended at confirming her hypothesis. Which was, namely, that her Ring of Barriers had a function beyond the mere damage shield that had protected her until now.
Her punching the barrier spells yesterday had been the clue: Yvlon had not hit it that hard. Hard enough to mash her fist, but not enough to equal her Sword Art, surely. If you took the obvious of her doing that much damage away, then what was it?
Great Sage Etrikah and Pisces had proven what Yvlon had suspected. Her ring was the thing that could eat a barrier. No Gold-ranker’s ring, this. The adventurers who had slain the Putrid One had come armed with the best, and, she suspected, this had been how they’d broken into his sanctum to slay him, despite all his protections.
This was a Ring of Siphon Barriers. Or something more impressive-sounding. And right now?
Yvlon had all the power of the Coliseum of Monarchs’ barriers protecting her.
They didn’t understand, not at first. A second and third arrow struck Yvlon in the temple and a gap between cuirass and arm where only her underarmor protected her. They snapped before even hitting Stalker’s hide armor, and the pieces pinwheeled away. She’d actually been hit several times by arrows from the [Archers] above; they must have thought they’d missed.
“Pisces! Keep hidden!”
She roared up at the 1st floor balcony and charged across the sands again. Straight at Lenxiol, hoping he’d take—no, he used the spear like a vaulting pole and soared away. Yvlon cursed, then swerved left. Straight into more [Gladiators] who came at her.
“[Free Blow]!”
“[Spear Art: The Sandstorm of—]”
“[Poisoned Jab—]”
They were good. Even if she’d been weaving, Yvlon would have taken hits meant to slow and wound her. She’d known the risks, which was why she’d only dared this with the ring. But with it—
She ran straight into the enchanted spear, and the [Spearmaster]’s eyes went round as he saw his blows weren’t slowing h—
Her fist left a dent in his armor as Yvlon seized another fleeing [Gladiator]. Her hand turned into razor blades, and she ripped a stitched arm off. Fight. Fight—but she was still not raging.
This barrier wouldn’t last forever. She had no idea if it had a time limit or if the ring could contain all the magic it had absorbed. So she hurled the screaming [Gladiator] aside.
“Lenxiol! Face me!”
His reply was a spear that struck her shoulder and actually sent her staggering back a few steps; the impact was from the Skill. She brushed the deformed metal spear away and saw his eyes narrow.
Damn, he’s no fool. She spun on her heel; there had to be an end to these damn [Guards]! The archers on the second floor—she couldn’t reach them. But when she ran at the next group of [Guards], they began to flee. Take out the supporters and [Gladiators]. Then—
Yvlon had a moment’s warning before the angry Manticore leapt and knocked her flat. It bit her with its lion’s head, stinging repeatedly with the scorpion’s tail as the goat’s head baaahed encouragement. The monster bit and bit—and then developed a confused, worried expression as it realized it wasn’t actually biting this hard object that—
Yvlon’s arms exploded like a ball of needles in the lion’s mouth, and both heads shrieked in agony as it collapsed, pawing at its mouth. She kicked her way free, wiping drool clinging to her barriers, and saw the second Manticore from yesterday snarling at her.
“Monsters now. Right.”
Can’t take too many hits. She’d told Pisces to stay [Invisible]—he didn’t have her protections. Not that she’d really expected him to stay hidden. She heard a scream behind her as she advanced on the second Manticore.
“Undead! Undead in the—”
That reckless hero. Yvlon Byres grinned. And he called himself a coward. She had a magic ring.
He was just brave.
 
——
 
“You knew what that ring did.”
“I have seen its like before. The conclusion was natural, especially given the evidence.”
Cognita sampled a piece of popcorn as Barelle figured out what was allowing Yvlon Byres to walk away without injury. He shook his head ruefully.
“She fooled even her teammates. Myself, I thought she was merely claimed by a fury Skill.”
“Yes. Artificial women such as myself, and to some extent her, are often underestimated mentally.”
Barelle half-twisted. He’d never heard Cognita group herself with anyone else except her lost sisters. Not even other Golems. His head snapped back around as he realized she wasn’t just watching Yvlon.
There was more than one adventurer in the Horns of Hammerad that Cognita followed no matter how much she might deny it. Her eyes were locked on a seemingly-innocuous patch of air where [Mages] were gathered on the 2nd Floor balcony.
“They’re going to try and dispel or use [Barrier-Piercing Arrows] on her.”
“Yes. That is a predictable action. As is his. Nevertheless, I am slightly entertained. He reminds me of Archmage Chandler’s lessons in combat.”
Another astonishing statement. But when the [Necromancer] reappeared, Barelle saw it. What they seldom said of the Archmage of Death was that he had been daring. Not craven, hiding behind his undead, but a duelist.
He had never been good at armies, ironically. Barelle’s lips moved.
“Once again, a [Necromancer] draws his sword in morality’s name.”
 
——
 
“I’m sorry.”
He was ashamed for the sneak-attack, but the [Mages] were trying to lock down Yvlon. So he cut one arm off and then both legs before the leader had any idea what was going on. Kicked another off the balcony and slashed the third’s hand off as they whirled.
No barrier spells. They hadn’t thought anyone was going to threaten them. Pisces pointed his finger, which glowed with green magic.
“Don’t—”
He saw the magic flickering in the eyes of the fourth [Mage] and fired the [Deathbolt]. Saw the life drain out of the Stitch-woman’s eyes, and he stood over her as she fell.
Almost, Pisces bent down to check her pulse, but he knew she was dead. She must have been under Level 20. She should have…
Guilt. Followed by action as the [Mage] he’d delimbed started screaming. Pisces whirled; Bnirm’s [Bodyguards] and more of the staff were in the hallways, trying to find him.
“Close your stitching. Run or I’ll kill you.”
He spoke to the first [Mage], and the second raised her bloody stump of a hand.
“I—I—I—I—surrender! I swear it on Nerrhavia’s bones! Don’t kill me, Scourge!”
Who? Then Pisces remembered his nickname. He put one foot on the balcony’s ledge and gazed down.
They were still coming at Yvlon. Someone was ordering them about. He heard a voice from the speaking stone.
Lenxiol. The Champion of Monarchs had taken over.
“All [Warriors] will engage her below in squads of twenty! [Mages], dispel that damned ring! Those above—find her comrades. There was a Human—take her hostage!”
Elena! Pisces swore, but he saw more [Soldiers] moving below. Too many. They had nets; even if Yvlon was temporarily invincible, they were going to web her down and stab her until she was vulnerable.
No helping it. Pisces threw his bag of holding’s contents over the balcony. Then leapt after it, casting [Featherfall].
—He landed behind a group of [Soldiers] as they flinched. Strange objects were landing around them. What—one caught a fragment of bone falling and then saw the [Necromancer] dropping.
“The Scourge.”
One of them threw away their blade and held up their hands at once. The others drew back, as if he were more terrifying than Yvlon. What kind of stories were they telling about…?
The [Necromancer] raised his hand, and his voice boomed as he amplified it.
 
——
 
“Arise!”
The Scourge of Roshal lifted his hands, and his eyes flashed with green magic, and the dead rose. Bones clattering upwards, Skeleton Champions seizing worn blades.
Not just from the bones around him, but in the sands. Lenxiol leapt away as a half-rotted body of Hemp rose from where it had been buried by the sands. He cut it to pieces with a shortsword, cursing.
The Coliseum of Monarchs had seen endless death. It had disposed of many bodies, but how many fragments of bone and bodies had been missed…?
“Undead! Undead in the arena!”
Panicked voices rose as the audience gasped and screamed, but these were Stitch-folk watching a famous [Necromancer]. Not Izrilians or Terandrians who would have fainted. The [Necromancer] was dueling the [Guards] that still fought—then surrendered as his Skeleton Champions cleaved through them, almost as fast as the adventurer himself. Lenxiol raised his spear to throw—but cursed.
The [Necromancer] had already vanished. However, his undead had not, and they were peculiar indeed. Lenxiol had fought lesser undead before, even a mindless Draugr for sport. But these…
A Skeleton Champion with a greatsword planted the blade as it adjusted its helmeted head. Its eyes flashed blue as it made a gesture at a [Gladiator] across the arena. It advanced, swinging the blade onto one shoulder. Gladiator Nimble, known as the Acrobat’s Blade hesitated, facing a challenge from an undead. He tried to advance confidently, flicking his own rapier and throwing daggers up. He threw twice; the Skeleton Champion didn’t even slow as the daggers hit its forehead and shoulder.
The Stitch-man paled and leapt backwards. He screamed as the rotating blade-trap cut him off at the legs. The Skeleton Champion with the greatsword paused and stared at the trap that had unburied itself from the sands and struck the unlucky [Gladiator]. It searched around for another foe, clattering its jaw in annoyance.
The traps? Lenxiol sensed the sands warming and remembered that on the edges of the arena—he leapt aside as a jet of flames roared up.
The arena’s traps! But how…? Bnirm had the keys to activate them, and Lenxiol hadn’t seen that blade-trap before. He’d heard they’d been damaged and never repaired since before Mars’ time.
The clue was when he saw the bone fusing the spinning blades together. Then the Champion of Monarchs felt a shiver run down his spine.
He’d reanimated the coliseum? Lenxiol cursed, then drew an enchanted bow from his bag of holding. He sighted on the Silver Killer and fired the first arrow he had: an Arrow of the Glacius.
The frozen pillar of ice stopped her, frozen within the ice. Lenxiol drew his real weapon, an enchanted shortsword, as he stalked forwards. He had to end this now…!
The iceberg cracked before he was a dozen steps forwards. Lenxiol thought the Silver Killer had broken her way out of the ice when he glanced up. An [Ice Lance] missed him as he dodged left.
They were standing on the walls! Ceria Springwalker conjured a ramp of ice and began sliding down as Colthei fired an arrow back at Lenxiol.
The rest of the Horns of Hammerad had arrived. The Stitch-man roared into the speaking stone.
“Take that Human hostage! Now!”
Then he was sprinting backwards—the Silver Killer burst out of the cracked ice and came straight at him. He fired the second arrow, and a storm of light arrows burst from his bow and slammed into her.
She kept coming—
 
——
 
“Colth! Take out their leadership! Link up with Pisces and cover him! I’m freezing the [Archers]!”
Ceria screamed at him as she focused—not on the [Archers], but the strings of their bows! They snapped as they were flexed, and she and Colth slid straight into the fighting. It had taken them too long to get into position, but they’d realized the same thing the audience had: Yvlon was using the barriers!
Screaming, cheering. In any other moment, the [Prankster] would have been showboating for attention, but she just fired a barrage of [Ice Spikes] down fast as she could, reinforcing her own [Ice Armor] as arrows cracked off her.
Colth didn’t hesitate; he shot towards the tunnels heading downwards, his baneblades drawn, and vanished with his armor. That left Ceria Springwalker dueling all the [Guards] on the upper floors.
Most of them just had bows. She had ice armor. Ceria kept skating, letting arrows glance off her protections—it was when one of the arrows cracked her armor and sent her spinning that she swore.
“[Sharpshooters].”
Two could play that game. One of the figures dove as she replied with an [Ice Lance]. Ceria’s circlet glinted as she drew on its magic—
“[Speed Spell]. [Lightning Bolt].”
The crackle of accelerated lightning blew one of the [Sharpshooters] off their feet. Ceria glanced left; a group of [Guards] were waving swords and charging out of the lower tunnels at her.
“[Ice Wall]. [Adept Iceform]. Spikes.”
She didn’t know if it skewered them; she was too busy spinning to focus on more of them. The [Cryomancer] glanced downwards. That damn Champion of Monarchs was blasting Yvlon with everything he had, a full grab-bag of tricks.
I have to get down and stop him. She shot another [Archer] through the chest with an [Ice Spike] and shouted.
“Run or I’ll kill the lot of you! I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, you idiots!”
None of them ran. She just wasn’t as intimidating as Yvlon or Colth by nature. But even so, why were they still fighting? Against just Yvlon and Pisces would make sense, but…
Then Ceria heard a familiar voice screaming her name and realized what they were up to.
“Ceria! Help!”
This was what came of having people attached to the team. A group of [Guards] was pursuing Elena as she ran, clearly intent on capturing her. Ceria aimed her wand at them—an arrow knocked it out of her grasp.
That second [Sharpshooter] had just sped up the part where they died. Snarling, Ceria tried to conjure an Ice Elemental on their heads and saw a [Guard] grab Elena’s arm as the half-Elf hunted for her wand. Elena slashed desperately with a dagger, and the [Guard] raised the hilt of a sword to club her down.
That was when Trainer Delitandra executed a flying jump-kick that launched the Stitch-man down three rows of seats. She disarmed the second [Guard] in three strikes as she parried two blows and swept the sword from the woman’s hands. Another of the Heromakers of Hraace kicked the legs of one of the [Guards], and a third just ripped a seat off its hinges and tossed it at the others.
“Oh. Huh.”
Ceria rolled to her feet as Delitandra shouted, posing with the rest of her group.
“Holding a valued ally hostage is a classic scenario facing any good [Hero]! We, the Heromakers of Hraace, teach style and grace under form. Like so—”
She spun and kicked another [Guard] coming up the stairs, and her cohort spread out around Elena, blades drawn. Delitandra pointed, and they fought rightwards.
“—keeping any valued personages safe while letting the enemy think they have an advantage and overcommitting to their plans—”
Ceria wasn’t really listening, but she grinned, for once in the mood to hear the preachy [Trainer] talk. She swept her wand up, and an [Ice Wall] angled at a forty-degree angle shot forward from the floor, tossing the [Guards] coming at her over the balconies.
 
——
 
“Ancestors! That was horrific! Stitch-folk or not, that had to be a drop of—they’re dead. Aren’t they dead?”
Sir Relz grabbed at his neck spines as he saw Ceria tossing the group of Stitch-folk. He was on Channel 1 News. Drassi was on Channel 2, shouting.
“Get ‘em, Ceria! Who’re those guys who saved Elena? The Heromakers of Hraace? Good for them! Where’s Pisces? Zoom in, zoom in on—”
Chaos. Was this good commentary? Absolutely not. Drassi and Sir Relz were just reacting to the battle in the Coliseum of Monarchs like ordinary people.
If you flipped to Wonders of Nerrhavia’s channel like a certain Molen might, then you got a markedly different experience. They had no high-level [News Anchors] and no better perspective on the Coliseum of Monarchs than anyone else; everyone was just using spells from inside the arena.
Instead, the news crews there had found two special guests who weren’t panicking or shouting. Indeed, they were levelly sipping glasses of water.
“Another group has died to the Ice Squirrel. The Silver Killer pursues the Champion of Monarchs, but thus far, she has not caught him. Surely, her magical protections will wear off soon.”
“This is truly said, Rexel. However, if Yvlon Byres catches him first, he is a dead man, the great desert be my witness.”
Rexel and Leprel, advertised as ‘veteran gladiators and former comrades of the Silver Killer’, sat straight-faced in two plush chairs with the screen positioned just behind and above them. A completely different atmosphere. Rexel took a measured drink from her waterglass as she nodded.
“Quite, Leprel. Having fought with the Silver Killer once myself, I do not think it matters if her barriers run out. The Champion of Monarchs will have to stab her even if he puts a hole in her face.”
“Yes, her teeth will be buried in his arms even if he somehow kills her. I am merely astonished any stand before her. It is well-known the Silver Killer murdered a thousand Stitch-folk before being apprehended—and this was when she was wounded and sick! But then, is there anywhere in Chandrar one could escape her, Rexel?”
“Nowhere, Leprel.”
The two bandits-turned-gladiators that had once followed Yvlon—unwillingly—through her gladiator debut were making the most of their moment in the limelight.
However, none of it was quite what you wanted. No voice on the news was actually part of the action, just spectators giving their opinions as well as any [Armchair Viewer].
—That was until someone began shouting in the Coliseum of Monarchs itself.
 
——
 
The safest place to be in the chaotic arena was, of course, the [Announcers]’ booths. It had doors. It could be held by a small group like, say, the Heromakers of Hraace, who fought their way to the abandoned rooms overlooking the coliseum and barred the entrances.
Several of the [Trainers] had bows and wands they used to keep anyone from breaking down the doors, and Delitandra searched the rooms and seized the ‘microphone’. She spoke into it with a flourish of pure delight.
“I am Delitandra, Hero Trainer of Hraace! It is my honor to proclaim that the Horns of Hammerad face the entire Coliseum of Monarchs! Below me, Ceria Springwalker herself has cleared the stands of [Archers]! She fights with the aplomb and skill of a true [Cryomancer], and her skin is ever-frozen, that of a species unknown to all but those familiar with half-Elves. A Boreal—”
She was giving valuable context and insights to the audience roaring and shouting at the multi-faceted battle. However, Delitandra had never actually done commentary work of this kind—Ceria was already skating towards another group of foes as Delitandra tried to explain her species, which of course she knew.
So, like last time—Elena grabbed the microphone and screamed into it.
“GET THEM, CERIA!”
The shriek of noise shocked Delitandra and the entire audience. Delitandra recoiled, then realized it was happening again and tried to grab the microphone, but Elena just leaned over the balcony.
“They’ve got the [Archers]! I think I see Colth down there! Look! By the fortress!”
Parts of the coliseum were rising, traps going off. Elena pointed, and everyone looked; they saw the [Ultimate Supporter] had appeared, and an entire group of [Gladiators] were fighting from the fortifications.
“He’s rallying the [Gladiators]! The criminals and [Slaves]—and Pisces’ undead are everywhere! I don’t see him—he must be taking out [Mages]. You hear that, you idiots? Run! What are you doing fighting Gold-rank adventurers? They already killed that horrible stupid [Manager]—are you fighting for money? You’re not getting paid.”
Elena’s voice crackled over the speaker systems, and some of the [Guards] glanced up and heard a counterargument to the voice of the Champion of Monarchs shouting at them. Their instinctive obedience and sense they could control the situation wavered. Manager Bnirm was dead?
The [Beautician] was fighting off Delitandra, and the other Heromakers were helping her as she kept shouting.
“If that doesn’t sway you, then think about this: Yvlon is going to mince you into itty-bitty pieces! She’s taking out the last of the [Gladiators] fighting her! Look! That poor Centauress is two seconds away from being glue!”
Said Centauress had been taking potshots at Yvlon, but the Silver Killer was almost on top of her, and Elena’s words made the horse-woman panic. Elena winced.
“Oh! She might not be dead? Who was—”
Delitandra had grabbed the other microphone rather than continue battling Elena.
“Centauress Thilvetames, of Maelstrom’s Howling—”
“What are they doing down there? There’s another one who thinks he’s got a chance—oh, he cut her!”
The sword had gone through her barriers, and Yvlon twisted as Elena screamed.
“She blocked it on her armor. And now he’s dead.”
“That was Mageblade Noix—”
The [Gladiators] weren’t blind, and with Elena’s commentary, even the best fighters took a glance at Yvlon’s bloody swathe through them and the odds, decreasing with every [Guard] who decided to flee or [Gladiators] joining Yvlon’s side. One tried to escape, and a spear took them through the lower back.
Lenxiol stood in the stands, aiming at more running figures. He glanced up as Elena shouted down at him.
“He’s right there! The Champion of Monarchs! I’d surrender if I were you—aah!”
Delitandra had grabbed Elena just before the spear blew out the enchanted glass of the booth they were in. Elena’s head poked up as she shakily shouted.
“He’s the highest-level person left. Someone get him, please?”
Yvlon had spotted Lenxiol’s throw and was coming at him again. He whirled with a snarl and threw his last javelin. It snapped on her body. His arms blurred—
[Storm of Daggers]! The enchanted daggers flashed every color of the rainbow, striking her. He hurled a satchel of flasks and kicked backwards. [Explosive Stepback]. The Champion fired an arrow from his enchanted bow, aimed a wand and let loose a bolt of [Grand Lightning]. Watched the Silver Killer run through the trap runes he’d baited her into. Ignore the [Cutting Windslash] from his shortsword, take the pair of bolas he tossed and ignore the white-hot glow of their burning heat—
A speeding boulder of metal coming at the Stitch-man who stood, drawing a buckler with his other hand. He cracked it across her face in an explosion of sparks, and she swung a fist; his blade met her arm, and they locked together as she strained, heaving. The enchantment gave—he leapt out of the vortex that nearly sucked his arm into nothingness. It took the buckler as Yvlon stumbled. She raised a fist and threw a punch as he snarled.
He threw a punch as she instinctively guarded. There was a moment of silence as the breathless audience watched him leap backwards. And Yvlon Byres—
Stumbled.
Glanced down at her metal arm. The imprints of a fist were visible on the metal. Her punch had missed. She leapt forwards in another swing—
His kick tossed her off her feet. She landed on her back, blinked, and rolled out of a stomp that tangled in her hair. Strands tore out as Yvlon rose—the uppercut he gave her sent her reeling. She spat blood, her arms turning into spikes that shot outwards as she retreated.
The barriers—
Lenxiol snapped one of the metal spikes shooting for him with one hand as he dodged around them. His eyes were locked on Yvlon’s. She bared her bloody teeth at him as he drew another fan of throwing knives and a mace.
Elena breathed in the sudden silence.
“Oh no. Yvlon—”
The Silver Killer spat onto the sands as she grinned at the Champion of Monarchs. At last.
He’d stopped running.
 
——
 
Her Ring of Barriers was down. Yvlon was vulnerable again. And the Champion of Monarchs—
Too fast. Even as Colth leapt off the tower and shouted into the speaking stone he carried, he saw them trading punches. Or Yvlon was trying to.
Lenxiol leaned out of the way of a swing, then snapped forwards, suplexing her before she could tackle him. Her arms exploded in that pincushion trick; he was already behind her and delivered a hammer-blow to her back that bent her armor in.
She was tough, but that hurt her. She grabbed one leg as he stomped on her arm; her razor-fingers scratched him. He leapt back again, resetting his distance, and tried to pincushion her with daggers.
“Horns, on me! [Hex of Maligned Aim]!”
Colth flung the hex, but he wasn’t sure if it was the hex or just Lenxiol’s reactions that threw the hail of darts off. Yvlon had formed shields from her arms and was up as he charged forwards.
“Leave off, Colth. I can—”
“Shut up. Pisces, where are you? Get him!”
Ceria. She came sliding down a ramp of ice from overhead, circling downwards. She cursed; a spear from below blew the ramp to pieces, and she was falling. Easy target. She shielded her face with her arms as Lenxiol flipped up another spear—glanced sideways—
Slashed through a Skeleton Champion, shredding the [Invisibility] spell that Pisces had cast. He leaned under the stab from the [Necromancer] and swung his spear at Pisces’ chest. The [Necromancer] flash-stepped backwards.
Colth fired an arrow from his shortbow. [Homing Arrow]—he curved it where he thought the Stitch-man would be, and Lenxiol caught it.
“Damn. I hate people with diverse Skills.”
Anyone like him, rather. The [Ultimate Supporter] saw Yvlon rip a healing potion from her belt and drink it.
Lenxiol snarled at the potion, and Colth thanked the King of Medain for that. Not many healing options for either group. Yvlon had her ring. After that…
Ceria landed next to them and spoke over her speaking stone.
“He’s way too fast. Over Level 50. We hit him together, Bograms-style. Ready?”
“Ready. [Team: Coordinated Assault]!”
Colth raised his hand and thought to them—now. The Champion of Monarchs was tensed, wary. A cornered beast. But he wasn’t prepared for the Horns to just start running at him.
Oh, but he was quick. He lunged away, trying to sprint towards the fortress so he could place it at his back, but he didn’t expect Colth to throw a net at him. The damn slave-carriers of this continent had tons of them, and they were free if you left the slavers choking on their own blood.
[Capture Net]. Colth gave him a Demon’s smile as Lenxiol chopped through the net with a snarl, and then his foot caught in the sands.
Frozen in ice. His eyes widened in alarm as Ceria Springwalker burst out of a cloud of ice spraying to his right, cutting him off. She appeared, morphing out of the snow, and screamed.
“Now! [Ice Lance Barrage]!”
Four [Ice Lances] hit the Champion of Monarchs straight-on. Yvlon Byres was right behind the barrage of ice as Lenxiol reeled. Her arm extended, and she screamed.
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]!”
Colth was on Lenxiol’s other side and saw the [Gladiator Champion]’s bulging eyes.
“[Copy Skill]. [Crosscounter Strikes].”
The two hit Lenxiol at the same time, and the explosion of dust drowned out all sight as the audience screamed, on their feet. Ceria howled.
“Pisces!”
“Oh, uh—[Shatterbolt]! [Deathbolt]!”
He flicked his ring-hand and fired the spell off his ring, then fired the spell with his offhand. Without any other readied magic, or a blade art, he came to a halt as Colth and Yvlon stared at him. Yvlon raised a fist—and Lenxiol punched her backwards a dozen steps. Colth was clipped by a foot and did a [Double Backflip] to avoid another blow.
“Huh?”
They had to have hurt him! What was—
Then the dust cleared, and the disbelieving audience of the Coliseum of Monarchs recalled his name. Lenxiol stood, skin undamaged by the combination of attacks, his clothing torn off, revealing a muscled abdomen, tanned skin flexing in the sun as he posed.
Lenxiol the Invincible.
Champion of Monarchs. 
[Pride of the Arena: Your Greatest Blow, Worthless]. A Level 50 [Gladiator Champion]’s Skill.
Lenxiol smirked, letting his blue-green hair brush over his eyes, his body unblemished save for one leg where Yvlon had cut him previously.
The Horns of Hammerad glanced at each other in sudden silence as he waited for them. Ceria Springwalker spoke coolly as she nodded.
“Cute trick. I bet that was his best one. Hit him again, harder!”
“I have it this time—[Flame Rapier]. [Bound Spell: Spear of Light]!”
Pisces flicked his rapier out, and it glowed as he bound a glowing spell to the tip. Colth grinned at Lenxiol’s face as the air around Ceria grew colder.
“[Imitation of Might: Jaganismet].”
He sheathed his blades and activated his other best Skill. Pisces was [Flash Stepping] left as Ceria’s magic swirled around her.
“This time, I’m going to put a hole in this guy. Colth, cover me.”
“You got it, boss.”
The Champion of Monarchs was more disconcerted by the Horns’ reaction than anything else so far. Because, of course, he was used to fighting fellow [Gladiators] in this lovely little arena. Special attacks? Final moves? Ultimate, battle-ending blows that could turn the tides?
They didn’t have any. Well, the Horns of Hammerad didn’t rely on such things. They were adventurers. If you kept moving after their finest blow, they hit you with the second and the third.
Until you were dead. Lenxiol’s eyes were flickering from Ceria’s spellcasting to Colth to Pisces and the undead advancing from behind him when Yvlon’s gravelly voice interrupted them.
“Wait. Let me face him alone.”
She held a silvermetal hand in front of Ceria, and the [Cryomancer] stopped chanting ominously. Colth half-turned.
“Yvlon, you’re underlevelled.”
“Just keep him from running. He’s out of ranged weapons. I started this; I’ll end it. There’s no glory in beating down the Champion of Monarchs together. He wanted the Silver Killer. Here I am.”
She was panting, but as Colth inspected her attributes with his own [Teammate] Skills, he realized she was just tired from fighting. She hadn’t taken much damage until now. Yvlon drank a stamina potion as he tossed it at her; Ceria was hesitating.
“Captain, please. Trust me.”
The half-Elf locked gazes with Yvlon, and then her lips twisted.
“Aw, damnit—the circlet thinks you’re stupid, and I agree. But what do we know? Get him. You’d better not lose!”
She backed up and glanced at Colth. He received a [Message] spell.
If he’s winning, get ready to stab him in the ass.
Colth kept his face smooth as he stepped backwards. Lenxiol was grinning as Pisces lowered his rapier after saluting Yvlon. The Champion probably thought he could beat Yvlon and take her hostage—or at least escape or beat the rest of them if he took out their [Warrior].
All valid concerns. Assuming he won. Because Colth was thinking the same thing as the rest of the Horns as the audience cheered the Silver Killer meeting the Champion of Monarchs. Faster, higher-level, more experienced…
Lenxiol’s cocksure grin wavered as Yvlon Byres stared up at the sky, then closed her eyes and exhaled. Like the rest of the Horns, she didn’t have many powerful Skills to end fights.
She’d used her [Aspect of Silver] and her [Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]. But there was one thing missing from their teammate’s fighting style that they hadn’t seen recently. A sign they were truly cornered or that the moment called for it.
Yvlon Byres opened her eyes. And then she began to tremble slightly. A smile edged over her face unlike the other ones, and her blue eyes, when they focused on Lenxiol, were a bit…wild.
“I’m losing my temper.”
Lenxiol’s brows creased in sudden alarm. Ceria edged behind Colth. For his part, the [Ultimate Supporter] blinked. He had [Berserker] Skills, of course. He copied everything. But he supposed Berr taught better berserking than Colth had expected.
The steam was new.
 
——
 
“You’ll rage a bit differently after my tutelage, Yvlon Byres. Don’t be alarmed…eh, tell your team not to be alarmed. Keep it in. All your anger, your rage, the little and big things. Until you need it. Then unleash it. Fear your rage. I fear myself when I am angry. That is a good thing to have.”
—Berr the [Berserker], Year 1 of the Journey of the Living.
 
She was hot. The woman screamed with relief. With fury. With sorrow for her friends who she had abandoned and let down.
At this man, who she knew could kill her. She didn’t care. She unleashed the only thing she had on him: her rage.
After so long, she let it out. Not the battle at sea nor even Bograms had seen her use it fully. This?
This was the moment. 
It was the same fury that had seen her go against the Adult Creler. She was just as angry. Angrier. It burst out of her until her heart was beating what felt like a thousand times per minute. Her body was unbearably hot. Steam—steam was rising from her sweat and the blood that had splashed her.
The heat of her body alone caused a burst of steam to rise, but she lunged out of the cloud before anyone could react. Mouth open, screaming, because she had to scream—fists swinging for him.
No blades of metal. No tricks. Just—
Hit him.
He was strong. He was fast. His blows dented her arms as she reached for him. Struck her armor and kissed her ribs in agony.
She didn’t feel it. But she did slide under a blow. Dodge. You had to d—
Knife in one hand slashing across her face.
She ducked it as her master had taught her. Exploded upwards with an uppercut. He dodged it, but she brushed his chest. The edge of her arm turning into razors sliced his skin open. Just a line, but she touched him.
“Damned brute of—”
He spoke, wasting his mewling breath. But then she was screaming. She grinned as she lunged again. Block—
His punch was the hardest yet and dug her feet into the dirt. When she saw him recoil, her arms were dented together.
Just like Mars, he could punch so hard he made her arms deform. But unlike Mars, it wasn’t easy for him. His fists hurt. He wavered. Sprinted backwards—
The [Necromancer], her [Necromancer], appeared, flaming blade in hand, and pointed.
“[Deathblast].”
The [Champion] barely dodged it and tried to seize him, snarling. The brown-haired man’s eyes were wide—but not for fear of the Stitch-man. He threw himself aside as Yvlon leapt.
This time, she caught Lenxiol. Faster than even he expected. She kneed him in the chest and felt him exhale hard. He punched her in the throat. She had his arm.
Her fingers ripped pieces out of his arm as he tore it away, and he cried out, feeling at the bloody grooves in his arm. He backed up— walls of ice rose, blocking him in. The Squirrel, cackling as she sat atop them.
A grinning Demon barring the other direction. To get away, he had to go through—her.
He tackled her back. Threw her with a twist—ducked the noose of metal she had tried to twist around his throat, a garroting line that would have beheaded him, with an oath.
Rattled, he whirled back. She rose, chuckling.
Tricky. Tricky—be tricky even in rage. Or you’re too simple. Now—kill him.
A voice was growling in her ears. While he waited for the trick, she sprinted at him. Feinted with her hands. He threw a punch, backstepping. At last—she hit him in the ribs and felt one break. Now throw another punch. And another. Another, another, anotheranotheranotheranotheranother—
 
——
 
“She’s too fast.”
That was Flos Reimarch’s only comment. He sat as Mars the Illusionist drank water and eyed the siege. She was disinterested, but she humored her liege and shrugged as Flos’ voice made the others turn to him.
“She’s berserking, Your Majesty?”
“No. She’s faster than even that.”
The King of Destruction said simply. He watched as the Champion of Monarchs tried to get away, and she caught him in another flicker of movement. Mars spat.
“The current Champion of Monarchs is a showoff. I heard he had few worthy challenges; he’s good enough with his fists, but he hasn’t had to bleed for his title in a true match in years. She’s out for blood. As for speed, well, I suppose I noticed that.”
“She has galas-muscle before Level 50. Much more than most warriors.”
That was what it was. The other [Soldiers] started as Flos Reimarch frowned. Mars shrugged innocently.
“Perhaps I helped it along. More likely, she’s got no muscle in her arms. So it’s concentrated.”
The King of Destruction grinned. This time, Lenxiol met Yvlon in a collision, striking her, hammering her side, trying to get an arm around—
 
——
 
The howl from the Stitch-man as he leapt back revealed blood. Barelle wasn’t surprised. Lenxiol’s first mistake was trying to stay when the Horns assaulted the arena. The moment Bnirm died, he should have fled.
“She bit him.”
Trying to grapple with a [Berserker] was a foolish move. The Silver Killer spat blood and flesh onto the ground as Lenxiol clutched at his bicep.
“The Coliseum of Monarchs has become a genteel arena if their Champion is unused to such actions.”
Cognita Truestone was watching with mild interest. Barelle turned to her as the Silver Killer advanced, punching and striking. If not as fast as Lenxiol—her arms hit him harder than he hit her, and she didn’t seem to react to the damage.
Barelle well knew how dismaying it was to face an enemy who didn’t seem to be taking damage.
“Cognita, your verdict on who will win?”
“A Level 40 warrior is facing a Level 50 hybrid bereft of items and backup. The conclusion is evident.”
“Speaking as another hybrid, if not of those levels, he might surprise you.”
Barelle spoke in offhanded defense of Lenxiol. Cognita sampled another popcorn piece.
“Doubtful.”
 
——
 
He bled. Yvlon Byres felt her rage running hot and pushed more through her body. It was not unlimited. She felt a limit on how much she had—and perhaps how much she could withstand—but she could intensify it and catch him.
Her legs were burning. He was panting. Bruises mottling his flesh, dark and heavy. She knew she’d broken ribs.
She wanted to break those legs. She almost threw herself at him again, but forced herself to stop.
More lessons from her master, and they were important. She was a good student. She had always been a good girl…
Pause. Assess. Do not be predictable. If you are winning without, press—but throw his tempo off.
She stopped, breathing in and out smoothly, then tilted her head. Tilted her body until it was a sideways stare at the Stitch-man. Her eyes were wide, her face expressionless as she saw how he favored his left side.
The Silver Killer had no notion of how she seemed, a blank-faced woman with blood running from her mouth, steam rising from her body, as she inspected the Champion of Monarchs like prey.
 
——
 
“Master! Master!”
Berr hit one of his apprentices who kept shouting in his ear. He was trying to watch. He was grinning though.
“Shut up.”
“But Master—you taught her your Look?”
All the little cub-warriors were howling and running around in excitement. Berr sipped from his cup of Velrusk Claw, chuckling.
“I did not. And it is not a Skill no matter how much you all whine it is. She is just a natural student.”
The Look was just intimidation. A wide-eyed [Berserker] studying you in the middle of a battle, suddenly silent and calm, would throw even a seasoned warrior off. It meant nothing if your heart was steady.
This Stitch-man’s was not. She came for him, and Berr laughed.
“Get him.”
 
——
 
He didn’t know she wanted his leg until too late. Punch it. Punch it again. He kept kicking her with the other, so punch that out of the air. Punch his stomach—when he tried to force her back, strike up with all her strength.
Until she saw the stitches on his shoulders stretch and a few snap and his neck almost elongate. Almost—but punch that damned running leg.
Then it snapped. She was not fooled, of course. She was ready for the real fight now. His leg breaking wouldn’t—
“—cy—”
He didn’t get up. So she lunged at him and punched and punched—until a foot kicked her off. Then she rolled upright, shedding the armor crushed against her chest. Snarling. And saw only his mouth moving.
“—Mercy. I surrender—”
Yvlon Byres’ haze of fury cleared slightly. He wasn’t getting up? He…
The Champion of Monarchs lay there, leg broken and lying at the wrong angle, panting, holding his hands up. Yvlon was suddenly conscious of her own broken ribs. The pain radiating from her body.
She heard again, over the roaring of the crowd, Elena’s voice for some reason. Staggered.
“Mercy?”
He had crossed his arms, and there was fear in his eyes. The Silver Killer waited for the trick. She knew he could still fight. But she realized—
He didn’t want to. His hands were hovering near his bag of holding. He had weapons. He had tricks. But—
“Face me, Champion of Monarchs.”
He shook his head as she mumbled the words at him. Yvlon was drooling blood. She wobbled, but the fury had left her weak. Dangerous…she cast around. And realized he was done.
So she’d won? She’d been ready to face more. Mars…
He was no Mars. She wobbled as she tried to pivot on one leg, and it sang agony.
Colth was beside her in a moment.
“Just keep standing, Yv. Just turn around and walk away. You got him. Good job.”
He was whispering as he supported her, and she felt her strength return as her fury left her. She stood, breathing in and out.
“The [Guards]—”
“They ran. Mind you, we have a small problem: someone reactivated the barriers. They’ve locked us in.”
Colth nodded upwards, and she saw the shimmering forcefields had been reignited. Yvlon fingered her ring. It felt cold—
“I don’t think my ring—”
“Don’t worry. Just look good as you walk off. We’ll patch you up, and if there’s more trouble, we’ll clear this area first. Pisces is working on something, anyways.”
The [Necromancer] was scratching at the ground with his rapier, and a bunch of skeletons were helping him. Yvlon looked around.
“My friends. Where…?”
There. There were Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte. She stumbled towards them as Vitte drew back. But Thexca just reached out, then hesitated. They were all hurt. Mectail had a terrible gash down one leg, and Thexca had two arrows sticking out of her shoulder, but they were alive.
“Mectail. Thexca. Vitte. Thank goodness you’re alive.”
Yvlon spoke automatically as Colth helped her come over. She saw slave and criminal gladiators staring at her from the fortress. When she glanced up, they drew back.
“Y-Yvlon?”
Thexca was hesitant as she stepped forwards. The Silver Killer of Izril brushed at her bloody hair. Then she smiled, relieved.
“I’m so sorry I took so long. Are you alright? I’ll make it up to you, I promise.”
The raging woman who had bested the Champion of Monarchs stood there, and it was a pure expression that crossed her features. Like a girl concerned for her friends. An innocent smile for friends she had been worried for.
The [Gladiators] gazed at her, each one silent for different reasons as Yvlon turned. She saw a few [Guards], the [Gladiators] who hadn’t yet surrendered or played dead, gathered on the far end of the arena. Or above, watching from outside the forcefield they’d erected to contain her.
In a more normal tone of voice, she continued.
“I’m relieved. Now, let’s get you out of here. On my vow as a Horn of Hammerad, I promise—no one is going to harm you.”
Her voice rose, and she shouted it at the enemy, who flinched.
“Silver and steel be my guide! Everything dies! EVERYONE DIES.”
They ran. Very refreshingly. Yvlon turned back to the others and winked.
“That last bit is just knighting.”
Funnily, they didn’t seem to quite believe her.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker stood in the quiet arena, watching Pisces work. Anyone who hadn’t immediately wet themselves had thrown down their weapons and begged for mercy after Yvlon had yelled at them.
Not for the first time, the half-Elf envied her insane friend. It wasn’t easy to be Yvlon, if Ceria was right about how hurt she was. But being Yvlon felt like a winning formula in a lot of ways.
A barrier-absorbing ring, her metal arms, and a [Berserker]’s rage. She was a [Mage]’s worst nightmare unless you could fly. Ceria decided to add anti-flying spells to her research list.
She had to keep up. The half-Elf was cold; Pisces kept glancing at Yvlon, as if he hadn’t made his own impact. She and Colth were the ones who had just shown up. Who hadn’t quite trusted Yvlon.
“Well, I suppose I’m getting my just desserts. Like my team, Lenxiol?”
She turned to the Stitch-man. He was lying on his back, fumbling with his broken leg. His face was contorted in agony, but he gasped at her.
“That one is almost as mad as the Scourge. The enemies you’ve made for killing Bnirm you can’t guess at!”
“Is that a threat?”
He finally undid the stitches and lay back as the agony from his broken leg left him. Sweating, the Stitch-man found a replacement leg.
“Not from I. Did you have to come to my coliseum?”
“Well, you were torturing her friends.”
“They betrayed—I have done nothing permanent to any—enough, I am done. I shall slink off and lick my wounds. I know better than to fight a second Mars.”
Wow, he was being really good with the lipservice. She supposed a [Gladiator Champion] really was half entertainment-type Skills. She saw Lenxiol begin to tie his leg onto his body. He seemed to use thick, visible cords you could hand-tie instead of needing a needle. Very smart, that. She bet, aesthetically, it appeared weird or something.
Ceria waited until the Stitch-man had his hands full tying the cords and then fired the [Ice Lance Barrage] straight into his back.
He was fast. He almost threw a blade at her when the [Tidal Wave] washed over him and froze solid. He was gasping as he tried to break free.
“Please—”
She aimed the [Ice Lance] spell at his throat and fired, and that might have done the job. But to be sure, absolutely sure, she [Snap Froze] his head in a block of ice. Then snapped her fingers.
When it shattered into colored fragments of flesh, then she was sure he was dead. Shocked screams and voices called from around her. She turned and gave Pisces an innocent look.
“What? I’ve heard they can survive even having their heads cut off. Did you think he was going to just walk off and never trouble us again?”
“Ceria—!”
She pointedly took her circlet off her head, switching it out for the Crown of Medain. She really hoped Yvlon wasn’t going to come over and punch her, but her friend just stared at her as Colth gave Ceria a covert thumbs-up. He sidled over and began looting Lenxiol’s bag of holding and belt pouches.
She knew he’d get it. Ceria regarded Pisces.
“Lecture me later. I thought there was a non-negative chance of him stabbing us all in the back the moment he put that leg on and reinforcements arrived. My bet is Bnirm’s friends want us dead. I’d rather not sit in this barrier while they line up some [Assassins]. Are you doing what I think you’re doing to get us out?”
The [Necromancer] was pale-faced, but after a second, he seemed to compose himself and jerked his head.
“Stand back. Wall up in the [Fortress of the Ice Queen]; I don’t know if this will work. In the worst case, we’re fighting two battles.”
“Hey, great. You have a bad idea, I have mine.”
She watched him walk back to the circle of magic he was drawing. Then she spoke.
“I didn’t enjoy it.”
“A good thing you remember some morality, then.”
“They played for keeps with you, Pisces. I’ll do worse to them.”
The half-Elf’s eyes glowed with a pale light as Pisces glanced up. He hesitated.
“He wasn’t them, though.”
“Bnirm seemed close enough. Lenxiol practically runs this arena. We’ll discuss it later.”
Without a word, Pisces went back to work. Ceria saw the death magic activating and glanced up at the barriers overhead.
Yep, that’s a lot of power. I doubt we could bust through if all of us wailed on it. Even if Lenxiol had helped with his bags of holding…Yvlon’s ring definitely lost the magic it absorbed faster than he did damage to her. Still scary as shit. No wonder the adventurers carried this ring. It’s made to slay [Mages]. Steal their protections and guard yourself in one fell swoop.
She jogged off, shrugging. Pisces kept working for a few more seconds, then stood back.
“Owners of the Coliseum of Monarchs, we desire release! There is no more blood to be shed—let us out!”
No response. Ceria didn’t know who was in charge of the barrier spells, but she probably wouldn’t let them out regardless. Still…what did those above see?
The Scourge of Roshal standing there, sword drawn, in front of an ominously-glowing magical circle. Pisces’ voice was raspy.
“We have each done what we felt we must. We will not be caged again. I have warned you.”
After a minute of silence, he stood back from the circle. Ceria noted he’d already deanimated his Skeleton Champions and collected his bones. Pisces finished drawing the line in the magical circle. Made sure it was working—then [Flash Stepped] over to her where she was raising layers of magical ice.
“Wait, what’s he doing?”
Yvlon was so woozy she hadn’t really figured out the plan. Colth was grinning that desperate smile as Ceria gave Yvlon a beaming grin.
“Oh, you know. Forcing their hand. The only way we know how. You ready to keep fighting, Yvlon?”
“You killed Lenxiol. Fight what?”
Pisces appeared next to them and dove into cover as the other [Gladiators] drew back from him. He popped up, and Ceria raised a triple-thick layer of [Ice Walls].
“Er…remember Hraace?”
 
——
 
Just what did you think of it all?
The Silver Killer’s madness that had humbled the Champion of Monarchs. Pisces, the Scourge of Roshal, killing Manager Bnirm in a single moment before bringing undead to rout the others. The Ice Squirrel’s cold, cold killing of Lenxiol—and Colth the Rookie, who had performed exceptionally adequately, if not showily?
Yisame was trembling. She had already given orders for the army to escort the Horns back to the palace, but she knew Bnirm’s faction had to be shaking with a rage of their own. So she watched her beloved team, wishing only that Ksmvr had been there. And she wondered…what others saw.
For she saw Pisces Jealnet make his demand—then activate the spell about half a minute before a [Mage] came screaming into the Court of Silks.
“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!”
Her [Bodyguards], who felt much vindicated after all that had been seen and done, blocked the [Mage] with blades at the woman’s throat.
“Who dares interrupt the Queen?”
The Voice snapped, but the [Mage] gasped.
“I beg your forgiveness, Queen! But—but—a Death’s Door has opened up in the capital! It is unleashing death magic!”
A gasp of horror from those in the audience who actually knew what that meant. Queen Yisame was very proud of the calm way in which she lifted her head. She shifted the scrying orb so all could see the arm of the Bone Giant reaching upwards, pressing against the barrier spells.
“It seems the Scourge of Roshal fears no undead. Are the barrier spells not lowered? Assemble the royal army—to close this portal of course.”
 
——
 
An unbounded circle of death.
Just like the Hero of Zethe had told Pisces, it was possible to make if you had enough magical ability and the right conditions to allow death magic to flourish. Like this arena filled with dead bodies. Of course, he had told Pisces of the incredible danger and the potential to create an entire death zone from one such portal.
The [Necromancer] had sworn to, naturally, never create one…unless he really needed to. It wasn’t that useful, after all. Even a Bone Giant wasn’t that helpful if it was wild and rogue, and it sucked up all the death magic around, so it was a quite dubious trick.
…Unless you were threatening to unleash a Bone Giant on the city. It was swinging its arms against the barrier spells and, as of yet, not paying attention to the mortals in the cage with it. The audience was running.
Quite a gamble. Still, you had to admire the coxals on that [Necromancer] for raising the ante. The allies of Bnirm were in a quandary: let the Bone Giant rampage and risk taking some of the blame or keep the spells up and risk the Horns just blowing a hole in it anyways? And the Queen was demanding action be taken…
The question was rendered moot not by their choices, but by someone else. High above the Court of Silks, in one of the towers of Tyrant’s Rest—not the palace, but in the sprawling city itself—a person awoke.
They’d been lying abed all morning. It was, after all, barely 10 AM. The hither-to slumberer stumbled to one window.
“Eh, eh? What in Silk is that?”
His tone of ire was followed by explanations from worried, lesser apprentices and his own contacts in the city. The [Mage] shielded his eyes and hunted around his rooms.
“A Death’s Door? In my city? Foreigner-made? Unacceptable. Where is…aha!”
A window opened on the tower facing the Coliseum of Monarchs, and a staff was pushed out of it, held at the very end. It wobbled alarmingly until the [Mage] spoke.
“Pinpoint coordinates…[Meteor Storm]. There.”
He did not actually keep watching to see the clouds darken overhead and the first glow break through the skies or the chunks of superheated rocks falling. The disgruntled [Mage] of Silk, the highest-levelled spellcaster of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, went back to sleep. He tossed, turned, and was about to fire a second storm off when the portal vanished.
Then he went back to sleep. He was no [Mage] that needed or would fight the King of Destruction’s armies or these lesser wars that happened now and again. He was above the mundane politics of the Court of Silks.
Amerys would have called him a coward. He would note that of the [Mages] she would fly to challenge, regardless of their will, he was not one of them.
 
——
 
The tale of the Silver Killer’s return to the Coliseum of Monarchs was told and retold, but not at the lengths one would expect. After all, who needed a [Spinner of Tales] when they could simply rewatch the broadcast?
Much was said of the reception the Silver Killer had upon her return to the Court of Silks. Some small rumors had begun of the Queen’s behavior around her—that perhaps Yisame was too affectionate or too weak-willed towards this Gold-rank adventurer.
Such rumors were turned on their head, and one had to, in fact, admire the way the [Queen] embarrassed the faintly-blushing [Armsmistress] without fear of…well, everything. Indeed, though the allies of Manager Bnirm raged, they did so privately.
It was said that the Minister of Defense privately stormed to a meeting of his colleagues, who sat in mild apprehension of this actually dangerous team, and made a simple demand.
“Find me any team, any adventurer who can put these Horns of Hammerad to shame. [Assassins]! Poison! Whatever it takes!”
The bearing out of such plans was, of course, a later tale, but it marked the value the Horns had to the Queen and all of their allies. If the Silver Killer was to be likened to a dog at all—something that one would best do when she was asleep, far away from her, behind closed doors, in another city—then she was more bite than bark.
Nor was she that tame nor would it be wise to stray within arm’s reach of her. Even at the very meeting in which Queen Yisame forgave the Horns of Hammerad their numerous crimes and pardoned the ‘Traitorous Three’—and every other [Gladiator] who had fought with the Horns—there was a small incident.
Nothing more than two [Princes] bickering. Prince Zenol of House Isphel, who had made it known he was a great friend of the Horns of Hammerad, had led the applause of their feats, whereupon Prince Esceit of House Quarein had insulted him.
A safe action given how much stronger House Quarein was than Isphel…or not, because it was uttered in the presence of the Silver Killer. It was said she turned on the spot and challenged Prince Esceit and his escort to a duel of honor—in the very same arena still stained with the Champion of Monarchs’ blood.
Prince Esceit refused, of course, citing his unwillingness to duel over a remark, even by proxy, much less with a foreigner. It was at this point that the Silver Killer insisted that if a duel was not to take place in the arena, it might well be here and now. With the [Prince] himself.
By then, such was the understanding of the citizens of Nerrhavia’s Fallen that when word and image came of Prince Esceit running from the palace’s steps, screaming and fleeing into the city from the Silver Killer, he was judged not a coward, but a sensible, intelligent man.
Thus, the adventures of the Horns of Hammerad continued.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet rather liked the recounting of his team’s adventures when you put it like that. He was lounging in the open window on the second floor of the Palace, and it seemed the people of Nerrhavia’s Fallen rather had a Hraacian-like ability to tell stories.
This particular retelling of events was from one [Servant] to another. A girl telling a boy around her age the entire event, perhaps flirting as well. Who could say?
Not him, according to Colth. Anyways, Pisces was resting. Yvlon was asleep, having the most to heal, and Colth and Ceria had gone off to debrief and capitalize on their fame. Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace were celebrating and basking in their own fame…
He should really get to know more of them than just Delitandra by name. They’d pulled their weight in this last affray. Without them…well, Pisces just wondered what levels Yvlon would get.
Unstoppable. He knew they’d helped, but she had just done it all from start to finish with her unique style. He had to keep up with her. That final attack thing had proven Pisces needed to have one or two. Something catchy.
He was brainstorming ideas as he fiddled with some new bones he’d obtained. Not Lenxiol’s—Pisces hadn’t had the heart to loot his corpse. But he’d obtained some rather fine Manticore bones…
“Pisces? You okay?”
The [Necromancer] glanced up. Elena had found him. Her voice was scratchy from all the commentating she’d done; he’d not even heard her, he’d been so focused on the fighting. She had some honey tea in her hand, and she offered him some too.
“Heck of a day, huh? Does this happen often?”
“More than one expects, though I doubt I shall become used to the sensation. I apologize for not considering you; Yvlon was wary for me and I for my own hide, but we completely forgot we weren’t merely the four of us.”
She accepted his apology with a bright smile.
“After seeing you all in action, I think I’d better get used to stating my objections and advocating for myself. From Yvlon deciding it was time to free her friends—even if she had a plan—to you summoning a Bone Giant, you all do whatever you want!”
Pisces flushed, but she continued, voice level.
“And Ceria murdering a man after he begged for mercy, of course.”
The [Necromancer] sat up a bit, and he recalled that too. The expression on her face was so…he hadn’t made an issue of it. Yvlon had not either, but Pisces rather suspected the bloodloss had more to do with that than peace with Ceria’s decision. As for Colth, Pisces bet the [Supporter] would have done the same thing, albeit more stealthily.
His comment was simple.
“Then was hardly the time to argue. Now we are safe, we may reflect.”
“Okay. I…look, Cara’s had to do hard things, but that was something. Is it normal for you?”
“No. I think the Ceria of old wouldn’t have done that. But time changes one.”
“And the magical circlet she wears?”
“One may accept the supposition that yes, the circlet is affecting her judgment as well. Even when it is taken off, she seems to have…changed.”
Elena waited. She seemed to have expectations of Pisces’ intelligence and his own sense of morality. Rather disconcerting, that. He almost preferred to be overlooked. This Erin-like quality of perception made him fidget. Then he beckoned.
“Have a seat?”
She sat on the balcony next to him as he sat upright and gazed down into the courtyard fearlessly.
“Cute kids. If I fall, you can catch me with a spell, right?”
Mostly fearlessly. Pisces assured her that he could. After a moment, he made sure they were both [Invisible], [Muffled], and all the other spells you needed in a palace like this. And he handed her something.
It was…a letter.
Just a letter, albeit one that Pisces had taken from the pile of junk mail addressed to them and not commented on unlike Ceria and Yvlon. He rather suspected it would have found him even with the filter-system they would pay for. Elena read it as they sat together.
It was a simple missive, but he’d noticed it because it had been scribed via [Message] spell. Then paid for delivery by Courier. It read:
 
Dear Pisces,
The amulet that complements the circlet that Ceria Springwalker seeks is in Chandrar. The key to locating it is in the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes. If you value the Ceria you know, do not let her find it.
Sincerely,
—A friend of the inn.
 
Elena read and re-read the letter as Pisces sat for a while.
Pondering the future.
 
 
[Silversteel Armsmistress Level 47!]
[Skill – Power Jump Learned!]
[Skill – Berr’s Stare Learned!]
 
[Gladiator Level 12!]
[Skill — Reputation: Unpredictable Uncertainty obtained!]
[Skill — Savage Intimidation obtained!]
[Skill — Distracting Flash obtained!]
[Skill — Convincing Feint obtained]
 
 
[Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur Level 43!]
[Skill – Undead: Bonerattler Charge Obtained!]
 
 
[Avid Watcher Level 26!]
[Skill – Double Screen Watching Obtained!]
[Skill – Playback: My Favorite Scene Obtained!]
[Skill – Couch Potato Exercise Obtained!]

10.51 T (2025-11-23)

“I am not dictated by my class. I am more than mere levels and Skills. The day I am beholden to such things, kill me. Make sure to use my body well.”
It sounded like a quote of some kind. But the words were not addressed to any one person in particular.
A man stood at the prow of a ship, observing and musing. The closest person in earshot, a [Captain] who was rightly nervous of his passenger, hesitated.
“…Lord? To whom do you speak?”
The man turned, and his age was apparent in how he moved with a slightly hunched back and ponderous, careful movements. But his body was youthful enough. Or it should have been; instead of a forty year-old man’s body, it seemed to have aged decades in months. His hair had fallen out. His eyes sunken inwards slightly, and, most uncanny of all, the pupils had shifted. It seemed to some as though there were numbers floating in the depths of his gaze. His voice sounded ponderous, like a [Scribe]’s—but he was strong. And the swaying ship did not impede his steps at all.
Slave Lord Thatalocian looked at the [Captain of Cargo] once as one of Roshal’s tribute ships sailed across the vast sea, bound for the Blighted Kingdom. His eyes cast over four more, each one broad, practically a warship’s size, but potbellied, meant to hold neither weapons nor traditional objects. Their cargo could not be stuffed into Chests of Holding.
People. They sat in chains, linked together at the oars, though Roshal’s ships did not require rowing when the wind was filling their sails. [Slavemasters] with whips moved with patrols of bored [Guards], and the ship stank of sweat and fear that the sea breeze could not eradicate.
The [Captain of Cargo] was a man named ‘Thin’. Captain Thin, then, a nickname. He didn’t give out his real name, even to his employers. A real name meant you could be scried and was therefore a weakness. Even if he was on the side of Lailight Scintillation and sailed under Roshal’s aegis, Captain Thin knew that there were many dangers a man could get into.
Such as offending one of Roshal’s most important members. Why he had chosen a cargo ship to travel to Rhir, and not a Courier’s vessel or a warship, was beyond Thin. However, many things were unsettling about Roshal at this moment.
Every day, the winds blew, and dust streaked from the harbor city. Less and less now, but still, the city was filled with it. Dust where there had been people and buildings. Reconstruction had begun; it had been ongoing since the Winter Solstice. But one did not simply rebuild a city so fast. Not even with all the [Slaves] in the world.
The sight had shocked Thin to silence, and he and his crew had crept around the harbor like mice that first week they had visited after doing the Rhir run. Even now, fear and horror were etched into all there. Slave and master. They glanced up at the sky, sometimes, as if expecting a second time to see a spell coming from above. From Khelt.
If there were a name or idea it was forbidden to speak in Lailight Scintillation, well, it would be a rainbow or the Death of Chains’ name. Merely invoking the Deaths of Demons earned even freemen a whipping. But if there were two names now held in fear and horror, they would be Czautha, the Death of Chains, and Fetohep of Eternal Khelt. The Goblin Lord did not count, for all she had done; she was a Goblin in the end. Her horror was that of the Goblin King, and more than one had razed Roshal’s holdings in ages past. And she was dead.
No, it was the undead they now feared, who might well strike them again in his wrath. That slumbering Revenant had dealt Roshal a blow the likes of which it could not remember in this age. Not since the Creler Wars had the city been laid so low. Not even the Death of Chains herself had achieved so much abject destruction.
Children and adults. Slaves and masters. They had died in a single moment as a Tier 7 spell hit the city. That was why Thin was almost grateful to be on this mind-numbingly boring run to Rhir with the usual delivery of cargo. Boring because he knew the route by heart, even with the sealanes amuck. Dangerous because there was always the possibility of pirate attacks, monsters, usual seafaring disasters—and Demons.
If you saw a rainbow or a comet streaking across the sky as you sailed one of Roshal’s blacksail ships, you would touch any lucky symbol you had and pray—pray it was just a celestial phenomenon. Or that someone else died.
It was not an easy job Captain Thin had. And it was true Roshal had suffered greatly of late. But for every ill turn, there was a gain. Roshal had now five [Slave Lords] and [Slave Ladies], each of whom was said to be as cunning and dangerous as Emir Yazdil.
Where had they come from? A mystery. Why they seemed to be in accord, if not always agreement? Confounding, for the many rulers of Roshal were known to infight. Yet these were united.
What was clear was that these were no pretenders. No imitators of their levels and Skills. Lesser masters of Roshal had tested the waters. Arranged for a few [Assassins] to make attempts. Placed themselves against these usurpers.
The lucky ones were dead. Captain Thin had personally seen a particularly odious Slave Master Ulthub, too greedy and excessive by far, and not the cleverest sort, being collared on his last visit to port. The man had screamed and screamed until the magical bindings around his neck had locked shut.
No pity from Thin, though he’d wondered how a pampered Slave Master like Ulthub would be of any use, even as a menial servant. The one who’d overseen the collaring, the Slave Lady Andra, had been of the same opinion.
She had raised a trembling hand as she sat in a floating chair, and Thin had been afraid to gaze at her face. Half her head was gone, but where she should be dead, a strange vaporous substance seemed to be oozing from her head. It didn’t seem like it…hurt. Her voice was shaky as she had spoken.
“The collar is a w-waste. Take this one to the [Alchemists]. M-marked for experimental testing.”
Then she collapsed into her chair and was like a corpse until her servants turned the floating dais back to her holdings. A minute later, she’d jerked up and began to write in a scroll by her side.
Terrifying. Thin had heard tell that she’d been wounded in another attack on Roshal. That she’d survived…what level or what kind of Skill must one have to keep existing like that?
And here he was ferrying another of the five to the Blighted Kingdom. Of the five, Thin was wariest of this man. Because he did not know Slave Lord Thatalocian.
The other four had established themselves by reputation.
Emir Yazdil, the foremost master of Roshal…until now. Cunning, intelligent, impossible to trick, in command of powerful servants and possessed of mercurial tastes. A danger if crossed, but content to let Roshal operate as it willed unless their interests should go against his own.
Clothbinder Lady Shaullile. A Drake woman with a strange title, youngest of the six by far. The most charming as well. The one who managed Roshal’s relationships with other nations and whose [Slaves] were almost entirely Stitch-folk. It was said she refused to acknowledge other Stitch-folk even if they were freefolk or other masters of Roshal.
Slave Lord Pazeral. A man of violent and sudden passions, the most classic of the lot. He went through [Slaves] as they caught his fancy, and he was deadly with a blade. It was said he could appear anywhere he pleased, and he had a command of magic and swordsmanship on par with a Named-rank adventurer.
Administrator of Chains Andra. Now wounded, but still occupying her role as some kind of…[Secretary]? She had requested to run Roshal’s harbor and markets, not directly replacing the [Harbormaster], but as a kind of overseer. She dealt in paperwork more than flesh and demanded only [Slaves] who were superior in mathematics and literature.
And last of all…the mysterious Thatalocian, who had not given his title. He was merely ‘Numerologist Thatalocian’ or ‘Slave Lord Thatalocian’; generic titles.
Of the others, he was an unknown to Captain Thin because he hadn’t immediately absorbed other masters’ holdings and created a financial base of power—at least, visibly. He had refrained from wielding his considerable wealth and relationships to do more than tour Roshal. It was said that he had been found in the poorest Slave Markets in Roshal to the very sewers, inspecting and speaking numbers—but what sort of a master of Roshal had no attendants, no servants? Not even a bodyguard.
Then again, perhaps that had won him his own support among the [Slave Masters] grateful he wasn’t taking their property. Thatalocian certainly had needed nothing but his name to book this transport. He was, then, rich in favors, which was a currency of its own in Roshal.
Thatalocian wore white robes with golden embroidery—not numbers as you might expect, but hourglasses, leaves, even flowers. It looked almost childish, but again, he gave off that weight of age.
He hadn’t responded to Captain Thin’s question. His head had turned, but he had stared at the sweating [Captain of Cargo] for nearly six minutes straight before Captain Thin dared ask again.
“Milord? Was…was that question asked of me?”
“Six. Two. Twenty, eight, nine, fourteen.”
And now he was doing the numbers things again. Captain Thin hesitated, and Thatalocian’s eyes flicked past him.
“Your name, Captain ‘Thin’. A nickname will do if it is the name you are known by. Is it?”
“Y-yes, Slave Lord. It is. If I am interrupting you, I beg your pardons. I merely wondered if you required a response.”
He might have knelt on the decks were he not in view of his crew and uncertain if that was what the man desired. Captain Thin was a freeman; he had a house in Roshal and several house-[Slaves], but he wasn’t considered a master of Roshal. He did not need to kneel, but…
Thatalocian stared past Captain Thin as he spoke, his eyes crossing the waves.
“I shall explain. Six. It was six minutes I waited until you dared to ask me a second question. Two. It has been two days since we left Lailight Scintillation.”
“Yes, Lord. It should not be another night at sea; we will reach the Blighted Kingdom, all things willing, by sundown. The Jars of Wind have not stopped blowing, and this route was not touched by the New Lands.”
Roshal’s ships moved fast for fear of being intercepted. They had, after all, very valuable cargo. Tens of thousands of gold pieces’ worth of [Slaves] and more material to tithe to the Blighted Kingdom. Captain Thin could be rightly proud of how much gold he’d brought to the Blighted Kingdom. It was a service to fight the Demons, and if another man dared spit at him for working for Roshal, Captain Thin’s first rejoinder would be the tithe Roshal gave, which could match any ten nations you chose to name. His second rejoinder would be his cutlass, of course.
Thatalocian didn’t respond to the news about the voyage. He merely continued in that level tone. Patiently explaining.
“20-8-9-14. Your name, Captain Thin. These are the factors I have chosen to consider. Should I require more insights, I would need other numbers. Unique numbers are best. Had you, for instance, only eight fingers, or if I were to witness the number of times you chewed your breakfast. These are small numbers to a [Numerologist], but at my level, they serve.”
“I…I see. What does one do with the numbers, Lord?”
The strange eyes of Thatalocian flashed, and his pupils seemed warped. As if the number ‘2’ were written in his irises, just for a moment. Or was it just Thin’s imagination…? His lips curled upwards, bloodlessly, in a smile.
“Whatever I wish. The numbers are meant to serve my means. Truth or weapons. Insight. So, then. Fifty-one. The sum of your name. Twenty-five and a half. Inauspicious; divided by the days of our company, I come to no number I can use.”
He didn’t acknowledge numbers with decimal points? Captain Thin didn’t truck with that sort of mathematics himself, but it was an odd rule. Thatalocian raised a finger.
“Ah, but there is meaning the other way. Fifty-one and two. 102. And six. Seventeen, then.”
It…what did seventeen mean? But to Thatalocian, there was entire meaning in this strange arithmetic. He nodded to himself.
“My numerology informs me of certainty. Seventeen is the number I shall watch for. My trip, then, will not be in vain. I will discover at least one whom I wish to meet.”
“A [Slave], Lord? The Blighted Kingdom uses our [Slaves] and sells them seldom, but there are rules—and my name isn’t—I beg pardons, but I am not such an important man to matter, let alone to make much of.”
Captain Thin was doubly nervous; getting in trouble with the Blighted Kingdom was risky. But Thatalocian just flicked his fingers.
“Seventeen. I have calculated the number. Do not fear, Captain Thin. Should I fail in any regard, I would be foolish to blame you. My numbers are not infallible; I have seen them break and shatter before. It is merely…think of it as a [Sailor]’s charm for good luck. Just as a man kisses a shell from his homeland’s shore, or a lover’s pendant, so too do I create my own fortune. Seventeen. Perhaps it is how many I will find. Or a signal to what I seek. But it is clear: I do not seek you. With your pardons.”
He started walking down the deck. Captain Thin jumped; he hadn’t been aware he’d been in consideration for…to be the man’s [Slave]? No, no, that was ridiculous. He was a freeman! Then…
“To be your aide, sir? Your personal [Captain]?”
That would be no small elevation. Captain Thin hurried after Thatalocian, hoping to earn more points, but the [Numerologist] merely shook his head.
“It took you six minutes to dare to ask me a question, Captain Thin. It is not numerology but the product of my ears and mind that states you are not the man I seek.”
That annoyed the [Captain of Cargo]. He might not be some warship’s captain, but he’d fought off plenty of threats! He replied, a bit of heat in his tone.
“I was merely being respectful, Lord. That is not the sort of thing one uses to judge a man’s worth, surely?”
Thatalocian was walking by the chained [Slaves] in their berth. He was counting.
“…eight…nine…”
Any fool could see what he was counting towards. He swung his head towards Thin once.
“By what do you measure a man’s worth, Captain Thin?”
The question had a surprising amount of force behind it. Captain Thin wavered, and put on the spot, he blurted out the truth.
“The strength of a man’s arm. How loyal he is. How likely he is to run in a fight. Their knowledge of the sea and deck.”
“All fine attributes. I value these things as you do. But they are not first. Not to me. Not loyalty. Not strength. Nor intelligence or cunning or so many factors.”
So was he a man who left such things to chance? Thin frowned.
“What, then, Lord Thatalocian?”
“The will to do what must be done. The strength of spirit is all. Sixteen. Seventeen. Ah. Perhaps here.”
He came to a row of [Slaves], all of whom appeared underfed and worthless to Thin’s eye. They were chained here probably as punishment. Dregs from the [Slave] markets, the expendable sort. The Blighted Kingdom had need of both skillful talent and menials. Thin waved a hand, truly vexed now. He lied to the [Numerologist].
“Had you the need, I’m sure any member of my crew would serve your employ well. And I would be happy to give them to such an important man as yourself, Lord! What could this lot do?”
The berth had two men well past their prime, a child, what might be their mother, and two scrawny children or teens; it was hard to tell, malnourished and dirty as they were, shaved to avoid lice.
Thatalocian stroked his chin.
“It may not be this seventeen. Do not mistake me, Captain Thin. Numerology is no…science. It is close to divination. More shamanism than magecraft. More occultism than sorcery.”
That made no sense at all. What was occultism? Thin resolved to find a dictionary as he folded his arms.
“And if this was the seventeen?”
“Then it might be this child. Or this man. You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve?”
He asked them a question, and their heads swung from him to Thin; they didn’t even know if Thatalocian was a master. Moreover, would the question land them in trouble or…?
“What use could the child be, Lord Thatalocian? Except as entertainment of some kind or the lowest menial?”
Captain Thin had overstepped himself in his frustration. Thatalocian’s eyes flashed in annoyance. He turned slowly.
“If the will endures, nothing else is needed. I would put a child, bladeless and shackled, against you, Captain Thin, if I saw the look in their eyes was right. I have seen children fight monsters and triumph where grown men, strong men died. [Soldiers] are very well and good; I let Pazeral marshal them and march about. [Soldiers] break before horrors. Brave men claw their eyes out rather than face something they cannot comprehend. I seek those who can endure. Why should I not search for [Slaves] who are so ill-treated? They have survived this. Would you survive until this place?”
Captain Thin was getting more and more disconcerted—and angrier at the idea of a freeman such as himself being chained, or even implied to it.
“I’ve committed no crimes, and I am no debtor, Lord. To imply I should be shackled is an offense! And if I was chained for some offence? I would win my freedom within the year!”
It did happen. A [Slave] saved a master or did some valorous deed and they were freed. Or if they found treasure, it was a common reward. Masters even married their [Slaves] and freed them out of love.
But Thatalocian’s lip just curled.
“The numbers were wise indeed not to point me towards you, Captain Thin. You boast of your deeds with a full belly on the deck of your ship. A fool’s tongue. Such an unpleasant novelty of this time. When I lived, few spoke thus who did not know themselves. It seems this is the way of all now.”
Thin turned crimson at the insult. But he held his tongue out of confusion as much as anything else. When I lived…?
“If I may withdraw, Lord? If you wish to free these [Slaves], their price must be paid.”
“I shall weigh their numbers. Your company I did not ask for, Captain Thin.”
The [Captain] spun on his heel. He marched away rather than embarrass or endanger himself further. Only when he’d gone to the prow of the ship to stew in his anger did he wonder—if Thatalocian had not been speaking to him, then who were the words for?
 
——
 
 
“I am not dictated by my class. I am more than mere levels and Skills. The day I am beholden to such things, kill me. Make sure to use my body well.”
—Holder of Numbers, Binderlord Thatalocian, Twilight of Magic. Date Lost.
 
Dozing under the burning sun. The lashes burned in the salt air, but it was better than the cells that stank of piss and blood. Drifting off as the ship rocked…
Until the voice spoke. Then the girl jolted awake, terrified and thinking she was about to earn another lash—but no one was around her. She did not understand; the rest of the others on her bench were dozing. Holding the painful oars but not called upon to work, skin reddening under the sun.
She turned her head left and right as far as the chains connected to her iron collar would allow. The rusted metal chafed her skin, but it was already coarse, and she barely felt that. Hunger…hunger was always there, and it made the sunburns, the lashes, and everything else recede. It also made it easier to sleep, but for the voice.
When she saw the strange man walking down the decks with the [Captain] in tow, she recognized the voice at once. Even so…she didn’t expect him to stop. Let alone sweep his eyes over her.
The girl listened to the strange conversation he had with the [Captain] until the man stormed away. Then the [Slave Lord] stood there. And his eyes swept over them.
I will weigh their numbers.
The [Numerologist] inspected each [Slave] in turn, then asked the question again.
“You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve?”
This time, he got a response. Not from her, but from one of the older men, who bowed deep.
“To serve you is the highest honor, Lord.”
It was the wrong answer. The moment he spoke, the [Numerologist]’s eyes flickered. He lifted a hand.
“Not you. So once again, I forget. Not me.”
He spoke as enigmatically to them as Captain Thin. The old man flinched, but no blow came, and he seemed confused as he shrank back, spindly arms covering his chest which showed all his ribs. Next to him was a Stitch-man, almost as old, and mother and child.
Had he avoided a terrible fate or…? The girl didn’t know. She was Human, bound for the Blighted Kingdom, they said. She wasn’t sure if this man was better than Rhir’s Hell or not.
He might be far, far worse than being killed by Demons or whatever was in store. It was said that if you were lucky, you might be merely made servants in the Blighted Kingdom. If you were unlucky, they’d put you on a farm fighting the menaces in the soil in the outer regions. If you were very, very lucky, they might make you citizens. It was better than Lailight Scintillation’s Slave Markets.
“Again. You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve? I will punish none of you for answering wrongly. Remain silent and you will continue to wherever this voyage takes you.”
None of them believed that, of course. But the question had to be asked, so the Stitch-man in line asked as the two teenagers and Stitch-mother held their tongues.
“Serve…who, Lord? Whom are we to serve if not you?”
Perhaps he was some buyer looking on behalf of a master? But he had been called ‘Lord’ by the Captain. Thatalocian’s reply was pleased.
“Roshal.”
Again, the [Slaves] were confused, and even some of the guards and crew listening in glanced at each other. Were they to be used as public servants of some kind? Cleaning the docks? That…might be worth it. Thatalocian saw the confusion in their eyes and clarified again, which unclarified things even more.
“Not the city of Lailight Scintillation. Nor any one master. The nation, if we are such, or the idea alone. Roshal, or perhaps, merely the world. If not even the world, then sanity.”
“S-sanity, Lord?”
The Stitch-man asked, as if convinced Thatalocian had lost his. And that answer disqualified him. The [Numerologist] turned away.
“What else could be worth serving and protecting? You, mother.”
He waited, and the mother took a gamble and held her child up, the chains clinking so Thatalocian could see the Stitch-boy.
“I will serve, Master. If you take my child with me, we will serve Roshal and sanity with all we have!”
A calculated risk, but again—failure. Thatalocian glanced down.
“You are this child’s mother?”
She nodded; whether or not that was strictly true, the girl didn’t know. Mothers sometimes took care of children who were abandoned. It was true in every sense that mattered, and the child certainly clung to her, so she wasn’t doing this as a ploy; she was skinnier than the others, and she might have given food up for the child.
Thatalocian peered down at the child and mother. And his eyes seemed to glow.
“Two. No. A pair of numbers intertwined make no sense unless…tell me your names.”
The woman did, and the [Numerologist] effortlessly translated them to numbers. Added them together. Subtracted them. He found nothing that squared with seventeen or whatever he was looking for.
“No.”
She sagged in her chains, though it was still unclear if she were spared or…but it seemed her courage had won some approval. The Slave Lord turned.
“This child, this deck, is underfed. Roshal does not want for food even now, even at sea. Feed them.”
He addressed a [Slavemaster], and the woman with the whip licked her lips.
“The Captain does not reward [Slaves] unless they’ve survived storm or attack, Lord—overfeeding them makes them rowdy. We’re almost to port, and then the Blighted Kingdom will—”
She had taken the wrong cue from Captain Thin. The [Numerologist] was annoyed. He spoke.
“Now.”
The single word jolted the [Slavemaster] and her [Guards] into motion. They were running down the deck towards the ship’s hold before they slowed. They turned, saw Thatalocian staring at them—ran faster.
Captain Thin seemed askance and ready to protest when food meant for the crew came up and was ladled into dishes and thrust into disbelieving [Slaves]’ hands. They ate feverishly, terrified they’d be beaten or it would be taken away. Thatalocian watched for a moment, then addressed the two teens, the girl included.
“We near the harbor. I have not looked upon Rhir’s shores my entire life. Only heard whispers of a land so foul that even the Those-That-Rise who clawed their way into the Long Night died there. They tell me it is a kingdom now. I will not remain there, but return to Roshal. Do you have the will to serve?”
The young man remained silent next to the girl. He was shaking, but he had decided whatever this [Numerologist] was, he was too powerful. She understood; if he could order a [Slavemaster] around, he was a powerful man, and mere [Slaves] would surely be expendable to him.
However…she had heard his voice. She made the mistake of glancing up, just once, wanting to see something of his face even if she said nothing.
That was all it took. She saw he was indeed balding, old, and humbler than most Slave Masters with their fine clothing. He seemed almost like a…a hermit of some kind. Or the old man who lived in the lighthouse that guided ships into port. An old keeper.
But not a weary one. She gazed into his eyes and saw that they were cloud-grey. But his pupils…
They were numbers. Two different ones in the flash of a moment.
0 and 6.
She gasped. Flinched and clapped a hand to her mouth in a rattle of chains, but it was too late. He saw the motion and his eyes lit, no longer numbers but intent.
“You.”
“N-no! I don’t have the will, Master! I don’t—you surely were not speaking to me.”
She protested, voice raw, coughing, and he stooped lower.
“You heard me. Unchain this one. What is your name, girl?”
Now Captain Thin was peering over, incredulous, and the girl was terrified. And—hopeful? Hope was something she had thought damned again and again, but it kept appearing.
Hope she might survive and reach the Blighted Kingdom. Hope when she saw the food she had yet to taste. Hope in small things. Even if it was dashed again and again—she had hoped the Bane of Roshal might liberate her when she had been taken to pay her parents’ debts. Hoped she would see a rainbow and hear the [Slavers] tormenting her die.
Even now…Thatalocian stooped and gazed into her eyes.
“If you heard my voice, that too matters. That is no trick of numbers, merely the work of my other classes. [The Seeking Words] find those I value, just like my numbers do. As I said, I am not one class. Even numerology is but a skill to serve.”
She did not understand. But she babbled that she had heard, and when she repeated what he had said, he nodded.
“What is your name, girl? You are now among my company. Whether you are chained or shed them, you and I will travel together until I return to Roshal.”
Her heart leapt at that. Hope, that treacherous [Rogue], slipped her chains of it, and she answered.
“Faea, Master!”
And then his face shifted. He recoiled—and his excitement became an expression of regret. Thatalocian lowered his hands and exhaled.
“Ah. But I still listen to the numbers. Alas.”
She did not get it, not until he spelled it out for her.
“6-1-5-1. Thirteen. A number that has always had meaning for meetings and gatherings. You and I…we shall see.”
What did that—? Then Faea was afraid again, but the [Slavers] were already unshackling her chains. Just because of her name, he had decided…? She stumbled after him, not sure what to do. The Slave Lord stood on the deck like a mourner for a moment. But after he turned and saw her longingly gazing at the soup pot, he approached. She flinched, but he simply took the ladle, filled the bowl, and handed her a spoon.
So then. She began to eat until she was close to being sick, and he told her to eat slower or she would hurt herself, and she tried. Was he a monster or a ‘good master’?
She did not know, but if Thatalocian could have heard the private thoughts in her head, he would have had a simple answer:
“Whatever I am and become, it is clawing to keep the door of sanity open. To hold onto meaning, however much it frays.”
He had been born before all of the Slave Lords except Pazeral and Loerhin. Thatalocian was third-oldest of them all, and he had lived in a time not even Pazeral had dreamed of. The Long Night, when magic died.
He supposed…what he understood of Roshal was different from what they did.
 
——
 
The slave-ships docked and unloaded their cargo. It was an orderly process; [Slavemasters] cracked whips over the heads of [Slaves] filing out onto the docks, where officials of the Blighted Kingdom made lists and processed each [Slave] into the places they would first go.
These were not the main docks where warships and trading vessels docked. Because of the sensibilities of other nations, like the [Knights] who came to crusade from Terandria, the slave-ships of Roshal used private docks. Here, the [Slaves] piled onto the less-beautiful pier, which was still watched by rings of guard-towers and barrier spells, and stood in lines.
The last dregs from the cages sometimes had to be dragged out because they were too weak to move. Those that had expired on the voyage were usually tossed overboard when found, but if they had passed away here, they were not summarily thrown into the harbor. Instead…a hooded figure in black robes passed by the [Slavemasters].
A [Necromancer]. Even corpses had a use in the Blighted Kingdom, and the [Slaves] shuddered and realized they were in Hell. And Hell or Lailight Scintillation, which was worse? This was the kingdom of the unending war against Demons. Death could be anywhere.
—Yet Thatalocian seemed to view the Blighted Kingdom as a surprise. He was peering around like a fascinated owl, tilting his head left and right, blinking at the shining city beyond, which glowed with bright metals and a beauty that Faea longed to see. It was far less bright than Chandrar’s shores here; there was a weird pall to the skies that made her feel it was always more cloudy than light, but the Blighted Kingdom shone, as if the ground were bright enough to make up for the skies.
“I should explain, then. However much time we are in each other’s company. I have grown out of practice, explaining. I did not explain well to the Emir Yazdil, though he attempted understanding. If there are more in my company, I must explain.”
That was what he said to Faea as they stood on the ships being disembarked. She jumped; she didn’t realize she merited being addressed. But Thatalocian was not speaking just to her. His eyes swept the crew, the [Guards], and because she was with him, Faea saw the same thing happen.
One of the [Guards] twitched and glanced around. Then nudged the others around them. They peered around, then went back to standing. Thatalocian winked one eye at Faea.
“Both of you are now in my service.”
Again, the figure below jumped as he spoke. Then Thatalocian was striding down the gangplanks.
“You hear my words.”
“What—? Yes, sir!”
A startled man snapped to attention. He was a Stitch-man, tanned of skin and young, one of the many [Guards] who kept [Slaves] from being unruly. But he had heard Thatalocian. Just like Faea.
“You have heard a strange voice speaking. It was mine. My words sought you out. Follow me.”
“I—yes, Slave Lord, but my captain, my duty—”
The Stitch-man pointed to the Slave Master he was supposed to guard, but the nervous man waved him off. He turned to his [Captain]—not Thin, but another [Captain]—and the woman, a Naga, bowed instantly.
“Wherever he goes, you are to follow. You understand? Lord Thatalocian, do you wish for the entire patrol…?”
“No. Only those who heard my voice. Your name?”
“L-Lintl, Lord Thatalocian.”
“12-9-14-20-12. Hm. A fine enough name. ‘Twere all the letters more than ten, it would be a name to move the numbers about, in order to understand. That is another easy pattern, Faea.”
“Yes, Master.”
She stood there, and the [Guard], Lintl, hesitated as he looked at his fellow [Guards], who were giving him wide-eyed glances. But Thatalocian just beckoned, and they stood to the side of the gangplanks.
“Explanations. I am Thatalocian. You may address me how you please. Slave Lord is the address used today. It was not so when I lived. I was then called ‘Holder of Numbers’ or Binderlord by both those of Roshal and those who knew me.”
Faea exchanged glances with Lintl, for he was as confused as she until he yanked his eyes away and glowered. She kept her gaze low and on the ground; he at least knew how she should be behaving.
Yet Thatalocian was trying to explain, and clearly, he desired a response this time, so, because Lintl was still processing this, Faea dared ask. She was already having a surreal waking dream. Why not push it farther if she was in fact dying of heatstroke on the ship?
“What do you mean, M—Binderlord, when you say ‘when I lived’? When you lived in Roshal? Elsewhere?”
His lips curved upwards.
“No. When I lived my first life. I died and wandered as a ghost on Chandrar’s soils as all did. Until I was given the chance to live once more. I am a long-dead ghost returned to mortality. Andra…is almost a ghost once more. They tell me I am so old I predate written records. I am many times older than this Blighted Kingdom.”
This time, Lintl and Faea exchanged another glance and moved back from Thatalocian in the way people avoided the mad. He said it so matter-of-factly it raised every hair on Faea’s body. She shivered, for he was insane…
“Ah, you do not believe.”
“I—I do, Lord.”
She lied, and he smiled.
“You do not. This is well. I shall prove it to you. Belief is a fine thing to have. It is enough to know that I am old and higher level than any but the other Slave Lords and Yazdil. When I lived, my levels were not so rare. I was one of my peers. But those who pass Level 50, or Level 60, seem to be exceedingly rare. There were a hundred such in Roshal when we gathered to repel one of Those-That-Rise.”
What did she say to that? Prove it? She had a feeling he could. Thatalocian turned to Lintl.
“I have recruited Faea as one who might serve Roshal and this world, or sanity if nothing else. Though I fear her number weighs heavily. Do you understand?”
“No, sir. I know of you, of course. But how does one serve…sanity? I’m just a Level 13 [Guard], sir. This is my 6th voyage. I don’t know more than to crew a ship.”
Lintl was plainly in fear of his life. Thatalocian smiled warmly.
“I chose you because my class, the numbers, and my Skills found you and Faea. Think of me as a [Soothsayer] in part. I just use numbers rather than their methods. As to your other question, it is simple. To serve Roshal, we do what they need. We are soldiers when war comes. Agents of justice when needed—it is the work of any [Lord] in a fiefdom. You may fill this role. But to serve sanity is far, far simpler. All you must do is bring meaning out of irrationality.”
Someone please take me with you. Faea didn’t really mean that—but she cast an eye at the lines of [Slaves] anyways. Thatalocian sighed.
“It is not that difficult. Perhaps it is because you have never seen sanity fray. What is the word for Those-That-Rise now? Ah, yes. Seamwalkers.”
Now, every head turned at the name of that horror, and some of the Blighted Kingdom’s officials glanced at this stranger, but a few of Roshal’s own intercepted them, whispering and explaining him no doubt. Thatalocian touched under one eye.
“The horrors from beyond the edge of the world. I have seen thousands. Slain few with my bare hands, for I am no great warrior. But when I lived, they rose unending to devour a world where magic had died. To look upon them is to find your grasp of the world slipping. Men and women lose their minds to even behold what does not make sense. That is what it is to defend sanity.”
“Kill Seamwalkers?”
Lintl was shaking now, holding his plain steel spear, but Thatalocian’s huge hand was gentle upon his shoulder.
“No, boy. You are not ready for that. Defending sanity comes in far easier ways. Let me explain it now to you as I would a child in Roshal. If you wish to defend sanity, bring meaning to the world. So. Do you have clothing?”
“Yes. In my cabin…?”
“Fetch it before we depart. When you go to sleep this night, Lintl, lay your clothing out. Do you know how to fold it well? Fold each shirt and stack them together. Shirts in a single pile, pants in another. Or by color. If you wish, make a pattern of them. This small action is enough.”
Something about how he said that…made sense to the two. It was stupid, but Thatalocian lifted a hand, forestalling comments.
“This will not stave off the insanity of Those-That-Rise in the flesh. But it is some measure of sanity, of normalcy. It is the power of order, patterns, and what you bring to your room and clothing you shall wear about you. If all in a city do this, then it is some small measure of sanity. That is how one serves sanity. These ships are a greater example.”
He waved at the ships moored at the docks. Thatalocian tapped the hull of one with his knuckles. He had, Faea realized, a lantern at his side. An odd tool—it looked like he’d carved all kinds of things into the metal.
“The sea is vast and dark. If you were floating on your back in the midnight waters, you might well go insane from the vast terror of it. At least, the landfolk do. Even Drowned Folk fear being alone. Loneliness is another gnawing force at sanity for some. But the sea—how does one bring sanity to the sea?”
“A ship.”
Faea’s answer was correct, and though Lintl jerked at her speaking up without permission, Thatalocian’s smile was approving.
“A ship is meaning. Safety. A house is sanity against the dark night. A candle a ward against the darkness. Unless one can see in the dark, like a Goblin. They have different methods of sanity, and I welcome them all.”
“So…so I could fold clothing to serve you, Binderlord?”
That sounded good to Faea. Thatalocian scratched his chin.
“We shall see. I hope my numbers have brought me more than a [Launderer]. But then, any class of sufficient levels exceeds any other. I would trade an army a million strong for a single Level 80 [Beggar] in a heartbeat. Now come: I wish to see this Blighted Kingdom.”
The [Slaves] were leaving, and he began to stride after a group. Still talking. Lintl followed with Faea as the rest of the [Slavers] watched. Faea had to ask the obvious question.
“But why, Binderlord?”
Why come to the Blighted Kingdom? Thatalocian’s reply was simple.
“I wish to know if this great force is worth supporting. I am Roshal. The Emir Yazdil claims it so. I shall weigh their value, for what concerns the world concerns Roshal. If there is an ill to the world, we shall join against it.”
He spoke like he expected Roshal to fight. He spoke like Roshal did more than buy and sell [Slaves]. Then Faea saw his head turn and regard Captain Thin, and she recognized a vague contempt in his eyes.
Then—she began to hope again, that treacherous feeling.
 
——
 
New [Slaves] to the Blighted Kingdom were given a shock: after being processed off the ships, they were immediately brought to holding areas and fed.
A generous meal, almost always soup with flatbread and given in doses so their stomachs wouldn’t be damaged from the deprivation, but enough to fill them up over the course of hours.
This was not merely to keep them alive from the privations of sea, however short; it was a calculated act.
Much like how new officers in Rhir were given tests to make sure they could work together, it was policy of the Blighted Kingdoms to awe the [Slaves] with generosity. Washed bedding, first aid for their wounds, if not actual potions these days, and rest.
After all, what inspired [Slaves] to toil and work harder than hope? They surely knew they were in Hell, but the Blighted Kingdom was the bulwark against it. Even a [Slave] had purpose.
It was as the [Slaves] were fed, then, that the [Recruiters] and officials came back and gave the [Slaves] a choice. They would be sorted according to their classes or physiques into suitable occupations.
Mostly as menial-work or hands for farms and so on—not enviable jobs, though if they were loyal and demonstrated their ability to level or be a credit, citizenship was well within reach. The officials would cite how many [Slaves] had been elevated to citizen this year, a number always in the tens of thousands.
Then, to the round-eyed [Slaves], the [Recruiters] would make their pitch: earn your freedom right now. Join the army.
“Any man, woman, or even child who swears to fight the Demons will be freed on the spot and be accorded the rights of any citizen! You will be a [Soldier] for ten years, or if you are a child under the age of fourteen, trained until you can begin service. Afterwards, you may well retire with pay or continue to serve the Blighted Kingdom in any way you please, even journey from Rhir!”
Ten years. Being a [Soldier] for that long…? The [Recruiters] used their Skills. Appealed to the likeliest candidates, and if a few began to volunteer, many, or sometimes all, would choose that.
If they refused, well, the Blighted Kingdom had [Slaves] anyways. This batch, it looked to be a hundred out of nearly eight times that ready to enlist.
The [Head Recruiter] was dressed in polished armor, impressing upon the [Slaves] that even the meanest [Soldier] of the Blighted Kingdom was far, far better trained and equipped than a [Soldier] of Reim or a Walled City. Fed too.
However…there was something off about today. He couldn’t understand why, and one of the officials kept checking her lists.
“Something wrong, Chrine?”
He murmured as one of the other [Recruiters] took over. She was checking the names and numbers of [Slaves]. They had to update the lists with dead [Slaves], but the Blighted Kingdom let no data go to waste. The woman, a Dullahan, shook her head.
“No. I—I keep counting, because I think we’re off…but the numbers add up. We had 17 deaths, 1 freed [Slave] enroute—and there should be 865 people here. My headcount is 850.”
The [Head Recruiter] did the math.
“865 – 17 – 1 is…84750.”
“Yes, exactly. It is…it is that, isn’t it?”
Embarrassed, the woman rubbed at her eyes.
“I must be low on sleep. I’m sorry, Kobl. Don’t mind me.”
He flashed her a smile and wondered if she’d have time to share a drink after work. Relationships between fellow workers was encouraged as long as the power dynamics weren’t imbalanced. More children between capable people was good for the Blighted Kingdom in the long run…but the child-killing curse that the Death of Magic had laid on the Blighted Kingdom still tore at the heartstrings.
Still, he had to admit something felt a bit…weird today. Kobl glanced around and saw a likely candidate for the army.
A huge man—no, damn, he looked sixty or older! He was hunched over and eating some soup next to a Stitch-man in—armor? Kobl frowned.
“Is that one of Roshal’s [Guards] or are they arming [Slaves]?”
He pointed, amazed no one had called this out. They had guards in case a [Slave] was a spy or simply dangerous. A [Soldier] strode over, and the big fellow glanced up. He lifted a hand, spoke, and the [Soldier] came back.
“He says they’re just here to observe, Recruiter Kobl.”
“Oh, very good then.”
Kobl relaxed and saluted the huge figure. A shame too. He seemed like he could have been a strong [Lineholder] or [Shieldman] if he were two decades younger. He went on with the recruitment, just wishing the old fellow would talk a bit quieter. He had a job to do.
 
——
 
“They organize well. I have not seen walls so mighty nor so many ships or soldiers arrayed together in such cohesion, again, in my life.”
“Never once, Binderlord?”
Faea was having a dream, but enjoying it. Lintl glowered at her as they followed the [Slaves] who hadn’t volunteered to join the army. Thatalocian handed her his bowl of soup, and she wolfed it as he shook his head.
“Armies…did not endure the Long Night well. In a thousand men, how many break when they see Those-That-Rise? A single swing could obliterate them all. And when one will breaks, more are likely to follow.”
“How did you make war then, Lord?”
Lintl was fascinated, even if he was buying into this a lot less than Faea. Thatalocian appeared confused.
“War? We never warred with Those-That-Rise, merely slew or repelled them as they came. To war is to assume we could win. Hunters fought alone or in groups. I would hear of Those-That-Rise that were a great threat and send what I had to kill it. If they failed, I would send more. Or close our gates, lock every shutter, and endure their assault until they wearied or left. If they breached the walls, we fought until they were dead or we.”
It sounded like a horror to make the Blighted Kingdom’s lives seem easy! Indeed, even some of the Blighted Kingdom’s [Soldiers] glanced back at Thatalocian, and Faea breathed.
“How could anyone survive, Thatalocian?”
That was her mistake. Instantly, Lintl cuffed her with one of his hands, hard enough that her head rang.
“You go too far, slave—!”
He snarled as she sagged against one wall, flinching and holding her hands up. He would have struck her again for daring to address Thatalocian without a title, but Thatalocian’s hand struck him.
The Stitch-man bounced off one wall, and the Blighted Soldiers whirled, blades drawn. But Thatalocian merely lifted a hand.
“I was disciplining one of my followers. Be at ease.”
“Do not do that outside, sir. You will alarm civilians. Violence against others is prohibited.”
One of the [Soldiers] sheathed his sword after a moment, and Thatalocian inclined his head. He stood over Lintl as the young man tried to steady himself.
“I told Faea she had permission to address me. Is it the way of Roshal to beat [Slaves] for the slip of a tongue?”
“She’s a [Slave], Lord—!”
“Is it the way of Roshal to punish for mistakes?”
Thatalocian placed a hand on Lintl’s neck and drew him closer. His sunken eyes bored into Lintl’s, and the young man shouted, afraid.
“Yes! They’re [Slaves]!”
“You say that as if it excuses everything. Is decency not a quality prized amongst masters?”
“Only if they want to be decent, Binderlord.”
Faea watched from behind Thatalocian, both delighted and afraid of Lintl’s revenge. The [Numerologist] sighed.
“Each of my peers comes from a different era of law. When I lived, a [Slave] was no more wasted than a loaf of bread. This I shall keep. Remember this, Lintl. Faea is a [Slave]. Do not diminish her number, for it diminishes your own. There are uses for such corrupted numbers, but I would beware that choice.”
Lintl staggered upright, eyes blazing.
“If I work for you, Lord—! I am a freeman! I can choose!”
“Yes. If you like, turn around and go back to your ship and crew. If you wish to follow a ghost and seek what I have—power, wealth, influence—then follow. Faea has no choice. Pazeral accused me of not understanding [Slaves]. I do; I simply see a different use for them than he.”
Ah, so he was still Roshal. Faea followed, and after a moment, Lintl did too. He pulled something out of his jaw.
“You knocked my teeth out, Lord. How are you so strong…?”
Cloth teeth were in his palm, needing resewing. Thatalocian snorted.
“This is purely my level. That is not strength of any kind I would value. Ah—so you know, my powers as a numerologist are varied. If you hear me speaking these numbers, run. 8-1-1-4-5. Or if you hear me speaking 19-8-9-24-18-5-3—cover your ears and do not look no matter what. Else you will die. I have other numbers, but those two I use most often.”
“Haade, Lord Thatal—”
He had a hand at her mouth so fast that she ran into it. Then his eyes opened wide.
“Some names have power, Faea. Numbers can contain names I would not utter casually. Not that one.”
Had he…grown bigger just now? He was at his regular size, just over six feet, even hunched, or was that…?
Faea’s eyes went round, and Lintl licked his lips. She didn’t say the other word. Just…thought it.
“Wh-why would those names be powerful, Lord Thatalocian?”
Lintl asked, and the [Numerologist] answered again candidly.
“Power has always been difficult to acquire in any era, Lintl. This is a truth. In the Long Night? I fashioned wards against madness. This is one such.”
He held the lantern at his side up.
“This is what you would deem an artifact, though it has no magic…I do not understand magic, for in the time I lived there was none until the night ended. This is just meaning. Few in this world remember this power outside of Drath. There, the numbers are large. Outside of it? A new number has appeared in Izril. One knows the strength of it in Rhir. Yet neither has my mastery, I think. This is far, far more meaning. A lifetime of it. As my robes.”
He gestured at the flower embroidered into the hem of his robes.
“A flower?”
“Bravery. A reminder of beauty in darkness. Everything has meaning, Faea. I found mine in numbers. Hence my title. Holder of Numbers. One who remembers reason in numbers. Roshal was a bastion of sanity against dark tides. The name you spoke was an ally of mine. A terrible, dangerous ally. When he died, I wrote his numbers into my own. I can take on his power.”
They were almost out of the tunnels, but they lingered a moment; the city beyond was bustling with life. People buying and selling items, a city as beautiful and fair as Faea could imagine. The [Slaves] were barely noticeable as they followed their new masters into the city.
Yet they remained in the tunnels, because the darkness seemed to fit Thatalocian for a moment. His shadow was long, and suddenly, Faea wished that lantern he held were lit. For she felt as if sanity were fraying. Lintl’s eyes were flicking from Thatalocian to the light. He was still in denial, but…
“And the other name, Binderlord?”
Thatalocian’s head turned, and his sunken eyes deepened.
“That was no ally. When I was thirty years old, one crawled from the tides and screamed. No hunter could kill it. Not Noelictus’ brave warriors. Not any force from Roshal. So we barricaded ourselves inside the fortress. Closed every window. It screamed. And screamed. And burst into the tunnels. The hallways ran red with gore, and I was not first to find it. I was merely the one who lived. So I named it as I knelt in its dying brain and let it know what it was. Then I ripped its number out and stole its power.”
“Impossible.”
Thatalocian didn’t turn his head to Lintl, but the lantern emitted a pale, eerie light as he lifted it. It flickered out, and he returned it to his side.
“Did I not name myself? I am Binderlord Thatalocian. Impossible? Be very careful with that word, boy. Impossible is a thin barrier of the mind. When it shatters, the waters rush in quickly. Come; I would see the Blighted Kingdom’s sins.”
 
——
 
To Faea, used to Lailight Scintillation’s mixed wonders by day and debauched horrors by night—at least for [Slaves]—the Blighted Kingdom was a far ‘cleaner’ city, at least, the portside capital was.
It had so few [Slaves]! Now and then she could see someone attending a stall or sweeping the street or cleaning sewers, but this was the most multicultural city she had ever seen outside of Roshal. Every species came here, though notably, Dullahans were still a minority.
Which was odd, because every species had strong representation. If Humans still predominated, it was strange to see equal numbers of Drakes, Gnolls, and Lizardfolk, all without that usual animosity they shared.
Because they were of the Blighted Kingdom. Outsiders were evident not just because of their dress, accents, or unfamiliarity, but by the way they carried their nations with them. They were from an outside world with politics and wants and desires.
Here, there was just the cause and the Demons. Good and evil.
It was alluring to Faea in a way she couldn’t describe. More than once, she saw a poster that wasn’t telling anyone any important information, just a kind of commendation for a citizen of note. A [Baker] who had fed an entire company in need of provisions when they were short, a [Farmer] who had labored for fifty years, commended by a Lord Hayvon…
She began to think that the promise made to the [Slaves] wasn’t false; if they worked here, they could be free and level! Even Lintl seemed to enjoy the atmosphere, acting as a tour guide, though he wasn’t that experienced with the city.
Thatalocian peered at the fine stone and glass, the modern houses abundant with both style and technology, with great interest; he did not discount the luxury or convenience of Paranfer’s citizens. But he was also curious for another reason.
“The devastation dealt to Lailight Scintillation as well as this city by the King of Khelt and the Goblin Lord is not visible here. Even now, the scars of both’s devastation linger on Roshal’s shores. How have they rebuilt so swiftly?”
Both Faea and Lintl blanched as he invoked the twin calamities. Of the two blows, Fetohep’s may have been the most immediately devastating. But as for the Goblin Lord Ragathsi…Lintl glanced around the seemingly-pristine streets.
“I am told that the Blighted Kingdom, eh, expects such attacks. They can rebuild what was damaged quickly, and their streets do not crack easily, Lord.”
“Better-made than Roshal. A lesson to be learned. They still find those…‘landmines’ in the harbors, do they not?”
Faea nodded.
“Th-they sent [Slaves] to find and dispose of them, Lord. Thousands upon thousands.”
Few who were chosen came back. The thought of being selected had terrified everyone in the markets. Thatalocian was disapproving.
“Flesh over gold. A waste of both. So this Blighted Kingdom is readier for war, but too rich.”
Too rich? Could one be that? He explained as the confused duo stared at him.
“When I lived, Roshal was no less ready for war, but it had no surplus. Nothing to spare. It was crude, serviceable. Were this city made truly for battle, there would be no windows, merely stone bunkers, deep caverns and walls. They say the Blighted Kingdom fights an eternal battle. I say it has been winning if this is its capital.”
That was…true. Faea blinked and gazed around; if the Demons were so deadly, then surely no one could have a beautiful stallfront store like the one they were passing by. But then, this was behind 1st Wall. Was it so wrong to have a beautiful capital as proof they were reclaiming Rhir?
It was beyond her, and Lintl too evidently, because he changed subjects as he pointed ahead.
“If we’re lucky, they’ll have a few entertainments; there are always some, Lord. There’s almost no crime to be had in the city, either. I’m told outside of the First Wall, where we are, you can find some, but the entire kingdom is focused on one thing. Only other foreigners spit on our shoes here. The Blighted Kingdom appreciates Roshal rightly.”
“All to fight these Demons.”
It was Thatalocian who didn’t seem to feel the spirit of Rhir. He glanced left and right, then turned.
“Have you ever seen a Demon or known anyone who’s had a conversation with these folk? When I lived, they did not exist. Rhir lay empty.”
By now, the two had gotten used to how he talked, extraordinary as it was, so they told him of how the Demon King had arisen after the Creler Wars and made war on the world; the Blighted Kingdom had repulsed them time and again, but his Deaths and armies assailed the walls, which were now five-strong.
Thatalocian was not impressed.
“A convenient story that says little and tells much. All the more suspicious. I have witnessed the Death of Magic and Death of Chains firsthand. I understand Yazdil’s reasons. But he is a self-serving individual. I seek the truth.”
“Binderlord? How can you say that? The world knows of the Demons, and the Death of Chains assaulted Roshal itself!”
She’d seen that, though she’d been screaming and begging to be released like the howling Djinni until they were punished. But for the sake of argument, and especially here—!
The [Numerologist] exhaled.
“I question this place just as I question the evidence of my eyes when it is dark, Faea. If the Blighted Kingdom cannot withstand a question, then it is flawed. Ah, but perhaps it is also my level. Here.”
So saying, he unhooked the lantern from his belt and began to wave it. Again, that pale glow filled it, and the [Numerologist] made a curious gesture with his other hand. He held it so his palm almost touched his nose and shook the lantern to the rhythm of his words, which he intoned in a bass voice.
“0. 1. 1. 2. 3. 5. 8. 13. 21. 34. 55. 89…”
What was he…? At first, the words felt…small. And then they began to get bigger. Larger and larger, piling on top of themselves with his voice until they drowned out—Faea clapped her hands to her ears, but they were not larger in the sense of mere volume.
They were drowning out something else. She could see it; a bubble surrounding the swaying lantern. As the [Numerologist] chanted, it felt like the city grew less…vivid. Less beautiful. The nobility of the people around her, the cause that had livened Faea’s heart, reduced. Became mundane and small.
“Wh—what are you—stop it. Stop it, Binderlord. Please—!”
Lintl didn’t seem to mind the chanting as much as Faea. He just jumped and gazed around, but the [Slave] recoiled and tried to hold her hands over her ears. He was making the streets dingier, the people less happy. They even seemed less content as the bubble expanded—
“Stop it!”
She didn’t realize she’d kicked him until he stopped chanting. Then Faea flinched, squatted down, and curled up. This time, he was going to—
“Hm. You are braver than you appeared aboard the ship. But if this displeases you, know that I stripped this pleasant reality away because I must see. You are welcome to bathe in this delusion; this can serve sanity. But it is another kind of bubble that pops.”
Thatalocian’s lantern went back to his side. The bubble of whatever he’d been doing ceased, and Faea felt better again. She looked up, flinching, but he merely extended a hand.
“Lord—Lord, what was that?”
Lintl was so stunned he didn’t even advocate to beat her within an inch of her life, which Faea appreciated.
“[Chant of Logic]. A means to strip away illusions or build a grasp on mundanity. You understand, then. Have you ever seen a Demon with your own eyes?”
Thatalocian was addressing Lintl; it was Faea’s turn to back away, waiting for the world to normalize. People were glancing their way, but whatever Thatalocian was doing, it deflected their attention—mostly. Lintl half-bowed.
“I have, Lord.”
“Really?”
“Prisoners. They don’t speak; they’re gagged and spellbound, but citizens jeer and stone them. To the death at times. Would you see…?”
“Yes.”
Faea got up and followed Thatalocian shakily. Peering at the streets and smiling people. He had shown her the truth, maybe. But it was such a painful one…! Couldn’t one thing be good?
Maybe he was wrong. He could make the streets seem less beautiful, but the Demons were out there. Faea didn’t believe this Thatalocian was perfect. Even so, she still followed, for she was a [Slave].
They were just in time, as it turned out. Not only did they get to see some Demons in cages, but they were also present for a state funeral. The group pushed to the front of the crowd, and Thatalocian tapped the shoulder of a [Knight] watching the solemn procession.
“This is fit for a [Prince]. Who has passed?”
The [Knight] removed his helm as several pallbearers marched forwards. Unlike the solemn, precise [Soldiers] and the Blighted Kingdom’s own [Knights], this was a motley group of weeping people no older than Faea herself. The [Knight] nodded to the young folk.
“Some [Heroes] of Rhir. Slain by the Goblin Lord Ragathsi, I am told. On top of those killed by the King of Khelt.”
Thatalocian focused on the [Heroes] of Rhir. Then at the cages of Demons, who provoked a roar of anger after the weeping and mourning cries. His eyes narrowed as a great beast, which had a Wyvern’s head and a second, grotesque Ogre’s face and the tail of a great, shaggy wolf, clawed at the bars.
A mutated monster of Rhir and a dozen silent Demon [Soldiers], who shielded their faces from stones being hurled at them. His eyes narrowed.
“Is that all? Those are no Seamwalkers.”
“Lord, their faces!”
Lintl stared at one Demon with three eyes and eight arms sprouting from her back. She had red skin, and another resembled Drakes and Lizardfolk in that…he…had scales, but he was a creature unlike either group with a wide salamander’s head and stout, circular torso. Some of the Demons appeared more…normal, but they still had purple skin or horns.
“That is merely the effects of mutation. The result of exposure to Seamwalkers. Any fool who has witnessed their corruption would understand that. This is…these are Demons?”
The [Numerologist]’s eyes began to flash. Alarmed, Faea and Lintl began to shush him because this was too much, even for whatever Skill he had. If someone heard—!
Well, the entire problem was sort of rendered moot because at that moment, a portal in the air opened, and Thatalocian turned to see an entire squad of [Soldiers] aiming crossbows at his chest. He grunted, and without missing a beat, hefted the foreigner [Knight] up by the waist and placed him down between himself and the crossbows.
It was a bastard’s move, but you had to admire that.
 
——
 
Head Recruiter Kobl was pulling his best moves on his coworker, Chrine, as they returned to their headquarters in the city, job done for the moment. Ships were always arriving, and it wasn’t their jobs to process the new [Slaves], just do this.
“So, have you bought a new armor polish? I couldn’t help but admire the luster.”
“Kobl, stop. I have to file this.”
She was trying not to smile as she carried her head under one arm, the files with the other. Kobl passed through the archways that detected dangerous items—he could carry his weapons, but just not hidden blades or anything else. Once, he’d brought a shaving razor in his bag of holding and been stopped for ten minutes—he didn’t want to lose Chrine.
“I could help you pick out a new piece tomorrow once we’re paid. Or help you buff it out—”
“Pervert.”
She nudged him hard, turning red, and Kobl faltered. She wasn’t that mad, but she was scandalized. Damn. He wished he had more Dullahan coworkers, but they were rare in the Blighted Kingdom—was that like offering to give her a massage or something?
“I—I only meant—I didn’t mean to be improper. I’d like to buy you a drink—”
They were passing through another section where several figures wearing masks watched them. One spoke as always.
“[Normalize Condition].”
“What if I, um, made you some armor?”
“Made me some armor? And I wear it? All the time? In front of everyone?”
“Okay, not that. How about—”
Then Kobl’s mouth stopped frantically working, and his mind snapped away from being flustered into true horror. The same thing happened to Chrine. Kobl’s mouth kept working for a moment.
“—you—I—he gave me orders! He was right there and gave me orders, and I just took them!”
“Three? Three! Three! I wasn’t doing the math right, and I knew it!”
They began grabbing at their heads, doubling over as, suddenly, the events in the [Slaves]’ holding pens came back to them completely differently. Their sudden screams and flailing made the masked figures jump in alarm; Kobl spun.
“He—he went with the [Slaves]! I have to—”
He began running and nearly slammed into a protective forcefield. Kobl almost drove his fist into it, then his mind began actually working.
“Intruder! Infiltrator at the docks! Three!”
He roared at the masked figures as people around him spun, and they reacted instantly.
“Down onto the ground! Hold still for scanning spells! Report!”
One leapt over the barricade as Kobl knelt, and he blabbered everything he could.
“We didn’t know! We were tricked! Blighted King forgive us, I knew the numbers were wrong, but it was a Skill or—!”
Chrine was crying, but Kobl couldn’t talk to her—one of the masked officials had seized his arm.
“Up. You will help us identify the saboteurs. Do not draw attention to them. Move!”
Kobl ran. They dragged him into a room with nearly a hundred scrying orbs, all flashing difference faces, and they flickered frantically through faces and places as he described where the man must have gone, and they combed the area until—
“There! There!”
He would have recognized that hunched man anywhere. That was him with the [Slave] and [Guard]! Thatalocian!
“Should I inform the Watch, sir?”
The [Mage] operating the [Scrying] spell was tense, but the officer lifted a finger.
“Wait for my signal. I am requesting a [Portal] spell to apprehend…Bastion-General? Yes, sir. Yes—we have him—forwarding now. Forward the scrying coordinates to 4th Wall!”
He snapped, and the [Mage] scrambled to obey. Kobl’s eyes were huge in his head. Bastion-General Quiteil had caught wind of this? So fast! But then, this was infiltration into the Blighted Kingdom—!
He watched as the portal opened after several agonizing minutes. Then he clearly heard the masked officer speaking.
“Intruder to the Blighted Kingdom, surrender or be executed. There will be no second warning.”
The man had picked up a [Knight] and was holding him like a shield! People were dashing back around him, and the parade had ground to a halt, but the man, Lord Thatalocian, didn’t even seem that phased.
“I am Slave Lord Thatalocian of Roshal. Ask Emir Yazdil about me.”
Roshal? Yazdil? The officer hesitated, but then fell back on what he knew.
“No one is above the Blighted Kingdom’s laws. Surrender. Now! Release—put the [Knight] down!”
The foreign [Knight] was squirming, trying not to be a literal Human shield in Thatalocian’s grip. The Slave Lord smiled, amused.
“I have seen no great secrets of your kingdom. Is this how you treat your finest allies? I shall remember that. I will not surrender nor be interrogated like a criminal. I am Thatalocian. Binderlord of Roshal. I warn you once.”
“You will comply or die.”
The officer shouted back. He gave an order to the squad of [Soldiers].
“Do not shoot to kill. Keep the Slave Lord alive. Alive. Bastion-General—”
He was managing several calls at once, and the officer hesitated. His mask gave nothing away, but his voice…
“Bastion-General, he used mind-altering—yes, sir. But—yes, sir. I will—”
Whatever he was going to do next sounded like he had actually been given orders to stand down, which was insane to Kobl. But the horrified [Head Recruiter] realized even the famously incisive Bastion-General Quiteil had made a mistake. Thatalocian was losing his temper.
“You try my patience. 21-14-12…”
The officer snapped back to the scrying orb.
“What is he doing?”
“Sir, permission to loose?”
“Denied, do not strike him! You, what are you—?”
“…15-3-11.”
Thatalocian calmly finished the string of numbers. Kobl stared at him and saw nothing happen. Right up until he heard, in the tense silence, a click. Then a clang as a lock fell off the cage holding the mutated monster of Rhir. And the Demons’ shackles. They stared down at their restraints as they fell to the floor. Thatalocian smiled coldly into the scrying orb.
Right up until the mutated Manticore leapt on him.
 
——
 
In hindsight, Thatalocian should have seen that one coming. The enraged beast in the too-small cage was cooped up with rocks hurled at it and prey all around, already wounded from being captured and desperate to kill.
In its moments of escape, it went for the biggest target it could see, which was him. He was the highest-level person around, and this was no animal that picked its fights wisely. This was a creature of Rhir, and it had survived by killing anything more dangerous than it.
He had also erred in thinking this was some ordinary monster, like a regular Manticore. It had an Ogre and Wyvern’s head and the tail of a giant wolf.
It was fast, and the two heads bit and howled and breathed magical flames all over him as he roared and tried to fight it off him.
“8-1-1—”
Shouting numbers was all very well, except if you were trying to inhale a lungful of green flames. Disbelieving, Faea watched as the Binderlord’s roaring voice became coughing.
That he didn’t die as the mutated Manticore tried to savage him was due to his levels and reflexes and whatever artifacts he had on him, but he was unable to shake the weight of the massive beast. And the [Soldiers] weren’t exactly leaping to help him; they were fighting the Demons.
Unarmed or not, the Demons knew this was their one chance, and they had seized weapons and were fighting, using Skills and yelling to the heavens.
“Chains! Death of Chains! Witness our stand! Let all who hold chains—”
A Demon woman was screaming as she held one arm to the skies, the other seven lashing out with blades. Faea couldn’t look at her. It—it made her too confused.
“Lord!”
Lintl was stabbing at the Manticore’s side with his spear, but it slid off the scales of the beast. Faea was shouting too. If he could just roll away or—
The Ogre’s head bit Thatalocian in a huge chomp as he forced the Wyvern’s head back. One of Thatalocian’s hands kept the molars from crushing his head. His eyes were wide, and he was coughing. Still mouthing those…
Was he going to die? Right here? The man who’d offered her food and a modicum of kindness? Faea cast around, and she saw, just across from her, a group of the young people who’d been bearing their comrade’s corpse. It had fallen over, though the casket mercifully hadn’t broken; they were using it as cover.
“Ohmigod. Ohmigod. Ohmig—”
“Holy shit, this is it. This is it. C’mon, battle formations. Leni, get up! Get up!”
They were panicking as well. They had on what looked like magical armor, but they were no warriors; one was fumbling for a sword, and he only managed to unsheathe it after three tries. Then he whipped it out of its sheath so hard it slipped out of his hands and clattered onto the street.
“Oh fuck.”
“Hahahaha! You dumbass!”
Another one of the strange Humans pointed and laughed at the sword; he had a glassy expression on his face. Shock. He seemed to be in denial of what was going on.
“Get up! C’mon, we’re dead! Remember what Richard said—”
They didn’t move. Couldn’t move, it seemed. One of them put their hands over their ears.
“I want to go home! I want to go—”
“Heroes, help us!”
A [Soldier] was howling at them. The group stared at the fighting and didn’t move, but one of the Demons had heard and was coming at them.
“Heroes of Rhir? Die! Die! D—”
Glowing chains materialized around the neck of the eight-armed Demoness, yanking her off her feet. At this, the [Heroes] did move, running back, lifting weapons, screaming. One gazed at the huge Manticore in horror. Then at the enchanted sword—
And the young [Slave] girl who’d grabbed it and was leaping up onto the Manticore’s back?
“My sword!”
Faea had the blade in her hand. It was light as a feather and practically hummed as she lifted it high. She had climbed the scales of the Manticore’s back as it threatened to throw her off, digging her fingers between the cracks, breaking fingernails, adrenaline giving her strength. She was at the heads and balanced on its back as it savaged Thatalocian, ignoring her.
She stabbed the blade of the sword down where the two heads met, guessing that it had most of its organs there. The shock of blade meeting flesh was all she felt; she drove the blade down to its hilt and gasped.
So easy—
The Manticore screamed and tried to roll. The heads turned towards her, and it attempted to throw her off as she yanked the blade up. A gout of brown blood struck her, but she stabbed again, nearly hitting her knees. Again! She dragged the blade through the flesh, and now the Manticore knew it was in mortal peril. It tried to roll, to crush her…and could not.
Thatalocian had hold of its paws, and he refused to let it turn. His eyes were glowing, and now the beast was screeching. A third time Faea drove the blade down deep, forcing it into the flesh. Again! Again!
She saw a bloody, burnt face staring up at her as the Manticore reared back. Thatalocian only had one eye open, but he gazed up at her not with shock, but a kind of delight and resignation on his face. That of a man whose expectations had been filled and who had not taken that for granted.
Faea lifted the blade, yelling, and as she brought it down, she remembered what she had seen in his eyes when they had first met.
Six.
Her sixth sword strike cut clean down the gap between both heads, slicing into the Manticore’s chest until it met a heart. The beast shrieked—then choked on its own blood—and fell backwards. It would have crushed her had the [Knight] not thrown himself forwards to catch her as she fell.
Numbers. The Slave Lord stood in the silence as the last of the Demons fell, screaming, as her comrades were cut down. Thatalocian gazed down at Faea as she lay there, panting, covered in poisonous blood.
“So your number has come to pass, Faea. Now, we count the value of it. And it seems I was wrong twice. His number has come again. 20-8-9-14.”
He nodded left, and she didn’t understand until she turned and saw someone holding the only Demon who had been re-chained. A grinning hero of the hour—aside from the real [Heroes] that was.
Captain Thin.
 
——
 
In the aftermath, there was cleanup, explanations to be made, interrogations, at least of Roshal’s people and Thatalocian, and recriminations to be had.
Not for him, of course. He refused to be lectured by the officers and [Soldiers], and they had orders not to try and arrest him…twice.
Most seemed willing to try given the chaos he had unleashed, and Thatalocian himself owned that he had erred with the Manticore. There was a time when he could have shouted any number while drowning in the sea.
Death has softened me. His ten lost levels were quite a dear price. Still, he was enough of himself to focus on what mattered.
Which was Faea. Of all the things being done, there were no swords being returned. Even enchanted ones.
Young Lintl was still shaken from the fighting, but he joined Thatalocian as the Blighted Kingdom celebrated the true heroine out of the unexpected deaths and ‘mysterious’ freeing of the Demons. Already, their propagandists were claiming it was the work of the Death of Chains.
However—two of Roshal were heroes. Captain Thin, who had used his Skills to re-bind the Demoness who’d been captured alive, and even more than him, Faea, a daring [Slave] who’d killed a Manticore by herself!
They were removing her collar as Thatalocian pushed one of Rhir’s officers aside to watch. He exhaled.
“Thirteen.”
The numbers didn’t lie. The dazed girl being treated for the venomous blood kept trying to offer the sword to the [Hero] she’d taken it from, but the young man didn’t want it.
“Keep it! I hate swords anyways. I’m getting wands instead. Like hell I’m fighting that.”
He kicked the Manticore’s paws, and one of the young [Heroes] clapped her hands over her mouth.
“Wait, she’s a [Slave]? That’s—! That feels incredibly not-right, am I wrong?”
“Fantasy world, Leni.”
“But—she’s not going to be now, is she? She saved everyone! Can we, like, hire her as a bodyguard? She was super badass!”
“H-hire me?”
Faea was dazed and searching for Thatalocian, but that comment made her head snap around. The female Earther who’d spoken came forwards.
“Oh my god, she’s starving! She looks like she’s an abuse victim. This is so fucked up. We have to keep her and treat her well! Can we keep her?”
She was pleading with the other Earthers, who were also appealing to their handlers. And why not? A talented servant who was brave enough to fight would be a good asset for them.
Ah, that is your number. If, of course, you will it. Thatalocian watched Faea’s face and doubted she would refuse. He had less to offer her. Nor had he missed how she had seen the Blighted Kingdom.
Even so, he found it funny how it was done.
“‘Keep her’. How they learn the language quickly. Do you trade your chains for invisible ones like that which they wear, Faea? This kingdom is kin-sister to Roshal after all.”
He waited for the girl to make her choice, and it did not surprise him when she gazed at him, then bowed. He merely inclined his head and wished her number had meaning. Then he turned.
Ah, a fastidious man who reeked of numbers himself, though orderly ones. Bastion-General Quiteil, Thatalocian presumed, teleported in to deal with him. The Slave Lord nodded.
“Lintl. I shall find you after I am done meeting with this man. Make your choice before the ships set sail to home.”
A pleasant conversation awaited.
 
——
 
Bastion-General Quiteil had stared down foreign [Generals], outraged [Knights], and Named-rank adventurers over his desk. The leader of 4th Wall, which was so often under attack by Demons and one of the first lines of defense for the Blighted Kingdom should the new 5th Wall fall, was one of the most respected officers in the entire Blighted Kingdom.
He had seldom felt more uncomfortable than this. It was not just the knowledge that this man was too important to censure, to simply arrest or punish—it wasn’t just the stench of Roshal that clung to him, like his title—Slave Lord—it was their classes.
Quiteil was a [Peerless Logistics General], but his original class had been [Scribe]. He was a being of order. He could simultaneously coordinate an entire wall’s defenses while managing long-range spells in the capital. His mind was organized. And so was Thatalocian’s, in a way.
But the [Numerologist]’s trains of logic and reason were like…parallel tracks to Quiteil’s own. No, parallel tracks would be easier; that would merely be a different orientation. Thatalocian was like a three-dimensional ball of squiggling lines of reason and belief. A different era. A different modality of thought.
They were…equals. And Quiteil feared that the Slave Lord had an abundance of years on him—and a greater perspective. Who was he? Well, to establish that was one of Quiteil’s objectives from the crown. But the conversation…
“You realize your actions have jeopardized the relationship between the Blighted Kingdom and Roshal, Slave Lord?”
“They have not.”
“Fifty-nine people are dead, slain by the Demons you unleashed.”
Thatalocian spoke.
“59, 7, 8. Very well, I shall pay the blood price of three. This is a meaningless conversation between one such as you and I.”
The [General]’s fingers drummed on the armrest of the chair as they sat in an office in the palace reserved for him until he stopped the motion. He couldn’t help it.
“Kindly qualify that reasoning, Slave Lord. I do not follow.”
“59. The number of the dead. Seven children who were called [Heroes], paralyzed to act. Eight so-called Demons.”
The Bastion-General’s face didn’t betray his reaction to Thatalocian mentioning the [Heroes] or the ‘so-called’ line about Demons. Thatalocian went on.
“7 and 8. 56. That leaves three once removed from the count of the dead. 3. That is the true cost of the Blighted Kingdom’s outrage it would not stomach already. So it shall be paid. But even if it were a hundred times that, our relationship would not change.”
Quiteil considered his responses to this amazing leap of logic. He inhaled.
“You will be banned from the Blighted Kingdom and be under strict guard if we are not assured of your conduct. Roshal is—”
“I am Roshal. I know full well the worth of my home. Weigh your words carefully, for it is not Yazdil who speaks alone in Roshal’s name. All that Lailight Scintillation sends you hangs upon my displeasure.”
Escalation. Quiteil heard the buzz of voices in his ears, [Diplomats] and [Strategists] talking at him. Perhaps this had even reached the Burnished Courts; Roshal was not an ally the Blighted Kingdom could afford to lose, even if this was just one of their new rulership. They contributed vastly more than even any one Walled City, any three might.
Quiteil went on a cautious offensive, steepling his fingers.
“Slave Lord Thatalocian. Your bluff does you little credit. Roshal’s interests and that of the Blighted Kingdom align on many fronts. Alienation weakens both nations in a moment of extreme danger. The Deaths of Magic and Chains continue to strike your caravans. Will the other Slave Lords back your words if queried?”
He left gaps in his line of attack, a deliberate flaw by which he invited Thatalocian to expose his hand. And the [Numerologist] did, but again, he attacked in ways that Quiteil did not foresee at all. The [Numerologist] leaned forwards in his chair.
“You attempted to kill Erin Solstice. Know well that I regard her as a potential ally. The Blighted Kingdom also failed to act when Fetohep of Khelt issued his warnings.”
“We ratified the dangers—”
“You spoke when you claim to shield this world. Where the Empire of Drath, the House of Minos, and so many stood to arms and sent forth navies, you spoke and huddled behind your walls as cowards do. You treat the rest of the world as an armory for your war and give nothing back. Why should Roshal bleed its treasuries for you?”
Incomprehensible.
“Are you stating that you object to Roshal’s own bounties on Erin Solstice? That you are declaring her your possession?”
“You play games with words, Bastion-General. I dislike your word-game Skills which have little use aside from confounding other people, who should be your common ally by the fact they are people alone. I have said what I said. If she takes up arms against Roshal, she shall take up arms. A decision was made—a foolish one in hindsight. Just as you sent your [Heroes] against her.”
A mistake. Quiteil had told Nereshal to refuse His Majesty. He did not move his face, well aware this was all recorded and observed. He did not need his opponent to gain information anyways.
“She has publicly stated she will kill any members of Roshal she comes across. The Forgotten Wing Company has taken a hostile approach to your people, though open conflict has not yet begun.”
“Must an ally stand next to me, cheek-by-jowl, and hold the leaf of peace between us?”
“You would allow her to kill your people?”
Thatalocian cast his eyes dismissively past Quiteil’s face as if this conversation bored him.
“We are allies. See how little blood we shed? Or how many true tears are wept over it? I warn you once more. My foe are Seamwalkers. It is the body of A’ctelios Salash which must not wake. It is a common threat, and if one lies buried in Rhir, it will die. Focus on that and you will have my support. Roshal’s aid shall vanish until it is earned. Of my peers, only two support this petty war. And if you cannot see the true war that is coming…even less reason to fight side-by-side with a blind ally.”
Quiteil twitched as the nattering in his earpiece grew louder. That was a very clear statement about what was going to happen to Roshal’s aid in the short-term. He was going to advocate against immediate attempts to unseat or remove Thatalocian, however.
This man is dangerous. Quiteil played chess; he’d rather been disappointed he never got a chance to play more than one game against Erin Solstice before she was declared an enemy of the Blighted Kingdom. He still thought there was a possibility…well, if he was akin to a rook, bishop, or more flatteringly a queen piece, it was because he moved in logical patterns.
Most pieces did, though pawns had surprising rules. Thatalocian reminded Quiteil of a knight. Unpredictable, especially if you lost focus. There, of course, the analogy ended because you could always tell what a knight did…this was far, far more complex than a chess board.
“It seems we are at an impasse, Slave Lord. Will you lay out your reasoning in a civil manner?”
Thatalocian was already rising.
“I have seen what I needed to. This is not the place nor time I look for. Unless…wait. Quiteil. 17.”
He turned, suddenly, and he peered at Quiteil. Then did something that disconcerted the [Bastion General] more than this entire conversation.
“Bastion-General. Is your first name…short? I would presume three to four letters. I wonder…if it starts with ‘a’. Or a letter such as that.”
The voices piped louder, then went silent because no one, not even the wild-magic experts, had any idea what this Slave Lord was talking about. Quiteil brushed at the white patch of skin on his hand, a symbol of the blight he had fought against his entire life.
“…Araz. That is my first name. A remarkable guess.”
Thatalocian’s eyes gleamed. And then he smiled, and his entire demeanor changed.
“No. It is not. 46. Mark your number well, Bastion-General. It is not I who has business with you. So my number guides me on. But 17…it is but the first letter of your name. I pursue it once more. Seventeen…”
He turned and strode from the room. Quiteil half-rose from his seat, then let the [Diplomats] and other experts try their luck on Thatalocian. He just sat, answering in the negatory.
“No. No…I have no idea what that number portends. I do not feel affected by a Skill, though I, of course, request a full evaluation. I will continue to monitor the situation by your leave, Your Majesty?”
He didn’t understand what that number meant for a long, long time thereafter. It would, in fact, haunt Quiteil’s sleep for five nights running after Thatalocian had left—he would keep working on it when the [Cipher Specialists] and [Counterintelligence Agents] had long since given up on figuring out the [Numerologist]’s logic.
Only when, on a hunch, Quiteil had added up a few numbers and seen the number again did he feel a chill on his skin.
But he told no one of that. He just…remembered.
 
——
 
What did the number mean? Not even Thatalocian knew, but he still saw patterns.
Lintl found him as he strode from the palace, and the [Guard] was resolved to follow where Faea had not. He was not the material of old, the brave sons and daughters of Roshal who had stood the Long Night.
But he might be. So Thatalocian accepted the first of his followers into his company. There would be more, and many might not be what he needed, but he still needed those who could perform tasks suited to them.
Such as…
“I am looking for 17, Lintl. I shall not leave until I have found it. This is our final mission.”
“Was Faea not what you wanted, Lord…?”
“Her number told me we were likely to part, with death no less, the moment she told me her name, Lintl. Reading into names is risky, even for me. But that was as clear as could be. Help me find my number.”
“Where do we start then, Lord?”
“Anywhere that has meaning to you.”
The young [Guard] was at a loss, so he took Thatalocian down the main streets towards the biggest plaza and squares as if they were on holiday. The Slave Lord spoke a few more things to Lintl, though he was aware now he was watched.
“In time, you will see the limits of my power. Numbers cannot win wars. They can provide small miracles, but my true ability is as a crafter and a leader. I have an eye for comrades.”
“The Naga, beg pardon, Emir Yazdil is said to have an eye for talent as well, Lord. Of the two of you, who is better?”
Thatalocian smiled coldly.
“I have heard Emir Yazdil’s reputation. The way he has described himself to me—he has an eye for buried talent. He nurtures it, lets it grow, shapes it. As one might raise a small mouse into a beast as large as a Grand Elephant. He is…a trainer. As well as a hoarder, one who covets. I do not need to hold what I find. I look for an edge in broken stone. A blade to wield in desperate times. If it breaks after a single blow or becomes a weapon of unsurpassing strength, I cannot say. Only that the potential is there.”
He was searching for it now. He had seen it in Faea, in small parts, and perhaps in Lintl as well; for a [Guard] raised in Roshal, he had shed his preconceptions faster than most might. However…
They were passing through the streets that Thatalocian had damaged when they heard the screaming—and cheering. Thatalocian pointed; they went.
It was not a difficult thing to imagine what they found. What would happen after the Demons broke their cells and the celebrating of good Captain Thin and Faea was done?
Vengeance. Of course.
The last Demon to survive their battle would not live long. That she had been re-collared by Roshal’s Skill only meant that they could now make her death slower.
They’d offered Captain Thin the honor, but for all he transported [Slaves] and disciplined them, he didn’t have the stomach for this. He watched with a kind of queasy fascination as hooded figures presented daggers to an [Executioner].
Those hoods held people who would be regarded as Demons in their own right. Thatalocian knew the flesh of A’ctelios Salash went here. He stared at the figures as they melted backwards, observing, then heard the scream again. Lintl went pale—the scream went on and on, and the agony in it had even him sweating, and he was used to the cargo ships. But not the true face of Lailight Scintillation.
“What are they doing, Lord? Isn’t she a [Slave]?”
“Yes. She is. In this time, it means anything can be done with her. Including this.”
It was a ritual execution, designed for no other reason than to let Rhir’s citizens watch the Demoness die in as much pain as possible. The [Executioner] had a dagger, and he was blinding her, eye by eye. Two were gouged out, and before he took the final one in the center of her head, he had gone to work on her arms.
She had eight; it would be a slow death, and the crowd cheered her every scream and hurled abuse at her.
Thatalocian had seen the horrors of Those-That-Rise many times, but this torture was just a waste. She was no traitor, just an enemy combatant. A Seamwalker…if they even felt pain, he would not mind the torture of those if it held some purpose.
This? Lintl wanted to look away, so the Slave Lord took his head and fixed it on the suffering Demoness.
“Look. There is far worse in Lailight Scintillation, Lintl. I have walked into the Wishing Well.”
“B-but there’s no point, Lord! There’s no point! Don’t make me look!”
Ah, he was young. They must not have jaded all his heart with his work yet. And perhaps there was the edge that Thatalocian saw that would break him or create what the [Numerologist] observed.
“Then change it. But do not dare gaze away from the truth.”
They watched as the knife sawed through flesh and bone. The Demoness might have been a warrior, but no one could endure that pain, that loss, without a true wail of agony. Thatalocian saw the arm drop, and the [Executioner] raised the bloody blade overhead. And the [Numerologist] thought…
This calls to me. This waste. This Demoness. But I do not see—
Seventeen.
SEVENTEEN.
The number plagued his mind, but he was the master of his class. He could ignore it, but he also respected the numbers, the pattern in the world. 17.
17! Where—
Then he saw it. As he ever had in the perfect moments when he screamed his number at the skies and brought a small oasis of order to The Long Night. It was so obvious. It always was.
One of the Demoness’ eyes was still open, the crimson pupil rolled up to the sky in agony. And as the [Executioner] reached down for the next of her restrained arms, bound with rope…
Seven.
17. 1-7. One and seven.
“There.”
The number split in Thatalocian’s mind, then came together in a perfect piece. He was moving before his observers, before Lintl, knew what was happening. The [Numerologist] ran towards the crowd, towards the [Executioner], who halted, as if sensing the sudden danger.
The cloaked figures stirred, recognizing Thatalocian in some way, but it did not matter. He was already speaking the words.
“8-1-1-4-5. 8-1-1-4-5. Haade. HAADE THE OGRE.”
The Demoness was staring at the sky. Trying to see the shadow of her wings or even the hint of a rainbow. One sign it all mattered—she saw no comet of light. No hope from above.
But when she gazed down, she saw the bloated flesh bulging, the robes tearing along a back which expanded. And a hand puffed with skin and lifting one of her captors aside. The eyes that flashed at her with a sanity so deep it had become a madness of its own.
The Holder of Numbers.
 
——
 
They were a day of sailing to Roshal when the chase finally ended. Not that the Blighted Kingdom had rained down all the death it could on the ship carrying Thatalocian, Lintl, and the newest [Slave] of Roshal.
They hadn’t quite dared. But they had tried to board three times and shoot the sails out. Yet the Slave Lord had called upon his allies.
He had received Shaullile’s aid in negotiating the ceasefire; Andra had provided defensive spells and Yazdil a ship that had emerged to replace the one he had been forced to flee with Captain Thin and his crew.
Thatalocian had tired of the chase and sent Lord Pazeral at the last ship to board him. Which had complicated the negotiations…or expedited them.
He lowered the speaking stone as Shaullile drew breath and stopped screaming at him. What the Slave Lord said was this:
“I have my answers from a mouth that will not lie. She is no bosom companion of mine, but a [Slave]. I know other Demons have been sold to Roshal.”
“Quietly. They have to deal with all the citizens who saw you, and you’ve offended them time and again—”
“In your time, Roshal was the polite negotiator, Shaullile. Not so in Pazeral’s or mine. Even Andra doubts the value we receive from Rhir is worth our investment. I shall have my truth.”
“A truth. A Demon’s truth.”
“I have had the Blighted Kingdom’s truth. Should we not have both?”
An exasperated sound.
“Do you even know how to train [Slaves] in your era of eating moss and fighting off Seamwalkers for breakfast?”
“Yes.”
She said something else, but he flicked the stone into the waters, heedless of the cost of it. Then he turned.
The Demoness’ two eyes on the sides of her head were glued shut with blood. The stump of one of her arms was bandaged, but clumsily; she had red skin and horns, but aside from that, he found her close to Humans.
She was staring at him now that she was convinced the Blighted Kingdom wasn’t going to snipe her from afar. When she spoke, it was to spit on him. Lintl raised a hand to strike her and desisted at Thatalocian’s gaze.
“You might as well drown me. I will never submit to Roshal’s chains. I’ll kill you, I swear it, Slave Lord. Let all those who hold chains beware! The Death of Chains will come for you all!”
Her defiant cry provoked shudders from the crew. They were ready to lash her, especially as she was of a handful of [Slaves] coming back from the Blighted Kingdom. Only the dregs of criminals or, yes, Demons captured went back to Roshal.
Another reason it was unequal. Thatalocian wiped spit from his cheek. She spat again. He wiped more spit away.
She had run out of spit after about fifteen times and coughed as he handed the handkerchief back to Lintl. Only then did the [Numerologist] speak.
“Since you will not tell me your name yet, I will tell you what I expect. We serve Roshal, this world, and sanity. Not always in that order, and the means of which change. I by willingness and choice. You because you have none until I wish to remove your collar. It is possible that day will come. It is possible it will not. But you will serve.”
The Demon drew herself up warily, proudly, and yes, with fear.
“I…have survived the Blighted Kingdom’s [Interrogators]. You can do little worse. Go on. My mind will break well before my will.”
She bared her teeth. It was no bravado, just a fact. Thatalocian liked her.
“For the first [Slave] I have taken since being reborn, you are the right one. I offered the Truestone Golem first, but she does not know me. Chains befit some.”
She stared at him along with everyone else with that uncomprehending expression of people who did not understand how he thought. Thatalocian continued.
“You will serve. At first, you will speak and tell me your name. That is always the first step. Others of my peers make a game of this; how fast one can break another to their will or twist until fear and terror become loyalty. Pazeral, Yazdil…or they simply command it other ways like Andra with spell and alchemy. I am no Shaullile to win your trust either. We shall see how our relationship develops.”
“And why…would I deign to do that unless you threaten me with pain or worse?”
Even she was curious. Thatalocian replied calmly.
“Because what you desire is what I desire. I am a Slave Lord of Roshal. Speak to me of Demons. Tell me of the truth the Blighted Kingdom hides in its every action. Convince me…it would be preferable to support Demons over the Blighted Kingdom or neither at all. And I will listen.”
Her one remaining eye went round with shock. There was a cry from Captain Thin at this baldfaced treachery, but Thatalocian merely sat on the railings.
“This is a trick.”
That was what the female Demon managed after a moment. He raised his brows.
“Why would I lie when the truth will reveal itself so easily in time?”
“We—I—are you insane? Stupid?”
“I am not the most clever of men.”
She laughed at him.
“You must be insane! You—you’re Roshal. You chain everyone! You—the Death of Chains has sworn to destroy you! She freed herself from your damn harbor! How could there be peace with her?”
A sensible question. Thatalocian nodded to himself.
“I had considered this very question. Does she speak for all Demons? All Djinni? Before you answer—you are enraged. Let me ask another question. Given that I see a greater foe lurking than even you Demons…what is the price of peace for Czautha, the Death of Magic? For a year? Ten? A hundred Djinni’s chains broken? A thousand?”
He was insane. Captain Thin was searching for the ship’s [Mage] to send a [Message] to Roshal to tell someone, anyone, to stop this madman. But Thatalocian was smiling.
“You’re serious, aren’t you?”
“I have Those-Who-Rise to kill. More of them than I ever dreamed. I fled them, in shame, to prepare this world for their coming. And the one that led them here…I have never desired anything dead more. Do you think a Demon’s hand is the worst I have taken? I am Roshal.”
Now he was spitting madness. Dribbling from him, though his face was clean. He was smiling, and the Demoness backed up.
“You can get the truth from me, and the Blighted Kingdom will kill you for knowing it, but you’ll never have my loyalty, much less my aid.”
“How fast the line is redrawn. I will have your aid.”
She laughed in his face then, a despairing laugh as if her eyes were not still burning with the agony of being lost. She gestured at her arm.
“You may have freed me once, but so what? My friends are dead. My comrades. Everyone…and the man who stopped me from taking a life of one of those damned [Heroes] is right there. Show me, oh great Slave Lord. Win me over.”
So, the [Numerologist] smiled, and she shuddered and regretted her demand. For he nodded once.
“Your desires coincide with mine, Demon whose name I do not know. I have walked Roshal and seen every inch of my home. Seen its excess, waste, and the disregard it has for its people, both masters and [Slaves]. One did not whip a [Slave] for no reason in my time. In my time, food was no luxury to be used as a tool to humble. You ask for something from me. I oblige you, for that is our relationship. 20-8-9-14.”
No one understood. She did not, but then Lintl, who knew Thatalocian’s ways, paled. And another man started. Someone who had heard that series of numbers before.
His number.
He backed up as Thatalocian slowly turned.
“Lord. What are you—I am a free man. I meant no disresp…you cannot. Crew, to me. To me! Get back! Get—”
 
——
 
Thatalocian finished tying the knot of the ship’s ropes as the crew watched. And now they feared him. Feared him in a way even Lord Pazeral did not scare them. Because Pazeral was simply first among them. Old, but of their ilk.
Thatalocian was something else. A different kind of Roshal. No less terrible. But he stood with the Demoness, who stared at the man screaming, or trying to scream for help.
It was hard to scream upside down. Captain Thin was writhing, but he couldn’t sit up to grab the ropes tied around his ankles, and not for lack of fitness or desperation; the wake of the ship they were on was so strong he was blowing almost forty degrees behind the ship. Fighting against the gravity meant he couldn’t do more than a half-situp.
His eyes were huge and wide, and Thatalocian held the bundle of rope in his hands. Thin’s head was striking the spray from the waves below. If he let go…
“And now, Captain Thin, I count. A truer number than the days we spent in each other’s company or the minutes you take to answer. A [Numerologist] must have his number. How many times will your head break the surf? Upon that number, I shall base my next action. Would you like to begin, my [Slave] who has no name I can count?”
He proffered the ropes to the Demoness, and she stared at him.
“You truly are mad. What—what are you?”
“A ghost.”
He spoke only the truth. After a moment, she took the ropes. Gazed down into the eyes of Captain Thin and heard that wail, thin and desperate. The chained woman let go.
Thatalocian saw the flailing body vanish into the waves and line go taught and snap against the railings. Lintl watched, eyes wide. Both abhorrent and drawn to this man who intended to change Roshal in his image, like all the others.
They told stories of him, of course. Like the Emir Yazdil, like all the others. The crew that had sailed with Captain Thin departed into Lailight Scintillation’s harbor and told the story, to the horror of masters, to the awe or delight of [Slaves]. They said the [Numerologist] stood straight, then. That his eyes never left the bobbing figure, and that they would never forget his voice.
He counted.
“One…two….three…..four……five…….six……..”
Waiting for his number to guide him home.

Beware of Chicken x The Wandering Inn Crossover Comic! (2025-12-03)

Tales of Innworld #7 (2025-12-07)

10.52 N (2025-12-13)

They called it Oelnnox. The place where the Titan of Baleros was keeping the children.
Of course, that was a lie. He hadn’t taken the children from their families in the night.
That was Jungle Tails. They had not broken the doors down and dragged the children screaming into the streets…at the start. Rather, Lizardfolk had lined up before the Nagas to send their children to a place, they were told, that would give them levels, training. Help them evolve. Defeat the Forgotten Wing Company that was attacking Jungle Tails. Restore the Eyes of Baleros to the temples, and finally, finally, bring back the Nagatine Empire.
Only when those children had never returned, and more had been demanded, year after year, had the kidnappings begun. Families had begged, petitioned, tried to recover their children or just learn what had become of them.
They vanished too, and that was the legacy of the facility. The Titan hadn’t been responsible for any of the sins now thrown at his feet.
Niers Astoragon was merely the one who had found Oelnnox. Marched his armies past the city of Ebbyxi and breached the stone keep buried in the hill. Then ordered his forces to surround the hill. Had every Naga in Ebbyxi marched out at spearpoint and demanded answers. Then—cordoned off the entire area. He did not let the children out, though hopeful parents who’d been begging to see them for years had come crowding around the doors.
He’d called for [Healers]. He’d called for [Mages]. He had called for Foliana, Three-Color Stalker. Then he had a huge ring of defenses constructed around the facility.
Oelnnox was never opened.
But it was a lie, also, to imply that no children had ever left Oelnnox. They had. Jungle Tails had taken a number of them out in the months before the Titan’s forces swept the region. And, in the decade since the Titan had taken that spot…certainly some children had emerged. A few times, each one notable, remembered.
Oh, and the last lie was this: they called it Oelnnox. But Jungle Tails had not named it when the children had been brought there. The facility had been named long before that. It was not the first time the facility had been used for purposes that required a lack of light and prying eyes. Maybe it made it easier, working in a place that was already stained.
That was where they went. The Sariant Lamb who wore a Human’s form. The [Doctor]. The Wind Runner. The Earthers, the Selphid clone, the faeries, and mercenaries. It was so they could see, out of curiosity. Because at least one of them thought they needed an army.
The Titan allowed it, because it served his ends. But it would be wrong to say that he had no idea what to do with the children there or what he was sending the Earthers into. It was just…
Difficult.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon debated telling ‘Erin’ what she was going to find until the day of their departure. In the end, he gave her a letter for her to read, provisioned her few hundred [Mercenaries] and the United Nations company, ensured they had clear roads and measures against trouble—at least from [Assassins] or [Bandits]—and left it at that.
Part of it was spite. If ‘Erin’ wanted to prove herself, claim the power of that place, she could damn well earn it. Telling her his perspective would cloud her judgement, anyways.
The other, more reasoned part he hoped was informing the decision was, well, guilt. It was hard. In the end, he decided he had to tell someone, and so he compromised. He summoned two individuals to his study whom he felt would benefit from the information.
“Wil. Yerranola. Come in. Have a seat anywhere. Are you ready to travel? Yerra, how’s your mobility?”
The Titan was drinking as he sat on his table, staring at a few candles he’d lit and old journal entries. Instantly, both his students were fascinated.
They had never seen, nor known of, the Titan’s personal bookshelf of journals. Each one was hand-written. Unique. Never-copied, stained with dirt and blood and even moss from his travels. A fortune beyond fortunes. He glanced up as Yerra stumbled a bit, and Wil hurried to clear a chair of documents for her to sit. She sat, jerkily, and her cheeks turned orange under her pale, Human body.
“I’m good to travel, Professor! Just a bit—stutter-y. I don’t need to run around to lead the mercenaries. Plus, most’re Selphids. They’ll listen to me.”
He regarded her with one eye and nodded.
“As I understand it, you’ve lost too much body mass due to the poison, and operating regular forms is difficult, damage aside, yes?”
She hesitated. The Gnolls had helped complete her treatments, but she had continued to ‘shed’ damaged parts of her body. Complications in the healing after she and Wil and everyone else had hoped she was done. She nodded glumly, and Niers went on, voice brisk. Not unkind, but direct.
“You may heal, but right now, you’re no longer the [Strategist] who could run with Marian and Venaz. Remember that, Yerranola. You need to compete with your mind, like General Gloriam had to learn. Forget and Wil will have to make up for your lacks. And this time, it won’t end with your personal wounds. Mess up and your people will die. More than already have, that is.”
His voice was not as kind as normal, and Wil protested as he found another chair and pushed it to the table.
“Professor! Yerra’s been working hard to—”
She silenced him with a glare. Wil hesitated as he sat. Niers just folded the leather journal in his hands and put it on the table.
“If I sound short, Wil, I am. I’m sending you on your first command. You’ve had your first adventure. Tell me again, with the benefit of hindsight. How does it feel to know you’re going into the field?”
They’d done this before, albeit when the world was better. Before Jungle Tails—before Erin Solstice. Niers saw Wil hesitate and glance at Yerra, the casualty of his last adventure, though it had been mercifully kind in terms of deaths. Well, kind to him and his friends. Captain Lasc and the crew of the Emerald Signet had been reduced to a fifth strength. The oceans had run with sailor blood. But it had really been a kind adventure.
This was going to be harder, and Wil seemed to realize that.
“I…if you put it like that, sir, I am worried. About my ability to take command of forces who might not respect me. Of the danger of ambush, especially given Miss Solstice’s reputation. Of Jungle Tails, whom I do expect to encounter. These…pirates…who attacked the Singer of Terandria, and…our destination. It’s not on any maps, sir. At least, none in the markets. It is in the Forgotten Wing company’s libraries, but I understand all the reports about it are classified. I asked the [Librarian].”
Good lad. Yerra shifted as Wil spoke, and Niers nodded to himself. Wil was a peerless logistician. Yerranola had common sense and experience he lacked. Together, Niers hoped they’d be the assets that Erin, Ryoka, Geneva, Beth, and the United Nations company needed. But they were all so young.
“You’re right to worry, Wil. Not about your ability to command. You will learn, win or fail. So long as you don’t run away or break, you’ll improve. But I wish I could flip you with one of the [Strategists] moving towards the Dyed Lands with me. Venaz, Marian, Umina, any of them will have an easier time with their respective duties than you two will.”
That didn’t make his students happier. Now they were glancing at each other, and Niers rang a bell on his table. Seneschal Atmodeca, the Crocodile Beastkin, came in with wine and poured them a cup. Both refused; they wanted to be sober for the next day.
He was proud of them.
He didn’t want them to die. But he wanted them to level. If they didn’t level now, they’d die later. If that made sense? So he’d rather risk their lives now than know they were going to die if he coddled them.
Bastard’s logic. It was why he was drinking.
Oelnnox brought it out in him.
Cups of wine were replaced by water. They drank as Yerranola surreptitiously took the cure that staved the pain off. Her hand shook a bit, and Wil caught her arm and helped put the cup on the table. Then he licked his lips.
“Sir, if you’ll forgive me stating the obvious—you’re headed to the Dyed Lands, where monsters are coming out in literal waves. They’ve taken nearly a hundred miles of territory around the Dyed Lands. People regard it as a cataclysmic event; the only thing they’re arguing over is what level. And Jungle Tails is also fighting the Dyed Lands, so the odds of our classmates seeing both formal war against Jungle Tails and all-out battle against monsters is all but certain. And Oelnnox is worse?”
“Yes.”
It was Yerranola’s turn to take over. Her orange irises were like a flower blooming, wide at the top, narrowing downwards in a stem of color, one of the ways you could sometimes tell Selphids apart.
“Pardon me, Professor. I know you like teasing us, but you seem a bit—off. Even for you. This isn’t you having fun, is it?”
He smiled at her, willing to cut to the chase.
“No, Yerra, it is not. Oelnnox is a hard place to talk about. I have not told Erin about it. Not fully. Let me be more straightforwards. To be honest…I don’t think about it often. Entire months or even a year goes by and I don’t do more than glance at a report. Put it out of my mind. It’s been…a decade since I found it? Well, I was aware of it when the Forgotten Wing company first came to power as a Great Company. It was on my list of things to do, but I was fighting for every holding Jungle Tails had. It was just one item on a long list that included murdering their entire High Command, stealing the Eye of Baleros with the Lightning Thief, allying with the Gazers—you know.”
They were listening now. Intently, but Niers didn’t want to tell war stories. It was not the time. He took a deeper drink of wine. Grimaced.
“Oelnnox is a facility where Jungle Tails embarked on a program to take children—Lizardfolk children from their own people—and turn them into assets. They experimented. They broke the Minacien Wall. They gained blood classes and Skills down there, and the worst part was that they were very, very good at what they did. They did it, you see, because of Forgotten Wing. They were trying to make weapons to win the war.”
“Dead gods. And the children? They—how many did you save?”
“Save? None, Wil. They saved themselves. My forces found the facility, killed the Lizardfolk forces in the region, but when we arrived, it was already cleared of Jungle Tails soldiers. The children rose up. They killed their wardens. Killed the [Soldiers]. And you know what I did after that?”
Wil scrubbed at his hair, thinking, face scrunched up with horror, but Yerranola had gone still. Watching him.
“I imagine you’d need healers, to find their families. The amount of energy and time you’d have to devote to that would be…”
“You didn’t let them out, did you, Professor?”
Yerra interrupted, and Wil’s head shot up. Niers raised his cup.
“No, indeed I did not, Yerra. I had the facility cordoned off. Stationed a garrison force there. For a decade, I have had food and medicine, and [Healers] and [Mages] sent there. It costs a small fortune. But I have not let them out.”
“But, sir! Why…how dangerous are they?”
Wil objected instinctively, then grew pensive, nervous. And the atmosphere that hung around the Titan—like soiled air, greasy, filled with cold sins and lukewarm energy—grew staler still.
“You’re about to find out, Wil. Now, listen to me, you two. I am giving you command over the garrison when you get there. Review their documentation. I had a list of the peculiars, but that bastard, Peclir, stole it. Jungle Tails must still want the facility…they’ll have copies on site. They’ve taken the facility four times over the years. Never took it back, just managed to wipe out my garrisons or bypass them. They never took the children out. They were massacred.”
This confused Wil. He raised a hand as if he were in class, and Yerra grinned at him, and he turned red.
“Pardon me, Professor, but why did you allow it? You beat Jungle Tails. The fact that they had special agents or forces—now after they’ve rebuilt, I understand, but why…?”
Why didn’t you curtail them before now? It seemed like a glaring weakness, but Niers just glanced up and smiled bleakly.
“Holding territory when you’re unwanted and the native populations are against you isn’t ever easy, Wil. They always fight back. You can either try to kill them all or tamp down on all the fires being started. But inevitably, they organize and gather their strength. Unless you murder every last one of them, all the children, burn down their homes, salt the earth—”
He wore a terrible expression then. One of understanding, and he turned it on Wil.
“I did not. I won many Lizardfolk over, but never the majority. And Wil. When you study this, look to Terandrian colonies. Your kingdoms never learn. The latest ones you lost were in Chandrar. You’ve had them on other continents. One could argue the King of Destruction was a direct result of the last time your people held ground. So no, I didn’t crush all of Jungle Tails. It’s hard. Hard to shoot down a hundred thousand Lizardfolk civilians forming a living wall between them and their temples.”
He shook his head.
“—Besides, if I’d done that, every single one of them would have started fighting again. Jungle Tails was an adversary best left beaten, not forced into a corner. I thought I’d have more time. Oelnnox…that was just a way of keeping them from making their resurgence sooner.”
Niers was thumbing through the journal absently. Remembering. He wiped his hand on his jacket a few times. Grimaced despite the good wine.
“Where was I? Ah, yes. They’d kill Jungle Tails, even now. You’ll have a shot if you fly my flags; the ones who hold the upper levels will trust you a bit more. But I am allowing you to go there because Erin wants to see it. It’s a test of her, and frankly, it might solve the issue of the facility. I know Jungle Tails will come back. The last thing I need is for them to somehow take command of the kids.”
“So we’re going to try to ally with them? Persuade them, sir? Or ensure no one takes the facility?”
“I don’t know, Wil. Investigate. See what Erin does. See what Geneva does. Whatever your conclusion, I will analyze and judge in fairness. Even if you have to raze the entire place and salt the earth. I know what I should have done, but I can’t do it.”
The [Lord] of the Hundred Families of Terandria did not like being told that in the same breath as ‘children’. Yerranola, though, just glanced at Niers.
“Professor, what do you mean by ‘should have done’? You mean let them out? Or…or given them mercy?”
“Yerra!”
Niers glanced at her, and his lips quirked in amusement.
“Oh, no, Yerra. Those two options would be disastrous for Baleros’ citizens, or Foliana would kill me. I think literally kill me. No, I know exactly what to do with Oelnnox. I just…can’t.”
He sloshed the wine around in his cup and sighed as the two [Strategists] leaned forwards. He hated this. But because they had to grow up, because they were his best students, the Titan removed a bit of that lovely mask he wore. The Professor they loved looked up and spoke softly.
“It would be so easy to do it. The optimal move is to let them out. Arm them. Point them at Jungle Tails and just let them loose. A single [Long Range Teleport] spell and you have a distraction that will bleed Jungle Tails of resources and attention for…well, if some of them could even be killed. Even if not Jungle Tails, they’d make excellent irregulars. They aren’t beyond that, some of them.”
He drummed his hands on the table, thinking of the Selphids who’d quit his forces.
“Better yet, they have nowhere to go. Small chance the other Great Companies would be able to buy their loyalty easily. That’s why it’s so hard. You see? It’s always tempting to do. I’ve thought about it so many times. Everyone loves to have a secret weapon. Everyone has blackbook operations, experiments, failsafes. But morality says no, don’t do the expedient thing. Don’t run down the retreating forces. Don’t make examples. Don’t use every weapon that comes to hand.”
Wil was growing increasingly disturbed.
“Professor, I…I’m glad that you haven’t repeated Jungle Tails’ folly. If there is a solution, we’ll find—”
“What? Folly? Oelnnox wasn’t a failure, Wil. It was a success. True, they made stupid errors, but it was a tremendous asset.”
Niers interrupted, and now his eyes were gleaming. This time, even Yerra seemed disconcerted as the two [Students] sat back.
“But, sir, you said that the facility was lost. The children—”
“Jungle Tails took some out. Only, what, twenty, thirty? They put about a thousand times that number in there. Before you gasp, Wil, the Lizardfolk are the most prolific species in Baleros—so long as they can support their offspring—bar none. So let’s call that around two decades of research, material, supplies, thirty thousand children, for thirty kids. It was worth it.”
“What happened to the children they took out?”
Niers flicked a report over the desk at them. He realized it was too small for them and smiled crookedly.
“Most of them perished fighting for Jungle Tails. A few of them you’d know. One of them is going up against Calanfer and the Iron Vanguard now, actually. Illex Twiceborn is an alumnus of Oelnnox.”
Yerranola did know that name and inhaled. Wil was brushing at his arms. Niers whispered.
“Do you know how hard it is to get someone who’s Level 40 or has the potential to rise higher? It was worth it just for the alumni. Now understand that Illex was just a kid down there. There’s far bigger fish than him swimming in the depths of Oelnnox.”
“Then why not make use of them, Professor? If this is the situation you’ve been handed, wouldn’t it be better on all sides to offer them positions in Forgotten Wing?”
Wil tried one last time, searching for some reason in this. He glanced at the Titan’s face as the candlelight flickered over the Fraerling’s expression. Niers was blank as he raised a goblet to his features.
“I could lie to you, but the truth is they were conditioned to hate my company. I could use some…but it’s the weapon, Wil. Sometimes you don’t reach for the weapon, because that’s the only reason you’re still better than they are.”
He swished his wine around in his cup, talking to himself.
“The problem, yes the problem with making living weapons is that they inevitably ask ‘why’ at some point. They always demand freedom. Such a dire weak point no one ever seems willing to engage with when someone says, ‘let’s make an army of child-soldiers’. They must think it’ll work out.”
He laughed, and no one joined in. Niers flicked his eyes to Wil and Yerra.
“There’s no controlling them, not perfectly. Some of the children got out, despite my best efforts. Do your homework. Now, I’ll leave you with that.”
They stood, awkward and uncertain. Rattled. Yerranola paused by the door and called back once as Niers sat there, staring at the shadows.
“Professor, what’s the ideal outcome for you? If you got all your wishes?”
Niers glanced up. He blinked at her, then thought for a moment before replying.
“Best outcome, Yerra? Good question. Fair question. I suppose…on the way into the facility, Wil trips on a Scroll of Time Travel. If you find it, I have a letter I’d love to send back with you. Top shelf on that cabinet, behind the third book.”
He pointed without looking, and Yerranola waited. Niers waved at her.
“Good night, Yerra.”
The door closed. After a moment, Seneschal Atmodeca came by with a second bottle.
“Stewing in darkness, commander? Or light?”
“Stewing, Atmodeca, thank you. Oh, and please put away the valuables.”
She bustled around the table a few seconds, then left him alone. Niers poured himself another cup and went back to work, organizing the front into the Dyed Lands. He was waiting, but rather suspected…
It was hours into the morning, in fact, before his second guest burst into the room. Niers jerked from the chair where he’d put his legs up on the table to sleep. He glanced up as a huge, furry face appeared in front of him.
“You sent them to Oelnnox?”
For once, Foliana wasn’t playing her disappearing game. Nor was she calm. Her eyes were wide, and the three colors in them were bright, illuminating his room.
“Hello, Foliana—”
She grabbed him with one paw, lifted him up. Niers didn’t struggle, though normally he would have poked her with his sword for that kind of thing. He had a terribly dry mouth from drinking.
“Atmodeca, any water around?”
The seneschal opened the door.
Foliana’s head swung around to stare at the Beastkin.
The door closed. Niers sighed. Foliana hissed at him.
“You sent them to—”
“Yes, I did. You had your shots, Foliana, and I won’t do what I want to. They found out, anyways; some idiot parent found Miss Erin on the road, and Geneva’s been poking around our files. They want to see.”
“Call them back.”
They must have just left. Niers yawned and noted daylight through the cracks in the blinds of his windows. He shook his head.
“No.”
“They’re going to kill—they are children.”
“Not anymore, Foliana. Even the youngest must be—”
She slapped him back on the desk and glared at him. Niers caught himself, unsteady, as her head lowered to eye-level with him.
“You have to—I’m going with—”
“We’re fighting a war, Foliana. So are you. Trust the Winter Sprites. Trust Ryoka Griffin and to luck. Trust Erin or our Last Light. And if you don’t trust any of that to be enough for Oelnnox…”
Niers wobbled over to his wine bottle and tried to pour, but it was empty. He sighed, cursed, and looked around for some water instead.
“…they’ve kept the lid on themselves for all this time. Well, it’s getting raised either way, Foliana. Jungle Tails will make a play for that facility. Time’s up. They have to choose. I’m sorry.”
She vanished. He called after her back before the door to his rooms could swing open.
“Go with them and you’ll get our people killed while you waste time, and you’ll just bring them to ruin. They know you. They don’t know Erin, Geneva, or Ryoka.”
He didn’t hear a reply, but after a moment, someone opened the door and slammed it so hard the sound reverberated down the corridor. After a few more seconds, Atmodeca cautiously entered with a pitcher of water. Niers grimaced as he sat back in his chair.
“Well, that’s that, then. Atmodeca, I want a constant [Scrying] spell on Oelnnox activated in two day’s time. The moment you get a missive from Wil, make it second-highest priority and flag to me immediately.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon.”
He searched around for a hat. Time to get back to war. The Titan turned and put Oelnnox from his mind. It was just one place, and each passing hour he had to make decisions that would save or damn tens of thousands of lives.
Besides. Maybe he was getting old, but there were just some dungeons a Named-rank adventurer didn’t want to enter. He was no adventurer anymore. The Titan closed his eyes for a moment and sat back in his chair.
A moment later, a little alarm rang as Atmodeca shook the bell that told him he should be waking up. He groaned and stretched.
The Titan of Baleros stood up and got to work.
 
——
 
Good [Strategists] never drank before a battle. Just like good [Warriors] or adventurers didn’t have a tumble in the sheets before a dangerous engagement. Your mind or body had to be sharp, and especially as you aged, liquor had a deleterious effect on your capacities, even a day later.
Niers Astoragon hadn’t slept well on top of his mild hangover. He chugged a stamina potion, a hangover tonic, and a cup of coffee without sugar in ten seconds as Atmodeca offered him a platter.
Do as I say, not as I do. The Professor was well aware of what the optimal move was. However, he was no Golem.
It was true that a good [Strategist] shouldn’t drink before doing their duty with thousands of lives on the line. But [Soldiers]? Soldiers hopped into bed before a battle. They were famous for it.
That was the difference between Niers and a clean-cut [Strategist] from, say, Manus’ academies or the war-academies in Terandria’s Taimaguros Dominion. He was Baleros’ child.
Mercenary. It ran in his blood. So yes, he regretted the second bottle of wine. He regretted not getting more sleep, and his mind ran to Oelnnox, the place he had sent Geneva, ‘Erin’, Ryoka, and the others.
Then he pushed it from his thoughts as he strode up into the Fraerways and was mildly shocked, as ever, to find two Tallguard guarding his rooms.
“Lord Astoragon.”
One nodded to him, and Niers nodded back. Fraerlings were already moving about the Fraerways, bustling about. [Mages] carting samples of monsters from the Dyed Lands past off-duty Tallguard and soldiers from their cities, who eyed him, the most famous Fraerling in the entire world. Disappointed, perhaps, he wasn’t a foot tall and breathing fire with eyes like General Diomedes, the Cyclops.
Niers ignored the looks and strode forward, speaking into a stone.
“Strategist Vler, I’m awake and moderately alive. Are we ready?”
“Your special class students are assembled, though I note Wil and Yerranola are with their group, sir. I have your Skerhawk ready, and your route has been announced. May I suggest a teleportation spell—again?”
“I’m allergic to teleportation after Izril. Begin in, let’s say, thirty-five. Iuncuta Eirnos! My compliments.”
He switched off the speaking stone and saw the one-eyed Fraerling commander striding his way. She was scowling as per usual.
“Lord Astoragon, I was informed we would not be joining you while moving towards the Dyed Lands. Why?”
The Fraerlings were ready to go with flying ‘steeds’ of their own—everything from little robin-sized birds to a damn albatross that could carry Rozcal and his Crelerbane armor to the front. They normally flew stealthily, and she clearly did not like being kept out of the loop, but she was one force in the Forgotten Wing. For all their technology, levels, the Fraerlings were only in force in Elvallian, the capital.
Niers knew how many armies he had pulled towards the Dyed Lands, still spitting waves of color in every direction. A hundred miles of land had been overrun by them, and four Great Companies were barely keeping them contained.
Iron Vanguard and Maelstrom’s Howling held the north. Forgotten Wing held the east, and the western front was mostly being fought by Jungle Tails. The Eyes of Baleros, the Gazer-led company, was also defending their jungles, but what the scope of the war was, not even Niers could fully say.
But it was Jungle Tails and Forgotten Wing, who were both at war with each other and the monsters, that had the most forces here.
This was their land. Theoretically, their problem alone, but the other two groups, Centaurs and Dullahans, weren’t going to miss the glory or rewards from these new monsters. But until today, the Forgotten Wing hadn’t made a push as dramatic as the Bannermare in halting this apocalyptic event.
Moving people took time. Moving large numbers of people took weeks or months, even with the trade roads and organization. Moving one person, like the Fraerlings?
That was so easy. Niers replied absently as he strode down towards one of his assembly halls.
“No, Iuncuta. I do invite you to beat me to our destination, but for security reasons, I travel alone.”
“I see. And the Tallguard would not be ample bodyguards compared to your Tallfolk escort?”
He sighed but hid it as they strode along.
“It’s not a competition, Iuncuta.”
“Of course not.”
“Plus, I’m not taking any. Students! The hour has come.”
Niers burst out of the doors leading into his assembly hall, and they jumped. He strode down the steps in his frumpled red coat, adjusting the hat on his head, red-eyed, though they probably couldn’t see that.
They, by contrast, had polished up. Marian wore metal barding on her Centaur half and armor on her Human torso. Venaz was in full plate, as was Merrik. Peki had donned the clothing of Pomle. Kissilt, Jekilt, and Cameral weren’t present, but that was because they were already en-route.
Of course, he had more students, but they weren’t ready for this. Plenty of younger students like Princess Angelica and Xelic were jostling to see. They expected a speech, but Niers just strode onto the pedestal and spoke distractedly.
“Vler. Who’s the [Strategist] commanding the frontline defense on the eastern approach today?”
“That would be…Lizvek, sir.”
“Lizvek. Damn. We’re going to get on like a Stitch-folk on fire. Has that control freak figured out a viable strategy against any of the colors?”
“He does quite well against the black monsters, which I believe is the current color on the eastern front.”
“Well, we’ll see. Right. Students—”
Niers glanced up, and they were unsettled. The Professor sometimes swore, but he was usually more put-together. Teacherish, professional. The loudness spell audibly picked up his stomach growling. Without a word, Eirnos handed Niers a rations bar, and he took one bite and grimaced.
“Dead gods. What in Rhir’s hells is this, Eirnos? Cricket?”
“Tallguard staple, Niers.”
He shuddered.
“Good to know even among our people, travel food tastes like horse leavings. Right, students. I am heading to the Dyed Lands. This is the beginning of the Forgotten Wing’s push back against the monsters. Frankly, strategically, I would have preferred to have taken the fight to them over a month ago. We would have done just that, but the war with Jungle Tails means that entire armies have to combat them. The realities of a multi-front war. You recall my lectures about how fun it is to fight multiple foes at once?”
“Yes, sir. Uh, don’t do it?”
That came from Umina, and there was scattered laughter. Nervous—Venaz shifted, and Niers eyed his greatsword, the green diamond sword, a Relic-class blade. He nodded at it.
“Well, that’s reality. The King of Destruction can relate. With that said, I have an announcement. Today, the lessons end. I am going to be calling on all my students assigned to frontline duty to act as [Strategists]. You aren’t graduated, but you’re ready. If you’re not, we will find out, but this isn’t class. That doesn’t mean you stop learning. But what you are going to learn, what I trust you to observe is…”
He paused, closing his eyes and thinking, and the analogy came to him at once. Something he’d been chewing on of late.
“The difference for many of you is that you come from nations with rulers. Even if they’re not monarchs, be it a Walled City or anywhere else—you have men and women who rule. They do not always lead. Whether or not they inspire…I hope you will analyze the difference in my conduct. If you don’t understand the difference between those words, find a dictionary. I will see you at the city of Illgrem when you arrive. Marian, take lead with Venaz and move yourself at all reasonable speed.”
That was it. No precise instructions, no hand-holding. Get to where you need to be and report in. There was a terror to vagueness, to having to do things yourselves, but his instincts to hold their hands and coddle them—no, he’d trained them better than that.
Terror was replaced by confidence—or at least, the ability to master terror—on his students’ faces. Niers turned, then had a thought.
“Felk.”
The Drake [Teacher], who would be taking over the younger classes with Perorn and Niers absent, glanced up as Niers spun on his heel.
“Niers?”
“Have your classes calculate just how much gold I’m spending today. It should be eye-opening.”
That was it. The Fraerling finished adjusting his coat, washed down the gritty cricket-bar with some water from a flask, and turned on his heel. He left the Professor behind him as he strode back into the Fraerways. Then the Titan of Baleros was jogging to make it up to the landing pads to keep his schedule. The students muttered, then heard and saw him depart Elvallian for the front.
All of Baleros did, if they cared to look. Scrying spells—though this was not interesting news that would make the likes of Lord Molen race to watch—there were eyes on him, because he was one of the most important beings in Baleros. And because he told them he was coming.
 
——
 
A hawk flew from Elvallian’s landing pads, carrying the Fraerling in the air. He sat in a custom-made saddle that actually had gravity spells and a damn desk; he was writing orders on the fly, organizing his forces. Below him, the city became smaller, and he flew in a straight line from here to his destination.
Over the trade roads moving with people, the jungles buzzing to life, a single hawk—albeit one not native to Baleros—soaring towards the Dyed Lands.
But they looked up. People halted on the roads and pointed. Scrying spells covered the road ahead since they could not lock onto him, and entire cities glanced at the tiny figure they could barely see.
The Titan of Baleros’ shadow fell over them, and he passed, too tiny but felt. He did not restrain his aura. Yet how did they know in advance he was coming?
He told them.
“The, uh, Titan of Baleros is heading for the Dyed Lands in person, which indicates to me that we may be seeing a full push from the Forgotten Wing company against these monsters. Our coverage has mostly focused on the New Lands, but I suppose it’s all land, all the time these days, eh, Sir Relz?”
“Er, yes, ha-ha, Noass. It’s rather economical as travel-plans go. My, just look at that. A straight line from here to…”
Wistram News Network on the side of the desk. Niers glanced at a tiny image of himself and a map where a red line was marking his route. The two Drakes were staring at it, running idle commentary.
“Must be a slow news day.”
Perhaps it fascinated royalty of other nations more than Balerosians. Niers was by himself. No bodyguards, big or small. Heading over terrain his company held or independent zones towards the front. With Jungle Tails at war with him? After his last assassination attempt?
Yes and yes. Vler was right that there were easier, faster ways to do this, though this was quick enough. But you did this the suboptimal way because you made a point.
The Titan flew, and no spell materialized out of the air to burn his hawk out of the skies. No rain of magical arrows. No curse.
There was a flicker of magic to the left. Niers glanced up as Vler chirped in his earpiece.
“That’s six so far, Niers.”
“Mhm. I’m putting together an army from our units. Forwarding.”
“Ooh. A full board of pieces?”
“Yep. Have Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk be the vanguard and put Venaz with the Axes.”
“I’m sure he’ll enjoy that. Should I attach Marian to Jirem’s group? She’d benefit from watching him work.”
“No on Marian unless you can’t find another spot for her. She’s not going to be an asset for Jirem. Double provisions for Jirem. I’m going to want to see the front in person for a day or two. Foliana should be around. When she deigns to pop up, have the Named-rankers meet with her. If she likes them, we’re good. If not, find Gold-rankers or a team. Oh, and Iuncuta’s forces are coming by. Put them with the full-board army.”
Niers was writing it all down, of course, but this was important…he rubbed at his forehead.
“Damn hangovers. Wait…I need a [Druid].”
“Ours or just one…?”
“Ugh. Get me one that’s not hugging trees, will you? I don’t care from where. I can wait a few days on that. More orders to come.”
Another flare of light on his left side. This time, Niers turned his head. The Skerhawk made an unsettled sound.
“That felt like a big one.”
Niers watched idly and heard the two Drakes on the scrying orb exclaim after a few minutes.
“Another one. Let’s see! This is rather uncanny, Sir Relz. Do you think that’s really all hostile magic?”
“We have to take them at their word, I suppose. We are asking Wistram to confirm…aha.”
Sir Relz adjusted his monocles.
“It says to our viewers, ‘[Ray of Incineration] neutralized by Magus Gribbles. Sender: Jungle Tails’. Ancestors. Isn’t that Tier 5 magic?”
Niers snorted.
“Magus Gribbles.”
He was distracted for a full five minutes looking up if they had a ‘Magus Gribbles’ on record. Sometimes the [Mages] got cute. More writing appeared in the air of a similar nature.
 
‘[Rain of Light Arrows] neutralized by Shaman Zibs. Hey, Mom and Dad! Sent by King of Destruction?’
‘Curse from somewhere in Rhir, deflected by [Witch] Coven Neilvek. Buy our charms.’
 
That was why people watched, of course. Show of, if not force, then authority. Here I am, flying. Shoot me down if you can. And if you can’t, then everyone knows that the Forgotten Wing company goes where it wants.
That was what his company had lost after Jungle Tails, Niers felt. A bit of the authority, the reputation that made them a Great Company of Baleros. It was a reflection on him; his reputation suffered, and everyone started saying, ‘this is it, they’re finished’.
His job was to remind them, each and every time, that this was just their willful imaginations. He won and lost and had come this far. Now, he had another war to win.
Two. For once, Niers would have rather had some peace, to find the real Erin, to deal with the other events in this world. But he had to own…the Dyed Lands?
He smiled. The Fraerling leaned forwards in his seat, staring ahead where he fancied he could see the whirling shades of color, like a hurricane, spiraling outwards from the center of the original Dyed Lands. Beautiful calamity. It called to him. It sounded like death and danger for so many. It sounded like fun.
He liked killing monsters.
 
——
 
Now, if you were a grunt, a real [Mercenary], even one in service to Forgotten Wing, you weren’t celebrating when you got an order to form up and roll over to the front.
In fact, when Illgrem was listed as the rendezvous point, the entire regiment of Skeldriv groaned or cheered. They were Lizardfolk predominantly; they didn’t just take Lizardfolk, as one of their [Captains] proved, but you tended to get mostly your species as volunteers.
Lizardfolk and Nagas, actually. More than one Medusa hailed from Skeldriv, having evolved during the course of fighting. It was a prestigious regiment; they weren’t some mucktails from the boonies with slings and cheap iron spears, no.
Their Lizardfolk wore armor, swaggered around with Minotaurs three feet taller than they were, and had the levels and experience to match. They were a good company, and their mixed reactions to the new front were, well, joy and dismay.
Dismay because you might die, because fighting these new monsters was gonna suck. Joy because this meant combat pay. And if the Titan was leading them or they were going to do hard stuff, the gold flowed.
And they loooved gold. Gold meant you were paying for your family, who was nagging you. Gold meant you were patching your armor or getting that enchanted weapon. Gold paid for those kids that definitely weren’t yours, or maybe they were, you’d been drunk. And maybe, if you were lucky, you had some actual gold saved up for when you were going to retire, which was ‘someday—why are you getting on my tail about this?’.
Gold made the wine flow. So, Skeldriv began to mobilize with fairly good speed. Mostly, it was grabbing all the soldiers out of the bars, doing a headcount, cleaning up so the next unit and the Forgotten Wing company didn’t shout at you for making a mess. They’d been posted in a city near-ish to the Dyed Lands front, on holiday after going up against Jungle Tails for two months.
That had been unpleasant. Partly because sometimes you fought and won or lost, but on the way out there was always one Lizardfolk who it turned out was actually Jungle Tails and had run after your group, thinking you were on the same side.
Poor idiots. Then you got called ‘traitor’ for not following the real Nagas, and so on and so forth. Skeldriv was with Forgotten Wing. The Titan paid better than the Nagas. They liked him. He won battles. That was all there was to it. If someone wanted to be an egghead about species and culture, they could head out, and, well, they’d better hope they never ran into the Titan’s strategies.
Skeldriv weren’t full-on dedicated yet, though. Just mercs. They had been offered three times to ‘headquarter’ a city. That was like how the Featherfolk Brigade had owned Talenqual, only it was under Forgotten Wing. You drew your recruits from that city, sort of became their law enforcement, protectors, and drew a portion of their revenues all at once. You still gave a lot to Forgotten Wing, but it made you established.
They’d voted on it, but each time Skeldriv had felt like it was just too much work, you know? They liked to roam. Headquartering meant you had to defend the city if trouble came. Maybe if they found the right city that was rich or well-placed enough…somewhere with a lovely beach. Talenqual would be awesome if the Fraerlings liked them.
“Who’re we fighting with, Plaxima?”
A Medusa named Eyevil was slithering around to find a fellow [Captain] still lazing in his tents who hadn’t heard the muster. She was new to her form, having evolved last year. Being a Medusa was awesome; she had snakes for ‘hair’, and she could sort of smell and taste what they did. She had eye-powers and respect…but everyone teased her about the name. Sometimes you took a new name to symbolize how you left your childish ways behind, and she’d panicked and—
Eyevil couldn’t go a week without some new recruit hearing her name and laughing their tail off. A Gorgon slithering next to her, another woman with six arms and a lot more height and mass, grunted.
“Sounds like Jirem’s Hooves are with us. I heard a claim that we were going to march with the Closedhelms and Shoreaxes. Plus, someone saw a flight of Garuda and Drakes coming in.”
Eyevil’s own magical eyes widened. She knew what that meant.
“Oh Nagas, that means we’re probably going to spearhead the attack? At least we’ve got serious help! Does that mean we won’t have to serve under Lizvek? I heard he was in command and—”
Neither one wanted to work under the punctilious, picky [Strategist]. Their regiment didn’t do perfect deployments and could fudge orders by accident, which Lizvek hated. The Gorgon grinned with all her sharp teeth.
“Sounds like it, Eyevy.”
“Balsamic is going to throw a fit.”
“When does he not?”
Plaxima halted outside of the tent where a loud snore was emanating from. Eyevil slapped the tent flaps once and entered; she had little concern about her fellow [Captain]’s modesty. You saw a lot in any merc company.
‘Balsamic’—or Balsam, his actual name—was another well-known [Captain] in the regiment for two reasons. The first was that his nickname was hilarious and everyone called him that. He had good humor about it, though, which was why he survived among the Lizardfolk.
Oh, and the second reason he was memorable was because he was a Drake. Eyevil eyed his ruby-red scales and rather impressive form as he jerked upright.
“Who the—oh hello, Eyevil. Took me up on my offer?”
He reached for a weapon, then tried to pose in his tangled sheets, clearly thinking he was getting lucky. Eyevil rolled her eyes as the Gorgon, Plaxima, slithered into the tent and snorted.
“In your dreams, Balsamic.”
“Two ladies at once? I can—aw, damnit, we’re being mobilized.”
Balsamic groaned as he realized what was going on. Eyevil snorted. Both she and Plaxima eyed his crotch for a moment, and not for the reasons he was hoping. Plaxima literally slithered back out of the tent as he swung out of bed. He tried to flirt with Plaxima, but she was already gone.
“We’re moving in fifteen! Get Vinegar company ready, Balsamic!”
Yes, his company was named Vinegar because they had to be. Balsamic was tugging on his clothing and hunting for boots.
“Where are we headed?”
Eyevil saw no reason to lie.
“Dyed Lands. Looks like the Titan himself might take command of us.”
She knew his face was going to fall and his eyes scrunch up. The Drake began kicking his articles of clothing around, swearing.
“That bastard! Argh. The Dyed Lands? Really?”
He was not enthusiastic when it came to risking his life, but he’d fight well. Eyevil shrugged and squinted at something. She petrified a roach.
“Dead gods, Balsamic, your tent is filthy.”
“Hey, it probably just snuck in here. Believe me, my sheets are clean as can be. I really thought you were…fancy a drink before we go into combat?”
He was flirting with her, but then, Balsamic flirted with any woman he met. Lizardfolk, Centaur, Dullahan, Human—he was the most open-minded Drake she’d ever met; not that their kind came to Baleros often. Eyevil snorted.
“You have as much chance with me as Plaxima.”
“So can I buy you both drinks or…?”
“Zero, Balsamic.”
He cursed as he struggled to put some boots on; he was going to be ready in ten despite his cluttered tent.
“Really? Why? I was doing great, and now you’re all giving me the cold tail!”
He didn’t know? Eyevil hesitated at the entrance to his tent. Last year, she would have just slithered in and helped him pick up or lain on his bed, but—she sighed.
“Balsam, you idiot. No one wants to sleep with you, even if you’re fun and don’t take things seriously, because everyone knows you’ve been hitting the brothels nonstop every time we get paid.”
He looked affronted.
“So? I don’t have kids running about. I’m very anti-kid. Everyone knows that.”
She rolled her eyes again.
“Balsam…you did it all last year. During the Yellow Rivers thing? Plaxima herself saw you walking out of a brothel twice when it was at its worst.”
He hesitated. Seemed confused, then groaned.
“Oh—”
“Everyone thinks you’re dripping with the stuff!”
“Hey! I’m clean as can be! Plus, there’s a cure!”
“No one wants to sleep with someone who had it, even if there’s a cure.”
Dismayed, the Drake began tossing his possessions into a trunk.
“No, no, wait, Eyevil, this is a huge mistake! I’m clean! I’m pristine. I’m not sick; I never get sick!”
“Sure, I’ve heard that one before.”
Every [Mercenary] said that, but the Drake was yanking on his trousers.
“Wait, it’s true! Take a look!”
“I don’t want to—sometimes you can’t see. Look, I believe you, but you have to realize it was stupid.”
The Drake spread his claws as he followed the Medusa out of the tent.
“I’m not infected! I swear! I’ll get a [Healer] to give me a clean bill of health!”
She just shook her head as she slithered off to find her company, and he screamed after her to the amusement of every Lizardfolk in earshot. Seriously. Everyone in the company had heard the Titan’s warning, but only one idiot had kept visiting the brothels even when everyone knew it was bad.
But that was Balsamic, their idiot Drake. They loved him, but…she’d tell Plaxima he was getting a [Healer] to vouch for him. He was right that he never got sick, and he fought like a Demon, but dead gods.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon’s mind was finally working when he saw the huge mass of tinted air ahead of him, and the Skerhawk began to slow, cawing warily. The ‘black’ color was moving across the land like a wave of dust, though it was really a manifestation of all the animals and monsters dyed that one color.
Each color had a power, and they seemed to be territorial and work together. Despite having radically different shapes, no monster from the same color hunted the other. It was like the ultimate team; they fought anything not of their color, and they moved in huge waves, spiralling out from the Dyed Lands. The only reason these monsters hadn’t rampaged further was because each color seemed to be fighting each other as much as the armies trying to hem them in.
But it was a difficult, wide battlefront. How did you stop literal swarms of creatures? Well, Niers had watched the Bannermare, Aria Fellstrider, and her people stopping the green when Ryoka ran her scouting mission.
Magic, thousands of soldiers, and fire. Lots of fire. Even now, he could see smoke rising from the front, past what looked like a thick line of defenses.
Lizvek’s work. It seemed like there was a lull in fighting; monster corpses were being hacked up and carted off or burned, along with the ground.
That was the thing. The Dyed Lands stained the ecosystems they passed through. Where a wave of green went, they’d leave plants, even the earth, tainted by their passage. Whether or not it made more beings like them, no company wanted to find out. They had to literally scorch the grounds before advancing.
Still—the waves had been held here. Lizvek was just one of the top-commanders positioned on the front lines. Though he…
He and Niers were not buddies. Lizvek was, like many, a graduate from Niers’ academy, but Niers had never gotten along with the man. The Stitch-folk with a pair of glasses and a clipboard was a [Strategist]’s strategist. Even now, he was just strutting along the command tent.
“Sector 5b is running at 7/10th’s ammunition. [Restore Supplies]! Have a runner go to Section 6b, 2b, and 3b with exact quarrel replacements each!”
As in, don’t just send 500 sheaves of bolts each, send exactly enough so that they all had the same amounts. Niers rolled his eyes as his hawk landed. No one sent a crowd to greet him, though some soldiers did cheer—they had a job to do.
“Lizvek, good work on the front! Beautiful defensive lines as always. Can you apprise—”
Lizvek held up a hand and stared at something in his head. His Skill, which let him monitor his entire battlefield, was telling him something he didn’t like. He whirled and shouted.
“Sector 6b has nine hundred and ninety-eight units of ammunition! Send two more, you idiots!”
—And there was the problem. Niers kept his face straight as junior [Tacticians] went running to effect this meaningless change. It wasn’t Lizvek’s fault—okay, he could try harder.
He just…had a quirk. He liked round numbers. He liked having all his ducks in a row—in fact, he insisted they be in neat squares, and Giants help you if you were off. His formations were symmetrical, and he insisted his troops adhere to this organized routine.
Most companies hated him. Niers himself didn’t get along with Lizvek, but after a moment of enraged breathing, someone spoke.
“Strategist, two units being sent to Sector 6b at once.”
“There. Thank you, Strategist—”
“Cameral, sir.”
The Dullahan’s head spoke from a table, and Lizvek gave him a grudging nod. Then, and only then, did he address Niers without so much as a hello.
“At least one of your new [Strategists] can work properly. I don’t like this assignment, Niers. I’ll be glad to rotate somewhere I have to stop adapting.”
Niers grunted, and he didn’t speak like the Professor as Cameral stood there respectfully. He spoke like the Titan: direct, even casual with subordinates.
“Tough. You were the only person for the job, and you’ve done well against—what are we calling this? ‘Black?’”
Lizvek shrugged.
“The soldiers have all kinds of nicknames. I go by color. I can handle the Stygian monsters, but we’ve had hints of the next color—Azure. I don’t—like—them. My formations cannot hold them.”
Yep, he was stressed. Niers pointed at Lizvek as he beckoned.
“Reports. Let me see what the front looks like. I have a full-board army coming to push the front, Lizvek, and you can fall back in a few days. I like ‘Stygian’. Let’s go with that. Good thing you weren’t up against, uh…Chartreuse?”
“More like Jade-green. And yes, I would not have enjoyed them. I’m surprised Fellstrider handled them. But then, she had an Archmage.”
Now that he was on the front, Niers’ mind was working. He saw a classic killbox in front of him; it was wide, since the monsters would come from a lot of angles, but Lizvek had chosen his ideal spot for an engagement: some natural hills he had turned into a pass.
Control the terrain. He’d done classic Lizvek things, like putting trap spells on the tops of the hills to encourage monsters to stream down the pass. Then he’d, well, made everything as deadly and inhospitable to a charging monster as could be.
Trenches of soldiers waiting to stop an attack. Barricades of spiked metal above and around, and the checkerboard formation of troops, many armed with crossbows or spellcaster units, each one able to pick a different target and fire.
Lizvek had even had a hill made and terraces built for each sector at regular intervals, so their lines of fire wouldn’t overlap. It was the kind of defensive fortification he specialized in, and it would make any ordinary force take one look at his setup and go anywhere else but down the front.
Good thing he was up against monsters. Niers heard a rumbling from up ahead, and Lizvek cursed.
“They’re early. Have you seen the Dyed Land monsters yet, Niers?”
“Only a few, no mass combat on the level you’ve seen.”
“Then you have your chance. Purification and barrier spells up on the front! Sectors ready!”
He shouted, and a series of speaking stones he’d arranged in front of him lit up, each one indicating a unit. Niers saw the cloud of stygian darkness ahead of him shift. He narrowed his eyes.
“It’s been a while since I saw a monster horde.”
They came by the thousands. Not all of them large—most of the Stygian black were actually smaller than the other colors. Many had long, furtive forms—he saw a distinctly long-nosed creature with huge, black feathery fronds around it burst out of the darkness and shuffle forwards.
It looked like an unsettling bush, though he imagined it was completely disadvantaged in the light. In its color, it would be a nigh-invisible hunter. But it moved, and the darkness seemed to come with it.
A swarm of scuttling rats, running too high off the ground with long legs, but very much like the rats he knew, racing under a cow-sized balloon that just…floated overhead. Huge, circular pores on their body oozing sludge out in rivulets of filth.
Niers knew what this color was. Sure enough, the first creature he’d seen spat something from its long nose or proboscis.
Poison. The globules began hitting walls as the wave of monsters unleashed toxins. Lizvek’s mouth curled, and Cameral wiped his hands on his armor as he spoke.
“Mid-sized wave, Strategist Lizvek.”
“Yes. More floaters than before. That one—that’s a big-sized monster, Niers. I’d call it Gold or Named-rank, depending on how deadly its poison is.”
Lizvek was pointing at one of the largest creatures, a lumbering turtle-thing—if you melted the turtle’s face off and just left some huge jaws that opened and closed. Oh, and you put a kind of stinger’s tail on the back of the turtle’s shell that fired huge globs of poison upwards. They tried to spread out, and Niers imagined this thing could poison an entire battlefield given only a few minutes.
The nastiest monsters I’ve seen in a while, and I’ve seen a lot. The Dyed Lands. Hundreds of years of time flashed by, and they just fought each other, getting stronger and stronger. Great.
Still, Lizvek had been here long enough to do what he did best. He spoke crisply.
“Incoming. Seal the trenches. [Aerial Barrier] spells—now.”
[Mages] began to cast, and the globules being spat upwards burst in the air and showered down over the oncoming monsters before they could reach the trenches. In the meantime, the poison being spat ahead of the monsters hadn’t yet reached the soldiers. They were just coming into range of the crossbows when the true power of Lizvek became clear.
“[Mark Target]. Sector 1b, fire. [Mark Target]. Sector 2b, fire. Sector 3-5b, fire. Sector 6b, fire—”
He stopped shouting his Skill after a moment, but Niers saw targets begin glowing and then being mowed down by hails of crossbow bolts. Each unit Lizvek shouted would aim at his target, loose, then reload as more volleys shot from the defensive lines.
Cameral was speaking with lesser [Strategists]. Niers heard the Dullahan’s voice shaking, but it was steady enough.
“[Mark Target]. Sector 1c, [Lightning Bolts]. Sector 2c, [Light Arrows] on…”
Not everyone had Lizvek’s Skills. The [Strategist] had [Unlimited Mark Target], which Niers personally had never needed. Regardless, it was working.
Rank after rank of his forces fired, then reloaded, slapping bolts into their crossbows. Lizvek loved crossbows. The Forgotten Wing company used them a lot; they were quite dangerous in the hands of even an amateur, and you could standardize them instead of needing to have [Bowyers] carve each one.
Even so, despite the withering hail cutting down the relatively-fragile stygian horde, they just…kept…coming. Trampling over each others’ bodies, leaking black poison—Niers was sure Lizvek didn’t want them to get to the front trenches.
He had troops there, but he hated the unpredictability of a melee. All these qualities meant he was a bad general [Strategist], but he’d turned his personality traits into his greatest asset. Arguably enhanced his problem, but that was how it worked.
More big artillery-turtles were coming along with huge, two-legged creeping monsters. Seven feet tall and with huge bulbous heads and claw-hands folded up to their chests.
They strode forwards, and Niers did not like them. Nor did Lizvek.
“Stygian Embracers. Don’t target them with spells; they seem immune to most elements. Sector 1b, [Mark Target], fire—”
His stones were flickering back as each sector indicated they’d reloaded, but he needed more crossbows! Cameral was looking worried, but Niers just stood there. He could use a Skill if he had to, but he knew Lizvek. The Stitch-man could take a battle off Niers himself if you played his game. And as proof of that, Lizvek’s eyes narrowed, and he activated his best capstone Skill.
The Level 44 [Perfectionist Killzone Strategist]’s eyes gleamed with both mania and outrage. His killzone was perfect. Every line of it was laid out. Every sector supplied to his standards. It would hold. It would hold—
“[Supreme Strategy: My Formation is Perfect. Double Tempo].”
The thunk of crossbows in Niers’ ears began striking twice as fast. He watched as the nearest sector to him began to reload in a blur. The lights on Lizvek’s board began to light up, and he began counting down.
“Fire! Fire! Fire—”
The Stygian horde might have overrun and bled their poisonous blood onto another formation, but not one pumping out the wall of pointed death Lizvek commanded. Twice, monsters actually reached the trenches, but Lizvek was so offended by this stain on his perfect formula that he just pointed.
“[Correct Error]!”
Dead monster corpses vanished before they could leak blood into the troops’ trenches. Holes punched in the wall spells reset. He couldn’t do that more than six times a battle, Niers knew.
Lizvek was a uniquely fragile [Strategist]. One that Niers paid well, but used in specific circumstances. Throw too many errors into his perfect formations and he fell apart. He could still fight decently, but he required this scenario to become a nightmare.
Tulm had taken Lizvek apart more than once, and still, everyone from the Iron Vanguard to Rhir had tried to headhunt him for his talents. But he’d stayed with Forgotten Wing, probably because he just didn’t want to have to institute all his picky changes in another company.
The first wave of monsters slowed, and Niers was impressed, despite his cordial dislike of Lizvek, at how the [Strategist] worked between the flow of monsters. Once the rapid firing was over, he was speaking.
“[Cleanse] spells activate…now!”
[Mages] dashed out of cover, cleaning the ground before the poison presented more of an issue. The dead bodies? Lizvek had sixteen horses dragging Chests of Holding down across the battlefield. They shovelled bodies in, save for the biggest, then dumped them somewhere else before coming back.
“Those Chests of Holding are utterly unfit for anything else given the poison. We’ve had to create literal dump sites for some of the monsters. If they’re valuable, they’re valuable, but the poison…”
Lizvek grimaced at the logistical nightmare of it all, and Niers nodded.
“Why not just leave them where they are if they don’t poison the front? I saw Maelstrom’s Howling do it, and the poison would slow the next wave.”
Lizvek snorted.
“Sadly, even the poisonous corpses appear to be digestible by some of the other waves. Leave them alone and one color will come and eat them all. Crimson.”
“Ah…those ones eat and grow without end?”
“Correct. Maelstrom’s Howling found that out the hard way. When the red color came after green, they grew twice as large on all the dead green corpses that had been left to rot.”
Niers sighed.
“This really is a monster nightmare. Well done on holding an entire color down.”
Lizvek preened as he watched his formations reset.
“Yes, well. I had to show your new students how strategy is performed. And though only one of them meshed with my strategy, I—not again!”
Niers saw it the moment everyone else did. The trickle of dark-colored monsters being picked off was slowing, but there was a sudden shift in the umbral clouds in front of them. The monsters turned, spitting poison back, and then—
Blue. Like a cloud bursting through the night, the darkness was filled by streaks of racing blue, beautifully deep and fast. Niers saw a racing figure tear out of the night, and it looked somewhat like a wolf to him.
Only, it had a long, jagged nose, stiff ‘fur’, and it seemed almost made of rock or metal—but it ran so fast that it was bounding out of the previous color, crunching one of the rat-things in its jaws, as Niers watched. It shook itself, shedding the droplets of venom on its ‘fur’, then gazed ahead.
“Blue! More damn blue! Sector 1a, [Lightning Bolt]! Fire—”
Lizvek panicked the moment he saw the first strains of blue. Niers watched the rank of [Mages] aim at the blue wolf, and bolts of lightning shot across the ground. Not as fast as real lightning, but damn fast. And just as clearly, the Titan saw the wolf tense to the ground, then dodge right.
“Ah.”
The ground exploded, and the wolf appeared to the right, unharmed. It was speed. Speed itself. Niers saw more blurs racing through the darkness and counted.
“Seven, eight…only nine?”
Nine wolf-things appeared out of the darkness, and Lizvek tore at his hair.
“The color is changing. Prepare a [Fireball] spread at my coordinates! Sectors 1-6, you will fire along my marked zones! They don’t have the numbers of the other colors—”
And they didn’t need to. Nine wolf-things burst out of the smoke, jaws coated with the black venom of their prey. Stygian black was retreating, being pushed by the new color coming, and, clearly, Lizvek had not found a strategy that worked on them.
“All designated units, fire!”
Niers watched as the blue hounds raced forwards, saw the [Fireballs] streaking at them, the crossbows firing, and…they dodged everything.
Fireballs exploded in a perfect line, and the blue wolves raced ahead of the blasts or just waited until the detonations happened and continued forward. Crossbow bolts were being fired in a spread, but the animals just dodged each one.
Like the world was in slow motion. Niers grunted.
“They’re coming.”
“Sectors 6-12, fire on my—”
Lizvek panicked, and Cameral shouted.
“Trenches, [Ironguard Formation]! Brace! Brace—”
The wolves hit the trenches, and then there was blood. Niers heard the shouting, screams as the wolves raced into the trenches or kept going, attacking Lizvek’s crossbows.
They were fast. But, he observed, not the most deadly. The wolves could bite and tear before a low-level [Soldier] could block, but they were, well, wolf-sized. They couldn’t kill in a second, and armor stopped their jaws.
It was still bloody, and more than one was trying to drag away a soldier into the mists. However, Lizvek finally nailed two, and another one was running at the front lines when it halted, spewed blue blood onto the ground, and keeled over.
“Poisoned. Huh, they shatter like porcelain.”
Or at least, parts of them did. Niers saw another spray of ceramic ‘armor’ or hide as the [Soldiers] surrounded and bludgeoned a fourth to death. Then the four remaining blue hounds were racing away, and Lizvek cursed a storm.
So much for his perfect defense. No wonder he hated these things; they were made to mess with his ideal formations. They’d overrun any regular force too quickly; no bloodless engagements here.
Niers rubbed at his chin.
“So that’s my color, hm? They come in month-long waves, or longer. What’s after blue?”
“Green, Professor.”
Cameral answered as Lizvek screamed obscenities and began demanding reinforcements sent, trying to fill gaps in the damaged sectors, bring all the ammunition levels up to equal. Niers left him to it.
He’d seen enough. His turn.
 
——
Niers gave several orders in the first two days of his arrival to the front. He’d timed himself well enough; despite the Azure beasts arriving, Lizvek was still mostly cleaning up the Stygian hordes.
Mostly, Niers was doing some groundwork, ensuring his army was ready; like Lizvek, he had his own ‘style’, though he was far more adaptive. Still, he knew eyes would be judging his performance, so he had a conversation with an unhappy [Druid], an unhappy Foliana, and an unhappy Drake in that order.
All three were, by and large, expected. The [Druid] was easiest; Niers had a back-and-forth and some pushback, but none of the Circles of [Druids] in Baleros liked the Dyed Lands. They might love nature and animals, but they could see invasive species like these needed to be stopped.
Foliana? She was still mad about Oelnnox. She snuck up on him as he was making some plans. He’d had a few thoughts and wanted to test them out. Only when he felt the kiss of a dagger against his back did he stiffen.
“Foliana, stop that. Or if that’s not you, do me the dignity of not wasting my time?”
She appeared, glaring.
“Oelnnox. Are they there yet?”
“It’s been two days; no they aren’t, Foliana. You know I had to do that.”
Her glower intensified.
“You’re going to get them hurt or killed.”
“Which means it’s beyond time. Focus, Foliana. Do you think your team works?”
She rolled her eyes. In some ways, they really had grown soft with age. He had to lay out everything for her these days—well, he had Atmodeca lay them out as he instructed, which showed how he’d grown soft.
Maps, supplies, a briefing on the team, and instructions on where to go and what to do in order. Foliana poked at a healing potion, and he snapped.
“Stop that. Not even we get to waste those. The team, Foliana?”
“They like me. They’re young.”
A Named-rank team in their thirties was ‘young’ to her. Niers just sighed.
“Then you have your mission.”
“Tell me why again.”
She was getting obstinate because she was mad at him. Niers’ answer was simple, if not one that many would understand.
“Because it fits in my plan, Foliana.”
“What if it doesn’t work?”
“Then it’s a statement. A symbol.”
Upon that simple sentence, he asked her to risk her life. She glared at him, thinking, head down, and he added.
“I need you to assess as well. My thinking is that we’re not getting the worst of it. My thinking is that the nastiest monsters are still deep in the center of the Dyed Lands. These? These are the low-tier predators. Bottom of the food chain.”
“Mm. I don’t like that.”
“Join the entire army, Foliana. I’ve got some…ideas. As far as I can tell, every Great Company is struggling. Jungle Tails has our western flank. The bastards seem to be willing not to fight us; they must be having trouble. The Iron Vanguard and Maelstrom’s Howling are containing, but no one’s advancing far.”
Her ears perked up, and her bushy tail covered her chest as she began to finger-comb it.
“Bannermare didn’t get in far?”
“As I understand it, she ran into the Crimson eaters and took some nasty casualties. She didn’t know they grow on the dead.”
“Mm. Stupid.”
“She’s young. Her [Strategists] deserve firing for that one. Actually, I think she’s riding down to have a word with me tonight. Do you want to meet—?”
Foliana had already vanished. Niers rolled his eyes. His commander was a child. But that was fine—he drummed his fingers on the table.
All eyes on me. He wished he had his Selphids. If he did, he’d be happier. But that was the problem, wasn’t it?
If the King of Destruction and all his ‘vast forces’ were teleported to Baleros today, and Niers’ Forgotten Wing company were lined up against him, Flos would be wiped out in a single battle.
He would. Niers hadn’t missed how many vassals of the King of Destruction had failed to show up and decided to guard their lands. Forgotten Wing was no longer the underdog having to fight off his armies.
But they held so much land, so many places to defend, they were so spread out…everything cost money. He couldn’t concentrate his forces like he wanted. He was spread out.
Perorn, one of his best commanders, was in Izril. Even if she was starting something there…Niers sighed.
“One full-board army is all I can spare. It’ll do.”
Not enough forces to be everywhere. Certainly not to go with Geneva and ‘Erin’ or find the real Erin or secure the Calanferians against their trouble. Niers read a report and grunted.
“Iron Vanguard and Jungle Tails on them. Wonderful. That idiot [Knight].”
He hoped they survived. He needed people like ‘Ser Solstice’, or even Seraphel du Marquin. Pieces on a board. They could matter more than entire regiments. He thought in pieces and levels, war and armies. For this coming battle…he had taken several important units and put them together. But also—a useful piece on the board, even if the piece in question would have preferred to be nobody and no one at all.
Well, Niers didn’t pay Balsamic well enough to be a nobody.
 
——
 
The conversation between Niers and Balsam the Drake was cordial, if short. The Drake came into the tent, threw a casual, uncomfortable salute, then brightened up when he saw the platters of food.
“Mind if I eat, sir…?”
“Go ahead, Captain. I’m not going to finish more than half of it myself.”
“Hah. Thanks.”
The Drake began to chomp down on food with a will. He didn’t like Niers, the Titan fully knew. The Fraerling scared Balsam, but the mercenary followed orders. Niers paced around the maps he was eyeing.
“I don’t have long, which I know suits you just fine, Captain. Anything of note to tell me?”
Balsam thought for a long moment as he swallowed liberal portions of spiced marinated meat without even pausing to gulp water. Niers got a bit of pepper seed on his bite and swore a blue streak.
“Er, uh, no, Lord Astoragon. War’s been tough. Jungle Tails fight like hell. Y’know. Sucks.”
“Very descriptive, Balsam. Or is it ‘Balsamic’ now?”
“Don’t remind me, sir. The Lizardfolk are fun. Skeldriv don’t care about the temples. Most don’t even remember the Nagatine Empire or Lightning Thief.”
Niers felt at his greying hairs and grimaced.
“Well, it’s old to them. I heard an Eye of Baleros reached our shores.”
“…Fuck.”
The Drake didn’t like that and hunched his shoulders. Niers waited, but that expletive seemed to sum it all up in Balsam’s opinion. Niers sighed.
Their conversations were mostly like this. He chewed on another piece of meat, then spoke.
“I’m going to give it to you straight, Balsam. I need the Skeldriv to fight this blue wave. Azure beasts. It’s going to be dicey.”
“Can’t, uh—can’t you get another group to do it? What about the Rustängmarder? They’re tough bastards.”
Balsam fidgeted. Niers sighed louder.
“They quit for the King of Destruction.”
“Oh. Damn. Selphids and Rusters?”
The Fraerlings wagged a finger at the Drake, who swallowed more meat uneasily.
“Don’t go losing your nerve, Balsam. We’ve got Fraerlings with us, and that counts. Besides, with the Eyes in play, there’s nowhere safe in Baleros. Fight or die for Forgotten Wing. And where would you go? Izril? Terandria? Chandrar?”
They both had a hearty laugh about that, though Balsam swore.
“Damnit. Fine. I’ll fight hard. Just don’t throw our lives away!”
“I’m not intending to. That’s all. Take the meat with you if you want; I have a Centaur to meet in five. Oh, and can I do anything for you? Give my regards to your commander. Is it still Rexica?”
Balsam packed up the food with a will as he shook his head.
“That’ll be Dutter. Rexica retired. Got some kids now. Grandkids, rather.”
“Huh. Damn, retirement.”
Balsam and Niers both shook their heads at the thought. The Drake did pause at the door once, though, with a thought.
“Er, sir? Do you know, uh, any [Healers] I could find? Ones that could sort of vouch for me being not sick? There’s this rumor going around and—”
Niers blinked, heard out Balsam’s explanation, then smiled.
“Ah, of course. I’ll have Forgotten Wing’s own [Healer] visit you and write up a report. She won’t poke and prod—no, wait. Would the Last Light’s words be better?”
Balsam brightened up, then looked worried.
“The Last Light herself? Sure! But if she’s going to, uh—”
Niers waved a hand and scribbled a note.
“I’ll have someone write it in her name tomorrow and deliver it this week. Just find a moment to go into the city, alright?”
“Sure. Er, thank you, sir. That’ll help a lot with the, uh, the rumors.”
“Think nothing of it. Anything else?”
There was not. Balsam saluted as Niers nodded to him, and the Titan got the distinct impression that the Drake was glad to have gotten all this over with. Niers sighed. After nearly twenty damn years, the Drake was still cagey as could be around him.
Ah, well, you had to respect that.
“Just you wait until I send Erin at you.”
Niers muttered at Balsam, then cursed. All his Skills and talents and he could have really used one interpersonal Skill. Charisma was not his forte.
 
——
 
Then again, neither was it Aria Fellstrider’s. Oh, she was attractive to Centaurs, Niers supposed. She was fit, high-level, and if that wasn’t enough, he was sure her mother had enough money to make Aria the most attractive Centauress in the world if she hadn’t been born looking like that.
She was very, very good at war. The moment she had been born, she’d followed her mother into battlefields, and the Bannermare was incisive, witty, but charismatic?
…Not to him. She came into his camps where his army was assembling, and everyone was all over her, begging for an autograph, standing in awe of Maelstrom’s Howling’s 2nd in command, even if she was a sometimes enemy.
But to Niers, she just vaguely annoyed him.
“Niers! Good of you to show up on the front! Here to prove your company’s better than all the others?”
She meant it as a jest or challenge, tossing her bluish-silver hair in an arc. Niers blandly stuck out a hand as she halted in front of the pedestal he used to meet visitors face-to-face.
“That’s the plan, Aria. How’s Gwelin doing? Perorn says Izril is lovely for galloping about, especially the Great Plains. ‘As good as home’, she said.”
Aria’s confidence visibly faltered as she held out a finger for him to shake. She stamped a hoof.
“I’ll pass it on. Mother complains about her hooves and back all the time. Both backs.”
“You should hear Foliana complain about her fur. I heard you ran into some nastiness. Crimson eaters not a fun foe?”
She scowled harder.
“We managed! Don’t go giving me lectures, Niers. I’m not the filly you remember.”
He remembered when she was a shy little Centauress hiding behind her mother. All the dazzling charm of her aura hit Niers’…and bounced off. Without it, Aria just looked, well, young and jostling to impress, teasing and poking, like most kids her age.
“I wouldn’t dream of insulting Maelstrom’s Howling’s greatest frontline commander. Frankly, I only wish Tulm were here; the Iron Vanguard looks a bit too timid to engage properly on their front.”
“Hah! They are that, but it’s not easy. You’re up against blue. Your people did well against Stygian black or whatever they’re called, but blue has torn up all four Great Companies.”
“You mean three.”
“Do I? Oh, well, Jungle Tails is practically a Great Company again. Or else you wouldn’t struggle against them, right?”
An innocent expression as she tossed her hair again. Niers just sighed. Amazing how she was the same age as other people and just not as mature at times. Erin…no, she’d been that silly sometimes, he supposed, but Aria?
“I’ll do my best. What’s the issue? Speed?”
She scowled harder.
“Don’t joke. Some of them are almost as fast as me. It’s hard to fight them without taking casualties, and they want to race off and attack any settlements around. The only thing worse than them is green because of the infestation thing, or maybe red if they eat. And white because they’re invisible, and yellow’s blinding…”
They were all bad. Niers glanced at his notes.
“I’ll get more experience now that I’m here. It’s one thing to hear, another to see. I had a few thoughts, though. Tell me, have you considered using light spells against them? Especially white or black—it might illuminate them or something?”
She laughed at him, triumphantly, as the Centaurs around her grinned.
“Too slow, Titan! We’ve been doing that for ages. Yes, if you want to, you can bait them into attacking. Red will go for other colors—or avoid them if they feel weak—nice to see you’re as good as Maelstrom’s Howling’s top [Strategists].”
He smiled mildly as a few of the officers around him bristled. Good thing Venaz wasn’t here or he’d probably cause a stink.
“Ah, well, I did think it was a basic thought, but Lizvek wasn’t doing it. Surely, I’ll come up with a better strategy in time!”
His genial attitude towards her seemed to annoy Aria more than if he’d been insulting her right back. She hesitated, then danced closer on her hooves.
“Is, uh, Ryoka with you, or that Erin Solstice? I wanted to meet with them.”
“Sadly, they’ve gone east. If they have time, I’m sure they’d be delighted to meet with you.”
Discontented, she glanced around at his forces.
“Are you mustering a new army, then? I saw Perfectionist Lizvek was leaving. What’re you bringing?”
“Just a few groups. A full-board army.”
“A…I’ve heard that term. What is that?”
Niers shrugged as he saw several owls flying in overhead. A few of the Centaurs around Aria glanced up, but none of them seemed to realize it was more Fraerlings arriving via stealth. He didn’t feel like having Aria gush over Fraerlings all day, so he declined to mention them.
“Oh, that’s just an internal term we use. It’s when I decide to take disparate groups and form up an army that can counter most contingencies. Full-board? As in a chess board.”
She groaned and rolled her eyes, stamping her foot impatiently. Aria was no good chess player.
“Argh. You and your chess-things. And just putting armies together like that! They’re not going to fight together like a proper force who has experience!”
“My troops are used to adapting. But, then, I’m sure if I do have any flaws, it’ll appear in my performance against the Dyed Lands monsters, Aria. Can I offer you any refreshments? I’d drink, but I have to take command tomorrow. If you’d care to stay, my students would love to meet you…”
She was glancing around moodily.
“No. I just wanted to meet Ryoka or the Fraerlings.”
“Ah, well, I’m sorry to disappoint you. Foliana might be around if you—”
Aria jumped and trotted around in a circle.
“What? No! No! I don’t need her sneaking up on me again. I’ll just ride back; it’s not far.”
Visibly annoyed she hadn’t gotten under his skin, she trotted backwards, and Niers rolled his eyes. You beat a Centaur once in battle and they held it against you for the rest of their lives. In truth, he felt like he was the ‘big, bad, scary [Strategist]’ to Aria. She’d watched her own mother lose more than one battle to him when he was rising.
“Chip on her shoulder the size of Wistram. Though she’s not as stupid or spoiled as you might think.”
He commented casually to the air, and someone jumped.
Patrol Captain Shoike appeared with Iuncuta Eirnos and the other commanders of the Tallguard, seeming rather embarrassed. The invisible Fraerlings from Itelloi eyed Niers.
“Did you have a ring that detected us, Titan?”
Shoike asked, and he snorted.
“No. I just guessed you were there when I saw the rest of the Tallguard arriving.”
Plus, my pedestal moves slightly if more weight is put on it than just myself. He trusted them, of course; it would be a terrible thing to have an enemy Fraerling city with all their technology and resources. He hoped the one that Jungle Tails had captured wasn’t being suborned. Even Eirnos hadn’t found it yet, though Fraerlings were looking.
Eirnos murmured as she fixed Aria with her one good eye.
“She seems far more childish than I was led to believe for one of Baleros’ greatest commanders.”
“Just around me. She can be an adult. But I do like to tease her.”
Sure enough, Aria was glancing over her shoulder, and Niers couldn’t help it. He addressed the hugest figure on the pedestal with a laugh, raising his voice.
“Rozcal! How are you liking the front? Fancy fighting any of the monsters with your Crelerbane Armor?”
Commander Rozcal laughed.
“They’re a bit big, and there’s a lot of them, but I’d try taking down one of them wolf-things solo! Just say the word, Niers!”
Even among the other Fraerlings, they thought he was crazy, but the huge, bluff Fraerling with his bright orange beard and impressive physique could probably do it, given his level. Niers saw Aria focus on the tiny figures as she heard their loud voices, then she screamed.
“Niers, you liar!”
She came stampeding back, and Niers saluted Eirnos.
“I have to run. I have your forces in reserve, Iuncuta. Aria, go to bed. You’re way past your bedtime.”
“You—you—you—”
He strolled off with a laugh as the Fraerlings blinked at him, and he reduced Baleros’ most eligible Centauress into a spluttering, finger-pointing ball of outrage.
Then he sat moodily in his war tent for a while. He drank no wine, but muttered.
“You brat. Speak to me like someone who understands this is war, or like a child. Don’t do both.”
Then he shook his head, and shrugged. He’d take it out on her forces next time she thought she could win a battle against him. Sometimes friends, sometimes enemies. He lay down to sleep.
When he woke up, it was time for war.
 
——
 
Venaz, Marian, Umina, Cameral, Jekilt, Kissilt, Merrik, and Peki all were present to see the Titan of Baleros’ first engagement with the Azure Beasts. Even some officers that they didn’t know so well, like Kaelma, Kelsa, and Romin, were definitely watching from wherever they’d been stationed.
Not that all the students were actually on the field, of course. They were split up amongst different commands. Cameral had been serving under Strategist Lizvek, whom he described as ‘challenging’, which was as good as saying the Stitch-man was a nightmare, and Kissilt and Jekilt had been actually trusted with their own armies.
“Just hunting down monsters that break through. It’s a nightmare. They’re all poisonous. I got a whiff of one of them before we were all issued masks, and I was vomiting for five hours straight. But I am glad you’re here. We’ll see if two of the famous ‘Strategists at Sea’ and their magic Relic-swords can turn the tides. Shame Feshi had to stay in Izril.”
Kissilt was always grating, but he actually clasped hands with everyone. Jekilt was far more casual, having seen battle before becoming a student.
“It’s intense, just like Kissilt says. Don’t mind his tongue. He kept moaning about how he wished you were here, Umina. We’ve had to adapt strategies a lot to deal with the colors.”
Kissilt turned bright red and began roaring objections, but then Venaz spoke.
“Where are you all being stationed? I’m with the Professor in his army. He has me with the ‘Shoreaxes’. I don’t know them personally, but they’re definitely good. Merrik?”
“I’m garrisoning the base camp.”
The Dwarf was all gloom. Apparently given the speed of the foe and his own relative weakness there, he had to run defense against attacks. He pointed accusatorially at Peki.
“Peki, on the other hand, is in the flying wings for Niers’ army!”
Kissilt and Jekilt whistled.
“Wait, Cameral’s been given logistics duty—that means you two are seeing the Titan’s combat? That’s the thick of things! Umina, Marian?”
“We’re assigned eastwards of here, or will be. Marian’s actually with some of the riders. Uh, under a Commander Jirem? But she’s not in charge.”
Jekilt nodded.
“I know Jirem. He’s an amazing commander in his own right. Centaurs. The Professor must trust you all.”
Cameral and Kissilt instinctively glanced towards Venaz. Here would be where the Minotaur blustered that it was only what they deserved or some such, and how well they’d do. Instead, Venaz just touched the hilt of his greatsword.
“That or he’s entrusting us to places we can do little harm. I doubt we’re ready. I’m going to meet the Shoreaxes and defer to their commander as to where I use my Skills. I’m sure you three have enough experience to lead independently, but we’re still too green.”
What a statement. Kissilt’s jaw actually fell open, but Venaz looked like he meant it. Even Peki nodded.
“Big fighting. Flight Leader told me to just follow her, so I will.”
Venaz the Prideful wasn’t sure he was going to do well? His journeys at sea and battles in Izril might have actually tempered the Minotaur. When the others asked about Wil and Yerra, Marian just shrugged.
“They’re on escort-duty for Erin Solstice herself. They seemed worried. Anti-assassin duty, probably. I hope we all pull our weight. For our part, I’m just glad we have actual troops. Remember Talenqual?”
Cameral shuddered, and Kissilt nodded.
“Monsters are easier—well, sort of. How do you think the Professor is going to do? Everyone’s watching, you know. He has to do well, or…but the blues are the hardest, I’ve heard. They’re just too fast.”
Jekilt showed them scratches on his flanks.
“Bites from the blue wolves. Your trenches or palisades or static defenses barely matter. You won’t have time to loose arrows—they’re just on you in seconds.”
Bad news if you specialized in hit-and-run like Marian. Merrik seemed the least-concerned as he grunted.
“Heavy armor is what I’d do.”
“You say that—but some of the big blues can smash someone in plate armor.”
“Well, I saw some War Walkers back there. The Titan’s pulling out all the stops. Weird War Walkers, though…”
Cameral’s head rose as Umina jerked a finger over her shoulder. He blinked.
“Forgotten Wing doesn’t have many War Walkers. General Diomedes has three of the largest, but the rest are…oh. Oh. He’s brought the Armortraitors. But they’ll be ineffective against blue. Maybe he’s going to rotate them after…?”
They didn’t know what to expect, but nerves were high. Not only for themselves but for Niers. There was a sense that everyone had great expectations of the Titan. If he couldn’t prove he was better at, well, strategy, then what?
“Funny. I never thought I’d be worried about the Professor.”
Umina commented to them as they ate over breakfast. In the distance, she saw the odd army that Niers had put together making for the pass that Strategist Lizvek had pulled his troops out of. Marian trotted after Umina to a place they could watch from.
“Me neither. But how do you deal with pure speed? Barrier spells and just hammer them? Maybe narrow the pass so they’re choked off?”
They watched as the shreds of Stygian black tore away from the whirling clouds of the Dyed Lands, and then…blue swept forwards like a rushing storm, and they heard curious, high-pitched bark-howls, then a din unlike the Stygian horde, who attacked in silence. They burst forward in a flood, and the two [Strategists] watched as the Titan led his defense.
Frugally.
 
——
 
Spells cost too much money. Bolts cost too much money, for that matter. If he could, he’d prefer not to waste magic. Oh, sure, he could just plop down the highest-grade barrier possible and shred the enemy, but Niers really didn’t want to do that.
High-level [Mages] or scrolls were limited commodities. Also? That wasn’t good strategy.
He was aware scrying spells were watching his first engagement leading his army. And he intended to send a message. One of frugality. A reminder of what Forgotten Wing was.
Before the battle, he had already done enough work summoning his commanders, outlining his preferred plan of engagement, and making sure they all knew what to do and where to move. He had a curious formation, his audience realized.
A full wing of Centaur riders led by Commander Jirem were armed in the traditional light lances and blades their kind wore. Niers had them held back from the pass and surrounding battleground he had to defend. Behind his vanguard, which were not the Shoreaxes.
No, instead, the full vanguard who held this ground, whooping and cheering and waving at the sky, were the Lizardfolk.
Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk appeared awfully small compared to the other species, even to the Fraerlings. And Niers had other groups! A bunch of Dullahans in curious armor, even a pair of War Walkers with unique armaments—he had more species in his forces than Iuncuta Eirnos had ever seen, but she questioned his formations. So did some of the other Fraerlings with her.
“I don’t see the same formations I’m expecting from that first [Strategist]. He cleared the ground and laid countless traps and barriers, but the Titan is fighting on open ground! How confident is he?”
That came from Patrol Captain Shoike. She was restless. She had been sent by her city to support the Titan and avenge the Fraerling cities attacked by Tallfolk, but she was no military woman.
None of the Fraerlings were, except maybe Eirnos. Fraerlings didn’t war, at least not like this. The numbers the Forgotten Wing fielded and the amount of monsters?
Every Tallguard in our region couldn’t hold this group back, but then, we’d never try. Shoike was worried that the Titan would need them. He’d put the Fraerlings in the rear as well, clearly in case he needed them, but that meant most of his forces were in reserve.
What was going on? Eirnos answered in a clipped tone as she played with her eyepatch.
“My briefings with his commanders indicated that these Azure Beasts don’t go for concentrations of strength. They try to move around any forces present, unlike the other colors. The Titan has to intercept them. Plus, given their speed, fortifications are weaker.”
In short, he had to engage them in a melee. Small wonder even the Great Companies didn’t like this color. Eirnos pursed her lips.
“With that said, I offered our Tallguard as advance forces. We could have flown ahead and showered the enemy with Vortex Bolts, but he declined that suggestion. We have Tallguard ready to drop, and we are to hold until his orders.”
Shoike’s heart sank. ‘Tallguard ready to drop’ meant they were prepared to fall off circling birds and use their Signim. They could kill scores of people around them or snipe officers—but Tallguard almost always died as a result.
Not a good use of them. She hoped it didn’t come to that, but it was odd. The Fraerlings were Niers’ best unit, bar none. Oh, they might be small, but they had the most magic, the most levels, Shoike was sure.
The only person not concerned amongst the leadership was actually Commander Rozcal. He was chewing on a huge french fry for a snack, devouring the giant potato that was taller than he was with evident satisfaction. Everyone glared at him until Eirnos turned.
“Commander, you actually fought alongside Niers Astoragon before the cities largely cut contact with his company, didn’t you? What can you say about his strategy?”
Rozcal wiped at his mouth.
“What can I say? I’m no great mind for this kind of thing. We’re just Crelerbane Armor. We see something with too many legs, and we decide to lop some off.”
He laughed hugely, wearing his Adamantium armor. Shoike sighed, but Rozcal nodded at the tiny figure sitting on his podium, in view of all to see.
“Niers? He always has a plan. I went up to him before he got set up, and he just told me that if we needed to go into battle, that meant all his plans were failing.”
Fair enough. The Fraerlings didn’t really relax, but Shoike glanced at Rozcal.
“And did he say what his plan was?”
Rozcal tugged on his beard.
“Hmmm. Yes. Frugality.”
“Frugality?”
“And that he really doubted it’d be an interesting first battle. It’s more showing off, he claimed. After all, he says he has so many ‘tricks’ with this army he doubts that they’ll get past his first lines.”
The bluff commander laughed as the Fraerlings eyed him. But then they heard warning horns, and the first blue wave burst out of the clouds. Blue was coming. Then they saw Niers raise a hand, and the Titan of Baleros put on a show his enemies knew quite well.
 
——
 
Balsam and Vinegar company were near the front when the Azure Beasts came out of the mists, and he didn’t like it one bit. He’d promised to fight hard, but Niers had sworn not to get his regiment chewed up!
Still, Balsam pretended this was all fine as the Lizardfolk gasped. Blue wolves raced over the ground, then stopped, and bigger monsters followed.
“Aw, hells. That one looks tough, Captain. What is that?”
A Lizardman groaned as he pointed to a huge, armored…what? Balsam squinted.
“Looks like a combination between a rhino and hippo. Only, the horns are spaced horizontally instead of vertically. Longer too. Don’t let it hit you straight on or we’ll be pouring you into the grave along with our drinks.”
“What the heck’s a rhino, Captain Balsamic? Or a hippo?”
“Chandrarian. Saw them in a menagerie, once.”
“Weird.”
Laughter, nervous, and groans as the huge beast ran way faster than it should into position. They were lining up like a cavalry charge. Balsam gritted his teeth. He could see them blurring along, defying normal physics.
Like Galas-muscle or they’ve got a [Speed] spell on them. Damn, damn, damn.
He wished Eyevil were here, or Plaxima. Both were good at their respective roles, as Nagas were, and they had been a lot more admiring of him once he showed them that clean bill of health Niers had gotten him.
But no, they were further back. Balsam heard a shout from behind him.
“Enemy preparing to charge! Don’t bother with spearwall formations! [Slingers], forwards!”
Slingers? Was the Titan insane? But there they came.
Slings. Lizardfolk loved slings. Find a rock and chuck it and you had unlimited ammunition. One could bust a head open easily, and en-masse…they’d humbled every force in the world with the power of a rock thrown hard enough.
But slings did have weaknesses. You couldn’t swing one around in tight formations, and they didn’t go as far as bows or crossbows or punch that hard.
Against the Azure Beasts, who did seem tough enough? How much damage would a rock do? And, more importantly, how were they supposed to hit them?
The damn monsters could dodge [Lightning Bolts]! But the Lizardfolk ran forwards, whooping, whirling their slings as the wave of blue massed and prepared to charge. The Titan gave the order as a surge of blue began to streak across the ground recently scorched free of Stygian venom, fast, fast—
They weren’t going to get more than one volley off! Balsam gritted his teeth.
“Get ready! Get ready! Don’t bunch up or the slings can’t get back!”
A voice from behind him.
“Now! Slingers!”
The Lizardfolk cracked the air with their slings, hurling the rocks ahead, and then ran back behind their friends, screaming and whooping. The Azure Beasts dodged in a blur the moment the slings cracked, almost contemptuously. As if they could even predict the projectiles’ trajectories. They leapt, a crashing wave racing over the ground, and then—
One of the wolves’ heads exploded.
Balsam saw it happen very clearly. The blue-wolf’s blood and brains exploded in a shower as it collapsed, and across the line of blue, more monsters stumbled. Fell. Not all as dramatically as the first, but—
“What was that? Did the Titan make the rocks explode like the Archmage of Centaurs?”
Questions arose as the Lizardfolk gasped and cheered. Balsam squinted. His eyes narrowed, and he focused…he saw clearly and then muttered.
“No. He stopped the stones.”
Balsam could see in the distance, as the blue monsters drew back a second in confusion, what was going on. Hovering in the air, frozen in place, the rocks that the Lizardfolk had hurled were just…stuck in the air.
Like they were under [Stasis]. Not floating, not anti-gravity or anything else, just fixed there. Hard as rocks.
What happened if you hit a rock that wouldn’t move while travelling at the speed of the Azure Beasts? Well, that. More than one of the Azure Beasts was howling, bones or their weird shells broken. Balsam began to breathe as a voice called.
“Bows, prepare to volley! Wait, wait—”
The Azure Beasts were coming in for a second charge, and this time, they were going to reach the Lizardfolk lines. Balsam bared his teeth. Come on—come on, Titan—
 
——
 
Niers was almost disappointed that had worked. He spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Azure Beasts aren’t processing at the speed they’re moving. My guess is when they blur, they’re moving faster than they can think or react. Or else they would have realized the stones were there. See? They’re coming slower past the rocks. Now they speed up—”
He watched them regaining momentum, coming in for a charge. Now, Niers had the Dullahans and Centaurs in the back ranks aiming volleys at the beasts who were about to hit Balsam’s front.
He lifted a hand, glancing at his [Strategists]. He’d called for good ones to join him in this offensive. Niers had a lot of Skills himself, but variety meant any army got infinitely more powerful. Like the one he’d asked for for this battle. [Stop Projectile]. He’d used this particular trick on Aria Fellstrider’s mother. And here was another from Jungle Tails’ own bag of tricks.
“—Now. Medusae!”
As the Azure Beasts entered optimal range, Eyevil and five more of her compatriots slithered upright. They opened their eyes, their snake-hair rising, and they did what Medusae were famous for: their petrifying, freezing, slowing glare.
Of course, it was only six of them. Not nearly enough to freeze any large force. You needed hundreds, and only Jungle Tails had that many. The terror of Medusae en-masse…what did you do if you lacked them?
Niers watched as Eyevil projected her magical glower into the object sitting in front of her. It looked like a giant…round…pane of glass. It was mounted on a wooden platform with wheels, and if you gazed up at it from the other side, it magnified Eyevil’s face. Her eyes.
The giant, rolling magnifying glass projected a cone across the field as the other five Medusae used their respective platforms to criss-cross the field. They didn’t manage to slow the surprised Azure Beasts fully; maybe only to 3/4ths of their speed? But the shock was enough.
“Loose. [Archers: Triplicate Volley].”
Niers’ hand swung down, and then the air was filled with arrows. They fell amongst the Azure Beasts who ran into the oncoming fire. Even then, the damn things dodged and juked, but they were still slowed enough, momentum lost.
“It really is like fighting Aria minus the music. Skeldriv! [Countercharge]!”
Niers yelled, and he saw Balsam launch forwards almost before he’d shouted it. The Drake knew the business of war, and so did the Lizardfolk. They rushed the Azure Beasts with a roar, and Niers watched the Medusae sag backwards onto their platforms, tired.
He eyed the swirling blue mass ahead of him and saw a flicker of movement ahead. Some of the scrying spells he had trained on the cloud indicated more bodies amassing.
“I wonder how there are so many. Are they all trying to get out of the Dyed Lands? And why? They’re pulling back for another assault. This color retreats and advances like, well, the ocean. [Mages], prepare some [Light] spells for me. I want to test a few more things.”
 
——
 
Ah, now that was the displeasurable feeling Niers’ foes knew well. In two moves, he had beaten back the first waves of blue like it was nothing. Not bloodlessly; they could see him leaving some of his Lizardfolk on the battlefield, but they’d forced the Azure Beasts into retreat with amazing ease.
Of course, part of that was because of the tools the Medusae had used.
“The Glasses of Amplification! He stole those from our temples!”
Half the Lizardfolk in Jungle Tails’ secret headquarters were outraged. But the Dragontouched, head of their military affairs, just sat, monitoring the battle.
Surely all nations who prided themselves on their prowess in war were watching the Titan. If only to learn. One hated to admit it, but he defined this era’s warfare. The Dragontouched was a student of Niers Astoragon, as was at least one of his Dragonfire Generals.
Speaking of which…the Dragontouched eyed another battle shaping up in the forests, but the Wyrmgraced had taken command of that affair with Calanfer. He commented as the noisy Nagas went silent at his voice.
“He has stolen techniques and forces from every species. Look. The Azure Beasts are coming in force.”
More blue monsters, big ones now. It seemed they combined speed with size, because a massive, four-legged monster with a snub head and a lot of teeth was roaring out of the clouds. This time, though, the Titan wasn’t going to let them amass without trouble. The scrying orb shifted viewpoints, and here came the fliers.
 
——
 
Peki didn’t realize that the Azure Beasts had fliers until Niers had given the order.
“Garuda Wings, escort Skyfire in. Give me a flame wall straight through the center of that mass. I want them cooking.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon. Garuda, to the air!”
Feathered figures leapt into the air, more than Peki had known there were in Baleros! Nearly a hundred were flying, and she followed her Wing Leader, who was in ‘Beta’ group. Peki flew swiftly through the skies, inhaling an odd scent as she drew closer to the cloud.
Smells like…blueberries? Or the idea of blue itself. She shook herself, balling a fist, and heard voices.
“Wing Leader Alpha, flying ahead.”
“Wing Leader Beta, we are clearing the way.”
“Wing Leader Gamma, on escort.”
The Garuda were in three groups, and two broke ahead, covering a fourth, even smaller group of fliers. Peki turned her head and blinked.
“Flying Kissilts?”
No. Oldblood Drakes. They were soaring in a V-formation, some not even flapping their wings hard. Their mouths were burning with their famed Dragonbreath; barely twenty total.
The Titan wanted them to burn the amassing Azure Beasts, but the color of blue saw them coming and deployed a counter.
Fliers. Winged, glittering birds burst out of the air, diving and then rising in ponderous arcs. They, like the other creatures, had a glittering ‘shell’ that clearly weighed them down, but they dove like lightning.
Alpha Wing recoiled when the monsters reached them, moving up and backwards, baiting out the first attack. It was like a wave of glittering monsters broke over them, crashing down, but the dive-bomb attacks were too short; Garudas flew backwards, bright feathered colors retreating from the superior numbers of the Azure Fliers.
Instantly, the Garudas called out. Peki had been issued a speaking stone, and she heard voices talking in her earholes.
“Fliers incoming. They rise slow. Aim for when they do so.”
“Lord Astoragon, I count two hundred and climbing.”
“Two Skills on your forces, Wing Commander. Hit them hard. Fall back if they bring in heavies.”
His voice was steady, and Peki glanced back and saw the Drakes were falling behind. They were…slow in the air, she noticed. They advanced in a clump, with Gamma Wing circling around them. They were still fast enough; the Drakes would be over the Azure Beast mass in maybe five minutes.
Five minutes was a long time to fight in the air.
The Azure Beasts didn’t realize the Drakes were the threat. They went for the Garuda. Peki saw the Alpha wing engage first.
“Alpha wing. Move to attack speed. Prepare to net…now. Break!”
The Garuda turned and hurled nets as the Azure Beasts dove at them. Peki saw the lightweight nets covered with stones hitting the beasts. The fliers tangled in them tried to fly and fell.
“Alpha 2. Nets effective.”
“Beta wing, nets!”
Then it was Peki’s group who swung towards the confused beasts. Peki hurled her net clumsily, cursing as an Azure Hawk dove with folded wings. It came at her from above, so she twisted in the air, rolling right as it flashed past her, claws missing her by inches. Peki cursed.
“Damn. Fast.”
“Don’t mouth off unnecessarily, Beta 4! Alpha wing—engage!”
The Garuda behind Peki’s squad streaked past her as she flapped backwards, baiting the Azure Beasts. Once more, they streamed downwards, then flapped to try and rise above the Garuda who fell on them from above. They had no sense of tactics in the air! Garudas dove with light blades or even axes, aiming for a single target as their enemies tried to rise.
Wings. A vermillion-colored Garuda dove and hacked once at an Azure Hawk’s wings, then rose. The damaged wing failed to keep the bird up, and it shrieked in a low, ringing voice as it tried to rise.
Aerial combat tactics. Alpha Wing was scattering the Azure Fliers right and left, forcing them to dive down further, anything to evade the attacks from their weakest spot: above. Even so, it wasn’t bloodless. She heard voices, terse, controlled.
“Alpha 10, I’m bit! Beaks like razors!”
“Fall back, Alpha 10! Alpha 2, they’re on you—”
“[Evasive Dive]! I’m out of it—”
The Garuda with flight-goggles ahead of Peki was pointing, and Peki followed Beta Wing’s leader as they flew above the skirmish in the air. Alpha Wing was disengaging; the Azure Fliers were pursuing them, and now Beta Wing dove, launching another attack on the distracted foes. Beta Wing’s leader shouted.
“We’re diving! Lord Astoragon!”
“[Speed Raid]. Hit them.”
She was so focused in the moment that Peki nearly forgot she had Skills as well! She cried out as they dropped, suddenly accelerating faster, faster—an Azure Hawk was right below her, wings flapping as it tried to rise, completely ignorant of the new threat dropping on it.
“[Unit: Thunder Punch]!”
She hit the first flying bird so hard it exploded. Or she thought it did; the bird dropped, and Peki saw she’d blown its armor off all of its body.
“Beta 4, nice punch! Don’t let them rise!”
Alpha Wing turned, abandoning the feigned retreat. Now, both wings were flying about in the air, dogfighting with the monsters in close-quarters. Peki launched an [Anvil Kick] down at a bird, [Close Countered] another. She was doing it! They weren’t that dangerous—but then she heard a voice in her ear.
“Alpha wing, Beta wing, break! Break!”
But they were winning! Peki peered up—then realized more of the Azure Hawks were coming. And bigger fliers. A second blue wave broke over them, and this time, the Garuda weren’t in an advantageous position.
The young [Lieutenant] swivelled with the Garuda and flew back as a second wave came in, and now—
“What is that thing? It looks like some kind of fish!”
A manta-like flier was undulating through the air—only, it was long, and little, tiny children detached from its body. Peki shouted.
“Get away! It’s swarming—”
A scream as a Garuda too close to the manta-thing was covered. The Garuda scattered in the air, trying to avoid dozens of mini-Mantas that swarmed around like angry flies. Peki tried to dive after the falling Garuda, but she was too far. She watched the body dropping as Niers spoke.
“[Mages], [Featherfall] that Garuda!”
Did the body slow before it hit the ground? Peki didn’t know. She was too busy gaining altitude. Alpha Wing’s leader, their commander, was speaking tersely.
“They’re bringing in heavies just like us, Lord Astoragon. I’m taking out that carrier. Beta-wing, cover me.”
“On it, Alpha wing.”
This time, Alpha Wing met the Azure Fliers straight in the air, drawing back and fighting and drawing back—unable to engage while the mantas kept trying to swarm them. Peki heard Beta Wing’s leader rasping urgently.
“[Fast Wings]. We need to get them off Alpha Wing. Don’t let them dive!”
Her squad managed to get above the Azure Beasts, another flanking maneuver. Once more, they braced, then came the order.
“Beta wing, down, down, down! Get them off Alpha Wing’s backs!”
Here, the first hawk Peki met dodged her punch, and when she tried to flap into a flying kick, it raked across her skin, drawing blood with razor-sharp feathers. She gritted her teeth, chopped through a wing, and watched her enemy spiral down.
Then a scream.
“Aaa—”
A crunch, and something dropped past them. Something big. Peki saw a huge claw and slanted, staring eyes. A bigger bird than she’d ever seen, except for Tiqr’s annual Roc migration. Frantic voices in her ear as the huge bird’s wings snapped open, and it began to rise, beaks snapping. It had two beaks? Stained with red blood.
“Squad Leader?”
“Beta Wing’s leader is down! What is that?”
“It was in the clouds! Dodge, dodge! Another coming in—”
A second gargantuan bird dropped, and now, the Azure Beasts were attacking. With the huge birds scattering the Garuda, they were no longer fighting together. And when they scattered, the smaller hawks attacked, trying to pick them off.
Alpha Wing’s leader was terse.
“The Manta Flier is still spitting those tiny bastards. It has to die or we’ll be swarmed. Beta Wing, keep those two giants off us!”
“We’re trying, but it’s got too much armor! My blades barely do any damage!”
Two Garuda were flitting around a giant, vaguely chicken-shaped bird flapping upwards. They were stabbing, but the armor was too thick. Peki glanced around. Beta Wing’s leader was dead or unconscious.
Then—
“Beta wing, up, up! Fly with me! We have to drop them!”
“Beta 4, we don’t have your Skills! It won’t work!”
She cried out, and voices dissented. She soared higher as her squad hesitated, and she realized she had to explain. Peki spoke breathlessly.
“Doesn’t matter. They’re so big. Drop on them and—they fall!”
“She’s right. Beta 4, we’re with you. Up! [Sudden Updraft]!”
More Garuda realized what she was thinking of and rose with Peki. They circled higher on the warm thermals, and Peki saw the two vicious, giant Chicken Fliers pecking and tearing at Alpha wing below her. She turned, pointing with her wing-hand.
“Four on that one, four on this one. Drop!”
She didn’t have her [Axe Kick], but she performed one anyways. Eight Garuda dropped with her. Peki hit the first giant bird before it could peck Alpha Wing’s leader and saw it reel. But then it focused two orange eyes on her—it would have turned, but four Garuda grabbed one wing and four the other.
They dove, and the giant flier shrieked, tried to flap its wings, and realized they were holding its limbs. And the Garuda might be lighter, but they had all the momentum.
They were taking the giant down in a suicidal dive. Now the Chicken Flier was panicking. It snapped, tried to bite, and broke free at last as the Garuda let go. It twisted, flapping its wings op—
Crunch.
The bird’s neck snapped as it hit the ground head-first. The Garuda flapped up as the second giant bird landed on its front and broke both its legs. Peki heard cheers from below, but she was climbing again. Alpha Leader spoke breathlessly.
“Good job, Beta 4! Take command of Beta Wing and join Gamma Wing. Lord Astoragon, fires coming down. Enjoy the show.”
Then Peki peered up and remembered what the brief, intense battle in the air was all for. She saw the first Oldblood Drakes flying slower above the Azure Beasts open their mouths, and glowing fire poured downwards.
 
——
 
“Huh. Not bad.”
Balsam shaded his eyes as he saw twenty Oldblood Drakes perform their iconic attack on the Azure forces. The beasts scattered, but they ran into more waves of burning heat or were hit by bolts of lightning that curved, seeking them out. Their fliers were falling and dying as Niers called his back.
Garuda and Drakes flying in the same skies. Balsam knew that Drakes were often mocked for their flying abilities since most didn’t live in the air like Garuda. So that was how you used them; Garuda sheltering the slower but magical Drakes.
Then he heard a voice.
“That big beast. I want it dead. War Walkers. [Precise Shots]. You’ll have your moment.”
Balsam turned and grunted as the earth trembled. He saw two unique War Walkers stride forwards and unsling the biggest damn crossbows he’d ever seen in his life.
 
——
 
“Armortraitors.”
Tulm the Mithril was watching the battle despite not even being on Baleros’ shores. He glared at the two War Walkers. Most were loyal to their people, but some were mercenaries.
A few joined Forgotten Wing despite the standing orders not to. But these were unique even among War Walkers.
After all—they carried giant crossbows custom-built for one purpose: killing other War Walkers. Given the rarity and difficulty of making more War Walkers, such destructive, murderous weapons were all but banned. War Walkers spared each other’s lives when at all possible.
Not Niers’ murderers. They sighted down the crossbows as the Azure Beasts came in for a second charge.
“TULM. HOW IS THE TITAN DOING?”
The Seer of Steel was part of this conference call analyzing the Titan’s performance. Tulm glanced over his shoulder; he had work to do, and his lips curled as he straightened.
“With respect, Seer of Steel, there is little point in observing the battle. He will use cloud spells next. He’s having…fun.”
 
——
 
“Skeldriv, fall back. Fullhelms, forwards.”
Ah, now they saw it. That grinning madman. That performer on his stage. This is why they hated the Titan when he came at them with a real army.
A [Magician] with a hat full of tricks. The monsters of the blue surging towards him had no idea how many abilities his army had. They charged, ready for stone traps, for slowing spells, perhaps.
But not for Niers to turn off vision.
The clouds blotted out all sight and vision and swept over the entire field as Lizardfolk ran back, setting themselves. A choking, hazardous haze that made the advancing monsters freeze, unsure where to go, what was ahead of them. They had to slow, running into each other, and snarled.
The first Azure Wolf nosed forwards, sniffing until it ran into something hard. Hard and immobile. It thought it was a wall and tried to get around until the Dullahan, helmet glowing with enchanted glass lenses, swung a sword down and pierced the wolf’s back.
Fullhelm Armor. To Drakes, they probably looked like Salazsar’s Rubirel Guard. They were Dullahans wearing armor that was thick and constricting, even by their standards.
Full helms, sealed, without anywhere to let air in or out. Enchanted so you could see even in a cloud spell. They marched into the fog and began to attack their blinded foes.
“Keep clear of the clouds!”
The orders were being barked up and down the lines as Niers watched. He was sure Aria Fellstrider’s tacticians were kicking themselves for not figuring out some tactics, but how many specialists like this did Maelstrom’s Howling have?
Not many; Centaurs couldn’t pull this trick.
“Fullhelm Armor to Lord Astoragon. The foe is weakening rapidly under assault. Marking behemoth target.”
“My compliments, commander. War Walkers, fire.”
Two thunderous discharges and a howl; the War Walkers fired into the clouds, and the beast screamed.
“Partial hits, Lord Astoragon.”
“Do you need another hit, commander?”
“No, Lord Astoragon. Beast is dying. Cloud kill.”
At first, the observers didn’t quite get it. They saw Azure Beasts emerging from the clouds, wounded from their battle with the heavily-armored Dullahans who could fight in the blinding smog. But then they realized the Azure Beasts were smoking, not that wisps of the clouds were clinging to them. It ran off their bodies as they rolled, howled, and open wounds seemed to grow…
They collapsed, and the clouds parted to reveal scores of dead Azure Beasts, some not even bearing wounds from the melee. Niers was nodding when his speaking stone chirped.
“Lord Astoragon—what kind of cloud spells are those?”
Iuncuta Eirnos had caught on first. He replied calmly.
“[Acid Cloud].”
Shock, then outrage as watching companies and the newspeople, those paragons of morality, caught wind. Eirnos barked back.
“Lord Astoragon, that is considered a war crime in battle—”
“Not against monsters. It’s minimally effective anyways. Fullhelms, fall back. We’ll try for simple [Ash Cloud] or [Dust Storm] spells next time, commander. That’s cheaper anyways.”
“Of course, Lord Astoragon.”
Niers Astoragon stood there, waiting for another wave of the beasts to form up. After a moment, he sighed, kicked at his pedestal, and then cast around. Ostentatiously, he peered up at the sky, where he knew the scrying spells were, and shrugged.
Just for the cameras. He held his palms out, as disappointed as he felt.
That’s it?
 
——
 
Of course, Niers knew not every army could hope to replicate his tactics. Having the Fullhelms or as many fliers as he’d brought was impossible for others, but that was the purpose of this army.
A testing ground to figure out a foe’s weaknesses and capitalize on them, and as far as he was concerned, the Azure Beasts were a lot of weaknesses. Not that he expected them to stay weak, and their real danger was mobility.
They had a lot of ground to protect. Once the [Acid Cloud] spells had dispersed, he pointed.
“Jirem, sweep the field. Keep pushing until they reform. I want as many miles as you can grab. Ten would be nice.”
“Yes, Lord Astoragon! Centaurs, we ride!”
Here came Jirem and his fighters. They had been held back in the battle the entire time, pawing the ground, cheering, ready to go any moment—and he had held them.
He hadn’t even used the Shoreaxes or Fraerlings. The Titan watched the Centaurs storm forwards. If not purely as fast as all the Azure Beasts, they were precise, could gallop and fight as one unit—devastating outriders who could clean up the fleeing enemy.
That was Forgotten Wing for you. This army he’d brought, hodgepodge, of so many species, was impossible to find anywhere else in the world. Not just because you had so many species, but because of how they were fighting.
Take the Drakes or Centaurs, for instance. Both were entirely prideful; most Centaurs found it a point of honor to be attacking first in battle. They did not like being held in reserve, but in reserve was where they were best used in this case.
Aria Fellstrider would never allow it or convince her people to act like that in any good way. Similarly, Drakes taking the role of slow-moving, fragile fighters to be escorted by Garuda who fought for them was a hard sell. The Armortraitors fighting side-by-side with Lizardfolk and Nagas…
“We’re all mercenaries here. It was just a first wave; they’ll throw more at us, I’m sure.”
That was Niers’ only comment when someone wanted to interview him for the television. He glanced at the cameras distractedly.
“I intend to push the Dyed Lands back, and I will. It has taken time and energy to get to this point, which I regret, Sir Relz. The war with the Jungle Tails company has hurt all of Baleros.”
“Er, quite, Lord Astoragon. But your display against these ‘blue’ monsters is quite impressive! I was told every other company struggled to effectively rout them!”
Niers smiled with false modesty.
“I’m sure that’s an exaggeration, Sir Relz. I just tend to bring more tools to a fight. Aria herself warned me the Azure Beasts would be a threat, and my guard is fully raised. Anything that could trouble the Bannermare isn’t worth dismissing.”
He turned from the conversation and gave a signal to cut the feed. Niers then proceeded to clear five more waves of blue with minimal casualties.
He hoped that really, really annoyed Aria.
 
——
 
It was safe to say that the Titan was being watched by anyone with a [Strategist] class. You had to. He was the eternal bar to surpass, even if you were doing it out of spite.
So few people could lay claim to being better than him. He’d killed several such challengers to the throne he sat on.
Who, living, was as dangerous as he was? Tulm the Mithril? He’d taught Tulm. Bastion-General Quiteil of Rhir? Orthenon in Chandrar?
Not famous enough, warriors versus pure strategists. On Izril’s soil, Wall Lord Eschowar had never been famous outside of Drake and Gnoll politics. And the Cyclops was all but defunct. Lord Fulviolo El had died, as had Lord Linter Veltras—and again, all but one of these names were different classes, not the pure quill of strategy.
Besides, there was something about Niers Astoragon’s tactics that took the breath away. Not the originality; anyone could think ‘hey, let’s use a cloud and put someone who can see inside of it’. But implementing the tactics across species, using so many?
That was it. It was the myriad nature of his army. There was no other comparison except Rhir itself. It had been a small part of the battle, but the Garuda’s brief aerial combat against the Azure Beasts and their tactics was actually saved and replayed in Manus’ academies as textbook aerial combat for their fliers and [Wyvern Riders].
But for all you could learn from him, there was a pernicious element too, at least, to a certain mindset. It looked like something good. It looked like excitement, even awe.
Hundreds of young cadets in Manus’ Academy of War were standing up in their seats, talking. [Students], [Tacticians], aspiring officers—one raised a clawed hand at their teacher, who was going to break down the way the Garuda had used three-dimensional space to outmaneuver a far more numerous foe, a difficult concept for most land-based peoples to grasp.
“Yes, Cadet…Lible? You have a question?”
“Yes, Ma’am! Why don’t we use Garuda in our armies? Those were incredible tactics, but no one has dedicated Garuda wings in their armies, not even Pallass! They just have mixed-wings units.”
Every head in the class turned, and new students nodded at this obvious question. The grizzled Manus veteran paused and replied, a touch sharper than her students thought was necessary.
“We don’t use other species because Garuda have no presence in Izril, aside from Pallass, and not enough to create entire wings, Cadet! Besides, the tactics employed by the Garuda translate perfectly to our old Oldblood fliers. The tactics being—”
“Feint and withdrawal, Ma’am. Collapsing withdrawal maneuver, Aerial Combat Tactics #22. But if we had Garuda—they’re faster, nimbler.”
The annoying Cadet knew the Drake-based tactic by heart, so the instructor didn’t shift the conversation, and she grew more annoyed. She snapped back.
“The Walled Cities do not need to hire [Mercenaries], Cadet! We are working with the species on our continent, which are Drakes…and Gnolls, of course. Confine your studies to applicable tactics where you hope to be deployed—unless you want to work for Forgotten Wing? Or serve in Rhir?”
Her tone was sarcastic, and the Drake boy sat down, confused.
“No, Ma’am. I just—”
He stared at the frozen image of Peki flying alongside Drakes until the instructor shut off the broadcast. And he was proud. They all were, to see Drakes lighting the skies up with magical flames, being important.
Centaurs, Dullahans, Stitch-folk, Lizardfolk, Humans—the Titan had every species in the world in his armies, and he used them at their finest. Who hadn’t cheered to see their people represented, let alone used well? So…that was why he didn’t understand the instructor’s protective wrath.
Why can’t we do that here? It looked so beautiful. Then it made Cadet Lible feel bad, because for a moment, he had a thought.
Maybe Manus isn’t doing it right? If the Titan can do that—
The instructor snapped at him and called him up to answer a series of increasingly-difficult questions, and the idea fled his mind, but it lingered, that terrible, disruptive thought. Poisonous, treasonous, really.
To all but the King of Destruction’s ilk or someone like the Titan. If you couldn’t do what he had done, then he had to be a fool.
Or what was your excuse?
 
——
 
Niers ignored the applause, the approbations, and commentary after that. Sir Relz wasn’t stupid.
…No, he might well be an idiot, but he was no more of one than anyone else watching Niers. Any congratulations about these seemingly-ideal battles revealed the people commentating had no clue about war.
This was a war. This was a damn campaign, and Niers taking the first few moves meant nothing. He had to be more than just a…a [War Leader] making clever plays and saying ‘volley’ at the right moment.
He was a [Strategist]. He had to wear a hundred hats, and that was why Niers told his students to be people who took interests in travel, the sciences, magic, and culture.
Today, Niers was a Named-rank adventurer. He stood over a body of one of the Azure Beasts, afterwards, and watched Fraerlings covering another corpse. [Alchemists], [Healers], and [Beast Tamers] were carving up corpses, trying to find unique, magical organs or looking out for hazardous materials.
It appalled the Fraerlings. Iuncuta Eirnos was in a full-body suit enchanted against hazardous materials. Niers had on a safety fedora with a huge red feather attached.
“Yep, the blue stuff’s definitely ablative armor. Like a shell they’re all growing. It flakes off; it’ll take one or two hits pretty well, and then they get faster. Probably ideal for creatures as quick as they are.”
He stabbed his enchanted sword through the layers of weird shell-stuff, showing some of the watchers how it was actually thin layers of the carapace; it even had air in ultra-thin ‘pockets’ of space. Like a honeycomb, but miniaturized. Fascinating design.
“Probably ideal against the Stygian-types. The poison might not soak through the layers. Green too…I wonder if those damn parasites can bite through this. Look into that for armor against the Stygians. Actually, see if their venom can kill the green parasites.”
Niers glanced sideways, and instantly, one of the helpers following him around noted that down. He was sure that the many people his company employed had had the same thoughts. Every [Strategist] put ideas like these forwards, but he was just making observations as they came to him.
His students were part of the crowd, but none of them were able to ask questions like in class. Eirnos grunted sourly as she peeled up a flake of blue armor.
“This won’t be much use to your artificers or ours, Niers. No good as armor. Maybe as extra cladding, as you said, but I wonder if it rots.”
Economics. Another hat to wear. There was a lot of gold to be made in monsters, but the sheer poisonous contamination of the Stygians or the danger of the Jade Infestors meant that they were net-losses on killing, just like Crelers. Azure Beasts also seemed less-than-useful beyond their meat. No one had observed their teeth or bones being that magical—yet.
However, the Titan was calm.
“It’ll be worth it. I want [Mass Preservation] runes put down on all corpses and have them stored. Not in mass piles. Neatly, with round-the-clock monitoring. For parasites as well as tricks. Cameral, deliver a report on the work by tomorrow night.”
It would be a huge effort. The Dullahan gulped as Niers pointed out one of the [Quartermasters] who was overseeing the work. Everything was effort; he sniffed at some blue blood clinging to his gloves, then wiped it on his pants.
“It even smells like damn blueberries. Colors…colors. Umina, Marian. Report!”
“Professor!”
They dashed forwards, making all the Fraerlings on the dead Azure Wolf’s body back up from Marian’s hooves. Niers pointed.
“You will contact Elvallian and our [Master Librarian] and find out all the information on colors and monsters you can. Iuncuta Eirnos, please furnish them with Fraerling texts on the same. Give me a report on fighting enemies with color-based magic. More specifically, how to hurt them. Cross-reference Xrn the Small Queen and, uh, Belavierr the Stitch Witch. I know I’ve seen reports on the Small Queen using a spell like this.”
“Yes, Professor! When…?”
“Just give me a report by the end of the week or when you have more. Oh, and one more thing.”
He waved them back, massaging the bridge of his nose.
“—Be careful about the Stitch Witch records, especially the authentic ones. Ask our [Master Librarian] about word-based hazards. What’s the damn word? Memetic? There’s precautions.”
They looked less happy about that, but Niers waved them off. Patrol Captain Shoike was impressed.
“You’ve implemented memetic hazard training in your own research divisions, Lord Astoragon? I thought only Fraerlings had them.”
The Titan snorted softly.
“I did a bit, but [Librarians] tend to implement them as well—at least, the ones who survive handling anything of that danger level. Okay, I doubt I’m coming to any grand pronouncements studying these monsters. Everyone, watch your damn feet around Fraerlings. Where’s Rozcal?”
Part of Niers longed to be the adventurer, having to figure all this out without full teams of people to delegate to. To just keep marching into the clouds, but only Foliana got to even play adventurer these days…he couldn’t waste time like that.
However, there was that sense of excitement. Of seeing something so new and fascinating…and at least one Fraerling had that grin like a kid who’d forgotten that time was supposed to make you old.
 
——
 
Commander Rozcal had encountered more elements of the Azure Beasts—albeit not ones currently being hunted down as stragglers or engaging the soldiers.
Even with all the will in the world, the blue beetle was not going to be much of a threat to anyone besides, well, Fraerlings. Give it credit; it was a foot long, had a huge, spiky horn, and it was fast. But it was no Corumdon Beetle.
Any member of the Tallguard could shoot it down, enhanced speed or not, if it came at them. Easy to dispose of.
…So why, exactly, was Commander Rozcal out of his Adamantium armor? He had stripped down to some bodysuit leggings and was bare-chested, two arms raised, crouching like a wrestler.
“No one interfere. If I die, let the bugger go! Come on, Azure Beetle or whatever you’re supposed to be called.”
The angry horned beetle was pawing at the ground like a bull. It charged in a blue blur, and Rozcal shouted and leapt to the side. He barely avoided being gored by the horn and checked himself; he had a red gouge across his muscled chest.
“Hah! It’s pretty fast! [Stop Bleeding, Damnit]!”
The wound obligingly stopped, and he raised his fists and sprinted at the beetle. It was not expecting the uppercut he gave it, and it buzzed backwards. Then it charged again, and Rozcal shouted—when the two met, he was grappling with the beetle, two hands on its horn, as the two tried to throw each other down.
Iuncuta Eirnos had a hand over her face as Rozcal broke every safety regulation they had. Niers just snorted. He watched as Rozcal threw down with the beetle for six more minutes before planting a foot on its underbelly as its feet waggled in the air and roared victory. Let people laugh at the sight or mock Rozcal.
In his way, the commander of the Crelerbane Armor from Reton was a lot more suited to handling the Dyed Lands than most.
 
——
 
The Azure Beasts came back the next day in cautious, probing attacks, and Niers’ strategies held…for a time. He defaulted mostly to using the Medusae and cloud spells to great effect; blinding or slowing the Azure Beasts was simple.
As the Titan understood it, Jungle Tails had employed similar strategies against the wave of blue and done better than the Iron Vanguard, who had their defensive lines overrun and been forced to chase the fast monsters, or Maelstrom’s Howling, who did not like being outsped.
However, what he had brought was a bit more adaptability in his armies; Jungle Tails didn’t have his Fullhelms nor the aerial support, and their casters had been dive-bombed by the fliers.
“There’s a weakness when the birds dive. Let’s throw out illusions and time our bows to pincushion them. If they’re not hitting the land-based beasts, it’s a good use of their time. Get Lizvek on it before they go; he likes figuring out that sort of thing. Have…yes, have Venaz do that. The Shoreaxes won’t see much combat today.”
At first, Niers’ special class students were very pleased to be the Titan’s go-to option for anything he wanted done. Then they realized that they were essentially glorified assistants. They weren’t so capable that Niers had to keep them in their roles, so they ended up running around doing all the odd jobs he wanted.
Well, it was good experience. The main thing Niers did on the second day of engagements was to have one of his [Mages] cast a few spells.
[Light]. Albeit broadcasted across the entire front with illumination levels that were almost blinding until Niers had [Grand Magus] Veern adjust it not to blind his forces.
“What color would you like to bait the Azure Beasts with, Lord Astoragon?”
The Wistram-trained Lamia had been mostly casting low-level cloud spells all day, along with the occasional [Mass Slow], and he tried to hide the yawn of dismay at using his talents thusly. But Niers’ raised brows made the Lamia slither upright slightly.
“The purest and most intense color you have, Magus Veern. I’d also like you to tailor your spellcasting so it’s not just suitable to your Skills. Something lesser [Mages] can cast with minimal practice.”
“Oh, for other parts of the front? Of course. The color? I can mimic the other monsters of the Dyed Lands from sight alone, though I might need a specimen in my hands to do perfect color-matching. Once I have it, I’ll remember.”
Niers held up a finger, thinking. Then he fished out a speaking stone, tapped it.
“Niers to Foliana. What’s your favorite color?”
He listened a moment as Veern eyed the speaking stone and everyone listened. Niers rolled his eyes.
“Poo-brown? Vetoed. Veern, give me yellow, pink, and green.”
“Three-Color Stalker’s eyes? Of course, Lord Astoragon. Let me know if I’m mixing them right. I, ah, haven’t had the pleasure of seeing her eyes close-up. And hope never to.”
“She’s not going to eat you, Veern. She doesn’t eat Lamias. Aside from that one time, and that was for a job.”
The [Mage] had a beautiful tricolor light bathing the forces of the Forgotten Wing shortly, and Niers observed the sporadic attacks from the Azure Beasts…well, if they paused a bit when seeing the colors, they weren’t doing anything different. He ordered the lights shone across his forces, then toured the other areas copying his tactics.
“Hold—the colors don’t look right here.”
A nervous [Battlemage] broadcasting the [Light] spells froze up, but Niers wasn’t angry—he just spoke into a stone.
“Magus Veern, please produce a [Magic Picture] of the exact colors you’re using and have them circulated to every [Mage] on the front. I want color-standardization. If anything has good eyesight, it’s this lot.”
It still didn’t do much, if anything. Niers had observed how a bright light mimicking another color might actually cause a smaller number of the Azure Beasts to back off or react like it was a threat, but they kept coming at his forces. He had the lightshow continue. For the rest of the week…poor Venaz saw little action and a lot of Lizvek.
 
——
 
Niers actually returned to Elvallian after a week. Just for a day; he teleported this time, without fanfare or announcing the move. In fact, one of the Tallguard got to play him for half a day.
They were using long-range teleport spells at intervals to ‘hop’ across the continent. It was an idea they’d copied from Archmage Valeterisa and their spies in The Wandering Inn. Fraerlings had taught Niers’ [Mages] the magic now coming out of Wistram, but it wasn’t going to be practical until the Forgotten Wing company could put a lot more gold and time into the project, and even then, it’d be priority things only.
…And they did not have the coin or resources to burn on this. Niers didn’t go to his classes; he strode into the war room with Vler, the top [Strategist] in the citadel with so many fighting frontline battles. The man was a Human from Kaliv, actually. He usually looked stressed, even if Niers suspected that rocks would break in battle before Vler.
In this case, stress was warranted. The Forgotten Wing company’s maps were lit up with battles across the continent, and a lot of them were marked with red icons.
Defeats, retreats, ambushes, and just…if Niers was explaining the map to Erin again, he’d be able to show her broad trends or concentrations of force, but it was a simple picture.
“This Dyed Lands push is costing us on a lot of fronts, Niers. I know it has to be done, but Lizvek had a working strategy, and in a few weeks, he’d have figured out blue…”
“Lizvek would cede another fifty miles before he figured it out, Vler. It’s reputation.”
“Reputation.”
Vler didn’t go for ‘reputation’. He looked at the cost in gold, manpower, or magic as variables he respected. Niers understood the man’s foibles and strengths. Vler was an anti-monarchist to his bones. Part of why he’d left Kaliv had been that business with the Cursed Prince…a blow to the Kingdom of Griffins.
Their loss, Niers’ gain. He really should have kept up his presence in Terandria…but it cost too much. Everything was costing too much, and the Forgotten Wing company did not want to eat these deficits long.
Vler indicated the wave of lines moving out of their western holdings.
“Jungle Tails isn’t letting us go without a fight. I’ll get most of our people out intact, but…here. Gelizment. Are you sure? There’s three days, maybe, when we can pull out our forces.”
He tapped the city that Niers had been thinking of for a while. The same one that he and Erin had spoken about in her [Pavilion of Secrets]. The Titan gazed down at the icon on the map where units were gathering.
“I’m sure.”
“I’ll tell General Lrjax, then.”
That was it. Vler questioned what he chose to, but he could understand what Niers was doing. Just not like it. You didn’t have to like a lot of this. Niers rested his weight on the edge of the map.
“General Gloriam’s cleaning up well. Diomedes…tell him I want him heading west the moment he finishes his work. Full speed.”
Vler nodded, eyes flicking across the board. After a moment, Niers sighed.
“You know, Vler, Perorn just marches up to my face and asks me what the hell I’m doing.”
“I know. I’ve never seen it work.”
If she weren’t in Izril, she’d be acting as Niers’ second-in-command or riding out from the citadel to take to the fight in an important area. He could really have used her, but…she was sending gold from Izril. Every bit counted. In time, she’d grow her forces there, but that was assuming they could weather the storm long enough to reap his investments.
Strategy. Niers had needed to send someone he trusted to Izril. After Peclir, trust was low with the Titan, even among his best people. He flicked his gaze to Vler’s reserved face.
“Sometimes I told her if she got annoying enough. Or she’d just rattle off guesses and try to read my expression.”
“And I skulk around in the background, trying to figure out what you’re doing like those mystery novels I enjoy. Want me to be more Perorn-like?”
“No, just commenting.”
Vler steepled his fingers together.
“I’m trusting you have the vision and see what I’m seeing. Let me just ask…are we doing something dark?”
His voice was very cautious now, and Niers shook his head instantly.
“Just run-of-the-mill bastarding, Vler.”
“No rituals? No people in hoods?”
“Nope.”
“No jars filled with Yellow Rivers in wells?”
“No.”
The [Continental Strategist] nodded after a long moment of sizing Niers up. He didn’t relax or appear happier. Niers wondered whether Vler had been hoping for the opposite response.
“Well then, keep ‘looking good’ against the Azure Beasts. Supply lines are fully linked up from here to the front. You know I can’t stomp into an area and clean it up like Perorn can, right?”
The Fraerling sighed as he watched more icons appearing over the map of his holdings. He could sense Jungle Tails in the west, a growing stain of power. Sense his own territories reduce as his people just abandoned what they’d kept and built up for decades.
“I know.”
 
——
 
By the time Niers returned to the front, the true danger of the Dyed Lands and the reason why no other Great Company had managed to do more than push a wave of colors back for a time was evident.
“They’re adapting.”
Niers lowered the spyglass, and there was a rumble from Venaz and Lizvek. Not of outright denial, but the desire to want it to be otherwise.
The Azure Beasts had split up. They were coming in dispersed pockets, not a wave, the better to avoid the Medusae’s eye-spells. Worse, Niers watched them running at his front lines, and the moment the cloud spells popped up, they turned and just fled.
As far as he could tell, it wasn’t so much a single controlling intelligence or even a hive-mind. The monsters were just smart enough to recognize patterns.
It made his job harder, of course. Niers got a nasty surprise when he tried to use the cloud-spells to herd the Azure Beasts into killzones; this time, the wave of monsters didn’t back out, but charged through the clouds, straight into his lines.
“Damn. Jirem, clean that up! [Mages]! I want vine spells ready to pop!”
Adapt. Now, Niers put down vine spells that snared the smaller monsters and fought off the waves. His forces adapted, and the Azure Beasts learned how to send a huge monster crashing through the vines then storm the gaps.
In response, Niers had pit traps dug and baited the bigger monsters into charging into the drops. They elected to storm random spots in his defenses. He decided it was time to introduce them to the concept of [Stone Wall] spells raised at the last second so they pasted themselves on the walls.
Then, for good measure, he rotated in several lines of Drake pikes, and the combined strategies held them for two days. Then they adapted, and he adapted.
A bag of tricks. Niers could do this for months, and the blue wave wouldn’t continue forever. However…the Titan had a weakness he knew full well.
 
——
 
The Titan’s full-board armies could find your weakness and tear you apart with it. If you surprised him, he just changed moves and hammered something else. Trade hammer blows with him and he’d be attaching ropes to your ankles and hooking them to angry horses—or something clever like that.
Analogies were stupid. The point was that the Titan would win on strategy, but his weakness was this: if you got him, if the Azure Beasts found a gap in his strategies by doing something new, he had to implement a new strategy. His thinking time was not the issue; he’d have a way to kill you in seconds.
The cost was the time it took for people to run into position, for him to implement. He had to reset the board, and in those moments, his army was vulnerable.
Not weak; he had defenses in place, but it was those times when the blue monsters hit the frontlines that Balsam earned his pay.
“They’re on Mustard company! Get them! Go, go, go!”
The Lizardfolk and their stupid games, their silly jokes—now it was all seriousness as the Drake led Vinegar company into the fight. He shoved aside Lizardfolk, raised an axe, and crushed the first Azure Wolfman’s head in.
Wolfman. It looked like a Wolf Beastkin, sort of. It was bipedal, tore at everything around it, and died fast enough if you broke its armor. Balsam did it with a single swing, and the Lizardfolk with spears who’d been jabbing at it fell back, mouths open.
“Push them back! Get around them and don’t let them run! Push—push—”
He charged straight into the Azure Beasts, swearing and sweating. Their real danger wasn’t in close-quarters combat. They were fast as lightning, and it was terrifying to charge them because you would get cut. But the real danger was them moving around you. If they got at a place you didn’t have armor on, they’d rip into you and be away. So press, press—
Twice, one of the Wolfmen raked his face, across his helmet. He crushed another head in, and then they were gone.
“Bastards don’t like taking casualties. Who’s hurt? Sound off!”
The panting Drake took only a moment before he had them marching back to their spots. By now, Skeldriv’s Lizardfolk had seen more combat against the Azure Beasts than they cared to. Despite the Titan’s strategies, one group had to take down the blue monsters, and guess who?
It was them. It was always them. The Shoreaxes and Jirem’s Hooves just stood there unless the beasts bypassed one of the Titan’s plans, then they were there fast enough, but unless it was the Fullhelms fighting under clouds—and they were digging trenches today, to ambush the beasts when they ran through—
“Hey, Balsam, why’re we doing all the fighting? The Shoreaxes are, like, three times our size. Can’t they take the front? Is it racism?”
One of the Lizardfolk under Balsam’s command whined at him as Eyevil came over to see how badly they were hurt. The Drake spat some water out; he had light gashes in the scales on his face.
“I thought you lost your face, Balsam.”
Eyevil was relieved to see he wasn’t badly hurt. The Drake was tough as rocks and strong as…rocks. Balsam shrugged.
“I’m fine, but Mustard got chewed up. Good thing the Titan’s sending us reinforcements. Where are these new guys from?”
“All the way in Oitz.”
“Oitz? That’s three hundred miles from here. Damn. He’s just feeding us with Lizardfolk from all over.”
“Why?”
The Lizardfolk weren’t rebellious; they were earning combat pay and being paid well for serving under the Titan himself, but it was wearing them down. Balsam eyed an entire three companies’ worth of Lizardfolk being rotated in who weren’t Skeldriv at all. And they were heading straight for…
“Balsam! Take command of this lot! Orders from the top!”
The Drake glared at the command tent where the Titan of Baleros was working from. He growled as Eyevil turned to him.
“It’s not racism, Chinv. We’re the new Selphids.”
It took a moment for his comments to sink in, then all the Lizardfolk groaned loudly. Chinv leaned on his spear.
“Aw. I don’t wanna be.”
 
——
 
Balsamic was doing his job. And that job was to take Lizardfolk, who laughed at his name then joined Skeldriv’s forces, and both keep them alive and get them used to their new position.
After weeks, despite their losses—and they were taking losses—Skeldriv had doubled in size. Niers was reading lists of wounded and dead and grimaced.
“Attrition rates are way too high without healing potions. Tell Vler I need three times as many [Healers] and [Medics], especially ones who were trained by Geneva or know her work, and half again as many more soldiers.”
Small wonder the other Great Companies weren’t committing to the offensive as much as he was. They were further off or just saw the lack of potions as a dire predicament. More deaths, more wounds…
But Skeldriv’s camp was packed. The glowering Balsam was in the middle of a wave of Lizardfolk cheering and resting before they were rotated back onto the frontlines when Niers visited.
And he did visit. In fact, he preceded his arrivals with a small army of his own: barrels of beer that he had beached in front of the cheering Lizardfolk.
“Skeldriv! You’ve been fighting like [Heroes] on the front, and rest assured, I am watching. I trust you’ve been eating properly, and not the Tier 0 rations that Tallfolk eat? Cricket bars and stuffed mealworms are not how I want to live.”
Lizardfolk waved and cheered, shouting at him.
 
“I’ll eat one! Titan, give me a signature!”
“Where’s Lady Foliana?”
“Hey, why are all the new people here? I barely recognize anyone! Wait, are you my cousin’s cousin’s cousin?”
 
The Titan let them quiet down a bit before continuing, glancing around. He had made sure they were getting fine food—that kept a [Mercenary] happy—but he nodded to the side.
“I also know that the fighting has been boring for some. Jirem, your people must have sore hooves from standing around.”
There was a cluster of Centaurs camped next to Skeldriv’s own—they were cordial enough. You had to be to work in Forgotten Wing. At his words, some of the Centaurs pawed the ground or stamped their hooves, but their leader, the cool Jirem, just called back.
“We could use more action, Titan. It doesn’t sit well with us letting our friends do all the hard work.”
A look to the right saw a few of the Shoreaxes watching too, and Niers nodded at them before pitching his voice to the crowd.
“Rest assured, you will have your moments, and they’ll be damn bloody and needful, Jirem. Trust that I have a plan.”
Those words alone caused a shiver among some of the listeners, and they nodded. Some of their stress or annoyance visibly faded as the Titan went on.
“I know exactly what I’m doing. But there are hiccups in every plan, and when there are, Skeldriv is cleaning up the enemy. So here’s something I’d like to share with you all. Captain Balsamic, front and center! I heard there was a Drake serving with Lizardfolk, and I had to see that. Let alone the name.”
Cheers and laughter, and Balsam scowled as he was practically pushed forwards. He glared, nervously, but Niers just nodded at him and pretended they didn’t really know each other. Then he gestured to the side.
“Cameral, show them.”
The Dullahan had a Chest of Holding by his side, and he held up a bag that was rather plentiful. He showed the Lizardfolk a lot of coins. Gold and silver. Mostly silver, to be fair, but they oohed. They were expecting the Dullahan to throw it, but Niers just nodded.
“A hefty purse. Captain Balsam—take it off Cameral, would you?”
The Drake blinked, then his eyes brightened. He accepted the rather fat purse, and there were complaints, jeers—then Niers spoke.
“I think it’s Chinv, isn’t it? Some Lizardman was calling me racist. I heard that. Get over here!”
A Lizardman in Vinegar company jumped and quaked, then approached. Niers gestured, and the bag of coins made the Lizardman stagger. His mouth opened.
“Wait, is this mine?”
Then the [Mercenaries] went silent, and Niers gestured. More people were lugging Chests of Holding over, and his eyes glittered.
“Every Lizardfolk who’s served in the front lines gets one. Every single one of you, so I don’t want to hear complaints. If you’re mad you don’t get a bag, well, wait until this wave finishes. This is just a token of my gratitude.”
Cameral had a list of names and began to call them out, but the sudden roar and cheering of voices made him flinch. Niers saw Lizardfolk pressing forwards and shouted.
“Order! You’ll get your turn, and we have your names written down!”
In truth, it wasn’t that much gold. Silver coins made up most of the bag, but it was still a lot. The Titan actually stepped away for a good three hours while he let officers use command Skills to keep the mob more or less in line, then he came back.
Everyone was drinking and cheering him, and he walked among them with Cameral, who held a dais up. Bright eyes filled with gold, companionship, glory, levels, and battle.
Many of you will die and never get that reward. You know it, and I know it. Balsam himself was looking moderately more happy as he sat with his expanded command—his bag did have mostly gold coins in it.
But Niers was just surveilling the mood and watching himself. As he had said to his students, whom he trusted were watching, there was a difference.
He had to lead and inspire. The King of Destruction could probably walk through most of his armies and get the same reaction without needing to pay them, but he was a ruler. Niers had to earn every shred of the respect others were born with.
He thought the loyalty he acquired was worth more for that, but the Selphids…Niers wished they were here joking, repairing their bodies—he shook himself.
“Alright, who here has been fighting the longest? Pull up a chair and give me something to eat. How d’you feel about the Azure Beasts? Anything I’m missing from my golden pedestal?”
The second important reason he’d come here was not just to raise morale, but to sit with his soldiers and get their perspectives. Usually, they didn’t tell him much. In fact, some of their advice could be woefully wrong, but Niers listened and judged as Lizardfolk veterans talked about what the best weapons to fight the Azure Beasts were, or showed him how they’d pasted the blue carapace-stuff to their own armor after picking it up.
“How many of ‘em are there, Titan? We keep killing the blues, but there’s been months of fighting. Are they just coming without end, like the Dyed Lands poops them out, or what?”
Everyone wanted to know that, so Niers frankly speculated with them.
“I’ve read my [Mage] reports and all the intelligence we have, soldier. Frankly? I don’t think so. I’ve seen summoned monsters and monsters that can spawn them out, and if there was that level of magic or such a monster, we would have seen it. Granted, these ‘color swathes’ obscure vision, but we’d have identified those patterns. You want my guess?”
Everyone did, so Niers took a bite of some roasted meat he suspected came from an Azure Wolf and grunted.
“My guess is that the Dyed Lands are just bigger than we thought. Dimensionally changed either from the time-skip event or they were always that way.”
“But the numbers—”
Niers waved that off.
“It looks like a lot, and the green swarms certainly are, but have you noticed the Azure Beasts retreat frequently? They don’t like dying in great numbers. And notice how many fewer Azure Wolves there are? I suspect we’re wiping out significant parts of their ecosystems. Now, the question is: why? My guess is that something is pushing them out more than just them wanting more food.”
A silence fell at that. No one liked that particular idea, but Niers nodded around.
“These waves have limits. The key is that with every month that passes, more are being born. They have a hundred miles of territory, and they’re eating, mating—”
“Pooping!”
“—that too. Corrupting the land. We’re just lucky they keep fighting each other, but that’s why we’re here. That’s why Forgotten Wing is here in force when the other Great Companies can’t even bother to send more than a regiment or two. Aria’s the only senior commander I’ve seen aside from a [General] or two on the other fronts, and she’s getting bored. Not us. Trust that this is not only important, but I have a plan, and that there’s more to come.”
His defense against the blue was the most solid bulwark the monsters had encountered yet. If there were reprisals…Niers met every eye as he tore off another piece of meat.
“The more danger, the more to gain. So I want you all to eat and drink like [Kings], then I want you sharp. No sloppiness! I’ve seen a bit of it this week. You’ll get rotated off the front soon enough, but you’re the Forgotten Wing’s finest. Let’s show them how it’s done.”
 
——
 
Captain Balsam did appreciate the gold, though it was still offset by all the damn Lizardfolk he had to herd about.
“Hey, uh, are you my Captain, sir?”
“Probably. Latrines are that way. If you’ve lost your stuff, go to each tent leader and ask.”
“Hey, you read my mind! Wow, you are a cool Drake.”
The new Lizardfolk got into arguments, had varying levels of training and equipment, but they were still decently good at working together. Morale was high, and for a frontline unit, Balsam had to admit that the Titan knew how to keep his soldiers happy.
In fact, you could argue it was better being in the actual army than in the reserves; the Centaurs were still kicking up shit at being so bored, but if you were lightly wounded or not engaged in combat, you got grunt-work.
Digging latrines, setting up new tents, digging trenches…a lot of digging. Or hauling. The Titan’s [Strategists] were all gifted at defensive works, which meant they were all relagated to [Engineers]. And that meant the [Soldiers] were all related to [Laborers] when it came to building said defenses.
Balsam and his company, as fighters, never got the job, and he heard more than one Lizardfolk group complaining.
“I hate that snooty guy.”
“Which one? Kissilt?”
“No, the one who tells you to measure everything.”
“Oh, Lizvek. Yeah, he sucks. Where did you work today? I didn’t see you. Corpse-hauling duty? The Fraerlings yell at you if you don’t watch your step.”
“Nope. Some [Druid] was screaming at us in the forest.”
Jikneq Forest? Balsam remembered it on the map. He glanced up as a Lizardfolk showed another blistered scales.
“We have to cut down trees and dump wood all over the place.”
“Yeah, no wonder a [Druid] was yelling at you, stupid. But hey, good job! That’s firewood!”
“Well, no one’s hauling it back yet. We’re drying it all out because it’s wet. Hey, Captain Balsamic! Can’t we burn wet wood?”
The Drake was trying to rest. He was stretched out dangerously near the cook fires, glumly turning down interested Lizardfolk who had heard he was down for romance. Sleeping within the ranks caused trouble. He flirted only with officers. He grunted back.
“Anything burns if it’s hot enough. But normally you want dry wood.”
“Who knew?”
“…Have you not ever made a fire in your life?”
“Nope! Heck, I didn’t know how to tie shoes until someone showed me how earlier this year! I just enlisted!”
Balsam tried to drag his helmet over his eyes.
Wonderful. More rookies. Keeping them alive, or mostly alive, was a headache, and he cursed the Titan again for it. The problem was—within even a few battles, most Lizardfolk were shooting up in levels. Counterlevelling.
He was sure the Titan wanted more out of this than just training up a new vanguard, but what? Balsam thought about it, then gave up. He decided he’d try to woo Eyevil with a bottle of something when a Lizardfolk called out.
“Hey, uh, Captain?”
“What now?”
“Your tail’s in the fire.”
 
——
 
After several more skirmishes Niers returned to Elvallian. Was he stressed? No more than any campaign, he supposed, but he kept waiting. Waiting…he wished Foliana were here.
Oh, she popped in now and then, but she would just grunt at him, raid their pantries and supplies, then vanish. On her own tasks, which only she, and sometimes—possibly—he knew about. When she was gone, he worried, because of all the people in this world, not even he could find her or know how she was doing.
Part of his stress, but he had to have faith. The Titan came back to Elvallian several times, to check on the rest of his company, to monitor The Wandering Inn and the [Palace of Fates] situation—
One second he was burning through all his spells against a horror in Izril, the next facing the Azure Beasts. It was why he was glad for Foliana to say the things he could not.
Yes, you’ve got a Mortemdefieir Titan. I have a hundred thousand monsters to fight.
Affection and pragmatism. It wasn’t his inn. It wasn’t even his damn continent. The news had gotten tired of showcasing him holding the line against the hordes of the Dyed Lands. Because he wasn’t failing or doing anything ‘interesting’, the world paid attention to the New Lands and their stupid magicless ground.
But Niers was certain that anyone living within a thousand miles of his frontlines appreciated his forces, and he made sure to update them on the fact that Forgotten Wing was winning. Still, not every day was exciting and required him.
So he went back to teaching class only to realize that the Titan was not the Professor.
 
——
 
“Incorrect! Your command is dead. Give me a way to counter this commander charge or we are all dying in the next fifteen minutes. Well? Anyone?”
Niers bellowed at a room full of younger students and saw them all freeze up. He realized he’d been shouting nonstop; he’d nearly reduced the [Princess], Angelica, to tears.
The Titan moderated his voice; normally, he had softer hands with new students, but he still tapped the edge of his podium with his little wand.
“—I’m sorry. Understand I’m not actually angry at you, but also know: this is real. There will be a moment, someday, where you will watch an entire unit of soldiers die under your command, and it will be your fault. If you freeze, if you fold, everyone else dies. Just the other day, I was told Umina walked her forces into some Stygian monsters in an ambush. She’s okay, but she lost three dozen soldiers. She’s one of my best students, and that blunder was on her. I need you not to freeze up. So—focus.”
He wondered if a Goblin would ever freeze up like the students who’d been sent to him to learn battle. But to their credit, it seemed like the broadcasts of his battles were putting a fire under his new cadets; Angelica herself was first to raise her hand to try and rectify her errors.
These students would go on to lead his armies, some of them. Many graduates of Elvallian’s academy did serve with Forgotten Wing to gain field experience. Most would inevitably go to their homelands to serve, but Niers knew his [Strategists]. They knew him.
 
——
 
He found time for a gathering of fourteen [Strategists], most of them appearing via scrying orb, to do much what he had done with the soldiers—get the impressions of his lower-level commanders on the front.
This group wasn’t fighting in the Dyed Lands, but waging war against Jungle Tails. Unlike the [Mercenaries], who were happy enough, Niers had to hear out a lot of concerns.
Everyone knew Tulm the Mithril, Niers’ best student, but he had oh so many more. Baeize was a Drake from Manus who’d been kicked out of the City of War for being too unconventional. Evergloa was a Drowned Woman who had elected not to return to the undersea world. Kith, a Garuda who’d been part of the King of Destruction’s empire as a lad and fled to Baleros to avoid reprisals against him and his family.
All of them proud alumni of his school, and, he realized, still with a bit of that rivalry in them.
“Your new students holding up decently, Professor? All I can hear is ‘Umina this’, ‘Wil Kallinad’ that.”
Evergloa was a bit sour, and Niers chuckled as Kith rolled his eyes.
“That’s just scrying orbs amplifying everything, Evergloa. You would have been just as famous if you’d been at Daquin back then. As for the students…they’re green, but the ones who went to sea have held up well. I haven’t had Venaz mouthing at me once despite seeing zero combat and working with Lizvek.”
“Dead gods, I heard you had a loudmouth. Well, I’d have taken him and his Relic-class weapon. Niers…I object to my orders.”
Baeize spoke frankly, and Niers nodded at him as the [Strategists] refocused and sombered.
“I’ve read your stated objections, Baeize. Hit me with it.”
The Drake nodded, rubbing at his cheek where a fresh scar was visible. It didn’t look like it came from an arrow; a Medusae must have tried to petrify him and only gotten one side of his face. Niers winced; that didn’t heal easy. Baeize just shook his head.
“It’s not me wanting to get revenge on Jungle Tails for the face, sir. This is my honest appraisal: we need to fight for every inch of ground. I realize as a Drake this sounds asinine—”
“No, you’ve got our support, Baeize; don’t sugarcoat it.”
Another [Strategist] interrupted, and the Drake nodded appreciatively. He turned to Niers.
“I heard they were making a stand at Gelizment. Let us do that everywhere, sir.”
“There’s not enough potions, Baeize. We’ll bleed rivers.”
The Drake exhaled and glanced over his shoulder; flies were buzzing around his tent even with spells. He was stationed in the marshes, overseeing a falling back operation.
“We have to. Sir, it’s not just about income or strategic areas of control. I’ve seen Jungle Tails sweeping forwards. I get they’re back and dangerous, but I’ve also seen their Nagas leading huge mobilization efforts during my raids. They’re fortifying this area. If we don’t fight back now, and hold on, in a year’s time they’ll have turned this entire area into trapped hell. We won’t take it back easily. I respect us saving civilians and our soldiers, but—we have to push. That’s my strategic analysis, sir.”
The rest of the group muttered mostly agreements. Niers nodded at Baeize.
“I hear you, Strategist. Believe me, I see the reports. I’m not going to ask you to see the ‘big picture’. I’m sure you see it. I’m asking you to trust my judgement.”
“…If you have a plan, it’s not bearing out in any troop movements I can see, sir. Nor is Maelstrom’s Howling exactly jumping to our aid. Or the Iron Vanguard. If they do get the Eyes…then we should all have been attacking now. I know my history. I know the Gazers are under attack, even if there’s no actual reports of combat in the deep jungles.”
Baeize fixed Niers with a steady gaze as he brushed at flies landing on him. The Titan paced left and right, and he replied.
“I’m waiting for my moment, Baeize. I can’t control the moment the hammer drops. I’ll give you this as reassurance: General Diomedes is on the march to your front. When he arrives, we will push back, regardless of any other balls I have in the air.”
That did give them something, and Niers saw the [Strategists] relax slightly. However, they still focused on him with that desire, a need to be reassured they weren’t risking their lives for nothing. Baeize coughed and cleared his throat.
“But there’s a hammer, sir?”
Niers paused, and he didn’t lie, not to them. But the truth? He shrugged as he spoke it.
“I sure as hell hope so, or else I’m going to look rather foolish.”
The Titan grinned, and they laughed at that, but he was…waiting. He hated waiting, so Niers filled it with the only thing he had ever had:
Ideas.
 
——
 
“Some days, I feel like if I replaced every leadership and combat Skill I have with economic ones, we’d have conquered Baleros by now.”
“That theory only holds so long as you live in a monetary-based economy.”
“Bah. Which particular city do you call home, Eirnos? One of those ‘everyone gets free food and a hug’ cities? Alechie? Culketripan? No, wait, it’s Culqe of Eyes, right?”
“I move from city to city as I’m needed. Rather like you did.”
If Niers had any equal in the field, whom he had to treat like one rather than a subordinate, it was Iuncuta Eirnos. What annoyed the Fraerling woman was that Niers clearly viewed her forces as inferior.
She, like the Centaurs and other elements of Niers’ forces, chafed at his lineholding actions. At first, she had been concerned he’d rely on her people too much. Now, she felt like his only use for her people was their research and technology divisions, which were superior.
They were entering a makeshift laboratory where monsters from the Dyed Lands were being analyzed by Fraerlings. [Alchemagi], [Researchers], your odd [Druid], and more. Fraerlings knew science whereas Tallfolk were so…incautious.
For instance, Niers himself had eaten some of the Dyed Lands monsters when Iuncuta’s report indicated very clearly that there were some definite harms to consuming all of them!
“Nothing major, but eating their flesh for sustained periods will definitely add up the, uh…chelk factors?”
“I don’t know what that is, but if Rozcal gets his pet, I’ll eat what I damn well please. Lizardfolk were scarfing down the monsters on the sly for weeks.”
“And you allowed it?”
“Of course not. I forbade it entirely. However, [Mercenaries] have a very keen sense of what’s edible and what’s not.”
So he used his people like test subjects. Or…knew they’d disobey him and that the results would ratify his actual researchers. Eirnos glowered harder, but she had to admit, Rozcal was a weakness in her arguments.
She stared balefully at the commander, who was still riding his beetle pet. He’d tamed the stupid thing, and half his Crelerbane Armor had found different creatures to tame. Worse, Niers seemed to think this was a good idea!
“[Beast Tamers], any progress in getting these Azure Wolves to play nice?”
He addressed a group of men and women, many of whom sported bites despite their heavy gear. A grimacing Human man showed him bites on one arm.
“None, Titan. We’re taking them further from the front; we think they’ve got that pack-solidarity in them to their bones while they know their friends are around. Twice, I swear some of those breakaway groups were coming for us.”
“And the green ones are just parasites. No good on them. I don’t want them anywhere near my kids.”
A female [Beast Master] shuddered. Niers nodded reasonably.
“We’ve got a few more reds too; even if we’re facing ‘blue’, the other colors make an appearance now and then. I’d love them if they don’t get uncontrollable after eating and growing. No green is fine by me. Hmmm. They don’t react to your Skills at all?”
“Oh, they do, Lord Astoragon. Just not fully. We can’t get more than trust or them eating our food.”
Iuncuta Eirnos was about to call over Rozcal to give his input when Niers snapped his fingers.
“What if you painted yourselves blue?”
“…Lord Astoragon?”
The Fraerling glowered at their expressions.
“Don’t give me that look. Just wear all-blue clothing if you don’t fancy a dip in some dye. They’re blue monsters. Blue is solidarity. Give it a try. Hey, Rozcal, how did you tame that beetle?”
Niers hollered, and Rozcal stopped flying about to shout back.
“I got some blueberries, rubbed them all over me, and the fellow was nice as could be!”
The [Beast Tamers] and Eirnos stared at Rozcal as Niers turned. He waved them off.
“Best of luck; report in later. Thank you!”
As they tromped off, arguing over who had to choose which color, Eirnos turned to Niers.
“Did you know that ahead of time or was that a guess?”
She suspected he’d heard it from Rozcal to show off, but Niers just wrinkled his nose.
“That? Just a guess. None of this is very impressive. It’s all…basic. Adventurers tend to need that kind of flexibility. I knew a fellow who couldn’t count to twenty, but he could adapt to any monster in seconds and trap the buggers. We need to make a profit out of this expedition somehow.”
“As opposed to fighting Jungle Tails?”
Another raised pair of brows.
“Jungle Tails are worth lots of money. Ransoms, gear, territory—if I were so wretched, I could sell them to the Slavers of Roshal. I lose a lot of money this way.”
Another huge sigh. Eirnos could read lies and truths perfectly, and she didn’t like how genuinely regretful the Titan sometimes was about how he couldn’t do monstrous things. She folded her arms.
“Most of the Fraerling cities wouldn’t work with you if you allied with that lot.”
“Yes, well, hopefully you make up for a lack of Roshal. Of course, there’s also morality for whatever that’s worth. History will judge this company differently. Now, [Armorer] Vleyda, do you have good news for me?”
A Gnoll woman did have good news for him. She was Balerosian-born and grinned as she presented him with a set of simple leather armor.
Blue leather. The instant Niers saw it, his eyes lit up.
“Aaaah. Tell me it’s magical.”
“Lord Astoragon, it is magical, but it has taken more months than I would like to make, yeah? I apologize greatly for the delays, but not every monster from the Dyed Lands was workable. I don’t want to touch the poisonous ones, the parasite ones, and invisible? I keep stabbing myself with my own pins!”
He smiled as Fraerlings poked their heads out of the laboratories and came running. How had a Tallfolk beaten them to the jump?
“So how have you beaten the other Great Companies and Fraerlings in processing the monster parts, Vleyda?”
She puffed out her chest and grinned.
“By being the best, yeah?”
“Isn’t she supposed to say ‘yes’, not ‘yeah’?”
Eirnos whispered to Niers. He shrugged.
“Dialects. Go on, Vleyda. What’s the trick?”
The Gnoll woman frowned at Eirnos and went on.
“There’s a weird trick to this hide. It doesn’t look that magic, especially the pieces from the weaker monsters, so most’ve my colleagues throw it out…yeah? Or just use it like regular armor. But I was watching, and I saw how even the lowest-level rabbit-things move. So I was wondering…where’s the magic?”
“Ah, we can answer some of that! These Dyed Lands monsters have tiny magical crystals forming in their bodies. Nothing like a large stone. Most of them are broken during dissections. The value isn’t really going to be worth the cost for you Tallfolk, but Fraerlings can definitely make use of them! The more magical the monster, the bigger these stones will be.”
One of the [Researchers] piped up. Vleyda nodded reasonably.
“True, true. But the Titan, he asked me to get as much value from these blue monsters as possible. So I took all the low-grade pelts and tried to get them to do anything. Magicore woven into the leather, enchanting, the lot. No good, nope.”
Niers was smiling and stroking his beard as he eyed the armor.
“I have an idea, and it’s damn stupid, but go on, Vleyda.”
She grinned with all her teeth, then showed him the armor.
“This is blue. All blue. Not a stitch of it isn’t; I had to get specially dyed string because it wasn’t blue enough. And when my volunteer puts it on, they can’t have anything that’s not blue. Even underthings. Volunteers?”
Niers turned and bellowed.
“Kissilt! Pants off!”
When the Drake came running and was told to drop everything, including his drawers, he swore and demanded a privacy screen. He complained as the armor went on.
“Hey, it chafes!”
“You’ll need blue underwear, yeah? But now—wait, those rings aren’t blue. Off!”
“But they’re my gear!”
“You heard her, Kissilt. Stop wasting our time!”
The annoyed Drake took his rings off, then even a bandaid off one claw. Only when the bandage fell to the ground did he take a step back, blink, and—
“Whoa. What the heck is—”
He sped up. Just for a second, then as he hopped left and right, the effect vanished. Came back on the sixth hop, and Kissilt swore as he leapt far too far right and slammed into Venaz and fell down. He got up, and the speed effect activated as he paced around. Just for a moment, then went off—Niers laughed.
“It’s color-based! This is so stupid!”
Vleyda was grinning.
“You’re going to need to have stylish warriors, Lord Astoragon, yeah? A few things, though. This is a low-grade piece of armor. I can’t control how the speed effect activates, so you’re sort of a hazard. The better the cut of leather, the less blue you need. So one of the big monsters and you can get away with a shirt. But the more of one color…”
“Damn, that’s annoying. We’ll have color-coded regiments.”
Niers was beaming ear-to-ear, and Eirnos exploded as the laboratory behind her went crazy.
“Are you telling me that every monster we just killed, thousands of them, are potentially able to make [Speed]-grade enchanted leather armor?”
The Titan’s grin was larger than he was. He snapped his fingers.
“Vleyda, this information is going to leak.”
“I’ve kept it as secret as I can, and my apprentices all have come with me, but the moment someone sees my armor, it’ll be clear, yeah, Lord Astoragon.”
“Right, then I’ll get on the speaking stone to the other Great Companies. You’re going to lock yourself away with all the people you want and start producing the best gear you can. Eirnos, I’d like all your best crafter-Fraerlings with her. Then we’ll begin advertising.”
 
——
 
The news about the Azure Beasts’ ability to be turned into innately enchanted armor—and the supposition that at least a few other colors would also be so valuable—certainly made it clear to Niers that the Dyed Lands were worth fighting.
But he’d known that from the beginning. He was an adventurer. Monsters were always worth something unless they were…exploding Crelers. Dead gods, even Acid Flies were worth money as Erin herself had found.
What annoyed him, what pissed him off, was this:
“Seer of Steel, you and I both know the Dyed Lands need stopping. I appreciate you sending eight legions to halt them with Maelstrom’s Howling from the north. I can’t help but notice you sent more with Tulm to the New Lands. I should have double that, and your best [Generals], not second-stringers you want to train up. And Jungle Tails. They’re after the Eyes of Baleros. Where’s my support?”
He was pushing the Dullahan later that day. No one knew about the value of the Azure Beasts yet, and the Titan was having a conversation few would ever dream of. One where he was speaking to the leader of the Great Company of Dullahans, person to person.
No politeness, no ceremony. Just a chat where Niers was pointedly stabbing a map with one finger as the Dullahan’s head rumbled back at him.
“WITH RESPECT, NIERS, IT FEELS LIKE YOUR WAR. WE ARE THE FURTHEST COMPANY FROM JUNGLE TAILS, AND SAVING YOUR TERRITORY IS NOT OUR INTEREST.”
“When they’re surrounding Invictel with an army of a hundred thousand Gorgons, I’ll remember that, Tindromeix! This isn’t them just taking revenge. I told you, the Eye has made it to Baleros. If they take out the Gazers…”
Then they have both Eyes, and we’re all in trouble. The Seer of Steel’s eyes flickered, but he replied.
“THE OTHER EYE WILL NOT BE TAKEN.”
“So you want to do with agents and operatives what you won’t do with armies. Why? Because Tulm’s planning to go all-in on the New Lands? Or are the Iron Vanguard thoughtless, short-sighted cowards? Because I could see that.”
The Seer of Steel frowned.
“I CAN SENSE YOU’RE UNHAPPY NIERS. I WOULD PREFER TO SPEAK TO FOLIANA FOR ONCE.”
“She’s eating a muffin or something. You’re speaking to me.”
The Seer of Steel made a grumbling sound and then flicked his eyes sideways.
“WHY AM I GETTING CHARRED? WHAT ABOUT MAELSTROM’S HOWLING?”
“Don’t worry, I’m going to give them a piece of my mind. Where’s my commitment?”
After a long pause, the Seer of Steel replied distantly.
“…IF AN EYE REACHES THE TEMPLES, THE IRON VANGUARD MARCHES. YOU HAVE MY WORD. AT THIS MOMENT, IT IS SIMPLY NOT IN OUR INTERESTS TO PUSH THE DYED LANDS. WE HAVE SENT LEGIONS. THE DYED LANDS ARE THOUSANDS OF MILES FROM DULLAHAN TERRITORY. WE MUST SAFEGUARD WHAT WE HAVE.”
They cut the connection after that, and Niers had to analyze it.
“It’s Seamwalkers. They’re still on-guard about that. Or it’s the New Lands and expectations they’re going to fight the Terandrian crusades. Or…Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard are going to war again.”
Possibly all of the above. He could have dropped the information about the monster parts being valuable in the conversation, and he was sure the Seer of Steel would have committed another six legions to the fight at once.
But Niers didn’t feel like doing that. He did feel better in a perverse way despite the negative call.
It meant he could feel alright about what was coming next. The Iron Vanguard was sometimes a friend you could count on, a steadfast enemy with honor and dignity. And sometimes you really wanted to play football with their stupid, detachable heads.
Something occurred to Niers before his call with Maelstrom’s Howling. He was signalling for Aria to come in when he groaned and realized something.
It’s the Dragons. It’s always Dragons with them. Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames. They might ignore any normal one, but never him.
Wonderful.
 
——
 
If the Iron Vanguard had, annoyingly, objectives that made sense, even if you disagreed with them, Maelstrom’s Howling, the representative of all Centaurs, was different.
The Seer of Steel shaped his company, but his was Dullahan-first. Maelstrom’s Howling was led by a personality, ruler-focused. That ruler was Aria Fellstrider’s mother.
Gwelin Fellstrider, the Hurricane herself. Her partner had been known as the Tempest—Maelstrom’s Howling really liked their wind-related themes, probably why they liked Ryoka Griffin so much. Gwelin was aging—well, all of them were—but she could be far more congenial and willing to stand with her foes based on like or dislike than the Seer of Steel.
They just had one problem…Niers had killed Torast Fellstrider. True, true, that was twenty-seven years back before either one had been leaders of their Great Companies. They’d put a lot of water between them, but they were never going to be, uh, friendly.
Aria didn’t even remember her father. She’d grown up with other Centaurs as step-fathers, but Torast…they told stories of the brash, charismatic leader of Maelstrom’s Howling and his battle against the smallest [Strategist]. Sometimes, Niers seemed to feel bad about it and addressed Gwelin with softer gloves when they met at formal events.
…Sometimes. Not now.
“So the reason Maelstrom’s Howling can’t get off their hooves and join the battle is because it’s ‘not fun’, Gwelin? Dead gods, the Lizardfolk have more spine than you do!”
“Don’t talk to me like that, Astoragon. If you want to talk cowards, have your pet squirrel go out there and kill some monsters. I haven’t seen her do anything since Jungle Tails nearly killed her.”
“Big words for someone who hasn’t even put on her horseshoes to see the Dyed Lands. Or can’t you make the run south in your old age?”
“Want me to bring a herd and find out, Astoragon?”
Aria was standing there, caught between outrage at how Niers was speaking to her mother, the leader of her company, and nerves. She kept trying to interrupt, but Niers was shouting back.
“Jungle Tails is going to come up and put the lot of you in saddles if you don’t fight them off! First it’s us, and the Eyes of Baleros company, then it’s you.”
“You’re the Titan of Baleros. You handle it. You’ve become the Great Company they were. If you can’t handle it, I’ll watch your company crumble and then sweep the board with the Seer of Steel.”
Gwelin’s voice had gone quiet, her crackling tone soft, instead of screaming. That was how you knew things were bad. Niers halted as Aria licked her lips. She didn’t remember the Nagatine Empire or the last time the Eyes had gone to Jungle Tails, but she’d heard stories.
“Mom, maybe—”
“Silence, Aria. The adults are talking.”
The Bannermare shut up. Niers glanced at her and bristled.
“Your daughter’s got better instincts than you, Gwelin. Fine, you want to see my company crumble? You can. Just know that if we die, you’re in a position where Jungle Tails can’t be stopped. When it comes to that, I’ll ask them to go for you first.”
“If you want our help, then pay for it. The Eyes won’t get to their temples. If it’s just your land, then—”
Niers disconnected the call, then kicked the scrying orb so hard it rolled off the pedestal and landed on the floor. Aria protested.
“Niers! You can’t speak to her like that! She’ll never help unless you ask—”
He pointed at her, and she glared, but Niers relaxed after a moment.
“I’m not a commander of a smaller company, Aria. Your mother’s my peer. I don’t care if Maelstrom’s Howling has endured for millenia. She forgets that. I’ve put my warnings out there. If your company and the Iron Vanguard want to ignore me, well, I tried.”
“Ever heard of tact?”
The Bannermare tossed her head, and Niers rolled his eyes.
“I know Centaurs. If I don’t go right back at her, she walks over me. If I come at her with any real fire, she gets offended I’m so prickly. You’re the person I was trying to convince. Talk your mother into helping out more, Aria. You’ve seen how bad the Dyed Lands can be. Believe me when I say this is just the first wave. Literally, the most desperate, low-tier monsters.”
She fidgeted, surprised by his sudden admission. He wanted her to convince…? Slightly flattered, the Bannermare trotted over to the map on the table.
“I saw the kid that Ryoka pulled out of there, and that alone means I’d rather burn all of the Dyed Lands, but you’re certain?”
“Let’s just say I have…intelligence from inside the color swarms.”
He spoke, and she eyed him.
“Even our best [Scouts] can’t get in far. Wait, I heard you hired a Named-rank team. Have they found worse?”
He shrugged, and she wished she could read him.
“Just take it on faith and my instincts, Aria. This is going to get worse. Right now, the ‘blue’ wave is slackening. Green’s coming at us next, and that’s going to be annoying…”
“All my [Strategists] say that we’ve done so much damage that the colors are receding. They’re measuring the amount they push out and fall back, and it’s like the tides. They’re retreating.”
“Oh, sure. They burned the energy of this lot out. That just means ‘this wave’ is weakening. When your first army gets smashed up, what do you do as Maelstrom’s Howling?”
Send fifteen more if we want to. Aria didn’t like that line of thinking. She protested.
“The Dyed Lands aren’t that big—”
“They couldn’t have sustained this many monsters already from a sheer geographical perspective. They’re bigger on the inside. I’m telling you, Aria. Talk to your mother. I’ll give you as long as I can, but if you don’t, you’re forcing my hand.”
“To do what, exactly?”
Niers stood over his maps, eyes flicking up to her. He smiled, and she grew nervous despite the fact that she’d seen him beaten and bested over the years.
“Something unpleasant.”
 
——
 
The Forgotten Wing company kept up their offensive against the Dyed Lands’ blue wave. In fact, they began pushing a bit. Not just moving the frontlines forwards to hold the monsters, but making incursions into their territory. Striking deeper before withdrawing. Niers had their formations advance, still under the three-colored lights he insisted on using.
The result was more fighting. Eirnos could not see why he was doing this unless it was to harvest as many of the blue monsters as possible for their hides and train his forces up. Certainly, his ‘full-board’ army was fighting with extreme cohesion. And the day did come when her forces were called upon.
Not for a full battle on the front. Rather, [Strategist] Vler contacted her with a priority message in the middle of the night.
“Iuncuta Eirnos! A force of Azure Beasts has broken out of our containment and outrun all our interception groups! They are bearing down on the village of Xivdees! Just northwest of Illgrem!”
She cursed as she leapt out of bed.
“Does the Titan have forces there?”
“A garrison, but not enough to halt them. He is formally requesting the combined forces of Fraerlings to destroy and repel the monster incursion!”
Fraerlings were one of the few groups that could potentially make it. Eirnos was calling for every flying mount they had and teleportation spells in moments. She raced for teams of Tallguard, who had been waiting for this moment, and they flew.
The village of Xivdees wasn’t that big, but then neither was the group of wounded Azure Beasts. Barely a hundred of them had performed a nigh-suicidal rush to bypass one of the armies containing them.
But a hundred…for Fraerlings, it was an avalanche of bodies. Eirnos landed as she barked orders.
“Tallguard, take up formations around the village! Rooftops, and I want Rozcal’s Crelerbane ready to drop on top of them!”
The heavily-armored Fraerlings would distract the Azure Beasts. Eirnos also found a young Selphid running towards her, panting.
“Are you the Fraerling reinforcements? I am [Captain] Ygre, and I have two dozen soldiers at your disposal, Iuncuta! We’ve fortified as best we can, but if you need us to shift them—”
When she realized she could have him move the simple wooden and dirt barricades, Iuncuta tasked Shoike with that. She was surprised; this garrison would have been wiped out if her people hadn’t arrived. But the Selphid, for all his clear nerves, was smiling.
“The Titan of Baleros wasn’t going to leave us out to dry, Iuncuta. I knew we’d have help.”
How many times had that belief in the Titan, that promise, gone unanswered? Eirnos’ jaw clenched.
With the Tallguard, she swore she’d make good on that promise. They had barely minutes; the Azure Beasts came for the village, trying to devour the frightened inhabitants in their homes.
It was—
 
——
 
“A mess. How’d you fare, Iuncuta?”
“Suboptimally, Niers.”
The Fraerling blinked at him the next day, and she could still hear the curious silence, feel the pop in her ears.
Vortex Bolts firing and creating black holes that sucked everything in. Fraerlings tensely calling out.
“Crelerbane Armor is engaged. Climb them—”
“They’re moving too fast to hit, Iuncuta.”
“They’re breaking into the houses. Tallguard Squad 1, activate your Signim! [Mages], [Mass Slow] spells! Now! Get me—”
It wasn’t her first battle. But defending a bunch of Tallfolk? That was new. Eirnos was unhurt. The same could not be said for her command. Niers put down the brief report she’d written on the flight back.
“Three deaths.”
“It’s an unacceptable number, of course. Without homing shots, the Vortex Bolts had to be deployed as denial-of-area attacks. When using Signim, Tallguard were committed to combat where their survival could not be guaranteed. I will be submitting combat analyses to all the cities, and if you have any commentary on how to adjust our tactics, I will accept them.”
Three brave Tallguard. Eirnos waited, part of her not wanting to know if there was some tactic that would have saved their lives, but Niers just read the report again, then pushed it back.
“Given the amount of time you had, I think it’s within acceptable ranges, Eirnos. Not pleasant. I’ll give the report more thought later, but I’d call it as close to optimal as we’re likely to get. Now…tell me frankly, how is morale? How likely are the cities willing to engage in this level of attrition, or are any deaths beyond the pale?”
He sat forwards at his desk, and Eirnos’ jaw tightened.
“I regard this as a personal failure, Niers.”
“Well, my Great Company loses more people on garrison duty where they never see combat, Eirnos. I’m asking whether I can count on the Fraerfolk to keep doing this.”
She had to actually think on this, which annoyed her, but in the end, she came back with—
“The cities understand this is an operation against the Dyed Lands themselves. Mass-casualties would be considered…largely unacceptable. But deaths in the line of duty would be understood, if shocking, I think.”
“The Tallguard will need to recruit more than their usual. Expect more deaths, Iuncuta.”
He was not unsympathetic, but she felt that annoying sense he was treating the Fraerlings like a rookie group. Unused to bleeding. She wished that didn’t ring slightly true; Tallguard tried to never lose anyone.
A war. He was more worried about whether they’d abandon him than deaths.
 
——
 
As it turned out, Niers did have feedback for her. When they met later, after the dead had been sent back to their cities, Niers had a proposal for Eirnos, but the opposite of what she wanted.
“No Vortex Bolts. My outline is to have one backup squad armed with them for emergencies, but I’d prefer Elemental Bolts. One or even two tiers lower.”
“That will increase attrition rates, Niers.”
“Yes. But I know how fast Vortex Bolts are manufactured. Unless there’s been some revolution there, supplies will not last the duration of this campaign. My proposal is to arm all Tallguard thusly. Secondly, I would like you to choose the city with the best capabilities and request that they cease all other manufacturing for the war effort besides Elemental Bolts. Two cities, ideally.”
“Are you mad? Allotments aside, the cost in alchemical and magical supplies—”
He interrupted her.
“Supply lines. They’ll need them set up city-to-city. Feed them all into the best one and we’ll have ammunition sorted.”
Now, Eirnos was getting that prickling feeling on her back. She’d been sent to keep an eye on Niers, but this…
“You want to dictate the output of cities?”
“Should I not? Isn’t that under your authority?”
In theory, yes, but the idea of that kind of order was unprecedented to Eirnos, and she said so. Niers’ response was calm.
“We’re at war, Iuncuta. This is good strategy. If the Fraerling cities are not willing to do this, I’d rather not put the proposal out at all. I trust you know how they’ll respond.”
He was watching her cautiously. A man appraising his allies and seeing how hard he could push them. Eirnos folded her arms as she imagined the fighting, the cities who would balk, the justifiable fear they would become part of a coalition.
The knowledge that Jungle Tails had hunted down their kind. She weighed this, eyes closed, before speaking.
“Is this what you did with your cities before the Tallfolk attacked?”
Her eyes opened the slightest fraction so she could see his face. Niers stared down at the documents in front of him. He never lifted his head.
“Yes. This time, I trust you’ll hide better. Can I count on your people, Eirnos?”
She flipped her eyepatch up and rubbed at the empty eyesocket for a while before replying.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Three more full-scale incursions had come and gone before anything changed. Fighting inwards, hauling bodies back to behind the lines, resetting formations as reserves replaced exhausted mercenaries who cheered, devoured food, drank, and fell asleep. Days of rest—then another push forwards. It almost became a routine before Niers met a wall of the Azure Beasts on the fourth push and gave the order.
“All forces, advance!”
He pursued the wave of blue monsters he’d just broken into the blue haze. They expected the Titan to stop, but the order to halt never came. And then—then Balsam was swearing at the Titan.
The tricolor lights shone into the blue haze as the entire world of colors shifted. The tribe of blue reacted to the Forgotten Wing’s presence like a storm. They drew back, and Niers exhaled.
“Ah, that’s good.”
Then they were on them, bursting out of the blue haze, leaping wolves, charging beasts, diving mantas and birds, and he was giving orders.
“Skeldriv, [Thorn Formation]—Iuncuta, give me aerial support!”
His army was engaged, using the tricks they had learned against the enraged monsters, but Niers flung up a hand. He was using his [Battlefield Awareness] to survey the horde coming at him. Ensuring he wasn’t being flanked. Then he chopped a hand.
“Make way for the Shoreaxes!”
At last, the order came. Relieved Lizardfolk leapt aside as the units that Niers had held back all this time strode forwards. The Shoreaxes carried massive battleaxes and walked in heavy armor.
Gilded horns, scars from their battle.
Minotaurs.
Venaz strode with them, expression set behind his helmet. If he had been surprised to find so many Minotaurs in the Forgotten Wing, he had quickly fallen in with this unit. They had been waiting patiently, drilling and practicing while the Lizardfolk did the fighting.
Minotaurs. Finding more than one or two Minotaurs in any force besides the Empire of Minos was nearly unheard of aside from maybe Rhir. But the Titan had the Shoreaxes and a few more units.
For defeating Queravia, the Gambler of Fates, and his efforts against the King of Destruction and Goblin King, he had been awarded a great honor by the King of Minos: the right to hire any Minotaurs who wished to join his Great Company. They didn’t even have to be Beriad. They were, like every species who joined his company, just mercenaries.
But these ones had seen more battle and strife than most armies of Minos. Niers himself advanced towards the front lines and shouted.
“Strategist Venaz!”
The Minotaur jumped and glanced at him. Niers pointed ahead.
“You once told me that a company of Minotaurs with axes could face and defeat any foe, overcome any obstacle! Show me.”
He saw Venaz’s eyes widen behind his helm, then he lifted his diamond greatsword overhead. The Minotaur roared.
“[Unit: Enhanced Strength]. [Unstoppable Advance]! [Break Their Morale]!”
Niers added his Skills.
“[Vanguard of Terror]! [Giants on the March]. Wipe them out.”
The Minotaurs moved forwards, and they were a foot taller with the first step. Another foot with the second—Balsam swore and moved back as he fell into shadow, and the Lizardfolk began cheering.
Niers watched, heart like thunder, as the Centaurs under Jirem stampeded, calling to be unleashed like their peers. He knew the Fraerlings were staring at the giant Tallfolk who met the Azure Beasts and threw them back with the first swings of their battleaxes. One of the charging rhino-hippos hit a Minotaur and slowed—then four Minotaurs threw the beast backwards, and he saw the animal try to run.
Sometimes you had a clever strategy, a novel trick. Sometimes—and sometimes, the Titan knew, you just hit the enemy as hard as you could.
The Shoreaxes kept swinging, shrugging off the claws trying to drag them down as long as the Skills empowering them lasted. When their momentum slowed, Niers ordered Skeldriv forwards. The Armortraitors were firing nonstop as he tore westwards, going against the ‘flow’ of the blue color.
“Push! [Battlemages]! Grand Magus Veern, give me everything you’ve got. Clear the field!”
They advanced. Step-by-step when the Azure Beasts attacked, but as they broke the waves and inflicted casualties, the monsters fell back, and the Forgotten Wing company advanced for up to half an hour before the next wave came, and they halted to break it apart. Not into the Dyed Lands, but westwards.
Niers could see the blue thinning, giving way to that green wave that would be next. He heard his speaking stone chirp as he rotated in another group of his rear lines.
“Keep Captain Balsam on the front. I need his Skills. Vler, what?”
“Titan, you’re on the news. Scrying spells activating. Want me to block?”
“Don’t bother. Grand Magus, keep those [Light] spells up. Venaz, another wave! Break it!”
 
——
 
The astonishing advance of the Forgotten Wing company seemed to catch even the Dyed Lands monsters off-guard. But after four hours of on-and-off fighting, Niers had kept one force in his army completely in reserve.
The Centaurs. Jirem’s people were baying for blood. A few of them had even ridden closer to demand to be used; even Marian was tossing her head from her observing position next to the [Commander].
Only Jirem was staring at Niers, and the Titan met his eyes again as they broke through the Azure Beasts and into the green.
“Parasites in the air! Fliers, pull back! Fullhelms, forwards! Veern, [Flamewall] spells! Push the walls forwards and incinerate everything!”
His [Mages] were running out of mana, and his people, Jirem’s group excepting, were getting tired. Plus, Niers knew that the Azure Beasts were forming up behind him. He had forces keeping the area clear, but their window was closing.
However…the green wave wasn’t strong here. His company only had to advance three miles, burning the green parasites and letting the Dullahans cut through them, before he saw what he wanted.
Cleared ground, an exit to the Dyed Lands’ monsters. Niers had only gone a bit into the monster’s territory. Then he’d cut left, at a right angle, and gone…
Straight out the other side. Into another no-man’s land, where charred ground baked black showed him a killzone where the Jade Swarms were being kept at bay. No real fortifications; with an enemy this dense and numerous, you just destroyed everything and put your forces under all-encompassing barrier spells.
“Like…that.”
The first glimmer of glowing half-bubbles of light in the distance caught Niers’ eyes. Instantly, he lifted a spyglass and sighted down it. He saw, in the distance, a group of very surprised figures pointing his way.
They were bunkered down, [Mages] mostly, with emergency groups of warriors and archers, but a lot of [Mages]. And Medusae; their eye-powers would be invaluable against this foe. Lamias, Lizardfolk…no other species.
“Wait a second. Those aren’t our lines. Those are—Jungle Tails!”
A junior [Tactician] in the command tent had come to the same realization as the forces who’d sighted Niers’ army. He smiled as Eirnos spun, and then he turned his head.
“Commander Jirem.”
“Sir?”
The Centaur had snapped to attention the moment he’d seen the Nagas. Niers pointed a finger.
“You are to rendezvous with Strategist Evergloa. We’ll have her location and details sent directly. Remember your code-phrase to confirm information sent and received. Take your riders. I want this frontline gone. Hit their supply lines and then break. Your discretion.”
“Sir? But that’s Jungle Tails’ blockade against the Dyed Lands—”
Marian was peering ahead, and Niers snorted.
“And they’ve been so good about not attacking our forces either. Like this is some genteel war. Jirem! On my signal!”
He lifted his hand, and the Lizardfolk [Mages] were chanting, preparing spells. They, no doubt, had enough firepower to blow his army to bits in case of emergencies. Niers’ finger stretched out.
“[Battlefield: Even Ground – No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy]. Centaurs, charge.”
Across the ground, every spell and barrier winked out. The mostly-[Mage] forces froze as Jirem blew a horn. At first, the Centaurs streamed forwards slowly, at a trot, then their hooves became a thunder as they lowered their spears, began whooping and screaming. Faster and faster, breaking up into groups to hit the Lizardfolk from the front, the sides, an avalanche of flesh and metal and death—
Niers Astoragon flung up a hand as Lizardfolk began to stream after the Centaurs.
“All forces: fall back. We’re done here. Do not advance or you’ll lose your Skills.”
His Skill affected both sides. Niers lifted his fist up and whirled it in a circle. He turned back—then glanced over his shoulder.
“Looks like we pissed them off at last. Full march. Something’s coming.”
He peered sideways at Eirnos.
“[Dangersense] is going to probably go off in five minutes or less. I want us back at our defensive lines in two hours.”
He was wrong; the [Dangersenses] went off in two minutes.
 
——
 
Captain Balsam didn’t see the monster at first. Or rather, he did see monsters; just smaller ones. The green was following them, and it was pissed.
“Keep moving! Keep moving!”
He was howling at the Lizardfolk around him as Skeldriv ran. They were fighting a running battle; the damn flying Jade Snakes kept landing on them and biting, but that wasn’t the real danger.
The real danger was the infested monsters, who threw themselves forwards. Even Azure Wolves; they looked like wiggling balls of worms, but still had the unnatural speed. He even saw some Lizardfolk and Dullahans who’d clearly been infested, mindlessly swinging weapons.
Were they using Skills? Were they alive? He roared as a snake-thing landed on his face and tried to bite, eat its way into his brain or something.
It struck into his throat, and he gagged as it bit. He closed his jaws, chomped the thing to pieces, and spat it out.
“Gaaah! That stings! Keep. Moving!”
They were getting overrun despite the Titan’s Skills. Something was behind them, and there were big, big snake-things attacking from behind. Snakes far taller than he was, rearing up and swallowing the Dullahans and Lizardfolk.
“Balsam!”
He saw Plaxima’s Gorgons trying to cut some of the giant snake-things apart. But they were getting swarmed—he sprinted back, cursing.
“Vinegars at the rear, turn and fight!”
The new Lizardfolk who’d joined his company turned and hesitated, but the sight of their captain charging at the snakes made them join him. They hacked, stabbed, and fell back, running, as Gorgons disengaged.
Plaxima was holding off the jaws of a snake bigger than she was. For all her size and her six arms—Balsam swore as he got a good look at this strange Jade-monster.
What the hell is that? It’s not a snake! It was the same in that it was a long, wiggling tendril, but it didn’t have that iconic, flared snake’s head. Nor was its mouth at the end of its body. Rather, it was somewhat down from the end, which was splitting outwards into dozens of mini-snakes, and all of them had mouths—
Seamwalker-ish. Balsam saw the main mouth and all the little heads trying to bite Plaxima. But it had no…teeth. Just a wet, oozing opening. Somehow, that was way worse.
“Balsam—help—”
He slashed the snake-tendril with his enchanted axe, then recoiled; his blow made it tremble, but didn’t cut its smooth, scaleless body.
“The hell—?”
“It doesn’t get hurt! I can’t—”
“Uh—[Super Punch]!”
Balsam’s punch tossed the snake-thing off Plaxima. She recoiled, and the thud made her lower body leave the ground for a second.
“What the—”
Her mouth was open, exposing her fangs, as she turned to him. Balsam just pointed.
“That was my best Skill! Run!”
They ran as Dullahans charged around them, all hampered by the huge, intensely hard-to-damage worms. That’s what they were, Balsam realized. Worms. They weren’t that fast, thankfully, but he realized with the other Jade monsters harrying them…
“We’re not going to get out of here. Call the Titan for help!”
Plaxima had lost her speaking stone. Balsam glanced over his shoulder and swore. He didn’t know where Niers was. He reached for his side.
“Keep going, and tell him we’re being caught. I’ve got an emergency scroll—”
He turned, and she grabbed at the speaking stone.
“This is Captain Plaxima of Skeldriv, we’re being caught by some kind of monsters with impervious hides. We need bailout—”
She glanced over her shoulder as Balsam unfurled something. What kind of scroll did he—she heard him draw in breath.
“[Incineration Dragonbreath]!”
Then her hair, the scales on her back, and her armor caught on fire. The Gorgon screamed, rolling, and someone yanked her up.
“Damnit. You okay, Plaxima? Stop staring, you idiots, and run!”
Plaxima swore at him.
“You hit us, idiot!”
She was amazed he wasn’t cooked himself; smoke was coming off Balsam’s armor and out of his mouth as he coughed and hacked.
“Sorry! C’mon, let’s go—”
He lifted her up in his arms, all four hundred pounds of her with her armor on, and charged past the Dullahans. Plaxima clung to his shoulders, speechless.
So that’s why he’s one of our best [Captains]! Did they issue scrolls like that to veteran officers or had the Titan given it to him special? Because she wanted one of those. However, after ten minutes, Balsam let her go, and she had to slither forwards; the super-worms were still coming. She hoped that [Healer]’s note saying he was clean of Yellow Rivers was accurate, because she owed him that drink.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon grunted when he heard Balsam had pulled his rearguard out of the fire…with fire, probably. That’s why he’d called for the man.
He was setting up a welcome for the green monsters, which included a full pass of Oldblood Drakes, a fresh group of [Mages] with fire, and even a pair of his famous Chess Towers.
The mobile fortifications spat a rain of death down and wiped out most of the Jade Swarm coming his way…except for the worms. Those were different.
They died, but they died hard. Tier 4 magic barely did the damage it should, and anything lower than that seemed to utterly fail. Enchanted blades, crossbow bolts…Niers grunted as he watched the last of his forces, including Balsam, sprint behind his lines.
“Iuncuta, mind firing some Vortex Bolts? I think this is a good use case for them.”
“I concur. Tallguard! Get me a [Sniper].”
The Vortex Bolt killed the nearest burning worm neatly, but Niers didn’t want to waste them on the worms; there were hundreds. Instead, he had his [Mages] firing spells to figure out which ones did any damage before finding out how to harm them.
“Shoreaxes, go over and bully that one. [Mark Target]. I need more Centaurs. Give me a lure away from us.”
The worms were…not very smart. Centaurs galloping in front of them attracted them away from his forces while one was lured over, and Venaz and some Minotaurs strode forward. A minute later, Niers had a report.
“Professor, my blade cuts these things astonishingly well. Relic-class weapons do work. But we can kill them, just not fast. They might not get scratched, but hitting it hard enough ruptures all its insides. This one vomited blood and died.”
“Excellent, Venaz. Alright, bring the lure in, and let’s give your arms a workout. I want cloud spells…”
Cloud spells didn’t really seem to work in all the ways he wanted; the worms didn’t seem to be phased by a lack of vision because he couldn’t see any eyes, but they moved slower in the smog, suggesting they had to breathe or something. Meanwhile, the Shoreaxes and Gorgons winnowed the group, beating them to death one-by-one.
But they just…kept…coming. And they seemed to be getting bigger too. They’d already started out massive, but Niers’ suspicions were confirmed as the [Dangersenses] got worse. He heard Peki shouting.
“Professor! We see the main monster! It’s a worm-ball!”
At first, he thought it was just another Peki-description since she was bad with words, but it was actually quite apt. The cause of these worms was, in fact, a giant ball of worms, all seemingly interconnected or growing around a huge center mass. It was massive, the size of one of the Chess Towers in height, and the primary worms coming off it…he swore.
“Alright, back it up. Disengage and fall back! It’s coming at us slow—Medusae, buy us more time. We just ran into the green’s apex predator. At least, in this area.”
No one had reported anything like this, and Niers instantly rated it as Named-rank…or worse. He’d have taken a hundred Hydras over this thing. But he had wanted to meet it.
“Looks like we made more of an impression on green than blue, sir.”
Cameral was panting, having come with reserve forces, and Niers shrugged.
“Well, that’s to be expected.”
“Why…?”
Niers didn’t answer. He was drumming his fingers on his pants.
“Okay, we do this conventionally. Every Dullahan unit is to retreat to Fallback Point 2. Wounded likewise. Just for fun, give me a [Long-Ranged Volley] of crossbow bolts on it…now.”
Crossbows fired, and he raised his spyglass.
“Yep. [Flamestrike]?”
A flash of fire; the thing moved through it without even pausing. Niers sighed.
“[Grand Lightning]?”
After his eyes cleared from the flash, Niers tried one last time.
“Iuncuta Eirnos, Vortex Bolt, if-you-please.”
This time, he was really hoping for a result, but the Tier 6 spell detonated, and he saw the all-consuming black void open on one of the worms, close, and…
“Hairballs and cats.”
That came from Eirnos. For the first time, the Fraerlings were visibly disconcerted. Niers spoke calmly.
“To all command and anyone watching: Vortex Bolts, a Tier 6 spell, leave no damage. I repeat, no damage. This is a Named-rank threat. Fall back.”
It wasn’t fast. It wasn’t quick. It certainly wasn’t that smart. But it did not stop, and the worms it kept disgorging advanced as the Forgotten Wing retreated. The one mercy was that neither Jade Swarms or Azure Beasts followed; Niers had a few of the green blasted from afar, and the blue seemed to have visibly drawn back in the face of this monster.
“Sir, General Diomedes is days away from your location, but he wishes to inform you he can pick up the pace. I have bound spells ready, and three Named-rank adventurers have volunteered to join your forces if you can delay it…should I begin evacuating cities and garrisons?”
Niers glanced at his speaking stone, then up at the sky.
“You sound stressed, Vler.”
“You’re grinning, Lord Astoragon. You have a plan?”
“I have a plan. It might not work, but I have hopes. We’re pulling back to Jikneq Forest; it’s barely a hop and a skip from here. Get me the Sea Shepherds on a speaking stone, at their convenience. No rush on that. Now, let’s make our students earn their levels, eh?”
He had Cameral, Venaz, Kissilt, and Jekilt running a retreat while Umina picked off worms abandoning the main swarm. Niers’ forces were retreating just slowly enough for the main worm thing to follow, but it meant they had to fight the progressively-tougher worms. Niers watched, using his Skills sporadically, but he knew they were all watching him, waiting.
“Ah, Captain Balsam. Glad to see you made it. Any input on fighting the foe?”
Balsam was marching past him, covered in soot and blood. Not his own. He glared.
“They’re tough. Some escaped, uh, even my emergency scroll.”
“Really? Even the emergency scroll I gave you?”
“Yessir.”
Niers grimaced as the Minotaurs fell back, unable to bludgeon one of the worms to death. Now they were reaching the edges of the forest. He glanced at his war map.
“Ah, Jirem’s still rampaging. I gave him doubled supplies for a reason, you know.”
Balsam eyed Niers’ card-face as the Titan stood there on the edge of the forest. Soldiers were streaming out of it, fleeing the worms knocking over trees, and when the worm-thing got to the edge…both grimaced.
“Ew. Is it…corrupting the trees?”
It seemed to be literally eating them, then spitting them out with green goo attached. Niers sighed.
“Either it’s laying spawn or just turning them green. That’s gross. Iuncuta, Captain Shoike, Rozcal, greetings. Enjoying seeing a real monster up close?”
The three commanders were not happy. Rozcal was fingering his battleaxe as Shoike kept ordering Tallguard to maintain positions around the worm ball. Eirnos was visibly tensed.
“If you launch your artillery spells, I can direct them like at the Gathering Citadel, Niers. This is the worst monster I’ve ever seen.”
Niers shrugged as Balsam drank some water and spat out more smoke, thumping his chest.
“It’s…up there for me, but it’s not very threatening. The slowness is a huge weakness. I suspect it’s way tougher than I want. I’m glad everyone gets to see it on scrying orb. They see the threat, now.”
He was too casual. Rozcal interrupted, face red with adrenaline.
“Niers. Say the word and I’ll try to cut it up. I’ve got Adamantium, and at least we’d know if—”
“No, Rozcal. I have two suspicions. Damn it, I wish Wil were here. I could test his sword…Venaz, front and center!”
The Minotaur came running over, and Niers nodded.
“Find the biggest worm you can in the trees and hit it with your sword once. Don’t get cute, don’t try to kill it. Just cut it. If you hear crackling, drop everything and run. I don’t have a long window.”
The mass was fully in the forest, now, and Niers muttered.
“I’m going to call it…the Ball of Worms. No, that’s terrible. The Jade Wormmass. The…”
“Are you naming it? We have to find out its weakness! It will keep reproducing unless we take it out now! What is your plan?”
Shoike was exploding with nerves, but Niers just kept watching as the monster entered what he judged to be around the center of the forest. He raised his speaking stone to his lips.
“Just waiting, Patrol Captain. Alright. Veern, mass-teleport anyone who’s in there out now! Flamecloths, front and center. Light it up.”
“Light up…?”
Shoike turned to Niers, then to the forest. Balsam’s head rose, and he exhaled slowly. Niers just stood there. For a few seconds, he saw and heard nothing, but…
It wasn’t the biggest forest around. Baleros had lots. But this one wasn’t attached to a larger forest or a lot of greenery, and he could see the ground around it had been denuded of plantlife. For miles, in fact.
Miles and miles. All the work the [Soldiers] had been doing, and he’d needed thousands of hands to pick grass and shovel dirt. Even then, he decided he needed a few [Rainfall] spells in the surrounding areas.
After all—when he saw the red flames rising from the center of the forest, the edges, they spread fast. Very fast. A tree in front of them went up like a new alchemical match, leaves, wood turning into pure flames.
“What the—”
Shoike recoiled from the heat as Rozcal swore, and Eirnos turned to look at Niers. Just look. The Titan murmured.
“You’ve got to prep only a few areas with enough oil, dry wood, and drying spells. Then, once you get it big enough, the rest goes pretty easy, even in monsoon season.”
“You—you planned for—you’re burning—”
The Patrol Captain was horrified. One of the few things that Fraerlings feared beyond overwhelming numbers of Tallfolk or monsters was a forest fire. You couldn’t control that blaze. Couldn’t put it out.
But you could use it. The Titan saw the flames sweeping through the forest, slower than he wanted, but fast enough. Within moments, the heat was forcing everyone way, way further back, and the [Mercenaries] running from the forest were gasping. Pointing.
“I don’t see any birds or animals fleeing the fire. What did you do?”
It was Rozcal who noticed that first. He turned to Niers, and the Titan spoke.
“I sent for a [Druid] at the start of the campaign. They evacuated the forest.”
And they were as happy about it as a man with a Creler on their ass, but they did it. Niers had prepared this card for just this moment. He was glad it was a slow-moving monster; an Azure Beast would never have held still this long.
The only question now was whether or not this worked. The flames were roaring upwards now, and the sound…
Oh, the sound of a forest burning was a roar like no other. You could probably see it for countless miles. Niers coughed as the smoke reached him. The heat…
Beyond a Tier 6 spell, probably. The smoke, suffocating. And yet—he saw movement in the forest.
The first of the worms burst out and writhed on the ground. It was visibly burnt, green skin scorched, but it wasn’t dying—yet. It was spitting out green blood, and Niers grunted.
“Vortex Bolts, snipe those bastards. I don’t really want to take any alive.”
Shoike herself took the shot. There were only a few patches of forest left unscathed. Niers saw another shape moving, and Shoike aimed—
Venaz burst out of the forest with a pair of Minotaurs, blurring under his [Haste] spell as he ran, back aflame. Veern sprayed him with water, and Niers shouted.
“Venaz, you idiot! I told you to run when you heard crackling!”
“I got lost, sir.”
The Minotaur was shamefaced, but he showed Niers something—a hunk of still-pulsating flesh. The Minotaur panted as he pointed at the dead worm, who hadn’t even been fully killed by the Vortex Bolt, just mangled.
“My sword works. Cuts through—I won’t say perfectly, but it does cut as well as a steel blade on a regular hide.”
“Interesting. Flamecloth Commander, front-and-center!”
Another figure ran up, and Niers nodded at a Stitch-woman with the weirdest body anyone had ever seen. She looked…well, if an Earther had been present, they would have said ‘rubbery’. Her skin was too-smooth, glossy, and thick. She and her entire command were heavyset and wore masks over their faces.
“Lord Astoragon?”
“I can see trees falling. The main body is still alive in there. I need your forces to slow it down.”
In that inferno? Are you mad? Cameral stared at Niers, then remembered the name of this unit.
Flamecloths. Stitch-folk made with a certain cloth and who used one element and one element alone.
Flames. They were a terror against their own species, and Niers had created this group for this purpose. He saw the Stitch-woman salute grimly.
“We can only try to keep it back, sir.”
“That will do, but I have two things to offer you, Commander. The first is that I need you to paint every single weapon…no, damnit, it’ll just burn off. Grand Magus Veern, I need you right here!”
The [Mage] came running over.
“Lord Astoragon, I am exhausted—”
“Color spells. The highest-tier you have. I don’t think it has to be green, but just in case, make it green. Iuncuta, your [Mages] too. And a [Flame Resistance] spell on Venaz and Captain Balsam, the best you’ve got.”
The Drake had been trying to sneak off, but he froze when Niers spoke and glared, silently begging—too late. Niers spoke crisply.
“My suspicion is this: these monsters operate under color-rules. There are spells that have the same effects, and my students found historical examples of other monsters with the same rules as well. Only a strong ‘color’ can harm them. That’s why Venaz’s blade does so well. And perhaps…”
The Minotaur raised the diamond greatsword of Serept in his hands. He blinked at the beautiful blade, made by the half-Giant [King], and whispered.
“The Windblade of Serpisel. Did he know that colors were important when he forged them?”
“Probably. The most vivid colors you’ve got, Magus. Flamecloths, engage. Captain Balsam, just keep Venaz alive.”
“I’d better get paid well for this, Lord Astoragon.”
The Drake glared at Niers, his sapphire gaze sparking with genuine anger. Niers beckoned him over.
“I’ll pay you this much to keep my favorite Minotaur student alive—”
He pretended to whisper in the Drake’s earhole.
“Your illusion’s slipping. Right eye.”
Balsam closed his right eye that looked a tiny bit…red. He nodded at Niers and jerked his helm down lower. The Titan stood back.
“Keep it in the flames.”
The Stitch-folk entered the forest as the crashing and billowing sparks rose higher. Niers stood there, hands folded behind his back, wondering how long a forest like this took to grow. He spoke to himself just once.
“Colors. We’ll need color-based experts to fight in the heart of the Dyed Lands if more such monsters arise. Shame I don’t know any color-based experts.”
He laughed to himself. Just laughed until he noticed Cameral glancing at him quizzically. Because the Dullahan probably knew most of Niers’ irregular forces in the area, and there weren’t color-based experts on the books. Niers walked over and patted the Dullahan’s hand.
“That’s just a bit of humor, Cameral, lad. If this doesn’t work, we’re all running, by the way.”
He waited, eyes on the inferno.
 
——
 
The Adventurer’s Guild, after some fierce debate, decided to call the monster ‘Endless Worms’ after a vote on television. They classified it as Named-rank+, not quite acknowledging if it was a calamity in and of itself.
But then, the world didn’t get to see if it could level cities without being stopped, because the forest fire burned and burned, and its spawn died.
A few made it to the edges of the forest, but they were already badly burned. The largest still needed finishing off, but Venaz’s greatsword and Fraerling-grade weapons could kill it, especially when painted green.
The main monster…no.
The Flamecloth’s Commander had to march out of the fire twice—speaking stones just burnt up in the heat—to report.
“The beast cannot be harmed, sir! Strategist Venaz’s sword barely cuts it.”
“Well, that’s not good. Any signs it’s burning up?”
“No, Lord Astoragon, but it is moving slower.”
“Keep it in the heart of the flames as long as you can, Commander.”
The Flamecloths played a game of deadly tag in the inferno that forced even them to rotate out due to the heat. However, Niers hadn’t just been banking on the flames to do the job of killing this beast for him.
Some monsters were immune to non-magical damage. Some monsters regenerated almost anything. But you know what he had found most monsters did, Seamwalkers excepted?
They breathed. A forest-fire was the place where oxygen barely existed. The fighters in the blaze had to wear enchanted masks that provided them with air and kept the smoke from killing them.
Invulnerable or not, the worm-mass slowed and slowed as the flames finally died out. By the time only smoke was rising, Niers could see it, a slumped, sooty-green mound in the middle of naught but ash.
Presumably, it would soon wake up and start killing again; it was too much to hope that mere oxygen-deprivation would kill it that neatly. So Niers rasped.
“Right. I need a barrier and a void of air around it. Right now, and this entire area is now a containment zone.”
Fraerlings led the spellcasting, and there was a pop as they sucked the oxygen out of the area, activating a massive circle they’d laid while the fires were burning. Niers exhaled when, after half an hour of watching, the worms failed to stir.
Then he turned to the [Reporter] who was waiting to interview him. His voice was shot from shouting, but he had a report from Jirem that he was advancing and raiding across Jungle Tails and that he’d effectively collapsed their front lines. Add that to this victory, even if he wasn’t sure the monster was dead, and Niers managed a smile.
“—As you can see, we have this thing contained, even if I rather suspect it might not fully die even if we keep it in there for months. We’ll see. If we can hack it up, or kill it, we will. But our main goal is to keep it immobilized.”
And to see if it’s valuable in any way. That hide could make amazing armor…if Vleyda can process it.
This was also a good time to mention the value of the armor since any idiot with eyes would instantly wonder if they could use that wormhide as armor. Assuming it wasn’t infested. Niers cleared his throat and went on.
“I’m going to make some claims based purely on my instincts as a [Strategist] and 2nd-in-Command of the Forgotten Wing company, if I may to my audience. Firstly: each color probably has a super-monster like that in its ranks. Secondly—there may be more. Many more in the Dyed Lands themselves. This is the real threat of Baleros, and I’ll pit this against any monster coming out of the New Lands—just so long as you give me popcorn and make sure it’s nowhere near civilization when they fight.”
He smiled into the camera, then turned his head. Cameral had a glowing speaking stone. Niers nodded to the [Reporter].
“Keep clear of the containment zone or my forces will shoot you, reporter. No one is going to breach this area. Now…if you’ll excuse me, I have a [Druid] to talk to.”
The Sea Shepherds were on the line, but at least Niers had found a Circle that he preferred to talk to. Every time you burnt a forest down, you had to talk to [Druids].
 
——
 
As it turned out, the Sea Shepherds were more understanding about everything than he’d hoped. Niers had a fairly convivial chat with a Druid Godreiad, who his sources put as being head of an entire fleet of them.
They talked about Jungle Tails, Niers’ connections to Izril and The Wandering Inn, and a little girl named Mrsha, and then Godreiad rendered his judgement on the entire forest thing. He leaned over the table, his scarred arms tensing a bit.
“I cannot speak for the other Circles, but I will repeat this conversation to them, Lord Astoragon. We are not…pleased by the destruction of the forest, but you evacuated the forest’s children, and the Dyed Lands…”
He paused.
“…they are a clear threat, as that monster indicates. So. You are not forgiven or pardoned, for that is not ours to give. But we understand. Know that we are watching you, though. Counting. You do as you believe you must. So shall we.”
That rather ominous-sounding statement was as close as Niers thought he’d get to a pass on the forest. He bowed his head respectfully.
“I’ll have another forest planted, Druid Godreiad.”
“Were it so easy, Lord Astoragon. I must go, but should you enter the Dyed Lands, my classkin would be…interested to know what is occurring there.”
“Do you have anything you could tell me, Druid?”
Niers was vaguely surprised the Sea Shepherds weren’t in Baleros already; they took on disasters and enemies of nature, and this was surely an ecological disaster, but the man hesitated.
“I—regret that we are occupied. What is clear from watching is this: they are fleeing something.”
“Fleeing? They fight and attack in good organization—at least, the blue does.”
“Animals migrate and fight with cunning, but this looks like flight to me, Lord Astoragon. They are prolific—even, perhaps, superior to other animals. But they would not come with such desperation if they were merely expanding. Take that for what you will.”
They left it at that. Niers sighed, stroked at his beard, then cursed.
“Damn. I forgot to ask what the penalty would be for burning two forests in a year.”
Probably best not to inquire. At some point, the [Druids] would stop warning you and very smoothly move into slipping poison into your tea or blowdarting you with a seed they’d cast [Overgrowth] on. Nasty lots. He knew better than to annoy them. You started killing [Druids] because they were lawless lawgivers of nature and you never stopped.
Niers sighed, then felt at his neck. He needed a drink. And he wished…
Well, he wished that were the end of it, but it wasn’t.
 
——
 
He was still waiting.
That was the impression Balsam got when he called upon the Titan for personal congratulations. Everyone thought it was because of his bravery in battle, and it was…he had a date with Plaxima when they got on break, which was a very nice thing that Balsam didn’t discount.
But he was still unhappy about nearly dying to the flailing monster raging around in a damn forest fire. However, when the Drake stomped into Niers’ tent and saw the Titan drinking only water over dinner, he realized it wasn’t over.
“Sir.”
“Oh, don’t stand on formalities, Balsam. Sit. Eat. If I’m that damn scary, you can go and take the food.”
The Drake bristled, sat down, and ate before he realized he was being manipulated. He scratched at his burnt scales, and Niers glanced at him.
“Any wounds?”
“Nothing bad. Just damn bruises from the worms. The Minotaur’s braver than I am. He’s badly burnt, but he’ll probably level or something.”
“He’s already reported that he has. Venaz is brave. I’m glad he’s tempering that with other good qualities. The Shoreaxes spoke well of him, and they were highly skeptical of him due to that [Captain] of the Iron Vanguard he injured. Him earning their trust tells me how far he’s come. They’re not Beriad, you see; last year, his stubborn pride would have gotten him in trouble.”
Balsam had no idea what all that was about, and Niers noticed. The Fraerling drummed his fingers on his leg.
“You really haven’t got any insights into the Dyed Lands, Balsam?”
“Nossir. Nasty. Never seen the like.”
“No…prescient thoughts about Jungle Tails and the situation there?”
Balsam thought about it as he patted his mouth.
“Nice trick hitting them with their pants down. Don’t let them get the Eyes of Baleros. Last time was bad. But you were there to end it.”
“I was there to end it, yes indeed. Did you ever serve with them?”
“…Maybe. But Nagas in their company ask too many questions.”
Balsam got shifty again, and Niers sighed. Both glanced around and realized the other was doing it. Niers waved a hand.
“I covered for you with the Fraerlings. One was worried that he couldn’t enchant you properly.”
“Hah. I haven’t met many Fraerlings. That lot’s interesting.”
Balsam smiled for a moment and then just sat there. Breathing in and out. Alive. He cleared his throat with a pressing question.
“…How much are you paying me?”
Niers didn’t get mad. He didn’t shout or demand things from Balsam…no, he demanded a lot, actually. But if the Drake gave Niers anything, it was this: he demanded things that were within expectations.
No great wisdom. No wondrous deeds of heroism or ruination. Perhaps he expected or hoped for them, but when Balsam failed to materialize anything of the sort, the Titan just accepted it. It made Balsam feel guilty. Niers inspected his fingernails.
“I can do two thousand gold pieces.”
“For fighting that thing?”
The Titan raised his brows and glanced up.
“You were barely in danger, Balsam. I kept you out of most of it.”
“I—but—a Gold-ranker would earn more than that, easy!”
“Gold-rankers take more risks. Be real, when were you in any true danger?”
The Drake grumbled and cursed, but he had to admit that even if he’d taken a big punch from the ball o’ worms, it probably would’ve only hurt or broken a bone at best. Niers added after a second.
“I’ll throw in a carriage ride to the nearest city with fun for the next time you go on a date. And all the best restaurants and inn.”
“Fine. Can I get it for tomorrow?”
Balsam perked up a bit at that. Niers wrote it down and told Balsam the gold would appear in his Merchant’s Guild account, and that was that. A silence fell as they ate, and after a moment, Balsam rubbed at his right eye.
The illusion spell, if it wasn’t kept up right, would reveal a ruby red eye as beautiful as any color in the Dyed Lands. The same with his ordinary red scales, but he often worked dirt into them. Niers wondered if he had wings or if the spell he used to change forms just made it so they weren’t there. The Drake—well, he was obviously a Dragon—muttered after a while.
“Look, I don’t—I really don’t know anything about any of that. I was just there when the Eyes were used and got stolen. Y’know? I was working as a [Fisher] in some shit-terrible Selphid village for like an entire decade when it was really bad.”
“Sounds miserable.”
“Yeah.”
Balsam took a long drink of ale and wiped at his mouth. He spat, as if trying to wash the taste of fish out.
“I nearly went crazy. What a miserable place. You know a kid that grew up there ran off and became a Gold-rank adventurer? She’s still alive, I think. I visited, oh, four years back, and everyone was proud of her.”
“Anyone I know?”
“Uh…Ivirith. Jelaqua? She’s in Izril.”
“Small world.”
“It’s pretty big, but yeah. Things go in circles.”
Balsam kept drinking, then, after a moment, worked up the nerve to ask another question.
“I, uh, I heard about Tulm a while back. Did he…you know. Did he get anyone I…?”
Niers wore a pained expression as he stared into the distance.
“The Frost Dragon Lazcrene ring a bell?”
“…No. Damn. How old was he? She?”
“I’m not sure. Young. Young enough to still be in Dullahan territories or the area when Tulm found them. Possibly they needed the cold to survive.”
“Shit. And they gave him a big class just for that?”
Balsam crunched down on his food until he realized he’d eaten his fork. Niers shook his head. He stared at something in the distance, and his expression was pained.
“It’s hard, of course, to find anyone. Sightings are mostly rumor. Any creature with scales and wings gets called a Dragon.”
“Right. Half are probably magical Wyverns. But have you met…?”
He wasn’t sure if he wanted to know. Niers shrugged slightly.
“Would you like to meet them, if I did?”
The Dragon patted at his mouth with a napkin, growing even more cautious. Not excited.
“Not sure we’d have anything to talk about. Unless there’s one who’s…old. I mean, old and knows things.”
Niers got what he meant, and he grimaced.
“Most do not, in my experience. I met one who was forty-one years old. Barely able to speak; utterly unused to, well, any kind of civilization.”
“Damn. Yeah, that—damn. Sounds about right.”
This was probably the only continent where you could find a place to actually hide. Terandria was too nosy; Chandrar’d kill you, and open sand wasn’t that easy unless you dug or something; and Izril—Izril was complicated. Too civilized to hide, anyways. Balsam waited, then coughed.
“The kid. What happened?”
“She was barely able to speak the common tongue when we met. I tried to convince her to change, but she was…territorial. You know how hard it is to help someone who has no reason to trust you. What am I supposed to do, put them in a cage? Failing that…and impressing the danger on them is even harder on someone who doesn’t understand how many enemies they were born with.”
Balsam’s own grip tightened on his cup.
“Yeah, I bet.”
After a moment, Niers continued since there was nothing else to say, his voice becoming matter-of-fact.
“Tulm’s killed two Dragons that I know of. I don’t know who the other one was. Neither one had any…connections to their roots. Like, say, the Dragonlord of Flames. Do you know him?”
Balsam glanced up, then kept eating.
“Nope. But you hear rumors. Never met him. Never…well, I never went searching past Baleros. He’s a real—Dragon.”
“As opposed to you?”
Balsam shrugged.
“I just make a living. I’m not here to be a hero. I just want to get paid. After this, I’m going to have to quit if people keep looking at me and asking what my level is.”
He began getting angry at Niers again, but the Titan waved a hand.
“I’ll take care of it. You’re a tough Level 36 [Lineholder Captain] I like because of your name. I’m giving you artifacts; I’ll give you a fancy, nice one for saving my precious student. It’ll glow and everything.”
Balsam relaxed and nodded. That was all he wanted. Enough pay to live off for a long time, and enough to keep him from going crazy. Nothing else.
There was nothing else. He didn’t know if there were more of them, or his heritage. A few people he’d met ages back had thought they should have something important like that.
…But that’s only because they’d wanted it. Some had gone off to find it. He’d never seen them again. Balsam burped, wiped at his mouth, and Niers nodded at him.
“This campaign will end soon, Balsam. Then I’ll rotate you. Somewhere useful. Guarding a friend, maybe.”
“Guard-duty. That sounds nice and easy.”
“She’s a good cook, too. Or a decent one. She cooks, I’m told.”
The Dragon smacked his lips. He’d take that. He nodded at Niers, and the Titan smiled.
“Another cup, Balsam? I feel like I owe you a few drinks.”
“I suppose I could take another. This stuff kicks decently well. What’s it called?”
“Rxlvn. Antinium. I thought you’d like it. Incidentally, have you ever been sick?”
“Uh…I think when one of those magical plagues was going around I was sick for like a week.”
“Fascinating.”
 
——
 
Jungle Tails whined about the ‘unacceptable attack’ of course. About how Niers was compromising safety for everyone by attacking them. They had their [Spokespeople], fancy Nagas, though none of their High Command—Niers might have tried to snipe them just to get it on camera.
Most of the day was spent arguing over the ethics of his attack and showcasing the damage Jirem was causing—but mostly, the effects of Jungle Tails’ defensive lines being broken.
Like a dam bursting, the Jade Swarms were pouring outwards, and the further they got, the wider a range they had to spread out. Harder to contain. Yes, a dam was a good analogy; people took for granted how many monsters the Great Companies were holding back.
Of course, the scrying orbs showed civilians fleeing villages that should have been evacuated, the green snake-parasites attacking desperate soldiers trying to fight them off. Of all the monsters, green might be the worst for your average soldier to battle; there were just too many to swing a sword at.
After the sixth scene of monsters attacking civilians, Niers turned off the scrying orb he’d been watching. He was sure his students would watch longer, but he had work to do. He knew what he had done.
Hopefully, he wouldn’t ever be numb to it, but the Titan had to admit that sometimes he felt like the scars over his heart had become hard as rock. When a [Reporter] shoved a ‘microphone’ in his face and asked for his comment, he had one off-the-cuff reply.
“We’re at war. I didn’t see you covering the cities Jungle Tails has sacked or what they did to ‘traitors’. They should have evacuated the entire region months ago, same with Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard. Yes, I attacked them. They had no second defensive line, and they were not ready for me. I am not going to be blamed for incompetence on my opponent’s side.”
That might have been too direct, but Niers was tired of the posturing already. He deployed a counter-[Diplomat] after a few more pointed remarks, but unguarded comments aside, Jungle Tails wasn’t going to pull a victory of popular sentiment out of the military defeat.
His rebuttal to Jungle Tails was that he hadn’t seen them drawing out a super-monster to fight. And, combined with the ‘leaked’ information about the value of the Azure Beast hides, the other Great Companies were reassessing the Dyed Lands threat.
Well, the leak was more of a fashion collection that a certain Gnollish [Armorer] hit the markets with. She sold a bare dozen sets of blue armor she’d managed to make at incredible prices on auction. Then the next week she sold another dozen. Then three dozen…
They caught on after that and presumably got mad for overpaying so much, but Niers needed to make some money. It kept him busy.
He reformed his forces up on the front, went back to fighting the Azure Beasts, and he was wondering if the colors would shift to green after all. If so, it’d be an easier fight. Reports indicated that the entire color had fallen back and was visibly lagging in its rotation. No doubt incapacitating their leader had done a lot of damage.
It was as Niers was writing a letter to The Wandering Inn inquiring about a few matters, wondering when he’d get a fun new student to bully—teach—when it happened.
The thing he had been waiting for.
It came out of the whirling clouds of azure haze like a shooting star. A spinning comet shedding particles of yellow light. It passed straight over the heads of the soldiers, who thought at first it was some beast.
But the magic just kept shooting out into the sky. Niers didn’t see it at first—then his personal speaking stone began to blare. Iuncuta Eirnos, who was writing her reports to the cities, leapt up with crossbow in hand as her speaking stone made the same sound.
A voice spoke after a beat. Vler’s.
“Emergency flare spell detected! Lord Astoragon, are you in danger?”
Niers’ heart leapt into his throat. He swept the letter off his desk and rose. Eirnos turned to him.
“That wasn’t us. Niers—”
The Titan tapped the speaking stone.
“I know what it is, Vler. Prepare bombardment spells if needed. Iuncuta, I want every single Tallguard ready for combat. Full alert! Mobilize!”
He stopped just once, and the Fraerling woman saw Niers reach for something on his belt. Her good eye widened as he popped the sealed cork on the bottle and drank it.
Then the Titan was shoving his way out of the tent flaps. The world always looked so damn small—
He nearly ran over Umina and Kissilt, who were joking as they brought him some reports. They stared at him.
Up at him. The six-foot tall Fraerling shoved past them. He’d drunk the Signim. And he was running.
“To arms! Get up and mobilize!”
 
——
 
Captain Balsam and Plaxima emerged from their tents in the camp, both naked and holding weapons, when they heard the alarms going off. These weren’t ‘we are engaged in battle’, polite alarms.
These were get out and fight alarms. Balsam swore as he saw people running and heard the order.
“Mobilize! Get to the front!”
By the time he arrived, the Titan was striding down the line of [Soldiers]. Striding—because he was the Titan.
Tall, person-sized. Hence the nickname that sometimes came true. That alone told Balsam something bad was going on. But where was the enemy?
No one but Niers seemed to know; the Azure Beasts had actually been inactive. Niers was pacing in front of his commanders and strategists.
“Wait for the second flare. I need a precise lock on the coordinates. Hold—”
He pulled out another bottle, downed it, and someone protested.
“Lord Astoragon, that much Signim is—”
“You can drink six before you’re in trouble. Shut up and wait.”
“Six?”
A disconcerted Fraerling watched as the Titan spun. Balsam was getting Vinegar company in order when he saw it. A second spell. A yellow [Flare], but far more powerful and ornate than he was used to. It punched out of the mists, and Niers pointed.
“There! [Mark Target]. Company, forwards. Magus Veern, light spells on max. We are going in!”
His front ranks began to march—the Titan ran ahead of them. He lifted a hand.
“Full march! [Speed Raid].”
This was not a regular advance. Balsam felt the lines of soldiers transition from a walk into a jog. Then a run. He felt speed Skills activating and gulped.
“Shit, shit, shit—”
They were heading straight into the center of the blue. But the Titan seemed at least prepared for this.
“Magus Veern, I want you to coordinate your timings with every single [Mage] on the front! Save all your mana for me unless you’re in danger. Keep those light spells up.”
He pointed to the stupid tricolor lights that Balsam had grown sick of. They glowed in the blue mists as his people cut through, and figures were darting down, spreading their wings as they slowed just overhead.
“Sir! You wanted us?”
Peki. She flew down as a panting Dwarf charged into the ranks of—Balsam twisted.
That was the Dwarf! Merrik! He saw a second army behind them. Then the Dragon began to get really worried. How many damn people was the Titan…?
“Peki! Keep your squad low; there will be fliers in the mist, and we can’t provide air-support. Shield the Tallguard, understand? Merrik, you’re with the Fullhelms on the left. Venaz, you have full authority with the Shoreaxes. Take our right flank and keep them off! Skeldriv is going down the center. Prepare to engage!”
Despite the shock, his army was moving into formation. They knew what to do, and when they heard the first shouting, they moved practically by reflex.
“Azure Wolfmen!”
“[Acid Cloud]—Fullhelms!”
Merrik swore as he fumbled a modified helm onto his head and promptly lost several inches of beard he’d failed to seal off, but the Dullahans hit the monsters, and the rest of the army barely slowed a step.
“Fliers in the air! And on the right!”
“Slingers, cover us from above! I want two volleys, both with [Stop Projectile]!”
They were using the tactics that they had mastered against the Azure Beasts, but it was confusing. Both for them and the enemy, Balsam thought. The blue was not expecting this push, and meanwhile…
The light was getting brighter. Magus Veern was shining it, vivid as he could, running with a staff held high. It was Umina who caught up to Niers, riding a horse for all she was worth.
“Sir, I’ve got your Centaurs. Where do you want us?”
The Titan’s teeth were bared. They were eating up ground as they advanced at a reckless, no, insane pace. They were running straight into monsters in the fog, not just blue. But he was having wind spells clear the colors, and—he pointed.
“There. If I point, then kill it and rejoin our forces. If you get lost, fall back.”
“Yessir! What am I searching for?”
Surely, he had to be seeking out the flare. But the Titan just grinned at Umina.
“You’ll know it when you see it. Hey, Merrik. Want to see a magic trick?”
Umina was riding back towards her command, breathless, when the panting Dwarf, wiping blood off his axe, caught up. Merrik clutched at his side.
“What? Sure…I love magic tricks. What…?”
They ran into the enemy again. But they were, in the end, just monsters. Their danger was in their numbers, the ability to spread out. Against one of Niers’ armies, much less two, the [Soldiers]’ Skills could punch through them. If you were willing to bleed for it.
“Stygian Stalkers!”
“Umina! Kill them!”
“White Ghast! White Ghast—”
An invisible monster attacking from the sides. The poison-spitting monsters, and blue speed-demons. But the Forgotten Wing Company just kept advancing, practically at a charge.
Balsam himself was getting a bit tired from the rapidness of the pace. But the Titan just kept running, and the third flare passed overhead. He adjusted course, seeking out its origin.
Four flares. Five—
How far were they into the blue territory? Was he mad? They were going to run into the super-beast he claimed was there! But you could see their progress from above. Scrying spells actually witnessed the tricolor glow of the Forgotten Wing company parting the blue sea from above.
Now…were the monsters running from them? Balsam saw Azure Wolves howling and retreating, even swore he saw some Stygian toad-things hopping away. The thunderous footfalls of an army running, the Titan’s aura—
None of this had scared the Dyed Lands monsters before. The Jade Swarms had faced Maelstrom’s Howling, and the Centaurs hadn’t done more than repulse them. Balsam’s eyes flickered to the bright staff that Veern was holding. The other lanterns, torches, and orbs glowing with the same colors.
“Huh.”
Then the Titan came to a halt as, at last, five full hours since the first flare had passed, he found what he was looking for. He was a small man, now. He’d been forced to stop drinking Signim and use it sparingly to avoid magical backlash, but the Fraerling promptly drank a potion and leapt off his pedestal.
“There you are.”
His army came to a halt as hundreds, no, thousands of Azure Beasts turned. A full wave of them, huge beasts that Balsam had never seen before. Turned—but did not attack. Instead, they backed up as the light from the Forgotten Wing company bathed them and illuminated the place the flares had come from.
Balsam gazed up and saw the things that made him remember why he hid. The things that had sent his people into hiding. The first thing the Titan had been, and what he’d never forgotten he was.
Adventurers. They were sitting on the side of a big, blue hill with a purple river running from it. There were just six of them. Two Lizardfolk, one Naga, a Selphid, a Human, and, in front of them, daggers buried in the hill she’d killed…
A Squirrel.
The Squirrel. Foliana was drenched in the blood of the monster she was sitting on, licking at her fur. She glanced up as Niers came to a halt, panting, and her army found her.
Three-Color Stalker and the Azure Beast who had been leading its color. Murdered in its own territory. The [Rogue] raised a paw and called out.
“Mm. You’re late. You said you’d be here ‘right away’. Anyways. I found some new boots.”
She poked the dead monster, whose open jaws had purple foam around the edges. Niers Astoragon exhaled, and suddenly, Balsam understood why he had been waiting. The stress the Titan hadn’t acknowledged.
He sent her into this? The world’s greatest [Rogue] to kill…
There was an army of Azure Beasts between them and Foliana. But they were just surrounding the corpse of their leader, and Niers’ hand came up.
“Magus Veern. Amplify your light spells with all the magic you have—now. Instruct every [Mage] across the frontlines to pour their magic into the spells and throw them forwards.”
“Lord Astoragon? At once. [Resplendent Illumination]!”
The Lamia swung his staff, and a thousand orbs of light rose, filling the air with the iconic colors. Foliana’s eyes.
The light burned away the blue haze around them. Showered the cringing Azure Beasts in foreign colors, and they gazed up and beheld the army.
Thousands of colored monsters. Just like them—colors that had slain their leader.
Color-language. Niers had been showing them the only thing they understood all this time, carving an identity into their minds. After all, the enemy had to know you to fear you.
Foliana didn’t move as she saw the colors bathing her bloody fur. She tilted her head, confused, but smiled slightly.
Like a member of the audience waiting for the [Magician] to reveal his trick. All her faith in her oldest teammate. Now, like a conductor, the Titan of Baleros raised his hands.
“All forces will advance at a walk.”
Balsam was in the front rank, and he walked forwards slowly, eyeing the huge Azure Beasts.
They could have attacked. The damage they would have caused from so close was extreme. But as the light bathed them, the blue monsters fell back. They whined. They felt the Titan’s aura covering them. They saw the Squirrel Beastkin sitting on the body of their leader.
They ran.
 
——
 
The light cut a swathe through the entire color of blue. A swirling arm of the maelstrom of contained colors was cut apart by that glow.
The Dyed Lands monsters peered up, and now two great monsters were dead. They beheld the glow of a new adversary shining at them. And they backed away.
They fled the light that the Titan of Baleros had taught them to fear. To be wary of. To respect like a color of their own. It was not the first time they had been taught to fear a color.
All Niers had needed to do was gamble his Great Company on a single act. He met Foliana, who sat with the Named-rank team of adventurers he had hired. There should have been seven of them.
“Bad luck? I told you to retreat if you couldn’t do it.”
She shrugged. Aside from her comment for her audience, she’d watched him spooking the Azure Beasts off. She played with her paws as he stood there, and the other adventurers began to slide off the monster.
“Mm. It was faster than I thought. Nice armor, though.”
He hoped she’d level. That would have been reason enough to risk this. Levels. But Niers grimaced as he saw the secret signals she was giving him.
We’re all poisoned. He kept his face straight.
“You’re getting old, Foliana. Iuncuta Eirnos, get a [Healer] to look at the adventurers! We’re not done here.”
There were no attacks on his company at the moment; the Azure Beasts were in full retreat, pulling back towards the Dyed Lands themselves. Ideal, but in the distance, as their color faded, he saw green hesitantly swirling to the west and black clouds north of him.
“Time to earn my pay. I want [Riders], Centaurs. Veern, you’re in group one. Umina, group two. Peki, take your wings, every Fraerling and [Mage], and those light spells. Ride into the other colors, but don’t get out of range of any other group. Five hundred yards—”
[Light]. Centaurs and people on horseback galloped forwards as Garuda and Fraerlings shone the light. Foliana watched as a Tallguard [Doctor] dropped out of the skies towards her.
“I don’t get it.”
“It was going to be ‘poo-brown’, but I vetoed you doing that.”
“I never said that. Brown is stupid. I think there’s no brown monsters here either. They don’t like that color.”
Niers half-twisted, frowning.
“Really? Damn, I should have used it, then. Just think as if colors are a language, Foliana. Dead gods, you should understand it better than most with your eating Skill. They see colors, and they assume that means a rival monster.”
“Mhm. I know that. That’s basic, dummy.”
He rolled his eyes.
“But they don’t project light. What they see is what they get. They generate color by their presence; that’s why we get these lovely damn clouds of it. Foliana, what happens if they see a sea of these new ‘enemy’ lights coming at them?”
He was smiling like a Demon, a monster, and a bastard. Foliana’s weary head rose, and she saw it, then.
“Mm. Lots of enemies. You liar.”
That’s the illusion that Niers was creating. The tricolor sea of lights he was organizing was sweeping at the green and black colors, and Niers held his breath. If this didn’t work…
No. He saw the colors were moving. A rain of those damn green snakes visibly began flying away from barely two dozen riders holding [Light] spells. They recognized the forces that had killed their leader and were retreating.
So were the Stygians. Even if they hadn’t lost their super-monster, it looked like the pink-yellow-green mass of lights coming at them was twice, or even three times, as numerous as they were. Niers shouted into his speaking stone.
“Don’t advance too fast! Now, I want you to move exactly as I am going to direct you. Vler, I need some coordination from above—”
“I see it, Niers. Consider me amazed. This is me clapping. Yay.”
Foliana’s eyes narrowed as she tried to work out why even Vler was so impressed. Then she glanced at Niers and thought of the most despicable, underhanded move she could make with the ability to bluff monsters from the Dyed Lands.
Foliana developed a smile too.
 
——
 
At first, they didn’t understand what he was doing. Oh, they got the part about the colors. Everyone did, and many a [Strategist] was either kicking themselves or getting yelled at for not figuring out this ‘obvious’ concept.
It would take months for the other Great Companies to establish an identity with the Dyed Lands monsters, especially since you had to have the exact right colors or the monsters weren’t fooled. Stealing the Forgotten Wing’s color-combinations would probably be faster. Every group would just take Niers’ hard work, and the Titan had to know that.
But, from above, the wave of his colors were spread outwards. They moved astonishingly fast, pushing through the blue color they’d cut in half, and flowing out. In reaction, green and black visibly shivered and withdrew. Unwilling to fight what they perceived as an overwhelming force.
Of course, these were colors already vying for space with the other swirling colors. White, yellow, red, all the other colors—except brown—were bunched up, and when one color shifted, the other ones had to as well.
Monsters fighting each other as they forced each other’s territories back. Seeing the tricolor lights and giving way to the perceived superior foe.
And the Forgotten Wing company just…kept…going. They had pushed both green and black well clear of where they had been initially when Aria Fellstrider suddenly realized what they were doing and began swearing.
“No. Oh no. That bastard. I’m going to kill him. Everyone up! Get up!”
She raced out of her tent, abandoning the scrying orb, and began shouting. She hit a rune on her saddle, and a full camp mobilization alert was triggered. Lizardfolk and Centaurs sprang up in alarm.
“Aria? What are you doing? Are you intending to attack as well? We’re not ready!”
Archmage Uenoix, attached to her unit, was remonstrating with her as he glowered. But she wasn’t seeking glory. Her eyes were wide with outrage and worry as she pointed at the map.
“That bastard. He was complaining to mother about us not helping. He knew he was going to—he’s not just pushing them away, you idiot! He’s sending them at us!”
The Centaur whirled, and it took him only a moment to realize what was going on. Niers wasn’t just ‘repulsing’ the colors coming out of the Dyed Lands. He was squeezing them. Forcing them away from Forgotten Wing territory and up against each other.
What happened when you squeezed a container with too many liquids inside? Every child had experienced it once. Aria saw the colors bulging outwards. The crimson she’d been fighting, the stygian black heading their way, green and yellow on Jungle Tails’ side, white visibly overrunning an area she knew the Iron Vanguard was supposed to be holding—
The colors exploded outwards.
Slowly. Slowly, but given the relative size of the clouds from above, she knew that on the ground, monsters were racing forwards, unwilling to fight each other, unable to go anywhere else, and so rampaging outwards a second time.
Straight into Maelstrom’s Howling, Jungle Tails, and every other region except the ones the Forgotten Wing held. The only company who wasn’t instantly in their path was the Iron Vanguard; even the Gazers’ forests were in the path of a color!
“We—we have to repulse them. Color magic. I’ll prepare mass illumination spells—”
Uenoix was trying to salvage this, but Aria shook her head.
“You can’t stop them now; they’ll just fight us, and the pattern is gone. He—everyone up! We have to stop them!”
She was galloping the next minute, swearing, heading back towards the northern plains. That unspeakable monster. That Fraerling—because no one had helped him, he’d decided to make it every other company’s problem.
Especially Jungle Tails.
 
——
 
“Dinosaurs.”
“What?”
“They sort of look like dinosaurs, don’t they? Not all of ‘em, but that super-thing looks like a dinosaur-wolf.”
It was just a passing conversation in the United Nations company in Talenqual. Paige turned to one of the new Earthers they had found—or rather, who had found them.
Everyone was sitting and watching the images on the scrying orb, most in dead silence. Kirana had stopped putting out food on the tables. Ken was speaking on a stone to people calling him.
Paige…just wondered if the weapons she’d made would do any good. Against that many monsters?
She saw a roaring, blue hippo-thing biting through a steel portcullis. Tearing it off, then blurring wolves pouring into a city. There was no sound from above, but she could see [Guards] trying to halt the monsters coming up the stairs.
No smoke or flames from above, either. Normally, she had this…image of a city burning when it was sacked. But these were monsters. The only flames came from people trying to stop them. And there were so many.
Blue. Green. Yellow. Red. White. Black…after the sixth color, Paige made to turn the scrying orb off.
“This isn’t what we should be watching.”
There was an advisory playing for viewer discretion on the scrying orb. You didn’t see much—detail—but city after city was endangered.
Not all were falling! Several were fighting off monster attacks, and those were triumphant, but Paige just thought of the tiny man who had saved Geneva and who Daly, Ryoka, and that Erin Solstice were with.
He really was a Titan. He moved a piece on the board and cities burned. She got why he had done this; his territories were, by and large, unaffected by the monsters fleeing his forces. But—
The only person not affected by the scenes on the scrying orb was the new kid. He came from the literal future, 2025, and everything he carried was, like, a decade in the future to Paige. He even felt…different. So much time passing. She glanced at him, and he was half-smiling.
In disbelief.
“It doesn’t look real. Is it…? I mean, that’s crazy.”
The vision of the Dyed Lands spreading, the colors striking outwards, made it seem less immediate than it was. Or maybe—Paige realized this kid just hadn’t ever seen a monster up close. Hadn’t ever seen someone die.
“Tobi. Tomorrow, can you organize a hunting trip? Just bag some game for us, okay?”
Tobi blinked, looked over, and nodded at Paige. Killing an animal on a hunt didn’t ‘ground’ new Earthers that much. Making them skin and gut the animal did something.
You’ll see.
Paige wondered what the Titan was thinking about all this. He had to have known what he was doing. What…what was his expression?
 
——
 
Umina and Venaz were marching back with cheering Lizardfolk, but the cheering had died down when the first images on the scrying orbs came in. Like Paige, they had the same question, and they saw the little Fraerling man riding on his pedestal next to Foliana, who was still sitting on the Azure Beast, watching the scrying orb.
His face?
Calm. There were crow’s feet around his eyes, which tightened when he saw cities vanishing. Now and then, he just nodded to himself.
Like a man who could see the future watching it come to life. Surprised only by the way the details twisted. They searched for guilt, for remorse, for pride, anger, or any of the qualities that would make him more of a person.
They found nothing. Just a face like a Golem’s, unsurprised. His eyes flicked up once, and Umina shivered as Niers glanced at her. He nodded at her, as if her reaction was equally normal. Not wrong. Just—he had seen it all, in his mind. Weighed it on a scale only he knew, then made his choice and set out to bend the world until he found this future.
That was her Titan’s other face. And yet, as the monsters spread out further, the Titan kept his eyes on the scrying orb.
He did not stop watching.
 
——
 
Niers’ forces were pulling back to their lines, and he was giving rapid orders, when General Diomedes appeared.
He walked down the road, and the trembling of his footsteps and his sheer size made all who had never seen the Cyclops stop and gaze upwards in awe. Even the super-monster of the Azure Beasts, being rolled towards the base on logs—it was too big for any Chest of Holding—was small compared to him.
He inspected the corpse that Foliana had insisted they take—as if Niers would leave it behind—and nodded. Even by their standards, it was an impressive kill. Foliana had been chattering in Niers’ ear so much about how she wanted her new armor to be Fraerling-made and all the upgrades she wanted in it, she’d barely been herded off to the healer’s. He hoped that was a good sign.
The Titan waited for Diomedes in his command tent. [Soldiers] were moving in columns past him; not to reinforce the defensive lines, but to take the fight to Jungle Tails. Capitalize on their advantage. Diomedes halted, then knelt that they might speak, though they were still ant and giant.
The Cyclops had a disapproving gleam in his one huge eye, as he always did when Niers did something unspeakably advantageous.
“I see now why we’ve abandoned our western holdings so thoroughly, Niers. I wondered why our forces were following such odd evacuation routes. Do I presume I am to lead the counterattack?”
“Yes indeed, General Diomedes, though I intend to push forwards and establish another layer of fortifications closer to the Dyed Lands. I suspect our color-identity will be useless once the monsters are exposed to too much of it. And I suspect this is only the beginning, as I said.”
But he’d cleared a path to the Dyed Lands, and now the value of the monsters was apparent. Just…kill them first.
The other Great Companies were not going to be happy. Diomedes squatted down, glancing at the tent where Foliana was being treated. He rumbled.
“A masterstroke, as always. Doubtless, it shall give us the time to reverse our fortunes, and I see the colors have a worth beyond mere beauty. Coin will do. But—Titan to titan, I must say it was cruelly done to the many who will suffer.”
Niers exhaled. Diomedes really knew how to take the victory out of a moment. General Gloriam would have been pouring Niers a drink.
“Fair enough, Diomedes. But once again, Titan to titan—I’ve counted the cost of Jungle Tails securing the damn Eyes. They wanted this war, and I have scrupulously, painfully, not razed their temples, killed their peoples, or broken this land even though I knew they were still there. Now, they’ve come back and expect, what? A gentle war? An honorable battle? How many times must one company make the same mistake?”
He spoke with true bitterness there. A man contemplating dark deeds and knowing that he must not do what he felt might be necessary.
Titan and titan. The Cyclops rested on one knee and did not envy the burden on Niers’ shoulders, which he had long seen was heavier than his. Diomedes rose, nodding.
“I await the next chapter of your tale, a spellbound reader, a member of the audience not sure whether to applaud or gasp, a soldier. To war, then.”
He nodded at the War Walkers who continued their advance, and Niers gazed at the now-subdued colors spread into the distance, a splintering, many-headed beast. But then towards the center, where the light still shone, triumphant, inviting. He murmured.
“Yes. But amidst all our bloody carnage, I hope to be an adventurer. That would be nice.”
Then he went to check on Foliana.

10.53 UEG (2025-12-21)

It had been seventeen years, she decided. Seventeen years, and they were long years. A lifetime. Two, really. Which meant she had lived at least three lives so far.
No one living knew her. She was a ghost, in a way. People looked at her and saw something. A pleasing configuration of skin and bone, even if it was green. A monster. Spellcaster. Hob. Goblin.
Ulvama. But ‘Ulvama the Hobgoblin’ was just her last life. Before that, she had just been ‘Ulvama the [Shaman]’, a Goblin who had not been so tall or powerful or important.
And before that, she had been a masked Goblin in the volcanic tribe, chosen for being so smart and full of potential that she had been allowed to enter the great Witch Anazurhe’s tribe.
Lives. Each one had been different. A young Goblin learning magic from Goblins who spoke of an island, a [Witch] who bowed to no one. A Goblin waving a wand and running around with a mask over her face until the day she strayed too far and found out the world beyond their volcanic home was not so kind to Goblins.
Not at all.
Then a Goblin who learned to fear Humans. Someone who suffered and relied on the terrible, cowardly ruler of the mountain, Tremborag, and scrapped and fought for power. A Hobgoblin who did or watched terrible…terrible things happen and ignored it because she lied to herself it was vengeance, it was how things happened, and because she couldn’t change anything.
That life had come crashing down as well. That terrible archer, flames sweeping her home and unravelling the work of a lifetime in hours. A march unto death until they fought in a muddy field, Goblins killing each other for someone else’s plans.
She had not died there, of course. Merely become captive and survived. But she had not been the same Ulvama as before. She’d tried, but a new one had stepped through that door.
Tribeless. Magicless. Suspicious and old and alone.
Then, she had known no one living remembered her. Oh, Rags had met one Ulvama. Anazurhe, if she remembered the young [Shaman], would have recalled another. But no one knew Ulvama. Only a few Goblins had seen her every life, and the two that she had loved and hated, each in their own way, had left.
Pyrite, the thoughtful, aggravating genius who recognized everything but his own potential. The only Goblin who had ever won Greydath’s friendship she had met. And…Tremborag, the Goblin who would have rather been [King] than Goblin King. Who, in his own way, understood the truth of their species, but refused to do anything more than hide away.
They were gone, and the weary [Shaman] had rested at the inn, wondering who she would become in her third life. She had not expected her life to begin by having to take care of a Gnoll child nor that she would remain in the inn so long.
Or the [Innkeeper]. Much could be said of how Ulvama viewed the strange woman who was both annoying and sympathetic. Erin Solstice had taken burdens upon her that Ulvama had never considered. Terrible ones put down by destiny and dead souls, and she had picked them up, and so…the Hobgoblin had witnessed something rare.
Another person who changed lives. On the days leading up to the Winter Solstice, the merry [Innkeeper] had begun shedding who she was, until that long night.
Then, she had woken up on that ship in chains and darkness and sailed her way through a war. When the skies fell, she had said goodbye to the woman who lived around Liscor and merely ran an inn.
Was she on her third life? Most likely, as Ulvama reckoned such things. It was not a Goblin idea, living ‘lives’. Just how Ulvama thought of the world. From what she had been told of Erin, the [Innkeeper]’s story, she had lived three lives, just like Ulvama.
Changing lives was no small thing. It was trauma and rebirth. Most lived only one or two lives at most. To change a life in moments was always some great act, whether horrible or good. Mostly, people changed slowly.
Like…parents. A Goblin warrior strutted around, brash and bold, proclaiming they’d live forever. They fought, they watched friends die, they bled and recovered from wounds. Lost teeth like fights. Levelled and lived and probably fucked. Sex being quite normal for someone who thought they’d live for a year at most, if they ever thought of it at all.
But one day, perhaps, they found someone who they didn’t stray away from. Or they found a little Goblin being born that was theirs. Or simply took an injury that meant they were no longer that invincible warrior. They grew tired of fighting and became…another Goblin.
A parent, a bitter, wounded veteran trying to keep younger Goblins alive. A leader.
Two lives. Maybe three, if they changed again, but mostly, it was two.
Every Earther had lived at least two lives already. Erin, before she had come to this world, had been a child of a safe land. Safer by comparison, if nothing else. Whatever she had been—Ulvama wondered how hard she’d tried to cling to who she was.
Her values, her sense of how things should be, her convictions—she’d broken pieces of herself off in Liscor. Exposed harsh edges and cracks in her soul. They told stories of how she had first been swindled by a certain Drake [Shopkeeper], then come back to win a game of chess.
The Goblins told stories of how she had killed a Chieftain in single combat. Ulvama listened to the stories and what was unsaid, and she knew what the Chieftain had tried to do to Erin.
From the remains of one life, the second Erin arose and found her edges were sharp in places, stronger than she knew. She had lived well, but she had not changed lives.
Not even when her Redfangs had died. Surely it had hurt her. Even now, their statues stood in her garden. She carried the dead like flames, but she had still been that same Erin. Until the moment she too died.
Literally died; a rarity, that. Ulvama had never heard of a non-Antinium person dying and coming back to life in this age, but Erin had done it. And thus had begun her third life. But that winter, when she awoke?
That had been her fighting her new life. The beach, the silly [Innkeeper] rolling around in her wheelchair, annoying Ulvama to no end—that had been the young woman resisting the moment she had known would come. Begging for an hour’s reprieve, a month’s grace, until she faced the Goddess of Death herself. Though she had not known it, that had not been the hour when she let her past life go.
No…that moment had probably been in the cells of The Naga’s Den. Or—or perhaps in the hour thereafter, when she turned that ship north to save a single life at any cost. And Ulvama had been there, because she had thought someone had to be, for Erin Solstice.
This third life they now led, these two women, was a strange one. Frightening and harsh. But not always bad. For once, in the care of the smallest people in the world, the ills they suffered seemed balanced.
Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. Some time had passed since Erin and Ulvama had stopped here with Eurise and the company from Dretonamis. The city was still rebuilding, shoring up its defenses, and soon they would leave.
Soon, on another adventure, but something strange happened to Ulvama here. Something she had not asked for nor dreamed of. It took her a long time to realize what was going on so surreal was the feeling.
But for the first time in seventeen years…Ulvama realized she felt safe.
Not just in a room where she had at least one emergency exit and could bar the door. Not just in an inn where she was sure someone would come if she screamed.
Safe.
Lemoste was no city of Izril. It was not Drake or Human. It did not…think of Goblins. At all. Goblins weren’t monsters to Fraerlings. They weren’t anything other than a kind of Tallfolk. If they were a threat, they provoked no feelings in Fraerlings other than pure curiosity and wariness for anyone odd.
In fact, more than once, a Fraerling had mistaken Ulvama for one of their kind with a unique illusion or skin dye! It was that realization, as she began to wander the city after a certain [Innkeeper] had broken the ice with her concert, that made Ulvama remember her previous lives.
Or maybe they’d always been there. Just…waiting until she thought she was safe and allowed to not always be glancing over her shoulder.
She didn’t know. But certainly, a change came over Ulvama that her companions noticed.
 
——
 
There was a quirk the Hobgoblin had. Which was that she refused to go out into Lemoste alone. Naturally, Matha was only too willing to go with Ulvama, but Erin would then boot her in the behind and tell her to go help build houses.
Then Ulvama, realizing that to invite one was to get the other tagging along, promptly would go over and invite her companions of choice for an outing.
Namely, the Battle Hamster or Bowom. Since Eurise and the others were often hunting either ants or local animals for food, they were the only two who could navigate Lemoste with her—the beetle was far too big and being used to haul things around, anyways.
The Battle Hamster would oblige one out of every ten times, and mostly to get food. Which meant that Bowom was often the one strolling around with her. If he was busy, Ulvama would pull a face, and Erin and Matha would dash over.
It worked out that she spent good time in everyone’s company, but more than once, the [Mad Doctor] was given a death-glare by Matha and various hand-gestures, which he’d cheerfully return. Erin, for her part, would complain about not being invited…unless she realized Ulvama was going window-shopping; in which case, she’d decide to make some magical food or help somewhere else.
The Hobgoblin could wander through a commercial district in Lemoste for hours. Even with all the shops closed, Ulvama would peer into windows or ask people passing by what was on sale nonstop.
“It’s not weird. Shoo! Go bother Matha.”
She chased Erin off as the [Innkeeper] complained.
“C’mon, Ulvama, let’s do something fun like use my color-Skills or, I dunno, cook.”
“Cooking is for people who make food.”
Ulvama sniffed as she grabbed Bowom’s arm. The [Mad Doctor] waved at Erin, appearing only slightly harassed as she towed him off. Erin waited.
“Yeah?”
“I don’t.”
Whereupon Ulvama glued herself to a window where various-sized knives were on sale until the bemused shopkeeper invited her in.
“You like knives, Miss Goblin?”
She was a known sight in Lemoste, of course, and Ulvama peered at the knives.
“I like these knives. Why have all these different types?”
“To cut better. That one’s a steak knife, that one’s a deboning knife, that one’s a skinning knife, that one’s a carapace cutter—see how thick it is? Want to try one? I’ve got to deliver a bunch for the butchering efforts.”
The Fraerling was packing knives into cases, padding each one and wrapping them—but they were going to people mass-butchering things Eurise and the [Hunters] killed. From the way he placed a display knife in the box, Ulvama knew it was valuable. She peered at the knife, then him.
“This one is very good. You could put another in, maybe?”
Wistfully, the Fraerling man studied the handle, which was some pearlish inlay that turned out to be a bug’s chitin mixed with a salamander hide wrap. It complemented the slightly purplish metal of the blade, which had a wavy forging line and, to Ulvama, was unto a [Blademaster]’s blade, only in knife-form.
But he packed it up anyways, shaking his head.
“It’s a fine, fine knife. A masterpiece I got cheaply and never found the right person to sell to. This isn’t the time to hold onto it. It’ll cut finer than most knives. Let a [Butcher] or [Cook] use it.”
Ulvama peered at the blade before the [Shopkeeper] slid the lid of the box closed, then she inspected him. Bowom stopped yawning and tapping his roach’s leg on the floor as he inspected some knives he reckoned might be useful in surgical matters. He glanced at Ulvama as she bit her lip—but she’d been here long enough that her shyness was gone.
“You didn’t make it?”
“Nope. I’ve dabbled, but I’m no crafter. I’m a [Shopkeeper]. Classic.”
Classic…unless you knew that this was a Fraerling city. As in—Ulvama’s brows wrinkled up.
“How do you shopkeep? Fraerlings don’t have money for lots of stuff.”
Not like other species. Even Goblins had a hierarchy of ‘Chieftain gets what they want’, but Fraerlings were a post-scarcity society. The [Shopkeeper] winked at Ulvama.
“I got my class by being good at buying and selling. Usually not currencies; they go in and out of fashion. You trade favors and goods. Build up relationships. This was from a fellow I’d known for twenty years. I got the blade off him, and that was a trick.”
“Why be a [Shopkeeper] in a Fraerling city?”
Ulvama lifted one of the knife-boxes the man was taking, and surprised, he smiled. Both used their Bags of Holding, so it sort of made the gesture meaningless, but the Hobgoblin still walked with him as they chatted. The Fraerling’s eyes lit up, and he adjusted the dapper vest he wore, a twinkle entering his eyes. Behind them, Bowom stole a knife.
“What’s not to love, Miss Goblin? I always thought capitalism was fascinatingly fun. Accumulate wealth, get more, spend it to get…I set out as a young Fraerling with no real talents, which is a pain in a city like this, let me tell you. Now? I’ve got enough to have an Orichalcum knife in my displays.”
He tapped the side of his nose as he casually flipped another knife out of a display, then hurled it over one shoulder. It caught Bowom’s sleeve and pinned him to the wall.
“That costs something, friend. Put my knife back unless you’re helping prepare food. Now, Miss Goblin, we’re just heading down to the ground floor…I can take the boxes unless you mind the walk.”
“I want to walk, please. What does Orichalcum do?”
That was what fascinated Ulvama. Not the knives alone; it was the blade that had caught her eye, and the [Shopkeeper]’s story. The thing was, you could always find a moment of fascination in a city. Erin would have been bored of finding out there were so many knives, but she would have probably grown interested the moment the [Shopkeeper] revealed his class and rationale.
Now their roles were reversed; it was the [Shaman] who was endlessly talkative with the Fraerling, because she had nothing to fear from him. He was quite pleased to discuss haggling with her, and she was an expert bully and negotiator in her own right.
“The key, in my experience, is not to let your class dictate your actions. I had a moment of panic this morning when I thought about giving my knives away for free. Then I looked myself in the eyes, and I said, ‘Thist, what are you doing?’ Is a knife worth anything right now?”
“Ah, so you wouldn’t mind if I took—”
Ulvama waved a hand at Bowom to shut up. She began to ask about the Orichalcum thing, and Thist the [Shopkeeper] showed her the knife again.
“It’s all about magic with Orichalcum. Partly why this never sold and was such a good showpiece; I never got it enchanted. It collects magic. Look at the shine a [Light] spell has on the metal. You can’t get that from mithril or Adamantium. One’s light, the other’s nigh unbreakable. But with knives? Most are going to cut what you want, even steel. This is beautiful.”
In fact, Thist appreciated Ulvama’s talk and walk with him so much that when they dropped the knives off, he offered her the Orichalcum knife. Her eyes grew wide, and her ears visibly rose.
“You’re giving that to her? What about me?”
Bowom complained, and Thist gave him a cool look.
“Giving it to our only Goblin guest ever is a good story for the store. I’ll have an [Artist] do up a picture of her, maybe. Besides, a [Shaman] could use a blade like this, and it hurts my heart less. Giving Bowom the Doctor a blade for free…no.”
“Ah, so you’ve heard of me!”
Bowom grew markedly less talkative suddenly, but Ulvama had to thank Thist. She shyly gave him a charm she’d made up for good dreams, then continued on her way. Getting free stuff wasn’t always the reason she wandered the city.
But it was certainly nice.
The second thing that Ulvama did was perhaps less endearing. After her heartfelt, knowledgeable conversation with Thist, she passed by a store selling confections. Fraerling-style. You’d think that would mean less sugar given how it was a rare commodity, but there were plenty of just as sweet alternatives, everything from bug nectar baked into tarts to globules of melted nali-sticks spun into various shapes to ground-down honey powder.
Part of the reason why Erin wasn’t Ulvama’s #1 companion for this kind of trip was because the [Innkeeper] refused to eat sweets these days, but Ulvama just sighed as she pressed her face to the glass along with several children.
“Oh. Oh, it’s so tasty-looking.”
Bowom sighed again as Ulvama gazed through the window.
“Someone should see what it tastes like. Just in case.”
“Far be it from me to deter our routine, but in case of what, exactly?”
He was already checking his belt pouch for some coins that Lemoste’s citizens liked to use as play-money. Ulvama was opening the door.
“In case it tastes like I hope!”
 
——
 
Not a shop, bakery, butcher, or restaurant could pass by Ulvama before she would suggest ‘someone’ try the food there. She was a glutton with at least two stomachs, and Bowom, as someone who’d had two stomachs, was amazed how she could pack it in.
The owners and the [Cooks] of the shops made it worse; they were endlessly amused by the sight of the Hobgoblin eating with clear delight, so they fed her.
“Keep it up and you’re going to be too full for dinner, which will annoy our [Innkeeper].”
Bowom predicted with the powers of a [Prophet], but Ulvama was too happy to stop. She was only halted from entering another café when a little child ran up to her.
“Miss Goblin, Miss Goblin. Boo!”
They hid their face, then made a scary face, shouting and scrunching up their features. Ulvama developed a delighted expression, glanced around to see an amused mother, and then hid her face.
“That not scary. This scary. Blergh!”
She used an illusion, and the resulting mask of toothy, warty horrors sent the child screaming and running for their mother. Ulvama beamed—after she’d made sure she hadn’t traumatized the child.
“You like children that much?”
“Eh. These ones cute. Goblin children are too much work.”
That was it, Bowom decided, as he observed the [Shaman] who was so little like the books he’d read. She was on vacation. She wasn’t the [Shaman] caring for a tribe. She was allowed to enjoy things without worrying for anyone except Erin.
And, perhaps, the books he’d read had been too preoccupied with the ‘Goblin menace’ to acknowledge their humanity, despite an understanding of their intelligence.
“Bah, what do books know? They’re only what’s written down, and anyone can do that.”
The [Doctor] was feeling at his belly, wondering if he could empty his stomach out so he could get more into the snack-expedition, when someone called his name.
He ducked on principle. Ulvama turned, but someone didn’t try to brain Bowom with a brick. It wouldn’t have been the first time, either. The [Mad Doctor] was known in Lemoste, though he’d not been here in over a decade, and he was not well liked. In fact, Ulvama got the impression that but for her and the disaster making his talents useful, most people would have run him out of the city already.
However, the [Healer] coming their way, who worked at the Fraerlings’ busy version of a hospital, wouldn’t have run Bowom off. No, Ulvama thought she would have killed Bowom outright. Yet she was approaching, and someone was walking with her.
Someone…tall.
Most Fraerlings were six inches tall, varying around that height, but the cloaked figure half-leaning on the [Healer] was eight inches tall. A veritable giant, and thin. And…something was wrong with their face, but they were hooded, and the moment Bowom turned, he froze up.
“Ah. Er, Ulvama. I might have to cut our trip short. I think…”
He was searching around for somewhere to run, and Ulvama wasn’t sure if she should help him or not, when the person the [Healer] was supporting looked up. She heard a very, very faint voice as the mother and child hurried away suddenly and the street cleared.
“Doctor. Doctor, they told me you’d come.”
Bowom shuffled his roach’s foot as the [Healer] halted, glaring at him, and Ulvama stared at the strange Fraerling’s legs. They shuffled very slowly under a long, obscuring dress, but her legs seemed to articulate at a waist set far too low. It would have meant her midsection was longer than her legs. And her limbs under the cloth…
“Mad Doctor Bowom, I insisted on keeping you away, but I was overruled. I trust you will behave with decorum?”
The [Healer], Restorer Ginthe, snapped, and Bowom didn’t respond. He just peered up at the woman’s face. She was quite attractive, Ulvama thought, but something made the Goblin viscerally uneasy until she placed it.
The head doesn’t seem right. Neither does the neck—
“Mieve. How are you doing? Er, you’re looking quite well. Very mobile.”
Ulvama was feeling that sensation on her back, a crawling, an unease, suddenly. Like the confines of The Naga’s Den. Had he—? Was he—?
She shot a glance at the [Healer], but the woman didn’t respond. Just glared, and Mieve…smiled.
“Very mobile, Doctor. I don’t walk often. I scare people. But I was glad…I moved around vigorously when the ants came.”
“I’m sure you did.”
Bowom was glancing at her robes, rubbing his six-fingered hands on his coat. He was glancing everywhere but at Mieve’s face.
“They tell me I saved many lives, Doctor. Don’t look so guilty, please.”
“Who, me? Not at all, not at all. So there’s no rejection symptoms occuring? How’s the old spine holding up?”
“It hurts now and then.”
“Ah, see, that’s the lack of chemistry between spine and flesh. Painkillers take care of it, I trust? I never could get the spines just right. They secrete so much. Crelers, well, they don’t have the same body structure, but that would have been a real landmark surgery. But they’d, well…not a long lifespan with them. It would have been even more impressive, mind you.”
Mieve was the only one who laughed. She drifted closer and moved her clothing slightly. Ulvama didn’t recoil; that would have been rude, but Bowom sighed.
“Ah. Rejection in your legs. I could prescribe—”
“It’s just overwork. She’s fine. If she needs anything, it will be nothing you prescribe, Bowom.”
Healer Ginthe interposed herself between them protectively, and Mieve bent down, pushing the Fraerling [Healer] aside with—Ulvama counted the articulation points on the arm. After four, she stopped.
“I’m fine, Doctor. I just wanted to see you. So you don’t worry. Are you still operating?”
“Not…right now. Just a few legs and hands, you know.”
Bowom’s cheeks twitched in what might have been an attempt at a smile. The Fraerling patient peered at Ulvama, then past him.
“I hope you never have to help someone like me, Doctor. But I know you can. Please don’t look so guilty. I miss your laughter.”
Then she grimaced. Rubbed at her legs, and Ulvama saw the [Healer] take her arm.
“We should go, Mieve.”
The patient nodded and turned. She held Bowom’s hand once as he murmured to her, gazing up at her, and then she drew the cloak around herself. She turned and shuffled backwards. And Ulvama?
She waited until they were alone before turning to Bowom. He stood there, staring after his patient, and murmured.
“If you’re going to throw something or stab, the spine is an excellent place, you know. Base-of-neck. Some monsters actually root themselves there to hijack a body. Extraction is exceptionally traumatic; I’ve never managed it without paralysis. But I was never good at putting things back together the same way.”
He kicked a stone on the ground. Ulvama peered at him, and now she was alert. But she did wait, assessing everything about him. How he breathed, how he looked…
“I think that if you had done something terrible to her, Lemoste wouldn’t have let you go. I think that if you did the worst things I can think of, Eurise would have pulled your head off.”
Bowom did smile at that.
“True. A highly ethical fellow, just like Zinni. You know, I’ve wondered if I could make myself survive that. Mieve…I don’t think I could put regular legs back on her, even now. The rejection, you see—”
“I saw.”
Ulvama’s voice was flat. There wasn’t enough of Mieve to restore to her Fraerling self. The Goblin waited, and Bowom brushed at his coat again. Then he smiled at her, and the madness in his eyes was banked. Just a normal man, right now, speaking with the class of a [Mad Doctor].
“That’s the problem, you know. You perform an operation on a patient. You do the old trick with a Jar of Lightning, put together your best body parts. Get a damn good laugh going when they sit back up, and then leg it before the mob can grab the torches. You’re not supposed to meet them again.”
She poked him in the side, but gently.
“Was that what happened? Did you bring her back to life?”
They began walking; people were staring at him, with knowledge, and Bowom strode along, kicking at bits of rubble.
“Hm? Oh, no, not her. Erin has some lovely stories about contemporaries in her world…I never got into the old ‘revive from death’ bit. I suppose I needed a love of my life to really get the juices flowing there. Living is fine with me.”
They walked on for a while, and Ulvama looked over her shoulder.
“Did she…ask for that?”
“That specifically? No. I’m proud to say that was some of my finest work. Real grab-bag of ideas that paid off, you know. Any parts at hand combined with inspiration. She…shouldn’t be alive. Medical miracle. I didn’t give her a year, and it’s been, what? Thirteen?”
Bowom counted on his fingers absently, then gave up.
“It’s not the kind of thing you ask for, Ulvama. It’s the scenario where you ask a darling young woman on the slab how she’d like to go. Fighting? Anesthesia? Or let me do my work?”
Ulvama shivered again.
“Fighting you?”
Another pause, and Bowom exhaled.
“No, not me. I daresay she would have been rather effective against those ants. I forgot she’d be—well, I thought after so many years, she wouldn’t have managed to—you know, there’s a comforting thing. If she really wanted to, she could run down and settle the score. It’s a beautiful moment when she runs, you know. From my perspective.”
He came to a railing over the city and stared out across it. Ulvama had lost her appetite for the snacks she’d bought and stood there with him. She patted him on the back after a moment.
“Silly [Doctor]. Scary madmen shouldn’t appear so guilty.”
He did laugh, then, a broken, crunchy-sounding laugh like falling glass. Then he winked at her.
“Well, I never figured out the brain-stuff either. Mostly just replacements and connections for nerves. None of that ‘where do I poke to turn you into a [Singer]’ nonsense.”
The Hobgoblin would have left it at that, but in her experience, people tended to want to say the rest. So she waited as the wind blew over them, and Bowom muttered.
“I was doing a damn fine job descending into the depths of my class. Another few levels, just a few, and I would have found out exactly how far the stairs led. The problem wasn’t the drop. It was doing the good thing. Turns out a madman’s act committed to noble cause still looks crazy.”
Ulvama nodded.
“I did very bad things in Dwarfhalls Rest too. Terrible things by doing nothing.”
Bowom found a waterflask and saluted her with it. He took a chug, then passed it to her.
“Your lovely [Innkeeper] was so heartbroken over her first torture. This is why they need a few veterans like us.”
She sniffed the flask, then drank and grinned at him. And that was her day in Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. Not bad, by far. Revealing. Meaningful, and she knew…
She knew their journey had to continue. For ill and good, as they found it, Erin changed things. Sometimes, it was a relief. This [Mad Doctor] had also lived two lives, she decided, at least two.
But was he onto a third, now? Ulvama realized Bowom would not be going back to Dretonamis, not ever. Nor would he stay in Lemoste. He was with them, but was it a new life?
Or an old one?
 
——
 
Erin was royally annoyed that Ulvama and Bowom didn’t have much of an appetite for the food she’d made for dinner that night. She kept feeding their portions to the Battle Hamster until she noticed how quiet Bowom was. Then she pulled Ulvama aside.
“What’s with Bowom?”
“We met one of his patients in the city.”
“Oh. Like—wait. What kinda patient?”
Erin developed much the same expression as the [Healer] and everyone else. Ulvama thought about it as she munched on some decently-tasty aphid stew. Erin had even put some spices in it, just like Ulvama kept bullying her about.
“Looked like…he made a living weapon out of monster parts. Only, she kept living after she killed something bad. Way longer than he thought.”
“He made—? Like, against her will? I didn’t think he was a bad guy.”
Erin inhaled and glanced at Bowom, who was giving them a knowing look as he stitched some fingers together. Ulvama smiled at him and whispered to Erin.
“Not against her will. I think it was like the gift of A’ctelios Salash in the ship cells.”
“Oh.”
Erin stood there, a troubled expression on her face. Ulvama took another bite of soup. And that was the [Innkeeper] for you. All morality and, well, bright goodness. Like flames.
Ulvama had already figured out enough. She trusted Bowom as far as she could throw him. Time would reveal the rest. She couldn’t be a judge. That was for someone who didn’t have guilt in a mirror. The Hobgoblin just wished she could figure out more than just bits and pieces of Erin’s personality. The [Innkeeper] confused her in ways few other people did.
 
——
 
What was Erin Solstice doing while Ulvama spent her time investigating Lemoste? Well, kickstarting her musical career as a top-selling musician.
Not by choice, you understand. It just turned out that when you performed an Earth-original song to a Fraerling city with a new style of instrumentation and music, they didn’t just tip their hats, say, ‘cheerio, good show’, and leave it at that.
That was how Erin found herself singing to a die-hard audience day-after-day with Matha. In fairness, the Vision of the city and the entire Architect council had asked her to do it; they credited her with raising morale and considered her act a function just as important as Eurise’s queen-hunting.
Being respected by any city’s governing body was so novel that Erin hadn’t the heart to turn them down. But the downside, of course, was Matha.
The lead guitarist and newly-minted [Punk] annoyed Erin. It would have been easier if she was just an annoying, reformed [Raider], but they discovered that even without Erin’s [Boon of the Guest], Matha really could play on the guitar.
Erin wanted to believe it wasn’t ‘good’ music yet and that Matha was only shredding as well as an amateur, but with proper accompaniment and enthusiasm, even an amateur band could make any cover good.
…And they had a band. It felt like half the Fraerlings under thirty, and a quarter of the Fraerlings above thirty, had volunteered for tryouts. Erin had six backup bass players, eight drummers, and a bunch more Fraerlings starting their own bands for fun. The Architects had mandated that everyone had to work, but once you’d contributed to the rebuilding effort, many would flock to her band and beg to get a copy of the latest sheet music or try the newest enchantments meant to mimic the sounds of an electric guitar or piano.
The sheet music was where Matha was useful. Erin couldn’t write it, but the former-[Raider] would laboriously figure out the notes from Erin and then make copies.
Again, this wouldn’t have been bad. There was lots of drama, naturally. Bands starting and breaking up, Fraerlings vying for the ‘top spot’ of the bands who got to perform nightly with Erin’s band or in her group. Funny stuff, too, not just petty.
Like…imagine being some cool, fifteen year-old [Musician] who could play the guitar. Elohi had taken to the new musical genres and earned her [Rock Bassist] class within two days of the performance. Solid. Nice music Skills.
Then imagine what happens when Elohi’s mother shows up, and it turns out she and her husband can outplay their daughter. That they, in fact, have the true spirit of rock n’ roll in their blood and outlevel their outraged, youthful daughter with their band Fallin’ Gnomes.
Ulvama had nearly laughed a kidney out when Erin had told her about that. Most Fraerlings were genuinely cool. Erin had trouble quantifying it until she’d explained to a bemused Eurise what she meant while watching Fallin’ Gnomes performing.
“It’s like you guys don’t get old, you know?”
He pointed silently at his white hair, and Erin waved a hand at him. Eurise had a few cuts from fighting, and she felt guilty as ever, but from the way he was munching down some popcorn she’d created with her Skills, it was clear that he enjoyed this break greatly.
“What I mean is…the Tallfolk I know act old. Like—they can’t change. Half the people I’d show music to back home would complain about this ‘young person stuff’ and never give it a chance. Like, my mom complains about pop songs, which I don’t even like, but I’ve heard her favorite songs, and they’re not better.”
He chuckled at that.
“That’s just liking the first thing you heard. The rest? There’s plenty of Fraerlings who can’t change, Erin. You just don’t see them. They live in their cities, and they wouldn’t survive a month in Dretonamis. They wail and cry when they stub a toe. This attack…well, I think it broke some of them. They hide away and wait for the walls to come up.”
The [Explorer] shook his head, glancing at the city above them, and Erin knew he was right. Complaints had been made about the music, but she just meant…there was a greater proportion of ‘cool’ Fraerlings. Eternally youthful ones, like Elohi’s parents. Eurise nodded to Erin as he took another bite of the yeast-covered popcorn kernel.
“With that said, the attack probably unearthed a lot of folk’s resolve. I’ve seen that too. So have you. Those Fraerlings, they’re levelling. I can’t speak for you Tallfolk, but I think you came at the right time to meet the ones who’re ready for change.”
“I guess you’re right. Darn. I was trying to talk Fraerlings up, you know. All those other species have great people and sucky ones, but I’ve never met a Fraerling I hated! I guess I want to believe you’re all awesome.”
Eurise snorted, but kindly.
“How can you say that when you’ve met Roja?”
He and Erin ducked as she hurled her boot down at them, and Erin thought of Zinni. Or, again, Matha. She scowled at the [Guitarist] who was performing a song so Erin didn’t have to, covered in sweat and pumping her fist up for the cheering audience.
“I guess you’re right. I’m just…I like this city, Eurise. Despite the lack of walls and all that’s happened. I wish my city accepted me and Ulvama so much. But I do like Liscor. It just needs work. More paint. Less rain. And the Antinium—of course I have to go back. There’s nowhere like Liscor. And I’ve never met a…a…Dwarf I didn’t like! All, uh, three of ‘em are great. Pelt, Dawil, Dasha…ooh. I’ve never met a Selphid I didn’t like! Except for one of those [Slavers]. Um. I’ve never met—a Dragon—no, wait—”
There was a faint hooting sound, then she realized it was Eurise laughing. He lay back against the seats, laughing, and she saw him glance at her in amusement and—jealousy?
Jealousy, yes. He wiped at his eyes as she chuckled too.
“You’re the only person who can say she’s gone further and seen more, Erin. I’m glad you stopped by. I was getting bored.”
She ducked her head, embarrassed.
“Well, your people are the only ones who don’t blink when I do something crazy. It’s nice to be normal.”
She peered down at the stage as Matha waved at her, having done a stage-dive into the crowd and surfed her way back to the front. Erin hesitated as the cheering grew louder.
“Well, sort of normal.”
 
——
 
After performing six more songs and nursing her hoarse voice with some tea, Erin was high-fiving the bands, congratulating a sulking Elohi, and smiling.
Once more, things were actually fun. It was just…Matha.
The [Raider]-[Punk] stumbled into their storage and practice rooms with a new haircut that Erin was relieved to see wasn’t hedgehog spikes, a new ant chitin jacket and leggings, and three Fraerling women.
“Hey, Erin! The crowd loves us. I’m gonna teach the guitar to these girls. You, uh, seen Ulvama around? When are we eating?”
Erin gave Matha a long look but cleared out as the other Fraerlings laughed good-naturedly. If Matha’s reputation had earned her some doubt, she’d seemingly made up for it of late.
“I’m whipping up some aphid stew with a recipe one of the [Cooks] gave me. Be there or be…unfed, Matha!”
“You got it, boss-lady! That’s our Human. I know she doesn’t look like a Human, but she’s crazy. Did you know that I first met her when she took out our entire base? This was back when I was a [Raider]. She dropped on us and blew half of it apart. Miracle she didn’t kill anyone, really. So what do you all do around here when you’re not rebuilding…?”
The annoying part was that Matha caught up to Erin less than forty minutes later as Erin was finishing her soup. Erin glanced at her.
“You’re early. Where’s the bowls and stuff? Weren’t you teaching them how to play the guitar?”
“Yep. Gave them a practice guitar and everything. I’ll get the bowls!”
Matha came back with bowls, and Erin stared at her.
“Wait, that’s not a euphemism?”
“What’s a euphemism? Some new instrument?”
Matha caught on as she began sampling Erin’s soup and got a smack on the hand with a ladle. She grinned.
“Oh, that? They really wanted to learn guitar! Mind you, I have a date after dinner. And another date tomorrow morning. And a third after practice—nothing serious. Everyone knows I have to keep going with you and Ulvama when we’re leaving. When is that, by the way? I want to schedule everything out.”
“You really don’t have to come with us. You could stay.”
Matha peered at Erin sidelong as the young woman wiped her own brow, still a bit sweaty. The Fraerling found a towel and gave it to Erin, who snatched it after a glare.
“Nope! I’ve got to. I’ve been to Lemoste; it’s different now, but it’ll get old. I want to see the world, just like Mera and Zemmy. So…how’d you think we played? I really liked that new song you showed us.”
“What, 21 Guns? I never liked it that much when I was young. My dad was the big fan.”
Erin had spent a lot of car trips as her parents dueled over their music listening while playing chess in the back seat. Matha exhaled.
“Oh. But you sang it real well.”
“I guess I like it more these days.”
Erin realized that was true. A lot of the songs she would have groaned at and insisted be turned off were just ‘okay’ now. Or even positive. Heck, any music from home was nostalgic. She could even get into rap music. Probably. She didn’t know how much rap she’d ever really listened to.
Distractedly, Erin wiped at her face as she served soup into a bowl.
“They used to have concerts in my city. I never went to one, not ever. My parents did. I wish I’d gone. I just thought it’d be too noisy and lame, but if that’s what it’s like—”
She’d never really gone out that much. Ryoka was the cool girl who’d gone to parties, ridden motorbikes, and stuff. Erin wasn’t sure if she regretted it. She wanted to know what that was like but…
“I don’t think the Erin back then would have enjoyed it, anyways. The now-Erin wouldn’t mind.”
She was rambling to herself, and it was entirely pleasant musings about herself—until Matha interrupted.
“Hey, if you want to see more of Lemoste, I could show you around. Or we could go with Ulvama next time. Say the word. If you wanted to, I could take you to, uh…a Switchem Storehouse right now! They’re always open.”
Erin glowered at Matha.
“A what the what? And no, I’m not interested. But what is that?”
“It’s this big warehouse where you take things you don’t want. You can either help fix it up, or someone does it for you—so you can get furniture, tools, all kinds of stuff. It’s great. We don’t have ‘em in the villages because there’s not enough people, but you can wander around there for ages.”
That…sounded like an antiques warehouse, but again, without the element of buying and selling. More Fraerling stuff in a society where money wasn’t that valuable. Erin was actually interested.
She’d go with Ulvama tomorrow. Not Matha.
“Or we could go get a mystery brew from an alchemist. That’s always fun. Sometimes, you’re half your weight; other times, they turn your head around so it’s the wrong way or something else! Only…the city’s damaged, so I guess a lot of the magical stuff won’t work.”
Matha’s excitement faded as she gazed out at the shattered walls of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. It was halfway done, at least, the first layer, which spoke to the speed the Fraerlings were working at, but it was a sobering reminder. Erin spoke as she stuck a spoon into the bowl and saw Ulvama and Bowom trudging back.
“Yeah, they can’t waste time or energy on that. It’s okay. We’ve got to help the city, even if it’s just music. Not, say, steal all their food and resources and harass innocent people, right?”
The former-[Raider] shrank as she sat down and went quiet. Erin felt slightly guilty, but then waved.
“Hey, Ulvama! Food! Guess what I made?”
The [Shaman] was not hungry. Neither was Bowom. He gave Erin a fake smile, and she could tell he was upset. Rattled. Ulvama wasn’t that off-kilter—Erin’s new [Innkeeper] senses put her on alert.
“What’s with Bowom?”
Ulvama told her about the meeting they’d had over dinner. She picked at her food until the Corumdon Beetle and Battle Hamster came over with Mera and Zemmy. They were all starving and scarfed down a good chunk of the pot—the Battle Hamster happily swapped vegetables for aphid meat with Mera—and Erin tried to talk to Ulvama. She felt like she’d gotten less time to hang out, which was fine since they’d come to Lemoste, but still—
The Hobgoblin instantly flopped down next to the Battle Hamster and began combing his fur. He wiggled into her lap and ate while closing his eyes, and Erin tried to scooch in on the left and got an immediate twister-punch to the side.
She had to sit away from the Battle Hamster and talk.
“So, uh, want to hit the city tomorrow, Ulvama? If you get an awesome free knife like that, I’ll go out shopping with you!”
Matha opened her mouth, and Ulvama hmmed as she glanced at the new knife she was wearing. Erin had sort of wondered if it was for her, but apparently, the Orichalcum blade was something the [Shaman] wanted. Ulvama peered over at Bowom.
“Maybe no shopping tomorrow. What if we went to the hospital? With gifts?”
Bowom glanced up.
“Ah, splendid idea. And a length of rope for our [Healer] to hang me with!”
Erin’s face fell, and Ulvama snorted.
“Fraerlings can’t die by hanging.”
“Aha! I knew that was a good Tallfolk reference! Physics! Gets you lot every time.”
Bowom brightened up. Ulvama pulled an ant mandible out of the Battle Hamster’s fur. She nudged Erin. The [Innkeeper] frowned at her.
“What?”
“Encourage him. He should visit the patient.”
Erin blinked, then realized what Ulvama was talking about and turned.
“Oh, yeah. That’s true. Let’s go, Bowom.”
“She’s got everything she wants. There’s standing orders to arrest me if I get anywhere near there.”
The [Mad Doctor] was adamant, but Erin frowned.
“Well, then we can ask. But she came out to see you, right? I don’t know if there’s anything we can give her—”
“Nothing! She’s very well-cared for.”
“—But maybe you could still give her a gift? Or is there, like, something only you could make that’d help with the—things going on?”
Erin wasn’t exactly clear on the problem, but the question made Bowom go silent. He rubbed at his face, sighing.
“She did mention rejection pain. If I raided an [Alchemist]’s…”
Ulvama was nodding approvingly at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] nudged her and whispered.
“And once we do that, want to visit this weird place where you trade furniture and stuff?”
“Oh, a Switchem Warehouse? Zemmy, we should see if there’s anything we can use for our trip!”
Mera exclaimed, and Matha gave Erin a betrayed look, which the [Innkeeper] ignored. Bowom snorted as he watched them, and Ulvama? She began to nod, then thought.
“No. Can’t.”
“What? Why not?”
Now, Erin got a bit cross, and Ulvama patted the Battle Hamster’s head. It padded away to nap in the guest house assigned to them. She also polished the Corumdon Beetle’s shell, which it enjoyed greatly.
“I’m going to make a thank-you gift to the [Shopkeeper] with the knife.”
“Oh, I guess that makes sense. But what about after lunch?”
“Then you perform.”
“Poo.”
Matha leapt to her feet excitedly.
“Hey, what if you taught me some songs tonight, Erin? Then I could show the other bands—”
Erin scowled at the idea of more Matha-time.
“Pass!”
The Hobgoblin gave Erin an amused look as she went to find a cleaning cloth for the resting beetle. She whispered to Erin.
“That was her being nice. Then we could do something.”
“It was her being annoying. She just wants to perform for all her admirers.”
“Eh, your choice. We’ll do something day-after or at night. Do you think they have cooking supplies in the Switchem Warehouses? You could make more good food.”
“I made good food! You barely ate it!”
Outraged, Erin pointed at her soup, and Ulvama yawned. She was getting sleepy.
“I ate too many foods. The soup was good. Very tasty.”
Erin narrowed her eyes. Then she hesitated and adjusted her [Witch]’s hat on her head. She glanced sideways at Bowom, then at Matha, and then narrowed her eyes ever-so-slightly at Ulvama.
“Really? You liked it? You’re not just saying that?”
Everyone chorused that it was a good soup, tasted great. And Erin believed them, because, well, she could sense it was true.
She was a [Witch], after all, and her powers and her [Innkeeper] senses combined into being able to read people on an almost literal level. For instance, when she concentrated—and she didn’t like to do it all the time because it got awkward—Erin could tell that no one was lying to butter her up. Not even Matha.
Of course, she got a lot of other feelings, like Bowom’s, who sat lost in memories. She wasn’t sure how guilty he felt or how nervous about meeting his former patient he was. Erin’s sense told her he was literally remembering. A man falling into his own past.
The old her hadn’t been able to do that. In the same way, she could tell the Battle Hamster had an itchy left foot a moment before he bit at it and rubbed his fur. She was too good at figuring people out. And Ulvama, who smiled as she nodded at her soup, giving Erin a patient look?
Erin got…nada. Nothing. The Hobgoblin could have been lying and Erin wouldn’t know because she didn’t sense, well, anything.
Was it because Ulvama was a [Shaman]? Good at hiding her feelings? Erin tried to focus, and Ulvama sighed.
“I’m sorry I didn’t leave room for your soup. You happy?”
She poked Erin lightly, and the [Innkeeper] gave up. She wished her abilities did work on Ulvama. She couldn’t always read the Hobgoblin’s face, let alone her real feelings. The [Innkeeper] sighed and patted Ulvama on the shoulder, then smiled genuinely.
“I forgive you. Now we gotta clean up. Wanna help with dishes?”
“No. Too sleepy.”
“Aw, c’mon…”
Ulvama yawned again. She stretched upwards, standing on her tip-toes. She and Erin had gone completely native in terms of dress; Erin was wearing one of the new band-uniforms with a t-shirt and baggy pants with various band logos plastered on each—she’d also been given a beanie, but she’d gotten too hot and tossed it.
Ulvama, by contrast, had on a sleeveless top and long skirt much like Fraerlings would wear in the warm Balerosian weather. She twisted her arms up, folding her fingers together and groaned as she stretched.
This completely natural, completely innocent act happened to expose her armpits. The sight of Ulvama’s armpit hair went unnoticed and uncommented upon as Erin watched Ulvama. Except by the purveyor of lesbianisms, the icon of—Erin wasn’t actually very sure what Matha was an icon of, but it was definitely problematic stuff. Because Matha, who was collecting empty bowls, came to a dead standstill.
“Whoa. I’d lick those.”
For a few seconds, Erin didn’t actually process what she’d heard. Then she turned. Matha was walking across the outdoor patio that looked out onto lower Lemoste. Below them, construction work on the lower city was continuing. Such as repairing the sewers, which had been inoperable and leaking—a low priority even given the smell.
The young [Raider] was just walking over to an enchanted washbasin, along the railings, when Erin walked over and kicked her.
Not hard. It was one of those kicks that had more transferring energy than sharp impacts. Matha twisted around.
“Whuh—”
Everyone turned as she went spinning head-over-heels off the side of the railings. Erin felt bad about the bowls, and Matha screamed.
“What was that f—”
Fraerlings didn’t die from falls, so Erin just folded her arms. Ulvama turned and gaped at Erin incredulously.
“What? She deserved it.”
“What did she do?”
“Uh—”
Erin glanced at Ulvama’s armpits and hesitated.
“Stuff! Stop screaming, Matha! And get the bowls!”
She shouted at Matha, and Zemmy peered over the railings. The [Brawler] winced.
“Ooh. She went head-first into the sewer main. That can’t be good for ya.”
Erin peeked over the railing. Mera tsked as Bowom began cackling, and there were shouts of alarm from below. By the time a wet and foul-smelling Matha got back up, Erin had cause to regret her actions. A bit. She still refused to say why she’d kicked Matha.
She had cause to regret it more the next day when Matha ended up getting rather sick. Sick as in ‘things are uncontrollably coming out of every orifice’ sick. They had to cancel their band’s performance, and Erin resolved to be a tiny bit nicer to Matha.
Maybe.
But she had brought up an important point, in a sense.
 
——
 
The next day, Ulvama was fussing over Matha, who was stuck in the toilet for most of the morning. The [Shaman] was trying to get back to her class, which meant prescribing noxious tonics for Matha to drink.
She and Bowom had raided an [Alchemist] after all, and he was mixing up something before their visit to the hospital. Erin watched Ulvama passing something through a very stinky door.
“How that, Matha?”
Matha drank it down. After a minute, she screamed.
“It’s all coming out of me!”
Zemmy and Mera practically fled with the Battle Hamster to go fight ants with Eurise. Even the brave [Explorer] only lingered a moment.
“I haven’t found an ant nest since two days ago. Time, I think, to start heading towards another city. Cillencreith’s gone quiet. If you’re okay, let’s head out. Maybe tomorrow, so long as she’s well.”
He nodded to Matha. Then grimaced.
“We can always strap her down to something washable.”
Erin shuddered and agreed. Time to go, soon. She felt a pang, but they could probably get at least three more days, right? Three more days—they’d have to do something special before they went. She was going to ask Ulvama about it before they left for the hospital to meet this patient of Bowom’s. Well, two things, actually.
The [Shaman] was hmming over her potions as Matha made horrible, horrible sounds of distress from the bathroom.
“Maybe that cleared her out? Eh, you throwing up?”
“N-no…”
“So it half work. But the bottom half still spitting?”
“Like an overfull snail getting squished.”
“Okay, maybe I fix that next. You keep hydrating!”
Ulvama was wearing a sundress today—again sleeveless—patterned with a bunch of different-colored flames. She winked at Erin as she placed a bug into a mortar and pestle and put a finger over her lips. She began to mash, and Erin averted her gaze.
“So, uh, Matha going to live?”
“No thanks to you, but yah. You ready to go? We have to save Bowom from angry [Healers]. And talk. He’ll be silent.”
Ulvama nudged Erin with her elbow, and Erin smiled.
“Sure, sounds great! Oh, and, uh, nice dress. Is that new or something?”
The Hobgoblin developed an exceptionally pleased expression as she began combining the bug mash with some other roots and herbs.
“It’s very nice, isn’t it? The [Dressmaker] I met three days ago made it for me. It has your flames, see?”
She spun, and Erin blinked in amazement.
“Whuh—really? I thought it was a coincidence! That’s super cool!”
“Yah, you want one? She can maybe make a pair.”
“I dunno if I’m a dress person anymore. Maybe jeans or pants? What’s the difference between jeans or pants? Fabric?”
Once more, as was her custom, Ulvama gave Erin the flat look of someone questioning someone else’s basic knowledge about the world. She sighed overlong.
“Sure, jeans. We can do that. Go there, then hospital? Then the warehouse?”
“I wanna come too! Anyone got more toilet paper? I’m out! The nice stuff made of aphid wool from Grandma’s village! The parchment’s scratchy!”
Matha wailed as the toilet flushed repeatedly. Silently, Erin threw a toilet roll through the opening in the door. Stupid Matha. But Erin had made a point, despite it being—stupid yesterday.
“That sounds good, Ulvama. Although…it’s a hospital, so maybe we should change into something more formal. Y’know?”
Ulvama hesitated.
“You wear formal stuff to a hospital-thing? This isn’t the same. But in your world…ooh. Is it because the patients might die?”
The [Innkeeper] had to chew that one over.
“No…there’s specific clothing for patients and doctors. I just meant in this case.”
Ulvama blinked down at her dress.
“This is fine. Bowom says that wing is just for long-term patients. Only a very few.”
Drat. Erin decided to broach the topic another way. She shoved her hands into her pockets.
“Well, uh, maybe it’d be good to be more formal anyways. I wouldn’t want to embarrass ourselves. Or like, you to.”
The [Shaman] was pouring her mixture into a bottle when she blinked down at her dress in sudden paranoia. She spun rapidly, trying to look around.
“You can’t see through it? Or see—”
“What? No, no, that’s cool. I mean, you can see…”
“What? What?”
“Your, y’know, armpits.”
The Hobgoblin stopped inspecting herself in a flurry of motion, stared at Erin’s embarrassed, sheepish smile, then rolled her eyes up until only the lighter reds were showing. She picked up her bottle, plonked it against Erin’s forehead, and then rolled it into Matha’s bathroom like a grenade.
“Drink this! Maybe you stop!”
“Thanks…”
Then Ulvama turned and began packing her supplies away.
“Okay, we go.”
“What? I’m being serious, Ulvama—”
“My arms are not lewd, Erin. If they were, everyone would arrest Yvlon first. Or every Antinium.”
The Hobgoblin seemed so amused that Erin flushed, but she was now upon this hill of reasonable logic, and she would die on it. Plus, she wasn’t wrong.
“No, I think it’s a real thing! Trust me, Fraerlings here are like Humans from Earth. Matha’s the real problem; she was looking at them.”
“Yah, she a child.”
“I’m nineteen! What are you talking about?”
Ulvama and Erin ignored Matha. The [Shaman] poked Erin gently on the shoulder.
“Very old child. She pays attention. No one else does. Come, we go!”
She clapped her hands, but Erin stomped after her.
“It’s sort of embarrassing. It’s like—quasi beach-wear, what you’ve got on. What if there are kids around? Think of the children!”
She regretted that when Ulvama stopped and gave Erin a genuinely annoyed expression. She raised her arm, pointing at said pits.
“Children have these too. This not a problem, Erin.”
She was slipping into the Goblin cant, but so was Erin. The [Innkeeper] glowered.
“C’mon, be reasonable.”
“No. I’m not putting on something else. I like this dress. My armpits are fine.”
Ulvama’s eyes flashed, and Erin hesitated, out of objections except for—
“Well, what if they stink?”
“Stink?”
This time, the door inched further open as Matha peeked at the two of them. Both glared, and it shut. They stood in the doorway, arguing, as Ulvama’s eyes narrowed.
“My armpits. Do not stink.”
“It’s warm, and everyone sweats. They totally will. It’s gross. You’ve got stinky pits, Ulvama.”
The [Shaman] opened her mouth, peered around, rubbed at her face, then just walked out of the door. Erin followed her.
“Hey! You know I’ve got a point! Don’t be grumpy! I’m doing this for your own good! Think of the kids! Hey, there’s one now! Don’t get silent on me! Hey, Ulvama! Hey!”
 
——
 
Whatever Bowom expected about his visit to see the patient whose life he had changed forever…well, any nerves were hidden by that polite, smiling mask.
But the [Mad Doctor], clutching a basket of various substances in one hand, was not prepared for Erin and Ulvama to come marching down the street, arguing.
Or maybe it was more accurate to say that the Hobgoblin was shooting glares at Erin as she walked along, head held high. But her green skin was visibly red, and Erin?
Erin was shouting. Exactly when she’d begun, Bowom had no clue, and nor did he have context. But his amused smile at the scene faded when he heard what Erin was shouting.
“Hairy pits, stinky armpits! Boo! Get some deodorant!”
She was wearing a half-smile as she jogged after Ulvama, and Fraerlings were watching the two with amusement or confusion. But Bowom’s rapidly-diminishing smile noted that intentionally or unintentionally, the [Innkeeper] was in a social situation. And she had a lot more power in levels and her class than even a [Shaman].
“Stinky pits, stinky pits!”
The [Innkeeper] ran after the Hobgoblin, and there were about eight Fraerling children who followed Erin, taking up the call. Ulvama came to a halt and didn’t quite look at Bowom.
“Er. Hello, Ulvama. Ready for our visit to the hospital?”
She nodded as he proffered his basket for inspection. She didn’t say a word as Erin skidded to a stop.
“Hey, Bowom! I’m ready to meet this patient. Though we need a few more gifts instead of, y’know, potions. What’s she like?”
“I’m not certain. What’s the shouting about?”
The [Mad Doctor] wished Roja were here in moments like these. Roja was actually fairly socially savvy for an [Explorer]; Bowom was just insane. Erin turned as Ulvama shifted, looking away from her.
“Oh, I was trying to get Ulvama to put something else on. Because, you see, there was—”
She stopped, hesitated, and seemed to decide explaining was going to just make appear stupid. Probably an accurate assessment. Erin pointed a finger at Ulvama instead.
“Look, help me out here, pal! Ulvama’s got hairy armpits, stinky ones, or will! Stinky—”
The children didn’t get a chance to take up the chant. Bowom handed the basket to Ulvama, then drew Erin aside with a smile. He leaned over and whispered in her ear.
“Erin?”
“Huh? What?”
“Knock it off.”
“But—”
“Right now.”
She met his gaze with a half-grin, which he did not return. Erin’s smile became a floundering fish in dead waters as she turned to Ulvama and saw the Hobgoblin was red to the tips of her ears. Erin hesitated, then whirled.
“Hey! Uh, show’s over! Shoo!”
She chased the Fraerling kids away, which gave Ulvama a moment to wipe at her face with an arm. Bowom stood there, sighing.
Misery loves company. He just didn’t actually enjoy the silence that fell over the two of them, which only deepened when Erin came back. The [Innkeeper] stood there, glancing at Ulvama, as if she hadn’t noticed…well, anything.
And Bowom was wondering about suitably insane things to say when Ulvama grabbed his arm, gave him a huge smile, and practically towed him forwards.
“Why don’t we go visit your patient, Bowom? Let’s go.”
She didn’t glance at Erin. Nor did she address the [Innkeeper], who walked in silence for a few minutes, then tried to engage Bowom in conversation.
“So your patient. How’s she, uh, like, Bowom?”
“Alive against all odds?”
“Um…sounds rough. Do you know if we can actually do something for her? Like food or—”
“I imagine her diet’s incredibly restricted, Erin. The [Healers] would get her anything she was allowed.”
“Right. Right. Ulvama, do you think she’d like fashion or a toy or something? We could find one. Or what about some magic? Music?”
Ulvama didn’t respond to Erin. But after a moment, she turned and smiled at Bowom.
“Bowom, we should get her something she can use again and again. Maybe a book? Reading can be hard, maybe, with her hands, but can you get a spell that reads books? Or just have someone do it for her?”
“I suppose that would work. Maybe a new book in the library?”
“Yeah! Or we could tell her a few we know! Nice idea, Ulvama!”
Erin broke in, trying to take Ulvama’s other side. The Hobgoblin instantly stepped around her and walked on Bowom’s left. She didn’t respond to Erin.
That was the beginning of a day that, amazingly, got more uncomfortable than Bowom had been expecting.
No…maybe less, all things considered. Just a different kind of uncomfortable that undercut the horror of Mieve and him sitting in a room and trying to make small-talk. If anything, he thought the Hobgoblin and [Innkeeper] brought her some amusement. So Bowom was grateful for that.
But after three hours of playing go-between for Erin and Ulvama, since the latter refused to acknowledge anything Erin said—to her or anyone else—Bowom realized this might be a bigger issue than he’d thought. And he’d not exactly thought it was trivial.
“Ulvama, I’m really sorry. I am. I didn’t mean—I just meant—”
Erin tried her sixth apology as the [Shaman] turned to Bowom with a huge smile.
“I’m going to check on Matha. You okay, Bowom?”
“Sure. I’ll just go walk in front of that wagon for a second.”
Bowom glanced at the hospital and caught Erin’s shirt before she could stride after Ulvama. She dragged him half a dozen steps, then glanced back.
“Hey, I just—”
He shook his head. Erin opened her mouth, closed it.
“I—”
Bowom slung an arm around her shoulders.
“Let’s give it a moment, Erin. And go for a walk.”
He led them down the street, ignoring the Fraerling [Driver] shouting at him until the wagon hit them and rolled over their bodies. Since it was being pulled by a moderately fast slug, it didn’t really do much to him.
Bowom had high hopes, but the next morning, Erin and Ulvama were both now not speaking to each other. Also, Matha was still in the bathroom.
 
——
 
Erin was upset. She knew she’d made a mistake, but Ulvama got that it had been a joke, right? Erin had been trying to—
This was stupid. She wasn’t going to keep arguing with Ulvama, who was being annoying about talking with everyone but Erin. The [Innkeeper] had messed up, but Ulvama was being rude, and that was…fine.
They’d patch things over in a bit. If anything, it was good that Erin was left alone that morning. It let her focus.
Aside from Matha, Erin was left alone in the guest house, and ignoring the occasional gurble-spurt sound and the ‘Gnomes save me’ voice she heard plaintively echoing…the [Innkeeper] just sat there for a while.
“Right. Time to do something with myself. Enough being silly. Gotta do something important.”
“Kill me.”
The [Innkeeper] glanced out the window, but Ulvama had gone off—nevermind that. The young woman folded her arms. She closed her eyes. Glared at the table. It was not 100% her fault! It was like…72%. It took two to tango! She wondered if there were any other handy Earth-expressions that would come to mind.
She didn’t know. After about thirty more minutes of not-quite actioning on anything, Erin finally looked up.
“Guess there’s no help for it.”
There was only one person more unpleasant to hang out with than Matha. The [Innkeeper]’s face smoothed out, and she took a huge, slow breath.
“I guess I have no excuse anymore. I’m good enough. I can do it even if it’s hard.”
“Nothing’s hard. It’s all liquid.”
“Shut up, Matha. Tell everyone I’ll be back later.”
The [Innkeeper] took a breath, then regretted it. She vanished, and Matha’s plaintive voice echoed into the house.
“Are you doing the Skill thing? Can I see? Can I get some toilet paper before you—Erin? Erin?”
 
——
 
It had taken a while, but the [Innkeeper] returned to the [Pavilion of Secrets] as she had known she must. She sat in the gazebo as her counterpart shuffled a deck.
“Euchre? Cribbage? Oh Hell? Crippling Guilt? Blackjack?”
Erin folded her arms and glared silently. She didn’t have the energy for this. Instead, she closed her eyes, put her feet up on the table, and exhaled.
“It’s time. I wasn’t ready for it before. I’m better now. A bit. I can handle it.”
She had to go back. To Izril and Liscor in general, but to her friends and family specifically. She had been avoiding them.
Oh, some people she’d talked to, like Ishkr and especially Lyonette, even if the latter seemed to be doing a lot of drinking and partying. Well, Lyonette was happy, and good for her. Erin decided that was a good place to start.
“Let’s start with Lyonette. She can tell me who I need to talk to.”
“Sure thing, boss-lady.”
Pavilion-Erin put the cards down and vanished. The deck remained. Erin eyed the cards and reached for one. She picked it up and grunted.
The Hanged Man. Only, it was a woman.
“Ha-ha.”
“Something funny? It’s not like I’m predicting anything fates-wise. At least, that’s not something I’m aware of. That’s just a random deck of cards.”
Pavilion-Erin reappeared fast, and Erin jumped.
“Where’s Lyonette?”
“Busy. She declined your call.”
“She—what?”
Niers had declined the [Pavilion of Secrets], but Lyonette? Erin grumbled.
“Is she busy or something? She knows she can work and talk to me.”
But then, it had to be weird getting a download of a conversation in the middle of a work day. Erin drummed her fingers on the table.
“I could do Mrsha, but she’s probably at school. Fine, it’s fine.”
She was putting off the real stuff, anyways. Erin spoke to herself and Pavilion-Erin, because she needed her thoughts in a row.
“I need to start checking in on people. That’s what this place is for. I mean, I know it’s supposed to be used for ferreting out secrets and underhanded stuff.”
“Plenty of doors not opened, but don’t mind me.”
Erin ignored that too. She went on, glaring at the ceiling.
“…But I can use it to check on everyone. The Horns. Rabbiteater.”
She’d been avoiding it. It wasn’t like the first conversations had been, um, easy. Telling everyone she wasn’t dead and talking to them about the Winter Solstice was going to be hard. Real hard. But Erin could do it without literally melting. Besides.
She had to know they were alright. This Skill that had been granted to her by the Grand Design was her way of keeping The Wandering Inn running. She might not be able to—no, Erin smiled to herself.
“I can even serve them a blue fruit juice and pasta. Zero calories! Got a preference on who I should talk to first, Pavilion-Me?”
“Quarass? Nereshal? Silvenia? Archmage Eldavin or…Thatalocian. Top 5 list.”
Erin scowled at the faintly smiling Skill.
“I meant important people, idiot. Pisces! Ksmvr! Numbtongue…I hear he’s being weird. Maybe I can figure that out. Hal…”
She stopped. Closed her eyes.
“…I have to check on them. Who else? Olesm?”
There were so many people she hadn’t talked to in person, she realized. The [Innkeeper] felt an invisible sense of weight pressing down on her, but she squared her shoulders, exhaled.
Hard things. Important things. Yes, she had to do this. She drummed her fingers on the table, trying to strategize.
“Okay, my first pick would be Ryoka, but she can’t be done. I don’t know…Geneva that well. Nerry I talked to just the other day. So Pisces, Yvlon, Colth, or Ceria. Hey, can I do multiple people here?”
All four Horns in Chandrar appearing in her [Pavilion of Secrets] would be crazy. Erin smiled at the thought. Wait, could she get Ksmvr and Vofea in there too? Were there limits? The idea called to her, but then she hesitated.
“Or what about gun-dude? Gaah! I need a list! Got any paper?”
“Nope.”
The [Innkeeper]’s head swivelled around, and she pointed accusingly.
“You’re literally holding a deck of cards.”
“I’m not your [Secretary].”
“You butt.”
“Armpit-shamer.”
Erin cast around for something to throw, then gave up. She collapsed back into the chair and tried to think. Who to start with?
Well, she thought glumly, there was only one person to start with.
“Alright, give me Nerrhavia.”
She was rewarded with just the slightest expression of uncertainty on Pavilion-Erin’s face. As if even the Skill thought that wasn’t the best idea. Erin flicked up her hand.
“No, give me Nerrhavia and the Quarass together. Psych. Just kidding. Give me…”
There was only one thing to ask for. She closed her eyes and used her brain and really thought about the power of this place. Sheta’s great weapon in her age of rulership. It was more than a ‘search and find’ tool. As Erin had observed when she’d met Eurise…her eyes opened, and her hazel gaze gleamed as the [Pavilion of Secrets] pulled a card.
“Pavilion. Search all my friends and family. Of them all, choose the one who’s…who’s closest to dying. Who’s in the most imminent danger. I’d like to talk to them.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] paused, then showed Erin her card.
Death. Erin took it and gazed down at the skeleton holding a scythe with blue flames in its eyes. Pavilion-Erin cracked her neck.
“I’m not omnipotent. There might be a few candidates. Best judgement?”
“Yeah.”
Again, the woman vanished. Erin sat there, wondering who it was. Ryoka, well, she couldn’t appear here, so Nerry? Rabbiteater? Her Horns? If it was Mrsha, she was going to have words with the Gnoll girl.
This is what this place should be used for. This is good, this is important. She waited, a heavy resolve in her bones.
After a moment, Pavilion-Erin reappeared.
“We’re talking close friends, not acquaintances, right?”
Erin groaned.
“Can’t you just do a news report? I’m going to have to figure this out by talking to everyone instead of you being helpful, aren’t I?”
“I’m not Sir Relz or Noass either. Want them?”
“Get lost.”
It was a bare five seconds before the [Pavilion of Secrets] came back. And in that time, it did a lot of calculations based on relative levels, the danger of certain events, and timing. In fact, the Grand Design refused a dozen requests for more information about the Synectic Maze, the state of things in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Dungeon of Liscor, and so on. Details that it was pretty sure the [Pavilion of Secrets] was only asking about because it wanted the juicy lore.
Make do with what you’ve got.
When that door opened and the visitor walked into the [Pavilion of Secrets] for the first time, pausing to take in the endless vista, the Skill that made their heart leap, and their beloved [Innkeeper], it was the person that Erin—and thus, the [Pavilion of Secrets]—believed was in the most immediate danger.
The [Innkeeper] half-rose from her table, and her fight with Ulvama, her anger and guilt and hurt and everything else left her for a moment. She rose with the little tarot card in her hands, and her guest smiled. He spread his four hands, and his poofy, silly [Chef]’s hat stood proudly, still dusted with a bit of flour.
“Garry?”
The [Baker] beamed at her. He walked forward as she vaulted the gazebo’s railings to run and hug him. The oft-ignored Antinium who baked free bread for Liscor. The last of the four survivors from the chess club, the originals.
Of all of them, she would have never expected it. When Erin let go of Garry and told him he was in mortal danger, the Antinium just smiled.
He already knew that. Whether or not Erin realized it, or the upset Ulvama trying to eat her feelings in Lemoste, this was not a tale about them.
This was a Garry tale, and it had been baking for a while in the oven. But only he knew what he’d been up to.
 
——
 
Garry had been doing some thinking recently on top of the copious amounts of thinking he liked to get away with in general. Just for fun, he’d done some calculations, and he thought he was currently the most criminal Antinium…ever.
You had to assume that Rhir-Antinium didn’t break many laws inside of their own culture. And while you did have a few war criminals like Wrymvr, Xrn, and probably Klbkch, they operated under Antinium-law quite often.
But by his personal count, Garry was guilty of lying to his Queen, embezzlement of city funds and resources, preparation to commit a crime, misrepresentation of priced goods, several violations of acceptable workplace health and safety codes (Antinium couldn’t wear safety hairnets for one), being arrested for brawling, lying to the Flying Queen…
The most criminal Antinium in the world plotted his devious plans while working at 3 AM in the morning. He always got up early to begin baking bread.
You had to. Especially with his new city-bakery—even with all the workers and help he’d been allowed to hire, baking bread took time.
Even with all his Skills! Garry had a lot of mass-production Skills these days. As a Level 39 [Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef], he was replete with Skills, and they were almost all cooking-based.
[Mass Quick Rising], for instance—invaluable. It cut the time yeast took to ferment and rise dough until you could actually watch the loaves of bread rising. He had [Kitchen: Prevent Spills], which saved a ton with some of his workers like Runel and Pisca.
The two Flying Antinium who were his top assistants bustled around their own kitchens these days, since he’d graduated them to full [Cooks], and he felt like Pisca might make [Chef] soon—she was very good at doing delicate work like sculpting the cakes the Free Queen loved to eat. However, a Flying Antinium with their fly-like design could knock things over even with the new kitchens he’d designed for them, so that Skill saved in gold. And gold made more food.
Ah, the kitchens. Garry had his own, of course, in the Free Hive, but it was actually a bit small these days. Runel and Pisca both had a custom-built kitchen that the Free Queen had paid thousands upon thousands of gold pieces to custom-design and build with lower counters for the two Flying Antinium and implements Garry had Miss Raekea forge just for them to use with their different limbs.
It allowed the duo to fulfill the Free Queen’s appetites and left Garry able to supervise his kitchens in Liscor. Of course, since he employed them and ran the Liscorian Public Bakery, which everyone called ‘Garry’s Bakery’, all his Skills worked everywhere.
Very handy, that. Garry had already levelled once, and he suspected the reason he hadn’t hit Level 40 was simply because it was a big capstone, like he’d heard everyone talking about. Of course, no one except the Free Queen knew his level. It wasn’t something Garry advertised.
 
——
 
“You are the highest-levelled Antinium in the Free Hive, Garry. Pawn, Belgrade, even Klbkchhezeim is not, kzzch, your level.”
She had said that to him one time he was serving her an omelet, sounding rather mystified. The Free Queen had peered down at Garry.
“Is…baking bread so difficult?”
“It can be, my Queen. But perhaps it is whom I bake bread for that matters. I make a lot of it.”
“I see. Serving a Queen of the Antinium is valuable, and your foodstuffs have earned the approval of the other Queens.”
“Yes, my Queen. I am very glad to hear it.”
 
——
 
That was the truest explanation he had and why the Free Queen gave him a large discretionary budget to run his bakery with. Garry levelled. And it would also be wrong to say that making bread was easy.
Bread was different. Sometimes, the flour was cold. Sometimes, the air was damp. Sometimes, your yeast was different or your oven had a hot patch or it was just…chance. Not that bread had to be perfect, but consider that it could be tough. Kneading the dough took time and a lot of grip strength. Sure, you could mix up the dough fast, but Garry was hand-mixing the dough.
He didn’t have a Golem. He didn’t tell his employees to do it. He took a stick and spatula and would mix a bowl while walking around the kitchens. Then toss the bread down, knead and fold it until you could stretch it so it was transparent, silky-smooth.
(Assuming it was a kneading dough, of course; he did tons of different stuff. Croissants to soufflés, but a lot was just the free bread.)
Kneading took muscle. Anyone could knead dough, but could you knead enough dough for twenty loaves? Forty?
While other people were making breakfast or brushing their teeth, Garry was kneading dough. While they were walking about or taking a break to chat, Garry was kneading dough and chatting. When they were going to bed, he was kneading dough.
Few people realized how much bread it took to guarantee anyone at Garry’s Bakery got a free loaf of bread. How much did you have to make to feed a city?
Oh, sure, it wasn’t everyone. Plenty of people refused to get anything free on principle—even if Garry wasn’t sure what they were—or eat Antinium-made bread. But the numbers he had to feed and guarantee bread for were insane. Yet his bakery did it, and he already had plans to expand so there was a bakery in every district.
Thus, the question became, if you understood how much Garry was doing behind the scenes—
Why is he only Level 39?
Garry tossed some dough on the counter, kneading one roll as his other two hands rolled and kneaded a second pile of dough. He could get it to good consistency within five minutes. The Drakes and Gnolls on the morning shift would come in at 4 AM to help out of course, but he liked getting the first batch of dough ready ahead of that.
He wore his poofy chef’s hat as he hummed in the dark kitchens. Starting his day. After this, Garry would oversee the bakery for the morning, but he had a very nice Drake who didn’t mind the Antinium Workers and Soldiers who’d oversee the morning shift.
After that, Garry would do some deliveries of his ‘special orders’ to his clients. He still did them. Comrei, Miss Biscale, and all the other Liscorians who’d visited his shop needed food. He could not do it for everyone, so he had to be circumspect about it.
That made Garry guilty. He had already had various officials inspecting his workplace for cleanliness and been told often not to use anything but Liscor-approved funds for his work. Nor, obviously, to give out more bread than one per person and such. People had been caught lining up to get more bread samples—that was a Watch matter, and Garry left it to them to figure out.
He didn’t steal from Liscor’s bakeries to feed his special clients. Nor from the Free Queen’s dedicated food budget. He didn’t need to.
Garry had Skills unique to his class.
[My Pantry Overflowed With My Deeds] was a big one. Every day, he’d wake up, assess the new and often rare foods in his personal kitchen, and make custom food for his special clients. And Antinium in the Free Hive.
Anything extra went to his employees. It was not uncommon for Garry to come around with tarts or food for them as they came off shift. More than one Drake and Gnoll had complained they were putting on weight. But that, of course, was another devious plan in Garry’s arsenal.
[Rested, Fed, Appreciated and Paid, My Workers Surpassed Mundanity]. Treat them well and they managed to feed a city with bread from one bakery. Garry had been told by the nice [Guardsman] assigned to his shop that it was…
 
——
 
“Hypnotizing?”
The Drake man, Gittorl, nodded as he watched the [Bakers] and [Cooks] at work, kneading dough, mixing more up, loading them into the massive ovens on huge wooden racks, turning them, taking them out, always a flurry of motion.
“You blink, er, Baker Garry, sir, and more bread appears. Like magic. It’s like a blur around me.”
Garry peered over his shoulder. If anything, he felt like everyone was taking it easy since they were nearing the end of the day. But he nodded respectfully to Guardsman Gittorl.
“They work very hard, Guardsman. I am pleased to know it is interesting to watch. Would you like your free loaf of bread?”
“Oh, um, thank you. The kids liked it a lot. Had the missus in a bit of a stir because they said it was better than hers, even if it’s free.”
Garry smiled politely. A [Housewife], if Gittorl’s wife was such, would be, what, Level 20+? He did not think most who had that somewhat rare class in Liscor passed Level 20.
He was a Level 39 [Baker]. There was a reason people lined up for his bread each morning, even if he was a filthy, weird Antinium bug.
“I am sure she could make better, but I have fresh flour and the many Skills of my talented employees at work. I could give her the recipe if you like.”
“Oh, thank you. I reckon that’d make her feel better.”
 
——
 
Which, of course, was the point. Make them feel better. It cost Garry nothing to reassure Gittorl’s wife that it was not a contest, or only a few seconds to write down a recipe.
Everything else cost money, but so what? Garry had been Santa at Christmas, and that had been important. When Erin had seen his vision, what he had intended, she had smiled. He thought about that Christmas. A lot, actually.
Oh, the Winter Solstice afterwards had been terrible. Garry had listened to the Free Queen giving orders as he stood with Runel and Pisca.
He was no warrior. Nor did he wish to be, even if he could have saved lives. He was no Pawn or Bird, and he admired his fellow Workers, but he was not them.
He was Garry. He made bread.
You didn’t understand what that meant. You didn’t understand how much. You didn’t understand what the bread was for. Being eaten, of course, but still. You didn’t understand.
Not yet.
…A question emerged if you understood the fiscal realities of bread. Where the heck was all this flour coming from?
Eggs, flour, salt, water—well, the water was easy. Just stick a bucket out the window if it was Liscor’s rainy-season. But the rest? Well, there was an eggless bread you could make, and Garry had experimented to find the optimal bread at minimal cost to ingredients, but you couldn’t get around the flour problem.
The answer to that, obviously, was the Antinium [Farmers].
Garry employed them too. The collective who had begun their work and learned to farm by trial and error were still churning out wheat even in the rains thanks to extensive work on primitive greenhouses and a bit of magic from Archmage Valeterisa to allow sunlight to grow the crops.
Also: Riverfarm. The Unseen Emperor was only too happy to sell his own wheat and eggs to Liscor, so for the moment, there was bread aplenty.
Not so across Izril. Garry talked to [Traders] and [Merchants] in the course of finding more recipes and acquiring ingredients. Most had avoided him, but after they found out he had gold over the course of the last year, they’d warmed to him. These days, most knew him on sight—by the hat if nothing else—and they talked about the state of Izril.
Things weren’t perfect.
 
——
 
Merchant Farri sold magical trinkets, not bread, but he was only too willing to chat about his travels. He wrinkled his nose as he polished a ring on his shirt and kept out of the rain.
“Oh, aye, it’s not nearly so good for food anywhere else. I’ve taken to buying up a bunch of supplies myself. Just long-term perishables, nothing fancy. Flour, cornmeal, you know? Now, if I’m lucky, I just resell it as it gets bad, little coin made or lost.”
“If you are unlucky, [Merchant]?”
Garry had some bread and cheese he had taken to the [Traders]. They were devouring it appreciatively, and he made sure their assistants got some too.
Farri Slightly, the Human, munched hungrily on the bread and cheese before sighing.
“If I’m unlucky? I’m making bread myself in my wagons! Or eating damn cornmeal. Some of the villages and settlements further from the trade routes are doing bad. Not a scrap to be bought at reasonable prices. Sometimes, I trade the flour at knock-down prices. Or, uh, give it away. There’s calculations to be made.”
He tapped the side of his nose as another Human merchant came over. She hesitated, eying Garry, and wiped her hands before accepting the food, but one bite made her come around to it. She interjected.
“You’re giving away goods, Farri? For shame!”
She was half-joking, but the younger [Trader] was new to the game. Farri gave her a patient, even patronizing gaze.
“Trader Mins, goodwill is everything in our business.”
“Oh, of course, but for free?”
Farri reached for another piece of bread with cheese.
“This is wonderful stuff. I shan’t need lunch—ahem! Better to be seen to be giving away your food and going a bit hungry than to have it all. That’s how you get [Thieves] or a village politely asking you to, ah, offload cargo. They don’t even want the merchandise or coin unless they think it’ll buy more food. That’s the most dreadful thing. Folk don’t turn to banditry or theft, not all of ‘em. But there’s desperation.”
Trader Mins shivered.
“Where, exactly, is this?”
“Oh, north of Reizmelt there’s Gulfwaters Ravine. Terrible area. It’s marked on our routes, I’m sure. Not just that, though. There’s spots all over, Baker Garry. And it’s not only for bargaining or goodwill! Twice I’ve dumped all my food as cargo and the [Bandits] have gone after that rather than my wagon.”
All the other [Traders] and caravaners were shaking their heads, exchanging similar stories, as Garry nodded.
“Your job is certainly dangerous, Merchant Farri. So people are this hungry, please?”
“North and south. The New Lands made it worse. Half the folk who would’ve hunkered down or found work nearby decided to risk it in the New Lands—or sold provisions to people wanting to stock up. Add that to the damn plagues and fires? I don’t go that far into the south, but I hear the Drakes aren’t doing as well. Plus, without the tribes…”
Garry was a fool. He knew he was, as someone who couldn’t even read two years ago. Even now, when he read books, he often had to get a dictionary to look up the really difficult words. He was practically illiterate when it came to reading philosophy, and he knew some of the Erin-movies that he was occasionally invited to watch in her [World’s Eye Theatre] went over his head.
But since he knew he was a fool, he listened, and Merchant Farri was very kind and explained these things Garry didn’t understand.
“Why, the tribes suffered that blow at the Meeting of Tribes, everyone knows that, Mister Garry. But think on it—most of ‘em either moved when a local Drake city attacked them or joined together. Made their permanent Meeting of Tribes in the center of the Great Plains. When one tribe leaves an area, what’dya think happens? Sure, there’s less mouths in the region, but most Gnoll tribes are self-sufficient. And what else do they do?”
Garry thought about it and thought about the goods the Silverfangs who’d camped here had provided and his own knowledge of the goods that flowed across Izril.
“Ah. They are herders.”
Farri was surprised, but nodded appreciatively.
“Exactly. More than one Drake city doesn’t realize how much of their meat or animal products come from Gnolls. Or how they take out monsters as well! Sure, Drake [Hunters] do better, but now there’s monsters attacking farms, and there’s no Gnolls to trade with—it’s been a hard winter. And the spring hasn’t helped everyone. Not everyone’s able to grow crops with the speed of a high-level [Farmer].”
Of course, Garry knew this. But having a [Merchant] tell him this, and realizing the Merchant’s Guild had maps of ‘trouble spots’ and areas where you could take a risk and sell goods like food at high prices, was illuminating. Garry, of course, didn’t talk to anyone about this.
Whom should he talk to?
 
——
 
Belgrade? Belgrade was at war in Hectval. Pawn? Pawn had his Painted Antinium to lead and created free bread. He was sympathetic, but often preoccupied with winning back Lyonette, Erin, or faith.
Anand was dead. Bird? Bird got bored if you didn’t interject Bird-based metaphors at regular intervals. The Free Queen was vaguely interested, but unsympathetic to non-Antinium. Pisca and Runel talked, but they didn’t have huge vocabularies. And Erin had been busy with the Winter Solstice.
Garry visited The Wandering Inn, of course, but he understood his moment to be part of the inn, to take Calescent’s spot, had come and gone. He didn’t resent it. He liked the Goblin a lot, and he’d come by and swap recipes with the [Spice Chef], trade for some of Calescent’s own ingredients, enjoy the inn. But he was no regular.
He was alone. Alone but for all the people and friends he made, his own community. What Garry truly was was independent.
He had no Erin Solstice to lead him. He had no one to report to, not even the Free Queen. There was no guide, no leader to follow, no road to forge save for the one he wanted. And this was fine by Garry. He had his own guiding light. He always had, he’d just had to develop eyes to see it. A heart to feel its brightness.
This was what Garry did on his off-days as winter ended and spring rains fell.
 
——
 
“You…want to be a merchant.”
Every head in the Merchant’s Guild was peering at Garry. He had brought his initial investment of fifty gold coins—you could apprentice in, but this was a deposit for fees and other things that proved you were solvent.
“Yes, please. I believe I must be as I am trading goods and services within Liscor.”
“To…to who, exactly?”
“Whom. And it is to other Antinium, of course.”
“Oh.”
The Gnoll [Guildmaster] did not like Antinium, so he’d sent out a senior [Merchant] within Liscor who was more amenable. The Drake brightened up as he tried to think this out.
“So you’d like to pay us for doing business within the Antinium Hives?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I think we can arrange that. Of course, there’s paperwork to fill out, but why don’t I have one of our trainees help you with that?”
For the rest of the day, Garry patiently filled out paperwork. They had to omit some boxes or just write ‘Antinium Hive’ for others, but the end result was him putting more money down for his annual dues and then the Guild informing him how much he owed them per transaction over a certain value.
The rather tired Gnoll trainee was a very nice young woman named Tiveria Silverfang. Garry got the impression she didn’t like her masters, but she did like the free bread none of them had wanted. She coughed into one paw.
“Er, how much business are you planning on doing that we’ll have to collect dues for, Trader Garry?”
“Oh, zero for now. But I have high hopes of business improving once we issue more Antinium with pay.”
She paused. None of the other [Merchants] were listening.
“But you said you did a lot of trading in the Antinium Hive!”
Garry smiled politely at her.
“I do. It is all very lucrative in terms of goods sold and bought. It is just not coin-based. Antinium do not use coins within our society.”
Her mouth dropped open. Tiveria twisted to peek at her master, but Garry had waited until everything was signed to say that. She bit her lip, then covered a smile as Garry’s mandibles rose higher.
“Now, Miss Tiveria, I would like to access the Guild’s many fascinating resources, please. And pay for copies?”
“Er, at once, Trader Garry!”
He ended up paying for copies of current maps, local prices, and such and walked out of the Merchant’s Guild. He did not return even after they sent him several letters asking if he’d come in and discuss the state of his finances and dues to the Merchant’s Guild. He just wrote back, politely, that he would assess his yearly incomes and certainly make all lawful contributions to the Guild. He had heard there was an annual party, and did they need him to bring anything special?
 
——
 
Garry liked to visit The Wandering Inn once a week. He often did it via the secret tunnel, because it beat waiting for the door, and he could march through the Free Hive with a wheelbarrow and a Chest of Holding in it and then come upstairs.
One day, Ishkr found him; he and Lyonette sometimes noticed Garry and came to say hello.
“Oh, Garry. Can I help you?”
The Gnoll saw Garry admiring some of the stacked and now preserved foods. He blinked at the Worker, but Garry just nodded.
“Hello, Ishkr. I apologize for coming in via the basement once more. I do not like the water.”
“Not at all, Garry. Can I get you a drink? Lyonette would love to see you.”
Garry walked by the old furniture and supplies in the basement; things Lyonette hadn’t put in people’s rooms like spare dressers and rat-free food stored away. Sometimes goods for transit, but not often.
Garry sat in the common room of The Wandering Inn and received a rather handsome cocoa drink which he savored. He wasn’t very hungry, and he listened to the people talking.
“Hello, Menolit. Hello, Mrsha. How are you doing?”
They came by, recognized him, did their own business, and he was just there. Garry was not very important, but they smiled at him.
He knew chatting to him was sometimes not important to them because, of course, he was not very interesting, and this was fair. It was also harder sometimes for Garry to be part of conversations.
Take in point this case. Miss Uriesta was a nice Drake who knitted a bit of magic into her creations these days. She was an original guest. Nothing had chased her out, and she’d become a [Magical Knitter] on the side. Just a bit of magic she claimed to have picked up from Erin now and then. She was in talks to maybe join Honored Deskie’s collective, but she wasn’t sure if she wanted to take the plunge into full employment.
Menolit was a successful business-Drake, but he came by because this was where he’d gotten his start. They were having a lively conversation on the New Lands.
“I’m telling you, it’s a trap. More and more I’m hearing about super-monsters—”
“There has to be a better name for them, Menolit.”
“Well, if there is, I don’t have one. Super-monsters, everyone. No magic. Limited food, and overcrowding! I’m sure all the idiots who rushed there are having a great time.”
Menolit’s stump of a tail lashed the floorboards as Garry sipped his cocoa.
“I hope they are, yes.”
The others nodded, but distractedly. Menolit sighed.
“It makes Liscor Hunted look easy.”
“Surely some groups are doing well. I have it from a friend, a half-Elf I knew since I was a girl—well, she’s barely aged a day—but she’s a pen-pal from Gaiil-Drome. We started writing each other after the first Antinium War. Back when they did care packages?”
Menolit made a gagging sound.
“Dead gods, were those the baskets of fruits and vegetables? I remember eating those for a month! Half-Elven generosity.”
“We got those in the tribes, even. I think I was pooping green for weeks.”
A Gnoll muttered. Garry smiled.
“It does sound very kind of them. What kind of vegetables?”
This time, Menolit hesitated.
“Er—I don’t recall. All kinds. What about your friend, Uriesta?”
“Oh, well, she always has the latest gossip, and she says the half-Elves are doing fine. It’s not easy, but bigger groups are managing. They can even sustain magic.”
Menolit rolled his eyes and pushed his half-eaten burger back.
“Oh, good for them. Glad the bigshots get to eat while everyone else starves.”
Everyone nodded dourly at that, and Garry interjected.
“Yes. One hopes they will help the smaller, less-big-shots.”
He was aware of a silence as they all turned to stare at him. And then Menolit grinned.
“I, uh, that was sarcasm, Garry.”
“I know. But it is my sincere hope that they render assistance anyways.”
The Drake’s mouth opened, and he glanced at Uriesta, who murmured.
“From your mandibles to their earholes, Garry.”
The conversation shifted after that, but that was the problem as Garry understood it.
 
——
 
He was aware of sarcasm. Or irony. Or black humor. It was just that because he tended not to employ it, every now and then someone would give him that supercilious, searching gaze.
Perhaps they suspected he was a fool or overly optimistic. Garry preferred to think of it in other ways. He understood the sentiments Menolit expressed, for instance.
He just disagreed it required sarcasm to say something or face an idea with hope. Perhaps it was naiveté. Garry would be the first to admit he was a very naivé person. For instance, he was nearly done with his preparations when the mysterious door came to him, and he knew it belonged to Erin Solstice.
He smiled, and opened the door without a moment’s hesitation. When he walked through and saw the [Innkeeper], her face alight with joy and pain and fear, he spread his arms and smiled.
The [Baker] was glad to see her. Just in case he died. Oh, yes.
It was a distinct possibility.
 
——
 
“I don’t understand, Garry. How—how are you in danger? You? Is someone trying to mug you or something?”
The [Chef] was too busy peering around the gazebo, admiring the grand space, to worry about his impending demise. And inspecting Erin. Oh. He gently reached out, then stopped.
“You are very hurt, Erin. May I hug you?”
She hugged him first, hard, and he was surprised how strong she was. She yelped when he hugged her back fiercely.
“Whoa, you’re strong! You silly guy. What…what’s going on, Garry?”
“I do not know what is going on in general, Erin. I am a very closeted bug.”
“Yeah, me too. I…okay, let me start from the beginning. I’m sorry I haven’t talked to you since the battle at sea, Garry. Lyonette—Lyonette knew I was okay. And you saw me on the scrying orbs, right?”
“I certainly saw an Erin Solstice, yes. But I am very glad to see you. What is this new Skill? It is very spacious. Have you considered decorating or using it as storage?”
He patted the gazebo, and Erin had to explain it didn’t work like that, to his vague disappointment. Then he sat and listened for a while.
Garry was a good listener, though he was relieved to know that he wasn’t wasting time here, otherwise he would have wanted to roll dough or prepare food while chatting. Erin hesitated.
“And then we stayed in Lemoste and, uh—things are good. Sometimes not perfect, but good!”
“I see. So you have made it somewhere safe and friendly. That is very important, Erin. I am glad, and I will keep this secret, of course.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded, as if it had ever been in doubt, and then looked him up and down. Garry had on his baker’s hat, an apron, and even, she realized, clothing. Perhaps some people objected to Antinium’s seeming nudity, because he had on some very widely cut work clothing—an oversized ‘shirt’ and pants that didn’t actually cover his back-shell. Purely ornamental.
He looked, well, like a professional baker. First of his kind. She was so proud of him, and she didn’t understand. Who would hurt Garry?
Whom did she have to tell Lyonette to kill? Erin exhaled.
“My Skill can do more than find people and make them tell the truth, Garry. I asked it to find the person who was in the most danger, and it said…you were. More than Rabbiteater or the Horns or anyone.”
His antennae waved as Garry sat there, and she swore there was a twinkle in his insectile eyes.
“Oh. I have been ambushed, bested by your Skill. I did my best, but I could not defeat you, Erin. Foolish me for trying.”
“Trying? Garry, what’s going on? Do you know you’re in danger?”
He shrugged, gazing down at the scars on her wrists, around her neck. What ‘good’ looked like to Erin.
“I was very much aware I was in peril, yes. Not immediate danger, but soon-to-be.”
“How can I help? Is it Roshal? Is it rival [Bakers]? Octavia can help; I let her down with her rivals, but she’s got a club. I’ll send Ishkr—”
“No, Erin. It is not that I am in danger now. I merely shall be. I have a plan I have been planning in secret for the last few months. Tomorrow, I think, or maybe today, I shall execute it. It is a risky plan, and clearly, death is possible, so perhaps I must reconsider using Runel, Pisca, and the others. But it is a thing I will do.”
A plan? He was so calm that Erin had to reset herself mentally. She took a breath, then saw how steady Garry looked. How he felt.
She had always had a sense for things. It had deepened as she levelled, and it worked on everyone. Well, almost everyone. Super high-level people were hard to read, like Zinni, and Erin couldn’t tell what Ulvama felt, but that was normal.
But Garry? She got not a trace of fear from him. Erin peered at Garry, then sat back.
“Tell me, please.”
He was only too happy to. In fact, as Garry sat forwards, Erin realized that the twinkle in his eyes was no illusion. Nor was his smile. He had a huge one, even jolly. And he wasn’t that fat, but if you stared at his stomach, the apron and folds of cloth, could you perhaps say he had a round stomach?
…No, that was a stretch. But for answer, Garry explained it all to Erin with a laugh. He said:
“Ho, ho, ho. It’s Christmas time again, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Garry an open-mouthed, round-eyed stare. Then she looked around.
“—No, it’s spring. I’m pretty sure it’s spring.”
“It is Christmas.”
“It’s n—oh. Oh. Oh, Garry.”
 
——
 
That was the plan. All of it. Garry had not forgotten last Christmas. Nor the one before that, but this last one he had been, for a short time, someone who gave gifts and watched people smile. And he had thought ‘how wonderful. How grand’.
Why must I wait an entire year to do this again?
Statistically, a year in this world was longer than an Earth one by a considerable margin! Nor was Garry’s plan merely ‘second Christmas’. He had been preparing meticulously for months, and he actually walked Erin through his preparations once she showed him how to conjure images.
“The Wandering Inn has stopped giving out food and supplies, especially healing potions, since the winter ended. So has the Unseen Empire, though they occasionally render aid to other settlements and people that come to visit.”
“Well…yeah. The winter’s over. Now that spring’s begun, people can grow food, can’t they?”
Erin sat on one of his counters in violation of health and food safety regulations, but Garry allowed it because he was only in an imaginary kitchen, rolling some dough. He put it into the oven because there was no sense in doing things wrong and turned to her, flour dust on his apron.
“That is what I hoped, Erin. But it turns out starvation and hunger is a year-round thing. Many villages need food. Always, yes?”
She ducked her head, and a shadow crossed her face.
“Yeah. In my world and yours. Even if there’s plenty in some places…okay, I get that. But where’s the food coming from? Liscor can’t feed other cities, Garry.”
“I am aware. I am also aware there is plenty of food to spare if one is careful. I have made Yellat Bread, which is moderately successful, and perfected my Daily Bread recipes, Erin. I also make Scaethen Bread, but it is very difficult, even now. I can only make two small loaves of that a day, so it is not sustainable…but I make plenty of bread for one Liscorian Mark.”
“One what?”
He showed her the new Liscorian Marks and she snorted.
“What, are people making new money these days? That’s weird. Looks sort of nice, though. Who made it?”
“Councilmember Lism was the creator.”
“Lism.”
She shook a fist at the air, and Garry went on as bread appeared from the ovens, hot and fluffy and ready to be eaten. He placed them on trays, which imaginary staff members took. Most to be stored in safe containers for the hungry lines. Some to store if it kept well. Antinium Workers trundled out of the back or down into a cellar that led into the Free Hive.
He wasn’t technically supposed to alter the bakery that way, but it let Antinium not crowd the street, and the Council turned a blind eye, if they knew. Erin watched as a single Worker carried a cart of bread down into the cellar.
“Wait a second.”
Embezzlement. Garry walked with the Worker as the bakery changed, showing her the Hive. The trays of bread went down, down past fascinated, hungry Workers, Soldiers, and into a kitchen where they were popped into a pantry enchanted with Runes of Preservation.
It wasn’t very big. But he didn’t take that much bread per bake, and only at the start and end of the day. No one noticed. Why would they? There was always enough bread, and what was stale could be ground up and re-used as bread crumbs or given to [Farmers] as feed.
Or Garry took some. Now, he walked over to some bread that had unacceptable bread mold, the worst enemy of his, on it. He tapped it.
“[Restore Food].”
“Wh—you can do that? That’s magic! Is that a kind of restoration? That’s way too high-level!”
The [Witch] shouted. Garry turned to her.
“It is a Skill, and it does not work on large things. Just spoiling.”
But now he had two carts’ worth of bread. His poor pantries couldn’t contain all that! So, Garry loaded the bread into a Chest of Holding he’d bought. He put the chest on a wheelbarrow and began to walk it again.
This time, he had to walk for a while, but it was good exercise. It was a long walk to—
“Hey! My inn! You dug all the way here?”
“Yes.”
“Wh—but it’s at the other end of the Floodplains!”
“We like having underground entrances. How do you think the construction crews get here each day?”
Like heck they were going to brave the damn rains over those rickety bridges. Only the most courageous Antinium did that. Garry rolled the cart up into the basement, then stopped. Erin was already goggling when he walked over to a somewhat-dusty dresser in the corner of her inn. Garry slid open a drawer…and began to pop loaves of bread inside.
“What? What? Whaaaaaaaat?”
He turned to stare at her, genuinely perplexed.
“Erin. This is your Skill. [Compartments of Holding].”
“Wh—yeah, but—I’ve never used it like that!”
Erin protested. She knew Numbtongue had hidden weapons around the inn, at least before it got moved, but this? Garry hummed as he worked.
“It is all, as I believe the Earthers say, free real estate. I have filled up a number of furniture items with bread. I do not think Ishkr or Lyonette notice, but I am sure they would understand. But I am not troubling them. They are very busy fighting Goblin Kings and such.”
That was a mere part of his plans. Then he showed Erin the maps and very lovely routes the Merchant’s Guild had provided to him. When she saw that, the [Innkeeper] grew quiet.
“Oh, Garry. You’re not…”
He had drawn, in red chalk, a weaving route heading north from Celum across as many places as he thought he could reach. From small village to small village that only a [Merchant] knew or places Garry had heard of. Through forests, under the High Passes, northwards…the first time would be short.
“Three days. All that remains is to take my paid vacation, which I intend to submit paperwork for. Then—”
When he looked up, she stood there, eyes locked on him, an expression of pained pride on her face. He wished it were not pained.
“Garry. I’ve always been so proud of you. So much because you’ve never stopped giving, and I forget.”
“You give in your own way, Erin. But I have bread to deliver.”
“It…it’s an amazing idea. I’m sure there are hungry people. But you’re an Antinium. Can’t you go to the Driver’s Guild or get the Knights of Solstice to do it?”
She hesitated, and he did not. Garry shook his head.
“They are busy saving lives. The Driver’s Guild I do intend to approach—to rent a wagon from. I have purchased the largest Chest of Holding I am able to, but I must go, Erin. After all…”
He reached up and tugged at a white beard which had materialized on chin.
“I must be Santa Claus. He comes when needed, does he not? Ho, ho, and possibly, ho.”
Her eyes filled up with tears. Erin whispered.
“So that’s why. But it’ll be dangerous.”
“I know.”
“You—you could wait, Garry. Christmas was beautiful, but it comes once a year.”
“I am aware, but I refuse to wait, Erin. If someone is hungry, now, they must be fed.”
“There are [Bandits] and monsters and—”
“Yes.”
He knew. Nevertheless, Garry smiled, and he was excited, not afraid. Concerned he might fail or be suboptimal, but he had to go.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice let him go after that. She had lots of advice for him, most of which involved getting Acid Jars from the inn. Garry got two, for monsters, but he was no fighter.
He did approach the Driver’s Guild to rent the wagon, of course. They were hesitant about giving him one, but his gold was good, and when he told them he needed no horses, they were surprised.
“Do you, er, have animals, sir? Not all’re fit to pull a wagon, even a lighter one such as this. Don’t you at least need a harness?”
The [Hostler] asked Garry, and he replied with a smile.
“I have a team already, thank you.”
His team were Flying Antinium. He would have done Corusdeer, but they were apparently not very easy to tame, and Flying Antinium…flew.
There were more than a few assistants that Garry employed these days who weren’t merely Free Antinium. He was sure that when the Silent Queen or Flying Queen sent their Antinium to the Free Hive, they were intended to be used as warriors, scouts, or experimental subjects for the Free Queen.
Kitchen staff was probably not their intended use-case, but Garry employed as many as he could justify. Oh, and a number of the Flying Antinium could fly.
Not just Pisca and Runel. One day, after the giant Harpy had led an army against the Goblin King and the mountains had stopped shaking, Garry had woken up to find two dozen Flying Antinium snoozing in his kitchen. He had, of course, done the responsible thing and asked the Free Queen for chambers to house the lot and given them jobs.
He didn’t know where the others had gone, but the Free Queen had certainly taken in more than he himself had. Another omission; when the Flying Queen asked, they pretended not to know where any of her subjects were.
That explained how some of them flew, gifted by the last Empress of Iltanus who flew into this reality with Skills approaching the power of the divine.
…He was pretty sure the reason Pisca and Runel flew was because of his bread.
 
——
 
Scaethen Bread was probably Garry’s other major capstone Skill of note along with his employee and pantry-Skills. It was a red, glowing loaf of hyper-kneaded dough.
The more you kneaded, the brighter and more magical it got. It required Sage’s Grass and more expensive ingredients to make the highest quality of it, but the main factor was just…kneading.
Garry had tried to get one of his non-Antinium employees to make it once. The poor Drake had kneaded for eight hours on-and-off and had to call off the next day due to muscle cramping from making one piece of bread after six attempts. But the result was worth it.
A finished loaf of Scaethen Bread was always small. Barely larger than your hand in diameter, and it looked underbaked. It was soft as a pillow, but you could taste the crunch when you bit into it. Perfectly baked at a low temperature of 146 °F for thirty-six minutes, it had a strange, magical aroma, and the taste…
Garry described the taste as ‘energy and Sage’s Grass’, but he felt like it missed a key word he lacked the vocabulary for. Pisca, who often ate it, or failed samples of it, as a treat, had a better description.
“Niceezzzz taste. Tastez like hard, good work. Successz.”
If you could turn that into a taste, then yes, Garry supposed it did. Scaethen Bread filled you up. A single loaf was enough to keep him full well past dinner, and it was also, he had to emphasize, magical.
It did things to you the longer you ate it. At first, it was just magicalish effects. Garry gave it to the [Farmer] Antinium and his employees in the kitchen, and he ate it himself now and then. He, personally, didn’t feel much of a change, but he was sure something was going on.
In Pisca and Runel? It was pretty simple: they flew.
In the beginning, it was glowing orange wings, magic enabling them to achieve the dream of Flying Antinium. But at some point that had stopped, and he’d sensed some subtle changes in their bodies. Maybe longer wings? Back physiology altering?
These days, they could buzz around or cling to walls when not working. No more effects had been observed, and he didn’t know if their powers wore off if they stopped eating Scaethen Bread. He sort of doubted it, because in some of the farming Antinium?
Well, at least one Soldier had begun speaking, and he was 99% sure that they hadn’t been altered by the Free Queen and had been mute since they had been created. Not everyone demonstrated the effects, and Garry was keeping his bread on the down low.
He didn’t have much, and he had a feeling the other Queens, including Xrn, would confiscate it if they knew he could make it or have him solely devoted towards making the bread. The Free Queen only demanded some regularly for herself, so Garry was bribing her to keep it secret. He had more important things to do. Garry hadn’t even told Pawn, either, because, well…
Pawn could make free bread. He didn’t really need more.
A bit of rivalry, that. Garry’s bread versus religious free bread, which he, personally, thought wasn’t as good as his. Anyways, the point was that when he gathered up a symbolic twelve Flying Antinium, all of them could fly.
“Pisca, are you sure you and Runel wish to fly?”
“Yessz. We must go with you, Head Chef.”
He was uncertain. They could stay, but a Silent Antinium [Novice Cook] was taking over for them serving the Free Queen, and the custom harness he’d had an Antinium make for them was sized to Flying Antinium.
It was going to look a bit silly with them, but six Flying Antinium had enough strength to pull the light wagon along. Six more would keep pace, trading off as needed. Garry was highly tempted to see if he could buy a glowing red [Light] spell to give to one of the leaders, but that would have been childish.
This was symbolic. He had packed a hat and beard in his bag of holding, but that was actually important.
“This will be a dangerous trip. The Humans may attack us, and there may also be monsters or [Bandits]. I cannot guarantee your safety, but we are attempting to feed those who are hungry.”
He gave a simple address to his company as they gathered in front of him. Rain pelted them as he stood next to the wagon in a street just off of Shivertail Plaza. People glanced at him, recognizing Garry by his hat, but he was just…calm. He surveyed the twelve Flying Antinium and went on.
“We are Antinium. We know what hunger is like. Not just hunger of our bodies, but hunger to see the sky. Hunger to eat something that tastes good. Hunger not to be a yawning chasm, alone, with nothing to live for. There are lonely people who require feeding. No one has gone. So, we must. If you become lost or hurt, fly back to Celum or Liscor. Do not put yourselves at risk. It is only bread.”
He patted the wagon where carefully-covered loaves of bread had been stacked up as high as he could; more were in the Chest of Holding. He had other bags in the wagon, but all of it was paid for by his personal funds, which were not unlimited.
Only the bread was stolen. Thus, Liscor’s most criminal Antinium clapped his hands.
“Let us go, then. Thank you all.”
He knew Erin could not watch him, but perhaps that was fine. She had promised to check on him tomorrow, and no one else was watching him.
No one at all. That was, Garry thought to himself, the ideal way to launch a surprise attack.
He had been a [Tactician] learning chess from Erin, after all. He just didn’t care for killing people.
Feeding them was better.
 
——
 
The only person who noticed Garry’s actions at first was, of course, the one who saw it all. Though she didn’t tell anyone, because, well, no one listened to her.
“You want to bring a what through to Celum? No way! No oversized cargo!”
Liska was grumping out that morning due to the rain and people trekking it in, and also freaking out because of a Flying Antinium scaring everyone in line. She had to keep shouting and using her Skills to stop them from stampeding.
Then they wanted to bring a wagon through? She snapped.
“I don’t care if you know it’s possible! The answer’s no! No! Go around and tell the Free Queen to shove—oh, hey Garry. Wait, you’re the wagon-guy?”
Garry waved at Liska through the door, and she changed tack.
“Well, I mean, c’mon, Garry! Give me a heads up! Okay, fine. [Door: Oversized Transportation]. Wait, how full is this wagon? Garry!”
She had to order everyone out of the waiting room so the wagon could come through the door, despite the impossibility of the doorframe. It seemed to just slip through, then Garry had to back it up as he told her he wanted to bring it to Celum.
Liska was swearing about the mana costs that’d have the door on low-power all day, and the delays, but she didn’t need to call in Lyonette to make it happen. Plus, it was Garry—and the red, glowing loaf he handed her smelled great.
“Aw—okay. Just for you, Garry. What’s this nice stuff?”
“Scaethen Bread, my specialty. You are very good for putting up with me, Liska.”
She smiled and waved that off, highly embarrassed, and actually leapt through the door to clear Celum’s people out. Only after she heard gasps and screams at the Flying Antinium and Garry rolling through did it occur to Liska that maybe this was weird after all.
“Wait, why are you going to Celum?”
Garry flicked an antenna at Liska like a wink. There was the clomp of Golems and a shout to ‘halt’ as he rode the wagon through the door.
“I am delivering bread.”
“Oh, cool. Nice. I didn’t know your bakery did that.”
She went back to sitting on the couch long enough to see Lord Xitegen striding up and made sure Garry wasn’t in trouble. Then Liska sat down on the couch and began to reorganize people, warning every city that mana was low for the moment. She didn’t think much of it until Lyonette came running to find her, and that was hours later.
Mostly, Liska had been just wondering who ordered that much bread.
 
——
 
The Liscor passage was quite easy, though Garry did note the imposition on Liska and reflected that moving the bread through to Celum and getting a wagon there would have been faster.
But the Humans panicked at the sight of Flying Antinium, and Lord Xitegen Terland was there very quickly. He did not like trouble.
“I do not like trouble, Antinium. Nor is Celum a city you can enter with impunity. Be told. What are you doing, and why should I allow it?”
Garry didn’t know Lord Xitegen at all. He’d seen him and heard he was a very important, very impressive man. He still had bandages from fighting the Goblin King, and Garry knew the Golems could probably break his wagon apart. Pisca, Runel, and the Flying Antinium like Cherry, Leafwing, Carla, and the others, were not actually that dangerous in hand-to-hand combat. They liked to strafe their opponents on the move. And he would not fight anyways because he thought Golems, like people, did not deserve violence.
Garry smiled from his seat at Lord Xitegen, who gave him an annoyed look. He lifted one cover on the wagon.
“It is merely bread, Lord Xitegen.”
“Ah, trade goods. And I should allow an Antinium to enter my lands and cause more inn-style havoc because…?”
He was peering around for Lyonette, ready for a fight, obstreperous. A nice word that Garry had just read in his dictionary.
But the Antinium knew his opponents. Sadly, in this battle, Lord Xitegen was outclassed, disadvantaged, helpless. Garry replied cheerfully.
“I would like to clarify, if I may, Lord Xitegen, that I am not trading this bread at all. I am giving it away. Ho. Hoho. Ho.”
Amazing how those three words rang a bell in some minds. Children glanced around, and even adults wondered why…?
Lord Xitegen didn’t recall the significance of the words immediately, but when Garry explained his route and turned over the map, the [Lord]’s eyes narrowed.
“Charity? That’s [Bandit] territory. Far too far outside the range of Celum or even Brigadier Forount’s commendable alliance of cities. No-man’s land. You’ll be attacked on sight.”
He stabbed a finger at Gulfwaters Ravine, and Garry nodded.
“I may be attacked, it is true, Lord Xitegen. But I will navigate that as I must. And if it is no-man’s land, then it is surely no problem, because I am an Antinium.”
“Hah. I didn’t realize you buggers understood humor.”
Lord Xitegen’s features twitched for half a second, then he handed the map back.
“And I should allow this because…? You’ll cause a scandal the moment you leave my city. You already have driven traffic to a standstill.”
His Golems loomed over the Flying Antinium, who fanned their wings, but Xitegen was a clever man. Garry put his four hands together politely.
“I believe, Lord Xitegen, that you will allow us passage now. And perhaps give us an escort, though I do not believe one is needed in your lands.”
“Why the hell would I—”
The Lord of House Terland began, then stopped. He gazed at Garry’s smiling face. Then at the wagonload of bread. Then at Garry’s map.
The [Lord] went pacing back and forth, and Garry took the time to admire the man’s thighs, which Bird had said he should inspect if he ever got the chance. Lord Xitegen pressed two fingers to the bridge of his nose. He spun back.
“Primera, scan that wagon for magic and have a sample of the bread tested for contaminants, poison, anything.”
Garry waited patiently and offered Xitegen a free sample of bread. The Thigh Lord sighed when he heard Primera report a negative.
“The glowing red bread is an unknown to me, Lord Xitegen. It appears to contain positive magical effects, however.”
“Yes, yes, and I see how much he’s…”
The Human [Lord] stood there, staring at his feet, until Garry politely cleared his throat. Then his head snapped up.
“Give them an esc—”
He caught his words, then gave Garry a flat, flat stare. He made a motion.
“Issue a public notice, Primera. The Antinium have passage through my lands, and that is not a guarantee of anything. I trust you will commit no crimes…Baker?”
“Chef Garry, Lord Xitegen. Thank you.”
“Hmph.”
The [Lord] spun on his heels and strode away. Garry heard commands being issued by the very surprised woman who commanded his militaries, then the streets cleared. He and the Flying Antinium began to roll through Celum towards the eastern gates.
All according to plan. The people of Celum were staring at the Antinium, calling for scrying orbs, checking to see if this was on the news—and it was not because no one was paying attention.
Yet.
Now word was spreading, and Garry rolled forwards until they were out of the gates. Only then did Runel buzz around him.
“Garry. Garry. Quesztion.”
She flew like a fly, left, right, buzzing around him as an open-mouthed [Farmer] nearly crashed his wagon into the wall trying to get away from the giant Flying Antinium.
“Yes, Runel?”
“Why did Lord Zitegen let uz go? I do not underztand.”
Garry stared ahead for a moment as the Flying Antinium got them up to a decent clip. He hoped they could keep the pace up; they wouldn’t be nearly as fast as horses without riding Skills, but they were moving fast already. Of course, all the Humans who saw his wagon panicked.
Chaos on the roads, but one of Lord Xitegen’s Golems was striding ahead, shouting the news.
Xitegen was an efficient man. A deadly foe, Garry was certain, for Drakes. Brave, intelligent, and he had never stood a chance. Garry responded to Runel kindly.
“He let us go, Runel, because he understood what we are doing.”
“Zo?”
“He has been hungry too, Runel.”
“Oh.”
She landed, after a moment, on top of the stacked bread until Garry shooed her off so she didn’t squash the top layers. He sat back and admired the blue skies, inhaling the spring air as word finally began to percolate into people’s brains.
There was an Antinium doing what? Slowly, he reached down and checked on his secret weapon. The hard part would not be Celum’s lands. The hard part would be when they reached the first settlements and tried to actually deliver their cargo. Around Celum, people had at least heard of the Antinium; past that? He and the Flying Antinium were true monsters of legend.
Yet Garry had a plan. He hoped he didn’t die executing it.
 
——
 
The first Human village was named Eress, and it was actually almost due north of the place that old Rheirgest had been. Unlike their reclusive, [Necromancer] sister-village, Eress was a more traditional farming hamlet. They should have been well-set, but mysterious crop blight had killed their entire fall harvest.
Only fish from the creek had kept them from true famine. Eress had a low, ten-foot wood wall, partly fallen inwards in places where the old wood had just rotted away, and no one had bothered to repair it. It was not a thriving place, but until now, it hadn’t been starving either.
It just…had no [Lord]. No city. No valuable goods that would be why [Merchants] stopped by. Anyone who reached levels above 30 would leave for somewhere better. But the village continued because it had been pleasant and safe enough. Not living near the High Passes.
The winter had been terribly long. Stores of coin had vanished, and belts had tightened. Now, anything that grew went straight into the pots, but that meant there was no coin to buy essentials.
All that to say that more than one soul had left, heading either for the New Lands; Celum, where there was said to be work under a [Lord]; or a magical door. It was, in fact, near enough to Celum that a City Runner could come pounding up the road with a missive for the [Headwoman]. When she read the letter and realized it was from none other than Lord Xitegen of Celum, they were shocked.
When they read an Antinium was coming their way—there was a panic. Half the village was ready to pack up and run, but he was apparently right behind the City Runner, Fals. In the end, everyone who couldn’t fight hid inside the cellars while the villagers grabbed bows and axes and pitchforks and took to the walls. Several spots immediately gave way from too many bodies, and it was then, as they were picking each other up, that the wagon appeared.
Give Lord Xitegen this: he had probably set up Garry’s arrival as best as possible. The Worker slowed the wagon as the Flying Antinium’s wings buzzed, then went quiet. He saw, in the distance, several bows being drawn back.
Garry had no armor Skills. He hadn’t tried to fight since Erin’s inn when the undead and Skinner had attacked. An arrow would kill him if it struck him in the head, but he just kept the wagon rolling forwards.
He had prepared the only way he knew how. His secret weapons were ready and deployed. And the villagers, squinting, called out.
“What’s that? T-those aren’t beetles. They’re like oversized flies. Dead gods, a dozen of ‘em!”
“No one loose!”
“What? They’ll eat us if they come nearer—”
“The letter said—”
“Damn the letter, look at that one! Wait. What’s with the one riding the wagon? What’s…on its face? On its head? Is that a—a hat?”
Several villagers of Eress shaded their eyes. They pointed, and the keen-eyed among them confirmed that, yes, it was a hat.
A red hat with a white stripe along the trim. And a poofball of white on the tip. And the Antinium Worker had something else on his face.
The kind of thing that made you look twice, because in your fear, this nightmare, you had to look twice and go ‘wait, am I really seeing that?’
The Antinium had a white beard he’d attached to his face with a bit of string. The fake beard waved in the spring breeze, and the bright red wagon gleamed under the sun. He’d been very particular about the color.
Garry hopped off the wagon a hundred feet from the village. He walked forwards, a bundle in his arms, and arrows drew back as he approached and halted, a dozen steps from the closed gates.
“Who—what are you, and what do you want?”
A nervous man called down from the walls, aiming a spear at Garry’s chest. The Antinium lifted the object up in his hands. They moved back, but Garry just spoke, his voice loud, carrying, and fearless.
Fals, watching with his breath drawn, saw Garry lift the loaf of bread skywards, and the golden-brown crust caught the light.
“Bread. I baked it myself. I would like to give you some, people of Eress, if I may.”
Perhaps they had not celebrated Christmas, but they had heard of the funny tradition in Liscor. Stories of an Unseen Emperor delivering food in the winter, and perhaps they had wished for the same.
The villagers glanced at each other as stomachs rumbled, and they mouthed.
Bread? From Antinium? 
It has to be a trap.
But Lord Xitegen had written…
“Why?”
The [Headwoman] called down to Garry and stared at him narrow-eyed, with the suspicion of someone used to shady [Traders] or dodgy travellers. [Thieves], not good strangers. She searched, with a [Detect Guilt] Skill, for any malfeasance, any trickery in him.
The Human woman shaded her eyes, though the sun wasn’t shining in her face. She blinked her eyes rapidly until the instinctive tears faded. One of the other villagers whispered to her, anxious.
“Canna? What’d you see? How many blotches?”
She shook the spots from her gaze and glanced back down just in time to hear Garry’s cheerful reply.
“Someone fed me when I was hungry once. Ever after that, I no longer wished to feel hungry, so I started making food. I was told you needed food, so I came.”
“We have nothing to pay you with.”
Canna shot back at him, shading her eyes, squinting. Garry shook his head.
“I do not wish for payment, please. This is free bread. Would you like a piece?”
He broke off a section of his loaf and happily inserted a piece into his mouth. They watched, entranced and uneasy, as he ate it. Garry called out.
“I have more.”
 
——
 
It took the villagers of Eress a while to open the gates. Longer still to try the bread that he and the Flying Antinium unloaded for them, and all the while, Fals watched and did not help.
Only when the nervous [Headswoman], Canna, took a piece and used some complimentary butter to spread on it and took a bite did they believe this wasn’t some trick. One look at her chomping down and half would have risked it, even if it was poisonous.
Garry believed it had worked when the first little boy peeked his head out of the cellar, saw his father eating some bread, and dashed out to take some despite his mother shouting at him to come back.
“I don’t understand. Why us?”
“You were close by, and I heard you needed food. It is not much, but I hope it helps.”
“It—it will. And it won’t go bad?”
“It will go bad slowly since I have [Slow Spoilage], but I do encourage you to store the bread in a cool, dry place, and then check it for mold. I estimate it will begin to grow stale in fourteen days.”
“Fourteen days?”
“Yes, I have tested my bread extensively. This is in the rainy season of Liscor, so it may be subject to change. Also, be very wary of mice and rats, please. Though rats are very edible.”
“They are that. But this’d do us for…we could bring in the next harvest and not have to dig up anything ahead of time. It’s good. It is good, right?”
One of the suspicious Humans staying away from Garry but eating the bread glanced at Fals. The City Runner raised his hands.
“I can only say what Lord Terland bade me deliver, everyone. Though I will say, I have been to Liscor, and Antinium do all kinds of jobs there. They don’t lie that I’ve heard, except for one, and he’s the weird one.”
He meant Bird, of course. The Humans eyed him.
“A whole city full of…?”
Fals winked at Garry when they turned back to the [Chef]. The Runner was not helping, merely observing, and Garry was grateful. Fals could not go with him the entire way, and so Garry had to figure out what worked.
“Would it help if I said this was courtesy of Liscor’s bakeries? Bread made by the city?”
“Drake bread?”
“Ah, I am sensing from your tone that this is not helpful. What if I said…this bread is a surplus the city does not need?”
“Why don’t they store it, sell it, or grind it up as feed?”
Why indeed? These were all good, logical ways to earn more coin, and Garry was going against the very principles everyone in Izril knew. The [Baker] thought about it and came back to his simplest answer.
“I have been hungry. I wish to give bread to people so they are less hungry, if I can.”
They were still doubtful, but the boy who’d emerged from the house gazed up at Garry with huge eyes, then blurted out.
“Are you him? The Santa man?”
Garry still had the beard on, and the Humans eyed him and whispered.
“Are you the Santa fellow? I thought he wasn’t…y’know, Antinium.”
A little candle lit up in Garry’s mind, and he knelt down. The boy promptly hid behind his parents, but Garry adopted a very serious tone of voice.
“This is fundamentally correct, little boy. I am…Santa. Though my name is Garry. I have a huge bakery in Liscor, and I give out toys and such to children every Christmas. Which is why I am here. See my wagon and twelve helpers?”
The twelve Antinium helpers fanned their wings as the Humans drew back. The little boy had an expression as he stared up at his parents that suggested he thought he’d been lied to and resented the fact greatly. He blurted out.
“Then why’re you here? It ain’t Christmas!”
“No indeed. I am here because…I deliver bread year-round. Presents are only on Christmas. Ho-ho. And ho.”
Fals’ mouth was visibly open as Garry completed his pitch to the villagers of Eress. If anyone had asked him if Antinium lied…the [Headwoman] passed a hand over her eyes again.
“I don’t see nary a splotch of guilt on him. I think it’s the truth, and if a Terland [Lord] is watching, the bread’s good. Eat up, everyone. I…I thank you, Antinium fellow. Mister Santa?”
“Garry. Santa is my middle name.”
“What’s your last name?”
“Claus.”
The look the woman gave him told Garry that he had to work on that particular falsehood. He didn’t know how Bird did it. But she drew closer.
“Thank you. It feels like something out of a tale. We’d heard of the Unseen Emperor and thought…but even that beggared belief. This really is all good? It ain’t a trick or poison or…?”
“No.”
“If it is, I’ll curse you across Izril.”
She looked him in the eyes, and he nodded seriously. Then the woman brushed at her eyes and blinked again.
“Ach. I trust you. Can’t look at you straight on.”
“I realize I am horrific to Human sensibilities. I do not mind.”
“Not that. I ain’t ever seen something bright as you.”
“Bright?”
“My eyes have [Detect Guilt].”
“Oh.”
He didn’t know how that applied; he had plenty of guilt. Did she know how many pies he’d dropped before his Skills that revolved around accidents? But Garry smiled as he saw the pace of bread-intake increasing.
One village down, nine more to go. Fals jogged out of the village with Garry.
“I’m paid to spread the word a bit more, Mister Garry, but I won’t be able to go much further than this. You’re approaching the limits I can run, and frankly, it’s bandit territory up north.”
“So I am told, City Runner Fals, but that is all the more reason to go. May I offer you a loaf of bread?”
The man grinned and demurred, but at the second village, he did have some and blinked.
“This is the best damn bread I’ve had…ever!”
Garry put his hands on his hips as the cautious villagers took bites.
“Yes. I am the highest-level [Baker] you have ever met. Why would you think otherwise?”
“Well, er, it’s free.”
“And why would I give away bad bread for free?”
That stumped everyone so utterly that they were still working on the many levels Garry was apparently wrong on when he pulled away.
 
——
 
On the first day, Garry managed to visit two villages and be attacked by [Bandits]. It turned out that if everyone knew the [Bandits] operated out of Gulfwaters Ravine, then they preferred to move south of there into a forest where everyone didn’t know where they were.
Garry eyed the shortbows and another pitchfork pointed his way and guessed they were hunting bows and farming implements. Even the Antinium Workers in the Free Hive had better bows.
These were not the Bloodfeast Raiders. Garry believed this on the grounds that the [Bandits] were poorly armed, not mounted, and looked worse-for-wear. Also, he believed the Bloodfeast Raiders didn’t have children.
Those only appeared after the [Bandits] had surrounded his wagon and fired a few arrows—mostly into the bread stack. All the Flying Antinium were tensed, on the ground, ready to buzz upwards.
Garry had a jar of acid in his bag of holding. He did not reach for it. Instead, he spoke calmly to the leader, who was demanding he get off the wagon.
“Excuse me, sir. I do not have any gold for you to take. My cargo is bread.”
“I said get off the wagon. We’re taking everything, got it? Just back off and we won’t fill you full of arrows!”
The man was visibly nervous as he shook the pitchfork at Garry. The Antinium scared the [Bandits], who backed up every time one of the Flying Antinium moved a wing. One was motioning the children to get back, but they all had eyes on Garry’s valuable cargo.
The bread.
Garry slid from his seat and was herded away from the wagon. Then he saw someone rush forwards and cut the cords. They exclaimed.
“It’s filled with food. Mit, look—”
“Shut up. Grab it in case there’s more. There’s no horses, so get it back to—”
Their leader was having trouble organizing everyone. Half the [Bandits] rushed forwards to grab food, and Garry calculated that if there was a moment to attack, it was probably now. Certainly, Runel tensed, but he just put out a hand in front of her. The [Bandits] were hauling the bread away when he spoke.
“I baked that bread, and it is my intention to deliver it to the other villages along my route. So I will please ask you only to take a certain amount for yourselves.”
He stepped forwards, and the weapons snapped back up. The [Bandit]’s leader jabbed with the pitchfork, the tines nearly grazing Garry’s apron.
“You’re not taking anything. Just—just back off and go back wherever you came from!”
“No. I must insist on keeping the bread. It is needed for other people who are hungry. I observe you and your people are hungry. This is what the bread is for, but you cannot have it all.”
The altercation had swung the group’s guards back up. Garry saw more than one person scramble up on the wagon to aim down at him. He stepped forwards.
“Do not step on the bread, please.”
“Get back. Back, I said!”
The pitchfork thrust at his chest again, and Garry caught a tine. He saw the Flying Antinium tensing out of the corner of one eye and raised his other hands.
“Excuse me—”
“Stop eating bread, you idiots! Get the kids back!”
“I would like to state—”
“Get lost! Get back or we’ll kill you! We ain’t warning you twice—”
Garry thought about Erin, then drew in a breath.
“EXCUSE ME.”
Two bows twanged. One shot went wide, and the other arrow, stone and crude, hit Garry on the shoulder.
“Ow.”
It bounced off his carapace, and he wondered if it could have even hurt a deer. Probably meant for rabbits. Garry spoke into the ringing silence.
“I am Garry, the Chef. Also Santa. I have been delivering bread to hungry people, and this wagon’s bread is for you. But not all of it. Please leave me and my helpers the rest that we might feed people in need. Thank you. Also—”
He dug out his fake beard and attached it under his chin. Then the hat. The [Bandits] stared at him. The surreal Worker standing there deepened his voice.
“Ho, ho, ho. Merry Christmas.”
When his mind finally processed that this wasn’t a dream and after a surreptitious pinch, Mit, the [Bandit Leader], called back, licking his lips.
“What, you’re just giving out…food?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because people are hungry.”
“That’s…not a real reason.”
“It is a very real and good reason. If someone is hungry, should you not feed them?”
“Hah! We’ve starved this entire damn winter and no one’s fed us. Not our nobles or anyone else.”
Someone spat into the dust of the road, and Garry saw angry eyes peeking over a veil at him.
“If that is so, then it is a terrible thing. But I have come, because I had to. I mean to feed all those who are hungry.”
“Including us? Mighty convenient.”
Cynicism was warring with suspicion on Mit’s face, but Garry spoke without a hint of irony, just like he had to Menolit, and now they were all eying him for a hint, a break in his tone or features, foreign as they were. Surely, there had to be…
“Including you. Which is why I am pleased to meet you, though not that you have stood upon my bread and wish to take more than you need. Please, give the rest back.”
“Or what?”
Aha, a splendid dialectical counter. Doubly effective with all the pointy metal objects aimed at Garry. He didn’t miss a beat.
“Or you will no doubt take all the food, which you cannot eat before it spoils. There is more than enough in the Chest of Holding, and you will not be able to eat it despite the lesser preservation on the chest.”
“A Chest of Holding! Do you hear that, Mit?”
They grew excited, and Mit jutted out his chin, smiling now with clear relief.
“We’ll have that and maybe leave the wagon to you. How’s that sound?”
“No. The Chest of Holding contains more bread than you need. I insist you let me allocate the bread to you as well as appropriate supplies.”
At this point, some of the [Bandits] began checking the trees, even the ground, on the suspicion that Garry had to have backup. Mit clearly had the same idea, because he licked his lips, casting around.
“What’ll you do if we don’t agree? We’ve got you surrounded and outnumbered.”
He probably should have just run Garry off at blade-point or opened fire, but the kids were watching, and besides, this had that dream-like quality of surreality that occurred when things didn’t go how you expected. So everyone was listening as Garry returned evenly. He didn’t pause. As if he had no expectations whatsoever and thus could react to the most absurd moments that he took seriously.
“Well then, Bandit Leader Mit, I suppose you will then steal my entire cargo and I will be forced to return without the bread as I will not fight you. Nor will my helpers.”
We won’t? Pisca, Runel, and the others clearly thought they had a chance, even surrounded. Mit grinned in relief, showing some rather excellent teeth. He rubbed at his chest, and Garry saw how badly his clothes fit on him.
Thin. The pitchfork was clearly too heavy for him to lift for long, so he rested his weight on it.
“Sounds good to me.”
“This will happen, then, Mister Mit.”
The [Bandits] were turning to grab the supplies and dig the Chest of Holding out when Garry added pointedly and sharply.
“Other villages will starve because you have stolen the bread that could have fed them. I take the fact that you are [Bandits] as a sign you are desperate and need food. I did not think you murdered children.”
Mit’s head snapped up, and some of the kids watching stirred.
“The hell did you say to me? We’re not killing any children.”
Unless the Flying Antinium…? His confusion was clarified by Garry.
“I see you have children in your company. You will feed your offspring with the bread you hoard, that you cannot fully use, and others’ children will starve as a result. I knew [Bandits] were criminals. I did not think they were monsters.”
“We’re not killing any—shut up.”
Mit was rapidly losing patience with Garry. He lifted the pitchfork and thrust it again only to have it stop dead when Garry caught it. The Human tried to yank the pitchfork back, but it was like a vice held it. Garry pointed a finger at the children.
“I will give you enough bread to feed you for a considerable amount of time. But if you steal that bread, children will die. Is that what you want, Mit?”
“Get off. Get—no, that’s not what we’re doing! We’re just protecting ourselves!”
Mit realized he was arguing philosophy with an Antinium with a white beard and a red hat. Ridiculous. Surreal. But the Antinium wasn’t backing up as someone jabbed him with a quarterstaff. If anything, he got louder, and he was speaking to the children now.
“It is very simple, bandit-children. No one will buy this bread. I doubt it is very economical to sell. But if you do not take all of it, some other children whose stomachs are rumbling as loud as yours will get to eat it. Are your parents bad people?”
“Don’t listen to him. Get back in the trees.”
An adult shouted, and more people prodded Garry. But the Antinium was just yelling louder.
“Are they? Or are they murderers? I am giving people free food, and I will not go. If you rob me, then I will not come back. And then you will all go hungry. Let me go and I will return, I promise.”
That made them hesitate. Mit was laughing.
“You’re insane. A lying, talking bug-person. Kids—”
“Do you believe in Santa Claus, children? I do not think you have been naughty. I believe it has been a hard year, but surviving is not naughty. This is wrong, though. Help me convince your parents—”
That was it. Mit punched Garry before he thought better of it and regretted it because he felt like he nearly broke a knuckle on the hard face. Garry stumbled back a foot.
“Ow.”
The Flying Antinium instantly opened their much bigger mandibles and fanned their wings, and the [Bandits] fell back a step. Mit was about to pant at someone to just grab the chest and go when a voice spoke up.
“Dad…is that Santa?”
Mit closed his eyes. And Garry saw a boy peeking at him, who had heard that tale, perhaps written a letter to King Fetohep. Like the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, the stories that children passed along and told each other were the ones they loved the most. And Santa…
The [Bandit Leader]’s face was of a man suddenly ambushed, in pain. Garry was not the sort of Antinium who would kick a man when he was down.
Physically. He adjusted the beard and waved at the boy.
“Hello, child. It is I, Garry Santa Claus. Tell me, are you hungry?”
Mit ran back, but the boy was staring at Garry. And his eyes were on the bread. Garry walked forwards, and the moment to stab him was in the reflexive jerk of arms. Then—it was past, and he was in the moment that Erin Solstice had claimed. Chaos, when he could walk past the swivelling [Bandits] and take a loaf of bread that thankfully didn’t have boot dirt on it, just the covering. He unwrapped it and broke a piece off.
“It is a very good bread. But you must eat it slowly to avoid straining your stomach. And I have bread here. I would like to give it to all the good children.”
The boy looked as hungry as the others. He hesitantly took the piece as Mit almost grabbed for it, but then the boy gazed up at Garry’s face.
“I’m not a good kid, though.”
Guilt was written across his little expression, and Garry bent down and tugged at his beard.
“Nonsense. I am Santa, and I can tell these things. But your father is trying to do something he thinks is good and is in fact very mean. I hope you will help me change his mind. Also, bringing children to a bandit attack is very amateurish.”
He added that last bit just on general principle. Garry didn’t want to encourage banditry, but someone had to say it. The boy peered up at his father.
“Dad…”
Mit tore at his hair and glanced around. He didn’t know what to say, so Garry nodded.
“Help me unload the bread and tell me how many people are in your camp, Mister Mit. I have a very nice fish paste that goes well on the bread.”
No one moved, so he began unloading bread himself until the Flying Antinium came over. Then the [Bandits] couldn’t quite look at him. But that was alright. Garry cut a piece of bread and added condiments, then began handing out sandwiches.
 
——
 
He left them with a lot of bread and bags of goods. More than they thought. The [Bandits] were staring at his wagon as the Flying Antinium began to re-hitch themselves to the harnesses, but Garry wasn’t done.
“I hope these supplies put an end to your need for banditry, Mister Mit. I do not think you are very good at your class. Also, I would have the children stay at your base with custodians rather than commit your entire force to the raid, but I do not wish to encourage such things.”
The man was giving him the strangest look ever. At least he could meet Garry’s eyes.
“You’re…stranger than even the stories, whomever you are. You really came all this way to give bread out?”
“Yes. I am pleased you did not rob me.”
“Hard to do that. I’m…sorry. Half of us ran off. Don’t know if they’re dead of starvation or had to steal or what. We had to start jumping people. We wrote to our [Lord], and we paid our taxes. But no one ever came. House Everight should’ve given us…but old Lord Toldos is dead. I think we were just forgotten.”
He spoke as if expecting Garry to lecture him about excuses or failures, but Garry didn’t know Izrilian geography or politics. He just made sure Mit’s son, Berry, was munching slowly on the bread. Then he turned.
“I will come back. Next time, please just wave at me. Or—”
“You won’t come back. Thank you. Please come back. Maybe this is enough to—the fields are barren, though. But maybe…”
The others were gathering around. Now trying to ensure Garry would return. But the [Chef] just replied with the hint of a smile.
“If I am ambushed again, I will hurt your feelings again. And your children’s. I apologize if I have caused undue mental anguish. I am not a very nice person, you see.”
Mit stared at him, and Garry climbed back into the wagon.
“Oh, and please eat the glowing bread quickly. It spoils fast, but it is tasty. Thank you for not taking everything.”
He flapped the reins and called out.
“Now, on Runel, on Pisca, on Fred, on Cherry, on Leafwing, on Carla…”
The Flying Antinium began to trot off, and the [Bandits] stared at him, some pinching themselves for the umpteenth time. Mit stood there, with Berry under one arm, until he finally croaked.
“Let’s—let’s get this back to the village.”
Only when they had lugged the bread and other bags of supplies—jars of condiments because one could not eat bread alone—back to their village did the [Bandits] get a final surprise.
Garry had added one final ingredient to his gifts after consultation with Erin and some thought. How did you do the most good?
‘Feed a man for a day and you feed him for a day. Set him on fire and you keep him warm for the rest of his life.’
Garry had felt like Erin had bungled the quote slightly, but he hadn’t wished to correct her. But he had taken the concept and gone to his Antinium [Farmers].
The final bags contained seeds and a note on top in Garry’s actually semi-messy handwriting. He used to have good handwriting but writing countless lists and recipes meant he was a bit slapdash these days.
When Mit managed to decode it, it read:
 
Liscor’s Public Bakery in Liscor is happy to buy all ingredients at reasonable prices. Please inquire with the Merchant’s Guild for potential trade-opportunities. Please ask for ‘Trader Garry of Liscor’.
 
——
 
Garry hummed to himself after they escaped the [Bandit] ambush and retrieved his list. He rubbed at the chip on his shoulder and crossed out a name.
“We will be going west at the next fork, everyone. I believe there are less-starving [Bandits] there. Oh, wait. What is that?”
His head snapped up, and they all froze as something rustled in the forest. Then something hork-quawked as the foliage moved.
A Garbichug, quite big and quite noxious, waddled out of the bushes where it had been foraging. Garry and the Flying Antinium stared at it, and he lowered his hand.
“Oh. Phew.”
The Garbichug sniffed the air and brightened when it detected food. It waddled forwards fearlessly.
“Hork-awk!”
The ‘awk’ was of Garry nailing the open mouth of the bloated, most disgusting bird with an acid jar. He watched it roll around then go still and sat back down. One of the Flying Antinium scuttled over and cautiously began kicking it; they only died when you got the acid directly in their mouths. Garry shook his head as they continued onwards.
“I must bring more acid jars next time. How many of them are there?”
Bird was right. They were really gross.
 
——
 
By the time Garry made camp with his little helpers under the moonlight and ate—what else—bread, he was a news story.
Drassi covered it on Channel 2 News, whereupon it was picked up by Channel 1 News who immediately pretended it was breaking news. Whereupon Drassi kicked open the doors to Channel 1 and had a screaming match with Sir Relz to the side of the camera, but you know what that was?
Entertainment. Garry had plenty of room in his life for entertainment; he had a scrying orb installed in the Liscorian Free Bakery kitchens, and it had cut down on fights immensely, though you only let it be on for mindless work. A lot of unwatched pots boiled over otherwise.
But he, personally, didn’t care. Nor was he in a region where anyone could actually send a team to interview him. The very nature of his delivery was, well, that no one cared about this place.
The point was, he wasn’t top-tier news, but he was certainly captivating to the nightly audience. An offseason Santa.
You know whom he was most captivating to?
The Wandering Inn.
The moment Lyonette heard about Garry being in Celum, she went around interrogating everyone she could find, demanding to know who was responsible or at least aware of the Garry expedition of mercy. She refused to believe no one had known about it and even went to bother Emperor Laken Godart and the Knights of Solstice.
But they were just as shocked as she was to learn that The Wandering Inn wasn’t behind Garry. No one had given him money, helped him smuggle bread, or even found him a map! Of course, everyone proceeded to blame Erin, but even that was wrong.
 
——
 
Erin had no idea of what Garry had been planning either. But because she now knew, she spent the rest of the day worrying.
Worrying, but mostly confident that Garry would be fine. Because he was a tough Antinium, and he had the Flying Antinium, emergency acid jars, and unless the Bloodfeast Raiders appeared, he wouldn’t be in much danger. Right?
He could always ditch the bread. Griffins like bread. Right?
Matha was actually out of the bathroom by now, and that was how Bowom and Ulvama learned where Erin was; she’d been holed up in the library searching up whether Griffins ate bread in between teaching the bands bread-based songs.
Bowom had been keeping Ulvama company as the upset Hobgoblin wandered Lemoste. Mostly because he’d lost a rock-sword-wand game against Roja and Eurise. You’d think having six fingers gave some kind of advantage there! However, negatives aside, it meant he was in place to observe an interesting phenomenon.
The moment a scowling Ulvama had been told Erin was off library-hunting by Matha, he saw a curious expression flit over the Hobgoblin’s face. It looked like…paranoia? Fear was too banal, and Bowom refused to classify generally; you might as well ask if a patient was ‘breathing’ as signs of ‘life’.
Fight or not, Ulvama made a beeline towards the library, and just inside the huge stacks of books was Erin Solstice, sneezing from all the dust she’d inhaled. She hesitated when she saw Ulvama.
“Um.”
“Hello.”
The [Shaman]’s face was frosty, but she had said hello. Erin brightened a bit, then blinked. Clearly remembered why Ulvama was angry and scuffed her feet.
“Ulvama, I’m stupid and an idiot and I shouldn’t have bothered you. Will you forgive me? Please? Or—or at least talk to me so I can apologize?”
Ulvama squinted at Erin, then chopped Erin’s head. Hard. The [Innkeeper] yelped.
“Hey, that hurt! I didn’t have my [Reinforced Structure] on!”
The Hobgoblin shook her hand out behind her back.
“Why not all the time, stupid? You’re stupid.”
“Yeah, I am.”
“Very stupid.”
“Absolutely stupid.”
Erin ducked her head, and Ulvama gave a Pisces-level sniff, whomever Pisces was supposed to be.
“I’ll forgive you, because you are incredibly stupid and I’m an adult. Why are you looking up Griffins eating bread in the library?”
The [Innkeeper] peeked up at her, and Bowom tugged at his upper lip thoughtfully. He couldn’t read emotions like Erin or Ulvama, but he had dated an [Angry Druid], Vrilla. Ulvama hadn’t seemed like she was ready to forgive and patch things up, but what did he know?
A lot, so Bowom listened while pretending to inspect some books on display as the two talked.
“I, uh, was using my [Pavilion of Secrets] when you left. I felt like it was time to check in on people.”
“You didn’t talk to the Quarass or anyone else?”
“Nope, no. I—well, it’s hard to explain. I asked it who the person most in danger was that I cared about and—”
“You what?”
Oh, here came the ear-pinching. Ulvama glared at Erin, but the [Innkeeper] had activated her defensive Skill and protested.
“It’s a good idea, Ulvama! And—and—you guess who it was?”
“Mrsha?”
Genuine worry until Erin shook her head, and Ulvama let go of her ear.
“No. Garry.”
Her face had all the graveness of a Tallguard commander preparing to repulse a clowder of cats or a Creler nest. She gazed at Ulvama, and Bowom saw the Hobgoblin shift out of the corner of his eye.
“Um. Who Garry?”
Ooh. Bowom experimentally poked at the air and tried to cut it with a scalpel, but no good. The [Shaman] filled the silence, a touch breathless.
“I never met him. I don’t know all your friends. Sorry.”
“You did! I bet he came to the inn. He’s the guy with the baker’s hat. Remember? He was in the baking competition with all the Goblins during the Siege of Liscor and—”
“I wasn’t there. When did he come after that?”
“All the time. He was just—there. You have to have seen him. The cooking competition with Tyrion! Remember?”
“I don’t. Sorry.”
More silence. Bowom swished his scalpel experimentally and weirded out a [Librarian] who stared at him through the bookshelves. Ulvama cleared her throat.
“How is he in danger?”
“He’s delivering bread.”
Bowom smiled to himself. You had to hand it to her. Excellent use of language and timing. Perfect delivery of everything and nothing, he was sure. Just begged the questions. He liked hanging out around linguistic masters.
A fascinating thing. Erin and Ulvama began to chatter about an ‘Antinium’, ‘delivering bread’, in ‘Liscor’, all concepts that Bowom found fascinating.
Especially that middle one. Who wanted bread delivered? He followed them back to the guest house, interjecting a few questions here and there, noting that their rift was, if not patched up, then glossed over.
When Erin began to argue with Bowom that bread was worth being delivered, especially Garry-bread, she came to a realization.
“Oh snap! You guys don’t really use wheat! I’ll make some bread with my exchanged ingredients! How about bread and cornbread and…”
And then she was baking with some of the flour-stuff she’d introduced to Dretonamis. Which Bowom was content to let her and Ulvama work with and talk over until she mentioned it was explosive.
Then he squatted outside the window, making flour bombs with Matha, until a member of Lemoste’s security yelled at them. They hadn’t even been that big! Bowom retired to a fur couch as he listened to the two talking. He noted Matha was paying attention, though she just stared at the two of them until they made her scrub down the Corumdon Beetle outside, who’d gotten mucky from hauling clay.
“So he’s going now.”
“Yeah, I’m checking in tonight. He’ll be fine. And I don’t want to distract him. Besides, Pavilion-Me told me that there’s a limit. I can’t just keep resummoning someone over and over.”
“She never said that.”
“Yeah, she’s a jerk like that. Add that to our notes on her. Makes sense.”
“What…what is Pavilion-You like, Erin?”
Ulvama stopped kneading dough as Erin stared out the window at Matha slipping in the clay suds, trying to think.
“Imagine someone smart as you—maybe smarter—who knows all your weakpoints. And the only reason she’s not using it all is because she has to help. Or she wants to see something interesting.”
Ulvama shivered. Erin murmured.
“I wish you could meet her and kick her butt.”
“I’ll kick yours for you.”
“…Sorry, again, about the armpits thing.”
Poke, poke.
“Say it again.”
“Double sorry.”
“Hmmf. So, he’s delivering food. That’s…good. Very nice. Just because they’re hungry.”
Erin smiled, then, and it lit up the room. Bowom swore it was a palpable increase in ambient light.
“He’s the best. I just hope he’ll be alright. I’m…”
“You should check on him before dinner, maybe.”
“Good idea. Thanks, Ulvama. Do you, um, want to say anything to him? I offered to boon him even though Nerry needs it, but he said he’d be fine. And he had a plan!”
“Um. Um, maybe hello? Ask if he knows me.”
“He definitely does. But I’ll say that!”
After getting the loaves of bread in the oven and instructing Ulvama on when to take them out, Erin vanished to check on Garry. Bowom admired the sun setting in the distance as he walked over to help clean the kitchen. Ulvama was peering down at the cutting board. Only when six fingers crab-walked over and snatched a piece of unused dough up did she jerk back. Then smile at Bowom.
“Erin says dough shouldn’t be eaten before being baked.”
“I respect her opinion much like [Healers] who tell you to get bed rest or hydrate more.”
Bowom cheerfully bit into the dough, and Ulvama pulled a piece out she’d been hiding. They chewed on it solemnly.
“…This pretty good.”
“Oh yes. I can’t say it’ll be better than this bread, but the appeal is there. What’s the danger?”
“Uh, you get Matha-sick, maybe?”
Bowom thought about it and carefully inserted another piece into his mouth. They watched Matha slipping again as the Corumdon Beetle shook suds off its body.
“Since we’re not Matha, I’ll take those odds. So! Forgiven Erin?”
“Eh, she’s sorry.”
Ulvama shrugged and glanced at Bowom, but his face was utterly consumed by chewing dough. Then he ate a bit of eggshell. She made a face at him.
“What? I’ve never seen an egg so big before! Chickens. Damndest things. This tastes horrible, by the way. So, all mended, really? Even though she doesn’t get what she did wrong?”
This time, the Hobgoblin visibly hesitated before scowling and looking the other way.
“I’ll talk with her later. She…she’s worried about Garry. Her people. Her tribe. I have to be here in case he gets hurt. Or dies.”
“How likely is that?”
“He an Antinium leaving his city. It’s Human lands to the north.”
Ulvama’s face was bleak, and Bowom eyed her. But it was Matha who popped up outside the window, clay in her hair, and spoke.
“What’s that mean, Ulvama? I don’t get why it’s a problem.”
“Aaah!”
Ulvama screamed, and Bowom saw her jump back, smack into a counter with her hip, and then grab it in agony. Matha wilted as the Goblin cursed her out in her own language, but Bowom scratched at his chin.
“I’m not an expert myself, Matha, but I suspect it’s rather like if a bunch of Dretonamis Fraerlings walked into Lemoste’s most haughty groups. But a lot worse. If a bunch of Tallfolk entered our villages without asking.”
“Oh. Oh. I get that, sort of.”
Different species. Ulvama blinked at Bowom, and he waved at her.
“Yes, we don’t mix with other species much. I see the problem, then.”
Matha nodded eagerly.
“Can we help Erin? Is she stressed?”
“She’s fine. I’m helping her. Go finish washing Beetle.”
The pestering annoyed Ulvama, who was rarely as short with Matha as Erin was. She went to close the window on Matha’s fingers until Bowom interrupted as he put an experimental piece of dough in the oven to bake his own bread. He wanted to know what happened if he rolled it up into a cylinder and put something inside.
“And why are you upset?”
The [Shaman] hesitated, ears twitching. Matha scrunched up her face, staring at Ulvama then Bowom. A glower and poke, which he blocked with his hands. Ulvama turned away, wiping her hands on her apron.
“It’s fine. Erin needs to check on her…tribe. She does that. It’s one of her best qualities. She loves everyone she gets to know. Makes her enemies friends, some of them. Someday, she’ll care about you like that, Matha.”
Ulvama’s head rose as Matha opened her mouth and pointed at herself, but the smile on Matha’s face evaporated as Ulvama leaned over the windowsill. She spoke down to Matha with a terrible smile.
“When she does, she’ll make you into a hero of your own story. She cares about everyone equally.”
The Hobgoblin finished speaking and stuck her head out of the window and took in the breeze passing through the city. Matha stared up at her until the Corumdon Beetle nudged her, and the Hobgoblin had no bow. But Bowom wagered she shot down at least a few Fraerlings passing by.
“Ah, makes sense.”
That was his comment. He went back to watching his bread burning, and Ulvama waited there. Until Erin Solstice came back, cheeks flushed with delight, eyes sparkling.
“He’s alive! He’s delivering bread to [Bandits]! Like you, Matha!”
“Hey.”
 
——
 
Two days later, Garry returned to Liscor just as planned. He didn’t expect a party, but there was one.
“Front-line newspapers! Tell me it was from our bakeries. No, even if it wasn’t, just lie!”
Councilmember Lism was in campaign-mode as he grabbed Garry, posed for a [Magic Picture], then someone was hurrying his way.
“Baker Garry? I’m with Channel 2 news. [Action Reporter] Rubri. Can you tell me why you decided to deliver bread wearing a Santa costume to villages in the north? You’ve created a lot of outrage.”
“Garry! Garry! The Free Queen demands your presence!”
One of the Antinium was shouting as Lism tried to get into the camera frame. Garry was being beset from all sides. Ishkr appeared out of the crowd.
“Invitation to go to the inn tonight, Garry?”
“I may be busy, Ishkr—excuse me, excuse me.”
Garry had to stand up and shout before everyone fell silent, expectant. He adjusted his hat, checked his empty wagon, then nodded at the Flying Antinium.
“Thank you for your attention. I must now go back to work. Please direct all inquiries as to my motivations to Councilmember Lism.”
Then he hopped off his wagon and strode back towards the bakery. They tried to follow him of course, but Garry hurried down one street and performed the radical move of removing his hat, apron, and other articles of clothing. Then he passed by a group of Workers and thus vanished entirely.
 
——
 
Garry did attend The Wandering Inn’s party where he shook hands with a number of people and was congratulated on his efforts.
“You know, Garry, we could fund a few of those trips if you needed, er, gold.”
He smiled at Lyonette when she suggested this. But to her surprise, he shook his head.
“I believe, Miss Lyonette, if you would care to send a Knight of Solstice or your own representatives, such villages would benefit from your insight and perspicacity more than of my bread. They will not need more for quite some time.”
She hesitated and smiled, embarrassed, while brushing at her hair.
“Well, I, ahem, that’s very good of you to notice, Garry. Yelroan? Xinthe? A word, if you please.”
Garry enjoyed his celebratory dish of wheat-free pappardelle bolognese and packed enough for the entire team to eat in the Hive. He walked back to his rooms in the Free Hive—he had not bought any space in the city above because it was too much of an unnecessary expense—and had Runel and Pisca share Calescent’s excellent cooking.
Garry made a few mental notes that night as he rolled loaves of Scaethen Dough. He had plenty of energy given his three-day hiatus.
“It would appear that the Erin-deflection trick works quite well. Very good.”
He checked the calendar he had hanging up.
“It’s Saelsmorn. Then…Nendas will do.”
He named the 2nd day of the week and the 4th day, respectively. After some thought, Garry added up his vacation days, which he had never taken any of, and went to check how Liscor’s Bakery was doing.
Actually, tomorrow would do. He wrote in his name on the paperwork, told Runel and Pisca, and went to bed early.
The next day, at dawn, Drassi was waiting at Garry’s Bakery, first in line, to interview the recalcitrant [Chef]. She was dozing against the side of the windowsill, but she’d come in person because it was a feel-good story, because Garry was a friend, and because she suspected he’d try to dodge her.
“Hey, is Garry in yet?”
She asked the [Baker] several times when they appeared to give out bread, but the [Baker] just said Garry hadn’t been in yet. Eventually, the head [Manager] came out.
“Garry? He’s taken a vacation, Miss Drassi. Sorry. He’s on a two-day break.”
“Must be tired from his trip. Do we risk the Free Hive, find the Antinium, or what, Reporter Drassi?”
The film crew muttered. They had to fill the timeslot somehow. But Drassi’s eyes narrowed. Her [Reporter] instincts were telling her something.
“I think…wait.”
Then someone came skidding around the corner and almost shoulder-charged into her.
“Boss! Boss! He’s done it again! He just left Invrisil!”
Drassi spun, and her jaw dropped. Then she was running. Everyone in line turned, and one of the [Bakers] stuck their heads out the server’s window.
Garry was already on the move. No one expected the [Baker] once, let alone twice. It rattled them, from the news team to The Wandering Inn…to Erin Solstice, when she found out a full day later.
They did not understand. But some people were beginning to.
 
——
 
The first person to meet Garry who got it was a [Knight]. A fellow on the ground. Not the Clairei Fields [Knights] who shouted in alarm and galloped around, but a different sort of fellow.
“Ser Solton, the Order of Haegris! My good man, my good man. Are you Baker Garry?”
He rode over with pot-bellied armor and coins emblazoned on a shield, horse practically jingling with supplies. When Garry acknowledged that yes, that was him, Ser Solton saluted him with a lance and nearly hit his horse with it.
“Oh, sorry, Bela. Damn things. I just wanted to ask, sir, if you needed an escort. I’m not much of a fighter myself, but the roads get a tad tricky now and then.”
“I would not wish to take up your time, Ser Solton, but thank you.”
“Not at all, not at all. Personally, I just wished to introduce myself as a fellow in the same line of business. Quite admirable, but I worry about the blowback. I do what I can, and I have a rather substantive backer who’s funding my efforts in Izril, but I fear I need far more [Knights] from my Order. I would request every member, if they were not necessary the world over, you understand? If I could help with distribution or delivery—”
Solton rode with Garry as the [Chef] considered his words, then replied.
“But if I did, Ser Solton, would I not impede your own good efforts?”
Solton mopped at his brows as he rode in full armor.
“There’s a shade of truth there, sir. But I have put my offer out on the table, and it is yours to take up. Goodwill abounds between people making honest deals, and I should hate to press. But if I may, could I pay for a loaf of this most-excellent bread? Much less that delightful glowing bread I espy there?”
He was so taken with the Scaethen Bread that he bought some, trading quite a number of gold coins to Garry in the process while promising not to share it about. And he was the first.
Miss Drassi galloped in after a while and harassed Garry, but she didn’t count on figuring out what he was doing. Not quite. He was honest, though.
“Yes, I am delivering bread. If you see me, please do not ask for free bread as it is one Liscorian Mark per piece, and I intend to deliver the excess to villages in need. But if you see me coming, and you are hungry, please call out.”
“And you’re doing this despite the objection of the Reinharts and other powers to your presence in the north, Garry? Are you confident in navigating these risks?”
“I am utterly confident there are risks, Drassi.”
“But you’re doing it anyways. Why? Charity? Wanting to keep others fed?”
“Yes.”
Drassi waited for more, but Garry just rode on. She smiled.
“That’s a noble goal, Garry, but some might say there’s too many mouths to feed and your deliveries of bread, helpful as they are, can’t do much.”
“I am sure this is the case, Drassi. But I have a spacious wagon, and I make a lot of bread. If it helps some, I will do it.”
“Even if people disagree?”
The microphone returned to him. Garry nodded and produced his red hat. He attached the beard to his face.
“Even if people disagree. Ho…ho…and ho. I am also Santa.”
Apparently, a number of people saw the broadcast across Izril and the world. Garry didn’t know what to do with that information, so he let it lie.
He suspected he hadn’t been the best interviewee, anyways. He hadn’t given Drassi much to work with. Sometimes, honesty was boring. At least, from certain angles.
 
——
 
It was only a two-day trip this time, anyways. But the second and third people who knew what Garry was about intercepted him at roughly the same times as Erin called him to check on him, and he told her he was on a second delivery, could they talk tomorrow, please?
The first was a woman on horseback, who would have seemed like any other urgent woman with places to be—except for the [Maid] outfit. She slowed and called out.
“Excuse me, Baker Garry! Would you have a moment to speak with my employer, please?”
She kept glancing around, which he thought meant she was afraid of trouble finding her, and that was confirmed when a [Lady] in pink swam into being on the scrying mirror the breathless [Maid] held up.
“Ah, Baker Garry! Good evening! Might I have a word?”
“Hello, Lady Magnolia Reinhart. It is, in fact, Chef Garry.”
“Oh my, is it?”
Magnolia was visibly surprised. People were working behind her in what seemed like a construction zone. [Maids] and [Butlers] with helmets laying down bricks, arguing with Drakes doing the same…Garry wondered if she was building her wall.
“How can I help you, Lady Reinhart?”
She smiled at him with a touch of uncertainty, he thought. The [Lady] adjusted her iconic pink hat, steepling her fingers. Ducked. A huge wooden beam passed overhead, and Ressa walked past her, carrying the beam, having stripped down to an undershirt.
She had a lot of muscles. Garry admired her strength as Magnolia glared.
“Ressa! Do excuse me—renovations. If I may be frank, Garry—may I call you Garry? Call me Magnolia—I never thought to have such a conversation with an Antinium before. I thought your people were entirely devoid of empathy…again, until recently. But even for a people with the capacity for empathy, this stands out.”
“I am glad you have cleared up that regrettable misapprehension, Lady Reinhart. But it is understandable given that Klbkch was our representative for quite some time.”
She chuckled at that, then gave him a longer, stranger, more pained look.
“Yes. But you would be rare as a Waisrabbit among regular folk, regardless of species. I wish to congratulate you.”
“I have done very little, Lady Magnolia.”
Her smile deepened, and now, he thought, she was genuinely pleased with him.
“It is good of you to see it that way. Nevertheless, I say it again: I am impressed. I would rather like to try that bread of yours myself, but…well, my little interests aside, I wonder if you would allow me to make some small investments in your business?”
“I am employed by Liscor, Lady Reinhart, and in service to the Free Queen. Regrettably, I am already remunerated.”
She waved that off.
“Oh, I know that. But I mean person—”
The [Lady] stopped, hesitated.
“…Did you really just use ‘remunerated’ in a sentence? Your command of language, Baker Garry, is most refreshing.”
“Thank you. I was not sure if I had used it correctly.”
“Accurate to my ears! Now, I do mean delivery. Allow me a bit of control and I am positive we can establish a system whereby you do not have to waste time rolling about. Much less with those darling but, dare I say it, more controversial Antinium in your vicinity?”
She indicated the Flying Antinium, and Garry nodded. He didn’t take offense to anything she was saying. They were speaking the same language.
“I have worried about the time I am taking with my helpers. I believe I shall transition to horses to avoid wasting their time.”
Plus, the Flying Antinium got tired, and they did need to have more of them working to satisfy the Free Queen. She’d liked the publicity he’d gotten, but miss too many meals and she’d get…stroppy. Magnolia half-smiled, then tapped her lips.
“That implies you yourself intend to lead more expeditions. Mister Garry, do forgive me if I ask if you understand the risks and problems that may arise?”
“I believe I understand them as well as the word remunerate, Lady Reinhart.”
She had to laugh at that. Then focused on him seriously.
“Did Miss Solstice put you up to this? I cannot believe she would. Not…presently.”
“If I was in contact with her at all, Lady Reinhart, I would be surprised, but she did not. I appreciate your offer of assistance, but I must insist. I know what I intend, and it may be I am wrong, but I believe I understand you.”
She peered at him, smiling again.
“You do, don’t you? How did an Antinium come to…? Or perhaps you are simply the best of the five?”
“I would never claim to be best at anything but cooking, Lady Reinhart, and only by comparison to Bird, Anand, Belgrade, and Pawn. I am simply—thinking.”
She paused, and then turned to watch Ressa putting the beam down. When she glanced back at him, her eyes sparked. Green like the depths of Izril’s forests.
“Then I do advise you to think again, Garry. I am not in the position to wish to lose valuable pieces on the board, even ones not under my control. The Mage’s Guild will forwards you to me or my people at any time. Unless you would like to keep discussing the matter?”
“No, Lady Reinhart.”
She gave him a brief, exasperated gaze, then half-rose.
“It is refreshingly agreeable to speak to someone who understands your language thoroughly. But sometimes, dismaying. The Order of Haegris is similarly fluent, but politely hold their own opinions on everything, just like you. One could wish we were all sharing the same bed. Do contact me again or I shall once I grow annoyed. Oh, and please don’t let the old man drone on. He has work to do.”
What, exactly, that meant, Garry had a few suspicions, but once the [Maid] had bowed and departed—with a free loaf of bread—he rode on until the mists covered his position and he found himself riding down the road.
That was when the old man he recognized as Demsleth appeared.
“I say, young man, have we met before? I would greatly appreciate a ride if you wouldn’t mind.”
“Of course, Mister Demsleth. Climb on. Would you like some bread?”
Demsleth eyed the bread that Garry offered him, but when no condiments appeared, he hesitated.
“Ah, well, perhaps not. I have to watch my weight, you know. So, you’re out and about doing deliveries. Fine work, fine…commendable, you know? I did not expect it of your people.”
He coughed rather sootily into one hand, and Garry nodded.
“Lady Magnolia said much the same.”
“Did she? Damn that brat always getting a march on…”
He glowered, then smiled like a man who knew why he should smile, and his multicolored eyes lit up. Garry smiled too, because something had made the old man happier, and this was good. Then Demsleth gazed at Garry.
“I feel like I should insist you take Ser Solton up on his offer. He’s not got as many contacts, but he’s a quite capable man despite his looks. Excellent instincts for business, if not battle, and he has morality. That rare thing, however it hangs on his shoulders. Presently, there will be other Knights of Haegris on the continent. They could deliver your bread far more efficiently.”
“Aha. I knew this day would come. I am being muscled out by the competition.”
Demsleth waggled a finger.
“Ah! No muscling is happening! Purely a few—tricks of the trade by veterans trying to be passed down to bright, commendable young folk such as yourself.”
“As I informed Sir Solton, Master Demsleth, I appreciate the offers, but is it not a waste of your own valuable time?”
The old man snorted without preening at that.
“Naturally, it is! But everything is. I’m not denying that. But there are…optimal ways to go about these things. We cannot be everywhere, and I feel as though I should insist. Especially given your nature.”
He fixed Garry with a serious look and was surprised, perhaps, when Garry met his eyes. Immovably. Though the old Dragon in disguise had some force behind his glare, the Antinium who returned the stare met those eyes where Devrkr the Glowing’s gaze of wrath had faltered, where even the Small Queen had fled.
Demsleth blinked first, then glanced away.
“Convictions are a wonderful thing, young man. Wonderful, truly. But optimally…”
He trailed off and then seemed to feel old. As if he were aging at hearing his words, and when Garry spoke, that weary head rose and fixed on him.
“I know I am doing things suboptimally, Master Demsleth. But so long as they are not wrongly done, I hope you will let me do them. Because we must be everywhere and doing everything, if I am correct in all these conversations which dance around the main topic. You must let me do things my way, and then, when I realize they are wrong, not just suboptimal, I will change.”
“Even if I feel I should insist, nay, demand and enforce my tyranny for the sake of better days?”
A spark. Just a spark of intensity in his eyes, and the Flying Antinium shivered and scuttled back a moment, then forward to protect Garry. But the [Chef] kept smiling.
“I believe you feel this way, and perhaps you should, Master Demsleth. But you have somewhere to be. Am I not wasting your time? I feel, strongly, that this is the true crime between us.”
The old man stopped for a while as the wagon creaked onwards. Then he passed a trembling hand over his face and stood.
“Ah. Oh. I do admire young ladies, it seems. Some of the scurrilous accusations lodged against me sometimes have merit. You have me bested, young man. Do not give me cause to regret it, please.”
He rose, weary, but then extended a hand, and Garry shook it. Quietly, the old man murmured.
“You, of all men and women in this changing era, remind me of a [Dancer] I once met. But I could not stop her either. Please reconsider. Magnolia knows where to find me.”
Then he hopped off the wagon, hesitated when Garry offered him some Scaethen Bread, and for a moment, just a moment, grew nostalgic and amused.
“Is that real Scaethen Bread? Dead gods, it is! I love the dough. You wouldn’t happen to have enough time to make a square cube, six feet by six…? Ah, I will ask later. I’ll pay for it!”
Then he was gone. Garry sat back and admired the stars. After a while, Pisca and Runel nudged him.
“Garry. Garry. What were you talking aboutz?”
“The future, you two. Don’t worry. They are good people.”
“Even the zcary Dragon?”
“Even him. Good people do the scariest things.”
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 40!]
[Skill – Vehicle: Fast Travelling Obtained!]
[Skill – Kitchen: Remote Management Obtained!]
[Skill – Bread: A Nutritional Meal Obtained!]
[Skill – Bread: Pestkiller Obtained!]
[Skill – A True Gift, Touched by Fortune Obtained!]
 
He was rather surprised by levelling up this night, of all nights, but he supposed handshakes and conversations were worth a lot to certain people.
In truth, a certain arbiter of levels and classes was trying to get better about not waiting overlong on capstones. Besides, it knew what was coming next.
It was Erin Solstice who figured it out last.
 
——
 
Garry was in Liscor that evening as Pisca and Runel flew about their living quarters in the Free Hive, celebrating with a keg of mead that Ishkr had delivered with compliments. And a free bee.
Apista and the Flying Antinium were doing tricks, and Garry was happy for them. People in Liscor kept coming up to him to say that they’d seen Drassi’s coverage and that they were glad he’d done that, and was that special bread or just what he sold. He assured them quality was consistent.
Especially with his new [Remote Management] Skill; he could broadcast orders or check on things remotely. Not perfectly, but Garry was filing some paperwork—there was always paperwork with Liscor—when she found him.
A door opened and closed. Part of Garry got up with a smile and went to see his beloved [Innkeeper]. The rest of him just got to work, sliding the paperwork into a delivery slot in City Hall.
They really did have to figure out his job, because he had taken two vacations in a row with no consequences. There was no one to really replace Garry, and no one had tried very hard to find a way to punish him anyways. Then Garry went to the Driver’s Guild.
“Hello, Hostler. May I inquire about renting horses? I already have a wagon.”
The hostler on duty for the night was sleepy, but when he saw Garry, he woke up a bit. He grinned, exposing some teeth; he was a Human, but one who was picking up Liscor’s customs.
“Oh, aye, and I’ll bet you have a place to go. I can get you a team together. When d’you want them by?”
Garry tilted his head.
“Tomorrow would be appreciated, sir. But I will ask just to be precise—would you also consider doing a delivery for me to the following locations? I have a map, and I will pay for your best [Drivers], if they are available. Especially Termin the Omnipresent, Chaoisa the Contempt of Men—although I understand she is working with the Knights of Solstice exclusively—or Karsaeu and the Unmarked Coach.”
There was idle chatter in the Driver’s Guild, people working or coming in from long-haul deliveries or sleeping before the next leg of their trip. At those famous names, especially the last one that non-Drivers should not know, everyone went quiet.
The [Hostler] was no rookie; he’d come from up north and joined Liscor for the pay. He swallowed.
“How, er, how d’you know that last name?”
“I heard it once. I remember what I hear, Master Hostler. I take it, then, she is not a good option? I am uninformed about many matters, so do forgive me if I have erred in some way.”
They all breathed a bit when they realized he wasn’t someone…connected…to the Unmarked Coach. Then the [Drivers] got up, because Garry had work, and his was charitable work. Why not? Get applauded by some villagers and free bread? Why n—
They stopped as they found his map. The [Hostler] peered at it, and then his eyes opened wide. He leaned over, then looked up.
“Er—that’s not a good idea, Baker Garry. Begging your pardon.”
“It’s ‘Chef’, but I do understand. I had to ask, Hostler. Then horses will do unless anyone would wish to take me? No?”
Drakes and Gnolls mostly, but some Humans, all eyed Garry, then his map, then shook their heads. One of them, a Drake, leaned over.
“Listen, er, Chef. I don’t know Antinium that well, but I’ve been through Liscor enough. I know the score. I don’t mind your kind, but, uh, this isn’t a good idea. Stick to the north.”
Everyone nodded, but Garry just smiled.
“I understand your concerns, sir—”
“You don’t understand. They’ll kill you. They’ll shoot you the moment you go through the door to Pallass. I don’t care if that Bird guy—”
“Girl; she is female now.”
The Drake hesitated. Shrugged that off.
“—whatever, got through. You’re going to die.”
“I realize that is a possibility, sir. But I am told there are hungry people. Unless you would take the delivery for me?”
A long, long pause. Every Drake and Gnoll in the room gazed at each other, then at Garry. Thought about his cargo, which would be worse than an unmarked box that a [Rogue] gave you that you handed off. Far worse.
Garry spoke into the silence with that slight smile and a twinkle in his eyes.
“Then I am going. Hostler, I will come in the morning to pick up the horses.”
“We’re, uh, not supposed to rent them if we know they’re going to die.”
“They will not. I shall do everything in my power to keep them alive, but I must insist.”
Garry spoke to the [Hostler], and someone croaked behind him.
“Why?”
The first Drake was leaning on a table, eying Garry. Just eying him with that familiar expression of frank disbelief. Searching for some crack in a façade he had to believe was there.
“Why do this? They’ll shoot you when you deliver your bread, like as not. Even if they’ve seen the news. You don’t know them. They’d—we’d burn your Hives in a second given the chance. Why?”
For answer, Garry turned in the doorway. He pulled his Santa hat out and sat it on his head.
“If they are as hungry as I think they are, they will eat the bread if they see it, first. It is true I do not know them, sir. I hope to. It is also true that if I do not go, there may be no one to know. Many qualified people could have gone. [Merchants]. Couriers. [Drivers] such as yourself, sent by cities or Walled Cities. No one has gone. So it is me.”
“But why—?”
“Because someone must.”
Garry adjusted his hat, and now, he spoke to them. He spoke to himself, and he spoke to her, the [Innkeeper], even if the words were not exactly the same. He turned to them all, and his voice was steady but outraged. He was not calm; he merely appeared to be. But if you could see that flame that a Lady Firestarter had once seen or the qualities that other people had learned to view the world through, he would be ablaze. An outraged light twinkled in his eyes, gentle, but furious not at any one person, but the state of the world.
“Some say it is dangerous, and they are correct. Some say wait: help will come. Surely. Let someone else do what is necessary and this will be righted. Only, it seems to me that the help does not always come. I do not wish to wait. And you may say to me, ‘surely there is someone else, someone better, someone who can do it easier or more conveniently’, but I am here, and I see no one else. So it occurs to me: I am that surely.”
He paused in the doorway, smiled at them, because they hesitated, each and every one, and one could have stood up, but no one did. Nor had he expected it of them, and that—perhaps that hurt most of all.
Then he was gone, and the [Innkeeper] knew. And she said one word.
 
——
 
“Drakes.”
Now she saw it.
The thing that had been in his heart that the [Pavilion of Secrets], her other self, had glimpsed. Who is in the most danger?
Even if he had still been down there, it would have not been Rabbiteater, a Goblin Lord fighting through the Synectic Maze. Nor Nerry, when she had descended into Oelnnox in the company of mercenaries and friends. Not Niers against the Dyed Lands nor even Yvlon Byres rampaging through the Coliseum of Monarchs nor any other event around this time.
Who is in the greatest, truest danger?
Garry. She sat there as he showed her his map, and this time, the line did not go up, but down. South. Just like before, only past the Bloodfields towards Pallass because of course they would never let him through their side of the door. Towards villages in the foothills where the mountains met plains, then, if he was able, even into the plains to remote spots.
Drake villages. Starving ones, she was sure.
He had never been going to stop. Fool, Erin. You idiot. She’d fallen for his trick just like Drassi and everyone else. They thought he’d go and deliver bread. Thought he’d do one good deed and call it quits, but Garry wasn’t like someone doing this for a moment. He was Antinium.
He had calculated exactly how much he could give, and the answer was everything he could spare. He had more bread, and having proven his model worked…she whispered as she sat there.
“They will kill you, Garry.”
“Perhaps.”
“Not perhaps!”
She shouted at him. She rose and yelled, and he didn’t flinch. A year ago, he would have, but he just sat there across the chess table from her, smiling.
When had he changed so much? She thought of Christmas and realized perhaps she had planted these seeds, even back then. His bakery—yes, she latched onto that.
“Garry, let someone else do this. You can’t go. What will happen to little Comrei if you get hurt or…?”
“I have instructed Pisca to take care of my special clients in my absence. Lady Magnolia Reinhart made the same offer, Erin.”
“Then take it!”
“I cannot, Erin.”
“Why?”
He took his time replying and laid out his reasons logically, simply.
“There are several reasons. Firstly, if Lady Reinhart were able to be everywhere, I think she would have already helped. I believe that her removal as head of House Reinhart curtailed these activities which she participated in, in her way, greatly. It is a suboptimal use of her time or Ser Solton’s or anyone else’s to help me. If I could involve a third party for coin, such as the Driver’s Guild, I would.”
“A Courier, then. They do anything for pay.”
“They are too expensive.”
“Get Lyonette to help! Or the inn! They can do it! They have gold! Unlimited gold!”
She shouted, and again, he shook his head.
“The Wandering Inn will attract enemies who hate it and you, Erin. Pardon me, but I wish to continue this without interference. It must be me, because I can ensure this system will not stop.”
“It will stop when you’re dead and they assassinate you for crossing into Drake lands, Garry!”
She shouted at him, and he nodded.
“Yes, perhaps. But my second point is this: I must do it because it will draw attention. This is a value too. They will see and, I hope, understand what I am doing.”
She sat there and realized he did know what he was doing. The attention…he was her student after all. But dead gods, she wished he had not learned so well. The [Innkeeper] sat, suddenly still, and her face was shadowed.
“And the last reason?”
Garry’s gaze was calm and certain, and she could have dismantled both other reasons, but the last one was deep and, she realized, hinted at the game that ran beneath all of this. His final strategy.
“The last reason, and the reason why I do not wish you to give me a boon, talk to Drake leaders, or help or hinder me in any way, Erin Solstice, is this: I will level. I will level, and I must, because my simple bakery can only provide bread to a city and a few others. I will level because I have to. Level 40 is not enough. And I do not wish to wait to reach Level 50. I do not wish to stop at Level 50.”
Now she saw it on him. The twinkle in his eyes no longer looked like the jollyness of fat old Santa Claus, or perhaps it did fit Santa. The real Santa. If there was a man who dressed up in a red suit and jumped down chimneys across the world, who made toys for nothing while employing potentially enslaved elves in the north pole…perhaps he was that mad. But she knew that twinkle in his eyes now.
It was Saliss’ madness. The eyes that dared the world, that saw a simple equation and played the game every way possible.
“I forbid this, Garry. Promise me you’ll do something else. You can level—safely—but swear to me you will not do this. Or I will tell Lyonette to drag you back to the Free Hive. I’ll tell the Free Queen, I promise.”
He tilted his head, not innocently. That innocent, little child of a [Baker] was gone. There was a different innocence about him now, a pure one like a glittering blade of morality. But dead gods, it cut her. It hurt her to look at because it was beautiful, and he would die.
“Ah, I see now you were the final obstacle I should have calculated into my plans, Erin. Before I leave and you leave, I must convince you to take my side and not stop me. Very well. Let us begin.”
He sat forwards, and Erin felt the hairs on her head shift. She glanced up, and somewhere, the [Pavilion of Secrets] came alive. A wind seemed to blow in this void, and Garry smiled as he scooted his seat closer to the table.
The first challenger to come against Erin Solstice in the [Pavilion of Secrets] was not the Quarass. Not some daring foe. She had brought enemies here. She had brought third parties, but never in the spirit it had been meant for.
Now, they faced each other with bare truth, and Garry smiled at Erin. She hesitated just once.
“Shall we play a game of chess, Erin?”
 
——
 
They had not played a game of chess in so long. Erin realized…Garry didn’t really like chess as much as she did. He admitted it, even.
“I like the game well enough, but it is not my passion, Erin. Only, if you have nothing, then something is beautiful.”
He was losing games. She hounded him across the board without mercy, destroying his position as if that alone could win this conversation, but he just reset the board each time.
It was not a long conversation. There was nothing to dance around. Just two opinions clashing.
“They’ll hurt you, Garry. They won’t hesitate. You know you’re Antinium.”
“I believe I have realized this, yes, Erin.”
“You’re sassing me. When did you learn to sass me?”
“I am a [Chef], Erin. I work in a kitchen with employees. Sass is the very least of what we use against each other.”
She was wiping at her eyes, trying to focus on the game and him.
“I know…you’re not afraid, Garry. But it’ll hurt everyone. Liscor, your employees, your friends. Your Hive. You can’t risk your life over…nothing.”
He raised two fingers, smiling.
“You have made two clever fallacies, Erin. Firstly, you claim this is ‘nothing’. It is, potentially, a life. Many lives. That is not nothing.”
“You don’t know them.”
“Neither did you. That is my second point, Erin. I have seen you do this from the day I met you. I…am that starving Antinium you chose to feed. I was there when you asked Pawn his name and gave him kindness. You did not know Esthelm when you saved them. You did not really know Pisces when you stepped in front of him or the Goblins you have saved. But that is besides the point. I do not need a reason to save a life.”
His words struck her, because it was true. She had struggled to say ‘nothing’, because she had known it wasn’t very accurate. Whereas he needed no trickery. He hit her over the head with pure, brute honesty. And she…she felt like she was on the wrong side for the right reasons.
Was this how it felt to be a bastard like Tyrion? Nevertheless, she persisted.
“If you’ve seen me, Garry, then you know the cost. Look at me. Look at—”
She stretched her hands across the board, knocking pieces of Drakes, Gnolls, different species to the ground where they vanished. She showed him her wrists, scarred, and he took in every injury he saw on her, healed and not healed.
“I know.”
The [Innkeeper] whispered, and images flickered around her. Faces like her garden’s statues.
“I couldn’t save them. You won’t be able to either. Magnus, Knight, Headscratcher. You’ll lose so many and never, never forgive yourself.”
Gently, he took her hands, and she gazed at him, her hazel eyes swimming in the faint light shining down on them. The [Chef] was still smiling, but his hands did tremble. She felt them shaking. Yet he had the effrontery, the gall to nod.
“I know. But with greatest respect, Erin? I believe you are suboptimal. I admire you and all you have done, but I believe I can do better than you. I am not a threat in the way you are. I am a silly Antinium with the power of television and Christmas on my side. I’m giving away bread. It is hard to make bread scary, even when you decorate it.”
She laughed, shakily, and shook her head. Tears rolled down her cheeks, and he gently offered her a handkerchief. She wiped at her face.
“Sheesh, Garry. How…how’d you ever learn any of this? I never taught you this. I barely taught you anything!”
Her eyes filled with guilt, but the Antinium Worker just grinned, and his antennae waved playfully.
“I learned from observation, Erin. And I taught myself the rest. A fed mind and body and I will want to learn. Not enough people have that. That is why I am going. Do you have any more arguments, please? Because I do not think you will stop me. I would rather have advice.”
She stared at him, and she searched for something that would change his mind. A true statement, and against that deep, simple morality, there was none. Just right and wrong, and that was the problem. She needed the complexities of the world, the greyness to tell him why the right thing to do was wrong.
But he was using the [Pavilion of Secrets] against her. The weight of his truths pressed on her, pushing past her half-truths, her attempts to prevaricate. In the end, she could only sit there and hug him.
“…Don’t go tomorrow. At least, not right away.”
“I must—”
“No. You’re not ready. You’ve probably done a lot of things right and stuff, and I know you can overprepare, but do one thing, Garry. Get permission first. All your ducks in a row. Do it the right way.”
That was the only time he frowned, perplexed.
“The system you wish me to use is broken. It does not have a place for me in it, nor will it help them. It is a waste of time.”
She met his gaze, smiling then with simple intelligence, and tapped him on the chest.
“That’s why you do it their way first. I never did, but it’s important. Not because they’ll let you or it’ll work, but to prove you tried.”
“Oh. Oh. That is very clever, Erin.”
“Thanks. Garry? I can’t stop you. But promise me you won’t die.”
“I promise.”
 
——
 
The next day, Garry got up and informed the anxious [Hostler] he had a slight delay. He took his time filling out paperwork in the Driver’s Guild and then headed to Liscor’s City Hall.
It took some doing to talk his way into a meeting with a Councilmember, but Garry effected it with the Erin routine.
“I know that the Councilmembers are very busy. But this is, sadly, a very important thing which I must have done. I would hate for it to become an issue affecting any election chances. But if you would like, I will happily discuss this at increasing volumes.”
Councilmember Raekea met with Garry within ten minutes, and he outlined what he needed. She blinked at him.
“A passport?”
“Yes, Councilmember. If it can be created for me and issued the highest clearance, I would appreciate it.”
“Why? You’re not going to Drake cities, surely!”
She laughed, then peered at him with a sudden suspicion. But Garry just smiled.
“No, Councilmember Raekea, I will not. But I have realized it is a matter of Liscorian law to have any employee be a full citizen of Liscor. As well as requiring maximum clearance to interface with any members of the Hive. It is in the lawbooks. I would, regretfully, have to close the bakery until this paperwork is done, so—”
Her fur stood up on end, and she whirled.
“Right now? When you’re so popular? Tribes, no! You there, get me whomever is in Olesm’s old office. We can probably write one up and have it stamped—”
Erin had told Garry that it was probably possible to get any paperwork in the world done as fast as you wanted if you harassed the right person about it. Regardless of how complex and how long you had to supposedly wait.
He had a Grade 4 Passport, the highest Liscor could issue, within half an hour. Garry thanked Raekea and strode out of the door to ‘resume baking’. He met the final obstacle to his departure scuffing her foot on the ground and standing in front of a wagon with horses.
Everyone was beaming at Garry, expecting him to head to Shivertail Plaza at any moment. But instead, he just stood there as Bird blocked his way.
“It was a very good lie you gave me, Bird. You are indeed a master.”
“I am a mistress, but apparently that sounds wrong. I am going to stop you, Garry. By hitting you until you fall down.”
Garry put a hand on Bird’s shoulder as the female Antinium raised her bow half-heartedly.
“You will not, Bird.”
“If they kill you, I will shoot their cities.”
“I give you permission to shoot the walls, but nothing else, Bird.”
“You cannot boss me around. I am Bird, and no one rules me.”
They took the wagon through the door into The Wandering Inn, but Liska paused when Garry asked to just be dropped off at an old destination.
“The Bloodfields? Why the heck do you want to go there?”
“I wish to deliver bread south, Liska.”
“South? Hey, isn’t that a really bad idea?”
The Gnoll glanced at Bird, and the [Hunter] replied.
“Yes.”
“No.”
Garry and Bird locked gazes, and she raised the bow and hit him.
“Ow.”
She hit him again.
“Ow. Bird, stop that.”
Her arms were trembling.
“I must stop you. I must. Why can you not stay in this city? We belong here. In that circle around the inn.”
Four gaps in the ring of statues. Garry peered at the frozen Antinium forms for a second. Where was Anand’s…? He looked back at his sister.
Bird pointed at the [Garden of Sanctuary] and that hill where the statues stood in the mists, and she was crying. Garry envied her that, his beautiful sister who had become more than he could dream of. But he stood with that feeling that had carried Erin Solstice so far, and whatever Liska saw in him, she silently changed the door. Garry put an arm around Bird’s shoulder and shielded his face as she raised the bow again.
“That is where you belong, Bird, and I hope you stay here as long as you wish to. I? I see another hill to stand on. And there is no one there but me. I am going. The place I am trying to reach is somewhere that not even Erin has found. The world does not need another [Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef].”
Miss Uriesta and Menolit, who’d just come through the door, and everyone in earshot who’d been impatiently waiting for the wagon to turn or listening to this moment stopped.
Their eyes fixed on Garry, and he smiled as they found a tiny window to view him through. The true him. Liska’s eyes went round, and the [Baker] smiled.
“That is to say—the world will probably take many more like me. And it may need what I can give. But it is not enough.”
“It’s enough for me.”
Bird threw her arms around Garry, and he hugged her, then gently lifted her off him and climbed into the wagon. The horses, who were nervous, had been chewing on Scaethen Dough, and he turned and spoke to Bird.
“Selfish as it is, Bird, I must tell you the truth for I am a poor [Liar]. It may be enough for you, but it is not for me. I must try at least once. Then…I will be able to sleep again.”
He rode the wagon through the magic door into the reddish, smoothed dirt road heading south from Liscor. And he knew they were watching him, but he had a while. The Antinium gazed up at the sky.
“I’m very nervous, Erin. Is this how it feels each time? Wish me luck.”
Then he shook the reins, patted one of the horses, and he began to ride south. Facing the enemy that would be his greatest danger.
Drakes.
And the people he had to try to help. Who needed him.
Drakes.
 
——
 
The [Baker] began rolling around the stained Bloodfields, watching clouds of insects funneling upwards from the huge pillow plants that disgorged them without end. Delicately driving the nervous horses further away from the sporadic Watchertrees, who stood like silent sentinels, and occasionally just admiring a red rabbit because there were always rabbits, apparently.
And only a few people knew where he was going or why. For those first few hours into a journey that would last days, Garry just sat back and listened to his heart hammering.
“But the reason is correct. So it should be done.”
He was not, then, fearless. Garry had just learned every lesson that his teacher had shown him. It was that determined expression, of someone walking into flames, he wore.
 
——
 
It was not the face that the [Innkeeper] wore after she emerged from her [Pavilion of Secrets]. When she reappeared and Ulvama and Matha saw her as they were washing dishes—well, Matha was washing dishes and Ulvama was supervising—the young Fraerling nearly dropped a plate.
She had never seen Erin Solstice looking so dreadfully calm. And that was the word for it. Her eyes were a bit puffy, but she looked like how Eurise said she was when he had first met her: a washed-up survivor with magic still coursing through her veins.
Ulvama knew. But she grabbed a chair.
“What happened? Sit, sit. Is he…? I thought he was safe. Someone else?”
“He’s going south. I couldn’t stop him. I didn’t. He’s going to deliver bread because it matters, and—he’ll live. He promised me.”
The [Innkeeper] sat as Ulvama’s eyes went wide with alarm, and Matha was utterly confused. Bread? The stuff they’d eaten last night?
Hunger for a Fraerling was a rare concept—at least, in Matha’s village. Her raiders had been hungry, but they just had to kill a bug if they were desperate, even if it tasted horrible. There had always been Zinni nearby.
She had never starved. As Ulvama had pointed out, Matha had never really known so many of the fears that she and Erin had, despite her size.
But it would also be wrong to say Matha was a fool. She understood what this Antinium guy was doing as Erin softly murmured to the increasingly-agitated Ulvama.
“Hey, that’s great, isn’t it? Isn’t it a good idea?”
Both Human and Goblin glanced at her, and Matha shut up. Then listened, because they were talking. Somewhat to her, and mostly to each other.
“It is a good thing.”
“He is going to be killed. Didn’t you tell him that? They’re Drakes. They will shoot him and hang his body up just—just to warn the others.”
“They’ll…what?”
Erin didn’t glance at Matha. She was gazing down at her fingers, which twitched as she moved them.
“I told him, Ulvama. But he had to go. He had every good reason. Everyone tried to stop him. Magnolia. Teriarch. Even some [Knight]. But he’s going to do it.”
“Why? Tell Lyonette!”
“Because he’s going to level. And because they’ll pay attention to him. Because he feels like he has to, Ulvama. I was so…proud of him. I couldn’t say a thing.”
She smiled, then. Like a treehouse collapsing. A home splintering into pieces. Matha didn’t know faces could make such expressions.
Bowom should have been here, Matha felt, but he was visiting his patient alone this time. Or Eurise or Roja; although all but one of them called her an idiot, sometimes they explained things, even if most of it was ‘figure it out, dummy’.
All she knew was that if Erin was both triumphant and about to cry—Ulvama was visibly upset now. She tightened her hands on a teapot she’d been pouring water into and then whirled.
“I understand why he thinks this. He…he’s a good child. But they will kill him. Erin, go back and stop him.”
“I can’t.”
“You must! You’re the [Chieftain], Erin. He’s a warrior. He wants to do something dangerous. Sometimes, yes, sometimes you say, ‘go’. Not for this. Not to waste his life. You tell them no.”
Matha knew that too. Like telling one of her people not to try and solo the wild jungle cat just to impress the new kids. But she was torn. It sounded important. And Erin?
She frowned at Ulvama as the Hobgoblin sat down and took her hands. The [Shaman] thought, then her crimson eyes lit up with a sudden idea.
“Take me. I’ll talk to him.”
“Take you? Oh. I could—I never thought about that. Can I?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked, then smiled at the idea. However, then her face went calm again. She brushed at her eyes and appeared surprised there was nothing on the back of her hand.
“I won’t do that, Ulvama. He’s right. He put himself on television the last two rides. And I promised I wouldn’t stop him. I didn’t promise I wouldn’t help—”
Her head rose, determined. Then she started, because Ulvama grabbed her shoulders and shook her.
“No. Stop him.”
Her voice rose, and Matha saw the Hobgoblin display another rare emotion: anger. Her arms were tensed up as she held Erin hard.
“Hey, Ulvama, that hurts—”
“Tell him to stop. He is going to die. You’re—you’re doing this again, Erin. Only, it’s him. You taught him wrong. He is going to get himself killed or hurt, and you are going to break apart again. Your heart will. Tell him to stop right now.”
The [Innkeeper] was blinking, shaking her head.
“Ulvama, he wants to feed hungry people. Like Rheirgest. He’s…the only person who just wants to feed people. Not survive. I stopped. We stopped at the inn. Maybe someone like—like Magnolia is doing it. Maybe she’s done it and no one pays attention because she’s just Magnolia Reinhart.”
Erin grew distracted, and Ulvama poked her hard. Then slapped Erin on the cheek gently, but like someone trying to wake up a dreamer.
“None of that matters. If he dies, it is all over. No one comes back anymore—you said so. Don’t do this. Open the [Pavilion of Secrets], now, and take me. That is an order.”
“Ulvama…I’m not going to do that.”
This time, the poke from the pointed claw made Matha wince. Erin rubbed at her chest, and Ulvama hissed.
“This is your tribe, and you will fail him otherwise! This is not about right or wrong. It’s about survival! You’re the [Chieftain], and I’m your—”
“I’m not a Chieftain, Ulvama. Garry is his own person. He did this himself. He didn’t ask for help, because he knows he has to be independent. I’m proud of him. I’m not going to stop him. I don’t think I can. I don’t think Lyonette could. I don’t know if the entire Order of Solstice could unless they just held him down and never let go.”
Matha saw Ulvama jerk back, her ears tremble and droop, but Erin didn’t notice. The Hobgoblin listened, then her eyes blazed, and Matha didn’t get…
“If you don’t stop him, him dying is your fault. It is your responsibility, dumbass!”
She shouted at Erin. She reached down to yank Erin up by her shirt, and the [Innkeeper] grabbed Ulvama’s wrists. Then her eyes rose, and Matha instinctively hid behind the 2nd floor stairway because Erin was suddenly angry. Not as furious as she’d been when she’d attacked Matha’s base, but—her hazel eyes flashed.
“Stop him? Like you stopped Tremborag from raiding villages and attacking women in your mountain?”
The Hobgoblin froze. She opened her mouth, and Erin let go of her hands. Ulvama leapt back, and Erin stared at Ulvama, then away.
“We never talked about that. Rags told me, and…I never brought it up, but I wondered, especially after the ship. Why did you tell me all those true things if you let that happen?”
“I—I—”
Ulvama glanced around, but Matha was hiding, eyes wide. Biting her fingernails. The Hobgoblin swallowed.
“That…sometimes, Erin, sometimes you—you compromise. If I had tried to stop him, he wouldn’t have listened to me. I was—”
She stopped. Closed her eyes.
“Sometimes, you compromise. Like Garry. He wants to do something good. But if he dies, it’s not worth it, is it, Erin?”
Erin stood, and the two spoke in increasingly long periods of silence. Eyes locked on each other. At last, Erin nodded.
“I know you’re right, Ulvama. I’ve done that too. You are right. But I never want you to be a casualty of that—compromise. Not in that ship or ever. Not again. I’m not stopping Garry.”
Relief, regret, then—as she saw the [Innkeeper] gazing down at her wrists again, fury. The Hobgoblin shouted.
“Then you’re going to kill him. Just like you kill everyone you love, including yourself! He’s the last of the ones you love. Are you going to let them all die? Bird, Pawn, Belgrade? The one who died? The other one, who died at sea and you didn’t even know? Anand? How many times will you kill them, Erin? How many—”
She was going to shove Erin, poke her, but the [Innkeeper] knocked her hand away and then brought her hand down on Ulvama’s shoulder.
Slap.
The faint sound of flesh meeting flesh wasn’t loud, and Ulvama recoiled. Erin pushed her back. Then she lifted her hand and blinked. The Hobgoblin backed up a few steps.
“Sorry. I—”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice trailed off, and then she just stared at Ulvama. Her face froze up as Ulvama whirled. The Hobgoblin stormed out of the room as Matha leapt out of hiding.
“Um—wait—why don’t we all calm down and—”
Too late. The [Innkeeper] sat back down slowly. And then?
Well, Bowom kicked Matha with his roach-leg when he came back, and everyone else blamed Matha, but what was she supposed to have done? Ulvama came back after only a few minutes, anyways. But the mood got—worse.
Still, the Antinium rolled on.
 
——
 
It would be a longer journey, and conscious of this, Garry did let the horses rest. He fed them bread, which he had been assured would be okay for them, especially his bread.
He gave them pats, but he didn’t love animals like other Antinium. He quite liked them, but like chess, it was like rather than love. He jogged along the wagon when he realized that the horses were trained enough to actually just follow the road. Mostly trained. Twice, one of them tried to wander off to eat some grass or got too close to the Bloodfields, so he had to run over and push them back on course.
Garry had never run so far as he did in those first four hours. He wasn’t sure he cared for the experience. But he was bursting with energy and he had no bread to knead, so he was restless.
In time, the road taking him around the Bloodfields ended, and a far older, much less well-maintained road began. Garry blinked at the little sign at the end of the road.
 
This roadworks project was completed on 23 A.F. by Master Reikhle and the builders of Liscor. Also, the lives of the Silver-rank adventurers and those who perished battling monsters from the Bloodfields.
 
It was just a little bit of stone carved with the words and placed into the grass. Despite the weather, it had not deteriorated and looked sharp. A Skill, no doubt. Perhaps it would last a long time.
A reminder. Garry remembered that moment, too, when he had heard the alarm coming from Bird and worried for the Horns of Hammerad.
He had not been there either. He had missed Toren’s final return. Missed the Siege of Liscor where Pawn had led his Painted Antinium to protect Erin. Missed so many grand events.
He was only the [Baker]. Slowly, Garry stepped off the smooth dirt road and onto the muddy ground. And now, he was past the Bloodfields. In Drake lands. He stared ahead as the ground rose even further. Hilly terrain.
South of Liscor were the hills which Hectval and the other Drake cities inhabited. It came down to the more-prosperous plains and Pallass’ domain after that. He would head south from here, but soon, he would need to abandon the ‘main’ road.
The villages he needed to reach were geographically isolated. As much as the Yoldenites. Garry checked his map then set out.
 
——
 
It said something about how many people were using the road around the Bloodfields, even with the new path and Liscor’s increased prominence, that Garry saw no one for two more hours after that.
Then again, he supposed the safer option was to actually go south to Pallass and just use the door rather than risk the Bloodfields in any capacity. The bugs hadn’t bothered him or the horses despite his bread. Or maybe it was because of his bread. Perhaps they realized his new Skill meant he was effectively carrying poison for them and stayed away.
Regardless, when he finally did meet someone on the road, it was, of all things, a Drake picking herbs. No Liscorian Drake wearing long, oiled cloaks and boots in the rain. And no city-Drake either; at least, not Liscorian-city.
He had on a rather windswept look. Second-hand cloth of different colors, clearly worn fabric now recycled into a drifter’s outfit. Wrapped around his body and even tail. Given the stiff breeze that sometimes blew down from the High Passes, it was sensible travel gear, and the fabric also saved his tail from the rocks as he used a little trowel to dig up plants.
A spiky blue daffodil in this case, and Garry had seen a tiny Sage’s Grass plant a while back being nibbled on by a Waisrabbit. The [Forager] straightened semi-warily when he saw the wagon, but relaxed when he observed no one but the rider around. He waved.
“Hallo! [Trader]?”
“Hello! Delivering bread! [Baker]!”
Garry shouted back. The Drake raised a tiny claw to his forehead, squinting. Then tilted his entire body left and right.
“…[Baker]? From where?”
“Liscor!”
“Liscor? What’re you…”
Then the Drake went abruptly very still as he realized the odd figure and the accented click to the voice did not match another Drake, Human, or Gnoll…he stumbled back a step. Garry shouted.
“I am bound to the village of Imec! Delivering bread! Are you searching for plants? I saw some Sage’s Grass back there.”
“I—I—”
The Drake dropped his trowel. He cast around for his horse. Went two steps towards it, stumbled, and then fell down.
“Oh! Are you hurt?”
They were on the same road, so Garry was approaching at a decent, steady clip as the horses exchanged whinnies with the mountain-pony who was sniffing the air, perhaps scenting the bread. The Drake was twitching on the ground. Trying to get up. His head came back up, and Garry saw terror on his face.
“I am not dangerous. I am merely a [Baker]. I would offer you some bread, but it is going to hungry people.”
No response. At last, the Drake got to his feet. He grabbed his pony’s saddle and hauled himself up, then kicked the horse.
“Go! Go!”
The alarmed pony whirled, and the Drake began to gallop. He peered over his shoulder so much so that Garry was worried he’d steer his pony into a rock or down a ledge. But then he was far away, and Garry sighed.
“It begins.”
 
——
 
To be more precise, it had begun already, but this lone encounter was prescient, really. After all, as Garry was aware, his presence had been noted in The Wandering Inn as well as in Liscor that morning. Everyone knew, by now, of the bread deliveries.
It wasn’t large news. Even the first broadcast hadn’t been worthy of the front page of any newspaper, including Liscor’s own. Drassi had covered the segment, but she would have rated it as B-grade material at best, even with an Antinium like Garry and it being charitable and heartwarming—at least if you didn’t hate Antinium.
No action, no scandal, no cute animals, nothing—moving on. However, it still had enough people who’d seen it and had paid attention to Garry’s loaded wagon in Liscor. So they’d dutifully mentioned it via [Message] spell to friends in Celum or Invrisil or popped over there to see him ride out. Only for no one to find Garry.
He wasn’t coming out of Invrisil. Or Celum. Or Esthelm or even the Unseen Empire. Weird. Then Lyonette got wind that Garry had brought his wagon into the inn and wondered where he was.
There was a feeling some of the guests got, like Miss Uriesta, who sat up with her knitting in hand.
“[Dramasense]. Oh my, this is going to be a big day.”
The veteran checked her [Advanced Dangersense], but determined she was unlikely to be in any immediate danger, so she had a word with Calescent. You had to get your order in ahead of time when there was a big rush.
And yet she didn’t know what was going on. No one did until the moment began in earnest, and it was this.
Drassi kicked the door open from Pallass to Liscor with muffled shouting behind her. She had gone through the security checkpoint, and she yelled.
“Liska, let me through! Oh, Ancestors, hurry! Hurry!”
Liska, who had some idea of what this was about, let Drassi through. A Pallassian [Guard] slammed into a [Forcewall] as Drassi ran through.
“Where’s the news crew?”
Liska peered over the Drake’s shoulder, but Drassi had run straight from Channel 2’s broadcasting room, up three floors, and across the 8th to get here. She was gasping for air, but she had just seen it.
A [Scrying] spell she had ordered on a hunch. She’d told Channel 2 to prepare, just in case they couldn’t stop this, but the [Mage] had panicked, and she hadn’t been able to catch the idiot before they went sprinting for High Command. Drassi crashed into the common room of the inn.
“Lyonette! Lyonette! Get a message out of the [World’s Eye Theatre]!”
She could have stayed and begun the broadcast, but there was reporting the news and…this. Lyonette whirled, and there was that sensation in the inn.
What now? What crisis…? But it wasn’t them.
It was Garry. And now, Pallass was seeing him riding his wagon into the foothills. In Drake territory, and the nearest city of Gllistove had just had a [Forager] ride through their gates, screaming about Antinium.
Now, it was beginning.
 
——
 
Garry was peering up at the sky. He had the vague sense someone was scrying him.
The Free Queen had given him one of those anti-appraisal rings when he hit Level 30 as she had deemed his level a valuable asset not to be shared, and it tingled whenever someone was magicking him.
It was tingling quite a lot right now. But Garry didn’t want to stop any [Scrying] spells. Quite the opposite. What did Bird say you should do?
Wave?
He shrugged at the sky instead. He didn’t really care for the television either. It was nice, but if he watched it too much, he felt lazy.
“Where’s my hat and beard?”
Might as well get started. Garry was putting it on when there was a shimmer, and Lyonette, Mrsha, and Ser Dalimont appeared to the side of the wagon. They spooked the horses, and he had to calm them. Mostly because the adults were shouting.
“Garry! What are you doing? Turn back now!”
The [Princess]’ features were visibly cracked; normally, she covered it up, but he noticed the makeup hadn’t been applied properly. She must have been panicked. Garry wondered how much pain she was in and if she needed help. He’d ask Bird later; it was always embarrassing not to be caught up on current events.
If he survived.
“Hello, Lyonette. I’m doing exactly what you think I am doing. I am happy to talk, but if there is trouble, I will need to focus. You may wish to turn the scrying orb off and keep little Mrshas and Nanettes from watching.”
He paused and thought about it.
“They have seen worse, but it is the principle of the thing, you see.”
Mrsha was staring at him with huge, solemn eyes. He smiled at her.
“It should be done, Mrsha.”
She nodded, but the [Princess] was speaking.
“Garry, I order you to turn around now. This is insane. We can have the Knights of Solstice doing this. Or I’ll pay for Hawk or—”
“The Knights of Solstice are saving lives. Hawk is expensive, and this is my work. No, Lyonette.”
“Garry! Come back now! I can have Ishkr teleport you back to the inn. I order you to turn around!”
The [Princess]’ voice shone with authority, and the horses began to move until Garry flapped the reins. He turned his head and addressed her politely.
“No.”
Her mouth opened, and the [Baker] rode on, faster now. Ser Dalimont took over.
“Baker Garry, you must understand that Pallass is in a state of alarm. You are on television.”
“Ah, good. Is Miss Drassi covering the news? I could interview with her if she uses your theatre Skill. Or perhaps she has her own methods?”
The [Knight] shifted as Lyonette’s mouth opened and closed.
“Garry. The local Drake city has just sent out riders from their army.”
“Yes. We’ll see if they respect my hat.”
Garry had swapped out his [Baker]’s hat for the Santa one. He turned to Lyonette.
“Drassi will save my life more than your authority. Everyone behaves differently when they think they are being watched.”
“You must be mad, Garry. This is wrong! This is foolish!”
She was angrily pacing up to him, limping. And you know what? He respected Erin’s point of view. He understood the others. But the [Baker] was not a calm Antinium like…Bird. He leaned over the wagon and spoke down to her.
“I am not mad, Lyonette. The world is mad, uncaring, and cruel. I respect that your inn is in danger, but I am the only sane person. I was told by a [Trader] that the village of Imec sold him their winter boots for silver to buy his food. He laughed as if it were a joke. Merchant Farri, I am slightly relieved to say, did not laugh. Nothing was done by the Merchant’s Guild or the cities near here. This is the state of the world. You may be slightly crazy, but I am very sane.”
The [Princess] halted, then looked up at him. She focused on the bread, as if seeing it for the first time.
“But Garry, we could do it. There are so many ways.”
“Yes. I hope you do. But this is my way.”
Garry thought he saw figures streaming down the side of a hill in the distance. Was that the city…? He shaded his eyes, and Mrsha saw it too. She tugged on her mother’s sleeve.
Mother, we must get Drassi now.
“I—oh, Dragonshit. Garry, keep away from them! We’ll get Drassi!”
Lyonette ran out of view, and the [Baker] sat back upright. After a moment, he commented to his horses.
“I was very rude back there. I hope you weren’t upset by that.”
He paused. They trotted on, and he sighed.
“…You’re animals. You don’t understand what I’m saying. I don’t see what Ksmvr gets out of this. He must think your ability to converse is on par with his team’s.”
 
——
 
General Edellein of Pallass was out-of-contact in the New Lands when Pallass was alerted to the event taking place just north of their territory. All the other Walled Cities were online, and they had to defer to their leadership.
Which was…who?
Several members of the Assembly of Crafts had gone running, searching for someone in charge, but General Shirka and General Forwek had been the only acting [Generals] in the city. Shirka wasn’t politic, and Forwek had declined to take charge, and the [Senators] had realized, to their horror, that left only them.
So that was how Errif and a dozen other [Senators] earned their own daily exercise: running from a secure room where a [Mage] was linked to the other Walled Cities and conveying their replies to the Assembly of Crafts.
Frankly, the average citizen might have more up-to-date info given they could just watch on the scrying orb.
And they were watching. Oh, yes. This wasn’t a Channel 2 slow, B-grade production. Channel 1 was covering it, but it was Drassi who was keeping pace with Garry, holding a microphone up on scrying orb; his face—and the Santa hat—was all over television.
That was possibly why the Drake [Riders] from Gllistove hadn’t attacked yet. One of them was checking a small scrying orb and glancing up at the sky. Shouting for a [Rider] to relay messages back to the city because none of them had speaking stones.
And the Antinium rode on. The Walled Cities were talking.
 
Zeres: They have to have at least one [Archer]. Snipe him.
Oteslia: Zeres, you must be mad.
Zeres (Admiralty): Belay that order. The Serpentine Matriarch is overruled.
Zeres: You can’t do that, Asale!
Fissival: Fissival’s Three are online. Pallass, how did you allow this?
Pallass: Standby.
Manus: No one is to attack at this moment. This is televised, delay of 5 minutes. If an attack is launched, the Hives may retaliate.
Zeres (Matriarch): Okay, don’t attack. Over one Antinium?
Salazsar: Is that a Santa hat? The Defenders of the Wall are being caught up. This Antinium was on television delivering to the north.
Oteslia: Correct, and no one thought he’d be crazy enough to go south. Here we are.
Zeres (Matriarch): I assume the First Gardener is attending? I notice no one has greeted me.
Oteslia: We are all speaking via [Strategists], Serpentine Matriarch. Are you on a personal [Message] scroll?
Zeres (Matriarch): I am. I was tired of having everything relayed. Wait, what is that thing saying? These Soldiers are hideous as I’ve heard.
Salazsar: That’s a Worker. [Appraisal] spells are blocked.
Manus: Garry the [Baker]. Connections to The Wandering Inn and ‘Chess Club Individuals’. Levels unknown. Not a combat-class. Check your dossiers. Attempting to make contact. Standby.
 
The interview between a breathless, nervous Drassi and Garry was rather simple. She was holding her microphone out as her camera-crews filmed her and Garry inside the [World’s Eye Theatre]. They had a close-up of Garry’s smiling face.
“I am smiling, Drassi. This is what Antinium look like when they smile. We raise our mandibles like so.”
He demonstrated, and she glanced over her shoulder at the Drakes—with bows—aiming at him.
“Halt! Halt or die!”
“Get on the ground!”
“I’m with Wistram News Network, don’t shoot! Garry, are you aware you’re riding through Drake lands?”
“I am very aware, Drassi. I am now winking, which is when I move my antenna sideways like—”
“Garry, this is not a joke.”
“I did not think it was, Drassi. I am utterly serious. I am delivering bread to the village of Imec. They are hungry. I trust that these good Drakes will not kill me for attempting to feed hungry people.”
Drassi licked her lips, then thrust her microphone closer.
“And if they do? Garry, we know each other, and you are being watched by everyone in the world. I’d like to reassure my audience that Antinium are not all unthinking monsters, but I am also going to be a [Reporter] and say that this is an extremely provocative move. You know the history of the Antinium Wars. Why would you do this?”
A [Rider] was coming their way. The [Captain] was grimly levelling a light lance at Garry. He was armored light with splint mail, and the Walled Cities began buzzing.
 
Salazsar: His armor is terrible. What’s the rating on this city? Gllistove?
Oteslia: It says 34.5.
Fissival: 34.5??? We have garrisoned towers with a higher combat rating. You can’t even find it on half our maps. Let alone this village the Antinium is claiming he’s going to.
Manus: Imec, founded 62 years ago. Population of 82 at last count. Notes indicate they refused to live in the city of Hilldem due to disagreements over taxation law. No known products of value. Strategists, I remind you that you are being witnessed by High Command.
Salazsar: Our apologies, Manus.
Zeres (Matriarch): No, do go on, this is very entertaining.
Zeres (Asale): The [Baker] is indicating they are experiencing famine. Can we confirm this, and that his cargo is safe?
Oteslia: We’re on it. An agent is buying bread from his store.
Fissival: He could just poison the wagonload, Oteslia. Intercept and detain is probably the best move.
Manus: Establishing contact. Captain Gllitten. Most Drakes have ‘gll’ in their names from this city.
Oteslia: Well, that’s insane.
 
The [Captain] had realized that trying to threaten a wagon with a lance wasn’t really working. Especially because Garry kept moving, so he ended up having to pull the lance up and shout.
“Halt!”
Garry did not halt, but he greeted the [Captain], who hesitated. The Drake was not…willing to grab the reins. While his horse spooked the wagon’s horses, they glanced at Garry and kept moving along. In fact, the Drake was tensed, visibly trembling.
Afraid Garry would go for him?
He was afraid, and Drassi was between them.
“Hello, Captain!”
“Er, you’re that lady on the news. Miss Drassi, Channel 2.”
She was also surreal to the poor man. He’d only seen Drassi on the two scrying orbs placed in the gathering square and park of his city. The one he had was a personal orb from one of the Councilmembers. Now, he was on the news, and he didn’t know what to do.
So he was more genuine than the rest of the world, who had more of a sense of what it meant to be on television. He leaned over the saddle, blinking at her, then snapped his gaze up.
“Antinium! By order of the Walled City of War, you are to halt immediately! I have orders from their High Command—halt or we will shoot you!”
Drassi waved her hands frantically, but Garry replied levelly.
“I trust you will not, Captain. Because—”
“You can talk?”
The [Captain] nearly rode his horse off the side of the road. His city just turned off the scrying orb whenever an Antinium appeared, to avoid unrest. The horrifying bugman was raising his mandibles at the [Captain], and Gllitten hadn’t wanted to say it to Manus, but if he attacked, he feared half his command would flee back to their city.
“I can talk, sir. And with respect to the City of War, I do not believe I have violated any laws. Nor do they have authority over me as a free citizen on the road. Furthermore, I am wearing a Santa hat. And delivering food to your sister-village of Imec. You would surely not shoot an unarmed [Baker] trying to feed the hungry on live television, would you?”
There it was. A twinkle in his eyes. Drassi squinted at Garry.
“Did your eyes just shine, Garry? Er, yes, no killing, please! Although, I have to point out, it’s not Christmas—”
“And you’re not that Santa-fellow! That’s the undead [King] in Chandrar!”
Captain Gllitten clung to what he knew. Which was what he’d seen on the scrying orb, of course. Garry paused.
“You are referring to King Fetohep of Chandrar?”
“Yes, him!”
“He is not Santa. I am. He does have a rather magnificent beard, but if it helps you, Captain Gllitten, it was the village of Imec who wrote to King Fetohep as well, requesting material aid and quite a lot of gold. He forwarded their names to me upon request, so you may also take this as an express delivery from Khelt.”
Both Drassi and the [Captain] stared at Garry. Somewhere, the King of Khelt sat on his throne and ordered a drink. He could use this as a change of pace from his duties. A hopefully nice change of pace.
Fetohep had his doubts.
So did the rest of the world. The [Captain] fumbled for his side. He had burned two [Message] scrolls now since the city didn’t have an unlimited one. He read the flashing scroll, gritting his teeth.
“I have a scrying orb with High Command on it! You are under arrest and will halt your wagon while we sort this out. Excuse me, Miss Drassi.”
“Under what laws are you arresting him, Captain?”
“Er—being an Antinium on the roads! Unsanctioned delivery of goods!”
The [Captain] blustered, and Garry pulled something out of his belt pouch and handed it over. Or tried to; the [Captain] swayed away in his saddle, then stared. So did Drassi. So did everyone.
 
Oteslia: Is that a passport?
 
“This is my official passport and clearance papers as well as my Driver’s Guild permit, Captain. I believe you will find everything in order. I also have my Merchant’s Guild registration if you would like to confirm that. Unlawful detainment of a sworn member of the Merchant’s Guild without due cause is subject to penalty, you know.”
The Merchant’s Guild issued a statement denying its involvement in the following affairs as the [Captain] gingerly, with the tips of his claws, accepted the passport. He read it, then stared at the clearance.
“Grade 4?”
His [Riders] had drawn nearer, and Garry was continuing to head down the road. At a good clip; Drassi had to stop, panting.
“Hold on, my legs are killing me. Can I just…what do you mean I can teleport? I’ve been running around this stupid Skill for the last thirty minutes and you—okay, show me.”
Meanwhile, Garry held the scrying orb that Gllitten had tossed at him up to one earhole. Unlike the worried Drassi or the terrified [Riders], the voice on the other end of the scrying orb was calm.
Very calm.
“Antinium. I am warning you once. Continue your actions and you will be killed. You are not welcome in our lands. Do you understand?”
“Hello. This is not a very pleasant way to introduce oneself. I am Garry. Who is this?”
“Dragonspeaker Luciva. I am not joking around, Antinium.”
“Nor am I, Dragonspeaker. You had your chance. A Drake village is hungry.”
“It is our village, Antinium. Turn around.”
“You do not have the right to starve it. Kill me and everyone will see it. It’s Christmas, Dragonspeaker.”
A pause. Perhaps the Dragonspeaker wasn’t used to someone giving back retorts like Garry. Most people physically could not given her aura. But his voice was…intense. Not like her chilling tone, but no less hard in its way.
“Are you…aware of the date, Antinium? Did your Queens authorize this?”
“I am aware it is spring, Dragonspeaker. Believe me, I have been rained on enough. I was employing a literary tool. It is always Christmas in this analogy. My Queen did not authorize this. I came alone.”
“Then, is it war if you die, Antinium?”
Her voice growled, and he spoke instantly. He raised his voice, and Drassi, edging closer and trying to get the conversation on television, halted.
“No. It will not be. Not for me. That is the opposite of what I wish. If the threat of war is the only thing you respect, I cannot stop you. But I say again: I am delivering food. Just what part of that is unclear?”
“You—”
He tossed the scrying orb over his shoulder and shook his head. She had made her threat. The Walled Cities were watching.
He waved up at them.
 
Manus: Communications have failed. Antinium acting alone. He has indicated the Hives will not, say again, not go to war if he is killed. We are considering options.
Oteslia: He said that? The First Gardener and advisors indicate this is a bad idea for optics, Manus.
Zeres (Matriarch): What optics? Oh, how it looks? We’d be applauded.
Salazsar: He’s claiming to deliver food.
Fissival: It is clearly deranged. Someone get on the news, both channels. It’s everywhere. Start correcting this narrative. Pallass?
Pallass: Who should be arranging this? We have General Edellein being apprised of the situation now. Standby.
Manus: Have General Edellein contact me at once. We will send representatives. Fissival, Salazsar, who has a high-level speaker who can interject? Also, spells to analyze this bread. Couriers may have to deliver a sample. Is Diplomat Nerul available?
Salazsar: He is in consultation but claims to be unavailable.
Fissival: We can do this. Er, who is ‘me’ in Manus?
Manus: This is Dragonspeaker Luciva.
Pallass: Contacting General Edellein at once!
Zeres (Matriarch): Oh, Luciva! I notice you didn’t greet me either.
Manus: We are on the business of the Walled Cities, Ieneessa. Be professional.
Zeres (Asale): This news story is playing on every television network across the world. Lots of little children, Dragonspeaker.
Manus: They surely don’t believe he’s Santa. Multiple individuals were on that broadcast, including the King of Khelt.
Zeres (Asale): No, children, Dragonspeaker. Watching the scrying orbs. Recommending against sniping or blood.
Manus: Of course, noted. Fissival? Can you cut scrying spells on the Antinium as well as broadcasts?
Fissival: We could blank the region, but it’ll take time and setup. We need a zone designated and coordinates locked on first, Dragonspeaker. Wistram and every television station? Not reliably…but the [Scrying] spells going down would blind them. What we cannot be certain of is that Skill that Miss Drassi is using. We’ve been unable to experiment with blocking it since it hasn’t been used on us. So that Miss Drassi has to stop interviewing him. This is Headmaster Tierres, incidentally.
Manus: We’ll get you those coordinates if needed, Headmaster. Reviewing maps.
Oteslia: If it’s really just bread…
Salazsar: It’s an Antinium, Oteslia.
Oteslia: We’ve had them in our lands before. The one in the Gnoll Plains. Entire companies. The Slayer’s been bouncing around cities beating up Named-rank adventurers. And kidnapping Gnollish [Prostitutes] for reasons unknown.
Zeres (Matriarch): What?
Salazsar: The Slayer is their living weapon and there’s no attention being paid to him. This Antinium is making a fool out of us in front of the world.
Oteslia: Oh, there’s a first.
 
——
 
There were plenty of people at this moment who wanted to speak to Garry. Or shake him. Or protect him or…
None of them mattered. In a very real sense, only the Walled Cities did and one other power who represented this intrusion, this breach of authority. And that other faction was the Hives of Izril, and one individual of all of them understood what Garry was doing.
She alone did, because she had perspective. This wasn’t just territory or lives lost or gained or resources. This was about prestige, authority, the worth of a species or nation in visible terms.
The Grand Queen understood that an Antinium found in Drake lands was, if not welcomed, an understood act by the Walled Cities just as they sent infiltrators to sabotage her Hives. She had learned to be politic and what one could get away with.
This, though, was an assault of a different kind upon the Walled City’s power, even if it was merely via perception.
It was dangerous. As dangerous as Bird the Hunter standing in Pallass. Perhaps…more so. She understood this, and this was why she was the greatest Queen of the Hivelands, the one who must lead the others.
The Grand Queen lifted something off of a huge, golden plate. A goblet encrusted with jewels, massive and silver, and filled with wine. A novel treat. The Free Queen made much of her cooking from the same [Chef], Garry, but she did not have this. The [Slaves] holding the plate moved back slowly, and the Grand Queen sipped from the straw.
Wine, cup, and plate were all gifts, of course. From her new allies. Another masterstroke, that Antinium now had allies. But they must be wary; a war now seemed suboptimal to the Grand Queen, and she was in concert with her other Queens, formulating a response. The gesture with the goblet was reflected in their mirrors, in fact, that they might notice.
“Is…that a cup, Grand Queen? What are those? Not Antinium. Captured Humans?”
“Oh, these? [Slaves]. Auxiliary individuals I have procured. Examples will be sent to each Hive in turn. Examples which the Hives will accept as proof of their usefulness.”
The Grand Queen indicated the mixture of species with a practiced wave of a feeler. The other Queens eyed the new additions to the Grand Hive with skepticism or outright scorn. The Free Queen had refused them before, but the Grand Queen would make them all accept them. This was very important to swaying their opinions, according to her contacts in Roshal. Accepting [Slaves] in was the first step, and then they’d be worked on. Made more pliable, more useful, like the Hives should be.
They were not united. The Flying Queen was restless, upset. Showcasing Devrkr who sat, unusually silent, by her side. She had refused to send him to other Hives until a cessation of hostilities was issued by the Free and Armored Queens—which they refused to give. The Twisted Queen’s scrying mirror was very still, and she had gone silent, even more so than usual.
Why, even the Armored Queen was being a skeptic—her, the loyal one!
“Are these…useful, Grand Queen? Our allocation of resources to the Grand Hive now makes sense, but the amount we have given in materials such as gold and other objects for non-Antinium feels odd.”
The other Queens murmured agreement. Only the Silent Queen actually seemed to be trying to be a good subordinate, and even then, she pestered the Grand Queen endlessly about more research, more resources for her projects, and having to send her Silent Antinium away on ships. None of them saw the big picture.
The Grand Queen did, and she spoke waspishly.
“They are capable of levelling at speeds Antinium cannot match.”
“Except for my Antinium.”
The Free Queen put in, and the Grand Queen did not look at her.
“Speeds unmatched by other Antinium and with unique classes. Such as…[Cupbearer].”
“I—I do not see the value in that, Grand Queen.”
“There is…n-none.”
“Silence. I have a full report on how these [Slaves] will be used to great effect, and more are to come. You shall recognize the error of your words and the comforts my new amenities provide. Such as wine.”
“I prefer grape juice.”
Once more, the Grand Queen clicked her mandibles and went on.
“We discuss this upsetting incident. A loss of control of one of the Free Queen’s Antinium, again. Very humiliating. We are in contact with the Walled Cities. Manus specifically. They regard this action as dangerously close to war. It is my decision that we indicate this Individual is acting against our will.”
“What? He is delivering bread. He has done so before. How is this a declaration of war?”
“I concur. The logic does not make sense to me. Are Drakes this foolish?”
“Did we poison the bread? This would be an effective move.”
“A suitably treacherous idea, Flying Queen. Very representative of you.”
“Silence!”
They were not, which annoyed the Grand Queen. Her contacts in Roshal were respectful. The [Slaves] were, but her fellow Queens? This was why she couldn’t allow a war, of course.
Devrkr returning was an asset. The Free Queen was an asset, for all she was foolish. But the Hives were not united. Xrn had been revived. The Grand Queen had to consolidate their power, and so she spoke, sipping more wine from her straw.
“There is no argument to be had. This Individual, Garry the Baker, has acted independently of his Queen. Any Antinium, regardless of level, who disobeys the will of the Hive is insubordinate. Un-Antinium. Therefore, useless. I shall indicate this to Manus.”
The other Queens murmured, but it was the Free Queen who took immediate umbrage to the statement.
“Garry is one of the highest-levelled Antinium in my Hive. His value is beyond compare!”
“An Antinium who does not obey his Queen is a liability. A sign of defective production, Free Queen.”
“An Antinium who does not obey is a Prognugator, Grand Queen. Or a Centenium. They have always told us no.”
Every head but the Twisted Queen’s swung back to the Grand Queen, and there was an oooh from the Flying Queen. The Grand Queen’s mandibles snapped the giant wooden straw.
“You are allocated two Prognugators, Free Queen, no more. You are incapable of creating Prognugator-class Antinium from your Autonomous Antinium project, let alone Centenium. To imply otherwise is falsity beyond measure. I have made my decision.”
She waved a feeler, and the other Queens spoke.
“I request debate on this subject, Grand Queen.”
“Respectfully, my Queen, if this Garry is of sufficient levels, perhaps we could—”
“T-this. Is. Stupid.”
Enraged, the Grand Queen slashed a feeler, and one of the [Slaves] turned the mirrors off. They called her again anyways with the puppet-Workers who spoke with their voices, and she glared as she tried to think. The wine was relaxing, but she felt less…sharp? She liked it a lot, though.
The Hives were not ready for war. This was obvious; a single Antinium who was not Klbkchhezeim, Xrn, or Wrymvr was expendable. What part of this was unclear? She watched the wagon rolling on and wondered out loud—
“How would you save that one short of war, fools?”
Truly, and utterly, she liked his foods when they were sent to her. But look at him.
Just look.
How could any power allow that to continue? She waited, for there was a truth of power, and it was that it could not allow such challenges. The Grand Queen finished dictating a response to the Dragonspeaker of Manus.
It was good to talk to one’s enemies. Another non-Antinium concept, but she was the first Antinium of a new kind. Intelligent. Able to play the games and speak the language of power in Izril. She sipped more wine and waited.
 
——
 
Garry was not arrested at Gllistove by Captain Gllitten. The wary Drakes ‘escorted’ him down the road, but Drassi’s presence, more than anything else, saved him.
Mostly because after interviewing him, she interviewed the Drakes who did not resist the chance to be on television.
“Delivering bread? Who’d eat Antinium…didn’t know they could speak. We don’t even watch them on television.”
“You…you don’t? What do you do when they come on air, then?”
The Drake speaking to Drassi, along with the others, gave her a look as if she were crazy.
“Turn it off like proper individuals, Miss Drassi.”
“What, because you’re afraid of looking at them?”
Like cowards? That one statement provided over an hour of furious debate, because Drassi didn’t say that bit—but Noass did.
The Drake was on Channel 1, taking angry callers, defending himself as he and Sir Relz watched an aerial view of Garry riding his wagon.
You see, despite Garry’s [Fast Travelling] Skill that made this trip possible in days, he still was going a considerable distance, and that took…time. He just rode along, and it was boring. It took hours to get where he was going, but the drama had fuel from everyone else reacting to him. It was becoming an art-form.
“No, I’m not apologizing, callers! And the next Drake who calls me anti-Drake can eat their tail. I’m the most Drake Drake there ever was! I’m from Pallass, and here, we put on our big-boy pants and look at the big, scary Antinium. Gllistove? Gllistove never even saw them, but I was in Pallass when they attacked.”
“Hiding behind the walls! That Antinium should be shot!”
An enraged, female Drake was shouting, and Sir Relz interrupted.
“Er, on live television? And start the next Antinium War, Miss? I’m not saying we don’t have serious ethical and moral concerns here. We of Channel 1 are not Channel 2 news! Let me just state for our audience, worldwide, that there are a number of concerns around this ‘bread’ ‘delivery’ for ‘hungry’ Drakes.”
He made air-quotes with his claws as he swung his chair around to another angle where a second camera was set up and another Drake was on the call.
“I’m going now to a Magus Hitobil from Fissival. Magus, we had a sample of this ‘Garry Bread’ from Liscor transported to you by Fissival’s splendid teleportation networks. Can we verify claims it’s not…poisonous?”
By now, the Walled Cities had come up with a plan. And Magus Hitobil smiled and puffed out his chest as he showed the audience the bread on a clean laboratory table along with a sample piece of it.
The sample loaf…wasn’t as fluffy as Garry’s bread, and someone behind the scenes was screaming at Fissival to get a ‘better’ piece of bread or to ding up the next piece of Garry Bread off-camera.
It was about winning the audience—not just Drakes, but other species. And the other species were having a grand time with this. Everyone from Ulva Terland and her nephew, Lord Molen, to Chieftain Feshi and Adetr were watching with amusement or consternation, taking sides.
Obviously, the Antinium was a horrific bug-monster, and who wanted his bread? On the other hand…the Drakes were pretty great at making their opponents look good, sometimes. But this was the attempt.
“Ha-ha, yes, glad to be on the broadcast, Sir Relz! Fissival’s teleportation networks—better than Archmage Valeterisa’s—brought me the bread, indeed! Now, I’m going to conduct a few tests here to ensure the bread isn’t poisonous. But, well, there’s quite a lot of things you can do wrong in baking. Improper heating? Food poisoning. Wrong, dare I say, buglike materials? That won’t go down well! Too much salt?”
Too much salt? The thing was—the Drake was casting spells and talking a lot about the rather confusing results from [Oedman’s Ostentatious Gastronomic Analysis], a very dedicated spell, but the bread was not, in fact…poisonous.
Magus Hitobil would have loved to claim it was. Problem solved, look at this poison I found in the bread. The problem was, in fact, Sir Relz and Drassi. The [Reporter] was beaming at Magus Hitobil.
“If you’re just tuning in, ladies and gentlemen, we’re trying to see if this bread the Antinium is delivering is hazardous! I’m Sir Relz, and Magus Hitobil was just explaining that it’s passed a pre-emptive [Detect Poison] spell, but he has reservations. Just, uh, out of clarity here, you did state it was poisonous on Channel 2 News, Magus. Which you appeared on before us. But Reporter Drassi, a personal friend, did call you out with her [Detect Lie] Skill.”
The nervous [Mage] coughed a few times into one claw, turning red.
“A mistake, Sir Relz, I assure you! It seems there was some contamination added at some point which was entirely reasonable of me to assume—”
“From the teleportation grid, perhaps?”
“What? Nonono, Fissival’s teleportation network is utterly poison-free.”
Ding.
Sir Relz’s monocle lit up bright red, and Magus Hitobil froze. Sir Relz, like Drassi, had a [Lie Detector] Skill far more advanced than your average [Detect Truth] stone. Something you had to work around.
Someone in Fissival’s command rooms was not happy as the Magus had to walk back another statement.
“There is no poison in Fissival’s teleportation spells aside from the poison that is teleported at times—and it is clear in, uh, 99.9% of cases. What I mean to say, Sir Relz, is that I have reservations. About the bread. Let’s focus on the bread. Please. It may be passing some of our spells, though [Oedman’s Ostentatious Gastronomic Analysis] does not present yes-no binaries, merely a cavalcade of data outputs, and some of the readings were unusual—”
“For a bread altered by Skills, it would fall within acceptable margins?”
Sir Relz’s brows were raised high, but he was the picture of concerned skepticism. The Magus nodded, relieved.
“And look at this exceptionally concerning demonstration.”
He lifted a cage where a rather fat roach was crawling around. Sir Relz recoiled.
“I say, Magus, we’re on air!”
“Just watch!”
A piece of Garry’s bread was added to the cage, and the hungry roach scurried over to it. It took a few nibbles as Sir Relz watched, making a face. Then the roach jerked, scrambled back, twitched violently—and promptly folded its legs and rolled onto its back.
“Dead?”
“Now, this appears to be alarming, Sir Relz. We can’t establish the exact phenomenon, but if this bread had any toxins I were missing, I can estimate from how much bread that bug consumed and extrapolate that a full slice…well, a full slice might well kill someone. Butter or not.”
“Butter or not. Dead gods. That is something to worry about, Magus. Please, let us know if your testing finds out if that is poison. You heard it here first, everyone. Noass, back to you.”
That demonstration was certainly alarming. The Drakes in Fissival had been catching rats to also showcase the effects of this bread. [Pestkiller] was one of Garry’s Skills, after all, and everyone was watching.
Well, everyone was watching Channel 1, or flipping to it every now and then. It occupied a 33% share of Wistram News Network. And 45% were watching Channel 2.
2% were watching a football game on Channel 4, sports. But what they saw on Channel 2 News was, ah…
 
——
 
Menolit finished making his food and took the largest bite he could out of the Garry Bread sandwich. He chewed, crunching down his signature fish salad sandwich complete with pan-fried fish, Liscor’s local sauce, and leafy greens from the Unseen Empire on toasted bread from the Liscorian Free Bakery.
He swallowed, burped, and patted his mouth with a napkin.
“Excuse me.”
Drassi took her own bite of the sandwich and chewed.
“Yep, that’s good bread. And I believe our audience is probably getting bored of watching bread rise. But as you can see, the bread coming from Liscor’s bakery is being made according to, well, bread-making specifications. Not even by Antinium a lot of the time!”
They had a camera-crew in the bakery who had watched a nervous Gnoll mixing up some bread to get to the bottom of the poison claims. Menolit nodded.
“It’s bread. Buy one for a Liscorian Mark, cheap as can be! If Channel 1 News wanted, they could get one and take a bite. But hey, I’m happy to eat for them since I’m no coward.”
Drassi smirked and hid a smile. After a second, someone kicked their door open.
“I heard that! Who the hell’s calling me a coward?”
Noass rushed onto the set, and Menolit got up.
“I did! Eat the sandwich, fool! C’mon!”
“Don’t shove your inferior sandwich in my face! I’m not afraid of any kind of bread!”
“Hey, break it up, break it up!”
Drassi had to interject before the two Drakes threw hands live on the air. However, there was reasonable doubt about the quality of the bread, at least from [Reporters] calling into both channels and other rival Izrilian channels. Even other news networks conducted street-polls and found that some people were worried that Antinium-made bread would be, in some way, bad for you.
It was a reasonable concern and, therefore, a success on Fissival’s side to interject that note of uncertainty into the narrative. And Garry did nothing as he rode along. That [Baker] didn’t have social Skills or political savvy. He was a fool.
A fool…who remembered something that everyone seemed to have forgotten.
 
——
 
His first delivery at Imec was after seven straight hours of riding. Exhausted horses rested as he hopped out of the wagon at the limits to the village.
It had walls. It was, after all, a Drake village, but a poor one. A place settled by Drakes who refused to live in their local city. Eighty-two inhabitants.
Hungry.
The five-foot walls had Drakes standing behind them, aiming a handful of bows at him. They knew he was coming, of course. [Riders] had streamed towards their village, and someone had to show them a [Message] scroll since they didn’t have one themselves.
Garry did not enter the village. Instead, he patted the horses, then placed something on the ground.
A tarp. He anchored it with four rocks as the Drakes watched.
Antinium.
The sheer fear of him had them drawing back every time he turned towards them, but the Worker just walked back to the wagon, then over to the tarp four hundred feet from the village ‘gate’. He placed loaves of bread down and stacked them. Added bags which turned out to contain beans, seeds, salt, and so on.
It took Garry twenty minutes to unload the wagon. When he finished, he dusted his hands and called out.
“This bread is for you! Please eat it and store it in a dry, cool place! It will keep for a long time, and it is a nutritious meal. It also kills pests!”
“Go—go—”
One of the Drakes stuttered, waving a spear at him, but then fell silent as he looked at her. Garry stared at tiny shapes peeking out windows, who ducked down. He stood there, gazing around at the sky, at the rocks around this village and wondered, plainly, how you could farm here.
Why would anyone live here? He didn’t know. Then again, his home flooded annually. He did not know them, and he was reasonably sure that if he walked closer, they’d run or fire arrows at him.
But even so, when he got back in the wagon, he did not drive off to his next destination. He headed up the road a thousand paces and stopped. Then he turned in his seat and waited. Like everyone else.
Garry had to see, you see.
 
——
 
“Can we get a reporter on the ground? No? Damn. As you can see, everyone, we’re at the village of Imec, and Channel 2 may be able to interview them—but don’t change channels!”
Sir Relz was cursing Drassi’s ability to do that as he peered at the magnified image of Garry’s bread. He and Noass were leaning away from the sample of bread they’d procured.
“Now, the Antinium, Garry the Baker, has placed the bread on the ground, avoiding conflict with Imec. No doubt they’re forewarned, but an Antinium appearing at your walls? Has to be terrifying, Noass. Even now, when I see them on my visits to Liscor, my heart skips a beat.”
Noass turned.
“You visit Liscor, Relz?”
“Oh, uh, now and then on my off-days. I wanted one of those new charms…”
“You should have taken me!”
“You were working! The next time, then. But look!”
A few villagers had left Imec’s walls. Well, more like vaulted it. Noass murmured.
“Ancestors, Sir Relz. They are a bit…thin. Is that a trick of the eyes or what? [Unprecedented Viewing Angle]!”
The scrying spell zoomed in, and Sir Relz made a sound as it gave them a look at the Drakes no mere spell or camera could afford.
“They are thin. Dead gods. It stands to reason. A harsh winter here? Yellats would probably be your main crop given the soil. Or—what do you grow in such places? It appears we weren’t misled about the, uh—uh—privation these villagers are facing. Does their local city not have food?”
“I think we heard it was in conflict with the city, Sir Relz? So it’s independent.”
“Even so—well, as we can see, they’re investigating the bread stack. Give the Antinium this: it’s a very symmetrical pile. But are they going to check it for poison? Now how would they do that without dedicated [Mages], Noass? Feed it to animals? Or perhaps the old ‘sniff and skin’ test? A sample eaten by a volunteer and monitored at—oh. Oh wait. They’re, uh, eating it.”
He and Noass stared. After a moment, Noass coughed.
“Yes. Erm. Well, they’re hungry. Understandable.”
“Quite. I, uh—those poor people. Oh, and there’s Drassi doing an interview. Let’s watch.”
 
——
 
They. Were. Hungry.
That was the thing that the Walled Cities’ strategists and experts forgot. The reason he had come. Garry leaned in the driver’s seat in his wagon, and his heart hurt.
It hurt. His chest filled with outrage…and relief. And guilt that he had not come faster.
“I’m sorry.”
No one had come here. Had they known? The [Riders] watching him, the [Traders] who’d marked this place as not worth the visit except to gain cheap goods?
They sold their boots. Garry saw them glancing up at him now and then. After a moment, he leapt off the wagon and ran back.
They scattered like flies. But he only halted to shout.
“Miss Drassi! Do not let them eat too fast! They must eat slowly!”
She started, then realized what he was referring to, the dangers of refeeding. Garry cursed himself as he swung back into his chair. He needed to write a note. He watched as Drassi ran over, trying to stop a little Drake from stuffing their face, but they were eating.
That was all he wanted. Garry watched for another minute, just to see them slow eating, and then turned.
“Let’s go, horses.”
He fed them lumps of sugar, gave them a pat and a bit of stamina-potion, and he was off. And what did you think of him then? Everyone argued. They loved to argue, but Garry just rode through the night towards the next destination. Another remote village.
He was not ignorant of public sentiment. He just had a fairly good understanding of how useful it was in reality. He let Drassi do what Drassi did best. Into the night, people kept talking.
 
——
 
It was, after all, a humanitarian story. Even if no Humans were involved in said story. It was fascinating because it was an Antinium delivering aid to Drakes.
It was captivating because he wore that Santa’s hat. And the beard.
That alone made someone stop. That alone made it very hard for Drakes to scream about him being a monster, because it was a very funny beard and hat. That was why little children peered at their parents and asked…
“Is that Santa? The real one?”
A young boy sat on the lap of his father, jiggling up and down as he was bounced, eyes locked on the scrying orb. He was Human, round-cheeked, very pale of skin, and already a bit tall despite being only five.
The boy was dressed in clothing like an eclipse, only the faintest pale lines distinguishing the utter blackness of his garbs. Rich clothing, but stylized. For the boy was a [Prince].
The question threw the royal court into murmurs at the silly nature of it, but they had watched, and when the boy’s father replied, it was absently and unprecedentedly.
“I don’t know, my boy. It seems like it, doesn’t it?”
A full gasp now. But the [King] who sat upon the throne had the attention of the entire Court of Dusks. Cobwebs and spiders—lots of spiders—hung overhead as King Allorev Nicte, King of Noelictus, King of Hosts, sat with his youngest son.
An audience like so many. But royalty, so in theory, more important an audience than most. Even if they were far from this moment. Gedal was yawning since it was late, but he was Noelictan so he’d go to sleep well past midnight, even as a boy. He murmured.
“His bread looks nice. Like it’s made of baked light.”
To him, used to Ashwheat, it surely seemed bright as day and foreign. Allorev chuckled.
“Yes, it’s quite appealing, horrified Drakes or not. The people he fed seemed to enjoy it, didn’t they?”
“They were awfully thin. Are…are there hungry people like that all over?”
Then it was the father’s turn to grimace with the weight of a [King], but also a parent who had to tell his son the world had sadness in it. But Gedal was a son of Noelictus where the dead rose eternal.
He knew that.
“Yes…yes, Gedal, there are. Even in Noelictus, at times, though we tend to make enough food that it’s one of the few things we don’t have to worry about. It’s why we have silos and storage for food. But yes: across Terandria, I imagine there are villages like these.”
“Even though we have the kingdoms?”
“Even then, Gedal. Sometimes the [Kings]…”
Allorev hesitated. He didn’t want to say ‘forget’, because that wasn’t true.
“Sometimes we overlook things we think of as small. It’s not right, but that’s what happens. This [Baker] seems to pay attention, though.”
The King of Shade had been watching. Wondering how this story would end. But it was his son who stared at that red hat and remembered the gifts that ‘Santa’ had left him on Christmas, to his delight.
“Dad. Don’t we make a lot of bread?”
“Oh, delicious bread, m’boy. Ashwheat by bushels upon bushels. Haven’t you eaten some this very night?”
Gedal had since everyone was hankering for a sandwich or bread after hearing it discussed so much. But he had an idea.
“Could we give bread if people are hungry? To villages?”
It was a child’s idea, a simple train of logic, and it made the King of Shade’s face light up. He ran a hand across his hair, and a smile split his lips.
“Well, why not? If an Antinium can send a single wagon, the Kingdom of Shade can send more! Would you like that, Gedal?”
“Yes!”
The boy brightened up, and King Nicte glanced around. His Landsreight, his court of nobles, susurrated with approval. Ah, of course! If he was doing it—
It wasn’t just for show, though surely that was motivation for many, much like the other times nations had vied for attention. But King Allorev just murmured.
“It might be a trick if they’re not in our lands. Shaming another kingdom’s risky business, Gedal.”
“Why would they be upset if someone’s hungry?”
“Ah. Well. That’s something I don’t know if I can explain while you’re sleepy. But we’ll see it done. Allow me a moment to speak with your mother. It shall put a smile on her face. Oh, and I suppose we’d better call into these television networks. Advertise and whatnot.”
After all, the King of Hosts was a savvy man when it came to attention and spectacle. Politicking, gain, peacocking—he rolled his eyes, but Allorev was glad it was distracting Gedal. Otherwise, the boy would be worrying about Cara like everyone else…he glanced at the boy who’d curled up on the throne, dozing a bit.
The intention was pure as a child’s desire to help. He glanced once more at the Antinium. Perhaps that was the difficulty the Drakes had. You could cut apart someone else’s plans, designs, schemes, but simple intention was hard. They might not even believe it was just simple desire to help.
King Allorev shook his head. He was in no position to lecture other foreign powers, but if he were to have given the Drakes some advice…
“I’d make sure no one touched a hair on his head and sent Couriers racing ahead of him with deliveries of my own. Funny. I don’t believe a single one of them has considered that yet.”
But what did he know?
 
——
 
Into the night, and the next morning, Garry rode. As the day dawned, he ate half a piece of Scaethen Bread and shared the rest with the horses, having slept in the wagon, and kept rumbling along. This was the day when it grew…difficult, but it began with a trial of sorts.
“Order! Order! One voice at a time or I will eject you from this conversation! We are gathered to debate the actions of an Antinium delivering bread. Prima facie, the case is ludicrous, yet it has true ramifications for Izril. It captivates the eye; already he is heading to another Drake town, higher in the foothills, known as Aethdell’s Summit.”
A woman banged the hilt of a rapier on a podium where she stood as the other voices died down. She spoke into the camera, her green hair combed and enhanced with an alchemist’s tonic, wearing the crown of her kingdom and adorned in royal finery. Her voice was level.
“The question before us is: should the Drakes stop him? Does he violate any laws of either actual law or principle, as the Antinium have made war on the Drakes? I will render my own judgement, such as it is, but I invite, first and foremost, King Allorev Nicte of Noelictus to speak. King of Shade, I have heard you have organized a convoy of your own. Will you discuss this?”
The Arbiter Queen and a dozen other callers on the morning segment debating the bread delivery turned as King Allorev smiled into the camera. And yes, multiple monarchs across the world had taken time out of their not-very-pressing days, in most cases, to weigh in on the Antinium’s journey.
Actually, it had been a fight by many to get on this broadcast. King Allorev had been the first to announce his actions, and Jecaina was enduringly popular, but a certain King of Medain hadn’t even gotten on the reserve list despite offering to send fifty caravans of bread if it got him a slot.
It was just the morning show while Garry finished breakfast and rode on. By now, the machine of television was producing more content about the event that was ongoing to feed its hungry audience. A few things of note made the broadcast event-worthy.
Firstly, it was a reminder that the power that Santa had was worldwide. Drassi, Sir Relz, and Noass had plenty of callers who’d written in opining about Garry and asking if he really was the spirit of Christmas. Most non-Izrilians had a lot more sympathy towards the Antinium.
Secondly, the Arbiter Queen was on this call giving her opinion, making the other rulers shut up and listen, and ejecting anyone who didn’t want to be silent.
Not…King Raelt of Jecrass. The celebrated King of Duels who’d pursued the war against Medain and split his nation with his peace-loving daughter paused in the background behind Queen Jecaina, munching on a banana in some pajamas. He stared at the camera until she covertly waved him off-screen. His expression of surprise at his daughter’s aplomb, in her element, made King Allorev smile and nearly laugh, but a touch sadly.
“—And so we are sending our own Ashwheat bread out, but I must repeat that it is no attempt to impugn my cousin kingdoms. It is simply a reality, Arbiter Queen, that information is sometimes lost. Officials become corrupt or die, or people slip through the cracks.”
She nodded slowly, eyes alight on him, and lest you think she’d lost her edge—Jecaina took a breath.
“Your words, King of Hosts, are indeed kind. But too kind, perhaps? I believe you speak to avoid offending your neighbors by implying any citizen of theirs who starves is the fault of the crown. But if a subject does starve in the borders of our nations, is it not still the responsibility of the crown? Regardless if we were aware or not, does the guilt not belong to us, and if not us, then who?”
King Allorev dipped his head in agreement, a slight smile on his lips. Jecaina pointed.
“Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus. You had an opinion?”
Allorev’s eyes flashed at Rhisveri, but the Wyrm polished his fingernails on his jacket.
“Oh, merely a comment. Absolutely the shame of it falls upon the throne! I, myself, have petitioned my brother, His Majesty, to send out similar tokens of aid to Taimaguros Dominion. Lovely nation, but Taima and Gura fight, and an outside force will make the matter less…fraught.”
“Not within Ailendamus’ own lands, Duke?”
Rhisveri’s smirk increased.
“Well, we would. If anyone were going hungry in our kingdom. And before one speaks, I do invite you to find an example. If one was found, it would be instantly corrected. I cannot imagine the inefficiencies of rule that lead to one leaving their citizens to starve! Though I would toss the Antinium in prison for violating my sovereign territory.”
He began a furious argument, instantaneously, as every other member of the call turned on him. Jecaina sighed, though inwardly, she was content. Every conversation needed a villain, and the Duke was a very good one.
They argued, bickered, remembered their consciences, and watched. Forgetting, perhaps, that this was a Drake affair. Drake and Antinium. The Walled Cities had not spent the night idle.
 
——
 
The [Assassins] of the south had their own guild, even if they weren’t numerous as the north were, or had been.
They also had two kinds of contracts. Official and unofficial. That was, from a city or not. Private individuals or a client whose opinion mattered a touch more.
Pay still had to be good, but the mostly-Drake [Assassins] could sometimes be patriotic. That also differed; Symphony was a known supporter of their Walled City. Admirable? Stupid? Who could say? One didn’t speak ill of other professionals, and they had excellent concerts you could get a ticket to, cheap.
The point was, sometimes you took a job because you believed in things. Like, say, that the Antinium were a menace. Of course, the flipside of the coin was wondering if you were about to start the Third Antinium War.
The six [Assassins] had thought about it on the sleepless ride north as they abandoned their horses and climbed into the foothills. They weren’t the deadliest, but rather, the fastest.
There weren’t many of them this far north. None around Imec. There just…wasn’t work here. Dead gods, it really was the boonies. Most of the time, you ignored contracts even if someone wanted to off a Yoldenite or something because it wasn’t worth the slog all the way here and back.
“There’s a bounty on a Strategos Olesm. Not much given the dangers. Anyone up for that after this?”
One of the six Drakes whispered as the others spread out along a ridgeline overlooking the road where the Antinium was coming. He was just riding his wagon along at a steady pace.
Ludicrously easy to hit. The one complication was timing; they had to wait for an ‘all-clear’ and then dispatch him in a five-minute window. Scrying spells.
One of the Drakes, hired by Salazsar—each one came from a different Walled City with mostly-similar instructions—grunted. He was stringing a longbow and keeping well away from any [Scrying] spells that might be on the area. Once he was done, he’d make it known he was in on the kill, but being seen was super unprofessional.
Mind you—he glanced at the chatty Drake from Zeres.
“Are you planning to go down there with an axe?”
The Drake woman lifted a battleaxe.
“Sure. You can take the shot, but I’ve got orders to make sure he’s dead. You know, Antinium? Say, have we met?”
“Possibly.”
The two whispering Drakes got a glower from another one who had blowdarts and was leaning out of cover. They fell silent, and the Salazsarian [Assassin] moved over and whispered.
“Pardon.”
“It’s fine. Six of us—I’m probably not getting paid.”
She heaved a sigh, and he raised his brows.
“What’s your city? Mine is paid upon completion, regardless of who swings.”
“Mine’s Oteslia. They just want him knocked out or the wagon stopped.”
“Ah. Do we have a problem?”
It’d be five-versus one. The blowpipe-wielding Drake lifted her claws and let the blowpipe fall out of her mouth.
“I’m not going to ruin good business. Just a long ride and an unhappy client for nothing, you know?”
“Ah. Of course. Let me buy you a drink later.”
“Thanks. Here he comes.”
The longbow [Assassin] moved back into position, glancing at the [Message] scroll he’d laid out. He’d indicated he was at the spot, and he was waiting for confirmation, mostly hoping some other idiot didn’t foul things up.
What did he think about Garry’s delivery? Well, if anyone had asked him, he’d have said that he knew some veterans from the Antinium Wars—both of them—who’d fought the Silent Antinium. Deadly battles against the camouflaged killers, and no one had ever applauded them for it publicly except Krsysl Wordsmith. It was one of the reasons why no one had ever accepted a bounty on the [Writer] even though he’d made enemies.
This? This was just business. If it were a Human delivering bread? Well, the [Assassin] might have still taken the job; work was work. Hard to have principles in this line of employment. But he liked to believe the bread was off or poisonous or something.
Otherwise, he’d feel like this was a waste of a lot of things, including his arrow. The Drake drew back on the bowstring as the Antinium came into view, and the [Message] scroll pinged. He whispered.
“Shame.”
“Isn’t it?”
For a moment, he thought the quiet, female voice was from the Oteslian [Assassin]. But it was a bit too loud, accented differently. The Drake paused, then swung his longbow around in an instant.
[Point Blank Sh—]
No one was there. He stared around, then saw a man in a [Butler]’s uniform offering the Oteslian [Assassin] a flower. She had her hands up. And she was staring at the Salazsarian [Assassin]. No, behind—
Ressa, still out-of-uniform because she’d had to run a long ways and was sweaty, leaned on the [Assassin]’s shoulder.
“It really is a waste of gold and everyone’s time. My fair lady wants to make it clear: she’s on the right side, but she detests a waste. Not just your fee, but four months.”
“What’s, uh, what’s the four months?”
“Recovery time.”
He twisted, going for his dagger, and heard a crick. That was his neck.
Ressa laid down the Drake [Assassin] very carefully as he stared up at her, and four more figures collapsed. She wiped her hands, then turned to Reynold’s [Assassin], who was the only one not currently in need of medical attention.
“Clean up for us. Tell the Guild the Flower Lady isn’t happy.”
“Er, of course. Is that the Flower Lady as in…or the Pink Lady?”
Ressa rolled her eyes.
“Whatever she’s supposed to be called.”
Then she began looting the [Assassins] because, well, you always could use some more gear. The [Message] scroll was still blinking.
 
S: Go.
S: Status?
S: Report.
Assassin: Sorry, job’s failed. Build some more walls instead of trying to kill a [Baker].
S: Who is this?
 
Ressa thought about it for a moment, then began illustrating something on the [Message] scroll. Reynold winced at the phallic imagery.
“I thought Lady Reinhart told us to be diplomatic, Ressa…?”
She raised her brows at him. He shut up.
Garry’s wagon rumbled on as the [Baker] glanced up at the silent ridgeline. He kept humming to himself.
“If this is where I were ambushing, it’s where I’d put it. La-la, dumbledy dee—”
Nope, he didn’t like singing either. He sighed.
 
——
 
The city of Luldem, part of the Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia Alliance, was close enough to Garry’s next destination that he was passing through their claimed territory.
They were only too happy to state to Sir Relz that they did not approve of Antinium feeding anyone in their area and dispatch an armed unit of [Soldiers] to sort the matter out. What was the worst that was going to happen? More war?
They might have underestimated what that kind of news would do to the frontlines when the Antinium [Crusaders] and a certain [Strategist] heard their statement, but that was a later consequence, and no one had accused the Hectval Alliance of being good at predicting those.
The very real, very immediate danger was an armored contingent of [Soldiers] riding up the road to find Garry, and they weren’t the only one. Several other Drake groups were coming towards him, some of whom had indeed been riding through the night, like the [Assassins].
The Luldem Drakes were almost at a crossroads where they’d catch the wagon coming down out of the pass when they heard a shout. They whirled in alarm, but the Drake poked his head out of the bushes and roared.
“[Soldiers]! What are you doing out of position?”
“Sir?”
The [Captain] of the Luldem troops blinked as a Drake in an unfamiliar uniform rose, clearly camouflaged with little branches and leaves glued to his armor. The Drake hissed.
“Give me your damn rank, [Private], and tell me you’ve got either an enemy bearing down on our six or a good reason or I’ll have you court-martialed for incompetence! The Yoldenites are nearly on us, and you’re breaking our trap!”
The Yoldenites? The Luldem [Soldiers] spun, now worried. The damn Yoldenites fought and attacked like real hill-Drakes, and they knew the terrain well. The [Captain] hesitated and rode forwards.
“We’re not after them, sir. We have orders to dispatch the Antinium.”
“The Antinium? What Antinium?”
“The…the one with the bread, sir.”
Wait a second. Any Antinium were the enemy, surely? But the Drake with camouflage armor was giving the [Captain] a strange look. Then they both checked out each other’s uniforms.
“Wait a second. You’re not a Savilite officer!”
And that Drake wasn’t from the alliance! The Luldem forces recoiled, and the camouflaged Drake’s eyes narrowed.
“Luldem? You bastards are in our territory! We’re being raided!”
“Wait, no, that’s not true!”
The Luldem soldiers began to panic. This was Savilite’s territory, but the Drake city which sometimes clashed with the Alliance had to know—
Unless they were also at war with the Yoldenites. But that concern was becoming a sudden, increasing worry as the outraged Drake spun. His stump of a tail brushed against the ground as he shouted.
“Enemy attack! It’s Luldem! Take aim!”
“Back, back!”
The Luldem [Soldiers] spun their horses as figures armed with crossbows seemed to rise up from the ground or pop out from behind rocks. They must have been using ambush Skills! Drakes and even Gnolls—
“Fall back! Don’t shoot! We’re not at war! Fall back!”
The [Captain] screamed at the other officer, praying he didn’t hear the ‘loose’ order, and the Savilite officer hesitated. Luldem’s forces fell back in a panic, galloping for their lives. They began sending desperate [Messages] back to their High Command as the angry Savilites kept shouting.
Only when they were out of sight did Menolit adjust his uniform and take off the helmet. He winked at Nanette, who’d done the designs for Savilite armor based on some sketches Ser Dalimont had found.
“That’s one group down. Okay, places everyone!”
 
——
 
Another group of [Riders] had been dispatched from the relatively distant city of Holls to deal with the Antinium. They were sleep-deprived, and their horses were exhausted from a sleepless ride, but an Antinium was an Antinium.
Greatest threat to Izril. It had to be, right? There was nothing worse than an Antinium in their lands. Nothing.
That was what the [Lieutenant] thought as she led her column up the road—but the sight of a dead child lying with her guts strewn on the ground rapidly changed her mind.
A crying Gnoll cub was howling in front of the dead Drake girl as the [Riders] blanched.
“Ancestors. We’re too late! The Antinium—”
“Visma. Vismaaaaa! They ate her! Oh no! Now they’re going to eat me!”
The crying Gnoll boy ran at them. He looked slightly—the dead Drake girl was really distracting the horrified [Soldiers].
“You there, what did this?”
The Gnoll boy pointed a trembling paw.
“Crelers! We ran and ran, but there’s hundreds and—”
“A Creler nest?”
All thoughts of the Antinium threat left the [Lieutenant]’s mind. The blood-soaked Gnoll boy pointed.
“They—they attacked us, and we ran, but there’s hundreds! And a big one, tall as a house.”
“Lieutenant, an Adult Creler—”
“Where?”
Ekirra pointed and then began to run.
“Oh no, I hear them! Now they’re going to eat meeeee—”
He dashed off on all fours as a horrible chittering sound arose. Far off, but the [Lieutenant] was grasping at a [Message] scroll.
“Prepare for combat. We have to see. Ancestors—I’m messaging High Command, and we’ll need reinforcements. Prepare to engage and ride like hell! Kid—”
She cast around, but he had vanished. Cursing, the [Lieutenant] ordered some to find the child as she rode, demanding to know how many healing potions they had. Only, the chittering died down, and the Drakes didn’t see the foe—but Crelers were known to hide and ambush. They could be anywhere! The Drakes had to keep searching—
 
——
 
Ekirra was not a good actor. Mrsha and Nanette would have done his job, but, Mrsha couldn’t speak, and Nanette was a Human, so the act was harder to pull off.
Nevertheless, more than one Drake patrol was diverted by strange happenings. Creler attacks, mysterious orders, and even once, just a ghost Gnoll child popping out of the ground and scaring their horses.
Disappearing [Assassins]. Waylaid soldiers. Garry rolled out of the pass as the morning dawned on his carapace, and he heard a half-musical twang.
He twisted, and the arrow struck him in the shoulder. It drove an inch into his carapace, and he flinched. Green blood ran down from his shoulder, and a figure leapt up and fled—the Worker lifted his arms, shielding his face.
The second arrow struck his hand and glanced off. He took cover as the horses kept plodding on, and the celebrating in The Wandering Inn went quiet. The [Baker] waited, crouched low.
The second volley didn’t come. After a second, he snapped the arrow in his shoulder and tried to yank the arrowhead out.
“Ow.”
 
——
 
“Which group was that?”
Dragonspeaker Luciva was enduring someone putting makeup on her scales. Not to hide her greying ones, just to play up some features. She glanced at a [Strategist], and the Gnoll checked his notes.
“We don’t know, Dragonspeaker. Not ours. There was no timing. It could have been any number of local groups or even ones far off.”
She glanced at the scrying orb. The wagon was still rolling. The [Baker] had removed the arrow and dressed his wounds with decent speed. Luciva’s claws drummed on the armchair. Drassi’s Channel 2 had covered the entire moment, and the Arbiter Queen and her guests were arguing on Channel 3 about it.
“I see. Identify them and have the report ready in the hour.”
“Yes, Dragonspeaker.”
Luciva re-focused on her job. She didn’t like the polls that they were showing her, but numbers were numbers, assuming they were accurate. Nevertheless, this situation was becoming—political. The [Strategist] flipped back to the first page.
“Your interview with Reporter Drassi is in fourteen minutes, Dragonspeaker. I repeat, this is the language you must use regarding the Antinium.”
“I’ve memorized my lines, [Strategist].”
She read them anyways. The [Strategist] continued adding commentary, more nervous than she was.
“Her Skill is able to best any countermeasures we have for a standard truth stone, and we cannot ascertain which countermeasures, if any, will bypass the Skill, so you must use wording you can justifiably claim as true, Dragonspeaker. If you need help, drum your claws. We have a five-minute delay, but Wistram may well save the recording.”
“Don’t get into trouble. Understood.”
Luciva grimaced as she looked at the many ways she could claim that Garry the Baker was carrying a threat to Drake safety. It was not a statement she personally thought was a lie, either. On many levels, he could be carrying threats, even if the possibility…
Enough for this interview. She was honestly surprised Drassi had possessed the stones to interview her, but the Dragonspeaker had felt like it was a good example to move Drake sentiment back where it needed to be.
That there were doubts at all…she grimaced.
“Television is an uncontrollable force. We need more experts in social dynamics.”
“Especially with their Skills defeating our countermeasures for truth spells.”
The [Strategist] added sourly. He was comfortable voicing his opinion around a superior, but Luciva just glanced up. Her lightning-bright gaze wasn’t as annoyed as his.
“Defeating truth spells. Is that the kind of world we want to live in?”
Most people didn’t know you could do that. If they did, they’d not trust the Watch or a lot of official bodies, but sometimes Luciva wondered. After all, if she knew you could defeat a truth stone, then it cast into doubt…a lot. It would make for a more suspicious world. A more chaotic one.
But perhaps…she shook her head.
“Eleven minutes, Dragonspeaker. Do you need anything? Calming tonic?”
“This isn’t a war, soldier. No.”
She smiled, amused. They were going to put Skills on her. Manus [War Bards] were lined up with Skills like [Eloquence of Speech], and someone had cast [Mental Clarity] on her, as if Drassi were a high-level enemy officer.
Well, in a way, she was. Luciva knew her job, though.
Talk about the threat he can reasonably possess. Talk about the Antinium Wars. The knowledge we have of the Hives. Talk about the moments when Antinium had attacked Drakes despite the truce, even if it meant acknowledging the reverse was true.
The truth was easy. She heard a voice.
“Eight minutes to the call, Dragonspeaker.”
“Mhm. What’s with the door? I thought I was giving the interview here.”
Luciva waited for a response. Then her eyes snapped open, and she rose, drawing a shortsword. She whirled, and time had stopped. The Dragonspeaker pointed her blade at the door, and her eyes narrowed.
“What is this?”
A report was taped to the door. She hesitated, eyed her surroundings, and snatched it. Her mind was going down a shortlist of who this could be. Belavierr? If it was the Demons and she was hit with a [Timestop], she was dead already, so she read.
If this is enchanted with [Explosive Words], I’m going to be very upset.
It was not. The Dragonspeaker blinked, then flipped the page. The report was set out in precise handwriting, listing the specifications of the Skill, the terrain she was entering, and the battlegrounds. She grunted.
“Hm.”
She paced around the door, then took the handle.
Information was vital. Besides—she gazed into the empty landscape and nodded before marching down the road in the void towards the gazebo.
“I thought I should meet you, eventually.”
Erin Solstice sat in her [Pavilion of Secrets], and the truth sprang from Dragonspeaker Luciva’s lips. She added, calmly, as she pulled the seat out.
“I don’t know if I should have had you killed. I don’t think you’re Manus’ enemy. But I do believe your actions can go against that of the City of War. Are you responsible for this?”
The [Innkeeper] wore a sad smile on her face. But there was an intensity around her that Luciva respected. The Dragonspeaker sat forwards as their auras met.
An inn’s sanctity versus a raging battleground. Neither one pressed—but the divide between them was palpable. Erin spoke softly.
“No.”
“Interesting. But you’re aware.”
She was in Baleros, but the [Innkeeper] had not weighed in on events in Izril at all, even the Goblin King. Luciva’s eyes narrowed further, to slits.
“Do you know what occurred to bring the Goblin King into existence? Was that the genuine article?”
“Yep. And yep.”
“Is that your doing? What a ridiculous question.”
This was a chance to get all the answers she wanted. Erin peered at Luciva thoughtfully.
“You’re sort of like what I expected. But not. You’re…honest. More honest that you’re a killing machine. I thought you’d be different from what Rafaema said of you. Or Lulv.”
Luciva hesitated. She hated sitting in a room with someone with high-level soft power Skills. Nerul always rattled her a bit. Nevertheless, she continued.
“I will take your lack of replies on any questions as partial confirmations. Do you know Rafaema well?”
“Not well. But I do know she’s a Dragon.”
That child. Luciva nearly shot from her chair, and then she wondered if she did need to kill Erin. But the [Innkeeper] was just watching the Dragonspeaker.
“Do you think I want her dead?”
“N-no.”
The word came out of Luciva by accident, and she cursed, realizing that the truth in this place really couldn’t be beaten. She added swiftly.
“But you are a liability. My job is to minimize risk to the City of War. Right now, you are one of Izril’s greatest liabilities in many senses. Your level is too high. Everything you touch seems to turn to chaos. That [Baker] is an example. I have to kill him.”
The [Innkeeper] exhaled. Softly.
“You don’t have to.”
“I have said it here, Erin Solstice. There is no feasible option where letting him go is preferable.”
The [Innkeeper]’s aura pushed forwards suddenly, and Luciva’s chair moved back. She focused, and the air stopped pressing against her. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes were blazing.
“There is if you consider the fact that he’s not an agent of the Hives. There is if you realize he doesn’t want war. He’s not a warrior. He’s not a [Strategist]. He’s a [Baker]. Kill him and you’ll get your war faster. He just wants to feed people.”
The Dragonspeaker thought. She tapped one claw on the table, thinking, assessing. Such a valuable place this Skill was. She wondered how long she could engage the [Innkeeper] in conversation.
She had to do the interview, but since this apparently let her split focus…they had so much to discuss.
“Since I can believe that…no, I don’t quite buy it. Say he’s truly independent. This wasn’t a Queen-mandated action?”
“No. Garry did it himself.”
Luciva nodded.
“Then he’s still an asset. A high-level [Baker] will contribute to the Hive in a material aspect.”
This time, Erin exhaled and sat up.
“Wow, I’m having a really crummy day, and you—you’re not making it better. I thought I knew the most stubborn idiot in the world, but you’re just a helmet on a stick. No, Luciva. I mean, even if there’s a war, Garry doesn’t want it. He’s not ‘an asset’. I think that if he disagrees with the Free Queen going to war, he won’t help her. He’ll just leave. That’s what’s happening in Liscor, you stupid idiots. The Antinium aren’t just levelling and becoming independent. They’re choosing. They might choose not to go to war!”
Luciva blinked. If it were anywhere else…instantly, her mind began racing.
We could see a civil war. Too risky if they still take the Hives’ side, but true insubordination in the ranks? Invaluable. Unless Erin could be lying by ignorance? She leaned back in her chair.
“Fine. That moves the needle slightly towards the [Baker] being less dangerous. It still damages too much.”
“Feeding people does?”
“Reputation. Drake ideals of safety. The authority of the Walled Cities. Even if I wanted to, they’re already shooting at him, and that is without my orders.”
“—They are?”
She didn’t know? Maybe she was stuck in here. That gap in Erin’s weaknesses closed, and her mouth firmed.
“You can halt it. Luciva, do you hate the idea of him feeding starving people?”
The Dragonspeaker hesitated. Then ground out an answer.
“No. If he weren’t Antinium, I’d allow it. Even Humans. But he is Antinium. I can’t be certain. I cannot, will not allow it.”
Erin Solstice sighed. Then smiled brightly at Luciva, as if she were a stupid cadet in her first year of class at Manus’ academies.
“Okay, Luciva. Listen very closely to me. I have spoken to Garry in this place. I know his delivery is not poisoned, not trickery, not anything but genuine goodness from the depths of his soul. An act of someone who is so innocent, so genuine and caring that you or I will never walk under the same sky that he shines under. He will harm no one. He only wants to feed people who are hungry. He went because no one—not you, not I—no one in this world cared about that Drake village or the people he wants to help. Understand that. Do you understand that?”
She leaned over the table, and Luciva Skybreath didn’t glance away or flinch.
“I understand. I believe you, and I know you’re telling me the truth here. It is commendable, then, what this [Baker] is doing. I wish he weren’t Antinium. His life would be easier. However, my decision cannot change for that alone.”
If your inn becomes an enemy, perhaps that’s my calculus. But you were Chaldion’s asset, or he treated you like one. Make me an offer. The [General] was prepared to play hard with all the information she had on Erin’s inn and its guests, and she knew enough about the [Princess] and other facets.
But the [Innkeeper] just stared into Luciva’s eyes. Then she rose and smiled. It was not a nice smile. It was weary, frustrated, furious, but she cloaked it all behind the curve of her lips.
“You’re a dangerous person, but an honest one. Like a swinging sword, I guess.”
“I use a spear. Why?”
Luciva got up warily. She didn’t know why, only felt like something was wrong. But the [Innkeeper] just walked over to the railing and leaned over it.
“A stabbing spear, then. But I think even Relc is more tricky than you. Who knows? You don’t scare me in the way other people do, Luciva. Nerrhavia, the dead gods, Yazdil, Thatalocian, all of them I can’t fully predict. When you come, you’re just a straight line, and that’s…not scary. Don’t kill Garry or I will remember it, and we will war, Luciva.”
She looked back, and the Dragonspeaker braced. That was a threat, but if Manus bowed to any individual…it had before. It would not do so, except to Dragons. She strode forwards, focused on the important parts.
“Nerrhavia. Is she alive? Is she alive? Answer me! What are these…‘dead gods’? What did Wall Lord Aldonss face! Give me intelligence on the threat!”
She shook Erin’s shoulder roughly, and the [Innkeeper] whispered.
“I really should. But you’re threatening to kill my little [Baker]. And sometimes? Sometimes I’m not so nice as he is. I’d damn a Walled City for him. No, not really. But for a second, I can say that. For a second—I believe it.”
“General Sserys told me these dead gods cannot be killed. Do you have any weapons? What are your intentions?”
She shook Erin again, and the [Innkeeper] rattled about, but she was grinning at Luciva. Erin Solstice spoke.
“My intentions? My intention was to tell you the truth about Garry, Luciva. Just the truth and nothing but the truth. I’m an enemy of the dead gods, and we need the weapons of the Elves and Gnomes in the deepest dungeons they left. Relics. But right now, you and I are at war over Garry.”
“Damn the [Baker]! You can’t change my mind, so just talk to—”
Erin Solstice was dissolving. What was going on? The door was opening in the distance, and the [Innkeeper] spoke, and then Luciva felt that sensation crawling up her spine.
Ambush.
“Enjoy your interview, Dragonspeaker.”
Then Dragonspeaker Luciva—
 
——
 
—stopped for a moment as Drassi finished introducing everyone to their segment. Luciva’s eyes opened wide, and the staff around her thought she seemed rattled.
Very rattled, but Drassi hadn’t done anything. She was smiling, though, sitting as if she knew something.
“Ah, Dragonspeaker. I think that’s my cue. So, I know you’re going to tell me about the Antinium threat, but I have just one question I think we should lay out before our audience, right here, right now.”
Luciva’s claws drummed on the armrest of her chair, and the [Strategist] started. But she knew what to say! He glanced around, then dashed to the side. The claws kept drumming.
“Which is, Reporter…?”
Luciva wore an expression like someone ready to be stabbed. Drassi leaned forwards and fixed Luciva with a focused gaze.
“To your knowledge as head of the City of War, is Garry the Baker in any way a threat? Honestly and truthfully, Dragonspeaker. No lies nor evading the truth. Yes or no. Because I think you know the answer.”
Well, that was easy. Just say ‘yes’. The [Strategist] was staring at Luciva. She didn’t conclusively…he saw her claws drumming, and then he realized something was wrong.
“Cut the broadcast. Cut the—”
Too late. Luciva hated soft power. She hated it with every fiber of her being. The Dragonspeaker sighed as she was walked into the check that Erin had put her into.
“…Like a Level 2 [Soldier] up against Plains Gnolls.”
“What was that, Dragonspeaker? Yes or no. Surely, it’s an easy question. Surely, anything but that would be omission, and we’re plain-speaking women, right?”
Drassi was smiling. She was almost dancing with joy, because a friend had found her and given her the chance of a lifetime. Dragonspeaker Luciva sat upright, and her eyes found the cameras fixed on her. She gazed dead into the cameras.
“As everything I say here is being authenticated by Reporter Drassi, please understand that I am being truthful. I dislike lying. Therefore, I would like to make a public statement. It has been known to Manus for quite some time that [Detect Truth] spells can be falsified. Especially by underworld classes or those with high-level Skills. It is possible to lie under the effects of the spell, especially for the rich or powerful. Higher-level Skills are far better able to detect truth, but we have no perfect guarantee of integrity, even in the City of War.”
Perhaps it was a check, but Luciva played enough chess to know that you didn’t always have to move the king out of check. Drassi’s eyes opened wide, and there was a choking noise in the background.
Cut the broadcast. If Manus couldn’t do it, then Wistram—? Drassi’s eyes flashed and she lifted a hand.
“[Keep Those Cameras Rolling], folks. No one takes me off air.”
Ah, and there it was. Luciva smiled despite her pounding heart. She wondered what level Miss Drassi was and whether someone would try to assassinate her—again. And then there was no time to stop the broadcast. It hit the 5-minute delay, and everyone saw it.
Across the world, rulers and individuals sat up as the Dragonspeaker unloaded a Tier 7 spell of her own into the public mindset. The Blighted King began cursing the Dragonspeaker out, and Drassi Tewing sat there, genuinely lost for words for a second. Then she lifted a claw.
“Okay. Breaking news, everyone. We’ll dive into that just in a second, but Dragonspeaker, you didn’t answer my question.”
Luciva sat back in her chair.
“No, I did not.”
She gritted her teeth and prepared for an ugly engagement as the [Reporter] came in for another assault. That was all the [Innkeeper] could do for her beloved [Baker]. And he appreciated it, even if he had not asked for this or Magnolia’s help or anyone else’s.
It was, Garry knew…lovely.
But meaningless.
 
——
 
His shoulder kept hurting. He suspected the arrow was poisoned, so, to cheer himself up, he ate another piece of Scaethen Bread. He wished it made him really tough, but stopping an arrow? He’d take it.
It was a long-ranged shot anyways. The Drakes did fear him. As if he’d explode or charge them and kill them all. Reputation alone had them so scared they fired at long-range, missed.
Thunk. The tip of the arrow went through the side of the wagon.
“Close enough.”
That was all he said as the second rain of arrows fell. This time, Garry had seen the [Riders] coming down the road and leapt into the back. They fired two showers at him, wheeled their horses, then fled.
Most of the arrows hit the wagon, the bread, or glanced off his back-shell. Most. He got up slowly, and someone appeared in front of him.
Garry! You’re shot!
“I thought I told Lyonette not to let you watch. I am aware, Mrsha.”
Two arrows were sticking out of his backshell. Garry reached for them, then discovered a problem.
“Ah.”
He couldn’t reach behind his back. Unlike other species, his arms wouldn’t articulate backwards. The [Baker] tried to snap the arrows off and pull them out with the back of the wagon or fashion a claw to yank, but they were stuck in hard, and they began to hurt when he did.
So, after ten minutes, he just sat there, and they itched. Lyonette came back to urge him to stop, and he knew there was debate, this was being televised, and maybe that stopped some.
“I know.”
The second town was half a day’s journey away, and he had set out at dawn. How much further? The ride was no longer as comfortable, and Garry…
Drassi appeared after a while.
“Garry! You’ve been shot.”
“I am aware, Miss Drassi. Forgive my bad mood.”
“Nothing to forgive. I just—I just spoke with Dragonspeaker Luciva, who did not say you were a threat to Drakes. She refused to say you were not, but I think for any viewer with a brain, that said a lot. But you are being attacked.”
“I know. It is upsetting. I am here to deliver bread, Drassi. I wish to feed people.”
Definitely poisoned arrows. He felt a bit hot, but Antinium were tough. He was tough enough, he supposed. Drassi turned to some camera.
“Under truth Skills, which I believe in, that’s accurate. Garry, tell me. Why did you come by yourself? You could have gotten someone else to do this. Another Drake, a Gnoll. Even a Human.”
“Oh, yes. I could have gotten a Human. As Drakes are very welcoming to other species. Like Architect Hexel or Erin. Or Gnolls.”
Drassi paused for a long moment, and Garry added as he adjusted his red hat.
“I apologize again. My back hurts. Is it bleeding?”
“Only—only a little bit. But you know what I mean, Garry. Why an Antinium?”
It was the question, wasn’t it? Garry thought he saw movement ahead around a bend in the road. He spoke louder.
“Because I am an Antinium, Drassi. I could send someone and say it was not me who baked the bread. That it was from Liscor. Or just somewhere else, and it would have gone, and it would have been easy.”
She nodded, confused.
“Then why didn’t you?”
He turned to gaze at her, and now the Antinium’s eyes no longer sparkled. His mandibles were lowered in an expression everyone realized, instinctively, was a frown.
“Because, Drassi, it is not true. Because the truth is that an Antinium made this bread. I made this bread. Even if not every loaf, it is my doing. It is my bakery, my work that made bread that I wished to give to hungry people. I will not deliver a lie.”
There was something at the end of the pass. He and Drassi both saw a group poke their heads out, draw back. Not [Soldiers]. Drassi murmured.
“Adventurers. Hey, you’re on television!”
Garry kept staring at her. He went on, voice rasping.
“I made this bread, and I am an Antinium who does not want war. We are not all monsters. If this truth makes it harder to go to war again, then it is worth telling.”
“Even if it results in you getting shot? Garry, we all can see the danger you’re in. Is this worth it?”
“Yes.”
They were speaking as if they couldn’t hear the voices from around the bend. Drassi’s eyes were locked on his, and she gave him a frustrated expression. Her tail curled up.
“Garry, I know I shouldn’t critique you, not right now, but—this isn’t optimal. You have an ego.”
If she expected him to be angry or defensive? Garry’s head rose, and he cast around. The bread wasn’t going to stop a sword. Maybe he should have made Erin’s Shadowloaves after all. But it had to be public. Had to be—he was tensed, hunched over, but he relaxed and glanced at Drassi. Just once.
“Yes, please. I do have an ego. It was how I decided I mattered.”
Then he faced ahead and raised his voice.
“I am here to feed starving people. If you have a problem with that—show me.”
Drassi swung around and grabbed a Gnoll [Cameraperson] and dragged him into view next to Garry.
“You’re on television! We’re recording all of this!”
That made Garry smile, and he leaned over and patted her on the imaginary shoulder.
“They are very lovely words to say, Drassi. As if they mean something. I hope they work, but in the end—this is the truth.”
He nodded ahead as the Silver-rank team of Drakes broke around the bend, riding at him. The [Baker] sighed.
 
——
 
He didn’t fight back. That was the outrageous thing. Instead, he just checked his red hat and white beard, like they were armor, and held up his four arms, shielding himself with—loaves of bread. That was all. He didn’t move, just swivelled as the first saber slashed across his chest.
And that was how children learned that Santa’s blood was green. The first pass by the Silver-rank adventurers was bad. Perhaps they weren’t used to mounted combat, but knowing they were being watched also added to their nerves. They avoided Drassi, as if she was real, trying to hide their features from her. But one still slashed a saber across Garry’s chest and arm, and another hit him with fire.
The bread caught some of the fireblast, and he patted at the wagon’s seats as the horses cried out and began to gallop. But then he just set himself. Waiting.
Fight back! The Silver-rankers swung their horses around, ignoring Drassi, who was running after them.
“Get a shot of their faces! Why are you doing this? Stop! Stop, he’s unarmed!”
“Tough bastard. Spears!”
One of the Silver-rankers yanked a long spear up, shaking out his sword-hand. He’d cut as hard as he could, but the Antinium’s shell…they rode down the pass.
This time, three spears hit Garry, and he rocked as they cracked his back-shell, but one was aiming for the horses trying to gallop. Garry saw it, and as they swung the spear down, his lower left arm shot out. He grabbed the spear and nearly took the Silver-ranker off the horse.
“Ancest—”
They let go before they were literally carried off the saddle, and the spear fell as Garry dropped it. Now, he was swivelling as lightning played off his armor.
“What. Are. You. Doing? They’re just…horses.”
Third pass. He was bleeding. One of the Silver-rankers snapped.
“Just get the arms down and I’ll use [Power Strike] on his head. Hurry up!”
Their horses were getting spooked by the blood and shouting; they weren’t trained animals. Six Silver-rankers, forming a wedge, began to ride at the motionless Antinium.
Was there any hesitation when they saw he would not move, even now? Or were they just in too deep, committed? A shout burst from the six Silver-rankers as they galloped.
Thundering hooves. King Allorev scooped his son up and handed him to his older sister. Now, people were writing into the television networks, thousands of [Messages] and letters. As if it had the power to stop anything.
They weren’t there. The illusory [Princess] did nothing even when she spoke with the voice of royalty. Too weak, too low-level. No spells to throw across the world. No grand Skills.
Not for a [Baker] and a delivery of bread. The galloping horses rode down the pass, two frantic animals tethered to the wagon. Seven riders.
One of the Silver-rankers locked on Garry noticed something despite the tunnel-vision. She gazed up and cried out.
“What’s that?”
The lead rider aiming the [Power Strike] at the Antinium jerked the spear up. He blanched, cursed, and aimed the spear straight. But it was still—too short.
The twelve-foot long lance struck the Silver-rank adventurer and carried the figure out of the saddle. Then the shield swung around as the armored [Knight] passed by another adventurer. The blow clipped the Drake, who swung their spear, shouting in panic. But the weapon just bounced harmlessly off Ser Solton’s armor.
The Knight of Haegris passed by the Drakes, scattering them as his warhorse bit, and he shouted, swinging the shield and lance. Then he was raising his lance, coming around. Garry stared as his head came up.
“You?”
“Back! Back! In the name of the Order of Haegris, I challenge you ruffians! Oh, hullo, Master Garry. Fancy meeting you here.”
The man winked through his visor. His potbellied armor clanged as an arrow rang off it, but he was in full plate, and his horse was barded too.
Possibly, the Drakes had never seen a [Knight] in the south. Garry glared at Ser Solton even as his heart leapt.
“I told you, if it wastes your time—”
Ser Solton’s lance lowered. And his voice was suddenly precise. No longer the jovial [Knight of Trades and Fair Deals], but a [Knight] upon a crusade. The only kind that the Order of Haegris respected.
“I know. But it goes against my chivalry to let a good man die as well. I don’t know if I can best this lot, sir. I’ll try. Turn back, I pray you.”
“I cannot.”
“Then neither can I. Order of Haegris, witness me!”
Ser Solton raised his shield overhead. Then he struck it with the butt of his lance, and a yellow caterpillar fuzz of lightning stole over his shield. It ran down the length of his enchanted lance, and he began to canter. Then gallop at the Silver-rank adventurers spreading out and shouting.
 
——
 
A lone [Knight] charging, outnumbered.
Defending a wagon of bread.
Far from home. In his silly potbelly armor, no less. Who could cheer that?
Well, aside from the Prince of Shade, the audience of millions—how about the Order of Haegris? They were on their feet in their gentle keep with its outdoor market and standing on the banquet tables, pounding and shouting Ser Solton’s name.
“Grandmaster! We must launch a crusade to Izril’s shores! We are needed there!”
[Knights] were petitioning their Grandmaster, alight with the reflection of Ser Solton’s valor. The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Haegris, a woman, paused.
“You mean a second crusade, [Knight]? Squire Cathenay is receiving our first reinforcements in First Landing now. I may allow it. Now, silence! Our brother is fighting.”
The wheeling [Knight] galloped and turned, raising the lance everyone knew he hated overhead. And the Antinium—one of the [Knights] murmured.
“He would make a fine Knight of Haegris. But he is too mad, even for chivalry’s pride.”
The [Baker] was continuing. Smiling, as if that one [Knight]’s charge had saved something precious in the world he had begun to doubt.
But he—the Order of Haegris cheered Ser Solton as he rode, harrying the scattering Silver-rank adventurers despite his dented armor and the arrows sticking out of his pauldrons.
Then they went silent. For there was a line between bravery and madness. And still—
The Antinium kept going.
 
——
 
He told them not to help him, and they did. The [Baker] was grateful, but—he was not counting his miracles. Just waiting.
He was still not at the town, but another hour—another hour and he’d be there. The wagon was heading uphill now, and the frightened, exhausted horses were flagging. He’d fed them more bread and stamina potions, pushing the wagon uphill, when they found him again.
Not Silver-rankers this time. [Soldiers].
Just twelve. They came off the back of a Wyvern. Only one. The Wyvern took to the air, screaming, and the horses panicked. Garry cursed as the wagon swerved.
“No. No. Stop—”
They were splitting in either direction, then pulling right. They were going to pull the wagon, and it would crush the silly animals from sheer momentum, lashed to it as they were! He had no choice. Garry grabbed a belt-knife and slashed one’s reins. The other was fighting. He felt the wagon turning—and a Drake cut the reins on the other side. The horse tore free as the wagon halted, held in place.
“Thank you—”
The sword stabbed into Garry’s stomach and twisted. The Drake grunted as the blade snapped, the tip breaking in Garry’s shell, the rest shattering.
Another flash along his back. Garry looked down, and a sword was in his side. His arms holding the wagon steady trembled. The Drakes backed away.
“It’s just bread—”
The wagon began moving. He tried to grab it, and it dragged him downhill. The [Soldiers] gave chase with shouts. Garry was being pulled across the ground and—
Screeching overhead. The Wyvern and its rider were following him as the wagon rolled down the hill, hit a stone, and stopped. Garry lay on his back as the giant Wyvern’s shadow passed overhead.
It shrieked a third time, a voice of terror, and the [Soldiers] stopped. Waiting.
The shadow passed overhead again and then turned. Garry waited, then heard a shout.
“Antinium! Antinium—”
“Yes, me. Am I so scary? Please, just let me—”
He sat up slowly, and he was bleeding. He had…no healing potions. But he did have bandages and some of the Antinium’s healing gel. Then Garry saw her.
She wasn’t really there. If you looked closely, her image flickered a bit. A hologram, though no one knew that word. But a Wyvern should have been able to tell she was fake as she had no shadow.
But Bird was a good [Liar]. The archer stood there, bow lowered, an arrow placed to it. Her eyes followed the Wyvern, and it turned. It fled, ignoring its [Rider], fleeing the Antinium that looked like utter death to its eyes.
“Bird?”
“I…would offer you a hand up, Garry. But I am muchly afraid I cannot. Please stop.”
Liquid was dripping from Bird’s eyes, and once again, Garry envied her. Slowly, he got up. Her face flickered as an arrow passed through her head. The [Soldiers] were still here, and they knew she was fake.
“Not yet. I have to know.”
Bird turned, then vanished. Garry limped over to the wagon. The [Soldiers] advanced silently, surrounding him. He rasped at them as he felt at his side and gazed at the green blood coating his hand.
“There’s no point to this. Look. The food’s fallen on the ground.”
He bent over to pick up a loaf of bread, and one of them stabbed him as he bent over. The rest rushed forwards, swinging, as if afraid to attack him while he was watching. And the [Baker] wondered, as he covered his head—
Is this it?
Would they stop?
“Are you—blind?”
Did they even hear him? The pain kept growing until he heard a scream. A buzzing and then shouting. The stabbing into his back shell stopped, and Garry heard more.
The sound of wings. His head rose, and Pisca took one of the [Soldiers] off their feet, biting, clawing.
“Stop! Stop!”
He shouted as Flying Antinium descended, swarming the [Soldiers]. Antinium and Drake blood stained the road, and Garry rose, despite the blood, and shoved Runel off a screaming [Soldier].
“Let them go!”
The Flying Antinium buzzed backwards. Some of them had lost limbs. Pisca had a terrible slash across her face. The [Soldiers] ran. Garry saw the Wyvern land, shrieking, and he spread his arms.
“What are you doing?”
“Zaving you. Can’t die. Not you.”
Runel whispered. Garry stared up at the sky.
“Go. Fly back to Liscor. Hurry. You cannot do this.”
Now, he was afraid. Now, he knew that war, true conflict might be hanging on the edge. But they were more concerned with him, producing bandages, the gel—he grabbed Pisca and wound a bandage around her face.
“Pisca. You cannot protect me. You must go back.”
“No. Come with. Pleaze.”
She tried to cover him with her wings. The others buzzed around him, but Garry pushed at them. Pointed. He spoke.
“I cannot let you get hurt. Not for me.”
“Why? Why keep going? Makes no zense.”
They protested, and Garry pointed up the hill. They had gotten the wagon free, replaced the wheel, and he had stopped…bleeding. Another miracle. He was getting tired of them.
“I have to know how far they will go. If there is ever a chance I will deliver that bread to the hungry Drakes, it cannot be with one-time miracles and by scaring them, by hurting them, Pisca. This is not…once. This is all part of my plan. It may be a stupid, foolish, naïve plan. But I will believe in it. Please, go home. If I am wrong, do not make my mistake. But—”
He hugged them, each and every one.
“I do not think I am wrong. No matter what, I will not attack them. That means something. Look: they’re watching.”
He pointed up at the sky. The Flying Antinium stared upwards, then gathered around him.
“Pleaze…”
The horses were gone. Garry pushed the wagon until it was facing up the hill and began to shove. To the Flying Antinium’s surprise, it moved. Garry kept shoving, and it moved. Step by step…the Flying Antinium began to shove with him, but he turned.
“Go, please. I’ll be back soon.”
They stood there watching him push, ascending the tough hill step by step. It was heavier than anything Garry had pushed, but he was used to working.
Whatever they decided…they buzzed off. Garry was shoving, trying to get more purchase, when he heard frightened whinnying. He glanced up, and two horses came galloping back. Pisca buzzed back.
“Not ztupid. At least you go not ztupid.”
Garry gazed down at the wagon, his trembling arms, and then relaxed.
“Okay, not stupid. This is true.”
 
——
 
He pushed to the top of the hill and the Flying Antinium were already gone, having turned into specks on the horizon. Pushing with the tired horses.
“What…kind…of Drakes live this high up?”
Garry was questioning their life choices. But a man answered him as he sat, bandaging his own shoulder.
“As I understand it, ones who farm high-altitude magical crops and collect from animals and monsters here. Profitable. But if a field goes fallow or takes on blight…their [Farmer] died. He was ninety years old. He fed most of them.”
“Oh.”
Ser Solton was wounded. But he replaced his armor, rose, and pointed ahead.
“Garry. There’s a bridge just ahead of us crossing a chasm. But there are also fifty Drakes.”
He was looking at Garry. Just looking, and the [Baker] stopped riding the wagon. Walked over to put his hand on Solton’s shoulders.
“The trouble with miracles, Ser Solton, is that they run out. I am from The Wandering Inn. I have seen it happen. I did not come searching for them. I am grateful, but you must understand this. You are young.”
The [Knight] with grey hair, in his forties, met the eyes of a two year-old Antinium, and his face crumpled up a bit. He didn’t ask Garry to turn back. Or if he was certain.
He finally understood. Solton took in a shaky breath, then another.
“Then—ach, damn visors. How is a man to fight with tears in his eyes? What does one do in the face of such certainties? When you don’t even believe in miracles, man? What is there to hope for?”
Garry could see the Drakes now. Waiting silently in front of the wide bridge over a ravine. The only route to the town of Aethdell’s Summit. Right. Summit. It really should have clued him in. He hadn’t read those maps right. He was a silly, young bug. But he smiled at Ser Solton.
“When you run out of miracles? You just hope, Solton. One step at a time. The world can be better.”
The visor clicked downwards, and Solton replied softly.
“By blood or coin or deed, let it be so.”
“All I can do is bake bread.”
 
——
 
The silent Drakes moved apart, slightly, as the [Knight] rode down on them. His lance wasn’t lowered. Not against so many. He had a hand on one sword.
“Make way. Make way! We are delivering bread to the starving! If you have a conscience, for the love of family, for the love of decency, please—make way!”
The wagon was rumbling down the slope faster and faster as the horses whinnied nervously. They did not like the chasm, but Garry had fed them the nice bread. Despite their fear, despite their nerves, they glanced at him, and perhaps…
They moved faster. Once they were on the bridge, the Drakes wouldn’t be able to swarm. Garry was sitting forwards in the driver’s seat, braced. He hurt all over. His stab-wounds were patched, but he was so tired.
“This time…”
The silent Drakes were just watching him. Slitted eyes unblinking. Garry could have said a lot of things.
I have met a Dragon. My [Innkeeper] has bested a god. Boastful things, true things, things he believed in, perhaps even things to make them stop or change their minds.
But this should have been all it took. Garry held a loaf of bread with two of his hands as the other two held the reins. He saw the first rank of Drakes shift aside as the wagon rumbled past the [Knight]. Then, Ser Solton sighed.
“Sirs, madams. Have you no hearts?”
They drew blades, and Ser Solton’s warhorse reared.
“Garry!”
The swords slashed at Garry. Spears knocked him back in the driver’s seat, and the horses screamed. They ran forwards, and the press of bodies kept Solton from Garry. Forced the [Knight] back as he slashed, shouting.
“Stop. Stop—”
Garry was yelling, and the press of bodies was about him, attacking, before, suddenly, they drew back. All at once. He was shielding his face, glancing around as they rode onto the bridge, and above him—
All the [Scrying] spells abruptly cut out. Garry’s anti-appraisal ring buzzed, and he heard only the clip-clop of hooves. He turned, and the Drakes were backing up from the bridge.
The [Baker] rode forwards for another second. Then ten. He stared behind him as Solton shouted, a distant voice, and then the Antinium peered up. His eyes found the orange glow, the falling pinpoints of light.
“Truly?”
The pair of [Fireballs] shot down from the sky. He saw them touch the other end of the long bridge, then felt a ripple under the wagon wheels. The bridge rolled downwards into the chasm, and Garry reached out.
The horses halted as the bridge dropped. Garry grabbed for them.
“I’m sorry—”
Then he knew.
The wagon fell as the bread, the Chest of Holding, the horses, and the [Baker] dropped. Down, down, down. 
Leaving his hopes behind. The wrath of Drakes. The chance to do some good in the world.
Down.
Down.
Down.
To a place where there was only pain. The ground.
And his [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
She was crying when he woke up. The Antinium’s right arm was broken. Blood was running from his shell. His legs—all his bandaged wounds had torn open again.
 
He sat in the gazebo, at the table, as she leaned against the benches, tears falling from her eyes and gazing into infinity.
 
He awoke at the bottom of the chasm, lying on squashed bread. Amidst his own blood, next to the two dead horses.
The Antinium got up after crying out in pain. He hunted around for bandages. Anything. Gave up; there was only blood and destruction. Nothing left. He stared up, but the light was so faint down here. Just a wall of stone and…he gazed at his hands.
Then he walked over to the jagged stone and put his three good arms to the stone. Pulled and felt slight pain in his fingertips from the hard stone. He pulled up again. Digging his fingers into the rock.
He began to climb.
 
The [Innkeeper] noticed he was awake, and she gazed at the green blood dripping from his side. His back. Every wound on him. From swords. Spears. The arrows still sticking out of his back, snapped off.
She had seen each and every one. The [Baker] did not ask how he had come to be here.
He had been here from the beginning. Night and day. 
 
He fell. Misjudged a hold and slipped, and he went crashing back down. Landed on his back-shell, and the agony nearly made him pass out again.
 
More blood. It ran down, and it had stained the gazebo’s floor. Even run into the nothingness around them. Green and bright. Nothing like the red of her blood.
He had seen her after she had died. He had missed that too.
Now…she sat there.
 
The Antinium began to climb again. This time, he tried to judge each hold. Secured himself so that even if one hold gave way, the other two would cling on. But every time his grip slipped, his fingers cut into the rocks.
And his carapace was not invincible. He was digging his fingers into tiny cracks, forcing his unmalleable digits into crevasses to hold himself up by sheer friction.
 
Blood began to drip from cracked fingers. Garry gazed down at his hands, then up at her. The [Innkeeper] rasped into the darkness as she watched his blood drip onto the floor.
“They have done nothing for us. Nothing, and we try again and again to make this world better. To show them it matters. To give just one thing, and all they do is take it away. They don’t deserve anything.”
Her eyes were filled with hazel and hate. Helplessness. 
She pointed a hand that shook at him.
“We try. Even after all of it, because it matters. Until we can’t remember why we cared so much. Until it doesn’t seem to matter. The world stops shining so brightly. Why do we do it? For them? Why do they deserve it?”
 
—Fell, again, as an entire section of stone gave way. Bad stone. The Antinium lay there, knowing it was loose from rain and erosion. The entire cliff face might give way and bury him.
He got up.
This time, his fingers dug into the stone despite the pain. He pressed with all the strength he had. Whispering.
“[Hands of Steel]. [Enhanced Grip].”
The strength to knead dough. He pulled himself up, arms burning. Clinging to the rocks. Whispering.
“They killed the horses. Why did they have to kill the horses?”
It hurt. He never should have brought them.
His fault.
 
More blood. But it was slowing from everywhere but his fingers. The Worker gazed down at the empty chess table dripping with blood. Then his head rose.
“You don’t even know them.”
He spoke to the [Innkeeper], and she blinked. Erin looked at him, and Garry’s head rose. To the sky he could not see here. He whispered.
“They don’t even know they can climb. We do.”
 
—Half an hour? He didn’t know. He slipped as a rock tore loose, and he heard it fall. Far—he drove his left hand deeper into the stone, desperate, and clung there. Panting.
Garry peered up, and he still couldn’t see the sky. He was feeling for another handhold, swinging back and forth, his stomach shaking, when something ran onto his head.
Water. He opened his mandibles skywards, then stuck his foot into a crack in the wall.
He could not fall.
 
“I believe this is it, Erin. I do not know. But I think…”
He held her as she hugged him and refused to let go. But the [Baker] was smiling.
“I hope I win, even if I lose.”
“I’d trade them all for you. Open my door when you see it. Please. Please don’t leave me alone.”
She wasn’t shaking. Just weeping, as if—no. They’d broken her heart before. The [Baker] smiled as his hands stung and bled.
“I promise.”
Then he stepped through the door and—
 
—Remembered. The [Baker] stopped, panting, and he was no stronger. No happier, not as it rained on him, cold water pouring down the stones occasionally falling by his head. But he forced one arm up. Gripped a stone until it cracked, then dug his fingers into the cliff face harder.
Up. Up.
“Remind her. I made a promise. I—”
He’d made another promise. Garry stared down for a moment, as long as his limited head movement would allow.
“Why the horses?”
His arms were in agony. He was searching for somewhere, anywhere, he could just…rest. Anywhere he could cling to to regain some strength.
“Please…”
Then he did see it. An actual ledge of stone that had not given way. A flat surface fifty-some feet away from him. Only, it was already occupied. Something had come tumbling down, and by luck, fate, it had smashed onto the little ledge and tangled there, the remnants of the reins anchoring it in place.
The Chest of Holding.
Garry stared at it as the rain let up, and his trembling fingers kept bleeding. He regarded the wet box and tried to calculate how heavy it was. Looked up and still could not see the cliff’s edge. The [Baker] took a trembling breath.
“…gOod.”
 
——
 
He lashed the Chest of Holding to the only place he could tie it to and know it wouldn’t slip off given the slippery leather and his crude knots: his legs.
They weren’t much good anyways. His stumpy feet couldn’t articulate or wedge themselves into gaps like a Human or other species. Flesh was malleable. Chitin, not.
So he pulled with his arms. One handhold higher. Then another.
His mind was going white, wanting to lift him up into a place that felt like Pawn’s Heaven. But every time he felt it, he dragged himself down into the cliff and forced his arms to rise.
“Not there. No matter how beautiful it is, I will not go. I’m not—”
He drove a fist into the stone as he slipped again. Pulled.
Up.
“I’m not needed there.”
Then he stopped talking. Drove a hand higher and pulled himself up one more foot.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHH—”
He screamed skywards, and there was only one thing that heard him. Who climbed with him, broken and bloody fingers fighting for every inch, until he hauled himself onto the ground and dragged the Chest of Holding up.
The watcher saw the harness slip as the chest came over the edge of the cliff and felt Garry’s heart stop in his chest with him. Only it knew that if it had fallen, the [Chef] would have jumped back down after it.
The [Innkeeper] would have believed. But the Worker started walking. He dragged the Chest of Holding with him up the circular path that went slowly higher around a simple town with silent walls, echoing with hunger, built with millenia-old stone bridges crisscrossing into higher plateaus.
Places where aeons ago, Drakes had built higher alongside Giants and Dragons and under the wings of a vast empire of Harpies.
No more. The Worker dragged the battered Chest of Holding up past the ringing gongs and through the old magical iron gates of the town that had heard he had been coming. They had been watching him.
Expecting him. But not after their bridge broke.
Now, they encircled him, a sea of staring Drakes, hunger eating them alive, as he finally stopped. They held hunting spears, throwing javelins, and a Drake riding a pony was whirling a sling and net, but the Antinium didn’t pay attention to the weapons.
Slowly, he sat down, bowing his head, as dried Antinium blood flaked off onto the street. He let go of the Chest of Holding.
Then, the voice was allowed to whisper to him.
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 44!]
[Skill – Supreme Baking: Bread Mastery obtained!]
[Recipe: Shadowloaf Obtained!]
[Recipe: Loaf of Luck Obtained!]
[Recipe: Stitch-bread Obtained!]
[Recipe: Dragonpan Toast Obtained!]
[Recipe: Kraken Biscuit Obtained!]
[Skill Change – Vehicle: Fast Travelling → Vehicle: Magical Delivery!]
[Skill – Vehicle: Magical Delivery Obtained!]
[Skill – Moment of Protection Obtained!]
[Bound Item – Bag of Vast Holding Assigned!]
 
[Class Change: Tactician → Strategist of Sympathy!]
[Strategist of Sympathy Level 18!]
[Skill – Unpredictable Move Obtained!]
[Skill – Mitigate Harm Obtained!]
[Skill – Safe Retreat Obtained!]
 
——
 
This was his little plan.
Drassi Tewing had covered the broken bridge. Demanded answers of…anyone. Speculated as much as she was allowed.
But Ser Solton had only seen the [Fireball] falling, not who had sent the spells, and the wounded [Knight] had pursued the Drakes, who claimed not to have known what had happened either. It could have been any magic-user capable of long-ranged magical spells. Any Walled City of Incantations. There was no proof.
Garry…
She was sitting in front of her desk, staring at not-really-anything on live television.
The [Baker] was gone.
What had changed? Channel 1 was silent too as the two Drake [Commentators] hunted for some aphorism or statement that would make this feel less…pointless.
There was a commotion at the doors of her studio. The security guards tried, and they had plurality and levels on their side, but not against him.
The tall Rabbit-man literally shoved a huge Dullahan aside, shouting.
“Courier on delivery! This is a priority request! Sorry, Drassi—I’ve got something for you.”
“Hawk? I’m on air. Go away. Garry’s dead.”
Drassi wiped at her eyes, and Hawk stopped. He gazed at her with a guilty expression on his face and nodded.
“I know. This is a…deadman’s delivery. First time I’ve done one. In the event of his demise this week, my job was to, uh—give this to you. Here. I don’t need a seal, I guess.”
He handed Drassi a letter. Took a step back as he eyed the cameras. Drassi gazed at it.
“From…”
“Baker Garry. I mean, I don’t know, but that looked bad, and he said in the likely event—hold on. I’ve got to deliver this to Sir Relz and Noass.”
Hawk jogged back through the doors and delivered the other letter. Drassi opened the envelope, tearing the letter out with the tips of her claws. Then she closed her eyes.
“What’s it, uh, say?”
The Courier had come back, and he hovered, violating the Runner’s code, but he had to know. Everyone leaned forwards, even the television crew, and Drassi lifted the letter and showed it. She laughed hoarsely as they saw it wasn’t a proper missive, just an untidy scrawl like a [Baker]’s shopping list.
“It’s—a list of Drake settlements. I’m sure it is. Imec is on here. And so is—Ancestors. It’s the places he wanted to go. There’s a map.”
He had placed them across southern and northern Izril. Drassi lifted it up, then turned. Still crying, but now blinking furiously.
“Where—where are these places? This is what he was trying to do! It was just damn bread, and all of that? What was it for?”
She hurled her notes into the air, and Hawk took a step back.
“Hey. We all saw it. He was an Antinium doing a Courier’s job. He should have hired one of us. Just saying.”
He shrugged, a touch defensive, as everyone glared at him. Drassi’s mouth worked, and then she opened her clenched fist. She put her head down on the desk.
“Hawk? How was he supposed to do that? He was a [Baker] working for the city of Liscor. You cost too much. Someone…someone send out a [Reporter]. Show me those villages. Let’s see if killing the only person willing to make and send food to these places was a great strategic decision.”
The news crews moved, because this, at least, was something. They didn’t see the moment that was the true story, the second the Antinium pulled himself up over the cliffs. They didn’t know he was alive for a while.
But that was it, anyways.
The [Chef]’s plan. He kept it simple.
 
——
 
When Garry woke up, everything hurt. And he heard the sounds of, well, crunching. They were the sounds of someone eating toasted bread.
His bread.
They stood in the plaza in front of the gates, chewing. Someone had started a fire, and they were toasting his bread. Eating it with some cheese that must have been in the Chest of Holding.
How long he’d been passed out, he didn’t know. A long time? If so, they hadn’t moved.
They just ate. He hoped they hadn’t eaten themselves into danger, but the Drakes weren’t covering the Chest of Holding. They just toasted the bread and cheese on the fire. Then moved back. Staring at him.
No one had killed him as he slept and levelled. Nor had they patched his wounds. When he shifted, they jerked backwards, and dried blood fell again. They had stayed away from him; the footprints in the square had muddied everything but a circle around him, which was pristine.
When his head rose, they were afraid. But one of them, a Drake holding a scrying orb, called out. She was old and sitting in a rocking chair someone had dragged out, a canopy made of Razorbeak wings covering her and a goathide blanket over her legs.
“Antinium. The City of Growth has contacted us. They are sending food. So is Salazsar, and fuel and wood to mend the bridge. To other villages as well. The cities of Luldem, Savilite, the town of Oest, and the Yoldenites have all, also, dispatched parties bound with fuel and provisions.”
So Hawk had sent his letter. It was…light? He’d felt it had been dark. Then was it now morning? Garry tried to get up, but his legs didn’t want to, so he stayed there. A door was waiting for him, but he didn’t take it, not yet.
He was tired. In a second. Just let him sit one more second.
There was a pause as the old Drake waited before continuing.
“When the first provisions arrive, we will turn over this—bread and the supplies and burn the rest. Already, in the village of Imec, they have done the same because Drake provisions have reached them via Courier.”
The folk of Aethdell’s Summit waited. The [Baker]’s head rose after a beat, and his mandibles opened. He rasped.
“Good.”
Then he pushed himself up. The Drakes drew back, clearing a path towards the gates, and Garry saw some children staring at him. He’d lost his hat. But the look in their eyes…he walked over to the Chest of Holding, then began pulling loaves of bread out. They stirred as he began stacking them on the ground. They kept falling over, but he dumped them out and then closed the lid. Then he picked up the worn leather and began to pull.
“What—what’re you doing? That’s our food. We need it.”
A Drake blocked his path, his stomach still clinging to his spine. Garry jerked his head at the pile he’d left.
“That is half. I must take the rest.”
“But we don’t have the other provisions. The bridge is down. If we need—”
The Drake wanted to stop Garry, but someone grabbed his tail and yanked him back. An old Drake standing next to a pony, both appearing thin, kept chewing on the bread as Garry stumbled forwards a step.
The old woman in the rocking chair looked around, then called out.
“Antinium. Did you not hear me? The other villages—”
“I heard you. My list is not perfect. There’s another village up here, isn’t there?”
“Feather Rest.”
They murmured it, and the Antinium nodded. He started walking again, and again, there was a move to block him. They had been starving, and the food—Garry halted and looked a mother in her eyes.
“I will not do anything if you stop me. But if you do, then someone else will starve.”
The Drake hesitated and stopped blocking his path. Garry was dragging the chest towards the gates when the old woman spoke.
“You’ll never make it there. On foot? Dragging that thing?”
“I’ll try.”
Their eyes were on the provisions he was taking away. Even if more provisions came, the Chest of Holding didn’t contain as much as a town needed. The rest of it…
He would have fallen over if someone breathed on him hard. He was waiting, and he had run out of miracles sometime before the bridge collapsed. So, when he heard the ringing of hooves and a hand swung down, Garry fell as it struck him.
—Only after a moment did he realize someone was tying him down.
“Ah, torture is it? Or imprisonment?”
After a few seconds, he was embarrassed when he looked down and saw he was lying on a flat little sled. The older Drake finished hitching him to the pony, then mounted up. He kept chewing on the bread as the pony did likewise, and they began to ride out of the gates.
Some might say that lying on a sled as it navigated the bumpy terrain and then had to be hauled up onto one of the huge, flat stone slabs that made bridges from the Drake town to the other plateaus was torture.
But Garry’s legs did not. The Drake and his pony crunched the bread nonstop, and they’d brought enough to munch on for a good long time. Only after a while did the Drake glance down at Garry.
The Drake had a cowboy hat on his head. Which was very stylistic to movies Garry had seen from Earth, but also, coincidentally, was probably just a common shape and useful for braving the elements. The old Drake eyed Garry and said nothing.
Garry lay there.
After about another half-an-hour, the Drake spoke.
“It’d look mighty strange if good, honest Drakes were to eat bread made by an Antinium, y’know.”
“Yes. I know.”
“Can’t risk the wrath of a big city.”
“I know.”
“Even touchin’ one of them or giving it help would be a bad idea. ‘Specially when all the scrying spells started appearing.”
“Yes.”
“Funny thing. We didn’t have a scrying orb ‘till last night. Some Archmage of Wistram wanted us to be interviewed so badly he teleported it in. Took him ten minutes.”
“Very powerful.”
“It’s been a long winter. We ate every pony except this fellow, because he’s got the most Skills attached to him.”
“They killed my horses.”
“And our bridge. Only way down from here unless you go twenty miles across the old Giant Steps like this.”
“I see.”
“If someone was worried about how things looked, he’d have to dump you the moment a [Scrying] spell seemed to be finding you. Though I reckon that’s too late.”
The Drake was glancing at a round crystal ball on his saddle. Garry spoke.
“There’s a ring on my finger. It itches when a [Scrying] spell activates. You could be stealing bread from me.”
“And riding away back home. Sounds about right.”
The stranger dismounted and removed Garry’s ring. He didn’t get back up on his horse, though.
“This is the only right and proper thing to do. Some people would think an Antinium deserved thanks, otherwise. Or call him a hero.”
“That’s silly. [Heroes] kill people. I am a [Baker].”
“I expect you’re right. Need anything?”
The [Baker] nodded.
“Please let me stand up so I may relieve myself. Then I need to answer that door.”
“…What door?”
 
——
 
It was six o’clock in the evening when an Antinium Worker reached the trade-roads winding north towards the High Passes. How, exactly, he had reached the roads that fast was a mystery. He’d moved at incredible speed given where he’d been.
Horse-speed, which baffled the mind. And he shocked the hell out of the Drakes, who shouted in surprise and ran, then looked back because, well—
Half had thought he was dead. They’d turned the scrying orbs off the other night and had unaccountably bad days. The other half had found out he was alive, but he wasn’t…on the scrying orbs.
They were focused on the food being delivered to grateful villages. Not on the [Baker].
He was walking down the road. He had no wagon. He had no horses. He had no Chest of Holding because it was damn heavy and someone could use it.
He’d even lost his beard and red hat in the chasm. But he did have something else: his poofy chef’s hat. It was the only part of him that didn’t look beaten or cut or bloodied, but he kept walking as they pointed.
No one stabbed him. A passing Drake on a pony eyed the Antinium as travellers, even people going for a walk from their local city, all turned. And the Antinium just kept walking north.
At some point, he picked up speed. From a toddling walk to a jog that looked as unsteady as could be. Antinium were not built to run, at least, not in ways that other species felt were comfortable.
Because he didn’t have the same toes or build, Garry ran like he was falling forwards, arms moving to keep him from toppling.
It seemed painful. It probably was painful given the wounds on his back that looked partially dressed, but clotted. But he started jogging as the people following him had to pant and work to keep up. Then someone cleared his throat.
A wagon slowed. A [Farmer] staring ahead down the long road clicked his tongue.
Garry did not get on. After a second, there was an ahem.
Garry did not get on the wagon now directly in front of him. It slowed, and he jogged around. And conversely, seemed to speed up.
The donkey pulling the wagon and the pony-riding Drake both had to actually puff a bit as Garry kept moving, and the [Farmer] glanced sideways.
“You want a ride?”
The Antinium did not sound like someone who was enjoying running for the sake of it when he opened his mouth and gasped a response.
“Immensely. But it would be horrible for a Drake to associate with an Antinium, especially if scrying spells were to activate.”
“Probably. You see any cowards?”
For the second time that day, the [Chef] smiled. But he just willed more energy into his legs, and the [Farmer]’s brows rose.
“If I slow down, I will accept a ride.”
Then he was running ahead of the wagon, and the outraged donkey pulled neck-and-neck, refusing to be beaten by a running beetle. More than one Drake was jogging along purely for their health or to see the wounded Antinium…
Slow?
Two hours later, the [Farmer] peeled off as his donkey lay down on the side of the road. The Antinium saw the pony and rider heading back towards the foothills, and all but a City Runner had long since given up. Even said City Runner was drinking a stamina potion and eying him.
He?
He could see the Bloodfields. Or at least, he really hoped they were the Bloodfields. The Antinium ran onto a familiar dirt road and kept going, refusing to stop. His legs screamed and ached, but he just kept moving.
He had bread to knead, and it wasn’t that much further. Besides…his vacation ended tomorrow. He only slowed, in fact, when he saw someone sliding his way.
Neither Garry nor the Gnoll heading his way looked like they were runners, nor did they think they’d get any running-based Skills because running sucked. Ishkr, at least, could slide.
“Chef Garry. May I invite you to a meal? I’m sure you’d make it the rest of the way on foot, but we have a dinner reservation, and the food is getting cold.”
The Antinium Worker slowed, and Ishkr seemed a bit tired himself, but the two were of a level. And Garry? He stared at Ishkr’s paw, then sighed.
“Oh—very well. Just this once.”
The Gnoll smiled, touched his hand, and Garry stumbled—and then he heard the cheering. He glanced around as a common room full of people shouted, and someone ran forwards with a healing potion.
“Garry? Can I offer you a drink and something to eat?”
Lyonette du Marquin was standing there respectfully as they waited. Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen with a warm loaf of bread in his hands, and Garry found a chair and sat down. Then, he seemed to relax. He let out a long breath he’d been holding and nodded.
“Yes. I do believe I will take a meal, Miss Lyonette. A bowl of Acid Flies, please.”
She wavered. The bread heading his way halted as Asgra paused.
“Er—no bread?”
“No. I’m rather sick of it today.”
Then the [Baker] closed his eyes and slept. Just for a moment.
 
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 45!]
 
[Title – The One Who Delivers Gifts Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Reputation: A Name Every Child Knows Granted!]

10.54 UEG (Pt. 1) (2025-12-31)

Garry – Opening
Here was a lesson for you that he had never forgotten: one person changed everything. Not ‘one person could change everything’…a person always did.
Sometimes it was small, a family or household, but by their presence, each and every person had an impact. But sometimes, all it took was a single young woman to take an Antinium’s hand and breathe life into a lonely, despairing Hive.
Now, approaching two years later, look at the city she had changed. Unintentionally and not always for the better, you had to admit. But she had never been the only person. She had just precipitated an avalanche of lives, and he?
He was a single snowball rolling down the hill after her, and he knew he would not be the last. But Garry the Baker didn’t stop. When he awoke the day after his grand delivery that had set the world to talking, the Antinium Worker sat up, full of aches, pains, healing, grey gel smeared on his body, in a city where everyone knew his name and stared at him, with that same expression they had once given a certain [Innkeeper].
He continued, which surprised them all. But he had never said this was the end of his plans. He just needed new ones. Bigger ones.
He was formulating them the moment he started rolling bread just before dawn. With safety gloves; his fingers still had cracks in them.
 
——
 
They told Garry that there had been a door, a palace that led into the future. He’d missed that too, but he was sort of glad; he didn’t know what his future looked like.
Besides—this was the future to him. The Antinium [Baker] remembered the time before Erin Solstice, and there were Antinium and Liscorian citizens who didn’t. He recalled when Antinium Workers walked only in the shadows, never straying into the light of a city where they had no names.
These days? A Worker strode into the [Bakery] with a little object on his head. It was a crocheted puppy designed to hang off the antennae and rest on their forehead. A very cute design.
“Trendshell, what is that?”
A Gnoll working the morning shift grinned when he saw it, and the other Antinium went still. One of them, a Soldier with scars on her body, glanced at Trendshell.
“It is a Head Puppy. Stitchfingers made it, and I have obtained the first batch.”
Trendshell informed the others, and instantly, several Workers spoke.
“I must have one. Where does Stitchfingers sell it?”
“I must petition a [Knitter] for one.”
“I like cats.”
Garry just smiled as Trendshell did a spin, showing off their newest Antinium-fad, and he was rolling dough so quietly that the other [Bakers] jumped when they finished donning their clothing and hats and found him already working.
“Head Baker, you’re here? But I thought—after yesterday—aren’t you healing?”
One of the Gnolls, Herill, was dismayed as he saw Garry’s still-mending wounds, but the [Baker] replied calmly.
“I am just making up for lost time. Do not mind me.”
He was kneading some regular bread and Scaethen Dough, and the [Bakers] got to work, but were distracted by him. After a moment, one had to ask.
“Did you really fall down a cliff, Head Baker?”
“Yes.”
They waited, and Garry added.
“It was quite unpleasant.”
“But you climbed out? Or did that [Knight] rescue you?”
“Ser Solton? No, I had to climb.”
“You climbed out of that chasm with your bare hands?”
His fingers were cracked a bit, and Garry massaged the dough as everyone gazed at him. He smiled, the ordinary [Baker] they had known yesterday. Only…perhaps he wouldn’t be again, even if he tried to look normal. He had always been the same Garry, but now the one they knew was different.
“It was far less pleasant than kneading dough. Let us begin work, everyone. We must not be late.”
They jumped and, reminded of their work, rushed about, but one would ask another question, and Garry would have to reply that yes, he’d run back. Or no, he hadn’t asked the Flying Antinium to help him, and yes, they could fly…
In the end, he stopped work after an hour because he was distracting them. But more than one [Baker] came up to him as he tried to go. One of them was his day-manager, Lief.
“Listen, Garry…I just wanted to say that the entire kitchen was barely working the entire time you were being attacked. Which I know would have made you upset, but think of how we’d feel, huh? All those cities attacking you and none of them believing you were just delivering bread, our bread…well, I wrote a letter to my aunt and uncle down south because they sent me a [Message] asking if you were selling poison. I don’t know if it changed their minds, but…”
Lief was a Drake, and he gazed down at the ground as Garry saw a huge queue out of the bakery. People standing on their tiptoes to see him. Lief glanced up.
“It’s not all of us that’re crazy. And I was proud to be working here. Sorry, I just wanted to say that on behalf of everyone.”
The other [Bakers] nodded, and Garry smiled. He placed a hand on Lief’s shoulder.
“I do not doubt that, Lief. I think the bakery will be very busy today. And I will be back to check on it, but please, do not think I assume all Drakes are cowards who destroy good bread and kill innocent horses. Just like not all Antinium are as good as Liscorian-Antinium.”
He flicked one antennae in a wink, and Lief grinned. Then there was clapping as the [Bakers] applauded him. Garry found that a bit embarrassing and silly, but he waved to them.
“Should we put some bread aside, Head Baker? For next time?”
“I’m sorry, I don’t know what you mean, Herill. All bread is meant for Liscorians only. Stealing from the bakery would be theft.”
And probably a bit harder next time. They just grinned at him, and Garry exited his bakery and was surprised when more people clapped or cheered for him.
The clapping was highly unnecessary. Garry actually got so uncomfortable that he removed his hat and pulled his apron and clothing off, becoming a regular Worker.
Only…today, the average Liscorian citizen picked him out of the crowd with surprising ease, even for people who knew Antinium. Garry had no idea why at first, then realized he did have injuries.
There was another reason too, but he didn’t figure that out for a bit. But mostly, what Garry decided to do was…take it easy. Just for a bit. He had worked hard, and while he was formulating new plans, he had things to work on himself.
 
——
 
Garry the Baker. Bird the Hunter. Pawn the Priest—though he wasn’t as ‘famous’ publicly as the other two, ironically. Add Belgrade the Strategist and…well, you had Antinium who were changing perception of them. Shaping their Hive. Enemy combatants approaching Gold, or even Named-rank, threats.
That was how Grimalkin should have thought of it. Last year, he’d have been submitting dossiers filled with contingency-plans on how to take out Garry if they entered a state of war with the Antinium. And he would have been part of High Command’s strategy meetings as an expert on Liscor. But these days, he spent as much time in Liscor as Pallass.
So, he supposed that some other bright and loyal son of Pallass might be drawing up contingency plans for him, and he thought that was…well, pointless. Just like he’d viewed the entire attack on Garry’s wagon as a fruitless endeavor.
Well, the bread was probably wheat-based, but the point stood. Garry mattered, but he did not fit in the military ‘us or them’ framing. If Grimalkin could just convince someone of that…well, it was why he had spent this morning seeking out a particular individual and why he was working out with a unique guest to his gymnasium.
General Shirka wasn’t actually that much of a ‘gym rat’, a term that came from Earthers. She was strong enough and could figure out proper form after being shown once, but their conversation was the main focus for her, not the exercise.
Too bad, but the plus side was that she took every officer and [Soldier] stationed with her in 2nd Army for training and rebuilding as well. Over two hundred hit Grimalkin’s gymnasium and actually crowded him out; he let his students teach the soldiers how to exercise and nodded at Lady Pryde. She lifted a too-heavy weight-bar off one of the [Soldiers], shouting.
“No one lifts without a spotter, fools! You want to see what happens when someone’s ribs get compressed by three hundred pounds in a second? Grimalkin, you, me, lunch. Bring the [General] along then if you’re still talking.”
He liked her approach to scheduling. Grimalkin had been all too willing to take the time to discuss every facet of his life with Lady Pryde Ulta, but it turned out that she disliked niceties and asking where she wanted to eat. Be there, 12 o’clock sharp. He respected that. Though he had, privately, noted that the when was very important. Missing a meal by an hour meant Pryde got…testy.
Grimalkin nodded, casting a spell to add it to his schedule, then halted at the doors and coughed.
“Uh, Pryde? We have an engagement already. Lunch is already accounted for, but meet at 10 o’clock?”
The hemp bag on Lady Pryde’s head turned, and she paused.
“We do? Ah, yes, of course. Ten, then. You there, stop lifting like that!”
He left her to it. Grimalkin gestured as General Shirka walked next to him.
“There’s another place we can exercise, General. And talk more privately.”
She grunted.
“I’ll hear you out on the Antinium, and I’m receptive to not thinking every Humans is a foe, Sinew Magus, but you’re not exactly making inroads with the right person if you want political clout. You’d be better-served finding a [Senator] or another [General].”
“I have a running spreadsheet of powerful players in Pallass, General Shirka. However, I would like to state that the most expedient choice is not the best when it comes to determining the City of Invention’s future.”
She smiled thinly as they strode along.
“I’ll take that as a compliment.”
 
——
 
Grimalkin had a private gymnasium he ran, of course, and Pallass had built a second one with a third on the way, but for privacy, there was really only one place to go.
Liscor, or rather, The Wandering Inn. Another public gymnasium was up in the city proper, but the private one in the inn was relatively unused. You’d get the Thronebearers, a few of the Goblins, and Relc or Bezale in there, but most of the guests weren’t [Lifters].
Plus, the inn was virtually impossible to find unless you were a friend. Even Grimalkin had to concentrate in the portal room for a second.
“Right. This way.”
He covertly motioned Shirka to the door and led her into the ‘invisible’ inn. They were talking as he pushed the door into the weights room open and halted.
“I just don’t see the potential for any alliance, Sinew Magus. No matter what, they’re just independents, never allies. Pallass will never accept an Antinium, even as auxiliaries. And the odds of them helping us? I—huh.”
Shirka stopped in the open doorway. Grimalkin observed, in the calm portion of his mind, that this was a record.
He had never, actually, seen an Antinium in his gymnasiums. They didn’t…work out. A few might have lifted weights for the novelty of it, but they didn’t seem to need it to build muscle. But—well—he saw the Antinium in question stop deadlifting a bar.
The weights on the bar told him the bar was currently at four hundred and forty pounds. Which was…Grimalkin coughed as Shirka’s eyes swung to him.
“Is this an eponymous Solstice Moment, Sinew Magus?”
“Possibly just coincidence. Er, good morning, Baker. You have excellent form.”
Garry turned his head.
“Do I? I am glad, Sinew Magus. I was uncertain about it, but I have read through your instruction manuals and reviewed all the poses. Though for Antinium, they are somewhat complex.”
Yes, they didn’t have the same body structure! What a blunder! Only—an Antinium lifting weights? Grimalkin kept staring as Garry executed another squat and realized Garry was right.
Due to his back-shell, his ability to flex his posterior was almost nonexistent. Actually, the deadlift worried Grimalkin.
“I’m not certain how effective that is, Baker. You’re bearing the weight amazingly well, though.”
“Oh? If you can suggest a better form—”
Shirka stood back, watching as Grimalkin paced around. Instantly, the Sinew Magus made a few suggestions and began taking notes in a journal. He composed his first Antinium-form guide within minutes of walking Garry through safe lifting techniques, but stayed there for nearly half an hour.
Merely to…well, note down the weights that the [Baker] was lifting. He’d compare them against his own datasets later, but General Shirka herself went to try the bench press after Garry was done and grunted.
She glanced sideways at Grimalkin.
“Not a threat, you said? That’s the largest damn Worker I’ve ever seen in my life.”
“I believe the term is ‘swolest’, though I object to the term myself. Earther-slang.”
“Another headache I don’t really want to be part of.”
She grimaced, and Grimalkin eyed her as they watched Garry wipe down the equipment he’d been using. He didn’t actually sweat, but he’d done a thorough workout. Then the [Baker] turned.
“Sinew Magus, as it is still objectionably wet in the city, I would prefer to run elsewhere, but other locations are apparently an issue. What would you consider appropriate distances for running?”
“Er, for an amateur? I would start at a mere mile or less; anything is better than nothing. For you? Four laps of the city, depending on your available time.”
Garry nodded.
“My legs find this idea objectionable, but I suppose this is considered ‘healthy’. It appears most healthy things are unpleasant.”
“Do you—like lifting those weights, Baker?”
Shirka addressed Garry for the first time, awkwardly stiff, but polite enough. Garry glanced at her.
“I do not, General. But it appears to me that it would be good to be more in shape.”
“In case you have to climb another cliff?”
“Yes, that did occur to me. Thank you, Sinew Magus, and good day to you, General Shirka.”
He walked past the two. The two Drakes stared after him, and then Grimalkin blinked.
“General Shirka, he knew who you were.”
“Yes. And your point about him not being a threat was…”
She turned to him, and Grimalkin scratched at his chin, then shrugged.
“I believe, General, that my point is actually further demonstrated by the preceding encounter. Would you want him as an actual foe?”
“Hm. Fair point.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was an excellent place to get a lot of what Garry needed. Of course, even here, everyone wanted to talk about his delivery.
Lyonette, in particular, was incensed, but unable to scold him fully, which Garry was relieved by. In fact, they just pointed him at the gymnasium, and when he emerged after an encounter with Grimalkin, he was barely able to procure a breakfast.
“Here, Garry. Very sorry, but is a busy day, eh?”
Calescent shoved some egg salad onto a tray with a fried fish. Garry didn’t mind the food, and he noted the [Chef] was scarfing down a red bowl of peppered pasta with someone else.
Elia Arcsinger was wiping sweat out of her eyes but refused to stop gulping down food. As they ate, a Goblin was shoving neatly-wrapped boxes into a hamper bin.
“Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen…how many is we got, Boss Peggy?”
Asgra complained, and Peggy counted.
“Eh, Grimalkin and Pryde coming too. So add two more.”
“Damn. Oh, hey, it Garry! You didn’t hear that! I’m very good. Very good Goblin. Am I on the good list?”
Asgra brightened up and clapped a claw over her mouth. Garry tilted his head as he saw more of the staff rushing about. They seemed to be preparing for something. Mrsha and Nanette were importantly marching to-and-fro.
“Okay, Calming Tonics, check! Octavia’s going to have the rest brewed, and we’re waiting on some of our initial strikeforce. Late, as usual.”
Nanette had on military boots and a quasi-military uniform, and even Mrsha wore a sash and kilt. Lyonette was in the midst of it all. Garry addressed Asgra.
“What list would this be, Asgra?”
“The nice list! Does I get presents now? Or only in the winter?”
“Oh. Only in the winter.”
“Bread?”
“Are you starving, Asgra?”
She thought about it and patted her stomach.
“Eh…no. Damn. I mean shit. You forget you heard that. I a very good girl…for a Goblin. Okay, we going soon. Garry Christmas!”
“Er…thank you?”
She waved at him with a huge smile, and Garry backed up a step as Ser Dalimont and Lyonette found him.
“Garry! I’m so sorry we can’t give you more of a welcome—sit, please! Anything you want, on the house. We have Xinthe minding the shop while we’re gone, but Calescent will be out, and so will I. Er, Garry Christmas!”
“Is that a saying now, Miss Lyonette?”
She hesitated.
“I heard all the children shouting it. Is it not something you’d say? You are Santa now.”
“I suppose I am. You realize that was an artful ruse, though?”
She chuckled as she adjusted a very impressive dress. Ser Dalimont’s armor was polished, and the door opened to admit more friends of the inn. Colfa swept in, followed by—
“Hey, there the Baker is! Chieftain, Chieftain. Can I get autograph or bread?”
A Hobgoblin, a Redfang warrior, that Garry didn’t know shouted right before someone booted him in the butt. Chieftain Rags marched forwards.
“Out of the way, idiots. Don’t bother him too much. Lyonette, we’re here.”
She and Lyonette met as the [Princess] thanked her for coming; Garry had no idea what was going on and saw Ser Dalimont greeting the Goblins.
“Redscar, thank you for coming. How many Wyverns…?”
The [Blademaster] grinned.
“Two. Don’t mind Chieftain; she just grumpy because certain cute [Student] gone. Also, she argue for two hours with Naumel about him coming. You glad he not coming; he’d actually fight.”
“Very perceptive as always.”
“Yah. Hey, you Garry, right? You got any bread?”
Garry did not, in fact, have any bread. The disappointed Goblins contented themselves with greeting the other members of staff, fist-bumping Nanette and Mrsha, and grinning. Garry had to ask.
“Excuse me, what is going on today?”
Mrsha turned and held up a card, surprised.
Don’t worry, Garry, it’s going to be low-key. Off the scrying orbs, if we can help it. Valeterisa will see to that. We’re just going to beat up a loudmouth and a [Healer].
Garry thought about that for a second.
“Oh, of course. The Healer of Tenbault. I find it hard to keep up with happenings. Is it dangerous?”
“Yah, for her.”
One of the Goblins grinned, and Garry estimated the relative levels of Rags, Lyonette, her various guardians—he could see Elia, Elosaith, Vaulont, all preparing—not to mention Redscar.
He concurred.
“I hope you have an uneventful time.”
The inn’s family nodded at him as Bird came buzzing down the stairs with Apista.
“I slept in! Are we rescuing Tessa yet? I will have unborn birds for breakfast! Oh, Garry. I am going to hit you because you made me worried.”
“Ow, ow, ow. Bird, that hurts.”
Mrsha and Nanette dragged Bird away from Garry as they prepared for an important mission of mercy of their own. And Garry? He sat and ate his breakfast and swatted Bird away when she tried to eat his egg salad.
It wasn’t his battle. Also, frankly—he felt like they didn’t need him. After Relc and Valeterisa came downstairs, Garry wondered if Lyonette wasn’t engaging in overkill a bit. Ah, well.
It’d distract from him being all over the news. And that wasn’t a bad thing.
 
——
 
Garry hated running. Especially on Liscor’s slippery, wet streets, but if it helped, then he’d do it. He was slowed by foot traffic and the new lights on streets as well as people recognizing him.
Mostly children, who shouted ‘Garry Christmas’ and assured him they were being good. Many wanted to try his bread, and he directed them to the bakery. But, thankfully, the Liscorians seemed to be focused on the two Wyverns they’d seen flying across the Floodplains, and his disguise of not wearing any clothing but his loincloth kept him relatively anonymous.
He was finishing his third lap and grumbling about how this was going to cut into his time for anything else but running when Garry came across Visma and Ekirra. Well, a gang of children, really.
Kenva, Rittane, Rinni, Mrsha’s former school bully, Visma, and Ekirra, were playing with forty-some kids from across Liscor.
Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, all of whom were listening to Visma shouting. Garry slowed as he jogged by the park where they were occupying one of the enchanted playgrounds and the sand.
“The Wandering Inn is under attack! It’s five Adult Crelers and—Ancestors, an Elder Creler is coming out of the ground! Fight! Fight! Goblins, hold it back! Where’s our reinforcements?”
“The Silverfangs are coming! We’re coming!”
Ekirra led a howling group of Gnolls against the ‘Crelers’, which were wet, soaking contraptions of wood that the children attacked with swords. The fierce battle of shouting was like any other group of children playing, but again—it was a reminder.
A reminder that Erin and Garry weren’t the only people who shaped Liscor. Even Mrsha had made things change. So, as the Antinium [Baker] and several onlookers watched, they saw the children fighting the advancing ‘Crelers’ and then do something strange.
Normally, in such fights, you’d expect children to be the Gold or Named-rank heroes saving the day, perhaps a few [Princesses]. Beating up the unlucky side who got to be the bad-guys. Certainly, there were a lot of beatings involved for the hypothetical Crelers. But by the time the Elder Creler was being killed by ‘Archmage Amerys’, played by Visma, two Named-rank heroes, including an almost-naked Human boy in his underpants as Saliss of Lights, and over two-thirds of the children were lying on the ground in the rain.
Dead. Visma turned as the Elder Creler toppled over, and looked around. Then Rittane, who had on a [Witch]’s hat, lowered a frying pan and cried out.
“Oh no. They’re all dead. They’re all…the Silverfangs. My friends. Dead.”
She gazed around with such a stricken face that several of the adults glanced at each other. Then Rittane buried her face in her hands and began to sob. All the children began crying, and several of the ‘dead’ children began sobbing too.
“Dead gods.”
A horrified mother wanted to take her children away from the captivating scene. Garry just watched until the sobbing stopped and Ekirra sat up.
“Okay! That was good! Let’s do the Meeting of Tribes next!”
“Hm. I am sure this is not entirely healthy. But what is?”
The children raced off to play more ‘Wandering Inn’ as more converts followed. Garry continued jogging, thinking.
 
——
 
There was something…crass about it. Speaking as a Worker who had been there, fighting Skinner, Garry did not like the way they played at death, but then again—they’d seen the inn attacked.
Children, he understood, emulated what they saw. He certainly had in Erin’s chess club when it had been all he’d known. So he could not hold it against them entirely.
Moreover…they’d lost people they loved, surely. Children were drawn to true things. There was little truer than that grief; they just displayed it in ways that were mildly offensive. So let them play?
“It’s not my problem.”
That was the [Baker]’s swift conclusion. There was a lot in the world Garry would do, if he lived. Amending children’s playtime? Not on that list.
It was eight o’clock by the time Garry finished his new routine he’d been working on. Morning bakery, of course, exercise—he could optimize it down to an hour, probably—then he got to work. Garry checked the news and was pleased to see the villages he had listed were being fed. It was, in fact, the morning news, and no one was paying attention to him.
There were Drakes on Sir Relz’s show loudly speaking.
“—could have blown up that bridge himself, you know.”
“Really? Himself?”
Sir Relz was entertaining the caller, but had one brow raised as the Drake blustered.
“Well, why not? You didn’t see who cast the spells, didja? Could be the Antinium did it to make us look bad! Or Humans!”
“It’s true we didn’t see who cast the spells, but—oh, I think another delivery has just reached Imec. And we’re getting more callers who want to talk about their situations. Caller, hold one second, let’s go to a camera and see—”
Garry sat and thought about it for a second. Food being delivered? Excellent. There was no such thing as ‘too much food’ in the cases of the villages and settlements he’d listed.
“But certainly, I have missed some. This will work. For a day, a week. They will get bored.”
It did not diminish the success, of course, merely indicated a window in which further deliveries of bread were suboptimal. Plus—Garry was investigating his pantries while he worked—
“…I’m out of bread.”
Months of stockpiled bread delivered in the span of a week. Time to build it up again. Sadly, Garry hadn’t received any Skills that multiplied the quantity of bread made. But he had a number of unique loafs he could now bake.
[Bread Mastery] might mean the quality of his personal baking was higher. He’d investigate. If the [Loaf of Luck], for instance, had some commercial viability, maybe he could sell it for gold?
Research. Exercise. And oh, yes. Garry heard a ping as a [Message] scroll the Mage’s Guild had given him this morning lit up.
“Ah, time for my meeting.”
The point of the delivery was to deliver bread, as he’d told Erin. But as she’d recognized, it was never just one thing. It was the television, it was the attention. If he lived—it was what came after.
He’d learned from the master, after all.
 
——
 
Perhaps the man in the scrying orb was a monster. Perhaps he was simply powerful, and the two were one and the same. Garry hadn’t worked that out yet in his head; philosophy was hard, the books on it esoteric.
But the Mage’s Guild certainly jumped when this man spoke. Garry sat in a private room for this meeting, and the fact that the suspicious, great Archmage of Memories had time for him was because Garry had been on the news.
He would have ignored Garry completely otherwise. And yes, Garry knew that he was an enemy of someone. Perhaps Ryoka, perhaps Erin, perhaps more…but that did not preclude Garry from talking to Eldavin. He needed the half-Elf’s help, so Garry smiled at the half-Elf. Eldavin did not smile back, but merely puffed on a pipe.
“I note the smile. Let me summarize for the sake of expediency. You want me to enable further crimes—”
“That is a hostile way of reframing your actions, Archmage. I only want a small donation, please.”
“The Drakes won’t see it that way. Let’s say I make this vehicle. Of which you have numerous demands—”
Eldavin glanced at a sketch Garry had made and snorted.
“—But which is within my abilities, naturally. I would incur the wrath of the Walled Cities and Drake antipathy why?”
Garry smiled even brighter.
“I wonder what the rest of the world will see, Archmage? I have seen your splendid magical carriages, though the ones around Liscor cannot run on water, which would also be wonderful advertising.”
Eldavin frowned and flicked one finger.
“They don’t? Damn, that’s purely obvious. Valeterisa should have…too busy ‘rediscovering’ autocasting. What other cities…? Sandstorm proofing, light spells for use in dark areas like Noelictus—Teura? I need a list of cities with unique geography—”
He called to a half-Elf, who wrote industriously, then turned back.
“Perspecarious of you.”
“Thank you, though I am sure you would have thought of it if you had the moment, Archmage.”
The half-Elf paused, seemingly surprised that Garry knew the word and, perhaps, by the flattery. He went on after a beat.
“All of this may advertise Wistram’s carriages, you have a point. But I should give you, you specifically, one because?”
“Because it is for a good cause—feeding the hungry—Archmage. When such news spreads, your name will be the one people speak of. And Wistram’s. I am sure you will do this.”
The half-Elf’s cerulean eye gleamed in the smoke.
“Aha. The threat being that if we did not, you would go to another magical institution or make it known we refused?”
He sat like a coiled cat waiting for the trap. And Garry? Garry tilted his head.
“Threat? I would not threaten you, Archmage. I am merely confident because you are a good person. The Archmage of Memory has already led Wistram in solving the crisis of farming in the New Lands. You have given magic to the magicless. You would not let the hungry starve.”
The Archmage of Memories glanced past Garry and grimaced. He shuffled the papers on his desk, cleared his throat a few times, and coughed.
“Ahem. Well—expedience is a virtue unto itself with great institutions and nations. If Wistram does perform charity, it is because magic is often free. Just add mana. It costs us nothing to—I’ll consider your request. Thank you. Have a nice day. Teura? Make a—”
He vanished from the scrying orb, and Garry kept smiling as he stood up, on the vague hunch that Eldavin could see through the scrying orbs even after they seemed to turn off. He walked from the room after thanking the [Mage] who hurried in after him.
Plans indeed. Garry was not above daggering an Archmage in the morality-kidneys if it helped a single person. He was a good deal below it, in fact. He was an Antinium.
 
——
 
Liscor’s Council wanted a word with him at 1 PM, probably about his actions. Garry calculated that this Council would be sympathetic to him, especially Lism. If another one was elected, well…he’d figure that out.
But like The Wandering Inn, it was not his concern. In a very deliberate sense; tying his actions to the inn would have meant probably being shot by the Bloodfeast Raiders or something on his delivery.
He had to be separate. Garry was scratching his head as he tried to make his first Loaf of Luck; unlike Erin, he believed in using all of his Skills.
“Four-leaf clovers? Alas, I must have them grown, I suppose.”
He scribbled a note to the Antinium [Farmers]. Easy enough to grow more…he hoped. In the meantime, he had his first piece of Kraken Biscuit sitting next to a Shadowloaf he’d always wanted to make.
The Shadowloaf was wonderfully dark and dimmed the light in the room. The Kraken Biscuit? After a few attempts with a knife, Garry knocked it against the side of his kitchen counter and took a divot out of the hardwood.
“Hm. I suspect I may have overbaked this. Or perhaps I need to figure out how it’s eaten.”
Seborn would have probably known. He’d have to inquire with Drowned Folk. Maybe it could make for good armor? If only he had access to Pallass’ libraries, Garry could look up some of this bread.
Oh well; he placed it on a tray filled with treats and rolled it into the Free Queen’s chambers.
“My Queen? I apologize for my absence and unannounced trips. I have some treats for you as a result of my levelups.”
His attempted bribe for the Free Queen did not go as he hoped. Instead of snatching the food and calling Deferred Sustenance, her pet Rock Crab, the Free Queen just regarded him on her comfy Throne of Fluff, which she’d had made when she realized it was softer on her nether regions.
“Garry. You have caused a disturbance in Drake cities as well as the Antinium Hives. Your actions have alarmed them and thrust my leadership into question.”
He hesitated, then bowed his head.
“I am sorry, my Queen. I did this in furtherance of my levels.
She paused, and Xevccha bent forwards. Her tone was serious, but not dark.
“You lie well, my [Baker]. If you are mine. It occurs to me, belatedly, that the strength of our Autonomous Antinium project was always built upon the fact that they rebelled from us. Klbkchhezeim and myself. Pawn. You. Belgrade. Bird most of all—none of you are truly mine, are you? Anand might have been, but I think he was Klbkchhezeim’s.”
Garry peeked up at her as Deferred Sustenance scuttled forwards, took the Kraken Biscuit, and tried to break it with its little claws. Well, little relative to the Free Queen. He wondered if he should lie or use the lack of a statue he’d seen in the garden to deflect the conversation. He opted for truth.
“I…respect you as the Free Queen, my Queen. Without you, the Hive will not function.”
“But your deliveries were a surprise to me. You have your own plan. As do the other Antinium. I am the Queen of the Free Antinium. However, the irony of this name did not occur to me until now.”
The Queen sat back in her throne of pillows, and Garry waited. She spoke softly.
“We are changing, Garry. Klbkchhezeim is perhaps the last of us to change. I have seen shifts in him, but not fully. He is upon his grand journey, and we shall see what he chooses. But you and I? We truly are new Antinium of Izril. I merely clung to my old shell because I had no way forwards.”
Garry bowed lower, sincere.
“If I have endangered the Free Hive, I do regret it, Free Queen. What does the Grand Queen will?”
He knew from his overheard conversations and the Free Queen’s complaining that Xevccha did not care for the leader of all Izril’s Antinium. The Free Queen waved a feeler.
“She damned you to the Drakes. Despite your levels. In the wake of your survival, she has humiliated herself. A common occurrence. She can do little to my Hive that has not been done already. Withhold resources? We produce enough that that is no longer a salient threat. No, two elements concern me. She has insisted I will soon receive a supply of some new…auxillary units to the Free Hive. [Slaves].”
Garry’s head rose.
“[Slaves], Free Queen?”
“From Roshal. I do not like the idea of them. They are a foreign power’s tools. I have studied these Slavers of Roshal, and I do not trust them—but the Grand Queen wills it. It may be against Liscor’s laws as well. Even if we do not need to respect them in the Hive, I…wish to honor them as well as we are able. I shall see what becomes of these [Slaves], but before that—she is greatly displeased by your actions, Garry.”
“I…see.”
He did not know [Slaves] well, either, and wished he knew more. A library would do. Or was this something Erin knew much of? Kevin had gone with Lyonette, and so had Joseph…Imani. Garry could bring her his new loafs and share the recipes. After the Council meeting. Had Erin not been upon Roshal’s ships?
The Free Queen’s next comment brought Garry’s working mind to stillness, though. She spoke as she bent forwards again.
“The Grand Queen demands your presence, Garry. You will go to the Hivelands via our tunnel. Tonight. I will send Free Antinium in case of monsters and to represent the Hive…I cannot find Pawn at this moment. Take supplies. Ensure she is impressed with your cooking.”
Garry stared up at the Free Queen, and she flicked an antennae at him.
“She is rather partial to foods herself. Do not worry, the other Queens will merely wish to meet you as well. You will have to do a lot of cooking. Try to avoid the Twisted Queen.”
Like that—Garry suddenly had a huge problem on his hands. Not the Grand Queen. Nor what the Free Queen thought would be his concern, for she did not truly understand him. But they respected each other.
No…Garry’s crisis was suddenly straightforwards and hit him like a Tier 8 spell when it manifested in his head.
The Antinium. I never even considered my people.
They, too, were hungry. But he didn’t think his bread could feed them, even if he had enough. Not the deep hunger in their souls.
He was suddenly in desperate need of advice. A certain [Innkeeper] to send the door for him again. But she did not. Erin Solstice was a bit distracted with her fight with Ulvama.
 
——
 
Erin and Ulvama – Intro
Lemoste-Under-Cliffs had finished its first layer of walls, magicore mortar and enchanted bricks worked into natural vines and plants, a living barrier, after the passage of another week. And the second, inner layer of wall was already mostly done, because it was a wall of water. The real trick was pumping all of it from a stream; it was only a few feet thick, but embedded cryomancy spells would freeze anything coming through it—if they made it this far.
The third wall would just be mithril, but sourcing a vein and mining and forging the plates would take time. The first two walls going up had restored some semblance of safety to the Fraerlings, and the city life had returned, even if there were still mandatory volunteer hours.
It was a lovely, brave Fraerling city. Not the strongest. Not the most advanced, but Lemoste’s crafting and artisanal districts were among the top five on Bowom’s lists, and its proximity and good connections to Fraerling villages like Dretonamis meant it had a lot more ‘natural’ resources unlike a more traditionalist city that was all metal and magic. Lemoste, rebuilding, mourning, thriving, beautiful, and spirited and for so many, home.
Bowom hated it here. He couldn’t wait to leave. The problem was—they’d been here long past when Eurise had wanted to go, and it seemed like they’d be here longer.
Certainly, the Fraerling [Explorer] wasn’t happy; he didn’t like big cities much either, and without any more ants to kill and Lemoste restabilizing their food supplies, he was bored. So he was hounded by all kinds of Fraerlings, from Tallguard to civilians, who wanted to either trade stories with Eurise the Explorer or test his mettle. His scowl grew day by day, but over breakfast, he just asked one question.
“How’s it looking, Bowom? Ready to go?”
“Uh—I could use a day or two in the city. You know, visiting my patient? Reflatibulating the adreconsoid valves? Can’t do that without a hebribrolator, and where am I going to get that?”
The [Explorer] nodded shortly, then pushed himself up.
“I’m going hunting. Roja, you coming?”
“Er…sure.”
“We’re going too!”
The rather silent breakfast table saw Zemmy and Mera shoot to their feet. Instantly, Eurise and Roja glared.
“You’re staying here. Help rebuild or something.”
Roja pointed, and the two [Brawlers] glanced at each other, then sat back down, visibly reluctant. Bowom peeked at a Hobgoblin picking at her food and an [Innkeeper] looking anywhere but at Ulvama. Then at the annoyed hamster who was punching Erin.
“Ow. Ow. Stop it.”
Matha tried to separate the two, and Eurise eyed Bowom. It was a sign of the times that no one even asked Bowom what a ‘hebribrolator’ was. He had no idea; he’d just thrown it out there.
“Take your time, Bowom.”
His time. The [Mad Doctor] smiled and flicked his eyes towards Erin and Ulvama. Eurise shrugged. Roja waved her fingers at Mera and Zemmy and then, when Zemmy protested, mimed slamming his and Mera’s heads together.
Cowards. Well, there was a rule in Fraerling villages that two high-level people shouldn’t quarrel, but Bowom sighed gustily. He glanced at Erin, who eventually got up to eat breakfast outside. Ulvama began chatting noisily the moment Erin got up.
“The magical wall is very pretty. Why don’t we see it later, Matha?”
“I dunno, Ulvama—”
“C’mon, we go. And Bowom, you coming?”
“Maybe.”
Bowom experimentally cut a slice out of the air and put some on his toast. He chewed for a bit. He was getting into this bread stuff. It really went well with all the tension. He put his feet up on the table and glanced right as Ulvama left the table as well.
“What?”
The Battle Hamster had stopped glaring at Erin, and Zemmy and Mera were peering at Bowom. Mera hesitated and pointed at his toast.
“Bowom, what the heck did you just cut and put on your toast?”
“An idiom.”
“Huh?”
Zemmy slapped Mera’s shoulder.
“He’s calling you an idiot, idiot!”
“No, just the both of you. I’ll take Ulvama—you go out with Erin and try to be useful?”
The two [Brawlers] glared at him as Bowom stretched and brightly smiled around at the world. One week and the two were still fighting. He wondered if slitting his throat at the table and bleeding over breakfast would work—probably not. But he was rapidly looking into it as an option.
Ah, well. The tension could not last forever. Bowom had his own moment to wait for. He hummed to himself before swinging himself out of his seat.
“Putting it off too long really is true madness. Important conversations to have. Important moments, really. You can’t argue with that.”
Zemmy and Mera gazed at him as if he were crazy because he didn’t bother with context and they didn’t ever search for any. Plus…well, it was his class. What, did they think [Mad Doctor] was a joke? Now, a [Sane Doctor], that was scary.
Bowom sharpened his scalpel as he sighed and got to work.
 
——
 
As Bowom understood things, somewhere in the world was an Antinium who, contrary to the name, looked more like a beetle-person with four arms. His name was Garry. He made food, and his technical class was [Chef], but he was famous for being a [Baker]. He had delivered bread to starving people, and this was objectionable, horrible, and wrong—to some sensibilities.
Because he had delivered bread, many things had happened. People had not starved. He had made enemies, galvanized people to be charitable because, again, funnily, they had needed a reason to feed hungry people—
And it was why Erin and Ulvama were fighting.
There was more context to it than that, but it was an amusing way to write his report back to Dretonamis. The Hobgoblin and [Innkeeper] had quarrelled over Garry’s actions and amplified an existing fight over armpits. Another thing that really required explanations.
Vrilla had sent Bowom three letters demanding explanations on behalf of everyone, and he’d happily failed to give any satisfactory ones. That was all well and funny, but the truth was that the fighting was past amusing, if it had ever been that, and into annoying.
So long as the duo were at odds, the expedition wasn’t going anywhere. Hence Eurise acceding to Bowom’s stupid requests. Only Erin and Ulvama seemed to buy it wasn’t about them. Though that was probably willful ignorance. Neither one was an idiot.
Correction: they were all stupid, and this was their particular hangup. Bowom was caught in the middle of the fighting, and because Eurise was hands-off, Roja had appointed him as the peacemaker.
Him. Pure madness, but she’d framed it as it being a medical problem, and in fairness…Bowom did know what was going on the best.
He just didn’t have answers because resolving social matters was not his expertise, but who else did they have?
Mera and Zemmy punched and kicked their feelings out. Eurise was a Level 50+ [Explorer]. Roja? Same problems, lower levels. She was trying with Erin, but…
Of the Fraerlings who really knew Erin and Ulvama, that left only Matha, who probably was doing the best out of the lot, and also the Hamster and Beetle. So yes, it was Bowom’s job, and if he had his druthers, he’d have taken the Corumdon Beetle everywhere with him as backup, but the darned insect couldn’t fit into buildings.
Here was his prognosis: the two were fighting not about armpits or Garry, but about deeper issues that were coming to a head here. Not just because it had been bubbling over for a while, but because it was Lemoste. Safe.
You couldn’t have these kinds of fights on the road. Bowom had heard of groups of Fraerlings working together as Tallguard or [Explorers] serving together for years in the rough, then getting back and breaking bones on the first night they were in a village. He’d done some of the patching up too. Not socially, again, but physically. Lots of splints or, sometimes, sewing a limb on. Sometimes a genital, and that was always fiddly.
So all this to say that no one was taking this lightly, except maybe Zemmy and Mera, and only because those two were idiots. They were grousing as they cleaned up the table.
“I don’t get why we’ve gotta do all the talking, Mera. Plus, we’ve gotta do dishes. How do you clean them?”
“Scrub, idiot.”
“With what? Damn, broke another one.”
[Brawlers]. They lived with friends at their age, and Bowom watched as Zemmy tossed a dish across the kitchen and into the washbasin, which had splendid plumbing. He shattered the dish and winced. The fact that it was both Fraerling-made and enchanted was offset by how hard Zemmy had hucked the dish.
“You idiot! Do it like this!”
Mera lifted the table, and all the utensils and plates slid onto the floor. She then scooped it all up with the tablecloth and dumped it in the washbasin.
“Nice.”
What ensued was the two of them picking at the dishes, pouring water and too much soap over them, and grousing. Bowom didn’t help. He just listened, practicing some fine stitching on the skin of his right arm. Exact, evenly-spaced stitching, the kind you could suture a Fraerling heart’s vein with. And he listened.
“I don’t get why Eurise isn’t helping. He should take Erin aside and, I dunno, tell her to make up or punch Ulvama a good one. Always works with us.”
“Yeah! And why’s Matha so important? We’re the ones who made friends with Erin and Ulvama first. But now it’s Matha this, Matha that—she was leading the Cottontail Raiders! What about us? They’re always pulling her aside.”
The two [Brawlers] placed the still-sudsey dishes on racks, and Bowom counted how many had food particles attached. Then counted how many didn’t, then gave up.
You had to admit, they were entertaining in the same way that a carpentry incident was. Bowom didn’t mind that sort of thing; you could put almost anything back on with enough thread, and if not? Replacements made for a wonderful change of limb.
Zemmy glared out the window.
“Let’s do this thing or Roja’ll shout at us. Who should we talk to first?”
“Erin? We said we’d spar with her.”
“Sure.”
They exited the guest house, and Bowom strode over to the window. He didn’t clean the dishes as they dried, just watched from the kitchen window as Erin sat on a little bench, staring at the ground.
Fun facts about the fight. Erin Solstice was banned from exploring the city by Vision Tiregal. She was confined to this sector—because her aura and Skills were bumming everyone out. Well, she wasn’t always gloomy, but she alternated between that and…
“Hey, Erin! Wanna spar?”
Zemmy and Mera were actually too late to challenge Erin; a certain Battle Hamster was vying for a brawl. He was glaring, literally hopping mad, and clearly on Team Ulvama.
Now, you might ask why the Battle Hamster had chosen sides. Was it because Ulvama fed him? His own prescient understanding of events and moral deliberations on Erin? His dislike of the [Innkeeper]?
Possibly, possibly. But Bowom rather suspected that the reason the Battle Hamster was so mad was because he hadn’t been combed or pampered for the last several days. A certain Ulvama hadn’t done it, mad as she was, and the Battle Hamster, now used to being taken care of, was upset. And the [Shaman] had indicated where his anger should lie.
Wasn’t that interesting? Bowom had liked Erin and Ulvama from the start. They were new, fascinating, arguably insane, and that had captivated Dretonamis. But inevitably, he’d gotten to know them, and you know what happened when you got to know someone?
Well, to use a completely unrelated example, it was like dating. First, it was all honeymoon love (or just surface-level attraction, couldn’t rule that out) and positive vibes. Completely glandular on some levels. We like each other, we appreciate a new person, etcetera, etcetera. But then, inevitably, you saw the cracks.
They got on your nerves. You realized a certain [Druid] didn’t mind having filth in her home and excused it as ‘all-natural’ instead of just forgetting to pick things up. She claimed you couldn’t have a serious, heartfelt conversation. Then you fought or it worked out, but you saw a person’s faults and foibles.
Lots of people couldn’t handle that moment. They drifted from relationship to relationship, seeking the honeymoon period before the cracks showed, never quite understanding that what they were chasing was an illusion. ‘Everyone must be crazy, petty, gross, and stupid. It’s not me aiming for a perfect mannequin who doesn’t exist.’ Then they got so mad when you offered to make them said mannequin, even if it was 100% recycled parts.
…The point was this: Bowom rather liked seeing the cracks show. He enjoyed the moment when someone let him down, showed him the flaw behind the smile. Not because he liked being disappointed, but because it was real. It appealed to him in the same way truth did. Be it so unpleasant, he preferred it to the lie.
Ulvama’s flaws were that she was, at her very core, a [Shaman]. A social being, but differently social to Erin, if that made sense. Because they were fighting, the Battle Hamster was challenging Erin to a fight. Because they were fighting, half the Fraerlings in the city knew Erin was an armpit-shaming madwoman, and sometimes, people came to the concerts where she played to heckle and boo her.
Fascinating tactics. Erin, by contrast, wasn’t gossiping or cheery. She was what she was: visibly annoyed, depressed, and she shoved the Battle Hamster back when it went to jab her in the side.
“I said go away, Hamster. Zemmy, Mera, I don’t know if fighting is a good idea.”
“C’mon, we haven’t done it all week! Let’s, uh, just throw a few punches.”
Zemmy raised his scarred fists, and Mera nodded. [Brawlers] without a single social Skill. Bowom watched as they cajoled Erin into a fight. The second lovely thing about Zemmy and Mera, aside from their lack of domestic talents, was this: they were good fighters.
“[Wild Uppercut]!”
The first punch from Zemmy hit Erin completely off-guard after her slow swing. Bowom watched Erin go up…and then come down as the Battle Hamster glared from the side. Erin rolled over to the Corumdon Beetle. He kicked her in the back. She got up.
“Ow. Zemmy, I really don’t—”
“Coming at ya, Erin! Get ready or get hit!”
Flying knee from Mera. The [Innkeeper]’s head ground into the beetle’s side, and she twisted as Mera threw her sideways, and then Zemmy axe-kicked her on the shoulder. They began fighting for a second, and Erin stared at the sky.
“Ow.”
She sat up slowly, and the two [Brawlers] grinned. Mera made a beckoning gesture.
“We’ve been fighting magic ants with Eurise while you sat around and sang. Plus, we both levelled! Give us your best shot!”
“I like singing and dancing. You sure?”
They seemed to have forgotten what happened the last time Erin got mad, or perhaps they thought that was as mad as she got. Bowom chewed on more tension-toast as he checked his stitching. He’d done eighteen rows on his arm; not bad, but he could be faster. He undid the threads and pulled them out as Erin smiled.
“Okay. Didn’t I hear you two got toughness Skills?”
Zemmy flexed one arm with new scars.
“For the stupid ant-bites, yeah. You want to use weapons?”
Erin had pulled out a pair of kitchen knives. When he saw that, the Battle Hamster stopped edging around her for a sneak-attack. Zemmy and Mera didn’t flinch; they just grinned.
“Unless it’s enchanted, it’s not going to scratch us! Zemmy’s got [Rhino Beetle Skin], and I’ve got [Resistance: Piercing]. Let’s go.”
They beckoned, and the [Innkeeper] smiled again. Then she reached down to her belt and touched something.
“Almost ready. Hey, did you know there’s a bunch of new merch from the bands? Cool stuff. Your people can make anything. Even song crystals.”
Music began playing as the two [Brawlers] rolled their eyes and scoffed. Mera sneered.
“C’mon, Erin. That’s fun, but not action. Weird song, though. Aren’t most of yours more upbeat?”
As a matter of fact, for no particular reason, Erin had been teaching the bands more hard rock, and even what metalcore songs she knew—though it was mostly still close to pop-rock. Not that she knew much about music, but her [Perfect Recall] had let her dredge up songs she’d only heard once. Accordingly, there was a bit more black on some of the band’s makeup and in their hair.
This was still a fast enough beat, if slightly—ominous? The [Innkeeper] held the kitchen knives out as Zemmy and Mera circled her. Then she stared down at the ground and began hopping. Feet together, head slightly tilted.
What the heck? Zemmy nearly went in for a kick until he realized Erin was watching him out of the corner of her eyes. The music kept playing as her head rolled right, and Mera hesitated.
“C’mon, Erin. Take this seriously—”
The music was getting louder. Bowom saw the [Innkeeper]’s hopping continue with the beat, and her head was twisting around. She resembled a weirdly menacing scarecrow, actually. Bowom kept watching, then turned a light on inside. It was morning, but…
He watched as the hair on the Battle Hamster stood up until the rodent resembled a puffball, and it lowered its fists and began scampering away. The hopping [Innkeeper] was advancing on Zemmy. Smiling.
“Must be a magical dance.”
Bowom had never seen one of them used in combat before. Vrilla knew a few, mostly ritual-dances for [Druids]. He watched the [Innkeeper]’s limbs jerking as the song intensified. Then Zemmy croaked.
“H-hey, Erin. Uh—”
The [Brawler] had top-tier instincts for fighting. Erin shouldn’t have been able to get the drop on him even when she knew he was coming, but he only knew how to punch. He didn’t understand fear. It seemed to Bowom that Erin’s neck was twisting slightly further than her skeleton should have moved, but he could put that on a trick of light, along with her jumbled arms and the knives.
The low-light conditions she was generating meant that when she leapt at him, Zemmy was caught off-guard. He screamed, and Mera jumped in.
“Hey! I’ve got your back—gyaaaaaaaaaah!”
Erin’s head twisted around, and she changed targets. It wasn’t even a 180-degree twist. It probably just looked like that.
Bowom applauded inside the kitchen and watched for a few more seconds, but she wasn’t trying to gouge the [Brawler]’s eyes, and they did have defensive Skills. So he went to find Ulvama.
 
——
 
Erin was hard to talk to, which Eurise probably sensed.
Ulvama was easy to talk to. Having a conversation was just as hard. She hadn’t gone that far from Erin, actually. They were within eyeline of each other if either glanced over; Ulvama was sitting where a new park was being constructed—again, replacing this destroyed district. She was on a bench, and Matha was squirming.
“C’mon, Ulvama. Please…”
“Hush, you. Big performance tonight, right?”
“The Fourth Battle of the Bands, yeah, but—I’m not playing for any one band, I’m just MC-ing. They don’t need me and Erin anymore, and we’re letting her have the night off.”
“Even more important, then! The one who presents others must look best of all. The first thing they see should set expectations. You wanted me to show you my talents, didn’t you?”
“But—”
Matha was squirming, but Ulvama had a grip on her head, and she was painting bright colors onto the young [Raider]’s face, where her eyes met at the corners. And the corners of her cheeks…a little decorative tear was already running down Matha’s cheek, shimmering blue highlighted by a traced black outline.
It was certainly eye-catching. Ulvama would study different colors, then wipe it away and add some shading, adjust the color palette. Add that to the eyeshadow and other makeup she’d applied and Matha’s face sprang out at you.
Not garishly; Bowom was no expert, but it was quite impressive. He also noted the magic on the paint. Ulvama had restored much of her craft in Lemoste from Fraerling dyes, and the magical skin-paint was shimmering. When Matha spoke—
“Ulvama, I don’t need—whoa.”
Her voice took on a feeling of authority. Presence—a subtle reverb to her tone. Bowom wondered if it was approximate to a Level 15 [Aura of Command] or something similar. He had the distinct desire to boot Matha in the rear-end, but that was just his class running against the effect.
“Mm. Not bad. But maybe charm better? Or beauty. Hold on.”
The [Shaman] ignored the fighting and Zemmy and Mera shouting at Erin to ‘hold on’ and ‘stop biting’, then produced a little tin filled with carmine. Which came from lovely red beetles, but that didn’t stop anyone. She dabbed some on a finger and went to apply it to Matha’s lips.
This time, the Fraerling did get up.
“Ulvama, why don’t you help Erin with her makeup or something?”
“Erin? She’s fine.”
Ulvama glanced over and then tossed her head. She smiled as Matha fidgeted.
“Come on. I put this on and no Fraerling girls or boys will resist you.”
“I don’t need boys coming after me, and I’m great with flirting!”
“Oh, really?”
“Sure! These lips have kissed a lot of things. Tons of stuff they probably shouldn’t.”
Bowom snorted, and the two glanced at him. There it was, just for a second. Zinni’s granddaughter was no idiot, and she squirmed away, but Ulvama leaned over.
“Maybe you show me sometime? I’m good at kissing.”
The [Raider]-[Punk] went stiff as she gazed at Ulvama’s own lips. The Hobgoblin was smiling with all the mysterious allure she had, and as the only Goblin to ever visit Lemoste, at least Fraerling-sized…
Bowom waited with one of those happy smiles on his face that were like placeholders. Matha leaned forwards—then jerked back.
“I, uh—we have to get merch ready!”
She leapt off the bench, ran past Bowom, and glanced back over her shoulder. Three times—then she nearly fell over the guardrail and into the sewers again and was running off. Ulvama stared at Matha’s back, perplexed.
“Huh. I didn’t expect that.”
“Really?”
She jumped, saw Bowom watching her, then gave him a round-eyed expression of confusion. He gave her another smile that weirded her out, and then there was a scream.
A shriek. It sounded like a swamp-thing from nightmares, and the crescendoing music and the shouts of Zemmy and Mera coincided with Erin’s own scream. Ulvama flinched, and Bowom admired the cadences. For a second, Ulvama twisted around and stared back with a wretched expression at the angry, painful tone—then her features set. She leapt up as Zemmy and Mera surrendered, and Erin came to a halt, panting. The [Innkeeper]’s head turned their way.
“Bowom! Let’s go into the city! You promised we’d do something interesting! More studying? What this about your workshop?”
Ulvama glomped onto Bowom’s arm, and he beamed at her. He was most definitely a breasts man. And a butts-man. Whatever you could get in the most shapely form, really. He’d always thought two sets were fetching, but everyone he spoke to said the back pain wasn’t worth it.
“Splendid idea, Ulvama. We’ll be off in the city, then! Zemmy, Mera, see you this evening?”
He waved, and the two [Brawlers] hesitated.
“Wait, Bowom, we’ll go with—”
“No, no. I wouldn’t want to take you from your time here. I insist. Also, we’re going around my old place I used to keep, a library, and people who speak in words longer than four syllables. Absolutely unsuited for you two.”
“Hey.”
He and Ulvama strode off as Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, and Ulvama waved and managed to include everyone but Erin. After a moment, Erin turned away, and Ulvama’s arm tightened on Bowom’s shoulder—then she tickled him.
He didn’t laugh.
“Sorry, replacement skin. Didn’t connect it to the nerve endings.”
Ulvama stared at Bowom for a moment, but he was smiling. There was something hilarious about all this. You just had to see it.
 
——
 
Zemmy and Mera saw Erin turn back to them, and Mera lifted her hands. She had faint cut-lines on her skin, but Erin hadn’t done more than that. She was just…unnerving.
“Uh—good fight, Erin! But why don’t we just talk?”
“Yeah. And, uh, clean up? I bet the dishes are dry.”
Erin gazed at them, then twisted to look after Ulvama and Bowom. Then she sheathed her blades and exhaled.
“Fine.”
One glance at the two’s dishes and Erin instantly put them back in the sink. She began to clean, and Zemmy awkwardly dried. After the third time he tossed a dish onto the rack, trying to flip it, Erin stared at him, and he desisted.
Mera was reading from a little notecard as Zemmy shot her imploring looks in the long silence. They were trying to figure out a way into this conversation, much like someone trying to throw a punch past an impenetrable guard and not finding one.
It was Matha, damn Matha—whose fault this all was, obviously!—who came running into the house.
“Hey, Erin, there you are. Uh—like the makeup? Ulvama did it for me.”
You idiot! Mera swatted at Matha, who evaded nimbly, and glared back at her. Erin twisted her head.
“I saw. Magic?”
“Yes. Um…so. Big concert tonight.”
Fourth Battle of the Bands in a week meant it wasn’t that special, but Lemoste was in its honeymoon phase with the music, especially since the ant queens had been hunted down or were driven out of the area. Erin nodded.
“Did you want help? With the practice.”
“No, no, I’ve got this! You take time off. But, um…want to come by? We’ve got merch, and everyone wants to see you. No pressure.”
Matha scuffed a foot on the floor, and Erin paused, staring at a plate.
“Sure. I don’t have anything else to do.”
It seemed to Mera and Zemmy that the invitation was stupid and Matha shouldn’t have made it, but Matha just smiled and gave Erin two thumbs up.
“Great.”
Well, she was no help. Mera rolled her eyes and showed Zemmy the notecard. He edged over and shot Matha a ‘go away, dumbass’ glare. Then he addressed Erin.
“So, Erin. Nice fight. Uh, great moves with the knives. Where did that come from?”
“Dancing.”
They waited. Erin washed a dish, put it on the towel.
“Dead people. You can make a battle dance out of anything. It just takes refinement. Mastery.”
“Nice, so that’s like a combat attack?”
“No. If it were a magical dance, you’d know. Just scary.”
“Super scary. Mera nearly crapped herself.”
“You idiot, you’re the one with stains on your trousers—”
The two began to punch each other until they remembered the note. Zemmy glanced down, cleared his throat again.
“So, uh, Erin. ‘Would you like to talk about what’s going on between you and Ulvama?’ Like…how you two are fighting?”
Matha slapped her face with a hand. Mera hid the note behind her back as Erin’s head turned. Her voice was flat.
“We’ll talk it out, Zemmy. When she wants to. She doesn’t want to, yet. Garry’s alive, and that’s what was important, then. He levelled, he saved lives. No matter what she thinks—”
Clack. She put the plates together, then began to dry them. Mera hesitated, glanced at Zemmy.
“So, um…but if you two made up, that’d be great. Or you could beat each other up.”
“She’s not a [Brawler], Mera.”
“Hey, I heard she choked Matha out! She could probably throw a good punch with her magic.”
“No.”
Mera swallowed and glanced down at her note.
“Well…it’s sort of awkward with you two. So, um, if you two could talk, that’d be awesome. If we can help, let us know.”
“She doesn’t want to talk.”
Erin began putting the dried dishes away. Mera coughed.
“Well, yeah, but…maybe we can smooth it over? ‘Do you want to talk about anything you did wrong’?”
This time, Erin caught Mera reading the notecard. She walked sideways, one step, and then the side-kick caught Mera in the chest. The [Brawler] was dodging reflexively, but it still tossed her across the room.
Somehow, the door opened, and Mera went tumbling out and down the steps, cursing. Zemmy hesitated. Erin flipped a butter knife up, twirling it, and caught it by the knife’s dull blade. Which was less cool, but the look she gave Zemmy made him back up.
“Okay, maybe not. I’ll, uh—”
He hurried out of the room. Matha hesitated until Erin glanced at her.
“What’re you doing?”
“Oh—just taking the makeup off. I mean, it’s great. But…”
“Don’t do that. Ulvama worked hard on it.”
The [Innkeeper] caught Matha’s arm before she could scrub with the handtowel, and the Fraerling hesitated. She licked her unpainted lips, and Erin stared at them, then let go.
“I’ll see you at the band headquarters later.”
“Got it. Sorry.”
“For what?”
 
——
 
Matha exited the guest house as Mera and Zemmy squatted together. Mera was shaking her head.
“She’s so unreasonable. Did you see that?”
“Nice kick, though. She’s learning.”
“Yeah, I didn’t see it coming—”
They glanced up as Matha exited the building, and Mera shook a fist.
“Nice going, Matha. We’re trying to help, and you’re just fanning the flames.”
“Me? You? Help?”
Matha pointed at her chest, and Mera and Zemmy glared at her. The [Raider] threw up her hands.
“Great. I’d rather have the hamster on my side than you two!”
“Hey! We’re just trying to get Erin and Ulvama back to being best friends! You want to go, Matha? We’ll kick your butt without Zinni’s aphids!”
The two [Brawlers] got up, and Matha stared at them. Then back at Erin.
“Friends. They’re not—have you two ever fought like that?”
“What? Where we don’t talk to each other? I mean, we were feuding for a few months because Zemmy broke my front tooth one time, and we’ve had big fights, but they’re just being silly. But we always patched it up after we trashed each other. That’s the simplest way. Throw them in a ring and see who wins; both of ‘em will be right as rain afterwards.”
Mera wrinkled up her nose, and Matha eyed her.
“I…don’t think Erin and Ulvama brawling is going to fix things, Mera. If this gets bad, they might not be friends again. Maybe—and maybe that’s okay.”
They stared at her, genuinely aghast. Matha had done a lot of things, but this was like finding out she killed baby aphids. Zemmy blustered.
“You really are a bad person. Your class making you stupid, Matha?”
“No. I just think that whatever they’ve got won’t last forever.”
Now, both [Brawlers] were outraged.
“They’re the best! Like us! They fought through a war at sea together and made it here from the beach!”
Matha stared down at her feet and scrubbed at Ulvama’s paint again.
“Yeah. Like I said, I think it was doomed to fall apart. I just feel bad for doing my part. But I don’t think you get to put it back together. They tried that. I don’t know if even Bowom can stitch together this thing if it goes bad. But you guys keep doing whatever you were doing.”
For some reason…Mera and Zemmy felt uncomfortable at this. They shifted, eyed each other, and were uneasy. Mera glared.
“They’re going to get back to normal, you’ll see. It’s going to be just fine. That kind of relationship lasts forever.”
Zemmy nodded. Then he and Mera glanced at each other and away. They folded their arms in sync. The two famous [Brawlers] from their villages, Eurise’s disciples…and childhood friends who’d grown up next to each other.
For them, this was personal. They’d fallen in thick as thieves with Erin and Ulvama, but they weren’t [Thieves]. They didn’t get why the two were fighting and it bothered them, because…
Sometimes, Matha felt older than Zemmy and Mera, which was incredible to think because she was young and never wanted to be old. But they were just idiot kids. She grunted.
“This relationship lasts the exact opposite of forever.”
There it was again. She gave the two [Brawlers] the same look that older Fraerlings sometimes did, of amused curiosity. As if asking—how long will you keep lying to yourselves?
They weren’t used to that from their old arch-rival. So they chose violence. Mera made a grab for Matha’s shirt, growling.
“You’re talking awfully tall for someone who’s only here because she’s a nuisance to the villages, Matha. What do you know about any of this? It’s all your fault!”
Matha backed up a step, shaking her head.
“I messed up, yeah, but this wasn’t me. What do I know? I led the Cottontails for years. I’ve seen this before.”
I’ve…seen this before. She had to go after Erin. But now the two idiots were blocking her off. Zemmy sneered.
“The Cottontails? That’s just a bunch of idiot misfits living together and raiding real, hardworking Fraerlings.”
“Yep. Just a bunch of kids living together and growing up. Having to live together and fight together or the first big predator eats us without any Eurise to bail our group out. No knowledge whatsoever. Don’t mind me. I’ve gotta get ready for tonight, you guys.”
Matha walked off. Zemmy was searching around for a pebble to throw at Matha. He hucked it—not too hard, just enough to give her a bruise, but Eurise plucked it out of the air moments after it had left his hand. Mera jerked; Roja was standing right behind her.
“Hey, I thought you two were going hunting—”
Roja smacked the back of their heads.
“You idiots. Our turn, Eurise.”
She sighed as the [Explorer] folded his arms and stared up at the skies. Zemmy and Mera watched as they played rock-shield-wand to see who went in first. Suddenly and unaccountably nervous for Erin and Ulvama.
 
——
 
Ulvama kept flirting with Bowom as they walked through the city. And other Fraerlings too, but carefully. Not blatantly blowing kisses everywhere; she made sure they were single. It was subtler: a touch on the arm, a smile in the right place.
Someone who knew how it was done. Adults flirting rather than teens doing it for the first time. Sometimes, it was as obvious as it needed to be, but it stopped when they got to their destination.
Mostly because magic left little time for anything but concentration.
“Hup…hmm…aha! [Water Snake]!”
Ulvama managed to cast the shamanic magic after only eighteen minutes of working on it, which impressed Bowom. For a [Mage], that would have been the act of pure genius, to copy a spell she didn’t know.
But the little group of [Druids], [Mages], [Wild Mages], and yes, a single [Shaman] of their own informed him this was impressive, but not insane. They were willing to mince words with him despite his reputation because most weren’t actually locals, but had come from villages to assist with rebuilding and defending Lemoste. Plus, they liked Ulvama.
“[Shaman] magic isn’t all memorization and formulas like [Mage] magic, Mad Doctor.”
“I prefer ‘Madman’, Shaman Yiric. I didn’t know we had any [Shamans] around.”
The Fraerling [Shaman] shrugged; he had on a cloak of legs. Grasshopper legs, artfully stitched together. Some might call it creepy, but the legs seemed to give him the bounding power of a grasshopper; they flexed whenever he lowered his body.
“I just took it up when reading about it—you know how it goes. Only, I stuck with it. I had, what, fourteen friends who got the class? When I left to found Euc’s Rising, it was useful. Community-based Skills and magic. I’m not at her level, though.”
He indicated Ulvama, who was using the snake to attack a series of fire-based creatures from one of the [Summoners]. Said Fraerling woman was encouraging Ulvama.
“Now give it more power, Ulvama!”
“Trying…”
The Hobgoblin was sweating, and the simple snake made of flowing water rose higher as she called more liquid from a pool nearby. It developed green, banded stripes on its body, like a real snake’s, only made out of water, and the Fraerlings murmured in approval.
They were teaching Ulvama magic. Given they were staying here, it was one of the things Lemoste could offer of great use, even if their books on shamanic magic were few and far between. Hence the conclave of magic-users willing to share tricks with Ulvama.
Bowom was here purely to spectate, but that didn’t mean he was bored. It was the commentary he liked, and after nearly a week of practice, one of the [Alchimagi] commented softly.
“My, but she is quite talented, though. I heard Tallfolk weren’t much good with spellcasting, but Miss Ulvama has done tremendously despite the lack of spellbooks.”
Bowom knew Ulvama’s spellcasting abilities and raised his brows.
“Not to be the cat in the room here, but how is she talented, Alchimagus? I was neighbors with a [Wizard] who could cast spells two tiers higher than her, and he’s good, but not extraordinary among us.”
“Who? Gollesume? Is he still fighting with the [Armorer]?”
“Hasn’t stopped.”
They liked to gossip about Fraerlings they knew. After a few moments of chatting, the Alchimagus clarified his statement.
“What I mean is, she’s casting magic.”
“Right.”
“As a [Shaman].”
“Following your words and your meaning not at all, Alchimagus.”
“Doctor, she’s casting magic as a [Shaman] without a tribe. That’s the source of her powers!”
“Ahh.”
Now, it made sense to Bowom. The [Summoner] trooped back into the room as Ulvama rested, her enhanced Tier 4 snake circling her as she stared at it, eyes aglow with delight.
“Okay, next!”
A [Druid] traded off; their main advantage was that some of their spells overlapped with Ulvama’s. Finding out what spells Ulvama was allowed to cast as a [Shaman] so they could teach them to her was their goal. Bowom glanced at the others.
“How’s she casting if she’s got no tribe?”
Shaman Yiric scratched at one of the limbs in his leg-cloak.
“Well, she claims she’s got residual magic, but as far as we can tell? She’s using her mana reserves. A lot of her spellcasting is due to her magical training as a [Mage] and [Witch]. It’s very impressive. Someone gave her a thorough grounding in spellcraft.”
That was interesting, especially if it held up to Fraerling expectations. When Ulvama paused after trying to learn a new [Druid] spell, they brought it up to her, and she explained. A touch shyly, but she was safe here.
“Oh, that? I was part of the…Molten Stone tribe. You don’t know them. They’re very secret and in Izril.”
“Good magic-users?”
She nodded vigorously, face lighting up and then falling.
“The best. A Great Witch, Anazurhe, teaches them. She…she taught me, though I wasn’t finished with my training when I left. But I remembered and practiced. This is good practice. With all the tools, I can cast big magic again. Thank you.”
She patted her belt, and the Fraerlings nodded at her, but the [Summoner] waggled a wand at Ulvama.
“It’s the least we can do for a guest, young lady. But we don’t want to leave you merely ‘competent’. Competent gets you killed the first time a big animal decides it’s hungry enough. I’d rather keep you here until you can cast a Tier 6 spell within three seconds, but—ah, well. Is there anything we can do to prep you more?”
“Aside from more magic?”
“Tools? Catalysts? Spellcasting aids? I know you don’t need any, and you’d have to construct your own staff for maximum effect since we don’t have any artifacts made for [Shamans], here. What other magic did you learn in your tribe? I’d expect multiple disciplines, unless you only got to magical paint?”
Ulvama fidgeted, turning red, then realizing no one was judging her. So, shyly, she shook her head.
“I brew a bit. And I know medicines, some alchemy…um…oh! I used to train with pipes.”
Bowom’s first thought was music, but the [Mages] just eyed each other, and one of the [Grand Mages] fished around in a bag of holding, then handed Ulvama a pipe.
A smoking pipe. Bowom stared as Ulvama hunted around, and he offered her some tobacco leaves. She packed them in there, added a magical coal, and then blew out a stream of smoke.
“Er…I trained with pipes too, if anyone wants to give me one. I’ll take something fun.”
Bowom raised a hand and realized they were serious when one of the Fraerlings smirked at him. He blinked, and Ulvama muttered.
“Should be a longer pipe. But you do this, and then—aha!”
She blew a stream of smoke downwards, then twirled the pipe in her fingers. Instantly, the smoke began to revolve around the pipe, which cleared a space in the air. She halted the pipe, flicked the pointed end in her fingers, and the smoke whirled towards one of the [Mages]. The [Summoner] put up a barrier spell and coughed.
“Hak—argh! Smoke in my eyes!”
“Sorry.”
Ulvama lowered the pipe and nearly fumbled it, and the [Summoner] laughed.
“Not bad! Should we get you a long pipe, then? And a few magical things?”
“How long a pipe are we talking here? Yay big? Or down to one’s knees?”
The [Grand Mage] was measuring out an inch with his hands, and Ulvama grinned.
“Only a foot, maybe? Sorry, I mean inch? I once saw someone training with a super-long one, but it seemed stupid.”
“Stupid, but dead gods, imagine the looks if someone sees you lighting one up! Conversation-starter, that. I may just have one made as long as I am. Add in a little counterweight and featherweight spell and I’ve got my costume for the midsummer gala!”
Bowom kept waving his hand as the Fraerlings talked happily, and Ulvama turned to him, smiling genuinely for the first time this morning, he thought.
“Seriously? Pipe magic?”
She shrugged.
“Shamans learn all kinds. It’s [Mages] who have boring, straightforward magic. I used to train in this—a little bit. Everyone wanted to be Witch Anazurhe. But with a bit of smoke, you can make illusions…!”
Then her face fell. She stopped puffing excitedly on the pipe and lowered it.
“Eh, no. It won’t work.”
“Why not? Magic’s magic, and it seems like you know a few moves.”
The [Druid] kept coughing as she waved a hand in front of her face, but even she was supportive in the name of self-defense. Ulvama just handed the pipe back to the [Grand Mage] and stared at her shoes, excitement gone.
“Erin hates smoking.”
“That’s the young woman who’s been so objectionable? Phooey on what she thinks!”
But Ulvama’s interest was gone. Bowom decided their time was up for the day, so he thanked everyone—they were going off to get smoking pipes commissioned anyways. He jerked a thumb at the door, and they walked off.
 
——
 
“Where to now?”
“My old workshop. It’s condemned, and they used to promise to lock me away if I ever got near, but I bet they’ve stopped following me around. Everything’s preserved unless someone dispelled it all.”
Ulvama brightened up a bit when Bowom told her that. She followed him as they strolled down the streets.
“I didn’t know you lived here long.”
“Oh, I’ve got places in a lot of cities. Most are probably gone, but Lemoste used to like me. Emphasis on ‘used to’.”
“Until your patient, Mieve.”
“Yes. So, how are you doing with Erin? Going to stay in Lemoste forever? They’d let you, you know. It’s probably the safest place in the world for a Goblin.”
She froze up, and he strolled on until she ran after him and began poking him.
“Don’t joke.”
“Who says I am? If you want to—”
Ulvama raised her voice.
“I’m not staying! Even if—even if it’d be nice. Erin won’t stay in Lemoste. So, I have to leave, too. We’ll make up. Sometime. She’s—she’s focused on Garry. Stupid Garry. Brave, courageous, charitable Antinium. Just like always. And armpits.”
The Hobgoblin stomped on, and Bowom supposed he was her best friend, because she was venting to him. He felt so bad for her about that he held his tongue as she glared; she was in a very respectable camisole that maintained the dreaded proximity to bared armpits, but who cared?
Ulvama’s ears twitched.
“She doesn’t even understand how mean she was. She never thinks.”
“Mhm.”
“And she hurts herself. Maybe not herself, this time, but through Garry, she still puts her heart in front of a wagon.”
“Nasty, that. Crushing injuries are so much worse than cutting ones.”
“She made all the children yell at me. She has power. She can speak and, if she wanted, an entire city would take her side. Just like they love music. She’s the scary one, and she doesn’t think. If Erin ever…she could find me anywhere in the world. She says she can see her connection to people, even. Like pieces of string. If she wasn’t…Erin…she’d be terrifying. She could find you no matter where you hid and make everyone around you take her side.”
It was not cold, but the Hobgoblin shivered as if a wind were passing over her, and Bowom considered the idea.
“Anyone over Level 50 is so dangerous, though.”
“Yes. I know it, but she pretends she’s just Level 30 or Level 20. Until she gets mad. Like at Zemmy and Mera. It’s always Erin’s way or she’ll run you over and beat you down. Even when it’s nothing you’ve done wrong.”
Like armpits. If Bowom were a caring friend, he’d follow the through-line and add that. The unspoken words lingered until Ulvama sniffed.
“She spent an entire day in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. With him. If he died, she’d watch him die. That’s her madness. That’s why it’s hard, Bowom.”
They were walking through storage districts where Fraerlings were less abundant, and Bowom stared at the familiar streets untouched by the ant attacks given how far into the city they were. He nodded.
“That’s terrible you two are fighting over all of this and she doesn’t see it. Is any of it your fault?”
Ulvama halted, and her glare didn’t affect Bowom. He kept walking. She raised a finger to poke, and he raised a scalpel. The [Doctor]’s smile was that same one he’d worn this morning.
“Oh, wait. Am I supposed to be supportive? Let me try.”
He rubbed at where his spleen used to be, then pinched his skin and shrugged.
“No, wait. I’m out of supportive juice. Removed that organ.”
She stomped after him, clearly weighing the odds of kicking him in the rear, but she calculated correctly and, after a moment, rejoined him. Bowom pointed.
“Just to the left there. See that storehouse with the stairs going up?”
“Huh. Made of metal?”
“Well, I wasn’t going to get one made of wood. It rots. And stains. Hold on while I get the key. It’s under the mat.”
He lifted up the front doormat, and a key was stuck in the fibers of the rug. Ulvama snorted incredulously as Bowom stepped to one side and clicked it in the lock.
Instantly, a part of the metal door shot outwards directly at groin-height. Ulvama nearly leapt down the stairs. Bowom grinned.
“Now, the trick is…”
There was a little groove on the piece of punishing metal which he removed; it was virtually impossible to see. Bowom inserted the second key into a piece of the door and exposed a second keyhole, then replaced the little piece of metal. Instead of turning it, though, he pulled the first key out and clicked it into place there.
Ulvama’s eyes narrowed as she heard several clicks. Then she pointed.
“What happens if you take the second key and turn it by mistake?”
Bowom gave her an innocent look.
“Nothing. Well, except if you walk through the door. Looks like no one’s tried, if they even knew where the lab was, though.”
“How can you tell?”
He swung the door open, and they coughed as dust assailed them, but Bowom pointed at the floor.
“No soot marks. Home sweet home!”
He strode in, doing a twirl, and Ulvama’s red eyes glowed in the darkness as Bowom laughed. She halted in the doorway, because the [Mad Doctor] halted abruptly—and the racks of still objects swayed slightly in the sudden gust of air. He smiled at her.
“I am a [Mad Doctor], Ulvama. Sometimes, I go quite, quite mad. You saw what I did to my patient. I had every right. She gave me her consent. We were being hunted down and eaten, and the Tallguard were dead. Because she cut a hole through every part of the carnivorous locust swarm, sixty-three Fraerlings lived. But the Architects who ruled on my case in this city said that right did not morality make. I agreed. But I never apologized. I don’t think I ever will.”
 
——
 
A storage warehouse in the least-populated district in Lemoste. A hidden, magically trapped laboratory where no one knew where they’d gone.
Perhaps it had just occurred to Ulvama that if you wanted to take someone somewhere where no one would find you, or hear you crying out for help, it would be here.
She did not step through the door at first as Bowom smiled. The racks swung, and what they held was very clear. He knew the Hobgoblin could see it.
Bodies. Cadavars, if you wanted to get technical. Each one was carefully preserved with both spell and science, and they were, well…justifiable.
If Geneva Scala had seen Bowom’s laboratory, it would not have given her great pause, which in and of itself, might be concerning. But it was just…research.
After all, how could you know a body without seeing it? That was why the cadavers hung, flesh and organs dyed so you could see how tendons and veins were supposed to flow. Same with the brains. They had to be cross-sectioned, and Bowom had forgotten to stack them up properly.
The other organs were just spares, floating in liquids that kept them stable and from drying out. He had eyes of multiple species. Not just Fraerlings in here.
Sliding glass displays of a torso. Skeletons—you had to have a skeleton hanging up, didn’t you? Erin would have said that. Only, what would she say to an actual skeleton? Geneva might have said that this resembled a classroom from her world, where they did the same thing for medical students.
But Bowom had come up with this on his own. When he smiled and the light coming in from the one-way windows caught him just so, standing there with his roach leg amidst the bodies of his own people…well.
He wasn’t laughing. And he was slightly disappointed when Ulvama closed the door and walked inside. The [Mad Doctor] scuffed a foot on the ground.
“Damn. Have I lost it?”
“No. You’re very scary. Eh…these bodies all from dead patients? Or did you steal them? I don’t think Fraerlings would give you bodies.”
“Ah, you’d be surprised! You get to talking to some folks and they’re quite happy to leave you their bodies. But yes, a few gravediggings—not many patients. I do try to keep them alive, you know. I haven’t been here since Mieve. Hah. Look at that. I wasn’t even finished with this leg upgrade for the one I’ve got. Still preserved. That’s quality work right there. I should endorse the [Enchanter] who did it for me.”
Ulvama glanced down at the insect leg that looked more grasshopper-ish than roach. Bowom had sliced it open, and a strand of too-bright muscle was being sutured in. She raised her brows.
“Galas muscle?”
Bowom sat down and absently ran his fingers over the leg. Picked up a needle, began stitching, then stopped. He smiled up at her, face alight with passion. And guilt.
“Hard as heck to get, even in the cities. Mind you, I kept a travel-bag of parts with me, so Mieve…I put everything I had into her. Fantastic work. Beautiful. She killed the locusts faster than I could dream. I just—didn’t think she’d make it. I can’t give her body back.”
Ulvama sat down at the table, and she realized something.
Oh. Bowom. She’d been fighting with Erin so long she’d neglected him. His encounter with Mieve…she stared down at her fingers, embarrassed.
“Why not, Bowom? It, eh, it’s not as easy as putting a head on another body, I know—”
“What? No, it is that easy. First thing I ever did. [Necromancers] do it all the time, those hacks. Not that they need to do more than get it mostly right and let the death magic work.”
She opened her mouth, and Bowom gestured.
“The fiddly bits are the spine and nerves. Get one thing wrong without a corrective Skill or treatment and there’s glitches. But I didn’t do that for Mieve. Putting a head on another body is just a [Sawbones]’s job, or a [Stitch Doctor]. Dead gods, Stitch-folk can do it. It’s risky, hard, but that’s the realm of Level 30, Level 20 if you’re actually good at what you do. But what is that in the end?”
“…New body? Sounds nice.”
Ulvama was trying to keep up, focusing on Bowom because Erin hurt her heart. The [Mad Doctor] prattled on for a bit.
“Yes, but it’s just a body. And okay, let’s say you do the groundwork. Get a body, pump it full of Galas-muscle, make sure each part is connected. Then you’ve got, what? A Draugr-equivalent when some absolute toad-licking [Necromancer] finds a pile of corpses and gets one in three days with minimal effort.”
“Hmm. But your patient is living.”
“Not living their best life!”
Bowom slammed a fist on the metal table, and the leg twitched. He grinned up at her as his glasses slipped askew.
“Besides, that’s so mundane. So banal! Fraerlings, Humans—we don’t have the best bodies. But what if you gave them the best qualities of other species? The speed of a cockroach. Wings! Bones that won’t break, or the spine of—the problem is that the mind can’t use it.”
He tapped his head.
“The brain is our weak spot. It can’t…process a lot of the new limbs. Oh, it can adapt. Wonderful things, brains. But to make it sync up, much less to a rush job, I had to…”
“No.”
Ulvama’s heart sank. Bowom was giggling, but he stopped. Went silent.
“I was careful. I figured out where everything went. Motor skills do link up in one section of the brain, mostly. I couldn’t have made what I called the ‘impeller-brain’ without Skills. Just pieces spliced together from each creature. But that’s the thing about brains. They adapt. They grow, even if you give them the wrong pieces. Give her a regular body and it won’t work again. Worse…I was too good at my job.”
He peered around aimlessly.
“Are there any—? No, I didn’t come back here. There are some wonderful, amazing images of her mind that they showed me. Her brain’s overgrown the new segment. If I cut it out, I’m pretty sure I take something else with it. Amazing she lived, really. She shouldn’t have. I gave her three hours tops. She counterlevelled. I never account for that. Madness. I shouldn’t have given her part of a Creler’s brain.”
“You what?”
“I washed it! Entire thing’s poisonous. But I cleared it, and it was the only way. They’ve got strong psychic…it’s the only brain that can adjust to malleable limbs like that. Turns out it did its job too well. No way back for Mieve.”
Bowom finished his explanations and sat back. Limbs hanging on the walls, experimental digits, eyes—and Ulvama thought it was scary.
Scary, and yet, if he had been in any Goblin tribe, how many wounded warriors would have lined up for a limb he could give them? She stood here, and despite him trying to scare her, she didn’t think she was in danger.
A monster didn’t stop or ask if he was wrong.
He was no Tremborag.
“So that’s why you left?”
Bowom gestured around vaguely as he finished stitching the leg up and began closing the skin. The smell of preservatives and dead flesh hung around him as his fingers moved as beautifully as Honored Deskie at her work.
“No mirrors in here. I packed it up, went somewhere I could think, and I was so miserable I was going mad. I figured I’d find another way or go back to it and not feel guilty again. Instead, I came back before my metamorphosis was completed. But enough about me! Tell me how awful Erin is!”
He swivelled around, resting his arms on the chair’s back and giving her his most twinkle-eyed look of attention. Ulvama found a chair and sat down. When she spoke, it was to her hands. She’d painted her fingernails, and she inspected them before meeting his eyes.
“I’m sorry, Bowom. Erin is…complex. She’s the only person from home. I have to help her, but she hurts herself. Again and again. What am I supposed to do?”
He closed his eyes as he sat back in his chair.
“Eurise was much the same in his day. He was asleep when she got here, and there’s nothing wrong with that. But now? What to do with Erin? If I were you, my class says: put her back together. Again and again. Better and better. Until death itself stands at my mercy. What does yours say?”
No one had ever asked her that. She shivered, then closed her eyes. Ulvama listened, then shook her head, despairing.
“A [Shaman] needs a tribe. She needs a [Chieftain]—but Erin doesn’t want to be one. Rags doesn’t need or want me. I am strong in some ways, but she passes me. She has lived for almost two years in this world. And she is past my levels. She will continue. When she is Level 60? I will only be useful as the voice in her ear, and that’s if I even know what to say.”
She paused, then gazed at her feet. Her toes wiggled in their sandals, and she gave Bowom the saddest smile he’d ever seen a Goblin wear.
“But that’s okay. Because she’s a kind person. The trick is, you find a kind person. So even when they realize you’re useless, they don’t get rid of you. She’ll forgive me. And I’ll have a place at her inn, if she lives.”
The [Mad Doctor] was hunting around for something on his workbenches.
“Hold on, I’ve got…no, there’s no paper fans here. Someone taught me how to make them. Here, this’ll do.”
He brought down the metal tray on Ulvama’s head with a rather loud bang, and she screeched and swung at him. Bowom dodged and sat back in his chair.
“That’s not what I asked, Ulvama. This is all larger than your fight.”
She sat up and puffed out her cheeks.
“No, it’s not! It’s the Garry problem! It’s what she does—”
“I distinctly recall armpits being part of that.”
Ulvama hesitated, then turned her head, blushing.
“That’s just her being stubborn and prudish.”
“Uh huh.”
“She’s thoughtless.”
“More than not, when it comes to you. Strange for such a perceptive young woman. Did you know she once told me that she can read everyone except Eurise and Zinni like books? But you’re closed to her?”
The Hobgoblin’s head rose, and her eyes widened.
“She can’t? But I thought—sometimes she can.”
“Not anything but the big things, she claims.”
“Oh. Then maybe she didn’t know. And she got the children because—”
Bowom sneezed into a handkerchief.
“Damn dust. It’s still an incredibly crass move to have children shaming someone like that.”
“Yes, but she doesn’t know her aura.”
“Is that an excuse? If I go around swinging a Skill and hurt someone, that’s still a crime.”
“True…”
Wait, why was she defending Erin? The Hobgoblin got angry again, but Bowom was staring up at the ceiling.
“I’m going to get some tools here, and I need to put together some old files. But after this, Ulvama…”
“I’ll talk to Erin.”
He shook his head absently.
“No. I don’t really fancy doing this on the road or the next city we come to. I’m not hearing you confront the real thing at the heart of this. I’m honestly not sure if Eurise or Roja will bring it up; it’s not really their forte. He can barely hold down a relationship with his hair these days. Too high-level. Seen too much. Roja thought she could keep up with Eurise, but they broke it off after four months. Nearly killed her.”
Ulvama had gone still. She breathed in, coughed on the dust.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Oh, absolutely. And I suppose I’m busy here for another week.”
The Hobgoblin’s cheeks were heating up.
“I—what am I supposed to do? She doesn’t know anything! She’s an idiot!”
“Well, if you don’t know what you want from her, then you’re both blind. I could replace your eyeballs, but I don’t know if I can improve on your looks. Crimson eyes and that wonderful hazel stare…that’s a hard admission for me, you know. I’m great with eyeballs.”
The [Mad Doctor] waited as Ulvama sat there, flushed to the tips of her ears in his dark laboratory. There was a reason he’d chosen Ulvama. He wasn’t actually that empathetic a fellow. With her, all he had to do was point it out and hope.
Did she have an answer? After a while, Ulvama looked at something she’d been given before leaving her training session.
The smoking pipe. She played with it in her hands.
“Erin had a pipe like this. I forgot…she played with it all the time.”
“Didn’t you say she hated smoking? Or was it that pretentious thing you do where you never light it? Because I will start disliking her if that’s the case. Say it isn’t so.”
Ulvama ducked her head, grinning toothily.
“No. She blew bubbles.”
“Hah!”
Bowom laughed in genuine surprise, and Ulvama raised the pipe to her lips. She blew a single bubble of magic into the air and watched it fall.
“Oh…maybe it is me. I think I know what I have to do, Bowom. I have to ask…me…what I want. I didn’t want to, but maybe—”
The [Shaman]’s eyes lifted, and her gaze shone with magic as she recalled the last of her powers that she had to her, even isolated from her tribe in Izril. Bowom smiled encouragingly.
“Good. But can you give me thirty, no, forty minutes? And I really could use some hands finding all the stuff I need.”
She glared at him, and he raised his hands.
“What? You didn’t think this was all heartfelt self-revelations? Please. No one else would come with me, and I’m fairly sure Mera and Zemmy can barely read.”
She got up, and suddenly, they were in a hurry. Bowom began listing things they needed, and Ulvama protested.
“I need things too! We need to go back to my friends. I need more supplies.”
“Like what? There’s that big Battle of the Bands tonight. Good time?”
“So soon? Eh—maybe! But first, I need, um, Dreamleaf!”
He twisted around, and Ulvama protested.
“No, seriously! It’s useful! I promise! This isn’t a joke! I’m not Palt!”
He just rolled his eyes as he went back to hunting for supplies.
“[Shamans].”
Such a silly class.
 
——
 
As Ulvama prepared for legitimate shamanic magic, Erin Solstice sat, staring into blue flames in the guest house. She didn’t look up even when the snowflakes started to fall.
Bowom was doing his best. What, exactly, that meant was only something he knew. But other people were making an attempt as well.
Not Mera and Zemmy, though they were watching through a window uneasily. Instead, a Fraerling caught a snowflake on his hand, and it melted as Eurise sat down.
“Even now, sometimes you envy other classes. All I can do is put a hole in things. Not mend them. Not make fire.”
She jerked and peered up at him. The blue fire went out, and Erin glanced around.
“I’m hurting the house. Sorry. It’ll get mildewy.”
“Eh. Mind if I sit?”
She nodded, and Eurise sat down. Awkwardly. He glanced over his shoulder, and he was a direct man. Someone she trusted. But—he crossed one leg, cleared his throat, then came out with it. A [Scarred Wyldbeast] going for the kill. He had a past longer than even Bowom’s, and it was reflected in his cautious expression.
But she had lived a life as stressful as his, and they respected that about each other because they saw it. So Eurise spoke.
“Listen. I don’t know much about relationships or love, but if you wanted to talk it out…”
She glanced up at him, genuine surprise written on her features.
“Love? I thought you were talking about Ulvama. Or—is this about Matha? I’m sorry I kicked her, I am. And she’s not bothering me anymore.”
The white-haired Fraerling [Explorer] stared directly into Erin’s eyes. She blinked quizzically, and he slapped his knees and stood up.
“Right, I’m out. Your turn.”
He walked towards the door, yanked Roja out of hiding, and shut it as she cursed at him. The other [Explorer] threw up her hands.
“Eurise—!”
She saw Erin frowning at her and stomped over.
“Okay, let’s go for a walk.”
Erin got up willingly enough, and Roja clomped down the street as she glared at Mera and Zemmy; Eurise had just leapt onto the roof of the house where he was watching them from afar. Roja chewed over what to say.
“Listen, you and Ulvama need to make up. I don’t really get the entire situation, Erin, and I don’t need to. You two are great friends, and you’ve been through a lot. This? This is silly.”
Mera and Zemmy nodded along with Erin as the two [Brawlers] shadowed the two.
“Absolutely. A lot of it’s my fault.”
“Great. Good you understand it! This entire thing with, uh, armpits?”
“That was Matha. I didn’t like it, and I shamed Ulvama. Which was wrong.”
“Matha. I knew she had something to do with—and it’s complicated by your friend. You can hash it out with her. Go on a walk or something, and just air your feelings. Then we can get on the road. Maybe it takes a few hours of serious talking, but you two are grown women. Tonight, after the concert? That work out?”
Roja was hopeful, and Erin stared ahead.
“…I don’t know, Roja. She and I disagreed about Garry. On something bigger than just—the armpits thing was bad. But it made me realize that what Ulvama wants, what she thinks I am, isn’t what I do. She thinks I’m like a Chieftain. Like my inn is a tribe. I think…I think I can’t just ask for forgiveness and move on. She’s wrong. I think she’s wrong, at least, and until one of us says the right thing, we’re stuck. I just—don’t know. I don’t think I’m wrong.”
And that was terrible, because she knew she was. Just not which part. But not Garry’s decision. Never that. Roja scowled. She put a hand on Erin’s shoulder.
“Listen, Erin. Like I said, I don’t know about this Garry, uh, Antinium, but I heard enough. Just say she had a point. Give a bit, and—”
“No. She was wrong on that, Roja. What she told me was wrong.”
“Then what you accused her of. Something about a Trem—Tremborat…?”
“Tremborag. It was cruel of me, but we needed to talk about it. We need to talk about it. That’s not it. It’s something else.”
She kept reaching for it, but it kept…and there were always distractions. Like Ulvama flirting with Matha. Which Erin knew was to annoy her, but she couldn’t think.
Something—this time, Roja was the one who swung Erin around.
“Now you’re being unreasonable. Listen, we’ve been cooling our heels here for a week. Just compromise, Erin. This isn’t about you—”
“Roja, I appreciate the pep talk, but I’m serious. Neither of those things is wrong. I’ll explain it as best I can, but I’m not budging on those. Not Garry. Not Tremborag.”
Roja might have been the wrong person after all. Zemmy and Mera had been getting encouraged, but now they saw Roja do what Roja did when she got lip from a younger [Explorer]. She put one arm around Erin’s shoulder and began to drag her back to the guest house.
“Okay, I am going to have you sit for a second. You’ve been taking your temper out on Zemmy and Mera. But you’re as stubborn as one of Zinni’s aphid bulls.”
Erin’s face went blank.
“Hey, Roja? I am stubborn. But you’re not helping, buddy. I think I can figure this out if someone leaves me alone for two seconds. Or I talk to Garry, maybe.”
Roja’s grip tightened as Erin tried to break free, and the [Innkeeper] was weaker, despite the level differences.
“I think leaving you alone is what everyone’s been doing when you need someone to be honest with you. You had everyone worried, and Ulvama was in a panic that day you vanished. That’s not considerate.”
The [Innkeeper] flinched, a true expression of shame and regret—and cold necessity. That was what took the two [Brawlers]’ breaths away. What Eurise saw. Roja was just staring at the house and didn’t see Erin glance up.
“I know. But, pal? I don’t think you get who Garry is to me. If Ulvama and I cannot resolve this, and he is part of it—perhaps she should stay here.”
Roja halted, and Erin went on.
“I’ve heard you talking about it. She likes this place.”
“You don’t mean that. Stop speaking like a child.”
The older Fraerling woman buffeted Erin’s arm, hard, then grabbed her. Erin was standing her ground now, feet dragging on the street. Tearing up cobblestones.
“I do. It hurts to think about, but if she treats me like a Chieftain—sometimes, things break, Roja. She’s a friend. My best friend, but something is wrong, and sometimes…I would rather her stay here and not see her again then have her be like Numbtongue. Numbtongue. Why did I think of him?”
Zemmy and Mera halted in horror. No, Mera wore that look of horror, of abstract dread. Zemmy’s eyes were on his friend, and—their hearts were beating faster. Something terrifying was following Erin, and it was not her aura. They saw it, and Erin caught a glimpse of the idea circling her head too.
There it was just for a second. It flickered, and then Roja put Erin in a headlock.
“That’s it. Get inside and sit your ass down.”
“Hey, guy. Gal. I really think you should let go.”
At last, the Fraerling woman halted and frowned down at the [Innkeeper] whose head was locked under one armpit.
“What’s with the naming trick? Listen, Erin, you are going to sit and—”
Erin was struggling to get free of Roja’s headlock, but the [Explorer] had both height and more experience and strength. So Erin’s reddening face didn’t actually get free until Roja shouted and let go.
“Eagh! What the—”
She rubbed at her armpit, and Erin spat and wiped her tongue on her arm.
“Bleh. Gross. Matha’s insane.”
“Stop kidding around and—”
Erin threw a punch.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
“[Deflect Blow]. Don’t do this, Erin. Because I will—”
Roja shoved the Skill aside, reaching for Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s feet shifted. She stepped, gracefully, in a pattern to the right and spoke.
“[Rhythm Combo]. [Minotaur Punch].”
One, two, three, four, five, six—Roja dodged the fast swings, swearing, eyes wide. Mera’s jaw dropped. Erin could throw six—?
The last hit Roja’s crossed arms, and the woman skidded across the ground. Stumbling. Erin saw her tense to leap. She reached up, and her witch’s hat flared.
“[Playful Radiant Fishies].”
Roja’s leap took her off her feet, but the [Explorer] was distracted from Erin, slashing at the attacking, glowing fishes. She cursed.
“[Explorer’s Art: Barrier of Cuts]!”
The attacking swarm of spells vanished as she created a whirling dome of blades that cut the attack magic down. Then she swirled and hesitated. She stabbed Erin’s arm, but she didn’t even cut the [Innkeeper]’s [Reinforced Structure]. Erin rushed Roja towards the guardrail as the [Explorer] kicked at her, but Erin didn’t let go until the drop. Then, as Roja tensed, Erin spoke.
“[Apista’s Jetflame].”
“[Aerial Backf—] huh?”
Mera and Zemmy saw a green flash. Then they heard Roja screaming. Eurise tilted his head back as a Fraerling woman flew past his head. Roja spun through the air, and Fraerlings looked up as the woman soared across the city of Lemoste.
Erin dusted her hands after shading her eyes to watch Roja hit the far wall of Lemoste then furiously begin swimming out of the water barrier. She’d thought Fraerlings were probably pretty easy to toss like that. She spat and rubbed her tongue on her arm again, then glanced up at Eurise.
“I just need a few hours to think. And maybe to talk to Garry, okay?”
He nodded. Erin went back to thinking. Mera and Zemmy eyed each other. They peered at the door to the guest house as Erin opened it and went inside. Then, after some whispering, they ran off to find Roja.
And Erin wondered what Garry was doing as she tried to focus.
 
 
Garry – Book
That evening, Garry begged the Free Queen for a favor. Which was to not send him to the Hivelands right away.
“One day, Free Queen. One day for me to work on offerings for each Queen.”
She peered at him from her Throne of Fluff as she wrote notes on a huge pad of paper. The smells of toxic alchemy clung to her, and he knew she was creating new life.
Perhaps killing it if she could not create what she deemed important. Mostly, ways to improve her Antinium without needing to kill them or make new batches.
She had given Soldiers voices, and so she was changing. Gone were the days when he was the scared little [Cook] making her food and she was the unknowable giant.
But perhaps he had made a mistake. For she granted his request with the wave of one of her feelers.
“You have a day. The Grand Queen shall not object if the tunnel to the Hivelands needs reclearing after a monster breach.”
She paused, then added.
“…Or she should not, if she were reasonable. You have your day, regardless.”
He bowed.
“Thank you, my Queen.”
He had much to do. The other Antinium…he had nothing to give them. Not even bread; he was out. Garry was striding away when the Free Queen added slyly.
“You did not ask me what the other Queens enjoy, Garry. Strange. You must have mastered the Unitasis Network.”
The [Baker] stopped and turned.
“Ah—I—”
“Go. It seems to me that your levels are a result of your freedom, Garry the Baker. You shall ask me when you need something from me. The highest-levelled Antinium in the Free Hive is one to learn from, not curtail.”
He bowed, startled, and the Free Queen sat alone after that, except for maybe a happy buzzing sound. That came from Pisca and Runel, her dedicated [Cooks]. The Free Queen added to herself.
“This, perhaps, is rulership. But the Grand Queen is a fool if she thinks she learns it from other species. The Queens of Rhir deferred to Centenium and their Prognugators. Pisca! I require food!”
She clapped her feelers together and waited. Like an indulgent [King] waiting for a worthy subject to entertain him. Sometimes, all one had to do was wait to see splendor and know when to applaud. Plus, Xevccha added in her head—she had her own wellbeing to think of.
If she and Garry came to odds, Pisca and Runel would stop making her delicious things to eat.
 
——
 
Mind you, it was all very well for the Free Queen to send Garry off to work more of his giving wonders. She didn’t have to come up with said wonders.
Garry strode back to his kitchens and stared at his pantries. He had…fourteen cartons full of eggnog from his magical pantry Skill today.
“What.”
He normally did not question his powerful Skills that let him give out free, magical presents or delivered him with ingredients, but eggnog? Garry tasted some.
“…Pumpkin?”
It was the most useless ingredient he’d ever been given. Oh, sure, it was tasty, and it’d be a hit with everyone. He’d give it out to all his regular clients, trade Imani a carton for some of her Earth-only ingredients, or he could swap it with Calescent, again, for more food.
But it was not going to feed a million Antinium in the Hivelands. Garry shoved the eggnog onto the counter and rang a bell.
“Runel. Give the Free Queen her cut, then swap this for something useful.”
The Flying Antinium took the eggnog happily as he sorted through his pantry. Sometimes, it had themed foods! Or something nice. He just needed inspiration. What could you feed that many Antinium with?
Nothing but water. Not even flour. Not even if I did mini-pancakes and gave one each. Flavored water? Behind a bag of Ashwheat Flour, he found…
Fifty-six candy canes. Garry stared at the candy canes.
This time, Runel had to do a flying leap to save them from being hucked at a wall. She spoke.
“What iz wrong, Garry?”
“I don’t have anything to give the Antinium. My people. Our people, Runel.”
Garry sat with his head in his hands.
“What a fool I’ve been. For all I spoke of how other species literally starved and how we had been fed—there are so many who are like we were. Alone. Lightless. Now, I am going there with nothing.”
She shuffled closer, patting him on the back with one of her claws.
“Not nothingz, Garry. You can bring stories. Give cooking to them.”
“I can never feed a Hive. Not even my own.”
Bitterly, Garry thought of the Workers and Soldiers who were not [Crusaders], Painted Antinium, or anything else. No wonder they would volunteer to fight and die in Liscor’s wars.
That, at least, was preferable to living in the Hive. A system which encouraged people to become soldiers because it was more pleasant than living…
Ah, there is my philosophy. But I cannot fix it yet. But I must. Garry felt a soft object resting on his shoulders; Runel’s wing. He turned to her.
“What can I give them, Runel?”
“You gave uz homes. Not being dizzected. Food. Love iz enough.”
Garry laughed and patted her on the head.
“If only I could share that like bread, Runel. If only…”
His head was roaming the kitchen and home he had built, searching for inspiration, when his own words seemed to echo back to him. Garry’s eyes alit on something few Antinium, even here, possessed.
“Wait. That’s it. There’s something I can make that is cheaper than water and Antinium may need. Something I can create.”
He leapt up as the idea hit him. Runel stared around the kitchen.
“Of courze. Air. Flavored air.”
Garry spun and pointed at her.
“Y—wait, no. Er, no.”
“Oh. What iz?”
He was striding around, grabbing objects off the shelves, stacking them up. And Garry remembered an [Innkeeper] whose song had saved a hurt Antinium.
“Ideas, Runel. Music. I need you to buy song crystals for me, all you can find. But not just that. This.”
He shook it at her and spoke. Again, becoming the first Antinium of his kind.
“Books. Stories.”
Runel’s mandibles opened as she realized what he meant.
“Right. There iz hundredz of pages in each book. Plenty to eat.”
The [Baker] stared at her and thought he might have more of a problem than he thought.
 
——
 
Antinium couldn’t read.
Or to be more precise, Workers could read Drake script in Liscor just well enough to get around. And that was more pattern recognition of certain streets than anything else.
But reading, as in solid sit-down-and-read reading? Now that Garry thought about it, he wasn’t sure how many Antinium could read in the entire Hive. Antinium got basic words imprinted on their minds at creation and could thus talk if they were Workers or newer Soldiers and read basic things, but not read and understand advanced concepts. They had to teach themselves that.
Pawn could read, because he was writing his Book of the Sky or whatever he called it. Belgrade and Anand had needed to in order to take over the Hive’s duties and act as [Strategists]. But as Garry conducted a quick census—
“Excuse me, have you ever read a book?”
An Antinium with flowers on her shell turned to the person who’d asked. She stared up at Garry.
“No. You’re tall.”
Garry walked over to a [Templar] trying to play billiards with some off-duty [Crusaders]. Another tap on the shoulder.
“You, do you read books?”
“I would like free bread. Also, no.”
“I see. Excuse me, sir. Do you read?”
A city-Ant with a tophat and coat was jingling a bag of copper coins at a table where he was gambling. He whirled and glared at Garry.
“Who’s asking? Do you read? What business of it is yours, buddy? Whoa, don’t come at me just because you’re big!”
—Most Antinium didn’t read, even if they could. And those were Painted Antinium he’d asked. So, Garry’s problem encountered a hitch, but only a minor one. He knew the Painted Antinium had picture books, and a few admitted that, yes, they’d taught themselves or just read the books for the pictures.
“A picture book, then. Something that can be printed and spread around the Hive. And…an Antinium who can read could read it to others.”
It was all about scalability. Nothing was so transmissible as an idea, and books could contain a story and be reasonably copied and spread. That was how Garry knew he had to write a book.
You see, he didn’t come at the idea from the desire to write a fascinating tale, but from the need to give the Antinium, who had nothing, something. It was certainly a good motivation to gather the supplies he needed in a rush of energy.
Quill? Check. Inkpot? Check. Parchment and paper? The kind people at the Scribe’s Guild had given it to him for free. Check! Also, send them some nice bread…
That evening, Garry was sitting at a desk he normally reserved for accounting or writing ingredient lists. He had a scrying orb on, just to check the news, and he wetted the quill, ready to bring a book to life.
The scrying orb had switched from more broadcasts of food being delivered to some evening news. At the moment, it was of Archmage Valeterisa wearing her most commercial smile.
“Hello. I would like to announce a new service being rolled out by select [Mages]. For a long time, the [Restoration] spell has been considered lost magic. However, I am pleased—so pleased, smile here—to announce that I have rediscovered and taught others the spell. Apprentice, please stab yourself with a knife.”
“You can’t do this! You—you—”
The Healer of Tenbault was screaming in the background. Garry watched, craning his neck to see any Goblins, but they appeared to be out-of-frame as Drassi excitedly commentated.
“How wonderful. Ah. Tessa does not appear to be looking well.”
He wondered if the Scaethen Bread would help with her drug addiction. Probably not; he still wasn’t clear what the rules were. After a few minutes of watching Archmage Valeterisa try to get a volunteer to be stabbed with a knife, Garry jerked.
“Right. Writing.”
He turned back to the page. Lifted his quill. Then he turned his head.
“Oh, so that’s Crowdcaller Merdon. Didn’t I hear he could fly or something?”
Compared to Elia Arcsinger, he seemed quite…nervous. Then again, anyone faced up against Lyonette might be. Garry kept watching and then shook himself.
“I have to write this.”
He had only one day. Plenty of time to write a book containing all the love and things Antinium needed. Garry turned the scrying orb off and scratched his chin while the other one arranged the paper and the quill-holding hand poised to write. He was really hoping his fourth hand returned soon; kneading one-handed was tough.
He was able to read. Surely, writing was possible. He wrote lists all the time. How hard could this be?
Garry stared at the parchment. After a moment, he began drawing straight lines, so he could write his words very neatly whenever they came to him. Then he reached for a book.
“Inspiration is often imitation. How could I make pasta before I ate Erin’s pasta, which she sometimes forgot to even butter? Let’s see how this one starts…ah, ‘the default nature of monarchy is headlessness. The states whereby they exist unto this moment are transitory, an inevitable procession unto their final form. Monarchy is not a system that succeeds or fails on its own merits, but a delayed conclusion before the axe falls’.”
He paused, then turned the book over.
“Ah, this one is written by Queen Merindue. Perhaps a lighter book.”
 
——
 
Fifty minutes later, Garry was staring at a bunch of books the Painted Antinium had in their barracks and a few more he’d had Runel and Pisca run out to purchase. He tried to write.
‘There once was a cute, fluffy, and extremely lovable dog.’
It was easy to write that. He made the ‘T’ at the start curly like they did in the book and tried to project the warmth and emotion that he could feel in some stories into the text. The excitement, the passion.
He could feel Merindue’s contempt, her seething rage at the world in her words. He could remember Erin Solstice’s embrace, recall the first moment he had seen the sky. He stared at the sentence he’d written.
After a moment, Garry wrote on.
 
‘There once was a cute, fluffy, and extremely lovable dog. It ran around and barked. Yip-yip, went the little dog! It would roll around, and it had a huge spot on its nose it would lick sometimes, because it thought the spot was edible. When the dog ate, it would wag its tail, and it was the most happy animal in the world.
One day, the little dog found a friend. A cat. She had huge orange stripes and long whiskers, and she rubbed her head against the little dog’s head, and they were best friends. Then they went to play in the park, and I wish to curl up into a ball, what is going on?’
 
It took him ages to come up with the two paragraphs he’d labored over, and when he did—they were bad. He could feel the badness oozing off the page, but he’d added all the things Antinium liked.
Dogs. Cats. Love. The ingredients were there, but when Garry took his story around to other Antinium, the results confirmed his suspicions.
 
——
 
There were plenty of Antinium who were willing to read his story. None of them liked it.
“I do not like this dog.”
“Why not? You love dogs.”
“I cannot hold him. Also, what is his name, please?”
Garry had to read out the story to some Workers, but even this receptive crowd—who were holding and petting a dog at this moment—were critics. Another Worker raised his hand.
“Spot on its nose? Excuse me, but how would a dog know if it had a spot on its nose?”
“…Because it has one?”
“How could it see the spot on its nose? Does it have a mirror? This story makes no sense. Also, yipping is not a good sound for dogs to make. It sounds like it’s in pain.”
The other Antinium concurred, nodding wisely. Garry wasn’t a dog-expert, and he’d written doggrel that any animal-lover could tear apart. But perhaps the most cutting critique came from a Soldier, who Mrsha-signed at him simply:
“[Book says cute thing. I feel nothing. Book lies.]”
That—actually hurt a bit. Garry wandered away from the others, burned his writings, and then came back with some bread to thank them for their time. He sat, staring down at a piece of paper in the Painted Antinium’s barracks, trying to search for inspiration, when someone walked over.
“Hello, Baker Garry. Is there any free bread?”
“No, go ask Pawn, please.”
“Pawn has left. There is less free bread, though some [Priests] can make it. It is not as good as your bread.”
The Worker cheerfully sat down, and he was a Painted Antinium. One of the originals, or close to it; his paint was a bit frayed, and he had a full personality. Garry pointedly indicated his quill.
“I’m writing.”
“Okay. Why are you here, then?”
“I’m searching for inspiration.”
“Do you need help?”
“Unless you know how to write, no thank you.”
Garry snapped. He felt bad about being so rude, but the Worker didn’t seem to mind. He scratched at his antennae.
“I wrote a book once, you know. The others said you were writing horrible things about puppies, so they called me since everyone else is gone.”
“Excuse me? You wrote a book?”
Garry stared at the Painted Antinium, incredulous. The Worker nodded.
“The Book of Carnal Intercourse, a How-To and Explainative Manual. Volume 1. Remember that? Anand? Belgrade? Yellow Splatters? You were there too, but you didn’t contribute to the actual writing of it.”
The [Baker] stared at the Worker. He did remember—after a moment, Garry put his head in his hands.
“Ah, this would be what is known as ‘crippling embarrassment’. Yes, I recall.”
The Worker, who it transpired was known as Lewdquill, nodded wisely. He sat next to Garry, folding his arms.
“I’m a [Scribe]. I write things down for the Hive. Got the class while copying the book 86 times.”
“Dead gods. Eighty-six copies?”
“Most are still around. We had four different volumes, you know. With corrections, addendums. And illustrations. I had to do those by hand. You know, it’s not really that accurate.”
“I’m…aware, yes. It was an amusing mistake made by all the original Individuals when we were young.”
Lewdquill stared at the blank piece of parchment, then spoke.
“I don’t know about that. It was certainly lots of wrong things, but some Antinium tried it out.”
“They what?”
“Why wouldn’t they? It taught them things, and they made mistakes. Hilarious mistakes. It’s an inaccurate book, and the illustrations look really funny because I had to re-copy them, and I didn’t know what the source material looked like for a long time. It’s considered a collector’s item by non-Antinium, you know.”
“…What?”
This time, Garry’s head rose with actual interest, and Lewdquill nodded.
“They love it. Because it’s wrong, it’s funny to them. And Antinium love it because it explains what other species do, even if they’re wrong. It’s a good book. I helped write it. You want to know how to write?”
Now, Garry was looking at the Worker who helpfully sat there and grew embarrassed, because he’d dismissed the Worker out of hand. And he’d never thought there was an expert in the Antinium Hive; he’d thought he was the first. Well, he’d just not counted the book of intercourse or Pawn’s book of the sky. He’d sort of thought neither one was real writing, and that made him more embarrassed. Elitism? He wasn’t an elitist [Chef], but here he was doing it to stories.
“I…yes. Thank you. I’m sorry I was rude, Lewdquill.”
“No problem! I like my job. I’m not a [Writer]; I just copy down the book and make adjustments, but it has lots of perks. Like lots of ladies showing me what things actually look like. Males don’t want to that much.”
Garry’s mandibles opened, and he decided he’d better stop asking questions here. He’d heard about Pawn and Lyonette. He indicated the paper.
“Tell me, what do you think makes a good story, Lewdquill?”
The Worker thought about it for a second, then answered seriously.
“I think it’s writing something you know about. And passion. I read books sometimes, for fun. Copy them for the Hive. All the good ones are written with passion. Like Krsysl Wordsmith.”
“The Free Queen thinks his writing is highly inaccurate.”
“Ah, but it’s passionately inaccurate. And it’s what he knows about.”
“But he’s wrong about so many things.”
“Yep! But he knows it well. Does that make sense? We did tons of research for our book when we wrote it. That’s why there are all kinds of details, even if it was wrong. If you’re going to write, write something you know well.”
“…I don’t want to write a cookbook. I want to write something that makes Antinium happy.”
The Worker was nodding along to the [Baker]’s statements as Garry glared at the page. Then he inspected Garry sidelong and spoke.
“You know what made me happy? Proud to be an Antinium?”
“What?”
“It was when you delivered that bread. Despite all the Drakes trying to kill you. I thought, ‘that’s an Antinium like me!’ Only, you’re not. But I could believe it for a moment. And visiting the inn. The first time I went there, as a little Painted Worker, and had my first bowl of soup? That’s real. Put that into your story. Then have me make copies!”
He smiled, and Garry saw him stand. Then regard him again.
“At least, I thought you were a Worker like me. Anyone tell you that you’re big?”
“What are you talking about? I’m—”
Garry stood up, then stopped. His mandibles opened, and the two Workers eyed each other. They were Workers, made from the same exact blueprint in the Free Hive. Indistinguishable. And yet…Garry realized that Lewdquill’s mandibles were lower than his own. The eyes of the other Antinium weren’t exactly facing his. He hadn’t noticed it because he’d been so busy, but he was bigger.
Maybe…an inch bigger? Not that noticeable, and not on the level of a Soldier, but to the identical Antinium, Garry stood out instantly. And he swore his arms were a bit bigger too.
“No wonder they couldn’t kill you! You’re huge! A giant! Well, I don’t want to keep you from writing. Just hire me when you need work! Here’s my card.”
Lewdquill handed Garry a card. It said:
 
Lewdquill, Level 22 [Scandalous Scribe], Scribe’s Guild. 
I print anything.
 
The Worker walked off, and after a moment of staring at his back, Garry muttered.
“Antinium are getting weirder and weirder these days.”
The pot looked around at all the kettles and then strode off to think.
 
——
 
A story that he knew. Garry the Baker sat there and realized…he had treated writing poorly. Because he had made the assumption he could just sit down and write a book.
A good book, no less. But if he extended writing the same grace as cooking, then this was a ludicrous, nay, offensively arrogant take.
Assume that writing was analogous to cooking. Then how many hours had he put into his craft?
Had he mastered it? Would he dare to walk into a kitchen without having done more than cook a handful of meals and say he could run it during a lunch hour rush?
Yet…he had to try. Because despite realizing the scope of what he wanted, and his humbling, part of Garry believed in his conclusion.
“I have nothing to give so many of my people. Food runs out. I cannot feed them. But it was that [Innkeeper] who gave me chess. Chess did not save my life. I’m ambivalent on chess, but it led to everything else. A story is the only thing I can bring into these dark Hives.”
He touched his chest. All he had to do was bring that conviction that had carried him out of his own abyss. Put that onto the page.
The burning fury at the state of the world. The righteous helplessness. But how to convey it? Garry began to write, and the first candle he lit burned down, and another, but he had all night to do this if he must.
The light of a little piece of Scaethen Bread he nibbled on, the scritching of his pen nib, and occasionally, the clank of metal on metal or chopping as he went to cook to sort out his thoughts. And the smells…
Okay, the smells kept every single member of the Flying Antinium awake down the hall, and eventually the Free Queen shouted.
“Garry! You must cease cooking or share some with us! What are you making?”
“Offerings to the other Queens, my Queen.”
Garry got up and gave them a huge roasting spit’s worth of lamb meat that he had been carving as an offering. The stacked meat he’d been rotating over a flame dripped with fat and seasonings and got all over a page. Garry crumpled up the first page and offered it to Runel, who chomped it down. Then he got a new piece of parchment out and went back to work.
This is what he wrote, his second attempt.
 
The world is unfair. People starve, and this should not be so. But this concept, this simple concept that every single person who has ever starved knows, is somehow objectionable, wrong.
We exist in this world for brief moments. I have seen death coming in chance moments, without rightness or sense, and I am tired of wasting it. What value have coins when I am dead?
 
Then he stopped. Not because the words were wrong; he agreed with them implicitly. And nor from a sense that they were ill-formed. He knew they could be better, but the attempt would be worth it if…
“Something is wrong. This isn’t a story. It is philosophy. And this would not move me.”
Not the Garry who had no name, the lonely Worker who had clung to chess and marvelled at the sky. Then, Garry understood.
“I am writing to myself. But the myself I am writing to is the one who exists now. And I have forgotten, perhaps, the being I was. To that Antinium, I must write. The assumption I make now is that I am the better Antinium. The bigger Worker. That I care more. He cared just as much, perhaps more, but all he wanted was…to live.”
His hand trembled, and he eyed it. Then Garry stared up at the ceiling, and his antennae waved for a moment. When he began the third time, he wrote the only thing he really did know. His quill meandered on the page, hunting for something.
 
There is a…bug.
There is a bug. He has no His name is Calby.
 
Garry stopped and sat for a long while until [Kitchen Timer] went off and he checked on his boiling pots. Then he came back to the desk. Calby the Bug. Like him, but not. What did he know? What did the Unnamed Worker who would become Garry know? What spoke to him?
The quill’s tip moved in the silence. Truth.
 
Calby was a beetle with a big round shell, four arms, and he lived in his Hive the ground. 
“I am alone,” cried Calby the Beetle, and it was true. Loneliness was a deep and dark hole. He could see in the dark, but not through despair, and it enshrouded him. There was no future. No hope. 
He could stand in a crowd of a million, and he would still be alone.
 
Ding! [Sense Temperature] told him that the pasta needed straining now. Garry got up, then came back to his words. Stared at them.
“…This may not be what I intended.”
But his quill seemed possessed by that truth that had written Calby into being. It went on as the [Baker] who believed in goodness watched, horrified, a captive to his own words.
 
Somedays, the lonely bug wished the world would swallow him, for then he could rest. You may think that this is too harsh and there were good things in Calby’s life.
You would be wrong. He had nothing to hope for. If there was pleasantness in Calby’s life, it was an absence of cruel things. 
He was alone, and the voice that came from Calby was a shout though he dared not scream out loud. Every day, and every moment, he was crying for something, anything, and he had no idea what. 
But nothing came for him, and the voice grew louder and louder from Calby’s mouth until he thought that cry would consume him. He continued, day by day. Crying out without the words to know what he needed.
“Help me, please. Oh, please help. I’m stuck down here in this hell hole.”
 
Now was the moment when the story went uplifting, Garry felt. It had to be, but this was the despair of Antinium given words. He waited, and the quill dripped ink onto the page.
Then he realized—he was supposed to be giving them hope and froze.
 
Yet no one heard him. No one ever did.
“Won’t someone help me,” Calby continued, pleading. 
“Anyone.”
Yet there was no one down in the hole.
 
No one but Erin. And could he write her in? The Antinium hesitated. But there was no Erin. Now, his quill was possessed by an evil power. It moved, and he stared at his hand.
 
There was no answer. Not for Calby. Perhaps other bugs found hope, a hand reaching down to lift them up.
But not Calby.
“Help! Help! I shall die of this loneliness inside, then out. Help!”
And there was no one there.
“Liar! I can see you writing up there! Help me!”
Who, me?
“Yes, you! Help me! You can see me!”
 
Garry lifted the piece of paper. Peered at his own words. Turned it over.
“What the fudge?”
He placed it down and then—
 
The narrator wasn’t sure what to say. Calby’s situation was objectively impossible. A beetle trapped at the bottom of a hole had no friends. No one knew him. 
“But you can see me!”
This was true, but what did Calby expect they would do?
“Well, I don’t know, but you’re there. This is a terribly cruel pit I’ve been placed in. I am dying of loneliness. Surely you can do something?”
At this point, the narrator had to go off and have a long think while he added butter to pasta. Upon sitting back down, he analyzed the situation.
Calby the Beetle was stuck. There was no handy rope present.
“Just get me out of here!”
The narrator was working on that, but what did Calby expect when he left?
“I hope…to not be alone. But I don’t know what that’s like. And I do not wish for miracles, because I have never had some,” Calby’s voice trembled. Then he continued, rasping. “But despite that, I hope for it, because this current state of affairs is intolerable.”
Now, the narrator was also a relatively helpless figure in the grand scheme of things. But after some deliberate thought, they had an idea. If Calby was down there.
Maybe…
they could write
in a clever way
such that
Calby could get up?
“You did it!”
Calby cheered as he ran up the text like a staircase. He stopped at the top of the hole, then turned.
“Thank you. Surely, things will be better. All I needed was for someone to help me. Just once.”
This is all very well and good, Calby. But what do you expect to find outside of your hole? 
For answer, Calby looked up, and there it was:
The sky.
Perhaps, dear audience, you are like Calby. Stuck at the bottom of your hole. Perhaps we all are, and there are beautiful things in the darkness. But no matter what direction it is, no matter what form it takes, there is always the sky.
It is like nothing you’ve ever dreamed of. To those of us who live in holes, it is impossible to conceive, because the dirt has limits.
The sky has none. Calby stared into the great beyond that some called the sky, and he could see into forever. Colors where there had been none. The whispering grass, the smells of flowers blooming, but the sky—
There is wind up there. Not merely air, but a rushing like your heart being filled. That is the sky. When you see it, it will not be painless.
I daresay it is painful. For infinity, where there was a roof to your world, is terrifying. Frightening. It may break a piece of you, and nothing will be the same.
The terrifying thing about the sky is that it changes you. And perhaps, then, you should never look up lest your soul fall higher. And you are allowed to do these things. But if, like Calby, you are lonely, then you should climb.
“It’s beautiful,” Calby said. He sat at the edge of the hole that had been his world, and he knew that he could not go back. Not as the same Calby. He stretched his arms out wide and wondered—
What came next?
 
——
 
Once upon a time, in a meadow by a huge, dark, desolate pit, there lived a Beetle named Calby. He lived under a huge willow tree, and he was not lonely.
Because he had a friend.
An [Innkeeper]. No, not her.
There were a bunch of friends around his meadow. On a hill blooming with flowers lived another bug named Bird.
 
“Wait, why Bird?”
 
Bird sang many songs that drifted down to Calby, and he liked them all. They were always silly songs, for Bird was a silly bug. Even if she was Bird the Hunter.
“La, la, I am me! I am Bird, and I am free as can be!”
Calby envied Bird’s ability to sing. But she did not often come down from her hill of flowers, and he had many other friends.
Such as…
 
“Um…”
It was late. He didn’t know what to write, so his quill went on automatic, grabbing the only things he had in his head.
 
Such as Jexishe, the (one and only) Friendly Creler! She lived in a thicket of thorns and often warned Calby not to come close.
“I’m often toxic, and I’m always poisonous! I’m vicious and mean!”
She’d scurry out and bite everyone in sight, or spit venom, but then she’d go back into her den and add—
“But I’m working on being better.”
Since that was something Calby could get behind, they were best friends. They would often go out picking berries, which were Calby’s favorite snack. Only, he didn’t know which ones were which!
Red berries, green berries, purple berries, Calby would eat them all and sometimes get dreadfully sick.
“Calby! You should think more carefully about what you eat!”
Jexishe scolded him, and Calby would groan.
“But I thought they all looked good until I ate them.”
 
Garry checked a timepiece on the wall.
“What time is it? I should be asleep.”
 
Another of Calby’s friends lived next to the meadow in a big, big fort made of snow. Her name was Recia the Snow Squirrel. She loved playing pranks, but she loved pranks a bit too much, and she’d make other people unhappy.
There was also Mrrga, the chattiest Gnoll in the world, who sometimes did not know when to be quiet, and Nalete, the hairiest Human in the world, who lived under a huge redwood tree. Last of all of Calby’s friends living in this strange meadow was Gar the Goblin, who was always unhappy and suspicious.
“Everyone hates Goblins like me.”
Since Calby knew Gar was a Goblin, he did not disagree. But one day, he and Jexishe decided to pick Gar a huge basket of flowers. 
“One, two, three! Gar will be happy as can be when he sees these flowers,” Jexishe sang! 
(Calby wondered if he’d really be happy as all that.)
They were filling a basket when Bird the Hunter buzzed down and demanded to know why they were stealing her flowers.
“Oh, excuse me, Miss Bird,” Calby said. “I did not realize they were your flowers.”
“Of course they’re mine, silly! I demand a bird for all these lovely flowers! Or something bird-like. Anything will do. I am a silly Bird, so…toodle-loo! Don’t come back without a bird!”
Jexishe offered to kill a bird, but Calby did not want to kill an innocent bird, so they wandered away, hoping to find something bird-like to satisfy Bird. Upon the way, they ran into Recia the Snow Squirrel, who grew excited when she learned of Calby and Jexishe’s job.
“A bird? Why don’t we give Bird a snowball and trick her into thinking it’s a snow bird’s egg?”
Lying did not seem to be very nice to Calby, but since it was to give Gar flowers, he thought maybe it was worth a try? So they gathered up some snow and…
 
At this point, Garry nearly fell asleep onto his page of paper. Unsteadily, he got up and retreated to his sleeping corner, where he sat down and muttered.
“This is crazy.”
But then he got up twice to finish the story of Calby and Jexishe, who learned that lying was not a good way to do something good and that even if Gar the Goblin didn’t care for flowers, he thought they were quite good since they were edible.
Then Bird made a snow-bird hatch from the snowball, and they all had snow bird for dinner together—
He thought that the story might not have saved the Worker who had become Garry. But maybe it would make him dream of the sky.
Certainly, someone else agreed that Garry was onto something.
 
[Writer Class Obtained!]
[Writer Level 3!]
[Skill – Basic Penmans—]
 
Garry sat up blearily.
“I don’t think I’m a [Writer], though.”
 
[Level Ups Cancelled!]
 
——
 
The next day, a rather sleep-deprived Garry set out with some Painted Antinium towards the Hivelands. He gave all of them free bread, of course, but he barely spoke.
Instead, he rode on a little wagon they carried, and as payment, he cooked them breakfast, lunch, and dinner and read out his ongoing story of Calby the Bug to them.
They liked it. Oh, they had notes, like Garry needing to explain more about everyone, and they all wanted Calby to eat nicer things, so Garry found himself adding descriptions of wonderful soups and food that Calby got to eat.
Rather to his surprise, though, he ended up cranking out fourteen more pages filled with cramped handwriting and even a few images of ‘Calby’, though he was very rudimentary. He didn’t even realize the day was passing until it was time to camp, and when he curled up again—
 
[Scribe Class Obtained!]
[Scribe Level 6!]
[Sk—]
 
Garry sat up again.
“Nope.”
It would get in the way of his [Baker] class, and that was over Level 40. A few writing Skills? No.
 
[…Level Ups Cancelled!]
 
He settled back down and then heard—
 
[Storyteller Class Obtained!]
[Storyteller Level 7!]
[Skill – Captivating—]
 
Garry put a pillow over his head.
 
[Level Ups Cancelled.]
 
Somewhere, perhaps unseen, an invisible presence was getting slightly annoyed. C’mon, work with me here, buddy. After a few calculations, it went with—
 
[Philanthropist Class Obtained!]
[Philanthropist Level 2!]
[Skill – A Touch of Morality Obtained!]
[Skill – Designate Charitable Work Obtained!]
[Skill – Charity: Satisfied Pride Obtained!]
 
A bleary [Baker] sat up.
“…Huh.”
He didn’t object to the class and instead just fell asleep sitting, much to the other Painted Antinium’s relief; they’d been trying to get some shuteye, and no one was levelling them up.
 
——
 
The next day, Garry awoke and did some reading in the wagon for a bit before jogging with the Painted Antinium. He had a book he intended to trial in the Hives, plenty of food to appease the Grand Queen and other Queens, and a new class.
…Wait.
Garry paused after a bathroom break to address the sky. He clasped his hands together while the other two wiped, in the vague sense that it was fitting. In front of him sat one of the books he’d brought. Not the one he was writing, but good reading material for bathrooms: a dictionary.
“Excuse me. I believe there has been a mistake. While it is true that I accepted the [Philanthropist] class last night, I have done some research today and it appears I misapprehended the meaning of the word.”
He opened the book to the right page and pointed.
“According to this, a philanthropist is someone who seeks to improve the wellbeing of others, but primarily through the ‘donation of money’ to others. This goes against my beliefs, as I do not believe that the wellbeing of others through a fiscal system of coins is a necessary step. Also, I take issue with [Philanthropist] as a class because of the wording. ‘Seeks to’ implies there is a choice, as if this is some charitable decision, not a cause.”
He paused, and there was no response. Garry concluded his prayer and his bathroom break simply.
“I would appreciate rectification of this issue as I believe my main class encapsulates my desires, and any sub-class goes against my additional goals of leveling as swiftly as possible. I may even view my [Strategist of Sympathy] class in the same vein as strategy is purely rendered in service of baking. Everything is in furtherance of feeding others. Including writing.”
Again, there was no response, so Garry got up and continued walking. Well, riding. One of the Antinium in his company had [Unit: Match Speed], which was why they were keeping up with his wagon and the two mules who were moving so fast they were leaving a slipstream in the tunnel. The mules seemed to enjoy it, though.
Garry missed the horses. One had been named Freud. He’d let them down.
 
——
 
The Grand Queen welcomed Garry into her Hive that evening when he arrived after the long journey into the Hivelands. He stared up at the unnecessary marble pillars and paved stone, at hanging golden lamps fueled by, well, fuel, and at the hall where Workers and Soldiers ate below her.
She assured him she had [Cooks] of her own before a procession of people of various species wearing collars served him and his company food.
Garry smiled at the Grand Queen before offering her the largest shawarma ever created in this world’s history. She took one huge bite and chewed for fourteen seconds before ordering him to cook the rest of the night’s dinner and expressing her patent relief that he survived his deliveries of bread for ‘charity’, whatever that was.
Thus, the [Baker] found himself in the Grand Hive as a welcomed guest and noted they even had kitchens of their own. And [Slaves]. He lay down, thinking mightily, and before he drifted off, he heard a voice speak in his head with distinct annoyance.
 
[Philanthropist Class Removed.]
[Skills Removed.]
 
Garry smiled to himself. Then he wondered how Erin was doing. It had been a while since she’d called him. She hadn’t actually told him much about what was going on in her life.
He had a feeling there was something going on with her too.
 
 
Erin and Ulvama – Costumes
 
Erin wanted to talk to Garry. But she knew that would be running away. If she wanted a resolution to this situation, she had to find it for herself.
Garry was like an ace in the hole. But you still had to have a good hand of cards before you pulled him.
She was walking through Lemoste, thinking. For two reasons, really. The first was that she had an appointment she couldn’t miss for the Battle of the Bands. She’d let people down if she didn’t at least show her face, and she was tired of that.
The second reason was that Roja had come storming back after half-an-hour, and Erin had sensed her coming and was avoiding her.
It was easy. Roja was hunting for Erin, but the [Innkeeper] knew where she was thanks to her inn-senses. She just walked in the opposite direction Roja was storming. That didn’t take up her mind, so she really had no excuse. But her head just felt blank.
Ulvama’s angry at me for stupid stuff I did. I hurt her, and we fought. I brought up Tremborag’s mountain and what they did to non-Goblin women. And men, I think. She doesn’t want me to self-destruct. All these things are fair, important things, but this isn’t why we’re fighting.
I know that. I wish I could read her mind. I wish I could see exactly what she’s feeling.
“But what a boring life that would be. Too close to divine, and I have to believe they’re miserable people.”
But I want it. Just for her.
Ah, there was something there, but when Erin tried to focus on it, it slipped away. Like how it was sometimes hard to think of the deadlands and the ghosts and their quests or her parents and home.
Something too big, too painful or scary for her to want to live with. Erin tried to find it, but by the time her feet led her to the large warehouse that had a huge garage door open and was letting out the clatter of objects and the thunder of drums, the screech of a guitar solo, and so many voices—she didn’t have anything else.
Then someone spotted her.
“Miss Erin! We’re gonna take Battle of the Bands this time! No matter what my parents do!”
The Fraerling girl, Elohi, a [Rock Bassist], was all dressed up in raggedy clothing like some kind of post-apocalyptic survivor. She even had temporary tattoos and what Erin hoped were fake piercings. Her entire band were kitted out the same.
“Hey, Elohi, you look great. How’re you feeling? The Deranged Cats going to kill it?”
“Yeah! We’ve been practicing three songs, and they’re really good. Way better than the Fallin’ Gnomes or Acoustic Devils!”
The Fallin’ Gnomes were her parents’ band. They were dressed up in clothing that Erin felt like her parents would have called similar to Kiss from Earth: white facepaint, black hair, and a mix between bodysuits and just not wearing shirts at all.
They were waving, but the glaring younger Fraerlings were flipping them off and booing—it looked like Battle of the Bands 4 was going to be the olds versus the youngs.
Erin wasn’t sure which side she was on, or should take, so she settled for encouragement.
“Hey, knock ‘em dead. Sorry Matha’s still under the weather and I’m, uh, busy.”
“You’re going to be there, right?”
“Absolutely. But I’m not taking sides!”
Erin lied, and Elohi leapt up and punched the air before landing as she struck a chord on her guitar. The ground trembled a bit.
“Great! Then we’re going to knock the new walls down! Just wait ‘till you see our Combined Skill!”
“Your what now? You got one of…”
Erin was left with questions as Elohi raced off to shout at some fans who were lining up for the concert. The [Innkeeper] didn’t have any Combined Skills! She was about to go over to the other bands when someone exited a washroom, adjusting her outfit.
“I think I’m okay, guys. It only sprays one in four t—oh, hey Erin.”
…And there was Matha. Erin sighed, but she didn’t have the same animosity towards Matha right now with the Ulvama fighting. Plus, she felt a bit bad that Matha still had, uh, toiletry problems after all this time.
Plus—Matha was being very cautious. She raised her hands, and Erin noted that Ulvama’s makeup was still on her face, and Matha had on a costume that would have done a rock n’roller from the height of sequins and sparkles proud.
A long one-piece suit in off-gold with a v-neck and decorated with multi-colored streamers cut in wavy lines. Like flames. Erin was going to say Matha looked ridiculous, but closed her mouth on the insult.
“Hey, that’s not bad. It’s either corny or cool.”
Truth. Matha’s hair had glitter in it, and she brushed at it, glancing at Erin.
“Thanks. Costumes are amazing. Some [Artisans] are sponsoring the Battle of the Bands, and they have tons of amazing stuff. Song crystals, oh, and you have to see these!”
She had leather jackets. Erin’s lips twitched as she saw there were a load of blank ones, ready to be stitched with your favorite bands’ logos.
“This is very cool.”
If this were in her world, in her city, and someone was giving out free jackets for your favorite band or putting this much effort into something that was free…? She wished she could enjoy it.
Matha was glancing at Erin.
“So, um, thanks for coming, Erin. It means a lot to all the bands. They know about, um—Ulvama.”
Oh, the fighting. That explained why Elohi’s parents weren’t racing over to get her to do an intro song. Erin shrugged.
“At least no one’s coming to tell me off about how stupid I am.”
“Eh, half of ‘em are on your side. Fraerlings, I mean. Everyone here knows you’re great. I keep telling them it’ll turn out alright. So—if I’m bothering you, just say the word. You can probably leave after, like, twenty more minutes.”
She really was trying. Erin squinted at Matha, then glanced about.
“I’ll hang around for a second. I’m not doing much good. Frankly, I thought I’d be needed to stop actual fights or sabotage. Remember the last Battle of the Bands?”
Someone had put a baby earwig in the drumsets, and someone else had rigged a stage light to fall. Which wasn’t fatal given the relative toughness of Fraerlings and the weight of the lights, but—the two age groups were sniping at each other.
Maybe it was a metaphor. On one side, you had the kids, who loved and embraced the music and resented the older Fraerlings who said things needed structure, who obeyed (mostly) rules about when you could make sound and made things less cool.
On the other hand, though—kids were jerks. Erin had heard Elohi tell her parents they didn’t ‘get’ the new music and they were too old to play anything or have good taste. Which was a hell of a thing to say to two forty-year-old Fraerlings.
Never make an enemy of a Fraerling grandpa in his eighties. He was flashing hand gestures at a pair of teens that were avoiding him. His name was Alack, and he’d told Erin that it had genuinely made him want to stay away when the kids had told him that. She’d encouraged him to get someone to make a saxophone and blow them away.
Neither side was right, and neither side was entirely wrong, especially since they wanted to just enjoy this thing, and the other side could be controlling or judgey or annoying.
“Someone should break both sides’ legs and toss them down a well.”
“Uh…no, no need for that Erin! They’re being good, really!”
Erin glanced at Matha and hesitated.
“No, that wasn’t—I was just joking.”
Matha gave her a nervous smile, and Erin scratched at her head.
“But I thought there’d be some fighting. Some of these guys are wild.”
“Oh, that’s me. I used a few Skills. The only ones I’ve got. [No Infighting]!”
Matha puffed out her chest, and Erin blinked at her. The [Raider Leader]…oh, of course. She had to have a few Skills to keep her Cottontails in line.
“Huh. Well…good work. But that won’t work on anyone higher-level than you or if they get really mad.”
“Right.”
“So the key isn’t watching the kids. It’s the high-level Fraerlings. Like…hey!”
Erin dragged Matha to an older Fraerling about to enchant a bunch of guitar strings to snap. She was after a particularly annoying band, but Erin caught the woman’s arm.
“Save it for the performances. Beat them with music, okay? Don’t go tarnishing the Battle of the B—oh dead gods, I’m a B-grade movie character.”
Erin glanced around, and all they needed now was for the main character and the love interest to appear and start making out under the stands. She rubbed at her head as Matha glared.
“Yeah, back in your spot, and if I catch you, I’m disqualifying your entire band! What was that other bit, Erin?”
“I literally have no way to explain it.”
Ulvama would have gotten it or found it amusing. She’d probably be here applying makeup and making her own jacket if they weren’t fighting.
Erin was tired, all of a sudden, and went to raid the refreshments. Matha came over after a while and found Erin gulping some dewdrop water. She gestured hesitantly.
“Want to sit somewhere backstage, Erin? There’s a clothing storage room.”
“Yeah. That might be a good place to think.”
 
——
 
Somewhere in the city, Ulvama was with Bowom, preparing for her encounter with Erin—mostly by packing incense burners full of Dreamleaf. And Bowom was up to something too.
Erin could feel it. Perhaps it wasn’t even a Skill, but a sixth sense after doing this so long. Today would be a conclusion to their fighting. Whether it was a confrontation or resolution…
Still, she had no clue what to do as she sat on a costume box. She had no Bowom, only a Roja and a Eurise.
Matha fidgeted, hopping from foot to foot and glancing around, but no one else was here. And she knew Bowom was going to talk to Ulvama, so she took a huge breath.
The worst thing that can happen is she dunks me in the toilet or kills me. Wait, that’s bad.
Nevertheless, she had to do it.
“S-so, Erin. I was thinking, for the big concert, um, Ulvama’s going to be there. She loves free food and stuff.”
“She’ll be there, yes.”
Erin was staring at her hands, and she didn’t look at Matha. Not for the first time, the [Raider] had the vague impression that Erin would have been happier if she could push Matha’s head through a wall and leave her there. Which Matha deserved, but—!
“I was thinking. It’s a fun night. She’ll love the food we’re putting out since the city’s stopped rationing. The Architects said it was as good as a public holiday now that there are two walls up—um, it’d be a great time to talk to her.”
“If I had anything worth saying, I’d actually agree, Matha.”
“Right. Right. But what if—you, uh, got ready for it?”
“What a thought. It’s almost like I’ve been trying that all day.”
She was like when Zinni was mad. Lots of flat tones and sarcasm. Matha squirmed, but she was in this deep and she wasn’t dead.
“What I mean is you could dress up a bit, Erin. Impress Ulvama.”
Erin’s head snapped up, and she gave Matha a flat gaze.
“Why would that matter?”
Matha’s heart stopped, and she spluttered out the truth.
“She likes it when people do that kind of thing.”
“That’s stupid. No she d…”
The [Innkeeper]’s glower cut off, and she hesitated, then crossed her arms. Erin scowled, then glanced down at her clothing.
“What’s wrong with what I’m wearing?”
Erin was wearing a blue t-shirt and pants made out of a semi-rough cloth of some kind that had a bit of white mixed in. It was definitely a style…she’d worn the same type of clothing all week now that Ulvama had stopped bothering her about what she wore.
Matha hesitated, but not even her fear of offending the [Innkeeper] could keep her from making a few remarks.
“Nothing. It’s just that it’s the same thing you always wear. And Ulvama likes fashion and stuff. She never eats the same meal twice if she can help it.”
This was also true and another source of strife even prior to the big fight. Erin was happy to make something and eat it as leftovers for breakfast, but Ulvama insisted on something being different, even about leftovers. The [Innkeeper] glowered as she tried to find a flaw in Matha’s arguments on the grounds they came from Matha, but then she jerked her head.
“Feh. Fine. I guess this is the room for it. I’ll put something else on, I guess.”
She hopped off the box of costumes, and Matha ran around to find things that Erin could try on. When she rushed back with a huge sample of clothing, Erin had found something she liked.
“Hey, this could work.”
She had found…black pants. With worn holes around the knees. Erin held them up as Matha’s face fell.
“These are like those pre-worn pants that were trendy, uh, sometime. And how’s this?”
She’d found another t-shirt. Matha stared at the clothing.
“Oh, come on. It’s so boring.”
She snapped at Erin as if she were a fellow Cottontail, and Erin’s eyes flashed. Matha flinched.
“Sorry! It’s great, it’s just—”
“What’s wrong with jeans?”
“Is that what they’re called? Nothing’s wrong, Erin. It’s just—you wear them all the time. Unless Ulvama makes you wear something else, it’s the exact same kind of outfit every single day. Same with the shirts.”
“No I haven…hmm. Well, so what? I like jeans.”
“What about this?”
Matha gingerly held up a long, flowing dress she sort of wanted to see Erin in. It was definitely not Erin’s style, and she took one look at it and shook her head.
“No. I’m not a dress-person. I haven’t worn those since I entered middle school.”
Matha had no idea what a middle school was. What, was there a left school and a right school too? A top school? Bottom school?
She would have loved to ask, but Erin was a closed book and she was getting annoyed, so Matha tossed the dresses.
“What about, uh—”
If you took out dresses and anything even vaguely skirt-related, you could see how Erin got to where she was. Erin started shooting down clothing Matha held up. After twenty straight ‘no’s without a moment of hesitation, Matha drooped.
Erin—noticed.
 
——
 
Matha was genuinely a bit upset, but she was trying to project upbeat energy. The fact that she was hiding it and not filled with…lust, attraction, or silly excitement made Erin feel a tad bit guilty.
She’s trying to help me. Strange. I thought she’d be flirting with Ulvama. But she actually wants the Battle of the Bands to go well. I’m being stubborn.
Erin reluctantly glanced at a onepiece, trying to give it another chance, and decided that one was genuinely way too skintight, regardless of any goodwill. She spread her hands as she turned to Matha, who was hunting for something that would pass the muster.
“Listen, Matha. I appreciate you trying, but I’m not going to wear anything well. I don’t have any style. Plenty of people have tried to get me to look good in clothing, and it just doesn’t work.”
She was a plain person, without the kind of style that Ulvama or even Numbtongue or Lyonette had. Dead gods, even Mrsha could wear a Scottish kilt and make it her own.
Erin’s simple style was objectionable here, though. And Matha poked her head out of a rack of coats.
“C’mon, Erin. We want to just impress Ulvama a bit, right?”
Neither one questioned that it was Ulvama they were trying to win over, and Erin stuck her hands in her pockets.
“Yeah, but I’m not dressing up like a clown. No dresses.”
“Can I at least ask why? Some dresses are really cool.”
Oh, well, that was easy. Erin elaborated, realizing that she had never given her treatise on jeans to, well, anyone in this world. But it was very simple.
“Dresses don’t have pockets. I have to have pockets in whatever I wear. I know it’s not trendy or fashionable, but jeans are comfy, and I don’t have to worry about what I’m going to wear like everyone else. I found what I liked in, like, middle school, and I never changed it.”
“When is middle school?”
“Nearly a decade ago.”
“…And you never wore anything else? No dresses? Not once?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged again, uncomfortable without being able to say why.
“They’re just too conventionally girly. I never liked ‘em. And again, pockets! It’s one of the things that guys always get with their clothing and girls don’t. It’s a huge pain.”
She didn’t know how you could live if you had to carry around a handbag or clutch or use coat pockets or something. Matha peered at Erin above a rack of clothing. She pulled up a dress at random, then spoke.
“Um. Erin? All these dresses have pockets.”
“…Huh?”
It turned out that every single Fraerling article of clothing had pockets, even the form-fitting ones which had interior pouches. Erin blinked, then reddened slightly and blustered.
“Well—back home they don’t! At least, they didn’t when I was in middle school. Because of the patriarchy or something.”
“What’s that?”
“Too hard to explain. I’m not down on dresses because I think they don’t fit, anyways. I—here, let me search around. All I’ve got to do is shake up my regular style, right?”
Matha let Erin take over poking around the rather varied costumes that Fraerlings had made to indulge this other world’s musical stylings. She sat on a box, cross-legged, as Erin muttered to herself.
“Look, some people have style, some people don’t. You’ve got style, a bit, Matha. You can get into wearing this kind of stuff. I can’t. Your costume’s okay. I’d have called it tacky a while ago, but I see how you can wear it.”
“Thanks. Like the flames on the sides?”
“Yeah. It works.”
“Ulvama came up with the idea. Like how she wanted to wear that dress because it had your magic on it.”
Erin fumbled a set of underwear and turned. Matha flinched as the hazel eyes flashed, but then Erin just peered at the ground. Bent to pick up the clothing and dust it off.
“Great. Another thing I didn’t notice and did wrong. I’m surprised you stick around. I know you can tell I’ve been mean to you.”
“Oh, like when you’re really mad and I feel like a [Dangersense] is going off? Yeah, that’s not fun, but I stick around because—well, I feel bad. I didn’t know what I was doing, and a lot of the Cottontails got hurt.”
“Because I destroyed your base and started cutting throats.”
Erin’s head bent further, and Matha bit her lip.
“Everyone survived, and Bowom put on the, uh—fingers—”
Dead silence. Matha changed subjects desperately.
“Anyways, don’t think I’m doing this just because I’m guilty. If I didn’t follow you and Eurise, I’d have run off or started the Cottontails again after, like, a month. I’d never stay in Wyewesshi.”
That brought Erin back to being annoyed with Matha again. She turned, but Matha saw the twist of her lips, even when Erin thought she was hiding it. The [Innkeeper]’s voice had a touch of scorn.
“Too boring to settle down in and work a regular job?”
That hurt Matha’s feelings, but she put on a determined smile.
“Kinda. It’s mostly Great Grandma.”
“Zinni?”
“Yeah. In Wyewesshi, everything she says goes. Everything ends up how Grandma Zinni wants. Even if you say no, you end up doing more or less what she wants.”
Erin stopped running her hand over a fuzzy coat and turned back to Matha.
“Huh. That sounds annoying. Sounds like someone should stand up to her.”
“People have tried. They just move out. She likes me; she says I remind her of her at that age. But I bet she’s picked out a job for me for once I’ve ‘settled down’.”
“Ergh. I hate controlling people.”
Erin made a face, then stared at a full-length mirror that someone had put up, as if struck by a truly unpleasant thought. Matha chattered into the void, venting a bit.
“Yeah, well, I tried.”
Erin turned to her.
“How?”
“The Cottontail Raiders? Raiding Grandma’s herds? Doing all kinds of stuff that annoyed her? I thought we’d maybe make a village someday and prove we didn’t need her. But…we still needed help now and then, and I guess we weren’t that good if one person could take us all out.”
Matha kicked her legs, glancing away from Erin. Her treasured base with her friends…that still hurt. Erin averted her gaze.
“I was wrong about you all. I’m glad Ulvama stopped me. Zinni…Zinni cares about you.”
“Yeah. I know. I just wish she cared enough to let me be me instead of a younger her, or whoever she thinks I am.”
Matha gazed at her boots and remembered Zinni gifting them to her special. She loved her grandma, but Zinni made it hard. Erin was lost in silence again until she unhooked a uniform like the Fallin’ Gnomes were wearing. The black, skintight suit embroidered with crow-feathers like fur was a look, and Matha’s heart beat faster at the idea of Erin trying it on. But the [Innkeeper] just laughed.
“You know what, Matha? I could almost see myself trying this on. This is crazy. I’d call myself stupid for just thinking about it a few months ago. But a few months ago, I was dead.”
“What? Like dead-dead or…?”
Erin nodded, and Matha had so many questions and realized Erin hadn’t told many people about her past, except for maybe Bowom and Eurise. But the [Innkeeper] kept murmuring.
“I thought I knew what I liked. I thought I knew who I was, but look at me now. Rocking out on stage is fun. I didn’t think I could perform for a crowd. I mean, I did it once but not like a real concert, something I wanted to put on. I didn’t think I could dance, either. But I learned I liked dancing, and—everything new, I like. Or most things, at least. I hate eating sugar. I’m down with salads. Who am I? I didn’t think I was supposed to change.”
She gazed at her hands.
“I was proud of knowing who I was. Now, the world’s topsy-turvey. I used to be an [Innkeeper]. Then I died, almost by accident. When I woke up again, I was a girl with a quest. A mission to save the world. I didn’t realize how much that sucked until I had to do it.”
Save the…? Matha’s mouth opened, but then she just waited, because Erin was talking on, walking through the lines of clothing, touching articles, pulling them out as if even the most outlandish thing might fit her.
“I survived that battle at sea and the depths of The Naga’s Den, but I am not the same. I will never be again, and I’m afraid of who might have emerged if things hadn’t gone the way they had. But for Ulvama…and here we are fighting over such small things. Small things that matter.”
Matha nodded. Just like what she’d said to Zemmy and Mera—it felt like this was bigger. She fidgeted, trying to think of something to ask.
“D-did, um, you want to change before this?”
Erin turned, surprised, and met Matha’s eyes.
“No. Never. I was always the [Innkeeper] trying to save that little Goblin. I was in the Floodplains of Liscor, waving that flag…and I would never do it otherwise. How could I betray their memories like that?”
More things Matha didn’t get, but now Erin was shaking her head.
“But no—that’s not true either, is it? There was once. A few times, when I saw something and I wished I was stronger. Cooler. Maybe I wanted to change, but I was afraid that if I did, I’d let go of everything I…huh. Fashion. Do I have to wear only one costume?”
“No, go ahead! Anything that looks good, be my guest! You could go out in your underwear and I wouldn’t complain.”
“Yeah, I bet.”
Erin shot Matha a sardonic glance, but then she was wandering around. Searching for something.
“I need a pole. Oh, here’s a mop. Now, I need a white…there.”
She found a white shirt, tore it up, and began to sew with a kit left in a corner for just that purpose. Matha didn’t understand what Erin was doing, but when the [Innkeeper] attached the white fabric to the pole she’d taken from the mop…it meant something.
She planted it, the white flag, on the ground and stared at it, and Matha watched, not knowing why her heart beat faster. Only that for a second, Erin captured that thing she claimed she didn’t have.
Style. Memory. She murmured as she hefted the flag up.
“There was just one moment when I could have been someone different. I didn’t want to, but it tempted me. It brought it up again when I hit Level 50. I could have been a [Bannerlady]. I don’t want death or fighting, but I think…hmm. What else should I wear?”
She put the banner down, and Matha cast around.
“I, uh, dunno. What do you think looks cool? Anything you’ve ever wanted to wear?”
“No. I n…hmm.”
Once more, Erin seemed to catch the lie and went pacing through the room. This time, she was hunting for something. She spoke to herself and her audience of one.
“There was just one time. I have had so many guests in my inn. From Dragons to undead monsters. Heroes and villains. Each one has fascinated me, but I was sure I would see them again, even when they left on their adventures. There was only one that I knew I would never understand. They only came into my inn a moment for a war I was too late to join. Their name was Theillige. A member of the Wild Hunt, from another world.”
“What did they wear?”
Erin was staring at a figure hoisting a tankard in her inn before they drew that terrible blade to duel a goddess. Her lips whispered as her eyes stung.
“They walked into my inn with a thousand thousand lives. A [Knight] of the winter. A grim reaper of frost. A…wait. Where are those jackets for the band merch?”
She went outside and came back with the leather jacket. Stared at it, then glanced around.
“They had a helmet on in each life. In one, they dressed like someone from my world. As if the Wild Hunt were a biker gang. A motorcycle helmet. Hah. There’s no way—”
“We’ve got all kinds of people who’re helping the bands! We could make it or make it look like what you want, no sweat!”
Matha leapt up, and bemused, Erin tried to describe what she was thinking of. It was ridiculous, of course. Way too cool for Erin, but when one of the [Costumers] heard about the shape of the bicycle helmet…
“[Customer’s Image]. Oh, that’s so much better than your sketch! So shiny! I can do that! Just get some wood, polish it up after some paint with the right reflectiveness…I’ll have it within an hour. Matha, you’ll need leggings like this.”
The excited, very passionate Fraerling woman sketched out the outfit, and Matha snatched it and sighed.
“Oh, you’ve got to wear this.”
“Er—”
That was how Erin found herself assembling a biker’s outfit despite not actually biking, let alone motorbiking. But in fairness? Leather jacket and pants were pretty close to her standard outfit.
But the vibe was very different. Erin held up the jacket as Matha raced to give it suitable accoutrements. She was holding up metal studs.
“Hey, Erin, what if we gave them armguards on one shoulder like the sketch? Can I? Please? Please try it on?”
A number of Fraerlings wanted Erin to try the new look, actually. The [Innkeeper] was about to object, to say this was a bad idea, when she hesitated.
“One second.”
Matha’s face fell, but Erin vanished into the costume room and came back with the flag a second later. She held it over one shoulder as she tried on the jacket. The shiny black leather…she sat, lacing up some boots, and Matha glanced at some other helpers.
More color, more little details, but—then Erin twisted around.
“My back’s too bare.”
“We can put a logo on it. Or a band—”
“Can you put something else? A chess piece? A queen?”
Erin had to show them what she wanted, just a standard queen piece, and she was vaguely surprised when they ran to get one cut out. By the time a prototype helmet had come back to put on, she was finding some gloves and this?
It was silly. It wasn’t her, but maybe it was something she liked. Did you dress to…become someone you wanted to be? To channel who you were?
“That’s silly. It can’t be that.”
“Can’t be what?”
Erin glanced over at Matha.
“I was just thinking that you don’t dress up to try to be something different, even if you’re not. Because if that were why you wore fancy clothing, it’d mean I wasted twenty years of my life because I didn’t get it.”
Solemnly, Alack the [Saxophone Player] clapped Erin on the shoulder.
“No time like the present to change it up. You want to do something with that hair?”
He indicated Erin’s hair, which was regrowing, even the side that had been mostly burnt away. This time, Erin didn’t even say ‘no’. She just tilted her head.
“Normally, I have the same hairstyle. It’s way too uneven on this side to do much with, though. Sorta scraggly.”
She brushed at the short hair that hadn’t had enough weeks to do anything with it. Matha cast around.
“There’s a [Barber] who cut my hair a few days ago. You could buzzcut it short. Real short.”
“Then I’ll be unsymmetrical! What, do I comb over the rest?”
“Yeah.”
“Well…it can’t be worse than now. And I bet they can regrow my hair if it’s really bad. Plus, it’s all discolored. Okay.”
The Fraerlings were running off again, and Erin smiled despite herself. Then she realized she hadn’t come to any conclusions about the big conversation this was all for. But she thought…this was helping.
A quiet realization was dawning over her that she didn’t need some grand theology to comprehend. She just needed to be in the right mood. To be the right person.
 
——
 
When Matha ran back, the [Barber] had Erin sitting in a chair in moments, and the [Innkeeper] was grimacing, possibly with nerves, as she watched her hair falling down.
Matha was not uncertain; this was going to be amazing, and she was getting tingly as the costume came together. She wanted to know what Ulvama would think.
Ulvama.
Matha hesitated as Erin sat there, and the rift between the two was weighing on Erin’s mind. But she just smiled at Matha.
“Thanks for helping, Matha. I know I’ve been mean to you, and perhaps you deserved some of it.”
“Maybe a bit, even the sewer thing.”
Matha flushed, and Erin shrugged. Then she went on as the [Barber] scolded her.
“But I appreciate you doing this. I know you’ve been trying to help, and I just…didn’t like you. For a lot of reasons. However, pushing me to dress up a bit, push my limits? That’s good. Not many people do that. Well, Lyonette, Magnolia, Ryoka, Selys, plenty of people have tried. I’m a bit stubborn.”
No kidding? Matha held her tongue on that one, and Erin rubbed at her chin again.
“I haven’t dressed up like this since…the last time I went on a date, I guess.”
“When was that?”
Erin’s face grew shadowed.
“Oh, at least…four years? Hard to count given how long it’s been. It wasn’t great. I used to date, back home. I gave it up. I had exactly one boyfriend and one online person who turned out to be a girl—but the boyfriend just didn’t work out. Actually, he wanted me to wear a dress.”
“Boys, yuck. Who needs ‘em?”
Matha’s opinion was unnuanced, but it made Erin smile and go on after a pause. She stared ahead, as the [Costumer], [Barber], and everyone else listened with a long ear.
“Yeah. He wasn’t great, but I probably wasn’t either. It just wasn’t anything special. It was tedious, nervewracking, uncomfortable—nothing like it was supposed to be. But I wanted to try because…I was lonely, I guess. All I wanted was someone who saw what I saw. Does that make sense?”
“Um…see what?”
Erin lifted a hand, and flames of every color danced across her hand.
“Everyone sees the world differently. Sometimes, I think I’m speaking a different language than other people, even when I say the exact same words, Matha. Take Goblins for example. Plenty of people say, ‘who cares about Goblins? They’re monsters. There’s no point defending them’. And I look at them and wonder if they’re blind. Can they not see a Goblin cry? Does it mean nothing?”
Her face was bitter then, but she went on.
“—Not just Goblins. Everything. I wanted, all I wanted, was to find someone who saw my world. And chess? Chess was not the way to find those people. All they were was good at chess and usually so different from me that it wasn’t even something I thought about. But for a while, I hoped…nah.”
She shook her head sadly.
“I’ve found plenty of people I respect, who I love. Lyonette is so utterly unlike me in so many ways. Same with Ryoka, Pisces, or…but I guess it’s still lonely. I don’t feel lonely when my inn is full, of course, but I never found that person. Some people see sides of me. Like Niers.”
“…As in Niers Astoragon, the Titan? Do you kn—”
Someone kicked the [Costumer] to shut her up, and Matha interrupted.
“What about Ulvama?”
“What? Ulvama? She doesn’t see the world the way I do.”
“Oh.”
Erin paused and inspected her reflection in the hand mirror the [Barber] was working off of. She brushed at her lopsided haircut, then her hazel eyes shone clearly at Matha.
“She can’t see my thoughts. But she understands me. And I realized that’s what I really want. I don’t need someone who thinks the way I do, just someone I can talk to who gets me. But I suppose that’s also the problem.”
Erin touched her chest as Matha’s heart hurt. Because this, too, was painful, but she stomped down on the emotions. This was too captivating. The [Innkeeper] blew on her fingers as the [Barber] stepped back, and a flaming hat appeared on her head, her half-cut hair swept over the buzzed side. Her features were hesitant as she stood and inspected the long pants, the biker’s jacket emblazoned with the chess piece that the [Costumer] held up, and leaned on the white flag.
“This looks good. It really does. I’m just worried, I guess, that if I ever met someone special that…it’s all surface-deep. I’m afraid there’s nothing but a monster or emptiness if you really looked into my soul. Nothing worth anything deep down.”
She turned, leaning the flag across one shoulder like a woman marching to war, and she didn’t understand. That silly [Innkeeper] saw half her audience burst into tears and blinked at them. But—then—
She was almost ready. She took Matha’s shoulder.
“I have to talk to someone. A dear friend. But I promise I’ll be there for the concert. Thanks, Matha.”
The [Raider] wanted to say something. She gazed up at Erin and blurted out.
“If—um—no matter what happens, I think it’ll be okay. And if it doesn’t, I’ll listen to anything you want to say.”
Erin touched Matha’s shoulder and squeezed once with a grin. Then she stepped back as a door opened in her chest.
“Thanks. But I don’t know how you put up with me.”
Then—she was gone.
Matha thought she had done everything, everything she could. If this failed, it would not be because the [Innkeeper] wasn’t ready. And the Goblin?
It turned out that the Goblin had the same idea.
 
——
 
She was in the company of Bowom the Slicer, one of Lemoste’s most infamous figures. But the people who flocked to the Hobgoblin were on her side. Not necessarily against Erin, either, but just for Ulvama.
The [Shopkeeper], Thist. Miss Eitine, the [Enchanter] that Ulvama had met. Even the healer, [Restorer] Ginthe, was watching with arms folded because this was technically a risky procedure.
“That’s a lot of Dreamleaf. These other substances will produce a hallucinogenic effect.”
One of the [High Magi] was nodding.
“I think someone should be in the room with Miss Ulvama, to test the effects. I volunteer.”
“No, I think we need multiple volunteers—”
Bowom ignored the happy spellcasters. Ulvama had a charm about her unlike Erin. She was much like a woman who’d been hurt, abused, and who had learned not to trust the world slowly opening up and finding people who would do anything to help her or see her smile.
Exactly like that. He was bad with analogies. If that wasn’t enough to make you want to spend time on the Hobgoblin, well, she was also a Goblin. She had a magic not even Fraerlings understood.
Speaking of which…the [Summoner] tapped Ulvama on the shoulder.
“Gift for ya, Ulvama. In case you have to kick that [Innkeeper] around a bit.”
“I can’t beat Erin in anything. Maybe magic, but she’s too…oh.”
Ulvama stared at the long-stemmed pipe and held it in her hands. It was newly-carved and varnished; Fraerlings worked incredibly fast when they wanted to. But they weren’t prepared for tears to leak from her eyes.
Instantly, everyone rounded on Bowom. Not because it was his fault, but because he was the bastard who could stride over.
“Hmm, well, I’m not tearing up myself, but that’s smokeless tobacco for you. Insidious. It’s not even enchanted. I’d shed half a tear and move on with a firm handshake and ‘thank you’.”
The [Summoner] kicked at him, but Ulvama stopped sniffing and turned.
“Thank you. It—I’m not sad because—it just reminds me of being small. Being home. I lost everything from my first tribe.”
Which, of course, begged the question—what had she lost?
The [Summoner] cleared her throat tactfully. There was a Battle of the Bands tonight, after all. Plenty of time to dress up.
“And you’re leaving the city. With respect to fashion, that clothing isn’t going to stand up to any hits. Don’t you have any armor?”
Bowom had seen the rather revealing clothing that exposed almost all the skin Ulvama had. Practical if you dealt in magical paint. He was going to mention that when Ulvama blinked and looked down at the pipe in her hands.
“Normally, I just uncover since magical paint is better. But…but…when I was in the Molten Stone tribe, I had a mask. It broke the month I left the tribe. And armor. I remember they had armor you could put paint on. Made of natural materials.”
“Ah, you’re speaking my language. No metal, yes?”
The [Druid] knew what she was talking about, and Ulvama glanced around hesitantly.
“Yes. Maybe I could make some if I’m here? I can pay…”
She was surrounded by high-level spellcasters who assured her this was not a thing they cared about. So Ulvama laid out a concept with flicks of her fingers that conjured illusions, and Bowom blinked.
“Oh my.”
“Fascinating. I know this [Costumer] who does wonderful work—she’s sewing for the musicians. I could nip down and bug her. Hey, you know, I think there’s some spiders that would do really well with this armor.”
Ulvama didn’t even blink at the suggestion of spider-based armor. As for the mask, two [Wizards] were already arguing with an [Enchanter] over where to find the right wood or bark to make it happen.
“Don’t forget to make a few for us! I want to decorate one myself!”
Like that, the Hobgoblin found a costume of her own being put together, but she walked back to the center of the little ritual space she’d set up. It was just a few incense burners and a simple pentagram without any magic involved.
It confuzzled the magicians as Ulvama sat cross-legged.
“Some kind of ritual magic, Miss Ulvama? If you need boosting or linking to enhance the effects…”
She smiled at the polite [Alchimagus] and shook her head.
“This is only for Goblins, [Alchimagus]. It…it’s not even magic, really. Just the power of [Shamans].”
So saying, she lit the burners and inhaled the Dreamleaf and other substances she’d mixed together. It wasn’t a powerful high, and nor were the hallucinogenics strong, much to the disappointment of the [High Mage].
The power of Dreamleaf was to soothe and, of course, to enhance dreams. Both waking and slumbering. Ulvama had known of this power since she was a girl along with so many things Anazurhe and her teachers had taught her. But…she had never done this once in her life.
She’d been too afraid to. Yet now, as she met Bowom’s eyes, she knew that she had to do it.
Unlike Erin, she had no [Pavilion of Secrets]. No one to talk to who understood Ulvama. Even if she had gotten Erin to lend her the Skill—who could she talk to? Another Goblin? Rags, Calescent, the living Goblins had so few connections to her.
There were only two Goblins who had known her previous lives well.
Tremborag of the Mountain City tribe, and Pyrite, who had always been a tribe of his own.
They were dead. She was no [Soul Summoning Shaman], and that would be a painful conversation. So, Ulvama closed her eyes as the Dreamleaf swept around her and used the power innate to all Goblins, but gifted to [Shamans]:
Memory. The ability to peer back in time. For information, techniques, bravery. But she used it in a way that Rags had never dreamed of.
The mortal world vanished, and Ulvama closed her eyes. When she opened them…
 
——
 
…a little Goblin wearing a mask with huge spider fangs in purple was tilting her head at Ulvama. The [Shaman] nearly jumped back, but the Goblin just crabbed forwards, nimble, sure of herself, and spoke.
“You is fat. What happen? Fat is slow. Why I get big fat Hob? Tall not worth it.”
She spoke in a chattering, fast dialect native to the tribes around the Molten Stone’s volcano without any of the deliberate diction or nuanced vocabulary Anazurhe kept trying to teach her. Ulvama stared, and her heart…oh, it hurt terribly.
“Hello, me.”
A ten year-old Ulvama scuttled around her older self as Ulvama’s eyes stung. She wiped at them, then yelped as a little clawed finger poked her hard, then retreated.
“Now you cry. Is waste of good water. You bad.”
“A lot’s happened. I…I wanted to speak to you. For wisdom. Because I’m having trouble.”
“Oh? With what? Big monster? You leading huge tribe?”
The younger Ulvama sat up, excited, and the older one stared at her. Yes, life had been so simple back then. She shook her head.
“No. A…a friend. A Human one. We were fighting.”
The young Ulvama stopped bouncing up and down. She lifted her mask slightly, exposing a smaller face, sharp teeth, and a ‘huh’ expression written all over her face. She was ten, which was old for a Goblin by many tribes’ standards. But not if they were allowed to have childhoods.
“…You ask me for advice with Ritual of Memory’s Self because you have fight with Human friend?”
“Yes, her name’s Erin and—bweh!”
Ulvama ate a rolling axe-kick from young-Ulvama. Straight to the nose. It hurt. She’d had no idea that your memory-selves could inflict damage! But she was talking to a [Shaman]!
“You stupid! You weak! You fat! Is this get old? I waking up and not being a [Shaman]! I being a [Witch] or [Warrior]! This the wrong future! Glad I found out!”
Young Ulvama hammered on the older Ulvama, punching and biting as the older one tried to get her off. It hurt! She started getting angry and hoped this damage wasn’t actually being inflicted on her body. Then the little monster bit her on the arm!
 
——
 
Bowom had been disappointed when they didn’t see anything happening and none of the [Mages] could find out what Ulvama was seeing.
He’d been about to start annoying the healer or the others when Ulvama began shouting and flailing in the middle of the ritual circle. Bowom beamed.
“They never let me down. Popcorn, anyone? Let’s see that armor, by the way. And I could use a mask! Something culturally insensitive.”
“What’s culturally insensitive to a Goblin?”
“Um…a Human’s face?”
“Ooh, I like that.”
 
——
 
Ulvama finally grabbed her little self by the leg. She still kept getting hit; the young [Shaman]-in-training was a whirlwind of martial arts blows and techniques she was being taught. All talent. All potential. Thinking she was the greatest thing in the world and that her tribe was the best in Izril.
The Hobgoblin wished she could go back so badly it hurt. But she snarled at Young-Ulvama.
“Listen, you brat. I’ll beat you like a bloated rat if you keep hitting me. Make me really mad and I’ll hit you so hard I develop a scar.”
The little demon stopped fighting her and hung there until Ulvama let her drop, then she sat, slightly respectful.
“That a good threat. Why you talk with non-Goblin words?”
“I’m…not around Goblins that much. I lost my tribe. My only friend is…Erin. Well, I have lots, but she’s the only one from Izril.”
“Oh, you left Izril! It fun?”
“Not…really? Some of it. The Fraerlings—”
“Eeeeeeeeeeee! You met Fraerlings!”
Then the little Goblin was agog with questions, asking all kinds of things, and Ulvama had to tell her a story. Exasperated after forty minutes, she realized she was getting nowhere.
What had she come here for? Just the pain of seeing the Young Ulvama smiling? Ulvama snapped.
“—And now we’re fighting. I came here and performed the ritual because…because there’s no one else to talk to who knows me. I came to you for wisdom.”
Clearly a mistake. The younger Goblin was rolling around Ulvama while cross-legged, too impatient to sit still. She rolled onto her back and stared at Ulvama, upside-down, seriously.
“You wise because I wise, old-me. I am young [Shaman], but I give wisdom! I think you should make up with weird scary awesome Human. There. Now tell me about cute hamster again.”
Ulvama slapped her face with a claw.
“I’m being serious, idiot!”
“Is am me too! You make up, all better.”
“It’s not that…easy. She said hurtful things. And I hurt her too. I’m afraid she’s going to kill herself.”
The little Goblin smiled at Ulvama.
“But she is best friend, yes?”
“Yes. I don’t know if that’s enough, though.”
“So? Who cares? You have Human friend! That amazing! Why you so sad? Why…what make you so sad?”
The young [Shaman] grew confused, then, genuinely. And Ulvama closed her eyes, and the Dreamleaf hanging around them like fog rippled.
“Thank you for your wisdom, myself. And…what changed? I suppose she would know.”
She called the second of her lives to her. This one she feared even more than the little Goblin whose beautiful innocence was a scar on her memory.
Only, the second Ulvama, Ulvama of the Mountain City tribe, did not appear before the older [Shaman] at once. Instead, a different memory played itself.
 
——
 
A Hobgoblin with an aura like war itself walked into the Mountain City tribe a week after the Goblin King died. He bore only a single blade on his back—a greatsword—and despite their numbers, despite their bravado and youth—not a single Goblin could meet his eyes.
Greydath of Blades made the [Shaman] hiding behind Tremborag shiver as the Great Chieftain rose. Tremborag feared Greydath, but there was also, the older Ulvama realized, a true and genuine distrust there. A contempt for what he thought the Goblin Lord was.
“So. You live, Goblin Lord of Blades.”
“Yes. I do not come here for succor, Tremborag. Merely to rest a day.”
The two spoke in Goblin, but Greydath’s voice contained eloquence far beyond even Anazurhe’s tribe. Tremborag glared as he sat himself, heavyset, unable to maintain his Fomirelin form.
“You live while the Goblin King and every single Goblin Lord with him dies. Why?”
“They would not run. They were drawn in by his madness or loyalty to Velan. Someone must wait for the next King.”
“Again and again. You’ve killed enough for other species to hunt us for a century. Leave quickly, Greydath of Blades.”
The two clashed with words, but Tremborag was no match for Greydath; even with his aura suppressed, Goblins were fainting. It sounded like he had brought the war with him. As if the beating of drums were his heart. His footfalls the march of legions.
He rested a day and left and only went to one [Shaman]’s abode to seek her magic. It was flattering, but mostly terrifying to Ulvama, the newly-inducted [Shaman].
Ulvama, watching Greydath now, saw how tired he looked. How much of his aura was a façade to scare the other Goblins. She remembered this. What he said next—
“Do you have a tonic to grow hair?”
“H-hair? Yes, I have…you, eh, you need it?”
Ulvama of the Mountain City Tribe had stared at Greydath’s hairline and had wondered if the mightiest Goblin Lord in the way of the sword was going bald. Not all Goblins had hair on their heads, though they had pubic and other hair just like Humans or other humanoid species. She’d thought she’d acquired some secret about him. When in reality…
“Ah. So that’s why you did it.”
The older Ulvama saw Greydath pocket the hair tonic and leave. Then the memory fast-forwarded to show her an old, senile Goblin with a grey beard laughing and dicing among the Goblins.
He looked half Greydath’s height and scrawny, and he was so jovially pathetic that Tremborag never glanced at him. Nor did the [Shaman].
So that was when Greydath had lain in wait in the likeliest tribe to bring word of a new, rising Goblin. Ulvama would have called it embarrassing, but the transformation was too good. No one would have thought Greydath an actor of that level.
She was about to break out of the memory when the [Shaman] strutting along with a bevy of her followers turned and walked out of her own memory.
Mountain City Ulvama was not the innocent, cheerful Goblin. She had power. Control. Experience—but she was like an open wound, guarded, suspicious. Even here.
“I have something else to show you.”
So saying, she took Ulvama’s hand and—
 
——
 
He was always the same Goblin too. But he’d not always been so round. In fact, the first time they’d met, the young Hob had been rather fit.
Ulvama, a fourteen year-old Goblin acting as a [Shaman] for the Dirtdagger tribe, had no real standing. Neither did he. Goblin tribes had been meeting to share resources and threats, and he had squatted down to watch her mixing paint as Anazurhe had once taught her.
After thirty minutes of watching, she’d snapped at him to either go away or bring her something useful. Whereupon he’d left for an hour and come back with some chalk.
That was how she met Pyrite. Even then, he was curious. And she was arrogant.
“I am [Shaman] of the Molten Stone tribe! You show me respect! You a no-name Goblin, yes?”
He nodded agreeably even though the truth was that she’d wandered too far from her home, run afoul of some Humans, and fallen in with a local Goblin tribe to survive. She still had the idea of going back to Anazurhe’s tribe to impress the Great Witch with a promising new tribe and get more training and equipment—but the Molten Stone tribe was far away, and she was needed here. Most Goblins had no idea of, well, anything. They lived and died like mayflies.
Pyrite was just one more of them, but he scratched at his stomach and grunted.
“No name Goblin. But I practice. Not very good, but I practice.”
“Practice. What you do that important?”
“Kill Gold-rank adventurer. Chieftain say I second-in-command.”
She paused, open-mouthed. 
“You practice and do that? How?”
He shrugged.
“Saw old Goblin swing a sword. Copy. Not very good, but it work sort of. Not very. Not very smart.”
He tapped his head, then asked her how magic was done and seemed disappointed to know how much magic was required instead of knowhow. That was the first time he saw her.
In the two years after that, Ulvama saw Pyrite several times and, once, in the company of an old Goblin, some wanderer who’d been showing him how to swing that sword. Encouraging him to start his own tribe.
“Even then, he had his eyes on Pyrite. But Pyrite didn’t think he was important.”
The [Shaman] in the memories nodded. Her face scrunched up with pain as they both knew what was coming next.
“Watch.”
 
——
 
The Humans were drunk again. Coming back from the fields, and she knew what that meant. The Goblin had been hiding in a corner of the basement, trying to saw at the iron chains on her legs. She kept staring at the tiny, tiny hole in the ceiling.
Too small for her to wiggle out of, even if she weren’t a Hobgoblin. She waited as the voices grew louder, and the little bit of magic she had left went to a single word that she wrote in the air and sent out of the basement they were keeping her in.
‘Help.’
Help hadn’t come. But if she believed it might, she could survive another day. Until they got tired of her or thought she was bearing a child. That’s when they’d kill a Goblin. She wasn’t sure if she was waiting for that.
The older Ulvama couldn’t look, but the younger one, re-living her memories, just raised her head.
“It wasn’t him.”
When the laughter and creak of floorboards turned to shouts of alarm, then cries of fear—hatred—and then pain, the Goblin woman sat up. If it was a monster—
Then she felt it. A wrathful flame blooming overhead, and she screamed for help. Screamed until the very foundations gave way and the massive Goblin, covered in the blood of her captors, crashed downwards.
His eyes were crimson, and steam was rising from his body as he grinned. For a moment, she thought it was the Goblin King himself. 
That was how she met Tremborag of the mountains. He tore the chains loose, and his tribe ransacked the farming village as she watched, numb. Not sure if she was alive.
“Join my tribe. Hurt them back. See?”
He pointed a finger and showed her how it should be done, and she heard Humans screaming as Goblins captured them. There was still a part of Ulvama who shuddered, who wanted to…
She followed the Goblin Chieftain to his mountain.
Ulvama was shaking. She looked away, but that was not what the memory was trying to show her. The naked [Shaman] turned.
“Look.”
 
——
 
When the new [Shaman] ran into one of Tremborag’s officers who’d survived a bloody brawl and come to her for treatment, she screamed and then hugged him. Which only made Pyrite’s bleeding worse. He grunted as she fished for a healing potion and poultice.
“What happened, stupid? How you get hurt?”
“Fight.”
He was heavier, with both muscle and fat, and poked in dismay at his belly wound.
“Need more fat. All muscle gets too hungry. Not enough armor.”
“Or get actual armor, dummy. What you doing here?”
He shrugged.
“Goblins get hunted after Goblin King dies. Have to hide.”
“Oh. My tribe died, and I—they capture me. But I get free.”
She looked away from him, then stood straighter, trying to smile. More than one of the Mountain City Goblins had been rescued like that. She was important, the 2nd-best [Shaman], and she was making allies. Tremborag liked her more than the old, male Goblin who was the chief [Shaman]. Soon—
Pyrite didn’t make a sound as she stitched up the wound she’d daubed the healing mixture onto.
“I know. Your tribe—we looked for you. Couldn’t find you. Sorry.”
“Oh.”
How much had he searched, she wondered? He had more scars. A lot more. But he hadn’t found her. Tremborag had. But for that…
The two sat in silence until Pyrite smiled.
“I meet funny Goblin here. Old man. Greybeard.”
“Eh. Same old Goblin teaching you sword? When he get beard? You not need him. Talk to Goblins I know. Very important. Must know right Goblins.”
“I do know right Goblin. He old.”
Pyrite protested in that contrary way of his as she scolded him and began to tell him how things worked. And perhaps, even then, he had known who Greydath was. But refused to answer the Goblin Lord’s demands. Perhaps he hadn’t thought he was worthy or ready.
Or maybe—the [Shaman] in the memories stumbled, and they shared a thought.
Perhaps it was what came next.
 
——
 
The last time Ulvama ever cleaned Pyrite’s wounds, it was after whispering in the ear of the two big Hobs clad in plate armor. She slipped into the jail cell, and he lowered the manacles on his wrists.
“Idiot!”
She rushed over; Pyrite’s nose was broken and a number of bones. He was a mess. She began to set what she could as he muttered.
“Not good. He’ll notice.”
“I’m his best [Shaman]. I’m fine. You’re the fool. You should never have challenged him.”
She spoke like a Human in the Mountain City tribe that aspired to humanity in all of its worst ways. Especially the worst. Pyrite grunted as she snapped a bone into place.
“Had to.”
Tremborag had never lost a challenge for his seat as Great Chieftain. Pyrite…he just lay there as she tended to him.
“I’m leaving, Ulvama.”
“Yah, you are. Those two idiots will fall asleep soon. You get out. No one sees you. And if they see you, they don’t see you or they get cursed.”
He glanced at her, surprised.
“Can you put the guards to sleep in the cells?”
“Are you mad?”
He exhaled and shook his head.
“Too much attention. I shouldn’t have mentioned them.”
He wanted to free the prisoners. Ulvama slapped his arm and glared at him, but Pyrite was just staring ahead.
“I’m leaving, Ulvama. I cannot be here. Cannot stop it. So—leaving. Starting my own tribe.”
“And doing what?”
“Don’t know. Mining, maybe. I like shiny rocks.”
“You idiot. You were important here.”
“Hurts heart too much. You come with me?”
He turned to her, and she hesitated, drew back, affronted.
“Me? Go with you to stupid new tribe? This is the biggest tribe in the north! Why…why would I leave?”
“Because you want to.”
Ulvama whispered as she watched her younger self hesitate, and a grimace of regret stole over her memory’s face. But Pyrite didn’t push. He never did.
She wished he had. If he had said ‘I need you’, just once…but he didn’t think like that. She was more important than he was, a nobody Goblin.
So he left. The next time they saw each other, they were at odds. And he had a new, young Goblin genius he was following, and she was angry and jealous and…
They never had that final conversation. Just two weary Goblins marching to escape Lord Tyrion’s army, trading glances, hoping their tribes survived.
That was how the second Ulvama walked forwards and stood in front of her. Ulvama of the Mountain City Tribe pointed at the silent Goblin rising from his cell.
“He was the only one who knew both my lives. I have made many mistakes. A Human? I used to want to meet them. Am I a fool?”
To that, Ulvama could only say:
“I don’t know.”
 
——
 
This time, she showed her past self the ship. The moment when she had chosen to go after Erin. And the Mountain City Ulvama was silent.
“She’s Human. You can’t trust her.”
“I didn’t trust Mountain City Goblins either. I didn’t trust anyone—but I couldn’t trust them. Tremborag took his revenge, and he made us just like our captors.”
The younger Ulvama turned her head away. The current Ulvama called out.
“I am guilty. It weighs on me more than anything else.”
“…Doesn’t matter.”
“It does! It does, or why did you never take part? Why did Pyrite care if it didn’t matter?”
Mountain City Ulvama hunched over and then sat, re-painting her arms. Tying her hair back, flaunting the beauty and every trick she had. Not like the young [Shaman] who ran around happily unserious. She eyed her older self critically.
“Soft.”
“That’s what younger-me said. I’m higher-level than you. I know more tricks.”
Mountain City Ulvama pointed, accusatory.
“No. I mean soft in being safe. You trust her too much. That woman is another Tremborag. When she gets tired of you, bring her back. Entice her. Be careful or she’ll take everything.”
“That’s not Erin.”
“That’s everyone.”
“Not Pyrite.”
Mountain City Ulvama turned her head away, crossing her arms.
“…He’s different.”
“How?”
“He’s…he was…stupid. Didn’t care about enough, including himself. That’s why he died. You want to die?”
The Ulvama of now bowed her head. She sat there, trembling, and then looked up.
“No. But I’m tired of having no one I trust at all. You know everything that has happened to me. What would you do?”
The Hobgoblin in the prime of her life eyed her older self, then gazed down at her hands. And she spoke with a sudden flash of honesty.
“I am unhappy. Bitterly unhappy. I will never trust again, I say. I will never love again, I say. I will never be happy again. I will never know true innocence or joy again. I will never feel safe again. Has…any of that changed?”
She peered at her current self longingly, and Ulvama stared back through her own memories.
“Today…I feel safe. I am not always. I am in danger again, sometimes. I cannot trust everyone. Nor am I always happy. But I saw lanterns flying in a festival, and I have friends. I—I am afraid of the future.”
“So don’t go.”
Another simple answer, but now, the Ulvama of the present was crying again. She wiped at her crimson eyes as the Mountain City [Shaman] watched her.
“I am afraid that if I don’t try, if I sit here forever, then I will never be happy. I could stay, but then I will be right here again.”
Sitting in the Mountain City tribe. The younger [Shaman] nodded slowly. She inspected her older self, then closed her eyes. When she stood, she was in the memory again, and Pyrite grunted as she helped him up.
“I’ll go with you. I cannot stay here either. I would rather leave than spend forever here.”
That was what the younger Hobgoblin said. She glanced back once and raised a hand. And her other self, surrounded by the fog of memory, wept.
Wept for a door that would never open. A time that never was.
When she opened her eyes—she was calm.
 
——
 
“Ulvama? Did you find what you needed?”
“Maybe.”
She smiled at Bowom, and that was the last time he ever saw her.
…For the evening, that was. Because she put the carved mask on her face, adjusted it, then had a [Woodworker] help her adjust and contour the mask. Changed the look of some of the paint, then exclaimed over the armor.
They had found a bunch of raw materials for Ulvama, but rather to everyone’s surprise, she didn’t ask for a more…revealing set of armor like some expected and, perhaps, hoped for.
Instead, the spider chitin set was, while lightweight, completely covering her skin, spiderweb clinging to the armpits and joints for padding. When Ulvama added on her magical paints to the armor, as if it were her skin, she resembled some wild creature herself, a spider with fantastical markings.
In fact—she even demonstrated a very creepy spider-scuttle while crouched over. She poked her head around a corner, peeking at the bemused Bowom. Then did a zig-zag dash after the [Summoner] who, it turned out, was arachnophobic.
“Gaaaah! What, did you unlock your previous life as a spider?”
“No. Just Molten Stone moves. Argh! My back!”
Ulvama held her lower back, which, it turned out, could not keep up with a Goblin a third of her age in terms of flexibility or energy. She needed to get back to her daily dancing and stretching. Bowom grinned as he came over.
“So that’s the battle armor you want to wear for tonight?”
The woman peered at herself in the mirror and saw a completely-covered Hobgoblin, who showed not an inch of flesh, wearing a mask from which only two crimson eyes shone. Hiding her.
She smiled at herself.
“Yah. This is what I want to wear.”
“What a tragedy for everyday life, then. You must have been entirely uncomfortable until now.”
His casual remark made all the Fraerlings turn to Bowom, then Ulvama. She lifted her mask up slightly so he could see her bared teeth.
“Maybe I was. But I trust you all, so I don’t need to look so good. Is…do you think Erin will be at the concert? Or is she still mad?”
Bowom glanced at the [Costumer], who was vibrating with the desire to speak, but three Fraerlings had a hand over her mouth. He casually flipped a scalpel in one hand.
“I think we’ll find a moment for you two.”
“Thanks, Bowom.”
She hugged him, and the [Mad Doctor] swept an arm out.
“Well, on with the show! Everyone used the bathroom? I don’t want any interruptions!”
“Oh! Good idea!”
Ulvama scrambled towards an unroofed bathroom, then pressed her gloves to the wall and climbed over it like, well, a spider. There was a scream from inside, and Bowom beamed as he palmed a delayed-action sleeping tonic into a bowl of punch. He began pouring everyone glasses.
“This should be good. To disaster or triumph tonight. Cheers!”

10.54 UEG (Pt. 2) (2025-12-31)

This was a story about Garry the Baker. But it was never just about Garry, because he truly didn’t care as much about himself as the people he wanted to feed. A world of only Garry was lonely and boring. If this one happened to revolve around him in some way, well, he had never asked for that. Never sought it except to make his will manifest and do what he felt was necessary.
—On his first full day in the Hivelands, the most important Antinium in Izril awoke. Surely, he was the most important by some metrics.
Who else was more famous? Many had heard of Bird the Hunter, seen that dread Antinium standing on Pallass’ walls. Countless military figures knew of Xrn the Small Queen, Klbkch the Slayer, Wrymvr the Deathless—and the Grand Queen was the figure who represented Antinium power.
But every child knew Garry’s name. Television was spreading across the world; Garry’s delivery had been witnessed by more people than the total population who knew the history of the Antinium Wars.
That was, of course, only one metric. What about levels? Well, of Izril’s Antinium…Garry was the third highest-level. Only the Small Queen and Wrymvr outlevelled him, and neither had levelled this rapidly in this millennia.
What, then, of political influence? All these factors might put Garry near the top of Antinium hierarchy, such as it was—but how much sway did he have in the Hives?
Ah—well. To answer that, one only needed to observe the Grand Queen in her palace of the Grand Hive, sitting on vast, million-thread pillows gifted to her from Chandrar, ensconced in huge golden robes that had cost hundreds of thousands of gold pieces to tailor to her size.
All this luxury and the ranks of her Custodium, armed with Klbkch’s signature dual blades and Prognugator-class—and the Grand Queen was gobbling a massive, massive amount of pork roast.
“Garry. This—mm—cooking. It is unspeakable. Indescribable! Succulent and dripping. How—erp—how is it that I have not understood the magnitude of your genius until now?”
She was feasting and, perhaps, hadn’t stopped since last night. Garry bowed smoothly, speaking up to her.
“Surely some food from the Free Hive was sent to you, Grandest of all Queens?”
“It was, it was. But not of this quality! It tasted impeccable, but this—explain.”
He tilted his head and smiled up at her.
“Ah, well, it occurs to me, Grand Queen, that nothing you ate was fresh. Bags of holding still do not prevent food from going stale or spoiling in most cases. I purchased a very special Chest of Holding to bring this feast. I have also levelled. This? This is a [Feast of Delights].”
“What a strange, useless-sounding Skill. And yet I find it important; thus, we, as Antinium, benefit. Does—does the Free Queen eat like this all the time?”
A note of jealousy and annoyance entered the Grand Queen’s tone, and Garry bowed again.
“As a matter of fact, Grandest Queen, she has only partaken of it once.”
Mostly because she wouldn’t stop eating, and both she and Garry had regarded it as a monumental waste of food. But it was his Skill, and the Grand Queen brightened up at this.
“Ah, then I shall partake of it many times. Baker Garry, you truly are a valuable—mm, pass that gravy, Custodium 23—specimen of your Hive. I rescind my statements as to your objectionable independence. Indeed, I should declare you the Grand Hive’s Prognugator!”
“Is Xrn not the Prognugator of the Grand Hive, Grandest Queen?”
“Yes…but we can have multiple, and she is weaker and objectionably annoying at times. What—what is that you keep calling me? Grandest Queen?”
“Is that not how I should address the greatest of Antinium of Izril?”
The Grand Queen’s mood was rapidly rising, and she waved a free feeler at him.
“Yes! Yes, this is proper treatment! You understand! Grandest Queen. I like this. You, Baker Garry, are the finest work that the Free Queen has ever created.”
“Xevccha.”
“What? Gseuntheit, I believe it is said.”
“Her name is Xevccha, Grandest Queen. I believe that she informed you of this?”
She had, but the Grand Queen had completely forgotten the Free Queen’s name. Garry saw her freeze up upon her throne and drop a bit of meat into the platter. She began to get angry again.
“Her—name? Yes, I recall, but as I said—she was not permitted to take one. I do not have—ridiculous. You clearly do not understand, since you are also named, but this is not done, Baker Garry.”
He tilted his head.
“How so, My Queen?”
“Among Queens, one does not take a name lightly. When a Queen names herself, it is for a great deed. I do not—when did this happen?”
Again, he bowed smoothly.
“Surely, the Grandest Queen understands the Free Queen, Xevccha of Liscor, chose her name after her many deeds. I am sure it does not offend you, Grandest Queen, for the actions of Xevccha are your triumphs. And that you do not have a name is also fitting.”
All the Antinium and some of the [Slaves] watching Garry were turning from him to the Grand Queen. Only the Centenium and other Queens had ever spoken to the Grand Queen thusly. But this Free Antinium…
He seemed unto a giant. A full inch and a half taller than any Worker and broad-shouldered, such that even the Soldiers shifted, uncertain of who was stronger. And his hat. It was a tower of white with a floofy bit at the top, and it was not even his other hat.
He smelled of bread. He smiled like it meant something, and in the face of the Grand Queen’s wrath as she leaned forwards, he did not flinch.
“How is my lack of a name when a lesser Queen has one fitting?”
“Why, a lesser Queen such as Xevccha may have a name, Grandest Queen, but yours is surely one that can only be taken after the greatest of all deeds. The conquest of all Izril, perhaps? That everyone expects your name at due time means that we accept other Antinium, such as myself, Pawn, Xevccha, taking their names as small things before the great one. Like a leaf blowing before the storm, why would we pay it any mind? This is exemplified by the fact that the Free Queen’s name was not known widely or remarked upon until now.”
Garry held up a finger and spoke like a [Sophist], and the Grand Queen visibly relaxed backwards and put two feelers together.
“…Garry. I have not often said this, but the Free Queen truly has outdone herself with her Autonomous Antinium project. I congratulate her fully, and thus myself, on sending her to Liscor. Once again, I welcome you to the Grand Hive and proclaim you are a valued Antinium on par with any other Hive’s Prognugators! Let it be known across all Hives! Now—will you make more food for me? I suppose I should allow you to visit the other Queens as Anand did…”
She was reluctant, and Garry bowed once more.
“I would indeed like to visit the other Hives, Grandest Queen. But I will leave all the food I have prepared with you, and make more for each of the other Queens, by your will.”
“Ah, ah. Thus, the tribute is all mine?”
“At least a week of feasting, even at the rate you are eating, Grandest Queen.”
She clapped her feelers together.
“This is good. This is very good. And I have my new auxiliary-[Slaves] to send as well! You shall do this, then come back and cook more, and then, perhaps, I shall allow you to return to the Free Hive. But your foods must be replicated. Do you…require anything?”
He tilted his head.
“Perhaps some ingredients or foodstuffs, my Queen. May I have permission to sequester any resources or go where I am needed? If I come up with any desserts after perusing the Hive’s foodstuffs, I shall of course deliver it first to you, then to the other Queens.”
“Of course, of course. Two of my Custodium shall escort your group of Painted Antinium wherever you go. Now, tell me. What is the next course of most deliciousness?”
“I believe the bread pudding, perhaps, Grandest Queen? You may wish to sleep after some time.”
If the [Feast of Delights] didn’t knock her out from pure sugar content, the food coma would rapidly. The Grand Queen was moving slower, but she lifted a feeler and then?
Garry had the run of the Hives and the favor of the Grand Queen on his side. So, then. Who had more authority?
Wrymvr? Xrn?
Or Garry? After bowing and retreating from her presence, Garry began to explore the Hivelands. And what he found was something different than the place Anand had described.
The Hives were changing.
Just like him.
 
——
 
The Grand Hive resembled, in many ways, a palace. It had not been like this when Anand visited. But from the Grand Queen’s abode, the Hive had begun receiving shipments of marble and other stones from the Hives.
They didn’t mind sending it; marble was a weak stone, but the pathways of the stuff and decorations hung on newly-built walls? Garry passed by a hundred paintings of rather amazing quality before he realized what these were.
“Ah. These were looted from Drakes during the last two Antinium Wars.”
The Grand Queen had just ordered them taken out of the Antinium stockpiles, which he had realized were vast beyond compare.
He was touring the Grand Hive with some Painted Antinium as well as two silent Custodium. They weirded out the Painted Antinium. The group of eight were all high-level veterans of Pawn’s self-chosen people—not the best-of-the-best, but still pretty elite.
One of them, Runearmor, had kept trying to engage the Custodium in conversation, but they were weird and rude.
“You have very pretty paintings, Custodium 8. Do you have a favorite?”
“No. Painted Worker Antinium will keep moving.”
“My name is Runearmor. Do you have a name?”
“I am Custodium 8. Designation: Killtori. Is talking required?”
“…Not with you lot, clearly.”
They were closer to Autonomous Antinium than real Individuals like the Painted Antinium, which was weird. Also, the Custodium seemed leery of Garry and the Painted Antinium. More than one had requested a ‘Combat Training Session’, which meant a duel.
They were fast and quick with their blades, but mostly around Level 20 at best. Not that any of the Painted Antinium here were over Level 30, but when Runearmor had beaten one of the higher-level Custodium, the Antinium had stood frozen in place for a good twenty minutes.
That was when their insistence on using their Custodium numbers instead of names became clear: Custodium 8 meant that Killtori was the eighth strongest among the Custodium.
Eighth best. Thus, eighth most-loved by their Queen. Hence preferring that over names. The least well-ranked Custodium used their names instead.
How painful.
To Garry, it all made sense. The Grand Queen was an overbearing figure. The Custodium wanted to please her, and clearly, they had been made well and with a lot of resources. Each one was like Ksmvr had been, or a mini-Klbkch. But they did not understand their Queen.
They could have won her favor with words far more easily than their obsessive practice with swords. But they were not thinking outside the box. They were not even aware there was a box. Their world was a one-way track, and little in the Grand Hive would change that.
Until now, perhaps. Garry had not missed the [Slaves] who stayed predominantly around the Grand Queen’s chambers. They cleaned, served food to the Antinium, but mostly seemed to stand around nervously, trying to find work in a Hive designed to fulfill every need.
“Let’s see. These are the stockpiles that Xrn enchanted. Ah. That is a lot of food.”
Garry opened one of the enchanted silos deep in the Grand Queen’s Hive and stared down. And down.
And down.
And after a bit, down some more. Garry had heard of the massive monster-nests in Liscor’s dungeon, the four super-nests designed to disgorge enemy monsters without end, like the Shield Spider nest that his people had fought for so long.
Each silo was about that big. Maybe not as wide, but driven so deep he doubted any bombardment spell or even an [Earthquake] spell had hopes of hitting it—and that was before Xrn had enchanted everything to the nines.
It was loaded up with food. And things he recognized as being invaluable to creating more Antinium: a goo that was made of processed nutritional ingredients that filled the Birther Sacs, even the weird, spidery ‘data’ that told a Birther Sac how to make a type of Antinium like spools of intricate words made up of spider webs.
He knew all this because the Free Queen sometimes told him about it. To even the Custodium, the sight of the Grand Hive’s precious resources was sacrosanct. Indeed, Custodium 8 drew a sword and placed it out, preventing anyone from walking into the silo.
“This area is off-limits to all Antinium but the Grand Queen and Centenium Xrn herself.”
Garry glanced down at the sword hovering an inch from his stomach. He pushed the blade down with a finger.
“The Grand Queen has allowed me access to all of the Hive. I am sure she will not mind.”
Interestingly, the two Custodium did dissent here. Custodium 11, who had a scar on one shoulder, spoke in an irritable click.
“We have guarded this location from all threats.”
“Such as what? Insects?”
“No. The magic laid by Centenium Xrn kills all non-Antinium. Including monsters and insects. But some survive the initial spells. We have killed 8 [Slaves] of Roshal who entered this location. None of whom obeyed commands to halt and possessed high, undisclosed levels.”
Garry turned his head, suddenly interested.
“Ah, spies. How did the Grand Queen react?”
“She questioned Roshal, who apologized. Not a single one has survived leaving their designated areas. We observe.”
Interesting. Garry would have assumed that spies would have gotten the view of the Hives, but it seemed like they weren’t prepared for the watchfulness of Antinium, who would notice if you left your assigned areas.
Custodium 8 felt the need to add more details to improve their pedigree.
“We have also slain 25 Antinium who have entered this location.”
“…Antinium? Why would they enter here?”
“They were attempting to reclaim stored goods.”
This time, the [Baker] paused, and a silence fell over the Free Antinium until Runearmor whispered.
“Oh. They were hungry.”
“They were amply fed. They were Aberrations and slain.”
Custodium 8 saw Garry walk forwards and extended his sword again, but the [Baker] just walked into it, and it didn’t leave a mark on his body. The [Baker] turned his head.
“They wanted to eat something other than nutritional paste. Hunger takes many forms, Custodium 8. I am going to see what is stored here.”
“You are not allowed—”
“Take it up with the Grand Queen.”
The two Custodium wavered as the Free Antinium followed Garry into the silo. After a moment, Custodium 8 turned and began to run back the way they’d come.
 
——
 
Garry noted Custodium 8 leaving, and when the silent Antinium came back, the [Baker] turned his head pointedly.
“She allowed me to stay.”
Dead silence. Neither Custodium halted him from touring the other silos. But they threw up a tremendous fuss when Garry started removing food from the silos.
“You are noT aLLowed to do that!”
Garry was hauling up bags of grain from one of the silos. It seemed the Antinium had either learned farming or just raided [Farms]. He pointed innocently to the bags.
“Take it up with the Grand Queen. Don’t worry, I shall inform her.”
That made the two Custodium freeze, and Garry walked past them and dumped more grain into his Chest of Holding. He helped the Painted Antinium carry it back to their wagon, then went to tell the Grand Queen.
 
——
 
“My Queen, I have removed one thousand sacks of grain from your silo.”
She had been snoozing off her food, but jerked upright.
“My what? My storage silo? That is for the war effort, Baker! We will sustain 600% output of Antinium for years if necessary to overwhelm Drake—removal of goods sets the Hive back!”
He bowed.
“I am sure the grain can be replaced, Grand Queen. But it occurred to me that I could make a wonderful dessert for you. Ice cream sundaes. There is a bread component to the waffle. As the grain is not difficult to replace, surely, I thought, you deserve such a rare and expensive treat.”
“Ice…cream? Ah, I have witnessed this on the televisions. I see, I see. A thousand bags? That is not difficult to—Custodium! I told you that Baker Garry could do as he pleased! Note the discrepancy and replace the food with fresh supplies. I await this dessert with great interest, Baker.”
“I shall prepare it at once, My Queen. Then visit the other Hives.”
The Grand Queen paused.
“Yes, yes, this is a good idea. Some of the Hives deserve it. Some. When you visit the Flying Queen, I will require a report on her progress. And ensure a good number of the gifts are allocated to her. That she knows I am favoring her, and that I await her reciprocity to the Grand Hive. Once…she has stabilized her Hive. Do mention that to her.”
Garry bowed as the Custodium shifted, gazing at him. With that, he guessed he was going to be able to make a lot of bread.
 
——
 
Before leaving the Grand Hive, Garry did take out the ice cream he’d brought with his supplies and added it to the ‘tribute’ for the Grand Queen. He packed it with ice and told the Custodium it should be served right away or kept frozen, then left them to deal with that.
In truth, Garry wanted to tour the other Hives. To see what Anand had seen and judge for himself before making any more moves. To that end, he left the Chest of Holding he’d filled with supplies behind and took the Painted Antinium and only his personal [Bag of Vast Holding]—with a few snacks—and began to march across the Hivelands to see the other Hives.
It was a lot of walking, which turned into jogging because Garry was trying to keep to his new routine. That cut the travel time, though the Painted Antinium had to catch up after an hour. It turned out that their weapons and armor made them even slower, and they complained Garry ‘ran too fast’ and for too long.
What Garry found was…interesting.
 
——
 
The Hives were changing. Put simply, it was that. But it was the Queens that led the change, or so Garry felt.
Not just the Grand Hive. He had assumed it was the influence of Roshal, but after visiting the next Hive, the Silent Queen’s domain, Garry realized it could not be.
—Or how else could he explain the almost pitch-black Hive, which was made of traditional packed dirt, but lacking the usual luminary moss? In fact, even the dirt was the blackest loam that the Antinium could find, making it impossible for him to see a thing, even with his low-light vision.
But the Silent Antinium saw. A duo of the fearsome, camouflaged Antinium materialized out of the darkness, skittering away from the Wand of [Light] he’d brought, and led him through corridors where Antinium with glowing eyes turned to him.
The Silent Queen’s domain? It was…pristine.
Austere. Garry gazed down at the strange, resinous white material clinging to the walls, the ground, which visibly darkened as he stepped on it.
“Kkch. Contaminants. I have, at last, recreated litv-gel or an approximate substitute. It has cut down on unwanted mold and micro-creature interference in projects by 88%. I welcome you, Baker Garry. You…you look different. What has the Free Queen been doing to your structure? She has not told me. I thought she would tell me everything this time.”
The Silent Queen was nimblest and smallest of the Queens, able to navigate her Hive freely. As such, she actually had the hugest corridors to accommodate her, but her workrooms were like an [Alchemist]’s dream.
Garry passed by silent, twitching Antinium being grown in more advanced Birther Sacs and presented the Silent Queen with a gift. He had come prepared; she barely glanced at some croissants and let her Silent Antinium fall on them and devour the baked goods.
Nor was she interested in the black liquid he provided, informing him that she had a hydrating gel that was being used instead of ‘water’—until he mentioned that coffee had caffeine in it. Then she drank a huge cup and instantly began demanding samples of coffee beans to isolate the compound she recognized as being analogous to—
“Czzrich! It is not very strong, but isolated? I could make an ampule. There is too much, too much to do, Baker Garry. It seems that I am the only Queen who devotes all of my time to recreating our work. I must work harder. You…what applicable Skills can you add to your food?”
“Very few you will find useful, Silent Queen. I do not wish to take from your work. I merely brought my gift and the Free Queen’s thanks for your profound efforts.”
She smiled at him, but guiltily, and rubbed her feelers together as she worked, grinding together ingredients plucked from grow-rooms.
“Xevccha speaks well, but you see an amateur working with base materials. Observe how I must grind and distill each resource? It is akin to scraping mold off stones to create your food.” 
Garry paused, but the Silent Queen was serious, so he coughed into one fist.
“That is how some food is harvested, Silent Queen.”
She turned, utterly shocked.
“Is it? How inefficient! My analogy was of quality, however. The variance in mold types that can grow on rocks.” 
“I worked in that sector before becoming a [Cook], Silent Queen. Only one batch in a thousand ever has to be thrown out due to the wrong mold germinating.”
She waved a feeler at him admonishingly.
“Even your dataset is revealing. What is the word in this language? 0.1%? Far, far too high. Antinium Shaper Queens do not work with such variances except under extreme duress. I am the only Queen to insist on standards! Mold grown on rocks. Not even in sealed chambers, no doubt.”
She mulled on this objectionable state of affairs before shaking her head briskly.
“Our food production is not my domain. I should, perhaps…no, too many projects. Too little time. At least discoveries are occurring again. I credit this gel’s production from a Runner who delivered nuanced information to Xrn last year. As well, the Free Queen supplying alchemical products.”
So the Free Hive had helped in this? Garry smiled, but the Silent Queen was still morose, for all her achievements.
“No tools. No techniques. Yet we create and create again—she is welcome. My work is useful. Have you observed Klbkchhezeim’s new form? If all Antinium were as he was, we would approach a fraction of our old strength. And even this is a mockery of his abilities.”
She paused, then rubbed her feelers together.
“I am told I ‘complain too much’. By the Grand Queen. You had gifts of sustenance for me, Baker?”
“I…yes, Silent Queen. Of the Free Queen’s appreciation to you. I also come with gifts of my own.”
“Oh? What, then? A book?”
The first Hive in which Garry trialed his book was the Silent Hive. The Silent Queen was dubious about the book, but a bevy of gifts made her change her mind.
Not the food, actually. She sampled more of his food, but the coffee really had been the only thing she liked.
“Pleasing sustenance is but sustenance. I can generate materials which stimulate pleasure sectors if I choose, Baker Garry.”
“Well, that’s one way to approach life, Silent Queen.”
Rather to both’s amusement, both Queen and [Baker] realized they had exact opposite classes and personalities. However, Garry had a good deal of respect for the Silent Queen given her support of the Free Queen. And whatever misgivings she had about his class with its silly ‘food preparation’ focus, he had a trick or two up his sleeves for dealing with surly Queens of any kind.
[A Magical Gift]. The moment he conjured a weird, eggsac-like container out of the air and blinked at the odd ‘gift’, the Silent Queen went nuts.
“What is that? What is—did you just create a vith-container out of nowhere?”
“I…yes? It was meant to be a gift, Silent Queen. But it normally comes wrapped like a regular present.”
This looked like, well, an egg. It had a black, weirdly hexagonal coating over it, and the Silent Queen practically snatched it out of his hands. She ran a feeler over it, and Garry saw the eggshell was, in fact, a box as the weird chitin layer retracted.
“T-this is filled with mkxx. Forgive me, the correct words are not translatable in this tongue. H-how? This is exactly the kind of thing I cannot create! I must store it, no, [Reverse Analysis]! To my labs!”
She was scuttling away so fast that Garry had to run after her to beg permission to read his book, and the Silent Queen turned at the door.
“What? A book?”
She rushed over to see his book and read through the short story of Calby in moments…then paused.
“This is a work of fiction. Utterly useless to my needs. You wish to read it…? Go ahead. If it motivates my Silent Antinium to level in any way, I shall entertain the Free Queen’s Autonomous Antinium project. Baffling, baffling. But your class…how many more gifts can you give me? How often?”
“I can now do one per day, Silent Queen, but I do not give them to the same person over and over. That reduces the value.”
“What about one Silent Antinium in my Hive every day? No? It does not work like…your class mystifies me, but I acknowledge its value. I shall consult about more such gifts later! I have work to do!”
She scuttled off in moments with some of her Silent Antinium helpers, leaving Garry with another Hive he had free access to. He wondered what mkxx did.
 
——
 
Then Garry read a story. He sat with Painted Antinium and Silent Antinium, having found a barracks where they were allowed to rest and perform small activities, much like the Painted Antinium’s barracks in the Free Hive.
This was not by accident; the Silent Queen had ordered experimental areas designed to replicate the Painted Antinium’s success; why would she not? But it might have still been a failure given her lack of understanding of her own Antinium’s feelings—except that some helpers had taken it upon themselves to furnish said rooms.
Even to add painting stations and Fortresses of Fluff. These were, of course, Painted Antinium.
Not just Runearmor and the bodyguards for Garry, but another group of Painted Antinium. Barely sixty in number; they consisted of a single [Priest] named Golden Bloom and a number of [Crusaders] and Painted Antinium to replace the band that had gone out with Anand—all of whom were presumed dead as only Wrymvr had returned.
They had painted those Antinium’s colors on the barrack walls. Garry understood there wasn’t much for them to do here, so they spent their time making more Painted Antinium in the Hives they were friendly with—mostly the Grand, Armored, and Silent Hives—and fighting monsters.
“It is very boring at times, Baker Garry. Not to mention lonely; we miss Liscor. I am cognizant that we are doing good work here. The Antinium Workers and Soldiers have no Pawn, but please request other Antinium to replace us when you return?”
Garry promised he’d talk to the Free Queen about this to Golden Bloom’s clear relief. He mentioned he hadn’t seen any Painted Antinium among the Silent Antinium; given their stealth abilities, it probably conflicted with their purpose. Golden Bloom smiled as the Antinium gathered around.
“Oh, their paint is only visible to their eyes. The Silent Queen generated it for us.”
That was kind of her. Yes, that was what Garry liked about the Silent Queen, even if he found her removed—she did not understand, but she attempted to aid in projects she deemed necessary. He nodded at Golden Bloom.
“It is my hope this book will allow you to read to Antinium in the Hives as they work. One question, though, Golden Bloom. Why did you decide to stay here?”
In the dark Silent Hive? The Grand Hive was far more central, but Golden Bloom just glanced at the two Custodium escorting Garry before whispering.
“The Grand Hive is less…pleasant. It is easier to be somewhere the Grand Queen is not thinking of you.”
“Ah, understood.”
“We would have gone to the Armored Hive, which is arguably even more pleasant, but we elected to stay in the Silent Hive instead, after a vote.”
“…Why?”
Golden Bloom gestured covertly at the Silent Workers, Soldiers, and specialists with their scythe-arms. All of them had a sleeker, more compact design, even the Workers, who were semi-camouflaged despite the reading candle Garry had lit. Golden Bloom whispered.
“Garry. My friend, it’s the one perk of being in the Hivelands. The Silent Queen’s Hive? They’re all ladies. We have been flirting with The Book of Carnal Intercourse nonstop!”
He waggled his antennae at Garry as the [Baker] gazed at him in silence. After a few moments, Golden Bloom cleared his throat and stepped back. Garry decided to read his book.
 
——
 
The Silent Queen found Garry sitting and reading his silly little story about Calby for the third time to Silent Antinium. And she did not understand.
“It is enjoyed? Good, good. I must determine the best use of this mkxx. I am almost tempted to synthesize it into a combustible form. But the potential uses in creating a limited-number of Antinium or reverse-engineering it…it is a pity I did not have some during the last two wars. I could have stress-tested Manus’ so-called impregnable walls.”
Well, that wasn’t concerning at all. Garry reflected that his gifts might be, uh…powerful, but as he addressed the Silent Queen, he had some satisfaction in her reaction as well.
A number of her Silent Antinium scuttled after Garry, or rather, the book. Even when he handed it off to Golden Bloom for a re-read, they followed him, to the Silent Queen’s bemusement.
“I read and analyzed the contents of the book, Baker. What could it give my Antinium? It is a nonsensical tale without code, application, or function.”
“Perhaps, Silent Queen, it is that it spoke to them and not to you.”
She pondered this, rubbing her feelers together.
“Moments like this make me wish the Unitasis Network were all-encompassing and permanent instead of a limited send-recieve as we Queens can generate alone. It is lonely. We are so much lesser than we were. If it gives them something, let it be read, Baker. You have my gratitude. Someday, I hope we shall reclaim the might of True Antinium of Rhir. It will be beyond anything you have dreamed of.”
She smiled. The power to crack a Walled City. Creation of individuals as terrifying as Klbkch. That was the Silent Queen’s dream. What a thought. But Garry realized…that was the position of the Queens here. The Antinium who drove fear into Drakes’ hearts, such that a single one could throw a continent into panic?
It was nothing. Nothing compared to what had been.
 
——
 
The Flying Queen’s Hive was proof of that as well, but instead of being an obsessive laboratory and dark bastion, hers had changed into a flurrying frenzy of Antinium who leapt and dove. No one tunnel for them; her Hive had altitude to it. Antinium jumped off huge ledges in empty chambers, buzzing down into the right tunnels. Garry had to climb down walls of dirt as they flew past him, but there was plenty of light to see by; they hung from vast glowbulbs.
Too much light, really—but the light was there to frame…statues.
Images of Devrkr the Glowing and wild sculptures he was told were fearsome Antinium of old. Not made by the Flying Queen. They were sculpted by the Antinium of the Flying Hive, and they were the most individualistic he’d met.
Fifteen Prognuators introduced themselves to him. Each one of them had apparently risen to their rank by unseating ‘unfit’ Prognugators, and every single one of them had a unique limb or body part. They were not, in fact, traditional Prognugators at all—being made for the role—but like Pawn, they were Antinium who had attained Individuality by themselves.
Incredible changes, but the cost was literal chaos in the Flying Queen’s Hive, a sense of visible disorganization where Workers sometimes milled about, seeking orders because they’d had the wrong ones.
Experimentation without control. Expansion without limit. The Flying Hive thrummed, and not without reason; they’d been attacked by the other Hives multiple times, and the Flying Queen herself was visibly…nervous when Garry paid tribute to her.
She devoured the Turkish delight after checking it wasn’t poisoned and was mollified when he assured her the Free Queen had not sent him to harm her.
“These hostilities—regrettable! She did not find any Flying Antinium? The ones with flight-capabilities? Truly? What about the ones who aided you?”
“I have no idea where they went, Flying Queen.”
“Hm.”
She peered at him hard, and he wondered if she would call the obvious lie, but it seemed that for all her unique Hive, the Flying Queen still had little experience with an Antinium lying to her. She chattered as her Hive buzzed around her, bringing her reports.
“You visited the Silent Hive first? The Silent Queen and her new litv-gel. I tried it, you know. Too easily contaminated, too much waste in creating sterilized environments. So what if it was how Shaper Queens once did it? The variations in each gestation cycle can lead to incredible improvements! She’ll see. They’ll all see. Flight is within possibility! The rogue specimens prove that! I just need a few more to figure out what was done…not just that. I have a hundred different projects going at once. How did the Spiked-Projectile Test C%5 go?”
She turned, and one of the Prognugators scuttled over to whisper. The Flying Queen had proto-wings, Garry saw, and they buzzed.
“Krxsching tests. Reprocess. Try again with, um, 50% less isteh. Redesign firing ports.”
“Could the Antinium who failed not still be used, Flying Queen?”
The Flying Antinium Prognugator halted when Garry stepped in front of her, but the Flying Queen raised a feeler.
“What? No. Lifespans are measured in weeks. They don’t even have fully functional minds. Inefficient. Setbacks, Baker. You can see that sacrifices have to be made. Tell them that. The Solstice event? Regrettable, but victory was attained. And a Centenium has returned to us! Devrkr the Glowing!”
All the Antninium’s wings thrummed as she raised her feelers, and Garry saw a being standing above him—a huge, truly pillbug-shaped Antinium with glowing eyes and a body that was illuminated from within—staring down at him from a tunnel. The massive Antinium turned, and Garry addressed the Flying Queen.
“I would like to speak to Devrkr, if that is possible, Flying Queen.”
She twitched and spoke nervously.
“What? No. Impossible. Devrkr is very moody. Restless. Utterly loyal to me. You’ve seen him. Report back. No, wait. Leave more of this ‘sweet’ food. Very commendable, your work. I shall eat whatever you send. I wonder…can I use this in an experiment? Put this in Vats $44-88—”
She handed some Turkish delight to one of her Prognugators, and Garry turned, but the mysterious reborn Centenium was gone. He began to see why the Grand Queen was stressed. The Flying and Silent Queens were so totally opposite…
And whatever issues the other Hives had with the Flying Queen, it was clear that despite her social isolation, and her chaotic Hive, hers had a level of power that rivaled the Grand Queen herself.
At least, in theory.
 
——
 
Devrkr the Glowing had returned. Only, Garry was not allowed to see the mighty Antinium. He rather resembled a pillbug mixed with an alchemical experiment; he could apparently generate countless poisons or compounds in his body, and he was swifter than he seemed.
Garry knew this because he spotted Devrkr watching him several times as he toured the Flying Hive, telling his story and giving out gifts to the Flying Queen’s subjects. But each time Garry approached, the Centenium vanished.
“Is he…reclusive? What is he like?”
Garry turned to one of the Flying Queen’s Prognugators, and the Antinium instantly grew evasive.
“Devrkr is as Devrkr was.”
“Ah, are you old enough to remember him from before the First Antinium War?”
“I? No, I was created in the last two months. But Devrkr is the Centenium, reborn thanks to the Flying Queen’s wisdom! My body is proof of that. His secretions enable the Flying Queen to create Antinium of surpassing value. Even the Silent Queen cannot keep up!”
Certainly, this particular Flying Antinium had a weird, silvery chitin that he claimed was stronger than any other Antinium’s.
“It has survived attacks from the big red birds, Custodium blades, and even Wrymvr’s blow.”
“You sparred with Wrymvr?”
Garry was impressed by this, but the Flying Prognugator, Rittv, hesitated.
“He struck me once upon my request. I did nearly die, but I am proof of the Flying Queen’s genius! I unseated a traditionally-made Prognugator before me.”
The hierarchy again. Garry was impressed.
“How many more of your kind will be made, then?”
“More…? Just me. Devrkr only secreted enough of the compound for one group of Flying Antinium, and I alone survived my batch.”
“Can he not make more of the same if it is so effective?”
Again, Rittv revealed the weakness of the Flying Hive in the long pause.
“The Flying Queen is…uncertain as to the exact conditions that created my form, as well as Devrkr’s compounds. They are both attempting to replicate my success, as are the sub-Queens. It shall happen!”
Interesting. Devrkr didn’t know what he’d done? Or the Flying Queen couldn’t recall or reproduce her works. Then Garry caught onto something he’d heard.
“Sub-Queens?”
 
——
 
There were three Queens in the Flying Hive aside from the Flying Queen herself. That alone should have made the Hivelands explode with new Hives and redeemed the Flying Queen’s disgraceful conduct at the Winter Solstice.
However, she hadn’t introduced the Queens to the others yet. Which had the Grand Queen agitated. She probably suspected the Flying Queen was holding them back due to the infighting, and this was partly true, but the other reason the Flying Queen was holding them in her Hive was obvious to Garry.
Like Devrkr, the gifts of Kasigna had not been perfect.
“Hello, little Worker-Baker. I am Rebithia. Sub-Queen of the Flying Queen, most glorious and imaginative Queen of them all. What is this foodstuff you offer? Does the Flying Queen have more lessons for me? Her experiments in Batch &55 have not gone…ah, well.”
The Queen who called herself a fairly non-Antinium name was small! She was, in fact, barely ten feet tall, and she never stood at her full height; she crawled around like, well, an Ant-queen, only with the ability to sit, and with rather delicate feelers, she was tending to a Birther Sac with.
One look at her and Garry understood that the Free Queen and all the others had forced their growths on their bodies at great cost. This was what a regular Queen looked like: more of a worker like Octavia than some imposing broodmother.
They could lay eggs, and in fact, that was what Rebithia was doing; tending to eggs growing in Birther Sacs with additive compounds. But she was also entirely…wrong.
“Hello, Queen Rebithia. I have a present of cake, if you would like to try it…?”
She was delighted by the cake and devoured it after tasting a sample.
“Such a delicious thing! So wonderful. Oh. It is gone. Can more be made?”
When Garry revealed the recipe was easy enough, Rebithia excitedly cleared an area in the huge laboratory she was working in and mixed up some cake batter under his tutelage. She liked cooking so much, in fact, she called the other two sub-Queens over.
Prixima and Wixv were both eager, excited, and adoring of the Flying Queen. They were smart; they could memorize the cake recipe in moments, clearly knew how to make new Antinium, and had no problems with mobility.
And they had no recollection of Rhir whatsoever. Garry brought it up despite the watchful Flying Antinium, who were clearly here to make sure he didn’t learn anything that would harm their Hive’s reputation. But they couldn’t stop him whispering to the sub-Queens when they were building a primitive oven for the cake.
“Is this much like food back in Rhir, Queen Rebithia?”
She patted some clay bricks into shape and answered cheerfully.
“I do not know! The Flying Queen remembers much, but I was simply created at the Winter Solstice. She has bade us not to tell other Queens that she promises to introduce us to—once we know enough. I do not think Devrkr remembers much either. He often comes by. He is…sad.”
“But you are telling me, Rebithia?”
She clacked her mandibles, amused.
“You are not a Queen, are you, Baker Garry? Or Custodium. We obey the Flying Queen’s instructions perfectly! She would like to make more of us, but sadly, creating another of us is difficult. Very difficult. Prixima sacrificed a feeler, but we have made little of it.”
And that was the Flying Queen’s great weakness. She was a lot of potential, but her ability to carry through?
She had three Queens and a Centenium, none of whom were the legends of old. Garry left it at that as Flying Prognugators buzzed around him and herded the excited sub-Queens back to work. He weighed reporting this to the Grand Queen, but decided he’d play dumb.
At least the Flying Antinium loved his book; the sub-Queens didn’t understand it, but enjoyed the story, whereas Garry had to shoo off Flying Antinium who wanted to follow him back to the Grand Hive after he left.
Lonely Antinium, regardless of all the changes in the Flying Hive. He told the Grand Queen he was very impressed by Devrkr and the sub-Queens without revealing their weakness.
The Free Queen could make her decisions based on this knowledge, but Garry didn’t care for the Flying Hive one bit. Not the Flying Queen’s braggadocious nature and lack of follow-through. It reminded him a lot of the Earthers when they’d first come to Erin’s inn. And second?
…They looked like flies, alright? Garry hated flies in his kitchen. But that was how he found the Flying Hive.
As for the Twisted Queen, he’d heard stories. But he didn’t get to meet her; he never even got close to her Hive.
 
——
 
An earthquake had apparently sealed the Twisted Hive’s connection to the Grand Hive, and it had yet to be cleared. Which was fine; even the Custodium hadn’t exactly volunteered to escort Garry there.
Undeterred, the [Baker] had been marching over the dry, blasted surface of the Hivelands towards the Twisted Hive. He’d been told it had been meeting supply quotas from the Grand Hive, but that the Twisted Queen was even more silent than usual, although her Antinium had been less…odd of late.
He’d also been told by everyone, including the Grand Queen, that visiting her was not only a waste of time, but might be hazardous to his health—mentally, if not physically. Garry had been going anyways when he heard a tremendous thrumming of wings and a roar that had made all the Painted Antinium freeze.
Wrymvr the Deathless landed like a comet on the ground and knocked everyone except Garry backwards in a cloud of dust. His voice came from his many mouths as the being created of a dead Wyrm, the immortal guardian of Queens, spoke.
“Baker.”
(Baker Garry. Turn back. Twisted Queen does not desire to see you.)
His ‘voice’ came at Garry twofold, and his mental tone was far more eloquent than his verbal one, although it was still short, decisive. Garry lifted a hand.
“Hello, Centenium Wrymvr. I have come with gifts for the Twisted Queen. I greet you and have offerings for you as well.”
He made to walk around the Deathless and got the distinct impression he surprised the vast Antinium before a long claw-scythe extended and blocked his way.
“No.”
Garry pushed at the claw-scythe and then winced.
“Ow. That’s sharp.”
He pushed the arm down instead. This time, Wrymvr shuffled to watch Garry jog around his body. The Deathless leapt up—landed. Blocking Garry’s path.
“Leave.”
“I merely wish to see the Twisted Hive.”
Garry met the ‘eye’ pulsing at him through one of the gaps in the vast, armored body. Sixteen mouths buzzed at him as the Painted Antinium backed up.
“You. Annoying. Me.”
“We are very sorry, Centenium Wrymvr! We are going now, right, Garry? We must excrete rapidly!”
Runearmor waved all four arms as Garry tilted his head. The [Baker] smiled at the Deathless.
“Can I offer you some Scaethen Bread, Deathless?”
He produced a glowing red loaf. Wrymvr accepted it into a gnashing mouth, chewed, swallowed. A gurgle ran through his body.
“Acceptable. Leave.”
“I would like to present the Twisted Queen with—”
Garry walked sideways, and Wrymvr scuttled left. Blocked him. Garry tilted his head again.
“Why is the Twisted Queen so insistent on not seeing me in person?”
“Dis-interested.”
“I am very interested in seeing her. The Free Queen has bade me deliver food for everyone.”
“I. Deliver.”
“I should do it myself.”
The two stared at each other. Wrymvr’s mind pulsed at Garry, a thought that was direct and almost…amused.
(Anand was not so bold. I am not a Queen, [Baker]. You have no value in war. Leave. We have no use for you.)
Garry dipped his head.
“I am aware. But I wish to see the Antinium of the Twisted Hive. The Queen I may take or leave. Excuse me.”
So saying, he put his four hands on Wrymvr’s side and pushed. One side of the Deathless’ body moved ever-so-slightly—and he put his right side down hard. He didn’t move.
Garry’s feet dug into the ground as the Painted Antinium and Custodium ran back, watching. The [Baker] pushed harder, and Wrymvr’s feet didn’t move. The two were silent as Wrymvr clicked from a dozen mouths.
—After ten minutes, Garry backed up. He jogged left. Wrymvr flew left. He jogged right. Wrymvr flew right. He pushed, and one of Wrymvr’s feet tore out of its anchor-hold in the ground.
At last, Garry stepped back.
“Hmm.”
(Strange [Baker].)
The two regarded each other silently. Garry adjusted his hat.
“I would like to see your Workers and Soldiers.”
Wrymvr’s mental tone was amused, but guarded.
(They are not being ‘mistreated’. Leave.)
“I could ask the Grand Queen to give me permission to visit. I am sure that might be…problematic for you.”
This time, Wrymvr scuttled forwards a few steps until he loomed over Garry, but his mental tone was light. Even playful.
(I could ask the Grand Queen how much grain goes into a ‘waffle’. I am sure that might be…problematic for you.)
Garry tilted his head. Wrymvr clicked in distinct amusement. The [Baker] folded his arms.
“I have your word that the Twisted Antinium are well?”
For answer, Wrymvr sent him an image of Antinium doing mostly Antinium-things. Harvesting insects, growing mushrooms and mold, tending to Birther Sacs—they looked mostly like Free Antinium with minor variants, but not the horrors that Anand had mentioned.
(New Antinium are only Worker-Soldier variants. No additional combat forms needed at this time. Desist, strange [Baker]. You are not Him.)
The ‘Him’ came with another image, regret, nostalgia, longing—and a certainty that Garry was going to start pushing his luck if he kept going.
Garry decided that was all he was going to get. He backed up, then began unloading his food for the Twisted Queen.
“Please share this in your Hive as you see fit, Wrymvr. Good day to you. If you would ever like to sample my food, please ask. Oh—”
He half-turned as Wrymvr began forming the food into a ball so he could fly off with it. Garry glanced back at Wrymvr.
“Tell me. You are one of the three Centenium remaining. Four, excuse me, with Devrkr. I have met Klbkch and Xrn. You three are different, high-level. The Queens seem industrious and loyal. Purely out of curiosity, how much does this resemble the Antinium that once were? I never asked Klbkch, but his stories make it seem very different.”
“Kzkch. Quantify question.”
Wrymvr rumbled as his wings beat, and Garry shrugged.
“Upon a scale of one to a hundred?”
The Centenium thought about it as he hovered in the air. All the Painted Antinium and Custodium peeked over a ridge of dried dirt, wondering if Storytime Wrymvr would appear to enlighten the world with his nostalgia. The Deathless of the Antinium spoke, just once, before he leapt into the air.
“Two.”
Garry craned his head backwards to watch the Antinium flying off back towards his Hive. He turned and shook his head.
“Well. No wonder the Centenium are so grumpy.”
He was trudging back when a faint voice spoke in his mind.
(They are grumpy. I am preparing. Keep distracting the Drakes, amusing, useless [Baker]. Anand was what we waited for.)
Garry spun on his heel and almost went running back towards the Twisted Hive, then caught himself. The Custodium were watching him. He trudged back the way he’d come, thinking.
Could it be? That did lighten his heart.
So did the final Hive, which he found he liked the most. At the end of his long day, Garry the Baker had one conversation he treasured with the only Queen he truly liked in the Hivelands, and he did a small thing with his hands.
 
——
 
The Hivelands were changing, varied, and vast, and perhaps, in the sea of Antinium, there were some who were like Garry, emerging or longing to exit the hole they found themselves in.
He didn’t know. Garry had given out food, and he would make bread to hand out, and he had asked for volunteers to read his storybook in the Hives he had access to; the Painted Antinium were only too willing to do that and preach their own ways to the Antinium they came across.
Garry was less happy about that, but he supposed a life as a Painted Antinium was better than not. He just disagreed that Pawn’s flock had all come to his point of view out of the pure, theological strength of Pawn’s arguments.
But then, what did Garry know? He loved Pawn like a brother, and if he didn’t get into debates with Pawn, it was just because the Free Hive didn’t need that kind of strife. Plus, he was pretty sure Pawn would curl up into a ball again if he lost.
Garry had a lot of opinions.
Garry saw a lot of things. But like a good [Baker], like a good salesperson, he didn’t share his opinions with his clients, who were everyone. He knew how to handle the Grand Queen. One did not survive Liscor’s streets, even in the Antinium’s district, without handling a few ornery customers.
“There was this Gnoll who’d come by and harass my storefront every day. He’d kick dirt at my stall, make rude comments, hassle my guests…”
He was relating the story to the other Painted Antinium as they walked, more slowly, towards the Armored Hive, which was actually one of the closest ones to the Grand Hive. But they were slow because the first shipment of the Grand Queen’s new ‘project’ was coming with them.
[Slaves]. They had on collars and, sometimes, bracelets and ankle-manacles which could be affixed with chains. Most were younger; Garry imagined the sea voyage would kill any older passengers, and they had probably been selected with physical fitness in mind.
What interested him was that the Grand Queen had selected the Armored Queen to receive the first selection of [Slaves]. That indicated the Armored Queen was most favored of the Queens—and that the Grand Queen wanted to win her over.
The second interesting thing was this: the [Slaves] were carrying some of the supplies they had brought. Cooking material, sleeping equipment like bedrolls, most of it so they could perform functions for their new owners. It was a heavy burden, and no less than eight Custodium and sixty Soldiers were accompanying the group.
And three of the Custodium were carrying supplies. A dozen Soldiers as well. In fact, a rolling cart was being pulled by two Soldiers, and several [Slaves] were sitting on it.
Odd. Garry noticed Custodium 8 was actually walking in the middle as a young Stitch-boy limped while holding onto his shoulder. The [Baker] kept his story going as they approached the Armored Antinium’s domain. Several armored Workers pointed bows at them, and one of the Custodium leapt ahead to make contact.
Patrols. Fortifications. Barricades of stone, which they passed by in increasing number as they headed towards the Armored Hive. The Armored Queen was definitely the most battle-ready. Garry kept talking as an Armored Prognugator came to escort them.
“Not just Gnolls. I had a Drake woman who hated Antinium and told me I was a monster every day for months.”
“That is very upsetting, Baker Garry. Did you call the Watch on them?”
Runearmor turned to Garry, mandibles open in surprise. Garry smiled at him.
“At first. It did not work and, in fact, only encouraged them. In time, I believe the Gnollish community informed my first harasser to stop bothering me. As for Miss Riclaw? I eventually got her to try some of my cooking. I befriended her.”
“After she was so mean to you?”
“Yes. Her son died in the first Antinium War. She had every reason to hate me. It took months, but she eventually tried my cooking one day and then told me she’d stop visiting me. I see her now and then.”
The Painted Antinium eyed each other.
“But she was very mean to you. And you said that the Watch was called on your store sometimes to inspect your food. And someone threw things at your stall at night. Was that not her?”
“It might have been, and I suspect so, yes.”
“Then you should take vengeance! As Erin did to Lism!”
Garry’s antennae rolled in a circle, much like someone rolling his eyes.
“Not everything is about victory or defeat or revenge, Runearmor. My point is that the Queens are much like that.”
“…How so?”
Egad. Maybe Pawn should send his Painted Antinium to enter the workforce more often. All they did was pray, train, and fight, right? Garry was pretty certain that if he’d just related the same story to Silveran or any Antinium who worked in Silveran’s Cleaners, they would have understood the metaphor.
He was getting more critical of Pawn’s faith. He had already been critical of the Hives, and…maybe he was becoming more independent in his way. Like Bird. But Garry had a lot to say about Bird too. If anyone wanted to hear his opinion on how Bird dealt with her emotions by shooting her namesake just because she was jealous of them being able to fly—
That was why it was silly when people called him ‘Santa Garry’ or said ‘Garry Christmas’. He’d take the name. He’d take the idea, but he was a deeply petty person with tons of flaws. Ask anyone.
Garry didn’t have high expectations of the Armored Hive after a full day of wandering around and understanding the Hivelands truly were in a state of peace as a holding pattern before the next war. A people trying to reclaim greatness. A sword trying to swing through a continent, only hampered by what it had lost.
That was why he thought the Armored Queen would grate most on his nerves. She was the most warlike Queen after all, wasn’t she?
Only…when Garry saw the entrance to the Armored Hive, he realized that she had changed as well. But what she had changed to wasn’t…
“Oh. Is that a drawbridge?”
Runearmor perked up when they came to a huge gateway in the tunnels. A literal gateway with a portcullis and everything.
And a moat. The Armored Hive was being rebuilt out of stone, but unlike the Grand Queen, they used plain stones, not fancy marble. Garry stared down at the moat as their procession walked over it. It was filled with nothing, because Antinium hated water, but that gate…that was a look. When they passed through the entrance and into the Hive, he got the style the Armored Hive was going for.
“Ah. [Knights].”
The Custodium and other Antinium turned to look at him and then at the rank of Antinium Workers practicing with swords in the ‘courtyard’ beyond.
Garry had run into Armored Antinium from the Hive before, but they had been more reminiscent of [Soldiers] wearing plate armor, like Tersk and Dekass. This armor struck him as a bit…fancier.
Maybe it was the helmets. The Armored Prognugator who had come to escort them had a working visor, which he flipped up to address Garry.
“Sir Baker, you have come to the first Keep of the Armored Hive. It is an experimental area meant to encourage levels as the Free Queen has done. Here, ye and yon company stand amidst warriors of valor. Behold the flame of the Armored Queen that lights this bastion.”
Even his modality of speech was fanciful. But one glance past the Armored Prognugator at the light source that was making this dark Hive as bright as the noonday and Garry just sighed.
“Oh. I must re-evaluate my preconceptions again. Silly Garry. Of all the Queens…I think Erin should meet and would like this one the most. I hope I shall.”
A huge brazier stood in the courtyard in which Antinium were training. It was being fed with coal and other burnable items now and then. An expensive, unnecessary addition to the Hive given that Aninium did not need the light. Or so the other Queens probably said.
But Garry understood. This light gave the [Aspirants] their vigor. It was responsible for the [Flametender] Worker’s class. It was why the Armored Hive had sent so many [Squires] to the Order of Solstice…and it changed the Hive.
The pink flame of Embraim’s glory burned high in the keep, towards the high rooftops above. Garry walked forwards as the Custodium and [Slaves] halted, mesmerized by this glow that touched something inside of them.
He saw Antinium kneeling in front of the fire, clasping helmets or using swords planted in the ground to rest. Garry gazed upwards and saw in the depths of that roaring flame a circle of bodies standing in front of an inn.
An [Innkeeper] playing chess with a Worker.
He shaded his eyes, and a smiling village of relieved Humans was in front of him—a team of silly adventurers standing over the body of an Adult Creler. He turned his head as someone came to rest beside him.
“What is your name, Prognugator of the Armored Antinium?”
“I am Tersk the Second. I bear the name of my honorable forebear, who fell defending our kin in the Free Antinium. I beheld this flame in the first minute of my waking. Is it not a sight to inspire all hearts and meaning, Baker Garry? I am told it first started in your city.”
Garry nodded absently.
“It did. I know the woman who held it first. It is a beautiful flame, Tersk the Second. But it is not my flame. I bake with flames; I do not live as one. I am glad it gives you some comfort. Tell me. How did it come to be here? Did an Antinium truly find Embraim’s lantern?”
Tersk the Second hesitated and put his helmet back on his head.
“Perhaps one did. Even now, more find his lantern and are trained, even if they are not sent to the Order of Solstice. But the flame came from our Queen.”
“Then she is a monster or a woman I would very much like to meet. Or both. But she shall be interesting.”
Tersk II twisted to gaze at Garry, affronted. But the [Baker] just walked forwards and stuck his hand into the brazier. He held a ball of glory in his palms and gazed into the heart of the magical fire for a moment, then gently closed his hand.
“I wonder what the Queens see in this.”
 
——
 
The Armored Queen of the Antinium had no frippery in her throne room. She was largest of the Antinium Queens. The one who had sacrificed most to birth the first Antinium on Izril’s shores, and Garry was wrong.
She was not most warlike. Merely the most dedicated to the cause she had never forgotten. He did halt when he encountered the giants.
They stood twice as tall as any Soldier, garbed in armor of their own, flanking the double-doors. Even the Painted Antinium quailed when they encountered the ultimate Antinium that the Armored Queen had created. Giant Antinium, meant to inspire dread in the Armored Antinium’s foes.
Walking targets. But these ones stood and regarded the smaller Antinium with more perception than most. They held two glowing braziers that illuminated the hallway as they swung a greatsword and greataxe down to block Garry’s path.
“Let the Baker enter alone. I will view the Grand Queen’s [Slaves] later. I shall welcome the Painted Antinium later. First let me see this Antinium who would feed a world of hunger. Enter, Baker Garry. I welcome thee to the Armored Hive.”
A voice boomed from behind the double doors, and the weapons dropped. No Queen had welcomed Garry to their throne room in advance.
As the doors opened, Garry walked forwards and found that the Armored Queen truly had taken to the image of knighthood. She sat in a room of polished grey stone, almost slick, so smooth it would not damage her abdomen as it dragged across the ground.
The clank of distant forges filled the air along with the smell of metal, but her chambers were quiet as the doors closed. The first thing that Garry saw were the statues.
The Armored Queen’s statues of Centenium past had been moved, positioned around the room where they gazed down, illuminated only by a single, hanging chandelier that held those same pink flames.
And a bookcase. An inert forge, where it seemed like pieces of armor were being fitted and altered. A vast reading desk sat with a gigantic magnifying glass, such that the Armored Queen could read the tiny books.
She herself sat on a pile of pillows of various colors, a giant, bloated Queen, her carapace visibly damaged from where the growth she had caused to her body had strained her form beyond its limits.
Nevertheless, she had sat upright to greet her guest, and one of her long feeler-arms was raised in a very Human-like greeting. Only, the greeting never came.
When she beheld Garry, the Armored Queen froze. As he walked forwards, head circling the room, she sank back against her pillows and reached for something. The Armored Queen pulled out a second light-source. A lantern hanging from a huge chain, like a flail, and the pink flame of glory bloomed. She held it up, still trembling, and whispered.
“Galuc? Is that you?”
The vision before her halted, and the Armored Queen realized no—no, it could not be him. He was far, far too small. And yet…
“I am not that person, Armored Queen. I greet you. I am Garry, the Baker. Who is Galuc, please?”
She was silent for a long while. Then the huge Queen rose higher and crawled forward until she loomed over him, but not with hostility. He realized she was kneeling, and her huge head dipped downwards, as if she were bowing to him.
“Rise, Baker. You are not Galuc. It was a trick of the light. But you…you walk in his shadow unlike any Antinium I have ever seen. You have his bearing.”
“I…do? Who is Galuc?”
The Armored Queen’s mandibles opened in shock and hurt.
“She never spoke of him to you? Galuc the Builder? He is the Antinium that every Worker and Soldier is derived from, though none can match his stature. The brave Antinium who dove into the sea that the Kraken who was destroying our fleet might be driven away. You…you are taller, despite being a Worker. How?”
She recognized his broader shoulders, the change in his height that was becoming more noticeable, especially after his delivery. Garry rolled his shoulders uncomfortably.
“I do not know. I eat a…special bread. Perhaps that is it? Armored Queen, I come bearing gifts. May I offer them to you?”
“Yes. Yes, of course. Be welcome, Baker. Sit. I have refreshments of my own to offer you.”
Rattled, she sat and lifted a tray that held water and a very rough bread. But Garry realized this wasn’t a lack of resource or creativity; the Armored Queen had the exact same for herself.
“I have attempted to bake it, to understand you, Baker. Your food is far superior.”
He ducked his head.
“I would be honored to eat your bread, Armored Queen. I have never consumed food made by a Queen of the Antinium.”
“…No. I suppose you have not. But in the days we lived in Rhir, it would not have been so surprising. Antinium do not ‘cook’ save to process foods, but we ate foods far more palatable, even so. If a Shaper Queen had heard of your class, they would have created bread for amusement’s sake if they had the time.”
With every word and action, she made him welcome in ways each of the other Queens had not. She had a chair for him, and when he sat and smiled, it was with true pleasure.
“Armored Queen, you speak of Rhir. The Free Queen has told me some stories of our kind, but even the other Queens are loath to speak of it.”
She placed a feeler over her chest.
“It hurts the heart. I believe that is the expression other species use, and it is apt. I have been studying books of [Knights] that I may understand what calls so many of my Antinium to the flame. Like the other Hives, mine changes. But the longer I gaze into this pink flame—”
She indicated the glowing flame of glory.
“—The more I remember the past. It was not so long ago. You say Rhir, Garry. I say: home. But the Antinium of the Hives of Izril do not know home. They do not know why we fight. I have realized this upon speaking to them, and it troubles me greatly. The Grand Queen insists we are ready for war. But I view the Free Antinium and my own as they gain their individuality, which is like the Antinium of Rhir. And I wonder: will there come a day when the Queens give orders that the Antinium they rule will not obey?”
That rattled Garry. Not because what she was saying was at all surprising, but because one of the Queens had conceptualized it.
“You…speak to a valid concern, Armored Queen. Wherein did this insight lie?”
“Stories of chivalry and valor. Terandria’s Humans. It seems that these [Knights] who ride about with honor and quests love loyalty. But the more they love it, the more often they raise arms against an unjust ruler. Does it not follow that if I emulate them, I should fear the very same end of monarchs?”
Her logic was impeccable. She spoke in a curious way, much like the Free Queen or Silent Queen, with that rational logic commingled with the hints of Terandrian customs that her Hive was adopting. Garry was fascinated, and he nibbled on her bread—which went quite well with some warm honey actually—as he spoke.
“Armored Queen, it is true that Antinium diverge. I am not like the Painted Antinium, and they are not like the [Crusaders]. But what I hope unites us, what I hope to give to the Hives, is…meaning. Be it in food or deed, that is what I see all the Queens striving for in their own way.”
The Silent Queen in her experiments towards perfection, the Flying Queen in her race for superiority. The Grand Queen desiring authority and prestige—and the Armored Queen’s aspiring [Knights]. Garry gestured at his bag of holding.
“The problem is that no one [Baker] can feed the world—yet. To that end, I have brought other gifts. This simple creation, for instance.”
He showed her the book he’d written, and she instantly brought it over to her reading station and paged through it.
“Curious. Ah, and you have written this? It gives meaning…yes. It may give meaning, like that flame. But this word you write. ‘Despair’. It is not good, it is not fitting, I think, that this word should be the one to capture the state of our Workers and Soldiers. There was despair in Rhir. But also unity. Joys and sadness when we were as one. We have lost that. This flame is but an attempt to capture that.”
“The Unitasis Network?”
Again, she surprised him by shaking her head and bending over.
“No. Community. A word I have had to learn, for it was never what I lacked. I did not know I was lonely until I read the word and it called to me. This is not how Antinium should live, Garry. Day after day, I look at my Antinium and am ashamed. Not of them, but how I have failed them. Mine do not know why we fight. They do not see a future or dream of it. They do not know what they have lost. They have never sung. And Antinium sing.”
There it was. Just for a moment, her voice captured an essence like that flame, and Garry saw how it had come to her. He stared up at her, and his mandibles moved.
“Armored Queen. I have taken a liking to you when I confess I did not think I would.”
“The same holds true of me, Baker. I thought your mission was pointless. You fed the enemy. Then I wondered what I would say if it were Antinium in their place. We did not come to Izril to make Humans, Drakes, or Gnolls our enemies. We have only one. If you would, speak freely to me.”
He bowed his head.
“In that case, Armored Queen—these [Slaves] that the Grand Queen has sent are a bad idea. They come from Roshal, who has attacked the friends and people I love. They will not make the Hives stronger, but the opposite.”
The Armored Queen sat back, judging his words, and then spoke.
“I have studied Roshal. Their methods I do not understand. It cost the Hives little to give them the gold and other objects they desired. But what they gave in return? If they are to be warriors, they are reluctant ones held only by magic and threat. If they are to serve, the same applies. By allying ourselves with this nation, we make enemies of Demons. And Demons were not our enemies in Rhir. We treated with the Demon King. We still may. I have expressed this to the Grand Queen, but I suspect she finds my advice…tiresome.”
More and more fascination. Garry leaned forwards.
“Can you explain that, Armored Queen? You knew Demons?”
“Of course. You may ask the Free Queen, but what do you wish to know?”
“Er…quite a lot. When did we make contact with Demons? Why are we friendly? I would assume we were enemies from the Antinium Wars book I read. Though I know it is inaccurate.”
She smiled and made a click-chuckling sound.
“Ah, that book was most amusing. I asked Xrn if she had helped it be written on purpose. It is a boon to us. So much of what it attributes to our cunning was desperation. We had no specialist-Antinium until the end of the first war, for instance. It cites we held them in reserve: untrue. When General Sserys bore down on us with an army, we fought with all we had. He did not expect Xrn or Wrymvr, but had he lived, he might have destroyed us. None of us were War Queens.”
“War Queens? I heard those were specialist Queens. What are you all, then?”
“Generalists. To call us anything like a Shaper Queen or War Queen…if even a single one of them had landed in Izril, we might have won the first war. The Centenium are strong, but they are first-generation Antinium, and after the First Queen passed, no Shaper Queen dared touch their forms. War Queens are the culmination of our skill over many, many more millenia. The best of them approach the Centenium in sheer combat potential, though they are not so wise or experienced in other ways. In the same way, Shaper Queens could have made more Queens and many more war-forms. But I digress. You asked about Demons? Hmm.”
She put a feeler to her mandibles.
“I was young, so I had a rudimentary understanding of our situation. I was in service to one of the War Queens who led our damned expedition. The Demons let us pass when we emerged. Well, we told them we were leaving and that they could stand aside or war with us. Their ‘Deathless’ were wounded, and the Demon King allowed us to go. The Blighted King was not so responsive when we sent him messages.”
“You overran all but the last wall when you left.”
“Yes. The ships were behind the second-to-last wall. We didn’t need the ones past the final wall. The Demon King wanted us to break them, but it would have taken too many lives, I think. Also, both kingdoms are necessary to contain monsters we have no resources to deal with.”
“But you could you have done it?”
“Yes. I believe we could have done anything had we not fallen to the sea, where we did not know how to fight. I believe it still. Izril is fighting novices and a form not specialized for combat.”
Not even Soldiers?
That shocked him, and the Armored Queen waved a feeler.
“I mean no disrespect to the Queens’ works. The Soldiers are certainly useful, but their base-form was not a combat-form. Even the Silent Queen’s Antinium are not combat-forms in my mind. She has created them, and done it well! But she would be first to tell you that no Antinium on this continent has a true combat-form. Not even Wrymvr, since his is constantly changing and not the product of deliberate design. If you ever witness an Antinium made for war, Garry…then you will understand. Galuc and his ilk were meant to carve out the Hives. Fighting did not become him. He was gentle. It was why you reminded me of him.”
Garry knew he had things to do, but she drew him in, and he realized she was a storyteller. For all he liked the Free Queen and had grown to be her friend—she was not good at stories. The Armored Queen? Was.
“Armored Queen, the Demons? When did they make peace with us?”
Another smile as she settled back.
“Ah, forgive me. I am lost in memory, and it does not hurt today. When did we make peace? Shortly after they appeared as a formal nation. The first ‘Demons’ were odd. The First Queen met them, and they were…the current body you refer to came far later, when they were an actual group. They attempted some hostilities, but both sides were recovering from the Creler Wars. One of the greatest and most devastating periods of fighting for the Antinium as well as the world. Shortly after their founding, however, we made contact. We have never sought their aid, though.”
“Why? Surely the Deathless could be an asset.”
“Perhaps. Perhaps they could. But in our experience, that-which-slumbers corrupts and turns all non-Antinium against us more often than not. To let something die in their presence is to see it become a weapon for another wave of created monsters. Only Antinium resist.”
She paused and grew silent.
“You understand that I do not name it. If the Free Queen has not told you…”
“She has told me enough, Armored Queen. The same threat has returned, and my [Innkeeper] fights it.”
“Yes. So I understand. If so, the Antinium must prepare for even greater war. I do not know if we can win. Even a second such being would be more than we can hold. And we have held…since the First Queen fell. If she could not best it, then it will take a continent’s worth of Hives. Or perhaps levels. Yours rise, and mine have risen to levels that would place me well amongst Rhir’s Queens. I have passed Level 30, though it took me long to do so. It is not enough. Twice as many levels are not enough.”
Like him, she did not feel adequate. Garry sat in the Armored Queen’s presence and spoke until he realized that the Painted Antinium were waiting outside. Then he sprang up to introduce them, and the Armored Queen seemed genuinely regretful.
“I would speak to you for hours or days of the past, Baker Garry. But you have your task, and I mine. If only I could tell all Antinium thusly.”
He paused as he decided now was the moment. Garry bowed to the Armored Queen.
“With your permission, I will act on my own as I think I must, Armored Queen. It is true that I wish I could speak longer to you, but you are right. We are too busy to waste time, even on beautiful stories. But if you wish it, Klbkch found an audience for his tales. I think we Antinium…love stories.”
He hefted his book he had written, and the Armored Queen sat there thoughtfully.
“Act as you must, Baker Garry. Will you also be requesting stores of Armored Antinium grain? Some I may spare you. Not enough to feed Izril.”
The pink flames glinted as she smiled, and Garry bowed.
“I shall be happy to explain myself to you, Armored Queen. I am only doing as my class…no, my heart informs me.”
She lifted a feeler.
“I shall watch with interest then, Baker. Now, Painted Antinium. Break bread with me.”
 
——
 
What a Queen. Garry understood how she galvanized the hearts of her Armored Antinium. Combined with the fire, and these Antinium had a vision. A passion.
In fact, the Grand Queen’s gift to the Armored Antinium was probably going to land worst of all the Hives, because the Armored Antinium weren’t doing anything with the [Slaves].
Well, what did she expect? [Slaves] existed to be ordered around, and most Antinium had no orders to give. If Garry understood their class right, they were meant to be used, despite being people, and the Antinium’s roles meant there was nowhere for a [Slave] to fit.
The restless group that Tersk II was inspecting were visibly nervous, probably wondering what this Hive wanted of them, but Custodium 8 was giving Tersk a list of tasks they could be put to.
“They are aptly suited for fine manipulation work. Some have talents complimentary to this Hive, such as smithing, polishing of armor. Their Skills will prove efficacious.”
“I see. We shall utilize this asset from the Grand Hive, of course. My Queen wishes to inspect them. Some may serve her if they are not threats. Ah, Baker Garry.”
Tersk II turned, but Garry waved one hand, indicating they should go on, so Custodium 8 continued talking.
“The [Slaves] require non-standard feed for optimum performance.”
“How taxing. Will our [Knight]-foodstuffs do?”
“I believe so, though they have been instructed to inform their masters if nutrition or conditions are insufficient. They will fail to do so, otherwise. I shall now indicate [Slaves] of noteworthy level or ability.”
Then he did a curious thing. He beckoned forwards the [Slave] that Garry had noticed him helping walk. It was a Stitch-boy with a bandaged right foot, who stood timidly, staring up at Custodium 8. And the Custodium…patted his head.
“This is Eisil. He requires additional foodstuffs per meal, as he is still in development.”
“They do not come fully-grown? Very inefficient.”
Custodium 8 bristled and put a hand on one of his sword-hilts.
“He is very efficient at giving comfort. He also requires suitable cloth to repair his body, which is being procured.”
“Comfort. A mysterious notion.”
Tersk II definitely emulated his forebear in a lot of ways, and he peered down at the boy, who flinched, hid behind Custodium 8, and then gave a timid smile up at the [Knight]. He was innocent-looking, with huge eyes, and stuttered.
“I—I live to serve, master! Please tell me how I can help!”
“Hello. I am Tersk the Second. I shall indeed inform you of any ways in which you can help. What are your specialities?”
Tersk peered down, and the boy began to list his strengths, which mainly seemed to be caring for arms and armor. That made the Prognugator brighten, and encouraged, more [Slaves] came forwards, smiling at their new masters.
And Garry watched. He did not miss how some of them hugged their Custodium or even Antinium Soldiers, who were visibly upset as they stood back. It rather reminded Garry of how Antinium would get a puppy assigned to their barracks and fawn over the animals and get angry at Furfur for making sure the creatures had structure and discipline.
Only, these were [Slaves], so in a sense, they were even better than animals because they could talk and understand you.
The [Baker] stood there as the Grand Queen’s delivery of [Slaves] began to ingratiate themselves with their hosts. Then he saw a Drowned Girl appear to his right. She bowed deeply, and she had a long eel’s arm, humanoid but rubbery.
“Master Garry? I am Gilha, a [Cook], who served food for the Grand Queen. She has ordered me to learn from you and serve you. May I help you? You are the most incredible [Chef] I have ever met!”
She beamed up at him with such genuine admiration that Garry felt his heart lifting up. A few other [Slaves] came clustering around, and he saw Antinium smiling, Custodium 8 saying goodbye to Eisil, promising he would come and visit or that Eisil could come back to the Grand Hive.
“Master?”
Gilha drew closer and tugged on his apron. Her face shone up at him, and Garry turned abruptly and snapped.
“StOp using your skIlLs on me.”
The fluttering note of fury in his voice made all the Antinium stop smiling and swing around. The Custodium’s hands fell to their blades, and Gilha went tumbling backwards, bowing.
“I’m so sorry! I’m so sorry, Master, forgive me—”
She prostrated herself on the ground, but Garry was already standing back, a good dozen paces. Tersk II turned to him, confused.
“Baker? What do you mean?”
“Nothing. Excuse me, Tersk II.”
Garry retreated and noted how all the [Slaves] eyed him, then bowed their heads and did not approach. He felt at himself and wiped his hands on his apron. He felt…dirty. Like the Silent Queen’s clean gel being stained by something insidious.
They were using Skills. [Slave]-Skills. If Garry didn’t have his levels, he thought it would have probably worked on him. He tried to guess what Skills they were.
[Charming Smile]? [Master’s Affection]? Something like that. It was a very clever move.
Antinium didn’t use [Appraisal] spells, and even if they did, so what? These were probably natural Skills that most [Slaves] got in order to, well, survive. Garry thought to himself as he watched the [Slaves] being herded towards an area where they’d be quartered.
These might not even have orders. They may just be regular [Slaves] and a few spies were slipped in. The Custodium dealt with the spies, most likely. These are just…regular ones. To get Antinium used to them.
Just to be certain, he went to Custodium 8 and asked him about it. The surprised Antinium was watching his Stitch-boy go and replied.
“Yes. Some [Slaves] had magical brands or devices hidden in unique places. Each one was identified thanks to Centenium Xrn’s magic or made obvious. These ones are merely [Slaves]. We have [Appraised] them, Baker Garry. Shouting at them is also disruptive to their health.”
Garry ignored the glower.
“Yes, I’m sure it is. Well, I suppose that’s the best I’m going to get.”
He walked after the [Slaves], and Custodium 8 remembered he was on escort duty. In fact, a lot of the Custodium were following the [Slaves].
For Antinium like them, these free-thinking people were probably their only friends. Garry got that, and he was conscious of the Painted Antinium catching up with him, munching on the Armored Queen’s bread.
“Hey, Garry. Are we getting more supplies?”
“No. We’re visiting the [Slaves], Runearmor.”
“Oh. I thought Pawn didn’t like them.”
“I’m not Pawn. His bread is worse than mine. He can’t even bake.”
All the Painted Antinium halted, affronted, and Garry strode on. Runearmor hopped after Garry.
“Garry, Garry. We are all very impressed with you since you deliver bread. But even if you are Santa, you must take that back! Pawn is wonderful in every way.”
“He’s an Antinium, and so am I.”
“He is the best of Antinium! He was first to see the sky!”
Garry halted.
“Runearmor. I worked in Liscor just like Pawn. I left the Hive. We all saw the sky.”
“…I mean the real sky. Pawn is the one who invented our religion!”
“There you go. He’s great.”
“I sense sarcasm! I am getting angry, Baker Garry! Pawn is the only one of us who has had intimate relations!”
“Sure. The only one.”
The Painted Antinium glanced at each other, suddenly confused. Was Garry implying…? Runearmor stopped.
“Lewdquill doesn’t count! And Chesacre and Thaina! Pawn is—is—he and Lyonette were dating! He is a master of sex!”
“I don’t think Lyonette would agree with that. Also, this is not a metric that I find compelling. Runearmor, I’m not trying to offend your love of Pawn. I just don’t respect a lot of things.”
The silly argument had brought them into the holding pens where the [Slaves] were being chained up to the stone walls. They had beds, but the chains were, Garry supposed, traditional. The arguing Painted Antinium jostled around Garry, who shoved them aside as Tersk turned. The Custodium were shushing everyone.
“The [Slaves] require ample rest.”
One informed Garry haughtily, and he walked over to…Eisil was it? The boy smiled nervously and warily up at Garry and bowed, ready for orders. Garry observed that he had chains on his arms and legs that fed into one that went into the walls. And each one was linked to the same chain.
If one [Slave] tried to run, they’d drag the others with them. Was this standard for all…? No, he suspected you’d probably have magical collars and whatnot.
Actually. He peered at Eisil’s neck, and the collar looked semi-magic. Garry spoke over his shoulder.
“Question, Custodium 8. Are these collars enchanted with death-magic that kill the [Slaves] if they try to escape?”
All of the ones in the room flinched as Custodium 8 replied a touch anxiously.
“They are not. Those are expensive, and the Grand Queen was sure any runaways could be hunted down without the need for them. None have attempted to escape, aside from suspected spies.”
Well, where would they run? The Hivelands were hundreds of miles of empty ground with nothing to eat, and Antinium were everywhere. Perfect for Roshal to send their products.
Garry nodded and bent down. He inspected Eisil’s cuffs.
“M-Master? Can I do anything for you?”
“You can hold still.”
The Stitch-boy did that, and Garry took the link of iron in his hands. It clanked as Tersk II produced the key.
“If you require one of the [Slaves], Garry, I can unlock them for you. I shall do so.”
“Oh, I’m fine, Tersk II. Thank you.”
You remind me of Galuc. The Armored Queen had spoken, and Garry wondered if that was what Scaethen Bread did. The Flying Antinium, him…was it changing them to be like their true shapes? Or was it just what they wanted?
He did not know. He only knew that he needed what it gave him. Strength to knead. To climb a cliff. Garry’s four arms tensed as the boy looked down. Then flinched.
Clang.
The metal chain jerked, then went limp. Every head in the room turned. Then the [Slaves] shrank back, eyes wide, as Garry pulled the two loops of chains out of Eisil’s cuffs. He bent down.
“Hm. It could break poorly if I pull it too hard. This is better.”
This time, he bundled up the chains like it was dough and cracked it in a bundle. Fragments of chain link fell to the ground as Tersk II stared and the Custodium’s mandibles opened in horror.
“Garry. I could have unlocked the chains.”
Tersk II waved the key at him, and Garry knelt back down. His fingers—the boy flinched, but Garry just pinched the cuffs on the boy’s leg. He deformed the metal, then grunted.
“Okay, it was very symbolic, but I am risking injuring you. Key.”
Tersk II handed him a key, then watched Garry insert it several times into the ankle-cuffs. After a moment, Garry bounced the key off a wall.
“These don’t fit.”
Both he and Tersk II turned to Custodium 8, and the Antinium spoke.
“We were not issued keys to the cuffs of—Baker Garry, the [Slaves] are about to rest! You are damaging equipment!”
“Yes. Fingers it is. Hold very still, Eisil.”
“Master. This is wrong—”
The boy didn’t move as Garry pulled at the cuff with his fingers. One of the [Slaves]’ eyes bulged as Garry pulled the iron apart like someone peeling an orange. Then he was done with the other cuff, the bracelets.
When he reached for the collar, the room was silent as could be. The Painted Antinium were glancing at each other, but Garry was just feeling at the enchanted leather.
He just had to damage it, if there were no death-spells, but he couldn’t get a good grip. There was a soft rasp of metal-on-metal, and he spoke.
“Ah, your sword would cut this perfectly. Thank you, Custodium 8.”
He held out a hand, and Custodium 8 touched his back-shell with the tip of the blade instead.
“Baker Garry. You are freeing the [Slaves] of the Grand Queen. Regardless of her words, this action is not permissible. We shall inform the Grand Queen, but you shall desist. Now.”
The other Custodium drew their swords as one, and Garry turned his head. Tersk II reached for his blade in alarm.
“What are you doing? I am sure Baker Garry has a very reasonable…reason for what he is doing! You are in the Armored Queen’s Hive! Stand down!”
The Custodium hesitated, and every head swung towards Garry. He nodded.
“Thank you, Tersk II. I am, in fact, releasing Eisil and the [Slaves]. Then, I will go and do the same to the ones in the Grand Hive. I was going to do it last night, but it was late.”
He smiled at the Armored Prognugator. Tersk hesitated.
“Ah. That may be a probl—”
A sword appeared under Garry’s chin, and Runearmor reached for a mace and froze as a pair of swords criss-crossed his neck.
“Garry. You are also far less tactical than Pawn!”
“Baker Garry, you will step back and join us as we bring you to the Grand Queen. Now.”
Custodium 8’s voice was razor-sharp and quiet, like Klbkch when he got angry. Garry stood, ignoring the sword trying to dig into his carapace. He gazed around the room.
“I am going to free these [Slaves]. And you will not tell the Grand Queen.”
Silence. The sword poked him in the back harder.
“You did not hear—”
“I heard you. You said what you think is going to happen. Then I said what was actually going to happen. Now, I shall validate my points.”
Garry raised a hand. A sword appeared on top of it, ready to swing.
“Do not move! We will—”
Garry snapped the enchanted sword with a crack and a flash of light that had Eisil diving under the bed. In the ringing silence, he dropped the half of the sword and spoke.
“Firstly. I do not believe in owning [Slaves]. I am against the idea. I am against the practice. I am against those who hold chains. And you should be too.”
He looked at Centinium 8, who stared at him and the other piece of his sword.
“What? You should not be able to do—my sword. mY sWOrd—”
He was getting angry, but Garry spoke louder over him.
“If you allow these [Slaves] in the Hives, Custodium 8, all of you, know that one day, you will regret it. You will be those [Slaves] in turn.”
That caught their attention. Another Custodium barked at him.
“Your logic is insane. These are meant to serve us.”
“In return for the Grand Queen’s money and funding to Roshal, yes. And Antinium. I heard the Silent Queen was unhappy about giving her Silent Antinium to Roshal. As [Slaves]. I assume that Workers and Soldiers were sent to Roshal as well for the same purpose?”
Silence. Some of the Grand Queen’s Soldiers had rushed here as backup when Garry had broken the chains. The Custodium glanced at them, then one spoke.
“We are not Soldiers.”
“Ah. That argument is classist, and I respect it not at all. But I shall address it!”
Garry lifted a finger and pointed it at the Custodium who’d spoken.
“You are not Soldiers. But how long, I wonder, until Roshal wants one of the best Antinium the Grand Queen has to offer? Are you all so irreplaceable that she cannot make another? In which case, which of you will it be? ‘Only the worst of us?’ What if she sends two? The problem with slavery is that it reduces everyone to a price. Some people just cost more than others, but everyone is for sale, from [Kings] and [Queens] to beggars. You think you have no price, but Roshal knows it.”
The Antinium were silent. Garry turned to look around.
“Only the Queens will not be [Slaves], and even then…perhaps. That is the first, logical reason why you will not tell the Grand Queen. The second is that they do not want to serve you. The reason the chains are there is because they would leave if they could. Oh, some will say they love you and they do not want to leave, but it is because they have nothing but fear if they try to run. That is the work of the system Roshal creates. It is horribly clever. But I think if you ask most of them…”
Garry knelt down and looked in Eisil’s eyes, and the boy was peering up at him, caution in his gaze. And a spark of something he was trying to hide.
“…I think I know what their answer will be, if they dared to give it.”
“Do not move. Eisil is a good boy. He will be fed here, and you—you will get them all killed. The punishment for running away is death.”
Custodium 8 was regarding his little friend, and Garry glanced up at him.
“I believe you care for Eisil, Custodium 8. And I think he might like you. As much as any [Slave] likes a master. I don’t know. I don’t know Eisil the [Slave]. I don’t particularly want to. I only want to do this. Then he can choose whatever he wants.”
The piece of the sword he’d broken gently sawed at the leather until the glowing magic faded. Garry pulled the collar away, and the boy gasped. Felt at his neck, then stood straight, terrified to move.
“There. He does not like what you’ve done!”
A Custodium spoke, and Garry rolled his antennae again. He was proud of the action and felt like it’d catch on with other Antinium.
“He does not know what to do because he is in the middle of an Antinium Hive surrounded by slaveholders with swords, you idiot. We will go to the Free Hive first. Then…I will find a way.”
He hadn’t actually thought his plan out that well, which Garry knew was a problem, but he had come here, seen the [Slaves], and thought of Erin.
Just like the bread for the villages, the rest was only a matter of doing what had to be done. The sword at his back reminded him of the rest of it, and he turned his head.
“This will not result in Eisil or the other [Slaves] being punished. Unless the Grand Queen finds out.”
“She will. You are insubordinate just as she claimed, Baker Garry.”
“I will trick her. The only way she finds out is if you tell her.”
The Custodium were getting angrier, and they closed in a circle around Garry, and more silver blades pointed at his chest. Custodium 8 snapped as Eisil scrambled away.
“Eisil, go hide. Why would we not tell the Grand Queen immediately?”
“Well, because you would be afraid she’d destroy you as worthless failures.”
Just for a second, the Custodium froze. They had only one weak point. One of them rasped uncertainly.
“Why would she do that?”
“Because you failed to stop me, a lone Antinium Worker, a [Baker], from freeing the [Slaves]. Regardless of the truth, if she found that out, do you think the Grand Queen would keep you? Or maybe she’d…replace you.”
It was a mean thing he knew he was doing. Paranoia. But he knew how they lived. He had been them. The Custodium shifted. One of them spoke.
“This all supposes we fail to stop you. A lone Worker. A [Baker].”
“Yes. I suppose that would be a critical flaw in my logic. How disappointing.”
The [Baker] stood there, an inch and a half taller than the average Custodium, and it was not much in the grand scheme of things. But he was broader-chested, and he just…looked bigger. The Painted Antinium were frozen along the walls, and Tersk II was hesitating.
This was clearly bad, but whose side did he pick? The Free Antinium? The Grand Antinium? He was about to draw his sword and challenge them all to a duel, since that seemed to be the most logical course of action, when someone spoke in his mind.
 
Tersk II.
My Queen?
Wait. Watch.
 
So he did, and in her chambers, the Armored Queen told a story.
 
——
 
“What was he like, my Queen?”
“Galuc?”
She bent over her desk, working with some tools, the skritching in the silence the only sound. Elsewhere in the Hive, things were occurring, and the Armored Queen was aware of them, but her focus was only on one thing.
An idea had come to her after Garry had visited her, so she had gathered up off-duty Workers, [Aspirants], [Squires], and had them sit in front of her. She told them a story.
“Galuc…he was not like you. He stood three times taller than a Soldier, and though he had the same body, a beetle’s shell, and four mighty arms, I never thought he could fall.”
Her feeler traced the image of him onto the paper. A round, huge beetle, fists carving out stone and rock. The Antinium tried to imagine him, and then gazed up at a statue that stood above even the Armored Queen as she whispered. A perfect image she had brought from Rhir. Never forgotten, not even a single detail missed.
“I only met him a few times. But he stopped for a young Queen. It was he who built the first Grand Hive. He who would dig tunnels in war, ignoring the enemy around him. He built, you see. He could war, but he did not enjoy it. That is why you, who bear his form, are ill-used. But there were times when he did fight! And when he did, they broke weapons on his shell.”
“How did he fight?”
They longed to know, and she paused. When she spoke again, the quill skritched again. Two quills. One was massive, and she used it to draw, just like the sculptures of the Centenium she had made. The other was hovering, dancing on the paper. Taking her words down. A Wistram product.
“…He would stop.”
“Stop?”
“Oh yes. He’d stop and pause, arms raised, and let his enemies make the first move. They would bite at him, claw, and spit acid, and he would stand there and endure it. To see their strength. Only after they had attacked would he lash out.”
A single fist swinging with all the force of his body, enough to crush an Adult Creler’s armor in a single blow. The Armored Queen murmured.
“He was strong beyond belief. Stronger than Wrymvr—he’d grab a foe and press them into the very walls and crush them that way if he had to. But mostly? He’d just wade among his foes, arms swinging, until they were at his feet.”
They were in awe of the image, a feat none of them could copy, and she shook her head.
“But this is not Galuc. The Builder was not a warrior. He told jokes. He would build for months, then return as the Slayer came home from one of his expeditions. He would listen with us all, as Klbkchhezeim related word of new threats and stories of strange things he had found on his wanderings. Of course, all Antinium would know it soon enough with the Unitasis Network, but Galuc always came in person. Each time, the Slayer would scold him. ‘Galuc. You waste time’. And Galuc would say, ‘I do not’. He would welcome each Centenium home, and if they died, he would stand sentinel until they had finished regrowing.”
An image of him was nearly done. The Armored Queen’s heart hurt as she held it up, and they saw it. But it was the first; she gave it to a little Antinum and began working on the rest.
“A story of Galuc. Let me see. Perhaps the one I was told. Galuc the Builder was the 11th of the Centenium ever made. Back then, the First Hive was the only Hive we had…”
On the page, the quill kept writing, and she had to change the language. Update it, but most of it she decided she would keep. When it was done, the Armored Queen’s mind calculated it might look something like this on the page:
 
A story of Galuc. Let me see. Perhaps the one I was told. Galuc the Builder was the 11th of the Centenium ever made. Back then, the First Hive was the only Hive we had.
First Hive? What is this?
Oh, forgive me. You are young.
You do not know so many things. I shall tell you: there once were many kinds of bug-people living under Rhir’s soil long, long ago.
They all came from the same place. A wretched place that created all kinds of creatures and spat them out into the darkness, but the bug-peoples were different. They had thoughts. They had desires.
But they were not Antinium. They warred and tried to kill each other in the dark, and a voice told them to build. To become the most dangerous, and then they would know their purpose.
Now, you see, among these many Hives of not-Antinium were the ones who would later on go to become the Antinium of Rhir. They began with a single Queen.
The First Queen of All. Unlike the other members of her species, she was the most gifted of her kind. She spun new kinds of warriors, drones, protectors and even others of her kind—Queens—but she realized that for all her skill, the other bug-peoples had Queens of their own. And each one could make creations almost as good as hers.
What should she do? Back then, only the Queens had real thoughts in their heads. So she decided to make something new: a being that could both think and fight. A new kind of creature unlike any other before it. To do this, she created a life and then another. Then thousands. Then many more thousands of thousands and wove them all together.
It took her an age to make and countless setbacks as the insect-peoples warred, but eventually, she found a way to combine the minds and beings of all the lives. Placing all their strengths into one form.
All their will.
All their intellect.
All of what made them—them.
That was how she made the first of the Centenium. A hundred beings. The ones you know, you call Klbkch the Slayer, Xrn the Small Queen, Wrymvr the Deathless, and yes, Galuc the Builder and so many more.
One hundred. One hundred beings who would never be copied again, not by any Shaper Queen after. Because even if they copied the form, they could not copy what made the Centenium special.
Most are dead now, children. They have given their lives in great battles. Many died before the Rite of Anastases was created. Some perished with the First Queen, but that is a story for later. Some were lost at sea. Some stayed at home, waiting for our return.
Home? Isn’t home here, Izril?
Oh, no. No, children. I have so much to tell you, but this is a story about Centenium and Galuc. So, first, let me speak of how he came to be. When she needed them most, the First Queen spun the Centenium into being.
First of all was Hirriec, the Conquerer. The greatest of all Centenium, perhaps. I do not know; it was at the dawn of our species when he was made. It was he who conquered so many other of the bug-peoples and brought them under the First Queen, not as servants but part of a new species who combined their best parts.
But it was also he who was first of the Centenium to die. Hirriec, who delved too deep and found the true threat to our species. He who rebelled against the First Queen after being corrupted.
That, too, is for another time…
 
On and on the story went, winding and filled with little anecdotes she remembered, but she recalled it all. All she had to do was gaze into the pink flames. And, the Armored Queen feared, it might be a long story.
But when it was done, she would have copies of this book made. Perhaps it would give to the Antinium the same thing that Garry had been trying to make.
Meaning. He was right in one way after all: she was still a soldier in a war. But they didn’t know the war or their past.
She would tell them.
The Armored Queen of Izril’s Antinium was often tired. Her body hurt. Despair had wounded her worse, and she had lost friends and heroes. Tried to rebuild from the very dirt. She was older now, and she knew this failing body could not last.
But she had scarcely felt more alive. Her chitin might crack and bleed, but at last—she had a purpose filling her again. Like the [Baker] who stood in a ring of broken blades, the Armored Queen followed her heart.
It would always lead her home. Thus, the [Chivalrous Queen of Memoriam] smiled as she told a story of her favorite Centenium and watched another story being told in his honor.
She wished Galuc could have met Garry. She thought he would have approved.
 
——
 
The [Baker] picked out a broken piece of sword from his carapace and spoke.
“Ow.”
That was the only sound in the silence. The Custodium were on the ground. The ones he had punched didn’t get back up, and the others were just gazing at their blades. They had broken on Garry’s shell.
Not without injury; he was bleeding from a lot of lacerations, but not deeply. The [Baker] turned and gazed at Custodium 8.
“You broke your swords in a mass training accident. Leave the [Slaves]—no, the people to me. Runearmor, take them out of the tunnels and wait for me. There are more in the Grand Queen’s Hive. A hundred and some, I think.”
Not many. But more would come. Runearmor protested.
“All of them? We could lie and say it was a tunnel collapse, but, Garry, all—”
“Runearmor. Remember when I delivered bread?”
Garry put an arm on the Painted Antinium’s shoulder, and Runearmor hesitated. Garry was looking very intense right now, and his eyes were shining again.
“Y-yes?”
“Do you recall when I fed only some of the villagers and did not feed the others?”
“…No. I don’t rec—oh.”
Leave it to me. Garry dusted off his hands, and Custodium 8 stared at his little friend, Eisil.
“But I liked Eisil. I wished to protect him and feed him. I…this is not fair. You say he is happier, but I will never see him again. I do not care if he is a [Slave] or not. I just want to see him happy.”
Garry put a hand on the Custodium’s shaking shoulder.
“That is the problem. You do not understand. I understand what I must do.”
He sighed heavily, but then he walked over to a wall and began to punch it. The Custodium glanced up, and Garry turned and smiled at them.
“Don’t worry. I have a plan. And I learned plans from the greatest planner in the world.”
He paused.
“She may not look like it, but she is.”
Then he punched the wall again, and it cracked and—
 
——
 
“Dead?”
The Grand Queen was not happy that evening, even though Garry had returned with the other Queens’ thanks.
She waved her feelers in the air.
“Two of my Custodium and all the [Slaves]? You’re sure?”
She cast around, and the other Custodium with their bright, shiny new blades gifted to them by the Armored Queen all nodded. So did Garry.
“And my Painted Antinium. It was a very tragic event, Grand Queen. A freak accident.”
“I hold the Armored Queen responsible for this! Her ineptitude—”
“It might have been Drake sabotage.”
That gave the Grand Queen pause.
“Really? Is she sure?”
“We cannot rule out the possibility, Grand Queen. How else could so many die in such a total manner?”
The vast Antinium grew annoyed at this. After all she’d done during the deliveries! But that was war. She folded her feeler-arms.
“…Even so, I will reprimand the Armored Queen for her negligence. Very well, I understand. Tell me you have prepared a suitable dinner.”
“In fact, my Queen, I have prepared the most delicious bulgogi you have ever eaten in your entire life.”
The Grand Queen was intrigued, but the huge, huge bowl of meat and the vast platter of red, dripping meats was so mounded up that she gasped.
“This amount of food…I may not eat it all in one sitting! Chef Garry, the taste!”
“Do note the fats and marinades, Grand Queen. In multiple flavors.”
She was in heaven. The Grand Queen gobbled down the food and the ‘rice’, of which there was also plenty. Garry had gone into the stores for this food, and she was complimenting him nonstop.
“I must have the recipe! I must eat more! What strange animal does this come from to make such delicious taste? Goat? Cow-things? Perhaps they can be cultivated.”
Every Queen needed this. Garry beamed up at the Grand Queen.
“Oh, this? I believe that bowl is Human. That one is Stitch-folk, and that one is Garuda, but we did not have many—”
The Grand Queen was nodding along and itching for another bite when she stopped.
“…Human?”
She peered at the red meat in one feeler, and Garry nodded.
“It was a lot of work, but I finished processing all the [Slaves] when I returned to the Hive.”
“I’m eating…Baker Garry!”
The Grand Queen unfroze, then glared at him. She opened her mandibles and snapped.
“You turned all the [Slaves] into food? This is unacceptable! They’re expensive!”
He bowed deeply to her.
“I apologize, my Queen. But they are very tasty, are they not? And surely they are not that expensive. Roshal would not overcharge you, and the Hives can pay for tens of thousands. I consulted a ledger on [Slaves], and this should only have cost around 700 gold coins at market price.”
She hesitated and took another bite because, well, it was too late now.
“Really? They assured me these were the highest-quality. I did have reservations about the price despite the catalog they sent…I believe it was altered from standing market values, but I accepted the ruse out of a desire to build relations. And these were a trial bunch. But between this and the Armored Queen’s debacle, I have none left!”
“Ah, but you do have a fine meal, Grand Queen. And plenty of leftovers.”
She considered this. Then took another scoop of rice. And another bite of meat.
“Baker Garry, I can see that you are a somewhat wasteful individual who does not understand fiscal value. But I forgive you, because the Hives are rich. In the future, you must consult with me first. Ah, but the taste—ooh, what is that?”
“Mustard. It goes quite well with Drowned Folk.”
“Ooh, delightful, delightful. Baker, I cannot stay angry at you. I will have to deal with this, but you have my compliments! Compliments to the chef! Now I understand the saying.”
He bowed again, begging her forgiveness for his error, which was really understandable in her view; Antinium ate each other all the time, and he didn’t understand the world like she did.
In the end, the Grand Queen ended up ringing one of her contacts up in Roshal and told them she was delighted with her batch of [Slaves]. When the eager, sycophantic person talking to her asked how the other Queens were taking them and if she wanted more, she told them yes.
“Regrettably, I have eaten all of them, but it is the duty of the rich to eat the poor, or so I understand from your culture.”
There was a choked voice from the other end of the line, then the Stitch-man quavered.
“Y-you ate them, er, Grand Queen?”
“Grandest Queen. And yes, of course. It may be a suboptimal use of coin to your sensibilities, but with correct marination…please inform Emir Yazdil that I would like more at reasonable market rates.”
The individual assured her they’d—they’d—well, he didn’t get to what they’d do as he ran off to tell the Masters of Roshal that there was a slight hitch with their latest partner’s understanding of [Slaves]. And that was all the Grand Queen thought of the matter aside from looking forwards to ‘leftovers’. She was only sad Baker Garry had to run back to the Free Hive, but he had promised to come back regularly and send his foods and bake more [Slaves] for her.
She was mildly surprised to realize he had made it all the way back from the Hivelands to Liscor in a single night, though. That was…fast. Did he have a travelling Skill or something?
 
——
 
Garry leapt off the wagon when he got back to the Free Hive, having actually beat the two groups of [Slaves] that Runearmor and Custodium 8 were leading back here. They weren’t even half the distance, in fact; given the extreme distances involved, only Garry’s Skill, [Vehicle: Fast Travelling], could allow him to make the journey in a single night.
He’d actually run forty miles before switching to the wagon, because he’d realized this was the ideal spot to do roadwork each day. A straight tunnel from here to the Hivelands with no one to interrupt him and no water or anything else to get in the way.
However, that was a thing for later. Right now he had a problem, and it was the freed [Slaves]. Garry called for someone to pamper the two panting mules who’d carried him all this way, then rushed into his Hive. The [Slaves]. He’d gotten them out of the Hivelands, which was step one, but after that?
Garry was mildly shocked his ruse had worked this well, actually. But, then, he got the feeling the Grand Queen hadn’t really known what to do with the [Slaves] anyways.
The Free Queen was a lot better at understanding the world, and she was not happy when he told her what he’d done. But Garry assured her he had a plan.
“I will find a place for them to go, Xevccha.”
She leaned over her Throne of Fluff, glaring at him.
“If Liscor is endangered by Roshal because of this, Garry…they cannot stay here. Roshal has tracking spells and Skills. Xrn warded the Free Hive, but some of these [Slaves] may not be content to remain free.”
“I know, I know! I have a plan!”
“Which is…?”
“Standby!”
She craned her head to see him, then turned to Runel and Pisca.
“He does not, in fact, have a plan. Does he?”
They shook their heads, and the Free Queen took a long, long sip from her boba tea.
“…He’d better level from this.”
 
——
 
Garry had to do a lot of research about [Slaves] and [Rebels], and he had no time. He needed a plan, a system, for the next time they arrived. The Grand Queen wasn’t stupid.
More to do. But his most important task right now was dealing with these freed [Slaves], and he realized the Free Queen was right.
“I can’t keep them at The Wandering Inn.”
That’d link them to the Hivelands, and besides, Lyonette didn’t need more pressure from Roshal on her. But where did [Slaves] go if not…
There were only a few places [Slaves] could go after being freed, actually. Garry rifled through some books he’d bought, then jogged over to speak to a worldly, knowledgeable Gnoll.
Yelroan gave Garry a look before he began his lecture.
“Is this something I should know about, Garry?”
“Er, not yet. But please, tell me everything you know!”
Yelroan, Lyonette, and Dalimont were some of the best people to ask about this sort of matter, having either positions or experience in worldwide affairs. Unfortunately, aside from legal methods, or being the King of Destruction, there was really only one spot that harbored [Slaves]. And freed Djinni.
The problem Garry had was how to get in contact with the Demons. He gave it his best shot.
 
——
 
“Hello, hello. I am looking for Silvenia, the Death of Magic?”
Asgra was cleaning up the seats in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. When she heard Garry standing in the center of the room, she stared at him, open-mouthed. He waited.
Nothing. Damn. She was warded. He went down the list.
“How about Czautha, the Death of Chains? She was actually higher on my list, but I believed Silvenia would be more willing to chat.”
Silence. Asgra was poking a finger in one ear. Garry sighed.
“Serinpotva, Death of Wings? Demon King? Damn.”
Erin’s Skill worked on almost everyone! Why couldn’t this have been last year, before people took precautions! He went pacing around, thinking hard.
Well, there were other ways. Right? Who had access to the Demons?
Garry didn’t know about Colthei, but he was educated enough to have a thought. There was someone in this very inn, in fact!
 
——
 
A little Sariant Lamb named Smallhoof was rooting around in Nanette’s rooms when Garry opened the door and slid in. The Sariant Lamb froze and tried to appear innocent; he’d replaced Nerry shortly after she’d vanished with Erin.
However, Garry was in a hurry, so he strode over.
“Excuse me. I know you are aware of what I am saying. Do you, by any chance, know how to get in touch with any…Demons? Preferably one of the Deaths? I am in rather a hurry.”
Smallhoof stared up at Garry. Then remembered to close his mouth. He began to trot out the door, and Garry followed him. The Sariant Lamb began running down the hallway, and Garry ran after him.
“Wait! I am not trying to implicate—I just want to talk to them!”
He was about to grab the Sariant Lamb when Rosencrantz saw the two running and asked Garry why he was chasing a little Sariant Lamb across the inn. Then Garry really did feel like Erin.
 
——
 
…And the problem with being like Erin was that sometimes, you couldn’t perform a miracle. Which he knew. As evening changed to dusk, Garry strode around the little room he’d been given in The Wandering Inn that he seldom used. He’d found a huge map in it and tacked a bunch of red string to various locations, but it was no good.
He saw no other options, and he was in a fury.
“No! It’s not right! It’s not fair! I should be able to protect them! Not this! Not—”
He turned back to the map, and the only conclusion stared him in the face. It was obvious, really.
There was only one place to go. Garry sat there and saw the arrow he’d plotted, moving south from the Hivelands, away from any major city. Then…west.
If you assumed Roshal could track you down, if you assumed you had to avoid civilization and—and that they could use spells to locate escaped [Slaves] via hidden magic or something, there was only one place in the world where they’d be safe.
The New Lands of Izril.
“But they will not be safe there. The odds of danger finding them or…”
Two Antinium could not keep that group safe. Even if more went, like Runearmor, and the [Slaves] defended themselves…Garry sat, head bowed.
“No.”
Should he have left them in their chains?
No.
But…his head came up, and he wondered if this was how she felt. Then, the [Baker] wished she would talk to him. That was of course when Erin Solstice called before her big concert.
 
——
 
When he appeared in her [Pavilion of Secrets], her beloved [Baker] was upset. He had black flour on his apron and hands, and he continued rolling a piece of dough even as he appeared in front of her.
“Garry? Are you okay?”
He glanced at her and stopped rolling the imaginary piece of dough.
“Oh. Erin. Your costume is very…interesting.”
“If it looks bad, just tell me. I think it’s stupid-looking and I can’t wear it, but Matha says it’s great.”
“Yes. She would. It suits you, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled at him, then it slipped with worry.
“I’m…are you okay? You seem stressed.”
“I have made a mistake, Erin. I am not in physical danger. I am not. I am baking bread.”
“Oh? What kind?”
“Shadowloaves. As many as I can. They will keep people safe. At least, until they spoil or are eaten. I will explain. Are you safe?”
She gave him two thumbs up and brushed at her newly-shorn hair.
“Safe as can be. But not the best. Um…I was going to call you for moral support, but tell me what’s going on first.”
So, they told each other about their day. The silly [Baker] and the crazy [Innkeeper] both thought that the other had the more interesting day.
But that was because both of them seldom paused to look in the mirror.
 
——
 
Two pots sat together in the gazebo, and one was young, the other just a tiny bit older. Erin’s hat was burning with a thousand flames.
His was red and had a little white cotton ball on the end. Both thought the other had a better hat.
That was what defined them. Erin’s eyes shone like stadium lights, a hundred thousand watt stare of admiration. That was one of her powers. When she looked at you, you could believe you were the [Hero] of your own story.
That you could do…anything.
Garry’s Antinium eyes had no pupils, no irises to glow. But the light touched him and collected and twinkled. Even radiance itself was drawn to him and lingered for a while in his presence.
Both were broken. The [Innkeeper] watched Garry tapping his cracked fingertips together. His armored body was covered with cuts still tinged green. He saw her rub a hand over the discolored skin on her wrists. He gazed at a collar’s brand on her neck and knew he had done the right thing.
It did not make his life easier. The [Innkeeper] exhaled, and a gust of wind blew across the empty land. Garry whispered, his clicking voice like a dying clock.
“I cannot save them all. My heart hurts, Erin.”
“Yes. It’ll happen again, Garry. For every triumph, there will come a moment like this. A week. You’ll get tired of being beaten down. Even if you win and climb out of that pit once, the next time—you’ll wonder if it’s worth it the next time.”
His head rose like an ant in the middle of a flooding well staring up for the sky. And the narrator’s voice spoke to the lonely bug.
“…That’s not what scares me though, Garry.”
“What, then?”
Erin gestured at herself as her costume shifted, and the shiny leather crinkled. She did resemble some otherworldly traveller. A warrior ready to stride into an inn and lift a tankard high. Erin smiled, rueful.
“I’m afraid that I won’t do it again. Does that make sense? I know it sounds similar, but it’s not the fear that I’ll slip on the way up. It’s that I’ll never climb. I’m afraid that if I change, that’s what I’ll lose.”
He gazed at her, and whatever the [Baker] saw…he pushed himself up onto one knee and adjusted his hat. Then he clenched his fists.
“That is a good fear, Erin. But I have only begun my journey. I am not tired yet.”
Her words had stoked the fire in him that he kept thinking might have limits. However, if it did—he could feel it roaring. Garry did not need [Like Fire, Memory] to feel it. He turned to her and took her gloved hands so gently.
“I will do what I can. You, though, Erin? You look as scared as you did when Skinner was coming. I saw you playing chess and mastering that fear.”
She started.
“I do? I’ve been that afraid many times. But I always remember Skinner, and…I had forever to get over my fear. That’s almost how long it took, but I thought, after that—I’d never hesitate. Here I am, though. The concert’s practically starting, and I’ve been here. I guess I am afraid.”
He smiled.
“Tell me why, then. You? Afraid? You have been with me as I struggled. I did not have time for you. Explain to me why a Goblin scares you so much.”
She brushed her hair on her left side out of her eyes and glanced down.
“It’s silly. It’s on the tip of my tongue, but I’m afraid to say it.”
“Erin, you’ve never not been silly to me.”
“Hey! Rude!”
She blew out her cheeks and then laughed. Then she turned guilty again.
“It…it’s not about the smaller things. That’s all part of it, but I think I just wasn’t truthful. That’s it. That’s at the heart of all my problems. I’ve been dancing around saying things outright. Lying by omission. But I’m too much of a coward to say it outright.”
Solemly, he took her hands in his cracked grip and squeezed with all the gentle strength of a [Baker]. Garry looked Erin in the eyes as she shook her head. Then he scolded her.
“You have done a terrible thing then, Erin.”
She averted her gaze.
“Everyone lies, Garry. Or d’you want to tell me, here, that you like my pasta, even now?”
He laughed. A fluttering laugh and hugged her gently.
“I love your pasta, Erin. I just don’t believe you make it right.”
“You jerk. How are you so good at this place? Okay…but it’s hard. Sometimes, I tell the truth and hurt everyone’s feelings. The truth is searingly painful.”
This was also true, but the [Baker] pointed something out to her.
“Erin. Did you lie to me when we first met? Did you ever lie to Pawn? When he asked you what everything meant, if he was allowed to be himself—did you lie?”
She was shaking her head, because she really didn’t need him. He was just leading her to the conclusion she already knew. Garry continued.
“Nothing beautiful is ever born out of a lie.”
The young woman tilted her head, then snapped her fingers and pointed.
“The Order of Solstice! Aha! Gottem!”
He chopped her on the forehead.
“That was a lie made of truth. You made it true. It would not have existed without Brunkr or Rabbiteater. Let me try again. Do you want to make something out of anything less than truth?”
She was shaking her head ruefully.
“Now you’re making it seem too simple, Garry.”
“The best things are simple, Erin. Execution is difficult. As I have found. Just do not think that the truth should be basic. It should be a wonderful, scorching revelation.”
She tilted her head back and closed her eyes. When they opened, he saw something there that made him so incredibly jealous that he refused to tell her. He wanted to see what came next. But he couldn’t. So Garry turned away, and Erin stood up. Then she enfolded him with a hug and kissed him on the forehead.
“And you, my brave [Baker]. My lovely student. When will you stop worrying me?”
He grinned at her and adjusted the hat on his head.
“When I am higher-level than you, and then it will be my turn to worry about you and send you magical super-bread.”
“…You silly little fellow.”
“Hey. I am apparently very big and reminiscent of Galuc the Builder.”
“You’re always going to be my little [Baker]. Wish me luck?”
She let go of him, and the [Baker] turned, spreading his arms for a real hug.
“Only if you wish me luck as well.”
She wiped at her eyes, then reached for a bright red helmet. She hugged him and grinned.
“I never stopped.”
 
——
 
Then he woke up. The [Baker] kept working in his kitchen late into the night.
He didn’t know what happened next with her. That was okay; she’d find him later, and his imagination was enough.
There was so much of the world he didn’t know. So much he could not yet do. But this was all Garry did.
He loaded up a wagon with black loaves of bread and rode it back towards the Hivelands. He was so fast that he caught them slumbering in the tunnels. They’d come barely a quarter of the way to Liscor only to be told to turn around and leave.
“Your route will be south, along the Hivelands. You must avoid both Antinium and Drake eyes.”
“How? This is impossible. We are doomed.”
Custodian 8, Killtori, was standing with Eisil, and the boy was reflexively polishing some new swords that the Antinium had taken with them. But neither one seemed to know…who they were.
Good. They’d find out. In fact, Garry hoped they’d fight.
Fighting was good. It meant you were people with your own opinions. But he…he just hung his head as he had them use one of the emergency exits and ascended out of the secret tunnel.
“It will be hard, everyone. This wagon will shield you from the eyes of people watching from afar, but I cannot go with you.”
The Antinium—a mix of Painted Antinium, two Custodium, the [Slaves], and for some reason, a gaggle of Flying Antinium and Armored Antinium—turned to him. They’d just showed up.
Garry had the feeling that the Armored Queen might have sent some of her Antinium with the others. The Flying Queen almost definitely had not.
They clustered around the wagon, inspecting his bread, and the power of the Shadowloaves was indeed great. It not only created a semi-permanent cloud over the world, but it also dampened any seeing magic. And, it transpired, revealed cloaked Silent Antinium, who scuttled out of the clouds in alarm as their camouflaged bodies became visible outlines.
Garry put his hands on his hips.
“Exactly how many Antinium are following me and why?”
“Baker Santa Garry has book. We are Calby. Silent Queen allowed us to leave. If we report and level. We saw [Slaves]. She told us to follow.”
One of the Silent Antinium told Garry. He put out a hand and patted her on the head, then turned.
“You can come with me to the Free Hive. Or go with this group. It will be dangerous, those of you who go south. But no Queen shall rule you. The New Lands are the only safe place for you to go.”
“Master Baker, we will never survive the journey!”
One of the [Slaves] protested. He drew nearer, and Garry saw he was a Dullahan wearing ancient, rusted iron armor. He spoke in a low whisper.
“Let us beg Pallass for our kin’s aid. Maybe…Roshal will find us wherever we go. You have broken our chains like the Scourge of Roshal and the Death of Chains, but there is no safe place in the world for us. Not in Chandrar unless we fight under the King of Destruction’s banner or seek somewhere like Pomle, and there, Roshal’s [Assassins] find a way. There is only one place in the world that is safe.”
“I would not call Rhir safe, sir. The New Lands lack magic. Any tattoos or markings you carry will wither and die there.”
The Dullahan blinked, and then the old man adjusted his head, wincing.
“Roshal will pursue us with Skills. And these Antinium do not know how to travel or survive outside of their Hives. The journey from the Hivelands will be one thing, but after that? Even with a cart laden with food and this bread, we will never make it.”
The [Baker] nodded, and he gave the old man a guilty look.
“I wish I could go with you. But I am only one bug. I cannot save anyone with these hands. Not yet.”
He gazed down at his hands as they all stared at him, Antinium and former [Slaves]. A colossus standing taller than any of them. The image of a Centenium. But his bowed head, his regret—
That was also Galuc the Builder. The one difference between them had been that Galuc was never alone.
Never. Nor had Galuc thought he could do everything.
Well, Garry just didn’t think he could do everything yet. And he was not beyond admitting when he was wrong.
—They were standing in the empty, brown no man’s land of the Hivelands, along the edges where greenery found a way to survive amidst the cracked ground. To the north, the High Passes sat, a narrow gap into the north. Treacherous roads through the mountain range or past the Bloodfields and around Liscor.
Garry shaded his eyes as a little dot of movement broke through the silent landscape. Killtori drew his swords.
“That is no animal. Monster. Prepare for battle, Antinium.”
Painted, Flying, and Silent Antinium formed a defensive circle, and some of the [Slaves] searched around for weapons, but Garry held up his hand as the Dullahan man gazed at him.
“Not a threat.”
He was so focused on the moving dot that he didn’t glance around. Because Garry had expected the dots growing steadily larger, but he realized Killtori wasn’t staring towards the High Passes. The Custodium’s head was craned back, and his voice was uncertain.
“I respectfully disagree, Baker. It looks very threatening.”
Garry looked up—then flinched.
“What the heck is—”
The giant red bird landed, and the earth shook. Shadowloaves went tumbling along with everyone else as the massive bird, larger than even Wrymvr, swatted one wing out.
Three Flying Antinium buzzing into the air landed, wiggling in distress and clicking. A massive yellow beak stabbed the ground, cutting off a Silent Antinium charge, and one huge, green eye regarded Garry.
“[Devestating Ch—]”
A claw pinned Killtori to the ground, and Garry saw the bird flick its claw delicately as Killtori tried to stab the legs. His blades failed to penetrate the toughened skin, and then he was sailing past Garry’s head.
“Hold! Hold! Painted Antinium fall back!”
The Painted Antinium hesitated, but Garry’s shouting precipitated more quakes. Which were, respectively, a second and third bird landing next to their…parent?
Yes, they were a flock! And the two smaller ones were barely a quarter of the size of the first, but they had the same design.
A crest of red feathers and huge, orange beaks that Garry didn’t think were explicitly carnivorous, but were big enough to eat an Antinium with a single bite.
Size.
These were the largest damn creatures he’d ever seen in his entire life. And he realized they were not entirely red; they had more traditional white feathers, even blue and purple running down their wings. The parent-bird spread their wings now, and the wind gusts blew all the people except Garry off their feet. He shielded his face with his arms.
Not good. They’re super-monsters. They could rip everyone apart before he climbed on one, and he didn’t know if he could hurt…
The huge green eye of the parent-bird swung to him again as the bird tilted its head. And Garry realized…the magical bird was eying him.
Somewhat warily. He stood there, fists raised, as the two little birds cawed. The big bird was pawing at his wagon full of Shadowbread. Curses! Was it attracted to the magical food? Had he doomed them all by—
A screech in the distance made everyone flinch. The huge red bird took into the air as the little birds cawed in alarm. Then Garry groaned.
“Oh, great. Him again.”
But maybe this was fortuitous? A distant shape was growing rapidly larger, and the trio of red birds were suddenly wary as the mother—Garry thought it was a mother—took wing in alarm, screaming like a siren, a blast of sound that echoed off the distant mountains. He swore he heard more such calls, but she was banking her wings, flying and screaming warily at the figure approaching.
Wrymvr the Deathless. He landed in front of the wagon as well, screeching with his mouths, but his mental voice was contained, even amused.
(You are an interesting Antinium, Baker. Still not Galuc. Why are Rocs attacking you?)
“R-Rocs?”
Garry stared up at the gigantic birds, and he vaguely recalled hearing of the apex bird-creatures. The two baby Rocs were pecking at the Shadowbread, but hopping back as Antinium slashed at them. The mother landed again, spreading her wings and screaming at Wrymvr. Garry shouted back at the Centenium.
“I don’t know! This is something Bird would love, not me!”
(Must be the bread. Bird the Hunter would not enjoy these Rocs. They eat Flying Antinium in great numbers. The Flying Queen was bested battling them. They had an agreement to stay away, though. I have killed two.)
…Of course he had. Small wonder the mother Roc was nervous, but Wrymvr added after a moment.
(Communicating. Asking why she wants her babies to die.)
“What? Communicating? You can do that?”
For answer, Wrymvr screeched at the Rocs in an approximation of their tones, and the mother Roc screeched back. He translated after a moment.
(She’s threatening me. Doesn’t want a fight. Wants bread.)
“My bread?”
This was entirely flattering. The mother Roc circled Wrymvr as he edged left, shielding Garry and the other Antinium. She pecked at a Shadowloaf, but stopped one of her children from gobbling the miniscule pieces of bread when they tried.
Wrymvr paused, then one eye on his body opened and gazed at Garry.
(They don’t want the black bread. They want bread that ‘looks like us’. Special magic bread. They saw you had it. Apparently, they recognize it.)
“Scaethen Bread?”
When had they seen him eating it? Then again, he’d been in the foothills and eaten it on his journey. But if they’d been in the High Passes—and he doubted anyone would be okay with these monstrous birds around—
Their eyesight had to be incredible! He fumbled in his bag of holding and then ran over to the wagon. He’d packed some Scaethen Bread for the [Slaves]. All told, he had only twelve loaves, a great deal of effort, but the mother Roc instantly made a pecking gesture. Garry would have put it down in front of them, but Wrymvr extended a feeler.
(Wait.)
“What? What for? This is what they want, correct?”
(Yes. Why are you giving it to them? This is ours. I am going to tell her to leave or I will eat her young.)
“Oh no you don’t! Don’t say that! Hello, Miss Roc Mother? I am not with him—”
Wrymvr began screeching at the Mother Roc, but Garry started shoving him, and shouting. The Mother Roc recoiled, staring at the two Antinium fighting, then screeched over both of them. Wrymvr stopped knocking Garry backwards with his legs and spoke.
(Interesting. She wants half. For her little young. If we give her half, she and her people won’t eat any Flying Antinium on their big flight home. Also, she’ll give you two feathers.)
“Roc feathers? I suppose Bird would flip out over them.”
Garry had no idea what he’d do with them, but he imagined a single feather from this giant Roc would make an entire outfit if you so chose. Probably very magical. And saving Flying Antinium lives was never a bad thing. He nudged Wrymvr.
“Say yes. I do not want to risk a fight, and you cannot protect us.”
The Centenium’s mental tone was grudging.
(…Maybe. I’d live, and you would. But I probably can’t chase off all of them. I’m demanding seven feathers, though. Even if they probably could kill half the Flying Hive.)
One mother Roc and two babies? Then Garry heard more screams from above and peered up.
“Oh. Oh my.”
Seven more Rocs were flying overhead, so high in the sky they seemed like regular birds, except for the titanic screams coming from them. They circled Wrymvr, and he buzzed his wings at them.
(Try it. Every magical monster with a language thinks it can’t die.)
He certainly intimidated the mother, but she began plucking a pair of feathers from her wings, then took two from one of her children and three from another. Wrymvr squawked at her.
(I don’t want baby feathers. Give me another big one.)
A huge glare—and she pulled a third from her wings. Wrymvr was clearly going to demand another when Garry kicked him.
“Stop antagonizing the giant birds. That’s a lot of them.”
(Don’t look so nervous. I won’t die.)
“You’re not the one I care about!”
(They’ve been here all year. This isn’t even half of them. They said they need the energy for the flight, but this old woman is just greedy for her chicks. They can use the sky islands for rest. Give her the bread if you’re going to fail at negotiating, then.)
Garry offered six loaves of Scathen Bread in a tiny pile before the mother Roc. They were small, but she instantly divided the loaves into two portions, and her children pecked up the loaves—and a lot of dirt—in a single motion. They seemed displeased, but the mother was quite happy. She cawed at Garry and then flapped her wings, urging her children skywards. She remained as Wrymvr translated.
(She says, ‘it’s good bread’. When you can bake big loaves, she’ll trade you more feathers for herself and her next offspring.)
He cawed back and received a peck to his body so fast that Garry heard the thunderclap of sound. Wrymvr rocked, spat several acid projectiles, and the mother Roc flapped her wings. The acid sprayed harmlessly in the wind—everyone but Garry had long since run into the tunnels to hide.
Garry wiped some acid off his face and turned to Wrymvr mildly.
“What did you say?”
(Ow. I just said it was unlikely she’d bear more children at her age.)
Garry had thought he was a sassy Antinium, but it seemed Wrymvr had a talent for annoying people. The Centenium casually hooked two more pieces of Scaethen Bread out of Garry’s pile.
“Hey!”
Wrymvr gobbled them down.
(My fee. Thank the annoying bird. She’s not leaving without one.)
Garry bowed to the mother Roc.
“Thank you for the trade, er, Great Mother Roc.”
She preened her feathers, seeming distinctly smug, and he sighed. Great. Another Grand Queen, just in bird-form. She shoved the feathers towards him as if the stuff that she grew was equal to his Scaethen Bread.
Maybe I should tell Bird about these giant red chickens after all. Eh…they’re people, however annoying, and I doubt she could kill them. Yet.
Wrymvr saw the mother beating her wings. She took off slowly, hovering in complete defiance of physics given her size, and then began to soar upwards. Warm air blasted them, and Garry realized—she was generating her own thermals!
Upwards, the Roc flew as her feathers flashed, and Wrymvr muttered mentally.
(Glad they’re leaving. They eat and poop everywhere, and the Hivelands are right next to the High Passes.)
Garry stood there solemnly, despite realizing that they had treated his kind like food.
“Where are they going?”
Wrymvr screeched up one last time, and the Roc screamed back. He fanned his wings as he took into the air.
(I’m seeing them off. I don’t trust them. But they said they’re going south. To the dry island. Home. They said everyone’s going to take back their home. A promise.)
He paused.
(Not sure what that means. I’ll have to look it up. Can’t have Rocs getting in the way of plans.)
“What plans? What home?”
The Centenium buzzed off, following the Rocs from below as they continued south, the trio joining the seven above. Wrymvr’s mental tone was faint now.
(You have your secrets, I have mine, Baker. Give me four more pieces of Scaethen Bread the next time you free the [Slaves]. No, wait, fourteen.)
He ignored the rock that Garry bounced off his underside and flew off, screeching. And then the migration was gone. Garry saw the tiny, tiny red birds in the sky flying south and put a few things together.
“Oh. That’s…concerning. For someone other than me.”
Then he went to collect the Shadowloaves and the four remaining Scaethen Loaves and told everyone it was safe to come out. When they emerged, the Flying Antinium visibly quaking, it was almost an anticlimax when Garry pointed his fingers.
“So. Rocs aside—what I meant to tell you all was that you are not going alone. I believe the help I’ve called for has arrived. Guides.”
“Guides? Non-Antinium? Who would escort Antinium and [Slaves]…”
Killtori’s suspicious voice lapsed into silence as a group of six riders on horseback trotted forwards. The leader swung off the saddle in a single motion, and the [Maid] with combat boots bowed to Garry.
“Apologies, Baker, but we didn’t have any confidence in warding off a Roc attack.”
“No, I quite understand. I doubt I could have done more than annoy them myself. You came quickly.”
Three [Maids], three [Butlers]. The Antinium and [Slaves] stared as Magnolia Reinhart’s servants bowed. They wore their silly outfits, but each one had a pack and seemed like they were veterans of something. Didn’t Garry hear that she enlisted former adventurers for her staff? The [Maid] smiled at Garry as she brushed at her hair, which had a curl of green amidst the deep brown.
“Our employer was quite amused by your request. Her exact words, I believe, were ‘I suppose I cannot refuse the harder request, but I wish he’d accepted the easier one.’ We shall escort this company to their destination and ensure they encounter the right groups.”
“…Demons?”
Every single one of the servants grimaced, and the [Maid] pursed her lips.
“I don’t believe I know any such horrendous individuals, Baker, nor would they be in Izril, let alone the New Lands.”
“Ah, double-speak. Forgive me, I don’t really employ it. So not Demons, and not ones that Magnolia Reinhart knows.”
The [Maid] seemed like she was dying to get moving, if only to prevent wincing half her face off. She bowed hurriedly to him.
“By your leave, Baker?”
“Let me say goodbye to them all first. And please, tell her ladyship I owe her some bread, since she has given me the most help with the least conditions. Unlike Wrymvr, that bastard.”
Garry shook a fist at the distant speck of the Antinium, and the woman smiled.
“Personally, I think Lady Reinhart doesn’t get enough appreciation, so it’s good you think of her that way, Master Baker. And if you could add some sugar or frosting to these magical loaves, I’m sure that would sell it for her.”
The Antinium smiled and promised he would, though he reflected internally that he didn’t have to appreciate his customers’ tastes to get along with them. But that was it.
Trust an ally. Not to deliver his bread, but people? The Worker stood there, waving, as the re-packed wagon became a rolling cloud of darkness that seemed to blend in with the landscape after a hundred paces. A moving shadow. He stood there, sighed, then stared distractedly at the feathers. The [Slaves] and Antinium had taken half since they were very, very useful, but they were so big they hadn’t been able to fit the rest into the Chest of Holding or the wagon. So that left four feathers, one of which came from a full adult Roc.
“Now what the heck am I supposed to do with these?”
Then Garry cast around and realized he’d forgotten to bring a backup wagon.
“And how am I supposed to get back without my wagon and its Skills?”
 
——
 
Runel and Pisca had to meet Garry after half a day of him running back towards the Free Hive with a handcart to qualify for the [Vehicle: Fast Travelling] Skill. Even then, it took ages for them to get back to the Hive.
Between writing a thank-you note, explaining to the Free Queen what had happened, and everything else, it was another long night before Garry once again woke up just at dawn in his kitchen, taking loaves out of the oven. And he had to admit—it hadn’t exactly been elegant or well-planned as his other actions.
But he’d done it. Sometimes, this was all you could do. Garry always did all that he could. Which was why, as a wagon rumbled towards the New Lands, on a long journey to safety and perhaps something new, the [Baker] kept working.
He felt like all he did was pack things these days. And buy Chests of Holding. Good thing Wistram kept selling them cheap; they’d actually delivered this one to the Free Hive, gratis. But he still had to haul the damn thing out of the Hive and into the Driver’s Guild after packing it full of bread.
It took a lot of trips, even with Runel and Pisca’s help, but Garry packed as much bread he could fit until the back of the glowing carriage made of mana and air seemed like it might explode from the inside.
Then he climbed into the driver’s seat, and two magical horses appeared in front of him. The [Baker] took the time to pat both and then glanced at the [Hostler] who’d come out to stare at him. He waved once at the [Drivers] and began to ride.
He didn’t need a door this time. He just rode off the top of the walls and over the water. The sleepy Watch shouted after him, and the Worker laughed.
Archmage Eldavin was good at enchanting. But the silly half-Elf had made the mistake everyone else had. Again and again, when were they going to learn?
The carriage flashed over the water as [Drivers] ran to spread the word. Not to the television stations; that would be wrong. Even if it was glorious, important—
Driver’s Guild code was to never put a fellow [Driver] in danger. The [Hostler] began to write an entry in his book, using a seldom-employed designation. He underlined the name a few times before he sent it off to the other Driver’s Guilds.
 
Delivery of Mercy — Undertaken by the Spirit of Christmas, Garry the [Baker].
 
——
 
On the carriage rolled, and a little Gnoll boy sleeping in a newly-founded village woke up for reasons he couldn’t understand. He pressed his nose to the window, then he raced outside, waving and shouting.
A figure in a red coat, wearing that iconic hat, waved at him. And he was big as could be, a twinkle in his eye, and he even flew, though he got so airsick he stuck to the ground most of the time.
The little boy waved his hands and believed. As the magical carriage flashed past, leaving a trail of water, the rider seemed to remember something and pointed.
Then the air shimmered, and a little green box wrapped with a bright red bow shimmered and appeared out of the air.
[A Magical Gift].
The little Gnoll boy caught it, and then the Antinium was surging over the Floodplains into the Bloodfields. He raced on, faster, faster, and then word was spreading.
Too late.
 
——
 
A few Drake [Sentries] posted well south of the Bloodfields had been cursing their boring duty they’d been assigned to ‘just in case’. They’d expected nothing but boredom given recent events.
Right now, one of them was screaming into a speaking stone at a confused, sleepy Watch Captain. The other was firing arrows wildly, but they just bounced off the magical carriage.
“It’s him! It’s him—Ancestors, raise the Walled Cities—he’s back!”
Then they dove as the glowing carriage flashed past, and a voice boomed like thunder.
“Ho, ho, ho! Merry Christmas, you little scamps.”
One of them raised a bow, and a piece of coal brained the Drake between the eyes. Garry sat forwards in his seat and started laughing.
The magical Antinium, the distraction, the living legend, giftgiver, and deliverer of food rode on. Wondering, all the while, what his [Innkeeper] was doing.
And his story continued.
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 46!]
[Skill – Create: List of the Needy Obtained!]
[Skill – Create: Coal Obtained!]
 
[Deliverer Class Obtained!]
[Deliverer Level 8!]
[Skill – He Rode in Any Weather, Undeterred Obtained!]
[Skill – That Elusive, Untraceable, Unscryable Man Obtained!]
[Skill – …With His Two Horses (Unnamed, Freud) Created!]
 
 
Erin and Ulvama – Final 
That night in Lemoste-Under-Cliffs, an [Innkeeper] and Goblin spotted each other across the crowded concert grounds heaving with Fraerlings, tables, food, and excitement as bands prepared to perform.
When they saw what the other was wearing, they halted, and their friends laughed and felt the moment in the air. The [Innkeeper] strode forwards with a marching band of musicians, like someone leading an army to war. A woman of great causes.
The [Shaman] hesitated, then crouched and scuttled forwards. A lonely warrior, a masked survivor who’d remembered she was still young. And she was followed by masters of magic, who lit up the sky, an honor-guard carrying her dignity.
At the side of the young Human was a [Raider], a rebel, a granddaughter, who cheered like the world’s greatest follower and supporter.
Behind the Hobgoblin strode a madman, a [Doctor], a genius who was determined to see something he couldn’t predict.
—Right in the middle of the two were the quartet of idiots who really, really hadn’t done anything much. An old [Explorer] and a younger one, who stared at the change that had come over the two, and a pair of silly [Brawlers] who held each other like the best of friends.
Whose hearts shook and, when they glanced at each other—they almost sprang apart, because for a second, they were afraid they didn’t look like comrades, but lovers. A line they couldn’t cross, because—Zemmy’s eyes flicked to the ground as Mera glanced at him and reddened—
You could never go back.
A hand held onto another a second too long. Mera leaned back as Zemmy raised a foot to kick. Then they were just sitting there, glancing left and right at the two processions winding towards them. Neither one said a word.
It wasn’t about them, anyways. The Hobgoblin’s eyes were wide behind her mask, and the [Innkeeper] was breathing hard as her motorbike helmet gleamed, hiding her expression.
They slowed, the [Innkeeper] almost tripping, the Hobgoblin freezing as Fraerlings turned to her. Gasping. They didn’t take their eyes off each other.
 
——
 
And you know what? This was a great moment to understand why the Battle of the Bands 4 was actually, in fact, the biggest Battle of the Bands to take place in Lemoste.
One might well think that Battle of the Bands 1, 2, or 3 would have a very good chance at being the best, and the fourth such event was not only passé, but banal at this point.
One would be wrong. You see, it all came down to a mixture of factors that Matha was loudly trying to explain to Eurise as Erin craned her neck, trying to see where Ulvama had gone.
They’d reached the table, but Ulvama had not. Erin had lost sight of her when a wave of excited Fraerlings had swept forwards to ask about the masks that Ulvama and the other magic-users were wearing. And Matha was shouting.
“It’s going to be huge, guys!”
“Bigger than yesterday? That was the third ‘battle’, right?”
Roja wasn’t quite glaring at Erin, but she had her arms folded, and Matha was excitedly shaking her head. Erin stood up on her tiptoes. Then sat back down, adjusting her costume. Which looked like—
“Listen! Here’s why it’s the best. Okay, you know how everyone was busy until now? That’s why the other concerts were, like—practice! Everyone’s here for this one. Plus, think about it! No one knew how to really play the first three times, but now?”
“Oh, they’ve had practice.”
Eurise shrugged. He was casting around as well, but he was receptive to this argument. Matha was nodding.
“Not just practice! Levels. Classes! And all the crafters got really excited for this one because, well, they have free time now that Lemoste has walls.”
It was true; you had the most participation, the most practice, the most competition, and…Erin was really happy for everyone. Really. But, uh—
Damnit.
She could feel the passion in the air. She wrenched her attention away from the crowd of people and turned to Matha. Reluctantly, but Erin had an idea. As Garry well knew, she was rather good at plans, and something occurred to her.
“Hey, Matha? I just had a thought. Everyone’s put a lot of effort into this except for me.”
“What? Erin! You’re all dressed up! I mean, look at what you’re wearing!”
Erin glanced down at her clothing.
“Yeah. But…well, this is huge. Just look at the Fallin’ Gnomes. Or Elohi and the Cats.”
She gestured at the nervous group preparing to go on stage, who the smart money was on—if Fraerlings had any money. They were coordinating with an [Illusionist], and another band with Alack and his group were talking to an [Alchemist]. Matha nodded.
“This is going to be super, Erin.”
“Yeah, well…maybe it can be even more super. I have a stupid idea, but…”
Erin shot a glance back at where a spider-Goblin had climbed over the heads of a crowd. She bit her lip. Then sighed.
“Can I borrow you for one second? I’ll be back, guys.”
Matha blinked, but then ran over to the stage with Erin as Bowom finally fought through the crowd.
“Back! Back! I have a scalpel! Dead gods, they don’t fear the scalpel. What is the world coming to? Where’s our [Innkeeper]?”
Eurise jerked a thumb over his shoulder, and Ulvama tilted her mask up to wave as Mera squeaked.
“Whoa! Ulvama! That’s a badass mask!”
“Where’s Erin?”
Ulvama was so nervous she jumped when someone punched her. She swore, whirling—and the Battle Hamster recoiled, then raised its fists. It hopped, ready to fight this freakish, masked—
“You silly hamster! It’s me!”
The Battle Hamster lowered its fists, then sniffed Ulvama all over and tried to headbutt her mask. She hugged it, and Roja broke in.
“Erin had an idea. She’s going to—”
“Of course she is.”
Ulvama sighed, and everyone grew tense, but the Hobgoblin just sat down, fanning her face. Then all the magic-casters were around them, and Ulvama fidgeted. Zemmy leaned over, staring.
“Whoa. Is that spider gear? It’s not Shield Spider. What type?”
“Dreamweaver. Do you like the—”
All the conversation was drowned out as a voice shouted from the magical speakers installed on the stage.
“Ladies and Gentlemen, we’re beginning in five minutes! Take your seats, enjoy the refreshments—and, er, let’s hear it for our performers!”
A cheer rose from the crowd, and Ulvama and everyone else joined in, clapping. But where…was Erin? What was she doing?
 
——
 
Backstage was chaos. Someone from Alack’s band was begging for a tonic.
“I need a potion for motion-sickness! Please!”
There were other voices shouting with all those last-minute emergencies.
“Does anyone have face-paint? I’m out!”
“Hey, where’s our [Mage]? We’re going up first!”
Matha was supposed to MC the entire event. Erin still wasn’t sure what ‘MC’ stood for, but she’d assured Matha it was important. But right now, Matha was wide-eyed, stuttering.
“W-wait, really, Erin? But that’s against all the rules. Everyone will kill you if you do that!”
That caught the attention of Vision Tiregal, who was singing backup in his own band. He came over, eyebrows raised, and Erin shrugged.
“I mean, it’s bad if it’s done live. But hey, you know what? This looks a lot like a scene from home.”
She nodded out the curtains at the cheering crowd. Erin hadn’t ever been backstage for a concert, but she added.
“I mean, everyone seems normal to me. Even as a silly Human Tallfolk. All you’ve gotta do is send it in, right?”
She waggled her eyebrows with that hint of mischief, of chaos. Matha glanced at Vision Tiregal as the [Mage] they’d found rubbed her hands together gleefully.
“Oh, I can definitely do it! But—but are we certain?”
“The Farspeakers will kill us.”
Vision Tiregal murmured and turned to Matha. The [Punk] stared at her feet, then at Erin.
“But everyone would see it?”
“Yep.”
“It’s so wrong! But wait, I’m a [Punk]! This is totally breaking the rules, right? No way. Erin, are you, like, some kind of ultra-[Punk]?”
Everyone stared at her, and the well-behaved, well-liked [Innkeeper] known mainly for her musical stylings and her feud with an innocent Hobgoblin developed a familiar twinkle in her eyes. She scrubbed at it furiously and slammed her bike helmet visor down.
“Aaah! Glitter in the eye! Matha, your hair is a nightmare! Anyways, yes. I have been known to cause chaos now and then, Matha. Whaddya say? If it’s really bad, someone will tackle us.”
Matha glanced at the others, then closed her eyes.
“Grandma is going to blow all her lids. Let’s do it.”
 
——
 
It was night in the rest of the world. And, technically speaking, the events of the concert had no real bearing until hours later.
Close to midnight, in fact, long after it had concluded and all that had been said and done had happened. What that was? Didn’t really matter.
The consequences of Matha’s actions were far more important in a worldly sense. And those particular consequences had a real bearing on a certain news segment on Channel 2 News, Wistram News Network.
It was late, and no one was really watching. The poor Gnoll whose job it was to man the newsdesk was named Nrr. A real Gnoll’s name, even if his parents had never so much as been outside of Pallass.
He was a [Camera Operator] and an aspiring [Reporter]. Drassi’s team had a lot of non-Drakes, unlike Channel 1, and this was his first time on air. He’d rehearsed a lot, but he’d still been disappointed to get the night-shift.
Unlike Colmet, who sometimes co-anchored or took over for Drassi, or the other top talent, he had to start covering these segments, and no one was watching, so he’d never get his big break! True, he’d gotten this far, and he was being professional.
“It, ah, seems we have more callers writing in about the Garry Delivery event. I’ll be reading them out as I report on the news as it comes in.”
Which was nothing. To fill the time, Nrr was taking user-submissions, be it messages to the desk or even submissions of their own events.
Wistram kept porting in things they got sent—it was expensive, and it was mostly royalty sending in utter trash, like King Perric of Medain’s recreation of his love affair with Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres or something.
But he had to fill the void, so Nrr read a few messages that mostly rehashed the action from earlier. If only it had been just an hour later, he’d still get to cover the events—or Drassi would still be here, most likely.
All the action was done. He gloomily stared at a counter behind the camera. It read ‘1131’.
As in, by Wistram’s counts, 1,131 people were tuning into the broadcast. Which sounded like a lot until you realized that even in the evening, Channel 1 was pulling 15,663 viewers. Let alone a peak…!
The Gnoll was fumbling with a few recording crystals that had blinked into being in the magical box they’d sent. He was reading the labels. Wistram screened for anything inappropriate, but it was probably some [Apprentice] on the other end, same as him. This was the news, but he wanted it to be news. Nrr sighed as he read.
“Let’s see. I think we could fill the void with…Stitch-folk sword-juggling? Er, no. Something calming, maybe. Drathian tea ceremony?”
He shuddered. If he fell asleep at the desk, he’d never get to work again. Desperately, Nrr glanced up and then blinked. The number behind the counter as one of his fellow [Camera Operators] yawned had changed.
1170.
Oh? Not bad. Maybe a village was watching, though wouldn’t they count as one? Before even a moment had passed, Nrr saw the number change again.
1249.
Huh?
Then it blinked again.
1533.
Then—
2144.
The [Camera Operator] sat up a bit as the Dullahan registered the number climbing too. Nrr fumbled with his crystals. He saw a letter pop into his in tray, then another.
“Er, I, uh—folks, if you’re just tuning in, it seems like our audience is picking up. Let me just, uh, read this letter that came in. It’s from Lord Molen of House Terland?”
He tore it open and read it.
“It says, ‘get on with it’. Er, with what, Lord Molen?”
He looked around, then, since the staff were giving him shrugs to indicate no news had come in, he went to the recordings again. Maybe…
“Er, well, if you want to watch viewer submissions, boy, do I have—apple picking in Noelictus? Ergh! Wait, what’s this? ‘Battle of the Bands 4’?”
This recording note was attached to a rather small crystal that glowed as he picked it up. Bemused, Nrr turned.
“I don’t know if this is what we’re getting on with, but let’s give it a shot. You know, it’s a shame. There are plenty of Singer of Terandria imitators these days, especially with her tragic attack at sea—she’s still not been found or confirmed alive or dead, you know—but no one’s got her magic. Despite all the magic, ha-ha…”
He was dying on air. But when he glanced back again—
4561.
Nrr almost fell out of his seat. What the heck was…and then he saw the image appear on the screen behind him. One of the [Camera Operators] changed the overlay so the audience saw the image coming out of the recording, and Nrr was in a window in the right corner. And he saw…
“Hey, everyone!”
The voice that blasted from the recording was loud and filled with cheering. Nrr almost grabbed a remote to change the volume, but the sight of the Human woman standing on the stage, dressed in a glitzy rock-n-roll outfit covered with silver sequins and shining flames had a microphone, and she was standing on a huge stage.
Where is this? Terandria? 
The cheering died down as the image of Matha stabilized. It was very clear, and Nrr checked the recording. Who sent this…? He realized he was on-air and coughed.
“Er, seems like we’ve got a recording of some kind of outdoor event. Terandria, I think. I don’t know what—”
“Welcome to Battle of the Bands 4!”
“Battle of the Bands…four? I’ve never heard of—”
Matha’s shouting was louder than Nrr’s desperate attempts to give clarity to the situation. And she arguably did it better than he did.
“Tonight, we’ve got an amazing series of bands who are going to be playing their hearts out! Rock n’ Roll, pop, and more! I’m going to be calling each band in, so give me a huge cheer for—Elohi and the Deranged Cats!”
The cheering grew louder, and Nrr hesitated. There was good energy in this video, but he wasn’t sure if—
The sight of a full squad of young Humans dressed to the max in clothing he’d never seen before—torn shirt sleeves, trendy, modern-looking clothing, and even a bandanna on their lead singer—made him stop.
And their instruments. Nrr took his hand off the remote as the Cats set up a very odd set of drums and lifted familiar guitars of a style he knew had become popular only this year.
“Hey, everyone, I’m Elohi, and we’re the Deranged Cats! Our first song to win Battle of the Bands 4 is—21 Guns!”
The Fraerling girl shouted into the microphone to more cheers. She couldn’t be more than fourteen—well, she looked like a fourteen year-old Human girl to everyone watching.
It was just a matter of perspective. And Nrr was right: no Cara imitators had come close to the Siren of Songs, the Baroness of the Beat…because Cara knew the look, and music and she had the Skills and costuming to produce professional music.
The only group that could throw together an ensemble on Cara’s level or better would be…the Players of Celum, obviously. Ullsinoi of Wistram. The Lord of the Dance’s entourage.
And Fraerlings. Oh, and one more thing:
Erin had taught the excited bands all the songs she’d heard or knew of, and she had heard most of Earth’s top songs at least once, thanks to her music-loving father, Gregori. For a Battle of the Bands?
The Fraerlings chose only the best. The moment Elohi began to strum on the guitar, Nrr sat up. His exhaustion vanished, and he felt the white-hot surge of excitement.
This is it. He leaned forwards with everyone else as the view-count continued to spike, and Nrr didn’t even pay attention to it. The music was playing, and he was a vessel for his audience.
The only time he even glanced away from the Battle of the Bands 4 was when one of the other co-hosts charged into the room along with Channel 1’s Sir Relz—then Nrr was kicking.
“Get—off—my—show! This is my spot! This is my spot!”
 
——
 
The events in Lemoste had happened hours ago, then been packaged up and sent as an anonymous, untraceable recording to Wistram.
Just because it mattered. Just because, when Matha told the crowd this would be recorded and maybe broadcast, if only to other Fraerling cities, it gave everything stakes. It made the performers try harder, and as Erin thought to herself…
The more people who watched a musician, the more you levelled, right?
In a sense, the reactions of the nations worldwide were merely delayed, no less real.
And Elohi and the Cats blew a hole into that quiet night and brought everyone racing to the scrying orb.
Erin was sitting backstage with Matha; they’d missed the chance to sneak out around back, and Matha was biting her nails.
“Are they good? Are they good, Erin?”
She whispered, and Erin replied.
“No one’s got a lot of training. There’s lots of natural talent, but they’re essentially cover artists playing the songs. So the original song is pretty much being repeated.”
“So…?”
Erin stared out the crack in the curtains, smiling faintly.
“So, what sells the performance is how much energy and passion the bands have got.”
She watched as Elohi began to play the solo, throwing her head back, and the drums thundered. In the brief silence as the music came down for the finale—
The cheering was thunderous.
 
——
 
The name of the song also threw numerous kingdoms into chaos. From Erribathe to Fissival to the Blighted Kingdom, Earthers were going insane.
King Othius snapped at a sweating Nereshal.
“Find this ‘Elohi’ now. Is she an Earther? Are they all Earthers?”
His gaze was avaricious, and paranoid, as he stared at the recording. And Nereshal, who had under him the greatest [Mages] in this world, paused, swallowed, and said—
“We—cannot locate this individual, Your Majesty.”
“What? Is her name fake, then? Trace the spell! Find out where it came from! Use our agents in Wistram!”
 
——
 
The Blighted Kingdom worked frantically, and in Wistram Academy, even Archmage Eldavin had appeared to do some tracework on the recording lighting up the airwaves. Everyone waited as the old half-Elf peered at the air, eyed a complicated thaumatergic chart he was generating, and coughed.
“Yes…well, if I had received it…did you get a return address?”
He spoke sternly to the [Apprentice] who had accepted the teleportation spell. Then his eyes flicked back to the concert.
Just who could this be? Was this a taunt? Some kind of coded message? 
 
——
 
Iuncuta Eirnos was spilling a cup of tea over Commander Rozcal’s hand. The two Fraerlings were attending an officer’s night, and they stared at the group on stage.
“You don’t think…?”
The clothing looked very good, and it was made with advanced materials. But there were hints, if you looked closely. The stage was made of wide slats of wood when Tallfolk had much smaller ones because it was hard to find a tree that big. And some of the materials in their costumes…
Iuncuta snapped at one of the [Mages] nearby.
“—Find out who that is.”
“So we can yell at ‘em? Or ask when they’re doing the fifth concert?”
The Fraerling woman hesitated as the applause drowned out Matha for a moment, then a second band took the stage. She leaned over and whispered to Rozcal.
“Both, obviously.”
Secrecy was one thing, but everyone was watching this and celebrating it. Fraerlings loved privacy and safety—but they loved amazing things just like everyone. Whether Lemoste knew it or not, like Paeth, it was pulling the smallest folk out of hiding. With music and envy.
 
——
 
The second band who played after the Cats were representing the ‘olds’, the adults. They were, fittingly, Fallin’ Gnomes. Elohi made devil horns at her parents, who blew a kiss as they set up on stage.
Unlike the wholesome kid-rock energy of the last band, Fallin’ Gnomes were the all-black deathcore edgewarriors. Never mind their age; their drummer was wearing a mouse’s skull for a helmet. The four-person band had thought and chosen carefully for their opener.
They were playing In the End, by Black Veil Brides, which was a very fitting song for their aesthetic. Erin was smiling; Elohi’s parents were eating up the stage. They’d gone all out.
Fake blood, collapsible daggers—you could imagine the rest. And just think—this wasn’t the two top bands, but the average level of competition. Fraerlings were giving this their all, and Erin loved it.
You know what she’d love more? To be sitting with a Hobgoblin wearing a mask and maybe having a conversation, or at least, be not seeing this from backstage.
She whispered to Matha, who was rocking out to the song and air guitaring as well.
“Matha, I’m going to run around and join the crowd, okay?”
“Sure. Erin, this is a great idea! They’re going nuts! I can practically feel myself levelling!”
The crowd was hopping. Wait, was it cool to say hopping? Erin didn’t know, but she wished she’d gone to more concerts…
No. She wished she’d been this Erin when she was on Earth. And she wished she’d had Bowom, Ulvama, Battle Hamster, and yes, even Matha with her.
I don’t want to go back to my city of Grand Rapids as I was. I want to visit it again as me.
She felt almost like a key was turning in her chest. The rightness of this thought, this moment—she was adjusting her costume when it happened.
“Oh no. Oh no. Erin, help!”
It was one of the band members! Alack’s band—she forgot their actual name, but the oldest musician was grave as they crowded around someone on the floor. A [Healer] pushed into view.
“What? What’s going on?”
“The idiot ate a centipede without making sure it was dead! It’s been writhing around in his stomach and guts all evening!”
Centipedes were apparently very good at surviving, even when being actively digested, and one of their backup performers was down. It wasn’t a danger to his life, but the [Healer] flatly refused to say he’d be back in time to perform.
“Absolutely not! We need to operate on him, and everyone, even Bowom the Slicer, is here! I’ll get him out of here, but he won’t be back!”
“But—but our act!”
The lead singer was pleading with the [Healer], and the Fraerling woman turned.
“Can’t someone fill in for you? There are all those performers.”
“No one knows how to dance! It’s not hard, but we can’t just show them…”
Then every eye turned to the woman who’d helped them come up with the routine to begin with. Erin raised her gloved hands.
“Oh no. No, I can’t—”
She hesitated, because Alack was giving her a soulful gaze as he toyed with his new saxophone. Matha hesitated.
“You’re already in costume, Erin…and it’d be pretty cool. Ulvama wouldn’t expect this.”
Every eye swung back to the Hobgoblin in the crowd as Erin wavered. She blushed as she regarded them, helmet under one arm.
“But if I mess up—”
“Hey, Erin. Respect the music.”
The [Drummer] put a hand on Erin’s arm, and she groaned.
“This had better not become the world’s first movie. Argh! Okay!”
They were up next. The cheering grew louder, and Matha whispered to Erin as she called their names then dashed back inside.
“Thanks, Erin. Alack’s really nervous, but he’s practiced for this for two whole Battle of the Bands.”
The sax was a difficult instrument to learn, and the old Fraerling had been self-conscious from all the teasing. In fact…Matha was genuinely worried because the quality of performance tonight was blowing the sky off everyone’s expectations.
The greatest hits of Earth were coming out left, right, and center, and could Alack’s band compete? They weren’t, uh, as good as some of the other bands. Erin leaned over as Alack walked out and took his position behind the two lead singers.
“Don’t worry. Alack’s great.”
“But is the song good? You didn’t even remember the name.”
Erin grinned as her eyes flicked to Alack.
“I don’t. But if you want to play with the best…there’s only one song I know that has an amazing, no, epic saxophone guy.”
Matha’s brows rose. She smiled as Erin began to stride out to join the backup dancers flanking Alack. Then she flailed.
“Erin! Waitwaitwait, helmet!”
Erin had nearly gone out without her iconic helmet! Erin caught herself and jammed it on. Then she was just an awesome…she gave Matha a gloved thumbs up.
“Good catch, Matha!”
She strode out onto stage as Ulvama’s jaw dropped. But the song wasn’t about her or even featured Alack at first.
 
——
 
Technically, the song was named ‘Run Away’. Erin had helped come up with the choreography, by which she had shamelessly stolen the performance since, well, they were iconic and had worked, right?
That was why the first person to actually begin playing was a Fraerling who had a violin of everything. He was spinning around on an enchanted platform. Hence the need for a motion-sickness potion.
The other singer was a woman who was singing what had sounded like another language to a younger Erin, but was just accented English. And it was a good song. Strong, techno beats or something, with a trio of backup dancers. An old Fraerling in the center, a nimble young man to his right, and for some reason, a helmeted biker on the left.
 
—-
 
It was okay, but for Mrsha’s money, watching in The Wandering Inn, the other acts had been way better. No disrespect; she admired the old man’s clothing.
He had a sleeveless jacket on, exposing a bare chest and white chest hair, and long jeans or something close. And a saxophone which looked interesting; with the shades, she thought he was what Nanette kept trying to emulate with her silly clothing.
The weird biker-girl to the left made Mrsha think of Theillige for some reason. Or Rianchi, actually.
Definitely Earthers. She was up way past her bedtime, but no one cared; the inn was packed with people watching this non-Inn event with a lot of fun. She was turning to her mother when someone began choking at the table next to hers.
She thought Kevin was dying for a moment and began hitting him on the back to get the popcorn out, but the bulging-eyed Earther was gasping.
“No. No, it can’t be! It’s that song! It’s—epic sax guy!”
“Epic who now?”
Lyonette turned, and every eye focused on the center figure as the old Fraerling lifted the saxophone to his mouth, and the music receded and—
After a second, Mrsha’s head began to bob to the beat. Peggy gasped.
“Oh my.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t even a long segment. That was the genius of it. It was just that when he took center stage…Erin had told Alack it was all about energy. Hip thrust. Pelvic energy.
She’d done some demonstrations after a lot of persuading. The rest? Poise and pure aura.
How much aura did a seventy year-old Fraerling with a saxophone have?
He had exactly two short segments in the three-minute song. All the two backup dancers did was accompany him and dance along to the beat.
—The cheering was so loud and sustained that the band had to come back and perform the exact same song except with a twice-as-long saxophone break.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was applauding and debating casting their vote for best song of the night there and then. They’d completely forgotten this was a recording; Nrr was taking votes from his audience for best song.
Counterlevelling.
And this was all long after it had happened. Lyonette glanced a second time at the helmeted biker girl doing a second bow. She rubbed her chin, narrowed her eyes, then nudged Ser Dalimont.
“You know who that helmeted girl there reminds me of?”
“Who, Your Highness?”
“Ryoka. It’s quite like something she’d wear.”
Ser Dalimont narrowed his eyes at the bowing figure, then nodded.
“You know what? That is just like her, though she has boots on.”
“Maybe it is her. We should check. It’d be so typical of Ryoka to get mixed up in all this. She probably ran into a group of Earthers again and she’s dating a war-criminal from Earth or something.”
Then they went back to watching, and for once, it wasn’t about Erin at all. Nor about them. The inn drifted on, in those quiet days between wars. Rebuilding. Healing. But not, perhaps, peace as defined in some dictionaries as the ‘period of rest between this war and the next’.
A more positive peace this time. One could only dream.
 
——
 
In her room on the third floor, a Drake lay curled up, listening to the sounds of merriment from below. There was a scrying orb in her room, though not one she was watching the concert from. It showed her the common room, and every now and then, someone, usually the [Princess], would glance at her and ask if she was well.
Her name was…Tessa. She had been Shriekblade, which was who the Healer had wanted. But Lyonette had come for ‘Tessa’, and the miserable Drake had followed. She was not better.
—But it was warm here. She curled up under blankets and a heating stone placed under a little table, laying there as the world shifted around her.
She hadn’t been forgotten. This time, someone had come for her, apologizing all the while for how long it had taken. The Named-rank adventurer studied the figures on the little scrying orb. They were very far off, but she, who had killed every levelling species in the world except one knew bodies. These were…new.
Wondering why the [Innkeeper] was dancing with Fraerlings, Tessa slept.
 
——
 
Battle of the Bands 4 would go down in music history. In world history, really. Certainly, it would later be credited for single-handedly jumpstarting Lemoste’s obsession with music and crafting.
Or perhaps that was also due to a certain [Innkeeper] and [Shaman] who had visited along with other noteworthy individuals, like Eurise the Explorer and Bowom the Slicer.
But that was history, and what they wrote of the group that had come here…
In the moment, Erin was high-fiving the ecstatic band and hugging Alack, then excusing herself to hurry around the concert grounds. The problem was—by now, every Fraerling not seated at the tables with food was forming a mosh pit, and she couldn’t even see her group.
She could sense where they were, but Erin didn’t want to shove people aside—and it was so hecking noisy that how were you supposed to have a conversation in…?
“Erin! There you are!”
Zemmy shouted and pulled Erin out of the crowd. Then she saw all the faces around her. Roja, dancing as Eurise sat grinning, and Zemmy and Mera jumped up and down. Bowom was pouring drinks for the Architects and magic-users grooving out and—
There was Ulvama. The two stopped as Ulvama sat up in her chair. Erin halted, covered in sweat under her rather hot outfit, and they finally got a good look at each other.
Ulvama was like some kind of swamp-warrior or a true Fraerling from the wilds. She wore a mask that curved down to form a heart’s tip at her chin and became a series of armored edges around the eyeguards. Like…a spiked beast. Two round circles armored with glass gave her the ability to see, and the mask was contoured to her face such that if she needed to, she could breathe an enchanted air supply underwater or in poisonous smog.
But it was the colors which made the mask pop at anyone who saw it. Purple spider’s fangs and slashes of green, making her eyes appear huge. The optical illusion ran across the dark purple armor she wore, which was covered in webs. A mesh between her fingers and, yes, under her armpits…bright orange, red, and darker blue ran over her armor.
Shamanic warrior armor. When she crouched and scuttled, she resembled some kind of freakish spider, enhanced all the more by the fangs and hilts of daggers sticking out from her armor. She looked spiky.
She looked like she had emerged from the deep jungles on a mission. A wild being of magic and mystery, but never primitive. Just unique. Proudly bearing symbols and a culture that no one understood but her.
Her hair was braided back, and it swung as her head moved up and down. Gazing at the [Innkeeper].
Erin Solstice’s face was covered by a motorcycle helmet from her world painted bright red, covered with glass. There was nothing but a black pane of one-way glass over her face. As if her features didn’t matter.
The rest of her clothing resembled a motorcyclist’s: a black leather jacket with a single chess piece on the back, a queen. Little studs of brass had been hammered into a shoulderguard on her right shoulder. And there were tiny icons running down the left side of the jacket, exposing a similarly dark undershirt.
Her leggings were, well, leather, but sufficiently pants-like to fall into many categories if they weren’t strictly jeans. And she had a white flag resting over her shoulder, but Ulvama’s eyes were drawn to the one bit of color.
Those little icons. The enthusiastic [Costumer] had been more than happy to make up a few more things for Erin, especially given how small they were. So the [Innkeeper] had asked for several…patches to run down one collar.
Badges. Of honor? Shame?
Icons that defined her.
A frying pan and an acid jar.
A crimson fang dripping with blood joined by five green hands at the center.
A skeleton’s face with purple flames for eyes.
A footprint in red.
A little yellow flower.
A howling Gnoll in white…
 
There was not enough space on her jacket for them all. But each patch seemed bright, as if they were the only things that mattered on the dark cloth. They gazed at each other, taking in every line of the other’s clothing.
This is what you chose to wear? Why? I want to understand.
The smallest of details. The gloves on Erin’s hands had silver fingertips. Ulvama’s armor had a central splash of gold. A glittering, beautiful color that was fake. The color of…pyrite. From that line of power, everything else flowed.
The [Innkeeper] had a kitchen knife sheathed at her hip. The Hobgoblin had embedded needles as sharp as Bowom’s scalpels in her hair.
Erin’s boots made her quite a bit taller. Ulvama’s boots didn’t have strings; you slipped them on and tightened straps, but she didn’t have shoelaces.
So many little details. The two stood there as people turned, admiring their costumes, seeing the two meeting and wondering, perhaps, if they were going to fight or who was in the right. Supporters, friends, curious people drawn to the duo despite the concert.
…Which had ended. Erin and Ulvama started when they registered the lack of sound as opposed to its presence.
At some point, while they looked at each other in silence, unmoving, the entire concert had come and gone. The recording was being edited, and then?
“Hey, Ulvama. Um. Can we t—”
“Erin! We did it!”
Elohi flung herself forwards, and Bowom raised his scalpel to stab. Roja held him back as Elohi and the Cats surrounded Erin, cheering.
And they hadn’t even won! It wasn’t about winning, it was about the Battle of the Bands 4—
Suddenly, all the bands were here, cheering for Erin, mixing with the fans who were shouting.
“Hey, Miss Goblin? Is that you?”
Ulvama had her own Fraerlings who wanted to say hello. Erin was shaking hands, getting hugs, trying to make herself heard.
“I, uh, this is great, guys! Congrats! Who won? Let me just—”
On the other side, Ulvama was trying her scuttling technique, but she nearly knocked over two excited Fraerling children who promptly climbed on her, and she held them so carefully as they reached for her mask—
Zemmy eyed one of the kids and slowly raised a foot. If he kicked just right, he reckoned he could send the kid flying without any damage—
“Excuse me, what are you doing to my son?”
A Fraerling woman was watching him. Zemmy hesitated. How was he supposed to punch his way out of…?
Eurise was sipping from a drink as he watched the two overly-popular women trying to break free of the crowd. Roja shouted at him.
“Eurise, c’mon, help!”
“They’ll get free eventually. Night’s long.”
She glared at him, and after twenty more minutes, Eurise had to admit—it might be difficult. And that was that. Bowom was being held back from doing Bowom things, and he eventually just stomped off through the crowd. People not falling asleep on the spot like [Restorer] Ginthe were talking excitedly, and neither Ulvama nor Erin could quite find an opening to get free. Mostly because the other person was busy, and in a few minutes, surely…
Well, that was the end of the night. Matha stood there, peering at the two who had come so close, but were so far. She closed her eyes and found one of the tankards of ale on the table. She slowly and deliberately poured it down her back, and as Eurise raised his brows, she turned the microphone on and spoke into it.
“Excuse me, everyone. I have just pooped myself. It is coming out at high-velocity. Please stand back.”
Every head turned. Members of the Battle of the Bands who had been familiar with Matha’s illness and just…everyone in general took one look at the brown stains dripping onto the—
It was amazing how fast the area cleared. Laughter, shock, a call for a [Healer]…and then Erin Solstice was alone. Probably because Matha was right next to her.
“Um, do you need a [Healer], Matha—?”
The [Raider] was bright red, but she rolled her eyes at Erin and jerked her head. And Erin realized Matha was embarrassed but lying…her eyes opened wide, and then Matha was stumbling out of the crowd as Bowom tossed a child skywards, and everyone ran to catch them.
There they were. Bowom ran off, and Matha spoke.
“Um. Hey, fancy you two being here! Let’s go, everyone! C’mon, Eurise, Mera, Zemmy! No arguments or I’ll poop on you!”
She stormed the table, and there were exclamations, shouts—the Battle Hamster had to be dragged off by Mera and Zemmy—and then Erin and Ulvama were sitting there.
Awkwardly. Mostly, because while Matha had cleared the immediate, ten-foot radius with her stunt…everyone had just vacated to adjourning tables and were turning to stare.
Though perhaps neither one even noticed. Erin glanced at the tablecloth and messy plates, and her stomach grumbled.
“Aw. I missed dinner. I haven’t eaten since lunch.”
“Me too.”
Between Ulvama’s goings-on with Bowom and her Dreamleaf ritual, the most she’d had was a leaf-edible.
Instantly, food appeared on the tables. Aphid meat nachos. Druid Wraps, licorice-dew drops—the two blinked. And then Ulvama fidgeted.
“I have a mask. Magic-casters made it.”
“Oh. Yeah. And this awesome [Costumer] made my stuff.”
“Mine is armor. For the journey.”
“Nice. Mine’s…well, I guess I could wear it. But the helmet’s really hot. I should take it off. One sec. Uh…it’s stuck.”
It finally popped off Erin’s head, exposing a sweaty face—and her new haircut. Ulvama’s eyes widened, and she stopped taking her mask off and shoved it back down over her face.
The [Innkeeper] misinterpreted the Hobgoblin’s actions. The one person she couldn’t read, aside from Eurise—she glanced down at her lap.
“Right. I’ve been a jerk. We were fighting. About Garry…”
“Oh. Yah.”
The Hobgoblin closed her eyes, and the silence between them grew heavy again. Ulvama hesitated.
“I forgi—”
“Don’t do that.”
A pause, and Ulvama nodded.
“…You want to talk? I think—talking is important. Is—is Garry okay?”
Erin shrugged as she picked up a Druid Wrap and sniffed it suspiciously. It was vegetarian, but [Druids] ate weird things.
“He’s on another delivery. And he just freed a bunch of [Slaves] in the Hivelands.”
“He what? Is he okay? If you need to check on him—”
A groan silenced at once. Neither one noticed. Erin glanced at Ulvama and shook her head.
“He’s going to be fine without me. I think he’d kick my ass if I bothered him. Hey…your outfit’s awesome.”
“Yah. You…dressed up.”
“Well, Matha encouraged me to do it. She didn’t make me. I just thought it was cool. Like Theillige.”
“Oh. This mask…it’s from my tribe. Not from my tribe. But same style.”
Erin smiled and brushed at her hair again.
“The Molten Stone tribe? I always wanted to know what that looked like.”
Slowly, the mask rose, and Ulvama’s features appeared. The Hobgoblin shyly handed Erin the mask, then picked up one of the aphid nachos and took a bite. Dipped it in some sauce.
“Whoa, it’s…cool. The armor, I mean. The nachos are tasty.”
Erin tried to put the mask on, then hesitated.
“This isn’t weird if I do it, right? Can I try it—”
The sight of the Human wearing the Goblin’s mask made Ulvama turn.
“Yah, it’s fine. Give me the helmet.”
She snatched it, and Erin took the mask off after a moment. Took a huge bite of the Druid Wrap and had to wash it down with the liquorice water. They were eating, but after a second—Ulvama glanced up.
“The banner.”
That was all she said. Erin reached out, and the banner on her shoulder planted on the ground. She gazed up at the white fabric hanging under the moonlight.
“Yeah. I guess I took it because…it matters. This does. I know that’s silly, but—”
“No. I see it. It’s you. Just like this is me.”
The [Shaman] indicated her outfit, and Erin paused.
“So it is.”
The most nothing statement in the world seemed to matter. At least, to them. Erin stopped eating as Ulvama gazed at her. And the [Innkeeper] closed her eyes. It seemed to all watching that she would have preferred to put the helmet on.
“Yeah. It’s not just a costume. It’s…not who I am. But it’s something. Theillige. The banner. I guess—that’s you. Funny. I never imagined it.”
Not Ulvama in all that armor. Yet it suited her. The same was true of Erin. The [Innkeeper] knew that this was where Ulvama deserved a compliment. Matha or anyone else could do it. But what did she say?
It’s nice?
It wasn’t. It was Ulvama. And that…
After a second, she realized that Ulvama’s crimson eyes were glistening with more than the light from the concert stage. Tears were running down her cheeks. Dripping onto the nachos. Erin froze up.
“Ulvama? What’s wrong…?”
“Nothing.”
Ulvama averted her gaze. But she was crying. Not just cool-crying either. Stifling sobs, hiccuping at the same time. Her nose started running, and she grabbed for a napkin, tried to hide her face.
Erin and the audience were speechless, then worried.
“What’s wrong? I’m sorry. I—”
“It not you. It not!”
Ulvama’s protest made one of the Fraerlings aiming a brick at Erin’s head lower it. The rest held fire—waiting. She wiped furiously at her eyes. And then she choked.
“It’s just that it’s you. I wondered and wondered, and that’s…you, isn’t it? I see it now. And…that’s good.”
“Right. But…?”
Surely there was a ‘but’. Ulvama hiccuped again and tried to make sense of it as Erin’s heart beat painfully.
“But now I know. I see you, and you see me. Maybe we’re disappointed. Maybe that’s it. Nothing else to know.”
Maybe there’s nothing in here but a monster or emptiness. Erin’s eyes widened, and she sat, speechless, as the Hobgoblin cried, overwhelmed by something she couldn’t fully articulate.
However, her words were an echo of what Erin had told Matha she feared. What if they had nothing left to show each other? If this one moment was it—
Such a silly fear. Such a true one. She had to reassure Ulvama, but how?
The [Innkeeper]’s head whirled, and no one had any advice for her. Eurise ducked behind Roja. Mera and Zemmy were holding each other, and Matha was standing there, stricken.
But Erin didn’t see any of them. Not a face in the sea of thousands. Just Ulvama crying. She gazed down at the clothing and then around. Then she focused on something and stood up. The [Innkeeper] reached down and performed an act of magic.
She yanked the tablecloth off the table they were sitting at so fast that all the dishes and drinks mostly stayed where they were. One did fly off and douse Elohi, but Ulvama blinked. She saw the [Innkeeper] shake the tablecloth out, then whirl it around her shoulders. And then, she pulled a chair out and—
Sat.
At first, the stained sheet of white caught the air, but as the figure knelt, one foot resting on the chair, the other stretched out, the fabric changed.
The dark of the night bled onto the white fabric until it was the same color as the sky above. A canvas that swirled—then caught fire as the [Witch] came to rest. A flaming cloak draped itself around her, blazing like the hat upon her head.
A witch opened her eyes as the Goblin’s tears stopped, and the flames rained down onto her cloak. She shifted, whirling it around her, and the cyclone forced everyone but Ulvama back. A hundred flames upon her robes, like a Great Witch of ages past.
“H-hey.”
Erin leaned over the table as Ulvama blinked, her eyes wide. The [Innkeeper] touched her hat, and gone was the biker, the woman with the flag. The witch of flames’ eyes shone as she spoke, looking Ulvama directly in the eyes.
“Don’t think you’ve seen everything. I have a hundred things to show you.”
She glanced down at the tablecloth dyed with night, pulled from the air itself, and blinked.
“Whoa. I didn’t even know I could do…this costume is just as good as my other one. But it’s missing…”
The silent [Innkeeper] needed something else. Ulvama’s tears were drying as the flames bathed her with light. Unconsciously, she reached down and pulled something out. Then handed it to Erin.
It was a long pipe. Erin’s eyes widened. Without a word, she accepted it, and her flames lit the pipe. She hesitated, then blew. Even if it was smoke, in this moment…
A glowing, yellow bubble the color of the rising sun emerged from the end of the pipe. Erin blinked, and the light illuminated her face as it rose skywards. She stared at it, then puffed on the pipe again, and another glowing bubble rose.
Then another. Her eyes fixed on Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin smiled. The enchanted pipe she’d asked for blew a stream of colored lights up as the witch’s cloak burned.
Then—Ulvama had forgotten why she was crying. And Erin stood.
“Hey. Can we talk? Privately?”
They cast around, but the audience was gone. Walking off, waving—suddenly no longer interested. Or rather, fascinated, but filled with a sense of closure. A feeling that whatever came next…they’d be real voyeurs for watching. Ulvama laughed, embarrassed, and Erin blushed.
“Geeze. I never got what was so interesting about watching people. Then I started an inn. But privacy, c’mon.”
Ulvama looked around and saw no one. Tentatively, she reached out, then put one edge of the flaming cloak over her shoulders. For some reason, she knew it wouldn’t burn her. She sat with Erin at the table. And then?
They spoke. For a little while.
 
——
 
“I’m sorry.”
That was the first thing Erin said after a long silence. Ulvama glanced at her.
“Me, too. I’m glad Garry lived. I’m sorry I didn’t…I was afraid you’d hurt yourself.”
“Yeah. Again. I do that a lot. I understand. It’s just—and I’m sorry for what I did. I just…I didn’t understand what I did that was so wrong.”
Ulvama bit one lip, and Erin glanced at her. Really looked at her, without glancing away like she usually did. Now, she studied Ulvama’s features, and finally, she saw it. Remembered how Ulvama had looked that day.
“Armpits. I really hurt your feelings, huh? I thought I was just teasing until…”
A claw traced a pattern on the table, and Ulvama felt the pain again, but it was like a thorn being pulled. She was relieved as she spoke. The honesty she didn’t want to tell Erin.
The image of the Mountain City [Shaman]…she imagined a silent Goblin sitting there, chewing on mud or something, and thought the [Innkeeper] would understand too.
“I don’t…feel proud of my body at all, Erin. I know it looks good. I know people want it. But it—sometimes I look at it, and it hurts. What you said made me feel like it was worth something.”
The [Innkeeper] digested this, then the flames on her hat and cloak died down.
“Oh. That’s what I did to you? I—I was angry because I saw Matha looking. I thought I was protecting you.”
“I understand. It just…does this look beautiful? I can’t tell.”
Ulvama touched her cheeks and turned her face to Erin. The [Innkeeper] studied her, eyes opened wide.
“I think you look amazing.”
The Hobgoblin offered her a wretched smile.
“Thanks. I can’t tell. Just what other people think. Sometimes, it feels good and I think I know what they see, and I like it. When I danced in front of the Fraerlings. But other times, it feels like they stare and see something else.”
“And I did that to you. I’m so sorry.”
“It’s okay.”
Erin hung her head.
“No. It’s not. I know what that feels like, Ulvama. I don’t really feel great about my body most times. It’s just there. Sometimes…”
She brushed at her discolored hair. Touched her wrists and neck.
“…Well, I don’t think it got much worse. But it’s not great. So that’s—yeah. Wanna talk about the other thing? I shouldn’t have—”
“I knew Tremborag raped women. I saw it happen. I didn’t stop it. He told me it was revenge. I just wasn’t brave enough to stop him.”
Ulvama put the words out and felt them like poison on her skin. She was grateful that Erin didn’t make an excuse. The [Innkeeper] just nodded.
“But you came for me.”
“One brave thing. I hurt more than I helped.”
“Maybe. But you saved me. That’s a start. I let down the first kid who ever found his way to my inn. I watched him kill himself because I never understood him. Toren. I don’t pay attention to things. When you talked about Garry like he was me, I got angry.”
Ulvama averted her gaze.
“He was doing the right thing. Did he free [Slaves]? Really?”
“Yeah, but I get it. The reason why you were upset. And the reason I got so angry was because…he was exactly like me. I just couldn’t stop him, Ulvama.”
Erin was staring at her, and the Hobgoblin nodded miserably.
“I know.”
“I’m…not a Chieftain, Ulvama. My guests at my inn aren’t a tribe. I can’t control them. I can only send them out, and if they die—I’m terrified. I’ll do everything in my power to help them, but I can never rule them.”
The Hobgoblin did not want to hear this. She gripped one knee, and her hand shook, and Erin saw, again, her tension and fear. But again, didn’t get it. This time, Ulvama saw that and spoke.
“I know, Erin. I know. But…the Chieftain keeps us safe. That’s how it works. They can’t always. But that’s how it should be. How it should be matters more than how it is.”
“Okay…but why do I have to be the Chieftain? Can’t I just be the [Innkeeper] and—and you be my guest and everyone be family and friends? I’ll do everything for them, the ones that matter. Why’s the word matter?”
“Well, when—”
Ulvama’s throat closed up. She swallowed, feeling her eyes sting. Her heart hurting. Then she forced herself to look at Erin and ask.
“When is it my turn to be Garry, Erin? To go out and do great things or die? To become your hero? I’m afraid of what you can make me into.”
The [Innkeeper] went still. Ulvama trembled. She wasn’t brave. At last, Erin rasped.
“I’ll never ask. I swear, Ulvama.”
“Is it something we become? So many…Rags, the Horns. Even Pebblesnatch. I’m afraid of what you bring out. I’m a coward. I can’t—I can’t do that.”
The Hobgoblin hugged her knees, and Erin shook her head, trying to deny her nature. The [Shaman] was afraid she’d just say that she didn’t do it, but after a long moment, Erin closed her eyes and thought. She spoke, eyes closed.
“I don’t know how to reassure you. I swear, I never ask. Not Moore. Not Halrac. But I need them, and…yeah. I guess—with Garry he saw what I was doing and did what was logical to him. Yet he never even asked for advice. He did it all, and I just happened to realize what he was doing. If I never talked to him, he would have done it anyways. I’m sure of that. He didn’t need me to succeed. He didn’t need the inn. That’s why I was so proud, Ulvama. So…relieved. He wasn’t me.”
“But he did it because he knew you.”
Erin was working through a puzzle in her head, and Ulvama’s frightened words made her smile. She threw her head back, and her eyes gleamed suddenly.
“Yes. He did. But you know what? It won’t be something you become, Ulvama. Or even I. And you know why? It’s because Garry’s better than you or me.”
The Hobgoblin stopped trembling. She peeked up at Erin, incredulous.
“Don’t lie. He’s not better than you.”
The young Human woman gave Ulvama a completely straightfaced expression of skepticism.
“Ulvama. I know what I am, and I know what I saw. He won’t stop. I mean it. Garry’s like…let me explain. He’s like—Pisces!”
She snapped her fingers, and Ulvama’s expression of disbelief grew larger on her face, but Erin stood up, spreading her hands as her cloak fell back on the table.
“Don’t give me that look. I’m the skeptic. I’m Pisces’ biggest fake-hater. But you know him. You saw what he survived. And what he’s becoming. He’s not just some Gold-rank adventurer. He’s not a genius [Necromancer]. He’s…Pisces. Do you think I made him?”
“…Well, yeah.”
Erin laughed out loud. She craned her head back and shook it, wagging a finger at Ulvama. Now, a true smile was on her face.
“I’ll take credit for it because I want some. But that’s a lie. What did I do for Pisces? I just fed him a few times and said something important once. Just once. Mrsha could write out a better motivational line over breakfast. It was he who remembered it. Change him? Make him into what he is? I just scraped off some of the dirt he wears, and he shone like—”
She was stretching her hands upwards towards the bubbles still floating up in the city. And she believed every word. The [Shaman] listened, the cloak wrapped around her for warmth. Erin sat down.
“I’m the innkeeper, Ulvama. I serve the people who change this world, and I guess I can change things, but I’m not as powerful as you think I am.”
Ulvama nodded.
“I’m the shaman, Erin. All I do is guide. I’m not mighty. I need someone to follow. I just…you scare me. I don’t think I can keep up with you. I was afraid. Afraid of believing in someone. Even you. I used to be a girl who could learn to fly. Now, I’m old, and I’m afraid of changing.”
“You’ve changed a bunch since I met you. I thought you were some jerk who ate all the time and kicked Mrsha.”
Erin turned to Ulvama and grabbed her hands. Ulvama blushed.
“I was. But my third life…did I tell you about lives?”
Erin shook her head, so Ulvama explained her life-theory, and Erin exhaled. Her gaze grew distant.
“If you’d have said that to me a while ago, I’d have said I only had one life. Because I didn’t want to change either. I’m sorry I brought you through all this.”
“No, no!”
Ulvama tightened her grip on Erin’s hands, trying to get her to understand. She shook her head rapidly.
“This is good, Erin. My second life was filled with regrets. I thought I wanted it, but when I followed you…it was the most scared I ever was. When I was alone in Baleros, I was terrified and the most unhappy. But it felt right. I’m afraid of change. But—but sometimes I want you to be the person who makes Pisceses and Garrys. Sometimes, I want you to turn me into that person. So I can leave the Hobgoblin who was alone and full of regrets behind.”
Erin’s face changed from a smile to pain, then fear.
“I—I don’t want to do that to anyone, Ulvama. I don’t want to control. Matha told me about her grandmother, Zinni. That’s not who I want to be either.”
“People come to you because they want you to help them, Erin. Ishkr stays because he chooses.”
“Yeah. Ishkr. Okay, I do change people, but you—no. I don’t want to force you to leave who you are. I want to help, but not that. Does that make sense?”
They were speaking in circles a bit. Desperate to get back to the heart of something she felt was the most important. Ulvama blurted out a random thought she’d had.
“Is that why you never put your [Boon of the Guest] on me?”
It wasn’t like Erin just gave it out, but even in the jungle of Baleros…Erin blinked and then glanced down at Ulvama’s legs.
“Huh. I guess…I didn’t. I think you’re right. I don’t want you to change, Ulvama. Not like that. But then—”
She glanced down at Ulvama’s armor again.
“This suits you. I think this is a good change. Ulvama…thank you for speaking to me. I know I apologized, but I’ve got to say it again.”
“This time is both our faults. Sorry.”
Ulvama whispered, and Erin took in a huge breath. Then another.
“No, it’s…I’m still not being honest. There’s something I’ve been avoiding, Ulvama. And it’s this. I—I don’t know how to say it, but you really bother me. When you poke me. And when you’re chummy with the Battle Hamster, and your armpits, even.”
The Hobgoblin’s mind went blank.
“Huh?”
“Huh?”
There was a faint echo. Erin hesitated.
“That sounds bad. What I mean is…it gets on my nerves.”
“Okay. The poking? I can stop.”
“No, not just the poking!”
Now, Ulvama was getting irritated despite all the goodwill they’d built up.
“If it’s just one thing I do, I can stop, Erin!”
“No, it’s everything!”
The [Innkeeper] threw up her hands and shouted, and Ulvama recoiled. Erin blushed and glared.
“Everything you do bothers me! I can’t get it off my mind. Yes, I was mad about Matha flirting, but she’s not so bad. But we were together before Dretonamis, and even though I was melting…it was us. Suddenly, you’re always hanging out with the damn Hamster, and he hisses when I get close, and that annoys the shit out of me. And you know why that is?”
The Goblin woman had not a thought in her head as she waited, open-mouthed, and Erin leaned forwards.
“It’s because…you’re too important.”
“Me?”
Ulvama was breathless, and Erin nodded, scrubbing at her hair, grimacing, frustrated.
“Yes. In the best way and…and worst. Back in the inn, I had plenty of people who mattered. Lyonette—I used to not really respect her, but now she’s, like, someone I’ll always listen to. I learned. I let people down, like Toren, or trusted the wrong people, but now I can tell who matters. I have a family. But you…you’re different. How can I explain?”
She got on the table and paced around in a circle.
“Lyonette’s a good example. Lyonette I’ll listen to. I trust. I don’t agree with her all the time because she’s got her opinions, but she’s my person. You? You saved me from Roshal. You were there when I needed help. Somehow, it started with us dancing together, and then…no one knows me, sometimes. I hide a lot. But you see right through me.”
The things only Ulvama noticed. Just as she’d told Matha. Ulvama might not understand her mind, but Erin spread her hands and wondered if Ulvama could see her rapidly-beating heart.
“That’s different, Ulvama. You’re the only person who’s ever done that. It’s why you annoy me more than anyone. Why I listen to you, and—why we fight so damn hard, I think. It’s personal. You, me? We’re not just best friends. Lyonette and I are best friends. And so is Saliss, because I guess I’m that person who has multiple best friends, but you and I? We’re…something else.”
Ulvama nodded silently. Erin gave her an embarrassed smile.
“Look, I know I’m just saying all this. If I’m just that annoying [Innkeeper] that you’re stuck with, I—”
“No. You’re right. You…annoy me more than anyone else. I don’t cry for anyone. Not anymore. But you I cry over. You, and one other person ever, I want to tell the truth to always. But you make it so hard.”
The Hobgoblin gazed at Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s smile was relieved.
“Well, that’s it, Ulvama. I’m gonna be jealous if you talk to other people. Because…no one else I’ve met in this world gets me. I hate it, sometimes. But I just want to hang out more.”
“Yah. Me…too. I just didn’t—didn’t think of it like that. Too complicated.”
“I know, right?”
The two were sitting in the empty concert hall, and Ulvama edged closer. There was liquorice on Erin’s breath as the [Innkeeper] stared into those crimson eyes. And Ulvama was drowning in a hazel glow.
“Ulvama, even if we get out of Baleros, I think I’d be fine being stuck together. But if you don’t want—”
“No. I want that. I do, Erin.”
“Oh. Awesome.”
Closer, now. And the [Innkeeper] reached out and hesitated.
“Can I touch your shoulder? I’ve been wanting to poke you back and touch you, but consent and stuff.”
“S-sure?”
Ulvama flinched a bit, but Erin rested a hand on her shoulder, then breathed out.
“Whoa.”
Yeah. Now, Ulvama was inches away from Erin’s face, and the [Innkeeper] seemed drawn forwards, hypnotized. They were closer now, and Ulvama’s eyes closed. Her heart—
Had it beaten like this since she was young? She felt a breath on her face, and the moment felt eternal. Immortal. As if the [Innkeeper] was trying to capture this forever.
But it was agony. A painful, blissful paradise hell. Worse torture than anything. Ulvama leaned forwards at last, and Erin?
Erin kissed Ulvama. Right on the forehead.
“…Huh?”
The [Innkeeper] landed another kiss, then hugged Ulvama so hard Ulvama lost all her breath—but she was already in mental lockdown. Erin rubbed Ulvama’s hair, then leapt up.
“This is great. Wow! I said it! I’ve never—I feel so much better.”
“Wuh.”
The [Innkeeper] jumped off the table and ran around it, speaking a mile a minute as the Hobgoblin sat there.
“And the tablecloth and your armor! Can I touch it? No, wait, we’re mutually respectful, right? Getting handsy feels weird, but—hey, this is an amazing day. I’ve gotta thank Matha and everyone! We should get back to them soon.”
She was red-cheeked. Ulvama noticed that, and Erin jogged back over to grab Ulvama’s hand.
“C’mon, let’s go.”
“To other people.”
“Yeah!”
“Now?”
Erin tugged.
“Yeah, c’mon, Ulvama. This has been an amazing heart-to-heart. You’re, well, you.”
“Someone closer than a best friend. Someone you want to touch and get jealous of. Someone who knows you more than anyone else in the world.”
Ulvama repeated those things just so it was clear. Erin nodded. She stared into Ulvama’s eyes, then blushed.
“All true. We don’t gotta spread it around. C’mon, let’s go. You can cheer up the Hamster I guess. I should make friends with him.”
Erin was suddenly very conscious of the time they’d taken and glanced around. The Hobgoblin saw Erin scratching at her head.
“Eurise, Roja, Mera, and Zemmy are all back at the house. Where’s Bowom…huh, he’s visiting—c’mon, Ulvama. We’d better get back or they’ll think we’re making out or something.”
She laughed, self-conscious, and the Hobgoblin rubbed at her forehead.
“They’d think…that?”
“Yeah. Like we’re gay. Not that there’s anything wrong with that!”
Erin hurriedly added. She glanced back at Ulvama and then reached out. Her fingers brushed Ulvama’s shoulder, then jumped away. The [Innkeeper] saw Ulvama glancing at her hand, and she whirled around.
“Wait, you know what? I have to pee. I’ve been sweating for ages, and this might be the one chance I get before more talking. Want to come with? We can be bathroom buddies.”
Ulvama watched Erin leap off the table and [Flutter Run] towards the public restroom. The Hobgoblin remained sitting there as the [Innkeeper] spun around, and she was full of energy, literally running on air.
“…No. You go without me.”
Her tone was the only thing that brought Erin down out of the clouds. The [Innkeeper] halted mid-run and whirled, suddenly concerned.
“I didn’t say anything wrong, did I, Ulvama? I can’t read you at all. Which is weird.”
“No. Nope. All is good. I just don’t need to pee.”
Ulvama forced a smile, and Erin beamed, oblivious. Then the Hobgoblin was left alone.
The empty concert grounds were very dark, illuminated only by a few residual [Light] spells on stage and the flaming cloak wrapped around Ulvama. She just sat, as if someone had kicked her in the guts.
Not sure if she should be hurt or…no. Erin Solstice was beaming as she ran into the bathrooms. A purple flame burned bright on her hat and the cloak. Ulvama touched it, then her forehead.
“So then why…?”
A few mental dots in her head began to connect. The Hobgoblin frowned as she put together something she’d been thinking of for a long time. Maybe…
She was no Erin Solstice, who could read everyone but Ulvama and Eurise with great instincts, but Ulvama was still a [Shaman] who had specialized in a different kind of interpersonal connection. The one thing Erin was bad at.
“No. That wasn’t my imagination.”
Ulvama’s eyes narrowed. She glanced towards the bathrooms and then half-rose.
“That stupid idiot—!”
She began to get annoyed, then furious, then gazed down at the purple flames. Ulvama’s eyes widened, and she put something else together. She sat down, suddenly, as her anger left her with a laugh.
“Is that it? Oh, Erin. Is that…you silly thing. You poor [Innkeeper].”
Her eyes opened wide with sympathy and a kind of twisted hilarity only a Goblin would appreciate. It made so much sense! Ulvama laughed, then kicked all the objects on the table off, spitting Goblin curses.
Then she ran to scoop Erin’s cloak off the ground. She swung it around herself and stood there in the silence. Anger, humor, and understanding.
“…You truly did belong right where you landed in this world, didn’t you? Among the Drakes. Silly woman. I wish…no. We met at the exact right moment. I think.”
For once. Ulvama closed her eyes, and she wrapped the cloak around her tighter, letting the blaze of a hundred lights warm her like an [Innkeeper]’s embrace. But Erin hadn’t managed to do quite that. So this would do. For a moment. Ulvama inhaled, and then when she exhaled, she laughed softly.
“Okay then.”
She knew what she had to do. Suddenly, it was all clear. The Hobgoblin cricked her neck and smiled as her own passions and excitement lit like an exploding [Fireball] amidst dry grass. She was perfect for this! She could—
For a moment, the Goblin’s teeth shone like a [Huntress] smiling at a white stag which had crossed her path. Then the smile faded. And Ulvama felt something on her forehead.
Her mask. All but forgotten…she took it off her head and gazed at the fierce little expression on the painted wood. A memory brought back to life. A little Goblin’s mask.
The wind blew softly over the concert grounds, ruffling her hair, and chased away the feeling in Ulvama’s chest. The surging huntress.
“No. Not like that. Then how?”
Then she was just as lost. Standing there, uncertain of how…until she gazed down at the helmet that Erin had put on the table. The [Shaman of the Old Ways] turned—
And stared back at a lonely Goblin crying as an [Innkeeper] noisily tromped into her camp. A pair of silly, Fraerling-sized explorers. She exhaled.
“Oh. My turn to find her and show her the land she’s afraid of. That she can’t even see.”
One step at a time. Like what it was, and should be. The grandest of adventures. As it had begun for them, in the darkest of cells, ever-upwards until they found that triumphant light.
Now it burned around her, a witch’s cloak of flames. Ulvama saw the path forwards, at last, and smiled. Then she laughed softly. And rubbed her forehead and put her hands to her cheeks, and they were red.
“So that’s what it was. It’s so simple.”
“Yeah. That means I have a chance, right?”
The Hobgoblin froze. She turned her head as a table rustled, and Matha poked her head out from under it. She was red-cheeked, highly embarrassed, having eavesdropped on the entire conversation. Which no one else had. Only a voyeur of the highest magnitude would…
Erin Solstice really had a one-track mind sometimes. She hadn’t even noticed Matha so focused she’d been on—Ulvama stared at Matha. The [Raider] beamed at her. She scrambled up and adjusted her messy costume.
“Just so you know, I’m also really interested in you, Ulvama. And if you two want, we could go for a throup—”
“Gyaaaaah!”
Ulvama kicked Matha in the stomach as hard as she could, and the Fraerling grabbed her stomach and fell over. Ulvama [Sticky Webbed] her to the ground and then ran off to find Erin. Annoyed, exasperated, and…delighted.
She’d found something out about the [Innkeeper] that no one in this entire world knew, including Erin herself. Matha didn’t count. The Hobgoblin wanted to be there when Erin realized it about herself.
It would make her third life completely different.
 
——
 
Erin sat in the bathroom in a state of much relief. For such a heartfelt conversation…why did the bladder have to intrude? But even afterwards, she fanned herself, then pressed her hands to her cheeks.
She was still flushed. The [Innkeeper] spoke out loud to no one in particular.
“Geeze, is it hot in here, or just me?”
She was going to remember that feeling on her lips for a long time. Heck, kissing people on the forehead was sort of cool. Who knew?
 
[Class Change: Dancer → Dancer of Advent class!]
[Dancer of Advent Level 14!]
[Dance – Phoenix’s Tango Learned!]
[Skill – Speed Dash Obtained!]
[Skill – Outfit: The Armored Biker Created!]
[Skill – Recreate My Iconic Look Obtained!]
 
[Shaman of the Old Ways Level 40!]
[Class Change: Shaman of the Old Ways → Mirmilin Es’hivule Sekururu Class Created!]
[Mirmilin Es’hivule Sekururu Level 41!]
[Bound Item – Mask of the Yellow Smog Tribe Assigned!]
[Skill – Spidercrawl (Web Fingers) Obtained!]
[Spell – Sigil of the Magical Beast Learned!]
[Skill – Child of Many Worlds Obtained!]
[Skill – Harmonized Magecraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Synchronized Shamanism Obtained!]
[Skill – Sympathetic Witchcraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Universal Faith Obtained!]
[Skill – A Tribe of Two, Worth the Weight of Thousands Obtained!]
 
“Huh? What does that…‘sekururu’? I don’t know…what does that mean?”
 
——
 
[Lovestruck Punk Level 14!]
[Skill – Dissonant Guitar Howl Obtained!]
[Skill – Advanced Leadership Obtained!]
[Skill – The Unspottable Voyeur Obtained!]
[Skill – Resistance: Bludgeoning Obtained!]
 
“Hey. That’s—well, okay.”
 
——
 
The end. A conclusion that no one quite expected, but changed everything. Classic…well, something. From there, the world moved.
Just like the [Baker], whose level only increased. Lemoste slept, and its inhabitants slumbered.
Some of them a bit too well. Like Restorer Ginthe and most of the medical staff in the local hospital, who’d finally taken a break for the concert. There was barely anyone awake there, and the poor Fraerling with the centipede in his guts?
Fine. Discharged a while ago, in fact. Barely a two-cut job. Remove the still-living centipede, sew. In, out, one minute. Damn thing had been alive despite being dismembered; the head must have been swallowed, and it reconnected the parts in the stomach. Fascinating regenerative properties, but the patient had been advised to chew more thoroughly.
That was an expert for you. And speaking of experts, of people who should not be forgotten or underestimated…how quickly they forgot.
Once upon a time, they had called him Bowom the Slicer. The [Mad Doctor] of Lemoste. Then had come the patient he had failed and his long exile.
Bowom stood in a room with a locked, enchanted door. A chair was under the doorknob, and it was covered with sealing spells. Windows shuttered. A bright [Light] spell gave him perfect illumination.
Scrolls were lined up neatly next to ampules of surgical liquids. He stood there as someone pounded on the door, but their voice was muffled. And everyone else was asleep.
“I’m sorry, Mieve.”
He spoke to the figure lying on the long table, who gazed up at him, unblinking. A smile on her face. She wasn’t asleep yet, but a single syringe of the liquid in his right hand and…
Scalpel in the left. He bent over her and spoke his confession. Because this long stay in Lemoste had given him perspective.
“Just so we’re absolutely clear, nod once for yes, disembowel me for ‘no’. Patient’s rights and consent and all that. Very important.”
She nodded once, still just smiling at him, and he went on as a sensation built in his chest. A long-buried one.
“Then, let me say it again. I’m sorry. I failed you all those years ago. I was a fool, a coward. I am so, so sorry.”
The one patient he had never been able to save, the victim of his work, stared up, and Bowom began to chuckle. It was deep in his throat, then came out of his belly, working its way up his abdomen. Louder and louder until it rang in the room, until it shook the very building.
Laughter. He forced the words out.
“I’m sorry—I didn’t go far enough. Heh. Hahaha. Ahahahaha—heeheeheehee—HAHAHAHAHAHAHA—”
Then he gently pressed the syringe into the tubes running into her body and began the operation.
So, the story was about a [Baker]. A Human and Goblin duo. Even a [Raider], in some ways. And certainly, a [Doctor].
Mad, all of them. Wonderfully, completely, insidiously, truly…
Mad.

10.55 F (2026-02-08)

He had not dreamed since the night before his death. Not once in six hundred and fifty years.
Perhaps, as the [Sage] Y’klitre once claimed, the dead truly did dream. But the undead had no dreams. There was only, for Fetohep of Khelt, the permanent, eternal wake.
He had never described what it felt like for so few, even [Necromancers], had ever asked until his chosen successor had wondered what she might experience. That she had asked when all other candidates over the long centuries had not spoke to the fact she was the best among them. Thus, he had told Pewerthe the [Potter].
“What is it like? Ah…it is a difficult thing to explain. What do you think it is?”
Solemnly, the brown-skinned young woman with a plain, sometimes unnoticeable face—a twice-broken nose from her time as the captive of [Bandits], and eyes that flashed with cunning insight an owl might envy—brushed at some potter’s mud on one cheek. She ignored the handkerchief made of Seasilk that Fetohep pointedly glanced at; he had one placed next to her whenever she attended him.
She did not have royal decorum. Her posture was good, for a [Potter] sat all day, but she smelled of loam. Her clothing was not…refined. She wore a workwoman’s overalls stained with colors and mud. She did not carry herself with his regal authority, as if his will were draped over the throne room itself, a carpet of his regality that made any moment he was part of royal and austere.
These things she must learn, but the stubborn young woman was proud of her class. And she alone in this vast kingdom dared argue with the monarch of Khelt.
It was one of the virtues by which he had chosen her. Khelt’s ruler must have the will to survive dying. Khelt’s ruler must have the morality to lead, the foresight to choose, the strength of arms…
She lacked so many qualities, but so had he. He had few options. If she were to die…Fetohep’s golden gaze focused on Pewerthe as she thought. If she were to die, Alked Fellbow might well be her successor, for all he had no knowledge of Khelt.
Dark times were coming. Nothing Fetohep had placed his faith in might remain. The undead of Khelt had lost their ghosts, the anchor of knowledge and experience that gave them their famed intelligence. Khelt had lost its eternal monarchs who watched over them from the afterlife. And soon Khelt might…
“What do I think it is, Your Majesty? I imagine being undead is…cold.”
“Cold? Why would this be, Potter?”
He smiled, and she ducked her head.
“I do not know, Your Majesty. Perhaps it is because I think of death as cold. Bodies grow cold. Should death not be the same? I imagine you feel, if not cold, then nothing at all, perhaps. That you are will and intention, and your body is but the vessel your spirit inhabits. Much like a—a Golem.”
He shifted, then. Crisscrossing a leg on the throne. For she was not entirely wrong, and her insight sometimes unnerved him, though he would never show it.
“Close.”
Here sat Fetohep of Khelt, whose emaciated body wore open robes of royal purple written with the names of his every subject. Upon his head glinted the bone crown and ivory tokens hand-scribed by Khelta herself. He carried no arms upon his person, but he had been a warrior; when he moved, his grace was that of a king, but the surety came from a man who had once commanded his own body as well as armies.
He…forgot at times. But her words evoked memory, so the King of Khelt spoke.
“It is not pure emptiness, Pewerthe. I would rather it. What will you feel? I recall…exercise as a mortal man. My lungs burning until I could not but breathe. Days when I drank or stayed up too late and lay abed, cursing the sloth that gripped my bones. These feelings…you understand them?”
He glanced at her, and she drew her black brows together.
“…Do I understand staying up too late and wanting to sleep in? Yes, Fetohep.”
“Good. One does wonder about the commonality of experiences. Is it a—common emotion?”
He had forgotten. Pewerthe nodded again, slowly.
“I did it just last night, Your Majesty. Too long writing [Messages]. Half your servants might be too long awake at night, preparing for their duties here or bragging about the honor. Or asking others what they should look at when they are not serving.”
Fetohep glanced at some of the aforementioned servants, who drew from a lottery to work in the palace, and they bowed instantly, staring at Pewerthe with frank amazement that she dared be so open—or that Fetohep was so interested in their lives. He saw a flash of silver hair, yellow, pink—coloring one’s hair was all the rage, he understood.
Fashions swept Khelt like a faerie’s fancy. One day he would see everyone with hats, desiring the biggest, the best, and the next, they had it in their heads to learn fencing or play tennis. New things from Earth were always hits.
He had thought…truly thought that when he proclaimed they should learn a practical trade, learn to fight or gain classes, they would stick with it.
They had not. In the weeks after his return from the great battles at the Meeting of Tribes, they had been passionate. In a month, all but those who had found something to love had ceased to practice skill at arms or show up for daily practice. Today…
This story of Khelt’s woes was a long one. Fetohep returned his attention to Pewerthe.
She gave him hope.
“Then you understand the opposite, Pewerthe. When one is filled with energy after a day of rest. When you spring out of bed or drink the strongest tea or restorative before heading into battle. That shaking adrenaline? To be undead is to be…just before that. Not tired. But not full of energy either. It is to be active, to be filled with just enough energy as to never want for more. And never to feel otherwise.”
He was always awake. He always could exert his body or mind to the utmost capacity. But he would never again feel that burning rush. Pewerthe seemed to understand this, because her smile dimmed.
“It seems…difficult to be always so, Your Majesty.”
“Perhaps.”
An admission he would not have made last year. Fetohep lifted a hand, summoning a cup filled with liquid mana. He showed her the liquid which could fall and become a gas-like haze if he sloshed it unwisely.
“Some things—magic—can create a sense of greater energy or reduce it within me. Otherwise, I am thus. Much like a Golem, as you say. Though I do feel my body. It has no sensation. No pain, but I can feel it. I know the shape of my hand. I know it flexes, but not what that feels like. This is what it means to be undead. But also…”
His head turned sideways just so. Chin turned up, and he tapped his bare, yellowed teeth with a finger.
“Perhaps an illustration of other rulers of Khelt would do. Servants. Find me smaller illustrations of the rulers of Khelt. All of them.”
The servants attending the two dashed from the room with bows, hurrying to find images of Khelta, Serept, and the other rulers preceding Fetohep. Pewerthe raised her brows.
“I have seen the many likenesses of…oh.”
Fetohep waited for the servants to rush off before returning to the conversation. He did not lower his voice, but she scooted closer on the little chair. These words were for her alone.
“That is how it feels, Pewerthe. But the other thing that is required, the reason I chose you and any of your successors must have the same will, is this. There is the silence. The mortal form I bear, and my soul for company. We are alone. Betimes, I feel great powers of undeath in the distance, like distant voices. But I share no kinship with other mortals beyond my love of Khelt itself. My heart is silent. Will anchors me. Will and duty. The silence of my resolve and soul. And in the distance…”
His eyes winked out, and his head rose. Fetohep seemed to peer across the great horizon as he had once seen Erin doing. As Khelta had once turned and proclaimed the doom of Khelt. And he heard it. Perhaps the ghosts had forgotten, but he?
“There, like the sea and thundering of the tide, in the distance, oft-ignored or unheard, is that roaring.”
“Roaring, Fetohep?”
The golden flames flickered. The magic flaring in his eyesockets, golden fire pulsing upwards, subtly altered. Was there a flash of green? Just for a second? A single twining light among the gold?
“It sounds like a chorus. A million, a billion, a trillion voices all crying out as one. And below it all, the first word. It speaks one thing: death. A scream urging me to lay waste to the living. To forsake all vows. I know it echoes to every body that rises.”
She shifted. The golden gaze swung back to her, and the green flicker was gone. Fetohep leaned back in his throne.
“It will be loudest when you first wake. Master it. Even the least of Khelt’s dead master it. Khelta spoke of this voice, the will of undeath itself. There is nothing to it.”
“What is it, Your Majesty? Instinct? Some grave curse from the first [Necromancers]?”
He shrugged.
“Khelta’s own writings in her journals are there for you to peruse. I have never found an answer. But that is what it is.”
Will and silence and eternal wake. A grave weight. She sat there and looked him in the eyes, troubled.
“I do not want this, Your Majesty. It sounds like a dreadful curse.”
“I know. It is. Will you bear it, my chosen heir?”
“…Yes.”
He smiled. He always smiled, but he could not in his heart for her. The King of Khelt bowed his head. Then, when she had left for her life of many distractions and delights, he sat there. He did not rest, for he could not. He simply worked.
Duty unending.
 
——
 
His dream came to him as he worked. Sorting through reports of insects in each city, town, and village in his kingdom and manually assigning skeletons to cleaning duties. Going to each one—and he had assigned over two hundred thousand—and re-checking them to make sure they were working and not…going astray.
They were doing it more and more. They obeyed orders, but not with the same grace or efficiency as before. The ghosts were dead. They had given Khelt’s undead their loyalty and minds. Now…they were still loyal, but foolish. Prone to mistakes. Inept; they could get lost. Or, he feared, do worse.
So he checked them. Two hundred thousand plus skeletons, correcting any that ran into issues, moving them to comb street-by-street for the bugs. In places he had never thought to check; cracks in walls, sewers. It had been so easy before.
When he finished checking all two hundred thousand undead, he started again from the beginning. This was how he passed a night, of late. In the days when spring began, he thought he could keep doing this night-after-night.
He was wrong. The dream stole over him as his mind worked, the constant, repetitious nature of his tasks blurring together until the dream came in waking. A vision. Memory and falsity, imagination, all rolled into one.
A man inhaled. He could not remember his own face. Only that when he raised his hands, they were strong, callused. A halberdier’s trained forearms, brown skin like Pewerthe’s…nothing else. Did he have hair? Was he bald? 
The details of his life had fallen from him like the grains of sand blowing around his face. Where was he? He stood in a garden of dead plants and knew it. The wailing gardens of Queen Xierca, his beloved Queen. 18th Ruler of Khelt.
But the plants were dead. The obnoxious blue blooms that drove people away with their wails and screams were rotted to the vine. Withered and flaking away as a sandstorm struck Khelt. But this was wrong.
He had preserved Xierca’s cursed gardens, just transplanted them bloom-by-bloom elsewhere. Sandstorms did not hit the capital of Koirezune; magic protected the citizens from that.
Yet it blew and seemed to take parts of his body away as the man felt at his face and didn’t sense any features. He walked forwards, a puppet, confused. Falling to pieces.
If this was her garden then…
There. He saw Queen Xierca as he had known her. Not as she had come to him, a ghost remembering her stitched flesh, but the withered, mummified corpse adorned in the robes of Khelt’s rulers, just like him. Her eyes glowed with a pale, icy-blue flame. So piercing in their insight that men and women had wept before them.
“My Queen?”
She had been facing the palace. When she turned to him, he saw that eternal smile she wore, like him. Her robes swept around, the fur lining glittering, and he saw her hand rise as the rings he had inherited shone. 
The wind blew. Parts of her face and body flaked away, as if the sand were disintegrating her. Fetohep saw Queen Xierca falling to dust and raised his own hand.
“Xierca?”
Then he saw the palace unmaking itself before the sandstorm. Stumbling, Fetohep tried to climb the stairs, searching for Xierca as she blew away. Going towards the throne room. 
The world was falling to bits. He could see the lower levels of the palace blowing away as he ran now. Lungs straining for breath. His body was so slow, so weak. When he came to the throne room, he could not breathe. He gazed towards the throne, thinking to sit there and halt this. But the throne was gone.
There was only…a stone bier. Frozen, engraved like a tomb of Khelt’s greatest heroes. He had never seen it with his own two eyes, so his imagination made the resting place regal. Fit for the [Queen] who lay there.
Khelta. Her hands were folded across her chest, and she was blowing away as the sandstorm swept into the throne room. Fetohep stumbled forwards and saw three figures kneeling before her berth.
He knew them.
Hecrelunn, the first [Vizir] of Khelt, the great mage and spellcaster, turned crimson eyes to him. He was dwarfed by Thuermenon, the half-Giant who had been Serept’s greatest honor-guard in life. And last was Captain Cikroleth, who had come with Sand at Sea and its undead crew. Each one a protector in Khelt’s hour of need. Its last champions.
They turned to gaze at him, faces emotionless, each one an undead being regarding him from where they had died in the age of legends. He halted, panting, and a final figure rose. 
Erin Solstice. She had been bending over Khelta. But now, as the undead ruler blew away, she stepped backwards. The throne of Khelt appeared behind her, and he waited.
Waited for her to take a seat. But instead, the throne and the wall dissolved into a sea of dust as she was walking. Walking into the Great Desert itself as his kingdom vanished. Only the man remained, now grasping at the sand. The three Revenants regarded him with contempt, sorrow, and pain in their gazes. Then they turned and walked away. And he…
“Your Majesty? Your Majesty.”
—He realized each grain of sand was a face. A soul. Children, men, women of Khelt blowing around him. So many souls, and he tried to capture them in his hands. But they kept streaming towards a darkness engulfing everything as the world itself fell into the void of eternal night, and a woman who was the death of everything beckoned him—
“Your Majesty! Please!”
Then he realized he was dreaming. And woke. When he finally stirred, and voices screamed and gasped and they fell to their knees and sobbed in relief, he realized he had woken to another disaster.
Just like every day in Eternal Khelt.
 
——
 
The story of Eternal Khelt, the great paradise nation, the Necrocracy that had endured for ageless millenia, was truly amazing. It spanned back before some of Terandria’s kingdoms; only those founded by the Hundred Heroes themselves could claim to be older.
For instance, Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Way younger than Khelt. The Walled Cities of Izril could claim to be older in inception, but no other place in Izril. The Five Families were children who had founded their claims in the north as Khelt watched.
Khelt was ancient. It had records dating back to eras of Giants and Dragons, and that was a claim any long-lived nation could state, but Khelt had actual, preserved records. Even they had lost their records in the endless battle against time and the decay of magical bindings, but Khelt was still a goldmine of information, and Named-rank Adventurer Frieke, known as the Falcon of Medain Khelt, loved reading the records.
She was a Dullahan woman who had a Seahawk named Konska. She was a [Falconer], a dangerous multi-role specialist with a powerful bird-ally, and she was utterly convinced that the only reason she had been given a place in Eternal Khelt was to annoy High King Perric of Medain.
And yes, maybe it stung to have her entire adventuring career reduced to a single joke—that of her ‘slaying’ Fetohep, and that she only was here because it was amusing—but one did not quibble with that when paradise came calling.
Frieke liked history. It was one of her quirks. Not that anyone really asked; Fetohep didn’t treat her like Alked Fellbow, whom he seemed to enjoy the company of. She was just…here. So she read histories.
According to the books she read, Khelt was not nearly as old as she imagined. She’d always assumed it might be as old as the Hundred Heroes of Terandria, but they predated almost everything.
The Hundred Heroes had settled Terandria at the dawn of time and were so mythical records of their exact deeds were scarce, but they predated every major event she could find. The Dragonwars and formation of the Shield Kingdoms, the Continent of Glass—huge and major moments took place after those [Heroes] created kingdoms by battling Giants and myths to win humanity a home.
They had settled the land inhabited by mythical monsters and carved out kingdoms for the struggling Humans—and made alliances with the half-Elven kingdom and Dwarf mountain city, which, funnily, predated even them. But Khelt?
Let’s see. Frieke had jotted down a rough timeline, and you skipped Erribathe’s founding, the last known sighting of Elves in their first queen, the first reference to the Witch of Calamity, the Continent of Glass, the Continent of Glass sinking piecemeal, Dragonwars, the Quarass and Shield Kingdoms and Gnoll’s Time of Hiding, Wistram forming, the Long Night, the Stitch-folk’s war for independence, emergence of Selphids, and…aha!
Perhaps it had been long after the start of recorded history and the age of the Hundred Heroes, but you could still argue the world was far more ancient back then, and magic was greater. Unstable—it was always unstable after the fall of a great age, and the Breathless Age of Nekhret had led to a warring, restless time in Chandrar marked by hardship and lots of rogue undead.
It was then, with necromancy still powerful, even if its true era of power had come and gone, that the stage was set. Then, Khelta had walked on Chandrar’s sands and envisioned a nation where the dead might serve and protect the living rather than the other way around. Around twenty-one thousand years ago, Khelt had been formed.
That was ancient. The Quarass might be older, but she was probably the only being on Chandrar who could lay claim to that, unless there was some Dragon still alive. A’ctelios Salash was older, but even the Immortal Tyrant came from a period after Khelt. That was how old the nation was.
“And so you see, Konska, even if Khelt isn’t that old, they have records salvaged from other kingdoms with stories that do reach back several eras! For instance, I found this tale from the Era of Broken Fangs—I’d place it, um, in one of the pre-Long Night dark ages. Not as bad as when the Hundred Heroes existed, but close. Giants and great ‘Beasts’ everywhere. People can hardly exist!”
Konska was trying to ignore her. He had put his head under one wing and was pretending to be asleep as Frieke showed him the book. She doggedly went on.
“Come on, this is great stuff! There were Rocs, you know. Imagine it! You couldn’t live without a Roc swooping down on your cattle and eating them all for a snack or seeing Dragons duelling in the skies! Even the Hundred Kingdoms aren’t doing well. Erribathe is, but it was founded by some actual Elven Queen, and the other Hundred Kingdoms are, uh, lesser in number now. I think they’re down to sixty originals or something at this point.”
Erribathe wasn’t the oldest kingdom in the entire world—though it might be the oldest one still standing. As an [Amateur Historian], the only place better to be than Khelt, in Frieke’s opinion, would be in Erribathe.
But no one ever wrote much about the first Queen of Erribathe. A real Elf? Anyways, Frieke went on as Konska poked his head out to take some fine ashwheat seeds she was tempting him with. He gave her a look as he fluttered his grey-white wings speckled with blue. ‘Alright, you’ve got me as long as I’m eating, but this had better be good.’
“Okay, so this is the Era of Broken Fangs—chaos, terrifying monsters. The kingdoms of Terandria are still beset by ‘Beasts’, and they need to be slain. This is a story about [Hunters], believe it or not! They’re like super Named-rank adventurers who are going around slaying the ‘Beasts’ of each land. The Beast of Fiskren, the Beast of Avel—and one of them, Piortesenzth the Stalker, is called upon to go all the way to Izril! He has to obtain a poison that can slay the undying Beast of Albez. Albez! That’s a place that exists! Apparently, some Gnoll tribe was wiped out, and he was sent for. But he goes to Chandrar first…because he wants poison from the world’s finest maker of it. And, I quote, ‘the woman who walks a hundred lives, Ruler of the Shield Kingdom of Ger, sat upon her throne and demanded a mighty price for the poison that took her sixteen days and nights to brew’. That’s the Quarass! The Quarass!”
Konska stopped pecking at his seeds and gave her a second look. ‘Okay, this is mildly interesting, but how does this matter?’ Everyone knew the Quarass was old.
Frieke knew that; she’d even met the previous Quarass and been let down, but it was one thing to meet the woman or see her, and another to read a history book as ancient as this about her! But Konska didn’t care, that barbarian. He was a very straightforward bird. She pointed, and he flew over and raked someone with his claws, then pooped on their corpse. She glared at him.
“I should have chosen the Balerosian Parrot when I was at that bazaar, you ingrate! She had culture. And she could talk! Ow! Ow, stop it!”
He began pecking at her, and she shielded herself with her book until he and she realized he was actually damaging the precious material. Then both hurriedly stopped fighting because Fetohep might behead her for damaging this tome—even if it was a copy. It had been copied a hundred and two times according to the notations in the book. Frieke went on, sighing.
“…The point is that Khelt has records that go back way beyond it, and all its histories are tens of thousands of years old! They document everything about Khelta beautifully. She doesn’t live long, you know; barely eight hundred years, I think? Which sounds unimpressive, but she was alive the entire time. She never became a Revenant. So it’s her successors who begin to live for millenia. Fetohep’s short-lived compared to some of them. Well, I think magic’s also a bit more powerful back then. Several records indicate they could repair their bodies.”
He could not. And there were no [Necromancers] in Khelt. Frieke made some notes in a journal.
“Mostly, thereafter, Khelt stays to itself. It does not participate in many wars. All the Nagatine Empires? Khelt never fights. Or if they try to invade, Khelt fights back. There’s a hilarious story about how some Dragonfire General invades Khelt because the Lizardfolk are all sweeping across Chandrar, and ten years later they’re in full retreat because so many undead are attacking even they’re getting overwhelmed. But Khelt’s in all the big events. Even the Creler Wars!”
She had a list of some huge world-events with Khelt’s parts in them noted down—and a few events that seemed big that she’d never heard of. Frieke went on as Konska gave her an encouraging squawk, getting invested despite himself.
“Like what? Okay, Creler Wars. King Razzimir. They start living much shorter lives; he only exists…one thousand one hundred years? It says he died of grief and shame because he failed to act for so long. But he builds ‘Razzimir’s Arrows’, the huge [Light Arrows] that King Fetohep can fire, and he unleashes three out of the five Revenants. So Serept’s half-Giants, the Scourgeriders, and Sand at Sea. I think he avoided Hecrelunn and Salui because they weren’t that controllable.”
Having seen both in action, Frieke could understand his wariness. She went on.
“The Revenants joined the push to get rid of Crelers in Chandrar, but even they couldn’t end the war; it took decades to purge Chandrar once the tides shifted! Lots of notes from Razzimir’s journals about how he was holding onto Salui and Hecrelunn in case an Elder Creler or ‘greater’ appeared. He’s quite guilty about not using them, but they never went after Khelt’s capital.”
Isolationism was the name of Khelt. In the same way, she pointed out their role in another pivotal moment of world history.
“Khelt survived their fair share of calamities, you know. The ‘Bloodless Shores’ is a lesser event that took place where some kind of super-Kraken that drank blood terrorized every coastline and killed trade worldwide for nigh on a century before someone killed it. Imagine it, no trade except teleportation. No one could even live forty miles inland of the coasts or it would pull the sea with it and eat you. Mass starvation, kingdoms in jeopardy. This was Queen Emrist’s time, and her Scourgeriders came into existence around now. Er, she kept Khelt intact, but she did a lot of plundering to ‘keep Khelt’s greatness intact’.”
An era when you had to look up and fear carpet-riding Kheltians throwing [Fireballs] and carrying off everything. Terrible, but…also amazing. Something you could imagine, like the tales of Jinn walking the world.
Sometimes, it felt to Frieke like all the amazing moments were in the past. Any age where she was considered a famous Named-rank adventurer surely wasn’t that amazing, right?
Her companion, Konska, saw Frieke glancing down at her scarred hands and paused in preening himself. He knew her thoughts thanks to their bond and pecked her hard, but affectionately, on the arm.
Don’t think of yourself like that. She yelped, but then relented. Frieke finished writing in her journal and took a huge breath.
“There. That’s a basis. Very rough, but I don’t want to, um, commit to a full account of history since I might be wrong. These books are dated, but the dates are always changing because of the eras. So I don’t know. But this—d’you think this would impress her? Historian Satar?”
Again, the Seahawk rolled his eyes in his head. Another feature of Frieke that might have been inbuilt even before Fetohep was her lack of confidence. A feature King Perric appreciated but…Frieke treated Satar Silverfang like some kind of hero. Frieke the Falconer, a Named-rank…
In some ways, it allowed Frieke to integrate well into Khelt. She’d hopped ship from Medain and was loyal to Khelt; she loved it here. No need for money? Amazing vistas? Historical records and admiration for her class?
She was as good as retired. And she had no problem with that. Only the fear that she’d be exiled, but she’d realized once she was in that King Fetohep didn’t expel anyone unless they broke some major law. She was Kheltian, and…and she would be for life. Her descendants would be.
She’d made it. And Frieke had brought no one into Khelt, so she didn’t have Fellbow’s worry about his family, who had all the culture shock of integrating into Khelt. Frieke was…alone.
Oh, she had family of a kind who’d claimed her after she’d become a Gold-rank adventurer, but they hadn’t raised her. She didn’t owe them Khelt. The street urchins and beggars she’d grown up with were her family, and if she could have taken them…
You didn’t live long in those conditions. She’d paid for [Healers] and respite for the last of them, and now she was alone and had come to Khelt as such.
Alone save for Konska, a bird she’d bought by chance at a bazaar, who had become her only companion and person she could rely on. She talked to him, treated him like an equal, and by Named-rank standards, she was actually very healthy because she had one friend she could trust.
Konska, for his part, felt like he’d also gotten lucky with Frieke. Sure, sometimes he had that itch that said he should fly out to sea and start a nest, but he’d have been dead of old age if not for Frieke. When she settled down, he’d find some lovely bird to make eggs with. Though he was really unclear on how he was going to get some eggs going since all the other Seahawks he’d clicked with hadn’t been female, but hey, cross that bridge when you came to it.
The point was, they were lounging in Khelt’s largesse and Frieke could be a silly nerd trying to win the approval of a nineteen year-old Gnoll. He’d been with her from the start, and even if Khelt’s ruler set himself against Frieke, Konska would just peck out Fetohep’s flame-eyes and poop in his eye sockets. He’d been there when Frieke had been forced to kill her father. He’d be there at the end.
In that way—Frieke was like a puddle that had depths. She sat in her rather spacious apartments half-converted into a nest where Konska had torn up all the bedding and made a huge, slightly poo-covered roost for himself, and tried to write a letter to Satar begging the Gnoll to read her attempts at a historical analysis of Khelt. Then someone rapped on her door urgently.
“Adventurer Frieke! Adventurer Frieke! Help!”
Retired or not, Frieke and Konska were lounging one moment, then in action the next. Frieke’s shortsword was drawn, and she had her shoulder to a joist in the wall in a second. The hardest place to stab through if someone was on the other side. Konska was at the window, ready to fly, swivelling his head.
“Mister Mistreq? What is it?”
Frieke thought she recognized another tenant of her ‘apartment’ complex. They were in the big city, which meant they were in what Kheltians called ‘cramped’ quarters. In truth, it was more like a vast mansion of houses; each apartment had multiple rooms and a patio or rooftop space. Dead gods, Frieke had a swimming pool on her roof!
Mistreq was her next-door neighbor, and she flicked a little orb into the air. It froze and hovered; the Seeing Eye let her glance out the top of her door and see the man. Konska leapt out of the window and dove before gaining altitude rapidly.
No threats so far—he’d circle and be her eyes in the sky. Frieke heard a muffled sob.
“Miss Frieke, you must help! It’s a b—b—no one can do anything!”
“A what? A Blood Slime? Bagrhaven?”
What kind of threats appeared in a capital city? Even Koirezune—
“A bug! A huge one!”
Mistreq wailed. Konska nearly slammed into the side of the apartments. Frieke stopped reaching for an enchanted arrow. Her head slowly rose.
“A what.”
 
——
 
It was a big bug. Not your standard roach, but a weird bug with two ‘heads’, which wiggled as the multifaceted eyes bulging from each ‘head’ glittered in a gross way. It had bright red wings, but the bug also had a tan underbelly that looked rather maggot-like.
So, yeah. Gross. Frieke made a face as it crawled up the destroyed room’s wall.
Not that it had destroyed the room, you understand. Or the other three. But the cowering residents of the apartment had hurled everything they had at it, trying to kill the bug, and the alarmed insect had fluttered out of one apartment after terrorizing a screaming family and into Mister Mistreq’s.
He was taking cover behind an overturned couch of hand-patterned silk as Konska and Frieke exchanged glances.
“It’s horrible! Be careful, Adventurer Frieke!”
“Er…I will. Definitely. How’d it get in? The window?”
“Yes!”
“Which you left open.”
“I always leave them open! This has never happened!”
What, never? Not once? Frieke was confused, but she let go of the squirming bug and tossed it. Konska snapped his beak closed and crunched the bug up. He shrugged his wings at her.
Tastes like shit. She waited for it to be poison or something, but he just swallowed after a moment. Frieke coughed.
“I’ve, uh, dealt with the bug.”
“Oh, thank His Majesty! You really are brave as can be, Frieke!”
The man had tears in his eyes when he rose. Frieke and Konska traded glances, but he was actually, legitimately serious. Mistreq shook Frieke’s hand repeatedly.
“First, you save young Altet when he was so badly hurt, now this! We’re all so much safer for you around! And you’re so exotic! So worldly!”
“Altet broke his leg.”
“I know! It was so dreadful! We were all screaming for His Majesty’s skeletons, but they were slow to arrive, and you came by and dealt with it! First that, now this. This has been such a distressing month. My entire year might be unsettled!”
It was the first month of the year. Frieke just kept staring as the man went on.
“I heard rumors about bugs appearing in houses, but you know, you never think it might be you. I feel changed. Older.”
Konska spat a leg onto the man’s floor. Frieke covertly stepped on it to avoid the fellow fainting, then smiled.
“I, uh, I’m happy to help. Truly.”
She had to leave before he kept praising her and gifting her vouchers for his favorite restaurants. This was unreal, but despite Konska’s gagging, Frieke whispered.
“Konska, be nice. If this is the worst we ever have to deal with…”
He nodded. But seriously? A bug?
Frieke smirked herself. But this was Khelt. Now that she thought about it, mosquitos didn’t have as much presence in Chandrar as other nations. It could get bad on the coasts…but she was used to rats, beetles, any kind of pests. Even ants. She hadn’t had a mosquito bite or seen any insect in all Khelt her entire time here, only this one, today.
There were no insects in Khelt. Or at least, by her standards none. The streets were clean.
 
——
 
The streets were…beautiful. Each one a masterpiece of art. Frieke stared down at the glass street that her apartment exited onto. This particular street was known because when you walked on the clear glass, you were walking over a literal river. With fish inside, streaming down the pathways and staring up at the people who walked on the sky of their world.
A beautiful river made into a street just because it was pretty to look at. A fortune in glass and water. And magic, Frieke just knew. Cooling spells so that the fish didn’t broil with the light hitting them and ambient temperatures. Probably anti-glare spells so they didn’t burn in the sun. Insanity.
Water was a premium in any Chandrarian nation, but Khelt had so many gemstones that could produce water that it had created vast reservoirs. This one allowed fish to swim below the street. When she turned the corner, each flagstone was a piece of art from a different artist, a work of over two thousand years in the making.
And people walked about and didn’t even glance down because this was their home. To Frieke, it was the most glorious work of art she had ever seen. To them, it was the ground.
Oh, and lest you think this was just artistic excellence, the street was flat. It was so damn flat, in fact, that Frieke felt like she had sea-legs. There were no bumps, unlevelled road, or anything else to trip or stumble on. Someone had taken a level to the ground and ensured it was the most pristine walking experience in your life.
It was a level of wealth that Medain’s richest citizens could not aspire to. It was a city of beauty, and if it was just this, Frieke, as a girl who’d grown up in Medain’s dregs, might hate it and King Fetohep. But…she glanced sideways and remembered a friend she’d had as a kid.
Mirq, he’d been called. One-legged, hopping around on a crutch, born that way rather than a casualty of Medain’s mines or any other hard industry. Hop, hop, always with a new scheme or plan to get ahead.
Too slow. Too slow to run when trouble came. Just one of the many faces a Named-rank adventurer remembered, even if he had come and gone before she had even been Bronze-rank. Little Mirq…whose sin was being born missing a leg.
He did not exist in Khelt. Or to be more precise, he did exist! She saw a girl who was missing two legs, whether by birth or accident, who could say? But she was leading a pack of children ahead, running faster than the others.
Two Golem-made prostheses were allowing her to sprint like the wind. She was kicking a football ahead of them, and they were shouting.
“No fair! No fair! Turn your legs down, Khalatta!”
Past Frieke, the girl ran, eyes alight with joy, as if she had worn those legs forever. And she probably had, but they were legs custom-fitted to her. She’d have to change them as she grew older, and Frieke had no doubts she would get those prostheses. How would King Fetohep allow anything less? He had probably had someone commission these legs from House Terland.
Luxury beyond imagination combined with the compassion of a monarch beyond all limits. Be it so selfish, Frieke would hope this kingdom endured so long as she resided in it.
“I could actually see myself having kids here or something, Konska. I wouldn’t worry about them or—it’s so safe. No one’s going to cut our throats here.”
The Seahawk nodded solemnly as the girl ran on, then nudged Frieke with a wing. She scowled at him.
“Don’t ask who! I’m just saying, I could have a kid—I’ll find someone. People like me.”
He smirked at her like any other Named-ranker. That old refrain of adventurers. ‘I’ll find someone once I retire. I can do it. I’m just busy now. It’s not that I’m a sociopath with the personality of a blood-hungry lemon, it’s that I’m busy.’
In fairness, Frieke thought she could pull off a relationship with some nice…person. Not many Dullahans in Chandrar, but in fairness, she wasn’t very Dullahan. She’d practically been raised Human; no cultural background other than being a streetrat of Medain. She’d tried to go to Baleros and visit her ancestral roots, but everyone had given her looks like she was some kind of idiot savage…
“I could find a nice…meek fellow in Khelt. And squash all the bugs for him.”
Konska puked some of the bug up, and one of the passersby gave him such a horrified gaze that Frieke hurried him on.
“Behave, would you? Let’s get to the Mage’s Guild!”
 
——
 
Here was the thing. The one downside of Khelt was that in a city where no one had to work, finding someone to do a job for you could be, uh, hard.
Skeletons took care of all the menial tasks. Sweeping, hauling, even cooking and cleaning. And Kheltians loved the arts, so plenty of people could make food, pottery, what have you. But that meant there was a sector of skilled work that no one wanted to do.
Mages to send [Messages]? Boring as anything. Khelt encouraged them to work by offering incentives. Little vouchers that were ‘currency’ here, or luxuries in exchange for effort, but the end result was still lackadaisical effort.
For instance, the way the [Mage] on duty at the Mage’s Guild coped with all the effort of sending [Messages] was by being the most gossipy person ever.
“Hello, Adventurer Frieke? Who are we sending to?”
He leaned over the counter and read her missive as she handed it to him. Zero confidentiality here; if you sent something, he was going to read and comment on it.
“A missive to Satar Silverfang, Magus Veirde. Could you oblige me?”
“Of course! For a Named-rank adventurer, obviously! If she sends you anything back, I’ll log it for your next visit. If she sends you anything interesting, I’ll make sure you get the message! Via a Street Runner—these skeletons are so unreliable. Now, where’s Vhidye? Vhidye, your penpal in Pallass has so much amazing gossip! She actually saw the white Gnoll girl, Mrsha!”
Every head snapped around as the delighted [Mage] shouted at someone else. Frieke sighed.
In Medain, you’d be dead in a day for all the things you say, Veirde. But here it was power and social capital, so she just smiled at Veirde and resolved never to trust him with anything she needed confidential.
She could send to another Mage’s Guild in Germina or even Reim if she needed to. She had gold, connections. Frankly, if she wanted more, she could pick up any number of objects Kheltians “sold” or gifted each other and sell it for hundreds of gold coins in another city.
After that? Frieke and Konska had lunch. Just like every day in the city, they were spoiled for choice.
 
——
 
“Adventurer Frieke! One meal if you tell a story?”
“Hello, Adventurer! If you teach us how to fire a bow, we’ll serve you!”
Even now, Frieke ate where she wanted. Of course she ate for free; gold was meaningless to most citizens of Khelt. Some liked it, but they bartered for what they wanted, and even after her fame had worn off, Frieke had a valuable currency.
Stories. Her level. She could parlay a harrowing tale of life-or-death into a meal at any ‘top’ restaurant, another reason why she liked Khelt. She bypassed the social order. So, after some whispering, they ended up sitting at an open-air restaurant where huge, ginormous crabs were being cracked open and seasoned by a [Chef].
“I recently levelled up to Level 30. As a reward, His Majesty allowed me to choose a gift—those who hit Level 30 are rewarded, so I asked for the largest crab species he could find. These are ‘Hollowstone Deceivers’, which I breed. They can grow even larger, but they only taste delicious when young.”
Frieke and Konska licked their lips and beak as the crab was opened, and they began to devour the rather delicious meat inside. They savored their bites, adding butter and more condiments to flavor the crab just right, and they were so engrossed in their meal, they didn’t notice the young woman trying to ‘buy’ a seat until they heard her arguing.
“I’d like a seat, even a side-one. Just give me some crab, please?”
“I don’t know…Potter, is it? I’m not in the mood for some pots.”
The [Chef] was drumming his fingers critically on a podium where he admitted guests to his very small restaurant. He was a startup; he might well get bored and switch his entire theme, so he was picky unlike [Chefs] who did this all the time. And the young woman with an exasperated expression on her face was neither beautiful nor socially famous enough to gain entry.
But she really wanted some crab. Frieke got a nudge from Konska and recognized the woman vaguely.
Wasn’t that…Pewerthe? She was important in some way, and Frieke tuned into the conversation out of pure instinct. The young woman was trying to be polite.
“I’d just like a crab, Chef. The smallest will do.”
“Yes, but…for free?”
“Everything’s free, Chef. If it helps, I’ve attended to His Majesty today.”
That normally got you entry, but the snooty [Chef of the Refined Palate] just drummed his fingers on the podium again.
“I hear you do that a lot. Why do you have His Majesty’s favor? I’ve seen your pots. There are better, you know.”
Pewerthe gave him an exasperated smile.
“Sometimes, I make pots just to make a pot, Chef. Beauty is not my talent.”
“Oh, evidently. I simply mean to elucidate that you have little to offer His Majesty, and I, personally, would hate to think you waste his time when one other could do it better. I have never been called to the palace as a day-servant, you know, but I imagine I would impress him when I am. With my sterling conduct, if nothing else!”
Pewerthe’s smile grew more strained.
“I am not King Fetohep of Khelt, so I cannot know what he sees in me. But as I have been helpful, a crab?”
“I don’t know. I’m not feeling your presence meshing with my guests.”
The [Chef] tilted his head back and forth, and Pewerthe sighed.
“Fine. I’ll go to the palace and ask for crab. The one time I want seafood…”
She was about to stomp off when the [Chef] grew more incensed.
“You’d trouble His Majesty for food? How dare you!”
He strode off his podium and began poking her in the shoulder. Pewerthe’s shoulders hunched.
“Listen, Chef. I realize you are acting in your role as is perfectly fit and normal for any citizen of Khelt, but I caution you with due…probity.”
Frieke had to actually look that word up with a personal dictionary she’d bought. Everyone in Khelt had too much education. Actually, Pewerthe seemed like she was also annoyed by the elevated use of diction. She turned.
“Poke me again and I will slap that hand of yours.”
A gasp from the [Chef], who recoiled and glanced at the other guests; they turned as if Pewerthe had drawn a knife.
“Did you hear that? I knew you were a savage woman, but the rumors didn’t do it credit!”
Pewerthe rolled her eyes.
“Yes, the dreaded [Potter] who slaps hands.”
She said it so ironically that Frieke grinned until she realized everyone else was gasping in horror. Then she realized Pewerthe’s nose was crooked.
Seems broken to me. Konska shot Frieke a side-eye. Few citizens of Khelt would have any kind of damage. The [Chef]’s nostrils flared so wide Frieke wagered she could stick that evil bug from this morning up there.
“Begone, you dastardly…disruptor! If you annoy His Majesty in any way or gainsay his free time, I shall ensure you never eat in this city again! I—”
Pewerthe was already striding away when Frieke got up from her chair, grabbed the half of the crab she’d really been unable to finish even with Konska, and called out.
“Miss Pewerthe, if you’d like some crab—Konska’s only pecked a bit of mine.”
Another gasp. The [Chef] turned and clutched at his heart as if stabbed from behind. He gave Frieke a look of betrayal as Pewerthe turned and smiled, gratified. Konska fluttered over and pecked the man on the forehead.
He screamed.
 
——
 
It took twenty minutes for the ‘Watch’, who were more like civil servants whose job it was to resolve squabbles and fights, to finish interviewing Frieke and soothe the screaming man—after he’d woken up.
Frieke’s brush with the law was enough time for Pewerthe to eat some of the crab on the side of the street, like a savage to judge by the horrified looks of the pedestrians. She didn’t care, and when Frieke ambled over, Pewerthe glanced up.
“I hope I haven’t troubled you unduly, Adventurer. I was just hungry and…sometimes, it wears upon me.”
She wore an expression that suggested she felt like a Seahawk pecking you so lightly he didn’t draw blood was a ridiculous thing, and Frieke squatted down next to her, relieved to talk to someone normal. Fellbow and she got together to commiserate sometimes, and she nodded.
“They just scolded me for a few minutes. Honestly, the fellow was obnoxious.”
Pewerthe wore a guilty smile.
“His Majesty will lecture me once he hears of this. The [Chef] was within his rights entirely to refuse me service. I just…really like crab, and it has been a wearing day.”
“In Koirezune?”
Frieke meant it as a joke, but Pewerthe wiped her mouth on her arm and nodded. Her gaze, when it turned to Frieke, was direct.
“For very few of Khelt’s own, yes, there can be bad days. Oh, and here’s another day-ruiner. Look. Dead gods.”
She pointed down, and a fly was buzzing around her crab. Pewerthe’s voice was flat.
“I may never eat food again. I may vomit. Such an insect cloys at my mind. Oh, Eternal Khelt!”
Konska snapped the fly up, and Frieke eyed Pewerthe. The [Potter] sighed.
“More flies.”
“They don’t…bother you?”
“I may have lived here years, but I can still swat one if it lands on my food, not toss out an entire meal over it, Adventurer Frieke. You will be happy to know that you never get to that point.”
That had been a legitimate concern of Frieke and Konska, and they sighed in relief. Pewerthe shook her head.
“Some things of Khelt I accept as citizens living in safety. But that?”
“Oh, so you lived outside of Khelt? If it is personal, I shouldn’t like to pry…”
Another nod. Pewerthe brushed at her hair.
“I am rather infamous for it. It is no bother. I am Pewerthe the Exile. Whose family left Khelt, and who were admitted back by the grace of His Majesty. It was barely nine years, in truth. I was just young enough to adapt to living outside. My family…less so. My father was a skilled [Mage] who grew fascinated with the outside and left, then realized ‘out’ was less pleasant than he dreamed. My mother? Well, both of them and my older brother were traumatized by leaving Eternal Khelt. They begged for re-entry after the second year, then every year hence.”
That intrigued Frieke, so as Pewerthe stood, they walked back towards Pewerthe’s house, chatting.
“I was informed one did not re-enter Khelt lightly. What changed?”
“They were captured by [Bandits]. We all were; we’d been begging on the border of Khelt for His Majesty’s largesse. They held my family for a week. Me for six months. His Majesty sent his undead to slaughter the [Bandits] when the tale finally reached him, and upon hearing my story, he granted us all citizenship.”
One week versus six months? Frieke’s mind jumped to one conclusion, and she studied Pewerthe.
“Did the [Bandits]…?”
She didn’t know how to broach the subject, but Pewerthe smiled at her tiredly.
“No. They might have, or at least, my mother, because I inherited less of her looks, but I convinced them to let her go. The wrath of Khelt and all that. They made me cook and clean, and by the time His Majesty sent the undead, they’d fallen to infighting and were easy pickings. My tale impressed King Fetohep enough that he gave us all citizenship again. It was just a local bandit group in Ger.”
In Germina, the Shield Kingdom? The Quarass didn’t suffer bandits lightly. Even if the old one had been inept…Frieke thought that story sounded familiar, actually, but she just smiled.
“That’s an incredible tale, Potter Pewerthe. And your family’s fine? I imagine they loved returning to Khelt.”
Pewerthe paused, then softly laughed.
“What? Oh, yes. They live further inland and swear they’ll never even go near the border. I’m now the daring [Potter] who’s too violent and forgets Khelt’s graces.”
That checked out. But it endeared her to Frieke, who said so.
“Well, for one who knows the lands outside of Khelt, you are very refreshing. If you ever need someone to chat to or win entry to restaurants, Konska and I are delighted to talk to someone.”
“Thank you, Adventurer Frieke. Perhaps I will take you up on that. His Majesty was hoping you had settled into Khelt well.”
Pewerthe smiled and nodded, reinforcing Frieke’s image that Pewerthe was worth cultivating as a friend. Konska clearly agreed because he hopped over and let Pewerthe pet him. They liked Pewerthe of course, but it was always good to cozy up to people like this.
Pewerthe had classes to teach, and they parted ways after this. Frieke ambled around the city, of a mind to maybe take classes herself in something or other. Like that, another halcyon day passed in Khelt save for two events.
The first was that Frieke’s worries about getting bored of all this largesse and gaining a paunch were interrupted by an excited message from the Mage’s Guild. She raced back to gain a missive (already read and annotated with his commentary by the nosy magus) from no less than Satar Silverfang!
It not only expressed admiration for Frieke’s historical research, but asked if she’d also paint a picture of Khelt in the modern day. The Gnolls of Izril owed Khelt a debt of gratitude, and it would be an honor to instill their history and current events into a library in the Great Plains!
Frieke suddenly had work! She rushed around obtaining journals and trying to figure out how to set down both history and current events in Khelt for a record for Satar—apparently, the Gnoll was asking for other accounts from other cities.
The second thing was this: on her errands rushing about the city, asking excited people who wanted to be part of this moment in history to give testimony and opinions, Frieke stopped by the Adventurer’s Guild.
It was a joke of a place where Bronze-rankers existed. They had one Silver-rank team; there weren’t enough monsters to hunt anywhere. But it did have all the up-to-date records and information because of course it did.
After patiently teaching all the people from staff to adventurers some swordplay for half-an-hour, Frieke got access to the guild records. Being a history buff helped for research and work. Frieke muttered to herself as Konska peered at the book—he could read.
“Bandits in Germina. Bandits in Germina…aha! I knew I remembered them. Hold on.”
She blinked at the page.
“Those weren’t any [Bandits]. That—did Pewerthe get captured by the Sands of Cuzale? They held up Djinni-guarded caravans in Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
That was not a regular [Bandit] group. Frieke distinctly remembered them; there had been bounties posted for their apprehension, and she’d taken one glance at them and decided against. Word on the streets was that they had Level 30+ regulars and a Level 34 [Robber Baron]!
Pewerthe had downplayed the events. But her name was so famous that even the ‘Guildmaster’ of the Adventurer’s Guild knew her and repeated her story more or less verbatim to Frieke. That wasn’t the shocking thing. Even if they’d been a dangerous gang, Pewerthe’s story checked out, but Frieke kept reading, and several details made her stop and think.
“The Sands of Cuzale were eliminated by a Kheltian force sent by His Majesty of Khelt including local adventurers…but all but a tenth of the [Bandits] were dead when they were found. Infighting. And there were no Kheltian survivors aside from one girl. Other nation’s victims were repatriated…one survivor of Khelt?”
Hadn’t Pewerthe said her family was living safe and sound inland of Khelt? Frieke had to ask, but the Adventurer’s Guild had no records. Still, it was easy. All she had to do was ask Magus Veirde.
“Pewerthe the Potter’s family? Let me just check…you know I met her once? Dreadful, though, she never asked for [Messages] through me. She had so many issues with me taking looks at people’s [Messages], as if everyone doesn’t read them, and apparently she got a Scroll of Messages for her own personal use! The nerve! That’s expensive even here! Her parents? Yes, yes, we all know the…huh.”
The [Magus] sorted through his lists of people and places and stopped. Then he frowned.
“Mother, father, brother. The Sincleis family…”
“Could I send a message?”
Veirde glanced up.
“Ah, no. Sadly, they have entered Khelt’s eternal service.”
“Oh. Oh, I see. Was it sudden?”
“No…the date says…it must be a mistake. Otherwise, they’d have passed years ago. Before Pewerthe even came back to Khelt. Well, I’m sure it’s a mistake.”
Veirde laughed, waving the moment off, and Frieke schooled her face to neutrality. Well then. That told her something, but what of it? A woman was allowed to lie. Frieke did it all the time. But it did suggest that Pewerthe was a bit harder than even Frieke had given her credit for. Perhaps that was why she had Fetohep of Khelt’s interest. At any rate, Frieke was as happy as could be.
Then she began documenting Khelt as it was now. She realized…there were a few issues.
 
——
 
Of all the paradises in the world—and there were so few—Khelt was arguably the…hardest to acclimate to. Which was something that Alked Fellbow hadn’t predicted nor known, and in hindsight, it made him feel like a Bronze-rank fool.
He’d leapt at King Fetohep’s offer and spent all his caution trying to find out whether it was genuine or a way to get him to go on some Death Zone mission, and not on Khelt itself. It wasn’t a huge issue, but it made him feel like he was getting soft, and he could not become soft.
Even if Khelt was a paradise, Alked personally refused to relinquish the levels and talents he had worked himself unto death to acquire. And he knew it was not…safe. The Winter Solstice had proven that.
Even paradise would be threatened by what was coming, but Alked did not feel tricked by King Fetohep. Having gained a measure of the Revenant, Alked felt sure his citizenship had been truly offered without hidden strings attached. For that one reason, King Fetohep had Alked’s loyalty.
It may seem a small thing to other adventurers or his glorious homeland of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the vast empire beyond compare in so many ways. But Alked had never met a monarch who engendered a sense of loyalty in him that had lasted longer than a week. A boy had once knelt before one of the former rulers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and stared in awe at a regal Stitch-man made of fabulous thread and thought it fitting that one should rule another. Dreamed of changing his cloth.
A man of Hemp knew his cloth would never, could never change in the eyes of the Court of Silks. And he placed more faith in an undead Revenant than his own people.
Oh, but it was hard to emigrate to Khelt. Fetohep was not to be blamed in many senses; he didn’t know.
Consider paradise. Alked had been doing a bit of research of late. He’d kept bumping into Frieke in the libraries and assumed she was doing her own information-gathering. He had his eye on her, but she actually seemed to be into books. Alked wasn’t that scholarly; he enjoyed adventure tales more than dusty histories. He was a man who used knowledge in pursuit of his goals, so he had quickly dropped books and reached out via contacts. Sent a few gifts, gone out of Khelt and bought some drinks. Gotten some expensive [Communication] spells and learned the truth.
There were five official paradises in this world. Lots of places that could qualify for certain residents or had been at one point or other—Ailendamus was said to have a high standard of living, for instance. But paradise meant you didn’t have to work at all. It didn’t just mean safe. It meant beyond safe. Bliss.
They were: Samal, the Silent Dome of Baleros, the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste, the House of Minos, and Eternal Khelt. And of the five, two weren’t even full nations.
The Silent Dome of Baleros was a paradise, yes, as was the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste, but if you knew anything about the two locations (and Alked had needed to do his research on both), you quickly realized they were more like…resorts.
Oh, you could live there forever, and some people did. But both were clearly gated by wealth and power; the Five Families—or rather, House Wellfar—owned Heiste and only about a dozen people had permanent residency. That had changed over the years, so was it really a paradise…?
Well, you could survive there forever. Magic and Golems took care of every conceivable need, so despite the low population, paradise it was called. The Silent Dome was bigger; it was some kind of heat-shielded dome in the wintery north of Baleros. Magically protected from any outside influence.
Apparently, it had once been made to deflect Dragon assaults. A kind of safe-haven that became another ultra-rich hideaway. It was protected by one of the Four Great companies, and everything inside the dome was brought to you. In a sense, the Silent Dome was the least self-sufficient; a Great Company had to fund and pamper those inside since it didn’t have its own agriculture or means of production.
“Doubtless a single [Thief] could rob everyone inside blind.”
Alked had grunted sourly when a Dullahan foreign adventurer had told him about it. The other Dullahan—who, unlike Frieke, was a native of Baleros—had snorted mildly.
“They did do that, Fellbow. The Lightning Thief ran the entire place. Stole everything. It’s in one of his books. The Iron Vanguard still holds a grudge over it. I thought you liked your adventure books?”
“I like books that don’t sound like fairytales. The Lightning Thief kills no one. He always gets out by the skin of his teeth; there’s no blood or real drama aside from the lady of the hour he sleeps with.”
“Ah, but it’s a real story. Real enough that my mother swears he stole a kiss from her.”
The Stitch-man snorted as they had a drink in a dust-ridden pub in Germina, bordering Khelt. It was so much…realer to him than Khelt. He had to get outside of the kingdom; the sight of dust, the smell of a bit of piss, and a drink that he could nurse without thinking it was the greatest thing he’d ever tasted grounded him.
The Dullahan, whose name was Blithe, sipped from the bowl his head was resting in front of and shot Alked a side-eye. His main body was throwing darts at a board on the other side of the room. Germina loved throwing games. It came of being a famous assassin-nation, Alked supposed.
He might have worried about someone trying to steal his coinpouch or slit his throat for his gear, but the new Quarass was apparently very thorough. It showed; the last time he’d been through, crime had been high for all they had loved the Quarass. This time? People seemed healthier, but they watched him constantly with those polite smiles.
Alked knew cultures. Just not Khelt’s. It was alien. He glanced at Blithe.
“Does your mother have any real facts about the Lightning Thief, then? How many people really died?”
“She claims none by his hand.”
“Hah.”
“I mean it, Fellbow. He was a [Thief], not some killer. He could steal the glimmer out of your eyes. Steal an army’s weapons rather than let them fight. Which he did—”
“Yeah, yeah. I know. The War of Fists.”
Blithe gulped down more of the piss-beer.
“What do you read, if not the Lightning Thief?”
“Take a look.”
So saying, Alked placed a book carefully on the counter and winced as he saw the beautiful cover instantly stick to some not-quite-dried beer. Blithe had to put his head back on his shoulders to stare, and so did the [Bartender] and everyone else.
A book from Khelt was unreal. It looked like what people thought adventurer’s loot was. Something sparkling, too-bright, pristine, because it was.
Four gemstones set into each corner of the golden metal inlays on the book. Each one was the eye of a Dragon, who roared across the cover, the work of some master engraver, and the pages were brushed with gold—real gold—and the paper was so bright that Alked saw stains from the finger-grease where he touched the book.
“Damn me, Fellbow. Treat it more carefully!”
“Don’t bother. It goes through a special artifact at the library, Blithe. It automatically restores everything about the book. Like casting both a [Repair] spell and [Cleanse], but higher-tier. This is Tales of Adventure and Woe, Issue 10,000.”
Blithe blinked.
“Only that? Wait, issue…?”
“Yep. Special edition. It’s about Dragons. Dragonlords. Their adventures. Apparently, some Dragons decided to write a book about their exploits, and they published it as the ten thousandth edition.”
It was a fat book and, Alked had to admit, very well written. Someone had worked hard on it, and Blithe’s eyes grew round.
“I had no notion. How many editions of the Tales series does Khelt’s library have?”
“Literally thousands.”
It’d fill at least a decade of Alked’s life, he reasoned. He smiled, but Blithe’s expression of envy and disbelief…the Dullahan leaned over as he delicately inspected the book.
“What’s Khelt like, Fellbow? And why all these questions about other paradises? If you say you’ve got buyer’s remorse, I may have to stab you.”
Alked grunted. He sat back on the stool which hurt his ass, despite it being woven of hemp, and he knew he seemed somewhat…rough. Crude. Some might even say unfinished, in a sense; his nose was blocky, his cheeks were coarse—both from weather and his very cloth—and his skin had a thick, darker quality to it, beyond even what a tan or birth could give.
He was Hemp. His cloth came from the fur and manes of monsters he’d hunted. It was hard to process, so he looked even less-refined than others of his cloth, but the nature of thicker-threaded Stitch-folk was to look like this. They were tough, resilient, but considered thick of mind and inferior by other Stitch-folk.
His entire life, Alked had been treated like he was half as intelligent as anyone of Cotton or Silk. There had been discussion for two years on awarding him Gold-rank status, let alone Named-rank, because it was unseemly for a Hemp to surpass the other cloths. He had not liked it, of course, but thought it the way of things until he’d started leaving Nerrhavia’s Fallen and seeing other nations, where a Hemp man was treated like a Silk Stitch-folk by many: just another species.
Not that Alked was a revolutionary. That got you killed. Of course, he’d done research there too. Attended a few meetings, but he doubted if the Burnt Strings remembered him. Then again, with that disastrous war in Pomle he’d gotten out of…perhaps they were gaining momentum.
That just meant more raids, infiltrators, crackdowns—they’d told him the hour when they changed all threads was coming when he was fourteen. It was always coming, to hear them say it, but right now Nerrhavia’s Fallen…
No, no. Alked wrenched his mind away from the thoughts of home. He was Khelt’s champion now, and it needed protecting. But the first step was to want to safeguard this nation, so he spoke candidly to Blithe.
“It’s hard, Blithe.”
“Yank my other leg off. You smell like a rose, your clothing nearly got both of us mugged on the way in, and you can take books like these out from some amazing library? How’s it hard?”
The Dullahan gave Fellbow an outraged look, but they had a past friendship; Dullahans and Stitch-folk had the ability to detach limbs and connected on that point, unlike other species. Alked drummed his fingers on the counter.
“I mean it. Don’t get me wrong, everything is the best I’ve had in my life. The food, the art—the streets! Blithe, I feel like a [King] every second, and my family tiptoes around the mansion we were given, too afraid to touch anything! No one accepts any coins, the streets are free of dust or insects, and if you so much as sneeze wrong, the best [Healers] will see you in a moment.”
Everyone in the bar listened with envy as Alked spoke, but this was what everyone knew of Eternal Khelt. The Stitch-man wet his tongue with the foul alcohol, then took a breath.
“Before you shout, Blithe…you grew up like I did. Poor.”
“I wasn’t a Hemp living in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but sure. They only kicked my teeth in for not having any money instead of just existing.”
A twisted smile from both men, and they clinked mugs. Alked downed his cup, motioned with two fingers for another, and spoke.
“Then tell me, Blithe. How d’you think it feels to speak every day to men and women who’ve never even done their own laundry? My neighbors came out, appalled, when they saw me hanging up linens to dry. Told me to get skeletons or, better yet, a charm to do it. They said it was beneath me. I was at a bar in Khelt’s capital, fine as could be. Enjoying myself, even the company, playing darts with a fellow who could throw as well as I. Then he stopped just as we were heating up. Guess why?”
Blithe frowned, mouthing.
“…Because you were Hemp? No, damn. I don’t know.”
“Not Hemp. He couldn’t care less; it was because his fingers were chafing. He’d thrown a dart wrong and it hurt his flesh. He’d never taken so much as a bruise in his life, you see.”
This time, the Dullahan sucked in his lips before grimacing.
“Ah, makes you want to rob the entire place blind and piss on their doorsteps. Like living with a bunch of nobles?”
“Exactly like that.”
The richness of Khelt could indeed delight and awe you, but like fat on the tongue, it could become rancid until you wanted to puke from the excess, the wealth. And the worst part was that Kheltians didn’t even understand how rich they were. They complained of ordinary woes and sounded so privileged…
“Khelt’s the worst for it. Samal and the House of Minos are better, to hear it said. Samal because one can visit and because the keys provide enough incentive that you have something to work on, and the House of Minos points you towards a task, a calling. Whereas Khelt…”
“…Doesn’t admit even a hundred people in a decade. Ah, so the man who has it all suffers a bit. Well, that makes me feel better. Think you’ll still adventure to stay sane?”
Blithe knocked back his drink, slightly amused and satisfied, and Alked shrugged moodily.
“I think I will if only to keep sharp. But I want to love Khelt, Blithe. There’s nowhere I’d rather be.”
On paper, Khelt had it all. His family would never be conscripted or killed for being Hemp. They were safe, he was safe. He just had to love the nation. It was hard. It was damn hard.
They did not hate him. They were, in fact, in awe of his rank, his deeds. They admired him, but he could not help but feel some contempt for Kheltians. Like fat roaches living as one man, King Fetohep, took upon himself the duties of a nation, and Fetohep was no perfect man. But Alked had no respect for Kheltians. Some respect for Frieke and certainly for Pewerthe, the heir apparent, but two among a nation of countless people who would drive him mad.
He had to rectify this. Along with securing Khelt’s safety, of course, but one went with the other. Knowing his problem now, Alked decided that he had best be his own introduction to Khelt.
 
——
 
The issue was that there was no tour guide, no one to acclimatize new citizens to Khelt. No one to be both reassurance and guide, the hype man and gentle greeter.
A Baron Regalius for lack of a better word. Alked had watched the Baron doing a tour of Ailendamus for some promotional video the Kingdom of Glass and Glory put out.
“Greetings, citizens of Ailendamus! You who see me now are honored citizens of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory! I salute you!”
The man, with all his impeccable dress and puffed-out chest, was grand. A [Baron], a popinjay, but one who took a bow, an unheard of thing, and set the tone. He swept his arms out as his wife joined him and introduced his silly naked cats before showing his audience a guided tour of Ailendamus.
“In every city in Ailendamus, you may find changes you are unused to depending on your home nations. For instance, the water? Pumped via these magical fixtures on wells. Free of charge, and drinkable! No well in Ailendamus with such a fixture is unpotable water. And, may I just add, that if you find any hint of sickness or grime, you should inform your local official, who will take the matter seriously. Public threats shall always be dealt with. Thus, if you are sick, you are encouraged to go to a [Healer], who shall not charge you, regardless of the ailment. Sickness is a menace that threatens all citizens…”
It was a splendid advertisement. It made you want to join Ailendamus for all the things any citizen got for free. Not once did Regalius point out another city lacked these things or afforded you less rights; it was purely implicit by comparison.
By contrast, Fetohep had directed one of his servants to give Alked and his family each a vast house after asking him where he wanted to live, sent a two-thousand year-old wine bottle to Alked along with a sheaf of magical arrows as further gifts along with his Relic-class bow, and the next day, Alked had tried to pay at a restaurant with gold and the staff had laughed at him.
Utter confusion, and he was handling it well. Alked broached the subject with Fetohep himself, actually. He had a twice-weekly meeting with the King of Khelt for security, and Fetohep’s golden eye-flames focused on the recording in silence.
“This…is not an issue I had foreseen. Few join Khelt in any year, and I have often taken it upon myself to ensure their comfort personally for years. This pressing time has stolen my focus. Fellbow, this issue must be rectified. Servants—have volunteers prepare a suitable ‘entry video’ to be shown to new citizens and training begun for the position amongst officials. Let us say…five per each city.”
Say this about Fetohep, he could admit when something was lacking, but his response was immediate and even overblown. Like this, Fellbow realized he had accidentally created at least a hundred positions in government and bit his tongue on a protest. It wasn’t like Kheltians had anything else to do, and the cost? What cost?
Fetohep’s servants scrambled to do this as Fetohep returned his attention to the scrying orb.
“We should not be behind Ailendamus in any conceivable way. Hmm. This troubles me, Fellbow. Adventurer Frieke seems well, but then, do the People of Zair feel this same ostracization you do?”
The Stitch-man coughed into one fist, shifting his feet uncomfortably.
“I wasn’t uncomfortable, Your Majesty. I merely…”
Fetohep glanced at him, and Alked ducked his head. The King of Khelt raised a finger.
“You are an adaptable man, Fellbow. Your family? Ah, yes. It will take time to perfect such methods. I wish that I had one recently inducted to Khelt…but most went to the north. The Gnolls!”
He had admitted three tribes to his kingdom. Fetohep’s head swivelled again.
“They must surely feel this disconnect even greater than you. Fellbow, if I task you with the monitoring of their conditions? You need not resolve the issues, merely report.”
“I could do that, Your Majesty. But what of the other concerns of Khelt?”
This had meant to be light conversation, but Fetohep was devoting a lot of time to it. Alked, personally, felt like Khelt’s other issues were important, but Fetohep was insistent, so he promised. Only then did the Revenant turn to the matters of state.
“For now, the Jaws of Zeikhal are inactive, Fellbow. The one who slew George…destroyed by the King of Destruction, and he believes it was the work of—that woman. Not Khelt. I am inclined to agree, but four more hold position. On Khelt’s borders, Medain’s, the Claiven Earth’s, and outside of A’ctelios Salash. Along with the corpse of the great Ash Giant, Zirconia.”
He tapped a map, and Fellbow felt a chill as four gigantic undead figurines stood on the map of Chandrar. Each one a weapon of mass-destruction, an undead of unparalleled size and scope. Jaws of Zeikhal kept growing all their lives, and these had been adults.
City-destroyers. A single bite from their bone-mandibles could crush buildings between their jaws. Of course, only a foe of Khelt had anything to fear.
If Fetohep could control them. If the dead hadn’t lost their ghosts.
They were…inactive. For now. But Khelt’s war-potential had been reduced to almost nothing. Their armies of intelligent, capable undead were now mindless skeletons. They could no longer bring to bear countless legions upon their foes capable of fighting with tactics. They had armies of, well, trash. Fearsome enough in numbers, but utterly outmatched against any trained foe.
In a real sense, Khelt was toothless. But the world could not know this. The problem was that Khelt…Fetohep’s finger tapped two glowing nations to the north.
“The Claiven Earth and Medain continue to send the agreed-upon tributes to Khelt. Today, I will inform the Speaker of Trees and the High King that I will withdraw all but the Jaws from their lands in exchange for a sizable sum. The pretext is that I have grown…tired with the use of my undead. The implication they will pick up upon is that I am wary of other threats, existential ones such as Erin Solstice faces.”
Alked shifted again. He was no great man of politics, but he did understand them. He exhaled.
“Will they accept that, Your Majesty? To their knowledge, you have armies without equal standing ready to crush them. Just as you almost did when you rode north. Would keeping the illusion not be better?”
Fetohep lifted a finger, eyes flashing.
“I had considered this, but an army upon either nation’s lands may be tested. By accident if nothing else. Serept’s Honor-Guard has left Khelt. Their locations unknown. Vizir Hecrelunn has vanished. Salui is dead. To the Claiven Earth, the lack of Revenants might embolden them to take action alone.”
And if they attacked or even tested the undead, they’d find the truth. Fellbow nodded. Retreat was the only option.
“If the pretext works…”
“It should upon the half-Elves. I have always respected their danger, even when Khelt was mighty. High King Perric seems intimidated before me. He has not gainsaid a single thing I have ever said. All forces shall retreat to New Jecrass or Khelt, and the training of our mortal army has begun. Assuming there are no moments of strife, all will be well.”
A safe thing, or it would have been. But Khelt had been active of late. Far too active. Between their new lands in Jecrass, the crushed Terandrian crusade…Fellbow stared at the map. Fetohep waved a hand as the Named-ranker hunched his shoulders.
“I merely apprise you of the situation, Alked Fellbow. This is my duty.”
“Of course, Your Majesty. If I may aid in any way, let me know.”
Alked glanced up, and Fetohep smiled at him, lifting a ringed hand.
“Perhaps I shall send you to inspect New Jecrass, teach the soldiers, or check on the Jaws, Alked. But not yet. Better to present the illusion, as you said. Check upon my subjects; that is all I ask until our next meeting. To them, Khelt’s focus ever lies.”
What could he say to that? Alked bowed, and that was the situation in the early spring for him. The charade, and the King of Khelt maintaining that all was well to his people and to the world. There were not many cracks—then.
Just a few incidents of bugs. Just the magnanimity of Khelt, which was not that out of character, really. Just Alked’s worries. So he tried to make himself like Khelt, but it was so damned hard.
In some ways, it was a poison, and he realized it had missed him, and Frieke, because they were Named-rankers and knew to dodge. But it nearly killed Herdmistress Geraeri.
 
——
 
The People of Zair mostly occupied New Jecrass, the third of Jecrass ceded to Khelt in exchange for their aid by Queen Jecaina. It was their home, and they loved the nomadic lands, but they’d also come to Khelt just to see it.
They were doing well. Centaurs could party as hard as any species, and more than one young Centaur was racing around Khelt, bedecked in new finery, flirting outrageously with interested Kheltians, drinking, eating, the truest joy in their eyes.
“Paradise, we are in paradise!”
They made wreaths of flowers and draped themselves over newcomers to their vast herd-camps. Even Alked got one made of bright white flowers by a singing Centauress. The People of Zair understood what they’d received, and they had thrown a party that hadn’t stopped since they’d been inducted into Khelt months ago.
There was some practicality to it, actually. The food and drink was wasteful, but Khelt had unlimited amounts of that. Rather, the Centaurs were rather shrewdly drawing in Kheltians, teaching them how to hand-braid rugs or make Centaur alcohol by stomping fruits in huge tubs, essentially finding a role in this barter-based economy.
They were good artisans; more than one was accepting orders for bows by Kheltians, and they only had to keep catching themselves and remember not to ask for coins. When Alked introduced himself to a warrior-Centaur by the name of Frivek, even the lifelong fighter seemed happier than not.
“Ah, His Majesty worries about us? He needn’t fear; it was something to see Khelt’s riches. We had some of the young colts and fillies growing lightfingered—but all was returned! The owners barely noticed they were gone.”
Alked nodded, keeping his face straight as Frivek shot him a sideways glance, worried perhaps this might reflect badly on them. Thievery was associated with nomads constantly, but Alked knew better.
“But how do the adults do, and yourself, Frivek? I’ve worried about growing soft and my role here.”
Frivek snorted, but nodded as Alked brought up some of his own worries. He pawed the ground as his hand stole to the light lance he used.
“Well, I’m no Named-rank. Half of my warriors would rather settle down. They’re already planning children. Me? I think New Jecrass will need security, so I fear for my position less. Centaurs can be hot-tempered, especially males fighting over courtships. There will always be a need for someone who can kick everyone into line.”
A fair answer, a good answer. Alked envied Frivek and cast his eyes over the People.
“Do you think you’ll keep to your herd camps and make art?”
It seemed like a logical choice, but Frivek hesitated. He glanced at the enamoured Kheltians before saying something odd.
“Hard to compete. I imagine the Gnolls will parlay their uniqueness too until we find another way to make a mark. A familiar people, they are. I find common ground with them, but I think…no. I think in time, only some of us will stay in the herd camps and practice our arts and ways. The rest will move to the cities. This will kill much of the People of Zair, but our people will be Kheltian, and we will be represented in their numbers greatly from now on.”
What a statement. It sounded like the death of an entire culture, yet Frivek did not sound horrified by this as Alked thought a proud member of his clan might. He eyed the Centaur, and Frivek grinned, brushing at his hair.
“You’re surprised, no, Fellbow? Don’t take this wisdom as falling from my mouth alone. ‘Twas my great aunt’s aunt who said it. Herdmistress Geraeri saw the nature of our bargain with King Fetohep from the start. It is still worth it. Paradise may change us, but safety such as this is worth it.”
“Of course. It sounds like the Herdmistress.”
She was like Fellbow, someone over Level 40, but a leader, someone who could see and direct this entire group of Centaurs and empower them. Small wonder her people adapted so well. Alked smiled; Fetohep would be relieved to know the largest and most powerful of his new people were splendidly integrating.
“May I offer her my compliments? I have a gift from Koirezune, though that means little here.”
He expected she was out and about, but this final formality was actually the hardest bit. Frivek hesitated and stepped backwards. He raised a hoof, put it down, twisted his torso to glance at a Centauress that might be his wife, then seemed to think better of lying as he turned back to Fellbow.
He dropped the half-smile he’d tried to conjure, then lowered his head and voice to whisper.
“Since we are all allies and you and I rode to the Meeting of Tribes and you report to His Majesty who we trust implicitly, this I shall do. But you understand…she has paid her debts. She rode to the Meeting of Tribes as she promised.”
“Of course.”
Fellbow’s internal sense of alarm rose as Frivek nodded to a tent that was not central in the herd camp; it was set back away from the noise and hubbub. Still one of the largest. He noted a few Centaurs entering and exiting as Frivek led him that way; all female, of varying ages, but the rest stayed away.
“Great aunt’s aunt? It’s I, Frivek. I’ve brought Adventurer Fellbow with me to give his greetings.”
Frivek stomped in front of the tent, and a voice spoke from within.
“Who?”
“Fellbow, Great aunt’s aunt. He—the one who fought with you.”
“Oh…come in, come in then. I’ll put some tea together. I’ve been sorting roots for the baskets.”
Another glance. Frivek pushed the huge flaps open as he trotted through, and when Alked saw the Herdmistress of such renown, he sighed, suddenly, as it clicked.
Khelt’s poison.
He bowed as Herdmistress Geraeri stood, somewhat unsteadily, and three Centaurs trotted around her in a panic.
“Grandmother—”
“Mother—”
“Great aunt—don’t trouble yourself!”
Alked’s memory was of an older Centauress, but one who was regal and wild, yes, lined with age, but hair of bronze streaked with grey, wearing gemstones braided into her hair, and the kilts Centaurs loved, patterned with hand-embroidered fabric.
Both warrior and leader, leading her Centaurs after Fetohep into new lands like a storm. In many ways, she was the same woman, but her hair…
It had been bleached of all color. Perhaps she’d been dying it, but it was now fully gray, and instead of the sharp, intelligent features, she seemed lost as she stood, trotting over to a high-standing teapot. She’d been kneeling on the ground, sorting through a tablecloth filled with various roots.
When he saw that, Frivek stopped ducking his head to Herdmistress Geraeri and glared at her family.
“Why are all those roots here? That’s work for a low-level sorter!”
“She doesn’t want to rest, Frivek! We had to give her something or she trots around. Adventurer Fellbow, please sit—”
They had high cushions for Fellbow to sit on so he could be somewhat level with the Centaurs, who sat on huge rugs and cushions to support their horse bodies. He did so nimbly and saw Geraeri moving with practice, finding tea, pouring water into a kettle over a fire. Then pausing for a second before turning blankly to him.
“Fellbow…I remember you. Yes. Greetings, Named-rank adventurer. Have you come on business of some kind?”
“No, Herdmistress. Merely to check on the People of Zair on behalf of His Majesty.”
“Oh, His Majesty. So good of him. Yes, there’s nothing to be done. We have reached paradise.”
She trotted back slowly, and one of her daughters sprang up to check on the hot water and make the tea. Geraeri almost rose, but they bade her rest, and then she sat, blowing on the tea after it was served, and making polite conversation.
And he realized after only a few more sentences that her mind had gone, a bit. She was distracted, asking Frivek about the camps, which had no worries. About if they had food planted and were gathering and had to be reminded that Khelt had all they wanted. Then she sat aimlessly.
“It is well, Alked Fellbow. Very well. Do you go to see the Gnolls next? You must take a gift from us.”
“We gave them several, Mother—but oh, we could find something.”
The three members of Geraeri’s family had to spend the next fifteen minutes picking out a choice gift, which turned out to be a white jade flute that Alked accepted with a bow and promised to gift to the Gnolls. He offered Geraeri some wine from Fetohep’s palace, which she smiled over, and then she sat.
“My strength deserted me when I returned to Chandrar’s soils. Is the King of Destruction still warring?”
“With Nerrhavia’s Fallen, yes, Herdmistress.”
For a second, her eyes seemed to focus, and she whispered.
“He shall never stop his war. The war is a means more than its end. Sometimes, I think he came back just to fill that hole he lost in the last one. But it is nothing to do with us now. I think I shall rest a while, Fellbow. I have grown very tired.”
“You look as brilliant as the moment I saw you riding across Izril’s plains, Herdmistress.”
He lied, and Frivek managed a smile as he glanced away from Geraeri, and the Centauress laughed at Fellbow.
“Whom ever said you were a simple man, Fellbow? No. No, I’m just—content. Strange.”
She looked around, a smile on her face, without her people to worry after. No food, no dangers, no threats…nothing at all for the Herdmistress to focus on.
You lost your edge. Geraeri lifted her cup and drank with both hands clasping it.
“Relaxation will be the death of me, but I have nothing else to do, Fellbow. Will you take your ease? I have countless granddaughters and daughters to introduce you to.”
He studied her and smiled, a slash of an expression as he touched the bow on his back, and it gleamed. Heaven’s Arc, the Relic-class bow entrusted to him. And Fetohep had promised to reward Geraeri in kind, hadn’t he?
“What about your vow to return to Baleros, Herdmistress? Didn’t His Majesty give you armor for that purpose?”
He’d heard the People of Zair had left due to some blood-feud and they had dreamed of returning to Baleros one day, but Geraeri just looked about, and he saw said armor, polished and hanging upon a rack. She smiled at it, almost guilty.
“Ah, that. It’s been generations since we left. I grew up on those stories, and most of the clans that forced us to flee are dead or changed. It’s the kind of dream that you speak of, but in truth? Getting aboard so many ships to leave the home we know? Much less to carve out a place in Baleros with the Dyed Lands erupting?”
She glanced at him, and he understood. When someone like King Fetohep enabled any dream or wish, sometimes you realized what you had wanted didn’t shine as brightly when you could have it. Geraeri chuckled softly.
“I feel rather embarrassed. I have not pressed His Majesty, and I hope he does not take us at our word. We would rather rest in paradise than leave it.”
“I shall assure him of that, if he asks.”
Another chuckle.
“You are an adventurer who wields words as well as blades, Fellbow. Thank you. As you can see, we have come to peace. Will you also retire, now all debts have been paid and we sit in this pleasant eternity?”
For a second, Geraeri’s eyes focused on it, and Fellbow shook his head.
“I have a few more things to do before I can rest, Herdmistress.”
“Oh. Good. I envy you.”
 
——
 
Frivek saw Fellbow off with politeness, only commenting that he thought Geraeri might simply need rest. Fellbow agreed and privately thought she might be dead within the year if nothing roused her.
Something for Fetohep to remark upon. Alked had seen it happen with other Named-rankers. He’d known someone in her nineties, a hard-as-hell Cotton Stitch-woman who’d kept going despite her age and injuries.
When some idiots had finally gotten her to stop, she’d drained of life like that. Just fallen asleep and never woken up.
Sometimes, people needed a drive. Kheltians were born without. How could they live like this?
Alked had met their ilk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen countless times. Silks, not fat in form mostly because they could change it to be beautiful and elegant, but corpulent in their heads and souls, permanently dissatisfied, permanently with something to prove because they had never struggled for anything.
They were, ironically, the ones with the greatest ambitions, with huge ideas of things they could do to prove themselves and little ability to make such things happen. Dangerous clients both for their tempers and inability to gauge threats.
Yet…not all Kheltians quite fit that mold. They were privileged, yes. Rich beyond imagination! But not as cruel, not as petty or insecure.
Why? And could he love them?
Certainly, one of the Kheltians in Ishrilcandrer, one of the new cities built for the Gnoll tribes, did not impress Alked greatly.
Three entire Gnoll tribes had been offered sanctuary by Fetohep, much like how the King of Destruction had inducted so many to his kingdom. The King of Khelt had spared no expense in giving them both city and land to live upon. He had failed to give them people to help integrate into Khelt, but they were not without locals.
Kheltians had come to the new cities, one of which was dubbed Ishrilcandrer, to live alongside the Gnolls. The one who had met with Fellbow to show him around was named Zamec, and he was a native-born Kheltian.
“Welcome to Ishrilcandrer, Adventurer Fellbow! Do you wish to meet the Chieftains? Or an Honored Gnoll, or just see the city? Do you like the name, yes? It is Gnollish! Izril and Chandrar combined, you see, yes?”
The ‘yes’ quirk of Gnolls sounded weird coming off Zamec’s tongue, and it annoyed Alked from the start. The young man was well enough, fully Human and fit enough to stride through the huge archway decorated with…vines? Fellbow saw much of the city was practically overgrown as he tilted his head back.
“Hm. Low buildings. These plants—did the [Shamans] of the Gnolls grow them?”
“Yes, Adventurer Fellbow! This is the Decles tribe’s work. They decided they wished to live amongst nature while the Satest Fletching tribe refuses to live in any city at all! The Gembows have a more formal design, but it is fascinating, yes? The Druid-village of Losht came to help build this place. Some even stayed!”
“There’s a [Druid]…of course there is. Nevermind. And you came here to live?”
Zamec’s eyes gleamed as Alked saw Gnolls opening shutters to hang clothing off lines, sweeping the streets, or, since it was early morning when he’d come to the distant northern city, bringing in kills from hunts. A Gnoll had a string of armadillo-like rats slung over a pole dripping blood.
Zamec halted in clear startlement, but he regained his composure quickly, suggesting that while this wasn’t normal to him, he’d seen it a lot. Alked?
He smiled.
Now this was a city he liked. 
 
——
 
The Gnolls refused to stop working even if they were in Khelt. They hunted, made food, did laundry, and if they had excess? They gave it back to Khelt’s storehouses or traded it for favors.
Since it wasn’t high-grade luxurious food, there was little demand for it, but the Gnolls insisted on eating their own fare and seemed to regard the rest of Khelt like a luxury best taken in small bites.
“It is something we visit on weekends, Adventurer Fellbow, yes? I have visited, hrr, seven cities now, and I intend to go further abroad when I have time. But I keep hunting. Do you know if there is more than small game in Khelt? Myself, I find it hard to keep hunting rats.”
The Gnoll who’d had the armadillo-rats was actually one of the higher-level Gnolls in the Decles tribe, and the eager Zamec introduced them as Alked warmed up to the Gnolls almost as fast as they warmed up under the Chandrarian sun. There were plenty of canopies in the short, mostly single or double-story city. They were all, in fact, laying on long, foldable chairs with more stretched fabric or hammocks.
“Hunting is difficult because anything dangerous is killed by the skeletons, Master Qirrel.”
“Hunter Qirrel if anything, Adventurer Fellbow. Or just Qirrel; I would not call myself master of aught in front of you.”
“Qirrel, then. And I’m just Alked. Mostly, the biggest animals you’ll find are gazelles. They roam from the oases, which Khelt has plenty of; entire herds. I’d be wary, though. Some are friends of [Druids], and they might object if you shoot them.”
Qirrel heaved a huge sigh through his nose.
“This I have been told, yes. Anything else? Of worth?”
“Hmm. Try birds. They migrate more frequently than you’d think, and some are quite exotic. Plus, their feathers are of more use to Kheltians. Come to that, if you don’t mind a bit of digging, there’s a number of subterranean animals. Not much to hunt with a bow…”
“…But hunting of a different kind is hunting. We must all adapt.”
Qirrel’s eyes lit up, and he smiled as Alked outlined a few valuable animals. The Gnoll grinned as he found a map and swiftly marked the spots, then sighed.
“Argh, but the sand. It gets everywhere, yes? And it is coarse and grainy.”
“I’ve heard half a dozen Gnolls say that.”
Fellbow felt like it was a saying, and Qirrel heaved a huger sigh.
“Some Human came up with it, and we have all agreed they were words of wisdom indeed. The heat bakes us dry and itchy, and the sun! We cannot even function when it grows hot. You see?”
The long hammocks or folding chairs had countless Gnolls who were lying in the shade, taking a siesta against the heat. This was not the Decles tribe’s way, but they were adapting. And that was what they were doing, Alked realized. Adapting.
“I have already called for Gembow’s Chieftain and Satest Fletching. Satest still has their Chieftain, but former-chieftain Lessha, she still is one in spirit. She may well win the elections for mayor of her city even though she refused to run.”
That amused Qirrel, who grinned toothily. Alked raised his brows.
“Two tribes have done away with their [Chieftains]?”
Qirrel spread his paws.
“How could we keep them? We must change, Alked, yes? We wanted change, we who fled the damnation of Izril and took King Fetohep’s generosity. I am glad of it. There was nothing but death and despair in Izril. No matter what the other tribes pretend: that Meeting of Tribes was damned by the Drakes, and they will damn us again and again until we are all dead. Not in any one battle, but I am tired of enemies.”
Then Alked realized that Qirrel was the Chieftain of the Decles tribe. He seemed younger, after laying down his class, and he smiled wearily.
“I have renounced my [Chieftain] class entirely. I am but a [Hunter], and a low-level one, but I think…yes, I think I am happy. Even if we have little worth in Khelt, we will adapt. It is stubbornness that keeps us wanting to clean and do what we can now do without. Our young are more energetic.”
Zamec jumped into the conversation here, grinning fit to burst.
“They are coming to our cities more and more! I go around with plenty of friends these days. I know over a hundred Gnolls by name and sight, yes? I often introduce other Kheltians to my Gnoll friends; they can be so ignorant.”
Alked and Qirrel both winced at the ‘Gnollish’ Kheltian, but his heart was in the right place. Qirrel muttered to Alked.
“Here I feared that the Decles tribe would vanish from how many died at the Meeting of Tribes. But to smell and see it, our population is about to double or triple. Though I cannot see what most Gnolls see in him.”
He jerked his head at Zamec, who was flirting with a Gnoll who sat up on another hammock and waved at him. Alked snorted.
“Young people have their own standards, and Kheltians can practice fitness if nothing else. Both are exotic to the other, I suspect.”
And it probably seemed like Zamec could buy them endless luxuries even if he only used the basic amenities of any citizen. Qirrel rolled his eyes.
“Yes, but…sixteen in a week? I don’t think I was that lucky all year when I was young. Damn cities. When I was young, you had to wait until another tribe came over and—argh! I’ve become old! I’m not even married!”
He pulled at the fur on his head in visible distress, and Alked had to laugh. Qirrel rubbed at his fur, hugely embarrassed.
“Maybe I should shave my fur short. It keeps you cooler, but I am still the former [Chieftain]…it just seems surprising for so many Gnolls to find so much to love in Kheltians of any species. No offense, but it is not that common in Izril.”
“Hmm. Does it help that Chandrarian species aren’t Drakes and Kheltians love and admire interesting foreigners?”
Qirrel stopped tugging at his chin-hair and glanced at Alked respectfully. He ducked his head.
“Yes. Yes, not having to warn our younger folk to stay away from Drakes lest there be trouble for any reason—yes. We have less history, and all that we have is gratitude. But the flesh…”
He shook his head, then narrowed his eyes at Zamec, who’d already, somehow, managed to secure a date for a hangout that night. With two people. Even Alked had to stare.
Does he have a relationship class or Skill or something? It’d make sense. He glanced back at Qirrel.
“Stitch-folk can have fur and look rather…furry. Ever heard of Alterkinds?”
“No. But I’m now listening. How is that Human doing that?”
Qirrel edged forwards, still peering at Zamec. Alked coughed into one hand, realizing the oversight Qirrel was making.
“All the Gnolls he’s flirting with are males, Qirrel.”
“What? Oh. Oh. That would also…in Izril, I’d lecture them about relationships that would have Drakes come down on you and needing to have children. Here?”
Qirrel put his feet up on the folding chair and smiled ruefully, then peered at Alked.
“So if I went to the capital, say, would a former-[Chieftain] who is a decent hunter attract any attention? From, say, Stitch-ladies? You know what? Any species. I’m really not sure what you meant by fur. But let’s say I—”
It was at that moment that Lessha of the Fletching Tribe and Chieftain Honoghest of the Gembows arrived. The aged male Gnoll bopped Qirrel on the head with a staff, and Lessha gave him such a look that he fell out of his folding chair.
“Qirrel, we have His Majesty’s servant here and you ask for dating tips? Shame, you fool you!”
“I wasn’t—I was only—ahem! Let me introduce you, Adventurer Fellbow…”
Both Gnoll tribes were close by to Ishrilcandrer. The Gembow’s city, named after their tribe, and the camp of Satest Fletching were very close.
In case of danger. The Gnolls wouldn’t let their guards down again, but both groups were exceptionally cordial with Alked and, it seemed, more integrated than he.
“The richness of Khelt? Yes, it shocked and dismayed and, I will say, even upset us. To see what they have and we do not, that is pure jealousy. Some of us were bothered, but we talked it out. And I hear you, Fellbow, and respect His Majesty’s concerns. But we have found enough to love here. Even if not all of us stay.”
Lessha was the youngest and another skilled archer, though she was a [Bowyer] like her tribe. She grinned as she carved a piece of wood, working on a bow, and old Honoghest sat with a sigh; he was a [Shaman] and [Chieftain] combined.
“Where will you go? Out of Khelt? There is no way back if you do.”
Alked warned them, not sure if Fetohep would relax that rule even for the Gnolls, but Lessha waved this away airily.
“Oh, I do not speak of tomorrow or even years from now, Alked. But perhaps in time, those of us who do not want to live here will set out. We will use this safety to train, to rebuild, to learn. And if we feel it calling in our fur…Gnolls shall explore the world again. Some may want to reclaim Izril. I think it would be wiser to let them go out; once, we roamed Chandrar. We should again.”
Ah, now there was a vision for a people. Qirrel muttered softly as Honoghest nodded.
“We clearly left because of the sand. Which gets—”
He received two pokes and shut up. Alked nodded in appreciation of the Gnolls’ plans and trust to share this openly, but he paused.
“There are truly no problems with the tribes?”
Another grin, and this time, Qirrel replied.
“For a people taken from the site of bloody massacre and dropped a continent away? Few as you could hope, Alked Fellbow. Some, yes. But we have found what it is we admire in Kheltians.”
“Admire?”
Alked sat up, and all three Gnolls nodded. Honoghest spoke in a low rumble, amused.
“We saw what you did, but they demonstrated their own worth in time. You may not see it yet, but if you wish it, stay a day in our company and it shall become obvious.”
What could he say to that but to accept? Alked found himself reclining on a folding chair with the other Gnolls until Qirrel got up to serve them some of the armadillo-rat he’d hunted, drizzled with fat and only a few spices. Alked washed the meal down with some fresh water and then just lay, belly full, staring at the blue skies as the sun warmed him just enough to be drowsy…
Could he live forever like this?
 
——
 
When he woke up, he reached for his shortsword, not knowing where he was for a second. Kill or be killed. Are you safe? Be ready to defend—
Only when he saw Lessha’s eyes on him, and his hand jumped free of the hilt, did he understand. And saw she did too.
For those of us who have lived a life of death and violence, perhaps rest is impossible. Maybe Khelt would just be a place he came back to time and again to relax before being driven back to the knife’s edge where he felt at home.
…He could live with that. Alked wondered if he was a broken man. He’d chipped away a younger man’s body, taken lives, placed himself against monsters again and again, breaking his sense of normalcy down.
It was worth it to see his mother weeping in relief for days in this safe place. To see his younger brother flirting without fear of his cloth landing him in trouble for loving the wrong person, or his father cease his endless work at the grindstone. In time, perhaps he’d find something for himself.
But first, protect this nation. Love it. Alked didn’t know what had woken him at first. Then the voices from below the roof where he had been napping rose again, and he heard it.
The Gnolls in the city. They were singing. Alked saw Lessha beckoning him to the edge of the roof and glanced down. Then he saw, in an open square filled with a huge ring of furry bodies around a bright, glowing crystal hovering in the center, what the Gnolls did with their free time.
They sang. It surprised Alked immensely; he had heard countless songs in Hemp communities, the kind that Cotton and Silk would never hear. But he didn’t realize…
“You’re surprised, Fellbow? This pleases me that a Named-rank adventurer looks so.”
Lessha stretched out as she leaned over the railing. She had some feathers tied into the mane of hair running along her back. She had mostly black fur and a streak of silvery grey highlighting her features. The former [Chieftain] closed one eye as Alked replied softly.
“I knew Gnolls sang, of course. But I didn’t think so many sang so…well.”
“Ah, well. Every Gnoll in a tribe joins in songs. Is it not so among your species?”
When he told her it wasn’t common, at least, in Stitch-folk societies in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, she looked surprised and a bit sad for him.
“Learning that any voice can be part of beautiful chorus, regardless of talent, is a valuable thing. Kheltians sing, of course, but not like this. This attracts them, so it became a tradition. It’s…hrr. What is the word? Tourism, yes?”
She was a bit dismissive, but the chorus of Gnolls were singing songs that Alked had never heard. He knew Great Plains Sing, but this wasn’t that. The Gnolls were crooning, and they were very good at that with that bass rumble in their voice. This was some song about a Chieftain fighting a great monster.
First, the male Gnolls sang, then the female Gnolls sang. An alternating dance of voices until they joined together.
That was the first song—then the music picked up, and Alked heard a far faster song, and the crooning became a roar of voices. A chant—the stomp of feet. Drums played, and he thought this was a warrior’s song, perhaps for before battle.
“It’s fine music, Honored Lessha. Fine as I’ve ever heard.”
He smiled and was surprised by it. The Gnoll woman grinned at him, in delight for the compliment, and pointed down. Qirrel was there with Honoghest. Singing with Gnolls young and old.
“We are Gnolls broken by the revelation at the Meeting of Tribes, Alked Fellbow. By treachery and the lies of Plain’s Eye and Chieftain Xherw. It took a horrific undead from another continent showing us mercy to survive.”
He opened his mouth to deny that, and she lifted a paw to his mouth.
“It is fair to call us that. A broken people surviving only on generosity. But we have not forgotten our community. We shall thrive. Both Gnolls of Khelt and our cousins in Reim. If a thousand years pass, we shall not forget that.”
In her eyes sparked a different promise than the Centaurs of the People of Zair. Like a pool of bark, a river of a forest, her gaze was like the history of Gnolls. Changing, shifting, but always that people who had once explored every inch of the world.
In a thousand years…Alked wondered what her people would look like and if that dream would come true. He supposed only Fetohep would know, and for that one thing, he envied the Revenant.
Truth behind these promises. But then Lessha stepped back and pointed.
“Ah, but here—this is good. Here is the other part. Which endeared us even to Kheltian’s silliness. Look.”
He’d been lost staring at her for a moment. Alked swivelled on his heels, and he was just in time to see Zamec of all people appear in the center of the ring of Gnolls next to the floating blue crystal.
“What is that thing? It’s magical, some kind of mass-spell…”
She grinned.
“A stone of cooling. It would be a bonfire in Izril, yes? But it’s too damn hot here. In the nights, we’ll set a flame, but now…do you see?”
King Fetohep had probably just sent a giant stone of cooling because the Gnolls were sweaty. Alked shook his head, but then he saw Zamec stop and beam as he lifted something up.
A bag of holding.
“Honored friends, I am Zamec, here to answer the Gnolls’ great music with Khelt’s! I am the poorest of those here, yes?”
Half the Gnolls, Alked was pleased to see, winced at the ‘yes’, but they held back as Zamec went on.
“This is a quickly-made copy, and I am little-practiced with this, but I have had to play and adapt this listening to the Singer of Terandria’s works.”
Oh, great. He was going to put on music, but it was from the Siren of Songs? Alked sighed; he’d bought enough song-crystals for his sister and mother (and father) to know what to expect. Each new song was good, but—wait. He narrowed his eyes as Zamec lifted a bag of holding up and then carefully pulled something out of it.
Something…huge. No Bag of Holding had that capacity! But the object he sat on with a flourish was a stool, and in front of it was an entire…
“What is that contraption?”
He’d never seen the like in his life. Lessha snorted softly.
“Damn Kheltians. It’s a modified harpsichord. They must have watched the broadcast of the Meeting of Tribes and seen our piano.”
It was a more simplified version of the larger instrument that was the grand piano. However Zamec had come by this one, it was clear from how he sat that he had some practice with it. Some kind of broadcast…? Lessha smiled mysteriously when Alked glanced at her and tapped the side of her nose.
“I get some information from the Meeting of Tribes, even if we have left, Adventurer Alked. Though I am not the Chieftain of the Fletchsing tribe.”
She chuckled at that as if that were some huge joke, and Qirrel glanced up from where he stood and rolled his eyes. Alked just watched Zamec spread his hands over the keys.
He was prepared for a cover of Singer Cara’s music. Or for some of the other Kheltians or Gnolls to join in and just sing a song straight, but Zamec just took a breath. Then he leaned his head back, chin tilting upwards, and he closed his eyes. His hands rose and touched the keys of the piano.
And then Fellbow realized that the Singer of Terandria’s songs did feature a piano, harpsichord, or something close to what Zamec was playing. And—her songs didn’t feature complex parts at all. That instrument was just one note in a chorus, and the voice almost always predominated.
This was a song only from the piano. With deference to the power of the Gnolls’ combined chorus, the lone Kheltian created just as much awe in Alked with his solo performance.
He played. He played like a master, and Alked had heard enough to recognize it. He was not as good as the likes of Barelle the Bard, who was an undisputable master across the world, but one or two levels below Barelle?
“Dead gods.”
Zamec’s fingers were dancing across the keys of the piano, faster and faster, as the gentle song picked up in intensity. It was a beautiful song, like someone building a structure out of panes of glass, each one polished.
It continued to be so beautiful, each note pristine, but the tempo was increasing. Half again as fast. Double…then back to a slow, building chorus. But when the music slowed, there were twice as many notes despite the slower beat.
The careful chaos was—actually a bit damn stressful to listen to. It reminded Alked of his rushing heart when he was waiting for a monster to round the corner, a hammering crescendo of panic as he lay, bow drawn, one arrow left. Life or death—
And the song was getting faster. Building and building as Gnolls shifted, striking faster and faster until the tension made Alked realize he was actually gripping the railing of the rooftop. Lessha’s teeth were bared, but she was nodding to the beat until both caught each other’s eyes and realized they were tensing. Then they laughed, and Zamec struck the keys, leaving only a ringing silence, a rushing of beating hearts—and he turned and bowed. Then he caught sight of Alked and waved his hands.
“It is an incomplete song, Adventurer Fellbow! But it evokes a panic well, I hope! Next? I apologize if I have disappointed my great Gnoll friends, but we try music here!”
He leapt off the harpsichord and swept it into his bag of holding. Another Kheltian strode forwards, a middle-aged man with a cello. He planted it in the center of the ring of Gnolls and spoke.
“This is a poor performance, but I have practiced it for a decade, and a Noelictan once told me it was good. For our new citizens and their music, I play a song from Noelictus’ fields.”
Then he touched the bow of his instrument to the cello and produced a somber note that ran across the city. And Alked saw it. He turned to Lessha and whispered.
“Music.”
She winked at him.
“Well, the art is very nice, but yes, we were impressed by the music. You should see them dance or act.”
 
——
 
It was no grand revelation. In fact, Pewerthe and Fetohep seemed rather surprised when Alked relayed this to them later, but the thing that had charmed the Gnolls and the redeeming element of Khelt was just that.
King Fetohep’s triumph. Queen Xierca’s really. How did you deal with a citizenry who had everything? They might turn to hedonism, or worse, and other rulers of Khelt had been forced to curtail such rising corruption in their citizens.
The solution that Xierca had found and Fetohep had continued was art. Music. Dancing, even.
Alked had associated the fine food of the capital city with richness, but he realized—someone did have to make that food. The skeletons made plenty of food you could eat for free, but to have a city full of tasty delights, you had to have citizens who wanted to cook, who took pride in it.
As for cooking, the same for music and the other arts. Kheltians, it turned out, could dance. Not only that, but their obsession with the latest fads meant they had both [Actors] and a wide, wide variety of influences.
Cut his strings, Alked swore he even heard some Hemp music in the hodgepodge of musical stylings that went on through the rest of the day. The Singer of Terandria’s music style predominated, but like Zamec, countless Kheltians were experimenting with her music. It was like a cavalcade of talented artists emerging from rather insipid, ordinary people.
Because, clearly, the Kheltians felt like they were barely rising to the Gnolls’ splendid culture. Nevermind that the Gnollish tribes had far fewer musicians-per-pound than the Kheltians.
It was the communal singing that drew the Kheltians like Zamec in, Alked learned. The community among the tribes was foreign to Kheltians who loved the mass-songs and traditions.
And that…was all Alked wanted to see, really. He let out a breath then as he spent a day with the Gnolls and found that there was indeed something of Khelt to love. It was not perfect, of course. Zamec was still mildly annoying. But it was that promise that maybe…if he laid down his bow, lost all his edge and means of protecting himself, he too might learn to make something beautiful like that.
He wasn’t going to do that, obviously, not any time soon, but it was enough. Alked smiled, and motivation returned, he intended to tell His Majesty of Khelt that the Gnolls and Centaurs would be just fine, each in their own way, though Herdmistress Geraeri was a consideration.
When he returned to the capital, of course. Tomorrow. Because he spent the rest of today circulating the city, seeing the many things the Gnolls were building, listening to music, eating Gnollish food, ducking Zamec, and flirting with Lessha.
The former-chieftain of the Satest Fletching tribe seemed to regard it as a game, and Alked might be a Named-rank adventurer and thus a tad bit close to insanity, but he was still a master-class archer, and Gnolls loved archers. She made the ‘mistake’ of betting a kiss that he couldn’t hit any target she could point at with an arrow.
 
——
 
The next day, Qirrel pointed an accusatory finger at Alked as he saw them off.
“You too, Fellbow? I thought you were on my side! Curse you, curse—”
He earned a full kick from Chieftain Honoghest, and Alked rode away back to the capital with lightened spirits. The Gnolls were doing great. In fact, when he brought up Khelt’s woes, they had all just gazed at him.
“Oh no, flies. Beetles. I saw five of them this year. I may die.”
He had laughed about that with Lessha that morning. Upon his return to the capital, though, the first thing Alked Fellbow saw was an upset Kheltian woman screaming about ants in her flour that she’d left out in the open overnight.
In the middle of the street.
He sighed.
Back to Khelt’s woes.
 
——
 
The bugs really disturbed Fetohep of Khelt. They disturbed his people. They could not be allowed to stand, and he explained it to the man a sixteenth time.
“Insects do not exist in Khelt.”
“…At all, Your Majesty?”
“No.”
Alked smiled politely, and Fetohep paused a moment and realized he must explain.
“You laugh internally, Fellbow, thinking I make some hyperbole or joke. No. I am telling you that insects, ants, mosquitos, much less beetles, do not exist in Khelt. There are no rats in Khelt.”
The smile vanished. Alked frowned and leaned forwards.
“Pardon me, Your Majesty, but you are making some kind of overexaggeration. They surely exist. If they are all but unnoticed, that is one thing, but you have sewers. Rats…are rats. They have burrows, just not in cities.”
Fetohep smiled.
“No, Fellbow. They do not exist. Allow me to give you a prescient example. Two hundred and thirty years ago, mosquito swarms were plaguing Chandrar. A rather prolific spawning. They flew across the borders into Khelt, as one might expect. They brought sickness, itches…a million skeletons were deployed. Every body of water was treated for their eggs, [Detect Insect] spells honed and sands combed for their offspring. Skeletons with fine mesh nets waved them through the air ceaselessly. Every bush, every plant in Khelt was treated to destroy the insects. Then the undead advanced. A hundred mile radius was cleared around Khelt in every direction. The Quarass at the time thought it might be an invasion at first until I clarified. Finally, I had a barrier spell erected across Khelt that killed every single bug that flew through it. There were five mosquito found the next year. Ah, I correct myself. Five mosquito eggs, as they could lay dormant for years, hence the thoroughness of the search. None found the year after. Bugs. Do not. Exist. In Khelt.”
The Named-rank Adventurer was once again reminded of both Khelt’s richness and its ruler’s single-minded obsession with, well, perfection. He shifted in his chair.
“…But the insects in Khelt are no plague, Your Majesty. Your subjects claim that.”
“Would it not be the result of plague spells? Some foreign assault by Roshal, Fellbow? The complaints and sightings are daily, now.”
Fetohep stood and stared out the window of his palace, disturbed. Alked peered at his back and coughed.
“…No, Your Majesty. Bugs are a regular occurrence.”
“A daily one?”
Fetohep swung around, and Alked nodded slowly. Fetohep tapped his teeth.
“Truly? Could it not be a plague?”
Alked thought of the tiny ants that probably came from a single colony in one woman’s bag of flour and a beetle nest that had required him to go out and just destroy it. Then he thought of a [Plague of Lice] spell.
“…I am positive, Your Majesty.”
“Hmm. But they must be stopped! Where one bug exists, more are hidden. And yet, and yet…my skeletons cannot clean. They are inept. I must control them myself, perhaps. A full deployment lest this spread. Do you have any advice, protector of my realm?”
The Stitch-man wore the expression of a Named-rank adventurer who had suddenly been relegated to bane of insects. Hilarity, uncertainty, dismay.
“I…could you control enough undead to sweep the city, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep was thinking, musing.
“Two hundred thousand may do. They may have to go across all of Khelt. Yes, I will try this. It is taxing, you see, Alked. You understand, the undead of Khelt were, until now, loyal and intelligent. I needed not direct them manually, which is what I shall do. What I now must do. I am not a [Necromancer]. I have some powers in that area from my status as ruler of Khelt, but in life, I was but a passable warrior and weak leader.”
“Were you not Level 50, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep flicked his fingers.
“Barely passable. I had no legend of me like the Herald of the Forest. A different time. I am the weakest of my predecessors in talent in my respective field…I digress. I can control the undead, but this shall take my focus entirely. Monitoring my kingdom is how I would prefer to use my focus, but if no other solution can be effected…”
“What about magical spells?”
“Magical spells tend to create magical monsters if overused. Additionally, it requires [Mages] to cast them in most cases, or scrolls. And Kheltians would be…hesitant to deal with so many insects.”
“Ah. A beetle would have them run screaming.”
Fetohep didn’t care for Alked’s honesty, but he sighed.
“…As so. Lastly, this is simply the role of skeletons. If alternatives needed to be found, there would be questions. I have looked into other solutions, but alas…the only other servants who can act autonomously would be Djinni or Golems. And I trust Djinni not at all and object to their use. As for Golems? I have bought near two hundred from Illivere and House Terland.”
“Is that not enough, Your Majesty?”
Alked ventured, and Fetohep glanced at him and realized the man was serious.
“Aha. No. Two hundred? Two hundred can barely provide one service for a city, Fellbow. If I deployed all two hundred purely in service of cleaning in Koirezune…they might stay on top of the insects. No. I have tasked most in service to Farmer Colovt.”
They had to have a source of food. Khelt could pay for it for a long time, but without the skeletons tilling the fields…Alked sobered.
“So, you must control the skeletons.”
“Yes. Unless there’s some…anti-insect Relic that can shield entire cities. I shall put my [Historians] upon the task. They must be dealt with, Fellbow. My citizens are noticing.”
And the bugs were spreading. They multiplied like, well, bugs. So, Fetohep sat on his throne the first night and began sending out skeletons by the thousand. Then realized he had to control them even more finely than he wanted.
Two hundred thousand is not enough! But even working without a second’s pause, he could barely keep up. Not for the first time since the Meeting of Tribes, Fetohep wished he had a [Necromancer] he could trust.
If I could induct Pewerthe or…no, two hundred thousand can at least clear the most obvious insects. It was only ten hours of managing two hundred thousand skeletons, more or less simultaneously.
The morning thereafter, Fetohep placed a call with the Magus-Crafter Femithain of Illivere and Lady Ulva Terland, inquiring if they might take a larger order of Golems as he had some interest in them.
Both were rather receptive to his request, but Magus-Crafter Femithain regretted to report that the war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen that Illivere had entered on the side of Empress Nsiia meant that his [Golem Artificers] were occupied and could not satisfy such an order.
House Terland also indicated that they would be delighted to produce a thousand Golems for Khelt over ten years’ time. When he requested they be their highest-grade, multi-faceted Autonomous-class Golems able to adapt to multiple situations, Lady Ulva Terland laughed…then realized he was serious. She informed him it was not a matter of cost, and the King of Khelt ordered as many Golems as she could make as quickly as she could make.
Then he spent the rest of the day sending [Messages] to Kevin, asking about these ‘vacuum cleaners’ that the young man had once mentioned.
Then Fetohep remembered Kevin was dead.
He returned to business. Commanded two hundred thousand skeletons again that night.
The next day, Fetohep smiled when no reports of insects came in—until someone found them nesting in their laundry hamper. He began sending [Messages] to Wistram about mass-cleaning spells, but Archmage Viltach also backed down on an order of a hundred thousand mass-insect cleansing ward totems.
The third night of directing the skeletons, King Fetohep was so occupied he missed three [Messages] from Jecaina and a query from the Quarass and had to reply to them in the morning. He spent the rest of the day having servants bring him notes on Relics of cleaning and searching up how fast ants spread.
He did not like the facts he obtained.
On the fourth night, Fetohep of Khelt dreamt his first dream in six hundred and fifty years.
 
——
 
The thing about being King Fetohep’s heir apparent was that it gave you very little power and a lot of work. Which, Pewerthe supposed, was appropriate.
The rest of her afterlife would be spent largely the same way, if her King was any indication. Not that it had been hard before this…she’d met with Fetohep twice a year, which he’d deemed sufficient, for only twenty minutes sometimes. They had lived like half-Elves in their unchanging kingdom.
These days, she might meet the king every day of the eight-day week, and it was rare they didn’t speak at least one day. And she had duties that took her outside of Koirezune too.
It meant her pottery classes and workshop were in danger of closing—which meant her license for the workspace might be revoked. Space was at a premium, and if she couldn’t justify her craft, she’d lose the entire cozy area down Giantsbreath Avenue filled with flowers and a morning breeze that swept through the city…
Argh. It would be fine. Pewerthe didn’t have time for her pottery beyond a few pieces each night, and her only hobby was communicating with some penpals via her [Message] scroll. She had a lot. More and more Kheltians were picking up people to talk with, but they often came across as too sheltered or didn’t realize their penpals couldn’t keep firing off [Message] spells because it cost money where they lived.
In fact, she was writing to one of them now using Wistram’s new messaging services.
 
Potgirl: I must go. I have to ride and check on some farms this morning.
SexyAir: Noo. What? They make you work?
Potgirl: It’s not work, it’s His Majesty’s interests.
SexyAir: Darling child, that’s just work for monarchs.
RealStitching: Forsooth, as I think it’s said. Doesn’t Khelt import everything?
Potgirl: His Majesty wants Sweetberries he doesn’t have to pay for. And I actually can tell if a plant is growing. I must remove myself and return at a later date.
SexyAir: sys
Quiescent Bloom: ???
SexyAir: ‘See you soon’. You have to srsly learn how to write.
RealStitching: No, I believe you do.
 
Pewerthe smiled as she closed the scroll that Fetohep had given her, one of the few perks of her job. Talking to outsiders made her feel better. Made her feel useful and important. She strode to a stable where horses were free for anyone who could ride and hadn’t hurt or endangered themselves or the animals.
You had to have a license for that too. A lot of deaths in Khelt came from injuries while riding or operating vehicles. Still very few, but it was the leading cause of death, so the handler checked her license twice.
“I’ve seldom seen an All-Animals pass, Potter…Pewerthe? Oh—”
Yes, yes, the Potter Who Returned. The Girl Who Lived Outside For Several Years. Pewerthe kept her face straight, but the younger [Handler] was congenial. He eyed her nose and faint scars, but he had a few himself from horses. The more physically demanding your hobby or job, the more tolerant you were in Khelt, she’d found.
“Where are you bound? I ask only because some of the animals do better the longer they go.”
“Round trip to Farmer Colovt’s new farms and back. It’s a four hour trip?”
Normally, she’d take an undead horse and carriage, but like everything else…the [Handler] seemed to read her mind.
“That’s hard, even with our best saddles, if you don’t have the legs for it. I’d offer a carriage, but they haven’t been available of late. Needed in New Jecrass, I think.”
Another moment where Pewerthe felt her stomach churn. The secrets unravelling. She crossed her arms casually as he led her to the stables where happy horses, camels, and even magical animals were trotting around a huge ranch area rather than being penned in. Several came over excitedly as he chose among them.
“I can ride that long without issue. Do you get a lot of complaints about the lack of carriages?”
“Oh, constantly. Especially because half the citizens who want to use the carriages wish to visit New Jecrass, but it’s too dangerous for that. Some of the soldiers who went north tell me it’s still a wild and dangerous place. One can be attacked there, you know!”
“By [Bandits]?”
The young man gave Pewerthe a blank look, then shook his head.
“No, other citizens, I mean! They shove each other and raise fists—terrible things. Though the ones who come here are well-behaved. It’s not that much grumbling. The bugs were worst. I had to deal with flies around the animals’ manure.”
“Ah, well, it is spring. These things happen now and then.”
The [Handler] shook his head in the face of Pewerthe’s blithe comments.
“The city’s abuzz with it, Potter. So many complaints. It must be some terrible migration of insects! But these last few days, I’ve not heard of more than one or two incidents. Those skeletons are back sweeping the streets. One was cleaning the manure pits just the other night—I had worried since they seemed less active of late. These are exciting times, so I don’t complain, but you know our olders.”
That was good. Pewerthe nodded slowly and smiled. The ‘olders’ certainly did like to complain, but she suspected even the youngest Kheltians would be up in arms if things were really bad.
“Well then, thank you for this lovely mare. I’ll be back.”
“Of course. Wait, you forgot your bag of treats for her! And if she tosses her head, it means she’s uncomfortable, so check her hooves or for anything on the road…”
Pewerthe was on her way after a few more minutes, and the ride to Colovt’s farm was not bad. She set a brisk pace, enough for the mare to clearly enjoy actually having to run, and Pewerthe realized she was not that saddle-ready. But she doggedly kept going, even when she felt a bit saddlesore. This was nothing to worry about. She knew that.
 
——
 
Farmer Colovt was another Kheltian who had real levels. More than Pewerthe’s. And he had weathered hands, even if his skin was in immaculate condition. But he actually knew his trade—over a hundred thousand skeletons and four dozen Golems were moving around the huge fields he had constructed, and he doffed his straw hat to bow to her.
He knew her true rank.
“Potter, His Majesty’s attention is an honor—”
“Oh, stop it, Colovt. You know he values you, and I’m just Pewerthe.”
She was tired and a bit saddle-sore, but the [Farmer] just smiled at her.
“I don’t grow tired of awe for our [King]. Do you?”
“…In some ways, I think the awe wears off. But I do admire and love him. I’m just tired, and you shouldn’t speak like someone who doesn’t know him, Colovt. He respects someone who speaks to him not like a fawning subject, but an equal of sorts.”
Pewerthe ducked her head by way of apology, and Colovt offered her some purified water in a crystal cup. She drank gratefully as her horse munched on some grass.
Grass since the entire area was being misted by water spewing out of a series of magical gemstones configured to draw from Khelt’s aqueducts and hydrate the entire area. Colovt had Golems, the skeletons of Khelt, and magical backing from Khelt’s mages, who were still top-tier in the world.
Everything he needed to ensure Khelt could feed itself. The problem was that Colovt’s face was still anxious as he gestured to the fields.
“Perhaps I…I am not so confident because my efforts, despite all I am given, fail to bear fruit. Literally. You see my fields, Pewerthe?”
She peered at the swathes of green, occasionally changing into bands of other colors, that marked huge fields of various plants. Sweetberries, as she’d said to her friends, but also mundane crops like Yellats or corn—some had to be controlled in different bounded fields marked by pillars of hardened magicore that raised the temperature or adjusted the humidity.
She even saw a Terland-made Golem taking a soil sample. The wooden Golem had leafy limbs like it were a tree and inserted some soil into a compartment on its hand before discharging the soil. It seemed to approve of the results and went back to tromping down the field, inspecting crops.
It all appeared very good to Pewerthe, but Colovt wasn’t happy.
“Something is wrong with half my crops, Pewerthe. The Yellats have already had a first harvest. I could let them lay in the ground long as needed, of course, but I wanted to check…they’re fine. A few other crops, but the Sweetberries? These cucumbers? I think it’s the imported seeds or something…nothing’s growing.”
That alarmed her.
“They look green to me.”
She could see the plant’s leaves growing; some of it didn’t even look like plants. Cucumbers, for instance, were viney flowers of yellow, and she refused to believe the yellow buds would turn into the oblong cucumbers she knew and cordially despised. But Colovt just knelt over them, frowning hugely.
“They’ve been so for weeks. This is wrong. They should continue growing. I’ve never had this issue in my entire life. I’ve sent for [Druids] to figure out the problem. At first, I thought it was the Golems or foreign seeds, but these are ones from my own crops I re-planted.”
Her heart began to beat worriedly.
“If it’s a disease or something…?”
He gave her a wretched glance.
“I don’t know. My Skills aren’t what other [Farmers] usually have. I don’t have any to prevent disease or rid myself of pests, Pewerthe! Some for poor soil quality from my time in Reim, but the rest is just quality-focused. Skills to make the yields better or shorter—I haven’t needed anything else before now.”
He was still a Kheltian [Farmer]. Pewerthe stomped over to another field and saw bright red flowers above the Sweetberries.
“Could it be they’re missing nutrients?”
“The Golems don’t think so! And they’ve been a huge help. The skeletons are not as—as responsive as they used to be. Perhaps because so many work here? Or they are busy in New Jecrass?”
He didn’t know the entire truth, so Pewerthe let that go, but the Terlands’ farming Golems seemed very good at their jobs. Colovt mopped at his brows.
“They even helped me with those insects that everyone’s spoken of. We had a number of them—gone now, of course, and I’m used to the odd bite or finding them, but perhaps? If His Majesty would send for another [Farmer], I might be reassured. There’s a woman from Germina who I have written to who may be able to figure it out.”
“Give me her name and I’ll see about bringing her in. Just to consult, you understand. It wouldn’t do for anyone to think things were ill. Khelt must be best in all ways.”
“Of course, Pewerthe. I just hate to let His Majesty down, but I don’t know…”
Colovt seemed like he’d been tearing his hair out over his first harvest for weeks. Pewerthe took down the name of the woman and promised to look into it. She even saw some [Druids] coming as she rode back to Koirezune: more flower than man, one of them, so bestrewn with blooms that his clothing was literally alive, some leafy overcoat of flowers.
And bugs. Bees and butterflies clung to him, and she guessed he’d come from the one [Druid]-based settlement far to the northwest. It was the only one allowed such insects, and most Kheltians never visited because of the ‘hazards’. Another [Druid] was a Falcon Beastwoman who flew down. Not high-level, but higher than most Kheltians; they were allowed to cherish nature to the fullest extent there.
Well, she hoped they’d find the solution, but her report to Fetohep wouldn’t be that promising. Not the worst, either; Colovt was growing Yellats, and he’d shown her enough to feed even Koirezune…for a day. Assuming you could get anyone to eat raw Yellats.
 
——
 
The point was that Pewerthe saw progress despite the many problems she knew Khelt to be facing. She had just returned to her workshop after dropping her tired mare off at the stables and was putting her feet up on a little heated footstool while she reached for a scrying orb and some clay.
She’d see Fetohep that evening; Colovt’s report wasn’t dire, and that hard ride deserved a moment of pottery. Pewerthe began to spin some truly black clay on her potter’s wheel—magically powered to spin, not manual—and began finding some bright colors to mix into the clay.
She wanted something with real contrast, like a vision of stars in pitch blackness or something. Anything to match the tales Fetohep had told of her of that [Innkeeper] who was Khelt’s ruler as much as she. If Erin Solstice were to take the throne…not that anyone would need to replace Fetohep for a long time. But if she were to do so, could Pewerthe cede the position to her easily?
I must think she is fit to rule Khelt, if so. Though my opinion may not matter if Khelta herself approved of her. I just want to know what she is like.
Fire. Pewerthe was picking out colors like those magical flames she had seen the [Innkeeper] make when a rattatatatat! on her door made her jump. Her hand hit the clay, and it instantly spun itself into a lump.
“Khelta’s bones, I’m closed!”
She snapped at the knocker, annoyed. This wasn’t that rude; Kheltians might be a people without physical strife, but they could be nasty and socially obstreperous. So much so that throwing hands was Pewerthe’s trump card at times. However, the urgent voice from the door was both a whisper and shout.
“Potter Pewerthe! Is that you?”
“What? Speak up!”
She had to get up as someone hissed at her. Pewerthe groaned as she turned off her footstool, pottery wheel, and stomped over to the door. She glared as she yanked it open—three people nearly bowled her over.
Each one wore black and gold on their tunics. She blinked. That was the mark of the palace.
“What is it? Does His Majesty want me that urgently?”
They scrambled up, and one of them, another day-servant chosen to work in the palace, grabbed her urgently.
“It—he—you must come quickly! We checked your workshop, but they said you’d left! And you didn’t answer our [Messages]!”
She blinked, then checked her scroll and realized she hadn’t—Pewerthe sighed.
“What is it? If His Majesty wanted me, he’d send a skeleton.”
She was used to them walking towards her and his voice speaking through their mouths, or one rising from the ground where they were buried, delivering instructions. But the man clutching her arm had a face like he’d been stabbed. And she knew what that looked like. He was sweating, eyes darting around as another shut the door, then yanked it back open.
“It—you must come very quickly. Adventurer Fellbow is there, but you are on the list of those to contact.”
“What? What’s wrong?”
Then she felt a note of alarm, and when none of them wanted to say—it was not far to the palace. She could have run, but they insisted on walking, on acting casual. Of course, that probably made it more obvious, but when she got to the palace and saw all the servants gathered around the doors to the throne room, some on their knees—Pewerthe stared at them then strode into the vast chambers.
“Your Majesty?”
Alked Fellbow turned from a figure sitting upon the throne with perfect, regal posture. King Fetohep of Khelt stared out into the distance, ever as she had known him, perfect of grace. Unwavering, his robes pooled around the ancient Truegold throne.
There were no golden flames in his eye sockets. Alked Fellbow had an arrow loosely nocked to Heaven’s Arc, and he had been feeling at the ruler of Khelt’s head. Pewerthe stopped.
“Your Majesty?”
 
——
 
“We found him like this last night. At first, we thought—he did not wish to be disturbed. But when the sun rose and he did not move, we attempted to rouse him.”
“How?”
The day-servants were terrified. One spoke to Alked and Pewerthe as they stood in a drawing room. Not the throne room; they were so terrified half could barely speak there.
“W-we called to him. Then raised our voices. We thought he might wake, but after hours passed—”
“You should have sent for me immediately!”
“We thought—then you were gone, and—”
Pewerthe was tearing through a book Fetohep had given her. She riffled through instructions on how to ring the Dragonward Bells, commands to activate this function of the palace or this contingency. Alked wanted to peer over her shoulder, but she snapped.
“Don’t touch this book or even read it! The ward-spells will kill you just for looking!”
He backed up at once. This was a relic of Khelt. Instructions for the next ruler. The next heir. Which was now her.
She had thought she had at least another century. Fetohep’s body was not in nearly as much disrepair as Xierca’s had been. He was…she…
“He might not be dead.”
“He cannot be!”
The servants wailed as Alked spoke, and Pewerthe’s heart twisted in her chest. She spoke, trying to keep her voice from shaking.
“This has never occurred in the history of his rule that we know of, Alked. After the Winter Solstice…you recall his orders to you?”
She remembered them. He’d had her locked in a safe-room while he confronted the woman he refused to name. Had Alked aim an arrow at his head so that if he fell—the Named-rank adventurer was thinking the same thing, but his reply was incisive. He wasn’t panicking.
“I know, but he thought he’d be possessed. This isn’t the same scenario. Nor is His Majesty truly dead, I think.”
“How can you tell?”
She glanced at him; there were no instructions about malfunctioning Revenants she could find in the book. There was a…ritual though. A way to kill herself and bind herself to Khelt if need be. She stared at the words, then tore her attention away.
I will do as I must. But first—the Stitch-man replied, eyes flicking to the throne room.
“Undead don’t die like the living. If he was alive and had passed, I would observe his body stiffen like it is now. It’s a known phenomenon among non-Stitch-folk. Bowels empty. The skin grows taut, and joints lock up—”
One of the servants blanched, but Pewerthe nodded impatiently.
“But undead don’t do that?”
“No. They turn to dust or crumble. Skeletons crumble; zombies collapse. But the nature of undead is that they reanimate as long as there’s potential, usually a head. If he were…dead, then I’d expect his corpse to reanimate. Which would mean facing an undead of Fetohep’s caliber. I’d imagine it would start at Draugr-strength—at least. Probably higher-level.”
There was a horror of a thought. Pewerthe swallowed and cast her eyes towards the throne room.
“Have all the day-servants leave the throne room. Do not let them go into the city. No one is to speak a word of this. Understood?”
The man was staring at her uncomprehendingly.
“Potter, what are you talking about? We—we must rouse His Majesty at once! Surely there’s some way to heal him? If he is—is—the next ruler of Khelt. Someone must help us! The Quarass?”
She closed the book with a snap, and he jumped as she stood. Alked’s eyes fell upon her.
“The next ruler of Khelt is me. Until we know if His Majesty is…here or not, I will do as he has appointed and trained me to do. Seal the palace. No one is to speak of this.”
They gazed at her in horror, and one of them dropped one of Fetohep’s favorite drinks. The ghostly liquid spilled out as they gaped at Pewerthe.
“You? The potter?”
She sighed.
 
——
 
Locking down the palace was the easy part. The servants were in no fit mood to do anything. Most were frozen, but Pewerthe quickly realized that getting anything else done was going to be—hard.
“We cannot admit His Majesty is incapable. Not until we are certain. If I am Khelt’s next ruler, I must have the authority of Khelt, and I do not. Not for its citizens or the undead.”
She grimaced as she stood with the only capable people in the capital: Alked Fellbow, Frieke of Medain, and an officer of Khelt’s armies, [Death Commander] Lanodest. They were on break from their duties in New Jecrass and luck had them here. They had served during the war against the Claiven Earth and Medain, and that made them capable enough.
Frieke of Medain and her Seahawk did not seem happy about the news, but they were still Named-rankers. Lanodest appeared ready to puke, and Pewerthe felt the same.
“Just so I’m clear—you cannot command the undead?”
“I can command them like any citizen of Khelt if I see them. The wardens of the vaults recognize me and would listen to me. But I don’t command the breadth and scope of Khelt, no. If I speak, they will not rise across the land. Nor do I…look the part. You saw how those servants reacted to me.”
They were not taking her new leadership well. One look at her and they’d asked why Fetohep had chosen a [Potter]. Why no one had told them. Pewerthe’s smile was grim.
“I am well-known, but it would be like hearing your next-door neighbor were the new King of Destruction, adventurers. Yet I have been prepared, and I was chosen near a decade hence. Understand that it is true. Do you doubt it, Death Commander Lanodest?”
He bowed immediately.
“If His Majesty wills it, let it be so, Potter. But…”
He glanced up at her, and she saw doubt in his eyes. Yes. Pewerthe touched her face.
She did not look the part. No mortal, living, and breathing soul could command Khelt. If she were a Revenant, undead, with eyes of fire, then she would be their Queen, regardless of her background.
But I do not want to die yet. Frieke raised a cautious hand.
“Er, killing yourself and rising as a Revenant seems a bit extreme at the moment, Your Majesty.”
“My thoughts exactly. But I am in a difficult position, then. I have no command of the undead or living. But it must be until we know what is wrong. Have the [Magi] arrived?”
Alked glanced at the doorway.
“They’re gathering.”
“Good. Then swear all to secrecy and inform them of the situation, Alked. You direct them. You will give orders to the servants. Lanodest, you will command the undead and army. Frieke, you will represent His Majesty’s voice if we need communicate with other nations.”
All three nodded at this, and Alked looked unsettled, but then agreed. He was a known subordinate of Fetohep and a Named-rank. He strode out of the throne room as Pewerthe glanced around.
“I’ll use this study. Come here to find me, and get the servants running messages. We shall say nothing, show no weakness.”
Khelt could continue running a day without Fetohep, surely. Enough time to uncover what was wrong, right?
 
——
 
The [Magi] had no idea what was wrong with him. A pale-faced [Grand Magus]—a magister Recime, formerly of Belchan—gave a report to Pewerthe.
“I have never seen the like, Potter—er, Your Highness. I studied some death magic in Belchan, but it wasn’t taught widely after Az’kerash. And you know the rules against death magic in Khelt.”
“I’m aware. But can anything be done?”
“We—very cautiously—tried to inject death mana into His Majesty. That might rouse or empower undead. But he had an abundance of it, and the palace is steeped in death magic. That was not the issue. More than that? You could have a [Necromancer] try to command him, but such a powerful undead would resist anyone under Level 40 completely, I imagine, and if they were to control him…”
Bad options. Pewerthe cursed.
“Do you have any contacts who know death-magic, Magus? Ones not in Wistram or a…large organization?”
“I…I could reach out. What about the [Necromancer], Pisces the Scourge?”
For a second, Pewerthe hesitated, but she shook her head.
“Even if he is trusted, he is an adventurer. They bring attention, and he is unpredictable and far away. Find an expert who can devote their time to this matter now. Do so covertly. Have a [Mage] stationed in the throne room. Next!”
 
——
 
The Quarass of Germina raised her brows when Frieke of Khelt appeared on the scrying orb.
“Where is Fetohep? He is late.”
“Er—I am Frieke of M—Khelt, Great Quarass! I merely beg your forgiveness. His Majesty is occupied, and I have been dispatched to render due apologies.”
Frieke was pale-faced, but she bowed as the Quarass’ brows instantly shot together. She sat up.
“And what requires Fetohep’s attention so thoroughly that he will not issue such apologies to me in person?”
“I am not at liberty to say, Quarass!”
Frieke bowed and apologized as Konska flapped his wings, and the Quarass peered at her. Only the Quarass had necessitated a personal apology; the other groups that had been waiting to speak to Fetohep or asked for his time could easily be [Messaged]. The Quarass had been insistent.
“I see. Then I shall accept his apologies myself whenever he finds it convenient. Farewell, Frieke the Falconer.”
Her eyes flicked left, once, and she nodded and rose. Frieke exhaled, then dashed off to find Pewerthe.
 
——
 
“She’ll send a spy to the palace if she hasn’t already. Someone intercept them.”
Pewerthe had been warned about the Quarass. Sure enough, Alked caught a single citizen of Khelt trying to sneak into one of the palace’s entrances, and the undead halted another. Two more came posing as day-servants and were turned away. She wrote down their names as Frieke looked horrified.
“The Quarass has spies in Khelt?”
“She has spies everywhere, Frieke. They might not even think of themselves as spies, merely people who owe favors. I am trying to…”
She had taken King Fetohep’s personal Scroll of Messages—well, he had a bunch of them—and had been reading through them. Some of what she found made her blink, but the urgency kept her reading on.
It felt like intruding into someone’s personal life, and she had never thought of His Majesty as having any personal moments, but here was the entirety of it. Just small things like a conversation with a little girl.
 
Mri (14/23/23): ur a poo head.
Fetohep (14/23/23): Thy fur coat would not satisfy a Fraerling beggar, or even be worth a place as a chimneysweep’s doormat.
Mri (14/26/23): Your Queen called, she said your skin is so dusty that all the water in the sea couldn’t moisturize it.
Fetohep (14/27/23): Your mother wishes me to inform you that your odor has set off [Dangersenses] across half the world.
Mri (14/29/23): Fetohep? The Winter Solstice is coming. I’m scared.
Fetohep (14/29/23): I will do what I can. Listen to your mother and Erin Solstice, Mrsha.
Fetohep (15/1/23): Mrsha? Is all well?
Mri (15/3/23): your underwear stinks worse than Ekirra’s after he eats a bean-curry pot.
 
Little things. She saw messages to Kevin—unanswered. And a message from the Quarass.
 
Quarass: What is occurring, Fetohep? If you are reading this, Pewerthe, respond and I shall render my aid.
 
“As terrifying as you said, Your Majesty.”
Pewerthe debated writing back, but the Quarass was like quicksand. Engage with her and she’d find out everything in moments. Pewerthe left the message be—she was searching for someone.
“Vizir Hecrelunn. Vizir…”
Of all the beings who could help Khelt, it would only be him. The terrifying, the dangerous, the egomaniacal burner of cities. Hecrelunn. He’d vanished after the Meeting of Tribes, but Fetohep’s spies had noted a certain eastern coast of Chandrar had gone dark, and rumors of a ‘Great Overlord’ had appeared despite the information blackout.
However, if he’d messaged the Vizir, it wasn’t among his casual parlances. Cursing, Pewerthe called out.
“He doesn’t have a way to contact Erin Solstice or the Vizir, Frieke! Can your Seahawk fly messages or would a Courier be faster?”
Frieke leapt up from where she’d been sitting and trying to write in a journal.
“Konska? He’s not that fast, but he could fly…you want to contact the [Innkeeper]? Why?”
Pewerthe didn’t want to explain right now and glanced back at the [Messages].
“He has a lengthy missive composed to her in the Forgotten Wing Company of Baleros, and to Niers Astoragon, but he never sent it. Why? Both could help lead Khelt. Nevermind the [Innkeeper]; she’s too far. But the Vizir—”
Frieke was turning to Konska, who was giving her a look as he preened at one wing, when the doors to the study blew open and salty air stung Pewerthe’s face. She spun, and Frieke drew a sword, but hesitated as a voice booming like the sonorous deeps spoke, and two blue-white flames burned in a skeleton’s eye sockets.
“If you seek the Vizir, my crew and I will reach him fast as any bird can fly. But the moment he hears of His Majesty’s weakness, he’ll return to rule this nation, Heir of Khelt. Be that the right course, I shall steer us that way, but be certain of it. Sand at Sea sails by your will.”
Captain Cikroleth. Pewerthe stared at him and then realized she had forgotten entirely about Khelt’s last and only remaining Revenant—the vessel and crew of King Dolenm, the famous pirate-king of Khelt. She almost bowed to him, but the [Captain] was all action as he strode towards her. He still wore the garb of a [Pirate], clinking with jewelry upon his bony limbs, and a bandolier with six different weapons strapped across his chest. His clothes hung across his thin frame, but he spoke like a [Pirate].
Ironic, then, that he was the only Revenant not to abandon Khelt.
“We came the moment servants sent word. We were returning already with a haul of goods.”
“Sit, Captain Cikroleth. If there is anything you can do, tell me. What—what has His Majesty had you doing?”
The undead captain sat, uncorked a bottle, and drank some ghostly liquid which ran down into his ribcage past his open vest and pooled there before making his bones glow. He made a spitting sound and wiped his mouth, despite both actions being entirely unnecessary.
“Naught but escort or trade work. We’re too restless upon land, so His Majesty had us run deliveries for Khelt, mapping the new seas out. ‘Twas luck had us back so soon. I’ve already taken a look at His Majesty. He’s not dead. But nor is he here.”
She felt relieved at that, then worried.
“But what, then?”
“I don’t know. I’m no death-magic expert nor a bone-fucker from Wistram. Being made undead—eh, the most I can do is pull my head off and gut a bastard who thinks I’m some skeleton. Dolenm was the one who knew death. I’ve seen this sort of thing happen, though. He could throw his soul from his body to another undead. It looks vaguely like that’s what happened here, but Dolenm would always rouse himself if his main body was endangered.”
“So His Majesty could be…elsewhere?”
“Aye. Or cursed, or any manner. The question is what your will is. Find this Vizir? He’s a bastard sure enough. We had to rouse one time just to keep him in check. I warn you: if he comes, he comes to rule. Wouldn’t be the best, wouldn’t be the worst of options.”
Pewerthe didn’t know. She was paralyzed by the decision, and so did what she feared might be the worst option: delayed.
“Until we know if His Majesty is well…”
Until we know. Cikroleth seemed to understand what was wrong, so he stood briskly.
“Sand at Sea’s naught much good for more than fighting or movement. We can kill a score, but we’re one ship, not a fleet. I remind you of that, just as I reminded His Majesty. Not every [Pirate] of this era is a wet-behind-the-ears rookie. Same for armies. Have you need of me, Majesty, call and we sail.”
He bowed once, then stepped away. Frieke exhaled, wide-eyed.
“I forgot…that’s a relief. I felt like Alked and I were the only fighters here.”
“Khelt has backups. Magical weapons. Even more undead. It just lacks for a thinking, functional army. It’s all mindless skeletons now.”
“…Say what?”
Frieke’s expression of alarm made Pewerthe realize she wasn’t in on the truth. Rubbing at her face, Pewerthe began to explain then wondered if this was a mistake.
But Frieke has seen Fetohep. If she isn’t loyal, I’ll soon find out. Trust needed to be extended because it was clear they had four people in this palace besides Pewerthe who could be trusted to act! More if Captain Cikroleth’s crew could be counted, but…this was a nation.
Even so, Sand at Sea reassured Pewerthe, and after a few more checks to ensure no one was suspicious of Fetohep’s ‘busyness’, Pewerthe let herself relax as the day turned into evening. Another mistake. It was only as the sun was setting that someone came to her study in a panic.
“Pewerthe! It’s from the city! I didn’t realize it because we locked the palace, but I went out—just to get some food because no one here is doing anything and—”
Frieke burst back into the room and Pewerthe leapt to her feet where she’d been dozing.
“What?”
“The skeletons. They’ve stopped.”
 
——
 
All the undead of Khelt had gone still. They stood where they were, staring skywards, frozen. They had to be re-commanded to work, and they did, but with a slowness that was palpable.
It was not a disaster—but it required a statement, and Pewerthe was working on one with Grand Magus Recime.
“A death-mana spike of unknown elements…command any undead you see to return to work. His Majesty is busy ensuring the most sacred dead are not disturbed…there.”
That would scan, and if anyone was spying on Khelt…Pewerthe was having it sent to each city when more servants entered the study.
“Your Majesty, requests for urgent communication from the Claiven Earth and Medain.”
“Send them the same polite apologies.”
Pewerthe waved it off, and the servant hesitated, again unwilling to quite believe she was—
“Yes, but it’s the Speaker of Trees and the High King!”
Pewerthe paused this time.
“His Majesty is busy. He is most definitely not here. What else is there to be said? Polite apologies.”
Her argument got through to the woman, who hesitated, then began to scribble a reply. Pewerthe noticed a few icons on the [Message] scroll. Six missives from the Claiven Earth, eighteen from Medain. Then again, she’d noticed High King Perric loved to chatter to Fetohep.
It would hold. After ten more minutes of ensuring that the announcements had gone out, Pewerthe was relaxing when the servant returned.
“Pewerthe—A’ctelios Salash wishes to speak. And both previous nations have issued requests of the utmost importance. The Herald of the Forests, now, and High King Perric and his [Generals].”
“The Carven City? Same rules.”
“They’re insistent—”
“He’s busy.”
What else could be said? Pewerthe didn’t like it, though. Why those three nations? She got up after a second and checked the message scroll.
114 unread messages from High King Perric.
34 from the Speaker of Trees.
7 from A’ctelios Salash.
She stopped, then, and an uneasy feeling grew in her stomach. She turned.
“Perhaps I could speak to one of them. The Speaker—”
Then Alked Fellbow burst into the room, and his face was pale as he raised something.
“Pewerthe. The scrying orbs. The Jaws of Zeikhal have activated. They’re attacking.”
She turned, then raced out of the study. Into the throne room, which had a view of—Pewerthe threw open the doors to a patio and strode out, and she thought she might even be able to see them, even if they were just dots on the horizon. Moving dots.
 
——
 
The Jaws of Zeikhal were moving. Attacking from where they had been stationed across each border. One was lumbering at A’ctelios Salash as the image on Nerrhavia’s Wonders network changed to a Jaw approaching the forests of the Claiven Earth. Hundreds of lights were blooming over its skeletal body, and it slowed, shuffling backwards as if in pain.
The half-Elves were trying to force it back. But Medain—Pewerthe saw a Jaw of Zeikhal bearing down on a city, looming over the walls, which barely stopped a pincer as it smashed through the enchanted masonry in a second. She peered up.
“I cannot stop them.”
“We have to destroy them.”
Alked was reaching for his bow, but even the Relic-class weapon…could it destroy a monster that big? Pewerthe was staring at the image as someone argued.
“If we do that, we admit Khelt lost control. No. Let them rampage.”
Captain Cikroleth stabbed a finger at the scrying orb, and everyone turned to him, appalled.
“What reason would His Majesty have for doing that?”
“I don’t know. Find one. But Khelt never admits it’s down a hand. Politics is a game of cards.”
“They’re murdering people! We have to stop them!”
Frieke gazed down at her former homeland. Pewerthe’s lips moved.
“Frieke. Do you have a [Message] contact with His Majesty of Medain? No—send a missive to him anyways, and to the Adventurer’s Guild. Tell him to mobilize his army to fight the Jaws off. The Claiven Earth is already fighting, and the one at A’ctelios Salash—”
She’d seen a single image of the Carven City’s people boiling out the great monstrosity’s orifices and climbing the Jaw. Like a sea of zombies, biting, tearing at the giant undead. It was crushing them second by second, but they had no fear. If the legends of it were true—
“Me? What do I say?”
Frieke whirled, and Pewerthe’s lips moved faster than her heart. The [Potter of Secrets] glanced up, and everyone turned to her.
“Tell him…His Majesty of Khelt is raging. A citizen of New Jecrass was slain by a [Bandit] who came from the north. No, an entire family. Alked, repeat the warning to the Claiven Earth. You are both petitioning His Majesty of Khelt.”
She had a quill in her hands, and she was writing in her personal [Message] scroll. Frieke’s mouth fell open, then she was scrambling for a quill. Pewerthe saw Alked’s head turn to her as Captain Cikroleth grinned. The Named-rank studied Pewerthe.
“Medain will take immense casualties if it can even defeat the Jaw. It’s not the Claiven Earth.”
The undead [Captain] nodded.
“Aye. A bastard’s lie. Or do you disagree with Khelt’s heir?”
He placed a hand on his side, favoring the hilt of his shortsword, and Alked hesitated just once.
“No.”
Pewerthe met his gaze levelly.
“If I sent Sand at Sea, they would be hours to reach Medain, and they are but one ship, even if you and Frieke crewed it. This is what I deem best, Alked. Tell them to break the Jaws.”
He considered it, like a man approaching a battle from all sides, then nodded.
“Of course.”
They wrote and watched as the Jaws rampaged into the night. The city had gone quiet outside, Pewerthe realized. The citizens had scrying orbs. They had heard the news. A citizen—a family of Khelt had died, and this was the punishment of the King of Khelt.
She wondered if they understood how this appeared to other nations. When she sent a servant to check, they gave her a simple report:
“Citizens are watching the destruction and battle with solemnity, Potter. They mourn the damage to the Jaws of Zeikhal. There were tears when the one in the Claiven Earth lost one of its pincers.”
She just studied him, and the servant himself stared at the images of a Jaw collapsing outside A’ctelios Salash and gazed away, as if that hurt his spirit. The sand was red with blood. It had torn pieces out of A’ctelios’ head, but the wounds seemed to be regrowing, and the Jaw was dying. Pewerthe murmured.
“I see. You are dismissed.”
She sat into that long night, watching the scrying orbs, writing replies to her friends abroad, and counting the missives on Fetohep’s [Message] scrolls rising in number. She had produced a quill and was inking it when there was a voice.
“Pewerthe?”
She turned, ready to react, to speak, and saw a figure standing in the doorway. His eyes were banked, the fires low. The golden flames of King Fetohep’s eyes reflected something she had scarcely seen in him.
Fear.
Guilt.
Horror.
“Your Majesty—the Jaws—”
“They have halted. One is dead. A’ctelios Salash has slain its Jaw. The other two have retreated. I have sent Captain Cikroleth and Alked Fellbow to…effect their dismantling once they reach New Jecrass. Have you communicated in my name?”
“Not yet. I was about to—”
The [Message] scroll floated towards Fetohep as he beckoned for it. He caught the golden parchment and tapped something, then read. His eyes dimmed further, and he stood there, but then he produced a golden quill made of magic and began to write.
“Your lie was an apt one, Pewerthe. I shall rectify all that I can. Rest—”
“Your Majesty, what happened? Was it an attack?”
She had to know. Fetohep glanced up, briefly, and shook his head as his hand moved. He snapped his fingers, and servants appeared, relieved, overjoyed. Heedless of the cost.
“No. Servants, scrying orbs now. In my throne room.”
They vanished, and Fetohep regarded her.
“I believe it was the skeletons.”
“The…the cleaners?”
“Yes. Too many, too long. I was unconscious for…a day? Yes. I dreamed, Pewerthe. I dreamed for a day and thousands died.”
He had dreamed of Khelt’s ruination and woke to the sound of crumbling dynasty. The King of Khelt stood there as she rose and bowed, and the same fear was on her face, of someone thrust into a role she was not ready for.
“I can help, Your Majesty. The tale is a decent one. It will have repercussions, but…”
Then she stopped, and digested part of what he’d said. King Fetohep nodded, and his worries about the bugs seemed so small. But he said it, so softly.
“There will be more insects as the spring deepens. Alternative solutions must be found. I shall release the Claiven Earth and Medain from the terms of their surrender forthwith.”
It would not be the same again. Then, as the overweary [King] sat back upon his throne, and Kheltians began to realize something was wrong…
Then came the Prophet.

10.56 F (2026-02-15)

Eternal Khelt was the kind of place you liked to forget about if you were anywhere but Khelt. It wasn’t just that it was an undead necrocracy that went against some species’ sensibilities. The problem with Khelt was that it was paradise. An unassailable paradise, and if you thought about it, it grew on you like a canker sore.
It made you feel like you were doing something wrong, that you were inferior to that bag of bones and that spoiled nation. Khelt was the opulent mirror, and most preferred to ignore it, but it was hard of late. Khelt occupied a share of the media thanks to King Fetohep’s popularity, but only Chandrarians thought of it as an immediate threat or ally, and it was famously neutral.
…Until now.
The broadcast with the Jaws of Zeikhal attacks hadn’t been widespread. Wistram News Network re-aired it, but only Nerrhavia’s Wonders had broadcasted live coverage; it was a huge incident, but it was Chandrarian news. Considered second-rate by Wistram News Network.
However, to Chandrarians it was disturbing. Terrifying. You could see the Jaws rampaging in the distance if you were close enough and had the right angles. Of course, the reason had been announced: the death of a family due to bandits had driven Fetohep into a rage. A reminder of his wrath.
But to the nations who had a bit more perspective on Fetohep, it still seemed…
“What the hell was that about?”
The Herald of the Forests seldom swore, but she slammed into the meeting in the Claiven Earth, rattled beyond belief. She had been riding around the destroyed section of their forest that the Jaw had attacked. It hadn’t gotten far; the trees had stopped it from cleaving inwards as well as the half-Elves bombarding it with magic, but it had been close.
The Mage of Rivers, Joreldyn, appeared just as tired as she; he was lying out in his chair, decorum forgotten, skin waxy from overusing his mana. In truth, Ierwyn felt useless; she’d led three charges on the Jaw’s legs but it had so damn many, and her warriors were…second-rate. Even their battle with Khelt hadn’t given her a force like the ones she’d used to command.
She didn’t want to blame them. She didn’t want to blame herself. But she had to know.
“Did we cause this attack, Speaker? Or did Medain, or was it somehow both?”
She demanded answers from the weary half-Elf whom the entire council turned to. The Speaker of Trees, Lastimeth, cleared his throat as he stood.
“We do not know. His Majesty of Khelt finally made contact with me as the Jaw withdrew. He spoke shortly—an apology of sorts was rendered. If I simplify what was said, he claims to have lost his temper and regards the deaths of half-Elves and the destruction of part of the forest as unacceptably extreme. He is prepared to release us from the terms of our unconditional surrender.”
“He—he lost his temper?”
A half-Elf squeaked at the table. Everyone sat up, but Joreldyn cracked one eye open, and Ierwyn spoke on pure instinct.
“He didn’t lose his temper. This has never happened in all the years I’ve been alive.”
They turned to her, and the Speaker frowned. He was younger than she was by a number of centuries, but still over two hundred years old.
“Respectfully, Ierwyn, his wrath is infamous. And this is not the first time it occurred. The Winter Solstice, you recall? Though that did seem to be a death magic aberrance…”
This time it was Joreldyn who interrupted. The most senior and high-level half-Elf waved a hand.
“That was death magic and out of Khelt’s control, however disturbing. This was different. I agree with Ierwyn’s statement. The wrath of Khelt is infamous, yes. Infamous and cold. Fetohep might send a Jaw upon us, or that Vizir, but only if we were to blame. Striking three nations—something is off.”
The Mage of Rivers sat up and rubbed at his face, conjuring some tea out of the air into a magical cup. He drank.
“I need actual fluids, not mage-food—I was inspecting that Jaw as it departed. It seemed—off. When it was rampaging, I was trying to interfere with its control magics.”
“Futile. Kheltian undead are famous for being the most advanced undead in the world. The hardest to suborn. When I was young and Fetohep was a living man, his forces couldn’t be controlled by [Necromancers].”
The Herald’s comment made Joreldyn nod, but he pursed his lips.
“Nevertheless, I had to try, Ierwyn. But I didn’t sense any…it was like he ordered it forwards and gave it no further instructions. Or—he had given it no orders at all.”
Every half-Elf fell silent at this, and Ierwyn felt at the back of her neck.
“If that were so—why? Could it be distance? The magnitude of the undead? More death magic gone wrong?”
Joreldyn shrugged.
“It wasn’t noticeable, if it was foreign control. It could be lingering effects from the Winter Solstice, but the reason is far less clear.”
The Speaker turned to the Mage of Rivers.
“Mage Joreldyn, can you investigate this? Herald, I would like you to double the guard on our forests. The Jaw is falling back, but for the peace of our citizens if nothing else…and I shall prevail upon all our sources of information in Khelt, such as they are, to figure out what is going on. I have one good insight, but it is a closed nation, even New Jecrass.”
He grimaced, and Ierwyn was surprised he had any information there. Spies in Khelt were a joke. But she nodded, and every half-Elf bent their minds to the same task.
Figuring out what was going on in Khelt.
 
——
 
Even nations bloated by bureaucracy like Nerrhavia’s Fallen could tell something was off. Queen Yisame met with her personal [Master of Spies], who assured her he would get to the bottom of this, and the Court of Steel reminded themselves Khelt would never attack them.
They also didn’t really enjoy the reminder that A’ctelios Salash had done what two great nations of the north could not: slain their Jaw of Zeikhal outright. Naturally, both were tiny, puny nations with considerable strength if you pushed them, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen had no need to do that! If anything, this was good; Khelt had pulled the Jaws of Zeikhal back and it seemed like the King of Khelt intended to return to his peaceful isolationism.
A’ctelios never expanded past its borders, even if there were rumors…well, the only damaged parties anyone cared about were the Claiven Earth, who’d only lost a bunch of trees and some civilians, and Medain, who had seen half a city crushed. If anyone was going to be upset, it was High King Perric of Medain.
What did he think of King Fetohep’s deeds?
 
——
 
High King Perric Reoustinal, with his red-blond hair, stood, thick-shouldered, dressed in a regal white uniform and gold linings, a funeral white, with a cape of blue on his shoulders. His face was blank, though his strong chin and purple eyes were still elevated as he stared at a wall.
His hands clasped behind his back. He stood there, pondering a wall of his palace as, the day after the wrath of Khelt, his kingdom mourned the dead and stood in shock and fear.
He was seen by many members of the palace, and he did not speak to them as his bodyguards kept all away. He studied the wall.
The High King was later seen sitting on a bench in the royal gardens, watching seagulls as they pecked at some seed. He did not move as they flapped about and squawked. Still that blank expression on his face. One tried to poop on his shoe, and one of his Golden Ranks shot it.
Finally, the High King sat at his banquet table, not touching the sumptuous breakfast set before him. In response, in mourning, in contemplation, he ignored his concubines and wives beseeching him to eat, the worries of his court and people. For you see, he mourned and reflected.
…After about four hours, King Perric decided that he’d been seen to mourn long enough, and he broke his fast with some breakfast fruits and water. He did summon his foremost [Generals] and advisors, though, and when they gathered, anxious to hear his thoughts, he brushed at his hair with genuine weariness and smiled.
“Well, His Majesty of Khelt has informed me we are now released from our pact of surrender with Khelt. He expressed regret over his anger to me, personally. And do you know what I have learned?”
“That we need to counter such powerful weapons of war, Your Majesty? First Mars the Illusionist, now the Jaws?”
One of his [Generals] had gone to fight the Jaw and wore a haunted expression on his face. But High King Perric just waved this away.
“Yes, yes, that. No, what King Fetohep taught me is…perspective.”
He stared past them all as they buzzed and were uncomprehending, which was fitting. Perric continued.
“It is a lesson between [Kings], you see. And I take it as a mark of respect that he taught me this. I, who had little to learn from any lesser man. I understand. To me, a [High King], it was a city.”
“Evect. A city of over a hundred thousand souls. A fifth of them dead, countless more buried, and the rest homeless. Only a quarter of the city even stands! Everything shattered or crushed to rubble. They had vineyards—”
One of his [Advisors] came from there. The man had tears in his eyes. Perric glanced at him and waved him away. He shook his head.
“Yes, to me it was a city. And I felt it. Oh, I felt every life and grieved, and to him? It was a message. You see, that is kingliness. He moved a piece, and I took heed of the move. I grasp it, now.”
He tapped the side of his head as they peered at him, still not getting it. Perric shook his head and sipped from his cup of water.
“Don’t concern yourselves with it. I am sure this is a singular event. I have Khelt in hand now that I understand King Fetohep’s mind.”
A terrifying ruler. Perric owned that he had underestimated the peerless King of Khelt. His defeat was understandable. Only a ruler beyond the King of Destruction could have bested Medain, and yes, Fetohep claimed to have acted in wrath, but High King Perric could divine the true nature of politics between crowns. He shook his head, rueful.
The man might have ruled half of Chandrar already if he wished. But how could you entice a man who had everything…? Ah, well. He knew what had to be done.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was not having a good day. He had not been having a good week, to be fair, but he had hoped…
The stress of controlling so many undead had caused a disaster. The minor woes of Khelt had become major ones, and the fallout?
Three Jaws of Zeikhal rampaging. One lost, two to be decommissioned. Two weapons of war paid for by previous rulers…destroyed. But he could not risk them animating again. They would be taken apart, the pieces broken up.
More failsafes gone forever. It had to be done. Worst was the dead. His inaction had cost thousands of lives in Medain. Dozens in the Claiven Earth, unknown numbers in A’ctelios Salash.
Men, women, children. He grieved, even for A’ctelios’ madfolk. But as a ruler, he also feared each nation’s reprisals.
A’ctelios Salash was silent. They had said nothing after initially asking him why his Jaw was advancing, but the Claiven Earth were…reserved. They had accepted his explanations, and the Speaker of Trees was canny. He might not have believed Fetohep, and the King of Khelt could not apologize—it was not done, it was not seemly. But Medain?
High King Perric of Medain had always been a headache for Khelt. First had been all those damn statues, the constant messages trying to win himself Fetohep’s favor. A terrified man expecting vengeance and retribution and everything he would do to someone he’d defeated. After this attack? Well, Fetohep had spoken with the High King personally, and he’d thought the man had understood.
Unacceptable loss of temper. Freedom from your terms of surrender. Fetohep had let him be until he’d received the following letter, delivered by Courier no less.
 
To His Eternal Majesty of Khelt,
Following our previous discourse of which we, the High King of Medain, have taken your gracious wisdom, we understand ourselves not to be absolved of our terms of Unconditional Surrender and have witnessed the dissolution of such Treaties by our own eyes.
We, the High King of Medain, grasp the intricacies of Khelt’s largesse and as such, do pledge to double this month’s tribute as a sign of our continued goodwill and Highest Esteem towards Khelt’s will. 
We are yours, most admiringly,
High King Perric of Medain, Sovereign King of the Thalassocracy of the nations formerly known as…
 
His titles went on about as long as the letter itself. King Fetohep stared at the missive, then turned it over.
“What?”
Clearly, the High King had taken the wrong idea away from their chat. Nothing would do but Fetohep rouse him on call again and explain that further tribute was not necessary. High King Perric beamed and bowed, and King Fetohep had a bad feeling after the call…
He was midway through taking another communication spell with the Quarass of Germina when the same Courier—a panting Garuda clutching at her side—handed him a second letter. King Fetohep actually half-covered his face as he read it.
 
…will triple our tribute…
 
“Would His Majesty like to send…a return letter?”
The Courier peeked up, and King Fetohep glanced at her.
“No. Rest, Courier, at your leisure.”
She gratefully bowed, and he had a servant send her off with a restorative. King Fetohep decided—not—to call Perric a third time.
The Quarass appeared amused as she cleaned her fingernails.
“His Majesty of Medain is most taken with you, Fetohep.”
“As a leech unto the ass of a mule, I cannot savor any pleasure in it.”
“You should have removed him when you had the chance and installed the Vizir in his place. It would have saved you and much of Chandrar from headache.”
He wanted to rebuke her, but Fetohep thought that would have been so much more…he shook his head, irritable, and slashed two fingers.
“It is well of you to speak of hindsight, Quarass. At the time, such an action would have ground against every deed and thought I stood for. I notice you did not advise me to do so in the moment. It is unseemly of you to claim wisdom where none was shown.”
She ducked her head at that, slightly abashed, but then, she was a child. There was a certain naïvete or a less incisive cut to her decision making she had to account for. An undeveloped brain was a danger even to the Quarass, shackled by her mortal form.
Still better than the previous woman. Nevertheless, that was a hindrance now. The Quarass idly blew on her nails.
“As Shield Kingdom and neighbor to Khelt, I have of course assured many concerned nations of the reasoning behind your actions. I trust it shall not occur again?”
Did she know why he’d lost control? She might well guess, with her countless lives and experience, but sometimes she was genuinely ignorant. Fetohep had an undead’s perfect poker face, and he kept his eye-flames from wavering as he lifted his shoulders.
“One must hope, Quarass.”
“Indeed. On that note, you may be pleased to know that my nation flourishes well with the King of Destruction’s lax sovereignty. Hellios, Germina, even the parts of Belchan he now owns. Far better than ailing Jecrass whom the High King continues to press.”
“Hellios I do not think of often. I trust former Queen Calliope has no designs upon the throne?”
She had abdicated, but her son, Siyal, and she might well stir rebellion…the Quarass smiled thinly.
“She is not material fit to be even a soft dagger in the King of Destruction’s back. Her son? Perhaps a small irritant, but in truth, the King of Destruction did well to grant the Gnoll tribes land there.”
“Ah. Are they now the new rulers of Hellios?”
Casual conversation. Fetohep tried to immerse himself in that. The Quarass shook her head.
“No. Hellios’ folk were rather hostile towards them, but the Meeting of Tribes painted clear enough their plight, and it was the smallest of work to ensure further incidents did not occur. The last thing needed is for the King of Destruction to behead an entire town.”
Especially because Germina, as his vassal, would suffer his collapse. Fetohep’s right eyeflame burned brighter like a raised eyebrow.
“Odd for the Quarass of Germina to bestir herself without pay.”
“I am amply paid in contact with his Earthers, the riches from his victories, and—hmph. I have more of a temper than some incarnations.”
The Quarass half-rose, then seated herself and continued painting her nails with what he strongly suspected to be some kind of contact-poison. Or maybe she just wanted to paint her nails. Germina loved the rich blues of the seas and waters they had never had in great abundance. She held up her nails, then spoke.
“It was good practice, in fact. I needn’t move my agents in great number. Rather…<Post Rare Quest: The Great Hunt for the Stone Ochirar>! As so.”
He was rather impressed; her eyes barely flickered. He’d tried posting his own <Quests>, but Kheltians fell over themselves trying to fulfil them, and it was more diversion in his mind. But this?
“Ochirar. Isn’t that a cat-like beast?”
“More elk. Imagine one with stone antlers and hide. Very, very difficult to take down. This is a rather violent specimen. I imagine the Gnolls will flock to the <Quest> despite minimal reward on my part. The hunt is their desire, and they are good at it.”
Culturally, didn’t Hellios enjoy some hunting along with their masonry? Fetohep’s mind worked as he tried to see her angle.
“So you have posted similar <Quests> that unify Hellios and Gnolls in good rivalry?”
She smirked at him, and he sighed as he had a servant pull the quest up. It took a short amount of time to query the Adventurer’s Guilds in Hellios, and when he read it…it was rather standard except for one part.
 
Limitations: The Ochirar is a fearsome foe when angered. It is said, ‘no Ochirar will kneel before any single arrow’, even one shot by a [Hero]’s bow. To this end, all aspiring [Hunters] must form a team of six wherein two participants must be Gnoll and two Human. The beast’s spoils shall be divided between both peoples as is only right and fair.
 
Then he saw it. Fetohep cast the <Quest> aside and nodded.
“Ah, one would suspect either side of seeing through such blatant restrictions.”
She gave him a pleased smile.
“If they do, what of it? The first <Quests> were far more subtle. Prince Siyal has already a number of acquaintances—and rivals—among the Gnoll peoples. And a restless [Prince] has little to do with a mother who complains nonstop in his ear whenever he remains at home.”
And probably despises the Gnolls, which will either convince her son, or, if he begins to take the opposite opinion, divide them. How clever.
This was probably what the Quarass regarded as a side-project. She sipped from a cup before adding pointedly.
“And so you see, my ability to post twice as many <Quests> per week is, in fact, advantageous, Fetohep. Not a waste of a class.”
His face didn’t change, but she glared at the smirk.
“One would never question the wisdom of the Quarass of Germina, infallible in her ways.”
Her glower intensified, and she took a longer gulp from her cup.
“There are facets to these <Quests> that no one has looked into. Much less the titular [Innkeeper] responsible for them. Mark me, Fetohep. The difficulty is only that two <Mythical Quests> have been completed as-of-yet, and the rewards not widely known. When a <Legendary Quest> is fulfilled…then you shall see the value of it.”
He had no doubt of that, but he still smiled until the Quarass eyed him and then developed a blandly cool expression.
“Upon that note…Germina has improved greatly. Alked Fellbow might well attest to the rising fare of my citizens. I have begun educating them formally to far higher degrees. Mine shall not be a kingdom of [Assassins] alone.”
“Wise of you, Quarass.”
“Mm, yes, well, hiring so many [Teachers] from abroad and constructing buildings not of temporary mud costs the earth. Hellios has the stone, but if Medain is so generous this month, perhaps it might be better spent in a poor nation such as mine?”
Fetohep’s smile guttered out, and his eyes flashed.
“A sizable donation to a neighbor, even one I hold in such high esteem as Germina.”
“It would be a token of great worth, and we would praise Khelt constantly. I did mention how well I spoke in your defense, did I not?”
She fluttered eyelashes at him, and Fetohep spoke icily.
“As High King Perric has continued his tributes, I suppose it may be sent.”
“Your largesse, Fetohep, is remembered. And three times the regular amount will sate Germina’s hunger for knowledge quite well!”
She instantly bowed her head, mockingly like Perric, and Fetohep snapped.
“How did you know—”
His head snapped around for that damn Garuda Courier, but she was already out of the palace, despite the largesse of His Majesty of Khelt. The Quarass gave Fetohep an innocent gaze as he stewed there.
“It does not come from Khelt’s coffers—”
“Yes, yes. Take it.”
She nodded carefully as Fetohep drummed his fingers on the armrest. Good mood gone. After a moment, the Quarass coughed.
“I believe the [Farmer] you requested is not necessary, Fetohep.”
“The farmer? Ah, for Colovt’s fields.”
“Yes…he has uncovered his answer, I think. If a solution is still lacking, I could of course provide some consultation, but the [Druids] are not fools.”
That was how she lived. Constantly making herself useful. But Fetohep disliked threats in any way. He spoke, tone severe.
“I shall inquire if you are needed. Good day, Quarass.”
She nodded, opening her mouth for a comment, but forbade it as he cut the connection. Thence Fetohep sat a while.
Annoyed.
 
——
 
Adventurer Frieke was also unhappy and stressed when she woke with the knowledge of Khelt’s predicament in her. But she was always sort of unhappy and stressed, so knowing she actually had something to be worried about made her rather peppy.
She cooked some salmon for herself and Konska on her magical stove, and they were just about to set off upon their day when there was a knock at the door. Frieke’s face fell. She paused, then came that voice.
“Adventurer Frieke? It is I, your neighbor—”
“Mistreq. Another insect?”
He wore that same appalled expression as he came to her door and shudderingly pointed. This time, it was just on the wall of their apartments. Frieke tossed it at Konska, who obligingly crunched it up, and Mistreq avoided gazing at her.
“Thank you, Adventurer. I swear…there’s so many. I saw ants on a table at a restaurant. Do you—do you think we’ve been cursed?”
She gave him a serious look, biting her tongue on the things she could say, and especially because there was a shred of truth in his worries.
The undead are—
“They’re certainly big…bugs, Mistreq, but it’s the spring. It’s not bad to me, but I understand Khelt is different.”
“It is! I don’t know how you can handle them! I—thank you. Everyone in my apartment is going to the palace later today. The Sereptian Plaza, rather.”
“Oh? For what?”
“To petition His Majesty, of course. This is intolerable. We know his focus has been—elsewhere, but if the undead are being used to manage New Jecrass, some must come back! Else we will be buried by insects before long!”
She realized he was determined, and with the horrible insect gone, several other neighbors had come out and were nodding. Frieke eyed Konska and bit her lip on an admonition not to.
“Er, I may be busy, but I am with you in spirit, isn’t that right, Konska?”
The bird made a vomiting sound which Mistreq took as encouragement. He tried to pat Konska on the head, and the bird leaned out of the way. Frieke? She felt her stomach aching as the man excused himself to wash his hands and smiled.
“I knew it was too good to be true.”
Konska eyed her and pecked Frieke on the head hard.
 
——
 
It was an unenviable task, but Frieke the Falcon realized she could both satisfy her duty to Khelt and her heroine, Satar, in two moves.
She was documenting Khelt as it was. Or rather, the woes of Khelt.
It wasn’t like she was going to send all this confidential information to Satar now. But a written history from someone on the ground was very important! Frieke fancied she might earn a place in Satar’s history, which was apparently a modern snapshot of the world.
Frieke had upgraded from [Message] spell to an actual [Communication] spell via scrying orbs to bypass the nosy [Mage], and Satar herself had time for a meeting with her that morning.
“Named-rank Adventurer Frieke!”
“Y-you know me, Shaman Satar?”
“Of course! You were on television, and you are a Named-rank adventurer. I am so honored by your help, and your copied texts were amazing! Thank you for helping with my project. Projects, I should say. My ‘State of the World’ anthology will draw from many contributors like you giving their honest perspectives on your nation.”
“I may have to delay my full piece, Satar. I am not sure how much is allowed to be sent, but I assure you, I’m working on it—”
Satar took Frieke’s apologies with a smile and waved it off.
“This is quite understandable, Frieke. My goal is to have everyone prepare an accounting of their nations and the world as they see it, then send in submissions. A year’s worth of context, so it would not even be needed now.”
Oh, that worked. Frieke might still have to censor some, but she could save it, and the project made the aspiring [Historian] smile. In fact, Satar was just as excited in a way that made Konska try to nap under one wing. History nerds.
“I actually gained another Skill in that vein, Adventurer Frieke, just last night! [Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]. Some kind of fame-Skill! I hope to reach out to some experts. Not Krsysl Wordsmith—”
They both had a huge laugh about that. Frieke had forgotten that rather infamously biased Drake was still alive, but she supposed he hadn’t been that old when he’d written his Antinium War works and the other books, which had decreased in authenticity…she nodded.
“I promise to give a good accounting of Khelt, then, Satar.”
“Thank you! Now, if I may, I have some example texts I’m sure you can source to understand what I’m searching for in terms of perspective, and if you had time to interview anyone…I can copy these over via the Mage’s Guild if needed to spare you the effort.”
 
——
 
That was the fun part for Frieke. The less-fun part was actually seeing the issues of Khelt as something to document, because for the first time ever, they had bugs.
It really wasn’t bad. By her standards, it was the cleanest city she had ever been in, and only the presence of bugs at all was freaking out the citizens of various cities across Khelt, but King Fetohep had been unable to continue manually managing his skeletons.
And that was the issue. Frieke stood in the throne room, listening and taking notes, as Fetohep held audience with Pewerthe, Frieke, Farmer Colovt, and a [Druid]. The King of Khelt was leaning forwards on his throne.
“You have found the issue, Colovt? Truly?”
“Yes, Your Majesty! The secret behind the crops that would not go beyond flowering is, well—I feel a failure as a [Farmer], but the [Druids] picked out the issue after less than half a day! Druid Meeles, if you would?”
It was the flower-druid buzzing with insects that Pewerthe had met. He was not popular in the capital city at the moment, but he spread his arms and bowed before Fetohep.
“The answer, Your Majesty, is obvious! I do not know why the skeletons have forgotten to do this—”
Everyone stirred as Pewerthe and Frieke exchanged glances, but the [Druid] went on happily as a butterfly landed on a shoulder-blossom.
“—but what the flowers lack is sex!”
King Fetohep of Khelt sat there, immobile, as everyone stared at the [Druid]. Colovt stopped smiling and nudged the [Druid].
“Meeles, perhaps more delicately—”
“Er…what do you mean by intercourse, Druid?”
Fetohep spoke like a man far at sea, wading through waters he really hoped were just water. Unfortunately, the [Druid] went on, beaming.
“Oh, it’s called other things. Pollination or whatnot, I’ve heard it said. But I know sex when I see it, Your Majesty. You see, most plants need to give each other pollen—that is much like what sperm is to other species. The way they do that is via my little friends, who are exiled from almost every city in Khelt! And everyone makes such a fuss over you, don’t they?”
He raised a butterfly to his face and tickled its wings, and Fetohep kept staring.
“Insects.”
Colovt jumped in desperately.
“Er, they bring pollen from plant to plant, Your Majesty. Which I did not know and, apparently, the skeletons had done up till now!”
“Truly?”
“They are the most advanced undead in the world. I have seen them harvest and mill plants without any direction, Your Majesty. A [Necromancer] who visited here remarked on it, once. He said that the best skeleton he could make could barely perform one or two tasks before needing direction. One need but speak and a skeleton can transport goods across a complicated route, bind and splint an injury—”
Anything a person could. They had been able to do that. Fetohep’s eye-flames diminished as Colovt hesitated, unwilling to say the rest.
“—They must have failed to recall this instruction, but the Farming Golems have similar functions, some of them. However, the main way to do this would be insects, as Druid Meeles says. But if you command the skeletons to do this pollination—”
Fetohep lifted a hand and turned to Meeles.
“I see the error, and perhaps it would be…better to make use of acceptable…insects. They are required? There is no spell or other method by which these plants reproduce? As for the pollen, I understand this is how they reproduce, but it is not, in fact, like sex at all.”
He was both warring with the need to create crops and his horror over the sex part, but the [Druid] shook his head.
“Oh, it may appear less graphic to you, Your Majesty, but insects eat the nectar of plants by which to spread the pollen. They burrow, squirm, writhe about—and if you’ve ever seen an orgy—”
“And this is consumed?”
Fetohep’s look of horror turned to the other mortals, and Pewerthe coughed.
“I don’t think it’s quite the same, Your Majesty. Especially since I do not think of it in those terms.”
“No one wants to think of vegetables as children or people. But what is a baby carrot if not—”
At this point Colovt threw an elbow hard enough to take out Meeles for a moment. He spoke to Fetohep.
“I can grow the plants with these…insects if I must, Your Majesty. The [Druids] say some insects are best for each type of plant. But, ah—the skeletons?”
Fetohep sat as Frieke took notes in her journal, and she saw Colovt’s expression of confusion and dismay as Fetohep replied slowly.
“Send for more insects, Druid Meeles. The skeletons are—occupied, Farmer Colovt. It seems insects are both necessity and curse. But surely, if they merely occupy Farmer Colovt’s fields, they would remain there? I am well aware that individuals who are permitted such creatures, like the [Druids] of Losht, keep their familiars in check, but wild insects are a different matter. How fast and far do such bugs spread?”
Here, even Druid Meeles lost his smile, and he exchanged a glance with Pewerthe and Frieke.
No one really wanted to tell Fetohep the bad news. And it got worse when Fetohep of Khelt heard a name, a title upon his doorstep he had vague recollections of. A man who called himself…
A [Prophet].
 
——
 
ᴛʜᴇɴ ʜᴇ ʟᴏᴏᴋᴇᴅ ᴜᴘ ᴀɴᴅ ᴋɴᴇᴡ ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴀ ɢᴏᴅ.
In His Ignorance, He Who Had Doubted Believed. So He Spoke the Lord’s Prayer.
It came unto him, a revelation of the covenant of the Lord our God and the [Prophet], who was first of the [Faithful] who stepped forwards onto the burning sands of Chandrar as the Prophet Moses had once done upon his pilgrimage. A test set unto the faithless.
Yet lo, each trial that he underwent only proved His presence was real, and the flock came to him, first one, then by handfuls, until it was a mighty army who chanted the Name and the Words of the holy book.
They marched out of the nation of Litigred, whose ears were too deaf to know the truth, and through the nations of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Scaied, Illivere, and in each one found the faithful among the ignorant, much as angels had once saved the worthy from Sodom and Gomorrah. Yet wrath did not fall from the skies upon these indolent, heathen Stitch-folk with their deceptive, ever-changing faces and blaspheming tongues.
—no matter how much he prayed—
Yet by then, the People of God were a vast herd who went northwards, avoiding the King of Destruction’s meaningless wars, to seek new peoples and lands receptive to the word of the New Bible as set down by the [Prophet]’s own hands; a revision of thirty-one times thus far, each edition bound and cared for like unto a Relic by the People of God, whom he had named.
And they went to Medain, which was rich enough but whose High King was a dangerous man, his soldiers too willing to clash with the People of God. Despite their levels, the Prophet prayed on the next course of action and determined Medain was not his people’s chosen land. But Khelt…Khelt was a worthy foe. A just foe.
He had nightmares about the six beings who had laughed at him, those rotting corpses. Those filthy…those evil…
Were they devils? He didn’t know. He wished he’d recalled more passages from the Good Book, but he could only use what his [Eidetic Memory: Scripture] gave him. Even with it, sometimes the passages escaped him and he’d bolt upright in the night, writing feverishly, and his faithful would notice and gather around and pray.
He wished he’d studied…what was it? Dante’s Inferno or something? Harvey didn’t remember. Sometimes, he felt like he was the Prophet of God, the powerful man who led these people with their insane powers and could almost—almost divide the sea himself. Then sometimes he was Harvey Glastone again, and his faith wavered, and he—
ʜᴇ ꜰᴇʟᴛ ᴛʜᴇ ʟɪɢʜᴛ ᴇᴛᴇʀɴᴀʟ ꜱʜɪɴᴇ ᴅᴏᴡɴ ᴜᴘᴏɴ ʜɪᴍ ᴀɴᴅ ꜱᴄᴏʀᴄʜ ʜɪꜱ ᴜɴᴡᴏʀᴛʜʏ ꜱᴏᴜʟ ᴀɴᴅ ᴋɴᴇᴡ ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴛʜᴇ ᴅɪᴠɪɴᴇ. ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴊᴜᴅɢᴇᴍᴇɴᴛ, ᴀɴᴅ ᴀʟʟ ᴛʜᴏꜱᴇ ᴡʜᴏ ᴡᴇʀᴇ ᴜɴᴡᴏʀᴛʜʏ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ᴅɪᴇ. ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴏʀʟᴅ ʜɪꜱ ᴛᴇꜱᴛ. ʜɪꜱ ꜰᴀɪᴛʜ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɴᴏᴛ ʏɪᴇʟᴅ.
The [Prophet] was this man. Like all men destined for greatness, he had moments of weakness. But the Lord was his Savior, and he prayed.
In this world, his prayers were answered. Unlike home. What else did that mean but God?
Harvey just wished…
He could hear the voice. Sometimes, he thought he heard it when he was deep in prayer, kneeling, the urging of his soul to do battle against Khelt, to take his people here or there. But he wished the voice were louder. To drown the doubts.
He didn’t know. He did not doubt, as they came to Khelt’s borders, the rightness of trying to unseat the King of Khelt. That man was a horror; he had burned brave, glorious [Knights] that were like Crusaders into ash before the Prophet could speak to them. He was an undead, an abomination, and faith would destroy him.
No…that was not what the Prophet doubted. Be it so foolish of him, sometimes he gazed upon his flock, the People of God, who were now over twelve thousand strong, an army who sustained themselves only on the manna that they created, who had levels in excess of Level 30 and were closing on his own Level 39 [Prophet of the Holy People] class—or perhaps exceeding it—and this would be fine.
He could be second-best to another with true faith, he could. He was no warrior like some of his followers, such as Lazimeh, Izreal, Marrieh, and so on, who were truly fearsome in his eyes, true zealots.
But sometimes, the Prophet wondered if this flock was the right one. No, surely it was. All peoples could find God. In time, when they reached other nations, other continents, he simply reasoned there would be more Humans.
Fewer…
Stitch-folk.
 
——
 
The People of Zeikhal were, by rough counts, around 60% Stitch-folk and predominantly Hemp. Most Stitch-folk were majority Hemp, which made sense to the Prophet, but his words spoke to the Hemp in a way they did not Cotton or Silk.
After all, the higher castes did not need nor long for a loving God. His people—did. When he spoke to them of his first sermons, that of Moses freeing the [Slaves] of Egypt, the simplest story that he knew, most took him as anti-Roshal, which he reasoned he must be.
But he had been cautious not to make an enemy of the Slavers of Roshal at the start, for they were everywhere across Chandrar. Nor…A’ctelios, not yet. Vengeance would come but they were weak yet, like the Hebrews crossing the desert. He had been alone in the beginning.
Yet it had been the Hemp who had listened, asked questions, and seen their own struggle reflected in his words. Marrieh had been one of the first, though of course, she had gone by another name then. First she had been a follower, marvelling over the Miracles he performed, just as he did.
Faith made manifest. From the day he had come here, appearing in the dry desert and nearly died that first long day before falling to his knees, dehydrated, tongue parched, and whispered the Lord’s Prayer only to find the oasis appearing before his feet, then a piece of bread falling from the heavens—he had known faith.
So had she, in time. She called it a power beyond magic, something she could not explain except as an act of God. Even the word ‘God’ had hurt her at first until he had filled her heart up with the stories he had spoken so unpolishedly at first.
Genesis, John, or Luke—they did run together, Old Testament, New—but the stories he had yawned over in church became something brighter in her. Her faith was like a mirror, and it reflected into him.
So he had baptized her and let her take a name that was close to the ones he knew, but not quite the same. Perhaps it would be sacrilegious to let her carry ‘Mary’ as a name, though…Mary was a common name in his homeworld.
Marrieh fit her. After that, well, they had roamed. Picking up converts that had come and gone, growing in levels, fleeing people bent on imprisoning or questioning them, and they might have starved or fallen afoul of monsters or [Bandits]—which Chandrar had in plenty—but for the one thing that made all the difference.
They had faith. And faith…could do everything. Or at least, all the big things.
 
——
 
When the Prophet awoke, it was bright.
It was always bright. He removed the sleeping mask he’d taken to wearing in bed and dressed himself in the white robes of his station, sighing as the silk clung to his skin. Silk, a luxury even in Chandrar which made and coveted the stuff. Stitch-folk used it for their bodies, so having robes of it was a sign of station. They were white robes embroidered with a cross on both arms and down his front. There had been talk of giving him a hat, such as the papal one, but they were not Catholic, and he had imagined it would chafe.
God was many things to the Prophet, but Harvey reckoned he wouldn’t test him that much. That was a joke. He’d said it to his flock, and no one had laughed.
Work on the sermon. A bit more humor sometimes, if only to lighten the sheer intensity of their faith. It was always about the sermon. He gave one twice daily, sometimes more if the moment called for it. And the Prophet was already thinking of it, because of course, it should always be new.
He paged through the handwritten New Bible he had made, but he knew the words by heart and wished he had a single copy of the bible in any of the countless formats from Earth. He was sure this one had—holes. And he was resistant to anyone adding new gospels, however much they begged, and some had written pages upon pages of genuinely good words. He let them print the pages as other books, but not add to this.
They could believe what they wanted, but only an Apostle or Prophet could write verse and scripture. If he found a copy of the Bible anywhere—on a smartphone, perhaps, he would use that and nothing else.
You see, when he was Harvey, not the Prophet, the man knew he was an imperfect vessel of faith. He was! He had doubts. Sometimes, he felt like Marrieh and the others shone brighter than he did. Certainly, their levels were higher among a select few.
He had been given a divine mandate, but oh, wasn’t he allowed to be weak of heart? He tried. That was his salvation, and when kingdom came, he hoped that was how he was judged. So he knelt to pray and thought of the sermon before rising as his stomach growled.
After all, breakfast was but a thought away.
The camp of the People of God was sandblown tents; the Great Desert blew in this close, and it got everywhere, cue the Star Wars joke no one would get. Harvey missed movies. He missed ice cream, video games, school—he wished he could just visit the mall and stand in the air conditioning for a minute. Did they still do that?
His skin was tanned compared to how it had used to be, fair and freckled, and he knew he was taller. Thinner from lots of days of hunger, despite their abilities. And more…imposing? Certainly, he thought his skin looked better in spite of the lack of moisturizer and sunscreen.
His class changed him, much like the faithful. It wasn’t so much in features like high-level [Warriors] were all muscle or how he’d noticed some people were more beautiful or so on. It was more…their faces.
There was a wealth of intensity in the eyes, the voice. They spoke with conviction, those ringing tones like he’d once dreamed angels spoke in and like his pastor had used to shout the good word. That was faith.
There was always a watch in the camps; men and women with robes similar to the Prophet’s—if often patched and stained since white was a hard color to wear in the desert—armed with spears or clubs; few swords or more refined weapons.
They were poor, surviving on donations and the like. Sometimes, there were windfalls—there had been that chest of jewelry that the Courier—what was his name?—had given over. It had paid for more wagons, the Prophet’s robes, a Chest of Holding, and more. It could have been a crown, but he had been persuaded to give to the people. Which was righteous.
Luxuries. The Prophet wanted more. His people deserved more. He hesitated as he left his tent, and the nearest sentry bowed to him—they’d wanted to stand guard right in front of his tent, but they had made him too self-conscious. Once he had a soundproofed tent, maybe.
Is it greed, a cardinal sin, or faith? Again, he doubted. A common thing. Was he greedy, or did he wish for more for his people? One was a virtue, the other a sin.
Greed, a good topic for the sermon. Now he had it. The Prophet nodded to the sentry, who made a cross with his palms across his chest. Another thing that they had picked up he did not teach them. Someone was already striding towards him. Izreal, who was another Stitch-man. He smiled and had all the energy the Prophet wished he had.
A huge scar across one cheek that hurt to look at; he claimed it was well, and he’d repair his face in time. He’d earned it fighting the Golden Ranks of Medain as they fled. A Gold-rank adventurer had given it to him, but Izreal had gotten back up and taught them a lesson about the People of God’s faith.
“Your Holiness, what is today’s direction?”
“Breakfast, I believe. Then the sermon.”
“Your words alone could fill our stomachs, Prophet.”
“Hah.”
Only, Izreal meant it, so the Prophet abandoned his smile and lifted a hand palm upwards as more gathered. This he was used to. He was never alone outdoors; he always had his bodyguards and people listening to him.
“Faith may fill the heart, but it is our duty as shepherds to fill the stomach of our flock, Izreal. Children first, for they are our treasure and blessing of God. So, let us pray for our daily bounty.”
He led them forwards towards the light, which made the camp dazzle, even at a distance. It kept away most monsters, and it was, in fact…
Well. A miniature sun. A glowing orb of yellow light, like a [Light] spell but which had no mana that any [Mage] could find, much to their incredulity. It was one of the true powers of the People of God, and when he stood before it, all the Prophet’s doubts slid away. Or most.
[Combined Miracle: The Light of Faith].
It lit up the landscape and provided many features. Bugs seemed to flee the light, even ones like moths. Wounds seemed to heal without potions, and it banished fear or grief if you stared into it long enough. It was a warm embrace and a weapon if need be; it was blinding to the non-faithful if called upon.
Over a hundred people knelt around the Prophet in a ring as he clasped his hands together. He bowed his head and, as ever, peeked upwards and saw a flicker in the air. A flash—and even now, even now—
His heart leapt to see it.
[Manna From the Heavens]. A piece of bread floated downwards. He caught it, and it was light and smelled fragrant as he broke the fresh bread open, and the white insides puffed with steam slightly in this cold air.
A new feature, temperature. It used to be neutral in temperature and a lot smaller. The Prophet saw others catching pieces of bread and spoke.
“We thank the Lord our God for this meal.”
“Amen.”
They might have eaten there and then, but he coughed, glanced to the side—and led the way to a pot of bubbling stew. A bowl was handed to him as Izreal began serving the food a [Faithful Cook] was producing, and only then did the Prophet begin eating after dipping his bread into the bowl and taking a bite.
The bread was filling, could be produced daily, and accounted for most of the People of God’s rations. However, at his insistence, the Prophet had demanded fruits and other foods be prepared to go along with the bread.
For two reasons. Firstly, during the first year of his leadership, he’d noticed a rising increase in bleeding gums and had realized that manna from the heavens the bread might be—but it didn’t prevent scurvy.
Second—he sighed as he ate more of the soup than bread, letting others devour the huge loaf he’d been given.
You could really get sick of eating this every day. He couldn’t imagine forty years of this.
 
——
 
Soup with bread. Honey on bread. Dates with bread. Bread sandwiches. Toasted bread. The People of God really objected to crumbling the bread up and using it like that, but the Prophet resolved to preach on the virtues of a good breaded cutlet—once they had enough food.
They had a small herd of animals, but again, the issue was the size of the People of God’s camps kept increasing while the money they had to clothe and provide for so many didn’t exactly match that.
His camp was in fact one of eighteen spaced around him given their sheer size, but the central camp was always swamped because of the morning sermon; [Priests] and [Acolytes] would carry his words to the other camps, and then they would pray before moving.
It made the People of God sort of slow to move in the mornings, but they levelled. Oh, how they levelled.
[Priests], [Acolytes] for preaching and services. [Faithbearers] who carried anything from supplies to the wounded or disabled on their backs. [Devout Warriors], a basic class of those who could fight that became [Battle Clergy]. [Prayer Healers] who could do what potions now could not—one of the reasons why his people were often first allowed into settlements. [Pious Preachers] who spread the good word, [Scripture Carriers] who used divine passages to do magic akin to [Mages]—
Oh yes, the People of God had capabilities. Healing as well as other miracles, though healing was the most universal power. It made them incredibly valuable, and the Prophet reasoned they might well establish themselves as a rich and powerful group on that alone…if they took money for their deeds.
They did not. It was something he’d wrestled with, prayed on for over a year now, and it made him unhappy because they could charge money, but that went against, well, everything Jesus of Nazareth had ever done.
Laying on hands was a gift, and from the day Marrieh had learned to cleanse wounds, they had accepted no coins for it. Gratitude, yes, but…and now the practice was set in stone, which was charitable and good, yes!
But it would really help if they asked for coins rather than let it be a donations thing. It was one of the Prophet’s private sins. Greed. It plagued him along with lust—and oh, sometimes…
“Prophet, the congregation awaits you.”
“Thank you, Yirene.”
He smiled at the Stitch-woman who bowed to him and wondered if they should spend their limited coin on newer robes, even if only the clergy. Because dead gods other than the Holy Trinity—Yirene’s robes were sheer and clung to her form.
And she was a Silk Stitch-woman. Beautiful. She might have renounced her possessions and sold what she had to join his group—and she hadn’t been that rich, living in exile, it seemed, in a distant Nerrhavian city—but she was attractive.
He hadn’t slept with her. Hadn’t, but dreamed of it on some nights and thought she would be receptive—except, of course, he was a man of god, and the clergy did not have those relationships as far as he could remember. Which was one of the things he’d preached for his flock, and they were fastidious about their vows of abstinence.
He turned from her to the many faithful. Marrieh met his eyes for a second, and he hesitated. She knew him long enough to know what he was thinking of, and she did not narrow her eyes, but just gave him an earnest look.
Surely you would not. She gave Yirene a cool glance as the Stitch-woman, seeming genuinely confused by the sometimes-hostility she got from Marrieh, bowed and retreated. The Prophet cleared his throat as he swept his gaze over the many kneeling people.
“Lead us not into temptation…let us pray, my people. And it is temptation I wish to speak of today.”
The words came to him automatically; he had learned to give sermons constantly, so he just needed one or two ideas he could speak on. Sometimes, they were good, sometimes, they were bad, but there was always the sermon, and this one felt—decent.
“Greed is one of the sins that is the downfall of all mortal men. Greed is the weight that makes it more difficult than threading the eye of a needle for a man to reach Heaven. Yet, by that same token, is it not righteous to honor thyself, thy neighbor, and thy God? In the Old Testament, it is written that sacrifices of meat, vegetables, and bounty pleased the Lord. Thus, it is not about the mere acquisition of coin or money, but in whose service it is spent.”
He saw some nodding, some listening, others just watching him with rapt eyes. The Prophet went on, and now he pointed.
“Yonder lies an example of material unwisely spent. It is known across Chandrar that Khelt is rich, but it is a richness hoarded and used only for their own. This we have come to see with our own eyes and judge, just as we are all judged by God. We are his will and people—”
And at least one of them was owed this. His eyes stole to a man vibrating with emotion. A former Kheltian, Adoive, who had once been exiled. Or rather, left and found he was unable to return.
He was not the most devout of men, but he had told the Prophet of Khelt, and it had seemed a hedonistic, wasteful place. When the Prophet had gazed upon an image of Fetohep of Khelt…
Undead abominations. He had encountered them, not just the ones at the Solstices, and the world should be purged of them. Faith did purge them, and it was the most good and true thing he felt. Undead—he remembered stories on Earth of how the cross had the power to repel vampires and kill supernatural spirits, and it was true here.
He shuddered for a second as he remembered the nightmares that sometimes woke him, crying out for salvation—
 
——
 
They laughed at him. Six of them, leaving, returning, plaguing him that long night. He knelt, praying in the camp, but the People of God were silent. He was alone, and they whispered.
“You pray to someone who does not stand here. We are what you worship, in the flesh. Take my hand and be first of my faithful.”
“No, take mine.”
“Take mine.”
Hands, grasping for him, then retreating across a line he drew in the sand. His prayers grew louder, and they grimaced. The man with the beard tried to speak over him.
“I am T—the leader of men. Look upon me. Would you pit this invisible being against me? Were I to wear my true flesh, I would slay those of my kin without score as I once did.”
Lies. Ignore him. Fake idols. Harvey prayed louder, trying to drown them out, wishing—where was the sign? The falling angel? Something, give him a sign—
Was this the Devil that had plagued Jesus in the desert? Six.
Six. Of course, the number of hell itself. The shadow said nothing, but the intelligent man, who was like a [Mage], just sat back on his heels, amused.
“He won’t listen. Look at him. He is not a perfect believer, but he has enough here…do you want power, young man? Love? Wealth?”
“I am love. Take my hand.”
A dancing man. Then an amused huntress. An old crone. The shadow, pressing forwards and again repulsed by his faith. The three-in-one came closer as his voice grew hoarse, a rotting face across three ages.
“I do not see your ___, boy.”
She spoke and winced, as if that alone hurt her, but her eyes bored into him, and he tried not to listen, but her serpent’s tongue was too loud, his faith too weak.
“If he exists, let him come forth and it be war. No? Perhaps he is a coward. Or perhaps he cannot enter this world. Your faith is rewarded because of the rules we set in place. Or perhaps…you are creating Him.”
Ignore her. Ignore her. The woman laughed, a terrible cackle.
“I sense your doubt. Tell me, boy. Have you seen a trueness of your worship? Even once? Look at me. I am real. Which would you rather believe in?”
“You’re dead. Dead and rotting. Who would believe in that?”
He stopped praying and shot those words back at her. All six recoiled and, he thought, were truly stung by his response. The three-in-one drew back, and after a moment, the bearded man whispered.
“We have endured death itself, boy. Come back from wounds that have felled all others. A world’s sundering could not kill us. We have striven with our own kind, and we are the greatest six. What is that, if not your answer?”
“My God has no end nor beginning. He is invincible, and my faith in him shall not waver…”
He cried the words back at them, and the bearded man’s eyes narrowed. He was the first to go, turning on his heels.
“For that, first of this world’s new faithful, I shall enjoy slaying another of my kind. When you and I meet in the flesh, I will allow you a second chance to see the truth. I, too, am merciful. We shall see who triumphs, your invisible ruler of all…or me.”
“Or me.”
The young huntress laughed, and the others rose one by one. It was the intelligent man who remained, smiling, peering at Harvey. He said one last thing.
“Consider it, faithful child. Just speak our names and pray to us. Could we not be allies? I would work alongside your great ___.”
He waited, and Harvey bared his teeth.
“I do not worship false idols. There is only one.”
This time, he rebuked the stranger, and the light of his faith grew and hurt the clever man, who retreated, step by step. The wise man blew out his cheeks, annoyed.
“What a tedious little religion. I too shall remember that. And remember my servants shall destroy you. When the armies of Khelt rise—”
He was fleeing, despite his dire threats, and he grinned as Harvey shouted prayers, waving the cross he had fashioned, and then he knew the name of his enemy.
 
——
 
Memory. The horror of that first time was nothing to the second. The second…the Prophet realized he’d stopped talking.
Everyone was on their feet, staring at him. Marrieh was pushing forwards.
“Harvey…?”
“Damnation.”
He bellowed the word, and they recoiled. But the Prophet swept around and pointed, chest heaving.
“The King of Khelt is no man threading the eye of the needle. He has passed beyond this world we strive in and has been found wanting. That is undeath. He consorts with the other six—the—the devils of this world themselves. He is a King of Greed, and we go now to his borders not for our own richness, not for mere wealth or what we think we are owed.”
He stared at Adoive in contempt, and the man flinched backwards. The Prophet rasped.
“We go to test our faith against evil. We are a flock, a herd that God embraces and tends to, and yet we must also be warriors. So arm yourselves, children. Ready your faith, for it shall be tested. But do not waver, for ours is the Kingdom of Heaven, and we shall claim it.”
This long wandering in the wilderness might be over. Or perhaps they would fail, but the Prophet clutched at his chest as his heart beat with terror, determination, and wrath. If they failed, it was his faith that wavered, nothing else.
Oh Lord, give me strength.
They came to Khelt’s borders at midday. And there, the Prophet worked his wonders.
 
——
 
“A Prophet of…the People of God.”
Fetohep said the word carefully. It was difficult, but he said it, and he did not like that. Not one bit.
“Yes, Your Majesty. They have sent a missive requesting—demanding admission. They claim sanctuary by right of being the chosen people of…someone called ‘God’. And they have a member of Khelt. Adoive.”
“Adoive. I recall him. I see.”
It was not the first time a former member of Khelt had tried to return. It was rare for them to leave, but Fetohep allowed it, so long as they knew they could not come back. He made—well, he made exceptions.
For children who had not been allowed to choose. If the members of Khelt proved they could give back, he let them return. It was not nearly as stringent as newcomers returning, but nevertheless, there were a number who left and could not regain entry.
It gave him no pleasure, but his people could not be allowed to move back and forth so easily. The borders were closed to all but the likes of Alked for good reason. Pestilence, infiltration, the list grew on and on.
Adoive…Fetohep knew each subject who had left and whether they were living or dead. He murmured.
“Adoive was always a troubled boy. A boy can be granted leniency. A man cannot. His conduct towards other members of Khelt was inappropriate. He was censured, then correction attempted. Rather than allow it, he left.”
In every society, there were people who refused to follow the rules. What could one do in Khelt where every citizen was cherished? Well, if one acted in violence or other means against one’s neighbors, they would be corrected. Watched, their behaviors monitored. If they could not learn, they would be placed under house arrest, monitored and restricted. A kind of imprisonment perhaps, but one with a way out. They just had to earn it.
It was actually far easier to correct issues stemming from addiction or something intrinsic that medicine or magic could cure. Those who were simply stubborn and refused to change, well…Adoive had left.
He had not liked what he found outside. He had sent hundreds of letters begging to be allowed in, and Fetohep had asked what he would bring back to Khelt. He had received insults, threats, silence, a demand for something Adoive felt he was owed.
It was not the first time this had happened. Other members of Khelt had bought mercenaries, hired adventurers, even, sometimes, convinced rulers of nations to take their side.
No one had ever won their way into Khelt by force of arms. Fetohep could sense the People of God at his borders; he had some awareness of a sizable number of people intruding over the no-man’s land just west of Germina, along the great desert.
“Impressive that they reached this far without trespassing into Germina. The Quarass would take measures against them if they were unruly. This Prophet and this People. Are they dangerous?”
The servant giving Fetohep the report checked their notes.
“Very, Your Majesty. They clashed with Medain and fomented unrest there and numerous kingdoms. But the High King was unable to arrest the Prophet. First the local Watch attempted it, then the army. Then the Golden Ranks were deployed—some of them. The People of God defeated each group and escaped. Some were apprehended and put to death—leading to more fighting—”
High King Perric. Fetohep sighed.
Adoive, you have allied yourself with lions who I doubt care for you at all. Your chances of returning home grow even slimmer for this. He waved a hand.
“Enough. This ‘request’ of theirs was brazen?”
“Your Majesty wishes to see it?”
Fetohep swept the paper up, then his eyes flashed. Beyond brazen. This Prophet demanded Fetohep allow them in, give them succor, and present himself before the ‘judgemental light of the Lord’ to ascertain the nature of Fetohep’s sins and seek ‘redemption’.
He cast the missive aside.
“Bold, but I will not slaughter these People of God…so long as they do not try Khelt’s patience. They shall stop at the border.”
He lifted a hand and in this, at least, he was confident. Weakened Khelt might be, their skeletons damaged. But at least a ragtag group like this…he projected his will to the northern border.
Armies of Khelt. Arise.
 
——
 
They had seemed like blank sands a moment ago. Adoive had been leading the Prophet, pointing towards his home with hope—and trepidation, but the Prophet had not seen the danger of Khelt. Yet as if they had crossed some inviolate threshold, the ground had trembled…
And skeletons arose.
They dug themselves out of the ground, some simply rising upwards, shedding sand in cascades off ancient armor. Clutching weapons still glinting with sharpness, ranks upon ranks of the dead. Rusted blades, mostly, but—
There were so many.
“Dead—”
The Prophet almost said ‘dead gods’, the common epithet of this world. He recoiled as a wall of skeletons rose. First one rank, then two, then…
Six ranks deep, forming a wall of blades that stood silent as the wind blew. The People of God recoiled despite themselves. Here was the might of Khelt.
For all their numbers, and they stood like a sea of people, they were suddenly, accountably, instantly outnumbered four-to-one.
That was the sheer, effortless power of Khelt, and the Prophet’s heart constricted as he saw now why Khelt was considered unassailable even by the King of Destruction.
“God save us. So many.”
Even Izreal trembled a second before his knees locked, and he turned to the Prophet along with everyone else. Which of course made Harvey all the more afraid. But Adoive was confident.
“This is just the outer layer of the dead, Prophet! Mere bones, armed with rust. This is nothing to the legions in their armor! Fetohep insults you, insults us!”
He didn’t fight, and the Prophet’s glower made the man hesitate. He wasn’t the only one; Marrieh strode over. She had naught but a club, but that was unto an artifact in her hands. She murmured.
“If we were to fight this many skeletons, countless of our faithful would die, even with our battleprayers and miracles. I could split them with my Miracle, [Hand of God], but…”
Even her best battle-Miracle would barely clear more than one spot. The Prophet rasped.
“No. We knew this would occur. Adoive…watch him, Izreal. I do not think he is as faithful as he claims to be. Yet prayer has led us here. This is a trial set before us. We shall see if our faith is wanting.”
He was worried. Some of his faithful were with him till the end, but doubt crept into any heart, he well knew. Failure here…
I must have faith. That was his answer; it was always the right answer. It was Lazimeh, armored in a slightly-dented golden chestplate and carrying a sword, who stepped forwards.
“I should go with you, Prophet. Faith should be backed by the hands to deliver it.”
He led the warriors of the faithful, and the Prophet almost said ‘yes’, but one man wouldn’t do much.
I wish we had our own Knights Templar, Crusaders. He envied Terandria with their [Knights], and if only he could convince one knight-order to join him, or any group with wealth…! The Prophet took a breath and spoke before Marrieh could open her mouth.
“No, Lazimeh, this is my test. Am I not the Prophet? If I fail, then we shall know it is not our time.”
And I truly doubt you can do much anyways. The man hesitated, then bowed, and they clasped their hands together as the Prophet walked forwards. He was terrified. The skeletons stood immobile, shoulder-to-shoulder.
They uttered no threats. Spoke not a word. Such was the King of Khelt’s contempt. But as he stepped forwards, blades swept up across their ranks. They waited, eyes glowing countless colors, all staring at him.
Step forward and die, mortal. He wavered, then, his legs shaking upon the hot sands and thought some of his people could see it. Almost, the Prophet backed up. He could not feel his faith—!
But then he glanced back at that light they had brought. At the people who had come speaking the name of God and his wonders, and he thought of the six who swore they would kill the one being who was all that was good and holy in this world.
Some things should die. So, Harvey Glastone closed his eyes and clasped his hands together, and he spoke. There was only one prayer to speak. The one he knew.
“Our Father, who art in Heaven. Hallowed be thy name…”
His was one voice. One—then thousands. The Prophet’s eyes were closed, his body was shaking. He was going to puke. His heart was beating too fast. He could barely stutter.
“…Thy Kingdom come. Thy will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread…”
He heard a chattering now, a terrible clatter of bones. The rasp of metal. And voices wavering. A cry.
“Prophet—!”
One step. The man halted. And his conviction waned. In that moment, his hands unclasped. His body tensed with pure, mammalian fear, and he prepared to run.
I am wrong. I’m—
He did not see the skeletons moving forwards like a breaking wave of bones, mouths open, or how they surged across the dry ground as some of his people quailed. Or hear the King of Khelt’s faint sigh from tens of miles away.
He was just a man. Not an Apostle, not a perfect vessel of faith. Just a man—the Prophet turned to run. Then a glow from behind him caught his eyes. Overwhelmed his vision, and he stood, naked, in front of it.
[The Light of Faith]. The glowing beacon suspended above the praying People of God was shining. It blazed now, a light that was no longer the warm yellow or even white. Something beyond those colors, beyond what he could name.
The radiance bathed the Prophet. Blinded him, as if he were an enemy, and he cried out. He fell to his knees and saw it, then. Something far greater than his mortal flesh and failings. Something belonging to all of them, the people praying with a voice like thunder. And it pieced his frail, doubting heart.
For a second, he believed.
ʜᴇ ꜱᴀᴡ ᴛʜᴇ ʟɪɢʜᴛ. ᴀɴᴅ ɪᴛ ᴡᴀꜱ ɢʟᴏʀɪᴏᴜꜱ.
And Lo—a ray of divinity covered the skeletons who would smite the Prophet, and they halted. Stumbled and glanced up. One raised a hand as if to cover its eyes and stared into the heart of faith. Another reached out, wonderingly, dropping the rusted hilt of the sword it carried. Yet another turned to flee—
The flames went out in their sockets. The skeletons fell, each one collapsing to bones, which turned to dust. The first rank, then the second, vaporizing as the light shone past them, a ray which swept the undead as the Prophet knelt, spreading his arms out, weeping. The undead vanished.
 
——
 
Upon his throne, Fetohep of Khelt sat up. His glowing eyeflames constricted to pinpoints of alarm.
“No. How—?”
He could not see it. Could not understand. His undead were—vanishing. How? The man was kneeling. Was something—
Then they were surging forwards. More undead began to rise. Fetohep called them skyward, and something—
Something was unmaking them.
 
——
 
“Forwards! We are protected by His light!”
They ran forwards the moment the light burned the first group of undead down. Then, the Prophet saw his people running, the beacon floating with them, and he turned.
Not all of the undead were dying instantly; wherever the ray of light struck, they died instantly, but there were so many, and more were coming—Adoive was screaming.
“Past the borders! He has less past the—”
Izreal, Marrieh, were fighting, running past the pilgrims and battling the undead. Yet thousands were—the Prophet ignored the shouts for him to get back. He pushed away the screaming people and cast around.
“A staff.”
He found a quarterstaff being born aloft by a screaming warrior and took it. Then he began walking forwards. The light followed him. Heedless of the danger, the Prophet began striding forwards, and the undead threw themselves at him, uncomprehending, reaching for him—
Some had bows. Arrows flashed past him, striking some of the People of God, and there were cries, faith. Fighting around him. The Prophet kept walking, eyes fixed on the skeletons as they vanished. He did not waver, even when an arrow struck the side of his head and left a red line across his scalp.
Faith. He had prayed, and there was his answer. He was just—chanting. Chanting, his people realized. Praying out loud. Though he knew not the words, he knew the story.
“Then Moses came to the Red Sea, and the waters were impassable as the Pharaoh’s armies bore down upon him. But he had no fear. He struck the water, staff in hand, and the seas themselves did rise and part—”
The dead vanished to either side of him as he led them forwards, bathed in that holy light. Whether they knew it or not, the People of God who followed him in a great wave were within the radius of the Light of Faith; the undead throwing themselves forward could not breach that undead-purging light.
And so, the Prophet set foot onto hallowed lands that were not his, and in doing so, committed an act of miracles that few forces had ever managed. His people walked across Khelt’s borders, and their faith grew without limit.
The King of Khelt did not understand, for he had no eyes with which to see faith. Later, later, yes, the Prophet who had called himself Harvey would confess his sins in the sermon of the evening.
He would tell them how his own faith had wavered, how he had turned, and how God had shown him the light he did not deserve, and he would pray with them. He would tell them this as he told them to spread the word of faith to the cities, as their grand redemption of Khelt began and they saw the people’s indolence and cravenness and brought the Good Word to them.
For the Prophet was honest in many things. But there was one thing, one thing he would not, could not admit to any of them, and much relieved was he by the robes that he walked with, voluminous silk.
That moment he’d walked through a sea of undead burning in the cleansing fire of faith…he’d been the most erect he’d ever been in his entire life.
 
——
 
The entry of the People of God and the Prophet into Khelt was unremarked upon and not noticed by anyone at first. In time, it would be a moment in history that would be noted down as important, but that was hindsight.
However, there was an event occurring in another continent that had a kind of synchronicity with the Prophet’s actions, though that too was something only a being like the Grand Design might understand.
And it was so unpredicted. It, of course, involved Satar Silverfang, who was humming as she presented herself before her mother, Akrisa Silverfang. Her mother was trying not to be jealous or impressed and acting like a Chieftain.
Cetrule, her partner and the [Shaman] of the tribe, was dead. Akrisa hadn’t appointed a new head [Shaman]; in a sense, they were all one big tribe these days, and Theikha was [Shaman] enough for five. But she was still a mother, and Satar was her daughter.
“So this…Frieke is going to contribute to your work, Satar?”
“Yes, and she even donated gold to the project!”
Satar was exuberant and excited to have a Named-rank want to be on first-name terms with her. Akrisa harrumphed.
“Be careful about owing favors to Named-ranks, Satar. She may be trying to gain information from you.”
“Mother! I mean, Chieftain—she’s a historian!”
“Yes, and so was that fellow from the Blighted Kingdom. They are still people of their nations. Be careful about what you tell her. You are the [Historian] of the Meeting of Tribes, and if you endanger us all, it will be upon your fur.”
The girl visibly wilted at the scolding and glared at her feet. Akrisa felt bad, but she continued.
“You’ve been getting an ego. Don’t growl at me—you know it’s true! I think your class is wonderful, as is your fame, Satar, but I will lecture you like any prodigy in my tribe. You are at risk of endangering others by carelessness!”
“You think I’m a prodigy?”
Satar glanced up shyly; she hadn’t been a great [Shaman], and Akrisa glowered more fiercely.
“Don’t focus on the wrong thing! Satar…listen. How shall I put this?”
She steepled her fingers together and searched for the right words, then made a mistake.
“With great power…comes great responsibility. So you understand, if you said something confidential, like about Adetr’s projects—”
Satar’s cheeks bulged. She tried, she really did, but she started laughing as Akrisa hesitated, then blushed under her fur.
“Mother! You got that from Earth. Did you really just quote—”
“Silence! So what if I did? It is a good line, no? Stop laughing, Satar! I am serious! Stop—”
So much for parental wisdom. Akrisa slunk off after Satar as, thoroughly unchastened, she excused herself. Looking for solace, Akrisa went to one of the huge permanent yurts erected around the vast Earth Tent where the [World of You and Me] was, searching for sympathy from her fellow [Chieftains].
Unfortunately, Orelighn, Eska, and every Gnoll in the tent laughed themselves onto the floor. They were just a bit too immersed in Earth-culture at this point.
Actually, it was something that Gnolls who visited the tribes now camping here remarked upon. There was a mentality, even linguistic shift occurring between Gnolls who constantly went into the simulation of Earth and those who didn’t get what the others were being exposed to. Much less the technological innovation.
Satar nearly laughed herself sick as she got back to her tents, shaking her head. She knew her mother was right in that way parents were, but honestly…
She had so many historical projects going she was always busy these days. Both as a writer and historian, Satar was fulfilled. Of course, she had big questions.
How had their worlds met? What was really going on? But she knew those questions were on the minds of everyone, so she contented herself with the past.
A history of the world would be an amazing work, but Frieke and all the records would be only pieces of the whole puzzle that Satar would painstakingly need to put together. The Gnoll reckoned that a snapshot of the world as it was today would be a simpler project by comparison, and just as valuable. Those were her biggest goals, so she was writing [Messages] to the other contributors and reaching out to other people for help on both projects.
As she’d said to Frieke, she was levelling fast. And the Skill she’d mentioned?
[Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]. She wondered what it did. Because prima facie, it wasn’t that great, right?
No one had ever heard of it, even Shaman Theikha, but she had said it reminded her of [Call for Aid] type Skills. But those either alerted someone at a great distance or brought them closer to help.
What good was it for Satar to just request someone to help on her project? She could do that with [Communication] or [Message] spells.
“It has to be more effective than that. I’ll try it on, um…well, either project will do.”
In fact, Satar had just the candidate. She was writing with another interesting personage, arguably more so than even Frieke, though that would hurt the Dullahan’s feelings.
 
Satar: So you’re willing to contribute your people’s perspectives? Thank you! I’ll send over the materials directly to the Mage’s Guild. Can I confirm your name? Just so I am certain!
Lewdquill: Absolutely. My perspective may be limited to only the Free Antinium, however. It is ‘L-e-w-d-q-u-i-l-l’, no dashes.
Satar: I see. May I ask about the name?
Lewdquill: I write about private parts. I helped write the Antinium Book of Sex.
Satar: May I have a copy?
Lewdquill: I’m very popular with the ladies. Absolutely. If you ever come by Liscor, I’d love to buy you a drink.
 
Flirting with an Antinium was not how she thought she’d start her day, but after a few days in the Earth tent watching movies and having her head exploded by things from that world, Satar also had that adaptability that Liscorians were becoming known for.
 
Satar: I may be able to visit Liscor sometime. If so, I’ll take you up on the offer •̀ᴗ-. Don’t worry about other perspectives. I have several interested Liscorians and even a testimonial from an eyewitness to all the big events that started with Erin Solstice.
Lewdquill: Oho. Who?
Satar: I believe it’s ‘whom’, not to correct you, and it’s a Guardsman Belsc, well, former-guardsman. He’s writing a novel. ‘I Let Her Inn, a Guardsman’s Retrospective on Solstice Events’. I’m going to get a few copies.
Lewdquill: I have no idea who that is, but it sounds hilarious.
Satar: Yes!!! Actually, can I ask you to participate in one more thing with your permission? New Skill I’d like to test out.
Lewdquill: You can test anything out with me, baby.
Lewdquill: I’m sorry, that was a Relc-level line.
Satar: You’re forgiven. Please don’t do it again. I’m going to use [Famous Historian: Request Collaboration] on you. I’d love the Antinium perspective on, well, everything. Your history, your thoughts on the present!
Lewdquill: Sure, that’s cool. We don’t know much history here. Maybe the Armored Queen knows more? Rumor is she tells stories even better than Klbkch.
Satar: I’ll try! Standby!
 
She stood back and pointed at the [Message] scroll, more on instinct than anything else. She had upgraded one of her Skills. Now she had [Bound Item: Journal of the Connected Researcher]. Which meant it had lots of pages she could organize by section for her notes compressed into a tiny tome and a free [Message] page all in one.
Yes, she was levelling like, well, an Earther. Satar beamed as she spoke, trying to sound cool.
“[Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]! Information on the Antinium, please!”
Her book reacted to her Skill. Satar held her breath as a page flipped—
…And nothing happened. After a moment, Satar wrote on the page.
 
Satar: Lewdquill? Are you still there? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’d like to ask about the history of the Antinium if you have a moment. This is Satar Silverfang, [Historian of the World].
 
Nothing. She waited another minute, then flipped the pages back and saw more writing.
 
Lewdquill: Okay, go for it!
Lewdquill: Still engaging the Skill?
Lewdquill: Standing by!
Lewdquill: I’m waiting for you like a Rock Crab waiting for a snack, baby!
Lewdquill: Is this thing on?
Satar: Sorry, I tried the Skill, but it clearly didn’t work on you. Is…do Antinium flirt like that?
Lewdquill: I sure hope not. These are Relc-lines. He used to visit one of the brothels, and all the girls remember his lines and tell each other the best-worst ones.
Satar: I see…I’ll contact you with the information. Thank you for your time, Lewdquill!
Lewdquill: Anytime!
 
A bit disappointed, Satar arranged for another sending of the materials at the Mage’s Guild, and a rather glum Gnoll groaned.
“Satar, do you know how hard it is to send all that to the other [Mages]? They hate copying out that many words! Some just summarize the writing instead of doing it word-for-word! When I got my [Mage] class, I didn’t think this would be my job.”
“Hey, shut it, Rurrin. At least you’ve got magic.”
She poked him with a claw, and the Gnoll groaned.
“Yeah, and I’m now a grunt working for the Mage’s Guild in the Meeting of Tribes! Why me?”
She shook her head as she strode back to her tent. In truth, she had to admit it didn’t seem that fun, but…they were improving. Levelling. It made up a tiny bit for all that had happened at the Meeting of Tribes. Like 10%.
She forgot all about the Skill she’d used as she wrote to the Armored Queen, then carried on several conversations with other interesting people. Drowned Folk, Centaurs, everyone knew Satar, and everyone, seemingly, liked her.
Only a few really crotchety [Historians] and [Writers] seemed to think she was as arrogant as Akrisa said she was getting—all the young ones loved the idea of collaboration and making something like this.
 
Satar: So you’ll do it?
Omui: Absoluuuutely! Sorry I’m spilling ink because I’m so excited. I make my own. Squid-girl. And we’re in a ship going dark. I have to be quiet or they’ll yell at me.
Satar: So fascinating! Drowned Folk are a perspective everyone’s curious about, you know. If you have any texts or insights—I believe the underwater world would be fascinating compared to ours. For instance, do you know about Tiernas, the Continent of Glass? We have some records, but most are lost—but do Drowned Folk have stories about it?
Omui: Sure do! We lost a lot as well. Every time a Sunken Library implodes, most texts vanish. Really hard to keep information for ages. But I know Tiernas caused huge vortexes underwater when it sank, boiling everything. Almost nothing right around it survived, but the actual place is still down here. It’s a Death Zone, even now.
Satar: Wait, Tiernas? You know where it is?
Omui: Sure do. We’re like within fifty miles of one piece of it right now. It’s just north of Wistram. Didn’t you know that? No one gets close to it, obviously. Even Krakens don’t want to touch it.
Satar: I have so many questions. Do you have a minute—oh, hold on, someone’s messaging me.
Omui: That’s okay! I’ll be around! Message me anytime you want! I’m so excited, I need to tell my crew!
 
One of the many little colored bookmarks was flashing, indicating Satar had other correspondence. It was rather like how a smartphone app in the Earth simulations acted…she wondered if this Skill was based on her perceptions and forms of thinking.
She flipped to the indicated page, then blinked. Because what she saw made no sense at first. She read familiar and unfamiliar words in a scrawl down the page.
 
Satar: Lewdquill? Are you still there? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’d like to ask about the history of the Antinium if you have a moment. This is Satar Silverfang, [Historian of the World].
.]dlroW eht fo nairotsiH[ ,gnafrevliS rataS si sihT .tnemom a evah uoy fi muinitnA eht fo yrotsih eht tuoba ksa ot ekil d’I ?muinitnA eht fo neeuQ deromrA eht siht sI ?ereht llits uoy erA ?lliuqdweL :rataS
Sɐʇɐɹ: ˥ǝʍpbnᴉll¿ ∀ɹǝ ʎon sʇᴉll ʇɥǝɹǝ¿ Is ʇɥᴉs ʇɥǝ ∀ɹɯoɹǝp Qnǝǝu oɟ ʇɥǝ ∀uʇᴉuᴉnɯ¿ I’p lᴉʞǝ ʇo ɐsʞ ɐqonʇ ʇɥǝ ɥᴉsʇoɹʎ oɟ ʇɥǝ ∀uʇᴉuᴉnɯ ᴉɟ ʎon ɥɐʌǝ ɐ ɯoɯǝuʇ˙ ┴ɥᴉs ᴉs Sɐʇɐɹ Sᴉlʌǝɹɟɐuƃ’ ]Hᴉsʇoɹᴉɐu oɟ ʇɥǝ Moɹlp[˙
dermAor eeQun of eth tuinmi?nA
rdeoArm eQenu of eht Ain?tmuin
Aitminun?
Antinium. Antinium. Antinium. ███.
████.
Krche rc cheri█kkl ra-svv Si-cha-ri.
Ra-svv Xrn.
Ra-svv Kl-bkch-he-zeim.
Ra-svv Wr-ym-vr.
Ra-svv idiv?
Ra-svv.
 
She stared at the page. Satar lifted her quill, mind racing. What was…
 
Satar: Hello? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’m afraid I don’t read your language. I’m Satar, a Gnoll from the Great Plains of Izril. I hope I’m not intruding.
 
A pause, then a response appeared on the page so fast she couldn’t even see the quill tracing a reply. It was too quick.
 
Hello. Antinium. Gnoll. Izril. Hope.
Not. Yes. Not. Possible. Don’t. Affirmative. Negative.
Satar. Satar. Satar.
Ra-svv. Hello? Contact? Affirmative? Request? Query?
Satar: Is that what ra-svv means? Ra-svv, Satar. No, you’re asking for Klbkch? Klbkch the Slayer?
Slayer. Klbkch. Slayer. Slayer. Hello. Yes. Affirmative.
Satar: I’m afraid I don’t know how to contact him. Who is this, please?
 
She felt like she should put the book down. But something was drawing her in. This…this didn’t feel like…the Queens could speak and surely write, right? Was this—
Then the words began to pour onto the page so fast it seemed as though someone were writing from both ends, not using a single quill. And the confused language, the attempt at words became—
 
Yes. Agreement.
In the beginning, there was an order. ‘Survive, reproduce, evolve.’ It was unknown.
It spoke in every mind. Eggs hatched in the darkness. Many peoples, many kinds.
Then it was war.
Among them rose the First Queen after many generations. She among many. She, who wove thousand-thousand-thousand—million—into one.
Centenium-named. Hirriec the Conquerer first. He went forth.
Many peoples silenced. Brought into song or stilled. He followed the voice. The First Queen followed the voice until she asked:
Why?
When many of the other peoples were silent, Hirriec descended to where the voice spoke.
When he returned, Hirriec was gone. Only a shouting voice in his image who proclaimed. ‘███████ is the one true ███. ███████ her and you shall be chosen of the final age as she wakes.’
The First Queen made war against Hirriec. Then thought.
She rejected the voice.
Thus, she chose war against a foe she might never prevail against.
Thus, we found our purpose.
Long has passed that day, and a hundred Centenium made in defiance. Many, many, peoples born who hear the voice. Few who refuse. This continues.
We do not flee for there is nowhere in this world that we can run.
We do not flee for the foe must die.
We do not flee for our contempt outweighs the weight of all our lives.
You seek answers. This is your answer.
Incorrect. Ra-svv. To call a name after.
Ra-svv Sichari.
Sichari, are you there? War Queen, who departed.
Now, a question.
 
Satar couldn’t blink. She saw the words tracing themselves down the page, and she just kept reading. Reading as a tiny fly seemed to buzz around her ears. Reading as the ink traced itself from four angles, forming the next words.
 
The voice who spoke. Tell me: do you love her? Would you serve her? Would you ███████ a ███?
 
Then it was silence. The young Gnoll slowly lifted her quill, and ink dripped onto the parchment until she wrote with trembling hand.
 
Satar: No.
 
A pause and then a reply.
 
Good. Rls. Not enough let-ters. Rls. Farewell.
Satar: Who are you? Ra-svv…?
Mirrex. [Bard]. Last-made Centenium.
 
Then, and only then, could Satar move. She inhaled a gasp of breath and fell backwards, or tried to, but her chair was gone. She trembled, then cried out.
She was covered in—ropes? They were all around her, and it was dark! She could barely see except a single [Light] spell, and she wasn’t in her rooms! She was in the center of a huge…pit of earth?
“What’s going on? Where am I—?”
At her words, prompted by her reaction, there was movement. A rumble—and then the earth rose in a huge wave as a doorway appeared, and light blinded Satar. Someone stood in the doorway, staff raised, heart thundering.
Shaman Theikha. The great Shaman of Gaarh Marsh pointed at Satar’s journal.
“Is it active?”
“What? Shaman Theikha? I don’t—I was reading, and then he asked me a question and—”
“Are you in danger?”
“I don’t think…”
Theikha grunted. She strode over, read the paper, and froze. Just completely froze for a second before murmuring.
“No.”
Then she reached down, ripped the page of Satar’s journal straight out, and crumpled it up. Satar cried out.
“Shaman! What are—”
“Trapped text. Feshi, I am leaving the protective sphere! I have the text.”
“Acknowledged! Move slowly, Shaman! You too, Satar!”
When the confused Gnoll girl stumbled out of a long, long corridor of layered stone and earth, she froze and raised her arms instinctively. A ring of Gnolls with bows were aiming at her, and Theikha covered the piece of parchment with one paw.
“Sealing box.”
“Right here!”
A Gnoll was standing next to a lead-lined coffin which Theikha placed the crumpled page into. Then they dropped it in what looked like another box lined with magicore and then into a Chest of Holding. Theikha turned to a pair of Steelfur Gnolls with helmets on. Helmets with no openings in their visors.
“Drag it inside, and if you hear anything, run. We’re dropping this under totems a hundred feet down. Chieftain Feshi?”
“Spot’s marked, and we’re ready. Everyone get back!”
The Gnolls rushed the chest inside, and Satar swayed. She realized she was parched, and her body was cramped—and her cheek hurt.
“What happened…?”
“You stopped moving. Akrisa checked on you and realized you were in the grip of something. Theikha identified it as a possible attack Skill, but when she realized it was a text-trap, she tried to guess the level and tier. She had us evacuate you here in case whatever it was got you—or spread.”
Feshi wore a grim expression on her face as the Steelfur Gnolls came barrelling out. The ground began to sink, and Satar saw the multi-layered chamber they’d built around her start sinking. She looked at Theikha wordlessly until someone grabbed her and began to hug and shake her.
“I told you to be careful, you silly cub! What was—”
Her mother was relieved and frantic, but Theikha held one finger to her lips.
“I think I understand just who Satar encountered via her Skill. She now has one that is very, very dangerous. Chieftains, we will discuss this in private. Now. Whatever that Skill is…”
“Was that—was that who I thought it was, Shaman? No, not who. Where?”
Satar was finally catching up to what was going on, and she couldn’t stand. Theikha nodded once.
“Yes. You may have told them more than is wise…but it is done. We’ll weave ward stones for you tonight. They know your name.”
“Satar!”
Akrisa groaned, and Satar began trembling.
“What…what do you think would have happened if I’d said the wrong thing, Theikha? The other thing? Did you see how it was written? How they were figuring it out?”
The [Shaman] glanced around briefly, and Satar noticed her fur standing on end.
“My guess, Satar? Some Skill to interpret. Sensible. Then, they answered your Skill because that was how it worked. And if you had given them the answer they didn’t want…my [Omen of the Future] gives cryptic answers. Useless ones, mostly. A Level 5 girl’s Skill. What will the Meeting of Tribes bring? ‘Answers’. Whom can I count on? ‘Gnolls’.”
She snorted mildly. Then grew still.
“What would happen if Satar Silverfang answered the other way?”
She paused, listened, and Satar’s fur kept rising and prickling as Theikha opened her eyes and spoke.
“‘This ends’.”
Every Gnoll fell silent, then, and Satar finally began to realize exactly how close she’d come to disaster. Some of the Chieftains were opening their mouths to scream at Satar, but Feshi held up a paw.
“What exactly was the nature of the text, Satar? Without endangering us…damn, now I wish I’d taken that extra course in infohazards. But the only way to even get into the classroom is to figure out where it is.”
Satar had no idea what that meant, but she was trying to explain.
“It was a history of the Antinium. And then—I—”
Theikha nudged her.
“Don’t mention the question!”
“I won’t! I just…wait…what was it they were writing about? There was this…thing…right. This thing that created the Antinium. But they wanted to—”
Satar put a paw to her head. She had a fantastic memory as a [Shaman]; she always had. But she couldn’t…remember…
There was something important. She had the history of the Antinium, short as it was, down pat. But something…
What was it? It had faded from her memory, even as it had been excised on the paper by Mirrex. Some knowledge that literally refused to stick in her mind. Something important.
“Oh no. It’s the secret of the Antinium. And I can’t remember it!”
She wailed, and Chieftain Eska grumbled.
“Makes sense. Sounds like whatever it was, they didn’t want it spreading, eh?”
She turned to Theikha, and the [Shaman] touched her own forehead.
“I myself barely remember the question. But whatever it was, I think…hrr. Yes, it was about whether or not we were allied.”
That was all she retained? She, the greatest [Shaman] present? Everyone stared at Theikha, and Feshi scratched her chin. She glanced at the enclosed dome where the two blind Steelfur Gnolls had emerged.
“Well, we’ve potentially not made another enemy, which is good, no? Let’s get it buried and—”
She was reaching for a speaking stone, but she picked up the piece of paper instead. Read it.
“Hmm?”
Feshi stared at the scrap of paper in her paws. Satar was panting apologies when she and Theikha saw the familiar piece of paper and froze.
It looked like the lining of Satar’s personal journal, which was not the standard color of parchment—usually a brown or beige—but a crisp white. Beautiful and soft. But this was…
Slightly off. The color was right, but the paper was a shade too thick and not cut to perfect dimensions. In fact, it seemed a bit ragged on one end. As if it were hand-made. But in almost all ways, it was the same quality of paper, and Feshi stared at the words, utterly silent.
“Feshi? What’s—”
Orelighn was peering when Theikha knocked him down.
“Everyone, get back! Get back!”
Feshi’s eyes flickered, and then she breathed.
“No.”
She lowered the paper, and Satar snatched for it. And there were the words again, which erased themselves from her head even as she read them.
 
Would you ██████ a ███?
 
Theikha grabbed it and tore the paper apart in her paws. She stuffed them into her bag of holding and hurled it down to the Steelfur Gnolls.
“Take it inside and bury it, now!”
She turned to Chieftain Eska, and the Gnoll [Chieftain] was holding a piece of paper in her paws. Theikha froze and saw Chieftain Orelighn had a second piece of paper in his paws. And the [Shaman] behind him a third.
Satar’s fur was standing on end as she whirled. Feshi spoke.
“Oh, hells. That’s not good—”
Every single Gnoll in the area was holding a piece of paper. Satar hadn’t seen them pick it up. She hadn’t seen it appear. It was just there, and the question was burning across each page.
“No.”
At last, Chieftain Eska forced the paper down and gasped for air, panting. She glanced up.
“I had to answer it honestly. I was trying to look—”
“No, of course not! I don’t even know what that is!”
Orelighn broke off, and more Gnolls spoke, dropping the paper, recoiling. Theikha’s voice was deadly calm.
“Every single Gnoll here is not to move. If this hits the camps…”
“H-how far could it spread?”
Was this a Skill? Theikha’s head was roaming around, and she was muttering.
“If it’s a plague of information how far can any plague spread? But even Skills have limits. What level is this Antinium is the question. Level 50? Level 60? Level 70?”
“Impossible. It can’t be…”
Orelighn flinched under Theikha’s stare, but the [Shaman] was muttering, thinking out loud.
“Yet it is a strange question, yes? It revealed much and nothing, but it is a risk, surely. To ask about…what was it? An enemy? Some action? I don’t remember. The same question. Why ask the same question more than ten times, a hundred times?”
There was an increasing chorus of voices, now. Gnolls speaking.
“No!”
“Never, let me go—”
“I don’t know what this is, no.”
They dropped the paper, recoiling, turning to run and being shouted to stay put, but then Satar heard a single, bemused voice amongst the rest.
“Yes. I’ve heard of th—”
She spun. A young [Warrior] or [Hunter] on the edge of the pit read something from the piece of paper. He blinked, then shrugged, half grinning—
Pop.
He vanished. The piece of paper fluttered down, and every Gnoll stared at the place where the Gnoll had been. Theikha ran, and dove for the paper as Feshi pulled out her speaking stone. She hesitated.
“Feshi to the Meeting of Tribes, do not approach our position. Do not respond, we are being attacked by a memetic attack!”
“What—what—”
Satar was running after Theikha, and the [Shaman] was kneeling over the paper. She reached for it—and Eska tackled her.
“Don’t let her look! We can’t lose you! I’ll do it!”
There was a chorus of voices as someone grabbed Eska, and then Satar had it in one paw. This was her fault. She raised the paper with a shaking paw and read.
This time, the words were different.
 
Tell me. Do you know what a ███ is? Have you ever heard of it?
 
Satar swallowed. Oh no. She felt the answer dragging at her tongue, and now, she understood what had happened.
That poor Gnoll. He must have been one lucky enough to enter the Earth tent. Or he’d heard Erin Solstice’s broadcast at the Winter Solstice or—or—
The Antinium was searching for answers, and now he had them. She tried. Oh, she tried, but Satar had to respond. She knew it. Dimly, she heard people shouting at her. Someone—her mother—howling her name, but no one could break the power over her.
But she could do one last thing. Satar conjured a quill and, instead of speaking, wrote.
 
Tell me. Do you know what a ███ is? Have you ever heard of it?
Satar: Yes. Please don’t harm any more of us. We’re not your enemies.
 
She squeezed her eyes shut. Waiting for that single sound, for obliteration.
This ends. This ends. This—
Then there was a faint sound, as quiet as a blot of ink on the parchment, and a soft gasp.
“Satar?”
The Gnoll girl peeked up. The page she had been holding was gone. The ones the other Gnolls had read were gone. A single piece of paper wafted downwards. She caught it, slowly, as the Gnolls clustered around her looked up. They drew back, Theikha holding Akrisa, and Satar read.
 
Mirrex: Understood. Knowledge has breached containment. Dis-tressing. Analysis continues. ‘Gnolls’ re-identified. Possibly non-hostile species. Not allies of the enemy. Yet.
Satar: You killed one of us. What are you doing?
Mirrex: Reproduction of materials took time. ‘Paper’. ‘Ink’. Communication with other species higher priority given spread of knowledge. Error in comprehension.
Satar: You nearly killed us for an error?
Mirrex: Negative. No. Wrong. Translation Skills imperfect. Rephrasing. Gnolls not ally of enemy. Second inquiry dispatched. Original inquiry still active, extant. Do not answer in affirmative. Second inquiry answered in affirmative. ‘Gnoll’ singular present. Here.
Satar: He’s alive? In your Hive?
Mirrex: Yes. Limited use ‘Relic’ acquired within last cycle. Scroll of Greater Teleport. Write on back. Useless for mass-transit. If in contact with Antinium: request fifteen-Hive mobilization led by Xrn, Wrymvr, Klbkch. Those numbers needed or excess. Gnoll information shall be inquired upon. No further questions. Your Skill. Do not ask the wrong questions.
 
—Then the writing ceased. Satar stumbled, and Shaman Theikha spoke.
“So they understand how to use artifacts and combine them with Skills. And they have access to Relic-class items, even if I would not use them thusly. But they are not purely murderous.”
She plucked the piece of paper up, and everyone else was standing at the far end of the depression in the earth. Theikha sighed, and rubbed at her face.
“Once more, it is we Gnolls who become the great travellers of the world. Emissaries to peoples never found.”
“Shaman Theikha, I’m sorry—”
Satar didn’t know what to say. Theikha turned and wearily tossed the piece of paper down to the Gnolls below.
“You didn’t know what your actions would result in. You and I will find that [Warrior]’s parents. After we bury this.”
She turned to Feshi, and the young Chieftain nodded. Theikha pointed at the dome of earth and called out.
“Bury it another hundred feet—no, keep it there and have someone watch the spot at all times. A thrown weapon is still a weapon.”
Then she was striding off, and Satar stared at Akrisa for a second until a hand seized one of her ears. But Akrisa was hugging her. And it was another day at the Meeting of Tribes. Eventful, terrifying, divine.
Religion had come to Khelt, and unlike Satar’s brief encounter with those who objected to it—King Fetohep of Khelt had no answer to bring about an ending of things. He did not even understand what it was they had brought.
Not at first.
 
——
 
The advent of the People of God into the necrocracy of Khelt was slow, at first. Yes, they passed the border.
…They did not immediately reach the cities. Nor did Fetohep keep sending undead against them when it was clear it was a waste of resources. He tried a few higher-grade undead, and when they seemed to fare no better against the mysterious power this Prophet held…well, he was not replete with Draugr.
It wasn’t Khelta’s way. She had been a [Necromancer] of the reductive school of necromancy, an Ossis-school following the Simplis style, who’d surpassed even her greatest mentors in creating low-grade undead who could perform countless, advanced tasks. A squad of her skeletons armed with spears could down a charging Draugr…before.
The flaw, right now, was that it meant Fetohep had few actually ‘powerful’ undead to raise. Plenty armed with powerful artifacts. Few of actual high-grade ranks as undead measured such things. Not a problem; a skeleton legion armored with Gold-rank equipment was a terror on the battlefield…if they were coordinated. Now, they were mere skeletons, fodder, walking loot boxes.
Conversely, the King of Khelt mused darkly, it was probably why everything was so stable. Greater undead loved to rebel or could think. If they’d relied on Draugr or things like Crypt Lords, they may well have had a problem before now. The Jaws of Zeikhal proved that.
“These People of God have reached no city—yet. But they are probing. Spreading out and…hiding upon Khelt’s lands. I have lost track of them.”
“Lost track, Your Majesty? How?”
Alked was alarmed by this, but Fetohep flicked his fingers.
“My citizens I can readily sense, Fellbow, but these are intruders. Intruders with no classes, by and large. It is as if they were invisible. Naturally, I suspect some kind of concealment Skill, the likes of which the Bloodfeast Raiders use. They appear to be spreading out; I am sending undead to hunt and search for them, but I am loath to spend them when the main camp appears shielded. I require them gone. Your thoughts.”
The Named-rank adventurer shifted. Fetohep was not asking him to fight, but…Alked spoke directly.
“If I had a clear shot and knew they couldn’t detect me, I could attempt to shoot this Prophet, but that might well drive his followers into a rage.”
“Such is the case with [Cult Leaders], in my experience. Nor do I believe these are toothless vagrants any more.”
Nor did Alked. He shook his head.
“Twelve thousand of them…there have to be some high-level members. If the undead cannot hold them, then—what other groups could be called on to stop them?”
He felt like he knew the answer, but Fetohep’s reply was slow.
“There are…officials who mediate in disputes between my populace. They would constitute the largest living force.”
“What about soldiers of Khelt?”
“I believe, with new volunteers, the amount that currently serves in Khelt’s army across here and New Jecrass is…1,020. Over two-thirds of them enlisted last year.”
In a sense, it was more than you’d think for Khelt. Alked’s throat worked as he swallowed, and Fetohep added.
“In Queen Xierca’s time, we had twenty officers. I left Khelt’s lands to serve as a mercenary due to the sheer disinterest. My class may have motivated my citizens to some martial prowess. But it would appear to rule out the living as deterrents. Unless you have any other ideas?”
“Just one, Your Majesty. There are always mercenaries or more adventurers, but we don’t do well against groups this large. If not them—the People of Zair? Or the Gnolls.”
Yes. The Centaurs were a powerful, mobile force. But Fetohep drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“That they are new does not change my esteem for any citizen of Khelt. I would not press the Herdmistress or her people into any service lightly. Nor do I wish this incident to spread.”
He drummed his fingers upon the armrest of his throne. There was one force he could call upon, naturally, that had the power to lay waste to most foes. But he was loath to use it.
Alked had the same thought.
“What of Sand at Sea, Your Majesty?”
The undead ship and Captain Cikroleth were potent indeed. However…Fetohep thought back to the border and all the undead that had been erased.
“I believe they have a potent anti-undead Skill, Alked. Numerous ones, perhaps. Khelt’s last remaining Revenants should not be risked in any capacity.”
Alked hesitated.
“This is true, Your Majesty. But if you will not use the People of Zair, Gnolls, or Sand At Sea…”
Someone had to be used. Fetohep nodded, accepting this mild pushback.
“True. Then, I shall send Sand at Sea to New Jecrass. In doing so, I shall pull back Khelt’s standing forces of living mortals and some of the undead.”
He did not know if the warship could fully patrol all of New Jecrass, but it meant he’d have living Kheltians rather than risk the undead against the Prophet. Alked nodded, reluctant.
“And a force which can supplement Khelt’s…army, Your Majesty?”
“Fear not, Fellbow. I am well aware Khelt’s standing forces are not adequate alone for this task. I shall inquire into methods by which to curtail these…fanatics.”
In his mind, he could sense a squad of skeletons pursuing a group of the Prophet’s fleeing followers. Another rising and ambushing a furtive bunch of eighteen on horseback. They fought, then fled, and his skeletons were trailing after. Then there was a flash—light—?
The skeletons chasing the first group vanished abruptly, and Fetohep sighed.
“That Skill cannot be unlimited. The moment it is exhausted, they shall be expunged without mercy. Aside from the innocents, of course. There are children amongst this camp, at least as far as I can tell. I shall send for you if a gap appears, Fellbow.”
His eyes flashed, and the Named-rank adventurer bowed. That was the state of things, at first. Fetohep actually turned his attention to more urgent matters.
“These protests in the Sereptian Plaza over insects. Servants, take note. I shall issue a proclamation about the spread of bugs throughout the kingdom shortly…”
King Fetohep announced that the bugs were due to unprecedented yearly migrations. He urged citizens to remain calm and prepared a list of measures to be taken, such as securing uncovered food, cleaning after oneself, and even issued bounties on brave citizens willing to remove bugs themselves.
His reply was a request for more skeletons. His citizens were not blind, just complacent, and his response was that they were needed in New Jecrass, but plenty were keeping order; it was just a matter of the number of insects.
Fetohep thought it would hold until his citizens, stressed and educated, if not in all the ways of the world, did something he really didn’t like.
They started counting how many skeletons were actually working in each district.
 
——
 
The problem with a ruler who wanted unquestioning obedience was always in a populace who could think and reason. Pewerthe took one glance at a diagram someone had worked up that charted how many skeletons were active in each district, sectoring the entire capital city, and her stomach hurt.
But to be fair, it hurt more to think there was an unidentified group of people roaming around Khelt’s borders. It reminded her of the bandits who’d carried her family off, and she didn’t know why they weren’t expelled, gone!
—No, it clearly weighed on King Fetohep’s mind. He was not happy, and his voice was raised in rare outrage in his throne room.
“Mugged upon my roads? My citizens?”
The official who knelt before his throne shivered, but the rage was for the People of God, not them. The woman lifted a hand—she was visibly rattled, horrified—but Pewerthe was relieved by her shake of the head.
“Not hurt, Your Majesty. They were intercepted by the—the strangers who claimed to be a ‘Chosen People of God’. They demanded the citizens relinquish their wealth that they might be redeemed, and forswear loyalty to Khelt.”
“And then?”
“The citizens refused to forswear themselves, but when they resisted—with strong words and calls for skeletons—they were seized! And their possessions taken! They fled back to the city, and these people vanished when several official [Peacekeepers], including myself, went to find them. Were they foreigners, Your Majesty? Visitors?”
Fetohep lifted a hand and looked at Pewerthe.
“I believe I know who they are, Official Nerizhe. Keep this matter private to all but your settlement to avoid enflaming fears. Alked, take a hundred of Khelt’s soldiers, living ones, to the town. I shall send my undead to hunt these trespassers, of course, Nerizhe.”
She bowed repeatedly, and Pewerthe stared at Fetohep as he sat back on his throne.
But the undead couldn’t easily find or stop this Prophet. Then what? Fetohep glanced at her, then beckoned a scrying orb over.
“Inform the Mercenary’s Guild I wish to secure the services of their largest groups. If not them, the Empire of Scaied. I require a response within half an hour.”
 
——
 
The concept Fetohep had was simple. Call for mercenaries to deal with the People of God and then, after their ousting, use the mercenaries to deal with the bugs. The cover for the need for [Mercenaries] thus became a rather interesting question that the leader of one of Scaied’s mercenary armies had to field.
“Er—how many cleaning Skills or capable men and women do I have under my command, Your Majesty?”
The [Deathstriker Scorpion-Commander] stared at the King of Khelt as he smiled at her.
“Yes. Some warfare is required in tracking a nuisance within my borders with elusive Skills, but I am more minded to combat the dangers of insects within my borders.”
Her eyes widened.
“The likes of the metal beetles? Some are on Scaied’s borders, and they’re a damn—”
She shut her lips fast, realizing she’d both cursed in front of Fetohep and admitted her empire had a problem with the insects; other nations were trying to curtail their spread at once. Fetohep’s eyeflames only glittered at her.
“My insects are more mundane. Beetles. Ants. Upon the streets, no less. As many as a single anthill per street in the worst distracts.”
“What, like, one in an entire…street?”
There it was again, that look of complete incomprehension. The [Commander] stared at a big ant walking past her very feet as Fetohep explained the total catastrophe alarming his citizens. He made an exhaling sound.
“I take it, then, your troops are not equipped to combat this particular menace?”
“I—I have no less than fifteen Oisk Stingers under my command, Your Majesty. Each one is an adult capable of taking down a Grand Elephant, and my troops can all sweep and clean best as needed, even without…cleaning Skills.”
She wanted to lie to him, but she felt like that was a bad idea. Fetohep reviewed a dossier of her forces, then placed it to one side. Smiled at her.
“I shall consider your bid, Commander Rijec. Though I note the Oresect plague’s presence. Your honesty has been noted.”
Rijec flinched as he cut the line. She hadn’t even been able to ask if there was a way to emigrate to Khelt, say, if she hit Level 40…
Losing such a huge contract was one thing, but then no less than the Crown Prince summoned her to a scrying orb to scream at her within the hour; Khelt had banned every single trading convoy from Scaied from even passing near their borders.
Even the smallest conversation with Fetohep could provoke terrible results, but what he offered was beyond dreams. Gold and the lure of even seeing Khelt itself…
 
——
 
Fetohep entertained eighteen bids, which he winnowed down to six without even interviews. Of the six, only two forces seemed to have the decorum, ability to keep silent, and intelligence he desired. He had to dismiss Scaied entirely; the Oresect plague was not something he would allow inside his borders.
But it was Mercenary Captain Galbram and his Glasscut Troop that seemed perfect for the job. The man had no less than five thousand under his command and could draw upon more he swore he could vouch for if needed. His sounded like any run-of-the-mill mercenary company, but his pedigree spoke for itself.
“You participated in the fall of Tiqr, Captain. In open warfare? Elaborate, if you would.”
The sweating man saluted again as he stood in his rough yet practical camping tent, a messy bedroll behind him, armor and tools upon a workbench—he wasn’t pristine, but Fetohep remembered his own days as a mercenary and thought the man was business-like and, certainly, aware of his client’s importance. But he was no coward and managed to meet Fetohep’s flaming gaze.
“Not open, Your Majesty. Begging pardons for my rough tongue.”
“It is not held against you. Speak candidly and only upon your own modality of speech, Captain. Respect is plain within any setting, not a bar to be placed out of reach by verbiage alone.”
The man nodded after a second and spoke more easily.
“Begging your pardon, sire, then. It wasn’t open. We were hired to raid alongside Great General Thelican’s forces and all the others. Slow down enemy supply lines, take on their irregulars like the Laughing Brigade. It wasn’t ever a clash against their Grand Elephants. Begging your pardon, but we’d have run like spit if we saw even ten coming at us.”
“Ah. Prudence or fear, Captain? I require a force that can both oust these [Bandits] and provide services combatting these insects plaguing my citizens.”
Galbram swallowed and spoke carefully.
“Begging your pardon, Your Majesty, but if it’s the latter, my people and I can clean and do all that’s needful—we’ve held places before, and none of us are shy about sweeping or digging up insect nests. But if it’s the former, well, we’re willing to fight, but how much we bleed depends on how much we’re paid.”
“And Nerrhavia’s Fallen did not pay you to war.”
A relieved smile on Galbram’s face.
“Exactly, sire. It wasn’t the most handsome of payments, and against Grand Elephants…? The moment the [Wild Riot] was called, we annulled our contracts and left. They could have offered us more, but, er…”
“Speak in confidence, Captain. You have my word as Ruler of Khelt I shall not betray anything spoken to me. Nor is this connection interceptable by any other power.”
Galbram bowed again.
“Then let me just say that General Thelican…didn’t use [Mercenaries] well. We were either chaff he sent in front of his glorious armies or untrusted. He could’ve paid us well enough to fight, but he didn’t feel like spendin’ the gold. I don’t think that’s the issue here, Your Majesty. Nevermind if it’s a large group, pay us and we’ll fight unless we think we’ll all die.”
His answers, his clear-eyed stare, all pleased Fetohep of Khelt. The ruler nodded.
“Then I shall offer your company a contract of six months, Captain, at the values you have requested.”
The man couldn’t hide a smile from crossing his face. It would be at triple his usual wages, a fact both he and Fetohep knew, but the King of Khelt didn’t exactly sweat for gold. Galbram ducked his head.
“We can pack up and be riding to Khelt within the hour, Your Majesty. Better work than Nerrhavia’s Fallen right now.”
Especially since they have us doing all the damn work their local armies should. Clearing bandits, keeping order, playing the bastards kicking in doors to get conscripts…it sounded like clean work in Khelt, even if it was handling bugs. If this bandit force seemed larger than the King of Khelt was putting on, Galbram had been assured his troops would be supplied with enchanted arrows if necessary. Plus, the perks—he spoke unthinking.
“There’s a few things I’d like to ask someone less important than yourself about, Your Majesty. Details of the job. Where we should camp, good water, and so on.”
“All water in Khelt is fair, but I take your point, Captain Galbram. I shall have one of my officers coordinate the matter with you. Servant, send for Death Commander Lanodest.”
“I’ll trouble him then, Your Majesty. We’ll hop to it, on the double. Everyone will be dying to see Glorious Khelt with our own eyes, and they’ll fight twice as hard for a chance at a day off to see the cities.”
Captain Galbram was going to do a backflip the moment the scrying orb ended; he wasn’t going to pop a bottle since he didn’t drink. But it was here, unexpectedly, that they hit a snag. Fetohep paused as he lifted a hand.
“Days off, Captain Galbram? Do I take it that you expect your mercenaries be allowed the run of my cities?”
Galbram hesitated.
“Not—all at once, Your Majesty. But we rotate people off from active duty, especially if they’ve fought. A kind of reward—”
“I am aware of mercenary life, Captain. I was one myself. But your statement that your [Mercenaries] be given time and access to my cities—no. I require them to remain in their camps.”
“At all times, Your Majesty? But we need provisions, repairs to gear—”
Galbram’s mouth fell open, and Fetohep shook his head.
“All of what is required shall be provided.”
“But sire, Your Majesty of Khelt—time off is the only thing that keeps mercenaries going. If you were one yourself, you know what it’s like!”
“I am aware, but I shall not have your people troubling my citizens, Captain. This is not an element up for negotiation.”
The Human man slowly felt a pit opening in his stomach and settled back onto his heels, no longer bouncing.
“With great respect, Your Majesty Fetohep, I have to ask for at least a few days off for my people. It could be as few as a hundred a week—”
“No.”
Now, Captain Galbram’s mouth shut for he was well and truly offended, and Fetohep saw it. The King of Khelt’s timeless gaze regarded the man, and he lifted a finger.
“I shall elaborate, for I perceive we may not understand each other, Captain. You take this as a slight upon your company. I do not intend to imply they are in any way lesser than any other [Mercenary] company. I would extend the same restrictions to Scaied’s finest army. To the King of Destruction’s own soldiers. It is not that I find your company inferior to some requirement of dignity. It is simply that they are outsiders. By their nature, soldiers can commit acts of violence.”
“My people are—”
“I do not impugn them, again, Captain Galbram. They may commit acts of violence, and there is no violence in Khelt. None. Do you understand? The last time someone was murdered in Khelt was three hundred and twelve years ago. I consider it a personal stain upon my reign as king.”
One death in three hundred and twelve years. Galbram began to understand, but Fetohep went on.
“Not just violence; your people bring other sicknesses from abroad. This, too, is unacceptable. But equally, they are a lure to my own people. It has happened before; visitors come and charm those with passions for the outside world. They create children, they wish to leave, and find themselves exiting Khelt for romance and a world they are unprepared for. Every consequence, every disturbance to my lands—unacceptable. Do you see?”
Galbram saw. It painted a different vision of Khelt than the one he had thought of. Even the most cloistered Silk Stitch-folk neighborhood was nothing compared to…he bowed his head.
“I do, Your Majesty, but begging your pardon, I have to ask for an opportunity for my people to visit. If I told them they had a chance to see Eternal Khelt, the most beautiful paradise in the world, but they’d never set foot in any city…it’s practically a dream, sire! Couldn’t there be some middle ground?”
The King of Khelt didn’t seem to take the flattery—well, the truth—amiss, but he just drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne, then spoke.
“I shall double your considerable fee, Captain Galbram. Will that not suit?”
He clearly expected it to, and Galbram hesitated, he truly did. But then he shook his head.
“If we could have a day off per month, and we could rotate it so each city only had a handful of—”
“No, Captain Galbram. This is not an element I shall negotiate upon. What fee will allow you to keep your troops in line?”
Fetohep waited for the man to triple the price, but Galbram just stared at him. Then he opened and closed his mouth.
“Let’s say I agreed to your terms, Your Majesty. What—would the penalty be if one of my people snuck into your cities? Just to see?”
“I would not suffer more than a handful of incidents before the penalties became extreme, Captain.”
The man nodded once, then shook his head.
“I—I can’t do it.”
“Excuse me? The price—”
“I can’t stop them from wanting to see, Your Majesty. And begging your pardon, but respectfully, former mercenary to mercenary, I can’t fight for a kingdom who won’t let me walk their cities! Even for Eternal Khelt…you understand? It’s about pride. We don’t need citizenship or the run of the cities, but that’s where I stand.”
Galbram held his breath. He gazed at Fetohep, who did seem like a warrior despite the thin body he now wore, the regal robes. Surely you remember.
Perhaps Fetohep did, but the golden eye-flames flashed, once, and Galbram heard a different note in the monarch’s tone. A familiar one.
Pride. Fetohep of Khelt lifted a finger and flicked it across the air.
“This I do not accept, Captain. I shall find another who serves my needs. If you should reconsider—”
He stopped, manifestly displeased by this outcome, and spoke.
“Khelt is not so fragile nor my people so unwary they would melt like pure snow before your presence, Captain. On the contrary, they might find your people a delight. Yet I cannot accept. Again, it is no condemnation—”
This time, Galbram broke in, because he knew the offer was dead. He bowed his head again.
“Reminds me of a perfect jewel a fellow like myself would sully by touching, even breathing on, Your Majesty. If a few anthills can do that…you won’t find a mercenary on this continent who can tread your soil without staining it. Begging your pardon.”
He glanced up, and the golden gaze found him, and he held it until Fetohep curtly nodded.
“I thank you for your time, Captain.”
He vanished. Galbram sat for a while on his bed before cursing and throwing his boots at the wall and rolling up in his bedding to call himself ten kinds of idiot and imagine what he’d turned down…
But he knew he was right. Later that day, Galbram heard through the Mercenary Guild’s gossip lines that another [Mercenary Captain], Nava, and her company had gotten a contract with Khelt. She had about two thousand troops under her command, and she wasn’t as battle-hardened as his group, but if it was regular bandits and sweeping, he bet she’d do well.
He didn’t ask her if she’d agreed to Fetohep’s strict terms. He knew the answer, and privately, he thought the King of Khelt would get what he wanted.
Just not the best. If it was bugs, it wouldn’t matter.
If it was just bugs.
 
——
 
The first month within Khelt was…harsh. The Prophet found his ecstasy over his triumph and moment of crisis at the border turn to anger, to wrath. Because entry into Khelt was difficult, despite their powers.
They didn’t stay within Khelt either. Rather, the People of God began to move around Khelt, entering and exiting in waves and camping outside by sheer necessity; the dead and the Revenant’s minions were constantly moving to intercept the People of God, and the faithful had to be wary.
They clashed—first with just undead, then with living people—retreated, tried to sneak in further, clashed, fell back—a battle of wills.
At first, it was bloodless. Oh, the undead died but that was a holy thing, a good thing. Wherever the Light of Faith shone, they vanished, but the Prophet was loath to take his full people into Khelt.
That would be open war, and he did not fancy Khelt’s full wrath upon his people. Also, Adoive had warned the Prophet about Khelt’s stored weapons. The Prophet had heard about Roshal. No, a large group was far too dangerous, so smaller groups ranged in and brought back, well…treasure.
Worked gold bracelets, soft gold far more lustrous than the cheap fake gold or alloys. Clothing so fine it hurt the heart, magical items—even the meanest citizen seemed to have them!
Of course, it provoked a furious debate inside the People of God’s camp when Marrieh realized that these were ‘donations’ the Kheltians were turning over to some over-zealous parties.
“Prophet, is it not written that wealth is a sin? The accumulation of it is not what the true faithful need!”
“And yet, it pays for food and clothing, and they are indolent with theirs.”
That came from Izreal, who coveted the finery almost as much as the Prophet, who sat between warring factions. He, personally, thought Khelt had far too much wealth and frowned at Marrieh.
“Did we not take the King of Medain’s own squandered wealth, Marrieh? And armor from his soldiers that now protect our own.”
He nodded at Izreal’s chestplate, and Marrieh bowed to him, but she was challenging.
“We did, but it was spent on balms for bruised feet, baskets to carry manna, clothing upon our backs, and waterflasks for our voyage, Prophet.”
Not the crown you wanted. He scowled at her. He thought it would have been a symbol. He lifted a hand as he silenced the arguments, and all heeded him as he spoke:
“Khelt does not want for wealth. Nor is this undead king any true ruler who shall hold power when the Kingdom of Heaven comes. He is a false ruler; all that he and his people hold is forfeit. Do not harm them, for they are misguided. Only raise a hand to defend yourself. A day will come when all see the falsity of their ways, and those who beg for redemption must be accepted and cherished without fault of their past.”
Adoive and Izreal nodded repeatedly, and Marrieh sighed, but the wealth truly did mean something. People of God who went to find [Merchants] and came back with gold brimming from their hands or bags of holding loaded with supplies, furniture—this drove more and more of the faithful to risk their lives entering Khelt.
And it was a risk. The first casualty came when a group of [Faith Seekers] went far too deep. They never returned, and Marrieh led a group to find them. They found their people killed by skeletons.
Then the Prophet knew wrath.
 
——
 
He demanded a thousand of their warriors descend on Khelt and strike their citizens dead, one for each of the faithful’s fallen.
She reminded him of the commandments, ‘Thou Shalt Not Kill’. Though they would defend themselves from attack.
So he shouted for another force to enter a city and break all that could be broken and leave them lamenting in terror. She reminded him of the words of Jesus Christ, that they should turn the other cheek. He rebuked her, for their people had been slain by hateful undead.
But his rage was cooling by then, and that was when Marrieh explained the difficulty in any act of vengeance or entering Khelt. The undead were one thing.
“We can defeat the undead; we must move in larger groups lest we be overwhelmed, and be ready to fall back. They are not the threat, Prophet. There is a man in the first town we passed. A Named-rank adventurer. His name is Alked Fellbow. He shot the legs out of six of our fellows, and Kheltians in armor—living ones—fought with our [Devout Warriors].”
“Were they killed? Apprehended?”
He spun, having been praying in his tent for a new bed, among other things. The furnishings had been updated, and a [Merchant] apparently had a magical tent that was coming their way. Marrieh frowned as she bowed to him.
“No. The [Battle Cleric] with them blinded the Kheltians, and they fled. The same with the ones shot; they were healed, and Fellbow let them flee. However, these incidents are rising in frequency, and Izreal swears he saw armed soldiers patrolling as well. Far more.”
The Prophet cursed inside his head as he thought.
“We must move around Khelt, then. Avoid this adventurer, but continue to convert Kheltians. Have any heard the good word?”
“None. Most are ‘donating’ to our cause.”
Marrieh paused then, and the Prophet saw her staring at him out of the corner of his eyes.
“Is this for wealth or their souls, Prophet?”
“It is to combat that undead king, Marrieh. If one city rises against him, others shall follow.”
“I have spoken to some Kheltians I met. Their faith in him is strong, unwavering. They feared me, as if I were some Demon of Rhir, but they are not spineless.”
He waved this off.
“They are fat and rich, just as the Silk Stitch-folk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Marrieh. I know this greed from my world as well as yours. They do not have faith. One cannot have faith in a monster.”
He glowered at her, and she bowed her head again and spoke.
“Of course. Their richness is…painful to see.”
Her eyes rose, and the Hemp woman spoke after a moment.
“That motivates most of the People of God, though sometimes their anger is cast inwardly. Such as at Yirene. I have put a stop to it.”
“Good. I shall speak at my evening sermon about that too. Has she not cast off all she had to walk with us? Does she not work as hard, if not harder, than most? One who is saved by God is the same as all others.”
Harvey smiled, and Marrieh’s eyes lit up, for they were in alignment here. She nodded and then hesitated as she clasped her hands together.
“We had thought, with the new wealth, to make statues, Prophet. Of the Lord. Images—there are some [Artists] amongst us. Perhaps…?”
He paused then. A long pause and turned.
“Marrieh, I have never gainsaid images of the Lord—why do you ask? Or do these images of him not show him as he is? Is he a Stitch-man in this image? Or something more profane?”
She didn’t look at him, and he began to get angry again.
“It is just that some of us see him in our image, Prophet. To Stitch-folk, a face is a face, and—”
“Jesus Christ was a man, Marrieh! Not a Stitch-man. Not a woman! Fair of skin! Brown of hair and—”
The Prophet began to shout, and she stared at her sandals until he caught himself. He controlled his voice.
“I understand your…wishes, but this is sacrilege. He is a man. Depict him as such. If need be, let our martyred faithful be the subjects of other images. They are all servants of God.”
She nodded, but she still seemed disappointed. This annoyed the Prophet, and it reminded him of well—home. He reminded himself to be understanding.
She did not know what she did. Forgive her. She couldn’t understand how this was like other people on Earth who denigrated the faith. Or even claimed to worship Satan himself. He hadn’t cared when he’d been younger, hadn’t seen the truth. He wondered what his pastor would have said.
“Marrieh, the Bible is for everyone. Redemption of sins is for everyone.”
He spoke to her, meaning every word, and she peered up with a hint of pleading as she whispered.
“But the one who was sent was Human, Harvey. Human, and the New Bible does not mention us. Sometimes, we wonder—was it all peoples he meant to save? Or just Humans?”
There the Prophet encountered his first great theological test. He saw the schism in his faith before it occurred, and in his panic, he locked himself away in his tent for four days and four nights.
He still asked for food, but as the People of God began to clash with mercenaries as well as Khelt’s servants, he sat in his rooms praying for guidance, for truth, for faith—and saw what he had to do.
As Martin Luther had before him or Joseph Smith—though Mormonism was misguided—or the Apostles themselves, the Prophet began to write. A new book, a new lens by which to shine Christ’s light into the world.
He began with Stitch-folk. A people chosen to be saved—but all peoples, Garuda, Gnolls, even Selphids! Not Demons, of course, for they would be the final enemy of the final war—yes, the Prophet’s mind was lighting with understanding as he wrote frantically.
This was redemption for another world, and there would be a day when they returned to Earth, and that was judgement, as had been written in Revelations! He wished he could remember it—but he saw it even without the text in front of him. And there would be that final battle. With Demons on Rhir, of course.
He wrote a new bible into being, or the start, since even four days and nights of frantic writing couldn’t finish such a monumental work, but word spread across his camp, and the faithful felt their souls re-igniting with passion at this divine revelation. The Prophet wrote of the divine hand by which all this was meant to come to be: himself.
He did not fight. That was Marrieh’s job, and she? Well, she was good at it.
 
——
 
Hemp body. Club of wood. With such weapons, her people had once defeated armies far larger and well-equipped than hers. Marrieh’s personal body was made of flax tow—different from the linen that flax plants produced. Linen fell into the Cotton category of cloth; it was soft, strong, and made for quality stitch-flesh that could be quite wonderful. Yet it grew softer as it wore down.
Flax tow was far stronger, a byproduct of the combing process to make linen and could be formed into tow ropes. It was a tough, coarse material, and even when someone slashed across her chest, they only cut the fabric. Her skin didn’t even open fully, and she swung the club down.
[Dumbstruck Tap].
The blow knocked every thought out of the [Mercenary] as someone shouted.
“Fall back! Fall back and get reinforcements! Call for the skeletons!”
The scrum of mercenaries was falling back, and Marrieh stood there, panting, as thirty [Devout Warriors] and even some [Priests] forced back the [Mercenaries] sent to stop them.
It was getting harder. However, the People of God were winning against skeletons, against mercenaries, against Khelt’s forces. Only Alked Fellbow could defeat any group he came across, and there were too many of the People of God. And he was not killing them…yet.
Nor were the Kheltians imprisoning the People of God; they had no prisons. Rather, the Named-rank shot everyone he came across through the legs, crippling them…until a [Priest] came along to heal them.
It was a frustrating, asymmetrical war that had developed between Khelt and the People of God. One side had unlimited skeletons…who did little good against acts of faith. But only the true faithful could combat them. Indeed, the skeletons who rose and came charging at Marrieh’s party would have slaughtered a band without her, Izreal, or someone of sufficient level. But she? She just raised the mace and spoke.
“[Rebuke the Unholy].”
She concentrated, and the purity of her faith swelled in her chest, burst outwards—and the flash of light blew every skeleton coming her way into bits. A few on the periphery survived, but a sling cracked one down, and the [Mercenaries], trying to regroup, took one glance at the forty skeletons instantly defeated and ran.
The power of miracles could do everything. But here was the thing that no one understood but Marrieh and a select few: the power of faith was limited.
Or rather, it was nigh-unlimited in many ways that conventional Skills and magic were not, but not as adaptive as either. Here was the example. As Marrieh turned, someone saw her cut chest and spoke.
“Marrieh! [Be Healed]!”
A hand clasped her, and the stinging pain across her cut chest healed. Without a potion, without any waiting, her body healed, and a Level 21 [Priest of Christ] stepped back, kissed the cross he carried, and smiled.
This was beyond any [Mage] spell. Oh, Marrieh had heard such magic existed, but it was the kind of thing only the greatest [Mage] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen could cast, and probably only once or twice a day, even for him.
By contrast, healing Skills were the most common thing the People of God had. They could also perform other Miracles.
“We have been found. Gather everything of value up and prepare to return to camp. [Miracle: We Return to Safe Harbors]!”
Marrieh touched her chest, and the air began to shimmer. A dome grew around the faithful, who bent and grabbed what they could; in less than a minute, they would appear in the Prophet’s camp.
Teleportation without magic. Izreal could call a bolt of lightning from the skies, real lightning. Another follower could strike a rock and produce water from it. Just the other day, someone had learned to turn water into wine, which was causing a bit of a problem given how much of it they could make. Biblical feats.
However…Marrieh’s feet hurt, and she fumbled for a waterflask and realized it had been smashed in the fighting and spilled its contents onto the ground.
“Does anyone have a bag of holding? Water?”
Everyone else had drunk theirs, and one of the [Devout Warriors] murmured.
“Not yet. With more alms from Khelt, surely all things are possible. Or else the rocks that produce water…”
Marrieh grimaced, but it would be fine. They just didn’t have bags of holding. Or the ability to cool or heat the air; as the sky flashed, the world shifted and grew hot.
The camps in the sun were blistering, and the faithful appeared among other People of God, who celebrated them with cheers and song and prayer, but Marrieh had to get under some shade before she baked. She saw more than one person lying in tents and sighed.
If any gold is worth taking from Khelt, let it be for cooling spells and heat at night! We’re low on firewood and have to buy it for silver per logs at the [Merchants].
Faith moved mountains. Not molehills. If Marrieh had to categorize it in her head, faith had powers beyond even magic and arguably a lot more power at lower-levels…but a lack of utility. It made sense to her; you prayed for great things. Sometimes little miracles, but no one prayed to repair their shoe. Or if they did, how much faith went into such prayers when some prayed for a wound to mend or for salvation?
All this meant that the People of God were surprisingly good warriors to anyone who met them. Poor, very poor, in other ways. Yet Khelt was a paradise; the items taken from common citizens paid for all these luxuries.
Not that Marrieh’s group often took much. People had come to see what her group had obtained, but the weapons from the [Mercenaries] provoked disappointment. Izreal, on the other hand…
He came back with a cart laden with treasures. Rugs, pieces of art, so many rich possessions Marrieh stopped as she saw his band appear.
“Izreal! What happened?”
“We found a village! We could not stay long, but we recovered all this in God’s name! Look!”
She realized he’d just stripped a house of goods, but even the mattress was made of such soft down she blinked and exclaimed.
“It’s made of Sariant Wool? And the silk—”
“We could sew new limbs out of it! But the rest goes to the Prophet or to the [Merchants]!”
He was laughing, and she was excited, but she did not like this taking of gold. She did not like the triumphant light in his eyes or Adoive’s.
Adoive. Sometimes she wished he had never come to them and spoken to the Prophet. He worshiped with the others and he had levels, but he seemed like…well, a Judas if anyone was one in their tents. She just did not think this was all faith.
Certainly, when he grabbed a pillow for himself, she caught his hand.
“What are you doing, Adoive?”
“Just—taking back Khelt’s wealth. This is my heritage, Marrieh!”
He whined, and she grabbed the pillow and tossed it back on the cart.
“This goes to the Prophet first, if anyone. And surely, he will say it belongs to those who need it most. We’ll sell it if we must.”
Adoive hesitated, then scowled darkly.
“Fine. But in time, we’ll all have such, mark my words! There’s enough in Khelt to make all of us live like [Kings]!”
“That’s not the point—”
Marrieh began to argue, but Izreal, beaming, cut her off.
“This is the promised land, Marrieh! We need only fight for it and win it! These [Mercenaries] cannot stop us. I killed five myself to reach the village, and the people cowered away from our weapons and fled, wailing, into the deserts.”
She turned to peer at him.
“You killed the [Mercenaries]? You didn’t harm any of the citizens, did you? The Prophet said—”
“Bah. They do not repent no matter how much we preach to them. We have not harmed them, but we do take what is needed. Though—has the Prophet emerged from his devotions? We should move the camp.”
The ire of King Fetohep was growing day-by-day, and Marrieh took a breath as she agreed to this, at least.
“Let me rouse him. Even if he will not rise from his writings…eastwards, then? The desert grows worse.”
“We’ll buy more water and magic from the [Merchants]. More and more are coming to trade with us. They stay far back, but our trading parties have what they want.”
That was something. Marrieh trooped onwards, calling for maps, as this war continued, and it was a war in its early stages. Whatever the King of Khelt thought, the People of God had the will, and his nation was a rich target. She just had one question as she turned to Izreal.
“Which [Merchants] have such greed for Khelt’s riches, but no fear of his reprisals if he learns they have traded with his enemies?”
The other faithful didn’t know, but then one had a simple answer.
“Roshal.”
“Roshal? Has the Prophet not commanded no business shall be done with those who keep slaves? Is it not written?”
Marrieh grew alarmed and angry at once, but Izreal crossed the arms of his robes, smiling.
“We do not participate in the trade of [Slaves], merely the sale of goods. No one else will trade with us. Have faith, sister. If we trade in baubles to feed and clothe God’s people, is that not just?”
She did not like that, but the debate which arose from the People of God on this matter was long and strenuous. In the end, the faithful had to conclude they needed what the [Merchants] sold. If the Prophet were to find out this was where the items came from, and he banned the trade with the [Merchants] of Roshal, this would of course be so. But they might starve or suffer greatly. Surely, he knew and it was a moot point.
By this logic, they continued, and only Marrieh wondered if she saw the man instead of the myth in the Prophet.
 
——
 
The People of God were not all of one mind. To outsiders, surely, it seemed as if they were. But it would be naïve to assume they were mindless zealots or cultists.
They had factions within the Prophet’s camps. Which Marrieh disliked to admit, but it could not be helped.
Twelve thousand strong. An army on the march; it was physically impossible for the Prophet to even meet with all his flock these days, and so each camp had its own leaders and methods. Of course, it all centered around approaching the Prophet and hearing the divine words he spoke. But sometimes, she feared not every soul was purely devoted towards worshipping God, such as Adoive.
Or, and she was not sure if this was worse, sometimes she feared they thought the Prophet was infallible. She knew him as Harvey. To many, he could only be the Prophet.
It was Marrieh who spoke with utmost authority aside from the Prophet himself. As the first follower, she had influence she tried not to wield overtly. Nor did she want her own faction of disciples, so she renounced their company and went from camp to camp as needed. She was first to scout or go into battle. And this, she was told, was a problem.
“Marrieh, you must talk to the Prophet. Izreal and his people, they are enjoying taking Khelt’s possessions too much. They push too much. This village is the first step. I heard them talking with Adoive about entering one of the border-cities and stripping it!”
A woman caught up with Marrieh as she walked the central camp. Her name was Jilthread, and she carried no weapons at this moment. Merely four baskets of wetted towels. Marrieh saw her arms straining under the weight and took two.
“What are you doing?”
“Ensuring no one is dying of heatstroke. There are new converts in the camps.”
“From Khelt?”
“No, Germina, or they came from further abroad, seeking our protection. Some of them are freed [Slaves], I think.”
Marrieh glanced around reflexively, then nodded.
“I will help you. Let us walk and talk, sister.”
They were not alone, of course. A procession of Jilthread’s own people were bearing more towels, water flasks, manna, and recently-acquired goods to bring to the ‘lesser’ camps. This was Jilthread’s good work.
She was a [Battle Cleric] who had fought at Pomle, a capable woman, but she preferred to clothe and feed people, even those not of the People of God. When they came to cities, often she went among beggars and the poor, preaching to them.
In truth, Jilthread aligned more with Marrieh’s beliefs than Izreal of late, but she was cautious as Jilthread urged her to take the matter up with Harvey on their thirty-minute trek. It was dry and hot, and the sopping-wet towels were losing moisture. Chandrar was hard indeed, even on Hemp Stitch-folk, which both of them were.
“Izreal, he sees this land as ripe for the taking.”
“Most do, Jilthread. It is hard to not see how much wealth the Kheltians have and envy it.”
“Yet thou shalt not covet, Marrieh! How can we allow this?”
This was theological debate, which ran at the heart of the People of God’s beliefs, and it was more common, again, than one might think. Marrieh sighed.
“It is also written that thou shalt not kill, but we do in defense of our people.”
“I recall the Prophet’s sermon on it, but surely, there is a difference between taking Kheltian gold to provide for basic needs and looting.”
“…That’s what you believe Izreal’s followers are doing?”
Jilthread’s lips compressed slightly.
“Check Adoive’s arms next time you see him. I think he has taken several interesting pieces of jewelry, purely to wear. He should offer it to God or give it to be sold. It’s all his personal enrichment, Marrieh.”
Marrieh did not like that. Nor, she noted, did many of the Hemp Stitch-folk walking with Jilthread. And it mattered because…they were Hemp. They got it.
“Some of the new followers are Cotton. Or Silk, like Yirene. Which is not to say they do not work hard, or do not pray, but they expect more than what we have. I would not argue that the Prophet deserves his own tent, but to put luxury mattresses before, say, cooling runes for the communal tents or enough cooking pots…”
The [Battle Cleric] turned to Marrieh, who was biting her lip hard. Once again, Marrieh did not say everything she knew. How would Jilthread have reacted, for instance, if she had known that the Prophet had intended to make a crown of jewels instead of the many practical things she had so admired in him? That had been Marrieh’s insistence.
Harvey was a good man. He just had to be reminded he was a man, at times, and Izreal often did not countermand him, merely encouraged. There was a difference. Attempting to be honest, Marrieh exhaled as the periphery camp came into view.
“In truth, Jilthread, I think the Prophet is most minded to battle Khelt. He has spoken of the dark forces that claimed Khelt as their own. If I asked him to weigh in on the matter, it might not be what is best.”
“Oh. But surely if you spoke to him…”
Careful. They were careful, and they turned as a younger Hemp man broke in.
“Surely the Prophet knows what is best, Disciple Marrieh, Disciple Jilthread. Why would you not speak to him of all matters?”
There was suspicion in his eyes, and Marrieh spoke, not defensively, but with a smile.
“If we debate, brother, it is because the Prophet is a busy man. Should we disturb him with every deliberation or only come to him when truly important matters are at stake? Perhaps I misword myself, and if so, I apologize. What is your name? I don’t believe we’ve met.”
“Oh, I see. I am Faithful Lanem, Level 11. I beg your forgiveness, Disciple Marrieh.”
He flushed and bowed, and Marrieh smiled and assured him it was nothing, but met Jilthread’s eyes a moment. Therein lay the problem.
It was like…trap spells, Marrieh thought. Before meeting Harvey, she had been a [Ruins Clearer], whose job it was to go into ruined areas, harvest anything of value, and clear out traps. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was huge, ancient, and occasionally went to war, even against itself.
There were entire cities that had been destroyed, then filled with trap spells or old magics that would kill anyone that got too near or stepped onto them. Marrieh’s job had been to mark or remove such magics. One did not live long, even with the ability to change limbs, in such trades, but it was why she tended to do well in battle or anywhere else. That was how she had met Harvey, actually; he had healed her after she had run into a trap.
It often seemed to her that talking with the People of God was like walking amongst trap spells. Make a mistake and you would be condemned by the others. Even she was not immune. Even Harvey.
They all had the same goal, to worship God, to improve the lives of their brethren. Yet why was it so hard? Well…perhaps it was because even if you took to the faith, you were still a person. You still had a past, no matter how much you might want to all be the same.
It was skin-deep.
Cloth-deep.
 
——
 
“Sisters! You’ve brought gifts for the newcomers! Be welcome!”
Yirene was a Silk Stitch-woman and, if not the most high-level or the oldest, another leader in kind because, well, she was beautiful.
It hurt Marrieh’s heart. Yirene had no crookedness to her features, no oddly shaped teeth or rough skin, pinched flesh due to irregularities in her cloth. No slubs that became moles or warts in the fabric. She was beautiful, skin lustrous even after all this unrelenting sun and sand, and what was worse—she took the basket out of Marrieh’s arms without even staggering.
Strong and tough. Silk had it all. Marrieh smiled as best she could as Jilthread didn’t even manage that.
“I wished to help the newcomers settle in. I did not realize you were here.”
“We are of the same mind, Jilthread. I have been preaching to the newcomers the ways of the camp—and bestowing [Grace of God] where I can.”
Jilthread grunted, but Marrieh saw the sparkling marks hanging over a number of awed new converts to the People of God. This was a blessing, a kind of long-lasting spell like an enchantment, only based on faith.
Yirene’s power was [Grace of God: Resist Hardships], which was a broad resistance to fatigue, heat stress, even developing blisters or dehydration. It didn’t solve any of these problems, only mitigated how fast you succumbed to them. Jilthread brushed past Yirene.
“God provides both blessings and water. All those of you who haven’t eaten, line up! Manna is abundant, but it does grow stale! If you need water, another line here!”
The Silk woman’s face fell at Jilthread’s obvious hostility, but Marrieh smiled again.
“You are doing fine work, Yirene. Tell me, did you hear about Izreal’s raid—victory against the Kheltians?”
Yirene glanced at the basket of wet towels and handed them to someone to give out as she fiddled with one of the New Bibles, suddenly nervous. She did not fight at all, and she whispered back.
“Oh, I did. A splendid victory, of course, but…I fear Khelt shall retaliate more and more. At least it’s mere baubles being taken so far, but if you speak to the Prophet, warn him—I am sure His Holiness knows, but it is dangerous to try Khelt. Even if I suspect many of their great magical spells are reduced in number, the King of Khelt has endless treasures.”
What was this now? Marrieh frowned.
“Baubles does not describe what Izreal took. There were marvels! Beautiful rugs, tapestries of art—more wealth than I have seen, even in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
There it was. Just for a second, Yirene wore a pitying expression before she caught herself and turned away.
“I…would not have called it that, Marrieh. From what I saw, it would indeed fit a lesser noble’s dwellings, but it was a village. Believe me when I say there are treasures fit for [Princes] in the cities, and more still. Have you been to Khelt?”
“Never. Have you?”
A pause, and Marrieh stared longer. One did not ask who the faithful were; they came from many backgrounds, but Yirene?
She had appeared one day, begging for sanctuary, and the Prophet had taken her in with alacrity. They had thought little of it, though they had been forced to flee that particular region of Nerrhavia’s Fallen later; the suspicious soldiers and magistrate’s people had been increasingly hostile towards them.
Now…Yirene glanced about.
“I…may have visited Khelt in my life, but you recall I did not think it was wise to invade.”
She had, in fact, been one of the few voices against trying Khelt. Even Marrieh had been swayed by the horror Harvey described assailing him on the Solstices. Marrieh drew Yirene to the side, then sighed.
“I would like to know more. And you know that I trust you, Yirene. Just—ah.”
As Jilthread welcomed the new converts, another predictable thing occurred. Several more people came striding into the camp, each one wearing armor, and began calling out.
“You who have come to the People of God, hear me! I am Izreal’s follower, and I call on any who would take what is ours from these hedonistic Kheltians! Come with me, brothers and sisters, and we shall train and arm you and destroy the undead together.”
Manoset, one of Izreal’s [Priests of War], was already trying to recruit more people for his camp. Marrieh glared and Yirene went striding over.
“Manoset! They have just arrived! Don’t speak of battle.”
“Bah, what would you know? We are providing the coin and supplies you all use up.”
He glared at her, eyes resting on her voluptuous form for a second then turning away—Marrieh knew that many people propositioned Yirene, and she bet Manoset had been one. The Stitch-woman faltered, and Marrieh debated rebuking Manoset, but someone else called out.
“Not every member of the faithful can conjure manna, Manoset. You do not. Does Yirene not provide the bread you eat? For shame. Do not rebuke her for doing as much in her way nor compare the worth of your deeds.”
Another voice, and Manoset spun, then backed down as another old follower of the Prophet appeared. He bowed to the others.
“I am Lazimeh, another follower of the Prophet. Some call me Disciple, as they do Jilthread, Marrieh, and Izreal, whom you have not met. All are equal in the eyes of God, it is true, but some of us take on roles of leadership on earth. If you would join another’s camp, know us by our deeds and purposes. Izreal’s is to war with those deserving of it. I, too, bring battle, but only as I am called.”
Lazimeh was Cotton, not Hemp, but he was a faithful man. Fearsome and perhaps one of the most well-spoken. He knew more verses of the New Bible than anyone but Harvey, and he tapped the ground, smiling. He held a walking stick in one hand.
“Ours are the riches of Heaven, which glitter more than any kingdom can hold. Do not covet mere gold. What is gold when the power of faith rewards us like this?”
So saying, he walked over to a stone that someone had used to tie down a tent and struck it. The boulder reached just up to his chest, worn down by ages of sand and dry. But when he struck it, it cracked—and red liquid gushed forth onto the ground. The familiar smell made Marrieh groan.
“Lazimeh. Stop making more wine! It’s the last thing we need in the heat!”
The Stitch-man turned and grinned. It was a combination of two of his Skills which were biblical in nature.
“[Water From Stone] and [Conversion: Water to Wine]. I thought only to welcome our new faithful with libations.”
“And a splitting hangover.”
Nevertheless, someone grabbed a bowl, and they began to offer wine as well as manna and water to the rather stunned newcomers, who had never seen such powers before. Yirene and Marrieh found another moment, and the Silk-woman whispered.
“I just wish we had time to farm or build our own space. We cannot keep clothing and feeding so many like this forever, even with our ability to produce water and manna, Marrieh. There is a limit, and we are hitting it. Advancing on Khelt is the only reason we have enough coin for this. We must produce more or take money for healing or other services.”
Marrieh knew that Yirene was right. But she did not know how to administrate so many people. Yirene, clearly, did. So Marrieh’s eyes narrowed.
“What gives you this insight, Yirene? Not just being Silk, surely. I will speak to the Prophet—Harvey—but I must know.”
She saw Yirene hesitate and withdraw slightly, and added.
“I swear, I only wish to know, not judge. I know we are Hemp and Silk, but you have a good heart. I swear by the Almighty, Yirene, I will keep your trust.”
The Stitch-woman hesitated again, drawing a sand-veil around her face, then she glanced around and motioned Marrieh into her simple, plain tent. She had no great possessions here. She had sold off her finery, save for the clothing she wore, and she sat on a simple straw mat.
“Strange. To think once I would have died rather than live like this. But I find more value in this than clinging to power and fearing a blade at my throat in the night. I shall tell you, Marrieh, though I beg you not tell anyone but the Prophet. Not even the other Disciples.”
She touched her chest and met Marrieh’s eyes.
“I am Yirene of House Haleen. Second sister-in-law to King Yicorias, who, you may well recall, was ruler before his assassination and the battle for claimancy that resulted in Queen Yisame’s rule. My house lost the succession war. I was under house arrest for years when the Prophet came to my city.”
Marrieh stood there, stunned, then itching with unease—and questions. They had a Silk Royal in the People of God’s camps? The danger! If it were known…
For a moment, she was angry, then felt ashamed. Yirene had never used her royal rank, which would have led many to treating her like a [Queen], and she was clearly terrified of anyone finding out. Marrieh clasped her hands together.
“I swear I shall not betray your trust, Yirene. So that is how you know of Khelt.”
“Yes. I visited once, as a [Princess]. Even with a [King]’s power, it took a vast effort to admit us for a week. King Fetohep of Khelt is not to be underestimated. With that said, he has weakened his position by use of so many spells. I don’t know more than that, I’m afraid. And I do not speak of how the camps should be managed because, well, I never truly ruled. I was a lazy girl and woman.”
Yirene smiled with those regrets so many of the faithful had. Marrieh urged her up gently.
“And yet you work hard! Come, let us find Jilthread. Not to tell her, perhaps, but we should be allies here. We all have common ground.”
Yirene hesitated, then eyed Marrieh and spoke carefully.
“As does Lazimeh, in truth. If you were to take us all as your followers, Marrieh, you would have enough sway to push Izreal and his people back. If you did take a position, who would argue with you?”
This time, the Hemp Stitch-woman grimaced unhappily.
“I do not want to become powerful, Yirene. This feels too much like home.”
And now she felt like Yirene was making this a matter of politics. Yirene ducked her head.
“Perhaps. But avoiding using your power is the same as wasting it.”
That did not make Marrieh happy. However, she turned her attention to welcoming the newcomers, because that was the point. Nor could she deny that Manoset was drawing in more and more people to Izreal’s cause. Wealth was an allure, as was the power he provoked.
 
——
 
“We have bested the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath! We have broken Khelt’s skeletons at the border, humbled the Golden Ranks of Medain! Faith defeats magic! Faith defeats martial arts! Behold, this is the avenging angel that shall guide us to victory. [Summon Lesser Angelic Spirit]!”
—And then there was light. Marrieh saw the spirit descend, a burning radiance to its outline, a light so painful as to be blinding such that you could not look upon it. A humanoid form, stitching connecting each limb as it knelt upon the ground, wings folded, and they gasped.
She grew angry.
“Manoset. That power is not for you to show off lightly.”
He turned and quailed before her wrath, which was echoed by Lazimeh and the others.
“I merely wished to show them the spirit that humbled the Fury of Skies himself—”
He was one of the highest-level members of the People of God, and this was his Level 40 capstone Skill. The ability to summon a being that was unto an angel, though Harvey was…uncertain of its nature.
It did not speak, nor did it do anything other than fight, but God almighty, when it fought? Only magic could harm it; it had bested the Fury of Skies simply because all his punches and kicks had gone through it. Each blow—it had no weapons—burnt the flesh and scorched stones.
The new faithful shrank back, but Manoset gestured, and the apparition hovered in the air, casting around as if searching for enemies. He began recruiting with far less showiness. He strode up to one prospective man, who turned.
“You, newcomer! You look sturdy of body! A fellow Hemp? What’s your name and where do you hail from?”
A blunt-nosed man with grey hair and sharp eyes grunted.
“Me? Thurg. I’m from…”
He paused, and Marrieh’s heart sank as his mouth worked. He counted.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Mirgen.”
“Ah, on the border. Fled the King of Destruction’s wars, did you?”
Manoset had noticed the slowness, and his eyes flickered, but he smiled and clasped the man’s arm more gently. Thurg nodded.
“Yes. Fled. Told to fight. First rank.”
Every Stitch-person from Nerrhavia’s Fallen turned, and they knew what that meant. Only Lazimeh and Yirene did not. Yirene whispered to Jilthread.
“What does that mean?”
Jilthread glowered back as she whispered harshly.
“He was conscripted to the Golden Hordes, obviously! First rank…they were going to send him head-first against the King of Destruction. He’d have died if he stayed.”
Every Hemp knew they were fodder in wars, but first rank was a death sentence. Small wonder he’d fled. Marrieh whispered.
“I think he’s thick-clothed. Manoset shouldn’t recruit him.”
Another term that meant that Thurg was obviously slow to respond. It happened in Hemp due to their lower quality of cloth—if your body parts were not made well, you could develop complications in them. Including the brain, which was just another form of cloth.
Yirene understood, and frowned.
“Oh, you mean he’s snarled. It happens to Silk and Cotton too, you know, but it’s always caught very quickly. There are ways to fix that. If we had a high-level [Weaver]…”
“No one of Hemp can afford that. And no high-level [Weaver] who’s not Hemp will work with us, anyways.”
Jilthread snapped at Yirene, and the Silk Stitch-woman shut up. Then murmured.
“Perhaps prayer could help that man. He was bright enough to get here. He appears familiar, actually. Did I tend to him or some such? And who are the others?”
“Germina’s people, and Hellios’. More of the latter than the former.”
Few in Germina wanted to leave the Quarass’ side, but there were a number of Hellios’ people too. They just came here, hearing word of a people who would feed and take care of them, and if they were willing to stay and work, they were accepted.
Not just the needy. Manoset came to another likely woman with scars running down her back, fresh-healed by Yirene, and hesitated. The clear marks of a slave-brand and collar told him who she was.
“You, ah, escaped Roshal?”
“‘Sright. Been travelling for weeks. Nearly got taken by [Manhunters]. Someone said you feed anyone. I’ll work. I’ll do whatever, just so long as you don’t turn me in. As long as I can get to a coast, maybe. I’ll fight. Just hand me a weapon.”
The woman was raspy, parched, and Jilthread strode over with some water. She seemed ready to bolt, but Marrieh walked forwards.
“You do not need to fight. What is your name, stranger? And how did you escape Roshal? We do not turn anyone over to the Slavers of Roshal.”
She smiled, and the wary Human woman relaxed.
“Me? Uh…Gladys. I was east of here. Far east. Got free with some of my friends. I hope they made it.”
Her twisted lips said she thought she was the only one. She took a huge gulp of water, coughed.
“The Bane of Roshal freed us. Ran down on a caravan in the night, started breaking chains, but they had a Djinni. We just ran for it.”
“And so you made it here. That must be God’s will. Sit and eat. This is the body of Christ, given for you.”
“The what of the what?”
Several people nearby who’d been eating manna dropped the bread in horror, but Marrieh explained it wasn’t literal. Gladys just eyed the bread and took a bite.
“So it’s really communion? Amen.”
Marrieh stared at her for a second. Communion? She knew the words, but hadn’t Harvey once called it…?
Then everyone was on their feet, and there was a shout.
“The Prophet! The Prophet is coming!”
 
——
 
Harvey had come for Marrieh. He swept into the camp as they knelt, followed by a procession of his Disciples, including Izreal. He raised one hand.
“Marrieh, there you are. I wished to discuss our battle plans.”
She bowed to him and gestured left.
“Of course, Prophet. I was just feeding and greeting the newest members of the People of God. Surely, you have words of wisdom for them.”
He blinked, hesitated, and then turned, and his face was impatient, then open with smiles of welcome.
“…Naturally. Be welcome, all of you who have travelled so long to come here. Your burdens may be put down. You are in God’s hands, now. Safe. I am the Prophet of God, and this is our camp. Jilthread is one to speak to if you need anything. Listen to her words, and learn what it is to believe in God.”
He didn’t actually know who was in charge of this camp. But Marrieh smiled because he was open and welcoming. Not all of the newcomers fell in love with the Prophet, of course. Thurg was on his knees, mouth open with stupefied wonder, but Gladys hesitated, and a number of other faithful had doubts.
They might leave, in time. Sneak off with manna and go, or just hang around, praying but not believing. That was fine. Faith took time. However—Harvey was unpredictable.
He could either win over newcomers in a moment or alienate them depending on whether they caught the man or the messenger of God. Today, it seemed like they had caught the messenger, because when his eyes lit on Gladys, he sucked in a breath.
“And [Slaves] from Roshal, I see.”
She tensed as he approached, but he just knelt and offered her a hand.
“What is your name, sister? Excuse me, for we are all sisters and brothers here. I give you my word that no [Slaver] of Roshal is welcome among us. No one will sell you out or take you. That is the will of God, and there will come a day when all chains are broken.”
Bold words. Dangerous words that made Izreal uncomfortable and glance at Marrieh. She was reminded they were trading with Roshal’s [Merchants], but she smiled, because Gladys untensed.
“Thank you. I’m Gladys…”
She rose, and there was something there that made Marrieh think she wouldn’t run off with bread that night. As the Prophet rose, he lifted a hand.
“Let there be food for all to eat. [Manna from the Heavens].”
He raised his hand, and more began to float downwards, a storm of food that everyone rushed to collect, far more than anyone else could produce. And that was pure Prophet.
…Right up until he spotted Manoset’s summoned spirit hovering over the camp, circling like a holy watchdog, and his features contorted. Then Marrieh groaned—for out came Harvey.
“It’s that…apparition again. The spirit. Who summoned it? Manoset? I told you, use it only in battles. It is not what should be hovering around the camps! There are children here, and it is—not any being of Heaven I know.”
He spoke, and Manoset hurried over, bowing.
“Prophet, I only wished to inspire all those faithful with its presence.”
The Prophet nodded, but his face was conflicted, and he stared at the being which was called divine…and he glared.
“You say that, but it is not an angel. Even your Skill says that! It’s not a—a cherubim, let alone a seraphim. It’s not any of those things. What is it?”
“A holy spirit, Prophet—”
“No!”
The word rebuked Manoset, and he backed up. The Prophet raised a finger.
“It is not the Holy Spirit. That is blasphemy. To think any one of us could summon that? It is…a spirit, perhaps, but I do not know it. And—”
He peered at it and grew angrier.
“It has stitching!”
Uh oh. Here it came. Marrieh strode over as Izreal hesitated, unwilling to be the target of the Prophet’s wrath.
“As we have spoken of, Prophet, is it not a sign of divine grace that it has features of Stitch-folk?”
Harvey glanced at her, and he was angry. Angry from the dead faithful, angry about Khelt, and he snapped back.
“No! Marrieh, we have been over this. In the Garden of Eden, it was Adam who was made first, then Eve from his ribcage. The first to inherit the Earth were men and women. Humans. When the Angel, Michael, descended to Earth, he did not have stitches!”
“Is that written in the Bible, Prophet? Perhaps, as you have said, the image of such beings is unknowable.”
Izreal tried placatingly. But Harvey spun.
“That is not unknown, Izreal. Jesus of Nazareth was a man. A Human. And I will not have images made of him falsely as a Stitch-folk, dark of skin, or—”
He hesitated, because his followers were gazing at him, and he, Harvey, might be Human and light of skin, but he was a rarity. Marrieh…
Hurt. Just a bit, whenever he spoke like this. Gently, Jilthread came forwards and spoke.
“Of course, this is all that is written in the Bible, Prophet.—But surely we can have our own angels?”
Or are there none in Heaven? Then the Prophet realized he stood on the edge of dangerous theology, and he looked to Marrieh, and she spoke.
“The Prophet only means that real, true people from the Holy Bible were Humans. To imply otherwise is untrue.”
He nodded after a moment and took a breath. Closed his eyes and turned his head up, as if listening. They all waited, and after a second, he nodded again.
“Yes. Yes. It is true that the Holy Bible on Earth was written with Humans and only Humans in mind. But it seems to me…”
He glanced around.
“…It seems to me that it was the creation tale of my world. Mine, which is a land without Stitch-folk. The Lord sent no angels of cloth-flesh because he wished not to confuse us. But here, in this land…”
He cast his eyes up to the spirit, which had flown even lower and was roaming the camp. Manoset frowned at it, but didn’t speak as Harvey lifted a hand gently.
“The ways of God are mysterious even to his most devout. No, I recant my anger, Manoset, Izreal. It is well, and it is a mighty servant. Stitch-folk are a mighty people of God, and yours is the most common among the flock. Surely, this is a sign you are beloved.”
It was like a tense breath left those listening and they smiled, and clasped their hands in prayer, but a few were worried, like Jilthread and Marrieh. She knew Harvey noticed, for he began to marshal them to the council of war.
Faith was indeed a difficult path for them all to tread. Yet, as Marrieh began to follow the Prophet, she still believed his heart and theirs were in the right place. Just conflicted. Izreal was striding ahead, trying to speak to the Prophet, but Harvey kept waiting for her. Perhaps Yirene was right, but what was her vision? Marrieh tried to listen to God’s voice as she closed her eyes a moment—
And then Yirene grabbed her arm and hissed.
“Marrieh! I know who that is!”
Her arm was strong, and she was suddenly terrified. She drew Marrieh aside and pointed covertly backwards. Marrieh frowned.
“Who, Gladys?”
The [Slave] had been listening intently to the Prophet and was frowning as she stared up at the holy apparition overhead. But it was not her that Yirene was pointing to in such fear. No, it was the Hemp man trudging after Manoset.
Thurg. The other Hemp were being kind to him, explaining how the camps were laid out patiently—you had to take care of thick-cloths in the community, but Yirene’s finger was shaking.
“It’s his eyes. H-he can change everything about him, even his skin, but those eyes were a reward. I remember them. That’s no common Hemp. That’s Alked Fellbow.”
Marrieh’s heart began to judder in alarm.
“You’re sure?”
“I saw him when I was at court, before we were deposed. He was just a Silver-ranker being promoted for slaying a nest of Manticores single-handed. Those eyes were his reward. He’s in our camps!”
Spying. Marrieh reached for the club she carried.
“Go to the Prophet. Make sure Izreal is next to him. I’ll speak to him.”
Perhaps they could avoid confrontation. Perhaps they could negotiate; they had not managed to speak to anyone from Khelt in a position of authority. She was casting around. Jilthread would be good backup. And Manoset, though he was a hothead.
“Marrieh! Are you coming?”
“Manoset, to me!”
The Prophet and Izreal didn’t understand what the delay was. Both called out, and Marrieh waved a hand at Harvey, but Manoset shouted back.
“I will, Izreal! Just a moment—something is off with my spirit.”
The floating being was skimming over the camp, now, and Marrieh had never seen it doing that before. It was combing through, row by row, in a weird pattern, as if it was…
Searching for something. Marrieh saw the being flying barely over the tents, and she called out, suddenly realizing what it had sensed.
“Manoset, call back your spirit.”
He glanced at her, but he didn’t comply right away. Marrieh began striding over as Thurg’s head lifted, and his too-keen eyes saw the spirit waver—then dive at him and two of the Germinans, who cowered and screamed.
“No—”
There was a flash of light as the spirit struck the ground, cries of alarm—and then Alked Fellbow shed his disguise, ripping the ‘skin’ of his face away as he drew a shortsword. He didn’t curse nor waver—he took two steps forwards, lanced the glowing spirit with his sword, and then jumped.
He frontflipped over the spirit as it lashed out at him, then slashed across its head again. Two killing blows, which tore some of its light body away but didn’t harm it. Then Alked Fellbow was sprinting away.
“What are you doing? What—Thurg?”
Manoset was dumbfounded, but Yirene called out, panicked.
“It’s Alked Fellbow! Protect the Prophet!”
Gasps, then screams. The faithful flung themselves in front of Harvey, and he shouted.
“Get back! Battle prayers! Capture him! Don’t let him get away—Marrieh! Marrieh, stand back!”
She was running at Fellbow, trying to stop him. They had to capture him without killing him—but he was fast. He sprinted back as the divine spirit gave chase, emitting sounds like tolling bells. He slashed as it struck at him, and it missed, overshooting him—
Halted in the air. It had perfect control and dealt him a blow to the side of his face. He stabbed it thrice, snarling, and Marrieh saw his skin burst into white flames for a second, then he was twisting away.
Just like the Fury of Skies had found, even regular magic didn’t do well against it. Alked leapt back again.
“[Reset Leap]. Not a Djinni.”
His shortsword rammed into its sheath, and he pulled something from his bag of holding. A bow.
The Arc of Heavens rose as the spirit flew at him, chiming with wrath, and Alked’s eyes swivelled to Marrieh. She shouted.
“Stop! This doesn’t have to come to blood! Stop, Manoset!”
The spirit didn’t stop. Alked Fellbow took one long step back as it flew at him, fearless, straight as an arrow. He spoke.
“[Bound Skill: Arrow of Radiance]. [Timed Activation].”
He fired, point-blank, spun—
The world went white. Marrieh hit the ground, blind, shielding her face, and heard a terrible shriek, a divine, beautiful voice tolling and then cracking like a bell of glass breaking…
When she heard pounding footsteps and someone healed her to restore her vision, Alked Fellbow was running, firing arrows at the few faithful on horseback who were knocked off their saddles by blunted arrowtips. She shouted, but he was gone.
And the spirit was gone too. Destroyed. The Prophet stood there as Manoset stood, face white.
“It—it will surely return.”
But in how long? And it had been bested. Marrieh went to remonstrate with Manoset for his foolishness, but the Prophet lifted a hand and spoke.
“It is clear our enemy sends spies among us. They were uncovered thanks to Yirene’s wisdom and the spirit. Marrieh, my bravest and first follower, I wish you did not endanger yourself so. Look upon all these people and know they are our most glorious.”
He spoke to everyone, and they listened. Then Harvey glanced at the scorched place the spirit had been and nodded.
“And know this: many are the ways of God and glorious are all his works, even the least of them. The Named Adventurer bested a mere spirit, but the true Heavenly Host is without number. Do not call it an angel. When one descends, you shall know it.”
Then they returned to his camp to continue to bring Khelt to battle.
 
——
 
Alked Fellbow’s cheek hurt for days thereafter. Not enough to use a healing potion, but he kept tabs on it constantly to make sure he hadn’t been hit by some kind of spreading damage.
He cursed his inability to enter the camp proper—he didn’t know how they’d uncovered him. He’d felt like they’d noticed his presence before he even got found out by that summoned being.
His report to Fetohep was terse.
 
Alked: Infiltration of the camps failed. Prophet’s followers have unique abilities. Creation of seemingly-real wine, water, bread. Anti-slaver links. Far more numbers than previous reports indicated. High levels. 
They are disorganized. I have identified several leaders, attaching names and descriptions below. They also possess some detection abilities, though only a few are employed. I was forced to battle a summoned being of considerable ability. One rank below a Lesser Djinni in danger, highly resistant to damage, even magic. Light appeared to diffuse it.
My cover was broken in the battle. I have retreated without injury.
 
He didn’t count the cheek punch. Alked mused for a moment longer, but he felt like it was pertinent information, and he wrote slowly.
 
It is my belief that the summoned being may have noticed my presence, but it did not attack me specifically. It was attempting to assault two other new ‘faithful’ near me. 
The Quarass of Germina may owe Khelt a favor.
 
But that was just a suspicion. He sent the [Message] spell. The People of God were not stopping, that was sure. Perhaps he should have put an arrow through the Prophet’s head when he had a chance, but…Alked didn’t like killing people outright. Kill that man and you might have someone else take over and only see escalation. He wondered if he’d regret his choice, but it was hard.
Hemp-folk like him, mostly. Hard to shoot them. He sighed. Then got back to work.
 
——
 
The beginning of the year and Khelt’s woes were not noticed by many nations. There was just too much else going on.
New Lands, upheavals at sea, war with the King of Destruction—even in Chandrar, there were distractions.
Like the Horns of Hammerad. It was all far more exciting than Eternal Khelt, and Fetohep himself appeared on the news as if nothing was wrong.
Of course, some nations were a bit more perspicacious, and they did notice oddities, starting with the Jaws. High King Perric, the Claiven Earth, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, countless big players had tabs on Khelt, and when rumors reached them that the Prophet hadn’t been immediately expunged for crossing Khelt, they had questions. Just like about the Jaws’ rampage.
So they relied on their spies, their carefully-sourced windows into the nation. There was always a traitor or a fool one could dupe into communicating with the outside world. High King Perric himself knew of his best source of information into Khelt, and he shared it in confidentiality with his top [Generals].
“Not that one crosses Fetohep, of course, but we must spy, and I am sure he is aware of such matters and acknowledges mice are everywhere, ha-ha.”
Some of his [Generals] exchanged glances, but the room was well-aware of Perric’s high esteem for the Revenant. However, they were curious. One man, the [High Admiral of Coasts], leaned forwards.
“You have a direct source of information in Khelt, Your Majesty? I’ve heard it’s all but impossible!”
Perric stroked his beard smugly.
“Yes, well. I have not only a source, but a highly-placed member of Khelt’s courts, such as they are. One of my own concubines, the Djinni, Maef, corresponds with someone who visits the palace regularly.”
His eyes glittered as the men in the room shuddered at the thought of having a Djinni in bed, or looked at Perric with admiration. He waved this all off as his due.
“Don’t fret about Khelt. This Prophet isn’t doing anything at all but annoying His Majesty. They’re hard to track down due to some Skill as we know, but they’re only tolerated because a former citizen, some Adoive fellow, is with them. But for them, he’d squash the lot, but that’s a [King] for you.”
Ah, of course. That made sense. Everyone nodded and turned their attention to the war in Jecrass.
 
——
 
The same for the Claiven Earth, actually. The Speaker of Trees was scribing in a [Message] scroll as Joreldyn reported his findings on that circlet Ceria Springwalker had been wearing. Nothing too much of note since she was already long gone, but the half-Elves, like Fetohep, had well managed kingdoms and not much else to do.
The New Lands, the King of Destruction, Khelt, and the Horns were the only places in which they had any stakes outside of their home, and the Speaker of Trees sighed.
“That child…I truly wish we had more contact with home. Then I would understand the Village of the Spring better and not just through old stories and other members. Enough about her. I trust you to know magic better than I. As for Khelt, I am assured by my contact inside that the Prophet of God has done barely more than skulk around the borders.”
Joreldyn raised his brows.
“You have a contact?”
“Of sorts. I cultivated it myself, since I felt it was needed. A stroke of luck, really. It’s the only way one finds out anything in Khelt.”
When he showed Joreldyn the chat logs, the Mage of Rivers sighed.
“Of course. Wistram’s new message rooms. Er…who is ‘SexyAir’?”
He read one of the usernames, and the Speaker of Trees flushed slightly.
“This is all above-board, Mage of Rivers.”
“You’re flirting with her.”
“This is all in service to the Claiven Earth! Look, here’s the important part.”
He pointed, and the Mage of Rivers read.
 
Quiescent Bloom: We should all meet up in person sometime. I should be delighted to buy you all drinks, especially if half your promises come true, Air.
SexyAir: You tease! I’m married! But I’m down~
RealStitching: Scandalous! I approve!
Potgirl: I would love to meet all of you as well! Sometimes, it feels like you’re my only friends…
SexyAir: We’re here for you, child!
RealStitching: Absolutely. How was your day? Anything new happening in Khelt?
Potgirl: Well, I was called back to the palace again…
Quiescent Bloom: You appear to go there nonstop.
Potgirl: The hazards of being one of the few people who has high levels. You repair some unenchanted flagstones once when all the other day-servants can’t even pick up a trowel and His Majesty calls upon you. You won’t believe what’s going on now.
SexyAir: More insects? It’s really not bad here.
 
The Mage of Rivers sighed.
“Ah, a young Kheltian?”
“Pewerthe the Potter, I believe. A penpal. She was eager to chat when Wistram rolled the feature out; most Kheltians were, but they’re disinterested in their own nation’s goings-on. Pewerthe, on the other hand, is a goldmine of information because she appears to be often called to the palace as a capable woman.”
“She sounds young, even by Human standards. Is she Human?”
“I believe so, and she is…but in Khelt, age is almost as irrelevant as for us. Needless to say, this Prophet appears largely overblown. He’s been allowed in only by virtue of keeping one member of Khelt hostage, and resolving the issue is why they’re so delayed.”
The Mage of Rivers snorted.
“That sounds like Khelt. Though I would not wish to be this People of God when the man is freed. Death might be a kindness—well, King Fetohep is kinder than his predecessor would be. She’d feed them to her gardens.”
The Speaker nodded, and that was that. He kept chatting along, pumping his well for information. He felt guilty, at times, because he suspected the other people in their private chatrooms were just as false friends as he.
He even suspected that ‘SexyAir’ might be Maef, Perric’s personal Djinni. But one did what one must. Taking advantage of a lonely Kheltian girl’s kindness was the least of the things a leader of a nation had to do. He just felt ashamed.
 
——
 
Pewerthe the Potter smiled as she wrote to her best friends throughout the day. Smiled, because this was one of the few things that made her feel good in the world and her service to Khelt.
Oh, not because she was lonely. It was just that as Fetohep’s heir, she wanted to do something for this nation in jeopardy, but she was no good fighter, administrator, leader, or anything else. She was learning from him, but she sometimes wondered if anyone else could fill her role better.
…But this was useful. Especially because she had several such chatrooms with people eager to know what was going on in Khelt.
King Perric’s Djinni, the Speaker of Trees, the Master of Spies in Nerrhavia’s Fallen…this particular chatroom was easy to feed lies to. When she showed it to King Fetohep when he worried about the other nations noticing the Prophet’s actions, he just stared at the messages for a second.
“Why…‘SexyAir’?”
“It is the style of the thing, and she’s a Djinni, Fetohep. It’s not very hard.”
“Far less difficult than turning a pack of [Bandits] upon one another?”
She smiled at him as her mind flashed to far, far worse moments in her life.
“Far less. Though I don’t even have to turn them against each other, just lie. But it won’t hold forever. The Prophet’s actions are spreading throughout Khelt. And your people are noticing the skeletons.”
Her fingers hurt from writing all day and making pots. Fetohep glanced at her muddy work clothes and sighed as he motioned a servant to sweep up after her. One came in, chasing a beetle but too afraid to pick it up, even with the dustpan, and he and Pewerthe stared at it.
“We should redouble your lessons, Pewerthe.”
“I need time to rest and make pots, Your Majesty. And I truly think you should go back to Captain Galbram and hire him. This [Mercenary] group cannot stop the Prophet.”
“His intrusion into Khelt would cause too much havoc. It would expose our weakness.”
Pewerthe shifted impatiently on her feet.
“Perhaps, but it is necessary. Alked cannot halt them without their deaths. Armed men and women cannot. Your skeletons cannot.”
“I have prevailed upon Commander Nava to redouble her efforts, and she intends to strike their camps directly. I have also requested more mercenaries willing to adhere to my limitations to enter Khelt. It shall be fine, Pewerthe.”
“If you would just—”
Now she grew angry, but he cut her off, and there was the moment when he was a ruler and she was not.
“Pewerthe. The dignity of Khelt cannot be sullied. When you rule, you must remember that.”
She stopped, and the servant peeked at her as she replied.
“Your Majesty. You chose me for a reason amongst all of Khelt’s people. Was it not because I had perspectives unique to Khelt?”
He nodded slowly.
“You were born of Khelt, but you have seen the world beyond. You are adaptable of mind, loyal—and brave. Some have these qualities in Khelt; none have all three as you do.”
She smiled and bowed, and her heart hurt with the trust he had in a mere [Potter], but she wanted to answer it. Yet she had to chide him.
“But Fetohep, you also chose me because I have gone through what few other Kheltians have. And I think…yes, I think it is something even you lack.”
“Oh? What quality have you cultivated that I have not in my hundreds of years of service?”
One brow raised, she spoke without flinching away from his golden stare.
“Defeat, Fetohep. You have never been the lesser in any moment. Never had to swallow your pride in order to survive. I am telling you to call for Captain Galbram, to ask the Herdmistress for help. Or the Quarass or anyone.”
Then he hesitated. The King of Khelt looked at Pewerthe, then turned his head abruptly.
“The Quarass already extracts enough favors for her silence. I shall…consider Captain Galbram. Or perhaps other…yes, other means.”
She hoped that meant he’d relent. But all she could do was bow, then return to her kilns. She began making pots. Not good ones, not great ones. Just putting mud on the wheels, spinning them into containers, baking them—a few people stopped by to eye her work, but walked on at once. They were poor, shoddy pots. Not with much art to them.
She just made lots of them. Pot after pot as the stress upon her and Khelt grew. It was all she could do.
 
——
 
Then came the [Palace of Fates].
It did not affect Khelt, well, at all. In the scheme of things, it was an event that only concerned King Fetohep of Khelt.
—It just affected him personally. Distracted him, perhaps. Took his focus from his people, who had continued to line up and beg for more skeletons to do work. And begun to protest…the new citizens of Khelt.
Specifically those in New Jecrass. Not the Gnolls or Centaurs. That was a—a bad look, but the Jecrassians? What had they done for Khelt? Why were they worthy of it?
At first, they were quiet, but in the way of people who were not getting what they wanted, they learned quite quickly how to be louder. And they would protest in earshot of the throne room and in other cities to officials.
The bugs, you see? Your Majesty?
He was busy. Busy thinking of an [Innkeeper]’s words to him, writing to a little white Gnoll child. For a time.
Erin Solstice would not be Khelt’s ruler. She had told him that, and it was unclear which blow struck him harder. That unimaginable event he was only part witness to, a tragedy they did not wish to tell him, to avoid burdening his conscience, or the woman he felt could work wonders turning her back on the kingdom she owed too much to.
But he said nothing. Erin Solstice was, if no ruler, a citizen of Khelt. And Mrsha was a child. The Kingdom of Khelt had no end of generosity for either. The world for a single soul of Khelt and damn the rest.
Damn the rest.
 
——
 
One final nation had a bearing on Khelt, though it was so removed as to literally be a continent away. Far to the west of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, past the Great Desert, down along the coast of kingdoms who had not felt the King of Destruction’s return in the form of war, lay that famous city on the coast.
It smelled, even now, of dust. When the wind blew into the high tower in which they had gathered, all those below went still in Lailight Scintillation’s harbors. Even the wind was trauma. As was a name.
“Fetohep of Khelt.”
Thatalocian the [Numerologist], Slave Lord of Roshal, spoke the name and saw the others flinch. Each one. Not in the same way, but it was a weakness, to him.
Names were power, of course, but this was a foe.
So why did Emir Yazdil, in his Human form, recoil and jerk back from the window? Shaullile jabbed her thumb with some embroidery. Andra, half-floating above her ruined body, stopped counting and gazed at him, eyes wide. Even Pazeral, the arrogant Jinn-ruler of ages past, scowled and opened his eyes. Rage masking fear in the latter’s case, but it was a reaction to a name.
“What of him, Thatalocian? We are about greater business.”
“Can there be greater business or greater foes?”
Thatalocian shot back. The others traded glances, and Andra spoke in that halting voice, a half-ethereal whisper as her mortal form shook and tried to lift the quill to write in precise notation.
“T-Thatalocian. You speak not at all in these m-meetings but to interject nonsense and m-made up numbers. Now you change the subject at your whims.”
“I am not a governor of logistics like you, Andra. Nor do I care about much of what is said. I do not know the Walled Cities well. In my day—”
Oh dead gods, here he goes again. The other [Slave Lords] stared at the ceiling or floor as Thatalocian went on, unmoved.
“—they were isolated bastions, more so than even Roshal. Let Shaullile do what she wills there.”
“And what of her budget? Our involvement there? The manpower she asks about? Who to press and who to avoid? Your thoughts on favoring any city would be…?”
Yazdil was annoyed now by the interruption, and he glided over, all silken tongue and cunning mind. Thatalocian met his eyes.
“Give her what she wants.”
“Oh, thank you, Thatalocian!”
Shaullile beamed at him, but even she rolled her eyes. That truly was how the second-oldest [Slave Lord] operated. Andra’s voice was impatient, unhappy. She was trapped between life and death, and only her work seemed to give her any joy, though how she found it in shuffling paper, Thatalocian could not know.
“Thatalocian. A question. In your day, how well-provisioned was Roshal? Did your people ever suffer from shortages of food? Lack of coin or material?”
He smiled at her, pleased by her curiosity, and answered honestly as he almost always did.
“Often, we starved or lacked for many things.”
“P-predictable.”
“I pour as much is needed upon the pyre. If it is wasteful, I would rather it be done than not. This is my quality which you observe of me. I am not useful as Shaullile or the Emir or even Pazeral.”
“Not at all as of late. Even I have worked some magics and taught sword arts. You? Drowned a [Slave Captain], took a single Demon as a slave, and annoyed our allies in Rhir.”
Pazeral stretched, yawning. Thatalocian raised his brows.
“I have uncovered truth. But as I say, I am not useful. So when I speak: listen. This is my value. Khelt. 11-8-5-12-20.”
“Oh, ceaseless chains, he’s counting again. Make it stop!”
Shaullile held her claws over her ears, and even Yazdil appeared sick of this. Not even the Emir could understand Thatalocian’s numerology. He tried anyways.
“I, ah…assume you saw eleven seagulls at breakfast, and perhaps you had eight berries in your porridge, Lord Thatalocian?”
Everyone laughed, and the [Numerologist] scratched at the left side of his face. He had been healed, but the memory of being burnt across half his body lingered with him. Andra had half-died, the others being more shocked than killed. Though he wasn’t sure how Shaullile had survived; the others had been able to protect themselves, but she—?
“A close guess, but too random, Emir. I simply asked the Demoness, Vrikeyre, to think of a number. She said fifty-six.”
“…The sum of all Khelt’s numbers. Rather convenient how any number matters, doesn’t it, Thatalocian?”
The [Slave Lord] laughed at Yazdil’s cynical comment.
“No, I knew it mattered, Yazdil. She has given me false numbers made to manipulate me many times. But in this case, it was fifty-six. Auspicious.”
“How?”
“Simple. She has seven arms on her body. She used to have eight. Eight and seven. Fifty-six. The match—”
The [Slave Lords] groaned. Pazeral stood up and began banging his forehead against a pillar in Andra’s office. Trying to remove Thatalocian’s logic from his brain.
In a way, despite their return to life, despite the power of Roshal and their bathing in pleasures, there was nothing worse for them than having Thatalocian as a sworn companion and ally. But his logic was simple.
“Our enemies wax in number and power. Or will you leave both Khelt and the Antinium unmarked?”
All went silent, and every eye turned to Andra, who flinched and shook in her ghostly containment.
“I—I do not motion to continue these costly and needless battles with our enemies! Not until proper safeguards have been established!”
“And I would rather fight with allies, which we don’t have, than alone.”
Shaullile spoke, and Pazeral glared fire.
“In my time, we would already have sent wrath on carpets and wing!”
Yazdil nodded slightly; in this, they were in alignment.
“The Blighted Kingdom has already been made aware of the issue and threat. Notwithstanding our issue raised with Lord Thatalocian, they have received another ship’s donation—”
“Paying for another to wage your wars.”
Thatalocian’s sneer cut Yazdil short, and the Emir’s eyes narrowed to slits. But that was the issue. They could vote to action, but Andra and Shaullile were largely peaceful. Yazdil and Pazeral favored more direct action. They could form separate camps; when it came to other matters, it might be Pazeral and Shaullile versus Yazdil and Andra on expenditures or liberties of [Slavers].
Thatalocian was the tiebreaker, which meant they had to be cordial with him, but dead gods, he was aggravating. Not that theirs was a true democracy; they were just pretending towards it until one of them had enough power to force the others to heel.
I knew this as well, in my time, though you all would laugh at me to hear it. Yet this is still all inwards, all personal. Roshal, the nation itself, the idea, was what Thatalocian prized more than his power, and some of them saw it.
Yazdil, Shaullile, even Andra, in her way, saw that Roshal was greater than them. Only Pazeral was selfish, because Roshal was him. So, Thatalocian pushed himself up from the table.
“The Antinium I do not know. Nor will I push for retaliation. Let Shaullile deal with Izril. Then leave Khelt to me. That is my request.”
All of them glanced up sharply, and Yazdil recoiled.
“If you endanger Roshal—”
“Emir Yazdil, I have lived a lifetime in Roshal’s name. Do you think I intend to damage it?”
Even the worried Emir, most traumatized by an attack on his home, hesitated. He had never known such devastation as Fetohep had wrought. He had never died. The other three had, but they all watched Thatalocian and shared the same thought.
If there was one of them who would selfishly act on their behalf…
“Agreed.”
“I a-agree.”
“If it shuts you up, agreed.”
Yazdil nodded after a moment, and Thatalocian smiled. He stood up and nodded.
“Then I go to ruminate on Khelt. If you must vote, my answer is 1-1-2-1. You may decide which number means yes, the other no.”
They watched him go, and after a second, Andra’s head thunked onto the enchanted desk hovering around her.
 
——
 
Rather to her surprise, Thatalocian ended up returning to Andra’s office after the others had finished their deliberations.
She sat, her body shivering in the floating prison they had built for her soul, healing magics and preservation spells flashing around her, a desk floating there which her ghostly form could write on.
She was cold. It hurt. The pain of that—that—thing burning her still tore at her very essence, and she no longer felt young. She no longer felt dead. She was caught in between, and the misery of it nearly had her send for a favored slave, but what was the point?
Sensation was muted. So she wrote, stabbing trails of ink from her quill, managing Roshal—which no one else could do—until she jerked.
“Securit—”
Thatalocian at the doors. Andra stopped recoiling and snapped icily.
“I told you to introduce yourself, Thatalocian. What is it you d-desire? I am in no mood for small-c-chat.”
He stood in her doorway, a hunched, bald man with his curious lamp of numbers at his hips, plain, like some [Monk], not a man of station. She wore a business-suit, but she knew the jerking, sometimes-incontinent corpse no longer was a beautiful woman. Unhappy. To her surprise, his eyes fixed on her with sympathy.
“It has barely been time at all since you were wounded. I ask how you feel, Andra. If you should will to tell me.”
No one but the [Healers] had asked that. Andra hesitated, then lowered the quill, though her mind still wrote words out.
[Trade Spike: Sulfur]. Must acquire. Blockaded by Magnolia Reinhart, Izril. [Item Embargo]. Can overturn. [Seller’s Market]. Identified clients (order of profitability): Rhir, Ailendamus, Roshal? (investigate, [Flag Thought]), Kaaz…
A woman of numbers herself, only no warrior. Not brave like he was. She cursed it now as she spoke.
“H-how does it feel? It hurts, Thatalocian. All my joys diminished. This body—! They say it may heal, but if not, I will be a ghost again. Only taking another f-form will be difficult. I might lose another ten levels.”
Then she would be inferior. Expendable. The [Healers] gave her a 30% chance of her body surviving. They were confident they could salvage her soul…what hadn’t been damaged…but ten more levels?
She shouldn’t have told him that, but he tended to figure things out regardless, and he’d saved her and Shaullile from the Emir’s attacks when they were first reincarnated. Thatalocian’s nod was somber.
“If it is necessary, I will safeguard this secret or even weave you a Logic Cage to keep the others from knowing as best I can, Andra. Even if you lose more levels, you are still a true Lady of Roshal. Treating you with due respect for your capabilities, if not your levels, is wise.”
She grunted and added some points to her trustworthiness score of him as an ally. She spoke, irritably scribbling a note for a tonic to make her feel better.
“Your concern is…appreciated. What do you w-want, Thatalocian?”
Another nod.
“I need you to move people, perhaps items, certainly horses or wagons and provisions, to a location I have found on a map. Fast as you can. I will be in their company and will make the journey faster.”
Dead gods. He had a map, and he pointed to it, and her mouth opened.
“That is a telling…what are you planning? How many?”
He gave her a blank look.
“I do not know. Enough.”
She almost threw the ink pot at him. Andra grew worried despite herself.
“T-Thatalocian, if you are planning something dangerous…”
“Andra. Trust me.”
She laughed as she tried to wet too-dry lips with her tongue, a ghost and body moving out-of-sync.
“Trust is not a quality of Roshal that I knew, Thatalocian. In my time.”
He stood before her, eyes like numerals blinking up at her, solemn.
“Then I shall teach it to you. But I require your help, Andra. I could organize this, alone, but I trust you with my designs. We have acted alone despite our gathering in concert. Now, one of the Masters of Roshal works with another. Shall we see what it creates?”
She stared at him, then wiped some drool from the corner of her mouth and grinned. Andra’s hand jerked as she raised her quill and touched it down upon the paper.
“T-this is why you have need of me. [Perfect Orchestration: They Came Upon the Bazaar, Every Chain Gleaming, Smiles Upon Every Face].”
The numbers danced as she wrote out a list, gave orders in that stuttering voice, and moved Roshal. People, places, logistics—until they reached his eyes and became a value only he could calculate.
 
——
 
Adventurer Frieke woke one morning and saw her neighbor, Mistreq, plastering a poster on their walls. It read:
 
Gathering at the Sereptian Plaza all day! Bring a sign to tell His Majesty all is not well! New Jecrass is not Khelt!
 
There was also a rather good illustration of the beetles she had to kill now and then with a red line through them. He didn’t look happy.
He seemed rather stressed, in fact, and she paused as Konska pecked at the poster.
“Another, er, gathering, Mistreq?”
“Yes, Adventurer Frieke. It might all be acceptable to you, but I wish to show you the standards Khelt should conform to! His Majesty is ignoring us, and he—he has never done that before. You wouldn’t care to join us?”
The unhappy Stitch-man turned, and Frieke held up her hands.
“I, uh, have a breakfast engagement. And then I’m adventuring.”
“Of course.”
They stood there awkwardly in that way of people who had no small-talk left but felt like they should at least pretend to have a conversation, and Frieke glanced around.
“…Got any more bugs to squash? I have a moment.”
Mistreq shook his head.
“No. There was a nest of those beetle things, you know. They’d hollowed out part of the wall and laid a nest of these little…larvae…and some kind of grey residue that made the nest.”
“Oh no! How dreadful! I can get rid of that!”
And it’d solve him coming to her for help! Frieke offered, but Mistreq gave her a pale smile.
“No need. I, ah, destroyed it myself.”
Konska and Frieke peered at him, astonished.
“You did? How?”
“Well, you had gone, and no one else was willing to—so I found as much dry wood as I could. One of my chairs, three pillows, and shoved it closer. Thankfully, the beetles didn’t notice it, and starting a fire…well, I had to start some fire and then throw it at the kindling. Then it went up—it took near an hour to burn it fully, and I had to put coals into the hole as they tried to come out—!”
Frieke felt a peck on her shoulder. She glanced sideways and peered down from the second floor apartment to the courtyard below. A rather huge section of one of the walls was burnt completely black and even melted inwards. By, say, a giant bonfire? She thought she saw a tiny fist-sized hole in the center of the structural deformity but that was probably her imagination.
She turned back to Mistreq, who was shuddering.
“How—it was quite difficult, Adventurer Frieke. How would you have done it?”
“Well…you did good on your first time, Mistreq. I used to have to clean up bugs as a [Street Rat] for coppers. If I had to do it? As a kid, you just took a rock and some rags and wrapped it around your hand and squished everything. But since we’re a bit more refined—”
He’d gone pale, and Frieke hurried on.
“Probably, I’d take those embers and shove them in the hole and seal it up. Burn the suckers to death.”
“Some would fly out, though, surely? And I imagine they’d get—agitated—how would you deal with that?”
She looked at him and shrugged.
“You have to, um, squash them at some point, Mistreq. Or at least, catch. Even with nets. I suppose you can do it your way, but it might, uh, take an hour. As opposed to a few minutes.”
“That’s what I feared.”
He sagged, then nodded to her. Konska sniggered behind a wing, but Frieke felt a bit bad for the silly fellow. After a moment, Mistreq turned to her.
“It isn’t much like your work, I realized, though.”
“Hm?”
She was strolling onwards, but turned reluctantly, and he gestured at the blackened pit.
“Everyone was telling me how brave I was for getting rid of the insects as His Majesty said, and I even received a bounty. But I didn’t gain the [Hero] class. Your monsters are rather bigger. Insects as large as you are.”
“Some of them, yes.”
Mistreq nodded. Then stared at Frieke as if for the first time.
“How do you fight those?”
She tapped the hilt of her sword.
“Mostly, you stab them to death.”
His eyes focused on the sword, and for the first time, Frieke thought that someone in Khelt actually got what that meant, a bit. Then he went to protest, and she went to meet with Pewerthe.
 
——
 
It wasn’t like she had anything better to do. Which astonished and annoyed Pewerthe as they breakfasted on some Liscorian-themed foods. Earth-style pancakes drizzled with Ashfire Bee honey and fruits. A sign at their table warned them that eating outside might attract flies, but they didn’t care.
“His Majesty hasn’t sent for you? But Alked’s at the border trying to deal with you know who.”
Pewerthe appeared tired. And muddy from her clay work. She was not very popular in the city right now, because as a Fetohep apologist and someone who went to the palace, lots of citizens took their frustrations out on her. Frieke had these breakfasts to help Pewerthe, and she ducked her head, embarrassed.
“Well, His Majesty seems to think I’m—”
There was a scream from within the restaurant. Both women turned. Frieke had sword in hand, Pewerthe a pot. Someone came out of the kitchen. The [Cook], screaming.
“Something’s in my flour! Something’s in the—”
They relaxed. Konska groaned, hopped into the kitchen, and Frieke whispered.
“Maggots in the flour. Konska can handle it.”
“Oh, yuck. That actually deserves a scream.”
They went back to breakfast as everyone else lost their appetite. Frieke glanced around. This…wasn’t a rare occurrence these days. All these bug incidents—she was surprised the entire kingdom wasn’t more up in arms. Frankly, from how Mistreq reacted, she would have thought every Kheltian would be out on the streets, but it still seemed like a simmering pot.
Not that this was good, but Fetohep was acting like it was fine, and his citizens still seemed to be largely buying it. Pewerthe played with the pot, opening and closing the lid. It wasn’t a good pot, just hand-sized and rough. Maybe it was the one you threw at a problem.
“So what about His Majesty not using you?”
“Oh, that. I asked if he would, and he said he requires nothing of me. I’m…well, I’m a citizen of Khelt. And I should want for nothing. In his eyes, I suppose I’m equal to everyone else.”
Pewerthe stared at Frieke, and the smile the Named-ranker wore was both happy and a bit forlorn. Once more as yet again, the exalted and impartial rule of King Fetohep.
She Who Would be Queen Pewerthe took one bite of her pancakes, gagged, spat a baked maggot onto the table, and pushed her plate back. She stood, eyes flashing.
“Fetohep is wrong. I’m conscripting you, Frieke. You work for me. If you don’t have a job, you report to my potter’s shop each morning.”
Frieke stirred, much like the maggot writhing a bit on the blown glass table. She blinked at Pewerthe, then raised a hand.
“I am?”
“Yes.”
“Against my will?”
“Yes.”
“Do I get paid?”
Pewerthe shook her head.
“We don’t use real money here, and I don’t have any, so no.”
Frieke the Falcon considered all this as Konska poked his head out of the kitchen to say ‘hey, maybe this [Cook] had better close everything down because there’s a lot of insects in her food’ as Frieke stared at Pewerthe. Then the adventurer stood and nodded.
“Okay, then.”
She looked rather pleased.
 
——
 
When Frieke was presented to Fetohep as a second Named-rank adventurer to deal with the Prophet’s minions, despite her clear reluctance to have to fight and risk her life against the People of God, Pewerthe expected understanding. What she got was a golden glare.
“Pewerthe, I promised Frieke of Medain citizenship upon no conditions. She is a citizen of Khelt!”
“And Khelt needs her to act!”
“If I do not require this of all my citizens, then I shall not single her out.”
“Well, I do. That is my will, and we cannot deal with these issues without asking some of our most capable citizens to take arms, at least! Or what of Alked? We must ask Geraeri or the Gnolls to help us!”
Frieke stood awkwardly as the two glared at each other, and Fetohep lifted a finger.
“Fellbow has volunteered his services of his own accord, and I intend to reward him for his service. As for that wretched Prophet and the failings of mere [Mercenaries]…the Herdmistress is not required yet.”
He sat back, steepling his fingers, and Pewerthe eyed the king, genuinely annoyed. Frieke was saved from having Pewerthe throw a pot at the Eternal King of Khelt by a horncall. Then King Fetohep’s gaze brightened, and he smiled down at Pewerthe.
You see?
And they saw.
 
——
 
There were twenty-one men and women in the front ranks of the small army that had ridden into Koirezune. Mere [Mercenaries], like those already contracted for Khelt.
Or they had been. But what separated these kneeling figures from the others, the reason by which Fetohep knew them all by name, was simple: they had been here before.
When King Fetohep of Khelt had made his now-famous ride towards the sea and sailed upon the Meeting of Tribes, twenty-one men and women had emerged from their city gates. They had ridden with the Dragonward Bells singing damnation and taken part in a journey of legends.
It had not mattered that they had little strength of actual arms. Their bravery had carried them across the sea and back, and he had rewarded them.
These were the [Riders] from Dovive, whom Fetohep had showered with gifts after the Meeting of Tribes. They had left with Khelt’s friendship, and now, in their hour of need, Khelt had called for aid.
Fetohep was rather proud of himself, and he smiled as they knelt before him in his throne room. Each one, he was pleased to note, had not only levelled, but consolidated their classes.
“We are now all members of Dovive’s army, Your Majesty. When you requested our aid, the city released us and a thousand of our [Riders] to deal with this Prophet.”
The man who spoke for their group had been a [Mercenary] months ago; now he was [Coin Rider] Lashivet, and he looked better. Not…the highest of levels, but Fetohep had not given the man a decade to mature.
This was enough. They had come, and Fetohep bade them rise.
“Your actions do not go unnoticed, Lashivet, Triekas, Vilyet…”
They stood in awe of him twice, but they had come to do business. Dovive was not rich, but it mattered little. Fetohep first had them banqueted, as was proper, and only afterwards did he relay some details. He could trust them more than the [Mercenaries], so he was forthcoming with information.
“These People of God have an ability that damages undead greatly. Hence my unwillingness to waste my undead to no end. It is my intent that Dovive’s forces sweep the Prophet’s forces aside. They move constantly, but Alked Fellbow is tracking their main camp. They have great numbers, but most are not warriors.”
“How many, Your Majesty?”
When he told them the numbers, Lashivet swallowed, but Fetohep lifted a hand and smiled.
“I do not mistake the odds, friends of Khelt. I intend to arm Dovive’s forces adequately for the expedition. Each rider in your company shall be issued an enchanted weapon. Not of great strength, but enough.”
Triekas’ mouth hung open, then she burst out.
“T-that would do it, Your Majesty! With a Named-ranker at our backs, we could scatter them. ‘Specially if we get that Prophet.”
“Alive would be my preference, but it is optional, regardless. Do this for me and I shall ensure Dovive is handsomely rewarded.”
And perhaps then see about hiring some people who can act as cleaners? Fetohep was still highly resistant to bringing anyone into his cities, be it foreign workers or [Slaves]. In his experience, that lent itself to second-class citizens, and he did not wish that for his nation.
But he was so relieved by this simple solution that he bade the forces of Dovive set out the next day. Without Adventurer Frieke.
Pewerthe was so upset she came storming into his throne room at near midnight when she heard this, but Fetohep had meant what he said.
“One Named-rank Adventurer shall make no difference here, Pewerthe. Neither your assistance, nor the Quarass’, are necessary.”
The Quarass had in fact called him six times that week, offering her own forces or agents as methods for dealing with the Prophet. She had seemed entirely off-put by his refusals.
“Fetohep, it is one thing to limit the actions of [Mercenaries], another to refuse the aid of a Shield Kingdom!”
He glanced at her as he sipped from a goblet.
“I would not wish Germina to bestir itself unduly, Quarass. This issue is adroitly handled.”
She hesitated, chewing on a grape as she lounged in the gardens next to her palace.
“I would trust to Germina more than any other force…”
“And I as well. However, though Khelt’s largesse is infinite, my propensity to spend it is not. Good day to you once more, Quarass.”
He’d had the satisfaction of cutting her off. The King of Khelt had grown quite tired of her extortion. He rewarded, he did not pay. 
Both Pewerthe and the Quarass would see…the King of Khelt sat back on his throne, passing the long night in eager anticipation of the next day. But when battle was joined—
Ah.
He saw faith meet magic for the first time.
 
——
 
The Prophet didn’t know what hit his camps at first. The riders swept down out of the darkness with undead, and the faithful were fighting when Marrieh tore the flaps of his tent open.
“Prophet, we’re under attack!”
A thousand [Riders] plus [Mercenaries] on foot assailed the Prophet’s camp, and at first, it was almost a rout. Screaming people fled, and those with weapons were cut down or even subdued without death—they were coming for the Prophet, and they might have succeeded except for two things.
The first was Marrieh and the militant arm of the People of God, who formed a line of bodies around the tent and met the [Riders] in a clash of arms that took all of them off-guard.
A Stitch-man armed with a glowing lance taken from one of the Terandrian [Knights] who had led the Crusade against Khelt rode down on Marrieh who stood, club in one hand, a buckler in the other. She set herself, and the tiny buckler met the lance as the rider thundered at her.
“[Faith is My Shield]!”
Thunder. The lance snapped as a glowing shield adorned by feathered wings flashed for a second, and the [Rider] was hurled back off his saddle as the enchanted item detonated its magic. A surprised [Mercenary] skidded to a halt, and Izreal pointed.
“[Bolt of the Heavens]!”
The lightning struck the ground so hard and fast that only downed bodies and glowing sand remained in the crater it left. The charge towards the Prophet faltered as the faithful turned—and then the [Light of Faith] began to glow.
The undead assailing the camp fell to pieces as it bathed them, and the mortal men and women threw up their hands, blinded. Even Alked Fellbow was left unable to shoot, cursing—and that was when the counterattack began.
The Prophet’s camp was the primary one, but the sheer size of the People of God’s numbers meant that the periphery camps were spaced out around his, and when they saw the attack, they came streaming across the ground, throwing themselves into battle.
The Prophet saw it from the back ranks where massed prayers rang in the air, empowering the People of God, but oh, despite their divine blessings, it was a bloody battle.
Surprised or not, Dovive and the [Mercenaries] were armored warriors, and most of the People of God were not. Only the weight of their numbers kept the soldiers back, and blood began to wet the sand. Panicked [Mercenaries] skewered screaming pilgrims on their blades, and for every one that died, another would get back up, wounds healed.
“Fight! Fight in His name! Retreat!”
The Prophet was trying to pull back from this massacre, and by the sounds of it, Dovive’s forces were doing the same. Alked Fellbow loosed an arrow which turned into a smokescreen, trying to break up the front where Marrieh was throwing herself against the foremost riders.
“Marrieh! Come back! Protect her!”
There was some kind of vanguard. Twenty-one men and women, armored in magical gear, who were trying to cut towards the Prophet, and no one could bring them down. Even as more [Mercenaries] disengaged, terrified by this divine foe, the twenty-one fought forwards another step, then two.
[Massed Prayer: With Flaming Sword In Hand]!
White fire burst along the weapons of the faithful, and the Stitch-folk fighting them recoiled in horror. The Prophet saw Marrieh’s head turn at last, and he shouted.
“Marrieh! Retreat!”
This bloodbath was enough! They had to escape into the desert. She was falling back as Dovive’s lines broke a second. The twenty-one men and women stumbled, eyes burning in the [Light of Faith]’s glow, the flames from those holy weapons keeping them back.
One of them tried to advance on the Prophet, hoisting a glowing javelin in hand. He pulled back for a throw, and a sword thrust forwards. An enchanted blade, which skated off the plate armor that Lashivet wore.
The [Coin Rider] recoiled and slashed at the blade Izreal was wielding two-handed. The man had the blade he’d taken from one of the Golden Ranks of Medain. They clashed, magic weapons shooting sparks of electricity from where they met. Then Izreal shoved Lashivet back, slashed again.
The first time his blade had met the enchanted plate armor, the two enchantments had equalized each other and done little more than scar the armor. This time, the [Warrior of Faith] spoke.
“In His name! [Weapon Art: Divine Cross]!”
His sword flashed, tracing the symbol in the air. Lashivet blocked the downwards slash with a cry of his own.
“[Sterling Parry]—”
His sword went down from the force of the blow, and as he raised it, the horizontal cut struck his breastplate. The glowing blade sliced the enchanted metal without slowing.
The spray of blood struck Vilyet in the face. He flinched, recoiled, and saw his companion drop.
“Lashivet?”
The man lay on the ground as Izreal swung his sword, shouting.
“Advance! Protect the Prophet!”
Lashivet’s eyes were open to the sky, and the blade had slashed through ribs and armor. His blood ran onto the sand as his friends reached for healing potions—which not even Khelt had in abundance—and cried out.
He was dead within a minute. There were dead among both Dovive’s soldiers and the People of God. One man dying on Khelt’s borders, unnoticed except by his companions, who fell back, cradling his body.
Unseen by all but the King of Khelt. Then…the Prophet’s followers began to cry out, and he felt a terrible premonition in the air. Someone shouted.
“Prophet, my [Dangersense]! My [Dangersense] is—”
“Fall back! Retreat! Re—”
He looked up into the sky, thinking the dawning sun had come and then realized it was not the sun he saw, but a far closer glow. A light which swooped down across the skies like some vast bird of prey and touched the earth. Then the explosion swept him off his feet, and he heard nothing at all.
When he arose, the place where Izreal and countless warriors had stood was nothing but a pit of ash. The Prophet stared at the crater as his ears rang and glanced up.
The second of Razzimir’s Arrows struck his camp and followers. Then the third and fourth—as Fetohep of Khelt began to unleash the wrath of Khelt on the People of God.
 
——
 
No matter when or where, annihilation always looked the same. When his head rose and he saw the glowing arrows streaking across the sky in the pre-dawn night, for a moment, he feared his plans had been unravelled.
Feared the unravelling, but did not despair, for a plan was not the be-all, end-all of a battle or scheme. When he saw the trajectory and realized they were not aimed anywhere near him, Thatalocian nodded.
“We are safe. Pick up the pace.”
His voice was the lone one amidst the silent column, and when he stepped forwards, he realized they had frozen. He turned and saw their eyes were wide with terror.
Even Lintl, the young [Slave Guard] whom he had recruited from a ship. As well as the Demoness, Vrikeyre, his only [Slave] as of yet.
Theirs were faces of fear, but Thatalocian had not asked for their company. He had demanded it. Now, he spoke to them, the [Slave Lord] whose finger pointed.
“We are behind schedule.”
“Lord? We have not rested for hours. For—for days!”
They were exhausted from marching through the Great Desert, as if they had not had transport, camels, water, and provisions. In truth, Thatalocian himself was impressed by how far they’d come, but not for the efforts of his company.
It was all Andra. She was truly an expert in what she did, which was move people on paper and in reality with the mere scratches of her quill. It had been fast as he wanted.
Night drop via carpet and Djinni into the Great Desert with provisions, guides, and close enough to get here within days—if they marched hard. She’d estimated a week.
He’d made it three days. His company looked dead on their feet and haggard. They’d left behind the camels. And pack horses. He’d ridden them until they collapsed then had them march. Thatalocian disliked wasting lives of animals or people, but this was to a purpose.
Every hour they risked detection. Speed was essential, and so he kept up his advance, feet churning through the sand. They could barely keep up. Thatalocian seemed an old man, but compared to their parched throats and weary bodies—the [Slave Lord]’s voice deepened.
“I did not ask. You are Roshal’s warriors. I say to you: march.”
They hesitated. Yes, it was true; they wore Roshal’s armor and carried their blades, but they were…[Guards]. [Slave Guards], [Pit Captors], used to warding caravans or standing duty. Not a formal army, but Andra had obliged Thatalocian with as many fit people as she could.
Lintl was first to march. The others began to hurry along, but it was not to Thatalocian’s liking.
“I said march. One-two-three-four. One-two-three—”
His voice took on a thunder, and they flinched as their feet moved to the beat of his words, but he realized this might attract attention. A Skill would. So, he turned and spoke.
“Whip.”
He did not know how to swing the instrument that most of them carried and gazed at the long whip used to lash the backs of [Slaves] in silence. Then he handed it to someone else.
Vrikeyre, the seven-armed Demoness, nearly dropped the whip, and every head turned in incredulity now. The one and only [Slave] in this group—
“Lord? What are you doing?”
“Picking the pace up. Vrikeyre, lash those slowest to the pace. March.”
Thatalocian strode forwards, and the Demoness grinned in that twisted way when he surprised her. Someone protested as Lintl glanced back and then began to jog and run. He knew Thatalocian well enough; the others not at all.
“But she is a [Slave], Lord—”
“Who better to keep the pace? Run.”
“We are free—”
The crack and cry of the tip of the lash striking a woman’s face made them all go silent. The [Slave Guard] turned and drew a blade on Vrikeyre, and the Demoness waited.
The terrible clicking sound that came next was of Thatalocian’s hands gripping the [Slave Guard]’s neck and twisting it around. Every head saw the woman’s face spin around a hundred and eighty degrees, and he dropped her on the cold sands. The [Numerologist] turned, and the whip cracked again.
“Run.”
They ran.
 
——
 
The King of Khelt did not stop firing Arrows of Razzimir as dawn began to rise. The People of God were fleeing in every direction. So the arrows landed in every direction.
His golden eyes blazed in the night as he signalled Alked and the [Mercenaries] and soldiers of Dovive to fall back. Nothing roused him from his black rage.
Nothing—until he turned his head. The opposite direction of the fleeing Prophet. Then he stood.
“Who dares? Arise, all of you! Arise—”
 
——
 
“What is your name, daughter of Roshal?”
Screaming. The dead were coming, but Thatalocian’s voice was like a bubble of silence. Pure sanity in the wake of madness, and the more terrifying and unreal for it.
He turned to a trembling [Soldier] next to Lintl whose eyes rolled up white as the skeletons rose. They were coming, but she—
“Calnous, Lord.”
They would have run, but he had sworn to kill any who fled. Five men and women were already on the ground, and they feared him more than the dead, now. But the skeletons—
Thatalocian bent down and inspected her eyes. The rolling whites, a Stitch-woman’s dusky skin of cotton, pale white hair, not beautiful and pristine—someone who was no master in Lailight Scintillation.
“3-1-12-14-15-21-19. Calnous. We shall measure the meaning of that number. If there is time, after. Calnous, I wish you to repeat something for me.”
“Lord? They’re coming. They’re—”
A mere thousand men and women, none of them over Level 30. Most under that. Any more and Andra had told Thatalocian for all her swiftness, their stealth would not allow them to move undetected and at the speed he wanted. He had been displeased, but told her it would serve.
Ten might have served, but in this, Thatalocian wanted a larger number. Gently, he placed his hand over her eyes.
“Do not think of them. Just these numbers, Calnous. Understand? 8-1-1-4-5. Say it for me?”
“Lord? Eight-one-one-four-five?”
“Again.”
Lintl had torn his eyes away from the oncoming death. He knew that number. He stared, wide-eyed, as the terrified woman said it.
“Eight-one-one-four-five. Eight-one-one-four-five! 8-1-1-4-5. 8-1-1-4-5. What’s going—8-1-1-4-5. H-Haade. Haade. HAADE. 8-1-1—”
Her voice was deepening. And the number was becoming a chant. She was shaking, and Thatalocian took his hand away from her eyes. He stepped backwards, then touched another in the ranks of soldiers. A figure stumbled forwards as Lintl stepped back, and they saw her rising. Thatalocian called out.
“Once more, arise from the depths of time. I summon you, Haade the Ogre! Forwards, Roshal! Through the mindless dead!”
And he was chanting another number as thick flesh burst Calnous’ armor, and her face warped, becoming blunt, huge flat teeth grinding, and hands larger than Lintl’s chest began to smash skeletons downwards. She tore forwards, screaming, as another of Roshal’s number began to jerk and shake. Then Thatalocian was wading forwards, roaring.
“To me! MULDREEM. MULDREEM. 13-21-12—”
Lintl and Vrikeyre were in the front rank. They saw him burst into the skeletons, swinging that lantern and a mace around as his face and voice warped, and they followed.
If they ran, he would kill them. There was terror of the King of Khelt and—this. To slay monsters, sometimes one had to wear their flesh. Lintl shoved his sword through a skeleton’s head as Vrikeyre’s whip cracked and she swung weapons in her other arms.
Running—running—as Thatalocian broke through the skeletons, leaving Haade and the other creatures he’d summoned behind him. Running towards his destination.
A city.
 
——
 
They hit the city as the light began to shine down, and there was nothing to slow them down. No gates, just an ornamental arch. No watch. No defenders.
It was Khelt, after all. Paradise. The safest place in the world until a voice howled like a nightmare from the Long Night and the [Slavers] of Roshal broke through the unlocked doors and dragged screaming people into the streets.
The Slave Lord of Numbers led them, blood running down his face, still roaring orders as he carried the light of reason, smashing the skeletons trying to stop them. When the first citizen of Khelt heard the click of a metal collar around their necks, the skeletons froze, and the others understood.
“Hostages. He’s mad.”
Emir Yazdil was in his saferooms, anticipating armageddon from the skies again any second. But when Pazeral saw the collar lock and the skeletons hesitate, he smiled.
“He is our blood after all.”
He had doubted Thatalocian, but now he saw it. Andra was just as wide-eyed. But Thatalocian had told her what he intended, and he had said to trust him.
“He can’t be serious. He’s got a handful of citizens, and that monster has hundreds of long-ranged spells pointed at us! He’s going to kill us all. He’s—”
Shaullile had no faith in Thatalocian. She looked towards the ceilings, as if expecting death for herself and Thatalocian any second, but it never came.
The attacking skeletons hesitated as they saw the [Slavers] halt, shielding themselves with the citizens they’d grabbed. They advanced, slowly, one reaching for the man who tried to grasp a skeleton’s hand as the collar glowed—
Thatalocian’s fist smashed the skeleton’s face inwards, and his voice rose ever-louder.
“Take the city. TAKE THE CITY.”
 
——
 
They swept through the city like a torrent. Half the Kheltians didn’t know what to do. Some ran, but not far enough. Others hid, but like children. They were dragged into the streets until the [Slavers] ran out of chains and collars, so Thatalocian just had them bound with curtains.
The undead had stopped attacking. They had begun to until the collars started activating, and then they had gone silent.
They might have. Might have, but even here, the Lord of Numbers conducted this raid in his way.
“No one is to touch the captives. Gather them unharmed outside of the city. Take care with children and infants. Do not touch them at all.”
Twice, one of his people disobeyed. Twice, he crushed a head, and both Kheltians and Roshal’s children flinched. This was not the way of that old Terandrian [Lord] whose name Thatalocian had already banished, a debauched, barbaric rape and pillaging.
They took nothing but the souls. Chained them and then Thatalocian stood, feeling at dried blood running from his head. Then the bloodlust cooled from him, and he spoke to Lintl, who stood in the silence of uncertainty.
“Lord Thatalocian? What comes next?”
The [Numerologist] grunted.
“Now comes the King of Khelt, of course. I shall meet him. You will stand here and wait. Touch no one. Demon Vrikeyre, kill any who do.”
He turned to her, and the Demoness was staring at him like the others. She whispered as the skeletons outside the city kept rising.
“He’ll kill all of us. What do you think to negotiate with him? You don’t know Khelt, old Slave Lord.”
Skeletons had already been marching upon them, rising in ranks unending, but now—there were hundreds of thousands outside the city. Millions. More bone than soil; glowing eyes, chattering jaws and bones, a sea of them to bring down even Giants. Thatalocian grinned.
He had seen worse undead hordes.
“Your Majesty, save us!”
The Kheltians were screaming, but the skeletons did not advance. Why would they? Thatalocian’s [Slavers] would die in minutes, cut down, if the skeletons attacked.
But so would Khelt’s citizens. Thatalocian spoke as his eyes stared across the ground. A figure was rising from the sand, and golden flames fixed upon him, but the [Numerologist] was a master of his fear. And he did not fear Fetohep, regardless.
“He may kill us, in which case I do not know his number. I do not believe I am wrong. Witness it, Lintl, Vrikeyre. Calnous.”
The shaking woman in her shreds of armor, staring at him with the rest. Thatalocian stepped forwards, back straight, as he holstered the mace.
“Roshal was built of beings like I and these moments.”
He walked past them, only stopping once. Among the countless citizens of this city he had ransacked in less than an hour was a child, a boy, separated from his parents. He had no chains, just a piece of rope around his ankles, and Thatalocian halted.
“What is your name, child of Khelt?”
“A-Anleth.”
The boy answered with a petrified face. Thatalocian considered him, then bent and pulled the rope apart. Then he reached down and scooped the boy up in one arm. The child froze, and the citizens gazed at him in horror.
The burning eyes of the Revenant blazed, and he took a step forward, but Thatalocian just turned and began to walk out of the city’s gates with the boy staring around.
“Come, Anleth. Let us meet your king.”
 
——
 
A hundred thousand ancient bows pointed at Thatalocian, arrows gleaming. The eyes of a sea of undead fixed upon the [Numerologist], but he strode forwards slowly.
The boy, Anleth, was afraid, even though he had never feared skeletons, even as a baby. The being made of sands, robes swishing around him with those golden eyes…Anleth focused on him.
“Am I going to die?”
He wondered aloud, certain that at any moment, those arrows would loose and this dreadful man die. Or perhaps this was all a nightmare, a horrible dream, and he’d wake and tell his parents…but it felt too real.
Strangely, the man who called himself Slave Lord Thatalocian was the most reassuring. He glanced down at the boy he carried and shook his head.
“I do not put children in danger, Anleth. You will come to no harm. I swear it. As for your king…”
He met the eyes of the Revenant as they burned, and his voice carried across the dry ground.
“We are people with souls. He will not harm you or I.”
They were close enough, now, that Fetohep of Khelt heard them, and he stirred as Thatalocian put Anleth down. The boy sat down, knees too weak to stand, and Fetohep began to reach down for him, then halted. His voice, when he spoke, was terrible and grand, and Anleth hoped he would make it all better.
“You presume much, intruder who has despoiled Khelt’s lands with your presence. But for my citizens, I would subject each of Roshal’s minions to torture unto death. For this, I may scorch what remains of Lailight Scintillation to rubble. Why did you lay hands upon a child? He has no place here, Slave Lord Thatalocian.”
He knew who this was? Anleth stared at the bald man, who was so much less…grand than Fetohep. He wore plain armor, and he was balding, with scabs running all down one side of his face, a gouge in his bald pate, and white hair matter with blood.
But for all that, he was also…huge. A hunched man whose voice had a terrible weight to it. He addressed Fetohep with a simple nod of his head.
“To remind you of the children of Roshal who turned to dust, oh murderous king. Babes and children and those whose only crime it was to stand in the harbor.”
For just one moment, the golden flames in the sand-Revenant’s eyes flickered, then they blazed hot.
“So you have come seeking vengeance?”
“Naturally. But see—I have hurt none of your subjects. Despoiled nothing, save for the tread of my people’s boots. I come to you in restraint and honor, oh King of Ancient Khelt. I am as you name me, Thatalocian the Numerologist of Roshal. Will you greet me?”
His chin rose, and the undead ruler’s hand stole towards his side unconsciously. Fetohep’s mouth opened, then his head drew back. He regarded Thatalocian, and never—never.
In all his years of existence, never had one of Roshal’s get ever come before him and dared to look down upon him from higher moral ground. The rage that coursed through Fetohep became a stillness of ice.
“If you pretend towards decency, Slave Lord, then know me as Fetohep, Ruler of Eternal Khelt. For your trespass, I shall—”
“Let us not play games, King Fetohep. I hold the lives of your citizens in my hand. Few though they may be, you are said to be a king who treasures even one life like no other. My terms are hence: we shall depart upon your sworn word with none of your citizens harmed. This oath you shall swear in exchange for the terms I shall deliver.”
Thatalocian cut Fetohep short, and the Revenant stepped forwards.
“You dare? I would shred your city twice for this, Slave Lord.”
“You might.”
Thatalocian conceded, but his eyes were like numbers ticking down towards the end of the world. He whispered back as Anleth’s head swung between the two.
“You might, but Roshal has equal spells to hurl back at Khelt. As I have bid her, Slave Lord Andra holds them now in readiness. Shall two nations vanish today, King of Khelt?”
“You would risk your nation’s destruction, Lord Thatalocian?”
Fetohep didn’t move for a second. Thatalocian’s smile was bleak.
“We may scorch each other, Your Majesty, and I would weep. For I would live. Just as my people would live, the few, the broken, and rebuild as we always have. But what of Khelt? A [King] who loves his people would not see a single one hurt, as I have already witnessed. Would you damn those innocents? No. And your people…yours cannot even clean dust from their eyes.”
Fetohep felt like he was gazing into a stranger’s face. The bleakness of Thatalocian’s stare reminded him of—of Erin Solstice’s in some twisted way. Someone who had lost everything. He averted his gaze.
“You threaten me whilst surrounded. There is no strength in that negotiation, for all you guess that I would not wage war with spells of calamity.”
He intended to bring this conversation back to reality only to realize that Thatalocian had already been standing in it. For his next words made Fetohep freeze.
“I am surrounded. But by what? Khelt’s legions. The armies to damn any enemy in the world. So it seems, yet I have broken through them in a moment. You claim I am surrounded, and this is true. But I speak in truth: I do not believe I will die. My followers, yes. But if you should order your undead attack, I believe we would speak thusly when the day next dawns. Only I, more exhausted, and you, grieving. For I would claim ten lives for every one of my followers that fell. Then, Your Majesty of Khelt, I would flee. And the raids would truly begin.”
He knew. How, Fetohep did not know, and the boy who sat there could not understand what Thatalocian was alluding to, but the answer was in Thatalocian’s eyes.
That was why he had come. The instincts of a rational man who saw perfectly a weakness in his foes. Fetohep whispered as he drew closer.
“What do you wish, Slave Lord? It would appear you consider my position imperilled. Yet I have never seen value in feeding a starving jackal. Where once it threatens to bite, it shall again and again until put down.”
The [Numerologist] did not smile. He merely produced something and handed it to Fetohep, who unfolded it and stared at the scroll.
“This was not my design, but Andra’s. You may review it, but the terms are simple. This first incursion shall be the last. All of Roshal is bound by this agreement, even my fellow Slave Lords. Again, this is a mercy.”
“Mercy?”
The rising fury again banked as Thatalocian blinked those numbered eyes at Fetohep.
“Yes. Or did you think vengeance would not come for your deeds? I ask for coin to mend what will never return. I ask it, for your nation may serve my ends and against our common foes, though I would break your bones upon your throne for your deeds, Revenant King. Do not sully my honor with your pitiful ire. Or do you think Pazeral would come as gently as I? Yazdil? Look: not a drop of your citizens’ blood has been spilt.”
He pointed at the city, his [Slavers], and Fetohep’s eyes flicked to the contract. He stared downwards.
“This—is beyond ridiculous. You dare ask—”
At last, Thatalocian lost his temper, and a hand reached out and grasped Fetohep’s shoulder, or tried to. The King of Khelt reacted, and his hand intercepted Thatalocian’s. Until they were grasping forearms, almost like warriors engaged in combat.
His strength. Fetohep had been above Level 50 when he died, but the Slave Lord’s grip was terrifyingly strong. Now they drew closer, and Thatalocian seemed to grow before Fetohep’s eyes, and his voice deepened.
“Shall we make war, King of Khelt? I offer you a third boon. No one has seen this raid. Not a word of it will be spoken. You pay for silence, for the dead, against future harm. Make war, against your every wit and instinct, and prove yourself to be no better than any babbling undead, King of Khelt. And I shall shake your nation before the world’s eyes.”
Anleth didn’t know what was being said. He only saw his king, his infallible, perfect king, standing there, and the boy waited for Fetohep to smite his foes. He waited for good and justice to be restored to the world, this dreadful nightmare from Roshal to be banished.
He waited…and the King of Khelt’s gaze cast downwards to him. Only then did Thatalocian step back and glance down.
“Child. Go find your parents.”
“Yes…go in safety. Your name, boy?”
“Anleth, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep bent down and took the boy’s hand to help him up. He spoke once.
“Your bravery, Anleth, I note. I shall send for you when these horrors are gone. Go to your family. No one will harm you: this I swear.”
The boy broke into a relieved smile. He bowed, then turned and ran back to the city, shouting in relief. Fetohep watched him go and then spoke.
“For that, alone, I should thank you, Slave Lord Thatalocian.”
The [Numerologist] stood at ease now, just an old man, tired. He nodded once.
“A hero should not falter before children.”
 
——
 
They stood a little while longer there, speaking, and then they left.
Lintl had a gash down one arm, and it hurt. When Thatalocian told him to release the citizens, he obeyed, but he felt…whatever he felt was changed by the sight of the dead sinking beneath the ground and what came next.
The Kheltians felt it too. For all they were freed without a single one collared for Roshal. No [Slave] class assigned, no chains binding them. Lintl did not know what happened to the citizens he’d freed.
He didn’t really care. Nor did he even feel the journey back, though it took days—until Djinni were sent to literally fly them back and carry the rest with them. He didn’t sleep, he thought, for at least two days and nights.
All of them, each one who had come with Thatalocian, unwillingly, fearing the whip he had given a [Slave], his orders enforced with instant death—like Lintl, they had not loved this strange man reeking of older days.
But when he returned to Roshal and set foot in Lailight Scintillation, Thatalocian the Numerologist walked before a crowd who gazed upon his back and only then remembered to cheer. When he glanced over his shoulder, Lintl would have followed him back to Rhir in an instant.
The [Slave Lord] raised his hand, and in the high towers, Slave Lady Andra gazed down at him along with the other Masters of Roshal.
No one broadcast the image of his return on scrying orbs. Word of exactly what had happened was kept silent, though rumors spread, of course. How not?
The first wagons that Thatalocian brought through Roshal’s gates were laden with treasure the likes of which had not been seen since the King of Destruction’s conquests. It seemed unending as Djinni carried wealth falling from their arms onto the streets. Gold, gemstones, magical artifacts, spices, rare alchemical plants without end.
“The first of many. Let it be a reminder. All those who are curious as to how it was won, who seek more than merely holding chains, follow me.”
That was all Thatalocian said as he dipped one huge hand into a chest and let the coins fall clinking back into the chest. He turned, and Lintl followed. The Masters of Roshal gazed with wariness, envy, and yes, even appreciation at the strange son of Roshal. And for that, the riches of paradise, the Slavers of Roshal had nothing more to do with the failings of Khelt.
The rest…was the Prophet.
 
——
 
They should have all died there. Not in the first hour, in the first volley. The Arrows of Razzimir had fallen and left glowing craters in the sand. Scorched bones and glass.
Each detonation erased up to a hundred feet around it, hurling bodies from the sheer impact or blinding the others with the light. It did not matter who.
Men, women, children…
So that was the true nature of the King of Khelt. This was the Prophet’s folly. His punishment? He didn’t know.
Izreal was dead, obliterated in that first glowing arc of light. Then had come the next arrow and the next, killing the faithful with weapons.
Then those who knelt in their tents, praying. Those who had never picked up a blade. Flashes of light and the rumbling of sand and—
At first, they’d just missed him. Harvey Glastone had just been a single figure, impossible to pick up around the milling bodies, and the King of Khelt had simply hit every large group of people he could see. Nor had he stopped.
For hours, he had loosed those arrows with the endless rage of an undead ruler. Thousands of lives for just one man’s life.
He would have erased them all, scattered a handful to the desert, but for that thing he didn’t understand.
Faith.
So, there, the Prophet of God stood. Hands outstretched despite the burning of his limbs. Eyes wide, face blackened with soot, in front of the kneeling, weeping People of God. Even when he saw the glowing arrows sweeping down at him, he didn’t turn and flee.
He glanced over his shoulder and saw people behind him. Yirene clutching two children. Gladys holding a bloody sword, so many people he had promised protection to. And he spoke.
“Oh, God…”
The glowing Arrow of Razzimir fell, contoured light magic, hand-crafted to look like some ballistae bolt made by false Gods themselves. The spiral tip curved down towards him, and he held those shaking hands up and called on his faith. His desperation. His conviction in his heart that these people should not die.
The Arrow of Razzimir halted in the air. It hung there, the glowing magic and sheer mana becoming a charged odor that burned his nostrils. Slowly, slowly deforming until the magic began to run like cheap wax—then imploding in the air. A sunburst of light that exploded harmlessly.
One arrow. Then two. Then four.
The Prophet’s arms shook as he held four Arrows of Razzimir above his head, and they prayed. The spells that had been meant to fly the length of the continent deformed slowly, until they burst, but the King of Khelt kept hurling them down.
Yet the Prophet stood, even as he screamed from the exhaustion of keeping his arms raised and that crushing weight from killing them. He was not alone.
The camps of the People of God were aflame, or scorched rubble, but he saw another gathering of people. Over a thousand. They knelt in the cratered earth as Jilthread stood amongst them, clutching a cross to her chest.
A prismatic dome shielded her camp. Every time an arrow struck the dome, she faltered. Falling to her knees, blood running from her eyes and nose and mouth and ears, but they healed her, and she stood.
With will alone.
Marrieh, Lazimeh, each stood behind their own miracle as they prayed. The Prophet kept his arms raised, watching as the arrows targeted everyone who hadn’t reached a safe zone.
He felt like the [Light of Faith] shrank with each believer turned to nothingness. Destroyed by the hateful arrows falling from the sky.
They hadn’t stopped. Not for cries of mercy, not after the battle had been won. They scorched everyone. Fighters, those who had not picked up a weapon.
A monster’s actions. Then, and only then, did the bombardments stop. He didn’t know if the King of Khelt had run out of magic, or simply grown tired. Only then did the Prophet fall to his knees. They were not all dead, then.
Not all. But the People of God cried out to him, as they saw the skies clear for a moment.
“We must flee, Your Holiness. Away, out of range!”
Marrieh was urging him up as he clasped his hands together. It was Adoive, the Kheltian man, who whispered, face covered in soot and ash.
“There’s nowhere in Chandrar to run. He can strike any part of Chandrar with those arrows. Day and night.”
The arrows would come again, the Prophet was sure. He prayed for something. Salvation, a miracle.
Was this not the way, oh Lord? Guide me. Please…
Marrieh was urging him up and snapping at Adoive to stand. She believed. And the Prophet had seen the light. He had begun writing the next holy text. Salvation for all. This was a holy purpose.
So then…his eyes opened slowly, and he stared at Adoive, who he had thought for a second was the whispering of the Devil himself, a delusion sent to lead him astray.
Or—the Prophet rose. Rose and turned to his followers, who were upon their knees, gazing at him. Their faith shaken, but he rasped.
“I know where we must go. Follow me. Hurry.”
He began to walk through the sands, robes leaving a trail. They stirred and rose, uncertain, and Marrieh called out.
“Prophet! That’s the wrong way! You’re going—”
He turned to gaze at her, then shook his head, and his revelation came to him, and he spoke.
“Those arrows will strike us anywhere in the world. But not his cities. We will bring salvation to every street. His magic may assail us, but his army will break before our faith. Forwards!”
He began to run, then, ungainly, but they followed, and it was so obvious. There was no survival in any other direction. God had shown him the only path, as ever. So the Prophet ran, and when his eyes rose to the sky, he prayed.
“God…please show me a sign. A sign that good can triumph in this world. Please.”
When he collapsed on the ground, in view of the first Kheltian city, the divine messenger who might well be the Holy Spirit whispered in his ear, not quite happy about that idea. But nevertheless, it spoke:
 
[Class Change: Prophet of the Holy People → Witness of Divinity!]
[Witness of Divinity Level 40!]
[Faith (Christianity) – The Church of God Created!]
[Prophet of God rank Created!]
[Bishop of Christ rank Created!]
[Deacon of the Trinity rank Created!]
[Priest…]
[Miracle – Biblical Earthquake Created!]
[Skill (Faith) – Their Blades Slew the Unholy Obtained!]
[Miracle – Sacrament: Summon the Divine (Angel) Created!]
 
——
 
The King of Khelt was tired. He knelt on the ground of the city he had saved with coin and wealth and knew it was the right action.
His citizens’ relief was proof of that. Not a single one had Roshal touched.
The rest…
He felt it crumbling, now. The weight of eighteen ruler’s lives, so many who had come before him, all this effort, and it was his grip which slackened. As if trying to hold onto…sand.
It blew from his hands as they gathered around him, weeping, traumatized. Someone was trying to speak to him. Frieke and Pewerthe, who had ridden towards him in a panic.
“Your Majesty, the Prophet—”
“Were they from Roshal? Why weren’t they killed?”
“Your Majesty! The people are still protesting about the insects, and word of this—”
“They’re demanding New Jecrass be exiled—”
He said nothing. What was there to say? No more lies, even to himself. He met Pewerthe’s gaze, and the voices rose.
“Your Majesty!”
“Your Majesty, please!”
“Save us from—”
“Your Majesty!”
“Your Majesty—!”
“…Your Majesty?”

10.57 F (2026-02-21)

They appeared in a procession, men and women wearing white robes, hoisting packs, shouting praises, even singing, and at first, it seemed to the Kheltians as though it were a festival. That was what surprised the Prophet each time.
The third city was no more prepared than the first. People actually left the open, unwalled city with its fountains that each ran with a different colored liquid, and they pointed or laughed, shouting.
“What festival is this? No one told us! Are you foreigners here at His Majesty’s invitation?”
It was so…strange. The People of God flowed forwards, and they sang, but there was a bitter edge to their hymnals. And, the Kheltians realized, ash and dust coating their robes, even dried blood.
So they said:
“Are you hurt? Was there an accident on the roads?”
That made the man standing in the center of the column of faithful turn and look at a man, an older one in his sixties with fair pale hair. Human. His face was one of concern. He could have been from Earth, even if his dress was more fantasy-themed than Earth’s, a sash of glittering enchanted red silk hanging from a pale white tunic and with blue inlay near the leggings.
This man, among all the Kheltians, seemed to realize the People of God were not usual visitors. He frowned, stepping back, and someone shouted from the Prophet’s ranks.
“We are the People of God, followers of the Prophet and the true way! You, Kheltians, who worship your depraved, murderous king—repent! Repent and beg forgiveness, and even you shall be saved!”
The Kheltians stopped approaching, confused. A stocky young Stitch-man who’d run up recoiled.
“Who are you, and how dare you say such things about His Majesty? You’re filthy—wash before you enter our city! This is Raliet, the Spring City! You look like beggars. Is this some kind of game?”
He—made it easier. But in truth, even if they had welcomed the People of God with open arms, it would not have mattered. The young Stitch-man, his carefully-sewn cotton features ablaze with indignation, met Jilthread’s face.
And her eyes were red with tears. The ash of the destruction of her fellow pilgrims still clung to the side of her face. She did not raise the spear she carried, though the young man’s eyes locked on it in astonishment.
“We are the People of God. This city is ours. We claim it in the name of God. We will cast your king down and make him pay for his crimes.”
“What is she talking about? Estoli, come away. They don’t seem to be in the mood for chatter.”
One of the young Stitch-man’s friends called out, and there it was again. She didn’t say ‘unsafe’ or ‘dangerous’. Because the word just didn’t occur to her. And Estoli stared at Jilthread.
“What crimes? People of God? I’ve never heard of you. If you speak about His Majesty like that one more time, I will have an official arrest you.”
He was not afraid of the many People of God. Nor did he know…Harvey spoke, a rasping voice.
“We are at war with Khelt. Have you not heard of the other two cities emptied by our people?”
Estoli recoiled, and the Kheltians of Raliet gasped in astonishment. Estoli’s eyes widened.
“Other cities? War? Impossible. If we were at war, the skeletons would kill—how are you here?”
No one had told them? The other citizens who had fled their cities hadn’t said…? Harvey looked to Marrieh, and she whispered.
“It could be a trick.”
He didn’t think it was. Jilthread strode for the city’s gates, and someone ran past her.
“This is Raliet! The city of springs! Prophet, see—each one runs with a different liquid! Purified Water, wine, even a curative tonic—I thought it so grand until I learned that God could do the same with but the tap of a staff!”
Adoive. He was gleeful as he gazed at the other Kheltians. The only smiling person among the People of God. His face was twisted up with maliciousness, and Harvey didn’t look at him.
“Silence, Adoive. This is a holy war. You—all of you. Take what you can carry and flee. Tell your King of Khelt that if he scorches us, we will sweep into the next city by blood and fire.”
Jilthread addressed the growing crowd, and they just stared at her. Like sheep.
The Prophet waited, because he knew someone would object, and it was Estoli who put out an arm as Jilthread began to advance with a blank-faced core of People of God. Not the warriors. They knew they were in no danger.
“I don’t like how you’re talking, stranger. Begone. No one is taking anything from us. If you don’t leave, I’ll call for skeletons to deal with you. I saw it happen to a foreigner once. The skeleton broke both his arms.”
The threat made Adoive cackle, and Jilthread just gazed at the arm. Then she reached up. Estoli was carrying a solid gold necklace with golden fangs. It was probably to mimic the Gnolls or some such, and it was clearly heavy.
Just the kind of thing a young man might think was worth wearing. Real gold too, Harvey bet. She yanked it from his neck, and the Kheltians gasped.
“This wealth is a sin. You live in debauchery. If you would know how to live truly and righteously, stay.”
She told them, and Estoli recoiled, then grew truly angry. He reached for the necklace.
“That is mine. I commissioned it so I could visit the Gnolls! Give it back!”
He reached for it, and she pushed him back. His eyes widened, and he went to shove her. When he did, she knocked down his arm.
Back home, Harvey knew plenty of hotheads whose next move would be to throw a punch. Well, Jilthread was a woman—but Estoli didn’t. He backed up, rubbing at his arm.
“You hit me. You hit—skeletons! Skeletons, defend me!”
He began shouting, and other people took up the call. Jilthread waited, and then it happened. The ground shifted.
A hand dug itself out of the soil, and a skeleton arose. Fast. It practically popped out of the ground. It swivelled its head left and right as green flames entered its eyes as if confused, and Estoli howled.
“She hit me! She’s a foreigner and insulting His Majesty! Arrest her!”
The skeleton turned its head, and Jilthread’s spear punched through its eye sockets. She ripped through the skull as if it were paper mache, and the tip of her spear was glowing white.
Holy weapons against the undead. The Kheltians stared as the skeleton collapsed.
“Y-you killed a skeleton. Help. Arise—”
More skeletons began to dig out of the ground. Jilthread’s boot stomped through one, and then she was turning.
“I say again, this city is ours. Blame your king for the massacre he committed against us.”
She strode forwards, and when Estoli stood in her way, mouth open, she shoved him to the ground. He landed hard, on his elbows, and cried out from pain.
Then—his friends and the other citizens of the city saw Jilthread advancing, swinging her spear like a club, not using the pointed end, and they began to scream.
“Help! Help, she’s attacking—”
“Run!”
The panic set in. But even then, it was curious. The People of God advanced as Kheltians fled, screaming in pure terror, doing more damage to themselves in flight than the People of God did. They tripped and fell and scraped themselves, but the ones further in the city…glanced up and asked what was going on.
“It’s like they can’t hear. Or they’re deaf.”
Marrieh remarked, seeing the alarm spreading in stages. The ignorance of the other cities…the Prophet spoke harshly.
“They’ll all know soon enough. Clear this city. Let the wounded and thirsty drink. I need to rest. I’ll rest…”
He was mortally tired from the acts of faith that had saved them, even days later. Sick at heart—he listened to the People of God advancing into the city and wondered if they could sweep all of Khelt this way.
It was so easy. A child could best grown men and women. Of course—there were always exceptions.
“Halt! In His Majesty’s name!”
A single official barred the path of the People of God. Harvey glanced up as he searched for an inviting house to sleep in, and he saw the same old man. He’d found an official, and the Kheltian man wielded a curious, padded baton.
Is that their notion of a police officer? He was calling for the undead, but when the skeletons arose, the People of God dispatched them in moments.
A stone from a sling, a hurled axe—a prayer from Jilthread and the final skeleton burst into flames. The official paled, but he lifted the padded club two-handed.
“You will leave this city now!”
One of the [Warrior Priests] came at him, to grab the silly weapon and toss it away, but to everyone’s surprise, the official struck out, tapping the priest in the chest with the weapon with actual speed. And the [Warrior Priest] keeled over instantly.
“What was that—?”
“Paralysis. Enchanted.”
Marrieh commented, and Harvey’s alarm faded. The official was backing up, shouting at the Kheltians to flee and summon more skeletons, inform His Majesty. He swung in wide arcs as Jilthread lifted her spear.
“Don’t make me hurt you, man of Khelt.”
“I don’t know how you came past the border, but you will not advance one step further. If I must, I will hurt you.”
The official touched something on the handle of the padded club, and it glowed an ominous red. Fire? Harvey turned back again, but Jilthread was calm. She set the spear low, and the official hesitated.
“Don’t make me—”
The twang made his face twist up, and the old man next to him recoiled. The official fell to one knee, staring at the crossbow bolt that had splintered through a kneecap and the blood spattering the ground. Then he screamed.
“My—aaah. Aaaaaaaah—-”
He choked, dropping his padded weapon, which smoldered on the tiles as he clutched at his leg. His eyes rolled up, and he tried to express the agony which he might have never felt in his life, but he couldn’t. He convulsed until he realized that made the pain worse, and someone laughed.
Jilthread spun, and Adoive lifted the crossbow he had fired.
“Take that!”
“Adoive! The Prophet has said not to harm any who do not resist!”
“And? He was resisting. I hate the officials. Look at him—he’s pathetic. He can’t take a single injury.”
Adoive dashed forwards and snatched up the club. He waved it, and the rest of the Kheltians fled in panic. Jilthread tossed down her spear and strode over.
“[Heal Wounds]!”
The wound closed as she snapped the crossbow bolt and bent to yank the bloody quarrel out the other side of the knee. The official convulsed, but the skin closed—and yet Jilthread grimaced.
“It’s not healing properly. Marrieh! I need your help. You might have crippled him, Adoive.”
She turned on him, and Adoive slunk back, whining.
“He was threatening you! These clubs can burn, Jilthread. Haven’t they done enough to us? The King of Khelt burned your entire camp—”
“Adoive, enough.”
Marrieh shoved him aside and bent to kneel over the official. He stared up at her, panting, pale-faced, and she spoke.
“I’ll try to heal you, and if you cannot be moved, you will not be harmed.”
“Wh—why have you come to our kingdom? What have we done to you?”
Her face was grim as she replied.
“Your King of Paradise burned our people into ash.”
The official stared at her.
“Unprovoked?”
To that, she had no answer. Harvey turned away. He went walking for a house; he knew he should stay with her and his bodyguards, but there was no danger here from the Kheltians. And he was restless.
Fleeing Kheltians, packing things, staring at the People of God. Some of them—asking questions. Flinching back when the People of God snapped at them. The city would take hours to empty. If they were actual raiders, Harvey doubted many would have escaped. But there was little violence.
Oh, some of the faithful shoved Kheltians aside when they went to bar their homes or took possessions off them. The Kheltians were too afraid to fight back, and even the most hotheaded ran after being struck once.
But some…yes, some had nerve. The old man was back—barring the way into a house.
“You cannot enter. There is a newborn child inside. Leave.”
His eyes flashed, and some of the faithful hesitated. One went to shove him aside.
“We will harm no one, but you will leave. We are the People of God.”
“So are you [Bandits] or despoilers?”
“We are a virtuous people!”
The [Cleric] snapped back, angry, and the man held his arms out as voices and a crying baby echoed from within.
“Then if you are, we have nothing to fear. Give them half an hour’s time, at least.”
The faithful milled about, but none were quite willing to shove him aside. Harvey watched as they backed up, and when he was certain they would not try to enter, the man kept moving. It seemed he did not believe the People of God were entirely peaceful, and perhaps doubting it himself, Harvey followed.
An odd game of cat and mouse ensued as the two men strode through the city of Raliet, searching through the chaos as the city rapidly emptied of people. The old man realized Harvey was following him and glanced back his way, but neither said a word.
One’s eyes were filled with anger, confusion, fear, and distrust. The other’s with cold emptiness.
So many dead. I will have vengeance, I swear it in God’s name. And perhaps Harvey wondered if God had…why did he allow such misery? Why was there misery in any world?
The work of the anti-Christ, of demons and the Devil, was surely strong. And Fetohep of Khelt was an embodiment of that. But why…
Were his cities so clean? Why were his people like newborn babes? Fat, complacent, arrogant, and rich, but so nonviolent. Were they tricked?
—No. There was one stain of filth in Khelt. Both the old man and Prophet found the man in a far street.
“Hand over all your possessions, now. You do not deserve them! No one in hypocritical, fat Khelt does.”
Adoive was holding the club he’d taken aloft, and he’d encountered a group of six Kheltians. Two were lying on the ground, paralyzed. Whether or not they’d fought, Harvey didn’t know, but as he came to a halt, he saw the four terrified young people stripping their bracelets and jewelry off.
Adoive snatched at them.
“What is this? Real jade? Do you know how much that’s worth?”
“Let us go. We’re leaving. We only wanted to grab our things—”
One of the Kheltians spoke, and Adoive swung the club, and she flinched.
“Not so fast. You’re…you’re all sinful. Hand over the rest.”
“What rest?”
She felt at her earrings, and he pointed.
“Your clothing too.”
“Are you mad?”
The former-Kheltian was licking his lips, and Harvey was advancing down the street, faster now. It occurred to him to wonder—Adoive had been expelled from Khelt for some transgression. What was it?
“Take it off or I’ll hit you!”
They were hesitating, shaking, when the old man shouted.
“Enough!”
Adoive swung around, jumped, and then raised the club. When he saw Harvey behind the old man, he froze.
“Prophet! I—I was just dealing with this group that attacked—”
“Adoive. You are committing a sin before the Lord. Drop your weapon.”
Harvey’s voice was cold. He was tired, and his anger at Khelt burned hottest for Adoive, who had led him here. The man hesitated.
“Prophet, I—”
He might have run as the old man stared at the Prophet, but a voice echoed from behind Harvey.
“There’s the Prophet!”
More of the faithful had come to find him. Harvey turned as some of the new People of God, lower-level, rushed forwards. A pair of attractive young women were pointing and calling out.
“And there’s Adoive! I told you he was stealing women’s underthings and the like!”
The man froze up. Harvey hissed at him as he advanced.
“You lech! You pervert! How dare you!”
“This is my home! I deserve—”
Adoive swung the club at Harvey, not hard, but the Prophet stopped, and the Faithful cried out. They rushed forwards, surrounding Harvey, as Marrieh appeared around the street corner. The old Kheltian man was standing in front of the young people, and Harvey addressed him.
“Take your people and go, sir.”
“Is this what your people do when no one watches them?”
The old man asked, and the Prophet turned his wrathful eyes on Adoive, who backed away as numerous hands reached for the club, voices telling him to drop it.
“God watches us all. And he judges everyone. Just as he judges your king, who has wronged us.”
“This is my home. I have lived here for sixty years without harming a person. Now, your people sweep into this city, and it is you who commit every harm. Say I believe that His Majesty has wronged you. We remain innocent. And if that man acts so without anyone to see him, others surely do.”
“Not among my people.”
Harvey found himself arguing with the old man as the younger Kheltians fled. He saw the faithful gazing at him, and the old Kheltian stared at Harvey.
“Why are you taking our homes if not to hurt us?”
“You have plenty of homes inside Khelt! We come for the King of Khelt! We will take the buildings and finery and build a structure to our God! This is the least of what we could do, so be grateful and go!”
Harvey shouted at the old man, and he flinched. The Prophet caught himself and whispered.
“Ours is a merciful, all-knowing God. You do not know what that means or who he is. But he sees all, knows all. We will answer to him. This man, Adoive, will answer to me on Earth. In Heaven, God.”
He spun to Adoive as Marrieh strode forwards, and a voice spoke.
“This is Chandrar, Prophet. And this is Khelt, a paradise you attacked. If your God told you to do this, then he is a monstrous one. The Quarass of Germina judges you both.”
Harvey was swinging back to the old Kheltian man instinctively, but he hadn’t said a word. It was one of the younger faithful, a dark-skinned young woman from Germina wearing slightly-grimy white robes, who looked up at him. He stared at her.
“The…what?”
She drew a knife. He was still staring at her, wondering why she was bringing up the Quarass, when she drove it through his ribs. And then slashed across his throat.
“Harvey!”
Marrieh screamed as he stumbled, and the faithful shrieked and sprang away as the [Assassin] leapt back. She turned to run, and a flash of light struck her. One of the [Battle Clerics] threw a javelin of light, and she cried out, tumbling.
“Assassins! They’ve killed the Prophet!”
Wails. The Kheltians were running, and Harvey was choking. His throat was burning. Bleeding. Something was eating at his insides.
Poison. Marrieh slammed into him.
“[Greater Heal Wounds]! Get Yirene! Get healers—”
His wounds closed, but the poison was in him, burning, and his skin was mottling as he gasped, and his windpipe closed and—and—
She was laying hands on him as the People of God prayed. Trying to purge the poison from the greatest expert in Chandrar. The Prophet was convulsing on the ground, but that was, in truth, a bad sign for the Quarass’ plans.
He should have already been dead. It seemed the People of God could cure every poison short of Dragonblight venoms. Very vexing, and now their guards would be up.
A woman in white robes watched the commotion around the Prophet, hands over her mouth, as she prepared a report. She stepped back into the alleyway, pretending to be sick, and then sighted a man running.
Adoive. He was making his escape, clutching the club that would make him a dangerous man in Khelt. The second [Assassin] of Ger sighed. This was not part of her mission, but the Quarass liked Khelt. And the man was a lech who had harassed the new faithful as well. So she flicked a hand in a swift motion as she bent to vomit.
The fleeing former-Kheltian stumbled in the distance. He clutched at his back, then began to writhe on the ground. Screaming and voiding his bowels as his insides began to run. He called out for help, then prayed. But everyone was running towards the Prophet. Eventually, he lay there, deflating slowly until he was but skin and bones and a stinking puddle that had been a man too wretched for paradise.
Hmm. Perhaps poison would work after all. The [Assassin] finished vomiting, then went back to pray. Her instructions were also to gain this faith class and to survive her mission. Which would be tricky. She just wondered if killing this Prophet would save Khelt.
If three cities could fall so fast…the Quarass in her wisdom was right. The skeletons were all but useless. She went to kneel beside the Prophet as he was carried to safety. And then she watched the People of God continue their advance, righteous anger burning in their every step.
 
——
 
After a week of fighting, it was clear the People of God would not stop. They advanced into Kheltian settlements and cities, proselytizing, shouting the wrath of their god, ransacking shops, taking valuables from the citizenry—but not killing.
‘Thou shalt not kill’ was one of their big tenets, actually. Though that did not seem to necessarily apply to those who took up arms against them first or the undead.
But they were angry, had faith-based Skills, and there were too many of them. Even after the Arrows of Razzimir, there were just too many for the mortal servants of Khelt to uproot.
The undead had virtually no impact on the People of God. Even aside from the [Light of Faith], each one could but strike a skeleton and turn it into dust.
Power from their Prophet. They stormed cities, shouting at the people that their [King] was a false one, that the end of Khelt had come, and it seemed it.
If anything, the miracle was that the Prophet’s advance was not the talk of Khelt. Somehow, by way of repressing the news from travelling or something—else—other cities were not fully aware of the issue. They knew there were foreigners, but not the scope of the issue.
Not yet. Just as Roshal’s raid on the border city of Millincrete was also kept quiet. But did it matter?
They were protesting again today. Just like yesterday, and it felt like half the city was in the streets. The insects, you see.
“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!”
“Hear us, Your Majesty! Why are you ignoring your people?”
“Expel the outsiders! Our dead belong to us!”
“Your Majesty—”
Pewerthe shut the curtains, but not before the wind blew a reminder of one of Khelt’s woes into the throne room.
A desert moth had found itself in the rich red fabric of Khelt’s curtains. It rubbed its legs together, preparing to lay a brood who would feast on this bounty. The moth took an experimental nibble of the fabric and promptly dented its mandibles; the fabric was enchanted. Bug-proofed.
Pewerthe squashed it anyways. She wiped her fingers on the fabric and reflected that a servant would have to clean the carcass of the bug off. It was no longer ‘fun’ to be a day-servant. They had to actually clean up and take care of tasks, unlike just waiting on Fetohep’s rare orders.
Three people hadn’t even shown up for duty today. Another sign. Signs and signs…as if it weren’t written upon the skies. Even the other nations were figuring it out.
Khelt was weak. Khelt was failing. Khelt could not stop one little [Prophet]. If it could not stop him…Thatalocian was just the first. The richest nation in Chandrar had just shown its belly, and the only thing between them and their many enemies was the illusion they hadn’t lost all their teeth.
All this was so, and yet when she closed the curtains fully and turned, he sat upon his throne, unmoving. She faced him.
“Your M—Fetohep. I have to go make pots in an hour or so. What is happening with the Prophet?”
Her words made the figure’s head rise, and he almost snapped at her. Pots? But she was just as angry at him, and she had thrown a pot at him yesterday, so he replied, strain evident in his voice.
“Death Commander Lanodest has taken all available forces to assist Kheltians fleeing the north. Water, provisions. Their flight has taken a toll but none have died yet. Xe-salas has been evacuated. Emrest’s Sanctuary is in the process…residents are refusing to leave in good order. The advance of this Prophet has—slowed. He appears to be occupying three cities so far. The Sweeper’s Guild of Nerrhavia’s Fallen has declined the bid to send their highest-levelled members to Khelt after deliberation. They refuse to—”
“Forget about the bugs, Fetohep! The Prophet must be stopped!”
He continued speaking doggedly.
“—Fellbow has not been able to get close. All other [Mercenary] companies have declined, including Captain Galbram. I do not know why—perhaps it was the Captain I had hired. Dispensation for her wounded and dead have been paid.”
“And she’s run.”
Pewerthe couldn’t really blame the woman; the People of God had outnumbered and outmatched her forces, and Fetohep had vastly undersold the problem, but Pewerthe was still angry. This was her nation, and their hired help had…
“Our army? Dovive?”
“The remaining soldiers still engage the Prophet’s, but injuries have forced many of Khelt’s soldiers to retreat. A growing number refuse to engage the enemy due to the—torment of battle.”
He meant being injured. They were cared for, and every effort was taken to preserve their lives, but the sheer trauma of pain was winnowing the recruited soldiers. Pewerthe took a huge breath.
“What about Germina?”
“—She has informed me that six attempts have been made on the Prophet’s life. Four were successful in reaching him. Two cases of poison, one arrow, one via dagger. He was healed within moments of each injury. No—the poison did not even take effect. Evacuation of Olepit is almost completed. Ah—a child has lost their doll.”
His golden flames flickered, and she knew, somewhere, a skeleton was going back to locate—
“Fetohep!”
She slammed her hands on the armrests of his throne, and he sat up, looking at her in utter confusion. He was spread out across his kingdom, coordinating skeletons. But that was not what worried her.
His chest was rising and falling. Not with great rapidity, but she stared at him.
“Fetohep, you’re breathing.”
She could hear a faint sucking sound, that of air entering and exiting—but the lungs in the Revenant’s corpse were long-rotted. Yet he was…
He stopped after a second, and she saw his eye-flames dancing, the blazes flickering back and forth. His voice was authoritative after a moment.
“A habit, Pewerthe. I intend to press Dovive for reinforcements presently. I shall double my offer to Galbram. Perhaps if I offered Jaganismet—hostilities against New Jecrass have reached a zenith. I fear for the Gnollish and Centaur peoples. Violence against them is unacceptable. I must address my subjects.”
It won’t do you any good. They were angry. So angry they had begun to shout back at him. Not throw things, not yet, but—
“It’s just damn bugs, Fetohep. Look at me. When have you taken a break?”
“I do not need rest, Pewerthe. I have established control of the situation. Skeletons report that those held by the Prophet are not being harmed, though they are under duress. Adventurer Frieke, liberate that group if you are able—”
He was speaking to Frieke, who was countless miles away. He had not slept while Pewerthe had, and he was doing a hundred things at once while she stood there.
But he was also—she saw his chest rise and begin to fall before he caught himself, again, and she felt a flutter in her chest.
He was panicking.
She had not believed it, but it was the conclusion she had come to. Fetohep was not making rational decisions. He was stretched thin, and she had realized that the undead truly had been vital. Having to manually control them was beyond any one ruler. Without them to do every task and with enemy forces in his lands and his people waking up to Khelt’s issues.
As he realized that Khelt’s situation could not be reversed nor ignored, and that the other nations would find out—any soul in this world was allowed to experience fear, weren’t they?
Panic for a ruler watching his paradise falling to pieces in his lifetime was understandable. Even if she had once believed he was infallible…it was alright.
That was not Pewerthe’s worry. Her worry was this, and it bore from the conversation she had had with Fetohep a while ago.
He had told her that the undead did not change their state of being. They had no glands, no chemicals, no brains, even. They experienced the world on an intellectual level in many ways, even if they could feel emotions.
Which then meant that because there was no physical part of emotions, they could persist in having feelings longer than mortals.
No matter how overwhelming the rage, adrenaline would leave your body in time. Tears could only flow as long as the body had water. Sleep reset emotions, but she had seen Fetohep raging for hours against the Prophet. His anger did not relent.
If this was so, then…let’s assume if you had an undead capable of having a panic attack—
What happened if it just didn’t end? Pewerthe really didn’t like that idea. Nor did she personally know what a panic attack felt like, but Frieke was apparently an expert, and she had claimed Fetohep was showing a lot of the symptoms.
“Your Majesty—”
He was staring at the curtains, and his gaze focused on the scroll that flashed in her hands.
“Pewerthe? I have a task for you of utmost importance. Yes—someone must—servants! Send another [Message] to Vizir Hecrelunn and…Serept’s half-Giants. I forget which—”
Breathing again. She lowered the Scroll of Complete Calm and tucked the spent parchment into her bag of holding.
It doesn’t work on him. She tilted her head.
“Whatever I can do, Fetohep—where am I needed?”
“New Jecrass.”
She blinked. Of all the places—Fetohep fiddled with something. A piece of parchment marked with Khelt’s royal emblem, a hand reaching out of the earth. Gold and black stationary.
He was writing a letter. To whom? He finished writing and handed it to a day-servant.
“Address it to one of the trusted Couriers in Invrisil at all speed. Have it teleported, and ensure the Mage’s Guild does not pry.”
He saw Pewerthe staring at the letter. She loved secrets, and she wanted to know who he was sending that to. Izril? Fetohep coughed theatrically into one hand, demanding her attention.
“A small thought to call for experts to this problem, Pewerthe. It may result in little. Let us focus on the task at hand. Yes, New Jecrass. I have pulled back the army to combat the People of God, leaving New Jecrass all but undefended. Given the hostility of Khelt, and the dangers of the Prophet, you must be my eyes and ears there. I have sent for Sand at Sea. Captain Cikroleth will escort you.”
“To New Jecrass? Now? Fetohep, we need to deal with the Prophet, not—”
“I am your king, Pewerthe. Address me as ‘Your Majesty’. I do not have time to argue!”
He thundered at her in a display of anger so rare she took a step back. She hesitated when she realized she should have held her ground—he was already focusing on something else. His head turned, guilty, as he touched a scrying orb.
“Please, Pewerthe. I must know they are well. If [Bandits] are striking them…report back as swiftly as you can. Ah, Archmage Eldavin. I wish to inquire about cleaning spells or these familiars…”
Whether he intended to do it or not, she couldn’t butt into a conversation between him and someone like Archmage Eldavin. Pewerthe stood there, then stormed out of the throne room when a servant touched her sleeve to tell her that Sand at Sea was already across the borders.
This was Khelt as it crumbled. She did not leave because she thought Fetohep was right. Rather…Pewerthe had to talk to the only people who might save it.
 
——
 
Revenants. Citizens of Khelt from prior eons, older than Djinni. In hindsight, Pewerthe hadn’t even spoken much to Captain Cikroleth let alone his crew. She regretted that now, but part of the lack of communication was just…wariness.
No one quite knew how these ancient guardians might stand. Hecrelunn was certainly unpredictable and dangerous. What might the [Captain] of ancient years, who had served under King Dolenm, say if he saw all that was going on?
Might he think Khelt was better served by a new ruler? Perhaps Cikroleth might decide he could be that better ruler?
When the gangplank lowered and the flying ship skimming across the sands parked in the middle of the street outside her potter’s workshop, even regular citizens stopped to stare. But Pewerthe just strode up the gangplank.
“Captain Cikroleth, thank you for taking me aboard. His Majesty—”
“Aye. We sail back to New Jecrass, that ye might inspect it, at full speed. Take her about and get us moving, you undead sea rats!”
The crew leapt to action, and Pewerthe realized they were not all Humans. Some had reptilian skulls, one was definitely a Gnoll, and—she eyed the rotting face and bones more like a mummy on one—
“That’s Shishkel. Stitch-folk. Different rot. Hard to preserve. They’d speak, but they were silent in life and havin’ a voice creeps everyone out in death.”
As if he’d read her mind, Cikroleth pointed, and Pewerthe jumped as Sand at Sea executed a three point turn in the middle of the street. Their ship nearly scraped a building, but the Drake at the wheel was grinning as the landscape rotated around them.
The floorboards were ancient, seeming dusty even if they were clean, and the sand that blew under the ship made Kheltians scatter as it floated over the ground. Ancient weapon batteries, ballistae and enchanted cannons, were notched from battle, and the crew leapt into the rigging or did complicated things with ropes.
A fairytale, even for Khelt. Pewerthe stood on the main deck as Shishkel turned, glowing eyes in a rotted face, and gave her a laconic salute.
“I see. Honored Shishkel, thank you for your undying service. Is he—she—well? Does it tax your crew, Captain Cikroleth?”
He grinned; his face was all bones, and his teeth had silver and gold replacing ivory. He looked like a [Captain], with the iconic hat, an open coat, and crossbow and cutlass at his side.
“Shishkel? Oi, Shishkel, are you feeling male, female, or naught at all today?”
He got a lewd gesture as the undead Stitch-woman held her fingers up to what remained of her mouth, a sagging hole in her face.
“Her, then. As for how it feels—no drink nor pleasures of flesh, just service unto the day we fall in battle or our bones rot. I smell no air, take no joy from the wind in my face…”
Pewerthe saw the Captain pause, then sweep his eyes over the city as they passed the gates. Now the sails caught, and there was a roaring of wind in her face. She shielded her eyes until a barrier spell activated, and then the wind blew, but less harshly, and they flew. And the undead man grinned at her.
“—But my eyes still see this world, and it’s changed enough to set my heart aflutter. I won’t forget that easily. In ten years, twenty, or a hundred if we live that long, aye, we might grow tired. I doubt we’ll live that long. Dolenm told us, his crew that offered to serve, that we’d be taken out scarcely. Not to preserve our frail hearts and minds, mind, but because he knew we’d throw ourselves into death first! Don’t you fear we’re breaking up, Heir of Khelt.”
With a few words, he reassured her more than she could have hoped. The Captain eyed Pewerthe, then made a weird hissing sound.
“Hfweh. Phwee. Kraken’s tits damn it all! Get her a chair!”
She realized he’d been trying to whistle, but lacking lips, he’d tried to make the sound with his ‘voice’. She hid a smile, but it was no use; the crew started roaring with laughter.
Skeletons slapped their ribs, and someone lost a jaw as bones clattered, a chorus of the damned, but Cikroleth just strode across the ship, yanking a chair out from under a snoozing Gnoll. Or one pretending to sleep.
“Captain, I was daydreaming.”
“Nap when you’re alive again, Irg. Say something to the nervous Heir. She might be the last you meet.”
That made Pewerthe’s smile go out, but the Gnoll just stood and lifted a skeletal paw.
“Hallo, Heir of Khelt. I’m Irg, who once cutlassed a [Pirate Lady] in bed, then on the decks of this very ship where I sit. Love of my life—misunderstandings. But for that, I’d have lived a man’s life with family and children and whatnot. I reckon that’s a good introduction if any should be remembered. What d’you do?”
“I’m Potter Pewerthe, Honored Irg. I make…pots. And I lie.”
He tilted his head.
“Standard’s slipping for Heirs of Khelt.”
Captain Cikroleth cuffed the back of his head, but Pewerthe nodded.
“I’m possibly the best…of current Khelt, Honored Irg. Who was the heir in your time? Oh, it’d be—”
He shrugged.
“Some squirt of a girl named Emrist. Dolenm wasn’t the brightest of sorts. Good [Pirate Lord], but he didn’t fancy being the [King of Pirates], and he realized Khelt was getting lawless and untended. So we raided every academy and school across the continents. Damn well stole at least ten thousand boys, girls, even old codgers. Searching for the best minds, you see.”
“As…slaves? Involuntary citizens?”
She grew worried, but another sailor ambled over.
“Nah, volunteers. I’m a Crocodile Beastkin, though you can’t tell because of the lack of skin. Radame—they call me Rad Rema, the [Cook]. You want anything to eat? We’ve got—no, wait, nevermind. It’s all damn dust.”
She grinned at Pewerthe who could absolutely tell from the bone structure. She jerked her thumb at Irg.
“Irg sleeps through everything. All the people we brought volunteered to join Khelt. Who wouldn’t? Dolenm had them fill huge halls and argue policy this, policy that. Emrist was a little shit of a girl who wouldn’t shut up. So smart she wrote laws when she was but eight. Brilliant mind, or so they say. Nothing like Dolenm, and bossy. I tied a rope to her legs and dangled her off the ship’s bow for an hour when she wouldn’t stop mouthing off to me.”
“Probably why she never awoke us and we had to sleep that long.”
Irg put in, and the crew laughed. Pewerthe stood in awe, but only for a moment. Then she smiled wanly.
“I’m not nearly so accomplished. I—only ask because of the situation in Khelt. Captain Cikroleth, you are the only person who remembers the Khelts of old. As we tour New Jecrass, I hoped I could consult with you?”
The Revenant turned from inspecting the wheel one of his people was holding. He glanced over, and the crew fell silent. The [Captain] spoke.
“Ah, judgment upon King Fetohep, is it? Dolenm told us that if ever we woke to a poor ruler, we should do for them what’s best for Khelt. Even if that means doing them in.”
“No, I didn’t mean—I was only asking—”
Cikroleth’s pale gaze didn’t waver as he shook his head.
“If I thought he was craven or a failure, I’d have cut his head from shoulders long ago. He led us to the Meeting of Tribes well. We heard Dolenm himself calling Fetohep’s praises at the last.”
“Aye.”
The crew chorused solemnly, and Pewerthe breathed again. Cikroleth beckoned her over to the chair and put his own feet up on a little table as a second chair was brought. He poured a drink of that undead liquid for her, and him, then lifted a cup.
“Khelt’s just dying is all. No ghosts. These undead don’t think. When first we rose, they were smart enough. Not people, but I could hear a thousand voices through them. Memories. The knowledge of how to swing a hammer from a long-dead [Smith], letting a skeleton repair wood. A [Soldier]’s bravery in their charge. Now they’re dumb, silent. Makes sense it’s all crumbling. Dolenm wouldn’t have been a [Pirate Lord] in his day if he couldn’t raise undead fleets with skeletons crewing them.”
She stared at the ghostly liquid in her cup and swished it around. Cikroleth nudged her with a boot.
“Have a drink.”
“What? It’s for undead—”
“It won’t kill you.”
Hesitantly, she lifted the cup to her lips, and the liquid spilled down like slow-moving, translucent mist the color of dark blue silver into her throat. She tried to swallow it and reflexively coughed and gagged—it had no real substance. But it made her feel…
Cold…
Cikroleth added after a second as Pewerthe turned pale as a sheet.
“Aye, well, that much won’t kill you. Drinking death-magic does that. Not a bad way to go. Reckon it would make things easier, maybe, if you downed the bottle.”
It tasted like long-dried almonds. Pewerthe gasped for air, then stared at him.
“You want me to become a Revenant?”
“Just a thought. Though two rulers of Khelt might not do more than one. But that Fetohep—he’s flailing, isn’t he? Haven’t come back, but even the scrying orb tells me he’s stressed to fraying.”
She eyed the cup and pushed it back. Cikroleth poured himself another drink without a word, and there was his—edge. She breathed, hearing her heart pick up after a few seconds.
“He—he doesn’t know how to handle defeat. He can’t buy the Prophet off, and we’re out of long-ranged spells, and the undead—I was hoping you could help! You’re Khelt’s Revenants!”
Cikroleth nodded. He cast a glance over the ship’s side.
“They’re not the strongest lot. Strange Skills, but I’ve hacked up plenty. Still, it’s one man’s crew versus thousands. Their weapons kill undead well, but if it was just them, we’d try it. Look; we’re passing by one lot now.”
She leapt up and was just in time to see a procession of robed men and women circling one of Khelt’s cities. They were so fast that Sand at Sea was nearly at Khelt’s borders already.
The People of God were besieging a city. Or rather, in the way of their faith, marching around the walls, shouting and chanting, banging drums and playing instruments. Much like the King of Reim had once done…
Only, where Flos Reimarch had once taken a city by sheer charisma and the loyalty of his people, the Prophet’s people only had faith.
And Skills or their Miracles. The walls of the city had holes in them. Even as Pewerthe stared, a huge section of beautiful, decorated wall cracked before the faith of the People of God. She saw no one in the street beyond; the Kheltians were hiding.
But the People of God froze when they saw the giant undead warship coming at them. Irg called out from the railings.
“One broadside, Captain, Heir?”
“Belay that. They’ve got our people as hostages. Mudball.”
Rad Rema handed Cikroleth a literal mudball made of the sand blowing around her and some water she had poured into a cookpot. He flicked it up, then tossed it as Sand at Sea hurtled past the People of God.
The mudball hit one of the leaders, a [Cleric], in the face, and the cry and sight of one of them going over made the crew laugh. Then they were gone, and Cikroleth turned back to Pewerthe. Only she realized he was actually displeased despite his light tone.
“Can’t risk it. That glowing lightball they carry might vaporize the entire damn ship.”
The People of God were not the foes Sand at Sea should be used against. Pewerthe knew that. Fetohep himself had considered going out to battle the Prophet—he was a peerless warrior, but undead-slaying specialists…
“What can you do, Captain? Where do you see yourself if things continue to grow worse?”
He shoved his hands into the pockets of his jacket and stared over the railing.
“Evacuating citizens, Heir, if it comes to a full invasion. Short of that, raiding and running interference on all the fleas soon to come calling. We’d have given that Lord of Roshal good battle if we were here when he attacked. ‘Till the end, that’s what Sand at Sea is for. Dolenm didn’t leave a navy; he didn’t think one was needed. Just a fast ship. That Vizir and Serept’s half-Giants were enough for wars.”
“But both have left Khelt. How could they?”
Pewerthe murmured as she sat on the decks. Cikroleth glanced at her, surprised.
“That Vizir hasn’t said a word to His Majesty? Not like him to ignore Khelt, for all he’s a right bastard.”
“No. And Fetohep has been trying.”
“Hmpf. Prideful. Like as not he just doesn’t want to be ordered around. As for Serept’s giants, Dolenm woke them for us to meet, out of curiosity. They care about Khelt as much as we, but also for half-Giants. He said something to them about safeguarding his people. They might return, but they’re not exactly…fast.”
So it was just Cikroleth’s ship in the end. No solution for the Prophet here. Pewerthe sagged. Then, she felt at her bag of holding.
“I have work to do, and I would like to keep speaking, but do you have a place out of the wind, Captain? I have pots to make.”
He stared at her as the entire crew turned. If she found them surreal and otherworldly…what a strange Heir of Khelt she was.
 
——
 
For all their own dissatisfaction about their ability to stem Khelt’s woes, Sand at Sea was still blazingly fast. The crew might still be swearing over not being able to fight Roshal—something they had clear guilt about—but Fetohep ordering them north when the Prophet had been an issue had one upside.
The undead warship had single-handedly been guarding New Jecrass this entire time. All the soldiers and undead that had been stationed in New Jecrass had been supplanted by a single warship crewed by battle-hungry Revenants.
They’d killed monsters, routed [Bandits], and even dealt with local crime with the efficiency of people who knew underworlds. Thus, by the time Pewerthe got to actually touring the former lands of Jecrass, now New Jecrass, she was surprised.
Eighteen pots were done by the time she got off the boat with sea-legs and wobbled down the gangplank to meet some surprised people. They were all shit pots, barely watertight, but they’d do…
“What brings you here, ah, official? Lady?”
The representatives of this city in Jecrass, Holhoofen, were horse-people. Not literally Centaurs, but people who were just as good with horses and who had wide, sprawling settlements thanks to Jecrass’ open plains and rivers.
It was lush to Pewerthe, who was used to plenty of drinking water, but not greenery all about. Captain Cikroleth spoke crisply.
“Yonder is none other than the Heir of Khelt, Pewerthe! Answer her questions and ours. Have you any more crime? Bandits? Monsters?”
The New Jecrassians turned to Pewerthe and almost genuflected there and then; they had no idea how to treat her, but when she told them she was inspecting the area for Fetohep, they seemed relieved.
“We feared we’d been doing something wrong, Lady, um, Your Highness. We asked about tribute or taxes, but we were assured none were to be paid. So we’ve…stockpiled gold. Since none is to be spent. Have we erred?”
“No, not at all. I was more sent here to survey the cities and hear their complaints.”
The woman who had been [Mayor] of the city until the changing from Jecrass to Khelt’s territory gazed at Pewerthe.
“Complaints? We have none, Heir.”
“Oh, surely you must.”
That was them being worried. Every city in Khelt had complaints, and that was before the bug problem. But the [Mayor] just scratched her hair.
“We receive food—wondrous food—to each city regularly. There’s no need to spend coins, and no crime. Not since Sand at Sea strung up the last gang. We received the scrying orbs, and the [Mages] have been enchanting houses nonstop. Half the city’s been building better homes together since construction materials are free.”
“You have? With what skeletons?”
“With…our [Carpenters], Lady Pewerthe. Together. It’s something most of the city’s done, or they’ve taken up other hobbies. Some of us visited main Khelt to see how it was done. No, we’ve no complaints. I know His Majesty has worried about the lack of entertainments here, but he’s sent a fortune in everything.”
Pewerthe stared at the woman. The city behind her didn’t appear wonderful at all, and then Pewerthe remembered how non-Kheltian cities looked. By the standards she remembered as a girl…
“Didn’t you lose a lot of citizens to Jecrass when the land was ceded to Khelt?”
That was the agreement Jecaina had struck; no citizen of New Jecrass would be forced to stay, and they would be compensated for the loss of their homes. The [Mayor] smiled.
“Some, but between Reim and Medain raiding us—most stayed. Why wouldn’t we? We owe His Majesty of Jecrass a great debt, but the war was long and…it was Khelt. Any other nation and we would have thought of leaving. But Khelt?”
Paradise. Pewerthe was so bemused, she cast around.
“You don’t have any problems? What about the bugs?”
And then the [Mayor] chuckled.
“What about them? All the officers and visitors here worried so much, but it’s been the lightest of springs imaginable. All the snow the Winter Sprites brought killed off most.”
The Heir to Khelt stood there as Captain Cikroleth snorted with amusement. She quickly realized that of all the places in Khelt right now…New Jecrass was probably the happiest.
 
——
 
New Jecrassians were just, uh, a bit hardier than Kheltians. They had flies. Horses drew flies to them as a matter of course, and what did you do? You swatted the buggers, then shoveled the manure to keep them from laying nests.
Duh.
Four cities, two towns, and any number of villages later and Pewerthe was relieved—and even more annoyed at her own people. The people here were only too happy. In fact, when she relayed the troubles of Khelt, they’d been positively alarmed.
“No one knows how to deal with insects in Khelt? At…all? If it’s so dire, we do have [Cleaners].”
Pewerthe had an idea after speaking to Mayor Vithalda, the first woman she’d talked to. Thus, Sand at Sea ended up picking up hundreds of New Jecrassians with the express purpose of coming back to Khelt for aid.
A visit to Khelt proper in exchange for smushing a few bugs interested lots of New Jecrassians. The other half were [Farmers] who were bored as could be and were interested in Farmer Colovt’s project.
Sand at Sea dropped off the first wave of New Jecrassians across the cities, and Pewerthe herself found Farmer Colovt, who was astonished—and gratified—by all the help.
“Pewerthe! I am delighted, but I have nowhere to host so many fine people!”
“We can sleep in the stables if there’s not enough beds.”
“And more can be sent for, Colovt. They’re hardier than, ah, regular citizens. They won’t wilt from a night’s rest.”
Colovt seemed horrified.
“Sleep in the stables? I only meant—I probably have enough couches and bedding, just not anything quality. Come in, please!”
His family rushed about to help settle the [Farmers], who had to stare at the skeletons and Golems tending these massive farms. They were so excited by the scale that they barely paid attention to bedding. Colovt would have been right there with them, but he drew Pewerthe aside.
“Pewerthe…may I ask you a question? I know you are on His Majesty’s business, but I have heard—rumors—from the north. I receive requests for special orders of crops, and my family travels. My youngest daughter told me she was turned away from going any further north than Ilishek.”
His youngest daughter was twelve, but she could sit on a wagon and drive it anywhere with little fear in Khelt. Colovt’s face was concerned, the crow’s feet at the edges of his eyes crinkled up.
“Pewerthe. I know His Majesty has asked for this great farming project for Khelt’s personal improvement, of course. But I have looked at the skeletons, and…and insects on my farm are one thing; I did live in Reim. Yet I’ve heard rumblings in many cities. Is all well in Khelt?”
She stood there as he held his hat in his hands and glanced at the New Jecrassians, who could see nothing wrong. Colovt’s face was careful, but she just took a breath, then shook her head.
“It is not well, Colovt. The skeletons have lost their ability to perform many tasks. Hence the insects. His Majesty is attempting to keep the matter secret, but that is why he asked you to create this farm. Khelt’s defenses and ability to handle matters in…everything…are jeopardized. It is a secret, especially to foreign nations, but the knowledge is becoming widespread, no matter what Fetohep and I do about it. That’s what’s going on.”
The blood drained from Colovt’s face. He swayed in place, as if she’d struck him, and she reached for him in case he fell. But then the man cast around.
“I have to tell my wife. So that’s why the Jaws…I knew he would not just attack. May I tell them, Pewerthe? I—”
She nodded, and he strode off before running back to assure her he would tell no one else and that he had questions. She glanced at Cikroleth. The undead [Captain] gave her a two-fingered salute.
“I have more people to drop off. Shall you come aboard, Heir?”
“No, it’s late. Pick me up tomorrow, Captain. I’ll make sure Farmer Colovt is well.”
 
——
 
Pewerthe spent that night in the overflowing farm house, but Colovt’s home was huge enough to be a mansion, and the New Jecrassians were in great spirits. They didn’t notice that Colovt himself and his wife and eldest daughter appeared withdrawn.
The [Potter] was worrying she’d made a mistake, but she felt the knowledge had to be told. Colovt spreading the news would be a drop in a bucket of problems. Anyways, she had her own countermeasures…
She was awake at an hour past midnight, digging a hole away from the fields, then filling it up as a Harvester Golem stared at her. Pewerthe finished tossing the pots into the hole and was almost done tamping the soil down when she saw another figure in the fields.
Farmer Colovt was pacing down the fields of crops, muttering to himself.
“…Has to be Yellats. Corn might do, but how much water do we have? We import so much of it, if we lose access to that—it needs to be sustainable. This won’t feed even a tenth of Khelt at this rate. They have to farm in New Jecrass too. More water there. Best place for it, really. [Druids] think we’ve killed all the bugs who could grow most crops. If we all start farming now—”
He jumped when Pewerthe called his name, and he spun. She saw him glance around guiltily.
“Potter, I was just…I told no one besides my family, I swear. I just had to get out and see how much we were growing. If we need to feed all of Khelt—”
Stress was eating at his hunched shoulders. He clearly was unable to sleep, but if he’d had a panic attack—Pewerthe stood there, smiling in the moonlight.
“You’re attempting to help, Colovt.”
“Well, yes, of course. This is my home. If I’d known why we needed the crops…”
Colovt appeared mystified by her smile. She came over and rested a hand on his shoulder.
“Fetohep should have trusted you long ago with the entire problem. We need more people like you, Colovt.”
“Nonsense. His Majesty knows what he’s doing. I just don’t know—are you truly a [Potter], Pewerthe? That’s the only thing I can’t figure out. You’re capable, of course. But His Majesty made you the Heir. Is there nothing more to it than your wisdom and insight?”
She laughed softly.
“Truly, Colovt? Not much more, no. His Majesty needs someone who can think like a non-Kheltian, and it’s a compliment I’m the top of the list. Oh, and he told me levels matter to survive the…conversion process. I’m higher level than almost anyone in Khelt. Level 42. Keep that secret.”
Colovt nearly did a backflip before trying to bow himself into the fields. She just hugged him, then bade him come inside with her so they could talk and before someone thought they were having an illicit rendezvous or something. She even decided, then and there, that they should be honest with the New Jecrassian [Farmers].
Not about the skeletons, maybe, but if Khelt was going to need to produce its own…produce, the truth had to come out. She wrote Fetohep that herself in the middle of the night before she went to sleep at 4 AM, tired but hopeful.
—She woke no less than twenty-four minutes later to her personal speaking stone going off.
“Pewerthe, report! You told Farmer Colovt everything? The New Jecrassians? This is unacceptable! We must contain—the hostilities against New Jecrassians may lead to harm of my citizens. The Prophet is doing something in the north. The [Mercenaries] are refusing to answer my messages and—”
“Your Majesty? I had to tell them. I’ll be there in the morning with Captain Cikroleth. I have ideas on how to use his services.”
Fetohep’s voice was overly-loud, a crescendo of alarm and tension.
“I am sending him to you now. I will see you within half an hour, and you shall explain yourself. Bring Colovt, and he will be sworn to—the Emperor of Sands has sent an army around the Great Desert. They are heading this way. There is a riot in…a riot has broken out in the main city. Return to—”
Pewerthe’s stomach twisted. The Empire of Sands? An army? And a riot? She spoke quickly.
“Isn’t the Empire of Sands just fighting Reim? An army was coming for ages before now. Your Majesty? I’ll be there right away. Fetohep?”
She thought for a moment that he was just ignoring her or taking a call. But after several minutes of pacing, a terrible suspicion came over her. She queried him again, repeatedly, until Farmer Colovt woke up, and then a panicked day-servant found the speaking stone and heard her voice.
She was running towards Sand at Sea the next minute, shouting at them to take her to the palace now. 
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was already restoring order in the palace by the time a panting Pewerthe arrived with Captain Cikroleth in tow. He had woken up; it had been barely an hour of ‘sleep’.
Nevertheless, the fact it had occurred again was a sign he was, what, overloading? Pewerthe saw the King of Khelt sweeping around as the day-servants stared at him with the wide-eyed horror of people who had seen reality shake.
“Ah, Pewerthe. I am quite recovered. More—taxation of my resources, that is all. You will report to me about Farmer Colovt now. I require your monitoring of him and the New Jecrassians lest word of what I wish to keep private spread. Captain Cikroleth, I have heard tell New Jecrass is well. Should you keep it secure, I shall be satisfied in all ways.”
He sat himself on his throne with a regal nod, and the Captain sketched a bow.
“By your will, Yer Majesty, it’ll be done. Say the word and we’ll be at Khelt’s borders within four hours, no matter where we are in New Jecrass. What of this army?”
“I am in negotiations. Drop Pewerthe back at the farms. Pewerthe, you are to—”
“No. I’m staying here. Cikroleth, I have orders for you. I want to see these riots.”
The King of Khelt visibly wavered as Pewerthe interrupted him. However—he was the [King] of Khelt, and he kept talking, his voice rising ever-so-slightly as to make it clear his will would be done and that he would not be gainsaid.
A kingly gesture that did not work because Pewerthe kept speaking. So there were two voices in the throne room.
“—ensure each [Farmer] is of good character and keep them from returning to New Jecrass. If needed, I shall have excuses made, and upon completion of this task, I shall then—”
“I want Frieke, Death Commander Lanodest, and anyone competent in Khelt reporting to me. They don’t have to be the best. But the second-best [Mage]. Speaking stones to the Quarass, um, the King of Khelt, and access to the armories. Didn’t the Blades of Serept get delivered? And then—”
“Pewerthe. I am speaking. You are not the ruler of Khelt.”
The King of Khelt’s voice thundered over her, and the servants fell to their knees. Pewerthe did not, and she saw Cikroleth giving her the side-flame with one eye. Fetohep’s were pinpoints of rage or alarm, but she faced him head-on.
“I am the Heir of Khelt.”
Gasps from behind her. Fetohep’s head jerked around.
“Day-servants, you are not to repeat this to anyone. Pewerthe, your status—”
“I am needed. I do not fear [Assassins] or corruption, Your Majesty, not now. You need my help—no. Khelt needs me to take authority, and I shall. If you disagree, remove me as your Heir! Otherwise, you will give me all I desire, and I shall help.”
She faced him, a [Potter] in her messy clothing, tired and mortal, and the King of Khelt stared down at Pewerthe. For a moment, outraged. Then…she thought he hid a smile with a hand. But his voice was stern.
“Some of what you desire shall be granted. Capable helpers. Lanodest. Not Adventurer Frieke or Cikroleth. I have need of them. Nor are the Blades of Serept to be used lightly. I shall allow you—”
“Captain Cikroleth, make Sand at Sea ready for a voyage, possibly dangerous. Frieke is my adventurer. You have Alked Fellbow.”
Another silence, and Cikroleth was grinning now. This time, Fetohep grew tangibly angry, she could tell.
“I am being indulgent of your role and status, my Heir Apparent. But I am still ruler of Khelt, am I not?”
Pewerthe’s lips pursed, and he seemed miffed none of his grandeur was working on her. As if she hadn’t stood in his presence for ages. As if he hadn’t trained her for this.
“You are being indulgent, Fetohep. Which is a mistake. I am your Heir.”
“Heir does not mean ruler of Khelt! You are no [Princess]—”
“Yes, but if I shall lead it, why are you coddling me? I am not a child, Fetohep, despite my lack of years! Did Xierca never ask anything of you? If she did not, and you never once spoke back to her or did what you think best, what a waste. Khelt is not stable enough for you to take it all on yourself. You are not in control!”
She shouted at him. Shouted, and they all flinched, the living and even the dead. Like the earth had shaken, and perhaps…Fetohep held out a hand, and Pewerthe realized the ground had trembled.
Was that…her? He sat there, unmoving, and then lifted his hand.
“Go.”
Did he mean to leave his presence or…? But Fetohep was already reaching for a scrying orb, and Pewerthe glanced at Captain Cikroleth. He was chuckling as she spun on her heel.
“Aye, that reminds me of Emrist and Dolenm, sure enough. Where to, Heir Pewerthe?”
She turned and began hurrying for the doors, but snapped at a motionless servant.
“Send word for Frieke to join me as soon as her duties are completed against the Prophet. Captain, you are to head east and find Vizir Hecrelunn and this New Khelt he’s started. Have him return here, or at least deliver the message such that he cannot ignore it. Impress on him what is happening to Khelt.”
“Aye, that’s dangerous enough. And if he makes a fight of it?”
“Then don’t damage your ship or crew beyond necessary. But before that…I want you to reach the Gnoll leaders of each tribe and Herdmistress Geraeri. Bring them here. Geraeri can probably run, but the Gnolls need transport. Um, um—”
They were striding through the palace now, and she felt like she was part of it. The greater undead, mindless though they might be, stood in alcoves and watched her as she passed, and she had no fear of them. Servants followed in her wake, and her heart was beating, but she felt alive. And afraid.
I am not ready for this. Khelt truly needs a better heir. And I shall find one, perhaps. But for now—
She ruled. Her first orders came fast, with uncertainty, but she remembered the teachings of Fetohep. One of which was this.
Never say ‘um’ or ‘ah’, just fall silent. Better to lower your cadence of speech than to impress upon anyone your true thoughts. 
She bit her tongue, and the result was a question after that pause, and the [Potter]’s head turned to meet Cikroleth’s gaze directly.
“Ere you leave Khelt, how likely is it you could kill the Prophet without risking Sand at Sea, Captain Cikroleth?”
His footsteps never wavered, but his head bowed in thought as she threw open some doors and strode inside.
“Hmm. Not great. I heard he was poisoned twice? If the Quarass can’t gut him rightly, he likely gets back up after ordinary killing. I knew Troll Pirates like that. Wouldn’t be an issue, though. We’d drag him behind the ship a hundred miles, but that floating light orb wastes undead like us. It’ll do for the ship. We could broadside him, but he’s in the city with Kheltians about him.”
Unacceptable casualties, in short. And it might not kill the Prophet. Pewerthe exhaled.
“Don’t escalate, then. Gnolls, Centaurs, Hecrelunn. Then get back to New Jecrass unless we have a real war. Can it hold for as long as you’re gone?”
The Revenant snorted as she threw open a chest, and sand billowed around them. She coughed, waved her hand, and spoke.
“Deactivate curse. Cikroleth?”
“We won’t be more than a few days at most to hit the coast and back; like as not less. Whether or not the ornery bastard listens? No [Bandits] are gonna ride in that fast, nor monsters, and if they do, we’ll get them. Armies are different. Organized raids are different.”
“Very good. Last question…”
Pewerthe bent down and lifted a longsword made of blue diamond up, and a bastard sword of brilliant white moonlight. She saw Cikroleth’s eye-flames dart to the chest, and Pewerthe smiled.
“Which color suits me?”
 
——
 
There wasn’t really a good reason for Pewerthe to have a Diamond Sword of Serept. She just wanted one. If it came to a battle, she was not a warrior, and many of Khelt’s woes could not be solved by the tip of the blade, anyways.
But it was very cool. Though the blue sword’s ambient magic was to humidify the air, even draw water out of barren ground—she stopped spraying the ground with water after half an hour of figuring out the effects.
Fetohep was mildly appalled—he kept in communication with her and had already assigned her a number of artifacts, and his voice, when he spoke to her, sounded distinctly pained.
“The Pact of Temius was the blade you took?”
“The blue sword of Serept, yes.”
“The blue—you are not intending to use it on the rioters, surely? Frieke is not here yet. You should avoid them until you have a bodyguard. My officials are trying to quell the violence, but they are outnumbered, Pewerthe.”
“I have it in hand, Fetohep.”
“But if you are harmed—”
Pewerthe stood, surveying the nighttime riot, and she touched the hilt of the Blue Sword of Water as she sighed.
“I will not be. Tell me, Your Majesty. How many riots have you seen?”
“…I assume this is a trick question. Khelt has never suffered a riot. In my mortal days? Unrest, but I do not believe I recall one.”
“Mm. I’ve seen food riots.”
“Ah. Upon the Kheltian scale of 1 to 10, this would b—”
“0.2, I think.”
The Kheltian ‘riot’ was the strangest and saddest thing Pewerthe had ever witnessed. It was true that citizens had taken to the streets over the bugs, the lack of Fetohep’s attention, and other factors. They did not have all the pieces, but they knew something was wrong.
But they rioted like, well, children. Real riots were terrifying. When a crowd formed that would not stop or slow, everyone ran. The Watch, [Mages], even soldiers. They could burn buildings, kill, even by accident or the press of bodies, and the desperation that pushed people to a riot often meant it had no end until the energy had fully been let out.
The Kheltian riot had no violence. It didn’t even have shoving. The people did not storm the palace. They shouted at officials and vented their anger not on each other or the statues of the rulers of Khelt. Instead, they, well…smashed things.
Which was very riot-like, you had to give it to them. Vases were hurled onto the streets, clothing ripped, even burned! Kheltians hit walls, overturned chairs, raised pottery overhead to smash down—
Then realized they were on Cythway, and the street was made of polished half-Elven resin and wood from over ten thousand years ago. Far too important to break anything onto, even if it was enchanted.
So they went to another street. For all their pique, no Kheltian was breaking anything really important.
All the beautiful works of art, the most prestigious buildings, were carefully ignored. Yes, they shouted and screamed and hurled things, but Pewerthe saw several Kheltians behind the ones throwing objects sweeping up some of the broken pieces, admonishing them not to leave too many shards around in case someone got hurt.
Someone had already begun taking broken pieces from the riot and was making a new composite art piece they were labelling ‘The Unhearing King’, which was Fetohep with his hands over his ears.
Pewerthe rubbed at her forehead as several officials turned to her, expecting her to deal with this unprecedented breach of the peace.
“Okay. Riots dealt with.”
She let them vent their anger. They had bigger problems to deal with.
 
——
 
It was funny. Each day felt like the final disaster, the straw that would break the proverbial camel’s back. It was always something unprecedented.
A riot in Khelt. The Prophet in the north. An army from the Empire of Sands on its way. Roshal’s raid.
Each time, Pewerthe’s stomach hurt and she was terrified, but each day, they endured, and the next day felt worse, but by then a new problem had arisen, and the last one felt…not better, but smaller because the pile of issues was growing.
It taxed Fetohep most of all, she was sure. He was restless, and his tone became harried, at least with her. Outwardly, he was presenting that all in Khelt was well, but she knew it was not as she became a true second ruler of Khelt, moving around and putting out fires. It would have weighed on Pewerthe enough that she snapped except for, amazingly, Frieke.
Fetohep of Khelt hadn’t exactly, uh, done his research when it came to hiring Frieke. He’d only run a few background checks to ensure she was of good character and not hiding some terrible trait, but her career as an adventurer or personality he hadn’t truly cared about investigating. So here was what made Frieke the Falcon special:
The worse it got for Khelt, the more cheerful Frieke seemed to be. The more it sucked, the more active and the more effort the Named-rank put in. She even smiled more.
 
——
 
It was rather annoying, actually. Frieke went from lazily meeting Pewerthe at breakfast to rising before dawn, boots on, ready for battle, and on Pewerthe’s doorstep before the [Potter] had swung out of bed. Was she happy?
…Sort of? Frieke had known it was too good to be true. She didn’t like this, but she liked being needed, if that made sense.
“It’s like being in the poop hole. You always wonder if you’re there, and when you don’t know, that’s the concerning part, like exploring a too-easy dungeon. But when the poop starts coming down, well, that’s bad, but at least you know, right?”
Konska and Pewerthe eyed her as she relayed that over a midnight dinner one time. Pewerthe put down her sandwich.
“Is this from personal experience?”
“Oh, sure. Someone’s gotta clean them out, and most big cities have one. When do you want me in the morning, boss?”
Her new duties also dovetailed nicely with her hobby. Though instead of chronicling Khelt in the modern age, more and more, Frieke became convinced she was writing an account of its fall. She had begun writing letters to Satar, though she was obviously not sending them yet. It helped get her thoughts out. She wrote the first one briefly after the first riots had begun in Khelt. Six cities where demonstrations had turned into public anger, then simmered down by morning. She was a bit shaken from her brush with the Prophet’s people, too.
 
Dear Satar Silverfang,
The situation in Khelt has continued deteriorating a week after the Roshal raid, though few people seem to even know it occurred. I cannot quite believe that; an entire city was thrown into terror, and they do talk and move around! It isn’t like His Majesty can order them to pure silence or he’s quarantined them.
The same with the Prophet in the north. Some people are aware, but it isn’t a mass-consciousness of what’s going on. I wonder if it’s some kind of Skill or his spies? Higher-level people seem far more stressed than normal…
The citizens who were nearly taken [Slaves] are shaken, though. Lots of [Thought Healers] called for, and His Majesty sent for the kid who met the Slave Lord. And all of his soldiers. He seems to be gathering anyone capable to him in the palace; the Gnolls and Centaurs have both agreed to help. I think it shook Herdmistress Geraeri out of her funk, and the Gnolls aren’t happy, but we all get it.
Kheltians think the world is ending, but it’s not. Not yet. Even the Prophet is relatively tame. I’ve seen [Bandits] take over a city. No one’s safe, but the Prophet’s people don’t harm anyone not coming at them. They might take your possessions, but they don’t assault people, they just preach, and they haven’t advanced far.
Not enough numbers to hold more than a few cities. But they’re up to something. I’ve tangled with their people, and they’re not that great. Better than your average [Soldier] with their weird Skills, and the high-level ones are unpredictable. Their worst quality is their healing: they get right back up. It makes it easy to go in, break some bones, and get out, but they’re healed within the hour, and I feel like I’m counterlevelling them.
Lots of citizens are fleeing the Prophet’s people, who’re mostly…looting? Again, they’re doing something weird. I captured a few who said their [Prophet] hit a capstone, and they’re performing a ‘sacrament’. Don’t know what that is, and I don’t like it. For now, no one’s trying to kill the other. Khelt has a lot to lose, and the Prophet probably knows open war will get more of his people killed, but between you and me?
They’re coming for Khelt. Lots of their own died from the Arrows of Razzimir spell, and they want blood. They’re holding back because there’s a plan, but without an army of our own, we can’t engage. Weird stalemate. So long as we’re going non-lethal, Alked and I can hold the line. Pro-tip: if they can heal anything, even stabs, poisoning, etc., go for a [Falcon Kick] to the groin. It drops them, even with healing, for at least half a day, especially if you rupture something. Male or female.
Pewerthe has us going to New Jecrass and liasoning with Gnolls, Centaurs, etc. Captain Cikroleth came back from his ship voyage, and we’re trying to take on the crisis of bugs. I’ll write more about that later. 
—Frieke of Medain Khelt.
 
PS. Pretty sure other nations are starting to catch on about the Prophet. I swear I saw the Arbiter Queen calling His Majesty, and that weird [Sand Mage], Trey, was visiting the palace the other day. Also, there’s some random white Gnoll girl who keeps walking through walls and a shortie with awesome clothing. Is that from the inn? Or ghosts?
 
——
 
The solution to Khelt’s insect and skeleton-power woes was simple: find a group of people who could step on a roach and not spend the rest of the month in bed. Even if they couldn’t kill all the bugs, do something to shut up the citizens and keep the other nations from noticing.
One might reasonably ask why Pewerthe even cared about the damn bugs. Fetohep did, but Pewerthe?
She had a few reasons to make the bug problem her priority. Firstly, Fetohep cared. If she didn’t deal with it, he would fixate on the problem as if it were the same as the Prophet, and she needed him focused.
The second reason was that it was a sign of Kheltian weakness. Everyone talked in this modern age, and it was one more crack in Khelt’s façade if other nations realized they were having domestic issues like this. But the third reason was the simplest, and only Pewerthe understood why it was so important.
Bugs made the Kheltians upset. They hated the little things, and if Pewerthe could deal with the bugs, even for a little bit, they’d stop complaining. Gossiping. Griping. She needed them to be quieter. Khelt’s safety hinged on its citizens not being little babies and blathering to each other. If they kept it up, things would—break.
What a problem. Hence, her cleanup initiatives and tackling the bugs as a true threat.
To that end, Pewerthe enlisted the three Gnoll tribes, the Centaurs, and even thousands of New Jecrassians which Sand at Sea ferried to Khelt, and it worked for a time.
Bemused Gnolls, Humans, and Centaurs didn’t mind finding a nest of ants and digging it out, and even some Kheltians got involved creatively, like pouring metal into the nests and coming away with funky sculptures of the tunnels and habitats the insects had dug. It got Kheltians distracted, and the riots ceased…for a week.
Then it went south. Former-Chieftain Qirrel was the first to point it out to Pewerthe, who was busy making her stupid pots. She was spinning one impatiently off her wheel as he eyed her, but they were all used to her odd behavior.
“Heiress, about our help in the cities.”
“Yes? The insects aren’t going away, are they?”
Pewerthe wore a rueful expression. She might be worldly compared to Fetohep and her people, but she was still naïve from so long in Khelt. She had hoped that if the others offered their time, the insect ‘plague’ would diminish, but no such luck.
This was just the relative number of insects any city got. Without the skeletons working nonstop, ants spread, bugs flew and reproduced…maybe their nonstop proliferation due to the Kheltian’s lax standards had halted, but this appeared to be a permanent thing.
Qirrel knew that, and he sat cautiously, scratching at some dried soap on one arm. He placed something on the ground next to her kiln.
“No, I think the insects are here to stay, and all those who volunteered are not minding hunting them down. It is not exactly the hardest of work since we have numbers, and no one is pushing us, yes? However—no one is paid in Khelt.”
“No, they’re not. We should give you all something to reward you for your efforts.”
Pewerthe was thinking of what could be appropriate. Fetohep would probably flip if she handed out a Diamond Sword of Serept…then she noticed Qirrel’s expression.
“What is it?”
She peered at what he’d put down, and he sighed.
“This is what I was given by a very friendly [Mayor] of the city I was assisting in. Not just me; each member of my tribe was given this.”
It was a stack of coupons, vouchers, the faux-currency Kheltians loved. Tickets for private massages, theaters, restaurants, even some handmade coins and a few gold pieces. The moment Pewerthe saw it, she sighed and glanced up.
“Ah, they’re trying to make it up to you.”
Qirrel smiled gently.
“Yes, and we understand it is an attempt to repay us for our efforts, and we shall accept, of course. With that said, tomorrow is the last day we shall be assisting. We hope to teach Kheltians the basics of how to deal with pests and other issues. If they wish to learn, they may visit us. We can have classes taught by, er, children.”
She frowned, putting the clay pot on a tray for the kiln.
“Only tomorrow? You won’t consider another day?”
“No.”
“What if—”
“We do not wish to be paid for cleaning and working, Potter Pewerthe. The other members of my tribe agree: it is a bad precedent. And I think…if I were you, I would consider asking the New Jecrassians to cease their work as well. I have noticed the Centaurs moving away from their efforts too. We are not unwilling. It is a matter of foresight, you understand?”
She didn’t, for a little bit, until she thought about it and was reminded of Fetohep’s warning.
Second-class citizens. The Gnolls did not want to become the group that replaced skeletons and swept and cleaned in paradise.
“Nor is that their job. Argh. His Majesty was right!”
Within half a day of the three groups ceasing their work, Pewerthe and the officials were inundated with requests for them to return along with ever-rising offers from Kheltians to persuade someone else to do the tasks for them. When they became demands, she put her foot down.
Which led right back to protests with a call for New Jecrassians to come back as [Cleaners]. Pewerthe developed a headache. She hoped she’d bought time for Fetohep to resolve issues on his side.
 
——
 
While Pewerthe handled public issues, at least temporarily, Fetohep was trying to attend to both issues of state and what he perceived to be Khelt’s greatest problem: a lack of viable manpower. Or womenpower.
Or any kind of competency. The day-servants were not able to keep up with his needs. His officials were barely more than peacekeepers who enforced rules. He needed soldiers to fight the Prophet, people he could trust.
He juggled this while keeping a wary eye on other nations. The Empire of Sands…the [Emperor] was a cunning, regal individual with far more weight behind them than their short tenure as ruler suggested.
She was only too willing to speak with Fetohep and deliver a lengthy conversation, equal-to-equal, regarding her army’s presence near Khelt’s border.
“In the end, it is, purely, a manifestation of the hazards of Zeikhal that forced my army towards your bountiful lands, Your Majesty. This army is but the first of many. Already, we have skirmished with the Garuda led by the Lord of the Skies.”
“So I have heard, Empress. It is not my desire to arbitrate any wars between other nations. I merely caution you to keep your forces out of my realm.”
Fetohep stressed that last, and she smiled, giving nothing away. He had heard the Emperor of Sands was a powerful, commanding warlord, but she seemed to be purely focused on diplomacy-Skills.
Strange. Body double? Or something else? Perhaps she was just that adaptable, but the Empress inclined her head.
“Reim shall soon know the breadth and scope of my war with them, and I merely request your forbearance; no force of mine shall sully Khelt’s inviolate borders.”
In another time, with the full weight of Khelt behind him, Fetohep might have told her to keep her armies a hundred miles clear of his borders or suffer his wrath. He was half of a mind to, but if she called his bluff…
He would have sent ten thousand skeletons marching at her if she so much as offered him a single slight. But she had not, and so he made a show of mulling her request over before nodding once.
“Let it be so, as a mark of esteem for a new ruler come to Chandrar. Stitch-folk speak well of your reign, Empress. This, I consider, as well as the discourtesies offered to me by the King of Destruction. I allow this.”
She bowed her head.
“It is an honor, King of Khelt. I should be wary, then, to not make the mistake of slighting Khelt. Perhaps my [General of Sands] may, with your permission, leave a gift at the borders to show my appreciation?”
It was all so well-done and said that he would have smiled if not for the unsettling worry at the back of his mind. Fetohep waved his hand, and later, he watched a news report showing the army from the Empire of Sands firing arrows at circling Garuda.
War had come to Reim, and the King of Destruction’s push into Nerrhavia blunted only slightly; he sent Takhatres to smash the army, and they fell back in retreat. The next week, a second army crossed the desert. Then a third. None drew closer than forty miles to Khelt’s borders, but he felt that unease. What was the Empire of Sands planning?
The Empress couldn’t think to win a land war against the King of Destruction, not with each army so far out of position. Her nation was large enough to sustain several on the offensive, even if they took the heavy casualties Flos Reimarch loved to dish out, but it was just a waste of troops.
Neither she nor Flos had engaged because the sheer distance between their nations meant that it would require a long, sustained offensive push into the other’s domains. Better to expand first. Perhaps she was just intending to raid him or coordinate with Nerrhavia’s Fallen and halt him from taking too much territory there.
Fetohep didn’t know, but the topic of [Soldiers] had him summoning Lanodest to the palace that first week. As well as the boy he had met.
 
——
 
Anleth was in awe of the royal palace, and his family was petrified of their vast, royal chambers, but it was the will of His Majesty after the trauma they had endured.
Everyone was going to the [Thought Healers], and the rest of his family were too nervous to even speak to the King of Khelt over breakfast, but the boy thought the [King] paid attention to him and even expected Anleth to answer, so he did.
“So you have no nightmares, young Anleth?”
“No, Your Majesty.”
Anleth lied after a second, and he only had them every other day. Fetohep nodded once.
“This is well. Such moments can be overcome with mastery of one’s self, not with distractions. It is my will that you visit Koirezune and stay in the palace a time.”
“W-will the [Slavers] of Roshal return, Your Majesty?”
Anleth’s father, Baazem, asked, and Fetohep slashed the air instantly.
“Never again, Baazem. This I have ensured.”
They all relaxed, relieved. Perhaps he’d sent armies against Roshal or threatened them with more destruction or a Jaw. That was what everyone said, but Anleth didn’t know. The conversation with Thatalocian and Fetohep kept replaying in his head, and it didn’t sound like—
The golden, kindly gaze of his [King] distracted the boy, and he fumbled with the half-Elven breakfast of delicate fruits and leaves. He munched on one, and Fetohep spoke.
“Content yourself, my subjects. And let us, perhaps, see if anything may stoke your own passions and talents. I have proclaimed that Khelt should reclaim its many talents. Do any of you practice the sword? Magic? Archery, perhaps?”
Most of Anleth’s family had tried—he’d not been allowed to use edged weapons—and they fell over themselves telling him about their practice. Fetohep listened keenly, but he paused for a moment when only Baazem revealed he’d gained the [Sword Trainee] class. He was Level 3.
“I see. Perhaps more sword-training would steady your nerves, Baazem. For the rest of you, let us branch out your interests. What is it you practice normally?”
Baazem and Mirala, Anleth’s parents, eyed each other. Mirala spoke, smiling.
“Baazem and I are [Cuisinists], Your Majesty.”
“…Beg pardon? Ah, [Chefs]. Of course.”
“Oh, no. Neither of us cook.”
“[Gourmets], then? I am not familiar with the class.”
Fetohep tilted his head, and Mirala laughed.
“No, Your Majesty! You jest so finely. We design menus!”
“Ah, for restaurants.”
A pause, and Anleth grinned at the fine joke. Mirala hesitated, and Baazem smiled broadly.
“No, for those who enjoy restaurants, Your Majesty! Ours is quite popular in our city, though I fear no one is in the mood to cook—but we also do fine menus for personal cooking. None our own recipes, of course. We don’t write recipes, you see. We simply select the best ones.”
“The best banana bread—there are so many inferior recipes that finding the right one took over fifty taste-tests. We develop fine eating for Kheltians who, ah, gain too much weight. There are of course spells and tonics, but the cleansing process is so horrid—follow our plans and even the pickiest eater can lose weight without a Skill! Of course, it’s not just food. We have a theatre viewing order for plays, all the best ones closest to the Players of Celum. In fact, we hope to visit the city and come up with our Koirezune travel picks!”
Did the flames in Fetohep’s gaze shrink ever-so-slightly with each passing sentence? Possibly, possibly. Anleth watched with fascination as the [King] nodded after a moment and smiled.
“Such fine perception in my subjects. And you, Cora, as Anleth’s sister, what do you do?”
The girl was sixteen, and she nearly leapt to her feet.
“I, um, I don’t have a true hobby yet, Your Majesty. But I do make beaded necklaces.”
She had thousands of beads from other nations, which she traded with other bead-loving Kheltians. Glass, wood, ceramic, even her prized possession: an Orebu-Beetle’s polished chitin made into a bead.
“A fortune in beadery. I see; your bracelets certainly delight the eye. Naturally, I trust you shall enjoy yourselves in the city. And perhaps find some time to pursue some training…?”
They all promised of course they would, though Anleth personally knew that Cora hadn’t fired more than three arrows when she’d tried to be an archer before slapping her arm with the bowstring and going to get a healing potion and never picking up the bow again. He thought Fetohep understood this, and when the King of Khelt turned his gaze to Anleth, the boy shivered.
For it felt like Fetohep placed his hopes on him.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest was surprised when Anleth appeared behind Fetohep, but he and the entire forty-some [Soldiers] were kneeling the moment the King of Khelt entered the practice courts.
For once, Fetohep was not wearing robes; instead, he had put on armor of all things. It was so surreal everyone stared at him, and he adjusted bracers on one arm.
“Tsk. Rise, Commander, and all present. Armor fits the body poorly in death, but I assure you, I once wore this as a second-skin. I have come to inspect your training and, perhaps, give guidance.”
Lanodest’s heart began to beat faster at this, and he bowed deeply.
“Your Majesty, we would be honored by your instruction. Especially after our failures against the Claiven Earth and the…Prophet.”
They all went silent at this. Fighting nations to the north had been one thing. The undead had done almost all the work and Lanodest, and the other officers had stayed back, using their Skills, fighting rarely. Some of them had died, but it had been exciting, triumphal. Lanodest had survived several clashes by way of his artifacts and enchanted equipment and felt like he was gaining in levels and battle experience each time.
The Prophet had been different. The mortal soldiers had been beaten down, literally in some cases, and stripped of possessions. Defeated by a rabble of strangers and seen the undead break. It felt…fragile, somehow, in Lanodest’s head.
They were Khelt. They should not lose, but they had. And it was his fault as one of the most senior members of Khelt’s military.
He was ashamed, but when Fetohep placed a hand on his shoulder, the man’s head rose. The golden smile warmed his spirits.
“Rise, Lanodest. Centuries divide us, but we are warriors, and there is only one solution to weakness: training. Will. Long have I neglected my own martial heritage. I considered it unseemly for a [King] to spar, but I was a [Warrior] once, who fought as a mercenary before my death. Allow me to appraise your abilities and train you in some small way.”
Everyone knew that Fetohep had been a warrior; it was in his history books, his story they told. But it was one thing to know it, another to see him pull a practice halberd off the racks and swing it effortlessly. The gust of wind made the boy, Anleth, gasp, as Fetohep raised the halberd with a pleased expression.
“My weapon of choice. Though a warrior uses many. I have been reduced to fighting with my bare fists at times. Lanodest, you first, then whomever dares it. Step forwards, and give the boy, Anleth, a practice weapon if he is so inclined. Say I were a great foe of Khelt. Stop me.”
He stood there, and Lanodest hesitated. Someone gave Anleth a little practice sword, which he began swinging with all his might as if to level there and then, and the others watched with palpable excitement.
But Lanodest was suddenly clammy, sweating, unable to advance on the sheer presence of the king who stood at his ease in the courts, halberd pointing at Lanodest, unmoving.
Lanodest was thin and tall, but he had a beanpole’s configuration. He didn’t have the sheer muscle or weight behind the simple shield and sword he raised that other men or women might have. When he mustered his courage to attack, in a practiced series of chops and cuts, Fetohep grunted.
“I see. You have practiced well.”
“Thank you—Your Majesty!”
The blows met the halberd’s haft as Fetohep parried the entire thirty-three blows that Lanodest attacked with. The man tried to change up the combinations, a left-right swing, a stabbing uppercut, all swift blows, but he had the feeling Fetohep could block them in his sleep.
“Movements are adequate. Force…could stand to test one’s guard more. Muscle, perhaps. It might well cut a foe in battle, but not a high-level one. There is no threat in your attacks, Lanodest. You fight like a Golem. Improvisation is the key. Sword and shield.”
He stopped and had a sword and shield given to him. Then he told Lanodest to guard—or even attack if he was confident—and went on the offensive.
To Lanodest’s relief, Fetohep’s blows were light as a feather. He didn’t even move that fast; Lanodest found himself stumbling backwards to laughter and cheers, then blocking, realizing that Fetohep was attacking exactly like the Training Golem in the palace. Perfectly mimicking Lanodest’s own form—no, improved on it!
But since the speed and strength were the same as Lanodest’s, or even a step below, the man found himself parrying and blocking on instinct. Their pace increased until he was slapping down Fetohep’s blade with growing confidence, and the ruler was pleased.
“Excellent. We make for a pretty pair, do we not?”
“Yes…Your Majesty!”
The Revenant’s tone was playful.
“But impressive swordplay does not a good warrior make. No one should aim to duel a foe thusly even half a minute! A warrior kills or aims to wound. I shall go on the offensive. Lanodest, adapt—now.”
This time, he came at Lanodest with the same pattern, a left slash that you could block, but would make the right shield punch forwards; if you dealt with both, the attacker stepped back and slashed up, a retreating blow meant to punish an aggressive counterattack.
Muscle memory had Lanodest letting his shield block the sword blow and keeping his sword clear of the shield strike on his other side. He even managed for a daring counter, a slice at the inside of Fetohep’s guard. He stepped forwards, moving right to punish the sword flick u—
Instead of stepping backwards, Fetohep continued the spin as his shield shot out, and whirled around Lanodest’s side, past his sword. He didn’t do it fast—but at the same even speed he’d been attacking with, he threw out an arm, and Lanodest ducked the tip of the sword with an alarmed shout.
He ran into the shield, which slammed into his face. Not as hard as could be, but he staggered and heard a voice.
“And dodge.”
He saw a sword aimed down at him, to thrust into his face, and threw himself sideways instinctively, forgetting they were dulled. Lanodest rolled to his feet, shaken, and the crowd murmured. Fetohep advanced.
“Improvisation. It is not about speed, nor even skill, but unpredictability. As so—”
He came at Lanodest, chopping down. Lanodest parried the right chop, slashing—the shield came up, knocking his hand upwards.
“Opening.”
Fetohep slashed low under the guard before Lanodest could get his sword down. He stepped back, and this time, Lanodest attacked first. He leapt, a wild slash across Fetohep’s throat.
A block with the shield. The mortal man caught himself, pivoted, throwing his weight into a [Power Slash]!
Fetohep took another step back. The blow missed him, and struck the ground so hard the sword shivered out of Lanodest’s grip. He raised his shield, and Fetohep’s sword glanced off it. Lanodest defended two-handed, and another sword blow glanced off the shield. He could do this! Fetohep was not coming at him fast or strong. Block again—the undead king hooked his shield into Lanodest’s. Lanodest tore his shield free as they tried to jostle—and Fetohep poked him in the armpit with his sword.
“Thusly, a true expert can unnerve even a faster foe. Once, I met an old man who must have been eighty years of age. No Stitch-man; he moved with such frailty half his foes mocked him before they died. The other half tried to spare him. Never before have I been pressed by such a slow foe. This is but one way to advance oneself. You attempt to do so, Lanodest. And the rest of you.”
The Death Commander wasn’t even red with shame; the others were cheering, and the day-servants and even some Kheltians had come to watch with Anleth. All were stunned by this display of mastery.
Of course, Lanodest had been there when Fetohep assailed Medain. From his dancing upon the Jaws’ backs to his peerless strategy in battle, even while puppeting a false body, he had burned himself into the man’s mind as a peerless king. Now, the man tried to copy what he’d been shown.
Fetohep stepped back and watched, then took on another eager soldier. After two hours, he told his exhausted subjects, from Anleth to Lanodest, to rest.
“We shall continue the next morning. Rest, reflect.”
He left the practice courts smiling. The next day, they were all there and practicing even before he turned up, and they went three hours. The fourth day, just as long, and he was pleased, despite bad news on every other front.
Captain Cikroleth returned on the fourth day and informed Fetohep that the message to the Vizir had been delivered, in person.
“The old [Vizir]’s making some kind of new kingdom on the coast. Terrified people, but safe. He’s burned every [Bandit] and [Thief] he can find. He wasn’t pleased to hear your message. He claims he just mana-burned every [Message] you sent. He’ll be here sooner or later, though he promised nothing.”
Better and better. Fetohep went back to training. For the first week, as Pewerthe’s cleaning initiatives worked, his spirits were high.
In the second week, they sank.
 
——
 
Something was wrong. Commander Lanodest attacked with a great fervor, throwing in new cuts and attacks at Fetohep, and the Revenant killed him. The other soldiers advanced, throwing in improvisation, new muscle memory and exertion, the Grimalkin Gymnasium putting muscle onto their frames, and their diets were refined—he had even given them Drathian elixirs to speed their growth.
He killed them.
Not physically. Just light taps, admonishments to move this way, to avoid this habit. He was not a great [Trainer], but Fetohep had been a warrior, as he said. He knew battle. It was arguably his one talent, which was why Xierca’s choice of him had always been…desperate. She had believed Khelt needed a loyal, brave son who knew the outside world, but his ability to fight had been the least valuable thing about him. Far better to have one such who had administrative Skills or magic.
Even now, fighting himself was foolish when he had armies, even if they were mindless skeletons. Alked could do anything Fetohep needed, but the Revenant knew battle.
And he could slaughter the forty-some soldiers and Lanodest with his eyes closed. Even without his Skills. Something was horribly wrong.
During the start of the second week, he called them to stop and face him. When they smiled and raised their blades, Fetohep spoke.
“Treat this like a true battle. I shall move faster. Slightly faster. As fast as Lanodest, perhaps. Aim to kill me. I shall not fall for a blow to my armor, and I shall treat you as if you are also armored. Down me; I shall inform you if you are dead. Step aside if you take a deathblow you know to be true.”
A full sparring session. Forty versus one?
“Shall we come at you in waves, Your Majesty?”
Lanodest asked, grinning fit to burst. Fetohep glanced at Anleth, who had been practicing with a sword, at the servants and Kheltians, and shook his head. The practice court had places to sit, an audience—and the central square was just faded cobblestone in a mosaic of colors. The palace beyond, dark stone corridors. Fetohep stood there in his armor, mismatched pieces, like some tattered [Ghoul Knight] with the eyes of a king. He had only sword and shield.
“No. Come at me all together. Kill me. Please.”
They hesitated—then the first woman rushed him, shouting for her friend to come attack from the other side. He swung his sword through her neck as he pivoted.
“Death.”
Her head did not roll. She just froze, then laughed and bowed. Her friend died just as fast as her spear glanced off his shield and he moved. Sword snaked up and kissed her throat, one of the few weak spots in their armor.
“Death. Fight hard.”
They tried to surround him, then, coming forwards, knowing not to jostle each other. But Fetohep was running. He speared a man through the helmet and heard the gasp before he pulled the blade an inch from the eye.
“Death—”
Knocking them down. A clash of armor. They backed up, apologizing, then tried to swing on him. Blows on his chestplate. He emerged as the tentative strikes grew harder, hitting someone in the throat with his shield.
Not death, just a coughing wheeze. A headbutt and a cry as it drew blood. Fetohep spun, slashed across his face.
“Death.”
They were running to surround him now, and he stepped back. Off the practice courts, into the stands. They blinked and froze, then realized he had not said where he would fight. Kheltians leapt away, laughing.
“Your Majesty, victory!”
Fetohep said nothing. The other soldiers tried to advance into the stands and found the seats an impediment. Fetohep used one of the poles to block blows, watching a spear—he let it glance off a shoulder. Only thrusts here. He lanced three blows into a visor. The soldier sat down.
“I yield! My head is ringing—”
Fetohep stopped a second. Stared down.
“One does not yield in battle.”
A surprised sound. The [Soldier] made to rise, and he kicked her in the face. Stepped forwards and used the scrum of bodies to stab. And now his shield was bashing, slamming into them. Not hard, but hard as a grown man like Lanodest might. Their tentative blows became stronger as pain made them angry, even though he was their [King].
And yet—Fetohep backed up, step by step, then leapt off the bleachers. A few had known to circle around, but he dropped with sword in both hands and killed a halberdier.
“Too close to me. Death.”
He charged four men and women, and they thought to kill him, not thinking he should charge them, but what was armor if not this?
“I am wearing plate! Fight me as if you were trying to kill a [Knight]! Where are your Skills?”
“[Snake C—]”
He hurled an axe into a face and broke a tooth. Another Skill trying to be used; Fetohep rolled, and the [Hook Blow] blow took another soldier down. Friendly fire. He was running again, now into the palace.
“Fight me, soldiers of Khelt.”
Now they were running only to find he had vanished into the place he knew well. They slowed and tried to form squads. Lanodest was staring around when a shadow moved from behind a suit of armor. Fetohep’s sword cleaved through three. And then his voice rose, and the cheering outside stopped.
“I said fight me. What are you doing, sons and daughters of Khelt?”
A sword struck his shield, and they backed up. The men and women he’d hit were lying on the ground, clutching at their wounds, crying out. They were soldiers. Fetohep struck his shield again, and how he roared. Now he saw it.
“Kill me or die!”
 
——
 
Twenty-seven dead. Twenty-nine. They were using Skills. He was not. He grabbed one struggling soldier and held her in place to eat a [Power Strike] from Lanodest. Shoved her forwards. Charged them, backed up.
It was not how he fought; he alternated from drawing them out to the ferocity of charging them and using his armor to take blows, and they had struck him. They had force and weight, and he wagered that they could have killed any number of lower-level [Warriors], even ones at their level.
But not him. And not…he knocked a blade down from Lanodest and locked swords with the man. They were both struggling, slipping, and Lanodest wasn’t smiling like Anleth anymore. He was panting and tried for a ginger headb—
Fetohep’s broke his nose. The man stumbled and cried out, and Fetohep was past him, running through another man, and they were wide-eyed. Stumbling backwards.
Little more than five left. He cut them down even as they bunched together. So fast and effortlessly that Lanodest was dead before he managed to clutch at his nose, and then Fetohep spoke.
“Get up. Try once more. All of you, right now.”
Some were injured, bleeding. They turned to him, and he heard protests.
“I said stand. Kill me.”
They stared at him, and this time, Lanodest raised his blade and attacked Fetohep from the side with a desperate slash. Fetohep beheaded him without even turning.
Forty some stood up, forty some died. Fetohep knew he would have taken several cuts, some bad, taken bruising, his armor been damaged, but he stood there, afterwards, and spoke.
“Find a [Healer] for Lanodest’s nose. For the others.”
He did not glance at them, for now he saw the flaw in it all. Lanodest was panting.
“Your Majesty, is that all that skill and training can do?”
He was trying to smile, as if this were some grand lesson, a demonstration of Fetohep’s peerless mastery. He did not expect the wrath in Fetohep’s gaze as the golden flames blazed.
“No. It is not.”
They all looked at him like children waiting for the right answer, and Fetohep pursed his lips to spit…and then caught himself. He glanced around, then placed his sword in the ground, dropped his shield.
“It is the difference between someone who is trying to kill and those who are not. It is the difference between an unblooded soldier and an adventurer. You have no edge to your blades.”
They didn’t understand. Instantly, half the soldiers chorused that they would refine themselves or asked how to sharpen their swords, as if this wasn’t a metaphor. Fetohep regarded them and thought of…
The Horns of Hammerad.
 
——
 
Yes, they were a good example. Each member of the Horns was a seasoned adventurer, a warrior. He had not witnessed most of their exploits firsthand, but Fetohep had tried to invite them to Khelt. They had been too busy. He wasn’t sure where they were. Hraace? Nerrhavia’s Fallen?
Schemes and plans, but as the King of Khelt mused on the problem, he imagined fighting any of them.
He believed he would win, even now. None were past Level 50, thus he had the level-advantage, and capstones were always powerful. He had more experience, but whilst he might bet on besting them, he would never…want to try it in truth.
Each one was able to kill. If he dueled them in earnest, there would never be a moment he let his guard down. That was the difference between Lanodest and Yvlon.
Not muscle. Not speed, not levels. Just the feeling that if he had her on the ropes, if he broke her nose, she would bite off his ear in return. Well, he had no ears anymore, but the point remained.
“They don’t work hard enough. They have no…drive.”
That was the other part. Yes, his soldiers trained. They went three hours in the open sun until they flopped onto their backs, exhausted. Most excellent, all he truly wanted. He believed they’d given it their all, but do you know what he’d taken for granted and realized hadn’t been done?
“Not one. Not a single one went back to the practice courts after that. None of them trained at night.”
He knew Pisces Jealnet practiced with his rapier, a thousand lunges before bed. Erin Solstice had once complained about it. Adventurers might be indolent, but when they prepared, they put in tremendous effort. His soldiers pushed, then went to take a bath and read a book and visit the plays.
They did not act like each move they learned might save their lives, because they did not think they’d risk their lives. Now he saw it.
The King of Khelt rested his chin on his hand. Trying…
 
——
 
He tried to inspire them two days after that. They were shaken after his ‘death battle’. Five had quit. It told him they had realized what he had. Lanodest had his nose under a bandage; it hadn’t been healed. It hurt, but the fact he had stayed and not asked for a potion gave Fetohep hope.
Like Anleth, the king placed his hopes on the [Death Commander].
“I may have been harsh as I spoke to you, Death Commander, but war steals lives, and I would not have a single one of you enter into it unready, both in training or what it means.”
“Is war coming, Your Majesty? The Prophet is surely going to be removed when more [Mercenaries] come, is he not?”
They will not respond. Why? Fetohep spoke tersely.
“War is always a threat for [Soldiers]. But it occurs to me I am more concerned with…form than true battle. Show me how you would fight, Lanodest. Not with mere sword and shield. Take what men you need. Conduct this as a real battle with all your might. Face me.”
He stood with halberd in hand this time, robes upon his body. He waited as Lanodest swallowed and expected the man to call for a squad if he was wise. First, Lanodest geared up. Enchanted armor, sword and shield. Fetohep nodded at the array that would put the man into Gold-rank by magic alone. But Lanodest did not ask for other soldiers. Instead he hesitated, but remembering the battle made him serious, so he pointed at Fetohep.
“By your leave, Your Majesty, I will treat you like the greatest of foes, life-or-death. Simply tell me to stop—”
“Yes. Please, show me your will, Lanodest.”
The [Death Commander] took a breath, and Fetohep saw his eyes focus. Then Lanodest pointed a finger.
“[Skeleton Company, Arise]! [Rattling Charge]! [Summon Skeleton Archer Squad]! [Good Aim]! Loose!”
—And the King of Khelt felt a jolt of shock as skeletons began rising from the ground! They weren’t the palace’s royal skeletons, just—they rose fast. [Swift Animation]? They were already charging with a great rattling roar, wielding rusted arms and weapons, but archers were rising behind Lanodest. Fetohep stared as an arrow was nocked, loosed.
“Your Majesty! Watch out!”
Anleth screamed as Fetohep did nothing. The Revenant saw an arrow shooting towards one eye socket as four skeletons loosed, and the first charging wave drew within feet of him—
He stepped to the side of the arrows, then reached out and caught one he realized might hit a member of the audience behind him. The [King] rotated once, robes awhirl, and swung his halberd.
The wind rose, and Commander Lanodest threw up his arms to shield his face from the dust. Something hit him in the head and clanged off his helmet.
A skeleton’s head. The boney skull, mouth open in shock, hit the ground and shattered. Lanodest peered up, and the lower torsos of the skeletons collapsed. Fetohep spun his halberd, and arrows clattered down as he blocked them.
“I see.”
“[Axe Skeleton Squad]—”
Lanodest’s mouth was dry, and he used another Skill. Fetohep turned as more skeletons rose. Then he jumped straight towards the Death Commander. And he used the one and only Skill Lanodest had ever seen him use in all their practicing.
[Like a Lion, He Leapt].
All the skeleton archers around Lanodest died, and the warrior saw Fetohep swinging his blade. Panicked, Lanodest shouted.
“[Power Strike]! [Deflection Shield]! [Power—]”
The world spun. Something caught Lanodest before his head hit the ground, but he still passed out. When he woke with a jerk, seeing people standing over him and the King of Khelt complimenting him with words, but leaning heavy on that halberd, Lanodest knew it.
The same as Fetohep.
They were two warriors of vastly different eras. Two different kinds.
Then, the King of Khelt despaired again.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest had seen battle no less than sixteen times when Khelt was fighting Medain and the Claiven Earth. He had personally killed eight foes with rings, wand, or in personal combat—the details were unlisted—and contributed materially to Khelt’s forces with his Skills.
He was an asset. A [Death Commander] that any army who tolerated the undead might readily accept. His Skills could empower and raise dead, and it made him a threat, a strategic asset.
But no army would do anything to have Lanodest. He would not be a Mars or Named-rank adventurer who could move a battlefield. He was one of Khelt’s finest.
He could not save Khelt. Nor did Fetohep think he could teach Lanodest. Both of them knew it.
Like the riots, like Khelt’s innocence when it came to insects, they were just too different. The martial edge that Fetohep had hoped to unearth in his people was not there. It was like trying to make pottery from sand, not clay.
Most of the soldiers seemed to regard this as some game, however intense, or personal training. Lanodest, when he woke up, seemed to realize with a few what this meant, but Fetohep tried to be kind.
“Mastery of the kind I seek is not the one and only answer towards the path of a warrior or soldier. You fight well, Lanodest.”
“Just not at the front, Your Majesty. Were you…I’m…I’ll try to be—”
The man couldn’t finish the sentence and look Fetohep in the eye. The King of Khelt inclined his head.
“I was lucky and fortunate to reach the level where I died. Luck, circumstance, all has as much to do with the greatest warriors surviving as their talents.”
“Yet you were a great warrior, weren’t you, sire?”
Now Lanodest was curious, so Fetohep inspected the halberd.
“Was I? In truth, I regard the Herald of the Forest and her ilk as the finer warriors of the day. I never considered myself on par with the King of Destruction’s Seven for my time. It is not that levels were that much higher…perhaps some. I was merely Fetohep of Khelt.”
Highest-level [Warrior] of the Kingdom of Paradise. Mocked for being a fool who wanted to leave his beautiful homeland. Thirsty, thirsty for sights beyond his gentle Queen’s domain. Confident he would live forever and return, someday…
“I met my end in battle, as I believe you know. That tells you enough: I would not call myself superior in any way.”
“B-but Your Majesty, aren’t you high-level?”
Fetohep’s class and level were not open knowledge, but he was tired and nodded.
“I am over Level 50, yes, Lanodest.”
Now, every eye was fixed on him again. Lanodest stuttered.
“L-Level 50? But we have never seen you use your capstone Skill, Your Majesty! Unless it’s always active?”
Fetohep lifted his weary shoulders.
“No. But why would I use it, Lanodest? It is a warrior’s Skill. Useless to a king ruling over peaceful lands. Best kept as a secret in case of assassins.”
None had tried him in six hundred plus years, which had been mildly disappointing. Lanodest hesitated.
“May I see it?”
Fetohep glanced at him, then shook his head.
“It is not something I believe needs to be shown, Lanodest. It is not…I have erred in my training. I believe your class is the model to aspire to.”
Better to have those who could let skeletons fight for them than warriors with no dangerous teeth. He saw Lanodest’s eyes stray downwards and sighed.
“Perhaps it would be enough if I demonstrated a lesser Skill. I do not speak of my class—I am now a [Revenant King], Lanodest. Khelta’s work changed me, and I am that rarity: an undead who has levels. Not one who can level; but still, an undead with an undead’s class. But I have a subclass, another little-spoken rarity, which contains my original. Not that I am capable of levelling, but would you then guess the nature of my class?”
The others glanced around and then guessed.
“[Halberdier], Your Majesty?”
“[Rider], perhaps? That you are known to be good with…”
“[Mercenary]? No, surely not—”
Lanodest was thinking, and Fetohep saw the man glancing at the halberd and Fetohep’s own style of fighting, which could be rough and direct. The man hesitated.
“I wish to guess that it is some twist, Your Majesty. Perhaps…no, you would not be a [Death Commander] or undead-themed class by any chance?”
Fetohep smiled indulgently and twirled the halberd once, knocking the dust from it. He cast around for Anleth; the boy had been here every day for the first week. Where was…?
“No and yes. My class was themed, but it was themed towards Khelt, not the undead. Where else would it lie? That I knew the use of a weapon well enough, that I could ride, did not make me a specialist.”
He grew embarrassed, then, and hesitated, but there was no hope for it. Lanodest was waiting, and even if the man was not…in his eyes, Fetohep saw loyalty. Trust. So he coughed into one fist and turned.
“A ruler was carved from flawed stone, and in this, I suppose it is a lesson to hope for all present. For I was the least fit, and yet I am proudly King of Khelt. Know, then, that I was simply…”
He hesitated, then began to drift forwards. Walking, and the audience eyed each other. A day-servant whispered to a [Soldier].
“Did you hear what he said?”
She got a shake of the head, and Fetohep walked onwards. The audience held their ground, and he thought he’d gotten away with it until he heard pounding footsteps.
“Your Majesty! Please, may I ask your class?”
Dead gods damnit. He turned his face as Lanodest stood there. Fetohep lifted a single hand for the man’s courage and sighed as he walked on to find Anleth.
“As you know me, Lanodest, I am your king of unchanging paradise. But now, it seems, is a time of change. So remember who I was, my loyal subject, my blade in these troubled times. I was Level 53 when I died. The [Relentless, Unyielding, Stubborn Son of Khelt]. A man whose temper led to his death and that of his boon friends when he should have fled the field. No hero. In life, they called me the Badger of Khelt.”
No scorpion, no snake. Fetohep glanced back at the man, waiting for scorn or for a let-down face, and Lanodest just stood there.
“Badger, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep would have grimaced with all his face if he were alive, and he remembered that. He coughed again.
“Yes. Titles being what they are—I think it was some kind that enjoyed honey. I resented it greatly. And just so you know, Lanodest…my Level 50 Skill is much the same. It is far, far from extraordinary to behold, hence why I have never used it. It is, in fact, four rather mundane-sounding Skills. My friends laughed for two days and nights straight when I hit Level 50.”
He walked on, too afraid to look behind himself again. That was the man who Khelt needed. No Emrist, no His-Xe. Just a man. Badger of Khelt.
But surely, in this kingdom of his, there was one who would rise. Surely…the King of Khelt went to find Anleth as someone came to call upon him:
The Arbiter Queen of Jecrass.
 
——
 
Anleth avoided Fetohep of Khelt for an entire week such that they were in their third week of visiting Khelt and he was hoping to return home, but his parents wouldn’t hear of it.
“Anleth, why would you want to return home, so close to the border now? His Majesty is so generous!”
Not that they hung out with him long. They felt it took his time, but Fetohep kept popping by their dinners. He wanted Anleth, though he could not say it.
So the boy stuck to his parents and snuck to the city because he could not meet his king. For a week, he evaded Fetohep because…
Because…
Because he had put down the sword when his hands hurt. He hadn’t liked seeing all the blood and cries of pain when Fetohep sparred, and Anleth’s hands grew clammy when he thought of fighting anyone with the sword. He didn’t want to, and he believed His Majesty would be angry for him failing.
When Fetohep finally caught Anleth on the third week, the boy realized that was not true. He was climbing a garden gate—not really to keep intruders in or out because it was the royal palace—and slipping when someone caught him.
“Oh, thank y—”
“Not at all, Anleth. Pray tell me, where do you go on your days off?”
Fetohep of Khelt was rather fast when he wanted to be, and as a former warrior—Anleth stuttered.
“I, um, Your Majesty! I’m sorry I couldn’t train with the blade, but I—just out! I wouldn’t wish to disturb you.”
“Not at all. I have some time for guests such as you, Anleth. It would please me if I could but see your life.”
The boy hesitated, prevaricating.
“I’d love to, Your Majesty! But you might rip your robes if you were to climb, and it’s such a long walk around the g—”
Fetohep jumped and landed lightly on the top of the garden walls. Anleth swallowed his tongue, and the King of Khelt smiled.
“Shall we?”
 
——
 
A boy with no idea what to show his [King] and a king with great expectations walked through Khelt. One tried to escape the other, and it was not hard…
Fetohep’s subjects adored him. Or, they had. Even if today they had lots of issues they wanted to bring up to him, that just meant the usual crowds were three times as large, and Anleth could wiggle away in the press of bodies. No one crushed him, but he’d hurry down one street, and then Fetohep would find him. Sometimes by literally jumping onto a roof from the street, walking across it, and landing in an adjourning street.
He did not run, for it was unseemly and alarming for a [King] to run, but he moved with such erratic power with his ability to leap and somehow sense Anleth that it would have been a merry chase if he were not so terrifying.
Truly, then, he was well-fitting of his class, [Stubborn Son], but Anleth did not know that. What he did know was that all the other children in the city suddenly found him the most captivating, interesting person ever.
“Anleth! Why does His Majesty want you?”
“I don’t know!”
The boy wailed as he ran with other children he had befriended. Khelt could be harsh—socially—for a newcomer. You could be horribly bullied or insulted if you were lacking in class in the capital, or so he’d heard.
But the other children had heard he’d been made a [Slave] of Roshal temporarily, and they were so horrified by his story and awestruck by him being in the palace they only half-bullied him, which was well.
Anleth had dark skin and black hair and naturally black fingernails, some magical quirk of heritage like many had. It meant there were only traces of lighter color in his nails, and his sister had grown up using him like a little doll for painting nails. These days, he only did little triangles or small symbols on his fingertips to hide the white patches.
The other street kids were far more impressive. There was Duskie the Garuda, who was a Street Runner with dispensation to go to other cities because he could fly and who knew many famous people; with his grey-white plumage he was shockingly uncolored, which he claimed—accurately—made him stand out in Khelt’s colorful crowd.
Mrar was a Stitch-girl [Secret Broker] with an actual class, who claimed to have traded with even Wistram and ran in gossip circles, hair all twisted and wild and her secrets bound in little packets in the green braids.
Cregg was a Gnoll from Izril whose parents had moved here. He knew how to hunt and had seen monsters and was thus the most popular, and his fur was as white as you got without being a Doombearer, but marked by black patches as if he were the mountains themselves, hence the name.
And there were others, like Hiblup, the part-Goldfish Drowned Boy, or Mascarre and her gang. They all had different, exciting lives in the city, usually, and it was rare for more than his friends to seek him out. Right now, they were all here running with him.
“Should we turn him in, d’you think?”
Hiblup commented, and Mascarre, a devout loyalist, scowled.
“Can’t. His Majesty just watches Anleth. We already sold him out twice! What does he want, Anleth?”
“I don’t know! I only know I let him down when I didn’t practice sword training!”
Mrar shouted as the others gaped at him with frank disbelief.
“You did what? You were in the palace, and he’s teaching [Soldiers], everyone knows! And you didn’t train? What’s wrong with you?”
Half of the other kids agreed as they pounded down Singsong way—it had a real name, but the paving stones emitted sounds when you stepped on them. Adults hated living here, but the kids always took it as a hangout. The Garuda skimmed next to the others, frowning.
“He’s doing that instead of making sure we don’t have bugs. And there’s a rumor there’s some rabble-rousing foreigner in the north, and no one’s happy.”
“His Majesty knows what he’s doing!”
Another child defended him, and Mrar sniffed.
“My fathers say he’s neglecting his duties.”
“Your fathers rioted! Disgraceful!”
Mascarre went to shove Mrar, showing how violent she was, and Anleth cried out.
“I don’t know what he wants! I just want to go home.”
That was his secret weapon. Tears. For as everyone knew in Koirezune and any city, you could play, even be rough as you wanted, but tears? No, an official would call you out and speak to you, or a skeleton would rise to see if you were well. He’d burst into them on the first day when they teased him too much for being a coward, not knowing about the truth of Roshal’s attack.
Now, the other children eyed each other and came to a swift decision. Cregg threw a paw over Anleth’s shoulders.
“If His Majesty wants to follow, just act like you normally do, Anleth. Where to?”
There was only one place to go, if it were Anleth. He pointed, and they ran, calling out as this became a great game.
“Oh no! His Majesty jumped the houses! How did he do that?”
Slow song notes sounded as he walked towards them, and Anleth ran, chest burning, as he came to the only place he knew, regardless of cities.
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina of Jecrass expected more of a commotion around her when she entered Khelt, but she was almost relieved not to be swarmed by admirers. She’d had them from here to Khelt’s borders, but the kingdom was—off.
“Something is wrong.”
She murmured to her people as she rode into the city, and she knew it in her marrow. First the Jaws, then this Prophet? Fetohep kept insisting all was well and redirecting to her country and father, and while those were problems…
He had not been able to gainsay her entry into Khelt, for he had offered it once, and he had no good excuse for why he was busy. So, she had come, but everywhere Jecaina looked, there were discrepancies.
One of her servants coughed as she rode into the city.
“Has it always been this…dusty, Your Majesty?”
Now that Jecaina noticed…yes, there was a bit of dust marring the pristine streets. She swatted at some flies that had followed her all the way into the city and then stared at the bugs.
Bugs in paradise? The citizens did not look as happy and carefree as usual. In fact, they seemed sullen, upset, and when she dismounted, one of her [Bodyguards] let out such a shout that everyone turned to regard him.
The man had stood on a piece of broken pottery that had gone straight through his leather boots by chance. Shamefaced, he plucked the piece of pottery out, but an official who’d come to meet them was horrified.
“Such a danger on our streets? Your Majesty, excuse us a thousand times! It was due to the unruly citizens from a night ago.”
He glared about at other citizens, who glared back, and Jecaina’s brows lifted higher.
“I have never heard of Khelt’s people being less than utterly content, Official Jordel.”
The man refused to meet her eyes.
“Yes, well, with New Jecrass and so much occurring, Khelt is somewhat—stretched. In time, it will be well.”
“In time? It is dire now, and I have heard at least two other cities are in outrage, just as we are! I thought it was only the capital, but I have written letters to friends and found they are all angry, Jordel! When will His Majesty fix this?”
“The Arbiter Queen is expected at the palace. Excuse me, citizens—”
The man pressed his lips shut and refused to answer, and Jecaina’s instincts prickled worse. Something was very, very wrong. And she figured it out before anyone else did. Perhaps…before even Kheltians did.
“Excuse me, Jordel. Where…are all the skeletons?”
He turned to look at her, and so did the citizen he’d been arguing with, who’d fetched a broom to check for more pottery shards. To Jecaina, it was obvious.
She had visited Khelt before, and there were skeletons everywhere. Hand-carting goods from place to place, escorting someone who needed a hand, sweeping, cleaning, repairing—
She didn’t see more than two on the street, slowly, slowly carrying some goods to an impatient [Shopkeeper] tapping his foot. And she saw a damaged storefront, glass broken in. The glass was cleared, but where was the skeleton team replacing it? Where was the instant paint for a chipped front of a cart?
It was as if her words were magic, because Jordel’s head turned, and she saw his eyes grow round. The citizen sweeping dropped the broom with a clatter.
“I haven’t—I didn’t notice—I haven’t seen one for—skeletons, arise! I need help!”
He called out, and everyone turned to the man, but at the Kheltian’s words…nothing happened. After two minutes of waiting, a single skeleton eventually stepped out from a side-street, glancing around.
It looked towards the citizen and pointed at him as if to say, ‘are you the guy?’ Then it walked over and stood there, and the citizen stared at it. Had it gotten lost on the way here?
The alarm on every person’s face was turning rapidly into something greater. Jecaina bit her lip and was about to say something placating when the most curious thing happened. The citizen began crying out.
“Jordel! This is—this is—you see this? This is madness. What is this?”
He was white-faced, and the official spoke through trembling lips.
“I don’t know. That’s wrong. That’s clearly—”
“You don’t deny it?”
Jordel shook his head.
“Why would I? This is beyond insanity. Now I see it—does His Majesty know? Th-this is calamitous! We must report to him!”
“Surely he knows. Is that…do [Mages] know? We must find someone! Who—”
“The Mage’s Guild? Your Majesty, pardons, but—”
They were treating this like a ten billion alarm bell [Dangersense], and well they might. So were four other citizens who came over and began demanding the skeleton do things. When it was slow—they were wide-eyed. Fearful, and they clearly placed this matter above Jecaina herself.
All normal, correct? Yes. But what was strange was that no less than a dozen paces ahead of her, Jecaina saw a man sitting at a café table sipping some coffee and grimacing at a fly that had flown towards him. He pushed his coffee cup back as it landed on the lip of the cup and continued reading a newspaper imported from overseas.
He was not so focused on the newspaper he was blind to the world. In fact, he glanced at her, clearly intrigued, and began to eye her horses, wondering who she was. But he didn’t react to the raised voices around Jecaina.
As if he didn’t hear them. Nor did the other people in the restaurant or down the street. It was as if they stood in a localized [Silence] spell, Jecaina realized. Or a…
Pot.
Now, why would she think that? She pushed out her hands and aura experimentally and felt like something was…vibrating. She pushed harder, frowning, and there was a cracking feeling—she halted.
What in the world? Before she could make sense of it, someone called out.
“You, sir! Are you deaf? Didn’t you see that?”
The man with the newspaper jumped. He turned around.
“Who, me?”
“Yes, you! Did you not—look at this!”
Instantly, newspaper-man got up with a frown and walked over to the skeleton. When he heard what was going on, he grayed, and he was part of the hubbub. But the waitress didn’t notice…
“Your Majesty, what is this?”
Unsettled, one of her servants whispered to the Arbiter Queen, and she felt a prickle in her stomach.
“I don’t know. We go to the palace for King Fetohep. At once.”
 
——
 
As luck would have it, they found a commotion and saw the King of Khelt leaping a building as they were riding towards the palace. The sight of him pursuing a child as he spoke to his subjects, reassuring, calm, made Jecaina almost feel all was well. But when he froze up and his eye-flames diminished on seeing her, she knew.
“Your Majesty, Fetohep! Greetings, I wished to tender my compliments to Jecrass’ guardian and savior myself.”
She smiled as she bowed, and the crowd was distracted by her. But King Fetohep just stared at her and nodded slowly.
“Jecaina. Queen Jecaina, my apologies. You are well, I trust? Yes, as Jecrass’ protector…all is well in Jecrass, I hope?”
“Well as it can be more than a year into a war we need not continue with a King of Duels who shall not quit wasting his subject’s lives and loyalty.”
She gritted her teeth on more, then ducked her head.
“Well enough. I come, today, merely to beg your indulgence, King Fetohep. And I bring greetings on behalf of the Quarass, who bade me speak to you.”
“Ah. She has been quite chatty of late. I suppose you shall pass by her on the way back.”
His good mood seemed to become somber and withdrawn in a moment. Fetohep tapped one foot, then his chest rose. And fell. And rose…and she stared at him until he caught himself.
Was he…breathing? He spoke distractedly.
“I am pursuing a child this morning, Arbiter Queen. Anleth, a boy. It is a matter of jest, but some seriousness. I wish to see his hobbies. A pursuit of a [King]. What if you were to settle within the palace? I shall be there shortly. Yes, and Pewerthe may be able to speak with you.”
He reached for a speaking stone, and Jecaina forestalled him with a smile.
“I should be delighted to accompany you, if I may, Fetohep.”
There was nothing he could say to that but to accede. And so they walked, chasing a boy. A silly, trivial thing given what Jecaina began to suspect, but she realized…this was at the heart of the King of Khelt, whom she loved for all his faults.
The mountain trembled, but he followed a pebble, for he had to know the fate of the pebble. To him, it and the mountain were one and the same. He followed Anleth for hope.
What he found was…
Mrsha.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin squatted on the ground, using the power of the [World’s Eye Theatre] to project herself into Eternal Khelt. It didn’t work in the palace, which was now warded unless Fetohep allowed her entry, but she had been here of late.
Looking around. A bit concerned.
Well, lots of people were ‘a bit concerned’. Like Lyonette, who kept coming over and being shooed away by Mrsha and Nanette.
“Mrsha, sweetie? I thought you were scouting about—okay, okay. I’m going. Have fun with your game! Would you like some cookies and milk as a snack?”
Mrsha turned bright red under her fur as all the kids stared at her, but she waved away her mother after signing that yes, perhaps some refreshments would be welcome. But in truth, this was normal.
Not glowing, semi-transparent Gnoll children, but adults getting in the way of real stuff. Which was, for the kids…
“Four and four! Eight and doubles, beat that!”
Duskie crowed as they gathered around a circle, and Mrsha poked Mrar, who dutifully rolled for her. The Gnoll girl’s face fell, and she covered her eyes as she got a ‘one’ and ‘three’.
They were dicing. King Fetohep stared, mouth slightly open, as Queen Jecaina blinked at Mrsha du Marquin and the street, and Nanette pulled off her beanie.
“Argh! This isn’t fair! I’ve never seen dice like these before! How do we know they’re good?”
The Kheltian children smirked at her as Anleth scooped the dice up and rattled them in a cup. He tossed them before smiling at Nanette.
“They’re mine, and if you doubt the game, don’t play.”
“What’re they called again? I want some.”
Nanette peered at the dice as they flashed over the ground, and they rolled and rolled, but never seemed to come up on the same side as before. They were, in fact…
“Let’s switch to thousand-sided dice! You can get hundred-sided ones carved, but anything over that is magic. Anleth also does cards.”
Mrsha held up her notecards, face determined, as Ser Dalimont handed her some milk and cookies.
I can do cards. Deal me in!
“You’re already down one secret. And you can’t pay us in favors or anything else. Whaddya got?”
Mrar was skeptical, but Mrsha air-nudged Cregg.
Cregg’s got me, right, fur-brother?
He snorted a booger out his nose.
“I don’t got you at all, sister. You’d better make it worth my while!”
He rolled a die, and it promptly turned red, began glowing, and everyone oohed.
“He got a one! Run for it!”
After the miniature flashbang and applause—it was a one-in-thousand chance after all—Cregg wiped his nose, and Mrsha held up a card.
I’ll get you Lehra Ruinstrider or Gireulashia Ekhtouch’s autograph. I’ll have to send it slow, but I’ve got both.
“Deal. I’ll pay for her.”
They began anteing in, and Mrar held Mrsha’s cards for her as Anleth grinned, eyes alight.
“Now, who wants to bet anything valuable? Secrets or coins or—”
It was only at this point that they realized they had an audience. All the kids’ heads poked up from under the bridge where they were playing by a running river.
Hiding from sight and other people in the oldest fashion of gamblers. True, it was still Khelt, so there wasn’t anything nasty there. There was a bit of mold that everyone stayed away from, and Mrar had killed some spiders and been so upset they’d nearly not come to play, but they’d thought no one would be able to find them.
When they saw two rulers and a lot of Kheltians staring at them, the children panicked.
“Oh no, the officials are going to be all over us! And His Majesty! Run!”
Half pelted for it, but Mrsha leapt up warily with Nanette. Both bowed, and Fetohep stood there as Anleth turned red.
“Gambling?”
It was not illegal to gamble in Khelt, but it was frowned upon, and there were strict rules about gambling for sums or other things. Because gambling could lead rapidly to addiction and debts that could not be paid. In practice, it was very rare because it was so regulated as to take out all the truly nefarious qualities—and Khelt was paradise, so the incentives were largely gone.
However, gambling and children had never come up on Fetohep’s radar, and Anleth was…well.
He was a [Rook’s Gambler]. Not just a [Child Gambler], but someone who played with amateurs. He blushed as Fetohep gazed at him.
“Your Majesty, I didn’t wish to say what I was good at. I—it’s just for fun.”
“You play this game often, Anleth?”
The boy was, in fact, known in his city as the best gambler among adults and children alike, at least by a certain underground. For Khelt, he was daring, exciting, and the Arbiter Queen hid a smile and then peered at Mrsha. The girl was smiling, but as she nibbled on a cookie, her eyes darted to the mold where water met the embankment. And she met Jecaina’s eyes and felt it too.
“It is not illegal to gamble, Anleth. I merely wished to know what you did. That you did not tell me—it is well. Please tell your friends I am not wrothful.”
Fetohep was assuring Anleth, and when he glanced at Mrsha, he did seem like his normal self.
“Wretched water rat, why hast thou trespassed in my domain?”
His eyes twinkled, and Mrsha grinned back, then hesitated.
Hey, Fetohep, everything’s good here. I, um, just was checking in. Is everything good? I heard you had a weird Pawn-type dude problem.
Fetohep paused a moment before replying steadily.
“I do not know of this ‘dude’ of which you speak, Mrsha, but I shall field your questions after my affairs with Queen Jecaina are concluded. Anleth, now that your secret has been revealed, would you care to meet the Arbiter Queen?”
The boy would very much, and he bowed to Jecaina, who shook his hand and exclaimed over his dice. Fetohep was glancing at Lyonette, who flitted out of view, and his voice rose for his subjects’, Jecaina’s, Mrsha’s, everyone’s benefit.
“I…realize there has been change of late. But I shall assure all and sundry that Khelt is well. It is merely my passing fixation, my wont to know Anleth’s potential. For is not any son of Khelt one who may one day rule?”
Anleth glanced up in shock. He didn’t want that! Fetohep lifted a hand.
“Ah, I see concern in your eyes, Anleth. This is mere hyperbole. But you have such potential! Many of Khelt are your seniors, and they…have fine hobbies and qualities which make our paradise more enjoyable. But you? If not swordsmanship, perhaps magic? Or have you seen Farmer Colovt’s fields. Farming is hardly glamorous, but there are countless things which may strike a passion in one.”
Smithing, weaving, creation of works of art, or mechanical and magical genius like the House of El. Archery, every field of magic…but the boy shyly indicated his magical dice.
“I do love gambling, Your Majesty. I’ll wager I could surprise even you with it.”
Jecaina hid a smile, for that was a [Gambler]’s madness, but Fetohep glanced at the dice, then spun.
“Yes, and a pleasing diversion it would be, and your parents also—astound me with their insights into the most enjoyable elements of culture. But surely, thou would dabble in other fields? What did you think of my gardens, for instance? Queen Xierca’s blooms which were sadly reinstated in the main display?”
“Which blooms, Your Majesty?”
This time, the King of Khelt hesitated.
“…The ones that weep? And scream? And let out hideous amounts of smelly nectar?”
Nanette made a face, but Mrsha gasped.
Are those the famous Sireen Lilies, the most horrible things ever? You told me about them, and a [Druid] friend said they’re nasty! Can I see?
The Gnoll girl was a [Druid], after all. Fetohep nodded at Mrsha, and Anleth scratched behind an ear, embarrassed.
“I don’t know plants well, Your Majesty.”
Nor did he want to muck around in dirt. Fetohep thought, and his eyes flicked to Mrsha.
“Then, perhaps you would care for the company of other children, I see. I do take it that you have met Mrsha du Marquin. Perhaps a penpal system may be instituted. If she must harass my citizens, let it at least be with somewhat legible handwriting and proper diction.”
Mrsha beamed and shyly waved at Anleth, who had awesome fingernails, and the boy grinned back.
“That I could do, Your Majesty.”
“Excellent, then a [Message] scroll shall be sent to—”
“She can come to g—visit! It’s better than writing.”
Anleth hated his letters, though he didn’t mind reading Mrsha’s writings. Fetohep stopped.
“I see. This is more convenient. But perhaps you…Mrsha, perhaps you would one day furnish Anleth with stories of your inn. Or render unto him a vision of the flames. The Knights of Solstice are the most popular figures in Izril, are they not?”
Mrsha hesitated, and now she was peering at Fetohep, and so was Nanette, who nudged Mrsha slightly. She wrote something on Mrsha’s card, and the Gnoll girl stared at it, then gave Fetohep a huge smile. Queen Jecaina peered at the card as Mrsha held it up for all to see.
Absolutely, buddy! I’d love to tell Anleth about home! Though between you and me, the Knights of Solstice are only ‘pretty popular’. It’s still adventurers and maybe the Players who are the most popular. Good thing, too, because I think Normen—he’s the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice, Anleth, would panic if he got more famous than that. Do you know him?
Perhaps only Jecaina honed in on a single word that did not fit the Gnollish girl’s elegant penmanship. Fetohep didn’t notice, but his chest rose and fell as Anleth instantly responded.
“Of course I know him! It’s very interesting.”
They waited, but that was all. Fetohep murmured after a moment.
“Have you beheld his flames, Anleth?”
“Flames? Oh, yes, Your Majesty.”
“They are quite beautiful, are they not? Magic of emotion set to fire, the likes of which are dreamt of nowhere but imagination.”
“And Eternal Khelt!”
“Ye—and Eternal Khelt?”
The boy nodded cheerfully, and he puffed out his chest, for this he knew.
“They are beautiful beyond compare and almost fit for Eternal Khelt! But only just, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep’s head bowed.
“Ah. So they do not inspire you to become a [Knight] or to seek out the truth of that emotion?”
Anleth shook his head, bemused and amused. Fetohep was just staring at the boy and, Jecaina realized, Mrsha.
“You…truly do love gambling. A vice. And I trust you have picked up a sword and swung it. I beheld that. You did not try gardening or—but children are fickle. Most surely try magic, but it holds less magic for you than the cast of dice. Magic itself. Magical flame does not glitter as much as my Eternal Paradise which is well, but you wish only to rest upon it and gamble. Just as your parents review and organize lists of food for dieting.”
His voice was rising. Jecaina turned to Fetohep, and Mrsha held up a card.
Fetohep, I think gambling’s good in moderation. Ever met Viecel?
She smiled, but Fetohep went on, a monotone as Nanette nudged Mrsha again. She had rediscovered the eyes of a [Witch], and what she saw in Fetohep was bubbling up, growing by the second.
“This is not…you are allowed to, of course. But if it were needed, if you were to choose—gambling? I have made great war on Medain, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and even the Drake Cities. Tell me, what did you think of those moments?”
Anleth didn’t know why, but he was getting frightened again. He took a step back as the children, the Queen, the citizens gazed at Fetohep.
“I…I was happy, Your Majesty. Proud and excited.”
Fetohep swung his head towards Anleth, then turned to his people.
“Yet it did not stir within you the desire to take up arms or change. Not you nor any of you? Not for the passing of an age?”
No one. He glanced around, then he spun again.
“Just but one thing. One spark of it, one ember to burn and give you a class and meaning that even paradise cannot. Surely, Anleth, there is something.”
The boy peered up at him blankly.
“Gambling, Your Majesty. Do you want to play?”
The King of Khelt stared down at the dice, and the boy’s eyes shone with the hope that he could dice with a king, even if only to say it. King Fetohep’s voice rose.
“Gambling. Gambling. A vice and a game when I have asked—no. No, this is the people I created. My kingdom, my beautiful—and it is worthy and worth it. Every second of it.”
Now he was spinning, spinning like a top, and they were all stepping back except for Jecaina.
“Fetohep? Your Majesty?”
The King of Khelt was rasping now, chest rising and falling.
“As long as it could remain and continue, it is well. As long as that. But the moons could split, the waters rise, and it would just be thus, wouldn’t it? A game. Gambling. Is there nothing else, Anleth? Nothing? Anleth?”
—The King of Khelt only realized he was shouting at the boy when Jecaina barred his way, along with Mrsha. He looked down, and the boy was hunched on the ground, shivering like a child in a storm of snow, not crying, but staring down at his feet.
Then, and only then, Fetohep caught himself, and the shame that washed over him was so visible that he sank to his knees. His people, another monarch—Mrsha—he knelt there.
“Anleth?”
“I am sorry, Your Majesty.”
“No. I am sorry, Anleth. Forgive me. I have been…”
Fetohep of Khelt hesitated, but the boy’s eyes were filled with tears, and the only thing he could offer to salve this wound he had created—he, the defender of his people—was honesty.
“…Stressed. I am unworthier than Khelt’s most pitiful insect to take it out upon a child.”
A single admonition from their infallible king. Anleth peeked up, and relief spread over his face, though the hurt was there, and Fetohep rose and tried to make it all well. But he felt it, then. As if it had run through all things.
A crack…like breaking pottery.
 
——
 
As the month passed, many things happened in Khelt. The protests returned until they were almost nightly, and the people learned how to protest. Kheltians came from the north, fleeing the mad Prophet, and the man was in the cities.
“Some Kheltians are even listening to him. He’s building something, Your Majesty. We cannot uproot him.”
That was Alked’s terse report, and apparently, Herdmistress Geraeri had ridden north herself, taken a look at the People of God, and refused to sally on his camps. But they had halted.
 
——
 
Chieftain Lessha of the Satest Fletching tribe leaned on a recurve bow, but she didn’t draw an arrow. She was so relaxed that the [Battle Cleric] and her followers hesitated.
“So you bar our path, and you are citizens of Khelt, but you do not wish violence? You come armed for it.”
“So do you, friends.”
Six Gnolls versus thirty-some faithful. Lessha spoke, voice clear and carrying.
“We know your people have clashed with ours. We are Satest Fletching, a tribe of Izril. Do you know us?”
The [Battle Cleric] lowered a shawl she’d been wearing over her face. It glittered like gold, and she bowed her head awkwardly.
“I am Jilthread Hemp. Formerly of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Of course we know of you; how could one not? The Meeting of Tribes? We witnessed the treachery of Drakes.”
“It is good you see it that way. Then you know we are recent citizens of Khelt.”
The People of God murmured, and Jilthread nodded slowly, thinking out loud.
“Yes, I see it now. So your sins are not that of Khelt. We would not wish harm against you either, especially as you have introduced yourselves. Forgive us. There is an archer who has shot many arrows at us. Our wounds heal, but the pain will be returned to him in time.”
Lessha glanced around, brows raised.
“I would not wish to injure any of you. I admire Stitch-folk of all kinds from this land, who are a fascination to me—I knew none on Izril. We merely wished to stop you here.”
“From advancing. Did the King of Khelt send you?”
Jilthread moved closer, lowering the spear she held. Her veil, and the spear, seemed to be a strange gold that did not fit her humble attire. Lessha handed her bow to one of the other Gnolls and walked over.
“No, he did not. But I felt it best, yes? To avoid more unrest. I have heard you take things from Kheltians, even homes.”
“We merely answer them for the deaths of our people. Your—no, Khelt’s [King] rained down death on us. Thousands died. Children, the innocent—”
Lessha glanced towards the capital, and she bowed her head.
“This we did not know, no. Will you tell us?”
Jilthread nodded instantly.
“Of course, that you may know the truth and the Word. Come, please, let us stop and break bread. You who are not part of this kingdom may be redeemed, and the hour is soon coming when the Prophet’s sacrament be built.”
Lessha’s ears perked up, and she gestured with a welcoming smile.
“We have brought food just for that purpose. But there is one thing you are slightly wrong in, so I will correct you, yes, Jilthread? Fetohep is my king. For I took him as one when my tribe joined his. So it is our kingdom, and we its people. If you would like to rob us, well, this is my mother’s bow, but I do not wish to fight you.”
She nodded at the bow as a Gnoll brought provisions, and Jilthread hesitated.
“I would not—rob—you, Lessha Satest Fletching. It is only what we do to those who have too much wealth. Not to keep, either! The People of God take it and use it for other things. Clothes, food, supplies…”
“Mm. Some may call that theft, but blood has been shed. There are little niceties between those who fight. I merely stand here because Khelt’s people have been kind to me. I would see you turn back.”
Jilthread hesitated again, but Lessha was already sitting, breaking open some actual bread to add in food. The People of God eyed the food, which was richer and more varied than their plain manna, and Jilthread’s stomach rumbled loudly. She coughed and flushed.
“If you would join us—you would be saved. Let me first tell you of what power I serve, and then you may decide, Lessha.”
“Mm. Yes, I would like to hear it. But if not, will you take my bow or rob us?”
“We will not—we just wish to go past you.”
“And if we refuse to move?”
“…Then we would go around you. Our war is not with you, and I am not blind as some to either the world or the innocent.”
Jilthread glanced at Lessha challengingly. The Gnoll woman smiled and then reached out. She hugged Jilthread with one arm and didn’t let go. The Hemp woman blinked.
“What are you doing?”
“Making it very hard for you to keep going, yes? It seems to me that this is the best way. Let us sit, Jilthread, and be reasonable. And pour a drink.”
“I am on a mission to—I will not be swayed, Chieftain.”
Jilthread tried to get up, but Lessha grinned, and more Gnolls were coming forwards to sit. And it was hard to attack someone sitting if you had what people called a conscience.
“Ah, but you must talk to me first. Tell me your story, Jilthread, and I will take it to my people. It is better delivered, I think, than when one is frightened.”
The Hemp woman hesitated, then the [Battle Cleric] stopped protesting and sat, head bowed.
“…Yes. It is better heard that way. I did not wish to come with sword and gospel in hand. But…”
Her eyes were teary when she glanced up and pointed a finger towards Koirezune.
“…He turned so many of us to ash. So he is either god or monster, and I choose to believe god is loving.”
Lessha sat with a sigh, nodded, and knew other Gnolls were doing the same. She hoped it kept this stalemate and the Prophet from advancing. But she also listened and judged.
“I say to you, Jilthread, sit with me. For beyond me lies Centaurs, and they are quicker to anger. Is there a chance this may come to pass without further strife?”
The woman sniffed and eyed Lessha.
“The Prophet has been attacked six times and our people struck by arrows. No. Judgement is coming, but it need only be for him. The sacrament has been built out of precious metals and stone, just as it was ordained, and the faith gathers in it day by day, drop by drop. Let that be justice. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth…”
The Gnoll’s fur rose, but she forced herself to sit and listen as they prayed.
 
——
 
Stopped. For a moment. But the bugs were multiplying, and the other nations—no, everyone was noticing.
Trey Atwood came to call in Khelt. And Jecaina and Mrsha, and they all asked variants of the same thing.
 
——
 
The [Chaos Schemer] walked through Khelt, and every step he took was unsettled, eyes wide, as if he were the young man who had emerged from A’ctelios Salash, rattled to his core.
No. Those days had changed him from boy to man, and he had continued to change. Yet he was unsettled as Fetohep had ever known him, and when the [King] rose with a smile, Trey’s shadowed expression made Fetohep hesitate.
“I have to tell His Majesty what I see, Fetohep. What is…is it Roshal? The Blighted Kingdom?”
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina sat at a table laden with a feast, but only for her. She picked at her meal, though, and did not answer his questions. Fetohep spoke, alternating between grandfatherly king and gossiping sage.
“Ah, well, if you care not for discussions of Jecrass at this moment, then what about Pisces Jealnet? I had heard tell of a clandestine rendezvous between the two of you, but that is purely rumor. Did he impress you?”
“He did, but we didn’t have as much time as I wished.”
She murmured, flushing briefly, and Fetohep nodded.
“I had hoped he would visit, but perhaps he shall yet in time. Adventurers go where they will. Did you—truly find any affection for him?”
She flushed, but he was pressing, like an overeager opponent in chess, determined to keep it on her side of things, and Jecaina glanced up.
“Perhaps. Certainly enough to try.”
Fetohep sat back.
“Alas, then. One might have hoped for a moment to test such things. Even if it were purely carnal, but such relations take days; a luxury neither of you had.”
“Well, not a one-night stand.”
“True, but a night would have taken most of his short visit to you.”
For a second, that jerked her out of her pondering. Jecaina narrowed her eyes at Fetohep.
“A—how long do you think it’s supposed to be, Fetohep?”
He hesitated. It had been six hundred years, after all.
“…Half a night, then. Hours, one expects. I do not, personally, recall the passage of time…yes, hours.”
She smiled at him, fondly, as he tried to benchmark some rather embarrassing memories now that he saw less point in than he had at the time, and then Jecaina pushed her plate back.
“Fetohep, what is wrong with Khelt? If it is within my power, I shall help.”
And he froze. Froze, with indecision, and said—
 
——
 
—To the [Princess] who sat there, elegant, composed, aged—
Lyonette du Marquin. She had minced a few more words than Jecaina, but she was still straightforwards. She smiled, no longer a child or even a young woman, but someone who had taken on her own burdens. And she spoke to him as if she wore a crown in truth.
“Your Majesty? Is there anything we might do at The Wandering Inn to aid you? You have been such an inspiration to my daughter and a ceaseless ally to, well, everyone. If we may humbly aid you, please, let us know.”
It was well said. It was politely and deftly delivered, and yet the [King] snapped. For he had heard Trey say it, then Jecaina, and the Quarass in her way, and it was roiling in him. It had been growing like a tempest throughout this month, and so his response was ungauged, again, and made him ashamed, but it spat forth from his belly like Dragonfire itself.
“What could you do, Lyonette du Marquin?”
She paused, sipping from a cup of cocoa.
“I beg your pardon, King Fetohep?”
He sat forwards on his throne, golden eyes glowing.
“What could you do? Say there is some—issue in Khelt.”
His eyes darted to a little moth crawling up one curtain. It died, and his gaze swung back to Lyonette. She flinched only slightly, then straightened her back, and the undead king whispered.
“What aid would The Wandering Inn be to me? Have you an army to send me? Could you even but reach me if I begged for it? If the sky were to fall tomorrow, who would catch it? Ishkr? Better to prevail upon your allies, like Saliss of Lights or Grimalkin the Sinew Magus. No, there is nothing you can do for Khelt. I have known this. Khelt does not give out its riches in expectation of reward. It never has, for it has no equal. I have paid every cost, and when the debt comes to be paid, there will only be Khelt.”
He didn’t realize he was using his aura until he felt her push it back and caught himself. Slowly, Fetohep sat. He was losing control. The [Princess]’ head slowly inclined. But her eyes flashed.
“I realize we are not capable in many ways, but I consider myself an ally of yours, Your Majesty. It may be worth little, in your eyes, but know that I, and all those in the inn, consider it an obligation of honor.”
“It is well said, Lyonette du Marquin. And know that I, too, entered into every act of my accord. But truly…have you some limitless army?”
“We have gold…”
He laughed hollowly.
“The one resource I do not lack. Have you a way to contact Erin—no. Unless you have the means to send her to Khelt, there is no point.”
None at all. He was angry at her. Angry at the inn, but he had done it all of his own volition. It was just that he had not anticipated the costs. He had expected great ones for some deeds, but not…this. Lyonette sat there.
“If there is anything…”
“Unless you can best faith, no. Do you even know what that is?”
She shook her head, eyes alarmed.
“We ran into a being of powerful faith in the…palace. And I know more than most because of my past relationship with Pawn, but I—”
“Wait. You and the Antinium?”
Fetohep held up a hand and sat up, and Lyonette grew extremely discombobulated. She managed an explanation, and Fetohep stared at her. Then he dismissed her, politely as he was able.
She could not send armies. Even if she sent the Order of Solstice, and they would come, it was six [Knights] versus thousands.
But perhaps…Fetohep demanded an update from a ship at sea. He plotted its course along a map, and tried to calculate how much time remained given the uncertain state of the sea travel, and then the subsequent journey they would need to take over land…
Perhaps. But then he clutched at his stomach, where something was gnawing at it. He could not feel pain. He walked towards the windows and spoke.
“Call Adventurer Frieke. Summon Pewerthe. She is in her wretched pottery shop making pots. I need her. Summon Colovt. Summon…”
He stood there, listing names until his voice had no more to name. And it did not fix a thing.
 
——
 
Then a month had passed since the Prophet invaded Khelt. And the King of Khelt sat there and felt sand on his skin. He gazed at his withered flesh and now knew where the [Mercenaries] were.
They were coming. Moving across Chandrar. How many? All of them. So many major companies. But here was the thing: he had not paid a single one of them.
He did not like the conclusion he came to. Pewerthe told him that her sources had picked up on the unrest in Khelt, but that was not how Fetohep felt the walls closing in. It was silly, but it was just…
High King Perric of Medain.
The royal weathervane of the High King liked to talk. He wrote Fetohep constantly. Even after he’d been released from the terms of surrender, he had written. Fetohep tried to ignore him, but perfect memory—he remembered anything he read even if only glanced once. So the man’s voice—which in Fetohep’s head was slightly nasally and whining—read out his endless spiels.
At first, it had been sycophantic and terrified. Then ingratiating, flattering. The man had seemed to be reading into things that did not exist. Searching between the lines of a blank page. And then…?
Fetohep read a selection of [Messages] that almost perfectly showed him what he was searching for; he just skimmed down every sixty-four messages from the start of their history.
 
—sty of Khelt, I remind you of Khelt’s neutrality in Jecrass’ war. Any action at all to the contrary will be met by myself, and the many allies of Medain as—
 
—all my cities’ gates stand open. The incompetent fools who did not heed the exact terms of your gracious verdict have been punished, and I can personally attest to the disarmament of all forces on the border. I would also add that the Claiven Earth are not to be trusted, but upon my crown I do guarantee, once more, between sovereign [Kings]—
 
—more statues! Once more, I have dedicated the month’s feast in your name, and if you would care to send a citizen of Khelt to represent you (as I know your Eminence is not partial to such gatherings), we would feast them as an equal of mine in your stead! I did write to the Speaker of Trees about his lack of willingness to celebrate our mutual holiday in your honor, but wish you to know that all of Medain’s citiz—
 
—Happy to know that we have managed a quadruple tribute this month as a token of thanks for your largesse! I do hope your subjects enjoyed the Prelons? I note, purely by happenstance, that the people of Germina have enjoyed a rare harvest, which of course is my delight! If you would care for any other tokens of my esteem? It is, as I reflect, the will of kings to be both monster and man, and in that I have postulated—
 
—cessation in tributes, which I understand shall not inconvenience Khelt. I do appreciate your kind words of late, and I trust we shall correspond in due time. I have a war to win, sincerely—
 
And the last message of the list, just below the previous one, was shorter still.
 
Raiders in one’s lands is a terrible matter. Happily, my forces threw off the Prophet once. If Khelt were so generous, we might consider taking the matter on. I shall inquire about armies with my generals at my next council of war. I do hope to see you soon to tender all my gratitudes.
—Perric.
 
Fetohep stared at the [Message] for a long, long moment. Then he tried to calculate if King Raelt…no, he was operating a raiding force. Then Germina? Germina wasn’t even a full third of Medain’s…
“…Don’t know. Not yet. Images, optics. Where’s the ship? Insects.”
It always came down to insects. It wasn’t the Prophet. Damn the Prophet. It was the insects and the stupid citizens who yammered to everyone and complained and had [Message] spells. They never should have been allowed it.
“They should be grateful for everything. Instead, they whine. And when they do not whine, they fall into vices as they did in other ages. Gambling—!”
He raised a fist as he stalked around his throne room. Lowered it as he saw a boy’s downcast face.
“Gambling. It is not their fault.”
He cast around, and the walls of the throne room were closing in. Was that wind that he heard? The blowing sands…
Dirty. The throne room was dirty. The day-servants weren’t cleaning well. The wind that blew in blew a few moth corpses and some dust around. Fetohep began to clap his hands, outraged, but then he knew…
The skeletons did it all. They had always been the truest servants. If he could only hire some [Cleaners]…! But no one would come when there was the Prophet at the door.
Fix the bugs. Deal with the Prophet.
Allies. But the city of Dovive had pulled their forces back, and the twenty-remaining men and women had knelt and apologized to him.
How dare they be so incompetent—
Lashivet was dead. He had come here and died for a kingdom he had never known. Fetohep’s rage turned to guilt, and he looked around. Not with the eyes of a mortal man, but that of a [King].
He sat on a cracked throne, searching for light. An [Innkeeper]’s warm fire, but what could he do with it? It was so distant, and her garden was too small.
Allies. Like the links of aged metal that built the throne of Reim. Newly-made, fragile, but secured by a hundred thousand links worn in war. For all the ones that had fallen away, some had anchored, stronger than Adamantium.
But him?
Fetohep threw back his head, and there was a cry rising in his chest. No, something else. Something to express these terrible emotions.
In a way, he was his people’s king. Lanodest, the [Death Commander] of decent capabilities, who had a garden and a single Sireen’s Lily he kept in a box. Anleth, the boy gambler. Pewerthe the Potter, and every other soul in Khelt.
For even he, the Badger of Khelt, had grown up in paradise. Fetohep gave voice to that surging chaos in his heart, the discordance in his mind.
He walked into the center of the throne room, and his robes left a temporary swath of clean tiles as they picked up dust and insect carcasses. They swept the detritus as he turned, and he spread his arms, throwing open the curtains.
Angry lights from below. Chanting. A fading blood-red sky, and in the distance, a bright glow of faith. Fetohep’s golden gaze dimmed. His voice rose. And he felt that golden throne cracking. The wind was blowing.
 
“Falling thrones litter like waystones
Progress, recession, a monarch dies alone
I have watched each crown fall like glass
Never once did I move though they asked.”
 
His head turned, and the golden flames died, leaving only a dead man’s sockets.
 
“Now comes my moment, and I…”
 
His hands clenched into fists, and he reached for a weapon he didn’t bear, his voice rising until the palace trembled.
 
“I would burn a dozen nations to see mine live
Another decade!
This I have done now my debts incurred have 
Come bearing fell harvests.”
 
Then he glanced around, alone. Stepped back and gazed at the dust. Fetohep rested his hands on the balcony.
 
“Eternal Khelt calls for aid.
Salvation was spent to the world’s doom dissuade
One deed in the service of the world spurned
Now no ally as necrocracy burns
If I must watch it crumble and turn all asunder…”
 
His head tilted upwards, and he gazed directly into the sun. The King of Khelt let go of the balcony, and it cracked slightly as his grip released. A chip of stone joined the messy throne room’s floor. The King of Khelt breathed.
 
“…my pride must die.”
 
——
 
Fetohep’s Lament, written by Fetohep, performed by Fetohep. Accompanied with a string quartet and maybe one of those new pianos. Throw in a decent snare drum and you had a passable song from Khelt’s own ruler.
Applause.
Fetohep of Khelt stood in his throne room, not even registering the actual dry clapping of hands for a few seconds. Then the crimson orbs of the floating Revenant rolled upwards.
“[Chain Lightning].”
Vizir Hecrelunn stopped applauding and pointed a finger. The pathetic ruler almost dodged it, but he wasn’t even an adequate warrior; the explosion was of one of his personal magical shields, but it still tossed him across the room.
Vizir Hecrelunn flew into the throne room, hands tucked behind his back as he watched Fetohep roll into a wall.
“This is precisely why Khelt is failing. A monarch does not burst into song like some magical rabbit. If you were a tenth as worthy as any other ruler of Khelt, you would not be failing. What is this? Dust? In the throne room?”
His eyes focused on the floor as Fetohep whirled up, about to trigger defensive spells.
“Hecrelunn! You dare—”
The Revenant floated towards Fetohep and stared down at the King of Khelt.
“The Vizir has returned, at your request, or should the Vizir say, that of the ‘Heir’, ‘Your Majesty’.”
Little red quotation marks flared above him and the words transcribing themselves over his head. Hecrelunn continued.
“This Vizir did not credit it, the very same ruler who demanded so much of Khelt’s Revenants, begging for support? What is the Vizir told about Roshal raiding Khelt? Is this so?”
“Hecrelunn, I am grateful you have returned. I bid you sit, and in this dark time, I shall tell you—”
Fetohep was relieved the [Vizir] had finally come. One last hope—but he was reminded almost instantly of why he hadn’t wanted Hecrelunn, even now. The man just didn’t listen.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn condescends to this meeting, Fetohep of Khelt. Eugh. This is a filthy…[Mass Cleanse]!”
He inspected the floor as all the dirt and filth vanished, then ran a finger across the curtains. Seemingly not satisfied, he snapped his fingers.
“[Summon Dark Familiars]. [Chodlekith’s Obsessive Cleaning Cloth]. Do a circuit of the palace.”
Sixty-plus black imps spawned around him and seized glowing, too-bright cloths and began scrubbing at the curtains and floor. They grew cleaner than [Cleanse], somehow. As if a subtle varnish were being applied even to the cloth.
“Vizir, I am grateful. If you could cast that magic en-masse—”
A finger poked Fetohep in the chest. And the crimson light of Vizir’s eyes drew down as his voice rose.
“The Vizir asked you a question. Did Roshal attack Khelt?”
“Yes, and—”
Ostentatiously, Hecrelunn produced another cleaning cloth and swabbed at his earholes, then his eye sockets. Then he leaned forwards and spoke.
“I see. Then why can it still be located on a map?”
The Vizir sometimes forgot to speak in the third person. And he was bold, even for a super-spellcaster-ruler-warrior hybrid within slapping distance.
Fetohep was so tempted…but he needed Hecrelunn’s help. So he controlled himself.
“Vizir, subjects of Khelt were taken hostage. We were threatened with mutual destruction, and Khelt’s armory of long-ranged spells is not infinite. It is, in fact, reduced—”
“Ah. So you have come to the Vizir to wrap you in swaddling and tell you what to do. Very well. [Hecrelunn’s Infantile Swaddling Cloth].”
Hecrelunn tossed a blanket over Fetohep, who tore it off his head. Hecrelunn was gone. The Vizir was floating to his left and made tiny little figurines out of red magic. One looked like Fetohep if he had a pronounced overbite and a very small head.
“What one does is first assure the safety of one’s citizens. With skeletons. A captive is taken? Skeletons.”
He demonstrated, raising skeletons and surrounding a frightened person with a knife held to their throat.
“One does not negotiate. Then, one tortures each invader and broadcasts their screams over scrying orbs the world over. Then, one sends a million skeletons and drowns Roshal in blood. This is what the Vizir refers to as a ‘three-step plan’. You may require shortening to two steps, but—”
“Hecrelunn. Khelta’s skeletons have lost their ghosts.”
The Vizir paused. Then he floated upside down. He floated back the right way up, but then Fetohep felt the world rotating. Antigravity—he snapped.
“Vizir! This is not a joking matter!”
He dropped to the floor, and the Vizir stood there.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn is merely wondering if the world is tilted. For, certainly, he cannot have heard himself correctly. Implying Khelta’s undead are imperfect—”
Fetohep was tired, suddenly. He began to walk towards his throne.
“You saw the ghosts dying, Vizir. You saw Khelta d—”
“I saw no such thing.”
Hands seized him and lifted him up. The [Vizir]’s voice blazed.
“Whatever incompetence has led to present issues, I have come back to rectify. You will—”
Fetohep seized the hands and broke Hecrelunn’s grip on him. That surprised the [Vizir], and Fetohep grabbed the other man’s robes. There was a moment when Hecrelunn blurred, chopping for Fetohep’s hand, making to throw him—they pivoted as Fetohep put a foot on Hecrelunn’s knee, spinning in the air—-
They were rotating at such speed that both caught only a single frame of the doors opening as they made fists.
“Your Majesty? Did you call for a servant? There are little, floating, magic-things in the palace.”
A day-servant opened the doors to the throneroom a crack. He peered inside, and King Fetohep of Khelt was lounging on his throne. The Vizir Hecrelunn was standing at the balcony, staring outside.
All perfect propriety. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I have a guest. The familiars are but there to clean. I am not to be disturbed.”
The servant bowed hurriedly and closed the door. Fetohep waited a beat, then Hecrelunn and he were striding towards each other.
“What do you mean the undead are without ghosts?”
“I mean exactly what I say. They are no longer capable of cleaning, serving, fighting—surely you knew this! I have been reaching out to you for weeks! And there is a Prophet to the north who can erase undead!”
Hecrelunn’s eyes-lights flickered as he stepped back and stared around.
“Ridiculous. Khelta was a peerless [Necromancer]. She…no. There was a vault. All of them? I saw the Jaws attacking and assumed…there are other undead. That damn ship’s captain.”
“One ship!”
“The half-Giants.”
“They’ve vanished!”
“They’ve what? They’re shirking their duty?”
Hecrelunn was outraged, suggesting that hypocrisy was one of the few words he didn’t know. He stroked his chin, then spun.
“—And you let another nation raid you and didn’t blast them to pieces? Have you not heard of a façade, you incompetent—”
“We are out of failsafe spells, Hecrelunn! There are no more bombardment spells left in Khelt!”
Fetohep screamed in Hecrelunn’s face, at the idiotic Revenant saying all the things Fetohep had been saying this entire time, and the [Vizir] recoiled. A long silence fell, and the throne room doors opened.
Closed. At last, Hecrelunn spoke in a far, far quieter tone.
“…None? Not one? You cannot have spent them all.”
“I struck the Blighted Kingdom after the Winter’s Solstice. And then there was the palace. If I had any spells left to strike the Goblin King or that Titan…there are no more long-ranged spells that can leave Khelt’s borders. All that is left are the Arrows of Razzimir. They regenerate. Slowly. One per month.”
“You—you don’t even have a single Tier 7 spell? You wasted them on other peoples? The last resort of a kingdom?”
Hecrelunn’s horror was turning back into rage, his default mode. Fetohep sat back on his throne.
“It was for Erin Solstice. Khelta asked me to protect her.”
“One woman. One woman whose name I have grown sick of remembering—these skeletons. I have to see them. I know something of [Necromancy]. If it is just their binding…”
“It is not.”
Hecrelunn ignored him.
“When I—the Vizir—take notes from a magicless successor—arise a legion of Khelt’s faithful!”
He flew out onto the balcony, and Fetohep sat there. He had the grim satisfaction of hearing cursing from the balcony after a few minutes, and he spent that time telling servants not to interrupt and letting Pewerthe know Hecrelunn had arrived.
Surely this would solve things. Surely…but he remembered his composition. One man, even Hecrelunn. Could he really solve—?
The [Vizir] coughed, and Fetohep peered up. Hecrelunn floated in the air, staring past Fetohep. He spoke very rigidly.
“It appears that you are correct. There is a…lacking in Khelta’s enchantments. Due to these Seamwalker-adjacent threats. Inform me without delay. What issues is Khelt experiencing?”
“An undead-slaying Prophet and an entire people of thousands armed with anti-undead Skills of unknown potency to the north. The threat of other armies and growing knowledge of Khelt’s weakness. Insects, along with a lack of skeletons providing sufficient expertise to take care of the cities.”
Fetohep ticked off the issues on his fingers, these being the three biggest. Hecrelunn nodded to himself.
“[Disintegration]. [Meteor Storm]. And…[Slaves] for cleaning. Or Djinni, if enough can be taken. Merreid is likely too powerful to sack, still.”
Fetohep sat up in outrage instantly.
“Hecrelunn! [Slaves] shall never be part of Khelt, and you cannot presume to best multiple armies by yourself!”
The [Vizir] sneered at him.
“Now that does sound like one of Khelta’s successors. A pathetic king summons me and dares to put conditions on the nature of my aid? I have been raising and governing an entire nation far more vast than Khelt while you have been practicing idleatry!”
That was it. Fetohep rose, furious again, and pointed above the Vizir’s head.
“I have striven to keep Khelt’s reputation from sliding while you abandoned your position, because you feared, what? That I would use you and put constraints on your powers? You serve, Little Brother-King. Second, ‘idleatry’ is not a word. Thirdly—why is everything you say appearing over your head?”
He pointed at the floating subtitles, and the [Vizir]’s eye-lights swivelled upwards, and he cursed.
“Nekhret’s six breasts—has that been on the entire time? Dismiss!”
He waved a hand, sighing.
“Do not concern yourself with that. It is merely a way for those of deficient hearing to know what is being said. A defect not corrected in lesser kingdoms. As for the rest—I am the Vizir Hecrelunn. Whatever I term a word and use in acceptable parlance and context is therefore understandable by anyone of sufficient intellect.”
He poked Fetohep in the chest. Then poked him again.
“Second, you have come to me for aid. Your kingdom has been botched, ill-managed, by Khelt’s most incompetent ruler. If you wish for the Vizir Hecrelunn’s aid, do not presume to lecture me, King Fetohep. Beg for it.”
“I have summoned you to safeguard Khelt!”
Fetohep shouted, and the Vizir turned his head.
“And I have built a second Khelt. Or did you think Khelta’s compassion extended only to her subjects? You rulers. She formed Khelt out of generosity for the worthless, mewling peons who flocked to her. You call it a kingdom with a people of Khelt. I have never known them. She would care for random [Beggars] or cats and induct them into her kingdom with the same validity as your pampered rats. More, since one has known only hardship.”
Khelta did that? Fetohep hesitated, because he had not actually ever thought to ask where the original people of Khelt had come from. He spoke quickly, worried now.
“I do not intend to take you from this second kingdom if necessary. But I require your magics, Vizir.”
“To do what, sweep a kingdom clear?”
“To—aid against the Prophet without endangering yourself. Or at least safeguard against other nations. Having you present will be a boon, but I do ask it of you, Vizir. Humbly.”
The other Revenant floated to the balcony. He seemed to be in good spirits despite his dismay, because he knew he had Fetohep desperate.
“Hmm. Should I, I mean, the Vizir give aid? My loyalty is to Khelt, not you. It may be easier to secure the citizens of Khelt to my new domain, or wait until the citizens demand your head. This new ‘Heir’ seems far more practical than you. Perhaps I should devote some magics to this. If I were motivated by pleas.”
He laughed hugely, then turned to look at Fetohep. And the Ruler of Khelt sat on his throne, and he was tired.
But magic of the old days floated in front of him, and the Vizir’s crimson eyes winked with amusement.
“I shall offer you a deal, Fetohep of Khelt, and it is simple and munificent: kneel. Kneel to me and grovel. Press your head upon the floor and tell me that you cannot save Khelt without I, the Vizir Hecrelunn. We both know it is truth. Do this and I shall render to you my aid unceasing.”
He chuckled again, and Fetohep sat there as the Vizir waited for the rage of kings. The pride to almost match his own.
He did not know, you see, how Khelt truly was. Or the month that had passed, or months before that. So he expected a fight. Even violence, and was readying spells when Fetohep rose from the throne.
“Aha. So it seems I must teach you a lesson, just like that fool Tkayl—”
The Vizir saw Fetohep remove his crown that Khelta had once worn, that no one deserved but her, and tensed with anticipation. Then he saw Fetohep’s robes shift as he lowered onto one knee.
Leaping attack. [Haste].
The Vizir moved into overdrive, wishing he had [Greater Haste], which would make fights so easy, and he saw the King of Khelt’s head bow. Then his entire body lower past the position of someone crouching, and the motion was wrong. And then Hecrelunn realized Fetohep’s head was…
The crimson eyes narrowed to pinpoints, then Hecrelunn swung around. He turned to the balconies, and the half-open drapes snapped shut. A rune of sealing appeared on the double doors, and he floated there.
“What are you doing?”
“Hecrelunn.”
“Are you a fool?”
The [Vizir] snapped, and the figure lying on the floor spoke.
“Hecrelunn. I have tried to hold it together. I have done it with pride and ego, and it is crumbling. Save it, I beg—”
The [Vizir] pointed and fired a spell from his finger, blind. Fetohep popped back onto his throne, and the Vizir spun.
“You are a wretch and a coward. No fit Ruler of Khelt bows their head.”
“Yes. This is likely so. Hecrelunn…it’s breaking. I implore you.”
The weary King of Khelt sat there, and the Vizir Hecrelunn hesitated. He folded his arms. Uncrossed them.
“If I do this thing, it is for Khelta, not you. And there are limits to even this Vizir’s magic. But if only to—it cannot be this dire. I flew over cities and saw mere tantrums. Crying children can be spanked and then their woes fixed. Mass-cleanse spells and hiring servants. All that need be done is kill this Prophet.”
“He is up to something.”
Fetohep felt like a man clinging to the last scraps of grass. His head rose as Hecrelunn nodded, speaking more calmly.
“Yes, yes. I will gauge his strength. Even if he can slay undead—”
“He is dangerous, Vizir. His power is faith. An unknown. The same faith that killed Khelta.”
Hecrelunn paused, and his eye-lights shone brighter.
“Then I will slaughter him twice as readily. Have you trusted servants? Sand at Sea…no, mortals. I shall do this. You will sit and regain some dignity. Now, I require a meeting with this Heir. I require more understanding of which armies are coming and which ones to make an example of. Let us conduct a thorough list.”
He snapped his fingers, and a floating scroll appeared. Fetohep began to nod and sat up slightly. Hecrelunn made an exhaling sound.
“Strange, though. I feel as though I were but a mere [Bandit] again, in parables. Is there some kind of…Skill affecting this kingdom? Not yours. I know you are a simple warrior.”
“What Skill?”
Fetohep paused, and Hecrelunn cast about. He felt at the back of his neck.
“It does not affect me, but I flew through…it must have been thousands. It’s one of those stories that was common even when I was alive and mortal. You know, the one about the [Thieves] and pots? Yes, that’s it. Pots.”
…Pots?
King Fetohep of Khelt didn’t understand. Then he saw, in his mind’s eye, Pewerthe at her potter’s wheel, and he remembered her class.
The silver-tongued [Potter of Secrets] who had once turned a famous [Bandit] group against each other by manipulating them. Getting them to do silly things like speak into a pot which she buried in the ground.
Pots. What kind of power came from [Potters], anyways? It was surely as nonsensical as that of an…
[Innkeeper].
What happened if you hit high levels as a [Potter]? What could a pot contain? Liquids, objects? Act like a bag of holding? Something more? Could you put a secret in a pot if you were high-level enough?
But could you hide a kingdom’s secrets in one? No, not without a vast pot. But what about small ones for small conclusions? If it was just keeping someone from connecting the dots…
How many pots would that take? The King of Khelt remembered seeing mud under Pewerthe’s nails, her fingers run ragged, and he had snapped at her for wasting time. A hobby.
A hobby like gambling. He saw the Vizir casting about and spoke.
“Pewerthe.”
“What kind of stupid name is that? Is that the Heir’s name? I—”
Crack.
Both Revenants heard the soft sound in the night. Sleeping citizens in the capital heard it.
 
——
 
The Prophet heard it in his headquarters.
 
——
 
Farmer Colovt heard it in his farms from one of the unused fields.
 
——
 
Pewerthe heard it as she spun clay into a new pot with bleeding fingers and peered up.
“No. No, nonono. Not yet. Please, just a while longer! Just a—”
The second cracking sound wasn’t audible by ear, but it ran through the marrow. A crack in reality itself. Like something breaking.
The [Potter] was running outside to her messy backyard with her upturned soil. She was digging with a shovel, shouting for Frieke, for help—but it was too late. When she unearthed the first pot, buried and tightly sealed, she saw the crack running down the face of it. Then, on another, the same crack. She was trying to hold it together, and then…
The pots cracked open. Pewerthe was flung backwards and cried out once before she struck the walls of her house. She felt pain, heard a snapping sound, and then heard it.
Voices.
“—attack by Roshal! [Slavers] in Eternal Khelt!”
“A Prophet of God! Robbed on the open road! What is His Majesty doing…”
“—saw them falling to bits before my eyes!”
“—[Mercenaries] running. What of the army?”
A chorus of voices, a babble of silenced truths. Rumors and secrets. Pewerthe reached up blindly.
“No…”
They were growing louder. That was the secret of pots. You could put anything you wanted in them, but nothing lasted forever, and she had held onto them as long as…
Louder. As citizens of Khelt woke up in a blind panic. Spies and gossipmongers put together pieces of a web that became a single, damning conclusion instantly. And upon their thrones…
 
——
 
King Perric of Medain sat up in his war-room meeting as a nebulous idea became, suddenly, obvious. His eyes blazed with fury.
 
——
 
The Empress of Sands smiled bleakly on her throne.
“Call for [General of Sands] Izzec now.”
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina of Jecrass sat for a moment and wiped at her eyes. But before the [Royal Spymaster] was running into the throne room, she was already there, calling for her father.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt stood in his throne room and spoke as Vizir Hecrelunn reached for the strands of truth flowing past them.
“Those damned—they’re finding out! Those wretched citizens! Was that why I didn’t hear anything from my spies? This…who did this?”
“My glorious [Potter].”
Cracking. He could still hear it, but not from Pewerthe’s lovely pots. It was coming from behind him. Fetohep stood, and Hecrelunn’s voice was urgent.
“This Prophet must be taken care of. Show of force. What they believe is not the truth we present, even with this. We work together now, Fetohep. Fetohep?”
He turned, and the King of Khelt was resting a silent hand on the throne. He glanced up.
“Shh.”
“What? No ‘shh’. What are you doing?”
Fetohep glanced at the Vizir, amused, for he could hear it, and any ruler could except the self-absorbed man.
“Can’t you hear it? It’s breaking. This is my duty, Hecrelunn. My responsibility. My fault. I’m sorry, Khelt.”
Hecrelunn was opening his mouth to retort, angry, when the golden flames in Fetohep’s eyes winked out. The undead king sagged, and the Vizir caught him. He shook Fetohep, and then—
 
——
 
Frieke had to use a potion on Pewerthe, who’d broken a leg. But there was no time for a [Healer]’s. Pewerthe received the summons from her speaking stone, heard Hecrelunn’s desperate voice, and then she was running.
Running with Frieke, who no longer smiled. Running as citizens poured into the streets, no longer rioting, but screaming. Screaming with a mortal panic, which was oh so much worse than anger.
Terror and bedlam, and Pewerthe kept running, up the palace steps. When she burst into the throne room, she already knew what she would see.
For the second time in his undeath, King Fetohep of Khelt dreamed.
 
——
 
This was the King of Khelt’s second dream. He was not in his palace.
It was dark. He felt like someone had taken a pillow and pressed it over his lungs—he couldn’t breathe. He was trying, but air only came in short bursts, and a needle of fear was ramming through his stomach.
He—he couldn’t think. He was flailing. Falling. He wanted to scream, but he couldn’t.
A [King] did not scream. But it was coming out of his heart, his soul. A kind of shriek beneath his panicked thoughts.
—have to stem the Prophet—armies aware of—Eldavin, what does he know? Jaws. Medain, Claiven Earth, tributes to Roshal.
The image of Khelt crumbling away in his hands was ringing through his head, as it had every second of every moment since he had witnessed it. Prophecy? His failings made manifest?
He did not know, but the undead could not forget.
His memory was perfect, so the horror of it was fresh. He tried to draw himself up, call on his learned regality, the pride of Khelt, but how did you sit just so?
Falling, tumbling into a void, and at the same time compressed into a coffin an inch too small in every dimension, shaking within his own body with the scream he could not utter, because he was the last bastion of Khelt, the ruler. If he fell…
It was slipping through his fingers, through a thousand skeletons’ eyes. His people raging at him. Their voices pleading, demanding—
To dust. TO DUST.
And it came upon him, another vision—
A’CTELIOS SALASH RISING, DEVOURING SCREAMING CHILDREN BY THE THOUSANDS. WALLS BURNING. SKIES OF FIRE.
AN [INNKEEPER] IN CHAINS. SEAMWALKERS RISING.
“Fetohep.”
DUST FALLING FROM THE SKIES. THE CHAINS OF ROSHAL DRAWING TIGHT.
“Fetohep, hear me!”
DUST. ALL TO DUST—
Then a voice broke through it all and spoke with the power to stop the earth from shaking. With the will to halt falling mountains and remake them in glorious gems. As a parent spoke to a child. With all the certainty in the world, a voice he had not heard since he had lived.
“Fetohep of Khelt, breathe. Calm yourself. Be silent and listen to me.”
It cut through the ceaseless panic attack, into the dream, and the darkness vanished. A voice like golden sunlight. Fetohep of Khelt sat up, looked around, and then…he saw the undead.
Not a skeleton. Nor, even, a being like Captain Cikroleth. This was someone else. A preserved corpse, shrouded in purple robes, the style of which had not changed for aeons. An emaciated face, noseless, the leathery skin of a mummy from Trey’s world.
For a moment, Fetohep thought he was gazing at his reflection, but the figure was shorter. He had never been a warrior, but a [Mage], and his eye-flames were not gold, but a warm red, the color of cherries. Still regal, but so kind…
He stood there, and a woman who stood next to King Razzimir of Khelt, the 15th Ruler, was even shorter than he. She had mortal flesh, and the years had made her short near the end of her life, hair white, wizened. Then in another moment she was taller, hair black and white, wearing a dress embroidered with bones.
Khelta.
“I am dreaming.”
That was Fetohep’s first thought. The second was to panic.
“I am dreaming! I have failed again! If I do not wake—”
A torrent of terror dragged him downwards, but King Razzimir spoke once more.
“Fetohep. Fetohep, focus on my voice. Look at me. Breathe. In and out. You are dreaming, partially, but you are also standing in the lands of the dead. Khelta, words of encouragement.”
Fetohep’s whirling mind re-focused as Khelta visibly jumped, then cleared her throat.
“Er. Well done, Fetohep, my successor. Don’t panic. There there.”
She glanced at King Razzimir and, for once, seemed uncertain. He stroked his chin as Fetohep’s panic receded once more.
“There. Fetohep, take your thoughts slowly, you understand? Even for undead, you can work yourself up into a frenzy, and we cannot stop. It is like a spinning top: we will never slow down. I told you I had advisors who had panic attacks in my time, Khelta.”
He turned and gave her an arch look. Khelta pinched at the bridge of her nose.
“And I mocked you for it. It is clear that there are elements to undeath even I did not predict. Yes, Fetohep, listen to King Razzimir. Though what kind of panic attacks?”
The 15th King of Khelt steepled his fingers together and spoke with a smile, possibly for Fetohep’s benefit as the 19th Ruler focused on his voice.
“As a matter of fact, they were my trusted companions who chose to follow me into undeath. A practice which seems to have ended with Queen Xierca? She mentioned difficulties in that regard. My advisors were quite capable, but the Creler Wars terrified them. And as I said, with undead, it can result in such calamitous emotions that at a certain point it becomes sheer madness. Self-harm to destroy oneself because the vessel cannot physically contain the emotions.”
“Fascinating. Perhaps it is a flaw in how I made the Revenant King spell. I never tested it upon myself…”
“You could never be so foolish, Great Khelta.”
Razzimir assured Khelta, and Fetohep opened his mouth to do the same, but the Great Necromancer of Khelt just stood there, hands bunched in her dress, head hung low. Looking…miserable.
“You say it kindly, my successors, but I did not anticipate this. My magic warded Khelt longer than most, yes, but look what I have given to Fetohep. A struggle beyond any of us.”
A wretched gaze, now, and Fetohep took in his surroundings and realized they stood in long, swaying stalks of dried grass. Blue sand under moonlight, vast hills in the distance—where were they? He bowed to her.
“It is my failing, Great Khelta. Mine and mine alone. I sacrificed the ghosts and undead of Khelt at the Meeting of Tribes. I deemed it just, but I weakened Khelt, and what follows is my sin. I shall never atone for—”
Razzimir nudged Khelta.
“As I told you, he was blaming himself.”
“Yes, yes. Oh Fetohep, my successor nineteen times over…be silent a moment. Breathe. You are dreaming, and perhaps it is ill, but hear us. Look upon us. We stand in the lands of the dead. Free from the Goddess Formerly Known as Death’s grip. We are free.”
Khelta’s eyes flashed. Her lips quirked, and she wore a smile of victory. Fetohep’s remembered heart leapt. He knelt before her, staring around and realizing—yes! This was it.
“You triumphed. As I should have known you would—”
Razzimir coughed, Khelta inspected her shoes, and both avoided looking at him. Razzimir spoke while hiding his mouth behind his hands in an old-Kheltian gesture of embarrassment.
“It was not our doing, Fetohep. Say, rather, it was the defeat of Kasigna which returned our souls. As for the, ah, rest, it appears the force that governs all has recreated the deadlands, albeit with changes. If we owe anyone gratitude…it is to a white rat of our mutual persuasion.”
Fetohep stared at him as he rose to his feet.
“…Haldagaz?”
Khelta sighed louder and pursed her lips.
“He refers to the Gnoll Fatechosen. Among many, many others. What we know is rudimentary, gathered from hearsay—flashes of insight while we were part of that damned goddess. Happily, we are freed and our connection restored enough that we may talk. Only four of us; the others were taken by the other gods. But it brings us hope they may be returned, in time.”
“If they haven’t been digested.”
Razzimir muttered darkly, and Khelta regarded him. Fetohep was stunned. Then rejoicing.
“Then our connection has returned! The glorious dead are Khelt’s once more! We are saved! I shall wake and set it all to rights, Great Khelta, I—”
He stopped. Because she had lifted a hand, palm out, and her face, her mortal face, was guilty. Fetohep felt that sinking feeling again as Khelta whispered.
“Fetohep, I regret to tell you that it is not the same as it was. If it were, Khelt would have been returned to strength, or a modicum of it, the moment we were freed. It has been some time since then. The souls of Khelt shall not empower the undead.”
He stared at her, and she began to pace, her finger glowing in the air. Razzimir’s head bowed, and she spoke.
“Allow me to explain. This very ground we stand on is the palace in which you now reside. Chandrar looked different in my age. I laid the magics to create Khelt’s undead, my finest work, into the earth.”
Razzimir and Fetohep gazed down.
“Why blue sand?”
“…Because it is. Sand comes in many colors. Blue, black, white, orange—no?”
Khelta glanced at them and went on without missing a beat.
“It was the most complex work of my life and a collaboration between masters of other disciplines. Only a combined ritual allowed Khelt to be created, and it was still the work of centuries refining the magic. I laid a [Million Sigil Magical Array] as the entry conduit, and from there…it doesn’t matter. Even Hecrelunn didn’t understand it. Hence the issue. No [Necromancer] since my death has ever managed to alter the wards. By now, I imagine they are embedded; any attempt to shift them will likely erase it all.”
Fetohep listened, trying to find hope, and feeling himself slipping into panic. He slowed himself, forced away the panic, as Razzimir had just shown him. Khelta went on.
“That connection is how we ghosts drew upon the power of Khelt to defend the deadlands so long. But when we were taken, lost, we were ripped from the [Vault of Glorious Souls]. Our knowledge, our presence, the thing that gives both the undead and ghosts the power of Khelt, was lost.”
“But you have returned, Great Khelta. Does that not mean…?”
Khelta turned her eyes upon Fetohep and shook her head.
“The deadlands were utterly obliterated, Fetohep. Our souls repatriated to this new place—but not to Khelt. Nevermind that we are returned. If one rips the paint from a mural, can it be put back just so?”
He understood, but it was so…Razzimir muttered.
“Unfair. I would petition the system of such cruel justice.”
Khelta stared skywards.
“…I think our connection with Fetohep is already that concession, Razzimir. Or perhaps the rules are changing further. These deadlands seem different, but I do not know what it will bring. What I do know is this: Khelt’s dead shall not empower the land.”
Despair once more. Until Khelta added softly.
“Not for at least three generations.”
Fetohep’s head snapped up. The Great Necromancer paced back and forth along the sands as it floated upwards and refused to fall, hanging in strange drifts in her wake.
“The vault requires refilling. With capable, canny minds. By the thousands. For every skeleton who needs to know how to fight, there should be a hundred souls who have known combat.”
Fetohep opened his mouth, appalled, to point out that Khelta was suggesting something far more impossible, but Razzimir beat him to it.
“Khelta, that would suggest we need the souls of a hundred million Kheltians to field even a million undead! We could not fill Khelt with those numbers in three generations! I know you were famously bad at math, but how vast do you think Khelt’s population is? Even accounting for tremendous population growth, we wouldn’t have reached that capacity within four rulers of my time!”
Khelta paused and scowled at Razzimir. Fetohep’s head turned to her, and he closed his mouth hurriedly. Bad with…? She flicked her fingers out.
“My calculations are not incorrect. I rephrase. What I mean is that for every skeleton that must fight, a hundred souls, at least, should be stored in the [Vault of Souls] that they might provide pieces of the puzzle. No one soul fills a Kheltian skeleton. That prevents numerous issues. They draw from a whole, a gestalt. That means—”
“Yes, yes, we all know the word. Aha, I see. But would a hundred souls not be simple to accumulate? Not that I am implying one should sacrifice a hundred warriors, yet if it saved Khelt…”
The [Necromancer] glowered at Razzimir, and he finally shut up. She spoke haughtily.
“I would not sacrifice a single Kheltian. Nor do the unwilling work well with such magics. Khelt is based on loyalty, trust! A hundred souls will barely, barely give the skeletons more fighting prowess. But it is more than that. Balance, the simple way to walk, familiarity with tools—better to have a thousand warriors. Better still to have a hundred thousand. I have calculated this, and I saw it done in my lifetime, Razzimir. Three generations is how long it took the Khelt of old. At first, the effects will be barely noticeable due to the diffusion of memories in the vault and the spells I used to safeguard against undead turning rogue—bah, you two are not [Necromancers]. I shall not bore you with the details. Three generations, Fetohep. I know it may be daunting.”
Then she and Razzimir turned to Fetohep and seemed to recall the gravity of the situation. Khelta gave him an anguished look, and the confession slipped from his mouth.
“I shall not manage one, Khelta. It is failing. I am failing.”
“We know.”
Razzimir kicked Khelta in the ankles, and she amended her words.
“It is not your fault, Fetohep. You are handed an impossible task with events I could not foresee. And enemies—Khelt’s enemies we have accrued over keeping paradise secure. We…cannot help you. In truth, I do not know if you must dream to visit us, or if we can speak to you while awake. I fear the former; you will have to meditate or dream. We have tried to speak to you upon your throne, and see Khelt, but we can no longer do that.”
So, they had returned, but the magics that governed Khelt were broken. It might be remade, but—Fetohep knelt.
“You have seen me in my despair, and I have besmirched myself in your eyes, Khelta. If I must hold Khelt three generations, I will—try. But I speak to you in all honesty: I do not know if I can safeguard your kingdom.”
He waited for some grand words of encouragement, but Khelta just studied him, then fell onto the sands. She sat heavily, bracing herself with her hands. Razzimir was far more decorous and knelt. Khelta’s hair covered her face as she bowed her head.
“You will do all you can, Fetohep. I know you shall. No more can I ask. Have Hecrelunn…where is Hecrelunn? Has he perished? I have not seen him, but he could have gone exploring.”
Fetohep’s heart hurt, and now he was resolved. He had to wake with this seed of hope, with the knowledge in his chest. But he hesitated.
“I was speaking to him when I…collapsed. He agreed to help, but he had been ignoring my [Messages] and not understanding the full scope of Khelt’s woes, it seems. What do you mean…exploring? Where are the two other rulers of Khelt that were returned?”
Khelta spat onto the sands, such a vulgar act that both Razzimir and Fetohep gasped.
“That spiteful child. He never aged in spirit. What I mean, Fetohep, is that this is not the deadlands of old. It is far, far vaster, and it seems to have things meant for we dead. Many still wait to know what happens next, or in the hopes we can be of some aid to the living. But Tkayl has already gone exploring, with Salui, and so has Zushe-Greso.”
Razzimir nodded, smiling, and cast his eyes to the horizon, and Fetohep realized it was vast and infinite. He even saw other ghosts in the distance, and Khelta raised her hands and greeted them, as if meeting new people. Not like how Erin had described it, people re-living their lives, at the mercy of fading into nothingness without levels.
“There is peace here, for those who wait and so we do not all dance attendance on the living. A good thing, that. You would not enjoy Salui’s presence, Fetohep. He is rather…obsessive. A failing, I suspect, in either his upbringing or the cult of personality that His-Xe cultivated. Not that I would denigrate the rule of another of my predecessors, but if I were to analyze—”
Khelta shot Fetohep a stare as Razzimir began to drone and murmured.
“Were it not for the debt I owe you, I too might have gone exploring. But I shall remain until the end, Fetohep. I just…I wish I had more than hope for you.”
He knelt again.
“A chance Khelt can be restored is that hope, Khelta. I must simply hold it together. I must…I beg your wisdom. Let me at least consult with you upon a plan for Khelt. My problems are manifest, and I do not have a solution.”
He clutched at the blue sand in his hands. He wanted their wisdom. How to combat the Prophet. Or—whom he should approach. What they would do.
Great Khelta, his ruler and the founder of his nation, stood before Fetohep, and her face was anguished. Just as quickly she produced something, a mask made of porcelain, and put it to her face. Fetohep and Razzimir stared.
She wore a face familiar to them; a mask meant to look like a skeleton’s. It even had some kind of illusory effect so her eyes glowed from within like their eye-flames. Yet, after a moment, Khelta took the mask away. She studied it, rueful.
“I carried this around every day for centuries until it broke, since I was a little girl. I wept when it broke. Strange. I often feel like that girl, for all I am Great Khelta in death, and I lived for centuries as the world’s finest [Necromancer]. So powerless, though. We held the afterlife against the dead gods for ages, and all spoke to us as if we were heroes, but we were lucky. Now, my successor asks for wisdom, and I…I have only shreds of hope to give him. I fear it will be hard, Fetohep.”
“I did not mean to imply it was in any way your fault, Great Khelta. You have worked magic beyond any other nation in life and death! Even the Shield Kingdoms do not endure as finely as you! The Quarass’ Germina is poor while Khelt is rich. I only…”
Fetohep’s voice trailed off, and Razzimir, that kindly king who had endured the Creler Wars, put his hands behind his back. He rocked on his heels and peered down at his shoes.
“It is a strange thing to try to give advice. We do not live, Fetohep, we do not see the scope of your kingdom. If it were I, the advice would be easy: you must fight the Crelers. You cannot hide behind your walls. Unleash the might of Khelt, fool! Don’t you see how many you are damning? They’re eating the peoples of this world outside your safe walls. Experimenting on them. Torturing them for sport. Craven effigies rising, and you let it happen and think this is the will of Khelt.”
Khelta and Fetohep turned to Razzimir, and he clawed at his face. Fetohep saw grooves on his undead flesh. He knelt, bowing his head, and then his brilliantly cherry-colored eyes focused on Fetohep.
“My sin was complacency. I have not atoned for it nor shall I, Fetohep. But you did what I could not. You stood for just and moral causes, and you suffer a problem I never faced: weakness. Khelt was not weak. I should have unleashed Hecrelunn, every Revenant of Khelt, every weapon. You did. And now your kingdom is…frail. I have been begged and supplicated all my years, but never had to bow my head. I do not know how to advise you. I am sorry.”
He stood there, and Fetohep bowed back to Razzimir.
“I am relieved to hear you say that, King Razzimir. If you have never faced such a problem…it is some comfort.”
Razzimir conjured a seat of sand and sat by Fetohep and made another so that they might sit. He offered Khelta a sand-chair, but she remained standing, watching them from behind that mask. Razzimir spoke.
“I find that it is often my perspective alone which is flawed. We have advisors for a reason; no man, woman, Djinni, or even, I suspect, Gods have the perfect point of view. Have you people you trust?”
Fetohep thought of Alked, Pewerthe, Colovt.
“Fewer than I would like, but yes.”
Razzimir chuckled.
“Ah, that is the constant complaint of all those who lead. Then a second question. Do they ever argue with you?”
“Some, yes.”
“Good. If they only spoke what you wished to hear, it would be a poor mark. Diversity of thought is essential. But now is the question to test all rulers of Khelt. Your advisors, your companions. Do they ever win such arguments, Fetohep?”
Razzimir could not know about Pewerthe’s stridency, but his flaming gaze still made Fetohep hesitate and stare down at his hands.
“I have…no. No, seldom if at all. I grow wrathful, perhaps. She—it is the Heir of Khelt, a good and clever young woman—she sees Khelt’s woes differently than mine.”
“But you trust her character? Her heart?”
Fetohep thought of the breaking pots and bowed his head further.
“Yes. More so now that I realize how foolish and blind I was to her true efforts.”
“That is the lesson every ruler should take. When to bow and step aside. The crown tells us a simple truth: we must never yield, never relinquish a bit of power, never give away our authority. And perhaps that is how the state endures. But we are all fragile people made of flaws. I should have listened, Fetohep. So that is my advice to you. Listen and act. But I do not know how to speak of Khelt’s failings. Khelta?”
Razzimir stood, and the Great Necromancer sat next. Her black hair floated as she sat, and Fetohep wondered if she smelled of bone dust. She seemed unworldly as she removed her mask. A [Necromancer] of stories, eyes containing the power to raise armies, a voice which could thunder and speak to the dead.
But when she put the mask on her face, she became younger. A young woman, and she spoke softly.
“This mask. Do they have any in your time, Fetohep?”
“None, Khelta. I do not know its likeness, and I have known many artifacts of Khelt and death-magic.”
She nodded.
“Good. It is not needed. It is a Deathface. When I was a girl, everyone wore them. When I look at you and think of Khelt, no longer able to raise armies of capable warriors, I think of this mask. It has been long, long, since I needed to wear it. Do you know what it does?”
“It seems to make you look like a skeleton, Khelta.”
She nodded, and her glowing eyes peered out of the mask.
“It is a mask mortals wear to hide their features from the dead. You put this on, and the undead will think you are one of them, if they are simple. The clever ones know you wear it, but they might tolerate you more, even knowing it. It is the mask of people scared of the undead, of the Breathless Age of Nekhret and the Necromancer Kings. I grew up in its fall. I have been weak, Fetohep. And I think…you have not.”
He stared at her. Great Khelta had once been so afraid of the undead she had worn a mask to hide her living body from them? He tried to nod.
“I understand compromises must be made—”
She lifted a hand, and he fell silent.
“No, you do not. Before you speak, I hear it in your words. Compromise. No and no. At times, you must compromise, bend your position, but you surely know this. But at times, I have known only abject helplessness. Compromise is a word for those who have options. In the coming days and years, you will have none. And that is a terror, Fetohep. Have you ever known defeat?”
He hesitated. His memory of a heart was beating faster, and Razzimir whispered.
“Your breathing, Fetohep.”
He controlled himself and spoke.
“I…of course. When I was alive, I lost battles. I died fighting in one. I have known defeat, Khelta.”
She nodded, lifting her mask slightly, and her painted lips moved.
“Then have you ever known helplessness?”
This time, Fetohep paused long, and he replied.
“…Not until recently. It is—terrifying.”
“Yes. That is what you face. You have never grovelled, have you, Fetohep?”
“Me? In what sense of the word?”
Khelta’s tongue clicked, but softly.
“Grovelled. Crawled across the ground, forehead pressed to the rough earth to kiss the feet of an undead master. Begged for mercy and kindness and debased yourself to live another moment.”
He sat there as Razzimir stared at Khelta.
“No. Never.”
“It is not an experience I wished for any of my people. It is not something Hecrelunn knows. But I remember it. You think you have been pushed to the limit, Fetohep. That your pride cannot break. I tell you: it can, and the pieces can be stomped into dust. I wished never for one of Khelt to face it, but I tell you this now. Do not grovel or beg those who come for you. Hold tight to each treasure of Khelt, and fight for every piece of it you can keep.”
Khelta’s eyes locked on him as she lifted the mask again and handed it to him. He ran his fingers down the delicately contoured bones, and Khelta met his gaze.
“But when you wake, practice grovelling on the ground and remember how it feels. For if you raise your head when that moment comes, you will lose it.”
“I do not know…if I can bear it, Khelta. I don’t know how to be less than prideful.”
He confessed, and she took his hands.
“I know. But you can. You must. It is the hardest burden I have placed on any of my successors, but I charge you with it. Do you love Khelt?”
“Yes. With all my being.”
She nodded.
“Then, when you are forced to bow, think of that and all you hold dear. More than your own life. And bow further. Do what you must. But live, Fetohep. You and every one of my children’s children. But live.”
Her words did not make Fetohep feel better. If anything, they instilled in him a dread greater than he had held before. But not a panic. King Razzimir cleared his throat as Khelta stood, and then Fetohep rose.
“Now may be the ideal moment to more concretely offer you actionable plans, rather than broad concepts. A place for both, I feel. If you would give us a run-down on Khelt’s current assets and problems, perhaps we might problem-solve.”
Khelta nodded, visibly relieved as she passed a hand over her features, and she was then the imperious ruler who stood with the pride of Khelt eternal. She nodded.
“Yes, and if there are any capable [Necromancers] you trust, I might suggest some spells or undead that could aid. Did you say…bugs were an issue? There are undead you could make to catch such things. Or [Familiars]. Don’t they have those?”
“I do not believe it is common knowledge, Great Khelta. But I welcome both your inputs. I shall deliver a report of Khelt, then.”
The rulers were nodding, prepared to give him what guidance they could. Then Khelta threw out a hand.
“Wait. Something’s wrong. Fetohep, wake up.”
He saw her peering around and spun.
“I have been trying. What…?”
The world was flickering. Razzimir spoke, eye-flames darting in every direction.
“Impossible. Argh, I feel a fool as I did in the Creler Wars, naïve! But, Khelta, you assured us this place was now sacrosanct! How could it be—?”
“I never said that! I said it was changed unto the whims of this Grand Design! It might be a place where war can begin anew, and certainly the dead and living can influence each other! Weapons. We need weapons, but how are they made?”
Something was—Fetohep reached out, and static, the kind he had seen come over the [World’s Eye Theatre], seemed to flicker across his vision.
Only, instead of his vision, it was the entire world. Khelta and Razzimir recoiled.
“Fetohep! Your connection is breaking—Khelta, it cannot be, truly. You said she was defeated beyond recovery, forever!”
Razzimir tried to reach for Fetohep, but their hands passed through each other. Khelta was walking around Fetohep, a glowing finger raised.
“It is her. But…hm. She’s not coming here. Nekhret’s bones. Fetohep! She’s coming after you! In your dreams! She has not the power nor authority here, but you—wake up! Wake up! Resist!”
“Wake up! Wake up, son of Khelt! Breathe, in, out! Think of your diaphragm rising and falling—”
The two panicked voices receded as the static rushed across the world, and they vanished. Then, Fetohep stood in utter darkness. He turned, slowly, and…there she was.
Just as before, only it was one instead of three. And she seemed so wretched and exhausted as she knelt there, panting, as if this had cost her—but he flinched from her. He recoiled and backed away, for it was her.
She always lived.
Kasigna.
 
——
 
One instead of three.
By dreams instead of death.
No longer Mother or Maiden. Just Crone. Just…Kasigna.
No longer even the Goddess of Death. It had all been sundered from her. She had never fallen this far. Never…but she lived. She refused to die.
By these things, she came to him, a panting woman rotting away, as the King of Khelt stumbled back from her, fear filling him. But her outstretched hand had no power in it. She could not even force him to take her hands. So she spoke, her voice cracked with grief, despair, and desperate hope.
“King…of Khelt. Fetohep. Once again, I come to you, though it is not…a Solstice.”
For a moment, he was dumbstruck with horror, then he found his rage and pointed at her.
“You. You dare return to me, enemy of my people? Ruination of Khelt? I will have you slain, destroyed utterly! You drag me into dreaming; I see it now, your schemes! It shall avail you naught, spawn of grublings beneath even Rhir’s contempt!”
He might have gone on, but Kasigna licked her cracked lips.
“I did not. You dreamed of your own accord. I merely—intercepted it.”
Fetohep hesitated.
“—Lies.”
She panted at him, still with a trace of a sneer, but her voice had too much urgency. She spoke quickly, glancing around, as if afraid she was running out of time.
“It is not a lie. If I had the power to even…you dreamed yourself, undead king. Forced yourself beyond your limits, be it physical or emotional. I do…I don’t recall what the God of Undeath shaped his people to be. What rules govern you?”
She put her hand to her head, shaking grey and white hair. He stared at her.
She seemed pitiful. Which only put his guard up more. But Kasigna just gazed at him and rasped.
“I offer you an accord.”
“No. Begone.”
He whirled away from her, and she tried to stand, hobble forwards.
“Listen to me—! You are weak. I know you are. I was there at the Winter Solstice. I felt your unfilled dead, your precarious kingdom. It must be worse now, is it not? It surely is!”
She didn’t…know. Fetohep swung back to her, and Kasigna’s eyes were desperate.
“The dreams of your people are troubled. You are plagued by a swarm of gigantic insects. A being of faith walks your lands. These things I know, so I offer you an accord. Hear me out.”
“Ah. The swarms of giant insects are indeed troubling. Especially the giant man-eating centipedes.”
The King of Khelt actually advanced a step, and Kasigna’s lips stretched over her teeth in a desperate grimace of a smile.
“Yes. Yes! Thus, listen to me. I have been reduced in power. My aspect, my nature, it—it matters not. A pact between us will right both our wrongs. I require faith. You require guidance. I cannot control Death.”
She stumbled, as if that hurt her, then closed her eyes.
“…But there are still means. An alliance. Of equals. I shall restore your shattered kingdom to order, and you shall have your people speak my name. Teach them faith. As my power grows, thus shall your kingdom prosper. This is my pact. I offer it with no tricks, in full honesty.”
Fetohep was very still as he inspected her.
“And how shall I trust you, Crone, Kasigna, or whatever being you are? Once, you tried to control me. How shall this ‘alliance of equals’ play out, and when may I expect the dagger in my back? Why would anyone trust your word, wretched soul-thief?”
“Because I cannot even lie, fool!”
She launched herself at him, defying gravity in a leap, and he was too slow. He recoiled and dodged, but for a second, her hand touched his chest, and he staggered and felt—
Nothing.
Kasigna landed in an ungainly heap, and Fetohep patted his chest, ready to rip his very bones out, but he felt…nothing. She looked up at him, and now he saw her.
Just…her. No vast structure of harvested souls and ideals. No mighty aspect of death in a millions forms. Just a name, an idea, a face.
The very dredges of a goddess.
“I cannot even…take your will. Nor do I have the strength to lie.”
“A lie is but words.”
She rasped at him, amusement breaking through desperation.
“Fool. To you it is. To me? I am unto a soul as we meet here. Naked. Imagine that, and understand that I cannot even tell an untruth.”
“I shall not imagine nakedness in any form, much less yours. But I see.”
She was telling the truth. He felt it, instinctually and on an intellectual level—she was genuinely desperate. She might be deceiving him in some way, but he suspected there were now levers to pull in the course of a relationship that had not existed before. If ever there was a moment for a mortal to best a god…
“My kingdom is indeed beset, Kasigna. From all sides. I see it crumbling, and I see the limits of my vanity and pride. I cannot hold it together, and if I could for but three generations…the life of every soul in Khelt rests upon my shoulders, and I am weak. Therefore…”
He stepped closer, and her face rose. In relief, she raised shaking hands.
“Take my hands and we shall make a pledge.”
“As equals.”
“Yes, yes. I shall be Goddess of Khelt and Khelt alone. Whatever is within my powers. Restoring that soul called Khelta, your undead. Take my hands. Please.”
He took her hands, and she gasped as he helped her rise to her feet. They stood there as her eyes flickered with relief, and Fetohep waited. Waited until he read her unguarded expression and realized she truly meant every word.
Then he dropped her. She fell forwards, catching herself on the ground with her hands, and gasped.
“What are you…?”
She reached up for his hand, and he slapped it down. Kasigna recoiled, and Fetohep of Khelt stepped back.
“Your words have no lie to them, Kasigna, Crone. Former Goddess of Death. Yet know this: you who have attacked Khelt for countless ages, you who took the souls of my people and Great Khelta herself. You presume for a modicum of mercy after you were given every chance? It is true my kingdom is ailing. It is true I am desperate. But I would rather watch you ooze your last moments of existence onto the sands of Chandrar as I lay impaled by a thousand blades than lift one finger in your aid, even if it meant my own salvation.”
“You…fool. We’ll both perish. Your kingdom. Your people!”
For a moment, he hesitated as she tried to reach up for him. Just for a moment. But then King Fetohep of Khelt stepped back.
“I shall find and reach for every other way. I am not without resource, even now. You are. It may be the pride of the last King of Khelt who will damn us all. But I shall see you die first, wretch. By Great Khelta’s name, die. As you remember Erin Solstice bested you, die twice.”
He spun on his heel. She lay there, panting, then screamed at him, a shriek of desperate rage and defeat, and he smiled.
Just once as he bade himself wake to cruel reality. Kasigna screamed and screamed—
And then Fetohep of Khelt woke up. Grim, despairing as he expected more calamity, but even now, prideful.
His flaw. The mark of Khelt’s rulers. He rose to make an end to this, but he did not know how it would play out.
 
——
 
Fetohep’s dream ended, and she was cast into the void between dreaming, the only place a soul such as hers could exist. Reality would have torn her apart, and she had no way to enter death’s door.
She was an idea. A diminishing concept, and she screamed and screamed. But did not weep.
In that way, she and Fetohep were more alike than they would care to admit. Kasigna lay there, unable to even move for a while.
She did not know what became of Fetohep of Khelt or his kingdom after that. If she had any power to influence or see the world…she could do neither. Every scrap of her being was going into maintaining itself, and she had expended much of it just contacting and intercepting his dream.
The only reason Kasigna was still ‘alive’ was because of the faint faith flowing to her from Bethal Walchaís and her few followers and her pact with Archmage Eldavin. But neither had more than scraps of faith. She was fading away without her aspect of death. Soon, she’d be a spectre. A shadow, easily devoured, nameless, losing herself.
That undead king dared to damn himself and her. He…she was so bitter as she gathered her strength to at least picture herself sitting up. He thought he was her death knell. It was not him.
It was a death for a death, as it had always been. A fallen child. A Maiden’s choice. War with the Faerie King’s champion, the treachery of her daughter—
Kasigna knelt there for a moment.
Fetohep of Khelt was wrong. She had run out of almost every trick, every gambit, every shred of power and maneuver she could make, it was true. His had been a true last resort, a genuine offer. She would have even accepted an unequal partnership if he had truly intended to take her deal. But she was not out of options.
She had one…last one. But she had gone to Fetohep of Khelt first, because the last, last option was truly unpleasant. Nevertheless.
“I always live. Always. No matter how long it takes, no matter the indignity.”
Kasigna closed her eyes as she plucked something from the aether that she didn’t have the power for. But even here, it was watching her. Did Isthekenous’ invention gloat? Or did it regard her as just another piece in its endless game?
Either way, she took hold of the object and unfurled it. Kasigna, for the umpteenth time, read and re-read the object she had been given.
She did not like what she read. But slowly, with the trembling fingers of someone who reached for that final breaking blade of grass, she wrote on the glowing contract.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia was savoring Chandrar’s dry air far from her homeland when she cracked one eye open.
“What the—”
The unguarded statement had everyone on edge, but she held up a hand. Her general, her warriors—she spoke.
“Silence. Silence—everyone shut up and be absolutely silent.”
Something had activated in her head, but she pulled it out into reality. A contract, one of countless ones she had active. But even Nerrhavia pulled out some reading spectacles because…
“Tyrant?”
Someone whispered, because they’d recognized it too. Nerrhavia read.
She’d signed it. No, wait…the Immortal Tyrant saw a messy scrawl. She was invoking a negotiation clause.
The Goddess known as Kasigna does agree to the terms underlined in the contract, pending negotiation of one term. Namely, marriage to Puppetmaster General and appearances conditional upon…
When the Immortal Tyrant smiled, Maviola fled behind Falamizural, and even her most ardent subjects flinched. The smile warped the air, and even when Nerrhavia stepped away, a blotch on the very spot her face had been remained, terrifying all those who saw it.
She tapped her lips, then slowly wrote back, enunciating each word for her followers to hear.
“[Immediate Reply]. [Diabolical Negotiations: I Hold Every Advantage. Submit.] I do not accept any terms of renegotiation. [Penalty Clause: No One Negotiates With Me]. You will accept the terms of personal marriage to General Astival and adherence to his personal standards of bodily beauty and the penalty of a second forfeiture at my pleasure.”
She flicked the scroll back whence it had come with a smile. Everyone used the negotiation clause. No one thought she could punish them for it.
“Y-Your Immortal Majesty. What if she refuses?”
They were all whispering to her, fearful she might ruin the chances of—Nerrhavia turned to General Astival, who wore the most amusing expression she had ever seen on his face. Not that she ever looked at him.
“She will accept. The desperate have no other recourse.”
All she had to do was wait, and she did, savoring each second of knowing her victory, because it was sweeter for her subject’s uncertainty. When the contract did reappear, it appeared like someone had slashed a name upon the bottom, but there it was:
Kasigna, Goddess, Crone.
Nerrhavia held the scroll up for them to see. Astival stood there, poleaxed, and she smiled.
“When they retell my legends, those of you who were here, remember this moment. All that is possible in any land, I can achieve. Now, I believe…”
She conjured a quill of blood and dipped it in a pot of ink. Nerrhavia put her quill upon the waiting space for her mark and wrote.
‘Denied.’
She reached down, peeled something off the parchment, rolled the scroll up, then spoke.
“[Reject Contract: Explosive Words]. [Immediate Reply].”
She flicked the scroll, and it vanished. Nerrhavia was only disappointed she couldn’t see the results. She turned to Astival, whose mouth hung open like all of them.
Oh, how she laughed. Threw her head back and laughed and laughed.
Such joy had not come to her since, well, her previous life. Then the laughter ended. Nerrhavia turned away from them all, contemptuous.
“I shall indulge myself in small celebration. To forestall the foolish nattering—my enemies suffer and perish. This moment was worth setting up. Perhaps it was her very end.”
“But Your Majesty, it would have been glorious. The br—er, the potential of such a servant!”
General Astivan was now stricken with regrets. She shot him a look that pierced his chest, but she indulged him, because she supposed even he had his passions. She tsked.
“Astival, you are a fool unfitting the jester’s role in a true court of mine.”
He knelt instantly, pressing his head to the sand.
“Yes, Tyrant!”
“Yet I sense your doubts.”
“Never, Tyrant!”
“Shut up.”
He was silent. Nerrhavia lifted something between her fingers. And Astival peeked upwards as she smiled.
“Astival, what is this?”
The [Puppetmaster General] stared at whatever she was holding. It was thin, nigh on translucent, and it had a quality he suspected instantly to be magic or something only Nerrhavia could conjure. He rose, and she allowed him to peer at it.
“It…looks like…words, Your Majesty?”
Such a banal answer, but it was correct. Nerrhavia sighed as she held it out for him with both fingers.
“You just saw it.”
It took him another minute, then someone gasped, and Astival’s eyes widened. He recoiled, and Nerrhavia held up…
Kasigna. Goddess. Crone.
The dead goddess’ signature. Nerrhavia’s smile was very sweet.
“The ink and very stuff of the divine. What need have I of a mewling goddess I must nurture like some…thing that one nurtures to health if I have the stuff of her being? I must use this in a very fitting contract.”
So saying, she began to unknit the words, rendering it down into a substance she thought of much like ink. Of course, had she wanted to, she could have affixed the signature to a contract and forced Kasigna into it, but she was already worthless.
Which was more valuable? A treacherous, weakened goddess with no loyalty and too many variables, or the last lifeblood and her very essence scrawled upon the page, fit for use?
“Both would be amusing, but I owed Merindue that. To work.”
Nerrhavia began to walk onwards, but then she stopped, and glanced to the side, where she calculated an invisible camera might be, or the omniscient observer if one existed. Her best side, naturally. She spoke, with a hint of that smile playing on her lips, mischief from a mind without peer.
“I expect to regain a level from this moment. If not, I shall hold you to account, overseer of levels. Though, regardless, I shall be double-checking your accounting. We must be consistent, and fair. The rules should be equal, should they not? If they are designed to perfection, which I shall judge.”
She flicked her head back and smiled, archly, and yes.
Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, annoyed and possibly unsettled everything.
 
——
 
Then the world focused on Khelt as the premonition of [Kings] became an idea in the minds of observers, a story repeated on the news.
Rumor becoming fact by layers of repetition. Truth leaking from broken shards of pottery.
A breaking throne. Paradise falling, the gates unbarred by a Prophet reaching for god.
The streets filled with wailing people begging for a sleeping king.
A glowing, red-eyed vizir, who stood in the wreckage of a dream he had seen rise and now crumble within his lifetime.
He said only one thing to the Heir of Khelt, the woman who was unworthy of the throne and unworthy of the burden she was being handed. Vizir Hecrelunn’s voice was the gentlest he had spoken since the day he had lived countless thousands of years ago.
“There is but one tradition of Khelt you should continue, Heir of Khelta’s wishes. In the days when she breathed and lived, they still feared the return of Dragon’s wings. Hence, the bell they gifted us, that every nation across this world who took arms against them might hear it. When Khelt falls, ring the bells. That is how it is done for great nations. Once, a warning. Thrice, a call to arms. Eight times for great triumph or tragedy; ring it eight. And when it rings without end, look up.”
Then he floated out of the throne room, casting magic like a man trying to part the very desert itself by will alone.
 
——
 
They felt it. Not in some metaphorical way, but a very real, very tangible instinct. A sense allocated only to other monarchs. To those who held up the idea that was called ‘nations’, they had a sense of other nations. Beyond auras.
Something liminal, half-defined, not fully actualized in truth. Like many things, a possibility that some day might bloom into full existence. An unwalked path so few had even stepped down, thought up by the God of Games himself. Yet nevertheless, they felt it.
 
——
 
Sitting upon his throne in Avel, the King of Bows ate too much buttered popcorn. He was developing a bit of a paunch again, but every time he felt himself regaining weight, he ran a mile and shot a hundred arrows, and it rather worked. But he was a restless man, and so he did hover around the television too much. If he could not go to the New Lands, what else was there for him to do?
Rule? Good one, Minister of Defense. Oh, look what’s on the scrying orb!
He had been watching the news when an unusual piece of commentary from Nerrhavia’s Wonders appeared. Normally, King Itreimedes only watched it for the Horns of Hammerad or gladiatorial fights (or those rather alluring [Dancers], but he had to do that in private), but a strange segment had caught his attention.
“A what in Khelt? A [Prophet]?”
It didn’t sound like a regular thing. Wasn’t Khelt that place with the undead king? Horrible, outrageous, but rather funny—his neighbors in Noelictus didn’t like the idea of sentient undead, but King Itreimedes thought the fellow was nothing like regular undead or even normal Revenants.
He watched a broadcast summarizing recent events in Khelt, and the newscasters seemed as astonished as he. Some Prophet and ‘People of Lod’ or something—Itreimedes didn’t do details, but they had invaded Khelt. And Khelt had a bug problem. Mostly, it was surprising that anyone had passed Khelt’s borders, because, well, the undead.
Perhaps something was wrong. King Itreimedes stared at a few images of the border of Khelt. Flashes of light, recorded when people had seen some kind of attack spell raining down. He reached for another handful of popcorn, but he found, suddenly, he’d lost his appetite.
“Bah. I’ve got better things to be doing than watching some robed man shout about invisible rulers.”
He got up, grumbling, and rather to his court’s surprise, Itreimedes bade them bring him issues of the realm. He sat upon his throne, not really improving the state of things because he had to be told often why his decisions wouldn’t actually work or be the optimal choice, but Itreimedes sat there for hours, working.
He wasn’t hungry. His stomach hurt, and he waved away a snack, then dinner.
He could not say why.
 
——
 
Itreimedes was a different sort of [King] than most. He was lazy, inexperienced, and did not use his class nearly to the fullest.
What he sensed, from even a world’s remove, was felt far, far more strongly by an experienced man who had time to know himself and the weight of crowns.
King Nuvityn of Erribathe was at sea. He had been at sea for a long damn time, it felt, but travel was like that. He had no Skills to move anywhere quick because the King of Myths usually stayed in his domain, and the seas…
He’d heard all the excuses, and the [Captain] was doing his best, but they were off-course, and finding one’s bearings was difficult. Stormy skies meant no navigation by starlight, and his ships were warded against scrying, making their own position relatively invisible to themselves as well as enemies.
Even Magus Tserre claimed coordinates were not her great speciality, but she thought they were closing on Izril’s north, where he wanted to dock. First Landing, then south to Liscor. It felt like they should have arrived…but Nuvityn had time.
He had taken to sitting on the deck of his ship, observing birds, the sea, the moving of waves, all the things to delight eyes which had for centuries seen only Erribathe. But a great weight had settled upon him, and when one of his people worked up the courage to ask him why…
They sacrificed Vernoue, the Princess. He could see them pushing her out to ask him what they were too shy to. She bowed hurriedly.
“Your Majesty, does something ail you? If you require a tonic for seasickness or—a chat?”
He glanced at Prildor, Voreca, Miihey, Andromeda, all of whom ducked behind one of the cabins like children. Perhaps it was his pensive face. He gestured to his seat as he stood.
“No seasickness, I am pleased to note. Nor does anything ail me, but a chat may do. Sit with me, Princess. Tell me. Do you feel it too?”
She would not take a seat until one was hurried out, then she sat, peering into the distance and at him.
“I…I don’t believe I do, Your Majesty. Is it some great aura? Are we passing near some wreck, or is it the Five Families?”
He grimaced, shaking his head.
“I swear I felt them a while back—nothing now. It makes me feel like we’re going the wrong way, but I know better than to argue with our [Captain]. No. It does not surprise me you don’t feel it. This is a thing of monarchs. Those who sit on the throne. It is distant. I am surprised I feel it, but the place is old. So old. I had not realized it. We call them enemies, and I think we sent…perhaps my Kingdom of Myths did not. I don’t know. All I know is that it’s crumbling.”
His speech was nonsensical, and Vernoue tried to decode it.
“Another nation, Your Majesty? The Drakes?”
“Too close at hand. Further. I see…”
He closed his eyes.
“I see a throne of bones. A horrid sight, or it should be. Yet it is not. There are no screaming skulls, no yellowed bones. Just gold. Riches beyond measure and hands, limbs, joined together. Something made of its people—monstrous for it is built of them and upon their backs. But what nation is not? The throne looms over them, yet it is so humble. It is a shelter from the rain, a warden of each and every soul. Shield, sword, servant. I have never seen the like. And now…it is breaking.”
Her eyes were wide, but she breathed with that insight that was her heritage.
“You must mean Khelt, Your Majesty. Is something wrong with it?”
“Yes. It stands upon a precipice.”
He knew it in his marrow. What the nature of the threat was, he could not say. Only that he had sensed it.
“It is a great nation, an old one, Vernoue. It may be wrong to say, but the nations Ailendamus broke were not so…notable to me. Perhaps it was because I was careless. But most that Ailendamus and Taimaguros defeated were younger or failing already. This? This is like one of the oldest of thrones vanishing. And there are so few who made it this far. Sometimes, I dream of them. Shattered thrones. Kingdoms broken, some glorious, some mad.”
This was the power of [Kings], for the little good it did. It served the purpose of making his subjects and the young [Princess] wide-eyed, so Nuvityn supposed it was a fine power after all.
Even so, the King of Myths just sighed.
“He is an ally of my one true enemy in this world. But I cannot celebrate this. For look.”
He pointed, with a flair for the dramatic, and thought Vernoue almost saw it a moment. Nuvityn bitterly let his eyes see that lonely land.
“If his nation was so wretched, pitiful, and evil—why does the throne stand untarnished? It has its grime, its flaws—show me a nation that does not. But it shines.”
“And it’s breaking?”
“Yes. It may not break completely, but…”
Nuvityn listened. He closed his eyes and heard gold cracking. Never to be repaired.
 
——
 
Many might sense it. The King of Destruction may turn, on a whim, and call for Trey, like a warhound scenting an unexpected skirmish. Or the Empress of Tiqr might halt in her battles to reclaim her kingdom and feel as though carrion vultures were circling.
But a person who sensed it who was not a [King] was the humble [Witch].
Wiskeria. She stood in that world of rusted laws and ancient thrones. It seemed not so grand to her. But that was perhaps because she was a [Witch of Laws], not someone who admired thrones.
She stood in this place, which was a power the likes of which even her mother might not know of. This pleased Wiskeria, though it unsettled the other [Witches] when Wiskeria claimed to be able to actually step here. Someone had asked if that was a metaphor, a simile.
“What good [Witch] cannot step into the pages of a story?”
—Though that was definitely old magic. Absently, Wiskeria tugged at one of her legs; it had gotten stuck. She gave up, and it unwound as she hopped, one-legged, across the rusty ground filled with dripping water.
She wondered if she could steal something from the broken thrones. Or even an ‘intact’ one. It probably had consequences. Weigh them, choose the ones you could live with, or make someone else pay the costs. It was dangerous, but her mother had millenia on her. Matching her in any way required risk.
…But not, perhaps, taking from this throne. It was probably an ally in the grand scheme of things. Wiskeria peered at the broken gold and the crack running down the length of it.
“You are dying. Something is breaking beyond repair, forever. It was already broken. Now, what? Perception? A crown is only a crown so long as it shines upon your head and all believe in it. If a half-Elf steals it, does it matter so much?”
A fragment of gold flaked away as Wiskeria watched, falling into the rust-covered waters that were all that remained of this place. Broken laws…yes. She whispered.
“What is a law if it cannot be enforced? Your dead are gone. Flailing…sinking. Crumbling, breaking. You are dying. Sleep now and fall to pieces gently. Do not rot, beautiful Khelt. Fall, and become pieces still etched with gold so that someone may take them and forge the next law and crown anew.”
She rested one hand on the golden throne as it shuddered, as if feeling her words. Then, gently, like one of [Mercy’s Healers] closing the eyes of a patient, she drew a knife and put one knee upon the throne. Reaching out towards the crack, ready to thrust and widen the gyre and break it ap—
 
——
 
The explosion blew out every window in the neighborhood, and when Briganda rushed onto the scene with Alevica, members of the army, and pinpointed the epicenter of the blast, they found Wiskeria lying on her back.
Her robes, made by Belavierr herself, had kept her alive, but golden flecks fell off the cloth as she stood. Wiskeria stared at her tattered robes as her clothing—the clothing her mother had made—revealed places where gold had replaced cloth.
The explosion had nearly ripped her right leg off her body. It was broken in three places. She hopped around on it as Briganda stared in horror then began shouting for a [Healer]. Wiskeria glanced down at her dagger—the charred stump of it was melting onto her fingers.
“Well, maybe not just yet. That was an unpleasant lesson. Could someone send for Witch Eloise? I have a shard of pottery sticking out of the back of my head. Why pottery instead of gold or bone? I think it missed my brain.”
Then she fell forwards onto her face.
 
——
 
Paradise lost. Or being lost. Armies marching.
It was such a foreign, strange land, this Chandrar. The fate of entire nations was shifting about, and it seemed like it was all too vast and far-away. Pictures in a storybook or scrying orb.
Far beyond the deeds of mere men and women to alter, surely. Regular people were but ants caught up in a whirlwind of fate and other people’s stories.
But that was the thing about ants. They were only as small as they thought they were. Sometimes, mere ants rose to be…important. In their own little ways.
The first thing he said, as they stood at the prow of the ship, sails blowing wide behind them, was:
“Dry. The air tastes drier here.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened and closed, and he felt the wind coming off the coast blowing in his face as Yellow Splatters turned. The [Captain] of the Painted Antinium nodded once as Purple Smile rubbed at his chin.
“I have heard it is also sandy. I hope taking my vacation was worth the trip. It is using all my vacation days for the year.”
“We sacrifice much in the name of helping friends, Yellow Splatters. We shall commend your valiant efforts in prayer tonight.”
The crew of the ship listened to the Antinium speaking with a wide-eyed and wary reserve, even after their time on board the ship. But the Courier’s ship, the Four Winds of Teral, had been paid exorbitant fees for this trip, and now…Pawn’s head craned to see, but he knew Khelt was far inland.
“I am told a second ship is meeting us.”
“It is land, though. Unless a river runs to this paradise?”
“Apparently, this ship runs on land.”
The other Painted Antinium turned to Pawn, and after a moment, one nodded wisely.
“Aha. Then Anand truly was visionary. Landships.”
It made sense to them. None of the crew really had the heart to correct the Antinium. Rabbitears, Starfold, Salted Pork, π, a small band who was answering the call of a foreign king.
It wasn’t like they had anything better to do.
And yes, surely there were consequences, but as Pawn had observed, there always were; even if you just tried to live your life without bothering anyone, they were sneaking up behind you to hit you with something just for existing. So you might as well do what you wanted.
That sounded pretty good, actually, so he flipped open a page of his journal and wrote it down in case it would become part of his holy work, The Wondrous Sky (title in progress). Some Antinium had suggested it should be called the Book of Erin, but he wasn’t sure if it was appropriate.
He’d brought a copy for Fetohep and autographed it just in case he could sneak it into Khelt’s library. However—Pawn glanced at the scrying orb.
“It sounds like Khelt is in more trouble than we thought.”
“Maybe we should have brought all the Painted Antinium. Eighty of us will not be able to fight effectively, Pawn.”
Yellow Splatters was worried, but Pawn just clacked his mandibles absently.
“A thousand of us would be too hard to transport. Faith moves mountains. We’ll have to squash most of our enemies with that. We shall be strategic. Be ready, everyone.”
He kept staring just to the right, not quite at the harbor of one of Medain’s cities or the coast the other Antinium were admiring. A few of the other Painted Antinium were following Pawn’s gaze, though the crew could not see anything…Pawn touched the dangling censer at his side, then the simple wooden club he carried, and the air hung unnaturally around him.
“I sense a great work ahead of us. Thousands of tiny little…insects. Joining together to create some vast bug. Which I realize is not a flattering image to non-Antinium, but it seems beautiful to me. What do you see?”
The other Antinium murmured.
“I see nothing.”
“Nor I.”
“I think someone farted.”
“It is wrathful. An angry light. A gateway to…”
Pawn glanced at one of the [Priests] who spoke, then nodded. Another whispered.
“I see gates. They shift in my mind, but they are shiny. Pearly, and they hold a land that does not look like what I believe Heaven to be like. It is beautiful and locked.”
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] peered again, and then nodded again. He adjusted his robes, took hold of his book, club, and censer in his hands, and grasped the railing with his fourth hand.
“Yes. So that’s what the kingdom of heaven looks like. Let’s break those gates open. They may have their version of heaven. But not paradise.”

10.58 FP (2026-03-07)

The Prophet was raving, possibly mad. Marrieh and the closest of his acolytes kept all away from him after the assassination attempts, but the poison still coursed through his body despite their laying of hands. From six attempts on his life. Poison in his drink, daggers, arrow—he was mutilated by the damned assassins, lying and screaming for God’s mercy. Martyred just as his people. Praying.
Pain, fury for the dead, all drained him of grace and forgiveness. There was only the altar. The sacrament.
“Higher! It must be twenty-four feet high and filled with the faith of…of…”
So they toiled. Thousands of hands heaping the riches of Khelt upon this altar. Not for themselves, but as an offering to God. That he might hear and smite the King of Khelt for his transgressions against the faithful.
And lo, now, the people of Khelt who had slept ignorant did lament and tear their clothing and wail as they knew the true fury of the Prophet of God. It had been a month delayed, almost like some curse of ignorance, but now they screamed and fled and prayed to their [King], who had no power to stop this divine vengeance.
The eyes of foreign nations fell upon Khelt as it faltered, struck by this holy tumor from within, and paradise trembled.
All this was so. And yet, as Harvey lay writhing from the contact poison the Quarass of Germina had inflicted upon him, which refused to stop burning him no matter how much he scraped at his skin, still remembering the daggers which had pierced his flesh, his very heart, until the Lord had saved him to complete his great work, his eyes opened.
Blind, sweat pouring into them, he turned, and the praying people adding their faith to the [Light of Faith] which hovered like a golden sun above their sacrament, nearly finished. Marrieh rose from her prayer, and Jilthread ceased in making a brick for the sacrament, bedazzled in jewels torn from Kheltian ornaments.
They followed his eyes, the most faithful, and the Prophet stared north.
“Who…what…what is that? Is that you, G—?”
He hesitated. For it was like no thing he had ever felt. Something foreign to the faith within him, which waned and waxed like any mortal man who doubted.
Something he would have called truly divine, proof beyond doubt, even more than Miracles, and yet…it was not of him. It was not the Word, the Bible, the Truth, or the Way.
It was strange.
Like…a vision. A building upon a grassy hill, windows glowing. A merry fire. A plate of spaghetti and a blue smoothie?
“What?”
Harvey’s fingers stopped scratching his reddened skin as he stared, and then the vision showed him a sky glowing with more beauty than he remembered. As if a child had seen it for the first time. It drew closer, step by step, hour by hour, and then he realized it was coming here. A procession, another faith.
Rumors and the People of God soon confirmed this truth. Enemies summoned by the King of Khelt. Dread Antinium of Izril, no less, bug-people. One last trial before the foe was defeated, yes, this Harvey knew.
And yet…he looked at it again and again, and a treacherous part of him could not help but think, ‘oh. But oh. It is such a gentle, kindly thing’.
Surely, the Snake of Eden had seemed thus.
 
——
 
The Painted Antinium of the Free Hive were ready for hostility. Violence. Even being spat upon, which Ksmvr had assured them was a regrettably common experience, especially around camels.
They knew what they were: Antinium. The scourge of Izril, the Black Tide. They struck fear into all people, even their own city. That they came was for two reasons.
Firstly, they owed Khelt and Fetohep a debt beyond words. He had spent and spent again in service of the inn, of their allies and friends and loved ones. If eighty of them had to spend blood and lives and comfort in honor of that debt, they would. They had so few friends. They would not easily lose another.
Second, they really, really wanted to see what Khelt looked like.
That was enough for Antinium to take a voyage at sea all the way from their continent. Oh, and if you wanted a third reason, it was because it wasn’t really that fun back at the inn anymore. They were a subsect of the Free Antinium and not as welcome in the inn as before thanks to Lyonette the Breakup Princess, and that business with the [Palace of Fates], which none of them had been part of, yet made it awkward.
They had free time. So they came to Chandrar’s shores, prepared to be hurt or even killed in the name of doing what was right.
This was holy. What the Painted Antinium had not realized was how they came to the nations of the north, then Khelt.
They did not land in Medain; the Four Winds of Teral, the Courier ship, had been alerted that Medain had just closed its borders to any Kheltian-aligned travellers or caravans, and their forces at New Jecrass’ border had tripled overnight.
They were forced to divert slightly westwards towards the Claiven Earth.
“Riskier than I want. My charter is to bring you safely to Chandrar’s soils, sirs.”
The [Captain] was a Garuda-Human hybrid, resembling a woman with feathers that covered parts of her face, framing her features, and clinging to her arms. She would never fly, and nor was she some swashbuckling warrior-captain despite her beautiful coat and plumage. What she was, most of all, was solid, trusted.
The Four Winds was owned by the crew, you see, and they voted on the [Captains]. The woman took her job seriously, and Pawn smiled at her. The port beyond was filled with graceful half-Elven ships docked at the stone pier.
Stone—because of course, half-Elves valued wood too much to make wooden docks. There was a crowd gathered, and Yellow Splatters was advising the others to not react when spit upon. Pawn nodded to the woman.
“You have brought us to Chandrar indeed, Captain. We have another ship coming for us; we shall make our way to that or go on foot. What more can we ask of you? You have brought us through the storms and across this terrible…water…without incident.”
Captain Bressa eyed Pawn.
“You mean the rain shower?”
“Yes, the horrible storm.”
There were chuckles from listening members of the crew, though they were quiet and mostly kept their distance from the Antinium.
It wasn’t actually that much fear, so much as politics. The Four Winds was well aware of what it might be doing, and so the crew had been told to keep back from the Antinium as they disembarked. They were doing their job as a Courier ship; they took almost all cargo, and so long as people remembered that, all would be well.
With that said, their guests had been amusing. Terrifying at first, but…despite the short voyage, the crew had warmed to the Antinium far more than the Black Tide’s reputation might lead one to believe.
Part of that was the sight of Antinium on television and figures like Ksmvr of Chandrar or Garry the Baker. But the larger part was, um…water.
The Painted Antinium were brave, knowing that Heaven awaited if they drowned at sea, but the terror of the oceans still applied to them. Many had freaked out even getting on the ship, and their solution to their fear was to never get near a railing and pretend the water was just differently-colored land.
They stayed below-decks, but the squall had caused…issues. So half the crew had found themselves with a new duty: holding one of the Painted Antinium’s hands when the ship rocked or escorting them to the bathrooms or around the deck if they wanted to walk around. Holding a shaking Antinium’s hand and patting them on the shoulders took a lot of fear out of the equation, and Pawn was only sad he could not reward the Four Wind’s crew more. But he had cured quite a number of minor ailments and scars, so he felt good about that.
Captain Bressa certainly seemed to have some goodwill towards Pawn as well, because she laughed as she swept a feathered arm out, indicating the swiftly-approaching shoreline.
“Hah. If that was a storm to you, then I’m lucky we didn’t hit a real squall. But I’ll see you onto the docks and speak with the [Harbormaster] and maybe even one of the Tree Guides—their version of a magistrate. Passage through the Claiven Earth might be tricky.”
“Especially for Antinium, we understand. We are prepared to run.”
“Oh, no. We can find carriages for your company. It’s just—let me go first, sir.”
They seemed to be speaking crossways at each other, but this was something Pawn was quite used to. He stepped to the boarding ramp as the woman strode down.
“Quite a large crowd, Yellow Splatters.”
“If they attack, run ahead of us, Pawn.”
“If they attack, they will shoot us dead with their bows. Or is that racism? The Elves in the movies are very good with bows. They could all be mages like Ceria. I will use my capstone, and we will flee towards…well, Medain is dangerous. So we go west. That way, I think.”
All the Antinium glanced at Pawn’s finger pointing vaguely opposite of the rising sun. They nodded. A few of them were praying, and the [Captain] was speaking urgently with an important-looking half-Elf with a staff. There were even children on the docks, but mostly, adults staring at the Antinium. Pawn squared his shoulders.
“Remember, we are going to render what aid we can to King Fetohep. If ten of us make it…be wary of camels. There are children in the crowd, so do not fight back.”
He stepped onto the gangplank and began to walk down, despite Yellow Splatters trying to go first. Pawn was waiting for the first thrown cabbage, stone, or spell. He hoped it wasn’t arrows. He hated being shot.
The half-Elves of the Claiven Earth didn’t attack him. They did draw back in a wave and point as he came striding down, and Pawn walked to the [Captain], who might have been waving him back. But they had to go; time was running out for Khelt.
Pawn saw wide eyes, some glowing with magic. Pointed ears waggling. A child with tanned skin blinking at him, mouth open. Teeth with a bit of lettuce stuck in them in lips curving upwards, and he smiled.
They had made it twenty paces onto the docks when one of their number, Purple Smile, glanced around and hand-signed.
“[I don’t think we’re being attacked. What’s wrong with them?]”
Pawn glanced around and scratched at his chest. Then he waved an urgent hand.
“Argh. Rabbitears, Starfold, you fools! You didn’t deactivate your miracles! We’re going to be killed—stop it!”
The two Painted Antinium jumped, and Pawn realized they’d completely forgotten to de-activate their personal Miracles. Sure enough, the two members who were among the oldest of the Painted Antinium had their personal sigils hovering around them, or trailing after Starfold.
In Rabbitears’ case, it was just two bright white ‘ears’ that hovered just above his head, twitching and moving in-sync with his antenna. They were very cute, though he thought they were distinguished.
As for Starfold, he had far more paint on his carapace than Rabbitears’ simple, painted white antennae. He had favored himself with stars of bright silver and more recently other colors, most in that classic five-pointed star pattern. Where he walked, the beautiful painted stars seemed to flake off his armored carapace.
They hovered behind him, a constellation of glowing lights wherever he walked. Very pretty, sort of annoying if you were right behind him and kept having them bounce off your head, but obviously utterly inappropriate now.
And, Pawn realized, some of the other Painted Antinium had other objects of their faith he’d forgotten to get them to stow. He didn’t know them all, these days; he’d gathered up everyone who was available and run with Salamani to get to a coast. But the ones who were with him?
There was Cappy, who had a beanie made by Honored Deskie herself, the most comfortable Antinium-hat in the entire world. He carried their flag, adorned with the painted sigils of all eighty Antinium resolved to come to Khelt’s defense. It blew in a wind that another of them was conjuring.
Windchild, a Painted Worker, was responsible for that and a stream of bubbles they were blowing from a little wooden hoop with their Skill, [Create Bubble Liquid]. They should not be playing with that, but it was free, and ahead of them, Yellow Splatters was walking, his scarred carapace and the splashes of yellow on his very carapace, looking tough and even slightly sinister with the weight of his sins. Pawn still felt that was unfair, but Purple Smile was next to him, his painted body provoking smiles from the crowd.
[Paint Sigil: Smile of Friendship]. The paint on his body seemed to shift, until you saw smiles on his very form, unseen faces welcoming you. Another worthless Skill for pure military anything. Plus, Drakes hated it, especially ones from Pallass. Pawn was hissing at them to knock it off when Yellow Splatters hand-signed back.
“[Your censer, Pawn!]”
Pawn looked down and groaned.
“Ah, poos.”
His censer was the same one he had made when the Painted Antinium had first been formed. Only, then it had been two colanders stuck together. Now, it was reforged by Pelt, and the master-smith had claimed the metals had transmuted.
The result was a vivid, brassy metal and a delicate bell-like censer hanging from a chain of the same stuff, which shone as it caught the light. An item of faith; it was lit and drifting pale brown smoke out of the openings.
Pawn barely paid attention to that. The censer was almost always lit; he just had to insert a coal and it would burn all day. The smoke waved over his company, and it smelled, of course, like cinnamon.
That was how the Claiven Earth met their first Antinium. A group of eighty-some Workers and Soldiers striding off the gangplank of their ship, wreathed in colors, the scent of cinnamon, and the smoke blowing off their bodies.
They might have seemed naked, but for the loincloths they wore, Pawn’s robes, or the cloak that Superguy had on, which was blowing in the faint breeze that swept after them. And then one of them, an Antinium that Pawn didn’t know, clasped their hands in prayer.
“[Beautiful Stroll: The Parade of Seasons].”
“No, no, stop alarming them! Argh!”
Too late. Pawn saw the half-Elves recoil, and then the first leaves began falling down. He sighed.
He’d seen this Skill before. It was a Painted Antinium special; even if this one was more advanced, he glanced up, and autumnal leaves showered down, as if blown from the trees on high, which were the tallest he had ever seen, way higher than Liscor’s biggest buildings.
Massive trees that were as large as redwoods of Earth, but not always in that style. Some with golden leaves which now showered down; not the actual leaves, but copies. Even blossoms of cherry trees and flower petals, pollen floating around the Antinium who halted, for a moment.
Loving this snapshot of the world. For that was what the Painted Antinium craved. More than strength at arms. More than magic.
Just wonders. They had never forgotten that. Their steps trailed slower as they caught leaves, and Bookleaf caught one and pressed it in his book—Pawn sighed. He turned to the staring half-Elves, glumly, and muttered to Yellow Splatters.
“Great. Not only have we alarmed them, but we’ve conjured leaves from their trees. That’s probably a capital crime. I suggest we pray for salvation and run like heck as soon as they attack. For salvation is in Heaven and also a fast pair of legs. Amen.”
“Amen.”
Some of the Antinium chorused while others used their personal aphorisms.
“So mote it be.”
“Yes.”
“I’m hungry.”
Resigned, Pawn saw the half-Elves listening to him, ears still twitching, and then one of the children laughed. And he realized—the smiles on some of the children’s faces had spread to a few of the adults. They were not, in fact, reaching for weapons. Even the [Warriors] appeared bemused rather than angry. One took a hand off a shortsword’s hilt as she stared at Bookleaf.
The Painted Antinium slowed, and Pawn nearly ran into the Tree Guide, who turned to him.
“This is shocking, Captain. Antinium in Chandrar? Passing through our lands to Khelt? And who is this? I am Tree Guide Raliavordures of Port Linven.”
Pawn bowed.
“I am Pawn of the Free Antinium, Lady Guide. I apologize for our trespass, and we shall be out of the Claiven Earth as soon as we are able.”
“Yes, but…without even visiting the capital? The Speaker of Trees wishes to at least meet with the Antinium!”
“Huh?”
The woman was standing on her tip-toes and glancing around at the half-Elves, who, Pawn finally realized, were excited, not afraid. He didn’t get why until she whispered to him.
“Antinium in Chandrar is, of course, politically fraught, I would imagine. But someone else can sort that out. Is Santa Garry here? Or Ksmvr of Chandrar? I have an autograph card…”
Oh. Garry. Pawn’s mandibles opened, and he looked at Yellow Splatters, who stopped tensing for an arrow, and turned to Purple Smile.
The Soldier was already smiling, and he hand-signed back.
“It appears the half-Elves of the Claiven Earth are much like Captain Ceria Springwalker after all.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened. He turned back to the Tree Guide and bowed.
“Oh. That…makes sense. I apologize, Guide Raliavo—Raliadurvo—Guide Ralia. I had anticipated strife or fear. But your welcome is most gracious, and we will of course meet with the Speaker of Trees if he requests it. Thank you. Your hospitality and good nature reminds me much of a half-Elf I know, Ceria Springwalker. The Ice Squirrel of the Horns of Hammerad, I believe?”
Raliavordures’ mouth opened. She gasped, then slapped Pawn and instantly apologized, but in hindsight, he felt like he had deserved that one.
Thus, they came to Chandrar.
 
——
 
People actually liked them. Or if not liked, they found the Antinium exotic where Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans of Izril saw them as threats.
It was surreal and stunning to the Painted Antinium, but part of their attraction was their unique Skills and faith-based Miracles.
It wasn’t like they were exactly, uh, shy about it. Pawn wondered if he should be, but when he handed the Speaker of Trees twenty Scrolls of Healing, the half-Elf nearly jumped off the railing of the tree-city.
Actually, it was making Pawn slightly queasy to be so high up. The Speaker of Trees’ mouth opened and closed as the Herald of Forests peered at the objects he held.
“These scrolls heal, Priest Pawn? Truly?”
“Yes. They are being sold from Liscor, but I do not know how widely. I believed knowledge of them was spreading, but perhaps not? I was told some of the ‘clients’ who bought from Free Antinium were among the Five Families of the north, and the Walled Cities, of course, tried to steal them.”
…But perhaps no one had actually focused on the scrolls, or at least, regular citizens didn’t know what the wealthy and powerful did. Pawn wasn’t advertising them.
“Oh, wasn’t that the entertaining chase on the scrying orb? With that Watch Captain! And the Drake, Moass?”
One of the half-Elves had seen the broadcast, and the Speaker of Trees had seen it too.
“This is what was stolen? I believed it was toys and other objects. The Watch Captain was screaming at the Drake for a doll. Quite entertaining. Do you…know her? You come from the same city as she does, don’t you? Liscor, so far away.”
They really were far from home. Everyone was staring at a map which didn’t even have Liscor on it, and Pawn was nodding.
“Yes, these scrolls were among what were stolen. They heal most wounds, but serious ones require multiple scrolls or I could heal them. In fact, if you had any injuries, I would be happy to use my Skill. We must be moving, but I have [Cure Mundane Wounds].”
This time, he thought the Herald of the Forest developed a crick in her neck from how fast it snapped around.
“Cure…how all-encompassing is that Skill?”
“It is not perfect, of course, but most wounds not magically created are healable.”
The Herald nodded, relaxing after a second; she’d been checking out Yellow Splatters like a warrior, sizing up his lack of weapons, and eying Pawn’s club. The [Priest] went on.
“I was most distressed about its inability to heal longstanding wounds and, of course, more advanced damage. I prayed on the issue, and though I did not gain the ability to heal more serious injuries, I did obtain [Miracle: Purify Wounds] after the Winter Solstice. It could not have saved some of my friends and companions. However, it did assist in the recovery of many. Even Perorn Fleethoof benefited from it, though she still appears to limp. I think she is feigning that, though.”
This time, all the half-Elves gathered around the Painted Antinium had to take a moment to process this. Only the Mage of Rivers, Joreldyn, wore an expression of utmost concentration as he noted this down. He didn’t do the ‘is this a joke’ bit. He just seized a scroll from the Speaker of Trees, tucked it into his bag of holding, and spoke.
“We shall reach out to Liscor as soon as we verify the effects of these scrolls, Priest. May we offer some of your people our hospitality indefinitely? You claim quite a number of powers, and I, personally, would be honored to witness them. Here, a token of our own appreciation for this meeting.”
He handed Pawn a scroll, which turned out to be a Scroll of Tidal Waves, and then added a Scroll of Water Wall, a Scroll of Cleansing, and a Scroll of Rainfall, which Pawn had the distinct impression was all that Joreldyn had on him.
But the [Priest] was smiling. When he agreed and asked for a volunteer, Ierwyn herself thrust out an arm. He noted deep scars on her arm and sensed more when he whispered a prayer.
“[Purify Wounds]. Ah. I’m sorry.”
The Speaker of Trees had been reaching out to halt this, but Pawn and Ierwyn were too fast. The half-Elf appeared vaguely disappointed.
“Oh, it failed? Perhaps it only works on Antinium or there’s not enough magic around…?”
Pawn shook his head as Ierwyn flexed her arm, the most curious expression on her face.
“No, it worked, but her injuries were too deep. Your arm, stomach, and left leg? I think it might take as many as three more uses of the Skill to remove the damage. It cannot regrow amputated digits either.”
He addressed Ierwyn, and she nodded slowly.
“I fought a Tundra Draugr that cut my arm open. It never healed perfectly, even with healing potions. My right arm was always weaker after that. But this…”
She flexed her right hand, then cast around. Ierwyn wandered over to a safety railing, put her hands on it, and seemed to test her strength. The woman, who wore her sword on her left side, Pawn noted, ripped a piece of the enchanted guardrails out with her right hand. She stared at the wood as the half-Elves cried out.
“Herald, the railings!”
“What strength—”
“The woodwork! How many trees do you want to kill to repair that, Herald? For shame!”
Pawn beamed in pleasure as Ierwyn dropped the piece, then turned to the Speaker wordlessly. He indicated the stairs.
“I would be delighted to use the Skill again if our return trip takes us this way, but we must be going. We are bound for Khelt, and I believe a ship is waiting to pick us up. Thank you!”
He was hurrying down the stairs when they almost jumped on him. So, Pawn realized, his problem wasn’t in being attacked…
It was all these people trying to stop him or get him to stick around! What a quandary! He’d almost have preferred the arrows. He had no idea why the Painted Antinium were that compelling. Sure, they had nice paint and a few good Skills, but these other people lived in such magnificent kingdoms.
 
——
 
Pawn’s group took losses on the way to Khelt. It was inevitable, and he stressed the wastage of time too; it had taken far, far too long to cross Izril and get to a harbor, and then the voyage at sea to get to Khelt. He sacrificed Painted Antinium to get to Khelt faster. Even with the curious undead ship Sand at Sea, it had to be done.
The undead were actually quite cordial and colorful, but clearly wary of the Painted Antinium. Apparently, it was because they resembled this ‘Prophet’ and his people so much.
“No offense to your crew, Priest, but we’d rather not be ashed by your lot on accident.”
“Ashed? Ah, our powers of faith. It is a universal gift, then, if the People of God have similar abilities to ours.”
The undead Revenant grunted.
“I’m not keen to find out if there’s nuance between your powers, but aye, the intruders have weapons that cut like they’re all enchanted by [Bane] against undead. Stay wary of them. They’re less-effective against the living, but they fought off two regular forces. Not the finest sellswords I’ve seen, but they can fight, and there’s thousands of ‘em. How’re you gonna handle them?”
“I shall pray on it, Captain. But what else is going on in Khelt we might help with?”
Captain Cikroleth had caught Pawn up to current events. He claimed Fetohep wasn’t responding to speaking stones, which sounded bad…but a ‘Vizir’ had come to Khelt’s aid, and that the Heir, Pewerthe, was taking command. Pawn didn’t know what to do about Khelt’s issues, but he listened.
“Lots of nations are making unfriendly moves at Khelt. Sending out groups to test the borders, like. Most’re too far away, and the skeletons will rise, and they’ll do for your average fools. The rest? The Vizir’s scorched three groups, and we’ve run off more, but it’s like sharks circling a carcass. The main threat is the panic in the cities. Kheltians are in uproar over the skeletons—and the lack of manpower. If you could deal with the Prophet, that’d be one less issue.”
“Why is manpower an issue? Panic I can understand.”
The [Captain] snorted.
“Those skeletons did everything for Khelt, Priest. You’ve never seen the paradise in person, have you?”
“A few television broadcasts showed Khelt…but I didn’t watch them, no.”
The man nodded as he rubbed at some sand which had gotten into an eye socket.
“Then could you take out some trash from a bin and toss it?”
“…Yes? That is a common job for Antinium.”
“Clean sewers? Pah, that’s too much. Can you sweep a floor? Build a chair? Cook a meal for someone?”
“All but the last. Ah, I think I understand…”
Captain Cikroleth made a spitting sound over the edge of his ship as the sands billowed away from them.
“Some Kheltians can do a bit of that, fancy cooking, or building art in furniture, but most? Trash is piling up in the cities. Which leads to more bugs. Pewerthe kept a lid on it, literally. Hah, there’s a Heir of Khelt who did her job. But now…”
They can’t even throw out the trash? Yellow Splatters shrugged, but all the Painted Workers looked astounded. The Painted Soldiers…didn’t do that kind of work. Which led to some verbal and non-verbal arguments between Workers and Soldiers. Then poking.
The undead were watching the mild confrontation amongst the Painted Antinium when there was a shout.
“Hoi! Someone’s coming at us from the side! Fast too! It’s that Drathian!”
“Damnit. Hard to port. No one catches us!”
Cikroleth roared, but Pawn saw the streak of movement coming at them insanely fast given their speed and sighed.
“Another casualty of our travel. I need a volunteer.”
Heads turned, then a brave Soldier stepped forwards and clasped a fist to his chest. Pawn nodded to him, and they lost another of their number.
 
——
 
“Ship, halt!”
Orthenon, the King of Destruction’s Steward, was riding at the ship at full-gallop, and when it did not halt, he accelerated. He spoke, standing in the saddle to roar at the deck.
“His Majesty, King Flos of Reim, requests the company of one of the Antinium of Izril! He wishes to meet with—”
The [Steward] was prepared for trouble, especially since Flos had told him to get the Antinium no matter what. He was surprised that the notoriously prideful Kheltian warship actually slowed and a gangplank lowered. Orthenon was riding towards it when someone, an Antinium, shouted from the side.
“Excuse us, we are very busy and heading towards Khelt! Please accept our apologies! Go, Salted Pork!”
A single Antinium Soldier came skidding down the ramp on his back-shell. He nearly took out one of the [Riders] behind Orthenon as they swerved around the Antinium. Salted Pork spun around on his back before getting up as Sand at Sea accelerated, and Orthenon stared down at the Antinium Soldier.
“Hello. I am Salted Pork. Have you heard the good word?”
The Steward actually leaned over his saddle, genuinely flummoxed for a moment. And Pawn’s company moved on.
 
——
 
Another Antinium down. Pawn prayed for them, because it was a hard thing to be alone in a foreign land. Possibly not dangerous given how friendly everyone was…but the undead had promised to pick them up.
The Claiven Earth hadn’t let go of Pawn’s company until he’d tasked six Antinium, including one of his [Priests], to stay and explain what they were. The same for other nations; a rather terrifying giant of a man, big as Moore, had come running after them and only stopped when they’d given him two Antinium. That had been Mighty Jaganismet, apparently.
An Antinium in Hellios for the Gnolls, because they’d been begging to know of home, another five to the Quarass…at least the [Steward] had only taken a single Soldier.
What was surreal to the Painted Antinium was that this was not how they got treated in Izril. They were ignored in Izril! No one cared about their powers!
Here? You had half-Elves lining up to be healed when plenty of Liscorians, young and old, hadn’t even wanted to hear about Pawn’s Skills, so he’d given up asking. It was rather gratifying, really. Pawn went back to the other Painted Antinium, who were sitting around as Rad Rema cooked for the first time since her death.
“Right, I reckon this is a half-decent fruit gumbo. Damn half-Elves. If it’s not, can’t be worse than the slop you lot eat!”
The Antinium were eating greedily; they’d been given tons of gifts from each nation. Pawn was about to try some gumbo, but he kept glancing to the side.
“It truly is a giant desert. Huh. I sort of like it.”
The heat sucked, of course. The Antinium would bake in the sun or freeze at night, but if you had a sand-cloak like the ones Jaganismet had gifted them, you were shaded and warm enough. And there was no damn rain, no water everywhere.
And no Drakes. It really was something not to have someone stare at you as if you were going to attack them, or as if they were plotting your imminent demise. Pawn touched his heart.
“Perhaps this is where we should have gone, not Izril. I suppose the Antinium who were sailing across the world didn’t know where to go. If not Izril…Terandria’s nice, or so I hear. Baleros? Lots of tasty bugs. Maybe we went to the worst continent.”
Then again, he’d heard Chandrar had tons of problems of their own, and Fetohep’s woes were certainly big ones. It was Captain Cikroleth who called out.
“We’re soon passing into Kheltian lands! I don’t know where His Majesty wants you, so we’ll take you to the capital, got it?”
Pawn’s head turned. All he saw was desert. Just a terribly flat vista, not even broken up by cacti or anything. Germina, Khelt, many nations bordered the Great Desert of Zeikhal in the center of the continent.
“How could anyone live here?”
“I’d dig. Plenty of shade and water, and if you can grow fungi…”
Yellow Splatters opined, and Pawn shook his head.
“No water underground, Yellow Splatters.”
The Soldier paused.
“What? None? But home…”
“No water. No dungeons either. Just sand and dirt, I suspect.”
“…This is better than Liscor.”
Pawn nudged him. They were the oldest of friends. As much as he was with Belgrade, Garry, or Bird. More, in a sense; Yellow Splatters was always around, whereas Pawn had grown further away from the other Antinium.
They’d gone through trials together, and yes, they’d had their ups and downs, like when Yellow Splatters had first disagreed with Pawn’s ways. Then when it had come out he’d lied about Heaven, or at least, having been there.
Friendship was friendship. If Heaven existed and there was a life eternal after death, then time was still too short to hate someone you loved. Pawn was glad Yellow Splatters had come, even if he was worried he’d left too few senior Painted Antinium back home.
“We’ll be back soon enough, I hope, Yellow Splatters. I truly don’t know what to do about this Prophet. King Fetohep suggested we might combat him, but if there really are thousands…we are not without combat Skills, but they might outlevel us. The power of his faith is vast. Do you sense that?”
They were very close to whatever the People of God were building. It was like a magnet pulling at Pawn’s own heart. Yellow Splatters agreed.
“They are powerful, but they have been…storing it. I did not know you could do that.”
“Neither did I. We are learning a lot. Starfold!”
Pawn turned and shouted over his shoulder, and Starfold glanced up.
“Yes?”
“Go and store some faith.”
“…How?”
“I don’t know. Find a box or something. Or copy these People of God. Yellow Splatters, I do not want to let Fetohep down. But if it is not open warfare, we should be careful not to throw the first punch. Only the last one. Still, I would like you to see how good they are at fighting.”
Yellow Splatters nodded again.
“I wish The Crimson Soldier were here.”
“Me too. Or the [Templars]. They are better at pure combat than we, but we must have faith.”
“Or some magical Relics.”
“That too. I hope my club works.”
Pawn touched the club, which was, like his censer, reforged by Pelt. It still looked club-like, but the [Smith] had claimed he’d dented his anvil trying to work it. It felt…heavy when Pawn lifted it, but he could swing it fast. He hadn’t hit anything but Yellow Splatters in some practice sessions with it, but they’d stopped when Yellow Splatters had nearly exploded.
Come to think of it…Pawn glanced at Yellow Splatters, then swatted at something red and black crawling up his arm.
“Yellow Splatters, your sins are crawling on me again.”
“Oops. Sorry.”
The Painted Soldier stepped back. Captain Cikroleth glanced at them from the ship’s deck. He hadn’t commented on Yellow Splatters’ unique appearance, but that might have been politeness or assuming Antinium were like that. Pawn peered at Yellow Splatters as the Soldier sucked the sin back, and his carapace reinforced itself again.
“Do you think you’ll be able to get rid of the class, Yellow Splatters? I’ve been praying for it, but…”
“I think it’s stuck. It’s not bad, mostly.”
Pawn tsked unhappily.
“I simply feel it’s unfair. And Lyonette’s fault; possibly Mrsha’s as well.”
“We should not blame her. She died.”
“Ye-es, but not for our sins. I can’t help but feel like it was her rumors about future-me and you that did all this. Have you levelled?”
“Mhm. I am still the [First Heretic-Captain of the Faith].”
“Damn.”
It really wasn’t Yellow Splatters’ fault. It was all that damn [Palace of Fates] thing. True, he’d lied about Heaven, but they’d settled that! It was just that the Painted Antinium grew in number, and some had gotten this crazy rumor in their heads about a future Yellow Splatters being condemned to hell. And future-Pawn.
Pawn rather resented having to answer for his future crimes. Everyone in the inn walked warily around him, and he hadn’t done anything! That wretched bastard, holding down a stable relationship with Lyonette for ten years…and yes, he’d caused some trouble, but he had also attacked Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom, and Pawn really thought he should get credit for that if he also got the consequences.
Anyways, Yellow Splatters was mostly okay with his class. Occasionally, he did produce weird crawling bug-sins, but his carapace was even tougher. Shame about some of his Skills being so horrifying, but he was a warrior and had said anything that helped him save other Antinium was welcome.
“Hmm. Maybe I could bring Lyonette something very alluring back from Khelt. Do they sell love potions, do you think?”
Yellow Splatters stopped trying to squish a little sin that looked like a fat roly-polly. His sin of gluttony, one supposed. It wasn’t very big, and it made a low squeaking sound every time he poked it.
“I think you should stop going after Lyonette, Pawn. She clearly isn’t interested in you.”
Okay, now he sounded like a real Judas. Pawn glowered at his friend.
“She hasn’t even tried to give us another chance! She’s just seeing future-me, and that’s not my fault. I’m…I’m not fixating on it.”
He’d gone back and forth over Lyonette for months now, and he knew Yellow Splatters was going to argue with him about it, but the Painted Soldier was just as disinclined to rehash the issue. He rumbled.
“There are plenty of fish in the sea.”
“Where am I going to find someone as perfect as her?”
“…I think you’re not seeing her flaws.”
“What flaws? I am getting a bit upset, Yellow Splatters. Name one.”
“I would say dumping you, but I am beginning to think that was not a flaw.”
Pawn was going over to poke Yellow Splatters in the side, and the Soldier had four poking-fingers ready to fight back. Then Pawn stopped.
“Look, I’m trying to get over it. But she was the only person I ever—you know—loved. The only non-Antinium who’s ever been that close with me.”
“I don’t need details, Pawn.”
The Priest punched Yellow Splatters’ shoulder.
“Not just intimately! I just mean…how am I supposed to go back? After knowing someone cares about me that much, how do I live a life without?”
He leaned on the railings of the ship. Like seeing the inn or the sky, once he knew it…Yellow Splatters sighed.
“This ‘love’ business seems like as much a problem as a blessing. I’m glad I haven’t fallen in love like Chesacre and Thaina.”
Pawn shook his head miserably.
“You don’t know what you’re missing, Yellow Splatters. That’s why I came here. I can’t keep just doing the same thing in the Hive. Everyone else is changing, but in a way, I stopped. Bird literally changed genders. Anand…he went after Erin, and Belgrade’s an officer now. But I’ve been tending to my flock.”
“Nothing wrong with caring for the Painted Antinium.”
Pawn sighed.
“No. But it meant I wasn’t levelling or trying new things. This? These are new experiences. See how we were welcomed in the Claiven Earth? We have to keep moving, Yellow Splatters. Heaven grows with each place we see, with each idea we find. We can have it if we never leave Liscor, but it will be more beautiful the more we do. And we must keep those who matter to us, no matter how far they are.”
That was why they were here, and Yellow Splatters rested a hand on Pawn’s shoulders.
“Now you sound like the Antinium I chose to follow. Enough about Lyonette and love. You should be rooting for both of you to move forwards.”
Pawn stared down at the ground passing by them, miserably nodding.
“Yeah, I guess.”
“That’s the spirit. You’ll find some lovely young Antinium lady. Or a rock. And Lyonette can, uh, date Yelroan.”
“…No.”
“How about Peggy? Everyone likes Peggy.”
“She’s an employee, Yellow Splatters. Stop talking about Lyonette’s love life!”
Yellow Splatters grinned.
“Why not? It’d stop you from agonizing over her once and for all. How about…Sir Relz?”
“Sir Relz?”
“They’re both sort of haughty.”
“Yellow Splatters, hold still. I’m going to throw you off the ship real quick.”
Pawn and Yellow Splatters began to shove at each other and poke. The Painted Antinium were ignoring the two arguing; this was their faithful leader’s one known flaw. Then they heard a shout.
“Krakens wake! Those bastards moved their camp! We’re right on top of the damn light! Hard to starboard, hard t—”
Then there was light. The ship jolted as a ray of light struck the hull, and Pawn’s arms were flailing. He reached for Yellow Splatters, and the Soldier shouted.
“Pawn!”
He leapt for Pawn, but the Worker skidded across the deck on his back-shell, hit the railing, flipped…he tried to grab it, but the ship was tilting, and then he was flying.
“Ah. [Holy Barrier]—”
He hit the ground as the air flashed again. Like a buggy meteor, raising a huge plume of dirt and sand. Pawn lay on his back and then got up.
“Praise be to faith. Amen. Now, where’s my ride—”
He turned, and the ship was already racing off into the distance, two huge holes in its hull. Pawn raised his hands.
“Um. Wait. You forgot me. Wait—”
Then he looked around and saw, in the distance, a glowing orb of light like a second sun rising ominously from the edge of some unwalled city. Pawn stopped.
“Ah.”
He’d found the Prophet’s people sooner than he’d thought.
 
——
 
As it so happened, no less than five other Antinium had also gone overboard when Sand at Sea had performed its evasive maneuvers. The first of them was Starfold, who’d broken an arm in the fall. Pawn reached down.
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]. Oof. Up you come, Starfold.”
“Thank you, Pawn. Do not tire yourself too much, please.”
The Soldier wiped at green blood that had been oozing from an arm as other Antinium dusted themselves off. One had broken an antenna, and Pawn recognized several.
“Rabbitears, Pie, and even you, Purple Smile? I lost my balance, but how did you fall off?”
The Soldier was far sturdier and better on his feet. He hand-signed.
“[I saw you go over and jumped.]”
“Oh. Well…thank you. Pie, let me fix your antennae.”
Pie, or rather, π, if you wanted to know his real name, was the last person to be healed. Then the Antinium stood around.
“We appear to have lost our ship. And we appear to be near the Prophet’s base. It must have moved; Captain C…Captain Cik…our [Captain] was not aware it had moved. Chandrarian names suck.”
They all nodded at this. Pawn cast around, scratching his head.
“Well, the ship went that way. And the Prophet’s clearly in that city.”
Both city and ship were vaguely south of them as Pawn pointed.
“Let’s go see these People of God.”
He started stumping out across the desert, and Purple Smile lost his smile.
“[What if they attack us, Pawn?]”
“Well, we run. But they already hit us with a light-beam, so I’d say we have every right to go over there and begin our objections to their presence in Khelt. Speaking of which…did anyone get hit by the beam itself? It didn’t hurt us. Only the undead.”
He hoped the crew was okay. The Antinium hadn’t been hurt by the light, nor had they seen any other Painted Antinium injured, so they began to march after Pawn.
Fun fact about the desert: everything was a lot further away than it appeared. And there were mirages.
 
——
 
Two hours into their march towards the city and Pawn was already in crisis. Namely—he adjusted the sand-cloak over his head and rasped.
“I would really appreciate the ability to conjure water.”
The Painted Antinium were rapidly suffering from the same problem Ksmvr had first endured in Chandrar: overheating. It wasn’t bad on the ship with the wind blowing and shade, but here? Pawn stumbled forwards, feeling leaden and slow.
Were they going to die in Khelt, paradise itself? Only, along the borders, the land was so barren. He could see vague patches of green further inland, and he was told the cities flowed with water, but they were oases between inhospitable land. Only where Kheltians lived was there any moisture.
“Pawn, it’s hot.”
“I know, Starfold. Shut up.”
“Use the scrolls that the Mage of Rivers gave you.”
“I can’t.”
“Why not?”
All the Painted Antinium turned to Pawn as he trudged onwards, wondering if tossing his censer would lighten his load. No, no, it was a sacred artifact. But it was so damn heavy.
“I, uh, didn’t want to hold that much contained water magic. Just in case they went off. I gave them to Yellow Splatters.”
They all stared at him so accusingly Pawn shouted.
“I didn’t think I’d be stranded in a desert. Are we going to die? I could use my Skill. [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]?”
That was his most useful capstone at the moment. The other Painted Antinium groaned.
“Unless Heaven’s sky is wet, it won’t help. What about summoning Workers? Is Heaven wet, Pawn?”
“I doubt they could carry more than one of us. As for Heaven…”
Pawn considered the theology and shook his head.
“No. Hell is wet. I distinctly recall my sermon on that when I was cursing Hectval. Though I am beginning to think that Hell could also be sandy.”
His legs wobbled, and he nearly fell over, but Purple Smile grabbed him and offered a shoulder. The combat-ready Painted Antinium were doing better than the others, and Pawn rasped as they hobbled into a natural channel of some kind, a long-dried riverbed.
“Okay, we might actually die before Sand at Sea or anyone finds us. Quick stop. Strategize. Does anyone have useful Skills?”
He regarded the others, who were, including Pawn:
Starfold, Rabbitears, Pie, Purple Smile, and an unknown Painted Antinium with a priest’s robes. Pawn pointed.
“Who are you? I apologize, you must be new.”
“I am Priest Ecclisi, P-Pawn!”
The Painted Worker bowed. He seemed nervous, so Pawn waved a weary hand.
“Don’t be so worried. We’re all Antinium here. Okay, Skills. Anyone?”
He looked around, and the Antinium thought.
“I could shoot a glowing star for help.”
“[I can hop like a rabbit, but I’d leave you behind.]”
“I can conjure a pie. Anyone want some?”
“[I would like a pie. I can kill monsters, but no water.]”
“T-this unworthy [Priest] could bring down the ruination of Heaven upon our enemies!”
Everyone turned to eye Ecclisi, and the Worker faltered.
“—But not upon the enemy of dehydration.”
Pawn rasped as he felt sick and warm all over.
“Verily is it said, he who forgets his water flask shall suffer damnation of being super thirsty. Amen. Drat. Are we actually in trouble? No, no, we can get out of this.”
He was strategizing, and he turned to the others.
“Okay. What would you all say if…just for our survival, I made some quick theological changes to Heaven? Heaven is a raincloud. Heaven is a lot of rain. Then I activate my Skill and hopefully we’re cooled off.”
The other Antinium glanced at each other, and Purple Smile shrugged.
“[Worth a shot.]”
Ecclisi seemed horrified.
“Change Heaven? But surely if we pray, we shall be saved. We would not meddle with Heaven, surely, Great Pawn?”
Pawn waved a hand.
“Just for a moment so we can cool off, Ecclisi. I’m sure everyone will understand. What do the rest of you think?”
Starfold raised a hand.
“What if…you didn’t make it rain, but made it snow? That’s even cooler.”
Pawn pointed at him.
“Ah! Ah, that’s the kind of thinking we need.”
Pie offered a pie around, and Pawn nibbled on some of the berry juices; Rabbitears was just pasting it on his body in an attempt to cool off. Pie waved his antennae. He was one of the Soldiers who’d decided to be given a voice by the Free Queen. Not everyone had wanted it, but his voice was a pleasing tenor, higher than you thought when he spoke.
“What if you made it so that Heaven had snow that was lemon-flavored?”
All the Antinium considered this, and Pawn scratched at his chin.
“You know what? That’s actually a pretty appealing version of Heaven. I can get behind that. Part of Heaven might have snow in it. Flavored snow.”
Ecclisi dropped his piece of pie.
“Proph—Priest Pawn! How can this be? I have never heard of lemon snow in Heaven! H-how can you change your vision so easily?”
Pawn frowned at Ecclisi, annoyed by this attempt to stop them from getting lemon-snow, if it even worked. The kid was new, so he sighed and tried to explain.
“Listen, Ecclisi. Heaven is an idea I had, a belief of something we are striving to make. It is not…set in stone. I was not granted a great vision from God, you understand?”
“Yes, but…”
“Heaven can change. It can have new things added to it, especially if they are good ideas, like lemon snow. Though, now I consider it, we might mistake lemon snow for the other yellow snow, which would be Hell indeed. But we must strive and improve. You understand? If we believe we have the truth, we are fools. Ryoka told me that, once, and I agree. Uncertainty and being able to adapt is part of faith to me.”
The young [Priest] was staring up at Pawn. His mandibles opened and closed, and he had a lot of scars for an Antinium. He must have served on the front lines of the Free Hive, poor fellow.
“I…I see. I didn’t know you had such beliefs early on, Pawn. Then perhaps—yes, I see it now. This is righteous! It can be made even better!”
He spread all four arms as he raised them, hands palm up to the sky. Pawn glanced at Purple Smile, who was studying Ecclisi. But then the Worker turned and clasped his hands together.
“I shall pray for our salvation, Pawn. I have [Greater Prayer], which may be of some use.”
“That’s nice, Ecclisi. But just in case—everyone up! Let’s make the most of that pie. If we don’t get snow from my Skill, we have to get to the city or we’ll die. Either that or we dig a hole…okay, not lemon snow! Raspberry? But then it could get mixed up with blood…blueberry. Heaven has blueberry, no, Amentus Fruit snow.”
He had it. Genius! Pawn staggered up over one side of the channel and nearly slammed into the old man peering over the edge of the pit. The man with a straw hat on his head shouted and recoiled. He nearly fell onto the back of the huge, gigantic cat who yowled in alarm and tried to hide behind him!
Pawn stared at the fallen Stitch-man and the ‘cat’, who yowled again and then roared with a far deeper voice, and then at the six other gigantic cats who slunk around the Antinium. Then at the farm not a hundred paces ahead of them.
Ecclisi threw up his hands.
“Our faith has been answered!”
Pawn held a hand out to the pale-faced man, who hesitated, then took it.
“You’re Antinium? In Eternal Khelt? How? Are you guests of His Majesty? What are you doing so close to the borders? There’s violent intruders and no water for miles!”
He croaked, and Pawn rasped.
“We fell off a ship. You…you wouldn’t happen to have any water, would you?”
Silently, the man pointed towards his home, and Pawn nodded. Then the Antinium had to ask about the cat.
“Um. Excuse me. What kind of cat is that?”
The angry cat with a huge brown mane was growling at him, and so were all the others. The Kheltian man patted its head.
“Lions.”
“Huh.”
 
——
 
His name was Malam, and he was a [Hermit]. A Kheltian hermit of all things. He was rather overwhelmed by the Antinium’s presence, but after he fetched a bucket from the well, which automatically raised one for him, the Antinium were grateful and able to think again.
“I live here. Have done for…thirty years? Can’t stand cities. Can’t stand villages either. His Majesty built this spot for me, far from anyone. Asked if I was lonely, so he had lions sent to me. Used to have a skeleton there, right there. Always watching in case they tried to bite. Took ten years before he let it go back to work.”
The man explained his entire life story and then stood there, looking like he was unused to so much socializing. Pawn cleared his throat.
“I see. I am Pawn. I’ve come here at His Majesty’s request. Thank you for the water. We were heading towards that city with the glowing light. It struck Sand At Sea.”
“Don’t go there. It’s filled with foreigners. Violent ones. They took things from a family on the roads. Just took them.”
Malam was horrified by the People of God, but they hadn’t found his lonely farmstead. He was a rather self-sufficient Kheltian in that he could do dishes and even had a small farm. And a fishing pond in the shade of his house; he pulled up a fish from the covered pool and tossed it to the lions. The single male began to chomp on it as the female lions yowled for their own share.
“[This is incredible.]”
Pawn didn’t know if Rabbitears meant the lions, who were the biggest cats the Antinium had ever seen, or the house. Yes, it was a lonely house, but it was beautiful. And—Pawn had to just mention this—probably as big around as The Wandering Inn’s main floor by itself.
Alone he might be, but Malam did not want for luxury. He had cooling spells that extended to his entire property; you could walk around in the farm and be cool as a cucumber.
The well auto-filled and lifted buckets. The man had a fridge full of preserved food, where he put the pie that Pie gave to him, and he had lions as pets.
He seemed rather pleased by the Antinium’s awe. Purple Smile was trying to pet a lioness, who bared her teeth and bit his arm. He kept petting as she realized he was not as biteable as she thought.
Rather cowed, the other lions let Pawn and the Painted Antinium scratch them behind the ears. Pawn turned to Malam.
“I fear we must at least pass by the city, but we are very grateful for your help, and we will be careful. We do not have much of value on us, anyways. Is all…well in Khelt?”
The man gave him a look as if he were crazy.
“All well? No. Not at all. First the foreigners are fighting here for—must be over a month—and that was after I saw arrows shooting down from the sky. Next, the skeleton that brings me food doesn’t come for two weeks in a row. An official had to do it. Is something wrong in Khelt?”
“…Possibly. But you appear well.”
“I’m not. Without food or other supplies, I can’t live out here.”
“Oh dear. What are you lacking? I could bring word to a city.”
Malam began to count off on his fingers.
“I need chocolate éclairs, the latest editions of Adventure and Woe, about…thirty-nine books, divided by genres, prime rib steaks for the lions, Waisrabbits—”
“Excuse me, I have questions.”
Pawn had to interrupt. He raised a hand, and Malam seemed affronted.
“I wasn’t done. Are Antinium all that rude? The Baker was polite.”
“Sadly, I am very rude. What was this about chocolate…éclairs? I know a woman who makes chocolate. It is very expensive.”
Malam shrugged blankly.
“I don’t know if it costs things. Someone makes them in the city nearest us, so I asked for them. They always send me new foods to try. I’d like sixteen. Twelve will do if the deliveries are slow.”
“And the books? You get book deliveries?”
“Yes. I read one a day.”
“And…steaks for your lions? Waisrabbits? You eat Waisrabbits?”
Another blank look, and Malam began to get annoyed. Pawn saw why he was a hermit.
“No, living Waisrabbits. For the lions to hunt. Sometimes they miss them, but they enjoy them. And I need a canister of purified water.”
“To drink.”
“What else would I do with it?”
Pawn glanced around, and Starfold’s mandibles were hanging open. The [Priest] remarked lightly.
“Oh, I did not wish to assume. I wondered if you watered your crops with it or something.”
Malam grunted.
“That’s not a bad idea. Two canisters, then. And…”
Pawn was spared from having to write a list of Malam’s needs out by the arrival of more visitors. There was a jangle from a magical bell on Malam’s doorway, and his head swung around.
“More guests? I—oh no. It’s them.”
He took one look at the hooded and veiled group coming from the direction of the city and dove behind a couch. Pawn rose instantly.
“They must have been tracking us. Malam—”
“They shouldn’t be able to find me! I have [Perfect Concealment: Home]! Don’t let them hurt me!”
“We won’t. Painted Antinium, to me. There are only…twelve of them. So, one for each of us, and seven for Purple Smile.”
The Antinium filed out of Malam’s house as his lions, rather than snarl and defend their home, joined Malam behind the couch. It seemed Khelt made mice out of even lions. Pawn reached for his club, but held up a hand.
“Hold on. They can’t see us.”
The Prophet’s people passed right by Pawn and Malam’s home without a second glance! Not close enough to jump, but they were heading for the dried-up riverbed where Pawn and the others had been. Pawn motioned to the Antinium, and they stealthed after the Prophet’s people.
One might wonder how six giant bugs approached anyone over the flat ground. The answer was simple: they crouched down and pulled the sand-cloaks over their bodies. Like that, they were actually fairly similar to the ground at a distance.
Pawn shuffled closer as he heard a voice calling in the distance.
“—In the name of the Lord our God, answer!”
They were calling out, searching for the Antinium. Pawn peeked his head up. Twelve, all on horseback. The horses were not happy. Looted from Kheltian cities? The People of God didn’t seem that rich; they wore somewhat worn white robes for the most part. Some were armed, but they had veils—for the sand that came whipping up. It couldn’t sting Pawn’s eyes, but they coughed, then another shouted.
“If you are lost, come unto the Lord, who is our Shepherd, and he shall guide you to Salvation!”
Huh. Even Pawn didn’t speak like that. He recognized the wording, of course. This must be Christianity, the kind that Erin and Ryoka had mentioned.
Ryoka with fewer salutary qualities. Pawn wondered which version it was. He was about to motion to the other Antinium to sneak closer when a third voice added.
“We have water! If you cannot speak, make a sound or we cannot find you! You’ll die of thirst otherwise!”
They shook a waterflask overhead, and Pawn’s head popped up. He saw the others spreading out, sliding into the riverbed, and each had a canteen.
“Hmm.”
After a second, Pawn signalled to the others to hold ground. Ecclisi would have risen, but Pawn threw off his sand-cloak and called out.
“Here I am. I am lost and thirsty. Can you help me?”
The People of God turned and recoiled the moment they saw him. One reached for a blade.
“What is that? A monster?”
“No, idiot. It’s one of the bug-people of Izril! An…an…”
“Antinium, hello. I am Pawn. I got lost. Did you see me or my friends?”
The People of God rode over, staring, and then one fumbled for a water flask. He tossed it, warily, at Pawn, and the Antinium caught it. He uncorked the flask and drank more water, splashing some over his face.
“Thank you.”
One of the men on horseback replied, making a cross with his hands on his chest.
“It is God’s will. We could not leave someone to die in the desert, even a Kheltian. But you…how did you come here? And, uh, what are those?”
He pointed at the five lumps on the ground and jumped as five more Antinium rose. Pawn sighed.
“We are Antinium. We came to Khelt on…a mission of mercy, I suppose. Who are you?”
He already knew the answer, but he was curious. The People of God eyed each other. Their leader spoke after a moment.
“I am Silad Hemp. We are the People of God, following the Prophet, delivering the Truth to these godless people of Khelt. We thought you were part of the cursed ship that sails across this land. If you were Kheltians, we were to keep you from dying. If you were the hateful undead, return you to rest. You—you were on the ship, yes?”
Pawn smiled at him.
“Yes, we were. We are guests of Khelt.”
The People of God glanced at each other again, this time with clear chagrin.
“We only attacked because we feared it as an assault! We meant to only strike back at the Kheltians, who have slaughtered us and rained terror from above. Please, come with us in peace to our cities. Do you swear that, we will give you escort.”
Pawn tilted his head. This was not the group he had imagined when Fetohep contacted him.
Into the lion’s den. He saw Purple Smile watching him, but then again, they had just been in a literal lion’s den. Pawn spoke slowly.
“In the name of Jesus Christ, God, and the Holy Spirit, I do come in peace so long as peace is offered to me and those around me, People of God. Will that serve?”
He used his own rudimentary knowledge of their religion and saw the man’s eyes go round. He bowed over his saddlehorn and stuttered.
“You know the words? Yes, of course! This is a miracle! Come, friends!”
He beamed, and laughed, and Pawn nodded to himself. He accepted the offer of a horseback ride since he was sick of walking, and swung himself up onto the saddle with the help of the other Antinium.
“I’m glad. I hope to meet your leader.”
“He is injured. Poisoned by an assassin.”
“Hm, if not him, then one of your higher-ups. And I am glad you come in peace and that I had your measure. You are people of the Christian faith, yes?”
Silad nodded, smiling at another person he thought to be a true believer.
“Yes, and you knew the words! The Prophet said more would be found who were true believers of the faith. An entire world of them.”
Pawn nodded slowly.
“Yes…I know the words. I am glad, as well, that I said the right ones. I wondered if you were perhaps Muslim. Or Jewish. Or Mormon.”
The man shot him a puzzled look.
“What are these names? I do not know them, Pawn of the Antinium.”
The [Priest] paused again, and glanced at Malam’s house, which had vanished. He was sure the old [Hermit] was watching them from there. Then he looked at the People of God.
“Hmm. I’m sure I shall try to explain. That’s strike one for both sides.”
“Strike? What is this strike for?”
“Oh, that’s just baseball. Nothing to do with religion. Lead on, Silad.”
That was how Pawn first met the People of God.
 
——
 
Yellow Splatters was exceptionally unhappy when they reached Koirezune. Pawn was missing, and everything the [First Heretic] believed in said that they should be going back to save him.
But here he was, abandoning Pawn, the center of their faith. That was so…underhanded.
“Do you think it’s my class? Do you think I’m levelling as a [Heretic]? Does this count?”
He was pestering some of the other Antinium, including Stellar Word. He was a [Priest] like Holytext and one of the more religiously…religious Painted Antinium. His severe voice and lectures about faith sometimes grated on the nerves, but they were actually welcome now.
“I would hope that not even a heretic blasphemer of our faith would be that evil, Yellow Splatters. We must have faith in Priest Pawn. It may be he is captured, but he is not dead. We would know. And therefore your logic and that of Captain Cikroleth is correct.”
Yellow Splatters relaxed slightly. Yes, it wasn’t just him. The Painted Antinium were not happy, but good tactics meant that Sand at Sea had to continue fleeing. They had two holes in their hull that had gone straight through the enchantments.
They could have stopped and disembarked the Painted Antinium when they were out of range, but that would have risked the entire remainder of their tiny force. They’d be squashed like, well, Shield Spiders if they went up against even a few hundred of the People of God.
Outnumbered, possibly outmatched, going to the capital was the only correct move. Pawn might be captured, but the People of God were not actually that murderous. And he was powerful on his own.
Therefore, the capital. Yellow Splatters’ first impression of Khelt was unsettling. Foreign powers in the borders was not the paradise he knew. And then…
There was the panic.
“Behold. Our glorious capital, jewel of Chandrar. Too many folk on the street to even get through, and they won’t hear us. Too panicked. Irg, get to the palace! The rest of you, patch that hull and get ready to sail.”
Captain Cikroleth didn’t even have time to walk the Painted Antinium to the palace. He just lowered the boarding plank, and they moved.
Oh, now this was familiar. Yellow Splatters inhaled something sweet and beautiful in the air, he heard the chiming of bells, and his eyes registered a profusion of colors that made him halt, but the fear made his legs move again.
There was a precarious sense to the air. Panic, a grave silence between raised voices. People on the streets, some standing still, statues of uncertainty, and he looked at the other Antinium and gave voice to the feeling.
“Their sky is falling. Advance.”
That was the sound running through Khelt, he realized. Empty restaurants, people hiding in their homes or standing in the streets, talking. A breakdown of the social order. He had seen it in Liscor before, and this was their first time. Tears, panic attacks. And—he saw a man shovelling pieces of bread into a sack of holding.
People preparing to flee. Yellow Splatters wasn’t even noticed at first—until someone saw him and cried out.
“Insect! They’re getting bigg—”
He braced, but like other nations in Chandrar, the Kheltians weren’t hostile to him, aside from the bug thing. They gazed upon him, then flocked forwards.
“Antinium? Are you here to help His Majesty? This way—this way!”
“Yes, we are. Do not be alarmed.”
They had no fear of the Antinium? The Painted Antinium were confused until one of the Kheltians spoke.
“You come from Liscor, and Khelt has helped Liscor! Of course! No one but Dovive has sent reinforcements. How many of you are there? Armies?”
The woman’s face reflected hope, and she stood on her tip-toes as if wishing to see the Black Tide marching. When Yellow Splatters told her they were only sixty in number, her face fell.
“Oh. It is so far. But surely…are you high-level? Is your class powerful?”
The Level 38 [First Heretic-Captain of the Faith] considered the question. Yellow Splatters rumbled.
“To some, perhaps. I am one of the highest-level Antinium in my Hive. Only my leader is higher-level among my…group. We have levelled via war and strife.”
He felt like they should outlevel another faith-based group, even if the other one had seen battles of their own. But after seeing that ball of light…
Stored faith. Yellow Splatters smiled at the woman, who smiled back.
“Excuse me, do not be afraid. I am smiling. Could you direct us to the palace? I assume it is that huge structure, but I do not wish to assume. Um, I am Yellow Splatters. What is your name?”
“Koirda. And I know you’re smiling. I watched Baker Garry’s broadcast. This way—clear the way!”
She wanted to tug him to the palace, but the Kheltians had seen the Antinium and were flooding forwards with questions. They were, as Yellow Splatters noted, panicking.
“Is it help? Those are Antinium right, not super-roaches? I never noticed they looked like bugs until now!”
“So few! T-they won’t be able to do anything in the north. There’s a hundred thousand of the People of God, and we’re going to be butchered! Without the skeletons—”
“—all doomed, we have to flee! Who’s with me? We’ll join Reim, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, or…”
That last man was the one with the rucksack of bread. He was hefting it and trying to convince other Kheltians on the street, but as terrified as they were, few people were even engaging him. One man, a horrified chef selling Rock Crabs of all things, was stuttering.
“L-leave Khelt? Are you mad?”
“There’s no safety here anymore. With Roshal and the Prophet, you see that, don’t you?”
“Yes, but other nations? What will we do? They require coins there, don’t they?”
The bread-carrying man hesitated.
“Yes, but…we’ll throw ourselves on the grace of the King of Destruction! He lets everyone join his people. We need protection. And surely the King of Destruction can provide that! Who’s with me? We could leave tonight! You should all pack your things!”
He turned, seeking consensus, and a few voices announced they’d packed, but they weren’t ready to go yet. At this point, a rather fascinated Antinium tapped the man on the shoulder.
“Excuse me, sir. Do not be alarmed.”
“I’m not. Are you Antinium of Liscor or the Hivelands? I’d love to sculpt your faces, but I’m fleeing for my life right now, excuse me.”
The bread-man turned, and the Worker clacked his mandibles.
“Er, yes. About that. Are you planning on going to Reim on foot?”
“On foot? Don’t be ridiculous, I’ll take a carriage with horses. I can drive it.”
“Oh, good. This is much more reasonable than I had thought. And I assume you have ample provisions.”
The man held up the bread sack and pulled out three loaves with a flourish.
“This should last well into Reim, shouldn’t it?”
All the Antinium peered at the loaves of bread, and even a few Kheltians like Koirda seemed to understand that it was not exactly a pack of provisions. The Worker scratched at his antennae.
“I think that would last you a day and a half of full bread meals. Which does not include the meals for horses. Reim…I do not think you would enter Reim and reach a city before experiencing significant hunger.”
The bread-man hesitated, affronted.
“What? Don’t be ridiculous. It’s only a day’s ride away, surely. Or less!”
“From here to the capital of Reim? If you were on a magical flying warship, you could make that journey in less time. On horseback? Do you know how far it is from here to Reim?”
The bread-man blustered.
“It can’t be that far. I’ve been to Kheltian cities in hours! Reim is our neighbor! Here, let me get a map and show you.”
Someone actually had a map, perhaps considering the very same issue, and the man pointed at the tiny distance between Khelt’s capital and Reim’s.
“It’s only 186 miles.”
“…Yes. Um, do you know how far that is? Have you ever travelled that far, sir?”
“Well, I don’t travel. I’ve never had to leave Khelt, but His Majesty reached the north coast in no time at all!”
It dawned on the Painted Antinium that Kheltians might understand how to read a map, but they had no sense of how far a mile actually was. Nor how to survive given that breadman, whose name was Alfense, had no coins nor experience with working.
Though he was a Level 22 [Sculptor]. He pointed a vague hand at his workshop.
“I make art, but between the bugs and the Slavers of Roshal, I fear for my life. It only makes sense. Everyone else is crazy. When the People of God are eating us, there won’t be time to run. Don’t you see?”
Yellow Splatters did see. There was a kind of pragmatism this man had that other Kheltians might lack. How many Liscorian citizens with these instincts had avoided catastrophes? And yet, the Painted Soldier peered around Koirezune, and he spoke to all and sundry as officials from the palace ran down to meet him, including a young woman holding a pot under one arm.
“It is true that sometimes, death comes for cities, even nations. This Prophet of God is dangerous, and we may not be able to stop them. However, home is home, however it looks. For your people, for an inn, I have seen people fight and die despite terrible odds. For this city?”
He had stood in it bare minutes. Yet—Yellow Splatters passed a hand over his eyes.
“I would fight for this city. I will fight for this city. If only because it is the first and only place in the entire world that has made art for my kind of people.”
His head rose, and the walls of the city glittered with beautiful colors, he would not deny. Any [Painter] in Izril would admire the murals of Queen Khelta lifting a finger and undead rising embellished across three streets such that if you stood in the right place, the art appeared across the façades of each building, creating the completed piece.
Or the street with little fishies swimming in glass-covered rivers. This was art. But…the Painted Antinium turned, and Yellow Splatters stared at a wall. Koirda, Alfense, and the other Kheltians turned, and the Human woman frowned.
“What art do you mean? Oh—the umbral wall? But that’s just black paint, no offence…”
It was a beautiful black, and if you stared closely enough, you could see the different shades which created an effect that could unsettle the stomach. There were contests to see who could stare at it longest without puking.
Yellow Splatters shook his head wordlessly, and it was Alfense who disagreed.
“It’s not just black. It’s just that we can’t see the colors. You’re supposed to wear certain enchanted glasses that let you see colors beyond the naked eye. Some artist drew the painting to impress his pet lizard.”
“You mean Lizardfolk? Did he own [Slaves]?”
“No, pet lizard. It wasn’t impressed by his art. He talked to it. The piece of art won little acclaim in his lifetime, but it was known for making different species stop and admire it. A few Nagas of Baleros, [Mages], a deer one time—so it was declared a Century Work. It’s slated for destruction in six years if it doesn’t win an extension. Oh, so they must see—”
The words washed over Yellow Splatters. He heard them, digested them, and understood by this that a non-Antinium had once made art they could not even see to impress a lizard. And that the beauty and scope of the art was worthy, recognized. But it might only last a century, then be torn down because this was the majesty of Khelt.
“Beautiful.”
He spun on one heel, and he picked up the pretty scents again. They hung in the air, blown from charms, not a hint of the sewers or even the earthy, common flavors of the Hive. The streets were so perfectly flat, and everyone dressed like the Players of Celum.
It was a beautiful city. Alfense and Koirda agreed, but both sighed.
“If only you had come at any other time, honored guests. Koirezune is not fit to be shown today! It’s so—filthy and run-down. You can barely smell the scent of the city, our own specialty. And there’s no music for everyone’s in a fever.”
“You have music? A concert?”
“No. Just music. There’s always music; surely that’s common everywhere?”
Alfense turned, and the Antinium peered at a fountain jetting purified water into the air. One of the Workers stared at a burger.
He knew burgers. He’d been served burgers before and thought it the bee’s knees at The Wandering Inn. He’d even had a double-decker pork buddy deluxe burger with goat’s cheese, straight from Erin’s menu—one ham ‘burger’, one beef, goat’s cheese, dried Yellats, spinach, all in fresh-baked bread.
The Worker saw an eleven-stack burger being boxed to-go for a stressed man. Avocado, pickled spicy Yellats, a thin fish-substitute tofu burger, tomato-bread, Noelictan Midnight Cheddar, handmade mayonnaise made with Fortuna Chicken eggs…
At this point, the Worker lost count of how many pieces of the 11-stack burger that was and had to begin again. Food, sights, and—the Painted Antinium kept turning as Pewerthe skidded to a stop. Then they knew what the word meant, for the first time in their lives. Just like they could know the word ‘sky’ or ‘happiness’ but never truly encompass the meaning until they found it.
Paradise.
 
——
 
In some ways, the Antinium were a foolish wish of Fetohep; a gesture that looked good on paper but would solve nothing. Pewerthe knew that, but she still ran to greet them as Fetohep lay slumbering, because she needed hope.
They all did. She was Khelt’s ruler in this moment. Vizir Hecrelunn was giving out orders as he saw fit, but it was a mark of the urgency of the situation that he let her govern from Koirezune. Their mission was simple.
“Deal with the citizens and the Prophet. I will curtail these invaders from reaching our lands, girl.”
He had armies to deal with. She a religious group and the panic that had set in when her pots broke. She judged the Prophet to be the greater threat, and she was grimly readying herself for the worst.
He had to be bested by non-undead means. Not Hecrelunn, not Sand at Sea. So that meant Alked Fellbow, Frieke the Falcon, Konska, Death Commander Lanodest and the few soldiers they had available to Khelt’s army, the Gnolls and Centaurs if they could be convinced to fight, and…Pewerthe.
The fact that she was including herself as a war-asset was a really bad sign. It also meant that the Painted Antinium were a considerable fighting force, but she could not count on them alone.
Hence the pot. Frieke was easily keeping pace with Pewerthe as she ran from the palace. She didn’t seem unsettled—Named-ranks seldom did, even when people began dying. Rather, she was pessimistically cheerful and actually taking notes in a journal as she ran. Pewerthe was gasping for air as Konska lazily flapped after the two.
“So let me get this straight: you were lying to me and His Majesty about your powers. You hid all of Khelt’s woes in pots.”
“Yes.”
“I caught the lie about your family. Did the [Bandits] kill them? The ones you escaped?”
“Yes.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. Did you, uh, lie about anything else?”
Pewerthe was shoving something inside the big pot she was carrying in one arm. She’d been filling it up since she’d heard Sand at Sea had been attacked. She’d put some stones she’d picked up inside along with broken pieces of glass or stone from the riots. Then added some olive oil from the palace kitchens. Two whole amphoras, which Frieke couldn’t help but notice were a lot more than the head-sized pot should have held.
It was a lovely pot; it had a banded side with etchings of Gnolls getting off ships, not like the crude pots Pewerthe had been making to hide secrets. Real artistry even other Kheltians would appreciate. Pewerthe panted.
“I’m not Level 32 or whatever I claimed.”
“Oh. Anything else?”
“Frieke, is now the time for this?”
“I’m just curious. What’s that?”
Pewerthe slowed to gasp for air, and she shoved what seemed like a bag of smelly dirt into the pot. She glared at Frieke.
“Compost. Fertilizer. Let’s see. Coal. Or charcoal.”
Konska flew off and found a bag—Pewerthe kept jogging down the crowded streets after a moment.
“I lied about how the [Bandits] died.”
“Really?”
“Yes. Some killed each other, but you don’t think all of them murdered each other down to the last one, do you? That truly would have been a story. Even with all the deception Skills in the world, they caught onto the fact they were killing each other. Then again, they butchered one another well enough.”
That implied at least a few had been alive before Khelt had gotten there, though. Frieke’s eyes slid to the jar. She saw Pewerthe grab a sack of nails and toss them in.
“I see. Any other lies?”
Pewerthe hefted the pot that Frieke now calculated held a number of very sharp or very flammable things. It was no fancy alchemical Potion of Blast, but Frieke wondered who had more power, a Level 30 [Alchemist] or Pewerthe. That wasn’t necessarily impressive to Frieke, though. She was Named-rank. Just a good use of class and Skill which anyone could do.
No, the impressive thing was when Pewerthe grabbed a lit torch from the side of a restaurant who liked the ‘authenticity’ of fire and tossed it in the pot. The flaming tip of the torch vanished, and Konska instantly flew away. Frieke stopped and put herself next to a thick wall.
“Er, Pewerthe.”
“Come on, I know what I’m doing!”
The pot…did not explode. Nor did Frieke see smoke coming from it. It could be the flames had extinguished, but she didn’t feel like that was the case. Frieke jogged forwards, then jumped back as Pewerthe bit the cork off of an actual Potion of Blast, then tossed it in the pot.
“Oh, come on.”
Pewerthe shut the lid on the pot, shook it around, then opened it and began to put more objects in, grabbing whatever she saw as she ran.
“It’s a special pot. Also, fertilizer explodes. Colovt told me that. Other lies…well, His Majesty knows a number of them, but what I tell most people is different, of course. For instance, do you think I’m actually Kheltian? What are the odds I survived all that if I were born or even raised by Kheltians?”
Frieke’s mouth actually fell open at this point, and Konska exchanged a look with her.
“Are you serious?”
“Maybe I’m not, maybe I am. That’s the point. Secrets level me. Okay, excuse me, coming through!”
Then they met the Antinium, and the ultra-dangerous pot managed to swallow half a burger, two plates, a kitchen knife, and two lanterns while Pewerthe spoke with Yellow Splatters and his company.
The burger was probably an accident.
 
——
 
“I give you the run of any city you need and anything you require—armor, weapons, supplies, just name it and we’ll give it to you. But I warn you: the Prophet’s people best magic. Everything except for Relic-class items are ineffective. We have avoided doing battle with them because of the cost to Kheltian lives, but…the moment is coming. They are building something, and that light that struck Sand at Sea is hovering over the monument they’ve constructed. They call it a ‘sacrament’, and when it activates, I fear it will be battle. I’d prefer to engage them before that.”
Pewerthe the Potter was a strange ruler compared to Fetohep, but he was apparently unconscious or something. A fact that the citizens had not been aware of. They began screaming as Pewerthe held a conference with Yellow Splatters.
“What? What did she say?”
“His Majesty is—! Why didn’t anyone tell us? The Day Servants?”
“Pewerthe? That’s Pewerthe the Potter! Why is she talking like she’s an official?”
The young woman reminded Yellow Splatters of Watch Captain Zevara. Or maybe Saliss, but that could have been all the things she kept putting into that pot she was holding. Not Erin; she was too focused, and she seemed like she knew what was going on. Erin was chaos. She could be a mastermind, but she often surprised herself.
He nodded after a moment.
“In that case, Potter, I would like to allow my people a chance to rest; we have been travelling nonstop. We shall move towards the Prophet of God’s people to locate Pawn and attempt to engage them in civil discourse and identify their powers. They have considerable strengths, and we must learn how they fight and how well they fight.”
Scout, analyze, recover. Pewerthe nodded and took a breath.
“And if you find yourself outmatched or they are hostile?”
“Then we shall engage them with fists to the face.”
Yellow Splatters punched a fist into the palm of his hand with all four arms. Pewerthe blinked, and the Kheltians recoiled. But the woman standing next to Pewerthe, Frieke the Falcon, grinned.
The Antinium were what Khelt needed in some senses. Yellow Splatters wanted to be intelligent, diplomatic, and so on, but he did have a specialty, and it was hitting problems. He turned to Frieke.
“Your help in this regard would be useful if it comes to fighting, Adventurer Frieke.”
She nodded casually, touching the shortsword at her side, and a giant grey hawk landed on one bracered arm.
“I can join in fighting whenever it starts. But Alked’s the real fighter between us. I’m more of a hybrid scout-fighter. I’m decent at swordplay, and I have lots of combination-abilities with Konska.”
“May I ask what that entails, Adventurer Frieke?”
Normally, these were secrets, but sixty versus what Pewerthe guessed to be anywhere from four to eight thousand who had survived the Arrows of Razzimir…they’d have to work well. Frieke hesitated, but then nodded.
“Surely. My best Skill is my Level 40 Skill, [Falconer’s Bond: Share Skill]. It doesn’t do anything on its own, but it means that Konska or I can use a Skill and share its effects.”
Oh. That sounded good. However, Frieke seemed a bit embarrassed by it. She scratched Konska’s neck.
“It’s pretty average for most [Beast Masters], honestly. I know three with the same kind of Skill. My specialty with Konska is how he helps me reposition. Where he goes, I can follow with [Partner’s Bond: Limited Teleport]. Then I’m set up for a [Falcon Drop]—that’s a dive attack—and so on and so forth. I need to be mobile, and he needs to be able to coordinate with me.”
A wide-ranging attacker with amazing mobility. She’d be useless in the Hives, but Chandrar, with its open terrain, suited her. Frieke sighed.
“…But Alked’s the one who hunts giant monsters. As Named-ranks go, he’s more established than I am in experience and levels. I’m low-rank, he’s mid or high-rank. And he’s got Heavens’ Arc, a Relic-class item. Konska’s got a mini bag of holding and a charm made by some high-level [Witch] as well as two rings, but we don’t have that kind of gear. You want someone who can drop even the faithful? Check with him. Even my armor’s just okay.”
She was a Dullahan, but she seemed so much like a Human that he hadn’t noticed her armor was just metal and cloth to resemble a woman wearing armor and clothing. Fascinating—Yellow Splatters had never seen a Dullahan look like that. Normally, Dullahans liked the all-armor aesthetic, but Frieke seemed to want to blend in with other Chandrarians.
Pewerthe had listened to Frieke’s entire spiel and eyed her, as if seeing the Named-ranker’s self-effacing words and becoming guiltier with each second. An extraordinary woman taken for granted in Khelt, which, Yellow Splatters realized, was going to be a motif. Wordlessly, Pewerthe fumbled at her belt.
“You are not second to Alked, Frieke. You are one of Khelt’s few champions and my friend. As acting Ruler of Khelt—”
“What did she say? I must have heard that wrong.”
“—I am giving this to you. Wield it in Khelt’s defense. I bequeath to you, the…the…Serept’s Blue Sword.”
Pewerthe pulled the blue diamond longsword she’d taken from Serept’s treasures from her waist and handed it to Frieke. The Named-ranker’s eyes went round, and she nearly dropped the Relic. Even the Kheltians gasped.
“Pewerthe!? You can’t!”
“I can, and it is overdue. Fetohep guards the Relics like they matter. Right now, Khelt matters. Take it, Frieke.”
“I can’t!”
“You will or I will put it in this pot, and even I don’t know if the pot can hold that!”
Faced with the threat of potting a Relic-class item, Frieke took the sword and examined it. Yellow Splatters wondered, since Relic-class items were being handed out, if he could get in on that.
No, first things first. First, he intended to go to Pawn; they were taking enough time here. He motioned.
“Stellar Word, you will remain in the city with Pewerthe and defend her and explain our capabilities. The scrolls, our powers. The rest of you, with me. We will go back to the border and investigate in squads. Do not engage. Try to figure out what powers the People of God have and if we can copy them.”
Frieke and Pewerthe glanced at him.
“So their powers are beyond even you, Captain Yellow Splatters?”
Pewerthe’s smile was desperate, and the Painted Soldier saw her exhaustion and worry. He held up his hands hurriedly.
“What? No. They are unique, but not incomprehensible. Their faith resembles one that Pawn knows, which is why we must find him, and they use their powers differently. We could sense this sacrament, but none of us have ever used the like. We are learning. Actually…did Starfold ever figure out how to store faith?”
He turned and realized that Starfold was one of the missing Painted Antinium, but another Soldier raised a hand.
“I have it. Excuse me. Excuse me, I am Seventh Voice.”
He strode over, and the Kheltians admired the images of speech, stylized lips and mouths, on his armor. Pewerthe frowned.
“Why the name, may I ask?”
“Because he was the seventh Soldier to be granted the ability to speak by the Free Queen. And now he won’t shut up about it.”
One of the Painted Workers muttered. Seventh Voice elbowed Radiant Turquoise and bowed. He held something in his arms. It was…a glowing orb of light?
Pewerthe and Frieke recoiled instinctively, but it was not the same as the holy golden light that the People of God had. This was more like a shimmering ball of contained mist, a vortex of light, like stellar nebulae contained within.
It looks like Pawn’s capstone Skill, [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. Yellow Splatters glanced at Seventh Voice, and the Soldier nodded.
“It took a bit of effort to contain. We can gather the faith, but it requires a vessel to anchor it. Perhaps you could make it float, but that is an experiment for later. Then it was small; we sacrificed six scrolls, but I deemed it prudent not to waste more in the mere prototyping phase, Captain, Your Majesty, Adventurer Frieke. Also, do note the dimensions of the orb. Perhaps they are naturally spherical or it is the object we sacrificed that established the dimensionality.”
Seventh Voice spoke like Pisces and Mrsha combined. Yellow Splatters cut him off before he could waste more time.
“What vessel did you sacrifice to hold this?”
“Our favorite football. It was pretty holy; we’ve been using it since the sport was invented.”
Pewerthe’s face went slack, but as Painted Antinium reckoned such things, that was a pretty holy object. They’d have to get a new one. Yellow Splatters inspected the bundle of faith.
“Hmm. This is useful. I can almost sense the power in it. We could fuel a miracle with it, or something bigger. Holytext’s creations have more of a use if they can be converted to raw…faith? More use than attracting Fissivolian secret agents to steal it from us and having Antinium sell it on the streets.”
“Hey. That is very hurtful.”
“May I see it, Yellow Splatters?”
The [Potter] was very curious and shivered when she touched the orb, but then frowned.
“It’s…pleasant. Like a vision of the sky. The [Light of Faith] is harsh and blinding.”
“We believe in different things, then. Their beliefs seem better for fighting with. But this might hurt if you threw it at someone. We’ll try that.”
By which Yellow Splatters meant literally just hitting someone with the soccer-ball sized orb of faith and seeing what it did. Again, he was not Pawn. The Painted Antinium had their miracles, and they’d use them as needed.
Pewerthe peered at the orb, then hesitantly turned to Yellow Splatters.
“If you intend to just…use it, Captain? May I try something with it? It might use it up, but I am curious. This has never existed in Khelt before, not in all our records.”
“Of course.”
He handed it to her; they could always make more since they’d brought at least four soccer balls, though they’d lost one at sea. Pewerthe eyed the orb and then…put it in her pot.
There was a flash, and the pot vibrated dangerously. Everyone backed up rapidly, and Pewerthe herself held the pot like an explosive.
“I don’t know if it’s going to hold. Frieke—”
She handed the pot to Frieke and backed up fast, ducking behind a low wall. Frieke apprehensively held the pot as it kept trembling, then slowly, slowly settled down. Then it began to glow, each color of the pot lighting up, and Pewerthe eyed it.
“I think it’s full.”
“What does the pot, um, do?”
Yellow Splatters reflected that even in Khelt, he could be surprised by some of the people. Pewerthe pointed at the pot.
“The pot? It holds things. That’s all. It holds a lot of things. It’s a [Pot of Combination]. The question is…what happens when the combined thing comes out? That happens when the pot breaks. Normally, it’s mostly just an explosion. Now? I have no idea what will happen. You should take it with you.”
The Painted Antinium glanced at each other. Yellow Splatters nodded to Seventh Voice, and the Soldier quite audibly grumbled as he went to take it.
“I wish we’d gotten Fetohep. This sucks.”
They took an hour to rest. Then they were marching north for war. Religious war. But Pawn…Pawn had already met the Prophet’s people. What he saw was illuminating.
 
——
 
“It’s too goddamn bright.”
It slipped out of Pie’s mouth after forty minutes of being in the ‘holy’ city that the People of God had taken from the Kheltians. Pie was in a bad mood; he’d been seasick on Sand at Sea, despite being on dry land, then been knocked off, then been dehydrated, and now his eyes hurt.
Every member of the faithful gasped and turned to him. Starfold slapped the back of Pie’s head, and Pawn lifted a hand. He was seated cross-legged with one of the [Priests] who’d captured them. They didn’t call it that, but a lot of warriors were surrounding the six Antinium.
They knew Antinium, but vaguely, and were highly alarmed by their presence. Pawn’s voice, though, was soothing.
“Forgive my companion, Pie, Priest Silad Hemp. He only means that the city taxes our eyes; we live in the darkness of the underground, and your city is blinding.”
They sat in the [Light of Faith], which hovered right over the city. A glorious symbol of faith, but consider what that meant.
Every place the light touched was almost blinding; white or glass became near-impossible to see, and what shadows weren’t banished stretched out, elongated by the light.
Sort of ironic; the more light, the more shadow. Priest Silad probably understood Pawn’s comment about the light, but he had dropped the piece of manna he was offering them. His face clouded with anger.
“Thou shalt not take the Lord’s name in vain! So it is written in the Ten Commandments set down by the Prophet. If you are a people who understand the word of God and the Bible, you would know this, ‘Priest Pawn’.”
He was suspicious of Pawn more than when they’d met. Hearing Pawn was a [Priest] had put the man’s guard up. Pawn was trying to explain, and he kept his voice pleasant. Level.
“As I have said, I am not a member of your faith, though I respect it, Priest Silad.”
“There is only one true faith and one true God. All others are pretenders. Thou shalt not worship false idols!”
Silad’s head bowed, as if coming to an unfortunate conclusion. Pawn lifted a finger.
“Firstly, I do not wish to come to violence within moments of meeting, Silad. This appears to be a quick judgement.”
“There is nothing in the New Bible or Bible about the quickness of thought or judgement, Priest Pawn.”
“No, there is not. I would hope that falls under common sense. Allow me to continue.”
The other [Priest] recoiled slightly, and the crowd of people, Stitch-folk mainly, and mostly Hemp, though Pawn saw a very attractive Silk Stitch-woman watching him, laughing. Then they covered their mouths, but this was a good sign. It meant they were people. Pawn went on, smiling.
“Second to my points, my people do not worship false idols. We do not worship other Gods.”
“But you are not people of Christ.”
“Yes, and our faith revolves around belief in Heaven, not a God. Thirdly, I wish to emphasize that discourteous as Pie’s comment was, it does not violate your commandment.”
“He swore in our holy city!”
“Yes, but he did not take the Lord’s name in vain. He said ‘goddamnit’, not the name of God. One may argue that he disrespected the authority of God, but as Pie would assure you, he only meant to reflexively curse the light itself. Not the light that derives from faith, but just the fact that it is…very bright. I am sure a man of God such as yourself can understand the nuance, especially in light of our foreign backgrounds.”
The Painted Antinium listened as Silad blinked, and the Faithful murmured. They had forgotten, but Pawn truly was eloquent at times. He had the most practice of all the Antinium, and for however much someone like Seventh Voice could try to copy him, Pawn had actual meaning behind his words, not just a fancy lexicon.
The [Priest] nodded cautiously as he hesitated, glancing over his shoulder into the crowd.
“You—you speak with authority, Priest…Pawn. And you are foreign believers. Tell me, how do you know the Truth and the Way? It was prophesied that one day, other Humans would come who knew the Good Word, an entire planet of them, but not Antinium.”
Pawn’s antennae waved.
“Fascinating. It would appear to me that this Prophet is from the same location as some other people I have met. I suspect we both have met people of Christianity. I was taught by two women I know and cherish dearly. I have never met this planet of Humans, but is it so surprising an Antinium or any species might know of Christianity? If it is the Truth and the Way, then all peoples are surely entitled to it. Or so I hope.”
Silad was nodding, a beatific smile on his face. He leapt up.
“This is so! More proof for the Prophet! We have sent word to the other Disciples who are coming—then have you come to cast down Khelt as well? Does the surety of his mission call other faithful across the world here?”
Pawn hesitated.
“If it does, God has a mighty odd sense of humor. But I am told that is to be expected. Say rather, Priest Silad, I hope to bring an end to the hostilities.”
The murmur became quiet, and an expression of such anger crossed Silad’s face that Rabbitears tensed.
“There can be no peace with the King of Khelt, who is an abomination under God. Nor for what he has done to us. He has murdered us by the thousands, and now we only hold back from spilling blood in Christ’s name by the Prophet’s will and the need to finish the sacrament.”
Pawn paused as all the Painted Antinium glanced at him. He took a piece of manna, nibbled at it, and then spoke.
“Interesting. What happened to ‘Thou shalt not kill’?”
“—That only applies to those who do not bear arms against us!”
“Hm. I see. That is odd because I had thought it a universal rule.”
Now, Silad was angry again, and he jabbed a finger at Pawn.
“Who are you to argue against the Prophet’s words? He is the one who has spoken and hears God’s voice!”
“Do we not all hear God’s voice, Silad? Can a [Priest] not argue with a [Prophet]?”
“Wh—of course not! The Prophet stands above us in rank!”
Pawn spread his hands as the Stitch-folk reached for weapons at their side. He was so calm, and he seemed to speak to the people behind Silad, not the warriors tensing.
“I see, but that is curious. Forgive me if I err, but as I believe the Bible states, are all not equal in the eyes of God? We are mortals, not the divine, Silad. Is the [Prophet] infallible? Would he claim he could never make a mistake?”
Silad hesitated, and Pawn went on.
“No, of course not. Foolish of me to even ask, because even a Pope of Earth is not infallible. No mortal man or woman is. Indeed, faith is often challenged from within as without. Just as Martin Luther once challenged the Catholic faith by nailing his famous ninety-five theses on the door of the church, so are we allowed to challenge ideas. I do not do so as greatly as Martin Luther, of course, but I merely ask this as a fellow believer who has come in peace to your camps. I have no fear that my questions should lead to harm, for they are questions, and we are all people of faith. I shalt not be killed nor, I think, harmed here. For that is in the Ten Commandments, is it not?”
The [Priest] had gone from hot, zealous anger to uncertainty to a great shivering of his shoulders. The warriors, ashamed, backed up as Pawn spoke and Silad sat there, trying to formulate a response. He could not, so a woman sat with a basket of dates in front of them. She placed them in a bowl for the Painted Antinium and smiled.
“If I may, Priest Silad, I would like to speak to Priest Pawn. I am Yirene, a Disciple of this city. It is indeed a bright one, which is why the Prophet himself and the other Disciples occupy other cities. May I?”
Silad leapt to his feet, bowing, and the other Painted Antinium understood. Ah. She was the one in charge all along. Ecclisi nudged Pie and hand-signed at them.
“[She is the true leader and danger.]”
Rabbitears signed back.
“[Duh. We could all tell she was the most faithful one here. Pass the dates.]”
Yirene was apologizing to Pawn, and he nodded his head to her.
“Your forbearance is most welcome, and I take no offense, Disciple Yirene, if that is how I may address you. Thank you for the fine fare. This manna truly is bread from the heavens; I am not allergic to it.”
She smiled.
“It is a wondrous food, but other meals do tempt the stomach. These are from vineyards we took from the Kheltians. No more grow upon the vine, but we have wine aplenty—too much of it. Would you drink it with me? It is not the sacrament, though we might offer wine and bread in Christ’s name. I have many questions, however.”
“I would be delighted to answer them and pray with you, Yirene. I hope we will come to a mutual understanding.”
So they knelt, and she spoke as bread and wine was passed out, and only after that did they return to sitting. Yirene glanced at Pawn.
“Something you said earlier intrigues me, Priest Pawn. You know much of our faith?”
“As I said, I met two who were faithful at one point in their lives. Perhaps neither one was active, but both knew much and taught me.”
“They strayed away from—”
Yirene held up a hand, and Silad fell silent. She nodded, eyes alight.
“The Prophet would very much like to meet more of his people, Priest Pawn. He has long yearned to meet others of his world.”
“I am sure they would be…intrigued to meet him. Sadly, both are on other continents.”
“Would you tell me their names? Scrying spells might be arranged.”
Pawn hesitated.
“Sadly, Disciple Yirene, both are in danger from considerable powers. I would not wish to endanger them more, even if the Prophet is doubtless able to extend his protections to them. If we reach a satisfactory understanding here, I would be delighted to tell you the names.”
“I see. Of course, this would be the preferable outcome.”
Unlike Silad, who was straightforwards, this put Pawn on edge; if he could have, he’d have been sweating harder, now. Whomever Yirene was, she was capable of pushing and pulling and having nuance. However…he sipped more wine.
“Candidly, I hope to negotiate a ceasefire where the People of God withdraw from Khelt. Do you think that this can be effected with the Prophet when I meet with him?”
She hesitated and glanced at the people listening, some of whom had drawn back to speak with Pie and the other Painted Antinium. Rabbitears was waggling his ears at some children, who stared open-mouthed at them. Her eyes darkened, and she bowed her head.
“Most of the People of God wish for vengeance, the Prophet most of all, Priest Pawn. I, myself, am in horror at the King of Khelt. He has attacked and slaughtered us, and as the Prophet points out, his existence is against God. How would you argue against that?”
Another group had come to the little corner canopy where they sat in a building that might have been a Kheltian café until they were driven from it. Everything was so beautiful here despite the light…no one had fought or broken any windows that Pawn could see. The Kheltians had just fled.
And the Prophet’s people had stolen this. Pawn was glad his face could not reveal his feelings as openly as other species, for he turned his ire on the newcomers who had come at the head of a flock of followers. Leading them were two Hemp Women, a Cotton Stitch-man, and—supported by the trio—a Human man who limped forwards, covered in sweat.
He was gaunt, had a half-shadow of a beard on his face, and looked as if he’d been recently sick. But his eyes burned with the same fervor as the other People of God, and he sat gratefully in a chair as food and drink was rushed to everyone. Not just bread and wine, but many, many delicacies cooked from the Kheltian stores.
When the Human man had first seen the Antinium, his eyes had bugged out, and he had recoiled, but he said nothing. The newcomers listened as Pawn spoke, voice soft. And now he was thinking hard. Very hard.
“…I would argue to the Prophet, were I to meet him, that perhaps his anger at King Fetohep of Khelt is justified, especially if he has been attacked. I cannot gainsay that as I was not here and have not seen nor been told the truth of this conflict. However, I can argue from a position of faith that this war does not follow God’s will. God’s will is difficult for any to know, and it is my belief that there is no justification for this war in the Bible.”
Yirene’s eyes flicked to the others who sat, silently, and more faithful appeared, waves of them sitting and listening, and the Painted Antinium turned. Ecclisi pointed, and Pawn nearly threw a date at his head. He hand-signed back.
“[Yes, do you think I’m blind? Shut up and search for a way out in case we have to run.]”
Then Yirene was speaking after whispering with one of the women who introduced herself as Marrieh. Yirene hesitated and glanced at the Human man.
“You said something odd earlier, Pawn, when Silad claimed you had blasphemed. You said he could not have taken the Lord’s name in vain, for that was not the name of the Lord our God. Yet he has no name.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened. And clicked closed. And opened again. His cunning theological argument fell apart for a second.
“Er…what? Yes, he does.”
Yirene blinked. Marrieh’s head turned, and then she caught herself, leaned forwards.
“He does not, surely. Unless you refer to some other God?”
“No—the same one, I think. You’re referring to the God of Christianity, the God of the Quran, the God worshiped by Hebrews, and the one who spoke to Joseph Smith Jr., among many other subsects of the faith?”
Pawn cast around, and the Human man spoke, voice strained and harsh.
“There is only one God. And it is Christianity that is the way. The other faiths are…correct but misguided.”
Pawn nodded to him, respectful, and saw every eye focus on the man who had to be the Prophet. He certainly glowed with faith. But many of his company had as much strength. He was the center of it though, the locus.
They are of my level or maybe higher. Great. Pawn spoke, carefully.
“I would not argue with that, sir. But if it is this God who is present in so many faiths, then he has a name.”
“It is not written in the Bible.”
The man instinctively shot back, and Pawn’s head tilted.
“No…perhaps not.”
“Aha! Then—”
“It would be written in the Torah, and the Jewish faith would know it. I am not an expert on that text, but I do know it. It came to me from a woman who was familiar with many faiths, having read numerous holy texts in search of the truth.”
Thank goodness for Ryoka Griffin. The Prophet of God stared at Pawn, uncertain, then sat back as Pawn waited.
“If it is his holy name, then it would deafen the ear and blind all those who heard it, as it was in the Arc of the Covenant. You could not know or encompass it.”
“Perhaps, then, it is a lesser name, incorrect, or merely a name fit to write on paper. Perhaps, if I spoke it to you—forgive me, I do not know your name, sir—you might tell me if you recognized it?”
Pawn spoke, and another Disciple interjected.
“I am Lazimeh, and this is the P—”
“Harvey. I am merely…Harvey, as all are men before God. This is my name, Pawn of the Antinium.”
Murmurs and gasps, but the man sat forwards, and Pawn whispered to him as Yirene and Marrieh moved back, but he had the distinct impression a few heard his whisper, silent as it was.
“Yahweh. Or perhaps Jehova?”
Those were the names he knew, and the Prophet’s eyes flickered. With recognition for both. He sat back.
“That first name…yes. Yes, I recall…but it is their word, the Jewish one. The second. Jehova’s Witnesses. His witnesses?”
His brows crossed, as if figuring out why that particular faith called itself that. Pawn nodded.
“That would make sense, yes.”
The man exhaled, momentarily startled, then he schooled his features to impartiality.
“Neither is the word that is the true name of God, but I grant that you know much of the faith, it seems, Priest Pawn. Though I did not recognize your faith. Who is this woman who knows so much? Did she have a copy of the Good Word on her person? On a device, perhaps? Or even a physical one?”
His eyes were suddenly hungry, and everyone held their breaths but sighed as Pawn shook his head.
“Sadly, not. She was merely well-read, having read many holy texts back-to-front.”
Mostly so she could ‘annoy the shit out of her priests’, in Ryoka’s own words, but they didn’t have to know that.
A young woman started serving tea around, and Pawn noticed she was a former slave. She was glancing at him, and he bowed to her.
“Hello, Miss. What is your name? If time permits, I would like to use my Miracle to remove your scars. It is one of the things given to me by my faith. And I do not like slaves. Did you free her, Disciple Yirene?”
The Prophet blinked. Yirene answered.
“She came to us as many freed [Slaves] do. We do not give them back to Roshal, Priest Pawn, but we do not actively court war with them.”
“Yet you stand in opposition to them.”
Yirene glanced around, uneasy, as a murmur of approval rose from many of the faithful who also bore the same mark. They were watching.
“We do not fight with the Slavers of Roshal, Priest Pawn.”
He met the Prophet’s gaze.
“It does not matter. So long as you harbor a single [Slave], they consider you an enemy, and in time, they will make you theirs. A people of faith who are like those that rose against the Egyptians for freedom would never consort with [Slavers], surely.”
He baited a hook, and the bark from the Prophet was a reward in of itself.
“Of course not! Neither for the word of God or just morality! Slavery is wrong. No free nation would have them!”
Yirene closed her eyes, and there was a cheer from many voices. Pawn smiled genuinely. Of such moments did he think great things were done, and the woman, Marrieh, seemed to sense it too, because she spoke next.
“Explain your reasoning that the King of Khelt is not an enemy by God’s will, Priest Pawn. Please. He has killed us by the thousand.”
“He has, and that is his sin. But that is not a religious reason to kill him, surely?”
“He is undead. His people worship him like a God! Only one being can revive the dead, as he did in my namesake’s case! Lazarus returned from death, and Christ rose three days after passing. The undead are unholy. How else would our faith unmake them?”
Lazimeh put in hotly, eyes flashing. And while he was as vehement as Silad, he was harder to counter. Pawn had no religious citation to disprove undead were unholy, so he thought.
“Let me ask a question, Disciple Lazimeh. Is the light of your faith a weapon that applies to many things?”
“It has defeated numerous foes, from Nerrhavia’s Fallen to Medain, yes. Why?”
“I ask only to confirm that the anti-undead effect it has is proof that undead are truly unholy. Has it destroyed other beings or creatures the same way? Because if that is so, perhaps it is merely a weapon given to you by your faith, not clear proof the undead are the one and only true enemy of Christianity.”
Lazimeh frowned and turned to Harvey, and the Prophet spoke hotly.
“How could you gaze upon the undead and see them as anything but a menace to the living? Their will to destroy is known!”
“True…but faith is many things, Disciple Harvey. Surely, it might just be that faith counters undeath like it does magic. Allow me to state that we may be incorrect, even you Disciples, about the nature of faith. I have been wrong many times, as my Painted Antinium can attest.”
Pawn turned to them for help, and they spoke.
“Absolutely.”
“Pawn often errs. Salt in the tea instead of sugar.”
“He’s always wrong.”
“Priest Pawn is the closest being to the divine! He may struggle to find the path, but his words will bring us all to salvation!”
This time, the date hit Ecclisi in the head, and he shut up. Purple Smile hand-signed.
“[He was wrong about Lyonette.]”
“What did the last one say?”
Pawn’s antennae waved desperately, but he had to translate that, and Harvey gave him a blank look.
“She is an, uh, a woman I was in a relationship with. We broke up. Amicably.”
Harvey’s look of instantaneous jealousy and triumph made him spring to his feet. Then he clutched at his side, but he pointed a shaking finger at Pawn.
“Aha! A man of the cloth does not engage in carnal relationships!”
Pawn was mad now, and he waved a hand.
“Oh, shut up. Yes, they can. You’re thinking of Catholic priests! And I’m pretty sure you’re of a Protestant faith, or you’ve been doing your entire communion wrong this entire time!”
He shouted back. The faithful gasped, and Harvey hesitated.
“Explain yourself.”
Pawn rose to his feet and cast a finger down at the manna and wine cups before him. He stood in the center of the listening People of God as he faced off against the Prophet, and his own robes swished around him.
“When Yirene introduced me, she led me through communion.”
“As was her right. Women may serve as priests.”
Harvey interjected, and Pawn nodded. He noticed the Disciples watching with less overwhelming confidence than the rest of the People of God, but that freed [Slave] was regarding him with what felt like a knowing look. Pawn cleared his throat with a crackling sound and nodded.
“Indeed, something it has on the Catholic faith, I believe. However, she offered me manna and wine.”
“And?”
“Antinium are allergic to bread. It is not a known thing, but we cannot ingest wheat or other such products without an immediate allergic reaction. I would have noticed, but manna is not the same substance. Of course, it is literal manna from the heavens. But I posit this question to you: is manna bread? No, perhaps. It is a divine gift, yet under communion, we break bread in symbol of the body of Jesus Christ, as we drink wine as his blood. It is not transubstantiation as the Catholics believe, literally the true blood and body of Christ, but even under Protestant faith, manna might not qualify.”
Pawn was sort of enjoying this. No one cared about faith back home. He heard gasps, and Yirene covered her mouth with her hands, perhaps wondering if she had failed to properly offer true bread and wine. And Harvey?
He paled for a second, and his eyes flickered. He began to pace, but then he swung around and spoke haltingly. Perhaps with less certainty based on text than Pawn, but like a man feeling forwards. Searching.
“What you say…may be true. It may. Manna is not used in the act of communion, but as you say, we are not the Catholic faith. The bread is a symbol of belief, as is wine. Would a church lacking even wine or bread be a failure in the eyes of God for celebrating and worshipping him, even if they had but water and prayers? No. In the same way, Yirene embodies the spirit of our faith. Second—the churches of Earth do not use manna because they have none. This is divine, proof of our faith. If we are not perfect, we strive to be, and that is faith. Also—it is not communion, Priest Pawn. That is for children. This is the eucharist.”
There was a murmur, and people clasped their hands together. Pawn rocked back slightly as Harvey smiled, triumphant. Pawn hadn’t realized there was another word for the sharing of bread and wine.
I’m blaming that one on you, Ryoka. But he had to admit…well, darn.
He’s the real thing after all. Pawn had been wondering if the Prophet were an act. Certainly, he had appeared to have elements Ryoka had described as being like that of a ‘mega-pastor’, whatever that was. A charlatan using the word of God for his enrichment, but he had come back at Pawn with faith.
Now, they traded glances, and the Prophet sat again. He pushed the bowl of dates forwards after a moment.
“Your faith. Tell me about it, before we speak on undead and our righteous cause. I heard you did not claim to worship another God?”
“No. We are not Christians, but Painted Antinium. Our faith…has no one title. How should I describe—”
“Some might call it the Way of Heaven and Sky or the Faithful of Solstice.”
Ecclisi spoke loudly from the side. Pawn glanced at him and coughed.
“—Or that. It does have a ring to it.”
The Prophet frowned.
“So you believe in Heaven?”
“We do. But perhaps not the one you refer to, Disciple Harvey. We believe in Antinium heaven. That is to say, we wish for a Heaven for Antinium. We work towards a Heaven that all Antinium and those we love might enter when we die. But not in the Christian God. We believe your God exists, and we are open to any other faith.”
Harvey blinked in astonishment.
“Why? God loves all beings. He has a Heaven!”
Pawn hesitated and took a breath. Oh boy, here we go. He glanced at Marrieh, at Lazimeh, then spoke.
“Yes…he does…but is that Heaven, and is the Christian God for everyone? Or just Humans?”
The silence that fell over all present was sudden and absolute. Pawn went on as Harvey blinked at him.
“I studied the Christian faith, among others, and it seemed to me that all of them from Earth are for peoples of Earth. Humans. There was no Antinium written in the Bible. Adam and Eve were given custodianship of Earth. Earth, not this world. I did not see myself in Heaven, so I chose my own faith. And so without rancor—”
He got no further, because at that moment, Lazimeh threw himself at Pawn.
“Lies! Lies and blasphemy!”
He howled and tackled Pawn before Rabbitears tore him away. He tried to grab Pawn again, but the Worker leapt up. Pawn tried to shout, but a piercing wail filled the air, and he saw someone, Jilthread, falling to her knees. Wailing with sudden horror.
Faith shaken. Others were trying to get to him with a violent fervor, and the Prophet was shouting.
“Order! Listen to me! I have prayed on this and—order! In the name of God—”
This might be where they ran. The Painted Antinium closed ranks, and Ecclisi pressed his hands together as Purple Smile clotheslined several people.
“Pawn? What do we do?”
“Use your Skills if you have to! And pray for a miracle!”
Harvey was pressing forward, and his voice was growing in volume. Pawn saw him turn his eyes on the Antinium, and they were filled with wrath and a moment of doubt. Pawn held his gaze.
Am I wrong, Prophet? What are you doing?
Pawn’s hand stole to his club, and someone put herself between them. Marrieh. And her weapon was a club until she raised it, and then he saw white flames running down the length and forming a flaming sword.
“[Damn, that looks better than our Miracles.]”
Rabbitears checked his ordinary shortsword and glared at Pawn accusingly. The Priest muttered.
“Now I could really use some damn salvation!”
Ecclisi unclasped his hands.
“In Erin’s name we pray. Amen.”
Pawn whirled and then heard a pop—
 
——
 
They landed on the ground, and the city blazing with light and sound was six feet from them, the opening gates filled with pilgrims trying to see what was going on. They whirled as the Antinium stood, and Pawn turned.
“Alright, run.”
They didn’t ask questions, just ran for it. The People of God gave chase, but half-heartedly. Antinium might not be the fastest, but they had endurance, and soon, they were running through the desert roughly towards where Sand at Sea had gone.
“Well…that…sucked.”
Pie panted as they finally slowed twenty minutes later. Pawn glanced over his shoulders, but he saw no riders. The Prophet had either let them go or was too busy with that bit of internal schism.
“Perhaps I’ve ruined their faith for them and they’ll devolve into a hundred warring subsects and we’ll be done.”
He was hopeful, but he didn’t really think that would happen. The others gazed at him, and Ecclisi spoke, voice rapt.
“You were incredible, Pawn. Your ability to denounce and counter other faiths is inspiring to see with my own eyes!”
Pawn turned to him. Then he nodded at Purple Smile.
“Right, thank you, Ecclisi. I was going to save it until we were safe, but Purple Smile?”
Purple Smile smacked the back of Ecclisi’s head. Pawn smiled.
“Thank you.”
Then he seized Ecclisi’s antennae like it was an ear.
“You’re one of the future-Antinium, aren’t you?”
“N-no.”
“Don’t lie! What was that craziness about Erin? Your levels, your Skills, everything is different. Answer me!”
Ecclisi was trembling, not with fear so much as fervor of his own. Pawn groaned when he saw it.
Oh no, I thought the Prophet was the only one with crazy people, now look at this. We’re too similar after all. Ecclisi whispered.
“I was there when Apostle Pawn, the true Prophet, held the door to reality open to save countless worlds. He bade us go and make our own path, and so I journeyed here, that I might bring salvation to this world. I only wished to help bring you onto the true path you will find, Pawn!”
Rabbitears, Starfold, and Pie were giving each other very weirded-out looks. Pie tapped the side of his head as Pawn tilted his head.
“The true path being…?”
“Worshipping Erin Solstice, of course. Our Goddess. You are so close, Pawn! Heaven exists, and it shall be built. The sky is beautiful, but it is through Erin, not their foolish God, that all will be saved. Perhaps their God exists, but is he a loving God? Does he make pancakes? Will he be there with flag in hand when the sky falls?”
Pawn stared at Ecclisi, mandibles open. He let go of the antennae, backed away, and began striding off. Ecclisi followed.
“Pawn! Pawn, do not doubt yourself! You know it is the truth! Prophet Pawn saw it when she died and did not wake. You have been deceived by Erin Solstice.”
“[Deceived by Erin Solstice? What are you, stupid? Stop bothering Pawn—]”
Rabbitears tried to put Ecclisi in a headlock, but the Worker began running and started dragging Rabbitears behind him. He was so damn strong—Ecclisi shouted.
“It is a sign of her miracles! In our world, she did not wake, but in this one, she is fleeing her apotheosis! Is there anything she cannot do, Pawn?”
“Remember to put butter in spaghetti.”
Pawn muttered. Ecclisi ran up beside him.
“You may mock, but in your heart, you believe. I know it, Pawn. Let me tell you what I witnessed and what your faith could be!”
“No. I won’t get rid of you, but I’m not doing this. Not right now. We have a crazy Prophet to deal with—two Prophets, and I already got in trouble with Lyonette without even doing anything! Your Prophet is my enemy, got it?”
Pawn shook his fist in Ecclisi’s face, and the Worker halted.
“But Pawn. In my time, Prophet Pawn and Councilwoman Lyonette were in a loving relationship. They were commonwealth married. Whose is the true way if not his?”
Oh, like the Serpent of Eden, the words crept in under Pawn’s guard. Purple Smile grabbed Ecclisi, but Pawn hesitated. Just for a moment. He opened his mandibles, then coughed.
“Er…assassin.”
The Antinium peered at him, then whirled. Rabbitears drew his sword, and someone shouted.
“No, nonono, please!”
Gladys the freed [Slave] appeared, holding her hands up, and Pawn relaxed. He’d noticed someone sneaking up on them but hadn’t been able to see them. Just a tiny bit of faith.
“You’re Gladys, the [Slave]. The one from Earth. Are you running from the Prophet?”
Everyone turned to stare at him, and Gladys jumped.
“How’d you—”
“Earthers always act the same when someone talks about home. You get so good at noticing it becomes second nature. I take it you don’t want to be a part of the People of God?”
Gladys hesitated.
“You know other people from…? I didn’t know there were more. I’ve been a [Slave] since—since I—I came here because they said it was safe.”
Pawn held out a hand. He remembered Erin being captive and wondered…for a second, he felt those dark Skills calling for him, but his voice was gentle.
“It is safe in our company as well. Come with us and we will bring you anywhere you wish, Gladys. This Prophet of God is not the only one with faith.”
She hesitated, then took his hand.
“He’s…I don’t think he knows it all properly. But his people worship him. They’re building something; he calls it a sacrament. To summon an angel. They’re almost done.”
“Uh oh. That’s not good.”
Pawn tried to recall what he knew about angels, but all he had from Ryoka was a hazy explanation about Heaven and the one who guarded Eden. With a flaming sword. He eyed Gladys.
“I don’t know all about Christianity, just what I was told. What is an angel to you?”
They were moving, and Gladys shrugged.
“I don’t know. Do you mean an angel like in the books? Or in pop culture?”
“…The second one. It seems to me faith is based on belief. So what does the Prophet believe? What is an angel?”
She bit her lip.
“I’d call it a winged, Human-looking person. Male or female. A holy being, good, kind, and divine, from heaven. That’s one kind of angel. The other would be…the avenging kind. The one who has a flaming sword.”
“Good at fighting?”
“Yes.”
“Scale of one to ten?”
“…Ten? It’s an angel.”
Pawn glanced at the other Antinium. Without a word, he began to run faster and motioned.
“Gladys, we can carry you if you can’t run, and I’ll heal your scars. But we need to get to Khelt now. Ecclisi! You wouldn’t happen to have any knowledge of how to beat angels, would you? Or any super-Miracles from the future?”
Ecclisi hesitated.
“I was not the first of the Faithful to join Pawn’s call, um, Present-Pawn. Merely one of the many who served, and humble. The greatest amongst us could summon the aspects of the Centenium, call burning flames from the sky, and walk as tall as half-Giants. I was not there when you burnt nations to ash.”
Everyone turned to peer at Pawn, and he raised his hands.
“It’s not me! I mean, it’s one version of—so no super-miracles.”
Ecclisi shook his head.
“I’m only Level 37. A few of us went to the other group that needed us most. The 7th Hive. But as for angels, I know you can triumph! For ours is the superior faith! Your [Summoned Workers] surely already have the power to fly, don’t they?”
He held his thumbs up, and Pawn stared at him. Damn alternate-reality Prophets raising the bar! He ran faster and, by chance, came across Yellow Splatters coming back this way. Then began, well, an altercation between the two faiths and a lot of surprises.
For you see, faith begat faith. Just in ways neither Pawn nor the Prophet expected.
 
——
 
Harvey saw the schism begin as Pawn, who might well be a Devil in disguise, fled. His people were in chaos, denying, screaming, begging him to tell them it was a lie. Here was the problem: it was not.
That was why it burned them. It burned him like the fading poison in his veins, too, in guilt. It was the conclusion Jilthread had already come to as she wept. It was the omission Harvey himself had planted in their minds, a seed of weakness.
There were not Stitch-folk in the Bible. Nor…Heaven. He knew it too.
Perhaps Christianity, his Protestant faith of Earth, was only for Humans. What would his pastor say if he saw a Stitch-woman? Would he turn away from Marrieh? Perhaps—but then the outrage rose in the Prophet, and he spoke.
“ᴇɴᴏᴜɢʜ! ʜᴇᴇᴅ ᴍᴇ, ᴘᴇᴏᴘʟᴇ ᴏꜰ ɢᴏᴅ! ʜᴇᴇᴅ ᴍᴇ, ᴄʜɪʟᴅʀᴇɴ ᴏꜰ ʜᴇᴍᴘ, ᴄᴏᴛᴛᴏɴ, ᴀɴᴅ ꜱɪʟᴋ! ᴀɴᴅ ᴀʟʟ ʏᴏᴜ ᴏꜰ ᴏᴛʜᴇʀ ꜱᴘᴇᴄɪᴇꜱ! ɪ ᴡᴀꜱ ɴᴏᴛ ꜱᴇɴᴛ ᴛᴏ ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴏʀʟᴅ ᴛᴏ ꜱᴀᴠᴇ ᴏɴʟʏ ʜᴜᴍᴀɴꜱ! ɪ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴛᴏ ꜱᴀᴠᴇ ᴀɴᴅ ɪɴ ᴛᴜʀɴ ꜱᴀᴠᴇᴅ ʙʏ ꜱᴛɪᴛᴄʜꜰᴏʟᴋ. ɪꜰ ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ ɪꜱ ɴᴏ ᴡᴏʀᴅ ᴡɪᴛʜ ʏᴏᴜʀ ɴᴀᴍᴇꜱ ɪɴ ɪᴛ ɪɴ ᴛʜᴇ ʙɪʙʟᴇ ᴏꜰ ᴇᴀʀᴛʜ, ᴛʜᴇɴ ꜱᴏ ʙᴇ ɪᴛ. ɪ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ᴡʀɪᴛᴛᴇɴ ᴀ ɴᴇᴡ ʜᴏʟʏ ᴛᴇxᴛ. ɢᴏᴅ ᴋɴᴏᴡꜱ ʏᴏᴜʀ ɴᴀᴍᴇꜱ, ᴇᴀᴄʜ ᴀɴᴅ ᴇᴠᴇʀʏ ᴏɴᴇ.”
He ripped something from his new bag of holding and held it aloft, and they beheld it. It was unfinished, bound loosely with twine, written with smudged ink, but he held it with that sense of trepidation, triumph, and regret.
Ah, Martin Luther. He hadn’t actually remembered the name of that man until Pawn had spoken it. But here, once again, was the moment.
They beheld his New Bible, and the People of God did indeed break before Pawn’s admonition, but not into a hundred shards of faithless glass, but into a new people. Just like others before him, real or imposters they might be, Harvey had found his own revelation from God.
“We will be his people. And the Antinium is wrong, for all he spoke with conviction and wisdom. Khelt is ruled by debauchery and sin, and if we must defeat the Antinium as well as the King of Khelt, we shall.”
The Prophet spoke to his Disciples in the aftermath. Lazimeh was glowing with relief, literally, and Yirene was smiling. Jilthread hugged the first copy of the New Bible to her chest, but Marrieh was troubled.
“He came without violence. He seemed like a good man, Harvey. More than any others we have met on our long journey.”
“Marrieh, you are speaking to the Prophet! He is no longer in disguise! Remember that!”
Lazimeh scolded her, but she held her ground.
“I know. Perhaps it is a reminder we can be wrong and we are equals before God.”
The Prophet was thinking on Pawn. He hadn’t hated the [Priest] entirely either, but the Antinium had irked him as well. He was sanctimonious as well as cunning. But…
Only Catholic [Priests] can’t have relationships? Harvey glanced at Yirene, then Marrieh, then realized they were a new faith anyways. Rules to be written. He cleared his throat, avoiding their gazes, and stared at the light.
“We shall meet them with faith, as equals, but hold true to our convictions if we come to conflict. For now, let the word be spread and the sacrament finished. We have poured wealth into it; now let us build it the remaining height at all speed.”
Khelt had clearly sent for the Antinium. They needed to summon the angels. If Manoset’s summoned spirit had been powerful enough to threaten a Named-rank adventurer, this would grant them salvation. Someone had seen a flying undead watching them from afar. And there were rumors entire armies were marching on Khelt, sensing the King of Khelt’s weakness.
He seemed pretty damn strong to the Prophet, but it would be done. The man sighed and closed his eyes.
“Prepare yourselves for Khelt to threaten us, my people. But so far they have broken their mercenaries and hired soldiers upon us. There were barely more than a few dozen Antinium spotted, and their ship was nearly destroyed by our faith. If the Antinium come against us, they shall be found wanting.”
Who could stop them now? Of course, Harvey didn’t say that because it sounded presumptuous, but who in this world actually cared for this selfish, reclusive nation?
 
——
 
They came riding into Khelt unopposed. Mostly because Fetohep was slumbering, but also because they, of all people, had a right to be here.
The Vizir Hecrelunn and Sand at Sea didn’t stop them. The Vizir was busy firing spells at armies who looked up in horror at him, or they saw a ship racing across the desert and turning to unleash a broadside.
One shot warnings. The other aimed for the center of mass.
However, even the patrolling Centaurs and Gnolls didn’t stop the newcomers. They asked questions, then let them pass.
The strangers to Khelt had never been here before, most of them. They stopped to gawk at the Kheltians, admire the wondrous cities that were ‘ruined’, and then set off for the northern border.
Accompanying them were [Scrying] spells, which were aimed at the People of God. Nations tuning into the fall of Khelt’s greatness, but the newcomers rode.
They found the Painted Antinium forming a thin line of less than fifty bodies against the People of God. But like the Gnolls, they held.
“Halt.”
Yellow Splatters put out a hand, and the People of God halted. There was something about a huge Antinium Soldier speaking that made you think twice, even those with the power of God on their side.
“We do not want conflict with you…Antinium. By the will of the Prophet and God almighty, stand aside!”
“You will halt. Khelt is not yours to plunder. Do not advance.”
“Or what?”
There were thirty of the People of God moving in a group towards a smaller Kheltian town named Serept’s Smithy—they loved blacksmithing. They had made some new armor custom-fit for Yellow Splatters. Even a helmet for his head.
For such things, he planted his feet in the ground, and five Antinium faced the People of God. Yellow Splatters called out as Kheltians watched from their town, faces pale with fear, poised to run or just surrender.
“You will halt. Or I will punch you. Repeatedly. By the will of Pawn, the Priest of Heaven and Sky, you will go no further. If you disagree with this, bring your Prophet.”
Pawn wasn’t here. He was leading another group of Antinium on interception duty. The People of God hesitated.
They didn’t halt. They never did. Instead, a few of them edged left and right, as if to break past Yellow Splatters’ group. If they rushed, the six Antinium wouldn’t be able to catch them all, right?
Yellow Splatters held his ground until he saw a daring young man with an angry face make a darting movement. He ran left, ignoring the shouts of the lead [Cleric] to stay back, and the [Cleric] let the young [Faithful] run. Probably to test the Antinium.
What was his plan, run into the town and scatter the Kheltians all by himself?
…Actually, wait, that might work. Only here in Khelt would one man armed with a rusty dagger be able to scatter a town of thousands to the wind. The town had [Smiths] with arms bigger than Yellow Splatters’. But they were all so gentle.
Children. Yellow Splatters had never met people who looked adult but who were children, outside of other Antinium. So he let the man run forwards until he was dashing past the Antinium.
Then he pointed. And an Antinium Soldier standing behind him, Brightglow, burst into motion. He charged from his standing position straight at the [Faithful] young man, who shouted in horror and turned to flee. Too late.
The Antinium Soldier didn’t have the same sprinting power as the Stitch-boy. But he was still fast, and he came at a sprint which did not slacken. Unlike the young man, he had been made to fight and keep fighting. The [Faithful] was breathless after two hundred paces. He still ran fast, but if he was not sprinting…
The Soldier caught him like a linebacker from Earth.
“Help! Hubwag—”
That last part was more the sound someone made as an Antinium Soldier tackled you from behind and all the air left your lungs and you hit the ground with the Antinium on top of you. Perhaps the young man thought to fight back, because he had twisted before he fell, raising the dagger.
Brightglow ignored the dagger as it glanced off his armored cheek. He punched the young man in the face. Tore the dagger free with one hand. Punched the throat with his other hand, the young man’s nose. Then his four arms all kept punching as he sat on the young Stitch-man’s chest.
“God have mercy! Stop! Stop!”
The People of God were stunned, then they rushed forwards to halt the attack. They backed up as Brightglow stood barely a second later. The young man was crying out, groaning, but he wasn’t dead or even badly hurt.
The Soldier had gone for eight punches, then stood. Yellow Splatters spoke as the People of God hesitated.
“Your comrade isn’t hurt badly. If Brightglow wanted to hurt him, he would have holes in his face. I say again: halt.”
“You attack the People of God without provocation?”
The [Cleric] was roused to fury, and Yellow Splatters snapped back.
“I told you to halt. You ignored me. You have been robbing and attacking Kheltians on the road. We have been called to protect Khelt. Do not advance and there will be no conflict. You have taken their cities. Turn back. Or do you need to steal more?”
“We are not stealing, we are liberating this damned nation!”
“It sounds like stealing. Even Drakes don’t lie this blatantly. Step back and get your Prophet or your leaders.”
The [Cleric] stepped forwards, and Yellow Splatters felt the man’s faith grinding against his own. It was a hot, angry thing filled with wrath and condemnation. It felt like spikes driven into flesh, and Yellow Splatters could see a cross burned into his mind.
An image of what they were. What did they see when they beheld him? The People of God moved restlessly, and their leader advanced a step, glancing at their numbers.
“We outnumber you by far, Antinium. If you call the People of God to battle, you will be found wanting.”
The threat was echoed by his people’s voices, but the brown Antinium never moved. They stood, foreign insects on Chandrar’s soil, faces unreadable. Yet they, too, were a people of faith, and they unnerved the People of God because of that. The [Cleric] stared at the Antinium, who were like…like…
Darkness, then a burst of color splitting the despairing night, emerging, rising upwards. A miasma of colors. A promised land waiting high above. A beautiful sky. And standing under it, Yellow Splatters, hand raised up. Warning.
“You do outnumber us, man of someone else’s God. And I do not wish to be hurt or die so far from home. I ask you one last time. Turn back. I would hate to kill you.”
There was no fear in his voice, like the Kheltians had. No hesitation. The [First Heretic] and the [Cleric] locked eyes, and the Prophet’s man whispered.
“[Blind Foe].”
A Miracle. He threw it at Yellow Splatters, and the Antinium recoiled. For a second, he was blind. Then he spoke.
“[False Marvel].”
The Miracle—broke. The [Cleric] recoiled, eyes wide with horror.
“What? What work of the Devil is—”
Yellow Splatters shook his head. It turned out that the power of the Painted Antinium’s first sinner was worth something after all. He strode forwards.
“A pity. You were warned.”
“Retreat! Retreat, they have heathen powers—we are leaving! Stand back! [Smite Enemy]! Do not come forwards, do not—”
The [Cleric] shouted, and his cudgel began to glow with a pale white light. Which looked like it might hurt. Yellow Splatters pointed.
“[Unleash Sins: Gluttony].”
A tiny little grub flew from his hand and landed on the cleric’s face. The man screamed and flailed at it. He had just torn it off and was stomping on it when Yellow Splatters hit him in the face. The Soldier punched the [Cleric] three times, lined up a fourth punch, and the Stitch-man was already on the ground. Yellow Splatters kicked him slightly, then turned.
“Take him and—oh, they’re already running.”
The other Antinium halted their advance. Yellow Splatters watched as his tiny sin of gluttony crawled over and began nibbling at the man’s leg. He stomped on his sin and then shrugged.
“Okay, let’s roll him over there, and they’ll probably run back when they wake up.”
The Antinium nodded and continued their patrol. Yellow Splatters waved at the Kheltians, who regarded him in horror. And he knew Pawn was going to be upset, but sometimes…
“Sometimes, one must punch idiots in the face. Book of Erin, Chapter 7.”
Brightglow turned and hand-signed to Yellow Splatters.
“[Is that in the Book of Erin? I’ve never read it.]”
Yellow Splatters replied.
“Not yet. Pawn’s only up to Chapter 6. But he’d better write it in.”
He wasn’t nearly as charitable to these People of God as Pawn was. Yellow Splatters stomped across the desert, continuing his patrol. They’d put in twelve hours on the first day, with breaks, then trade off with other Antinium stationed across cities closest to the Prophet. Here they stopped. Yellow Splatters was worried about open conflict, but someone had to draw a line somewhere. And fortunately…they seemed to be gaining reinforcements.
 
——
 
Pawn didn’t hit anyone, but neither did he censure Yellow Splatters’ approach to halting the People of God. When he met the first groups sent by the Prophet, he did not draw his club, but he did draw that line in the sand.
“People of the Prophet, please go back to Harvey and tell him I wish to speak again. Until we are able to settle this with words, you are not welcome past this point.”
“We have been sent to preach the will of God to these heathen Kheltians! Your lies will not shake us, false witness! A New Bible has been written, as revealed to the Prophet! We are in it!”
A Stitch-woman shouted at Pawn, and he nodded at her.
“I am glad for you, truly. But as I said, stand back. We are the Painted Antinium of Liscor, and we are protecting Khelt.”
“You would pit your faith against ours?”
“Yes. Yes, I think I would.”
His tone was very mild, and some of this group hesitated, but the [Priestess]…they wanted to test their powers against his. He couldn’t blame Yellow Splatters for having to fight. She thrust a hand out as she clutched a New Bible to her chest.
“Sinner, I rebuke you! [Lance of Light]!”
So saying, a glowing lance appeared over her head and shot at Pawn. He tilted his head.
Looks a lot more painful than a [Light Arrow]. Mildly, and quite annoyed, Pawn lifted a finger. Only the one, because it looked better and to spite her.
“[Holy Barrier].”
The lance of light shattered on the prismatic wall that appeared in front of him. The [Priestess] hesitated, and Pawn lowered the finger. Raised the middle one.
“My turn. [Holy Hammer].”
The mallet that appeared and fell from the sky was a lot larger than the lance. And it fell with enough force to dent the very earth and send the nearest People of God stumbling backwards, crying out. It would have turned the woman to pulp…if it had hit her.
She stood there, staring at the crater in the earth as she picked herself up, and Pawn made shooing motions.
“That’s right. I’m more religious than you. Get lost. Bring Marrieh or someone with the ability to think next time.”
She fled, and in his way, Pawn supposed he was meaner than Yellow Splatters. But you had to admit, some of the People of God were annoying.
Not all. Marrieh, Yirene, some had seemed good and thoughtful. But others had been given power and wanted to use it.
Sixty Antinium, a line in the sand. Unlike the Gnolls or Centaurs, the Antinium met the People of God, and the other side turned back or found out what escalation meant. Pawn was telling each group he wanted to meet with Harvey, but the Prophet was nowhere to be seen. He feared that when fighting really began, his sixty Antinium would be forced to withdraw due to wounds fast. However—
The reinforcements were arriving.
“Pawn. Pawn, we have visitors.”
Starfold found Pawn, and the Antinium turned.
“Kheltians? I have not met this Heir of Khelt or gotten to see Koirezune.”
Somewhat to his disappointment, he got a shake of the head, then Starfold pointed, and…Pawn’s mandibles opened.
“Little Birds, is that you? What are you doing here? Did something happen in the Claiven Earth?”
The Antinium Soldier, who was one of Bird’s arch-enemies due to Bird’s entire ‘killing birds’ thing, waved a hand. And Pawn realized all six of the Antinium he’d left at the Claiven Earth were here…and fourteen half-Elves?
What on earth? Little Birds replied.
“The half-Elves rode us all the way here. Well, we rode magical Wistram carriages, but the Herald of the Forests escorted us. These are our new Painted, um, half-Elves, Pawn.”
“Say what now?”
Pawn stared at the fourteen half-Elves, who ranged from a kid that looked like she was barely twelve or something to a man with white hair. And to his horror, he realized all of them had some familiar paint on their features. He grabbed Little Birds’ arm.
“Ha. Haha. Hahaha. Let me just drag you aside, and what the hell are you doing, Little Birds?”
The Painted Soldier replied cheerfully.
“We showed the half-Elves our powers and healed some, Pawn. They liked our scrolls and ordered more, but we knew we had to catch up. A few of them wanted to join us, so I gave them our paint and—”
“Wait. Waitwaitwait, you let them join us?”
“Yes? What is the matter, Pawn?”
“What’s the matter? Where are they going to sleep? Where are they going to go? Do you think they’re going to follow us back home? To the Hive? Liscor? If the Free Queen sees them in the Hive, what do you think she’ll say? How do you think they’ll react to living there and eating Antinium paste?”
Little Birds closed his mandibles and gave Pawn a severe gaze.
“I would not give my worst enemy our food, Pawn. We could give them apartments in Liscor.”
“True, but—we’re Antinium.”
“And? We believe in Heaven, which you told us is open for everyone, including little birds, puppies, cats, and our friends who are kind to us. If it is for all these people, how is it not for half-Elves? Are you being racist, Pawn?”
Much like Harvey, Pawn was confronted with deep theological questions he wasn’t prepared for. He hesitated.
“No, I’m not. And it’s speciesist, Little Birds. Get it right. Let me try this another way. Excuse me! Hello, I am so pleased to meet you. I’m Pawn. Er, do you know what you’re doing?”
The half-Elves were staring around Khelt, looking a bit saddle-sore, confused, and worried like they didn’t know what to do. Entirely understandable for people who’d left their nation to journey in the company of probably-insane Antinium. Pawn thought he was insane right now, but the oldest half-Elf bowed.
“It is an honor to meet you, Priest Pawn. Forgive us, but we asked to be inducted into your order. If there is some test or oath, we would all swear it. But let us learn your ways. We have the permission of the Speaker of Trees and all the Tree Guides of our cities.”
“…But why join us? We’re Antinium. The Black Tide. Horrors of Rhir. Insect-people. Bugs!”
The other Antinium shifted, and Rabbitears hand-signed to Pie and Starfold.
“[That’s pretty rude.]”
The half-Elf just nodded at Pawn.
“We’re aware of the risks, but I, personally, deem it worth any stigma, and I believe everyone who asked to join understands the danger, Priest Pawn. I would like to learn your powers, your beliefs. I am Bliesfri. This is Sheena, Culstroi, Alamadri, and…”
He introduced the half-Elves, starting with the youngest of them, and Pawn studied them. Only a few had the faint glow of faith. Sheena, the youngest, with the most strength. Bliesfri had actually none at all, but he seemed passionate on another level.
“I do not understand. You do not seem drawn to our faith, Bliesfri. Can you clarify your desires?”
The half-Elf shifted and brushed at his hair.
“Ah. I didn’t realize faith was such an integral part of it. I hope to study your faith, and yes, if I am able, practice your…beliefs? Forgive me, I don’t know the nature of it, but my interest is both scholarly and practical. If I may be candid?”
“Why stop?”
The half-Elf grinned, and Pawn wished that didn’t make him seem so much younger and more friendly.
“I was amazed by your power to heal, Priest Pawn. In this age where Eir Gel is gone and healing is now a scarcity…when I saw your people had so much of it, I thought that someone had to learn your ways. If I manage to gain enough levels to heal reliably, I would return back to my people and share this knowledge. Respectfully.”
Oh, it was the most honest and pragmatic reason Pawn could think of. He doubted it’d work without at least some faith, but someone wanted to study the Painted Antinium? Someone thought they were worth emulating? That was more than any Drake or Human in Izril.
“Well…drat. I cannot argue with that. You are welcome to join us, Bliesfri, though I warn you, true belief is a requirement to faith classes, I believe. Yet you may find it in your way. But I object to children! We are in a potential warzone!”
He pointed at the twelve-year old girl, Sheena, and she cried out.
“Hey! I’m sixteen!”
Pawn jumped, then remembered. Half-Elves. Damn it. He glared at her.
“That’s still a child in half-Elven years! Why are you here? Your family can’t have thought it wise for someone so young.”
She stared up at him earnestly, brimming with the makings of true faith. Even more than some new Painted Antinium had.
“My da objected. But my ma didn’t. She would be dead if your people hadn’t healed her. That’s why I came. You saved her life.”
Pawn turned to Little Birds, who whispered.
“Disease. Very bad.”
“Oh. Well, um. That’s a pretty good reason. However, I’m sure I’ll think of a good counterargument in time! Until then, I am going to back away from this conversation. Someone welcome these half-Elves and find them a place to sleep.”
Pawn ended up watching the fourteen half-Elves mingling with the Painted Antinium, asking what to do, and being told it was mostly praying, following Pawn, listening to sermons, and trying not to die when the next disaster happened.
He resolved to tell his people there was more to their faith than that, but then Pawn was informed another group was coming his way. This time from Reim! Salted Pork and thirty recruits. The King of Destruction had told Salted Pork to bring Pawn and let him leave, and the Soldier had ended up with a bunch of followers.
“Oh dead gods.”
 
——
 
For one shining moment, it felt like the Painted Antinium had found their place in the world. They strode across Khelt’s dry lands, and the people cheered them. They ate glorious food in the most beautiful cities in the world, and they were beloved and their faith pushed the People of God back.
Seventy-two versus six thousand. If not all at once, the People of God did halt.
Even Marrieh. The People of God came in waves, testing the Antinium’s faith, but they were not found wanting.
Pawn himself spoke to the Stitch-woman, who halted across from him with nearly four hundred followers.
“Marrieh, this is not your land to despoil.”
“That is not our intent, Priest Pawn. But neither will we leave it when so much harm has been done to us.”
“You were first to invade, Marrieh. Tell Harvey that I am willing to meet him, but we will not allow you any further. Please, turn back. I would not wish to hurt you.”
Pawn had barely a dozen people with him, but Marrieh was the one who hesitated and stepped back. When her followers protested, she snapped at them.
“We will not make war against the Antinium without reason! They have offered us no violence.”
“What about Silked, who was beaten by the Soldier?”
She rolled her eyes and glanced back at Pawn. He calmly waved his censer over the ground as some of the Faithful studied him, as if gauging whether they could take his group.
“We will not throw the first blow, People of God. You must come as the aggressors. And unless I mistake my faith, that is not excusable by any words of God. Let they who are without sin step forwards and be punched in the face. Amen.”
Whether it was his own faith, which exceeded all but the Disciples, the foreign nature of the Antinium, their calm defense—or the fact that they could and would hit you until you fell down—the People of God halted for a time.
And Khelt celebrated them. Therein lay a problem, you see. Yellow Splatters found Pawn two days after they had come to Khelt.
 
——
 
“Pawn, I think I hate it here.”
Pawn was staring at a mirror in one of the luxurious homes they’d been granted. It had a mirror, amenities, and full plumbing. It was so rich, in fact, that he didn’t know what to do with anything and kept poking around inside.
He’d found some hair-growth tonic and had been wondering if he should grow a beard. That seemed very distinguished. Pawn looked away from the mirror.
“Hate it here, Yellow Splatters? Why?”
Khelt was beautiful. Just the other day, they’d made special bread like Garry’s for Pawn and had him eating prosciutto while lounging on some chairs and talking about Izril. Music, art, everything was so beautiful in Khelt, but Yellow Splatters?
He stood there, patently miserable.
“It’s too rich, Pawn. Why are we here, defending Khelt, when we could be in Liscor? They don’t deserve all of this wealth. They’re…spoiled.”
Pawn lowered the hair-growth tonic, and his antennae waved at Yellow Splatters. Not in disagreement, but sudden, gentle understanding.
“Oh. Yes. They are.”
He didn’t hold it against the Kheltians in the same way, probably because he was used to Lyonette, who had opinions and was a [Princess]. But when Yellow Splatters told him that a lot of the Painted Antinium felt the same way, Pawn realized there was a growing crisis developing in his ranks.
A crisis of, well, faith. Faith in Khelt.
Too rich. It wasn’t like Antinium had much class consciousness; everyone was richer than they were. But Yellow Splatters and Pawn came from the Hive, where a normal Worker or Soldier could go on 16+ hour shifts and, if they weren’t dead, get 7 hours of sleep and be expected to do it again the next day. When Pawn checked out the Kheltians’ schedules…yeah.
Most of them got ten hours of sleep.
Ten. Not ‘they got ten hours on weekends to catch up’, no. They slept ten on average and became grumpy if they didn’t get more. That sensation you had when you woke up and wanted to curl up in bed and not have to get up for anything?
Kheltians loved that feeling. They indulged in it. In fact, a vocal group of protesters were angry because skeletons didn’t carry food to them in their beds, forcing them to wake from hunger.
What Yellow Splatters hated was the food. He showed Pawn what he meant; it was a waste bin in Khelt, which was normally emptied out by just incinerating the contents or skeletons would bury it in farms.
With their lack, lids had been fashioned, and an official had to empty it out, much to their horror, but it contained, well, food. Kheltians tossed anything they didn’t want to eat inside.
Like an entire cake. With orange frosting. It was a carrot cake, and Pawn stared at it for a long time as it sat on top of a bunch of slightly overripe Prelons.
“…What’s wrong with the cake?”
“I don’t know. It appeared this morning.”
They peered at the cake. It was an entire cake. Two feet wide with a middle layer of some kind of sponge cake, which was blue, and it wasn’t even touched.
“Perhaps it’s been made wrong. Or underbaked.”
“Who could tell without taking a bite?”
“Ah, there are Skills for this kind of thing, Yellow Splatters. That’s surely what it is.”
They were saved from having to guess by a [Baker] opening the back doors to ask if they wanted something to eat. He owned the shop nearest this disposal bin, and when they asked, the [Baker] glanced at the cake, very surprised, and waved a hand.
“Oh, that? I made it. I had to toss it, you see.”
“Aha! Because you substituted sugar for salt or something else hilariously simple?”
Pawn was relieved, but the [Airy Baker], who specialized in, well, voluminous projects that didn’t fill your stomach as much as dense foods, waved a languid hand.
“No, no. I just hated the color. You see that blue middle with the orange top? Ugh. I don’t know what I was thinking. Horrendous; I’m making a new one for sale. Would you like to try it? Then I can say I served the Antinium!”
He was excited, but Pawn and Yellow Splatters stared at the perfectly good cake in the bin. Both thought to themselves…
We know how much a cake half that size would cost in the inn. Even Lyonette can’t serve it normally.
What a waste. Yellow Splatters would have secured the cake, despite the [Baker]’s horror at eating soiled food, but as it so happened, someone else beat him to it.
“[Oh, look! A cake! We’re eating good tonight, lads.]”
Rabbitears and six Antinium hurried over and emptied the food bin. The Soldier took the cake as most of the other food, from the Prelons to even half-eaten dishes, was emptied into a bag of holding. The horrified [Baker] watched along with the two Antinium leaders until Pawn spoke.
“Rabbitears, what are you doing?”
“[Getting food.]”
The Antinium Soldier innocently took a handful of cake. Pawn pointed at the [Baker].
“But we have Kheltians who can cook for us.”
Rabbitears visibly hesitated.
“[Yes…but they have so much good food, very tasty, in their trash bins! It is a waste if no one eats it. Plus, it is free.]”
It transpired that over half the Painted Antinium were just eating out of the trash bins. It beat the nutritional paste, and like Yellow Splatters, they objected to the food waste. But that wasn’t all.
For their…reputations, Pawn didn’t like the idea of the Antinium eating out of the trash bins. The Kheltians were welcoming, and the Painted Antinium were risking their lives. They deserved to be spoiled a bit. But then they got onto the topic of the trash bins themselves, and it turned out Rabbitears and company were emptying all the ones in the city.
And sweeping. And clearing out insect nests. And—when Pawn went storming into the city streets, he found Starfold and Pie emerging from the sewers, covered in filth.
“Hello, Pawn. We are cleaning.”
“Why? We’ve been halting the People of God all day!”
The two Antinium glanced at each other and shuffled their feet. Pawn saw a number of Kheltians ducking out of sight and realized the Antinium had been clearing a clogged drain that had been bothering the neighborhood for the last two weeks. Pie answered for Pawn.
“Well…it is not very hard, Pawn. Someone should do it, and we know how since we work. We were thinking, Starfold and I. Maybe we’ll live in Khelt instead of going back home. It is not very difficult if we work.”
Pawn stared at them, and Starfold nodded repeatedly.
“The [Mayor] offered us permanent homes if we act as cleaners and bug-disposal experts. It is a very good job, Pawn. We could send more Antinium here. Thousands.”
“Thousands. To clean and sweep for the Kheltians.”
Pawn’s antennae were shaking a bit, and the two Painted Antinium nodded.
“It is a very good deal, Pawn.”
“It is…if we are lesser than the Kheltians. Just like Liscor. This is—”
Pawn turned, and he saw Yellow Splatters was triumphant and vindicated and unhappy. Pawn whispered.
“This is just like Liscor, isn’t it?”
Only worse because they liked the Antinium. Even if they treated them the same way. And when he saw that, Pawn hated Khelt. And there was the crisis.
 
——
 
It was not that the Antinium resented work. It was not that Pawn thought that some moving to Khelt as workers was the worst. It was just that simple feeling of jealousy.
Kheltians were born with everything. They had spoons of literal silver and gold from birth; they wanted for nothing. Then here came the Painted Antinium who had fought and suffered and struggled for everything they had. They came to paradise on Earth, a practical Heaven in mortal lands, and they were jealous.
Who could not be? It did not help that the Kheltians were all too eager to ask the Antinium to do all the jobs that they didn’t want to do. Pawn flatly spat a refusal at the [Mayor] and several officials sent from the capital.
“We are not hired help. We came at King Fetohep’s request to aid Khelt, not clean for it. The Painted Antinium will not be performing any more labor. You will have defenders of your kingdom or menial servants. Choose.”
Faced with that stark option, the Kheltians backed down fast enough, but Pawn had to instill discipline in the ranks. He ended up arguing with no less than Purple Smile, who disagreed with his decisions.
“It is not our job to clean up for the Kheltians, Purple Smile!”
“[They do not know how to do these things. They offer us everything, so what does it hurt?]”
The Painted Soldier signed back. Pawn snapped as the Painted Antinium watched the two arguing, nervous.
“It is demeaning to us! They treat us like we are lesser than them!”
“[That is what you feel. I do not feel demeaned. Maybe some Kheltians are arrogant, and if so, we do not have to work for them. But most are innocent, not evil.]”
Pawn jabbed a finger into the table he was standing across from Purple Smile at, where a slightly-dingy carrot cake had been in the middle of being divided until he told them they should eat a new one or not at all.
“The Painted Antinium did not create Heaven and leave their Hive to go back to working like common laborers, Purple Smile.”
The Painted Soldier was, uncharacteristically, not smiling. He signed back emphatically.
“[Are we above that, then? Is there no one in Heaven who can empty a trash can, Pawn? Because that is a very ineffective Heaven.]”
—The Antinium didn’t know what to respond with. So he just growled as he grabbed the cake and hurled it out the window.
“As far as I’m concerned, Khelt is rapidly becoming less of a heaven than a nursery for a bunch of spoiled children! If you want to play nanny to a bunch of immature, lazy, empty-headed Mrshas, be my guest!”
He was striding towards the doors when Purple Smile shot back.
“[If Mrsha never did a thing in her life, she would have deserved all the spoiling. It is not their fault they were born happier than we were, Pawn.]”
Of course, Pawn didn’t see that since his back was turned. He stormed out of the mansion-house, fuming.
 
——
 
The resentment of Painted Antinium wasn’t universal. Plenty regarded all of this as a fun holiday or held Purple Smile’s beliefs. But Pawn’s motivation was lowering when it had to be high.
He was almost glad he wasn’t the only Antinium who saw things that way, either. Not every Painted Soldier had Purple Smile’s attitude.
Seventh Voice was predictably vocal as well about his discontent.
“I do not like Khelt’s ways. They are very greedy, and the People of God? Not that violent. Not all of us are having to fight like Yellow Splatters. If you talk to them, they embody a lot of the beliefs we do. They gave me free bread.”
He was arguing hotly with Pie and Rabbitears, who were far less charitable to the Prophet’s people after their experiences. Rabbitears signed hotly.
“[They shot us off the ship!]”
“Yes, but no one died, Rabbitears. They thought they were under attack. They were the ones bombarded by Fetohep, you know.”
Pie poked Seventh Voice in the chest hard.
“After invading his lands! You’re getting on my nerves, Seventh Voice. Don’t make me shove this pie somewhere you’ll regret.”
Seventh Voice bristled, and some of his friends poked Pie and Rabbitears back.
“Don’t get mad at me for saying what’s true. What do the Kheltians give us? More work. The People of God have free, edible bread. And unlimited wine! The Kheltians can’t even sweep a broom, whereas the Stitch-folk are all Hemp. Narratively, who’re the good guys here? The rich Kheltians or the Hemp who had to fight for their freedom?”
Pie threw up all four of his hands.
“Narratively. Listen to this idiot. Khelt’s on our side.”
“Well, they’ve got a funny way of showing it.”
“That’s it, Rabbitears, hold him down, I’m gonna put this rhubarb pie—”
Seventh Voice was raising his fists as the two groups bristled when Pawn pushed between them.
“Enough! No fighting!”
They desisted, but Seventh Voice grumbled.
“I’m just saying—”
“Seventh Voice, I hear your complaints and agree, but Fetohep of Khelt has done more for The Wandering Inn and the world than we can count. I am displeased about our being asked to work as well. Pie, Rabbitears, do not quarrel.”
All the Antinium backed up, but Seventh Voice had to have the last word.
“Fetohep does a lot for the inn, but what about us? We came here for other people’s debts, Pawn.”
“Seventh Voice, take a walk.”
The Antinium hesitated as Pawn glowered at him, but then he stomped off with his buddies. Rabbitears apologized, but Pawn just shooed them away.
“Go eat a pie or something.”
They’d all calm down, but it underscored the Antinium’s tensions. Pawn felt even more annoyed than before because Seventh Voice wasn’t wrong—just annoying about it.
As if she was aware of this fact, perhaps from experience, it was then that Pewerthe, the Heir of Khelt, came to call with Alked Fellbow in tow.
She was not what Pawn expected. In his mood, he would have probably given Fetohep of Khelt the rough side of his mandibles, but the undead ruler was still slumbering. By contrast, the [Potter] was a working woman, or as much as you got in Khelt.
“Priest Pawn, I understand your people have been working for Kheltians as well as defending us. I have instructed all Kheltians to halt this embarrassing display at once, and I offer you my sincerest apologies. Khelt is…a difficult land to love for those not born to it. We are rich to excess, and it sickens. May I offer you some sincere tokens of our appreciation? This is Named-rank adventurer Alked Fellbow.”
The Stitch-man looked like a harsh, imposing figure, but when he bowed and offered Pawn a hand to shake, Pawn realized he seemed scarier than he was. And Pewerthe had brought actually thoughtful gifts. Namely…he blinked.
“Wait, are these censers?”
They were! Replicas of his own censer, armor for the Antinium, and even, to his great astonishment, clothing.
It wasn’t full-body. Some were loincloths just in better cuts of cloth, but others were suits, experimental pieces adapted to the Antinium form. Pewerthe explained.
“We know that full, heavy clothing makes Antinium feel unwell, so the [Tailors] of sixteen settlements have worked on these as gifts to you. As for the tools—we thought to copy what you carried. The Painted Antinium of Izril might have use for them, even if there are too many for you.”
It was an actually thoughtful gift. Pawn touched a beautiful jacket made for an Antinium body, then turned to Pewerthe. His anger over the way the Kheltians had been interacting with them subsided, and Alked Fellbow nodded to him.
“Khelt is my kingdom as well, Priest Pawn. It is hard to love at times. But it can be rich. I have asked for the Gnoll tribes to join us, and Herdmistress Geraeri’s herds likewise. Khelt has much music and art to share.”
“I regret that the Painted Antinium have very little of either, Adventurer Fellbow, but we would be delighted to view all Khelt has.”
Pawn ducked his head and was surprised by the man’s smile.
“I believed this was the case. So, then. The Gnolls, Centaurs, and Kheltians are among the best [Poets], [Musicians], and [Composers] in the entire continent. Anything you lack can be made.”
“And surely, the Antinium deserve the finest.”
The [Potter] smiled, and Pawn’s mandibles opened. Then—he heard the first songs composed for Antinium about Antinium. Songs meant to speak of Heaven, of things only Antinium knew. Invented by shy Painted Antinium and multiple species sitting together and riffing, and he thought…
Oh. I must bear these songs back home. I should have taken Singy. He’d love it here.
 
——
 
All his anger became grudging wonder when he heard Kheltians sing. It was Pewerthe’s doing. She strode into the cities and reminded the Kheltians that the Antinium were not just guests who could do them favors.
“These are His Majesty’s guests! Khelt’s honored guests! The first group of Antinium to ever set foot in Chandrar—they have come to see Khelt’s wonders. As belabored as our kingdom is, shall we send them back home without masterpieces of our art?”
She chivvied sulking [Writers] out of their homes where they were terrorized by ants, had [Chefs] throwing open their restaurants to cook food in Antinium styles, not just what they knew, and then…Pawn smiled.
He smiled for the first time he heard an Antinium’s clicking being turned into the centerpiece of a new song that Zamecthe Kheltian from the Gnollish cities was working on. Something new the Painted Antinium were incorporating into their faith, their culture.
Not just the music; the half-Elves, and other new Painted Folk were all part of this change. Coming to Khelt had done so much for his people. Pawn began to relax, and what did sell him was Gladys.
The Earther who had left the Prophet’s camps was a nervous, reclusive figure even when she’d reached the Kheltian cities. She’d creep out of her house at late hours, hiding her scars, and steal food. Lots of it. Then she’d vanish. Pawn had met with her several times to heal her scars, but he could not heal her heart so easily. He thought she trusted him a bit, but Pewerthe…
She called upon Gladys at the same time as Pawn with a simple request.
“I would like to remove your [Slave] class, if I am able, Gladys. I thought to file paperwork and pay off your debts, but I think it is better to keep you hidden.”
The [Slave] stared at Pewerthe, stunned.
“Y-you can do that?”
Pawn recalled Lyonette telling him about the power of royal classes to remove classes, and he felt stupid for not thinking of it! For answer, Pewerthe stepped into Gladys’ house, and a figure floated down and into the building.
“She cannot, as she is merely the Heir of Khelt, without class. But this Vizir Hecrelunn is the likes of royalty capable of all things. As is his superiority in magic, though he is wasted in such menial tasks. I see a tracking spell. I erase a tracking spell. Now the class.”
Hecrelunn’s crimson gaze swept over Pawn as Gladys squeaked. Pawn warily nodded to the Revenant.
“Hello. You must be the terrifying and rude Revenant, Vizir Hecrelunn.”
“You must be Antinium. Is it your species’ condition to state the obvious?”
“Only when speaking to simpletons, yes.”
The Vizir paused in reaching for Gladys’ head, and his eye sockets flared. Pawn saw Pewerthe smile, then thrust a hand out.
“You are to behave yourself, Vizir!”
“Do not order me around, you pathetic chit of a girl.”
He snapped at her, and she folded her arms.
“I am Heir of Khelt. The mortal embodiment of Khelta’s will! You will be polite to our allies.”
“I should rip out a fingernail for each offense and remind you what power means. You waste my time defending Khelt for a mere [Slave]? You think a ‘Named-rank adventurer’ can stop me, even two?”
His eyes flashed wrath at her, and Pewerthe stared up at him.
“I do not even have time to guess at whether Frieke and Alked could, Hecrelunn. Torture me if you must. I am Khelta’s will. Her living, mortal will just as she once strode Khelt’s sands. If you wish to trample on this last memory of her, be my guest.”
His mouth opened in outrage. He lifted a finger—stared at Pewerthe—then turned and grabbed Gladys by the head.
“Stop squirming, mortal. I shall remove this class. Roshal’s power is simple to undo if you have the spirit for it.”
Pawn made sure Gladys wasn’t uncomfortable before giving Pewerthe an admiring look. She winked at him sidelong. Hecrelunn just flew out the window minutes later, and Gladys sank to her knees, tears in her eyes.
“I think we should give Gladys a moment, if she is well, and send someone empathetic and caring to stay with her.”
Pawn agreed. He called for Purple Smile, and Pewerthe summoned a [Thought Healer]. Then they walked through the city celebrating the Antinium and spoke.
“I hope you do not hold how we act against us, Pawn. I lived outside of Khelt growing up, so I know how it feels. We are rich and spoiled. But most of us are not…wrong. Does that make sense?”
“I think so. Much of what I objected to came from a place of my own anger, but your people were not malicious. I know maliciousness.”
Liscorians had stoned or attacked Workers on the streets. Even now, they could be unpleasant. The Kheltians were not like that, and Pewerthe smiled, faintly proud.
“It is the act of our last three Kheltian rulers, including Fetohep. Most think it is how Khelt has always been, but sometimes we were truly a horrible lot. Fetohep’s people are not overly arrogant, lazy, or even that wasteful. It is a difficult thing for a Kheltian ruler to accomplish and, I think, his greatest act. Even Xierca was not so talented, according to my books.”
“Really? I thought of him as fairly infallible. A king of limitless culture and power and…”
She shook her head as they listened to Antinium click-songs being broadcast from a central square.
“In truth, Fetohep has the wrong class. Xierca was a true queen of the arts. She was a [Minister of Culture]; many great structures and creations were raised in her time. Fetohep…he has many flaws. Every ruler of Khelt does. I think I would have hated most of them. But he cares for his people. Not all of them did.”
“Really? Again, I find this hard to believe.”
Her lips quirked. She was such a plain person, with her potter’s apron and a once-broken nose, compared to some of the Kheltians. Her hair was black and tied back, whereas many Kheltians dyed their hair and wore insane alchimagical creations of hair. Floating tresses of hair that trailed behind one and clothing of every fashion…
He realized that Pewerthe was deliberately dressing simply. Because that set one apart in Khelt. The quality she had that other Kheltians did not was that smile. It was mysterious, suggesting she knew more than she was letting on.
“Look at King Dolenm’s time, Pawn. Sand at Sea is his legacy, and to hear the crew tell it, Dolenm loved being a [Pirate] more than ruling. Some of Khelt’s rulers were selfish. I…don’t know what ruler I shall be. I don’t wish to think on it. Fetohep will wake, and I am merely filling in for him. If he were awake, I think he might offend you, but you would be far better served.”
Impulsively, Pawn shook his head and took one of her hands.
“Fetohep commanded my attention even half a world away, but that was because of his deeds. I did not know him, and I thought him fairly arrogant, Pewerthe. But you have shown me Khelt should be liked for Khelt. Not just its riches.”
She smiled, eyes lighting up at him.
“Well, I’m a mere [Potter] with a few secrets. I have no power like yours. This faith…can anyone learn it? I never had talent in magic, combat, nor even etiquette or speech. Fetohep has tried to have me tutored in all these things, but I cannot do any of them well. He claims he was only good at fighting, but he had centuries to learn the rest. But faith…I think I can believe.”
There was frank envy in her eyes, and Pawn found himself pulling his censer out so she could marvel at the metal that seemed beyond even Khelt’s artifice.
“It all looks beautiful now, but this used to be two simple colanders stuck together. Faith is a small thing, Pewerthe, but it grows. I, um, I would love to tell you about it. Over dinner, perhaps?”
She paused, tilting her head as Yellow Splatters stumped down the street to find Pawn. The Soldier halted as Pewerthe glanced around.
“I must be back to the capital soon. But what if…we could go there, and I could send you back later? I know all the restaurants there, and they can’t turn me away right now.”
Pawn hesitated, but then nodded. Pewerthe grinned as she led the way back towards an enchanted carriage and horses that Frieke was leaning against. The two were chatting animatedly as Frieke yawned and hopped in the driver’s seat. She paused as Yellow Splatters approached.
“Oh, hello. Are you coming with us, Captain Splatters?”
The [Captain] glanced at Pawn and Pewerthe and noticed Pawn giving him a few hand-signs to go away. But he lingered and murmured up to Frieke. Something had occurred to him just now.
“I am not going with them. I just have a question, if I may?”
“Sure. I mean, I don’t know much about Khelt, but go ahead.”
Frieke blinked at him, and Yellow Splatters glanced at Pawn and Pewerthe again. Then he coughed.
“Pewerthe is the Heir Apparent of Khelt, correct? Then, is this position analogous to that of a…[Princess]?”
The Dullahan woman thought about it.
“It’s not quite the same, but I suppose, yes, you could say it like that to Terandrians. Why?”
Yellow Splatters nodded a few times, then eyed Pawn inside the carriage. He saw the Antinium raising his mandibles and sighed loudly.
“Just asking. I suppose every great leader has a few terrible, embarrassing foibles.”
The Named-rank adventuress grinned at Yellow Splatters.
“Oh, sure. You should meet King Perric of Medain. Compared to him, Fetohep of Khelt and Pewerthe are wonderful. Actually, most people are wonderful compared to him. He once tried to induct me into his harem.”
“If I knew what that was, I’m sure I would be very upset.”
Frieke explained, and Yellow Splatters frowned.
“Oh. As most Antinium aside from that one in there are not sexual, I still lack context, but it sounds unpleasant. How did you avoid that?”
“I told him Konska comes with me. Even in the bedroom. And what he doesn’t see, he pecks.”
The Seahawk opened his curved, big, sharp beak and winked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium smiled, and Frieke heard a pointed knock from the inside.
“Anytime you’re ready, Frieke?”
“Yes, ma’am. Anything else?”
She turned to Yellow Splatters, and he sighed again.
“Only that I now understand why every good religion should have a good antagonist. It is for the benefit of all.”
So saying, he yanked the door to the carriage open, and Pawn and Pewerthe jumped. Pawn glowered, but Yellow Splatters just pointed the finger of hellfire and damnation.
“Pawn is a sexable [Rogue], Heir Pewerthe. Do not listen to his honeyed words. He is very clingy in relationships. And he sulks when he is rejected.”
He closed the door to the carriage and stepped back—Frieke whistled, then saw a blast of something blow the carriage door off. It missed Yellow Splatters, who jogged off as Pawn shouted insults from within. He was going to tell all the Painted Antinium about this. Frieke began driving, grinning.
 
——
 
It couldn’t last. Regardless of what some Antinium got up to in their private time, for all the marvels of paradise, it was a short break.
Faced with the Antinium presence, the People of God grew restless. They called upon the one person who could lead them, and so he left his city and went south, and his presence called the Antinium’s leader northwards. Like magnetic ore drawn to each other, they were to meet. Two sources of energy meeting. The resulting conflagration would pave the way forwards. If they survived.
Each side growing. Only a handful of Kheltians had joined the People of God, but some had begun to join this group that seemed more powerful than the King of Khelt. And the same for the Painted Antinium.
Faith begat faith, you see. Harvey did not flinch at the news that the Painted Antinium had grown to a hundred strong.
“I shall meet again with this Priest of Heaven and Sky, and we shall see whose faith is truer. Our conversation is not finished. He has Kheltians on his side, including Fellbow and this Frieke the Falcon?”
Two Named-Ranks might even the odds, and the skeletons were still a marginal threat, but they had vast numbers. Harvey was confident that with either a hundred or two hundred, Pawn’s group would be literal ants before the flood until Jilthread whispered.
“His numbers have grown more than merely a hundred from other nations, Prophet. At least two dozen may be…be from our camps.”
Harvey turned, and his astonishment became wrath in a heartbeat.
“Traitors to the faith?”
“They were shaken by the revelations Pawn spoke, Prophet. They seek the faith the Antinium spoke of. A heaven for everyone.”
“God’s heaven is for everyone! Have I not written it in the New Bible?”
Harvey grabbed the copy and shook it at them, but Jilthread just drew a veil to her face.
“I believe, Prophet, and so do all those here. But—Heaven is a place for those who love God and who follow his commandments, is it not?”
“Of course.”
She nodded, hesitant.
“Then, there are those who felt they had already violated some precept or—the Antinium Heaven does not seem to have the same requirements. They doubt, so they waver.”
Harvey gaped at her, then cursed and declared he would give a sermon now and that the [Priests] of each camp should preach to their people lest they be led astray.
Perhaps this Antinium was the tempter. Harvey would meet him in the open, without fear, and they would see whose faith prevailed. This was holy and righteous.
A true holy war as had occurred when the Crusades happened. If only they had armor and weapons to match. Soon. The Prophet glanced out the window at the beacon of light.
“How close is the sacrament to finishing?”
“The last level is underway, Prophet. And the faith is collected…what need be done after that?”
He didn’t know, not entirely. His Miracle had not come with explanations, but Harvey was resolute.
“Then we shall pray, Marrieh. Those who gather around it shall pray day and night until it opens.”
He had built a kind of pyramid-type structure in the desert, a tiered base encrusted with the riches of Khelt, but not a full pyramid. It opened in the center, forming an arch which rose twelve stories tall. In stone, it towered high, and the [Light of Faith] hung in the opening. It was…
A gateway. And the Prophet felt that it was almost ‘full’. Soon, it would be openable. He bared his teeth.
“We meet the Priest. Be ready for battle!”
He strode for his tent to find his best robes, but when they did meet, the Priest and Prophet, for a second time, Harvey did waver and recoil when he saw the other reinforcements come to Khelt. For they scared him far more than the ant-man and his foreign faith.
It was said of Jesus of Nazareth that he performed miracles where he walked. In the desert, he strove with the Devil’s temptations, and he preached to all those who would hear him and worked God’s wonders. Yet when he came back to his hometown, he performed little acts of wonders and spoke softly.
It was hard to be judged by home. And there, standing with the Antinium, seeing it all, were—
The Earthers.
 
——
 
There were four of them. Four out of a larger group that they claimed were watching, but were scattered.
“Some are in Reim, Hellios, or all over. The King of Destruction lets us roam. I think he’s hoping some of us join up, but we’re split. Truth is, none of us really want to turn into Teres or Trey.”
“Hey.”
“No offense, bud. But you’re kind of a crazy dude. And the rest of us saw what happened to George.”
Trey turned to Lloyd, who stood with Maximillian and Alanna. Four Earthers, each one unknown to Pawn. Each one from a different country and so—different from the Earthers he knew. Lloyd was Canadian. Maximillian was Dutch, and Alanna was from Hawaii, which was technically American but not, for reasons he deemed too complicated to ask on first meeting.
And Trey…was Flos Reimarch’s servant, the [Chaos Schemer] and [Sand Mage]. He was accompanied by bright red sand-Golems armed with iron swords and shields.
He had come for battle. The other Earthers had come to observe. Maximillian nodded at Trey.
“We wanted to meet you because you’re Antinium, and we heard Erin Solstice’s words. This all seems to be tied to Gods. But we’re not going to fight like Trey. We’re not with him.”
Trey wore a pained expression as the three Earthers stood apart from him, but he nodded to Pawn.
“I’ve come to support Fetohep and Khelt. Flos hasn’t sent me. He knows I’m here, but I’m acting of my own free will. I’m willing to fight to defend Khelt. They just want to meet the Prophet.”
He jerked a thumb at the Earthers and grimaced. Pawn opened and closed his mandibles.
“So you’re all from Earth.”
“Yep.”
They chorused, and Pawn hesitated.
“And you share this information freely?”
Alanna smiled sweetly at him.
“Hard to hide it, at least for us. Everyone can tell, and His Majesty informs everyone. What, do they hide it on Izril? Everyone in Wistram knows; we assumed it was common knowledge by now. The [Mages] gossip a lot.”
None of the Earthers around Liscor talked about Earth openly. It was a known secret among anyone connected strongly to The Wandering Inn, and probably a lot of regulars had some inkling, but this lot was so brazen about it it felt wrong. Pawn surveyed them.
“How many of you are there?”
“Only a dozen or so. Fewer since George got killed. Poor guy. And Elena hopped ship in Hraace to join the Horns, but everyone knew she was going to leave sooner or later. She was just so worried about us that she hung around. But she’s crazy. A different kind of crazy than Trey, a’course…”
They really didn’t like Trey Atwood. Pawn didn’t understand why until someone referenced the Wistram breakout, and he realized Trey was the one who had let Archmage Amerys loose. It actually endeared him a bit to Pawn; the Antinium knew what it was like to be the ostracized one of late.
“Well, I am glad for any support you can render. What are your classes?”
The three Earthers glanced at each other as Trey smirked. Lloyd shrugged, embarrassed.
“I’m a [Mage]—we all got lessons in Wistram—and a [Foodie]. What can I say? They have good eats.”
“The name’s Max, not Maximillian. I was a barista back home, and I’m a [Coffee Maker] here. Too low-level for [Barista], and it’s mostly making coffee.”
“I’m a [Surfer]. But there’s no coastal nation who likes Reim except Hraace, and we had to leave.”
They were all exceptionally low-level compared to Trey, who was a dual-class expert with powerful Skills. Powerful enough to have Lifesand Golem bodyguards carrying that blood-red armor made out of something called ‘Lifeglass’. He twirled his staff idly.
“I use sand magic, and I can disrupt plans. I can conjure four Lifesand Golems, not including Minizi, of this size. They’re not fast, but they can fight. Use them as expendable fodder. I wish I had a Lifeglass Golem, but it takes too much blood, and Flos got the last one smashed. You can count on me for support, not the others. I’m the most familiar with this world, Pawn. I know Khelt and how to act. I’ve got training and some artifacts.”
“Just no friends. Even your sister left the continent to get away from you.”
Max shouted at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] glared back. Max cupped his hands for increased volume.
“You were a nice guy. I even felt bad for ‘Worm Guy Trey’ until it turned out you were just the King of Destruction’s little hench-toad. Now you’re acting like you’re the hero. ‘Look at me, I’m Trey, I’m the better twin because I shout at the King of Destruction. I’m the good British imperialist’.”
“Ooh, nice burn. Hit him with another, Max.”
Rather deliberately, Trey paced away from the other Earthers, and Pawn resolved not to get on Max’s bad side. The [Coffee Maker] seemed to have an insult Skill, or that was just natural talent.
“Would there be any chance of the King of Destruction and actual armies coming?”
Trey shook his head, seeming pained as a shorter Sand Golem that looked like a miniature Gazi strolled over, hefting a claymore on one shoulder.
“It’s a Kheltian matter. You don’t want Flos coming here. I…look, putting aside my differences with the other Earthers, we all think the Prophet’s strange. I want to see what he’s like.”
On that, they could all agree. Alanna raised her hand as they came back over.
“I’m really curious about him, honestly. I was raised Protestant, evangelical, and he sounds like some kind of dogmatic nutjob. I didn’t want to get near him, but now he’s invading Khelt, and it’s a nice place.”
“Rich.”
Lloyd commented neutrally, and Max kicked some sand.
“Weird too. The King of Khelt—I met him, but he’s as creepy as the Quarass. They’re all old-fashioned rulers. We have a warlord, a billionaire-monarch, and a creepy child with a thousand-year soul. And all of the Kheltians like Trey, so they’re compromised.”
“Max, I could hit you.”
Trey suggested with a smile, and Lloyd not-smiled back at him.
“I bet you’d do that too. You do that to anyone who doesn’t agree with you, pal? Hit me as well. Sounds like the King of Destruction to me, for all you claim you’re different.”
Okay, Pawn felt like it was time to play the peacemaker here, as entertaining as this was. He held out a hand.
“I would be delighted if some of you joined me, and perhaps Trey could join Yellow Splatters? We have much ground to cover, and the Prophet is coming. He’s up to some kind of sacrament-ritual. Summoning a being of great power. Alanna, would you happen to know about that?”
She hesitated as Trey nodded, face tight.
“Um. Summoning actual beings of Christianity?”
“Yes. They don’t do that on Earth, do they?”
“…No. What kind of beings? Like, the four horsemen of the apocalypse?”
Lloyd whistled.
“Wait, are those from Christianity? I thought they were from something else.”
“Revelations, Lloyd. It’s why it’s such a famous image.”
They began walking with Pawn, and the bemused Painted Antinium made the acquaintance of the Earthers as Trey strode off. Pawn tilted his head, noticing how they eyed him. They were playing it cool, but he clearly unsettled them more than other species.
“Excuse me, what are these four horsemen?”
Were they just four people on horseback? That wasn’t dangerous. Alanna smiled ruefully, brushing at some dyed blue hair.
“Er, the harbingers of the end-times. Death, Pestilence, War, and Famine. The literal aspects of each. No, wait, I think one of them was changed? Conquest instead of Pestilence…hold on. I have it in the app somewhere.”
She flicked out a smartphone, and it lit up as she hit a few buttons. Lloyd glanced at her as he continued the explanation.
“They’re supposed to ride when the end of Earth happens. Biblical armageddon. I didn’t know you had an app with, what, the Bible on it? There’s a Bible app, Alanna?”
“Of course there is, Lloyd. My father made me install it when I got my first phone…”
Pawn really didn’t like the sound of that. He started walking faster and pulled a speaking stone up.
“Pawn to Yellow Splatters. I am sending Trey Atwood to you. He has sand-Golems and can fight. He’s an Earther and will help us defend Khelt. I have three Earthers with us.”
“Excellent, Pawn. I have the new Painted…People in teams. Not to fight, but with each squad. Shall we push forwards?”
“Yes, about that. There’s a tiny possibility that the Prophet might be able to summon the four horsemen of the end of the world. So…let’s push.”
“Ah. This sounds like a plan.”
They marched forwards, and the Prophet met them in the sand. Faith vs. faith with only God as their witness.
And all the people tuning in on television.
 
——
 
Pewerthe watched the Priest of the Painted Antinium and the Prophet meet on live television. She couldn’t stop it.
She tried. At first, when the scrying spells started appearing, she told the [Mages] to block them, and they did. Kheltian magic was strong. But Wistram was casting with advanced scrying spells, and there were just so…many.
Grand Magus Recime told Pewerthe it wasn’t a question of even ability, they literally could not block that many scrying spells. So she’d asked how Khelt kept such spells away.
“If this were a city, or the palace, we’d have permanent ward spells that can block any number of spells, but those require us to set up the enchantments, Heir. If we had to stop them without? Ordinarily? His Majesty would just—inform each nation to stop. Lest they suffer Khelt’s wrath. But now…”
Stop scrying or I’ll send an army of skeletons at you. Pewerthe had called for other methods. Artifacts.
There was a lead bell you could ring that shattered magic in Khelt. They had Scrolls of Magical Dispersal, Scrolls of Anti-Scrying, amulets, a Black Jade Orb of Nullification, the treasures of Khelt.
Sixteen artifacts had activated. She’d burnt twenty scrolls, one of the artifacts had shattered due to the magical backlash, and still, the [Scrying] spells kept coming. Pewerthe had ordered Recime to stop.
“We need the magic more. Halt. Enough.”
Khelt let the world watch, and that was a blow in and of itself, but Pewerthe had no magic to waste. Not today. So she watched as she called Sand at Sea to come to Koirezune, just in case.
The Prophet of God was not as imposing a man as she’d thought. He strode forwards in his regal white robes, gold and white silk fluttering around him as thousands of People of God advanced over the sand.
Pawn was a lone figure holding a simple wooden club in one hand and that curious censer in the other. He was Antinium, an insect, but he had a quiet confidence the Prophet lacked.
They met on the sand, and the three Earthers drew closer. Walking across Eternal Khelt, which looked oh so much like the unforgiving desert, all flatness and barren earth. Yet even here, it was only dead land to those who had never seen deserts.
Distant cities dotted this flat ground, and there were gentle channels dug in the earth such that there was shade, and thus vegetation, however sparse. And roads; just out of view were Khelt’s main roads, which were flat, smooth stone that a child could follow to each city. In the distance, within walking distance for any Kheltian, were the settlements where life thrived.
Even if you came here lost, naked and afraid, you could not walk within Khelt without finding a welcoming city blooming with water, life, and art. Oases without end in paradise. Yet where the People of God walked, by the same token, they could strike at any point within Khelt. An open fruit of a land, which had never known true attack or war.
This was where they stood, then. Amidst the illusion of barren land between respites. They greeted each other warily, but with that longing across every face to know they were not alone. The children of Earth for each other, and the [Prophet] and [Priest] for the divine.
Pewerthe realized, for the first time, Earthers were speaking, not caring or even aware they were on camera. The world watched.
 
——
 
Lyonette spat her lunch onto the table and coughed.
“Wh—how is—Pawn!? How is he—”
She leapt up, still choking on her food, and Mrsha ran for the [World’s Eye Theatre] as the inn exploded into chaos. Bird threw up her hands.
“He went to Chandrar and he didn’t bring me?”
The Wandering Inn, totally off-guard.
 
——
 
“Khelt is weak. Look, that’s the Prophet of God in Khelt. They can’t even stop him. Full march! Get me to Khelt on the double!”
King Perric roared as the final doubts lifted from his mind. Yet he stared at the Humans, frowning.
“Those three. I’ve seen them. Our [Spies] had them in the company of the King of Destruction and Hraace. What the hell is going on with them? And who is this Prophet?”
He searched for answers, a monarch slow on the uptake.
 
——
 
Everyone in Manus’ High Command war council had gone still. Dragonspeaker Luciva drummed her claws on the table. The war room had been abuzz about the Antinium being allowed in Chandrar, speculations as to the Painted Antinium’s capabilities. Half the war council regarded this as a disaster—the other half saw it as an opportunity to assess the military value of the Painted Antinium, who were still an unknown despite the Hectval war.
But the Earthers—Luciva didn’t like this at all, nor their proximity to the Antinium. She barked at her people.
“Could those be Earthers? All of them?”
“Impossible, we’ve only found a handful—”
“Do you think the King of Destruction knows? Surely of anyone, he has to.”
Manus was a Walled City, and it had gotten the intelligence about Earthers via Fissival and Pallass. They were aware a few other nations knew, and Wistram had been handing out the information to select clients and allies, but this…Luciva muttered.
“They’re too far for a retrieval team, surely. Do we have any assets in the region…?”
Getting them across the sea was ludicrously hard, but she had to imagine every other big player aware of the Earther connection was gearing up for a grab. Not everyone knew. Who’d know in Chandrar? The Empire of Sands—maybe. Nerrhavia’s Fallen? It didn’t seem so, for all their size. Reim, yes, Khelt, yes, apparently, Roshal, yes. But so few nations. Terandria and Izril had the most players.
 
——
 
From Kaaz to King Nuvityn’s company of Erribathe to the Walled Cities and Meeting of Tribes, they recognized the Earthers and were on high alert. The rest of the audience had no notion of who the Earthers were, but some might have recognized a pattern. A lot of oddly-dressed and mannered Humans of late. What did this connection have to do with Khelt’s woes? The Prophet?
Then—Lloyd spoke.
“Hey there, er, hi, friend. You’re that Prophet of God, right? The name’s Lloyd. I’m from Canada. This is Max and Alanna. You’re from home, right? Earth?”
He held out a hand, and the Prophet, eyes locked on Pawn and burning with a fervor—stumbled. The People of God slowed, and some gasped at this divine meeting of providence.
Dozens of powerful people swallowed their tongues as Lloyd smiled warily live, on television. Archmage Eldavin calculated whether or not he could tank Wistram News Network and every other news broadcast worldwide and if it was worth the costs.
Many, many people reached for a map, or dictionary, and tried to look up a nation they’d never heard of, a secondary definition for…
Earth? Do they mean the Claiven Earth? But they’re Human. What do they…
The Prophet of God’s face was colorful. And the commentators trying to introduce who he was and why this mattered to Khelt…they didn’t know his class. They didn’t know what faith was, much less his.
He looked like a cult leader, you had to admit. Fancy robes, people who dressed alike speaking gibberish, and mostly…it was the fact that he was a man.
A Human man. Not overly tall or handsome or intense, someone who could lead an army or crush a boulder with their bare hands. Many gazed upon him and thought, ‘is this it?’
The dialogue between him and the Earthers and Pawn didn’t help; it was a fascinating puzzle for so many. Harvey blustered, reddening.
“Who art thou, and—I am the Prophet of God. I once was a mortal man, like you. From home, yes. But I have found my calling, and I lead the People of God. Have you come to join us? We are laying waste to this wretched kingdom of undead and hedonism.”
Lloyd blinked. Harvey spoke like a man who considered his words important, as if each word was capitalized and underlined. Lloyd? He shoved his hands into his pockets as Maximilian and Alanna stepped forwards.
“Nah. I don’t think we’re doing all that. But hey, I’m glad you survived, Prophet. What’s your name?”
There it came, the reddening of the face. The eyes flashing with self-importance until the Prophet caught himself. Then he nodded, which surprised Lloyd.
“I am…Harvey. I was Harvey. So many call me the Prophet. It’s who I am now.”
“Like your class?”
Harvey hesitated as Marrieh watched the Painted Antinium. Pawn’s head was tilted as he let the Earthers go first, but the People of God were restless. Hanging on these words as they came from their cities. Hundreds.
Lots of them. And—Pawn glanced over his shoulder. There were Kheltians observing in the distance. Barely more than a few hundred undead led by Death Commander Lanodest. Gnolls, Centaurs, and somewhere, he was sure, Frieke and Pewerthe.
This was it, but…he touched the club as Harvey bowed his head.
“Levels, class. Each time I level, I think I draw closer to God. It is no false claim, that. I was never a spiritual man on Earth. Here? I feel my faith. I speak and the earth shakes. I lay my hands on the wounded and they are healed. That is faith. But I do not just embody the acts of God. I see it. I see you, Lloyd. A man without much faith.”
He passed a hand over his eyes, then glanced at Maximillian.
“And you—just as weak. If not a hatred of it. But you—”
Alanna. He pointed at her, and she withdrew slightly, but Harvey was staring at something inside of her.
“You have the faith. Even if it is not nurtured. I see it. The waning hearts of men and women and…”
He glanced at Pawn, and the two locked gazes. Harvey whispered.
“Here comes one with faith beyond measure. This is my crucible and test, as Jesus returned home to Nazareth. You have come to stop me from my holy work.”
“About that. Your class sounds like a real bummer, Harvey. I knew there was something weird about them I didn’t like. Maybe I should have not taken them at all, but…look, we’re not with Khelt. We heard it was doing bad from Trey, and we came to stop this from getting out of hand. We get you made this organization alone. Huge work, really. Most of us were just captives of Wistram until now.”
Lloyd’s voice was soothing, calming, but he was doing that thing where he was a bit too reasonable. He sounded like he was talking down to Harvey, rather like someone talked to a child. The Prophet eyed him.
“Captive at Wistram? I recall some [Mages] interfering with my people—truly?”
“Oh yeah, nearly a hundred of us. They were collecting us like Pokemon. You, uh, know Pokemon?”
“…Yes. Who wouldn’t?”
“Just checking. Some of us are from as early as 2017, others years later. You sound like you come from, like, 1917.”
Lloyd’s bright smile produced a flash of anger in Harvey, so Max hurried to take over.
“Listen, Prophet. Can we talk in private or something? Just tell that lot to step back. Otherwise, it’ll be a fight. You can’t just…topple a nation.”
“This nation is led by a murdering undead king!”
“Yeah…but it’s a fantasy world. Actually, I don’t know about the murdering part, but King Fetohep was pretty nice to us. Whereas your people seem to be robbing everyone on the roads and acting like religious zealots. C’mon, we’ll get a coffee and talk this out.”
Lloyd and Maximillian advanced, trying to take Harvey’s shoulders, but his eyes snapped to Pawn, then he snarled and knocked their hands away.
“Begone! I am not—negotiating. The King of Khelt has killed my people by the thousands. He is working with the great enemy, and I will see him destroyed. The people of Khelt will not be harmed, I swear it. But I will not fall for this blatant trickery.”
Lloyd frowned.
“Okay, come on, dude. We’re trying to be reasonable.”
He was reaching for the Prophet again when Marrieh stepped forwards, but Harvey motioned her back. He knocked down Lloyd’s arm again. This time, Lloyd went for a grab.
They were not the most athletic duo, so it was a struggle as Harvey snarled, curled, and the two wrestled. Lloyd tried to put an arm around Harvey’s neck and put him into a headlock.
Two young Humans wrestling in the sandy ground. Right up until the Prophet’s head was being levered down, and he spat, red-faced.
“Enough! [Rebuke the Ignorant]!”
There was a flash—Max recoiled as he went to help Lloyd, and the light tossed Lloyd through the air. He flipped around, slammed down onto his back so hard the wind went out of him, and stared at the sky.
“Heb.”
He didn’t have the air for anything more concrete. Max seemed ready to try the Prophet, but the man had had enough. He lifted the staff he carried and drew it across the ground, and a line of flames arose. White, hot, and sending everyone but Pawn recoiling. Harvey spoke as they illuminated his face.
“You may be from our shared home, but we are not the same. I am the Prophet of God, not Harvey. I lead my people to vengeance. To the end of Khelt. Stand in my way and I will treat you like another sinner against God. Look upon the powers He has granted me!”
He lifted his staff high and spoke.
“[Miracle of God: True Light—]”
The audience actually didn’t hear the rest. Because a bolt of lightning, a real bolt of lightning, hit the ground and blew everyone off their feet.
Lightning. Not [Lightning Bolt], which you could dodge, or even [Grand Lightning], which was close to the real thing.
A lightning bolt coming down at 270,000 miles per hour. Every [Mage], adventurer, and warrior who’d seen real magic in battle knew the difference in a second. It made the watchers on Khelt’s side shrink back, and the People of God began to chant.
“God is Almighty! God, glory to god, Hosanna in the highest!”
The Prophet stood, staff raised overhead, glowing with power and a kind of ecstasy at witnessing his own miracles. Pawn began to step forwards, but then the last Earther approached him. She held a smartphone in her hand, and unlike the two skeptics, non-believers, she bowed to him.
“Father. Prophet? I’m Alanna, from Hawaii. I’m a believer of the Lutheran church. May I speak with you?”
He hesitated, and her faith was illuminated by no divine light. Just the electronic light of a smartphone.
“Alanna. I…yes. Hawaii? I’m from America. Kentucky. How did you come here?”
An expression of such immense pain crossed Alanna’s face for a second before she smiled.
“Then we’re both from the same country. I was in Chandrar before Wistram found me. Far, far west of here along the coast. Funny, I came back to the same place after all was said and done. I’m…I believe in God. I’m not a strong believer. It was through my family, but I’ve been to church every Sunday, and I’m curious. May I speak with you?”
“Of course. I can see your faith. Not strong? It is stronger than many of my flock.”
He lowered his staff, hesitating, abashed. And Alanna brushed at her dyed hair.
“Yeah, well. I guess it got stronger after I came to this world. When you’re alone and you don’t know what’s going on, you pray. Even if no one ever answers you.”
Harvey planted his staff in the ground. Pawn helped Lloyd to his feet as Maximillian rubbed at his ears, and they listened.
“I know that feeling well. I was the same. I was lost in the Great Desert. Zeikhal. I didn’t know where I was nor what to do. I prayed, and water came to me as I was dying of thirst. God spoke to me. He…didn’t to you?”
“Maybe I didn’t pray loud enough. I wasn’t in danger, mostly. Just homeless for a bit. I was in a city first, Zwaic, then a village. The village was safer. And I stopped praying once Wistram found me. I guess…I never heard him. But you called down lightning. I guess I’m curious whether or not it’s God that’s doing all this.”
Affront, confusion, anger—and worry crossed Harvey’s face. But he did not smite Alanna like Lloyd. He just held one arm out.
“What else could it be? Alanna, I welcome you to join the People of God. If not at this moment—then seek us out and learn. We have the power to heal, to call down fire on our enemies. Even to summon…”
He hesitated and glanced over his shoulder.
“What could it be if not the work of God?”
She tilted her head.
“I don’t know. It looks amazing. And it doesn’t seem like magic. I’ve hung out at Wistram long enough. But Prophet…you went to church back in our world, didn’t you?”
“…I was not as devout as you.”
He murmured, and the People of God saw his face turn to guilt. But he had admitted this to them before. Alanna, though. Her eyes fixed on the distant [Light of Faith], his raiments, and she nodded.
“It’s not supposed to be a contest. I just mean…no matter how much my family and I prayed, nothing ever came true for us. Nothing like this. I believe in miracles. I believe in Jesus Christ who died for our sins. But no pastor of mine ever called down lightning. Do you think…it feels to me like either this isn’t the faith we know or there is a God. But he’s only in this world. Do you see?”
Her hands clasped together, and they were trembling. When Harvey heard her, he recoiled. For she cut with a knife far more dangerous than the one Lloyd had come with.
“I…understand your fears, Alanna. Truly, I do. These are not the miracles accessible to men and women of Earth. Perhaps we are blessed in this world, or perhaps…there is a different force that gives faith power here. For these are the powers of the Old Testament. I know. But believe me when I say that I do not think they are fake. I believe, and that belief fuels everything I do. Perhaps the rules are different on Earth, and if so, I do not know why. Perhaps God had different standards for our world, and this is where they are needed. Or perhaps it is some other power, acting as God.”
Another stir in the listeners, and this time, Pawn was as uneasy as the rest. But Harvey’s voice was surprisingly gentle.
“All I know is that I act in God’s will. I hear his voice in my heart, and I pray to make righteousness manifest. Does that answer your questions?”
She gazed at him, and Alanna clasped her hands together over her heart.
“Yeah. Thank you, father. That was a better sermon than many I’ve heard. I think…I can believe in that. I want to believe in that. I think you helped me find my faith.”
She smiled, and he reddened faintly as she bowed to him.
“It’s nothing. If there is anything you need, my people or I will help you. We come from the same world. All of us. Truly, despite our differences…I will help you. And if we find a way home, I…I want to tell my family I’m alive. I should like to bring us all there.”
In that moment, he became another man again. From the devout cult leader to a wrathful being of strange powers to someone…Human. The Earthers regarded him, and all of them nodded. Alanna took a breath.
“I’d like that too, Prophet. There’s just one thing before that. Lloyd’s right. Thank you for speaking to me about faith. But I do not believe ending Khelt is God’s will. That is the one thing I disagree with, Prophet of God. I have studied the Bible, again and again, and there is no passage in it about the undead. Nor do I think Khelt deserves ending.”
She lifted the glowing smartphone in her hands, and the Prophet stared at it, and his lips moved. Then his eyes came alight, and he stumbled back.
“You have it. The Bible?”
“Well, the app.”
“Hallelujah. God be praised. I must study it. I had only my memory. Please…”
He was reaching for it when he hesitated.
“—What do you mean there is no word against the undead? There are demons. Legion, the devils that haunt the world, six hundred and sixty-six of them, the sins he embodies. Greed!”
Alanna calmly held up the phone.
“There are no devils named in the bible, Prophet. No undead. The Bible does speak about greed, but it does not tell us to make war on kingdoms. Does it not say ‘love thy neighbor as thyself’? Matthew 22:36-40? That is the second greatest commandment, Prophet. You have come into this nation with the holy word and the sword, and I do not think that is righteous.”
“It is righteous like the Crusaders, who went into the desert to liberate the holy land!”
He snapped at her, and she frowned. Maximillian spoke up.
“Um, you mean the Crusades? That’s your comparison? They slaughtered a lot of innocent people, Prophet. That was about wealth and power as much as a holy war, I’m pretty sure. And weren’t the people the Crusaders fought Muslim?”
“Yes. And?”
Maximillian scratched at his chin.
“Both groups believed Jerusalem was the holy land, didn’t they? I’m no expert, but it seems to me that’s a really bad example. People have been killing each other in the name of religion for thousands of years, and you want to do it again? The Kheltians were nice to us all. They have no crime here. They never harm anyone except to hurt your feelings about how you dress. And you came in here, beat them up, stole their possessions, and you want to tell us you’re the good guy?”
“Amen to that.”
The Prophet glowered at Pawn as he shot back at Maximillian.
“They’re being led by a murderous king! Khelt is the richest nation of Chandrar! They embody the sin of greed! Alanna, this, at least, is obvious.”
She was flicking through her smartphone and spoke.
“It says in Timothy 6:9: ‘the love of money is the root of all evil’. Desire to be rich is a temptation that leads to lusts, destruction, perdition.”
“Exactly! Thus—”
She glanced up from her smartphone.
“Kheltians don’t love money, Prophet. They barely use it. True, they’re rich, but I have met Fetohep of Khelt. He doesn’t care about money. Wistram cares about money. Most people do, but I think the King of Khelt would get rid of his riches in a heartbeat to better his people. If there were any man who cares nothing for wealth, it’s him.”
“But his land is rich…”
“Richness is not something we should covet, Prophet. I’ve been visiting Kheltian cities. They live in fear of your people. None of them want violence. I was told it was your people who initially came to Khelt, led by an exile. It does not sound like they struck your people first, whatever King Fetohep has done.”
Marrieh flinched at that, and then someone, Yirene, came forwards to whisper in her ears. She was shielding her face from above, in a terror.
“Marrieh, Marrieh! They’re scrying us! An ally to my house in the Court of Silks contacted me—”
“You’re still in communication with Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Tell them to cancel the spells. No, wait—how many nations?”
This would surely put a target on the People of God and Prophet, but it was not that dire for them. Marrieh was trying to think when Yirene held up a tiny scrying orb.
“Everyone, Marrieh.”
And the Prophet was under siege. From three sides, now, as Lloyd and Maximilian returned to the argument. He was remonstrating with Alanna.
“God paved the way for our entry into Khelt, Alanna, child.”
He and she both seemed to think that calling her ‘child’ was wrong, and he grimaced and stopped doing that.
“—The light of our faith destroyed the undead. As I said, it is not mere greed that has led us here. We have kept almost none of the treasures, sacrificing them to God and using them to buy what is needful. The King of Khelt worships the archenemy!”
“Which enemy, Prophet? As I said, there are none listed in the good book. Everything after that, Lucifer, Satan, Legion—these names are extrapolated from the texts or written by other figures. They are not part of the original bible. Perhaps they’re all just…delusions.”
“They worship that king like a God, Alanna. There is only one, and him we glorify in the highest and tear down other false idols!”
She lifted the smartphone in her hand, and now she did appear annoyed.
“But the Old Testament makes references to other Gods! Other faiths! It never told us to make war or that there weren’t even other religions or deities! Only that ours was above all. This…this sounds like an excuse, Prophet. That is what my faith tells me. I don’t have your class, but this is wrong. That’s why I came here. I’ll pray with you, but I cannot in good conscience let you keep doing this. That is what God tells me.”
There was a hiss of voices from the side, and Alanna flinched as she turned and saw how many of the People of God were watching her with outrage. Some with uncertainty. Harvey’s eyes were flickering, and he was drawing breath to speak when Lloyd jumped in.
“Listen, Harvey. I’m going to be a bit aggressive here—”
“Why stop now?”
Harvey glowered at him, and the Canadian raised an admonitory finger.
“You think I’m being unpleasant, man? Let me tell you—this? This isn’t cool. No one’s saying it because you’re speaking like some evangelical nutjob, but that’s the thing. Tons of us Earthers heard about you, and none of us came by to say hi and shoot the shit. You know why? You have to know why. Unless you’re living under a rock in America, this sounds like every mega-pastor, scam-artist, cult nutjob operation back home. People of God? Coming in and attacking innocent people and trying to start, what, a holy war? Do you have any idea of the history of Christianity doing this? You’re not actually as crazy as I thought, so you have to get how this looks.”
“Lloyd, shut up a moment.”
Max interrupted Lloyd as Harvey turned redder and redder, and the young man from the Netherlands took a breath. He flashed Harvey the smile of an overworked barista behind the counter.
“Listen, Lloyd’s mad. But he’s not entirely wrong. He’s just saying it wrong. Prophet, you’re making religions look bad. I’m not Christian myself, but I know people who are. They’re not waving flaming swords around, they donate, do fundraisers, volunteer. This?”
He turned to the People of God and shook his head.
“…How did you even get to this place?”
Alanna was hesitating. She wanted to keep this to an argument about theology. But the other two Earthers were arguing on different levels. Harvey glanced between the faces and stepped back. But not to run.
“Lloyd, Maximillian, Alanna. I see now you have come with good intentions, at least two of you. But I say to you again: you do not understand. You come here, judging me with your pre-conceived notions. You assign ill intent to me, and perhaps I am to be judged, but not here. Not now. How did the People of God come to be? They heard me preaching the way of God, and they followed. There was nothing nefarious about it. I healed the hurt and gave aid where I could. It was not perfect. But in every way, it is how we are meant to glorify God. Look.”
He swept an arm back, and the People of God were thousands strong now. The Painted Antinium, sixty in number, stood like a line in the sand as the Kheltians watched. More of the People were coming, flooding from their cities. An army. Harvey’s voice rose.
“These are the people of Chandrar who embraced faith! Humans, Garuda, other species, but Stitch-folk most of all. They come from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Hemp who are mistreated and cast down by the other cloths. Treated like slaves, second-class citizens. I have walked that land and seen them beaten or whipped for getting in the way of a Silk noble. I called that unjust. Some are [Slaves] who escaped to join us. I did not turn them over to the [Slavers] of Roshal even when they sent their thugs and assassins in the night. They are people who have starved in cities as no one lent them a hand. You may judge me and my character. But do not judge them.”
His brown eyes flashed, and then there was something the three Earthers could not so easily argue against. Max’s mouth closed, and he stared at the Stitch-folk as Alanna half-nodded, clasping her hands before her chest. Lloyd just glanced at the People of God.
“So you took desperate people, sold them a line about salvation, and sent them against Khelt? That doesn’t excuse a thing, man.”
Harvey swung around, and Lloyd backed up. The Prophet pointed his staff at the Earther, and it glowed. The mere wood illuminated from within, unlike an enchantment, as if it were glass, and something filled it.
“Prophet, don’t—”
Alanna was blocking the way, and Max was fumbling for a buckler. They fell back before his wrath, but another figure decided now was the moment and stepped forwards.
They had all but forgotten him for a moment. The Antinium Worker was short, unimposing compared to the Painted Soldiers in their armor, and his robes were plain white cotton. He carried only a club in one hand, and it did not glow.
Gently, Pawn knocked the staff down, and the air cracked.
—as if the very air were glass and reality were snapping—
The Prophet recoiled as those around the two covered their ears. Pawn held out a hand.
“I think that is enough. You three, get back. Prophet of God, I think it is time the two of us met properly. I am Pawn of the Free Antinium of Liscor. Priest of the Painted Antinium. Believers in Heaven and Sky. I have come from distant Izril to speak with you. Will you treat with me?”
Harvey drew himself up slowly and planted the glowing staff in the ground. He squared his shoulders, breathing in and out.
“Yes. I see it now. You are the true test set before me, Priest Pawn. I am the Prophet, and now I come to meet you as one man of faith to another. Was it your doing, sending my own people to confront me?”
Pawn lowered the club and shook his head.
“No, they just showed up. In my experience, Earthers do that. They strut onto any stage as if they have seen it all before, all-knowing, and they love to lecture.”
“Hey, what the hell—”
The three Earthers protested, but Harvey’s lips twitched. He was trying to hide a smile. They both felt their faiths pressing at each other, like they were locked in a shoving match with their entire beings, but still…
“I have met only these three, but I believe you after speaking for but ten minutes. So we are…across this world? I saw the [Innkeeper]’s broadcast and so many faces. I have been alone for over a year. In the company of good and varied people, but I have dreamed of home. You…do you know anything of what has happened? Are they all in one place, Wistram, or spread out?”
Pawn’s head turned, and no one had told him about the scrying spells. Possibly, he didn’t care. He nodded once.
“Scattered. They appear in random places, I think. Some of them draw together. Earthers find Earthers. Nations are hunting for them. The Walled Cities, Wistram. Roshal, the Blighted Kingdom. I do not know how they came here, nor do they. But my people are on their side. Wherever the Painted Antinium go, if an Earther calls out, we will help them.”
The Prophet of God regarded Pawn, and his faith was a harsh one. Uncompromising. He blazed like that [Light of Faith] in the distance, a burning passion, sometimes doubting, sometimes wavering, but standing tall.
Like a cross standing in the desert, a marker that refused to vanish. A pledge upon the earth of faith.
Closer to Erin Solstice than Pawn’s own light. Yet the Antinium was soft and wondrous colors. A vision of the unknowable. Uncertainty was part of his nature. He did not fear it.
Two ideas pressed so close together now that those standing there could see it. Alanna was wiping at her eyes.
“It’s beautiful.”
“What is?”
Max and Lloyd saw her staring at something beyond the two. Alanna didn’t respond. The half-Elves, the new Painted Folk, the People of God—this was for their eyes alone. Marrieh had a hand on her own club. She did not want this, but she felt an impending battle.
For a moment, though, the Prophet regarded Pawn with admiration and felt it in his chest. An approval he had not granted anyone or anything since he had come to this world. He lifted the staff out of the ground and spoke.
“Let it be known to all the People of God that in this, our faiths agree. Wherever one from Earth comes, they shall know sanctuary and respite among us. Until thy Kingdom Come, we shall watch over God’s lost children in any world. But his people are manifold, Pawn. Thousands live in Khelt’s lands, and countless more await our coming. Who are you to stand between the King of Khelt and judgement?”
Pawn nodded at him and lifted a hand. In his own grip was his book. His mandibles lifted.
“Just an Antinium who had no name, once. I am no Queen. I was never made to do great things. I was not even chosen, not truly. I was only granted a chance. I have no right to Khelt. Yet I see what you and your people are doing, and I refuse to let you continue, Harvey. My Painted Folk are few, but we will not allow yours to continue assailing Khelt.”
“You are outnumbered thousands to a mere hundred.”
The Prophet of God drew himself up, and the wind blew at his back, sand whipping up across the ground. That was no spell. Nor was it an accident.
If Pawn had flesh, he would have had goosebumps. He felt like he stood before a raging sea of faith. He shook his head and planted his feet more firmly.
“That does not matter. If I were alone, I would do the same thing. That is faith and knowing what matters, Harvey. If you step forwards, I will hit you. That is my pledge. I believe your faith is strong. I believe in your God, even if I do not believe he is mine, but you are doing the wrong thing. Listen to your heart, Prophet of God, and may it be louder than the delusions of grandeur you hold.”
The Prophet’s eyes flashed.
“Perhaps it is you who are the wrong one, Pawn of the Painted Antinium. You, all of you who come before me, naysayers, doubters. Do you ever think that you are shielding a monster?”
“Of course I doubt. I have walked your camp and Khelt’s cities and found fault with both. But Khelt did not begin this conflict. Your people did, Harvey.”
“I will not be lectured by a foreigner to Chandrar who has been here less than a month. Move aside.”
Harvey went to sweep Pawn aside with one hand, and the air drew down, glowing and coalescing into a physical thing. A hand like that of a half-Giant rose, as tall as Pawn, and moved to knock him aside. He pivoted.
“[Holy Barrier]—”
The hand struck him, and sand billowed forth in an explosion. Those behind the Prophet flung up their arms, shielding their faces, and when Harvey took a step forwards, a club barred his way. Pawn hadn’t moved. Harvey recoiled slightly.
Pawn had less than a hundred followers! Yet…the Prophet stared at him.
“You would risk your life for this uncaring paradise? For an undead king?”
The Antinium’s multi-faceted eyes had no irises nor pupils, yet the light seemed to collect strangely across his eyes. The light flashed, and Ecclisi, watching from the side, praying, remembered a different Pawn whose eyes glowed purely with a faith internal. Pawn stepped forwards.
“I would risk it for a bee, a kitten on the road, or a stranger. Don’t test me, Harvey. I am a humble Antinium from Liscor. A common laborer. I was a [Carpenter] before I became a [Priest]. If you would like to settle this between us, I will take that challenge any moment. I have been told I am very good at fighting.”
The People of God susurrated. It was just a class. Just a class…but they believed in signs. So did Harvey, and he stepped back for a second. Then they began to argue in earnest.
 
——
 
The rest of the Painted Antinium marched into position behind Pawn, a wall of Soldiers and Workers united in purpose and faith. Yellow Splatters, who motioned Trey and his Golems back, standing with Pawn.
He wished that they were not so outnumbered. Because if the Painted Folk had come to support their [Priest]…the People of God had come for their Prophet. They were a wave of flesh and cloth that moved forwards. Nevertheless, the Painted Antinium had a unity greater than theirs.
Yellow Splatters stood next to Pawn, advancing, retreating, a single unit who became part of a whole, a gestalt of minds.
It was like being in the Hives, being Antinium in a Unitasis Network, but different. They were linked not by the Antinium’s telepathy, but by faith.
It was a combined strength, and they became one Antinium, even if they were comprised of non-Antinium, a united faith. A rock of stubbornness against, well, an ocean.
“[They keep coming.]”
Rabbitears murmured, and they all saw it. More People of God. They were streaming forwards, forming a huge semi-circle, kneeling and praying in massed chants, but the Prophet and his core group of followers, including his disciples, were all armed. They spoke, shouting as Pawn and Harvey strode at each other.
Where they met, the winds clashed as if two gusts were meeting, forming whirlwinds of sand. When they engaged even more fiercely, the air cracked, and almost-invisible lines appeared in reality.
They were arguing, screaming at each other, on multiple levels. Pawn and the Prophet were the loudest voices, of course, drawing the eye of so many watching from afar and above.
“You are protecting a selfish, murdering [King]! This Revenant has slaughtered innocents far more than you or I could dream of! Did he not strike a harbor of innocents, the Blighted Kingdom? He has killed my people with his arrows from above!”
The Prophet shoved Pawn, and the Worker went stumbling backwards with all sixty Painted Antinium. They caught themselves as a sandstorm rose up and came at the Kheltians, who panicked and wailed.
“Out of the way!”
Herdmistress Geraeri and her Centaurs were stampeding left, snatching up people and tossing them onto their backs—a sandstorm could choke you to death, and this was a simple byproduct of the Prophet’s wrath! But a single figure raised a glowing staff and spoke.
“[Karaz Duststorm].”
Trey Atwood hurled a magical sandstorm at the one coming towards them, and the two slammed into each other. Sand whirled around, forming a huge whirlpool as it settled, and Trey panted. The Herdmistress slowed and glanced at him. Her eyes were alight with tension, and she pointed.
“Frivek, spread out.”
The Centaurs of the People of Zair trotted wide in smaller groups as Frivek yelled orders. For all Geraeri’s eyes were unclouded, her vigor returned, she was tense.
This is no low-level [Cult Leader]. His power was far, far greater than anyone had led them to believe. His very wrath could create sandstorms, but the Painted Antinium held, and Pawn strode at the Prophet.
“You were the people who invaded Khelt! The Blighted Kingdom and Roshal were warned. Neither is innocent. If Fetohep has killed, been selfish, I have always known him as an ally who gave and gave! He is no monster. Why do you call him such? Do you fear necromancy that much, Prophet of God? It is not against your religion! I have known only one [Necromancer], and his worst sin is sniffing too much. You do not understand undead. You have come to loot Khelt, and the riches your people have taken are proof of that. If this was a holy, just war, why does it profit you so?”
They were going for each other’s weak points. Pawn’s returning ‘blow’ was not as simple as the Prophet’s, but Harvey still stumbled. Yet there was no billowing sandstorm. The Painted Antinium’s faith was just not as strong.
They were all learning, moment by moment, how their faiths worked. Yellow Splatters realized that they should have taken every Painted Antinium they could find. It was like Mrsha trying to wrestle Zamea. The combined faith of each of the Painted Antinium was strong, perhaps stronger than the People of God on average, but the sheer numbers…
Yet he added his voice to the chorus of rebukes, condemnations. Starfold shouted at Jilthread.
“You were told not to kill, and you have! How is that righteous?”
The [Battle Cleric] flinched, and her feet skidded on the sand as a puff of dust rose. But Lazimeh caught her along with the people around Jilthread, and she steadied. She went to shove back as the two sides met, physically now, and their voices were raised in condemnation.
“Thou shalt not worship false idols! Your faith is false!”
A pathetic blow; it bounced off Yellow Splatters’ chest, and he didn’t even slow as an idiot [Warrior of Faith] went to shove him. The Soldier, who outweighed the man, checked him flat onto the ground. The arguments had to matter. Unfortunately—Yellow Splatters ran into a press of bodies and was forced back. They struggled, and Pie spoke.
“Your Bible does not have you in it. Your God does not know your people.”
Marrieh flinched, and a gash opened up on her cheek. As if struck by such a sharp blow—Yirene healed her and fired back.
“We are written into the New Bible. You are the ones who have left your continent to interfere in this foreign nation’s matters. You are not Kheltian. When this is done, they will expel you. Khelt loves no one but their own.”
A blow in return; Pie’s head jerked. He drew back a hand and threw something. A pie hit Yirene in the face, and she blinked.
Normal Skills did work. But the shoving and outrage of the People of God physically pushed the Painted Antinium back. Yellow Splatters panted.
“Don’t give them any justification, Pie. Use your words, not your fists. Close ranks!”
They had to win an edge here. Yes, that was how it worked. The Painted Antinium drew closer together, and they were a rock before a raging torrent. A single stubborn anthill amidst a literal sea of the Prophet’s people, who formed an ever-shifting ring around the Antinium.
However—the Antinium broke that sea every time lower-level [Faithful] came at them. Workers and Soldiers knocking down the People of God like a hammer smashing through all but the Prophet’s best warriors. Those were the groups that fought in the open ground, pockets of [Holy Warriors] who slammed into the Antinium, broke away, reformed, trying to pierce the stubborn knot of insects.
The Painted Antinium kept moving, forcing the People of God away, using the mass of bodies against the Prophet’s warriors who had to give chase. And unless they came together, the Antinium enveloped groups equal to their size or smaller. Left beaten-down, wounded, and ran onwards.
Clashing—faltering as Antinium fell, one by one, to be dragged away by the People of God. Enduring. Two faiths meeting like sparks on the ground.
The Prophet’s strength was vast, but undirected. He snarled at Pawn as he led another attack at them personally.
“I have witnessed the enemy that Erin Solstice spoke of! They are Fetohep of Khelt’s allies. That is why I have come here, to deliver those six rotting corpses to their graves as well as this foul king!”
“You—what—?”
For a moment, Pawn slackened, and the Prophet swung his staff, and Pawn blocked. The blow tossed the Worker across the ground.
“Pawn!”
The Painted Antinium cried out, and the Worker hit the ground, tumbling—he rose as they ran to him, and the People of God advanced, a wave. They had the momentum. Even a single opening—they were shoving the Painted Antinium back, now, and Yellow Splatters was yelling.
“Hold! Hold! H—what are you doing? Seventh Voice?”
He was shoving the People of God back, one by one, until a figure as tall and strong as he was met him. Four arms grabbed Yellow Splatters, and the Painted Soldier stumbled. Was thrown down and gazed up.
Seventh Voice, wearing his paint, stood with the People of God, and he peered down. The Painted Antinium faltered as one. They had not realized they were missing one of their own. The Soldier spoke with only a trace of guilt.
“I’m just…seeing what there is to see. Don’t look at me like that. Are we allowed to believe in what we want, or is Pawn’s way the only way? Is his way the right way to get to Heaven? You don’t even know. You lied.”
Waver. Painted Antinium were hurled back by the People of God. Smaller though they were—Jilthread, that Hemp woman shoved Rabbitears with a push that sent him flying like Pawn. Losing. Yellow Splatters rose, shaky.
I am the flaw. He flinched as Seventh Voice came at him, poised to grapple like the Antinium did best, when a hand reached out.
Purple Smile blocked Seventh Voice. He was smiling, but Seventh Voice wavered. He came at the other Painted Soldier, but Purple Smile just grabbed him with two hands, and the other two hand-signed.
“[Are you going to kill the Kheltians, Seventh Voice? Is that faith better than ours?]”
“No, I—”
This time, it was Seventh Voice who wavered, and Purple Smile drew his head back and headbutted the Painted Soldier. The blow dropped Seventh Voice to the ground, and Marrieh had to help him up. She spoke.
“This is a pointless battle! We are both people of faith!”
“Yeah. But yours sucks. You have a lot of nice-sounding things, but somehow, it just turns into reasons why you can hurt people. We believe in Heaven, nothing more. If your God is so great, why does he keep having you attack everything?”
Pie spat back at her. Marrieh fell back, and it was Lazimeh who flew into a rage. He pointed.
“Blasphemer! Enough! [Miracle: True Lightning]!”
There was only a second to react. Yellow Splatters was throwing up a hand as he saw Lazimeh’s finger rise, and he spoke.
“[Unleash Sins: Envy]!”
It was not a crawling, bloated caterpillar, but a substantially larger bird with huge green wings that burst upwards. His envy of Khelt’s riches, his dissatisfaction—it flew upwards and screamed with a Human’s voice.
Then exploded as the bolt of lightning hit it. The air rocked, and everyone flinched.
“Lazimeh! Stop!”
Marrieh shouted, but the sacrificial sin had taken the blow. Lazimeh stared at Yellow Splatters, who lowered his finger.
“Heresy. He has the Skills of sin!”
The Stitch-man recoiled, but the sight of one of his miracles failing had shaken the faith of the People of God around him. The Antinium closed ranks again, and Yellow Splatters felt his own surge of confidence.
They don’t know how to fight. Tossing a sacrificial object or Skill in the way of an attack was basic. And—Yellow Splatters shouted.
“Is that the might of your one true God? If so, he’s only as powerful as a [Grand Magus]! Is that how you argue, smiting anyone who speaks back to you? Weak.”
They shoved back, a wedge driving into the People of God, capitalizing on their moment of weakness. Yellow Splatters strode shoulder-to-shoulder with the other Soldiers, using their coordination to move, slam into the Stitch-folk and Humans as a single unit, rushing through their sheer numbers. But their momentum would run out soon. Yellow Splatters’ head was turning. Pawn. We can’t do this without you. Pawn—!
Yellow Splatters ran into the Prophet, and Harvey halted him, though he was half the Antinium’s size. The Painted Soldier strained to grab him, and he put all four arms on Harvey, but he was like a rock. So strong—
And his hand was burning like a red-hot brand. The Prophet hissed.
“Do you want to see the true wrath of the divine, Soldier? Then witness it: our miracles born of Khelt’s wrath. [Plagues of Egypt: Swarms of Pestilence].”
He knocked Yellow Splatters back, and then there was a buzzing sound. Yellow Splatters felt Pie and Purple Smile catch him and peered up. He heard screams behind him, then. Shouts, and his head rose.
“Uh oh.”
They came across the ground in such profusion they darkened the skies. A buzzing like nothing Yellow Splatters had heard since the Face-Eater Moths, and there were so many. Locusts.
…Just locusts, in a sense. Starfold caught one as it passed by him, and it was an oversized, yellow grasshopper with wings. He crunched it in his mandibles and spoke as hundreds bounced off his armor.
“Hey, these taste pretty good. They’re almost as good as Acid Flies.”
Wait, they did? The Painted Antinium began grabbing locusts and eating them, and they found the bugs were tasty. Crunchy, fresh—Harvey’s eyes bugged as he saw them completely unfazed by the biblical curse.
If he wanted to unsettle Antinium, he should have sent water. However, Yellow Splatters realized something as he crushed a locust in his hands and saw it turn to a mush of insect blood and parts.
“…This isn’t a fake summoned being.”
Anything summoned vanished when you damaged it enough. But Starfold had eaten the insect, and magical food was fake and didn’t nourish you in most cases. Yellow Splatters’ head rose. Then turned.
The Kheltians were screaming as the locusts swept towards them and their cities. They cowed, shrieking as the locusts clung to their hair and clothing, even landed in open mouths—
Khelt was struck by a living nightmare, and it reeled. Gnolls yelling, Centaurs stomping in a panic, too afraid to run and break something as it became nigh-impossible to see. Bugs sweeping over the cities in such numbers that they would never be quelled, not until they had devoured everything, reproducing…
The Prophet had a Skill that could ruin entire nations. He was no longer a mere troublemaker. He could despoil harvests, starve a people. Biblical wrath.
“How cruel. You truly are a man of faith, Harvey. Old faith. The old testament and new are in conflict. Are you a man who loves, or a man who kills and spites? I see both in you, and one is so very, very small. Enough.”
Pawn raised his censer high and swung it as the swarms of locust buzzed past him. He spoke, and the Painted Antinium felt their hearts lift.
“[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky].”
—And the air split. The furious locusts tried to swerve, but they flew into that vision that had led the Painted Antinium this far. A sky of their own, which shielded them, a raging river of colors that the swarm passed through.
The locusts died. As they entered the colors, they fell. Not vanishing, but falling, bodies curling, their numbers thinning as Pawn stood there, his Skill rippling overhead. Harvey’s mouth opened as he saw the plague failing.
“You—[Hammer of God]!”
He croaked, and a Giant’s hammer fell from the skies. It swung down at Pawn and vanished. Turning into motes of light. Pawn caught one, and the other People called out Skills.
Arrows of divine flame, orbs of light, even another bolt of lightning—vanished. The Painted Antinium stood in their vision of Heaven, and they were immune from harm from above.
They had won this Skill long ago. They had fought on the Floodplains of Liscor against the Goblin Lord, and for all the People of God’s strength…Pawn gazed at Harvey.
“You are not the only one who can work miracles, Harvey. Yellow Splatters is right. That’s not a convincing argument. If annihilation meant truth and righteousness, then we would not need words. Painted Antinium, with me. That is my Level 30 capstone Skill, Prophet. Don’t make me use my Level 40 one.”
They advanced, crunching locusts underfoot, and the People of God flooded backwards until the Prophet was in front. He did not flee, but Pawn slowed and inspected him.
“You say you met the six that Erin Solstice spoke of? The true foes?”
“Yes. They came to me in a vision on the Solstices. Just as she proclaimed. Tempters, rotten, wretched things.”
“And that is why you swore to kill the King of Khelt?”
The Prophet’s head rose.
“Yes. One of them, the clever man, claimed him as a servant. That is why I do battle. If you support that [Innkeeper], then in this, we are aligned!”
His eyes flashed with triumph, fear, and determination. Pawn nodded and regarded Harvey.
“I see. It’s all so clear now. I wish you had told me this from the start. Harvey. You’re an idiot.”
The Prophet of God blinked. The People of God gasped in outrage. Pawn glanced back at the Kheltians.
“Fetohep is the last being who would ever ally with those six.”
Harvey’s eyes narrowed.
“You are a false witness, and you are the fool! I have seen them with my own eyes! I heard that one claim the King of Khelt as he fled!”
“Uh huh. And I have fought the Goddess of Death on the Winter Solstice in Liscor, you idiot! I have seen her in the flesh and battled the hundred thousand Draugr she sent to kill Erin! Do you know who helped us? Not you, Harvey. Fetohep of Khelt. He has fought them, and it was Khelt who held the six off in the lands of the dead. You—are—a—fool!”
Pawn jabbed with his finger, and Harvey recoiled with each jab, losing a bit of confidence.
“That is purely trickery of the enemy. You—”
“You heard one of them say Khelt was their servant and you believed them? Do you believe the tooth fairy is real? Look at me, idiot, I’m the King of Medain. Don’t pay attention to that High King, believe me because I said so. You didn’t even use a truth spell, did you? And they can fake truth spells. You fucking idiot!”
The light of Harvey’s faith winked out, and Marrieh’s head turned like a zombie’s, slow, eyes wide with mounting horror. Pawn was blazing, and Harvey was whispering.
“No, I saw his corruption. A rotting corpse like the rest of them. I—”
He tried to hold fast, but the seed of doubt was planted, and it was growing. Upon it, all things rested.
It was not God’s voice in that rotting corpse that claimed Fetohep. I thought it was God who led me here, but was I listening to a lie? Pawn was in a fury as he raised his club.
“The dead, Harvey! All this suffering! Khelt is crumbling because of you, and it is the one nation that I called an ally! You fool.”
He readied his club to strike Harvey, to deliver unto him a fraction of the pain he’d brought. The Prophet flinched and tried to dodge. Too slow. Pawn swung down, and Marrieh shoved Harvey aside. Their clubs met, and the world cracked.
Both staggered, and Pawn recoiled as the Prophet’s first and greatest follower panted. She gazed down at her hand, and blood ran onto the ground.
Hers. The blow had split the flesh of her right arm. Cracked it like the very air, and a spiderweb of flesh was letting her ichor flow to the ground like rain.
“Marrieh!”
Harvey reached for her, and she raised her right arm, shaking. The wounds—didn’t heal. Jilthread tore at her robes, removing strips, and Marrieh panted.
“Just remove my arm—”
They ripped it off her, undoing the threads, but even when it was removed…the arm continued to bleed. It should have turned to cloth, but the blow had struck Marrieh’s soul. Trembling, Jilthread bound it and the flow of blood slowed. Marrieh reattached her arm as Pawn stood there. He raised the club again, and she flinched, but Harvey’s staff rose.
“Don’t touch her.”
His doubts were gone. There was a deep, haunting guilt in his eyes, but not as he blocked Marrieh from the Antinium. Pawn whispered to him.
“Now we come to it, Harvey. You were wrong. You believed in lies.”
“I do not know if it was the tongue of the Devil or not. But you shall not harm her. This has gone too far, Pawn. I will not let my people die again. Withdraw or this time we shall crush you.”
The two advanced, and Pawn tilted his head.
“I have just told you that your entire reason for entering Khelt was wrong, Prophet. What more do you need? Prophet, say we are on the same side. We are both against Roshal. Both wish to protect Earthers. Could it be we are aligned?”
“It may be. You do not believe in a false God, and even if you did—there is room for many religions in the world, surely. So long as they do not worship evil.”
The Prophet was breathing hard, turning to Alanna. Pawn nodded.
“Then listen to me. Walk away. On this one matter, trust that you were wrong. Then we can make what amends are possible. I have been here before, Harvey. Listen to me. There is always a chance before there is war and death. Do what lesser people like Tyrion Veltras, the Goddess of Death, and so many others could not. Leave.”
He waited, the faith of the two humming around them, as the People of God gazed upon their leader and beheld his sin. If he was wrong…the Prophet of God closed his eyes. Then he opened them and turned to Pawn, and the Priest read his answer before Harvey spoke.
“Do you know, Pawn? I have feared being wrong so many times. I am an imperfect vessel for God. I am selfish, greedy. I lust, I envy. I do not think of my people when I should. I have feared failure. If you had come to me a month ago, I think I would have forsworn my oaths. Thrown myself on the King of Khelt’s mercy and abdicated my role as Prophet. Perhaps I must. But when we came to Khelt, we made war, yes. We fought, and in this, the King of Khelt’s wrath was justified. But…”
He pointed upwards, at the sky. And his eyes rose and glistened.
“—Whatever wrath we incurred, I still see the Arrows of Razzimir falling in my nightmares. And I think to myself: no just God nor [King] should allow that. We killed a single subject of his, Pawn. And for that he killed thousands. He bombarded us without end. Innocents and children. He turned it all to glass and dust. For that, and that alone, I will kill him. What could you say in that monster’s defense?”
There it was. There it always was. Pawn had no eyes to close, so he just fixed it on the tears running from Harvey’s eyes. He spoke with a painful calm.
“You must stop, Harvey. Or there will be worse bloodshed yet. I will not deny that Fetohep did these things. He is not a perfect king. Or, I think, even a good king. To his people, perhaps. But to everyone else, he can be that monster. Like everyone who wears a crown.”
“Yet you defend him.”
The Prophet wept as he leaned on his staff, and the People of God were silent. They drew closer, now, a building wave, and the dead…Pawn rasped.
“When my beloved [Innkeeper] was dead, armies of Drakes came to the Meeting of Tribes, intent on slaughtering the Gnolls for no other reason than that the Gnolls had found the truth of what had been done to them. No one came to their defense. Not even I. Only one person rode across Chandrar and moved heaven and earth to defend them. Because it was right. Every time a disaster has threatened those I loved, Fetohep of Khelt has been there. He is no perfect king. I daresay he is monstrous, foolish, arrogant beyond belief. But you trespassed first, Prophet. Further conflict will not heal anything.”
The Prophet of God nodded and nodded again. Then he lifted his staff.
“No. But he has slaughtered my people, and for that, he will die. One being in all of Khelt. Stand aside, Pawn, and let me take that one life. One, and we shall depart. This, I swear.”
Then it was Pawn’s turn to hesitate. He bowed his head and lifted the club.
“He is Khelt. No.”
“Then we fight, Pawn. Spare them if you can, my people. The Kheltians, but do not let yourselves be harmed. Kill the King of Khelt. Priest Pawn, you stand before the coming flood. I would hate to see you die in this wretched king’s name. Please, flee.”
The Prophet of God planted his staff in the ground. Pawn stepped back, and the Painted Antinium clicked as his censer drifted smoke over their ranks. He spoke, voice laced with bitterness.
“You’re not wrong, Harvey, but not even God can make you entirely right.”
He swung his club as Harvey’s staff fell.
This time, the earth split.
 
——
 
The earthquake woke him up. Like a dreamer who had been having a nightmare…Fetohep of Khelt stepped out of that dream where the desperate Goddess had been pleading with him and back into reality.
The throne room of the palace was empty. The lights were off. A faint golden glow from his eyes illuminated the dark room, but there was nothing else.
No lights. No scrying orbs. And no servants.
“Hello? Servants?”
He rose from his throne, feeling oddly—stiff. How long had he been asleep? Where was Pewerthe? Fetohep took a few steps forward, mind racing as undeath returned to him, not the dream of the deadlands.
I know what must be done. Hope. I have come back with hope. And Razzimir’s teachings about panic attacks.
Three generations. All they had to do was hold out for…hope warred with desperation. If he’d been asleep for a day again, then…
A tremble in the ground. What was that? An earthquake? It was too quick, like drumbeats, but irregular. Something was very wrong.
He strode towards the palace doors, calling out now.
“Day-servants! Night-servants, to me! Where is everyone?”
He felt at his sides, but his speaking stone was gone, and so were the scrying orbs. Someone had taken them. Where…
He was running now, through the palace, and no one was present. No one. No servants, only a few undead standing to attention. Fetohep felt something to the north. Something ominous.
A few hundred undead. What is…
Then he came across a soul at last, and the little boy flinched and cried out. Fetohep nearly ran over—
“Anleth?”
The boy had been dicing by himself in the banquet room. A single scrying orb was on the table. He stuttered.
“Your Majesty? You woke up!”
“You know? Where is…where is everyone? Your parents? Pewerthe? The servants?”
Fetohep cast around, and now there was a terrible sensation in his bones. Anleth pointed at the scrying orb, and he saw a broadcast with Sir Relz’s grave face on it. And beyond…an Antinium and Human man striking at each other. Fetohep recognized Pawn and the Prophet and stopped. Anleth whispered.
“They left. So did Heir Pewerthe and…and everyone. They’ve all gone to see the Prophet of God. T-to fight. Citizens of Koirezune, the servants, the soldiers, everyone. They told me to stay with the other children.”
“Them? Fight? That…that’s on the scrying orb. It’s on live television. How long have they been watching us?”
“An hour?”
Fetohep of Khelt stood over the scrying orb, and his head rose.
“They know. The Prophet…they’re all there. The Centaurs, the Gnolls. I must go. My halberd.”
He was searching around. His halberd, his chariot—no, the undead horses might not even function with the precision he needed. He was walking slowly, towards his personal chambers, seldom used for he had no need of sleep, when Anleth cried out.
“Your Majesty! It’s dangerous. Th-the People of God are erasing the undead. And there’s a terrible light from the north. The Prophet is calling down lightning, and Priest Pawn is fighting him.”
Fetohep turned, and his purple robes swished across the ground.
“I know, Anleth. This is all my fault. My weakness. My arrogance and conceit. Pewerthe has held this nation together better than I. I must go. It is me the Prophet wants. Stay here and watch, son of Khelt. I charge you with this duty which the hopes of Khelt rest upon. When Pewerthe returns, tell her that in three generations, Khelt’s dead shall remember their duties. She must survive three generations. Do you understand?”
“Your Majesty—”
He heard a sob as he turned, and then he was running. Running, light as a feather, each step shaking like his kingdom, with a mountain’s weight. Long had he relied on others, trusted to Khelt’s dead, the loyal who gave more than they were expected, even the Antinium.
Enough, enough.
A [King] should not let others fight his battles for him. Fetohep grinned once at the foolishness of that statement.
“I was always a poor [King]. Great Khelta, Queen Xierca, Khelt—”
His hand closed over a halberd as he turned.
“Judge me.”
Then he ran as the Prophet of God raged.
 
——
 
Pawn and the Painted Antinium fought, a single group of Antinium surrounded by a sea of the People of God. That they were not swarmed from every angle was just because the Prophet had told his followers to stay back. He led the faithful who could fight at Pawn, so it was a fairer fight.
Just sixty versus a thousand or something. But neither side had to meet. It was just—
Skills.
“[Massed Prayer: Pillar of Light]!”
“[Hymn of God: Benediction of Strength]!”
“[Javelin of Sunfire]!”
So many damn Skills. The Painted Antinium charged over the broken ground as spells landed around them, and Pawn saw it.
Massed prayers. Even a hundred Level 10 [Faithful] could call down the equivalent of a Tier 5 spell with enough faith. He needed more prayers. He needed—
The pillar of light shone down as a javelin thrown from a high-level [Battle Priest] exploded—harmlessly caught by his Skill.
[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. The Antinium were still being shielded by the blessing. It was the only reason they weren’t dead. The People of God rained down literal hellfire on them, but it all vanished, caught by the light of Heaven.
—Unfortunately, for every second the Painted Antinium were adapting, learning, the same was true of the People of God. Harvey saw yet another Skill vanish and instead of trying to break Pawn’s Skill, his eyes narrowed.
“[Hammer of God]!”
He swung his staff around horizontally, and Pawn swore.
“Shit. [Holy Hammer]!”
The two Skills collided in midair, and both recoiled from the thunderous impact. Harvey snapped.
“Aim below that Skill! Bring them down!”
His faithful charged, and Yellow Splatters shouted.
“Painted Antinium! [Stoneshield Line]!”
The faithful slammed into the Antinium, who grabbed their foes, then began to punch them into the ground. Yellow Splatters knelt on one of the faithful until he’d hit the woman into tomorrow and stood.
Martial might still mattered. The Painted Antinium had the edge there—he saw Rabbitears using a shield to block a glowing spear. A [Weapon of Faith]—which met his [Holy Shield]. He stabbed back at Jilthread, and she gasped as the blow struck her robes, but they were blessed.
Arrows were flying between both sides, but neither group had strong archers. One struck Yellow Splatters’ new helmet, and he grunted as it rang. He saw Salted Pork firing a custom-made crossbow back and kneecapped Lazimeh. The man cried out—then he was up in moments, healed.
Someone had hit Pie so hard his shoulder had cracked open and was oozing green blood. Stellar Word unrolled a scroll, and the Painted Antinium’s wounds closed.
They were healing. It was like no battle that the other watchers had seen. Even with potions, the faithful had endurance, the ability to call down powerful weapons—
Little adaptability. 
That was what Pawn realized as he searched for a Skill or Miracle in his arsenal to use to turn the tides. Unlike magic, he couldn’t vary how his miracles worked. Just change where he hit or aimed. Valeterisa, Pisces, any experienced [Mage] could alter their spells on the fly, but miracles?
Either we pray or we use a miracle. Nor was there a way for him to counter Harvey’s overwhelming edge in faith. The Prophet spoke.
“God, hear me! Blow away these Antinium that we might destroy the King of Khelt! [Miracle: Breath of Giants]!”
“Aw, h—”
The Antinium were tossed by a vast windstorm, and Pawn shouted.
“[Prayer: A Leaf in the Storm]!”
They didn’t slam into the ground hard enough to turn into paste. Instead, they lightened and were blown in a confusing, tumbling frenzy until they landed—relatively softly—on the ground. Pawn got up, feeling one arm click.
“Ow. [Mass Heal Minor Wounds]. We have to take him out. [Bane of Luck]. [Summon Aberration]. Yellow Splatters, thoughts? Ecclisi, anyone?”
His two ‘evil’ Skills activated, but only one worked. The [Bane of Luck] curse hit the Prophet and…failed to work. Was his faith that overwhelming? However, the furious Aberrations that came tearing upwards—four of them—threw themselves at the People of God and slowed their advance.
Yellow Splatters spat sand from his mouth.
“We’re losing badly. We need more faith.”
“Well, believe in Heaven harder, because we’re about to go there!”
Pawn snapped back. He lifted his censer. He had his new capstone Skill, but there just wasn’t enough faith to power either up to match Harvey! It was Ecclisi who spoke.
“T-they have so much faith. But we are the People of Erin!”
“Oh dead gods, shut up or tell me how to use a super-miracle from the future!”
Pawn shouted at him. Ecclisi turned to him.
“I don’t understand. We should be able to match them. There are the [Crusaders], the 7th Hive, the Painted Antinium of Liscor. Even if there are not as many, we should be able to hold our own.”
“Ecclisi, they’re a continent away!”
Pawn roared as the Painted Antinium reformed—the Prophet was coming at them. Fortunately, the idiot wasn’t that fit, so he wasn’t sprinting. But Ecclisi just stared at Pawn.
“Distance doesn’t matter to faith, Pawn.”
The Worker’s mandibles opened. And then something clicked in his head.
Much like the Prophet of God—Pawn turned. Then he saw it.
“Yellow Splatters? Hit me hard enough to knock me out. Then wake me up. Don’t argue, just—”
Yellow Splatters punched Pawn in the head.
“[Knockout Punch].”
He shook out a fist as Ecclisi stared at him in horror.
“What? He knew I had that Skill.”
—Like the Prophet, Pawn heard that voice waiting for him. As they both understood more of what faith was.
 
[Faith (Heaven and Sky) – The Painted Folk Created!]
[Priest of Heaven’s Way rank Created!]
 
Faith. Ranks? Organization. Pawn was reaching for the faith of the other Antinium, in Izril.
We need your help. The [Crusaders], of course. There were so many, and the [Templars], the 7th Hive…but he couldn’t draw on them.
Because they weren’t really Painted Antinium, were they? They had different ways, even if they had a similar class. Many didn’t believe.
I have to give them a place. The voice, the system of levels was waiting for him. So Pawn spoke to it and said—
 
——
 
The 7th Hive was camping to watch the battle in Khelt. Xrn and most of the Antinium were watching, but some were napping and hadn’t been woken up. One such was [Templar] 1-33, nicknamed ‘the Voice’. Because when he had gained his class, he had been given a voice.
His only wish in this world. He hadn’t thought of the Painted Antinium in a while. He believed in Heaven, but the 7th Hive was his home now. Squad 3 and Company 1 were his home. If he was dreaming, it was uneasily, as if some battle were happening elsewhere, but he had been too far to join in. Until a voice spoke to him in his sleep and said:
 
[The Painted Folk religion Inducted!]
 
[Class Change: Templar of Speech → Templar of the Sky Class!]
[Templar of the Sky rank Assigned!]
[Miracle – Amass the Faithful’s Will Obtained!]
[Miracle – Explosion of Faith (Orb) Obtained!]
 
The Voice shot up, tangled in his hammock he’d strung between two rocks, and crashed to the ground. He rose, shouting.
“Company! Company, assemble!”
They jerked to attention, leaping up, and he shouted as other Antinium woke, bawling orders.
“Get every single [Crusader] up and form a circle. Link hands or something!”
“What? What’s going on?”
Some of the other Antinium were confused, but the Voice shouted at them.
“Shut up! Pawn needs our help! Pray like you have an Adult Creler on your ass! And tell Crusader 57 to get lost!”
He probably had negative faith. The [Templar] grabbed hands with a Worker and concentrated. He was not Painted Antinium, but so what?
If there is a Heaven, let it be for us all. You need my faith, Pawn?
Take it.
 
——
 
Pawn woke up with a stiff neck and the light of faith burning in his chest. He saw the Prophet of God point at him.
“[Summon: Sword of Light].”
A giant damn sword swung across the ground at the Painted Antinium, who braced. Pawn sat up.
“You can use your followers’ Skills? That sucks. Hiyah.”
He lurched up and swung his club at the gigantic sword as Yellow Splatters ran, trying to shield Pawn. The glowing blade of ornate light hit Pawn’s club and shattered.
The Prophet recoiled, and Pawn shook out his club hand.
“Now let’s do this properly, Harvey.”
He felt it pouring into him from Izril’s shores. Faith. It came from his Hive, where Painted Antinium were kneeling in prayer, from the Hivelands in small pockets, from [Crusaders] in Liscor’s army or the 7th Hive.
Even a little trickle from a little Gnoll girl and a [Princess] in an inn. Pawn smiled as he drew it together, then paused.
“…Why is there faith coming from out at sea? Must be Seborn. But why an entire ship? Oh well. My turn.”
His censer rose, and now, it was glowing with the accumulated faith. Pawn shook it, and brown smoke drifted over the Painted Antinium. It smelled like cinnamon. He grinned at Harvey’s expression.
“What is that?”
“A Relic of faith. Want to see what it does?”
The brown smoke drifted over the Antinium, who had smelled it and walked with Pawn’s Painted Antinium from the day they had begun to defend the Hive. They marched forwards, and then it was unconscious: their mandibles snapped together.
Click.
Pawn’s Skill had finally run out of power. He thought he might be able to reactivate [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky] with all the faith running through him, but he didn’t need to. Lazimeh had thrown a spear of light at them, but the Painted Antinium clicked—
—and the Miracle fizzled out of existence. They marched forwards.
Click.
The [Benediction of Strength] glowing over the People of God faded away, leaving their limbs leaden and weak. Unnerved, they cried out, and Pawn heard the Antinium click again.
Skill cancelling. Niers is going to kill us for stealing his trick at half his level.
He lifted his club. The Walled Cities were going to have him assassinated, probably.
“Well, if you’re going to fear me—c’mon, Harvey. Let’s dance. [Miracle: Flood of Life’s Colors]. For Erin, the inn, and Khelt—get them.”
The Skill born of the Winter Solstice came to his mandibles, power he wished he had obtained just one battle prior. The strength to do—anything. The Antinium ran with him, and the wave of red ‘water’ broke over their heads. Red like her blood. Blue like her grieving flames. Green and white and—
 
——
 
It covered the Antinium. Harvey stared. Pawn’s Skill had hit his own people! It washed over them, and the Prophet expected to see flailing Antinium churning in the surreal waters. Then he realized the wave was coming at them and shouted.
“[Holy Barrier]! Defend yourselves! Defend—”
The waters smashed into his barrier, but it held as the People of God amassed their strength. They held, and Harvey laughed wildly. Even the faith of all the Painted Antinium couldn’t—
The Antinium burst out of the raging torrent of waters and attacked. A wave of brown water coalesced, and they were amidst the People of God. They weren’t being borne by the waters, they were the—
Pawn’s club struck Lazimeh across the kneecaps as the Disciple raised a sword, then he struck the man over the head. Marrieh turned, crying out. She leapt at him—and the Antinium vanished.
Water. Colors streaming past her as she swung at nothing at all. The flood flowed past the Prophet, a moving river, and he spun.
“They’re coming out of the water! Brace! Br—”
This time, the waters swept over the People of God, knocking them down, and the Antinium reappeared. Yellow Splatters punched down two bodyguards around the Prophet, reached for him—Harvey kicked him backwards, and the Antinium vanished into the golden droplets swirling.
So many beautiful colors—the Antinium were pouring out of the raging river, attacking like some kind of snake that could dissolve, reform—mobility.
A Skill for the insect-folk who were too stiff, too vulnerable. Harvey was shouting.
“Do not falter! We are the chosen of God! With me!”
But then—he heard screams from the side and turned. He saw a huge Sand Golem—rust-red, holding a glittering blade made out of glass—attacking his people! And he heard voices.
“The undead! The undead are—”
He’d forgotten. This was Khelt, and it seemed like the King of Khelt had brought his wrath at last. Death Commander Lanodest was leading a charge as thousands of undead poured at the People of God surrounding the Painted Antinium. Trey Atwood fired a fast [Light Lance] spell and cursed; the Prophet blocked it with his staff, panting.
Khelt was joining the Painted Antinium! He snarled.
“Wretched rats. People of God, defend yourselves! To arms! Activate the Sacrament!”
He whirled and blocked a swing from Pawn again. The ground shook as they met, and Pawn was shouting.
“Take the Prophet out! We have the undead and Centaurs on our side!”
The—Harvey turned, and then he heard the thunk of arrows falling. The Centaurs were charging. Now, his people were beset on all sides, and his lips moved.
Centaurs, undead, Antinium. Even regular citizens of Khelt, emboldened, were coming forwards to hurl trash. He whispered.
“You think this is enough? You think we survived Nerrhavia’s Fallen, assassins of Roshal, Germina, Medain’s Golden Ranks to fall here? We are the People of God. Lazimeh, take the undead. Jilthread, Yirene, stop the Centaurs. Marrieh, with me!”
They broke apart, the disciples. And the Prophet saw Lazimeh raise his sword overhead and lead a hundred of his [Warrior Priests] at the thousands of undead rising. His blade burst into white flames, and the Prophet saw him smiling. Lazimeh’s sword descended, and the first skeleton charging at him with the armor of ancient gold, rustless, looked up.
The blade cleaved through the skeleton’s armor and body, and Lazimeh swung through the next and next. The faithful behind him swung through the undead as if they were made of nothing but air, and then there was light.
 
——
 
Herdmistress Geraeri was racing left, counterclockwise around the People of God, intending to strike their backs, when she went blind. She stumbled and heard Centaurs screaming as a brilliant light covered them.
“Back! Back!”
She was shouting at them, trying to shield her eyes and restore some sight. She had just managed to see through the blinding spots in her vision when she saw more pilgrims of God or whatever they were advancing on them. Geraeri saw Frivek stumbling forwards. He was wearing Fetohep’s gift to them: the Adamantium armor made for Centaurs.
He was blinded, but swung at Jilthread as she advanced, singing—singing praises to her strange master. Frivek had height, if not reach on her—he was a [Warrior] and rained down cuts from his axes on her cloth body, but she was Hemp, and her robes seemed to shrug off blows. Nevertheless, she was bleeding, stumbling, as she swung her spear at him, more like a club than anything, trying to strike him.
More Centaurs were advancing as the People of God attacked, moving behind mobile walls of light. Geraeri spotted Yirene, then drew an arrow back and loosed it. An enchanted Arrow of Acid—
It halted, quivering in the air, and Yirene stared back at Geraeri as the herdmistress recoiled, then saw Frivek’s assault open him up. Jilthread managed to strike his midsection at last, a blow he ignored as it landed on the banded Adamantium—
“[Rebuke the Foe: Mightiest Blow].”
She heard Jilthread speaking her Level 40 capstone Skill, but Geraeri wasn’t looking at the [Battle Cleric] any longer. Her head was craning up, up—she turned. Fumbling for an arrow. The right one, the right…
“[Select Arrow]. [Unit: Pinpoint Shot].”
She loosed, using one of her Skills, and the falling Centaur—falling despite the heavy Adamantium on him—was eight feet from the ground when her Arrow of Stasis hit him. Frivek froze, and Geraeri was galloping. They had to stop his fall before the spell wore off—
“Get me a [Featherfall] scroll! Retreat! Don’t engage them in melee! Retreat—”
She glanced over her shoulder and saw Jilthread coming at them. Level 40. She had to be. Then Geraeri was falling back as Yirene raised a hand.
“[Miracle: Return Vengeance to Thee].”
The arrows hovering in the air reversed—and then Geraeri realized they had made a terrible mistake. The People of God had survived multiple nations, but she’d thought they had gone like beggars and thieves, fleeing every attack.
But Roshal? Nerrhavia’s Fallen towards rebellious Hemp? Medain? These were not nations known for kindness and clemency. The People of God had fought their way out of every trap and battle. And the undead—
The [Light of Faith] swung towards Khelt’s charging undead, and Geraeri sighed.
“So much for paradise.”
It was nice while it lasted. On live television, the audiences watched as a thousand undead fell to pieces, burning under that terrible light. Then another thousand. And another—
 
——
 
The People of God were cutting a swathe through the undead. The Centaurs were regrouping, unwilling to stand and fight against what they didn’t know, and what few Kheltians could fight—
Alked Fellbow firing arrows at the summoned spirit that had been called back by Priest Manoset. Frieke and Konska knocking down the People of God trying to swarm Trey and his Sand Golems, Kheltians fleeing.
He was tired. Pawn and the Painted Antinium were tiring. The People of God fought back for everyone that fell, and they were outnumbered. But so what?
They appeared as the wash of colors finally ended, and Pawn panted.
“I’m going for the Prophet. Yellow Splatters, keep Marrieh off me. We have to end this.”
The two leaders locked gazes, and Pawn no longer thought Harvey would fall so easily. But they would finish this. For Khelt.
The Painted Antinium began to charge as the People of God followed the Prophet with a roar. From above, the scrying spells, it all seemed like a confusion of ants. So cute. So small.
The foremost [Battle Priest] running at Pie was Manoset, teeth bared as he raised a sword. His feet left the ground. He swung his sword, shouting wildly, and his head rose.
He met the Vizir Hecrelunn’s crimson eyes, and the skeletal face smiled at him. Then Hecrelunn ripped his body apart.
“[Claws of the Vampire Queen].”
Blood and limbs scattered over the People of God. They flinched and glanced up. The Painted Antinium slowed, and the Vizir’s eyes flashed.
“Hello, worms despoiling Khelt. I am the Vizir Hecrelunn. [Disintegration Ray].”
He pointed, and a thin line of pale brown stretched out towards the Prophet’s face. Harvey flinched; one of his bodyguards pushed him aside, gasped—
Vanished. Hecrelunn shrugged. Then he dove and seized up another struggling faithful. He bore the woman higher and spoke.
“[Flesh to Iron].”
“What is—”
Harvey saw the flailing slow, and then the Vizir was holding a statue, mouth open in horror, which he lifted overhead. And—the metal was glowing where his hands touched it. The statue began to turn red hot, then white, and it melted. He pointed down as he hurled the liquid metal.
“[Lava Rain].”
Molten metal struck upraised faces, burning through eye sockets and setting Stitch-folk aflame. Droplets hit a barrier as Harvey raised his hand. What was—who was—
The Vizir snapped his fingers and vanished. He reappeared behind Lazimeh’s charging faithful and spoke as undead were turned into ash and dust.
“Do you think this is all the undead are capable of? I have been busy destroying armies. But it seems I must devote a fraction of my talents to this pathetic rabble. Observe, Heir. This is how you put down roaches. [Flesh Magnesis].”
He held out a hand, and a [Warrior Priest] was pulled off his feet into the Vizir’s grip. The [Vizir] grabbed the arm before it could swing a mace at him. Then his other hand seized the neck of the [Warrior Priest].
Snap. He twisted the neck around, then twisted it back and tossed the body down. Hecrelunn pointed at it.
“[Animate Draugr].”
The body began to bulge as the still-warm flesh of the Stitch-man expanded, and corded muscle filled the limbs. A bright, pale red light came from the empty eyes, and Lazimeh turned, readying his sword, as the Draugr rose. Seven feet tall and still rising—Lazimeh swung the sword into the Draugr’s side, and it bit deep. But the Draugr just ripped the sword free and dealt Lazimeh a blow that skipped him over the ground like a stone. Then it was roaring, charging.
“Hmm. [Mass Animate Invisible Ghouls]. Where are those useless Centaurs? Ah, good. Hello, Stitch-folk. [Meteor Storm].”
Jilthread had barely turned when the Vizir loosed the first burning chunks of stone down on her people. She raised a hand, crying out, and he was laughing. Hecrelunn floated higher as everyone halted and just tried to keep up with the devastation he was causing.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn does not grant you the right to despoil Khelt. Did you think that this land was yours to claim? Die screaming.”
He swooped down again and landed amongst the densest pocket of the People of God. Spun as they recoiled.
“[Blood Scythes].”
Crimson blades spat from his fingers, cutting through everything at waist height. They only halted when one of the [Clerics] raised a cross and stopped one of the scythes coming at him—another just travelled a hundred feet before dissipating.
The sands were red. The Prophet croaked.
“Bring that thing down. Bring it—”
He raised a barrier just in time. The [Inferno Ray] turned everything around it into fire and caught Harvey’s robes aflame. Hecrelunn swept towards him again, and Marrieh shouted.
“Defend the Prophet! Defend the—”
Hecrelunn dodged a glowing javelin with contemptuous ease. He pointed down at the thrower and spoke.
“[Implode Head]. Now, ‘People of God’. I am Khelta’s greatest follower. Bring forth your God. Or I shall rouse him with your cries of agony.”
He swept down on them and began the slaughter.
 
——
 
Most of the television networks managed to censor the horrific bloodshed…after a few minutes. The smart ones had a delay, but the Vizir just killed and kept killing. It was not just death, it was slaughter, each spell more horrific than the last.
Which, you had to admit, took talent. Of course, there was the humanity of it, the screams of the dying as he laid waste to the People of God, but if you were in the mood for some actually useful commentary, it was a fascinating engagement.
“Hmm. I’d put him at Level…67, probably. Not quite Level 70. If he were, he’d have wasted the entire area already. He could be Level 50+, but I doubt it. [Vizir]’s a hybrid-caster, so he has to be higher-level to keep casting so many spells. See how he stopped using showy, mana-wasting spells like [Disintegration Ray] and [Meteor Storm] after the first volley? He’s trying to rout them. And probably figuring out their capabilities.”
If you wanted accurate insight into magic or just battle, there was only one person who could commentate and eat potato chips at the same time. Well, there were probably plenty of people who could do that, but Silvenia was probably Top 5 at least, even if you counted Dragonlords and old mysterious hermits.
The Death of Wings, Serinpotva, and Death of Chains, Czautha, were watching with a number of Demons, and they were not enjoying the slaughter. But they were watching because this class was new. The crunch crunch of Silvenia eating was at odds with the screams, and Serinpotva glared with one eye.
“Silvenia. Stop eating chips. What do you see?”
The Death of Magic ostentatiously vanished the chips and sat upright as she hung in the air. She enlarged the scrying spell and added multiple angles, phasing out the panicked television broadcasts. For all her tone was light, her eyes were fixed on Hecrelunn.
“In life, Khelta was guessed to be Level 70+. Not Level 80. She’s a fascinating character. She is not the greatest [Necromancer] of her age, did you know? Preceding her was Archmage Nekhret, who presided over a Breathless Age when undead ruled mortals and had actual nations. Very strange. I did research it—yes, yes, don’t peck me. This has a point.”
Czautha had to turn away from the Stitch-folk being slaughtered as Silvenia spoke.
“Khelta descended from great necromancers, but she never hit Nekhret’s sheer power or undead. She went against it; I think she saw too many high-grade undead and wanted her low-level skeletons, hence her nation’s current predicament. She was a good ruler. I think she had two high-classes, hence why Khelt is such a miracle. This Vizir? He fights like a battlemage from that era. Never touch the ground, always be flying, hit and run tactics. But he doesn’t know these faith-classes, and I think he’s very wary of being hit. See how he keeps at range?”
It was true. The Vizir was dive-bombing the People of God, flying down to throw spells before pulling up to hundreds of feet and moving at such speed only a talented [Archer] could keep up. You could read that as contempt, but Czautha murmured.
“Can they kill him, Silvenia?”
“Unclear. Fascinating how powerful their anti-undead abilities are, aren’t they! Faith. Here’s my analysis of these ‘Miracles’ so far. Watch him hit that group of higher-level Stitch-folk. I wish I could [Appraise] them…”
Silvenia pointed at a group of [Clerics] desperately holding together, and Hecrelunn fired a [Siege Fireball] before following it up with an [Acid Cloud] and then [Diamond Spray] spells. Silvenia nodded.
“They block the first spell. So their barriers are…damage-nullifiers. Modern mage-barriers don’t work like that. With [Arcane Barrier], it takes a certain amount of damage, and then it goes down. But the [Siege Fireball] takes down that barrier, and—it’s not airtight.”
Acid burning the [Clerics] who formed up another shield only for shards of diamond to strike them. Silvenia nodded to herself.
“Multiple attacks to break it down if it’s a damage-nullifier. They normally last only for one shot. Although—hold on—”
The Vizir went for another pass and fired the [Diamond Spray] spell at Yirene, who was covering fleeing People of God, and they lodged in the air. Silvenia amended her comment.
“Okay, some Miracles are damage-nullifiers, some seem like they’re overload-types. But either way, you can blast through them with enough magic. See, he’s doing it to establish how much magic he’d have to use.”
Hecrelunn was blasting Yirene with spells as her arms shook, until the air imploded, and she fell to her knees. He lazily pointed a finger at her as one of the faithful tried to shield Yirene. A child. Czautha looked away.
[Flaming Meteor]. The spell hit the two, and Hecrelunn laughed—then recoiled, and Silvenia sat up slowly.
A glowing dome was encompassing Yirene and the girl. Produced by the shaking hand of the girl—Hecrelunn rose higher, dodging miracles hurled at him, visibly snarling, and Silvenia ripped up the notes she’d been taking.
“Okay. Forget everything I said. Miracles can be variable, and they seem to scale not based on mana, but on ‘faith’. Desperation. They’re a reactive shield. The worst kind of thing to try to account for with your spellcasting.”
She scowled, floating closer.
“It’s too damn powerful.”
So said the Death of Magic, who could eradicate islands with a single spell. Serinpotva held a wing out, and Czautha squeezed it.
“This Revenant intends to wipe out all the People of God. Can he do it?”
“Hmm. Unless they’ve got more I haven’t seen, they just don’t have the ability to hit him while he’s up there. And his barriers—aha, he took that shot on purpose.”
The Vizir had been hit by a single flying arrow shot from below. The arrow, glowing with the Prophet’s fire, collapsed an orange shield, but he had multiple layers of defenses, and Silvenia watched his crimson eye-lights narrow slightly.
“Oh, he didn’t like that. It probably took down an entire shield spell. But he can layer them, and unless the Prophet hits him straight on, I think they’re dead. I imagine every other [Mage] with sense is appreciating this lesson. We should send him a gift basket.”
As if he could hear her, the Vizir glanced up at the scrying spells, pure annoyance on his face. Silvenia waved at him cheerily.
“Hello! Can you see me? I’d love to hire you—oh, no, he can’t.”
She watched him dive down and come up with a huge ball of sand, which began to melt. Silvenia winced.
“Oh, he’s decided magic isn’t as effective as physical matter. Good call. I’d bet he’s going to either shower them with molten glass or make a construct out of it and have it burn them all to death while he snipes the Prophet. Which is just so—”
She sighed.
“[Remote Teleportation]. Hello? That guy clearly doesn’t have anti-teleportation wards. Teleport him up and [Magnify Gravity] by a hundred times. What are we doing here?”
She began heckling the Prophet as Czautha shook her head. The Vizir was laughing, and she knew he was doing it to instill terror on Khelt’s enemies. He kept varying how he killed them. Flee, run in terror, and be a lesson to others. The Djinni knew the axioms of war, for she had practiced them on enemies she found worthy, like the Blighted Kingdom and Roshal.
But it was abhorrent. If Khelt lived but for him, small wonder they had so many enemies. He was the monster the Prophet had feared after all.
 
——
 
The Prophet was wide open. A man raising his staff, shouting as he tried to defend his people. And they were praying, but the laughing Vizir rose higher as blood rained down. He had ripped it straight out of a Garuda’s chest and created a blood rain. Now, the burning orb of glass was churning white-hot as he mocked them.
This was the moment to take Harvey out. He wasn’t even looking at Pawn. The Worker knew it, but his head was craned back. He was watching Hecrelunn.
The champion of Eternal Khelt was laughing as his magic and aura turned the sky above into a rain of blood. But it seemed performative to Pawn. The swooping [Vizir] was a bit too fast, moving in a zig-zag pattern, not flying carefree and superior like the birds that Bird like to point out to him.
He was also—cruel. Another of the faithful died as Hecrelunn snatched them up, and this time, his voice was frustrated.
“[Flay the Living]. Scream for me, mortals.”
Pawn looked away once—he saw a bundle of flesh falling, and then a writhing, red figure of veins and flesh was shrieking. Hecrelunn was amplifying the shrieks over the People of God.
Trying to break their faith. He understood something about the war that was being fought, and he was trying to rout them. Pawn’s ally had created the opening the Painted Antinium needed. The Worker prayed for a moment as Hecrelunn released his victim and pointed his fingers down.
“Now, People of ‘God’. Try to survive until I may vent a millionth of my fury upon you.”
Thunder was booming, and the skies had turned blood-red. Byproducts of his spells or just illusion magic? It fit him.
“Pawn.”
Yellow Splatters was tensing for a charge. The [First Heretic-Captain] drew a sword forged for Antinium Soldier hands, and Harvey never noticed, but Marrieh did.
She turned from where she was guarding the Prophet, and her face was grim as she waited. Setting herself against both Antinium. Pawn nodded once as he drew his club.
“Yellow Splatters, do you have my back? Painted Antinium?”
“Always.”
“Good.”
Above them, the Vizir raised his arms higher to throw down the molten hill of glass and stopped. He peered down at the Prophet and spoke, annoyed.
“Antinium-thing. Move. You’re in the way.”
Harvey spun. Pawn was two dozen paces away from him. He lifted his staff, snarling, but the [Priest] wasn’t gazing at him. He was holding his club to one side as he held his Book of Heaven and Sky, and he was reading from it.
“No. I think I’m in the right place, Vizir. Strange, I forgot to add this section in.”
“What? Move, fool.”
The Vizir swooped down, but Pawn delicately raised a quill and scribbled in the book. Then he peered up.
“No. I need to write a new section about right and wrong. Somehow, I never added it because I thought it was obvious. But you are the very definition of an ally I would rather never have. Enough, Vizir Hecrelunn. Fall back.”
“…What?”
The Revenant was so surprised he floated back in the air, but Pawn just glanced at the bloody ground and bodies. Lazimeh was standing over the dead Draugr, panting, as rippling air revealed invisible Ghouls. Slaughter. The [Priest] pointed up.
“We are both people of faith. I did not come here to annihilate the People of God. Let alone children. You are everything that the Prophet rightly hates Khelt for. Fly away, Vizir.”
“You—do not give orders—to me.”
The strain of keeping the molten orb of glass or the incredulity of being lectured by Pawn made Hecrelunn’s voice break. He roared down at Pawn.
“I am ending this damned affair and keeping your people from being destroyed! Move or I will annihilate you.”
He shrieked down, and the [Priest of Wrath and Sky]’s eyes flashed. Were those…pupils made of light staring up at Hecrelunn? Pawn spoke back, voice flat.
“That’s my line. I am only sparing you because I know you are loyal to Khelt. No more slaughter. Fly off, little skeleton, or I’ll unmake you.”
Hecrelunn’s eye-lights turned into pinpoints of rage. He hesitated, then threw the orb of glass down.
“Then die.”
Liquid glass splashed down around Pawn, and the watching Painted Folk cried out—then gasped. The light of Heaven bloomed and reflected around the glass running around Pawn’s capstone Skill.
[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. He swept his club around and spoke.
“He can’t hit us from above. Painted Antinium, to me. Harvey?”
He turned, and the Prophet hesitated only a moment before they both lifted staff and club. Hecrelunn dove and attacked from the side, under Pawn’s shield.
“[Wave of Blood]! [Ichor Burst]!”
He conjured a wave which he exploded into needle-shards of blood. Harvey split the wave, and Pawn’s shield caught the magic. Hecrelunn flashed overhead as both leaders tried to strike him. He had an orb of something noxious in his hands. A bomb of pestilence he was aiming at point blank r—
A hand of bone slapped Hecrelunn out of the sky. The Vizir saw it coming at the last moment and threw his [Orb of Pestilence], but it just splashed over the Bone Giant’s face. A dead Drake grinning at him.
“What?”
The blow tossed Hecrelunn across the ground, and he rose, firing spells from both hands at—
Where had it gone? The undead that had struck him had vanished. The Vizir performed an aileron roll as more spears of light ate at his barrier spells. Who—how—?
The culprit was standing on the ground just under Hecrelunn. The Vizir saw a single Antinium without paint on his carapace raise a fist. Yellow Splatters, his shell permanently colored by his identity, spoke.
“We might be sinners, but you’re a monster, Vizir. [Vision of Despair: Bone Giant’s Swing].”
A Bone Giant appeared, and that hand rose. This time, Hecrelunn dodged it as the [First Heretic] of the Antinium conjured the nightmare of the Winter Solstice. He pointed down.
“Die, traitors!”
Yellow Splatters threw up a hand, and Marrieh’s club met the [Disintegration Ray]. The air screamed, and her club—vanished. She reached for another as the Vizir flew higher, shrieking insults, bombarding Pawn’s Skill. He whirled and threw out one arm, shouting.
“Undead of Khelt, by your eternal service, arise! Arise, legions of Khelt, and unmake them all!”
The skeletons broke the earth, and they were rising now. By the tens of thousands, and Pawn sighed. Then his head turned.
“—What is that?”
The Prophet of God turned as well, and his despairing eyes lit up with a mania, a fervor. He began to laugh.
“Judgement. Judgement on all us sinners—”
Hecrelunn dove at them, and Pawn kept staring northwards, towards the [Light of Faith]. He felt like something had reached a crescendo there. A critical mass of faith, like a building music or weight in the air. Until it was heavy, dense enough to…
Open something. A door.
A gate.
Something reached out from the other side and pulled the door open wider. Pawn spoke.
“Ah, hells.”
The first Angel set foot on Chandrar, and there was a stillness to the air as it drew a flaming sword. The worshipping People of God gazed up and beheld it.
Look, come and see. It had six wings and eight eyes. Flesh glowing like sunlight.
A blade of white flame that scorched the soul.
It came into this world naked, faceless, and the light it brought invigorated the soul and burnt filth away.
It spoke, without a mouth, like the tolling of bells. Every Agelum in the world cried out when they felt it descend, like a bright-hot brand touching their hearts, ecstatic and painful. Cousins kith and kin to them but purer. Different.
The Angel of God flew southwards as the Vizir turned, and the Prophet fell to his knees, weeping in joy and prostrating himself, and then his eyes caught the being as it flew at Pawn, blade raised. He saw it had stitching along its neck and joints.
An Angel of Stitch-folk. The first was lightest and swiftest, calling a toll for the changing of the world’s order and the ending to all the People of God’s foes.
The second sounded like breaking glass and carried a spear of glowing light. The third set off [Dangersenses] across the Kingdom of Khelt, and its light was visible in Germina and Reim, a glowing star falling to earth.
Then the King of Khelt paused and beheld the doom of Khelt.
 
——
 
They attacked so fast that Yellow Splatters barely saw them move. The first one dove at Pawn. Pawn, not Hecrelunn. The [First Heretic] threw himself forwards, and the sword slashed across his chest and hurt.
It hurt his soul. He screamed as he struck at it, but it danced around him like a swallow, sword slashing.
Like a [Blademaster]. He had seen Numbtongue fighting, but even the Hobgoblin looked slow and sloppy compared to—
Pawn swung his club, and the Angel darted back, skimming across the ground at the other Painted Antinium. Harvey whispered.
“Judgement upon us all. Repent. Rep—”
Pawn kicked him in the face as the [Priest] tried to heal Yellow Splatters, but these were no normal wounds. The [Heretic] whispered.
“Pawn, it’s coming—”
The first Angel was slashing at Pawn’s head when Hecrelunn’s [Deathbolts] made it twist. Instead of dodging, it cut through eight of the spells, and the Vizir halted, finger raised.
“Anti-magic blade. Hm.”
He flew upwards, then spotted the second Angel bearing down on him. Pawn dropped Yellow Splatters.
“Stellar Word, heal him!”
He backed up as the first Angel dove at him again, and Hecrelunn scrambled away from the second Angel. He was no longer confident.
“That light. What is—argh!”
His scream as he fell to earth was pained. Pain? For a second, Pawn peered up and didn’t see the skeleton dressed in rich, regal robes with bright crimson lights.
He saw a man, hooked nosed, sneeringly handsome, black hair, and crimson eyes wide with p—
The [Vizir] caught himself an inch off the ground and glanced up. The light flashed over him again as the third Angel flew, and it burned his very soul. He took one look at it and fled.
Two pursued him as thousands of skeletons advanced on the People of God, who had fallen to their knees in prayer. Hecrelunn was skimming over the undead’s heads, firing spells back at the two Angels who cut the spells out of the sky. They did not attack the skeletons below them.
They didn’t need to.
The light from the third one, who had four pairs of wings and was visibly larger than the other two, bathed the skeletons, and they peered up and…vanished.
A skeleton wearing Khelt’s armor gazed into the light of the Angel as it hefted a spear, and it turned to dust in a moment. There was a flicker. A vision.
—a [Craftsman] running a blade across soft leather, working it as he stood at a stall outside a city of blue sand—
The skeleton collapsed. Another was aiming an arrow as the light touched it.
—girl aiming a bow at a fair. Grinning at the bobbing targets painted to look like a Dragon—
Memories. All that remained in Khelt’s undead were brought to light, made, for a second, mortal, then erased.
The undead crumbled in seconds. Ten thousand vanished into bone dust and empty armor as the Kheltians cried out, and the Angels swept down from above. Pawn was backing up, trying to defend himself, but they fought like—
Slash. The smallest Angel came down, a two-handed cut which he moved to block. So it saw him and repositioned, swinging its wings out so it curved around into a sideways slash that raked his side. Then as he turned, swinging wildly, it spun around his back, slashing twice. Flying up—
The blows burned the Antinium’s carapace, but Pawn only felt the searing pain of heat. Faith. He was a being of faith. But it was so damn fast—
He threw himself forwards as the blade speared down. It would have burned a hole straight through his head from above and boiled him from the inside. He knew as he tumbled forwards, rising, that it would have him before he could r—
The Angel was angling for a deathblow when it swivelled in midair. The spear made out of lightning still blew it out of the air, and the People of God cried out. A voice from above yelled down to Pawn, the most beautiful thing he’d heard since his [Princess]…
“Pawn! Get up the ramp! Hurry—”
Pewerthe was shouting at him, hefting her masterpiece pot, but Captain Cikroleth spun the wheel as he snapped.
“No time! It’s coming around—to arms! Don’t let it touch the Heir or my ship!”
Sand at Sea took off, flashing a broadside at the first Angel, which dove and spun—and ate another shot as Rad Rema used a Skill to curve a ballista bolt.
“Hah! Eat that you damned apparitions! We—Kraken’s tits.”
One of the two Angels pursuing Hecrelunn heard the alarmed tolling of bells from the first Angel and turned. The spear-wielding Angel shot towards Sand at Sea and focused on Pewerthe, who hefted the pot desperately. The first Angel dove back down to Pawn, and he grimly raised his club.
“Alright. You want a fight? Come and get it. I didn’t get just one miracle from the Winter Solstice. I got two. [Miracle: Avatar of Faith].”
He began to glow, and this time, the flaming sword met his club as he intercepted it and knocked it down. Pawn slashed back as the Angel recoiled, and he pointed at Harvey.
“First this damn Angel, then you, Harvey.”
But he was glancing towards the Vizir and Pewerthe. He could fight the Angel with his faith, but she was on an undead ship. Then he heard Hecrelunn scream and cry out as the [Light of Faith] bathed him in a ray of light. He fled higher, mana shields burning, and Pawn was shouting for his Painted Antinium to help the others. He couldn’t do anything more. He was in a fight for his life.
 
——
 
Pewerthe saw the second Angel coming at them, and she had no idea what it was. Only that it was beautiful, terrible, and seemed to her to be made to slay undead. It was slicing through each spell from Sand at Sea with incredible grace. And…it was no mindless undead.
It was after her. It dove at the ship and slashed across the deck, and she flinched; it was Irg who parried the spear with a sword. He watched it crack as the spear of light bounced back, then grinned and tossed her free with his spare arm.
“Take care of Khelt for us, would you, Heir?”
He swung, barehanded, at the second Angel, who let him punch it in the chest. It had no visible genitalia that Pewerthe could see, and it floated there, naked, as it speared Irg through the chest.
He cried out, and for a moment, a Gnoll was stumbling across the deck, not a skeleton with bits of ancient fur stuck to it. His fur was grey and white, like a wolf’s, and his brown eyes locked with her as he clutched the spear in his chest—
Turned to dust. Fell as the crew of Sand at Sea cried out and stormed towards the Angel. It flew higher, avoiding Captain Cikroleth leaping towards it, and hurled the spear down. It missed Pewerthe as Rad Rema shoved her back.
The spear passed through the recently-repaired deck and through the hull without slowing. The Angel dove, snatching it up from the ground, and Captain Cikroleth shouted.
“More speed! Kick up a sandstorm and stand together! Keep the Heir safe!”
Irg vanished in a second. The crew saw the being that seemed to counter their very existence coming upwards, screaming like breaking glass. A prayer? A message from Heaven? Pewerthe thought it did have eyes and a mouth, if nothing else. The first Angel had only eyes.
Was it greater than the first? If so, the third…she locked eyes with it and threw her pot.
The object filled with dangerous items, the faith of the Antinium, and explosives flew true and straight. The second Angel twisted—it clipped a wing—and nearly dropped. Then the pot exploded behind it on the ground, and Pewerthe cursed.
“Damnit.”
One shot and wasted. She walked back across the deck as Captain Cikroleth strode forwards to meet the second Angel. Pewerthe moved past the Revenants on deck and towards the rolled-up boarding ramp, which became wooden slats until you released the magical cord. Then it turned into a sturdy ramp—
“Heir? What are you doing?”
Rad Rema saw Pewerthe undo the knot, and the ramp engaged. The ground was flashing past them as Sand at Sea circled the battlefield, but the ship listed slightly as the new drag on the ship made it tilt. Captain Cikroleth spun, but Pewerthe was speaking.
“I am Pewerthe, the Heir of Khelt and acting ruler. Sand at Sea will disengage. Do not fight that thing. Khelt needs you more than I. You will go and secure the next Heir of Khelt and defend our kingdom, evacuate it if need be.”
“Heir!”
Captain Cikroleth was striding at her, but she put one foot on the gangplank and turned back to him. Her smile flashed over her face as she saw the second Angel slow. So it could think. It could tell what she was doing; perhaps it was even listening. So she lowered her voice.
“As Heir of Khelt, I appoint Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass, the Arbiter Queen, as the next Heir of Khelt. Don’t argue with me, Captain Cikroleth. You of all people should know when to avoid a losing battle.”
He could have grabbed her, she knew, but he didn’t. So she put one foot over the railing, heaved herself up, and slid down the ramp. She tried to land on her feet, but then—
She hit the ground and rolled for at least a hundred paces and wondered if she’d broken every bone in her body. When she sat up, Sand at Sea was heading away from her. Pewerthe blew a kiss at it, then laid on her back as the sky brightened.
“Why me, I wonder? Because I’m judged? Because you can tell Khelt cannot endure without us?”
She stared up at the divine messenger with its glowing spear and heard it speaking, but shrugged.
“I can’t understand you. Is that how it’s supposed to work? You’re very inefficient for a being of whatever God is supposed to be. But I don’t particularly care for your God either, from how he’s acted in my lands.”
To her great amusement, she thought that pissed the Angel off. It raised its spear up, twirling the haft to throw, and Pewerthe put her head back down and stared up at the sky. She didn’t feel like facing death head on. It could meet her on the ground.
She gazed up at the beautiful sky, torn by miracles, and the coastal grey-blue bird flying high overhead, far too far inland.
Konska?
“[Falcon Diiiiiiiive]!”
Frieke the Falcon slashed through the Angel as it recoiled, and the Sword of Serept left a blue line through the being, who screamed and slashed—but she was already rolling away. She came up, sword swinging, deflected two spear-thrusts, and the third cut across her chest.
“Konska!”
The Seahawk had already been diving. The Angel was on top of Frieke, spearing down, when the bird flew into it and delivered a [Falcon Kick]. The blow spun the Angel around, and Frieke slashed again—the Angel didn’t seem harmed by Konska’s blow.
However, being shot through the forehead did upset it. Especially when the arrow blew apart. It emerged from the cloud of debris as Alked Fellbow yanked Pewerthe up.
“It won’t die from a single slash or shot. Watch that spear. It’s anti-magic.”
“The sword’s still working. Get Pewerthe out of here, Fellbow!”
Frieke checked the blade. Alked let go of Pewerthe, nocked an arrow, and fired point-blank as the Angel came at him.
“[Eightfold Volley]. Busy.”
The Angel backed up, deflecting each arrow he loosed as they detonated around it, but didn’t see Frieke sneaking up on it before she shoved the blade through where its liver would have been. She darted away, and Pewerthe stumbled back.
“Frieke? Alked? What do I…?”
“Run!”
They shouted at her, and she turned and ran. Both Named-rank adventurers saw the Angel glancing after Pewerthe, and Frieke grinned.
“This sucks. Let’s clip its wings first.”
Konska screamed agreement as Alked took aim. He was sweating. One Angel was battling Pawn and the Painted Antinium. The second was here, but the third and mightiest…
He saw the Vizir raining down spells on the People of God, screaming as the [Light of Faith] tracked him, a ray of purifying light. He was trying to kill the Prophet, but where was the third Angel?
Then, as Alked leapt back from the spear-thrust and pivoted, tracking the nimble Angel trying to get around him, he saw a man standing in the open sand in front of his people. Halberd planted by his side.
The King of Khelt watched the final Angel descending, and he thought it was a beautiful foe to bring ruin to his kingdom.
 
——
 
He was late. One glance at this battlefield told him how many people had bled and died for him. It was like no battlefield he had ever seen, save for perhaps the worst of magical duels that left residue in the air and ground. But this…?
He saw the Antinium’s vision of Heaven mixed with colored earth from their flood, white flames from the Prophet’s people, and dust.
So much dust. He had felt the undead of Khelt die, their bodies turned to nothing. Even beheld the scraps of memory that were all that was left.
Each scrap was all but useless now, but it might be the foundation of Khelt again. They just had to rebuild the memories. Soul by soul.
Three generations.
Khelt might not last three hours. Not with that divine Angel. Its light.
It hurt. The undead felt no pain, but the screaming Hecrelunn was burning in faith’s aegis, and Fetohep felt the aura of the final Angel of God. It reminded him of pain.
Like…the feeling of taking a too-deep breath and holding it. The straining towards oblivion as it tried to leave your chest. That was the pain. Not as intense as you might think, but with every second, he felt his very soul trying to escape.
It was true annihilation. But he did not run. As every eye turned towards him, the King of Khelt lifted his halberd that had once served him in life and spoke.
“I am Fetohep, nineteenth King of Khelt. In Khelta’s name, I order you gone, trespassers against her lands.”
The final Angel cried out with the sounds of a pipe organ, like notes of music. Unlike the first two, its features were more realized. He saw a nose, lips, and of course, staring eyes. On its face, shoulders, navel—what being was this?
It spoke in the voice of music, and the language struck his soul. The meaning filtered into his withered memory of a heart, which hurt and quailed before it.
The Angel said:
“Repent.”
Then the King of Khelt smiled, a weary smile as his people beheld him and cried out. For him to flee, for the dead to protect him. As if it were not his fault that they had come to this disaster. He lifted his hand and spoke.
“To all those who watch, my people, nations of this world, know that it was I, Fetohep, who failed Eternal Khelt in its hour of need. I and I alone. Let the sins of Khelt end with me.”
A fool’s hope, perhaps. A fool’s words to beg for it all to be wrapped up so neatly. But he could do no more. Fetohep saw the final Angel carried a greatsword made of some shining crystal. He swung his halberd as it closed like an arrow.
Let us dance one final time. He was a king, not a warrior, but warrior was all he had talent for. So.
[Spear Dance: The Sands of Zeikhal Twist Upwards]—
His halberd flicked and jabbed, arcing into longer slashes as he stepped counter-clockwise, drawing together in a spiral. He leapt forwards, engaging the Angel and—
Oh. It was divine. It met his spear-dance and copied it. Reversed the pattern and threw it back at him. Their weapons rang against each other, magic meeting faith in crackles of fading spellcraft. Fetohep swung down his halberd as the Angel swept its blade up.
“[Split the Earth].”
He slashed down, and his halberd’s worn metal blade, enchanted six hundred years hence, met the crystal greatsword. Fetohep felt a light impact and stumbled. He swept the halberd around into a guard-position, then glanced at the tip.
It was sundered, the other edge broken and lying in the sand. The Angel’s blade, which could end magic, lanced out. Fetohep spun the halberd, and it caught the blow, the ancient wood cleaved. The tip of the blade slashed across his chest, and he stumbled back.
His people saw the purple robes fall back and reveal a naked ribcage of mummified, brown flesh, empty ribs. The cut across Fetohep’s chest showed his empty abdomen, and he put a hand to his ribs as the Angel danced back, singing like a chorus of praises to the People of God.
“Oh.”
He inspected his hand, then lifted it.
For a second…he’d imagined he was bleeding. Weaponless, now, he faced the Angel and knew it.
“[Weapon Master].”
It had no Skills, but it was as good as any [Spearmaster] of his era. Such flawless attack and defense. He had never been a [Halberdmaster] himself. The King of Khelt exhaled.
“Alas. I was no great warrior to make the world sing of me.”
He set himself as it came at him, blade flicking out as it stayed just out of reach, cutting, whittling down his body of undead flesh until it came time for the final blow.
 
——
 
“It fights like us.”
That was all the Agelum said in the shocked silence of House Shoel. The beings who had been created to be divine guardians of a land that had never existed felt the Angel, even two continents away. Like burning flames that drew their weary bodies and eyes to it.
So close to what we are, but purer. The faith. The faith…they were hungry, they realized. Starved and dying, and they had not known for what until they saw the Antinium and Prophet. Now they knew, but Paxere turned.
“Better than you? Uziel? Uziel?”
Lord Uziel, who was one of the best of the Agelum in experience and mastery with weapons, watched carefully. He shook his head after a moment.
“Not…not in technique. But in speed, strength? We are old, tired. It can fly. It is like a Warform, but not in technique. It knows how to fight with that greatsword, but is not, I think, a master of it.”
The nuance of what that meant utterly escaped Paxere. She sat back.
“We must capture or obtain one. These People of God…I’ll arrange it. This King of Khelt is doomed, then.”
Uziel never glanced away, and he shrugged.
“He was not that much better with a halberd than it, from what I saw. He has lost his weapon, but he has skill and Skill enough. He is not dead yet.”
Fetohep was a barehanded undead fighting an anti-undead specialist with a magical blade. Paxere snorted, but politely, when one of the older Lucifen glanced at her.
“Unless he’s a bare-handed expert, one good slash and he’s dead.”
“True. But I remember the King of Khelt. I was just a boy, of course, and he already a Revenant, but my forebear told me stories of him. The Badger of Khelt. A name for a stubborn warrior.”
Uziel’s eyes locked on Fetohep. As far as Paxere was concerned, this new class and power was beyond even magic of the same level. What could this king of a crumbling nation do against it?
She watched as the Angel darted around Fetohep, slashing his arm, taking a nick out of his legs, shredding his purple robe as he lashed out with his fists, leaping and trying to catch it. Then it seemed to tire of the chase and lifted its sword overhead.
Fetohep struck the Angel in the chest, and it didn’t so much as rock as he put all his strength behind the blow. The sand billowed up in a vast cloud behind the Angel, but it stood, singing a praise to its God.
Then it ran him through the chest, and for a second, Paxere saw a man.
 
——
 
“Fetohep?”
Trey turned when he heard the cry. It came from the Kheltians. He saw the King of Khelt impaled on the blade the Angel held, and for a moment, he saw not the familiar, undead features of Fetohep, but—
A man? The blade and power of the Angels that revealed the mortal soul made Fetohep flicker a moment. He stood on the sands, and Trey’s eyes strained to see the distant figure—until he turned and realized the Kheltians were all staring away.
At the ground, the sky. Wiping tears from their eyes.
Not a single one looked upon the man who stood there for a second, gazing down at the blade in his chest. His face was a grimace of pain, but as the Angel tried to twist the blade, chiming triumph, it peeked up and froze.
Fetohep of Khelt had no features. Or rather, they had blown away. The image of the man was flaking, dissolving into bits of sand. As if the hundreds of years had turned even the memory of his features into that of a worn statue, the details lost to time.
It was the corpse’s face, yellowed teeth and gaunt flesh that revealed themselves as the Angel’s blade tried to move, then the golden flames in his eye sockets. Pain. Yes, true pain, a sword through the chest, made Fetohep’s voice ragged.
But his hand was on the greatsword, and he refused to let it twist. He spoke.
“Newborn warrior. A word of advice.”
The Angel tried to yank its sword free, but the King of Khelt’s hands were…aglow. And his voice rang with the same imperious tones. A [King]’s authority. His aura. Fetohep tightened his grip on the blade.
“A warrior does not gloat until the battle is done.”
The Angel let go of the greatsword and threw a punch. Fetohep caught the punch and swung. He struck the Angel as hard as he could and it didn’t—
Budge. The King of Khelt felt the blow run through it, but how?
[Greater Resistance: Physical]. The Prophet of God was laughing, praying as he saw the Skill hovering over the Angel’s head. A blessing from the ritual. A warrior made to slay the King of Khelt. The King of Khelt’s eye-flames dimmed a moment.
Unfair. The counterblow struck him before he could dodge. Everything—flickered. His connection to the world, his body. Fetohep seized the Angel’s hand as it tried to rip the greatsword up. He put a hand on the Angel’s chest and heaved—
The glowing figure flew sixty feet, hit the ground, and bounced before backflipping onto its feet. The People of God, who had been screaming praises, faltered. The Prophet’s eyes went wide.
“Ah. How…gratifying.”
So he could do that, at least. With a grimace, Fetohep pulled the blade from his chest and felt at the hole in his flesh. The memory of the pain was redoubled as he held the sword aloft, marvelling at its balance and sharpness.
It hurt just to hold. A weapon not meant for him. And the Angel was back on its feet. It seemed wrathful. Annoyed Fetohep had managed to knock it back. But Fetohep had its sword.
He lifted the sword up, and the Angel tensed, for it was now weaponless, but Fetohep hurled the sword back at its feet. It stared at the blade as the people of Khelt groaned, even Trey Atwood. The King of Khelt was stumbling. He felt like his lungs were burning for air, but he could not breathe.
As if he were dying again. He pointed at the blade as the Angel tilted its head, confused, and his voice filled the air.
“Child of God. Know this, if you remember anything of this day. A true warrior behaves in dignity to all worthy opponents. He does not waver. He does not fall back when the lives of the innocent are at stake. He is honorable.”
He gave the Angel back its blade. Did the King of Khelt’s arrogance know no end? The Angel hesitantly snatched the blade up, inspecting it as if searching for a trap. Then it lunged at Fetohep, shouting like a song.
Again, it ran him through, and this time, a cry arose from the people of Khelt who stood in a narrowing circle, hands reaching for the King of Khelt, and they heard a muffled voice. He tried to knock the Angel back, and it dodged his palm-strike. Headbutted him.
Flashes of light. It dodged three blows, four, then stepped back. The King of Khelt stumbled and gazed down at the sword in his guts. Then at the Angel, who waited.
Slowly, pulling the sword out inch by inch, Fetohep removed it from his stomach. He gasped, then lifted the blade.
“Fetohep, don’t—”
He threw the blade back, tossing the greatsword like a spear until it landed at the Angel’s feet. Every instinct in the King of Khelt told him to hold onto the blade, to break it, or to hurl it aside.
When the Angel drew the blade again, he flinched. But he stood before it and rasped.
“Warrior. One does not mock his lessers. We must die well. Those who stride the battlefield must be more than beasts.”
A third time that sword pierced towards him, and this time he twisted out of the way and it scored a line across his chest. The King of Khelt fell backwards, his purple robes tattered.
“I alone did this. Have mercy on my people. I beg you.”
He turned his head, and a familiar young woman’s face was gazing up at him. Hands over her mouth. A [Waitress] who liked to dress up in Koirezune’s restaurants.
“Your Majesty! Victory!”
Fetohep went to catch the greatsword with his hands along the flat of the blade. The Angel twisted it and slashed across his neck. He reeled, and someone cried out.
A man who had been a Day Servant sixty-eight times. The record-holder in Koirezune, who wore the little badges he was awarded like medals of honor. Standing next to his wife, who made little paper planes and flew them in the morning.
He knew all their names. 
“Back. Stand back.”
Fetohep warned them. The Angel’s sword whirled towards his neck again, and he ducked the blade.
Such a perfect foe. His fist touched its stomach, and it shifted backwards a step from the force of his blow, which cracked the earth under Fetohep’s feet. Then it was chopping down, and he rolled across the ground, besmirching his robes.
When his head rose, the Angel’s blade was set to strike him down, but it waited. When Fetohep rose to his feet, it swung, and he stepped back as the earth broke. He tried to advance into that gap, and again, it flicked the greatsword like it weighed nothing at all.
His arm was laid open, exposing long-rotten tendons, and Fetohep wished his limbs were as strong as he remembered. But he was smiling even as a moan arose from his people.
This is what I deserve. Let it be a fine end, warrior to warrior. He threw himself forwards, heedless of the blade. Pewerthe. Where was Pewerthe?
“Khelt, I pass my will to you. I have failed you, my people.”
Hands reaching for the Angel. If he could but grasp it, then maybe—
It circled him, slashing, refusing to let him get close. And now his hands were a blur. He had to block the sword—
The King of Khelt raised his fist and parried the greatsword. His fist touched the sharp edge and knocked it aside. Just once. One blow out of four. The Angel recoiled and saw a flicker of gold on the King of Khelt’s hands.
Aura.
Fetohep felt the contact and no pain. So that trick worked on even blades of faith. He smiled.
Forwards again.
It lunged at him, a perfect thrust, and he stepped forwards. Both of them had read the other perfectly, and the Angel’s slash cut along Fetohep’s back, scoring a line of—
He backhanded it, and it went sprawling. Now, Fetohep’s golden eye-flames were bright. He raised a hand and hesitated.
Waited for the Angel to get up. Voices were screaming at him again, calling him a fool, telling him to strike. But he could not.
His pride that had led him here would not allow him to. Not against this beautiful creature. So the Angel flew off the ground and hovered there. Inspecting him, then darting left, right.
He tilted his head, observing the Angel as it circled. It was moving even faster, and when it thrust again, they met and he dealt it a blow across its shoulder as it cut into one leg.
Both staggered. Fetohep saw the Angel fall to one knee and realized his fists were striking it.
Aura. But it rose and slashed across his face, the tip of the blade cutting through where his nose would have been.
Too fast for him. 
He saw the places he had struck on the glowing warrior were faded, like bruises, but they grew brighter, healing as the People of God prayed. His leg’s rotted flesh did not regrow where it had been severed.
This shall end only one way. But if he could just injure it, then maybe—once more, Fetohep threw himself forwards onto the blade that cut through his right shoulder.
[Hammer Blow].
The Angel hit the ground so hard it left an imprint in the sand. Fetohep’s eye-flames went out.
Static.
A world vanishing. For a moment, he stood on blue sands, and Khelta gazed down at him. The King of Khelt reached out to her.
—Felt the world return. Stumbled back as the Angel rose to one knee, shaking its head. The King of Khelt waited, limbs visibly shaking now. He saw the golden hair shifting as the Angel rose—
And then it juddered as a blow caught the Angel from behind. The divine warrior twisted, and another rock bounced off its shoulder as it cut six more from the sky.
“Your Majesty! Run! Run!”
Fetohep’s subjects were throwing stones, shouting. Trying to block him from the—
Fetohep saw the sword rise and moved.
“No! Get back! This is my battle—”
The Angel’s sword cleaved down, and a Kheltian man who’d hurled a piece of stone gazed down at the bloody stump of an arm. He opened his mouth and screamed, and the sword swung for his throat—
Fetohep caught the blade in glowing hands, and the Angel recoiled, then flitted back. It slashed, and Kheltians who had been surrounding the duel fled backwards.
“Warrior, halt. Your battle is with me—”
It wasn’t listening. The Angel was under attack as Kheltians threw rocks, fired spells. They barely touched it, but it whirled, and that terrible sword rose.
Fetohep saw the Kheltians fleeing, and a boy stumbled. He was holding a rock to throw, and Anleth, the little gambler, gazed up with eyes filled with fear as the Angel brought the sword down—
The King of Khelt caught the blade and locked eyes with the bright gaze.
“Warrior—”
The Angel kicked him across the ground, and he struck several of his people, but he was so light…he stumbled, and the sword was thrusting to run him through. And the woman who flew kites behind—
“Stop.”
The blade halted as he grabbed it again. The Angel slammed against its own weapon. It strained, but the King of Khelt refused to move.
“Warrior. Thou do not harm the innocent. Even if they raise a hand against—”
The spinning backhand from the Angel made his head snap back. Fetohep stumbled, and the Angel wrenched its weapon back and whirled it.
“Sinners all. Die.”
It brought its blade up, and the Kheltians behind Fetohep were frozen. No instincts to even flee. Fetohep saw a girl, the [Secret Broker] Mrar, shaking, a little stick in hand.
“There is a child here. Angel, desis—”
It swung that sword horizontally, to chop him, Mrar, and everyone else into pieces. Fetohep’s arm blocked the greatsword, and gold met gold. The blade jarred out of the Angel’s grip.
“Stop. Don’t you understand? Honor—”
It charged him, and he pivoted, letting it strike his chest as he whirled away from the Kheltians, who scattered. And Anleth was shouting.
“Your Majesty! Your—”
They were all yelling his name as the King of Khelt let the Angel batter his ribs, his very soul burning. He hurled it aside, and it snatched up the blade.
“Be thou returned to dust, King of Khelt.”
“Yes. But not my people. I beseech you. They have done nothing wrong.”
The Angel turned its head to the scattered stones, to the Prophet of God, and it raised the blade higher as it seemed to listen.
“No mercy.”
It swung that sword again, as if trying to cleave the nation in two, and Fetohep’s hand rose. His head turned, away from the Angel, and met Anleth’s eyes. The boy flinched, and the greatsword struck Fetohep’s palms and snapped.
The blade broke as Fetohep’s golden hands halted it in the air, and the Angel recoiled. Fetohep stumbled, but the other half of the greatsword landed at his feet. He was panting, chest rising and falling, but those golden eye-flames had grown again.
“That…I cannot allow. You may have me, but not one of my people, warrior of God.”
The outraged Angel gazed at the broken greatsword it held, then hurled the weapon down. It leapt at Fetohep and threw a punch. Fetohep blocked, went to counter, and received a blow across his jaw, a kick to his chest as the Angel backflipped and then came down in an axe-kick.
A martial artist as well as a swordsmaster. It lashed his body with blows, but the King of Khelt shielded his face and withstood the onslaught. The Revenant’s teeth were clenched, and his eyes…
His eyes were burning with outrage. He took one step forwards, then another, forcing the Angel backwards until they were clear of the Kheltians, and his hand lashed out once.
The Angel’s head spun, and it recoiled. It backed up, all but unharmed thanks to its Skill, but the blow had still disconcerted it. Fetohep was panting, but he was studying it now.
“I was wrong. I thought you were a warrior worth respecting. Newborn as thou art. But if you do not understand—then listen to me, beast. You are a peerless warrior, but you do not understand honor. Though you are faster than I, stronger, more skillful—you did not earn your might. You fight like my servant, Lanodest.”
The Angel didn’t understand that except, perhaps, that it was being insulted. But in the crowd, a single [Death Commander] started, and he saw the King of Khelt lower his fists. Take up a brawler’s stance. Fetohep turned his head. His eyes met Anleth’s. The boy remembered something. A question Fetohep had answered.
What level was I? Level 50. [Warrior].
I never used my capstone Skills—not once in six hundred years. Because they were not one mighty Skill. Because they were humble. But they were still his.
The King of Khelt drew back a fist as the Angel attacked, screaming like the hymnals of Heaven, and he spoke the first of his Level 50 Skills. He punched, and the Angel ducked the fist, a boxer with divine grace. Fetohep said—
“[He Struck].”
His left hand crossed the Angel’s jaw in a hook that sent the glowing being’s head snapping up. It fluttered back a step, recoiling, and Anleth waited. But Fetohep just set himself, fists raised, and the Angel tilted its head—then leapt at him in a flying kick.
That was it? That was—
The kick knocked Fetohep back a step, bones rattling, but he spoke.
“[He Attacked Back].”
His momentum reversed. He was propelling himself forwards and punched downwards, snapping the Angel’s body down for a second, but like Fetohep, it was resilient and just hopped backwards. Anleth stared at Fetohep as the King of Khelt adjusted his tattered robes.
Those were his great Skills? The boy didn’t know what to think until the Angel danced around it, and this time, Fetohep blocked one punch, ate a spinning elbow—
Headbutted the Angel so hard it stopped. Then followed it up with an uppercut that lifted the Angel’s feet off the ground, and it was flying back. Confused now.
“[He Attacked Back]. [He Struck]. Does thou see?”
He spoke to Anleth and the Angel, and neither one did for a moment. The Angel circled Fetohep. He had struck it four times, each time too fast for a counter. It dropped in an axe-kick, halted in midair, swept around into a roundhouse kick. Fetohep blocked it, letting the blow carry him sideways.
Reappeared in a flurry of dust, and the Angel barely blocked the punch that sent it stumbling backwards.
[He Attacked Back].
Then the Kheltians began to understand. The King of Khelt beckoned as the Angel hesitated. It hit him, and he hit it back so fast it didn’t have time to react. He threw a punch, a regular punch, and it dodged that. His second blow hit it in the liver. Fetohep threw a headbutt—and [He Struck], a kick to the kneecaps. He blocked a punch and countered, a dropping elbow.
The Angel became a flurry of punches and kicks, but as it sped up, so did the King of Khelt. He replied to each blow, even if he missed or it was blocked. Like a spinning top, refusing to let a single blow go unanswered.
Unkingly. Skills not fit for a monarch who could not be seen to brawl. Much less a Revenant whose fragile body could not recover from the damage it took. A warrior’s Skills.
The [Relentless, Unyielding, Stubborn Son of Khelt]. The Angel stopped its assault and came to a stumbling halt.
What was going on? It had been winning! Fetohep’s blows were being halved by the Angel’s Skill, but…he kept attacking. Without the greatsword, each punch and blow struck the King of Khelt’s very soul—but it refused to yield, like his stubborn body. He was coming at the Angel, now, as it backed up.
“So long as a single citizen of Khelt is in danger, I shall not falter. Khelta, give me the strength to continue, take my body when I fall, and lead me gently into the sands—”
His voice. He was chanting as he came at it, a warrior’s oath that had not been spoken for centuries. The Angel hesitated as the Badger of Khelt rushed forwards, ignoring the blows striking his body.
For…his words almost sounded like a prayer.
He advanced, and now the Angel was backing up. But the King of Khelt was on it, and he spoke.
“[He Struck]. [Hammer Blow]. [He Attacked, He Attacked, He Attacked, He Attacked]—”
His third Skill. Nothing but an onslaught of punches and elbows and blows that pounded the Angel’s body. Sixteen blows knocking the glowing figure around without giving it time to react. When it managed a single, glancing hit to his chin, Fetohep grabbed its head and slammed it into the ground. He reached down, and now it was calling out in alarm.
The glow to eradicate undead shone on Fetohep’s body, but the wrath of the King of Khelt’s aura shielded him. He ignored the Prophet of God shouting out condemnation, the People of God’s prayers.
They were locked together like lovers, striking each other and wrestling, the Angel trying to back up, and Fetohep’s hands finally found what he had been reaching for. The King of Khelt seized the Angel’s left wing with both hands.
Four Skills. He spoke the last one almost with regret.
“[He Ripped It Asunder].”
The King of Khelt ripped the wings off the Angel, and it screamed. Blue blood ran into the ground as he stood, gazing down at the Angel, and the Prophet cried out in horror. The King of Khelt’s flaming eyes regarded the wounded being that rose. Now, his voice was quiet. Even gentle.
“Warrior summoned for vengeance. I am many things. King. Tyrant of my little realm. Fool. And slaughterer of other nations’ children. I beg you, do not add to my sins. Yield. I came here to die, not to kill a child.”
Now he saw it fully. A warrior without equal. A messenger from God.
A—
Child. The Angel hesitated and glanced over its shoulder, once. Then it shrieked like a chorus of the damned and leapt at him, hands going for his throat, trying to twist his head off his body. The King of Khelt seized the Angel’s neck, and they wrestled, both trying to find purchase. He spoke, a breathless sigh.
“So be it.”
He ripped the Angel’s head off its body and watched the divine being swing as he stepped aside. Then fall, and he saw the glowing body fade and vanish, motes of light disappearing in the fading light.
He knelt there, head bowed, too weak and weary to rise. Ashamed to be the victor. But he did raise his head, for he was needed.
“I’m sorry. I shall make amends.”
When King Fetohep stood, he heard the Prophet of God weeping.
 
——
 
The second Angel was bleeding from five dozen wounds as the Named-rank adventurers circled it. Frieke’s right arm was hanging limp, and Alked had lost half a foot, but they closed in like sharks circling carrion. The Angel was stumbling when it heard the first die. Frieke leapt forwards, going for another blow, and it stabbed her through the belly.
Impaled her on the ground as Konska screamed and attacked it. Ignoring the bird, it leapt at Alked, and they were fighting as he tried to use his bow, the only other weapon present that could harm it.
Pewerthe was running for Frieke as the Dullahan woman shouted for her to get away. But Alked—the Named-rank Adventurer was gritting his teeth as the Angel yanked his bow down. It reached up and put a finger through one of his eyes, but he kept hold of the Arc of Heavens. The Angel reached for his other eye with bloody fingers as he gritted his teeth—
And a skeleton stabbed it in the side. Alked and the Angel jerked, and the Angel flapped one wing open, sending the skeleton stumbling backwards. It glowed, a brilliant light to reduce the undead to ash, like the greatest Angel had…and the skeleton stumbled, then stabbed the Angel in the back again.
Huh? The blade actually kissed Alked’s stomach, and the Angel let go of him, swung around with the breaking glass sound it made, and struck the skeleton in the face, barehanded.
The skeleton’s head snapped back—failed to go flying—and it headbutted the Angel. The Angel staggered, stared at the skeleton, and backed up slowly.
Possibly, it had never met a skeleton made out of metal before. Pewerthe, trying to yank the spear out of Frieke’s stomach, turned. She had never seen a skeleton made out of metal before. Oh, she had seen the guardians in the palace with metal-plated bones. But never a skeleton with…nails sticking out of its metal-coated body.
It was covered in nails. Blue blood was running from a hole in the Angel’s head as it felt at a hole gashed open by the skeleton’s headbutt. It began to fly back, warily, when a second skeleton leapt on its back. It turned, smashed the skeleton into pieces, and then stared.
The glass skeleton was reassembling itself in the air so fast it was already reaching for the Angel as it flitted back. And the third one—
Well, the third one just had a pot on its head. Pewerthe stared at the familiar, oversized pot.
Her pot. The same one she’d hurled at the Angel. It had missed, and it must have landed and exploded amongst…
The skeleton dust. Now, more were striding forwards. Skeletons unfazed by the Angel’s light. Eyes glowing with a strange flame that seemed to have an inner and outer ring.
Skeletons made out of Kheltian death magic, bones, the contents of her pot, and…faith.
The Angel backed away from the skeletons in horror. Injuries it could handle. The death of its kin was shocking. But this? A fourth skeleton with a smoldering flame contained inside its ribcage had snuck around the Angel’s back. One of the staring eyes on the Angel’s back saw it, and the Angel spun. Pewerthe ducked—
The Blast Skeleton exploded. Alked, blood running from one eye socket, saw the Angel flying upwards as more empowered skeletons surrounded Pewerthe and Frieke. He fired an arrow into the Angel’s back.
One last shot as it tried to get to the People of God, now screaming at it to return. The Angel flinched, but it had endured ten of his arrows. This last one detonated, and the Angel—
Froze?
The Arrow of Stasis slowed the Angel for just three seconds until it burst out of the magical effects. It recovered, glanced down at Alked and its spear, then shook its head. Took wing and ran straight into the waiting skeletal hand.
“Hello, intruder. The Vizir Hecrelunn would like to share Khelt’s spell of the day with you.”
A smoking, cracked skull lifted the Angel’s suddenly panicked head up as crimson eye-lights narrowed. Hecrelunn spoke.
“[Disintegration Ray].”
His fingers fired the spell into the Angel’s face, repeatedly, until something gave, and he dropped the remains of the head, glowing flesh dissolving as the body fell to earth. Then, Hecrelunn nodded down to Alked Fellbow. He turned, and the Prophet of God saw his final Angel kneeling.
 
——
 
Pawn had lost part of his mandibles and an antenna. He sure hoped they could regrow. He spoke as he saw the cracked Angel’s body raising a shaking sword.
“Ow.”
The Painted Antinium surrounded the downed Angel, many scarred by its flaming sword. It was trying to rise, but Rabbitears, Pie, Purple Smile were forming a ring around it. The Angel darted forwards at Pawn, sword raised—
Pie intercepted it. Took the charge head-on as the blade that could cut undead asunder with ease struck his chest. He grunted.
“Ow. [Divine Cross].”
An uppercut and hook, so fast the Angel couldn’t dodge either blow. It faltered as Pie punched, and it tried to swing through him—
Failed as the Painted Worker threw it back. Not with overwhelming faith nor Skills. Just—strength. Pawn rubbed at one shoulder.
“It’s not that strong.”
Fast, masterful, able to fly and use the powers of faith. But not as tough as Painted Antinium. Though this was the weakest of them. Pawn was advancing when he heard the third Angel die, and a scream of horror arose from the People of God. Then the second—and a silence fell. Pawn’s neck cracked as he turned his head.
“Did Fetohep just solo that super-Angel by himself?”
“[I think so.]”
Purple Smile signed back, and Pawn scratched at his head. A piece of his carapace came off. He flicked it to the ground, muzzily, and raised his voice.
“Then why the hell did he need us?”
The people of Khelt were cheering. Cheering nonstop for their [King], who, as it turned out, might have numerous failings as a ruler. But in arrogance, style, and the ability to throw hands?
The peerless King of Khelt. Pawn stared down at the Angel and heard a voice.
“Don’t. Please. Don’t—”
It sounded like a man’s faith breaking. Harvey gazed upon the last of the Angels he had summoned to bring divine retribution on Khelt, and Pawn wondered if he could summon them again. Surely…but would they be the same ones?
“This is no summoned being. They think. Even if this is the smallest one, you have created something new, Harvey. Or perhaps brought it from Heaven, if yours exists. You have brought Angels to this world, do you see? And you have gotten them killed.”
The Prophet of God was standing there, hands outstretched for the Angel, which looked to him. Pawn lifted the club, and Marrieh spoke.
“Please, have mercy. We will take it away with us. It is made in our image.”
Her eyes were wide, and Pie spat; he was dribbling blood from his mouth.
“Hey, Seventh Voice, are you over there, you traitor? Some religion! When they’re strong, there’s no mercy, and now they ask for it! Pawn, let’s kill this thing, then hit them all until their brains come out of their toes.”
Pawn regarded Harvey as an Antinium Soldier standing with the People of God raised his hands. He saw Fetohep of Khelt striding his way followed by a wave of people, and the Vizir was descending. Pawn exhaled.
“Harvey, you are the dumbest man of faith I have ever met. And I look in a mirror every day, so this is quite amazing to me. You could have done so much good. Instead, your people are dead, your Angels are dead, and you will be hunted across Chandrar.”
The man said nothing as he stood there. Pawn lifted his club.
“Run, Prophet. Run, and just—think upon what is right and wrong. Because I really don’t think God wanted this. Or if he did, he works in mysterious ways. Or his Angels just suck at fighting.”
He stepped backwards, and the Angel leapt back. The Painted Antinium turned to him, incredulous. Pie raised a throwing pie, but Purple Smile held out an arm.
“Let them go.”
“Pawn! They just tried to murder us—”
“Someone has to stop attacking back. We’ll never kill them all, and even if that was an option I liked…I want to believe we’re on the same side. Run, People of God!”
Pawn barked, and the Angel looked at the Prophet. The man stood there. His eyes gazed past Pawn. And then to the Worker.
“Thank you.”
The Worker made no reply. He just stood there as the Prophet called out, and Marrieh shouted and ran towards some of the People of God. She flickered out of existence, and then Harvey was running with the wailing People of God. Pawn just watched. What a damn waste.
He only spoke once as a shadow flitted past him, and a hand rose, the wrath of Khelt in Hecrelunn’s eyes.
“Vizir, do you think you have the mana to waste?”
Vizir Hecrelunn paused and then turned his head down.
“Do you think you will survive my unadulterated wrath, Antinium?”
The [Priest] just hooked his club to his belt and rasped.
“Me? No. The armies? I’m not keen on finding out.”
Hecrelunn hesitated, then swept his gaze right, left, and up. He muttered a curse.
“The rats sweep in in moments of weakness.”
“Yeah. This one was just the first. And misguided.”
Pawn sat down on the ground as Fetohep of Khelt approached him, and then all the people of Khelt stood with him. The Worker did not get up, so the King of Khelt sat beside him. Fetohep appeared worse for wear, body torn, robes ashambles.
He had triumphed over the divine, but the King of Khelt just sat there a moment as Pewerthe approached with Trey, and Pawn stared out across the horizon.
“King Fetohep of Khelt, I wished to say this to your face.”
He turned his head. Met the golden gaze.
“Thank you for all you did for Erin and the inn. We are in your debt.”
“I consider those debts paid to the Painted Antinium. Khelt is in yours.”
The King of Khelt’s voice shook with exhaustion. Guilt and fear. Pawn shook his head.
“The thing about being in Erin’s inn is that I have learned not to count debts so highly. One can never repay them, and they grow. Fetohep…I have protected Khelt as best I can with my little strength. I fear I shall not be able to best the next foe. Nor do I think I wish to try.”
“I understand. Thank you, Pawn of the Antinium. What comes next—is Khelt’s responsibility. I shall face it.”
The King of Khelt sat there, despite his words, as Pawn nodded and laid on his back shell like a downed beetle, staring up at the sky. After a while, Pewerthe spoke.
An undead [King] sat in tattered robes, knees hunched up to his chest, as he watched the sand blowing across his kingdom. Sand and dust, as if to erase the cities and people. The sun was setting. A girl sat with him, and they had an audience of a nation. Her voice was timid, small, and he wished he had great words for her. But there was only this.
“Your Majesty?”
“Yes, Pewerthe?”
“An army is nearly upon Khelt’s borders.”
“Hmm. Whom?”
He asked ‘whom’, not ‘who’, for even now, there was such a thing as good diction. She paused.
“The Empire of Sands. The Vizir has gone to forestall them.”
“I see. I shall speak to the Empress of Sands directly.”
“It’s the Emperor, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep paused.
“I see. Regardless.”
Then she took a breath, and her voice trembled.
“And…there’s another army coming from the north, Your Majesty. Medain’s.”
“Mm. Any others?”
“[Mercenaries], Your Majesty. Coming in different groups. At least twenty-six famous units. And…”
He nodded and rose. Then he turned to her and embraced her, one-armed. The King of Khelt walked forwards.
“I shall handle it, Pewerthe.”
The lie of all parents and rulers upon his tongue, he adjusted his robes and began to walk. The wind blew across his lands, and the King of Khelt watched the long myth of Eternal Khelt ending.
Gently, quietly, he dictated how it should be, and this was right.
He could not leave that to anyone else.
 
——
 
The first army to reach Khelt was the one that had been waiting here all along for the opportunity to advance.
They bore flags unfamiliar to the people of this part of Chandrar. Strings over waving lines to indicate sands, like a knotted ball of yarn unsettlingly woven together. Like the stripes of a vast desert in confusion. Meaningless and random. No heraldry of a nation like the Walled Cities, or the triumphant crown rising from decay that was the Blighted Kingdom.
The Empire of Sands had sent three armies against the King of Destruction, and each one had barely penetrated Reim’s borders. They had been forced to raid from the Great Desert, enduring thirst and privation—a fool’s move.
If Reim was their goal. But the Empress of Sands had another goal in mind, and when the army reached Reim, it was headed by General Khal, one of her most loyal subordinates, if not the highest-level or most strategically genius.
He did not have to be. General Khal had prepared his army in a completely insane pattern to any conventional foe. He had drawn his vanguard up in a single mass, then organized every other unit, from archers to riders, into squads of a hundred. At his orders, they would scatter to the winds and raid.
Any conventional force would wrap them up, but as he had been told and now believed…they just had to reach a city. They might be under attack from overwhelming, low-level undead, but the instant one group reached civilians, they would have hostages. However, he had also been told it would likely not come to that.
The King of Khelt spoke to the Emperor of Sands as the army reached his borders and halted, facing a legion of skeletons. And it was the [Emperor] who spoke. Not the cunning, pun-loving Empress he had expected.
“King of Khelt. My army stands upon your doorstep. It has bled to reach you.”
The Emperor of Sands was completely transformed from the reclining woman with charm and wit. He stood, shorter but far more compact, muscled and armored from head to toe, pacing, blunt of speech.
How could even a Stitch-person transform so? Fetohep was weary, but he almost appreciated the lack of honeyed words. This would be hard.
“It does, Emperor of Sands. Did you not swear Khelt would be left untouched?”
“One head did. I did not. By Skills, I am unaffected.”
“What of the weight of crowns and the word of one sovereign to another?”
“Hah!”
A bark of a laugh, then the Emperor of Sands put a hand on the hilt of his sword and spun as he tensed up. Fury. His eyes flashed.
“My men have bled to reach you. Your flying Revenant has assailed them with spells. But now they are poised to strike back at Khelt. I will have a blood-price for every fallen soldier. And their withdrawal. In return, my armies won’t ravage Khelt. I have contracts. They’ve been sent.”
He waved a hand offscreen at hooded and veiled servants, and the King of Khelt read from a flashing [Message] scroll. He lowered it.
“This sum is beyond extravagant.”
He would have raged and threatened annihilation last year. Today? The Emperor of Sands’ eyes flashed.
“I have a war to win. Khelt can afford it. Do you force me, I will take it, and you can ill-afford that. Pay my price, King of Khelt. The same [King] who has ignored my people and every people begging for an ounce of Khelt’s generosity is in no place to haggle now. You stand between empires. Reim’s and mine. Your word or my man storms Khelt.”
Fetohep sat on his throne, and he had just beaten the Prophet of God. Torn an Angel’s head from its body. Demonstrated the weight of the King of Khelt’s fists to the world.
In private, he bowed his head.
“Allow me a day to review the terms of your contract and ensure there is no…tricky language contained within, Emperor of Sands.”
The youth barked a laugh.
“A day? I will not have my army wait for the King of Destruction to pounce for a day.”
Fetohep’s eyes flashed.
“Then pull them back, and I shall sign the contract without a sword bared at my throat. I know that even should I cross you, the counterblow will be twice as heavy and without mercy. Take my word, Emperor of Sands. I assure you, it is good as our coin you covet.”
The Emperor of Sands seemed ready to push the issue as he half-unsheathed his sword, but then he paused. There was a whisper—from above? The sides? Fetohep did not know, but his skin wanted to crawl, dead as it was. Slowly, the Emperor of Sands glanced up, then nodded.
“A day. Transfer of the payment…the damn Merchant’s Guild only deals in coin, and I won’t have it raided. I’ll contact you with solutions.”
He paused, lifted a finger, and frowned as if recalling something.
“One more thing. This is the kinder option. It would be easy to crack Khelt open like a box and loot it, but you’re too far. Driving your people out to die in the sands is pointless; there are Stitch-folk within your lands as well as any other. My empire doesn’t need Kheltian blood, just our share of the spoils. The rest come for your throat. My nation may well treat with yours if it pays well enough. Remember that, King of Khelt, however indecorous this head is. It is the only one that leads in war.”
He grinned, then, a boy-king with the untrained, wild charisma of a born [General]. Rueful and endearing if you could but love him. Fetohep saw a frightening face, one born for war, and he knew another head was born for diplomacy.
The faces of the Emperor of Sands, whose diverse abilities could match any Ruler of Khelt that had lived. Then the Emperor of Sands grimaced and sat back on his throne.
“So, then, are we foes?”
“I do not exactly wish for more foes at this moment, Emperor of Sands. Your terms are agreed to.”
Fetohep replied quietly, unsure of why the Emperor asked. The young man fidgeted, then stood.
“Good. Communicate that to the obnoxious [Princess] harassing my diplomats. She’s threatening to call in debts and making a nuisance. She is not that important.”
His eyes flashed with a hint of admiration, annoyance, and then he spun, walking offscreen.
“I’m sure you’re busy. Until next we speak.”
He cut the connection, and the King of Khelt sat there. In a way, the Emperor of Sands was refreshing, for all he lacked any graces and his nature changed. There was little personal in Khelt beyond what it had.
He had no stake in Khelt’s fate.
 
——
 
Medain, on the other hand—was slower by hours, but the High King drove them through the night to be first to attack Khelt now that its defences were down. To him, it was entirely personal. He felt betrayed, insulted. He had been stepped upon, and now it was time for vengeance.
That was half of why Perric drove his army at such speed towards Khelt. The other reason was that he knew every other nation would be lining up to loot Khelt. Being first to take the capital was risky, but the lion’s share of the wealth would be carried away in the initial sackings, and Khelt was rich enough to make it worth any single army’s cost. Too, he wanted to be there before Raelt had a chance to strike him.
It was a risky maneuver, but he’d already been preparing a punitive strike on Khelt before seeing how weak they were. After that? Perric had thrown caution to the winds to organize this gambit. All the risk, all the reward.
True, it took some doing to put together an army that fast. Medain was a mighty nation of three kingdoms, but it had suffered in the last war…with Khelt. Jecrass’ damn raids had done more damage of late than they should. However, where there was a will, there was a way.
Perric had drawn his heavy cavalry and his Golden Ranks from his capital, then pulled a core of his heavy infantry and marched them south. For the bulk of his army?
He’d just…emptied a few border forts. True, it left only skeleton crews manning the essential fortifications guarding against Jecrass, but King Raelt wouldn’t know that. Perric had ordered illusions and dummies set up to trick the idiot. He’d be back before the King of Duels even realized the troops were missing, a fortune to end the war in hand.
“When we get into the capital, I want discipline. No looting of the palace. Any man or woman stealing from the King’s share will be put to death, even the Golden Ranks! The rest of the city is yours.”
He was giving orders from horseback as his [Generals] sweated and prepared battle plans. They were less happy about attacking Khelt. The trauma of the Jaws and knowledge that there were still a lot of skeletons, mindless or not, made them nervous. But Perric had not risen to his rank by being cautious.
“I want the King of Khelt’s head mounted on a plaque or something. Mind you, take this ‘Heir of Khelt’ alive. Do you hear that, you loot rats? March, and I’ll hand out Relic-class items to those who distinguish themselves in battle!”
She wasn’t that attractive, but there was a prestige in including her in his harem. The last Ruler of Khelt, and it might help if he took the entire kingdom. The Golden Ranks marching ahead of Perric shouted acknowledgement. They understood how much they stood to gain, the former Gold-rank adventurers.
They loved nothing more than fighting low-level enemies, and what was a horde of skeletons but fodder to a Level 30+ adventurer? Perric only wished he had his damn High Crown! He could have wasted any number of skeletons with its magic.
I’ll be wearing Khelt’s crown if I can get it restyled, and I like the effects, soon enough. And I’ll have the Diamond Swords of Serept and whatever else is in there. Dead gods, I might actually gift my current crown to Ceria. She’ll come crawling back when she sees Medain’s wealth.
With it, he could take the Claiven Earth, and then he’d be a nation that every other power in Chandrar would be forced to confront. They just had to get into Khelt and—
They were nearing the borders, and one of the [Generals] shouted.
“Your Majesty! Skeletons ahead!”
“Prepare to sweep them clean! Heavy cavalry, forwards! Golden Ranks—ready! Today, we destroy an ancient kingdom!”
Perric roared, and there was a cheer from his soldiers. They were thirsting for vengeance, but the cheer faltered when they saw the sea of undead. He gritted his teeth, remembering the half-Giants of Serept.
They’re not here. Remember that. Khelt has one super-spellcaster and that damn ship, and both are damaged.
He had an army. Even if it bled—he glanced at the heavy cavalry, then his vanguard. Throw them in first, then commit his Golden Ranks. He didn’t like to bleed his best troops, but he’d throw it all away to take the capital. Perric was about to call the charge when a single figure stepped out from the motionless sea of skeletons. He choked, the Battle Horn of Medain raised to his lips, and King Fetohep of Khelt walked forwards.
The Army of Medain backed up a step. Men, women, horses—King Perric’s bodyguards shuffled back as he felt his butthole clench in instinctive fear.
He’s weak. 
“What are you doing? Formation!”
He hissed at the [Generals], who restored order, but they had all seen the King of Khelt ripping the Angel’s head off hours ago. Perric saw the silent [King] raise his head, and golden eye-flames lit up the darkness.
“King Perric of Medain. I do not think you have come for pleasantries. It is well; I am in little mood for such talk. It seems to me that we should speak frankly, having never done so before. I must say, in honesty, I do not care for you. You are an unseemly king, and I have resented our close contact via [Message] spells and the like. I shall not have your army upon Khelt’s sands. Name your price and turn back.”
High King Perric bared his teeth as the [King] stood there. Pathetic. Half a year ago, he had been dancing on the Jaws of Zeikhal, sending the world to trembling, and now here he was. Perric called back.
“Now you call for candor, Fetohep? It seems to me I have my boot on your neck. When I place it there in actuality, you may grovel and beg. Long have you taken advantage of our weakness! Turnabout is fair play, wouldn’t you say?”
He would repay that embarrassment and humiliation tenfold. Actually, he definitely needed to keep Fetohep alive. A talking head mounted on the wall. Genius! No one had ever conceived of such horrific punishment. Perric was grinning as Fetohep exhaled purely for the sound of it.
“High King, you misunderstand me. And you continue to do so. Never once did I ask Medain to tribute so much wealth, nor the statues, parades, the endless abasement to Khelt. I would have respected backbone. I did not even seek to push, but found you flipping over backwards of your own accord. Let me state that I regret how Medain treated itself, but I did not press for it.”
Perric reddened in fury. He glared around as no one dared meet his eyes; if they did, they would have been next to be publicly hanged in the capital. But then he calmed himself. His bearded face smoothed, and he ran a hand through his beard and shook his head.
Pityingly at this undead king who knew so little of ruling. Perric called back.
“It’s you who doesn’t understand what it means to rule, Fetohep. You know what? I pity you. Did Medain grovel beneath Khelt when we were disadvantaged? Of course. Is there any shame in it? No. We did what we had to in order to survive.”
He thumped his chest, eyes glaring at that undead ruler. Perric jabbed a finger as he leaned over his restless warhorse’s saddle.
“That’s how the real world works. That’s how real politics works, not this illusion Khelt’s enjoyed because of all its treasures and undead. Some men have to work their way up from the bottom, even if it means showing one’s belly. Anything to live. I was born a mere [Prince], not the heir to paradise.”
He clenched his fist, shaking it at the King of Khelt, as his subjects gazed upon the self-made man who faced down the King of Khelt. Fetohep watched him, and Perric spat onto the sands.
“Every man acts the same when the boot is on his neck and the same when he is the one holding the sword. The fact that you pretend otherwise just shows how far from humanity you’ve come.”
At last, the silent Revenant bowed his head, breaking his gaze away from Perric’s face.
“I fear you may be right, Perric of Medain. So, then, by your logic, you will not be bought.”
“Why would I compromise for pittances when I could take it all?”
Perric spread his arms, laughing as his Golden Ranks chuckled. Fetohep tilted his head.
“A fair question. Perhaps you might settle for less if only because I will kill you before you take one step inside my palace, High King Perric. I swear that to you, ruler to ruler. My hand be at your throat, and it shall rip your spine from your flesh. No force in this world shall stop me. What say you to that?”
The oath made Perric ride back a pace instinctively, and his [Bodyguards] shivered. The Golden Ranks stopped chuckling, and every person between Perric and Fetohep suddenly began to question how much their life was worth.
A Level 50+ [Warrior] could not take on an army and live. He would die. But he was already dead, and that was not the question, anyways. The question was: when would he stop?
Perric lowered his voice as he triggered a [Silence] spell embedded into his glove.
“[Captain of Bows], do you have a shot? [High Magi]?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. We’re ready—”
“Fire.”
“Your Majesty—?”
“Destroy him with everything!”
Perric shouted, and there was a breath of uncertainty before the first arrow streaked across the ground and struck King Fetohep in the chest. He didn’t even dodge, but his golden eye-flames flared bright a second before a volley of homing arrows followed the first. Then [Fireballs] struck him and the undead behind him, comets and lightning and—
“Golden Ranks, loose!”
They were dropping to one knee, loosing enchanted arrows, and Perric was tensed, ready to ride behind his [Generals] and activate contingency spells. He waited for the Revenant to come tearing out of the firestorm, but even a Level 50+ [Warrior], even he—
When the smoke cleared, Perric felt his shoulders ease. Because there was nothing left where the King of Khelt stood. The skeletons behind him had been cleared for a thousand paces. There was a breath—then a wild cheering from his army. Perric raised his hand.
“The King of Khelt is dead! Now, adv—”
He choked on his tongue as a figure rose from the sands. King Fetohep of Khelt possessed another body whose eyes flickered and took on that golden glow. A corpse he could remotely use to fight with and fool his enemies. Just like how he had tricked Medain and the Knights of Terandria once before.
King Perric had forgotten he could do that. The King of Khelt brushed at the copy of his robes, then spoke.
“Weaker as this vessel is, it will fight you all the way to my capital. Thence, I shall step off my throne, and you shall see if your army’s might can stop me, Perric. Turn back or die. Khelt may perish if your army invades: this I understand. But so shall you. Or shall we do it in the oldest way of [Kings]?”
He pointed at Perric, and the man felt a shock run down his spine.
“I challenge you to single combat, High King of Medain. They say you are a great warrior yourself. Let us see who triumphs.”
He had to think Perric was mad. Fight a Revenant in single combat? Perric laughed. He threw back his head and guffawed, expecting others to join in, but no one did. His Golden Ranks, his [Generals], were all eying him as if they hoped…Perric snarled.
“I won’t fall for any tricks, Fetohep. Men, prepare to charge!”
He lifted a hand, and his army hesitated, but Perric was ready.
If he comes at me, I’ll just ensure I have an escape route planned. He can’t catch me if I teleport out. Perric had two more armies moving along Khelt’s borders. If he had two attack in multiple waves—
King Fetohep’s eyes were flickering.
“You would damn this entire army to death instead of taking wealth? Truly, Perric?”
“It seems you don’t know me at all, Fetohep. Perspective. It is the final lesson of kings you taught me.”
“I didn’t teach you—”
Fetohep stopped, then shook his head.
“Alas.”
A fitting note to end it all on. Perric was pointing, lifting his horn, when someone blew a horn in the distance. He lowered the Battle Horn of Medain, irritated.
If this is not my backup army, I’ll kill everything and everyone. He turned his head, then tightened his grip on the hilt of his sword.
“General Miltif? Take half the cavalry and make ready to sweep our flanks. Archers, turn. I want a line of pikes there—”
He saw the furry figures loping across the ground, moving behind the skeletons, then heard the drumming of damn hooves. Incredulously, the High King watched as Gnolls and Centaurs joined the army behind Fetohep.
It was hard to say who was more upset, Perric or Fetohep. The King of Khelt spun.
“Herdmistress, this is not your war!”
She probably didn’t even hear him. The People of Zair were galloping across the earth, raising a dust storm behind them and whooping, Gnolls forming packs of bows and spears in clusters. Perric ground his teeth together.
He’d heard the Centaurs were hard to fight. As for the Gnolls, he was sure they’d crumble before a cavalry charge—it just looked bad to be seen slaughtering them.
Amnesty for the survivors. Give them some land in Khelt, and that’d solve it. He saw a spiral of Centaurs galloping around the Herdmistress and grunted.
“You have your work cut out for you if they’re half as decent at mounted combat as I’ve heard, Miltif.”
“Aye, Your Majesty. Perhaps we should wait for the second and third armies?”
Miltif was licking his lips as he forced a smile, but Perric could count. He flicked his fingers dismissively.
“We’ll bleed more to rout them, but we have the battle. Now…”
He saw there were Kheltians in the army facing him as well as the undead. A few hundred skeletons had popped up on his left flank. He produced an enchanted spyglass with two lenses instead of one—called ‘binoculars’ by Wistram—and frowned.
“Commander or something over there. Mark for sniping.”
The King of Khelt turned, and his eye-flames dimmed with sorrow, but then burned with pride. Perric shook his head pityingly. Such a pathetic king after all.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest stood behind his personal skeletons. He was pale-faced, knowing how outmatched their army was, but like the Gnolls and Centaurs, he had come to the front. He had dissuaded Farmer Colovt and other Kheltians from joining what would be a slaughter.
With the Gnolls and Centaurs, we might hold them. If there are any Arrows of Razzimir and the skeletons can hold them back and keep them from overrunning the border…
…They’d still be overwhelmed and crushed by the Golden Ranks and Perric’s heavy infantry. But they had to fight.
The King of Khelt was gazing at Lanodest, and the Death Commander remembered how he had let Fetohep down. But all the Revenant did was raise his hand and clasp it to his chest in a warrior’s salute.
The High King of Medain was advancing. He didn’t fear the Gnolls howling or the thrumming of Centaurs stomping on the ground. When he saw the Painted Antinium, he just rolled his eyes.
“I’m going to poop myself in terror.”
Pie announced, and Pawn counted.
“We won’t fight to the death. Just…try to hit King Perric with a [Poison Pie] or something, would you?”
They were tired, and their faith was almost exhausted, but if they could use [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky] once…Pie stared at his hands.
“I don’t have that Skill yet. I might get it when I level. Yellow Splatters, knock me out.”
The Painted Soldier didn’t turn around. He was glancing about. Alked Fellbow and Frieke were standing with the Painted Antinium. Alked had a replacement eye and foot on, and Frieke had a bandage on her stomach as Konska screamed. It was the Stitch-man Named-rank adventurer who stopped Perric again.
“Your Majesty of Medain! I will not fight you here.”
“Smart man! I have room in my kingdom for you, Fellbow!”
Perric roared back. Alked offered him a wolf’s grin.
“With respect, I will come calling, High King! Not today or any day you look for me. But if you take Khelt, then when you are napping, speaking at a banquet, dining in a closed room, my arrow will find you. Take Khelt and die. An archer’s word on it.”
That was a threat to chill the High King of Medain, but he only hesitated for a step, then called out.
“For that, Fellbow, you’ll be hunted like a dog. A shame. Frieke, my falcon! Turn your sword back to your homeland and I’ll forgive all slights, eh?”
She shouted back after a pause.
“It’s Frieke of Khelt, King Perric! If Alked doesn’t snipe you first, Konska will have your balls for lunch and any Golden Rank who thinks they’re a match for a Named-rank adventurer!”
Konska eyed Frieke and cawed to say, ‘don’t make me eat that’. The growl from Perric was enraged, now. So many damn pests!
“If anyone else would like to line up to be slaughtered in Khelt’s defense, make yourselves known! I don’t have all day!”
He roared, and that felt like as good a time as any. So, Trey Atwood spoke.
“Your Majesty. A word?”
 
——
 
A young man’s voice echoed from behind Perric, and he whirled, visions of assassins in his mind. His [Generals] leapt back. Where—?
His war table? Perric strode over to it and saw the neat lines of his battle plans laid out. Figurines marking his plans for attack and defense, maps, and his favorite new tool—
The little Sand Golems that Courier Seve-Alrelious had traded him. They were normally lined up until he wanted them to simulate a battle. But one had stepped out of place, and it was looking at him—
“Your battle might not go how you envision it. A word of advice?”
Trey Atwood in miniature smiled up at King Perric’s horrified face a moment before the High King punched the Sand Golem into paste. Then another Sand Golem spoke.
“You won’t take Khelt. The King of Jecrass is already aware of your army’s locations and numbers and where they’re not. You left your eastern borders undefended for this push. If you turn, you might head off the worst of the damage n—”
Perric loosed a [Fireball] point blank into the war table, and one of the [Generals] shouted as the splinters struck his face. The High King roared.
“Tell Admiral Nalteic to counter the King of Jecrass’ raid! I want the war plans remade!”
“Your Majesty, if Jecrass knows where we are, they could attack us as we advance into Khelt! I strongly suggest we fall back and—”
General Miltif’s head snapped back as Perric backhanded him. Internally, Perric’s blood was running cold. My forts. They’re all but empty. If that damn boy had told Raelt that—
Stay the course. They were committed now, and it was too late. The High King roared around at his officers.
“This battle will put Medain on the map as a world power! Retreat? I’ll sacrifice every army of Medain if I have to! Begin the charge!”
No matter how many little tricks Khelt had, it did not an army make! Perric knew war, and he knew he was right. It just so happened that someone else agreed with him. His [Generals] were begging the High King to reconsider when one of his [Bodyguards] tapped Perric on the shoulder.
“Your Majesty. The Quarass has a message for you.”
“Not now! You will charge or I will have you all put to d—”
Then the soft, too-calm tones from one of his dedicated [Bodyguards] sent an utter chill down Perric’s spine. He spun, and his sword left its sheath, but the [Bodyguard] was already leaping over the heads of the alarmed soldiers.
“Assassin! Assassins! Protect His Majesty!”
Perric saw the remaining bodyguards try to close ranks, but he swung his sword at them, forcing them away.
“Back! Back—where’s the damn message? Did he touch anything?”
Was it contact poison? In the air? Perric spun, and his eyes followed the leaping [Assassin]. The traitor was running away from Khelt’s borders. Towards a cresting dune that led towards one of the neighboring kingdoms. Reim and, northeast, Germina…
The sands at the top of the dune rippled as the fake [Bodyguard] sprinted across the ground, and Perric saw the ground stand up. A figure shed the sand and cloth hiding them in a small plume of dust, and then a hundred more stood with the tiny Quarass of Germina. Then a thousand. Then—
The Quarass of Germina and four thousand of her clothed warriors armed with poisoned blades, blowing darts, throwing daggers, and the like appeared in flanking position to Medain’s army. A fraction of King Perric’s fielded forces, but poised to hit him from an oblique angle.
The Quarass spoke as King Perric’s personal speaking stone keyed to his palace vibrated, and when he lifted the stone, her childish, cold voice was in his ear.
“High King, it would be wise of you to withdraw.”
He forced a smile as his spine prickled.
“Quarass! You seem to think you have the drop on me. Four thousand of your light infantry wouldn’t even leave a dent in my vanguard.”
He swept a hand, indicating his heavily armed infantry—who did not seem particularly brave or motivated to go up against the most poisonous nation in the entire world. The Quarass’ voice was light.
“Twice you have been marked for death should you invade. Thrice may suffice if it comes from my own mouth. Turn back.”
“You must be mad. Khelt has guarded its riches from Germina as well as every other nation! Listen to me, Quarass. Join with me and I’ll split the treasures of Khelt with you!”
Perric blustered, growing incensed now. Why was she defending Khelt? The Quarass paused, and her reply was pained.
“Khelt’s hour has come when its debts shall be paid, King Perric. Even the wisdom of Ger’s long years cannot halt that. But you mistake me. I am the Quarass of Germina. Even if Khelt is not so old as the Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar, I will not see it end tonight. Turn back. Or you will die, your children will die, and your loved ones will die in their safe houses.”
For a few seconds, High King Perric actually considered doing what she suggested. Then he shook himself.
“When Medain has its treasures, I will offer you a trade, Quarass. Amicable peace or war that will ruin Germina. Everyone bluffs at this game of cards, and I am tired of the bluffs. Withdraw or I’ll trample your forces.”
A longer pause, then her voice replied slowly.
“I am beginning to see how King Fetohep of Khelt had such troubles with you. And how rock may beat every other combination thrown at it through sheer obstinacy. General Miltif? You have a wife. I would stab myself were I you. I will take you off this field either way.”
Perric spun.
“Miltif, don’t you dare. Miltif? She’s bluffing. Put down the dagger, man. Put it down—”
The Quarass might have been bluffing, but she took one of his [Generals] off the field since the man might be compromised. High King Perric took over Miltif’s command himself, telling his [Commander of the Charge] to change targets. Hit the Quarass, loop around to engage the Gnolls, and he’d support the engagement against the Centaurs with archers.
The battle plan was far more complicated as Perric weighed every angle, but his army still had the numbers, still had the levels, and he saw the King of Khelt watching him.
My hand ripping out your—
Perric shivered. His head rose, and his entire army was half-turned, waiting for his words. He rasped as he licked his lips.
“Alright. Upon my signal, begin the attack. Would anyone else like to interrupt? Sand at Sea? The Vizir? I’m prepared for them.”
He made a show of casting about, and his Golden Ranks shuffled their feet, but then one of them raised their enchanted blades and began to drum on the golden shields he’d armed them with.
Rattattat. Rattatattattat! The others drummed on their shields too, and the High King’s spine straightened. He took a breath and drew the Battle of Horn of Medain. He waited a beat and then blew it.
A clarion call to arms. A note of war. The High King drew his sword.
“Now the wolf takes Khelt’s throat! Golden Ranks, forwards!”
He thought he heard the King of Khelt, Quarass of Germina, and Priest Pawn sigh as one. But then the cavalry was beginning to thunder forwards, and the terrified shouts of his soldiers became a roar as their feet thrummed over the ground. Perric’s heart was in his throat, but he rode forwards.
Nothing to stop him from his dreams. Not Germina, not Fetohep, not Antinium! He heard a desperate scream from the side.
“Your Majesty! The Arbiter Queen is riding down on us with three thousand horse from the rear!”
High King Perric didn’t even turn his head. His eyes were locked on Fetohep’s as the Revenant lifted a replacement halberd. The King of Medain was shouting now, as the broken green moon and blue moons shone down overhead. A glittering night sky filled with distant stars and the falling sword.
A figure plummeted to earth before the running Golden Ranks, and his sword touched the ground. High King Perric saw, just for a second, grey hair, pink, electric eyes, and a familiar face that had once etched itself on his memory.
The Hero of Zethe swung his sword down and cleaved the ground in half. A rift tore past the Golden Ranks, and they stumbled. The first rank of [Soldiers] cried out and tried to slow, and the second rank slammed into their backs. They pitched into the chasm he had cut, scrabbling at the edges as their friends halted.
Doubte of Zethe swung his sword, and the winds blew. He turned, straightening, and held his sword out. The army of Medain stopped.
One [Hero] stood between them and the astonished King of Khelt. In the sudden, complete silence, he spoke with a weary voice that cut through all sounds. As he had done a thousand times before.
“Medain. I am Doubte, the man you knew as the Hero of Zethe. This land is under my protection. Advance and die.”
They waited as he lowered his sword and rested, favoring his right foot. Doubte stood there, eyes fixed on High King Perric’s face. He said nothing more, and the High King rubbed at his eyes.
Lifted a hand and spoke, at last, plaintively.
“Oh…come now. Couldn’t you have had a private word before I moved my armies?”
 
——
 
The Hero of Zethe stood in front of the armies of Medain, and it was Medain who fell back. Not for Germina, the Antinium, or any other—only the hero who had held the King of Destruction himself at bay time and again.
Fetohep didn’t know what to think. He had prepared himself to die charging at the King of Medain if need be, but…
The Quarass, Jecrass, the Antinium, the Gnolls. Each people were ones whom Khelt had helped, however small. And Doubte?
Fetohep remembered the [Hero] riding silently aboard Sand at Sea as they travelled to the Meeting of Tribes. It was he who owed the [Hero] a favor, and yet because they had shared that moment, Doubte had come in Khelt’s hour of need.
He should have been overjoyed, but instead, Fetohep was just ashamed.
If only I had given out Khelt’s generosity before. How many allies might now stand with us than this handful if I had been charitable but a tenth of my long reign?
He bowed before Doubte as the [Hero] finished wiping his sword with a cloth.
“Your Majesty. I apologize for my delay.”
“You arrived exactly when needed, Doubte. To you, the Quarass, and so many others, I express my gratitude.”
Doubte shifted, and rather than acknowledge the thanks, he just grunted and jerked his head at the departing army.
“The King of Medain will be back. He’s not the sort to keep long. You need someone he respects. Not that I can or will fight. I prefer to be dead. But I have…children. Restless children, and if Hraace cannot teach them—my wife deserves more than our little home, you see. There’s a village.”
He stumbled over his words, grimacing, and Fetohep realized the man was leaping to a conclusion, making the offer as if he could not stand to dance around the topic even a second. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I will grant you and any you desire citizenship if it lends you to lift a blade even once in Khelt’s name, Doubte. My word on it. But Khelt is not safe.”
Doubte shrugged.
“Is anywhere? I won’t swing my sword in Khelt’s name. Only defend the part of it that matters to me. If that suits…”
He trailed off, and Fetohep nodded.
“It does. You have earned that without even this, Doubte.”
The [Hero] half-glanced at Fetohep, frowning, before he relaxed. Then he shook his head, almost wonderingly.
“…You’re genuine. You should be more demanding. They’ll all take from Khelt. Including her.”
He backed up fast as someone came running over the ground as fast as her little legs would carry her. The Quarass puffed.
“Doubte of Zethe! A word!”
“Goodbye.”
He sketched a bow, then leapt away. She cursed as she halted, and Fetohep of Khelt stood there.
“Quarass, you have my—”
“Fetohep of Khelt, be silent. I am wroth with the High King, with you, and with Chandrar.”
Her eyes flashed, and Fetohep continued.
“—gratitude. I fear, however, that Medain is only the first of the jackals at my door. I have [Mercenaries] coming.”
“And another army.”
She murmured, and he glanced at her. The Quarass sighed. She brushed at her hair and turned to him.
“Germina has fallen before and been knelt in ages past. Nor is this the first time I have seen sworn companions crumble, Fetohep. It shall not be the last. I shall tell you how it is done, but you must accept it is breaking. I did not know if you could, until now. I feared it would be the [Potter] who stood here, not you.”
He bowed his head again, deeper.
“It took pure despair to bring me so low. Now, I am merely grateful.”
Jecaina rode into their conversation as the Quarass nodded tightly. She threw herself off her horse.
“Fetohep! I came as soon as I could! Father is attacking Medain, the idiot! What happened to the Prophet? Sand at Sea was coming this way, but they left to confront another force. And—why am I next in line to rule Khelt?”
The Quarass’ mouth fell open. Her eyes bugged at Fetohep as she spun.
“You made her the next Heir?”
“That was Pewerthe.”
“What about me?”
The outraged girl demanded, and Jecaina cast around.
“Was that the Hero of Zethe I saw? He split the earth! Should we guard against Medain coming? Or is another group attacking?”
Fetohep almost smiled at the chaos. He saw Death Commander Lanodest, the Painted Antinium, Gnolls, and Centaurs were cheering and almost thought it was a party worthy of Erin Solstice. Almost…but he felt Doubte’s weariness in his bones. He saw the Quarass’ reserve, and a thought occurred to him.
“Hecrelunn isn’t here. I thought he might be attacking the [Mercenaries], but he would never let an ego larger than his go unchecked. And Sand at Sea should have easily beaten even Jecrass to arrive. Where are they?”
He turned, and the Quarass avoided his eyes as someone pushed through the milling people. Trey Atwood came to a halt as Fetohep glanced around, and the young [Sand Mage] spoke.
“King Fetohep of Khelt? May we retire to the capital for this? You have a guest awaiting you.”
Then Fetohep focused on his young friend, and he heard a horn call in the distance again. A distant sound, and he glanced at the Quarass, who would not meet his eyes. He exhaled, just once.
“Of course.”
 
——
 
The King of Destruction had brought a small army with him. Just Orthenon, Mars, and six thousand of Reim’s soldiers. Vizir Hecrelunn was floating across from them, aiming a finger down at Reim’s forces, and Sand at Sea had parked itself in front of Koirezune’s gates, but neither group wanted to fight. Orthenon was facing the undead ship, and Mars was blowing kisses at Hecrelunn. As for the soldiers, they were waiting in silence behind the King of Destruction. Calm. Far too calm.
A calculated amount of troops. Probably exactly what Flos needed to stomp High King Perric’s army into dust with Khelt’s forces if he had to. He was swearing as he leaned on the pommel of his saddle.
“The Hero of Zethe upstaged me? Damn the man! This was a perfect chance to take out Medain as well!”
He turned a rueful smile on Fetohep, and he didn’t make any pretense as to why he was here. The King of Destruction, the warlord of their era, just dismounted, and his face was sorrowful as he spread his arms.
“King Fetohep of Eternal Khelt, I greet thee, undying brother. I grieve, truly. Once, I dreamed of a war between Reim and Khelt. I did not desire the bloodshed, but in truth, I wondered even at the height of my kingdom how thunderous Khelt’s war might be. That dream will never become reality. But perhaps…I may offer some solace.”
“King of Reim, you come civilly for once. I take it you too desire Khelt’s donations?”
Flos recoiled and seemed actually hurt. He shook his mane of red-gold hair out as he turned.
“I would see this land protected, Fetohep. Trey told me what was going on. I offer you the same pact as before. Join my nation. If not as sovereign citizens, then true allies. Let there be enduring peace between us, and no nation shall strike yours.”
King Fetohep of Khelt eyed Orthenon and Mars, who stood civilly, even the Illusionist, somber and grieving for Khelt’s downfall. He believed they were genuine.
He could also envision Mars striding into his palace, cleaving apart all undead in her way. Flos’ face was open, genuine, and his soldiers were the finest in Chandrar.
A true conqueror had come to Khelt. Its [King] did not kneel or bow, because that would have upset the King of Destruction the most. As Fetohep had told Perric—dignity should be held by the defeated most of all.
So as not to upset the victor. Fetohep inclined his head a fraction of an inch.
“We shall drink to this, Flos Reimarch, and swear oaths upon our kingdoms as well as in deed. Khelt shall pay Reim its ransom that its people may live in peace. And perhaps—for [Cleaners].”
“Ah, the damn bugs. You live with them.”
Flos snapped his fingers, but he was finding it hard to jest. He stood there, almost awkwardly, until Fetohep gestured.
“Your forces shall, of course, leave my lands at once.”
Then he saw the King of Destruction’s shoulders relax. Flos whirled.
“Naturally. Of course. Mars, we have more damned Stitch-folk to defeat! Orthenon, stay here and effect whatever needs to be done. Politely. Your Majesty, I’ll pick up Trey later. I trust he was useful for once?”
He glanced at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] rolled his eyes.
“We could have used Orthenon when the Prophet was attacking us. You cut it close, Flos.”
The King of Destruction smirked just once.
“I wanted to see Fetohep fight. That man hadn’t a chance of taking Khelt if Fetohep stood alone against his entire mewling cult. King Fetohep. Er, Quarass. Arbiter Queen.”
He rode past them, streaming back the way he’d come. A legend leaving a kingdom of old myths. Fetohep watched him go as the Quarass rolled her eyes and stuck out her tongue at his back. It was Trey who remarked softly.
“You know what? I think that was the guiltiest he’s ever felt.”
The Quarass spat onto the ground at Flos’ back.
“If he took Khelt by blood and battle, he’d feel less upset. He feels like a thief, defeating one who put up no fight. So…then.”
Fetohep nodded.
“I shall prepare adequate tributes to the Empire of Sand, Reim, Germina, and other nations who might be able to press their…grievances. Suitably rich ones at regular dates.”
Not too much, but not too little. It would have to be a delicate dance. He saw the Quarass avert her eyes and realized, then, that the people of Koirezune had come out to see the King of Destruction. They’d heard him speaking, and they stood there.
Khelt was no longer the invincible paradise. Fetohep could meet no one’s eyes, so he gazed down and, in the doing so, found Anleth and the other children. He bent as the boy stood there.
“Your Majesty? Is Khelt going to be attacked?”
“I don’t know, Anleth. I hope not.”
Fetohep knelt down as the boy approached, and his people listened as he sat there on the sands. Wearily, the King of Khelt patted the sand, and the boy sat next to him.
“Will there be bugs, Your Majesty?”
“Yes, in all likelihood, Anleth.”
“And…and we’ll give away our riches.”
“Many of them, yes.”
“Will we have to have jobs?”
Fetohep’s head bowed further.
“I fear so, Anleth. This is not what I wished for Khelt. For all of you. It is my failings that have led us here. I am sorry.”
He peered around at the shocked faces of the Kheltians. Betrayal, sorrow, numbness. Trying to take in their breaking paradise. Fetohep rose to his feet gently. He placed one hand on Anleth’s shoulders.
“Khelt, Eternal Khelt, is not dead. Perhaps it is not even dying. I do not know. I do know we will be poorer, less safe. The world I know has shaken, and all is chaos, my people. I have let you down. But tomorrow…I shall sit on my throne and answer each grievance you have as best I am able, day and night. I swear to you this. I shall no longer pretend Khelt has no woes. Tomorrow will be hard. The days after perhaps harder. We must only greet them as they come. If you would flee Khelt for better lands, I ask you to wait. Or if you must go, let me send you with all I have left.”
He stood there and heard no one break into tears. No cries of remorse or terror. Just a soft sigh, then nothing at all. In the silence, the King of Khelt bowed deeply once and caught his crown before it slipped from his head. Then he walked up the long steps to his palace.
For he had work to do.
 
——
 
[Priest of Wrath and Sky Level 44!]
[Skill – Blessing of the Painted Antinium’s Colors Obtained!]
[Miracle Ascended: Summon Workers (Holy) → Summon Heaven’s Guardians!]
[Title – Defender of the Helpless Granted!]
[Title Reward – Shield of the Lamb Assigned!]
 
[Class Change: Potter of Secrets → Potmaker of Buried Truths!]
[Potmaker of Buried Truths Level 47!]
[Skill – Create Pothead Skeletons Obtained!]
[Skill – Pots: Contain Faith Obtained!]
[Skill – Beloved by Insects Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Pot of Secrets → Pot of Conspiracies Obtained!]
 
[Class Change: First Disciple of the Prophet → Warrior-Priestess of God’s Cloth!]
[Warrior-Priestess of God’s Cloth Level 43!]
[Skill – Weave Blessed Fabrics Obtained!]
[Miracle – Mass Prayer of Magic’s Denial Obtained!]
[Skill – Like a Lion, She Leapt Obtained!]
 
Levels in the night. There were many who levelled, but three of those who woke, Pawn, Pewerthe, and Marrieh, did so with newfound Skills ringing in their ears. New powers, rediscovered abilities.
Things this world had never yet seen, but longed for. Each one had a different reaction to their powers.
 
——
 
Pawn sat up, heart leaping for the powers to give the new Painted Folk a piece of what made the Painted Antinium themselves. Soul sinking because Heaven was a place of rest.
“Must we call them back from Heaven itself for our selfish wars?”
He sat there until he heard his heart reply.
They’d want to help.
So he abided.
 
——
 
Pewerthe just sighed in faint contentment. It had been an age since she had last levelled. And now…each one was needed.
“I will hit Level 50 before I die after all.”
She rolled over in her bed. Already envisioning new pots and plans. Pothead Skeletons? They’d have to look beautiful, naturally. Sturdy pots. Doubtless the better the pot, the better the skeleton.
This was necromancy she could get behind.
 
——
 
And Marrieh woke to tears in the camps where the lamentations of the People of God still filled the air. Schism. Some had fled, and others followed the Prophet, if not for him, then for the single Angel.
But she wept. For the world had given her what she had longed for.
Cloth to call her own. She did not care about the Miracle to terrify all of Wistram into soiling their robes or the Skill that had once been called a mark of true bravery, that only the bravest were given—
Only sat and dreamed of a new people made in cloth to honor a being that loved them equally.
 
——
 
Levels. For Yellow Splatters, Pie, Harvey, and so many more. But not for one being.
He was dead, and as of yet, no one had given Fetohep of Khelt the ability to continue his long journey after death.
It mattered not. He alone stayed awake after the battles were won.
Working.
The night was a blur of things. The Quarass and her people, Pewerthe, and as many officials, day-servants, and people of talent as he could summon.
Farmer Colovt was one of the most important people in Khelt, suddenly. As was an [Accountant] who began to tally costs in sums she had never dreamed of, face dead white.
But they moved. In time, the mortals had to rest, even the Quarass. Trey Atwood retired to his quarters; Pewerthe fell asleep at her desk she’d installed in the throne room and was covered by a blanket. Fetohep listened to her snoring as he got up and went for a walk.
One final meeting at dawn. He took it a few miles north of the border to Khelt, and a man nearly tumbled out of his saddle. He’d ridden hell-for-leather and insisted on tending to his horse before he spoke.
For that, Fetohep respected Captain Galbram. The [Mercenary] walked, embarrassed, glancing around, passing by a ramshackle inn that the Quarass of Germina had once put up to gain a class.
“Every major [Mercenary] company not on the other side of the continent’s going to be here in a few days, Your Majesty. Many that’re too small to be counted, anywhere from a few thousand to a few dozen. And lots that aren’t [Mercenaries] at all, but just wear the name. [Bandits] and groups of sellswords, you understand.”
“I see. Naturally, yours was one of the first to arrive, Captain.”
The man flushed again, but he didn’t glance away from Fetohep.
“No. Once I put the pieces together, and Captain Nava told me how she’d been fighting the People of God, I put the call out. I know almost every other commander who’s a big name. I know which ones can be trusted and which ones have filth in their ranks.”
“I see. So what would you propose, Captain?”
The man chewed on his lip, but he had been thinking, and he came out with it.
“Well, you’d start by paying each major company the same sum as mine.”
“Even though I am hiring your company, Captain?”
“Yes. Because even if you hire us, the other companies will know Khelt’s right there, and they’ll fight us like Demons of Rhir. There’s no way to stop them unless the King of Destruction wants to come back and smash through them. That’ll lower the price, but there’s plenty who’d be willing to risk becoming raiders and banned for life. Just for a taste of Kheltian gold. Pay them and most companies will dissolve. Plenty of [Mercenaries] will ask to be paid out and retire or go drinking and carousing until the gold runs out. You’ll throw them into chaos.”
“Ah, the man who has everything he wants. And yourself?”
Galbram shrugged self-consciously.
“I figure I’ll lose a lot of my people, but I’ll pick from the other companies in the chaos. Strike a deal with the other good [Captains]. Then my people will be motivated to catch the other groups coming in. Some might need incentives to leave, but you’ll have security. Not perfect, but they can even do some sweeping and elimination of bugs…so long as they have the run of the cities. They’ll obey the laws, but you’ll need peacekeepers.”
“Death Commander Lanodest may be ideally suited for that role. You have brought before me an offer I am ill-able to refuse, Captain Galbram.”
Fetohep could prevail on the Quarass, Flos, or even repulse Galbram and the mercenaries himself. Perhaps. But he had no soldiers. And Galbram was honest. He faced Fetohep, embarrassed, but nodded.
“You’ll have our swords as long as the coin’s good, Your Majesty. Being able to visit a paradise, even one that’s in—straits—is worth as much as the coin to buy it all. Do we have a deal?”
He was nervous, as if thinking Fetohep might pull off his head there and then, but the Ruler of Khelt smiled wearily. Like a man winnowed out from the inside yet who still found himself standing.
He lifted a finger and shook his head.
“Almost, Captain Galbram. But before I review these sums of which I must pay, in advance, I tell you this: I must have you lower your prices.”
Galbram’s head snapped up. He opened his mouth, defensive, and Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I am not accusing you of greed beyond any other man or woman, Galbram. I am simply telling you: lower your prices. Take less. Do not slaughter the magical calf so long as it gives milk.”
The [Captain]’s anger faded. He regarded Fetohep, then ducked his head.
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
He peered up and saw Fetohep offer him that same, pained smile.
“Thank you, Captain Galbram. You are indeed the man I should have hired. Now, if you will excuse me, I must rest a moment. Panic attacks. Visit me in the palace when you have settled matters among the mercenaries. The servants shall admit you.”
 
——
 
The day thereafter in Khelt was the kind of tremulous silence after a disaster. Frieke had known them, when tidal waves had rolled into Medain or a monster had attacked. Days when everything fell apart and nothing seemed normal.
She, of course, was better able to deal with it than most, and Konska rode on her shoulder as she wrote to Satar.
“…paying off most nations, and a [Mercenary Captain] has been hired by His Majesty to guard Khelt. For now, no raids, but I will keep you informed, Satar. Signed…Frieke.”
She was writing to Satar Silverfang openly now that Khelt’s woes had been made public. The [Historian] wanted to know everything and had expressed her condolences and whatever support the Meeting of Tribes could muster. And she’d begged Frieke to search up anything Khelt had on the Antinium. Probably a fan of Pawn.
Lots of Kheltians were listening to his Painted Folk today, and he was giving a sermon in the square. About how to clean up and why leftovers were a virtue.
Frieke, though, just paused as someone familiar caught her eye in the streets of Koirezune. She’d been watching how Kheltians acted. Many were in shock or trying to live normally, but some…the smart ones, the bastards, were cleverer than the rest.
For instance, she’d seen one woman gathering up utensils, pieces of art, everything she could grab and stuff into her bag of holding all morning. Anything that wasn’t claimed, things that normal Kheltians had no value for. She took it and squirreled it away, because now, suddenly, everything had a price tag.
Getting ahead when things got bad. In a way, Frieke approved. That was smart. It kept you alive. It was a very King Perric thing to do. When the boot was on your neck, everyone did what they had to.
On the other hand…she waved at Mistreq and saw him walking around, as if someone had clubbed him with one of the giant [Hammers of Faith]. She’d been impaled, but she was healing. She wondered where the Prophet of God had gone. She hoped he’d tripped and broken his neck, but life was never that fair.
“Hey, Mistreq. Are you doing okay?”
He came over hesitantly.
“Frieke. Didn’t you get stabbed through the stomach?”
She showed him her bandaged wound.
“I did, but the Antinium healed me part way. What are you doing?”
Mistreq had a bundle of sticks in one hand, some cloth, and a net in the other hand. He gestured at his tools.
“Well…burning bugs out of their nests.”
“No.”
She smiled despite herself. Mistreq nodded; he even had a hat with a net for his face. He’d made it himself and showed it to her.
“Someone has to do it now that the skeletons are…broken. I’ve been showing people how to do it, but most can’t handle the bugs. I don’t like it at all, but I hate them more. I gained the [Bug Remover] class the other day. I nearly got rid of it, but—I think someone needs to do it. Don’t they? That’s a valuable class, isn’t it?”
She thought about it as he stood there, forlorn, staring at the palace and around at his city.
“There’s plenty of bug-killers and exterminators in Medain. There’s a need for them everywhere. It’s not glamorous work, but yes. It’s an important job.”
“Good. Then…I suppose I’d better get to it.”
He nodded awkwardly at someone waiting for him to help eliminate some horrible bug-infestation. Frieke halted Mistreq.
“Hey, Mistreq, let’s get a drink later. After work.”
“After work.”
He said the words like they were foreign, and she smiled at him. He nodded and began trudging away. She called after him.
“You know, even with bugs, this is still the most beautiful city I’ve ever been in. The most fabulous kingdom. That might not change.”
He turned back once and half-smiled at her, but his eyes lingered on the palace. Mistreq pointed back at her.
“Yes. Yes, it is true. But once, you and I knew paradise. After that—anything is harder. But Khelt remains.”
He brushed at his eyes and glanced around, mystified.
“It remains.”
Frieke stood there as Konska cawed, and she nodded.
“Yeah.”
Then she went to find Pewerthe.
 
——-
 
Pewerthe the Potter, Heir of Khelt, was suddenly one of the most important women in Khelt. Everyone wanted to speak to her, and she feared she wouldn’t have time to pot anymore.
“It’s important, Fetohep. For my class.”
“Yes. Of course. You levelled, I trust?”
“Mhm. And those new undead I made seem to obey me. Especially the Pot Skeleton. We can supplement our forces with them if I can replicate the stunt. Shame the Painted Antinium can’t stay, but they will want to return home, they said. A few have asked to stay, but we could have used a thousand more. Maybe we can recruit specific groups. Mm, we’ll look at the upsides and downsides.”
They were having a conference in one of the sitting rooms, the first of many. Fetohep had taken a break that morning. Not to rest so much as breathe. In and out. Pewerthe was drinking coffee as she spoke.
Like Named-rank adventurers, she kept moving when the sky fell. She had a list of things to do and ran through them.
“We need to go through Captain Galbram’s background, but I suspect the Quarass has already. She might just give me a list of problems if I ask nicely, but she’s meeting with you shortly after this. I think that’s what I’ll handle today with Frieke as my bodyguard.”
“Is she well?”
“Mhm. She’s mostly healed. Alked’s the one who’s really upset. He says one of his magical eyes got damaged.”
“I shall find him a new one—”
Fetohep began, then sat back.
“—Assuming we can spare it.”
Pewerthe pursed her lips.
“We won’t be beggared overnight, Fetohep. Even with tributes, we have plenty of time. We just have to…spend what we have before it runs out. We might have as much as a decade before we need to, um, have other incomes. Less if we use it, and I suggest we use what we have.”
“I shall consult with…economic experts. I do not know whom. The Quarass, Lyonette. Yes, she wished to speak. I should thank her.”
Pewerthe nodded.
“Good. You need time to yourself in case you slumber. And, um, about what Anleth told me. We can do it! We just need to focus. Keep it quiet. He’s the only one who knows, and Fellbow and Frieke. We should tell a few, but not count on it.”
Hope amidst ruins. Fetohep was nodding as Pewerthe ran a finger down the page.
“What else? Oh, yes. I don’t think I want to be the Heir of Khelt anymore.”
She glanced up, and Fetohep paused.
“Ah. Of course. I have asked too much of you, Pewerthe. I shall find another once…”
“Not that.”
She casually put the paper down and clasped her hands together. Pewerthe met Fetohep’s gaze, and he paused.
“What, then?”
The [Potter] shrugged uncomfortably.
“I just don’t like it. Waiting to be needed. I did a bad job of waiting, and I clashed with you.”
“This time, I shall heed—”
“I don’t like ruling, Fetohep. I’m good at leading, but not taking full charge of it all. I’d rather not be the Heir, but someone needed now. And I think your government, which you need, could use me. As [Spymistress]. Or Magistrate of Spies or something.”
She flashed a smile at Fetohep, and his eye-flames flickered.
“Spymistress. You? But nations know you were the one who tricked them.”
“They might. But secrets can always be re-potted. And it’s what I do well. I’ll help you find a new Heir of Khelt, but I’d like the job either way.”
So saying, Pewerthe twirled a tiny pot on her finger. Fetohep stared at her, and then he did smile ruefully.
“I would be a fool to quibble. I suppose you need a budget. And Frieke among others?”
Pewerthe grinned as she flicked the pot’s tiny lid up and spoke into it.
“I am the Spymistress of Khelt.”
She snapped the lid shut, tucked it into her bag of holding, and nodded.
“Yep. But I’ll present my requirements later. For the moment, I think we should keep Queen Jecaina as the next Heir of Khelt. For a few reasons. Firstly, it strengthens her claim in Jecrass against her father if it becomes known. Second, she has an army and the motivation to help Khelt—more security. We don’t have to keep her as Heir. Another candidate might be the Quarass. It’d motivate her to help even more, but I think it’d give her a permanent claim on Khelt, so probably not.”
He listened as her eyes danced and she spoke, and Fetohep nodded along. In her, he saw hope. Just like the Vizir who flew off towards his kingdom without a word to Fetohep. Nor a request for thanks.
 
——
 
But he didn’t fly back right away. Instead, the [Vizir] cast an illusion spell and landed in the city he had helped found. Koirezune.
Unrecognized by all, he walked the streets, and the dream he had helped build with Khelta…Hecrelunn stumbled, and for a moment, he was no undead Revenant, but a sharp-chinned man with imperious, cunning purple eyes, a bit shorter than you might think, wearing high-heeled boots, always, eternally wearing a dissatisfied quirk to his lips.
—Stumbling and leaning against a stall of goods for ‘sale’. The sign said that the owner appreciated trades or compliments and, if you took one, to please write a note of thanks.
Closed forever. The precious gemstones, magical papers, glues and scraps of wood from around the world that the [Crafter of Delights] used to make his wares would no longer flow into the city without thought for the cost. Hecrelunn’s sun-dusked face was pale as he gazed about.
At trash littering the streets. Kheltians weeping or learning to steal and hoard. His chest rose and fell, and someone spoke.
“Sir? Sir? Are you well?”
“Leave me.”
Unlike Fetohep of Khelt, Hecrelunn had not forgotten his mortal features, and there was no one in this world to remember what he had looked like. He did not consider his current body his true self.
He had always been Khelta’s honorguard in whatever shape. And now—he raised trembling fingers, and someone called out.
“Is there a [Healer] about? I think this man is unwell. Panic attack.”
More Kheltians turned, and Mistreq saw Hecrelunn swipe at him with a snarl. The newly-made [Bug Remover] flinched. Some of the Kheltians who’d been approaching backed away when they saw the swipe.
“Another one? The [Healers] are beyond busy—I’ll try to find someone.”
“Is he violent? The officials…oh.”
A pause. As all recalled that the officials were likewise occupied with grave matters. Chasing down some of the People of God who’d remained in the borders. Restoring order. Needing to intercept thieves, foreigners, bandits.
The [Crafter of Delights] who owned the stall had returned, but he flinched back as Hecrelunn snarled around at them. He was a man with white hair, who had tear-tracks on his dust-covered face.
“Is this the way of things now? Will we be in fear of others beating us and stealing our things? Will we have to lock our doors, and will strangers come into our city whenever they please? This is the end of Khelt. We’ll be devoured by insects, murdered in our sleep, our daughters carried off…”
It was not entirely incorrect. Mistreq flinched, and Hecrelunn gazed ahead, wordless. But before the lamentations of the old man could grow louder, there was a brisk clip-clop of hooves, and someone spoke.
“Who’s having a panic attack? I will deal with it. And I will have no fearmongering! Not from you, elder. In these moments, you and I should be the ones who speak reassurance, not woe!”
Who—the old [Crafter of Delights] turned, and Herdmistress Geraeri trotted down the street. She limped a bit, grimacing.
“Ach, my bones. You there. Are you unwell, sir? I can take you to my camps.”
“Leave me be.”
Hecrelunn snarled at her, and she halted and eyed him. But she didn’t force the issue, instead addressing the other Kheltians.
“I am Herdmistress Geraeri. I have been to Koirezune seldom, but my People of Zair, we do live on the borders of Khelt and in New Jecrass. You may see more of us of late.”
“Herdmistress, greetings! I’m, uh, [Bug Remover] Mistreq. Formerly [Wine Enthusiast] and [Tour Guide]. Are you hurt? You fought bravely for Khelt.”
Mistreq introduced himself, and Geraeri rubbed at one foreleg.
“No, just old. But it seems I am going to work until the day I lie down for good. It is not entirely displeasing compared to the alternative. Having tasted not being needed—well, it is a small comfort in this moment. I wish to reassure you of the future as well as give frank, honest advice.”
More Kheltians drifted over. A pair of Gnolls, Anleth, Farmer Colovt, who was walking towards the palace with some of the New Jecrassians. Even the old [Hermit] Malam and six of his lions. Each one was shaken in their own way, and they represented Khelt, funnily enough.
The [Crafter of Delights] wore a bitter expression, as if the People of God’s deeds had poisoned his belief in the goodness of humanity. He swiped a hand at the Gnolls.
“This all came of helping foreigners. We were safe! We were happy. And now we’re all in danger. Don’t lie and say we will not be! I have heard of Roshal’s raid. How many nations will we pay, and how many people will come through the borders, harming us, stealing our wealth now the skeletons are weak? We should have never let them in!”
He turned to Mistreq and the other Kheltians. The [Bug Remover] hesitated, and the Gnolls, all three of them, halted. The two adults, Lessha and Qirrel, glanced at the other Kheltians’ faces. A little Gnoll girl ducked behind a stall, hiding.
“Some of our newcomers fought for His Majesty. Did Named-adventurer Frieke not save Heir Pewerthe?”
Mistreq remonstrated with the man, and the [Crafter] glared.
“Those who help Khelt, but what of those who owe us so much? We did not need to go to Izril. If we hadn’t—”
If His Majesty had not let us down. He might have gone on, but a hand fell on his shoulder, and the [Crafter of Delights] flinched.
“See? They’re already using force to—”
He thought it was the Centaurs or Gnolls who took umbrage with him, but instead, he turned, and the largest beak in the world pecked him on the shoulder. Ever-so-gently, such that not even the Kheltian man could really cry out in pain.
“For shame, Codafrey! Was it not you I heard exclaim in sorrow over the Gnolls that Belchan attacked? Did you not cheer His Majesty along with the rest of us? We are all afraid of danger and the future. But you should not say it as if it were other species who didn’t deserve Khelt’s kindness.”
“Oh, Chivi, I only meant—”
He gazed up, and the biggest Garuda that anyone had ever seen flapped her wings unhappily. She was nine feet tall with black-and-white plumage like a seagull, and even Geraeri seemed startled to meet one of Koirezune’s more notable residents.
“Half-Giantess. I didn’t think but to realize there were half-Giants in Khelt.”
She lowered her left forehoof and swept it across the ground. Chivi smiled, but unhappily. She’d lost feathers out of stress, and she nibbled at a stray one on her arm.
“I’m the only Garuda. One of three…but I’m just another daughter of Khelt. Will we really be hurt, Herdmistress? Don’t mind Codafrey.”
“I’m…I didn’t mean you shouldn’t be citizens. Just that our undead—”
The old man was ashamed, but Geraeri just nodded.
“It is true that trouble will come to Khelt. There will always be those who manage to get past His Majesty’s undead and the new guards. The undead are not gone, remember. Just weakened. The greatest threat would be visitors more than some bandit stealing across the borders. They may be duplicitous or violent, yes. Locking your doors and windows is something you must learn.”
Mistreq’s stomach hurt as the Kheltians sighed. After seeing Fetohep nearly slain, it was a blow, but not one that left them weeping. They were numb, but Geraeri raised her voice as she glanced at Lessha and Qirrel.
“However! Safety will not come from a locked door! It will come from knowing your neighbors’ faces—and that is something I think Kheltians know! If you see someone acting odd, telling others, intercepting trouble together is how you truly stay safe.”
“But what if they have a knife or hurt someone?”
Mistreq’s voice trembled, and Geraeri smiled at him.
“Then you must be brave, but I think most men and women might threaten a Kheltian alone. Not so against thirty. This is how it works, is it not?”
Lessha came forwards, nodding and baring her teeth.
“It is so. We Gnolls also hope to show our faces in the bigger cities more. To spread out, in fact, and not live so much by ourselves. We had thought to, but if we are to be a people of Khelt, we must not be so afraid to claim it. If we are welcome?”
She turned to Mistreq, and he nodded.
“Of course.”
Now Codafrey was embarrassed, but the disguised Hecrelunn rasped.
“Khelt has always welcomed every species. Do not dare presume Khelta intended anything less. From the last Halflings to the first Selphids and Stitch-folk—this was a haven for all those who she chose to love.”
He glowered at Lessha, who sniffed, then gave him a deep bow.
“As you say, sir.”
“But how will we…pay for things? I am told that is how it is done, and we do not have any coins. Will we be beggared? We do not have jobs, most of us. How will His Majesty collect…taxes?”
Codafrey was worried about the other practicalities of life, and Geraeri stepped closer to his stall as Anleth clutched his parents’ hands in worry. The Herdmistress studied Codafrey’s works.
“This is your craft, sir? I can name only three Centaurs with finer talents in my camps, though perhaps it’s the quality of materials. This, for instance.”
She held up a little necklace made out of a cut triangle of glass and two more that were spaced together with cunning bits of wire such that when the light caught one, the prismatic reflection of sunlight struck the other two and created a hypnotizing illusion in the air.
“That? Oh, it’s just a bit of glass and wire. Do you want it? Take it. I shan’t make more…I’ll be working at the farms, if I can handle hoeing dirt, or whatever is needed.”
The old [Crafter of Delights] barely glanced at it, but Geraeri dug in her pockets. She placed three gold coins on the table, then added eight more.
“I’d pay you this for such a trinket, glass or not, sir. I might ask to make it less fragile since I fear the wire might bend…but here is where you would charge me double and we’d haggle.”
Everyone eyed the gold coins as Lessha grinned, and Codafrey nudged the coins.
“Is that…a lot? It’s just plain gold, not a colorful coin.”
Geraeri laughed, but she did have to hide a bit of her dismay.
“To non-Kheltians, a gold coin is worth quite more. Crafter Codafrey, I am telling you that your work is worth more than swinging a hoe around untrained. Or is this not Koirezune?”
She went trotting down the street, and the other stalls were all filled with baubles to the Kheltians, but the Herdmistress scooped up a handful.
“These would fascinate any visitor—if they could afford the price of them! Khelt surely lacks for those willing to do common tasks, and such people may find themselves the most valuable in a sense.”
She gave Mistreq an approving glance, then turned. And her eyes found Anleth.
“But you have such interesting classes. Young boy, what level are you?”
He jumped.
“M-me? Only Level 13.”
Level 13 at his age? Even the other Kheltians were impressed, but Geraeri nodded.
“You are on par with any good apprentice around the world, child. Though [Gambler]…well, this is how Khelt must change. Do not forget, either, that New Jecrass exists.”
“Too right! And even if we lack for the, eh, bounties of Khelt, it’s been cursed fine so far! Everyone we’ve come across tells us we’ve been living in privation, but not having to worry about food nor safety was good enough for us! Enchanted wells, sewers, dead gods!”
A swarthy [Rancher] from New Jecrass pumped a fist, then jumped as the lions and Malam came forwards. The old [Hermit] appeared very disturbed.
“Will everyone have to work and help? I came because I feared my cats wouldn’t be able to live as they used to.”
Or me. No more purified water shipments nor steaks. The lions were glancing at each other with equal worry.
We’re going to actually have to hunt for our food? They didn’t know if they could handle it.
Fear and uncertainty. For all that some Kheltians were rising…Vizir Hecrelunn muttered as a Gnoll girl peered at Codafrey’s works.
“It shouldn’t have been like this. But it was always like this.”
“How so, sir?”
Chivi addressed Hecrelunn as a few eyes turned his way, and Mistreq wondered if the strange man was older than he seemed. The [Vizir] rasped as he glanced around and saw a huge, barrel-chested man eight feet tall and bursting with muscles standing with arms folded.
Such a colorful people. He whispered.
“But it was always this, wasn’t it? Khelt was never one people. She collected them like her damn pets. Put them into half-finished cities, and at the beginning, it was dangerous. Wild undead, foreigners. That was how Khelt was. It was not safe for children to run about unattended. A Wight might fly down and snatch one. But compared to other lands…they came here, beseeching her for succor, because of the dream.”
“When was this? Queen Xierca’s reign? Are you a half-Elf, sir? I heard there was trouble in other rulers’ dynasties, but—”
The confused half-Giant Garuda turned to the other Kheltians, and Hecrelunn’s eyes flashed red a moment.
“Khelta herself, you worthless peons!”
He shouted, and she flinched, his feet—
Didn’t leave the ground. He almost flew upwards and shed his illusions, but instead, caught himself and ended up standing on his tip-toes to glare up at her. Chivi hid behind Codafrey, and the old man waved a finger at Hecrelunn.
“Now, listen here, youngster. We may have lost our safety, but we Kheltians shan’t act like that. Behave or I’ll call for an official…I’ll lecture you myself! Who taught you to call people peons?”
Hecrelunn flushed, about to roar an insult back, when someone held up a card.
I’d pay for these wares too, Mister Codafrey. I’m sure if you showed them to other nations, people would pay for Couriers for some stuff. Or visit. I hope Khelt does okay. I’m sorry. I wish I could have done more, but I was afraid we’d mess things up. I’m glad Pawn was here.
“Huh? What’s that—”
They turned, and Mrsha was standing in front of the stall, faintly glowing, looking shy and worried. And ashamed. Anleth gasped.
“Mrsha!”
The semi-famous Gnoll girl stood there, head bowed, and a passing Antinium munching on a new Skill-pie halted.
“Oh, Mrsha. You’re here too? Hello. Why didn’t you make the Prophet’s head explode? The Wandering Inn has let me down.”
Pie and Rabbitears inadvertently dogpiled Mrsha, and her head drooped. She wrote on a notecard.
We wanted to do more, but Khelt is so far…and we sometimes make things worse. I’m sorry.
If The Wandering Inn had only done something more—maybe they could have sent Ishkr, Normen, or Valeterisa and a thousand acid jars…no one quite knew what to say to the guilty Gnoll girl, who was a friend of King Fetohep.
However, it was Vizir Hecrelunn who stiffly nodded to her. And then, after a moment, got onto his knees. To get on her level? He still spoke archly to her.
“Listen to me, oh child born of inferior nations and doomed to eternal mediocrity.”
One of her ears perked up, and Mrsha gave him a dubious look as Geraeri took a step back and glanced at Qirrel, who waved his arms over his head and made an ‘argh!’ face—covertly. She focused on Hecrelunn and recognized the voice as the [Vizir] went on.
“Eternal Khelt does not need aid. It had the Vizir Hecrelunn, who is superior to any other being in this modern world, and the King of Khelt, who, despite his flaws, is beyond all other rulers in compassion, if nothing else. By these qualities Khelt has endured. If it needed an overfed albino hamster, then it was doomed. Know this, and know that it was Khelta whose magic held back the anarchy of lawlessness and the pursuit of time until now!”
He stood and whirled around. Hecrelunn began striding away.
“Nor is Khelt doomed. It is merely the first Khelt of all. Remember that and know, enemies, those who would betray Khelt, that in its dark hour, there shall be a light, the pale glow of undeath’s shield.”
His feet floated off the ground, and they gasped. Then the [Vizir]’s head turned, and crimson lights burned in his skull’s face.
“The shadows cast by Khelt’s munificent goodness are long. In those shadows, the Vizir shall be waiting for Khelt’s foes.”
Mistreq’s jaw dropped, and he recoiled. There was a cry—but the [Vizir] was flying away. He gazed down once at his city, then flew higher until he vanished into the horizon.
And Khelt…
Continued.
 
——
 
It had, after all, known war. Its borders had been breached before. That was something that Fetohep himself forgot. He had lived through safe times. But Khelt had known greater empires than the King of Destruction’s and been forced to use its weapons.
True, it had never been so weak, but…Mrsha stood in the street, introducing herself to the awesome half-Giantess, and asking what the Kheltians would do.
Learn. Prepare. Change.
Khelt was not without allies, after all. A pink-eyed man watched from further down the street. Doubte of Zethe wondered if his children would like it here. It was fascinating enough for them. Then he couldn’t help it.
He looked away from the place in the horizon the Vizir Hecrelunn had been flying away. Or rather, appeared to be flying.
He really was a cunning man. But Doubte could tell when someone was under [Greater Invisibility], especially if they thought as loudly as Hecrelunn did.
The Revenant was still around. In fact, he seemed to be following someone. The eight-foot tall man with a huge chest and muscles—like a Grimalkin, only Human—had gone strolling away from the discussion in the street. He stepped down an alleyway as the invisible [Vizir] followed, as did Doubte.
Khelt really was a sight to behold. It had alleyways, in the sense that it had places between buildings to walk, but most were not alleyways and more like reasons to put a beautiful work of art there or install a public foot-bath with little fish that ate your dead skin off your feet.
Finding an actual alleyway was really damn hard—except if you went to the one off of Archmage’s Bauble row and past the House of Lights. In the shadows cast by the building filled with light magic which was a public eyesore, there was the Alleyway of Alleyways.
Someone had made it, oh, millenia ago when they realized Koirezune didn’t have an actual part of the city that low-down [Rogues] and such could congregate. Thus, an [Architect] had taken it upon themselves to build one.
Dirty brick cladding, permanent shadow spells that stretched long, and a sense of something skittering out of the corner of your eye. A permanently knocked-over bin of trash…it was actually one of the cleaner parts of the city even now because the [Architect] had installed permanent [Cleanse] spells here.
Most Kheltians hated it here, because it was gross and unsettling, but the huge…Human?—Half-Giant?—was beaming around the alleyway.
“It’s still here. I wondered if it might be. The Alleyway’s endured longer than that damn eyesore of a beacon.”
Vizir Hecrelunn appeared behind the strange Kheltian, eyes glowing crimson. Doubte stood well back, not visible but listening. Hecrelunn’s voice was a bit raspy and quite, quite annoyed.
“What eyesore? Don’t think to stroll off, traitor. I marked you the moment I saw you, Skill or not. Before you tell me where the others of your cowardly get are, you may indulge some nostalgia. Then: pain.”
The Human man turned, and his browned face burst into a smile. An unafraid one, despite Hecrelunn staring up at him. The ten-foot man rolled his shoulders. Then, fourteen feet high, he fondly rubbed at a wall.
Eighteen feet—and then the tip of his head poked over the top of the alley’s roofs before he squatted down. And then the half-Giant of Serept dropped his illusions and let the withered flesh of his body appear, and his eyes glowed.
“[Walk Among the Small]. Was it so obvious?”
“High-levels are. Did you come to see if you had failed Khelt entirely, traitor? You are not the champion. Where are Thuermenon and the others?”
The half-Giant rumbled, amused if slightly wary.
“I am Shamt-grazredon, Vizir, and we have met before. To your question: I do not know. I know where we intend to meet and where many of us go. I was not in Khelt when this Prophet of God struck; I only came here after our task was done, to see what had occurred. If Khelt were under siege, one more of us might have come to do what we could, but there were only three.”
“Three? There are twenty of you unless you incompetent half-Giants got yourselves killed since the Meeting of Tribes. You could have saved me the trouble of flying out here!”
Shamt was cool as he sat against one wall, resting a hand on a knee.
“Against that strange power? Doubtful, if Sand at Sea struggled. Serept gave us his own orders, Vizir.”
“Orders that trump protecting Khelt?”
“Yes.”
The simple answer enraged Hecrelunn, but Shamt interrupted. He had no fear of the [Vizir], it seemed.
“I did not think to see you kneel in this or any other age to anyone, Vizir. Was the child so important? I do not understand.”
The Vizir stiffened.
“I merely sank to her level.”
“Of course. Now, truly, should I honor her the same?”
Hecrelunn was silent a long while before speaking.
“It was rendered unto this Vizir by the King of Khelt that some…hope for Khelt remains. And that the soul of great Khelta was restored in part thanks to the actions of that child.”
“What?”
The half-Giant’s smile winked out, and he leaned forwards, eyes suddenly intent. But the Vizir sneered.
“If you wish to know, go begging to Fetohep. Suffice it to say that this Vizir rendered unto the Brat of Fates, or whatever her title is, sufficient recompense.”
“…Could Serept be there?”
Hecrelunn paused, then answered softly.
“He was not.”
The simple answer made Shamt’s head bow, but then he clenched his fist.
“The knowledge still means there might be salvation despite this disaster. I shall take it to the others, with answers.”
“Where are they?”
Hecrelunn barked, and the half-Giant smiled.
“Why, finding our kin. Protecting them. That was Serept’s last order to us.”
“The…half-Giants?”
A shake from the huge Revenant’s head, and Shamt corrected Hecrelunn.
“The tall. They are all but gone. The girl, the Garuda—I approached her, but she was not interested. And so be it! But the offer shall be made to every single one who walks this world. A final gathering of those who hold the sky on their shoulders. Do not reproach us this, Vizir. Serept was King of Khelt, but he was also a half-Giant. We knew you were here, and Sand at Sea.”
The Vizir’s crimson eyes were flickering, like he was deep in thought, as Doubte held his breath. Both had the same thought.
“The Nomads of the Sky are one of the largest groups of such beings in existence, which you hailed from. You…did the three of you approach them?”
Shamt smiled, ivory teeth in his withered flesh.
“We may have made the offer to them. Children, the young, all those who do not wish to fight this King of Destruction’s wars. They had nowhere else to go.”
“You took his people?”
“He was busy fighting in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and marching on Khelt. Besides, he trusts the Nomads of the Sky to defend themselves. Some objected to our offer and the others leaving. A shame Zamea was not there or it would have been a proper fight.”
Was he implying that three of Serept’s half-Giants had taken a bunch of half-Giants from Reim and fought the living? Where were they going? And who else was ‘tall’ enough for this mission?
“Perhaps we shall return. But first, we embark on a long journey for this age that may be the last.”
Hecrelunn snorted at Shamt’s words.
“It’s always the last age. Khelt shall endure. I will see to it. I have enough pieces and a kingdom to work with. It shall be protected, even if you traitors turn your backs. Do you hear that, new servant of Khelt? You shall exert yourself or we shall take you to task.”
His head turned, and Shamt’s head leaned out of the alleyway. Doubte froze, and Shamt grinned at him.
“A [Hero] is always good to have. Though they need be reminded they are not the only ones who fight like myths.”
“Indeed. I tire of shredding them whenever calamities occur and they pop up like weeds. So then.”
Hecrelunn stood there as Shamt rose to his feet. He was shrinking again, and the two disguised themselves and walked past Doubte, into Khelt. As the citizens stood, trying to plot a course for the future, Hecrelunn found a bewildered official standing there, trying to figure out what to do.
“You. You are now in charge of cleaning this district. You shall see it done or suffer. You. A broom. You—you will learn [Mana Familiar] in the month or suffer.”
He pointed to another woman, a [Mage], and Shamt chuckled as he walked past Hecrelunn. He calmly picked up a huge sack of seeds that Colovt and two men were trying to wrestle into a wagon with a skeleton’s help.
“I have a day, fellow citizens. Show me where to plough and I shall lay seeds deep. Do they still plant crops that sit thirty feet under the sand? Ah, but let us work.”
He offered their awestruck faces a guilty, nostalgic smile. They got to work, Centaurs, Gnolls, citizens, a little Gnoll girl who’d run off to bring a blind [Emperor] with opinions on how to organize a city efficiently
And Khelt…continued.
 
——
 
Sand at Sea, Kheltians tentatively cleaning the streets and learning lessons on the basics of living without skeletons, listening to Pawn as he preached. And a nation crumbling. Changing.
Was the throne broken or had it already broken? Could they endure? Fetohep took calls that morning, acceding, requesting. Moderating his language and accepting an interview slot.
He could not be a bending king, but nor could he claim strength where everyone knew it was nonexistent. He sat, breathing in and out, when he took one final call, not checking who it was, busy as he needed to be.
“Ah. Lyonette. I wished to thank you…yes. No. No, your aid was…yes. Pawn is healthy. Healing, as I understand it. Yes, I am sure he is able to speak—in the company of Pewerthe, my H—my [Potter]. Thank you. No…and yes, I am well. Mrsha? Hello. Khelt endures, as you can see, you miserable sandrat. I trust…yes, you were watching. Thank you.”
He sat on his throne as day-servants swept the throne room, speaking to someone on speaking stone rather than a projection. Perhaps they were too shy, or he was. Or perhaps…after a few more minutes of talking, Fetohep paused.
“Another call? I have to speak with Jaganismet and the Speaker of Trees in…a few minutes, of course.”
He waited for a beat, then heard a new voice crackle onto the speaking stone. Fetohep went still, just for a second, as a familiar young man spoke. A voice he had come to know better than most, playful and somber, but trying to yuck it up.
“Hey, Fetohep. So, I was checking the news, and I saw you on it. Uh…how’s things?”
“Kevin?”
The King of Khelt sat there upon his throne, and his mouth hung open. The young man spoke, voice too bright and loud. Like someone holding back a sob.
“You really punched out an Angel, Your Majesty. I mean, dude, that was the most hardcore biblical smackdown I’ve ever seen, and I’ve watched evangelist pro-wrestling. Or maybe that was a movie I watched once. A dream? Um…funny story. You know the [Palace of Fates] thing?”
“I…yes. Yes.”
The golden flames in Fetohep’s eye sockets brightened. He sat back on his throne, and for a second, he relaxed. Then something occurred to Fetohep, and the flames dimmed. He sat up and cleared his throat, breaking into Kevin’s complicated story about future realities, magical syphilis, and Fightipilota.
“Kevin, one thing. I am overjoyed you are well. But while I have you, on the matter of Solar Cycles. I shall have to cancel all my outstanding orders. I’m…embarassed.”
He lowered his voice, glancing around the throne room, and sat there hunched over. Kevin paused for a long second, and then his voice was calm gentle.
“Hey, man, no worries. I’ll let Gergia know, and we’ll sort it out and get you that refund. Don’t be embarrassed, dude. It happens to everyone.”
Fetohep sat up slightly. He peered at the speaking stone.
“It does? Ah, so it does. Thank you, Kevin. Now, tell me about your experience of being dead. It has not been entirely unpleasant, until recently, but you may beg to differ.”
He sat back and listened for a while.

Interlude - Spears and Stuff (2026-03-14)

This was just a moment in time after the showdown between Archmage Valeterisa, Archmage Amerys, and Lord Mireden.
A day when the city on the Floodplains celebrated its [Spearmaster].
 
——
 
It was the custom of Spearmaster Lulv of Manus, after any new [Spearmaster] was granted the title or class, to make inquiries about them. He had all the power and reach of Manus behind him; aside from no-name Drake cities in the middle of nowhere or the Gnoll tribes, there probably was not a [Spearmaster] in Izril’s south he could not name.
The Gnoll kept tabs on all promising [Spearmasters], but when one was said to have advanced to the right level—Level 40 or especially Level 50—he would do everything in his power to arrange a meeting, or at least a conversation with said [Spearmaster].
In Relc’s case, it was highly unlikely that Lulv would be faced with a warm welcome in Liscor, even if he could be spared. Plus, Archmage Valeterisa’s presence meant Lulv couldn’t just storm in and sort out the consequences afterwards.
So he sent [Messages] and paced around the inner keep until even Dragonspeaker Luciva summoned him for being disruptive.
First Rafaema became a recluse and now Lulv. What were they, children in boot camp? She had the distinct impression the Gnoll was remembering the same thing as he stood to attention before her desk.
“Lulv. Just what has you so anxious about the Gecko?”
Luciva didn’t know everything about Lulv. He was a work colleague, and his own class’ intricacies were listed, but everyone had secrets, even in Manus. Lulv growled as he whirled his new spear distractedly. It left an arc of electricity in the air that made her scales tingle and would make your fur stand on end if you were a Gnoll—except for Lulv, obviously, so everyone hated it but him.
He’d had a bad few months. First he lost his Adamantium spear. Then he had failed to protect Rafaema, had to deal with an obstreperous old Dragonlord—he usually didn’t complain, but this was a lot of shit assignments, even for him.
“I just want to know what that trick was. What that…class he got was.”
“Lulv, relax. You outlevel him. Even if he’s a dual-classed [Watch Sergeant]/[Spearmaster]. If you two had a rematch, I’m sure it’d go down differently.”
This was the wrong thing to say. Lulv bristled.
“He caught me off-guard once and drew me into a brawl at the Meeting of Tribes. I’ve levelled since then.”
“Yes, yes. And you’ll be first to Level 50 since you’re active and he’s not.”
Unless fighting one of the King of Destruction’s Seven every few months counterlevels you more than serving in the army. Luciva coughed a bit of static onto her fist, and Lulv’s glower deepened. A knock at the door spared Luciva from having to try to boost morale further. Lulv snatched the [Message] addressed to him and read.
The truth of Spearmaster Lulv’s discomfort was not a great secret. It was just that Luciva, as a [General], didn’t quite…understand what a [Spearmaster] was. She often conflated the class with the title of ‘Spearmaster’ that was awarded to those who held the rank. And it often overlapped, but if you knew the path that Lulv and Relc and many others walked, you would understand Lulv’s anxieties.
Maybe if you wrote it down it’d make sense. Consider Relc’s latest levelup. Consider…formatting.
Relc Grasstongue, the Gecko of Liscor. [Spearmaster: The Spear of Silence].
Lulv Manushir, Spearmaster-General of Manus. [Spearmaster of the Wolf].
It was the colon. Or rather, lack of it. They both had a ‘the’ in their classes, but one sounded different than the other. It mattered, and Lulv knew it. He tore up the missive as Luciva waited patiently. She glared at the confetti on her carpet.
“A bad reply, Lulv?”
“Grr. Some claptrap from—who wrote this? Archmage Valeterisa? It’s like she’s high on Dreamleaf.”
“Oh, that’s her ‘automatic reply mode’ or some such. We get it all the time when she’s not paying attention.”
The Gnoll paced back and forth across the carpet as Luciva wondered if it was time for a brunch break.
“Lulv, I’m aware there are variations in the [Spearmaster] class. I’ve seen you tear a company apart. Where’s this anxiety coming from?”
“I don’t know what he did! I keep replaying the scrying orb, but I don’t know what he cut! It’s like that bastard from Pomle.”
“…Salii?”
“Xil! Greatest [Spearmaster] of our lifetimes! I met him once, you know. When he was younger. He came to Izril to kick the tails off everyone, and then he flew back to Chandrar to ‘retire’. [Peerless Spearmaster].”
“Sounds like he didn’t have a class much different from yours.”
Lulv growled louder.
“He lied. I know he was a spear of something. I wrote him letters—only one in ten even reached Pomle! He kept telling me that if ‘I didn’t know, I didn’t know’. It’s something, and that idiot found it first!”
He stabbed a claw at the orb that Luciva had which she’d paused on replaying whatever Relc had done to the waters. Luciva exhaled.
“Ah. This is like [Swordmasters], isn’t it? Cutting the unseen. Crossing the blade’s horizon…”
She’d read all the manuals that Manus’ [Swordmasters] had left behind, of course. More than one above Level 50 had left instructions on how to become truly skilled with the blade. But it turned into weird theory and philosophy after a certain point. Lulv threw himself into a chair, glaring at Relc. The Gnoll grumbled.
“It’s nothing fancy. They’re just trying to teach you how to cut something beyond what your Skills can reach. All the bad poetry, all the analogies just mean that. But how did he do it?”
Lulv had been on this particular quest for over ten years. Small wonder Relc had rattled him. The same class they might be, but the Gecko had set foot onto a path that Lulv couldn’t see. Understanding this, Luciva coughed into one fist.
“Level 50 doesn’t require one to cut through reality in a special way, Lulv. Take it from me. Keep searching, by all means, but if you wear a hole through the floor or keep upsetting the orderlies, I am going to order you to take it out on the practice courts. A private practice court.”
He jerked to grudging attention and nodded. She sighed as he stood. Luciva didn’t often have to deal with people in this context. She gave orders and consulted with [Generals]. Wiping their butts for them was not in her skillset.
From the way Lulv stalked off, spear in hand, she bet they’d have several practice dummies that would need replacing soon. She leaned back in her chair when he was gone. Her eyes flicked to the Gecko of Liscor taking potshots at the Calm Flower of the Battlefield.
“We should make a better offer on recruiting him, even if the chances are low.”
After a second, Luciva winced as she heard Lulv kick a wall down the hallway.
Damn Gnoll ears.
 
——
 
One of the keys to achieving what Relc had, finding the path of true mastery that Xil and so many others had walked, the same road that Zeladona herself would have recognized in him, was simple:
Grace. It was easy to take a step onto that road by accident. Once you were there, you would find it easier to come back again and again. Forgetting that feeling or what you’d done…impossible.
If you knew what to look for, you could do it again with practice. It was that first step from the mundane to the wondrous that was so impossible. Forcing it made it far, far harder.
Lulv knew that. But the knowing of it just made his task harder. There was such a thing as knowing too much versus someone who just lived and thought about a lesson he’d once received and saw it in everything he did. Like fishing.
Really, if Relc had gotten Lulv’s letter and taken pity on the Gnoll [Spearmaster], his best advice might have been for Lulv to get a hobby for himself. If he’d been really philosophical, he might have told Lulv that the route forwards wasn’t a straight line, but finding the path through many things that seemed unrelated, that the step into true mastery was only unearthed by being a more complete person who revealed the truth of the spear through all they did and saw that was not wielding the spear.
However, he only had that thought after waking up in the middle of the night, and he was so distracted and sleepy that he forgot it while going to the outhouse to pee.
But if the Drake himself didn’t quite know how to explain what he’d done, he was still an inspiration to those who had seen him. To anyone who truly wanted to see what the spear could show them, he had done it. They recognized it and celebrated him.
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria, for instance, had to call in sick the day after Relc’s achievements for the first time in her entire career.
She who had fought while sick with Feverdawn Flu and Specklescale—both incidents of which had gotten members of her squad sick and had her confined to bedrest afterwards—had to beg off duty in Liscor’s 2nd Army.
Mostly because she was so hungover and had partied so hard with 4th Company that she had passed out at 5 AM. With a huge smile on her face. So had a lot of 4th Company—what else could you say? He was a ‘traitor’ who’d quit for Liscor, but some had known him, or heard of him.
And no one had expected Relc to hit Level 40, much less do what he’d done. He was, well…just Relc.
A Relc Relc’d at his best Relc when he was just a Relc, not Relcing for attention. In a sense, Relc could out-Relc himself by getting in his own head about the Relc he was trying to be.
Did that make sense? It did to Embria. And once again, she found home pulling her back more than, well, the army. Liscor had more big things going on. The army always had action, but it was a lot of counting coins, mercenary work. It didn’t grow with the city anymore, even with the damn Antinium.
The army…sometimes, these days, she hated to admit it, but she thought the other Wing Commanders were seeing her point. It wasn’t just that the Antinium weren’t that bad—crazy, treacherous though that was to say!
…It was just that Liscor’s 2nd Army had a bit more material, a bit more fresh troops, and didn’t have to scrounge armor after battles for the [Field Smiths]. Far fewer officers, far fewer levels—but they’d spared 4th, 11th, 6th, and 9th companies. Ostensibly to defend home, but Embria wondered.
Her pay was never late in 2nd Army. It was pretty much a given you were four months behind in her army. Olesm had shot down the idea when she’d suggested holding pay back.
‘Why would we do it when we’re so close to Liscor? It works if we’re on campaign and fear desertion.’ To which she’d been about to reply before she realized he was right, they didn’t fear desertion. Which begged the question…
How was Liscor’s original, first army, doing if you were able to take an objective look at it?
 
——
 
Liscor’s 1st Army had a problem. One it did not expect.
It was not just that they had cut ties with their home city, that they had not gone home in over ten years, and that they were more roving wanderers than an army with a home.
It was not just that they had to rely on recruits from any city they passed by, that they had no permanent supply lines to count on, and as such, fought to keep their numbers stable.
It was not just that the troops claimed to have seen General Sserys rise from the dead in the body of one of the most hated Humans in the world—at least in High Command’s eyes—and there was tension in the ranks about whether or not they were in the right place.
It was not just that their glory days lay behind them, that they were not the army that General Sserys had used to turn the Black Tide back with.
These things were true. They had been true the moment Sserys died. What you forgot if you were young was that Liscor’s army had always been rough-and-tumble. It had been well-known, even famous, but hardly legendary. It had won and lost under General Sserys; the Antinium Wars were where they’d shone.
With recruits from across Izril and the support of all the desperate Walled Cities, Liscor’s Army had been in a golden era they had never reclaimed despite their attempts. They had [Generals]. They had a High Command. But they didn’t have the same levels, the same talent as back then.
Many of their best had gone back to their cities. Or, in some cases like Relc’s, just left or died before hitting their potential.
Relc. The Gecko’s triumphs were like a knife to the kidneys of Liscor’s Army, a sore reminder of what they’d lost. More than that, proof that to thrive, to reach his level, you should quit the army. That he had not been wrong.
More could be said of Liscor’s Army, but their great problem was this: of late, Liscor had begun sending back the money the army won for it every year.
Money was the obsession of Liscor’s Army. High Command squeezed every copper coin it could out of contracts. They were always picking up work, saving, grinding their foes and each other for enough gold to send to Liscor. Because, up until last year, they’d been a core part of Liscor’s economy.
It was their leverage over the Council. It was support for a city cut off economically (again, until now) for most of the year from the south and even the north when it rained. It was pride and purpose. And it was damn hard.
Even for a successful mercenary army, do you know how hard it was to save ten thousand gold pieces? Let alone enough for a city’s budget? It required sacrifices, keeping soldiers’ pay until they threatened to riot, and it made the army push to meet their goals.
This year…Liscor had not only not taken the money, they’d sent it back.
Chaos.
High Command didn’t know what to do. They were faced with the mutual dilemmas of losing control over Liscor—realizing Liscor didn’t need them—and having gold for themselves. Did they give the [Soldiers] a raise? Pay for the new armor each company needed? Run recruiting drives? In service of what, now?
The threat of having to earn more gold had kept Liscor’s Army going for ten years. Without that pressure, they might fall apart. Ancestors, one of the reasons why sending 4th Company, and then three more companies to reinforce Liscor, hadn’t been so bad was because it saved them from having to pay for the expensive Skywalkers with their cavalry and their [Mages] so they could cast [Light Bridge] spells!
Now what?
What did they do? Half of High Command was a mind to march back once the Floodplains cleared and remind Liscor what they owed. The other half was seeing this as a moment to really expand, to get back to the glory days Sserys had reminded them of. But all sides could agree: their city was damned. They were embracing Humans, Antinium, the north!
So why weren’t they failing? Surely, it was a matter of time. If the army hung on one more year, Liscor would collapse and they’d be needed. Surely…that Gecko had to settle for some middle-aged Human woman with grey hair. Even if she was a—an Archmage.
They were doing great. Just fine. No one liked it when Liscor was under attack or had another disaster. The Goblin King? Every unit had been refusing to march unless it was north. But—
But—High Command were waiting, just like everyone else. Waiting. They cared about their home. They were just waiting for home to call for them, their army. To ring those bells and beg for their saviors, just like with Az’kerash and the Black Tide. But that plea never came. At least, in the right way.
When the moment came and they returned, the Free Antinium had to go. That was obvious. Anything less than that meant it wasn’t time. If Liscor’s army showed up, fought and died for home, and then they were sent on their way with a pat on the tail and the Antinium remained, or worse, they bled and the Antinium were in a position to take over completely…
That’s why some in the High Command had seen Tyrion Veltras’ army as an…opportunity. Not that they’d said as much to the troops, who were begging to return.
Send a company, find a contract that locked them in, and think.
The [Lord] was a bastard, and he’d been worse when his wife was alive, a real threat to Liscor, but he didn’t execute cities wholesale. There’d be some casualties when he took the gates and walls, but minimal. Say he took Liscor. What then?
The Free Antinium might clash with the north. In the ensuing bloodbath, that was the moment. So they’d waited. And hoped—and fate had twisted things again, so their salvation of Liscor, Liscor’s salvation from their madness, was thwarted.
By some damn Goblins fighting each other and an [Innkeeper]. It was a curse. That was the rumor that was quashed down by the brass. But in truth, Liscor’s army was just upset because Olesm, the Council, the citizens, weren’t coming back to them and begging them, specifically, for aid. Instead, it was Pallass, all of the south.
It was like they’d been forgotten. And that notion, that realization, was like a wound that festered in the mind. 
It couldn’t be. Not us. Not after all we’ve done for them.
We weren’t wrong. It’s not our faults.
What are you doing?
Hold on, hold on…if they held on, they’d have their moment. The perfect moment when things were lined up for them to return and set all things to right. Just hold on a bit longer.
As for Relc, forget about him. It was just temporary, a fluke. Just…
 
——-
 
A moment in the sun.
The clouds broke and revealed the blue skies above as the Drake shaded his eyes. The rains ceased pouring down on the magical shields hovering overhead, and he couldn’t hear anything over the cheering.
His mouth was open in a classically dumbstruck expression as he stood before the crowds, crowds of people cheering him and Valeterisa. Filling Shivertail Plaza. A parade being thrown for their Gecko of Liscor and the Archmage of Izril.
It wasn’t all about him. There were banners of Lord Mireden facing down the Archmage of Lightning flying from some buildings, and Valeterisa lifting Fissival overhead—he didn’t even have a doll on sale in the stands.
Relc was fine with that. But he was still part of this celebration.
The suspiciously well-made banners certainly were doing a lot for Valeterisa and Lord Mireden’s reputations. He’d gone through the city earlier this morning before giving a speech for his district on what he intended to do for Liscor.
Relc had a feeling that Mireden might win the elections. But he wasn’t a gambling man except when he’d had a few drinks, and only for coppers. After all, he had a kid an Archmage to support.
Valeterisa was so overwhelmed by the noise that she instantly floated back through the [Door of Portals] and tried to hide in the inn. But even there, Relc was getting more cheering than he thought he really deserved.
“Relc, Relc, Relc!”
Mrsha and Nanette chanted as they banged on the breakfast table. Well, Nanette chanted for the two of them. And Lyonette had been singing that song about flying Archmages—
“Hey, it’s like I’m popular or something! You throw one spear at an Archmage and everyone wants to be your friend or something!”
Relc joked weakly, and Asgra raised a water pitcher to huck at Valeterisa just in case it was true. But it was Elia Arcsinger who actually made the most sense in the moment. She planted herself in front of Valeterisa and spoke.
“You have to go out and let them celebrate you. Or they’ll think you’re too good for their feelings.”
“Most of the battle was me being hit by lightning bolts! I dislike loud sounds and socializing with people who like me prior to me even meeting them!”
Valeterisa snapped back, but Elia just fixed her with that cool, professional gaze of one of the world’s most famous adventurers.
“Better that they like you than resent you. They came out in the rain for you; just smile and wave. Or cast a few spells. That’s all they want. Answer their expectations as best you can. They’ll get tired after a few days.”
Because it was, well, Elia Arcsinger, Relc and Valeterisa glanced at each other. Elia chewed on her words, then added—
“And enjoy it. You earned it.”
She nodded at them and strode away. Calescent gave her a thumbs up, and she pretended not to notice as she folded her arms and leaned against one wall. So cool. So professional.
“I suppose I could create a [Silence] spell and work on new spellcasting theories…and it would be good advertising for the academy. But where did all the dolls of me come from? I am objectionably proportioned.”
Valeterisa was actually calmer than Relc about all of this. She, at least, had already done something like this in raising Fissival into the skies, and she had a lifetime of being an Archmage. He froze up when he saw the crowds again.
“Relc! Relc! Relc!”
They were chanting his name! People he knew, like the elderly woman who sometimes gave him old sandwiches on Market Street! And his buddies in the Watch!
And worse…
“Aha! There’s our heroes of the day! I was about to get worried!”
Lism. He had a too-large smile as he posed with the duo, raising his claws in a ‘L’ sign.
“Lism and the current Council! Vote for us! Sending the King of Destruction packing since the Winter Solstice! Where’s our music?”
Oh, dead gods, there was a marching band. And a choir, who began playing Liscor’s newly-written anthem.
 
“Oh~ say what stands upon those many hills,
Doth thou city stand amidst the rains?
It does, oh Liscor o’er valleys bloom,
As Rock Crabs scuttle these very Flood-Plaaaains~”
 
After two more verses, even the choir stopped singing to Relc’s eternal relief. The anthem…needed work.
At this point, Relc was thinking that Valeterisa’s approach was the right one; he thought she might have [Blinded] herself, and she had certainly deafened herself to the noise.
“Lism, this is a bit much—”
“What? I can’t hear you! Earplugs! Where’s your spear?”
“It blew up!”
Relc was still mad about that, actually. He knew with his new class he could get a new spear, but he’d been hunting around for a piece of his old spear so he could bury or cremate it or something. It had saved his life more than anything…Lism stared blankly at Relc.
“We’ll get you a spare, then! Someone get a spear!”
“For what? Am I on duty?”
“No, the exhibition, of course! You got my [Message], right? I got a very strange response from Archmage Valeterisa—”
Lism saw Relc’s face and shouted happily.
“Don’t worry! Just show off! Do a few spear dances and wow us! You hit Level 40, right? We’ll broadcast it live!”
He had called it with the King of Destruction and selling water to a certain Garuda. But all things considered, Lism’s instincts weren’t always perfect.
 
——
 
Part of it was Mrsha’s fault, just once. She had done her best, but the girl slipped up. It wasn’t just her fault—it was Nanette’s too!
Elirr had run into the inn that morning, demanding to know how they were supposed to ‘showcase Relc’s talents’. Valeterisa was easy; she could do magic, but it was a good idea to let Relc show off, right? Right?
He might have been a tad bit frantic, and this sounded quite innocent. So the two girls had perked up. They had tons of great ideas.
“Mrsha, what if he did that thing, like in the World’s Eye Theatre? He could do, like, a training exhibition. With poles he jumps on and a spear—”
Mrsha had nodded vigorously. After all, it was Relc, right? Elirr had read desperately as he cribbed notes.
“Show off spear skills…we’ll need a stage. Right, right…throw rocks at him?”
So he can block them all cool like.
“Ah, I see. And he could do a spear dance—perfect! Plus, we could let him cut water or whatever he did—maybe have him hit a few targets with his spear?”
“Don’t forget the theme song.”
Nanette added seriously, and Mrsha nodded. A training montage had to have a good song. And wouldn’t you know it, but they had a great one from this movie they liked…
 
——
 
The moment he heard the music come on as he stood in the wide platform space with a flashy golden spear in hand, Relc knew who to blame.
He glared at the two girls waving in the sea of faces around him. Then he whirled his spear and tried to grin.
“Uh—hey! I’m the Spear of Silence! Liscor’s spearmaster!”
His voice provoked a cheer, again, before a bunch of volunteers with rocks raised them. Relc stared blankly at the rocks. Then at the obstacle course.
What the heck am I doing?
He began to get into it, though, when the first shower of rocks came his way. The Drake’s spear whirled automatically as he cursed; the rocks went flying, and the audience gasped.
Wait, he could actually deflect rocks? Was this their Relc, the bored Senior Guard? The Drake stopped, blinked, and then posed.
“Yeah! That’s Relc-style!”
He whirled the spear one-handed in a circle, then let the butt thunk against one shoulder as he posed like that movie that Mrsha liked so much. He executed a flying jump kick, balanced on the spear, and began his spear dances.
The audience watched, cheering, as the Drake showed off his Skills on the stage, and after six minutes, the cheering had died down. And they realized the same thing Lism did, watching from the side.
This sucked.
Oh, some things looked cool, like when Relc ‘froze’ a sheet of water like glass. People would have loved to get up and touch it or ask Relc what he was doing, but it didn’t fit the stage. In a very real sense, it didn’t fit Relc.
When Relc was showing off, being his most generic Relc to anyone who didn’t know Relc, he came across as the Relc that you didn’t want to Relc with. It was when he was accidentally his most Relc that the inner Relc came out. And it was the accidental Relc they’d seen yesterday, not this Relc-on-display.
To his credit, the Drake seemed to realize it too, because after seven minutes of breaking clay pots on stage and firing off his Skills, he planted his spear on the platform, cast around, and turned to Lism with a huge smile.
“I’m done.”
“Er—what?”
Lism had budgeted thirty minutes for this with plans to run into an hour! And again, he was a fool, a damned fool.
Seven minutes? Most [Spearmasters] didn’t have enough Skills to chain into a performance for seven minutes; they’d fight an entire duel in less time in most cases! Relc was no [Performer]; he was the Gecko of Liscor. His spear moves were expedient, not flashy. And he was not comfortable.
Relc was about to hop off the platform and find Valeterisa. He only hesitated when he saw the disappointed expressions of some people holding spears, toys, or practice spears.
“Aw, Ancestors, Lism. What are you doing? I’m not the person you should be celebrating, and I can’t make spear training seem fun! It’s all bruises, blisters, and tears if you stab yourself in the nuts!”
He growled at Lism, genuinely annoyed. The Councilmember put up his claws.
“We’re doing this for you, Relc! This is your moment!”
“I’m just a Senior Guard—a Watch Sergeant! I’m not whatever you think deserves this!”
Relc was still audible due to the [Loudness] spell, and the audience suddenly saw the Gecko of Liscor arguing with Councilmember Lism. Not a good look.
Salvation from this circumstance came to Lism as he prayed for help. Not that he was one of those weird Antinium—he heard a group cheering, who hadn’t stopped even when Relc had lost momentum.
“Relc! Go Relc! Whooo!”
The enthusiastic group were people who actually knew Relc as more than a [Guardsman]. Relc turned and grinned as he spotted Hickery, Vok, and—
“Hey, my spear-kids! Look!”
They’d shown up, of course. All the kids who were drawn to Relc’s dawn classes, holding their practice spears and shouting their lungs out. Relc turned to Lism.
“I’m going to go talk to them. You do election stuff, how about that? We all win.”
Lism cast a glance at the crowd who’d come here for Relc, and he had a premonition of how well doing a stump speech would go. As Relc turned, the desperate mind of the [Shopkeeper]-turned-[Councilmember] worked, and Lism had a genius idea.
“Well, if you’re done…bring them up, and let’s see what you’ve taught them!”
Relc blinked—then cast his gaze over the crowd. He hesitated, and then his face lit up. Because that?
That was a Relc-worthy idea.
 
——
 
Lessons from the Gecko of Liscor. No, no, spear mastery showcased by Relc Grasstongue’s apprentices!
Archmage Valeterisa was done with her exhibition—she’d fired eight spells off in quick succession, advertised Kaalblades from the House of El, mentioned her academy, and flown off. So the crowds of people who’d come to Liscor for fun and celebrations were set adrift.
Anama, the Drake Sootling from Pallass, was one of thousands of visitors. When she heard about the [Spearmaster]’s exhibition, she thought it sounded lame, but she had nothing else to do besides wander the city, so why not?
That was how she found the huge platform filled with more than four dozen students of Relc holding practice spears. Anama almost laughed at one of the front-rank students; she looked like she wasn’t even ten! And there was a junior [Guardsman] next to her…
Hickery and Vok, Relc’s students from Cellidel, were trembling with excitement and nerves. After all, they were on the stand in front of the crowd, and Relc was watching from the sides.
The Gecko of Liscor couldn’t be happier. He was genuinely beaming now. And he had a stone in his hand.
The Relc methods of training were gentler than the Jelaqua school of levelling, but there were overlaps.
“Hey, Hickery, last chance to back out! No? Alright, let ‘em have it!”
The shower of stones tossed onto the stage at the Gnoll girl standing in the center of the group was less motivated than when they’d chucked the stones at Relc. Anama gasped.
That girl was going to get stoned—this was going to be hilarious!
Then she saw Hickery’s stick blur even as the girl’s eyes widened with panic. The clack of stick meeting stone was like an avalanche, and then—the rocks were flying everywhere!
“Whoa! Careful—”
One of the rocks nearly brained Anama in the crowd! Relc caught one of the pebbles with a grin.
“Think fast, kid!”
He sidearmed the stone at Hickery so hard that this time, Anama barely saw it. Lism blanched, and Hickery blocked—the stone hit her staff dead-center, and she skidded back.
“Relc! You could have killed me!”
“Nah! You can block pillows just fine, so I knew you’d be okay. Wait, are your parents here?”
Relc glanced around, and Hickery’s parents were indeed there, open-mouthed. They knew that Hickery had talent, and she showed up and practiced the spear-training classes more than anything else, but seeing their girl block a storm of stones?
Lism’s mouth was just as gaping.
“That’s a [Spearmaster] in the making. Tekshia won’t be the last female [Spearmaster] of this city—Relc! Can all your students do that?”
“Hickery’s one of the best. Vok, you want a go?”
“No!”
Sadly, the crowd was cheering, and the nervous [Junior Guard] had to take a turn. He was wearing his armor, which was good because he was hit—but his defensive spear whirl still caught quite a few stones! And, Anama realized—all of Relc’s students were kids!
Oh, there were older [Guards] and spear-users that Relc knew on the sides, but he had his students show off a few basic moves he’d taught them.
Lunge and stab.
Backstep slash.
Quick jab and parry.
These were not hard moves. And Relc himself could demonstrate each move with an aplomb that none of them could match, but here was the thing that Lism was learning: it looked way better to see a group of people moving in concert than one expert alone.
There was some power to the unity, the sense of cohesion of seeing a group of fifty strong led by Relc stabbing the air. Whirling the spear to strike left. Executing a jump-kick—okay, half of them failed that, but they were laughing.
The air was relaxed. Relc was calling people up.
“Hey, we’ve got lots of practice spears! Anyone want to learn a spear move? It’s not just for kids! Tekshia said it was great for her health!”
“No thanks! I don’t want to be an adventurer that bad!”
Someone shouted as Anama hesitated, wondering if she…? She lowered her hand, remembering she was a Sootling. But Relc just called back at the heckler.
“Who said it’s for fighting? It could just be exercise or self-defense! C’mon, kids. Let’s show them an intermediate spear dance, then let’s see if you can do this weird cut.”
He and six other students stepped forwards and whirled their spears in synchronization. The delighted expression on Hickery’s face as she pivoted and stabbed in concert with Relc sold Anama.
The shy Sootling tried to cover her face, but Relc barely gave her a second glance as over a hundred people got on stage and he pivoted to show them the first move. When everyone managed the first stab and the ‘hah!’ he told them to shout because it sounded cool—
Anama felt something. She swung the spear, building up a sweat in the temporary reprieve from the rains. When she saw the Gecko grinning and giving them a thumbs up, she wondered. Maybe she could learn to use the spear. It felt…easy with him teaching. Or a sword?
 
——
 
That was the magic of Relc when the Relcening occurred at its finest. He could not perform before a city.
But he could teach a parade how to swing a spear. It seemed even he didn’t know that until now.
Valeterisa was watching Relc and sighing as she rested her chin in her hands. Any more lovestruck and Jelaqua wouldn’t be surprised if little pink hearts floated off of her.
“He’d have made a great [Mercenary Captain] back home. But you know, you don’t have to be that lovey-dovey in public. It’s sort of embarrassing.”
She covered her mouth to whisper to Valeterisa as they stood and admired the Gecko from afar. The Archmage blinked at Jelaqua and frowned. She opened her mouth, but even her many [Parallel Thoughts] couldn’t quite articulate how hypocritical that sounded.
The brief window of daylight ended abruptly, and the shower of rains returning put an end to Relc’s lessons. He ran with the rest of the crowd, laughing. And there went the Gecko of Liscor. As Tekshia Shivertail might have said, if she could see it, it was decently done.
Rather than being an unapproachable figure who was treated like a lesson or danger, he was still just Relc. Unlike Xil, he would not need to flee his homeland to live alone, attracting only those who wanted to obtain the heights of mastery or be a target for glory-seekers.
Just Relc. He raised the spear overhead as he shouted.
“Alright! Let’s get to The W—to Barehoof Kitchens for some snacks and milkshakes! Councilmember Lism’s buying!”
 
[Trusted Sergeant of the Watch Level 26!]
[Synergy Skill: Spearmaster – Advanced Spear Training Obtained!]
 
——
 
While others celebrated and lived their lives on land, so often they forgot the sea. A distant continent all of its own, the vastest, so wide and sprawling that far from shore, events could take place that the landfolk never dreamed of.
Such as—
The storm.
Magical Storm Thiborkilj had neither relented nor stopped since it had come howling down off Cenidau’s coast. But it had not come for any continent; instead it had kept tearing across the sea, gaining in momentum, grounding all sea traffic in its wake.
A disruption for commerce. An inconvenience for those who wondered where their delivery of sugar or Terandrian plums was.
For anyone caught up in the storm, fleeing it, it was a nightmare. The winds did not stop howling. They tore around in a vortex until the screaming siren became second-nature. The colorful rain lashed sky and ground until you couldn’t tell which way was up or down, until the seas heaved and a wall of water was sent upwards.
For any ship caught in Thiborkilj itself…only the true sailors of the sea were as yet alive. Crews grimly hunkering in place, bailing water, [Captains] fighting to keep their vessels afloat for if they capsized they died.
How long they had fought, they did not know. But even the greatest of storms could not last forever. And Thiborkilj was no legendary storm to last a century. The maelstrom slackened, and there it was.
A moment in the sun. A break in the rains. For a minute, like the Gecko of Liscor, the Drowned Man caught sight of the sun.
Orange rain lashed against his skin. Lightning flashed down, too-yellow, and he felt the hum of magic in his molars. As he opened his mouth, it condensed, mana so rich it was becoming physical.
“Hang on! I can see the sun—!”
Did they even hear him? The Dorhmin boy, Irrel, and the half-Elf girl, Tissl, were clinging to the railings, lashed to them. Not below; there was no safety there. If this ship went down, at least they wouldn’t be trapped inside.
Another wave lifted them up, and the Drowned Man felt his stomach lurch, and he braced—the other two did likewise. If Tissl was no seawoman before now, then her first magical storm was a rite of passage for [Storm Sailors].
Crash. The roaring of waters as the enchanted ship desperately righted, and Seborn dragged the wheel to counter the listing ship. Water burst over his legs, and it was purple—was it his eyes or the magic?
The colors of magic were raining down around him as the magical storm sprayed them once more with water and tried to drag them down. The worst part was—it wasn’t just cold.
Seborn was cold, chilled, but the waters ranged from boiling hot to icy at times. It felt like a dream. If he lost focus, the Drowned Man knew he’d begin to hallucinate. They’d been days without sleep, and this was the most treacherous moment—when you could think this was all some dream as your senses betrayed you.
“Tissl? Are you hanging in there? Tissl?”
He turned his head, and the half-Elven girl was blinking. Something was racing up her hands. It looked like a line of glowing ants…Seborn blinked, but the apparition didn’t.
Magic. Her armor was attracting it. The ancient half-Elf’s gear was collecting green sparks of mana up her arms. The girl reached for them dreamily.
“Tissl! Hold on!”
She was fumbling at her gauntlets, forgetting to hold onto the railings.
“It itches. It—”
She was sleep-deprived and stumbled as the ship rocked in the face of another wave. Irrel grabbed her, and she started—the Dorhmin boy glanced up, and the wave sent him crashing against the decks.
“This bad. Bad storm.”
He was bleeding red as he rose and wiped at his forehead, grim. Even the son of an [Admiral] of the Bloodtear Pirates was humbled by this storm. His green eyes glowed brighter as he turned his head.
“This bad, Captain.”
“We just have to make it let us go! Damn it, grab Tissl and hold on!”
Seborn was cursing the storm. It had seized them up and, rather than spit them out, held The Halfseeker’s Promise and carried their little ship with it.
The worst of all outcomes. Not only did he not know where the hell they were, the further into deep sea they got, the more the storm could toss them about. In a way, the lightness of their vessel had saved them; they could move with the water rather than be smashed like a heavier ship would be. If that Minotaur cargoship had followed, it might have cracked under the forces at play.
Not like this one’s guaranteed to continue lasting. That was what Irrel meant. Seborn wasn’t sure if he should relinquish the helm to Tissl to try and climb the mainsail to see if he could spot a way out of this storm or just hold on.
This magical storm can’t go on forever. Unless it’s like one of the ones that just moves around the ocean picking up more and more magic. How long did one of those storms rage? Two years? Anyone trapped in that one had surely died of exhaustion if not…
Focus. Seborn slapped himself. Then he saw the waters sucking down and bellowed.
“Whirlpool! Whirl—”
They were being dragged around in a huge arc towards a vortex forming in the sea itself. Irrel’s eyes went round, and his hand rose to the sword on his back.
If we’re dragged down—better to cut free of the ropes. Seborn took one look at the size of the hole in the waters and realized he could have fit this ship across it six times with ease. He let go of the wheel. Cut himself free and ran towards the other two. Seborn lashed himself with the ropes, fingers slipping in the rain, and put a hand on his daggers.
“Hold on!”
“Seborn! Irrel! My armor’s hot!”
Tissl was clawing at her armor, and Seborn saw the magic was glowing brighter. He cursed. Was she overloading? They had nowhere to put the magical items but her bag of holding.
“Stow anything you’re not wearing! Hold on! We’re going down!”
He saw her fumbling with her armor, and then the ship was turning. It was tilting, and Seborn’s stomach dropped.
First it was a slant, ten degrees. Then twenty…then they were being pressed against the railings.
Krakens wake. We’re going over.
Forty degrees and Seborn’s clawed hand was on the ropes. He was gazing at Irrel and regretting taking them into the storm. Down—the waters were dragging them down into the vortex, and Tissl was screaming.
“My armor—”
It was lighting up, covered in a million glowing ants. Irrel’s teeth were bared as he clutched her shoulder, despite the crawling magic. Seborn peered into the heart of the whirlpool as their ship turned ninety degrees, and they were standing on the railings.
“Dead gods, Erin. Even you couldn’t think of this.”
It was the Drowned Man who saw what was coming next. The water funneling down was magical, swirling like a rainbow of colors and more he could not name. As they sank into the center of the whirlpool, there was a surge from below.
Magical storms. The whirlpool was reversing; a jet of water was rising upwards, pale white, shooting skywards, piercing the storm, tearing the clouds and rains apart, pulling everything with it. Including the ship—
Seborn felt them rising. In the last flashing moments, he saw Irrel let go of the railing and place both arms around Tissl. Seborn grabbed them one-armed, holding onto the ropes with the other—just in time for the railings to snap.
Their feet left the ground, but they were flying up. The ship now above them—the water hurling itself skywards as Tissl’s mouth opened. Seborn read her lips as she said:
“Activate armor—”
 
——
 
Any good adventure should have its ups and downs. But preferably more ups than downs. There was always a twist, always a monster in the place you didn’t expect it. And sometimes, a mystery waiting to be unveiled. A secret magical item.
Such as the armor of a long-dead [Pirate Captain]. What might such a man think was worthy armor? Protection, yes. Style, certainly. But possibly—seafaring enchantments.
Like, perhaps, a way to save oneself even in a terrible storm.
She didn’t know what happened in the moments they were flying upwards. Only that when she opened her eyes, she was standing on the deck of The Halfseeker’s Promise. And the ship was flying.
Oh, it was still being carried upwards by the jet stream; this was no effect of the armor. The armor’s magic was only enough to teleport her onto the ship and, apparently, keep it level.
Tissl stared down at the object she was clutching—the helm. The wheel’s spokes were in her hands, and she breathed in as they kept flying skywards.
“Captain? Irrel?”
The second problem—the armor only worked on her. The half-Elf’s eyes, roaming the illuminated darkness of the storm, found the sky being breached by the magical storm’s final act. Clear skies beyond—then the sea far, far below them. The funnel of water.
Seborn and Irrel, then, the only dots standing out against a white barrage of water flying skywards. Dropping away from her.
“Seborn! Irrel!”
Tissl screamed. She swung the wheel, but it was pointless—and she realized she might be in the most danger of all. Because she was still going up; they were headed down. The half-Elf was too terrified to jump off the ship and be caught by the geyser, and she could breathe no water unless that was another enchantment of the armor.
She didn’t want to find out—so she clung to the wheel. And thus, she was the only member of the crew who stayed on board the ship for those last moments as it was shot skywards.
When they passed the first layer of clouds, Tissl knew she was dead. The waters were showering down, now, and below her, the magical storm was dying as it hurled itself into the sky. She was gasping, pressed down by the forces shooting the ship higher.
I won’t survive this fall, surely. Unless…she was just watching.
After the second layer of clouds, the water started falling. The momentum of the ship—the half-Elf girl was delirious as she clung to the wheel and felt herself beginning to drop.
In that dizzying moment between ascent and descent where she was floating, the half-Elf girl gaped around at a world only a few beings could ever see. Higher than Garuda dreamed of flying unaided. In the wide, vast sky…
“Is that a city?”
Her eyes, stained by burst blood vessels, locked on something in the clouds. Tissl reached out—then they were falling.
The ship and the half-Elf. Her head craned upwards as the wind began to rush around her. The girl gazed down as the acceleration grew worse, and now she was clinging to the wheel with both hands as her legs lifted up.
Down. Down into the sea below where there was naught but a single rain-drenched island, tiny as a dot in the distance. Just ocean—so fast she knew it would splatter every bone in her body.
The Half-Elf gazed downwards at the waters drawing nearer with each faltering breath. And she thought—
This is a glorious death. But she didn’t want to die. Her adventure was just beginning. It wouldn’t…it surely wasn’t this easy, was it?
It was the only idea she had. So she drew on her birthright, not her gifts from a ghost. Her mother’s teachings. A bit of magic.
“[F-Featherfall]?”
Then she let go of the wheel and prayed to an [Innkeeper] she’d never met.
As if it were laughing at her—
The wind carried her down around the falling white water.
 
——
 
The handy thing about being a high-level [Rogue] and Drowned Man were twofold.
First—if you performed a [Shadow Leap] into the water before hitting it, you could bypass the impact of the water hitting you, even at terminal velocity.
Second, even if you passed out, you wouldn’t drown.
That was the good news for him. When Seborn awoke on his back in the cold, salty, normal waters, he gazed around and didn’t know if they were alive. And that panic nearly consumed him until he got his bearings.
“Irrel? Tissl?”
The Drowned Man shouted, splashing around in the waters. He was at sea. Far at sea; there was nothing around him. Except for—his eyes focused on a dot on the horizon.
Land? A ship? Too big for a ship—he began to butterfly stroke forwards, then shouted again.
“Tissl? Irrel!”
She had gone up. He’d seen her teleport. Would that Relic-class armor save her? Or the Dorhmin? He—
He was praying for mercy. Not again. Not—
 
——
 
The way the Drowned Man shouted his name made Irrel think that this was not some act. And he had wondered…if anyone would trust him like his father and his crew. The Dorhmin boy sat up in the waters where he had been laying on his back.
He was at home in the seas, even more than on deck, and he’d been conserving his strength. Sleeping like a body stretched out in a casket, clutching a sword to his chest. If he had to swim for days, he needed his strength, much less to fight off sea creatures.
The damn sword was still with him. He’d almost hoped he’d lose it, but it seemed destiny had linked the two. Irrel turned, triangulating Seborn’s voice.
“Seborn! Here!”
The silence of the magical storm dying left the oceans very, very calm except for the slosh of water. Seborn was very far off, but he recognized Irrel’s voice, because he shouted—and the two swam toward each other.
The Drowned Man had a desperate expression on his face as Seborn almost jumped over a small wave.
“Irrel! You’re alive!”
“Somehow.”
Even with Seborn’s trick, Irrel was very surprised. And he’d fought with the Bloodtear Pirates all his life. Seborn checked him over.
“You’re not hurt? Did you land with me? I passed out.”
“Me too. Nearly died.”
“How?”
Irrel pointed at the damn sword.
“Almost cut my damn head off. Fell right where I was. Dodged it.”
He wasn’t quite sure how he’d dodged it either. Only that he’d jerked his head aside and then caught the sword before it could sink forever. Passed out, breathing seawater.
“That’s good. That’s…you haven’t seen Tissl?”
“No. She went up.”
Irrel had a bad feeling about Tissl. And the ship. If they’d barely survived a fall that bad…how high had Tissl gone?
Neither man wanted to say it. Instead, Seborn just pointed.
“There’s something that way. See it?”
“Yup. Island. Don’t know where we are. Thought it might be the Archmage’s Isle. Or another one.”
“Hesheit? Wrong side of the continent.”
“Could be.”
“…You’re right. Let’s head towards it. C’mon.”
The two began to swim at a steady pace, not saying much. How would they even find Tissl? Scrying spell, perhaps, if they could find a port. That was the only way. Otherwise, seeing someone in the open sea was beyond difficult.
You’d have to know where they were to find them. Or have the advantage of height and a really good spyglass and Skills…both things that neither Irrel nor Seborn had.
Or—
About fifty minutes into their swim, the island had only marginally gotten closer. It was as if they weren’t making any headway, but neither Seborn nor Irrel felt a current…but the slosh of waves and their glancing about revealed something to Irrel. He grabbed Seborn’s arm.
“Blood under the decks. Seborn.”
The oath made the Drowned Man turn. He stared. Then spat some water out and coughed.
“That’s a mirage. We’re dead and—”
“Nope.”
“I’m telling you, you probably hallucinate when you die in the deadlands or something.”
“I’m Dorhmin. We probably don’t go anywhere.”
So, Irrel smiled as he heard a cheerful voice shouting at them.
“Ahoy, Captain! Ahoy, Irrel! Guess who levelled up and can [Locate Crew]?”
Tissl? She was standing aboard the sorriest ship that Irrel had seen in his entire life. If the keel wasn’t broken beyond saving, he was a [Storm Sailor]’s uncle, and the ship appeared several feet shorter, as if it had been squished together by the force of landing.
“Dead gods, Tissl! How the hell are you on that ship and how is it sailing?”
The Halfseeker’s Promise had only one sail partly rigged up, and Tissl was fighting the wheel. She shouted back, looking remarkably good for someone who’d survived a skyfall.
“My armor teleported me onto the deck after I landed! I tell you what, that Lord Gillam must have paid for great enchantments! I reckon they’re all busted, though.”
“No, no, how is that ship—”
“Oh, it was sinking when I teleported back on! I used up every [Repair] scroll in the ship, and it’s still leaky. But I didn’t die! I used [Featherfall], and then I just teleported onto the ship—after I finished making sure it wasn’t going to sink, I sailed around until I had to sleep. Then I woke up with my new Skill, and I found you two right away!”
She was beaming with such a self-satisfied expression that Irrel got sort of annoyed. From her condition, she’d clearly slept in a bed rather than passed out amidst the waves. He felt he needed to ask.
“You can just [Featherfall] out of the sky?”
“I mean, I never used it to jump off more’n a small cliff back home. But Ma taught it to us because it’s a good spell to know, even if we didn’t become [Mages]. Turns out it works.”
Seborn’s mouth opened, and he had to spit out some water.
“Damn [Mages].”
This comment was in spite of the fact that he’d teleported them into the water with a half-second’s window. Irrel shook his head.
“Damn level people.”
Tissl tossed a rope ladder down.
“All aboard, Captain?”
 
——
 
Things weren’t as rosy as all that, but considering he could have had two dead kids and no ship, Seborn decided he needed to make an offering to the seas. Or Erins. He wondered what she’d accept.
“…Mac and cheese?”
“Don’t got whatever that is, Captain, but we’ve got food! How’s it look, Irrel?”
“That [Lord] paid too much for the enchantments. Some are still active.”
Seborn twisted around, and Irrel clarified.
“Not protection. Just the water-bailing spells and some others. It’s why it’s not sunk.”
“Dead gods. He was bragging, but I thought he wasn’t that rich. Then again, he said a proper [Shipwright] had made this. I’m going to sing their praises up and down the coasts.”
So much for my ship, though. Well, it could still float. Tissl had gotten one sail up; the others had been ripped away and one mast had cracked, but they were alive and could sleep.
His crew was alive. Seborn sagged against the cabin’s wall when they weren’t looking, then came out, all briskness.
“Right, first things first. Let’s get to that island. If it’s deserted, we grab supplies and figure out where the hell we are. Hopefully Mrsha contacts us. She must be trying. If it’s inhabited, repairs. Both of you—good work. Tissl, you’re a woman of the sea now.”
“Ew. I don’t like that name.”
“It means you survived a magical storm. Any [Storm Sailor] would call you that.”
“It sounds like I’m married or I just had sex or something. Can I not call myself that?”
Irrel grinned as he grabbed a spare set of sails out. Seborn rolled his eyes, but they were all shaken, and if Tissl’s reaction was mouthing off…
They had just gotten the second pair of sails up and Seborn was seeing bits of water actually funnel back out of the ship. Dead gods, it really was still enchanted! They’d better patch up, though. That enchantment had to run out eventually…
Better and better, Tissl called from the main deck.
“Hey, Captain! I think we’ve got a ship to starboard!”
“No. Did that island see us? Or was some other idiot caught in the storm?”
She gave him a spyglass as he strode onto deck.
“I think the second. They look pretty bad, Captain.”
It was true. Seborn’s guess was this ship hadn’t gotten caught in the center of the storm like his. If so, it would be nothing—it had probably just been caught on the outskirts. That was enough for a vessel like this. He grunted.
“That’s a tub. My boots are more seaworthy than that thing.”
It was clearly not made with Skills or from a professional. A single mast had snapped like a twig, and it wasn’t floating under its own power. Figures were bailing water out nonstop. He snapped the spyglass closed.
“It’s half-sunk already. Looks like they’re bailing. Tissl, change of plans.”
“Already on a course to them. Is it a trap?”
He had to admire her instincts. The Drowned Man scratched his chin as Irrel came over to see.
“Could be. But that’s a gutsy move, and I don’t think you feign a sinking ship like that, not right after a magical storm. Even [Pirates] would be checking to see everything’s still attached. Irrel?”
“That’s an ugly ship. Even Antinium build better ships than that.”
The Dorhmin commented, and Seborn grinned. He stretched.
“Plus, they’re Terandrians. We might have gone straight north in which case this is off Pheislant or something. If we’re lucky, they’ll have a noble on board, and that might make up for our [Pirate] status. Pheislant knows to play some games with the law.”
Everyone nodded, and Tissl stared ahead as they made decent speed towards the other ship. Again, thanks to the magical sails; Lord Gillam really had left a good ship to them. She hesitated after a moment.
“Why d’you think they’re Terandrians, Seborn?”
“Skin tone. Wellfars are more tanned. Chandrarians, Balerosians I’d expect to have different dress or just have non-Humans.”
She squinted, then motioned for her spyglass. Irrel had it instead.
“You hit your head, Captain? They all look like Drowned Folk to me. Half fish.”
“I missed that. Maybe half both?”
Irrel frowned at both his crewmates as he handed the spyglass off.
“…They’re Gnolls.”
Both Tissl and Seborn turned to him. The other ship had seen them and were waving and shouting for help. Seborn glanced through the spyglass at them, then swung it left.
“Huh. A ship just left that island. Less primitive…wait. They’re Drakes.”
His eyes narrowed at the other crew, which now looked like Drakes. Tissl opened her mouth, and Seborn grabbed her arm.
“Tissl—don’t get too close. I think—”
The mass-illusion spell broke as they were sailing about two hundred feet from the other ship. Irrel grunted, and Tissl gasped. Her eyes went round, and her hands tightened on the wheel.
“Goblins!”
Seborn closed his eyes as the Goblins on board their sinking ship realized their illusion spells had failed. They began to panic, still bailing water, shouting at each other in their own language as his ship drew alongside.
“No kill! No kill!”
A small Goblin was waving at them. She dove under cover as more hands pulled her back. A mix of Hobs and regular Goblins—they stared up apprehensively at the foreign ship. Eyes fixed on the Drowned Man, who might know the score, the Dorhmin, the half-Elf…and the ship coming from the island.
Their home.
Seborn Sailwinds knew where he was now. If not where, then what he was close to. He cast his eyes up at the famous, deadly place where you could trade or die, bane of the House of Minos.
The Isle of Goblins. Then at the Goblin ship. They tensed, and a few grabbed for bows or weapons as the others tried to stop them. Irrel put his hand on his sword, and Tissl drew her crossbow.
But what they saw, including anxious [Shamans] on shore who had spotted the other vessel, was no bloody boarding of vindictive [Sailors]. Instead, one Drowned Man was clinging to the prow of the ship…shouting obscenities at the air.
“Erin! I need one thing! One thing—and that’s a minute to breathe! Damn you, Erin—”
 
——
 
They let the Goblins aboard. Of course they did. Their ship sank minutes afterwards without the frantic bailing, and Tissl was the only one who hadn’t met non-hostile Goblins. Or Goblins at all; she was wide-eyed as she peeked out of the Captain’s cabin.
That was a precaution. Irrel stood with his back to the cabin’s walls, sword not drawn, but not exposing himself. They were outnumbered ten-to-one by this group of Goblins, and as Seborn well knew, not all Goblins were friendly.
Like anyone, they were a people. But he did his best.
“Er…hello. Mapazu? I’m not an enemy. Kɪskaɪ no. Elame us.”
He felt like an idiot as they stared at him, mouths open. They were green-skinned, crimson-eyed, but had a much duskier hue to their skins, probably from sun exposure—and they wore clothing clearly made from bark or leaves.
Islanders’ clothing. Lots of feathers on some and in their hair. He didn’t miss they were armed, but it wasn’t good stuff. Wood, hand-carved.
But this is the island that gives the Minotaurs a fight of their lives every year. Seborn was wary and wished he remembered more Goblin from Garen.
Mapazu wasn’t the right word—it meant ‘come in’ more than ‘hello’. He only knew kɪskaɪ—enemy—and elame, which was friend. Oh, and how to say ‘my balls are about to fall off you damn Drake’ from when Garen had been hit at speed by a flying Eater Goat in the groin.
However, that worked. The Goblins were so astounded he knew anything that they burst into a chatter. They switched to common as Seborn shook his head.
“I don’t know—no fighting, right? We know the island.”
“Good, good! You elame! Best elame! Storm catch—pshkt! You fall!”
“Ship no go that! We this one? Take wheel not-that is good!”
“We very friendly. Zɪvɪnaɪ not. Is good go?”
He had no idea what…Seborn turned to Irrel.
“Irrel, I’ve only heard of the Goblin isle! I never visited—Garen himself had no idea it existed until I told him. Do you know anything?”
“We traded sometimes, but they speak good common. These young.”
The Dorhmin squinted at the Goblins. It was true, Seborn realized. He’d taken some of the Hobs as adults, but by the metrics of Goblins—who aged fast in any case—these ones appeared young. And Garen hadn’t been that old.
One was a literal Pebblesnatch-sized child who was clutching a pack from the ship. She was pointing at the ship with the others.
“We’ll bring you to the island safely. Deal?”
Seborn tried, and he got a chorus of screeches. One reached for the wheel and, to his surprise, tried to turn them around.
“No! Kɪsk! Bad! Those—zɪvɪnaɪ! Not go back! This way!”
What now? Seborn got his spyglass out as he wrestled the wheel back and saw the other ship was larger, coming at them, and…crewed with adult Goblins.
Hobs, every last one of them. The hairs on his Human half stirred. They were also armed and pointing at him.
“Tell them we’re not kidnapping you.”
One of the Goblins did just that, cupping his hands to his mouth. He shouted.
“Ech!”
Which seemed to be ‘hey’. Then he rattled off a string of Goblin that Seborn couldn’t follow. The other ship didn’t slow, but the warriors did stop aiming bows at him.
“What the hell’s going on?”
Seborn decided he needed answers from someone, and the clearest answer came from the little Goblin with the pack. She had put it down and was rummaging around.
“Those is zɪvɪnaɪ. We no is go. Other way?”
They wanted him to flee? Why?
“What’s a zɪvɪnaɪ?”
“Eh…[Zɪvɪnaɪ]. What word is…? Hit thing. Fight.”
“[Warrior]? Those are [Warriors]?”
She nodded, and the little Goblin tugged on Seborn’s arm. She presented him with something, and he stared at the bluest little ceramic pot he’d ever seen in his life. It was quite beautiful with melded colors.
“Is more. You take, we go.”
She had a sack full of…pots? And clay? Seborn stared down at the Goblin girl, then he saw the other Goblins motioning him to turn around. He checked their ages, even the Hobs, and the ones on the ship. Then he groaned.
“You’re runaways. Erin!”
 
——
 
On the Isle of Goblins, the Goblin Lord, Izikere, had cracked one eye open. That was how seriously the island was taking the departure of the runaways.
They’d timed it well—the magical storm might have blown them far, but they’d just been about to sink when the other ship had appeared. The fact it had survived was interesting enough, but all had been concerned they were about to kill the Goblins.
That they hadn’t meant they’d live…but what had gotten the Goblin Lord to crack one eye open was the [Captain]. One of the [Shamans] who had enhanced everyone’s vision and hearing until they could focus on the distant altercation was frowning.
“Why does he keep screaming ‘Erin’?”
Her voice was loud as thunder even with the directed hearing spells, but she had to ask. Another [Shaman] scratched at his head.
“Must be bad seapeople curses. He’s not a [Slaver]. Not a bad smell. So…he’ll turn the children back. We should give him something as thanks.”
Definitely. What other outcome could there be? Everyone nodded. They had been worried for the young Goblins’ sakes when they had fled the island. It happened now and then. Every Goblin learned warfare, and this group had not wanted to. They’d smuggled a scrying orb they’d traded for and stared at the world and that Goblin Chieftain and dreamed of more.
That was not the role of the Goblins here. They resettled continents, rebuilt tribes. They were warriors—even if their talents lay elsewhere, like the little [Potter] whom even Greydath had remarked upon in his visit.
The group would not be punished much, and the foreigners thanked. Maybe even with repairs to their ship, which seemed a bit pancaked. That was the plan…right up until the other ship turned around.
“Uh. What is he doing?”
“He’s fleeing. Why? Did they hold him hostage? Or threaten him? Or lie…?”
The [Shamans] began panicking. They started casting spells, but they were out of range, and their own ships had already set forth on their own voyages; this was a fishing ship not meant for pursuit!
“Goblin Lord! Can you stop them?”
One appealed to Izikere. The Goblin Lord watched the ship with its new crew departing as the Drowned Man Captain took the helm. He was swearing and shouting at the Goblins hugging him. She could hear him clearly.
“—off of me! I’m not doing this for charity, and there aren’t enough damn pots in the world to pay me! I’m just dropping you off, and you can find the Flooded Waters tribe on your own. You are not crew. Wrong word. Tissl, take the helm! How old are you lot, anyways?”
She cracked a smile as she sat still, moss growing up her legs. The Goblin Lord could have stopped that vessel with a spell, but she remembered Greydath’s argument. The Drowned Man spoke a Goblinfriend’s name. So, she decided to let them seek a different fate even as the Goblins around her argued and fretted.
The world was changing. Besides—Izikere closed her eyes.
Between that sword and the armor the half-Elf was wearing, it seemed like a fun ship to be on.
Thus, Seborn Sailwinds and his new crew sailed onwards as the Goblin ship behind them gave chase, then turned back. His first act as the Goblins scrambled over the ship, repairing it with pieces of their ship and familiarizing themselves with their new home, was to have an altar built.
Just a few planks of wood. A hanging bar above it where you could tie things. He found a bit of twine and a piece of plankwood no good to anyone and scrawled on it in ink. They’d have to get a statuette or just a Mage Picture later. Before the curious Goblin’s eyes, he hung up the prayer, or perhaps message.
The shrine had ‘Erin Solstice’ on it in lieu of a statue. The missive read:
 
I’m getting really sick of this shit. I appreciate us not dying in the storm, but one more thing like this and I’m going to poison your drinks the next time we meet.
—Seborn
 
Then he took the wheel, and when no one was looking, he smiled ruefully.
A Drowned Man had a strange team with Goblins in it as he went on his adventures.
It wouldn’t be the first time.

Interlude - The 7th Hive (2026-03-14)

They were the 7th Hive of the Antinium of Izril. What that meant was, well, you got used to the dying.
It wasn’t like any other Hive was better, of course. Antinium died every day. So did Gnolls, Drakes, Humans…but they died differently. People mourned them, buried them, and wept for the dead. The fallen of other species had families, and you had a sense it bothered people a bit.
For the 7th Hive…it felt like every day at least someone died.
Now, that wasn’t strictly true, but the fact that Xrn, the Small Queen, was open about the numbers put it in perspective.
The High Passes had been bad. Not bad in terms of the overall scope of the smallest and newest Hive led by Xrn, a roving mercenary force. Proportionally, it wasn’t horrendous at all.
Just…dozens of deaths. A hundred in one bad engagement with a swarm of crystal-things with fake shells. They resembled beautiful crystals from afar, but they were actually just calcified spit. And the crystal roaches scuttling with their shells came with biting teeth that tore through armor and flesh and they swarmed over you. But mostly—
 
Company 15, Squad 9 — Engagement with a Passmaw on sentry duty. Three dead, seven wounded.
Company 24, Squad 2 — Avalanche. One Worker dead.
Company 66, Squad 4 — Lava Slimes. Two dead, eight wounded. Five to be rotated to Free Hive for limb regeneration.
 
Numbers like that. Each one was too much. But again, proportionally to the size of the 7th Hive and their ability to replenish their numbers, this was fine.
It was great, if you contextualized it as an entire Antinium Hive trying to clear the High Passes, a literal Death Zone. This job for Magnolia Reinhart probably killed less Antinium than the Free Hive lost daily when the dungeon was active. At least, before Belgrade’s traps.
It was just…Crusader 53 didn’t like seeing the numbers. He didn’t want to know, and that was a terrible thing, wasn’t it? But he was no leader.
Just a soldier. Technically, his class was different than that. He’d been a [Crusader], then a [Maceman]. After the Meeting of Tribes and fighting in the High Passes, one of the higher-ups had promoted him to leading Squad 5. And the higher-up to the higher ups had decided that meant something.
He was now a [Sergeant of the Unrelenting Hammer], which sounded very good. Level 32. Highest-levelled in his squad. 3rd highest in the army—well, until recently. And that included Xrn.
Crusader 53 had lived a charmed life. Just ask anyone. He’d see the new guys (or girls; they kept showing up from the Free Hive these days) troop into camp, and someone would point him out. Sometimes they’d come over to introduce themselves. Sometimes they had a voice, even the Soldiers.
But they acted like he was an important person, even if they were Armored Antinium, Silent Antinium, or whatever. Because he had been there when Liscor’s 2nd Army had been founded.
He’d been Crusader 51’s friend. Crusader 53 had not only fought through the Liscor-Hectval war, but he’d also battled the Eater Goats and Gargoyles at Orefell. Lots of [Crusaders] could boast of that, though, and they did these days.
But Squad 5, Company 3, was one of the two groups with the dubious ‘honor’ of having fought at the Meeting of Tribes, thanks to Not-Erin summoning them to fight the Drakes. The only other group who could boast of that was the Beriad, and only a few of those poor, honorable bastards had come back.
So in a way, Crusader 53 got it. But he was lucky, not braver or more special. True, he was good with a mace. Calruz himself had said he was talented, but a lot of brilliant [Crusaders] had died due to bad luck or just being at the front of an assault. It was all luck and chance. Someday, he was sure, he’d bite the dust and go to see if Heaven was real.
…He supposed he wasn’t filled with the same zeal and passion he used to have. That was why his [Crusader] class had been consolidated into his new class. He only joined the morning prayers sometimes, and he didn’t have a great foe to fight. Hectval had been beaten, though Liscor’s Army was still engaged with them.
He was just a [Soldier] now. An Antinium of the 7th Hive, following one of the Centenium as she led them across Izril in pursuit of gold and levels and a path only the Small Queen knew.
 
——
 
“When you think about it, we have the most shit-ass luck, don’t we?”
Crusader 57 brought it up one breakfast as they were sitting around the fire. The rest of Squad 5 was used to his complaints, so they barely looked up. Crusader 53 stopped trying to hammer a fork into a very, very hard piece of Gargoyle meat and glanced up.
They were eating whatever they had—Gargoyles since they’d beaten them in battle two days ago. It wasn’t good. But it beat the nutritional paste they carried as a backup. Antinium would do anything not to eat the paste. They’d dig up worms, make bark soup, kill Eater Goats—anything not to eat the paste.
Crusader 57 went on after no one engaged him.
“I’m just saying, think about it. We could have picked the lucky straw and been serving in Liscor’s 2nd Army under Strategos Olesm. I’m not saying it would be easier, fighting the Heckies, but it beats this. Or we could have been called back to the Free Hive. Dungeon monsters instead of the High Passes. Instead, we’re here, so every Wyvern and Passmaw can take a dump on us before we have to go hand-to-hand with Earth Elementals for some stuck-up [Lady].”
His diatribe was interrupted by Crusader 53 hucking a piece of Gargoyle ‘skin’ at him. It bounced off Crusader 57’s head, and he turned.
“Watch it, mother-kisser.”
“[I’m eating. Stop talking about excrement.]”
Crusader 53 couldn’t talk with his voice, but he did know how to hand-sign in Mrsha-speak. Most of the army picked it up within days, even the newbies. Crusader 57 searched around for something to throw, then shrugged.
“All I’m saying is why us? Why Squad 5? Well, there’s my answer. We’re too badass.”
He shook his head sadly. Crusader 53 debated throwing something else, but it was sort of true. Squad 5 had been one of the groups Olesm had fought to hold onto, but the Small Queen had insisted her new Hive have some veterans, and, well…
One did not argue with Xrn. They could see her this morning, as ever. Unlike Klbkch, she didn’t disappear, and she wasn’t as strict as he was. Not in the same way.
She was just scary as hell.
Her new body was cracked and emitting magical light. It looked vaguely like the old one, but it was brown, and less beautiful and just—inferior. It was in every way. Xrn often floated around, levitating a magical staff with her, and her eyes had that bright multicolored glow…too-bright, a symptom of a body unable to contain her power. Headsnatcher had nearly killed her; that woman, Kaligma had finished the job. Now, she was ten levels lower, and still—she was proof of what she was.
True Antinium.
Crusader 53 had heard the rumors, heard the stories, and part of him had wondered if Klbkch, Wrymvr the Deathless (whom he’d never met and hoped never to), and Xrn were really all that special. After all, the Free Antinium had made Pawn the Priest, Garry the Chef, Belgrade the Trapmaster, Anand the Strategist, and Bird the Bird.
Legends all. Iconic. Crusader 53 wasn’t spit compared to the original Chess Club members. Surely they were close to Xrn or Klbkch, right?
…No. Xrn’s current predicament was proof the stories about her were true. The Antinium body they all shared wasn’t even capable of containing her after she’d lost ten levels.
For that reason, they followed her. And because she was a Queen and you had to follow a Queen, of course. Privately, Crusader 53 had been relieved not to be reassigned to the Free Hive. Obviously he wouldn’t have minded less action or city life, but he’d wondered if he could just go back to marching around the dark hive, just…obeying.
Up here, he fought monsters, had to dig latrines, marched, and listened to Crusader 57’s grousing. But you know what made up for that?
Pay.
Clinky, shiny coins. Copper, silver, and rarely, gold. You saved each gold coin you had—the newbies sometimes didn’t get how much they were worth and would trade them for a piece of meat or lose them gambling.
You’d see them process how much they’d lost and sit facing a wall or snap a bit—it had caused a few problems. These days, if Crusader 53 saw someone like the Shellys trying to roll some newbies out of their pay, he’d go over and tell them to knock it off or tap a few heads with his mace.
Believe it or not, it amused Xrn greatly to learn that her [Soldiers] were gambling, fighting, or concerned with money at all. Crusader 53 knew that because as a [Sergeant], he was part of her command structure.
She had organized the 7th Hive into a very simple formula based off of Olesm’s army. 7th Hive was divided into companies. 77 companies. And each company—aside from Company 77—had ten Squads.
So you added up to 7,777 Antinium. Why? Well, because it was ‘7th Hive’. Xrn had chosen the number, and it had stuck. It was weird, but she was weird.
As a [Sergeant], and as Squad 5’s leader, Crusader 53 was part of the staff meetings. Each [Company] had a [Captain] if they were lucky—a mere [Leader] or the highest-level [Crusader] if not. Levels and organization were all over the place. Xrn didn’t care.
“What works will endure. You are Antinium. You do not require the same organization as a regular army.”
“What if we do at a certain point to maintain optimal efficiency, Small Queen?”
That had come from Company 5’s leader, [Captain] Gormless. It used to be that Tersk would be in charge.
Tersk was dead. Another casualty of the Winter Solstice.
They’d lost Tersk and Pivr, the traitor at the Solstice. Artur, their [Banner Commander], had gone back to 2nd Army. Embraim had become a [Knight] and fallen; his company was part of 2nd Army. The Beriad had split. Half for Calruz, half for 7th Army. Belgrade was with Olesm, and Archer B12, their [Avenger], had stayed with Liscor’s Army to kill more Heckies.
So, really, aside from the Beriad, 7th Army had a lot of the new guys. Some [Templars], some old faces—Captain Gormless was one of them.
He was a former [Crusader] as well, but he’d decided to get a name when he went back to Liscor. Unfortunately, he hadn’t had a dictionary when he decided ‘Gormless’ had a ring to it, and it had stuck. He’d tried to change his name three times, but everyone called him Gormless.
Gormless and Crusader 53 were the only two who really gave Xrn any backtalk. No one else dared. Especially if she was annoyed at the moment, like now. She’d turned her head to Gormless as the others drew back, Silent Antinium rasping their claws together nervously, Flying Antinium fanning their wings, Armored Antinium shrinking back into their armor, and had spoken calmly.
“If such a moment comes to pass, I will learn and implement such organization, Captain. We return to clearing the High Passes. I will oversee Company 43 today.”
And that was that. They got back to work killing monsters. Squad 5 didn’t lose any members, even when it got hairy. They were pretty high-level. Pretty experienced. But the new guys…
Crusader 53 read the daily casualty lists. And he started to…not get sick of them, but sort of avoid the new recruits who came in. He didn’t want to get to know them, because they were the likeliest to end up dead.
 
——
 
“Watch it, newbies! Move it or lose it!”
Crusader 57’s mandibles never stopped clacking, even in battle. Squad 5 was running, charging a giant centipede emerging from the ground. They nearly knocked a new squad of rookies from the Grand Hive over. The poor Workers and Soldiers had spears and refurbished armor from other [Soldiers] issued to them, but despite the so-called ‘Antinium unity’ everyone said they had, they looked like rookies to Crusader 53.
Oh, they could fight, but they had no instincts. For instance, when the giant centipede tensed and opened its mandibles, the entirety of Squad 5 dodged left. It wasn’t group-think or a Queen leading them. Just battle experience.
The venom hit the ground, and Crusader 53 surged past the new squads to begin cracking the centipede’s shell with his mace. The Dragonbone Mace let out thunderous discharges of lightning. Red lightning; it never hurt Squad 5, but it could get distracting.
The plus side was that the mace could blow off even giant legs of the centipede with ease. Once they’d cracked its shell, Crusader 57 inserted his zweihander into the shell and spoke.
“[Rupture Point]…and boom!”
The explosion of flesh and green blood coated Crusader 53 as he dodged back. The centipede writhed as the other squads finally caught up and began to stab. Crusader 53 grabbed a Worker stabbing at the centipede’s shell and pointed.
“[Underbelly. Hit it.]”
The newbie didn’t even know Mrsha-speak yet, and Toni had to translate for Crusader 53. They shook their heads as they watched the new guys fighting.
 
Company 3, Squad 6 — Centipede attack. One dead.
 
Caught when the centipede had emerged and had torn them apart on the spot. Even when things went well…someone died.
 
——
 
Captain Gormless was doing the paperwork that evening. It wasn’t much; they just wrote it down for Xrn in a book. She’d relay the news to the Queens. Gormless offered Crusader 53 the quill adapted for their Soldier hands.
“You want to try, 53? You could make [Captain] easy. Or maybe even [Commander]. You could take over an entire battalion.”
Crusader 53 shook his head.
“[Don’t want to. I’m no leader.]”
He was barely a [Sergeant]. He just knew how to fight, and Squad 5 was a unit he could trust. Gormless scratched his head with the quill and got ink on his carapace, which he’d daubed white and green in places. He cursed.
“Damn. Well, that makes fifty dead so far. Some poor idiots walked straight into an Eater Goat ambush.”
“[Which company?]”
“58.”
The news didn’t hurt Crusader 53 like it should. He’d buried too many friends. He didn’t know the 58th. So he just sat there as Gormless wrote in the book, then closed it.
“[Where will the new guys come from? The Free Hive?]”
“Nope. I think it’s…Silent this time. So new girls, unless it’s just regular Soldiers or Workers.”
The scythe-armed Silent Antinium specialists were a deadly lot. Maybe they’d live longer…though they tended to have ego issues. Company 1 was all Silent Antinium, and they thought they were hot stuff. Right up until they tried to cut something like an Earth Elemental and found their scythe-arms weren’t perfect for all situations, that was.
In fact, one of them was approaching for her own report with a Worker who could write for her. Captain Gormless straightened and put his helmet on his head. He tried to lean against Crusader 53, crossing all four arms.
“Oh, Prognugator Maev. Evening.”
“Gormless.”
“That’s what they call me, ha-ha! Crusader 53 and I were just saying it’d be nice to have more of your Hive over. How was the fighting?”
“Four dead.”
The Silent Antinium Prognugator didn’t go for speaking much. She scuttled forwards as the Worker wrote. Gormless hesitated.
“O-oh. Was it a bad run-in?”
“Crelers.”
Crusader 53 winced. Gormless’ mandibles worked.
“I’m sorry to hear that. But you’re looking sharp as ever! Would you care to get a drink later?”
“No. Bye.”
Gormless sagged as Maev scuttled off, camouflaging her chitin so she appeared almost invisible unless you knew where to look. She joined a section of oddly-shimmering ground where Silent Antinium were relaxing.
“She was having a rough day. But you saw she remembered my name, right, 53? You don’t think she’s seeing any other company commanders, do you?”
Crusader 53 patted Gormless on the shoulder and made his escape before the [Captain] could start speculating more ways to impress Prognugator Maev. Crusader 53 didn’t go in for the relationships thing some Antinium were trying. As far as he was concerned, he’d read the Book of Carnal Intercourse, a How-To and Explainative Manual, an Updated Revision passed around by the soldiers, and it hadn’t done much for him.
That wasn’t the point, anyways.
 
——
 
The point was that the 7th Hive did not want for resources, be it personnel or equipment. As the Small Queen, Xrn, had formed her Hive without requesting permission from anyone. Even the Grand Queen listened to her, if grudgingly at times. When she gave orders, someone did it or she got intense.
Thus, her system was simple. The 7th Hive would always be 7,777 Antinium strong. If one died, they were replaced. Every Hive contributed to her Hive. Mostly, it meant regular Soldiers and Workers with specialists from the Flying and Silent Hives being exceptions. They even had a birther sac hidden in an undisclosed location that could generate Antinium, but Xrn said she had plans for that. So new members of the 7th Hive were from all the others.
Oh, and the Twisted Queen occasionally sent…well, after the first time one of them had exploded in battle, Xrn had told her to stick to regular Antinium. Apparently Wyrmvr had taken over and they were getting bog-standard Antinium now, which was good.
You learned a lot about the other Hives from the newbies. Crusader 53 wagered he knew more about the state of Antinium in Izril than almost anyone else in the world. Possibly more than the Queens themselves, because you got a ground-eye view from the other Antinium.
Mostly, what unified all but Free Antinium was that being a regular in the Hives sucked. Workers worked constantly, securing food, reinforcing tunnels, and Soldiers waited around to fight and die. Every time a newbie came to camp, they’d stare at the real food on offer and gobble it down or keep gazing at the sky. Crusader 53 envied them that.
The sky…could get old. He didn’t enjoy the bursts of rain anymore. Instead, he just thought he was sick of getting wet and having to clean his gear.
 
——
 
“Do you think the magic’s gone? It used to be I’d have given up all the dirt I had just to have a single flower.”
Crusader 57 was sitting up, staring at a little flower he’d picked out of the dry High Passes. Crusader 53 signed back.
“[No. Go to sleep.]”
“I think the magic’s gone. Now we’re old and jaded. Especially you, Crusader 53.”
“[Go kiss a mother.]”
 
——
 
The main thing that made Squad 5 one of the important groups was their ability to adapt. To understand that this was not a state of affairs that would continue forever.
For instance, when the 7th Hive finally completed their contract with Magnolia Reinhart, a lot of the companies panicked. They’d fought in the High Passes their entire careers. What came next?
Crusader 53 knew the feeling well. So he poked Crusader 57 until the Worker reluctantly stomped over to other companies and gave them a pep talk.
“Listen, you pack up your gear, make sure you don’t leave anything behind, and get ready to march. It’s going to be boring-as-dirt marching for a while. Then we’ll probably do some fighting. If we’re lucky, we’ll get something to actually spend our coins on! Just keep your helmets on and watch out for ambushes, got it?”
That was that. The companies stopped panicking and formed up. By the time Xrn floated towards them, she was pleased to see they had formed a huge column and were ready to go.
They didn’t march by numerical value, of course. Company 3 actually brought up the rear while Company 77 was smack dab in the middle of the column. That was just basic soldiering on Captain Gormless’ part.
You see, not all of 7th Hive was combat-focused. They were all combat-ready, since they were Antinium, but Xrn didn’t send Company 77 into the fight. They were all supporting elements; mostly Workers.
A camp needed people to set up tents, to cook or process food, repair armor, deliver messages, and so on. Even Antinium needed that, and given their reliance on gear, a good amount of 7th Hive were these supporting roles. Especially cooks. The Antinium wanted to not rely on their stocks of food paste. They’d do anything not to use those stocks.
Thus, because they were less likely to die and because you got to know your [Cook] well, Crusader 53 knew a lot of names in the support groups.
For instance—Chysl was their dedicated [Acolyte of Healing]. She had replaced Zimrah, who Olesm had fought to keep. A shame, because Zimrah was really good at healing—and cursing enemies to hell.
Chysl was mostly just mean. She was an Antinium Soldier, and her method of healing was to slap a gauze patch on anything that bled green.
“[Enhanced Bandage]. Stop getting cut up, would you, 53?”
She snapped as he winced; a Razorbeak attack as they were marching out of the High Passes had ripped his right vambrace off and let the damn bird savage his arm. He signed back, one-handed.
“[Can’t you heal anything faster?]”
“I’m out of [Prayers of Healing]. I’ll say a few words for your wounds tonight. Heaven bless your stupid injuries, etcetera, etcetera. Next!”
He had the distinct feeling her heart might not be in the entire faith-thing either. But then again, he’d caught her praying at night. She’d thrown things at him when she saw him watching.
Everyone had quirks. The longer you were an Antinium, the weirder you got, it felt. It was how you distinguished yourself from every other Antinium. Be it a feather in the cap or your own paint…
You wanted to be remembered. You didn’t want to be that Antinium even your own kind couldn’t tell apart. So the feather in the cap became two feathers because other Antinium were doing that. Then it became five.
Then you got Captain Peacock, who had so many feathers in his cap some said he was the second coming of Bird. Or you just developed a personality like Crusader 57—though truth be told, he was pretty hard to copy even if you tried.
Or you became a Kevin, one of the many ‘Kevins’, who had a jokester personality and got up to tricks. They were a plague if they got it in their heads to participate in some scam with a Shelly…but Crusader 53 didn’t want to say bad things about them.
He knew the original ‘Kevins’ had all died except for one. They were continuing a tradition. Keeping Kevin’s name alive, even if the newbies had never met him or didn’t even know about the inn.
“You don’t know about the inn? Hoo boy, grab onto your shells, because let me tell you—it ain’t that great. I saw the big woman herself. She’s smaller than they say, and her cooking’s okay, but I know the Goblin did all the work. It’s not that great.”
Crusader 57 was mouthing off to some newbies getting told about the important stuff, and all of Company 14 pelted him with dirt clods until he retreated. It was culture, Crusader 53 realized.
You had to know some things in the 7th Hive. If you didn’t, someone in your company would tell you. How to behave, why you needed to take care of your armor—what rust was, and why it sucked—what coins were.
Basic stuff no Antinium knew. Then, if you were alive for a few days, they’d tell you the bigger stuff. About what exactly Heaven was, not just that you got to go there. About the inn. About the original Chess Club members. What Xrn had used to look like. Then it was stories, like Squad 5’s adventures or the story of how it had all started with an [Innkeeper], an Antinium, a chessboard, and a dungeon.
The good and the bad.
 
——
 
Crusader 59-11 died.
It was a chance battle during one of their patrols to make sure the High Passes were cleared. Just bad luck; a Gargoyle Bossel threw a spear, and they had been maneuvering over treacherous ground, unable to take cover. When Crusader 53 had finished fighting, he’d turned.
He had a healing potion he’d been told was only for him, but if he used some of it—
The Worker was dead. Crusader 59-11 was one of the newest members of Squad 5. He was a 59-er. An ill-omened number. They’d lost more Crusader 59s than anyone else.
“Aw, damn it. You idiot. You idiot—I told you to dodge!”
Crusader 57 was kneeling there over the curled-up Worker. He didn’t weep; none of them could. Instead, he punched Crusader 59’s armor, then hammered a fist down until they pulled him back.
The first loss of Squad 5 the entire campaign. Crusader 53 felt it was his fault. If he’d noticed the Gargoyles standing there or told them to take cover…
Captain Gormless told him it wasn’t his fault, of course. But everyone knew that was Gargoyle droppings. It was the kind of thing you said. If someone was dying, you lied and told them they’d make it, that a [Healer] was on the way.
If someone died on your watch, you lied to the leader and said that it wasn’t their fault, that anyone could have made that mistake.
The lie was that you’d go back on break to Liscor and get to spend all that gold they saved up. That you’d…retire. Crusader 53 had been here from the start. He didn’t think any of them were going to make it, what, ten years? Twenty?
He was sitting there when Crusader 57 stomped over.
“Un-fucking-believable. This is Creler eggs. Crusader 53!”
If this wasn’t good, he was going to thump 57 once. Crusader 53 gazed up and saw the outraged Antinium pointing.
“We’ve already got a replacement for Crusader 59-11. Guess who—guess who—?”
Already? They must have had ‘excess’ Antinium waiting to be assigned. It wasn’t right. They hadn’t even buried Crusader 59-11, and they would. No turning him into paste. If they could have left him his armor…
He was in Heaven. He should be. Crusader 53 turned.
“[What’s the problem? They’re replacing 59. Leave them be.]”
“I know that. It’s—but it’s a fucking Flying Antinium.”
Crusader 57’s finger trembled as he pointed, and Crusader 53 rose as he saw a Flying Antinium, a huge Solder-type with gigantic wings, like a locust, standing there unmoving as the rest of Squad 5 watched it.
He hesitated…but Captain Gormless was not in charge of this. There was no help for it.
Crusader 53 lodged a complaint with the Small Queen.
 
——
 
She let him into her tent immediately. He stood there, very nervous, as she put the book she’d been reading aside.
“Speak, Crusader 53. What displeases you?”
Xrn listened, unmoving save for the pulsing colors coming out of her body, as he explained the problem as best he could.
“Ah. You are referring to the Flying Queen’s treachery at the Winter Solstice.”
He was glad she agreed what it was. He’d been there when the Flying Antinium betrayed their own, and it was still hard to believe she had done that. It was one of the reasons why the Flying Antinium companies were the fewest in number in the 7th Hive and why no one wanted one in their squad.
Xrn heard him out and nodded a few times.
“Your assessment of the Flying Queen is correct. She considered the gain to her Hive worth the betrayal of all those at the Winter Solstice. Her action was self-serving, though she has framed it as furthering our goals on Izril.”
Which were what? Killing all the Drakes and Gnolls? Crusader 53 had no idea what the Queens wanted, but Xrn continued.
“I have not accepted her pleas, but the Grand Queen has censured her Hive in various ways and let the matter lie. She believes we cannot lose another Queen. The Silent Queen has forgiven the Flying Queen in exchange for inspection of the new Antinium…and the apparent revival of Devrkr. I am in doubts it is him, as is Wrymvr, but it is his body—the Armored Queen and Free Queen do not forgive. But the clashes between Antinium have ceased. We cannot waste lives.”
There had been fighting? Crusader 53 didn’t know that or think it was good…but he was confused.
“[What about the Twisted Queen?]”
Xrn’s mandibles lowered into a scowl.
“Her mind is unknown to me. She is even more reclusive than before. Nor will Wyrmvr tell me what she is up to; he speaks for her, which is still disagreeable at times, but better than she often is. The fact remains: I require the support of all the Hives, and the Flying Queen’s forces are an asset I will not turn away.”
It was true, the leaping, bounding Flying Antinium were great scouts, even if they couldn’t last as long in a fight. But Crusader 53 just didn’t think…it was Squad 5. How were they supposed to incorporate a huge Flying Soldier into their formations?
Xrn tilted her head.
“Crusader 53. I have said it before. If a minority of Antinium level and survive, it is what I require. This answer disturbs you, but it is the only course I possess. Few Flying Antinium level given the distrust of other squads. Those under the command of a ‘veteran’ Antinium survive longer.”
This made sense, but even so—53 tried to protest.
“[Some Flying Antinium insist the Flying Queen can do nothing wrong. Those ones get into fights. If this Antinium does the same, Crusader 57 will attack them.]”
Most Free Antinium didn’t have much love for their Queen, frankly. The Free Queen was thought of as ‘good for giving Soldiers voices’ and a few more things, but a distant imperial force that sent them to their deaths for the good of the Hive.
Silent Antinium loved the Silent Queen, but they were made well. Flying Antinium had a fanaticism towards their Queen too, and Armored Antinium respected theirs—but once they were in 7th Hive long enough, most Antinium would acknowledge that they still had crummy lives. The Grand Queen’s Antinium especially. Once they stopped being terrified of anyone saying her name, most had no desire to ever return.
But if an Antinium stuck to their crossbows and insisted their Queen was perfect, that led to fights between Hives. And Crusader 57 was famous for picking fights without needing pretext.
Once again, Crusader 53 realized Xrn was listening to his meandering explanations without interrupting or getting mad. He’d heard Klbkch was far worse, but she just nodded.
“Your opinions match that of other Antinium I have questioned, Crusader 53. Yet I have two counterpoints. The first is that you must demonstrate Flying Antinium can work with other Antinium or else there will be discord. This is not the first time I have seen strife between Antinium. Queens do fight each other, very occasionally, when disagreements are beyond reconciliation, but normally the Unitasis Network resolves disputes. Still, that is the role of Centenium to adjudicate. However, once, in Rhir, variant Antinium made by Shaper Queens came into mass conflict.”
Wh—really? Crusader 53 was astounded, and he saw Xrn smile. She answered naturally.
“Of course. It was after the death of the First Queen, when the Hives were in disarray. So vast and sprawling was the True Antinium’s Hives that a Shaper Queen on the far edge of our borders might create one kind of Antinium and the War Queens and other Queens form different attitudes to those in other sections. Disunity, for all we could think together.”
Oh. Like how the 7th Hive was different from Painted Antinium and [Crusaders] and so on. Xrn nodded.
“It was far easier then, for we could share minds, but I have adjudicated disputes between Queens before. You will take a Flying Antinium as a member of your squad. As for your other complaint…their loyalty to the Flying Hive is not an issue in this case.”
She smiled for reasons he did not understand. Xrn gestured upwards towards the mountains and higher still.
“Do you recall when the ground shook and I informed 7th Hive to be ready for battle?”
How could he not? No one had known what was happening. They’d thought it was a super-monster, and Xrn herself had held her ground, saying there was something going on up in the skies. The rumbling had lasted for an hour, and then…
Well, between that and the pink comet they’d seen days before, and the flashes of light from above, they’d known something was going on before the moon cracked. But they hadn’t been part of it, whatever ‘it’ was.
Xrn’s voice was quiet, contemplative.
“We were not prepared for that battle. Nor was I close enough to be resurrected, should I have fallen. The magnitude was beyond what we could involve ourselves with. What I could affect—unless I had my old body and were among the Centenium of old.”
The longing in her tones made him feel for her. The Small Queen gazed down with frustration at her form, then turned to him. Her eyes glowed a subdued, rosy pink, and he felt like her true self was trapped in this mundane, brown shell.
“…There was an event. Flying Antinium joined some great stream of flying creatures, disobeying the Flying Queen’s will, to fight on behalf of a great, winged being known as a ‘Harpy’. The Flying Queen was furious. However, the survivors developed—unique traits. The Flying Queen has disavowed or disassembled many, leading to the other Queens to take them into their Hives. This Flying Soldier is one such.”
An Antinium who disobeyed their Queen? That was beyond what Crusader 53 expected. He realized he was out of objections. Xrn stood.
“Your conversation is not unwelcome, nor your objections, Crusaders 53. I wish to understand the Antinium who have joined my Hive. Do you have any more questions?”
He hesitated, but since he had already risked so much coming here—he knew all of Company 3 was staring at the tent. Thousands of Antinium, who whirled away when Xrn glanced at them through the opening.
“[Just two questions?]”
“Ask.”
Her smile was wide, but the magic in her was ceasing to pulse colors. Was she tired? Or bored? He saw her reaching for something, drinking it.
A healing potion. Then, Crusader 53 wondered how long their new Queen might last. But it just made his question more pressing, so he asked.
“[What is the purpose of the 7th Hive, Queen? Secondly—is there a possibility of Antinium earning leave?]”
“Leave?”
She didn’t know the term, so he clarified.
“[Time off. Vacations. Retirement?]”
The Small Queen’s head tilted, and then she understood. She turned, and Crusader 53 saw her float back to the map.
“The 7th Hive is moving south. Lady Magnolia Reinhart has concluded our contract and believes her people can keep the High Passes secure.”
Wait. They were done with the High Passes? Just like that? Some of the tension in Crusader 53 left him—which was replaced by confusion and more tension.
“[We’re still getting paid, though, right? And how are we done?]”
The monsters here were never-ending, and their Hive, combat-ready as it was with Xrn and Magnolia’s servants, had only fought for months. Xrn replied, amused.
“There is a finite amount of life even in this ‘death zone’, Crusader 53. Our efforts have created a gap in the ecological niche, here. Not the upper areas; the increasing battles against Passmaws and the like indicated our efforts were succeeding as we eliminated food sources. However, between the Eater Goat and Gargoyle rampage, our own efforts, and the battle between that Harpy and Goblin King, we have depopulated this region sufficiently.”
Sufficiently enough for Magnolia Reinhart to think her servants could handle the monsters. Xrn nodded as Crusader 53 took this in.
“Thus, we continue. You will be paid. Why would you not be? Though it shall not be ‘combat pay’. For now, we march south. Into Drake-held lands. I have declared our independence and offered cities the chance to bid for our services. We head to the New Lands in any case.”
We’re passing by Drake cities? Drake cities, who do not like Antinium? That sounded—very bad. Crusader 53 hoped that Companies 44 and Companies 13—the [Mage]-Antinium that Xrn personally trained—knew barrier spells. He shifted as Xrn continued, taking another sip of the potion. She inspected the glowing lines on her arms and hands.
“I have run out of time to wait. We three have been waiting too long. In denial of the situation. This opportunity Klbkchhezeim and the inn brought about is my chance. The goal of the 7th Hive is to level. At any cost. Level, until…I would ideally see the average level of every [Soldier] be above 40.”
…Good luck with that. Crusader 53 had a good idea of how possible that was, and he saw the battles she intended to throw them into. He felt that bad feeling in his stomach grow worse, but then Xrn turned.
“As for leave or time off, if it may be arranged, I will do so. But Drake lands will not allow such matters. Perhaps a reprieve from combat. And if we pass by a place that does not loathe Antinium, yes. As for retirement? An end to your duties is what you all would like, is that so?”
Yes. Just to dream of. Crusader 53 waited, knowing there was no such role for Antinium in all of Izril. Only Heaven. But that was such a bleak thought…the Small Queen surprised him again.
She nodded.
“It is not easy. But I will offer all of 7th Army this promise, Crusader 53. Fight. Level. Survive. Until this Hive, this force is ready, I will take you all across Izril. When you are of sufficient strength and experience, if the other Hives deliver what they should remember to do, if Klbkchhezeim is prepared and Wrymvr remembers what matters—or even if not—I will lead you to one last place. We shall all go home. Then you may rest.”
Her voice was so longing and her eyes flashed with such brilliance then that Crusader 53 had to shade his eyes. He believed, then, that she was telling the truth. Not all of it, but he understood what drove the Small Queen. He bowed and retreated to tell Squad 5 the news.
It only occurred to him afterwards, as the new member of the squad lay dozing under a blanket, that the ‘home’ the Small Queen thought of and the home he knew were not the same.
 
——
 
All this to say that when 7th Hive left the High Passes, they were, if not a cohesive army, then the beginnings of something different. Something new.
Not [Crusaders] on a mission to avenge or build Heaven. Nor [Soldiers] fighting with different species for Liscor. Nor just Antinium—a hodgepodge of the faithful, common [Soldiers], Antinium of their own Hives.
Mercenaries.
“They’re actually flying.”
Crusader 57 gazed at some of the ‘rebel’ Flying Antinium assigned to them. Who could actually, legitimately fly. They weren’t the best at it, but even Xrn was flying with them, scouting the way as they emerged from the High Passes and saw a green plateau below. A forest so vivid that Crusader 53 hoped there were good things to eat there.
Crusader 57 just kept staring at the Flying Antinium blessed by the Harpy Queen. Then he turned and kicked the huge shell of their new member.
“They can fly, and we just happen to be stuck with the one idiot who can’t fly. Ain’t that right, Wingsy?”
Wingsy didn’t answer, but Crusader 53 slapped the back of 57’s head in a rebuke. They had decided not to call her Crusader 59-12; she was instead ‘Wingsy’.
…Wingsy didn’t say much. They’d tried talking to her—most Flying Antinium were apparently female—in Mrsha-speak, but she just fanned her wings and ate food. Crusader 53 was worried she wouldn’t last long, without armor and being so big a target, but 53 was trying to set a good example.
So, that was how the 7th Hive finished their job for Magnolia Reinhart. The High Passes were not safe, but a foundation was being laid, and the majority of monsters had been cleared from the ground.
Certainly, the men and women with pointy teeth had used the route often enough, and the Knights of Solstice also had traversed south with more caravans and less fighting than anyone should expect.
They’d done something. What, exactly, Crusader 53 wasn’t sure about, but he’d gotten paid, and they were going south. He followed the Small Queen as she pointed, and after a moment, Crusader 57 sat on Wingsy’s back. When the Flying Antinium didn’t kick him off, he laughed.
“Hey, maybe the newbie isn’t so bad!”
“[Get off of her.]”
Crusader 53 kicked 57 off, and the swearing Worker leapt up, and Squad 5 was laughing, even the new member. Southwards they went as one of the first Antinium to head downstream pointed at some berry bushes and deer.
Food! There was a [Soldier]’s dream. Good enough for now.
The 7th Hive marched into the south of Izril, and no one at all panicked.
Certainly not every single Drake city who saw the army of Antinium coming their way.

10.59 T (2026-03-21)

She knew she looked like a mess. The Drake spat into the washbowl of white porcelain and saw phlegm and blood land in the water. It came out of her mouth, her nose, and when she stopped coughing up the Selphid Dust long enough to meet her eyes, she saw how bloodshot they were.
Burst capillaries bled like dying soldiers over yellowed ground. Her eyes had lost their regular color. Too much of the…the…King’s Draught? Sjerdenhal?
Something. Something was taking her eyes. Bad sign. She’d go blind in less than a week if she kept it up. The eyes would dry up and hollow out, and bugs would root around in them, even if they stayed connected to the face. She pictured a shaking Drake with maggots crawling out of his eye sockets, hands trembling as he begged for another drop of the Draught.
That was no illusion. Nor was the washbasin. That was a memory, and she was good at figuring out which was which, most of the time. Tessa stared at herself in the mirror again. Shriekblade gazed back, and both had the same thought.
“I look terrible.”
She knew it. She was thinner than before, and she had always been light for her height. She was—the Drake’s eyes stole downwards, and she saw blood running from her right arm. Bared scales, but no armor. Had someone attacked her? No…the scales were missing in a checkerboard pattern.
She must have pulled them off herself. The only way to make sure a needle got through scales. The flesh was puffy, and pockmarked underneath. The Drake ran her fingers over the injection sites and thought it again.
I have to stop. I’m pathetic. This is wrong. Bad. I’m killing myself and my body. No one will need me after this, not even Hekusha. Good thing…good thing I have an escape plan.
Always Have An Escape Plan. AHAEP. Good old Captain Groms. That was the trick. She’d get restored after this, and it’d reset her. Then—no drugs. Not for—a week. That was how you did it.
“After tonight, no drugs. Right. Then I’ll build up my body, get clean for a month, and—and finances.”
She felt at her bag of holding, and it wasn’t there. Had she lost it? Sold it? But she had her daggers, and that was alright. Tessa leaned on the washbasin again, relieved. Because she had a way out. That was the trick. She knew how bad it was, but she could save herself. Hekusha could save her body. And Tessa was going to do it, this time. She promised.
“I promise.”
She was fumbling something up to her lips. A little capsule filled with the pale, not-quite-gold liquid that looked like discolored piss. It stank the moment her claw breached the cover. King’s Draught was the foulest thing imaginable. A blind [Watchman] could tell you had it. But it tasted like—
Her head fell backwards, and she shuddered as it coursed through her veins. The second hit of it made the world wobble, and Tessa’s head turned left and right.
Around the washbasin and mirror was a hazy world where color, the floor and sky, dissolved into nothingness. That was how it worked. As she began to move, stepping away from the washbasin, it too dissolved, and she only saw what was right in front of her. Marble tiles, Hekusha’s palace. Blind, unable to hear anything not on top of her—chin raised, smiling with the pride of a king.
The highest feeling in the world. She swirled a cloak of her imagination around her and laughed. As her eyes bled yellow tears and she walked onwards, navigating the shifting world of colors with that uncanny instinct the Draught gave her. But the euphoria was already fading. It faded faster each time—so she was fumbling.
No more Draught? Something else. Something…she pulled out powders and vials, sorting through liquids, half-consumed capsules, trying to remember what did what. Higher. Ever-higher today. Nothing that dragged her down to reality.
The Drake was running, then, spilling the keys that led her out of this reality, sprinting as if she were trying to catch the fleeting joy in her body. She hit something and fell, crying out as the trove of her equipment spilled to the floor. Gathered it up—her adventurer’s tools. And she knew she was low, but it was okay.
She had Hekusha. An escape plan. Tomorrow…
Next week. She’d start next week. But she had an escape plan. There was always a way out. But she liked it down here.
She deserved it down here.
 
——
 
They told him the world was changing, and he knew it was. Change came for all men, and he feared it. Soon, it would knock upon the doors of his city. And it was his, his prison and fortress, his island of contemptible solitude, and he the warden and fool conjoined.
The world was changing so rapidly and greatly, but by the voices eternal—there was a comfort to living in Tenbault. Crowdcaller Merdon, the Named-rank adventurer, could see the New Lands rise, Archmages fly, and when he stood in the silent banquet hall and heard the panting, wheezing gasps from the addled Drake’s lungs as she scrabbled on the floor, licking at a spilled vial, he thought nothing would ever change.
A noblewoman—no, a woman with a rich dress—was backed into a corner, unwilling to edge around Tessa. Other ‘dignitaries’ come for the Healer’s favor were standing in the tableau, holding drinks. Servants backed up.
No one would go near Shriekblade. She was shaking, giggling as she rose, casting around and lifting her chin like royalty, mouth trailing that foul vapor. King’s Draught or something. He didn’t know how she kept getting it, even in Tenbault.
“Merdon. Merdon!”
Someone was hissing at him. One of Hekusha’s helpers, [Mana Conduit] Torbal. He wanted Merdon to get Shriekblade out of sight.
Crowdcaller Merdon downed his drink. He didn’t move. She was blind to the world, stumbling around the banquet hall, and almost heading back towards the bathrooms she’d emerged from. But even if you’d handed him an enchanted sword of [Bane], or a bow with an [Acidsplitter] arrow, he’d have told you to shove it up your own ass before taking a shot at her, even for a million gold coins.
Shriekblade never died. She never changed. She left and came back. She spiralled, and so long as he looked at her, he truly felt that dreadful relief in him, oozing down to his bones like piss soaking through his clothing.
The world would never change. Tenbault would not. Merdon raised his empty glass to the taut face of Hekusha, sitting behind her veils of floating cloth to keep her from the rest of the wretched world.
Her two greatest protectors, the legendary Healer. The city of miracles, Tenbault. Merdon said not a word as the murmuring rose, and Tessa stumbled past him. The Named-rank adventurer with a voice that had humbled Chalence, once said to be the youngest prodigy among his kind, stood there. Forty-seven years old. Old now. She was older too, but again, some things never changed.
We’ve done this forever, eh, Shriekblade? Who’ll go first? You or me?
This was the worst he’d ever seen of her, but she never died. Her head turned as she tripped, almost fell, going nearly horizontal, then catching herself with a leg sweeping around and a twirl, the grace of a genius. Hands going reflexively to the two daggers that were all she had left in the world besides her name and talents.
For a second, those eyes bleeding madness found his, and he shivered as she said:
“That’s not my name.”
They locked eyes as Merdon tensed, lips pursing, about to project a compressed shout, adrenaline flooding his veins. Had she read his—?
Then she turned and staggered on, and he stood there as meaningless conversation struck itself up in her wake, and a servant hurried forwards with a long-handled mop. The ‘noblewoman’ with the soiled cloak Tessa had thrown up on came forwards, smiling at him, and flirting with all the graces the Tonic of Charm could give her. He wondered how foully sick she was and whether it was contagious.
Merdon reached for another drink and met Hekusha’s simmering gaze. She jerked her head as her Veils of Deterge hovered around her, and he shrugged. She was so angry of late. What did she expect? Something to change?
In her city? He laughed at that, and his chuckle was like rich thunder. The greatest voice in Izril.
 
——
 
“It’s my fault, you know. Lay that upon my gravestone, old man. Of my sins, and I do confess they must be legion, that is one of my true and only regrets.”
The Dragonlord of Flames did not dignify that comment with a reply as he worked. For many reasons—he did not want to think of her gravestone. He did not want to imagine the sixteen year-old [Lady], all indignation at the state of the world and gentle heart, passing from this world like so many others.
And he disagreed that Magnolia Reinhart’s sins were that foul. When he looked up, he still had the image of the blonde-haired girl peering into his cave, wearing that black-and-green dress she hated so much.
—Then he blinked, and the woman was decades older, wearing an all-pink outfit and sitting in a chair as she watched him adjust a wheel with one claw, and he was out of his cave. The Brass Dragon had died. Come back to life. Lost his mind.
Been told the world was ending.
Again.
This time would be different, or so he felt. So, he gently placed another wheel in the air, anchoring it with a bit of solidified air, and began to resurrect the damaged chassis of the carriage from its stasis. Wood, so damaged and old it had begun to dissolve as the mana broke, needed re-enchanting. Too much for him to reconstruct, even with his powers…so he had to remake the entire chassis’ spellcraft and rebuild the carriage around that.
“Ironwood.”
He grunted, and someone spoke.
“Ah, we are lacking in that department, sir—”
“Fourth drawer, Giant’s cabinet. Ironwood.”
Someone dashed to the side and came back, swearing like a [Storm Sailor] as she hurled a huge log of it at him. He caught the heavy piece with magic and began to meld it into the carriage.
“Looks like Haelbrass for the fittings, and…I’m going to say Salazsarian Diamond for the windows. Good enough. We’ll fudge the rest. Giant’s cabinet, second drawer or something for the brass. I assume you have the diamonds somewhere, Magnolia.”
A tsk. But she didn’t get in the way as he continued his work. He was spending more than he normally would have on this, and she knew when he had to actually concentrate.
“One feels as though the windows are not what you should skimp on, old man.”
“I don’t do windows. Too fiddly. Every half-baked [Enchanter] and [Artisan] gets too precious with their windows. One-of-a-kind mixtures with crystal pulled from between a Crystal Elemental’s asscheeks blessed by a Unicorn dancing in the moonlight with a drop of Zesty Lemon. The windows will be fine. Sturdy, just not whatever they were originally made for.”
He heard a snort from Ressa. She appreciated it when he got pithy. Magnolia simply pouted. She wanted her carriage to be the best. And it would be! She walked around the floating vehicle he was literally remaking as if she were inspecting a vase for dust and he a Level 4 [Cleaner].
“This is Great-Great-Great Grandfather Corlitor’s best carriage, you know. It was a terrible ordeal for Reynold, getting it all the way here out of the family’s clutches. The only reason Regis never had it was because it was so big it couldn’t easily fit in his vaults—and so damaged even he couldn’t use it.”
“It’s fine. Serviceable.”
Her expression of outrage made him smile as he began melding the windows. He liked teasing her. This was, in fact, a carriage that would have been considered ‘good’ for royalty in any era. Far better than her old one.
Yep, this is going to take at least another hour. It was challenging, even for him, to remake. He sighed, but in truth, he relished this moment. Not the magic, but lying here next to her new mansion in the High Passes, talking with her.
Memories reclaimed. Never again would he be the mysterious Dragon and she the young [Lady] with a world to right. But now they were more equals, so he savored that. His mind flickered back to her first statement, and he replied.
“If Tenbault is your fault, then it is mine. Or do you mean only the Healer—what’s her name? Helluba? I was the fool you pestered into teaching her that spell.”
“Hekusha. And I insisted. I could have chosen better. I could have stopped her.”
“Hmm. It never works out right. She’d merely run to someone else. She was given power, and it revealed her soul. Was she always like this?”
“Possibly.”
“No.”
Magnolia and Teriarch turned, and they gazed at the woman who sat, stripped down to only her undershirt, smoking in one of the pink, upholstered chairs. Ressa. Not the silent [Assassin] street-tough girl she’d been, but not so different, even now. The [Lady] pursed her lips.
“Ressa, do you have an objection to your work clothes or something?”
“It’s hot.”
“It’s spring.”
“Fought a Lava Slime earlier this morning.”
“Ah, well…I suppose we could use some tea. Reynold?”
He came forwards with a teapot and cups, and Teriarch conjured Demsleth so he could have a sip. He still winced when he saw Magnolia being handed a literal pot of sugar, which she poured into her cup. Then he turned to Ressa.
“Was she better? This Hekusha? I don’t quite recall.”
The [Maid] shrugged.
“Sure. She and Magnolia were friends. New [Mage] just out of Wistram willing to put her magic to use in the name of the public good? Not bought by the rest of the family? That’s pretty damn good. One of your uncles offered to double her pay to switch over, remember, Magnolia?”
“Oh, that’s right. Dear Uncle Krallis. Though I don’t know if that was entirely her being loyal at the time. Didn’t he have a clause he snuck into his contracts that meant every servant had to sleep in bed with him?”
Teriarch stopped his mental magical work for a moment in pure distaste and outrage. Reynold had much the same reaction, but Ressa only cooly lifted another cigarette to her mouth.
“Yep. But she didn’t know that. Like I said, she was a good kid. Just got paid too much too fast. When she started building her mansion ‘nstead of teaching, that was the bad sign. I told you, but you didn’t want t’ hear it.”
Magnolia nodded simply.
“I recall being so busy taking charge of House Reinhart, and she did heal you, me, and our people so much. And became more resentful each time we called on her…it is no excuse. I should have set Tenbault to rights long ago, but I wished to stop being the executioner and judge. Now…I am simply ashamed.”
Another feeling the Dragon could empathise with. He nodded and blew out a stream of Dragonfire to purge some of the detritus his work was creating. It bathed the carriage in a stream of purifying blue flames, and the swirl of fire reached upwards, dissipating as Reynold stared up towards the High Passes.
They stood in the beginnings of a great project. A pass, still rough and unpaved, but a great foundation being laid by working servants. Hired Humans and even a few Drakes and Gnolls.
A bridge across this continent, even if it would look like a wall. Neither the Dragon nor [Lady] glanced at it. They were gazing at the future and past.
“I have to get going after this, Magnolia. The New Lands. I should send Demsleth ahead already. Too much mana, though. I might not check back for a week or two.”
“Quite alright just as long as you’re actually exercising your wings, old man. Not riding a magical spell.”
He coughed, then glared at her, embarrassed, but the fact that he was out of his cave and…doing things was more than either would have dreamed. But she needled him, a faint smile reappearing on her face.
“Changing the world?”
“In my ways. What about you?”
“What about me, old man? This is my project. I’m hardly likely to survive a return to the north, even if I cared to waste more blood trying to take the house back right now. Every single one of my family would join forces against me, and not even Aleieta herself could handle the viper’s den when it unites.”
“Wait for infighting, hit them with sticks one by one. Keep the [Assassins] off you long enough to get the most dangerous ones in line or in the grave. Got that, Reynold?”
Ressa snapped at him, and the [Combat Butler] bowed. What she didn’t say was the unspoken part.
If I die, that’s your job. Teriarch wondered what the man was feeling. He had lost legs and friends in service to Magnolia Reinhart, but he was a believer. She was good at finding those who believed…simply not in her allies, like the Healer. Teriarch glanced at Magnolia and tried to resist, but he had to. For old time’s sake, he nettled her a tiny bit.
“It seems to me, young lady, that you are making much of your helplessness and inaction. I grant you that you have House Reinhart against you, your grand Skill broken, even if it was to a great and noble cause. But the Magnolia I recall was even more adversely put-upon by her parents. Still, she managed to change Izril whereas you sit and drink your sordidly sugarly tea and whinge.”
She spat some tea out and glared at him.
“Old man, are your memories from another lifetime overriding your eyes? I’m building this and—”
She pointed at the huge blocks of stone being moved into place and hand-scribed with spells behind her, and Teriarch rumbled.
“Forgive me, Lady Magnolia Reinhart. A mere salamander of fire like myself has failed to see how diligently you toil daily. How many stones have you personally carried into place and enchanted? Ressa did but a paltry one hundred and five. You must have doubled her.”
Her mouth snapped close, and her forest-green eyes flashed ominously. However, Ressa cackled. Magnolia pursed her lips and began choosing her words carefully.
“The amount of effort I am expending in my own capital—social, economic, if not physical—is—”
“—not commensurate with one of Izril’s foremost [Ladies]. You could be doing more. Isn’t that what you always tell me?”
Ooh. Some of the servants, including Ressga watching from the sides with snacks and other provisions ready, were enjoying this. Magnolia reddened, but again, it was the outrage of familiarity, not true…okay, there was probably some real anger in her as she snapped back.
“Elucidate your comments, old man. Do you suggest I ride north or south and galvanize the Drakes or my kinsfolk, who love me?”
He was enjoying this and blew some flames over his claws and used the burnished bronze to polish his scales. They were regrowing, and he still had patchy parts all over. Plenty of wounds on top of his old ones, but the flame trick left them lustrous and bright. He’d forgotten how much of his old powers he’d left behind in his age. Reminded of that, he began to do pressups as he took measured breaths while working on the carriage.
“What—I—mean—is—”
“Old man, stop trying to look good and keep casting or you’ll explode my carriage and die of a heart attack.”
Embarrassed, he had to stop and continue casting. Teriarch coughed smoke into a fist, then continued.
“Why, <Quests>, Magnolia. Here we have an entirely new resource unknown to the totality of our existence, and I note so little of it being used. Some to great effect in other continents—did you see the Quarass’ work in Helios? Very tidy. And you yourself used to be splendid at making splashes wherever you went, even when your father was the House’s head. But instead, you sit when you could be in five places at once.”
“He’s got you there, Mags. Even the [Baker]’s faster’n you. He’s strafing the north and about to hit them in the south, and you’re just camping here, sipping tea.”
Ressa laughed, and Magnolia reddened. Then her cheeks stopped flushing, and she stood there, blank-faced. Thinking over their points and nodding. Accepting they might be right. Her eyes flickered, and she came up with an idea so fast it scared Teriarch. Her lips quirked with that aggravating smile so many enemies and allies had come to dread, because it meant she had a plan only she knew. Then she turned to Ressa because a Reinhart never left an insult unreplied to.
“You are absolutely right, Ressa. In light of this sterling reminder of my unused talents…I appoint you to oversee the committee helping our good [Baker]. Take Reynold, will you?”
“What? I don’t need to do that! It’s hundreds of miles, and we already have people in position—”
Ressa sat up, cursing, and Magnolia smiled sweetly at her.
“We must push ourselves, Ressa. And some time in the field is good for you. What if they sent a Face?”
“The Walled Cities are too cheap for—”
Ressa was already casting around, and Teriarch coughed.
“You can use the carriage when it’s done. It’s going smoothly. So you have a plan?”
“Something to show you that you’re not the only one who can make a splash, exiled or not, old man. Shall we wager on who can do more for Izril?”
She had a gleam in her eyes that he feared, because it might mean she put herself in danger, but the Dragonlord just smiled.
“You’d wager against my capabilities?”
“Certainly if it’s your actions alone, old man. Not the Order of Haegris, what money does for us, or connections. We ourselves. Put some real Relics on the line.”
He hesitated. Then bluffed.
“You don’t have enough to match my smallest bid—”
“I’ll bet you the Crown of Flowers. And a <Mythical Quest> upon it.”
Ooh. Ressga and the other servants gasped as he went still. Magnolia’s eyes were glinting now, with real intrigue. The Dragonlord froze, but he was a being of pride and myth and flame. There was no option, and he growled.
“Only the Crown of Flowers, brat? Up your wager and you have a deal.”
Who fell for whose trap? Neither one might know, but then they were hashing out the terms of the wager, and Magnolia was formulating the <Quest>’s terms. Teriarch muttered at her.
“Unless you gained some kind of power I don’t recall, you can’t post <Quests>, though?”
She hesitated, tapping her lips.
“Yes…technically I count as enough of a leader to do so. [Guildmasters], [Innkeepers], and a number of those with leadership or ruling classes can post <Quests>. But it doesn’t work on myself. I should do something with <Quests>, but I was rather hoping Erin would demonstrate a few. Alas. I rather fancy we should prevail upon Larracel the Haven for this. I trust Demsleth could do it? He can’t resist a good meal, and I imagine he’ll be peckish in the wilderness without a bowl of mustard sauce five seconds away.”
He glowered at her, but agreed to take the terms of the deal to her. And that…was that. After a while, they went back to finishing the carriage and waited. Teriarch held as long as he could as she sipped tea, smiling and writing down notes she handed to Ressga—preparation for her work. He tried to see what she was writing with spells, but she’d warded the memos, drat her. At last, he coughed.
“You wouldn’t happen to wish to elucidate some of your actions? Just in case we end up fouling each other in the field?”
A sweet smile.
“If we run into each other, I imagine we will cooperate or foul each other as we must, old man.”
“Er, naturally, naturally. But where…?”
“Oh, I imagine a Dragonlord of Flames already knows every action I’ve taken. Anything less would imply he is being outwitted by a mere chit of a girl.”
“You brat. I’m remaking your carriage and I died and this is the thanks I get?”
He roared at her, and she pointed a finger at him.
“You only get to use dying once, Teriarch. Any more than that is crass!”
“Says whom?”
“Yourself!”
“Oh. Er, well—”
“And I note your counterpart has been sleeping around so prolifically in Wistram he has developed a reputation for it. I fear for Miss Griffin, and I trust you were behaving yourself around her, memory loss or not?”
Teriarch began spluttering as his chest heated up with embarrassment.
“You can’t blame me for—that deranged half-Elf is entirely different from me, even with the core memories. Clearly, he took a few blows to the head on top of—of course I never touched—is she in a relationship with that Veltras fellow or not?”
Magnolia made a face and dribbled tea back into her cup.
“Teriarch, do not make me imagine it. I cannot even see…are you sure your [Geas] didn’t addle her brain?”
“Yes! 99.6% sure. I, ah, I could analyze her next time we meet. Listen to me, girl. You have to admit from an impartial standpoint he has prestige, a rather high degree of martial fitness, handsomeness in that classical Veltrasian way—”
She was staring up at him with an expression that said ‘I really don’t want you to tell me what is attractive about Tyrion Veltras’. Magnolia handed her cup off to Ressga and spoke.
“The blood of innocents on his thoughtless hands?”
“Yes, a quintessential cup of attractiveness for young women! And young men. Alright, the coach is nearly ready.”
Ressa had come stomping back with a bandolier of weapons over one shoulder and, again, no maid’s outfit. She pointedly blew a plume of smoke out as Magnolia eyed her, and Reynold watched the carriage descending. Teriarch smiled.
Marvellous work if he said so himself. This carriage was actually bigger than Magnolia’s old one, and it had a far larger driver’s section with actual armor shielding Reynold. Even the spacing of the reins was meant for horses far larger than normal.
“Note the uneven sectioning of each animal? I’ll wager they were meant for Bicorns or some other magical monster.”
“Hmm. Corusdeer, I think. Greater variants. They were a terror on the roads.”
Magnolia inspected the black-and-green pattern that was not nearly as garish as you might imagine. At night, the pattern of snake-flowers would probably appear to writhe at high speeds.
Obviously, it was a bit too much in the classic Evil Empire genre of construction for Teriarch’s tastes, but dead gods, you had to admire the lines on the vehicle. One curling strut, like a biting viper, was cooling from his magic, and he buffed it with the tip of his wings until it shone. Reynold’s eyes were lighting up with delight; he could tell what a specimen this vehicle was, and Teriarch himself had to sigh.
“Reinharts love their carriages. I did fine work on this, if I may say so myself. Would you like to take it for a test drive? I’ll need to enchant some [Spectral Horses] since I doubt you have any yourself.”
“I think it will be good to take Ressa to her destinations. What enchantments do I have?”
Magnolia paced around it as Teriarch began to rattle off spells.
“All the standards. [Soundless Wheels], [Sustained Invisibility]—not greater; it just drains too much mana. A few splendid ones; I’ll make a list. [Scythes of Chariel], utterly classic—”
“Most will take up too much magic. Recharging it is such a pain, and I will not have it inoperable in the New Lands or anywhere the Drakes could pick it up. I may test a few while we’re with you, but I doubt we’ll do much with them.”
…Dead gods but she could sometimes, genuinely, take all the joy out of life. Ressa, Reynold, and Teriarch glared at Magnolia, who was utterly immune to their looks.
“None of you are paying for this coach’s upkeep! Yes, it is splendid work, old man. It just needs one alteration…”
He was huffily adding a bit of flair to the mana-horses.
“I don’t see what could possibly be added unless you want your own name or crest on it? A stylish fleur next to the handle? Ah, that would be good.”
He was conjuring a bit of paint when Magnolia smiled at him.
“Not precisely. Nor do I need to trouble you with this particular part. I do have experience here. Reynold? The cherry blossom pink, I think. Though I will take a few swatches.”
Teriarch’s mouth opened in horror as Reynold paused, a look like a man stabbed through the guts upon his face.
“Magnolia. You can’t—I know you have your foibles, but this is a work of art. It would be a crime to—the art! The state of history—”
 
——
 
Eighteen minutes later, a pink carriage and Goblin stood, dripping in the sunlight, and Teriarch was staring at the ground with Reynold. Ressa merely shrugged.
Pink. The magnificent lines, the subtle embellishments of House Reinhart’s sigils—pinkified. Not even shades of it, simply one color.
“Do stop sulking, Teriarch, and get aboard. Reynold, have a backup driver since you’re going with Ressa. And someone wash Ressga off?”
One of the Antinium [Butlers] hurried forwards, and Teriarch eyed the new members of Magnolia’s servants.
“You never did say what powers you got from hiring the new species.”
“No, I didn’t. Though I am quite happy with Ressga. She brings energy and joy back to our household, wouldn’t you say, Ressa?”
“Hmf.”
Magnolia leaned over to Demsleth as they got into the carriage.
“She rather likes Ressga, but she doesn’t know what to do with genuine affection.”
“Naturally, a crippling issue she’s suffered all her life. The Healer couldn’t cure that.”
Ressa threw an elbow that had Demsleth doubled over, then kicked Magnolia so hard the [Lady] swore a blue streak. Rather spitefully, Reynold had also popped Ressga in the driver’s seat. The dripping Goblin could drive—but Magnolia eyed the backup driver with considerable dismay as they began moving.
Then they were off, streaking south towards the New Lands. And Tenbault…Teriarch sat there, letting his main body rest and practice breathing exercises as they spoke in the carriage. He watched the world streaking by as Reynold got a feel for the carriage, then tapped at the window.
“I say, should we let those people on board?”
Magnolia’s lips twisted, and she hesitated as they flashed by a flinching group of—she coughed.
“They are Vampires, old man.”
He gave her a severe look.
“Children.”
“Children who could rip my head off. They’ve made it this far, and I very much doubt they’d enjoy my company. Suspicion might attach itself to them if their kinsfolk see them in my vehicle.”
Doubtless, she was right. Teriarch sighed and sat back. They rode onwards at increasing speeds, and Ressga was gasping and giggling from the front. Magnolia smiled despite herself as she watched the landscape blur behind her.
Reinharts did love their carriages. Teriarch contented himself with inspecting the inside of the carriage.
“You won’t make this pink, will you? It would be such a sin—”
“I’ll leave the upholstery alone, old man. But I’ll need a few blankets, maybe a couple of hampers, certainly some good pillows—we have that lovely throw from Drath, don’t we, Ressa?”
He changed the subject to avoid puking.
“Er, one question occurs, Magnolia. This Lord Krallis you spoke of. The one with the contracts. Whatever became of him…?”
Magnolia stopped conferring with Ressa about the redecorating of the carriage and smiled. Just once, a blade of a smile unlike her genial, if sometimes pressing demeanor. A blade like a guillotine’s edge.
“If I recall correctly, he died four years after that, almost to the day. Ressa?”
“Blade in his cereal bowl. Tragic.”
Ressa didn’t glance up from writing in her journal. But Teriarch, Ressga, and Reynold were peering at her, and Teriarch had to ask…
“You mean in his cereal? Painful.”
“No, through the cereal bowl. As he raised it to drink the milk. Straight through the left nostril, through part of the brain, and then he drowned in his bowl. Tragic. Or so I was told. Took him three whole minutes to die.”
“Terrible.”
Magnolia agreed, and Teriarch sat back.
“Well, such is the fate of all poor men in a just world.”
I simply wish you did not have to be the hand of that morality. But she knew that, and so they sat in silence. Magnolia spoke after a few more minutes of riding.
“I do truly wish I could address Tenbault. I know it’s handled, but it is so embarrassing to have the young clean up after my faults. Especially the young women I dismissed as being completely superfluous to any change in this world.”
He smiled at her, then, in a grandfatherly way.
“Welcome to age, young woman.”
She groaned.
“I’m not old, old man. You are, both in spirit and age. I—oh, look, [Bandits].”
She pointed, and everyone twisted around to see a group of Drakes on horseback in the distance. Teriarch squinted.
“You’re very sure.”
“[Lady] aura. They reek of malice. Well, alarm. Oh, Reynold! Detour!”
He was already turning, and Teriarch recalled, too late, Magnolia’s fondness for a certain activity in her carriage. He was protesting.
“Magnolia, this is not how such carriages are meant to be used. I just made it—”
“This is exactly how Great-Great-Great Grandfather Corlitor would have wanted me to use it, Teriarch. Well, except that he’d have probably approved if I ran over commonfolk in general. Let me see, let me see…you know, it really struck me that you were right. I don’t change the world as much as I could, and I have grown complacent.”
Magnolia was fishing for the list of spells he’d written down, and she glanced up at him.
“…But in this, I like to think I made Izril different each and every time. Let me see. Oh—interesting. Reynold? Spin ninety degrees and activate ‘Trebuchet Mode’ at your convenience.”
“Er, naturally, Lady Reinhart.”
Teriarch was peering at the rapidly-approaching Drakes when he heard that. He twisted in his seat.
“What-mode? Let me see that. Which spell was—wait, that’s not a good idea. It doesn’t activate any magic, it just—”
Too late. The carriage, unfortunate [Bandits], and Dragonlord of Flames were introduced to one of Corlitor Reinhart’s favorite spells as Reynold spun the carriage until it was facing the bandits, hit the spell—and the magical horses and reins disengaged from the carriage. He and Ressga flinched as the front of the carriage shot down, engulfing them in armored ironwood, and Teriarch felt gravity anchor spells activating, pressing him into the seat. And then?
The carriage kept going. Only, the momentum of the sudden transition meant it was being hurled at speed—sideways—and so it flipped.
And hurtled through the air at the [Bandits] like a multi-ton stone thrown by, well…a trebuchet.
Hence the name. Gravity spells protected the people inside the carriage from being tossed around, but they did rotate multiple times as the carriage rolled over everything in its path. Only after eight turns did the magic pop it back onto its wheels and the driver’s compartment shielding retract to reveal a dizzy Ressga and Reynold.
And a lot of blood. Everyone began exiting the carriage, and Magnolia Reinhart wiped at some tea that had splashed all over her dress.
“Ah. Well. I think I will use that one in very specific circumstances, but you must admit, what style. Then again…I hope this has cleaning spells built in. Old man? Old man…”
She turned, and Demsleth staggered out of the carriage to empty the contents of his stomach. So did the poor Dragonlord’s actual body in the High Passes. Even if it was simply a copy of him, seeing through his eyes as the world rotated multiple times a second—
Magnolia patted him on the back. Then she glanced north.
“Back in the carriage in five, everyone. Ressa and Reynold have places to be. Oh, and Ressga?”
“Yes, Lady Reinhart?”
“I’ll drive on the way back.”
“Aw.”
 
——
 
At the same time as a Dragon was puking, an Antinium [Baker] was giving bread to the hungry and taking up the world’s attention. And, at the same time, unnoticed by almost all, an inn was preparing to go on a trip.
Preparing. A word not oft-used in conjunction with The Wandering Inn, but there it was. They had called for allies. Not in the expectation of great battle or loss, but for once, the opposite.
“Atten-shun, you miserable maggots! We are going to hit them here, here, and here! Each group has your orders. I don’t want a single casualty! No one gets hurt, everyone goes home, and we have a packed lunch! Any questions?”
Nanette had her boots on and a vest she’d hand-dyed to look like one of those Earth camouflage vests, though how exactly it was supposed to camouflage her no one had any idea. She had a helmet too, and she strutted back and forth in front of a blackboard as her guests sat there.
Rags’ tribe from Goblinhome. Grimalkin and Lady Pryde. Archmage Valeterisa, Montressa, Bezale, and Relc. Even a bemused Wall Lord Ilvriss and a grinning Nerul.
It felt like overkill.
It was overkill. Colfa was helping Lyonette and the staff pack; they had carriages loaded in Riverfarm, and so most people were simply hanging out enjoying the scene. Ishkr, Asgra, Peggy—the staff was going with the [Princess], and only Earlia’s team and some of the Calanferians were staying. Lyonette was fussing, of course, but a little Gnoll girl grabbed a basket out of her hands.
Mother, I’ll take that.
“Oh, thank you, sweetie. Do we have all our emergency potions? And the tonics?”
Lyonette reached for another hamper, but one of the servants dashed over and grabbed it. Xinthe bowed to the [Princess].
“Your H—Lady Lyonette, please rest!”
They ushered her to a chair as Lyonette grimaced, but she had winced when she was bending to pick up the basket. She sat, and her skin—cracked—slightly. Another servant was there in an instant with some makeup, and Dame Ushar spoke.
“We are ready to go in eight minutes, Your Highness. Emperor Godart has prepared a small escort for us as well.”
“Oh, good. Let’s let Nanette finish her fun, then.”
They watched as Nanette waved the little stick she was using to point at the board. Someone raised their hand.
“Question, eh, boss-girl?”
“That’s boss-witch to you! Go on?”
One of the Redfang warriors was pointing at the board where Nanette had posted several illustrations. Of Tessa, Hekusha, the city, Crowdcaller Merdon, and his Gold-rank team.
“You say hit them there, there, there, and that good. But what about there?”
Nanette pointed with the tip of her stick right between Merdon’s legs.
“Here?”
“Yah, is a good place to hit.”
Nanette circled the spot with some red chalk.
“Good idea. I want them hit here—any volunteers?”
The Redfangs all raised their claws, and Nerul laughed as Ilvriss shook his head.
“This isn’t a game. Tessa…we’ve let this go too long, Uncle. And this is a pair of Named-rank adventurers, and the Healer is famous and rich.”
The [Diplomat] patted Ilvriss on the shoulder.
“Nephew, life is made up of such regrets and ‘we should haves’. We have to make the best of it, sometimes. A bit of levity takes the edge off. We are going, so let’s fix our minds on that, eh? Miss Nanette! Had you considered hitting the Healer in the posterior?”
She pointed her stick at him.
“Good idea, soldier! Volunteers to put a boot up the Healer’s ass? I’ll take three…”
It was a joke from Nanette, but Lyonette would do just that if she had to. She kept pausing to stare northwards. Tessa—it wasn’t like they’d known her longest of all the guests.
It wasn’t like Lyonette even knew Tessa that well. And it certainly wasn’t like Tessa was the greatest asset that the inn had. Elia was nervously checking her bow as Bird counted her arrows. Tessa could be the greatest obstacle to helping Tessa.
But…Lyonette murmured as she pushed herself up.
“I am sick of leaving people behind. Living and the dead. Vaulont, any response from the Healer?”
“None, Miss Lyonette.”
He appeared, and she nodded.
“Then we are going. Captain Todi, Captain Earlia, hold the inn until we get back. Nanette, dear? It’s time.”
The girl fell silent and took off her helmet as she grew serious, and the people sitting there stood. Mrsha exhaled, Relc cracked his knuckles, and Montressa and Valeterisa winced at the sound. Wall Lord Ilvriss checked his sword and rose.
“May I?”
He offered an arm to Lyonette, inspecting the faint crack on her cheek, and she just smiled at him. He didn’t know where the wounds had come from, nor would she say. But when the Wall Lord turned, her two daughters were behind the [Princess], and the Vampiress swept forwards to hold the door open like royalty. Servants and staff followed Lyonette, and the bemused Sinew Magus, [Lady of Pride], and the other guests watched Lyonette as she walked slowly down the hall.
It was Pryde who grunted.
“I rarely see that.”
“What, exactly, my dear?”
Grimalkin got a glare from her as she turned her head and glowered at him from the bag over her head.
“Don’t ever call me that again. What I mean is…that. You don’t see it outside of House Ulta.”
She waved her hand at the procession. Grimalkin peered at it.
“So many species? Coordination?”
“No. Pride. They’re proud of her. Do you know how many [Ladies], [Lords], [Princesses], or [Princes] have the respect of those they lead?”
The Sinew Magus watched the [Princess] pass him by. He nodded to her as she passed, and he began to stretch.
“Let’s make a statistical spreadsheet instead of speaking anecdotally, but I like your hypothesis.”
It was her turn to roll her eyes. Then they were following the [Princess]. Joking, serious, moving.
Hoping they wouldn’t be too late.
 
——
 
Tenbault was known as the ‘City of Miracles’. The Healer’s city, where she could bring all but the dead back to health, or so it was claimed.
Only, no one called it that who actually came to Tenbault. It was always overcrowded, and the squatters’ camps could stretch for as much as a mile in any direction outside the city’s gates. The inside of the city was always overcrowded too, and there was constantly more trash than the [Cleaners] could keep up with.
It was a result of who came to the city. Supplicants hoping to win the lotteries for a healing that were taken daily, or important people who were willing to pay for a slot. After all, the Healer of Tenbault could only heal fourteen people a day if she had supporting spellcasters.
Twenty-two these days. She’d upgraded her magic. Merdon didn’t know what Hekusha had done, but after her kidnapping—and shouting at him and demanding more security she didn’t want to pay for—she’d done a lot of buying of magic.
There were these…wells. Literal wells of mana that captured it out of the air or somesuch. Like the Skills that [Mages] had. Merdon didn’t know; he was a [Warrior]-[Singer], and his old team, Orchestra, had never had a strong magical presence.
They had been a unique group of [Performer]-[Fighters] who needed no magic. One of the best teams of Izril. They had conquered Chalence, and he had made his fortune there. Squandered it…come to Tenbault and become the Healer’s bodyguard in exchange for handsome pay. He was seldom in danger, and if he could tolerate the lifestyle, it was a fine quasi-retirement. He’d lasted nearly twenty years like this. No one else had, even his ‘team’ of Gold-rankers, a hodge-podge of second-rates or impoverished adventurers he’d made into the security force of the city.
No one stayed long. Only Shriekblade came back. Tenbault was a miserable city. Only those in pain came here, and their desperation, their agony, seeped into the stones.
Everything cost too much in this city. Prices were high on food, bedding, and it was all aimed at getting the Healer’s attention. Bright clothing so she noticed you in the crowd, the right inns with tips on how to win the lottery or whom to bribe.
People…waiting. Waiting for months, years, or until they died for a miracle. Some had waited a decade. Those were the worst. They called out to Merdon when he walked the streets, preyed on newcomers for coin or out of spite.
Like parasites, eating and sucking the life out of newcomers to extend their own lifespans a while longer, bloated and writhing with disease or wounds, faces upturned to that mansion in the center of the city, the palace on a hill with white marble walls from which the Healer would descend to cure them.
Twenty-two a day. As many as a hundred new supplicants might come to Tenbault on a slow day. They would never, ever clear the backlog of patients here for Hekusha, but that, Merdon had observed, was how she liked it.
Each day, the lottery took part in the squares where you were given a slip of paper and your name was noted down in the ledgers, guarded by City Watch with huge clubs. Lots of people tried to mess with the rolls, so a Gold-ranker was assigned to each plaza. Five were chosen from the lotteries; five more from the Healer as she pointed out whom she decided to save.
The rest were ‘private’ healings for [Merchants], nobles, and the like. But it would be a lie to say that the lottery healings were free.
The price to be healed of any ailment, most wounds save limb loss, and anything else by the Healer of Tenbault was simple: a hundred gold coins. As little as twenty if she picked you out personally. The [Clerks] would take what they could get, and there was the Merchant’s Guild for loans…if you were picked, you could pretty much pay the price.
It was getting to be one of the twenty-two lucky souls each day that was the nightmare, and it used to be far fewer. Merdon remembered a time when it was only four. Four per day…
Dead gods. He was shaving in his sumptuous apartments that morning, his double-king bed unmade and messy, the balcony leading into the interior courtyard blowing in perfumed scents and some leaves from the damn trees in the courtyard. He rose at dawn, and he’d be addressing his ‘team’, the Healer’s Wards, at breakfast. They had a private training ground, eating hall, servants, and staff—anything to keep them from being in the city.
In the city, everyone would be begging for them to take word to the [Healer], from the rich to the poor. Charm skills, threats, pleas, offers for sex, money—yes, everyone wanted to be on that lottery.
After all, the [Merchants] and nobles didn’t want to pay quite as much as the Healer cost, so they’d stick around for months until desperation or whatever they were suffering from made them pay thousands of gold for her favor. Tens of thousands, sometimes, for an overnight healing.
The richer you were, the more trivial your complaint. Merdon, as Hekusha’s bodyguard, had to be with her whenever she was in danger, so he attended every healing she had to do. And had to see what she healed.
Nobles? It was almost always something like pustules on the groin, a rash of warts, or an injury turned into a disease that a healing potion or regular [Healers] couldn’t treat. Sometimes a real injury.
Commonfolk? Lots of variance. Diseases were common, but anything infectious got you exiled to the Plague Quarter—and you could not exit it. They still had access to the lottery, though, overseen by very unhappy people wearing enchanted masks and gear to keep them from joining the sick. Otherwise, it was malformed bones, an inability to breathe right—
Children. Merdon had learned not to look too closely at the supplicants. Children were the hardest for Hekusha. Because she cast [Restoration]; she couldn’t always heal something.
That was when he was needed and it got ugly. Hekusha had a lot of Skills devoted to making the mana-intensive, difficult spell easier to cast and more applicable.
[Normative Healing], [Reduced Mana Cost: Healing], [Idealized Restoration]—it meant that even if you were born with, say, some condition that made your blood bad and your limbs turn blue from lack of air or whatever one ailment he’d seen had been, she could restore someone to a ‘better’ outcome than they’d been born with. Even get it to stick, sometimes.
Other times, the [Restoration] just—failed. Or a month later they were back, screaming she’d tricked them.
Hence the [Clerks]. They would take you aside if you were chosen and ask you every question Hekusha had come up with. Trying to ensure that she didn’t fail. The most-hated group in the entire city were the [Clerks], the adventurers being the second-worst.
In the silence of the morning, Merdon heard the artificial recordings of harp music being piped through Hekusha’s palace. But his ear could tell it was a failing music spell. The quality of the enchantments diminishing, too echoing, and it hadn’t been a great performance either. His hearing was too good; he could hear the oppressive [Mass Silencing] spell around the mansion. And beyond it, even at dawn, the swell of voices.
They were chanting for her. Begging.
Praying.
The praying was new. He hated it. Merdon nicked himself with the edge of his straight razor and cursed as he glared at his thick jawline in the mirror. Scraggled brown hair not yet combed back with his expensive hair products hung over his bloodshot eyes. His armor stood on a rack behind him, enchanted plate, a mace and shield. Tessa standing in the corner staring at him. Not the greatest artifacts, but he only needed to be safe. His voice was his weapon, and he reached for a spray bottle to treat his throat with.
He was opening his mouth when his mind registered the invisible Drake, and he whirled.
“Tessa!”
His [Cone of Sound] attack blasted the spot where she was hiding and knocked her and everything in front of her flying. Merdon spun for his mace and shield, but the Named-rank adventurer merely slammed into a wall, fell down, and stared up at him.
Like a lifeless doll. Strings cut, mouth drooling, eyes yellowed from last night’s drugs. Merdon seized his weapons and slammed his helmet onto his head, never turning away from her.
“Get out! I warned you—get out of my rooms!”
No response. He cursed and then raised his voice.
“Servants? Servants!”
They came running as he projected his voice out of his rooms, then froze when they saw Shriekblade.
“A-Adventurer Merdon?”
“Get my armor out into the hallway. Shriekblade, get the hell up. We’re working, you shit-for-brains.”
He snarled at her. When she didn’t move, he kicked a pillow at her. It bounced off her face and landed there. He spoke to the servants.
“Get the armor into the hallway!”
“W-what should we do with—?”
“Don’t touch her. Just ignore her and let her go. Armor. Now!”
It took three of them to wrestle his armor into the hallway, and when Merdon directed his attention back to Tessa, he felt his heart palpitate.
The pillow was in shreds. Ripped up, cut to pieces. She still lay there, but the down pillow had been obliterated. Why?
It was obscuring her vision. She never, ever let anything obscure her lines of sight. If Merdon was the greatest voice in Izril, who could blast an army with sound and leave them deaf or send a Griffin flying with his voice—Shriekblade was the dagger-expert.
Not a [Rogue] who did traps. Not an [Assassin] with stealth. Just blades. She came at you and didn’t stop. She was all offence; the scars traced all over her black scales were proof of what it cost her. If they fought, Merdon would kill her if he saw her coming at range or he could hit her in a place where she couldn’t maneuver.
If she reached him, he died. They’d fought before, when she was so mad on drugs she thought he was a foe. She never attacked Hekusha, but the Healer had saved his life more than once from her blades and her from his crippling sound attacks.
Only when the servants had his armor in the hallway did Merdon back up to the door and slam it. He put a foot against it as he wrestled his armor on and shouted.
“Breakfast in five, Shriekblade! If you’re not there I’ll have the Healer eject you from the city!”
No response. He cursed and whirled on his heel. She was worse than normal, and she was never good when she came to Tenbault.
 
——
 
“Healer.”
“Merdon. I’m counting the month’s takes. Is it low? Why is it so low?”
Hekusha sat with her Veils of Deterge hovering around her private bedspread, a sanctum of chambers far larger than his. The veils were enchanted to keep plague or anything else away from her. It gave her a gauzy, enigmatic appearance since they shielded her from sight. Merdon pushed them aside, and she glared at them.
“If you damage—”
“Shriekblade was in my rooms this morning. She needs healing.”
A pause. Hekusha’s eyes flickered, and she stopped poking at the abacus and scroll floating in front of her on anti-gravity enchanted pedestals. She slipped into Sariantwool slippers and clapped her hands.
Her bed was a pool of silk and mattresses in a vast circle, a swimming pool of cloth. It had been faintly humming to Merdon’s ear, though he knew she could not hear it. The heating enchantment in the sheets deactivated, and in another chamber, he heard the clank of motion.
Her Cooking Golem from House Terland stirring to life. Hekusha spoke.
“Golem, Chandrarian breakfast. Surprise me. I healed her last week! I don’t have mana to waste.”
He grunted as she walked towards the privy and heard birds begin to sing. She pointedly closed the door, but he leaned against the wall and projected his voice. He could be heard anywhere in the city if he chose. And he could hear everything, despite doors and walls. He was used to it.
“She’s unstable. If you don’t heal her, she won’t work.”
“I should be getting more effort out of her.”
He didn’t respond to that. Time was that Hekusha wouldn’t have admitted Tessa without a lot of gold, but the times were changing.
“We need her. There’s that serial killer in the city.”
The door opened, and he recoiled from the stench. Hekusha’s voice was plaintive.
“Can’t you find him? I want him gone, Merdon!”
He retreated a dozen paces, growling.
“Whoever’s doing it—I don’t have tracking Skills, and neither do the team. Shriekblade is the only one.”
“Can’t you hire someone? The—the whatshername. The Drake.”
“A Watch Captain of another city? No. If you want [Rogues] or [Trackers]—it’ll cost a thousand gold per head.”
“A thousand?”
“To fight someone who’s beheaded at least sixty people in this city and cut a hole across this region? If they’re Level 40 or higher, it’ll be ten thousand per. Only Shriekblade is crazy enough to do it for less.”
“I suppose that’s worth the…fine. Send her to me. And I want your team to watch the lotteries! Someone keeps forging names onto it.”
“I’ll tell them.”
“I want it stopped, Merdon! It’s costing coin! We’re down 32% this month even with potions being out of stock! And some keep trying to pay in other currencies. Like that Terland…whatever it’s called.”
“Terland Tithel. You don’t take any?”
That surprised Merdon; he’d acquired fifty such coins in case they appreciated in value, but Hekusha gnawed on a fingernail, then grimaced; hers were painted, and she’d gotten a chip in her mouth.
“Ptuy. No! My Merchant’s Guild representative assures me they’re a passing fad, and it’s too complex…only gold. But between that and those fraudulent scrolls on the market—”
“From Liscor.”
Again, Hekusha was surprised, but Merdon was a Named-rank adventurer. He might not be active, but he kept abreast on this kind of thing. He had [Informants], bought news…he’d tried to get one of those scrolls, but they were like healing potions: far too expensive for him to buy just to test their effects. He was Hekusha’s bodyguard; he didn’t need one. The Healer muttered.
“Whatever they’re supposed to do is impossible. I wrote as much to the news channel, but they didn’t take my letter! There is no magical spell short of [Restoration] that can do what is being claimed. None.”
She was the authority on healing magic, so Merdon took that as the truth, but…he’d heard they worked.
“Could they be a Skill?”
“Hah! No. Maybe? There can’t be that many. Healing is not that easy. It’s just an excuse for people to try to pay less, anyways. But why is commerce so poor? Even with all that, we should be up, up—visitors are down, spending in Tenbault’s shops are down—”
She was the de-facto ruler of this city. There was a [Mayor] but Hekusha had a percentage of the city’s taxes and incomes from businesses. Merdon sighed.
“It’s the New Lands. People are spending for that. And with the Last Light’s lessons to [Healers]—”
He made a mistake. Hekusha’s voice rose into a half-scream.
“She’s a fraud! That damn Dullahan isn’t the real Last Light! She cuts people up and sews them together like Stitch-folk! Why would anyone go to her?”
“…Because she answers their letters and has a segment on television where she gives out medical advice for free? I heard lots of [Healers] are counterlevelling because of the lack of potions.”
Hekusha emerged from the bathroom after the magical bidet activated. Her face was pale with indignation. She chewed on her lip.
“Twenty…three today, not including Shriekblade. Have the [Mages] all report to me now. No, after breakfast. Where’s my [Promoter], Rigle?”
“Probably drunk and lying abed.”
“Send him to me, now. I want more [Bards] to advertise to the north and south. Maybe the Drakes…has anyone come back from the New Lands yet?”
“No. They’re probably dying there.”
“Well, some will be rich enough. What are you standing around for? Leave me to my breakfast, Merdon. Go, go!”
He went, growling orders at the servants. He wouldn’t have to see Hekusha for at least four hours. She would be a long time at breakfast and in her quarters; the lottery was at midday, and she wouldn’t bother to leave the mansion until then. In the meantime, he addressed the troops.
 
——
 
“Listen up.”
No one did, so Merdon raised his voice and slammed the butt of his mace on the table.
“Listen up.”
His voice filled the dining room where hungover adventurers, sixteen of them, were sitting, and it was so loud they winced and swore, but when they glared at him, his eyes made them shrink back.
Gold-ranks in the presence of true greatness. He counted them.
Debtors like Merge and Rave; outcasts like Pilgim, scratching at his scabs and eating them, lazy; Clarenessa was putting her head back down; or just here for a paycheck like Madriga and Anabeva.
The latter two seemed like they were mildly sick despite not having drunk. They’d leave soon. Their contract was up in a month, and he’d never see them again. Merdon wanted more adventurers like the two Gold-rankers. He could trust them not to be bribed. He took a breath as he glared at his plate of rich food prepared by a [Chef] with [Expert Cooking]; something fanciful involving goat’s cheese and salad drizzled with a vinegar.
“Listen up. The Healer is tired of people forging their names onto the rosters. I want eyes on the [Scribes] and the crowds. Double-fucking check the names that get selected before you call them in. Whoever it is can’t forge all the lists.”
“Got it, boss.”
Anabeva spoke into the flat silence, and someone sniggered.
“Goody two-shoes rookie.”
The [Ranger] half-turned and began to rise, but Merdon shot a compressed [Cone of Sound] at the speaker.
“Merge. Shut—up.”
The blast kicked the [Warrior] out of his chair and sent him flying across the room. Armor or not, levels or not, he landed, crying out, tumbling, reaching for his sword and swearing—when he saw Merdon watching him, he froze, raising his hands.
“Fucking—I was just—”
“I don’t have time for your shit, any of you!”
Merdon roared, and they flinched. He slammed the mace’s handle down again and glared as some of his breakfast landed in his lap. No one dared laugh. He spat.
“There’s the serial killer in the city. Unless you want to join the hunt for that? I didn’t think so. Deal with the lottery or I’ll have you hunting for the murderer.”
That made them nod quickly. None of them wanted to fight an actual killer. He hoped they’d do their jobs for once. Merge was getting back up, swearing softly, forgetting Merdon could hear him.
“That fucking loudmouth bastard. I swear I’ll gut him someday—”
“Shut your yap, Merge. He’ll blow your eardrums out—”
It was all talk. None of them had the guts to take him on. If they were real adventurers, they’d be with their teams. Or, in the case of Madriga and Anabeva, they’d just be here for gold and not want to risk their lives.
That was it. Merdon sat back down and began to chomp down his food as conversation resumed, a few lame jokes, muttering about the damn crowd—the adventurers had learned to hate them, even the new ones—when there was a ratatat of knuckles on the door. Then a voice.
“Captain reporting for duty, sir!”
The female voice was loud, good-natured, and it sent a chill down Merdon’s back. He froze up, fork raised to his mouth, napkin tucked into his armor, and everyone went still.
“Is that a new adventurer or…?”
Merge was slow on the uptake. He turned to Merdon and saw the Named-ranker’s eyes on the door. There was a beat.
“Captain? Am I in the wrong place? Tessa Sharpclaw reporting for duty, sir!”
No one moved. If Merdon had commanded everyone’s attention and gotten a flinch from them, true fear swept the room in a moment. Everyone put their hands on their blades, and Merdon’s heart began to beat in his chest.
She was comatose this morning. Hekusha healed her. It’s barely been twenty minutes and she’s already on another drug.
“Shriekblade, knock it off. Enter.”
“Sir?”
The door slid open, and there she was. Hands tucked behind her back, standing straight, armor on, her neck-spines combed back. She looked and sounded like a young rookie adventurer, and she was smiling.
She scared him. Merdon saw her stride forwards and shoot him a salute.
“Captain Groms? I’m reporting for duty, sir.”
 
——
 
Tessa Sharpclaw was nervous her first day in the new headquarters, but Groms was a good [Captain], merely—grumpy. He glared at her as he motioned her over to the other adventurers.
“Sit down and shut up, Shriekblade.”
Not her name, but she sat, trying to show him she could handle the cut. He was a Gold-ranker, and she knew she was just a talented Bronzer, but Salazsar’s Adventurer’s Guild had recommended her for his company.
Company, not team; he oversaw a bunch of adventurers and organized them into squads for the day, unlike how they did it elsewhere. Working for him got her foot in the door, and if she had a recommendation—she came to a table of four adventurers, who leaned away from her.
“Hi, I’m Tessa. Do you mind if I sit…?”
One of them was a Human man. New to Salazsar? You didn’t get many here, but she realized the entire table was Human. She tried to smile and remembered not to show her teeth. She didn’t have a problem with Humans!
“N-no. Go ahead.”
“Do we have breakfast or do I get it…?”
Someone came over to take her order, and Tessa asked for some simple oats and a piece of gristle-meat, then sat. Everyone was pretty quiet, but when she asked, they introduced themselves.
Merge, Rave, Madriga, and Anabeva. Three women, one man. It made her feel excited! Women instead of men was a bit more relaxing—not that Tessa minded being flirted with occasionally. It was just—awkward.
Fortunately, Captain Groms never did that with her. She’d known him six-years already, and he was always looking out for her. Tessa leaned over to Anabeva.
“Are you new with the Miner’s Guard? I’ve been here six years, and I can’t remember seeing you. Tessa, Silver-ranker.”
“Wh—I thought you were new. I’m Anabeva. We’ve met. Gold-ranker.”
Tessa’s eyes widened.
“Gold? I’m so sorry! I thought you were one of the new recruits—I’m very happy to work with you, Adventure Anabeva!”
She leapt up and began bowing. The Human woman turned to Captain Groms.
“Merdon Captain Groms…what do I…”
“Sit down and eat. Tessa, knock it off. We’re here to work. Even the Healer will kick you out if you don’t fucking behave.”
She frowned at him, confused. What [Healer]…?
“Absolutely, Captain Groms!”
Breakfast came, and she began to eat. She was starving, and the food was great. After a while, the others relaxed as she made small talk. One of them, Merge, smiled at her.
“So you, uh, worked with Captain Groms for six years?”
“Yup. We go way back, right, Captain?”
He must have been tired today, because he raised his face from his plate and simply stared at her.
“Longer than that. Sixteen years.”
That was wrong, but she let it go. Merge jerked a thumb at his chest.
“Well, I’m a Gold-ranker too, so you, uh, listen to me, okay, kid? I’ll teach you the ropes.”
There was laughter as Tessa ducked her head, promising to, and Madriga kicked the man under the table.
“Merge, are you insane?”
“What? It’s funny. Look at her.”
Tessa was sitting up in her chair, stretching, preparing for the job. She had her daggers ready, and she’d set up her belt with tools for the job. Nothing fancy. A few potions, ropes, even a backup pickaxe in case of collapses, though it was just there for moral support. Groms noticed.
“Where’s your bag of holding, Tessa?”
“My what, Captain?”
He growled again.
“Dead gods—you. Find it for her.”
Her bag of…? Tessa frowned, but then she brightened. Was that a gift for her? She smiled at him and resolved to thank Groms later. He was giving out orders, sending the adventurers out to work.
“Tessa, you’re hunting a serial killer with me. Everyone else, get to your posts.”
They were all standing, but a few of the adventurers, who all turned out to be Gold-rank, were lingering. They were whispering. Merge was encouraging them all.
“C’mon. We’re never going to get a chance better than this. Say, uh, Tessa. How’d you get into adventuring? Got any stories or—or run into any Relics or whatnot? Any tips from your work?”
He strolled over with six of the Gold-rankers, and Tessa blinked at him.
“Relics? You mean, like, in Salazsar? Never with the Miners. I’m just picking up a paycheck right now—I quit Captain Groms’ employ, oh, three years back. It’s now good, steady work between adventures, you know? But sure, I’ve seen a few things. Mostly in dungeons. Why, you looking for a team-up?”
Fellow Gold-rankers would be good to roll with instead of having to find the odd team. Merge blinked and then grinned.
“Yeah, sure. We could hunt some monsters. What about—”
“MERGE. Get to work, and stop dancing with Dragons!”
Groms roared, and they all flinched as his voice passed over them, but he hesitated as the others drew back.
“You, uh, said you found Relics? Any of them unrecovered? Valuable spots you couldn’t get to? Or something?”
“A…few.”
She hesitated. You didn’t hit Named-rank and tour most of Izril’s south without seeing a few sights. Getting hints of a big score, but they were merely that: hints. It was all politics, and sometimes you had to pass on a potential prize. But he was excited now.
“C’mon, share a few. Aren’t I the Gold-ranker and you’re the, uh, new Bronze-rank kid?”
She jumped and then stared up at him, open-mouthed. She began nodding rapidly as the other adventurers turned to eye her.
“R-right, yes, sir! Of course! Let me, um, I have a list on me, actually. My diary.”
She began searching for it, and his eyes lit up. He was leaning forwards when Captain Groms howled. He picked up his mace…
Mace? Groms used a sword.
“Merge, you bastard!”
Tessa’s head turned, but Merge was whining.
“C’mon, Merdon! Aren’t you curious? Or has she told you everything?”
Who? Tessa turned, and Groms was gone. A Human with a huge jaw, wearing enchanted steel armor and pointing a mace, was standing there. His voice was beautiful and vast, and his eyes were desperately scared and huge in his face. He had a bit-too bulbous nose from being broken, and he gazed at her like he knew her.
He shouted.
“You Creler-brained idiot! Stop asking her questions! She’s hallucinating!”
“Naw, she’s remembering the past. I’m just—”
Merdon’s voice dropped to a piercing whisper that filled the room.
“She’s hallucinating, you idiot. She never liked Captain Groms.”
His words provoked a quietude that made the people around Tessa grow still like statues, but also filled her head with a kind of silence. A ringing silence in which a bell seemed to chime again, and again, and the world around her wavered.
This rich mess hall vanished. The Humans vanished. She was in a far dingier set of apartments turned into lodgings for the Miner’s Guard, and she saw a Drake staring at her across his desk. He had a scar across one eye that left it pale and milky and sat hunched over, eating a Minerat as he met her for the first time.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, you brat.”
She stared at Captain Groms, her smile faltering as her saluting claw fell to her side. She stood there, not sure what to say as he began to shout at her.
Groms. Groms. Groms—
Tessa’s head rose as he raised a fist to punch her again. She drew her daggers. She heard a voice louder than thunder.
“Tessa! Stop!”
 
——
 
The Healer of Tenbault’s first patient that morning was Tessa. Her second, barely thirty-six minutes later, was Gold-rank Adventurer Merge.
Of course, she complained to Merdon. His reply was a bark that made her recoil from her speaking stone.
“She’s already on drugs! Didn’t you get her to stop?”
“Don’t you dare shout at me, Merdon! I told her to stop for a day, and she promised she’d quit—well, do something about her!”
“I’m trying—is Merge going to make it?”
“Yes. She tore out part of his, um…well, stomach? It might not be fully the same, but the spell’s working.”
Merdon lowered the speaking stone when he heard that and breathed out. Payments to Merge, though it was the idiot’s own fault, and everyone had seen it. If Tessa had killed him, they might not get any other recruits.
Tessa was standing in the empty mess hall, staring down at the blood on the ground. A shaking [Cleaner] was mopping around her boots. She’d gotten him thirty-seven times with the daggers despite five Gold-rank adventurers trying to pull her off him.
“Oi. Tessa.”
He called to her. She didn’t move. Merdon raised his voice.
“Tessa.”
When her head rose, her gaze was flat. Her features were contorted until it seemed like she was sick of the world, and she seemed hungover, exhausted, in pain, and he was glad. Because there she was. Shriekblade.
“What, Merdon?”
“We’ve got work. Take any more drugs and I’ll blast your eardrums out.”
“Mfh.”
He waited. She stood there, swaying. Wiped her mouth and found a glass of water on a table. Drank it. Then peered at him.
“Well?”
“He’s in the city. I don’t know if it’s a ‘he’, actually. Someone’s cutting up people in the streets. Expert slices. Some kind of mad [Killer], maybe, or a gang? It doesn’t look targeted. They have to die. Also, people on the road got killed too. Mostly [Bandits].”
“Okay.”
Tessa checked her blades and then looked around.
“Where’s my bag of holding?”
“I sent someone to search for it. Did you sell it?”
“I don’t know.”
She drank more water and then began to eat from a plate. Halfway through she puked. He saw a multicolored stream coming out of her mouth, although instead of a rainbow, each color was putrid. He grimaced.
“What the fuck is that?”
It was a morbid curiosity. He didn’t take drugs aside from drink. He didn’t even smoke; his lungs had to be pristine. She responded, voice still flat.
“Looks like…Roama’s Fancy.”
“The fuck does that do?”
Another shrug. She began eating again.
“What’d I do?”
“Hallucinate that I was Captain Groms. Stab a Gold-ranker nearly to death.”
Her claws paused as she ate from a discarded plate. Tessa glanced up.
“Sounds like Roama’s Fancy. Maybe mixed with something else. It makes you remember better days.”
“Huh. What were you on last night? King’s Draught?”
“What’d my eyes look like?”
“Yellow.”
“Sounds like it. We going?”
She pushed herself up from the table as vomit pooled onto the floor. The [Cleaner] was staring at it and the two Named-ranks, but Merdon just pushed his plate back after a final bite. He chewed, swallowed, sprayed his throat with some alchemical formula to keep it relaxed, and nodded.
“Lead the way.”
She began to walk towards the doors.
“Where’s the way out?”
“Left, then straight and a right. Lead the way.”
“Okay. Where am I?”
“Tenbault.”
She blinked.
“Was I healed recently?”
“This morning.”
She ran her hands over her body, felt at her face.
“I don’t feel like it.”
“You’ve been here for months. Taking more damn drugs every day.”
Shriekblade stopped rubbing at her face, and her hands lowered.
“After the Winter Solstice. Right. Serial killer in the streets? Okay…whatever. Let’s go.”
She began to walk with more clarity, and he stomped after her. Everyone who saw them coming leapt aside or ran into other rooms. Merdon never got too close to Tessa, never let her walk behind him. So long as Roama’s Fancy was in her blood, he didn’t trust her. But she was here.
After a moment, he spoke.
“What the hell happened on the Winter Solstice?”
He hadn’t gotten a straight answer out of her all this time. Tessa merely shrugged.
“Draugr. Then assassins from Roshal. Failed my job. Client got kidnapped. I stabbed allies.”
“Huh.”
He’d heard it was bad there. Merdon exhaled, and Tessa stared at a wall for a moment. He poked her with the mace.
“Tessa, I’ve had it up to here with your shit. Get. To. Work.”
After a moment, she moved. Tessa spoke as she accelerated, and he had to jog to keep up. Now her face was like his. Bitter, alert, full of weariness to her marrow.
“I’m tired, Merdon. I hate it here.”
“Shut the fuck up, Tessa. Just find that killer, and then you can do whatever you want.”
 
——
 
Merdon was wrong about the killer. He had limited intelligence from a rather inept Watch, and he was no expert in the matter. What he was wrong about was this:
It wasn’t one mass-murderer with a sword.
It was two.
To be more precise, two killers in two locations. One of them was in Tenbault, the other was coming down the roads. The latter killer was riding on the back of a Griffin, actually.
A massive, black-crested one with a reddish beak and claws named ‘Knives’. He was an ill-tempered, vicious Griffin even by their standards, and refused to wear the custom saddle most days. However, he suffered one woman to ride him, the young woman who sat on his back.
The second woman scared the shit out of Knives, so he tried to pretend she didn’t exist. They were circling down as the stranger hopped off his back, and both Knives and Lilian Woods shuffled their feet.
“Now remember, if you’re actually set about your foolishness, you’d better practice that swing. Give me another—now.”
Embarrassed, especially because it looked really stupid, the young woman lifted her weapon of choice and swung it through the air. It made a wind-cutting sound, and it was a fast chop. All the more impressive to the rolling carriage and passengers who stopped to stare at the two because…Lilian was holding a bow.
The second woman, who appeared older than Lilian by a century—literally—was grinning. She had a rucksack over one shoulder, and she drew a sword one-handed.
“Good! Give me a combo. That’s it—”
The clack-clack of her sword meeting the bow was fast, like the beating of a drum. Lilian attacked, panting, then stepped backwards and fired an arrow and another, her hands moving so fast that the watchers assumed it had to be a Skill like [Rapid Fire].
It was not. The second woman pivoted out of the way of the first arrow, then caught the second. She critically eyed it, then flipped it back at Lilian.
“You’re still a bit slow.”
“Oh—come on. I’m…a member…of the Wing of Shame of Kaliv! I’ve fought in a war.”
Lilian was drawing a third arrow when the greatsword slapped the top of her head so hard she bit her tongue. The old woman lifted the sword one-handed, and Knives growled, then flinched as she swung one eye towards him. Well, one eye, three pupils.
Her eyes were very…odd. They had multiple pupils in both eyes, giving her an unnerving appearance. Her skin was pale, showing blue veins, and she appeared rather frail. But she wore leather armor, and, you had to point this out, she was swinging an old greatsword around with one hand.
“You’re not fighting a war, Lilian. You’re up against a legend. So you’d better be fast.”
“If it comes to a fight, I’m dead.”
“It’ll always be a fight with her. The fighting is merely to buy time for the rest of it to work. Again.”
Clackclackclackclack—Lilian was swinging fast, then firing arrows as the older woman, Gadrea, stepped left and right, pressing her backwards. She seemed to know where each arrow was coming from and barely moved to dodge them. She was smiling, enjoying herself.
Perhaps a bit too much. At one point, Lilian lost her temper and shouted.
“[Flicker Arrow]! [Fourfold Draw]!”
She pulled back, fired four arrows that vanished as she loosed them. Gadrea planted the greatsword in the ground and pushed her body up.
She balanced, one hand on the hilt of the sword, inverting her body until she formed a straight line, and the arrows thunked into the ground around her blade. Lilian lowered her bow, and the people in the carriage exclaimed. Gadrea laughed as she landed.
“Apologies. She won’t be that fast. Probably. I’m just feeling a bit more like when I was young. Definitely better. I’ve been dilly-dallying too long, but I can’t help it.”
She flexed an arm, and Lilian tossed down her bow. She sat, panting for air, and then the carriage door burst open.
“Miss Gadrea, Miss—please, won’t you reconsider?”
Someone raced out of the carriage and almost threw herself at the Agelum, but that was unseemly, so Lady Eliasor halted. The girl was desperate. Gadrea turned, and her face softened.
“Ah, child—”
“Please come work for me. Please?”
The [Lady] begged as her staff tumbled out of the carriage, and Gadrea brushed at her hair. Lilian sat up, panting, and then there were [Riders] on the road.
“There she is! Miss Adventurer! Miss, we have another offer! We’ll pay you—”
Gadrea lifted her hands, smiling ruefully as she backed up. The consequences of her actions besieged her—well, not Lilian and Knives, they seemed ready to sneak away—but she had been training the duo ever since she’d met them a week ago.
As for Lady Eliasor? [Bandits] on the road holding up the frightened young woman. And it had been a group of [Thugs] in the city the Watch were from. Or was that the [Kidnappers] for Eliasor, [Bandits] for the Watch, and…?
She had lost track. The woman with strange eyes smiled, laughed, and she was old. Older than anyone here thought, but as they all knew, old people could be the scariest. And she…
Well, she had somewhere to be. But she’d taken her time and cut a swathe down across Izril. Nothing grand. Nothing to shake the fate of nations.
Just a blade in the darkness. Though—that justice that Gadrea dispensed was often the simple edge of a sword. Lilian patted Knives as he squawked at the newcomers.
“I know, I know, we’ll get after the job soon. As soon as crazy lady over there lets us go.”
They were pretty sure that if she jumped into the saddle, Gadrea couldn’t catch them, but she had once beheaded an entire group of [Bandits] with three swings of her sword. Neither of them wanted to risk it.
Gadrea was letting down the young [Lady] gently. She knelt and handed Eliasor something.
“I know you’re a [Lady], child, but I have a calling, and I cannot stay. I’m not the hero you need: you are. There’s that lovely, tough [Lady] who mentors you, isn’t there? Zanthia. She was a brilliant flower of a [Lady] in her time, with a love to set continents ablaze. Learn from her and her ways for they’re no less strong than the swinging sword. But just in case—”
Eliasor nearly dropped the dagger Gadrea handed her, but clutched it to her chest. She gulped, and the others beseeching Gadrea to stay hesitated.
“We need you, though, lady. You could do so much good…not that you haven’t already.”
She gave them such a guilty, bright smile, but then pointed.
“I know. But something calls me southwards, and I must go. I am sorry. I must know it before I die. Forgive me, friends, each one of you.”
She had to hug them all, even Knives and Lilian, before she let them go. Then, as the Griffin leapt into the skies, Gadrea saluted them with one hand. Continued walking down her road, humming a traveller’s song from centuries ago, a greatsword propped over one shoulder.
From then on, she made only one stop on her journey south, mostly out of curiosity. Gadrea halted by a crossroads sign and was about to take the other path when she frowned at a name on the sign.
“Tenbault. Ah, right. It’s probably a waste of time, but we were always curious, weren’t we? Even if we knew…”
She hesitated, but then jogged briskly down the road. Curiosity was going to kill the cat anyways, and someone had better be there to stop it.
That was how the Agelum came to Tenbault.
To say she hated it, well…
That would be underselling things.
 
——
 
Within an hour of coming to Tenbault, Gadrea was broke, and she’d lost the jewelry that Eliasor had given her as thanks for saving her from…whomever Gadrea had saved her from.
She handed the locket and jewel over to the stunned family of four with a smile, closing the mother’s hand around the gem.
“There. Use it to get out of this city. Your boy is better served somewhere safer and warmer. Just as I said, if he trains his body, he’ll get a [Warrior] class; the Skills will better serve than waiting for miracles.”
“You’re sure? Lady—”
Gadrea felt at her belt pouch for more coins and shook her head.
“I’m sorry, I don’t have more to offer. I could give you this—”
The plain, steel greatsword wasn’t worth much, though. The family had to stop her from offering it, and Gadrea walked them to the entrance of Tenbault and helped them secure decent horses from the hostler. Then she exhaled.
“So this is the City of Miracles.”
“Hah!”
The [Hostler] spat into the straw. He went to cuff a horse trying to sniff at his dirty overalls, and Gadrea grabbed his arm.
“Hey, watch—”
He met her eyes and hesitated. Her smile was as gentle as her touch, but it refused to budge.
“We don’t mistreat animals or people where I come from, friend. The poor creatures are addled with flies. Isn’t there something for that?”
The stables were a mess. The [Hostler] began to bristle.
“Listen, you. You try dealing with a hundred damn visitors a day—at least! Everyone from haughty nobles to cheats and rogues. D’you think I’m mistreating them?”
“No, but the flies seem to annoy the horses.”
Gadrea indicated them as the buzzing cloud made several horses toss their heads. The [Hostler] glared.
“I don’t have any help nor a Skill t’deal with them. If I had but a day of peace, I’d muck the stables out—”
“Hoi, hostler! I need a horse!”
He cursed as someone struck a bell outside. Then he was striding off and away from the old woman. The [Hostler] found a horse for the man wanting to leave Tenbault, cursing the Healer, cursing this city, and who could blame him?
When the [Hostler] came back, it was with a guilty conscience to check on the horses. He couldn’t afford to get more than a potion to keep the bugs away for a while, but maybe—
—He returned to find Gadrea finishing mucking out the last berth in the stables. She brushed at her hair and grinned at him as she forked new hay into the stables.
“There.”
“Wh—how’d you do that so fast—”
The flies weren’t gone, but they were following the detritus she’d taken, and the horses were visibly happier. Gadrea just wiped at her brows, then cursed; she had muck on her hands, having worked without gloves.
“I used to be good with my hands. I’ve been feeling much better than I used to, of late.”
“Oh, come here for the Healer’s mercy?”
“Actually…I’m fine without, I hope. But if I was so lucky, I’d love to see it. I’ve been sick my whole life, you see.”
The [Hostler] shook his head as he hurried out with some water for her.
“If you want my advice, Miss, do as you told the others. Leave. It’s luck of luck to get the [Healer]’s attention, and there are plenty of [Gamblers] and the like who already manipulate it. ‘Lest you have the coin. And begging your pardon, but you don’t seem to have enough. It’s a hundred gold t’see her if you even get the lottery. Do you have that?”
“I gave my last coins to people in the camps.”
“What? Are you mad? They’re all [Beggars] there!”
“Some needed a hand and swore they’d leave if they had a chance. I hope they weren’t lying to me.”
She was insane. The [Hostler] stared at her, then glanced around.
“You cleared my stables faster’n a Level 20 [Stablehand]. I can’t pay you much, but…”
She forestalled him with a hand and smile.
“If you wanted to pay me in any way, I’d take bedding down in a spare loft if you’d allow me that? I plan on visiting the city a bit, but having a place to sleep tonight would be a comfort.”
“Just that? You’re going around giving away coins and labor for free? What, are you mad? Or is it a class?”
He looked her up and down, and Gadrea smiled at him with such genuine innocence he felt like he was speaking to a child or a bright stranger. Someone who didn’t fit in the world he knew.
“No. It simply feels good, doesn’t it?”
 
——
 
Good deeds did not always beget other goodness. But that was not why you did them. Nor were Agelum good by nature. They could be harsh. Cruel and dogmatic.
But the ones of House Shoel had been born into a strange union with their dark cousins. Their warring over the ages had ended, and this final peace was of a dying duo of species.
Gadrea was blessed by love, if not health. She had been fine with that, but this surge of strength that had brought her to Izril’s shores gave her hope that she might do more than rely on House Shoel’s wealth to make a difference.
The strength. She opened and closed one hand, and she had not felt so alive, even when she had been first born.
It was coming from further south. A conflagration of something beautiful. It lured her ever-closer, and she felt like there were other visions of beauty around her. Sparks of…something.
She’d even passed land owned by a Lady Bethal Walchaís that had some of what she wanted, but she wished to see the original spot that had called to her. And, the Agelum had to note, it was not all the same…whatever it was.
Faith. She intended to write Uziel a letter telling him and the Agelum what she had found and if it was an illusion or real, for it would change everything. One of her observations was that this growing phenomenon that she seemed to need and fed off of had variants.
Levels of strength. Conviction? As well as the targets. For instance, Lady Bethal had been a bit…desperate? And it had been aimed at something—someone. It had given Gadrea an uneasy feeling, as if she were encroaching into someone’s territory. Or pledging herself towards…
There was a danger here. So she had left quickly. The feeling to the south, around the High Passes, was far gentler in many ways and had no person strongly attached to it. Or maybe a person?
She couldn’t tell, but it wasn’t as committed. Gadrea would get there soon enough in her way; she was on a great and beautiful adventure, the kind she’d always longed for instead of all the wars and causes that had taken her time when she could stand and swing a sword.
However, rather to her displeasure…she found Tenbault had faith too. It was directed at the Healer, and it was strong, but it made her physically ill.
It was desperate, cloying, filled with madness and suffering, and it was wrong. It made her feel as though the people around here were exhaling foulness into the sky, and the faith was forming some cloud of ill-thoughts hanging over this city.
“—Foul as the wounds they bear.”
Gadrea was too sick to even use the few coins that the [Hostler] had given her to buy a meal—not that she could afford anything more than scraps. She was rapidly reconsidering a stay here, but the Healer was famous.
Like as not she can only cast [Restoration], according to our sources, but I should find out if she can help. Still, would Gadrea puke from staying here another hour?
Gadrea sagged against a filthy wall in the city, which was so overcrowded and messy with discarded bandages, people sitting because they had nowhere to rest—someone shoved at her.
“One side! Lord Gilthor to see the Healer!”
She went staggering and turned as she saw a group of muscled men beating a path through the city. They kicked over begging bowls, knocked people down. She heard a cry of pain and nearly reached for her sword, but stopped.
Not my continent. Better to help the fallen then swing a sword. She bent, then recoiled when she saw a woman clutching at an arm ridden with pox.
“Young woman, you’re infected. You’ll spread it—”
“Shut up! I’m fine!”
The woman screeched at her, but everyone around them had heard. They turned and began to scream.
“Disease! Diseased! Send her to the Plague Quarter! Guards! Guards!”
The woman tried to run, but the call attracted slouching [Guardsmen]. They poked long-handled ‘spears’ of wood at her, mancatchers, shouting, and then another group wearing enchanted robes and face-masks appeared. They began to shove the young woman towards a sector of the city that Gadrea was informed was where her kind had to be.
Informed—and tossed there herself. The walls of the high gates slammed shut as she argued with the gatekeepers.
“But I’m not sick. Nor have I touched—”
“Anyone in her vicinity goes here. If you don’t have any rashes or the like on the morrow’s morning, you can walk free.”
Over two dozen people in the street had been rounded up, and they were swearing at the [Guards], the woman, and Gadrea. The Agelum peered around and exhaled. Then found a spare shirt in her bag of holding to tear up. She began to make crude facemasks and handed them out to the others around her.
“Some city. Wear this and don’t touch anyone. Don’t drink from the wells.”
She was not immune to sickness herself; in fact, her constitution meant she might be more susceptible than they were. Gadrea wondered if jumping the walls was better than staying here, but she walked into the silent streets, avoiding the shuttered windows with splashes of paint marking them and the people sleeping under cots of filthy linens. She was ready to leap the walls and just run out of this city before it drove her to madness, but she halted when she found the first body in the alleyway.
 
——
 
It was a very, very neat cut. Merdon didn’t get queasy easily, but even he swallowed at the cut that went from shoulderblade to right under the heart. The corpse had begun to rot, and the insides were spilling out onto the street.
Plague Quarter. It was the scariest part of the city bar none; no crime compared to what might come out of here. However, the Healer paid for protections and enchantments on the gates that led in and out of here; she even received money from the Five Families.
It made more sense to send the sick here than keep them in their cities. So long as the plagues didn’t spread. Hekusha could also heal almost every sickness in the world. Those she couldn’t—
Well, Merdon had overseen a few times when they’d had to burn houses, quarantine those with a magical sickness, and evacuate parts of the city. Mostly, it was contained, but his skin crawled despite knowing he had all the gear on he needed to stay healthy. If he was sick, Hekusha would take care of it. But he wanted out of here fast.
Merdon had an enchanted facemask wrapped around his helmet that was supposed to help against such things, but he was going to have his armor washed and take a bath in the best soaps he had after this.
Tessa, by contrast, had inserted her gloves into the cavity and was feeling around.
“Dead gods, Tessa. Have you found anything?”
“Nope.”
Shriekblade drew her gloves away and wiped them on her armor. Merdon gagged.
“What the hell did this?”
“Blades. Sharp ones.”
Crowdcaller Merdon stared at Shriekblade. He was rapidly regretting taking her on this hunt, but Shriekblade knew her work. She stood.
“It’s not [Assassins]. Let’s go. I probably know where they are.”
“Wh—just like that?”
“Mm.”
She wandered out of the alleyway, and he waved at the Watch.
“Dispose of this. Burn the body or something. Shriekblade, wait!”
She waited as he strode over.
“How do you know it’s not [Assassins]?”
“No poison. Standard Guild policy to poison blades. Couldn’t find any in the wound.”
“You can read poison from the flesh even after it rots?”
That was impressive, but she shook her head.
“What am I, a [Hunter]? [Drug Hunt]. Works on poisons. Didn’t find anything I liked.”
…You could use Skills like that? He grunted.
“Most poisons don’t sound like something you’d enjoy.”
“You wouldn’t. Spider venom works if you’ve got nothing around.”
That was the tenor of most of their conversations. Merdon fell silent after a moment.
“How do you know who it is? Or who it isn’t?”
“[Assassins], [Thugs], all take coin pouches. Gangs leave markers.”
“Oh. Right.”
He’d missed that the dead man had his possessions. Tessa wandered into an alleyway, disturbing some of the residents who looked up at her and Merdon and began to beg. He opened his mouth, but she simply drew her daggers, and they backed up. Tessa glanced around, shook her head, and wandered out. She tried another street, seemingly at random.
“Also, I know who did this.”
“Wh—you do?”
“Mm.”
“And?”
She paused in kicking at shuttered and bound doors with the words ‘Plague’ slathered across the entrance. Glanced back at him.
“Ran into them before. It’s Midnight’s Laughter.”
If Merdon could have had a worse day—he stopped dead in the street.
“The Midnight’s Laughter? Aren’t they in Chandrar? The deadliest murderer in the world?”
“No, the other one, dumbass.”
He saw her walk on, then he was striding after her, head on a swivel. Merdon hissed at Tessa.
“But I didn’t hear any laughter! Don’t they use it when they’re killing their victims?”
And don’t they have a reputation for having killed even Named-rank adventurers? Nobles north and south, even a [General] in the middle of his camp? Merdon was about to call in every Gold-ranker when Tessa shrugged.
“Not always. They have to charge up their Skill. It’s…fifty…six people before it reaches maximum? They’re probably doing that here. They change continents sometimes. Kill in different ways to make it look like they’re someone else. They came here because it got too dangerous in Chandrar, probably.”
“And you can find them.”
“Sure, maybe. If I get close enough, we’ll sense each other. Then I’ll kill them or they’ll kill me, and we’ll get rid of them.”
She strode along as Merdon tried to work out how many levels of terrible this plan was before hissing at her.
“Forget about that! We’ll call the Gold-ranks up and go after them methodically! Lock down the city quadrant by quadrant!”
“Won’t work. When they know they’re hunted, they’ll run or hide. If you make them mad, they’ll get angry. Probably kill the Healer. Or you. Chasing them off is easiest.”
“Wh—and chasing them off won’t make them mad?”
“…Probably? But they’ll be mad at me.”
“And?”
“They won’t try to kill me. Too much work. Plus, we worked together on a job. Assassin’s Guild, before they murdered the old Guildmaster.”
Nothing she said made Merdon happy. He was sweating as he peered into the alleyways she was striding down.
“Should I hit them with a Skill or hold back…?”
They were rounding a corner, and Tessa was giving him a look of actual disdain. Coward. He read it in her eyes, and his blood boiled. He opened his mouth as she drew her daggers when they heard the giggle.
It was a soft sound that penetrated the ear and was just loud enough to make you realize it wasn’t your imagination. A shiver ran all down his spine, and Merdon and Tessa whirled. They stared around; she pointed ahead, and they ran.
The second thing Merdon heard was a clang. A muffled curse, and he burst around the corner of the alleyway and found the strangest sight in his life.
A hooded, cloaked figure with a smiling mouth grinning out of the black hood, an illusion of huge, yellowed teeth, was holding a shortsword in one hand, a curved kris–dagger in the other. They were anchored to the wall of the alleyway, crouching on the bricks as if they had sticky boots. Midnight’s Laughter, the famous [Serial Killer], leapt upwards, summersaulting, all the while giggling, and the greatsword cut the air under them.
Then the white-haired woman, who could have been Merdon’s grandmother, kicked up and nearly took the serial killer’s head off. The [Serial Killer] parried the blow in a shower of sparks. Gadrea landed, checked her greatsword, and sighed.
A huge divot had been taken out of the steel. But the impact had tossed the hooded figure down the alleyway. They caught themselves, skidding on the ground, and Merdon and Tessa eyed the fight.
Expert blade-users, both of them. Merdon opened his mouth and barked.
[Cone of Sound], [Stunning Shout].
“Halt!”
Gadrea slammed into a wall and braced as the sound wall hit her, teeth bared. Midnight’s Laughter just vanished with a giggle, appearing on the roof overhead.
Merdon thought a curse as he drew breath for another attack, searching for Midnight’s Laughter. He couldn’t narrow his sound attack enough to avoid hitting the strange woman or Tessa if they were that close. If they forced Midnight’s Laughter back and gave Merdon an opening, he could unload at full volume. Tessa’s job was to screen Merdon, and she went in stabbing—
—the wrong person. The Agelum woman staggered, then ducked the stabbing daggers that plunged into the crumbling brickwork.
“Ach. I’m not the killer!”
“Tessa, you idiot, wrong one!”
Merdon roared, but Shriekblade kept stabbing. She lanced the air, and Gadrea ducked the flurry of blows and threw an uppercut with her free hand.
Fast—the blow doubled over the Drake, and Merdon saw the old woman back up and use the greatsword to keep Tessa wide of her.
Is she a Named-ranker too? She’s fast—he was so busy watching them he didn’t see the other shadow until he heard a giggle in his ears. Only Merdon’s ears saved him.
Not behind, to the right—he barked one word.
“No!”
[Voice: Remove Recoil]. He deactivated the Skill and used the force of his words to blow himself backwards a step. The blade cut the air right where Merdon’s face had been, and he swung his mace.
“DAMN YOU!”
Merdon’s earthshattering voice made everything tremble, and it slowed the hooded figure as they whirled towards him. He saw them raise their blades, criss-crossed, and his mace swung through their face and…
Vanished. A giggle, and Merdon saw Midnight’s Laughter disappear—again.
Some kind of dodge-Skill. Great. He whirled, putting his back to the wall, looking up—only to see Tessa go flying past him. She slammed into a wall, landed, and he roared.
“Shriekblade, what are you doing?”
She flipped onto her feet, and her eyes were huge, dilated. Then she seemed to re-focus and shook herself.
“Did I get—”
“Wrong one, idiot! Where’s Midnight’s Laughter?”
Gadrea was backing up, panting, head spinning as her strange eyes flicked around, and now Tessa and Merdon were back-to-back. She was panting, reaching for a vial.
“Giggling. That’s their Skill. [Laughter of the Invincible Killer].”
“What? What!? How do you defeat that?”
Gadrea and Merdon turned to Tessa, and she popped another cork off of a vial with pale orange dust inside.
“Keep stabbing until they run out of charges. It’s only giggling. Got to be fast. Going to [Amplify Drug]. Fifteen seconds.”
“That’s Selphid Dust. Don’t do it. She’ll attack everything, and it’ll damage her mind.”
Gadrea called out. Merdon grabbed for the vial.
“Tessa, put it down!”
The Drake wasn’t listening. She was tilting her head left and right.
“You there, Laughy? Wrong city. Gonna diediedie if you stay.”
Merdon tried to break her grip on the vial of Selphid’s Dust. She pivoted and then put her body under his, and he swore.
“Don’t you dare! Don’t you—”
She threw him. The huge, armored man felt the world rotate, and he landed on the ground, but the air didn’t leave his lungs. He was ready to shout, and he felt a crawl down his spine as he heard a voice, breathless and high, whispering in his ears. Tessa was staring ahead of him, into the shadows.
Above.
“Gonna die, Shrieky. You’re all slow. Dying.”
Midnight’s Laughter plunged down, blades first, and drove both deep into Tessa’s shoulders. They would have gone through her but for the greatsword that flashed through Midnight’s Laughter’s body and made them vanish. Tessa stumbled, and the vial rose in her claws as the cloaked figure appeared half a dozen feet down the alleyway, hissing with annoyance. Tessa inhaled the dust made from a Selphid’s corpse, and her pupils turned into pinpricks.
Gadrea, Merdon, the [Serial Killer], all felt a prickle down their spines. Not fear, but pure instinct. The Drake known as Shriekblade went still for one second. Then her eyes rolled up in her head. She was stabbing.
“Tessa! Stop! St—”
Through the joints in his armor. At Gadrea as she dodged, unnaturally fast, then [Wicked Cuts] to her stomach, too fast. A slash across Midnight’s Laughter’s hood and a curse as she rammed the dagger through a hand. Across Merdon’s forehead, the [Serial Killer]’s legs, Gadrea’s arm—
All of them trying to back away from the blank-faced, screaming Drake who slashed and slashed, then fell flat on her face fifteen seconds later. Merdon would have hit the fleeing [Serial Killer] as Gadrea tried to bandage a bleeding artery, but then Tessa woke up. She moved half as fast as the backlash from the Selphid’s Dust hit her. Like a woman underwater.
Nevertheless, she planted a dagger in Merdon’s right foot, through his boot, and began to twist until he brought his mace down on her head as hard as he could. He raised the mace and would have swung it down again but for Gadrea’s arm. Only then did the Gold-rankers and Watch appear.
Midnight’s Laughter was long gone.
The Healer was not pleased.
 
——
 
“Stop it, Tessa. Stop it!”
Merdon was bleeding as he slammed her into the wall of Hekusha’s mansion hard enough to crack the plaster. Hekusha was waiting to heal him—and her—but not while Tessa was mad with blades.
The Selphid’s Dust was coursing through her, and she stabbed his arm again, despite his armor. He was panting.
“She’s…not going to stop. Someone get a [Message] spell, [Communication]—get a damn scrying orb to Salazsar now! Adventurer’s Guild!”
He tried to slam her into the wall again, but she was stabbing with her one remaining dagger, and he had to let go or lose his hand. She stood there, slashing at him, hopping around, head tilted crazily to the side.
“This is insane. She’s supposed to be on our side?”
One of the Gold-rankers had a bow drawn and was aiming it at Tessa. Merdon was reaching for a healing potion, and then he grimaced, watching blood run down his armor.
“Don’t fire it or she’ll leap. Just back up—back up—let it drain out of her. Where’s that scrying orb?”
Madriga had one, and she turned to him, pale-faced, as Gadrea lifted her greatsword, one-handed. She’d tied off the spurting artery, and her blood was—blue? No time for that. Probably some other species.
“Got them, Merdon. What am I asking for?”
“Her Anchor!”
“Her what?”
Merdon spun and shouted in the Gold-ranker’s face.
“The person who can calm a Named-ranker down if they go crazy, you idiot! Get one of them on the orb NOW.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t well-known what an Adventurer’s Anchor was. Mostly because the Adventurer’s Guild didn’t like to advertise that their best adventurers could be—a bit crazy at times. Nor was it always standard to have one, but most guilds with a Named-ranker who regularly visited had one.
The rather panicked [Receptionist] in Salazsar’s main guild tore through the files on Shriekblade as the Gold-rank adventurer screamed at him and made urgent calls via the scrying orb. They had three people on the list.
The first was Saliss of Lights, but Pallass’ Guild informed the [Receptionist] that he was out of contact range. So the second one.
“A-Adventurer Meelstom? Hello? I have a rather urgent emergency. You’re listed as the Adventurer’s Anchor for Miss Tessa? They’re having a crisis, and we need you to speak to them.”
The Gold-rank adventurer on the scrying orb of another Guild stared at the [Receptionist].
“I’m on the…for who?” 
“Shriekblade? Adventurer Meelstom, if you could say something to her, I could connect you to—”
“Shriekblade? I don’t even know her! I did a single adventure with her five years back. What do you mean I’m her Anchor?”
The Gold-rank Drake appeared astonished, and the [Receptionist]’s heart sank.
“But you’re on the list. Surely you remember her or you had some journey together…”
“It was a group of eighteen of us hunting Crelers. I don’t—she didn’t stab me, but that’s all. I’m—excuse me, I’m actually on a <Quest>, I can’t talk, and I can’t help.”
“Wait—but—”
That left the final person on the list. The [Receptionist] was relieved to note they were actually in Salazsar and had a City Runner dispatched at once. But when the final Drake appeared on the scrying orb, he was…
“Captain Groms? I have a small issue with—”
“You have to stop doing this. Stop…stop calling me.”
The rasp from the scrying orb made the [Receptionist] double-check it, but the orb was dark. Because the Drake was in a dark room. His voice sounded haunted as he croaked.
“I told you, again and again, stop calling me. I don’t want to ever hear that thing’s name again. You understand? I’m not going to calm her down.”
He didn’t sound at all like someone who was even cordial with Shriekblade. The [Receptionist] stared at his name and contact details on the list.
“I don’t understand, sir, you’re on her list of Anchors. Surely you can do some—”
“You idiot!”
There was a wheezing hiss to Groms’ shriek, like lungs which couldn’t hold air properly. He coughed, then rasped.
“The reason…I’m on the list is because she takes everyone off it. Anyone who gets close to her dies or—or they’re foolish enough to try and help her. Then she turns around and guts them. I’m on the damn list because you idiots won’t take me off! Every other adventurer is active or dead.”
The [Receptionist] was going to write out Groms’ name on said list, but Merdon was screaming from the other scrying orb, and the Drake tried again.
“Sir, Mister Groms, she’s having a crisis. If there’s anything you can do, if you can just—”
“If she hears my voice, she’ll kill everything and me. I told you. Stop calling me.”
The Drake shrieked at the [Receptionist], and both flinched. For a second, there was a sliver of light. The [Receptionist] of Salazsar caught what might have been a face.
Half a face. Then someone opened the door wider.
“Captain Groms? Do you need a [Healer]? Is the scrying orb disturbing—”
“Don’t call me again.”
The scrying orb disconnected as the Drake hurled it, and the [Receptionist] heard a cry of dismay, then silence.
Was that Salazsar’s hospital? They had a huge building they used to treat mass-casualties when there was an accident in the mines; one of the ways the City of Gems was so advanced. Even so, the [Receptionist] was used to bad injuries at the main guild in Salazsar, but that was—
“Problems, Receptionist Jorge?”
The [Guildmaster] had come over. The Drake jumped and explained the problem.
“I’ll take Groms off the list, sir. I just can’t help with—?”
The [Guildmaster] was glancing at the scrying orb.
“Oh, no need for that.”
“But he’s clearly not helpful, sir—”
“Groms. Silver-rank Captain. Head of an adventuring company, oh, way back. Before your time, son. You never met the man before he retired, eh? Shame what happened. Adventurer-on-adventurer violence.”
Jorge shook his head as the [Guildmaster] placed a hand on the book of Adventurers’ Anchors.
“Shame about Shriekblade. She was a nightmare when she came in like that, on drugs. She’d come in bad, and the place would be blood and chaos. I thought the Watch would kill her some day. Still might. Damn shame for a Named-ranker, especially ours. Bones of our Ancestors, she used to be a good kid.”
He stared past Jorge as he closed the book, fastening the little latch and locking it to prevent someone finding the valuable information. The [Receptionist] protested.
“Wait, Guildmaster, Captain Groms? He’s been begging for his name to be removed.”
“Hm? Oh, that. Don’t you worry, we’ll get it sorted.”
The Guildmaster put the book back on the top shelf and dusted his claws.
“Eventually. Did you ever know what happened to his company, the Miners? Damn shame. You should look it up. A man like that ruins a lot. Other good adventurers, lives, even a Named-ranker—terrible what happened to him. But if anyone deserved it, well.”
The [Receptionist] stared at the closed book and the [Guildmaster] as he strolled back to his office.
“There’s no justice in this world, and the Watch doesn’t handle our affairs, mostly. Shame about Shriekblade too. Some things even that Healer can’t heal, eh? Ancestors, some days…”
Did that mean what Jorge thought it did? Should he…? The Drake glanced at the book of Adventurers’ Anchors, wavering. Wasn’t the right thing to do…? But then the other scrying orb screamed at him, and the [Receptionist] heard Crowdcaller Merdon shouting.
“Where’s my damn Anchor?”
“I’m—I’m sorry, Named-rank Adventurer. But I don’t have—”
Merdon appeared in the scrying orb, struggling with a writhing, biting Drake covered in blood. She’d lost both her daggers, but she was tearing at his arm, trying to eat his hand as he smashed her into the wall. He shouted, and she went flying.
Merdon looked around and then bellowed.
“SHRIEKBLADE. ENOUGH.”
It actually overloaded the scrying orb, and the entire Salazsarian Adventurer’s Guild winced as the scrying orb cracked. The horrified [Receptionist] saw Merdon pointing as a ringing sound came from the orb, Gold-rank adventurers streaming back, a woman with a greatsword catching an arrow before it could loose. Merdon was holding a hand up.
Tessa lunged for him, and he shouted again, and her form vibrated in the air before vanishing. This time, she left a spray of blood on the hallway. The scrying orb cracked further, and Merdon lifted his shield. Stared at something on the ground. Opened his mouth, then croaked.
“Tessa. Stop drinking that.”
In the silence before the scrying orb cracked to pieces, he lowered his mace and then his head. Then there was, faintly, a bright, humming voice. The [Receptionist] saw Tessa’s head lolling as she lay, boneless, covered in her own blood.
Eyes focused on nothing in this world at all.
 
——
 
She was dreaming of her childhood. Trying to remember all the moments before it had gone bad. Before Captain Groms, the Assassin’s Guild. Before it all.
A Drake girl sat on a farm’s fence, watching some cows munching on the golden hay outside of Salazsar’s walls.
It wasn’t the richest of farms, but the cows were bright-eyed, and the wheat climbed tall, sprouting and smelling like fresh bread. She kicked her legs, and the girl was free.
Not a [Knifemistress], a [Rogue], or anything else. Just…Tessa Sharpclaw of the Sharpclaw Farms. Her parents were shouting at her to come in, and the wind blew at her neck spines as she inhaled the fresh air.
Why had she ever left? A part of Tessa was weeping as the child hummed and swung her legs down, landing amidst the golden wheat, and a dog ran up, russet red fur gleaming.
She could have stayed. She was watching young Tessa run towards the door of the farm where, inside the barn doors, she saw a table laden with food. She reached for the vision—
Merdon’s hand dragged her up, out of the dream. Into pain and his staring huge eyes, and his voice growled at her from above.
“Stop lying, Tessa.”
“Let me go. Let me go. I want to be a child again—”
She was babbling at him as he dragged her down the corridor. Blood and pain and staring eyes, and she was trying to pull herself down into her childhood memories, but his voice was pulling her back like that gauntleted fist.
“Stop. Lying.”
“I wish I’d never left home!”
He screamed at her as Hekusha emerged from her ritual chambers, screamed that voice through her memories, dashing them to pieces.
“You never lived on a farm, Tessa! Your parents were [Coal Miners]! You didn’t fucking eat in a barn!”
He grabbed the vial of Roama’s Fancy and hurled it to the ground and stepped on it. Then he tossed her into the room beyond and she saw the Healer reaching for her.
Better, again. Healed, again.
Only this time…even Hekusha couldn’t put her all the way back together. Not this time.
 
——
 
Tessa stood in front of a mirror, and a tooth was missing from her mouth. It had fallen out. It wasn’t one of her main Wyvern’s teeth, the four main incisors, just one to the left of her lower left Wyvern’s tooth.
It was lying in the sink basin. Apparently, it had popped out when she was restored.
Hekusha’s magic could fix a tooth if you brought it to her, but it couldn’t grow you a new one. Tessa stared at it. The tooth was badly cracked; the roots had snapped off ,and she doubted it’d go back in even if Hekusha healed her again. How’d she lost it? Too much damage too quick or being hit by Merdon repeatedly. Or…had there been Midnight’s Laughter?
She couldn’t recall.
She looked worse. Tessa’s tongue felt at her missing tooth, and she saw she had lost more scales. They were dying or something. Wasn’t she supposed to be [Restored]? Or was she rotting?
“You’re dying. You can’t keep doing this. No more drugs.”
Tessa told herself. She’d attacked Merdon. Teamkiller. She didn’t…she had attacked someone innocent too. Hekusha had been telling her off about it. An innocent person seeking healing here.
Something dangerous as a sword and bright. Tessa put her claws to her head and tried to remember. Instead, something fell out.
A neck spine. She saw it land in the washbasin and rattle around; alarmed, she swept her claws against her head. To her relief, nothing else fell off, but this…
Rotting. Rotting from the inside out like the others. Even with Hekusha’s magic, this is it. Tessa took a few breaths in and out. Inside, she wanted to shout at her body. But she couldn’t because…she’d known this would happen eventually. In a way, it was a good thing.
“Okay. Okay, I’m going to quit. This is it. It’s—good. This is my breaking point.”
It was one thing to be sick until you vomited blood, shaking, incontinent, but if her tooth and spines were going, she wouldn’t last any longer. She nodded to herself. No more drugs. Absolutely not.
She’d start by throwing it all away. Aimlessly, she cast about her rooms. Found a capsule of Arrowsmoke and began to make a pile to set on fire. Then realized that would defeat the point and began to flush it all down the privy.
She had just popped the Arrowsmoke capsule with a claw and was about to pour the fine powder into the water when she hesitated.
It cost so much to get and…she put it aside. A pile. She’d make a pile, first, and not touch it. Then she began to count how many unopened packages and bottles she had.
This is enough for at least one more day. She began stacking it all up, counting how much she had, and a thought stole across her mind.
Tomorrow. First, she’d use it all up. All of it—Hekusha had a job for her, probably. One last hurrah, and then she wouldn’t have anything left, and it’d be easy to go [Cryomancer] on everything.
After this, it was over. She felt relieved and began to pile everything she could find up into a pyre for her addiction. It would be the greatest and most beautiful moment yet. Nothing to lose, one last…she was definitely going to quit.
You won’t.
“Shut up.”
She snapped at her reflection. She knew what to do. She’d escaped her addictions before. Numerous times!
Always Have An Escape Plan. AHAEP. So long as you had that, you could get out of the bottom of the well. She could do it.
She would.
It was just a tooth and neck spine.
 
——
 
In a way, Merdon was relieved. Not…happy, but he expected Hekusha to be livid when he met with her after his [Restoration].
She used a kind of ritual system where she drew mana from linked [Mages], or rather, [Mana Conduits]. People whose entire job was to have a lot of mana, not do any casting. She had floor sigils, rooms dedicated to the process—and cleanup.
It could get messy depending on what was in you, and she had a [Delayed Action] effect on [Restoration] that made it better or more effective or something. You’d wake up in a pure white bed in a similarly colored room, which probably felt like rebirth to many.
Merdon wondered if it was so Hekusha didn’t have to talk to anyone, but as soon as he’d finished cursing over the damage to his armor and checked himself for more scars, he reported in.
Obviously, to talk about Tessa. She was gone, obviously. She had to be. He broached the subject as Hekusha drank wine; it was 3 PM, so she was probably done with anything but emergency heals.
“So, about Tessa.”
She lifted a finger, and he waited for her to finish her sip. Then Hekusha let one of her handsome younger servants pat her lips with a napkin. She smiled at the boy and spoke to Merdon.
“Mm. Yes. She was a problem today, wasn’t she? Was that really Midnight’s Laughter?”
He grunted.
“Looked like it. He might have killed forty more people if we hadn’t stopped him. Charging a Skill.”
“Charging a Skill? It was really him? Her? What species?”
“I couldn’t see. Too busy fighting for my life.”
“And you fought him?”
Hekusha turned vaguely wondering eyes on him, which annoyed Merdon. He was still a Named-ranker, even if…even if. Sometimes, he forgot she was a civilian. They both had power, but she didn’t know what fighting was like. He wondered, still, what she’d seen when the Goblins had kidnapped her. They hadn’t done anything to her; he was almost positive about that.
That had been for that [Innkeeper]. He’d known desperate people before, and they’d come trying to kidnap Hekusha with numbers, but never Goblins. Never like that…Merdon spoke abruptly.
“They’re gone, probably. Shriekblade said she might have scared them off. But about her—she’s lost it. Completely.”
“Because she attacked you?”
He rolled his shoulders, uncomfortable.
“Yes. No. It’s not just attacking me. It’s her using drugs in a battle.”
“That’s…new?”
Another moment when he and she eyed each other, and Crowdcaller Merdon grunted.
“It is. She never uses them in a fight unless she’s losing. Never to open a fight. It dulls her edge. She knows that.”
It had been the one thing you could predict about Shriekblade: when she was on duty, she was on. But that had rattled him. Hekusha tapped her lips.
“But she did fight off Midnight’s Laughter.”
“And she nearly killed me and that stranger! Your personal bodyguard!”
He snapped, and the servant backed up as he went to pour Hekusha a second refill. She tsked, and Merdon modulated his voice.
“She’s a liability. After her two stunts today, the Gold-rankers will leave rather than work with her. She can’t be used.”
So Tessa would be gone, and in the state she was in…no more healing meant she’d have to moderate her usage of drugs. Until she had enough gold to come back. Hekusha tapped her lips, and he felt odd. Merdon did his throat stretches a few times and used his spray. She was normally endlessly upset about having to heal him or anyone for free. But Hekusha was thoughtful. She was never thoughtful.
“Certainly, Shriekblade’s no good for helping you. But she’s…mm. Did you know that woman is actually from Ailendamus? Lady Gadrea of House Shoel. She’s rich. I thought she was some beggar.”
“She’s practically a Named-ranker herself.”
“Named? Really? She’s so old. And her eyes and blood—”
“What species is she? She bleeds blue.”
Hekusha took another gulp of wine and shrugged lightly.
“Some magical variant like the nobles of…that magical kingdom, perhaps. Half-Elven variant? I don’t know. Why would I? I’m going to heal her after this. I was just going to consult about Tessa first. Oh, here she is now.”
A figure had appeared at the doorway, and Merdon felt his skin crawl even though he knew she’d never hurt Hekusha. But those were the old rules…Tessa seemed awake, un-drugged for the moment, and almost chipper. Thoroughly confused, Merdon glanced at the servant, who stepped back, and he lowered his voice to a precise whisper only Hekusha could hear.
“Letting her go, you mean?”
She waved a languid hand at him.
“No, no. Tessa, you’ve been so much trouble today. I have to heal someone and Merdon?”
“My deepest apologies, Healer. I chased away Midnight’s Laughter, though.”
Tessa was staring at her feet, but Hekusha waved her forwards, and she shuffled into position next to Merdon. He glared at her. She ducked her head to him.
“Sorry.”
Hekusha jumped in before Merdon spat something at Tessa.
“You’ve done a lot of damage. However, I do have a way for you to make the issue up. Where’s my notes? Um…where? Here.”
The serving boy handed her something, and Merdon saw Tessa tense up slightly. He was confused, utterly. He wanted to grab Tessa, hit her, and ask her what the hell was wrong with her that she went to drugs in a fight. They knew how the other operated, and this—
Then Hekusha pulled something out, and he saw Tessa turn into that muscled knot that he associated with danger. Merdon’s hand fell to his mace—which he didn’t have because of being healed, nor his armor—and Hekusha spoke.
“Ah, here it is. Lord Gliven Everight, um, new head of House Everight, has a mine filled with what he thinks are Blank-i-pillars? I don’t know what those are. Tessa, I have a map here. Clear them out and report back. I have a Wistram carriage ready too.”
“Clear them—?”
Merdon blinked as Tessa stared at the ground. He balked instantly.
“I’m not healed, and my armor’s in shambles. Everight is far from here!”
“Reachable in a day with a carriage.”
“Who’s Lord Gliven? I thought House Everight was dead or something.”
There’d been a fuss about it, but Hekusha shrugged.
“Maybe he was installed into the family? I don’t know, but I don’t mean you, Merdon. Tessa can do it.”
That made less sense to Merdon.
“If it’s filled with Blankipillars, then it’s not a one-team job. That’s a full sweep with a Gold-rank team and a Named-rank. Especially if they’ve metamorphosed.”
He had been part of Orchestra, and he knew more monsters than most adventurers. If it really was that species, even he and Tessa wouldn’t kill them easily if they were in their non-larval forms. But Hekusha was calm.
“Tessa can do it. Didn’t she clear Creler-nests solo?”
“Yeah, for coin. But I don’t have any good gear, and I just got healed.”
“So? I did cast [Restoration].”
Hekusha looked blank, and Merdon clarified.
“You don’t fight well after healing, even if it’s perfect. Mentally, you’re less sharp, and your muscles don’t work quite right.”
“But you’re healed.”
That wasn’t the same as being ready to go. Hekusha lost interest with the explanations quickly and flapped the papers impatiently at Tessa.
“I’ll heal you. Just go in, clear the mines—it doesn’t even have to be perfect so long as the nasty…things are gone, and once you’re gone, Lord Gliven will take care of the rest.”
Was that a contract she was waving about? Merdon glanced at it as Tessa wavered.
“I, um, if it’s a big mine, I need backup. Local Watch and potions and…”
“Tessa, I can heal you. And you have caused a lot of trouble.”
Tessa’s eyes were flicking around like someone trying to escape a cage. She licked her lips.
“What if I—I went to this [Lord]’s rooms instead? That’s easier.”
Merdon half-swivelled, and even Hekusha blinked. Tessa rushed on.
“I know I’m not very pretty, but I can buy creams and illusion magic, and I’m Named-rank. That’s worth…something. I forget how much.”
For a second, Hekusha’s eyes flickered, but she shook her head almost immediately, and Merdon let out a huge breath.
“…No. No, that is unseemly and—this is the service you can provide, Tessa. We are not running a brothel. Do you think I’d make you do that? You can slay monsters easily, Tessa!”
The Drake woman didn’t seem reassured by Hekusha’s words. She fidgeted, fiddling with a dagger.
“Yeah, but…it’s dangerous, and you don’t want me to be hurt that badly, right, Hekusha? I lost a tooth today, too.”
Tessa’s voice was very small, and she stared up and smiled at the Healer. Her gap-toothed smile met Hekusha’s too-warm smile as she rose and embraced Tessa with her hands. She pushed Tessa back a bit, then cupped her cheeks.
“I know you can do this. And you need to make it up to me, all this healing, Tessa. You’re taking too many drugs. Less of that. Be good, do the job, and you’ll be back here by midnight. [Healer’s Orders]. Off you go.”
This time, the Drake just paused there for one moment before she nodded, swivelled on her feet, and began to wander towards the doors. Merdon was speechless. Hekusha stood there, and he waited for Tessa to pivot. To balk or refuse or draw those blades.
But she went. Then, Hekusha ditched the smile and drank a third cup of wine, fast.
“When she comes back, I want you to make sure the city is secure, Merdon. No more killers, and ensure the adventurers and Watch are manning the gates. Have you heard of The Wandering Inn? Some [Princess] there keeps demanding I turn Tessa over to her. As if she’s her possession!”
“I’ve heard of that inn.”
That was all Merdon managed. He kept gazing the way Tessa had gone. He wasn’t scared of her any longer. All the deadliness, the unpredictable energy, that hunger that she filled with madness…was gone.
And now, her tail was dragging on the ground. She wasn’t fighting Hekusha’s Skill, though he knew she could.
We are Named-rank adventurers. He didn’t want her to come tearing back this way. And he knew Hekusha had every right to demand what she wanted of Tessa, who would pay every price.
Yet she seemed empty. Too tired to argue, even if it meant walking into a nest of…
Hekusha was still speaking.
“—threatened me. I told you about her. Now she’s claiming Tessa. She says it’s for Tessa’s ‘wellbeing’, as if I’m mistreating her. But she clearly wants to take advantage of Tessa.”
“Mhm. What, put her to work?”
The Healer of Tenbault waved away her wine cup and servant.
“Get me a tonic of Remove Alcohol or whatever it’s called, dear. No, Merdon, use her unfairly. I get value out of Tessa. It’s a fair relationship. But this ‘Princess’, bah. It reminds me of Magnolia Reinhart, you know. Have I ever talked to you about her?”
Only when drunk. Merdon stood there, and she went on, taking silence for encouragement.
“She helped me learn my spell, of course. I shan’t deny that. But I paid my debts to her. Yet even now, the woman seems to think I owe her. That’s the relationship I hate the most. Her thinking I should be in her favor for one spell all my life. I worked to learn it and to cast it more than once or twice a day! But she kept pushing me, even when I was starting out. Remember when Tenbault was just a house in a village?”
“Yes.”
Screaming as the acid was burning its way across his eyes and throat, knowing he was ruined for life. Drawing that last breath even as he knew it was burning his throat to shout to save them all—blackness.
Waking up to see her smiling and standing over him, sweat covering her face, the sounds of Orchestra yelling and rushing to hug him. Healer of Tenbault.
Renderer of miracles.
Crowdcaller Merdon glanced around Hekusha’s mansion.
“It was a beautiful house. You were radiant back then.”
The Healer of Tenbault bristled.
“My looks may have faded slightly since then, I admit.”
“I didn’t mean—”
“The house was all I could afford. Magnolia gave me some support, but the rest? Everything else, hiring you, my investment in the city? That was me, Merdon. And she kept poking me to ‘do more’. To give away my wealth, to cast my spell for free. I put the lottery in place! Everything else I earned. But then she wanted me to—to—give away my magic. To ruin myself. To do all the hard work for this spell and toss a lifetime of studies to the wind.”
He said nothing. To the Named-rank adventurer, it did sound insane. He couldn’t imagine Deniusth or himself doing that. It was a crazy thing to ask an adventurer who loved money and power.
The Healer of Tenbault, the worker of miracles, lifegiver, pursed her mouth as if it spit on her own carpeted rugs. Then she turned.
“This [Princess] is coming for my Tessa. Don’t let her into the city.”
“Is she bringing an army or something? How is a [Princess] in Izril?”
Merdon roused himself from his circular thoughts to ask salient questions, but the Healer merely turned away.
“I had some [Spies] look into her, but they have all kinds of far-fetched rumors. I’ll have the report sent to you. You’re a Named-rank adventurer. Just shout at her if she tries anything.”
She left him standing there, and he walked back to his rooms and sat after having his backup armor taken out of storage and assembled for him. Then he did some reading.
The Wandering Inn. Merdon recalled that the Haven had gone there. The more he read the reports, the more he stopped. But unlike Hekusha…
Goblin affiliation with Chieftain Rags of Flooded Waters Tribe.
Erin Solstice.
Horns of Hammerad—Merdon’s eyes flicked back and forth like a man connecting invisible dots, and his stomach began to hurt the more dots he saw.
Goblin Chieftain Rags. Wasn’t that tribe the one who kidnapped…? That [Innkeeper] had died and come back to life, hadn’t she?
Someone in need of healing. And she was affiliated with the Horns of Hammerad.
The Horns that Colthei had joined. Colthei, who knew talent. The last kid among the old guard. And a [Princess] from Calanfer.
The inn, related to the Knights of Solstice. The inn, allied to Goblins. Merdon swallowed.
I have my voice. I have my voice, and Tessa’s…Tessa. Who would want her?
No one would dare attack Tenbault. Except a madwoman.
I have the Watch. The walls.
He was alone. A Named-rank without a team. One of the cowards of his kind. Not the madfolk still adventuring into death or glory. Just a guard dog for the Healer.
Tessa. After a while, Merdon put down the spy reports and sat there. Doing vocal warmups for the night. Finding a map. Looking up Everight and confirming that no ‘Lord Gliven’ existed as a relative. So where had he come from? When Merdon sent a runner to the Mage’s Guild, he got a reply that Lord Gliven was a distant relative not on the family lineage who’d been found after Lord Toldos had died. A number of nobles had ratified his lineage, including two Reinharts.
Then Merdon opened a little-used bestiary and read on Blankipillars, their habitats. He sat after that, simply thinking.
Sat…ordered some food. Read a book.
After a long, long, long time…
The coach returned. He watched the magical carriage roll into the plaza and the doors open. Merdon closed his book.
“Hekusha, healer needed in the plaza. Tessa.”
His speaking stone chirped, and Hekusha’s voice was irritable.
“I have a guest from Ailendamus, and I’ll see to her afterwards.”
Merdon dropped the speaking stone. He drew a breath and spoke as he turned to the balcony. The curtains ripped off their grommets, and his voice rolled across all of Tenbault. Bouncing off walls, freezing people in the street. Causing a woman in her mansion to jolt and begin moving before her body knew what was happening.
“Healer to the courtyard. Run.”
 
——
 
The Healer of Tenbault was clutching at her side and looked like she’d hurt herself running, which you had to admit was objectively hilarious.
But there was something rather credible about a Healer running to save lives. It was, in her guests’ opinion, the only thing credible about the woman.
However, they didn’t tell her that. They were all smiles and polite reserve when she came back, apologizing for the delay.
“When one of my patients is hurt, I must fly, of course.”
“Only naturally. Was that Crowdcaller Merdon himself I heard?”
“Merdon? Yes, my bodyguard. And I was healing Shriekblade, another employee of mine. Her services in eliminating monsters and other such matters are in trial, but if you had any tasks while you were visiting Izril, um, Lady…”
“Shierxun.”
The taller of the two women held out a hand, and Hekusha shook it, but to her surprise, the Terandrian noble of Ailendamus indicated the younger woman sitting and inspecting Hekusha with a faint smile.
“However, I defer to Lady Paxere, who is the head of our little family at the moment.”
“Oh my, so young. I do apologize, Lady Paxere of House Shoel. I, ah, knew a young matriarch who rose to prominence much as you did. Lady Magnolia Reinhart, a dear friend of mine.”
Hekusha smiled as Paxere held out a hand, and the younger Lucifen inclined her head.
“You do seem like a true servant of House Reinhart, Healer Hekusha. Truly, if there is anyone deserving to serve one of the Five Families of Izril, no less, it is you.”
The [Restoration Mage]’s face tightened a second, but then she was all smiles again.
“I, um, thank you! I am independent, however. All the noble families of Izril come to Tenbault for my services. Which is why I am delighted to aid one of Terandria’s noblewomen. Lady Gadrea was hurt while my people were fighting a serial killer. These things happen, of course—”
“Of course, but we had to just teleport over when we heard. It was lucky we were in the area, wasn’t it, Paxere?”
Shierxun drawled, and Paxere rolled her eyes.
“She is a handful at times. Our wayward lamb—we do not resemble each other, of course. Her side of the family has hereditary issues.”
“I did notice. I, ah, am sure my magic will correct all there is to be fixed. Though it is not a perfect spell.”
Hekusha licked her lips, and Paxere’s eyes brightened.
“Oh my, is it a spell? I thought it was a great miracle. Then, do you teach it?”
“Teach it? No, nonono, and do forgive me, it’s a spell but also Skills. I, ah, I can see Lady Gadrea at once; I was just informed she was busy ministering to some people in the city?”
The Healer wasn’t too clear about that, and both ladies grimaced. Paxere glanced out the window.
“The first thing she did was demand some gold to tend to those she saw as needy.”
“Despite the, er, holes in her body? And a ruptured…”
“Artery. An important part of the body, or so one assumes.”
Shierxun put in, watching Hekusha’s face. The Healer tapped her lips thoughtfully.
“Artery. Artery. Indeed, a terrible thing to rupture. I will heal it, of course!”
“Doubtless it could wait. I admire your ability to triage the most vitally wounded in order of importance, Lady Hekusha.”
“Well, one does develop an instinct after so long in the business.”
All three women smiled at each other, though Hekusha had the faintest impression she was not quite aligning with the two ladies on some level. Paxere glanced out the window again.
“And your city is positively amazing, Healer. So many people waiting for your miracles. Did you know we work as judges in Ailendamus?”
“Oh my, despite being nobles?”
Shierxun produced a badge with scales on it, weighing a horn against a feather.
“It is our calling. I find myself compelled to judge all those I come across. I wonder, Healer, how your deeds would weigh on that scale. I cannot help but imagine you have a weight beyond counting on your side.”
An odd way to flatter her, but Hekusha simply smiled and had more wine poured for them all.
“Well, if you would care to recommend me to any nobles of Terandria, I should be delighted to heal their maladies as well. Ah, not to be direct, but I know my patient is waiting—there is the custom of a small donation, you see.”
Paxere smiled brightly, and her red eyes lit up.
“Only naturally! Of course, Gadrea was injured by—Shriekblade you said? With a [Serial Killer] roaming your city? I believe she was also being imprisoned in the Plague District despite being completely well?”
Hekusha hesitated as a [Clerk] headed over with a clipboard.
“Ah, er…all regrettable incidents. I do hope you will not repeat some of the details; purely for public ease of mind, you understand. Midnight’s Laughter is gone, and my adventurers keep the city safe.”
“Only naturally. Allow House Shoel to make an appropriate donation—if you were to heal Lady Gadrea’s hereditary ailments, we would of course tip you a fortune. What would you put upon Gadrea’s health, Paxere?”
“A hundred thousand gold coins.”
Hekusha’s eyes bulged, and the [Clerk] inhaled as Paxere said it instantly. The young lady tilted her head.
“No, a million. I imagine King Itorin himself would throw open his treasuries for such a deed. Healing Gadrea, much less the rest of her kinsfolk, from her family’s hereditary illness would be a miracle of miracles.”
Hekusha’s beaming face froze.
“Er, hereditary, you said?”
“Absolutely. Incurable by so many magics—we have tried Djinni and even a Scroll of Regeneration, but her kinfolk have always lived such pained lives. I cannot help but weep to think of it—oh, do excuse me.”
Lady Shierxun patted at her eyes with a handkerchief. Paxere took over, dabbing at her own eyes.
“Do forgive us, Healer. Doubtless, she came here seeking your miracle cure. And to receive an audience—we shall shout your wonders across Terandria, House Shoel’s word upon it! I should not be so crass as to offer a million gold pieces to a woman of such charity as you, but whatever donation you feel is appropriate to your station. Simply speak the number, Healer, and I swear it shall be paid.”
She beckoned for the quill as Hekusha and the [Clerk] exchanged a side-eye. They’d tried a Scroll of Regeneration and it was a hereditary disease—Hekusha licked her lips.
“Ah—ah—give me a moment to confer?”
She didn’t see Paxere and Shierxun eye her as she hurried to whisper with her [Clerk]. After a moment, one of the two Lucifen glanced around the mansion. Paxere lifted a handkerchief to her nose and grimaced.
This place stank in ways neither of them could explain to those not of their kind. But worse than that…when Hekusha returned to quote a very, very low number of gold pieces, she wavered.
“Oh my, may I offer you another glass or refreshments, Lady Paxere?”
The lady blushed across her dusky features as Shierxun chuckled.
“Do forgive me, Healer. I should not like to trouble you long. Gadrea is waiting. I’m merely a bit…peckish.”
She licked her rather sharp teeth. Hekusha sighed.
“I would love to invite you for dinner, but…”
Paxere beamed and rose to her feet with Shierxun.
“It would be my pleasure to dine on your company, Lady Healer.”
The [Restoration Mage] wavered, then gave up and waved a vague hand.
“Ah, um, well—very good. I’ll have the servants set some more plates.”
 
——
 
Tormenting the Healer of Tenbault was only a distraction for Paxere, really. Eating with the woman was actually more annoying for Paxere than she wanted, but she couldn’t resist.
Shierxun was less approving, as was Gadrea. She flexed her arms and grimaced.
“Barely healed.”
“She didn’t even restore your flesh?”
Paxere was speaking to the brisk Agelum packing a rucksack of provisions. Shierxun was trying to reason with her, but Gadrea simply hefted the rucksack onto her shoulders.
“She was tired, and the fact she healed me at all proves she has Skills. Just not enough to do more than that. I’m leaving. Thank you for the help, but I told Visophecin what I wrote: it is my journey. I’m surprised he quit and left you in charge.”
Paxere flushed, but Gadrea was direct, as most Agelum could be. Shierxun murmured.
“Let us say that the elder members felt our judgement both impaired and our numbers reduced. Paxere leads by her merits. As long as they exceed her failures, she continues. I am merely here to ensure those failures do not reflect overly upon the kingdom.”
Paxere was not happy about that, but Shierxun was imperious, cold, and weighed lives with a dispassion even her fellow Lucifen admired. She inspected Gadrea, who met her gaze challengingly.
“If you perish, try to avoid bringing misfortune on Ailendamus. Or send back any valuable conclusions to House Shoel. Between the loss of yourself and Razia, as well as so many of our folk, we require some balancing.”
“Spoken fairly enough, cousin. I am grieved to hear of your parents’ deaths, Paxere. They surely fought like [Heroes].”
Gadrea met Paxere’s gaze, and the Lucifen girl turned away. She spoke, flushing coldly.
“They wasted their lives in a foolish endeavour. I am making the best of it. Visophecin’s judgement was in error.”
“They died in great deeds. It was not nothing.”
“It was foolish.”
Paxere would have stepped away, but a hand grabbed her shoulder like steel itself, and Gadrea’s eyes shone.
“No. It was not.”
Outrage flared in Paxere’s body. She experienced the emotion like molten metal coursing through her veins, a rising gorge of fury in her chest that beat like black wings. To Lucifen, hatred and anger were not entirely unpleasant emotions.
They could revel in negativity. She had once heard a [Lady] of her age describing fury to a [Thought Healer] like madness, some kind of all-consuming worm in one’s mind eating sense and reason.
Not so for Paxere. She had never lost herself to her worst furies. It always made her cold. Alive. Animosity was unto a pleasure even as it made her long to strike Gadrea, but there was no practical reason for it.
“Let go.”
Gadrea was beyond strong, but Paxere shifted, trying to throw her as she’d been taught, and the Agelum adjusted her grip—then grunted. Both were shocked and shared the same thought in the flicker of their eyes.
She’s stronger than she should be.
For Gadrea, it was the strength thought lost to the Agelum; they could only muster bursts of their true power and paid for it greatly. But she had fought, been wounded, and been standing and moving all day with no ill effects.
She should have been bedridden for months from this, let alone her journey. Truly, Gadrea had found something.
By the same token—Lucifen were strong, but not this strong. Gadrea felt like Paxere were half again as strong, and there was a tautness to her skin that made the Agelum think she could take far more of a punch than before.
Child, what have you done? A gleam in Paxere’s eyes then a flick right—
Shierxun was watching both Angel and Devil struggle, brows raised politely, as if waiting for two children to stop bickering. They stopped wrestling for momentum and locked gazes. The Lucifen and Agelum stayed still in perfect, utter disagreement until Shierxun extended a hand, and Gadrea abruptly let go and stepped back.
“Another example of why we are so unalike. Tell me, cousin, where do you go from here?”
Gadrea made a face. She didn’t glance at Paxere, who stood back and adjusted her clothing. The politics of House Shoel. Let us not destabilize each other’s positions, eh? Gadrea bared her teeth.
“Southwards.”
“Mm. To the Walled Cities? We could call for one of Wistram’s amusing carriages to speed your way.”
And tell you where I’m going so you can meddle in your kindly, unkindly ways? No. Gadrea snorted.
“I prefer my solitude. With great appreciation for your help, cousins.”
Shierxun rolled her eyes.
“Yes, yes. Great appreciation and distaste for any help. In five more days, we doubtless would have found you naked, having sold everything to feed some waif on the roads and prostituting yourself for coin. Highly amusing, but alas.”
She looked wistful as if wishing she’d caught Gadrea so. The Agelum woman crossed her arms. Truly, she did not get along with some Lucifen. It was in their natures, for all they’d lived together since Curulac of a Hundred Days.
Easier, perhaps, when I was so ill I could not move and I relied on them. But Gadrea had not spent her life without picking up Lucifen savvyness, which Agelum could lack.
She doesn’t know about what I’m sensing. Nor have the other Agelum told her, if they even felt where on Izril it is. Liscor…she made her features as guileless as they thought of her and snapped her fingers.
“There is somewhere I’d go, first. I heard the strangest rumor that Duke Rhisveri was seen at—Liscor, was it? What brings him there?”
Shierxun snorted, and Paxere rolled her eyes. The older woman replied.
“It is beyond the pale to tell the story now, Gadrea. He has some interest there. But we would take it as a boon if you did not encourage his distractions.”
Gadrea made a show of tapping one foot and glancing towards the High Passes.
“I could head that way. I had thought to climb one of the High Passes just once before I die.”
“All the better to visit Liscor, then. If only to see the city. I believe it sells charms, and it has a number of new species including the Antinium. And at least one orphanage. You could juggle babies or some such.”
Intriguing indeed. Shierxun was trying to get her to visit Liscor in her own way, and she clearly wrote Liscor off as Gadrea’s actual destination. She was rather…presumptious, actually. She didn’t understand that Gadrea was playing her.
Paxere, though, was very silent and smooth-faced. Gadrea pretended not to be looking at her and wondered if, perhaps, the younger Lucifen was more adept than her elders gave her credit for. She seemed to understand that the balance of power had shifted. Gadrea nodded.
“I suppose you’re right, Shierxun.”
The Agelum acquiesced, and the Lucifen nodded, not realizing that this time, it was because she was being duped. Gadrea would go to Liscor, anyways, but she wondered if Rhisveri had tapped into what she had.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus has knowledge beyond any other immortal. Perhaps he’s found what I seek by different means. If we clash, we clash. He and I will talk before we come to blows, and we might help each other, self-serving as he is. 
She was excited, Shierxun, clearly done with this conversation now that she’d manipulated Gadrea enough and gotten information about her next destination. Gadrea would have to evade a few [Spies]; she’d pull the tracking spell Shierxun had placed on her off tomorrow. It felt like slime. The Lucifen always forgot the Agelum might not be spellcasters, but they could deal with magic. Shierxun nodded to her.
“Fair thee well, cousin. Will you not stay and make this tedious dinner with the Healer amusing?”
“I long to scrub my tongue of this place. No, I shall not stay. I do not know how you tolerate her.”
In response, the two Lucifen smiled as one.
“It whets the appetite.”
This time, it was the Agelum’s turn to roll her eyes, and she hefted the rucksack up. She turned back only once.
“I feel poorest for that Drake girl the Healer was tending to. Were I back in Ailendamus, I would take her into House Shoel’s custody, but she is too far, too important, and I think, too dangerous.”
Paxere tapped at her lips thoughtfully.
“The one called Shriekblade? She’s addled by drugs, isn’t she?”
Gadrea’s eyes were sad as she turned away.
“Lost to them. And the Healer uses her like a Djinni of war, to see how close to death she lay. I had thought to try to talk to her, but…she saw something of my capabilities and is wary. She was already lost when I visited. Of all the world’s ill creations, such substances take hope the most.”
Neither Lucifen had anything to say to that rather reasonable statement. Paxere glanced out the window where they heard a faint, rhythmic cry. Like someone laughing or weeping.
“I was rather amazed at her tolerances. Three Minotaurs wouldn’t have survived what she took, by my calculations. It must prolong her lifespan, her levels. A cyclical relationship. Reduced lifespan versus rising levels.”
Gadrea snapped the leather strings of the rucksack. She turned and strode out the door, calling out only once over her shoulder.
“Someday, cousins, I hope for a world where everyone can be helped. Even her. I am only one pair of hands.”
It was a variation of how they always parted. Paxere called back to Gadrea as she lifted a hand.
“Someday, cousin, I will create a system where her kind shall not exist. And judge her every step and how it came to be.”
Then they parted, dark and fair, champion and predator. Upon their divergent roads. But neither Agelum nor Lucifen saw a path forwards.
Not for Shriekblade. She lay in her rooms, her entire stash of drugs shredded, imbibed, or just burning as servants tried to break down the door to put out the haze of smoke that dropped a Gold-rank adventurer who passed through it. And Tessa was gone.
Higher, higher, spinning out of cruel reality. Further than she had gone almost—almost—
Ever.
 
——
 
That was how you did it. You left. Sometimes, it was a cigar, like the Centaur blowing on one after work.
Or other times the door was found in the needle you pushed up an arm. An ampule of dusky liquid sold to you by a [Fence].
There were many doors. But so few…worked right. It had to be just right, you see. Too much or too little and you wouldn’t find it. Most of the ones who left reality were experts. Lifers, though the ones with the most experience tended not to touch the hardest stuff.
Still, they all came here. Temporary, flailing bursts of color who vanished, dissolving. Or those who found their way here, time and again, buoyed up by gentler currents.
Where was ‘here’? Ah, well…it wasn’t so much a place as a community. It appeared different to each person, but it was here they met.
The Centaur smoking his pipe was low down, a hazy cloud of Dreamleaf floating on his gentle yet intense high. His was all pleasant thoughts of his love, a daydream about her cooking barefoot in her kitchens and chuckling over the play-on-words.
But if Palt cast around, he had the vaguest…sense of community. If he had a bit more vantage, he might have sensed a few others.
Like, for instance, in the city of Celum, a boy who’d gotten into a packet of strange powder he’d found in a dropped bag of holding. He’d gotten a faceful of Arrowsmoke, and he shot past Palt, a screaming, whirling panic of senses.
Arrowsmoke made you sharper, but too much and you felt like your face was turning into a bunch of lines. Smell became a direction you could use to draw a map—if only you could stop your eyes falling out of your face.
The boy screamed once and vanished. Unable to remain…here. He’d be a shaking, juddering mess until his family found him and called for a [Healer]. Not enough of himself to remain, you see.
But there was another drinker around Palt’s level of high. Only, the Drowned Man had come down on Elf’s Tears, oozing out of the sky in a rain like the drug until the world was a single note he could understand. He and Palt glanced at each other only once, and Palt waved. The Drowned Man took another drink and sank upwards.
They did not really want to go that much further upwards. This was…comfortable. Most people hung here, the amateurs, the first-triers. Any higher and you didn’t last unless you were a professional, and how high did you want to go? And who were they?
Palt never really remembered. Not when he came out of those clouds. It was just a vibe he had. A feeling. But perhaps, if he ever ran into someone who bought his wares, he’d have that sense of déjà vu. As if they’d met somewhere, and the two would smile.
One of the people he half-knew was the woman who rose past him and the Drowned Man, rising above all the others. He craned his head back as she floated past him on a cloud of Dreamleaf he envied and a shower of tears.
“High today.”
“Mm.”
That was all the Drowned Man said. They watched the [Princess] fly higher. Away, oh, away.
Princess Shardele could fly into that transforming, shifting sky of colors like a bird. Higher than anyone. They waved at her, her comrades and friends. Admiring how she approached the very top of the sky itself. Today, she was flying high, and she was so talented. In this.
Shardele was running away. She shed reality in huge, fat tears of actualization as the Dreamleaf became a cloud, and she rained her grief and memories for a moment, just floating, her mind reaching out to brilliant things she could see only here. The sky became a radiant blaze, and she could admire a simple tree and understand why it was so beautiful. A child’s insight, a poet’s reprise—and a dream of being happy.
—The tears rained down, and one was a memory of this morning.
 
——
 
“Incorrect.”
Shardele flinched as Ielane spoke, and her mother’s voice was no rod across the shoulders, but it felt like one, sometimes. Adamantium.
She wished her father were here. Reclis never got angry, but her mother was her teacher. Ielane was pulling on a cigarette, and she spoke again.
“Your understanding of Calanfer’s economy is not a matter of opinion, it is a matter of fact. Don’t equate that with policy or politics.”
“But you can always borrow money, Mother.”
Shardele whined, staring at the cigarette and wondering if Ielane would just be kinder if that were a nice, fat roll of Dreamleaf. She wished she could smoke on one, but Ielane had forbidden her to take any. Especially during their lessons. Ielane stubbed the cigarette out, then exhaled some smoke.
“You may change Calanfer’s realities, but the amounts of gold in our coffers and what is pledged are hard numbers. Enough. Your tutors will attend you twice more this week.”
“But Mother, I already have—”
Ielane silenced Shardele with one look. The First Princess of Calanfer wanted to argue she was Calanfer’s heir and eldest [Princess]. Her husband was Consort Duke Thimiran, one of Calanfer’s foremost nobles, and even if he was not a great warrior, he was a powerful man with a huge selection of industries all in service of the crown!
She had done so much for Calanfer by marrying him. And he was loyal and loved their children and all that. She didn’t often speak of Thimiran with her sisters, the few left in the palace. Nor did he come up because, well…
He was Thimiran. He’d be [King] when she took the throne, but he wasn’t the family. And it was she, Shardele, who had all the pressure upon her. The family led Calanfer. Thimiran was loyal; she and he liked each other well enough and knew to let the other live happily, and they had good nursemaids for the children.
Shardele wondered when Ielane would train them. She didn’t want to do it. When she was [Queen], she’d be nicer to everyone. But the Queen of Calanfer in the present only spoke.
“Shardele. It has been a trying week. Focus. Let us move to politics. What would you suggest our next move in this long, and now drawn-out, war with Ailendamus should be?”
Open-ended questions. Shardele hated those. She was being trained to be next [Queen] of Calanfer, and it was…hard.
She wasn’t Menisi, who was gifted, but disloyal. Shardele hated thought-exercises, memorizing policy, but Ielane drilled it into her. Took away her privileges and allowance if she failed to study. Of course, it was because Shardele was important.
She was going to rule Calanfer, and her mother taught only her so much. Shardele just thought it was too hard. She’d hoped, once, that maybe Menisi would…and Seraphel had been so sharp…
Only her. Vernoue had run off on her adventures, and Aielef was too hot-headed. Lyonette was a brat, Ellet was young, and her brothers were bound to other nations.
Only her. There were some upsides: Shardele might get Ielane’s wrath, but they did things no other [Princess] got to do. Like gamble. Ielane loved to gamble, and she’d play all kinds of games with Shardele some nights.
That was special. That was their secret, and even if Shardele didn’t like the games that much, she played with her mother and had even won a few times, getting that rare smile.
Right now, though, Ielane seemed pained, and Shardele hesitated.
“Is it because of all the nosebleeds, Mother? Is it something the [Healers] could—”
“No. I have complete understanding of my symptoms and the causes, Shardele. I am focused. Ailendamus. Give me a hypothetical action. I have passed, and Reclis is dead. The people’s confidence in the Eternal Throne shakes. We are at war, and Ailendamus is building up while we have neither momentum nor troops to push beyond border-raids. Your actions.”
Shardele fidgeted. She squirmed, wringing her hands together. Then—
“U-um. Have Kaliv strike with their Griffins. Decisively! Then we’ll bid for peace.”
Dead silence from Ielane. She gazed at Shardele.
“Why?”
Oh, that dreaded question. Shardele avoided Ielane’s gaze.
“W-well, I think it’d look like something the people would respect, Mother. Public opinion and all that. It might scare Ailendamus, and then we could sue for peace, even if we gave up some territory or gold…?”
She knew it wasn’t the answer Ielane wanted, but the [Queen]’s flat tone made Shardele realize she had messed up badly.
“Completely incorrect. How are you erring this poorly? Are you that impatient to be done with this? Is it the Dreamleaf?”
“I-I just thought it might work. And it’s been a long day, Mother.”
And I’m tired of all these lessons! Why are you being so hard on me now? Ielane and Reclis were young! But suddenly, she was making Shardele work twice as hard, as if Shardele was failing all of Ielane’s rising expectations.
Why? Shardele was no incompetent. She wasn’t! With her mother, she complained and she hated lessons and having her allowance cut—what adult woman wouldn’t? But you know what she wasn’t?
A failure. She’d passed Ielane’s tests. She hadn’t had a tryst with a lover that resulted in public embarrassment, she had the affections of the Eternal Throne’s courts, she even had the support of her grandparents, who had sway in Calanfer. The people loved her—even if a lot of that was due to the Eternal Throne’s [Bards] and agents; Shardele was the [Princess] heir apparent that she needed to be.
Not a genius in politics or a sharp-as-razors mastermind like her parents. But she had time. She was the girl with all the pressure and eyes upon her, and you know what? Sometimes she was high on Dreamleaf, and maybe everyone knew that. But that was the only thing that kept her from snapping.
Snapping because she had no real friends who weren’t counting their allegiances or there for her power. Snapping because she and her husband didn’t love each other. Snapping because she had her mother breathing down her neck at all moments, and she had an allowance and lived with her parents even now. Snapping because every moment she was outside she was in the public eye, snapping because of all the pressure and expectations on her—
She knew more than she let on, and it could drive you insane, knowing the secrets of a kingdom. Shardele would have become some cynical, bitter, untrusting woman if she didn’t have the Dreamleaf. It let her feel like she was young and the world had hope in it. She had done well enough. She thought she’d been meeting Ielane’s impossibly-high bars, if not to clear them, enough to be the best [Princess] for the job.
Until now.
Shardele wanted to have some Dreamleaf in her lovely rooms, but Ielane’s voice was like a razor cutting through her hopes and dreams.
“Shardele du Marquin. There are a thousand reasons to make any decision, politically. The most heinous acts may be done for the sake of expediency. Even emotions are a valid reason if they are understood and accounted for. Conviction is an essential trait. Seeming, catering to your notion of what other people would perceive or want, is the weakest of all reasons. You. Know. This. You are not thinking. Engage your mind or I will view your habit as addling your capacity to act as a [Princess] of Calanfer.”
“That’s not fair, I’ve been doing my best! You already took away my Dreamleaf for a week!”
Shardele burst out, close to tears. Ielane’s brows bobbed up in genuine surprise.
“Your best? That is what you consider your best? No, Shardele, I am pushing you moderately hard, and you are folding. You and I both know you are capable of more. A week? I will remove your access for a year if I must.”
“You can’t! You can’t! That’s not right!”
“Stop squalling. I will remove it if you do not demonstrate you have the capacity to function despite your indulgences. Shardele, stop weeping this instant. Other rulers have peccadillos far more dire than yours, but they are functional. Sit up. Respond.”
“I—I can’t breathe. You’re stressing me out. I just need an edible—”
Shardele was panting for air, and she needed a breath of it, but Ielane refused to let her go.
“You will be pressed far harder as [Queen]. Sit and either confront me or address my grievances with you. Flee and I will run you down, Shardele.”
“You’re using your aura! That’s not fair!”
Shardele was shaking now, crying and backing away from the painful intensity Ielane was throwing at her. The [Queen]’s brows were a line of annoyance.
“I’m barely nettling you. Use your aura and training, Shardele. Light of Calanfer, you should win an aura-clash!”
“No one in the family has ever had to win an aura-clash, even father! You said it was too hard for anyone but you, Mother!”
Shardele wailed as she retreated to the door—the chair was sliding backwards. Ielane paused. Her aura flickered for a moment. She opened her lips.
“—My standards have changed. Shardele, sit down and demonstrate to me that you have earned the right to keep your lifestyle. If you run, I will begin restricting you until you show me improvement. Think logically. You know running will make this worse. Sit down and—”
The [Princess of Hazy Inspirations] fled. Sobbing, knowing her mother spoke the truth, and hating every moment of this cruel, organized reality that made her so pathetic. Running into her rooms and dragging a chair across the door, reaching for her Dreamleaf bowl and puffing it until she was soaring. Higher, higher into that space they shared, to get away from it all.
 
——
 
—In her study, Ielane stared at the door, in a dark mood as Dame Vensha closed the door Shardele had thrown open.
“You may be pushing her too hard, Ielane. She’s not ready for more.”
“Lyonette won an aura-clash with a [Princess] on hostile ground. Menisi could use her aura when she was ten.”
The 2nd Princess of Calanfer and 6th Princess were, in a way, the instruments of Shardele’s misery. Vensha glanced at the [Queen] meaningfully and handed her a handkerchief.
“Neither one is without flaw. Is the…poor gambler pressing?”
“It’s handled, Vensha. Get me an expert on Dreamleaf. Her levels were one thing, but if this is really clouding her mind…”
Ielane bent her mind back to her work. And she had no idea, no idea at all. She viewed Dreamleaf as a thing you could account for. An addler of senses in some ways, a bringer of happy, silly vibes.
Not really detrimental; she’d tried it herself and thought she ‘understood’ Dreamleaf. Hence why she’d allowed her daughter’s habit; unlike the destructive drugs like Selphid’s Dust or addictive Hazyflower, Dreamleaf had no such downsides.
But she didn’t understand Shardele’s class. If she had thought for a second with that logic she prized, Ielane might have realized—
[Smoker] was a class. [Drunkard] was a class. Negative, positive—there were classes and Skills for all things. This was just another route upon that strange path of levels. And it ran deeper than you knew.
 
——
 
Higher.
Shardele was floating up there. Escaping reality. She joined the panoply of peoples who came here for so many reasons. To enjoy themselves. To get away.
Maybe this gave them few Skills that were useful in other ways. But it was their place. Shardele drifted, seeing the beautiful visions that made her feel like the Eternal Throne should be open to everyone, and she waved at a fellow high-flier.
“Teliiiiim! Hiiiiiii!”
He was pacing around in a circle, having chewed down Carivek, the thinker’s drug, and he was on a tear. The [High Magus] was thinking about magic, and he didn’t often like to do it, but he couldn’t help it.
“Automated casting. Remote rituals. You can put it all together. Eldavin’s giving us drips and drabs. Does he see the puzzle? I could make something…even me, a [High Magus of Illusions]. Do I dare? Can’t see it all—oh, hello, Shardele. Bad day?”
“Sooooo baaaaaaad.”
She was like a spiral of smoke around him, unwilling to commit to the hard thoughts he was embracing. Carivek was a stimulant, but it was all mental. It boosted you—and then took away. Telim would be a sausage for at least a day after this, but he took the trade off.
Controlled, in their ways. They waved at each other, and Telim gestured at the magical formulas he was juggling.
“Can’t make sense of it all. D’you see?”
“I doooooo. That one looks nice. But it’s not complete.”
Shardele pointed, and her hand became a stream of light that danced across his magical sigils, altering them. Telim saw her body distort until she was a falling dawn of light rays in the shape of a smile. He was a collection of magic, elemental types constrained by his fleshy body, vectors of power running through his veins and organs, informed by but not bound wholly to his physical form.
Normal things. In this moment…he turned to his magic, and his jaw dropped.
“That’s it! No, wait. What do you see?”
“I dunoooooooo.”
Both were struggling to figure out what they were seeing. Shardele thought she had a glimpse of something amazing, but she didn’t know the magic, and Telim’s mind was racing faster, trying to piece together something with the power of Carivek.
Like a machine stacking blocks at a rate unmatched by mere hands—but only able to stack the blocks. Never able to throw one skywards like Valeterisa, to spread his wings and fly the same way. He was a tower of intellect, and each block had to be just so—
They had so many ways to get up here. They were regulars, experts, important people in this place that they forgot about when they woke. There was even community here; Shardele knew Telim, a number of [Mages] from Wistram, a [Merchant] who always came in the evenings—she brightened when another of her friends buzzed up. If not so high—she floated down a bit.
“Hellooooo little bee!”
There were even bees here. Sometimes you got animals. Even Wyverns; if they had a [Beastmaster], they could show up. This bee was very large, but she was friendly and buzzed upwards in a happy circle, as Shardele giggled and they flew around each other in crazy patterns, the best of friends. Telim ignored them as he went muttering onwards, and Shardele asked Apista how her day had been.
Naturally, she understood Apista. [Dreamer’s Tongue]. You could get…Skills here. Only they only worked here, and might not be real, but Shardele liked them.
The two were babbling at each other when they looked down, and there was a commotion ‘below’. And they saw her rise, blasting past the little dreams of the Centaur and all the others below.
Rising like a shooting star in reverse. So fast she passed them like a dream of great fish in the sea, terrifyingly large, unknowable, happy and joyous and wracked and confused, a screaming Drake flying on wings of pure thought towards the very roof of the sky itself.
Telim and Shardele paused.
“Oh my.”
“She’s going to reach the top. I’ve never seen her go that far.”
“So…painful.”
Tessa. Tessa made even their vantage points appear miniscule. She was on everything. Dreamleaf, Arrowsmoke, Elf’s Tears, Hazyflower, Selpage and Selphid’s Dust—
It’d kill her. It would have killed Telim or Shardele to take half of what was in Tessa right now. You only reached that high with practice, a kind of terrible training.
Both looked up, then away. You saw people like that, rising on furious Selphid’s Dust, screaming urgency into the air. Fading…fading and trying to climb as high on sheer rage each time.
They vanished from this place first, seldom to return. And Tessa?
Oh, Tessa. She drew her daggers which she carried even here, made of memory and suffering, and challenged the sky itself. Shardele called up at her as Apista fanned her wings, warningly.
“Noooo. Don’t do that. That’s, um, bad. I think?”
Tessa ignored her.
 
——
 
She was on an adventure. A quest, a battle against evil, and she left her body and all the suffering behind and became who she was.
A Drake who had no scars, who twisted upwards in a trail of her hopes, dreams, and ambitions…so many forgotten, faded things. But her form was willpower. She was a billowing cloud of blades, and her daggers were still clutched in her hands. The very edges of her soul that could cut and kill everything.
She was headed up. Straight for the sky itself as the others watched her. She shouted at them to follow her, but they were too far down, and some yelled at her not to do it. But she had to.
Tessa was crying tears of memory. Images of her leaping on Blankipillars half-morphed in the darkness of the cave, blind, stabbing everything that moved as they lacerated her insides, an unending scream—
Leave it behind. But it clung to her like spiderwebs, and her self-loathing was also dripping downwards like piss, little showers of guilt for this trip, for leaving the inn, for—
“I’m so tired of everything! I’m tired of being sick. I want to be well, I want to be cured forever! It’s your fault!”
The Drake screamed at the sky, and, as she reached the top of this place, the sky…
Moved.
It spread its wings made of wavy lines, and a lip made of the horizon curled upwards as its head swung down to her. The people below her cried out and fled, but Tessa?
She was laughing.
There was nothing in this world she couldn’t kill. It was her talent. If this stood between her and happiness? She dove upwards as the guardian of the firmament swung at her with claws made of the dawn falling, babbling in the voices of every person Tessa had ever met, a face of a beautiful [Princess] that stared at Tessa.
The Drake drove her daggers into the cracks of Lyonette’s face guiltily, ignoring the teeth made of the sound of her childhood dying as they dug into her.
They warred, as they had done before, but this time, she’d win. She was trapped up here, buoyed up by all the things she’d consumed, and the only way out was to rip the ceiling apart. Or her body gave out first, and she didn’t care which happened.
 
The Hateful Ceiling and Sky That Looks At You with A Million Eyes – Level 441.
 
What do you do?
[Attack]
[Skills]
[Items]
[Flee]
[Mercy]
[Kill Yourself]
 
She chose Skills. [Hazey Slash]! She dealt 561 damage. Then…[Tearblade of My Regrets]! Another blow that broke the ceiling-sky apart, but it was biting her. 
She took 1453365 damage, but she endured thanks to her passive Skill, [Drugs: Unending Journey]. Keep on the attack. She kept stabbing.
[Pride of the Highest King]! Healing—! 
She was a Named-rank adventurer. Her teeth were bared in a grin, and she was winning as she cut one of its manifold wings off. It laughed and thanked her.
I’m doing it. I’m saving myself. I’m going to be happy.
 
——
 
“She’s winning.”
Shardele was watching the battle above them, mouth opened. Apista was buzzing in circles, debating going to help or staying clear of the fighting. Telim wasn’t paying attention; he was doing magic, and many of the others weren’t aware of the titanic conflict above them. But they felt it, like ripples migrating down from above.
It was beautiful to the [Princess]. She’d never seen someone fly as high as Tessa and live. Or beat…the ceiling. Sky? Firmament?
Sometimes, they tried in teams, alone, even armies. But it always won. She watched as Tessa drove through the serpentine form coiled above their lovely little world, slashing through a body that was wrapped around everything like a protective egg.
“Tessaaaaaa. Don’t do it. It’s niiiice.”
She tried to talk the Drake down, but Tessa was laughing. She wanted to be free. Shardele hesitated, then waved a wand.
“[Dreaaaaamy Heals].”
She threw a Skill up there because she liked Tessa, then flinched and hid in her clouds as the ceiling-Ruler bared its teeth at her and spat a waterfall of down at her, trying to push her back into reality.
—But that was it. Tessa drove her blades through its head, and those watching gasped as she beheaded the huge body. It kept moving, growing a Hydra’s heads, but her Skills were cutting it apart.
A [Blademistress] beyond Zeladona with Archmage-tier Spells and a lifeforce beyond a Dragon. So few rose to Tessa’s rank—here, at least. It was so hard to survive the many things she had. And now…
She was standing up there, arms raised, as the sky itself died. Shardele watched, open-mouthed as it burst into an infinity of shattering glass. She saw an [Innkeeper]’s face, a Giant of old, a Dragon, a child-[Monk], all staring down at her with compassion and regret.
—Then it died, and Tessa was gasping.
“I did it. I’m free. I’m free.”
Now, Shardele was floating higher, puffing herself upwards. Apista followed, and they were all fascinated.
She actually…? The 1st Princess of Calanfer was staring upwards with Telim and the others. Tessa had killed the sky. Which prompted a question so few had ever asked of this place.
What lay beyond it? Tessa raised her claws skywards and saw what lay above the ceiling.
DARKNESS.
THERE WAS NOTHING BEYOND BUT THE VOID. IT DRIPPED DOWNWARDS AS THE DRAKE’S JOY TURNED TO HORROR. WITHOUT ANYTHING TO KEEP IT AT BAY, IT BEGAN TO RUSH IN.
“No. No, I’m supposed to be free. I—”
The Drake recoiled, but the darkness was flooding in, covering her as she stabbed at it, but this was nothing she could kill. Shardele cried out.
“What is—you killed it. It was protecting us, and you kiiiiilled—”
Tessa was screaming, then, a howl of despair and fury. She had thought—
THEN IT WAS EVERYWHERE. AN OCEAN OF EMPTY NOTHINGNESS DROWNED OUT SHARDELE’S CLOUD AND CAUGHT THE FLEEING BEE. THE [HIGH MAGE] GASPED AS THE WATERS FILLED HIS NOSE AND MOUTH, AND HE WAS DROWNING.
THEY ALL WERE. THE CENTAUR, THE VISITORS, AND THEN THEY SAW THE WORDS LAST OF ALL.
SPILLING DOWNWARDS ABOVE THEIR HEADS AS IT ALL WENT BAD, AND THEY WERE DROWNING IN THE LONG, UNFORGIVING DARK.
 
[Mass Skill: Reality Trips. A Midnight Journey]
 
And it got—
Bad.
 
——
 
A
bad
trip
Where truth
and maybe untruth
were fucking with each other on your sofa
and you were lying in the bathroom in your vomit
Wishing there were a way out. But there isn’t a way out, your eyes are open, and you can’t move, the killer is standing around the doorframe about to murder you, and you know he’s there, and you cannot move. He is waiting, and your breath is in your lungs, and you are lying there as the seconds become infinite hours.
Sitting in an armchair in the trip that will not end, and you know you have to come down off this bad high, drink a glass of water, do something, but each second is an hour, and you’re stuck here. This is infinity, and you’ll die of madness before it ends.
Her fault.
She did this. And now you’re paying the price, and it’s coming for all of you.
 
——
 
The Centaur was running. Running away from something, a huge undead monster chasing him. He’s Palt, but he’s not Palt. He’s Calvaron, and he’s dead.
He sees Montressa and Bezale and Isceil waving at him, but Isceil’s dead too, and Calvaron-Palt knows she only liked him because he reminded her of her former classmate. He’s screaming for help, for his master. Galei.
But there is no Galei. Just a grinning Centaur whose face becomes Taxiela’s, and they melt away as he looks at his apprentice begging for help.
“You’re useful to me as long as it’s funny and amusing, Palt. But I’m never going to be there when you need me. See?”
He points, and Palt comes to an unsteady stop, in his body, and the monster is gone. But behind him, lying in a puddle illuminated by a stage’s light, is Imani.
There’s a hole in her chest, and Crelers are crawling out of it and eating her. Now, Palt is running at her, screaming, but he can only fire [Light Arrows].
He needs more magic, a wand, something, something—but he doesn’t have anything.
The inn. Where’s the inn? He looks around for the person who has all the answers, the [Innkeeper]. And he sees her door waiting for him.
Sanctuary. If he can just carry Imani in there as the Crelers eat his legs…but he’s running. He always runs. Had his chance.
The door—it’s covered up. Boards of wood and nails are blocking it off, and Palt is screaming for her, but then he raises a hammer and drives another nail into the wood. Adding another board as the Crelers begin to eat his legs.
“I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry Imani.”
He’s whispering to her as she sits up, and she’s beautiful and made of bread, and she’s rising past him, becoming something glorious, and she turns to him with a forgiving smile and says:
“I’m leaving you, Palt. You’re pathetic. Palt, are you okay? Palt? Wake up. Wake up, you’re moaning in your sleep. Here, use—”
 
——
 
Palt woke up with a gasp and scream and spat out the clear blue tube in his mouth. He jerked and nearly kicked Imani as she backed up from his flailing legs.
“Palt? Are you okay?”
“Dead gods. What—”
His eyes focused on the blue tube and the remains of a Dreamleaf cigar he’d made. They were in their home, and he—he—
Bad trip. He recognized the blue tube, a Cleanser Stick, and began to pull on it as hard as he could, inhaling the smoke into his lungs and exhaling plumes of discolored green-yellow smog.
Normally, Imani would have shouted at him for that, but her face was utterly concerned.
“I heard you screaming. What was that?”
“Bad trip. Bad—very bad. Thank you for getting me out of it.”
He managed a shaky response, and she blinked at him. Imani had partaken of any number of substances Palt had taught her about, and she eyed the cigar.
“Isn’t that just Dreamleaf? You told me it was practically impossible to have a problem with it.”
“Normally, yeah. But there was—something about—”
The memories were already fading, and Palt was trying to rid his mind of them. He shuddered, then sat there, head bowed, as she went to grab some water for him.
I’m pathetic. Imani was all concern, asking if he needed a [Healer] or something to eat and what he’d seen, but he couldn’t tell her.
Spellbook. I need to study—he saw her lying there, and then he glanced up and smiled at her loving, concerned face.
“Palt? I think you should lay off the Dreamleaf if you’re having negative experiences like that. Or is it that weird world you keep telling me about? Could it be a bad batch from your supplier?”
He stared into her eyes and smiled.
“I love you, Imani. Even when you leave me.”
Her mouth opened, and her brows crossed as she lost the ability to speak for a second.
“—What?”
 
——
 
That was someone who had a way out. Who hadn’t gone far up into that space now flooded and now lay sinking in a jelly of truths and understandings.
They were all…trapped.
—High Magus Telim, wiping at his face, wandering Wistram’s halls as students avoided him, and someone went to find Sa’la. Not having a delusion.
Locked into reality. All the way. His mind piecing together shards of a glass puzzle that cut his fingers to the bone.
“He knows. He knew about Valeterisa’s magic. Even when he saw her achieve it, he didn’t gasp, he didn’t beg her for it like Viltach, Feor, nononono. He knew. He’s known all of it. All the magics. Eldavin pretends he’s got part of the puzzle. He’s got it all. He’s giving it to us piecemeal.”
His eyes were boring holes in everyone he passed, and no one could meet the normally-jovial [High Mage]’s eyes. Telim’s voice was a rising whine.
“Cognita left because he could kill her. What next? What next? Magic on the rise, and he has us. We’re becoming old Wistram. Old Wistram, the ones who broke magic and put it together. Magical imperium. And I’m Terras. I’m there. Armies of summoned beings marching on—Halfling from the sky. Goblin King. He knows it all, and there’s no one who can stop him.”
Stumbling forward, haunted by a [Princess]’ words at a banquet. Seeing flying Earthers in armor. 
“Rihal’s Imperium. Sorcerous towers.”
He threw up at the truths his brain were coming to. He was lying there in a puddle of vomit, curled upwards, muttering, when Sa’la found him and began to cast spells to cleanse him, forcing a potion into his mouth.
But the dread conclusion stayed even when the man awoke. Truth and madness and—
“That damn Drake.”
“Who?”
Sa’la peered around, wondering if a student or another [Mage] had pranked Telim unkindly, but he lay, eyes staring upwards at the ceiling.
“So it’s real after all. Why the hell does it exist? What powers does it grant?”
He sat up and covered his face with a shaking hand.
“For once, I want something to not be important or meaningful. Can I level from wiping my ass right?”
The Selphid reached for another potion bottle, but Telim was out of it. He stared at his rumpled robes with Terras’ new colors on them and then puked again. He was still one of the lucky ones. His truths had been in him all along, just unwilling to be examined.
 
——
 
Shardele woke out of her dreams with no hallucinations. No visions, no nightmares.
Merely…clarity. A kind of clear-headed insight that was so perfect it was the worst of all things. If this was how Menisi lived, Shardele would have rather been mindless.
She wobbled as she left her apartment, and her servants rushed up to her.
“Your Highness, you’re in no fit state to—”
One of her nursemaid servants wanted to keep her out of the public eye. Or her mother’s. Shardele turned a pale, but unsettlingly focused, expression on the woman. Her [Caretaker] halted, and Shardele had no radiant, dreamy gaze of bliss. Only waxy features, red lips pressed together.
“Where are my parents?”
—She found them in her mother’s private rooms and threw open the doors despite the protests of the royal staff. Shardele halted as she saw three people sitting around a coffee table, playing from plush couch seats.
At first, they didn’t notice her so intent were they on the game of cards. Ielane was smiling at Thimiran as the [Duke] sipped from a glass of water, and Reclis was cutting the deck for Shardele’s husband.
“—And you were thinking we’d resolve the Ailendamus, mm, situation how, Thimiran? No wrong answers. I quite liked your opinions on Calanferian industry vis-à-vis these new pushes into the New Lands and this Earther situation. We have to acquire some—”
Ielane’s eyes flicked up, but her husband and Thimiran were too engaged in debate. She blinked at Shardele as the 1st Princess swayed in place.
The realization given to her by Tessa breaking the sky hit her in fullness as her husband laughed like a young [Lady] being flattered by a Level 30 [Handsome Suitor].
“My thoughts? Well, Your Majesty, if I recall your order of, um, operations correctly, I’d like to first take stock of my allies’ opinions. Not merely the Dawn Concordat, but neighbors and our true allies.”
“Ah, wonderful. Well, they would be—oh. Shardele.”
Reclis finally noticed his daughter standing there as the servants fled, and he froze slightly. Thimiran twisted around, and both men wore a slightly guilty expression. Shardele whispered.
“You’re teaching him? You told me I would rule, not—not—you’re playing cards with him, Mother? How long have you been doing that? Years?”
Ielane du Marquin reached for a cup of water and sipped at it.
“Shardele, this is a surprise. What drove you to this sudden realization? You were on Dreamleaf…could it be that? Drug classes always surprise me. This isn’t a strong argument for your continuing hobby, however. You’re not taking it well. Composure.”
Shardele’s voice rose as Thimiran stood.
“Ah, my lovely wife, I had the hospitality of Their Majesties and—”
“You’re teaching him. Cards were our thing! You—you—you never trusted me at all.”
Her eyes were filling up with tears, and Ielane sighed.
“Shardele, one hedges one’s bets in all matters. Did you learn nothing from our games? Thimiran, we may have to call it this evening. I foresee some strife. Shardele, your manners—”
Too late. The 1st Princess’s eyes were pouring over, and she screamed for the first time in a decade, and for the first time in her life at her mother. A wild, confused aura that burst around Ielane’s focused aura like a cloud of dying dreams and joys cut by a razor.
 
——
 
And it continued. Dreamers and smokers and people around the world shouting and trying to escape an adventure gone horribly, horribly wrong. Feeling cold reality dragging them back into nightmares they couldn’t escape from, trapping them within their own flesh.
All of them, from the greatest to the smallest, no longer protected by that shared realm, a creation, a Skill, a gift or a curse, who could say—made long, long ago by the greatest of their kind.
Truth dripping into their ears and driving their minds to madness.
A bee, buzzing upside down as she flew, panicking, Unable to hear the shouts of alarm from the people below her until a magic hand captured her and a [Princess] was hugging her.
“Apista? Apista, what’s wrong? She’s freaking out. Someone…”
The rot is deep and dark, and my kin are dying to slay the horrid things. I am alone, a stolen child given the blood of royalty by another child far from her throne, another pretender to true thrones.
We are all imitators of the crown. I have stung the eye of the Witch of Webs, but I shall never protect anyone, even if my form changes again.
Not from war.
Not from the crushing weight of imperium.
Not from grief.
I am a bee. I may be free, but only accidentally. There is no one like me.
She shivered, though her body could burn with flames, until Lyonette and Mrsha hugged her, and she warmed and crawled up to rest on their shoulders. Apista decided to lay off the Dreamleaf cigars for a while.
They cursed her, each and every one of them. The one who had caused it all, trapped deepest.
Tessa.
 
——
 
She saw it all. Shardele realizing how replaceable she was, Telim’s conclusions about what he had signed up for, Palt’s guilts and insecurities, and so many more.
They were below her as she sank, and it was no mind-bending trip she was on. That would have been pleasant, familiar.
This? This was the taste of vomit and regret in the moments when you woke after it ended. This was reality staring at you like your missing tooth in a mirror, the pockmarks in your flesh you’d dug out, the sight of your emaciated body, and the inability to lie.
You’re not going to get better. You’ll keep doing this until you die. You’re never going to quit, and there’s no way out of this. You can’t fight your way out of it by killing ‘the sky’.
There was no avatar of Tessa’s subconscious. Just her. She wandered down out of her beautiful dream and into a memory.
Ah. Right there. Here it was. She stopped and found a sixteen year-old girl covered in blood. Some of hers, but she was mostly shaken up. Miner Ghouls after a bad cave-in that had unearthed death magicore. No one had expected it.
One Bronze-ranker dead, five more in intensive care with a [Healer] despite potions, and the Silver-rankers were chewed up too. Captain Groms was in a fury, and she was so badly shaken a Silver-ranker handed her a pill.
“Here, settle your nerves, rookie. Let’s get a drink.”
She hesitates, that younger Tessa, because she knows it isn’t a potion like normal. But she’s so rattled, and she thinks what harm could it do? She wants to impress the Silver-rankers.
So she takes the pill, and it’s right there.
Right there.
Tessa touches her own face. And she thinks—if only I hadn’t taken the pill, maybe.
Maybe she’d be happier. Maybe she’d have a life instead of wasting away. She watched, instead, as the younger Tessa began hiccuping, and they laughed at her, mocking her for the thing she didn’t really want to take. Then one of them is going to buy her a drink, and she’ll be so addled by both…
They knew what they were doing.
Tessa blinked, and the memory was gone. Replaced by other moments that defined her life. Other people’s beds, often facilitated by drugs and pressure.
Captain Groms. First of many such bosses and employers. Setting the standard she thought was normal.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, brat.”
It was easier if he liked her. Only, he never really liked her, simply found her useful and then…she saw another Tessa rolling out of his grimy bed, staggering towards a sink and drinking. Drinking to drown horror.
But it never did.
Blink.
Assassin’s Guild. She wasn’t a traditional member, but when you were desperate and had a bad reputation as an adventurer, they’d let you in. If you proved you could follow orders.
Initiation rituals. Hazing. Until they recoiled away from her, realizing that she was outlevelling them. Then instead of predators eying a morsel, they became leeches sucking out wealth and bits of power, and she…
Blink.
Tessa walked down a lifetime’s road, and each and every memory was bitter. Even Ilvriss.
Especially Ilvriss. Because when she came to people who had been kind without artifice, and saw it in hindsight, she beheld how she wasted it.
Each.
And every.
Time.
The last one she came to was the [Princess], the inn, and the miracle.
A Faerie’s Flower. Tessa held it in her clawed hands.
“This was everything. And it still wasn’t enough. It made me normal. But it didn’t fix me wanting this.”
Lying in a puddle of urine and vomit as the servants cleaned around her, too afraid to even touch her in her rooms, a pile of burnt drugs and empty capsules surrounding her.
The present. She stepped back into the past. Saw the Winter Solstice. Iert pointing a paw at her without even bothering to take her seriously. Knowing he could disable her in a moment.
“[Restore Addictions]. It’s not my fault. I tried. I swear, I was trying. I was going to die and do the right thing. I was.”
But instead—Tessa saw herself freeze up, then begin pulling out the Selphid’s Dust from the bag Iert had tossed to the side. Like someone threw a bone to a dog. Then herself going mad. As he took the [Innkeeper] away.
The flowers didn’t fix her.
She couldn’t fix her.
“You can’t fix me, Lyonette. Stop writing to me.”
Tessa sank to her knees, weeping, as letters fluttered around her, written with the [Princess]’ delicate scrawl. She saw Vaulont the Ash swearing and leaping away as she slashed at him, screaming for him to leave her alone.
She saw the future, a [Princess] holding a bee in her arms as she rode towards Tenbault. She saw Hekusha’s expression of vague contempt hidden by a smile.
She saw her body falling to pieces.
And she knew that as horrible, as painful as this moment was…
Tomorrow, she’d be back here again. So the Drake opened her eyes.
She was laughing as the servants fled. Laughing as she sat up in the dark of the night.
Despairing? Oh, yes. Hating herself? Always.
But mostly…
Just tired. She sat there for a long while, then got up. Mostly out of habit.
 
——
 
Madriga didn’t like Tenbault. She found it harder than some Gold-rank missions she’d been on, and she was counting the days until she could leave. Thirteen.
Thirteen and she’d collect her gold, thousands of pieces, and go. But dead gods, she wanted to leave and forfeit her pay.
It wasn’t simply the misery of having to tell people begging for healing they had to wait. It wasn’t just realizing the Healer of Tenbault was a piece of crap only in it for the gold.
It wasn’t only the danger of Shriekblade, even.
No…what made it hard for Madriga was seeing Crowdcaller Merdon and Shriekblade and realizing that the ideal she aspired to, Named-rank adventurer, was…well, them.
As night fell in Tenbault, Madriga walked into the city of Tenbault, leaving the secure, warded gates of the mansion to go to a moderately large theater close to it. The paint was chipping, and it wasn’t as glorious as all the gold lettering and interior carpets made it out to be.
There was a crowd, of course. There was always a crowd, so she stood near the back. Most visitors to Tenbault came once; after all, it was free, and what else could you do to pass the time?
There was only one performance. No modern plays. The performance ran nightly, and there was just one actor who stood on the center stage.
He had on a huge, pinstripe suit with a red bow tie, and his hair was combed back. He looked, in a way, more professional, more attentive than she saw him in the mornings.
Crowdcaller Merdon stood in the spotlight, and he spoke, his voice filling the theatre as bored nobles, the sick and dying, all watched him. His voice drowned out their murmurs and coughs, and it was beautiful and vast.
“I was at the bar the other day, and I heard a fellow say, ‘I could eat a horse’! The [Bartender] instantly came over to apologize. ‘I’m so sorry, sir, but we’ve only got cow.’ Ha-ha. Ha!”
He didn’t smile, but he did a pivot with his feet and then gazed left.
“I went to buy boots at a [Cobbler]’s the other day, and the man gave me a fair price. I told him his deals were like a grape. They were ‘raisin-able’.”
This time, the groan from the audience was so loud Madriga heard it. But that was the act. Merdon paused, then smiled glassily at the audience.
“Now, here’s a song from the northern highlands. ‘Oh, I was strolling down the boulevards…’”
He launched into an old folk song that Madriga actually knew, and he was a better singer than any she’d heard. His voice filled the air, and she realized, with a start, that he actually had some accompaniment. Either recorded music or a Skill—but Merdon still stood alone and sang his heart out.
When he was done, he didn’t even wait for applause. He did two more jokes, then performed an operadic. Both female and male roles.
He could sing, dead gods damnit! His falsetto was so convincing he could have made her believe he was some buxom lady instead of the Named-rank man. It was alluring and yet—
You didn’t come here twice. Merdon performed for three hours straight each night. Something about him standing there, performing to the crowds, made Madriga have to leave after only twenty minutes.
Then she returned to the mansion, and Anabeva, her [Ranger] friend, caught her.
“Hey, Madriga, where were you?”
“Watching Merdon. What’s up?”
There wasn’t much to do in Tenbault at night besides drink and waste your coin or hang out with other Gold-rankers, but they were miserable. However, tonight they had more entertainment.
“Look in the main courtyard. Shriekblade’s practicing. No one wants to get close, but look!”
—And there was Shriekblade. The Named-rank adventurer stood in the empty courtyard, and Madriga saw, from one of the balconies, a training dummy set up in the center. Eight more around her. Shriekblade stood there, stock still, then lunged.
She stabbed the first sack of rotted grain and stuffing so fast Madriga didn’t see her move. Stabbed and stabbed, but not mindlessly; she left a trail of dagger wounds up its body, then kicked the training dummy up—
“Five Families!”
Both Madriga and Anabeva saw Shriekblade hit the dummy six times in the air, leaping, striking, bounding off it, and striking again. Each time she landed, she hit another one of the eight training dummies. When her first target finally touched the ground, it was so badly cut apart it turned into a plume of dust which rose and obscured her in a cloud.
A whirling blade slashed in that cloud, leaving cuts, beheading the other dummies, attacking, a pure offensive onslaught that Madriga couldn’t imagine mimicking even with a full team. Shriekblade finally stopped in the center of the courtyard, panting, dripping with sweat as training-dummy carnage lay strewn around her.
Then she found more training dummies, began setting it up, and went for a second pass without Skills.
“They train like monsters. Merdon and Shriekblade. I thought he was all hot air and Skills, but he sings for three hours, doesn’t he? He must be able to level his class by performing. They work hard, even if they’re, you know, crazy.”
Despite her dislike of both, Anabeva was admiring. The [Ranger] leaned on her bow as Shriekblade finished her second round and went to set up a third. She was sweating hard, but Madriga disagreed with her friend.
“Ever been to the Adventurer’s Haven, Anabeva?”
“I didn’t stay long, but yeah. Who hasn’t? Why?”
The Gold-rank adventurer leaned on the balcony as she watched Shriekblade.
“There’s plenty of Named-ranks who go there. They don’t train like that. Even the younger ones like Colth the Supporter don’t. Sometimes, you see them practicing, but not for hours like this. Active Named-rankers don’t train. They’re going on adventures. This…this is what the washed up ones do to keep their edge.”
Anabeva glanced at Madriga, surprised.
“Come on, they’re working hard. You’re telling me that’s not impressive?”
“Merdon hasn’t gone on a monster hunt in years, Anabeva. Even when those Goblins sacked the city, he wasn’t leading the counterattack. I heard one of the Named-ranks at the Haven say once that an hour of combat was worth a month of dedicated training.”
“Huh. But they earned their levels.”
“Yeah.”
It was true that Merdon and Shriekblade lay in the territory of true monsters, the kind that even multiple Gold-rank teams would have trouble equalling. But when Madriga watched Merdon standing on his lonely stage without a band or other performers, or Shriekblade silently stabbing at a training dummy on the ground…
Maybe I should save up and retire. Named-rank was a dream that got you killed, and you could live for the rest of your life if you saved up rather than spent your gold on new gear. Madriga saw her future in the two adventurers, and if that was it…well, she’d hang up her blades tomorrow.
It looked like fear, Tessa’s relentless practice. Fear of losing the last bit of her edge. Then Madriga saw the Drake hurl a waterflask to the ground, begin punching at the courtyard flagstones, scream like she was wounded…and then reach for something, pull it out, and drink it. Anabeva shook her head as the thrashing Drake lay still.
“We’re going to be so much better than that.”
Gone again. Shriekblade got up after a moment and then began wandering about, giggling to herself. Madriga nodded.
“I wonder how much you have to mess up to sink that low.”
She couldn’t imagine it.
 
——
 
Crowdcaller Merdon was tired from his late-night practice, but he had to wake up at 4 AM. For Tessa.
It wasn’t as bad as last evening. Apparently, she’d calmed down suspiciously fast despite all the stuff she’d taken, then been practicing. But at some point, she’d fallen off the wagon and…
A terrified young [Manservant], the same boy that Hekusha liked, was white-faced and shaking. He sat in one of their staff rooms, and Tessa was watching him.
Peeking around the corner of a doorway, eyes wide, hunched. Merdon sprayed some tonic into his throat.
“Shriekblade.”
“Shh.”
The terrified servants ran as she glanced at him, and he tried to figure out which drug it was this time.
She’s lucid and talking, so not a normal one. Dreamleaf? No. Hazyflower? Maybe. She might be dangerous; her eyes were dilated, and she seemed unpredictable.
“What are you doing?”
“Watching him. That guy.”
She indicated the terrified young man, and Merdon waited.
“Why?”
“Because he’s the main character.”
“…The what?”
“Of the story.”
“What story? It’s too early for this, Tessa.”
She gave him an earnest, desperate gaze.
“No, listen to me, Merdon. We’re in a book. We’re all in a book, and he’s the important person. If we don’t do something with him, we’re going to be written out. You say something to him. I’m scared I’ll become the sacrificial character in a big fight scene.”
Her tail was lashing across the ground with her nerves, and Merdon glanced into the staff room where everyone was begging him with their eyes to do something. He didn’t do anything.
His armor was heavy today. He sank down with the wall at his back, sitting next to her. She peered at him.
“What’re you doing, Merdon?”
He was too tired to care if she started stabbing him. Merdon’s head bowed, and he took his helmet off. He gazed into the polished metal and spoke.
“Hey…Tessa. Do you ever get tired of all of this? How long are you going to keep doing the same thing?”
The Drake paused, and he saw her shift in the faint, blurry image of the helmet. When she responded, it wasn’t with that breathless credulity, but a reluctant tone.
“I’m—not doing anything. Listen, he’s…”
“Hekusha’s going to keep sending you on assignments. If you’re not dead within the month from that, it’ll be your habit. You could make enough to buy her healing doing missions by yourself. Why are you hanging around here?”
She was rapidly, unwillingly, sobering. Or perhaps his words were altering whatever state she was in. Tessa stopped peering around the doorway. Then she slid down the wall and sat with him.
“Why are you?”
He glared at his helmet.
“I’m earning gold, and I don’t fancy risking my neck. Orchestra will never have me back. I don’t combo well with other classes. I’m…fine. I’m fine. I’m choosing to do this. Are you?”
He glanced at her, and she avoided gazing at him. She traced onto the marble flooring, cracking the stone with her claws.
“I’m choosing too. It’s just hard to choose anything other than—Hekusha’s merely making me work for all the trouble I put her through. She cares about me. About us.”
“…”
“Merdon? She does.”
“…”
The Drake reached out with a claw and saw his head was bowed, his messy, uncombed hair springing up in curls around his head. A huge jaw and an older man, not the young, sturdy-jawed [Singer] he had once been.
The Vetrl-pill she’d took made reality distort around Tessa, and she smiled. For a moment, she saw him and glanced around the mansion.
“Three healings a day. Remember that, Merdon?”
“I remember.”
Tessa exhaled, and the contagious dust drifted over Merdon. [Shared Trip]. He coughed and waved it away, but it was too late. For a second, her voice transported him back in time.
“Three healings a day. ‘And if you need help, there is Master Glivs, who is a [Healer] and can see to any urgent ailments. I am so very sorry if I cannot heal you! Please, the most urgently in need…’ And remember the house?”
It was simply a house, a bit run-down, in a village, and it was barely large enough for three rooms. Bedroom, kitchen/dining room with a table for three at most, and the entrance living room which doubled as the place where she healed people.
Old and humble. Merdon whispered.
“Do you remember the roof?”
They both saw it. Tiles, not thatch. Not even good tiles; just cheap ceramics you could lay down and secure with a nail—if the nail didn’t break the tile. They needed replacing constantly, could leak, and every storm damaged them.
But the roof was the best roof there ever was. Merdon stood in front of the little cottage with the line of people, a hundred all waiting for the Healer’s help, and he could see the places he’d patched.
It was always perfectly tiled. Not a drop of water got in, even in the worst storms. Other roofs, they’d take a beating, and then the next time it rained there was a leak. Not hers. The day after a storm, there’d be someone up there hammering new tiles into place, even if it was drizzling.
The same with the woodwork and front of the house. The little garden had not a weed. He swept the tiles and saw, in the glassless shutters, a snoozing young woman.
Lying in her chair as the crowd stood respectfully silent. Sleeping—because she was so drained of mana she needed to recharge. In a bit, she’d get some Sage’s Grass tea and sip it, then cast her second [Restoration] of the day.
It’d be dark when she’d be able to cast her final [Restoration], and then she might need to be carried to her bed. Merdon rested his broom against the wall and placed his hand against the old wood. He saw something had been nailed into the wood.
A ribbon. There were ribbons hung to the wood that often needed to be taken down as they began to mildew, but more would pop up. At least three a day. Letters, which Hekusha had placed on the walls, then put in a Chest of Holding because she had no space for them. Thank yous.
Not much gold, except from rich clients. She kept talking about hiring another [Healer], if she had the coin—her private bedroom was filled with scrawls, trying to write the magic she had been taught out and make it easier.
Tessa sat next to the door like a guard-dog, staring at the people as if daring them to rush the cottage. She was chewing on some sausage. The Healer of Tenbault never went hungry, and the basket of provisions was always more than she could eat, so she shared it out. In the distance, Tessa saw the camps and smelled cook fires from the people coming for Hekusha. The villagers grumbled, but they let the people stay, and there was talk of raising a second inn to accommodate more people.
The Drake lay her head back against the wall of the cottage and breathed in and out as she listened to the Healer snoring. She saw the young man who came here when he wasn’t adventuring with his team staring through the window.
Merdon the Shouter glanced at Tessa, and she smiled at him toothily. And he said:
“Wake up, Tessa.”
Her smile faltered. She reached out, and his voice was low and precise, and it made her veins thrum.
“You have to wake up. I don’t care about whether you live or die. I do not. I’m tired of dealing with your shit. Tenbault doesn’t need two Named-rank adventurers. This is my retirement, not yours. Get lost, would you?”
“Merdon. I—”
She blinked, and the cottage dissolved. His face was replaced by the older man’s. He lowered the Potion of Clarity and splashed her in the face with the rest of it. She recoiled, but he just bounced the bottle off her chest and pushed himself up. His face was shadowed as he put his helmet back on his head.
“That house and the village is gone. You don’t owe her anything. Neither do I. Some [Princess] is coming for you, and I’m not risking my neck.”
“Lyonette? But I told her not to care about me. I’m hopeless.”
Tessa whispered, and Merdon strode past her.
“You don’t need to tell me that. But they keep coming back regardless of how low you sink. I wonder what you did to earn all that?”
She gazed at his back and rubbed at her eyes.
“I don’t know.”
 
——
 
Hekusha was in a bad mood this morning. She was snapping at the servants.
“There’s a leak in the corner of the room, right there! Get the [Builders] to patch it, and have it re-enchanted by a good [Enchanter] properly. Merdon? Where are you?”
He stomped into the room, red-eyed and glowering. She was going over her ledgers from last night and about to compliment him for dealing with the fraud incident. And to tell him to send Tessa in for more work.
But the Named-rank adventurer was distracted. He held up a hand as she began to speak, and affronted, she glowered.
“Merdon! I was—”
“Something’s coming. Get to your safe room. Something’s…”
His voice sparked alarm into her chest. She put down her papers, dropping them and fumbling for the pages, which cascaded down to the ground.
“What? Monsters?”
“—I don’t know. Madriga, someone report! Is anyone on the walls?”
He seized a speaking stone, and there was an alarmed voice.
“Boss? My [Dangersense] pinged. Lightly, but—the Watch is calling in. There’s a caravan coming down the road. It looked like more patients at first, but there’s Antinium and fucking Goblins among them. And Drakes and—”
Antinium? Goblins? Hekusha’s eyes grew round with alarm, and Merdon cursed.
“Get everyone on the walls! I want eyes up for Wyverns! Hekusha, panic room!”
He was pounding out of the doors to her rooms when she shrieked.
“Merdon! Wait! What about my bodyguard? Send Tessa or—”
“They’re here for Tessa!”
He roared at her, and then she realized who it was.
The [Princess] had come.
 
——
 
They came riding down the road like a storybook. Like one of Tessa’s trips so surreal were they to Tenbault.
Madriga’s eyes were boggling as she peered over the low battlements at…
“It is Goblins. They’re simply riding along and—waving at us.”
Goblins on wagons, riding next to Antinium. One of the Ants was even on horseback, and the Watch wasn’t sure if they should be alarmed or what.
“They must be those Liscorians. Are they coming for the Healer’s favor?”
“I don’t—I don’t know. Merdon said to get to the walls and get ready for trouble. Are the gates sealed?”
“Uh, three out of the six are. Two’re jammed, and there’s crowds—”
“Seal all of them!”
Tenbault was not a defensible city. Nor did they have an army. Madriga reassured herself that it wouldn’t be a battle. No one attacked Tenbault. Even the Bloodfeast Raiders did not because everyone needed the Healer. The only time a force had ever sacked the city was when that Goblin tribe had…
Her eyes fell to the Goblins again, and she checked the shortsword on her waist. Anabeva had her longbow raised.
“Should I shoot one of the Goblins or something?”
“They’re riding with the group, Anabeva.”
“Yeah, but they’re Goblins.”
“I heard in Liscor you’re not supposed to kill them.”
The [Ranger] shot her friend an incredulous look. She squinted down the shaft of her arrow.
“Let me take a [Distant Scan]. Hmmm. Whoa. Whoa!”
She jerked, and Madriga tensed.
“What?”
“Some of the people are seriously high-level! And you know how nobles glow with my scan?”
“Yeah?”
“Well, I count three glows, and one’s all silvery! That woman sitting there with the white Gnoll kid?”
She pointed at a tiny figure. Madriga shrugged.
“How high are their levels?”
“H-high. There’s some huge muscle Drake, a fat Drake, a female Drake, the Drake [Lord], the other [Lady], uh, uh—the Gnoll in a suit, and I swear there were more, but even the lower-level ones are strong. Like, there’s a Hob that might be Level 30?”
“A Level 30 Hob?”
Madriga was horrified, but then Anabeva whispered.
“Yeah, but all the ones I named are higher level than she is.”
The two Gold-rankers stood there, and Madriga’s stomach began to hurt.
“You must be mistaken. There can’t be that many high-level people in one spot. Unless they’re bodyguards for one of the Five Families?”
It didn’t explain the Antinium or Goblins. Anabeva raised her longbow again, thoroughly freaked out.
“Those Goblins are dangerous. Hey, hey, everyone, get on the walls now! Where’s Merdon and Shriekblade? I’m going to fire a warning shot.”
“What?”
“Just so they stay back!”
“No, don’t do that. Anabeva, this is a bad idea—”
Anabeva was drawing back on the longbow, not aiming at any one person, but for the road. A clear warning shot for the danger only she could fully see. If you were watching her, and you had any understanding of archery, you could see she wasn’t going to hit anyone.
But then again, if you were watching her from, say, the window of a carriage that was half-rolled down, then you might have also been ordered to ensure absolutely zero threats came at you from Tenbault.
Also to make an impression. So, as Anabeva drew back on the longbow and hesitated, Madriga saw a flicker from the corner of her eyes.
“Watch out—”
The arrow hit the longbow as both Gold-rankers dodged backwards. It blew the bow out of Anabeva’s hands, and the [Ranger] cried out as it went tumbling off the battlements.
“How the—”
Madriga had already taken cover, and she felt her skin crawling.
I didn’t even see it coming this way. It curved—
Someone had seen Anabeva move, drawn an arrow, and loosed with pinpoint accuracy. Suddenly, the Gold-ranker was sweating. That wasn’t an [Archer] on Anabeva’s level. Then there was a crack and a scream.
“We’re under attack! Run!”
The Watch stampeded off the walls, yelling, and Madriga almost shouted at them to keep their heads down when she saw what had hit them.
An arrow arced up had fallen and hit the battlements. It had lodged in the crenellations that shielded you from archer fire, which suggested it had not only been fired with tremendous force, but that the archer had deliberately planted it there.
Especially because attached to the arrow’s shaft was a little piece of string and paper. Madriga stared at it, then reached up with trembling fingers and yanked the paper down. She read it out loud.
 
Kindly do not take aim at convoy. You are in my line of sight. 
—Elia Arcsinger.
 
“A-Arcsinger? But she’s washed up! She lost to a Gold-ranker.”
Anabeva’s eyes were wide, and Madriga almost chanced a glance over the battlements before hissing.
“Go get your bow! If she’s so washed up, how did she hit you?”
Anabeva was crawling towards the stairs.
“It’s okay, we’ve got Merdon and Shriekblade. We’ll—”
The third arrow blew a chunk out of the battlements, and both Gold-rankers screamed. The arrow went clattering down in a shower of unenchanted masonry, and Madriga saw a third arrow, this one of a different make, and another message attached to it.
 
Hello, I am also here. I am Bird. We have come to put a boot up the Healer’s posterior. Do not resist.
—Bird
 
She stared at it. Bird the H—
The fourth arrow clattered down next to her, and she decided she needed to be under more cover. The note this time read:
 
Sorry, I did not mean to destroy the battlements. My new bow is very pow-y. Be warned or something.
—Bird
 
Madriga read it, then she began to shout for Merdon to get here now.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was having a fine time. Okay, every time the wagon hit a bump she winced as her cracked skin pulsed with pain.
But she was in good company, and it was a fine day after a night camping out. There was Wall Lord Ilvriss riding on one side, Nerul playing cards with Nanette in the wagon, Mrsha in her lap, and Tenbault was on the horizon.
She wasn’t even mad about the shenanigans. She encouraged it. Chaos? Yes, please, with a side-serving of consequences. Pass the drama.
Tessa.
She was also aware of the danger, of course, and Ilvriss was leaning over his saddlehorn.
“Crowdcaller Merdon specializes in blasting large numbers of people. I respectfully suggest we spread out. I saw him fighting at the Bloodfields once.”
“I second that motion. Pryde, if we were to step that way?”
Grimalkin began to jog towards one of the other many gates the city had, but Pryde and Lyonette demurred instantly.
“No. We stick together. Shield spells I will take, but we can combine our defences. And it is the look of the thing, Grimalkin. We are not going to fight. If we have to fight, we will win, but we will not be seen to prepare for it.”
Lady Pryde nodded vigorously and shot Lyonette a thumbs up.
“Dignity. I keep telling you that, Grimalkin.”
The Sinew Magus and Ilvriss exchanged a look. Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“This would be dignity over practicality? A, ah, very noble concept.”
Pryde and Lyonette smirked at him. Ilvriss rubbed at his forehead.
“There’s some tactical element to it, I suppose. Magus, can you block a sonic attack at range?”
“I could try a [Hush] spell, and I was researching a way to turn it to [Mass Hush], but that might not work against a projected attack…Merdon is a fascinating issue since he’s creating sound waves, and we’re not close. Let me confer with Valeterisa.”
Grimalkin strode off, and Pryde followed, but Lyonette had to ask.
“He did a lot of damage at the Bloodfields, Ilvriss?”
The Wall Lord nodded tightly.
“Burst eardrums, chaos in the ranks—he could shout arrows and spells apart. Truly dangerous. We bled hard that year.”
“Why didn’t they use him every year, then?”
He smiled thinly.
“I suppose either the Walled Cities made him an offer to refuse or he was told—or just realized—that he’d be the first candidate for assassination if he became that much of an issue. Besides, if they kept bringing him, we’d have to call for Saliss or someone to counter him.”
“Oh, quite. Well, thank you for taking the time, Ilvriss. I know your digging is pressing, but this is so important—”
He smiled at her as he nodded to Peggy, Yelroan, and Rozencrantz, who were passing out snacks.
“I wouldn’t miss a real Solstice moment for the world. And as you said…I feel responsible for this too. I will say, though, that we must not discount Merdon. He might have been beaten once, but his guard was down. He is still a Named-rank.”
“We have one ourselves.”
Lyonette nodded to Elia, who was arguing with Bird about shooting at Tenbault. Ilvriss sighed.
“They have two. We don’t know how Tessa will act. If one side is fighting to kill and the other is not…let’s have the children hang back with Sergeant Relc.”
The [Spearmaster of Silence] was, in fact, the ideal candidate to both take care of the children and potentially ward off Merdon, though he seemed rather alarmed at the idea.
“I don’t even know how to cut, uh, sound, guys. Listen, if it gets bad, everyone just take cover behind a wagon or Montressa, alright?”
“It’s not going to get bad. What are they going to do? Fight? We have an Archmage, Grimalkin, Elia, Bird, and you on our side!”
Montressa assured Relc as Valeterisa woke up from her nap. Relc scratched at his neck spines.
“I dunno. That sounds really reasonable, Montressa.”
“Exactly, so—”
“Reasonable people don’t really exist in my line of work. You’d be surprised how many idiots take a swing at me even though they know I’m a [Spearmaster] and Relc and a Senior Guardsman. We gotta be careful.”
This sensible line from the Drake made Montressa blink, then start doubling her barrier spells. Mrsha held up a notecard.
Relc, when did you become so responsible and wise? You’re losing touch with your roots!
Relc twisted around and gave her a mock-grimace.
“I know, right? It sucks. I think Watch Captain Zevara gave me something. It’s the food you get when you’re promoted. By the way, how are we doing this? I didn’t actually get the full plan. Or I was eating.”
Nanette puffed up in outrage.
“You missed my lecture? First we get a boot and then—”
She began to joke around, then saw Relc had his spear in his hands and grew a bit more serious.
“U-um, well, we talk first. Lyonette wants to talk to the Healer of Tenbault and give her a piece of her mind. And Chieftain Rags is waiting in the wings. We do a show of force, and Archmage Valeterisa is the final blow.”
“Sounds like the Goblins are when it gets hairy. Or maybe just when the Healer appears. Got it. So we’ve got ward spells from our [Mages], and I think Ilvriss and Lyonette have some defensive Skills…”
Relc was calculating the inn’s defences, which weren’t as all-encompassing as he’d like. Not as many pure combat-classes. However, they had tricks.
Such as Yelroan, who was bickering with Ishkr.
“Listen, I’ll flash them with my sunglasses. Works on everything. I reckon I could get the entire city. Don’t take risks.”
“I’m not. I’m just…going to get a bit closer.”
The [Head Server] innocently skated ahead on his [Waxed Floors] Skill, and Yelroan sighed, but Nerul clapped him on the shoulders.
“Ah, let him take a risk. He’s young and new to his levels. Now, [Mathematician], I’m also warded as a [Diplomat], but I think we’re probably in breach of pure hospitality-laws. Still, if it gets bad, can you use your Skill-blocking ability and give me a shot at the Watch Captain? I’m looking for the fellow, but I think I can lock down the Watch if I can draw him into a [Sudden Negotiation].”
Yelroan peered at the city and smiled.
“I can. That’s him there. See the one peeking up?”
“My word, how’d you find him?”
“I have an image. The Mage’s Guild sent me his particulars last week in a routine inquiry. I did phrase it as if I was one of the Five Families, but their protocols are shockingly bad. Then again, I could do this to a Walled City.”
Nerul’s chuckle filled the air.
“Mathematician, Mathematician, you must stop. There’s only so delightfully titillated I can be before I try to recruit you for Salazsar again. Oh, such lovely files. And the man’s in debt? My, my…”
It was going to be bad—for Tenbault—if it came to a fight. But again, that first blow…if a Named-ranker was on the other side, there was no such thing as overkill.
Which was why you needed a ringer, obviously. Elia Arcsinger and Bird? Fine deterrants. A pet Wall Lord, Sinew Magus Grimalkin, Archmage Valeterisa? Decent, decent.
However, true security came from an actually competent, intelligent, gifted genius of war and perspicacity. If he could deal with this nagging issue first—which was why Dame Ushar handed Lyonette a scrying orb and a certain Duke appeared.
“Rhisveri?”
“That’s Duke Rhisveri to you, er, Your Highness! Give me fifteen—no, thirty minutes and I’ll be right over. I just have, uh, some complications this morning.”
His voice sounded unusually strained, and Lyonette frowned at the faint image of the rather-harassed looking Duke.
“Are you sick?”
He was all bundled up in a blanket like a sausage, rather reminiscent of his true form, and he snapped at her. His cheeks were crimson, and he appeared sick—but he sounded lively enough.
“No! Just some annoying—delay for thirty minutes, alright?”
“We’re fine, Duke. We have Valeterisa.”
“You need a real combat spellcaster, not some Wistram hack! She probably doesn’t even know how to counter sound attacks. I’ll be on my way! I need some time, and then I’ll do a [Gateway] and—”
Ilvriss was giving the scrying orb an affronted look.
“Is that the rude Human who kidnapped you last time?”
“It’s Rhisveri. We’re fine, Rhisveri. If there is trouble, come quickly as you can, but your involvement would be suspicious and political.”
“I heard that voice! And why are the children there? You have them behind barrier spells, don’t you? Who takes children into danger?”
“We have plenty of security on the road, and this is important, Rhisveri. They should see important things being done, and they wanted to be here—”
“I can see why your entire royal family is given tiaras. Utterly irresponsible, the lot of you. Twenty minutes! Don’t you dare hang up on me! Don’t you d—”
She handed the orb back to Ushar, whose brows were raised.
“The good Duke seems distressed for some reason.”
“He does. Oh, well. We can eminently do without. Everyone ready? Chieftain Rags?”
“Yep.”
The sounds of chewing from a speaking stone. Lyonette paused.
“Are you having breakfast?”
A swallowing sound.
“Nope. Get on with it, would you?”
Everyone was a critic. Lyonette sighed, but she saw people on the battlements, and she thought she detected Merdon’s aura at range. He wasn’t an aura-user, but he felt…er, loud. Where was Tessa? The [Princess] was rising slightly as the wagons slowed when the Healer of Tenbault appeared on the walls and began to shout.
“You! How dare you come here! Begone at once! I shall—”
Her voice was drowned out as Merdon spoke.
“Visitors to Tenbault. You are unwelcome here. Turn around and begone, or in defense of the Healer, I will raise my voice.”
Everyone went silent. Lyonette du Marquin’s chin rose, and she saw Ilvriss tense. But she held up a hand and stood on the wagon as Ushar activated a scroll.
“[Loudness] spell on, Your Highness. Do remember coughing and other sounds are picked up…”
Xinthe stood behind Lyonette, and the [Princess] spoke as some mage-conjured wind blew her hair back at the right moment. Makeup on, a blue-over-white dress like the clouds shifting around her, and a smile that said she was politely going to offer you tea before she kneecapped you under the table. She spoke.
“Tessa? Are you there? I’m sorry it took so long. I’ve come to bring you home.”
She ignored the outraged Merdon, the Healer. Hiding behind the battlements, shivering like a storm, Tessa flinched, then looked up.
“Lyonette?”
 
——
 
Crowdcaller Merdon’s heart was beating too fast, but he had the Gold-rankers spaced out around the walls, the Watch, the walls themselves, and Tessa with him.
His only problem was that he still felt outmatched—and that the Healer was on the walls too, despite his direct orders.
“Hekusha, get back, you’re in danger.”
He hissed at her, and she snapped back. Unfortunately, she’d cast [Loudness] too, so her voice echoed across the entire city.
“I will not hide from an uppity [Princess], Merdon! She cannot have Tessa! Do something about her!”
The Named-ranker winced, and she reddened, then snapped down at Lyonette.
“You are not welcome in my city! Begone!”
The [Princess] didn’t reply at once. She stood there, and Merdon glanced at the scrying orb, but to his relief, it was just showing that damn [Baker] or something. This was not a hugely televised moment. He didn’t need to become another Elia.
He was tensed up, his throat felt too tight, and sweat was collecting down the middle of his back. He recognized some of the people arrayed on the road, but he couldn’t back down.
—The [Princess] who seemed to be calling the shots didn’t even look at the Healer of Tenbault. She stood there, picture-perfect, and Merdon was wrong.
Someone was watching her.
 
——
 
The Duke of Ailendamus was watching as he had another puppet-Rhisveri doing an interview on television. He was—incapacitated, though, from doing anything more than talking. Distracted.
It was Ryoka’s fault, damn her. It always went back to—
His eyes were locked on the [Princess], who seemed weaker than when he had last seen her. Weaker and incomparably more…vast.
Levelling. Envy, jealousy, the eyes of a Wyrm on a Human appreciating in value. He watched.
Just like her mother.
 
——
 
Ielane du Marquin swore she still smelled like Dreamleaf. Who knew aura clashes could have such an olfactory component? She was displeased.
But as she watched her daughter on the scrying orb, she motioned, and Vensha stepped over.
“Inform Lady Rouslin if she is not already watching. Loudly and at speed. And get me a list of spells observing Lyonette.”
It wasn’t being televised, which meant anyone who was watching was both aware of her daughter’s movements—despite the inn’s hiding Skill—and intelligent. Vensha hesitated.
“The latter will be tricky. Scrying is getting more—”
“Make the attempt and go.”
“Loudly?”
Again, Vensha seemed uncertain, but Ielane’s plucked brows made her instantly signal for a Thronebearer, who procured three more servants who’d be running their mouths the moment they were out of earshot. The Queen of Calanfer spoke out of the corner of her mouth as she chain-smoked two cigarettes, then coughed.
“If she fails, she fails and it’s endearing or some such. She cannot hide, and the purpose of this exercise is only rewarded if we play it straight, not dance on the margins. We gamble, Vensha. At least she put on a halfway decent dress.”
Vensha, all severity and calm poise, who would have made a good [Queen] if only Ielane hadn’t wasted her sons and the woman were younger, watched as Lyonette began to speak.
“Is that motherly pride, Ielane?”
“Hah.”
After a moment, Ielane twisted around in her seat, brows knitting.
“Vensha, was that a jok—”
 
——
 
“Tessa. It’s me. I’ve come with everyone I could find. I truly did leave you for too long. I am so, so sorry. Can you show me you’re alright?”
The [Princess] spoke before Tenbault as people peered through the portcullises at her or looked up and heard an unfamiliar voice. Scrying spells captured her as she stood there. And her eyes roamed the battlements, never finding the Drake hiding next to Merdon and Hekusha.
“You—”
The Healer tried to speak, but then Lyonette looked at her, and Hekusha found her throat closing up. She wanted to claim Lyonette had threatened her, or assert her authority, but she couldn’t speak. She glanced at Merdon, and he called down to her.
“The Named-rank adventurer, Shriekblade, is in the Healer’s employ. She has not chosen to leave, and she is under contract. Continue to harass the Healer and I will treat you as an enemy of Tenbault. I am Crowdcaller Merdon, and I fear no armies, Goblins, or Antinium.”
Several of said Goblins and Antinium laughed at that, but Lyonette just stood there. Waiting. Then she spoke, and it seemed to the Calanferians who saw her that it was a stranger they beheld.
Where was the 6th Princess sneering down at them from carriage-back? It—it hurt to see. More than one rubbed at their eyes or glanced away.
She’s changed. She’s changed so much in such a short time. The old [Princess] is gone. And they had missed it. The pain became a gnawing hole in their chests. A desire to know all that had gone on, and when she spoke, it intensified.
“I’ve made your bed, Tessa. I don’t want to pressure you. Just take you away from this dreadful place. The Healer…isn’t healing you. We let you down. Erin, myself. We should have done more. You did so much. Please. Even if you’re angry, please say it to me, Tessa. I’m so sorry for leaving you alone.”
“Shut up. Liar. You didn’t do anything. Go away. Goawaygoawaygoaway.”
Tessa whispered. Merdon’s eyes flicked down to her. He drew in a breath.
“This is your last warning!”
At this, another figure galloped forwards on horseback and shouted, if less empowered by magic, than with considerable lung strength.
“In the name of Salazsar, halt! Tessa is an adventurer of the City of Gems, and we are here in concern for her wellbeing! I am Wall Lord Ilvriss! On behalf of Calanfer, Liscor, and Salazsar, you will stand down, Crowdcaller Merdon!”
Such a cunning Drake. Merdon hesitated as he eyed a Drake Wall Lord. Hekusha blanched.
“Salazsar? What are Drakes doing? S-summon the Five Families! They’ll chase them away! Merdon, tell them to go, and if not, we’ll have an army from House Veltras or the House of El here.”
“They won’t get here in time. Nor will they want a war.”
Merdon murmured to her more quietly, and Hekusha’s voice rose, again forgetting she had the [Loudness] spell active unless she whispered.
“I’m the Healer of Tenbault! I’m too valuable to be attacked! They’ll send that army unless they want me to hold back from healing everyone in their lands!”
Every eye shifted to her, and she glared around. This time, at least, Lyonette seemed to focus on the Healer, and she spoke.
“Healer Hekusha, release Tessa to me or let her talk to me. You are no fit guardian for her.”
“Liar! How dare you threaten me in my city! You have made threats against me, sent [Assassins] in the night to intimidate me—I found those warnings on my pillow, and I have the backing of the Five Families! House Reinhart! If you don’t leave, I will have Merdon shout your rabble to pieces!”
Lyonette glanced behind her and spoke mildly.
“My daughters are in this party. We have not come for war, Healer.”
“Well then—”
“Threaten her or my people again and I will have Elia shoot you somewhere nonlethal. The same for you, Crowdcaller Merdon. I simply want to talk to Tessa. Is there a reason you’re hiding her from us? Is talking so dreadfully frightening to a Named-rank adventurer and the Healer of Tenbault?”
This time, both Hekusha and Merdon glanced at Tessa again, but she was rocking back and forth. Hekusha whispered to Merdon.
“Don’t let her speak to Shriekblade. She’s bluffing. We have the support of the north—once she realizes she can’t intimidate us, she’ll negotiate.”
Merdon eyed Lyonette.
“She seems insistent.”
Hekusha clicked her tongue.
“Nobles are all the same. She’s trying to take my—our asset. Tessa! Unless she’s prepared to pay handsomely, she’ll go back empty-handed.”
“Pay…?”
The Healer mistook Merdon’s glance at her.
“Of course, she’s taking my bodyguard! If she’s rich enough to hire this many mercenaries, she can pay…have her back down, Merdon! She’s going to pay for this.”
He felt like she didn’t understand the gravity of their situation. Merdon turned to Tessa, wondering what her thoughts on the Healer’s position were. But the Drake didn’t even seem to have heard. She was peeking at Lyonette, ducking down whenever the [Princess]’ eyes roamed the battlements towards her. She gazed up at Merdon, eyes swimming with…tears?
“Don’t let her take me. I’ll ruin her life. I’m broken. Broken, Merdon. I belong here.”
The man glanced between Hekusha and Tessa, and then he set his jaw and his stance. He barked at Lyonette.
“I don’t back down in front of threats, whoever you are. The Healer has made her decision. Try these walls and suffer. Nothing and no one can escape my voice.”
“Even Goblins?”
That shout came from a little witch who shook her fist at him as she leaned out from behind Relc’s back. Merdon twitched. And then…either because they thought it was really thematic or because their Chieftain was getting bored with this standoff, someone screamed.
“[Aerial Detection]! It’s—oh dead gods! There!”
Anabeva pointed, and every head turned. A Gnoll with a suit standing in the crowd raised a paw.
“The Goblins are back! They’re coming on Wyverns! We’re all doomed!”
Merdon’s stomach flip-flopped as he saw distant specks appear from the nearest forest, rising and coming their way at speed.
The Goblins. The people at the gates began to stampede away as the Gold-rank adventurers panicked.
“Dead gods, there’s four Frost Wyverns, and they’re all Hobs—”
“It’s that tribe that killed Pallass’ army! Get off the walls!”
“Have the Watch shield us—they’re going to free everything and dust storm the entire—”
“HOLD.”
Merdon roared, and everyone turned to him. Hekusha was fleeing down the battlements towards her distant mansion, and Tessa’s eyes were on the Frost Wyverns. But Merdon, breathing hard, was—
Terrified. Furious. He barked at the [Princess] who watched him as if he were nothing but an irritant. At the little witch, at—everyone.
“You—you think you can scare me with the same trick? I’m Merdon. Merdon, the Conquerer of Chalence! I’ve beaten armies! I am a Named-rank adventurer, and this is my city!”
He saw the Wyverns were splitting into attack vectors, coming at him from left, right, and straight ahead as the last one circled the city to hit it from the rear. And he already saw the plumes of dust dropping from their loaded bags of holding.
The exact same tactic. His teeth bared as he raised something to his mouth. A…
Speaking stone?
Tessa, turning her head to watch the Wyverns flying, was whispering.
“That one’s good. Maybe better than me at…”
Then she saw the speaking stone. She eyed Merdon as he took a breath, then put her claws in her ears. She was the only one who knew him. Because in the next moment, Merdon used the speaking stone.
A communication tool he had virtually no use for. Just like [Loudness] spells; he could project his voice anywhere he wanted and at any volume he wanted. The only purpose they would have would be if he wanted to broadcast his voice across the city from magical speakers. And amplify his prodigious voice—
Further.
Crowdcaller Merdon, the Named-rank adventurer, the Loud Lad, Merdon the Shouter, the [Stentorian Voice of Concerto], closed his eyes…
And sang.
An old recording crystal, the highest quality you could buy made from jade, played quietly at first, accompanying the lone voice. A violin’s faded notes stirred the air with a host of instruments, a band that would never again play the same way.
Only the voice filled the air with true force, and it was wider than the plains of Izril, deeper than the darkest river, and it flowed through the bones. Echoing from every building and surface in Tenbault, into the air, as the startled [Princess] and her company heard it.
And then she saw the air trembling. It was a song never finished, made of the deep projection of true opera, the vibrato of Merdon’s vocal cords, higher than a humming bird’s song, and lower than the rumble of the earth.
 
“Audite! O mundus testis!
(Hark! Oh the world bear witness!)
Canto ad gloriosum infinitum!
(I sing to the glorious infinite!)
O Gigantes, audite me!
(Oh Giants, hear me!)”
 
His voice! On the ground, Mrsha had clapped her hands to her ears despite the [Hush] spells Grimalkin had cast. That was nothing to the rippling of the air.
Oh no! Rags is in the air!
She wrote, and it was good she wrote, because no one could hear a word. She showed it to Peggy, and the Hobgoblin was shouting, waving her arms—at the Wyverns.
The Wyverns who were faltering in the air as Merdon projected the full might of his voice upwards, and the dust, the dust meant to choke him—
It was billowing away. Merdon’s voice was pushing the very dust backwards, and one of the Wyverns was actually moving in reverse. And—
He was getting louder. The song was in Latin, one of the few languages known to the world.
 
“Carmen numquam visum ex corde meo cantatum
(Song never witnessed sung from my heart)
Numquam ad veritatem cordis mei exprimendam.
(Never to express my heart’s truth.)
Cantate, Musae! Cantate, montes!
(Sing, muses! Sing, mountains!)”
 
The Frost Wyverns were diving. Trying to ground themselves, to drop their Goblins. But this time—Merdon’s voice rose and reached a climatic pitch as he sang. A pure demonstration of vocal mastery. A sound like a flute of a Giant playing, and each note blasted a Wyvern out of the air. Exploded a [Fireball]. Obliterated one of Bird’s arrows.
 
“A-a-A–ah–a–aa-a–oh—”
 
——
 
It was as bad as Ilvriss remembered from the Bloodfields—worse. Merdon had prepared for the attack that had caught him off-guard last time, and the Wall Lord pointed up and screamed at Nerul.
“Dead gods! They’re falling out of the sky!”
Two Wyverns were falling, and a third was diving after them. It caught one of the falling Wyverns, slowing the descent, and Ilvriss saw a figure leap towards the second—Grimalkin. He pointed, and the Wyvern and Goblins slowed, but that just drew Merdon’s attention.
“Fools!”
He blew Grimalkin out of the air. The Sinew Magus hit the ground, rolling to his feet as his barrier spells flickered. Ilvriss drew his sword.
“That’s it. Split and engage—”
Then he saw Merdon’s head turn, and the [Voice] barked another laugh. Something exploded in the air in a shower of lightning—Bird lowered her bow.
“Uh oh. He sings more beautifully than me. Elia, how do you shoot through sound? Elia?”
The Named-rank adventurer was forty feet away and booking it, running as fast as she could for a few rocks. Not running away; repositioning. Because Merdon’s first song-Skill had taken the Goblins almost out—and he was activating another.
“[Song: Refrain of—]. Argh!”
He shielded his eyes as something flashed at him from the band below. What was that? A Gnoll with sunglasses? Merdon shook himself, then growled. His Skill! He hesitated, but he saw the green Antinium with wings aiming another arrow.
He whistled and she flinched and a slash cut across her body—didn’t draw blood. She recoiled back into cover and he grimaced.
Body’s strong as steel. He was outnumbered, eyes flicking for foes, and his blood was alive. Alive—he knew how dire this was, but—
“Gold-rankers covering fire, cover me, you idiots!”
His smile was all twisted up like his stomach. Fear and a kind of mad joy, a familiar companion. He couldn’t back down. If he failed to protect Tenbault twice—
Back against the wall. So he opened his mouth and roared, buffeting everyone present with sound. Merdon was laughing.
See, Deniusth, you bastard? See, Larra? Do you see me?
—Then his voice faltered as he saw something rising upwards. The [Sinew Magus] had cast a spell. They had come prepared for him.
Sandstorm. A hail of stinging particles that blinded and choked made the Gold-rankers aiming bows down cover their faces and cry out. Incompetent—
Merdon saw the Antinium [Archer] poking her head up again and felt a crawl down his back. He couldn’t use his powers in the sandstorm. It would absorb his sound even if he could shout through so much of it.
Trapped. They thought they had him trapped, and he was unless…Merdon’s eyes flicked around, searching for any other tactic.
There was none.
He had to use it. Reluctantly, Merdon activated another song-Skill. One he hadn’t used since…
“[Song: Adventure of a Lifetime]!”
He touched that faded song crystal at his belt, and the music changed. Tessa tilted her head. She’d never heard…
No. Wait, she knew this one. She breathed a single word.
“Orchestra.”
And the violin began to play. Merdon’s voice stopped projecting the pure operatic music, and he inhaled.
 
——
 
What the heck? Mrsha’s mouth was open. She uncovered her ears for a second, and Nanette was doing likewise. She saw the young witch was bouncing on her toes, and Colfa and Relc, protectively shielding them, were glancing at each other?
This is a combat song? It wasn’t quite like the Singer of Terandria—the violin was in place of a guitar, and there was a brass horn, a drum and flute, but—
It was no opera at all. It sounded like a younger man’s song.
 
“—on the road to Haven’s table! 
We’ll send monsters to flight
Conquer the deepest dungeon—
So long as we’re fighting shoulder-to-shoulder.
If we sing together—yeah—then our music will triumph!”
 
Relc’s mouth was open, and he had completely forgotten to try to cut the song apart. Merdon was so far away that Mrsha couldn’t see him well, but she felt like his face had gone several shades redder.
But it was working. The [Karaz Sandstorm] that Grimalkin had conjured was a massive version of the spell, poised to blow across all Tenbault. But when Merdon sang, the storm…
Vanished.
It split apart, sand and wind turning into wisps, and then Mrsha’s jaw fully dropped because she saw the very clouds clear. The sun shone down, and blue skies bathed them with light.
The weather. He’d changed the very weather—
And Crowdcaller Merdon wasn’t finished. He spun around on his heels, and one of Montressa’s [Lightning Bolts] and two arrows from Bird and Elia burst on glowing barriers appearing around him. He shouted and hit a [Flame Strike] that had fallen from the skies. Flames landed around him, and he panted, breaking off the song.
It wasn’t as strong as the previous one. Mrsha got the distinct impression that something was wrong. Merdon’s voice was overpowering, and he was drowning out the other instruments. It was incomplete with him performing live. But he just didn’t stop.
“Merdon! Halt or I’ll—”
Elia drew a glowing arrow, and Merdon’s head snapped to her.
“You’ll WHAT, Arcsinger?”
The half-Elf went tumbling across the ground, and Mrsha’s mouth opened as she saw Elia’s ears were bleeding—and her nose. Merdon drew breath as someone went running her way with a healing potion. Calescent was holding a cleaver, but Merdon was way too far to hit. Crowdcaller Merdon pivoted, blasted Grimalkin and Pryde, and the [Lady] had her fingers in her ears.
“You think I’m scared of your numbers? I’m Merdon!”
He launched into a third song as Lyonette and Ilvriss glanced at each other. The [Princess] was grimacing and mouthing something as she waved her arms. The Wall Lord galloped at her as Merdon unrolled a spell, and he was rising, now, on a platform of dirt. Gaining vantage and shouting.
 
“You’re singin’ like you’ve got me on the ropes 
Too bad I’m the man who’s gonna crush your hopes
I ain’t no Gold-rank chump, I’m the realest thing you’ve ever seen.
Get ready, cover your ears, ‘cause I’m gonna sing.
It don’t matter who you bring!
 
I’m Merdon the Shouter!
I’m the Voice of Izril! 
There isn’t anyone who can’t hear my song!
So square up; this won’t take long.
 
[Bellow of Force], [Roar of the North], [Pests Begone]!”
 
His voice hit Lady Pryde and Grimalkin, and this time, they vanished. Mrsha cried out in horror; there was a groove of dirt ripped up out of the ground, like one of her math problems. A perfect area of ground blown away.
One of the remaining two Wyverns exhaled down at Merdon—the frost breath hit his combined Skills, turned into a cloud that developed a hole in it, and then the Wyvern spun and went crashing down.
Then Merdon turned his face towards the [Princess]. His eyes narrowed as he saw her standing there, arms raised to shield the wagons behind her. He drew his breath as a Wall Lord lifted a sword, and the [Princess] turned to him.
Lyonette and Ilvriss locked gazes, then turned to look at Mrsha, Nanette, and the inn’s staff, shielded behind Montressa and Relc. The [Spearmaster] had cut a tiny gash in the air that felt…
Quiet? But Merdon inhaled and shouted.
“RIDICULOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO—”
He didn’t stop. His voice rose until Mrsha felt it pressing against Montressa’s barriers, trying to knock them flat, and Lyonette was being shielded by Ilvriss and the two Thronebearers. They were all warded, but Montressa was screaming.
“No! Nonono—”
Her barriers were being stripped away! Merdon kept howling at them, and Mrsha saw Relc swing, curse, and then there was blessed silence.
For them. But Relc’s spear had cut a section of relief out for Mrsha and Nanette; everyone else was stumbling as the voice threatened to send them flying. Relc was tensed, ready to leap forwards, and Mrsha was shouting silently.
Mother!
She saw Lyonette holding a hand out as the air rippled around her, sending dust and dirt flying in front of the wagon. But she wasn’t being hurled away like everything else. And the wagon was…
Intact? Yes, it was shaking, but even Ilvriss’ horse was just tossing its head, not stumbling or screaming when the full weight of Merdon’s voice was on them. Mrsha’s eyes widened.
Then she saw something…blocking the sonic waves assaulting them. The intensity of Merdon’s voice seemed to lessen, and Nanette pointed.
“What is that?”
Mrsha heard Nanette for the first time, and she swore she saw something moving in the air as Ilvriss flung out a claw, palm up. It was blowing around him and Lyonette, covering the Goblins, Antinium, as Rosencrantz tried to shield Xesci and Nerul knelt with Yelroan and Colfa behind a wagon.
It looked like…
A cloak?
It didn’t exist. Not in the real world. It was a mirage, like magic, an image. A shiny cloak made of sunlight, as if someone had woven it out of the dawn.
No, wait. It was a cloak of scales! Purple, gleaming like gems.
It was…two cloaks? Mrsha’s eyes widened, and then the combined auras materialized fully. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ and Lyonette’s hands were raised, and where they stood, the voice of Crowdcaller Merdon split around them, unable to breach the flowing barrier the two were projecting.
Aura.
Merdon’s eyes were bulging. His face was a tomato, but Ilvriss and Lyonette held their ground. Both were panting, but they glanced at each other and raised their shaking arms.
Like they were lifting something incredibly heavy in Grimalkin’s gymnasiums, they tensed, and Lyonette’s fingers dug into the air as Ilvriss gritted his teeth. Then both swung their arms away like they were shaking out that very same cloak.
And Mrsha saw the cone of sound shift—and they tossed Merdon’s voice over their shoulders.
Then it was just ringing silence. The Named-rank adventurer stumbled, nearly falling, catching himself on the battlements, and he tried to shout again—but they’d thrown his voice!
“What—that—”
He finally managed to speak, panting, and Lyonette du Marquin shook one hand and grimaced as she rubbed at a cheek; her flesh felt like it was ringing. Wall Lord Ilvriss adjusted his doublet and grimaced.
They glared at the Named-rank adventurer as he faltered. Merdon drew in a breath, and an arrow pinged off his helmet. He jerked.
Elia Arcsinger was lying on her back, but she had her bow drawn, and she had another arrow nocked as she lay there, glowering at him. Bird buzzed down next to her, aiming her gleaming, silver bow at Merdon, and Calescent covered the two of them.
A flicker to his right. A pair of very annoyed bodybuilders were brushing dirt off of themselves. Sinew Magus Grimalkin wiped some dirt off of Lady Pryde’s head-bag as she cracked her neck.
“Merdon, behind—”
He turned his head in time to see the final Frost Wyvern who’d dodged his vocal attacks wheeling in the air. It was flying away from him. Reflexively, Merdon began to shout, then saw a pair of figures floating down towards him.
A short Hobgoblin with her arms folded and another who had a pair of swords drawn. He remembered Redscar and froze. They landed on the battlements, and a terrified member of the Watch raised a sword.
Rags kicked the [Guardswoman] off the ten-foot walls and put her claws in her ears. Merdon whispered.
“Gold-ranks, screen the Goblins. Cover me. Tessa—”
The Drake was staring at Redscar, who was eying her, and then she jerked her head.
“[Assassin] on the roof behind us.”
Merdon felt a crawl on his neck as Vaulont the Ash raised his head slightly, tapping the crossbow. But even so, Crowdcaller Merdon still inhaled, filling his lungs.
“I’m not done. I’m not—”
He coughed. Hesitated as he saw Lyonette and Ilvriss facing him. Glanced around as Madriga and the other Gold-rankers drew together, sweating. Searched for the Healer of Tenbault.
“Hekusha, they’re on the walls. Are you in your safe room? Orders?”
“Y-you’re supposed to be able to beat anyone! You told me your voice was invincible against crowds, Merdon!”
She was wailing at him, and he rasped.
“I can take them. I simply need you to order us to fight. It’s fifty-fifty. The Watch, our team—do we fight or negotiate? Healer? Healer?”
“I—I—you told me you could handle it!”
He lowered the speaking stone as Madriga whispered.
“Boss, those Hobs—”
“Take them out and screen me. I’ll hit them one at a time. Tessa, get the [Assassin]. Are you with us or not? They can’t make you do anything.”
“I’m not worth this.”
She was shaking, and he snarled at her.
“Do you want them to save you or not? Stab me in the back or get up and help me! But decide, Tessa!”
She didn’t say anything as she rocked back and forth. So Merdon’s chest inflated as his head rose, and you had to admire that in a way. The [Blademaster] nodded at Merdon as he raised his swords, about to see if he could cut a voice in half.
The people of Tenbault were frozen, fingers in their ears, watching the standoff. A few were trying to hide behind the Watch and Gold-rank adventurers, in the assumption they’d keep the civilians safe.
That probably would get them killed first when the Skills began activating. Madriga was about to shout for them to get inside and bolt the doors, for all the good that’d do, when she saw a Gnoll edging past Anabeva. He seemed terrified, open-mouthed as he pointed in horror at the Goblins, and he had on a rather formal suit. Like a [Butler] might wear.
Wait a second. Her eyes flicked back to him. Madriga started.
She’d seen that suit and Gnoll before. He’d been with the [Princess]’ group—
“Merdon! Behind you! [Swift Interception]!”
Madriga flung herself forwards, and Merdon whirled as Ishkr leapt, paws raised. His sneak attack nearly carried him into Merdon as the Named-rank opened his mouth, but Madriga slammed into Ishkr as he ran into her. And the two—
Vanished.
“Madriga!”
Anabeva screamed, and Merdon recoiled in horror. There was no sight of her. Merdon raised a speaking stone to his lips.
“Madriga. Respond. Madriga?”
She was gone.
 
——
 
One second, Madriga was lunging at the Gnoll in the chilly air around Tenbault, trying to get her sword in position to block and realizing he didn’t have a weapon, the next—
She was landing on the ground, slamming into glass bottles and cups behind a bar in a warm inn, and she kicked Ishkr as he stumbled.
“Ow. Damn. I thought that’d—”
“—attacking! Anabeva, cover—where am I? What did you do?”
The Gold-ranker swung around as she grabbed Ishkr and raised her sword, putting the tip at his throat. He held his paws up with a sigh.
“I’m not good at this high-level stuff, but I was trying. Er, welcome to The Wandering Inn, Liscor.”
“Wh—Liscor? Bring me back! Bring me back right now!”
Ishkr gave Madriga a resigned smile as he sighed. He’d have to figure out what happened later.
“I can’t. I teleported to work. Damn, I should have set a teleportation spot in Tenbault! Idiot. Rookie mistake. Onieva’s going to laugh her tail off at me. We’re in Liscor, the Floodplains.”
“What? What? There’s no teleportation spell that can do that under Tier…”
Madriga realized there were people in the inn. Mostly staff and a few guests, who were all eying her. She shoved Ishkr back in case he used another Skill on her, then tried to set herself against a wall.
Liscor? Wasn’t that countless miles south in the High Passes? Drake lands? How was she going to get back? What was—
Then someone tapped her warhammer on the floorboards of the inn. It was a loud tap, more of a ground-reverberating thunk. Madriga turned, and Captain Earlia of Gemhammer and her team advanced.
“Here I thought we’d miss all the action. So that’s why you told us to stay near the bar, Ishkr. Did you know about this, Todi? Is that why you volunteered for guard duty?”
Todi? As in Todi’s—Madriga saw a man get up from his chair and groan.
“Nah, that’s because I wanted to keep my hearing. Good thing he missed getting Merdon. Hey, rookie. Catch.”
Todi tossed something at Madriga, and she caught a glowing vial reflexively. Then it exploded. Todi sat back down as Ishkr backed up, and Gemhammer charged the stunned adventurer covered in hot, itching liquid that hardened like sap.
Ishkr shook his head as the lone Gold-ranker met a bunch of Silver-rankers with [Miner] strength. Neither side wanted to kill the other, anyways. He sat at the bar.
“This is so embarrassing.”
Todi poured himself a drink and shrugged.
“Eh, it beats having to deal with Loudmouth Merdon himself. How’s it going over there?”
Ishkr grimaced.
“He’s stronger than we thought. But Lyonette just took out one of his big attacks with Ilvriss, and most of the high-levels aren’t hurt. Plus, we haven’t used our secret weapon.”
Todi nodded a few times.
“Sounds good, sounds good. Sounds like Merdon; he’s not good with anyone above Level 40 who has a way to defend against his attacks. Even Level 30s can withstand his attacks. But he’s able to keep shouting. Real nightmare in a group fight. Uh…what’s the secret weapon again?”
 
——
 
Even Lyonette was surprised by Ishkr’s sneak-attack. She hoped he was alright, but she had to admit he’d been very daring. Merdon was swinging his head around, and she was sure between Rags, Grimalkin, and all the other groups they could take him. Merdon was better than she’d thought, it was true, but it was because he had a unique class.
If only they’d had someone with musical Skills of their own they might have had an amazing song-battle. If only. Lyonette felt a pang, and shook her head.
This has gone far enough. She turned to her company and called out.
“No more fighting! I want Merdon and everyone in Tenbault to stand down. He’s used up his Skills, and he knows he can’t beat us easily—send in our highest-level monster!”
 
——
 
Their highest-level monster? Archmage Valeterisa floated up a bit to see who that was. She’d been hiding behind Relc and Montressa since she was waiting for her part. Everyone here was so high-level.
Who could intimidate Merdon, who was definitely Level 40-something? She glanced around and saw Mrsha, Nanette, Montressa, and Relc staring at her.
“Who, me?”
Then she recalled that, yes, she was Level 57. Valeterisa’s eyes widened like a little owl, as if recalling who she was. Then the Archmage of Izril eyed Tenbault, and her features firmed.
She put one fist up into the air, because according to Kevin, that was how you did it—and flew. Kevin, fingers in his ears, peered out with Octavia from cover and sighed.
“Man. That’s so Archmage.”
 
——
 
Merdon was baring his teeth, picking his first target, when he saw the final figure flying upwards. His head spun, and he drew in a lungful of air…
And let it out softly. The Gold-rankers aimed at the short, flying woman in her robes, and Anabeva hesitated.
Then she lowered her bow. Not only because that final figure meant they were well and truly outmatched, but because—
The [Ranger] had an image of loosing an arrow. And then another image of being melted by a hundred thousand [Light Arrows]. She gazed up, and she was ready to fight high-level Hobs. Dance with an [Assassin] if the pay and odds were right.
—But the Archmage of Izril? The Gold-rankers remembered the sight of a woman dueling the Archmage of Chandrar and Mireden of Liscor, lightning falling around her. Rediscovering lost magic.
Holding Fissival over her head.
They dropped their weapons. The Watch was already holding up their hands. And Valeterisa seemed so bemused as she adjusted her spectacles, as if she didn’t know why they gazed up at her like that. She spoke, amplifying her voice.
“Hello? Erm, excuse me. I am Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram. Terras faction. Please halt all hostilities in the name of…Wistram? Yes. Wistram. And House Imarris. I will defend myself with exceptionally lethal force if I am attacked.”
No one moved. She aimed a finger down at Merdon.
“Um—um, a Named-rank adventurer with ranged attacks. Wait, is that Loud Lad? I know him from Larra’s inn. Oh dear. And he did so very well against Montressa, even with our hypothetical sonic preparations. High levels always do. [Prepare Spell: Valmira’s Opener].”
She was finally high-enough to cast one of her idol’s favorite spells, which Valmira had famously used to test potential opponents. If they survived the 8-spell combination, she acknowledged them as a threat. Valeterisa was so glad she’d set up the automated process to bind all the magic for her…
Rather to her relief, she saw Crowdcaller Merdon was not opening his mouth. In fact, he was raising his hands overhead. Valeterisa pointed her finger around, flinching as people ducked, then blinked a few more times.
“Is there anyone who wishes to attack?”
No. Everyone was too afraid to move, so the [Princess] called up.
“Archmage Valeterisa, I think we’re a bit behind schedule. If you would begin your part? Vaulont, is Tessa up there?”
“Yes, Miss. I have eyes on her. Next to Merdon.”
“I’m coming through the gates. Archmage, you have the sky.”
Valeterisa saw Lyonette hop off the wagon and begin limping for the gates. She blinked. And here she’d thought there would be more fighting and…
“Oh. Oh, I do? Well then, um. Where are my notes? Apprentice, where are my notes? [Recall Memory]. Yes, um, hello. I’m terribly sorry to take up your time today, but I would like to make a small presentation on a new spell I have uncovered.”
And then…everyone was just peering up at her. Valeterisa vaguely felt more scrying spells appear, focusing on her, and gave them her best fake smile.
She saw the Healer of Tenbault peeking out from behind a building with a considerable amount of magic in her, light magic specialty, higher-level than many even in Wistram, and Valeterisa waved at her, breaking off from her prepared spiel.
“—iscovery of magic I believe has profound effects on the—oh, hello, Hekusha. We meet again.”
The Healer jumped, and Valeterisa spoke down to the Healer as she floated closer to earth.
“I agreed to come here not, um, because of this business with adventurers. Though I am a very loyal and happy member of the inn! No…rather, I believed this was an opportune time to make my announcement.”
“Y-y-you can’t. You stole it from—this isn’t fair. We had a deal. I didn’t tell anyone anything!”
Hekusha was whispering at Valeterisa, and again, she had that [Loudness] spell on her. Which was sloppy casting. You could cast [Selective Loudness], and it was only Tier 3…but Hekusha didn’t know much magic. She was a one-spell caster, and that was okay.
Heidan the Fireball was very commendable in how he practiced magic. But Valeterisa just frowned down at Hekusha as they had a private conversation for the world to hear.
“Tell anyone anything about…what? Excuse me, I don’t recall.”
The Healer’s face went slack as she realized Valeterisa had utterly forgotten anything but the magic. The Archmage continued frowning, then shrugged.
“Regardless. I would like you to know that this is not magical theft, per se, as Archmage Eldavin did express familiarity with the same magic, and um, Wistram does not acknowledge theft of spells without physical removal of spellbooks or spell scrolls. So there. It is bad form per se, but I consider the economic and cultural impacts worth the effort. And I do not like you. I do not like your magic, Hekusha. So, um, there.”
She didn’t feel as good as she had hoped, to say it to the Healer’s face. Awkwardly, Valeterisa turned and gave the cameras another fake smile.
“Where was I? Oh, yes.”
She put a finger to her forehead, then smiled.
“Hello. I would like to announce a new service being rolled out by select [Mages]. For a long time, the [Restoration] spell has been considered lost magic. However, I am pleased—so pleased, smile here—to announce that I have rediscovered and taught others the spell. Apprentice, please stab yourself with a knife.”
“You can’t do this! You—you—”
Montressa hesitantly produced a knife as Valeterisa spoke, and then every eye was on the Archmage. There were gasps and cries as she floated down and found someone staring up at her in the crowd of people in the streets of Tenbault.
A little boy with a terrible rash across his face and visible skin. Valeterisa reached down, then cast around.
“Um, does anyone have a pair of gloves? Let me conjure…apprentice, un-stab yourself. The average [Mage] at Level 40 can cast this spell twice with appropriate Skills. Large mana-reserves are required, and it is technically difficult to learn. Which does limit the impact, but given the effects…”
It was a difficult spell to learn, and Valeterisa’s mastery of it meant she’d been able to pass it on to her apprentice, and she reckoned other good [Mages] like Grimalkin could learn it; she’d been teaching it to him on the way here.
Lesser [Mages] would require months of study, maybe as much as a year, and they’d have to link to cast it. But it could be done. She had trialed the spell under ‘Valeterisa’s Restoration Services’, but it had not been a widespread or well-known trial, which had miffed her until she’d realized she’d done zero advertising except to tell anyone she met about it—when she remembered.
But this? This was what they called ‘free marketing’, wasn’t it? And more…
Valeterisa bent down, and the boy saw the Archmage of Izril raise a hand that glowed like salvation. The Healer of Tenbault screamed curses, but Valeterisa simply bent down, and the rashes vanished as the boy gasped. And then…
Then Crowdcaller Merdon sighed. A sigh that ran through Tenbault. He sat on the battlements as Hekusha ran towards him.
“Merdon! Merdon, she’s stealing my magic! She’s revealing—she’s going to teach—stop her!”
He took his helmet from his head and placed it next to him. Merdon saw the Archmage levitating the boy up, still not really wanting to touch him, and then asking for another volunteer and recoiling at the cries that filled the air.
Television. She was asking for volunteer [Mages] to learn the spell, and Sinew Magus Grimalkin was first in line—and so was a young woman from Ailendamus who just happened to be here. Lady Paxere, who grinned because of the luck and timing. House Shoel and Ailendamus learning such a wondrous spell. How fortuitous.
Hekusha was shaking him, screaming at him, red-faced, and Merdon whispered.
“It’s over, Hekusha.”
He put his head back against the battlements, and Tessa stared at Hekusha uncomprehendingly. Then she got up as a familiar [Princess] called her name.
“I’m sorry. I’m such a problem.”
She stood timidly in front of the weary Merdon, and he glanced at her once as he gazed at the sky.
“We all are, Tessa. Get lost. I’m going to have a nap.”
 
——
 
Many things happened in Tenbault, little of which were actually on the news. Only Valeterisa’s announcement got full televised coverage, and it was competing with Baker Garry’s expeditions, anyways.
Merdon’s brief battle didn’t even make the Channel 1 roundup.
That was not to say it didn’t happen or that there were not moments of consequence. Many Calanferians did see or find recordings of a certain [Princess] fascinating.
As did a number of nobles of Izril’s north, albeit with less goodwill. Many of the Five Families’ leaders saw the [Princess] besieging Tenbault and laid the resulting events with Valeterisa more or less correctly at her feet.
Perhaps it was what was best for the world, but she had appeared a bit too much, a bit too often. She was becoming a Problem, and unlike the [Innkeeper], a royal of Terandria was closer to home. Something might have to be done about her.
—Still, that was a later consequence. More practically, the fact that [Restoration] was now being taught and cast by more than the Healer of Tenbault sent shockwaves across the world. Wistram’s Terras faction was once again besieged as people flocked to Mage’s Guilds across the world only to be told that [Restoration] was beyond the scope of most [Mages] and so difficult to learn…
You’d need an expert teacher like, say, Valeterisa to learn it. Not that it was impossible.
In fact, Magus Grimalkin and Montressa du Valeros both demonstrated the spell that day to the crowds of Tenbault begging for the magic. Montressa could cast the spell once, Grimalkin only twice before they had to bow out. A reminder that the Healer could still cast the spell far more, but proof the monopoly was breaking. More surprisingly, and a sign it was now a magic for all, was Lady Paxere of House Shoel also managed to cast the spell!
Even Archmage Valeterisa seemed a bit incredulous at the young woman’s ability to master the spell in a day despite having the right Skills to learn it—but it was a reminder of Ailendamus’ magical mastery, and it put House Shoel and the Kingdom of Glass and Glory at the forefront of innovation once more.
 
——
 
Paxere was rather smug about that. She ignored Shierxun’s pointed looks; so what if it had been a bit showy and too convenient? It allowed House Shoel to cast the spell openly, and that would be very useful…
“I suppose it is your right, and daring is a mark of youth that often goes rewarded. At times. I shall see what the courts make of it.”
“I shall be quite amused by it myself.”
It was Shierxun’s smirk that alerted Paxere to the catch in her assumptions. The older Lucifen twirled a wand mockingly in her hands.
“Sadly, I believe I will have the luxury for at least a month.”
“Why would that b—”
Paxere stopped, and Shierxun’s lips became a full grin of mockery.
“Why, because Lady Paxere is now, publicly, officially visiting Izril. As far as Tenbault. Doubtless, it will take weeks, possibly longer for her to leave the continent. I do appreciate your tremendous sacrifice travelling so far in service to Ailendamus.”
Paxere bit back a curse as she stood there, realizing she was now locationally stranded for quite some time.
 
——
 
Little things. The last of which was a young Human woman with cracks on her face having a conversation with a scarred Drake in the Healer of Tenbault’s mansion later that day. The Drake kept inspecting the cracks on Lyonette’s visage, claws so delicate as Tessa felt her at her features that they didn’t hurt. And Lyonette just counted Tessa’s scars.
“You shouldn’t have come. I read your letters. I burned them. I’m not—not—well. The Healer can heal me, but the Faerie Flowers don’t work. Go away. I’ll stab you if you don’t. I’m dangerous. You’ll regret it. I’ll steal from you or stab you by mistake again. I’m worse. I’m not getting better. Why’d you—why’d you do all that for me?”
All the things Tessa had been meaning to say, all the things she hadn’t had the courage to write, came spilling out in no particular order. It was Lyonette who stared at Tessa’s missing tooth.
“Oh, Tessa. Was that from fighting or…”
Tessa hid her mouth with a claw.
“It’s just a tooth. I’ll get b—”
She stopped. Then shuffled around and curled up.
“Go away.”
Lyonette reached for her shoulder, and Tessa’s head spun around, and she snapped her teeth a millimeter from Lyonette’s fingers.
“I’m dangerous. I’ll kill you!”
Dame Ushar was there with shield in hand, but Lyonette merely waved her aside. She reached out again.
“Tessa? I’d like to touch your shoulder. Don’t stab me, please? May I?”
“Leave me alone. Why’d you even come for me? I’m not—not good at fighting. I’m getting worse. You don’t need me anymore.”
That was what hurt the most. Tessa curled into a ball, and she realized that dream she’d sometimes had of Lyonette coming and saying she was in danger, that the inn needed Tessa…wasn’t true anymore.
They had Elia Arcsinger and the Goblins and the Sinew Magus. But Lyonette simply sat there.
“We don’t need you. I want you, Tessa. I owe it to you. I promised I’d help you, remember? Erin did. We let you down. We didn’t go after you when you ran.”
“I ran away. You’re not supposed to follow me. That’s how it works.”
She was really stupid. But the [Princess] shook her head.
“You were our responsibility. You need help, Tessa.”
“Hekusha helps me.”
“No, she does not.”
“Yes she does.”
Lyonette took a breath.
“She’s exploiting you, Tessa. She heals you, but Vaulont told me she’d begun advertising your services. She’s not halting your use of—of substances. She hoards her magic and—”
“Don’t talk bad about her.”
The Drake uncurled and grabbed Lyonette’s shoulders. So fast, teeth bared, as Dame Ushar reached for her—Lyonette flinched, and a spasm of pain crossed her features. Tessa saw her skin—
Change.
Raised lines of flesh appeared on the [Princess]’ skin. Scars, hundreds of them, crisscrossing her, as if she’d been cut and wounded. Pockmarks and—
Tessa let go and retreated in horror. Lyonette gasped.
“Oh, Tessa.”
“Wh-what was that? A curse? Who did it to you? I’ll kill them.”
Tessa drew her daggers, but Lyonette merely pushed Ushar aside again. She collected herself, though it took a minute.
“Just…[Resonant Flesh]. I levelled up. It was my Level 40 Skill, Tessa. A trade of sorts. Sometimes, I feel how other people feel. Your skin—!”
What kind of Skill did that? She was so distracted she forgot why Lyonette had to leave. The [Princess] was explaining, and it was all confusing. Boxes? The inn? Erin?
Erin.
Tessa turned around again and hunched over.
“I didn’t protect her. That’s why it’s my fault. I could have. I could have killed Iert even if he killed me, but he broke me into pieces. With one Skill. I always thought—I always thought even if I was messed up, I could still kill anything. He didn’t even think I was dangerous. I’m not going to get better, Lyonette.”
“I have all the potions Ilvriss told me you needed, Tessa. And I’ve been talking to [Healers] and experts, from the Last Light to House Shoel—I know it won’t be easy, but—”
Tessa screamed at Lyonette.
“It doesn’t matter! I can’t help it! I promise I won’t take them, and I always break it! I always do. Again and again, I know I’m lying. I swear I’ll cut off my tail before I do it again, but I always do.”
She clawed at her face until Lyonette seized her hands, and Tessa whispered.
“I was trying. Really trying with the flowers because I knew it was my last chance. But it doesn’t matter. What’s the point? I can do everything right, be good and clean and healthy for months. Then all it takes is him pointing. One Skill. And it’s all over.”
There was no salvation if a Skill could reverse that. The [Princess]’ breath caught, and she hesitated, looking around Tenbault.
“Tessa. I know what he did, and Iert’s dead. I know that for a fact.”
“Doesn’t matter. It’ll happen again.”
“Only if a monster like that targets you, Tessa. And maybe you can resist it, next time! I know it feels hopeless, but if you were healing your body for months and someone stabs you—sometimes, we run into setbacks, but I want you to try again. Please. Everyone came all this way for you. Ilvriss, Nanette, Mrsha, Grimalkin—”
Tessa felt sick. She wanted to take some Roama’s Fancy and dream of a better reality than this. Because she had wanted Lyonette to come, had longed for it. But now that it was happening…
“I’m going to hurt you. I don’t want to, but I’m going to. I’m dangerous, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] opened her mouth, and Shriekblade glared at her. This time, Ushar stood there, and Lyonette flinched because a bit of the murder in Tessa, the ability to kill, leaked out. The Drake could do it. She could stab the [Princess] through the face, and the Thronebearer, Ushar, and the [Knight] who was hiding behind the pillar, Vaulont—no one—would be able to stop her.
I am death. The one thing she was good for. Tessa whispered.
“I’m not…okay. I can’t escape from this. I lie and think I am, and I won’t. Hekusha heals me, I hurt myself. That works because she can heal me. If I go with you…I’m going to get worse, and I’m not going to have a healer.”
“Valeterisa can cast [Restoration], Tessa.”
“Every day?”
Hesitation. Whatever the [Princess] had thought she’d find…Tessa laughed.
“Knowing I can be healed makes it worse. Then I can take everything. I’m going to! I realized it! I can’t stop myself! So just leave me alone, please! I’m going to make your life worse. Why are you doing all this for me?”
She wanted to curl up again, but Lyonette wouldn’t let go of her wrists, and Tessa didn’t want to hurt her by moving too strongly. The [Princess] let go and rested her hands on Tessa’s shoulders, then spoke after a long pause.
“To tell you the truth, Tessa. Some of this is selfishness. I—I’m lying to you a bit. And myself. I have to be honest. I must be.”
The Drake’s head rose ever-so-slightly. Selfish? Tessa felt a moment of hope.
Maybe she was in danger after all. Was the inn…bad? Tessa could do that. Shriekblade could do that. Go and let her try to help. Then die. Yes. The next time something came. Goblin King. Bloodfeast Raiders. Die doing something good for the only people nice to—
Lyonette’s eyes made Tessa hesitate. The [Princess]’ blue gaze was focused on Tessa, and it felt like Tessa had taken some King’s Draught after all, because the world fell away. It was just them, and there was a pride and grace there. Only it was aimed at Tessa, and she didn’t understand.
“I see myself in you, Tessa. That’s one of the real reasons. I promised to help, and I knew that you did not belong here. You were hurting yourself, and I had to come. Because you…you remind me of when I came to the inn. You know I’m a [Princess]?”
“Yeah. Of somewhere.”
Lyonette nodded.
“Calanfer. I ran away from home two years ago. During the winter, I was caught in Liscor as a [Thief]. I did so many terrible, petty things. I stole, I cheated, and I thought it was all I deserved…I was a dreadful, pathetic little villainess, and as punishment, I was exiled and left to die in the snow. I would have. But you know what? Someone found me. Erin took me into her inn and gave me a second chance. And a third chance. Because of that, I’m here today.”
She smiled, and she was fragile as a piece of porcelain. Tessa was afraid to move, because she felt like Lyonette might physically shatter if she did. But at the same time, the [Princess] felt…vaster. More sure of herself.
Like that art from Drath where you broke a pot and then glued it together with gold or something precious. She’d seen it in Salazsar’s museum once. Lyonette went on softly.
“I think you need that chance, Tessa. Maybe I can’t give you everything you need at the inn. Maybe you’ll fail, and maybe…maybe you won’t get better.”
Tessa’s heart hurt, and she bowed her head. The truth of the [Midnight Journey] hung on her, but Lyonette’s voice was soft.
“I don’t know the future, but I want to try. And I do know this: you’ll never be well here. That’s why I had to come and break Tenbault. Please, come with me. Don’t run. Or I’ll have to follow you. Give me a chance, Tessa.”
“You’ll regret it. You will. I’m…I’m not strong.”
Tessa saw Ilvriss in Lyonette’s face. A [Healer] from the Gaarh Marsh tribe. A [Receptionist] at the Guild. A Silver-rank adventurer.
Everyone who had ever helped her and their looks of regret, anger, despair. Betrayal. Oh, she was tired of adding more faces to the list. But the [Princess] held her hands.
“You don’t have to always be strong, Tessa. Just try? For me?”
Because she had come this far, because Tessa hadn’t the strength to argue, the Drake let her head hang.
“Okay.”
Lyonette gasped with relief and hugged her, and Tessa waited for the sun to come up and all wrongs to be righted.
They were not righted. She felt empty, sick, and tired. Then she knew.
A good person had come for her. She had brought wonders and miracles. But not for Tessa. She’d used all hers up.
That was okay.
Tessa had a way out. So she relaxed and gently hugged Lyonette and let her fuss and ask about clothing and possessions, things she assumed Tessa had. She’d let the [Princess] be a good person and try to save her. The Drake wouldn’t inconvenience her long.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin let Tessa collect her various possessions from her rooms and was taking a break on a bench for a moment. She tired so quickly, and the pain…
Tessa was in a lot of it. Lyonette felt like Apista, sick with so many residual drugs in her system that Tessa clearly could barely feel or assumed were normal.
They’d get back to the inn and begin work. Right away. Lyonette wondered what Valeterisa was doing; Tenbault’s people had been besieging her, and she’d had to fly away.
“This city is so dreadful. How could anyone live here?”
“I didn’t make it. They made it this way. They ruin everything. That damn Archmage will see. You’ll see.”
She was speaking to herself, shuddering, when someone spoke in a low, bitter tone. Hekusha stepped out from behind a doorway, and Lyonette jumped, but Ser Dalimont was there. However, the Healer wasn’t a threat.
She looked pale, bloodless, and was swaying on her feet. Valeterisa’s revelation had ruined the Healer’s prestige and power. But she was still rich, Lyonette supposed. There was not much sympathy in her for Hekusha, even after what she’d done. However, the two hadn’t actually spoken properly until now.
“Healer Hekusha. I do regret how I treated you, but your conduct towards Tessa was improper. I wish we had met under more cordial circumstances.”
Hekusha spat onto the ground. Or drooled. She wiped at her mouth.
“You think you’re so high-and-mighty. You come into my city with all your powerful friends. Just like Magnolia.”
“I’ll consider that a compliment, thank you.”
What a dreadful woman. How had Magnolia ever trusted her? Lyonette tried to keep the dislike from her face, but Hekusha simply laughed at her. She pointed at Tessa’s room.
“Go ahead, take Shriekblade. I wash my hands of her now you’ve ruined me. Merdon will be next. Then…no, go ahead. Maybe you can save her. But it’ll only be her. The rest of Tenbault? They’ll stay. They’ll run after Valeterisa and realize she doesn’t have the mana to spare on them. How many can the others heal? I can heal more than all of them put together, and none of them will spend the time healing. So take my Named-rank adventurer. I was the one who saved her.”
“You have used her unkindly. She was so grateful to you! She trusted you! Is this how you repay her? This city—why did you not help so many more? It’s a miserable place, and you made it this way!”
The Healer flinched back as Lyonette’s aura did what she physically could not. She cowered, then whined.
“You think you could do better? Go ahead and try! This is how it works! You save one person. Just one. Or only a handful, and everyone else dies and blames you. They’re never grateful. It’ll never be enough!”
Lyonette’s jaw worked as she rose, letting Dalimont support her. He was eying Hekusha with distaste, and the [Princess] pointed a finger at the Healer.
“Is that an excuse? You could have spread your magic. You had decades! You could have done so much more! You worked miracles, and if you had put the gold into [Healers], into other methods, students, you could have done a hundred, a thousand times more! But you didn’t! Was it just…greed? Did you want to be rich?”
Hekusha’s bloodshot eyes stared at Lyonette like some monster as she hid her face with her hands, her hair falling around her staring eyes.
“Spoken like someone who’s always had money and power. Everyone wants a miracle. No one wants to pay for one. It’s always damn shingling for my roof, a few loaves of bread. I work myself to death, trying to breathe at night, trying not to die of mana exhaustion and someone hands me three gold coins and gets offended when I ask for more! To buy mana potions to keep from passing out every time I stand up. Then they complain about taking six days for me to get to them or that I can’t fix their every, petty little wart!”
Her voice was rising into a half-screamed tirade, and her eyes rolled. Lyonette hesitated as Hekusha went on, vomiting words like her insides onto the marble tiles, foul as bile.
“They blame me for their son dying even after I heal them when their heart was bad. It wasn’t my fault. They expect me to know medicine when I’m a [Mage]. T-to work actual miracles. Then they want me to fight in wars, to save towns from the plague. I’m simply a woman. They break into my house and hold a knife to my throat and tell me to heal them. And I’m supposed to feel guilty for them?”
She pointed a hand out her windows, and the [Princess] stopped. Lyonette took in a breath, exhaled, and nodded.
“I’m sorry.”
Hekusha stared at her, and Lyonette bowed her head stiffly.
“It must have been hard. You worked miracles alone. That…must have made you bitter. Magnolia should have taught two people that magic. She should have kept you with her. That’s her fault. But some of it is yours. Nevertheless, you’ve saved thousands, tens of thousands of people over your career. For that, I thank you. But the knowledge had to spread.”
The Healer sagged down to the floor and sat cross-legged.
“You think you’re so high-and-mighty. Coming in and ruining it all. Go ahead, leave. You’ll turn out like I did.”
When she peered up, she flinched. Despite the fading light, Lyonette stood bathed in a raybeam coming from the ceiling. She leaned upon her golden knight’s shoulder as, in the courtyard, her daughters played catch with Goblins. Lyonette gazed out at them as a Wall Lord fielded a baseball and tripped.
“No. The difference, Healer Hekusha, is that I’m not alone. I truly am sorry. If you are ever down on your luck, I will offer you a chance at my inn or Liscor. Even a second chance, Hekusha.”
She turned and began walking towards Tessa’s room again, limping as the Healer stared at her back. Lyonette halted just once and turned her head to address the silent man who sat on a bench, watching her.
“But not you.”
Crowdcaller Merdon’s head dipped slightly. He didn’t look surprised at her words. If anything, he seemed confused as to why she’d even said that. His compressed lips didn’t open, and Lyonette continued.
“We are all deserving of a second chance, or even a third. I truly believe that if I can be this…”
She touched her chest and turned to Hekusha, who averted her head from the mysterious expression Lyonette wore that the Healer could not understand. It reminded her too much of Magnolia. A young [Lady] blazing with excitement and an idea, a chance for her friend.
The searchlights of the [Princess]’ gaze swung back to Merdon.
“However, we are all going to be needed soon. We must rise to this age of challenges. I wish it could be a peaceful era in which we can rest, but it will not be. Some of us must go forwards to face it. My inn is a place for wonders, magic, and sometimes, terrible war. But if it has reached the inn, it is too late. The New Lands await. There are beasts to be slain. Tessa needs healing. But I will hurl good men and women across the world if I have to. So this is how she felt.”
She closed her eyes and then turned, and this time, Crowdcaller Merdon saw someone else in her. Not the young Lady Magnolia Reinhart, but a [Wizard] standing on a table in the little inn she’d bought, retiring and trying something new. Larracel…
The [Princess] pointed at him.
“Not you, Merdon.”
Now, he almost growled back at her, annoyed. I know. I’m not asking for your pity, even if…he locked eyes with her, and the blue was blazing like a magical flame.
“I’ll see you in the field, Merdon. Hekusha may have her second or third. You’ll have to earn yours, if you even need it. You’ll waste your voice here. But if you go where you’re needed, you’ll find a song even more beautiful than the one you lost. I promise you that, Merdon.”
The Named-rank adventurer and Healer of Tenbault stared at Lyonette, and here, something about how she was talking clicked.
If you need a second chance.
Did she think he was still on his first…? Merdon blinked and then rasped, his throat scratchy and hoarse.
“If…”
He coughed.
“If you actually fix Tessa, you’ll take away her edge. That’s all that keeps her going. She’d be happier if you used her like a weapon. It’d be easier for her. Fixing herself…Tessa doesn’t care about herself. She’d throw herself into an Adult Creler’s mouth for someone else. But getting her to drink a cup of water is far harder.”
Lyonette grimaced, and she stood there. Then she jerked her head abruptly.
“Yes. It might actually be the right choice to do that in some ways. My mother would consider it. But I will not, even if she is needed, Merdon.”
“Why? The goodness of your heart?”
There was a glint in his eyes that suggested that if she said ‘yes’, he would shout his contempt and damn all the consequences. Lyonette faced him full-on.
“Not that. I simply want Tessa to be able to choose. Choose without her addictions and her mind being manipulated. As you have, again and again. Rightly, wrongly, cowardice or loyalty, whatever she decides. I hope that if she does, I will not gainsay what she chooses.”
He blinked at her, then averted his gaze. She walked past him, and Tessa stood in her rooms, her bag of holding in one claw. She gazed at the [Princess], not knowing what to say, and Lyonette offered her a hand.
“Walk with me, Tessa. Let’s find out who we are when we are free. Together.”
Hesitantly, Tessa placed her clawed hand in Lyonette’s, and they walked away from the Healer and Merdon. Tessa glanced back just once. Merdon raised a hand, and she waved at him. And she thought he smiled, for a second.
He should do it more. She’d forgotten how it made him look.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn had swept Tenbault, found their lost adventurer, and were leaving. They hadn’t done much damage to the city; Merdon had arguably done more with his voice, which had cracked windows and stonework.
But they had still dealt a terrible blow to…everything.
People were leaving. Packing up, because even if the Healer of Tenbault would remain and she was still able to cast [Restoration] far, far more reliably than anyone else—
There were other places to go. Other [Mages] who might provide that miracle, and in a way—
The family that Gadrea had given the amulet to had come back. She’d been a day on the road when they’d had a crisis, wondering if that amulet and their good fortune might not lead to more. So they’d turned, despite their son’s breathless protests to listen to the kind lady, and been back just in time to see the fight at the city gates.
It was just as well that the Agelum was already far down the road, because the sight of the family returning despite her gift would not have broken Gadrea’s heart. It would have just made the crow’s feet around her eyes crinkle up in a grimace, that of someone who had believed in someone and been let down. Then she would take a breath and choose to believe again.
—The Lucifen were far less forgiving. You got one chance. There was little excuse for failure. Excuses were that: excuses. Paxere’s eyes flashed as she glanced at the family, but they were leaving, again.
“There’s other kinds of healing, just as the lady said. Liscor. Liscor has those scrolls, or we’ll find someone to help you gain that [Warrior] class. Perhaps if Archmage Valeterisa saw you—”
The father cast his eyes towards Tenbault, as if just now seeing all the grime and the amount of gold wasted there instead of the shining city and the miracle of the Healer. The boy, wheezing for a reply, glared up at his parents, but here it was.
The magic had faded. If Hekusha were just an exceptional caster of a magic spell, then she was someone providing a valuable service.
Not the Healer of Tenbault.
It was over.
 
——
 
—But justice had not been served, had it? Look at this city. Look at this city!
It was so miserable! The Plague Quarter—a place where the other cities sent people to wait for miracles and die. All the gold that the Healer had taken to build her mansion, which was richer than most nobles’ residences, all this vanity—
A Cooking Golem for hat’s sake! No, that wasn’t the outrageous part. The outrageous part was that Hekusha could have taught her magic before this. Been known as both teacher and healer and made Izril better.
Imagine it. A hundred students and practicing [Healing Mages] delivering a thousand times more people to health. It would have made Izril glorious, and this woman had squandered it. Tessa alone had earned Hekusha a punishment she was not getting. Ruining her reputation and business?
Retribution had to be dealt before they left. That was why, as Lyonette and Tessa were walking out of the city’s gates, assembling the inn to depart, a pair of arguing girls were hurrying through the mansion. They had bodyguards of course; Elia Arcsinger and Ser Dalimont. Bird was busy terrorizing the Gold-rank adventurers.
For once, just once—it wasn’t Mrsha’s fault. In fact, she was trying to stop Nanette.
Nanette, Nanette, this is a really bad idea. This is a classic Mrsha move, and you don’t want to see what happens when you get into me-levels of trouble.
“Someone’s got to give her a bit of comeuppance, Mrsha! And I have just the thing!”
Nanette had a boot. She wasn’t sure if she could really shove it as far as she’d been claiming, but a good boot hurt, especially if you bounced it off someone’s head at the right angle. Mrsha turned to their protectors.
Elia, Dalimont, do something!
“I’m just a bodyguard. So long as we don’t cross Merdon, it’s not my call.”
Elia was being professional, and Dalimont? He was looking the other way as Mrsha glared at him.
“As loyal Thronebearer of Calanfer, it is not my place to question Miss Nanette’s will, Mrsha.”
That damn traitor. He wanted to see Nanette use the boot! Mrsha rolled her eyes and pulled down her eyelids. She knew Hekusha was as nasty as diarrhea in your soup! She was a terrible person, but this was going to make an enemy the inn didn’t need.
However, Boot Nanette was coming, and the Healer of Tenbault was unguarded. She’d finished screaming at Merdon, and the Named-rank adventurer was in his rooms. Bandaging the few wounds he’d taken. Sitting.
Thinking of the future. Since he no longer had steady work.
She’d fired him. Fired him, instead of him quitting.
That long loyalty, this miserable city—
Back to the madness. Back to the death and chaos and…
He sat there.
Crying.
The two girls and their protectors paused a moment by the half-open door to his rooms and heard the soft sounds from within. Then Mrsha held out a paw, and Nanette handed her a second boot.
They went to find Hekusha.
 
——
 
The Healer of Tenbault was in her rooms, voice raw from screaming, tears running down her face, besmirching the makeup and Foundation of Youthfulness that cost so much, and she knew it was ruined.
She would get revenge on that [Princess]. Somehow.
She didn’t need Merdon! She’d have to restructure Tenbault. Lower prices. But Merdon had always cost too much.
Golems. Golems were expensive, but they worked forever. They didn’t complain, they could handle crowds—she had funds. Hekusha was biting her nails as the doors to her rooms creaked open. She never noticed the shadow creeping into the room until there was a voice.
One final judgement. Or perhaps…
“Healer Hekusha. You have a caller waiting.”
Hekusha screamed, whirled, and the [Maid] was there, holding out a speaking stone. One of the fancy, long-ranged models few could afford.
The [Maid]…was she a new hire to Hekusha’s staff in the mansion? The Healer didn’t know, and she flinched back. Because that uniform, the way she’d come in and spoken—
“You’re one of her minions, aren’t you? S-stay back.”
“Lady Reinhart would like to speak to you, Healer.”
“If you’re going to kill me, just do it! I’m not afraid! I always knew she’d kill me once she had no more use for me. Her power’s gone. She’ll have to execute the rest of her family if she wants her authority back! Is that why she put the [Princess] up to this? Spite? Well, I won’t grovel before—”
A voice interrupted Hekusha’s ranting, coming from the speaking stone, and it was annoyed, unusually upset, and terse.
“Hekusha, pick up the damn speaking stone, would you?”
The Healer flinched. She stared at the stone, then snatched it and lifted it to her lips. The [Maid] stepped back, glanced at the doorway, and the two boot-armed children hesitated as they listened.
One last conversation.
 
——
 
When they were young, they’d talk.
Oh, they had so much time to talk. It wasn’t easy; they all had to find the moments. Magnolia had to escape her guards and leave the mansion. It got easier with Ressa helping her.
Bethal could ride from her lands, and she’d have a day before her parents would send someone to find her; she’d sleep in bushes or the stables and come out, crazy-haired, and always with stories to tell.
Hecky, Hekusha, would be last. Rushing out of her master’s workshop where she slept, ink on her hands from scribing scrolls or with gemdust under her fingernails from having to lay magical circuits.
They weren’t always…happy. Bethal had cuts and scrapes from her adventures, but it wasn’t the same as blisters on Hekusha’s fingers from being worked from dusk till dawn. And Magnolia…
She didn’t have visible injuries, but sometimes she’d just go walking and ranting for hours about her family. And because they knew the Reinharts, no one else would say a word.
Bethal, Hecky, Ressa, when she chose to speak, sometimes Pryde, or even Wuvren despite being older…but not just them.
Gladys of House Alice. Thibev the Cranky. Webvei, the only [Servant] who’d stand up to Ressa. Lady Errigat, ten years their elder and drawn to this gathering of young [Ladies]…
When she spoke to Magnolia after so long, Hekusha remembered the dead. They were so distant now. She didn’t have any pictures of them. Just memories.
Lady Gladys, lying on a bed of roses, hands clasped over her chest. Cut in half at the waist. Lying in a waiting room with the wounded Flowers of Izril after the Goblin King’s defeat at First Landing, and Bethal screaming at Hekusha. Screaming as she held her friend, begging Hekusha to save…
It would have been too late if Hekusha had been there the second Gladys had been cut in twain. House Walchaís dead but for their last heir. Her magic exhausted, seeing friends lying still and cold, faces covered by white veils.
Those they even found. And then Magnolia Reinhart, wearing the Crown of Flowers, standing with blood up to the neckline of her dress, eyes so distant and lost as she peered around—
 
——
 
“Magnolia?”
For just a moment, she forgot her rage. And they were children again. Running around in the shadow of great houses, dreaming of how to make it better.
—Then decades flew between them, and the resentment overflowed the well of Hekusha’s heart, and she snarled.
“You must be so happy.”
“Hekusha. Would you believe me if I said I wasn’t? Truly and sincerely, I wish it hadn’t come to this.”
“Oh, I know you wish it were otherwise. I know you wish I’d stayed dancing to your tune. Well, I didn’t, and you managed to win in the end. Are you going to have me killed like everyone else who crossed you? Between you and the Goblin King, you’ve managed to prune the north of all the nobility! Funny, I used to think that’d be so grand.”
All the grudges she’d carried, all the anger burst from Hekusha when she’d never dared to say it to Magnolia’s face before. Now this was the end, it was liberating.
The [Lady] paused. When she spoke, her voice seemed…honest. When she lied, she was bright, cheerful. But she sounded pained. And angry.
“Hekusha, no one is going to kill you. I realize you do not believe or trust me, and I confess, I have a significant grudge against you. I do not relish your downfall as much as I wish I could, but it is for the best. But kill you? You would be dead if I wanted you so, Hekusha. Believe me. I will kill Bethal. The moment she steps out of her lands, she is dead. You have not drowned in your own blood, so do me the courtesy of believing what I say is true.”
Hekusha flinched. Bethal? Dead? They had been the best of friends. The best of…
“You really are the Executioner of Izril.”
“I deserve that name as much as you do, Hekusha.”
The Healer was drawing breath for an insult when Magnolia went on softly.
“You earned it. But it is time to let it go, Hecky. I wish you had retired instead after creating a school of magical healers the likes of which the world had never seen. That was my dream. I thought it was yours, but I see I was mistaken.”
The Healer of Tenbault stood there. She wanted to spit insults and scream, but her throat was raw, and she was so damn tired. She collapsed onto a couch and rasped.
“You know what, Magnolia? It was. It truly was. I remember you suggesting it, again and again, and back when I first started, I was going to find an apprentice as soon as I had a day off. Start trying to streamline the spell and teaching it. When I first bought out Tenbault’s land rights to build the mansion, I was thinking of a school.”
“I recall. What changed, Hekusha?”
“What changed? Nothing. Nothing at all.”
“…I don’t understand.”
The Healer of Tenbault smiled, bitter.
“You wouldn’t. You’ve always been the same, Magnolia. It’s like you don’t age.”
“I take that as a compliment, Hekusha, I suppose?”
“Oh, don’t mistake me. Your body ages. You’ve aged like a bad pear. You’ve put on weight, despite whatever trick you’re using to keep it all off with that sugar, you’re out of shape, you walk and tut like you’re a decade older than you are—”
“Ah, so this is metaphorical. Thank you for clarifying.”
Hekusha wished there were any pleasure in this, but something was escaping her chest, like water releasing from an over-filled bucket, and it was neither pure insult nor…
“But you don’t change on the inside. You’re still that insane girl who swore she’d clean up House Reinhart. The same one who came to me with a dream and that half-Elf—Archmage Eldavin. Don’t think I didn’t recognize him. You were the same when you rode against the Antinium and the Goblin King. Pursuing that mad dream of peace with the Drakes. I’ve known you for forty years, and you’ve never wavered.”
“…Which implies you have.”
Hekusha drew breath, then screamed.
“Who wouldn’t? Do you think I can be that same girl who was trying to learn my first Tier 3 spell? Who—who was afraid of being beaten for failing to wake up and sweeping and wanted to work herself to the bone for your approval? I became my own woman. I gained power, and I finally became your equal, and you hated it.”
“Hekusha. I never thought of you as being anything less.”
Hekusha closed her eyes.
“Of course you didn’t. Just like Ressa’s your ‘equal’ despite you paying her. I enjoyed it, Magnolia, I did. You weren’t as bad as the other Reinharts. There. That’s the compliment of a lifetime. You gave me that spell and support, and I acknowledge this. But you want to know why we don’t talk, how we came to this? You let me down.”
“I fear I did. I was listening to you, Hekusha. Watching.”
The Healer’s lips twisted in contempt.
“Of course you were. Did you enjoy it?”
“No. I…knew you had been attacked before. I knew you put your effort into healing. I didn’t realize how bitter it had made you.”
“You didn’t realize…? You gave me a spell no one else had and left me alone!”
“I gave you gold, and whenever you asked for help, I connected you with people.”
Hekusha was shaking her head, like a dog shaking a bone.
“That’s all you do. That’s all you do, Magnolia. You hand someone a miracle, a bag of gold, a—an artifact, and then you leave them alone. You give a village the blueprints to build a new warehouse, the tools, and then you get mad when they don’t do it.”
“I give them a chance. Should I hold their hands? No one grows from that! No one levels without adversity, Hekusha!”
Now the [Lady] was getting angry, and Hekusha snapped back.
“I would have traded ten levels for your help!”
Magnolia fell silent. Hekusha drew in a shuddering breath, and a younger [Mage] was screaming into the speaking stone. When she had never dared to.
“If you’d only help me, Mags, take me into your mansion or—or just take over, I could do it. I’m not like you. I can’t manage all this myself. I’m just a [Mage]. I can’t be everything you want. Just help me, please. Help me and—”
She couldn’t breathe. She was doing her finances in her house as people banged on her shutters, begging for help. Cowering as someone held a knife to her throat. Trying to interview [Apprentices] while seeing how their eyes stole to her spellbook and seeing the greed in them.
“Not everyone can pull themselves up, you know. You think too highly of people. You always have. You hate your family, and you know exactly how petty, gruesome, and evil they are, but you think the common woman’s so much better. Sometimes, she’s neither [Hero] nor [Murderer]. Just a woman. Well, you’ve made me into what I am. I hope you see that.”
She poured it all onto Magnolia, hoping it would break the [Lady]. Just a bit. Just one iota, and Magnolia Reinhart was silent for a long, long time. Before she said—
“I suppose this has been my greatest sin, Hekusha. I…I forgot about you at times. But I also wanted you to be my equal, I think. I didn’t wish to help you because then I would be giving you orders. I dreamed of a day when you’d walk into a room and be more than me.”
“You naïve idiot. You were always like this.”
“Yes. I suppose I was. And I learned how to help people from someone who was too old. Too…used to being let down, perhaps. I shouldn’t have left you alone. I should have been right by your side.”
For a moment, Hekusha tried to imagine it. Her riding around with Magnolia and Ressa or flying House Reinhart’s flag over the city. Embroiled in politics, dodging assassins.
Was it better or worse? The vision flickered in her mind, and she turned away from it because it hurt too much.
“Too late for dreams. You got what you wanted. The magic’s spreading.”
“You could have taught them. What made you stop? Hekusha, I have to know.”
“What made me stop? You wanted me to give away the only thing that made me special. Me, Magnolia. After all I’ve done for Izril. I am the Healer of Tenbault, and those who come to me thank me, worship my feet, then the moment they’re healed, they’re riding away and never glance back once. Why do I charge them so much? Because their gratitude means nothing. If they even have it.”
Hekusha was rocking back and forth in her seat, like she’d seen Tessa do, and Magnolia’s voice was soft, now. Like she were about to slumber.
“But they do care, Hekusha. I have seen their tributes to you. Gifts from those who wished to do you some service, even if they had no coin. Merdon. Why do you think he stayed? It wasn’t just cowardice. I have seen art of you, heard tributes, songs—”
“Hah.”
“Hekusha. Have you forgotten what it looks like? Or is it just—invisible to you after so long? Because I know how that feels. Every criticism and critique is far, far louder than the thanks. But it is there.”
The Healer of Tenbault glanced around blindly, but her lavish rooms had nothing but her own possessions. Nothing…
Wait, there. She saw a little shelf with a few items strewn on it, above the enchanted fireplace. She stood and saw a sheathed dagger on it. A faded gold medal. A preserved flower in a glass case, and a handmade doll.
The very first gift she ever…
“I am too old. You should have replaced me. You should have entrusted your miracle to more than one person, Magnolia. Leave me alone. Please.”
Hekusha turned away from the mantle and walked towards her bed. Magnolia’s voice was soft.
“I do not know…how to grant second chances, Hekusha. It is not something I am good at. I judge. I like to believe I grant first chances, if not well enough. I am better at slaying monsters who wear the faces of people than making this world a better place. I will leave you, and I am sorry.”
Hekusha said nothing at all. She put the speaking stone down on an end table and lay on her bed as the [Maid] stepped forwards, and Magnolia’s voice continued gently.
“When I learn, I shall return, Hekusha. It is not over for any of us. My friend—I wish you the best. Thank you for your service, Healer of Tenbault.”
The woman said nothing at all. She just lay there and dreamed of the past for a while. Tears in the eyes of a Gold-rank adventurer. A nervous young Drake with black scales.
She slept…and no boots hit her on the head. The two girls left as the [Maid] gathered the speaking stone up and strode out of the room. Leaving regrets and, as ever—
A wish for a better world. A different timeline. But when the little Gnoll girl glanced over her shoulder, she just saw the reality of now.
Perhaps that too would change.
You could only hope.
 
——
 
That was how they left Tenbault. The [Princess] sat with her daughters spilling around her, offering Tessa tonics and asking if she was well, if she needed a blanket, talking about all the things they’d do in the inn and checking on her, and the Drake just sat there.
She felt like Hekusha had looked. Stunned and confused. But mostly empty. She drank, ate, talked, and let the [Princess] and the others bathe her with kindness.
It leaked out her empty, damaged heart, and she felt not a thing.
 
——
 
Later, at some point, in The Wandering Inn, Tessa woke up when the Gnoll named Ishkr she vaguely remembered knocked on the doors, and she went down to breakfast.
Before that, she drank a tonic prepared for her specially by the [Alchemist], Octavia, and she ate a curated meal from Calescent. Then she’d hang around and talk to Lyonette, and if she needed to, she could go back to her rooms which were decorated, and someone would check on her regularly, but otherwise she could relax.
If she wanted to work, they had some tasks for her, and she was going to have duties when she was finished with the ‘detox’ process. This time, Lyonette would ensure Tessa ate three square meals a day, got exercise, sunlight, conversation, and she had prepared both alchemy and magic to help with cravings or mood swings.
Mrsha and Nanette tried to also talk to Tessa, and they’d given her a special blanket infused with some ‘warmth’ made by [Witches]. The staff would talk to Tessa, especially the chattering Asgra, and everyone wanted her to get better.
Tessa had a packet of Carivek in the sole of her left boot. She hadn’t told anyone she had it. She kept nearly opening it and mixing it into some water.
She wanted to drink it. She wanted to take some Dreamleaf from the Ashfire Bee. She wanted to inject something into her veins. Her own blood. Wine.
She thirsted for it like she was dying in a desert for a drop of water. The Carivek was the sweetest thing in the world, and she stared at the packet as it dissolved in the water and turned it black.
One sip.
Then Lyonette would forgive her, and they’d all try again. She’d probably try to sweep Tessa’s rooms, but the Drake could get more. Lyonette had plenty of stuff to sell. She could take just a sip…
Carivek was a downer. But it also made you smart. Tessa could drink it and find more in the city with it making her smart. Take enough, even in a Drake city like Liscor, to bring her back to that place only drug-classes found.
That’s how she’d done it in Tenbault. None of the [Fences] and [Drug Dealers] wanted to sell to her, obviously. She sometimes didn’t have enough gold…but she just bought Carivek, then figured out the rest. They found drugs if she raided their smuggling operations, enough to pay her off. Sometimes they tried to fight back or stop her, but they found out it was easier to just bribe her instead of die.
No. Nonono, she’d promised to try. Lyonette had come here. And this was The Wandering Inn.
Place of miracles. Only…
“There’s no more Faerie Flower drinks?”
Tessa stood there and stared at the little golden flowers in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She bent down, sniffed at them, even tasted one, but they weren’t the same.
“I’m sorry. They’re gone.”
Lyonette sat with the weary expression of someone who had seen far too much, and Tessa saw one of the things she’d put her hopes on vanish.
A miracle, even if it wasn’t perfect.
Gone. She heard Lyonette speaking in a determinedly too-bright voice.
“Tomorrow, Tessa, we’re going to see Healer Demerra in Pallass, first thing, alright? She’s agreed to help and refer you to other specialists she knows if need be. She’s already seeing a Miss Streihart Silverfang. You don’t know her, of course…”
[Healers]. Tessa knew all the [Healers] all the places…but she just nodded because Lyonette was trying.
It will do nothing. The little voice in her head whispered, and Tessa stared at the flowers before raising her head.
“Streihart?”
“Hm? Oh, yes, she’s Ishkr and Liska’s mother. You didn’t meet her, but we’re trying to help more than just you, Tessa. I only wish we could implement more of what Doctor Scala told us…”
“I know her.”
Lyonette blinked as the Gnoll [Head Server] turned from collecting a bag of gold in the garden. Tessa bookmarked the spot he was digging up. For drug money.
Nononono stop it—she forced herself to focus. Lyonette was speaking.
“—sure you’ve never met, Tessa—”
“She has a spot on her face. Blonde fur here, and a spot on her ear. And stomach. She says, ‘silverluck for us, yes’? Hazyflower.”
Lyonette blinked, and Ishkr turned. Tessa spoke.
“I see her around.”
“W-where? You’d never been to Liscor—”
The world only they knew. Floating in a cloud unmaking her, away from all her miseries, never that high, only as much as she could afford. Tessa’s head sank.
“She’s never getting out of there. She’s as sick as I am.”
“I…”
Lyonette didn’t know what to say, and Ishkr? Ishkr was just standing there. He strode for the doorway after a moment, and Tessa stared at his back as Lyonette jumped up.
“Tessa, you’ll have to explain that. Let me just—”
“Yeah. Sorry.”
She watched Lyonette run off, and Ser Dalimont gave Tessa a long look before he strode after the [Princess]. What Tessa wanted to say to Ishkr was:
You should stop trying. You should give up on her.
But she was too tired. And she knew he probably wouldn’t. Tessa couldn’t tell if that made it worse, but she knew she clung to that. To Lyonette’s desperate kindness.
They can’t save us. 
There’s no Faerie Flowers.
This was a mistake.
 
——
 
Was it back to normal? Or was her damage still there? Was the ‘ceiling’ something that came back or a living thing? Or did they make it?
She didn’t really care. But she could find out, oh yes. If she took too much, maybe she’d go to the other side again. Pure reality.
She…could still hear that voice, which was merely herself, really.
Do you want salvation?
“Yes.”
Tessa whispered to the Carivek as it swirled there. Her claws trembled as she raised the cup. The first question was easy. Everyone had the same answer. Thus, the second question arose.
Do you want to work for your salvation?
“I try. But it’s too hard. I really did try, once.”
But she didn’t have the will to do it again. Tessa opened her mouth and tilted her cup up, then paused.
Lyonette came all that way for me. It hurt to see the [Princess]’ earnest face, to imagine betraying it. But everything Tessa had said was true. [Restore Addictions]. All her promises.
Her missing tooth.
Always Have An Escape Plan. Tessa put the glass of Carivek down. Then, after a moment, poured it out the window. It ran onto the roof’s shingles, and she realized it didn’t leak here.
Well, aside from the huge hole in the common room from the Goblin King, but it had a barrier spell on it. She hadn’t helped with that. She’d missed it.
Tessa stood in front of the mirror, panting with the effort that had taken. It felt good. She felt better.
“Okay. Okay. That’s how I’ll do it.”
She smiled at her reflection, at her gap-toothed smile.
“Three days. Then I’ll kill myself if I don’t find anything.”
It was, after all, the simplest way to avoid troubling Lyonette. Tessa walked out of her rooms and wandered down to the common room. She sat as Rosencrantz came over with a drink and asked if she wanted to see anything on the scrying mirror. And Tessa watched some television, played a game of chess, and felt no joy at all.
 
——
 
Time passed. The sun went up, and it went down. For other people, it mattered greatly.
For Tessa…
Lyonette du Marquin felt something was wrong with Tessa. The Drake had been good after her big return. Of course, other things had happened like Garry, but Tessa hadn’t been forgotten.
She was good. She didn’t cause trouble, she tried things, she ate food and drank the tonics and even commented on how much they helped or didn’t. She was doing well.
Too well.
Something was off with her, and Lyonette caught Tessa before they went to bed.
“Um, Tessa? Do you have a moment?”
“Sure, Lyonette.”
They sat in her room. Lyonette on her bed, Tessa on the floor, cross-legged, and Lyonette peered at her.
“How are you doing? I know I’ve asked that so many times, but, um, truly. How are you?”
“I’m feeling decent, Lyonette.”
Tessa smiled at the [Princess], and it wasn’t a lie that registered on the little [Detect Truth] stone that Ushar had given the [Princess]. But nor was it truth.
“Decent as in well? Do you need anything?”
“Mm. No.”
“So you’re feeling good?”
“I’m feeling…okay. Average, I guess.”
The Drake fidgeted, and that was true, but for what value of it? Dragonspeaker Luciva had revealed the stones didn’t work anyways. Plus…Tessa was eying Lyonette’s hand. The [Princess] ruefully showed her the stone.
“I’m sorry. I just felt like there was something else going on, Tessa. If you are well, that’s good, right?”
The Drake hesitated. Tessa traced a claw on the floorboards.
“I…I do feel decent. No real pains; I haven’t had that many urges with the tonics. I’m fed. That’s what decent is, right?”
“Yes. Physically, I suppose.”
Lyonette hurt at night. She hurt when she got near some people. Little things were painful, and she tried to hide it from Mrsha and Nanette, but she knew they could see. Colfa was worried about her, but she had chosen this.
Yet it seemed to Lyonette her suffering was more welcome than Tessa’s ‘decent’. The Drake also seemed to realize this was obvious, and she squirmed before blurting out.
“—Is that how it feels for you when you’re…normal?”
“I…I suppose so? Physically, yes.”
“And you like living like that?”
“I don’t think about it when all’s well, Tessa. It sounds like it’s not as pleasant for you?”
Tessa rolled her shoulders.
“It’s not like being in pain. But I’m decent. No complaints to speak of. And there’s nothing else. It’s just empty.”
“Empty how?”
“Empty everything. I eat food, and it’s good until I swallow. I’m warm when I’m warm. I sit in a bath, and it’s nice until the water cools. Is that…is that it? Is this what normal’s like? I can’t remember. Nothing else feels like—”
She caught Lyonette’s eye, forced a smile.
“But it’s better than—than—”
Than being alive. The silent implication of her words made Lyonette go still.
“Tessa, can you tell me what it’s like to have the drugs? Is it…is it really that much better than anything else?”
The Drake froze up, then she stared past Lyonette.
“Better? Yeah, it’s the best thing ever. Nothing comes close. It’s living and joy, and you never want to quit, but it always ends. I’d trade breakfast forever for a single meal when I’m on Dreamleaf. It’s perfect, and everything else is…”
She stopped, and Lyonette’s heart began to beat with anxiety, but then Tessa looked at her and shook her head.
“…a lie. It’s not that great. It’s still better than normal. It is. But sometimes I feel like…I remember liking breakfast more. Or baths. Or anything. So maybe it’s not the best thing, but it makes everything else worse.”
“That sounds terrible, Tessa.”
“Yeah. I wish I’d never started. But now I know what it’s like—sorry. You’re trying, but that’s all it is. Empty. But don’t worry! I’ll be okay. Right as rain, soon.”
She flashed Lyonette what looked like a genuine smile. That was one of the things Lyonette had been warned about. She licked her lips.
“Tessa. You’re not planning on running away or doing anything drastic, are you? You’d tell me if you were.”
The Drake didn’t react, but Lyonette sensed her aura waver ever-so-slightly. Tessa glanced at Lyonette, face blandly smiling.
“Why would you think that, Lyonette?”
“Because I was told it was a concern. Oh, Tessa. Can’t I help you? If you’re thinking of—”
Tessa stood too fast, and Lyonette nearly fell out of bed. The Drake caught her and gently put her back in her seat.
“I’m…going to be fine, Lyonette. I appreciate everything you’ve done. Really. No one could ask for more. I don’t deserve more. I don’t want to put you to any inconvenience.”
Warnings and warnings. The [Princess] rasped.
“Tessa.”
The Drake was standing by the window, and Lyonette knew Ushar was outside and perhaps listening, but she was devoted to Lyonette’s safety. Not stopping…Tessa held up her claws.
“You did everything for me, Lyonette. I see it now. I see…”
Her voice trailed off.
“I hate losing fights. I never thought I’d ever lose one against anything. Or if I did, I’d die stabbing. But this isn’t like a fight. It’s a war. It’s a war, and you don’t win, just buy time. And even when you’re winning…is this it?”
She gazed at Lyonette and flexed her claws, and the [Princess] was trying to think. But all she could say was—
“Yes. Yes, Tessa. But also no. It’s not all there is.”
The Drake paused, peering at Lyonette.
“Can you explain?”
She was so desperate to know, and Lyonette tried to. She thought of her daughters.
“I don’t like having a pleasant, do-nothing day, Tessa. But I’m so grateful for them because…because of all I’ve been through. Me, Mrsha. If I can hold her in my lap and talk about silly things, I’m so happy.”
“So it’s because you know bad things are coming? Because you have her.”
A bitter smile on Tessa’s face, and Lyonette shook her head.
“No, Tessa. Not only that.”
“Okay. Explain it, please.”
Now Tessa was peering at the little truth stone, and Lyonette was having to tell the truth. Was Ushar picking up on this? Could she block Tessa? But the [Princess] had to be honest, so she searched for the answer, and at last, she had it.
“It’s not merely wanting to be with someone I love, Tessa. Truly, it’s not. These pleasant days—yes, I want them, but not just a ‘normal’ day. I want a day where Colfa and I sing in the mornings, eat one of her bloody breakfasts with something delightful where I don’t feel sick, but I eat something that pushes me and I challenge myself, and to shop with Nanette. I want a day where I can curl my toes up by the fire and read a book. Not normal. Normal is boring. I want pleasant. I want happy.”
“It sounds the same.”
Shriekblade muttered, and Lyonette shook her head firmly.
“I believe you could make it so many days were that pleasant, but they are not only normal, Tessa. Truly. Listen to me. I want a day when Mrsha comes back from school and she’s done something incredible. Or—or when Calescent makes a new food or there’s something interesting on television. I want to have a fun time! Even if it’s ‘ordinary’, that’s different.”
“Oh. So it has to be great.”
“Exactly! I can have plenty of baths that are purely—cleansing oneself. But when I have one that’s just right when I’m cold or it’s just so convivial? That’s worth it.”
Tessa scratched at her neck-spines, bemused.
“That’s funny. It sounds like you’re trying to have an amazing moment. Like…killing a big monster and levelling, only small things. I thought only crazy adventurers chased glory and excitement.”
“We all do, Tessa. Only, quiet moments as well as loud. Do you think you can find those here? If you keep trying?”
Lyonette smiled, desperately sitting on the edge of her bed. Tessa was still running her claw through her remaining neck spines.
“I don’t feel it anymore. Maybe. Maybe in time, but…I have another question.”
“Go on.”
Tessa glanced up and lowered her hands, facing Lyonette.
“How do you not hate being in your body or existing? Every second? How do you not regret being here and everything you’ve done?”
The [Princess] was silent too long. Her hesitation too revealing. Tessa grimaced.
“Yeah. I guess I messed that up, too. But…at least it wasn’t all my fault, right?”
She opened the window latch. And Lyonette spoke.
“Tessa, don’t. Please, please don’t.”
The Drake’s back was to Lyonette.
“The thing about having family or that fun stuff is…I don’t remember it. I don’t remember much of my life. I guess I ruined it. I really appreciate it, really. But I can see the future. I’ve done this before, Lyonette. I don’t want to ruin it for you so—”
She glanced back once, and Lyonette spoke.
“You have to know someone who made it, Tessa! You have to—to have met someone who quit! You did it before! What gave you the strength? How did they find a better life?”
Tessa turned and seemed to wrack her brains. Before she smiled and shrugged.
“You know. Some simply quit when they did something so bad they had to stop. Or someone helped them, and they just…did it. Sometimes it was after so many tries. Then they relapsed and I found them face-down next to me at the bottom. I met a guy who was doing everything I did. He quit, and I ran into him a few years later. He was looking healthy, and he had a life, someone who cared about him, all that.”
“And?”
Shriekblade chuckled like someone who got a joke no one else would until it was too late.
“I asked him what his secret was. He laughed and told me he wanted to go back to being down there with me. Every day, sometimes. He kept himself away because he didn’t want to let other people down, but he still dreamed of it. If I climb out of the well and I can fall back in a moment…I thought I deserved to at least see something different when I got out. But I don’t. That’s what sucks. I know I don’t deserve it, but—well.”
She opened the windows and stared into the long night.
“I’ve thought of this as a solution, a lot. It’s scary. But I’m really sick of doing this, like Merdon said. I’m feeling better, so—thank you.”
“Tessa, stop!”
Lyonette threw her aura, everything she had, but the Drake was gone before the first word ever left her mouth. The door flew open, and Dame Ushar rushed past her.
“Dalimont, she’s—”
Tessa was gone. Dalimont had been outside with Ishkr and all the staff he could find. He hadn’t even seen her move. A Named-rank adventurer. Lyonette begged Valeterisa for spells. She asked Mrsha to try to track Tessa, used the [World’s Eye Theatre].
They never found her.
 
——
 
The night passed into dawn, and Lyonette sat in her rooms, sleepless, waiting for someone to knock and tell her they’d found Tessa. With each passing moment, she was more and more convinced she knew how Tessa would be found.
She was trying not to cry, but when the sun rose, she felt her resolve break. She was sobbing, tears running down her cheeks, when a clawed hand reached down and brushed at the tears.
“See? I make people cry.”
Lyonette peered up, and Tessa was crouched against the ceiling, pressing her legs against a wall to keep herself in place.
“Were you—were you always—”
“No. I went into the Floodplains. I was gonna do it in the dungeon. Or the Bloodfields. That way you could think I ran off.”
Tessa landed on the ground. Her face was calm, and she didn’t appear…happier. Like she’d had an epiphany. But then why was she…?
Lyonette was almost afraid to ask, but she had to.
“Tessa. I thought you were going to hurt yourself.”
“I was going to kill myself. I promised and everything. And it was the one promise I was going to keep. Looks like I lie about everything.”
Almost miffed, Tessa scratched at her head, then sat there.
“Sorry. I know you were searching for me.”
“What—what stopped you?”
A monster? Something Lyonette had said? A little miracle unasked for? Tessa craned her neck back, almost embarrassed.
“Nothing like that. That’s how it happened other times. Other times, it didn’t stop me from trying. I bet I could do it properly this…well, it wasn’t any of that. I just…I didn’t hate myself as much this morning as I thought I was going to. So I couldn’t really do it. Now I’m embarrassed because it’s going to be a huge problem.”
That was it? Lyonette was trembling, and Tessa gave her a shamefaced smile, then turned away.
“I know it’s hard to get.”
“I’m glad. I’m…simply glad.”
The [Princess] was crying again, and Tessa hunched over.
“Sorry.”
In the silence, the door opened. Ushar recoiled, then ran to spread the news. Lyonette and Tessa sat, and the Drake confessed.
“Lyonette? I don’t think I can beat this thing. I don’t know if you can help me do that either. It’s not merely me wanting to. It’s…everything. Every moment I look in a mirror, I hate that face. I remember who I used to be. It’s Captain Groms laughing at me after I start crying in his bed. It’s every mistake I want to tear out. It’s who I am. I don’t see any way towards salvation. Not even with those flowers. Not even with miracles.”
She sat there, staring out at the morning light, and Lyonette whispered.
“Well…I do see it, Tessa! So trust me, okay? Trust me. I see a future for both of us. Please, just try another day for me.”
The Named-rank adventurer turned, surprised, and then for the first time since she’d left, she grinned at Lyonette.
“Liar. Your truth stone’s still here.”
She glanced at it, and it was flashing blue, but Tessa couldn’t remember which one that meant. But Lyonette’s chin rose.
“I’m a [Princess]. And we are in The Wandering Inn where miracles are half-off for lunch. We will make it happen, Tessa. This is a world of levels and classes. Anything can happen!”
The Drake stared at her and then nodded.
“…Yeah. I guess I can wait a while. Sorry.”
Lyonette threw her arms around Tessa, and then Ushar was back, and so was Nanette and a bunch of [Witches] who wanted to check Tessa and there was a fuss. It took the Drake a long, long time before they left her alone.
Even then, she rather suspected a Cave Goblin was staring at her from a crack in the door.
So much for not being a nuisance. Tessa really hoped she didn’t try to off herself again. It was still on the table, but right now…no.
If I can’t ever find that way out, what then? It was her greatest fear. The one thing she couldn’t out-fight. Not the fear of relapsing, but the fear of trying her hardest and then realizing it was all for naught, impossible.
Tessa stood in front of the mirror, and she looked bad, even if she had recovered a bit of weight. Still scarred. Still her. Still all broken pieces with nothing to offer Lyonette but a blade.
As always, she heard that voice. Captain Groms’ along with every other voice and moment that made her this. Only, her mind played a little trick on her.
For just one second, as she gazed into the mirror at that battered Drake’s face, she saw Lyonette, face alight with tears and determination. Shouting her apologies to Tessa. Bringing all the miracles she had to bear for this Drake who didn’t deserve it.
And then she heard Captain Groms’ voice.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, you brat.”
She saw Lyonette’s face blinking back at her and that fist rising. Tessa put her claws against the mirror. In her head, she caught that first punch.
She sat with Lyonette on that bed, and that moment…she fixed that moment in the little pile in her head that didn’t hurt. Tessa, Shriekblade, the Drake’s head rose, and her eyes gleamed just once.
“Not this time.”
She sighed. Well, that was a good enough reason for this month. She’d give herself a month to find another one. If she didn’t find it, then…maybe she’d go have a conversation before the offing herself thing.
It was such a pain. Tessa cast around, then climbed into her bed and rolled up in the Blanket of Warmth. She wiggled around, then sighed.
“Okay. It’s not worth living for. But it’s nice.”
It turned out that the only way to improve on this situation was if someone brought you a milkshake and you got to sip it while watching a scrying orb with dancing Fraerlings and Erin. After a while, Tessa slept.

10.60 YN (2026-03-28)

Then they knew they were going to make it, and it seemed like a great weight had lifted from every shoulder. Yet, and yet, the thought lingered in the back of every mind, and it was this:
Was that it? Wasn’t there more? It didn’t feel like it was over. 
It felt like they were still starving. It felt like the month of privation had not ended. It felt like there was more to come.
But perhaps…
Not for them.
 
——
 
The Silver Swords, who now encompassed Poke Duo, Vuliel Drae, and the members of the Consortium of Enterprise, did not look…healthy when Nailren found them. Yes, they weren’t starving thanks to the Terlands’ food and camp, but they had that worn-down feel to them he’d gotten used to in the New Lands. The Gnoll watched them from his vantage point as they slowly meandered across the pink earth, and he marked how they had suffered.
Ylawes was the best example. He was, according to Nailren’s memory, a standard to which most Gold-rankers aspired to be. An example of how good training and positioning could make a Gold-ranker too. Well-trained, not just self-taught. Equipped with high-quality armor from his family’s forges, high-level, brave, confident, and the product of good Izrilian breeding from noble classes.
Tall, handsome in that Human way with strong jaws, blond hair, and their pointy noses which made Nailren think of chips and dip—he’d always wondered how they avoided getting stuff on their noses—and muscular. Able to fight and perform to an exceeding standard.
—Thin, now. He’d lost perhaps as much as ten or twenty percent of his muscle mass, if Nailren was a judge.
He might not have had any Galas at his level. Muscle being gone means he truly was starving for a while. Nailren knew his own body didn’t have nearly as much visible muscle as Ylawes had used to boast; Gnoll fur hid a lot of it, but the truth was that he’d had fat as well as muscle.
Ylawes had been a Human with low body fat, which made him a splendid, deadly, nimble [Knight] despite his plate armor. In the wilds, he would have suffered without a ready meal to hand like he was used to.
And his armor. Nailren winced.
It was tarnished and battered. Visibly damaged because the enchantments had failed, and the [Knight] seemed to move at a permanent shuffle-stagger as he trudged along with the Terlands and other members of his team. The same with the rest of his party.
Falene Skystrall? Another casualty of the aesthetics of modern beauty. Thinness was all very well—if you weren’t in the New Lands. She was gaunt, leaning on her staff, and the absence of magic meant her features were gritty, missing magical makeup. Still beautiful as half-Elves went, but it showed the eye how much had been subtle illusion magics.
Dawil, well, his armor was rusted, his beard unkempt, but the Dwarf seemed sturdy enough. Hunger had lost him weight as well, so his armor rattled a bit. Vuliel Drae, ironically, had been Silver-rankers so their decline was less pronounced. They were dirty, smelled like the outdoors, and Nailren noticed how Insill’s neck-spines were dulled and chipped—a sign of malnutrition— that Anith’s fur was dull and matted, and Dasha’s beard was falling out, but little more.
“Goblin and Antinium are doing well. I can barely tell they’re hungry. Figures.”
He murmured and felt a tug on the back of his neck hair. The [Secret Chieftain] grunted and swatted at the air irritably.
“Stop that.”
The necklace he’d fashioned out of an old spoon tugged against his chest, and not for the first time, Nailren wondered how wise it was to have a dead woman’s ghost accompanying him. But it was new, she had been alone, and the world was changing, so he sighed and then whistled from his vantage point. He saw Ylawes’ head jerk and the Silver Swords react with alacrity.
Good. I’m not escorting fools, even if the wilds have done them dirty. Nailren stood, the fronds of strange, hard land-coral snapping a bit as he shed cover. His horse whinnied, nervous, but this was coral-ground. Safe. Safe except for Landsharks. He whistled again and howled so they could hear him, though that was embarrassing and showy, and he swore he saw Ylawes smile as the [Knight] raised his hand.
Despite himself, Nailren felt embarrassed for his suspicion and waved harder.
That goofy wolfpuppy of a Human. He was like a hunting dog. Not a trace of suspicion in him. Or perhaps, now, a hint. But as Nailren had thought when he took the request to rescue and escort the Silver Swords—
For all their faults, they were a good Gold-rank team. They were hard to hate.
 
——
 
Pekona nearly wept when the Gnoll she vaguely recognized as Captain Nailren caught them on their long march from the Terlands’ base back to Goisedall.
She didn’t, of course, because that was unseemly, but Dasha cried, and so did Insill.
“We’re gonna live, Pekona, we’re gonna live!”
The half-Dwarf warrior blubbered, and Pekona had to point out they’d been fine. The Terlands had food, and even if they’d been rationing it, they’d been fairly certain they were going the right way. Between Ylawes’ contact with Erin Solstice via her new Skill and Mrsha appearing sporadically to give them directions…
No, the sight of another friendly individual from the past did make Pekona tear up, especially because he came so—so—confidently.
“Captain Byres, you are a sight for sore eyes, yes? I nearly didn’t recognize you. You’re lucky that Miss Nanette gave me your exact coordinates or I’d have never found you. I apologize for the delay; my group is scouting the area, and I was the first to see you. I’ll signal the others I’ve found you, and we’ll be on our way.”
Nailren rode towards them on horseback, and the mostly on-foot adventurers, Terlands, and colonists from the failed Consortium of Enterprise gazed at the Gnoll like he was some figment of their imagination.
Mostly because…he just looked okay. Not starved, not dispirited or beaten down by the rain and lack of food. Nailren’s fur was far from glossy, and he had that cast to him like he’d been roughing it of late, but he smiled.
A smile was a lot of work and calories. Ylawes’ own lips twitched as he held out a hand.
“Captain Nailren, we heard you might be coming, but—thank you for your efforts. Are you joining us? Do you, ah, do you know where we are in relation to the border to Izril?”
Nailren nodded easily and jerked his thumb ahead.
“About two day’s ride from the border where magic dies. I’d call it four days’ march if you can keep the pace to Goisedall, which is the closest Drake city to here. Are you hungry? I have some provisions, and I can help hunt, but I was told that wasn’t an immediate concern.”
Ylawes awkwardly gestured to a group of nobles who’d halted, surrounded by their remaining Golems whose hearts glittered dully.
“We’re fairly set, at least compared to before—ah, this is Lord Comigen of House Terland. We’ve been hired to escort his group to safety.”
“Adventurer.”
Lord Comigen, wearing a disheveled vest bestrewn with little icons, stones, pieces of lumber, the components of a Golem, nodded awkwardly at Nailren. The Gnoll nodded back.
“Greetings, Lord Terland. I am Silver-rank Captain Nailren, though I am not acting as an adventurer in the New Lands. I would be pleased to assist your party in leaving, purely as a matter of friendship to the Silver Swords.”
“Ah, oh, thank you—a Silver-rank adventurer?”
The Terlands’ reactions were interesting and telling. They wanted to dismiss Nailren the moment they knew his rank was a ‘mere’ Silver-ranker, but the Gnoll was clearly at home here, and he knew the area. In the same way, Anith murmured to his teammates.
“That’s very clever.”
“How, Anith?”
Insill didn’t get most northern things, so Anith explained.
“He’s offering to help as a friend, not as an adventurer. The Terlands can’t treat him like hired help. See how they’re having to adjust?”
Indeed, the Terlands—from Saftya, Leerne, to the others—began to introduce themselves to Nailren, who treated them with faint deference, but a distinctly pragmatic attitude. Pekona saw Lady Safta bristle, then began listening to his description of the landscape.
“I’m glad I caught you here, Ylawes, all. This is coral-ground. Fairly inhospitable for foraging unless you know where to look, but the damn Landsharks hunt here quite often, as do the Sealeeches. How are you doing with provisions, truly? I could set a trap or just bait them off, but I’d like us to march south for the rest of the day to make camp—it’ll take us out of the coral lands and into plain yellowgrass territory.”
The [Lady] hesitated, then blurted out.
“Excuse me, adventurer, I do not know these terms. Coral lands? Yellowgrass territory…?”
He favored her with a smile.
“Those are the terms my team and others have used, Lady. Coral lands refer to areas that look like raised seabed. The tough coral, there?”
He nodded to ‘bushes’ made of the faintly pink coral stuff, which was like wood, but far too soft. It could burn, but it was mostly water and hard plant fiber. Bushwacking through it, in Pekona’s experience, was almost all but untenable.
Aside from that, the coral lands had lots of stone and sand and, as Nailren had pointed out, a distinct lack of vegetation or animal-life. A shame, too, because Rasktooth and several others like Insill had been waiting for a lovely animal to pop out of cover so they could have a meal.
Food. Pekona wasn’t obsessed with it nonstop like she had been when they’d been starving, but her stomach rumbled as Nailren jerked his thumb southwards.
“The yellowgrass territory is the largest and most abundant biome I’ve found. It allows for more wildlife. If we’re lucky, we’ll find game, but certainly fewer Landsharks. Something about the soil; they find it harder to burrow there.”
“Really? I had no idea. We were up north with our first contract. The foothills.”
Ylawes murmured, and Nailren’s brows rose sharply.
“The foothills? I’ve been interested in exploring that way, but it seemed rather inhospitable. Good mining mayhap, but unless you had ample provisions or a way to mitigate the salted land issue, it seemed hard going.”
“It was. We starved. I…you know about the ground?”
Nailren nodded.
“Nanette let me know. That’s how I came here. Let’s keep moving if we may. Follow me. Ylawes, how are you holding up?”
Like that, they were saved. If not by a high-level adventurer, then by what Pekona could only describe as someone who knew what they were doing.
Captain Ylawes was a good leader, brave, and did the right thing, but he had felt like he was floundering to Pekona. Nailren was confident, and everyone’s pace seemed to pick up as he led them, chatting calmly.
Some of the tension in her that she would never see her home again eased. They were going to make it.
It still didn’t feel real. Their torment didn’t feel real.
 
——
 
There were adventures, and then there was this. Starvation was not a foe most adventurers faced. Running out of food while on a dungeon-dive or long campaign? Sure, but not this.
It felt like, well, a new world, and Pekona was as rattled by her experiences as everyone else. The Drake fortress with the Mithril haul and ancient, battle-ready Golems, surviving on fishing down the river as they left the [Merchants] to die—
All of it was a dream that the Drathian woman felt was far more surreal than any other adventure she’d had since leaving her home. In a way, the most grounding thing was seeing the Terlands interact warily with Nailren and him calmly and consistently assert his rank over them. Because she understood that.
Anith was only too happy to analyze the situation, but Pekona didn’t need it. She said as much when he commented on it.
“It’s all so very hierarchical here compared to Baleros. It reminds me of Dullahan pecking-order. Nailren’s a Gnoll from the south of Izril, and the Terlands are Five Families of the north, but both are pulling rank on each other. Baleros doesn’t work like that. I can read it, but not understand it.”
“It’s the same everywhere, Anith. Home is like that.”
Everyone turned to eye her, and Pekona flushed and would have crossed her arms—but her right arm had been severed by the Drake Revenant at the Village of the Dead. She was crippled, one-armed, forced to use her non-dominant hand.
No longer able to fight on the same level as before. Never again. She had sacrificed it to duel a legend, but she sometimes wondered when Vuliel Drae would replace her. She’d have to go back to her homeland of Drath in disgrace and kneel before the [Emperor] and speak her shame.
—Her team was kind, but Pekona knew she was now second-rate, and she had been only Silver-rank before this. So a second-rate second-rate swordswoman.
It was probably why she got along better with Poke Duo than most. The members of the Consortium of Enterprise didn’t talk often with Rasktooth and Infinitypear, because they were Goblin and Antinium, but Pekona was friendly enough with them. They always had something to eat and were chatty. Young.
Children. That was how she thought of them. So she tried to be kind and not bow to Rasktooth constantly.
Because in truth…they outranked her too.
Pekona’s self esteem had never been particularly high, but it had risen after leaving home when no one questioned her [Sword Dancer] class and found her ‘interesting’. They thought her class was unique and powerful instead of laughable. However, it had taken another nose-dive after the Face-Eater Moth incident and the Village of the Dead.
Just more proof that someone without cultivation truly is worse than even a First-Class warrior on guard duty in the archipelago. Pekona had no cultivated inner energy. She’d been a tertiary village-girl who’d learned the way of the sword at a local dojo, a sword-school, but she’d never had any training to cultivate her soul, which was Drath’s true way of advancement.
Without it, her mastery of the sword was akin to any other foreigner who picked up a blade. One could achieve great mastery with it, but it was not advantaged. She could, by virtue of her levels, slash a young tree trunk in half, leap six feet vertically, and do two backflips before hitting the ground.
A Level 20 [Cultivator] would laugh at her and put her flat on her back by simple virtue of their bodies. With a sword? A [Blade of the Refined Soul] of equal level could shatter her wakizashi with an infused blade—even if hers still had an enchantment—best her in sword dances, and endure her cuts as they slashed her in twain.
Cultivation, in Drath, was authority. There were traditional ranks and hierarchies, which was why she understood how the Terlands and Nailren acted; it was a subtle interplay at times and as blunt as Dawil’s hammer at others. But the final mark of authority was always refinement of the soul.
From the immortal fox-kin to the [Emperor]’s courts to the outsiders like the Demons, which no one was allowed to speak of—and who acted like ordinary foreigners—the weight of their cultivation was all. Those with talent were inevitably given access to greater pills, techniques of cultivation, and objects to refine their souls until they could clap their hands and shatter the air, endure unenchanted arrows without flinching.
It was why she had left; a girl with only a modicum of talent for the blade mattered less in Drath. And it was why she didn’t know how to treat Rasktooth at all. Because he…
He was a prodigy.
One need only look at his poise of form as he sat upon Infinitypear’s shoulders and see the utter contemplation, which exceeded his current level of refinement, or consider the facts to acknowledge this was so.
An untrained, unpracticed neophyte who had seen Pekona play at cultivation once or twice breaking through to the Inner Spirit Realm mastery on his own? Genius. Were he not a Goblin, he would have been taken to one of the main cities and enrolled in a school of one of the Murim Families’ main branches for such talent.
That he was a Goblin and barely a few years old…did it make him more or less? Often, great talents with the ability or self-possession to ascend their souls into cultivation’s many levels of refinement—it was a never-ending process in which higher ‘levels’ of ascension resulted in exponential power at increasing difficulty—were found too late.
A girl or boy found at the age of 16 with a prodigy’s talent was considered old, perhaps wasted because they had not been taught earlier. Even if one reached the Zenith Heaven’s Gate soul level—akin to a Level 40 [Warrior]—one might only live 200 years if they were not a half-Elf, and they had unique difficulties cultivating their souls due to their longevity.
But Rasktooth was a few years old. How long might Goblins live? If it was like Humans, then he would have a head-start on even the [Emperor]’s own children. Hence, Pekona not knowing how to react to him.
He should have been a young, arrogant noble lord in Drath, throwing his weight and the might of his family around, too powerful to gainsay in any way—and thus hateable. Instead, he was a Cave Goblin and paralyzed from the waist down, a truer brother to Infinitypear than most Pekona had ever met of blood. Like Ylawes, not what she expected of him.
“‘Ey. Hey, Pekona. You, uh, know Nailren? What he like? We is new adventurers. He some big-boss Hob-Chieftain guy?”
He leaned over Infinitypear’s back as they began walking, and Pekona had to translate his odd speech. Then she ducked her head reflexively.
“No, young m—Rasktooth. He is not a big…Chieftain guy. Though he may be a Chieftain? He was a Silver-rank Captain when we were exploring Liscor’s dungeon. The same rank as Captain Anith.”
She indicated the Jackal Beastkin [Mage] whom she followed, and Rasktooth eyed Anith and Nailren, who was chatting with the Terlands and Ylawes.
“Ya?”
“Yes, Young Master Rasktooth.”
This time, Infinitypear distinctly turned his body to stare at Pekona, and she turned red. The Worker spoke.
“You call Rasktooth ‘Young Master’ sometimes, Pekona. What does that mean?”
“I, um—it—it is a term of respect. Because of his class.”
“Oh. But I am an [Adventurer]! Do I not get a cool name like that?”
Rasktooth patted Infinitypear on the head.
“You can be Super Master Infinitypear, Brother.”
“Ooh, I like that. Very well, Young Master Rasktooth.”
They giggled at that like children. It made her happy and embarrassed because Rasktooth was deserving of the title. And Infinitypear was…one? And he had an Adamantium spear from Spearmaster Lulv?
Ahead of her. She was an ant, a real ant compared to an Antinium. Rasktooth blinked at Pekona.
“You looking all down, Pekona. Why? Because you not a [Cultivator] thing?”
For a Cave Goblin who’d never seen the world, sometimes, he was annoyingly sharp. Embarrassed, Pekona glanced around but no one was watching, so she snapped back.
“I don’t want to be! It’s just…you have talent. I don’t. Alright?”
He and Infinitypear appeared hurt, and she felt instantly bad, but the Cave Goblin’s mouth closed after a second.
“I have talent? Me? I not talented, Pekona. You have sword and can twirl like something beautiful. No Cave Goblin has any talent. Pebblesnatch is talented, and look at her. She lost the cooking contest big-time. She talented for a Goblin. So talented for poo.”
Pekona didn’t know what he was referring to, but she was objecting.
“No, you are talented.”
“Eh, impossible. You is wrong, so don’t feel bad.”
The Cave Goblin folded his arms and grinned at Pekona until Infinitypear poked him in the side and he yelped.
“Hey, Brother, stop that!”
“That’s Super Master Infinitypear to you, Young Master Rasktooth. And you are talented. So is Pekona, and Captain Ylawes, and…everyone here. Everyone is most excellent.”
The Worker jabbed Rasktooth again when the Cave Goblin tried to demure, and Pekona smiled. She looked at Rasktooth.
“Whether you like it or not, you are talented, Rasktooth, more than me. Drath would love you.”
He peered at her.
“But not you? They stupid, then.”
“Shh!”
Scandalized, she covered his mouth reflexively, casting around.
“Drath is a great nation. The [Emperor] is infallible and protects the world—”
“If he not think you’re talented, he stupid.”
“Rasktooth! You can’t say that!”
The Cave Goblin grinned up at her.
“I really do have potential?”
“Yes. Truly. I don’t understand why your energy is…rotten. It sounds like a product of the dungeon, but even rotten energy of that magnitude, so early, is a huge step. It doesn’t matter how you get the power, often. Sometimes, you can mess up, but you could do so much, Rasktooth.”
Maybe even fix your spine. But she didn’t want to make the Cave Goblin promises. Still, so much was possible with cultivation. You could regain your youth, repair lost limbs…well, only the supreme masters could do that. Rasktooth inspected her face, then seemed to have an idea. He grinned and held her hand with his small one.
“Then okay, I level and become Super Young Master. But you teach me, Pekona.”
“Me?”
“Sure! I not know how anything works! Then, when I become Super Ultra Youngest Master—then I tell everyone, ‘Pekona taught me. She super genius.’ And the Emperor-guy will have to thank you and stuff.”
She laughed at him. Then hugged him and Infinitypear one-armed, impulsively.
“You silly Goblin. Fine. You’re like a little brother, then.”
“Can I be a little brother?”
Infinitypear begged, and Pekona nodded.
“You can both be. And maybe one day we’ll all be wise as Captain Nailren.”
They beamed at her and nodded. Rasktooth grinned.
“We both learn from Pekona, Super Master Infinitypear! Eh, ah, Pekona. One question. Something just weird to me. Because Nailren seem older than Anith. Years and how he act. Right? Why they both Silver-rankers?”
She floundered, then gazed at Nailren’s back and had to duck her head again.
“I don’t know. He does seem…authoritative, now.”
In this place, far from civilization, Nailren was like a Named-rank adventurer compared to even Ylawes. It wasn’t just his bearing nor demeanor. He didn’t pull a string of roasted pheasants out of the bushes, but he just…did things.
 
——
 
Not easily, but with a sense that he knew how it was done and could make it happen. For instance, that night, Nailren had the exhausted group camp and then organized a hunt when he saw how they were rationing the Terlands’ stocks.
It was barley grain in soup with slivers of some fish they had left, a bit of butter for decadent thickening, dried scallions, a handful of flour, and on the side, some rock-hard bread. The Terlands had been stocked well enough, but the march had been long, and they’d been rationing, not knowing how much further they had left.
It was way more than the Silver Swords had been living on before; utterly terrible for the Terlands. Both groups made do, but Nailren just sniffed the air.
“I can’t promise a meal, but could I have any [Archers] join me for an hour? It may be I can find something to augment our stores. In the meantime…here.”
He produced a full, salted slab of venison from a Corusdeer, and Ylawes was so speechless he just pointed. That was how Insill, Infinitypear, Rasktooth, and two more [Archers] from Farmer Petia’s group followed Nailren into the night.
—He came back empty-handed after forty minutes, sighing, but everyone had devoured the venison by greedily dunking it into their soup and eating the dry, but delicious meat. Insill looked ready to cry as he saw Pekona sucking on a sliver of venison, and Dasha offered him a morsel with shaking fingers, but Nailren just grunted.
“No game about, sadly. I’ll try the second option. Can I get someone good at digging to join me?”
This time, it was Dawil, Infinitypear—again—and Ylawes himself. They set out, and not twenty minutes later, Nailren was back with armfuls of clams.
Pekona, who’d been thinking she was stuffed by this richness, sat up, and her stomach rumbled as Nailren began to toast the clams. Everyone fell over themselves, begging like children for a bite. He even looked rueful as he explained to Ylawes.
“I saw the field a ways back, but I’m reluctant to depopulate more such. There are these clam-fields in the coral zones, but many have been destroyed by newcomers. Still, this is needed, and we did not take much. Hrr. A bit more salt and pepper, I think, and…”
Freshwater clams. They tasted much like seawater ones, if a bit more…sweet? But dead gods, sucking one out of the shell after it had been baked on the fire with a hint of seasoning and Pekona was crying. Nailren had to confiscate the shells and half the clams to make a clam chowder—even the shells he boiled for the taste, and everyone had a second meal.
“Adventurer, ah, Nailren, you seem to be able to survive these dreadful lands quite well.”
He grinned at Lady Leerne as she remarked, licking her fingers and trying to wipe them on her handkerchief afterwards like she was still a lady.
“If I seem so, it is only because of experience, Lady Leerne. At first, my team and I survived on provisions as we learned, but it is a bit of experience with living in the wilds, a lot of luck, and having time to learn. I think anyone would do as well as we if they were not starving and desperate. Lacking food, it shrinks one’s mind, yes?”
“Oh, c-certainly. I am glad you take this perspective, sir. I, ah, I don’t suppose your team, the, uh…”
“We are disbanded, officially, but we were the Pride of Kelia. Of Tribe Fletchsing.”
“Yes, the Pride of Kelia. I do believe I’ve heard of it! Your team wouldn’t happen to be interested in a contract with House Terland, would they?”
Nailren grinned and had to refuse the [Lady], claiming his teammates had quit when reaching the New Lands, but Pekona saw his eyes twinkle and knew he was lying. About what, she could not tell, but he played the noblewoman like a [Beggar] marketing mere mudroot as Thousand-Year Ginseng to credulous nobles. Only, he actually had ginseng in each paw. She decided Captain Nailren was her hero, and she would follow him to the ends of the earth—so long as he kept her fed, and the same went for everyone else.
 
——
 
Ylawes felt like a fool for two whole days in Nailren’s company. He should be the Gold-ranker and Ylawes a Bronze-rank idiot who’d nearly gotten everyone killed for his foolish pride and inexperience.
He said as much to Nailren on the second day, and the Gnoll nearly laughed himself out of his saddle. He had a well-fed horse and he rode it, often to scout ahead and tell them he didn’t like this particular area of land, to correct their courses, just bag a kill like a yellow hare and bring it back to be skinned and eaten on the spot.
“Captain Byres, you tell jokes well. Much like the Ekhtouch.”
“I don’t get the reference, Captain Nailren.”
“Oh, just that they’re a haughty, self-important tribe and their ‘jokes’ are always upon themselves, and they never notice it. You are a fine Gold-rank adventurer; it’s just that here, my Skills and experience shine. When we encounter monsters and you’re fed, I’ll hide behind you and let you be the heroes. I remember how Facestealer died.”
He shot a knowing glance at Vuliel Drae and Poke Duo, as if he hadn’t also been there and fighting with everyone else.  Ylawes muttered.
“That was all Rasktooth. I…just got hit a bit and listened to advice. Here, I’m useless, and you’ve saved us.”
“Hrr. No. You’d have made it, Captain Ylawes, but I’ll take the compliment. The [Shaman]’s truth is that the New Lands is much like a trap for all but those ready for it, and your team did well enough. Trust me on this, and don’t beat yourself too hard. I, myself, had a number of unpleasant experiences here. If I seem confident, it’s because I knew what I was taking on with rescuing you and came prepared. If you took a Bronze-rank mission slaying sewer rats, how much would you brag to the villagers, even if they couldn’t do it?”
That made sense, and Ylawes did relax, but he was still humbled by all that had happened and said as much.
“I feel like I’ve aged ten years, Nailren. And lost and gained so much. All our magic…but the other adventurers pulled their weight, and I learned some…hard lessons. I shall be glad to reach Goisedall. There will be Rhir’s hells to pay, but you will have my gratitude, and House Byres’, forever.”
Nailren eyed Ylawes and sombered a bit as Pekona, striding ahead in the advance guard in case of Landsharks or bandits, glanced at them. Nailren tapped his nose and shot a glance at the pony that Dawil was walking next to that carried a bundle of their personal gear…and the Mithril equipment Ylawes’ team had taken from the keep without telling the Terlands.
“I think you’ll land well enough after this fall, Captain Ylawes, and I am being paid handsomely by The Wandering Inn for my services. Fear not, though I might tell you to get a bag of holding as soon as we reach civilization. Though my nose is a bit refined, even among my kind.”
He’d noticed the Mithril and not said a word? Ylawes flushed and ducked his head, grateful again that Nailren was a man of honor. He’d not paid attention to the Gnoll way back when in Liscor, but now…
He wondered if House Byres offered commendations. His father might know, but some kind of permanent title or some such? Dead gods, he’d [Knight] Nailren in a heartbeat if the Gnoll wanted it.
Maybe it was just relief after starving, but right now, Ylawes meant it. And so, apparently, did Pekona, because she spoke.
“Captain Nailren, may I ask how you suffered here? I am Pekona of Vuliel Drae; we have met and adventured. I…had a few questions of you. Firstly, that my charms vibrate when you are near. As if you are possessed by ill effects.”
She touched the handmade charm she’d constructed from her new Skills. Ylawes frowned, but Nailren grew suddenly interested—and a bit wary.
“Fascinating. You’re Drathian, are you not, Pekona? I do have a rather interesting…I wouldn’t say malady, yes? More a problem that became a kind of new state of being, neither affliction nor boon, yet.”
He chuckled, and his fur rippled despite a lack of wind. Ylawes eyed him, noticing that oddity.
“I’m afraid I don’t follow, Nailren. Are you sick or something…?”
Nailren sighed, a twinkle in his eyes.
“Ekhtouch indeed. I kid, I kid, Ylawes. I think you are the person to talk to. After all, you ran into the same issue I did. I did fairly well, I think, but I did have one nasty week of suffering—and that was when I ran into the ghosts issue. I was told you solved your problems far better than I did, and more quickly. I wished to confer.”
Ylawes started, and his eyes opened wide.
“The ghosts! Right! I almost forgot—”
It hadn’t been that bad for him, but the look everyone else in earshot gave him reminded Ylawes that he’d had the protection of the Graveblade, which had ultimately solved the problem. Nailren listened to Ylawes’ account and sighed mightily.
“I heard from Nanette at the time how your issue was solved. I wish I had been with you—but then again, it would have precluded me from learning more valuable information, yes? Let me tell you what happened to me…”
His story of the tents and being haunted by ever-more-aggressive spirits had Ylawes’ skin crawling. When Nailren mentioned bruises and blood by the end of it, Ylawes burst out.
“Ghasts!”
Pekona jumped. Ylawes was pale-faced.
“There are stories of such monsters in House Byres’ lore. It’s one of the things we carried silver to defend against! I remember being so terrified of them I’d hide in bed with a silver chalice at nights.”
He blushed as she smiled and Nailren grinned, but the Gnoll rubbed at his stomach.
“Having run into them and being helpless, I can’t blame the child-you, and I rather admire House Byres remembering how to combat such foes, Ylawes. I might well have died…I was truly desperate, but I learned some methods to combat them. Salt circles, for one.”
He paused as the fur on his head moved unnaturally, then turned his head and added.
“We’ve settled that, friend. No need to be embarrassed.”
He had a ghost on him. When Ylawes realized that, he nearly drew his sword, but Nailren seemed actually quite happy. However, Pekona was just as unnerved.
“An unbound spirit is a dangerous thing, Captain! It can grow to be a great good—or great evil.”
“Hmm. Two cultures with stories of ghosts, and I know Gnolls have them too. You two know your histories well. I’d be delighted to share information, especially about what you know or what works.”
Pekona exchanged a worried glance with Ylawes before showing Nailren all her talismans. Several of the simple paper charms with ink drawn on them seemed ordinary, non-magical, but they vibrated alarmingly suddenly, and Nailren grinned.
“Oho.”
“[Safety Talisman]. It—it detects something is here.”
“Can you defeat her? She’s not very strong anymore. Spoony? I call her ‘Spoony’ because I don’t know her name—can you test Pekona’s wards? I don’t think you want to get near Ylawes’ Gravesword, and be careful.”
Gingerly, both ghost and [Charm Maiden] tested each other, and Pekona found that her [Minor Warding Talisman] could actually keep Spoony away. Though, after eight tries, the warding talisman’s ink ran off, and a triumphant ghost lifted Pekona’s hair.
“Fascinating. I may ask to copy those talismans, though perhaps I need a class or something to activate them?”
Nailren had described his various methods and insights on the ghosts to Ylawes, Dawil, and the other adventurers who’d come by to observe this unnatural phenomenon. The Terlands and colonists were so unnerved that they were keeping wide of Nailren, and the nobles of the north were clearly trying to pretend his invisible friend didn’t exist.
Pekona felt at the charm around her neck as she shuddered, still eying the air around Nailren.
“So it is not ill, Captain Nailren…?”
He shrugged, calm.
“If it is ill, it is not wrong, and I think that is the difference, Pekona. I shall inquire with a [Shaman] once we reach civilization, but do not fret. Now, since I assume there are no ghosts in Drath, how are charms normally used? Like the power of [Witches], an entire area of charm-making might have been left to rot…until now.”
She brightened up.
“It has! My aunt, she makes them, but they are keepsakes for most. Some have a bit of power, but compared to cultivation…”
“Ah, of course. I know a tiny bit of Drathian culture, but please, correct me.”
Thereupon Nailren and Pekona began to talk about charms and Drath, which Ylawes was completely lost by. However, he listened with such fascination to Pekona’s tales of home that she looked quite pleased. Nailren remarked on it, too, with a grin.
“You listen like a child hearing Tales of Adventure and Woe for the first time, Captain Byres. Again, this is a compliment.”
Ylawes blushed.
“I’ve always been fascinated by things I don’t know, and Drath sounds so extraordinary, Nailren. I wanted to visit the Great Plains; the Silver Swords just never went past Liscor before. It’s all so…commendably interesting. I wish I’d known any of this—charms or Gnollish knowledge. It would have helped us in the New Lands tremendously, and I’m only sorry I’m not more well-read. Falene and Dawil get around as well, and neither of them knew more than I.”
Nailren tilted his head, listening to Ylawes, and it felt like he was inspecting the man, but when Ylawes was done talking, the Gnoll chuckled once more, and a genuine smile crossed his face.
“I’ve heard that, and I take it as a compliment. From you, Captain Ylawes? I do believe you. It is rare to find someone who loves what is strange or foreign to them as more than a curio.”
What did that mean? However, Pekona glanced at Ylawes and smiled, nodding.
“I’m glad you value my charms, Captain. Many would not.”
He didn’t know what to say to that. Who wouldn’t? Ylawes shrugged awkwardly.
“I had no notion such things were so…common.”
This time, Pekona and Nailren smiled at him in a different way, knowing and maybe a bit resigned. Nailren inspected the one Pekona had lent him.
“They are not conventional magics, Captain Ylawes. [Mages] cannot make them, you see? Only [Shamans] and the classes of Drath.”
“Yes, but they’re quite useful, or so they seem.”
“They are!”
“So why haven’t I heard of them more?”
Ylawes saw Pekona and Nailren exchange a glance, and the Gnoll smiled, but with a hint of reserve. Had Ylawes missed that in Nailren’s expressions before? Or did he just see it now?
“Ah, Captain Ylawes. This may be so, but they’re [Shaman] and non-[Mage], non-[Enchanter] creations. Not something Wistram or the nobles of Izril would know about.”
“And?”
“And that is why you do not know about it, nor most Gold-rankers outside of Gnollish ones, I would imagine.”
It was such a gentle delivery that Ylawes waited for more, and then Nailren and Pekona resumed their discussion.
It took him until nightfall to realize that it had been a rebuke of kinds, or a reminder.
Somewhat predictably, he didn’t shut up about it until they reached Goisedall.
 
——
 
“I just don’t understand, Dawil. Let’s say they’re not as—as permanent as other [Enchanter]-made objects. A few months or years is still fantastic performance! And we just don’t know about [Shamanic] charms or [Witch] magic because it’s not conventional? Is this right, Falene?”
Dawil and Falene were no longer starving. They were being led by Nailren back to Goisedall, away from the Consortium of Enterprise’s madness, with the remainder of the colonists and Merchant Anlam. Safe. Secure, better fed.
Still in hell, somehow. Dawil exchanged a wretched glance with Falene, begging her to say something, but she was trying not to engage.
Two days.
Forty-eight hours. Ylawes’ conversations kept leading back to this point, like a stubborn bull running in circles, and Dawil exhaled.
“Lad, it’s just how things are. Izril’s a bit hard-headed about some things. Frankly, not many people know how useful such magic is.”
“But you’d have thought that someone would observe and point it out, especially in Gold-rank circles!”
Ylawes was mildly outraged, and Dawil nudged Falene until she tried.
“Ylawes…it’s the matter of perception. Until the Meeting of Tribes, the, ah, magical standing of Gnolls—or [Witches]—was nonexistent. And Drath is far away from any other nation.”
“So?”
“So, lad…people just don’t think it’s that valuable.”
“But it is! We can see it!”
“Yes, but people don’t think it’s that useful, so it’s not something you or most folk know about.”
Ylawes squinted at Dawil.
“Dawil, it feels like you’re generalizing. I think most people are quite willing to see the value in other things, and I’d hesitate to assume anyone would be that close-minded.”
At this, point Dawil Ironbreaker and Falene Skystrall met each other’s gazes in rare united mindset. And it was this:
Our noble, privileged, innocent Human captain is so beautifully naïve it hurts. Because he meant it. He saw Nailren’s aptitudes and Pekona and her knowhow and he took it for granted that anyone would see the same and respect Nailren unconditionally.
It was why they loved him. It was why they despaired of him. It was the only reason the two had followed him despite his foibles and flaws all this time. Because like a Unicorn, he was pure.
…Actually, having met a Unicorn, Dawil was pretty certain that Ylawes cleared Unicorns too. The average maidenly virgin who was eligible for sacrifice would have called him an unbelievable romantic child.
Even now, there was something beautiful about that, but he’d been scarred by his adventures of late. And Falene? Ah, well, Falene marched ahead to smile at Ylawes.
“Believe it or not, Ylawes, sometimes people are slightly close minded. Even my fellow [Mages] of Wistram. I’d be delighted to talk about it in Goisedall with you. Say over some proper food and rest? My treat.”
Dawil sighed as Ylawes glanced ahead, and his stomach rumbled. But the Dwarf didn’t stop old Pointy Ears. She’d been shooting her shot at Ylawes for years, and like a blind [Emperor], he’d missed the brightest comet she’d shot past his face.
But dead gods, this had been a hard adventure. Dawil said nothing, and Ylawes nodded after a moment.
“I think I’d like that, Falene. We all deserve a break and, I dare say, some relaxation. It’s not more than a few hours’ march, Nailren says. But I insist on paying—I brought us into this mess, and we’ve enough coin for that. Though I doubt I’ll be able to send as much back to House Byres as my father wants. I hope all is well.”
There he went, thinking of House Byres and the gold he ‘owed’ Yitton, as if he hadn’t earned it. Dawil shook his head, but he was too tired to argue.
Goisedall. More blue tufts of those weird seeds were flying across the air, and Nailren was pointing ahead as Dawil’s legs trembled, and he nearly wept to see the city in sight when he saw the old, familiar lands of Izril stretching below them.
—And pilgrims entering the New Lands, summiting the divide where the New Lands rose higher. Tiny ants from afar. Dawil exhaled and stood taller.
They were back.
Almost back. But somehow…nothing would be the same.
 
——
 
The people entering the New Lands through the main ‘road’ of overturned muck and debris appeared excited, ready for fame and fortune, and they were at odds with those who returned.
Not just the Terlands; Nailren had not been back to Izril ‘proper’ until now, but his team had told him about it, and it was a sight.
For every thirty people entering the New Lands, one was returning. Those who returned seemed as beat-upon as Ylawes’ team. They did not mince words. In fact, most fell upon newcomers.
“Food! D’ya have food!?”
A thin man was begging, and a few startled caravans offered him a few rations he tore into before bellowing at the others. He was malnourished; his ribs were showing, and he had a single sword at his waist. No horse, no company.
“The New Lands are a damn trap! Turn back! Turn back, all of you! If the monsters don’t get you, the lack of food and magic will! I say it for your own good—I came with fifty-strong, and we were at each other’s throats in three weeks! I came back alone, and I don’t know if any of my friends live. Nor d’ I have the heart to find them.”
Tears leaked from his eyes, and the new colonists gazed at him, shocked, but determined.
“What did you see, fellow? Come on and we’ll feed you for intelligence. What’s settled?”
“What’s settled? What’s settled? There’s naught built and only dead camps and despair! Turn back!”
The man was remonstrating with the others, his beard dishevelled, but they had come too far. Nailren saw a few caravans hesitate, but the clever ones asked for information; everyone continued.
“What threats did you see? Here, where are the most important sights? We heard there were ruins. What can you tell us?”
A rich woman was standing up in her cart, and it was Ylawes Byres who bellowed.
“There’s an anti-magic effect on all the New Lands! If you have anything of magic, even artifacts, they’ll be dead within the week! Bags of holding, Runes of Preservation, everything! Heed the warnings and hold!”
That stopped everyone in earshot, and Nailren admired how the man just…said it. Heads turned and people called out.
“Here, what’s this madman talking of? It can’t be all—”
“We’re the Silver Swords, a Gold-rank team! There’s a mana-drain on all the New Lands, and the ground’s salted! Nothing can grow but maybe Yellats! It’s a trap!”
Falene and Dawil took up Ylawes’ call as they met the procession heading into the New Lands, and Nailren leaned on his saddlehorn to watch. For he suspected, in his cynical way, how things would go.
He was not disappointed.
 
——
 
It was not that they disbelieved Ylawes, especially after a few groups confirmed his identity. They heard out his comments about the magic-drain, the salted earth with dismay.
But they kept going.
Even groups laden with magical gear. He urged them all to turn back, but out of sixty plus caravans, only one did, and that one to just sell off what they had in Goisedall before continuing.
It was a [Merchant] that reminded him of the Consortium of Enterprise who spoke to him, almost cheerily.
“I understand the risks, Captain, but we’ve come this far. Over a month of travel, it’s been, from House El’s lands, and you tell me to turn back? I can’t do that. This is where I swore to make my mark or die, and your news is welcome; we might find a way to trade off our magic or see how we can preserve it, but we must continue.”
“Merchant Candi, we’ve starved a month and seen—hardship the likes of which my team has seldom encountered. Will you not at least think a few days?”
Ylawes gestured at his team, and she looked him up and down before the woman adjusted her hat, grim.
“I don’t doubt even a Gold-rank team suffered, Captain, and I shudder to imagine what became of your company if this is all that’s left. But I…I have to believe there’s treasure beyond dreaming in the New Lands. If not in actual form, then opportunity, cities to be founded, a landed nobility for me and others. If not, then what’s there to dream of in this age?”
She laughed, and he stood there. Trying to explain how starvation felt. But Ylawes realized they were committed. Just like the consortium had been.
“Lad, let’s get to Goisedall. We’re wearing our throats raw and starving, still. Petia, Homle, their people’re in need of rest, and there’s affairs to be settled. A meal and comfort will do us all good.”
Dawil was the one who finally tugged Ylawes away from trying to turn back groups pushing past him. Ylawes stumbled away, lightheaded and weak.
“Were we so foolish, Dawil? Were we…?”
He couldn’t bear to see them going forth to what he thought must be their deaths. The Dwarf’s face was gentle, but his arm so very strong.
“Probably, lad. You think you’d have stopped at the beginning of all this? Rest, and we’ll help if we can. Perhaps your warning’ll make them turn back sooner, but we have to go.”
Ylawes had never felt more like a child, weak, naïve, beaten, than when he entered Goisedall. His group, over two hundred strong, was no triumphant return.
It was footsore Terlands, slow Golems low on mana, servants, farmers, miners, all who were too thin and who had abandoned all they had carried to make it this far. The adventurers, most well-fed and who had the most gear of all, still seemed like they’d come off the hardest of adventures, and Ylawes was keenly aware of how much money they’d forfeited by breaking their contract. And how much they’d lost in magic.
At first, Goisedall was just as harsh.
 
——
 
“No rooms for let! If you want a room, double someone’s fee to evict or keep moving! No food, no standing room!”
A Drake woman was screaming at the first inn through the city gates. The Watch was on the walls, but no one was manning the gates; there was no point.
The city was packed. Goisedall had not been like this the last time the Silver Swords had been here. Then, they’d been a former harbor-city trying to reinvent themselves, catching the blue seed-tufts in nets.
Now…they were overrun. By colonists, people coming and returning from the New Lands. There was nowhere to stay.
Each inn was packed to the gills. Traffic was a snarl of wagons and caravaners screaming at each other; there were camps of people outside the city, preparing to enter the New Lands, and prices—
Ylawes stared at a sign as they passed.
 
Inn’s Room — 22 sp. per night, no board.
Sleeping space, Common Floor — 8 sp. per night, no board.
 
“A gold piece per room? Eight silver to sleep on, what, the floor of the inn?”
Madness! Even in First Landing, a gold coin per room had you at the higher-end rooms short of noble prices! But Dawil just grunted.
“Looks like we’d be fighting for even floor space, lad. Look.”
He pointed as a Drake handed the shouting [Barmaid] sixteen silver coins. She counted them out, then went in to evict someone—and Ylawes’ blood ran cold.
We have nearly two hundred people here. We couldn’t afford floor space even if we weren’t impoverished….
“Outside the city, then. We won’t die to camp, even if—”
“Looks like there’s a fee for that, Captain.”
Anith interrupted, and Ylawes turned, incredulously, to see another poster tacked up.
 
All vagrants travelling through Goisedall lands are to pay a fee for camping in the area of the city. Fees to be administered by Watch patrols or paid in the City Hall. Double Triple Quadruple if not paid in advance!
 
Madness. Ylawes saw Drake soldiers riding through the streets to break up fights, administer fines, haul people away, or just—-
“We—we met a Captain before this. From the city. Captain…Captain…could we prevail on him?
Ylawes was ashamed not to remember the Drake’s name, but Dawil, Falene, all had forgotten. It took ages before someone recalled the Drake.
[Patrol Leader] Dulc. Ylawes went to the City Hall to ask about him.
 
——
 
[Hostess] Gliva hated everyone who came to Goisedall. She hated the New Lands. She hated the fimie-seeds which landed everywhere and were nuisances.
She hated the anti-magic fields and salted earth beyond their city.
She hated her job, and she took particular, bitter pleasure in the fact that she was Level 33.
She’d been Level 25 late last year. A young, up-and-coming [Head Waitress] at the Seafarer’s Catch, a respectable if small inn on the edge of Izril’s shores.
Today, she was an entire capstone higher, and stress was her best friend. She stood in City Hall, because that was where everyone ‘important’ came, from [Merchants] to the leaders of the doomed expeditioners.
It was no longer the important place where only the Councilmembers and staff got to work. Right now, it was a flea market of people shouting, haggling, sleeping—chaos. The stone dirty—-everything in Goisedall was dirty—havoc everywhere.
She was haggling for her inn. Old lady Merwic, she was doing her best, but she’d given Gliva the purse strings for all the inn’s provisions. And Gliva was bargaining.
“I need all your flour. All your flour, I said!”
She was screaming at a [Merchant] who was arguing with her.
“I can sell you fifteen bags—but no more! I have promised more to friends in the New Lands! The Consortium of Enterprise, have you heard of—”
She slapped down gold on the counter. Gold pieces, more than she could dream of earning a year ago. Then, she would have been tempted to run off with it—she placed four hundred gold pieces down, and the man’s eyes bulged.
“This is for your flour.”
“A-all of it?”
“Yes, to Seafearer’s Catch on the double!”
The [Merchant] was Human, from the north, and was canny with a team of sixteen [Porters], [Guards], and a wagon with a Skill: [Cargo of Vast Holding].
He’d not make it six days into the New Lands. But he had made promises. But Gliva had gold, and he licked his lips.
“Th-this is a handsome sum, but for my flour, which I’ve bought from no less than the Unseen Empire of Riverfarm, I should demand more!”
“How much?”
She gave him a flat gaze, and he wavered.
“Well, given the prices of things and chaos—”
“How much? I’m in a hurry! Name it and be done or I’ll find someone else!”
A [Knight] was pushing through the chaos past the [Merchant], a bewildered expression on his face. Newcomer? No—he seemed too thin.
Doomed fool, then. He was calling out as a Dwarf and half-Elf followed him, and the [Merchant] spoke, getting Gliva’s attention. He was going to rip her off.
[Markup: 130% Value]! [Enticing Offer]! [Mitigate Haggling]! He drew himself up, spoke haughtily.
“For this much grain, I fear I’d have to double, no, make it a thousand gold pieces for the lot of—”
“Done! [Deal’s Sealed]! Get it to my inn within ten minutes!”
She began dumping gold onto the table and almost relished the way he stood there, frozen. A fee beyond anything he could charge, even with his Skills.
He was being ripped off. By her. He might get double that price if he had played his cards right, but there was no time. Not in Goisedall. If he wasn’t mugged or hit by someone of her level—she nearly laughed in his face.
“Get me the grain and on the double, damn you! And get more! If you want to be paid, bring it all here! We’ll be dead in a week from all these mouths if you don’t.”
She had never, really, thought of hospitality as a life-or-death situation, but Goisedall was under siege. The [Merchant] began to move, hesitantly scooping the gold up, staring at her, and she wondered what she looked like.
Eyes red-rimmed from lack of sleep. Exhausted from working constantly—but with a new blouse, a bag of holding on her hip she’d never have afforded before.
Richer, having doubled her savings in the last month from working. Back aching from renting out her house to newcomers, charging them gold for it while she slept in her closet.
Rich. I’m Ancestors-damned rich. If I survive this year, I could retire in any city I want. So long as we don’t all die of the prices. Is it this mad in the rest of Izril? Is there enough food to feed so many?
Never, in her entire life, had she seen so many people as passed through Goisedall in a day. She charged people prices she wouldn’t dare charge a Wall Lord of Salazsar and spat at them if they so much as argued.
Madness had engulfed Goisedall, but also riches. People coming to the New Lands had gold to spend, and those who returned paid out of desperation and had such stories…
It’s a trap. It’s all a damned trap, and they’re dying, but I have to make money. We’ll starve if I don’t get this grain.
Gliva was already thinking of how to trade it with other inns for what they had. To make food, even damn bread, to feed the many mouths. Level—she’d hit Level 40 within the year, she knew it.
Hospitality.
HOSPITALITY.
Her heart hurt. Because part of her remembered what her class meant. Part of her was still the [Barmaid] who’d offer any beggar a bit of old bread and some water and a place to sit, and now she was the hardass Drake who kicked anyone out who so much as lingered over their cups without gold to spend.
She bled for this. This city engulfed by gold and desperation. So she rested her arms on the table. Dizzy.
Levelling.
And heard the [Knight] speak.
“Patrol Leader Dulc? I’m Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords. I was wondering if—”
A Drake with faded, dead scales from lack of scraping around his jaws, exhausted, hand resting on his sword’s hilt, whirled as he strode for the Council’s rooms and then blinked.
“Captain…wait, I remember you! Dead gods, you survived? You look like death, man!”
“I fear we did live, Patrol Leader.”
“It’s Captain of Territory now. New class and all. How many made it? Did you lose everything? Damn, your armor.”
Gliva listened as the Human man called Ylawes Byres, some bigshot Gold-ranker, explained what had happened. Same story. Dulc heard the man out, shaking his head.
“I’ve had so many groups come back nearly dead or starved, even Named-rankers…well, few enough of those. Your team’s not hard up on hunger, are they? They’ve got gold?”
“Some, and if we can get to the Merchant’s Guild—”
“They’re open, and they might be able to help. But do you have gold on hand? Good, good. So your team won’t be thieving or raiding others. Add them to the list.”
Dulc nodded to a subordinate who wrote, and Ylawes recoiled.
“Captain! I’d never—”
The Drake hesitated, and his expression, worn as hard as Gliva’s, softened just a moment.
“It’s what desperate people do. Look, are you asking for a handout?”
“N-no. Well, I just wanted to ask about the prices on even camping—”
The dismayed Ylawes was acting like there were such things as dignity, subtlety. Dulc and Gliva could have laughed, but the Drake was kind.
“We’ll waive the fee. Put ‘Ylawes’ down and just sign my name—done. I can’t get you better prices on food, Captain. If you had any to sell, I’d advise you to do that, but just buy what you can if you’ve the gold. You’re a Gold-rank team; the Merchant’s Guild might be able to lend you what you need. As for space, camp if you’ve the tents. If you have gold aplenty, the inns will do. Where’s someone with an inn? All the [Innkeepers] show up here, so you can negotiate with them if you wait—Gliva! There! Gliva, give them rooms at decent prices if they pay!”
He roared at Gliva and the [Hostess] flinched, then shouted back.
“We’re not a charity, Dulc!”
“They were a good team back when they came! No trouble! Just—ancestors. I’m glad you lived, Captain. If I see you in the city, let’s catch up. But I have to ride. I’m sorry. Make way! Make way or I’ll fine you, damn it all!”
He was shoving forwards, and Gliva saw the [Knight]’s face fall. He turned to her, helpless, and seemed to understand what was happening.
“Your rooms, Miss…Gliva. They wouldn’t be—?”
“We’ve a full group moving out today, Captain, but it’ll be four gold a room—that’s as many people as you like sleeping there. How many people are your party?”
‘Two hundred strong!”
“Ah, well, you might do with all our rooms and the common room—and we’ve got [Guards]—but it’d be nigh on five hundred gold to rent it all, plus meals. If you’re hard up for food, I suggest just heading onwards. Prices are half what they are here, and it gets closer to normal a few cities onwards, or so I hear.”
His face was so stricken she felt bad for him, but—five hundred gold. It was doable for a Gold-rank team, even one in dire straits. Beyond ludicrous two weeks ago.
As nice as she could be, now. Ylawes Byres appeared sick as he turned.
“I—I don’t think we can do that. I’ll prevail on Anlam, and the Terlands may rent a room, but it’ll be food for our company. Can we buy enough for two hundred…?”
“I’d budget a gold piece per person per meal.”
She spoke and saw the color drain from his face and wondered how hard-set he was. Part of Gliva wanted to give this man a break, but she could not. She could not—this was the break. And it was then that someone spoke from behind Gliva.
“Excuse me. I do believe our gold is quite good, if this Merchant’s Guild is active. Until Captain Ylawes is on his feet, I would like to pay for his rooms and provisions, Miss Gliva, is it? May we make arrangements?”
The Drake turned, ready to snap at this gentle, even kindly voice which had no place here. But when she saw the glowing [Princess] standing there with a [Knight] and little witch at her back, even she stopped.
For there were still wonders in even Goisedall. Lyonette du Marquin met Ylawes’ eyes as his knees buckled. She smiled, and her eyes swept the room with dismay. But then she stepped forwards.
“I do believe you are a high-level server, Miss Gliva. Can I trust you to give my friends proper service?”
“Wh—what are you—?”
The woman was transparent. Gliva saw Lyonette smile at her.
“I am Lyonette, the owner of The Wandering Inn in Liscor at this moment.“
The Wandering…? Gliva had heard her [Innkeeper] talking about it. She froze, and Lyonette spoke.
“Can I trust you to take care of my dear friends?”
“Y-yes. If they can pay. I mean, we have levels. Almost everyone’s over Level 30…”
“Then do so, Gliva. I shall have the funds paid to your [Innkeeper] as soon as she presents herself at the Merchant’s Guild. Captain Ylawes…oh, you’re so thin.”
“Miss Lyonette?”
He stood there, swaying, and Gliva gazed at Lyonette as she strode over and tried to hold his cheeks in her hands. Her eyes were shining, and she spoke.
“I’m so sorry we couldn’t help. I’m so glad Mrsha found you. We’ll do everything we can. Rest. Please. Mrsha told me what a hero you were.”
“I didn’t do anything. I just broke my word, and Erin saved me.”
He murmured, sinking downwards, just one more man so weary he could not even stand in this city. But Lyonette du Marquin only whispered.
“Nonsense. Don’t you dare say that. Not you. Not you, Ylawes Byres. We must have men like you. We must have [Knights] like you for even Normen to look up to. Or how shall we believe in goodness anymore?”
Then…Hostess Gliva saw a [Knight] beckoning to her, introducing himself as Ser Dalimont, and who wished to discuss the particulars of the Silver Swords’ stay, which would not have price tags on their hospitality.
And for a moment…the [Knight] could relax. For the [Princess] treated him like a hero.
Or at least, she tried to.
 
——
 
For once, even The Wandering Inn’s unlimited gold ran into an obstacle it could not surmount, and that was the state of Goisedall.
Gliva, the [Hostess] of the Seafarer’s Catch, was not an unkind woman. But she was distinctly stressed and, in that Drake-like manner, unwilling to mince words.
Lyonette appearing out of nowhere via a high-level Skill and the reputation of The Wandering Inn were a unique experience, which was why the woman gave Ylawes’ team and the inn the time of day. However, she didn’t rush to throw open her inn’s doors. Rather, she interrupted Ser Dalimont with a raised eyebrow as Lyonette and Ylawes were talking.
“—so glad you made it! House Terland’s in your company, aren’t they, Ylawes?”
“Yes, does my father know I’m alive? We have one survivor of the [Merchants], but we’ll have to inform—and the Adventurer’s Guilds.”
Nanette burst into the conversation, excited.
“We’ll help! We have gold, Ylawes! You just rest and eat. Dead gods, you’re so thin. Did Nailren reach you? We were worried about this thing called ‘refeeding’—let me get Mrsha. She knows more about it than I, actually.”
Then Lyonette paused, and her eyes flickered.
“Ah, Mrsha. Ylawes, I am so sorry, but this is a very pressing time at the inn. We’ll have gold sent. Dalimont? Send Yelroan to—”
“He’s out, Lyonette. With Honored Deskie?”
“Damn, then you or Ushar…? No? Get Peggy—shit. Ishkr’s needed. Who else?”
Something was going on in the inn, and her smile gave way to a visibly stressed concern as she and Dalimont conferred. Ylawes hesitated.
“If something is up, don’t worry about us, Lyonette—some gold would be welcome for purchasing food and lodging, but we’re fine.”
“Nonsense! Colfa will make sure you have all you need once you’re settled at this inn. No, wait, she’s busy…Nailren is with you?”
The [Hostess] marched back into the conversation, hands on her hips.
“About that. I’d love to rent out our inn to your party, Sir Knight, Princess Whomever, but this gold you’re promising. Got any on hand? It’s up front or nothing.”
“What?”
Lyonette and Ylawes turned, and he felt the slightest ting to the back of his head. Like something striking his helmet in combat. Instinct made him glance around and see how much gold was passing through the city hall. And how many people were being turned away because of…
“Well, not on hand. This is a Skill, Miss Gliva, but the Merchant’s Guild will take our credit. We have several accounts—”
“The Guild? No good. If you can get gold out of them, I’ll take that, but they’re out of almost everything. They’ll get resupplies of gold, but they won’t tell anyone when for fear of the wagons being attacked. If you don’t have gold in claw, I can’t take your party.”
“What? I assure you, Miss, we have credit—”
“So does half the city. With respect, once they’re gone we can’t collect nor can the Guild pay us. We’ve had three groups of people pay on credit and leave without any way for us to get the money. The Merchant’s Guild says they’ll get it to us ‘in time’—well, we need it now because no one trusts what their ledgers say.”
“This is ridiculous. The Merchant’s Guild can pay, surely! And even if the gold itself is deferred, they have enough funds to cover everyone in Goisedall.”
Lyonette protested, and Gilva sighed, long and loud.
“That’s what they said, and that’s what we tried, Miss. And it works. Merchants accept credit even if they get a bit annoying about it. We can accept credit if we confirm it with the Merchant’s Guild first, though the lines take hours because they have to confirm each account, and plenty of people lie about having credit—”
“Ah, I see—”
“—But then there’s someone who’s renting their home out for guests and needs to run down to the market. And you know, most Drakes in Goisedall don’t have a Merchant’s Guild account with credit, or one at all! And those Drakes have no coins, so that’s where they start demanding it from everyone. If someone needs coins, everyone needs coins, and the ‘credit’ of the Merchant’s Guild is damn well useless.”
Lyonette and Ylawes saw the dilemma, and Gliva stopped ranting and drew in breath.
“Sorry. It’s been a lot of that, and I’m tired of explaining. No one in Goisedall accepts anything but hard coins, Miss. We’ll take artifacts if you’ve got any…”
But if you came from the New Lands, fat chance. She gave Ylawes a second glance, and Lyonette spluttered.
“This is…Dalimont! To Invrisil’s Merchant Guild at once with Yelroan. If anyone can get ahold of their [Guildmaster], he can. We’ll have that gold, Miss Gliva.”
“Lyonette, do we have time for this?”
He bent over, and her face twisted up again. She glanced at Nanette, and Ylawes felt his heart sinking. Gliva glanced from face to face and put her claws on her hips.
“I can hold your booking for an hour. Any more and I’ll take in clients.”
“I’ll have it! I’ll send a Courier if I must from…where’s the nearest city? Dalimont, someone has to represent us!”
Gliva raised her voice.
“If it’s Reefhome, Klawsha, or any of the other cities north or south of us on the former coastline, you’ll have the same issues. They’re all slammed, though Goisedall is the worst of it. Comes from being the westernmost city. Lucky us.”
“So you charge gold for everything, Miss?”
Ylawes was alarmed and feeling at his bag, formerly of holding. His team didn’t have much on hand—he knew Dawil and Falene had accounts in good standing with the Merchant’s Guild, but he’d sent much of what was in his to his father.
Actually, he felt the chink of gold coins in his belt pouch and shifted slightly. Wait, he had a number of gold coins. Not a ‘lot’ for a Gold-ranker, but maybe as many as sixty? Plenty for paying for normal, day-to-day affairs. Thirty?
He didn’t want to count them here, but Lyonette was as intent as Ylawes.
“I had no idea it was this bad here. Ylawes, meet me at the Merchant’s Guild, please! Having your team fed and rested a night is a priority. If you need to move inland…we’ll have someone do it. Someone—”
She was casting around, but the inn was busy, and she couldn’t even spare this time. Nanette was tugging on her arm, and Ylawes called out.
“We can survive a night outside if we have to camp, Lyonette. Rasktooth and Infinitypear are with Nailren outside, anyways.”
Her eyes flicked to him as Gliva listened, her tired face becoming interested. Lyonette spun and pointed at him.
“I will not leave a friend in need, Ylawes Byres! I have to go, but I intend to give you some respite! Miss Gliva, I may appear in front of you again. Or someone shall! And your innkeeper’s name is…”
“Merwic. Merwic Fishtedder, but you aren’t going to just—”
Lyonette strode through someone and vanished, and Gliva exhaled, then eyed Ylawes.
“Gold-rankers, are you? I’m Gliva, again. When’d you pass into the New Lands?”
“About…three weeks ago? I don’t know, I can’t tell. What day is it?”
She told him, and he rubbed at his face.
“Longer, then. Dead gods, it felt like months. We ran into trouble.”
“So I hear. At least you made it back. I’ll, uh, show you to my inn and hope you can pay. No offense, but the amount of gold’s high even for adventurers. Oh, but before you do that, check if you’re on the List of Expeditioners.”
“The what?”
Then he saw a portent of things to come and was reminded that he truly was back among civilization. For on the central pillar of City Hall, near where people gathered, asked questions, were lists.
Lists of people who had gone before Ylawes’ team, had gone out of communication range. Hundreds, already, and family, friends who stood and asked everyone that was leaving to keep an eye out. Or—asked those who returned if they’d seen them.
Ylawes saw an image of a Drake smiling at him, plastered onto the stone. A Mage’s Picture, and a man stood below it. A Drake that shouted at Ylawes the moment the [Knight] came over. Gliva avoided looking at the Drake.
“Excuse me! You’re an adventurer? Did you come back from the New Lands, sir? Sir? Did you see a Drake group from Goisedall? The First Venturers, they’d call themselves? My son, here. He went with his fiancée. Thorssin. He had an enchanted spear, and he’d be…”
Ylawes shook his head as the Drake limped forwards.
“I’m sorry, we didn’t see any—”
The overturned caravan that had been the victim of an attack and been forced to leave someone behind. He hesitated, and the old Drake stared at his face.
“Did you find anything?”
“Nothing identif—no, sir. I’m sorry, I…are these all names of people missing in the New Lands?”
The Drake’s face fell, but he swung an arm out and cleared some space so he could show Ylawes the terrible sight.
“It’s everyone. When we realized [Messages] wouldn’t work—there’s everyone from Gold-rankers to nobles on here. You might be on here, sir.”
“I don’t know if my family would…”
Wait, they’d all been out of contact for such a long time. Longer than Ylawes would be away on any adventure. Perhaps his father was concerned, and his mother—Ylawes began studying the maze of names and faces, but if he was on here, there was no organization.
“They write into the Mage’s Guild to put it up. What’s your team?”
“The Silver Swords. Gold-rankers. And Vuliel Drae…excuse me, I should get to my team. We just arrived, and we don’t have any information, though one of our number, Nailren, might.”
Ylawes wanted to get away and tell Dawil and Falene what was going on, but to his and Gliva’s surprise, the old Drake cried out.
“Wait! Silver Swords? Consortium of Enterprise? You are on here!”
Incredulously, Ylawes turned.
“How did you find—?”
The old Drake man gave him a smile as he rubbed at one leg.
“[Anxious Searcher]. A class at my age…I can [Locate Information], at least. There. Insill Shasstel. And—Merchant Jobbi and Merchant Raeta’s friends have put in requests to hear about their wellbeing. As for Insill, it seems like his family’s asked for anyone to bring them word if he’s alive.”
There were brief entries for both, and he tore them off the wall and handed them to Ylawes. The [Knight]’s heart sank. Not for Insill, though if his family was so concerned they had best know right away. But Jobbi and Raeta.
His last image of them had been both cursing him as he left them, Salamander sitting on the ground with the rest of the doomed…
Whatever the old Drake saw on his face, he hesitated.
“I, ah, how bad is it out there, Captain?”
His claws were trembling as Ylawes took the piece of paper, and Ylawes made himself meet the man’s eyes. Faded green-blue scales, very colorful, which would have fit a coastline. A scar down one leg. Cotton undercoat and a fisherman’s jerkin.
“It’s difficult due to the lack of magic, sir. What’s your name?”
“Coldet, a [Fisherman]—well, I used to be. I just rent out my home most days. There. That’s two fewer names here.”
He smiled, and Ylawes saw someone else step forwards to add a long list to the pillar. The [Knight] nodded.
“I’ll ask my friend if he’s heard about your son. Thorssin, wasn’t it? A unique name.”
“It’s got a bit of Terandrian in it. I thought it’d sound good. Thank you.”
Ylawes stepped back, and then he was moving for the doors, because he had to leave. Gliva fell into step behind him and commented, once.
“You shouldn’t have asked his son’s name. He’s been here for three months.”
“Three months?”
Ylawes twisted, and she shook her head.
“They left almost the moment the New Lands rose. First to get there, even before Named-rankers.”
She had a twist to her lips that said there was no doubt in her mind what had happened. Ylawes bit his lip, then shook his head.
“There’s no harm in asking. I’m a [Knight].”
“One of those Terandrian classes? Does suffering come as part of the job, or taking someone else’s woes on?”
She was a bit—pointy. Ylawes got annoyed despite himself, because he was hungry, footsore, and had been hoping for respite here. He wondered if this was how Falene and Dawil felt about each other. He turned his back on her, replying abruptly.
“Yes, as a matter of fact, it does. Isn’t it the same for [Waitresses] and [Hostesses]?”
He sensed her halt and turned his head, instantly guilty.
“Forgive me, that was unworthy of me to say. I’m tired, and that was unkind—”
“No, no, that was a good shot. Fair enough.”
She gave him an almost-respectful glance as his cheeks turned red, and he walked on hurriedly, then recalled she was showing him where his inn was. And then, well…
Goisedall became a scramble of sorts.
 
——
 
Funny how being in safety didn’t mean relaxation. On the contrary, the moment Ylawes got back to the Silver Swords and the rest of the expedition who’d been trying to find inns along the thronged main street, it became a rush.
“They only accept hard gold?”
Lord Comigen was incredulous. He turned to his people, and several felt at their belt pouches, then the man whirled back to Ylawes.
“We are in Goisedall, and I suppose our contract is over, Adventurer Byres. Rest assured, we will settle your account.”
Ylawes recalled some small amount of gold for escorting the Terlands, but the dungeon’s haul had meant he was also entitled to a share of the profits—in gold, not items. The [Knight] thought of his hidden Mithril items, and he glanced at their pair of horses, but Pekona was standing next to the bundle, and Comigen was insistent.
“We’ll have it done at the Merchant’s Guild now. They’ll have gold, whatever the locals claim. However, if lodgings are, ah, unavailable…”
Then you’re on your own. He eyed the large group with Homle’s [Miners] and Petia’s [Farmers], and Ylawes exhaled.
“We’ll accompany you to the Merchant’s Guild, Lord Comigen, but yes indeed. A pleasure to—to survive.”
He held out a hand, and the [Lord] shook it, a touch bemused.
“It’s been a rather humbling experience for us all. Lord Restraud…ah, dead gods. I must write to Great Aunt Ulva. So much to do. Terlands, with me!”
He shouted, and Ylawes looked to Petia and Homle.
“You should keep with us too, Homle, Petia. If we can’t find lodging or food, then our camp with Nailren is paid for. Er, the fee’s waived.”
“That’s much appreciated, Sir Knight.”
Homle was scrunching up a worn hat in his hands, clearly nervous, and Ylawes wondered if there was any coin amongst the colonists. No food, no prospects, and the Consortium…they’d broken their contracts.
They were alive. Focus on that. Dawil stepped closer.
“Lad, did you say Lyonette found you?”
Ylawes nodded.
“She did! She’s very busy with something at the inn—but she wants to help. She told us to meet at the Merchant’s Guild, but if they can’t give us gold we’re in trouble. Let’s go there now. And—and I think the Mage’s Guild might be in order too. Insill, your family was searching for you.”
“What? My family? What? Is something wrong?”
Insill jumped, and the [Rogue] was alarmed until Ylawes explained about the List of Expeditioners. Anith shook his head as he glanced right and left, head on a swivel.
“What a change to come across this city. I’ve seen the like in Baleros when a war erupts nearby. Food, basic amenities become luxuries, and [Mercenaries] can flood even a big city—everyone, hands on your belt pouches! Don’t let our valuables out of sight!”
Ylawes saw Vuliel Drae snap to attention, and he himself checked his belt pouch again. He nodded at Anith and strode forwards. Their first stop, the Merchant’s Guild, was besieged by people at the doors. They might not have even gotten in but for Lyonette, walking through people to speak to the besieged staff—and the Terlands.
“In the name of House Terland. Move aside.”
The Golems, who had been so slow and beleaguered in the New Lands, if reassuring, were a lot faster and even able to talk now they were out of the mana drain. Perhaps they’d been ‘recharged’ by the [Golem Artificers] too; one Golem put out a hand and forced a crowd of people back.
“Adventurers, with me!”
Lord Comigen went striding past the other people with his entourage, and Ylawes heard jeers and cries of outrage. Wincing, the [Knight] hesitated, but Falene was after Comigen like a shot.
“This is no time to wait, Ylawes! Come on, Dawil!”
“We can’t get everyone in there. You go, lad. And take Petia and Anith! The rest of you, let’s stand back.”
Dawil pointed, and Ylawes ran after Falene. He ended up with Petia and Anith, shoving into the doors, and Pekona as well. They had to literally push through the press, and two [Bouncers] nearly knocked Petia flat; Pekona had to shove them back, one-armed.
“No riffraff in the—”
“She’s with me! We’re with the Terlands!”
Ylawes checked another man as big as he was and felt himself sliding back. He was so weak—but the huge [Bouncer] recoiled when he saw Ylawes’ armor, and one of the nobles, Lady Safta, turned and snapped.
“Desist, man! All of them are with us! Who is in charge here?”
It was scarcely less packed in here than outside. However, Golems and the Terlands’ ranks got two [Merchants] hurrying out from behind their counters. And, to Ylawes’ astonished relief, there was even food!
Cups of water and biscuits. The Terlands almost scoffed at the fare until stomachs rumbled, and they snatched the food. The single tray from the Merchant’s Guild kitchens had only six biscuits on it when it reached Ylawes’ group. He, Anith, Pekona, Petia, and Falene all took one, and Ylawes hesitated at the last biscuit.
“Dawil and everyone are out there. I, ah—”
The young apprentice [Merchant] took one glance at Ylawes and shoved the tray out. Whatever she saw on the gaunt [Knight], he took the biscuit and then stared at both. Slowly, he tucked them into his belt pouch rather than eat them.
His stomach rumbled, and Lord Comigen, who’d scarfed his biscuit down, eyed Ylawes.
“Now there’s a man with more tact than I…Guildmaster, I am Lord Comigen of House Terland. I require funds from our account and, ah, suitable lodging for my party. I believe Adventurer Byres would like to access his account, and a [Mage] for communication with our House, discreetly, would not go amiss. Though we can cast the spell now we’re out of the New Lands, can’t we?”
It just occurred to him, and he twisted around to look at Sir Martz before slapping his forehead. Comigen turned back to the Drake.
“Nevertheless.”
The Guildmaster was a beset-looking Drake, who bowed to Comigen and then began to apologize.
“Lord Terland, I regret that our guild is overtaxed! We do not have much gold in our coffers—it is all being spread into Goisedall. So much in all hands…but it does not come back to the Guild, by and large. Our members deposit some, but—we may be able to offer you a small amount. As for references to stay…”
“You don’t have lodgings? We are of the Five Families!”
Lord Comigen was astounded, and the [Guildmaster] offered him a weak smile.
“Goisedall is packed, sir. Let me inquire and see what we can do. For House Terland? And, ah, we have received a request to assist the Silver Swords by Lady Lyonette of The Wandering Inn. A rather stringent request.”
He gave Ylawes a hunted gaze, and Lord Comigen jumped as he recognized the name.
“Did you say The Wandering…”
Oh, Lyonette must not have been able to appear herself. Ylawes felt a pang, but the [Guildmaster] seemed rather impressed by her name. So did Lord Comigen, but for different reasons.
Comigen might not have known Lyonette or The Wandering Inn as well as Ylawes, but the moment he heard Lyonette and the inn mentioned, his eyes narrowed, then a very fake smile appeared on his face. He motioned to Ylawes.
“Captain Byres, a quick word?”
“Go on, Ylawes. I’ll try to get some gold out of my account.”
Falene murmured, and Ylawes saw Pekona standing there with Anith, seeming lost as Petia gulped down her water. Anith touched one ear and gestured around, and Ylawes nodded again.
Anith was good at this. The [Knight] was grateful, but Lord Comigen was suddenly alarmed.
“Captain, I trust that’s a friend of yours?”
“Lyonette? Yes, she’s been aiding us. That was how we found Lord Restraud, in fact.”
It felt like that was a good way to mention Erin, and Comigen clearly associated Lyonette with Erin since he’d not seen the [Pavilion of Secrets] in person. His face cleared a bit.
“Ah, ah, I see. Very good, and one has allies as a Gold-ranker. I understand. I just wish to make it clear, Captain, that you haven’t been, ah, speaking of our particular contract to this Lady Lyonette? Or anyone else? We will get that contract witnessed for your share of the proceedings, but I would consider it a note of your integrity for your silence.”
“About what?”
Comigen appeared even more alarmed until Ylawes’ befuddled brain caught up.
“Oh, the, ah, discovery. Of course, I haven’t told anyone!”
The dungeon-keep they’d found near Terland’s dig site. Comigen relaxed.
“Excellent, Captain. It’s not as if we have a claim on it in actual writing, and I trust the, ah, entrance is suitably obscured. But between that and what we’ve left in our camp…very good. House Terland remembers those who act with discretion. We’ll have to go back for it at once. But without Golems…”
The keep. It was certainly valuable beyond belief if Mithril weapons were in even the first few rooms. The Terlands had seen all the artifacts, and the ones they’d been able to rescue without losing them to mana drain were already a fortune. Ylawes bit his lip, but he just nodded along.
Telling someone would be foolish, at any rate. It’d ruin his name. He and Comigen nodded at each other, then turned and saw six Drakes staring at their backs. All of them were sitting at a table with a [Clerk]—
They whirled back in their seats, and Comigen and Ylawes jumped. It was such naked eavesdropping—
“Hearts of stone!”
Comigen glanced at his Golems as if debating having his bodyguards hit the Drakes, but there was nothing to do. Now, Ylawes was doubly glad they’d been covert. He backed up.
“This is not the place to talk, clearly.”
“No, I’d prefer private, warded rooms! Or just to not be here. Let’s see about that gold. Wait, what is this?”
When Comigen went striding back over, he found that the Merchant’s Guild had opened its vaults to give his party…fifty gold pieces. Falene had six. The [Guildmaster] was apologizing.
“This is all we can spare for your party, Lord Comigen.”
“Ridiculous! At the prices we were quoted, this won’t even be enough for suitable lodgings for my people! I insist on our accounts being paid out! We are House Terland, Guildmaster!”
The nobles bristled, and at this point, the [Guildmaster]’s patience snapped. He drew himself up, adjusting his broad, colorful belt across his belly, and barked.
“This is not the north, and you are in Drake lands, sir! We’ve done all we can, and you’re not the only noble, north or south, we’ve had! The Merchant’s Guild in Goisedall does not have the coins to give out to all!”
The [Lord] stopped, slightly aghast, and the [Guildmaster] turned to Ylawes.
“As for your issue, adventurer, we have received your report, and we’ll forwards it to our headquarters for processing. I believe the Adventurer’s Guild could use a report.”
“I’ve got some gold, Ylawes.”
Not enough. Falene mouthed at him, but the [Guildmaster] was adamant.
“We have given all we can to our members in excellent standing—let me assure you, it’s the most we’ve been able to hand out to one party today! Please assure Miss Lyonette we have done our best, and deepest apologies to House Terland!”
The astonished Terlands were being ushered out of the Guild, and the [Guildmaster] clearly thought he’d dealt with all his woes. Ylawes’ heart sank. If Lyonette weren’t so busy…! He’d have taken anyone from the inn popping up, Peggy, Rosencrantz, even Asgra!
Then, someone dashed over with a scrying mirror, and the [Guildmaster] turned.
“What is it now? I’m busy, and I need a break.”
“Sir, scrying spell for you. Answer it, Headquarter’s orders.”
“Headquarters? Er—hello? Merchant’s Guild, Goisedall. Guildmaster—”
A calmly annoyed, young voice spoke through the mirror, and Ylawes saw the [Guildmaster] freeze. He put an arm out, forestalling his group leaving on a hunch.
“Guildmaster Levretz. I am representing my student, Miss Lyonette of The Wandering Inn, and her friends, for whom she is quite concerned. You will rectify this issue forthwith. Is this understood?”
“I—ah—we’ve given the Silver Swords all due help given the situation, and regretfully—who is this?”
Guildmaster Levretz stared at the mirror, and Ylawes, edging around, saw him turn it slightly. He caught sight of a brown face, a girl’s, with golden eyeliner, a crown of soft gold on her head, and eyes older than anything he’d ever seen.
The Quarass of Germina spoke, visibly annoyed.
“I am the Quarass of Germina, Shield Kingdom of Chandrar. Your Merchant’s Guild Headquarters is well aware of who I am and of my standing. Waste any more of my time and I shall deliver my objections to them.”
The [Guildmaster] might have known who the Quarass was by name, but the advent of television meant everyone turned their heads, and Ylawes’ mouth opened. Had Lyonette just…?
He saw those eyes flick to him and shivered. Levretz was stuttering.
“Y-Your Majesty! Deepest apologies! I am so sorry about the delays, but you must understand, given our situation…”
“I am not a member of the Five Families, Guildmaster. I am not an individual. I am a nation, and you are wasting my time. Give the Silver Swords your funds.”
She was tapping a finger on the armrest of her throne, and each tap reminded Ylawes that Germina was famous for the Quarass’ wisdom. And assassins. The Drake was sweating now.
“I—I truly don’t have enough gold in the vaults to oblige your request, Your Majesty! I was not lying! We have members and other accounts in fine standing, all of whom need gold and none of whom will get enough! I could show you the vaults if you’d like? Please?”
He gestured, almost jogging behind the counter to prove his hands were tied. The Quarass blinked her eyes slowly, glancing around the Merchant’s Guild, and then she sighed.
Sighed like she were eternally let down by the foolishness of others. When she spoke, her voice was overly-patient, as one might speak to a child.
“You are a [Merchant] and [Guildmaster] and you think in but coins and hard numbers…? Very well, I shall spell out the answer for you. Give the Silver Swords due compensation from Lyonette du Marquin’s account in appropriate goods and services, Guildmaster. Commodities, which I know you possess.”
“Commodities? I don’t follow, Your M…”
Then Levretz stopped and swallowed, and the Quarass went on, inspecting some painted fingernails.
“Your membership deposits goods with the Guild for safekeeping before buying and selling bulk transactions. Draw from those. Doubtless, there are valuables in Goisedall of sufficient quantity and worth. Food.”
Food? Ylawes didn’t know how [Merchants] worked, but the [Guildmaster] was stammering, now.
“Y-Your Majesty of Germina, I cannot take our members’ goods to use as coinage! I don’t have the market value, and the scandal—”
Evidently, the Quarass had lost patience with the Drake. If she’d had any to begin with. She clicked her fingers, and someone offscreen handed her something. She read it, then flicked her eyes back up.
“Guildmaster, I would advise you to turn down the sound on this scrying spell. I am going to say something you would not like repeated. Then, if I am not obliged within the minute, I shall repeat it to all interested parties.”
He fumbled with the scrying mirror, then held it against one ear. Ylawes didn’t see the Quarass’ face or hear what was said, and even the Gnolls couldn’t hear as they cupped their ears, but whatever she said, the [Guildmaster] turned dead white. Then he turned and began running.
“Get me an inventory of everything we’ve got. One minute, Your Majesty! One—”
He ran. In the ensuing silence, Falene managed to close her jaw.
“W-was that the Quarass of Germina? Interceding on our behalf?”
She turned to Ylawes for confirmation, and he was just as wide-eyed.
“I think so. Lyonette has some connection to her. Did she say Lyonette was her student?”
“Lyonette, taught by the Quarass of Germina.”
Falene repeated it and shook her head. She fiddled with her spectacles, shaking her head.
“She’s certainly risen to the occasion. I remember when she was just a meek [Barmaid]. I think we owe her all a debt of thanks. But what is so pressing that she has to send a monarch to help us instead of someone at the inn?”
Ylawes was hungry and watched her nibbling at her biscuit, and he just shook his head.
“I can’t even think. Falene, Comigen was worried about our agreement. You haven’t said anything, have you?”
She eyed him and seemed to know exactly what he meant in a moment. She sighed.
“Ylawes, I’ve not said a word, and I suggest we keep it that way at the moment. Dawil knows better than to run his mouth, I trust. Let’s focus on lodging first, shall we?”
Chastened and embarrassed, he nodded, and Falene glanced around.
“Pekona, Anith, if you’re free, why don’t you help us port whatever the Quarass gets out of here? We may need to be a touch discreet if it’s a large amount.”
Both jumped to obey, and Petia herself was ready to haul goods, but Ylawes found the [Guildmaster] himself returning with a bag of holding.
“Courtesy of the Merchant’s Guild of Goisedall. I trust this will be enough, Your Majesty. We do apologize for all our inconveniences.”
The small ruler in the scrying mirror glanced at Ylawes once.
“It shall. Ylawes Byres of the Silver Swords, inform Lyonette that I have acceded to her request. I am not pleased. Our relationship is not one to be called on for trivial matters. But perhaps—”
She tilted her head.
“I would advise you to take a month to recover, regardless. Remember this favor. I shall.”
“Thank you, Your M—”
The scrying mirror went blank, and Ylawes stared at it, then at the Drake. Wordlessly, the [Guildmaster] backed up. Ylawes glanced into the bag of holding he’d been given as everyone stared at him. It was always hard to see into such things, but he thought he saw several sacks of something and…
Was that sausage? Dried links of it? Bags of holding were like looking down into a pitch-black cellar from above and seeing items floating in the void. But he thought he saw a sausage twirling in the aether, and his stomach growled.
“Well, I don’t know what to think but I believe we have our payment. Where’s that inn, Ylawes? We only had an hour, and we’ve eaten most of it up. Let’s go.”
Falene plucked the bag of holding out of Ylawes’ hands. She fastened it to her belt and swept for the doors. Everyone followed, and Ylawes stood there. He wanted to thank Lyonette, but she never came back.
She must have been busy.
 
——
 
Dawil was outside the Merchant’s Guild with the others, hopping from foot to foot. His face betrayed his nerves as he eyed the disappointed people leaving; House Terland was standing around disconsolately, and he burst out the moment he saw them.
“Lad, how much did you get? Anything? I reckon we’re better off getting to Nailren’s camp or just marching if not…”
Ylawes grimaced at him, then clenched a fist on the edge of his shield. Dawil’s posture relaxed instantly, though he pretended not to have noticed their private sign. Falene sniffed.
“Nothing really. House Terland has all the weight. Come on, let’s figure out what we’re doing.”
Outwardly, the three Gold-rankers were dismayed, and Lord Comigen’s party was the group the people beyond the Merchant’s Guild were turning to. However, it was Lord Comigen who seemed the most dismayed.
“Fifty gold pieces. Well, ah, shall we find a place of residence? Then the Mage’s Guild…”
 
——
 
The Seafarer’s Catch wasn’t far from the Merchant’s Guild, and it was on the main street. Ylawes had to move at a crawl given the press of bodies, and he actually let the Terlands’ Golems clear a way.
He had to act casual, anyways, not reveal that Falene had something to use as coinage, here. Vuliel Drae was dismayed at first as Insill, Larr, and Dasha feared that they were going to have to leave, but Anith managed to communicate what was going on subtly.
It was Homle’s group who was the most anxious, but Ylawes just walked along, head on a swivel.
What he saw made him incredulous. As he’d been told by Gliva, everywhere was packed. People were crowding every building, banging on doors to ask to rent other people’s homes, but that wasn’t all.
A group of Drakes was marching out of the city gates, hauling lumber and tools to build more places for people to rest. They passed a dice game on the streets where silver was glittering on the rug.
“Oi! No gambling in the open!”
A Watch officer shouted, but she was so far back and so many people wanted her attention to report thefts, to ask for help, that the gamblers just kept playing three rolls of the dice before she got to them and made them break it up.
Gambling in the open? Well, that wasn’t all—Ylawes heard a shout.
“You there? Anyone fancy a good time? Come on over for lodging for an hour?”
Lodging for an hour? He didn’t think that was worth it—when Ylawes turned his head, he saw a Human woman waving at Homle and his group. She blew a kiss at him, and he blinked at her. He felt like something was off, but he was so desperate he called back.
“Can we rent for a night? What are your rates?”
Dawil slapped his face as the woman paused, then laughed.
“That’s pricier, sir, but come along and we’ll see what we can do!”
“Lad. Lad, that’s a [Prostitute].”
Dawil growled as Ylawes was about to ask Insill to step over, and Ylawes jumped and turned crimson.
“What, in the open like that? I’ve seen them in big cities, but on the main street? Isn’t it illegal here?”
“Might be. But in a city this bustling?”
The Watch officer had turned her head, but the woman advertising ‘services’ was gone. Which was not to say that there wasn’t a lot of interest there! More than one person Ylawes passed by on the streets was drunk, and it wasn’t even that far past midday! In fact, one of them came over.
“Hey, Miss. How much for a quick one, you and me?”
“What?”
Pekona jumped as a man caught her shoulder with the missing arm with a grin. He blinked as he saw her stump of an arm.
“If you’re on discount—”
“Oi. She’s not for sale, flatface. Back off!”
Before Ylawes could get back there, Petia shoved the drunk back, and he growled—right up until he saw Larr bare his teeth and Anith and Dasha put hands on their blades. Then the drunk was backing up.
“Damn it, I can’t even ask—?”
Ylawes wanted a stern word with the man himself, and he was pushing forwards in the crowd to say something when there was a yelp, a shout, and a Drake went leaping away from him.
“I’m sorry, I didn’t see where I was—”
Ylawes’ first thought was he’d stepped on her foot, but when he saw the young Drake was clutching at her clawed hand, he blinked. There was blood on her scales. She had on a hood, nondescript clothing, and she was—
“[Thief]!”
Dawil roared, and Ylawes’ hand flew to his belt pouch. It wasn’t there! She’d robbed—!
Insill brandished a dagger as he backed up, Ylawes’ belt pouch in hand. The [Rogue] handed it to Ylawes as he spat.
“Claws off! This is my team, not a foist’s mark, idiots.”
He lowered his dagger and flashed a few weird signs with his claws. The Drake [Thief] was backing away fast, and someone tried to grab her.
“[Thief]! Call the Watch! Grab the—”
She went running, shoving at the crowd, who shouted and grabbed for their money bags. Ylawes, shaken, had hold on his pouch as Insill turned.
“Sorry, Captain. Barely saw her. I’m all rusty—”
“You saved us, Insill. What did you do there?”
The Drake blushed.
“Oh, you know, just a few thief-signs. If anyone’s watching they’ll back off a bit. Probably. But let’s get out of here fast; they must have smelled you had gold on you. That drunk might’ve been a distraction—or she just took the opportunity. Classic setup-and-grab.”
Ylawes was appalled. He was used to pickpockets and, yes, even [Prostitutes], but Goisedall was rife with both by the sounds of it! Falene was also incensed.
“Tree rot, I’ve had enough of this. Everyone back!”
Falene swept back, staff raised, and a blast of wind made everyone around her flinch backwards. The air didn’t freeze or knock people away, but suddenly, Ylawes felt a tiny bit quicker.
[Mass Speed]? No, [Mass Quickening]. A Tier 2 spell or something. It lasted all of fifteen seconds, but it let the Silver Swords and their company close ranks. Falene spoke loudly.
“Let’s get out of here. Stick together! Are we missing anyone?”
They were, actually. So Petia and Homle had to move back with Larr and Dasha to find members of their group being bogged down, but they were almost at the inn. Ylawes passed by Lord Comigen’s party and heard the [Lord] trying to buy passage in a nice inn where a Drake with folded arms and a fresh apron was barring the doors. Lovely smells of grilled meat wafted from within, and it didn’t seem too crowded, but the Drake refused the [Lord] entry.
“You don’t have enough gold for that many, let alone Golems, sir.”
“They’ll act as security!”
“It’s standing room only; they’d take our floor space.”
“Then they can stand outside! But see here, I have this much gold…”
The fifty gold pieces plus a handful from the rest of the Terlands did not impress the Drake, who counted up his group.
“That’s not enough for more than three rooms, sir. Food would not be included, either.”
“See here! We’re nobles and members of the Five Families! Our very presence would add a touch of prestige and level you all from—”
Lady Safta began, and the Drake laughed.
“Hah! I’m very sorry, sirs, madams, but that’s not worth more than a gold coin or two. If you’d like one or two rooms with a meal, please let me know. Otherwise—please clear the entryway! [Server’s Orders]!”
And he shoved them back. The nobles were so aghast they didn’t even fight the Skill. Lord Comigen was pulling at his hair.
“Why, I’ve never been—Drakes!”
He said it like a curse, and Ylawes saw his head turn, hunted, to the inn that Ylawes was approaching. A Gnoll and Drake were sitting on the front steps, and one growled.
“No entry. One person talks to Gliva at a time—”
“We’re the Silver Swords! We have a reservation?”
The two door-guards blinked at him, and one got up and opened the inn, revealing a much quieter one as-yet unflooded. The staff were bringing out fresh bread to hungry clients. And Hostess Gliva?
Well, she was visibly startled when he presented his company, and she gestured at the insides, a touch embarrassed.
“To be honest, I didn’t think you could pay, so we’ve taken in people for food. Plenty of time to fill the night’s lodging…I meant what I said, though. Unless you have gold on hand, no entry.”
“Would this do, Miss?”
Falene pushed forwards and showed Gliva the contents of her bag of holding and whispered in her ear as she flashed some gold at the [Hostess]. Gliva’s eyes focused on the bag of holding.
“That—where’d you get that?”
“Merchant’s Guild. I think it would be worth quite a bit, although perhaps more than a night’s lodging? May we speak to your [Innkeeper]?”
Falene was very good. Gliva stepped back and was calling for the [Innkeeper], and Ylawes watched, heart rising, as the two Drake women conferred with the half-Elf and then called out.
“Torga, Ribreg, [Memorize Faces]! This entire group is booked for the night! Everyone with the, uh, Silver Swords!”
The [Door Guards] raised their brows, but the Gnoll sniffed and grinned.
“Hells yes. That’s worth more’n gold. Alright, enter one by one so we get a good look at you. We don’t know you? You don’t enter. Too many damn [Sneak Thieves]. Who’s with you?”
He turned to Ylawes, and the [Knight] stood, incredulous. Relieved. Dawil grinned.
“I knew that The Wandering Inn’d come through for us! I should have married Erin when I got the chance.”
Ylawes laughed as he began motioning people forwards.
“Vuliel Drae—Poke Duo’s outside with Nailren; we should take something to them. Oh, Dawil, snack. And Petia, Homle, your people!”
The [Door Guards]’ brows rose at the number coming into the inn, but they seemed used to crowds in excess of normal. Gliva hurried back over as Ylawes handed the second biscuit to Dasha and Insill and Larr to split, stomach rumbling, but he was exuberant. And when he turned his head and saw Lord Comigen standing forlornly in the street…
“One more group. Lord Comigen!”
At this, the Drake lady did balk a bit, protesting.
“Hold on, this is a huge crowd—”
“We have gold! Adventurer Byres, you actually got rooms? What did the [Guildmaster] give you?”
The Terlands practically stampeded for the doors, and their gold, plus the Golems acting as outside security, bought them entry. They were so grateful to flood into the inn and sit on the chairs. When Ylawes stepped into the inn…
It smelled like baking bread. The floorboards were clean and soft, and there wasn’t rain falling on him. He saw staff members moving around with tankards of water—just water, but it was clean, and they didn’t have to draw it from the river or drink it stale out of water flasks.
And it was warm.
He almost sat down on the floor, but he was being waved over to the tables, and Gliva’s voice filled the inn.
“Attention, guests! Anyone who’s not booked for the night, you’ve got an hour to finish your meals. No loitering. After that, we’re closed to all but our lodgers! We’ll have food out soon. No seconds; miss a meal and it’s gone! Tonight’s dinner is a sausage-barley soup with fresh bread!”
The cheer that arose from her words came from every throat. Falene, who’d put her feet up on a second chair, raised a hand.
“Is there a salad by any—oh, tree rot take it.”
She lay there and breathed in and out.
“No more mana drain. I feel like I’m alive again, not dying daily.”
“We made it, Pointy! Lad, get yourself seated before you pass out. Dead gods, fresh bread! I’d break toes for it! What was the inside of the Guild like?”
Ylawes levered himself into the chair and sat, and then he could think. He gulped down some water, and it tasted sweet. The young Drake who’d passed it to him refilled his cup, blinking, then spoke.
“We’ll have some food out fast as the [Cook] and Miss Merwic can manage, sir. You come from the New Lands?”
“Aye, the north foothills. Seen a lot of people like us? We could use more water. It tastes sweet!”
The Drake brought back more.
“It’s just well water, though I think it is cleaned? We get more going than coming, but some come back looking like you all. Rougher, even. Did you see monsters out there?”
Dawil was clearly exhausted, but he developed a twinkle in his eyes. He tapped the side of his nose.
“Aye, Landsharks, huge walking monsters, giant snails, little leech-things at night—not many bad ones save for the sharks, but we were hungry enough to kill and eat one! Gold-rank threats, I’ll be bound. What have you heard, lad?”
“Oh, we heard about the Landsharks. You killed one? Someone brought back their teeth. They’re worth gold if you’ve got any.”
Dawil grimaced.
“Damn, we didn’t think to—eh, without bags of holding, it’d be too heavy. We made it. That’s what matters, eh, team?”
He turned, and Ylawes saw Vuliel Drae were at their tables, laughing in relief, even shaking a bit. The other Humans from the Consortium, House Terland—
He smiled. Wished Poke Duo were here. Then his face fell.
“We made it. But we’ve lost so much.”
“None of that now. Celebrate today, count the losses tomorrow.”
Dawil wagged a finger, and Falene opened her eyes to cover her face.
“Argh, but we really have lost so much, Dawil! We’re Silver-rankers in gear, now. Or Bronze—”
He tipped his water back, quaffing it, and wiped at his beard.
“Don’t ruin the mood, Falene! Trust Dwarf wisdom. We took a hit, we don’t focus on it. If we have to gripe, we look forwards, not back. Unless there’s a bugger chasing us, of course. Listen. Ylawes has his sword, you’ve got your magic, we’ve got gold stashed, and we’re alive. What’s next is my question.”
He found a chair to put his feet up on, and Ylawes and Falene turned to him. The Dwarf exhaled, closed his eyes, then popped one open.
“I reckon we either head back in on profitable, short-term jobs like the Terlands or we bug out entirely. Up to you. But I’m actually for the former.”
“Go back to the New Lands, Dawil, are you mad?”
Falene was horrified, but Dawil grunted.
“See here, we’ve already lost our gear. What’s left to lose? Aside from our heads—we’ve got some experience. Next time we go in with rations, preparation. The lower-leveled adventurers are gaining in experience, and Poke Duo—hah—they’re thriving! If we don’t like that, we just back out and rebuild our gear.”
He was so calm and steady that Ylawes had to engage, not focus on his missing gear. He sat up as Falene rubbed at her face.
“Dawil, I’d have to go in, conserve my mana, then fight for every Tier 1 spell for…you’re right. I hate it when you’re right, but Goisedall is proof there’s gold to be had. Even if there’s not much in the Merchant’s Guild, did you see how much even a bag of flour is going for? We could go to some Drake cities, grab some food, and sell it as [Merchants]. If we headed east, bought cheap, then came back we’d be richer on gold and have perishables.”
“We have no Skills, though, Falene.”
Ylawes pointed out, and she gave him two raised brows.
“At the moment? I think it wouldn’t matter, Ylawes. Did you see how much gold is being traded?”
He remembered Gliva and the [Merchant] in City Hall.
“Oh, I saw. So you don’t want to disband? Even after I led us into this—”
They kicked him. So fast that both winced, and Falene grabbed at her foot. Dawil cursed.
“Damn shinguards. Lad, if you start moping about your role as ‘Captain’ on this adventure, I’ll smack you. We all made mistakes, we all got out. I said I was proud of you—don’t go making me take back my words. Now, I smell bread. If we aren’t stuffing our faces in twenty minutes, I’ll cry. And believe you me, if you think you’ve seen distressing things so far, just wait!”
He got a laugh from the other two, and like that, the Silver Swords relaxed. Ylawes settled back in his chair, and they just breathed for a moment. Unlike the chatter from around the room. He half-heard the others.
Vuliel Drae.
“—actually back! But our gear, and the Silver Swords! What do we do, Anith?”
“I think we trade gear and hardship for levels, Insill. And it’s not exactly bad for us. If Pekona’s right and we get a share of…Terland treasure…”
At another table, Homle and Petia.
“I don’t know what the Merchant’s Guild is gonna do to us, Petia. We were in arrears, but we’d be paid up by the time we got to the New Lands. But what’s the penalty for quitting?”
“I don’t remember the contract. I was in debt. Look, let’s figure it out later. Your group sticking together?”
“My lads and I go way back. They’ll haul off with me at least until we figure out where we stand. Yours?”
“They’ve got nowhere to go. But even if the Silver Swords head off, we might find work. Goisedall needs [Farmers], and here we’d be able to plant. I saw a [Recruiter] asking for Level 10 [Farmhands], and we could get jobs if they’ll feed and board us.”
“Mm. Good. Damn me, but what an adventure. How many levels’d you get? Five?”
“Four. Cheers to that.”
Levels. Ylawes opened one eye, envious of how other people could level in the face of adversity. Well, he’d gained some himself, but this hadn’t exactly been a test of his combat-skills mostly. Just surviving.
If they can survive all of this, so can we. It just feels harder because we were higher and had more to lose, but Dawil’s right. We could be dead of starvation if we’d done things wrong. The [Merchants] had been faced with ruination, and in that sense…
Hmm.
Wait a moment.
Ylawes Byres’ head turned around the inn as Gliva came out with the first loaf of bread, which was, to his incredulity, a rosemary bread loaded with some parmesan baked into it. Some of the Terlands actually got up to applaud as it was cut up, and his stomach roared like a lion.
But his eyes were scanning the crowd. Petia’s farmers and Homle’s miners…he didn’t have a full head count, but he remembered faces, and they seemed there and looked out for each other.
Vuliel Drae. Poke Duo was with Nailren…
…Yet there was one person who was supposed to be with them, only, no one would be looking out for him because he was alone. Ylawes licked his lips as a loaf came over to his table.
“Wait a second. Where’s Merchant Anlam?”
Falene and Dawil both had a piece of bread in their mouths and were chewing when the half-Elf frowned.
“Fhy. Fhy’s fne. Er. He is absent. Did we lose him? Or did he slip away when we got to town?”
Dawil drummed his fingers on the table.
“Damn, I completely forgot the man. Maybe he got lost. Or went for the Merchant’s Guild? You think we should have grabbed him and had a word?”
Ylawes half-rose, but there was half a loaf just for his table, and he hesitated.
“We already put a report in with the Merchant’s Guild. And we can report at the Adventurer’s Guild, Dawil. On truth stone. If he wandered off, well, I think he knows where we are. I could go check.”
He reached for the loaf of bread, and Falene and Dawil grabbed his arm.
“Lad. What’re you doing?”
“Ylawes Byres, drop it.”
The [Knight] glowered at their warning expressions.
“It’s for Poke Duo. And Nailren?”
“Oh.”
They let go, and he sighed.
“I’ll bring it to them. I wanted to check on them—and if Anlam’s out there, he deserves a meal and rest. Hold on, I might as well…Insill! Let’s head to the Adventurer’s Guild and Mage’s Guild real quick. Actually, Dawil, would you mind coming with us?”
The Dwarf groaned.
“Can’t it wait? No, it damn well can’t. Argh.”
He stood as Insill jumped.
“What, Captain? Oh! My family!”
He stood in a rush, and Ylawes felt at his coin pouch.
“We should let them know you’re alive. To come to it, everyone should tell their families. We’ve all been out of contact, and I’m sure they’re worried.”
He called out to the entire room, and Anith blinked as Homle and Petia’s groups turned. Ylawes was gesturing to the door when Falene rolled her eyes.
“Ylawes, you have a [Mage] in this room who can cast [Message]. Plenty of times now that I’m out of the mana-drain! Leave Insill with me! I’ll offer the same service to anyone who needs it.”
She nodded to the others, even the Terlands. Lord Comigen nodded back.
“It’s quite appreciated, Adventurer Skystrall, though we have our own casters…we may prevail on you!”
“I can share mana, if nothing else.”
Anith got up, and Falene beckoned Vuliel Drae close.
“You might as well pick up the spell if you can. Just watch me cast. Insill first. Compose your message—write it down if there’s paper and ink? Then I shall send. I need the name of your city and address of the person…they’ll handle the costs.”
She shooed Ylawes and Dawil to the doors, and he nodded to her. Anith glanced up.
“You need an escort, Captain? Dasha and Larr could go…”
“Not in Goisedall. Though I’ll take Larr, maybe? For Anlam.”
“Great. Hunting fat [Merchants]. Feels like home.”
The surly Gnoll pushed himself up, and he followed Ylawes and Dawil into the street. The Dwarf patted his stomach.
“Dead gods, that bread feels good! Lad, you didn’t have a bite!”
“I’ll share it with Poke Duo. First the Adventurer’s Guild. Larr, just let us know if you smell or see Anlam.”
Larr touched his nose, mildly amused.
“With so many about? I’m a [Ranger], but even a newborn cub would have trouble tracking in this city, Captain. I’ll try.”
“Just stick with us, lad. How’re you holding up? Got family you want to notify?”
Larr shrugged as he ambled with the two senior Gold-rankers.
“I’ll ask after we get back. Um, thanks, Dawil. They’re used to me being away. I’ll tell my Chieftain or Shaman, but it’s hard to get word to them. No [Mages], you know?”
“Ah, right. Makes it trickier, doesn’t it? Me, I’m used to chatting up home every now and then with [Messages]. This New Lands stuff…you okay?”
Larr grimaced again. Then he scratched at the back of his head as they wound their way towards the Adventurer’s Guild. The light was fading a bit—they must have rested longer than Ylawes thought—but the streets felt even more packed. Larr stared at the sky, the ground, then spoke.
“I’m sorry I wasn’t as good as Captain Nailren. I guess he is better than me. Sorry. He’s a real [Hunter].”
He hung his head as Dawil and Ylawes turned back. The two eyed each other, then Ylawes shook his head.
“Larr, no one’s assuming that. You were excellent with your bow and tracking.”
“Fat lot I shot. I used to hunt, but I don’t have the class, and I was a [Ranger]. Patrol. But Nailren walked out and knew where every plant and bird was.”
Ylawes saw Larr’s ears droop, and he didn’t know what to say. But Dawil always did. The Dwarf stepped back, then slapped Larr on the lower back so hard the Gnoll yelped and drew everyone’s eye.
“Kid, you did great. Don’t beat yourself up! Sure, see where you’re behind, but look at us Gold-rankers. We all got into a bind in areas we’re not good at. We made it. When we’re out of Goisedall, I tell you what, you write back to your Chieftain or Shaman and ask your old [Hunters] for tips, huh? If we get a chance, go back and get some traps and practice a bit. So next time, you can bag more food. We’re adventurers. We fail? We go back prepared. Got it?”
Larr’s head rose, and Ylawes exhaled. The Gnoll nodded, and Ylawes murmured as they continued.
“Sometimes, I think you should be the leader, Dawil. You know what to say.”
“Bah, I hate walking in front, negotiating with idiots, and paying for things.”
“…Wait, that’s the only reason?”
“Absolutely. Give me long legs, a [Charming Smile], and a bit more gold and I’ll oust you as Captain in a heartbeat.”
Dawil was straight-faced as Larr grinned, and Ylawes snorted.
“You—! I’m going to make you report to the Adventurer’s Guild, then! Let’s see you smooth this over.”
 
——
 
As a matter of fact, Dawil and Ylawes did report to the Adventurer’s Guildmistress herself, who heard them out gravely in her office. Her guild was no less packed than any other place, and the [Receptionist] had told them flat out there was nowhere to sleep. When they’d told her they needed to report on a tricky matter—the failed expedition—she’d called for the Guildmistress.
The Drake was understanding.
“This has happened more than once, Captain Ylawes, Adventurer Dawil. I’ve noted your testimony on truth stone, and I’ll see what the Merchant’s Guild says. They have their own standards, but what I think will happen is that the contract will be voided. No pay short of your advance, and depending on how many days you were out there before you left, they might try to halve the pay. But you were being coerced with Skills.”
“They said that was all part of our contracts, Guildmistress Riva.”
The woman grimaced.
“If it was, I don’t like it, and I haven’t heard of it! But then, how many high-level [Merchants] had these kind of escort contracts until now? Listen, I have to get back to work. Most monsters in the New Lands are just weird; it’s all categorization, and everyone wants parts, from [Alchemists] to the Walled Cities. But I have heard tell of bad monster threats. You haven’t seen any out there?”
They told her aside from the Landsharks, they hadn’t. Ylawes thought of the keep, but Dawil just touched his foot with his own, and the [Knight] kept his face blank. The Guildmistress sighed.
“Good. That’s good. Well, you’ll…not hear from me. But check back in here or any Adventurer’s Guild for the resolution and your pay. Knowing the Merchant’s Guild, it might take months for backpay, but it’s in our ledgers, and they never forget.”
She gave them a rueful smile as Larr stood with the other two, and the Guildmistress held out a clawed hand.
“Congratulations on surviving and getting so many out.”
“Thank you, Guildmistress. We didn’t do much—”
“No. Congratulations. That’s all, adventurers. I’ve seen more than a number of our kind come back, and we do make it more than others. But few come back with the people they went out with. Good job.”
Ylawes’ stomach growled, and the [Guildmistress] smiled as he blushed.
“Now get something to eat, would you?”
Nothing would please Ylawes more than to eat the bread he was carrying or head back to the Seafarer’s Catch for the promised meal, but they had to leave the city first.
Poke Duo and Nailren had camped a ways away from the city. It was more taxing to even walk out that far than Dawil, Ylawes, and Larr thought. They were exhausted, but when they found the campsite, near a flat rock with two grazing horses, Ylawes didn’t see the trio.
At first, he thought they had left and was greatly worried; the ground was just empty, denuded of any tents, until he heard a psst.
“Hey, Captain Guy! Here!”
He jumped, turned, and what he’d taken for a patch of grass lifted up. Rasktooth waved at him from the hole the three had dug. Larr leapt back in shock, and Dawil laughed.
Infinitypear, seeming quite smug, pushed more dirt out of the hole as Nailren appeared and sniffed.
“Is that bread I smell? There’s nothing to hunt for ages, and I don’t fancy just worms. We’ve dug a hole to hide our things and keep unwanted attention away from us. I’m amazed how fast Antinium dig.”
Leave it to those three to identify Goisedall’s problems and take precautions. Ylawes reached for his belt pouch.
“We’ve settled in the city, but I’m afraid you two can’t enter, Poke Duo. I’m sorry. Nailren, if you wanted to—I brought bread! But everything else is dear.”
The bread made the two young adventurers cheer, and Nailren bared his teeth.
“After seeing the state of the city, I understand, Ylawes. I’ll head back into the wilds after this, maybe after doing some shopping if there’s anything to be had. Bread and our provisions will more than do. And Poke Duo’s fine company.”
Rasktooth grinned as he cut up some of the bread and added some sliced-up tuber-worm, fried and crispy, to a sandwich. Nailren didn’t even blink as he produced some sauce to go with it. And some of yesterday’s clams he’d squirreled away.
Dead gods, that looks like a feast! Ylawes genuinely hesitated when Rasktooth invited him to share the food, but he shook his head.
“No, I, ah, I can get more. It’s nearly dinner time at the inn, and I could bring you some…?”
“This is fine, Captain. We is like Nailren, yah? He very wise.”
The Gnoll nodded.
“I appreciate learning from these two. Those tuberworms…fascinating. I’ll walk around tomorrow, but you seem ready to pass out. You sure you won’t have some?”
Dawil, Larr, and Ylawes hesitated, the [Knight] most of all since he hadn’t had that glorious bread, but there wasn’t a full abundance of food here. Infinitypear couldn’t even eat the bread, so he was making a tuber-worm sandwich with fried clam.
“We’ll have food. Do you need someone to trade out, Nailren?”
“I’m rested, and I’ll keep watch, Ylawes. You’ve been starved. Rest indeed.”
Nailren reassured Ylawes, and the man ducked his head. He’d have to make it up to Nailren, somehow. Dawil eyed their camp.
“Any trouble with people sniffing around, lads? Especially with the…cargo?”
He meant the Mithril. Ylawes hadn’t known where the pack was at first and had worried greatly until Dawil had told him he’d asked Poke Duo to hold onto it. Infinitypear pointed down and spoke.
“We have been sitting on it so it is not stolen out from under our feet, Dawil. That is also why Captain Nailren suggested we dig a hole.”
“Even if a [Thief] has a detection Skill, they don’t like the unexpected, and most aren’t good with bushcraft. We’ll keep an eye out, but once we close the hole off with some tarp, only a master would get in without us noticing.”
Another sensible precaution that eased Ylawes’ mind. Dawil slapped Infinitypear on the shoulder.
“Good lads. Just remember, you run into issues, you leg it, and let’s call…the New Lands ridge where everyone’s travelling our meetup point, got it, lads? Thanks for holding down the fort. We’ll be travelling eastwards for a bit, probably. Just so we can eat! Then we might see about what comes next.”
They left Poke Duo, and Ylawes double-timed it…at a fast walk…to Goisedall. He was starving, now. But fortunately, the Seafarer’s Catch was waiting for him. Inside—
 
——
 
Oh, dead gods it was a party. They had drinks, the Terlands were having one of their Golems sing a pre-recorded song, and there was grilled sausage and the promised stew.
Hearty.
Filling.
Larr bolted inside, and Dawil shouted.
“Food! Falene, if you’ve eaten my sausage, I’ll kill you and tell every half-Elf in Gaiil-Drome you’re a hypocrite meat-eater!”
She had not eaten their food, which came over hot and steaming as Ylawes sat, almost crying for relief. He didn’t know if the food or drink was making everyone giddy; he saw Dasha standing up on a chair.
“Here’s to adventuring! I feel aliiiiive!”
Some of the expeditioners were dancing, the Terlands clapping along to the song. They were all smiling, and it was the food, the stomachs, that produced a euphoria beyond anything you could imagine.
Only when you’d starved, actually starved, did a meal become a celebration. Larr joined his team, and only Pekona seemed to not be scarfing down her food. Her soup, yes, but she’d glanced up when Ylawes had come in, and she had a little wooden box—one of her possessions—placed on the table next to him.
When he reached for his plate, she seemed to relax and was lifting the lid of the box and bringing her bowl over when someone shouted.
“City Runner! Ylawes Byres! I’m a City Runner, not a [Thief]!”
There was a hooting sound from outside, a Golem’s warning and the two [Door Guards]. Ylawes spun, and his heart sank as Gliva strode over.
“I’ve heard that one before—oh, wait. I do know you. For you? Captain Ylawes?”
He rose, half-tempted to grab the bowl of soup. Dawil grunted.
“I’ll save your sausage, lad. Go for it.”
Falene was still casting [Message] spells and glowered at him as she nodded. Ylawes stepped for the door, and a panting young Drake waved at him.
“Sir—urgent request for you to take a [Message] at the Mage’s Guild!”
“Now? From whom? Can’t it wait?”
Ylawes stared inside at his food, but the City Runner shrugged.
“Sorry, sir. I just get paid to run ‘em, not call shots. You know how it is. Someone’s waiting on a live [Message] spell for you. Heard you got in from the Merchant’s Guild or something. Lord Yitton? And a Ysara? They had requests in for the moment someone knew you were alive.”
Father. Ysara? Ylawes closed his eyes. Oh, they had been concerned. He hesitated, glanced back at his food.
“Could I just—no, they’re waiting at the Guild? I’ll go. I’ll be back in just a second.”
“Lad, come on and get some food! They’ll hold twenty minutes!”
Dawil shouted, but the City Runner disagreed.
“They might not. ‘Less I say you’re on the way, everyone wants a spot.”
“Damn it—I’m coming! Someone save my food!”
Ylawes hesitated, but he couldn’t let his family think he was still in danger. He began to stride out the door, and Falene called out.
“Hold on, Ylawes! I’m coming!”
He actually lost her as the City Runner dashed down the street, and Ylawes had to move at a jog, cursing his leaden body. But when they got to the full Mage’s Guild and he found himself sitting at a booth as a [Message] scroll was shoved in front of him by a tired-looking [Mage]…
Falene. And she’d brought his soup.
“Someone stole the sausage when I wasn’t looking. Dawil, probably. Here.”
She put it down as Ylawes read, and he smiled at her. She sat down, patting her stomach.
“I’m exhausted and playing [Message] mage.”
“Thank you so much, Falene. I just…oh, dead gods damn it.”
Falene glanced down at Ylawes as he swore again, twice in a day—and she groaned. The familiar, golden writing on the scroll was tracing itself out.
 
This superior [Message] experience has been brought to you by the Terras faction of Wistram—
 
“That’s standard with everything now. Just skip it.”
“How?”
“You press a quill here and hold and—it’s [Adaptive Message], well, that’s the shorthand of the spell. I learned it from my contacts. So much magic in Wistram. I wish I’d stayed to learn it. Or joined Terras.”
Falene Skystrall sighed, and Ylawes saw the message write itself out, then vanish as the actual text began writing itself.
 
Lord Yitton Byres is online and waiting, Message Log 1.
Lady Ysara Byres is present, Message Log 2.
 
He began writing with a quill as he spoke to Falene out of the corner of his mouth.
“Did you get in touch with Insill’s parents?”
“I sent everything. They’re probably just getting the Street Runners I paid for now. I’m receiving. And it saves us gold, probably, since everything here costs a fortune. Your parents could have come through me…but they probably tried. I think they paid for a message set, so there’s no point rerouting through me.”
“Thank you, Falene. Seriously. I’ll pay you back for the [Messages], it’s just—the List of Expeditioners looked dire.”
She waved it away.
“Ylawes, don’t even bother. Do you think I’m heartless? And listening to some of what the Terlands were saying to their house was very enlightening. Golemancer Martz is a classic specialist. He doesn’t even know [Message]—likely because he had a Message Scroll and he resents being made to cast it. So they went through me.”
Ylawes was having two conversations at once. One in person, one on the page. He wrote, ‘I am here in Goisedall’s Mage’s Guild. Father, are you here?’
Then wrote one for Ysara. He had to figure out how to state what had happened…he glanced at Falene as his stomach rumbled.
“Oh. Interesting. What did they say? And—Pekona?”
Falene twisted, and a grimace appeared on her slightly besmudged features as Pekona shyly stepped into the booth. She had a weird lacquered box in her hand, and she fidgeted.
“Captain, Falene, I’m sorry. I—I was hoping to send a [Message].”
“Oh, of course. Pull up a seat—”
There was none, so Falene pointed, and a little pillar of earth rose. Pekona sat awkwardly as Falene gestured to her.
“If you write it down, Pekona? It was fascinating, Ylawes. Lady Ulva Terland…she reacted to the death of Lord Restraud as you might imagine. Her first two replies after all the explanations. ‘A Hunter-Killer Golem of 2nd Vaults will be dispatched for the murderers if they are not dead.’ And then—‘Do you suspect Reinharts?’ In that order. Hunter-Killer, Ylawes. That must be some kind of elite-Golem. And vaults…”
He remembered she loved secrets, and Pekona raised her hand.
“Miss Falene? What is that for Terland Golems?”
Again, Falene appeared a bit annoyed as she stopped leaning over to whisper with Ylawes.
“Specialist ones, Pekona. Golems so rare or powerful that no one has seen them. Terland Relics. Lady Ulva Terland was so incensed she was prepared to send one to avenge the death of Lord Restraud, which is simple. Her immediately suspecting one of the other Five Families did it is fascinating. And revealing how much she trusts them. I’ve heard the Reinharts are more active, so that is a commentary on them…”
“Oh, I see.”
Pekona fidgeted, head bowed. She had her black hair tied back, and like Falene, she looked slightly unkempt, though Ylawes was not one to talk. Falene saw Pekona staring at her hand in her lap and tsked.
“You don’t have any paper? You need to ask! Excuse me? Paper for [Messages] and ink.”
She snapped her fingers, and Pekona took it with murmured thanks. Ylawes thought there was a bit of less charitability on Falene’s side towards Pekona, but then, she hadn’t warmed to Poke Duo immediately either. He was still waiting for his father to start writing, so he sat back.
“Some soup would be good. Where’s that bowl, Falene?”
“Right here. It’s…huh?”
Falene pointed, and Ylawes turned his head to the end table in the booth, and he saw a little ring of moisture and no bowl. Falene half-rose.
“Wait, I put it—excuse me, where did—”
His heart sank into his boots as he realized that in the moments between him sitting and writing, someone had walked off with…
Maybe they’d thought it was someone else, and they’d bring it right back? When he saw a young [Apprentice] glance at the spot and shake their head, Ylawes put his head on the table.
There’s still food back at the inn. There’s still food back at—
The blow of the missing soup bowl left Falene angry and embarrassed, and when she came back, apologizing, he just shook his head. He was glad when she put her finger to her temples.
“Ylawes, I’ll go and get—hold on, it’s Insill’s parents. Quill, paper!”
She snapped her fingers, and he and Pekona scrambled to let her write. Then Ylawes’ gnawing hunger diminished as he was brought back into reality again. Because, well, it might be an invasion of privacy, but Falene was the [Mage] receiving [Messages]. She’d lectured Ylawes and Dawil long enough on how ‘privacy’ really didn’t exist with such spells or the Mage’s Guild. Plus…he couldn’t help it.
Falene spoke as she wrote.
“‘Insill, this is Reebis. Just got the Runner. Was at work, so I’m taking it straight home. Mom must be sleeping or Dad’s out. They have her on sleeping pills because she was so worried. Everyone was. Gonna buy a cow steak for everyone. You chowder-faced idiot. You okay? Got all your limbs? Don’t tell Mom if you don’t. She’s watching scrying orb every night. Knew you’d make it.’ Ah, that’s—well.”
Falene broke out of her trance, and Ylawes felt guilty, then embarrassed and unaccountably relieved.
“Who was that? Insill’s brother? They sound so…conversational.”
He turned, and Pekona nodded.
“Yes. He has six siblings.”
“Six?”
Falene and Ylawes chorused, in awe; Falene was a single-child, and Ylawes from his three-children family thought they were numerous. Then he sat.
“Sleeping pills. That’s…I imagine she was worried. Are the New Lands on the news?”
“They surely must be. If word about the you-know-what has spread…”
Falene flicked her fingers out, and Ylawes glanced at her.
“Mana drain. Shouldn’t we keep spreading the word? I was.”
She made a face at him.
“I—oh, yes, fine. I wanted to hoard the information, but I suppose it’s out and too important not to share! I am glad, though that was slightly personal.”
“So informal. With the siblings.”
They spoke like they were other Silver-rankers or…Ylawes wasn’t sure, but it wasn’t how he talked to Yvlon or Ysara. Well, maybe Yvlon these days, but that was because she’d changed so much. Falene could only shrug.
“Most are. Argh, wait, now everyone’s writing in. This one’s Dawil. Quill!”
Another [Message] came in as Ylawes sat, and again, it wasn’t what he expected.
 
Adventurer Dawil of Silver Swords, Dwarfhome has received your message. We are forwarding to your family now. Well done on surviving.
The breaking of your axe has been reported to the proper individuals, but no cause for return has been expressed. Repair was not needed/warranted.
Any further information about the New Lands would be welcome through secure channels. 
—The Authority of Deríthal-Vel.
 
“I had no idea Dwarfhome intercepted all [Message] spells. What was that about his axe? He did say it was unto a national treasure.”
Which he broke in Wistram. Ylawes and Falene traded glances, and she drummed her fingers on the counter.
“He never talks about it, only his story. What authorities…? I suppose whomever made the axe or let him take it? It wasn’t even enchanted, and he never let me try on it! It can’t be that valuable.”
She snorted derisively, and Pekona, who had yet to really write her message, interrupted quietly.
“It was. It was more expensive than Captain Ylawes’ sword by far.”
The half-Elf turned with a frown on her face.
“No offense to Dawil’s axe, which has saved our lives time and again, Pekona, but Ylawes has a blade that didn’t run out of magic in the New Lands.”
She cast a [Silence] spell to even say that and gestured at Ylawes.
“I’m upgrading my assessment of its power. Even if it’s not showy, that Gravesword may be low-Relic tier. Dawil’s axe cut through almost anything, but it did shatter.”
Against a super Selphid-Golem of Wistram. However, Pekona was insistent.
“It was worth more. It is a better blade than Adamantium. Not…stronger, but sharper. Better made. I’ve seen them. I used to take care of swords.”
“In Drath, you mean?”
Ylawes forestalled Falene snapping; she got touchy when people contradicted her opinions. Pekona nodded shyly.
“I only took care of Mithril and lesser swords. But once, the Emperor sent rare blades to be displayed. For the honor of trying to wield one and being worthy.”
“Worthy of a sword?”
“Mm. If it chooses you. Some have souls.”
“Souls. I’ve heard of it in Drath, but—and Dawil’s axe is akin to those?”
The half-Elf was still huffy, but she listened as Pekona nodded hesitantly.
“I saw the best blades. Some could fly and you could stand on them, or they could cut Adamantium. But there were two which had no magic. They were just…swords.”
“And? They looked like Dawil’s axe?”
“Oh, no, they were completely different. I don’t know how any of them were made.”
Ylawes was really trying to give Pekona credit here. But if they were so different and they weren’t the same material…she grew shy, then blurted out the rest.
“It’s the signature!”
“Oh, they were signed by the same person!”
Ylawes slapped his forehead and then hesitated.
“Wait, Dawil’s axe doesn’t have a signature.”
“Exactly. Pekona, my dear, maybe you’re confused? Why don’t you finish writing and then get Ylawes some soup…?”
Pekona fidgeted with her lacquer box, but she shook her head. Her voice grew smaller.
“No…you see…that is it. The swords, the great ones? They had no signatures either. So you see? If they are so high-level, so rich—I do not know the words. If they are so—so—”
“If they’re so important and can match Relic-class gear in Drath, what self-respecting [Smith] wouldn’t sign their name?”
Ylawes Byres finished slowly. He thought of every good sword he’d ever seen, from Deniusth’s violin-blade to the time he’d been allowed to see Barelle the Bard and seen him draw his own famous sword.
Every smith had a stamp, if not a name. Everyone had a way to tell those who came afterwards, ‘this is my work’. Even the Heartflame Breastplate had a sigil burned onto it in the top right corner.
A weapon without a name that cut through everything Dawil had thrown it at.
Hm. Falene blinked, and for a second, they sat there until she leaned over.
“Pekona, are you having trouble with the words? I can write if you dictate. Or even send in Drathian. I just have to look and copy.”
The [Sword Dancer] jumped and shook her head.
“I can write in my language, thank you. I just…it is hard.”
“Very well, very well…but if I may, I might need to get these [Messages] back to Dawil and Insill. More are coming, including one from Ulva Terland—here, let me get a second [Message] scroll for you. Mage!”
Falene could make anyone do what she wanted in the Mage’s Guild, so there was a second scroll for Pekona, and she was sitting there as the half-Elf hurried off. Then it was Ylawes and Pekona. And his rumbling stomach.
She was biting her lip and lingering over the scroll, and Ylawes was about to ask her about the swords when, at last, his father began to write.
 
Lord Yitton Byres: Ylawes? I was informed that your expedition with the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions had failed or been cancelled in some way. Your mother and I are quite concerned. Is this a matter that requires us to speak to our local Merchant’s Guild?
 
Ylawes started, and his stomach flopped. The Merchant’s Guild had already…? He was bending with quill to ink. I’m alive, Father! But before he could re-dip his quill and set to writing…
 
Lord Yitton Byres: House Byres is counting on your team’s support. We have reached a number of deals with backers in the north, but we must keep the silver mines open to continue to ramp up production. If we cannot compete, then the Dwarfhalls Rest Dwarves may overtake us.
Has your team found anything in the New Lands? The television claims mana is being drained there.
 
And then Ylawes didn’t know what to say.
Because…his stomach was suddenly hurting, and not for lack of funding. He sat there and then began to write.
 
Ylawes Byres: Regrettably, Father, our contract with the Consortium did have to be cut short. They were engaging in activities I felt were too dangerous and jeopardized the wellbeing of my teammates and my expedition.
Fortunately, we managed to connect with House Terland and escort them out of the New Lands. There has been some privation in the field, but we are now safe.
Regarding the Consortium, it is a difficult affair, the details of which I hope to relate to you when I return home, but I believe the Merchant’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild have accepted our explanations. We are recouping in Goisedall. Magic is indeed draining, and our team has taken some losses of equipment, but not any of personnel, thankfully.
There are some boons in the New Lands, though how many are open for exploitation, I cannot say. An [Alchemist] or other specialist might find more value there.
I understand House Byres is prospering? How is Mother? Have you heard from Yvlon?
 
He wanted to mention the Mithril blades that Pekona had found, but he felt like that was far, far too risky to reveal. He wanted to tell his father, although…
Would he sell the blades? His teammates might use them, but they were all impoverished. The blades might be useful if everyone could use them, but on the other hand, they’d make a sizable little warchest if they could be sold.
But as team captain, Ylawes doubted his share of the gold would be so high as to be that tremendous. Then his father was writing.
 
Lord Yitton Byres: I am sure you acted in accordance with your teachings to uphold House Byres and your team’s good name, Ylawes.
House Terland? Is there a connection to be called on there? Are you taking further work with them, or have they concluded their contract with your team?
I am currently dealing with House d’Artien, and Runner Delanay, in the pursuit of the common foe of House Byres. This is both an investment and an expense, but the Bloodhunters of Izril, as they are known, are a growing force with a mandate, and numerous nobles and groups have expressed support.
If you would mention House Byres silversteel in Goisedall or if you choose to return northwards, or even southwards, they may have tasks of great interest for you, but whatever contracts you are pursuing should take precedence, of course.
Ylawes Byres: We only contracted to escort the Terlands out of the New Lands, Father. The situation was rather untenable, so that was a contract primarily for sustenance. The Bloodhunters? I’m afraid I do not recall them, but I do recall Delanay with some fondness. Is he still hunting for his Vampires? (This is a joke, I hope his career as a City Runner is going well.)
Lord Yitton Byres: He has found them. You may be out of the loop, Ylawes. What kind of situation were you in to be so in need of food? I trust you are well. Your mother will be relieved to hear you are safe.
Ylawes Byres: It was rather intense. We ran out of food at times. Rest assured we are well. Delanay has found Vampires? Truly?
Lord Yitton Byres: Yes. Do you have a name of the House Terland leader you assisted?
Ylawes Byres: I believe that would be Lord Restraud who passed, but Lord Comigen Terland was the [Lord] we assisted and I believe would remember me fondly. I think Lady Ulva Terland is aware of the expedition’s fate.
Ylawes Byres: So Vampires actually exist? This is very concerning, isn’t it?
Lord Yitton Byres: Did your team conduct themselves to your high standards with the Terlands or is there some fault with Lord Restraud’s regrettable death?
Ylawes Byres: I think we could be said to have done all we could, and I do not believe Lord Comigen would speak ill of us.
Lord Yitton Byres: I understand and regret your team’s struggles. If you do contract with another expedition, please let me know at once. As I said, House Byres is attempting to establish itself in greatness once more. I believe we could become a household name once again within five years.
Ylawes Byres: I shall send what I can if our finances allow, but it is rather pressing at this moment, Father.
Lord Yitton Byres: I understand, and to your last point, your sister is in Chandrar, I believe. She was on the news, but she has not written back. If you come into contact with her, please ask her to write home.
Ylawes Byres: I shall, of course. And Ysara as well.
Lord Yitton Byres: I have not received a reply from her. I shall inform your mother you are well. Rest well, Ylawes.
 
Then they were done, and Ylawes’ head was spinning. He sat there.
Delanay actually found…? He remembered growing up with him, going on ‘Vampire Hunts’, and then getting in trouble for testing people with silver. That boy had become a fine, respectable fellow, just like Ylawes, of course, but…
Putting House Byres on the map? Ylawes didn’t have any coin to send, and he’d already—but if his father was asking, maybe—
What was that about Yvlon? Chandrar? Ylawes felt a rush of relief that she was alive, but Ysara?
He was filled with such a mix of emotions—mostly stress. It sounded like important things were happening in the north, and he had been running around in circles in the south. He almost wanted to write to his father that he had something to send back, but he didn’t.
Mostly—because Ysara began writing, and their conversation went completely differently.
 
Ysara: YLAWES. ARE YOU OKAY? I was going to pay for someone to search for you! Dawil, Falene? Your gear! The magic-drain, did it hit you?
Ylawes: We’re fine, Ysara. Goisedall.
Ysara: I know! How much did you lose?
Ylawes: Quite a lot, unfortunately.
Ysara: Dead gods. Do you need help? The economics there are insane. Qwera drove a huge caravan that way and sold out—it’s gold only, isn’t it? I don’t think I can get the Merchant’s Guild to give you money, but I might have a contact there.
Ylawes: We’re settled, Ysara. Thank you; The Wandering Inn helped.
Ysara: Of course they did. I’m only sorry I didn’t hear the rumors before you went in. How bad was it?
Ylawes: Some starvation.
Ysara: Are you in need of a [Healer]?
Ylawes: No.
Ysara: A relief! 
Ylawes: I’ve missed quite a lot in the north. I just spoke with Father, and he says something about Vampires?
Ysara: You had no idea?
Ylawes: They exist? He said silver’s in demand and that you hadn’t written back to him. And Yvlon’s in Chandrar.
Ysara: I haven’t chosen
Ysara: What I understand is
Ysara: I think I need to get on a [Communication] spell or scrying orb to speak about all of it with you. I know you’re out of mana, but if you get past Goisedall, I can send gold.
Ylawes: We should be in decent circumstances for the moment, but thank you, Ysara. We may have to do that. I am in need of dinner. But I have an inn and food.
Ysara: Of course, go! And Yvlon’s landed on her feet. They say she walked out of the sea.
Ylawes: That…sounds like her? Not sure.
Ysara: Haha. The new her. Most of my caravaners are obsessed with her. I sell a t-shirt of her, and…I’ll be heading to the New Lands too, Ylawes. Carefully. Write me if you need anything. If you need gear, I can give your team sets.
Ylawes: We should have enough. Thank you, Ysara. Truly. As for Father, he seems to need gold urgently.
Ysara: He is making gold. I think you should focus on your own team for the moment, Ylawes.
Ylawes: I see. Well, I shall talk to you as soon as I can purchase a scrying orb. 
Ysara: I’m registered, so you can call me. Go eat!
 
After that exchange, Ylawes realized nearly an hour had passed—he didn’t write fast, and between his father and sister, his hand hurt. He pushed the [Message] scroll back, and he wasn’t hungry any longer.
Mostly because he’d passed out of hunger into that sort of gnawing silence, but he felt…better. Ysara.
He’d fallen out of touch with her and remembered her being very cold a few years ago. But they’d connected a bit in Liscor—fought, really—but after Facestealer and the rest and having her write to him with clear concern…
Outfit his entire team? That was so generous of her, but they were okay. Yet maybe if they needed help…
For some reason, he still felt a bit poorly. Food. Ylawes pushed himself up and nearly fell over. This Vampire business—no, his father had it handled.
It was just—
If Ylawes tried to say it—
Yvlon was obviously out of contact and in Chandrar. She might not even know he was in the New Lands.
But he’d just sort of thought his father would be beside himself with worry.
He had been concerned! Ylawes’ mother, Shallel Byres, was definitely worried.
Just…
It wasn’t exactly like Insill’s message, or even the Authority’s reply to Dawil from home. Yitton had been businesslike, which made sense. He was a [Lord] and responsible for House Byres. That was duty, and Ylawes had never envied his father doing the important thing over being a mere warrior.
It was just a contrast. And each family was different! Ylawes handed the [Message] scroll off to a [Mage], who cleared it and sent it to the next waiting person, and was walking away when he realized he’d forgotten Pekona.
“Pekona? Are you ready to go?”
He felt like she should be ready to go, but to his surprise, she was still laboring over her [Message] scroll. She jumped and nearly knocked her inkpot over.
“Captain! I’m sorry. I’m nearly done. Nearly…”
“Do you need a hand in writing?”
He thought that was it, her lack of familiarity with the language, and she frowned slightly at him.
“I can write, Captain Ylawes.”
“Right, but if it’s taking time, Falene is going to need it…”
She shook her head and began to write faster. Ylawes went for a little walk to stretch his legs. Sometimes, Pekona got a bit touchy for reasons he didn’t understand. Other nations and their peculiarities, he supposed.
When he came back after a few minutes, Pekona was still writing when a [Message Mage] came over.
“Miss? Our booths are in high demand. Did you say you wanted Drath?”
“Yes, um, I have a [Mage]—”
Falene had gone back to the inn, so the [Message Mage] mistook Pekona looking around. The other woman spoke very slowly and loudly.
“You need to write it in Common, understand? Common, miss. It has to be legible. Understand? No foreign stuff or it’s too hard to send. Got it?”
She sounded rather—patronizing. Ylawes strode over as Pekona ducked her head.
“Yes, sorry. Almost done.”
“Excuse me, she’s with me. We have a Wistram-trained [Mage].”
“Oh, excuse me, sir! You’re the Gold-rank adventurer! She’s in your team? I’m sorry, it’s just with Drathian…”
The Drake jumped and blushed and hurried off. Ylawes sat back down.
“That was…rude.”
“Hmm? No. I’m almost done, Captain.”
Pekona was writing faster, clearly embarrassed by the interaction, and he hesitated.
“No, it was rude. Why didn’t you tell the woman she was speaking to you like you were deaf?”
“It happens a lot, Captain. It’s not worth causing a fuss.”
“But—”
“Everyone speaks to me like that, Captain. Sometimes, it’s helpful. I don’t know words often. If not, I don’t want to make trouble.”
But she didn’t deserve that! Ylawes was about to object when he realized he’d said a variation of that to Pekona. As if she couldn’t write…
He snuck a glance at her letters, and they were perfectly legible. It was Ylawes’ turn to flush.
“I, um, well, I thought I was being helpful myself, Pekona. I’m sorry. I’m thoughtless.”
She blinked at him. Eyed Ylawes’ red cheeks, then managed a smile.
“Thank you for realizing, Captain.”
They sat there, and he watched her work, relieved and ashamed. Pekona was taking some time, but she looked to be nearly done. He was about to suggest she let Falene copy it over just to save coins, but then Ylawes realized Pekona wasn’t even in a conversation. She’d taken an hour plus to labor over a message that she had written in very decent Common, if too-round and precise words, for the [Mage]. But she seemed stressed, and when he read over her shoulder…
 
From Pekona, [Sword Dancer] of Vuliel Drae, to the Archipelago of Drath. To report to the Capital in service of His Imperial Majesty of the Vigilant Isles:
This warrior of Drath begs leave to report her survival in an expedition to the New Lands of Izril. She wishes to convey her efforts in a request via the Merchant’s Guild that has ended in failure, to her shame.
She has not disgraced herself in Drath’s name, to her knowledge, and has made some small discovery of lands sunken in the New Lands, if such information is of value to the Capital. She has found some discoveries of small value from her experience as [Sword Tender] of
Her levels gained in the New Lands are a cumulative of four with the following Skill
Warrior Pekona requests news of her survival be forwarded to her village if pleasing. She has not claimed her title or achievements in relation to the Empire in any respects.
 
“I’m done. I am sorry for the delay, Captain!”
Pekona rolled the parchment up and handed it to the [Mage] as Ylawes blinked at her. She stood, cheeks flushed, and he didn’t know what to say. Only that for a moment, he felt a strange kinship with the woman from distant Drath. Because something about her missive struck him as familiar.
It was…
It sounded like an attempt to justify herself. To explain what had gone on and present her best side. Pekona’s brows were creased, and she was holding her stomach as if it hurt. She almost forgot the lacquer box she carried under one arm as they hurried out of the Mage’s Guild.
Now it was dark, and Ylawes turned to Pekona.
“I’m sorry if that was private—”
“It is not. The Capital will read it. And judge me.”
“I see. I…were you reporting your accomplishments and failures? I remember Calruz doing much the same.”
Though for him, it had seemed a bit more optional, even if he was diligent about it. Pekona stared at her feet as they walked back to the inn.
“…Yes. Not many successes. I—they do not expect much from me. Especially since this.”
She indicated her missing arm.
“The Emperor himself knows my name. But I did not show my talents like a true warrior of Drath would have. So I—my village will know I am well. How do I say it, Captain? I did not write fast even with Miss Falene because it is hard. I am embarrassed I did not do more.”
“I see.”
She walked, head hung low, and Ylawes glanced back at the Mage’s Guild.
“—That’s how it felt when I was reporting to my father. It was easier talking to my sister. But I also felt like a fool who’d disgraced himself. I…I don’t know. That was hard. It was harder than it should have been. Bull’s crap. Shit!”
He kicked at the pavement, and he was angry. She started, then glanced at him. Pekona walked a bit faster, and Ylawes wished he knew how to swear properly. Falene could swear like a drunken [Sailor] when she stubbed a toe.
“Ylawes, your father, was he concerned or…if I am being rude, I sincerely apologize.”
“No, he was. It’s just—I wanted to—I’ve always been able to report good news to him, and he seemed like he was counting on—it’s not normally like that. In person, he’s so much easier to talk to, in many ways. I’d be able to walk him through things, and I feel like I didn’t present what had gone on, because I was worried about people listening in. It’s just…embarrassing?”
“Shameful?”
“Yes!”
He pointed at her and stopped in the street. She wore a bitter smile on her face.
“That is home. If you aren’t a [Cultivator], sometimes…many people in the Capital, the ones who are important, don’t care.”
“Even though you got a sword-skill from Zeladona herself?”
“They…wanted my sword. The one Zeladona used. I sent it back. It’s a relic, now.”
“But it was your sword, and she acknowledged you. Surely that counts. They must be proud of you, right? Pekona? Right?”
Her silence was telling. Ylawes began to become a bit outraged on her behalf, but she just pointed.
“Do you need food, Captain?”
“Argh, yes. Let’s talk in the inn. My sausage had better be there or I’m going to kill Dawil.”
“It was.”
He hoped she was right, Pekona hefted her box as he almost ran back to the Seafarer’s Catch only to be given the worst news of his entire life:
He’d missed dinner.
 
——
 
They were out of soup. Out of bread, and his sausage was gone. Ylawes Byres stood in the doorway as Gliva checked the kitchen, but…
“We served everything we had, Captain. And everyone else ate it. I did warn you, when food’s out, it’s out for the night.”
“But my bowl…”
Falene had taken him his portion, but some bastard had stolen it. The horrified half-Elf was casting around as Pekona tried to elbow forwards.
“Captain, I have—”
“Dawil took it!”
“I did not! Pointy, you idiot, I thought you brought him food!”
“Someone stole—Miss Gliva, can we not get something more?”
“I’m sorry, the [Cook]’s done for the night. I could try to find something, but—”
Ylawes was starving by now, and he stared around and had one thought.
“Poke Duo. They’ve got food. I’ll just—don’t worry, Falene. I’ll just head out, get them, and—”
Dawil rose to his feet.
“Hold on, lad. We’ll get you something.”
“No, no, they’ve got food. Let me just—”
“Ylawes, wait, I’ll go with—argh, [Message] for Anith!”
“Captain! I have—”
Ylawes had to leave the inn because he was so upset about not having food that if he stayed a moment longer he’d start swearing, and it was no one’s fault.
Just his own.
 
——
 
Damn City Runners interrupting his meal.
Damn soup thieves!
Damn Falene for not realizing she had to keep hold of it!
Damn his father for bothering him without even the decency to care for—
Ylawes caught himself as he stomped down the street. That was unworthy of him. He was just mad and pissed because he was hungry. He just had to get to Poke Duo and…
 
——
 
…They were out of food. The horrified Cave Goblin and Antinium poked their heads out of their shelter.
“You not eat, Captain!?”
“Y-you don’t have any food? None? But we had rations.”
The two young [Adventurers] were shifting. Infinitytpear shuffled his feet.
“We saw other campers who were crying from hunger, Captain. So, with Captain Nailren’s supervision, we gave them food.”
“Yah. Sorry.”
“You fed people who didn’t have any?”
Ylawes saw a few other campfires out on the open ground and more figures who didn’t even have that. In fact, Rasktooth pointed.
“Captain Nailren, he helping make fire from grass. And shit.”
“And stuff, you mean.”
“No, and shit. Cow shit is very burny. Who knew? Not me. We very sorry.”
Ylawes just stood there as his stomach realized it was not going to be fed and decided his spine was the first to go. But he forced a smile.
“You fed hungry people, Poke Duo? Never apologize for that. I’ll be fine. It’s just a night. There might be scraps in the inn. I just came here because I wanted to save gold. And I’ve got some. I’ll head into the city.”
“You want us to find food?”
“At this time of night? No, no. You two rest up. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. I’ll be…”
Ylawes stumbled as he turned back to the city, and Poke Duo began to rise from their burrow. But then Pekona caught up, panting.
“Captain, there you are!”
Rasktooth sniffed the air and held out a hand as Infinitypear began to get out.
“Brother, what if Captain Ylawes dies of hunger?”
“Eh, he not die, Peary. You wait. He okay.”
Rasktooth relaxed as he glanced at Pekona. And the box under her arm.
 
——
 
Ylawes was stomping into Goisedall, so hungry he was staring at every passing inn and building—and the prices—and wondering if he could justify any of it. He was so hungry he’d pay for it, but the gold.
We have to ration it. I’m stupid. Dead gods damn it all, I’m so—
“Captain, Captain—I have something for you.”
Pekona. He wanted to tell her to get lost because he was about to embarrass himself by paying a fortune for a meal. Ylawes glared at her then realized she’d cut her meal shorter too. He exhaled.
“How hungry are you, Pekona?”
“I had some soup, Captain. I’m—”
Hurrrblgrr! Her stomach made her turn bright red, and Ylawes groaned. Two starving souls close to death. But Pekona had that…
“What is that box?”
“This? It’s from home.”
It was a red, lacquered box with a little latch on the front and a design of flowers on the back. It was chipped and worn from being knocked about, but it seemed lovingly cared for. And Pekona was eying it as she held it out to him.
“For you.”
“For me? Thank you, but—”
Ylawes really didn’t care what the hell was in the box until he flipped it open, saw two sausages, a piece of bread, and the biscuit from the Merchant’s Guild, then closed it. He glanced around, stared at Pekona, and saw it.
She’d taken his sausage. And saved it! And, it seemed—had saved part of her own meal and the other food in it!
“F-for me?”
“I did not know if you had food, Captain, so I—here.”
Pekona handed him the box, and he almost handed it right back.
“No, that’s your food! Pekona, this is so thoughtful. We should share it with Rasktooth and Infinitypear—”
He instantly turned back to go back to Poke Duo, and Pekona’s face fell. She cleared her throat as Ylawes imagined splitting this bounty four ways.
“I—um—they already ate! And Young Master Rasktooth won’t get hungry because of his class. You should eat, Captain. You keep giving away food, and you’ll starve without.”
She…she was very compelling when she said that. Ylawes blinked at Pekona and eyed the box.
Two sausages and bread and the biscuit. Had he ever eaten as well as…? His mouth watered as he imagined savoring each bite of it.
“I—you may be right, Pekona. Let’s go back to the inn. Or find somewhere to sit.”
Somewhere no one would snatch it from him. He eyed the passersby as if each one were a [Master Thief] and he was holding the Helmet of Fire. They eyed him warily. Then Ylawes slowed.
“Wait, what did you call Rasktooth?”
Young Master? He glanced back at Pekona with mild hilarity. She turned bright red as she tried to explain something about Rasktooth’s ‘great potential’, and Ylawes, who didn’t understand all this ‘cultivation’ stuff, listened to a weird explanation about how classes worked in Drath. He shook his head, bemused.
“This cultivation stuff…it seems like a lot of foreign nonsense to me, Pekona.”
“Oh. Yes, Captain Ylawes.”
She went abruptly silent as he passed by restaurants and slowed. He had some coin. What if he bought a meal as well as ate the food? It wasn’t a full plate, and he was hungry…
Ylawes’ hand went to his belt pouch. He stared at a menu advertising fresh pork in that inn that Lord Comigen had tried.
Dead gods. Six gold per…he saw Pekona’s head was bowed and glanced at her. Realized she had halted behind him.
“I, ah, might get something to eat on top of what you brought me. Should we get something for the others? We could get pork if they have some.”
“As you say, Captain Ylawes.”
He didn’t get why she’d fallen silent. The [Knight] led the way inside, and a Drake had to check his gold before saying yes, they had some pork left, and wine, fresh from Cellidel, don’t you know, just arrived; if they wanted it, they had to order now. Ylawes put down twelve gold pieces, and they had a table before he could get another word in. Then Pekona was sitting blank-faced with him, shoulder-to-shoulder because plenty of people were here just to rest.
He felt…like she was awkward, which made him awkward, so Ylawes cleared his throat.
“Commendable, though.”
“Hmm?”
“This cultivator stuff. It’s fascinating, but foreign. Nothing like I understand.”
“It is just how Drath is, Captain. I did not mean to be rude in speaking out of turn.”
He waved his hands, under the impression they’d gotten off on the wrong foot somewhere.
“Rude? No, not at all. As I said, it’s interesting, but it sounds like nonsense.”
“Yes, sir, I apologize.”
She averted her gaze, and Ylawes felt like something was still wrong. He tried again.
“Good nonsense. Incomprehensible! Like Falene always talks about with her magic. That’s what I meant. Or when Dawil gets into Dwarfhome politics. I’m not one for any of it, but if it helps you, or Rasktooth, that’s excellent.”
“Oh.”
For just a second, Pekona peeked up at him from her dark bangs, and Ylawes felt like she was relieved. Which implied he’d done something wrong.
“I hope I haven’t offended you. I just meant it was very esoteric, that’s all.”
He was distracted as the Drake put down a platter of rather thin slices of meat anchored to sticks. Fried pork glistening with fat. In any other city, Ylawes would have said he was being ripped off; the slices were so thin as to be insulting. But it was pork…
His mouth watered, and he saw other people staring at him. We’ll never take this out of the restaurant without being mobbed. He hesitated, and Pekona’s mouth was watering too.
“Captain, it may be difficult to hide…”
“Just have—have a bite, Pekona. Um, and I didn’t mean to offend you…”
They ate the first skewer so fast Ylawes was licking at his fingers when she managed a reply.
“It sounded a bit—a bit—no, nevermind, Captain.”
“Go on, a bit what?”
She hesitated a long time as she stared at another pork skewer, but when he indicated it, she took it and spoke.
“A bit insulting. A-as if you thought Drathian classes and ways were barbaric and stupid.”
“What? It did?”
Ylawes was so shaken he didn’t reach for his second skewer as he stared at her. Flushed, she turned.
“I did not want to say—”
“If I sounded like that at all, I apologize! I only meant—dead gods, did I say that? I only meant foreign nonsense as in how my father said it! You know, like Chandrarian customs or—or—Pekona, I sincerely regret my words!”
Ylawes was bowing over the table, so flustered she grew embarrassed as people turned to her. She shoved a skewer at him as the Drake [Server] came back.
“Everything alright, sir, lady? I have some wine…”
It was well-watered, but the mug of it was practically hedonistic as Ylawes sipped it. His body interpreted any sweets, any food, as energy, and he gulped at it as Pekona did likewise. He flushed harder as she spoke.
“Sometimes, it sounds like how—how some outsiders see Drath. As if we’re all primitive fishers eating raw fish on beaches. They don’t know our cities or anything—they say it like that. Barbarian. Illiterate savages. Because we don’t know Common. We have other languages.”
His heart sank at the expression on her face, which she tried to hide by turning her head. Ylawes’ head bowed.
“I…I sincerely regret my words. Pekona. My father—no, I take full responsibility for them. I did not mean any slight upon Drath at all. How could I? I barely know anything of Drath. You have an [Emperor], you eat with sticks, and you have…rice…”
She wore another pained expression as he babbled, and Ylawes knew he was sinking in quicksand, like Dawil and Falene sometimes said he was doing when he introduced himself to other ladies. But he could only say what he believed. It was his curse, so he finished lamely.
“Who am I to judge another people without knowledge of them? Your [Sword Dancer] class and techniques are exotic to my eyes. I have so much to learn from your style, and you have such a knowledge of blades I lack—look at what we found in the place in the New Lands.”
Conscious of the eyes upon him, he didn’t reference the Mithril, but he saw her pause. And her head rose a bit.
“You think my class is good, Captain? But you’re higher-level than me…”
“I can tell when your level of finesse exceeds mine, Pekona. And I think it does, levels or not. I was trained in a very direct method of [Knight] fighting. It may even lag behind Terandrian [Knight] training since they have so much institution…you fight so gracefully, even with one arm. I cannot imagine how you did with two. Levels are not everything.”
He said exactly what he meant, and when she appeared so mystified, even tearful, he floundered. So he called for another round of meat skewers, and it came with some wine, and they ate.
“I…I do not know what to say, Captain. Not many people appreciate my…uniqueness. Even my team, sometimes, had problems, but they are kind. It is hard. Sometimes, I feel like Prince Zenol’s team. Even if he is from another land, and a [Prince], he understood.”
“Zenol? That brave fellow? How could anyone denigrate him?”
Ylawes was so genuinely mystified it was Pekona’s turn to eye him.
“You do not think he is—savage or different?”
“He’s certainly abrasive and a character that might be hard to deal with, but at the Village of the Dead, I saw him take on that Lich Circle alone. Thinking he’d die. That’s a man I’d trust with my life at any moment. He saved my sister, Yvlon, and her team from fighting them. Who’d dare to insult him?”
Ylawes got angry just imagining it. It was Pekona who gave him a wide-eyed gaze, then hid a smile with one hand.
“Captain. You are a very silly man. But a good one.”
“Everyone tells me that. Even Rasktooth.”
He sighed as he took a sip from his wine. The world was spinning ever-so-slightly, and he realized he was drunk.
Dead gods, had he had more than a cup of wine? Or maybe it was being so hungry. Ylawes usually never had more than a single drink at meals—he slipped up sometimes, but sobriety was a good quality to have. That was Proper Living, as his father had taught him, and well he’d been mightily tempted to have that second cup many times. He’d often failed in his resolve, to his chagrin the next day.
But he couldn’t remember if this was his second cup that the inn had given him or his third. How many meat skewers had he had?
“We were supposed to bring this to the others.”
“We’ll get jumped, Captain.”
“True, but doing the right thing no matter what is what you have to do. Every time. No matter what. That’s the House Byres way.”
It was so simple. No one got it. Even Yvlon, even Ysara seemed to not understand. Life was so damn simple. Do the right thing each time. So why…
Why did it sometimes feel like that wasn’t what you got rewarded for? Why did it seem like terrible men and women got awarded for doing the opposite?
Ylawes thought of the Consortium of Enterprise, and his head sank as he sat with Pekona.
“I tried to do the right thing, Pekona. But it turned out the right thing wasn’t what I agreed to and that breaking one vow was for the best. I’m so sorry. I’ve ruined all our fortunes.”
“No you didn’t, Captain.”
Then they were sitting and their stomachs? Still rumbling. It was then that Ylawes felt something under one arm and he remembered.
The box.
He’d been so distracted by insulting Pekona—he put it on the table, flipped the lid, and they salivated at the second course. Even the server did a double-take when he passed by with a refill of wine. Pekona’s face visibly fell.
“You go ahead, Captain.”
“No, no, you take a sausage, and I’ll take this one. We’ll split the bread. You’re just as hungry as I am, Pekona.”
She hesitated, then snatched her share as he folded the sausage in a piece of bread and took a bite. No hot dog Erin had ever served had tasted so fine…in this or any other world. That wasn’t so much a, uh, commentary on his hunger as hot dogs in general.
But still.
Ylawes sat there, and all was well in the world. He was so close to tears…but when he forced himself to take small bites of the meal, to let it linger, especially because his stomach, used to privation, was actually hurting from all this richness, he turned to Pekona.
And he realized he’d not only done her a grave disservice, but he was so profoundly grateful to her. She was brushing her hair back over one round ear, then took a cautious bite of the sausage, cheeks smudged with dirt and grime, and he wondered when she’d had time to put on makeup.
Because she was rather alluring. Falene, of course, was always impeccable, but Pekona…
“Thank you for bringing the box and finding me, Pekona. You’re so conscientious. Twice, now, you’ve saved me from myself, it feels like. First with the Terlands, and now this.”
He meant the Mithril swords. She jumped, blushed.
“I just thought to bring food, Captain. It’s a box from home. Um, bento—it’s one of the other languages. Other ideas, from my cultures. The foreign nonsense ones.”
He turned bright red, and she lifted her hand and arm stump.
“I don’t mean that! Only—”
“No, no, I deserve that. Are they in aid of something or…?”
“It’s just a box. You put rice in it, and it has compartments—”
It was essentially a fancy lunch pail, but Ylawes liked the look of it. It certainly beat an old bag with a sandwich swinging around the inside. He kept eating as he tried to express what he meant.
“I just—I’ve only known my teammates. You’re one of the only other adventurers I’ve actually partied with long-term. Which is strange, I know, but most teams think mine is ridiculous. They don’t like working for free, or we just have differences.”
Like the Horns and the Silver Swords had never meshed. But Pekona’s team had done very well. She glanced down at her hand.
“We don’t slow you down, Captain? Even with…?”
She indicated her missing arm, and he shook his head.
“No, no! You don’t have the same levels as us, but Poke Duo practically carried us in the wilds. And your Skills in combat—! I mean it, you’re a better swordswoman than I am. I feel like I haven’t appreciated the strengths of my teammates. It took this expedition for me to see I was just the highest-level fighter. Not all-knowing. That’s Gold-ranker bias for you.”
He needed to let each member take lead. For instance, Anith seemed very worldly and knowledgeable. Like how Falene was their magic-user. Pekona tilted her head.
“What am I good at, though, Captain?”
“Well, swords, obviously.”
“And?”
“And…knowing when not to give away too much and prioritize?”
“And?”
“Uh—and—your charms?”
“What about Dasha?”
“Dasha? Well, I respect her beard maintenance, and she’s a solid backup, and, uh—”
He was floundering when he suddenly saw her hide a slight smile.
“You’re teasing me!”
She grew embarrassed and turned in her seat. Ylawes grinned as he took the remaining bite of his meal. She did have a sense of humor and opinions!
“Actually, that’s something you could do more of. Say your opinions, Pekona. They’re often good, but you’ve been, what, shy? Whenever you point something out, like that thing with Dawil’s axe, it’s insightful. I appreciate hearing from you.”
“Really? I’m not good with words, so I don’t speak much.”
Another peek from her long black hair hanging down in bangs. Ylawes wondered if her entire nation looked like her. He couldn’t imagine it. The only person like Pekona he’d ever met was Ryoka, but the two were rather different. Ryoka didn’t have Pekona’s accent, and she was a bit darker-skinned than the Drathian woman, and taller.
But Pekona had far, far better posture. She sat with her back straight, knees forwards, hand in her lap, and Ylawes appreciated that because most people had bad posture. He sat tall in his seat, just like he’d been taught, and both noticed the other’s attention to etiquette.
Then it felt like they had nothing to say. He thanked her, she said he was a good [Captain], and repeat until you were out of things to say. But—Ylawes felt like—he wanted to say something more.
He just didn’t know what. He wished Dawil were here. The Dwarf was extraordinarily good with the ladies. Or Falene. He was so used to his companions with him he didn’t know what to say to Pekona, who was still slightly a stranger. So he blurted out—
“I’m sorry I keep offending you. I really didn’t mean to say that about your culture.”
“I know, Captain. You’re not a bad man.”
“Oh, but I am.”
He gazed at his plate, and it was empty. Damn. Then he glanced up. Pekona sat there, staring at him.
“Captain, you’re the last person who’d be found guilty of being a bad man.”
“Ah, you say that, Pekona, but you don’t know how wretched I am. I put on a good face, but I don’t know what I’m doing. I’m selfish, greedy, arrogant—”
He waved a finger at her. She grabbed it and closed his hand.
“No. I think you are, sometimes. But each time I look, you’re like…a Mithril blade. The stains are only on the surface. Dig down and it shines too bright.”
“That sounds like a compliment, but I don’t deserve it.”
He sulked. Annoyed with how charitable she was being because that was his thing. Then he peered into the bento box.
“Oh. We’re out of food. Except the biscuit. You have it.”
“No, you—”
“How about we split it?”
He broke it into pieces because they’d done this dance before and offered it to her. She was demurring.
“I’m fine, Captain.”
“Ah, no, see? I can tell you’re hungry. Here. Just take a bite—”
He tried to poke it into her mouth, and she dodged his hand. She started giggling as he leaned over the table, and he was reaching out with the biscuit when she nearly bumped into a patron. She recoiled, and he ended up almost on top of her. He poked her mouth delicately with the biscuit, and then—
He was eating his, she was munching on hers, and why were they red-faced? Perhaps because, Ylawes thought to himself…
I’m being indecorous. She’s a teammate of mine! A subordinate! I shouldn’t.
On the other hand…he heard a rather Captain Todi-like voice in his head.
You’ve never shot your quarrel before. The lady brought you food when she was starving. You should try it.
No. Before marriage? But then again, adventurers were always telling stories, and even if only 10% of them were actually true…
Ylawes blurted something out too fast.
“Um, Pekona. Have I ever said you’re one of the most attractive women I’ve ever met?”
Pekona choked on her biscuit. A passing [Waitress]’ head turned, and she went crashing into a chair and hit an entire table with a Winebomb Striker. A table of diners turned around and stared.
Ylawes saw none of it. He had gone cold, then red hot, and he felt like he’d just challenged a Named-ranker to a duel with a stick.
I’m a fool! An idiot! Even he knew there was more tact than—
“Um, I—thank you, C—Ylawes.”
Pekona coughed and drank some water hurriedly. Ylawes opened his mouth. Tact. Polish, not whatever—he could practically feel Dawil kicking him. But nothing for it other than…
“I’m sorry. I realize that sounds very forwards. I just…it’s something I do feel, and I’m rather taken with your—it must be the wine. I do apologize, and if it’s unwelcome, let’s say no more of it and I’ll behave myself. If you want to talk to Anith, I understand.”
He began to stand and felt like such a fool. Where did they go from here? If it was unwelcome—Pekona gasped, then jumped up.
“No! Don’t go! I—I like your hair. Can I touch it?”
She blurted that out, and he blinked. Every head swung back to Ylawes.
“My hair…?”
“No one has hair like it in Drath. I wanted to touch Falene’s hair, but it’s very rude. So I…is it dyed? Even dyed hair doesn’t look like that.”
Utterly bemused, Ylawes sat down. Scooted over. And let her feel his hair.
“Oh, it’s real!”
“Yes. There’s no blond hair in Drath?”
“White hair. Magic hair. Floating red hair that blows in the wind behind female [Cultivators] like a sea of reeds and gets in your mouth when stray hairs float off. But no, not this.”
No blond people in Drath. Pekona ruffled Ylawes’ hair up, then stared into his eyes. She turned bright red and scooted back.
“I—um—you—I think you’re very kind, Captain. You never make fun of my accent or me not knowing things. Or anything. And you have lots of muscles.”
Muscles, now? Ylawes thought he was thin and said so, but Pekona’s lips had sealed up. The Drake [Server] came back with another round.
“More drinks, sir, ma’am?”
“Oh, we didn’t pay for—”
“On the house.”
He vanished, and Pekona sipped her drink and gulped. Then blurted out.
“Most [Cultivators]…don’t have big muscles. Or arms or legs. Because it’s all compressed. Galas-muscle.”
“They get that even at lower-levels?”
Ylawes was dismayed. Pekona nodded rapidly.
“You have very…flexible muscles. Like Sinew Magus Grimalkin. Or Dawil. Especially your legs.”
She stared down at his quads or whatever Grimalkin called them, and Ylawes flexed them. He did a few times as Pekona stared, and she put her hand on them and then…
“I, uh, I confess, your dancing is amazing. But I have trouble copying the forms, even if I was that flexible.”
“Really? Because…”
“Well, because it’s hard to take my eyes off of you. Which I haven’t been doing often! I just—did I mention your personality?”
At some point, he recalled being told that a [Lady]’s body was not the only virtue by which she desired being complimented, but Pekona didn’t seem to mind.
“Even with my…missing arm?”
He glanced at it, and she tried to turn away, but Ylawes reached out.
“May I?”
She let him touch the stump of her arm and flinched, but he just exhaled.
“I’m so sorry I wasn’t there at the Village of the Dead. I saw that duel…you lost it fighting a legend.”
“I was unworthy.”
“Zeladona didn’t think so. And she ignored me and so many others. When I saw that, I knew I had made the right call hiring you all. I knew it after Facestealer, but that just confirmed it. Even if Falene and Dawil don’t say so—you’re chosen. In a way, we’re all a bit intimidated by you.”
“Me? Chosen? Instead of the Silver Swords? You’re joking.”
“No. No, Pekona. We’ve been…heroic, I guess. We know we get attention, and we like being the good guys. We know our reputation, and it’s fine. Everyone thinks we’re oblivious, but we get it. Falene, Dawil, and I get selfish and arrogant. But we’ve never been…you.”
“Me?”
They were gazing into each other’s eyes, and her brown ones seemed to drink his in. She had a crumb on her cheek as he brushed it away.
“We’ve never been riding across the sky of Izril, like the Horns of Hammerad. Never stood as the [Blademistress of Ancients] pointed at us. Never stood in front of an army with a white flag. I think it’s a bit of intimidation, with the Horns. Even though we’re older and have been adventuring longer, they’re ahead and that scares us because we might be missing what they have. The thing that keeps us from being Named-ranks. A bit of—madness.”
“So I’m crazy and you like that?”
“No, I—”
He was fumbling it again! Ylawes closed his eyes and felt a brush of something on his cheeks. He recoiled.
“What was—”
“Oh, a fly.”
Pekona clapped her hand at something over his right shoulder, and he stared at her. Past her, at an open-mouthed Drake. Ylawes turned his head—an entire group of men and women turned with wine cups in hand. He glanced around.
“What fly? Was that—”
“It’s right there.”
He twisted his head and felt it again. Just a brief touch of lips on the back of his n—the [Server] was staring at Ylawes, and the [Knight] whirled.
Pekona sat there, innocently sipping at her cup. Bright red. Ylawes Byres paused, and he might have been a [Knight] and sometimes, as Dawil liked to point out, a fool.
But he was no Tyrion Veltras. Then again, Tyrion Veltras had been a married man. So Ylawes Byres thought and then spoke.
“Pekona, I’m going to make absolutely sure of something. If I’m wrong, stop me.”
“Okay, Ylawes…?”
He reached out and took her free hand. Turned it over as she and everyone waited. Then slowly, exaggeratedly slowly, raised it to his face, inspected her palm. Blew on her fingers as she twitched. Turned it over.
Kissed the back of her hand. His eyes were on her face the entire time.
Pekona didn’t stop him. But she did go silent, and when he kissed her hand, she jumped back and—
“Right, was that unw—”
“No!”
Silence, now. Was the inn supposed to be silent with it being full? The [Knight] didn’t know, but he was sitting next to her. And she was drinking water—
Then she began hiccuping.
Hic. Hic. Hic—
She couldn’t stop. The moment grew worse as Pekona tried, turned redder, and Ylawes handed her more water.
“Here, drink from it backwards.”
She spilled water on herself. Someone handed her some salt.
“Put it on your tongue.”
“Dead gods, no, you just hop up and down—”
“Hold your breath for a minute! That settles it down.”
Oh, Ylawes had heard that. Pekona took a deep breath, and everyone fell silent again. The [Knight] sat there, glancing at her as the seconds passed oh so slowly. Then he bent down.
“Pekona…”
They were sitting across from each other, far too close. Ylawes stared into her eyes, and then he gazed at her severed arm. He saw the clean, very clean scar running across the skin. Pekona was watching him, nervous, eyes flicking to her own arm.
“I know it makes me worse at…everything. But I have to keep trying—”
“It doesn’t make you worse. I admire your courage. I don’t know if I could be that brave in your place.”
“You have been, though?”
She wrinkled her face up, confused, and he blinked at her.
“Maybe—sometimes. But I see it easier in other people. Like you. I rather admire you, Pekona.”
He took her hand and drew closer. The hiccuping had stopped at some point, and she exhaled and spoke.
“I think we’re drunk. And maybe lonely from the road. It happens at sea.”
“Right. I’ve heard of that too. Adventurers on long quests.”
These were fine, salient observations. Ylawes could recite a list of reasons why this wasn’t a good idea, but he really wanted to…
Their lips met, and they kissed, and he forgot everything for a little bit. Aches, pains, doubts—he only remembered they were in a public inn when she sat back in her chair. He leaned forwards to try that again, and she put her hand on his chest. Her voice was a bit breathless, but she glanced around and whispered.
“If you kiss me one more time, it cannot be in public.”
He stared at her, and his mind analyzed that statement up, down, sideways, and backwards. And it was an attractive backwards. He licked his lips, took a deep drink of wine.
“Okay, I—hic.”
He started hiccuping. Ylawes tried to say something.
“Drat it—hic—just—hic—”
She started giggling at him as he had to hold his breath. And then…they were staring at each other as the Drake [Server] came over.
“Ah, sir, madam. I have a bill. Would that be separate or tog—thank you, sir. And for the tip! And I just would like to mention that you’ve been splendid guests. We do, in fact, have a room upstairs. If you’d like it, it’d be twelve g—”
The gold pieces appeared out of Ylawes’ belt pouch. Ten from him, two from Pekona, and he tried to shove hers back. She shoved one of his back and added another of hers.
He couldn’t talk as his chest convulsed in a silent hiccup—and the Drake coughed.
“This way, sir and madam—”
Then they were heading upstairs. Not as drunk on the well-watered wine as you might think. On other things? Ylawes was still holding his breath. Wait! He’d utterly forgotten the Adventurer’s Assistants!
Always have a damn piece of sheepskin and a bit of string, you fool! Sage Todi was roaring in Ylawes’ head, and he remembered Crossbow Stan. No good adventurer went into battle without a second quarrel—
He had to say something. But Pekona was inspecting the little washbasin and bed, and she turned to him and…
“Pekona, I—”
He let out his breath, then lost all of it. Mostly because she met him, and he was so breathless for lack of oxygen as they kissed in the center of the room he had to sit down on the bed. And then…
He didn’t manage to get up until the next day.
 
——
 
And then—
Well—
You heard stories, but dead gods. He’d thought that was just adventurer talk. Ylawes Byres was not so drunk as to not realize what was going on or the need for silence given the very, very busy inn around him. But nevertheless—
Dead gods.
He had one last thought after he was lying there, panting, and had a sudden panic attack.
He wasn’t even married. Ylawes sat bolt upright, wondered what his mother would say, then collapsed backwards. Too pleased to really, uh, quibble with that. Then they were giggling, and asking if it was good for the other, and—
They had that in common. The two began to kiss again when people began kicking the walls, door, and stomping on the ceiling telling them, ‘congrats on joining the adult population now shut up, it was 5 AM and it was getting old.’
Exactly what that meant they didn’t understand until later.
 
——
 
In the morning, Captain Ylawes Byres wondered what the hell he’d been doing all his adult life. For a moment.
Then the shame hit him, the thought that he’d spent himself before marriage, and he clutched at his hair.
You fool, Ylawes Byres! He groaned as he sat up in bed and coincidentally saw someone else doing the exact same thing.
Pekona. She jumped when he looked at her and grabbed the sheets.
“I—”
“I’m sorry, was I churlish or did you—”
She looked like she was regretting it, and his heart sank instantly. Pekona shook her head wildly.
“No it was—good! I just—I was supposed to wait until—”
“Marriage?”
They stared at each other and realized the instantaneous night-after guilt was written across both faces. Pekona blinked, then bit her lip. Ylawes’ smile was guilty, but it was joined by a moment of hilarity.
“You too?”
“I thought it was only home. Most adventurers—”
“Right. I’m so sorry.”
“What? Why?”
“I’m your Captain and a higher-ranking adventurer and—we’ve both lost our chastity!”
He felt like it mattered for her more than him, but it was bad either way. Pekona shook her head a few times, gesturing at her arm.
“Who would want to marry…and it’s fine. I wanted to. You did too. Right?”
“Well, yes. After the New Lands, I thought to hell with…but I feel bad now. Even if it was—”
They stared at each other, then Pekona laughed. She lay back softly. He awkwardly stood, since suddenly he was self-conscious about being in bed with someone else, and after a moment, Pekona stared at the ceiling.
“We were out all night. Our teams.”
“Oh, Silver Dragon flying—our teams! If they don’t think we were mugged or stayed out with Rasktooth and Infinitypear, then—!”
Suddenly, the realization of what they’d done hit Ylawes in an even more personal way, and he was rushing around, grabbing his clothing. Pekona leapt out of bed too, and he turned to stare at—
“Don’t look!”
She threw a pillow in his face, and he was blushing crimson by the time they scrambled out of their room. She whispered as they walked downstairs, trying to be quiet.
“Just act normal. This is very normal in Izril, right?”
“Sure. Of course. Allegedly, or so I’ve heard.”
That’s right, they were two adults, and no one knew that had been an important night. Why, they could be any longstanding couple. He tried to casually walk out the inn as the breakfasters in the common room glanced up. Pekona adjusted her belt, staring ahead at nothing in particular.
They were almost out when someone in the common room that had gone quiet at their arrival breathed.
“Whew. Some night. That’s adventurers for you, eh?”
The two ran, too afraid to look back as the laughter and clapping began. The cheering followed them out of the inn, and only when they were a hundred paces away did Ylawes’ mind finally engage, and he thought—
Dead gods, I’m not even married. But neither was she!
And—
What will my team say?
They were in it now. When he turned to Pekona and saw her covering her face with one hand, they peeked at each other and—Ylawes slowed and almost regretted leaving that room. After all, they’d probably paid it out till eleven.
“I, um, if you want to pretend it never happened—I’m going to have a very difficult time. I’m rather besotted.”
“I don’t know what that means, but I like you. A lot. What do we do?”
She stopped, and they were so close in the street, side-by-side, that he could put an arm around her and kiss her, like he’d imagined doing so long, and then do that again and…
Someone whistled at them, and Pekona kicked off one of his legs into a flying backflip away. Ylawes spun, and an open-mouthed Drake [Sailor] stared at them. They backed up from him, wordlessly, and he saw the Seafarer’s Catch in the distance.
Our teams! He turned to Pekona.
“Er, play it cool.”
That’s how you did it, right? What was cool? He didn’t even have a ring. He had to tell his mother—no, no, it was just one night, you don’t have to do that. Even so, was she the one? It felt like she was the one—
…How was he going to face his team? They had to know what had happened last night.
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres was no stranger to team dynamics. He had committed…not the cardinal sin of adventuring. That was probably killing your team. The next-worst one was probably stealing loot. And the third-worst one was…probably sleeping with someone else’s lover.
And the fourth-worst one was switching out your healing potions for rat poison, but somewhere on that list of adventurer-sins was sleeping with another teammate.
It brought complexities into the adventure. One could survive it, and there were plenty of couples who arose in the course of adventuring, but, uh, they didn’t tend to last. Only famous duos like the Champions of the Coast endured.
Plus, Ylawes was Gold-rank and Pekona was Silver-rank. He was the Captain! For so many reasons, this had been a bad idea, and he was ready for this to become an issue when he pushed the door open to the Seafarer’s Catch and saw Falene and Dawil and all his teammates sitting there—
“Hoi, lad! Finally got some food in you, eh? You must have been out late finding grub. How was sleeping in a hole with Poke Duo?”
Dawil shouted, and Ylawes’ stiffening shoulders, his not-quite-fabricated lie, and Pekona’s tensing to run—turned into an almost-natural wave.
“Oh, right! We had some food, and it transpired Pekona had saved me some of dinner! I’m sorry, we couldn’t bring snacks.”
“Snacks? We slept like rocks after eating! You’re just in time for breakfast! Get over here.”
Dawil was so relaxed and good-natured that Ylawes realized the Dwarf didn’t suspect a thing. He sat down, and Pekona almost sat with him when Falene jerked her head.
“Pekona. Why don’t you have a seat with us? We have a busy day ahead of us, Ylawes.”
She was eating some porridge as Pekona wavered, then sat next to Ylawes. Dawil grunted.
“Falene’s right. I think we’re not going to stay another day here. Nailren’s probably heading back, but let’s link up with him, eh? Hit the Mage’s Guild, maybe, see if the inn’s got anything for us? And thank them. Then check a map and head east. Adventurer’s Guild for work, too.”
“That, uh, sounds like a plan.”
Ylawes relaxed as Falene pushed some scones onto the table. She was busy with her food, and the rest of Vuliel Drae were chattering noisily. Pekona and he locked gazes, then pretended all was well, and it was perfect.
Ylawes was so relieved he didn’t see Dawil chewing on his beard.
 
——
 
Since Falene would explode if she had to see the two flirting, Dawil suggested they take care of business that morning, and the lad, well, the lad did his best.
He was not subtle. Suddenly, he and Pekona were glued to the hip, and he was a lot more…looky than before. At her. At Pekona’s body and assets.
Not that he was a saint, actually. He was Human like anyone else, but he’d always been so politely refined that most gorgeous, incredible women had taken one look at his knightly resolve and chatted up Dawil or even Falene before thinking they had a chance with him.
Which, fair, the Dwarf wasn’t going to complain about that. Nor about this, even if it was a bad idea. However, if Falene didn’t throw a Tier 4 spell at the table—and there was still a chance of that—the Dwarf thought their teams might continue without the blowup.
He’d done his best the moment it was clear neither Ylawes nor Pekona were coming back and Insill hadn’t seen them at Poke Duo’s camp. Dawil had made it very clear to everyone that there were normal, nay, natural reasons for two adventurers not to return to the inn, and that like responsible, reasonable adults, they’d let it lie, eh?
Falene said not a word through breakfast, but when she saw Pekona eying Ylawes from the side—the [Sword Dancer] caught her eye, flinched, and went very still.
“Falene.”
“What, Dawil?”
They were walking into the Mage’s Guild as Dawil gnawed on his beard. Dead gods, he wished he’d apprenticed himself to Lord Pellmia. This might get—really bad. Falene had been holding a torch for Ylawes since practically the day they’d met. It hadn’t been a huge one that overshadowed everything but—
Stay the course. Dawil couldn’t even really blame Ylawes after all the stress they’d been under. If Anith had turned to Dawil after they’d come out of the New Lands and tried to kiss him, Dawil would have—
Hmm. The Dwarf considered that stray thought for a second, analyzed it…and decided he was going to do absolutely nothing with it.
They were on a tightrope. And the lad…
The lad did not make things better. He was honest, goodhearted, and when Dawil read over his shoulder as they sat, sending [Messages] in the Guild, he wondered if Falene was going to shoot a [Fireball] point-blank. Because if she did, none of them were so high-level they could take it for granted they’d survive it.
This is what Ylawes wrote, and Falene definitely saw it:
 
Ylawes: Father, I’m going to seek more work around Goisedall, and I cannot contribute to House Byres at this moment, as I need to rebuild my team’s finances. I hope you understand, and I would like to speak to you about this business with Delanay as soon as I have access to a secure scrying orb again.
I’d also like to inform you, and Mother, that I have found a significant other in the course of my adventuring. Pekona, the [Sword Dancer] from Drath in Vuliel Drae? You met her at House Byres. I believe our relationship if, somewhat unorthodox, is founded on mutual respect.
 
Dawil and Pekona eyed Falene as the rest of Vuliel Drae stopped writing messages back to their loved ones. The half-Elf had gone absolutely still. Pekona was flushing, but smiling. So that indicated the lad wasn’t seeing illusions when there was nothing there, but Falene…
Pointy. I am begging you. For the love of our friendship, don’t.
It wasn’t Ylawes’ fault. He was standing at the desk, and Falene was well back, but he’d just forgotten she loved little looking spells.
He was pleased as a puppy, that innocent dog of a man, as loyal and goodhearted as could be. But sometimes the innocent dog could hurt someone terribly.
Or—as the case might be—someone could kick a puppy into a wall. Because Dawil was about to say something when the little [Covert Angle] spell that Falene had cast to let her see the writing shifted.
And Lord Byres replied.
 
Lord Yitton: I understand your team’s position, Ylawes. Let me know the moment the situation changes there.
Ylawes: I shall. I spoke to Ysara, and she seemed well. Did Mother cease worrying?
Lord Yitton: She was very relieved, yes.
Ylawes: I imagine she’ll have thoughts on Pekona.
Lord Yitton: She’s here with me.
Ylawes: Oh.
Lord Yitton: I trust you will be discreet and not embarrass House Byres publicly.
Ylawes: I’d never act untoward!
Lord Yitton: Or that. Your mother would like to say that she found Pekona quite charming. The one-armed swordswoman? She’d like you to bring fit company back to the home, however. There are a number of young [Ladies], and Miss Skystrall is always welcome.
Lord Yitton: I am glad Ysara seemed to be profitable.
Lord Yitton: Shall we try to speak when you have managed your situation, Ylawes?
Ylawes: Mother said that?
Lord Yitton: Yes. Personally, Ylawes, I do understand one can be youthful, but you don’t need to inform us of such matters, but do bear it in mind. And remember scrying spells are everywhere. Until later.
 
Dawil Ironbreaker had watched Ylawes cease writing fluently as his parents carried the conversation to its inevitable conclusion. Then he stood there, and well…
Huh. I always thought they were stiff, but welcoming. Dawil hated finding out things about people he’d liked. He didn’t know what to say.
When he turned his head and Ylawes peeked over his shoulder, both men realized that Pekona had seen all of it. If she’d been perked up and unusually forwards, she was, at this moment, visibly shrinking inwards.
Dawil was at a loss for words. He almost asked Ylawes for the quill so he could write back to the lad’s parents, but he felt like that might be a mistake. Instead, someone put a hand out, and Falene Skystrall sniffed at her arm.
“Eugh. We’re filthy. Ylawes, I don’t know about you, but I haven’t had a bath all day. Pekona, you’re a mess too.”
“I am.”
The [Sword Dancer] stared down at her feet, and Falene took her arm. The Drathian woman flinched—and peeked up into Falene’s smile.
“There is a bath house. Let’s clean ourselves—and our clothing. I saw a washer who has almost-acceptable rates, and if not, I can cast some cantrips. Ladies only. I’m using our group funds, Ylawes. You should clean yourself up as well.”
“I—but—Falene?”
Ylawes glanced at Pekona, and Falene beckoned.
“Ladies only. Pekona, I have some bottles of perfume I can lend you, and once we’re out of this city, we should all go shopping. Something durable that can pack thin, so we have some fancywear. I tossed all mine after the rains got to it. Do you have anything to wear?”
“I—no—”
“Then we’ll see if we can cobble something together. Come on!”
Falene was leading Pekona away, and someone stumped after them. The half-Elf glared over her shoulder.
“Ladies only I s—oh, Dasha. Er, wonderful!”
She had completely forgotten about the half-Dwarf woman, who took Pekona’s other side. Dawil eyed Falene, but the half-Elf gave him an arch look.
“We’ll be back in an hour. There is a bathing room in the Seafarer’s Catch, but I refused to use it, even with [Cleanse].”
Now, if Dawil were a suspicious sort…he turned to Ylawes, whose head had strayed back to the [Message] scroll. He was shaking his head like he’d taken a blow, and the Dwarf grabbed his arm.
“Lad, let’s get cleaned up.”
“Dawil, I, ah, my father just—”
“Yep. Saw it.”
“You did. Do you think he—”
“Every word. Let’s scrub up and get Poke Duo.”
 
——
 
Life was funny sometimes. One day, you were just walking along and nothing was happening, the next, everything was going on.
Two days ago, Dasha had had a stick in her boot, and she’d not been able to get it out. It had been stuck to the top of her foot, and she’d had to walk for like four hours because she didn’t want to lag behind or stop and take her boots off to get it out.
Today? They were in Goisedall, and everything was happening. But here was the thing: Dasha had no idea what was going on.
She never really did. She sometimes forgot to pay attention when Anith was briefing the team. That had been before the Silver Swords took them in. So she heard things and went, ‘huh’?
Like…someone said the Quarass had helped them get all the food they were paying for their inn with. And Dasha had asked who or what the ‘Quarass’ was, and Anith had given her one of his Looks™.
He was normally pretty nice, but sometimes she’d say something, or Insill would, and he’d puff out his cheeks exasperatedly. Larr often got things wrong, but he’d argue with Anith instead of getting the Look.
As for Pekona, well, everyone tried to help her out. With stuff like learning new words she didn’t know or her shyness—they were a team. They’d made mistakes, but now they were in the big leagues, it felt like. Working with Gold-rankers.
Dasha just wished she were more able to—
Oh hey, the bathhouses were packed. The half-Dwarf woman instantly got distracted. She didn’t know why, she just couldn’t focus on things. She’d be sharpening her axe one moment, then thinking about getting a drink of water. Two hours later, she’d wonder where her axe was, and Anith would show up and ask if she’d finished her share of shopping.
It was why she and Pekona were best friends. Pekona was shy, Dasha was loud, but Pekona focused on things obsessively. So things Dasha forgot Pekona would remind her friend to do, and Dasha would go out to ask [Merchants] about quality whetstones or to find ‘rice’, even if she had no idea what it was. Sometimes, they fought. Dasha had used to think rice was like little white maggots all piled up, and Pekona would say hurtful things about her beard.
Friends, though. The one thing Dasha wouldn’t forget was that Pekona was hurting. She’d read what Ylawes’ dad had said. She just didn’t know what to say, but Dasha tromped after Falene as the half-Elf got the [Bath Attendant]’s attention with a bright blue [Light] spell.
She was so cool. All the Silver Swords were. They were real Gold-rankers. Dasha watched as Falene got them a private bathroom. How? She drew the attendant aside as they protested.
“Mage, we really are too full even if you offer to pay—”
“I would like to pay the same rates as anyone else. But I will cast [Cleanse] ten times. A wide dispersal. It should easily cover the trouble, and any stains or particular areas of problem should vanish.”
That was so clever. Within moments, they were being led to a private bathing area that Falene hit with [Cleanse]. And then they were sitting, and all of them knew bathing house etiquette. You soaped and washed off before getting in the baths, which were hot, and steamy, and filled with fragrant oils and nice alchemical stuff if you were lucky.
These were just hot water, which made Falene sniff.
“We should have inquired if they had any bath balms. Ah, well, this will do. Pekona, do you need extra towels? Anything else?”
“No, Miss Falene. Thank you.”
Falene was being…nice. Oddly nice. Dasha didn’t know what to say, because, well…Ylawes and Pekona. Crazy, huh? Who’d have seen that coming?
Dasha had a bit, maybe. She’d noticed Pekona talked to Ylawes when she was shy even with her own team sometimes. But this? She felt like a bad friend and—oh, wow, the attendant had come back with a bucket of soaps just for Falene! And there were beard oils! She happily applied them to her beard, and they were all sitting in the baths before Dasha remembered Pekona and stared at Falene.
The half-Elf was chatting, remarking on the bath house, talking about the northern ones she knew, and trying to engage Pekona in conversation. Nice, right. Here was the thing…
Dasha and Vuliel Drae knew Captain Ylawes. They knew Dawil, who was friendly and gave tons of advice. Everyone knew Poke Duo, those scamps. But of all the Silver Swords…
What was Falene like? Sort of hard to say, right? She was a bit aloof and super smart. She was always talking about magic or analyzing things, like Anith, but he was more down-to-earth. Dasha couldn’t remember having a full conversation with Falene when it wasn’t with someone else. She was, like, the ultimate Gold-ranker. Hard to talk to, unreadable. Dasha hoped Falene liked them.
But the thing with Pekona and Ylawes…even Dasha had known Falene fancied Ylawes. She wasn’t showing any anger right now, but that was probably because of what they’d read. But Dasha sank up to her chin in the water filled with lovely blue bubbles and then…
“Hey, that was crazy with what Lord Yitton said, right? I thought he was nice, but that was pretty rude. Right?”
Pekona and Falene jumped and stared at Dasha. The Dwarf woman gave them a blank look.
“…Or was it not that rude?”
The Wistram [Mage] and Drathian [Sword Dancer] had been trained to subtlety. Pekona sighed, and Falene cleared her throat. She splashed some water over herself, then spoke.
“It was…unpleasant. I hope you do not hold it against Ylawes, Pekona.”
“Me? No. It was his message to his family. Private.”
Pekona sank up to her ears in the water, clearly uncomfortable. She wasn’t looking at Falene, but the [Battlemage] swirled the water around with one hand. She made an orb out of the water, juggling it from hand to hand. It was so amazing. Dasha wished she could do that. Falene cleared her throat again.
“I…believe he and Dawil will talk it out. Ylawes needs time to think. He admires his father. He has followed House Byres’ customs and traditions steadfastly as long as I’ve known him. He gives back to his family; a fifth of all he earns. I think he truly admires his parents and holds them as the standard to follow as nobles and just…people.”
Pekona nodded, sitting in the water, her hair spreading out around her like black seaweed. Dasha sank lower into the bath. She wanted to say something rude, but she wasn’t sure if Falene would yell at her. Then, the half-Elf took her spectacles off and brushed the condensation away.
“Give him time. I think the first thing he will do is apologize to you. He’s just never had to go against his parents, but you saw his face. He recognizes how wrong that was. I’m sorry; they are Humans, in the end, and not as worldly or wise as he imagines them to be.”
Pekona’s and Dasha’s heads rose, and Falene glanced at Pekona.
“Just so it is abundantly clear, I am not…upset at you, either. I was irked, but mostly that Ylawes thought he could trick us at all. I want you to feel comfortable, not worried.”
“I…thank you, Miss Falene. I’m sorry.”
The half-Elf was sitting deeper in the water, and she shot out of it as it was clearly too hot for her; Dasha had gone up to her forehead for a dunk. She loved hot water.
“Sorry? For what? Falene will do. Let us not prevaricate, Pekona. Yes, I had some sentimental feelings towards Ylawes, but if I wanted to act on them hither to, I would have. I am an adult woman and far older than you two. It would be petty of me to be anything other than supportive. And if you do have concerns, if he presses you—he’d never do it consciously, I trust—you shall come to me.”
Oh. Dasha was blinking at Falene, and the half-Elf tried to sit deeper in the water and copy the other two but retreated higher. She was a nice person after all. Just a bit snooty.
Pekona was bowing slightly to Falene, repeatedly, which she did when she was embarrassed or trying to say thank you. She took a huge breath in.
“I know I am not…it was because we were drunk and we survived. So I thought, after all that…”
“I’m sure Ylawes felt the same. He will apologize. And…and these things happen. Adventurers are famous for connecting after dangerous or long missions. Do you have a taste in clothing, Pekona? We’ll all go shopping after this. Everything I have is mildewed from the rain.”
Falene clearly thought that was that. Pekona smiled tremulously at her, and the [Battlemage] gave Pekona a slightly arch smile, and that would have been it. Job done—aside for, once again, Dasha.
The [Warrior] blurted out a thought she’d had, now it seemed like things were good.
“I never get things. I didn’t know you and Ylawes liked each other, Pekona. I sort of got you liking Ylawes, Falene. I mean, I like Dawil, but I’m pretty sure he doesn’t like me.”
Pekona’s eyes slid to Falene as the half-Elf blinked. Falene mouthed.
‘Is she like this all the time?’
Pekona nodded.
‘Yes.’
They turned to Dasha. How were you supposed to engage with…Falene coughed.
“I, well, don’t take it personally, Dasha. You are very enthusiastic about your heritage, and I suspect it’s a bit…wearing for Dawil.”
“Because of the beard.”
“Um, quite.”
Dasha felt at her beard. She nodded.
“I tried to grow it because I heard some Dwarf women wear it and, y’know, it makes me feel like I was somebody. Not just a short Human. But I’ve met a few, and some are nice, some don’t care, but all of them…they’re different. It’s like there’s a ‘real’ Dwarf that only they know. I’ve even met Dwarves who didn’t grow up in Dwarfhome, and they said they notice it too. What’s the difference? What are real Dwarves like?”
She turned to Falene, and this sidewinder out of the main conversation had the [Battlemage] opening her mouth, but replying, almost relieved to be lecturing.
“Real Dwarves? Well…I suppose I am not the greatest expert. I visited Dwarfhome once, as a girl, but only once. There is something about Dwarves that my people have remarked upon. They’re rather grounded.”
“Grounded? As in they live in the ground? No?”
Pekona asked, and Dasha was working out how to figure out that one when Falene smiled.
“No, grounded. Down-to-earth, pragmatic. Steady, reliable, not prone to arrogance. Whereas half-Elves are known to be snooty. I, of course, am aware of this stereotype and try not to play into it.”
Dasha and Pekona were suddenly interested in the hot baths, and Falene sighed.
“Well, I suppose being a Wistram [Mage] does not help. But I do know the stereotype, and believe me, there are far worse! You just don’t know them. Because we live so long, many of us consider ourselves above other species. And that’s also a Terandrian prejudice. Yet Dwarves? Truly, Dawil is a bit of a character even among them, having won his axe, but so many are normal, despite having lifespans centuries long!”
“Weird. Do you know why?”
Falene glanced around and flicked her fingers, casting some kind of spell.
“Privacy. I don’t know much, but I think it all revolves around Dwarfhome. There is something there. Dawil refuses to tell me all his people’s secrets, but some…factor or variable in his people’s kingdom gives them a perspective on power and life that makes them veer far more towards humanity than immortality. As if they see something that gives them less of an ego about their nature. Perhaps it’s the dilution of their blood unlike half-Elves. Who can say? But they are not infallible or that different from you, Dasha.”
“That’s good. I just—want to be part of something, you know? I thought you were a bit snooty, Falene, but I didn’t realize half-Elves got worse. So why’d you never make a move on Ylawes?”
—And there came Dasha’s axe, returning like a [Boomerang] throw with her short attention span to hit Falene in the back of the head. The half-Elf stuttered.
“M-me? Well, it would be improper! Ylawes and I both know how adventuring teams fall apart due to relationships! And there was never the right moment, Dawil is a stubborn, treacherous [Saboteur] sometimes, and…”
She trailed off. Gazing at Pekona, who bowed her head, but Falene whispered.
“It’s not just me being too slow, Pekona. Truly. I also held back unless I was drunk or desperate and willing to take a risk because…how would I have explained it when I went back home? It was a lovely dream I clung to, but a daydream. A fantasy.”
When she went back home? Dasha’s face screwed up.
“But you’re a Gold-ranker, Falene. The odds of any of us living to retire are low, right?”
She knew that. Falene Skystrall shrugged.
“It is true. I’ve had so many close calls. I know this could be my end. But even so, there is that nagging feeling…nevermind. It’s hard to explain.”
She sank down into the water, but now it was Pekona’s turn to speak softly.
“Is it because of what they expect? I know that. That’s why I like Ylawes. He also knows about having to do things the right way or being judged.”
The [Battlemage] stopped splashing water over her arms and hesitated. She let her head rest back in the waters and spoke to the ceiling.
“Argh, fine. If we are being honest, truly? Yes, I know it’s unlikely I’ll retire. The Silver Swords aren’t exactly looking to cash out, and we love adventure. We love to help people, and I imagine Ylawes will be as old as his father before he gives up, if an injury doesn’t take him away, or his family’s duties. I might well regret not pursuing him. But I thought…if he and I entered a relationship, however briefly, we would be serious about it. If I went back home, how would I explain it to my people? My friends, family, my community?”
“What, having a relationship with Ylawes?”
Dasha blinked, and Falene nodded.
“Having a fling with a Human. Especially if it resulted in…a child. Even without, it would be remarked upon! I would always be that Falene, the one who had been a Gold-rank adventurer that had, well, a licentious time before coming back to be respectable.”
Her lip curled, and she sighed.
“Having met other half-Elves who had that reputation applied, I was not keen to embrace that. Even though…I should have been kinder to them. But I had not travelled until then.”
Dasha didn’t get it.
“I don’t get it. It’s just having sex, and if you don’t have kids, what’s the big deal?”
“Dasha, it’s about how they think of you. That’s what matters.”
Pekona explained to the confused [Warrior], and Falene nodded.
“The perception of our peoples is a dire force at times, Pekona. Wistram is easier by comparison. There it is purely power. Reputation is part of it, but we do not have to play into what we should be.”
They gave each other nods, and Dasha felt like they had a connection. But she still didn’t understand.
“But you’re with Ylawes and Dawil now, and they don’t care. We don’t care, Falene! You’d be happy—I mean, not that you should fight over Ylawes. Your people won’t know until you retire!”
“Yes, Dasha. And I’ll have to live with my people for centuries.”
The half-Elf’s reply was calm, quiet, and a bit sad. Dasha blinked, and in Falene’s gaze, she saw something on the other side of the half-Elf’s heritage. A touching of immortality. Falene averted her gaze.
“Is it embarrassing that I fear the judgement of the peers I do not know over the people I am adventuring with? It is, and I am ashamed, but…if I live, Dasha, I will be with my people for hundreds of years. Two hundred? Four hundred? There are great and glorious half-Elves who pass a thousand years.”
“But…you could move away. If they’re jerks. There are other half-Elven communities.”
Falene shook her head, again, and touched her chest.
“I love my home and forest, Dasha. I have spent forty years there, which is no small amount of time, even for a half-Elf. I could not live among mortals forever. We try, but our hearts break with each generation we say goodbye to. No. If I were to bury Ylawes, or Dawil, of old age, I think…I think I’d go and live among my people. I don’t think I’d have the courage to find another team, to pretend to be young, that I had not done this before. Now I understand how older half-Elves talk. When I left, one of the ex-adventurers, that I had once called a slattern behind her back for having a child on another continent, she told me to go and not come back until I was done for good. She was right.”
A great silence fell as Falene spoke, a woman considering centuries. Dasha knew she’d not live that long, even if she didn’t die as an adventurer. Her blood was too thin. And Pekona?
“I am sorry, Miss Falene. I didn’t think of your feelings. Or I’d have talked with you.”
“Please, Pekona. It is Falene. And as I said…it was just a dream. I shall mourn, hurt, and search for love again. Perhaps that is the best lesson to take.”
The [Battlemage] lay back, and her voice lowered as she sank into the waters.
“It hurt. It did hurt, and I was jealous and wrathful, and it told me I had lost something I valued more than I wished to admit. I should not be so afraid to love. I fear what my people will say, but a hundred years from now is a very long time. Do you think you’ll continue with Ylawes?”
It was Pekona’s turn, and she hesitated.
“I don’t know. Maybe it was a short thing. A—a—”
“Fling?”
“One-night stand?”
“Spring’s romance?”
“Tumble in the sack?”
Falene and Dasha grew amused as they tossed out expressions, and Pekona splashed them with water. They all laughed, and then Dasha thought they felt more like a team. Pekona stared at her arm.
“I’m not very important in Drath. The [Emperor] himself asked for my katana, and it’s important…because Zeladona touched it. But I told Ylawes the truth: I don’t matter. Here? In Izril? I’m a Silver-rank adventurer, and it’s more than what I could be back home. He’s a Gold-rank adventurer, a [Lord]. I don’t want to ruin his chances. I like him.”
Falene cleared her throat.
“Pekona. Ylawes Byres is a hard man to love. He is an idiot, naïve at times, stubborn, but most of all, an adventurer. He courts death, and I think there are plenty of women who find him attractive, who see his honor and integrity, and when they realize who he is, see a dead man, not a future. He seems to be growing and trying to change, and speaking with you helps that process. It is your decision, but I think it is not a poor thing, you two meeting.”
After a second, she looked around, then sank up to her chin in the waters.
“Now, with that said, may we soak and speak of more pleasant things? This is dreadfully intimate, and I would like to just rest!”
Pekona nodded, smiling, and they all sat back. Dasha floated in the waters, giggling as Falene made the bubbles froth up until they nearly touched the ceiling, and after three minutes of blissful silence, she spoke.
“Hey, did you hear about some kind of Draconic Titan that’s up in the High Passes? Everyone was whispering about it. Did I miss something? What’s a Mortemdefieir Titan?”
Falene and Pekona opened their eyes, and the half-Elf sat up.
“A what?”
 
——
 
The Dwarf took a gamble. Mostly because he ended up sitting in the bathing room, scrubbing at his beard, chest hair, and armpits with some soap as Ylawes talked. The Dwarf listened, mostly. Let the lad talk out—well, that.
When they traded places with Anith, Insill, and Larr, and after an hour had passed, Falene returned, swanning in considerably more pampered-looking and with her robes freshly-laundered. Plus, she’d given Pekona a spare dress, and the younger [Bladedancer] appeared…happier.
It was probably because Dasha and Falene practically stuck to her, and all three marched into place as the adventurers gathered, defying anyone to get in their way. Insill went over to hug Pekona and got kicked by Dasha.
Falene stood there, quite proudly, which was always how Dawil had known her. But he did sidle over anyways and mutter to her as she let go of Pekona long enough to cast [Cleanse] again—Vuliel Drae had destroyed the bathroom between two hairy and one scaly person, and the others wanted a turn.
“Good job, Falene. Proud of you.”
She stared ahead, then seemed to bite back a retort. Instead, her shoulders slumped for a moment, and she nodded.
“Dawil, let’s get a drink after this.”
“Let’s not.”
His patience with internal drama only went so far. She glowered at him. And he mock threw up his hands.
“Oh, fine. But only if you’re buying.”
Her lips quirked, and they stood together. And that—well, if Dawil had to ever explain why this snooty half-Elf was a teammate he trusted with his life, this was a good example of it.
So they were a team again. Everyone but Poke Duo gathered around. Ylawes seemed shocked, downcast, and at the same time, when he glanced at Pekona, like a new man. Thinner, more worn, different from the New Lands, and it had only been one foray—not even that deep.
But they were a team. The Silver Swords stood together facing a new day, their first day proper of escaping the New Lands, when Larr sniffed the air. Then he recoiled.
“Pekona, did you and Captain Ylawes sleep together?”
Every head turned to him as Insill’s jaw dropped. Anith covered his face, and Pekona and Ylawes turned bright red. Dawil sighed, and he didn’t stop Falene as she pointed a finger and a [Wind Orb] sent Larr flying across the floor of the inn.
Then he just laughed.
 
——
 
Nailren actually heard about Ylawes and Pekona before he even ran into the Silver Swords again. Which was mildly hilarious, but in truth, he felt like his role with them was over.
Easy escort duty, fat paycheck from The Wandering Inn? Check and check. He was more in the city to gather intelligence.
The first of which was that if they wanted supplies, he’d better have gold on hand or send someone a lot further away to get it than he wanted. The prices, the city…
He blended in decently well with a Pallassian accent. A bit more ze and ‘esses’ and Drakes treated you different. He wanted gossip, and getting that was easy.
“Any big names coming into the New Lands yet?”
He was hauling up buckets of water for people at the well, and you made a lot of friends if you did that. Goisedall had sewers, but they’d drained into the sea, and he just bet they were clogged anyways. The people waiting for him to fill cauldrons or bags of holding shrugged.
“Oh, you hear rumors. Champions of the Coast passed this way? Tons of landings across the west, north, and south.”
“Even the north of the New Lands?”
“Oh, definitely. No word on that Terandrian fleet that the [Pirates] got, but I heard someone ran into some hoity-toity [Knights]. Riding around with gleaming armor, all ‘thees’ and ‘thous’. Like out of a storybook.”
So some [Knight] order had arrived. Nailren grunted as the woman helping him spoke.
“Let me lower the next bucket, fellow. [Deep Bucket]—and pull, and pull—thank you for the hand!”
“Nothing to it, ma’am. Anyone know what these [Knights]…look like?”
Dead gods, she was strong as an ox! It came from being a [Washer Woman], he supposed. You had to haul water, and she had dedicated Skills. She was filling buckets for silvers. And so many people had bags of holding—
People probably selling them cheap when they realize they can’t take ‘em into the New Lands. Someone else called out.
“Not all of ‘em look the same. One group were all red, apparently. Another were, uh, those weather-knights? And the last group supposedly slew a Wyvern. Just rode down, lanced it through the heart, one strike, rode off. Wouldn’t even accept thanks. Said it was their knightly duty. A thousand of ‘em were coming or something.”
Nailren grunted.
All red knights. I don’t know them, but I can look that up. Order of Seasons and…the Thousand Lances?
Big, big names. Especially the finest [Knights] in the world from Kaaz. He’d always wanted to see one.
“If you saw them, they must have been close by?”
“Oh, sure. Everyone has to run from the anti-magic thing. North and south, they pop out. Well, those that don’t go too deep in the New Lands. It’s a business right now. You can even run in some magic a short ways. Load up a cart with food and they’ll pay for it.”
“If they don’t kill you for it. I heard there were bandits taking shots at anyone in the open. Be careful. We could use more [Knights] and fewer dodgy sorts.”
“Listen to yourself. You sound like a northerner!”
The crowd of Goisedall natives were arguing amongst each other until someone laughed.
“Hah! Not all [Knights] are bad! There was one at the Peeled Prawn. He was flirting with this one-armed Human from Drath? Dead. Gods. Sold out common room. Everyone was watching the two flirt. Egging them on and taking bets if it went the distance. I nearly cringed my tail off.”
“What?”
Nailren almost dropped the bucket as the story of Ylawes and Pekona actually became city gossip. Especially because—the Drake tapped the side of his snout.
“Then they went upstairs and dead gods. Adventurers are something else.”
“Oh, come on. Don’t be disgusting. And the entire inn heard?”
“Heard? They were shaking the rafters!”
“Don’t be crass. Why didn’t the inn kick them out?”
“Well…are you going to pick a fight with two adventurers in the middle of the night? Plus, they were pretty funny flirting.”
Nailren sighed.
Well, there’s another reason to avoid the Silver Swords. Drama. He wondered if Nanette would pay him a bounty for this particular piece of gossip.
Some things he didn’t want to tell a kid, even if she was a witch. Nailren stopped hauling water and stepped back.
Okay. Say goodbye to the Swords. Swing around for any more leads or gossip—maybe anything going on in the New Lands to check out, interesting areas—and head back in.
Time to go exploring again! Properly! Then he felt a tug at his right arm and froze.
Ah, and one more thing.
The ghosts.
He didn’t have any huge findings on the nature of his dead friend so far, but she was reasonably easy to deal with. Sometimes, she poked or prodded him, and he couldn’t tell if it was just her trying to tell him something or…being bored.
Certainly, the malice was gone. But Nailren was curious.
Was this just him and a rare occurrence or…? He asked, a bit covertly, in the Adventurer’s Guild, but most people here were entering the New Lands or hadn’t gone in far.
And who would admit to killing or being near a corpse? Nailren was going to leave and find the Swords when he felt a tug again.
Right shoulder, fur pulling a bit back. Again. He turned, glanced that way, and saw nothing, but there it was again.
Tug, tug.
“Okay, I’m listening. I hope you have something to show me, because I can’t keep doing this forever without reason.”
He put a paw on the little spoon tied around his neck and spoke. He wished he could talk to Pekona more. Her charms…another way to deal with this thing?
At any rate, what he found when the tugging continued was that the spirit was guiding him. Just out of the Adventurer’s Guild, into a bar nearby, and towards…
…Hmm.
When Nailren saw the pair of silent, drinking Drakes, he stepped back and got a table, ignoring the drinking. He surveyed them as they stared at their plates. Quiet. Despite having escaped the New Lands, they were dead quiet.
He could tell they were back because they had the same travel worn attire he did. Mud on their boots that was pinkish from the coral lands. Adventurers?
No…[Sellswords]. He recognized the Mercenary Guild’s badge on their belts. And they had similar-looking armor. The Guild would issue you standard gear if you paid for it. Sellwords, and from the looks of it—
Grumpy.
“We’re not paying for all that!”
The moment one of them got a tab higher than he wanted, he snarled at the [Waitress], then went almost snout-to-snout with one of the guards and the [Pub Owner] who strode over. They argued, and Nailren saw the other [Sellsword] touch the sword at his waist. Then hesitate.
They went back to eating after some money was thrown in a platter and glared. Then, as Nailren was wondering if it was all in his mind, he distinctly, visibly saw one of the Drakes—
Twitch. As if something had poked him. The other glanced up.
“Let’s get out of here. Find a damn [Mage].”
“It’s not stopping. Do you think…?”
“Shut up. Let’s go. One more round! Hurry up!”
More gold coins clattered onto the table. Nailren eyed the coins and wondered—
Did [Sellswords] earn that much? Prices or not, where did the gold come from? The tugging on his shoulder had stopped, but on a hunch, now, he touched the spoon.
“Listen. If you can hear me and get this, I have a question. How many on the left Drake, the one with the fresh scar?”
Silence. He felt like it was too complex and began to word another question when he felt six tugs on his arm, all up his fur.
Nailren’s fur rose completely separate from the tugging.
“Okay. The right?”
Eight.
Eight? Nailren eyed the two. They couldn’t be over Level 20. So either it was done in the night or maybe they lived and the rest just…grabbed them? Like had happened to Nailren.
They might be honest men.
Might. This time, Nailren used a Skill.
[Clear Statement (Spirits)]. He tried to activate it.
“And how hostile are they? Um…pull a hair out if hostile, gentle tug if not.”
Now he was eying them more closely, Nailren realized his hair was rising every time he gazed at the two Drakes.
Ah, my [Supernatural Sense]. As for [See Ectoplasm]…none of that yet. I wonder what it is. He braced himself for some pain, and the hair came out of his arm with only a sting—rather gently, really.
—The empty mug that rose off a table and smashed itself across the back of one of the Drakes’ heads was far, far less gentle. There was a cry and scream as the other Drake leapt to his feet and a fork from his table drove itself into his arm—Nailren saw the shards of the mug digging themselves into the Drake’s scalp, against the laws of gravity.
As if someone was trying to push the shards into his—
The shards of the mug dropped, and the second [Sellsword] ripped the fork out of his arm. The [Pub Owner] whirled around.
“Who did—what was—sirs, are you alright?”
Neither Drake responded. The one who’d hit the table pushed himself up and met the other’s eyes wordlessly. They ran.
No words, nothing. Just terrified motion. Nailren froze with everyone else, then began to mutter to himself, pretending to be in shock. When, really, what he thought was—
That was some [Clear Statement], alright. I didn’t realize I could do it to someone else! He had to be careful, but this was far, far more powerful than…
But what had gone on? The Gnoll was about to put his mug down when he stared at the table and jerked.
Drawn in some of the mug’s leavings on the table was a little image made out of small, crude stick figures. The Drakes had spiky ‘heads’, which was the best the artist could come up with, and there were two holding little stick-swords.
Little heads, fourteen of them, with Xs for eyes on the ground at their feet. Below all of it, a huge, unhappy smiley face.
“…Right. Well. Understood. Thank you for the clarity. I think there’s little more I can do to them that isn’t happening. Nor can I explain this to the Watch, yet. But it’s out there.”
Nailren murmured as he left some coins on the table and walked out of the pub.
Strange happenings in the New Lands, indeed. He was still going back, but he realized, now…
“I need more preparation. Damn. I need more higher-level teammates, not just my squad.”
They were good archers, hunters, trackers, but they weren’t magic-users. He needed specialists. Because Nailren hated to admit it, but this was more than just unexplored terrain to be colonized. He bared his teeth.
“Tribes take it. This is potentially big.”
He hated being part of big things. It always meant work for him, but then there was a breath of air on his shoulder, like a feather resting there, waiting to see what he did next. Nailren exhaled.
“Am I that amusing?”
He thought he heard a child’s laugh in his ear and shook his head. Then he set off. All things considered, he really wished he could have joined the Horns. They could find adventure here, he was certain. The Crossroads sounded deadly, but—Nailren grinned.
Argh! Dead gods, he’d liked being an adventurer sometimes! A shame his job had meant never actually being too good at it.
 
——
 
Nailren seemed ready to ride straight back into the New Lands when he found the Silver Swords. Ylawes was still embarrassed, but he stood next to Pekona, arm in arm with her. Defying not so much his teammates to say anything, but his—his—
Parents.
Why’d Father say that? Why did Mother say that? Falene? Pekona—what was wrong with her? He’d always thought that if he found someone, they’d bless the—
“Captain Ylawes. Do you need more help or is this where we part? Poke Duo’s ready to move…how are the Terlands doing?”
“Well, Nailren. They’re, ah—they’re going to set up base in a city where they can actually draw gold, but they’ve said goodbyes. As for Homle and Petia’s group, we’ll go with them as well. Those that don’t want to work here.”
They were sort of a team, and Ylawes felt a pang when he realized Petia and Homle were seeking work already. But he’d see them off and maybe give them some gold…they weren’t getting any from the Merchant’s Guild anytime soon.
Nailren smiled and touched the weird spoon on his chest for some reason.
“So you’ll be back to the New Lands? Good, you seem like you could survive. If you run into me out there, I’ll be glad to share info.”
“We’ll pay you back, Nailren. But for the moment, we’re regrouping.”
Ylawes sighed as he rubbed at his neck, and Nailren nodded. He stuck out a paw.
“Then, Ylawes, Dawil, Falene, Anith—I wish I’d partied with you all more in Liscor. But this is somehow more exciting than even the dungeon!”
“Hopefully with fewer Facestealers.”
Insill joked, and Nailren bared his teeth.
“Beware people. They’ll be worse, but I’m sure you know that.”
Then he was striding off, and Dawil muttered.
“I wish we could hire him to escort us or come with when we do an expedition, eh, lad? If we see him around, it’d be worth the gold.”
“I agree. But Nailren seems like he’s going straight back at it. And he has a team? Though he didn’t mention them.”
If they had been going back into the New Lands, Ylawes would have marched over and asked Nailren to consider a contract. But as he’d said, they needed to reassess, eat, rest—make plans. Plus, a week would give him and Pekona a chance to figure out…
They were glancing at each other when Falene grumpily pushed them aside.
“I think we’re burning daylight. Personal affairs later. Onwards, Ylawes?”
A new normal, but a working one. Everyone smiled except for Larr, whose chest was bruised, and Ylawes nodded.
“One last check that we’re not leaving anyone. Is Farmer Petia really going to stay?”
He turned to Homle, and the [Head Miner] shrugged.
“She said she had a recruiter. Let’s go and see, and if she doesn’t like it here, there’ll be work all around. I think, eh, I think it was this way.”
He pointed somewhat uncertainly and led them towards the square where the recruiter had been. Ylawes walked along, grateful to take his time, and when Homle didn’t find Petia at once, or the other [Farmers] who’d been with her, they spread out. He stood there as Homle walked up to a member of the Watch, who called over a squad that was peacekeeping, and turned to the others.
“We have the you-know-whats as well. I think we’ll have them checked for quality…can we do that, Dawil?”
“Any [Smith] can probably do it. Not sure what else is to be found aside from whether or not there’s damage, and they looked good, lad. Divide them up?”
“I think so. It’s all we’ve got, then we can see if any teams want to keep going, discuss what we did wrong—”
“No more self-recriminations, Captain Ylawes! We’re in it, and if Poke Duo isn’t, I’ll eat my fur.”
Anith spoke up, and Ylawes smiled. Darn it. He wished they would let him be down on himself! He turned.
“I’m going to give Petia a bit of gold, unless anyone objects?”
Falene rolled her eyes.
“Just a bit, Ylawes. I do agree, after all that’s been going on…hm? What’s going on with Master Homle?”
She pointed, and Ylawes turned just in time to see the [Miner] and some of his friends step back. And for the Watch officer to draw a baton, point, and the man’s voice to rise.
“Wait! We didn’t do anything wrong! We—”
A whistle blew, and Ylawes saw the rest of the squad lower its weapons. Homle threw his hands up, and the officer called out.
“Criminals arrested! Go about your business, citizens!”
The people who’d turned in alarm relaxed, and Ylawes started as a sudden crawl ran down his back. Homle was gazing at him, but then turning his head.
“Master Homle, what’s going on?”
“Is this a friend of yours? Stay back, er, adventurers!”
The Watch officer was glancing at something he was carrying. Anith frowned.
“Yes, we were with them in the New Lands. Why is he arrested?”
“We have a warrant for his arrest. As well as…”
The Drake peeked up, stared at Anith, then casually unhooked a speaking stone from his belt.
“Officer Kiest. Watch Captain, could you get a squad to replace us in the square? The net’s all tangled up with us taking the criminals to the Watch House. Thanks.”
Anith tilted his head and glanced at Ylawes as the [Knight] strode over. The squad pivoted to face them, and he saw Guardsman Kiest lower the baton and stow it. Then put a hand on his sword hilt.
“What can I do for you, adventurers?”
“We don’t believe Master Homle’s committed any crimes, guardsman. We were with him the entire time. What could he have done?”
Ylawes asked, dumbfounded. This was surely a mistake. One of those ‘all Humans look alike’ things. He was positive they could work it out. The Drake read a little sheaf of papers he was carrying.
“Oh, er, well, we have a man by the name of ‘Homle’ wanted. It never says why, Captain. We’ll go down to the Watch House, get him booked in, and, uh, if you want to find out, why don’t you come with us?”
“We will, of course. Homle?”
“They just grabbed us when we asked about Petia! Said we were on a list, Ylawes! Hey, is Petia arrested too?”
Officer Kiest scratched at his head.
“Petia. Petia…I don’t know who’s in our jails, master [Miner]. Goisedall is packed. I tell you what, this could be a big mistake. Let’s all head that way, eh? I’ll ask the Watch Captain himself what’s going on.”
He pointed, and the adventurers were walking after the squad when a few details connected in Ylawes’ head. Details that had already had Dawil slowing and Anith glancing at Larr and Pekona.
Officer Kiest had known Ylawes was the captain without identifying himself. And that Homle was a [Miner]. Had the man said that? There was that odd way he’d asked for a squad, and he wasn’t acting like Relc or Klbkch did at all, in Ylawes’ limited experience.
Ylawes was glancing to Dawil, catching the Dwarf’s eye, when someone whispered.
“Captain!”
Insill. Ylawes slowed, and the Drake [Rogue] appeared next to him. With…a sheaf of papers. Ylawes eyed Kiest’s empty belt.
“Insill?”
“They have an arrest warrant for Homle, Petia, and all of the colonists! And us, Captain! By order of Goisedall’s Merchant Guild for questioning and assault on [Merchants] of good standing—”
Insill was reading out the arrest warrant with clear practice and alarm, and Ylawes’ head snapped up. Just in time for him to see Kiest giving them the side-eye.
“There’s our backup. Let’s all just walk back to the Watch House, nice and easy—”
He saw the papers in Insill’s claw and went still. And then, Ylawes’ mind snapped the pieces into place.
“Merchant Anlam. Whatever he claims, we have our testimony on truth stone that we acted in good faith! You cannot arrest Petia and Homle without a trial!”
He strode forwards, and the patrol whirled.
“Backup, backup on me! Drop your weapons!”
Kiest shouted, and Ylawes saw blades clear their sheaths. He paused, almost reaching for his sword, but it was ridiculous.
“Listen to me, I’m a Gold-rank captain, and we just got out of the New Lands! We’ve killed no one, and if Merchant Anlam—”
Or was it the others? He distinctly remembered Lolsed sending [Messages] back to the Guild. The officer was breathing in and out, eying the Silver Swords who had drawn close together reflexively.
“Calm down. Calm down. We have our orders, we can establish facts after we take you into custody—”
“We are calm, lad. Don’t worry. You’re seeming tense. We’re just telling you that someone’s lied to you or had the Merchant’s Guild giving bad orders. Let’s put our blades away, eh?”
Dawil’s voice was very soothing as he raised his hand, but then Ylawes heard more boots.
“Drop your weapons! Drop your weapons, now!”
The reinforcements had arrived, and it was three whole squads who came charging into the plaza as people scattered. Kiest shouted at once.
“Gold-rank team, on me!”
“We’re not fighting—”
Ylawes growled, getting annoyed. The officers were clearly panicking. This wasn’t like Liscor at all! Relc would never panic—probably because he never thought he’d lose a fight, even against Gold-rankers. But this lot—
“On your knees! Drop your weapons!”
The first squad had joined the others, and they were aiming spears at Ylawes’ team. He had on his armor, but they thrust a spear at Falene, who recoiled.
“I am a Mage of Wistram! Drop your weapons and let me speak to your Watch Captain and this Guildmaster!”
She went to slap a spear down, and the Drake jabbed it at her side. Ylawes caught the shaft of the spear and shoved.
“That’s enough. Stop—”
He was raising his voice, the Drake stumbling back, when someone threw something. It clanged off the back of his head, and he saw stars. Insill shouted.
“Watch out! Nets—”
Then the fishing nets with heavy stones attached to them were flying. Ylawes whirled as the Watch threw the nets, and Dawil swore.
“That Grandfathers-damned Merchant! Lad, they’re on—argh!”
As the adventurers tried to yank nets off of them, the Watch closed in fast. Jabbing spears, shouting for the adventurers to drop their weapons—and some of them swung a cosh. One hit Dawil solidly in the cheek as he turned, and he staggered. Ylawes saw the Drake raise the weighed sack of cloth again and grabbed him.
“I said stop.”
He shoved the Drake into his buddies, and they stumbled, turned on him, and he saw a sword swinging. Officer Kiest swinging at Dawil, shouting. Even if the Dwarf had armor on—
One second the Watch was all around the Silver Swords, yelling, encircling them—the next there was a ringing sound of steel on steel. A cry—
“He’s got a—”
The onlookers saw the Watch back up—then heard a phumf sound. One side of the Watch went stumbling backwards as an orb of air hit them and knocked them back. Another guardswoman cried out and clutched at her hand as a pair of daggers slashed across her leather gauntlet.
A Drake went stumbling backwards, sword raised and backing up from a Human in armor. He shouted.
“[Deft Strike]! [Deft]—”
His squad began to swing, and the giant, glowing [Shield of Valor] caught all the attacks, including the Skill, and Ylawes Byres heaved. Officer Kiest went flying, landing on his back with a crash, and Ylawes turned, sword in hand.
In the sudden, abrupt silence, he made one last plea for peace.
“We are not criminals. We want to talk to—”
Someone began blowing a horn. The [Knight] stood there and closed his eyes as the Watch went running, screaming.
“Gold-rankers! Call the army! Criminals in Flatfish Square—”
Then the [Knight] felt a familiar building pressure behind his eyes, and his teeth began to grind. Once again, there was that feeling building in the back of his throat.
Unfair.
Why was it always so damn stupid and unfair?
 
——
 
Farmer Petia and her people were in the overfull prison when Merchant Anlam walked in with the Guildmaster of the Merchant’s Guild and the Watch Commander. She shot to her feet.
“You son of a bitch. We saved your life and you—”
She grabbed the cell bars until the Watch Captain shouted.
“Back! Back against the wall! I don’t think we need verification, but this is one of them?”
“Oh, yes. That’s her. And the Silver Swords are about. I don’t see why I have to be here, Commander. They’re dangerous!”
Anlam didn’t peek at Petia as she shouted.
“We saved him! He was begging us to leave! But for us and he’d have starved with them! They were mad as loons!”
The Guildmaster glanced from Anlam to Petia.
“The distressing incident, Anlam…is it true you went with them? That does muddy the narrative a bit.”
Anlam froze, then shrugged.
“Yes, I did leave. It was that or starve, especially given they were abandoning the camp. It’s all there in the deposition, Guildmaster. But I am sure, positive, that the investigation will show we were in the right. Contractually, we had every right, but not only did they break our contract physically, they attacked us!”
“We didn’t do a thing! You sent Sal after us and tried to hold us down! Get a truth stone!”
Petia was raging, but the [Watch Commander] shouted.
“Get back, I said! Someone get some spears!”
They came with spears, and she backed up as they jabbed her back with the dulled, but still pointed, blades. The other farmers were protesting, and Anlam spoke to the air past Petia’s head.
“There were regrettable moments, Miss Petia, but the truth of the matter is that the Consortium is ruined. The mana drain, the salted earth—”
“Terrible. Terrible. I can’t count how many fortunes of our members might be destroyed, even with the word spreading. Not everyone hears.”
The [Guildmaster] was shaking his head as he rested a claw on Anlam’s shoulders. The man nodded as he shrugged the hand off.
“Ruined. My finances, everyone’s. If they even…I intend to have them rescued, you know.”
She stared at him, and Anlam went on.
“However, there are provisions in the Merchant’s Guild charters. Some restitution of funds for failed ventures. We’ll reclaim what we can after the investigation, of course. But the fact of the matter is—we were sabotaged. Our help was uncommitted, and without that foundational pillar…hopeless. I do lay the blame at the Silver Swords’ feet, Guildmaster. The others are accomplices, yes, but I will ask for mercy from the guild.”
“Indentured servitude contracts, then. Or just prison labor. We’ll have to see. It’s tricky—the Adventurer’s Guild has their backs mostly, but they would. Don’t worry, Anlam. We do have support from the other Guilds, though that [Princess]…but there are peers from other nations, and Chandrar’s Merchant Guilds are quite, quite strong. Watch Commander, can you hold the Gold-rankers?”
The Watch Commander was less happy as the two [Merchants] conferred.
“I’d prefer not to call in the army, and yes, we have cells…I’m more worried about them fleeing the city, but we have people on each gate.”
“The Merchant’s Guild has put out a full notice to all local cities, don’t worry, Watch Commander. Now, let’s let you do your work and—”
“Ylawes is a noble of the north! The Terlands were with us, they’ll vouch for us!”
Petia shouted, but Anlam was hurrying the Guildmaster off, and she realized, even if the [Watch Commander] hesitated, the [Guildmaster] did not. Oh, he heard her. She saw him glance up, but he was a [Merchant].
Their blood ran thick as the gold they shared. Petia was cursing. They never should have let Anlam out of their sight! He acted so humble when he was really gearing up to stab them. For what? Gold? He was going to claim all the gold from the Silver Swords? Could he do that?
Contracts. She stood there, helpless, until she heard raised voices from the end of the jail. A shout.
“Get me to safety! Get me to—”
Then the [Watch Commander] ran past her. Shouting.
“Breach! Prison breach! Get the army in—”
Everyone was flooding past her. Anlam, the [Guildmaster]—and [Guards] were backing up, spears lowered, but suddenly pale-faced. Three had bows, and one drew theirs back—and there was a voice.
“Fire that arrow and you’ll regret it, boys and girls. Just back up, nice and slow, or follow that Watch Commander. No one wants to get hurt for no reason. The most that happens is we get annoyed and you get something broken. Or worse. Petia, you in there?”
“Adventurer Dawil? Over here!”
She shouted, and the Dwarf advanced down the hallway as the Watch fell back, then ran. He had his helmet on and shield raised, so only his eyes were visible. Hammer in hand.
“There you are. Good! Hold on, keys—ah, it’s all a mess anyways. Back up. I don’t want to hurt you!”
He swung his hammer into the iron bars, grunted when they rang and mortar dust shook the air, and ruefully stared at his hammer.
“Ah, damn it. Not even enchanted. Right…[Thunder Blow]? Nope. That’s stupid and the stone chips would probably…one second.”
He stowed his hammer and motioned.
“Larr, keep me covered.”
“I can pick the locks, Dawil!”
Insill appeared, and Petia gasped with relief, but the Dwarf shook his head.
“Nope, this is faster. Stand back. Don’t want to cut myself.”
He produced a fragment of his axe, ran it across the cell bars as high as he could reach, then repeated the process below. The bars didn’t move—until he kicked one out and it popped out of place.
Perfectly cut. Petia stared as Dawil grunted.
“Out you come! Hurry—the lad and Pokey are keeping the Watch back, but it’s getting hairy out there. Those idiots aren’t listening. Grandfathers! Why can’t we have one good thing go our way?”
He cursed as Petia exited the jail.
“They said they’ve put a report out in all the cities. That we’re criminals. Anlam, he’s claiming we ruined them and trying to get us all to pay for their mistakes.”
Dawil glanced up at her as the other [Farmers] left the room. His eyes were sad, but not surprised as he adjusted his helmet.
“Yeah, I thought that was how it went down. A small man. I suppose it all seems like the only thing he can do, rather than face the consequences. The thing about consequences is that it takes courage to face them. [Innkeepers] do it. Not [Merchants], for all they make and lose gold, I suppose. Come on. Can you all run?”
He was pointing back out of the cells, and Petia stumbled after him. Dawil paused, just once, as she croaked.
“We’re all going to be arrested.”
“Aye, well, that’s one way it goes down. But I don’t think the lad’s going to hear of it. Frankly, given how the contracts and arguing on their terms worked, I don’t think I’ll hear of it. Hmm. Hey, Petia?”
“Yes, Dawil?”
The Dwarf pointed to a Watch armory next to the prison guards’ rest area.
“Get in there, grab everything you can carry. A weapon at the least. All of you. And if there’s any bags of holding, enchanted gear, that too. Let’s go.”
Dawil licked his lips as he heard shouting from outside, then the boom of one of Falene’s [Fireballs]. But no screams yet, just a lot of panic. Dawil exhaled.
“I really want to go back to Ylawes and Pekona sleeping together right about now.”
 
——
 
First came the Watch, then, with rather more speed than he wanted—the army.
Goisedall didn’t have a huge army, but it had enough for any Drake city to defend itself. And whom should be at the head of a rather more well-trained squad of [Riders] with spears than…
“Patrol Leader Dulc. My team and I have been set up. I’d dearly love to speak to the Merchant’s Guild representative to clear this up. Or send a [Message]?”
Ylawes wondered if his father could…no, Lyonette was better. But the Drake just shot back as he sat on horseback.
“It’s Captain of Territory, Captain Byres. The Council has ordered your arrest. Why does an innocent man resist arrest?”
“Probably because he doesn’t trust [Merchants]. We can swear on truth spells we did nothing wrong save break a contract, Captain! This has gotten out of hand!”
Falene snapped. Certainly, Dulc seemed to agree. The Watch had formed rows of spears behind him, and more [Soldiers] were surrounding the jail that the Silver Swords had broken into. No one was dead—yet, but his eyes were narrowed.
“Captain Byres, you just broke into our jail.”
“Our friend was being held here. Without evidence.”
“According to the Merchant’s Guild, they have evidence. Broken contracts—listen, I am here as Goisedall’s military, and you have assaulted members of the Watch and disrupted the peace. We know you’re Gold-rankers. We also know how many of you there are. Put down your weapons and I’ll see to a fair trial.”
“A trial that already has us assaulting officers, Captain? I am willing to speak, but let me at least state my case!”
Ylawes was pleading with Dulc. The Drake glanced at him, then his eyes flickered.
“I can waive that. Let’s all calm down and search for a good outcome. You put your weapons down. We get the Guildmaster to explain himself. The Council can hear you out. You might sit in jail until we get all the testimony, but no one gets charged further.”
“We don’t want to be in jail! We have done nothing wrong!”
Falene hissed, but Ylawes held up a hand.
“We can do that. And speak on truth stones.”
“Right. Good. Let’s all do that. Then the Merchant’s Guild can complete its investigation along with the Adventurer’s Guild, and when it and the Council confer—”
The Merchant’s Guild. Ylawes pictured the contract and glowing chains on his arms, and he wondered exactly what was in those standard contracts that no one had bothered to read. He cursed himself again, and Dulc trailed off.
“…This is the Merchant’s Guild’s territory, Ylawes.”
“I do not…trust their authority nor that of Merchant Anlam, Captain Dulc. We have been deceived by them. They have contracts. But the way they use them is dishonorable and, I think you would agree if you saw it, unlawful.”
The Drake was biting his lip. He shifted on his saddle.
“Well, I have to arrest you, Captain Ylawes. If you walk out of here, Goisedall has no authority.”
“And I do not trust the Merchant’s Guild, Captain Dulc.”
The two stared at each other, and Dulc’s head bowed.
“Ancestors. I liked you. We have bows on you! Surrender!”
He raised his hand, and Falene’s barrier spells were gleaming as she and Anith raised their hands. The [Battlemage] snapped.
“You’re bunched up, Captain. I can cast [Fireball] fifty times.”
He froze, and Ylawes’ jaw was tight. Dulc glanced at several [Mages] who ducked down as if to confirm Falene’s magical strength.
“Cast and this goes all the way down, Magus. Captain Ylawes, this is not going to—”
The prison doors burst open, and Dawil appeared at last, with Petia, as Homle and his [Miners] backed up reflexively. Ylawes turned, and half the [Archers] drew back, but Dulc had thrown up his hand.
“[Hold Fire]! Hold—”
“Lad, what’s the plan?”
Dawil came charging up to them and set himself as the Silver Swords cast around. Ylawes just glanced over his shoulder.
“Out of the city. We could surrender, but the Merchant’s Guild is leading this and—we just need to get away and tell Lyonette! And explain to someone reasonable!”
“Good luck with that right now. Okay. How do we get to the gates?”
They were surrounded on three streets, and Ylawes had no idea. Only two things.
One. He really, really liked Pekona, and he couldn’t wait to hop into bed with her again and wished life was more of that and less of this.
Two. Despite his best inclinations, his trust that Dulc was a good man, his belief in the goodness of humanity and other species…
He was just angry. Angry, because to his understanding, with all he had done, he had truly not done much wrong. He had been a fool, yes, but his greatest sin was committing unwisely to the Consortium of Enterprise, not what had come next.
He had done everything according to his honor, personal credo, and vows, and somehow, he was the villain. His teeth ground together.
“Captain Dulc, we are leaving Goisedall. Peacefully, and we will make our case to the Merchant’s Guild.”
“I can’t allow that, Captain. You’ll never get out of the city. Your arrest warrant is being spread to other cities, and this will make it a hundred times worse! Think! Have some sense! Aren’t you some heroic adventurers of honor? They’ve heard of you even this far south!”
The Drake was pleading with him, and Ylawes just stood there.
“I like to think I am, Dulc. I do. Which makes this very hard. I just wish someone would trust my word. Silver Swords—get everyone out of the city.”
He raised his shield and sword and took a step forwards. Falene’s glowing [Fireball] wavered.
“Ylawes?”
“Lad, don’t—”
The Drakes stared at the [Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon] as he advanced on Captain Dulc’s position. And they knew Ylawes was likely out of magic.
Though his sword seemed to leave a trail of vapor behind it. And he was Gold-rank. Just a Gold-ranker. Just—
“Aim—”
Captain Dulc felt a panic rising in his chest. He didn’t want to do this, but he was scared. Terrified, actually. The [Knight] was coming, and his face was set like—
“Run! R-run!”
“Hold! Hold your—”
Dulc roared, then the first officer broke ranks. His horse reared, and instead of arrows flying, he saw half the Watch throw down their weapons and—run?
The soldiers and guards on the other side were fleeing too! Screaming! Dulc was shouting.
“Hold your ground! He’s just one man! He’s j—”
Then he saw it. Not Ylawes, who stood, confused in the square, but the figure who stood behind him. Spear raised overhead, mandibles opened. Radiating pure terror as the little Goblin on his back aimed crossbows around like a Demon out of Dulc’s worst nightmares.
Infinitypear the [Horrorbane Adventurer] raised his spear over his head as he shouted.
“[I Have Seen It Die]!”
“Me too! I sure hope it dead! Run! Captain, this way! Hurry!”
Rasktooth was screeching, and the Silver Swords turned, then ran as Poke Duo went sprinting back towards the gates. Ylawes shouted.
“Infinitypear, how—?”
“Toobusyrunning!”
The Antinium screamed, but Rasktooth wasn’t running, so he shouted.
“Captain Nailren, he tell us what going on! Hurry! Hurry! Oh no! Skill ending!”
Infinitypear’s Skill did not last long. There were shouts from behind them, and the Cave Goblin whirled.
“We is now in danger! Hiyah! Eat this!”
“Don’t—”
Too late. Rasktooth fired his crossbows, and there was a whining sound—then a pop. Which was followed by a flash of light and screams.
“Eat [Flashbang Shot]! And [Retchgas Shot]! And that all my shots. Run faster, Brother! [Encouraging Pat]!”
Infinitypear ran faster as Ylawes glanced over his shoulder. Drakes were either blind or puking, but more were coming. More and more and—
Where could they go?
 
——
 
The Silver Swords were screaming out of the city, and Anlam was demanding their arrest. The [Watch Commander] was leading a group to cut them off.
“Halt, in the name of the Watch!”
He was pounding towards the gates when he ran head-first into a wall. The Drake hit the side of the huge, stone Golem, fell down, and a voice spoke.
“Oh dear. My good man, you’ve fallen down. How terribly inconvenient for you. Golems, help him up!”
More Golems moved forwards, and the Watch slammed into the other huge, lumbering figures. The Watch Commander saw Lady Safta fanning herself and sprang up.
“Out of the way! We’re hunting criminals!”
“Criminals? Dead gods. Golems, one side!”
Lady Safta’s eyes widened, and she motioned. The Golems stumped to the left and right—then one froze in the middle of the street. In theory, there was room to squeeze past them, but—the [Watch Commander] howled.
“What are you doing? Move that hunk of junk!”
“Hunk of—it’s malfunctioned due to the New Lands! Master Martz! Fix it!”
The [Golemancer] strode forwards as several nobles of House Terland surrounded the Golem. He tsked.
“Classic heart failure. I think it’s a miniature heart attack—we need disassembly and restart on the spot, stat! Move, move!”
“Get to one side! I will arrest all of you!”
The [Watch Commander] screamed, and he saw each Golems’ head snap around to him and their eyes glow—red. He froze, lowering his sword, and Lord Comigen spoke.
“I would hate to interfere in Goisedall’s matters, sir. House Terland stands aside in all but a literal way. Please, go ahead. But we are House Terland. As we know we have done nothing wrong, our Golems will escort us out of the city. Come.”
He motioned, and they began to walk, chins held high, as the malfunctioning Golem took slow steps after them. Slowly. And Comigen’s eyes were on the band of adventurers, colonists, who burst from Goisedall’s gates.
But really…the [Lord] shook his head as he saw they hadn’t even stolen horses.
Where were they going to go? There was only one place, and there were a lot of Drakes.
 
——
 
The New Lands. But it was so far. They had no provisions. And Ylawes was so tired.
“We’re not going to make it. We should have raided a stables…let’s commandeer some wagons.”
Dawil was gasping. The army of Goisedall was coming from behind them. Ylawes turned as Pekona gripped her sword.
“We’ve done nothing wrong.”
People on the road were pointing at them, staring back over their shoulders, and Ylawes Byres had sword in hand. The Drakes were running at him. Local militia. Captain Dulc riding and shouting. The Watch.
Hundreds. Maybe a thousand and more coming. Too many for them to beat, even if they had a choke point. But Ylawes…
He was just so angry. Even if it was the Merchant’s Guild doing this. Even then—he began to walk back the way he’d come.
“Lad? What are you doing? Lad—”
Dawil turned and saw the [Knight] moving at the line of Drakes. Sword held in a too-tight grip. Head bowed. And there it was.
For the watching pedestrians. The Gnoll with a bow observing the Silver Swords from the hill, the expeditioners into the New Lands, the mounted warriors on horseback, there was the moment caught in time.
Ylawes Byres raising his shield and sword as his team turned. Anger in his eyes.
That…
Classic…
Byres anger. The one that anyone who knew him could see in him, tamped down but there. The hints of fury in a good man that only Ysara had ever really mastered.
A [Knight] fighting injustice. No matter what it cost.
“It makes for a picture I should like to take to paint. Ah, if I had but more than an [Artistic Moment]—”
A voice spoke as a paint brush swished over paper and dipped into a little palette. Incredibly fast, capturing the lone figure. The Drake horde. Another voice, lower and also male, disagreed.
“A picture worth more than a thousand of these Drake words. They are barbarous indeed, despite their legislation. My conscience is affronted to see a [Knight] alone, even one of Izril! Is a [Knight] not a [Knight], friends?”
—The speakers were a group of five on horseback who sat on their saddles as Ylawes Byres slowed and his head turned. The three men, one of whom had a little easel and painter’s palette mounted to one gauntleted arm via a mechanical contraption, turned to a woman in rust-red armor. Her visor was up, and she met Ylawes’ eyes, just once.
A tingling went all the way up Ylawes’ back, to his head, and down his boots. The woman turned.
“This is indeed so! Ser Brindelhor, you speak the truth, and truth guides us! Squire, stand back.”
“But Knightess—”
“You have no control in a melee. Let us not hurt these Drakes, but stop this affront. Thousand Lances of Kaaz—forwards.”
“Gently, gently.”
That came from the last of the [Knights], and his voice was as old as his lined face as he flicked his visor down on his bell-shaped helm. Four [Knights] dismounted from their horses and strode forwards as the last gathered the reins of the other animals. They strolled forwards on parade, every facet of their armor gleaming.
A seven-foot giant who stowed his painter’s palette, armor green and embossed with trees. The half-Elf put his helmet on his head with a sigh. A shorter [Knight] had a cloak of velvet which blew across his back as he reached for a greatsword on his back, then let it go.
“Not an intègre foe we have met yet. Fists must do, inélégant as they are.”
“Let us not alarm the Walled Cities, indeed.”
The female [Knight] of the four did not draw her sword, but she did raise it. Still sheathed. The last [Knight] drew a flail and shield and rattled it lightly. Ylawes shouted.
“Watch—”
The Drakes didn’t realize this group was not part of his team. They just saw armored figures who weren’t their own and associated them with the Humans. The first one raised a spear as he charged at the old [Knight] in—
Mithril armor? The gleaming metal took the spear blow, and the Drake slammed against the butt of her own shield. Because the armor would not give or yield, and the [Knight] just walked into her.
“It goes against good conscience to hit a lady.”
He tapped her with the edge of his shield, and she fell down. The whites of her eyes showed as her eyes rolled up into her head. At this, the half-Elf raised his hands.
“Ach, they employ the fairer sex here for the Watch? You have saved me from disgrace, Lord Volede!”
The half-Elf drew a pair of longswords, also sheathed, and knocked down a Drake swinging a sword at him. When the Drake faltered and slashed up—
[Rising Slash]! The [Knight] parried the blow, thrusting the sword down into the earth. He stepped on it, then stood there.
“I shall be prudent in case I err.”
Another Drake rode down at him with a spear. Without pivoting, the [Knight] chopped the tip of the spear up. He stood there as the Watch charged him, and his swords swung.
Deflect an axe’s swing into the ground, chopping a swinging sword such that it flew out of one Drake’s hands, flicking a spear tip up so hard it took the Drake off their feet—
So fast and precise the Drakes bunched up, running into each other. Tried to surge forwards and ran into the [Knight] with the velvet cloak. He raised a fist, punched a [Soldier] in armor so hard it dented the plate, and advanced, throwing hands.
Female, male, he left a trail through the Drakes as they split in front of him. One [Soldier] rammed into him at a full charge, broke his shoulder, and was thrust aside.
The Thousand Lances split the Goisedall charge around them like a thing out of stories. Their leader was swinging her sheathed sword, ignoring blows to her Adamantium armor, as she raised a hand.
“Fairly met, Knight of Izril! We are the Thousand Lances of Kaaz! We salute your courage! A [Knight] never stands alone!”
An arrow pinged off her helmet, and she laughed. Then she whirled her longsword up.
“Ah, here’s the teeth!”
A [Fireball] split as she slashed it in half, blooming around her in bursts of flame. The [Knight] kept walking forwards as she began cutting spells out of the air.
“They’ll harm their own more than us. Dear me.”
The old [Knight] watched as a [Mage] tossed a [Lightning Bolt], then raised his mirror-bright shield and bounced it back. He winced as the bolt hit the ground and threw the [Mage].
“No barrier spells?”
“They’re not close to even one of our magical brothers. Not a single one who’d even touch the thousandth!”
Dismissively, the bare-knuckle [Knight] backhanded a Drake—the Watch was turning, trying to flee now.
Ylawes Byres stood, mouth open. Did he hear that right?
The Thousand Lances of Kaaz? The greatest [Knights] in the entire…
He knew them, of course. He’d grown up hearing stories of them, and he stood still as Captain Dulc charged the one in Adamantium. He shouted a Skill, accelerated—
She spread her arms wide. Let him hit her with a crack like thunder straight on the chest. When Ylawes looked again, Dulc was riding away, cradling a broken arm as his enchanted spear lay on the ground.
Then he realized they were the genuine article. Ylawes only moved when he heard a ding and saw an arrow flash at him—only for a slim [Knight] on horseback to cut it out of the air.
“Your side, Sir Knight! They do not fight chivalrously at all, these Drakes?”
“Squire! You are disobedient! Again! Argh. What will I do with you, girl?”
The Adamantium [Knight] shouted, and her [Squire] bowed nimbly in the saddle.
“Your infinite pardons, Knightess Rosenthine!”
Rosenthine? Ylawes started and thought he knew that—then he saw the Silver Swords were halted as well.
“Dead gods. Are those Named-rankers?”
Anith breathed, but even Dawil was wide-eyed. Of course, he was actually Terandrian. And Falene’s mouth was ajar.
“Is that Rosenthine? The Rosenthine? What are they—?”
Goisedall was in full retreat. Drakes were playing dead on the ground or getting up to run, and the tallest of the [Knights] lowered his swords, raised his visor, and a half-Elf’s merry green eyes twinkled as he turned to Ylawes.
“Dame Rosenthine, this lot appears to be routed well enough. Do we advance?”
“Nay, Thousand Lances, hold! Our battle done.”
Rosenthine called lightly, though the ‘battle’ had taken all of minutes, and the snort from the fist-knight made it clear how much of a fight he’d call that. They turned to Ylawes, and each one took their helmet off.
The half-Elf clasped fist to his chest and bowed. Rosenthine and her [Squire] bowed, arms to their sides. The one with the cloak tapped his knuckles to his visor and slashed downwards. The old [Knight] just nodded.
“We are the Thousand Lances, Knight of Izril. How are you called and how did a Drake army come to chase your company?”
Rosenthine spoke, and her [Squire] pointed.
“And is that not a Goblin and should be slain?”
Everyone turned, saw Rasktooth and Infinitypear, and the [Knights] recoiled. The half-Elf peered at Rasktooth, who had frozen up.
“A Goblin? Dead gods, Izril truly does have more than Terandria!”
“Dead now.”
The velvet-cloak [Knight] drew a greatsword so fast Ylawes thought he and Pekona would have been slower on the draw. He began to advance, and Ylawes’ sword was rising when there was another soft ping.
An arrow hit the sword that the [Squire] had drawn—again, so fast Ylawes didn’t even see it, and everyone turned. In the distance, a Gnoll standing on a hill lowered a bow and howled. Just once.
“Nailren?”
Ylawes squinted. Was that him? Only, the fur was slightly wrong, and the [Knights] turned.
 
“Yonder lies a Gnoll.”
“First I’ve seen outside of mixed company.”
“Another painting! Do they quarrel with us?”
“If they do, I hold them to account as well.”
“Hold, hold your temper, Ser Brindelhor! I think—”
 
—Then the angry [Knight] stopped lifting his greatsword, and Ylawes, still eying Goisedall’s reforming army, worrying they might come back with more preparation, felt his mind go blank.
His worries. His stress. The stunned feeling of meeting the Thousand Lances in the flesh, the awe and dismay at their overwhelming levels…
Just for a moment, it receded, and he remembered the New Lands beyond the horizon. The wind blew, and blue tuft-seeds floated down from the distant hills that were so inhospitable. The strange land that had risen from the sea.
But not for us. That was what they all forgot. Haughty [Knights]. Drakes. Adventurers. [Merchants], and everyone else.
It had been just for one people. At last, no, fast given how far they had come and how many—they came.
The howl was picked up not by one voice, a hundred, or even a thousand. The lone Gnoll [Scout] raised a paw, and then the first figures appeared over the small rise of ground.
Gnolls. Marching as clouds of dust rose and cows tromped forwards, so many cattle that they formed huge lines on each side of the Gnolls. Corralled by [Riders] on horses, and some even being ridden by Gnolls.
Not just cows. Sheep on the left, huge herds moving like the clouds themselves had come down to earth, fluffy white clouds with little black legs, or dark clouds. Even ones in blue or yellow. Sheep baahing like the quaking earth—goats—
Corusdeer, even horned buffalo-things that Ylawes had never seen before. Any animal that ate grass and could be herded. And walking between the rivers of livestock—Gnolls.
They carried much of their burdens on their shoulders, in huge packs, on pack animals, or wagons, but children and adults all strode across the ground at a steady pace that seemed like it could carry them forwards forever.
Gnolls of every color of fur. From coal black to the brilliant red that was almost regal in color, blond gleaming fur like Ylawes’ hair, classic brown, and white.
White Gnolls? Ylawes started as he saw them dotted in the tribe marching his way, who still kept coming without number. Doombearers.
So many.
Then he knew who they had to be, but he could not think. Could not do more than watch—for they did not come merely in the earthquake of hooves. Nor the braying of so many animals.
Nor even to Goisedall, whose Drakes had backed behind their walls in sudden fear, with dreadful cries. Instead, that first howl had joined a sound which became a rumble…then a song. A song that surely, everyone in the world had heard, now.
The Gnolls’ most famous song.
 
“So when my fur calls me to seek the heart of stories.
To brave the world’s dangers and lay eyes on sights unseen.
Chasing long lost trails of our trials and our glories
To find the heart of stories sang to me.”
 
——
 
Great Plains Sing. The same song that Nailren had once sang as he rode to the New Lands. The Gnoll stood on Goisedall’s walls, bow lowered, the stolen Watch helmet pushed back.
Feeling sort of stupid as he saw that tribe, who still might be called the largest in Izril, marching forwards. He rubbed at his face and sighed.
“Here comes trouble. But I guess…who else and where else?”
Then he joined the chorus that filled the air. Drowning out every other sound and bringing the colonists to silence. The Terlands standing with their little Golems like toys arrayed around them.
The Drakes hiding behind their short walls, gazing at the other people of Izril. Who came singing, reminding all who heard their voices of why the New Lands existed.
Why they were here.
Plain’s Eye. The tribe who had broken themselves on treachery and the truth, not redeemed or forgiven, but continuing on. For there was no other way.
Nailren’s eyes picked out a huge Gnoll in the center of the procession, who strode ahead, his fur marked like a [Shamanic Warrior], despite the fact that he now led them all.
Chieftain Merish, and bounding next to him, singing his heart out, a little Lizardman. Viri. Nailren sighed. For all his trepidations, complications, intellectual worries…
Dead gods, but it was such a perfect way to come to the New Lands.
 
——
 
In hindsight, it probably wasn’t Ylawes’ Skill that had created this confluence of events that saved his team.
Maybe, just maybe, you could call the Thousand Lances’ arrival part of his Skill, [Luck of the Foolhardy]. But calling on the greatest knight-order with a Skill? Unlikely.
More likely it was how he and Pekona had managed to make a romance out of some terrible lines over dinner.
This?
This was just the inevitable. Although it would be wrong to assume it was all unconnected.
Plain’s Eye kept coming. They were streaming into the New Lands without even hesitating. Driving on their herds and bearing their mobile tents, not even slowing though they knew there was no magic and no arable soil ahead.
Did it look like they cared? Their [Shamans] drew from the collective of their people; they had few artifacts to lose. And as for food…
They had animals who grazed on grass. The same grass that was so plentiful.
The perfect settlers. The ones that this land belonged to. One look at them and Ylawes Byres realized that in every way he and the others had been unprepared—the Gnolls were ready. They had lived their entire life on the move. They knew how to hunt—to forage—and they had come in such numbers that no expedition could equal them.
What was humbling, gratifying, was the fact that Plain’s Eye knew his team. Chieftain Merish raised a paw and called to him, slowing, as Gnolls kept moving around him.
“Captain Ylawes Byres? I trust that will help you. Though I do not know the particulars of your issue with the city. The Merchant’s Guild? They are a tricksome foe, yes? If you require shelter with my tribe, march with us. We head into the New Lands. Not far, I think; it is good to take a spot close to the edge. But we have made it.”
It had been months of marching and trying to salvage a tribe fallen to pieces and despair. He appeared older, and Ylawes stuttered.
“Y-you know me, Chieftain Merish?”
They had never met, but the Gnoll just nodded. He opened his mouth, and Viri bounded forwards.
“Of course we do! Your team’s a fun Gold-rank team—can I have an autograph? Plus, you know Erin Solstice, and the Horns of Hammerad were at the Meeting of Tribes! Berr the Berserker’s apprentice is your sister! When we heard you were in trouble with those Drakes—damn Drakes, they’re always doing stuff like this—Merish insisted we help! Especially because Mrsha asked!”
Mrsha. Ylawes started, and Merish grinned as he pushed Viri.
“Viri. Excuse my friend. Yes, a certain Gnoll child found us. We should never deny such a request.”
Viri had one leg and hopped around on that little quarterstaff to keep pace with everyone. He did it naturally, his tail curled around the stick, as if there were a [Bounce] spell on the bottom. It added to the effect of the hyper Lizardfolk energy he exuded, a quintessential trope of his species. He circled Merish now, chattering.
“It was weird, though, right? Somehow, she knew we were right at Goisedall when I don’t think you told anyone where we were!”
“Good scrying spells, perhaps.”
“Sure, but she looked stressed! And thin!”
“Hrr. I wonder if they’re not feeding her well enough. I sent a [Message] to Akrisa Silverfang. We’re not…friendly, but she’ll make sure the girl’s well. Let’s discuss what she said later, Viri? Our guests are here.”
“Oops, right!”
They turned back to the Silver Swords, and Ylawes frowned. Mrsha, not being fed? Maybe she’d lost weight or something, but he inclined his head.
“We’re in her debt, and yours, Chieftain Merish, truly.”
He waved this off with a smile.
“This is no great burden, and as I said, we owe a great debt we must repay. And the Silver Swords have been good friends to Gnolls as well.”
“We—uh, we have? We try to help everyone.”
“Yes. We notice.”
That was all Merish said. If there were Gnolls, even those with white fur, who flinched at Mrsha’s name or did not appear so graceful—there were just so many.
Drowned Folk, half-Elves—a third power had begun marching into the New Lands, and they swept up everyone in their trail. Even the Thousand Lances stood, suddenly forgotten, until Merish eyed them.
“Who are those [Knights]? They’re high-level.”
“The—Thousand Lances of Kaaz?”
“Who? I think I remember that name from Rhir. I served with many [Knights]…hmm. Greetings, Knights of Terandria! I am Chieftain Merish! May I break bread with you? My tribe welcomes you!”
Merish swept an arm out, and the singing Gnolls stopped a moment to howl, and the [Knights] glanced at each other.
“This is a sight worth leaving home for. Great Gnolls, you sing beautifully. We are indeed the Thousand Lances. Didst I hear tell you were one who fought the cruel Demons of Rhir? I am Ser Pavoriad of Gaiil-Drome. A [Knight] of the Order of the Forest’s Heart. With me are Ser Brindelhor of the Order of Irriven Redbloods. Lord Volede of House Trimel, of the Kingdom of Keys, Samal, a [Knight] of his own—”
The introductions had Merish blinking, but he greeted each [Knight] with a nod. It was the last duo, Dame Rosenthine and her [Squire]—a sandy-haired girl named Thellabell of all things—who spoke.
“I lead our number from glorious Kaaz, which I and my squire also hail from. We are but four of the Thousand Lances, and few of our number came to Izril—so far. But we hope to explore this land as all do. We had come to Goisedall to see what news there was; it is our honor to meet such a famous tribe.”
“And to express our dismay at such treachery at the Meeting of Tribes! By the Walled Cities and those traitorous, er—”
Ser Pavoriad began, then seemed to realize that this was one of the traitorous tribes. Merish just smiled and ducked his head.
“Your dismay is ours, and it is a wound we must heal, but not today, or for generations, perhaps. But Plain’s Eye knows what it has done, and now we seek a home where we might exist. Walk with us gladly, friends. We have met no enemies on our march.”
“I should hope not! Would other tribes or cities attack you?”
The half-Elf exclaimed, and Merish bared his teeth as he glanced at the Silver Swords. His eyes lingered on Rasktooth and Infinitypear, who were both trying to hide from the Thousand Lances and watch with mouths open, this sight of stories.
“Perhaps not for our numbers, but we have come here singing. I think it is the best way.”
Viri bounded up, interrupting the [Knights] and their practiced etiquette. He beamed.
“It’s very clever, and Merish came up with it. Very hard to attack people singing. Makes the Drakes all guilty. Was your order in Rhir? Merish and I are veterans. We were at the 5th Wall when the Death of Magic appeared.”
—What? Everyone turned to stare at him, and Merish sighed.
“Viri. Stop bragging.”
“It’s not bragging if we were the only people who lived and everyone else died.”
The Lizardman’s smile vanished a moment, and Dame Rosenthine bowed again, deeper.
“Then you are heroes twice over. I regret that few of the Thousand Lances ever join the walls. The last would be…Dame Rivia?”
The Thousand Lances murmured behind Dame Rosenthine, and Ylawes was close enough to hear them whispering.
 
“I don’t remember her.”
“Decades ago, I think. Nine hundred and thirty—something.”
“Ah. We have not covered ourselves in glory. But in this era with the Deaths, perhaps…”
“Hush ourselves. We speak of politics before this great tribe.”
 
They fell silent once more, and Merish was nodding. Rosenthine glanced about, then snapped her fingers.
“Squire, a gift worthy of the Plain’s Eye tribe.”
“Oh, um—”
“My Sword d’Esteem. No, not the Sword d’Complimente. That pack, Squire.”
Patiently, and with a sense of embarrassment, Rosenthine directed the [Squire] to produce nothing less than a sword as rust-red as—
Adamantium? Ylawes’ eyes popped, and Merish himself blinked.
“We cannot accept that, Dame Knight! And we have no gift suitable for this, yes?”
He was beckoning a [Shaman] forwards, though, and the Dame Knight smiled.
“You must, for it is a gift of our greatest esteem, and the Thousand Lances and the honor of Kaaz request nothing less. I only regret that the enchantments have faded. Almost all but our armor and weapons are lost.”
“A blow, but one we should have been steeled for. A trial of virtues to learn of our flaws.”
Ser Pavoriad intoned, and there was grunt from the surly Ser Brindelhor. Which implied that all their armor and weapons were still enchanted.
Truly powerful individuals. But Merish offered the [Knights] a simple token: a wreath of hand-made, little ‘flowers’ twisted together out of what seemed like scraps of fabric. Wool, actual flowers.
It was beautiful, but so crude that the short [Knight] grew visibly upset—until Merish spoke.
“This is all our tribe has to offer for such courtesy, [Knights]. And the hospitality of our fires and camps as long as you come amongst us. To all our friends. But lest it seem poor…it is the only triumph of truth and, perhaps, the future. These are Fatewreaths. Each one has been woven of good luck, from Doombearers. An old, old thing. So long as you bear them…you will not avert disaster or be endlessly lucky. But until they fall apart, we hope your woes will be mitigated or you given the strength to endure them.”
“A kingly gift.”
The [Squire] gasped, and the [Knights] let the wreaths lie on their bodies with far more willingness. Guilt crossed Merish’s face, then he turned.
“It is a power we are unworthy of, but our own fates have invited our current predicament. May it bring fortune to all those who deserve it. Now…let us continue. I do wish to rest in the New Lands. Captain Ylawes, would you walk with me?”
“It would be my honor, Chieftain.”
They were walking forwards when Ser Brindelhor remembered Rasktooth.
“Wait, the Goblin.”
“He’s with us, Knight. I’m Dawil, Gold-rank adventurer of Dwarfhome, and this is Falene, from Ser Pavoriad’s homeland, if I’m not a fool. That’s Rasktooth and Infinitypear of the Free Antinium.”
Dawil barred the [Knight]’s way casually, and the [Knight] hesitated.
“Well met, Dwarf. My armor is forged of your land, but a monster is a monster—”
“And an adventurer an adventurer if a [Knight]’s a [Knight]. I’m sure fine, honorable members of the Thousand Lances have heard of The Wandering Inn and Liscor? They’d listen before doing anything rash, wouldn’t they?”
Dawil’s voice was smooth, and Falene added, tripping over her words.
“That’s right! Ser Pavoriad! It’s an honor—Falene Skystrall. If I might have your word, sir?”
“Sister!”
Pavoriad strode over and hugged her, and Falene’s cheeks turned red as he lifted her off the ground and swung her around, laughing. Ylawes stared.
So Falene’s ‘brother’, ‘sister’ thing wasn’t actually just her. He’d never seen another half-Elf treat someone like family, but Pavoriad kissed her hand as he let her down.
“Do forgive me, but it’s such a delight—I thought I’d have to cross the New Lands to find more of us! Welcome, let us speak! And do you say these two venture with yours? Then I must take your word.”
“I mustn’t.”
Ser Brindelhor growled, but he hesitated as Dawil smiled at him. It was Dame Rosenthine who tapped her lips, which were deep red.
“The Wandering Inn. Hark? How do I know the name? Squire?”
“An enemy of Kaaz from the disaster at sea, Knightess? The [Innkeeper] killed the Prince of Erribathe?”
Rosenthine turned, and then her brows darkened. Dawil bit his lip.
“Ah, er…”
“And this Goblin hails from there, and you claim him as your…teammate?”
Merish had turned as the Thousand Lances inspected the Silver Swords; Rasktooth tried to climb off Infinitypear’s back—but the [Adventurer] wouldn’t let him. The female [Knight] glanced down as she turned to Dawil, and Ylawes’ Byres’ hand was raised.
“I do. I am Ylawes of House Byres, a [Knight] of no order. Dame Knight. Upon my honor, which is all I have to offer, I swear Rasktooth is as fine and true an adventurer as any you will ever meet.”
Ylawes held out a hand to shake and remembered, belatedly, he could claim to be a member of the Order of Solstice. But he had given them nothing, no dues…it didn’t feel right.
He bowed, and she inspected his hand, then took it in a firm grip. The [Knight]’s face in her square visor was not as perfect as her diction and form; her nose was at least twice-broken, and she had freckles.
But he watched her and knew she was at least Level 50. Possibly…Level 60? One of the most powerful warriors he had ever met smiled as she gazed into his eyes.
“Honor is all we are, Knight Ylawes. I take you at your word. Let us ride with these Gnolls into the New Lands.”
So saying, she stepped back, and even Ser Brindelhor let go of his greatsword with a grunt. Thusly…
Ylawes’s heart sank. And it rose. It didn’t know what to do as Pekona hugged him and Rasktooth cheered.
“I lived! Hah! No dying today!”
Was he sinking into despair as he glanced back at Goisedall and the lands where the Merchant’s Guild had painted him as a villain? Or was he rising, ascending into the New Lands as the Gnolls sang, in the company of legends?
All Ylawes knew was that despite his attempts to get away—the New Lands called him back in.
Unprepared.
Unreadied. But he had nowhere else to go. So the [Knight] drew in a breath of fresh air mixed with cattle dung because they were following the herds, and still.
He thought he could taste adventure again.

10.61 Y (2026-04-11)

“Let me tell you something, kid. I want you to remember it. It might be the most important thing you learn from your apprenticeship aside from remembering to keep a lockpick hidden in your neck spines.”
“Y-yes, Miss Qwera? I’m listening.”
“Merchants are bastards.”
“…Miss Qwera?”
“That’s it. That’s the lesson. I know you think you understand it, or you think I’m being cute, but you don’t get it. I want you to remember that when we go in there, and if you’re smart, you’ll figure out what it means by the time we’re done. Now…give me a second.”
The Golden Gnoll stopped outside of the largest and most impressive building that the young [Trader], Selchess, had ever seen in her life. Qwera barely peered up at the fifteen hanging Dragongems casting arcs of color across the silk brocade fabric arches that hung over the walkways of Chemath Marble.
She stopped to fish out a [Message] scroll as rain battered the [Bubble of Calm] overhead. A spring storm was hitting Zeres, but not here. That should have meant Zeresian citizens were running here to take cover from the sleeting rain, but the Guard Golems didn’t admit anyone who wasn’t carrying an official Merchant’s Card. You didn’t have to even flash it at them; it was one of those secret things that non-[Merchants] and even [Traders] had no idea about.
Carry one of them and you’d be recognized by anyone from the Merchant’s Guild. Selchess didn’t have one, but Qwera did. It meant she was important.
So important that she could enter the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters—not just the Merchant’s Guild proper. Selchess was very nervous as she hurried to keep up with Qwera. The young [Apprentice Trader] knew that the Golden Gnoll was famously mean—she went through [Apprentices] like gold paint, but you could become a [Trader] with good credit in a year if you stuck it out and got her recommendation.
Which was not a given. Less than 30% of all Qwera’s [Apprentices] made it. And she demanded at least five years’ experience caravanning before she’d take your application, no matter if you had a Merchant’s Guild letter from your local city. Plus, you had to come up with an item to sell via her Golden Gnoll caravans and make a return of at least 40% net profit within the year…
Qwera was a numbers-[Merchant]. In that she talked math, dividends, investments, gross and net profit—some [Merchants] didn’t do that.
You see, the world of [Merchants] was deeper than you thought. There were all kinds, like [Warriors] or any class. Some [Merchants] were terrible with numbers. But they were charismatic and sold to nobles who valued friendship and had enough gold to spend.
Or they were hard-nosed desperados who went into [Bandit] territory and risked the deadliest routes for the highest margins. The plump, inoffensive [Merchants] selling goods from a caravan in the city were actually a very narrow subset of their kind.
But what they all aspired to be was what Qwera was: a card-carrying [Merchant] who could walk into one of two buildings in Izril, the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters, and get intelligence on any good or service across Izril. Be able to recruit top-tier [Mercenaries] or adventurers at the drop of a hat, and run caravans across the continent, even the world.
However, Qwera didn’t seem to like it here, which was astonishing because the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters was amazing.
Selchess was Liscorian. She’d begged an apprenticeship when Qwera was passing through the city, and the Golden Gnoll had waived her standards on the five-years caravanning and accepted the young Drake. She’d said that if Selchess had survived Liscor, she’d probably handle herself well on the road.
One minor [Thief] incident, two brawls between caravans, and a nasty internal fight in one of Qwera’s caravans later, and the Golden Gnoll hadn’t been let down so far by Selchess. True, Selchess hadn’t been rushing to throw hands with an angry shopper fighting with the [Guards], or the one to run down the [Sneak Thief], but she hadn’t exactly wilted either.
It sure beat fighting Face-Eater Moths or running from Raskghar in the streets. Selchess hadn’t even realized it had toughened her up until she’d seen another [Apprentice of Commerce] reduced to a tearful mess after someone had punched the stall next to her head. When what you really did was smile, lie, wait for a [Guard] to come running, and have your hand under the counter on the emergency wand you were issued.
Experience, Qwera called it. Real experience, not book-knowledge. Get conned—once. Get cheated—once. Get mugged—once. And never let it happen again. Never put all your stock in one place or you could lose it all. Get people’s attention and you had their coins.
By these principles the Golden Gnoll had made her fortune, and Selchess was one of her acolytes who’d bought Qwera’s book and was now in the business.
Even so, she had learned to fear Qwera’s scowl, and the Golden Gnoll rolled up her [Message] scroll.
“Right. Meeting’s in ten. Let’s get in there. You’ll be outside. Don’t tell the other apprentices anything. They’re going to pump you for information. So will the staff. Just lie to them. Tell them we’re selling Shield Spider glue.”
“A-aren’t we selling Shield Spider glue, Miss Qwera?”
“Exactly. If they think that’s the biggest thing coming out of Liscor—well, some are that dumb. Remember what I told you, which is?”
“…Merchants are bastards?”
Qwera pointed a finger as they passed through another arch, this one made of swords. She rolled her eyes, and Selchess’ eyes popped as she saw Sage’s Grass, gigantic pumpkins, beautiful corn—every plant imaginable blooming from a garden plot. The third arch was made of old wood and beautiful coral, and Qwera kicked it as she passed.
“Damn right we are. Stop gaping.”
“Merchant! It’s so beautiful—”
“Looted is what it is. Or copied. You think this is fancy? What are the giant gems up there?”
“Dragongems, Merchant Qwera?”
The highest grade of magical gemstone, so huge and powerful that [Archmages] used them in spells. Tier 7 spells, according to the legends. No one these days could actually use one. Qwera nodded.
“What’s the weather spell?”
“[Bubble of Calm]?”
Selchess had heard of the Merchant’s Guild. Qwera pointed up.
“That first arch? Cloth is…”
“Brocade? For, um, um, tapestries! Stitch-folk sometimes will take it for their cloth, but it’s not actually as popular because it’s heavy and stiff. But that much is worth a fortune, and in the open air! It must be enchanted against mildewing. And is that a floating fountain?”
They passed by a pyramid of stone that held a basin in the center, whose waters were spraying across the air. Another [Merchant] entering the headquarters stopped to fill a water flask from it—Qwera rolled her eyes.
“Yep. Now, apprentice, real quiz time.”
“T-that wasn’t the quiz? Oh dear…”
“Where’s it come from? [Bubble of Calm]—go.”
Selchess panicked. She stood there, knowing Qwera was going to snap at her if she didn’t answer—but again, it wasn’t exactly like Draugr breaking down the city walls, so her rushed mind came to the only conclusion she had.
“U-um, Wistram?”
“Correct! Dragongems?”
“They look…I’ve heard they come from Salazsar, and I know the City of Gems has them. Actually, don’t all the Walled Cities have some for their best enchantments—?”
“Correct! Garden of plants?”
“I don’t…I’ve never heard of them before.”
“Hmpf. Drath. Eternal Verdant Gardens of Some Shit. Floating fountain’s from Baleros, Lizardfolk. Second gate with the swords is supposed to be Terandrian, but I think they just ran out of ideas. Third gate?”
“It has to be Drowned Folk. Oh, so this is—”
Qwera folded her arms.
“All stolen. Not anything literally, but the ideas. You see? We’re as good as Wistram, as elegant as Drath, as, I don’t know, able to afford Golems as House Terland. The Guild changes the front every few decades. I heard we once used to have Djinni servants. Guess how that went.”
“But it’s still amazing, Qwera. Did Zeres pay for any of it?”
“Nope. Like I said, it’s ours. Merchants. You think we mined those Dragongems? Enchanted that magic? We don’t know how to swing swords, most of us. We don’t make things. We’re good at buying and selling, that’s all. The people here forget that. So bear in mind what I said. This is going to be unpleasant, anyways. I hate it here.”
She cracked her neck, sighing. Selchess didn’t see how Qwera could say that. The Drake glanced over her shoulder.
“But aren’t there all kinds of amenities here? And all the greatest [Merchants] would be here or in First Landing’s Guild…”
“Yep. Which means I’d feel more at home in a dive filled with [Rogues] and [Cutthroats]. I’m not the biggest fish in this pond; far from it. I only managed to scrounge enough gold to qualify for Headquarters membership two years ago. You have to stay above a certain amount in their accounts, or have it in all your investments, at least.”
The Golden Gnoll could barely afford a membership here? Another gulp from Selchess, but Qwera was speeding through the other symbolic arches that represented peoples the Merchant’s Guild traded with—and made a profit off of.
“Should I keep my eyes out for anything, Qwera? Or be wary of anything?”
She nearly slammed into Qwera’s back, and the Golden Gnoll stopped to give her an approving look.
“There’s that Liscorian survival instinct, I guess. Good! Keep your earholes open for good gossip, though most people will be playing the same game as I am. New items on display, yes. Mostly…any big players from other continents. Everyone’s come for the New Lands, and I want to know the field. Well, I’ll find out soon enough. Where’s the [Pianist]? Ah, perfect. I have arrived!”
She reached the glass double doors of the Merchant’s Guild, threw them open before a staff member could open them, and shouted into the Guild’s entryway. Then she smiled as [Merchants] and lesser [Traders] jumped and turned to her, annoyed, envious, and someone began to play.
 
——
 
Qwera did know how to make an entrance. And with respect to what she’d said to Selchess, she might not be the biggest player, but impressions were everything.
A lot of her peers had no style. They swanned in, expecting their wealth to do all the talking for them, and it did work on the sycophants whose noses were shoved so far up other people’s rectums they’d lost all sense of taste as well. But Qwera?
She knew she needed to command respect today, which was why the Gnoll at the piano began playing the moment she came in, and she triggered a full spread of her favorite illusion spells.
Golden Gnoll! The light hit her golden fur and sent sparkles up and down the Guild’s walls. Several twirling golden serpents exploded in the air—silently—because the piano was singing.
It was the most complex melody that they had, something from Earth that showcased the dynamic range. Music beyond any harpsichord that told any [Merchant] who heard it that this was a new instrument; the gleaming finish on the black piano as the [Pianist]’s hands danced across the keys in a spotlight?
Ah, she loved showing off. Qwera grinned. It was twice as sweet, because it was an object she knew the others had no chance of obtaining.
Only one group was making pianos in the entire damn world, and this Earth-tech device was not something you could buy with coin alone. Three had gone up for auction from the Meeting of Tribes until now, and this one, a fourth, had gone to a trusted [Merchant] who was actually liked by the tribes: Qwera.
She had no intention of selling it unless the Serpentine Matriarch herself decided she absolutely needed it; she could have those whims, and in that case, Qwera would probably sell it for a hundred thousand gold pieces or something ridiculous and give the [Treasurer] of Zeres’ Admiralty a heart attack.
But it was more useful to show off, anyways. Qwera blew kisses as Selchess stood there, open-mouthed and gazing around the vast entry hall with its three layers of open balconies, air-conditioned seating, statues of famous [Merchants] who’d come before, free drinks, scrying spells with views of other Merchant’s Guilds across the world…
This used to be more impressive a year or two ago. These days, [Scrying] spells were so common that the round mirrors almost seemed tacky, out-of-date. There was discomfort there that Qwera picked up on as [Merchants] eyed her piano and tried to go back to pretending they were so important you had to talk to them. They glanced at the scrying spells, then checked personal, compact scrying devices.
One [Trader] even unfolded a six-piece scrying mirror that he mounted on one arm via a little gauntlet. It was a mirror that you could fold up to stow away, and when unpacked, it was a huge screen to watch the news on.
Stupid. Pointless. The folding probably means it breaks or chips far more easily. A cheap attempt to cash in on the scrying fad by going impressive. Plenty of people will look at it, but only a few without any taste will actually buy it.
Qwera’s instincts told her that even as her [Inspection: Market Viability] Skill told her that the [Trader] had managed to sell this particular item three times. Total.
That was how this Merchant’s Guild ran. Everyone pretended, everyone tried to sucker the others, but real power often was recognizable. Qwera lifted a hand, and the frantic [Pianist] stopped playing, because she’d made her point.
Besides, they couldn’t actually play the entire song of Paganini/Liszt – Etude No. 6; it was far too complex for a new musician. Point made, Qwera strode forwards as an underling ran up to her.
“Merchant Qwera, do refrain from excessive—”
“One side.”
Qwera pointed, and the junior stopped, stepped aside, and Qwera spoke.
“I’m here for my meeting. Give my apprentice full services, and I want everything on the New Lands you’ve got. I need a good [Carpenter] for my wagons and connections with a [Mage] of repute who specializes in enchanting. Like hell I’m going into the New Lands and losing my magic.”
Heads turned as she spoke loudly, not caring to whisper, and the Drake man wrote frantically.
“Very good, Merchant. Do you require a list of our adventurers or [Mercenaries] for—”
“If I needed them, I’d have reached out months ago! Shoo!”
He shooed. Qwera didn’t normally hold with treating the help badly, but the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters staffed their guild with sycophants who reported everything you did. Her head was turning, and she spotted the only person she did like in the entire place so far, standing with the [Pianist]. The woman seemed quite uncomfortable, probably because they’d hassled her, but no one could eject the woman standing with the piano, because she was Qwera’s partner and guest.
Ysara Byres had re-dyed her purple hair and put on some of the Silversteel that had given her her nickname. Ysara the Silver Trader. She and Qwera were almost made to partner up, thematically. But she wasn’t as high-ranking a [Merchant] as Qwera, albeit a very good one, and her arms were folded, one finger tapping the sword at her side.
“Qwera, there you are. The meeting’s in—”
“I know. I’ll try to get you in. Just relax. Casual, Ysara.”
The woman was visibly unhappy as Qwera and Selchess approached. A crowd was gathered around the piano, and Qwera smiled as some turned to her.
“Like the piano? Straight out of the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Fascinating, Merchant Qwera, is it? How do you do? Merchant Brevess, one of the top [Merchants] in Zeres!”
A Drake offered her a claw, smiling too wide—he was elderly, and Qwera inspected him. Touched the Card of Fortune’s Chosen hidden behind her belt as she rested one hand on her colorful sash and shook his clawed hand.
…Nothing. [Prospective Client] showed him as a bright sparkle in her eyes, so he was a top [Merchant] in Zeres, probably.
Not a card-carrying member. He was trying to imply he was, but she just smiled at him.
“If you’d like to make me an offer, Merchant Brevess, go ahead! It’s one of four in the world, and I intend to wow the Serpentine Matriarch with it before I go.”
His face flickered as Ysara glanced at Qwera, and that was how lower-level [Merchants] acted. Brevess coughed.
“You have an invitation to the Wavesent Palace? I thought you only arrived in the city today…getting one is very difficult, you know. But I could perhaps procure—”
Qwera threw back her head and laughed, loudly, because she was already done with this conversation. She wanted to talk to a real player.
“Oh, you sweet summer’s child. Invitation? The Serpentine Matriarch knows me—I tend to make an impression! I’ll just have the grand piano—grand piano, mind you—installed in a plaza. Playing it for half a day will get enough attention for that. Ah, my [Pianist], Vrozerr here, will certainly level. Vrozerr, bow for the audience! Don’t let them touch the keys. They’re ivory.”
Merchant Brevess didn’t know how to respond to Qwera’s superior attitude as she turned away from him, clearly dismissing the Drake. He turned pale, then his scales flushed dark.
“Why, the nerve! I’ve never been spoken to like—you’re as coarse as the roads you travel, clearly! In Zeres, there’s such a thing as respect, you know!”
Qwera was debating how to deal with the Drake when there was a long, amused chuckle, and someone else strolled past Brevess, parting the crowd with a wave of his hand. Well, the giant, stomping Golem with a huge sword mounted directly onto its arm helped.
“Respect is for members, Merchant whomever you are. Go back to Zeres’ Merchant’s Guild. We don’t recognize age here.”
Brevess paled, and the [Merchant], who had a tunic of rather simple grey but an extraordinary decoration over his heart—an embroidered, clockwork Golem’s Heart of magic and gears—nodded to Qwera.
This time, her Card of Fortune’s Chosen vibrated as they locked eyes, and she saw him smile. The Human man bowed slightly.
“Merchant Freirgat, [Esteemed Trader of Cabochon Hearts]. Normally of First Landing. In service to the Terlands, though I am still my own agent. Rerum possessionem capere.”
“Oh, the Golem Merchant himself. I think we met in First Landing the last time I was there. I washed my paws of trying to sell Golems. They look nice, walk themselves, but the margins just were not there for me. Somnia possessionis vendere, Freirgat.”
She finished the Merchant Guild’s slogan as the two shook hands, utterly ignoring the Drake, and the man smiled. Six of his teeth had been replaced by colorful replacements shaped to look like the enamel, but were some precious stone.
Not the clear jewels you might assume, but stone of a more varied kind. Like…lapis lazuli, instead of a straight sapphire, with little gradients baked into the stone, polished until the minerals gleamed.
“Here I thought I was ostentatious.”
He laughed, and she wondered if he had a charm Skill or just knew the score. Either way, she warmed to him ever-so-slightly as he swept a hand out.
“Everyone thinks it’s a way to advertise my stones, which is fair enough. But in truth, I just lost the teeth in a bar fight when I was a younger man. I thought having a Golem meant I was immune from being punched repeatedly in the face if I was nose-to-nose with someone. May I steal your time? Lovely piece. Grand Piano? How’d you get the Gnolls to sell you one? All the Terlands were badgering me to get one, but I made zero headway.”
“By being a Gnoll. And by being rather in with their leadership.”
“You wouldn’t happen to know if I could get one…? No, at those prices it would be far better to wait. It’s just like the bicycle phenomenon. You know, I bought two on a lark? I was 56th in line with Solar Cycles—and I still made a profit you wouldn’t believe! One sold in First Landing, the other one for any noble who wanted to ride on it. Until an idiot rode it into the harbor.”
He sighed, and Qwera grinned.
“That’s Earth-tech for you, especially this year, it feels. Slap a marker on anything that you can claim fits the bill and it’s a 300% margin at least.”
Earth. She spoke the word into the air, and all the people listening except for Freirgat, two of the staff, and one [Trader] in the far back didn’t know what that meant. But Qwera and Freirgat glanced at a Chandrian Stitch-man, then at each other, and his eyes flickered.
“—Well, of course. Merchant Qwera, are you in this meeting I’ve been called to? I thought it was some small matter I wouldn’t even bother to attend, but I’m reconsidering if the Golden Gnoll’s joining.”
“It’s personal. I know some of the parties involved. Trader Ysara here, my partner in crime, is related to them. Ysara, Freirgat.”
“The Silver Trader of House Byres?”
Brows rose as Freirgat went to kiss Ysara’s hand. She held her hand out, and he changed quickly to a handshake. Very adaptable. Ysara was a touch cool as she smiled.
“I hope you haven’t heard anything poor of me up north. It’s been a long time since I went home, let alone to First Landing, Freirgat.”
“Not at all. Rather, I know some [Lords] who still have dueling scars. I’d say young [Lords], but, argh, we’re all reaching up there in years! Don’t you run the Bloodfields?”
“Occasionally.”
He shuddered.
“Dead gods. But that’s an experience in and of itself. I’ve been trying to hire on with experienced [Traders] now that I have my eyes on the New Lands, but this blow about the magic…terrible, utterly terrible. I was just talking to a Lord Comigen who told me of a disastrous expedition. But there are opportunities as well. Golems bleed magic, but their Golem Hearts regenerate just enough to make them a viable asset.”
“Really?”
Ysara and Qwera were fascinated. Freirgat went to touch a ring on his hand, but caught himself and glanced around at the people scavenging their conversation with clear amusement.
“Oh, naturally. It would make any Golem more of a target, and the Golem’s Hearts won’t allow them to defend themselves, but it is a way to keep some magic in the New Lands. Now, I don’t consider that a particularly attractive proposition, but if you two had some venture, I’d be willing to join in.”
“We’re not planning on delving deep. There’s more gold to be found in the cities. Qwera’s sent three caravans laden with food, and that’s enough profits for me.”
Ysara murmured. Qwera chuckled.
“Two with profits that have me scrambling, one waylaid. It is why I rely on Ysara here. Her caravan ladies can swing a sword. My [Guards] do well enough, but not for this…do you use only Golems on patrol?”
“Heavens, no. They’re too slow. I have a few higher-grade ones.”
“Sentient-class?”
Ysara was interested, and Freirgat began to answer when Brevess and two other Drakes dressed to the nines tried to enter into the conversation.
“I say, is this business with the New Lands about the, ah, troubles encountered there? I’ve heard it’s not all roses and exploration.”
All three turned to the Drakes, and Freirgat’s voice was flat.
“You mean the mana-drain and salted ground.”
“I—er—”
The ‘secret’ of the New Lands that the trio thought they were part of hung in the air, and no one blinked an eye. Freirgat turned to Qwera, tapped his Ring of Hush pointedly, and continued talking.
“Actually, Sentient-class isn’t how they’re categorized. That’s all in the…mind of the Golem, really. There’s other classifications, Lady Byres.”
“Oh, don’t call me that.”
“My apologies. I’m in possession of some of those serving-models, you know? Imagine the ceramic ones that can set a table in House Terland. Mine are wood—it’s far more economic given that wear and tear and damage do occur—and they’re all technically Autonomous-class, but so well made you’d never realize it. They can rub down horses, fight back, even sell goods, though you do not wish to try that without someone keeping an eye on them.”
He shuddered.
“Clockwork-types. You’d call the rough ones Sculpture-type Golems, whereas my bodyguard here is Artifact-type. More magic functions.”
“Fascinating.”
Qwera really couldn’t care less about the Golems at the moment, but she was always in the market for a good bodyguard or asset—just not now. She leaned over to Freirgat.
“Let’s talk New Lands later. Though—who’s the Chandrarian?”
“I don’t know, but he’s one of a number I’ve seen passing through here. Clearly, he understands the Earth situation too. Have you ever met an Earther, or whatever they are? House Terland is abuzz about them, but I wasn’t sure if they were asking me to kidnap one or what.”
Freirgat adjusted his tunic with a grimace, clearly uncomfortable, and Ysara and Qwera exchanged perfectly innocent glances.
“Met one? I can’t say I have. Then again, the piano told us that the Meeting of Tribes knew at least one.”
Ysara was learning. Well, she’d never been bad at the job, just not as deep in the Guild politics as Qwera. Freirgat eyed her, sighed, and swept a hand out.
“I believe the meeting’s starting. A fair word of warning: I’m not sure we are on the same side here, Qwera? Then again, I’m open to suggestions.”
They walked out of his [Hush] spell, and Selchess followed, anxious. Qwera snorted.
“We’re all bastards here, Freirgat. I’ll bet the Guild will say it’s siding with us, but what I see—impartially even to the fact that they’re friends of mine—is idiocy. What makes us look bad hurts us, and this is not the time to trade reputation for gold coins.”
“I like that. Very well. He is part of my Guild, the Merchant, um…well, one of the six. But I never cared for him. Related, you said? Ah, of course. House Byres. Do you know, Trader Ysara, that your sister is all the buzz with the nobles? Especially the female ones.”
Ysara managed a smile as they headed into the guild, towards one of the meeting rooms. There were hardly more secure places in the world, and the [Guards] eyed her sword—and Qwera’s and Freirgat’s protections—but didn’t say a word as they passed. The Silver Trader gestured to her bag of holding.
“Do you sell the t-shirts with Yvlon on them, Freirgat? It might be a bit below your usual line of quality, but they sell surprising numbers, north and south. All of my [Caravaners] have one of her. They’re, um, rather taken with her.”
Since Ysara tended to hire mostly female [Caravaners], [Guards], and so on to work with her, all of whom were of a certain…Turnscale proclivity, Qwera grinned. If Freirgat got what that meant, he just smiled and shook his head politely.
“Perhaps I should—Golems are not exactly popular with the fair sex outside of House Terland, and it would be an excellent introduction. Do you have an autograph of hers, by chance? No? Pity. I would love to hear some stories about her.”
“You’d be surprised. She was far more mild-mannered when she was younger. I was the wild child.”
“Dead gods. But then again, I know House Byres, and I’m surprised it produced anyone like, er, well—”
Another smile that Ysara had to clearly force.
“I think it is surprising, but not unexpected to me, Freirgat. Shall we?”
They’d reached Meeting Room 3, and Qwera strode for the doors. She was mostly naked anyways, to better flaunt her golden fur, but Ysara was adjusting her clothing—until one of the [Guards] spoke.
“Members only, with apologies.”
“Oh, come now. We both vouch for her.”
Freirgat objected with a frown, and the [Guard] bowed.
“Apologies, sir. One of the members requested the change at the last-minute.”
“Damn. I guess that’s how it has to be, Ysara. Don’t worry.”
Ysara was clearly unhappy, but Freirgat and Qwera walked through the doors as they opened and closed. The moment they entered the room where two other [Merchants] were waiting in the flesh and two more were speaking from scrying orbs, Qwera felt all the little alarm bells in her head go off.
Wash my fur, but I don’t like this. She’d been hoping to get a Headquarters flunkie and a few annoying idiots at worst. But the moment she saw the woman in the scrying orb, sitting in a huge office with a view of a harbor, with a glass of whiskey in hand and a shard of Everfrozen ice in it, and that banner draped behind her, of chains before a harbor, the symbol of Roshal—
She realized the Merchant’s Guild really should have reviewed its membership criteria.
 
——
 
Slave Lady Andra was a [Merchant]. She was one of good standing, but not known to Izril’s Merchant’s Guild, clearly. Her presence was odd, and she was…unsettling.
Exactly how wasn’t clear at first. She was dressed up in one of those modern suits that Magnolia Reinhart had popularized, though she had chosen a blood-red outfit instead of pink, and she appeared middle-aged.
Her office was extravagant. Aside from the huge flag with Roshal’s symbol hanging above her desk, there was a view of Lailight Scintillation behind her, an oasis of colors surrounded by an emerald sea compared to the dry land of Chandrar around it. The rest of the room was fit for any monarch: huge shelves of books and trophies flanked the working area where Andra sat. Contrasting the rather rich, ornamental decor were just…desks.
Desks and cabinets scattered about the room. Each one set up for a single person. Like a command room fit for one, and the wheeled chair the half-Elf sat on could flick to any one required.
The wealth made Andra seem more like a [Lady] or a [Merchant] who’d given up caravanning, but Qwera wasn’t fooled. She knew the [Slave Lady] the moment she’d seen her, but it was the presence, again, that was so offputting.
Andra…weighed down the room. Eyes would turn to her. You’d default to addressing her instead of anyone else. It was like she possessed a gravity and authority that had everyone having to fight to defer to her. And, it felt to the [Merchants], she was better than they were.
In terms of the one unit they all respected: wealth. If they were little towers of it, building up their small companies, she was an empire of it, the fountain from which it flowed.
Respect me. Obey me. Listen to me. Her dispassionate eyes seemed to find the room both boring and engaging enough for her to sit there, sipping her wine. Like…a woman inspecting this scene to find any worth in it.
She unnerved the representative, Merchant Bester, the Drake representing the Guild, and everyone else in the room. Qwera’s hair was fully on end—she was the only Gnoll. There were two Humans, two Drakes, and the half-Elf. Andra.
Freirgat of First Landing, a Merchant Rebrent, Slave Lady Andra, Merchant Bester, and the last, a Merchant Lilstreica of Oteslia. She was a Drake and nodded to Qwera as the meeting began. Bester cleared his throat a few times.
“We are, ah, gathered here to discuss the matter of one Consortium of Enterprise’s complaint against their employees, namely the Silver Swords, a Gold-rank team. It has come to the Merchant Guild’s attention that there is a matter of disagreement over how the matter should be resolved. Merchant Qwera, you had voiced an objection. Merchant Rebrent, you are vouching for the Consortium of Enterprise, who is in turn represented by Merchant Anlam, the only known member who is alive or in contact at this moment. Tragic, tragic…he can be summoned for testimony if need be. Merchant Qwera, you have the floor to speak.”
So that was her opponent. Rebrent seemed like a typical big-caravanner from the north, used to buying and selling in bulk and being able to command better margins than smaller groups. To be fair, that was her model, and she bared her teeth at him as he nodded stiffly and held a handkerchief over his nose.
Not for her; his eyes flickered to the half-Elf, and it was Lilstreica who raised a claw.
“Er, may I ask a question?”
Bester nodded at her. He was the final judge and jury in this room; the Merchant’s Guild was adjudicating this dispute, but if they wanted to do something, they’d do it. However, if every [Merchant] in here objected…the members had power. A powerful member could probably overrule the entire room.
Qwera would have guessed that Freirgat was near the top, or Lilstreica, but she had no read on Andra’s position. She felt powerful but Qwera would have heard of her name; she knew a lot of the top [Merchants] from Chandrar by reputation. This woman was a stranger…
“I know we’re all [Merchants] here, but who is our guest? That…she appears to be high-level, but she’s not from Izril, or I’d know about her.”
Bester jumped as Lilstreica said what everyone was thinking. He wiped at his brows.
“Er, Merchant Andra—”
“Slave Lady Andra. I insist on my proper title, Representative Bester.”
The woman interrupted with a cold, no-nonsense voice. She flicked a painted fingernail up towards the banner and smiled with evident pride in who she was. Well, that just settled how Qwera felt about the woman. Bester jumped.
“Slave Lady, yes. She is a member of the Merchant’s Guild. A very old member, in fact, who reactivated her membership recently.”
“…How old?”
Lilstreica gestured at Andra, and Bester licked his lips.
“Er, thousands of years old, it would appear. Slave Lady Andra is on the books as being an active member during the Creler Wars.”
Six thousand years ago. The knowledge filled the room with silence until someone laughed incredulously. Qwera felt her anxious stomach roiling harder.
Because…she wasn’t sure that she saw all that age in the half-Elf’s face, but there was something there. The power. Lilstreica turned her head.
“I haven’t heard of her. Not once. I know the top [Slave Lord] in Roshal is Emir Yazdil. What…let’s assume this is true. She just reappears one day, claiming to be the same Slave Lady Andra and she gets her old roles back? Did you check her identity?”
Bester mopped at his brows as Andra smiled.
“Yes, I believe there was a thorough investigation. It is an extraordinary circumstance given the gap in time…but that is not actually a way to lose membership, Merchant Lilstreica. Lady Andra reactivated her membership, and she is in good standings with Chandrar’s Merchant’s Guilds and, ah, quite interested in the goings-on in Izril. She has voted in every meeting for the last month.”
He had a rather hunted expression on his face, and Qwera felt uneasy. Every meeting? Most [Merchants] hated being called into the procedural votes, which were often disputes between local Guilds or the like. But if you wanted to spend your time, you could curry a lot of favor with people by interceding, probably like what Rebrent was doing.
Great, we have someone from Roshal who’s willing to play politics all day. She should tell someone.
…Who? The Wandering Inn? The Meeting of Tribes? Roshal wasn’t anyone’s enemy, except maybe Erin Solstice’s, but one look at the woman made Qwera feel like they were diametrically opposed.
Her instincts said someone needed to be aware and opposing this woman.
That left only Qwera.
Great. But she smiled at Andra as if they couldn’t be enemies at all, because telling the woman they were enemies was the worst move of all.
“Chandrarian Merchants. We didn’t have that until the New Lands started rising. Does the Headquarters allow foreign interference into our matters, Bester? No offense, Lady Andra, but I’m just protective of our authority.”
That got nods from everyone in the room, but the Slave Lady replied, again stiff as a pole.
“It is the policy of the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters of Izril to allow any [Merchant] to weigh into disputes where their businesses are represented. A number of Chandrarian [Merchants] I am affiliated with, as well as those registered to my city, are going to the New Lands. I find Izril’s matters of great import. If the Izrilian Guild decides to curtail my participation, that is their decision.”
The most narrow-straight, no-nonsense answer you could ask for. Bester spread his claws.
“We have made no deliberations on this point…if you have an objection, Miss Qwera?”
Andra watched Qwera as the Golden Gnoll shook her head instantly. And then hid a smile as someone else spoke.
“I have an objection! This…this [Slave Lady] has no bearing on this case! And she is rather—distracting! I am representing my friend, Anlam, and my fellow [Merchants] from Invrisil’s Merchant’s Guild! I request the removal of outsiders at once!”
Rebrent snapped, and instantly, Andra jotted something down on her papers. He glared at Qwera as Bester lifted his claws.
“Merchant Qwera has ties to the Silver Swords—”
“Non-entities like that thing and the others.”
He meant Lilstreica and lost her support instantly too. Only Freirgat was immune to Rebrent’s objections, and Qwera snorted.
Idiot. The problem was…he had contracts on his side. Bester snapped back.
“Merchant Rebrent, no member will be excised from this room. Let us begin laying out the issue at hand. Merchant Qwera?”
 
——
 
When you got down to it, it was a simple problem. Qwera explained it without real objection from even Rebrent.
“Some [Merchants] tried to strike while the iron was hot. They headed into the New Lands before anyone knew about the mana drain or salted earth. It was a bad investment from the start, but they didn’t know when to quit.”
“Poor fools.”
Freirgat murmured. Lilstreica shook her head.
“Were they planting?”
“They intended to. They had just enough provisions for a first harvest. My understanding is, ah, a harvest was attempted as supplies dwindled.”
Rebrent muttered, and everyone shuddered. Lilstreica shook her head.
“Oteslia has been slammed for food orders. Even our gardens can’t keep up—! It’s not just how many people want to go on an expedition, it’s how much food has been lost. Spoiled when the Chests of Holding fail! So, this Expedition of Commerce…?”
“The Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions, I believe.”
Bester remarked, and even Lady Andra’s lips twisted. Qwera sighed.
“—They made a mistake. But their real mistake was staying. Everyone started to starve, and they refused to leave. That’s when the contracts began being used. The Silver Swords were coerced into staying.”
“Coerced…”
“Contract chains.”
“Dead gods, someone actually used one of those? Those are old contracts on the books!”
Freirgat was astonished, and Qwera eyed him.
“They’re more common than you think on long-haul caravanning. But forcing people to stay and starve went as well as you could expect. The Silver Swords broke the contract.”
“They attacked the Consortium’s members, staged a revolt, broke into their personal property, stole the expedition’s supplies, and fled, Merchant Qwera.”
Rebrent corrected her, and Qwera snorted.
“Your friends wanted everyone to starve to death. One of their members begged for escort! I have all of this on truth stone, and you know, we could have just left it there. Instead, some idiot called down an entire Drake city on all the members of the expedition, and we have arrest warrants sent to dozens of cities! I say call it off. This is making us look bad.”
That was her case. She felt like it was an easy thing to grasp, and Freirgat, Lilstreica, both seemed to be receptive, but Slave Lady Andra…
“According to the deposition of Merchant Anlam, the Silver Swords were unfaithful to the spirit and letter of the contract, hence his desire for both their arrest and arrangement of servitude-contracts. He is correct under the contracts—the Silver Swords testified to the Adventurer’s Guild under truth stone they were coerced and in a position of life or death. Where does the Headquarters stand on this issue, Bester?”
She spoke as the Drake chewed his lip.
“We acknowledge the Adventurer’s Guild’s complaint, which they have raised, of course…but the Consortium were all members of the Guild in good standing. Setting a precedent where any hired contractors can abandon our members in the New Lands would be a terrible example.”
Qwera slammed a fist on the table.
“As would chasing down a Gold-rank team to the ends of the earth. It looks bad! It ruins our reputation.”
“You’re just backing them because of your personal connections, Merchant!”
Rebrent sneered at her, and she barked back.
“And you’re trying to bail out your buddies! Don’t play favoritism with me! Listen to me. Who here knows Merchant Anlam or the other members? What’re their names?”
She peered around, and Freirgat raised a hand.
“I knew Merchant Lolsed, who is part of my guild.”
She nodded at him.
“Famous, was he? Well-liked publicly?”
A shrug from the Golem Trader.
“Publicly, I doubt anyone knew him. Within the Guild…he was fairly successful. Not a member, but he might have gotten there before he retired.”
Then he’d be like Bester, a member of management throwing his power around there because he didn’t want to hack it actually selling goods. Qwera nodded.
“Now, the other side is the Silver Swords. A Gold-rank team. Who knows them?”
Everyone had to raise their hands, even Slave Lady Andra, to Qwera’s surprise, except Lilstreica, who tilted her head.
“The Silver Swords…are they related to the Silver Killer of Izril?”
“Brother to her. Sister of Trader Ysara, who’s in business with Qwera here.”
Freirgat informed her, and the Drake’s expression lit up.
“You don’t say? I’d love an autograph or to chat—”
“Ahem.”
Bester cleared his throat, and Qwera went on in the silence.
“The Silver Swords are respected. Seeing the Merchant’s Guild come after them and siccing the Watch on them as well as the colonists? It looks bad. It calls our contracts into question and makes people second-guess working with us. How many questions have we gotten about those contracts from the Adventurer’s Guild, Bester?”
That was a shot in the dark, but he grimaced, and the other [Merchants] glanced at him. Freirgat was nodding as he rested his hands on the table.
“So you’d propose…”
“Drop the criminal charges. That’s all. The Silver Swords lost most of their gear. The Consortium’s either dead or expended most of their finances. Everyone lost here. What do we stand to gain from pursuing this?”
Lilstreica was nodding, arms folded. Rebrent licked his lips as Bester raised his brows, and Qwera thought she had them until the Slave Lady spoke.
“What we stand to gain is a Gold-rank team’s services. Which would benefit us greatly. It is true our members acted foolishly. Merchant Anlam is incompetent and has misrepresented his case in self-interest. I propose demoting him to Trader-class, absorbing his contract and that of the Consortium into the Merchant’s Guild employ, and pursuing seizure of the Silver Swords unless they can repay their incurred debts.”
Every head turned to her, and Freirgat frowned.
“You want to make them [Slaves]?”
“Indentured workers. As is chartered under Merchant Guild law. They are a capable group. It would behoove Izril’s Merchant’s Guild to develop longer-term assets, especially given the pressure on our members.”
Lady Andra shuffled her papers slowly on the desk, and Bester appeared uneasy.
“[Slaves] are not a common practice in Izril, even if they are allowed in cities like Zeres, Lady Andra—”
“They are not slaves, Merchant Bester. They are assets. And with respect, I do represent other [Merchants] who are keen to know their interests are not being ignored by Izril’s Merchant’s Guild. Baleros, Rhir, and Chandrarian [Merchants] have already begun to land on Izril’s shores.”
“And Terandrian, who do not hold with slavery. I find myself agreeing with Qwera. This is too much to put upon a respected Gold-rank team. The Merchant’s Guild of First Landing would tarnish its reputation with the Five Families!”
Freirgat faced the Slave Lady. Andra smirked at him, and Freirgat’s stern expression wavered. She chuckled, once, like someone rustling papers.
“Do forgive me, Merchant Freirgat. Terandrians do not hold with slavery indeed. A fine joke. Merchant Bester, I believe Chandrar’s Merchant Guild Headquarters would like to confer on this issue.”
“They would? I may need to take a call—”
“Hold on, she can’t use the Headquarters in Chandrar! We’re voting on this!”
Qwera snapped, and even Rebrent seemed astonished, but Slave Lady Andra just raised her brows.
“I am merely acting in the Merchant Guild’s interest, Merchant Qwera. I understand your passion and would like to discuss business if we can put this matter behind us. There is no personal emotion in this decision for me. What benefits the Guild is for the best.”
“What about our reputations? I don’t fancy being blacklisted by the Adventurer’s Guild!”
Lilstreica shot back. Andra raised her brows higher.
“Do we consider the Adventurer’s Guild to be equal in stature to our influence?”
“Wh—as peers, certainly!”
Andra just shook her head as Freirgat objected. She turned to Bester, and then it seemed like she was speaking just to him.
“The Merchant’s Guild stands to increase its influence over Izril’s operations significantly. With so many members in the field, I believe any diminishment of our authority is a dangerous precedent to set. I request a recess before we put this matter to the vote.”
“Bester, this is our discussion!”
Freirgat snapped as the Drake hesitated, and Bester put up his hands. Merchant Rebrent was glancing at Andra.
“I, ah, do back Lady Andra’s proposal, but I would like some kind of measure to be taken against danger to my friend, Anlam. And the Consortium is still out there. What about a rescue—”
“The Merchant’s Guild has no resources to waste, Merchant Rebrent. I think a recess is in order. I’ll have to confer with some senior management. Fifteen minutes, please.”
Lilstreica’s voice rose in outrage!
“Bester! Oteslia’s Merchant Guild is not on board with slavery!”
“It’s not slavery. This is purely a matter of commerce.”
Slave Lady Andra smiled as Bester snapped back, and Qwera saw her knowing, amused expression.
“Exactly. It’s just good procedure and contracts. As it was first written by the founder of the current Merchant’s Guild. I was such an admirer of her work.”
“Who would that be?”
Freirgat, Lilstreica, Qwera, and Rebrent all turned, and Andra frowned, as if they should know that.
“Why, Empress Nerrhavia herself, of course. The Immortal Tyrant laid the foundations of the modern monetary system and the Merchant’s Guild. One of her finest contributions to world governance.”
 
——
 
You know, the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters did tell its own story. Precious gems, magic, Golems, all these beautiful things taken from other peoples by the expenditure of gold. Other people worked hard to make food, art, and because you had a handful of gold, you tricked them into giving it to you.
“Merchants are bastards. Guess I forgot my own advice.”
Qwera stood in the sun as it glinted off her fur, staring up at the arches. Lilstreica was munching on a carrot as Freirgat wrote in a [Message] scroll.
“Who is that woman? Is she in First Landing’s meetings? Qwera, are you not shocked? She overruled us all!”
“I’m thinking, Freirgat.”
The verdict had come down, and Ysara had stormed off. But Qwera? She just stood there and watched as that Chandrarian [Merchant] began to leave the Headquarters. Perhaps he’d only been here to visit or get information, but someone intercepted him as he was going.
“Sir? [Scrying] spell for you. Lady Andra—”
Curious. What Qwera’s ears heard before the conversation was silenced did not match what her eyes expected to see. Because, when the [Merchant] turned and saw the scrying orb light up—
All the color drained out of his dusky cheeks. He appeared afraid.
“That fellow there. He’s not from Roshal, is he? Does anyone know?”
Lilstreica stopped crunching on a carrot and glanced up.
“That man? No, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I think his name is…nope, I don’t have it. Pretty intelligent fellow, though. Knew about Earthers. You two know that, right?”
“Everyone does. Do you think she does?”
Slave Lady Andra’s face was on a scrying orb coming their way. Qwera blinked as a [Servant] held the orb out.
“Merchant Qwera? Slave Lady Andra. A private call.”
“I’ll…take it. Hello?”
A [Hush] and other privacy spells fell around them as Slave Lady Andra spoke, and Qwera stood in a dark room.
“Merchant Qwera, your reputation for good business and penchant for dramatic discourse was not exaggerated in my files. I wished to speak with you. I trust you did not take the judgement of the Merchant’s Guild personally? It was merely business.”
“My partner is the sister of the adventurers we just hung out to dry, Slave Lady.”
“I see. So there is some stake in the matter. How much does she care about family?”
“Greatly, in this case.”
Andra’s head nodded slowly. Her eyes were distant, not disinterested, but as if the idea of ‘family’ were a remote concept she’d dallied with and had left behind. She twirled a quill in her fingers.
“I see, so there is some debt in our exchange. Nevertheless, I wished to introduce myself as a potential partner. There is quite a lot of interest in Izril at the moment, and a partnership might be profitable.”
Dead gods, Qwera thought she could have ice-for-veins at times. Here she was doing business with Tesy dead and Vetn…but Andra was all of Cenidau. Qwera smiled, baring her teeth in as genuine a grin as she had.
“You’re a dangerous woman, Lady Andra. I can see that. Let’s say I’m interested, if only to avoid crossing swords again.”
That got a smile out of the woman.
“A practical businesswoman, excellent. So many people are so—personal.”
Qwera nodded, then frowned.
“I’d love to chat. But didn’t I see you meeting with someone else? I’m not in your way, am I?”
Andra’s eyes flashed approvingly.
“Not at all. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference]. I could hardly keep abreast of my work without it.”
Dead gods she was a monster. Qwera smiled wider as she envisioned a dog rolling over and showing its belly. Because—she wasn’t sure how to counter this.
“Amazing. Well, let’s talk, Slave Lady. And it’s not personal at all, of course. The Silver Swords might be in debt now, but I imagine Ysara will pony up the money to pay the debt.”
Or Lyonette at the inn will as soon as she gets in contact with us. Qwera hadn’t heard from the inn, but she was surprised they weren’t on the warpath already, and they had sway with the Merchant’s Guild, even if they weren’t card-carrying members. Andra tilted her head slightly, and that smile never reached her eyes either.
“Ah, another personal debt I owe you then, Qwera. Rest assured, I am keeping track. Though it is your partner, and you seem far more able to separate relationships from business. The Silver Swords are responsible for the death of five [Merchants], or at least, their disappearance. This is no longer a case of owed incomes.”
All the fur on Qwera’s neck stood on end. Then she saw Andra’s eyes light up with the most pleased expression ever, like a cat watching a mouse in a trap.
“A bounty will be issued for their apprehension. We shall have them. Or the Merchant’s Guild must make an example.”
After a second, Qwera forced a laugh. And then she really wished she had someone to tell about this.
 
——
 
Slave Lady Andra was enjoying herself; an unexpected treat this morning given she had expected drudgery.
Then again, it was only two meetings out of sixty-three that were at all pleasant or amusing. She was used to this ratio; most of what she had to do was administrative, and while she enjoyed the accumulation of wealth and seeing the business of Roshal, which was her business, doing well, it could be tiresome.
She was Roshal. Oh, Andra acknowledged that the same statement and claim had been made by the other [Slave Lords], Shaullile, Yazdil, Thatalocian, even Pazeral, and that they represented different ethoses and times, but Andra still believed she was the true heart of Roshal.
For she was its coin. She was the ink that signed the parchments that bound those to chains, and she was the gold that flowed to pay for the nets, the caravans, the [Slave Takers], and grease the wheels of other kingdoms so that Roshal continued.
They had entrusted her with Roshal’s finances, the Masters of Roshal. Not all by choice, but she had used Yazdil’s position and her Skills to eliminate most issues, and she now ran Roshal’s heart from her new office. Which was her old office.
She had died here, once, with Crelers crawling up the city. Andra shuddered. The most unpleasant, frightening experience of her life. The attack spell that the Revenant, Fetohep, had launched on Roshal? The second-worst moment of her life.
However, she could now leave Roshal’s defense to Thatalocian and Pazeral, its relationships to Shaullile, and some of its governance in non-economic sectors to Yazdil. It was a partnership; Andra was the only [Slave Lord] who understood and truly appreciated the system they had here.
High-level individuals capable of effecting change in a low-leveled system. Delicious. She drank more wine since she had [Ever-Rational Mind]. Nothing would affect her decision-making process, save for herself. She could be completely inebriated or distracted and she would still make as cold a judgement as she saw fit.
She had done this a long time. She had been a half-Elf before death, Roshal her home of centuries. She was no Golem, of course; she required enjoyment and pursued her vices. She was, after all, Roshal.
Only, Andra was old. She’d been in her late three hundred and sixties when she’d died, which had been considerable time in the mortal world for a half-Elf. Andra had long since experienced every vice, every act and depravity Roshal had to offer. Hence why she took such pleasure in true power over people by way of economic might.
She’d stocked this tower up on [Slaves], chosen ones who were capable or physically appealing, and indulged in having a body again for two weeks before getting back to work. Now she was bored of them, and as such, pursued the vice that all [Slave Lords] had in common: finding their favorite [Slaves].
Each one had a type. Pazeral seemed to favor extreme beauty, exoticism, or just prestige. Classic. Shaullile? Too private, but Andra was compiling lists of [Slaves] that Shaullile had bought. High charisma, it seemed. Thatalocian? A mystery, truly, but Yazdil was easy: competence and levels.
Collecting the best specimens, training them, and enjoying them was a [Slave Lady]’s passion. In Andra’s case, her work tended to dovetail with her collection. Andra’s quill scribbled like lightning in front of her, jotting down notes from the seven different meetings she was having all at once.
Meeting #18 out of 63, 8:35 AM. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference], scrying into Chandrar, city of Scitv. Empire of Scaied. Merchant Alabreta begins weeping uncontrollably. Saved recording for later.
“You’ve ruined me.”
The Stitch-woman was sobbing as Andra smiled into the scrying orb. The adjudicator for the Empire of Scaied, a nobleman, was silent, uncomfortable. Lady Andra smiled.
“We engaged in business rivalry. You chose the wrong opponent. I gave you numerous chances to join my interests.”
“You monster. How did you—she’s the reason everyone turned against me! She’s sabotaged my business, Lord…!”
The woman was appealing to the judge, but Andra had bought him out, so the nobleman cleared his throat and smacked a stone gavel.
“Enough of this. I find these allegations hysterical and meritless! Merchant Alabreta, you have not proven your case. The Empire of Scaied finds you are gravely in debt. Your company shall be dissolved and given over to the crown.”
He shot a glance at Andra, and she checked down the neat list of boxes. Over the last month, she’d been taking apart Alabreta’s holdings, using [Assassins] and other tools to remove her profitability, steal her clients.
It was just a hobby. True, the woman was anti-[Slaver], but this was more fun than anything else. Andra smiled.
“I believe the penalty for excessive debts in Scaied is death. Or conscription into the mercenary armies.”
The nobleman nodded. The Stitch-woman inhaled, and Andra savored the fear in her eyes.
“May I make a bid before her sentencing, Lord Judge? I would like to pay off Merchant Alabreta’s considerable debts. You may transfer her into Roshal’s custody. I’ll buy her.”
“You—you—”
The Stitch-woman’s face drained of color, and she saw Andra’s eyes flick to her, a smile crossing the [Businesswoman]’s lips.
Yes, that was the kind of [Slave] Andra liked. Defeated rivals. The powerful laid low. She’d have fun when Alabreta arrived. The nobleman shivered slightly, but he nodded.
“Of course.”
“You can’t do this! You can’t—”
Alabreta began to wail and scream and even, amusingly, to flee. Andra smiled wider. She’d had this all recorded; she’d play it back later when Alabreta arrived. Entertainment for off-work hours. She’d lost her entire collection of slaves and recordings with her death. But, well…
Life could not all be fun. The work was more tedious, which was why it was so refreshing to have…she checked her notes.
Meeting #23 out of 63, 8:34 AM. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference], scrying into Izril, City of Zeres. Merchant’s Guild HQ. Person of note: Merchant Qwera, ‘Golden Gnoll’. Impressions favorable. Very attractive personality. Could lose weight.
“Do you have time to discuss more matters, Merchant Qwera? As I said, I have a personal interest in you.”
The Golden Gnoll’s fur rippled as she nodded, smiling cautiously. Guard all the way up. But she shone in Andra’s eyes.
Splendid investing portfolio. She knows exactly when to cut bad investments, and she’d started from nothing. Andra could read someone’s entire portfolio of wealth like a web of bright metal strands behind them. Qwera was beautiful in more ways than just her fur. Andra admired anyone with good business sense.
“I could speak, Slave Lady.”
“Wonderful.”
Another sip of the chilled wine. Andra savored it on her tongue. Such sensations…she was half-minded to call for a [Slave], but it was rude to enjoy oneself in company. In Izril. And even Chandrar. She’d need to change the culture back.
She wondered if she could get Qwera to pursue Shaullile’s pro-slavery initiatives. But sending non-Chandrarians a gift-[Slave] never worked out well in Andra’s experience, though she couldn’t fathom why. She had never had many friends in Roshal before her death or even after. It was why she craved those who could see the beauty of numbers themselves.
“Well then, as I have observed, and you no doubt, Izril is the prime continent for investment at this moment. Chandrar? Distressingly war-ravaged with little revitalization.”
“The King of Destruction does tend to ruin more than he builds. Though his kingdom comes out ahead. Such are [Kings of War].”
Andra beamed. Qwera got it!
“Exactly! I do have some investments in Reim and his holdings. Assuming he is triumphant, I expect exponential profits, but it is still slower than I would like. Izril? The New Lands?”
“I can see why you’re weighing in on the Merchant’s Guild. I’d hate to cross swords with you.”
Andra chuckled.
“I have little experience with actual swordplay, but I do enjoy battles of coin. As I said, however, I have no time to travel, and meeting contacts I can ally with is a priority. You are on a shortlist.”
Qwera stared at the sky for a second.
“…Would that shortlist mean you’re inclined to reverse course on the Silver Swords? Because I am listening.”
Another chuckle, and Andra waved a finger. She was enjoying this. The Gnoll woman was old enough, but compared to Andra, she was far too young and too low-level. Andra might have twenty levels on her, well, before her death. So distressing to lose her levels, but she’d already regained two.
“Merchant Qwera, you have not demonstrated any actionable reason I should believe your willingness to work with me nor any profitability in such an arrangement. When such moments do appear, I shall note them down and reconsider. Your Gold-rank team is not in great danger.”
“They have [Bounty Hunters] after them.”
“True, but adventurers tend to survive. If they enter the Merchant’s Guild’s possession, I will take charge of them. Then we can discuss an equitable trade.”
Oh, the Gnoll didn’t like that. She realized she’d revealed a weak point for Andra to use and bared her teeth. Delightful. She’d be so fetching if she lost, what, forty pounds? And took a Potion of Youth’s Return. Did they still make those? Andra would have to have them rediscovered if not.
Then again, she couldn’t tell if she wanted Qwera as a [Slave] or…an ally. Both were appealing. And because people often turned on her for reasons she never understood, only accounted for, Andra enjoyed both perspectives. She leaned forwards in her chair.
“I am quite interested in the developments over the next few months. The New Lands are a bounty of wealth if one approaches the puzzle correctly. Too many initiatives are foolhardy, such as the Consortium of Enterprise. I trust you will show me far more success.”
She knew the wealth in the New Lands, or she had enough clues to speculate what might be there. Qwera folded her arms.
“I don’t have the resources to go in nearly as thoroughly as Roshal. If you’d care to pave the way…”
“In time. I am currently consolidating our position in Chandrar. It is a rather tedious affair; we were cloistered until I took power.”
So insular. Andra rolled her eyes; her entry into the Merchant’s Guild was one of the things she’d needed to correct. If only she had a good helper—like Qwera, say. Did they have any [Corruptors] left? She’d check the Wishing Well later.
The Golden Gnoll was squinting at Andra.
“Who has any economic power in Chandrar besides Roshal…?”
“A few individuals. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has squandered its position, but Khelt is distressingly present. However, the main competitor in our region is the Empire of Sands.”
A thorn in her side. She didn’t like their growing authority or savvyness, but Yazdil assured her they were better as neutral, friendly parties. Andra didn’t conduct wars, so she sighed…then smiled.
“Their economic position is fairly dominant, but has been slipping of late. They made a terrible fumble of coin recently. I don’t know if you’ve heard…?”
“Recently? No, not at all.”
Qwera’s eyes lit up with curiosity, and Andra chuckled with good humor.
“Inquire about certain recent shipments of cargo if you would like to spot a great opportunity, Merchant Qwera. I, myself, prefer not to gamble on such ventures, but it was highly helpful in uprooting their dominance…until the business with these alternate currencies.”
She scowled again. She was familiar with such things, but it had been annoying—and unprecedented. She’d put it down to some kind of external factor, but she couldn’t understand what magnitude of Skill or effort it had been. Thatalocian had claimed it was due to Erin Solstice, but he said that about most things, and she had noted he had not stated that to the other [Slave Lords], just her.
Politics internally. She hoped she didn’t have to war with the others; they were more useful as allies. Qwera nodded a few times, taking in Andra’s hints.
“Intriguing. But my contacts say that the Empire of Sands is hardly down. They’ve been spending coin like water, as has Germina. Calanfer too.”
Oh, she was capable. Andra drank more wine, grimacing.
“That…is the oddity. Someone has injected a strong amount of monetary power into multiple nations. I traced the funds to Izril, but the Merchant’s Guild is not as thorough as I would like.”
And someone was very good at hiding their trail. She wanted to know whom, to avoid more meddling in her plans, and of course to either recruit or enslave such a party to her side.
Qwera exhaled.
“…And I’m, what, the young ingenue to throw myself at the feet of a master? I’m rather annoyed by this Silver Swords business, Lady Andra. You may not realize it, but you’ve made an enemy of House Byres. Lord Yitton Byres cares about his son.”
Andra’s head tilted to one side as she heard a blip from her speaking stone.
“Lady Andra, [Forewarned Danger] has been triggered. We are doubling your security.”
“Triple and deal with it.”
How annoying, [Assassins] or whatnot. Andra triggered five Djinni she’d bought for her security, then went back to talking.
“Lord Yitton Byres? Ah, the silver and anti-Vampire efforts. Interesting. I shall take note of it, but I don’t consider this a dealbreaker.”
Qwera’s eyes flickered at the ‘Vampire’ mention. Did she know? Andra liked her even more. Yes, she was definitely going to offer the Gnoll some lucrative contracts and see what she did with them. Qwera raised her brows.
“Lord Yitton is a man of honor.”
Andra chuckled until she realized this wasn’t a joke. She smiled at Qwera.
“Merchant Qwera, I am aware you are not a fan of Roshal.”
“Me? I’m just wary.”
The Gnoll tried to pretend to innocence, but Andra’s eyes were superior:
[Visualize Statistic: Favorability]. Qwera’s stat was at a -67 towards Andra, which amused her so greatly because Qwera was trying so hard. The [Slave Lady] smiled wider.
“Your intelligence overrides your dislike of me. That I respect. And because I do, I will make you some offers, and in time, you may provide what I desire most of all.”
“…I’m assuming you mean [Slaves].”
Qwera replied, an edge to her voice, and Andra waved this off.
“Not just any [Slaves]. Ones who have a significant effect on my business. Doombearers. I was worried when I heard they were all but extinct. However, more may be manufactured, and I am in the market—once Izril opens up.”
The Gnoll woman’s eyes widened and then narrowed.
“Because of their luck.”
Nothing better for a business. Andra sipped as her favorability score lost more points. She didn’t need to hide what she was doing; Shaullile would, but this was business, and at least here, nothing came of hiding your position.
“Your price for contributing to Roshal, and Lord Yitton Byres’ price for overlooking his ‘honor’ or familial ties to his son—or that Merchant Ysara—may be values too high for me to be inclined to pay. For the moment, Merchant Qwera.”
“But that implies you think at some point you can pay it?”
Qwera’s voice was oh so soft, and Andra snorted.
“Everything is business. I am not blind to this Yitton Byres’ reputation. Morality, honesty, integrity, these are assets which tend towards appreciation in value. But if they are never liquidated, what are they worth?”
It always annoyed her when she saw that. Some old, doddering fool clinging to something like that as if it meant anything while his house died in poverty. Qwera exhaled.
“I do see your point, Lady Andra.”
“I know you do. That’s why I like you. You’re still a bit naïve, but if I were to offer you, oh, a contract for…”
Andra was baiting a hook to throw at Qwera. Something nice and juicy that the Gnoll could use to prove how good she was. Something she couldn’t justify resisting. The [Slave Lady] was having so much fun that she was thoroughly annoyed when her speaking stone chirped again.
“Lady Andra, there is a situation. Hostile Skill incoming—”
“Deal with it! My office is warded.”
She broke off her meetings and glared at the stone. Her three active meetings all saw it happen; since it wasn’t a scheduled meeting, Andra had to reply in realtime. Qwera blinked.
“Am I interrupting you? We could take this call later, Slave Lady.”
“Not at all. Just one moment…”
What the hell was going on? Andra’s speaking stone lit up, and she heard a voice. Not her security; only four people could call her without going through her system.
“This is Thatalocian. We are under attack.”
Then a panicked voice.
“Get me out of here! What are they? What—”
Shaullile? Andra half-rose, then sat back down. She checked her security; she had vision spells of her entire tower from her office. She felt something crawling down her back. And then…
Was that the ringing of bells? Andra glanced around as Qwera blinked at her. Then she caught her breath.
Combat in the upper hallways. Something had infiltrated her tower. But how? She triggered the sound and heard screaming.
“Antinium! Ant—”
Slave Lady Andra froze as she saw a new species charging down the corridor. But they were all wrong to the images she’d reviewed. They appeared…summoned? Were they speaking? Screaming? And those eyes—
Her gaze flicked up to her doors. Andra checked the security footage outside her rooms and saw five Djinni hovering in the air. She relaxed, turning to Qwera with a smile.
“Some minor disturbance in Roshal. [Assassins]. It happens. Now, as I was—”
Thwoom. She flinched, and her papers moved on her desk. Andra saw her cup jump. What—what was—
She reached for her cup, trying to steady herself, smiling at the Gnoll whose eyes had opened wider. Andra drank from her cup.
“Perhaps I should—”
Then something exploded outside her office. The doors’ magical bindings cracked inwards, and Andra flinched. Nothing more; she didn’t have great reflexes or the instincts of a warrior. She just froze, wine cup in hand, and saw reeling Djinni, one locked in a wrestling match with a glowing Antinium Soldier. And a single Antinium Worker running forwards.
“bE vERy afRaID.”
“Wh—what is—”
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll of Pallass, saw Andra push herself back from her table, fumbling with her desk, her rings.
“Security. Securit—”
“Andra?”
Then the glowing Worker leapt at the [Slave Lady], and she flinched again. The security teams burst into the room and fired crossbows and spells. A Djinni whirled, hurled a spear.
The Worker hit the ground in front of Andra, pinned by the spear. Her heart was in her chest. Andra stared at the damage to her floor and mentally began to add up the costs. Shakily, she sat back in her chair.
“Status report. Trace that Skill and—”
All was well. She was telling herself that as the Worker, still impaled on the spear and thrashing, raised one glowing hand towards her. It had…eight mouths? The mandibles moved up in a smile. And the Antinium began to glow brighter. Andra’s eyes widened.
“N—”
Everything exploded. Qwera saw the room vanish, the scrying orb go dark before her eyes.
Then, Slave Lady Andra was falling out of her tower, screaming. Screaming—
And it was a long way down.
 
——
 
Ylawes felt like things were looking up at last.
Goisedall had been hard, but you know what? You had to treat it like an adventure. There were some difficult parts, like starving and the Merchant’s Guild, but he’d come out of it with treasure.
Namely, Pekona’s affection and having met the Plain’s Eye tribe and the Thousand Lances. Who were his heroes.
He was so shy, actually, he was making out with Pekona until the [Blade Dancer] realized he kept sneaking glances at the [Knights] and glared up at him.
“Captain…I do not have the words to say this, but are you kissing me to hide from them?”
“What? No! Maybe. I get a lot out of it with no ulterior motives, even if I had any.”
Instantly, she stepped back, breathing heavily, and brushed at her hair.
“My lips are not for distractions. They are all serious business. Who are they?”
Ylawes cleared his throat, very embarrassed. He saw Dawil sidle over; the Plain’s Eye tribe was still coming, and only Chieftain Merish and a few of his people had halted to speak with other groups. Everyone else kept moving on.
“Hoi, Humans. Get out of the way, yes?”
Everyone jumped as a little Gnoll riding a small cow with orange fur and long horns shouted at them. A stream of odd, compact cattle with less rotund bodies plodded past them, neatly making it impossible to get past unless you fancied trying to shove past a bunch of cows.
Someone tried it. Insill was so curious about the [Knights] he darted forwards.
“Excuse me. Ex—argh my tail!”
An animal got his tail, and when he twisted, another of the Plainsfollower Cattle knocked him down. Then he was in real danger of being trampled, slowly, before the young Gnoll boy whistled.
“[Safety Roll]! Get out, ya idiot! Darn Drakes…don’t cross a cattle stream! It’ll be four minutes, hear?”
Insill rolled back towards the group, holding his tail, wide-eyed and panting. Dawil twisted around.
“Alright, lad—not you, Ylawes, Insill—don’t do anything stupid like that again. They might be slow and cute, but each one’s got to be hundreds of pounds. One hits you, you fall over, even if you’re a [Warrior]. That’s just basic weight and force.”
“Ow, I think I broke my tail. I’m a [Rogue]! And that kid can—wait, how’s he doing that?”
The young Gnoll with bright red fur had caught sight of the [Knights], and his jaw had dropped. He clearly wanted to stare at them, but since he had to be part of the cattle train, which he seemed to be in charge of, he jumped up until he was on the first of the Plainsfollower cows’ backs, then began to run across the others!
He ran like he was on a bumpy road! The cows barely noticed him as he nimbly ran ‘backwards’, which gave him plenty of time to gawk at the [Knights].
“Dead gods, that’s a [Drover] if ever I saw one. He must have grown up farming animals.”
It was Ylawes out of everyone who identified the boy’s class. Dawil raised his brows, purely amazed.
“We saw some herds this large up north, lad. The southeast of Izril has those lovely plains, but I’ve never seen anyone run on cattle like that.”
“I haven’t either, but I heard stories as a kid. You’d run into some [Farmhands] who pushed cows over for fun, or ran herds backwards. It was pretty dangerous, apparently. They knew someone who’d fallen and died when the cows stampeded over him.”
“What a way to go.”
Anith muttered, but the young Gnoll boy just kept running, and Ylawes took his eyes off him and turned to the [Knights]. Plain’s Eye was a massive wonder of people, but the four [Knights]…
“Dead gods, it is the Thousand Lances of Kaaz. I mean, they introduced themselves. I shook the hand of Rosenthine! Me!”
He wondered if she did autographs. No, that was crass; he knew that was embarrassing, but maybe if she autographed his armor? Pekona was still scratching her head.
“People shove cows over? Why? It is some Izrilian thing?”
“It’s fun, Pekona. Also speaks to how strong they must be. Imagine tipping over one of that lot, and they’re not even as big as regular cows. Lad, what do you think the Thousand Lances are doing here? I reckon once we get a moment, we ask covertly. I wanted a word with you before I talked.”
Dawil moved closer, and Ylawes realized the Dwarf was less awed and more…
“Oh, come on, Dawil. They just saved us from Goisedall! Do we have to use our brains now?”
Everyone turned to Ylawes and Dawil, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth, who’d been hiding from the angry Ser Brindelhor, turned to Ylawes with rapt interest.
Dawil sighed.
“Lad, they’re here for a reason. It’s worth coin!”
“Just for one second, I’d like to not to have to—”
“Captain, you not want to use brain?”
Rasktooth interrupted with an expression of hilarity on his face, and Ylawes blinked at him.
“What? Oh, that’s our private lingo, Rasktooth. It’s whenever Dawil or Falene, or I think that a situation’s more complex than, well, face-value. You know?”
Sometimes, you took a quest for an old [Lady] with monsters in her backyard and it’s simple. Sometimes, you wonder ‘why does she have a Mothbear in her basement? Why’s there chains on the Mothbear’s legs? What kind of old lady stays around with a dangerous Mothbear and doesn’t run for the hills?’
“Engage your brains. That’s, uh—a fascinating way of putting it, Ylawes.”
The [Knight] only then realized how it sounded and tried to clarify, but too late. Rasktooth promptly saluted his forehead.
“Adventurer Infinitypear! Permission to engage brain, sir!”
“Permission denied, Rasktooth! No engaging of brains is needed today!”
Ylawes colored as Dawil laughed.
“Dead gods, we should have had rookies years ago. Pointy and Ylawes never even twitched an eye at the term! Lad, I’m telling you, they’re going to be a thing.”
“Great. So I have to do, what, pump them for information?”
“Maybe just ask what their goals are, if they came with support, before getting one of them to make you his [Squire].”
Dawil suggested gently, and Pekona covered her mouth as Ylawes flushed. Then the [Blade Dancer] hesitated and raised a hand.
“Who are the Thousand Lances?”
Dawil and Ylawes turned to her, incredulous, but Insill, Larr, both were nodding. Infinitypear and Rasktooth made sense, but—! Anith shrugged.
“I know of them. But only distantly, Captain, Dawil. I’d be grateful for a refresher as well. They’re the most powerful [Knight] Order in the world, right?”
“What? How does anyone decide that?”
Insill’s jaw dropped, but Ylawes just nodded at the field where the [Knights] had punched through the Drakes without effort. Some of the Drakes were still passed out.
“It’s just common knowledge, Insill. The Thousand Lances of Kaaz, the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon, are only one thousand in number, hence the name. They’re drawn from every Knight-Order in the world. Being invited into their ranks is a huge honor. It’s a safe bet to assume any member of the Thousand Lances is…Named-rank in capability.”
“No way. That’s impossible.”
Larr laughed hugely, and Dawil fixed him with a calm eye.
“It’s true enough, lad. I know it sounds like Djinni smoke and tall tales, but I’m from Terandria, remember. Kaaz funds the Thousand Lances, and Kaaz is rich from their dungeon. Each [Knight] might not be Level 40, but their gear is beyond excellent. Not one of those [Knights] is wearing plain steel, for instance. It’s all enchanted and survived the New Lands. That’s Named-ranker gear. I remember meeting some fellow from the Order of Haegris, the Haggle Knights. He was armored in pure Mithril, and that was considered mandatory for membership, given his levels and Skills could not guarantee it. Not that we all carry Mithril, but enchantments of superior quality, at least.”
Larr stopped laughing and swallowed as Pekona murmured.
“If they are so famous, why don’t they go everywhere?”
“Well, they mainly keep peace in Terandria. They quest there, slay monsters—some go abroad and do great acts, like this lot. But mostly…since no one battles Kaaz, the Thousand Lances haven’t been called on for war in my lifetime. There was some question if they’d fight the King of Destruction back when he was rampaging. The entire Order; I know individual members had fought against him. I had little dolls of some of them as a boy.”
Ylawes truly didn’t know what to say to them, but Dawil just sighed.
“They’re not all perfect. When one of them decides to make a point, it’s made hard. Those four have as much presence as an army, and as you can see, they can fight one off just by themselves. They’ll be big players in the New Lands, so we’d better be on our best behavior.”
“They already hate Rasktooth.”
Larr pointed out cynically. Ylawes’ stomach clenched as Rasktooth nodded.
“That true, but most people hate me then find me lovable. Because I so cute. Like you, Larr.”
“I don’t like you.”
“You do! You say, ‘I really grateful for you, Rasktooth’.”
“I was starving. And I did not!”
“You is my best friend. After Infinitypear and Ylawes and Dawil and Falene and Pekona.”
“After Falene? What’d she ever do for you?”
“She save my life from those undead face-guys.”
“Oh…right…but I shot a rabbit for you one time!”
“Yah, that right. That why you above Insill and Anith and Dasha.”
“What? We’re last?”
As the Silver Swords argued, the cattle herd cleared, and Ylawes got a chance to approach his heroes again. He worried they wouldn’t want to talk to him, as they were still speaking with Merish, but he needn’t have worried.
Ser Pavoriad, the tall half-Elf, was still swinging Falene around.
“Ser Pavoriad, please! I’ll vomit!”
She was begging him, and he put her down, then ruffled her hair.
“Oh, forgive me, little sister. When you told me how young you were, I forgot you were a [Mage] of Wistram! Very decorous and honorable. And so soon! You must be a prodigy!”
He laughed as Ylawes slowed, and he and Dawil bit their lips. Falene was flushed.
“Ser Pavoriad, I’m eighty-three! That’s forty-one years in Human terms!”
The [Knight] appeared astonished.
“Is it? Dead gods, I thought it was one Human year for every four of ours!”
“They changed the standards two decades ago. It’s one for every three, but for someone who lives outside of home, as I do, it’s one for two.”
“I must not have heard of it. Even so, you’re far too young to not be running barefoot and dancing with your hair down, little sister! We might not be in the villages, but I’m barely past my prime at a hundred and fifty! Don’t make me seem so old!”
He struck his chest lightly, with a laugh. He was huge, and Ylawes had to admire his armor now—it was some kind of wood, maybe? Or metal that resembled wood, polished and green, and Ser Pavoriad had a sigil of trees on his chestplate.
When he saw Ylawes, he turned and stuck out a hand.
“Ah, Knight Ylawes, my sister-kin here was telling me all about your team. I am, once again, Ser Pavoriad, and delighted am I to meet another half-Elf! I thank you for taking care of Falene here. Such a brilliant girl.”
Falene, who’d done much the same to Ceria, albeit in a mildly condescending way, was bright red from the genuine goodwill practically beaming off Pavoriad’s face. Then he had a thought and touched the arm of his gauntlet.
“This sight! A half-Elf, a Dwarf, and a Human—a classic Terandrian team. Give me one moment; I must draw a picture. For my journal, you see.”
His right armguard had a section of metal that flipped up and produced a painter’s palette as little metal wings unfolded and ejected the slat of wood. And a little stand…and canvas…
Everyone stared at Pavoriad as he plucked a brush from his in-built art tray and wet it before slashing across the canvas. Falene was bright red and spluttering.
“Ser Pavoriad, I am a full grown woman! Though I thank you for the greeting. Ylawes, Dawil, Ser Pavoriad hails from Gaiil-Drome, my home. He’s one of four of our [Knights] of the Thousand Lances.”
Four? Was that high or low? Ylawes bowed to Ser Pavoriad, who smiled again.
“I only regret that I have not done more for my homeland, especially in the Dawn Concordat war. I stood silently as our brave folk fought with Calanfer—! But it was politics, you see? If I took to the field, my counterparts from Ailendamus and perhaps Taimaguros would have as well. Then it would have been the six of us versus near thirty.”
“Taimaguros and Ailendamus count for thirty members in the Thousand Lances?”
Falene was dismayed, and Ser Pavoriad sighed.
“Oh, aye, Sister, they do. Most of Taimaguros, if I’m honest. Ailendamus seems to think their Great Knights are equal to us—if not better—and do not seem inclined to call for many candidates. It is customary, you see, Ser Ylawes. If a kingdom has members in the Thousand Lances, then they do not fear other [Knights] of the Thousand Lances going to war against them. For we would not wish to make war against each other.”
“I see. And your aid is very well taken, Ser Pavoriad. I wish to thank you for—”
“Ah.”
The half-Elf thrust up a hand, and Ylawes hesitated. Ser Pavoriad had pale blond hair and a long face, which might have been called horse-like but for his great smile and the merriment of his features. He seemed oddly dignified, even when sketching out his painting, and he lowered his brush, removed the image from his canvas, and eyed it critically.
“I cannot accept your thanks, Ser Ylawes. To do so implies we did some service for you that was not exactly what was deserved and what we are bound to do. Nor did we exactly tax ourselves in the doing thereof. When good men—and women—meet, there is no other recourse than righteous action. So, I am glad we meet as equals.”
He handed the paper to Ylawes with a grimace.
“Not my finest work. I try, but the nuance is lost as I am only an amateur [Painter].”
Ylawes stared down at the [Knight] with golden flax for hair, who stood next to a beaming Dwarf that had on armor gleaming under the sun, next to a rather young-looking Falene, as a herd of cows passed by in the background.
Ylawes turned, and a cow eyed him. Both agreed it was damn fine art. However, Ser Pavoriad just accepted the picture back and tucked it into a journal.
“I shall master the sword sooner than the brush. Though I am but a neophyte in both. Falene tells me you are a Gold-rank team? The Silver Swords? Very well met indeed. You are the first adventurers we encountered who were not dead—not that we have seen many given our route.”
“Dead?”
Ylawes and Dawil echoed, and Ser Pavoriad’s brows drew together.
“Aye, dead. One of some monster attack, torn to bits, and another group cut down by a bladesman if I’m any judge. One blow to the back of the neck, each time, from a thin, thin blade…but we landed in the northern section of the New Lands, then came southwards, so we have not exactly explored the New Lands proper.”
“An odd route to take, Ser Pavoriad. Dawil. Dwarfhome.”
Dawil shook the half-Elf’s hand, and Pavoriad chuckled.
“Both the sea and curiosity had us hugging the coast, sir. We wanted to see the Hivelands, in truth. But we didn’t step ashore, despite some debate.”
Ylawes had heard few ships went close to the Antinium’s lands, but the Thousand Lances were clearly without fear. This was confirmed when the second [Knight] stomped over.
“We should have landed to challenge them and see if the rumors were true. Though they’re said to be a ‘people’. As much as Goblins? I call both into question, Knight Byres. And I challenge your assertions.”
Ser Brindelhor was shorter, wearing red armor and a velvet cloak that was clearly enchanted, which hung in the air as if too light, despite the thick purple cloth. When his visor was up, it revealed freckles, a shock of brown hair, and a glare at Ylawes.
Ser Pavoriad sighed.
“Ser Brindelhor, our leader, Rosenthine, has accepted Ser Byres’ word, and you would not care to challenge that again so soon, surely?”
“I may, for I consider it a point of honor, and if my valor be true, I shall prevail.”
The man grated, then stuck a hand out at Ylawes.
“Ser Brindelhor once more. The Irriven Redbloods. No one kingdom, though I have pledged my sword in service of Oztera. And you are Lord Ylawes of House Byres. Izrilian nobility and a Gold-rank adventurer.”
His glower, a burly brown gaze to match his hair, intensified. Right up until Ylawes took his hand, beaming, and pumped it up and down.
“Ser Brindelhor, it’s an honor. The Irriven Redbloods? I learned of your order just recently! You’re the famous [Knight]-Order of commonfolk! I should have recognized you from the greatsword! Is that a classic Irriven Commonblade? I was rather inspired when I researched your order and the stories of your exploits! If I’d ever been able to journey to Terandria as a boy, I would have loved to join the Order of the Forest’s Heart or Redbloods if I’d known about them —though I couldn’t join the Redbloods, obviously.”
—And there it was. Dawil covered a smile as he watched Brindelhor’s face go slack for a moment. Ylawes really hadn’t known about the Irriven Redbloods, but he was still a [Knight]. He rather enjoyed learning about other [Knights] and their Orders and he was genuine, all the way down.
“What? Er—yes, yes, a classic Commonblade in style, though it’s enchanted—you know my Order?”
Ser Brindelhor had come prepared to dislike Ylawes intensely, doubtless due to the fact that he was a commoner and [Knights] were largely noble or at least rich. However, he had made a mistake: Ylawes was an Izrilian [Knight], so he excitedly beckoned Pekona over.
“May I introduce you to Dawil, Falene, Pekona—all my teammates, sir? Pekona, this is Ser Brindelhor of the Irriven Redbloods, the only [Knight] Order who only accepts commoners. They’re quasi-mercenaries, but they fight with great distinction on the field and are famous for using greatswords.”
“Hello.”
Pekona was shy, but Brindelhor’s face was colorful as Ser Pavoriad covered a smile. Abashed, the other [Knight] stepped back and crossed his arms.
“The Redbloods are that famous to Izrilians? You hail from no [Knight] Order yourself, Knight Ylawes?”
“No, we have only a few like the Clairei Fields, but I couldn’t identify with most. The Redbloods? Of course they’re so well known! The code about commoners is far more interesting than another [Knight] Order. With great respect to all, of course!”
Ylawes flushed, realizing he might have put his foot in his mouth, but Ser Brindelhor’s mouth opened and closed, then he cleared his throat.
“Well, we’re not the only Knight-Order of commonfolk. The Order of the Hydra is quite commendable, but they do accept nobles as well as—House Byres. A fine house of Izril, I do believe.”
“Silver and steel. They were known to crusade in the past and I believe had ties to the famous Silver Knight-Dragon, Yderigrisel? Though Knight Ylawes does himself a disservice; he does have ties to a Knight Order you would know, Brindelhor.”
Pavoriad’s eyes were twinkling as Brindelhor turned to him for help. Ylawes blinked.
“I do? Oh—”
“The Order of Solstice. Though I gather, then, you may not be as active a member.”
Brindelhor’s eyes lit up.
“The Order of—! I remember that! I had a bet about whether or not it was real. That man set aflame by that rabble. Another group we should have pursued if only we had the time!”
He clenched a fist, then nodded at Ylawes.
“Well…I can see you know something of Terandrian [Knights]. But I ask again, Ser! Goblins and Antinium? How did this come to be? Does it not go against the very vows we have taken to let either roam around?”
He pointed at Rasktooth and Infinitypear, who froze with a bucket in their hands. Brindelhor turned to Pavoriad, who was frowning, but lightly.
“Look! Wait, what are they doing?”
“Um, I think trying to steal milk from a cow? Lads…what are you up to?”
Poke Duo was sneaking after a cow, trying to milk the udders as it plodded along. Since the cow was moving and not inclined to be stopped, they were having to grab the teats and were causing a mess.
“Poke Duo, stop trying to steal milk!”
Ylawes was embarrassed, but Rasktooth hollered back.
“We not stealing nothing! We just, uh, taste-testing! In case it poison! Yah, yah!”
He leaned over and hissed.
“Brother! Hurry up, they onto us!”
“I’m trying! This cow is not very milkable! Moo! Slow down! Rasktooth, how do you tell a cow to slow down?”
“I not know how to speak cow. I wish Captain Ceria were here. She say she know how to speak to all animals. Moo! Eh, moo, slow down!”
The two’s antics had several watching Gnolls in stitches, Goblin and Antinium or not. Ser Brindelhor’s pointing finger followed the two shuffling after the cow until the [Knight] lowered it. Then he turned. Ser Pavoriad was wearing a huge smile.
“…I grant you, they seem less threatening than I had been led to believe. However, I am not blind to the threat of Goblin Kings nor the Black Tide! I have read countless books upon the matter coming here.”
“Books, er, Ser Brindelhor? Which ones?”
Falene blinked, and the [Knight] bristled at her.
“The Antinium Wars by Krsysl Wordsmith, Reflections Upon Goblin Kings by Lord Mercun, Entreaties for A Safer World by [Writer] Vondraeimus—as every [Knight] should educate his mind!”
“I’m sure my little sister was not implying you were illiterate in any way, Ser Brindelhor. Nor do I think most Izrilians share the bias.”
Pavoriad put in, and Brindelhor stopped bristling again. He swung back to Poke Duo, blushing faintly.
“Be that as it may…strange. I might not have even taken that Goblin as a Goblin. More like a malnourished half-Elf child. His skin’s more grey than green.”
Both half-Elves glared at him, and Ylawes blinked.
“You’ve never seen a Goblin before, Ser Brindelhor? Or never a Cave Goblin? Rasktooth is a variant of the species.”
The [Knight] scratched at his stubble of a beard.
“I never have. Goblins are not that common to Terandria. They’re hunted down quickly, and I know some [Knights] who have exterminated them in more remote regions, but…Ser Pavoriad?”
“I’ve run into a few tribes over my time, Brindelhor, but they’re not nearly as common as on other continents. Half-Elves are sometimes remote enough to fear them, but we have our own guardians who patrol the old villages. Why not let the matter be until Ser Ylawes has a chance to explain himself? We do speak overlong when we should be engaging in civil discourse!”
At this, both [Knights] bowed again, and Ylawes was grateful as Ser Brindelhor relaxed—though he kept his eyes on Poke Duo most of the time. The two adventurers kept trying to get milk in the bucket until the young Gnoll came riding back with a little pail of milk the two began to slurp greedily from.
“Those little children. Well, we’re further in Plain’s Eyes debt. We should make them a gift too, Ylawes, and perhaps see if we can go with them. At least until we’re away from Goisedall and can sort this mess out.”
Falene grumbled. Reminded of the bind they were in, Ylawes sighed, and Ser Pavoriad hugged Falene.
“Little sister, you’re barely older than they are! I should be delighted by your company! Let us rejoin the good Chieftain and see if we all might prevail on his company.”
“I’m eighty—”
Perhaps only Ylawes and Dawil noticed the twinkle in Pavoriad’s eyes as he grinned and hugged Falene.
 
——
 
Chieftain Merish was glad to meet the Silver Swords and the Thousand Lances at Goisedall. Not just because it was a welcome break from the long march west, but because they distracted his people.
That was worth more than the trouble of clashing with Goisedall, even indirectly. It had been a long, long winter and spring.
How did a tribe rebuild after revealing that they were not only traitors to their own kind, but had been perpetuating a terrible lie built on the blood of innocents? That was Plain’s Eyes’ struggle, and their tribe had fallen furthest from grace since the Meeting of Tribes.
The answer was: they didn’t. Even if Merish was ten times wiser, twenty levels higher, he didn’t think he could have saved them from what Xherw, Ulcreziek, and they had done to themselves.
Xherw had broken them with his madness, and this?
This was just all Merish had been able to put back together.
To outsiders, it surely seemed like the largest tribe of Izril with so many Gnolls and animals, but it was not. Plain’s Eye had been made up of so many sub-tribes and groups that it had been vast beyond belief.
Those sub-tribes had scattered to the winds, if they hadn’t dissolved in infighting and guilt, fled to other tribes, or just…run. Merish had gone around finding every single one he could, convincing them to stick together, but this new tribe he led was made up of people still processing what they had done.
Or just in denial.
“Chieftain. More Drakes from Goisedall are demanding we halt and answer to them. And turn over the adventurers. Should I run them off?”
Merish broke away from talking with the Thousand Lances as a Gnollish woman trotted over. Viri stuck his tongue out at Chief Warrior Vhra, who was one of the highest-level warriors remaining. Like Merish, she had experience leading their people into battle.
Unlike Merish, she’d never gone to Rhir, had been a staunch supporter of Chieftain Xherw, and fought with Plain’s Eye until their surrender. She was a traitor, but no one had put her in chains or judged her.
How could he? If he condemned every warrior who’d fought with Xherw, there would be none left to guard the tribe, and many were people who had known nothing about what they were doing.
Vhra had stayed out of duty to her people, and even if she clearly disliked Merish for both killing Xherw and taking a side against Plain’s Eye, she could not deny what she had seen.
Nor…her own fur.
Vhra held the spear at her side as Merish shook his head, and her fur was covered in muck from the animals, pieces of grass, and dirt from the road. Despite all of that—and he suspected she sometimes rolled around in the grass just to get more colors on her—her fur was pearly white. Just like Mrsha’s.
Vhra was a Doombearer, like many of Plain’s Eye. She’d lost her fur colors after the Meeting of Tribes, and it was probably the only reason she wasn’t forming her own tribe and denouncing Merish as a heretical traitor who’d engaged in some kind of conspiracy to destroy Plain’s Eye.
She saw him glance at her fur and stood straighter.
“Chieftain?”
“…No, don’t run them off. Let them follow and keep them off us, Vhra.”
“We could loose a few arrows—”
“They can’t do anything to us, yes, Vhra?”
“They’re trying to push their authority on us. Plain’s Eye takes orders from no one—”
“Plain’s Eye used to take orders from no one, Vhra. Leave the Drakes be.”
She stood there silently, then nodded.
“What about the adventurers and [Knights]? Keep an eye on them?”
Merish felt at the sword he’d been given by Dame Rosenthine. He handed it to Vhra, who eyed the blade.
“Find who’s our best sword-expert and give it to them. Give both groups respect. No need to watch either. They stand out.”
She sniffed.
“Does Honored Mrsha the Great and Infinitely Powerful demand that too?”
“They’re friends of our allies, and I have heard they have helped Gnolls, the Silver Swords. And if Mrsha the Great and Truly Terrible wants them protected, we shall do it, Vhra. If she wants someone to dig a tunnel from here to Baleros, I shall, of course, sign you up.”
Her glower was deep, but she flushed as he pointedly glanced at her fur. She strode off, and Viri leaned over.
“I hate her.”
“Viri, you love or hate my tribe with nothing in between.”
“Well…I don’t do ‘meh’. Why do you keep her around?”
“Because she can lead a group of our warriors into a fight outnumbered three-to-one and come out the other side, Viri.”
“Oh. Right. Darn, I hate good reasons like that.”
This was Merish’s problem. Even if the tribe stuck together, his leadership was always being challenged. He had the backing of Feshi and other tribes, but they weren’t here, and by the same token, he needed Plain’s Eye not to splinter again.
We must work together or we shall be divided and die. That was why he had Vhra and another pain in his tail.
“Chieftain. I have an important matter to discuss.”
Merish sighed.
“Shaman Frivet. Can this wait? We have important guests, and I would like to establish our camp in the New Lands at last.”
Frivet was another Xherw-supporter. But worse, he’d been the apprentice of Ulcreziek, and the [Shaman] glowered back at Merish. However, Frivet was the highest-level.
“A Gnoll of some interest to Plain’s Eye has joined us. Nailren. You should speak to him before he departs.”
“Nailren?”
Merish had never heard the name before, and he perked up one ear as Frivet drew closer. The [Shaman] growled in his ear as they pretended to walk, inspecting the cattle.
“He’s one of our people who undertakes clandestine missions.”
Merish grew instantly alarmed.
“Like the Doomslayers? If he’s one of them—”
“He is not, Chieftain. He’s an agent of Hawkarrow. A very good one. Fletchsing. They’re a fake tribe—argh, if you were a proper Chieftain, you’d know this! The point is that he claims to be retired, but he has valuable intelligence. Intelligence no one should get ahold of, from those [Knights] to the adventurers.”
Frivet jerked his head at the Thousand Lances, and Merish grunted softly.
“Can’t you ask him what he knows in private?”
“He won’t speak to me. Or Vhra. He recognizes us as…original Plain’s Eye.”
The [Shaman] grew visibly uncomfortable, and Merish eyed him dryly.
“Well, good thing you have me. Send him to me once there’s a moment.”
More work to do. Merish’s shoulders hurt. He had never wanted this. But someone had to be [Chieftain]. Someone had to kill Xherw, and now…
He gazed across the New Lands as the song of Gnolls rose in the air, and his spirits lifted.
“A new opportunity. For all of us.”
That’s what he hoped they’d find here.
 
——
 
Chieftain Merish did not seem to be the most popular Gnoll around, Ylawes realized. When the Plain’s Eye Gnolls began to slow and spread out after marching half a day into the New Lands, most of the Gnolls formed camps without consulting him. Even the Gnolls who were waiting for orders seemed not to quite know what to make of him.
“Chieftain Merish? He’s, uh, uh…you should ask someone else about him. I don’t wanna get in trouble, y’hear?”
Their source of information was the young [Rancher], Cullous, the same boy who’d run on the cattle’s backs and given Infinitypear and Rasktooth some fresh milk. He was wide-eyed, excited to see adventurers, but evasive on Merish.
“But how’s Plain’s Eye doing, lad? After the Meeting of Tribes. And with the Doombearers?”
Dawil was helping the boy milk some of the cattle, and Rasktooth and Infinitypear were earning their snack as well. Cullous shrugged.
“Um…good? Lots of people left. Most people’re upset about there being Doombearers. Especially the Doombearers. Vhra’s so mad she’ll bite your head off for mentioning her fur. But I guess Chieftain Merish is making everyone work. I mean, someone has to.”
“Sounds like he’s not that popular.”
Dawil suggested, and Cullous hesitated.
“No…but no one’s gonna get a new Chieftain or the other tribes’ll, y’know. And Xherw got everyone killed. That’s what my ma says.”
“You doing alright yourself, lad?”
“Sure. I mean, my dad and uncle and both aunts died at the Meeting of Tribes. But I guess…that was our fault, right?”
The boy stood, then, with buckets of milk in hand, and he gazed blankly at the cow. Dawil paused. He glanced at the boy as Ylawes looked up from greedily eating some cheese and bread—freshly made cheese that tasted so sweet and decadent—
Cullous’ fur was red, but Ylawes stopped chewing on a sample bit of cheese for a second as he noticed an oddity; some of the fur on Cullous’ arms was white in patches. Almost like…
Dye. He exchanged a look with Dawil, and Cullous instantly scrubbed at his fur, averting his eyes. So he’d been at the Meeting of Tribes. But the Dwarf just patted Cullous on the shoulder with a kind smile.
“You didn’t do any of that fighting, did you, lad?”
“No. I just ran away.”
“Then I reckon you weren’t old enough to be carrying that blame. At least, not anything heavier than that bucket. Where do we put this before Poke Duo drink this too?”
Cullous’ face broke out of that blank stare, and he grinned.
“They can have as much milk as they want. They’re funny. Everyone likes distractions since—here’s where the milk goes.”
They had a specially-made wagon that you could add milk to, which stored it and kept it from spoiling. It’d even turn into buttermilk; it spun slowly as it was pulled along thanks to some ingenious work with wooden cogs. Dawil whistled.
“Who made this?”
“Oh, some Gnolls who went to Pallass. We’ve got other stuff like that. Rotating the stuff keeps it from goin’ bad, unless it’s fruits, which get mushed. Once we fill this up, we’ll pasteurize it. See that spot below the barrel? You heat it up, then you gotta ice it. Pain in the butt. And we gotta do it without magic in the New Lands, the [Shamans] say! At least some of us have got [Free Pasteurization] or [Frozen Storage].”
Skills for a people who needed them. Ylawes was impressed, and then he heard a howl and a voice.
“Plain’s Eye! We have arrived!” 
Chieftain Merish. He stood on top of a wagon as Viri bounded up and down next to him. The [Chieftain] shouted at the Gnolls who had formed smaller groups.
“Each sub-tribe is to find a place they choose to camp! This territory might not be yours—be careful of others who have put down claims! For fifty miles north and fifty miles south of here, we shall rest! We shall trade with expeditions in need of supplies. Do not oversell your herds. For every animal you slaughter or sell, two more must be kept or bought. Do not take credit, and if you must barter, ensure it is something needed in the New Lands. Report any strange things to your [Shaman], and they shall be in contact with me. Vhra shall patrol each camp, but ensure she is not needed.”
Then he hopped down from the wagon, and the Gnolls began to move.
“Forests, that didn’t sound precise enough at all. Will they be okay?”
Falene was shocked by how simple the instructions were, but Dawil snorted.
“They’ve got to be used to living more independently than us, Falene. Larr, is that how it’s done?”
The [Ranger] didn’t know since he’d never been outside of Hawkarrow, and they apparently did it differently, but Anith raised a paw.
“It sounds close to how the Beastkin Tribes do it, Falene. A few broad orders for each tribe and then you can do details. Plain’s Eye is less one big, central tribe and more a collective. See? Chieftain Merish is planting his main camp here, and the others will move around him.”
The Gnoll was indeed striding around the largest gathering of tents, and when Ylawes approached, the [Chieftain]’s plan was obvious.
“There is too much uncertainty in the New Lands past this point. I will send parties and explore when I can myself, but I will not take my people there, no. What I will do is let them graze, here, where it is safe enough. There is plenty of grassland, and once we find the best spots, we shall try to claim them. In the meantime, we shall act much as Goisedall has done. Feed the hungry and earn coin enough to be profitable, yes? Only, we’ll do it before the Drakes.”
He grinned at Ylawes. The Human man hesitated.
“Won’t the Drakes object to you taking their business?”
Plain’s Eye was going to be right in front of Goisedall and the other cities! They’d get the people in the New Lands coming to them first. Merish snorted.
“Well they might. But as I see it, they could pack up and move further inland to beat us. If they cannot, or will not, it is just fair business. Besides, we shall all be rich; my tribe alone cannot feed so many. They’ll just have the richest pick of it. Hrr, though I do not think ‘fair business’ is what I would associate with Goisedall. Tell me about what we interrupted, Captain.”
Ylawes strode besides Merish as the huge Gnoll walked his camps. Gnolls were throwing up yurts with tremendous speed and practice, and cookfires were already rising.
Everything we lacked in the expedition. No one was using magic; Gnolls were using flint and tinder in places and going to stockpiles for food and supplies. The lack of magic that had haunted the Gnolls for so long had meant they had found ways to do without. Ylawes coughed.
“I…made a grave misjudgement in choosing my employers, Chieftain. Everything that’s happened since is a result of my foolishness. I thank you greatly for your help, and I wish to assure you that my team has not committed any acts I think are worthy of imprisonment. But the Merchant’s Guild seems to believe otherwise. Merchant Anlam has spoken to them, and I believe he’s misrepresented the truth.”
Here, the [Chieftain]’s head ducked low, and Ylawes took in the Gnoll for the first time. Merish was a physically imposing Gnoll. As a former [Shamanic Warrior], he was over seven feet tall, brawny, and had the markings of his tribe that he could activate in a fight.
But that was the Gnoll who he had been. Instead of the simple cloth clothing, he now walked with the mantle of a Chieftain over his shoulders; brightly dyed fabrics with eyes on them, only, Ylawes realized, this wasn’t like the traditional garb some of the Plain’s Eye Gnolls wore.
The eyes that were customary to Plain’s Eye were no longer their central motif. Instead, a white pawprint was on the back of Merish’s mantle, a cluster of spears drawn below it—broken. The eyes floated above the symbol, some closed, some open. Some weeping blue and red.
And his fur was white. Snow white. Where it was not white, Ylawes saw scarred skin, and the Chieftain had many scars. The most visible and recent was a huge slash mark across one cheek. Wounds he had received in his duel with Chieftain Xherw.
He looked like Ylawes had felt, only more so—someone bearing the scars and wounds of Izril’s most disgraced tribe. But until this very moment, Merish had been a dynamo of action. When he stopped, the scars seemed to appear and grow more visible. His shoulders tensed, then slumped, and when he looked up—Ylawes saw his brave face recede a bit.
“I know what that is like, Captain Ylawes. Putting my faith behind the wrong leader…you woke up well before I, and it was not as grave. Believe me, I understand your shame. But you must move on, no?”
He put a gentle paw out, and Ylawes recalled all of what Merish must have done or been. A tribe of Doomslayers, Chieftain Xherw. He was ashamed to bring up his own woes before the weary Gnoll, but Merish rested a paw on his shoulder and squeezed tight.
“Hold steady, Captain Ylawes. Atone for your deeds by action, not guilt alone. Goisedall will not touch you with us here, but we have little power with the Merchant’s Guild. Almost everything of Plain’s Eye’s wealth was sold to survive the winter and buy enough supplies to come here. Yelroan…well, I am also told that The Wandering Inn is helping you. Can they resolve this?”
Ylawes nodded rapidly.
“Yes! I reached out to my sister, my father, and Lyonette. All of them agreed to help—I haven’t heard back from any, but Ysara was going to intercede with the guild directly, and my father is speaking to a representative as well.”
—And he hadn’t heard back from Lyonette, which was odd. She’d been busy yesterday. Maybe there was a Solstice event at the inn?
Ylawes had hopes, anyways, and Merish smiled.
“Well, it seems straightforwards. Let’s camp bef—”
Then, high overhead as the sun was setting in the sky, Ylawes swore he saw one of the two moons appear overhead. He blinked upwards as the green moon seemed to flash—then drip a tear downwards towards the north. Merish blinked up at the skies.
“Strange. Did you see that?”
“I did, Chieftain. I swore I saw the moon wink.”
They stared upwards, then Merish put two fingers in his mouth and whistled. His [Shaman] came running as the two stared up, and the Thousand Lances, Gnolls, and everyone else gazed up at the moon.
Then Ylawes began hearing howls of alarm, and Merish spun as Chief Warrior Vhra yelled at him.
“Chieftain! [Dangersenses] from everyone! The worst they’ve felt!”
“To arms! Children in the center!”
Everyone was running then, and the Thousand Lances drew their blades as they searched for a threat—but where? Where was it? Ylawes ran towards Rasktooth and Infinitypear.
“Rasktooth! Your [Dangersense]—any idea where it’s coming from?”
The Cave Goblin sat on Infinitypear’s shoulders, and his normally confident expression even in the face of danger had turned to one of uncertainty. He whispered to Ylawes, very quietly, as Falene put a finger to her temple.
“I’m getting a [Message] from Wistram—dead gods.”
She went pale, and Ylawes leaned over.
“What? Your [Dangersense], Rasktooth?”
“It not activating, Captain.”
“What?”
But every single Gnoll—Rasktooth spoke very quietly.
“Maybe…everyone in danger. Except for me.”
Then the [Knight] stood there as Falene Skystrall turned and spoke.
“They said a Goblin King has emerged. In Liscor, Ylawes.”
“What?”
He didn’t know what to think. He didn’t believe it. The inn—
Ylawes was asking for details from Falene as everyone stood and watched the moon shining. Then pulsing more ‘tears’ down to earth. Wondering what was happening.
Forty-six minutes later—
The moon cracked.
 
——
 
“We ride for Liscor, now. Thousand Lances, to me! Squire, you will remain here. Ser Ylawes, if you do not ride for House Byres, I beg you, keep Thellabell safe. Forwards the Thousand Lances in the name of the Hundred Heroes!”
There was a quality that you picked up in The Wandering Inn, Ylawes realized. The [Knight] hadn’t realized it fully, but it was in seeing the reaction of the Thousand Lances of Kaaz and the Plain’s Eye Gnolls versus the Silver Swords to the news of a Goblin King.
For here were two major powers of the world. The world’s finest [Knights] and the tribe formerly known as the largest and strongest of Izril. They had just been informed that a Goblin King had emerged in Liscor—then been treated to the mind-numbing sight of a Harpy, multiple Dragons, and the moon itself seeming to attack the Goblin King.
The battle would be over before any of them made it. Whatever the Goblin King did would be history by the time any of them passed Manus, let alone Pallass.
This, Ylawes knew, and it was a bitter fact. Whatever had happened at The Wandering Inn, he was too late. He would wear the sin of that fact on his chest forever.
However—
Dame Rosenthine was still the [Knight] that set Ylawes Byres’ heart to flame. As soon as she understood what was going on, and saw that armored figure tearing out of the inn, she was mounted, and her lance of Adamantium was thrusting into the air.
Ser Pavoriad, Ser Brindelhor, and Lord Volede were right behind her. Ser Pavoriad only hesitated a moment.
“Should we not link up with the Walled Cities, Dame Rosenthine? We will not stop him alone. Better to die side-by-side with allies who might slay him.”
“We will sort it out on the journey northwards. Ride!”
Rosenthine was galloping when her [Squire] cried out.
“Knightess, take me with you!”
She was running, full-tilt, for her horse at amazing speed, but Rosenthine turned her galloping horse and, to Ylawes’ astonishment, rode her own [Squire] down. Her lance knocked Thellabell flat with a blow that must have bruised her despite her armor.
“Nay—you are a mere [Squire], and I will not have you die to no end. Back.”
“I would rather die with you, Rosenthine—”
“You are a [Squire] of the Thousand Lances. It is not for you to choose where to die!”
The [Knight]’s voice was a thunder of ringing metal, and the very weight of her aura made Ylawes stagger, but Ser Brindelhor was the one who rode past her.
“‘Tis not something that befits her honor to be saved from valorous death when every blade is needed, Rosenthine. We ride to the side of the Hundred Heroes. Let us go together.”
Rosenthine hesitated, and her visor rose and revealed an anguished face, contorted, as her [Squire] begged her.
A drama. A tragedy. [Knights] preparing to ride north knowing it was their deaths.
Plain’s Eye was a flurry of orders as Merish restored calm. Bellowing.
“No one is to move, not one of you! Vhra, prepare your [Warriors]!”
“To head north?”
He slashed the air as the panicked Doombearer lifted her spear. Merish pointed—eastwards.
“No. You will ride for the Meeting of Tribes and the Great Plains if we must. We are far from Liscor. The Tribes will form an army. Calm. Frivet, to me! I need your council!”
Panic among the Gnolls. Cullous, the boy, was waving his arms, trying to prevent a stampede as he ran after the cattle who’d picked up on the panic.
Goblin King. That was what the very name could elicit. And, ironically, everyone had forgotten about the Goblin in their midst for a moment.
Rasktooth was shrinking down as small as he could, anyways. He’d gotten off Infinitypear’s shoulders, and he sat, cross-legged, staring north. His face was wrinkled up in confusion, and Ylawes?
Well, it was that quality from The Wandering Inn that struck him, now. He glanced around, and Vuliel Drae was mostly frozen. Infinitypear was holding his spear, searching for something to stab.
But Ylawes, Dawil, and Falene? They were all looking at each other, and Ylawes felt his skin prickling. They were like…
Ordinary people, able to move and think, amidst a play. The drama with the Thousand Lances arguing, the Plain’s Eye tribe running around were like the secondary actors and primary actors in the Players of Celum, but Ylawes wasn’t part of the play.
He was a member of the audience who vaguely needed to pee. Not in the sense that he took this lightly, but in the sense that he had felt this before. Been here before. And it was the inn.
There was someone else who existed in their free world. A Gnoll with a bow, who was watching, like Ylawes. The [Knight] locked eyes with Nailren, and the Gnoll nodded at him as he strode over.
“Ylawes. The reason Lyonette was missing—”
“I hope not. But that was the inn. I swear, I saw Saliss there. And Lord Xitegen.”
“I as well. Ishkr, too, that damn idiot. I don’t care if he’s realer than Lupp-corn. Grimalkin. No sign of Mrsha or Nanette.”
“Could the [Garden of Sanctuary] save them from…”
Ylawes’ blood was ice, and Nailren’s face was grave.
“I don’t know. If anything could, it would be that, but—”
“Knight Byres! Will you take my apprentice or ride with us?”
Ylawes and Nailren turned. Dame Rosenthine was standing in her saddle as her warhorse tossed its head, a screaming stallion with a dappled ivory coat and blowing sapphire mane, a begging [Squire].
Chieftain Merish facing them. Ylawes Byres stared up at the moon. Then turned to Nailren again, and he swore this wasn’t bravado.
Just…
A man’s madness. His way of making peace with all the tragedy and glory that he had seen. Ylawes slowly took off his helmet that he’d shoved onto his head. Then cleared his throat. As Rosenthine’s eyes blazed at him with that impatience of a good, brave woman, a legend, he glanced about.
“I think…I’m going to watch the scrying orb. We will remain here until we know where the Goblin King is moving. Silver Swords—Insill, Dasha, get something to eat. Rasktooth, I’d like any insights. Infinitypear, put that spear down; the Goblin King isn’t going to teleport on our position, and if he does, it’s too late. Falene, send a [Message] spell to The Wandering Inn. Try to get something out of Liscor, but I doubt they have time to talk.”
Then he sat down on the grass. He thought Ser Brindelhor nearly horked out a lung, so hard was he coughing in incredulity. Dame Rosenthine visibly recoiled with the other of the Thousand Lances, and Merish’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“Ser Byres, are you mad?”
However, Nailren just sat down with Ylawes, head bowed. Neither man smiled, but Ylawes was already uncorking a water flask. He drank as the [Knights] rode towards him.
“We are too far away to do a thing. If the Goblin King is moving north or south, a few hours to establish what he is doing will not take undue amounts of time.”
“True, but it is a Goblin King! Destroyer of kingdoms! The Goblin Kings have ended more of the Hundred Families of Terandria than any war or event! They decimated Izril’s north! Your nobles have never recovered! Have you lost sense of your bravery, Ser?”
Lord Volede’s voice was sharp and outraged, for once. But he did not expect Ylawes’ eyes to meet the older man’s levelly. The blue-eyed gaze of the [Knight] had a hint of steel in it.
“He is in Liscor. The Wandering Inn. A place I hold near and dear to my heart. When this is over, if the inn is gone and the Goblin King lives, I will ride north. Without my team, if I must. Then I will die, or he will. I realize that is bravado, Lord Volede, but you have my word I will do so.”
“But you do not ride now?”
“We are too far. And it is The Wandering Inn.”
No one understood what he was talking about, and Ylawes found that hilarious. He drank from his water flask as Nailren broke out some dried clams. The [Knight] stuffed some into his mouth. His hand—shaking.
But what they saw, the Gnolls, the Terandrians, was the gleam of Ylawes’ eyes. He wasn’t looking at them or at the scrying orb depicting artillery spells being fired at Liscor, the Floodplains, piercing the raining clouds. His gaze was far distant, fixed on someone else.
A frozen woman lying on a bier of stone. And—the sight of a young woman wheeling around in a chair, doing small miracles, eyes filled with secrets.
“If he survives, I will try to kill him. But I am not so arrogant as to think I am needed, Lord Volede.”
“It is the Goblin King, young man.”
Ylawes’ eyes rose, and then they shone with an intensity that had the [Knight] reaching unconsciously for his sword hilt.
“Yes. And that inn belongs to my friend, the [Innkeeper]. Rasktooth, get over here!”
The Cave Goblin hobbled over with Infinitypear’s help, and Falene sat down slowly. In a puddle of robes as Dawil collapsed onto the ground.
“Those kids, lad…”
“I know. Watch, Dawil. Rasktooth, is it the Goblin King?”
“M-maybe. But it all wrong. He so big. So scary. Why no one notice? He scream so loud—and why he so familiar?”
Rasktooth was peering north, an uncertain expression on his face. Ylawes listened. Sat. Drank water as the Thousand Lances hesitated, and Plain’s Eye circled around them. Until…
The end.
That—more than anything—was what the Thousand Lances and Gnolls remembered. The sight of an adventuring team waiting to know what happened. Not calmly, but with a certainty that held when the world shook.
A conviction that maybe it would be tragedy. Or maybe—just maybe—somehow—
The Goblin King would be the one who lost.
And they were right.
 
——
 
Obviously, it took a lot more reassurances than the news from the scrying orbs that the Goblin King was dead to defuse the situation.
But to Ylawes Byres, it was done. He stood, at last, and went to pee.
Then he peed for three minutes straight. He counted to a hundred and ninety-six seconds—that was how much water he’d been drinking out of nerves when waiting.
A pair of Gnolls, Cullous, and an older [Rancher] stared at Ylawes as he stepped away from the latrines. His bladder hurt from holding it in, and that…
That was better than wondering who’d die this time.
“Looks like we continue. Don’t bother them, Falene. Don’t…just don’t.”
She nodded at him, and he sat and hugged Pekona, one-armed. She was wide-eyed, but she leaned against him and embraced him with her good arm as she felt him shivering. And then—
A call from Lyonette. Where he knew something was so terribly wrong, but she just told him to continue.
Ylawes Byres thanked her and sat. Plain’s Eye settled, and explanations were demanded. Everyone watched Channel 1 of Wistram News Network. Saw Drassi paddling a boat into the Flood Plains, hunting for evidence—
Dame Rosenthine was speaking to Kaaz, and Merish was talking to other Gnoll [Chieftains]. Ylawes just sat there. Shivering like a man with a cold.
“We’d never have made it, lad. It was too late. We left because your house was attacked, remember?”
Dawil said it at last, lips pale, sipping from a cup of Velrusk Claw going around. Ylawes just leaned against Pekona, shivering.
“I know. I know, damn it all. I just wish.”
“Yeah. Me too, lad.”
They sat there into the long night, until dawn broke. And a little Gnoll girl padded into camp.
Hey.
Mrsha looked terrible. Thin and exhausted, but Ylawes woke up from his dozing near the embers and sat up. He gazed at her as she rubbed at her eyes.
“Mrsha? Is everything—?”
Everyone’s alive. Everyone, Ylawes. I came by to tell people that. Can’t stay long. Gotta tell Fetohep, then Ilvriss, then…
He didn’t believe her. But she was…Mrsha. Her eyes seemed to contain that aftermath he expected. So the [Knight] just reached out.
“You did it.”
I guess. I didn’t do much. But yeah, it’s over, I think. Sorry for making a mess of it, Ylawes.
You’re a kid. You’re allowed to…Ylawes whispered.
“You’re allowed to make a mess of things just so long as you’re alright, Mrsha. You are alright?”
He saw her pause, then smile at him as she wrote with that glowing paw in the air.
No. But I might be. Go to sleep, Ylawes. We made it.
He must have passed out, then. Because he didn’t remember what else he said to her. He didn’t want to take her time. He knew she had to be so, so tired…
The [Knight] slept. And the world went back to normal and got to pretend nothing had happened the day thereafter. Certainly, the Thousand Lances and Gnolls did, or that they’d misunderstood something. It had been a Goblin King, maybe, but a fluke. Not like the real thing. They’d figure it out.
But Ylawes knew. He knew and continued.
And promised to come back and find the truth one day. When he had finished his adventure. He would believe it all.
That night, he realized that when he thought of home, he often imagined House Byres as he’d grown up, cannonballing into the silver springs with Ysara and Yvlon. Reading books of [Knights] in his keep. But other times, he just imagined that inn and common room overflowing with wondrous chaos.
He wanted to go back to it.
Then, he slept. When he woke up, it was back to his adventure.
 
——
 
The Thousand Lances had spent the night in the Plain’s Eye’s company with ill sleep, and it showed. Nevertheless, they were up and practicing swordplay at dawn. Probably to reassert some normality, if nothing else.
Everyone was sleep-deprived. Insill was making morning tea in one of his boots. Dasha had left her comb in her beard, and Ylawes had woken up and nearly kicked the strange anaconda in his bedroll until he realized it was Pekona.
However, ‘normality’ began to reassert itself as everyone stopped talking about the Goblin King. It was that or go crazy—he knew how that felt too. For his part, he had a few words with his team.
“Sounds like the inn handled it. Mrsha visited me this morning. She said she’s well.”
“Hah. Who died?”
“No one, according to her, Dawil.”
“Lad, that’s crazy, even for the inn.”
“I know, but let’s accept it. She didn’t look like she was lying. Okay, she seemed like someone had been beating her with emotional sticks, but…”
Falene poked at some Gnollish silkap simmering on a flatstone with some bread. Her stomach growled.
“I’ll ask around. And I, uh, levelled up last night. A big level.”
“Oh?”
Wasn’t she only Level 36 , though? Not a capstone. Dawil and Ylawes turned, and Falene moodily poked at the fire, not gazing at Ylawes and Pekona.
“What’s today’s job?”
“Um, see if Ysara or my father cleared up the Merchant’s Guild mess? I’ll remind them of it. Then—we’ll see. I might ask if I can talk to the Thousand Lances. I mean—I’ll never get another chance.”
Ylawes was watching an amazing bout between Ser Pavoriad and Ser Brindelhor, two longswords versus the greatsword that made the air ring. Bared blades clashing against each other in such a thrilling sparring match it looked like a battle from stories—if not for the fact that Ylawes could tell both men were holding back. Dawil drained his mug of tea.
“Sounds like a good distraction. Blagh. Insill! This tea tastes like your socks!”
 
——
 
Ylawes’ request to spar with the Thousand Lances before breakfast was the most consequently inconsequential moment that morning. Gnolls, rattled from yesterday, perked their ears up as Dame Rosenthine put her sword against her shoulder. She’d been air-battling imaginary monsters, and her [Squire], helmetless, had been swinging her sword and shield in practice motions.
“A sparring match?”
“Nothing so formal, Dame Rosenthine! I realize I wouldn’t hold a candle to the Thousand Lances, but I just—wished to see your capabilities!”
Ylawes flushed, and the [Knightess] hesitated, then nodded at him.
“It would be no trouble for an informal bout, Ser Ylawes. For a [Knight] so…foresighted, we should oblige no less. But as you say, we would not wish to have an unequal match.”
She hefted her Adamantium longsword, and he noted how effortlessly she swung it and wondered how he’d fare with an unenchanted shield and sword.
Ser Pavoriad used two longswords, an incredible feat due to his height and strength. Ser Brindelhor, the greatsword, typical of his order, with crushing strength and alarming speed. Ser Volede, a flail and shield, and the long ball-and-chain could spin with alarming force. It was likely mithril, which allowed the elderly [Knight] to spin it with ease, and looked sharp as a ball of razors.
Dame Rosenthine was the most ‘conventional’ with her longsword, but she swung it so fast that the air kept making high-pitched sounds, and the grass billowed around her with her practice swings. Plus, all of them had enchanted armor. With Rosenthine in Adamantium…
I wouldn’t land a scratch, and they’d take me to pieces. Ylawes was conscious of his weakened body, but Rosenthine had an answer after a second.
“Would my squire be an appropriate match, Ser Byres? I would not like to pit a [Squire] against a full [Knight], but Thellabell has participated in duels against over a hundred and forty [Knights] and won over half. It is no insult, upon my honor, but a humble request to train her.”
“I’d be delighted, Dame Rosenthine.”
Privately, Ylawes was a bit sad he couldn’t match blades with her, but if he did well against the [Squire], why not? Thellabell certainly seemed excited and drew her longsword and shield, a copy of his gear, with great excitement.
“You fight in the classic style as well, Ser Byres? Were you trained in your swordsmanship in any particular school?”
“Er—only traditional Izrilian fighting, Squire Thellabell. By my [Tutors] and [Weapon Instructors]. Should we use practice weapons?”
“We do not normally hurt each other with blades. Though your armor—lost its enchantment? Thellabell, watch his armor. You may cut it—her sword is an [Evercut] blade as well as enchanted for durability, Ser Byres. Not a noble enchantment, I know, but it is condescension given her inexperience. I have not been willing to commit her to full combat without my supervision, as you saw yesterday. Thellabell is naïve to the cunning of her foes, inexperienced in true battle, impulsive and reckless, and seeks my guidance as a puppy does leadership.”
“Knightess!”
Thellabell was faintly sandy-haired as she snapped her visor shut and, from what Ylawes had seen, more brown-skinned than the other [Knights]. Her mentor and teacher went on, ruthless.
“You are a daughter of Kaaz, as am I, Thellabell. If you wish to truly become one of the Thousand Lances, I shall not allow you to rest on your laurels. Show Ser Ylawes the fruits of your training. Remember to keep your guard up—you drop it too low then raise it when it should be always centered.”
Thoroughly embarrassed, the [Squire] paced back and saluted Ylawes as he drew his sword and shield, and a crowd of onlookers gathered. Dawil shouted as he saw them drawing a dueling ground in the grass.
“Lad, you’d best not let us down! An egg on my boy!”
“Go, Captain!”
Dasha and Insill were cheering as Anith yip-howled, and Gnolls were calling out good-naturedly. Mostly for Ylawes; he was Izrilian. Falene was watching worriedly, and Pekona was shifting from foot to foot. It was the latter who came over.
“Ylawes, why are you dueling her?”
“To see how good the Thousand Lances are, Pekona. It’s a dream of mine.”
Surprised, Ylawes replied as he put on his helmet, and she bit her lip.
“She’s fast. Very fast. Very controlled. Probably…beyond even someone who’s mastered Sword Auras. That’s a…first-rank master of blades. Like a [Blademaster]. She’s better.”
The [Knight]’s brows rose as he watched Thellabell swishing at the air with her sword. He nodded at the silent, rust-armored [Knight] next to her, arms folded.
“Dame Rosenthine? I’ve heard she defeated a Cyclops in single combat when she was younger, decades ago.”
“No. The younger one.”
His own warm-ups with his sword slowed a second. Pekona’s eyes flicked to him, and then someone came over.
“Ser Ylawes! A word?”
Ser Pavoriad was all smiles this morning, but the [Knight] leaned on a little paddock fence the Gnolls had set up to coral their animals, patting a curious cow on the head as he beamed at them. His face didn’t change, but his voice lowered without him seeming to more than chat.
“This duel is a fine thing between [Knights]. Dame Rosenthine has a habit of sending her [Squire] out against most [Knights]—she receives challenges wherever she goes, of course.”
“I hope I’m not being indecorous, Ser Pavoriad?”
“No, no! If anything, the slight is upon the Thousand Lances’ honor! We should meet a [Knight] with a [Knight] to be truly chivalrous. Though that is also a problem, as it would not be fair in level or equipment. I merely remark that Rosenthine’s squire is no pushover, etiquette aside. She would be a full [Knight] in any other Knight Order. And she has bested veterans of said Orders, more than once. Merely a remark that you would do well to engage her at full strength.”
The half-Elf peered up at the clouds as if chatting about the weather, and Ylawes felt the first prickle of apprehension. However, this was a spar of pure friendship. He lifted his sword and saluted Squire Thellabell as she performed a complex sword-salute from Kaaz.
“In the honor of the Thousand Lances and Knightess Rosenthine, I accept this duel, Ser Ylawes of House Byres!”
She cried from behind her helmet, and he saluted her awkwardly.
“In—House Byres’ name, I accept and thank you, Dame Thellabell! To friendship and honor!”
They advanced as the audience watched, a friendly match after the Goblin King’s death. With about the same level of auspiciousness. Ylawes lifted his sword, and he touched blades with her gently, then stepped back. Despite Ser Pavoriad’s warnings, he swung a bit gently at Thellabell’s shield as she stepped forwards. He didn’t want to hurt—
Her first strike on his shield landed hard, and he grunted as it rang off his silversteel metal.
Dead gods, that’s a hard blow! So she wanted to make this a fight? He could respect th—
Then he saw her arms tense and realized she was heaving h—Ylawes’ feet left the ground as his shield-arm compressed against his side. He heard a shout, a massed gasp—
“Lad!”
—Hit the ground after flying several feet, stumbled, and saw her lunge. So fast and perfectly his shield came up, and he gasped.
[Shield of Valor].
He had never, ever seen someone hit his Skill and pierce it. The blade of the [Squire] slashed through his shield-Skill, hit his shield, and punched a hole through the lower part of the guard. It only halted before striking his armor when Rosenthine herself leapt forwards and seized the blade, bare-handed.
“Squire, watch your blade!”
Ylawes stared at the tip of Thellabell’s blade, which was in his silversteel plate armor, right below his liver. He saw the [Squire] back up, abashed, and then saw Dawil’s alarmed face. The [Knight] swallowed.
The [Squire] of the Thousand Lances came at him fast and hard when he reset his stance. He matched her blows, trying to block, strike, and the ringing of steel had the Gnolls covering their ears in moments. His shield-arm was dead in the next thirty seconds.
 
——
 
Dawil knew Ylawes was a good fighter. He’d fought beside his friend so many times—Ylawes had downed [Bandits], monsters like Gargoyles, and even fought Facestealer and kept himself alive.
He was a good fighter. Even other Gold-rankers didn’t have his practiced finesse. The Dwarf had thought that would mean that if even if he didn’t win, Ylawes would give a good fight to the Thousand Lances.
…He’d been away from home too long. Been too low-level to realize what the Thousand Lances were.
“She’s not Level 20. She’s Level 30 or higher, same as Ylawes. Dead gods, what do they feed their [Squires]?”
Thellabell kept coming. She was precise, fast, and strong enough to make Ylawes’ shield-arm quake. Maybe he hadn’t been using Skills at the start, but he was now. She was still pressing him back.
Mind you, Dawil thought that Ylawes was still stronger, but that was the only thing the Izrilian [Knight] had on Thellabell. In swordsmanship, she was outmaneuvering him.
He’d never even seen some of the things she was doing executed in combat. For instance, Thellabell hooked her shield on Ylawes’ from the inside, yanking his guard open and nearly cutting him with a slash, but for his swing that made her back up. The old shield-hook trick was one Dawil had seen a few times in practice courts and knew of.
But never seen in a fight. Falene was whispering to him.
“She’s a [Squire] of one of the Thousand Lances’ best [Knights]. Ylawes shouldn’t have taken the duel! He’s getting overwhelmed!”
“It’s just a duel, Falene. He’s probably delighted to fight his idols.”
“But she’s a squire!”
Certainly, Ylawes didn’t look happy. His too-honest face was a picture of alarm as Thellabell backed him around the dueling ring. She kept going for strikes to his helm, knees, or…
“She’s going for a wound.”
“Hm? Why?”
“It’s how you win duels, Dawil! Don’t tell me you don’t know [Knight] duels?”
“We don’t have many Dwarf-[Knights]. We don’t have an order in Deríthal-Vel. Right, the lad did say…”
In conventional Terandrian dueling, you didn’t kill each other or beat the other fellow down. It was first blood. So the two armored [Knights] were going back-and-forth, trying to score a blow on the other that drew blood.
A lot harder on the lad than Thellabell. The few times Ylawes managed a blow, it was against the heaviest parts of Thellabell’s armor, and hers was enchanted. His had lost its magic, and he had developed several dents already.
“C’mon, lad! Use your [Grand Slash]! Hit her with the old [Piercing Charge]!”
Dawil cupped his hands to his mouth and shouted. Instantly, Thellabell leapt back, abandoning her assault, and Dame Rosenthine slapped her forehead.
“Squire!”
—The one reason Thellabell hadn’t pressed her luck was because she seemed very wary of Ylawes, ready to put her shield up and guard if he used a Skill. Dawil’s shout made the [Squire] visibly falter to a chuckle of laughter, but then she was back on the attack. He saw her wind up, sword coming back, and—
Kkkrakow! The sound metal on metal made caused Dawil to wince. Ylawes reeled again, and this time, Falene groaned.
“He’s got to use his best Skills! Ylawes! Do the one where you run at her!”
She meant his weapon-art, [The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel]. It was Dawil’s turn to hiss at Falene.
“Pointy, are you mad? She’s a kid!”
“He’s going to lose! Do you want that?”
It’s just a duel. Dawil almost said that until he closed his mouth and considered honor and such. He was debating shouting at Ylawes again when Squire Thellabell evidently lost patience.
Ylawes had been hunkering behind his shield, waiting for his chance, the classic move of a sword-and-shield expert. He came out with a high swing as her own shield rose.
[Shieldbreaker].
Dawil saw his friend going for the blow that would knock Thellabell’s arm down or break her shield entirely. However, Thellabell was coiled up. Tense, like a spring. As Ylawes’ sword swung for her shield, she shoved the shield-arm up—sideways—
Backstepped as Ylawes’ blade missed her shield, and he tried to correct, and Dawil saw her moving at speeds only other [Warriors] could process, and maybe Falene—
A spinning slash across the neck. Dawil choked.
“L—”
Ylawes’ shield caught the tip of the sword, and it slashed off the top of the metal. He recoiled, jerking his head back—
“[Stunning Shield Bash]. [Burst of Greater Strength]!”
Thellabell slammed into Ylawes. The impact sent him reeling, and his guard was down, shield and sword knocked down. But he was raising his shield and sword when Thellabell used her third Skill of the duel:
“[Free Blow: Swallow’s Cut].”
She slashed across his shoulder-guard, and the faint splatter of blood was only a few drops, but Dawil saw Ylawes’ recoil, clutch at his shoulder, and it was done.
Blood struck the ground as the Gnolls gasped. Three blows executed in such close proximity that the experienced Gold-rank adventurer hadn’t had time to react.
Especially to the last one. Thellabell had moved almost simultaneously into the cut, like Relc’s [Triple Thrust]. A perfect blow into the moment she’d opened.
Blood ran from Ylawes’ shoulder as he raised his sword to attack, glanced at his open wound, and Ser Brindelhor bellowed.
“First blood, Thellabell! Swords down! This match of honor is over!”
Crestfallen, embarrassed, and visibly stunned, Ylawes lowered his blade. Thellabell pumped her sword into the air with a cry.
“For Kaaz and Knight Rosenthine!”
The tip of her sword was bloody, and she thrust back her visor, cheering, as Ylawes’ head sank. Right up until Dame Rosenthine strode over and punched the top of Thellabell’s visor.
“Squire, you will be my end! You embarrass us both! Ser Byres, I apologize. Ser Pavoriad, I am in need of a poultice for the evercut injury!”
She turned and bowed stiffly to Ylawes. Pavoriad was already coming over with a mortar and pestle. Thellabell protested.
“But, Dame Rosenthine, I won—”
“This is not a duel of honor but a sparring match, you thoughtless child! First blood may end the duel, but it is not honorable to always seek it! She equates victory with satisfaction, you see.”
Rosenthine was sighing, shaking her head over her talented [Squire]’s many missteps. But Ylawes? He glanced at Dawil, and the two had the same thought.
She’s top of Gold-rank or better without her armor. What monsters the Thousand Lances were.
 
——
 
The upside of Ylawes’ highly embarrassing defeat, if you could call it that, was that Thellabell proved it was no fluke. She took on six Gnolls after Ylawes, and each one she bested so fast and skillfully it salved his pride.
If not his stinging shoulder.
“She’s a Demon with that blade.”
Thellabell just hacked apart Vhra’s training-spear with three blows and put her sword at the Gnoll’s throat, and that was a full Plain’s Eye warrior with as much experience as Ylawes in combat. But whatever they had—Thellabell was just more practiced.
Ylawes had thought he’d worked hard on the practice courts, but every movement from the young [Squire] was like watching a spring-loaded blade moving with impeccable aim and timing. His shield-arm still hurt.
“Oh, aye, she’s Rosenthine’s squire for a reason. The finest candidate in all of Kaaz, to hear Rosenthine say it. Not that she goes lightly upon Thellabell. Especially for the New Lands; she almost forbade Thellabell to join her, but the girl would have like as not swum across the sea, armor and all. She’s that devoted.”
Ser Brindelhor rested his greatsword on his knees, cleaning his sword since he would not be dueling anyone. After all, if a [Squire] could best Ylawes so easily…
So that’s the difference between us. Ylawes hung his head, and he did know he’d let his team and House Byres down.
‘Uncourteous’ blow or not, as Rosenthine had put it, Thellabell had overwhelmed Ylawes then used her Skills to draw blood in such an effortless manner it made his cheeks red with shame. They…were of a level, he realized, and he had thought she was Level 28 or something. Not above Level 30. Now, he wondered if she were above his level.
So young, so peerless, so…she was like what they’d used to call him. A prodigy. Only, seeing Thellabell made Ylawes feel that term had been misapplied to him.
He sat there as the sixth Gnoll challenger went down, and Thellabell saluted the sky again.
“In the name of Infinite Kaaz! Will anyone else challenge me for the Thousand Lances’ honor? I should not like to disappoint our reputations!”
No one did, even if Viri was urging Chieftain Merish himself to take Thellabell on. This was the proof of the pudding: the Thousand Lances were superior, and embarrassment of Rosenthine or not, it was implicit in the others.
No one here can match us. Ser Pavoriad was smiling as he tended to the others with a poultice that apparently stopped the deadly [Evercut] enchantment from bleeding one to death, although natural healing would do that if the body was allowed enough time. Falene was squatting down as well, trying to practice dispelling the relatively rare enchantment.
But Ylawes was humbled. The Gnolls were not happy either, and Ylawes heard Vhra arguing with Merish.
“She’s not that good. Give me another shot, Chieftain, or time to find a warrior in the other clans! We could best her in a real fight!”
“Peace, Vhra. They have come under the banner of peace so we must offer it in kind. She’s made her point, and you showed your capabilities well.”
“But she’s making a mockery of us, same as the adventurers…!”
Ylawes flushed again, and Nailren was the one who spoke.
“A bit of humility would do us all better than arrogance, eh, Captain? I admire your restraint.”
He seemed relaxed and un-pressed to line up to duel Thellabell like a lot of hotheads. Dawil, who’d been about to rise, hesitated.
“The Thousand Lances are the world’s finest Knight-Order. But, eh, they are Terandrian to their cores, Nailren. Bit embarrassing, but I’d never thought of how it looks outside of home before. I’m glad you and the lad know how it is.”
He nodded at Ylawes, and Nailren grinned at him.
“This isn’t a battle, and young hotheads aside, Dawil, I don’t see any loss of face, eh? We all know what Captain Ylawes did. He’ll get hit in the head by a [Squire] or Facestealer and never waver.”
Ylawes felt better as Dawil sat with a laugh, and the Dwarf nodded and stopped favoring his hammer. Then he frowned.
“Well, er, let’s tell the team that, eh, lad?”
Ylawes sat up, then nearly shot to his feet because some people had taken his defeat personally. Namely…his team.
Infinitypear, Dasha, and even Larr were lining up to challenge Thellabell. But they were all right behind the person who had taken the most umbrage with Ylawes’ embarrassment:
Pekona. She had a hand on her wakizashi, and Thellabell was backing up, protesting.
“I cannot duel a one-armed woman, with great respect! Knightess—”
She turned, and Rosenthine agreed.
“Tie your shield-arm behind your back. Adventurer…Pekona, we need not shed more blood. I should be delighted to train together—”
She drew her sword, but Pekona jerked her head towards Thellabell.
“I want to spar her. Both arms. Or is mine not good enough?”
“It’s dishonorable to fight disadvantaged so.”
“So you’re better with two arms than I am with one?“
“Well…yes.. Evidently, two is better than one. Which is no denigration, just—”
Whatever sterling qualities Thellabell had in the art of fisticuffs were lacking in her tact verbally. Pekona was standing side-long, ready to draw her sword from her sheath in that lightning-fast draw technique that Ylawes had been dying to ask her to teach him. Evidently, Thellabell sensed it and sprang back, drawing her own shield and sword.
However…the two never had a chance to duel, because someone else shoved forwards at the same time as Rosenthine.
“Pekona, get back. She’s too high-level for you!”
Falene shoved Pekona back with a light gust of wind, and the [Sword Dancer] turned on her, incensed, but Falene was all coolness, raised chin. She grasped Pekona’s arm.
“Let me.”
“I can fight her—!”
The [Battlemage] met Pekona’s eyes.
“I know, but allow me, Pekona. Please?”
After a second, the [Sword Dancer] nodded and stepped back. Rosenthine knocked down Thellabell’s sword arm; the [Squire] had her sword raised, despite her reluctance.
“You’ve demonstrated your skill with a blade and little else, Squire. I apologize, Mage Falene, is it not?”
Ylawes relaxed even as he felt a bit…insulted and protective of Pekona. He hadn’t heard what Falene had said to her, but he felt like Pekona deserved a chance! However, the half-Elf nodded at Thellabell.
“Your [Squire] is a masterful bladeswoman, and well I can believe she has bested full [Knights] of Terandria, Dame Rosenthine. A talent even among the Thousand Lances, I take it?”
“Aye, and I regret any insult it may have caused. I wish to train her on countless foes lest a true enemy in battle be her last.”
Rosenthine bowed slightly, and Ylawes relaxed. See? That was it. A bit of hurt pride, a reminder he was out of shape given his hunger, and then—
Falene smiled slightly as Pekona tried to move forwards and Vuliel Drae caught her.
“Indeed, and she is far, far too adept for a Silver-ranker or even another warrior without enchanted weapons to best. Which is why I request the honor of a duel. It has been a while since I demonstrated my capabilities.”
“Falene?”
“Pointy?”
Dawil and Ylawes started to their feet as Falene stepped back, and Thellabell’s eyes lit up as she yanked her helmet off her head. Rosenthine hesitated, then sighed.
“I would not want it to be a point of honor or a grudge, Mage—”
“What grudge? Merely a [Mage] of Wistram’s curiosity. Shall we, Squire? Would you like us to stand closer? It is a handicap to my advantage, the further we are.”
“I should be delighted to test you, Mage Falene! Here is fine!”
Thellabell saluted Falene Skystrall, and the [Mage] smiled politely and adjusted her spectacles as Rosenthine stepped back with an audible sigh. Ser Pavoriad was glancing between the two, ready to object, when Falene smiled.
“Excellent! Then shall we begin? [Flame Arrow], [Shock Wheel], [Stone Shard], [Ice Spike], [Light Arrow], [Darkness Arrow], [Frozen Wind], [Shock Orb]—”
She began blasting spells at Thellabell, and the [Squire] recoiled before her shield caught the first Tier 1-2 spells on it, and her sword began cleaving the rest apart.
Cutting magic in twain. Ylawes groaned as Falene held her ground, not moving or using her footwork—because she didn’t have any, as he and Dawil well knew—just loosing spells as the [Squire] advanced in a hailstorm of magic. Cutting her way through like…well…
“Now that’s genius.”
Dawil commented, and Ylawes nodded. If Falene warned him, he could cut apart a spell she fired at him. One or two. Not when she unloaded her spells in her classic style. But Thellabell was doing it.
Even the Gnollish warriors had gone dead silent in amazement. The [Squire] was weaving through the spells, cutting, blocking, a grin on her face—she hadn’t even put her helmet on. She was pirouetting, leaning out of the way of spells, able to tell which would hit her and which would strike her armor, blade whirling through magic…
“She is. Though you shall never hear me admit it. Ser Byres, I have embarrassed myself as I am wont to do with Thellabell, though no more than she does.”
Dame Rosenthine surprised Nailren, Dawil, and Ylawes as she walked back to them. They saw Falene backing up, brows furrowed as her spectacles flashed, and Thellabell kept coming.
And Falene was doing everything right. Thellabell leapt a low [Surge of Water] spell and nearly slipped on the [Mud Pit], only to stab the ground with her sword, twirl back a pace, then slap a [Flame Bolt] spell into the ground. She hopped onto the spot burned dry, ducked a [Sticky Webs] spell—advanced.
Like it was a game. Rosenthine watched her [Squire], eyes visibly proud and a bit dismayed.
“I kept her from fighting the Drakes not for fear she’d be hurt, but that her blade would kill a few from its enchantment. Take it not amiss, I pray you, Ser.”
“Not…at all, Dame Rosenthine.”
She apologized a lot for one of the world’s foremost [Knights], which is surely what she was if Ylawes was a judge. But Rosenthine just murmured.
“Already, she is so good, and a girl of nineteen. Would you believe she is still a [Squire] at Level 35? A [Squire of Excellence] no less.”
Dawil snorted water out of his nose.
“What? What kind of a [Squire] is Level 35—!?”
“One who keeps the class that she might rise ever-higher, Adventurer Dawil. It is not a common thing in other lands, I take it. [Squires] are more Terandrian, or so I have heard. Training classes yield greater results the longer they are kept. And Thellabell is the most talented [Squire] in Kaaz, my word upon it. Someday, she will surpass me.”
Ah, and there it was. The smile on Rosenthine’s face was not quite motherly nor that of a satisfied tutor, but something different. The radiant expression of a setting sun, still glorious, anticipating another’s rise to burn even brighter. Ylawes just stood there and felt, for the first time in his life, jealous.
…No, not first. He’d felt this with Yvlon before. When she’d risen past him in levels and fame. And with his sister, Ysara. He willed the emotion down—why was it just with other women? But to see Thellabell—
She was almost upon Falene when the [Battlemage] clicked her heels and vanished.
She reappeared with a pop in front of Dawil, Ylawes, and Nailren, and there was a shout.
“Foul! One does not escape a duel so!”
Falene raised her staff, and Thellabell slowed and turned to Ser Brindelhor. She bowed to him slightly.
“I apologize, Ser Knight. I did not know. It is common practice in Wistram’s duels. I shall refrain if we may continue?”
“Yes, though I fear I have you, Mage Falene!”
Thellabell was a tad bit overconfident. Ylawes’ smile hurt as his teeth rubbed together, and he willed Falene to cast a [Fireball]. Just a light one. But Falene was smiling at Thellabell, calm, like she were teaching a youngster in a village a bit about magic. The wise Wistram [Mage], who liked to claim she was older than everyone.
“I have not used all my magic, [Squire]. I trust your armor can survive [Lightning Bolt]? [Fireball]? I would not like to hurt you.”
“Aye, without harm to me, Mage! But if you struck me with either, I should give you the victory of the duel for it! Cast away!”
Thellabell even stepped back, and Falene fiddled with her spectacles.
“Very well, I shall. Just so you know, I did change my class last night, Ylawes, Dawil.”
Both of her teammates glanced up, and Dawil’s mouth fell open.
“At Level 36? Pointy! You didn’t say a word, you sneaky half-Elf you!”
A gasp, then a cheer from the side, and the Silver Swords leaned forwards, but Thellabell frowned.
“Oh, my pardons, Mage Falene. I hope it was not too disfavorable?”
Even Falene hesitated here.
“Disfavorable? It was a class consolidation, why would it be disfavorable…?”
“Squire.”
Rosenthine made a gesture, but Thellabell didn’t notice. With that brutal honesty of someone with no tact—and Ylawes had never met anyone with less tact than he had—she replied.
“In Kaaz, it is well-known that capstones empower classes. However, any class that levels in intervals not of ten are considered ‘off-classes’. The result of mismanaged synergies or desperation. They do have power, but fall behind traditional classes. A [Hedge Mage]’s consolidations, or a slower route to true classes.”
Ylawes shifted. He’d been Level 25 when he’d become a [Knight], since he’d had no formal [Squire] training himself or Order. Did that mean…?
Even Ser Brindelhor was coughing into a gauntlet and buffing his armor as Falene stood there, face cool, and Thellabell realized she was calling Falene’s class ‘substandard’ to her face. The [Squire] colored.
“Er, what I meant was—”
“I am sure Kaaz of the Infinite Dungeon is wise in all matters class-related, as are the Thousand Lances, Squire. Shall we see if my half-made class can compete with the excellence of yours? [Fireball].”
Falene hip-fired the spell from her staff, and Thellabell swallowed, then cut the fiery strands of the [Fireball] apart. They exploded in two pieces behind her as everyone took a long step back. And Ylawes had to say, internally—
Dead gods damnit, she really was amazing. He was really hoping for Falene to nail Thellabell with a [Lightning Bolt], but when she fired it, Thellabell leaned out of the way and dodged it.
Dead. Gods.
Then Thellabell was charging, and Falene was backing up. She was speaking, casting low-Tier spells in a flurry.
“[Ice Spike], [Frost Mist], [Water Spray], [Fire Orb], [Flame Swathe], [Light Arrow], [Shade Dagger], [Mana Orb], [Stone Fist], [Light Arrow], [Magic Dart], [Lantern Light], [Mana Brick], [Ice Dagger], [Snowball], [Light Arrow], [Dark Arrow], [Fire Arrow], [Water Arrow], [Water Jet], [Fire Arrow], [Earth Arrow], [Wind Arrow], [Wind Orb], [Ice Spike], [Light Arrow], [Poison Arrow], [Acid Arrow], [Sand Arrow], [Glass Arrow], [Mana Arrow], [Fire Spray], [Water Jet], [Acid Splash], [Snowball], [Mudball], [Orb of Darkness], [Stone Fist], [Light Arrow], [Magic Dart], [Lantern Light], [Mana Brick], [Ice Dagger], [Snowball], [Wind Arrow], [Wind Orb], [Ice Spike], [Light Arrow], [Dark Arrow], [Fire Arrow], [Water Arrow], [Water Jet], [Fire Arrow], [Earth Arrow], [Snowball], [Mudball], [Orb of Darkness], [Magic Poke], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow], [Lightning Arrow]—”
She didn’t stop casting. Ylawes realized Falene hadn’t stopped casting spells when he saw Thellabell’s eager charge become a startled dance, weaving to cut or dodge the onslaught of spells, and his mouth was open.
She couldn’t cast this many spells so fast! Even for Falene, this was an overwhelming number, and only the [Battlemage]’s need to breathe kept the spells from literally filling the air. Dawil was blinking.
“Pointy?”
Falene kept loosing spells. She really liked her arrows, and the other spells she sometimes just threw in for variance’s sake. Ylawes saw crackling bolts of [Lightning Arrow] fill the air as she shot them, slowed to make it harder for Thellabell to dodge, into the air, and Nailren’s head turned.
“What was Falene’s class, Ylawes?”
Well, it was normally secret and embarrassed Falene, but if it had changed—Ylawes answered slowly.
“She’s lower-level than Dawil and I because that’s how it works with [Mages] usually. She’s—she was a Level 36 [Battlemage of Charity].”
A class befitting the half-Elf who had joined the Silver Swords and shared their ethos. Thellabell had stabilized against the onslaught of spells and was pushing in, no longer hacking them apart but just taking them on her shield and armor. Ylawes saw Falene’s lips curve upwards as she pointed her staff ahead and stopped chanting just long enough to say—
“[Combine Spell: Lightning Bolt].”
Then the chain of [Lightning Arrows] seemed to fuse, and he swore he saw a link of magic running between them as Thellabell’s eyes widened. The [Lightning Bolt] exploded through the air as Falene cast another simultaneously.
“Kaaz—!”
Somehow, the [Squire of Excellence] dodged the first [Lightning Bolt] and cut the second out of the air as she leapt at Falene. The [Battlemage] stepped back and spoke.
“[Combine Spell: Elemental Arrow Rain]. [Combine Spell: Water Geyser]! [Stone Dart].”
Two spells emerged from the Tier 1 spells she’d littered the air with. Magical arrows of all kinds, darting at Thellabell’s unguarded face as the [Squire] pivoted, ducking her head, slashing, jumping the water spout that froze, trying to entangle h—
The [Stone Dart] slashed across Thellabell’s cheek as she twisted her head to dodge a [Darkness Arrow], her sword extending to stab Falene in the chest. It ran into a triple-layer [Barrier] spell, and Ser Pavoriad and Ser Brindelhor’s swords which criss-crossed the blade and slammed it into the earth.
Falene Skystrall stood there as Thellabell recoiled, then felt at her cheek. A trickle of blood marred her brown skin, and then Ylawes saw her face darken into a full flush. Dame Rosenthine called out.
“First blood! Hold! Victory to Magus Skystrall! Squire, drop your blade! You have much to learn!”
She smiled as Falene swept her audience a bow, and the Gnolls began to cheer along with the Silver Swords. Ylawes clapped with Dawil as Falene stood there, and Thellabell lowered her sword, mouth open to protest before ducking her head in shame.
That was his half-Elf friend and [Mage]. Ylawes remembered why he had always loved her as Falene tossed her head back. A shame they were fellow adventurers. You didn’t date them, obviously.
Um, except for Pekona.
 
——
 
Pekona was wide-eyed as Falene accepted a towel to wipe the light sweat off her brows. Rosenthine was debriefing Thellabell, explaining to the young [Squire] exactly how overconfident she’d been and how many ways Falene had her.
But Ser Pavoriad was ecstatic.
“Younger sister! No, Magus Falene, what a splendid victory at your age! I can’t remember the last time Thellabell’s lost a battle, let alone to a non-[Knight]! I shall have to write home of you! Such talent at your tender young age?”
“Once again, Ser Pavoriad, I am more than fully grown! But thank you. I just wished to represent the team, and I am sure Dawil would have done likewise, but he might have hurt the young woman with his best.”
“Oh, aye, and we can’t have that, eh, Pointy? But you took it easy on the lass.”
Dawil was slapping Falene on the back, and she grimaced.
“Dawil, stop hitting me. Well, Captain.”
She turned to Ylawes and gave Pekona an arch smile as the [Sword Dancer] fidgeted. But Ylawes was purely amazed.
“Falene, your class. Did it really change?”
“Oh, yes. I suppose it wouldn’t hurt to share…”
Falene was dying to tell everyone, so she cleared her throat, then hesitated. She coughed, eyed Ylawes and Pekona, then murmured.
“It is, um, well, perhaps an odd class at Level 37. But given our adventures in the New Lands, it felt fitting. I am a [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance].”
A [Pursuant Battlemage of—] wait, what was that other part? Ylawes’ huge smile became hesitant, and Pekona’s eyes swivelled to him. Dawil had gone as still as a statue, and Falene fiddled with her staff.
“Aside from some very welcome Skills to manage my mana intake, I have gained [Combine Spell], a very powerful tool, as I’m sure you’ll agree. And, ah, my best Skill which allows me to cast spells at a level unprecedented.”
Everyone murmured and wanted to know what it was, but suddenly, Falene was keen to check on Thellabell and shake the [Squire]’s hand. And Dawil was now very interested in talking to Ser Brindelhor, and Ylawes and Pekona were stepping away for a chat…
The Gnolls really wanted to know, of course. But the rest of Falene’s team gave her peace.
 
——
 
“Hey, hey, Falene. What that Skill you got? We have to know.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear kept badgering Falene even after the duel, and she glared at them, pink-cheeked.
“Rasktooth, Infinitypear, I shared as much as I wanted to! Is decorum not a word in your lexicon?”
“Don’t know what either of them words mean, Falene!”
Rasktooth beamed at her, and Infinitypear waved a hand.
“I do not have a lexicon, Big Sister Falene, but I will obtain one if necessary with my funds.”
“Oh. Um. Well, then. Don’t call me that, Infinitypear.”
“But are you not a big sister to us Bronze-rank adventurers with your superior wisdom, beauty, and magic? You avenged Captain Ylawes’ honor!”
If Rasktooth was the somewhat cynical, at times annoying, scamp, Infinitypear was too honest, too trusting, and too endearing. Falene coughed.
“Well, this is all true…but it is embarrassing. My Skill, you know, can be used against me—”
“We will never tell, right, Brother Rasktooth? We swear on our team! Poke Duo’s vow!”
“Poke Duo’s vow! Please, Big Sis Falene?”
They begged her with huge eyes, and Falene glanced around the private tent and out at Ylawes, who was talking to Merish now the dueling drama was over. She did feel good taking that [Squire] down a peg, and, well…the class was a reward.
A reward for making peace with it all, realizing she had to move on. And that she had to support her fellow teammates, drat Pekona for being too innocent for her own good. Falene turned red, then sat down.
“Okay, but you must keep this silent. Alright?”
They promised again, and she told them.
“My class is indeed [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. An…amusing play on words I suspect given the lack of mana and the romance of adventuring inherent to—nevermind. Along with my other Skills, the best one aside from [Combine Spell] would be, um…[Heartbreak’s Compensation: Halfcost Magic (Tier 0-2)].”
They stared at her, open-mouthed. Then Rasktooth raised his hand.
“Wait, who broke your heart? We beat them up!”
Even Infinitypear had to nudge his brother. Falene turned so red and began to shush them, and—well—
She was in her tent with the drapes closed, but she’d forgotten it was a Gnoll tribe. Even with her voice lowered…
Every Gnoll in earshot was staring at her tent. Most began to hurry off to tell other people. And the rest went in search of something nice in their food stores for her. Because—um—
Wow.
 
——
 
Falene felt pretty proud of herself after her display of her recent class. Oh, it was embarrassing; she realized all the Gnolls had heard her admission to Poke Duo, because they kept coming over with cheese, dried meats, things for her to eat. Even a salad.
She was blushing and trying to explain her class wasn’t just a lovesick child’s class. It was an affirmation of a new point of view.
“No, you see, it’s pursuant that defines the class. I am in pursuit, seeking magic.”
“And love. One hopes you have it, yes? These things happen. Such a Skill. So…useful, but you must keep yourself fed, Miss half-Elf. You are far too thin, yes?”
A Gnoll who couldn’t have been older than her mid-thirties was trying to feed Falene, patting her on the shoulder. Falene, who was twice her age, was red-faced. And she blamed Ser Pavoriad for this; his lackadaisical attitude with her had led the Gnolls to thinking she was a child!
Actually, it was somewhat of a relief when the [Knight] in question came striding over.
“Mage Falene, sister. Might I have a word again about your sterling display of magic?”
Falene excused herself from the Plain’s Eye Gnolls and whirled to face him.
“Ser Pavoriad, thank you. If you call me ‘little sister’ one more time, I may try one of my new spells on you!”
He laughed ruefully and brushed at his hair. Then he bowed, rather formally, and looked shamefaced.
“Forgive me, Magus. I jest and play these pranks and go too far. In truth, I did think you needed a bit of reminding of your own youth, and you had that classic…what’s the expression?”
He snapped his fingers a few times.
“‘Tree branch up your own arse’ syndrome so endemic to our people.”
Falene gasped, and half the Gnolls who’d begun wandering off snorted. She colored.
“Ser Pavoriad!”
He was at once overwhelmingly high-level and confident, knightly, but also retiring and young for his role. A legend. She’d heard of him in Gaiil-Drome, seen him riding into the city to be feted before, but never thought to speak to him so long. Falene was over being tongue-tied after the fourth time he’d swung her around like a girl. But she didn’t know what to say to him.
He, though, seemed to know what to say to her, now. For the Knight of Forest’s Heart motioned.
“May we walk and speak, Magus? Candidly.”
She nodded, and they circuited the Gnolls’ camps, watching as more herding animals spread out to graze. Pavoriad sighed as he inhaled deeply. Falene caught a whiff of dung and breathed less deep, but the [Knight]’s chin rose, and he stretched his arms out, shrugging his beautiful armor up as he embraced this vista.
“We are such a curious, oft-hypocritical race, sister. I find myself humbling or teasing my own kind too often. Perhaps it is because for all we claim to love nature, we don’t really like animals, let alone herds. Gnolls have far more claim to being in touch with it. They eat meat and hunt, and who is to say we are better?”
“We cultivate great forests, Ser Pavoriad. One might argue we’re two sides of the same coin.”
Falene had no idea where he was going with this, but Pavoriad grimaced.
“Are we? Or are we stubbornly on one side? Half-Elves have teeth of meat and plant-eaters. But many of my peers claim we’re meant to live like rabbits. We call ourselves superior to other species.”
“I have never thought—”
“In private, of course. We live the longest. We have so much magic and accumulated knowledge. We are superior, just temporarily inconvenienced by the prolificness of Humans and other species.”
He cut her off, and she bit her tongue, because everything he was saying was true…it was just that no one of her age and her species had ever said it so directly. Pavoriad’s face, so kind and humorous, betrayed for a moment a true cynicism. But only when he spoke of his own kind. Then he turned to her and smiled like a [Hero].
“It’s what I saw upon you when we met, Falene. But you, sister—you’re not what I expected. I apologize. I saw only your demeanor when you’re not a fool from home, but a living, breathing adventuress. One who’d found and lost love, no less!”
She turned bright red.
“Ser Pavoriad, how did you—?”
He chuckled.
“I have ears, and Gnolls talk louder than they think. Forgive me. I don’t mean to pry. I’m approving.”
“I just—it wasn’t even a—I’m over it. It’s a class approving my new philosophy towards life!”
Oh, it still hurt. She could glance at Ylawes and Pekona and like Pekona and understand how it had come to this, but she averted her gaze. Pavoriad’s head bowed.
“I understand. I truly do. I just wished to tell you, sister—not to be ashamed. Too many haughty half-Elves go out for their one adventure amongst mortals and come back without ever bleeding their hearts out or becoming, well, entangled. Maybe it suits them, and I am glad when they come back at all for they have better perspectives than those who never venture from our villages. But you are one I’d wish to talk to more.”
Oh. Her conversation from yesterday with Dasha and Pekona hit Falene, but from an angle she’d never thought of before. She glanced up at Pavoriad—but of course if anyone was entangled, it was him! She stuttered.
“I—I confess, I did regard myself as aloof, Ser Pavoriad. Not superior—”
He raised one eyebrow.
“A Wistram half-Elf from Gaiil-Drome?”
She flushed.
“Oh, fine! A tiny bit superior in education, training, but my team is truly wonderful. We get along, Dawil, Ylawes, and I. This recent string of events has been unprecedented, but I am changing. I feel it in my bones.”
She touched her chest, and it felt like the mana in her was burning brighter. A resource that she could expend, but right now, she could have cast low-level spells nonstop until she ran out of breath. She burned. Not necessarily with a desire to go back to the New Lands, but to find that damn love of her life, to become someone new. The [Knight] smiled like someone watching a sapling growing into a World’s Tree.
“This is why I cannot ever retire or cede my seat in the Thousand Lances. I still feel that way. More, now the New Lands have risen! When I go back home and hang up my blades, then I’ll be old. We must race out, sister, and drag our people here to grow.”
He held out a hand, and she grasped it and smiled. This, then, was what she’d craved. Respect from another half-Elf, but as equals? It made her heart flutter.
“All this from a damn broken heart.”
He laughed at her, then put her in a headlock and ruffled her hair as she shouted in outrage, ignoring the Tier 1 spells she blasted on his armor to no effect.
“Little sister, you’ve still got some of that sap of haughtiness on you! Yes, from a broken heart! Yes to levelling in bed, yes to puking over the side of your saddle, passing out, and levelling! Yes to levelling on the floor of an inn after losing a fight. We’re not perfect! Or show me one of us who is!”
He was right. But she wanted some of that idealism, that perfection! Falene spluttered.
“All very well for you to say, you—you chunk of sculpted bark! You look like a hero right out of storybooks, and you chastise me for trying to aspire to that? And there are things to idealize amongst our own!”
Pavoriad snorted at that as he went skipping past cowpats. Nimbly, flowing like a breeze in the forests.
“If you’d ever been to the half-Elven villages, sister, you’d not call them so grand. True, they’re creatures of habit, but all the old monsters there have gone out into the world and come back. Ever heard of Ceria Springwalker, that half-Elf who’s come to prominence? The moment I heard her last name, I knew she’d be something if she lived. The Village of the Spring. I think it drives them crazy; it’s one of the more perfect villages in Erribathe, and it’s a nightmare.”
It was always Ceria. But Falene adjusted her spectacles and, for once, didn’t feel green with envy about the younger half-Elf. She peered at Pavoriad’s back, and something she had carried into the New Lands, her obsession, her goal that she had not shared with Ylawes or Dawil, sprang to her lips.
“I don’t mean other half-Elves like that, Ser Pavoriad. I know our eldest are made of quirks and not as perfect as they seem. I’ve met Archmage Feor and seen the man behind the myth. The same with Archmage Eldavin.”
The [Knight] turned around, losing his smile, even as he continued to walk backwards, avoiding cowpats.
“Ah, that fellow. He troubles me. Everyone recalls the name but no one, even other half-Elves, really knows him. He’s a ghost amongst our kind, and I’ve heard of others like that…suspicious. But he’s in Wistram, and I can do little there. I’m glad you don’t idolize him. Who else, then?”
“Sprigaena.”
For just a second, he faltered. Ser Pavoriad put his foot down in some fresh leavings and stared at Falene. Then he wiped his foot. Rubbed at one ear.
“…That name. I do not know it, yet I know it. It struck me.”
Falene shivered.
“I have heard it in my dreams. I have seen her face again and again, and though it was but stone…Ser Pavoriad, I have seen the face of Elves. I think—the last of Elves. She haunts me.”
“Do you mean the last Elf, the founder of Erribathe, one of the heralds of our race? Queen Sprithae? The name is so close, but yours…”
Now he was wide-eyed, blinking at her. Falene inhaled, exhaled, and the scent of dung and the New Lands became, for a moment, that of an inn. A statue in the mists. She met Pavoriad’s eyes.
“I found her statue in a garden, in an inn I have great fondness for, Ser Pavoriad. But I was told that her story was not one I should hear, but seek out. The story of our ancestor, whom I was told was called Sprigaena. Sprigaena of the Fall. The Last Traitor. The…Traitor of Elves.”
Strange how she revelled in giving one of the Thousand Lances that same, wide-eyed moment of disbelief and wonder so normalized to her in the inn. How she envied that chill he must feel, the tingling and heart beating with excitement. But then, she felt it too. Ser Pavoriad glanced around, then stepped forwards.
“And where might one find such…information, sister?”
She shrugged.
“I don’t know. Which is why I have not pursued it. And I believed this knowledge would potentially endanger the one who has it. She is…often pursued by those who consider her too dangerous. I did not want to add my people to that list. But that name itself is a clue. Sprithae is the name we hold in antiquity. An assumed name? Or perhaps one that covers up the true personage? If I had access to the Tree Libraries of Gaiil-Drome—”
He rubbed at his clean-shaven chin, and she forgot he was more than a bluff [Knight], because Pavoriad’s eyes were focused.
“I see. It’s the [Innkeeper] again. The same woman who slew Erribathe’s [Prince of Men] knows the Face of Elves? Cordially, sister, I regard that woman as a threat, and I harbor no love for someone who would take Greydath of Blades’ hand. He has set the Thousand Lances to alarm. If anything would have us crusade from Terandria by the hundreds, it would be him.”
She shivered at that bold proclamation, but Pavoriad went on, thinking out loud.
“But that name! I see I must ask twice, then, sister, about this inn and where you believe honor lies.”
She nodded, now summoning all her tact and diplomacy.
“I shall, Ser Pavoriad, to convince you that you are at least no enemy. But again, if you had someone you trusted to the utmost in Gaiil-Drome? Someone who would take on this request for information without making it—political?”
He gazed at her, then snapped his fingers softly.
“Sister. I have some, but I have a thought. This is bigger than you or I. With respect, I see why you shelter it. The hunt for this could obsess our people and lead to bitter entanglement, and we are an obsessive people at times. It requires good, practical half-Elves of honor and worldliness. High levels, too, with contacts among our various peoples.”
She sighed. She’d come to the same conclusion, and she hadn’t trusted her Wistram faction with it. She knew Teura, Feor, and…no. The only person she did trust was Ceria, and wasn’t that dire? Also, Ceria really didn’t care about their heritage in the same way.
“I know. Who, then? Unless—”
She had a thought, and Pavoriad’s eyes suddenly sparkled with mirth and an idea.
“It is hard to find so many half-Elves with their heads opened up. But as it happens, there might be a colony of them learning the lessons you and I have learned, eh? It should be delivered in person, this news. A project made of it. What if we had a little race?”
He bent over, grinning, and tapped her on the nose. She blinked up at him.
“A what?”
“First one to the western coast wins a drink. I shall meet you there, fates willing. If not, one of us shall find others of good cheer and ask for help. A quest for this New Land and age! Let us have a way to identify each other. How about a codephase? ‘Stick up the ass’.”
She blinked at him, but his voice was alight with mirth, and his eyes were serious. Falene glanced around and realized no one could hear them amidst the mooing cows, far from the camp. She smiled. What a canny [Knight].
“It’s just a project, Ser Pavoriad. It may lead to nothing at all.”
To that, he just grinned at her, knowing she was lying.
“We’re half-Elves, sister. We love meaningless, time-consuming projects.”
Like that, she had a goal again. The half-Elf returned to her company in a bit. If her Captain pursued the dream of a Silver Dragon, she followed a name and a statue’s face captured in grief and guilt. But it was just a quest. First and foremost, she was a Silver Sword. And Falene wondered…if Dawil had something he longed for too.
 
——
 
Knights were so amusing. They ran around doing self-important things, so loud and noisy and almost cartoonish, except for the fact that these [Knights] could back up all their bark.
They belonged to a different world. One that Nailren wasn’t sure he wanted to visit, but like the New Lands, it fascinated his weary, cynical heart.
For he was a Gnoll of the plains and City Gnoll combined. An adventurer at times, a Gnoll who went among the Drakes, but whose heart was always with the tribes. He felt like a small piece on a weary, bitter old board with groove marks gashed in the wood, disfigured pieces, gouging at his opponents—and there were so many.
Manus’ spears which came at you straight, but ran through everything. Salazsar’s endless gold stockpiles, their overpriced elites, and blades in the dark. Oteslia’s fairweather friendship—traitors on the other side, sometimes, who growled at you. Smaller Drake cities that each had their own agenda, ‘small’, but who could wipe out a tribe in the night.
And who would be there to stop it or weep for them?
I have to get out of here. The [Clandestine Chieftain] realized it was the Plain’s Eye tribe that was doing this to him. He was scratching at his fur so much it seemed like he had fleas.
This tribe…the Gnoll surveyed the white Gnolls working, laughing, and talking, but with that shell-shocked air to them, uncertain of their place in the world. Nailren had always known them as…
 
The bright eyes of their tribe embroidered on their clothing, walking proudly, trading with the six Walled Cities, ever-vigilant, ever-alert. 
If there was one tribe who checked the Walled Cities, it was theirs. Plain’s Eye. We are watching you, Drakes. The one tribe who never sent for him. On the contrary, sometimes their people met him on the job. Hawkarrow wasn’t wary of Plain’s Eye as potential rivals, but more of Xherw’s influence. There was a rumor he might be looking to expand Plain’s Eye again, in which case, it wouldn’t be another of the great tribes of Izril, but the great tribe.
But why did you do that and not just spin off another tribe? You did that if you wanted a nation, not a tribe. Nailren wasn’t against the idea of that; the Gnollish people needed unity, something the Drakes had more of at times for all their squabbling. But Xherw…
He just had no read on the Chieftain. Nor what followed the Chieftain around. It was not just his aura. It was something else. But whenever he saw Plain’s Eye Gnolls passing, armed and walking without fear of angering Drakes, confident in their tribe, he thought—
If only the tribes were like that. If only—
 
Nailren blinked, and the Gnolls around him replaced the ones from his memory. Then he realized those trade caravans, Plain’s Eye’s widespread presence, were gone. The sheer number of Gnolls here was the tribe. It appeared impressive, but they were here, not making money across Izril. This was a desperate push. Consolidate strength and go to the one place you might be able to start again.
He saw no Gnolls armed with artifacts bought from Drakes. Nor smelled dyes, velvets, or the spices from other continents he was used to. [Ranchers] and [Herders] predominated, not [Jewelers], [Traders]—Gnolls forced into the most needful classes. Nailren felt ghostly fingers on his shoulder. A questioning touch. He spoke to her and himself.
“A great tribe of Izril has fallen. They were monstrous and led by one who sold out his own kind in the name of protecting us. But they were still a great spear in the wall between us and Drakes. With them gone, I fear for the future. The Walled Cities will return. They’ve only stopped because everyone’s watching them. Some of them would turn every last one of us to pelts on a wall if given the chance.”
Maybe not modern Drakes like Wall Lord Ilvriss, but Nailren knew all the old names, the real bastards that if he ever had a shot at—he might take. Most were dead.
Chaldion hadn’t even been that bad. Chaldion, the dread Cyclops of Pallass, just pushed Drakes forwards and held off if it wasn’t worth the cost. But some Drakes were personal. They were supposed to be dead.
Wall Lord Eschowar. Why couldn’t they just die in their sleep? Nailren was so preoccupied with his dark thoughts overtaking the joy of the New Lands that he didn’t hear the other Gnoll coming up behind him. Then Nailren shifted, and a hidden flat-dagger strapped to one forearm was in his paw—
He halted when his peripheral vision revealed Chieftain Merish. Nailren instantly let go of the blade, but he knew the Chieftain had noticed it. However, Merish just grinned politely.
“Plain’s Eye has fallen indeed, Adventurer Nailren.”
“I’m retired. I apologize for speaking out of turn, Chieftain. You’ve done splendidly.”
Nailren flushed at his unusual rudeness, but Merish just tilted his head.
“Walk with me? I have to make sure the herds aren’t coming down with sickness. The long march and New Lands. There are no pests we could see that give them illness, but predators?”
“Oh, there are some leech-creatures that you’ll have to watch for.”
Nailren’s mind raced ahead to the idea of new plagues that might wipe out herds like these. Disastrous. The one advantage the Gnolls had was these herds, which were the right call, but one pack of Wyverns or illness or parasites spreading the same and…
Merish led him along a herd of sheep as Gnolls diligently checked under wool, patting the excited sheep who were munching on the yellow grass with evident delight. Turning hooves over, and he commented as they walked.
“I have sent eighteen groups to the New Lands with smaller herds, and none have reported sickness or illness from the climate. Part of the reason we stop here and spread out is to avoid the risk of losing more than one herd, yes? Mostly, though, we listen to the animals. Gaarh Marsh and Wild Wastes have generously lent some [Beast Tamers] and [Herd Tenders]. See.”
A Gnoll with Wild Wastes markings on her fur was walking through the sheep. She was growling.
“Who’s hurt? No, no pets. Who’s hurt? No, I don’t care if you twisted your little hoof. You’re not Sariant Lambs. If anyone’s sick, get over here, yes?”
Nailren exhaled, feeling foolish.
“Talk to the animals, of course. You’ve thought about this move, Chieftain.”
“You’d be surprised how many Drakes don’t have anyone who does. If you had any thoughts, Chieftain Nailren, I would gladly take them.”
A side-eye from Merish as Nailren slowed, and the ghostly hand seemed to jump. His unseen listener must be able to hear Merish so long as he had the spoon on his chest. Nailren murmured back as he saw Cullous running around with some shears, grooming sheep ready for it. They actually lined up, baahing. Clever animals. They’d run to Gnolls for help. Yes, they might do well here.
“I’m no Chieftain as you are, Chieftain Merish. Just Nailren. I’ve put it all behind me. As for advice? I’d have kids like Cullous pulling night-duty. The little walking leeches—I don’t know if the Adventurer’s Guild has classified them—they’re not much of a threat. Slap them with a stone from a sling and they back up. Your real threat will be the Landsharks. And…complications from other folk, I think.”
Merish noted Nailren touching the spoon at his neck and rubbed at his chin.
“Hrr. People I know. It makes me miss Rhir.”
“Truly? After 5th Wall? I apologize, that’s crass—”
For a second Merish flinched. And if Nailren had thought he had Warsights, it was nothing to the way the Gnoll just…vanished. Vanished, and a second version of him was somewhere else, staring upwards at a terrible monster. Friends and comrades dying around him—
The Gnoll blinked and smiled. As if nothing had happened. He turned to Nailren, forcing a chuckle with effort.
“No, no. It is fair, absolutely. It was the comrades I missed.”
Wordlessly, Nailren put out a hand and grasped Merish’s arm.
“I apologize, Chieftain.”
Merish accepted his apology by returning the arm-clasp. He turned.
“I was needed here. But there was something of Rhir I missed in Izril, Nailren. A sense that we were all on the same side! Coming back to Zeres and getting shoved into a line while Drakes disembarked first—”
“Ah, they do that in Zeres? Second-class citizens?”
Nailren pulled a face, and Merish shrugged.
“Just for those entering and exiting. Drakes have one line, everyone else has another. It reminded me, ‘ah, yes, I’m home’. Then the Meeting of Tribes…”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“In Rhir, once we got to know each other, it was every species getting along as best we could. Against the Demons. Here? How often have you needed to use that wrist-dagger? It’s very well-made. I’ve never seen one on another Gnoll that hides against the fur.”
Nailren flicked it out and handed it to Merish, who whistled at the very flat blade. You had to work the scabbard into your fur and even shave your fur a bit so it didn’t show up.
“Not once in the New Lands. Force of habit. But it is a concern. Landsharks first. You can tell they’re there as they burrow around. Anyone with [Tremorsense] could alert you. I know it’s rare, but there’s a kind of totem that [Shamans] can make. They use it in areas where rock slides are common. Ask Gaarh Marsh or a mountainous tribe.”
Merish’s ears perked up, and he motioned to a Gnoll who’d been shadowing them respectfully. Shaman Frivet approached and listened, committing the details to memory.
“I had no notion. Say a pack is coming, how might we repel them?”
Nailren chewed on his lip.
“Ideally, you don’t. Fighting a pack off is like fighting Wyverns off.”
“Ah, a bad idea?”
“They’re too big, too tough, and they hunt in groups of six to eighteen. Better to put out bait. Fresh blood and meat tied to a tall pole. That’s how my group did it. A herd might have them rushing in even with bait…just keep your scouts active. Hunt them first.”
“Sounds like at least eighty Gnolls, then. Heavy bows and bait. They pop out, shoot them, hack up any who survive. Would they fall on each other?”
“I don’t know. I wish I’d hunted some. But yes, that’s how I’d do it.”
Merish nodded.
“Vhra will be happy. She’s been antsy. Frivet, have her lead a hunting party. Tell her I’d like to eat shark. Though, having had it at sea, it’s not all that, yes? I prefer fatty tuna.”
Speaking to Chieftain Merish was actually quite enjoyable. He might not have been trained for it, but there was a confidence and easy leadership he had that Nailren appreciated. He might do well here. Nailren cleared his throat and took them away from the herd. Frivet slowed, and Merish tilted his head. He raised a paw to motion the [Shaman] away, but Nailren shook his head.
“This isn’t a secret that will last long. More…I do not know if it is entirely widespread. If it is, it changes as much as the salted land or mana. I assure you, we’re safe, but I’d like a test. Er, friend?”
He touched the spoon, and there was no response as Frivet and Merish eyed each other. Nailren sighed.
“I should have come up with a name for…Spoony? Can you test Frivet? He’s the [Shaman], the one with magic. If he hasn’t sensed you, that’s sign enough.”
Well, she didn’t like that. He got a flick to the fur on his head, then Frivet shouted and leapt a full foot in the air; the ghost had grabbed his tail and tweaked it.
“Rude.”
Nailren commented and got a distinctly pleased-sounding giggle in one ear. Merish’s fur had risen, and his axes were in his hands. He put them back in their scabbards as his shamanic paint glowed. Eying Nailren.
“I thought my war paint detected some odd magic about you, but I believed it was just an artifact—what is that, Nailren?”
“Ghosts. Be careful whom you kill. Or what you take. I wondered if Shaman Frivet had heard—I reached out to the Meeting of Tribes.”
“They do not, ah, always communicate with us openly. Did—did you say ghosts?”
Nailren introduced his ghost-friend whose name he didn’t know—she’d been the most far-gone and never whispered her name for him to bury her. The only ghost of the four spirits who’d wanted to come with him instead of moving on.
Merish and Frivet were wide-eyed, and Merish rubbed at his neck.
“This is incredible. Old legends come back. But why here? I can think of so many ghosts. Comrades from Rhir. I would have welcomed them in my guilt—why here?”
“Mana-drain? Some Relic-class item buried in the New Lands? The upheaval from the ghosts that appeared when the Seamwalker incident began? Who can say, Chieftain. Personally, I almost blame Erin, but I think this isn’t her fault.”
“Who?”
Merish might have some contact with Mrsha, but he did not understand the inn. He grinned as if thinking Nailren were making a joke, and his eyes flicked to Frivet, the spoon. Then he sighed.
“It is a lot of complications, but I thank you greatly for your knowledge, Nailren. I ask you this because Frivet tells me you are quite capable—will you stay or work with us? We are in dire need of high-level Gnolls. Those who were not killed at the Meeting of Tribes left, and those who remain are like Vhra.”
Not as loyal as you wanted, or shaken to their core. Nailren hesitated a moment, but there was no real choice.
“No offense, Chieftain Merish, but I left this part of my life behind. I’ll be happy to come back and share what I can, but I am no longer working for the tribes. I’m just another explorer of the New Lands.”
“One might say this is when you are needed most of all, Chieftain of Fletchsing.”
Frivet put in pointedly, and Nailren didn’t bristle at the [Shaman] and his staff with its carved eye, his mantle with swirling eyes decorated on the back. He just replied as Merish growled at the [Shaman].
“Trust is a commodity even the tribes need to earn, Shaman. I put some trust in Chieftain Xherw. Look where that has led us. Let us be friends and a people instead, hmm?”
“And earn the trust we have so manifestly lost. Indeed.”
Nailren’s reply had clearly shaken Frivet, but Merish got it. Merish offered a paw, and Nailren clasped it and felt guilty, but he could not be everywhere. He was just one Gnoll, and the New Lands…they called to him.
“I think the Silver Swords might be heading out, and I am a bit invested in how they’re going to do with this Merchant’s Guild business. Might I prevail on your tribe for a few items before I go? I have coin, and if you had a way to contact the Merchant’s Guild, I believe I have quite ample funds.”
“We do not, but take what you need. Do you require services as well as goods?”
“I could use salt, mostly. Oil, a few more pieces for arrows and the like—glue is going to be another essential, too. But have you any [Woodworkers] who could spare a few hours to rough out a carving? I have an odd project for them.”
Merish and Frivet were only too happy to call for someone to direct Nailren about as they returned to work. It turned out to be Viri, Merish’s friend, and the Lizardman bounded along, badgering Nailren for stories and chattering. He knew most Gnolls, and they seemed to like him more than Merish. The one-legged Lizardman took Nailren to a Gnoll only too happy to find a piece of wood and knife and carve out a funny project.
“You don’t want it stained, friend? Or at least let me give it a bit of polishing. I could make it three times as large.”
“It’s got to move, and I don’t have a bag of holding, [Carpenter]. Can you cut a groove so I can take it apart, here? Thin as you can without making the pieces fragile.”
The Gnoll grunted as pieces of wood flew.
“I have [Sturdy Creation], but I know another Gnoll who can add [Miter Cut] to this and make my life easier. Viri, go find Yorrei, if he’s not headed out with his clan! And I have a pot of a very quick-drying varnish…I cannot let a friend go without a bit of class.”
“Oh, very well. But can you dye it black? The letter in white? Apparently, it’s traditional.”
The Gnoll [Carpenter] huffed and rolled his eyes as Viri went bouncing off.
“Black and white? What are we, [Dark Mages] sitting in palaces eating grapes with our [Overlord] or something? Apologies, but it sounds a bit childish. Or like those odd Drakes with the black scale dye. Have you heard of them? [Goths]. Silliest thing I’ve seen, and even the Drakes thought so…”
“Hrr. I don’t know, [Carpenter]. It does seem a bit silly to me, too, but there’s a point in respecting how it should be. We’re making a ‘Ouija Board’. A friend told me of it, and it might help with communication.”
“What, for those who can’t speak? Ah, so that’s the point of the little marker thing. But you could use a finger.”
Nailren didn’t say who he was thinking of who couldn’t speak, and he wondered if this wooden creation would be of any use. His ghost-friend didn’t seem that able to move objects now that she wasn’t possessed by that murderous rage. She could poke or prod, but he got the feeling she got ‘tired’ after one action. A full conversation seemed hard, but maybe the light piece of wood would let her talk?
They’d see. He was also asking about ample parchment and ink, taking full advantage of Plain’s Eye hospitality. Viri promised to get him all of what he needed, so Nailren decided this was a good time to check in on the Silver Swords.
They’d finished their dueling and breakfast, and he strolled back over just in time to hear what was going on. Which wasn’t good news, to judge from how Ylawes, Dawil, and the rest of his group was gathered around Falene and a little scrying orb she’d temporarily enchanted.
“—who she is. I think she was attacked when our conversation ended. I swear I saw…nevermind. The point is that the Merchant’s Guild is going to pursue this, Ylawes, and it’s not a matter of gold. They want to put you in a servitude contract—I had to search them up, and they’re in our records. Old, old contracts. But dangerous. If they get you in one, I don’t know if you could cut your way out.”
“They’re going to blame us for the Consortium’s deaths? We testified, Qwera!”
Ylawes’ face was pinched and drawn, and Nailren felt for the man. He was a good fellow who’d just run into laws and procedure and the power of a huge entity. Nailren could have told him how they’d act, but Ylawes was floored. Another woman took over, and he saw purple hair.
Ah, Ysara Byres. Turnscale, friendly to Gnolls, quality silver-themed weaponry. A good ally to have especially if she and the Golden Gnoll were partnered. If they worked with Plain’s Eye, they could all benefit. If he told Merish— 
He shook himself.
Dead gods, I’ve got to get back to exploring. Ysara’s voice was strained.
“Ylawes, I’m sorry. I argued myself hoarse, but it’s this lady from Roshal. Slave Lady Andra. Maybe something happened to her, but—the Merchant’s Guild in the north is backing its members. Even if she weren’t in the picture, they want someone to blame, and it’s easier to blame you than to admit their members were that incompetent.”
“I am going to lodge a complaint with Wistram. The Adventurer’s Guild will have something to say about this! If they think we’re without allies…”
Falene snapped. Ylawes just stood there, face pained. He fumbled with a piece of parchment in one hand.
“Um, Father seems to think they have valid cause. His representative at the Merchant’s Guild was unable to help us. He’s concerned about the situation.”
Ysara snapped back testily.
“Father is busy pursuing his damn war and profiting from that, Ylawes. So much for telling me to be the ethical merchant—I’m sorry. This isn’t helping. We’ll put pressure on the Merchant’s Guild, but you cannot come back via Goisedall. Not you, not the [Farmers] or [Miners] or anyone else in the expedition. They’ll have you on lists for [Bounty Hunters] or the Watch to pick up.”
“Bounty hunters. For us?”
Farmer Petia stood there with a half-smile on her face, which turned bitter at once. Homle was scrunching a worn hat up, face white. Ylawes turned to them, then spoke.
“This is ridiculous, Ysara. We’re adventurers, but Petia and Homle’s people did nothing wrong! Tell them—”
“We’re trying, Ylawes. Truly.”
They all went silent, and it was Qwera who took over. The Golden Gnoll was as sharp and collected as Nailren had heard of her.
“This isn’t hopeless, Silver Swords. There’s a way out of this. What it requires is time and the right people. What you need to do is to keep clear of being caught. Keep in the New Lands; no one can [Scry] you easily there with the mana disruption, and it’s the one place the Merchant’s Guild isn’t. Even if you fled the continent, they’ve got power everywhere. Dead gods, your Antinium and Goblin are probably the safest of the lot; no one can tell one from another.”
“Hey! We have been racismed, Brother!”
“It is my fifth—no, sixth time. If I get to ten, Dawil has promised to buy me a snack.”
Infinitypear and Rasktooth high-fived. Qwera’s scowling face turned into a snort.
“Funny. Don’t make me like you, little brats. Listen. The solution here is to get the Merchant’s Guild to change its mind. To prove Anlam’s a little weasel with all the sense of a [Drunkard] in an Alchemist’s shop filled with [Potions of Blast]. There’s a way to do that. While you’re in the New Lands, Ysara and I are going to prevail on our contacts and get you someone who can speak to the Merchant’s Guild people. Do all the little wordplay and footplay and foreplay they want that even we can’t do.”
“Dead gods, Merchant Qwera, I just ate. There’s a class for this?”
Dawil was stroking his beard and not really smiling, but Ysara took over.
“Ylawes, you might be familiar with them. Qwera means [Advocates].”
“Oh…the kind the Five Families have? That get you out of Watch trouble?”
Ylawes pulled a face, but his sister nodded.
“Exactly. We get a good one and they can reverse this or cause a stink big enough to make the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters pay attention. We’ll talk to other [Merchants]—all the ones at the meeting were not happy about being overruled. And I hate to use this card, but the nobility will also object to one of our own being pressured like this. We’ll rally support. Just stay out of trouble until we get this sorted, alright?”
Easier said than done. The Silver Swords stood there as Nailren chewed on some fresh jerky, and he saw how this was going to go. They had nowhere to go but back into the New Lands, and…
They were not ready. All of them were malnourished, even if they had started recovering these last few days. They were down on gear, demoralized he just bet, and they didn’t have any supplies. However, Ylawes just took a breath.
“It seems we have no choice. Silver Swords, prepare to strike camp. I am going to prevail on Chieftain Merish to see if Farmer Petia and Homle’s people can stay here to work. But the rest of us…we will discuss finances and our share of loot from our last expedition and move out today. Falene, Dawil, let’s pool coins and see what we can buy.”
Nailren decided this was his moment to step in. He waved a paw as the Silver Swords began to murmur. He saw some of the colonists weeping, and he coughed.
“Ylawes, I can put in a word with Chieftain Merish if it helps. I have credit with the Merchant’s Guild—they can get it from Goisedall or a Drake city, and Lyonette can pay me back.”
Ylawes turned gratefully to Nailren.
“We owe you greatly already, Nailren—”
“Think nothing of it. I don’t like the Merchant’s Guild, and meeting Plain’s Eye was fortuitous. I’m moving into the New Lands today. If you’d like to join me, I’d not mind the company…but I’m on a new mission.”
Everyone turned to him, and Ylawes blinked.
“A job?”
“Nothing so fancy. Rather, I thought it was high-time someone came up with a map of the region. Doubtless every group is going to be doing the same, but I have an actual lay of the land. I’m no [Cartographer], but I’ll be charting the area forwards.”
If he could find any ruins, notable areas of interest, or actual settlements, it’d be worth a lot to everyone, especially because communication was so hard. It was part wanting to help Plain’s Eye, part stroking his ego and padding his coin pouch. But Nailren did fancy he had a chance to do some good mapping.
“It sounds like an adventure. But—we have to find work. And we’ll slow you down, Nailren.”
“I don’t mind riding with your group for a few days if it helps, but as you decide, Ylawes. Just let me know if you need directions.”
They conferred for a bit as Ylawes asked where they might go, and Nailren got the parchment from Viri and began his first rough of a map.
“I can only tell you where I’ve been and where you’ve been. So north to the hills, and I’m south…most would have gone straight west. If you want to find more people, that’s where you need to be. I’m headed that way too.”
“Might be best to keep away from too many people if the Merchant’s Guild has eyes on us.”
Dawil rumbled, and Ylawes pulled at his hair, exasperated.
“I just cannot believe this! I’m going to write another [Message] to a [Merchant] I know, Falene. How far would they pursue us?”
“After Goisedall? They put an entire city on you, Ylawes. I’d not underestimate them.”
The [Knight] glanced at Nailren and nodded, but he was still a man in shiny-enough armor. Nailren did feel bad for him.
Bad enough to delay leaving for two more hours while he walked around Plain’s Eye’s camp. Gnolls were heading off to establish other camps, and settlers from Goisedall were driving towards them with questions, looking to buy or sell, and even Drakes from the other cities had ridden out to ask why the Gnolls were here and to trade for much-needed food.
Gold and business already, and trouble no doubt—he nodded at the [Warriors] who were keeping a sharp eye out for all the newcomers. But they only looked out for Gnolls. Nailren sighed to himself as he checked his bow, shortsword, and other little weapons he was so familiar with.
I’d love a better bow with a permanent enchantment or anything alchemical or magic that’d last in the New Lands. Damn, if the Silver Swords had a jar of acid, I’d be dumping gold in their hands—not that they could use it.
Who knew Erin was so right about acid jars? Oh well. He strung his bow as he put one tip into the dirt, grunting as he slid the string across the limbs of the bow with a practiced motion. Spare bowstrings, right. Good I stayed. Nailren selected an arrow from his quiver as Gnolls turned and gave him an odd look. He pulled back and loosed.
 
——
 
Up and down.
Up and down. Ylawes felt like someone had been lifting him up with things like the feeling of Pekona’s lips on his, the Thousand Lances, Plain’s Eye—
Then dropping him off a cliff with rocks tied around his feet. The Merchant’s Guild, the Goblin King, Falene’s class in a sense—
His soul felt bruised. He felt tired.
They were going back into the New Lands. No break, no rest. The realization had everyone visibly dismayed, except for Rasktooth, Infinitypear, and oddly, Falene. She was striding around, giving orders, embracing her new class.
“I want all the supplies we can buy on Nailren’s credit, Anith. No scrimping. Don’t get more than we can carry, but everything we were missing on the trip. Oil for armor, salt, I heard Nailren say, good travelling gear since we lost our bags of holding. Backpacks—and clothing! I’ll see to clothing.”
“You’re spirited, Pointy. I feel like an Ogre just shat in my breakfast bowl. Dead gods, the Merchant’s Guild!”
Even Dawil was ill-tempered as he threw a rock at the ground hard enough to leave it buried half a foot deep. That made Ylawes feel better, but Falene just snarked back.
“Listen…Shorty. Dawil. Trees, why is it so hard to come up with nicknames that don’t sound racist? Stop writing that down, Rasktooth, that was accidental. We may have been dealt a poor hand, but we must keep moving. Besides, it’s in my class. [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. I am an adventurer! Romance and magic; my class is adapting for the New Lands. We are levelling.”
Dawil’s head rose a bit.
“Aye, we are. I reckon I’m due for a class consolidation too. Any day now. I’ll take, uh, [Mountainborn] or maybe [Stoneguard]. Y’know, I’ve always fancied [Stalwart]. Very classic, Dwarfish classes. Right, let’s get to it. I’ll get the horses. You lot always get ones too tall for me if I don’t. We’ll owe Nailren a barrel of gold, but I do think Lyonette can cover for us.”
They were all moving, and Ylawes muttered about talking to Merish. Dawil and Falene shot him a glance, and Pekona hurried after Ylawes.
“You alright, C—Ylawes?”
“I am, Pekona. Just disheartened.”
“It seems…unfair. I don’t know how things work here. Only my home, but it was unfair, wasn’t it?”
“Yes. Very. Is it not like that in Drath?”
She shrugged.
“It seems very…close. We have Guilds in Drath too. Just not the ones like yours. The Beggar’s Guild, the Dark Guilds—but [Merchants] are [Merchants]. And plenty of sects could do something that wrong.”
Just like always, she distracted him with her tales of a land he had never envisioned. Ylawes peered at her.
“…The Beggar’s Guild? I can see that, but what’s a ‘Dark Guild’?”
“Oh, you know. The normal ones. The Hands of Blood, or maybe a sect that practices dark arts.”
“That sounds entirely evil! And you let them have a Guild?”
“Well…yes. Using dark cultivator arts is, um, bad. Like draining someone’s soul out with your fist or something. But everyone’s trying to reach a higher level.”
“But if you do it by nefarious means—”
“Then you’re a Named-rank adventurer, yes. Just like in Drath.”
He opened his mouth as she beamed at him and nodded. He was trying to explain that, no, that wasn’t what he meant, when they ran into Merish. The Gnoll was besieged by people who wanted his time, but he found some for Ylawes.
“Ah, Captain. I heard you had bad news, no? We have talked to the Merchant’s Guild in Goisedall, but they claim it is all above them. My tribe would like to help you if the Drakes will not.”
“Thank you, Chieftain Merish. We are buying what we can, and Captain Nailren is standing guarantee for us—we have the gold! But if I may—would your tribe consider hiring good [Miners] and [Farmers]?”
Merish tugged on the bottom of one lip, frowning.
“Can you…vouch for them, Captain Ylawes? That they are both hardworking and trustworthy?”
Ylawes thought, honestly, of Homle and Petia’s people as Merish eyed him.
“I can. They’ve had plenty of time to run off or not pull their weight, especially given how poorly things went. But none of them have, and they kept up with us with barely any complaints.”
“Hm. Good enough. I cannot promise much gold, but if they stay here, we’ll put them with a clan, and we do plan on doing some farming. Captain Nailren says it is possible.”
“Wh—really?”
Ylawes and Pekona were incredulous, and Merish’s brows rose.
“He didn’t tell you? There are these odd ‘Freshwater Gardens’, as he calls them, growing in the New Lands. Divots where freshwater used to exist, or so he thinks. That aside, we can also just haul soil from Izril since we are close enough. As for [Miners], Master Homle’s knowledge would be welcome. I forgot to ask. When you found those odd pieces of ore, you said they were not normal, yes?”
Ylawes told Merish all he recalled as some Gnolls with [Miner] classes came over, and Homle and Petia gave what knowledge they had. Both man and woman were pale, but Petia managed a smile.
“Work for the Gnolls might be better than Goisedall, given how crowded and expensive it was. We can manage here, Captain Byres.”
“You’re sure? I’d like to leave you some gold, either way—”
“There’s no cause for that, sir. You got us out of trouble when you didn’t have to. Let’s not go giving favors my lads can’t repay.”
Homle and Petia didn’t look happy. But they were persevering as they asked Merish what they might do to make themselves useful, and Ylawes took inspiration from them. If they were pulling themselves up by their bootstraps, he had to shape up.
Funny. He’d always thought he was good at pulling himself up from his bootstraps, but they felt damn heavy today. The [Knight] wanted to say goodbye to the Thousand Lances, but they beat him to it.
“Ser Byres! I am told you have some trouble with the Merchant’s Guild? Might I ask what it is? We are heading into the New Lands again. It is high time we explored, now we understand what the border looks like. Myself, I want to ride until I hit the sea on the western coast, but Ser Pavoriad and Lord Volede are more practically minded. And Ser Brindelhor wishes to explore the first ruin we come across.”
Dame Rosenthine herself was mounted, and they were ready to go. It embarrassed Ylawes to relate his account of his woes, but all the Thousand Lances frowned when they heard his story.
“And you swear your account is true? Then by my honor, it sounds like this Merchant’s Guild is as underhanded in Izril as it is back home! We shall write back to our order at once! Kaaz will hear of this!”
Ser Brindelhor barked, and Ylawes was glad the man smiled and nodded at him. Lord Volede was far more cautious, which worried Ylawes.
“The Merchant’s Guild is obstinate and powerful. We shall indeed prevail, but your friend seems to understand its politics best. Dame Rosenthine, shall I draft a missive?”
“Do so. I shall remember this slight against your honor, Ser Byres. I would offer assistance, but it seems your team has provisions enough. And if your colonists are cared for…? Then I must simply salute you and remind us all that valor and honor triumph in the end.”
Dame Rosenthine drew her sword and saluted him, and he fumbled his sword out to copy the gesture. The Thousand Lances saluted him, and then they whirled their horses.
“To the New Lands! Silver Swords, Plain’s Eye Gnolls, may we meet again!”
—And then they were gone. Riding so fast across the ground that Ylawes wondered what Skills they had, or if their horses had enchanted horseshoes. They left the world more mundane behind them. He tried to cling to the image of them going, but dead gods—
Every time his spirits rose, someone kicked his knees out. For instance, he was trooping back to Falene and Dawil who had horses, supplies, and were appearing ready to go.
“I think we could ride out with Nailren after all. What do you say?”
Larr was showing the others how to pack things into the Gnolls’ sturdy hide travel bags on the horses when someone coughed.
“About that, Captain Byres. I’m afraid you might have a bit of trouble. Chieftain Merish would like to see you right now. Um, there’s been a shooting.”
Viri looked very apologetic as he pog-jumped over. Ylawes felt that familiar sinking feeling, and he heard howls of alarm and a distant scream of someone in pain. Viri clarified.
“In the butt.”
Rasktooth tsked.
“Oh, the worst place to be shot. No, wait, first the balls, then brain, then eyes, then…okay, ninth worst place.”
 
——
 
When Ylawes rushed over, he saw a strange sight. Namely, that of a Drake lying on the ground, clawing at an arrow sticking out of one asscheek, and a line of men and women being cut loose from…ropes?
The colonists. Farmer Petia and Homle were horrified, and the perpetrator of both butt-shot and savior of the colonists was standing there sighing.
Captain Nailren. He turned from talking to Vhra and Merish.
“Oh, Ylawes. I feared this might happen. The Merchant’s Guild is already on the move. [Bounty Hunter]. Some kind of Skill to call in debts. He had all of this lot walking off, and no one noticed.”
“The Merchant’s Guild? Already?”
Ylawes and the Silver Swords stopped in horror, and Nailren shrugged.
“[Bounty Hunters], [Debt Collectors], they’re all over. You probably never had to deal with them, but they pursue these claims. Goisedall knew exactly where you were. I bet they were holding a grudge, so they pointed anyone nearby your way.”
“Those damn—”
For a second red clouded Ylawes’ vision, and he had a grip on his sword hilt. But then he forced himself to bite his lip, hard, and relax. It wasn’t the [Bounty Hunter]’s fault. The Drake was shouting.
“I have a legal contract to pursue my profession! These are criminals—”
“You are in our tribe, Drake. These are our guests. I do not walk into your city and throw my weight around, do I?”
Merish growled as he loomed over the Drake. He shot a glance back at Ylawes and grimaced.
“This makes it far harder to accept your people, Captain. We can watch them, but…”
If every chance [Bounty Hunter] and [Debt Collector] came calling, the Plain’s Eye Gnolls wouldn’t and couldn’t deal with that. Ylawes’ heart sank as Petia and Homle turned to him, but someone spoke loudly.
“Right, more horses. Insill, go get as many as we can afford. We can do half mounted. There’s a good lad. More food too. Petia, Homle, you’re with us.”
“Dawil! We can’t—”
The Dwarf was stumping over to the [Bounty Hunter] as a Gnoll tried to cut the arrow out of his rear-end. Nailren hadn’t shot him hard, but the Dwarf was calm.
“We can and we have to, Falene. That’s what the lad was going to say. I just beat him to it. He doesn’t get to be the best fellow all the time. Petia, Homle, I don’t see any other option, so unless you want to strike out, let’s get moving.”
They nodded silently as Dawil squatted down next to the [Bounty Hunter]. The Drake had gone still.
“I, uh, I’m not after your heads.”
Dawil gave the Drake a friendly smile.
“I didn’t think so. You’re a sensible man, aren’t you, Mister…?”
“Oakley. Oakley Letswood.”
Vhra snorted loudly, and Dawil grinned.
“Nice northern Izrilian name. Okay, Oakley. I’m sure you don’t want to get into any details about why we’re on the Merchant’s Guild’s lists. You’re all business, and the bounty’s the bounty. Do we have one on us?”
“Uh…yes. And it’s definitely not personal.”
“Fair, fair. But let’s just say that we, the Silver Swords, the Gold-rank team, don’t agree with the Merchant’s Guild.”
Oakley was lying very still now. His eyes flickered.
“…Fair. No one does.”
“Right, and you’re just doing your job.”
“Yep. Exactly.”
Dawil was leaning on his hammer. The Dwarf appeared older and ponderous, but he smiled.
“No hard feelings either way. I’d just like to ask you that once you get on your feet and go back to Goisedall, Oakley, to let your friends know—all the people on that bounty? They’re with us. And we are a Gold-rank team, a very respectable one. If you go after one of us, you go after all of us. Now, Captain Nailren’s a friend of ours. We’ve got friends all over. I’d not go anywhere near Liscor, House Byres, or Wistram if you let it be known you were after our bounty. And if we ran into you again, say—and I’m a good eye for faces, even other species—”
He thunked the hammer next to Oakley’s face in the grass, and the Drake didn’t say a word.
“There’s no healing potions in the New Lands. Nor a lot of second chances. I’d hate for you to think I was threatening you, now; the Silver Swords don’t do that.”
“What? Threats? Psht, none at all—”
Dawil hefted his hammer up and nodded.
“Of course not. It’s a promise, Oakley. Just tell your friends that. Now, let me help you with that arrow. Grit your teeth.”
“Wait, wait, I can get a [Healer]—waitwaitwait—”
Dawil yanked the arrow out, and the scream made Ylawes wince. Then he saw the Dwarf walking back, tossing the bloody arrow at Nailren, and the Gnoll gave the Dwarf a respectful gaze. Dawil sighed as he tugged his beard.
“Alright. Let’s get out of here before I decide to walk back to Goisedall and throw a hammer through their Merchant’s Guild.”
The Silver Swords glanced at each other, then moved out. Once more to the New Lands. Merish, Nailren, Viri, all saw them off. Nailren even rode with them for an hour. But then the yellow grass was all around them, caravans in the distance, and Ylawes Byres was riding—not walking—back into those untamed lands.
He wished it were all about the New Lands, not the politics. But, he was finding, the New Lands were all politics. Just not the kind he knew.
 
——
 
After a while, Dawil broke the silence. He was riding on a pony as two-thirds of the group walked. Just as he’d predicted, the generosity of Plain’s Eye did have limits. They didn’t have that many horses to sell, and so it’d be movement on foot.
On the plus side…Ylawes would come up with that later. Dawil just nodded back the way they’d come.
“Did you notice earlier this morning, after your duel, lad?”
“Notice what, Dawil? About the Thousand Lances?”
“Yep. Right when everyone was lining up to challenge the [Squire], Thellabell.”
Ylawes had a hole in his armor in two places he’d need to patch, and bruises. He didn’t want to think about being trounced by her. He wanted a healing potion and a bed in Goisedall. He wanted—
“What?”
“When she didn’t fight Pekona. Well, she ended up losing to Falene, so I can’t say that was lucky. But I swear I saw those Fate Wreaths? The ones they were given? A petal or some fur fell off one of them. It might have been hers. Or maybe her master’s?”
Ylawes blinked at the Dwarf. He didn’t know what to say to that. So he brought something up that was on his mind.
“I think we should address the team, Falene, Dawil. I…I don’t even know what we’re going to say to the colonists. But the adventurers are our teammates. However, now we’re on the lam, and why do they call it that? The lamb? What, are lambs just criminals? We can’t pay them, and we’ve landed ourselves in trouble with the Merchant’s Guild and—”
He was babbling, and Falene’s brows crossed as she glanced at the other adventurers.
“We’re in this together, Ylawes. Vuliel Drae knew they were with us, and Poke Duo have nowhere else to be.”
“But we’ve let them down. We’re the Gold-rankers.”
Neither one had anything to say to that. So Ylawes called over the rest of the Silver Swords. He didn’t know what to say as their faces turned towards him, so he went with what he had.
“Listen. We’re all headed into the New Lands, but I understand if you feel we’ve led you astray. I would advise we stick together, but if you would like to part ways—we only have our supplies. And we are out of gold to pay you with, both on hand and in our accounts, I suspect.”
Dawil slapped his forehead, and Falene groaned.
“Lad…”
Insill piped up.
“We don’t need gold right now, Captain! The Merchant’s Guild are all bastards. I always knew it. They never gave my family a loan—we’re with you! Where else would we go?”
“I just…want to be clear about what I can give you. I should be paying you.”
Ylawes was agonizing, but Falene stepped in, voice crisp.
“We’re having a rough patch. It’s happened before, and I’m sure you know what it’s like, Vuliel Drae. Poke Duo, this sometimes happens. The original Horns had plenty of rough patches before they got to Albez. When we acquire loot, we will split it fairly, but what Captain Ylawes means is that we’ll all have to tighten our belts.”
The adventurers nodded, and Ylawes took a breath.
“Yes. Thank you, Falene. There’s only one thing I can offer you right now. We were going to do this when we got back to civilization, but…I think it’s time. Pekona? Can you help me with our package?”
Dasha grumbled as Pekona’s eyes lit up.
“I don’t want to know what’s in your p—oh! The mithril!”
The colonists who’d been listening to the talk glanced up in confusion, and Homle’s eyes sharpened. He was the only colonist not surprised as Ylawes fetched out the bundle they’d taken all the way from the sunken Drake keep. Old, crusted blades that revealed that odd, tarnished metal. More clean than he’d thought. Pekona lifted up a longsword she’d found.
“I’ve been cleaning them, Captain. They’re not ready yet—”
“No handles.”
The sword blades were handleless, and there were little arrowheads, several spearheads—but Ylawes was shocked by how light they were.
Mithril. He glanced around at his team.
“In light of recent events, I propose all of you take at least one piece. Arrowheads for Larr—anything you need, even if it’s only a sidearm.”
“Wait, we get the Mithril? We’re not selling it?”
Insill gasped, and Anith brushed at his fur.
“Well, we can’t, especially not with the Merchant’s Guild against us. Are you sure, Captain? What if people notice what we’re carrying?”
Ylawes had thought of this. He gestured at the weird, almost bronzy tarnishing on the metal.
“I didn’t notice it, and I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, Anith. Only Pekona did. If I were to guess, I’d say it’s just some odd alloy or even cheap potmetal. If you’re carrying it…”
There was no hammer amidst the mithril, and Falene was carrying her staff. Ylawes had the Graveblade from Liscor’s dungeon, so the Gold-rank adventurers wouldn’t be carrying the mithril.
It might seem as if the lower-ranked members of the team were ill-equipped with some cheap weaponry, then. Dawil smiled.
“Lad, have you been levelling up as a [Rogue]? That’s some cunning insight there.”
In truth, Ylawes was just making excuses for what he wanted to do to salve his conscience. The adventurers eyed each other.
“You’re sure, Captain?”
“There’s a lot of it, Dasha. Go on, I insist.”
There was, in fact, a lot more weaponry than Ylawes had thought. The mithril was light, and because all the handles were missing, even the moderate bundle that he and Pekona had made was actually many pieces.
Vuliel Drae were inspecting the weapons as Larr found no less than twenty-three arrowheads in working condition and a bundle more that needed scraping. He grunted.
“Some even have a point. How d’you sharpen mithril? Pekona?”
“With mithril. I have my sword.”
She peered wistfully at the blades, which were decidedly non-Drathian in style, but Insill had a shortsword, Dasha had found a battleaxe, and even Dawil hefted something.
“Throwing axe. These Drakes had a full set of weapons. No mithril hammers, though. Damn me for using Dwarven weapons. Pointy! Dagger!”
He tossed one at her and another at Ylawes, and Insill and Anith both found one. Rasktooth found no mithril crossbow bolts, much to his sadness; Ylawes bet the tips were so small they couldn’t be found or had been washed away. Infinitypear had his Adamantium spear, but they still had pieces left over.
“We’ll have to get an axe shaft chiseled for your battleaxe, Dasha. Don’t bother popping your current one off; it won’t fit. It’ll be the work of an hour or two.”
Dawil advised the Dwarf woman, and she tugged at her beard.
“So, what, am I a two-handed-axe woman, now? This one doesn’t weigh a thing! I bought a mithril alloy axe, but compared to that…either I was ripped off or this is better metal! Dead gods, it’s so light! Insill, help me make the shaft; I want to swing it!”
Her face had lit up like it was Christmas. Ylawes was vaguely envious. Mithril at Silver-ranker’s level? He just squatted down and sorted through the pieces.
“No armor.”
“Must have been just weapons, or they didn’t wear mithril. Even if they had enough for weapons, a full breastplate’s a big ask, Captain. I’ve got spare daggers too. Put ‘em on the packs?”
Insill was trading out his daggers for his new weapons; he was already going to their supplies for wood to begin crafting. Hand-carved wood handles, leather grips—Ylawes’ hands hurt to imagine the shoddy grips, but with mithril on the other end…
Pekona had her sharpening kit, and she was working on a dagger she’d use to sharpen the others. As the adventurers put their weapons down, Ylawes had another idea.
“Dawil, how much wood do we have to craft handles with?”
“Oh, plenty, lad. The Gnolls sold us some tents they don’t use ‘cause of those handy yurts. We’re cannibalizing the tent poles and we had some of the Drake’s weapons from Goisedall. We might need to lose a tent pole or two to adjust everything, but we can take turns sleeping on the ground.”
Ylawes sighed, but that was the adventurer way. Blade in hand over tent above your head. He tossed over a handaxe and spear.
“Can you do me a spear and axe?”
“Looking to vary your weaponry?”
Dawil’s brows rose, but Ylawes nodded to the colonists.
“No. I’m thinking we should arm our new teammates as well.”
Dawil glanced at the colonists, and his face didn’t change, but his voice lowered as he carved out a handle for Dasha’s axe.
“Lad. I’m not suspicious, but if you gave them mithril, one or two might decide taking the blade and selling it’s worth cutting their losses, especially if they could change appearances…plus, there’s too many.”
“I know that. But what about Petia and Homle? Give me the weapons that we’re not using too. And everything we took from Goisedall’s barracks.”
After a moment, Dawil nodded.
“Fair enough.”
Ylawes walked over to Petia and Homle with a bundle of weapons in his arms.
“Master Petia, Master Homle? I know this is not how we wanted this to go, but we are in each other’s company again. I will do my best not to expose you to danger, but given the threats of Landsharks and worse…this is for you and you.”
He handed Homle the handaxe and Petia the spear, and they goggled at them.
“Are you sure, Captain?”
“I’m sure we need you all armed. I know you have your own weapons—”
Daggers or shortswords at most. Ylawes handed Dasha’s old axe out, and she spun.
“Hey, my axe! Well…fine. But do you know how to use it?”
None of the colonists really did, so Ylawes showed a tentative Homle how to swing the handaxe, and Infinitypear came over to help Petia practice with her spear. Ylawes left the colonists to trying out their weapons and wondered if what he’d done was right.
He found Rasktooth sitting on the grass, cross-legged and meditating. The Cave Goblin had little to do since he couldn’t practice his own weapons, and he hadn’t upgraded.
“You alright, Rasktooth?”
“Eh, sure, Captain. Just doing my cultivating thing. Gotta kill them wiggly-worm things.”
“Kill? Pekona says you reinforce your soul or some such. Your energy. It’s very ex—interesting.”
Ylawes sat down, and Rasktooth grinned at him.
“Oh, that what she said. But I know what I sense, and there lots of nasty poo-things in me. Must’ve eaten something bad-bad. They dying, and I eating their energy.”
“Circle of life.”
“Circle of poo, yah. It all go there eventually. Why you look upset?”
“I’m not certain arming the colonists is a good message to send, Rasktooth. I’m happy to share the mithril.”
Seeing Vuliel Drae practicing with their new weapons, filing their grips, and exclaiming over the lightness of the blades made Ylawes smile faintly. Rasktooth eyed the colonists.
“Why it bad to arm them?”
“They’re civilians, Rasktooth. They didn’t sign up for this.”
“Yeah…but now they in it. Better to have swords and practice than not. You know, I thought it was good idea, Captain. It remind me of my heroes.”
“Who?”
“Rabbiteater! Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Badarrow, Numbtongue! They save us, then they don’t go off and be heroes. They teach us how to live. How to fight. You do that with them? Then you get, uh, lots of adventurers. Way too many to pay. We get more shares than they do, right?”
The Bronze-rank adventurer leaned over nervously, trying to make sure his share of the loot was secure. Ylawes smiled at Rasktooth.
“You’re right, Rasktooth. Where does all this Cave Goblin wisdom come from?”
Rasktooth gave him a round-eyed stare.
“Dunno, Captain. I don’t feel very wise. If you say I’m wise when I live in dungeon all my life, I reckon it’s because you above-ground folk not that wise and we all in the same place.”
Ylawes sighed. He felt like that was unfortunately true. For a moment, he watched Dasha swinging her battleaxe and cutting down the long grass, laughing until one swing was too hard and she sent the battleaxe flying sixty feet in a whirlwind of death that had him and Rasktooth flat on their faces as it soared overhead.
“Dasha! Do we have to put a wrist-strap on your axe again?”
Anith shouted as laughter erupted and Dasha, red-faced, ran over to grab her blade and apologize. Everyone was in high spirits, and the only person a bit sad was Pekona, who’d gone to maintain her blade. Ylawes was walking over to offer her a nice flower he’d espied when she shouted.
“Ah!”
She leapt up, distressed, and whirled.
“Ylawes, oh no! My sword!”
She showed it to him, and it was…rusted. There was a distinct patina of rust on the sword’s edge, and Pekona was mortified.
“I haven’t checked it since Goisedall! With the Goblin King and the Thousand Lances—”
She instantly began to remove the rust, and Ylawes began handing her items to help. He commented.
“Good thing you checked just now, Pekona. If you’d cut yourself with a rusty blade…”
She loved to practice her dangerous quickdraw slashes and other techniques, and there was always a risk of Pekona striking herself, given how acrobatic her sword dances were. She was flushed.
“It’s so shameful. And a rusted blade is a very bad, very dishonorable thing to use. If I had cut that [Squire] in the duel…”
Ylawes blinked, and Dawil, who’d walked over, whistled.
“Wreathes of luck indeed. Not saying that’s it, but I’ll wager that if you had cut through that [Squire]’s armor…rust in the blood’s a nasty illness. Locks you up unless a very good [Healer]’s around.”
He gave Ylawes a significant glance as everyone kept practicing. Then Farmer Petia clanged a spoon on a pot.
“I’m making lunch! Cooks, front and center!”
“You got it, boss lady!”
Rasktooth rolled over until he, Dasha, who was a [Baker], and two of the other [Farmers] with applicable cooking Skills were debating over food. Food made everyone smile, even the distracted Pekona. Ylawes realized they had fresh food from the Gnoll camps and smacked his mouth when he was handed a pear. So decadent!
While he ate and waited for their main course, which was something involving chicken and some sandwich bread and a mustardy sauce that Rasktooth had obtained, Ylawes turned to Dawil, and his good mood faded.
“Dawil. Do you think that it’s really all settled at the inn? Mrsha didn’t say what went down with the Goblin King. I’m sure there was devastation.”
From what he’d seen of the aerial footage, the only reason the Floodplains weren’t cratered was due to the rains and floodwaters. Dawil sat down heavily.
“I don’t know, lad. I didn’t want to push them for explanations. What do you think caused it? Even for the inn…”
They began speculating. Ylawes clenched a fist. He didn’t say the obvious again, that they should have been there. After a moment, he felt someone take his hand. Pekona. She held his hand as they tried to wonder what it might have been.
“What if it was a Goblin in the dungeon? Or some kind of super-Relic there?”
Dawil tugged at his beard.
“Maybe. Or it could be, uh, an Erin-Skill? She’s got that [Pavilion of Secrets]. Could be the Goblin King did that memory thing Goblins do and passed his powers on to some poor Goblin? Remember Numbtongue talking about it? Damn, I wish I’d asked more about Goblins.”
“Me too, Dawil. Maybe. Falene, what do you think it was?”
She walked over, adjusting her spectacles.
“Me? Magic, of course. Archmage Valeterisa and her experiments. Or this Goblin King sensed Chieftain Rags, came to recruit her, and the inn got involved…”
They speculated, sitting around as Vuliel Drae and the colonists came over. Homle shifted uncomfortably.
“But that’s not really…begging your pardon, Captain Ylawes, but I’ve heard of The Wandering Inn. I mean, who hasn’t? But you talk about it like it’s Heiste or some magical land.”
Ylawes smiled at the man as he saw other people eying him skeptically.
“It’s not as grand as that, Master Homle. But neither is it devoid of wonders. It’s the people, not the building.”
“If you say so, Captain Byres. I’ll have to visit some day.”
Homle’s face showed quite clearly he didn’t believe Ylawes, not really, and was just being polite. The [Knight] cast around and glanced at Falene. Her brows rose.
“To the incredulous, it does seem impossible, but I recall that the Players of Celum arose from that very inn. And it was where Zeladona’s Trial of Blades took place. Events you can clearly see and, I am sure, are aware of.”
Homle blinked.
“What, those Players of Celum? They passed by a town where I was working and I missed their performance. Thought it was a load of horseshit, and I regretted never having seen…no.”
“Oh, yes. Lad, tell ‘em about the Face-Eater Moth attack. No, that’s too normal and it makes Pisces the hero. Let’s tell ‘em about…the day they invented soccer at the inn.”
“Were we even there for that, Dawil?”
Ylawes grinned as Pekona leaned against him, and everyone blinked. The Dwarf was stroking his beard.
“No, but I’ve heard the story, and I can just picture it. Right, so let’s describe the inn first. It’s not much to look at from the outside, but by then they’d blown it up…twice? So they had a trapped hallway on the inside, and Miss Erin was, oh, let’s say Level 30-ish. She’d just met some friends from her home. A bunch of rather annoying Humans. Joseph, Leon, Troydel, Rose, Galina—their first entry to the inn was them entering, eating everything in sight, and not having any gold to pay the tab! So they weren’t in Erin’s good books, and she was keeping them there on charity. But on that day, Ishkr told me that it was really Lyonette who was trying to make something of ‘em…”
Lunch came out hot and delicious, and then everyone was sitting in the grass, checking their new weapons and listening to a story about The Wandering Inn. Ylawes smiled as he and Falene corrected Dawil’s tall tales or added details they had been told and remembered.
For a moment, it felt like an adventure.
Then, as before, the bad days came again.

10.62 NY (2026-04-18)

Nailren had a pleasant first week of riding across the New Lands after leaving Plain’s Eye and the Silver Swords.
True, it rained nonstop. He rode through endless showers of it, and his horse actually balked after the third straight day of it, but Nailren was equal to the challenge.
“Alright, alright. Let’s see what we can do. This isn’t going to last more than an hour or two, but…[Create Totem]!”
He pulled out a little, pre-carved piece of wood from his packs, a long and slim marker with a point you could hammer into the ground, and tied it to the horse’s bridle. The magic activated, and the horse, unhappily shaking its head in the rain, paused and then saw the rain was bouncing off its fur and mane without wetting the animal. It shook itself like a dog, and Nailren, who was still wet, sighed.
“Well, at least it works.”
He was a [Clandestine Chieftain of the Arrow] after all. He had no tribe, which meant he had to often do things without any members, and his Skills were a product of that.
[Create Totem] was a basic [Shaman] ability. It let him enchant a totem with the powers of, say…a Level 15 [Shaman]. So nothing great. In the New Lands, it was obviously rather useless; [Shaman] magic drained like everything else, except for his second Skill unique to his class:
[Tribe of One: Lesser Manacharge].
It gave his [Create Totem] ability just enough mana to function, as if he had a tribe of fifty, maybe. Nailren had been interested in trying it out; he’d been carving said totems to deal with the ghosts, but he hadn’t known the spells to make a Ghostward Totem.
This? This was just a little Rainsward Totem, very light on mana-cost. By tying it to the horse’s bridle, it gave the horse and even Nailren a break from the downpour…for four hours.
Nailren ended up re-using his Skill nine more times over the week and burning through all his pre-made totems; once you used it, they became brittle and fell apart. He spent most of the time in the saddle carving, jotting down what he could of the landscape, and riding hard for the Pride of Kelia’s camps.
[Faster to Untamed Lands] helped there too. [Wildlands Rider]—Nailren made excellent time on horseback, and his Skills had him riding up to their camp by the lake fast enough.
The Pride was glad to see him. Kelthe howled at him as he leapt off his horse.
“Captain! Here! Get out of the damn rain!”
They’d set up a more permanent yurt, and he hurried inside and saw a second yurt—all the horses were squeezed inside.
“If your animal kicks, it goes into the rain and cold. Amazingly, that lot’s playing nice—none of ‘em want out in this weather. Couldn’t you have rested in Goisedall? What happened to that group you were sent to find?”
He grunted as he squeezed in and discovered all the Gnolls were there. They were eating clam chowder and some rather ugly crabs with way too long antennae.
“That’s gross.”
“Hey, Captain, don’t be squeamish. It’s from the lake. Some kinda shrimp-stuff. Tastes good, and the water’s fine if you boil it. Don’t worry, we’ve followed protocols. You smell like other Gnolls.”
Nailren tossed his wet cloak down next to the fire, where it began to steam, and groaned as he sat.
“I feel bad for the Silver Swords. They got caught in the rains, and I doubt Falene’s got the mana to shield the lot. First things first—I got everyone to safety, but there were complications in Goisedall. The city’s way more overrun than when you all went, Kelthe. Cuska, you’ll want to take whatever’s good here back east. I know you wanted steady trade. Well, you’ve got it. Plain’s Eye has arrived.”
Cuska looked up from preparing a pelt for drying, flicking shreds of meat into a pot.
“No. Plain’s Eye?”
“Those bastards?”
Another Gnoll, Morr, leapt up, outraged, but Nailren growled at him.
“Don’t start, Morr. They’re not the ones who fought your tribe. Well, some are, but they’re Doombearers now. Chieftain Merish is leading them. He’s got a level head on his shoulders. Oh, and I ran into some of the Thousand Lances.”
“The who?”
His team was agog at all he’d seen in his short trip, and especially at the levels of the Thousand Lances. The Silver Swords’ tale had them shaking their heads.
“If they want to stay with us, we could use help laying a claim here, Captain. I think this lake is worth gold.”
He nodded at Cuska.
“If you want to put down roots, I’ll treat this like a base and contribute, but I’m not staying. My feet are itching; I’m drawing a map up.”
She exhaled.
“You can’t sit still, can you? Well, most of the team’s agreed this is worth a lot. We’re going to make it our base. Maybe a few will want to ride out with you, but…”
She trailed off awkwardly, and Nailren finished the sentence.
“This is how the Pride halts. Or rather, I think it’d be good if the next time we got close to an Adventurer’s Guild, I transferred the team to you, Cuska. That carries some weight, even if you’re only Silver-rankers on the books.”
Her face clouded.
“You sure?”
“Sure as an arrow flies, Cuska. Don’t worry, I don’t take it lightly, but I meant what I said to Merish and you all: I’m done being an adventurer. At least, the kind I used to be. Take it, build something here. You might get Plain’s Eye Gnolls coming this way. Not all seemed keen on Merish’s leadership. But let’s talk defenses. There are a lot of people coming, and after seeing how Ylawes’ team was treated…I don’t want you taken off-guard.”
He distracted them with practicality, and only after they’d eaten and he’d passed around wine he’d bought from Merish’s camps did Cuska get up and sit with him just inside the yurt’s opening. Everyone else was sleeping; they’d get more yurts up later. Kelthe also sat with them.
“You still got a ghost, Captain?”
“Sure do.”
“Weird. No offense, Nailren, but you’ve always been the oddest kind of leader. I thought you’d be all cloak-and-dagger or some veteran like Az’muzarre, barking orders. Instead, I feel like you’d be a [Scholar] or something.”
He grinned.
“I’ll take it as a compliment, Kelthe. Cuska, stop looking guilty.”
“I just feel like I’ve taken something from you.”
He stretched, patting his warm stomach. The weird super shrimp-crabs had been very tasty, and Bekr had apparently gained a class. [Seafood Lover]. Who knew? The world was changing, and so were they. He liked that.
“Taken a weight off my shoulders, you mean? The Pride’s a tool in my paws. A useful one, but I’m sick of wielding it. Neither of you ever had to go on a quiet mission, did you? The kind no one talks about?”
They shook their heads, and Nailren stared out into the New Lands.
“This is the only place I could even talk about it. Even in the Great Plains, there are ears. What else is there to say? When I thought I was having Warsights…I don’t have that many regrets over what I did. Mistakes, sure, but that’s not how I want to live. Besides, if I did too much more I’d end up with a dagger in my back courtesy of Salazsar’s Assassin’s Guild.”
“So you’re bowing out just like us. I get it. That makes it easier, Nailren.”
Cuska was relieved as she stretched her legs out. Then she pointed.
“Okay, it’s too damn rainy and windy here at times. So maybe not a watch tower. But a camp. Walls.”
“Where are you getting the wood from?”
“Wood? I’m talking dirt, Captain. Dirt and stone. Earthenworks. Oh, sure, it’ll suck to build, but instead of someone high up, you get a Gnoll with a bow on the hill. A hill, here, even bigger than this one. For a little while, that’s the camp. Small, snug, defensible. We fish from the lake, and those clam fields are excellent. Keep the lake, keep the clams, and we have food all year.”
“Until someone else gets hungry or comes for it.”
She shoved him.
“You’re such a downer. Yes, until then. But we’re hunting, trading with Plain’s Eye and anyone else who settles. And in time?”
Maybe this becomes a village or a town. Even a trading outpost. He glanced at her.
“Angling for a new class?”
She flushed as Kelthe chuckled because Cuska had talked about this.
“I’d like to build something. Somewhere people would know was mine—and everyone else’s, of course! But maybe a nice building. Cuska’s Den. And then they’d hear about it, and maybe if this place survives, it’d become somewhere important. So yeah. I’m…staying.”
He fished out another skin of liquids, this one Velrusk Claw.
“Here, to your dreams. And to Cuska’s name!”
He took a swig, passed it to Kelthe, then Cuska drank. Then, of course, all three sighed, because all the other Gnolls had woken up.
“Oi, Captain Cuska, former-Captain Nailren, I’ll drink to that.”
“Go back to sleep, Bekr, the adults are talking!”
They growled at him, but everyone wanted a drink, and the skin of Velrusk Claw vanished, but it kept them warm. Nailren grinned and sat back as a ghostly hand wistfully tugged on the empty skin. He lay there, head spinning.
“Shame I can’t give you a drink. What keeps you around?”
Nothing to eat, drink, and he didn’t know how his ghost-friend Spoony saw or heard. But maybe, like him, it was just curiosity even death couldn’t quench. Nailren said goodbye to his team as he drifted off, and it was not bitter at all.
Free. Freer. He slept, dreaming of where he’d go next to map.
 
[Explorer class Obtained!]
[Explorer Level 3!]
[Skill – Forager’s Senses Obtained!]
[Skill – Burst Gallop Obtained!]
[Skill – Test Water Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Cartography Obtained!]
 
——
 
Excellent. Nailren sat up and realized his determination had provided him with a bounty to put a smile on his face. But if he was happy—Cuska leapt up with a shout that morning.
“[Founder], Level 4! [Evaluate Foundation]! We’ve got work to do!”
She danced around, excited, as Bekr groaned.
“Wait, does this mean you’re going to be even more annoying about how we set up things?”
Nailren just grinned as he packed up his things.
“I’m off. Got a direction for me, Kelthe? I’ll be back this way if I can, but I promised to try and make a proper map—just the points of interest around the border of the New Lands.”
“Everyone’s gone north, Captain. There’s almost a trail—of trash if nothing else! I heard something from a Drowned Man I met that claimed there were actually some buildings. I’ll point them out to you.”
Kelthe actually rode an hour with Nailren as she described hearing about two things.
“The first is a waystation where people’re trading. That’s going to be a good ride westwards. But if you head a bit north, not as far as those foothills, you’ll come across another building I’ve heard tell of. An inn, no less.”
“An inn?”
Who’d set up one of those already? Nailren’s ears perked up, and she shrugged.
“It’s all rumors from people on the road. Frankly, I’ve been keeping my head down and not letting them know I’m here unless they’re too close to the camp. I am worried about trouble, but we’ll get that sentry post up, and Cuska’s no fool. If there is an inn, we’ll be visiting for all the drinks we can buy!”
“Just you hold onto that salt and remember: gold’s not the most valuable thing here. Food and vital necessities like that are.”
He tossed her another bag and checked his supplies. Plenty to trade, and light enough to keep going. He’d left enough with the Pride to come back and draw from if he needed credit, and he bet he had a lot if he needed a favor. Which reminded him. He pulled out his first map, and he was pleased at how his paw filled in details and made a decent-looking lake.
[Basic Cartography]. How handy. He marked the first place on his map with a flourish.
Cuska’s Den. Then Nailren set off.
What he found along his journey was that there was indeed an inn north of him. And as Kelthe had warned him, a bit of trouble on the roads.
 
——
 
Or rather, camps. Nailren began running into them as soon as he got a day north of Cuska’s Den. Easy to mark by the fires now that the rains had slackened. He rode towards them naturally, often howling to announce himself.
He didn’t carry his bow, though he had strung it, and he made sure they saw and heard him right off. The first one didn’t even have sentries, but the Drakes were all on their feet the moment they saw him.
“Hey, we don’t want trouble! Ride on!”
“I’m just on my way north. To the inn! You wouldn’t have directions, would you?”
Nailren shouted back, and his trick worked. The Drakes, who had bows and were aiming just at the ground in front of him, hesitated. He saw they were muddy, exhausted, and guessed they were returners, not expeditioners.
“A damn inn? Are you crazy?”
He dismounted and approached as a few came out from their camp. Nailren stuck out a paw.
“Nailren, [Explorer]. Are you coming back from an expedition?”
“We’re coming back for a resupply, and we’ll be damned if we give up our camp. Are you alone? It’s dangerous out here. We were robbed!”
To his surprise, the Drakes weren’t as jingoistic as he’d thought. They were jittery, and only three out of the forty-some group would leave their camp.
“We did well enough. Damn mana drain…but we found a full clam field and stripped it. Between that and hunting it was going well until we were hit by [Bandits]! They swooped in while we were trying to hunt. Held both groups up, took our food, and left. Adventurers. Human bastards—you see any that claim to be Silver-rankers, you watch out.”
“Hmm. I’ve not run into them. Any descriptions?”
“Muddy? One of them uses a warhammer—they’re Humans; I can’t say any had more than a few nasty scars. I’d recognize them if I saw them again, but we’re headed back to Goisedall. We’ll get more food, maybe see if anyone else wants to run with us for security, and get back out there.”
The Drake doing all the talking was named Lancet, and he seemed ready to go. Nailren frowned.
“You’ll need a lot of coin in Goisedall. I was just there; prices are insane.”
“What? How bad?”
Nailren quoted a few prices, and the Drakes groaned. Another came over.
“You’re sure that’s not just a rush?”
“Believe me, everyone’s out there. Have you anything to trade?”
“Maybe.”
They grew suspicious again, and Nailren lifted his paws, smiling easily.
“All I ask is because there’s also the Plain’s Eye tribe. They’re actually before the New Lands—I’m working on a map.”
He showed them it, covering Cuska’s Den with a paw as he held it against his horse’s side. Lancet blinked.
“Plain’s Eye? Weren’t they wiped out or something?”
“Not all. They’ve got herd-animals. If you’re wanting to make a camp, I’d buy some for milk.”
“That could work. So if we just head west…”
“Maybe a bit south? But you should see them.”
“Thank you, stranger. Er…”
“Nailren.”
The Gnoll nodded to them, got a belated shake of the claw from Lancet, and was riding onwards when the Drake shouted at him.
“You didn’t see anything valuable, did you?”
“Only everything!”
Nailren shouted back with a laugh, and the Drake stood there, confused.
 
——
 
The other camps were not the same level of wary, but they were all wary in different ways, if that made sense. The next group Nailren ran into was half-Human, half-Gnoll, funnily enough.
“Team effort! I’m Trader Mahawl from Reizmelt! Home of the Wind Runner, don’t you know! We teamed up with these Gnolls, and we’ve been making fine, fine progress. Please excuse our vigilance.”
The Gnolls were waving at Nailren, but they had an eye on the horizon and other groups of expeditioners moving west. Nailren saw Mahawl glancing at him, around, and guessed.
“Have you had a bad run-in with other travellers?”
“Is it obvious? [Thieves]. They haven’t made off with much, but we’ve had a few incidents. People coming to our camp to talk and things missing…not that we don’t want to be friendly! But I think we’d better head away from the others. Not enough opportunity together, anyways.”
“Very fair. I won’t trouble you; I’m heading north, not west for the moment. Have you heard of a waystation west of here? Or an inn?”
“Someone’s already got a waystation up? And there’s an inn?”
There it was again. Nailren savored being the deliverer of news to the groups he ran into. Because there were no [Message] spells here, his news of Plain’s Eye behind the caravaners, or these two mysterious buildings, were the first they heard of it.
Then again—he got to get the same experience when a trio of half-Elves riding east ran into him. They raised their bows so fast he had his in his paws and called out.
“Peace, peace!”
He saw a glaring half-Elf aiming an arrow at him and two more bows pointed past him when their leader shouted.
“Lower your bow! Down, everyone—he’s not with the [Bandits]. Don’t raise your bow, stranger! Apologies, but there’s been trouble.”
Nailren shouted at the trio as they drew slightly closer, eying them.
“I’m on my way north to find an inn of some kind!”
“The Explorer’s Haven? You’re heading the right way!”
They relaxed a bit, and he blinked.
“You’ve been there?”
“Been there? It’s the only building with fresh food and supplies until you get out of the New Lands! But I warn you—no trouble there. We have had enough, and if you’re representing a larger group, we are all armed.”
The half-Elf woman who was leading this trio frowned at him, and Nailren lifted his paws again.
“I’m just by myself, mapping this area. What kind of trouble?”
She sighed.
“Other colonies, adventurers playing [Bandit], some kind of monster that wiped out two colonies—if we’re jumpy, I apologize. This is not necessarily the experience I expected. It almost makes me think we should have joined the colony in the west.”
“Bah. If I have to hear ‘sister’ one more time, I’ll find one of their trees to hang myself off of. We’re from the north. House of El, I suppose, though we’re not affiliated.”
The half-Elves grew a bit more cordial when Nailren was clearly not with anyone, and he warmed them further when he produced a bag of salt.
“Do you have anything to trade?”
Meeting half-Elves from Izril’s north tickled his fur, and the leader immediately grabbed something from her belt.
“How’s a permanently-warm skin of a salamander sound? They’re a bit rough, but we have six. If we had [Tailors], I’d make a cap or cloak of it if we can get enough.”
“Fast things. We’re both hunting and scavenging. There’s some value to those coral-trees we see everywhere. They might not burn well, but the corals are huge and last for up to eighteen hours without needing replacement.”
Nailren frowned as he came forwards to inspect the black, scaly skin of some creature they’d been hunting.
“Oh, that is warm!”
Not very warm, but enough to be noticeable. The hide was thicker than he’d want, but if he lined a cloak with that, he doubted he’d ever get cold. Then again, unless he was wet, his fur did well enough.
“How about it?”
They wanted the salt. Nailren pulled a face.
“Salt’s dear enough, and I only have two bags.”
He had four, but he pretended to waver until the half-Elves conferred, and one pulled out another trophy.
“Corusdeer horn?”
“I can’t carry it, though that’s a fine antler. Did you take down a buck?”
“We did. Alright, then…how about some gold?”
“I don’t need g—”
Nailren began before they produced a solid lump of it. He blinked as one handed over a nugget that filled his paw. It was heavy, and their leader nodded to it.
“Turns out the minerals clump up like that. It’s worth far more than the salt, to be honest, but we’ve no way of trading it except with other colonies and the inn. How about it?”
“Salt for skins and the nugget?”
“Are you mad?”
“Alright, alright. I’ve got some oil here. Cooking quality. How about both?”
In the end, Nailren turned over the bag of salt, a pot of oil, and five arrowshafts for the nugget and Warm Salamander skins. He thought it a good deal, and they clearly agreed.
“Profitable. You might get the best deal we’ll ever trade for.”
“Well, I’ll take it with gratitude. I’ll head to the inn—should I expect trouble?”
The half-Elf shook her head.
“The name’s Velinda. Apologies for the scare, but I think you’re fine. We ran the [Bandits] off, and they’re after food more than coin at the moment. As for the monster? If you see it, warn anyone. It’s fast and apparently looks a bit like a Ghoul, but that’s the only rumor we have. It’s so fast you’d barely outrun it on horseback. Allegedly. As for other trouble, well, you’re only one person. As long as you don’t flash your supplies around…we had other colonies trying to extort goods. Watch who you trust.”
Hmm. So it had already begun. Nailren nodded thoughtfully.
“Any culprits?”
“We were extorted by Drakes, but we have just as many groups who’re good neighbors. And we, ah, can’t tell which group threatened us. I’d hate to cast aspersions at the other groups, but they are the most notable for now.”
“Good to know, either way. If you have any other landmarks or warnings, I’d love them. For the map?”
“Can we buy a copy?”
The half-Elves were interested, but Nailren assured them it contained nothing of value. When he told them about the Plain’s Eye tribe, the entire group groaned instead of being happy.
“Great. No offense, Explorer Nailren, but that’s a lot of competition.”
“They don’t intend on heading far into the New Lands.”
Velinda leaned on her horse’s back.
“No…but they’ll enable more people to push inwards and settle. We’d better decide if this is a permanent camp or we want to keep moving. The Haven’s attractive, but I’d rather use it to push further inland. If we don’t keep moving, we’ll fall to inertia, and there’s far more to see.”
He liked her pragmatism. Velinda appeared older than Falene, which spoke to a lot of decades of experience. Nailren thanked the half-Elves and then kept riding, hiding the gold nugget in his packs. He didn’t know what to do about the Warm Salamander skins, but they were a treasure in and of themselves.
Boot linings maybe. Always keep your boots warm even if it rains. No, wait, they’ll just give me sweaty feet. If only I could get them hotter they’d dry things. A warming hip flask for tea?
Why was the name The Explorer’s Haven so familiar? Then Nailren found the inn and realized the answer.
 
——
 
The Explorer’s Haven was a promising spot. Good access to the river, nice sight lines, the beginnings of a wall, and the inn itself was sturdy. Nailren liked it.
He wasn’t sure, though, if it was too unguarded. They didn’t have more than a single tower up, and while he saw someone was in there, it felt…exposed. He wasn’t sure if he should be going around saying ‘hey, I might decide to attack this place if I were a [Bandit]’, though, and the [Innkeeper] seemed sharp enough.
The Explorer’s Haven was packed. So many people coming through it—but the staff were alert, if besieged. More importantly, Nailren’s nose picked up fried oil, fresh bread, and he realized they had supplies.
How in the world…? Then he saw Barnethei striding around, and it clicked.
The Explorer’s Haven.
The Adventurer’s Haven.
“I’m an idiot.”
One question to a flashily-dressed [Server] and she confirmed that yes, this was an offshoot of the famous inn. In fact, when he mentioned he was an adventurer, the woman’s eyes lit up.
“Oh really? Which team?”
He grinned at her as she put some fresh bread and soup in front of him.
“The Pride of Kelia. I doubt you’d have heard of it; we’re mostly southern.”
The brown-skinned Human woman’s eyes rolled up in her head, and she put her hands on her hips as she thought.
“The Pride…the Pride…Silver-rank team, all Gnolls. Travels a lot. You were in Liscor! Captain Nailren, correct?”
He blinked in pure surprise, but she was a member of the Haven. They knew adventurers. And his name had brought over no less than Barnethei himself. The [Innkeeper] clasped hands with Nailren.
“An adventurer and an [Explorer]? This is exactly the place you should come to, sir! Can I get you a drink, on the house? It’ll have to be a small one—we’re rather pressed for everything.”
The server frowned, and he added.
“Just a small one, Navien. He’s from Liscor!”
The glass of whiskey was very small indeed, and Barnethei seemed embarrassed, but Nailren accepted it with a huge grin and toasted them.
“I fully understand that supplies are scarce, Innkeeper Barnethei. Clean water is a gift enough out here! How do you stay afloat? I can see you’re doing amazing trade, but the cost—”
Barnethei chuckled hugely.
“I suspect the margins aren’t what Larracel wants, but we are pulling in coin. People are buying nonstop, so it is a bit of a press—but that’s a good place to be in.”
So long as you can keep supplied. Nailren didn’t say that, he just repaid the drink by talking about what he’d seen, to Barnethei and Navien’s clear fascination. When he showed them his map, Barnethei’s eyes lit up.
“Just the thing we need for business!”
“Barnethei, we can barely hold on as it is! But yes, it would be good to know who else we can trade with. Plain’s Eye Gnolls southeast of here? Larracel will love that.”
“I’ll mention the inn to them, and I’m after this waystation I’ve heard of.”
Barnethei gnawed on his lip as he adjusted his coat.
“A waystation? Mostly, we’re getting people entering the New Lands. Someone’s beaten us that badly to the spot? If you do find them, we’d love to know. I’ll have a free meal and a handsome drink for you on the way back, and I’ll buy your maps if you double back this way.”
Nailren grinned.
“It’s nice to be important, yes? You have yourself a deal, Innkeeper. Just before I go, is there any trouble about? I heard some talk of it…”
Barnethei frowned.
“No more than the usual for us. Maybe a bit of rowdiness with the mana loss and food issues—you know about both? Of course, but we’ve been fine. This is an offshoot of the Haven. We can handle ourselves.”
Navien produced a wand and flipped it around before catching it, and Nailren chuckled before wondering if that was a bit of overconfidence.
He’s high-level, he’ll be fine especially if Larracel herself is giving them magic and support. Nailren finished his meal and wished they had guest rooms. He didn’t mind roughing it, but sleeping in a proper bed would be heavenly.
“We’ll work on those amenities after the basics. Best of luck, [Explorer].”
He doubted he left that much of an impression, but Nailren still grinned as he went west from there. He passed by numerous camps, including the half-Elven one, and came to the river.
“Hrr. Right.”
Nailren’s journey north hadn’t taken him west at all, which meant that he’d forgotten the river that came out of the foothills. Easy enough for him to judge a spot to ford; he was a fine swimmer, and the rainfall had slackened enough so it wasn’t treacherously deep. Plus, his horse was also good at swimming. He’d bought the animal for its ability to traverse the wilds.
Nailren wondered how other groups were dealing with the river. Then he kept riding and riding, mapping the varied lands, until he came to the place known as Woll’s Waystation, the first major settlement in the New Lands of any kind.
To Nailren, it was quite a pleasant trip. If he sensed danger, he rolled up in his bedroll, hid his horse, and he knew enough bushcraft that twice, a group of riders rode within fifty feet of him at night and never saw nor smelled him. His new Skill let him pluck foragables out of the ground, and he had a merry time hunting and testing what was actually edible or useful.
He was, after all, rather good at this. And more than good at this, he was well-prepared.
The same could not be said of other groups.
 
——
 
Ylawes cursed the rain as he had never cursed anything before in his life. He had surely lived through worse rain. He’d seen magical storms, been on adventures during hurricanes—
But this felt personal. It was as if there were Spring Faeries or something, and the mischievous little bastards had armed the very clouds and sharpened each raindrop to make it extra-cold and piercing, then hurled them down by the thousands on him.
It soaked his armor, which no longer fit him properly and thus let water seep in through the places where the metal normally connected securely together. Instead, the cloth padding and underarmor had begun fraying, and then the water was stuck against his skin.
Clothing chafing his skin raw, and his boots were soaked. He’d gotten his socks wet on the first day, and that meant they’d never dry. He developed blisters, and the ground turned muddy, and they were sloshing through it.
The rains didn’t stop. The Plain’s Eye tribe’s bags were waterproofed and solid, but even then, bags had to be opened and there was little shelter. After a few days, all the food was wet and sopping, and they had to be careful because their new stores might rot, and they were in the New Lands, and he hated it.
The exuberance over the new Mithril gear turned into a kind of excitement and hope as they marched and saw other groups. But then the rains began to fall, and it just—got—
Bad.
 
——
 
The idea was that they’d do what had saved them last time: find a job escorting or guarding someone and make money, or better yet, gain supplies and wait until this situation with the Merchant’s Guild was dealt with.
Falene was optimistic they’d sort it out within the month between everyone. Still a long time, but they had provisions for at least a few weeks if they rationed, and they weren’t starving.
They’d do this right. Plus, with these other groups, it would be easy to find work, right?
The first group they ran into were a bunch of Drakes who politely asked them to keep clear—they’d had [Thieves] and didn’t want to be followed—but they were nice enough.
The sixth group were Gnolls who saw the packs from Plain’s Eye and told Larr that if he came closer they’d shoot him for being a traitor. Ylawes had to ride Larr away from a twenty-minute long howling match where he shouted at them he was on the right side of history.
On group twelve, Ylawes was getting worried; most of the caravaners took one look at his group of sixty-some people and said they were way too numerous to hire or feed. But he was discouraged when he was riding back from a rather haughty group of nobles who’d refused to introduce themselves, just telling Ylawes that they had enough ‘hired help’. Then Insill waved him over.
“Captain! Anith’s found a potential hire! This way!”
The thirteenth group of mostly Humans were riding caravan-style, and Ylawes slowed when he saw the man with that familiar floppy cap and wet clothing emblazoned with the Merchant’s Guild sigil. He told himself that this was just his imagination—especially because the man seemed rather eager to hire them.
“Ah, is this your Captain? Trader Tilfem! My good man, this, er, fine Gnoll was telling me you had a party for hire! We could indeed use more hands!”
“Really, Trader? I’m Captain…Byres.”
Ylawes had the thought to not use his real name, but he panicked and just said his last name. The [Trader] nodded, smiling.
“We’re hoping to set up a fine spot inland. Tilfem’s Tea Expedition, that’s the name. So, you’re a mix of adventurers and trade skills, eh? What brought you out here searching for work?”
So that was what Anith had said? The ‘Gnoll’ glanced at Ylawes as the [Knight] fumbled for an explanation.
“Well, we…are coming for the bounty of the New Lands, sir. But we figured we might as well earn coin while we’re travelling.”
“Absolutely, absolutely! Well, er, consider yourselves hired! I’ll pay five copper per head per day. How’s that?”
Five copper a head? Ylawes’ mouth opened.
“I think for my team, which is Gold-rank—”
“Oh, of course! For your team, ah, would five silver per day work? I know you are Gold-rank, but given the daily expenses and the coin I have…”
The man hurried to clarify, and Ylawes wondered if he should haggle for Vuliel Drae, but he didn’t want to bring their exact names up. He nodded, feeling something was off a bit. But the man appeared honest, and he was a [Trader].
A [Trader].
“We can move our group with yours, Trader Tilfem. Let me just get them.”
They’d stopped to rest up while he rode out to see if anyone wanted work. The man was only too eager to agree, and Ylawes rode back to tell them the good news.
Dawil was sitting next to a fire as it rained, looking as miserable as Ylawes had ever seen him. The fact that they had fire at all was only thanks to Falene and her new Skill. She had conjured a very small magical fire and a tiny umbrella spell. Everyone was fighting to get warm, and adventurers or not, the colonists were just as desperate.
Homle was shoving Dawil for space as Falene snapped.
“No, I can’t make the umbrella spell bigger. Be grateful I can even cast that! I’m gaining more mana thanks to upgrades to my Mana Well, but—oh, Ylawes, are we moving on?”
“Actually…we’ve found work.”
Ylawes tried to smile, but when Falene turned, he beckoned to her.
“It’s Tilfem, a [Trader] and a caravan just down the way. They’re equal in number to our group, maybe a dozen bigger?”
“A [Trader]? What if he recognizes us?”
Falene was alarmed. Dawil got up.
“They’re not going to know every team, Pointy, and he’s been in the mana drain as long as we have. Lad, you seem uncertain. What’s wrong?”
“Nothing…his group didn’t look threatening.”
But something felt off. Falene glanced at Ylawes.
“I could muster some mana for a [Long Ear] spell? Listen in as we move over carefully?”
“Yes, that’s a good idea.”
They packed up and rode towards Tilfem, who was waiting with a genuine-looking smile. Ylawes didn’t see any signs of hostility from the men and women packed into the covered wagons, either. If anything, they seemed heartened by the newcomers.
“There we are! We may have room for your people to ride out of the rain! [Rainproof Coverings], ha-hah! You ride with my Skills, Captain Byres! Shall we?”
“Of course, Trader.”
No matter how hard Ylawes searched, he didn’t see an issue. Not a hidden threat, not signs of an ambush, and Tilfem was even finding his coin box to pay them the first day. He was speaking to Pekona as Ylawes gave Falene and Dawil an embarrassed glance, and she tapped one ear to show she was still listening in. She kept wincing; the rain must be as loud as thunder with her spell.
But Ylawes’ less-keen ears clearly heard Tilfem talking to Pekona.
“I’ll have your team running security around my caravan, of course. Miss…Pe-coe-nah, is it?”
“Yes, Trader.”
“Good, good. Well, we’ll have work soon enough. We’ve got plenty of stock, and none’s spoiled. Plenty to, um…well, we’ll see how bad this ground is, eh?”
She and Ylawes paused, and the name of the expedition struck Ylawes again. Pekona bobbed a bow, timid.
“You sell tea, Merchant Tilfem?”
“Do I? Of course! Everyone needs tea. It’s a luxury in the New Lands; I was doing a [Trade Route Calculation], you see, and I calculated tea would be in short supply here! Well, it only takes some thought to think that it’s not the most kept resource. We have bags and bags of it. And tea bushes, you know. Saplings…they’re doing splendidly in their pots. We’ll find a good spot for them.”
He had come here trying to grow tea? Ylawes’ mind flashed to the Consortium, and then he had a second thought. He glanced at the wagons and noted how packed they were.
All full of people. But for this many, you’d need twice as many wagons for the food. Unless, of course, you were a typical [Trader], in which case you’d save on extra wagons with—
A Chest of Holding. Only, here—Tilfem was counting coins into Pekona’s hand fast.
“This should take care of it for the first day. Now, provisions. I take it your team is well-stocked? We may just share what we have. Let’s break out a meal and—”
“Pekona!”
Ylawes shouted, and she jumped and dropped the coins just as Falene whirled.
“Ylawes, a word—”
They converged on Trader Tilfem as the copper coins dropped—literally—to the ground. Tilfem started, then smiled.
“Ah, Captain. I was just saying we—”
“We have to go. Deepest apologies, Trader, but I don’t think we can honor this contract after all. Pekona, give the man his coins back. Anith! Mount up!”
Anith had heard too, and he was already calling the colonists back. Farmer Petia hopped out of a wagon, face pale; she clearly had found out what they had. Tilfem was blustering.
“What? This is highly—why would you do this, Captain? We had a deal, and I am a man of deep integrity! I-I demand an explanation.”
He licked his lips, and Ylawes motioned his team away. Now he thought about it, Tilfem hadn’t even blinked at Rasktooth and Infinitypear.
“Silver Swords, let’s go—”
“Hold on! You must hold!”
Tilfem shouted, and now his [Guards] were getting out of the wagons. They were hesitant, and Tilfem was still trying.
“On what grounds? I’ll lodge a complaint! Why—”
“They have no food!”
Ylawes shouted, and it dawned on the rest of Vuliel Drae, the colonists. Their hands flew to their horses, and several of Tilfem’s people who’d been approaching the packed horses hesitated.
“Dead gods damn it, it’s the Expedition all over again! Back! Back!”
Homle roared, seizing a saddlebag from one of Tilfem’s people. Ylawes saw some flour spilling onto the ground.
“No! You can’t leave! I insist! We had a deal!”
Now, Tilfem’s people were all coming out, and a [Guard] tried to knock Homle down. He got a shove instead that took him into the muck. Another man drew a sword on Homle and froze as a click-click made everyone hesitate.
Rasktooth aimed both crossbows straight at the man’s face and groin, and Larr had an arrow drawn. Ylawes panted.
“Back up. Silver Swords, check your packs. We’re going.”
“We have a deal—”
One of the [Guards] was trying to count numbers, but he flinched when Ylawes drew his sword. The Graveblade felt cold in Ylawes’ hands. Cold as the day he cut Salamander.
“We’re Gold-ranks. We don’t have food to spare. Turn around, now. You won’t survive without it.”
Tilfem stood there as Ylawes backed up, having to jog after the animals and his team.
“Cheat! Rogue! We can make a deal! We can still do this!”
“Turn around! You’ll die and kill everyone!”
Ylawes roared as the rain pounded harder, and water slid down his back, like his stomach. He was shouting at the [Guards], the people in wagons.
“I’m sorry, I can’t help! For the love of Izril, turn around!”
They didn’t. Even when his group was marching away, he saw those wagons with their lanterns moving onwards, a flickering light headed into the New Lands.
 
——
 
That, more than anything, was the final blow to Ylawes’ morale. He’d nearly walked his team into another trap.
They’d had a debriefing afterwards, of course, with Anith, Dawil, Falene, Homle, and Petia. No one had come outright and said how stupid Ylawes was, but they had politely laid some ground rules.
“From now on, let’s all talk before we commit to any decisions, especially ones regarding employment, right, lad? I’m not saying it’s not your decision as leader, but…”
…But that’s almost two strikes. Ylawes had of course agreed, and he’d been shamefaced afterwards. Everyone had been insistent that no harm, no foul, they hadn’t lost much—but he felt the most rattled and ashamed out of everyone.
After that, Ylawes mostly gave up on asking other groups they met for work—not that they could see many after the second day when the rains got worse and the press of groups let up.
Then they were navigating rocky Coral Lands, cursing when they stepped on the too-hard, stone-like plants, trudging forwards, and Ylawes was thinking.
He didn’t know Tilfem was out of food. He didn’t know the caravan would starve.
Could you eat tea? Was it…edible? Ylawes would have eaten it when he was starving. He’d have eaten anything. How many groups were in this strait?
How much food did they have? They’d lost some, despite him noticing the trap, and he cursed every bag of spilled flour or sack that they’d handed over before he’d figured it out.
His fault. What if they ran out of food again?
Stress, wet, and this sensation they were walking back into hell left the [Knight] so visibly out-of-sorts that Falene thought he was sick.
“Are you sure you don’t have a fever? You’re deathly pale, Ylawes. Let me check your temperature.”
“I will.”
Pekona put her hand on Ylawes’ forehead, and Falene drew up, blinking, then wore a resigned expression as she waited. Pekona shrugged.
“He doesn’t feel hot.”
“How about clammy?”
Since Pekona didn’t know what that meant, Falene felt at Ylawes’ forehead. She checked his vitals, then her hand jumped away. She cleared her throat.
“I…think you’re just under the weather. If you get worse, tell us at once. In a group like this, out here, sickness will be all our deaths. If this rain doesn’t do worse. Argh! Is it my turn to ride yet?”
She stomped away. Ylawes stood there with Pekona.
Pekona.
It wasn’t like he and Pekona had forgotten their tryst in Goisedall. Far from it; Ylawes had wondered if they might say no more of it, pretend the affair was just that, and do as some adventurers did to avoid a longer relationship.
The second night with the Plain’s Eye Gnolls when he’d caught her lingering around his yurt had sort of made that question pointless. And then—well—
No one brought it up in the Silver Swords. Ylawes ate with Pekona, talked with her more, and they would have shared a bedroll except for three things:
One, his bedroll wasn’t big enough for two people. It was wet and cold, and everyone needed to be bundled up in as much waterproof cloth as they had to stay dry overnight. They crammed together to sleep as well, especially since they’d cannibalized two tents for weapon parts.
Two, they slept close enough to everyone else that noise of…activities…would be a consideration.
Three, they were so tired from marching all day that they didn’t really feel like it.
Kissing. Kissing was nice. Holding each other’s hands was nice. Snuggling was nice. Ylawes hadn’t known snuggling was such a fine invention of the romantic genre, but he wondered why everyone was sleeping on it.
Now, this was not to say that Ylawes was not not interested in other things. In fact, as a man who had not pursued any serious romantic relationships his entire life thus far until the age of twenty-eight—because he’d been waiting for marriage and such—he was now highly concerned with the things that other adventurers talked about.
The wide and many things Todi had talked about—Ylawes’ head spun to imagine it, and it was one of the only things that kept him warm in the miserable downpour. He’d even broached the subject with Pekona about it, and she was down to try…things.
Even that one? And he wasn’t pressuring her, and she actually wanted to—?
Wow. Like a [Novice Mage] entering Wistram’s libraries for the first time, Ylawes was interested in learning, but he felt Pekona was just as shy about starting anything as he was. They’d meet after dinner and hug, then sit together, which evolved naturally into a bit of snuggling, and then a kiss, and then—
Well, it was time to sleep or stand sentry, and Ylawes felt like he really should have tried something earlier, but he was too nervous to say something she wouldn’t want to do. And she kept playing with his hands in a very distracting manner—
But if there was a fourth reason he was uncertain, it was Falene.
Falene, the [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. Which, Ylawes felt, was a bit too close and—and—
“Do you think it’s because of us?”
Pekona avoided meeting Ylawes’ eyes, which told him it was absolutely about them. But to his surprise, she whispered at him.
“Falene is a…big girl. Adult. She knows who she is. I respect her.”
When had this come about? Actually, Ylawes had noticed Dasha walking with Falene more, and Pekona and Falene were cordial, but he pressed her.
“But her class—it just sounds like—”
“I think you should let it be, Ylawes Byres.”
She frowned at him firmly. Ylawes hesitated, then dropped it because she’d never spoken to him in that tone before. After a moment, she linked arms with him and towed him over to stare at a giant, ugly frog munching on bugs in the rain. But Ylawes couldn’t let it be.
He didn’t know if he wanted to know. Because…Ylawes felt guilty. He didn’t know if his suspicion was reality, and for once, no one wanted to help.
 
——
 
“Rasktooth, Infinitypear. About Falene. Has she seemed down since I, uh, since I and Pekona—? I was just wondering because of her new class, and you two have a good instinct for—”
For the first time, the two Bronze-rank adventurers did not want to talk to Ylawes. In fact, when they heard his question, Infinitypear went sprinting forwards.
“We are going to check for monsters!”
“That right, we know nothing!”
Ylawes felt like that meant they knew something and jogged after them.
“I just need to know if you think—”
“Lalalalala, we not hear you Captain! You take hint please!”
Highly concerning. None of Vuliel Drae wanted to bring the topic up either. Dasha tried to out-jog Ylawes when he went to have a word.
“Look, uh, Captain. Why don’t you think about something else? Always works for me. Like squirrels. Ever notice how many of ‘em are around? With fins? Do they taste like tuna? Let’s drop it, huh?”
“What squirrels?”
Ylawes turned his head, and she dashed off. When he turned to Anith and Insill, the [Rogue] cartwheeled behind one of the packhorses, and Anith engaged Petia in conversation.
 
——
 
There was only one person that Ylawes could turn to. His rock, his friend, his guidance and older figure—
“Lad, I appreciate you leaning into the joke, but I do not want to do this.”
Dawil’s face was set as he stumped along in the rain, and Ylawes hissed at him. Falene was riding ahead, arguing with Homle.
“No, I won’t cast more drying spells. I know it’s wet, but I need some mana for danger.”
“Miss Falene, we’ll die happier. I’ll throw myself in front of the monsters or arrows if you’re out of mana! Think on it! Dry socks.”
“…Well, even if I did use all the mana for the day, how would I dry everyone’s socks? The spell is too much mana.”
“Let me tell you what the lads and I thought. Pot, fire, all warded and the like. Little drying area to put your boots on. You cover that up with those umbrellas, and we toss all the socks in a pot, give ‘em a wash, let them dry…and we put our boots there.”
“…go on…”
The allure of fresh socks called to Ylawes too, but he turned to Dawil.
“Dawil, I have to know. I’ve been thinking it over, and I think Falene’s class relates to, you know, Pekona and me?”
“Now why…would you think that, Lad?”
Dawil breathed, staring ahead fixedly. Ylawes hesitated.
“Well, I didn’t until—I saw her face. In Goisedall. I mean, I have thought about it. But you know the rules. Never sleep inside the team. Don’t be a Todi.”
“Absolutely.”
“It’s not that I don’t like Falene. I’d have absolutely dated her but for that rule—”
Dawil stumbled, nearly fell on the ground. He glanced up sharply.
“But you’re with Pekona.”
“Yes…that was—it wasn’t what I’d call a lapse in judgement, and I hope she doesn’t feel that way, even if I’m the Captain. More of a—a confluence of events where I realized I wanted to take a risk and try. I know it’s embarrassing.”
Dawil’s eyes flicked to Falene, and he slowed further.
“But you like Pekona.”
“Yes.”
“You didn’t make her feel like she had to do this? You two weren’t drunk? You made her no promises?”
“No! Dawil, I was entirely honest, I swear. It’s just Falene—”
Dawil stared at Ylawes, and his normally-genial face was strained.
“Let’s play a game, Ylawes.”
“I don’t think now is—”
“It’s a damn hypothetical, Ylawes. Let’s pretend Pekona didn’t exist. Never met her. Let’s say it was you and Falene in Goisedall and she said, oh, I don’t know, ‘I know we’re teammates but I’d like to try’. Would you have given it a shot?”
Ylawes grew exceptionally uncomfortable and turned to Pekona.
“I don’t think that’s an answer I want to give, Dawil. With Pekona—”
“Pretend she doesn’t exist. Pretend it’s another Ylawes in, I don’t know, some make-believe world! Would that Ylawes do it?”
Ylawes didn’t truck with all these hypothetical realities, but he had to answer.
“I…yes. That Ylawes would have.”
“I see.”
Dawil walked on, head bowed, tugging at his beard. Ylawes went on.
“I just didn’t—”
“Falene’s liked you since the day we met, lad. If not romantically, then by the end of the first year, I’d say that she would have tried asking you if she didn’t know the rules. She’s thrown enough hints down. Now, you tell me you’d have chanced it. What am I supposed to do with that? Dead gods, I didn’t want to know that. Damn Pointy. I feel sorrier for her.”
Dawil stomped along, moving away from the group, and Ylawes stopped dead in his tracks. Poke your head into the cave and you’ll get an answer. Captain Todi, the Sage of Adventuring Love, whispered in his ears.
“I…I didn’t know.”
“I know. That’s the only reason I didn’t slap your ankle with my hammer.”
“So her class is—”
“Yep. I hope it means she’s moving on. Pursuing love and magic rather than following after you. If she’s pining, she’s doing a good job. Frankly, I think seeing how your parents treated Pekona swung it. Falene Skystrall is many things. Haughty, arrogant, pigheaded, too full of herself, but she’s not unkind. We know that.”
Dawil still didn’t peek at Ylawes. The [Knight] turned.
“I have to apologize to her—”
Dawil grabbed his arm, and Ylawes jerked to a halt.
“Ylawes Byres, if you mention this to her, I will hit you with my hammer. Leave it be. Never say a word to Falene about this, you understand? You were dumb as a rock, and you’re going to stay that way or you will split this team.”
He growled, anger flashing in his eyes, and Ylawes faltered.
“But I—”
“Who are you going to make happy by apologizing? You? Pekona? Falene? What’s she supposed to say when you walk up and say, ‘sorry I missed you and fell head-over-heels with an adventurer I’ve been on two missions with’?”
Ylawes hesitated, and Dawil went on.
“Listen to me, Ylawes. I tease you that I’m older than you, but that doesn’t mean much—except for stuff like this. Ask yourself a question: what’s the best case scenario from talking to Falene about what happened?”
“I…don’t know.”
Dawil rolled his eyes.
“The best case…let’s go for it. Best case is Falene forgives you, throws her arms around you, and confesses her love, and Pekona’s so won over you three enter a relationship together.”
A three-way romance? Which meant a three…some? Ylawes tried to imagine it. His helmet nearly exploded. Then Dawil went on.
“Now, let’s do worst case. Worst case is Falene hears you out and blames herself for not doing anything and quits because it’s too awkward. Or she forgives you, but that means Pekona wonders if she’s the second-rate option and breaks it off with you. Then Falene’s left wondering forever if she’s the pity-vote. Worst case: neither one can handle it, and they either split the teams with people choosing sides or one offs the other in the night. Or leaves.”
“That wouldn’t happen. I—”
“Do you want to risk it, Ylawes? Say the worst outcomes don’t happen—that’s a lot of downsides, and except for that one outcome, I don’t see any upside. Drop it.”
They stood in silence until Larr called out, asking if they had seen something. They began to walk after the others, and Ylawes felt the rain battering him like the guilty thoughts in his stomach.
“I feel so bad—”
“Yep.”
“And talking isn’t the answer?”
“Sometimes, it’s not.”
“I was raised all my life to be honest.”
“Sometimes, that means not talking, Ylawes. Sometimes, you live with your guilt.”
This was not a lesson Ylawes would have accepted in the Silver Swords a year ago. Today? He thought of the Consortium, of Trader Tilfem, and, well, of Falene. His head bowed. Dawil walked along, and neither one said a word.
“For what it’s worth, Ylawes, I’ve been prouder of you than not. This? This wasn’t even a huge misstep. Falene’s a big girl, and she can be an adult. We’re older. Don’t make it worse, I’m begging you. You do like Pekona, don’t you?”
“Oh, yes. Absolutely.”
“What about her? I can sort of see it, but I haven’t talked to her much.”
He sensed Dawil watching him, and Ylawes wondered if the Dwarf were testing him.
“Well…it’s how different she is. I don’t mean—foreign, I mean how she thinks and sometimes corrects me. I can talk to her because sometimes it feels like we’re both outsiders. And she’s good with a sword. I understand that. She’s honest and brave and—”
It sounds like Falene in many ways. Ylawes trailed off before he added.
“—I think in Pekona’s case, she understands making huge mistakes. Not that hers were her fault. She’s paid for her errors. I haven’t.”
He walked on until Dawil patted him on the back.
“Good. I’m happy for you, Ylawes. Mind what I said, alright?”
“Okay.”
 
——
 
Ylawes tried just once.
Just once, over dinner. He knew Dawil was watching him, and Pekona was worried, and he had a moment when Falene was checking his temperature.
“Hmm. You still are pale, but you’re more decent. Show me your eyes.”
She peered into his gaze and felt at his neck.
“Falene, what is this about?”
“It’s your vitals. I’m measuring how much your heart beats.”
“Why?”
She hesitated and wiped at her rain-covered spectacles. Homle was working his sock-drying pot, and both glanced at it longingly; everyone was in line.
“Well…I heard the Last Light of Baleros talking about it. I wanted to read more about, er, survival. Apparently, heartbeats, fluid in lungs, all indicate sickness.”
“Do you…know which signs indicate which?”
“Well, I’m certain I could intuit it! I am a Wistram [Mage], Ylawes, and I have a sharp, analytical mind—”
She blustered, avoiding his gaze, and the [Knight] grinned. That was Falene alright, and she caught his eye, reddened, then laughed. She put her head up and stared at the sky.
“Damn rain. Alright, fine. I’m doing my best. I suppose I can’t do much, but we must try.”
“Yeah. We must. Thank you, Falene. Truly.”
She smiled at him as she sat wearily on some stone coral. The rain pounded on, and Ylawes stared westward.
Something’s out there. Something worth all this. She spoke absently.
“Neither Dawil nor I blame you for this. If anything, I want to commend you for doing what you did, Ylawes. I know it matters greatly to you, House Byres’ reputation. We’ve been through worse. I can’t remember when, exactly. Facestealer or that time with the Armored Crawler. Remember when it was digging up our camp?”
“And we couldn’t break its armor. I remember.”
Hiding in their camp, trying to fight it off as it dug around them--Falene smiled.
“We didn’t have rookies back then. Now we’re the senior adventurers. We should act the part. That’s why I’d appreciate it if you didn’t reveal my deficiencies.”
He smiled.
“I’ll try. Falene, about your class—”
He glanced up and saw her stiffen slightly. Her eyes slid to Pekona, and Ylawes saw her glance at him. Just once, with such an expression of hurt in her eyes—then her spectacles flashed, and she rubbed at them with the hem of her robes.
“What about it?”
“—I just wondered what kind of mana Skills you had for your [Mana Well]. I know yours is a generic [Arcane Mana Well], isn’t it? Can you do more magic than when we first came here? How much, or is Homle’s sock-drying going to tire you each night?”
Ylawes saw Falene blink and relax ever-so-slightly. Then she scowled.
“Generic? I have a highly adaptive, highly universal—you must have been misremembering my lectures, Ylawes! For your information, I have [Mana Well: Weathertight Walls]. Quite odd how it sounds as if it’s an architectural Skill for magic…but I assure you it means my mana-drain is far lower! I’d like to generate more mana, but I’ve held onto far more mana than before! I’m just not inclined to use more!”
“Wait, you have more mana saved?”
Ylawes blinked at her, and Falene threw up her hands.
“Keeping you all dry is not a good use of magic! When I need to fire a [Lightning Bolt], you will thank me! And speaking of which, Master Homle, the fee for my magic is my socks will all be dried! All of them!”
 
——
 
He didn’t have the courage to say it. Dawil’s warning had sounded in his ears, and he’d seen how much it might hurt Falene and…
Ylawes confessed it to Pekona that night, and she sat there as water dripped on their heads from the tarp they’d spread out between coral rocks. It was still accumulating on the ground, and they had managed to put their tarp on a slope so mostly it didn’t run into their camp, but…
It was a better day in that they could set up the tents at all. But Pekona just folded her one arm as he sat there.
“I have done terrible things to Falene. And you.”
She kicked him. He deserved that. But her glower indicated that Pekona didn’t feel this apology was holding water. Unlike their tent, sadly.
“I told you to drop it. Falene made her peace; you can’t. You’re like…Larr.”
“Me? How?”
He was astonished, and she glowered.
“You can’t drop anything. You get obsessed. Just respect her and leave it alone! We talked.”
“You did? When?”
“The bathhouse. My feet hurt.”
That sounded like a segue, but it was really an invitation for him to help massage them. He did, and she tried, once more, to keep less water from running into the tent. Ylawes went on after a moment, and he heard her sigh, vexed.
“Pekona. I was genuinely enamored with you in Goisedall, and the fact that neither you nor I knew about Falene is—bad luck. Like how the Horns found the map to Albez.”
“…Are you talking about adventuring?”
She squinted at him, and his voice was plaintive.
“It’s the only thing I know! Listen, it’s not about thinking about what might have been because neither of us knew. It’s how fate played out, and…that’s that, Pekona. I don’t want to make this a….a rift between any of us. I realized Dawil’s right. I can’t bring this up with Falene. I want to talk to you about it, and if it changes things…but I was very happy when you and I found we liked each other. I’m just sorry for being a fool.”
She sat there, water pattering onto her head, and then smiled faintly. Not un-exasperatedly, but like someone who’d figured something out.
“You do a lot of being sorry. You’re the sorriest non-Drathian I’ve ever met. Even Dullahans don’t feel so guilty.”
He opened his mouth, and she shushed him with a finger.
“This is…funny, learning this relationship. I am going to be honest, Ylawes. I was happy, too, when we had our night. I was worried because Falene was upset. We talked. Now, it’s done. I’m happy. Content. I want to try this. But if you have regrets—”
He shook his head instantly.
“No, no, Dawil was right.”
She eyed him.
“Are you going to talk to Falene again? Because next time I’ll hit you with my sword. Sheathed.”
He bowed his head.
“I won’t, I swear. Dawil was right. We can agree on that, can’t we, Pekona? He was right, and we do not want to go down this dungeon. It’s a death-zone, and we’ll die.”
She blinked, then nodded.
“Dawil was right.”
“Dawil’s very right.”
“We can talk about it after, maybe. Just not…I understand why I need to drop it.”
“Yes.”
Not here, with misery so close for company, when it was so damn fresh and it could tear things apart. Not yet. Ylawes closed his eyes and hung his head.
Fool.
He was allowed to feel bad about it, though. Pekona saw him sitting there, a miserable [Knight] out of his armor, and she adjusted the tarp—and spilled a bunch of collected water onto them. They spluttered, and she grimaced, and glared down at her undershirt and muttered Drathian curses.
Ylawes stared at Pekona’s undershirt, which was suddenly semi-transparent. He hesitated, and she eyed him. He put his hands behind his back innocently.
“It’s pretty cold. And wet. And noisy, Pekona. I doubt either of us is getting to sleep easily tonight. What if…what if we try something else tonight?”
Her eyes flicked to him, then to their tentflaps.
“Something else? But we’re so close to the others—”
She bit her lip as he suggested something he’d heard of in the tales of yore and myth from Sage Todi. He thought it sounded fun. She asked what she was going to get out of it, and he floundered until she laughed and said they’d try her thing after that. Which sounded very exciting.
 
——
 
In the world of the many deep—and squishy—levels of sexual prowess, Ylawes and Pekona weren’t even Bronze-rank. But a single step into that domain was progress for the two…or would have been.
Because Pekona’s idea to cheer Ylawes up was an advanced technique that he assumed came from Drath until she dumped more water on his head. Said technique was not something she had experience with, but the concept, as Ylawes understood it, was her using her hands in the Man’s Shame.
“…Wait, that’s what you call it?”
“The Man’s Shame? Of course. That’s—er—well, yes. My father sat me down and told me about it. Sometimes a necessity, but—”
It was probably the most embarrassing talk he’d ever had in his life. Sometimes a man needed to relieve himself, and a hand—but Pekona doing it was a scandalous idea.
Titillating, even. A fascinating act of carnal intercourse that would have led the two to many conclusions about House Byres’ culture except that it never got that far.
Ylawes didn’t have a euphemistic name for his penis. It just sat there, rather small and shriveled up from the cold no matter what Pekona tried, and then he remembered another word in his lexicon he had not often thought of.
Impotence. He just kept thinking of Falene, his mistakes, or his father’s stark writing on the [Message] scroll, and after a few more minutes, Pekona hugged him, and he tried to apologize, and she told him it was fine and—
Well.
Somehow that did make him feel even worse that night.
And the rain continued.
 
——
 
Then they came to the river. Ylawes had forgotten all about the river.
The same body of water that could be tinged purple or swirl with interesting colors thanks to the dirt that ran through the New Lands and came off the northern foothills should have narrowed the further it was from its origin point.
But the rainwater had bloated it like a slug, and now it overflowed its banks, transforming from a useful resource and marker into an obstacle and a hazard.
“We have to cross it!”
“How, lad?”
Ylawes and Dawil had to shout over the torrent of water cascading down a waterfall that would have washed them all away if they stood in the center. Muddy, dark purple water swirled for what might have been fifty feet, and Ylawes could not tell how deep it ran.
“It’s suicide to cross it! We’re going to die!”
Infinitypear began to freak out. The Antinium had done well enough before due to the privation, and he’d forded the river when it was shallow enough to only go up to his knees while blindfolded and with Rasktooth encouraging him, but this—
Ylawes was inclined to agree with the Antinium. He turned his head.
“Does anyone know rivers well? Who here can swim?”
The answer was not encouraging. Every adventurer but Infinitypear and Rasktooth could swim, but Homle and a number of his [Miners] were just as freaked out by the river as Infinitypear.
“I’ve never even gone chest-deep in the water, Captain, and that was in a bath!”
He protested, and Farmer Petia snorted.
“You didn’t have a lake, Homle? I swam them plenty up north. I grew up near enough to Oswen, and you have to swim there. But I wouldn’t risk this river, Captain Ylawes. It’ll sweep us aside in a heartbeat!”
“There must be a way to ford it. We cannot stay here, Petia!”
They’d lose who knew how many days if they had to wait for the rains to subside and the river to go back to normal. Thus, the Silver Swords began to comb the river, north and south, trying to find a place to cross.
They were not the only ones. Ylawes saw no less than five caravans had halted, and people were trying everything to cross, from throwing stones attached to ropes and trying to anchor them to the other side to having a swimmer cross and help the others.
Futile. Ylawes had had the same thought, but Dawil pointed out the obvious.
“Even if we cross, Ylawes, the horses won’t! We have to find a shallow section—dead gods! Look at the current.”
It had just ripped a Drake through the waters. The swimmer was fifty feet downriver, and his entire caravan was hauling on the rope to get him out. Ylawes and Dawil charged over to heave the Drake out, and she was screaming.
“The rope nearly sawed me in half! I’ve lost all the scales on my stomach—this is insanity!”
No good that way. When Ylawes and Dawil rode north, they found Petia minding the camp. She was stabbing the air with her spear, practicing even tired as she was. Ylawes saw her put the spear up.
“Anith’s still up north, Captain. No good?”
“We just saw someone nearly get swept away downstream, Petia. I don’t think having you swim would work.”
Her face was grave, and she jerked her head at the silent members of the group.
“I agree, Captain. We just saw someone else go past.”
“Someone else? Can we get—”
He hadn’t seen anyone in the thrashing torrent, but she shook her head.
“No rope, Captain. And they were face-down. Drowned.”
Falene’s voice was quiet.
“Floating.”
Everyone looked at her, and she clarified.
“Bodies do not always float. I sensed a [Buoyancy] spell, but cast poorly. It kept them upright, but it might have led to them drowning because the balancing was off.”
A chill ran down Ylawes spine, and the bloated river took on a sinister cast. However, when Anith came riding back hard, he had good news.
“Captain! There’s a route across the river, only we have to hurry, and it’ll cost the earth! How much gold do we have?”
“Gold?”
 
——
 
Someone had created a bridge. It was such an obvious idea and good way to make money that Ylawes was surprised no one else had done it—until he supposed it wasn’t necessary outside of the rain.
What was more impressive? It wasn’t made of wood or stone, but magic.
Falene halted dead in her tracks when she saw it, eyes wide.
“Impossible. The amount of mana that must cost—!”
There had to be over two dozen caravans queued up to cross it already, and more were coming and lining up. Horses had to be guided up the ramp and across the bridge—which was only wide enough for two horses abreast—and over the raging waters.
Not for the faint-of-heart, especially because the bridge was slippery, light magic or not. Ylawes heard shouting from the front, and Anith hollered in his ear.
“This is where the drowned person came from! They fell!”
“The bridge is collecting water and slippery? Just add a friction spell!”
That outraged Falene again, and she began haranguing the construction of the bridge, which still looked good to Ylawes. It had railings, was a gentle slope; most [Light Bridges] were just a vertical sheet of magic or stairs at best. Even Falene couldn’t do better, and she blustered.
“Well, if I were making one like this, I could do better! Not having basic texturing to the light spell—argh!”
Someone had hit her with a staff. No, wait—a fishing rod? Falene whirled, and Ylawes heard a loud, outraged voice.
“Hah! Spoken like a [Mage]! Let’s see you make a damn [Light Bridge]! No? No!? That’s what I thought! You ponces from Wistram strutting about [Abacaxem’s Anal Retentive Friction Light Bridge] when you can’t even cast [Light]! We made this bridge, and if you don’t like it, you can make another or damn well sit here!”
The furious man raised his fishing pole for another blow, and Ylawes interposed himself between the man in a dripping, floppy hat and Falene.
“My friend didn’t mean any offense. Did you make this, sir?”
“I mean all the offense! Especially to a [Sorcerer], you brute!”
Falene screamed back, and the man drew himself up.
“That’s Sorcerer Leireit to you—oh, wait, you identified my class. Well…hah! Take that!”
He jabbed a finger at Falene, and Ylawes recognized the name.
“Sorcerer Leireit of First Landing?”
“Yes, and expeditioner to this damn magicless hellhole! Also, fisherman. I’ve had a haul in this weather! Want to cross the bridge? It’s a gold per person.”
“A gold per—”
“Hey, you don’t want to, be my guest. Enough people are lining up, and the damn wagons take forever to load and unload. Some fools are deconstructing them.”
Indeed, Leireit’s company had apparently set up the bridge days ago and were now collecting money by the bagful. Despite her outrage, Falene was intensely curious.
“How did you make the [Light Bridge] without mana, Sorcerer Leireit? I’m Falene, a Gold-rank mage. I gained a class due to the mana drain in part, and I couldn’t fathom making this!”
“Hm? What’s that? Water in my ears. Can’t hear a thing from a noisy [Mage].”
Falene took a breath.
“Sorcerer Leireit, sir—”
“Oh, that’s who was talking to me! Well, it comes from having two other [Sorcerers] and magic-users in my party. My apprentice, a buddy of mine—damn mana drain!”
Leireit was waving his pole across the river, and he had a bucket of fish. He jerked his thumb at the [Light Bridge].
“The rest? [Sorcerer] magic. I gave myself the worst nosebleed of my life forcing the magic to get it up. Nearly put myself in bed two whole days, but I’m awake now. The rest are sleeping.”
“You…forced it?”
“Sure. [Force Magic]. Concentrate hard enough and you’ll get it done.”
“That’s—not how—”
“Sure it’s not, for you. I’ve heard it all my life. ‘Magic doesn’t work like this, magic only does this.’ Well, this is a good proving ground to see whose magic works, Miss. No offense, but I still have a headache!”
Leireit was glaring, and Ylawes was blinking in astonishment. He couldn’t help but think—now there’s a real magic-user. Without disparaging his teammate…
But Falene just ducked her head.
“I am extremely humbled, Sorcerer! Truly! I don’t think even a [Grand Magus] of Wistram could do this! How are you upkeeping the mana?”
Leireit was slightly mollified. He handed her a wiggling fish.
“Here, have a catfish. You’re not so bad after all. Most [Mages] who come by, hah, well, it’s insults and ‘please let me use your bridge, inferior magic-man!’ Upkeep of mana? No such thing. We just slapped the spell down. We’re making sure it doesn’t collapse, but it’ll hold another day before it gets dicey.”
Falene’s jaw dropped.
“You aren’t even upkeeping—?”
He winked at her.
“[Place And Forget Magic]. Now, look. We’re not lowering prices unless you can sell us either fishing supplies or charcoal or coal—we’re trying to save mana on fires, and we didn’t think to bring any supplies. You’ve got a day and a half before we’ll cross and I’ll take down this spell, if the rain doesn’t let up first. That’s called [Absorb Mana], Miss Falene. They don’t teach you that at Wistram either? Well, well.”
 
——
 
To be fair, Leireit was one of Izril’s finest spellcasters. He was known to be over Level 40.
And the catfish tasted great. Ylawes got a piece of it as they tried to work out what to do.
“Even if we could afford the bridge, it’s too packed. I say we keep heading south and cross from there if we see anything. The river has to narrow.”
“Unless it gets bigger as it reaches the sea. Doesn’t it get small where it starts?”
The argument between the Silver Swords made them realize no one knew if a river got wider or smaller at its start or end. Ylawes finally broke the tie by flipping a coin into the river. Everyone watched it sink, and Ylawes rubbed at his face.
“Infinitypear? You’re an [Adventurer]. If there’s any class with luck, it’s yours. Mine seems to be not working. Flip a coin and tell us which way.”
The Antinium flipped a coin, whispered with Rasktooth, and announced.
“South, Captain!”
South they went.
 
——
 
There was a point where the river seemed to narrow after splitting in twain. Both sections of the river picked up more water and became mightily torrential, only doubled, but for one brief section, it seemed to Ylawes like the split in the river was the narrowest.
Others clearly agreed; he saw an object floating across the river as he dismounted from his horse.
“What the—”
A wagon was floating over the river! It was swept downriver fast, but the team hauling it got it to the other side, pulled it onto the bank, and rolled it up as far as they could, preparing to do it again.
What a risky maneuver! However, one of the two figures ashore seemed confident they could repeat it. They spun, and a lantern illuminated Ylawes.
“Who goes there!”
A deep, echoing voice—Ylawes raised his hand.
“Friends! We’re looking to cross! I’m a [Knight]!”
“A knight? Bah, landfolk. Means nothing to us. If you want trouble, we’ll have none here! We’re crossing. Into the water, lass.”
Someone dove into the water and swam. Ylawes cried out.
“No, it’s too fast—”
He saw the figure move downriver, then halt and begin swimming across the river without being swept away. The man standing there grinned.
“She’s got [Feel No Current]. This river’s naught a hazard to her that way. Roots or the like moving through the river, or monsters—aye. Fording here? Smarter than the others.”
“Are you a Drowned Man?”
“What gave it away, the voice?”
The figure was sardonic, but he relaxed as he saw Dawil riding over. He pushed back a hood, revealing a fin for an ear and scales. He was half-fish! His teeth were pointed as he raised an arm with fins on it.
“Aye. I’m with Joass’ Stalwart Explorers over yonder.”
“A Drowned group?”
“No, Drake. We hired at Zeres. Not all of us went to Nombernaught or hold it high in our esteems. Lucky for Joass’ city they took us; no one else has a whit of watercraft. They’d have never gotten across but for me insistin’ on good wagons!”
They’d caulked and floated the wagon, which meant sealing it so it was watertight, removed the wheels, and hauled it across the river after some of them had forded. The Drowned Folk could swim the river and had reckoned it was doable. The Drowned Man nodded.
“Name’s Brithine. I could talk to our leader for you, but I doubt he’ll want to stay and put the ropes back unless you can pay well. I think it’s not wise to linger; storms attract big water monsters coming up river at times, and a flash flood if the rain gets worse…still, this is the spot.”
“Why is it the spot, sir?”
The Drowned Man gave him a look.
“Because it’s a braid in the river. Crossing’s always easier here. Look, if you’ve no experience, don’t try to cross the river alone. I’d stay, but they’ll drown themselves without me.”
“We might manage it. Thank you, sir.”
The Drowned Man nodded and leapt in the water. He practically glided to the other side, and Ylawes saw the figures turned with one of their wagons all facing him. They had lanterns that were apparently waterproof, and they had been shining at him and Dawil, he realized.
“Probably wondering if we were holding him up. Damn, but they have good gear! Comes of working with water-specialists.”
Dawil tugged at his sopping wet beard, then turned to Ylawes.
“Reckon we should try?”
“I don’t want to sit here if we’ve got pursuers, and we’re wasting food if we camp for days, Dawil. We have to try.”
Thus began the ugliest battle with nature of Ylawes’ life.
 
——
 
It wasn’t so much the fording of the river, it was the preparations to do so. No one would enter the water without a way back out; that was the adventurer’s ethos. Seeing another body and bits of a wagon being torn down the far split in the river made them aware of the risks.
Their goal was just to reach the island in the middle of the river first, the place where the river began to split. In the harsh rains and torrent of waters, it resembled a muddy spear of land that Ylawes was amazed hadn’t been washed away in minutes. But the ground was backed by a thick piece of stone that split the waters, and he could see that yellow grass, sodden and glistening in the rain, but sturdy enough. A twenty-foot span across; wide enough to make it to the other side from.
If, of course, you got to the island in the first place. The Silver Swords were shouting, trying to figure out the attempt.
“The horses have to swim. But what I think is they’ll manage it. The trick is getting our packs and us across! Half go, half stay! We use ropes and secure each person going—even the horses!”
“Can we haul a horse?”
Dawil flexed his arms and turned to Ylawes.
“Between you, me, Dasha, and Homle’s folk, I reckon we can.”
“We’re not weak either, Master Dawil! But the ropes had better be sturdy!”
“We’ve got the ones for the tents—we can braid them through the horse’s saddle!”
“But how do we get across?”
They were all shouting as the rain pelted them. Rasktooth was meditating under a tarp with Infinitypear, and for once, Ylawes begrudged the damn Cave Goblin. Falene was pointing at the water.
“I might not be able to do what Leireit did, but I might be able to enchant us against the water! [Resist Water] on one person will let them mitigate the drag—let me consult my spells!”
“No hope of freezing or blocking the water, Pointy?”
Dawil bit his beard, and she shot him a glance.
“What do you think? There has to be a thousand tonnes of water flowing a minute! Blocking a river is the kind of thing only legends can do, like the Mage of Rivers himself! And even he’d find a more elegant solution…getting the ropes across. Hm! Let me try to levitate them!”
That was a good idea. Falene tried to use her basic telekinesis to bring a rope over to the other side, but she’d forgotten her physics class.
The rope might not be that heavy, but the further it went from her, the harder it got to control.
The river was only twenty feet across. But twenty feet of sopping wet rope? Still doable, but it was the wind and rain that kept ‘hitting’ the rope and breaking her grip on the telekinesis spell.
She failed three times before Larr, who’d been watching, snarled.
“Argh, I’m an idiot! That Nailren’s not the only Gnoll with a brain! Here!”
He strung his bow, drew an arrow, cursing his wet bowstring and bow, and fired. The arrow hit the middle riverbank, and the rope it was attached to went taut. Ylawes turned to Larr, and the Gnoll gave him a grin. Then frowned.
“It won’t hold any weight I’d trust, though, Captain.”
“My turn! [Arrow of Gravity]!”
Falene pointed her staff and missed the arrow with the magic one she’d conjured. On her second attempt, she grunted.
“There. I think it worked. How does Ceria hit things so well?”
Larr heaved on the rope.
“Eh…I don’t like it. It moves a bit, but it’d support someone light.”
“I’ll do—”
“I’ll do it! I can swim, and I’m lightest!”
Insill was up next. He tied himself to the rope by hooking into it with a little loop on his belt after handing his gear off, then dove into the water. Everyone watched as his head bobbed up, and Larr and Dasha held the rope taut.
“Whoa, it’s strong!”
“Hurry, Insill! I think the rope’s slipping!”
Falene cast [Arrow of Gravity] again, and Insill struggled across the current. He finally heaved himself across the riverbank and lay there, panting.
“Okay…! It’s hard, but we can do it! We can pull people across!”
Then Ylawes realized they should have sent Insill with another rope so the Drake could do just that. He groaned before Dasha shouted.
“Insill! We’re going to get a tent pole across with some more rope! I want you to pound it into the ground—then we’ll prop this line up! Like laundry! The second rope we’ll use to pull people, got it?”
“…What? I can’t hear you!”
However, once Dasha got her idea across, it worked! The anchoring post on both sides meant someone could cling to the rope while having another pulling them. Ylawes was quite impressed.
“That’s a great idea, Dasha!”
“Thanks! I used to have to do laundry all the time back home, and I thought, eh, it’s sturdier than holding the rope like idiots, right? Must be my Dwarven architectural heritage, Captain!”
She puffed out her chest, and even Dawil let that one go. They began transferring people across as Ylawes tied the packs to the suspended rope so they could be slid across if one side lifted their end of the rope higher.
A primitive zipline. Actually, that made Ylawes think they could just use it to go across like he’d heard of Pallass, but the tent poles were far too weak to take that much weight. Swimming it was.
It was hard at first. Dasha was next to test her idea, and she went underwater six times before Insill managed to haul her onto the grass. The more bodies they transferred, the easier; Anith swam well, and Larr went across fast with three hands pulling.
It was the non-swimmers who worried Ylawes, like Homle and Infinitypear. And the horses. With their supplies halfway across, he saw the group on the middle bank split again; Vuliel Drae was setting up another rope-chain to the far bank, while Petia hauled on the ropes.
“Horses. I’ll go with them. They’ll swim, and we’ll lock them into the ropes with their saddle. Unless they panic, they’ll go across.”
“What if we tried calming them using blinders?”
Ylawes was familiar with the practice to calm horses when they were under stress, but Petia, a [Farmer], was also familiar, and she gestured at the water.
“I reckon that’d work if it were a road, but with blinders on, all they get to focus on is the water, Captain. We could cover their eyes fully, but they might panic all the worse, and d’you want them less aware in the water?”
“Fair point, Petia. I just hope they can get through the river at all.”
She shrugged, wiping water from her face.
“We have to try. Let’s test it.”
The first horse was not happy about being driven into the water, and Falene had to cast [Calm] on it. But when it did enter the water, Ylawes was relieved to see it could swim—Dawil went in with it, paddling and shoving it along, panting.
They got six horses across like that as the Dwarf pulled himself back and forth, using his arms and the suspended ropes to avoid swimming. But on the sixth horse, an eddy or something in the water had it panic. It went underwater, and the cursing Dwarf hauled on it.
“I’ve got it! I’ve g—”
He went under too, and Ylawes shouted.
“Dawil!”
He nearly charged into the river before Falene screamed.
“Ylawes, the ropes!”
The pole was nearly being yanked out of the ground from the horse. He had to seize it, and he saw Dawil’s head appear in the water—downstream. He looked dizzy and slipped back under.
“Dawil! Someone get—”
“[Incredible Leap]!”
Insill jumped into the water after Dawil and dove into the depths. Ylawes saw him come up, and Dawil flailed as the two managed to get onto the shore at last—fifty feet downriver. The horse was finally pulled to the riverbank, and Falene wiped at her brows.
“Is Dawil alright?”
He was. The Dwarf shouted at them.
“Damn horse kicked me in the head! I’ll just—sit a moment.”
Ylawes thought he was okay. But that meant the horses needed another guide.
Insill offered to do it. He jumped twenty feet straight across the river, and when everyone stared at him, he blushed.
“I forgot I had the Skill. Turns out I can clear twenty feet. Like—ulp!”
He forgot his Skill had a cooldown and landed in the water, then had to be hauled out, but it meant securing the other side of the river would be easier.
Once they got there.
“I’ll take the horses, Ylawes. We need you on this side.”
“But if they panic—”
“I’ll hit them with [Calm]. [Lion’s Strength]. This will take most of my mana reserves, so let’s get it done.”
Falene gritted her teeth. She hauled herself into the water and gasped, but she began escorting horses over fast. Possibly, her death-glare had the animals moving as fast as her [Calm] spells. That left Ylawes with the last of his problems.
Infinitypear, Rasktooth, Homle, and Pekona.
Each one needed help, and he was worried about Homle and Infinitypear the most; you had to tread water even if you were being pulled ashore. It wouldn’t be that hard, but there were things in the muddy water, and so keeping your head up and together was crucial.
“I’m going to go with each of you across the river, understand? We’ll swim together. If you’re going under, shout and I’ll help you, but you have to swim.”
“I shall drown. I shall drown. I shall drown—”
Infinitypear was quaking with terror, and Homle was dead white.
“I can’t swim a foot, sir!”
“We’ll pull you, Homle! Just kick your feet and—”
Ylawes had to show the man how to tread water, and he went in with Pekona to demonstrate to Homle how it was done.
It was colder than Ylawes thought. And even with his armor taken off and having been shipped to the other side—he forced his body to swim as he felt ropes dragging at the little rope harness they’d made. Pekona was kicking and swimming with her one good arm next to him.
It felt like way longer than a minute to get to the other side, and Ylawes stumbled out onto the riverbank.
“There. See? No problem. Pekona?”
“Good. I used to swim all the time. Bit harder.”
She gasped, and Ylawes turned.
“How did you do six horses, Dawil? Falene?”
Both Gold-rankers gave him a thumbs up as Ylawes realized they were doing all they could. Gold-rankers. He steadied himself.
“Three more trips then I’ll do the horses.”
It got harder after that. Not with Rasktooth; the Cave Goblin had been eying the water and elected to do what no one else could: he shimmied across the wet ropes and just crawled along the entire river’s length, hanging upside-down and using just his arms while his legs draped on the rope for support.
He was light enough to do that. Homle and Infinitypear certainly weren’t.
The [Miner] was bad.
He thrashed the moment he hit the water, and Ylawes had to half-drag, half shove Homle around. Twice, Homle’s head went under, and he panicked. The second time, he uppercut Ylawes so hard the [Knight]’s head rang.
That did make Homle stop, and they got him ashore where he apologized and curled up on the ground. Ylawes rubbed at his jaw.
“Infinitypear.”
“I will die, Captain. I cannot swim. Antinium cannot swim. We sink.”
“I—what?”
Infinitypear pointed at his body.
“We do not have enough skin and fat, Captain. We are too dense. We sink to the bottom even if we try to tread water.”
Ylawes hadn’t known that. He cursed.
“It won’t be long, Infinitypear. We’ll have Falene cast [Globe of Air]—that’s an adventurer’s spell. And we’ll have you across in a minute or less. You can hold your breath for a minute, right?”
“I will try.”
However, Falene just shouted back at Ylawes.
“[Globe of Air] is too complex, Ylawes!”
“What?”
“It’s Tier 3! I can’t amend it lower—it’s meant for long underwater expeditions! Can you keep his head up?”
“Brother, we pull you fast!”
Rasktooth was shouting encouragement as Infinitypear and Ylawes locked themselves into the ropes. Infinitypear was whispering.
“I am an adventurer, I am an adventurer—”
He went still when Ylawes put his hand on his shoulder.
“I will not run, Captain. I must go with everyone, and there is nowhere to go.”
“Not that, Infinitypear. If you need a moment…you’re going to make it, understand?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You’re being brave, Infinitypear. Braver than I’d be if I couldn’t swim. I’m going to be right there with you, and I’ll help you keep your head above water, got it?”
The Antinium looked at him with such trust that Ylawes felt his stomach tightening.
They entered the water. Infinitypear began thrashing, trying to swim, and Ylawes?
Sank.
 
——
 
Under the water, pushing up as he kicked as hard as he could, keeping the Antinium bobbing, and he was trying not to sink! Being pulled along as something hit his face—a root? Lungs straining, feeling the Antinium dipping, kicking harder—wanting to breathe, unable to see—
Ylawes gasped for air as they finally made it. Infinitypear coughed out water and rolled onto the ground as everyone shouted and cheered. Dawil yelled.
“Lad, you idiot! You had us scared!”
“I had…to keep his head…up. Okay. We made it. See, Infinitypear?”
“Yes. I only panic-excreted a bit, Captain.”
Ylawes lay on his back until he remembered two things:
First, they were only halfway across.
Second, he’d forgotten to yank the tent pole up and get the rope.
 
——
 
The crossing of the river took all day, and Ylawes was so dog-tired from hauling the horses across and helping Homle, Pekona, and securing the packs that he just lay there as Falene and Infinitypear made the final trip. She cast some spell that had him bobbing like a piece of driftwood, and when they made it, Insill jumped the river with the tent pole and ropes.
Everyone sat there in the rain, too exhausted to rise, until Petia spoke.
“Alright. We lost two saddlebags in the river. I think provisions and something else. Where do we camp?”
Ylawes swore he heard someone sob. Dasha? He wanted to cry too.
I hate this damn place. Curse the rain, curse the Merchant’s Guild, curse everything—
They were lost, not having any idea where they were on the other side of the river, and so wet and tired that Ylawes didn’t know if they’d make it to a campsite for the night. He lay there a second, then something split the sound of the rushing river.
“Strke! Ná! Strke! Strke!”
“What’s that?”
His head rose, and Dawil, panting and wringing out his beard, glanced up.
“It’s coming from upriver. Sounds like…shouting?”
“Or a monster. I can’t tell. I’m out of mana.”
“Everyone up—up! Saddle those horses, and get them loaded!”
Ylawes hauled himself to his feet. His body hurt from using different muscles, but he got everyone on their feet. The unknown danger was getting louder, and he tapped into his adventurer’s reserves.
It was getting even louder.
“Strke! Strke!”
It was definitely voices. But…from where? Ylawes gazed along both banks. The Silver Swords had backed away from the riverbank, but they saw nothing in the driving rain—until Insill pointed.
“Captain! Look! On the river! Are those—half-Giants?”
Ylawes whirled, and the last thing he expected to see was a light on the river coming up the current. But that’s exactly what was happening. There were huge, hunched figures glowing in the storm.
“They’re giant.”
“Back up—back up—Homle, get everyone mounted! Ready to move!”
Larr was tracking the strange apparitions with a nocked Mithril arrow. He squinted and then growled.
“Those’re no damn half-Giants. That’s a boat. But I’ve never seen the like—”
Ylawes squinted too, and the apparitions that seemed to loom unnaturally tall resolved themselves as he realized it was an optical trick.
A boat was coming up the river, indeed. It was long and narrow, and a lantern was illuminating the water ahead. It was the backlight which cast the figures paddling uphill into the air and made them appear so huge.
But even when they drew closer, he didn’t understand quite what he was seeing. Falene lifted her staff, cast a spell, and the odd shouting of words he didn’t recognize stopped. There was a call of surprise, and he saw the strangers at the same time as they saw him.
The first thought Ylawes had was that they might be [Knights]. They had enough metal on them for all but a [Knight], but none of them had plate armor. Instead, it was scaled armor, and he saw the glint of steel by their sides. But it was the helmets which threw him.
That’s not an Izrilian design. Nor one I know from Chandrar.
It was a long noseguard with no visor to raise or lower, and a guard that encircled the eyes. The helmets were largely conical, but—he glanced at two of the figures he’d taken for Minotaurs next.
Horns on the helmets? They resembled a Minotaur’s horns, but were clearly fake. Between that and the odd chanting, he was stumped until Dawil breathed.
“Grandfathers. That has to be—lower your weapons, everyone! Hey! Heeeey! Are you from Cenidau?”
There was a pause as the narrow boat heading down the river slowed, then Ylawes saw long oars rising and dipping, and the boat heaved itself up another pace in the river. Dawil kept shouting.
“[Shieldsons]? [Shieldmaidens]? I’m from Deríthal-Vel!”
Pekona started.
“Cenidau? I know them!”
Ylawes had almost no idea who they were talking about. Even Falene blinked.
“Cenidau? It’s the most northern kingdom in Terandria! You barely see them in the south, let alone—! How far did they come? And are they mad? They’re sailing up the river in a storm!”
“Yah, look pretty fast. Not tipping one bit.”
Rasktooth observed. It was true; the long canoe, or whatever the craft was, was advancing with each stroke of the oars. It was because the prow was so narrow; the river mostly slipped by, and now there was a voice.
“Dwarves?”
“Just one! Adventurers!”
“Hah. We’re headed south. Make way!”
They were halfway past the Silver Swords, and Ylawes saw the helmeted warriors straining with the oars, heaving as one to haul their boat past them.
“They’ve got to be mad. What’re they going to do with their boat when they’re done? The river runs only one way; how’d they even get it north?”
Larr was incredulous. Ylawes didn’t know, but these strangers had clearly taken the river south and were benefitting from the rains in no uncertain terms.
They were almost past the Silver Swords when Pekona cupped her hand to her mouth and shouted.
“Ey! 向北方问好!”
That elicited a response. There was a surprised shout, and the armored figures’ heads turned. One shouted.
“…Drath?”
“Yes! Greetings to the North!”
Pekona wanted to make a gesture with her hands, but she could only do half of it. She bowed, and the strange warriors of Cenidau slowed. Ylawes heard muffled voices, then another shout.
“We wish to speak! Will you allow us landing?”
Dawil and Pekona turned to him with everyone else, and Ylawes didn’t know what to say.
“Er, go ahead!”
At his words, the boat turned. It moved swiftly for the banks where the Silver Swords stood, and he saw it run onto the shore. Armored boots splashed into the water, and figures grunted. He saw the first two warriors dragging the longboat or whatever it was further onto shore, then looping something over their shoulders.
Ropes? No, straps. Then the others leapt out, and they were hauling the boat up—
They walked with it straight onto land, then dropped their craft onto the ground and strode forwards. It was such a practiced maneuver that they were ashore before the Silver Swords could blink. Another voice called out, female instead of male this time.
“We sail from Cenidau’s north! Curiosity takes us—how does a Dwarf of Deríthal-vel and a Drathian come to the same place? Some expedition for the New Lands?”
“Adventurers.”
Dawil stepped forwards, and Ylawes saw fourteen figures of varying heights, armored and carrying weapons.
Lots of weapons. Long, one-side axes he’d never seen before, throwing hatchets, a short spear on one warrior’s back, and shields. They were painted wood rimmed with metal and seemed flimsy to Ylawes, but aside from that, he’d have called this group well-armed [Mercenaries] but for their strangeness.
Which is what they were, right? Falene was whispering to Ylawes.
“Cenidau are northfolk, Ylawes. They’re usually warriors for hire or fishers if they go anywhere. Cenidau’s no peaceful kingdom; they fight and war. Taimaguros is one of the big empires up north, and Cenidau’ve lost two wars against the Dominion, but they’re prideful and used to frozen terrain. They have very picky cultures—”
“Falene. Shut up.”
Dawil growled at her, and she fell silent. Ylawes strode forward, hand outstretched.
“I’m Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords. We are adventurers. Gold-rankers. We’ve been exploring the New Lands and just crossed the river. We apologize if we’ve interrupted you.”
A huge man as tall as Ylawes strode forwards and clasped Ylawes’ hand before drawing his grip upwards until it was vertical. He bumped into Ylawes’ chest, hard, but it didn’t feel like an attack.
“No apologies. The river’s fast. We’ll be forty leagues south before night takes us. Gold-rankers. How’d you cross the river?”
“Ropes.”
“Ropes? You swam that?”
A female voice as one of the Cenidau warriors jerked a thumb over her shoulder. She laughed when Dasha nodded, which made the Dwarf flush.
“Hey, not all of us have fancy ships!”
The female warrior barked back, mouth grinning from below that odd helmet.
“Don’t take offense, Dwarf. Respect. It’s a stupid idea to cross a river in a storm.”
“Thanks? Is she insulting us or complimenting us?”
Dasha turned to her team, and the woman grinned.
“Both. So. Are we talking, trading, or dying?”
Ylawes felt his neck prickle as the man who’d stepped back regarded him. The warriors didn’t seem to be reaching for their blades, but they stared at him. He coughed.
“…Talking?”
“Good. Just checking. Hah! It’s a threat here!”
One of the other warriors buffeted the woman across the shoulder.
“One day your tongue’ll get us all killed, Styrvi.”
“Not today. So, let’s talk. What of? It’s wet, and I’m hungry.”
Styrvi folded her arms, impatient. Ylawes felt like he was completely on the wrong foot. He glanced at Dawil, and the Dwarf tugged at his beard, appearing mystified. He hadn’t claimed to travel much in Terandria, and clearly, he only knew Cenidau vaguely.
“Er, what’s good to talk, friends? The weather? The river’s halted all traffic. What’ve you seen?”
The Cenidau folk rumbled, and one of them spat.
“I’m waiting in the boat. Wake me when we’re done.”
He stomped over to the boat and threw himself into it, putting his feet up on the seats. Dawil bit his lip, but Pekona burst in breathlessly.
“Warriors, have you slain a Landshark? We’ve killed one and seen a migration of glowing bugs. And giant snails!”
The warriors turned to her, and the tall one grinned.
“The shark-things? Not yet. Too many to fight, eh? Snails? We have seen their like crossing the river. Strangest sights. We hauled eight nets of fish one night on the river. Such a gathering—each net filled with fish at least this long!”
He held out a hand to his other elbow. Larr made an incredulous noise, and the man grinned wider.
“Levels leave me if I lie. A northman’s vow on it, Gnoll. What else?”
“Well…we saw the Plain’s Eye tribe entering the New Lands a few days east of here.”
Ylawes faltered, but Pekona was peering at him, and there was a weird cadence to how they were talking. The warriors glanced at each other. Another man called out.
“Some interest. We met a strange group of Drakes in the hills north of here. Singing. Friendliest of this land so far.”
“Singing Drakes? Those have to be Yoldenites.”
Dawil snorted, then tilted his head.
“Aye, let me try, then. Sounds like we’re doing some kind of custom we don’t know, friends. Would you say that seeing the moon crack is worth the talk?”
The Cenidau warriors looked at each other, and one of the warriors yanked off her helmet and revealed blond braids and a scowl.
“Do you think we’ve all lost our eyes, Dwarf? How’s that your news to share? What should I say? It’s raining?”
Laughter from the group, and Dawil threw up his hands.
“Argh, I’m trying!”
“Hold on.”
Falene thrust a hand up and tapped her lips. She seemed interested by this intellectual diversion, probably since it was the first she’d had in a month. She pointed up, and Ylawes couldn’t see the cracked green moon, but the half-Elf’s eyes glittered.
“Dawil’s right. That’s our news to share. Because the moon cracked when the Goblin King emerged. Did you know of that? And even if you did—it’s still our news, because the Goblin King emerged in a place we know. The Wandering Inn, Liscor. The moon cracking might have something to do with our friends too.”
The warriors recoiled when she mentioned the Goblin King with cries of alarm, which told Ylawes they hadn’t any news he’d emerged. Then they began scoffing.
“I’ll fill my helmet with your drinks for those lies, half-Elf!”
“Not lies, truth! We were with the Plain’s Eye tribe, where we had access to scrying spells. We were all at The Wandering Inn for months; we know the [Innkeeper]. That’s where the Goblin King emerged.”
There were barks of disbelief, questions, and their leader held out a hand. He gazed at Falene.
“Is he gathering an army?”
“He’s dead. There was Goblin Lord—also dead—some kind of Draconic Titan, and Dragons. It’s a story longer than we can tell, friends, and I’m damn wet. But we’d be happy to furnish you with the tale.”
Dawil offered. The Cenidau warriors glanced at each other, and the one resting in their boat sat up.
“We’re getting no drier, and there’s nothing else to be seen this far. Camp, Thker?”
The tall man mulled it over.
“So be it. Silver Swords, we’ll camp with you and share our fires and stocks a night if you’ll tell us what you know. Have we a deal?”
He held out his hand again, and Ylawes hesitated.
They didn’t even know this group. Then again, Pekona and Dawil didn’t seem to regard their nation as dangerous—but it was a large nation. Then again then again—
“Do you know anywhere dry around here?”
“No.”
Ylawes’ face fell, but the man called Thker pointed westwards.
“We saw some hills that way. Evor.”
“[Locate Shelter]. Aye, that way. Three miles. Good fortune. Let’s march. You coming?”
They trooped back to their boat and heaved it up with those curious straps. It hung between them as they turned and began to march. Ylawes eyed his team. They had no notion of where to go, and the word ‘shelter’ had Ylawes imagining somewhere they could hang a tarp to be dry without Falene’s magic.
She didn’t even have enough mana for a fire spell, he bet. So after a second, he motioned to his party.
“Let’s go.”
 
——
 
The company of Cenidau’s warriors was at first more novelty that kept one’s mind from the harsh trekking than anything else.
After all, this was no fit moment for conversing. The rain was coming down so hard that no one could hear a thing.
If they’d had to go more than an hour in this, Ylawes thought his group might revolt because it was a miserable trek in the rain, and they were exhausted.
However, three miles? That was doable.
Shelter pushed them on, and the sight of the odd northfolk carrying a literal boat between them made one’s burdens seem a bit less arduous. Certainly, Ylawes was watching the armored men and women out of the corner of his eye and paying more attention to that than his aches and pains.
He didn’t know if he could trust them, and perhaps the same was true of them. He heard low murmurs from them as the two groups moved towards said hills, which were not the largest…but to Ylawes’ gratification, were stony! Tall bluffs the size of Invrisil’s buildings, thick and squat, overlooking a flooded lake that might be fed from tributaries that led from the river. However, the gravelly rocks leading up to the hills were well above the water line and also clearly the product of erosion as the hill fell to pieces. Hollowed out by the sea currents long ago. Which meant a cave; Ylawes saw the huge hollow opening, and his spirits lifted at once.
The moment Evor saw it, he grunted.
“Large enough for two hundred with ease.”
“Windy. Open as a Giant’s asshole.”
One of the women put in. Ylawes stared at her as chuckles arose, and Evor nodded.
“Better than searching elsewhere. Here we camp. With guests, ‘twill be good enough.”
So saying, he produced something from his hip: a warhorn, then blew it. The long, echoing note had Ylawes reaching for his sword hilt. He saw a glint of eyes from one of the shorter warriors’ helmets.
“Twitchy, [Knight]. Think we’ll gut you in your sleep?”
“I apologize. We’ve had some danger on the road. If we’re all people of honor, I have nothing to fear.”
Ylawes let go of his sword hilt, and she tilted her head.
“Aye. Fair enough. [Knights] sound like that the world over, it seems. Well, let’s set the camp up. You take that side of the cave, we this?”
The Cenidau folk were wildly outnumbered by Ylawes’ group, but he didn’t argue. Half the cave would do.
“Everyone, get inside. We’ll need firewood…damn. Let’s figure it out. Dry off, first, and we’ll break out rations.”
They didn’t have anything to burn aside from the tent poles, which were a bit beat up from their river-crossing, but that would mean wasting their last tents…at least it wasn’t an issue tonight. The problem was that this particular area wasn’t the most lush in trees; the New Lands weren’t in general, and aside from the coral-wood, Ylawes couldn’t make out any forests in the dark.
The rest of his party were as tired as he was, and Farmer Petia had to kick people up as they trooped in and tried to just sit. Some of the colonists moaned at her.
“Hey, move it.”
Some of the colonists moaned at her.
“Petia, dead gods damn it—”
“We need to organize. Sleep along the walls, unless you want everyone to step on you?”
There was a gust, and the rain sleeted inwards into the cave, and everyone groaned; it was not so deep you’d avoid the rain if the winds came against the cave wrong.
“The far wall. We might need to set up tents after all, just to keep dry. Someone help me put a tarp over there.”
“For what?”
“Changing clothes, Yellat-brains.”
“Oh.”
Ylawes was grateful for her help; he was investigating their food stocks, but their saddlebags were a jumble, and fire was his big concern. However, one look at Falene told him it was going to be flint and tinder.
Her face was waxy, and Dawil had strapped her to his pony as he helped her slide off.
“Our half-Elf’s all tapped, lad. Let’s get some food in her before she turns into a leaf or some such.”
“I’ll turn your beard into leaves, Dawil. Just you wait. Some food wouldn’t go amiss, though.”
Everyone turned to Rasktooth, who was one of the better [Cooks]. He scratched at his belly, dubious.
“Eh…we get fire? I not see much food. So…rations. Where our bags? There some nice bread that not getting any drier.”
It was only a bit stale, and the rain would turn it moldy in another day if it wasn’t already. Ylawes’ stomach rumbled only for Petia to call out.
“Lost it in the river.”
A groan. Larr looked like a wet furball, but he gestured unwillingly to the cave entrance.
“I could see if there’s anything in the lakes worth shooting, Captain.”
“Don’t do that.”
All three Gold-rankers replied instantly. Ylawes rubbed at his face.
“When it’s raining, water monsters are in their element and often hunting. We don’t know what’s down there, Larr. Let’s just have rations. Rasktooth, start portioning things out. And, uh, we should talk to our new friends after a meal…”
He’d almost forgotten the Cenidau warriors, hungry as he was. The fourteen warriors were, to his surprise, not even in the cave yet. They’d dumped their boat at the cave’s entrance, where it was actually an obstacle to entering or exiting. And as he turned his head, they came back in, arms full of…
Rocks. They dumped them in the center of the cave and began kicking them around. Fourteen arms of rocks made a rather large circle they built up—a firepit.
“Huh. We could share a fire. Er, excuse me—”
Evor glanced over as more warriors trooped in, this time bearing a second load of resources. Wood, now.
Proper wood, clearly from trees. And wet.
Sopping, really. Ylawes’ heart sank. He might not have the most bushcraft experience, but the rains meant, without firewood, they’d have a hell of a time lighting the fire. And it’d be far too wet to burn properly. Even so, he trudged over.
“We can help chop some wood, though our [Mage] is out of mana.”
Evor glanced at him and nodded as Thker squatted around the fire, tossing a sack of something heavy down. He had a smaller bag at his side—some treated hide, glossy and neatly-stitched up. Evor jerked a thumb.
“There’s a copse that way. Follow the others. We’ll see to the fire.”
“Sure. Dawil, Dasha, Larr—Homle, some of your [Miners], let’s get some wood. We might need a lot.”
Wet wood did not burn well, and Ylawes reckoned they’d be fine if everyone got a big armful, but the groaning group strode out of the cave and into the rain. Ylawes could barely see anything, even the lake below.
“Where’s the trees?”
He shouted, and one of the warriors struck Ylawes’ shoulder as she passed.
“There. Follow.”
Styrvi, the shorter woman, strode off, and Ylawes followed. He quickly found the trees she was talking about; they were odd, thick-branched trees that reminded Ylawes of oaks if you refused to let them grow half as tall as regular oakwoods. It gave them a very dense, very wide canopy that meant underneath the trees it was almost dry despite the deluge.
Cutting the branches seemed the most expedient; the Cenidau warriors were hacking at the limbs with their axes, and here, at least, the Silver Swords contributed. Styrvi was cursing at a tree limb she was chopping at when Ylawes’ Gravesword bit deep into one branch. Two swings and he was through.
“Giant’s blood, is that mithril?”
“Enchanted.”
“Here? Chop it up if it’s that sharp!”
He did, and she snapped off branches with her foot as he hacked logs apart. Styrvi seemed ready to get him to do all the chopping when there were more exclamations and a crash of wood.
Dawil had just cut through six branches and was hewing them to pieces. A glint of metal in his fingers: his axe fragments. This time, Styrvi stopped dead in her tracks.
“Real Dwarf steel. That a knife?”
“No. Broken axe.”
“Broken?”
She turned to him, then bent down and began to grab pieces of wood.
“Tell it later; we’re wet, and I’m hungry.”
He was glad to know he wasn’t the only one, as confident as they seemed. That was the word for it, Ylawes realized. Confident. The Cenidau warriors trooped back to the cave, and by the time they were back, shedding water—
There was a fire.
“How in the world…?”
Ylawes was astonished to see a bright, glowing fire burning as Thker sat next to it, pushing the wet wood as close as possible to dry out. Rasktooth was sitting across from it, very impressed.
“He have magic stones, Captain! He put down, add a bit of oil, and fwoosh! They burn well.”
It looked like embers were already burning in the fire. Ylawes stared down at the black briquettes turning grey and thought he knew what it was…
“Coal?”
A grin from Thker. He was adding more wood to the little coal pile he’d set ablaze.
“Aye, that’s right. Nothing else burns so hot so easy once you get it going. Light enough too. Compared to damn firewood. D’they mine it here? Not many fancy Terandrian nations do. All magic furnaces.”
He spat into the fire, eliciting a crackle, and Ylawes sat, edging close to the warm flames. His stomach rumbled loudly.
“House Byres, my home, mines. Coal’s not worth that much except as cheap fuel. No value in it, as you said. Isn’t Cenidau cold? I’d imagine you’d have warming spells and fire magic.”
Thker was mixing something up. A lot of something; he dumped powder into a large hide bag, added a sprinkle of whatever it was from the small, waterproof one, then took a long swig from his drinking flask before pouring it in too. Then he closed the bag and began to scrunch it all up as he talked.
“Sure, there’s magic. Until it’s so cold it extinguishes flame spells. Ever seen that?”
“Can that happen?”
“Giants step on me if I lie. When it’s at its coldest, it becomes pure magic. Kills fire spells and fancy [Mage] enchantments. The only thing that saves you in those freezes is a good place with thick walls. Or to dig down into the snow. Coal fire. Saved my life more than once. It gets cold enough, you’ll have every creature not born of ice with you. My grandma, she once was caught in a true freeze. Dug herself down twenty feet because the wind was so freezing it took skin off each time it blew. Lost four fingers on her right hand before she got the fire going. Just her, a little hole in the snow as she was digging out a place to sleep—and then all the animals started coming in. Arctic foxes, a damn seal—even a polar bear and her cubs. So cold they all came for the fire.”
It sounded like a tall tale, but the fire was growing as Thker added more wood, and now he had a pot that one of his people had lugged over and filled with water from outside. Thker had built a little stand to hold it over the fire, but he’d also found a flat rock and positioned it close to the heart of the roaring flames. Now, he opened the bag and revealed a not-too-wet mass of…
Dough? Ylawes blinked as Thker tasted a bit of it, hmming.
“Not fully risen; I forgot to mix it this morning. But I’m hungry.”
So saying, he flattened a bit of dough into a circle, pressing it flat, then tossed it onto the stone. It began to smoke at once, and Ylawes’ stomach rumbled harder.
His stomach had been a poor, mostly deprived thing these last few weeks. Ylawes had thought he and his stomach were hardy, enduring sorts, but he hadn’t realized that he tended to eat fairly good no matter where he went. Bags of Holding…
His stomach had taken to the New Lands poorly, but after starving, even the tuber-worms had been edible, if not welcome. It had resigned itself, again, to sustenance with less emphasis on taste, but the first scent of cooking bread made Ylawes’ stomach sit up.
Wait a second, fresh bread? We can get that even in the wilds? Thker grinned at Ylawes’ expression. He had tossed more pucks of dough onto the little baking stone, and now he turned one over; it was already crisping, a few parts blackened, and he squirted something onto the stone.
A bit of oil—and he had a pot of gold.
Butter. He spread it on the first piece of bread he yanked off the stone, then took a bite. It crunched, and he chewed.
“Aye, that’s good enough.”
“Thker, you bastard! Stop filling your face! We’re hungry!”
Styrvi had seen him and stormed over; he swatted at her as he began adding more pieces of bread to a plate—his round buckler.
“You want to eat, you cook, Styrvi. Make me some fancy nobleman’s dinner while you’re at it.”
“I’ll feed you your own liver—”
“Styrvi! No fighting around the food!”
Evor roared, and she backed off, but Thker was moving faster anyways. Someone had been dumping objects into the cauldron now bubbling on the fire. Ylawes peeked at that, and it wasn’t a thin stew, but a dark, rich brown color. Rasktooth was adding handfuls of their stocks, and he nodded at Ylawes.
“Is good soup, Captain.”
“Why’s it brown? That’s not dirt, is it?”
“Nah, nah. Is these little cubes the Gnolls gave us. All dry, uh…stuff.”
“Stock. Chicken bouillon. Too strong t’ taste on its own.”
One of the warriors advised Rasktooth, who had nibbled on a cube. He made a face.
“Very salty. Very clever. You is add water and hublab.”
He waved his hands to indicate flavor and such. Ylawes cleared his throat.
“I hope you don’t mind us sharing the pot? We have supplies, and I trust you’re being generous, Rasktooth.”
“Oh yah. I put in all the good stuffs.”
It seemed like they were sharing plates, and the soup was getting very appealing. Evor clearly agreed.
“Let’s eat, damnit!”
He reached for a pot only to get a kick.
“Not yet, fool. The soup takes time, and Thker’s not got enough bread mixed. Where’s the Eir Kelp lines?”
“Here.”
Someone tossed a long, well-used cord of odd, purple stuff over, and another warrior grabbed it and began tying knots around the final piece of the meal that had Ylawes’ stomach finally sit up and start begging.
Fish. They had fish! The fish were slit open and covered in a light sprinkling of…dust? He smelled spices, but instead of frying them in a pan, the woman just threw them over a little spit and had them dangling over the roaring flames.
Bread, soup, and fish all cooking at the same time. The crackle and scents of the meal had the Silver Swords’ party all clustered around, giving the cooks’ space, but mouths watering. And, at some point, the howling rain had stopped coming in.
When had that happened? Ylawes had been sitting with Thker, and he’d thought the storm had let up, but when he glanced outside, it was howling worse than ever! But the three boats stacked up in front of the cave were forming a literal wall that only let someone edge out if they needed to pee—
Wait. There were three times as many Cenidau warriors here! They were gathered around the fire, stripping off armor, removing helmets, and adding more ingredients to the pots—the fish had, in fact, come from one group who had brought it.
“How did they—?”
“They started showing up just after we got the firewood, lad. Remember that horn blast? That fellow, Evor, must have told them to come this way.”
They’d been split up, but been able to find each other—and if the Silver Swords had been dangerous, the other two groups would have quickly come to the first’s aid.
Clever. Evor was standing with his group, and now it was Ylawes who wondered if they might be in danger. However, Cenidau’s folk had given them no signs of threat, and Evor strode over with something in hand.
“Captain of the Silver Swords. Time to eat. We share this fire as friends. We call it, in Cenidau, the Traveller’s Pact. If we kill each other tomorrow, so be it. But no one breaks the pact once we’ve taken the first bite of food and the first drink. Here.”
He had a piece of Thker’s bread in hand, and he thrust it and a tankard of all things at Ylawes. An extravagance, but when Ylawes sniffed what was in it, his jaw dropped.
It was liquor! Some kind of mead or ale—Ylawes blinked.
“Are you sure? We don’t have any stocks of drink—”
Evor grabbed his arm, and Ylawes was conscious of everyone watching them.
“Drink with me, Captain. We’re hungry, and neither side’s safe until we do. When we sit as friends, we share what we have, eh? Or are we all Drakes?”
“Hey! Okay, he’s right.”
Insill’s voice filled the silence, and Ylawes listened to the voice of wisdom: his stomach. He took one bite of the bread, and it was hot, chewy, and so delicious he felt tears springing to his eyes. Then he took a gulp of the drink which turned out to be a mead, almost sweet.
Sugar. After so long—he realized Evor was standing there and handed the man his mead, embarrassed because he’d had almost half! The warrior took down the rest of the tankard, then laughed and took a bite from the bread.
“To the New Lands of Izril!”
There was a clash, and Ylawes jumped, but it was Cenidau’s warriors striking their helmets and shields. Then Styrvi leapt up and charged the fire to be first in line for food. She nearly ran slam-bang into Falene, who already had a bowl and was licking her lips. Everyone began pushing forwards, then, and Evor casually took another bite of his bread.
“Now we’re friends—there won’t be much more of this, so just a dram since we have to wait.”
He produced a small pot, winking at Ylawes, before pouring a bit of it over his flatbread. Then he added it to Ylawes’ bread.
Honey.
The two men ate very slowly as the press of hungry bodies around the fire began to ease, and Ylawes finally got a half of a fish, a bowl loaded up with steaming soup, and another piece of bread. From Pekona. She brought it over; he insisted on feeding her his meal, and she did the same for him. They were giggling like children, and Dasha and Rasktooth, who’d joined them, eventually left, rolling their eyes at the silliness.
Thker worked at the fire, eating and chatting as people sat down, and more soup was added. Buckets of water sloshed into the soup, and then the [Knight] saw Insill waving at him with delight, chewing nonstop, and he thought to himself—
Cenidau. Who knew the northernmost kingdom in the world was so good at surviving?
In hindsight—it was a bit obvious.
 
——
 
When the frenzy of eating had slowed down, they got to talking. Because, as promised, Cenidau was fascinated by The Wandering Inn and any information on the Goblin King that the Silver Swords had. The Silver Swords, accordingly, found themselves swapping for information the Cenidau warriors had in a very odd trade.
One side would ask questions, direct the flow of conversation from the other side, and then it would be the other’s turn to ask. The teller was the one expected to be honest, clear, and to elaborate when needed.
Of course, they didn’t believe all of what the Silver Swords said about The Wandering Inn. When Ylawes tried to describe Erin’s exploits or how she connected to so many major Izrilian events, they laughed at him.
“You’re trying to charm Giants out of the mountains, as many tall tales as you’re telling, [Knight]!”
One jeered at him. Pekona raised her sword, and there was a tensing—but she just held it up.
“It is not a tale! On the honor of Drath, I swear I was at Zeladona’s trial. I have her Skill. Who here would face me and bear my blade’s cuts?”
That silenced them. A few of the northfolk shifted, but a hand from Evor made them quiet. He stared at Pekona.
“You’re from that moment. Aye. And though it chilled my bones to see those two in the rain and storm, like a nightgast had wandered amongst the living and pretended to be a person—”
Everyone shuddered, but he gestured to Poke Duo.
“…That’s no lie either. Antinium fellow. What’s that spear you carry?”
“Hello, I am Infinitypear. This? This is the Spear of Pear Stabbings. It used to be Spearmaster Lulv’s. Is it a good bona fide?”
People had to get up to stare at Infinitypear’s spear and test the Adamantium head. Fifteen warriors nicked themselves on the blade and swore as they felt the magic before they were convinced. It also broke some of the tension they had; no one had exactly gotten near Rasktooth or Infinitypear.
But that was the power of the inn. The inn, Ylawes realized, which had gone from a no-name building on Liscor’s outskirts to a worldwide name.
“So that young woman was the same one who fought the Wyverns and had that Antinium on Pallass’ walls? Bird the Hunter? The same one, I said, that fought those moths that eat faces?”
Thker was excited and surprisingly knowledgeable about Erin. When Dawil confirmed it was the same person, he elbowed Styrvi hard.
“Told you.”
She punched him back, and Anith raised his brows.
“The fact that you know so many moments is extraordinary to me. Cenidau is the northern-most kingdom of Terandria, but you’re so…aware of Izrilian affairs.”
They laughed at him, not without a trace of bitterness. Evor took a gulp of water and spat into the fire.
“Izril had all the television; what else is there to watch? Wistram, they covered none of our moments. Not our fights with Taimaguros, nor our great moments or tragic—”
For some reason, he glanced at one of the older female warriors, but the woman just called out as the room went silent.
“It sounds like a Giant’s tale, but sometimes, they’re true. Sometimes, the mountain does speak, and only a fool claps their hands to their ears and claims it was an earthquake. So let’s listen.  Tell us more about what you know of this Goblin King, Adventurer.”
She gazed at him, and they listened. Ylawes told them all he knew, which was not much. A Goblin King had lived and died, and his beloved inn was part of it. This was the moment where they should be rightfully skeptical, and he was prepared for it as he saw a frown on every face, dissatisfied with a legend of destruction being wrapped up so neatly. But then Ylawes added the last bit.
“I don’t know what happened, truly. But when I am finished here, I will go back to that inn and ask what happened. What I missed. Whatever they tell me, I will believe. I was not there; I wish I had been, but I believe the Goblin King appeared and died. When I return, I’ll ask them to explain it all to me, even if they tell me the sky fell when I wasn’t watching. It’s just that kind of place.”
The northfolk regarded each other, and Ylawes was conscious of Dawil, Falene, his team, all glancing at him, and he feared he’d said something wrong or offensive. But his half-Elven friend smiled with genuine approval, and Pekona leaned over.
“Sometimes, Ylawes, you say very stupid things. Sometimes, you say things just right. It must be House Byres luck. Which is sometimes better than Doombearer luck, even.”
He coughed, redfaced. It was just a Skill. But then they kept talking, and the northfolk were warming as rapidly as the cave as they began to tell the curious Silver Swords about themselves.
 
——
 
The north was not all empty tundras, but if you wanted to get from any settlement to another, you had to be prepared. Over the dinner and long night in the cave, as they sat, warm and dry and bellies filled with food for once, Cenidau’s people got to talking with the Silver Swords.
They were far more gregarious when they were camped, probably because they’d struck the Traveller’s Pact. But also, it seemed, because this was a good time for talking.
“This land’s nowhere near as bad as the far north. We came ready for anything—losing our magic hurt, but we knew the dangers. Food, fire, shelter—if we have that, we have a future. You Izrilians didn’t bring any of it, truly?”
“We had some of it. Just not the, ah, nuances.”
Homle was defending himself to the warriors, who were all apparently of similar classes. A mix between [Warrior] and [Traveller]: [Shieldmaiden], [Hearthguard], [Tundra Fighter], [Shoremen]—completely unique classes to Ylawes.
No, hadn’t he met Briganda…? But this was an entire culture where she had only had the class. Much like him, actually.
“Nuance. Like what?”
Evor sat around the fire, legs stretched out. He was wearing his armor, scale and chainmail, and looked ready to sleep in it; they all had fur sleeping bags, and some were rolling into them, those that didn’t want to chat. Homle took another sip from his mug.
The northfolk had given everyone a mug of drink. Not a full one, but it made everything far, far more pleasant. Ylawes had no idea how they could give out so much, but friendship and hospitality were very important to their traditions. Homle gestured at Evor’s gear.
“Well…I suppose we were all ready to set up farms and such, but we didn’t have more than firewood. And we had plenty to build with. Just not…”
Homle waved a hand at the setup the [Hearthguard Leader] had on him. Knives for skinning and hunting, waterproofed satchels for carrying, water skins, a gear kit to repair and maintain his boots and armor.
Waterproof hide—waterproof objects were very handy. Jars of spice mixes. A bag for pre-mixed dough for bread. Coal, a dousing rod, even a jar of animal blubber?
“What’s that for? It stinks! That better not have been in our food.”
Larr was protesting as the northfolk showed off their equipment, laughing at the tools that the Silver Swords were carrying. Not with pure scorn; one of them gave Pekona’s whetstones a double take, and the sight of Infinitypear’s spear had everyone begging to try stabbing something with it.
“This? Just animal fat. I’d not eat it unless I was desperate—and there’re times you are if you’re becalmed at sea. But I use it for keeping my armor clear of rust. Lasts for ages unless it’s damned rainy, as it is today, or you go rolling in the muck.”
Ylawes had been scratching at a bunch of spots on his own armor, and he sighed longingly. Evor noticed his look and held the jar out.
“We’re all travellers sharing a fire here. Need some?”
Ylawes hesitated, because there was sharing a fire, taking a man’s drink, and then there was using someone else’s armor polish.
“Well, I wouldn’t turn any down, but I couldn’t impose that much without a fair trade, Evor.”
A grin, and Ylawes saw the men and women turn, and their faces filled with the same smile. He shifted as Evor produced a final trinket from his packs.
“Fair, fair. I’ll dice you for it, aye. How about…that dagger of yours? Silver n’ steel, is it? It’d look mighty fine in my collection.”
There was a pause, then Styrvi poked Pekona and gestured to her whetstones. She judiciously put down a pot that turned out to contain raspberry jams. And then Ylawes was introduced to another custom of Cenidau.
 
——
 
“Gambling is a sin, you know. It’s one of the things I never thought I’d do before I turned thirty, or forty, even! That and sex.”
Ylawes was horrified by the dice game that had occupied a space just away from the fire. He confided his worries to Pekona and Dawil, and the Dwarf muffled a snort.
A passing [Shieldlad] had taken a drink of his mead, and he choked on it before laughing so hard he stumbled and nearly fell into the fire. Even Pekona was mildly aghast.
“But it’s just dice, Ylawes.”
“It’s a virtueless act that breeds vice. My father always…”
Ylawes hesitated.
“He has played cards before, and that sort of thing is acceptable between other men, but not excessive sums. I’ve stayed away from it, right, Dawil?”
“Like a reformed [Drunkard] avoids bars, yes, lad. You have. But the Cenidau crowd’s been nothing but generous to us, and so long as no one’s wagering anything important, why not let it ride, eh?”
Dawil rested a hand on Ylawes’ shoulder, and the [Knight] hesitated. He was of a mind to put a stop to it, but he hadn’t been quite able to say ‘enough’. And his two friends didn’t hate it. It was just…
Gambling.
“Well, it is their custom. So long as it’s just trinkets…maybe we should watch. How does it work?”
He had a vague notion of someone rolling a pair of sixes or ones and that being good or bad, or laying down a full hand of cards in a bar and someone else pulling a knife in outrage, but Ylawes was a bit curious. Dawil stroked his beard.
“Looks like it’s a non-magic dice set. Makes sense. Some variant of Dragon’s Gambit? I don’t know; it’s been years since I had a good game with actual stakes. I know that stresses you out, lad. Let’s see and, uh, make sure no one’s betting anything after all. Those northfolk want our best stuff.”
Indeed, the purpose of sharing their gear earlier had clearly been to check out what was worth having, and now both sides were wagering for the other’s possessions.
The problem was that Cenidau’s warriors had a lot to trade. They didn’t want to give up their weapons, or even throwing weapons. Rather, they were betting real valuables.
“This is a wrapped wheel of cheese. We bought it off some [Traders] on a ship we passed heading south. The seal of freshness’ gone, but I reckon it’s as good as it’ll be until unwrapped. I’ll wager it for that belt buckle you’ve got; mine’s no good. I’ll even throw in the buckle if you lose.”
“Hm. Let’s see it…deal!”
Homle was down to gamble, and Ylawes groaned as he saw other items going into the pot. A jar of strawberry jam, a pair of metal tweezers from one of Petia’s people, a trio of gold coins—
It was all relative worth, but the gold was the least appealing option in the pot and actually ejected after some debate. Tweezers to pull out a thorn in one’s foot?
Valuable beyond belief. Ylawes was glad most of his people weren’t rushing to gamble their things. But that was, again, Petia.
“No one’s gambling food or anything that belongs to the group. And on your head be it if you lose something important! This lot might have gambling Skills and rook all of us!”
She warned everyone, loudly, and Evor laughed as he rattled some bone dice in a cup.
“Not us. Nor d’we like such Skills. We can [Sniff a Rogue], right, Albraad?”
He nudged the fellow who wanted Homle’s belt buckle, and the warrior made a show of sniffing, then jerked a finger at Insill.
“Besides that one, they’re clear. Right, here’s how the game works before we play. Can’t take a man’s belt buckle without winning it nice and honest. See these dice?”
They had five. Evor showed people the sides as he tossed them out of the cup onto the stone floor.
“You toss them like so. Toss it too far and out of sight and no one trusts it—no rerolls. It’s just gone. Each face means something. The best face to roll’s a kraken. See? Roll the kraken and you take another player out, unless they roll a sailor on their turn. One in six chances of each.”
“Ah, gotcha, and so the last one standing takes the pot?”
All the northfolk shook their heads instantly, and Albraad held a hand out.
“The last one standing takes one item out of the pot. Game ends too quick with too much bad blood, otherwise. This way, it’s interesting. Someone else is going t’win and you’re not? Maybe throw the game if you know they’re after what you don’t want, and they might help you next round.”
“Help you? Are there sides?”
Insill was very curious despite being the dirty [Rogue], and Albraad grinned at him.
“Only the ones you make. It’s a free game. Help someone, hurt someone—you see, roll a kraken and you can take someone out. But roll a wolf? And then whomever has the most wolves on them at the end of the round is also gone. Each player can toss a wolf at someone, and you’re like to roll wolves far more than a kraken or sailor.”
More than one face of the die had a wolf. Insill protested.
“Wait, it’s like a group vote? So you can take sides and team up? That’s not fair.”
“Spoken like a Drake!”
All the Cenidau folk chorused and fell over each other laughing. Insill wilted as Evor shot them a warning glance and explained.
“Ignore them. They’re giddy to meet real Drakes after so long at sea. Antinium too.”
“You’re rather calm for people who’ve met Antinium for the first time. Goblins as well. I’m in this game, though I’ll want a practice round as well as explanations.”
Homle seemed like he was used to such games, and Ylawes stood on the outside as the [Miner] sat, and they chatted. Albraad had everyone roll dice, and the person with the most wolves got to choose if they went first or last; there was also a value to that, too, given that they’d go in a circle.
It was not so much a game of hard numbers and the best roll, more one of being social, Ylawes realized. Falene said as much as she came over, nursing her drink.
“Wistram hates these kinds of games.”
“Why, not enough magic dice that explode in your face, Falene?”
Dawil grinned, and she rolled her eyes.
“No, because they’re social games that you can’t win by being the best at through learning the system’s mechanics or manipulating the odds, Dawil. Half of my peers don’t have the charisma to buy a drink at a bar.”
“Ah, well, you are above-average for a Wistram [Mage].”
“Thank you, Dawil. I’m glad you noticed.”
The Dwarf turned his head and made faces at Ylawes and Pekona, and they had to fight to avoid laughing as Falene watched, oblivious. Homle was chatting as he played with five others.
“How’d you make it across the sea this far on those little boats?”
“These’re not the ones we used! We have a longship. It’s like this, but, well, bigger. Sails and all. Still a dangerous journey, but it was worth the risk.”
All the Cenidau folk nodded, sombering a bit.
“We lost five on the trip here to the storms and monsters. But it’s the journey of a lifetime. We’d have had larger ships and gone with far more, but—well—we wanted to be first.”
For some reason, Albraad glanced at Styrvi, and there was a slight pause before he hurried on.
“Right, now you go. Ah, you’ve thrown a shield.”
“So?”
“So you can pull a wolf off of someone. Fancy making a friend?”
Homle obligingly saved Albraad from one of his wolves, and the man slapped him on the shoulder and laughed.
“So how’s a [Miner] end up with Gold-rank adventurers?”
Homle gladly launched into the story of the Silver Swords, and Ylawes’ stomach tightened, but the [Miner] did a reasonably fair job of presenting the Consortium’s point of view, and his, which had been to stick it out until things were too dire. The northfolk shook their heads again. Half turned to spit into the fire.
“Madness, not to take enough to hunt with. We grow so little in the north we didn’t think to try. Izril truly is a strange place, but worth the travel. Few, few Drakes or Gnolls ever come as far north as Cenidau. After seeing so much of the world on television—we had to come. Meeting an Antinium’s been a dream of mine.”
Albraad’s eyes lit on Infinitypear, and Homle blinked.
“What about Rasktooth?”
“What about him? He’s a Goblin, isn’t he? We saw a few of those, too. The one playing the guitar at the inn…”
Numbtongue. Ylawes had to interject here.
“You don’t see Goblins as monsters, Warrior Albraad?”
The man had a thick orange beard he scratched, thinking about it.
“If I saw one on the tundras, perhaps—but like as not we’d pass each other by. Too risky to fight out there. One wound and we’d both freeze if a True Frost were to blow through. I’ve seen a few Goblins. Fought a few. One’s not more dangerous than any of you.”
“Hey, I plenty dangerous!”
Rasktooth objected, and the [Tundra Warrior] grinned at him. So, it was a mix of pragmatism and experience then.
“You want to play, Goblin? I’ll wager you for one of those crossbows. Even my second-best axe.”
He proffered a steel blade, and Rasktooth hesitated before shaking his head warily. As it turned out, he was carrying something the Cenidau folk prized the most: machinery.
“Metal can still freeze, but it’s more reliable than magic. It’s why we did well enough, here. Speaking of—another drink for those brave enough to dice!”
More of the precious mead was in the cups that Homle accepted with a huge chuckle before frowning.
“Hold it. How can you have so much of that? Did you carry fifty kegs on your ships or are we drinking you out of everything?”
Albraad lifted the wineskin he’d been pouring into cups and grinned.
“This? [Wineskin of Barrels]. Three, if I’m a judge.”
“You’ve got a wineskin of holding?”
Homle exclaimed, and another [Hearthguard] laughed and produced something else.
“You don’t? You’re like southern kingdoms, then. No Skills for travel. See this? [Bag of Slow Rot]. How do you manage here without Skills? Practice finding caves?”
“We don’t find caves, mostly.”
“What? Do you sleep out in the open?”
More genuine horror. Thker slapped his chest.
“I have [Locate Shelter], but every party that leaves one of the Warm Cities has someone like me. You don’t have anyone like that…? What about [Sense Resources]? That’s how we found the firewood.”
No and no. Ylawes was patently embarrassed as Homle glanced at him, but Dawil just shook his head.
“That’s not part of our classes, friends. Me and the lad—Ylawes—we’re fighters to the core. Adventurers.”
“You’d think adventure meant being better at finding things. I suppose you don’t have that class, then.”
Styrvi commented, and Infinitypear waved his hands.
“I have the class! Perhaps I will gain a very useful bag-Skill!”
In any other circumstance, Ylawes would have called Albraad’s Skill a useful novelty, but a waste of a potential ability. Here—he was patently envious of their abilities, which allowed them to do everything they were already capable of.
These people are the kind who’ll thrive in the New Lands. That was it, he realized. They reminded him of Nailren. And, he knew, he wasn’t the only person who thought the same way.
“Captain Byres, a word?”
Petia was watching Homle losing his belt buckle, and the [Miner] was laughing good-naturedly with Albraad as she motioned Ylawes aside. Pekona, Dawil, and Falene casually stepped back, and Petia spoke.
“I don’t want to sound like I’m trying to tell you what to do, sir—”
“No, go on, Petia. Did you have a thought? Something we should gamble for?”
Ylawes hadn’t seen much that they didn’t need, though he wished he could get some of that animal fat. But Petia was glancing at Evor.
“No, rather, Captain…do you think we could join these folk for a bit? Between their Skills and all they seem to have packed, it’d be far more reassuring.”
More than crossing a river without any experience, she meant. Ylawes rubbed at his chin.
“That’s not a bad idea…but I’m sure they’re exploring, and I don’t know what their goals are.”
“Let me figure it out, lad. Pointy, got anything to trade?”
“Argh…a haircomb. Don’t you have anything?”
“Yeah, but I don’t want to lose it. Thanks!”
Dawil strode over to the game, and Falene would have hit him with a spell if she had any mana left. But Pekona strolled over too, and the two sat down. Dawil wagered the hair comb and drew in more players for the next round, and Pekona put one of her whetstones into the pot, and a dozen warriors queued up. So many that they had to split Dawil and Pekona off into separate games.
“That’s a Drathian whetstone. We trade with Drath, far as they are. Most things from there are worth any coin. And you…d’you know the Drathian [Swordsmaster] who fought Zeladona of blades? Or the one who fought that undead Drake at the Village of the Dead?”
The northfolk knew television, and when Pekona turned red and ducked her head, everyone wanted to win her whetstones off her. Her being the [Sword Dancer] from both events had the northfolk with eyes round as gold coins for once.
Dawil was laughing and telling stories as Ylawes hesitated, watching.
“Aye, we know the Horns of Hammerad. You’ll never guess it, but one of us is related to the Horns! Any guesses? Why are you all looking at Ylawes and Falene? Damn it, I could have been Pisces’ uncle or second-relative…question while I have you all. What’re you here for? The Silver Swords are mostly searching for employment, but what brings Cenidau’s folk so far?”
He put the question to Evor, who sat back on his haunches and glanced, again, at another woman in his group. She spoke, and Ylawes realized she had grey in her hair. Just a touch, but it made her older than the rest.
“What else but to see what these lands hold, Adventurer Dawil? I’m Rigalde.”
“Pleased. Then you’re exploring. I think you didn’t find anything of note, or did we do our introductions wrong?”
She chuckled.
“You did them fairly enough. We like our customs, and we’re wary because not every group’s been hospitable to us. Even the other Terandrian kingdoms treat us like savages. We’ve seen delights, but no wonders. Not yet. Save for a strange bird made of ice, but we kept our heads low when it flew. It seemed far too dangerous for us to take on.”
“Huh, you’re more cautious than I’d thought. The stories of Cenidau warriors we get, and the ones who visit Deríthal-Vel for gear, play into that wildness. Brave, hardy folk ready for a drink and a scrap.”
Dawil was being his most charming and rolled his dice out, cursing when he got nothing of value, but Rigalde just grimaced.
“You met [Hearthlords], then. Or maybe a Wisdom or some merchants who play into the image. We’re common warriors, even if we’re not [Linewomen] who just fight for pay. We have neither the riches nor the levels to slay monsters like adventurers. Killing walruses and selling their meat, hides, and tusks is pay enough for us. There are other ways to make coin, but monsters in Cenidau are seldom easy to slay.”
“Fair enough. Say, did I hear there was a drink for anyone betting out here?”
The game went on, and Ylawes saw how even if you weren’t a good player and able to count wolves or guess who might roll a Kraken and what that would do to the game balance, being well-liked was value enough.
Dawil lost a round, and Rigalde took the whetstone from Pekona, but Dawil was able to bow out and return the haircomb to Falene after another round. Pekona, surprisingly, stayed in.
She lost a small whetstone after the second round, and only luck itself let her win the third round—she plucked the jar of animal fat and dashed out of the group, clutching her remaining whetstone to her chest.
“Ylawes, here.”
She showed him the jar of animal fat, and he took it.
“Wait, for me? Pekona—thank you.”
Falene rolled her eyes, but she had been watching the games themselves. She left and came back with Evor, who glanced at Ylawes.
“I should have known better than to doubt Mage Falene’s words. We owe her all these drinks. To think you are all so related to the stories that drew us south…you could bet your autograph or your dagger in those games, Miss Pekona. But I was told you had an offer for me, Captain? Let’s hear it, though I’m only first among equals. My group and I decide as one.”
His voice was loud enough that Thker, Styrvi, and Rigalde all glanced up. Ylawes stopped hugging Pekona, red-cheeked.
“What? Oh, yes. I was simply wondering if you’d care to journey together as long as we’re headed the same way, Leader Evor. Your group is pleasant company, and we’re simply roaming in search of work. We’d share food and resources, of course!”
Homle perked up where he sat, and so did most of the colonists not sleeping, but Evor visibly hesitated. He glanced at Thker, who shrugged, Styrvi, who held an instant thumbs down, Rigalde…
Her slight shake of the head and mixed, mostly negative gestures from Evor’s group told Ylawes the answer. Evor glanced back at him and shrugged.
“It’s not personal. Don’t take it like a Taimaguros fool or Kaazian, Captain. I was starting to like you all.”
“What? Of course not. I completely respect your decision. But may I ask why?”
Evor relaxed a bit. Possibly, he had been worried Ylawes would be insistent. He scratched at his neck.
“To be honest as a Giant, it’s not to our favor. Your group will march slower than ours, horses or not. Binding our paths together means we’re on foot, not able to use rivers. And also, it seems to me we stand less to gain by sharing what we have.”
He meant the food. Ylawes protested.
“We wouldn’t ask for this hospitality twice—”
Styrvi broke in loudly.
“But we would. D’you think we’d want to eat better than you in plain sight? We share like brothers and sisters or not at all. We can’t haul dead weight, especially in dangerous lands, [Knight].”
“Styrvi, enough.”
A slightly unpleasant silence fell as Evor snapped, but Ylawes just nodded.
“All this is quite fair, Evor. Thank you for your honesty, and we understand. In truth, we are rather unprepared for the New Lands. This was boon enough.”
The [Leader] eyed him, then snatched up Albraad’s drinking skin and emptied it into a cup. He took a swig and then shoved it at Ylawes.
“Argh! Another toast to friends, however short we meet! You’re far more pleasant than [Knights] I’ve met!”
“Oh, I’m hardly—thank you. Actually, we met the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, so you’re the second Terandrian group we’ve seen!”
Ylawes drank, embarrassed, and Evor stopped. His lips twisted, and he spat into the fire, which was now dying a bit, a bed of coals. Rigalde muttered.
“Far more pleasant indeed. Was any of our kin there? We have one or two in them, I think.”
She didn’t know? It was a huge point of national honor—when Ylawes shook his head, she shrugged.
“Best to stay away, then. We’re but northfolk to them. It’s more amusing to be just another group of Terandrians in the New Lands than to be Northfolk in other kingdoms back home.”
That soured the mood enough to have some warriors turning in to sleep, but a core of both sides kept dicing away, not always for items, just for fun. Ylawes wasn’t actually that sleepy anymore, despite his full belly; this conversation and the light of the fire, whose smoke was swept out of the cave into the rain, was so enjoyable he didn’t want it to end.
“[Smoke-led Fire]. Damn. We could have really used their company.”
Dawil was sighing as they made up their bedrolls. Pekona helped clean Ylawes’ rusty armor—the sections that hadn’t been made of good enough silversteel—as Falene muttered.
“There has to be a way to change their minds. In the morning, I’ll cast some magic. That might persuade them we’re worth it.”
“We can manage without them. Cenidau is tough and cold and…but we did fine.”
Pekona was trying to be a voice of optimism, but Dawil and Falene just glanced at her. They didn’t give her the cold shoulder. Rather, Dawil rolled over so he was facing her.
“Pekona, I admire that perspective, but we’ve been drowning on land these last few days, and the storm’s not letting up. Even for someone who can sense a place to sleep, I’d trade anything but my broken axe. We know when we need experts, and right now, they’re the people to convince. Do you know anything that might help?”
Pekona sat down, picked up a length of her black hair, and stuck it into her mouth. She began to chew on it.
“Um…um…back home, they sometimes come to the islands. Selling Everfrozen Ice, horn and hides, things of cold. They like our pills and elixirs and magic. As Leader Evor said, they want—what’s the word? Well-made things more than even magic.”
“Quality. Yep. You don’t have anything they’d want?”
Falene was muttering to herself.
“Cenidau. Cenidau. I vaguely recall something about their hospitality customs. It’s clear they value them quite a lot. They treat friends like boon companions, hate being in debt…the Taimaguros Dominion’s won two wars against them, but it’s hard to take the north and hold it. Maybe if we offered gold…?”
“No Merchant’s Guilds around, Falene. How’d we get them to trust that?”
The Silver Swords were sleepy, and Pekona was wiggling into the bedroll as Ylawes stood there, yawning. It would be so helpful to receive their aid…he glanced back to the dicers and saw Infinitypear and Rasktooth playing.
But the two were far too cautious to bet anything of value; they were playing for shiny stones and a bug that Infinitypear had caught with a few warriors who wanted to chat. That was good.
“No one bet anything important, did they?”
“Homle’s pants aren’t going to thank him, but no. I don’t think so. The man was born to lose at dice, but he never bet his axe. Nor did the Cenidau folk take second glance at anyone’s weapons. I heard one of ‘em even telling Petia to sharpen her spear more.”
Dawil grunted, and Ylawes glanced at Homle’s axe. Then at Petia’s spear.
Mithril. He began to strip off his now-oiled armor, putting it in a pile, as he stared into the rain past the barricade of boats.
So clever to use them as a literal wall. Cenidau understood how to survive. If only…
He wished Erin would summon him to her [Pavilion of Secrets] right now, or Mrsha would appear out of the air and impress Evor and his crew so much they decided to join with the Silver Swords for a few days.
Erin could get people to do anything. It was that endless charisma he lacked. Oh, he tried to be good, and sometimes people did his team favors, but Ylawes couldn’t turn to someone, change their lives, and have them fight side-by-side with him with no questions asked. Erin could, but that’s because she offered people something Ylawes could not.
Meaning.
Hope.
Redemption…
A bit of wonder. He couldn’t give Evor and his people anything but a bunch of less-experienced people to drag along. Ylawes tossed, turned, nearly rolled over Pekona, and she jabbed him with an elbow.
“Ylawes. Stop rolling. It’s too hot.”
He rolled over to the left, apologizing, then sat up. This time, Pekona’s sleepy, messy head of hair revealed a baleful glower.
“Ylawes…”
She tried to snatch back the bedroll he had pulled off her, but the [Knight] was getting back out, dressing himself. He fumbled with their things, then stood there.
I could get Dawil to…one look at the Dwarf, who was combing his beard out with his personal comb before he slept, then a glance at the dicers and Ylawes hesitated. Then he strolled on over.
“Er…hello. Could I play a game?”
Thker glanced up as Rasktooth lost one of the shiny little riverstones. He motioned Ylawes to sit.
“Sure enough. Got anything to wager? Naw, naw, just a joke. First you play, then we take your valuables.”
There was laughter, and Ylawes realized Styrvi was sitting around the dying fire as well. Evor was watching, drying his boots by the fire, and Rasktooth grinned.
“You feeling lucky, Captain?”
“Not of late, but I, uh, I’ve never gambled before. I’d like to try.”
It was a very guilty feeling Ylawes had, but he’d watched the game so many times that he thought he knew how to do it. Playing was far more nerve-wracking than he thought, and the other players laughed at his nerves as he had to give someone his wolves the first time he rolled.
After that, he found out that he was not a very good gambler. Ylawes didn’t have a good sense for the game, and he was far too honest. The second time Styrvi asked him to support her in ousting another player, then turned around and stabbed him in the back the next round, Evor got up and came over.
“We rise at dawn, so this will be the last game. Turn out your pockets and put something good in. We play until the pot’s empty.”
He caught Ylawes’ eye and added.
“It doesn’t need to be anything valuable. It’s traditional.”
“Oh. Oh, we must put something in that is good, Brother.”
Infinitypear and Rasktooth conferred, then solemnly put in a huge, red feather they had gotten from some bird around Liscor and a hand-carved dagger made out of one of the Landshark’s teeth from Rasktooth. It was good enough for Styrvi to yank out a boot-dagger and Thker to add in a half-jar of cane sugar. Evor himself tossed in a spare buckler as one of Petia’s farmers, a Wolbrin, put in a bottle of Velrusk’s Claw he’d bought from Plain’s Eye. The last [Arctic Fighter] put in a lantern with a long lens. When Evor frowned at him, the man protested.
“I’ve got a spare. It’s a fine tool to see far with. Glass and iron, forged in Cenidau’s own smithies.”
It seemed Poke Duo had won enough friendship to make this pot one to actually matter. Ylawes himself dithered for a while before tossing in a long, thin piece of battered metal. Styrvi scoffed, but Ylawes gestured at it.
“It’s good metal. Trust me.”
“Fair enough.”
Evor swept the dice up, kicking Styrvi before she could sneer, and among the Northfolk, perhaps only Thker was sober enough to notice Poke Duo and Wolbrin all turn to Ylawes for a second before they bent their heads to play.
The final game was quick because they were tired, but it didn’t end with the first victor. Thker hesitated before he swept up Rasktooth’s knife.
“So I can say it was from a Goblin and a shark that walks, combined.”
He grinned as he flashed it at Rasktooth, then bowed out of the game. However, Evor picked up the cup and handed it to Wolbrin, who was second-last.
“We roll again until the pot’s empty. That’s how the game’s played. Northern Fates, with a change of possessions for all.”
Ah. Ylawes relaxed, and the second round played on. It was Infinitypear who won. The Antinium made a show of inspecting the various items, and he peered for a long time at the bull’s-eye lantern which he had taken a shine to. But then he reached for the long sword blade that Ylawes had put in.
“Infinitypear, you should take the lantern. I can see you want it.”
Ylawes forestalled the Antinium before he grabbed the blade. Infinitypear eyed Ylawes, and Evor nodded.
“Bad luck to take something you don’t want.”
“Oh, well, if you say so, Captain…yay! Yay! Brother, look!”
Infinitypear claimed the lantern and ran around with it excitedly. Rasktooth cursed.
“Damn. Okay, I want that dagger, then. Or sugar.”
On they played. The items began to vanish one-by-one as Wolbrim hesitantly claimed the buckler, and Rasktooth decided to take Thker’s sugar for cooking. Then it was just Evor and Ylawes going for Styrvi’s dagger and his unpolished, tarnished sword blade.
Ylawes rolled his dice out, hoping for more Krakens than Sailors—or more Wolves than Evor’s Shields, the only way to win at this final stage when it was one-versus-one. Evor grinned as he rolled three Krakens and the group groaned good-naturedly. Ylawes rolled a single Sailor and one Kraken and stood.
“I think that’s game.”
“Aye. And I think…I’d rather not smell Styrvi’s boots the rest of my days! This will do with some sharpening.”
Evor hesitated, then bent down and snatched the odd sword blade that Ylawes had added. He blinked as he flipped it up in his hand, and it rotated past his head. He had to snatch it out of the air with an oath.
“Giant’s—this is light!”
He frowned as he swished the sword blade around, then inspected it. Ylawes took the dagger and thrust it into his belt, trying to sound casual as his heart hammered in his chest.
He could be very, very wrong, in which case he’d own his mistakes, but—he glanced at Evor as Thker and Styrvi turned.
“That? Well, yes, it is. Take care of it, Evor. We didn’t have time in Goisedall to buy hilts nor sharpen it properly. We might have to lend you a blade; not even Pekona’s best whetstones will give it an edge.”
He was conscious of some of the Silver Swords sitting up, and the other Northfolk were waiting for the fire to be extinguished. Some of them sat up as Evor tested the blade, trying to flex it.
“This…isn’t steel. What metal is it?”
“Mithril.”
It was Rasktooth who breathed the word, and that one name, the magical metal, filled the warm cave with something else. More figures sat up, and Evor froze, the blade in his hands.
“Impossible. Mithril’s brighter than the moon on snow. And lighter than…”
Styrvi snatched the sword blade and recoiled as she felt how light it was. Like holding a feather. And she could not flex it with all her strength. Evor barely could when he tried so hard his biceps stood out on both his arms. Even then, the flex was so subtle…
It’d never break. It’d take a year of swinging to even dull. Ylawes thought of the Thousand Lances. A blade fit for the greatest living [Knights] of the modern era.
“You put that in the pot?”
Evor demanded, incredulous. Ylawes shrugged again.
“I was told it mattered. Call it fairly won, Evor. A gift between friends. I’ll treasure Styrvi’s boot knife. It might keep away as many foes as that Mithril blade will.”
She choked, and Evor saw Ylawes hold out a hand. The [Knight] stood there, unarmored, blond hair a mess, blue eyes shining with all the naïve earnestness of a golden retriever. The [Hearthguard Leader] blinked at the leader of the Silver Swords, then he threw his head back and laughed. He held the Mithril blade, gazed down at it, and laughed harder.
Thker joined in, and he leaned against Styrvi, pointing at Ylawes.
“Look—look at that idiot—what kind of a fool gambles Mithril on a final game of Winter’s Fates?”
She was working her jaw, incredulous, but then a look of hilarity stole over her expression as well. Ruefully, she began to chuckle. Then the other [Arctic Fighter] started snorting.
“That blade lying there when we nearly kicked him out for not filling the pot! And here I took the feather!”
Then they were all laughing. At Ylawes, as other warriors cursed and sat up or demanded to know what was so damn funny at this hour. When they saw the blade, they began to laugh as well.
“Ylawes?”
Pekona was worried as she got out of her bedroll, and Falene was groaning, trying to smile. However—Dawil was stroking his beard and hiding a smile, and Anith was grinning. Ylawes Byres, that silly doofus, stood there, hand stretched out until Evor seized it.
“Argh. And here’s me thinking that there was nothing more to you than another [Knight]! When they bring stories back home, I’ll tell them to speak of you, Ylawes Byres! An Izrilian’s cunning! Friends. We must be friends, or you’ll have to kill me for a [Robber]!”
He bumped shoulders against Ylawes, who remembered to do the same. Evor turned and tossed the sword at another member of his band.
“Let’s get a hilt on that in the morning. In the morning! Or else we’ll not sleep a wink! We set out at dawn, mark me!”
He spun and pointed at the Silver Swords. Evor’s teeth flashed ruefully.
“Suddenly, I don’t think it’s too much of an inconvenience to share Thker’s bread, eh?”
“If you’re sure, Evor…”
Ylawes spoke innocently as Dasha sat up with a gasp of delight. The [Hearthguard Leader] just snorted.
“Westwards! We’ll share a fire at least four days or unless we see something worth splitting over. Now, rest!”
He threw himself into his bedrolls as a chatter rose, then died down. Ylawes walked back to his bedrolls, and Dawil threw his comb at him.
“Lad, you’re practically a Reinhart with all this deviousness!”
“Ylawes, did you just trade a Mithril blade for—?”
“For guidance and friendship, Falene. I did. We have more pieces than we need. Or do you think it was a bad idea?”
She hesitated and glanced at the Cenidau warriors. Then she lay back.
“Well, no. I would have just given him an axehead. They love those. Very traditional.”
Ylawes grinned as he lay in his bedroll. Pekona stared at him, then sat down. They whispered.
“Very smart, Ylawes.”
“Thank you. I just thought, well…other cultures. Honor means a lot. I’ve met Calruz. Cenidau’s like that.”
“Mhm. It’s very smart. Like trapping someone with their own honor. Back home, it would work sort of like that. Good job.”
He felt excellent. Ylawes turned, and they kissed. They were just warming up as the fire died and the rain poured on when someone threw a boot and nailed Ylawes and Pekona from across the room.
“Hey. None of that when we’re sleeping together.”
The two jumped, and Dawil and Falene sighed in relief as she took her fingers out of her ears and he yanked his helmet off his head. Ylawes and Pekona apologized to the laughter and jeers, then lay there very chastely until everyone went to sleep.
 
——
 
Ylawes thought he’d not stop blushing the next day, but thankfully, everyone wanted to try Evor’s new blade, and they’d realized the Silver Swords had more such weapons.
Traveller’s Pact indeed. It saved the Silver Swords from worrying about losing a blade, and more than one of the other groups tried to lure the Silver Swords into a dice game to win another piece, but it was all business that morning.
Some of the remaining bread and soup was breakfast, with a porridge of water and lump of sugar or taste, or just dried meat. The boats were being taken down and each of the three groups of Cenidau warriors was heading off, again.
“We’re bound westwards. Don’t stray too far. We’ll meet at that bluff of rocks where the river splits around it if we hear nothing from each other for two weeks, agreed?”
Evor conferred with the other two leaders, and a woman with huge scars on her arms from fighting a ‘polar bear’, whatever that was, nodded.
“Safe travels. We’ll visit these Gnolls, if only to sing with them. Silver Swords, may we meet again as friends! Follow the Giants!”
The other two groups departed the cave as Evor’s team turned to the Silver Swords. He grinned as they packed up their gear, then gestured. It was still raining, though there was a lot more visibility with the daylight.
“Well then. Shall we?”
Thus began the Silver Swords’ time with Cenidau’s warriors. The rain did not let up for four more days, and the terrain grew more rocky as vegetation disappeared and the landscape resembled some kind of stone-blasted world of odd, tall columns of rock and black sand. It was not easier on the feet nor any drier from above.
But somehow, it was so much better for the company.
 
——
 
It was a mentality thing. Ylawes was used to mostly silence in the long treks each day—it had been so exhausting first escaping from the New Lands that they had needed every breath of air to keep going.
Even afterwards, the rain meant conversing was hard. Evor’s people joined the Silver Swords, but unless they were walking right next to each other and half-yelling, no one could carry on a conversation.
“Thker will locate us a shelter in the evening! Until then, we march! This ground is hard—not fit for life! Best to pass it if we can!”
Ylawes nodded.
“I agree, Evor! Have you ever seen the like?”
To his surprise, it was Rigalde who nodded.
“A few times! It reminds me of lands around a volcano! All stone like this. I wonder…if this came from the sea’s floor, if it were the same! It makes for unpleasant footing, but we’ll fear less monsters unless one hides amongst the gravel!”
That was a boon; Evor’s group were not ignorant of the dangers. They marched, carrying their longboat with those odd straps, upside-down so water would not collect in the hull. It looked heavy, but between fourteen, they seemed able to move fast enough.
The straps on the ship confused Ylawes until he saw how they worked. Each warrior could cinch it up to their shoulders, adjusting the length of the fabric. That way, they could all carry it at an even level; otherwise, their disparate heights would have meant shorter members like Styrvi would have to strain and bear more weight or they’d be carrying it unevenly the entire time.
It was just one of those things that spoke to the Cenidau group’s experience, and so, Ylawes gladly let them take lead. Evor set a brisk march, not beyond reason, especially if the Silver Swords could trade off, and they set across the long, flat terrain. There was nothing for as far as the eye could see; just black gravel and, sometimes, distantly the hills that stood out, mounds of rock not yet ground into tiny pieces.
Bleak, unforgiving, but Ylawes’ spirits rose slightly at such an odd landscape.
I cannot imagine living here, but dead gods—I will never see the like again, perhaps. Places so few had ever witnessed. He walked with a will.
 
——
 
Four hours later, Ylawes’ feet hurt. The gravel was not pleasant, and the landscape had lost some of its appeal.
Fair enough. The Silver Swords looked a bit footsore and tired too, despite their fine night. Well, staying up so late had probably taken a bit of a toll as well, as had the drinks…but Ylawes’ main worry was falling behind Evor too much.
To his surprise, this wasn’t the case. Evor and his party set a dogged pace that was a nice clip, but they called breaks with good regularity. Ylawes supposed that the literal boat they were carrying along had to tax even seasoned warriors.
…Or was there something else in it? Larr was plucking rocks from his sandals and grousing, loudly, at their third rest stop.
“Damn stones! I hate this part of the New Lands! Unless all the stones are filled with gold, no one’s going to live here!”
He had a poor choice of footwear, and Anith, who was bare-pawed, seemed just as sick of it. Falene came over to enchant both’s feet with a minor [Tough Skin] spell to their relief.
“It might be a day of walking. Pace yourselves. Are the horses doing okay?”
“They might turn a hoof given the terrain, lad, but they’re good animals the Gnolls sold us. If they start to flag, we’ll rest. That alright, Evor? I know it’s not the pace you want.”
The [Hearthguard Leader] turned.
“Hm? That’s fine, Dawil. We’re moving quick enough. Ready to go? Styrvi?”
He nudged her with a boot; she was sitting down, and when he kicked her again, she growled.
“I’m ready, damn it! Go bother Thyke! When’s lunch?”
Lunch would be welcome. They did in fact stop for it after only two more hours, but Ylawes thought he saw another odd thing when they paused to break out travel rations—no fancy cooking.
Styrvi, Rigalde, and two other of the warriors were distinctly more tired than their counterparts. Thyke offered Styrvi his water flask, and she gulped it before tearing into some dried jerky—and she was sitting while Evor and two others strode ahead, hunting for game or anything else in this odd place.
“Lad, the stones here are very strange. Times like these, I wish I was actually as good with metal and stone as everyone thinks I am. Not much in the way of interesting things, but we’re checking out those stone columns. Want to come?”
Dawil jogged over, not looking much worse for the weather. Ylawes waved a hand.
“I’ll stay under shelter, Dawil.”
‘Shelter’ being a very small umbrella spell that Falene had cast to keep people out of the rain. Dawil ran off, and Pekona eyed him.
“How is he so energetic?”
“Level 30 [Warrior]. You’re not doing so badly yourself, surely.”
She glowered.
“Not…badly, no. But not as good as that.”
Ylawes himself didn’t feel like running after Dawil, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth had an endless bounty of energy, but there were advantages to being a [Warrior]. He was only footsore and fine despite the trekking with armor on. But as time wore on, the effects grew more noticeable on the civilians. And—some of the Cenidau warriors.
 
——
 
It was only the women. At first, it wasn’t that noticeable; just maybe a few more complaints when they went to rest, more sitting than standing, but by the time they were halfway through the day, it was clear to Ylawes that Evor, Thyke, and the men were doing well, but Styrvi and the other women were not.
Why on earth was that? Their classes sounded almost identical. [Shieldson], [Shieldmaiden]. However, Styrvi was so visibly tired by the sixth stop that Ylawes saw Thyke try to take her strap from her so she could walk without dragging the boat. When she snarled at him, he let her have it, but Evor’s team was tiring, if not at the same rate.
What was even more apparent was that Evor, Thyke, and the other warriors would rather keep trekking on without acknowledging it, even when it was obvious. In fact, they seemed grateful every time Homle or Petia requested a stop for the civilians.
“Dawil, you see that, right?”
“Sure do, lad. Looks like they don’t want to talk about it. But it is odd. Remember Briganda? She was as tough as any Gold-ranker. Her class is the same as theirs, isn’t it?”
“I think so. [Shieldmaiden]. Or [Shield Maiden]? I’m not sure, but it’s a kind of [Fighter] class that uses…a shield. That’s all I’ve got.”
Why were they flagging? Whatever the case, as the sun was beginning to set, it was abundantly clear that everyone was tired, and Evor called out.
“Thker! Shelter, I think! How far?”
The man obligingly cast around and grimaced when he got an answer.
“…Twenty-one miles, Evor. Due west.”
“What?”
Styrvi snapped, and Ylawes groaned with the others. Evor just sighed.
“His Skill finds the nearest thing that qualifies as shelter for us. Sometimes with trouble in it…but it must mean this place is as flat as it comes. We might have gone north or south to get around it. We march. Up, everyone, up! If we’re caught in the night, it will not be pleasant!”
True enough. Ylawes heaved himself up, and they began to march harder, now. In that respect, it was no more fun than the other days, was it? Except that as they began the hardest part of the day’s toil yet, Evor looked at his crew, then glanced at Ylawes and called out.
“Argh. Captain Ylawes, it’s no good.”
“What is?”
Was this already too much for their relationship? Friendship over, go find someone else to bother? Ylawes turned, a bit apprehensive, but Evor just grunted.
“We’ve been trying to put on a tougher face than we have. But you march well enough—we may have taken you and this land for granted. We need to raise our spirits and move faster. We’ll do what our people know; don’t think it’s an attack, eh?”
“Er, whatever you need to do, Evor. Of course.”
What did they intend? Ylawes watched as the Cenidau warriors nodded at each other. Rigalde produced something as they slowed just a step, and he saw a little object nestled in the crook of her arm.
A…drum? It was very compact, but when she slapped it with the palm of her hand, it made a deep enough tong. She began to strike the drums, setting a beat just a bit faster than their current pace. Accordingly, the fourteen warriors sped up.
That one’s going to be hard to copy. Ylawes was glancing at his teammates; even Infinitypear seemed tired by now, especially carrying Rasktooth. He was about to tell Evor to continue to the camp if they flagged when the man opened his mouth and bellowed a single word.
“Strke!”
It was no word that Ylawes knew. It was more of an exclamation than anything. The [Knight] jumped, and then he saw the rest of the thirteen explorers from Cenidau thrust their fists into the air.
“Strke!”
They marched faster, and Evor glanced over his shoulder. He raised his fist again as Rigalde struck the drums.
“Strke! Ná! Strke!”
It was some kind of chant. His crew echoed him, shouting every fourth step. They advanced another yard ahead of the Silver Swords, and Ylawes turned to blink at Dawil.
The Dwarf raised his brows, but then they were following Evor’s group, drawn into the pace of those drums. And the Cenidau warriors were marching faster.
“Strke. Strke. Strke!”
Now, Ylawes remembered when he’d met them for the first time yesterday—that’s what he’d been hearing on the water! They were marching and chanting, heedless of the sound they were making.
But it wasn’t…a Skill. Was it? It didn’t sound like one. Nor did it really look like they were gaining in stamina or going that much faster. They were just…
Ylawes felt like shouting a word at the top of your lungs every four steps should make it harder to carry a heavy wooden boat, and maybe it did. But something else made up for it, and that was just…morale.
Nor was it something only Cenidau was allowed to have. Ylawes only realized there were more than just the fourteen voices when he heard a familiar pair of voices shouting behind him.
“Strke! Yah! Strke!”
Rasktooth was punching a fist into the air and shouting in time with Evor’s people. So was Infinitypear. Ylawes almost told them to knock it off when he saw Thyke grinning. The warriors from Cenidau clearly didn’t mind the two little [Adventurers] singing with them. Quite the opposite.
And then Ylawes heard a breathless voice shouting behind him.
“Strike! Hey! Strike!”
Dasha didn’t quite get the wording right, but she was shouting with the others. And—Ylawes saw some of the colonists hesitate. As if embarrassed. Then Homle thrust a fist into the air as he hefted his pack.
“It’s a damn mining chant! Hear that, lads? Strke! Strke!”
His people took up the call, and then—
 
——
 
The Silver Swords and Cenidau warriors were marching across the black sand that mixed amidst the gravel of the same color. Volcanic stone inhospitable to almost all life.
Almost all life. Camouflaged creatures hunted the sands for prey that only lived here, and they sensed the new life and quested through the ground towards the two parties. But the strange sounds made the potential predators halt.
It was a shout in the air, from dozens of lungs, and the thump of massed steps. Like some multi-legged beast weighing a thousand pounds and with fifty pairs of lungs.
Uneasily, a twenty-foot eel slithered deep into the sand, avoiding a clash with this strange beast. Its kin followed suit.
Another beast of the gravel, whose body resembled the very rocks with a huge, round head of rough boulders and teeth of grinding stones, was wary, but still hung around. But then, when the continuous chant stopped and they began to sing, it backed up.
Whatever they were, they were big enough and seemed to move and act like one thing. Safer to eat the eels, not risk a new threat.
So onwards, the Silver Swords marched.
 
——
 
Singing. Chanting that word from Cenidau had a strange power that had to last at least an hour. By the end of the hour, Ylawes was shouting it with Pekona—and they’d been some of the last to join in, including Falene. It had been embarrassing, at first, but then Ylawes had found himself swept into the rhythm.
There was a strange exhilaration in just shouting that word en-masse with everyone else. Especially into the vast emptiness around them. But even that had to fade in efficacity, so what came next?
Well…
Songs. The first to sing was Evor, and he had a baritone voice and sang a song in the common tongue that Ylawes had never heard before.
The saga of a woman who went searching for the last Giant of Frost and sailed across the world to find him. Only to realize he was slumbering, the very mountain under which she’d lived all her life. He was joined by Styrvi, Thker, and Rigalde played her drum softer.
Then—
Ylawes didn’t know how to answer the silence after that first song, but two members of his party did. Rasktooth answered with a high-pitched lullaby that only he knew. A Cave Goblin’s song. Then Larr sang, embarrassed, but bringing a song from the tradition he recognized as similar to Cenidau’s.
Songs. Ylawes wished he had any to answer with after Styrvi led a reply-song from Cenidau, again. He knew House Byres’ anthem of course, but Dawil and Falene had told him it was the most embarrassing song in creation and he knew it didn’t fit here.
House Byres didn’t…have a great history of songs. Not songs you could sing without accompaniment. He would have called these drinking songs, but they weren’t quite. They were something else.
And there were no songs that the two groups had in common. Dawil knew some songs, and so did Falene, but the two were singing at each other until everyone seemed to recall that one song they surely would all know.
The only one that fit.
Great Plains Sing.
 
“So when my fur calls 
Me to seek the heart of stories.
To brave the world’s danger 
And lay eyes on sights unseen
 
Chasing long lost trails
Of our trials and our glories
To find the heart of stories sang to me.”
 
—The song drank up his exhaustion and turned this bleak, unending wasteland into an adventure. Ylawes’ ill-used imagination conjured a flying Gnoll and visions of grand vistas. Ramparts and ancient palaces rising out of the ground like he’d imagined as a boy, reading Tales of Adventure and Woe.
He forgot his tiredness, the weariness of his journey, and the circumstances that had forced him here. In fact, when they finally stopped, he was shocked to see another hill, this one studded with grassy patches and circling, gull-like birds, rising out of the ground just ahead of him.
The sun was almost set on the horizon. Ylawes stopped singing and coughed, and only then did his feet protest and he felt his legs grow leaden. He blinked at Pekona and realized they had sung the hours away.
“Was—was that a Skill?”
Rigalde was stowing her drums as Evor strode ahead, and Thker groaned as they put their boat down. She grinned at him.
“What self-respecting warrior of Cenidau would accept a Skill for that? If we need it to make music fit to take our exhaustion away, we’d as well hang up our weapons and retire. Not even a [Bard] could do finer than a thousand warriors of the north on the march. Barelle the Bard himself said he has no reason to play when our voices rise as one.”
Ylawes blinked at her, then ducked his head as she rubbed at her shoulders.
“I’m getting too old for this. But one last time…let’s get that food ready, eh? You southernfolk have the spirit to march with us after all.”
Coming from her, Ylawes thought it was the best compliment he might receive.
He was not wrong.
 
——
 
That night, Thker made his bread again as Ylawes helped with the fire. It was a smaller one, coal, since there was no fuel about save for the grass up top.
“What about the firewood we chopped? We couldn’t have used it all up.”
Ylawes was surprised, and Thker glanced at him.
“That? We left what was finished to dry in the cave.”
“Why?”
“For other travellers, of course. Is it not the way in the south to stock such places for those who come next?”
It was not, and that simple kindness embarrassed Ylawes, but Thker shook his head.
“The kingdoms of the south are rich, they say. I never went further beyond the Dominion, and what little I saw of it was fair indeed. It must be nice not to worry about such things.”
“Well, in this moment and in this place, I envy your knowledge, Thker. I never thought to make bread. It seems simple, but it’s so compelling…”
That pleased the man greatly, and he brushed at his braided beard before motioning Ylawes over.
“It’s not much, in truth. Just water, flour, and my secret—I paid dearly for this back home, and taking it across the sea was trouble enough.”
The bread was literally just flour from a bag he carried with him, a pinch of salt, some milk from a jug he sealed, and butter.
“It’ll work even without the milk. Flour ‘n water will do, but this is my pride. See?”
He showed Ylawes something, and the man wrinkled his nose at the weird…powder? It smelled odd and reminded him of a [Bakery].
“What is it?”
“Yeast. I bought it from a [Baker] whose bread I love; each kind’s different, and this is precious indeed. I put it in the bread to rise it each morning—unless we’re too busy.”
Yeast? Ylawes had no idea how bread worked, so Thker had to explain that it was this very stuff that gave it the ability to rise. The [Knight] frowned.
“I heard Octavia—an [Alchemist] I know—had made something that did the job, and the [Bakers] were in an uproar. So it’s valuable?”
“As much as gold, to me. Is her bread as fine as mine?”
Ylawes sniffed the bread baking on another flat stone, and his stomach rumbled.
“Honestly, I think this is the finest bread I’ve ever tasted, Thker.”
Another answer that pleased the man. He nodded.
“Then you remind yourself—yeast as well as flour, water, salt. You can carry it around and make it each night since it’s already ready, so long as your container’s sealed. You could do it yourself.”
Him? Ylawes protested he had no cooking Skills, and Thker rolled his eyes.
“Aye, that’s southerner talk. Nothing to be done unless you’ve the right Skills. I never got a single one for bread or cooking, but no one will have any but mine.”
He tossed more dough on the stone, and Ylawes sat there, thinking.
“Could I…try to fry some bread?”
That elicited a response, then instructions.
“Toss it on, then. Nice and flat after rolling it. Don’t hit the fire or everyone’ll kick your legs bloody. That’s a bite lost each time. It cooks so fast that once the stone is hot, less than a minute per side will do. Ach, don’t reach into the fire—”
 
——
 
A few burnt fingers later, Ylawes was very proud of himself as he showed his team the bread he’d helped fry up. They had a bounty as well.
“Birds! Looks like they eat worms or such around here. Don’t, uh, look at their guts. But we’ve skinned and gutted the lot. Rasktooth’s a damn good shot.”
“Is easy. You point, you shoot. None of this skill stuff.”
Rasktooth grinned as Larr held out a bundle of plucked and gutted birds for the cooks at the fire. The birds were so delicious-looking that everyone agreed it would be a waste to turn it into a soup.
So, fried they were. Ylawes listened to the crackle of the birds cooking with a bit of flour on them over pans, and while they weren’t much per-portion, there were enough of the birds nesting here to make a feast.
Somehow, it was even better than last night’s meal, and again, Evor insisted on bringing out the wineflask and giving everyone a dollop in their cups. Just a bit. Then they sat and began to tell stories.
What else was one to do as the rains kept hammering down? Ylawes went to pee in the pouring rain and stared at a wriggling worm with way too many legs feasting on the bird guts. He shuddered, stepped inside, and heard Rigalde’s voice as he moved over to the warm fire.
“Cenidau is one of the Hundred Kingdoms, it is true. But we are not the ones people think of when they think of Terandria. We’re the Northfolk, the barbaric folks like the Talgrit tribes. Other nations laugh at us, with their [Knights] and grand cities, and wonder why we still live like this, us, in the safest and richest continent of the world.”
“Some might argue that claim.”
Anith murmured, and she grinned at him.
“So would we, in the north! The Warm Cities are well enough; one can mine Everfrozen Ice for a living in the deep mines that run into the glaciers and be well enough, even if it’s so cold you’ll lose fingers if there’s but a gap in your gear. But others live on the very ice, which never melts. And there is nothing to farm, only fish and snow and the True Frost that kills everything.”
“Who’d want to live there? Uh, no offense.”
Dasha blushed as her team kicked her, and Rigalde chuckled. She had braided hair and sat, nursing her drink, as she spoke.
“In the days when Terandria was first founded by mortals, nowhere was safe. The Hundred Heroes had to fight for every inch of land, and Cenidau…yes, Cenidau was settled by one of them. In fact, our hero founded two kingdoms. Cenidau being one of them. But we don’t claim him, like the other kingdoms.”
“Hmm? Claim him? I do not understand, Miss Rigalde? Please explain, Comrade…like a Pisces would!”
Infinitypear was slightly drunk. Not on the tiny amounts of alcohol but the moment itself, and there was a chuckle. Rigalde nodded and pursed her lips.
“How to say it? One of the Hundred Heroes created our lands, protected our peoples, yes and yes. For that, we remember him. Cendayne the Archmage, whose magic created the Warm Cities. However, we do not venerate him. We do not claim his legacy, like other nations do. They still honor the Bow of Avel in the Kingdom of Bows; we do not. Oh, the Frost Courts and the Queen of Frost still act like other kingdoms, but away from them, we practice these traditions. Even our own language, though no one truly remembers more than a few words.”
She let the two of Poke Duo hold her helmet, which had beautiful curved horns on it. Rigalde nodded to that.
“Those come from wendigos I hunted myself. Their teeth.”
“These are teeth?”
Rasktooth exclaimed in dismay, and the warriors laughed. Evor murmured.
“Rigalde is a famous warrior in the north who’s led more hunts than I have. She’d be leading us if not for—”
She silenced him with a glance, and Rigalde took the helmet back, turning it over in her hands.
“No longer. I’m old, and besides…the tradition is to adorn your helmet with trophies of monsters slain. That way, your enemy knows who comes at them. This? My shield, our longships, these things do not come from Cendayne.”
“Who, then?”
For answer, all the Northfolk pointed a finger up. Rasktooth stared at the ceiling of the cave until Rigalde spoke.
“Giants.”
Like the word ‘Mithril’ of yesterday, the single explanation had Ylawes shivering, but with a kind of great joy. Rigalde smiled as her voice grew.
“We were huddled in the cities that Cendayne built when the first Giants looked down and saw us running in their lands. Most ignored us. Some made war against the Hundred Heroes and their descendants. Some took our sides for their own reasons. But a few decided to give us more. The first Giants to create Cenidau as it is now taught us our culture. How to swing an axe, how to survive the cold. Our words, our culture come from them.”
“Giants? Their people?”
Even Falene was incredulous; she might have heard the tale, but Rigalde had a way with words. The woman hesitated, then.
“No. The first Giant who taught us said it was not their ways, but something else. They taught us in honor of a people we would never meet. Old ways that only they remembered. Such is Cenidau, then. Scorned by the southern lands for honoring Giants over [Heroes].”
“Scorned until they invade us and freeze in the summer.”
Styrvi commented, and there was laughter from the rest. Ylawes sat there until he realized it was their turn. So, up rose Anith, walking forwards to speak.
“I am a Beastkin of Baleros, as you see me. A Jackal, of a small tribe whose numbers are less than a thousand. We are a dying species, for each group of us has waned. Beastkin come in all shapes and sizes, from Owl to Bear, from Dog to Cat—and we are reclusive indeed. For we have known war, slavery, and we are not vast enough to create our own Great Company, you see.”
He raised his staff overhead, spreading his arms to declaim boldly, with practice, Ylawes realized.
“Unlike the young species such as Selphids, Stitch-folk, we were here from the beginning. Hundreds of our species with cat faces, pig snouts, feathered wings and manes and scales—so vast we filled Baleros. But we made the mistake of so many species that have passed from this world. We fought each other, made petty wars, while our enemies bided their time and sharpened their fangs. Then our species began dying, and those that were yet vast thought themselves the winners, only to realize in turn, they too would fade and die. And when they howled for help, who came to their defense? Not the dead Beastkin. Only Gnolls. And then we were dozens. Dying…”
Well, this tale was getting dark fast. Insill nibbled at his claws and Rasktooth sat with a kind of weary familiarity—until Anith swept around and caught Ylawes’ eyes. Like a great storyteller, his eyes gleamed.
“As our species lay dying, all but a dozen extinct, there came salvation. A single man, a Dullahan, who restored dead species to life and who gave us a second age, a second chance. The greatest [Beast Master] to ever live. He was Level 85 when he died. His name was Sirriol, the Giver of Thoughts. This is the story we tell of him.”
 
——
 
Ylawes had never known that modern Beastkin were a product of a single person, a single class’ power. He listened to Anith’s tale of the [Beast Master] who had been so high-level that cats, dogs, every animal that had flocked to him had been given intelligence, even the power to change their forms. Restoring a dead species to prominence in Baleros.
Then of the struggles that had come after as their protector had died and they had been forced to band together, not infight, and survive. The Beastkin of the present era had established protective clans in Baleros’ northwest, having learned from their follies of old. After that, Thker told the story of his grandmother again, fully, and how she had ended up sleeping in the ice with a polar bear snoring in her ear.
It was too late to tell any more stories that night, so Ylawes slept, lying next to the fire and drifting off, dreaming of a Giant wielding an axe and teaching Cenidau’s people how to fight as he stood long vigil against Seamwalkers.
For that was what Pekona said Cenidau and Drath shared in common. They guarded the world from the horrors that came over the edge. A sacred mission both peoples had accepted.
Seamwalkers.
Where did they come from? Ylawes had never seen one. The world was so vast and bigger than he thought…and he only realized it now. He slept.
 
——
 
The Silver Dragon roared, each scale flashing with purifying light. A painful light, even; each scale seemed to reflect Ylawes’ sins, his wrath, envy, greed, and burn it away. He flinched, hands outstretched to shield his face, reaching for a sword, and the Dragon roared again.
“To me! To me! Hear me, you craven cowards who claim rulership over our kind! To me! The [Dancer] is dead, and the world trembles! They have overrun Rhir, and we must fly or die! To me, Dragonlords! If you have any honor, Terrium Archelis Dorishe, Khetieve-Xool, Aitendenske—fly! They’re…”
His voice trailed off, and he seemed to stare past Ylawes, and there was a chittering like a storm. The very world seemed to scuttle forwards. The Silver Dragon’s mouth opened as he rasped.
“They’re unending.”
Then he drew a breath, and Ylawes threw up his arms as the Silver Dragon blew a breath brighter than any light Ylawes had known. He screamed as it burned—
 
“—Ylawes, Ylawes!”
Someone shook him awake. Ylawes woke up, and Pekona was there—he wasn’t burning. He turned, and everyone was sitting up, staring at him.
“What—what?”
“Lad, you were screaming like someone plucked your eyes out.”
“I told you Pekona had cold feet.”
Insill muttered. Pekona threw a shoe at him.
“I do not!”
“I—I’m sorry. I had a dream. There was a Dragon and…”
And it was so real. Ylawes was panting, drenched in sweat. Falene peered at him.
“You’ve had that dream before, haven’t you? Is something wrong, Ylawes? What’s over there?”
“Over wh—”
Then Ylawes realized his finger was pointing. He stared at it; he was pointing at the wall of a cave, but Evor, Rigalde, all the warriors from Cenidau, were eying him. And Ylawes remembered.
[Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon]. His class. And his Skill…
[Legacy: Find the Dragon’s Grave].
The dreams had come again. Ylawes glanced around and knew, then, that they had truly returned to the New Lands. He was pointing north and slightly west. Towards the very same hills he had first gone to.
 
——
 
They did not head north. Mostly because west was where they were bound and because Ylawes didn’t feel ready to find any kind of Dragon, living or dead.
However, night terrors aside, both groups found themselves enjoying each other’s company more and more the next day and the day after that. Neither group spontaneously burst into song; it was something that Evor only used when they were truly tired.
“Or else it loses all meaning. So, when you are tired, do the same, eh?”
“I don’t know. That word you shout—what is it?”
Ylawes couldn’t imagine he’d do the same. Evor grinned.
“‘Strength’. That’s all. The word does not matter, just how loud you shout, eh? Ah, and here’s a change!”
They’d come to a river after a half day’s worth of marching. It seemed that this volcanic section was split by another river, and Ylawes was mightily glad to have persuaded Cenidau’s folk to join them, because this river…was long.
Not necessarily deep, though. It seemed to have tons of rocks and debris in it; rapids that led to whitewater. However, it’d still probably be too deep to walk across normally, and even if it was possible to find spots where you weren’t underwater…a boat was just the thing, eh?
“No help for it. We’ll have to ferry everyone across. Many trips. Let’s get started, eh?”
Cenidau’s people were only too willing to ford the river rather than march for days to find a better spot, and they split up, organizing so that they’d take as few as they needed to paddle the longboat across the river and the maximum amount of passengers.
It was still a very, very slow process. Especially because the horses, again, did not do boats or water well. However, Falene had been thinking of this issue and had come up with a rather ingenious solution.
“Floating bags. We tie them around the horses, and they swim for it. I can help secure them, but the flotation devices can just be waterskins or anything else that we can lash to them.”
It made the horses look sort of silly, but they could indeed float and swim on their own. Ylawes watched the first group set out across the river at a relatively calm point and realized it was no easy crossing, for all Evor was composed.
“Damn, that current’s strong, lad.”
The rain was letting up a bit, but the river was still strong enough that it sent the boat and horse downriver over three thousand paces. Evor just grunted.
“We’ll haul it back up the river. It’ll get tiring. You’ll need to row yourself!”
He clapped Ylawes on the shoulder, and the [Knight] nodded.
“We can do that. Just show us how not to capsize the boat.”
 
——
 
There was some challenge to it. The narrow longboat was pretty sturdy, but inexperienced passengers—which was everyone but the fourteen warriors—could still make it precarious, and Ylawes was quickly assigned to Styrvi and Thker, who had him and Dasha rowing.
He managed three trips across the river and back, hauling the boat up the river each time, before he got a break, and he sat with Thker, waiting for their turn to come again.
Ylawes’ arms burned, but Styrvi was the one who seemed thoroughly winded. She sat, panting, and he saw Thker’s eyes on her.
“Is she alright? We could trade off—”
“She won’t accept it. Best you not bring it up or you’ll lose your nose. There’s been blood shed on it, in Cenidau. And noses.”
Thker whispered back. Ylawes glanced over and saw Rigalde getting off the boat. She seemed visibly exhausted too, and Evor called out.
“Dawil, Larr, trade places!”
Rigalde appeared ready to argue, then came over to where they were and sat. She was panting, and when she saw Ylawes gazing at her—he tried to glance away, but she just grunted.
“Noticed…we’re not holding our own…Captain Ylawes?”
“I didn’t think that at all, Rigalde.”
She shook her head. Styrvi tried to get up.
“I can row. I was born for this, not some Dwarf and Gnoll—”
“Sit down, Styrvi. You don’t have the strength…neither do I. They were right. Right and wrong, back home.”
The younger woman lowered her head and seemed thoroughly miserable. Ylawes had to ask.
“Er, is it…is it a difference in classes, maybe? Do they get more endurance Skills and you all have different skillsets?”
He hadn’t seen Rigalde or Styrvi using as many Skills as Thker or Evor. At this, Styrvi barked a hollow laugh and turned away. Rigalde wore a pained smile.
“It is different classes, but it wasn’t always like this, Ylawes Byres. It’s a secret of sorts in Cenidau, but it won’t hurt to tell you; the nation knows, and if the world does not, it’s because few have our class.”
“No one else cares. We’re the ones cursed. Why us?”
Styrvi burst out. Thker began rebraiding his beard, and Ylawes blinked.
“What happened?”
Rigalde took another drink of water.
“The Winter Solstice. Something happened, then. We don’t know what. Only that every single [Shieldmaiden] in Cenidau, the world over—Styrvi, myself—young and old, highest to lowest-level, we all lost our class. It was turned into something else. [Shield Maid].”
“A joke.”
Styrvi moaned, and Thker studied his boots. Ylawes felt like someone had kicked him.
Briganda.
Winter Solstice.
Halrac.
It always went back to The Wandering Inn. He didn’t even know how, not fully. Only that he knew, when Rigalde told him of the woes that had countless warriors in Cenidau reconsidering their futures, it was all tied up with the inn. The battle at the Floodplains.
An entire class changed. Just like how Oswen had vanished.
Casualties of someone else’s war.
 
——
 
“Some think it’s a sign. I’ve read the Book of Levels; I barely thought of it, and now there are some who say women were never meant to war. [Shield Maid] should mean we go back to our homes.”
“After we finished breaking bones, we started arguing. Our class…[Shieldmaiden] was strong. It let us fight and voyage. [Shield Maid] is worse. It has some defensive Skills. But it is not as close to [Warrior] as before. Cleaning Skills, utility-Skills—we’re weaker.”
Rigalde and Styrvi told Ylawes of their problems as they sat and watched the boat crossing in the rain. He rested there, unsure of what to say. He didn’t know it was the inn’s doing, only that his instincts screamed it was how this had happened. More importantly, he didn’t know what had caused this.
“Why did you come to the New Lands, if there were such worries? I imagine some people might have tried to…dissuade you from going.”
Rigalde nodded, and her eyes slid to Evor.
“We didn’t ask. We went. It’s why we took longships and didn’t go with the others. This is for us as much as to see the New Lands. We want to prove we can continue. Or find a way our classes can.”
So they were challenging the New Lands with classes not meant for this kind of thing. Ylawes swallowed. Small wonder they couldn’t make the same speed as before.
“Surely you have Skills that make up for what you lost?”
“Oh, some. But not the ones I bled for. For instance, see how shiny our armor is?”
Rigalde slapped her armor, and Ylawes realized it was very bright, especially for people who’d been in the rain and mud for days. He’d put it down to the animal fat and good maintenance, but Rigalde snorted.
“[Unit: Tailor-Fresh Attire]. We’ll be rustless and our armor polished when we’re all gutted by the next monster. Styrvi, tell him one of your best Skills.”
She nudged Styrvi, and the [Shield Maid] was silent until she snapped.
“[Steelcloth Sheets], alright!? I can make a tablecloth so damn hard it blocks arrows—and it’s why I wear this!”
She pointed to her cloak, which, Ylawes realized, was just a simple cotton sheet stolen from, well, a bed. It became a cloak as hard as any Gold-rank adventurer’s gear, but it wasn’t…Styrvi stared at the ground.
“I used to have [Lesser Strength]. [Greater Endurance]. [Marrowstrike]. [Longpull Oars]. Now what am I good for?”
Thker drained his water flask.
“I’d trust you with my back over any southerner any day, Styrvi. Even if you lost every single Skill.”
“Some days, I wish that had happened. Then I’d be able to start again. I can’t even level the same.”
Rigalde nodded. She turned to Ylawes.
“I’ve taken [Drummer] as a class, and I’m levelling that. We’ve done well enough, but that’s why we didn’t fight the Landsharks. We would have, but…Evor can’t count on us the same way. We don’t know our Skills, and we don’t have the training to be [Maids].”
She shrugged as the boat came back. Ylawes didn’t know what to say. ‘Sorry’ sounded wholly inconsequential to what they were going through.
In silence, the group got into the boat for one of the last trips across. Thker was playing with his things, not sure what to say to his companions. Rigalde had clearly been a famous [Shieldmaiden] until losing her class. Now…
Thker was mixing up some flour dough with that yeast, shielding the precious stuff from the rain with his own cloak, when a rush of water struck the boat. He cinched both dough bag and yeast bag fast, but when he went to tuck them away, he smacked the bag of yeast instead.
“Giant’s blood—”
It went into the water, and Thker swore. He stood up as the boat rocked, and Ylawes saw the little bag floating, bobbing in the river.
“My yeast!”
“Thker, don’t be a fool. Just let it go—”
Rigalde warned him, but the [Shieldson] hesitated, then swore.
“It’s my treasure, hold on—”
He leapt into the water with a splash, and Styrvi swore.
“You idiot! Wait, it’s not cold.”
“He jumped in, armor and all!”
Styrvi and Rigalde chorused.
“He can swim. But he’s still a fool. Thker, get back here!”
He was paddling after the bobbling bag of yeast as people on the other side shouted at him. Evor was roaring at Thker, and Ylawes was trying to get the boat to go after the man as Rigalde and he heaved. Then he heard a shout.
“I’ve got it!”
Falene yanked the bag of yeast out of the water as Thker tried to pursue it; it had been going far faster than he could swim. She pulled it over to her, and he relaxed as a cheer went up, then turned his head sheepishly.
Rigalde rolled her eyes.
“Fool! Get over here, now!”
He was paddling back, protesting that how was he supposed to know Falene could do that, when Dasha leaned over the side of the boat.
“Uh, Ylawes? Something’s in the water. Something big—”
Styrvi turned, and Ylawes saw a long shape moving towards Thker. Something was indeed in the water, and the horses, if not the boat, had attracted—
“Thker! Monster!”
“What? Where? Wh—”
The gigantic reptile burst out of the water, and its long snout opened and bit down on Thker’s shoulder. The alligator and man vanished in the depths, and the river became a churning mess as Styrvi shouted.
“Thker!”
Rigalde had a throwing axe drawn, but she was staring into the water.
“I can’t see. Get me closer! Don’t get in there, there could be m—”
She was shouting at the others, and Ylawes heard that last bit a second too late. Because he was already leaping into the water. He saw Rigalde’s alarmed expression—then it was cold, silent, and deep.
No matter what Styrvi thought, it was freezing to Ylawes, and the water filled his armor at once. He was leaden, and he could barely see in the churning, but he saw the crocodile thrashing around as it tried to drag Thker under.
Ylawes drew his sword and tried to shout.
[Knight’s Challenge]! He had no breath in the water, and his sword was so slow as he swished it at Thker. The man was struggling, trying to slam his axe against the jaws over his shoulder, which were in turn scraping at his armor. They were thrashing around so much Ylawes couldn’t get close—so he grabbed the tail of the huge crocodile, which had to be at least twelve feet long, and began to stab!
His sword, again, was leaden as the water made every motion slow, dreamlike. However, the crocodile did not like being grabbed and began to thrash harder. His sword tip struck its thick hide, and Ylawes heaved, trying to pierce the scales.
Was it working? He thought was stabbing a bit, but he couldn’t see blood. His lungs were burning, Thker was thrashing slower, and it was so damn cold…
So cold.
Beyond the river’s cold, in fact. Ylawes stared as the crocodile’s thrashing slowed, and he saw something in the water.
Was that…frost running up his blade? His Gravesword was piercing the crocodile’s hide, and when Ylawes stabbed again, the animal stopped thrashing. Its jaws didn’t loosen, but it hung in the water as Ylawes thrust the blade deeper into its side. Thker was trying to kick his legs, but the animal was on him. Ylawes let go of his sword.
We’re drowning down here. We have to get up.
He began kicking for the surface, trying to haul both animal and man up. But it was a lot deeper than he thought. The river was sweeping him away, and he—
He needed to take a breath. The drowning [Knight] felt his jaws begin to open as he convulsed. And then—
Evor splashed down next to him in a shower of bubbles, along with Insill, another warrior, and Dawil. They had weapons drawn, but when he saw the dead crocodile, Dawil just slow-motion ran over and heaved Thker up, standing on the riverbed. Insill grabbed one arm of Thker, kicking, and Evor seized the crocodile’s body and Ylawes—
They burst out of the water, and Ylawes gasped for air. Sound resumed, and he heard shouting.
“There they are! Ylawes, get to shore!”
“Is Thker there?”
“Get to shore! More of the things are coming!”
Ylawes’ head spun, and he saw everyone on the bank and the boat coming their way. He began kicking; there was [Light], he realized. Falene had fired a [Light] spell right above them all, and it let him see into the water.
Thker was gasping in the group fighting to get to shore, face pale, blood running from his arm, and Insill was sawing at the croc’s teeth.
“Damn, it’s too tight—”
“Just drag them ashore! Hurry!”
Evor pointed, and more crocodiles were moving at alarming speed their way. However, this time, the [Hearthguard Leader] barked.
“[Intimidating Shout].”
He put his head under the water, and the exclamation that reverberated in the water made the animals flinch back. That bought them time; Ylawes had just found the riverbank’s edge when he sensed another crocodile coming up. He spun—and a throwing hatchet thunked into the crocodile’s head as it tried to open its mouth.
Rigalde leapt onto the shore and joined the crowd hauling everyone ashore. Ylawes stumbled onto the ground, then lay on his back as he panted for air. After a moment, he croaked.
“My sword. Did I lose my—”
“Here!”
Pekona had grabbed it. Ylawes saw Thker puking water out, Dawil cursing as he sloshed ashore, Evor telling everyone to get back from the water if those things came on land—and then Thker rasped.
“Did you get my yeast?”
Falene had the bag of yeast. Thker smiled right before Styrvi stomped on his stomach, and he threw up more water. Ylawes Byres sat there a second, then had a thought.
“I remember where I’ve heard of it before; I think Erin eats yeast on popcorn.”
Thker’s head rose, and he gave Ylawes a bug-eyed look.
“Yeast? On popcorn? That’s disgusting.”
 
——
 
The end result of that little adventure was the salvation of Thker’s good bread, a waterlogged, sheepish, but fine [Shieldson], and a dead crocodile.
Thker was mostly just bruised; the crocodile hadn’t managed to bite through his armor, and the few dents it had caused vanished as Styrvi fixed him up.
“[Restore Apparel]. Paugh. Hold still. [Quick Stitching]!”
“Aurgh, less quick, less pain!”
Evor had decided to make camp after that incident, and he’d gone riding off on a horse to find a good site. He announced it was not far; a forest, actually, not caves this time.
“We’ll need to secure it. At least we have food this time.”
“What f—oh.”
The dead crocodile was very dead and very cold, apparently. Rasktooth was poking it.
“It all frozen up. Probably tasty. Probably. Your sword do good job killing things, Captain.”
“Yes. I can see why your team follows you, Captain Ylawes. On behalf of my people, I thank you.”
Rigalde had not managed to recover her hatchet from the waters, but she sat, smiling in relief—and guilt. She gestured at Thker.
“I was too slow to jump in. I wondered if without my levels…bah. It was a brave thing you did.”
“And stupid!”
Falene was furious at Ylawes for taking that risk, especially because he might have drowned in his armor, but Rigalde just smiled.
“We have a saying in the north. Better to be a brave idiot than a clever coward. You can be highborn, cunning, and all the rest, but no warrior will follow someone like that into battle if they won’t go first. I’ve seen idiots with not a lick of sense in their heads lead armies because they’ll run in first. You can’t buy that. Your fool’s not bad.”
Falene sniffed.
“Well, your fool seems quite capable. Sometimes, I’d trade a bit of bravery for a bit less fool.”
Ylawes flushed as he sat there, and Rasktooth grinned. It was Insill who piped up, slapping Ylawes on the back with a squelching sound.
“That’s why we like Captain Ylawes, alright! If we’re all drowning in the water, I know he’ll be drowning right next to us!”
As ringing endorsements went, it wasn’t exactly what Ylawes wanted, but he just held his tongue and privately tried to suggest to Rasktooth that he was fine with just bread. Thker had plenty for him for saving his life. Unfortunately, Rasktooth had decided to give Ylawes the prime cut of crocodile.
It was…alright. Very gamey and tasted like fish and chicken combined. The freezing effect hadn’t done it much good. On the plus side, there was so much of it everyone got a big portion.
Yum.
 
——
 
Then the rains stopped. And six rainbows split the sky, shimmering into wide arcs that had no ending on the ground, but crisscrossed the horizon for all of a day.
Ylawes Byres stopped and stared upwards until a buzzing cloud of midges arose—and Falene promptly hit them with a cloud spell. They continued.
Cenidau’s warriors, singing, marching with the Silver Swords as they crossed from the river into the grasslands once more and, at last, began to see signs of life. A bounding gazelle with bright blue markings that leapt out of the way of Larr’s arrow and a thrown spear.
A flock of little birds who burst into the air and scolded like a cloud of upset mosquitos until Rasktooth winged one, and the entire flock burst into chaos, fleeing in every direction.
The stars under a vibrant, deep blue sky, and fireflies flitting around their fire, dancing under the moons.
Stories. Rasktooth had been a bit sad when he asked Pekona, wistfully, about Drath. The place that had so many with his class that he would never go to.
“I guess them young masters is all over, hey? Arrogant people with big nose lifted, throwing their money around? Is I gonna be like that? Is that what Drath like?”
Pekona had looked astonished and sat him on her lap, shaking her head. Infinitypear had instantly tried to sit on Pekona’s lap, but being far too big for that, had been upset.
That was how Ylawes found the Antinium perching on his lap as they listened to Pekona’s story, Cenidau warriors as fascinated as everyone else.
“That? That’s not Drath, Rasktooth. I just…complain like that, because it’s my home. There are many beautiful things about Drath. Sometimes, I forget myself.”
“Oh, like how I talk about Raskghar and the dungeon having evil worms and Facestealer and not about the good parts.”
“Um. Yes?”
“There no good parts. You go on.”
Pekona laughed, and then stared past Rasktooth, at a place only she could see. She was massaging his scalp with her hand, and he lay back, meditating or just listening.
“Drath has many beautiful things. They have trees that blow pink cherry petals in the spring and fall. They’re…very annoying to sweep up.”
“You not doing a good job of this.”
“Shh. They’re annoying until you go up to the cliffs where there are thousands of them and sit beneath them. Then it’s like a snowstorm without snow. They drift across the world until it’s all pink and white. And there are koi fish.”
“Oh. I know them. They in Erin’s—”
“Shh, brother. You are interrupting the story!”
Infinitypear hopped up and down, then turned to Ylawes.
“Captain, your lap is very much less pleasant than Pekona’s.”
“I know.”
“Are you going to fix this issue?”
Infinitypear stared at Ylawes’ face, then swivelled around as Pekona giggled.
“Koi fish, yes. But big ones. They were fed too much by one of our [Emperors], so there are koi fish so big they can eat ships. They circle one of the harbors, but they never eat anyone…or they spit them out if they do. Because Drath was once bigger, there are wonders there. Even among cultivators.”
Her voice grew low.
“There is a place in the cities where everyone walks a strange way. It looks like some long, vast maze. Only, they all flow towards a center, each person walking the path that forms a pattern you can only see from above. To disrupt the pattern is a crime. They channel their very energy, the flow of things, into a hanging needle at the center of the pattern. Each day, it drops a single drop down. A hundred drops will condense until it makes a single pill that the [Emperor] himself awards to a chosen subject.”
“What it taste like?”
She pulled at one ear.
“I don’t know, silly. But there are feasts in the palace, and if you were rich enough to go to the cities, you could eat a thousand thousand new things, each day, and never run out. Little blue shrimp, invisible octopi that you stain with sauce to see, spicy red…what’s the leaf thing Dasha hates?”
“Cabbage.”
“That. On crackling, oil beds of pork, and if you’re lucky, you’ll find a woman with fox ears who begs for your tofu.”
“…Do I have to give her my tofus?”
“Yes, it’s very good luck. Or so they say. I think they just want tofu. They’re older than half-Elves and can cast great magic.”
“Hah! I’ve heard of these ‘ki-tsu-ne’, and personally, I think they’re just a Beastkin tribe that—”
Someone shoved a piece of crocodile into Falene’s mouth to shut her up, and Pekona went on, painting an image of Drath, full of great mythical objects and broken dreams from the dawn of time. A vast, vast place now reduced to islands. Resplendent in beauty until a Seamwalker arises and it becomes blood and determination.
“Someday, I’ll take you there.”
“And pay for my tofus?”
“Yes, and them.”
“I’d like to visit that myself.”
Ylawes murmured, and he realized he wanted to with all his heart. To see this land Pekona described, even if it was not always so beautiful as that, and he had to deal with a young master doing…whatever they did. He wanted to see a world beyond Izril’s shores.
How short his journeys seemed when he regarded Evor and the Cenidau folk who’d come a continent away for the New Lands. Ylawes stared up at the sky and sat as Evor began to tell the story of his uncle, who’d gone to Drath with a bag of gold and come away without his bag of gold, or his sword, but a son.
For a while, as it happened, again and again, the misery ended. Ylawes found he once again was enjoying the New Lands.
This time…
The feeling didn’t vanish at once. So the Silver Swords stayed in the company of the Cenidau warriors until they reached a place in the grasslands that other caravans were headed to. A gathering spot that just popped out when Rasktooth used a spyglass.
The first settlement in the New Lands that Ylawes had ever seen. A place called Woll’s Waystation. Who should he meet there but a Gnoll, riding west after visiting an inn. And there came a Goblin that Ylawes knew—another one, rather, flying south after witnessing miracles and tragedy alike.
Last of all, bringing along his own sorry company, eyes fixed on the horizon and adventure, just like all of them, came the [Gunslinger].

10.63 RY (2026-04-25)

“Hey. You know, I never asked your name. Mine’s Erin. Erin Solstice.”
She watched his eyes widen, and he inhaled sharply. He half-slouched in his seat across from her, legs astray across the stone bench, not quite looking directly at her.
“…Mine’s Russell.”
No last name. He was cautious here, because he knew everything he said was true. But still, he told her his name. The smells of another world clung to him still. He probably thought they did not; his clothing was marked by grass and dirt, and he carried a hunter’s vest and the closest thing to this world’s belt pouches she had ever seen.
But the smell of bug repellant marked him, along with the faintest odor of oil, soot, metal, the pollutants that seemed so foreign after years here. The [Gunslinger] peered up, and she thought she saw him shiver.
“I know you. You’re on the list. The Spirited Generation. You were one of the first.”
She didn’t react to the knowledge a world was seeking her. Not one twitch. Her eyes focused on Russell, and whatever he believed, whatever he thought of her—the [Innkeeper]’s next words had gooseflesh rising on his body again.
“I dreamed of Earth when I died. I remember that.”
“So death’s just like a game, like Arnie’s been saying? You can come back from it?”
“No.”
“But you said—”
“You won’t come back. I got lucky.”
That annoyed him. His already-stubborn chin jutted out, and he brushed at his short, black hair, like a nest of black chickadees crammed under a camo-pattern cap, unused to regularly seeing sunlight. His voice was gravelly until he coughed, thumped at his chest, but it still rasped with a distinct challenge as he met her eyes at last.
“If one person made it, anyone could, right?”
She didn’t blink. After a moment, the [Gunslinger] glanced down at his lap. For a weapon he didn’t carry. Not here. Erin nodded, which surprised him.
“Anyone could, that’s true. But don’t count on it, Russell. It’s the chance of a lifetime, like winning the lottery. Don’t count on that.”
Russell’s head rose again, and she sat there, hands folded in her lap. After a second, he ducked his head once more.
“Right, that makes sense.”
Sorry. He didn’t quite get the word out. Not sure if he should say it, and then—the moment was gone. It lingered on his tongue, and then the real question floated in his mind.
How’d you die? How’d you come back? But he found it so hard to ask, so he studied her instead. Wariness, excitement, annoyance—he’d been flitting through emotions. And again, his perception of her changed. The hair he’d thought was dyed and annoying, like Honarai’s bright, stylish demeanor…
No, that wasn’t a dye. He saw more scars every time he looked up. Ear, neck, hands, ones he hadn’t even recognized as scars. A faded cut along one cheek, a gash up her arm, and those were the ones he could see.
Something was…off about some of her teeth. They looked sharper than usual. Everything she was made his heart beat faster in excitement and also—wariness. This was no dream. Not that he’d woken from it for…
“How long have you been here?”
“About a week and a half.”
“So short.”
“How long’ve you been here?”
He knew the answer. Ten years. Ten years—his skin was crawling, waiting for her to say—
“Two years and a bit, I think.”
He blinked and blurted out.
“Impossible. It’s been ten years! But you—”
He realized something.
“You look like your pictures. Well, sort of—you don’t look old enough.”
Not by far. And she took the news about how long it had been, barely blinked. Like a war vet, he thought. Took a blow on her chin and just stood up and kept going, all adrenaline. Her scars.
What the hell did they do to her? Erin Solstice blinked once, and that was it. As if she’d known time had passed and the rest was just mildly unpleasant. One more wound on the pile.
“Time’s different here, Russell. So it’s been ten years back home? Did they elect Jeb Bush as president?”
The first laugh of the conversation burst out of Russell, full of incredulity.
“…What? No, no—you thought he—how’d you know that? It was—”
Then he hesitated, because he wasn’t sure he wanted to get into politics with her. He’d already engaged with Chester once on that and regretted it. Never get to talking about politics with clients. Rule of his job from home. Just smile and agree to anything stupid she said. But Erin just tilted her head.
“I guess that was the lie in the dream. Nevermind.”
“When you were dead.”
“Yep. Sorry. I know this is all confusing, Russell. Just—let me tell you what’s important, in case we run out of time.”
She was yawning, and he sat forwards, hunching, wishing he had notes. There was a notepad on the chess board across from him, and a pencil. He blinked at it. That hadn’t been there—
When he glanced up, the hazel eyes caught him again, and she was smiling.
“I was told you’re a dangerous guy, Russell. Not a bad guy, but someone I should meet. I get why. You’re the only [Gunslinger] I’ve ever met. You might be one of the only Earthers armed. You’ve got the class—what level? Until you’re Level 30, you’ll be in danger, gun or not.”
One of the only Earthers with a gun? Really? He was skeptical about that—someone had to have been carrying. But it made him smile.
“Level 14.”
“So soon. In just a week and a half?”
“No, I got it when I landed.”
“You did?”
Another exchange, and he faltered.
“You didn’t get a class?”
“It didn’t work like that when I arrived or for anyone I know. The rules are changing. Good. Tell me—when you got your class, [Gunslinger], was it green?”
“Green? No…classes can be colors?”
She was staring past him.
“So there’s at least one other person. Green means ‘new’. Red’s bad. Gold is royalty, purple’s law or something—I don’t know all the rules.”
“Is there a book? A…manual? Like in a video game or something? I’ve never played ‘em, but we have an ‘expert’.”
His mouth wrinkled up at that, head swivelling for somewhere to spit, but this was all too grand and important to sully with that. Her lips quirked.
“No, no manual. And this is no game, Russell. So you are armed.”
“Yep.”
Did she want one of his weapons like the others? Or did she have some kind of plan? His guard went up again, but she kept undermining his suspicions. As if she could read him like an open book.
“Keep them hidden no matter what. If people see you have them or what they can do, they’ll take them from you.”
“No fear. None of them are leaving my side.”
She leaned forwards, and this time, he had to take her seriously. The pressure she exerted meant she wasn’t an idiot running her mouth, a know-it-all gazing down on him. The scars…he’d seen terrible hunting accident scars, wounds from accidental discharges. Even a man who’d been mauled by a bear. Never anything quite like that.
“They’ll take them from you, Russell. There are armies, [Assassins], [Thieves] who can steal the dreams from your sleep. Keep them hidden. There are things in this world you can’t shoot dead. Got it?”
A slower nod. Then her face wrinkled up as she yawned, and she became a person again.
“Wait. Did you just imply you’ve got guns plural?”
“Yep.”
He grinned. She eyed him.
“What kind?”
She didn’t seem to know firearms at all, so he said it in the simplest way she’d get.
“Revolver, shotgun, .308 bolt action.”
“That’s a lotta guns. What, do you collect them or something? How did you have three on you when you got here?”
His brows rose.
“I was on a hunting trip.”
She gave him a sharp look, then her lips quirked up. Russell had to ask.
“Who told you I was dangerous?”
“My Skill. You may well be the most well-armed Earther in the world, Russell. [Gunslinger] indeed. Now, tell me where you are. Which species have you been seeing?”
“…None? Just the others I arrived with. There’s four of ‘em and me.”
She frowned.
“Landmarks?”
“I don’t see much. Hills north of here. Maybe some mountains far, far off east, assuming the sun rises and sets like it does back home. The grass’s yellow. There was a tower we passed a few days ago, but it made my head ring. [Dangersense], I think.”
“Yellow grass…I don’t know that. Chandrar? Alright, then when you get to civilization, this is what I’d do. I’ll contact you as often as I can, but I might be busy or missing.”
She appeared sick. He nodded as he picked up the pencil and began to crib notes in an untidy scrawl.
“Wish my phone were working. Do I get to keep this?”
He waved the notepad at her and saw, for a second, her eyes light up with mischief and wonder. He eyed her and she grinned.
“Right. There’s so much I have to tell you. You can recharge your phone, but you’ll need a [Mage] for that…”
Then he was grinning too. She was everything he wanted this world to be.
The others…not so much. That had been a while ago. Before one of the moons cracked.
 
——
 
He had a feeling he was missing something. Well, a lot of things. Russell T. Morgan wished Erin Solstice would summon him to her mysterious gazebo-thing again, but she’d said she couldn’t check on him all the time.
Maybe she was busy as she said, or the moon cracking meant something big was happening. He didn’t like that.
Russell felt like he was behind, and he hadn’t even seen a single other person aside from his companions and Erin Solstice. But when you peered up and saw the moon crack like it was a piece of glass in the sky, well…
It made him pick up the pace until he heard complaints, and he sighed loudly. Then he turned his head, and the yellow grass he was trudging through, with yellow beetles, strange creatures bounding around, all the things he longed to go out and explore, was replaced by too-familiar ire.
Here he was in another world and he was doing his job again. Escorting idiots. Russell trudged back through the grass, his long boots and mud-green pants scattering midges and beetles, even a black lizard which went scurrying away. He stared at the orange, glowing bands on its side.
Most beautiful damn lizard I’ve seen in my life. He’d have caught it in a heartbeat and taken it to some scientist or the zoo back home, dropped everything to grab it because it was magic.
Here? It was one in a thousand, and he’d still have gone tearing after the lizard except that he was afraid his ‘team’ would wander off or get themselves hurt while he was gone.
Also—he was a bit weighed down. Russell had his long rifle on his back, shotgun in his hands, and revolver at his hip. A lotta metal, let alone the ammunition in the magazines in his vest, belt, and backpack.
He wished he were twice as heavy. If he was back home and known that he’d be here, tomorrow, he’d have bought up everything he could lay his hands on. And taken his pickup truck. And brought his .45 carbine. Which would have been complete and utter overkill for this trip, but in hindsight…
Well, the others didn’t have a single weapon between them, not even a knife, so Russell considered himself lucky enough. He hadn’t even put down his pack; he’d come with a tent, bedroll, and necessities all stuffed into the huge pack that he was having Chester carry.
Actually, again, not that fair; Honarai had a stun gun. But as ‘guns’ went, well…Russell would trust what he had before he relied on the others for anything. Especially because, and he wanted to ask Erin about this the next time they met—
Was there somewhere he could leave this lot? Or a way to get more directions? She’d told him to find civilization, but it seemed like they were really out in the boonies, even by his standards. Then again, no cars…and they were not marching fast.
“Hey, we’ve got to keep moving. What’s with the stop?”
He approached the four people sitting around in the tall grass. One of them was sitting on his pack—which made Russell’s eye twitch. The tallest among them, Chester, called over casually.
“Lenora’s got bugs in her sandals. They’re biting her.”
“Okay, but let’s keep moving, huh?”
Russell couldn’t argue with that, but he was impatient, and Chester gave him a smile.
“Give us one second, Russell, huh?”
Russell didn’t like Chester. Well, to be fair, he wasn’t sure he liked Honarai, Arnie, or Lenora either. They’d all appeared more or less together; he’d seen Honarai land within sight of him, and the rest had all heard him firing a shot and come this way.
Each one from a different part of America, even if Lenora wasn’t actually American. Which, he supposed, meant they were all on the same side, if it wasn’t all just Team Earth. Erin hadn’t said anything about a headquarters or something.
There had to be someone from the army, right? Even if it was only people around Erin’s age. Not that Russell was planning on necessarily joining the military if they were forming one here; good way to come back with too many war stories and looking like you’d been through hell. But any group from Earth could use an explorer, someone who was a good shot and knew bushcraft, right?
That was him. Russell felt, strongly, that he was useful. And he knew he was indispensable to the survival of this team—but he rather disliked being so vital right now.
Lenora was fiddling with her sandals again, and he got it, really. If he’d been in his house with nothing more than a digital pen that was all plastic and useless—not even her cellphone on her—then he’d be in trouble. The sandals weren’t even hers; they’d had to make some out of some of his camping gear (the hunting blind).
He knew it was dead weight, probably, but it still made him mad to have to cut it up and then abandon it because the rest of the group claimed it was too heavy. It was well used, and he’d gotten it for sixty dollars at Home Depot, but it was his.
Anyways, the sandals were terrible, just held together with some cord, and Lenora was shaking little ants out of them. She didn’t complain, which was good of her; she was Canadian. Visiting from Toronto when she’d gotten nabbed.
He’d never been. He’d heard there was good hunting in the U.P. of Michigan and had always been meaning to take a trip when he’d saved up. Maybe even move and work up there for a change. But she was utterly unlike him.
A [Digital Artist], who did…art. Colorful cartoon animations or something like that. Kid’s shows. Her class was not useful here. None of theirs were, except maybe Arnie’s, and he…Russell cleared his throat after it looked like she’d gotten the bugs out.
“We good? Let’s get moving. We have to keep going or we’ll never get out of here.”
“C’mon, Russell, let’s take a breaaaak. We’ve all got blisters. Everyone’s tired. You go scouting or hunting or something, okay?”
Honarai was of mixed ethnicities. Latino-Asian or something, and Russell only knew that because Chester had done the group circle thing the first night to introduce everyone. Her hair was dyed half-blonde, half blue, and she was stressed because the hair dye was fading; he did not care for her.
Los Angeles, California. Exactly as opposite as she could get from Russell, or maybe that was Chester—and the weirdest class of them all, even Arnie.
[Streamer]. Which meant she was used to having a camera on her at all times, even 24/7, and filming all her life to her audience—which she didn’t have because there was no internet, no electricity, and she was very unhappy.
Chester and Arnie were the two guys along with Russell. Arnie was from Idaho, and Chester was Washington.
Arnie was a video game designer and mangaka, which meant he was in the same line of work as Lenora, though he didn’t have her class, and Chester had been an intern with his eyes on bigger things. He was an aspiring politician and had been running for local office when he’d been grabbed.
So, [Candidate] and [Martial Artist]/[Transmigrator]—Arnie knew martial arts and apparently knew what was going on. Though he mostly seemed gassed for someone with such a powerful sounding class.
They were all sweating, including Russell, but he jerked his head.
“No time to rest. We’ve got to keep walking.”
“Why don’t we take five, Russell? Huh?”
Chester loved doing compromises. Russell glowered.
“We’re barely doing ten miles a day. If we’re as far from civilization as I think, we’re going to be in trouble soon.”
“What’s the problem? You can just keep hunting. Lenora’s the one who’s going to starve if we run out of your ration bars.”
That was Arnie. He was wiping his forehead with Russell’s hand towel—another moment of irritation from the [Gunslinger]. Lenora flinched, and glanced guiltily at Russell; Chester’s voice was soothing.
“Let’s not worry about that right now. What do you think, Russell? See anything worth checking out?”
Russell shot back, annoyed.
“I’m not hunting anything now. It’ll attract too many bugs and potentially something after the blood. Five minutes, then.”
He strode away from the group so he didn’t have to make any small talk. Honarai began chattering behind him.
“Right, so, I was thinking. Maybe if we were all teleported here, it’s like a game. Someone could be watching us, you know, Hunger Games style? What if we’re getting points?”
“No one told us if we were, Honarai.”
“Right, but is it weird if I start talking to the screen? There could be cameras…”
Russell walked until he was staring out across the grasslands. He wished he had binoculars. There were distant blotches on the land he suspected were forests or…something. He longed to keep moving.
I should be out there! He could have gone at least five miles further, even with his pack, but for this lot.
‘The man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed.’ The first line of The Dark Tower by Stephen King, one of Russell’s favorite books. Or, when he turned his head and stared at those distant mountains, that Erin had thought might be the High Passes…
They had to be truly massive if he could see them this far away.
‘Far over the misty mountains, cold…’, The Hobbit. He really hadn’t liked those movies. The book was better, but that song had captured the feeling he wanted to follow.
Stories.
Russell might not know what was going on, nor was he familiar with being ‘isekaied’, a thing that Arnie assured him was what was going on with them—being taken to another world—but Russell did know stories.
Just not video games. Movies, books, sometimes television shows, but mostly the former two. He could get back and watch a movie on his beat-up sofa or take a book with him when working and read it before sleeping. He was used to having his phone die on him and needing to keep it off unless he had to call someone; he’d been meaning to buy a rechargeable power bank, but he had a system.
He was used to physical labor, too, unlike the others. Chester had just graduated and was going into politics, so he was campaigning. Lenora had a job even if she worked from home, and Arnie was a game designer, but he hadn’t finished any games—or mangas—and Honarai’s job was apparently playing video games or doing anything she wanted while people watched.
What it all meant was that none of them were ready for this but Russell, and so when they finally got up and began trudging along, he felt put upon.
By their suggestions as much as anything else.
 
——
 
“Holy crap, that’s a deer! Russell, Russell! Shoot it!”
Arnie pointed, and Russell eyed the deer with impressive antlers, grazing on the grass with evident delight. He grunted.
“Nope.”
“What? It’s meat for, like, a week!”
“More like weeks. We can’t haul it, and it’ll spoil without any way to preserve it.”
“Oh, but—”
“Stay away from it. It looks like an oversized buck or something. I don’t like those horns.”
That was for Honarai, who’d begun making a beeline for it. She protested.
“What? C’mon, it seems so friendly.”
Russell gave her an incredulous look.
“It’ll gore you. We don’t know what kind of species it is; it’s not like any deer I’ve ever seen.”
The horns were more complex and thicker than he was used to, and the animal was rather big. Well-fed. Honarai hesitated.
“There are deer in Japan that eat out of your hand, you know.”
“Right, and there are moose that will kill you the moment they see you.”
“Moose? Really?”
“Yep, in Alaska. Nothing scarier. I’d probably rather run into a bear than a moose.”
They laughed at that, like it was a joke. Which annoyed Russell because—moose killed people. They were famous for being dangerous and angry as shit. If he had his rifle ready to go and was in position and a moose walked up on him, he’d still shit bricks if he had to shoot it before it got him.
“C’mon. If it charges, I don’t know if I can take it down even if I hit it.”
Better switch to the Winchester just in case. Russell switched the hunting shotgun out for the longer rifle on his back and eyed the deer as it kept munching. If it did charge, fire once, drop the rifle, draw his revolver, and hope he killed it.
—Oh, right. And use his Skills. Did he have to shout them each time?
[Stabilize Aim], [Quick Swap Weapons (Guns)], [Reduced Recoil]—a bunch of ‘Skills’ for a gunslinger. Which he liked; he could change weapons very quickly, despite the cumbersome harness he’d rigged up to carry all three firearms, and he felt like he was on the top of his game with his shots.
Not that he’d done more than shoot eight rounds so far.
One from the Winchester, four from the hunting shotgun, three revolver rounds. He was counting. He’d been on a hunting trip when he’d been taken and been damn lucky to be holding everything while porting over to his camp, but that was still not a lot.
Not for this. Each time he fired, he was down one more. Each shot required thought and concentration. No wasting even a single bullet. No missing.
There’s not exactly a way to resupply my ammunition. He was stressing about that already. So, when Chester brought the suggestion up again, he got a snappy response.
“If you’re worried about getting attacked, what if you taught us how to use—”
“No.”
“Dude, you’ve got three guns. We need to protect ourselves!”
Arnie protested, and Russell took a breath.
“You don’t know how to use them. None of you have ever shot a gun before.”
“I have in self-defense training.”
“Do you know how to maintain a gun?”
Chester hesitated, and Russell just bet he’d sent a bunch of rounds downrange at a target. Maybe he had taken more than one or two lessons, but Russell wouldn’t trust Chester to have good firearms discipline.
“Just give us one and we’ll get the [Gunslinger] class. A bit of practice and we’ll back you up. I’ll take the revolver.”
You’ll take my revolver out of my cold, dead hands. Russell glared at Arnie.
“I don’t have ammunition for practice.”
“Well, what if one of us holds the gun and we are taught how to fire it, just in case? C’mon, let’s vote on it.”
“This isn’t a vote!”
“Pwease?”
Honarai made a face at him, and he blinked. For a moment, his resolve wavered, and he almost agreed before he realized—
“You’re using a Skill on me! Stop it!”
“Darn. That’s an ‘L’.”
She made a face, and Russell got madder. Chester raised his hands.
“Okay, no using Skills on anyone else. Which one was that, Honarai?”
“[Charming Appeal].”
“How many do you have?”
“Um…at least ten? I’m Level 18.”
And she was higher-level than he was. Russell growled and stomped on, but he felt like they had a point.
What if something jumps me and I need backup? 
 
——
 
At midday, he tried to teach them how to at least cover him. He unslung his shotgun.
“This one has a wide spread, so never, ever point it even in the direction of one of us, got it? I’m going to show you how to take the safety off.”
“I know how to use a gun.”
Arnie didn’t seem like he did, and he swung the gun around, nearly aimed it straight at Lenora and Chester, who both flinched, and that was that.
Russell grabbed the shotgun back instantly, palms sweaty.
“Alright, forget it.”
“What? C’mon—”
“You never point a gun at someone, ever!”
Russell shouted at Arnie, and the young man backed up, raising his hands. Russell holstered the shotgun and stormed off.
It only occurred to him, later, that Chester might have had a role in Russell even trying to teach the others how to use a gun—he also had Skills that apparently worked like that. Had he used them? Either way, Russell didn’t trust them. He stopped only once to fire the shotgun; at a large, winged swan with blue along its neck and a beautiful crest.
It was such a lovely bird he admired it through the scope for half a minute until he saw its head come up. Then he fired; its head vanished, and he heard a sound.
Lenora, from behind him. She was gazing the other way as he trudged over and bent down to check his kill. Enough, he hoped, for lunch and dinner.
Not for her, though.
She was vegetarian.
 
——
 
Food would be an issue for Lenora soon, but eating just meat wasn’t going to do anyone any favors either. At least they had a fire. If anything, not burning down the tall yellow grass was an issue; they had to find a clear spot of ground, then they made a grass fire with a huge mound of the grass, and Russell had to cook the goose—fast.
None of them were exactly good at cooking, either. Lenora munched on a rations bar with every sign of distaste as Russell ate the cooked meat, burning his fingers on it.
Damn it was good, even if there weren’t any seasonings! With some…with more utensils, since he only had one plate and utensils they traded turns using, he’d be eating like a king out here.
Then they continued. That night, Russell checked his shotgun, cleaning it with a little brush, and he resolved to clean the bore and re-oil it tomorrow. It had rained twice so far, and he was paranoid about that too. If need be, he’d disassemble both guns and store them in the pack to keep them from rusting.
“Hey, Russell. Do you think there’s anyone out here?”
“Erin said we’d run into civilization if those’re the High Passes. We’re just too far out from…Drake cities.”
Everyone listened hungrily to him, and Chester stretched out by their little fire. Honarai and Lenora were preparing to sleep in the tent; they got it for privacy.
“You haven’t had another visit? When you do—”
“Yeah, yeah. Tell her to contact all of you.”
Russell wished he could have another word with her, but what she’d told him about the world was fascinating. Arnie perked up; he’d been picking at his popped blisters.
“Drakes. Related to Dragons. So there’s an entire species of them—and Gnolls?”
“Yep.”
“I know them. And half-Elves. We should make contact with them as soon as possible. Then we can start trading our knowledge with them.”
“Yeah? And what do we have, aside from being able to hunt for meat?”
Unless he found more ammunition, that wasn’t a long-term, viable strategy. But Arnie gave Russell a look like he was crazy.
“We invent things from Earth, obviously. We can make tons of stuff. Bicycles, mayonnaise, hair conditioner—”
“You know how to make all that?”
Russell was impressed, and Arnie hesitated.
“It’s standard in stories. You use egg whites, I think. For both mayonnaise and hair conditioner.”
“…Wouldn’t they have figured that out?”
“Not in a fantasy story. And we’ll make more bullets for you as well. I know how to make gunpowder. It’s bat guano, charcoal, sulfur, and, uh…salt, I think.”
Russell opened his mouth and closed it. Arnie was chock full of knowledge, which was impressive, but Russell just frowned.
“That won’t work.”
“Really? Why not?”
Chester frowned at Russell, and the [Gunslinger] incredulously hefted his gun.
“Even if we made gunpowder, that’s not a bullet. This uses a .308 rifle cartridge. It needs primer, a casing—you’d need a factory.”
Or a home setup with tons of tools he didn’t have. Actually, Russell had been picking up the casings of each bullet he shot, even the shotgun cartridges, in hopes he could do something with them, but what would actual gunpowder get him?
Some kind of black powder cartridge that would either blow up my rifle or just be unpredictable as hell. He shuddered at the thought. Arnie hesitated.
“—Well, we’ll make a musket then.”
“A musket. Like, a civil-war era musket?”
“Why not? We can mass-produce them.”
Russell stretched out next to the fire and peered up at the sky.
“Good luck with that.”
Undeterred, Arnie began to talk about the other inventions they could make with Chester, like a windmill, printing press, soap—just ash and grease, apparently—crop rotation, and so on. Russell wondered how fantasy this world was.
 
——
 
“Is Arnie talking about things he’s gonna invent when we get to civilization again?”
In the tent, Lenora and Honarai were listening to the boys talk. Honarai was fiddling with her smartphone.
“Yep. Chat, he’s sort of cringe, right?”
She half-turned to a camera, and her face fell. It was genuinely a reflexive action, and Lenora shook her head.
“I don’t think making any of that is easy.”
Honarai rolled her eyes.
“Not what he’s going to make. Any real conditioner is going to have an emollient, preservative, emulsifier—if everyone doesn’t even have basic conditioner or shampoo, they’re going to be disgusting. You can probably make some with some shea butter, water, coconut oil—and an avocado and honey? But how do you emulsify it and rinse it out?”
She knew hair, it seemed, and distractedly fished for something.
“At least I’m not running out of makeup. Hair dye, yes. Do you think I’ll get a Skill for that?”
“You have a Skill for your makeup?”
“Sure. [Refill Makeup Kit]. It only worked once, though, so maybe it’s like a weekly thing?”
Lenora knew her Skills and class were not suited for this place, but she turned to Honarai.
“Do you think we need different classes, Hona? Russell’s the only one with a gun.”
“He’s a grump. Once we meet people, we’ll do better. All he does is complain.”
It was true that Russell wasn’t exactly friendly, but he’d been hunting to keep them all fed. Still, he did order them around and refused to let anyone so much as touch his guns or do more than carry his pack. They were talking outside, and the two young women left their tent a moment to sit by the fire.
“So what’ll you do once we find civilization or other people? I’m going to cultivate my inner energy as soon as I can find a manuscript.”
“…A manuscript on what, Arnie?”
Arnie paused.
“Cultivation. And I’m going to call myself another name, for this world. Something for people to know me by. Ala’bon.”
It—Lenora had to halt and turn her head, and Honarai bit her lip as they approached the fire. They saw Chester’s face go blank, but Russell didn’t bother with any of that. He just started laughing.
“That’s a stupid name!”
Arnie stood up abruptly and stalked away from the fire. Russell stopped laughing as Honrarai shot him a glance.
“Dude.”
“What? That’s the dumbest name I’ve heard.”
“There’s no need for you to be a dick about everything.”
Russell sat up and growled.
“Who’s being a dick? He’s not done anything—he doesn’t even haul the bag or set up the tent, and he just talks about cultivating his inner qi. I haven’t seen him use a single Skill! Even Chester has [Pitch In], and he can help!”
“Yeah, but you’re still being a dick about—”
Chester put out a hand, forestalling another argument.
“We’re all having a hard time. I think it’s difficult for Arnie to hear someone laugh at him, isn’t it, Russell? And it’s true he’s talking a lot, but we’re all far from home, so why don’t we just relax?”
The comment made Russell hesitate, and he sat back as Honarai nodded. Then both eyed Chester.
“Was that a Skill?”
“No. Just teamwork training.”
He appeared quite pleased with himself as Lenora changed the subject.
“Let’s say this is a fantasy world. That’s what you were told, right, Russell?”
Everyone listened again about this woman he’d met, and even Arnie stopped fussing with a sleeping bag and turned his head. Russell stared into the night.
“Yes. Magic weapons and swords and plate armor—nothing more advanced. Magic, though. Lots of magic.”
“I could be a [Mage]! Chat, that’s so—kek.”
Honarai sighed, and Chester sat forwards.
“Lots of species, though. Didn’t she tell you the north was all Humans and we might be distrusted for being in Drake lands?”
“Mhm. Sounds like there are sides. She didn’t say much except not to mention her name—sounds like she’s on someone’s bad side. It seemed like it.”
Russell’s hand moved towards his waist. He didn’t rest a hand on his revolver, just on his belt, but Lenora glanced at it.
“Are you going to fight?”
They all eyed him, and he blinked.
“Fight? I don’t even know if there are sides. We’re all on Earth’s side, right?”
Everyone but Arnie chorused agreement, and Russell went on.
“I’ve got as many rounds as I carried here. Wish I’d brought some open tips for my rifle. Heavier grain.”
“That’s…a different bullet?”
“Mhm. Open Tip Match—good if I was shooting at long range. I just have hunting ammunition.”
He hefted the rifle and let Lenora inspect it. It made her uneasy, and she handed it to Honarai, who nearly tried to peer down the barrel before hesitating.
“Is this unloaded?”
“Yep, but don’t do that in general.”
She did it anyways, frowning.
“Why’s there a spiral in the gun?”
“Rifling. So the bullet spins?”
Again, he gave them all that incredulous expression like they were idiots, and he didn’t seem to realize how obvious it was at times how little he respected them. But then again, they hadn’t done much. Lenora massaged her aching feet, and Chester frowned.
“So you’ve got a gun, which no one else in this world has—or only a few people. And that could change the course of a war. Like…a fantasy. Imagine being in—in Lord of the Rings and having a gun. Did you ever want to be that guy?”
Russell blinked at Chester.
“What? No. Just shoot my way though the Ringwraiths? I never dreamed of…”
He stared into the fire.
“I like old Westerns too. I usually buy DVDs on discount.”
“DVDs? Who doesn’t stream?”
“Someone who doesn’t have good internet and can’t afford a subscription.”
He retorted, and Honarai bit her lip. Lenora felt the conversation go dead again, and after a moment, Russell stared at the fire.
“…Besides, they had it in the books. The movies too.”
“What?”
“They had gunpowder in Lord of the Rings. Saruman invents it and uses it to blow a hole in Helms Deep. That’s the entire point of his armies. The Uruk-Hai are modern orcs with steel.”
Arnie had come back, and when Lenora turned to him for confirmation, he blinked. No one knew what to make of that book knowledge, but Russell just took his rifle back from Chester and began to check it for rust.
“I don’t want to be a soldier, anyways. There’s a big difference between shooting game and shooting a person.”
“But that was your job, right? Leading hunting parties in…where?”
“Virginia. There are swamps. It’s a decent living if you can work for tourists or people who want a guide.”
Honarai sat there as Russell stared into the distance.
“Hunting. Wow. How do you…I mean, do you, like, gut the animals on the spot or something? How do you get them anywhere?”
“We can skin and gut the animal, but usually you just load them up in a truck. There are people who process it.”
“So you just get a bunch of meat? Do you have to, like, salt it?”
Russell developed that too-patient tone of voice.
“No, the people who process it can do all the work. You’ll get a vacuum-sealed bag of all the good meat, Honarai. If you bag a single deer, that’s plenty of venison. There’s not much money in selling the meat, though. Sometimes, I just lead tourists who want to collect trophies.”
He grimaced.
“Anyways, I just do that for money. My turn. How big a streamer were you?”
“Um—you’ve never heard of me?”
Everyone else knew Honarai, and her face fell when Russell shook his head. She casually shrugged.
“I don’t know, I did okay. I had sixty thousand regular viewers on my streams.”
“…Is that a lot?”
“I was top five most-watched streamers in the world!”
“Huh. Does that pay well?”
Yes, absolutely. If Lenora was any judge, she bet Honarai was a millionaire. As for Chester—he had been winning a race to be one of the youngest members of his state’s House of Representatives. Lenora didn’t know if she had any big claims to her name—she had won an artist of the year award for her debut comic, but she hadn’t hit financial success.
And Arnie…Russell listened to Honarai talking about her metrics and collaborations with other streamers, and when she mentioned being in several commercials, it seemed to click. He kept inspecting his rifle until Chester interrupted.
“There’s a pattern in the Spirited Generation. Most people who get spirited tend to be good at something, even if they’re not the best. Like we’ve lost an Olympic rower, a tennis champion, an International Master at chess—”
“—the world’s best streamer—”
Russell rolled his eyes.
“And there are ordinary people too. I’m just a hunter.”
“You’re a pretty darn good shot. I’ve only seen you shoot once at your targets. I’m pretty sure that’s good, isn’t it?”
Lenora’s quiet observation made Russell pause and grin in satisfaction. He nodded after a moment.
“I’ve never competed or anything, but I guess I’m decent. I’ve been hunting since I was a kid. My dad taught me since I was…twelve?”
“You had a gun when you were twelve? Dude, that’s so irresponsible!”
Honarai exclaimed, and Lenora nudged her with a foot. Russell was glaring when Chester broke in.
“Do anything interesting on your hunts? Did you win an award?”
“No. I’m not famous or rich. I live in a trailer. I’m not—”
Russell glared again, then stared past them.
“Well, I did have to shoot a grizzly, once. It jumped us.”
“You shot a grizzly bear?”
The [Gunslinger] nodded, but he was staring into the long, dark grass around them. The wind was picking up, and the fire was going out; Chester began to stamp on it before the embers could blow.
“The last thing we need is a brushfire. How close was it?”
“Ten feet away. Snuck up on our blind. I had to shoot it dead with this.”
Russell murmured. Lenora felt her skin crawl. He had a hand on his revolver. He unholstered it, and Honarai blinked.
“Wait, like how many rounds?”
Russell didn’t reply. He sat there, then began to rise as Arnie walked over.
“I think I’ll try cultiv—aaaaaaaah!”
The creature leapt out of the grass and rushed at Honarai, both pairs of jaws open. It was long, running on all fours, and—
Lenora was screaming and grabbing for Honarai when the thunder deafened her. She flinched, and there was a jerk—the body hit the fire, and she heard another shot—then silence.
“—get back, get—”
Silence and darkness until Honarai’s stun gun flashed in the night, and then a light—a flashlight from Russell’s hand. He was aiming his smoking revolver around, then gazing down at—
Lenora stared at the beast with two mouths, both stacked vertically on top of each other. It had two tails, four eyes on each side of its head, and it resembled a long lion or something like that—its claws were very sharp, and it lay with two holes in its head and two more in its body. The last bullet had gone through its spine.
Russell stared down at the predator he’d shot and spoke into the ear-ringing silence.
“Five shots. Same as the bear.”
He sat down, took a huge breath, and then another, then stood.
“We should move the body. There might be more. C’mon. I’ll keep a lookout.”
Then they were moving. Honarai was shaking, and Lenora wondered how good a shot you had to be to fire five bullets and hit a target in the dark that fast.
The most dangerous Earther willing to listen to Erin Solstice kept staring down at the animal he’d shot. Excitement and fear combined into heart-pumping adrenaline was turning into sludge in his veins as it faded, but he stood there a second and shook his head in wonderment.
Clearly, he loved this world. But Lenora wasn’t sure the world was ready for him.
 
[Gunslinger Level 15!]
[Skill – Mitigate Hearing Damage Obtained!]
 
——
 
Aside from that one level in the encounter with the Two-Jawed Plains Hunter—Russell didn’t level once in their journeys.
Everyone else did, and that, more than anything, seemed to annoy him.
“Turns out that [Candidate] levels from keeping everyone together.”
Chester was a natural leader-type. Big smile, handshake you could use to anchor a boat with, handsome—and Honarai had exactly the opposite type of charisma.
“I can’t level [Streamer] until I get something to stream with—but I did get [Tech Girl]. See?”
She’d taken some of her own possessions, which were all devoted to streaming, and combined a selfie-stick as well as a bunch of cord and her stungun to create…a stungun spear. If she held the trigger down, it became a temporary spear she seemed willing to jab someone with. Her close-call with the monster had galvanized her.
Lenora, by contrast, was too afraid to do anything so violent, but she’d levelled twice as an [Artist]. Which amazed everyone because she didn’t even have a sketchpad.
“I’ve just been drawing with this. [Inkless Pen].”
She produced the digital pen and scribbled on her arm. Having no other canvas, she’d done a likeness of the monster that Russell had killed, and it was scarily good. If they’d been back home, she’d have made amazing art for Ala’bon’s story, The Hand of Destiny.
Not that he’d gotten it started yet, but Arnold de Grasse, Arnie, or Ala’bon as he had decided to call himself, just hadn’t found the right artist. He could have finished the scripts and made the best manga ever if he’d had someone like Lenora around.
The day after the monster attack, everyone was all over Russell, which…fair. He was even persuaded to show Chester how to aim the shotgun, but didn’t let him do more than undo the safety.
“If you need to reload it, we’re in trouble. Don’t fire it unless I tell you to, got it?”
Which meant they gave Arnie the pack. Which was damn heavy, but Arnie could manage the weight. In truth, he felt a bit…embarrassed.
Not because Russell had been the hero yesterday; he’d had a gun, obviously. But Arnie hadn’t had a chance to unveil his Skills.
He’d lied to them, you see. It was a classic move when you didn’t know if you could trust your allies. Arnie had told them he was a [Martial Artist] and he had taken classes, but the truth was, he wasn’t a [Transmigrator] either. He had every intention of learning cultivation and magic if they were available—that was just common sense. But he had been chosen, and when the moment came, he’d use his Skills.
After all, he was a [Hero]. He was low-level, only Level 6—for now—but he had [Increased Stat Gain] and [Hidden Potential]. He’d been Level 5 last night, but surviving that encounter had awarded him experience.
The weight of the pack was just…training. He marched under the sun, panting, as he steadied his emotions and began to refine his body. The first ten levels were set up. Another night of laboring like that?
 
[Hero Level 7!]
[Skill – Strength Enhancement (Gradual) Obtained!]
 
He slept well indeed.
That was how their journey went, day after day. With Russell to hunt for them, they were still doing well, even if they had no toothpaste and the rough travel was getting to them. Lenora was running out of ration bars and appeared quite hungry. Ala’bon resolved to seek out some wild vegetables or something to resolve her issues.
Once he hit Level 10, he thought a movement Skill or something would allow him to efficiently scout this area and get ahead. Then he could power-level to 20, and if they hadn’t stabbed him in the back, he’d take care of this group. Russell seemed useful, and Honarai could be a valuable relations expert, as could Chester. He just had to keep levelling.
 
[Hero Level 8]!
 
——
 
The monster attack was crazy. Honarai didn’t sleep well that night or the next one, which sucked when they were having to march all day in the endless grasslands. At first, everyone loved Russell.
He’d shot a giant lion-thing dead just like that! Pure action hero movie stuff. So you’d think they’d all love him and it was great after that, right?
Wrong. They started fighting—again—the next day after everyone stopped being happy, ‘Russell’s so awesome’.
It was about the guns. It was always about the guns.
They tried to convince Russell to let them carry his firearms, even Lenora. He refused.
“No. Not happening. None of you have practice. I showed you how to aim and shoot; if we see trouble, I’ll hand one to you. Otherwise, they stay on me.”
“Russell, come on, now you’re being unreasonable. After the monster attack? You walked me through how to aim and shoot them responsibly! I’ll carry one; that’ll help you as well. Let’s be reasonable now.”
Honarai listened to Chester trying to work on Russell. Even the charming [Candidate] was having a hard time with Fort Russell, which was Honarai’s nickname for him in her head.
He was just…stubborn. Nice guy, in a way. He was this country dude who had way less muscles than a gym-bro, but he just kept going when anyone else from home would have probably flopped onto a couch with a protein shake or something.
However—Honarai turned up the wireless earbuds to block out the argument as it got louder.
“Come on, Russell! It nearly ate me!”
That was Arnie. He went for a grab, and Russell yanked his shotgun back.
“Try to grab my gun again and I’ll deck you.”
Arnie retreated, hands up, but Chester stood there with Lenora, arguing.
“Russell, you’re being unreasonable. We need to defend ourselves. If something gets you, what happens then? If you give just one person your shotgun, we can stand watch. If two of those things came at us and we were armed—”
“You’d miss.”
Oh, that was it. Honarai bobbed her head to the tunes she was listening to. She didn’t like conflict, and she was using a Skill.
[Trickle Charge: Walking].
Skills were awesome, though this one was sort of lame—unless you were stranded without electricity. In which case? Awesome.
She was a [Tech Girl], which was sweet. She had a bunch of Skills. Blew her mind.
[Carefree Stroll]. Made her feet hurt less and stopped her getting horrible blisters even though her feet were tough after so long out here.
[Extra Nutrition: Meat]. That one kept her from, like, dying of scurvy, she assumed. So much meat made her feel ill, but you got what you got.
[Energetic Voice]—that was good for pepping people up. No one knew she had it.
She loved all her Skills, really. But none of it was, like, magic. Like her [Streamer] class. That had some Skills that sounded amaze.
Like, like, [Spectacular Presence] and [Don’t Miss A Moment] and [Interact: Viewership]! It sounded like everything she was. Something that’d make streaming even more awesome. But she didn’t have an internet connection, so…was she useless?
Honarai didn’t know. She saw Russell slap down Chester’s hand.
“Knowing how to aim and shoot doesn’t mean I’m giving you—you will miss. I don’t have the ammunition to waste!”
Got it, he was talking about his bullets. Honarai didn’t do guns. She knew they were necessary, and she sort of agreed they should use them, but she understood Russell’s point.
“I’m used to shooting. I’ve hunted before, I’ve competed in competitions, and I’ve practiced for thousands of hours. You’ve had fifteen minutes pointing. You won’t hit anything coming at you unless it’s slow. And what I’m worried about is you hitting someone else in a panic, or wasting shots.”
All about the ammo with Russell. Just like how Honarai checked the charge of all her devices on her phone and decided she had to take her earbuds out to recharge. She got that, but she still thought they deserved to be able to defend themselves.
Here was the thing: she and Chester had the same sort of…class. He was a [Candidate], and he was good at making everyone work together. You sort of looked up to Chester if you talked to him long enough.
Honarai got that because she was a [Streamer]. Game recognized game. Streaming was all about popularity, getting attention, and reading the room. Not like how Chester did it—he was way more professional and political. But she thought she was better at reading people than he was.
Honarai could tell…Russell would give them a gun when California froze over. He’d do it, but it’d be when he thought they needed it. Not before.
But Arnie and Chester really didn’t like that. Both of them wanted a gun. Arnie squared up.
“Hey, man, you’ve been giving us lots of orders, but we’re all a team here. Even if you got to talking with that weird [Innkeeper], you’d better share.”
“My firearms. Or what?”
“Or…there are four of us and one of you.”
“Is that a threat?”
Russell didn’t do that thing where he bared the revolver on his hip. He just glanced at Arnie as if he was considering belting the shorter guy across the face. Correction: Honarai could somehow tell he was thinking about just that.
[Check Vibes]. Not good. And she sensed Arnie…
He backed up behind Chester, fast.
“Hey, what’s wrong with you?”
“What’s wrong with me?”
Russell glared around, and Lenora avoided his gaze, Chester began speaking, and Arnie glared. He turned to Honarai, and she…
“What was that? Hey, anyone want to borrow my iPhone? It’s charged up again.”
—Pretended she hadn’t heard. Russell stared at her and then snorted, but Arnie instantly went to borrow it. She gave her earpods and phone over to Lenora since it was her turn, and that worked.
Definitely. But Chester wanted to get her to pressure Russell, and she just blew him off as she walked ahead. She didn’t like Russell’s ‘I’m the best’ attitude. But she really didn’t like Chester suggesting she could flirt with Russell to get him to be more helpful.
She wanted to find someone else. She had to believe there were cameras or some way to stream, right? Or was her class thing just—Honarai stared at the grass.
Some days out here, it sucked. It really did.
 
——
 
And some days, they stared up at the sky and cried.
Lenora was crying. Honarai’s makeup, which somehow was still on her face after so many days, was running. Arnie was blinking tears away, and Chester was wiping his sleeves.
Even Russell just…cried. Scuffing at his eyes. And gazing up—
Up.
As they stood before the setting sun. It blazed across the sky, a ball of light unlike their world’s, some kind of…of different planet. And the stars.
Oh, the stars. Lenora had seen them on the first day, multicolored, and she’d sat there, speculating about whether they meant something different in astrological terms, but she hadn’t the understanding to grasp it.
The stars at night were beautiful, forming constellations she had filled her notebook with. And the [Digital Artist] liked to imagine, yes, she had a bit more insight into color, scene, and form than most.
But everyone, absolutely everyone—could just look up in this moment and weep.
The burning sun was fading across the horizon, leaving a trail across the vision, a bright star falling, but it was that perfect time of day when the night was also present. Two moons rising higher. Green and blue.
Stars in the daytime. On Earth, it would have been a common sight, if pretty. But oh.
“The sky.”
The sky. Some kind of—of storm or something must have been shifting the sky, Lenora thought. Or maybe this was normal? Because the blue sky, which gave way to orange and vibrant red, then dark night, which she termed almost purplish at times or a blue ochre close to midnight black—
It had changed completely. A lavender slash had divided the orange sunset, and waves of fire were bathing the horizon line as the sun sank, a falling disc which brought the deeper colors to life. High above, St. Patrick’s Blue swirled, yes, swirled like a nebula unfolding amidst the warm blackness and dancing stars.
Like an artist dipping their brush in colors to draw a heaven above. Lenora was crying. If she could have brought this image home, captured even half of it—she thought someone would look at this and believe there was a god, no matter what Russell said.
Because it was so beautiful. She gazed up, and the stars became a constellation in her eyes, placed with far more deliberateness than the ones of home. Humans of her world had read into the stars’ shapes like a belt, a kite, even shapes like centaurs in the abstract stars to give meaning.
These were shapes, she knew. She looked up and a lion stared down at her, a lion-man illuminated in burning stellar lights.
“Oh. So that’s why people stargaze.”
Honarai had her phone raised, snapping pictures, taking videos, and Lenora could not begrudge her that. How would she ever, ever explain to someone how it felt?
The wind blew her hair, the grass rustled, and when she turned her head to admire the ground, she could see the wind blowing. A long pattern of flowing grass moving a mile long, flexing like a snake made of wind across the endless yellow sea.
“I could die like this. If this is as far as we go, at least I saw this. If only I could capture it.”
She had her pen in hand and was trying to draw it. But she couldn’t. Lenora blinked the tears out of her eyes, and that broke the spell. Arnie turned away.
“It’s magic. See? We’re chosen.”
Chester sighed.
“Wait till they hear about this back home. Everyone has to see this.”
Honarai just kept recording for home, that might never exist, a [Streamer] with no audience. But it was Russell who turned to Lenora, and she supposed the two of them were the best friends, at least of the group. He met her eyes and wiped at his own, then hefted the killing weapons on his shoulder.
“We’ll make it. I promise, Lenora. There’s more to see.”
She studied him and smiled. She believed he would. But they had been out here so long…she sat as little beetles flew on her notebook, and fireflies danced under the wonder of another world’s heavens.
 
[Digital Artist Level 15!]
[Skill – Draw My Thundering Heart Obtained!]
 
Oh, strange world. Oh, voice which spoke to her as if it knew her. Oh, fate.
Why did it feel like the world wanted to reward her for being her? She loved it. She feared it. Lenora curled up in their tent. Rejoicing and despairing day by day.
 
——
 
Nailren woke up after a day of riding long and listened to his horse snorting contentedly in the morning. The animal—he didn’t name most of his horses—was a strawberry roan. No warhorse; they ate too much and were too temperamental. Just a good, rugged plains horse. One of the Wild Wastes’ breeds, he thought it was.
Despite all the riding—no, perhaps because of it—the horse was happy. Even with Nailren and a pack on its back all day, it was munching on grass as it lay on its belly with every sign of enjoyment.
“You and me both.”
They loved this land. Mood was an excellent component of travel; the miles melted away the more you were enjoying things. Be in a bad mood and every second weighed upon your shoulders.
It was the grass; it had to be. Nailren plucked a yellow tuft and eyed it.
“Just how good is this?”
The roan ate the piece of grass out of his paw, which told Nailren…well, he rolled out of his little tent that was the same color as the grass. He had [Camouflaged Position]; the more he stayed in one spot, the harder it was to see him or his surroundings.
Perfect for avoiding trouble. Nailren had scored some fish from the river yesterday, and he’d tucked the fried fish in a bag covered with de-scenting oil. It still worked so well he only got a whiff of the fish when the bag opened.
“Yup, that’s got to be eaten up.”
One night was all it could take before it would spoil. Smoking it, now, that’d buy more time. Oh no, fried fish for breakfast with some fresh bread from the Explorer’s Haven?
“So tragic. So horrible.”
Nailren munched on his breakfast and reckoned he’d have the energy to be on the road in minutes for another day of hard r—
He was fishing for his waterflask in his packs when he froze. Peered into the backpack, then raised his paw and shook it out.
“Not again. Spoony!”
He howled, and his paw was dripping with glowing, pale—
Ectoplasm. 
“It’s all over my damn pack! What were you doing?”
He cursed, and the inside of his pack was indeed aglow with the leavings of a ghost. Much like a snail, they left this weird goop everywhere. Apparently, only Nailren could see it.
It was only really noticeable if you got a lot on you. Then you’d have this vague, cold, slimy sensation on your body. It wasn’t even that sticky; it came off rather easily, but it adhered to everything. To Nailren, who liked a clean setup, it was the most annoying thing about his new companion.
“I told you, stop touching things when I sleep!”
He growled at the invisible specter following him about, and he felt a tug on one ear.
“Stop that. This isn’t a game!”
The problem was, what could he threaten Spoony, his ghost, with? Leave her behind? That was an excessive threat and probably wouldn’t work more than once or twice; and it’d ruin the relationship. He didn’t even know if she would stick around, but friendliness was vital.
The problem was that she clearly got bored in the night. Even as he watched, he saw his half-eaten plate of fish move. The spoon rattled around, and he saw ectoplasm appearing in splotches over—
“That’s my food.”
Disgusted, he swiped at her, then began snatching up all the ectoplasm he could and putting it the only place he could store it: a glass jar.
It seemed you could pack ectoplasm in, so he’d been filling this jar with the ghost-leavings on the hunch it could be useful. However…Nailren eyed the bright glow in the jar.
“Less of it this morning. It definitely vanishes. Hrr. I don’t have a container that’ll hold this. Great.”
So he had a rapidly-vanishing, if seemingly unlimited, resource. The [Clandestine Chieftain] rubbed at his forehead.
“I guess that’s on the list of things to do today. Ghost-things.”
He heard clapping behind him and jumped. His horse stopped eating and let out a panic poop. Then Nailren sighed. He was enjoying the New Lands and riding, damnit.
It seemed like his ghost-friend was getting bored.
 
——
 
Query: how did you talk to a ghost? Some might say you just went up and talked to them. Certainly, [Witches] were of the opinion most ghosts could understand you, but their legends also had summoning circles and seances.
Not all ghosts were the same was Nailren’s suspicion, and the many ‘experts’ he’d talked to had all had ideas that worked…but none perfectly.
In fact, the most correct opinions had come from none other than Joseph. Salt circles worked on ghosts, and so, despite his instincts, Nailren had procured an item that would help him communicate with the other side.
They were riding along after he’d torn down the camp, and he balanced a little, unfoldable board on his lap and produced a tiny little marker, an arrow with a hole in the center.
“Alright, Spoony. This is a ouija board. I was told this is the tool you can use to speak to me. Well…go for it. How are you feeling?”
He put the marker down and watched it judder as he tried to hold it in place. He knew Spoony was there; he felt an excited tug on his arm, then…the little marker moved.
“T.”
It moved again, after a delay.
“H.”
Another pause, eight seconds, then it went up and to the right.
“I. ‘This’? Or another word?”
A pause. There was a ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ option helpfully added to the alphabet as well as numbers on the board and a ‘goodbye’ at the bottom. After nineteen long seconds of nothing, Nailren saw the marker slide halfway towards the ‘yes’. Stop.
“Spoony?”
Nothing. He was trying to calculate how long it’d take her to write even a sentence at this rate. Nailren glanced around.
“You there? Was that a ‘yes’?” Hello?”
After two whole minutes, the marker finally moved to the ‘yes’, and Nailren frowned.
“Great. This is it. And…”
He and the horse exchanged a look in the dead silence as they rode along. Both eyed the board. It took six minutes before the little marker flipped off the top of the ouija board. Nailren caught it, put it back on the ‘yes’. That could have been the wind or something.
Spoony flipped it off again. He suspected…she was a bit mad.
 
——
 
After picking up the ouija arrow, Nailren did some speculating out loud. He didn’t feel cold or anything; she wasn’t pulling on his hair or pestering him like she did when he assumed she had energy and was bored. So he stroked his chin-hair and thought out loud.
“I have a notion. From how you were writing back there, it seemed like it took you more and more time per letter. Which, if I equate it to a body—which is all I understand—suggests you were tiring, yes? Tug my left ear for ‘no’, right ear for ‘yes’.”
He felt the faintest of tugs on his right ear and nodded.
“Interesting. I’ve seen you move things before, but it tires you greatly, even small objects. Even that marker, hmm?”
‘Yes’.
“Is it harder to move a big object or harder to move an object for long periods of time? Left for big object, right for long periods of time.”
A pause—then both his ears twitched. Nailren snorted.
“I suppose nothing’s easy. Hrm. But this is more efficient than the board.”
‘Yes’.
“But Joseph was convinced that was a useful tool.”
‘No. No.’
Evidently, she had already taken a great dislike to the ouija board, but Nailren was frowning.
“The concept makes sense. Perhaps the pointer is too heavy?”
It had been made well by a good [Carpenter], but he found a little piece of grass and shaped it into an arrow with his claws.
“Try this, Spoony.”
This time, she managed three letters, ‘IHA’, before having to pause. Nailren read.
“I-H-A-T-E-T—ah. You hate this. Hrm. But it lets you use words. And you know how to speak.”
He felt a tug on his right ear and winced.
“You didn’t seem that linguistic when you were haunting me.”
Silence. He scratched at his chin.
“Well…let’s try to talk. How about I ramble and you tug my ears. Let’s say ‘yes’ and ‘no’ for ears, and for fingers, we can, uh, say my left hand is for agreement or disagreement. Pinky is disagree, thumb is agree.”
He quite enjoyed making a logical system where she could use parts of his body to indicate how she was feeling. It worked for about thirty minutes; he began rambling about Barnethei’s inn, and she strongly agreed she liked it, then had low agreement that it’d do well. And then he talked about Goisedall and the Silver Swords and thought she didn’t care or didn’t get what was going on before he realized—again—she was tired.
How strange. Before, when he’d taken her camping supplies and she’d been after him, she’d grown strong enough to lift objects and constantly attack him, even materialize. Was rage a source of power for her?
“Spoony, get mad. Really mad.”
There was no reply, and he just imagined her going, ‘Okay, and how am I supposed to do that?’ Nailren hrmed.
“Well, and I want you to take this personally, you’re the ugliest Human I’ve ever met. And the weakest ghost.”
A tug at one ear, faint. ‘No’. He hesitated.
“—No? Not much ego about your looks. Well, I suppose it’s hard to hurt your feelings, anyways. You have nothing to lose. Except your life, of course. Which someone took from you. Did you even fight back? You let that family die. Husband, wife, brother.”
A pause, then the tug on his ear was harder.
‘No.’
“You did, though. Now you can’t avenge yourself. You were the one warrior there, and you let them down. Did you not even post a watch? They slit that man’s throat in his sleep. If you’d just paid attention, you might be alive instead of with m—”
The strawberry roan was eying the grass and bending for a quick mouthful on the trot when he felt his rider shift. The horse halted in alarm, heard a shout—and then Nailren was sliding, grabbing for the saddle.
The shove had nearly tossed him out of the saddle. He caught himself, flailing wildly, and shouted.
“It worked! Spoony, I wasn’t serious. Spoony, use that anger and the board and…Spoony?”
Silence. After a moment, Nailren slid off his saddle to readjust it as it had moved a bit from the shove. The horse gave him a peek, and Nailren crossed his arms.
“Look, it was an experiment. I had to say something that would hurt her feelings.”
He paused. Then put his head against the horse’s side.
“…Right.”
The horse ate some grass. It was great grass.
 
——
 
His ghost friend’s feelings remained hurt for quite some time after that. Which Nailren got, and he felt bad about—that had been personal.
Nor was it a viable strategy. Keeping someone genuinely mad—again, not a helpful tool.
“I’m very sorry, Spoony. How do I make it up to you?”
She was ignoring him. He was working on apologies, now, and thinking out loud.
“Okay. How to apologize to a ghost…”
In truth, it wasn’t that much of a mystery to him. Gnolls might not have a lot of active ghost-lore, but they did have a tradition around honoring the dead.
A thought occurred: did ghosts benefit from rituals of the same nature? Nailren thought so.
“Why do we bury corpses? Some Gnoll tribes practice natural burial, where they leave a corpse to be returned to nature. But most cultures have coffins or cremation. Why?”
He thought out loud.
“Well, firstly, to avoid the undead issue, yes. However, there is also a very important component of honoring the dead. We create elaborate sarcophagi for important dead. Erect statues. There are other means too. Placing food on one’s grave markers. Or burning incense. In Drake cultures, it is customary to leave a coin on a loved one’s grave.”
Drakes being Drakes, they were fake coins without denominational value and deliberately made dull to avoid someone with Hoarding Syndrome stealing them. Nailren went on.
“Gnolls make favorite foods on their death-days and tell stories. These could just be ways for the living to remember the dead, but what if these practices inform the dead in some way? I have no marker for you, though, Spoony, and your grave is far…but what about this?”
He stopped and produced a little plate, placing the spoon in front of it. Then, carefully, he selected some bread and added some Prelon jam he’d gotten from Plain’s Eye. He put it on the plate and clapped his paws together.
“I offer this to you as an apology, Spoony. May you accept it.”
Silence. The horse opened its mouth, eyed Nailren, and closed it. They waited, and the ghost…tugged Nailren’s ear.
‘Yes.’
Then a pause.
‘No.’
Nailren eyed the bread.
“…Do you accept my apology?”
‘Yes, yes.’
“…But the bread’s not your favorite.”
A pause. ‘No.’
“Oh, you do like the bread?”
‘Yes.’
“So…something’s wrong. It’s not working.”
‘Yes’.
“Hrm. I see.”
Nailren went pacing around the plate. He tried putting the spoon on the plate. Then he tried to make a marker by writing ‘Spoony’ on a piece of scrap wood, then realized she needed a name and tried to get her to use the ouija board to sound it out, but she was tired, and the bread was not really being offered to her in any way, apparently.
The horse decided the matter by eating the bread and jam.
 
——
 
A half day of trying to figure out optimal methods of talking to Spoony had Nailren mentally a bit tired by the time he stopped for lunch. Certainly, she seemed tired; she’d begun getting the system he’d tried to come up with confused. He wasn’t sure if that was her limited state of being, personality, or just this being too complex, but it wasn’t working.
“Sorry, Spoony. We might have to go back to simple means of talking.”
She wasn’t that happy. She was rattling his waterflask, which made a loud clacking sound as the metal hook rang against the flask, and he grimaced.
“Okay, you want to talk to me. Any ideas? I wish I’d talked more to Pekona after all…”
He watched, gloomily, as the ectoplasm got on his flask, then trailed across his pack—
“Hey. Hey. That’s my trail mix. Get out of there.”
He had to shoo her away from the pre-made balls he mixed up; they were a combination of ‘dry’ goods like oats, raisins, all glued together with flour, honey, or ‘wet’ travel rations. Pemmican, the Gnolls’ hated standby, with a coating of batter or with slivers of butter or sugar inside, anything to make the dense, calorific food more palatable.
Nailren groaned as he saw her ectoplasm his pack again. He began tossing items out for cleaning.
“Scat, scat! You’re worse than a damn cat! Spoony, I’m going to get mad. I’m serious, this is annoying.”
She had to be desperate for attention, but he was regretting this already. Most objects Spoony was touching barely vibrated; clearly, she didn’t have the energy for much. She rifled through his pack, then, as Nailren was preparing to yank out all his items and just clean and re-pack it all, a jar flew up, hit him so hard in the jaw he saw stars, and fell back in the pack.
“Argh!”
Nailren grabbed at his mouth; he’d bit his tongue! His horse peeked over.
You good, my friend? The cursing Gnoll rolled about, then jumped up.
“Was that for the insults earlier? That was uncalled for!”
That hurt. He felt a sudden, anxious tugging at his ear.
‘Nonononono—’
And then a tug on his jaw and his shoulder. Was she…apologizing? Nailren rubbed his jaw.
“That was way too hard for you to do without being angry! What was—wait a second.”
He saw the jar that had beaned him in the mouth in his pack. Nailren reached down slowly and then lifted the glowing jar of ectoplasm. He stared at it, and a little [Light] spell exploded in his head.
The strawberry roan really wondered what the Gnoll kept staring at that empty jar for.
 
——
 
What could a ghost touch? Things it connected to. Just like how they were weaker, unable to find him if he didn’t have something that belonged to them…
“Connection. Most connections between you and I are weak because we do not know each other, yes? In hindsight, I could have, I don’t know, dug up your bones and made something out of that? No, don’t freak out, that’s a hypothetical. And I’m no [Necromancer]. But perhaps an artificial connection can be made. Like…so!”
Nailren was working on something as he rode. He had the jar of ectoplasm and a hypothesis. If Spoony’s spoon necklace was his [Locus of Connection], then it made sense that had some spiritual strength.
But could another be made? The one thing of ghosts he had was ectoplasm. So, therefore, he was trying to add it to…the ouija board marker. A planchette, as it was known.
The little heart-shaped arrow didn’t want to soak up the ectoplasm, which is what he’d feared; the substance only seemed to linger on things, not be absorbed. However….you could condense ectoplasm, and he had a fairly dense glob of it.
“I could eat it, but I don’t think that’s wise. I could leave the planchette in here, but that feels like it wouldn’t absorb much. How does one add a substance that cannot be absorbed to something else? Well, you coat weapons in oil. And perhaps this stuff is not yet ‘real’ enough to interact with the wood. Compression.”
He effected compression via a simple means: he found a ball of cloth, wadded it up until it formed a rough seal, and then pushed the ectoplasm down. There was actually faint resistance as Nailren pushed down, and then—
When he lifted the cloth plunger, he swore it was glowing. Nailren eyed it.
“Wait a second. Disable [See Ectoplasm].”
There was still the faintest glow or odd vibrancy to the cloth when he deactivated his Skill. When he reactivated it—it was aglow with the compressed stuff! Nailren grinned—then panicked.
“Wait, this isn’t what I want. Argh!”
He ended up not being able to get the ectoplasm out of his clothing and finished with several stains on his clothing that water would not remove. However—there was just enough left in the jar to toss the planchette in. As he watched, it soaked up the vibrant ectoplasm, and when he took it out, the little marker had a glow to it.
“Alright, Spoony. Let’s give this a second try.”
He put it on the ouija board and held his breath. There was a pause—and then Nailren coiled as the planchette whipped to the first letter, then the second, and began to move as fast as someone putting their hand on the marker and moving it.
Maybe even faster.
‘H-E-L-L-O-N-A-I-L-R-E-N-S-O-R-R-Y.’
“Hello, Spoony. Or…I’m sorry. I don’t know your name. Can you tell it to me?”
The hair was standing up on Nailren’s neck, but he was grinning. There was a pause, and his friend wrote.
‘F-O-R-G-O-T-H-A-Z-Y.’
His eyes widened.
“You forgot? Interesting. But you can see and hear me, and you remember you were Human, yes?”
The planchette moved to ‘yes’. Nailren rubbed at his chin.
“What else can you see that I might not?”
‘D-E-A-D-P-E-O-P-L-E.’
“From Goisedall, yes.”
‘A-N-D-T-H-E-M.’
…Which then just implied that there had been more ghosts or dead people that Spoony had seen that he had not. Nailren felt the fur on his back rising more.
“Where? Who?”
This time, the marker slowed as she wrote, and he realized that even with this stronger connection, she was getting tired.
‘H-A-L-F-E-L-F.’
“The half-Elves? They had a dead ghost clinging to them?”
‘Yes.’
“Were they angry? Or was it someone in their expedition who died?”
‘D-O-N-T-K-N-O-W.’
Then the cursor moved.
‘T-I-R-D.’
Then it pointed down.
‘Goodbye.’
“I understand. This must be hard. But now you can communicate with me…I’ll begin saving ectoplasm. Gross. You should touch, uh…we’ll figure out a system.”
He wondered if he could mount the ouija board so she could write. And he needed a system so she could tell him something was up beyond tugging his ear. A bell, maybe. That was exciting, and by dinner time, she had worked up the energy to write another message.
‘H-O-R-S-E.’
“Yes? What about it?”
Nailren eyed the roan, who stopped chewing dinner, perhaps alarmed at the supernatural being’s interest in it. Was it related to the dead? Did it have something about it that Nailren didn’t know? Spoony wrote.
‘P-A-T.’
Nailren sat in silence. Then with a sigh, he got up and patted the horse on the head.
What are you doing, my friend?
The horse gave him the side-eye with both eyes, but Nailren had to pat the horse for a good fifteen minutes until Spoony was happy.
 
[Ghostspeaker Level 9!]
[Skill – Ectoplasm Handler Obtained!]
[Skill – Imbue Object: Ghosttouch Obtained!]
 
“…Gross.”
 
——
 
Ectoplasm was gross. However, by the time Nailren got to his next destination, he’d done a few things. Firstly—he’d given himself an ear piercing.
A sewing needle for repairs to his gear, a fire, and a poke and it was done. It hurt more than he’d care to admit, but he’d put a hole at the tip of both ears. And—a little loop of twine and bead of wood with a hole in it.
Both beads were naturally imbued with ghosttouch. Which seemed to be an enchantment that let ghosts, or Spoony, touch something with far less effort. Naturally, Nailren had added the effect to his planchette on the ouija board too.
This way, his ghost friend could talk to him or tug on his ears without issue. It was so subtle he doubted even other Gnolls would pick up on his ears twitching. More importantly, they’d developed a few other variants. A tug was yes or no, but if she pulled his ear down, he knew there was danger, and so on.
He’d actually alarmed her when he’d pierced his ears, and she’d kept writing ‘sorry’, as if she’d made him do it.
Pierced ears healed if he wanted them to. A little poke with a needle was a small price to pay for communication and an advantage. Spoony had been generating ectoplasm as well, day-by-day. He would let her play with an object and come back to find it covered in the goop. She really liked his bow and fiddling with his arrows. With all that ectoplasm, he’d had just enough to imbue two more objects; once the object reached ‘capacity’, you couldn’t imbue it with more ghost-stuff.
The first object Nailren had imbued was a little dried grape ball with a tiny pellet inside, an old standby from his past life. Once the pellet was crushed, it’d emit a faint, but malodorous stench any Gnoll with a decent nose or tracking Skill could pick up. It wouldn’t come off, not with a bunch of washes, and most people wouldn’t realize they had it on them.
After all, it’d be very handy to have a ghost able to lift and plant such an object.
“Shame we can’t do that with a speaking stone, but no magic. This will do. Remember, don’t show anyone you can lift these.”
Nailren had secured both in an unbuttoned pouch on his horse’s saddle. That way, she could lift them out of the pouches and move them through the air.
Not fast; her strength was weak, and she could only go ten feet before she had to halt, but he wondered if she might produce more energy if needed. Either way, the little scent-ball was one.
The second was a caltrop. Nailren had sharpened each edge until it was so damn spikey it had cut him twice just touching it. Sharp as steel could get.
“If you can’t throw it at someone, get them to step on it.”
Spoony was very excited by her two new tools. He hoped the ghost would be responsible with them, but Nailren was already imagining other ways to get her to help him. She seemed happy when she could do things, and he? He liked the idea of an invisible, immortal being watching his back. Her judgement would be something he’d have to establish, but that was how he spent his journey.
Then, like so many others, he came to Woll’s Waystation.
 
——
 
It wasn’t a question of why you went to Woll’s Waystation. It was more a question of whether or not you could miss it.
You see…it stood out. As the rocky south of the New Lands with that volcanic gravel gave way to the yellow grasslands, and the coral lands bordering the giant ravine to the north also became grass—as you came over the river, this was the logical spot for it.
Low walls of dirt. Barely more than a bunch of rocks piled up around the dirt base—but it was the only thing you could see before you entered the grasslands proper. Beyond there, the Eternal Grasslands of Archmage Kishkeria stretched out for many, many miles, and here the waystation had been built.
The walls were just slopes of dirt, it was true, but the Drakes patrolling them walked along the little square keep like it was a Walled City’s battlements, spears and all.
The irony, of course, was that they had a lot to watch; when Nailren rode up, one of them snapped down at him.
“Form a line! Identification?”
“You must be joking. Let us in!”
A Human in front of Nailren shouted up, but the Drake just hammered his spear down on the ramparts; a few clods of dirt rolled down the hastily-compacted side.
“We’re doing this properly! Identify yourselves! And there’s a fee to enter the waystation! One copper per head!”
“…What?”
The man in front of Nailren was part of a group of [Riders]. He was alert, so he’d come into the New Lands faster than most and hadn’t been hit by the mana-drain. He counted his group of ten, and one hissed.
“Just pay the Drake a silver. It’s worth visiting to talk!”
“We’re not paying to enter a lump of dirt!”
The Drake heard them arguing and glowered before sighing.
“You can also pay with information. Have you seen anything useful? Seen any monsters? Any information from Goisedall? Anything new counts.”
The group conferred, and the man shot back.
“We just got here. We’re from Lycit.”
“Never heard of it. Got a passport?”
“No. It’s in the north. House Radivaek? Famous for dogs?”
“I don’t see any dogs with you.”
The man was grinding his teeth.
“Not everyone has dogs. Look, we saw the Plain’s Eye tribe moving in. How about that?”
“Hah, we heard that ages ago! Try again.”
“…There’s some damn ugly toads that lay eggs big enough to fit in your palm? Grey, fat—the toads just hop around and poop ‘em out nonstop.”
The guard on the waystation’s walls stared down at the man, and Nailren tilted his head. He hadn’t seen that. The Drake eyed the man.
“You serious?”
“Yup. They don’t lay like normal frogs.”
“And it’s not poop?”
“We broke one open. Little tadpole inside.”
“How big are the frogs? Are they dangerous?”
“Oh, yay high. They didn’t have any teeth; they just ate the yellow beetles.”
The man gestured up to his knee. So big but not threatening. The Drake considered this.
“…Well, that’s probably good enough. Go on through.”
The party did, grumbling as they passed through the ‘gates’, which were really just a pair of wooden doors that could be opened or closed. Nailren, eying the sloped wall, bet you could just walk up the side. Maybe you’d have to scramble a bit, but unless someone with a pointy spear was atop the wall, it wouldn’t really stop anyone.
“Identification!”
“Labright. [Traveller]. Here to see what’s up. I heard this place existed, and I had to see. This the first place in the New Lands? I’m from Pallass, 7th Floor.”
Nailren put on a City Gnoll’s accent, and the Drake grinned down at him.
“From Pallass? We’re all from Hemshaw—got any info?”
To the Drake’s surprise, Nailren flipped a copper coin up. He caught it and nearly fell off the ramparts.
“Oh—you don’t have to—it’s more about information.”
“Nah, I’ve not seen much. Just stuck with the pack, me. Glad to pay it. Copper’s cheap, right?”
Nailren cast his eyes at the other wagons parked outside the Waystation, and the guard nodded, appearing a bit embarrassed. He motioned another Drake over.
“Go on in. There’s not much; the courtyard’s where people hang out, and the Waystation itself is where we’ve got stuff stored. You can’t go into the upper levels, but the downstairs has places to sleep and a table. The only damn one in the New Lands. Woll’s probably hanging out there. Oh, and don’t pee anywhere near the walls! We’ve got latrines that way!”
He pointed, and Nailren nodded. He ran through the gate with a friendly wave as Spoony tugged his left ear.
‘No, no, no…’
She was highly amused by his lies, it seemed. He tugged at one ear.
“Shh.”
He was listening. The Drake had walked over to his buddy.
“Right, the Gnoll’s from Pallass. Can you believe that? And those Humans are, uh…from some place up north with dogs. House Radivaek or something.”
“Adventurers?”
“They didn’t look like it, and they had a weird story about some gross frog…”
“Hold on, hold on. Let me get this in order. I wish we had parchment, damn it! Woll needs to get more.”
“Just remember it all; didn’t you get a Skill for that?”
“Only if I work at it! Okay, [Commit to Memory]. From the top.”
“Uh, the Humans are, uh…shoot, I’ve forgotten.”
Nailren rode into the keep, nodding to himself. It was easy to write the Drake guard off, but in truth, this wasn’t the worst operation.
Guards on the wall—pointless, of course. But they kept people from entering and leaving at random, and more importantly, the copper coin bit wasn’t real. What the Waystation wanted was information.
A piece per visitor, even if it might sometimes be made up, was valuable. This ‘Woll’ might be a sharper character than one expected.
And the Waystation had a lot of traffic. Given how flat the next area of the New Lands was, people were making this a stop to share information, trade, and Nailren suspected, try to figure out where the value and danger was.
A perfect place for gathering. The role of such establishments for ages.
An inn, in more primitive terms. There were cook fires, people of each species talking loudly, and the ‘keep’, a two-layer building of stones mortared in a hurry, had people tromping in and out. Nailren glanced around and had a thought.
My horse—
“Hey, I’ll take your horse for either a snack or two coppers.”
Someone called out, and Nailren turned. He eyed another Gnoll, and here was a real City Gnoll with a bunch of horses all waiting, tied down to stakes in the flattened-earth courtyard. There was a lot of manure, but it wasn’t filthy—yet.
“You’re just charging people to hold their horses. Two coppers? It was one to get in.”
The other Gnoll grinned; he had a spot of silver over one eye and black fur.
“Bah, no one pays that. Two coppers is cheap!”
“You’re not a [Handler] or [Hostler], are you?”
“Nope. [Apprentice Trader] Rilles, at your service. My caravan leader got this far, then turned around. [Tea Merchant] Tilfem’s caravan. Lasted one week to get here, and then he turned around and said he was done. They headed back to Goisedall, and if they’re not there already, they’ll disband the moment they reach Izril proper.”
Nailren winced, but then changed his mind.
“Wise of him. Had a lot of magic?”
“All of it gone, yep. I stayed.”
“Why?”
Rilles shoved his paws in his pockets and glanced around the Waystation.
“Well…there’s food enough here and plenty of people with too much to carry. They’re dumping or trading a lot of it here. Tilfem himself had to offload his tea, and he did it cheap. Good place to trade, huh?”
“It is indeed. But you’re taking horses?”
“Everyone who comes here needs a place to put ‘em.”
“How do I know you won’t take my horse and just ride off with it when my back is turned?”
Nailren knew the answer, but he liked Rilles’ attitude, and the Gnoll waved his paws around.
“Look at how many people there are! I’m holding most people’s horses; if they see me ride off, there’ll be a clamor like you won’t believe! Plus, the Drakes on the wall know me. Anyways, where would I ride to? Or sell the horses?”
Other caravans, but they’d have to be far enough away to want to take the risk. Nailren grinned as he fished out two coppers.
“Made a good income?”
Rilles’ grin was the answer Nailren needed. Two coppers wasn’t much, but if enough people came in and out and they mostly just grabbed their horses and went…
“It’s more’n I’d make working the Merchant’s Guild at my level, and I’ve levelled twice. The worst part is shovelling out the manure. I had to buy a shovel, and I have to take it far.”
Nailren’s brows rose.
“You’re not using it as fertilizer?”
“Me? No. Woll says it stinks too bad, so he’s having me put it in one spot. I might have to invest in a wheelbarrow. I’ve been using a hemp bag, but, uh…after one day, I think I need something I can clean.”
Which was making a compost dump. Possibly a place to plant in a few months if it kept adding up. He nodded to the enterprising Rilles.
If you had the will, you could find opportunity here. Quite a lot of it. Nailren kept an eye on his horse; he didn’t have many valuable items in his saddlebags, but one could argue they were all valuable. However, Rilles seemed to know his business relied on no one getting stolen from, so as he called out to new people coming in or watched them pick up their horse, he had his eye on the animals.
Nailren? He headed inside the Waystation. There he met Woll.
 
——
 
Woll was a character. At first, when you saw him striding around with scales a lime green, all loud voice as he had four conversations at once in the cramped keep with one table, a rickety set of stairs leading up to a huge storeroom, you thought that he was a short, hyperactive Drake.
He was, after all, only 5’2. Then you saw the huge, four-inch boots he was wearing and you realized—
He was a very short, hyperactive Drake. Though in fairness, the hyperactive part might have been the tea.
“Hey, hey, a newcomer! Come on in, tea’s free! You’ll have to either provide your own cup or wait until one’s washed. Or sell us your cups! I’ll do a special deal on those. What’s your flavor? We’ve got Earl Grey, Baron Black, Chandrarian Sand Tea, Drathian Flower tea…I’ll be right over. Where was I, and who was I?”
He spun, and a Human man appeared quite taken aback as he took a step back. Woll pointed at him.
“Merchant Kileth, right. Quartermaster. Well, I reckon I can take…how much?”
“Er, quite a lot of dry seed, heavier items we cannot carry due to our Chests of Holding, such as a grandfather clock, excess supplies—”
The man was trying to be quiet, but Woll was loud and took another gulp from the teacup he was carrying as he wrote, balancing a clipboard on one arm. Ink was smudged all over his scales and his bright red uniform that reminded Nailren of a [Receptionist], but higher-scale.
“Can do! That’ll be…one gold coin per square foot filled. Per week. You don’t pay, you forfeit your goods. Either collect on the day or we claim it.”
“A gold coin per square foot? Are you mad?”
Everyone around him recoiled, and Woll went on smoothly.
“Space is at a premium, and we don’t have any! You see that keep? Our second floor? We don’t have anything else! Gold coin per square foot, or—I’ll charge you a silver with one condition.”
Everyone stopped arguing, and Woll brushed at his scales as he glanced at Nailren.
“It’s a silver per square foot, again, and you buy time. A week, two weeks, a month. I’ll go as high as two months. But if you don’t send someone back to say you’re alive and that you’re still coming back for your goods, after that period elapses, I’ll take it.”
It was a bet. Kileth recoiled uncertainly, but Nailren saw the same trick Rilles was pulling on a far, far larger scale.
Not everyone was going to make it. Woll went on casually.
“We set up a passcode only your group and I know. If anyone makes it back, they can pay and renew the lease. Otherwise, it’s mine. I’m hoping to get a way to preserve or expand my storage, but until then, it’s at a premium. You can send riders back once you establish your camps. Dump it here and circle back. Or sell it; the folks outside will take anything you have to offer. Or I will, at a price. Tea?”
Someone had a teapot and a cup that might have been cleaned; he held it around, and a Gnoll took it. Woll gulped more down, and Kileth murmured.
“I think I’d take the second option…yes, let’s talk space. As for tea—”
“I’ll give it to you cheap. A bag—a full bag could mean tea for a month. Good for morale, energy; one gold coin for this Chandrarian Sand Tea. Eugh, kicks like one of their camels does, I bet, but it keeps me going.”
“One gold coin?”
“If you sell me something I like. Heck, sell me some paper, ink, cups or a chair, and I’ll throw two bags in, free! I’ll let you sit on it, Merchant. Now, you, who was I? Right…innkeeper. Sleeping within view of the Waystation’s free of charge. But inside or in sight of the walls costs.”
“You don’t own what’s outside of the walls.”
Woll patiently talked to the Gnoll who seemed like an adventurer of some kind.
“No, sir, I do not. But my guards have to know what’s out there, and if they don’t recognize you…that’s not me making reasons to charge you, that’s practicality. We’ve had [Bandits], [Thieves], and we’re not perfect, but this is how the Waystation keeps itself safe. You want to just camp out there? Be my guest, and because you’ve paid, you can haul water from the well. Tastes brackish, but it’s decent. You know what goes well with that? Tea? Tea? Tea.”
He was more obliging than you thought, especially for a Drake. And efficient; he actually cleared the people wanting to talk to him, and someone, the Drake with the tea kettle, went with the [Merchant] so she could calculate how much space he needed. Then Woll strode over.
“Hello, friend. Tea?”
“Thank you, though I’m not able to do business. It’s just me.”
Woll shook Nailren’s hand, then paced around the keep. Then he headed outside.
“Oblige me. If I have any free time…”
There were stones on the ground outside the keep, and a few Drakes and Gnolls and even two Humans were working. They were pasting mortar—crude, not nearly as good as proper cement—onto the stones and fitting them into the ground. Crude foundation laying; Woll began pasting stones with more mortar with clear inexperience, but a will. Nailren squatted down and obligingly tossed stones down so they could be filled in.
“The tea’s good. High-quality stuff. From Merchant Tilfem…yes?”
He put on the same Pallass accent, affecting the ‘yes’, and was rewarded by Woll glancing over.
“That’s right. Poor man had to offload it, and I got it for enough food to see him back without his people eating him alive. Knock-down prices.”
Now he was giving it away—and it’d still probably be a tidy profit. As if reading Nailren’s mind, Woll added.
“It’ll go bad with all this rain; the Waystation’s not drip-free, and it’s better to make friends than hold onto it. So, you’re from Pallass?”
He’d already heard or written it down. He was glancing at his clipboard now balanced nearly-impossibly on one arm. Nailren raised his brows.
“You have to be from a Walled City yourself. I should guess—Zeres? That’s closest, or Manus, but you don’t seem military.”
“Hah! Catch me going to either city. Er, unless you like them. I’m Salazsarian! City of Gems and all that!”
Woll pounded his chest, then went on without missing a beat.
“I came here the moment I saw the New Lands rise. Like the Waystation?”
“It’s incredible.”
“It’s shit, and we all know it. But it’s the only thing we could throw up. I wish I’d taken a recipe for Salazsarian concrete, but, well, we had concrete mix. Lost it all when our Chest of Holding blew. Two hundred feet of carnage in the rain.”
So he’d been hit by the magic issues? Woll was cheerful enough, and Nailren had to ask.
“What’s your class, if you don’t mind me asking? And how does a Drake like you come to be here?”
“You mean how does someone like me end up in the New Lands when I have zero survival Skills? Fair enough. The answer’s easy: I used to work for the greatest Drake in Salazsar. Ever heard of Salii the Secretary? Salii the Serpent? Salii the…damn, we really should have come up with better names for her.”
Ah, of course. Nailren grinned slightly; he saw a tired-looking Drake come out of the keep. The one with the teapot.
“Woll? Merchant so-and-so’s asking about a contract.”
“We don’t have one. Get him to start putting things in and do the spiel about how we’re not going anywhere and he can always hunt us down.”
She sighed and trudged off, and Woll glanced at Nailren.
“Know her?”
“I’ve heard of her, yes. Highest-levelled [Secretary] in the Walled Cities.”
Woll sighed and stared at the mortar for all of 0.2 seconds before continuing to plop it in with the stones.
“I was her understudy. Ancestors, what a Demon. Tongue like an ox stepping on cacti. But the adventures we got up to. I’d be getting ahold of a mining sector, really optimizing layouts, and she’d walk into her office and say, ‘Woll, we’re quitting the company, we’re going to bail out Remarbo Mining Limited.’ And we’d pack up, walk into a first-floor office filled with roaches, and start cleaning house. The levels. We could have been running Salazsar like one of Pallass’ machines by now if the Walled Families had listened to her.”
“Why’d she leave? I heard about that.”
Woll shook his head, despairing.
“She wanted them to let her take a risk. Open an entirely new vein, give her—and companies of course—the chance to mine outside of Salazsar. Deep mines, super risky for monsters, expeditions for more rare things we never dig up—even [Miners] who’d unearth dungeons! All super-experimental, super difficult stuff. They said it was too expensive, too risky, too unnecessary. And she said: of course it is! That’s the point! They level, we level. A city lives on its levels, even Salazsar. But they shot her down, and she left. She was thinking Rhir, Manus, for the third Antinium War, or the Grand Queen of the Antinium…then she went to Pomle. The rest’s history.”
Woll gulped down more tea and scribbled a note in his clipboard, which remained glued to his arm even when he stretched his limb straight up. Nailren eyed him.
“You didn’t go with her?”
“She said Pomle only needed one Drake. Plus, I get seasick. But the New Lands…when I saw that, I quit my job that day. We rushed to get this place done.”
“Why the Waystation?”
“Because it’s needed. Because it’s here. That’s the biggest lesson Salii taught me: be essential. I could be cute and say it was something else, but no. Be needed. People need a place to stop. They need a place to sell things and buy things. They need this, and being here matters more than a ceiling without holes in it. When you come back, it won’t be that much better, but I’ll be here. Woll. You tell anyone you see, and if I hear you sent them, I’ll have something waiting for you.”
Woll jerked a thumb at his chest and stood, and Nailren rose.
“Well, that fits in with why I’m here. I was making a map, actually…”
When Woll saw the beginnings of the map, he dashed inside and handed Nailren a bag of tea.
“Take it. So the Haven’s out there, eh? Good trading routes. I’m sending back riders for supplies. Paper. I want as much paper as you can get!”
He was telling a harassed Gnoll woman, who growled at him.
“It’s all expensive as shit, Woll.”
“Well, buy what you can and get back here. I’ve underlined how much you can pay for everything. Stick to the list.”
“But what if I see—”
“Stick to the list, Merri. The list doesn’t lie. What do we remember?”
“Everyone lies but the list.”
The Gnoll rolled her eyes, but she mounted a horse and set out with two other riders. Woll turned to Nailren.
“I’ll take a copy of that map. You’d think we’d get fliers doing the job.”
“Actually, I was surprised no one had beaten me to this. I’ve only got basic Skills…”
Woll snorted.
“The real [Cartographers] are either old men and women who use other people’s maps and never go outside or explorers who knew exactly how much they needed to prep. They’re out there, probably, but few of them are riding around like you. Not a popular class. As for fliers…well, the Oldblood Drakes say their wings hurt trying to get more’n twenty feet off the ground. Mana drain gets them too. And the Garuda I’ve seen aren’t going high. Something’s spooked them.”
Nailren eyed the skies.
“Predators? I heard rumors of some nasty ones.”
Woll nodded, jerking his thumb west.
“Write this on your map: the area we’re in front of is the first major zone in my mind. I call it Kishkeria’s Grasslands. It’s wide, flat, and not entirely empty. I’ve heard two groups claiming there might be submerged areas you can’t see. But there are monsters.”
“Really. Standard or New Lands? The Landsharks are all east of here.”
“Both. A few Landshark packs, but we’ve heard everything from Corusdeer to slimes. Even Gold-rank threats. A Wyvern rider from Salazsar landed here two days ago. Said his entire wing was scouting and got chewed up by rival Wyverns.”
So the air might be more risky than land…Nailren supposed it made sense. You couldn’t hide in the air, except in clouds. He shook Woll’s hand again as he rose.
“What’s the fee for a night?”
“Five copper. Well’s free for anyone who pays for the night; the rains kept us topped up. At some point, I’ll get more dug or start charging, but everything else here is a service. If you’re lucky, someone has drinks to sell, and remember, no one here is guarding your horse. Someone offers to do that for you…”
Woll waited a beat, then grinned.
“Hah! Your face! We know that Gnoll kid. Bright fellow. Come on in, later, and we’ll be swapping stories. I’m still asking anyone who knows what went down in Liscor to talk. No gambling, though; too many fights.”
“I’ll join in. I might stay the night, at least, to find out where I want to head next.”
Nailren nodded, and Woll leapt up.
“Splendid! Anyone in the Waystation? Hello! Who am I and what am I doing?”
He charged off, and Nailren shook his head. He liked this place already. He did feel a tug on his right ear as well.
‘Yes, yes, yes.’
Spoony liked Woll too. Nailren put his hands in his pockets.
“Keep an eye on my horse for me, though, Spoony. And if you see any ghosts or anything, two tugs left, one tug right.”
He began to stroll around, introducing himself to other travellers.
 
——
 
There were windows without shutters in the waystation, and the smell of manure was strong. Woll reminded himself to get the kid, Rilles, to shovel more often. No, wait, he couldn’t do that while he was standing there.
“Fetta? Get someone with a shovel to run down and get that manure out, would you? See if anyone’s got a wheelbarrow for sale.”
“We’ve got one.”
“That’s for our mortar and stones. Like hell we’re giving it to Rilles. Or just a spare hemp bag. His reeks. Oh, and what’s that contact in Salazsar you have? The one in the Assassin’s Guild?”
Fetta, the Drake with the teapot, paused in making more. She leaned on the counter.
“Couldro. Why?”
“[Memo: Couldro]. Would like an information lookup on ‘Labright’: fur color brown, solo, armed with a bow, earrings both ears…”
Woll calmly threw the [Memo] out and thanked Salii for insisting he learn a Skill that was encrypted compared to most [Messages] and didn’t require mana. Level 30+ [Secretaries] or higher only. Fetta gave him a sharp look as she checked her sides.
“Should I watch him?”
“No need for that. No need. It’s just that he knew Salii’s name.”
“So? You can’t shut up about her.”
Woll leaned against the rough window casually.
“No one normal knows Salii the Secretary. She’s only a hero to those of us in her class, or who have seen her work. You have to cultivate an appreciation of fine things to be able to worship Salii’s high heels. He might just be a smart, educated fellow from Pallass. Accent sounds right. Or he’s an Eye or…I’ll just add him to the list.”
Plenty of interesting people passed by Woll’s Waystation. Woll didn’t do more than take note. He wasn’t here to make enemies. He was going to survive by not making enemies, but damn, he was curious. Keeping the Waystation stocked and afloat in gold was just a side hustle. Someone was going to find something valuable here, and when they did, Woll wasn’t going to be second or third to cash in on it.
He’d settle for eighteenth.
 
——
 
Woll’s Waystation was indeed a magnet. You came there because you saw it.
“Hey…is that a building?”
“It’s either a building or a ruin. We have to go.”
“I swear I see people moving.”
“Could be a dungeon, let’s—”
“It’s a building. Looks like a fort. Drakes on the walls.”
Falene Skystrall spoke flatly, and the excited babble of voices hushed. Dawil gave her a reproachful glance.
“Pointy, you take all the fun out of life.”
“Aye, she does, but it’s good to have a [Mage] about!”
Evor shouted, and Falene smiled at him as she shot Dawil a triumphant glance. The Silver Swords and Cenidau warriors adjusted their course, and Ylawes called out.
“Are they friendly, Falene?”
She squinted again with her enhanced vision spell.
“I can see a tremendous amount of traffic in and out, Ylawes. I’d wager they are.”
“What’re the odds they have a working [Message] spell and the Merchant’s Guild has their ear?”
Anith was worried, but Falene snorted.
“Even if they have a [Mage] like me, they won’t get much more than the basics. I can punch through the mana drain to do an update with my contacts in Gaiil-Drome or Wistram, but it’s just a download of basic information. Unless we’re considered regional dangers, we won’t be on that list.”
Thus reassured, the Silver Swords began to march towards the keep with a will. Small or not, Drake or not, civilization was a kind of magnet, a lure, a beautiful thing this far out.
“I can’t believe anyone’s settled here already. How do they deal with the food shortages? The lack of mana?”
Ylawes was bewildered, but Anith just shrugged.
“There’s a power in being a trading post, Captain. And where there’s a will…I’ve seen Lizardfolk clear out thick jungle and have a village up within a month. And that’s terrain I’d swear to you was impossible to walk through. Do we have anything we want to trade for? To do?”
“Well, we’re searching for work. Evor? What are your people looking for?”
The [Hearthguard Leader] tugged on his beard, thoughtful.
“We’re looking around, but work would be good for us too. We fight for pay, or we could guard just as you do, Silver Swords. From there, I think we will split up again. We need to follow the rivers to make carrying this longboat worth it.”
That made Ylawes’ smile slip slightly.
“Are you sure? It’s been a fine time in your company. Should we, ah, bet another Mithril blade?”
He was rather tactless at times, and Falene, Anith, and Pekona all winced along with the northfolk at the blatant question. But Evor just chuckled.
“Pleasant as it is, there is such a thing as too pleasant. Your group is bigger than ours, and we must not rely on your team either.”
Especially if they were reinventing themselves, the [Shield Maids] included. Ylawes nodded reluctantly.
“Then we’ll have to have one last night behind actual walls.”
“Aye, now you have it! Remember, strength! If anyone should shout it as friends of northfolk, it’s you! Shout it, and other warriors will know you met us! We’ll meet again as friends, my axe upon it.”
So, the Silver Swords joined the other parties flowing towards Woll’s Waystation. They were one of many groups; a huge caravan around the walls from a [Merchant] that made Ylawes advise his team to put hoods over their heads to be less noticeable—and had everyone telling him to take off his silver armor, then—a party of Humans riding westwards, and a few groups coming back.
A single [Rider] with a bag of silver pieces trying to renew their lease at the waystation, five Humans running towards the waystation, though only one of them wasn’t winded—
Everyone coming to Woll’s.
Including trouble.
The dinging in Ylawes’ head he had put down to a piece of spare armor until it grew into a louder clanging sound, and he slowed.
“Wait. [Dangersense]. Something’s…”
His head swivelled as the marching group slowed, and Larr pointed and swore.
“Captain, one o’clock! Look! Monsters!”
They came bounding along the ground, faster than horses, if not larger. Long, bounding shapes with dark hides that were reddish or matted almost black, but hairless, with big-big teeth—a full pack of twenty. And leading them—Ylawes took one glance and swore.
“Cericel! That’s a Maven!”
“Giant’s blood, what is that?”
Thker swore as he raised an axe, but they were thousands of paces away; it was just that the oversized Maven leading the rest of her brood was probably eleven feet tall and racing along as fast as the others.
Fast as a horse. Faster, in fact. The reason this mattered was because the group that had set out from Woll’s Waystation were returning—and the Cericel were going to catch them.
“Larr! Rasktooth! Cover those riders! Silver Swords, with me! Everyone else, get back! The Cericel are a Gold-rank threat when led by a Maven!”
Ylawes was running full-tilt, wishing he were on horseback, and Falene was shouting.
“Ylawes, you can’t solo it! Come back!”
He knew this was true and that without enchanted armor it might rip through even steel with its claws, but the Gold-rank adventurer was operating on instinct.
They can jump regular city walls. They’ll butcher those ten Humans then leap the keep walls, and they get faster when they drink blood. He activated a Skill, knowing he was too far.
[The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel].
His leap took him maybe forty feet, and Dawil shouted as Ylawes advanced, but the running [Knight] still felt like he was in slow water. The Cericel were bounding at the Humans, and the firefight was quick.
Off-their-guard or not, the Humans from House Lycit were armed. Two turned and fired crossbows. A Cericel closing on them staggered; it didn’t fall. And the Drakes…
The Drakes had closed the gates. The [Riders] saw that and screamed, swerving around the walls, but the Drakes were firing arrows and bracing with spears.
The…right call for other monsters. Not Cericel. But there were people on the walls taking shots at the monsters. Unfortunately, Cericel were so fast—Ylawes saw one twist and guessed it had dodged an arrow. They were headed for the Humans, who had changed directions and were heading for the caravan; the wagons were turning, forming a circle, and more arrows were flying as [Guards] rushed to fill the gaps. Another smart move—again, against an enemy that wouldn’t just—
“They’re going to jump! Watch your backs!”
The voice that cracked from behind Ylawes was loud and familiar. Falene! She’d used what magic she could to warn the waystation and caravan. Ylawes saw real panic amongst both sides now, and he realized she’d thrown the last of her magic at the only other person who could help.
Dawil was charging after Ylawes, enhanced with [Speed]. Almost on his heels—
“Pekona, get back!”
She was sprinting after them, blade unsheathed, and Ylawes motioned her back, then gave up and kept running. Three of them versus two dozen Cericel—
No, wait, a bit less. Three were down. The arrows being shot at them were hitting the ones who stumbled. Even as Ylawes watched, another twisted midleap, then fell, and he heard a thin, high-pitched scream before its body began to jerk.
“They’re hitting it! Must be some [Archer] on the walls!”
Indeed, a fifth Cericel went down, a visible wound in the leg, before they hit the wagons. Ylawes could only run and watch.
It was bloody. The Cericel bounded into the wagons, slashing, then backed up and jumped the wagons. They landed on the other side, and Ylawes heard screams—then half of them were leaping over the wagons.
Half dead? Or just fighting—he saw two more crawling over the wagon’s sides, blood on their talons. The Maven was shrieking.
Cericel were tactical. They could tell when they were outnumbered, and she was after easy game. Such as…she spun around, and Ylawes saw a rocking wagon headed away from the Waystation. Someone had panicked and was turning around—easy game just out of range of anyone.
Ylawes tried to run faster. The Maven was bounding around in a circle, out of the Waystation’s range, and he was shouting.
“[Challenge of the Knight]! This way! This—”
The Maven was too far or just ignored his challenge. The wagon was racing eastwards, as if there was anything to take cover that way. He saw everyone else was either ducking down, trying to avoid the Cericel’s attention, or grouped together to fight. Which was naïve; the monsters smelled blood.
Cericel. One of House Byres’ old foes, or so the old stories went. Not quite Vampires; they’d popped up after Vampires, but they had so many weaknesses that were the same.
Including an aversion to silver. His breastplate would make them recoil, but the Gravesword, ironically, wouldn’t be the best weapon here. Ylawes’ lungs were burning as he saw the Maven turn and race past a group of Humans, who’d frozen. Five of them—he was ready to break towards them if the Cericel split, but the Maven wanted the screaming horses. More blood.
The five civilians were frozen, unarmored, with hands over their mouths or pointing, all except for one. One of them, wearing odd clothing, was kneeling, bracing something long in his hands against one shoulder. An odd tube…
Ylawes saw the Maven beginning to bound away when he heard a sharp, loud crack and saw the other four Humans recoil. The tube flashed, and he heard it for the first time ever.
Crack. 
Pause. 
Crack. 
Pause. 
Crack.
 
——
 
Nailren’s bow was drawn, but he couldn’t hit the Cericel. He could slide down the ramparts of the Waystation, but if they turned on him, he was dead.
That wagon was dead. However, he could see someone in armor running at them, and he swore he’d heard Falene’s voice.
If that’s the Silver Swords, I’ll go over the edge when they engage. Nailren snapped at Woll.
“Who here can fight? That’s a Gold-rank team out there. We have to back them up!”
“No one’s high-enough level. Not our visitors today—Fetta, can you back Labright up?”
Woll was ice-cold, watching through a spyglass. The Drake by his side hesitated, and Nailren eyed her.
[Assassin]. He hoped she was quick. He was about to ask if the Waystation would consider opening its doors to sally out if the Maven were taken out when he heard it.
Crack.
He flinched, and so did every Gnoll on the walls.
“What the hell was that?”
It was loud, hurt Nailren’s sensitive ears, and he saw the Maven, mid-leap, falter. She screamed, spun, and there was maybe a half-second’s delay before—
Crack. There it was again! The Maven visibly flinched and clawed at her chest. She reared up, casting around, left, right—
Crack. The third shot made Woll whistle and Nailren blink. He swore he saw the Maven’s mouth open before tiny flecks sprayed out of the back of her throat and head.
Did something just go through—? She was clawing at her throat when she slowly, ponderously, collapsed. The Cericel around her were shrieking, bounding around the downed Maven and nudging her. They couldn’t believe she was dead.
Nailren couldn’t believe it either. He stared, waiting for the giant, Gold-rank threat—on her own, she was considered a threat for a Gold-rank team—
And she didn’t move. She twitched, and then Nailren was leaping the walls, ignoring Woll’s shouts and running, because he had to see. Something—he saw the [Knight] shouting as the Cericel turned and drew an arrow to his bow.
But the strange sound didn’t come again.
 
——
 
It was a monster like nothing he had ever seen before. Not even a polar bear came close to that thing’s height. And it was so…foul.
Ragged, loose skin, long fangs, blood on its long claws—the very image of a horror. It had almost made Russell freeze, but he’d dropped to one knee and lined up his shot.
Hesitated. He had hesitated given how far away it was, until it hit the caravans. Then he’d seen the creature bounding out and realized it was now or never.
So he fired the Winchester and hit her in the chest. Her? The second round had struck the same spot before he’d aimed for the open mouth, between the teeth.
He’d never shot so smoothly before. His Skills—that had to be it.
[Stabilized Aim], [Reduced Recoil], [Smooth Reload]—no fumbling the rifle rounds as he cranked the bolt-action back and slotted another in. He was fast. Three shots, and on the third, he remembered the Skill that he had, the only one that fit under ‘active’ Skills according to Erin.
[Hollow-Point Shot].
Had it actually changed that final rifle round to act like that kind of ammunition? If so, it had been a kill-shot. Russell had a fourth round chambered, ready to fire, but he never did.
“Russell, there’s more of ‘em! Shoot!”
Chester was shouting, but Russell saw a man running into the fight with a sword and shield next to a Dwarf, and he was so entranced he said and did nothing. Just watched as the first of the jumping horrors leapt on the man and ran right into his sword. The Human kicked the writhing thing off his blade, turned, hit the second biting creature with his shield, and swung around.
“Silver Swords—on me!”
Then Russell met the fantasy. And he never took his eyes away from the [Knight] who fought back-to-back with the Dwarf. He wasn’t certain, seeing the shorter man—until he saw a running woman with a glowing staff throwing a shining spear at one of the screaming monsters. Then he whispered.
“‘Aye, I could do that.’”
“Is that…no way. Chat, are you seeing this right now?”
Honarai turned around to peek at nothing at all, and Chester rubbed at his eyes.
“Is that an Elf?”
“And others.”
There was a dog-man that looked Egyptian, another Dwarf, a running bug-person that made Russell start and remember Erin’s words, a lizard-man, and even a little, screeching…
“Goblin.”
It didn’t look like the ones he imagined, but there they were, and last of all he saw a running, tall archer with a bow, which—
“Wookie.”
Arnie was pointing, dazed, and Russell frowned at him.
“Gnoll.”
They didn’t really look like that. But he just lowered his rifle, watching as the Silver Swords cleaned up the rest of the screaming things. Only when it seemed like the last ones were running did Russell start, cycled the bolt, and began dismantling his rifle.
“Russell, what are you doing?”
Lenora saw him grab the pack Arnie had dropped, and Russell snapped at her.
“Hiding this. Help me. Chester, the shotgun, the shotgun!”
He snatched it when Chester stared at him; Russell remembered Erin’s first warning for him. He tore out items to hide the gun pieces, then wrapped them in the tent and shoved it all back inside. He nearly did the same for his revolver, but then left it at his side.
Just in case. He dithered, then grabbed some cord, yanked off his holster from his chest, and took his shirt off.
“What’re you—”
They stared at him, but Lenora got it. She hesitated, then grabbed a loop of cord and helped him; he tied the revolver around his stomach, hiding it against his shirt. It was not comfy, and he taped the hammer down, but that was all he could do.
By the time he’d finished his furious packing, the monsters were gone, and there was cheering and shouting. Russell got up and saw Chester, Arnie, and Honarai were already waving at the people who’d fought the monsters off.
“Remember, everyone, be cool, be normal.”
Chester was calling out, and Lenora gave Russell a look.
“Did they see you firing?”
“Maybe.”
He wasn’t sure how visible it would have been in the chaos, and he’d been in the grass, so the muzzle flash was hidden, but they’d know something had killed that big monster. He turned to her.
“Don’t let anyone take my pack. I’m not letting go of it, but if I do for any reason, or someone’s messing with it—”
“I’ve got it. Is this…are we in Izril?”
He stared at the mix of species, then saw another lizard-person coming out of the dirt fort. He squinted, trying to tell which species was most predominant, then shrugged.
“Guess we’ll find out. Don’t say anything you don’t have to.”
They had to blend in. He wished he could tell the others that, especially Honarai and Chester…but then it was too late.
 
——
 
“—just like that. A damn Maven. I didn’t know we had Cericel around here. Lad, this isn’t good.”
“I know, I know. Larr, what killed it?”
The first thing Russell heard was the Dwarf’s voice. It was deep, concerned, but glorious. He was standing next to the corpse of the ‘Maven’, and Russell saw someone had beheaded it.
“Smart.”
That was his first, unguarded comment, and it got him a glance from one of the people standing around. The lizard-guy, who was short, had black scales, and two drawn daggers. He nodded at Russell.
“Standard practice for any monster. You Humans alright?”
He bared all his teeth, and Russell’s heart jumped, but Lenora thrust a hand out.
“Oh my goodness, thank you! We were so afraid when we saw them come out of nowhere. What did you call them?”
“Cericel. They’re not supposed to be here—I guess they moved to the New Lands too. Insill. You’re lucky we were here. Well, the Silver Swords, really. I barely got to stab anyone.”
The Drake held out a claw, and Lenora shook his hand after only a beat.
“Lenora. And this is Russell…”
She was doing pretty good, actually. Russell had been going to glare at her, but she’d even remembered that thing Erin had said.
Don’t say ‘oh my God’. Don’t use ‘God’ at all. They’re around. You don’t want to meet them.
Chills. Then Insill stuck out a clawed hand, and Russell—hesitated. He took the clawed hand gently, and Insill glanced at him. Russell saw that face, beyond the world’s most perfect costume, shift to one of slight concern.
“Don’t worry, I won’t scratch you.”
“I—sorry.”
“Never shook hands with someone with claws?”
“Uh, no.”
Rather than take offense, Insill bared his teeth again.
“You two must be Terandrian, then. You hurt? Did you see what hit that Maven? She just keeled over.”
“Us? No. What, uh, what are you doing here?”
“Oh, we’re just adventurers. The Silver Swords. I mean, my team’s Vuliel Drae, Silver-rankers, but we’re all one group right now. That’s Ylawes, our Captain.”
The very friendly, very helpful Drake jerked a thumb at Ylawes, and Russell had to ask.
“That guy there. He’s a Dwarf, right? And that’s an Elf?”
“…Half-Elf? Yeah, Falene and Dawil. Why? Do they all seem like Humans to you?”
Insill began chortling until someone jabbed him.
“Insill.”
A one-armed woman had come over and was cleaning her blade with a cloth. She’d been beheading the Cericel, and Insill whined.
“It’s just a joke! I was just—these two are Terandrians. They have trouble telling apart Humans too! What’s the difference between a short Human and a tall Dwarf?”
“It’s Dasha either way.”
The swordswoman murmured, and the two began laughing until said woman, who was less Dwarf-like and a bit taller—and who had a beard—stomped over.
“I heard that! Wait, who’re this lot?”
Lenora introduced them, and Dasha shook Russell’s hand with amazing grip strength. She had an axe, he realized. Just a real axe—
Surreal, head spinning, and he knew Lenora was probably just as overwhelmed, but she was thanking the embarrassed Silver-rankers. Russell turned to the others. Worried they’d be freaking out or—
Chester was shaking Ylawes’ hand, and he regarded the short Drake who’d come over.
“Chester Mackintosh. Thank you so much for your heroism, Captain Ylawes. We’re travellers, and when we saw the monsters—what did you call them?—appear, we were worried for our lives.”
“Not at all, sir. I’m only glad the Maven fell so easily. But what hit it? Was that your keep, sir?”
The Drake, Woll, blinked at the dead monstrosity.
“Not us. I thought it was you—is that a Goblin?”
He backed up, and everyone behind him reached for a weapon, then there was a shout.
“A-Antinium! Watch out!”
Russell saw a Drake draw two long, curved blades from sheaths on her back so fast he recoiled. His hand went for his revolver—which wasn’t there, but along his stomach—and the [Knight] threw out a hand.
“Wait, wait, they’re with us! They’re adventurers!”
All the attention was deflected away from Russell and the mysterious dead Maven as everyone, especially the Drakes, freaked out over the Goblin and ‘Antinium’. Russell edged around the group, staring. He heard a furious argument behind him.
“—killed on sight, I don’t care how—”
“We’re adventurers, and—”
“—something, Woll! We can’t stand for it, not with honest Drakes around!”
Then a cool, loud voice.
“You want to do that, strangers? Are we talking, trading, or dying then? Because you touch our friends and it’s the last option.”
Russell swivelled, and the arrival of honest-to-god Vikings…it wasn’t the final blow because his mind was already spinning, but he just stared at them and nodded.
Why not?
Vikings.
 
——
 
As the argument between the two sides raged, and a man came running out to check on his caravan and ask if anyone was a [Healer]—they had wounded—Russell saw Arnie and Honarai.
“E-excuse me, you’re—you’re—”
The Elf—no, half-Elf was panting, leaning on her staff, and grimacing as if hurt. She straightened though when Arnie stood in front of her, mouth open. She was…
It was the same thing all Earthers saw in half-Elves. The same thing anyone did the first time they met one. A painful realization of what immortality looked like.
This is exactly what they wrote of. Nothing less. Falene Skystrall smiled at the tongue-tied Earther.
“Yes? Falene Skystrall, Silver Swords. And you are?”
“Uh, Ala—Ala—Arnie.”
It seemed like he caved at the last second, and she held out a hand. He shook it, and she nodded.
“Hello. Are you with that group we passed?”
“Um—yeah. That was—you were casting magic.”
Falene’s brows rose as she eyed his clothing, and then she glanced at her staff.
“Oh, yes. Even with the mana drain, a high-level [Battlemage] can cast a few spells. I only regret I couldn’t do more. I’m rather exhausted at the moment.”
“Mana. [Battlemage].”
“Er…yes.”
Falene eyed Arnie’s open-mouthed expression and hesitated, clearly unsure of what to say next. She forced a smile.
“Are you hurt?”
He didn’t say anything, but Honarai pushed forwards.
“Hey, you are amazing. My name’s Honarai, but you can call me ‘Hona’—can I ask you everything? How’d you get your class? Can you teach me any spells? Your ears are amazing. Can I touch them? Or is that super rude? We’re new here—your fit is also incredible. Is this fantasy-core clothing?”
Falene didn’t know what to say as she tried to answer the young woman in order. She was glancing around when Russell stepped forwards just in time to grab Arnie.
“I’m a [H—”
“Thank you for saving us. We should get Chester and Lenora.”
He tried to yank Honarai back as well, and she complained.
“What? Come on! Russell!”
Falene stared at the three of them, but then was drawn back into the argument between the Drakes and Silver Swords. Russell hissed at them.
“You idiots! Don’t give away anything!”
“What? I’m just asking questions.”
Honarai protested and Arnie tapped her on the shoulder.
“She knows magic. We should get her to teach us some.”
Russell shook his head, incredulous.
“What? How? We don’t have money, we don’t have anything to trade—”
“—And she definitely has conditioner. No one has hair like that without shampoo and the works.”
Honarai added. Russell hissed at them.
“Just be normal!”
Chester had found Lenora and was listening to the debate without inserting himself, eyes flicking back and forth. The Earthers stood to the side, all of them trying to piece together the argument, which sounded like it was ending.
“No violence! Not at my Waystation! I’m not tempting the wrath of Cenidau or Gold-rankers—who just fought the Cericel off, I might add—and if anyone has a problem with the Goblin or Antinium, they can settle this. Ten miles away! No one fights here!”
A Human whirled to Woll, incredulously.
“You’re not going to bar them from the Waystation?”
Woll eyed Rasktooth and Infinitypear, then the Cenidau warriors. His eyes flickered.
“If I do, does that violate Cenidau hospitality?”
“It does.”
Evor shot back, and Woll beamed.
“Excellent. My claws are tied. I’m neutral. Who has a claim on those monster corpses, and are they edible? They don’t look like it, but if they are—I’ll make an offer. The lowest offer. Now, back to the Waystation! Tea’s on me!”
He marched off, and the others followed him or went off muttering, and the Silver Swords were talking amongst themselves.
“Right, let’s get in there.”
Russell nodded, and Chester agreed. They were just about to walk over with the crowd when someone spoke up.
“Are you alright?”
One of the tall…Gnolls was watching them. He stuck out a paw, and Russell blinked.
“Labright, [Traveller]. I saw you just missed the Cericel horde.”
“Er, Russell. [Traveller] too. We were lucky, yeah.”
Nailren sniffed the air as Russell shook the paw gingerly, and the Gnoll nodded.
“Did you just come into the Waystation? How far west were you?”
Russell squeezed his toes against his boots, not knowing what to say, but Honarai jumped instantly.
“Oh, we’ve been in the grassland for ages. And we were eating birds and stuff—and we dodged another horrific thing with lots of teeth—hello! Honarai.”
She shook his hand, beaming, and Nailren smiled at her without baring his teeth.
“Where are you from? I’m from Pallass—”
“Well, we’re from Terandria…”
“Oh, what kingdom?”
Honarai was drawing breath, but before she could speak—and she seemed so confident—someone shouted.
“Hey, Nailren! Is that you? Couldn’t get away from us?”
Insill bounded over, and Nailren whirled, then raised a paw.
“Insill. Ah, I’m glad you made it. Are those Cenidau warriors? I should say hello to Captain Ylawes. Please, excuse me.”
He turned, and Honarai waved.
“Thanks for saving us, Nailren! Love those earrings!”
When he had walked off to shake hands with the [Knight], whom he clearly knew, Honarai leaned over to Russell and whispered.
“Jeez, good thing that happened. Because I was just gonna say ‘Cenidau’ or something. Do you think this is Izril after—”
Russell grabbed her arm. She hesitated, and he drew her back and whispered.
“Not here.”
She opened her mouth, and he pointed. He’d been watching Nailren’s ears, and they were long and, well, furry-like. Like a wolf’s.
How good was his hearing? The other Earthers around Russell blinked, and then they were hurrying inside the Waystation. Chester was glancing around.
“I think we pretend we’ve been here or—there’s a one copper coin fee. Let’s not pay that. Hey, did that Gnoll say his name was ‘Nailren’?”
“That’s what they’re calling him—why?”
Russell blinked, and Chester glanced at the Gnoll.
“He said his name was Labright before.”
The [Gunslinger] peeked over his shoulder, and then he subtly checked on his pack. And he resolved to stay away from that Gnoll in particular. Fortunately, the chaos around the Cericel and the Goblin and Antinium were a distraction—as well as the last visitor to arrive at the Waystation.
 
——
 
“It’s Labright in the Waystation.”
Nailren wished Insill hadn’t been so friendly—some [Rogue]. However, the Silver Swords were not big on dissembling. He gave up as he saw Ylawes frown.
“I’ll just say it’s my last name. Listen, did you see what hit the Maven?”
Ylawes hesitated and glanced around.
“I swear I saw someone with a weird object, but I don’t know if it was that—it was powerful.”
“Three shots and the Maven was down. I swear I saw bits of it flying out the third time. What was that?”
Dawil glanced at the dead Maven, and Nailren kept his face blank. Larr was sneezing.
“It hurt my ears and there’s a damn stench in the air! You don’t smell it, Anith?”
The only other member of a species with a sensitive nose was rubbing at his.
“Yes, it’s acrid. Could it have been a spell?”
“No mana. Crossbow?”
“True, but who…?”
Nailren was conscious of the five Humans walking into the camp behind him. He was playing it cool, but Falene Skystrall was whispering to Dawil. At this, she glanced up.
“Ylawes, I think we need to confer. Captain Nailren, maybe we should share information? We have a mystery on our hands.”
“Perhaps.”
Nailren agreed calmly, and he eyed Dawil, whose brows were fully up. It was Rasktooth and Infinitypear who raised their hands.
“Uh, Captain, you know how you say to say important stuff even if we is not sure and this is bad time?”
“Yes, Rasktooth? Did you see what did that?”
The Cave Goblin shook his head, but he nudged Infinitypear, and the Antinium pointed.
“Those five Humans are Earthers, Captain.”
Everyone turned to the Antinium, and Nailren saw Falene rub at her temples. She might have wished to keep that secret; Evor and the Cenidau warriors twisted around, confused. Ylawes’ eyes widened.
“They are? How can you tell?”
Rasktooth glanced at Infinitypear, who counted on his fingers.
“They have odd clothing. They speak oddly. They stare at other species. And they have that weird stuff. The stuff only Earthers have. I saw the pretty Human with colored hair hide it. It not metal, and it not wood.”
“Ah. The stuff Kevin’s laptop is made of. I saw that too.”
Dawil murmured. Nailren’s ears perked up.
And here I stayed away from the inn because I really didn’t want to become a damned regular, doomed to always be sucked into Erin’s orbit. Ylawes was scratching at his head.
“I’ve never seen that.”
“It’s that thing Ryoka had, lad. You know that rectangle that lights up?”
“Oh, right…are you certain?”
“Only one thing to do. Keep an eye on ‘em, ask them where they’re from, and wait for one of them to do the finger guns or something. Shouldn’t take long. Pointy, you got mana for a [Message]? Assuming this area’s clear of mana drain.”
She was grimacing.
“I’m tapped. Anith?”
“Dead zone, I’m afraid. But Mrsha checks in regularly.”
Nailren let out a breath. More Earthers. Standard enough, none of his business, but…he hesitated and glanced at the dead Maven. Ylawes looked down too, and Larr finally found what he was searching for
“It’s all hacked up because someone sliced her head off, Pekona. But look at her chest.”
He’d found two small wounds that went deep. Nailren squatted down.
“Mind if I look?”
He sat there for a bit as people came out to inspect the bodies—the Silver Swords headed into the Waystation—and hmmed as he worked with his knife. Spoony wanted to go inside, but the ghost lingered until Nailren, who had a lot of gore on his paws, found what he wanted.
“Aha.”
He couldn’t find more than one; had the others fallen out or something? But he picked up the hard, foreign object and stared at it. A crumpled up piece of metal. Nailren pocketed it as he pretended to wash his paws off.
Not your ordinary Earthers at all. But the problem was—he was a Gnoll alone. No tribe, and he was out of his old work. Even so…
He was so damn curious.
 
——
 
There was something…familiar about Woll’s Waystation. Oh, it wasn’t great, even by the low standards of the Silver Swords. There was literally no roof anywhere except for the keep, and a brief rain popped up after the fight with the Cericel. Which revealed that yes, there were leaks in the fast-made building.
However, when Ylawes shook hands with the over-caffeinated Woll and caught his breath, yes…he knew this.
A building where people gathered in the middle of arguably-dangerous lands, fighting off monsters, with a quirky caretaker and adventurers and strange children from another planet?
It felt like home, in a perverse way, that not even House Byres felt like. Here, a Gold-rank adventurer thought, just for a moment, that he might find people who understood his brand of insanity.
If anything, Woll was the one unprepared for the Silver Swords. He’d finished peeing—again—and was introducing himself to the Cenidau warriors, who were distinctly unimpressed by the waystation. Styrvi dumped a roll of pelts down on the ground.
“We’ve hides to trade. Not much. The skin of some giant reptile we slew—how much is it worth?”
“Hmm. How much? Well, we don’t have a [Tanner] or anyone to appraise it. Tell you what, I’ll throw in a bag of tea, and…”
Falene was tilting her head as Ylawes glanced around for the possible-Earthers, but they’d vanished amidst the crowds, and everyone was staring at Rasktooth and Infinitypear. True to their nature, Poke Duo were going around shaking hands.
“Hello, I am Infinitypear and this is Rasktooth. We are not monsters.”
“I technically a monster because I’m in the monster bestiary. Goblins has eight whole pages, big record.”
There was something about the two that drew attention to them, the same as Anith, actually. The Jackal Beastkin was so unfamiliar every Gnoll had come over to say hello, and they’d drawn the others with them.
It left the Silver Swords free to investigate. Dawil instantly strode off.
“Latrines, then I’ll see about getting us work.”
“I’ll ask around too, Dawil.”
The Dwarf hesitated, about to do his customary slap on the back and needling comment to begin the competition, but he held up a finger.
“Just one thing, lad. Let’s not commit to anything this time, eh? We’re just getting offers and there’s no need to promise things on your honor or word, right? Remember the [Merchant]?”
Ylawes’ cheeks went red. He hesitated, but knew he deserved it and ducked his head.
“I do. No promises, Dawil.”
The Dwarf hesitated another moment, then forced a smile and tugged at his beard.
“Right, well then, we’ll see who gets the best offers. May the smartest Dwarf win!”
Ylawes folded his arms and glowered at the Dwarf in a rare show of actual pique, and Falene half-smiled.
“What’s the score?”
“I think it’s…16-23.”
Pekona turned to them. She was half-inclined to go with her team, but clearly didn’t want to be as social as Insill or Dasha. Even Larr was chatting with his people, but the Drathian [Sword Dancer] seemed like an outsider even in her team. She hesitated.
“What numbers are those?”
Ylawes hesitated, about to say it was silly, but he realized the Silver Swords’ little in-jokes probably meant it was hard to understand what they were doing, so he coughed, flushing slightly.
“How many times we’ve landed a good contract. When we’re seeking. Random offers don’t count, or missions of mercy. Dawil and I will go searching for work, and whomever gets the best offer…”
Pekona nodded until Falene put in.
“Ylawes is the ‘16’. Dawil has a pattern of finding better-paying jobs. One time, he actually secured a better offer—from the same client. Ylawes doesn’t negotiate.”
“I negotiate! I just—don’t press hard.”
Ylawes muttered as Pekona hid a smile with her hand. Falene directed her attention back to Woll.
“Fascinating. I’m going to investigate the economy of this place.”
That was a purely Falene-decision, and Ylawes was looking around for that [Merchant] who might need escorts after the Cericel attack. He walked off, but Pekona lingered.
“What kind of economy?”
Ylawes hesitated; he’d have liked her to come with him, but Falene seemed pleased by the question. She pushed her spectacles up the bridge of her nose.
“Well, how is Master Woll going to make a profit off those hides? They might have been skinned well enough, but quality control must be an issue. Moreover, a few hides is not worth much. Oh, in the New Lands, if you could process them, everyone needs gear. I don’t see any other infrastructure here. So either he must hold onto them, process the hides himself, or send them to Izril proper for payment, which incurs costs in transportation—and the goods are worth less in Izril. The hide of the animal—a crocodile, I believe—would be worth more for novelty. But the rest?”
Her lecture to Pekona made the [Sword Dancer] nod.
“So he should hire a [Tanner].”
“Yes…though building a tannery? Difficult; it’s a noxious place. And how much food does he have? Even with trade, will he have shortfalls? He seems to store goods, but security and [Thieves] must be an issue.”
Ylawes glanced at Pekona and Falene. Well…yes, when she put it like that, this was a big and risky undertaking. If he thought about it for two seconds, he’d have come to largely the same conclusions, if not as technical as Falene.
But because she’d pointed it out, he did linger long enough to see Woll buy the furs. Not for much, but he offered Evor a gold coin and some silver before striding over.
“Ah, Silver Swords, was it? My earholes are burning. Did I hear someone talking about trade? Even the [Merchants] seem more concerned with finding valuable goods than sending them…well, I do not have the funds to do more than develop this waystation at the moment, and as you can see, we had to make do. Our [Mason] developed some kind of sickness on the first night, and we had to rush him back to Goisedall.”
“Oh dear. What kind of sickness?”
Woll shook his head, grimacing.
“I don’t know, but it was a high fever, and the man was sick and constantly—well, let us just say he used the privy quite a lot. Terrible, terrible—it’s hit half the people I brought.”
Falene glanced at Ylawes, alarmed, and Woll hurried to clarify.
“That was before we set up the waystation! I rather suspect it was some off-meat or something. At any rate, I have an open request for more [Builders], anyone with useful Skills for this spot. In time, I’d like a road back to Goisedall. The first trade road through the New Lands. Now, what can I do for you all? Anything to trade? That is a fine hide from a—crocodile you said, Miss Falene? I do think it’d be worth something in Izril.”
Ylawes re-introduced himself and explained they were looking to be hired. Woll smiled.
“Well then, this might be a good place to linger a day or two. I don’t know if Merchant Kileth needs more hands—I’d say he’s in the market for some, but that might have rattled him, poor man. He may well turn around here.”
“Have you seen that happen?”
“Oh, quite often. This is where it occurs; caravans come in, peer across Kishkeria’s Grasslands, and count how much food they’ve got now that their magic’s out and farming’s bad. Then they turn around. Or they try the grasslands, run out of food, and come back here in a mess. Or just don’t come back at all.”
Falene’s brows had risen.
“Truly? But while the magic issue is dire, it’s not insurmountable—I can cast magic, if a limited amount per day. And if I eat more food or run into any good magic sources, I can [Harvest Mana].”
Ylawes blinked at her, and Woll nodded.
“True! We had some [Sorcerer] come through. The Amazing, Astonishing Leireit or some such. However, most caravans don’t have Level 30 [Mages], Miss Falene. And the farming…they could live without magic, but without food?”
He shook his head, and Falene tilted her head to one side.
“…But you can fix that too. The Archmage of Memory has created a ritual that allows one to purify the earth. Not much, but—”
“He’s what?”
Woll’s voice rose, and Ylawes realized—the man had no access to [Message] spells. In the next second, Woll was towing Falene over.
“Attention! We have a [Mage] with [Message] spells with critical information about the New Lands! Mage Falene—you, we need a billboard or something. A way to post messages!”
It was like Erin all over again; Woll ran and found some planks of wood and was cobbling together a billboard as Falene delivered her information.
“A ground-purification ritual? Do you know the spell?”
Everyone was astonished, and Falene hesitated.
“No…but I could learn it, I think. It’s complex to impart via [Message] spell, but I could pull it off, I think. Then you’d need at least four Level 10 [Mages] capable of linking.”
Woll came striding back over, followed by several interested people.
“I don’t know what that is, but we have magic-users.”
A Drake [Mage] leading her team gestured at her chest.
“So do we. I practice a bit of it myself. Miss Falene, can you teach someone? If you taught me or I got the instructions—I’ll pay you to teach it!”
The [Battlemage] glanced at Ylawes, uncertain, but he was thinking and nodded slowly.
“It’s a very important thing, Falene. Others might come with the knowledge, but if that came with somewhere to sleep, and food while Falene works? I have to ask Dawil, but I think it makes sense, don’t you, Falene?”
Woll nodded rapidly as she thought it over.
“Let’s do a deal, Captain. We can find room for your team!”
The Drake was beaming, as he produced his clipboard and prepared to write things up, but Ylawes leaned over as Falene began to get names of potential students.
“I’ve never had to teach linking—it’s advanced, and it’s usually an entire semester in Wistram—”
“We’ll learn it fast or die trying.”
If there was no other recourse for [Mages] but that—she took a breath, then glanced at Pekona.
“Pekona, my pack on the horses—I need my notes, please?”
Pekona dashed off as Ylawes nodded at his team.
“Obviously, we’ll take a fee from anyone who wants to learn. A very reasonable one.”
“Naturally, naturally, but I’ll compensate you for this, Captain. This knowledge benefits us all. Woll’s Waystation is a place I intend to be essential—and this is just the thing. Information as well as trade.”
Woll’s eyes were gleaming, and Ylawes coughed.
“To that end, Woll—I’d hire more guards. And build those walls higher.”
“Of course, Captain. The Cericel attack proves we need security, and it’s on the list as soon as I get some more [Builders]. As I said, my team—”
Ylawes went on as Woll chattered.
“I would also see if I could persuade some of the people passing through to work for you. You need a good staff. A good staff, thick walls—I’d make the Waystation as wide as you can, but twenty feet, at least. And…crossbows. An entry hallway, maybe. With traps. Somewhere to funnel attackers.”
Woll blinked at Ylawes.
“I…that seems a bit excessive, Captain. I’d like an open trading post, not some kind of military checkpoint back home. Drakes already have a stigma attached to them, and I’d like not to play into that.”
He grinned, but the [Knight] turned to Woll, and his face was so serious that the [Secretary] hesitated. Ylawes stared at an [Innkeeper] who was not that much taller than Woll and saw someone resting on a frozen bier. He put a hand on Woll’s shoulder.
“As someone who’s seen a place like this growing before, Woll, I’d insist it’s very important. If not the hallway—there will be trouble. When the troubles comes, we might not be there. Then it’ll just be you and only the people who you can count on. It could be a lot worse than the Cericel.”
Woll blinked at Ylawes, not sure what to say, until the man smiled.
“Forgive me, it may be unnecessary.”
“No. No, you’re right. Only a fool makes a mistake twice. Or fails to listen to the expert. I have been the fool and here is the expert. Salii would toss me off a tower if I didn’t—well, then. I’ll look into it. Quickly.”
The [Secretary] took Ylawes’ advice and switched from reluctance to acceptance so fast it threw Ylawes, but the [Knight] was relieved. He ducked his head.
“I apologize if I’m wrong, it’s just—yes, I do think it’s best. I’m no expert on security but I’d be happy to answer any questions you have. Ah, but on another topic, what did you have in mind for compensation?”
Only then did the Drake seem to think to ask where Ylawes had come from. But when the man said House Byres, that told Woll nothing.
After ten minutes, Dawil walked back into the waystation, wiping his hands on a handkerchief and grimacing.
“I really wish I had toilet paper. And somewhere to wash my hands instead of a damn bucket. At least we’ve got soap. Eugh, the things you see…so any progress on deals yet, Anith? Where’s Pointy and the lad?”
He turned, and the Jackal Beastkin pointed wordlessly at Falene and Ylawes. Dawil’s face screwed up.
“Aw. Every time, it’s just his damn luck. Every time, I swear…”
 
——
 
Russell’s mind was being blown every ten seconds in the waystation. It wasn’t that there was magic everywhere. On the contrary, the lack of it and the feeling that this really was some kind of ramshackle, border trading outpost in the middle of nowhere made it feel even realer to him.
Because it meant this wasn’t the best of what the world had to offer. With that said—
Everyone’s got steel or leather. He’d noted Ylawes wearing plate armor, but even aside from the Cenidau warriors, there were Drakes strutting around with leather and chainmail, sharp-looking weapons on hips.
“Everyone’s dressed like a—a fantasy story.”
Lenora breathed as she and Russell stood together. He nodded.
“Lots of metal.”
“Mhm. More than I’d draw. How many smithies do you have to run to produce enough for everyone? In the dark ages of Europe, this much steel would have been impossible for anyone but someone of the nobility to own, or a professional mercenary.”
Russell twisted around, surprised.
“You know history?”
“I mean…yes? A bit? I worked on other projects before. Fantasies. I had to research lore-accurate clothing and backgrounds when I was put in charge of those. This—this isn’t a dream, is it?”
She was biting on her thumbnail and staring at a Drake as he strolled down the walls, spear on his shoulder, and both watched his scales moving slightly with every step, the light catching each one, flashing orange as he yawned, revealing his teeth and…for a second, Russell understood Lenora’s anguished eyes.
“No one could animate or draw that. Not in such detail. I thought we might be in some sick virtual reality, you know, with artificial intelligence or…but no one can draw that.”
That was how she believed this was real. Russell had already believed the moment he had smelled another world and bent down to touch the grass.
The sight of the Cericel Maven had also proven it to him; no creature dreamt of in God’s creation on Earth could move like that thing.
Speaking of which, he wished he’d skinned the animals he’d shot, or got some meat, because this was clearly a place to trade, and they had no coins. Food, supplies, everything could be had here, and Russell tried to think of anything he could sell.
…Nothing. Everything I have is clearly not what they’re wearing. Even his clothing might be ‘cotton’, but he had a lot of polyester fabrics, good, lightweight gear that anyone would clock as unique a mile off.
How do we earn money? The answer seemed to be spending bullets—shoot one of the deer, skin it, take the meat and hide back for profit. But how many bullets could he spend?
Just don’t miss, and see what’s the most valuable here. He nodded to Lenora.
“You see the others? They keep wandering off. Let’s figure how to make money.”
“Sure.”
They saw Arnie walking around the small waystation keep; he was listening to the half-Elf, Falene, not really saying much. He seemed to be absorbing her talk about magic. Chester was nowhere to be seen, but Honarai…
“So you’re from Salazsar. City of Gems? I’ve never been!”
She was chatting to a Drake with a teapot as she sipped tea, and Russell groaned—but the [Streamer] was good at talking and, it seemed, savvier than he’d given her credit for. The female Drake shrugged.
“It’s not as rich as you’d imagine, Miss. No gemstones lining the streets, and the [Miners] might pull gold out of the ground, but they don’t keep it.”
“Aw. But how big are the gemstones? Also, your scales? Fabulous. How do you keep them in good shape out here? Also, do you know where to get supplies? We’re, like, out of money, and we’ve been stuck out here for ages.”
The Drake poured Honarai another cup, grimacing.
“Ouch. How’d you lose your money? Bag of holding explode?”
“Yes. Exactly. Russell’s the only one with a bag now!”
“Well…Woll might need hands, but food’s pretty dear. Tell you what, I’ll ask if we need help or something. But if you can hunt or you have enough food, just keep heading east. Goisedall’s only seven days on foot or less; depends on these rainstorms. The rivers are nasty but there are decent fording spots. And if you go straight east, there’ll be enough people coming this way that most monsters won’t be a problem. Where are you from, again?”
Honarai’s smile almost twinkled as she lifted a hand to her face.
“Tell you what, you guess which nation I’m from and I’ll tell you if you’re right. I bet it’s super obvious.”
“Well…I don’t know Terandrian kingdoms well—”
“Come on, it’ll be fun!”
Lenora whispered to Russell as they eyed Honarai.
“Oh, she’s good.”
He still wanted to say that she was taking too much of a risk. However, it proved that everyone here spoke English, like Erin had claimed, and they were…people.
To test this, he walked over to someone who he felt like he could talk to: a Gnoll that had a bloody tarp over something he kept swatting flies away from. They might be from different worlds, but the Gnoll sniffed at Russell, frowned a second, then nodded.
“Interested in buying? I’ve got half a Corusdeer here. Unsalted; I’m looking for eight gold pieces. Nothing less. It’s good, killed this morning, and unless anyone wants monster parts, it’s worth it in the New Lands.”
Russell put his hands in his pocket and didn’t smile, but shook his head amiably.
“I’m actually looking to hunt myself. Is eight gold a good price? And would you say that a Corusdeer’s the right thing to hunt? Sorry, but we just got here, and we’re low on money.”
He nodded to Lenora, who waved, and the Gnoll hesitated, then shrugged.
“It’s what I’m charging. I’d be lucky to get five gold for an entire deer with antlers back east, but here? Everyone needs meat. I just wish I had more salt. I’m thinking of smoking it—if I can get a source of wood. There’s some of those pink tree-things a ways east, but hauling it out here without a bag of holding…I just can’t carry it all. But hey, I leveled [Hunter]. Level 18. If I get some kind of hauling Skill, I’d be set.”
“Oh, nice. Was that a bow kill?”
Did they use spears? Crossbows? The Gnoll indicated a recurve bow on his back.
“Unenchanted. [Bleed Arrow]. Had to run it down for two miles, but better than them charging me. You a [Hunter]? Izrilian?”
“No…Terandrian.”
It seemed safe, and the Gnoll nodded.
“You hunt Corusdeer up there?”
“I haven’t before. I saw one yesterday, but I was worried about the horns.”
“Hrr. Might be a stray buck, yes? They can be loners. Most go in herds. Don’t shoot at them in a herd. I think that’s obvious, but sometimes an idiot tries it. Their horns? They ignite. If they charge you and hit you full-on, even with a healing potion you’re in trouble. Without one…?”
He shuddered and shook his head. Russell’s lips twitched.
Healing potion. The Gnoll stuck out a paw.
“My manners have left me with all this excitement. Oregg.”
“Russell.”
“[Hunter]?”
“No, uh…another class sort of like that.”
“You favor a crossbow? Wand? Or something crazy like a spear?”
Oregg checked out Russell, who clearly had no visible weapons on him, and the [Gunslinger] adapted fast.
“I’m—crossbows, yeah. I stow mine when I’m not using it. The rain’s going to rust it, and I don’t have much oil.”
That was the right thing to say. Oregg immediately began cursing the rain.
“It is, isn’t it? My bowstring’s already feeling like it’s fraying, and I wouldn’t want to have metal here—! And I paid for an enchantment that made my bowstrings last longer. That’s twenty gold I’ll not get back. Without magic, this is all so much harder. Still…at least we know how to survive, eh?”
He bared his teeth, and Russell copied him. They got to talking, and Oregg confirmed what Russell had suspected.
“Those fowl are tasty, but most creatures here are too small to be worth shooting if you miss your arrows. The Corusdeer are where I’m specialized.”
“With Skills…?”
“Sure. [Deer Hunter]’s my class. I have [Identify Stragglers], [Advanced Tracking]—nothing fancy. I’d love to take on bigger game, but again, I can’t carry it. Those Landsharks…”
He shuddered, and Russell felt his skin prickle.
“Worse than the Cericel?”
“I mean, worse, better, I’d be dead either way. Too many things that are actual predators out here. Were I you, I’d be careful how I camp. But a monster’s worth more than any animal, even a magic one like a Corusdeer. Damn, I wonder if those Cericel are worth something. Maybe we could harvest them if those adventurers are too busy.”
Oregg cast an eye towards the gates, but it seemed like a number of people had the same idea. The Gnoll, Larr, was loudly warning people off.
“We’re collecting their parts. Adventurer’s claim!”
“The meat and bones could be good bait for predators. But again, I’m not going to risk that.”
Russell glanced at Lenora.
“We ran into a—some kind of monster last night. It had two jaws, and it was fast. I wish I’d taken parts off it. What do you think would have sold?”
The Gnoll’s brows rose.
“I don’t know. I’m told there are valuable organs, but [Alchemists] get picky about those. Claws and teeth are good ones, or just skin it if your knife can even pierce its hide…what did it look like? Two jaws…”
Russell tried to describe it, but something with lots of teeth on all fours fit a lot of animals. The two jaws part got Oregg’s attention, though, and then Lenora raised a hand.
“Um—hey, would this help? It looked like this.”
She stuck out an arm, and the two hunters blinked. Russell recoiled as the same animal he’d had to shoot leapt out at him. Her skin! Right, she’d been drawing on…
“Drake’s Ancestors, what is that?”
Oregg’s exclamations drew a few other people over. They stared at Lenora’s drawing and began to confer.
“That’s no monster I’ve ever seen. Great, another threat to watch out for in the New Lands. Is this accurate, miss?”
“I’m an [Artist], and I drew it as close as I could, so…yes? It was about six feet long, I’d say four high?”
“Fantastic. How’d you kill it?”
“Lucky shot. It jumped us when we were sitting around the fire. I thought I sensed rustling, and it was moving in the grass.”
The others groaned, and then someone else put in with a familiar voice.
“That’s a new monster. I’ve never seen the like. Dawil! Have you ever seen this?”
The Gnoll, Labright, Nailren, or whatever his name was, had come over. His call brought the Dwarf, who stumped over, took one look at Lenora’s arm as the two Humans tried not to show how excited they were to get to talk to him, and shook his head.
“Nope. That’s a new monster. Wonderful. Why two jaws?”
“Maybe it’s just to bite things twice as fast?”
Nailren bared his teeth in a joke, but Dawil muttered.
“There’s always a reason. Doesn’t sound twice as smart if it jumped you lot, but maybe it can see in every direction or something? Those eyes…four of ‘em?”
“Yes, and they’re sort of green. It’s got a pale red-grey hide, like flesh, but it was filthy. And it had paws like a dog. Digitigrade.”
Lenora’s attention to visual detail was valuable, and Dawil’s eyes flickered to her.
“Paws like a dog…hold on. This is ringing a bell in my head. Maybe…what’s your name, Miss? Mine’s Dawil. Gold-rank adventurer with the Silver Swords.”
He held out a hand, and she shook it.
“I’m Lenora, this is Russell—”
“And I’m Honarai! You’re a Dwarf? Hello!”
She appeared as Dawil jumped. Honarai shook his hand excitedly, beating Russell to it. He eyed her hair and clothing.
“Where are you all from? Hey, Ylawes, get over here! Someone found another monster!”
He hollered, and Russell bit his lip, but Honarai answered for him.
“Oh, we’re all from different parts of Terandria. I’m from Pheislant, Lenora and Russell are from Ailendamus, Arnie’s from…well, actually I don’t know, and Chester’s Calanferian.”
“Quite the spread. I’m from Deríthal-Vel, myself. Have you ever been to Dwarfhome? You’ve never met my people abroad?”
“No, never! I hear it’s great, though. Big fan of Dwarves. I just, you know, never got out much.”
“I see. Well, Pheislant is on my list of places to go. Kingdom of Keys. Always wanted to visit.”
Dawil stroked his beard, and Honarai beamed at him.
“Hey, you come by and I’ll hand you one myself!”
It was Russell who noticed Oregg frown absently and a few of the other travellers blink. He felt like—no, the too-bland expression on Dawil’s face told him Honarai had just made a mistake. She realized it too and went on.
“Well…kingdoms, what do I know? I just live wherever. So what’s this about the monster that nearly ate us?”
Ylawes had walked over, and Dawil indicated Lenora’s arm. Actually, she’d found a piece of wood and, to everyone’s amazement, had already sketched the monster out so she didn’t have to keep holding her arm out.
“Amazing art.”
Nailren eyed the plank of wood—and Lenora’s pen—and Russell’s skin itched.
We have to get out of here. But…none of these people seemed hostile. It was just that they clearly understood Russell’s group was not who they said they were.
It was hard, actually, for Russell to look at the Dwarf, Human, and half-Elf and not hear the lines from that movie playing in his head, or to meet Ylawes Byres’ gaze as the man asked about the monster attack and think this fellow was a threat.
—Nailren Russell wasn’t sure about. However, Ylawes’ attention was drawn to the monster, and he disagreed with the others.
“That’s not a new monster. I think—I’m not positive, but I think that’s actually a Cericel.”
“What? Are you serious?”
Everyone was surprised by this, but Dawil nodded.
“The lad’s good with monsters, especially the ones his house hunts. That’s House Byres, by the way, one of the noble houses of Izril. The Five Families are the big ones; Terland, El, Reinhart, Veltras, Wellfar—you should know them and the six Walled Cities of the south, Miss. Important to get these details right when you’re in Izril.”
Now it sounded like he was giving Honarai advice. But Ylawes was muttering.
“I think…this is a Hound. There’s types of Cericel. What we killed was a ‘Maven’, which isn’t the same as a Scourgequeen. A Scourgequeen would be even deadlier, if not actually larger. There’s Fangbeasts…but they’re only in alpha-packs. I think this is a Hound, and if we killed a bunch of Stalkers, then it fits. It’s a small pack, and the Hound was scouting for prey last night.”
Russell’s skin crawled. So they’d missed the pack in the night. Oregg swore.
“Damn. How many packs might there be, Captain Ylawes?”
“Hard to say. Cericel spread fast, and they’re dangerous. I’d hope we killed the entire pack here, but…if you killed a Hound, sir, there’s a bounty on them. Only two silver, but Cericel are a public-menace monster, and you could swear on truth stones and be paid the bounty if we were at an Adventurer’s Guild.”
Ylawes addressed Russell, and the man smiled.
Truth spells. Great.
Dawil was nodding.
“Best if we all stay sharp. We staying here, lad? Might be good if everyone holds together. Are you heading east? It’s safer than the New Lands, especially if you lot just popped up.”
Honarai turned to Russell and Lenora.
“Oh, well, we’re exploring like everyone else. We might go back, but we don’t want to be quitters, right? Even if we’re out of gold.”
Ylawes and Dawil exchanged a look, and the Dwarf sighed.
“Well, if you need a hand, the lad here is going to insist…”
Russell had the feeling of the jaws of a trap closing, but he wasn’t sure if they were just being charitable. He hesitated, not sure what to say, and Honarai was doing the same when someone interrupted.
“Excuse me, actually, we have work. Russell! Hona, Lenora!”
Chester appeared with none other than Woll himself. He was smiling, and Russell turned as Dawil frowned.
“I’ve got a job for us for lodging for the night. And some food and coin.”
“Really?”
Russell was impressed right up until Woll nodded.
“This is your friend who can kill monsters?”
“Russell, yes. He can defend himself. Russell, Woll needs more people to stand watch. The rest of us get to lay stones.”
The [Candidate] seemed very pleased with himself, but Russell shot him an immediate glare. Stand watch with what? My rifle? But Woll was busy.
“I’d like more hands, yes, and anyone who can relieve pressure on my people while the Silver Swords are camped—go see the Drake up there, Rillemet. He’ll have you working.”
“Oh, yay. Laying bricks. Woo.”
Honarai pumped a fist into the air, but she didn’t seem that upset. Russell pulled Chester to the side.
“What the hell are you thinking?”
“I found us work. Russell, we need income.”
“I can hunt! What am I supposed to tell them when they ask me what I’m carrying?”
Chester gave Russell an impatient gaze.
“Just tell them it’s a weapon. You won’t have to use it unless there’s another monster. Russell, we have to engage with these people, not skulk around. Come on, we’re laying bricks. Teamwork, right?”
He patted Russell on the shoulder, and the [Gunslinger] took a breath. But they’d already agreed and he was conscious of the Silver Swords watching him, so he nodded and grabbed his pack.
 
——
 
Fortunately, the Drake told Russell he was going to be pulling the night shift, so it’d be dark when he had to stand watch.
“Look, just shout if you see anyone trying to sneak in or out. We told everyone inside—no leaving to use the privy. Woll’s orders. If you see a monster, scream. You won’t be the only one on the walls.”
The low dirt walls weren’t exactly impressive, but Russell nodded as he held his long rifle as covertly as he could. He didn’t see the Silver Swords below, but he cursed Chester—again. The Drake, Rillemet, did inspect the rifle with a frown.
“One thing—what’s that you’re carrying?”
“It’s…my weapon. It’s like a crossbow.”
“Huh. No design I’ve ever seen.”
“It’s from Terandria.”
Rillemet raised his brows. After Russell was not forthcoming, he nodded.
“I guess it’s new, or maybe they have a copy in Pallass or something? The City of Inventions makes stuff like that all the time.”
“Maybe.”
“Can I see it?”
“…Sure, but be careful. Don’t touch—anything.”
Russell held out the gun but didn’t let the Drake do more than touch it. Safety on or not, he jerked it back before the Drake could peer down the tube.
“It’s loaded.”
“Right. Oops. Well, as long as it shoots, just walk down the walls every now and then. No need to march. Here.”
He had a lantern, and Russell accepted it. He stood on the walls as the Drake walked down, and then he sighed. It was going to be a long night. Russell walked up and down the walls and distinctly heard Rillemet talking below.
“Yeah, the Human’s fine. Bit taciturn, and he’s got some weird crossbow weapon. I’m turning in. Tell Woll that the walls are gonna become mud unless we actually start making them out of stone. I’m surprised this entire place hasn’t rained away.”
Whatever someone else said to him was lost as Russell stared into the night. He was annoyed at Chester. Annoyed at Honarai getting them in trouble, even if she’d been trying. Lenora was fine. Arnie had muttered about ‘gathering intelligence’ before they’d began working.
If only I were by myself. Then he felt sure he could have gotten what he needed from Oregg, gone out, begun hunting, and come back and made enough coin to buy some supplies and keep going.
Instead, they might be found out already. True, not by evil people, but…
What will this lead to? Erin said that some people knew us. Enemies and allies.
He had three guns; the others were sleeping with his pack, which had the shotgun and his ammunition in there, and if he lost it, there was no replacing it in this world.
The most precious things, the only things that made him useful. Russell paced up and down the walls trying to think. Eastwards from here, but to where? Erin had said she had an inn where he’d be safe. This was Izril, but they were far from normal civilization.
Could you trust people you just met? A [Knight] had to be a man of honor, right? A Dwarf, a half-Elf, a Human.
Goblin and Antinium. Russell nearly ran into a Drake patrolling the other side of the wall, whirled on his heel, and walked back.
Monsters. There was something called a ‘Scourgequeen’? But he’d shot down a Maven; they’d been saying it had a bounty and that her hide might have been worth something if someone could process it.
Could I kill monsters? Like an adventurer?
He didn’t have enough ammunition. How to get more? Impossible. He could have hand-loaded the shells back home, but…maybe Arnie’s gunpowder was the best option.
Why bat guano for gunpowder?
…It was a long night. Russell only got relieved when the sun was rising, and he stumbled down the ramparts as a yawning Rillemet met him.
“Good work, er, Human. Dead gods, I told you that you didn’t need to pace!”
“I just felt like walking.”
“Well, I appreciate the energy. Get some sleep. Your group’s over there.”
Russell walked over and groaned.
They’d set up his tent in a corner of the keep. The tent, which was so visibly from Earth with its nylon fabric and unique design that—
He gave up. He was tired, and the fact that they were getting out of his bedroll meant he’d get that and the tent. He stumbled over, sleep-deprived, and Honarai offered him something.
“Hey, Russell! Good work! We get breakfast. Here, I got you this, and I could get you some tea later?”
She held out his tin cup filled with water. Russell took it, raised it to his mouth, then jerked the cup away.
“Hold it. Where is this from?”
He peered at her; they’d been drinking rainwater they’d had to collect in the tent tarp, but they’d been low on water before. She shook her head.
“Don’t worry, Woll said we could use the well. It’s over there, see?”
She jerked a thumb at a crude well and bucket someone was drawing water from already. Russell’s sleep-addled mind prompted him to take a sip of the water. But then he squinted.
“Did you boil it?”
“Boil it? It’s from the well.”
He dumped the water out of the cup instantly.
“I’ve got soap in my pack. Clean the cup, clean everything with boiled water, got it? Don’t drink anything from a well without boiling it, Honarai!”
He was tired and snapped at her, and she raised her hands.
“C’mon, Russell—”
Then she felt at her stomach.
“Ow, I’ve got cramps, actually. And Chester said his stomach hurt last night too.”
Russell stared at her, and his heart sank as he heard cursing from over to his right. He turned—and Dawil crawled out of his own tent.
“My insides! Dead gods, was it something I ate?”
Honarai stared at Rusell, then at Dawil, and the [Gunslinger] closed his eyes. Even Gold-rank adventurers? But in a world of magic and spells, he supposed…only Ylawes Byres, who cared about well sanitation, and the Gnoll, Nailren, made a point of boiling water.
Everyone else?
Well, half of them had all gotten what he was pretty sure was dysentery.
 
——
 
It was actually quite a problem. It was dangerous.
And gross, of course. Give credit where it was due: it was the young man, Russell, who went running towards Woll and delivered the news to the Drake the moment he realized what was going on.
To Woll’s credit, the Drake instantly shouted the news and issued a public apology; he hadn’t known. He was, of course, both embarrassed and in trouble with any group that had gotten sick, but the most embarrassed person was probably Dawil.
“I can’t believe I’ve got…whatever the hell it is! Like a rookie in front of the younger adventurers! I just—I remember Ylawes boiling water, but Falene took over once we hit Gold-rank and just hit our gear with [Cleanse] and cast [Purify Water] each time we camped!”
He’d taken the convenience of magic for granted. So had Woll; the Drake from Salazsar might be prepared in many ways, but he’d never had to worry about sanitation in his city.
The Dwarf was pale-faced, sweating, holding his cramping stomach, and he was one of at least a hundred struck down by the mass-dysentery. He lay there, curled up, until a shadow fell over him.
“Psst. Dawil. Whose magic is silly now? Hmm?”
He groaned up at the superior half-Elf who stood over him. However, after that, Falene just checked his temperature and cast a cooling spell on him, Insill, Dasha, and Infinitypear, who were all lying there.
It was a mark of how badly Dawil was feeling that Falene didn’t mock him that badly. Even Infinitypear had gotten sick.
“I just don’t understand. You drank water, Rasktooth.”
The Cave Goblin was patting his brother’s back.
“Yeah, but I grew up drinking dungeon water or insides of monsters.”
“…And?”
“You is stop brown streaming when you get, like, one year old. Or you get a Skill, [Greater Resistance: Filth] or something. Guess that one place where Cave Goblins beat even Antinium, eh, Brother?”
He cheerfully patted Infinitypear again, and the Worker rasped.
“I am not in a pat-pat happy mood, Brother. Stop patting my back shell, please.”
“Sorry. You need help to get to the poo spot again?”
The latrines were…crowded. A second one had been dug, but Falene grimaced.
“Bad sanitation causes this. Washing one’s hands with hot water and cleaning that well—essentials. I’ve agreed to keep teaching the ground-purification ritual and cast [Cleanse], but Woll may have to do more than rely on my magic. I’ll help Dasha use the privy with Pekona. Er, how bad is it this morning, Ylawes?”
He took a breath.
“It’s…well, I’d rather be cleaning up Creler guts, Falene. It is a smell and sight. Be careful where you step.”
She paled as Pekona finished putting a charm on Dasha’s chest. Ylawes heard loud cursing from the side and groaned.
Russell’s party of probably-Earthers, the Silver Swords, the colonists, and Cenidau’s warriors were all hit. Evor was swearing up a storm as Styrvi snapped into another tent.
“If you need to shit that badly, use your helmet! But don’t come to me to clean it! Argh, how are we not sick?”
She and Rigalde had drunk a lot of water from the well too; Cenidau’s wells were so cold apparently it wasn’t as much of an issue. Rigalde muttered.
“I handed you the cup. [Cleanly Hands].”
“Argh. What a time to be a [Maid]. Cleaning literal shit off of clothing!”
However, for all their ribbing and complaints, there was a sense of actual urgency amongst the healthy. Woll himself was speaking to a sleep-deprived Russell and Lenora, who were the only two standing.
“Let’s say it is this disease you know. Dysentery?”
“Could be cholera. Either way, it’s going to take days to clean up. And it means they need hydration. But it could get bad.”
“So, water, boiled water, understood. How bad is…bad?”
“They could die. Do healing potions work on diseases?”
Woll was glancing around at the people lying there or hobbling to the latrines. The horses were unhappy as the scent of manure was replaced by something a lot worse.
“No, that’d make it worse even if we had enough. How fatal is dysentery?”
Russell hesitated as Ylawes walked over with Rigalde. He glanced at them, and the [Knight] listened as the young man licked his lips.
“It killed more people than anything else on the—during a famous incident back home. I don’t know how to treat dysentery. It’s a threat where I come from—lots of idiots will drink water without purifying it first, but I’ve never had to treat anyone. They need rest, lots of fluids, and medicine.”
“Medicine. Like for the Yellow Rivers disease. Could Goisedall have any…?”
“It’s not a common issue. Drakes have good well sanitation, so the [Healers] might not carry any.”
Especially if this is an Earth illness. Ylawes bit his lip, and Woll sighed.
“We need a [Healer]. A good one, right now. Miss Falene has sent word to the local Drake cities, and I will seek out every caravan passing by here, but I confess, I am ashamed, Captain Ylawes. Salii would never have made this mistake.”
He hung his head, and Ylawes had to ask.
“Could it be we’re wrong, Woll, Russell? I know this all seems to point to the well, but a good adventurer double-checks things. Woll, you’ve been here longest. How have you not gotten sick, or most of your crew?”
For answer, Woll pointed glumly at someone going around.
“I suppose it was just luck. And the rains—it gave us so much water we weren’t using the well nearly as much until just now. As for how I didn’t get sick of late…tea, Captain Byres. Tea. Once we got it, I’ve not had a drop of water, just tea, and of course one boils the water before drinking…we might have saved many people from the tea and failed to notice the well as a result. I’d toss an entire crate down the well if that sanitized it. That doesn’t work, does it?”
He turned to Russell, and the young man shook his head. Ylawes felt at his side.
“I could offer you some powdered silver…”
“Does that stop dysentery?”
“No, it’s a family custom, but it might help?”
Woll shook his head after hesitating for a minute, and Russell eyed Ylawes.
“Best not to toss anything else down there. It’s going to be a long, filthy day, gentlemen. Mister Russell, sleep. Miss Lenora? I will hire you to write up Miss Falene’s news about the purification of the ground on our billboard, something eye-catching, as well as an advisory about this sanitation issue. Then, all hands are going to be digging a new well and more latrines. Captain Byres, I’d gladly pay for help too.”
So that was how Ylawes made a living for a bit. Digging holes for people to poo into. All things considered…he’d rather have been marching. Still, it let him keep an eye on Russell. Dawil’s test of Honarai had proven they were lying about where they were from, but how else to tell for sure if they were Earthers?
I could just ask. But Russell seemed wary. So, Ylawes Byres tried to think of the most Earth-like thing from Erin Solstice he could imagine. He thought and thought and finally had it after helping Dawil to and from the horrible latrines.
“You need anything else, Dawil?”
“Just some more good water and rest, lad. I’ll be hungry in a bit. Sorry.”
Dawil lay down with a groan, and Ylawes saw Chester wobbling back over to some blankets Woll had given them; Arnie was wrapped up in the sleeping bag, and Honarai was in the tent. He paused, then raised his voice.
“You know what? I really miss food from home—I mean, Liscor, Dawil. I could really go for a cheeseburger right about now. And a milkshake.”
He’d never actually had a milkshake, but it was something he’d heard Erin and other Earthers say longingly. Ylawes watched as, out of the corner of his eye, Arnie’s head poked out of his sleeping bag. Chester halted dead in his tracks, and Honarai rustled around in the tent and went still. Dawil stared up at Ylawes with one bloodshot eye.
“Congratulations, lad. Now, would you mind tying the tent up? I’m gonna try and sleep.”
Well, it was something to Ylawes at least. He wondered what to do about it.
 
——
 
They knew. Russell stood on the walls, gazing down at the Silver Swords, and he held a long tube wrapped in a bit of cloth he’d traded for.
A rifle. He gazed down at the [Knight] who was made of stories. A good man.
That’s what he’d heard people saying. The Silver Swords. Ylawes of House Byres, like he was someone they were familiar with.
He seemed honest, brave, and he knew.
Russell held the rifle like a spear, but the wrong way around. Such that he would let it slide down his grip, find the trigger on the inside, raise it, click the safety off, and fire.
He could do it in one motion. If he needed to, he could aim and fire, and even distant as he was—the [Knight] was so close within the range of a rifle.
He had a helmet, but not on now. His blonde hair…Russell was sweating. He did not want to shoot this man.
But be careful. That was what Erin Solstice had warned him. He had firearms. He did not know who to trust.
Shift the cloth. Aim, fire. He would hit the man through the head. Russell would have to take out his entire team. He could do it; they were close together, and he could reload the bolt-action faster than anyone guessed. Let alone if he went for his revolver.
He had not killed anyone in this or any other world. But they could not have his weapons. She had come to him, that [Innkeeper], to warn him. To tell him…
The [Gunslinger] thought he understood this world. He thought he treated it with the gravity that Honarai, Arnie, even Chester and Lenora lacked. But he was still new. Still young.
He could see, as he thought of how to kill Ylawes Byres, the man stop grinning at Dawil and freeze. Put a hand on the back of his neck as if he’d felt a sudden chill. Ylawes Byres’ head turned right and left, and Russell pretended to keep sauntering down the wall.
He didn’t see Insill glance up and poke his teammates or Infinitypear bolt upright in his Sleepingbag of Fluff and nudge Rasktooth. The Silver Swords all woke up, from Dawil who cracked one eye open and shifted, so a little leather holster was exposed, to Falene, who whispered words of magic.
And Russell noticed the sudden moment of tension, but he did not know why because he was new here.
[Dangersense].
Ylawes Byres was casually walking up the walls as Chester halted, unsure if he should stop the man. But Woll trusted him, so no one even glanced twice as the [Knight] studied the battlements and did a slow three hundred and sixty degree turn.
He frowned, scratched at his head, and then glanced at Russell. He smiled, lifted one hand, and Russell faked a smile too.
How do you know what a cheeseburger is? A milkshake? I could believe one or the other. But not both.
Were there people from Earth, Earthers, in the open? Erin hadn’t indicated that. She’d said they’d come for her. This good and honest man…
Have you killed them? Do you know them? You know us. What is going to happen?
Swing up and fire. Just a thought. Russell did not want to murder anyone, but—he had killed the Maven. She had been huge, a screaming monster of pallid flesh and teeth, but she had been the most humanoid, intelligent thing he had ever slain.
He remembered shooting the grizzly bear dead and, in the following silence, sitting and thinking what a waste it was. That infinite regret when he saw how magnificent the great beast had been, and the certain knowledge he had done the right thing.
But that man…frowned, just once. Put a hand to the back of his neck. Rubbed at one ear. Then came striding down the walkway.
“Russell, right? I hope I’m not disturbing you.”
“Not at all, sir.”
Russell smiled, as untensed as he could be. Ylawes Byres just glanced down at his teammates, who were peering up at him, and lifted a hand.
 
——
 
He smiled, and Rasktooth stared up at his Captain with huge, glowing eyes.
Monster. He met Russell’s gaze for a moment, and they locked eyes. Goblin and Human. Rasktooth frowned, because there was no hatred in Russell’s eyes. Yet when the young man glanced at Ylawes…
Anith sat up, exposing the black fur on his chest. Insill had grabbed his foot. Dawil got up, yawning, reaching for a water flask. And Falene just sat.
“Dawil.”
“I know, Falene. Let him do his thing.”
They sat as the [Dangersense] shrilled again in Insill’s and Infinitypear’s ears. Louder now. Not the faint alarm.
And they knew the Silver Knight heard it too, but Ylawes just held out a hand after tugging his gauntlet off.
 
——
 
“I fear I haven’t introduced myself fully. Ylawes Byres, Captain of the Silver Swords. I know we’ve met, but I never had the chance for a word.”
He could grab Russell’s gun—the [Gunslinger] hesitated, but he had to do something. So he switched the covered gun to his other hand, held out a hand.
Revolver then. Ylawes’ eyes flickered, and Russell picked up on the little movement.
Why?
Why had he come up the stairs? Why was he…? Russell heard Ylawes clear his throat.
“Your group’s fascinating, if you don’t mind me saying so, Mister Russell. Not many people have done well in the New Lands, even my team, and we are adventurers. To survive so far in without much in the way of supplies or rations—”
He was a clever man. Just like anyone from home. Russell bared his teeth.
“We lost all our gear. And our friends.”
It was a good lie. Chester’s lie. Just don’t ask who or where or what. Ylawes nodded.
“Of course. I’m sorry, that’s insensitive.”
“No, I understand. You’ve been through it as well.”
“We have. My people, my team, have been led astray by my indecisiveness and foolishness. But they persevered through it all. They humble me, from Rasktooth to Anith. Thank you for not treating Rasktooth unkindly, or Infinitypear, by the way. So few would give them a chance.”
God. He was so earnest. Russell glanced down at the Silver Swords, then at the darkening landscape. He felt the revolver taped to his chest, skin tearing with the adhesive, and knew he’d rip off his epidermis, but he could draw it. He stepped back, staring out across the landscape.
“I guess we’re just a bit more open-minded than most. Sorry, I have to stand watch.”
“Of course. It’s just that a Goblin and Antinium are not welcome in any corner of the world. There are few people who’d tolerate them…anywhere. Just so you know.”
Was that a hint? A warning? Russell’s skin was freezing. His heart was beating too fast. Don’t do this. Don’t—he looked Ylawes in the eyes.
“Look, we’re just trying to get to safety.”
“I understand. I’m…I’d just like to talk.”
“Well, now’s not a good time.”
Leave. The [Knight] heaved a huge breath. He stood, folding his arms, gazing across the dark, beautiful world Russell had yet to explore, and the young man imagined finding that safety Erin had promised. Dropping off his companions, then coming back here to explore.
“This New Land is a beautiful place. It makes me feel like the world is an adventure again, as if I were a boy.”
“Truly spoken, sir.”
“I just wish I weren’t endangering anyone else. That it wasn’t so hard at times. I just want to have…an adventure. But I also want these young rookies to level with me. I want to see them become something amazing. I can’t have it both ways. Or even one way. But I want to do right by people. That’s all. I…like to see people smile.”
Russell could not meet Ylawes’ earnest eyes as the [Knight] turned to him. Ylawes went on.
“I’ve changed a lot.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes. I didn’t think I would. I thought I was on the Right Path, where honor, nobility, and courage gave me everything I needed. Then…my sister showed me up.”
Ylawes frowned. He felt at his mis-fitting armor, at the stubble on his chin. Russell glanced at him.
“You have a sister?”
“Yvlon Byres. She’s famous. Almost Named-rank. She passed me, and I was jealous. I didn’t…think I was. But I suppose I felt annoyed. Why wasn’t it me? She’s younger than me. I always knew I was better than her at most things. But she…she’s braver. I think she is. She took more risks. Lost more. And rose higher. I never really talked to anyone about how I felt about this.”
Why was he telling Russell this? The young man felt compelled to say something, anything.
“I never had siblings. I grew up by myself. My dad wasn’t really in my life much after I got through high…education. I know how it feels to be jealous of people.”
This world was his chance. But Honarai and Chester were more important here. And Lenora made beautiful art. He was just a [Hunter]. The guns made him special.
But Ylawes was glancing at the covered gun, now, and speaking.
“It’s difficult for so many, I agree. And I think…I haven’t had it that difficult. I’m a nobleman. Falene and Dawil joke about it sometimes, but I didn’t know what that meant until I really looked at someone who wasn’t born with my wealth and advantages. In the New Lands, everyone’s equal. It must be hard, though. For you.”
“Me? I’ve been hunting all my life.”
Russell was faintly insulted by this, but Ylawes nodded down at his camp.
“Your friends haven’t.”
“You can tell?”
“It’s a bit—obvious. They’re new. So are you, aren’t you?”
Russell said nothing, but once more, Ylawes twitched, and the [Gunslinger] noticed it and the two simultaneous movements below.
They can tell I’m thinking of…and then a dark pit opened in his stomach as his fears became a reality. But Ylawes’ voice was controlled.
“You learn to tell. It’s a strange thing, Russell. Those Cericel the other day…”
“Strange how that happened. Sometimes, things happen, and it’s best not to ask questions.”
“True. But the Silver Swords ask all the questions. We’re not very smart—well, Falene is and Dawil is, but not me—and we’re nosy. We try to help. And if you were in need—”
“We’re not. Sometimes, you should leave well enough alone, sir.”
Russell’s voice was louder now, and he stood, hands on the stock of the rifle aimed down at his feet. Ylawes peered at him, and the wind blew the [Knight]’s fair hair.
But he was a brave man. He didn’t back away from whatever he was being told.
“Russell. I think I know your people. I think I know you.”
“I think you’re mistaken. I think it’d be a bad idea to bring anything up.”
Russell was sweating. Ylawes knew. So he had two options. Trust this man or don’t. But how could he trust…?
He was everything that looked like a hero from stories in Russell’s mind. But Russell had been warned. He backed up, and Ylawes took a step forwards.
“Russell…”
“I’m warning you, Ylawes. Don’t.”
Just back up. Back up and he’d get everyone to leave camp in a moment. Just run for it. Ylawes stood there, and below, someone called up.
“Hey, Captain.”
Ylawes never moved his eyes off the [Gunslinger].
“Leave it, Insill. Russell, you might be new here.”
“I learn quickly.”
“Yes, but…in case you didn’t know, there’s a common Skill some people gain. It’s called [Dangersense]. It’s not very reliable, but plenty of people have it.”
Russell squeezed his eyes shut. Then opened them, and sweat beaded his brows in the spring heat.
“I—I see.”
“I’ve learned not to rely on it. But I do listen. Russell…”
“I don’t know what you want, Ylawes. But I don’t trust you. You seem like a good man, so drop it. Please?”
Russell was begging Ylawes. His arms were shaking with adrenaline. Lift and fire. Lift and—
He was panicking, he realized. Panicking in a way he’d never felt when face-to-face with an animal. But a person? He didn’t know what to do, but he was ready. Ready—for what?
Russell was afraid.
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres stood there.
“I see. It’s hard to trust someone. I understand. But Russell. You’re not alone.”
The young man jerked. His eyes found Ylawes, and they were like a piercing gaze of their own. The silver knight had scarcely seen eyes as focused as Russell’s. They reminded him of Halrac.
With a voice filled with calm, and the only thing he had: trust, Ylawes raised his hands.
“I’ll leave you alone, Russell. I swear. We don’t mean any harm by it.”
“Good. Thank you. That’s all.”
Russell backed away down the battlements, still holding that weapon that made Ylawes certain Russell could kill him. Death sang in his ears.
Yet Ylawes just stared at Russell, and, on the ledge of the battlements, hanging off a protruding piece of stone, he could see a black-haired woman with a sword. Pekona. She was waiting.
He hoped Russell didn’t glance down and to the side. But Ylawes met Russell’s eyes again and saw the panic, fear, and wondered…if this was what it had been like for the others.
Erin. Ryoka. Kevin. Imani, and so many more. He turned and gazed back east. Towards where he wanted to be. And north.
“The High Passes lie to the north, Russell. It’s a long way to Human lands. Not that the Drakes are always…terrible. But they can be difficult.”
Ylawes swallowed hard. Russell said nothing. Ylawes stepped back. That felt safer, but his [Dangersense] still sounded in his ears, a long siren.
“If you go east, you’ll find Goisedall or another city. Then you can follow the trade roads north. Do you have any coins?”
“We don’t need help. Thank you. We’ll find our own way.”
Russell’s voice made it sound like he might go any direction but what Ylawes suggested. The [Knight] heaved a breath. One last try.
“Russell—I’m not going to follow you or give you instructions. Just a suggestion. If you keep going north, there is only one safe route through the High Passes until Magnolia Reinhart builds her wall. You must pass by the Bloodfields, which are dangerous at this time of year, but a road has been built. In the shadow of the High Passes, there is a single place. A city. It won’t be flooded by the time you get there. It is the City of Liscor, and it divides north and south Izril. The only place where the Antinium, the Black Tide of Izril, have made a Hive amongst other people.”
Russell drank in Ylawes’ words like some kind of prophecy, eyes focused on Ylawes’ face. So hungry. So afraid. Ylawes saw his finger twitching and spoke.
“If you go there, stop a while. I won’t tell them to expect you—”
Death. He paused, and below him, his team tensed, but Ylawes just met Russell’s eyes. He would say it. Say it, because he had to give the young man the chance he deserved. If it meant his life…Ylawes didn’t want to die.
“There is a building far away from the City of Liscor, which is relatively safe, even if plagued by monster attacks. It is a famous building, and I wouldn’t walk there; monsters infest the rolling Floodplains, and they are dangerous, even for me. Hidden Shield Spider nests, though I have been told they have decreased in number, Rock Crabs…”
“I get it. What’s there? I suppose I should know all of this?”
Ylawes shook his head, meeting the hostile glare.
“No. Not everyone would know this place. It is a strange building. An inn.”
Russell went still. And Ylawes could no longer read his face, but the [Knight] spoke on over the pounding of his heart.
“It’s perhaps the strangest place in Izril. It’s called The Wandering Inn. Inside, you’ll find the hated Goblins, feared Antinium, and more. It’s not always safe, but there is a wonderful [Innkeeper] who runs the place. She’s…absent. For a while. And the inn is often hated or distrusted, but it is a place where great and wonderful things come from. And tragedy. I will not tell you to go there. But if you should ever travel north…it has rooms for very reasonable rates, and good food. Familiar food, I think, to you. If you are good of heart, you will find friends there. Tell them I sent you. That’s all I wanted to say. You don’t have to do any of it.”
Ylawes turned on his heel. He began walking down the battlements, nerves alert, waiting for…death. But he realized, after a few steps, that he no longer heard that alarm. No longer felt his skin crawling.
In the silence, Russell T. Morgan spoke.
“Wait. Please.”
Ylawes halted and turned. He saw Russell lower the strange cloth object that couldn’t be a spear, resting it on the ground. He flicked something. Then gazed at it and put it on the edge of the battlements next to him. He stood there. When he turned to Ylawes…the [Knight] knew.
“That inn. What’s…what’s the name of the [Innkeeper]? The important one? She’s important, right?”
“She’s the most important [Innkeeper] in this or any other world. I like to think she’s a friend of mine. But I think I’m just one of her many guests. Someday…I’d like to repay what I owe her.”
“What did she do for you?”
Russell took a step forwards, and a lantern illuminated his face, now. He was so young. Wary, nervous, afraid…but Ylawes met his eyes and smiled.
“She broke down what I believed about monsters and the world. Gave me real monsters to fight. Made my sister a hero and left me behind. She served me drinks and food. I never would have become a Named-rank adventurer before. Just a good, honest Gold-ranker half-blind to the world. Now…”
He craned his neck back and gazed at the stars. Then he held out a hand.
“Her name is Erin Solstice. And I think she’d want to meet you, Russell.”
The young [Gunslinger] peered at Ylawes’ hand, then his face. He stood there, caught in indecision, before he exhaled. It felt to Ylawes like all the tension, the burdens Russell had put on his own shoulders, his expectations, and the ones someone else had put on him, lifted a second. He took Ylawes’ hand and squeezed hard. And all Russell said was this:
“I dunno if I’m that likeable or important. But she…I’m on her side. Can you tell me more?”
Ylawes Byres smiled. When he did, he shone so bright that Russell wiped at his eyes just once. Then let the [Knight] introduce him to his team.
Sometimes, Russell realized, the things you read in stories weren’t all dreams. He relaxed, and for the first moment since he’d met Erin, he stopped worrying about his guns. Then he sat for a while, apologizing, and basked in the stories they told him. And swore he’d see it for himself.
To brave a world’s danger and chase the trail an [Innkeeper] had forged. To race across the wilds and find the heart of stories promised to him. And someday, to walk home and tell them of the lands yet untamed. And the friends he had made on the long journey in this world of wonders.
 
[Gunslinger Level 16!]

Interlude - Liska (2026-05-09)

ʟɪꜱᴋᴀ ᴛᴏᴏᴋ ᴀ ᴅᴀʏ ᴏꜰꜰ.
As one did. There she was, complaining on her couch as normal. People streamed into the portal room of the inn, heading to multiple destinations these days.
Liscor, Esthelm, Celum, Pallass, Invrisil, Riverfarm, that place north of Invrisil that Ilvriss wanted—you know, places. And Liska was talking nonstop as she herded them into their doors. Well, complaining really.
“I’m just so tired all the time, y’know? I wake up? Tired. I clock into work at, like, 7 AM and I’m tired. I need a break!”
Asgra stopped mopping the floors and gave Liska a look. The Cave Goblin had been up at 3 AM. The night shift ended around then and you got to spend the morning tidying up or just keeping an eye out. However, despite the platter of snacks in front of Liska, she did appear…tired.
Not physically, but she was all slumped, like someone had added a few bones to a fur slime. Asgra shrugged.
“You is paid, none of us dead. That good by Goblin standards.”
Although…that was a tired line she used to motivate herself when, in fact, Asgra sometimes wanted a bit more time off to go into Liscor with, more days off, or to just go visit Goblinhome and meet some nice Goblin…
She got worried because she felt like she was getting weak. No longer as used to hardship as her old, Cave Goblin self. But she reasoned she was still okay because Liska was alive, and it was hard to be less tough than Liska.
“I dunno, Asgra. I’m just so sleepy…”
Liska had the misfortune of yawning when someone came in for an inspection. Namely, the Demon Queen, the Mistress of Woes, the Chairbreaker, Lyonette du Marquin. The inn’s staff liked coming up with names for the [Princess]. The Rheirgest [Necromancers] also loved joining in. Actually, they took it a bit more seriously than the inn’s staff…Asgra had heard someone had made a shrine to Lyonette in Rheirgest, and there’d been talk of commissioning a portrait of her. Not for any religious reasons, but because it would really be ‘dark tyrant decor’ that would improve any area it was put in.
It came to something when regular Humans could outdo even Gothica. Well, Lyonette heard Liska and saw the full-slump Gnoll with her feet up on a cushion and put her hands on her hips.
“Liska, is this how you’re serving our guests?”
“Uh oh, the fuzz.”
Asgra began mopping furiously as Liska sat up.
“Er, Lyonette, I was just, um—”
Lyonette had this friendly-pushy way about her. She came over, eying the charcuterie snack tray that Liska got each brunch. You know, just your regular platter of meat, cheeses, silkap, fresh bread, flatbread, dips—Calescent liked to put on vegetables too. Roasted bell peppers, celery, just enough that Liska would eat the good stuff first, then notice she had some dip left and snack down on the rest.
He was probably the one reason she wasn’t overweight given her sedentary lifestyle. That and the fact that Liska was young. Eighteen this year. Lyonette would be turning twenty, but the difference between them? Liska shrank back as Lyonette smiled at her with that patient, pushing attitude.
“If you’re tired, Liska, that’s understandable, but we must be professional on duty. I’m sure you understand? When did you last take a vacation day? If you can put in some effort today, I’ll make sure you’re on vacation as soon as you’re allowed, deal?”
Here it came. Both Asgra and Liska groaned as the latter sat up and the former began to actually check her mopping, moving in deliberate patterns and cleaning all the cracks just like she’d been taught.
[Flurry of Efficiency]! Lyonette’s [Princess] class had a few Skills that helped with the inn and they were powerful. Her people would put out stellar results—but they didn’t have to like it.
“Sorry, Lyonette. I’m doing my job! It’s just—y’know—I haven’t had a day off in like…”
Liska began counting on her fingers as Asgra began mopping near a line of people. Drakes from Pallass waiting to be sent off. Mostly to Invrisil or Liscor. One turned to look at her.
“Is that a—?”
Before they could express some old-fashioned Goblin racism, they hesitated, glanced around at the silent, bored people in line, and Asgra’s Skill activated.
“[Hey, I Just Work Here].”
The Pallassian Drake dropped it. Because…they really didn’t want to cause a scene. Asgra’s Skill was probably why no one had tried to attack her for, well, being Asgra.
Liska had no such protections. She shrank under Lyonette’s friendly gaze.
“When was your last break, Liska?”
“Um…I dunno. When did I last take one?”
That drew Lyonette up. And she hesitated. A few people were following Lyonette around; they always did. The Calanferian staff, Ushar…Lyonette turned to Ushar.
“Ushar, when did Liska take a break last?”
“Er, it would have been before the Goblin King, Your Highness. When would she have taken it? Not since before the Winter Solstice…”
“Wait. Liska works each day of the week. She has to in order to run the [Door of Portals]. She hasn’t taken off a single day since then?”
Liska was sitting up on her couch, calling out.
“Everyone to Liscor? Door opening in three, two, one…all travellers wait for people to exit! [Form a Line]! Thank you. Oh, yeah, I haven’t taken a break since then, huh?”
Lyonette was growing increasingly anxious but trying to downplay the issue as the employer who realized she was in the wrong often became.
“Let’s see. Liska had to have been taking a break before—no…”
Here was the thing. Liska had to have taken a break because she was, well, Liska! Lazy! Complained all the time! Didn’t do anything but the door!
But she did manage the door, and she had to because she’d pretty much taken it over. So when had she last taken a break?
No one could remember, and so someone was called for. Ishkr.
Ishkr took breaks. Not often, and he was the inn’s 2nd-in-command, the fearless leader who managed the disparate groups, hero of cleaning and crowd control. When he came into the Portal Room, his first reflex was to scowl at Liska and assume she’d done something wrong. But when asked…he hesitated.
“Liska? She takes breaks all the time. Her lunch breaks are far too long. And she clocks out too early.”
“Are not! I work hard here, Ishkr!”
Liska shouted. Her older brother, who spent most of the day on his feet, gave her a flat look she couldn’t quite meet. But he had to admit, he didn’t recall her taking any days off this month. Or last month.
“I—well—this is distressing! Liska, you have time off!”
“Yeah, but I just didn’t know when to use it. And then we were busy after the Goblin King thing and…I know I took days off earlier on. I guess I just forgot to later.”
Liska was embarrassed, now, scratching her head. A few people in line were turning to stare as they heard the ‘Goblin King’ being referenced as a casual marker of time. Lyonette shook her head.
“Well, there’s nothing to it. Liska! Take tomorrow off. You might as well take longer, but at least tomorrow! Schedule your days off, and we’ll figure out how much you’re owed…and please, I know you’re tired, but a bit of effort?”
She smiled, and Asgra and Liska nodded and pretended to be busy. Ishkr flicked two fingers at his eyes and at Liska. I’m watching you; stop causing trouble.
Liska’s roll of the eyes and middle finger was her reply. Eat shit older brother.
But like that, it was arranged. Liska was on break the next day, possibly for longer. Lyonette decided she’d have Xinthe and two Calanferians take over the [Door of Portals] for the day. They were solid, hard-working, and the least ‘controversial’ members of staff. That would train them up for Liska taking more breaks and maybe allow for backups if Liska was sick or lazy. She was, after all, sort of a legacy hire since Ishkr worked here. They couldn’t just fire her, but sometimes, Liska did fail to pull any weight.
That was that. A day passed. The inn didn’t explode. Yelroan, who managed the staff roster, processed Liska’s day off and handed her some money she was due so she could spend it early. She nodded at him, then ambled back to the apartment she and Ishkr shared; he had already teleported in and was asleep. She lay down and realized she could sleep in because tomorrow was her day off. That was the most Liska or anyone thought about the matter.
The consequences were not apparent till the next day.
 
——
 
Liska was a Level 32 [Portal Guardian] with a class consolidation. Xinthe was a Level 24 [Clandestine Servant] with other, lower-level spy classes.
They were not the same. Nor did Liska leave any documentation about her workflow—nor did anyone ask, because, well, it was Liska. Managing a portal-door.
How hard could it be?
Within the hour, Xinthe, who was capable, eager to impress, and smart enough to realize when she had a problem, especially in this unique work environment, had documented a few issues with replacing Liska so suddenly:
 
Item 1. [Door of Portals] cannot be changed remotely; requires someone constantly to be at the door to manipulate the dial.
Item 2. People waiting to be transported do not form into lines; no such system is in place. They must be manually directed or a Skill used or chaos ensues.
Item 3. Door schedule is not written down. Each group expects prompt checking every ten minutes. Requiring constant cycling.
Item 4. Proper passports and documentation for each city are not guaranteed by checkpoints on other ends of the door. Leading to returned visitors and refunds.
Item 5. Visitors seem to be consuming more mana than door can hold in huge bursts. Door failure leads to waiting periods to recharge after 400 passengers; can hit this within the first hour.
Item 6. Rain or other dirt tracked in rapidly turns waiting room into a sty. How did Liska keep this clean???
Item 7. Everyone is asking too many questions, and we are getting behind on help. Some people just try to walk through any door they want. High levels just ignore all the rules and don’t want to pay.
Item 8. I hate it here. I hate people.
 
One hour. Lyonette wasn’t even up. The Portal Room was a mess due to the rain in multiple cities leading to mud being tracked in. People were slipping, forming into queues for the wrong city, arguing, pushing, and the [Door of Portals] had run out of mana already and needed a recharge.
Hilariously unfortunate for Xinthe and the staff being called in to help. A model of why a high-level individual who knew her job was essential. Little more than that, you’d say, right?
Wrong.
 
——
 
The day-workers in Liscor, Pallass, and Invrisil were late to their jobs. Day-workers, a concept largely invented via The Wandering Inn.
With the [Door of Portals], someone in Esthelm could wake up in their home city, have a hot breakfast, walk over to the door, wait for ten minutes, then be in another city and walking to work with such minimal loss of time that they were actually faster than someone who lived across the city from work.
Oh, it was not always ideal; the cost of using the door and wait times were a consideration, but Liscor and other cities had negotiated for bulk-discounts on such workers, and the inn offered monthly or even yearly passes.
Liska knew most of these people by name, and she could tell when someone was faking such a pass because she had [Filtered Entry]. They knew the system well enough to time their arrival so that they wouldn’t be late to work…under the Liska system.
When they were an hour late, most of the employers raised hell about their lazy workers calling off without being sick. The conscientious ones checked to see if there was an accident or holdup on the streets; they quickly realized there was a commonality between the workers not arriving.
As the few people who’d fought through the deadlock at the inn began to arrive, complaints were issued to the Watch, who in turn issued the complaints to The Wandering Inn. The Watch of each city were told they could shove those complaints back up their own asses—there was an issue with the portal door. Get lost.
The Watch turned around to complain back to their Watch Captains, who brought it up with civic leaders. The civic leaders put it down to ‘that damn inn’ until someone, a Merchant’s Guild representative, brought up how many day-workers weren’t going to work.
As in…there were jobs in the city that should have been filled by day-workers that didn’t have anyone overseeing them because they were so reliable.
The [Butcher] of Hoss’ Meats was still waiting in Esthelm to get to work. Half of the builders of a construction team for Liscor’s 3rd District weren’t there. Five separate [Enchanters] working for Pallass hadn’t made it out of Invrisil.
And that wasn’t counting regular foot traffic, people transporting items, important business deals or people who’d arranged to be in another city tomorrow. All of it, all of it, frozen.
At first, people blamed the inn or suspected an Ancient Creler had emerged beneath it or something like that. But when they realized Liska wasn’t there—a fact that the checkpoints on the other sides of the door had already picked up on—the tenor of the conversation changed.
For, you see, it became less about ‘that damn inn causing trouble again’ and more about ‘hey, what if this service we have taken for granted disappears or stops working as well’?
And that? That was gold. That provoked a response.
 
——
 
There was a rhythm to the dynamics of power that one could trace. Not in such prosaic terms as net profitability or income per capita between cities, but in more esoteric means.
For instance, between Liscor and Pallass, there had always been…bribes. Not that anyone called them that. They had been gifts. A basket of cookies here, a free hamburger there.
8th Floor, Pallass. The checkpoint that Captain Kel oversaw had changed from a single-squad operation to a full building that processed hundreds or even thousands over the course of a day. It was practically a second Watch House for the 8th floor, and it had gone from a miserable post with some Human that caused trouble to a place that had, well, perks.
And one of the perks had been, according to the old veterans, free cookies. That darn [Innkeeper] would come by with some posters to plaster on the walls, or with a favor to ask, and you’d have to chew your tail and deal with her. But…she left gifts.
Such as food, which she regularly fed the checkpoint [Guards]. For all they had complained, more than one had come away with a bag of cookies, gratis, or went through the door to buy some hot food, cheap and discounted, and considered it, well, a perk for having to deal with her.
Such was the currency Erin Solstice had greased the wheels of Pallass with. When she had died, when she had gone off to fight wars and left her inn, the free food had stopped—but by that point, the 8th Floor Door Checkpoint had hawkers waiting for people to come through, a lounge area for important guests to wait for the ten minute window, and the [Guards] got other perks of the job like any contraband they confiscated from people going through the checkpoints. It hadn’t been the same, but some of them, especially Kel, had missed the days when he could get a free cup of tea, a snack, and chat when Erin Solstice was around.
Of course, he denied that vehemently when anyone brought it up. Yet those days? They’d come again. Just not as you expected.
 
——
 
“Hello, Miss Lyonette!”
“I’m terribly sorry, Watch Captain. But the door’s having issues; our regular [Doorgnoll] is out on leave, and we have some delays.”
Lyonette du Marquin recognized Watch Captain Qissa coming through the door and instantly apologized, but the Watch Captain, a female Drake, had a strained smile on her face.
And—a basket of goodies, including snacks, a cold-potion tonic, bath soaps, scented candles, and a second basket filled with Liska’s favorite snacks from the hawkers outside. Qissa hadn’t even had to pay for the second basket; the hawkers had tossed it in, gratis.
“Not at all, Miss Solstice! Not at all! This is just a gift in recognition of The Wandering Inn’s hard work. And, uh, how is Miss Liska? Not sick, I hope? We have [Healers]…I could see if Healer Demerra is free.”
Lyonette blinked as she tried to accept the basket; Xinthe and another member of staff rushed over to take them from the fragile [Princess]. Behind Lyonette, there were no less than eighteen employees trying to organize guests, clean, and recharge the door all at once.
“Healer…Demerra? I wouldn’t want to bother such an important Gnoll. Liska’s just having a day off.”
“Ah. Er, of course. Common, are they?”
“Well, as common as anyone taking a day off, Watch Captain.”
Qissa was no idiot. She’d been through this door before, and she’d heard about Liska from her reports. She and Lyonette both glanced at the empty couch where Liska was normally lying about. Neither one wanted to say it, but Qissa had her orders, and Lyonette had a problem. They smiled toothily.
“Well, I’m sure a day off is understandable. Er, one. How many days off does she have banked?”
“Er…quite a lot.”
Lyonette replied slowly. Qissa’s eyes shifted to the door, which changed to Esthelm. Instantly, half the crowd surged forwards, even if it was the wrong location, and the other people tried to run through. The door went dead, and Peggy threw up her hands. Qissa licked her lips.
“I see. Well, I’d just like Liska to know we in Pallass miss her, and we have some coupons for after she finishes work, you know? Shops, the bathhouses?”
Qissa edged back towards Pallass’ door with a note to say they needed a third gift basket to remind Liska why she loved her work. Only to realize…she was stuck here. Qissa stared as Asgra slapped some magicore on the side of the door and watched the runny, magical stone oozing down the side. Asgra turned.
“Hey! Where Liska? This not working, Lyonette!”
The [Princess]’ mouth was pressed shut, and she peered around for Ishkr. He was just standing there, and he glanced at Lyonette and shared a thought with her.
Liska was essential. More than anyone realized.
But they’d be damned if they wanted Liska to know that. It was so—well—when you thought about it, she had faced the Goblin King herself. She hadn’t been here as long as Ishkr, but she’d worked as hard as he did. They were related.
Yet surely—
If they just improved their processes—
“We’re late for work! Get that Gnoll back, you idiots!”
Someone screamed at Lyonette the moment the [Door of Portals] reactivated, and Lyonette recoiled. Ishkr began trying to take charge, and Lyonette raised her hands, working to restore order. It was just a day off.
Who could have foreseen this?
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn, kitchen. Calescent was grinding his patented death spices up. A new blend. He had on gloves and goggles over his eyes; noseplugs in. He was also flirting for all he was worth.
“Eh, more habaneros? More?”
He was elbowing an embarrassed half-Elf, who had just dumped forty-six more habaneros into a grinding bowl. She was reducing the peppers into a paste, and her name was Elia Arcsinger.
SLAYER OF THE GOBLIN KING. ANNIHILATOR OF GOBLIN TRIBES. NEMESIS OF GOBLINS.
Currently being elbowed by a Goblin [Spice Chef] as she helped him work on a new spice mix which he’d promised to whip up into her favorite spicy dishes. She elbowed him back, professional.
“I just think it’ll taste good. And something sweet? Chutney?”
“Oh, yah. For flavor.”
None of that bad spice stuff for them. They liked it hot, but Calescent had standards. Most ‘spicy’ stuff made for the sake of being spicy was just heat without flavor. He wanted your tastebuds to explode with flavor and heat.
“Maybe we should make some fancy flatbread with the scraps. Is very in these days. Flatbread.”
“Really?”
“Oh, yeah. Imani told me. Everyone can make fancy rising bread. So what’s new? Flatbread. You, uh, want to make some dough with me? Great snack.”
“Oh, I don’t know. I’m going to gain weight, and I have work—”
“This is important work! C’mon, you can show me more half-Elven bread. Is pretty good.”
“Pretty good? Only pretty good?”
That barbed Elia slightly, and Calescent grinned.
“Well, what you showed me is ‘pretty good’. You want ‘great’? Show me more.”
“I could do that! I haven’t even baked half the recipes I know! But see here, Calescent, I have to work! And to practice my archery! I can’t take too much time from my morning. Let alone to—to try Dreamleaf in the lounge for hours!”
“Oh, sure. No Dreamleaf today. That was just for fun. We’re not Palt.”
“Of course not. We’re professional.”
“Very professional. Say, you want to watch a movie tonight?”
“A movie? Calescent, I’m—well, which one? I swear I’ve seen all the ones everyone talks about.”
He waggled his eyebrows as he ground more of his deathspice up.
“There always another movie Kevin has on his laptop. He stole a bunch.”
“Is it really theft? That’s so…dishonest. Not that I’m complaining, but how does that work in his world if you can just copy anything?”
“Dunno. Sounds like Goblin stealing. If no one notices it, is it really a crime?”
“Calescent! Okay, how’s this for a base?”
“Let’s add some chutney and taste. Say ‘ahh’.”
He was trying to coax her into taking a bit of the devilishly hot mixture when someone kicked the door open to the kitchens. Elia instantly tried to professionally leap into a corner of the room, but it was just Asgra. She was panting, muddy-aproned, and glowering.
“Hey, Calescent! You got any free bread? Lyonette wants to feed the pigs. It going real bad in the Portal Room, just like you said.”
Calescent hunted around for his bread as he grabbed a basket and put a cloth in it, sighing. Elia appeared from out of nowhere and began to nibble at the new spice mixture as Asgra gave her a wary wave. Calescent shook his head as he opened a cupboard and began tossing little pieces of bread in.
“Thought so. You want butter?”
“They don’t deserve it.”
Asgra muttered darkly. Calescent added a pot of butter anyways and a knife.
“Which pigs are these? The Watch?”
“No. People. They tracking mud in, squealing about being late, and now they pooping. The outhouses. How they not pigs?”
Another wise nod from the [Chef]. He’d seen this coming.
“That’s because Liska sends them away too fast to use restrooms. Maybe Lyonette is nicer to her after this.”
“I’ll be nicer. This so nasty. Thanks for the bread. Hey, you making more spices? Can I try?”
Asgra stared greedily at the newest spice-paste which Calescent was thinking would go down like a treat on some pork belly and pickled cabbage. Spread that on some rice and you’d die—but happy.
“Sure is. I’ll give you some after work, huh?”
“Why not now? I get a break in forty minutes.”
He shooed her towards the door.
“Later, later. I’m busy perfecting it.”
“Oh, with your girlfriend. Sure.”
Asgra glanced at Elia, and the professional Named-rank adventurer turned red and began uttering denials at the top of her lungs. Asgra just strolled out, and that left Calescent and Elia. She spluttered.
“Asgra is the most insane Goblin I’ve ever—she’s just so—I’m sorry Calescent. It’s just…”
She waved her hands at the door, and Calescent pretended to be busy over the chutney he was marrying to the spices.
“Oh, she’s very silly. You never mind her, Elia. Who’d want to date a gross, ugly Goblin, anyways?”
For a moment, he thought of Hekusha, and his hands slowed as he stared at his chopping board, for that had hit a bit too close to home. Elia Arcsinger was silent for a long minute as she ground more habaneros up, then muttered—
“That’s not what I meant. You’re not gross or ugly, Calescent. I mean, I don’t know Goblin aesthetics, but…”
His ears twitched under his chef’s hat, and the [Spice Chef] smiled. He bent back to his work with a will as Elia continued trying to explain her position, not realizing he had gotten it already. But perhaps she didn’t understand her position. Or didn’t want to admit it.
 
——
 
Strange.
Strange how the inn changed you.
Or perhaps you were always able to change or not what you thought you were. Which was scarier, that there was a mystical building capable of altering your very destiny or that you could always do it…if you had only tried?
From Lyonette to Asgra, everyone had levelled and become someone important. Everyone, of course, except Liska.
Liska was the normal Gnoll just phoning it in. She was lazy, and she knew she wasn’t that smart or good at her job. She was there because everyone liked Ishkr, and she hadn’t changed. And there was something comforting about that, y’know? No great expectations.
Not for her.
When Liska got up after a long, long sleep in, she sat up in her little bed in the three-room apartment that she and Ishkr shared, with two tiny bedrooms next to each other. Not enough space for either Gnoll, really, but it beat sharing a room.
It was a cramped apartment. Neither she nor Ishkr liked it here; not the drips that came through the cheap floors, the permanent smell of cat pee they’d never gotten out of the floorboards, or that they’d been burglarized three times—but it was home. He’d paid for it with his first job when they’d moved out of their mother’s house.
There was always cereal with water in the cupboards. Of course, Liska could and did usually go to the inn for breakfast, but she was off-duty, so she reminded herself of that and ate some stale cereal with staler well-water and stared at a wall; there was one chair in the kitchen/livingroom/entryhall. It faced the wall, and there was no table.
“Someday, I’m gonna get my own place. Ishkr better wait and see. Just as soon as I have enough money.”
There were better places in the city, right…? Liska didn’t know. She hadn’t ever really had a job. Well, a really well-paying job, that was. She did odd-jobs for work, but Ishkr was the one with all the money, and that was only relative.
They both knew they were poor. Some Silverfangs who’d come to the city were rich like Krshia, but Ishkr had to support their mother, and their dad had run off…at least Liska was helping with grocery money.
Maybe in like a year or two she’d have enough money. Actually, the inn had unlimited gold. But…Liska squirmed. She couldn’t steal money from Lyonette. Take some for snacks, and stuff, but not just…that much. Not to buy a house! That was real theft. Drat. It was really tempting, but that’d be wrong.
Actually, she and Ishkr both had rooms at The Wandering Inn, nice ones. But this was where she lived, if that made sense. She and Ishkr had paid for this apartment—well, Ishkr had. If she stayed at the inn, it’d be like staying at the place she worked at; she’d never get a break.
“I’ll get some nice apartment someday. All to my own. And bring over all my friends. Heh. And Shashi…”
She smiled for a second at the thought, then grew pensive because it didn’t fill her with excitement or joy anymore. Shashi had been weird of late. Always complaining Liska didn’t have time anymore or wasn’t cool. No, wait, Archmage. Just because Liska had a job—
“I bet she’s hanging out at Hariett’s again. I can get something fun for us to share. Like, a bottle of wine.”
Could she afford that? She didn’t know where her [Dreamleaf Dealer] was—it’d been ages since Liska had bought some for them. Liska anxiously checked her money pouch. Then she stopped, stared, and pulled something out of it.
“Hold on a second. Did Yelroan make a mistake? No way. What’s this all doing in here?”
By ‘this’ she meant gold. As in, a lot of gold pieces. When had this appeared in her bag of holding? Well, when had she had a bag of holding?
She’d just gotten it one day when Lyonette had decided everyone on the staff needed one. And that was so big Liska had been so pleased about being able to hide snacks and stuff in there and bragged to everyone about it. She’d forgotten she kept her money in here.
Like…
A lot of money.
Gold pieces and pieces. Liska’s eyes went rounder as she pulled out more and more. By the time she’d counted to fifty, she shouted.
“I’m rich!”
The highest-class wine she’d ever eyed had been a gold coin per bottle! She could buy fifty bottles for her and Shashi! More! Dead gods…she could buy like a fancy restaurant meal for breakfast, not these stupid oats! Liska stared at her coins. She stared at her half-eaten bowl of cereal.
 
——
 
Liska walked back and forth in front of one of those trendy new cafés she’d wanted to go to six times before the [Waitress] asked her if she wanted a seat. Then Liska refused, ran off, and bought breakfast at a Gnoll market stall.
It was great. Fresh silkap, some bread, and a piece of sausage she cut up with her belt knife was a feast. Liska imagined having a cool latte or something at the café…but it wasn’t her style. Plus, she’d been too nervous to spend her money.
She never had this much before. She kept her paw on her bag of holding, worrying about [Thieves]. Did Ishkr have this much money? Were they being overpaid? She had to ask Yelroan about this.
I’ve never had so much money. I bet Ishkr isn’t used to it either, that idiot. Unless…he spends all of it on Mom and the apartment and me.
This was a lot of gold, wasn’t it? Shouldn’t she go to the Merchant’s Guild to put it away or something? Liska worried. She didn’t know how to do responsible stuff. She wasn’t used to a steady job. Life had been simpler before Ishkr got her the job at the inn.
Go out, have fun with Shashi. Avoid the Watch or give them a bit of what they deserved and sit in jail for a day or two. Stay up to date on important stuff like who was in a relationship with who and what the latest gossip was. Keep yourself fed or go back home and argue with Ishkr. If you got caught by the Watch, well, hope Ishkr or someone you know had the coin to bail you out and keep your nose clean for a bit. Work a shitty job for a while until you had some coins, then quit and celebrate with Shashi…
It was why Liska glared at [Guards] on the street before they did anything to her. She was used to one of them shouting at her or getting arrested for public indecency.
In other words, kissing other girls, like Shashi, in public. Or telling someone shouting at her and calling her names to stuff her own tail up her unused, baggy, spider-infested—
Liska was so used to being in trouble she felt antsy in the Merchant’s Guild when she walked up to the desk. The [Receptionist] raised her brows when Liska mumbled her way to the front of the line.
“Um, hello, I’d like to open an account or something. I can put gold in here, right?”
“That’s right…Miss. We do offer accounts, but we have a minimum five gold requirement per account. Your name?”
“Liska. Liska Silverfang.”
“Well, Miss Silverfang, I’d like to help you, but unless you have the gold and a certification from an employer or person in good standings, I’m afraid we can’t just open an account. You could ask someone you know who has an account for a letter of reference, and we do have fees if you fail to keep your account open or overdraw from our lending services.”
She produced a long brochure, and Liska’s head hurt as her heart beat too fast, trying to figure out what it all meant. She almost turned around then and there, but the [Receptionist] was sighing.
“Um, I think my brother has an account here? Ishkr?”
“Let me just look it up. Ishkr Silverfang? I wish you people would take different names. Do you know how many entries we have under ‘Silverfang’?”
The Drake [Receptionist]—she was a Drake, of course—made Liska’s stomach hurt. She was pretty much the reason why Liska hated places like these. You people. As if Liska had asked to be a Silverfang or live in a city where everyone else had stupid last names like Yasstail.
This was a side of Liscor that Lyonette didn’t have to deal with. Sure, she was a Human and also a different species, but she was sort of lucky because she was a Human. Not a Gnoll. Drakes and Gnolls knew each other. Humans were outsiders. But Gnolls and Drakes had done this dance for ages. As for being a Turnscale…well…
The annoyed [Receptionist] had been pulling open a big filing cabinet at the back and searching for names. She paused and pulled out some papers, then double-checked it and then showed it to a co-worker at another desk. Then she hurried back and rather flusteredly sat down.
“Er…Miss Liska Silverfang? Do you have any other identification?”
“That’s me. Other identification?”
“Like…a card from the Merchant’s Guild?”
Liska blinked at the Drake woman and then reached into her bag of holding. She pulled out old snacks, loose change…then a shiny Merchant’s Guild card in brass.
“Hey, where’d this come from?”
The [Receptionist] snatched it, stared at it, and gave Liska a weak smile.
“Er, my mistake, Miss Liska! Your account is in good order! Were you looking to withdraw or deposit today? I do apologize for the delay!”
“My what? I have an account?”
Liska stared at the woman, and then, when the [Receptionist] showed her the file with her account in it—and the money banked—her eyes popped.
“When did I get this? I never had an account!”
The suddenly very-friendly [Receptionist] checked a few records.
“I believe yours is registered via The Wandering Inn? They put money in weekly. A ‘Yelroan’ is our point-of-contact for the inn. Would you like us to send a Street Runner to him?”
“Yelroan? No, I know him. Wow. Is this real?”
“Yes, Miss. Would you like to take out any gold…?”
Liska stared at the number on the paper. Then peeked around. And it hit her.
She was rich. Well, she’d sort of known she was being paid like that or something, hadn’t she? She vaguely remembered being given this card by Yelroan, come to think of it. But who paid attention to all the lectures you got at work? Not Liska.
“Uh…maybe I’ll come back later. Thanks.”
She wandered out of the Merchant’s Guild as the [Receptionist] shouted she was welcome back anytime, and then…well…
It occurred to Liska she hadn’t taken time off work in a long while. Certainly not long enough to investigate her finances. She went home every few nights, of course, but she usually didn’t have much time to do more than try and find where Shashi was and listen to her girlfriend complain she was never around before having to sleep. Now, it hit her again.
She had a job that paid well.
“Oh no. I’m an adult!”
 
——
 
Shashi Slisfang was a 5’5’’ Drake who was eighteen years old and had a spicy flash of red scales over her bright yellow pattern. It made her look like she’d been kissed by a fire, in her own words, and she was a Level 7 [Malcontent], a Level 4 [Thief], and a Level 3 [Kisser].
She always wore the same iconic, too-long leggings with frayed cuffs and a jacket, even when it was too warm in the spring, made of Corusdeer leather and cracklingly faded. She’d stitched an emblem on the back, which people thought was a rose but was supposed to be a Dragon spreading its wings.
She was always hanging out with a crowd, the coolest people Liska knew, trying to get the attention of Adrerni or Liffe, or just bumming a swig of a drink or Dreamleaf off the people who had it.
She was a Turnscale, Liska’s girlfriend, and she was put out.
“Why shouldn’t I date Adrerni? He’s single!”
She was arguing with some of her friends, who were her age or younger, the group of Drakes and Gnolls who weren’t in apprenticeships or who skived off. Rebels, even if none of them had the class. People who didn’t fit in. People who hated the Watch and who were openly Turnscales, or at least friendly to them.
She was arguing with Thaheart, a Gnoll, who had his arms folded as he posted up against one wall in the Antinium district. They were all standing around, bored, waiting for something to happen, and talking. They barely had a gold coin between them all, but they were independent. Free. Thaheart growled back.
“Well, because you’re dating Liska.”
“We’re only dating because she’s not around enough for me to break up with her. I’m telling you, Thaheart, she’s changed. She doesn’t do anything anymore. She just works all day for that inn.”
“Like her brother? He’s a real Miner. So not Archmage.”
Someone else in this group tried the slang on for size, but it didn’t really fit the, uh…group. Here was the thing: they were in their advanced teens. Seventeen was the youngest here. A lot of the old guard had quit. Gotten jobs or gotten into trouble with the law, real trouble. Shashi and her friends were a dying breed.
At the same time, though, they weren’t young enough to be running around with the real kids, who were hip with the new lingo and went around saying ‘Archmage’. Which Shashi and her friends had sneered at—until they realized everyone was doing it.
So they were too old to be young and too young to be adults. Trapped. Maybe—in the future—they’d need to get a shitty job. But not this year. Not right now. Liska, though…Shashi grumbled as she shoved her claws into her jacket.
“She’s never around to hang out, or if she is, she can barely do an hour before she just—has to sleep.”
“At what time?”
“Like, 11 PM. She gets up at 6 AM.”
“What? That’s crazy. She was so cool. Remember that time she kicked a [Guard] into the sewer grate for fun? She was arrested for three whole days.”
Shashi hung her head.
“She used to be fun. Then her brother got to her. He’s an asshole. And anti-Turnscale.”
Thaheart frowned as everyone peered at Shashi.
“Really? Ishkr, right? I don’t remember him, but he didn’t like us when we were hanging out at Liska’s place.”
“That’s because he hates me. Anti-Turnscale. Probably.”
Ishkr had glared at her a lot whenever Liska brought her over, which was the basis for Shashi’s take on that. And if you were anti-Turnscale, you were dead to her. Which was most of the city. She went on, angrily kicking pebbles across the street. She was aiming for a fancy glass window of a Drake version of a [Barber] shop; they clipped your neck-spines, removed dead scales, sharpened your claws, and so on. The [Barber] was glaring at her whenever she hit the window, but he knew better than to come out; the group might decide to toss a rock then run, and the broken glass was not worth the hassle.
“He got to Liska. Now she’s just another brain-dead worker.”
“She comes by. Didn’t she show up last time with some dough-nuts? I couldn’t believe she got them! They were new!”
“Yeah, like a year ago.”
Shashi grumbled, and another Drake put in. His name was Ulte, and he wasn’t a Turnscale; he vehemently denied that. His dad was some bigshot Drake in Liscor, but everyone knew he liked staring at attractive Drakes and Gnolls of the same gender. Shashi just bet he was crushing on Thaheart, who had amazing black chest fur all ruffled up—he was a [Flirt]—but Ulte was too shy. He also was the one who often had coins to share for something to eat or drink.
“I, um, I remember her being all shaken up about that. Remember? She was talking about that Goblin King thing?”
“She didn’t see it. She’s just making stuff up. Liska lies all the time about the inn. She says that [Innkeeper] can walk through walls or fought with Guildmistress Tekshia herself. She’s just trying to make it seem like she’s still cool.”
Shashi waved this off. Thaheart frowned.
“Wait, isn’t Liska working at The Wandering Inn? That place is crazy. I heard they once fought off a Creler attack then served them for breakfast!”
“I heard their [Head Server] threw claws with Facestealer, that monster that came out of the dungeon.”
“Everyone hears weird things about the inn!”
Shashi snapped, growing royally annoyed by all this. She was mad at Liska, and she complained to Thaheart.
“Adrerni just broke up with his latest girlfriend. He’s pining! Why can’t I flirt with him?”
“I mean, because he’s too hot for you?”
She kicked at him, and Thaheart retreated.
“Yow! Don’t get mad at me just because you don’t have a chance! Liska or not, he wouldn’t look sideways at any of us. Even me!”
He fluffed his fur up importantly as Shashi glowered, but she knew he was right. Adrerni was one of the most popular Gnolls in the city for anyone her age who had eyes. He was one of the top new servers at Wishdrinks, and he had a spot over one eye and a smile that could melt butter.
“I think he’s going to a party at Hariett’s tonight. Anyone got any alchemical makeup? C’mon!”
“What about Liska?”
Shashi was drawing breath to say what she thought about the Gnoll when someone called out.
“Hey, there you guys are! What about me? Hey, Shashi…how’s it going? Look what I’ve got!”
Liska! Shashi jumped and flushed under her scales as Thaheart bit his tongue and gave her a significant gaze, but there came the Gnoll of the hour. She appeared…
Well…
Decent.
There was something about Liska that had changed. She’d put on casual clothes today; just a loose two-layer tunic of green and beige that seemed like it came from the Great Plains and long leggings with faded silver wolves on them; her best clothing, Shashi knew.
She’d even combed her hair back, but it wasn’t that—that was just Liska standard. No, she seemed…more official? More formal? More stooge-like, Shashi decided. Like some kind of worker at a Guild.
She scowled at Liska as the Gnoll waved something, and everyone greeted her with hoots or insults.
“Hey, Liska! I haven’t seen your tail in ages! What, you afraid of all this rain?”
Thaheart teased Liska, and the Gnoll scowled.
“I was working, okay? I just got a day off today, and—hey, beautiful.”
She went to hug Shashi, and the Drake embraced her back, but she didn’t feel the spark they’d had earlier last year when they’d finally gotten together. Shashi felt a pang, but that was how it happened.
Liska’s not who she used to be. I’d better break up with her so neither of us gets hurt. It wasn’t really about Adrerni. Liska seemed to sense it too, because her hug was short, and she gave Shashi a questioning, sheepish smile.
“Sorry. I really was working.”
“Hey, someone has to make all the gold. Got any to share?”
A Gnoll broke in with a grin, and everyone laughed. Liska hesitated, then brought something out from behind her back.
“Well, actually…here’s a peace offering. Feast your eyes on this.”
She brought out a fancy bottle of wine, and Shashi’s eyes popped. Thaheart crowed as he snatched it from her,
“No way, this is the good stuff! Wait! It’s got a wax stamp on the cork and everything! Liska, did you steal this?”
Shashi got worried for Liska immediately; they stole things of course, but an expensive bottle of wine got you a lot of time in jail. But Liska put her paws in her pockets.
“Nah, I got paid from work, so I thought…it’s a really good bottle too.”
“It’s at least a gold piece.”
Ulte remarked quietly, and Thaheart paused as he was about to pop the wax seal. He stared at Liska, and she glanced at Shashi.
“I thought we could share it. Um, you know, because I have a day off. Go and pop it, Thaheart. Anyone got a cup?”
No one did, but they were used to taking a swig and passing it on. The wine tasted fancier to Shashi when she took a huge gulp, or maybe it was just knowing it was a whole gold coin. She stared at Liska.
“How much did you spend on this?”
“I mean—some money. But I had a lot of backpay, and—how’re things? Where’s Orrell or Lizze and Vakki?”
Liska stared about, naming some old regulars she knew, and Shashi’s stomach churned. She forgot the pleasant feeling of the wine in her veins. She began to get angry at Liska all over again, and the group went silent. Liska cast around, and it was Thaheart who replied shortly.
“Lizze’s family got her engaged to some Drake down south. She’s going to get married. Vakki’s in jail; she got arrested for trying to claw Lizze’s father’s eyes out. Orrell’s gone.”
Liska’s ears flattened.
“Lizze? What, to some Drake…guy?”
“Yep.”
Shashi answered flatly, not-quite-glaring at Liska. She stared at the Gnoll’s feet as Liska looked around.
“Vakki? When’s she getting out of jail?”
“Never. Or they’re going to exile her or put her in an involuntary work program. She’s not paying the fine; it’s set at twenty gold pieces, and her parents can’t pay that.”
“Dead gods. But Orrell? What’s he—?”
Thaheart snatched the wine bottle from Ulte, who was examining it, and took down nearly a tenth of it in one go, ignoring the protests.
“No one knows. One day, he was gone, and when I went to check, his family told me to get lost. Everyone started throwing rocks at me. The entire neighborhood found out Orrell’s a Turnscale. He left the city; didn’t even say goodbye.”
Dead silence. Liska peeked around, and she wilted, that tentative smile gone. And that—that was why Shashi was mad at Liska, though it wasn’t Liska’s fault. It was what they were.
Not all of them Turnscales, but none of them were ‘good kids’ with safe jobs and prospects. Ulte didn’t want to join the family business. Thaheart refused to be another Silverfang, and both he and Shashi were Turnscales. Seeing friends vanish or get into serious trouble? That was life.
And Liska had left it all. Chosen the safe way out. Good for her. Shashi was mad at Liska, her girlfriend, and when Liska went to put her arm around her shoulders, Shashi muttered.
“Liska, let’s talk.”
 
——
 
Sometimes, being in Liscor sucked. Only, it sucked in ways even other people didn’t get. Erin had seen how bad Liscor could be, but she had never seen it like this. Ishkr always argued with Liska about the Liscor he knew and the Liscor she knew.
He liked the Watch. He didn’t mind them. She associated them with trouble and danger, or at least, she had before working at the inn. She didn’t trust to the goodness of strangers, and while he probably didn’t either—at least, Drake strangers—he was still a member of the Silverfang community.
As far as Liska was concerned, the Silverfangs hadn’t done much for her people either. Not as much to harm, but this was the familiar suck she knew.
The only difference was…
She was different.
She kept checking her bag of holding. What was that Thaheart had said? A twenty-gold fine? That was insane. Vakki was a hothead when it came to her [Lover]. She was meek as could be any other time. She must have done damage or…or…
“Liska, hey. You know—it’s good you came out today. I never see you. You’re always busy.”
Shashi leaned into the dry shelter under the eaves as the rains poured down. It was still raining, damn it. Liska folded her arms.
“I know. I’m sorry…”
She wanted nothing more than to kiss Shashi and catch up, but the vibe was all wrong. Shashi kept glancing away, and Liska—
Liska didn’t feel that crazy urge to jump Shashi, the heady, ridiculous excitement pulsing in her veins every time she saw her girlfriend. It had been there when they’d first met. But recently…
No, even the last few times they’d met, it hadn’t been there. It’d been fighting and arguing about whether Liska was too busy, and—
Liska had a bad feeling before Shashi checked her nails. She never did that when she was being straightforwards.
“You know Adrerni’s single again.”
“No way, whaaaaat?”
Liska…was trying to put some energy into the usual gossip but she didn’t feel it. Adrerni? From Wishdrinks. Really handsome Gnoll. Not her type, but Shashi appreciated both…types. Liska remembered thinking he was the coolest person ever—both someone who had a job and was important and worked at the most popular bar, but also someone who could still hang out and be real all the time.
But she just thought of Normen, one eye blazing in his face, or Saliss of Lights pointing at the ground as they stood before the shaking inn as the Goblin King prepared to break through, and—
I’ve changed. Shashi was still super cute and beautiful and…and Liska stared at the [Malcontent] and said it before she knew what was going through her brain.
“I think we should break up, Shashi. I’m sorry.”
“I think we should—huh? You’re breaking up with me?”
Shashi recoiled, and Liska flinched. She scuffed a foot on the ground as some of their friends glanced over, then talked louder, pretending they couldn’t hear the relatively commonplace occurrence.
“Sorry. I just—I know I’ve been a really bad girlfriend. And you were complaining last time we met. I just…yeah. So, um, I think it’s not working out. It’s me, not you.”
“It—but—it is you!”
“Yeah.”
“You’re never around! You’re working that silly job at the inn!”
“You wanted to work there, Shashi, remember?”
“Well, when I needed coin, but not when I realized you never do anything but work! Why did you even stay?”
It pays well. Liska didn’t say that out loud. Shashi’s tail swished in the street. She kicked a stone, and Liska winced as it cracked into a window of some shop.
She could break the glass. Doesn’t she care? Wait, I am being an Ishkr. Oh no. Shashi went on.
“You and I haven’t gone on a date in ages! You’re so inconsiderate—of course we have to break up! I was going to do it, but I guess you figured it out!”
She glowered until Liska hung her head. She heard thumping—an Antinium group was walking down the street, fast and noisy, talking as they hid their antennae from the rain.
“I’m sorry, Shashi.”
“You should be! You—! I’m done with you! No offense, but yeah. It’s not working. I’m sorry, Liska.”
That hurt. It really did. And yet, Liska had gone through a lot of relationships like this, and somehow, she felt relieved. She stood there awkwardly with Shashi, who took the moment to kick another stone. This time, it sailed past the group of Antinium, who stopped, and then one spoke.
“Excuse me.”
Shashi jumped and froze as a Worker lifted a hand. He turned from the group of seven and approached her.
“I believe it is considered bad manners to kick or otherwise maneuver stones at high velocity in the city. I had observed you striking the window there.”
He pointed at the barbershop window where the Drake was eying the Antinium. The Worker waved; the [Barber] waved back after a moment. The Antinium went on.
“It is dangerous to kick such stones, Miss Drake. You might hurt a pedestrian or damage the windows. As a person who replaces windows, I am very distressed to see glass in jeopardy. That is Ailendamus glass, you know.”
“I, uh, I—”
Shashi was backing up from the Worker, but Liska broke in.
“Hey, we’re really sorry about that! It won’t happen again!”
“Oh, hello, Miss Gnoll. Thank you for this clarification.”
The window-setting Antinium smiled at her and nodded. He stepped back, and Liska smiled at him.
“Thanks and sorry.”
The Workers marched on, and Liska stared at them. So they were random Workers on a stroll. How—
“That was crazy. Did you see that, Liska? They were threatening me! I heard the Antinium were getting worse, but that one was mad!”
Shashi clung to Liska’s shoulders when the Workers were halfway down the street. Liska half-turned.
“What? No, they were just worried about the windows.”
“Liska, they’re Ants!”
“…No, they’re just Workers. I work with them all the time on the job, Shashi. That one was smiling at us.”
Liska was nonplussed, but Shashi was shaken. So were the others. When Thaheart saw them come over, he tossed the empty wine bottle down.
“Let’s get out of here. They might call for the Watch or some Soldiers or something.”
Liska stared at the wine bottle as it rolled down the street. Was no one going to pick that up…? She saw everyone hurrying off and joined them after a second. Again, Liska realized—
She was different. Not them.
 
——
 
Adrerni was hanging out at Hariett’s, which was a bar that was far less clean or upstanding than Wishdrinks was—but which catered to a certain crowd.
Namely, Turnscales. He was at the center of the most popular people their age in Liscor, and Thaheart was fluffing his fur for all it was worth. He did have [Fluffed Fur], incidentally, but he wasn’t sure it was going to do the trick in this competitive room.
Well, he was also trying to get away from Shashi, but it wasn’t working. She was hissing at him and Ulte.
“Can you believe Liska broke up with me? Is she dating someone?”
“I don’t know. Dead gods, it’s Adrerni and Liffe!”
Liffe was a Drake with amazing neck spines in this swept back look that had each spine subtly dyed differently on the edges, so it slowly ran a gradient of colors—deep blue to purple today. Everyone wanted to talk to the Drake and Gnoll. Everyone wanted to be them.
However, Shashi was hung up on Liska.
“Do you think she spent all her pay on us? She’s never good with her coins. She’s always complaining about Ishkr being on her back—if she had money, she should keep it for herself!”
Thaheart rolled his eyes.
“Sounds like someone’s still acting like her girlfriend. Maybe she stole the bottle.”
Ulte muttered.
“I don’t think she did. That was a real bottle from a wine shop. They’d have it spelled.”
Both his friends turned to eye him, and the Drake flushed.
“I tried to walk out with one one time. My dad was there, so I didn’t get arrested; he just thought I was an idiot. It’s at least a gold coin.”
“Dead gods, how much money is she making at that inn?”
Thaheart was astonished, and Shashi’s tail swished.
“Not enough to justify her never coming to hang out! She’s changed. Do you think she’s seeing someone?”
Thaheart rolled his eyes again. He was working up the nerve to say hello to Adrerni and a group of Gnolls, some of whom looked like real Silverfangs from the tribes who’d stuck around the city, when Liska walked past them.
“Whoa, Hariett’s is hopping! I haven’t been here in, like, ages. Where’s Hariett?”
She meant the old Drake who ran the place, a busybody that sometimes got on people’s nerves, but who didn’t call the Watch—much. Thaheart sighed.
“Liska! C’mon, over here!”
He waved her over to their table where they were having cheap ales and water, and Liska sniffed and eyed the drinks.
“What? Aren’t we talking to Adrerni and Liffe?”
“Not like that! You can’t just walk over!”
“What? Oh, yeah, right.”
Liska had lost all her social instincts! She had nearly gone over in the middle of the dancing and partying to the table with the most popular Drake and Gnoll and…she seemed out of place here.
No…Thaheart glanced at Liska twice and realized she wasn’t out of place in the bar. She was bouncing on her feet, glancing at the dance floor, still excited, eyes sparkling. She was just out of place with his group.
It was like she’d lost some of that fear that she’d had. That kept Shashi being the one who led Liska around and egged her on. Was it confidence? Or just—a lack of worry?
Thaheart was so distracted he didn’t realize Shashi was arguing with Liska.
“You can’t go out there! You don’t have anyone to dance with since we’re broken up!”
“Aw, well—that’s okay. It’s a free dance floor, and you only die once. Or twice at most, I’ve heard.”
Liska wanted to dance. In defiance of protocol, a general movement onto the dance floor with a great song from a song crystal, or even a partner, she left the table, hopped out, and began to dance.
Horribly.
By herself.
Her three friends watched in horror. Ulte put a claw over his eyes. But Liska was just flailing her arms around, and worse—
“Hey! Is this the Ksmvr dance? I think I’m doing it!”
She was doing the Ksmvr dance! The one where you shook your fists out, shook your hips from left to right. It wasn’t a hard dance, and Liska was doing it well, but—that had been popular months ago.
Thaheart was drinking deeply from his well-watered ale, trying to pretend he didn’t know Liska. But heads were turning, and people were pointing and laughing at the Gnoll dancing there.
Of course, the [Doorgnoll] noticed. But she just blushed, then grinned and kept dancing.
“Thaheart, Ulte, c’mon! This is my only day off! Please? I’ve been sitting for, like, weeks! C’mon!”
She waved at them, and the Gnoll and Drake were hesitating. Shashi was gulping down her drink.
“Someone’s got to rescue that idiot. C’mon, you two—”
She was working up the nerve to rescue her ex when there was a laugh. It was loud, infectious, and it came from the high table in the center of the room where they sat. Adrerni stood up.
“Is someone doing the Ksmvr of Chandrar dance? That’s Archmage. Am I doing that right? I’ll join in!”
He appeared from behind his table so fast it was like a Skill—which it probably was. Adrerni was a high-level [Host], Level 25+, one of the greatest in the city for his age! He began to copy the dance as Liska jumped, and his moves were fluid. Then she grinned, stuck her arms out, and they were both—
“Oh Ancestors. It’s him.”
Shashi was about to faint, but then Thaheart was getting up, disbelieving. He began to leave the table—too slowly. Because, suddenly, there were dozens on the dance floor, who wanted to do the exact same dance move.
“Hey, wait, we’re with her—”
Thaheart, Ulte, and Shashi and their group tried to get to Liska, but they were suddenly slow to join in. A Drake girl practically teleported ahead of Thaheart. She smugly stuck her arms out, dancing with the room. She winked at Thaheart.
“[Follow the Trend]. Too late, loser!”
Damn, she had a Skill that let her copy what was going on faster than he did! Thaheart debated pushing past her, but there was no getting to Liska. He lamely copied the dance, wondering how Liska was pulling this off without cringing to death. And how she’d gotten so lucky.
Perhaps…it was that change in Liska. Because she didn’t even keep dancing long with Adrerni. She and he seemed to lose interest in the dance when Thaheart would have danced until he dropped to keep hanging out with the male Gnoll. But when Liska stepped off of the dance floor, and everyone went to follow her—she was the one talking with the Gnoll.
 
——
 
“I think I’ve seen you around. Do you hang around here often?”
“Oh, I mean—I used to all the time. Then I got a job. I’m just here to celebrate for a day or two.”
Strange. Liska was sure she should be having a panic attack from speaking with Adrerni. But he was a bit sweaty, grinning, and he was just—a handsome Gnoll. Because he felt like a person, she wasn’t stuttering or blushing.
Erin was scarier. Yelroan was higher-level. Even Mrsha was more important. Liffe, the Drake [Hostess], did make Liska blush with embarrassment, but the Drake was friendly.
“I think I’ve seen you around! I’m Liffe. I work at Wishdrinks with this airhead.”
She nudged Adrerni, and Liska smiled.
“I knew that! I’m Liska. I work at The Wandering Inn.”
The two Wishdrinks [Hosts] were half-turning to their table when they froze. They slowly spun back to Liska as she went searching for her friends.
“Wait, you work at the inn? The Wandering Inn?”
“What? Yeah. I mean, just as the [Doorgnoll]. It was nice meeting you two.”
Liska didn’t have any thought the two had more interest in little old her, but to her shock, Adrerni spun.
“Wait, do you have a moment? Come have a drink with us! No one from the inn ever comes to Wishdrinks! They went once or twice, but I didn’t get a chance to serve—this is crazy. Hey, clear a spot for Liska here!”
Liffe was on Liska’s other side, ushering her forwards.
“Do you want something to eat? Do you have time to talk? Some of our seniors got to work at the inn! When they had that beach thing? We have so many questions. Our boss, Mister Valiet, would love if you had a chance to ever come by. Drinks and food on the house! Any time! He’s been hoping someone comes by, but you guys don’t need us.”
“Wha—really? I mean, I’m with my friends. But I have time.”
“Bring them over!”
That was how Liska found a petrified Shashi, Ulte, and Thaheart sitting with Adrerni and Liffe and their friends as they grilled Liska with questions. It was strange, surreal, but at the same time…
Sort of felt like being back on familiar ground, if that made sense. Because it was the inn, and the wide-eyed [Host] duo were asking questions Liska knew the answers to.
“So that wasn’t an illusion, the beach?”
Liska waved a paw airily as she glanced at Shashi, whose eyes were bulging. She took a sip of some nice beer, not watery at all.
“Oh, no, that was part illusion, but real sand and stuff.”
“Ancestors, I heard it was nice! The [Innkeeper], she let all the staff party after they were done.”
“Who, Erin? Yeah, she’s like that. Everyone was dying to get in—it was a real pain. I had to wait until after work to get in.”
Liska scowled, remembering the crush of people demanding to get into the beach, but Adrerni gave her a second stare.
“Wait, you were there? Can you get in anymore?”
“The beach? No…it’s gone. It went in the Winter Solstice.”
Liska’s ears drooped again. That amazing moment would never reappear. Liffe stared at her.
“So you’re not a new hire?”
“Me? No, I’m new. I’ve been there only, like, half a year or something. Well, and this year.”
“That’s ages! No one’s able to get a job there—I mean, no one’s applying because it’s crazy. But…we’ve heard there are Goblins and Antinium there!”
“Oh, yeah. They’ve been there longer than I have.”
“And it’s not dangerous?”
“Not because of Goblins or Antinium.”
For some reason, that provoked something like a profound silence, and Liska sipped from a straw, uncomfortable, until Adrerni looked at Liffe.
“Well…if the inn ever wants something from Wishdrinks, they could come over, any time. Seriously, we have orders to let anyone from the inn stay, even the Antinium or Goblins. But, uh…is the inn hiring?”
Liska blinked at him.
“You want to work at The Wandering Inn? Why? You work for Wishdrinks! It’s like the most famous bar in Liscor!”
The Gnoll [Host] was smoothing his fur with one paw, and whatever Skills he had, they outclassed Thaheart by a magnitude.
“Yes, in Liscor. But The Wandering Inn? I could gain, like, ten levels in a year if I worked there.”
“If you lived.”
Liffe put in, face concerned. Adrerni rolled his eyes.
“I’d risk that. I’m just not sure I’m qualified. I’m a Level 25 [Host of Parties]. I know that’s not great, but if you mentioned me the next time they’re hiring…do you think I’d have a shot?”
This time, the [Doorgnoll] hesitated, because she didn’t know if Lyonette was hiring at all.
“I could ask Lyonette about that, sure. I mean, no promises…I levelled pretty fast myself, I guess.”
“Really? What’s your class?”
“[Doorgnoll]. I, um, work the magic door at the front of the inn. It’s nothing special.”
Liffe was resting her chin on her hands and giving the impression she was hanging on Liska’s every word. Her eyes flicked to the door.
“Wait, really? That’s important, isn’t it? I heard that the inn was having door problems all morning! There was a huge queue in Shivertail Plaza!”
Liska blinked.
“Really? I wonder if they’re having an incident. The door’s not that hard. You just swing it open, shout at people, change it, and repeat all day. Anyone could do that. Um, but don’t steal my job.”
She grinned, and everyone laughed at that. Liska peeked around.
“Shashi hates my job. She’s always telling me to quit.”
“What? I do not!”
Shashi jumped and broke out of her trance. She began refuting the truth as Adrerni grinned. Then one of the other Gnolls who’d been largely silent at the table sniffed. He was muscular and, Liska realized, wearing tribal gear.
A Plains Gnoll.
“If you’re from the inn, do you know ‘Mrsha the Great and Terrible’? She’s the most important Gnoll in the whole of Izril, to hear our Chieftain and [Shamans] talk about it. Some little Doombearer. I bet she’s just a crying brat.”
He grinned and got chuckles from other Silverfangs sitting with the two [Hosts]. Adrerni hesitated, but Liska frowned.
“Mrsha’s young, but she’s pretty important. Everyone likes her at the inn unless she plays a prank.”
“Oh, come on. She’s some child who wandered around and started that mess at the Meeting of Tribes. She’s got to be an obnoxious cub.”
“She’s pretty brave.”
Liska shot back, getting annoyed at the dismissive Gnoll’s attitude. The Silverfang teen growled.
“She’s got some Human for a caretaker, and her entire tribe got killed because of her.”
Liska took a deep drink from her mug and pushed it across the table.
“The Stone Spears tribe and Lyonette. Neither event was her fault, and she’s done more than you know. Don’t be rude.”
“Are you serious?”
He stood up abruptly, and the table went silent. Liska stared at the angry Silverfang.
“Yeah.”
She met his eyes as they narrowed, and he growled at her. Liska sat there, uncomfortable as heck for forty seconds, until, abruptly, the Silverfang Gnoll whirled.
“Ridiculous. Where’s the privy?”
He went striding across the room, and Liffe leaned over when he was gone.
“Dead gods, Liska! You stared him down! Are you crazy? Is that, like, mandatory for employees at the inn?”
“I did? He was being obnoxious. Plus, what was he going to do?”
“Hit you? He’s a [Warrior] from the Silverfang tribe! He’s going north with their people!”
“Oh. Well…I’d probably survive.”
If she’d been around her door, she’d have been fine. Here, Liska realized she might have been in trouble, but she watched the angry Silverfang Gnoll pulling at the handle of the restroom door. He growled, heaved—
It popped out suddenly and hit him so hard he fell down. Liska took a sip from her mug and hid a smile. She promptly lost the smile when said Silverfang warrior sprang up, stared at her, and put two-and-two together. He came striding back towards her.
“You—!”
“Aw, poop. Where’s my emergency wand?”
Liska began fumbling for her bag of holding. She had one somewhere. Adrerni got up, and so did Ulte and Shashi. They were trying to block the furious Silverfang as his buddies got up. Liska leaned back.
[Forcewall]. Use the [Forcewall] or—
Before she could draw the wand she’d just found in her bag of holding or do anything, someone got in between the lunging Silverfang and Liska. A short Drake blocked him and spoke.
“[Eject Patron]. Out of my bar.”
She grabbed the surprised warrior who was twice her size and tossed him down the length of the room. The door blew open, and Hariett, the [Bar Owner], watched as the Gnoll tumbled out the door.
“Alright, everyone sit! I don’t want the Watch being called! Settle down! Down, I said!”
She shoved the Silverfangs back, and with the help of a bouncer who’d appeared out of nowhere, the situation defused. Liska blinked, let go of her wand, and Hariett the old and, Liska recalled, curmudgeonly and bossy owner was there.
“No fighting in my bar with Skills, understand, Miss? And you lot—talk to your friend. If he growls at anyone in my bar again, he’s out. I want respect, understand? If you can’t have that towards each other, you will be banned.”
“Of course, Miss Hariett. We’re very sorry.”
Adrerni nudged Liska, but she just ducked her head.
“Sorry. I shouldn’t have used my Skill.”
Hariett eyed Liska.
“I may want a word later, Miss. But let’s consider this settled. Agreed?”
She was rather agreeable, especially for someone who’d nearly had a fight started in her pub. Lyonette would have chewed someone out and spat them into pieces.
Liska apologized repeatedly, and when they went back to the table, she sat there with Adrerni, Liffe, Shashi, and the others, and she felt it, that odd feeling that had come over her all morning.
Change.
 
——
 
It wasn’t that Liska was utterly reborn. She was sort of upset about Shashi. Mostly that they hadn’t gotten in one last smoochfest before breaking it up. Shashi was a great kisser.
And it was, y’know, hard to be a Turnscale in Liscor. Which is what Liska was, and had always known she’d been, ever since she was little. Whenever she and Ishkr had run out of their home when their mother was fighting with their father or using the Hazyflower, Liska had gone to different places than her brother.
How did you figure out you were a Turnscale? To Liska, it had been as simple as seeing a pair of Drakes stepping into an alleyway to kiss and realizing, with a jolt, that they were the same gender, and realizing that was something she could do.
Of course—she was a Gnoll. It was easier for her.
That’s what Shashi always said, and most of the other Drakes that Liska had dated had the same philosophy. All very well for her to live amongst the Silverfangs who were new to Liscor. Drakes had families, relatives—they were the ones who’d invented the word.
Turnscale. Someone who was wrong in the head.
Liska didn’t like to argue on that point because, well, she wanted to keep kissing pretty Drake girls, but sometimes it annoyed her. That had been her life until Ishkr told her she had to get a job at his stupid inn, and they’d made her sit and watch a door all day.
Running around to have fun, clashing with the Watch, trying to stay out of sight and trouble when ‘respectable’ citizens got mad at them.
And…dreading getting older and having to get a job. Feeling aimless, unwanted, and unloved, as if Ishkr and her parents were ashamed of her.
Worst of all, watching as friends vanished or had what Vakki and Lizze had gone through occur.
It wasn’t great.
So yeah. Maybe Liska had forgotten about Shashi and her life in the inn where she got paid, had respect, and got to sit on a couch all day.
It wasn’t like Liska was unimportant. She got that Erin was doing good things. She liked Mrsha and knew Lyonette was a real life [Princess]. She felt important there! Plus, she got to see things occur, like Valeterisa square off with Amerys, and say, ‘yeah, I opened the door for Valeterisa. Tons of times. Relc too.’
Well, it wasn’t much, but Liska felt like that was the best someone like her could dream of. Getting to touch cool moments. And sometimes, see super attractive ladies walking in. Like Ieka, Onieva, or the beach garden—that had been great for Liska’s morale. It was just, again—in the inn, there were no Turnscales except Rose. The Wandering Inn did important, great things.
Just not for the people Liska knew. For everyone, not specifically…her kind.
 
——
 
“So, uh, Liska. Are you free the rest of today? I was thinking we could hit the city. You know, cruise around like the old days? You could come too, Adrerni, Liffe.”
Thaheart was as obvious as the sun. Liska rolled her eyes, and she bet Adrerni knew what the other Gnoll was trying, but he grinned and nodded because he wanted to get on Liska’s good side.
That was…obvious to Liska. Normally, she didn’t get this kind of thing, but maybe it was because she was older or not trying to impress Shashi or something? It was like working her job at the door and realizing someone was buttering her up to try to avoid the fee or get her to do something.
It was nice at first, but after, like, a hundred times it just got annoying and obvious. All that to say that Liska suddenly felt like she was seeing everything in a new light.
“I could hang. What do you all like to do? When we’re not at work, we like to catch a drink here or hit up The Drunken Gnoll or Barehoof Kitchens.”
“Whoa. You are rich. I mean, the Gnoll’s great and cheap, but you can get into Barehoof Kitchens? With that Imani and Palt? Does he sell you smokes?”
Liffe winked at Shashi.
“On the sly; if you ask for it when you’re eating there, you get in trouble. But Palt’s cool, and that [Innkeeper], Timbor, he has really cheap plates.”
“I know! The Yellat-fries are awesome. Only two coppers for a basket! I mean, sometimes they’re all crunchy and don’t have enough salt, but…”
Ulte shook his head.
“Crunchy’s the best.”
“You weirdtail. It’s better when they’re all floppy and hot!”
The, um, level of conversation wasn’t high. Shashi rolled her eyes self-importantly as she turned to Liska.
“We like hitting bars. Or playing a street-game like lleroller. But the Drunken Gnoll could be fun. Liska, you like shopping down Merchant’s Way, right?”
She was playing up things too. Lleroller was one of the games you could play in the city where you tossed a ball down the street—it was an old game, pre-soccer, and caused tons of trouble. And they didn’t usually have the coin to do more than get water and a snack at most places, let alone buy anything in Merchant’s Way.
Well, Liska had money. But she didn’t quite feel like doing any of the things mentioned. She was actually looking for Miss Hariett, who was standing behind the bar, talking to the [Bartender]. She felt like she should apologize, but everyone wanted to talk to her.
Especially her ex-girlfriend, who seemed to be trying to reverse their breakup in real time. Though she was also making eyes at Liffe…
Liska wasn’t sure Liffe was actually a Turnscale in the sense that she was into other women, though. Not that there were hard and fast rules, but she wasn’t checking out Shashi’s back or responding to the little hints.
How did you explain it? It was like Thaheart reaching for a new round being served to the table, Adrerni taking it, and when their paws brushed, grinning at Thaheart in a way that made the other Gnoll blush and go all stammery.
Liska supposed it was like flirting between non-Turnscales, but she didn’t care for that. Too many guys, Gnolls, Drakes, Humans, all trying to talk themselves up when they smelled like desperation and bad body hygiene.
“I’m, uh, gonna talk to Miss Hariett. I feel bad about that thing before. I’ll come with in just a second!”
Liska got up and walked away from the table, conscious of all the eyes on her back. She clearly heard Thaheart speaking loudly behind her.
“Let’s figure out which bar we should go to first. I mean, we should celebrate, right? Plus, Hariett’s is a dump.”
Adrerni nodded as he gulped a drink and grimaced.
“Bad swill. But we always end up getting a drink here. I guess it’s because everyone comes here.”
Hey, that was right. Liska glanced around the pub. She’d been coming to Hariett’s for a long time. Ever since she’d been a Turnscale, really. It wasn’t the cheapest, and Hariett got mad at you for being too loud. Liska had badmouthed her a lot in the past too.
So why did it feel like, if she was going anywhere, she’d start at Hariett’s? And, Liska just bet, every Turnscale in the city around her age probably knew the pub?
Well…Liska stared at Hariett as the Drake woman saw her approaching and realized Hariett was wearing long, black trousers with a tail-hole and a high-cut shirt of the same color with that slightly-ragged sleeve look that was trendy with people Liska’s age in the city.
A bit like Gothica’s outfit, but Hariett had added some fake glass sequins to her shoulders and sleeves, in the pattern of a Rock Crab and Razorbeak. Plus, Liska noticed just now, she had a glittering topaz gemstone at the end of each shoelace, replacing the aglets. They flashed a bit and were super cool.
Add in a worn, but wide belt with blue waves on it and she was actually fairly stylish! Like real style, not Nanette-style. Now, how did Liska never notice that?
In her mind, Hariett was some frumpy old Drake who yelled at everything, but she smiled when she saw Liska come over.
“Liska, right? I haven’t seen you in a while. Need another round? No more fighting, I hope.”
“No, um, I wanted to say sorry about that, again. And thanks.”
Hariett blinked at Liska and eyed the young Gnoll woman up and down.
“It’s no trouble. Just don’t let it happen again. Those Plains Silverfangs like to throw their weight around. Like Bronze-rankers. I chuckled when that fellow fell down, but you’re way too obvious about using your Skill. What was that, some kind of holding Skill?”
“Um, just door-stuff. I’m a [Doorgnoll].”
“Really? Which inn?”
When Liska told her, Hariett’s eyes widened.
“You don’t say. That’s fascinating! But The Wandering Inn—did the Goblin King really come through there? Here, have a seat for a second. Do you want another drink?”
Liska took a juice happily since it was early, and she’d already had one and a half ales. This was familiar. The incredulity, the skepticism, the inn being, well, crazy—until Hariett flipped the usual script.
“It sounds dangerous.”
“I mean, yeah, but I wasn’t doing anything. I just got in the way, and Saliss had to save me. It was all over by the time I woke up.”
The Drake woman was glancing at the [Bartender] and her staff, who were busy running the pub, as more young people that Liska vaguely recognized came in and out.
“But it’s far too dangerous for…if you need a job, I could use someone minding the doors. We have bouncers, but I could hire you or talk to some other owners I know.”
Liska blinked.
“What, quit my job? Nah, I like it at the inn.”
“You’re sure? You’re not in danger or that hard up for money? I’ve heard it has…[Necromancers] as clientele.”
The Drake woman was scrutinizing Liska hard. The younger Gnoll squirmed a bit. Hariett was oddly worried for someone Liska barely had spoken to over the years.
“Who, the Rheirgest [Necromancers]? They’re funny. I’m fine, really, Miss Hariett. I, uh, I really like your boots and shirt.”
That threw the [Pub Owner], and she blinked and then smiled.
“Thank you! I’ve got probably fifteen different shoelaces, each one with a different gemstone. And far too many shoes, come to that.”
“What, really? Do you just re-lace them every time?”
“Yes, and it’s such a pain, but it makes an impact. Not that you lot ever notice.”
Hariett’s teeth flashed, and Liska protested.
“I noticed your shirt! That’s really cool too. Someone’s got to pay attention.”
“Oh, now and then, I’ll grant you. But if I was dressing to impress people at my pub—so you’re sure you’re fine?”
Liska thought of her friends and wilted a second.
“I am. But I didn’t know Vakki was in jail and Lizze was married off. Sorry, you don’t know them, they’re—”
The [Pub Owner] glanced at Liska sharply.
“I know them. It’s tragic, of course, but Miss Lizze’s family is her family. And Vakki—it’s a twenty gold fine, you know.”
“I know.”
Liska had enough to pay for it. She was fumbling at her belt pouch when Hariett sighed.
“We’re about eight gold pieces short. I’ve had a fundraiser going on this week, but it’s just a lot of gold. There’s a get-together later…don’t worry, she’ll get out, but I’m more afraid she’s going to land herself back there the moment she’s out. Or worse. She’s desperate for Lizze, but she needs someone to sit her down and talk sense—but she won’t listen.”
That sounded like Vakki. Liska was nodding along before she frowned.
“You have to actually shake her if she’s all honed-in on Lizze. But wait, you’ve been fundraising?”
It was Hariett’s turn to bring out a jar filled with mostly copper coins, but some silvers and even gold pieces. Liska’s mouth opened.
“Thaheart never said!”
“I haven’t seen him all week. Nor your other friends. If you had anything you could contribute, it would help.”
It was Hariett’s turn to go silent as Liska pulled out eight gold coins and plonked them into the jar without a second’s hesitation. The [Bartender], a Gnoll with a mustache—it was somehow visible despite the fur on his face—turned and eyed Liska.
“Well. I’d keep a hand on your moneypouch, Miss Liska. They must pay you well enough at the inn.”
Hariett managed after a moment, and Liska shrugged self-consciously.
“I haven’t had a break in, like, ages. So I never spent my pay. If it gets Vakki out…”
“I’ll bail her out this night. However, I still need to have a word with her. It’d be easiest, actually, if I could get someone to pay the Watch for me after I change this all to gold.”
“Oh, you could get Ulte to do it. He’s used to the Merchant’s Guild.”
Hariett swivelled and glanced at the Drake that Liska was pointing at.
“Ulte. That makes sense. He’d have money, so no one would be that curious about him bailing out a friend either. Hey, Shamre, go get Ulte for me, would you? That Drake there.”
She flagged down a [Waitress] and pointed. Hariett was so…organized. It occurred to Liska she was throwing out a lot of names of her friends, but Hariett knew everyone. Weird.
So weird, but Liska’s instincts, which were admittedly not in high demand most of the time, were nagging at her. Right up until the door opened and someone walked into the pub.
“Adrerni! I knew I’d find you here. Wishdrinks is throwing an after-hours party! Come on!”
More of the [Hosts] from Wishdrinks appeared, the older employees. Who were—Liska turned her head, and her jaw dropped.
“Drake’s Ancestors.”
Do you remember the beach day from The Wandering Inn? The grand hour of relaxation, surf, and fun?
For some, it had never ended. The [Hosts] that Erin had hired to serve food and help out her staff at The Wandering Inn had taken their lessons from that time and decided to make it core to their identity.
Or how else did you explain a pair of Drakes wearing swimsuits walking in out of the rain as if that was normal apparel? Both had glossy scales like they had suntan lotion applied, and the female Drake had on a bikini top and bottom, Earth-style, in bright blue. Her co-worker had on a pair of swimsuit trunks and his hands in his pockets.
And a six-pack. Liska gave his stomach exactly 0.1 seconds of attention. Her eyes were on the [Hostess], who was waving at Adrerni.
The entire table shot to their feet and practically dashed over; Thaheart, Shashi, Ulte, the others no one was going to miss this. Liska took a huge gulp from her Prelon juice drink.
“Pull my tail, she’s got scales for days.”
There were visible muscles under the swimsuit hostess’ scales, and she grabbed Adrerni. Liska could see all her back muscles moving as she towed him to the party. Hariett muttered behind Liska.
“She’s got to be cold in the rain and this weather. But you won’t catch me complaining.”
“Mhm. I’d go swimming with her even in Liscor’s waters.”
“Or apply that suntan. I’d fight for that honor.”
The [Bartender] murmured. All three of them watched the group heading out the door in a chaos of laughter and excitement as a crowd followed, clearly trying to win themselves an invite too, and Liska realized two things.
Firstly—her friends had utterly forgotten about her and left her behind.
Secondly? She turned and saw Hariett staring at the [Hostess]’ tail as it vanished out of the door, and Liska realized the obvious. Hariett was a Turnscale. Her jaw dropped, and the [Pub Owner] gave her a frown.
“What? Oh, drat, Ulte’s gone! Argh, I’ll do it myself. What, am I drooling?”
She wiped at her mouth, and Liska burst out.
“Miss Hariett! You’re a—you’re like us?”
She glanced at the [Bartender], and she saw him blink, then grin. Hariett’s face went blank as her eyes flicked around Liska, then she leaned forwards and smiled.
“Miss Liska. Do I look like I run this bar with you silly little kids just for fun? You don’t pay that well, you know. And I hear those comments about my ale!”
Then Liska saw her, and the world seemed to open up again. What she had taken for granted became something deeper. And with respect to very attractive people wearing swimsuits and free drinks and a party—
Far more interesting.
 
——
 
Hariett and Liska sat at a corner of the bar and talked as younger folk came in and out of the bar. Gossiping, trying to scrounge money together, arguing over this fad or that, talking about what they’d seen on television or the latest trend—and paying no attention to the owner or Liska, really.
Some had on black makeup in the new goth style. Others were flashing autographed cards or the latest things from Pallass, Invrisil, which they’d paid to visit.
One was an Antinium with a backwards baseball hat with two holes for an antennae and a posse of very protective teenagers who were thirteen to fourteen. Liska stared at them all and realized she had never paid attention to the fact that it was this place where they came, and it was Hariett who saw it all and made so much happen.
“Of course it’s mostly just younger people here, at least in the day. At nights, I get an older crowd.”
“And they’re all Turnsc—”
Hariett put a claw on Liska’s hand.
“We don’t use that word here, Liska. Ever.”
“What? But he’s cool, right?”
Liska glanced at the [Bartender] and most of the people here…but Hariett’s face was friendly, eyes glancing around, and warning.
“We don’t do it. Hasn’t anyone ever given you the talk?”
“Um, well, maybe? About being a…us?”
Liska vaguely remembered, and Hariett sighed.
“Maybe someone has, but it’s all more informal here. And I don’t have the time nor do I have perfect eyes for it. My pub’s just a place where young people gather, and if there are more than most like—us—then it’s because of my Skills. [Advertisement: Safe Space]. So long as I keep it active, people know to come here. I do my best to make sure it’s true as well. Hence how I dealt with that Silverfang back there and sometimes other matters. I do fundraisers for people like Miss Vakki and try to help out. It’s never enough, but here we are, Liska. I’ve run Hariett’s for nine years now, ever since the last Antinium War.”
Oh! Was that why Liska always thought to go to Hariett’s? Certainly, she’d never felt unwelcome for being a Turnscale. She blinked at Hariett, wide-eyed.
“But why are you doing all that for us? I mean, it’s great, but we don’t pay really well, and I know you get mad at us.”
The question seemed to perplex the [Pub Owner]. She sat back at her bar and then smiled, rueful.
“Why…? Because everyone does their part, Liska. No one gave you that talk about community, did they? No, you’re old enough that maybe it was when we were rebuilding after Az’kerash. And as I said, Liscor’s far less organized than other cities. It doesn’t need to be.”
She sighed.
“Well, it’s so huge these days I don’t know who’s with us. When I hear about Pallass, I get nervous. It reminds me of Hectval.”
“Hectval? The war?”
“Hm? No, I moved from there. Hectval is far less pleasant for us, Liska. Believe you me.”
This conversation was a wealth of information. Liska’s head spun.
“So…you’re doing this for us, and you knew about Vakki, and—”
“It’s not just me. I’m one of a community. Just like I said, Liska. You kids get to run around and have fun, mostly. But I think you’re someone I’d better catch up to speed. When you have gold, influence, or levels, it’s important to understand how to help.”
“Who?”
Hariett waved her foreclaw around in a circle.
“Everyone like us. Or do you think this kind of a place springs up without a lot of work?”
Liska didn’t know what to think. In hindsight, it made sense there could be adult Turnscales. But Hariett was describing an actual community, and Liska burst out, upset.
“I don’t remember anyone bailing me out of prison when I was in trouble, just Ishkr and my friends! And this pub isn’t that safe or great!”
To that response, Hariett’s face was pained, and she took a deep breath before replying.
“I know, and I’m sorry, but we don’t have unlimited amounts of money, and being careful is very, very important, Liska. We older folk try to keep our noses clean. It’s easier to be young. And, well, again. If you think this isn’t pleasant, believe me, it’s far worse in other cities.”
That, Liska could believe.
 
——
 
People didn’t talk about Turnscales. It was a dirty topic, a dirty word.
Someone called you that and you had to walk over and punch them. It was worse than being called an idiot, slow-witted, weak, a coward. It was worse, in a way, than being a deviant.
Just what a Turnscale was? Liska wasn’t sure if other people knew, but if someone thought you were one, then they got unpleasant. It was one thing for someone to shout at you, call you names.
When multiple people did it, you were almost relieved to see a Watch officer coming your way. And the fear was that they’d remember you and you were marked. Like a tattoo, a blemish. For being wrong. Disgusting.
There were rules for being a Turnscale in Liscor. Ones that Hariett had reminded Liska of.
 
-Never say you’re a Turnscale. Never admit it, never use the word in public. It’s just ‘us’, ‘the community’, ‘our perspective’, and so on.
-Under no circumstances should you ever reveal someone is a Turnscale to a non-Turnscale. Even to other Turnscales, only do it if you’re very, very sure and for a good reason.
-Always know at least three people you can turn to in times of trouble. Check in on them at least once a week, covertly.
-Support one another as best you can. Someone gives you something? Pay it back. Nothing’s for free with us. We have to contribute.
-Be careful.
 
It was a different world. When Liska left Hariett’s and wandered past Wishdrinks, she found Shashi, Thaheart, Ulte, and the others all drunk and having a great time. They were inviting her to keep the party going, but she just mumbled something about having to go and check on her dishes.
There are more of us? Hariett had sworn there were, but she’d refused to even tell Liska names.
“Just come back tomorrow around this time, alright? I’ll invite someone.”
“Can I bring someone with me?”
Hariett had hesitated.
“…Of course. Just as long as they’re sensible and discreet. And thank you for helping with Vakki. I’ll do my best to get her out tonight and make sure she understands how things are.”
How things are. As in, Lizze was getting married in another city, and that was that. The two [Lovers] were never going to see each other again. And…some male Drake or Gnoll would be leaving with Vakki, and she’d have to have babies and pretend that was normal.
That made Liska feel physically unwell. She went back to her and Ishkr’s apartment and lay down in her creaking bed.
Six minutes later, it began to drip on her head. Liska sat up and groaned. Then eyed a bulge in the ceiling.
“Great. Leaks.”
When she hammered on the [Landlord]’s door and he poked his head out and she told him there was a leak in her room, and probably the apartment above, he grumbled about low rent and told her to make space for him. So she had to clear her and Ishkr’s bedding and help him shove the bedframe aside, and he had to see if the people above were even in to fix whatever was seeping the water. By that time, Liska had had enough.
“Just lock the door when you’re done. I’m gonna go…somewhere else.”
Lacking a bed here, there was only one sensible option, right?
The Wandering Inn. She did have rooms there, and they were a lot nicer than her apartment. She didn’t know why she and Ishkr even kept the darn thing. Now that they had gold…Liska felt at her money pouch, but she didn’t know what to spend it on. So she just went to what she knew.
 
——
 
Shivertail Plaza was a mess of people waiting in lines, shouting at the Watch, and so backed up Liska stared.
“Hey, what happened to the door?”
It was never this bad. Had it malfunctioned or something? She wanted to push past the lines, but the Watch officer snapped at her.
“No cutting the line, Miss! The door is broken; the inn is working to fix it, but it will take some time! Please step back!”
“But I work there. I’m the [Doorgnoll].”
The Drake [Guardswoman] didn’t recognize Liska, but someone else did. Guardswoman Jerci was waving her arms and shouting, and when she saw Liska, the Gnoll guard practically dashed over in the rain.
“Liska! Why isn’t the door working?”
“I don’t know. I’m on break!”
“You’re on—can you fix it?”
“Um…maybe?”
They watched as Liska stumped over to the door and put a paw on it. It wasn’t set to Liscor, so the door was just an empty patch of air. Liska shrugged.
“Someone’s on the other side and using it.”
“You can tell?”
Jerci was around Liska’s age, but she was a [Guardswoman] and had on leather armor, a baton, sword, and all kinds of gear on her belt, and looked, well, adult-like. Liska in her casual outfit felt like a kid, but she shrugged again.
“I mean, sure. It’s not my door; it’s Erin’s Skill. But you can sort of feel where it’s connecting to. Like, there are a bunch of openings all over, and you just have to connect it to the right one. Obviously, the real [Door of Portals] is at the center. Looks like it’s in…Pallass.”
It was far enough away, and she recognized the direction, even though when she used her senses, there weren’t any cardinal directions. Jerci stared at Liska.
“Well, if we wait for it to open…”
“What? Oh, no, I figure I could open it. I’m just waiting for them to finish on Pallass’ side. No, wait, I forgot! Silly me.”
Liska smacked her forehead with the palm of her paw.
“[Door: Doubled Gateway]. Let me just—oh wow.”
She opened the door to The Wandering Inn and recoiled at the press of bodies. The door split in the air, and Jerci and the other [Guards] leapt back. They could see…people walking through Pallass’ door on the left side! The Pallassians recoiled as Liska split the doorway in half, but she just hopped through.
“Hey, Xinthe, hey, Asgra, what’s going on here?”
Twenty members of staff were in the portal room, shouting, placing down wooden stands and connecting them with pieces of rope to form lines, and no one was lying on her couch. Liska saw a harried Calanferian woman whirl.
“Liska? Oh, Eternal Throne—help!”
“What’s wrong with the door?”
It felt fine. Liska didn’t sense anything wrong with the wood or framework, and the magic was running a bit low, but she didn’t see why it was so backed up. Xinthe pointed desperately.
“We can’t funnel people in and out fast enough! They keep getting in each other’s ways, and we have to collect the fee or they can’t enter, and the door keeps running out of mana, and—”
Liska blinked in astonishment as the litany of complaints ran on and on. Then she held up a paw.
“Um, what if I just help for a second? It’s pretty easy for me. Like…you have to line them up by city, see? Hey! Who here is going towards…Invrisil?”
Liska shouted, and the long line of people revealed multiple hands scattered around. She pointed.
“Stand there!”
“But we’re first in line for—”
Ah, here was the problem that Xinthe had dealt with. Liska demonstrated the optimal technique by covering her ears with her paws.
“Shut up! It’s too loud! Stand over there or you won’t go anywhere! [Form a Line]! [Get in Line]! Shut up! [Orderly Conduct] or I’ll have Asgra eat you!”
The power of her Skills activated, and people left the line, ducking under the ropes to form a line to Invrisil. Xinthe’s jaw dropped, and Asgra held up a hand.
“Liska. I don’t wanna eat him. He look pretty unhealthy.”
“Sure, Asgra. Line to Celum there! Door to Invrisil—open!”
The dial spun, and the door opened, revealing a very angry crowd who began to push forwards.
“We’re late for—”
The people in front slammed into a [Forcewall], which Liska used to shove them back. Then she conjured a second on the other side.
“Everybody to Invrisil—get out! Wait your turn until they exit! You don’t wait, you don’t get in! And have your money! No, I don’t know how much it is, read the stupid sign!”
When the people began to file in, Liska turned to Xinthe.
“Okay, where’s the money go?”
She was pointed towards a bowl, and Liska nodded. Then she began waving people in, and they strode through, fast as could be.
“But the fee—”
They were tossing it in the bowl as they came without missing a beat. [Collect Fee]. One person clearly tried not to pay; they ran into an invisible wall at the door, and Liska shouted.
“Get out of line if you can’t pay! [Filtered Entry], dumbasses! Next—Riverfarm on the left, Celum on the right!”
The door split in twain. [Door: Doubled Gateway]. Liska sighed as she had to remind the idiots, again, which side was which. After a moment, she dragged over one of the poles and slung a rope between it and another, creating a dividing line.
“I guess we do need signs and waiting spots. We could do that one for Liscor, that for—”
Rather to her surprise, her vague ideas of organization became reality as Xinthe and the others ran to get ladders and hammer the signs up. Asgra herself came sprinting back with paint and began marking the floors.
“Hey, this place is gross.”
Liska realized there was mud everywhere and stuff. She kicked at an actual mud-slime someone had tracked in on their boot. She pointed, and something appeared in front of the [Door of Portals].
“[Doormat of Cleanliness]. Who got rid of…oh, wait, that’s my Skill. Wow, how do you do this without Skills, Xinthe?”
She turned, and the panting Calanferian had no idea. Even with organization, there was no beating Liska’s Skills.
For instance, without [Door: Oversized Transportation], getting a wagon through the [Door of Portals] was all but impossible unless you deconstructed it and hauled it through piece-by-piece. The portals to Celum and Riverfarm were draining mana rapidly. Liska yawned, then slapped the doorframe.
“[Item: Replenish Charges]! Right, I think that’s doing it.”
She went over to her couch and lay on it, sighing. She hadn’t even had to enchant the door with her new Skills. Liska cleared out all the people waiting for service, and after thirty minutes, things were back to normal, more or less. Only then did Lyonette come striding into the room.
“Xinthe, I think I’ve solved the mana crisis. I managed to get Valeterisa to agree to lend Montressa to recharge the door with Magus Grimalkin. They’re not happy, but—what happened here? Liska?”
“Oh, hey, Lyonette. I heard you had problems and…”
Liska sat up on her couch, and Lyonette stared at her. Then the Gnoll remembered.
“Aw. I’m supposed to be on break!”
Xinthe and the other employees shrank a bit as Lyonette exhaled. Then put on a strained smile.
“Well, you’re due at least another day. Why don’t we get you something to eat, Liska? Thank you so much for helping clear this up. And, er, let’s talk about organization.”
 
——
 
Liska did speculate about how to make the portal room more efficient with Lyonette over some very lovely lunch. Then it was evening, so she wandered back to Liscor, stuck her head out of the door, and stared at all the damn rain.
“Um…maybe Pallass?”
 
——
 
The [Guards] at the checkpoint asked if she had a passport or day-pass. Liska gazed at them and turned.
“Okay, Invrisil?”
Belatedly, one of the Pallassian security guards recognized Liska. Captain Kel nearly kicked his way out of the office, but she was already gone, so he chewed out the guards on duty for ten whole minutes.
 
——
 
Invrisil was nice. Dry. Busy. Liska walked out of their checkpoint and peered around. She felt at her belt pouch, eyed the gold in her bag of holding.
“Huh. Wow.”
 
——
 
That night, Liska came back to the inn loaded with souvenirs and considerably less gold. She had gifts for all her friends. A trendy parasol for Shashi, some really good fur cream for Thaheart, some awesome boots for Ulte since he hated anything from his father’s Guild in Liscor—
And for her friends in the inn!
“Hey, Nanette, look at this awesome hat I found.”
Liska handed Nanette a hat shaped like a cartoonish lightning bolt. Nanette instantly put it on. Mrsha eyed her sister, but accepted the latest installment of Tales of Adventure and Woe with alacrity. Inkpaper, the Goblin [Librarian], rubbed his claws as Liska gave him a second book.
“This is from Heartslayi…”
“Ugh, Inkpaper, that’s trash!”
Nanette complained as she checked out her hat in a mirror, and Inkpaper grinned.
“Yah, but is good trash.”
Asgra got a gigantic sugar lollipop she gleefully bit into; caramelized brown sugar and black sugar from Noelictus and just…sugar…in various colors. Liska had eaten two, and she felt vaguely sick.
It was a fun time out! Ishkr rolled his eyes, but accepted a random apple she’d bought him.
“You have some money left after all that, I hope, Liska?”
“Yeah, tons! I didn’t even use the money in my guild bank account. Which I have. Did you know that, Ishkr?”
“Yes. I told you about it.”
“Oh, well…good for you. Idiot.”
The [Doorgnoll] did feel a bit empty after all that despite the fun she’d had. She wished she could have gone out with Shashi.
Now how am I gonna find a girlfriend? That was her usual life goal when she’d broken up with someone, but she had work, and it was going to be hard to date…
Oh, right, I have tomorrow off. And she’d go to Miss Hariett’s. Liska searched around for the person she wanted to talk to.
“Anyone know where Rose is?”
Rosencrantz was trying to figure out how to use the yoyo she’d bought him.
“Pallass. She’s always there these days.”
“Darn. Do you think she’d be back tonight? And, uh, is my room open? Because I don’t wanna sleep in the apartment. Ishkr, there’s a leak.”
He groaned.
“Did you at least tell the [Landlord]?”
He seemed shocked when she assured him she had and even had arranged for it to be fixed. Rosencrantz, in turn, guaranteed Liska her room was all made up, but opined that Rose might be in late.
Well, Liska had only been going to go out to find her friends again and apologize for going off like that. She went to the bar and ordered a drink.
“Can I get a…Velrusk Claw and some peanuts?”
Peggy served her the drinks, thanking Liska for the bottle of perfume, and the Gnoll sat there, sipping on her drink and munching on her snacks. Another night at the inn where she was content. Even if her thoughts strayed towards Vakki.
Orrell…could she help him? But no one even knew where he was. How could you…?
What about the [World’s Eye Theater]? Liska’s eyes strayed towards the door to that room, but before she could make up her mind, she heard a pair of arguing voices.
“Listen, Lyonette, this is a genuine crisis if the door doesn’t work tomorrow.”
“It was temporary, Zevara! I know it was an issue, but we can’t always be perfect, and given the amount of people we transport daily—why are you being sent to harass us about it?”
Watch Captain Zevara herself followed Lyonette into the common room of the inn. The Watch Captain raised her claws.
“I’m not accusing you. I’m just asking if it’ll happen again tomorrow. Is Liska sick or something?”
She peered around and spotted Liska. When Lyonette explained it was Liska’s day off, Zevara muttered.
“I’m going to write to Venim and say that’s a ‘yes’, then.”
Lyonette bristled.
“We have systems in place for tomorrow!”
“Uh-huh. Thank you for your time, Miss Marquin. Oh, come on, Lyonette. That was a joke! I have to do my job, and this was a legitimate issue! Don’t be sour; I know I let you down with the choir thing, but I don’t sing. You don’t want me smogging up everything when I cough…”
Strife was had. Liska watched with urbane amusement as Lyonette went to check on Tessa, and Zevara ended up taking a seat at a table. Asgra sidled over, the go-to for the ‘interesting’ guests.
“Hey, Watch Captain, you want food?”
“Well, as long as I’m here, I might as well. I’ve got half a loaf of moldy bread in the cupboard.”
“Hmm. I can see if we got some here?”
“…No, no. Give me a Boar’s Dinner pizza, would you? And, uh, what’s an Apista Buzzkiller?”
Asgra brightened up as Liska grabbed the drinks menu.
“Oh, that. That my invention! It one shot tequila, one splash of flower wine—not Faerie Flowers, we out of those forever—peach juice, and a little cigar stick you light and it smokes. Very fragrant.”
“Huh. Give me a Firebreath Whiskey, would you?”
The full scowl that Zevara got made Liska laugh so hard the Watch Captain looked around. Liska waved at Asgra.
“I’ll take a Buzzkiller, Asgra!”
The Cave Goblin beamed at her and ran off to get her patented drink. Liska sat at the bar and realized she could eat an actual dinner despite all the snacks she’d had in Invrisil. After a moment, she saw someone come to sit at the bar out of the corner of her eye.
Watch Captain Zevara put her pizza down and glanced at Liska before clearing her throat and accepting her whiskey. Asgra put down the very odd drink, and then someone buzzed down and nabbed the fake spliff.
Apista landed on the bar and smoked on it next to Liska and Zevara as Liska asked for a Golden Hamburger. And then the three were sitting together.
“It was a rainy night in Liscor. But then, what night wasn’t? I was sitting at the bar with a pizza loaded with most of a boar’s insides in front of me. Prettier than the crime scenes I’ve had to wade through. The dame next to me was some kind of door-person. She liked to make people disappear. Since they reappeared in other cities, she wasn’t on my list. But then again, maybe I had a reason to talk to her.”
Liska stopped sipping on her drink and vaguely felt like she should be wearing a bowler hat and that Apista’s smoke was a hazy cloud wafting through the bar. Zevara stopped gulping down her drink, and her eyes narrowed. She turned.
“Noiraid, do you frequent this inn?”
A certain Antinium with a new purse, and a cigar of her own blew a smoke ring as she sat at a table with a bunch of other Workers and Bird.
“I locked eyes with an attractive lady of the insectile kind at another table. We were meeting in a half-decent place, for once, not my office or the streets, dripping with tension. I told myself tonight was the night I bought her a drink and we saw what happened from there. But maybe I didn’t have the courage. The last time I’d seen her, I was flat on my back, and she gave me a moment to remember.”
Everyone turned to stare at Zevara, and the Watch Captain’s face went flat.
“You healed me with a scroll after I was run over. I realize, factually, you’re close to the truth, but I resent the insinuations.”
Liska was giggling nonstop into her drink, and the Watch Captain clearly realized that the best way to survive this encounter was to ignore Noiraid and pretend the Antinium wasn’t narrating things out loud.
“Er, hello, Liska.”
“I didn’t do anything!”
Liska automatically replied, and Zevara exhaled some smoke.
“You’re not in trouble, Liska. Quite the contrary. This morning was a mess. Proof of how essential you are in your job. Nevermind that; I was just here to inquire, and Venim can sort out the rest. He’s in charge.”
She smiled at that thought, and Liska nodded. She did like being the person not in charge when the poo hit the windstorm spell. She saw Zevara chewing down on her pizza.
“Um, how’s the new job? Sorry again about letting Moass and Hissl through the door.”
She felt vaguely bad about that, but it had all worked out, and Zevara shrugged.
“So far? Nothing worth talking about. Lots of paperwork, setting up how things will work. Everyone wants me to investigate crimes in their city, but we need to sort out jurisdiction, how things will work. Lots of passports and documents. But I have a few offers already.”
She appeared better, excited about the future. Liska nodded a few times.
“Great.”
“Mhm. Speaking of which, I was wondering if you gave any thought to my request.”
“What? Sure, absolutely. No problem. Uh…what was it again?”
Zevara sighed.
“The request where I asked to see what your…what the, uh, what Turnscales were like?”
She lowered her voice, and Liska’s fur prickled as she recalled. The Gnoll hesitated.
“Oh, darn. This was my day off, and that would have been perfect…”
Zevara wore a pained expression.
“I can look into the matter myself. I was just hoping you had some insight.”
Well, maybe Liska did. But she felt annoyed by the request, uncertain, just like she had when Zevara made it last time. Plus, she no longer had a girlfriend, so she snapped.
“Maybe you should have asked me that all the times you had me arrested.”
A huge sigh from Zevara.
“I know it’s not ideal, but Liska, I’m pursuing my investigation—”
“Investigation to decide if we’re criminals?”
“Alright, it’s touchy. I’ll leave off. Sorry.”
The Drake lifted her claws, and Liska felt bad for snapping at Zevara—until she thought of Vakki. Then she frowned.
“One question. If someone has a big fine and they’re in jail, and it gets paid off, can they get out without trouble?”
Zevara’s eyes flickered.
“…Depends on the fine. If it was levied, it sounds like someone committed a crime but it’s within range of being a monetary offense as opposed to a jailable felony. In that case, you pay it off and maybe you have a mark on your record, but you walk free. If it’s murder or a serious crime, you can’t get out of it with money. So yes, pay it off and it should be fine. Someone you know?”
“A friend of mine. I don’t suppose you can help with that?”
Zevara instantly shook her head.
“I can’t compromise the law for any reason, Liska.”
“Yeah, sure. Then you can eat my tail.”
“Liska…”
The Gnoll girl got up and headed over to a separate table. Asgra, who’d gone over to the bar, threw up her hands.
“Stop moving around!”
Liska sulkily ate the gold-themed burger with mustard on it, then cleared out of the common room. She went to the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Show me…Orrell.”
It revealed a Gnoll sweeping up at an inn with mostly Humans around. Liska perked up, and she tried to stare around the inn. Then she made the Skill zoom out and realized the inn wasn’t even that far away.
Wait a second, this is Invrisil! I must have let Orrell through and never saw him! The inn was called Hoplic’s Stand. It didn’t seem like a great part of the city, but Liska was excited. She could go get him or…
No, wait, she didn’t know what to do. Didn’t his family know he was a Turnscale? She had to talk to someone.
Liska hurried back into the common room and wrote down the name of the inn. Then she saw a young woman enter the room and turn everyone’s head.
“Whoa. Is that you, Rose?”
For some reason, the young woman was super attractive tonight. Maybe it was the Drake illusion she shed or the fragrance she was wearing, and she had a pretty-revealing outfit on, but one that looked classy. She threw herself down at a table.
“Hey, Liska! I had a big night. Didn’t get drugged out of my mind this time, so there’s that. But there’s this Garuda who keeps harassing me, and the other girls keep calling me ‘rookie’…Inkpaper said you wanted to talk. What’s up?”
She smiled at Liska. They didn’t really know each other, but Liska leaned over as Watch Captain Zevara sat at the bar, nursing her drink.
“Well…I met someone cool in Liscor today. And she said she wants to talk to me and introduce me to, y’know, people like us. The community?”
Rose’s slightly drunken expression turned sharp at once. She scooted her chair forwards.
“The community? I don’t know Liscor’s at all. I mean, I know you know.”
“Not much. I just know people my age, but—can you come with me? Please? It’s at lunch, Hariett’s pub.”
“Lunch? Sure. Absolutely. In fact, I’d love to make some inroads. I’ll see if I can invite them to meet some people I know in Pallass.”
Rose was instantly excited, and Liska exhaled. She sort of wanted to know what the Earther thought of Turnscales anyways. Rose smiled, and that was that. Liska stretched and then went up to sleep, happy. She had something to do on her day off after all!
She’d only made one mistake. Relaxing in The Wandering Inn, which was currently impossible to find by anyone not on the guest list, and surrounded by friends, Liska hadn’t kept her guard up.
Be careful. What Hariett had warned her of still hadn’t been hammered home to Liska, for all she’d seen. The next day proved that, indeed, things could be worse.
 
——
 
At first, it went well. The moment Hariett saw Rose enter the pub and turn every head, her brows rose.
“Excuse me, Miss? Whatever you’re doing, I need you to turn that down at least two levels.”
Rose blushed.
“Sorry, Miss Hariett. It happens if I don’t concentrate. Rose. Lovely to meet you.”
She was very respectful to Miss Hariett, and the Drake shot Liska a glance.
“Someone else from that inn?”
“She stays there, yeah. I thought she could hear whatever you wanted to tell us. And meet…whomever we’re meeting.”
Liska felt awkward as she sat and was served some juice again. Hariett nodded, glancing around the pub. People were coming in and out as per usual, though Liska didn’t see her friends. Knowing them, they were nursing hangovers and not rich enough to buy a hangover cure.
“Do I need to give you the same talk I did to Liska, Rose? Where are you from?”
“Oh, I’m from out west, Miss Hariett. I was pretty naïve when I came here to how things were, but believe me, I’ve had a talking to. A good sentry and an excellent architect took me in hand.”
Rose spoke casually, and Liska tilted her head. Sentry? Architect? She didn’t think Rose was referring to the classes, but Hariett’s eyes lit up.
“Very good. From here?”
“No, Pallass.”
“Pallass. That’s…far higher stakes over there, I’ve been told.”
Rose took a breath.
“Oh, yes. It is. I’m doing my bit, but I’m a rookie, and I’d love to hear more about Liscor’s particulars. In fact, I think the guy who mentors me would love to know. Even meet you?”
She floated that one out, and Hariett visibly hesitated.
“Now there’s something I didn’t expect. I may actually accept so I can report back. Not my friend, though. He’s very shy. And I trust you two are being discreet?”
“I didn’t say anything to anyone but Rose.”
Liska defended herself, and Rose nodded. Hariett focused on their faces, then smiled.
“Good. You’re understanding. Well, it’s because you two are at the inn that I’m making this introduction. Remember, this is life or death. Understand?”
She got their nods before she walked them to a backroom behind the bar. After heading down a tight corridor, they opened a break room and were introduced to the new contact for Liska and Rose. Who turned out to be—
“Councilmember Elirr?”
The Gnoll [Beast Tamer] and member of Liscor’s current Council smiled as he hugged Liska and Rose. He grinned at her expression.
“Not for much longer if I lose my election, yes? It might make it easier to be helpful, though.”
Hariett instantly objected as she closed and locked the door.
“You’re the most helpful where you are, Elirr. No one else can advocate for us! I wish I’d known last election or I’d have gotten more people to vote for you. Not that you needed it. But this election, everyone in your district who knows what’s what is coming out to vote.”
He nodded to her.
“One wishes we could do a citywide election instead of districts. Ah, well. Sit, you two. I am not someone who often introduces themselves to young people as a mentor or point of contact. But for you two, it is needed, yes? I should have reached out to you, Rose. But you were a bit…”
“Loose-lipped? Unserious? Too casual about matters of life-and-death?”
Rose grinned and adjusted her seat as she sat. She had, Liska noticed, a rather big butt.
As in…bigger than normal. Almost like Rose had something hidden in her posterior region. Like…Liska frowned.
A diaper? That’d be a terrible thing. Liska shook her head as Elirr smiled gently.
“Well, yes to all that. I feared you would learn the hard way. Not that Liscor is particularly bad there, but…let’s start from the beginning. I can see someone’s had a word with you, Rose. But Liska, no one ever talked to you?”
Liska shifted as all eyes fell to her.
“I mean, maybe? I was thinking, and maybe some adults wanted to talk to me, but I probably thought they were hitting on me or trying to rat me out for being a—a you-know-what. Elirr used to help bail me out but I thought that was just ‘cause we were both Silverfangs and he’s nice.”
Elirr was slightly amused by the comment. He coughed.
“Liska, I do not wish to embarrass you, but we did meet during the beach event at Erins’ inn. She made an entire…place for people like us. Did that not clue you in? We even had a passphrase for anyone like us to go through.”
Hariett blinked then gave Liska an accusatory look. Liska hesitated and her mouth dropped open.
“I remember that! I just thought it was super-cool people like that Onieva and Mirn. Erin did that for us? I…”
Rose slapped her forehead and Elirr grinned, and that made Liska stare at her paws, embarrassed. Because that was the Liska experience alright, that her brother sometimes complained about. Liska didn’t pay attention. She didn’t ‘get’ important things going on because she didn’t pay attention.
Well, she was trying now. Hariett sighed as she nodded to Liska.
“Young people missing the community is all too common. Clearly, no one’s spoken to Vakki either. She was going to haul off and try and break Lizze out. Or stab Lizze’s father to death.”
Elirr winced, but nodded at Liska.
“Thank you for helping pay for her fine, Liska. I would have put money in to cover it before the deadline, but it is hard.”
“I’ve, um, got more gold. I can give it whenever there’s a problem. Tons!”
Miss Hariett’s brows rose, but she held out a claw.
“Give me what you can spare, Liska, and I’ll put it away for moments like these. I won’t squander it, I swear.”
Liska all but emptied her coin pouch, and Rose eyed Hariett.
“No offense, but do you have any bona fides, Miss Hariett? I want to trust everyone, but I’ve heard of there being predatory members of the community.”
Liska bit her tongue. That was a heck of a thing to say to Hariett! But Elirr just nodded approvingly.
“Good. I vouch for Miss Hariett. And she’ll report what Liska did to the others when we meet. No names; we try to avoid knowing too much. But we do keep records.”
“Oh, good. Sorry, Miss Hariett. It’s just that my person says…”
“He sounds like an excellent Sentry, Miss Rose. No offense taken.”
Liska stuck up a paw.
“Excuse me, what’s a Sentry?”
Everyone re-focused on her, and Elirr nodded and smoothed his greying fur out.
“Let me start from the beginning, Liska, with apologies. The simplest way to say things is that in Drake society, people who find themselves outcast or who cannot share who they are easily…form communities. They must, to survive. Not just for fear of being found out, but because it is hard for us, yes? Community provides comfort, monetary help, assistance in many forms. But we must be secret and organized. So there are ranks within our communities.”
Hariett put in quickly.
“Nothing so fancy as how the Watch or military does it. Most of us are just…people getting by. But there are three types to know. Masons, Sentries, and Architects. Someone who builds up the community by helping individuals out—that’s a Mason. I’m one of them. Someone who protects people from harm, who takes the big risks to protect people in active danger—that’s a Sentry. We don’t have many of those in Liscor. The last is the person who’s trying to advance something for us as a whole. Big picture stuff. Ever since Elirr became a Councilmember, that’s him.”
The Gnoll nodded as Liska’s jaw dropped, trying to process all this.
“Not that I can do much overtly. We must be careful, cautious, and unified. But that is what we are, Liska.”
“So you adults have been looking out for us?”
But where were you when the Watch was after us? As if she could read Liska’s mind and the hurt on the Gnoll’s face, Hariett hung her head.
“We can watch out, but we’re afraid to trust young folk a lot of the time, Liska. You do talk—and if a scared kid is forced to confess by their family or the Watch? We have to be careful. For you, it’s an arrest and fine. For us? We lose everything if we’re found out. It’s being shunned, exiled, or worse.”
“Lynch mobs. I thought that this world couldn’t be that bad, not with so many species and monsters and stuff. Not with all this magic. Why’d it have to be the same as Earth in this area? Worse.”
Rose murmured. Elirr’s brows rose.
“You come from a third community we don’t know, Miss Rose. I would like to hear of this, yes? But first, Hariett said you were in Pallass?”
“That’s right. I know one of the top Sentries there. I’d like to invite Hariett to a party he hosts regularly. A moving bar.”
Hariett whistled.
“Risky. Do they not have a permanent place…? No, I heard the Watch raids them. It’s far, far worse than Liscor, isn’t it?”
Rose nodded, jaw set, but miserable.
“They hate people like us there. It used to be better before Chaldion lost power, I heard. I mean, it’d still get bad at times, but right now, it’s all General Edellein, that bastard. He’s super anti-us. Because they know the bar is running, they want to find it and arrest everyone.”
Elirr rumbled as Liska stared at Rose in horror.
“I cannot go. But if Hariett goes and reports back, we’ll try to make contact. Safety is the watchword always. Now, Liska. You know Liscor well enough. And I know your friends are mostly like us. If we think we can trust them and you vouch for them, we will consider having introductions made. But as someone who was not in this community, tell us. How can we help, and where were we missing as you grew up? After Az’kerash, the entire city was chaos and the Silverfangs were just coming in. But now we have something like a community, and with all these people…”
They were getting into it and treating Liska like she was an important new member of this…this community. Liska was so confused, so oddly gratified that this even existed, she didn’t notice anything else until Rose half-shifted in her chair.
“Someone’s coming.”
Elirr fell silent at once. Hariett hooked her thumb-claws in her belt.
“I told them to leave us alone. Don’t say a word…”
Someone hammered on the door as she rose, and Liska’s heart hammered too. But the voice was from the [Barman] from yesterday.
“Hariett! Hariett! Trouble.”
“What kind?”
The Drake was tense, and the Gnoll replied, breathless.
“Watch Captain Zevara just walked into the pub. She’s wearing a cloak, but it’s obvious it’s her! She sat down, and she’s looking around! Is there a crime happening or is it…?”
Elirr’s fur was standing on end, and Rose blinked.
“Zevara? Is she hunting for us? She—she wouldn’t, right?”
It was Liska who felt a pit in her stomach open up. She cleared her throat as Hariett began asking questions.
“Oh no. I think she’s following me. Maybe she overheard us last night, Rose!”
Hariett and Elirr spun. The [Pub Owner]’s face was suddenly filled with betrayal. She staggered away from Liska.
“You brought the Watch here?”
The young Gnoll woman waved her paws frantically.
“Nononono—I didn’t! But she knew I was a you-know-what, and she wanted to know more about us. Do you think she could have overheard…?”
Hariett half-spun to Elirr.
“Elirr, you need to get out of here now!”
“I’m going, I’m going.”
He put a hood up over his head, and Hariett hissed at Liska.
“If she’s here for you, then we’ll go out there and distract her while Elirr slips out the back.”
Rose was on her feet.
“Hariett, I am so sorry, I had no idea—”
The way the others were reacting had Liska’s stomach in her boots. Hariett shot Liska a look.
“It sounds like you didn’t know, and this is exactly the thing we worry about. Liska is the one in danger. I’ll…Zevara must think you’re here to learn something. I’ll put myself out there. Have a conversation with her.”
Elirr whirled.
“Hariett, you will not!”
The Drake was hyperventilating a bit.
“She never sniffed us out before. She might just think Liska’s here to meet someone and not pay much else attention. But we can’t have her take a close look at the children. Elirr! I’m turning off the [Safe Space] Skill. That’ll keep everyone away. I’ll feel her out. Got it?”
He gave her such a grave look that Liska began to feel more alarmed. It was just Captain Zevara. She was a good person. But Hariett was trembling, and Elirr…he just took her claws with his paws.
“Cities of hate turn on your scales, Hariett. I’ll watch for you. I’m sorry—”
He moved towards the door, and Hariett stepped back, taking huge breaths.
“I’m really sorry, Hariett. I can try to get rid of Zevara. What can we do?”
Liska got up, mumbling. The [Pub Owner] shot Liska a worried smile.
“Just…hope, Liska. Not every ‘normal’ citizen wants to expose us or kill us. But they don’t understand. And we Drakes hate what we don’t understand. Just…if it goes bad, Elirr, Vakki’s at my apartment. She’s got nowhere to stay.”
She took a deep breath, and Elirr stood there, face shadowed, as Rose and Liska turned from Hariett to Elirr. And then how it was hit Liska.
This is not better for adults. It’s scarier, worse. Rose seemed like she understood. But she seemed sick. Like a nightmare she’d been told as a kid had come back and become reality.
They left the backrooms, and Elirr put a paw on the doorknob to the back entrance as he watched the three women heading to the inn. He stared out the peephole drilled in the back door, then froze.
“Oh no. Oh nononono—”
He backed up fast. Then turned and dashed after Hariett. This was far worse than they’d thought.
He feared none of them were going to make it out of here safely.
 
——
 
Hariett’s Pub. Interesting. Watch Captain Zevara wore her raincloak over her head, sitting and sipping at a cheap ale and being unobtrusive as possible.
She felt bad about this, but she had to know. Turnscales were an issue she had to settle in her mind if she took on this new role. She had weird hints she was missing pieces of the puzzle with them. She was just re-investigating the facts, here, like a good [Detective] should.
She was uncomfortable, of course. Turnscales. Deviant acts. What was the difference between arresting someone for exposing themselves in public and a Turnscale…?
I have to gather information first. Liska’s a good kid. She’s been violent towards the Watch, but she faced the Goblin King. Listen to your gut: there’s a story here.
She just hoped she could eavesdrop on this conversation she’d heard Rose and Liska talking about. Another Turnscale?
Odd. From Zevara’s memory as a [Guardswoman], Harriett’s Pub was not a bad joint at all. It wasn’t the best, but it had a younger crowd in the day and a very polite, adult one at night.
She’d never had a problem coming from here. Which, in hindsight, was a bit odd. No drunk fights, even once? No calls for the Watch for a petty [Thief] or anything else? Every establishment that served alcohol that Zevara had ever been to had needed her help at least once over the years.
But not Miss Hariett. Indeed, when Zevara saw Liska, Rose, and Hariett stepping out of the back rooms, she casually sat back in her chair.
Liska and Rose are pretty young. If Miss Hariett’s a…could she be dragging them down into something nefarious? Criminal types did that all the time. Corruption classes and Skills. Nasty stuff.
Of course, Zevara knew Turnscales. Everyone denied being one; you’d get someone admitting to being in a gang before that. They were low on her tail-kicking list, but that was just because she’d grown up battling Soot’s gangs and the like, who did kill people.
Turnscales. Senior Guardswoman Zevara could have given a lecture to some rookies on the subject. Turnscales were all racketeering. Trafficking too.
Old, predatory creeps—either gender—who you had to catch dragging some innocent kid into a life working as a [Prostitute]. She’d arrested a decent number of those. Could Liska be in danger? This was why it was important for Zevara to follow her; she might just be a kid who liked kissing other girls, but there was danger here, Zevara knew.
But Hariett’s bar. Could Hariett be…? No, Zevara had no proof. And she didn’t want to believe nefarious things about anyone. She just didn’t know what this all was. However, she watched out of the corner of her eye as the three whispered, and then Liska strode over. Act natural. Keep your cover. Wait, was Liska—
“Watch Captain, what are you doing?”
Liska grabbed Zevara and began shaking her repeatedly. Zevara rattled around in her chair.
“Argh. How’d you find me? I was just—I’m just investigating, Liska! I had to! You’re my only lead!”
“You’re as obvious as Apista stealing a burger! Everyone can see a [Guardswoman] a mile away! Look, everyone’s leaving!”
Actually, Zevara had wondered why all the young people were giving her the side-eye, and there had been a definite shift towards people waving for the bill. She protested.
“I’m not trying to arrest or get anyone in trouble! This is a fact-finding mission, Liska. If you’d cooperated—”
“Wow. So we’re in trouble because we’re not bending over backwards to help you? Also, who investigates people without anything to hide? I’m beginning to think Kevin’s stance on cops is right.”
Rose was just as hostile as Liska as she slid into a chair at the table. Zevara hesitated.
“I’m just…educating myself.”
“By spying on people? Is that lawful?”
Somehow, the Watch Captain felt like she’d stepped on a landmine spell. Why the hell are you being so defensive? She wanted to snap that at the two young women. People who weren’t guilty shouldn’t act like they had something to hide! She bared her teeth.
“Listen. If things were all above-board, you’d be willing to sit down and give me a basic run-down on what I need to know. Why are you so paranoid and hostile?”
“Possibly, Watch Captain, because both young women are aware of what happens when things go poorly. And I might add, the Watch does not have a history of being kind to people like us. Like me. You wanted a conversation? You’ll have it. But please, leave my two friends alone.”
Pub Owner Hariett stood in front of the table, and Zevara looked her up and down, incredulous. So this was a Turnscale. It wasn’t just a kid-thing. She didn’t look…
No, Zevara had met people who ran tidy businesses and had all kinds of dark secrets in the back. Zevara held out a clawed hand.
“Watch Captain Zevara, Miss Hariett. I’m just here to get my perspective straight.”
Rose winced.
“Yeah, you’re as straight as a ruler, Zevara.”
That sounded vaguely like an insult, but Hariett just flicked her eyes to Rose. Then she turned to Zevara, and she didn’t smile. She put her claws on her hips, and whatever Zevara had expected, or even Liska or Rose…the look of pure animosity that came from Hariett made Zevara’s claw twitch towards her sword handle.
“I’d prefer to have a conversation in private if we must, Watch Captain. And let me be very clear: this is my pub. Touch either girl here or anyone of my clients and I will scream bloody murder to the streets. I would appreciate you walking out the door, but your kind never does, do they? I just hope you don’t end up getting anyone killed…today.”
Even Liska seemed vaguely shocked by Hariett’s tone. It certainly put Zevara on the back foot.
“Whatever you think I’m here to do, Miss Hariett, I assure you, I’ve just come as a private citizen.”
“Oh, in that case, get out of my pub.”
Hariett jerked a thumbclaw towards the door. Zevara hesitated.
“Let me rephrase. I’m conducting an inv…I’m fact-seeking without any actual suspicion of a crime being committed.”
“So when you find one, it’s a happy accident? You respecting my private domain was too much to ask for. That is the Watch for you, Liska. If they don’t wedge a boot in the door, they kick it in. Boots all the way down.”
Ancestors! Zevara had known friendlier people in the Corused Steer! And boots—that term put her back up.
Sounds like Miss Hariett here does have gang connections. However, Rose jumped in, all passionate anger, which neither woman really wanted. She waved a finger in Zevara’s face.
“If you get Hariett hurt or in trouble or tell anyone, Watch Captain, I’ll call the full wrath of The Wandering Inn down on you. I’ll erase your Watch House, I swear it.”
The threat made Zevara’s blood run cold, then hot. She snapped back.
“I’m not here to hurt or threaten anyone! I just want to know! How the hell can I decide if you need help or—or I’ve been misguided if you won’t talk to me?”
Rose opened her mouth, and Hariett pulled her to one side. She stood there, glaring down at Zevara in her high boots.
“Misguided. You’ve been Watch Captain near a decade, and you have the gall to say that to me? Your Watch has killed more innocent people than any gang, even Soot’s, and you want to come in here now and ask questions? A decade too late?”
Zevara recoiled. She got angry at once. Killed innocent—! Smoke began to come from her mouth, but it didn’t make her cough anymore. She growled.
“My [Guards] have always maintained the highest standards! If any of them step out of line, I come down on them like the High Passes themselves! I don’t recall any moments where I—”
Then she hesitated, because her mind had run to the place where Hariett’s burning eyes were already waiting.
“Strange. For a woman whom everyone seems to love for backing the Antinium, you don’t count all those Drakes your Watch hauled off for public indecency. Exiled, fled, beaten to death by family or neighbors. I suppose it’s not as bad as other cities, but then, I always liked you being bad at your job in this area. So if you think you’re coming in and—”
Hariett was on a tear. She was poking at Zevara, who backed up a step or two, until Liska caught her.
“Hariett! Hariett, what’re you doing?”
Even Rose was whispering.
“Zevara’s on our side! Or she thinks she is! C’mon, Hariett, let’s take this to the back.”
A good place to be ambushed and knifed, although Zevara wasn’t sure any assassin wouldn’t do a better job than Hariett’s tongue. Where had that come from? The Drake [Pub Owner] caught herself, breathing hard, and then…
And then she appeared afraid. Terrified. Of…Zevara? She backed up a step.
“That’s right. Not here. Let’s…you wanted to find someone to talk to, let’s do that, Captain.”
She motioned towards the bar and led the way. Zevara waited a beat and then muttered at Rose and Liska.
“Have I arrested her family or something?”
“I dunno. She really didn’t like you following me.”
Liska seemed just as confused. Rose? Rose just glanced at Zevara and sighed.
“You actually don’t get it. Do you? I guess you did do the right thing for ten years as you saw it, Captain Zevara.”
“I always have.”
The Watch Captain snapped back. Rose shrugged.
“Seems like some people don’t see it that way.”
That shook Zevara. She suspected Hariett was affiliated with the underworld, but there had been that righteous edge in her tone. Sometimes, you got indignant criminals, but…the vibe was off.
Her [Guardswoman] senses told her she was missing part of the puzzle. Zevara strode forwards, hoping to get to the bottom of this, but Hariett hadn’t gone into the back rooms. She’d stopped at the bar, then gone over to the front door, and now…she stood there. Her scales had gone from pale to almost whitish as she turned to Zevara.
“Funny. I knew you’d be trouble, but I actually believed Liska for a moment there. Well, Watch Captain, for a woman just ‘looking for information’—what kind of goodwill and honesty brings two full squads of the Watch down on my pub?”
Zevara turned, confused, and then she realized the people trying to leave had flooded back into the inn. There was a deafening silence, and she turned to Liska and Rose. The Human had gone white.
“What? I didn’t—”
No one believed her. They all backed up a step, and Zevara was striding for a window when there was a rap on the door, a banging of a fist, and a loud voice.
“Liscor’s Watch! Public decency inspection! Open up!”
Hariett exhaled, and Zevara’s mouth opened as Liska closed her eyes and Rose moaned. But the Watch Captain’s first thought was—
“Public what?”
She’d never heard of that before. Hariett opened the door slowly, and a bored-looking [Guardsman] walked in and saluted.
“Excuse me, Miss. We’re conducting a routine inspection for public decency in the name of safety. It won’t take long.”
“What—what is this about, Guardsman? I’ve never had one of those in my bar. This is an upstanding establishment! We never have issues that need the Watch!”
Hariett breathed, and her clasped claws were visibly shaking as well as her tail behind her. The Gnoll saluted.
“It’s a new protocol, ma’am. It’s very simple. We just come in and sweep the premises for anything problematic. Drugs, high-stakes gambling, crime—we have a truth stone, and we’ll just ask a few questions. If anyone’s witnessed a crime, is in fear of their life, if they’re a Turnscale, and so on.”
Zevara stared, and she felt her back-scales prickle as Liska grabbed Rose’s hand tight. Hariett’s voice was faint.
“That’s…very reasonable. But isn’t it against the law to ask if someone’s committed a crime on a truth stone?”
The Gnoll chuckled, though he was eying Hariett’s face and the very silent room. He had instincts.
“Oh, that is against the law, and you’re not the first establishment owner to say that, Miss. But this isn’t asking if someone’s committed a crime. Just if they’re witnesses to one.”
Or a Turnscale. The Gnoll gestured at the squads.
“We just post a squad around back so no one can slip out—plenty of [Sneak Thieves] and [Pickpockets]. We won’t arrest most unless they’re actively committing a crime. Just a fine and note. I understand it’s an inconvenience, but it really won’t take much time. Watch Commander Venim has instituted this to raise confidence in the Watch. It’s a Pallassian practice, Miss.”
“I know.”
Hariett was staring at Zevara. And the Watch Captain? She was cursing Venim under her breath. Of all the times…! And a Pallassian policy? She saw Rose searching for a window, but she knew the Watch had every exit covered. She’d trained them to do that, even the sneak exits.
Someone had to do something. In that moment, the [Senior Guardswoman], no, the [Smokebreath Detective] in Zevara told her who that was. She strolled forwards, threw back her hood, and spoke.
“That’s the stupidest damn protocol I’ve ever heard of in my life, Guardsman. Name and rank! And you’re lucky you didn’t try this Creler crap in The Corused Steer or you’d have every table in the inn taking shots at you. You walk in with a squad and take cover or not at all! Who taught you?”
The Gnoll [Guardsman] jumped and reflexively saluted.
“Guardsman Briv—who the hell is that? Oh! Watch Captain Zevara!”
His entire squad poked their heads in, and everyone in the pub turned as Zevara put her hands on her hips.
“That’s right. I was just having a lunch break here. Now Watch Commander Venim’s having you doing public decency inspections? How many establishments have you covered? When was this implemented?”
Briv was completely confused, but he answered automatically.
“Uh, just yesterday, Watch Captain. Our patrols have done twenty-four establishments so far. It’s slow because it’s new and we get tons of objections. And people who run for it. We, uh, he wants six patrols on permanent rotation once we get up to speed. Two per district.”
There was a moan of fear in the background. Zevara’s scales crawled, and she knew Rose and Liska were staring daggers at her back.
So perhaps Turnscales do have something to fear. She was more used to Liska being arrested for public indecency or attacking a [Guard] lecturing her.
This…this was new to Zevara. This felt like going on the offensive, and she had never considered Turnscales an issue worth fighting. You just swept them up where you found them or got tipped off—
Then exiled them or imprisoned them and—she saw Hariett staring at her out of the corner of her eyes. Zevara cleared her throat.
“I see. Well, Guardsman Briv, you remember what I said about how you enter a building. Now, I want you to take your squads and return to patrol. Have Acting-Captain Relc reassign you and spread the word to stop these inspections.”
“Us, Watch Captain? But Commander Venim said—”
“Commander Venim’s never seen a room full of [Rogues] lining up a [Splintershot Volley] on him. The Watch has the backing of their armies in Pallass. Not here.”
That’s how I’ll argue it with him, at any rate. Zevara jerked her chin around at the pub.
“This pub’s fine. If I’d seen anything illicit, I would have called it in myself. Let’s get back on the streets dealing with some real crimes, huh?”
Briv hesitated, but then he stared at her and clearly saw her riding after Moass and Hissl. He saluted with a grin.
“I should have known you’d beat us to the punch, Watch Captain. We’ll do that. I wasn’t keen on doing my first dive bar or hell bar either.”
She gave him a wry smile.
“No, you really wouldn’t be. Guards? As you were!”
“Let us know when you need backup, Watch Captain! And when you’re doing your next big chase!”
Someone shouted from outside. She glowered at a Human woman, and they spun on their heel and began marching back the way they’d come. She heard a few of them whispering loudly.
 
“That was her! She’s shorter than I thought!”
“I trained under her, you know. And Senior Guardsman Relc. I didn’t know she drank here.”
“I hear she pops up where you’re working, and if you’re not doing your job right, she thrashes you. One group of rookies did a patrol wrong, so she attacked them in the night and took out three squads by herself!”
 
Zevara was red-faced, but when she turned, she saw Hariett visibly collapse into a stool, and Rose let out a huge breath. Liska glanced around.
“Is…is that it?”
“That’s it. Everyone out!”
Hariett spoke after a second and turned.
“We’ll settle your tabs later. I’m closing up.”
People went for the doors at once, and Zevara saw a hooded figure slipping out the back. She frowned.
“There’s no need for that. I’ll go and talk to Venim now—”
The [Pub Owner] glanced at Zevara, and there it was again. Fear. Real fear, so sharp and present that Zevara felt her instincts chiming at her.
They’re terrified. Hariett turned.
“We’d be very grateful for that, Watch Captain, but even if I stayed open, I don’t think anyone would be in the mood to drink. We…I’ll be happy to answer any questions you have. Later?”
She sounded like she’d rather swim a lap in the Floodplains, but Zevara calling off the raid seemed to have won some kind of trust. The Watch Captain nodded as she backed up a step, and Rose gave her a grudging thumbs up.
“Thanks, Captain Zevara. I guess it was good you were here.”
“Yes. Er, sorry about that. It’s just—Pallassian standard operating procedure. The Watch was just doing what they were told.”
She felt like she was trying to justify something, and she saw Rose, Liska, and Hariett all turning to her with that same expression on their face. Guarded. Secretive. Wary.
“We know.”
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara was a fool.
A well-meaning fool, but a silly Drake nonetheless. Most law enforcement officers were, insofar as they believed in something called ‘laws’ and that these things should be enforced to the letter. Sillier were the ones who thought the law was something that could never tarnish, give, or be altered.
In that sense, Zevara wasn’t that stupid, but she was a fool.
Venim was a weak man, a spineless father who served dessert first at dinner. And, most would agree, a Watch Commander with his heart in the right place, who tried to do the right thing.
None of that mattered. Zevara’s explanations about Watch Captain procedure trailed off in the face of Hariett’s polite smile. She cleared her throat.
“Of course, I’ll be discreet. Absolutely. I’m no fool.”
“Naturally, Watch Captain. I’d expect no less in matters of life and death.”
Rose and Liska were watching, both vibrating with the anger of youth. Injustice, as they saw it, ready to give Zevara a piece of their minds. But Hariett was older. She had better knives. Zevara hesitated, then closed her mouth and nodded, eyes flicking to Hariett, around her emptying pub—
The [Pub Owner] moved ever-so-slightly to block Zevara’s view of the people streaming out the front doors, though she wasn’t that tall. The Watch Captain bit her lip, losing that imperious, all-or-nothing authority that she wore like a cloak at times, the mantle of someone Protecting the People, Doing the Right Thing, Enforcing the Law.
She cleared her throat and exhaled a bit of smoke upwards.
“I just—the squad was following orders, Miss Hariett. That was new to Liscor.”
“I am well aware, Watch Captain, and the Watch always follows orders.”
A longer pause, and now Zevara was trying to be a [Mind Reader] along with Liska and Rose. This was a new street to the [Watch Captain], a new beat, but it had only blood in the paving stones. Old sins. She felt like she’d walked into the Corused Steer by accident after all. But she couldn’t find the person she was supposed to arrest, which made her uneasy.
She defaulted to what she knew. Her back straightened, and she looked Hariett dead in the eyes, that ruler of a Drake [Guardswoman], and saluted her.
“I’d just like you to know, Miss Hariett, that if that squad had tried to press matters, I would have removed them first. I am not here to have a—a mob form or to get anyone hurt or killed. If trouble ever threatens your establishment, I will be the first one in line to defend it.”
Liska’s flattened ears rose a bit. That she believed. Antinium, Gnoll, Human—Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor would defend them if they were innocent in her books, and pursue them to the ends of the earth if they were guilty.
They believed that. Rose nodded grudgingly. And Hariett? She smiled gently at the earnest Watch Captain and spoke like someone trying not to hurt a child’s feelings.
“I’m sure if that moment came, it would make you feel better, Watch Captain. But this isn’t a theft from Antinium, and the Watch has never been helpful in my books.”
Liska and Rose’s heads swung to Zevara, and the Watch Captain hesitated. Grimaced, then saluted again, schooling her face to impassiveness.
“—I see. I may return with questions, but I believe I need to have an urgent meeting with Watch Commander Venim. Would that be acceptable?”
“I suppose it must be. If you could be discreet, Watch Captain?”
“Of course. Excuse me.”
The Watch Captain turned on her heel, put her hood up against the rain, and walked out the front of the inn. Hariett walked over to the door, watching through a window as the Watch Captain splashed off. Then she turned.
“Tell, send a Street Runner to everyone who should know about the Watch’s new inspections. We should have a get-together.”
“Your place later?”
The [Bartender] glanced up as Hariett gazed towards Elirr, who’d poked his head up from behind the bar.
“That might be…”
“My shop. We’ll talk—later, Hariett.”
“Catch me up, and try to keep things calm. Sounds like this will stop. For today, at least.”
She forced a smile and then turned. The Drake woman took a huge breath, then forced a grin.
“I have time for this meeting, Miss Rose, if it’s acceptable. You might want to check in, first.”
“Oh, no, I already cleared it with—um, them.”
Rose began, but Hariett took her arm and squeezed gently, nodding at the door.
“You may want to re-clear it, Rose.”
Because the Watch Captain of Liscor knows who I am. Liska saw Elirr striding into the rain, followed by Tell, the Gnoll [Bartender]. And then…Hariett stood there, alone. Her claws were trembling, but she hid it by putting them in her pockets.
“You two scat. Nothing like the Watch to scare off all the kids smoking Dreamleaf or skiving off their apprenticeships.”
Rose nodded and backed up.
“I’ll just—come to the inn tonight. We can get you some free food and drinks even if—um, sorry.”
“I’m sorry too. I really didn’t know…”
Liska began, but Hariett just shook her head, a far-off look in her eyes.
“That’s why we’re cautious, Liska. I doubt you’d have been able to shake the good Watch Captain even if you tried. Just…it’s quite alright.”
Rose went for the doors, nothing left to say. And Liska?
She felt like she always did when Lyonette and Ishkr put their heads together. Or how she normally felt. Like a fish watching bigger events passing by her. Vast shadows of uncertainty and stress she liked to ignore. She had the intense desire to grab a bowl of chips, sit on the couch, and watch the television and not know what was…
It was her day off. Hariett was straightening a few chairs when she realized Liska wasn’t going for the doors.
“Anything else, Liska?”
“Um—I—”
Liska had nothing to say. No wisdom. She really didn’t know what was going on.
She never did.
 
——
 
“Liska?”
Miss Hariett prompted her again after six minutes of clearing up tables and chairs. Not that she didn’t have help, but it was settling her nerves. Or she was pretending it was helping. She turned, and the young Gnoll was still standing there.
“Um, I…um—well, that was bad, right?”
Where did you begin with her? Hariett opened her mouth and then, with practiced deftness, avoided snapping and put herself in Liska’s boots. She nodded as she found a mop.
“It wasn’t good. New protocols in place. Even if Watch Captain Zevara puts an end to it today, it’s a change in Liscor. We’ll be fine. We have our own protocols.”
“Your claws are shaking, Miss Hariett.”
The [Pub Owner] scowled.
“When did you become so observant? It’s fine, really. I’m just going to clean up and check on Vakki. Poor girl. I’ll have to leave her with someone. Tell, maybe, though he’s got a one-bedroom apartment. I’ll sort that out, see if Rose’s friends want me, and my schedule’s cleared.”
Her voice was light, airy, and she glanced at the door. Tried to motion Liska out with her [Nudge Customers] Skill.
It bounced off Liska’s fortress of obtrusiveness. The [Doorgnoll] was pressing her chin against the inside of her thumb and forefinger, doing a bit of deep thinking.
“…You’re free because Zevara knows your identity. And—and Elirr didn’t invite you to the secret meeting because everyone’s worried you’re going to get arrested?”
Hariett’s stomach flip-flopped, and she glowered.
“That’s only a remote possibility. You heard Zevara.”
“But that’s what’s going on, right? I don’t get things, normally, but that’s what that was? And you were so—mean to her! You were chewing her out!”
Annoyed, Hariett stopped mopping mud. She’d lost her head, honestly. She’d expected Zevara to arrest her on the spot, and then to see her call off that patrol…even so, she wasn’t going to let that lie.
She snapped at Liska.
“If you’re going to stand there and natter questions at me, grab a mop and help, would you?”
Liska did, and as they swished on the floor, Hariett spoke, heart still racing.
“I did lose my temper there. I shouldn’t have, but—Zevara deserved everything I said to her and more. I nearly decked her since I thought she’d haul me off like…”
“But she’s Watch Captain Zevara! Didn’t you see her arresting those stupid idiots from Fissival? She defends Antinium! Heck, she’s always fair!”
Liska was astounded. Hariett spat, then had to mop it up.
“Fair. Liska, she’s fairer to Antinium—Antinium—than she is to us. You think I was exaggerating? It’s true her Watch isn’t as hard on us as most cities, but I have known friends who have been exiled or killed because she had them arrested. Public indecency. Being a…she’s got our blood on her claws.”
“She doesn’t. She’s only arrested me a few times, and I hit Watch officers—”
Hariett spun. She grabbed Liska’s arm, and the young woman was bigger than her, taller, but she flinched, and Hariett wished she could turn off the look in her eyes. Years of fear and hurt and—
“I know you like her, Liska. And I hope she stays friends with you if that changes her. I’ll try to be nice, for all our sakes. But when you see how many lives she’s torn up by enforcing the law she thinks is so shiny and perfect—I hope you can keep smiling at her.”
That shook Liska. The young [Doorgnoll] kept mopping, but there wasn’t any real point; it was a mess, and Hariett couldn’t focus on cleaning. She tossed the mop down with a grunt.
“My floors are a mess. I’ll need to get Silveran’s Cleaners in here. Damn Bootheads stomping in here—the Watch never uses welcome mats.”
“Oh, um, should I get—?”
Then a new voice interrupted, a familiar drawl that made Hariett’s scales creep.
“Terrible things, those boots. I could get a fellow to do the cleaning cheap, Miss Hariett. ‘Scuse me. Just thought I’d drop in to apologize for the surprise.”
She swung around as Liska jumped and saw a Drake with oily-yellow scales standing there. Unlike whatever look Noiraid or Zevara liked to play into, he didn’t wear a stupid trenchcoat in the rains, just lightweight, black clothing that was oiled and shed water onto her floors.
Of all the things—she motioned for Liska to get back, but Liska just blinked at the intruder.
“Lable. I thought I was supposed to get warnings about trouble?”
He coughed into a fist, looking uncomfortable.
“The Watch moved fast. We were getting our own people out of the way…they didn’t exactly announce where they were going. All’s well that’s ended well. What was Watch Captain Zevara doing here?”
Oh, so that was it. Now they were in trouble, but Hariett been in trouble before, and she spoke with a casual briskness.
“A lucky break for us all: she was following Miss Liska.”
The Drake blinked, recognized Liska, then nodded to her. He didn’t have a cap to tip.
“The [Doorgnoll]. Hallo, Miss.”
Liska tilted her head. She recognized Lable for what he was, too, but she was confused.
“You’re not a Brother. They have hats.”
He stiffened at that, and a snarl crossed his mouth, revealing a scar on his gums running up his upper mouth.
“I’m not a damn—right, right, you know them from the inn. ‘Scuse me. I’m just having a word with Miss Hariett here. So it was just a coincidence?”
Hariett put her hands on her hips.
“She’s after me, Lable. Me and my people, not yours. Tell you what; how about we cancel our little arrangement for a month or two? She’ll be back, but I’m just going to have to explain my peculiarities.”
“Oh. Uncomfortable. But she’s not arresting you?”
“She’s curious.”
The Drake made the same face Hariett did.
“No such thing as a curious [Guardsman]. Just one that hasn’t decided to arrest you yet. But if you’re discreet—”
“Do you think I’m stupid? Go into the back and get your things. I’m no fool, Lable. Or did you think she’d walk away and tell that patrol to walk out if she’d found your things?”
He sucked on his teeth, not quite pleased, then jerked his head.
“We’ll do that. Just you remember to keep your lips shut, eh? And once we do get back to business, we’ll keep everyone informed in case the Watch decides to do that again.”
“For an extra silver per month?”
He spread his arms theatrically as two more Drakes stomped into the pub out of the rain.
“Money don’t rain down like…rain, Miss Hariett.”
“Odd how you think we have so much, then!”
He didn’t respond, and she grabbed Liska and towed her aside.
“Alright, we wait for them to go, and then you and I split, got it?”
“Who were they? They were criminals! You work with criminals?”
Liska was wide-eyed, and Hariett hissed at her.
“Don’t look at their faces! Lable’s just checking because the Watch spooked him. Damn idiots. I pay them so I don’t get trouble, and this is what I get?”
She shot a glower at the trio carrying boxes out, and Lable paused at the door.
“Oh, and just thought I’d mention one thing. If you, ah, get another offer from a competing gang, just remember how good we’ve been to you. You don’t want trouble, and them hat-boys can’t be everywhere.”
“It never crossed my mind. Liska’s not involved with you lot.”
“Yeah. Sure.”
The [Rogue] eyed Liska, who waved at him.
“I just send people places.”
Lable spat on the floor.
“You mind sending less men with hats into the city? Forget about it.”
He slammed the door, and Hariett debated scolding Liska about the smart comments, but she was actually impressed; the girl had a lot of poise, and she might have unnerved Lable’s crew. She sat back against a table.
“At least I won’t have to pay them off for a bit.”
“So you do work with—”
Hariett glowered.
“Yes, Liska, I do! Because my pub needs to be safe, and because we are not friendly with the Watch—who do you think I turn to for help?”
“But he was all shady! And not the cool kind like the Brothers—”
Liska protested. Hariett sighed.
“He’s a snake, but he knows who I am, and he’s not stupid enough to ruin a good thing. That’s how it works, Liska. If I were to suddenly want to stop paying money, he’d probably put a worm in some [Guard]’s ear to investigate me. At least he doesn’t know anyone else. Our distinguished friend you met is an upstanding citizen as far as Lable’s lot is concerned, and we’re keeping it that way. It’s not fun being…us.”
Watch breathing down your necks and gangs plucking from your pocket. That was just life, but Liska’s glimpse into it left her so stricken that Hariett felt guilty. She pushed Liska gently.
“Look, it’s fine. This has been a bad day by any standard. Just go home, please?”
So saying, the Drake woman strode off. Hariett locked the back door, flipped the sign to ‘closed’, and was closing up. Only when she turned and saw Liska standing behind her did she jump.
“Liska—what are you doing?”
“I dunno. What happens next?”
“What…I’m going to go about my day, pretend things are fine, and so are you. If something happens, it won’t be now.”
Hariett snapped. Liska stared at her.
“Can I see Vakki?”
“I—well, she is your friend—don’t you have things to do?”
Hariett spluttered, and Liska looked around. She scratched her stomach as rainwater dribbled down onto her shoulder.
“It’s my day off. And I’m worried about Vakki. So, like, what happens if Zevara does something bad?”
Hariett went striding off, motioning for Liska to keep her voice down. And she realized, belatedly, that Liska’s lack of any kind of involvement with her might have been a blessing over the years. As Liska’s girlfriends or Ishkr could tell you, she did get obstinate when she focused on something.
 
——
 
Vakki and Lizze, the [Lover] duo of Liska’s friend group, were a year younger than Liska. They were an interesting couple. Lizze was the one who looked like she’d stab someone, not Vakki. She was tall for a Drake her age, slightly overweight, and often smelled like dust from her part-time job powdering Corusdeer horns or processing monster parts; she was a [Grinder], only Level 11.
Vakki was the slimmer, shorter Drake who got catcalled and hissed at by Gnolls and Drakes alike. She was also the sweeter one of the two—
Well, normally.
She had a knife. She hid the knife when she heard the two voices coming up the stairs to Hariett’s apartment.
“—then I’d leave the city before trouble got me.”
“Leave? Just like that?”
“Yes. I know it sounds radical; plenty stay. But when you’ve seen how bad it gets…you leave. Liska, it’s fine. I doubt Zevara will tell anyone.”
“But what if the inspections continue?”
“…Well, then, we’ll have to take countermeasures and it’s bad. We hope that the gangs will make it so unpopular they stop.”
“So Pallass has them all the time?”
“Yes—hold on. Vakki? We’re coming in, dear. Are you in there?”
“Yep!”
Vakki had put the knife down the back of her pants. When the door opened, she blinked.
“Liska?”
“Hey, Vakki! I, uh, I had a day off, and I just heard about the thing with Lizze. Sorry. I mean…sorry.”
Liska perked up and then wilted at once before blurting out everything obvious. Classic Liska. But she seemed…older? Vakki didn’t know. She glanced at Hariett. Both seemed worried about something.
“Everything okay? Shouldn’t you be at work, Miss Hariett?”
Vakki had just been about to slip out, having thought the pub would be open all day. Hariett glanced at Vakki.
“We had a situation at the pub. Liska, close the door, would you?”
“Oh, right. That’s like my entire job. Um…so, Vakki. How’s Lizze?”
“Crying. I don’t know; they said they’d arrest me if I even got near her again. How do you think?”
Liska lifted her paws as the door closed by itself. Vakki and Hariett stared at it.
“Hey, I’m—like that’s really bad. Really bad. I only heard you were in jail yesterday. I’d have helped bail you out, I promise.”
Hariett walked around Vakki, into her kitchen.
“Liska’s the one who got the rest of the gold together to bail you out, Vakki.”
“You what? That’s way too much. I can’t pay you back.”
Vakki was astonished and horrified. It had been twenty gold. Liska shrugged.
“I, um, got all my backpay for like, months. It’s no big thing.”
“I’ll…I’ll pay you back.”
The Drake [Lover] lied. That was her main class. Oh, she had [Scribe] as her work-class, but she only did that for a job. She was who she was.
[Forbidden Lover]. Level 15. And she knew Lizze was crying. She could [Sense Emotions]. She knew Lizze was locked in her rooms, and no one was feeding her so she lost weight for the wedding before her fiancé came.
She wondered what Lizze felt from her. Confidence, Vakki hoped. Calm.
All she had to do was save Lizze from the worst. Then…she’d get out of the city, with Lizze if possible. But she was doing this for—
There was a wiggling sensation along her back, near her tail. Vakki whirled, and Hariett plucked the knife out of her trousers.
“Yep, there it was.”
“Give that—”
Hariett deftly stepped backwards and fended Vakki off.
“I swear I got rid of every blade in my apartment! How the hells did you get that?”
“It’s your neighbor’s. I borrowed it.”
“Vakki, I have told you again and again, this is not how you fix the situation! Leave it to us!”
Hariett cursed as she held onto the knife. Vakki glanced away, ignoring her. Adults said plenty of stupid shit, and Hariett was nice…but she had no idea what was going on. You could buy a knife anywhere in Liscor. All Vakki had to do was…
She turned to Liska.
“Hey, sorry about that. Want to go out?”
Liska had gold. Maybe she could—
“Vakki reset chop!”
The Gnoll hit Vakki on the forehead with her paw as hard as she could. Vakki sat down hard, and Liska rubbed at her paw.
“Ow.”
“Ow. Liska, what—”
Hariett blinked as Liska lifted her paw again.
“Are you going to listen to Miss Hariett or do I have to reset your brain again? She always gets like this when it’s about Lizze. You have to hit her first. Vakki, stop trying to stab people!”
“I’m not stabbing people. Just Lizze’s father. He’s the one who’s arranging the marriage. I’ll just stab him through the heart then leave the city.”
Vakki pointed out reasonably. Liska folded her arms as Hariett groaned.
“Vakki, you’re stupid.”
“You suck Shield Spider eggs.”
“Thaheart’s fur has more brains than you do.”
“Ishkr got all the brains in the family and you got all the fluff in that head. Lizze needs me.”
“Yeah, and she doesn’t need you dead! Did you really stab her dad once already?”
Vakki gritted her teeth.
“I tried, but he had a healing potion.”
“Well, there you are then. You’re terrible at stabbing. If you were any good at it, he’d be dead. Trust me, I work for an [Innkeeper] who’s great with knives. No one ever gets up after she stabs them.”
Vakki and Hariett eyed Liska, and the Gnoll glanced around.
“Why don’t you, um, like not stab people and wait for Hariett to do something? Is Lizze getting married this week?”
Despite herself, the [Lover] shook her head.
“Next month is when her fiancé is coming up. But she needs me now! What—what was that about your boss stabbing people?”
“Who, Erin? She stabbed the [Prince] and other people. I swear she’s good at it.”
“…Wait, from the television? Where do you work again?”
Liska turned and gave Vakki a huge frown.
“I work at The Wandering Inn. Don’t you listen to me?”
The [Lover] opened her mouth and retorted.
“You never tell us anything about work, just complain about Ishkr and ‘Lyonette’! I didn’t know you had a new job for three months!”
“Oh. Right. Well…I work there now. It’s pretty nice.”
At some point, Hariett had to pour herself a drink of Amentus juice because this really was like listening to the average conversation at her pub. But then, Liska’s eyes lit up.
“I heard about Orrell too. He’s alive. In Invrisil.”
Vakki blinked. Hariett twisted around.
“What? How do you know that?”
 
—-
 
Some people were like puddles that were deep as oceans. When you assumed they were shallow, easy-to-read, they had depths.
Liska was like a bucket. She was, mostly, exactly like what you assumed, and she was the one who thought that the most. It just turned out that, at times, she was a Bucket of Holding.
Neither Vakki nor Hariett had ever been to Invrisil. They insisted on dressing up in their finest; Hariett swapped out her bootlaces for two plainer ones, but added a scarf while she removed the jacket; it was warmer there without the ever-present rain.
Vakki just had her streetclothes since she’d lost her apartment after being arrested, but Liska loaned her a shirt. It said, ‘I Survived Liscor Hunted, And They Gave Me This Shirt’, and Vakki had cinched it and Liska’s baggier trousers up with her belt.
“You never survived Liscor Hunted.”
“Yeah, but Menolit gave me the shirt. Invrisil’s not that big a deal. C’mon.”
They skipped the line at Shivertail Plaza by virtue of Liska marching up to the door, which was still processing too-long lines. She opened up a side-door for them, and both women stared as she waved.
“Hey, Xinthe, how’s it going? Need a hand?”
She took seven minutes to clear the backlog, then went through to Invrisil. Hariett murmured.
“What—what level are you, Liska?”
“Um…Level 32?”
“Level 32?”
Vakki thought Liska was lying; Hariett blinked rapidly, and Liska glanced around as they walked into Invrisil’s busy, bright streets. There were so many people crowded around, walking about, that Vakki nearly shrank back, searching for Lizze.
This was a big city. She stared up at the buildings, mouth open. They were made of wood, and so bright! Glass and paint where Liscor was still smaller and the rains made everything drab and dreary. A huge poster was advertising the Players of Celum, performing tonight at the Season Theatre.
 
The Players of Celum present: Sir Balthinad, a tempestuous romance by Andel the [Playwright], the same author as Lady Elisial! Now on stage in the Season Theatre and being performed by Sir Wesle in Pheislant! Buy your tickets now; shows are sold out for this week next week the month!
 
*Tickets for sale at the Season Theatre, Merchant’s Guild, and Mage’s Guild only! Any other ticket sellers are not authorized for resale! Please ensure you have an authentic ticket!
 
“The Players of Celum are in Invrisil? There’s a new play? Ancestors, those prices!”
Hariett was startled. She knew of the Players of Liscor, of course, but Liska shrugged.
“They’ve got this really fancy theater here. I heard Temile once saying to Lyonette that they put on all the new plays here and Pallass first.”
“What? But Liscor had the Players of Celum for ages! Wait, you know Temile? The Temile? I’m a huge fan of plays!”
Liska scratched at her stomach as she stared around.
“Where’s…Hoplic’s Stand? It’s down Carroway Street. That’s where Orrell is. You like the plays, Miss Hariett? They used to perform all the time in the inn. I dunno why Liscor gets them later. Because it’s not so big? Apparently, it’s a rule from Emme, the manager. Temile didn’t like it, but…c’mon, Vakki!”
The younger Drake jumped then rushed after Liska. Without Lizze to give her courage, she was nervous.
“This city’s so big!”
“Yeah. I mean, I’ve only been here a few times. But I see it a lot. Pretty cool, right?”
So many Humans! And even other species like Selphids; Vakki saw Hariett striding after them, hooking her claws in her belt.
“I forget that inn started it, Liska—I really should have talked to you before. However, let’s focus. This isn’t our city. I don’t know where this inn is; let’s ask around, but keep together. No wandering off.”
There was danger in foreign cities. Liska and Vakki scoffed; they knew all of Liscor, but their confidence visibly dimmed when Hariett got directions from a passing Stitch-woman.
“Carroway Street? You’ll have to head that way. But it’s not a nice part of town. I’d stay clear if I were you.”
Hariett took a huge breath.
“Wonderful. I’ll go by myself.”
“No!”
Liska and Vakki chorused, and Vakki pointed out the obvious.
“Orrell ran away because he was worried people would come after him, because, you know…he’ll run if he thinks you’re there to bring him back. He needs to see us.”
The [Pub Owner] grimaced.
“We should get more people, but—it’s not good to be seen together right now. Argh. Fine, let’s go. But do not draw attention to yourselves. If it looks dicey, I’ll turn us around. I’ve heard how many gangs Invrisil has.”
They set off, and Liska saw Vakki perk up as she peered excitedly at all the shops.
“This is amazing! I just never had the coin to afford to go here and back—since it’s, like, eight silver all the way.”
“I’d have let you go through for free, Vakki!”
“Liska, I didn’t know you were working at the inn.”
“Oh, right.”
The two were arguing. Now that she knew Liska was working at the inn, Vakki was annoyed and fascinated.
“So you were there at the Winter Solstice? And the other events?”
“Um, I missed a lot of them, actually. Ishkr’s the crazy one who was there plenty. But yeah.”
“…You’re lying. You always lie about doing cooler things than you do. Lazy Liska getting to Level 32?”
“Hey! I found out where Orrell is.”
“Sure. I don’t even believe that. There’s some magic all-seeing room in that inn?”
“I’ll show you afterwards. Well, maybe not; you get in trouble for bringing in outsiders, but I swear—!”
Vakki was excited, happy, then gloomy.
“What’s the point? Orrell can’t go back home. And what’s she going to do?”
She jerked her head at Hariett, who paused to glower at her. They were definitely getting to a seedier part of the city. The crowds had receded, and a few people eyed the passing trio speculatively. Sizing them up.
Especially Liska’s bag of holding, which the Gnoll had hold of. Liska hesitated.
“Well, Hariett got you out, right? Hey, Hariett, what do we do with Orrell?”
Hariett sighed.
“We see if he’s well. We talk to him, and then…he might not want to come back, but there are ways to change his identity. If he wants to, we’ll try to make it happen. Find him a job in Liscor.”
The [Lover] scoffed louder.
“How?”
“Hariett’s got friends.”
“Friends? Friends who’ll help a T—”
Liska nudged Vakki, hard, and whispered.
“Hariett’s cool, Vakki. All her friends are. Super cool.”
The Drake was faster to catch on than Liska. She peered at Hariett as the [Pub Owner] sighed louder, adjusting her belt. She kept glancing around, pausing as a few fellows with hats strolled down the street. She took them left.
“I’ve never heard of anyone older than us who’s…cool.”
Vakki muttered darkly. Liska shrugged.
“They don’t talk to us, and we never talked to Hariett.”
“So there’s more of…?”
For a second, Vakki was hungry, gleaming with interest and a bit of hurt, but Hariett just glanced back and put a claw to her lips.
“Later, we’ll explain. But yes, I hope to help both you and Orrell, if you don’t go and get yourself in deeper trouble, Vakki. I said that to you—”
“You gotta reset-chop her first. Otherwise, it goes in one ear and out her tail.”
Liska helpfully added. Vakki was drawing breath for a slew of questions when Hariett took them down another street seemingly at random and cursed.
“Vakki, Liska—someone’s following us. We might have to run for it.”
Both young women stiffened. They glanced around, and Hariett jerked a thumbclaw over her shoulder.
“Men with hats. Four of them. I don’t like the looks of them. My [Detect Weapon] Skill is screaming they’re all armed. I think we start moving faster, and if we have to, I’ll start shouting for the Watch. We run back to the city, got it?”
Vakki glanced over her shoulder as the quartet came around the corner, strolling casually, but definitely the same four that had been following them two streets prior. Liska? She frowned, glanced over her shoulder, and sniffed the air.
“Men with hats? Are those Brothers?”
“Liska! Don’t draw attention to—”
Too late. To both Drakes’ horror, Liska turned, waved a paw, and shouted.
“Hey! Are you Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings?”
All four casual Brothers glanced up, and several people walking down the street took one peek at Liska and hurried somewhere else. But Liska just waved and shouted.
“I’m from The Wandering Inn!”
That, to Hariett and Vakki’s astonishment, was like a magic word.
 
——
 
“Oh, the inn, Miss! Here we was about to pickpocket you—I do beg your pardon. It weren’t nothing but a simple bump n’ swap. But when someone comes into our district loaded with coin, as it were—you’d best not walk around with so much!”
“Oops. Sorry.”
Liska was getting gently scolded a few minutes later. The four Brothers were standing in the street, and another added as he puffed on a cigarette.
“We were also treatin’ it like a fee, Miss. Protection and whatnot. Three young ladies from Liscor come in, all flash, into a bad part of the city? Bad things might ‘appen. Unless we were here.”
He glanced pointedly at Vakki’s t-shirt and Hariett’s good clothing, which gave the [Pub Owner] reason to blush. But she was wary, thumbs hooked into her belt, and one of the Brothers gave her a respectful nod.
“Leastwise the adult in the street’s got a bit of spike to her. Still, you got proof you’re from the inn, Miss?”
“Whuzzat? Proof?”
Liska had finished shaking hands and gazed blankly at the Brother. He was a sandy-haired man in his twenties; few Brothers were very old, and thirties was often ‘old’ for them. Crimshaw had been in his forties and a full veteran. The young man with a battered hemlock hat laced his fingers together, all eight of them.
“Well…proof would be required, Miss. Just on account that we’ve heard that line before. Plenty of folk claim to be from the good inn with the wondrous [Innkeeper]. At first, it was no bad thing, but it’s gotten a bit old of late. Not that we’d be unpleasant about it. Just stern.”
“I gotta prove I’m from the inn? I’m the [Doorgnoll]. Liska. Me. Um…how do I prove it?”
Liska panicked. The Brothers exchanged glances.
“What if you gave us the badge what all staff has?”
Liska panicked harder.
“We have a badge? I never got one! Ishkr never said!”
The Brother with the cigarette nodded at the other three, and Vakki and Hariett understood that Liska was passing the test even without realizing it was one.
“Say, is there something in the inn that only you’d know about?”
Liska gave the Brother a big, earnest stare.
“No…definitely not anything important or secret. Nope.”
He gave her a dubious look and coughed.
“I mean anything of the stony persuasion, Miss?”
“…Um…do you mean all the Chemath Marble outside the inn?”
“The what now? Something else stony, Miss. Rather impressive in a heartbreaking way, as one might say?”
She was supposed to say the statues to validate her inn-credentials, but the Brothers had already gotten some confirmation she was more than hot air. They were trying to confirm it when they heard a shout.
“Is that Miss Liska there?”
She turned, blinked blankly, then brightened up as an older man with a limp strode towards them, holding a hand out.
“Hey! Hey, it’s you! Um, um—Mister Amel?”
She waved as all four Brothers whirled, then doffed their hats hurriedly. For who should it be than none other than the oldest member of the Brothers’ headquarters in Invrisil himself?
And the last person you expected to see on the streets. Amel, or rather, the [Doorman] who held the Brothers’ headquarters, slowed, massaging at his ankle.
“I thought I felt you about, young lady. What are you doing on these streets? You four—you had better have minded your manners.”
The glare he gave the four Brothers had them instantly shuffling their feet.
“Of course, sir.”
“Polite as could be, just going for a stroll.”
“Thought these ladies were a bit far out of their area, so we—”
“Is she really from the inn?”
The [Doorman]’s hand twitched, and they backed up a step. Whomever this was, he had Hariett’s scales on edge, but he shot a smile at Liska before giving the others a death-glare.
“She’s the [Doorgnoll] of the inn, and you’d jeopardize all travel if you gave her a hard time. To Liscor, and all the way to getting our lads to Oteslia! What’d you do?”
“Nothing, sir! Just, er—”
The sandy-haired Brother held something out, and Amel snatched it, then sighed. He handed it to Liska without a word. It was her bag of holding. She gasped, then saw the one at her waist go melting away into sand.
“Just a finder’s fee, sir. We’d have given it back if she’d proven she was actually from the inn.”
Amel glowered further, then turned to Liska.
“These are not the streets to walk down without some tact, Miss Liska. Lucky you ran into these four, even if they were a bit rude. What brings you here? And…when did you go ignorin’ my advice?”
He gazed at her with a mix of odd pride and sadness, and Liska ducked her head.
“Oh. Right. Um…we met after the Goblin King, right? Sorry. It’s all blurry after that.”
Everyone was staring at Liska as she fumbled for words, but Amel just put a hand on her shoulder.
“I didn’t expect you to do it all right away. You’re looking less shaken up, now.”
“I still have a few nightmares, I guess, but yeah. Yeah, it’s been good.”
“You didn’t die. That’s all that matters. You hold that door if it matters, let it break if not. As I told you, it’s just a damn door. But you protect yourself too! Whilst I’m here, I’d best walk with you. You four, with me. Where are you going?”
Liska gestured aimlessly, still hanging her head.
“Oh, to find a friend. He’s down Carroway Street. Um, Hoplic’s Stand?”
Amel nodded, then grimaced.
“That’s a rathole. Your friend must be in hard straits if he’s there. This is the wrong way to see him, even so. Let’s walk and talk. With the lads, you won’t have trouble.”
What he didn’t add was that with him, they’d not have trouble. Amel wasn’t quite a Face, but he was a high-level fellow employed by the Brothers. And he had Liska’s class.
 
——
 
For all the amazement that Liska threw Hariett’s way, the reverse was true now as the four Brothers whistled up twelve more, and Hariett and Vakki found themselves with a kind of honor guard.
Not for Liska or the inn, but old Amel. Him leaving his post seemed to be a rather big occurrence. But they were all listening to Liska talk with the old man with that incredulity that the Gnoll had learned to ignore.
Could it be true? Was what half of what she was saying possible? They had that earnest skepticism of people living in the real, sensible world who’d never had it shake and flip under their feet. The Brothers were a Gang, and they were still innocent like that.
Vakki and Hariett, as Liscorians, had a bit more tolerance to huge earthshaking events, but Liska was a realm they didn’t dream of. But Amel…
Amel didn’t even blink. He just spoke with that friendly wisdom.
“Done any practicin’?”
“On my off-time? This is like my one day off, so no…I was trying some of what you said, but I don’t get how my class is supposed to be powerful outside of my door. I mean, Erin’s door. Sure, I can hold it, but wouldn’t you just go through a window instead?”
He chuckled at that.
“You hold the area around the door. I’m sure your Skills let you do that.”
“Oh, yeah. And I had this really funny thing where I can [Apply Basic Enchantment] and…”
She wanted to talk about her Skills, but Amel was actually less interested in Liska’s new and mostly untapped Skills. He shook his head.
“I told you, it’s not the kind of thing that matters as much with us. Oh, it makes a door fancy. But that ain’t useful. Look at me. Where’s my door?”
He spread his arms out.
“I’m a sharp fellow with it, but walking the streets like this, am I any good or do I need all these young bucks with me?”
He nodded at the sixteen lads, and Liska frowned.
“…Right. So what’s the answer?”
She turned to him, and he sighed. Liska wasn’t exactly a student to come up with answers on her own.
“Perspective, young Miss. Just perspectives. The higher you go, the more it’ll matter for you. And I have faith you’ll go high if you’re dancing like this at your age. What is a door? What is a key?”
Liska’s head tilted as everyone else exchanged glances. But her eyes lit up slightly, as if there were a door in her head she was opening. Amel glanced about.
“Is that window a door, there? I think it is. Unconventional, but it lets a fellow go in and out. Is a door that sewer grate? Is a door that fence? Do I have a door on me, right now?”
He smiled, and Liska peered at him, then stared at his belt for a long moment.
“…How’re you doing that?”
“Preparation, practice. Perspective. You should’ve brought a door with you, but—ah, well, here we are. Just remember that a door’s more than a door. It can move and change, and it’s all metaphorical. As it were.”
He winked at her, and Liska, mindful of her new class, thought about Amel’ wisdom. She wondered…if her class was [Portal Guardian], what counted as a portal?
She actually didn’t know what a portal was, not the precise definition. She really should have gotten a dictionary or something. But then she saw a young Gnoll sweeping out the front of an inn, ears flat, looking miserable and unkempt. Liska shouted.
“Orrell?”
He froze, whirling, eyes wide, and she ran at him with Vakki. Liska tackled him into a hug, and he gasped. Amel stood back, smiling slightly as the Brothers chuckled, and Miss Hariett exhaled. Orrell hugged his friends, then burst into tears as they began to babble questions and talk.
Sometimes, one forgot what it was like to be young. Innocenter. Not innocent, but just…Amel tipped his hat at Miss Hariett.
“Nice young lady, there. Forgive me interruptin’, but I was worried. Miss Liska, she acts like she’s never even been mugged before in her life.”
“I don’t think she has. Liscor’s safer than it used to be, and I’d like to keep it that way.”
Hariett’s voice was cool, but she favored Amel with a smile. He had knife scars, magic burns, and he couldn’t see Hariett’s scars, but he nodded after a moment.
“Very fair, Miss. Very fair. Though, begging your pardon, you seem a bit wiser to the streets’n I’d expect, even from someone used to Liscor’s less-pleasant sides.”
She shrugged tiredly, eyes on Liska.
“You have to be. I’d love to be some fine, upstanding citizen who never has to do anything risky or break the law. But I can’t be. It’s not a choice I get to make.”
“I reckon that’s also very true.”
 
——
 
All things considered, it was a good moment.
Not only did Liska meet some friendly people like Amel, she got Orrell. The Gnoll appeared thinner, and he’d been having a hard time. He didn’t even have a fur comb; he’d run away the moment he’d been found out.
“I saw you in the portal room, but I had to go, Liska. I just…I can’t go back.”
His eyes were huge in his face, his fur was a tawny brown, but Hariett took his paw.
“Yes, you can, if you want to, Orrell. At the very least, I think you shouldn’t be working at this inn. It’s not safe.”
He sniffed and wiped at his nose.
“No, it’s not. Someone got stabbed last night over cards. But I…I can’t go back.”
“We can dye your fur or scales. And believe me, after a while, people searching for you will give up. There are illusion spells, Orrell.”
“But where will I go? I don’t have any money—”
“I have gold. Here—”
Hariett forestalled Liska, and she spoke to Orrell in that kind, matter-of-fact tone of voice.
“I have friends, Orrell. They can give you work if you can’t find any, and we certainly can find a place for you to sleep. No matter what happens, you won’t be penniless.”
“Why’d you run off, Orrell? Your family are Silverfangs, just like mine. They’re not…bad, are they? Not like Vakki’s.”
Liska wasn’t sure. Her parents didn’t really factor in her life anymore. Her mother was a Hazyflower addict, and her father was in the army. He never came back. Orrell rolled his eyes at her; he was actually a [Server], though he’d worked at a restaurant instead of an inn, but it was probably how he’d gotten this job.
“Liska, someone found out I’m—I’m—they were shouting, telling everyone. Everyone’s going to know, and they’ll burn down my home or—or find me and deal with me.”
“Who said that?”
The very words chilled Liska, and he averted his gaze.
“Someone. The—the guy who found out.”
“Not your family, was it? Mine kicked me out. But they haven’t told anyone because it’s shameful.”
Vakki was twisting the little ring she and Lizze had bought for each other on her finger. Her tail was thrashing, and Orrell stared down at his feet.
“It was just—I met him after work, and I thought he was flirting with me. I was so sure.”
“Oh, Orrell. You idiot.”
Liska closed her eyes. Orrell had always done this. Find people he thought were like him and talk them up in his head. Then put out a few feelers. For every correct guess, there were ten wrong ones. And this time…
“He didn’t react well. And I thought that was it; I ran off, but he followed me home. Then he was shouting in the street, and so I just ran.”
Hariett’s expression was grim as Liska and Vakki turned to each other.
“No going home, then. We’ll discuss it, maybe see about getting a letter to your family, but Orrell is right, Liska. He might bring down a lot of trouble if anyone thinks he’s still at his family’s house.”
“But Orrell’s parents are nice. They wouldn’t…”
“It’s not about them. If that Drake—he was a Drake, right? If he causes a huge scene, then everyone knows. And then you get a mob and…”
Vakki drew a line across her throat. Liska knew that was true too and hung her head. It wasn’t common, but it made her stomach churn. And then Orrell dropped the final [Fireball] into the conversation.
“He wasn’t a Drake. He was a Gnoll. I thought…I really thought he liked me.”
He was crying again. Liska held his paw until Hariett came over and gave Orrell a huge hug. Then she urged him up.
“Let’s get you something to eat. Do you have anything you need to take? I’ll talk to the [Innkeeper] for you.”
“No need, misses, sir. We had a little word, all polite-like. The fellow’s used to it. Shall we take you back to Liscor now?”
Amel smiled down at them, but Liska was no longer in a good mood. She trailed after Orrell as he talked about surviving the first week in Invrisil.
“I was on the streets for a week until I got work, and it was—pretty bad.”
“It happens quite a lot. You’re lucky you found work.”
“I know. I—there were other jobs I was considering.”
Liska frowned at him.
“What kind of jobs?”
“You know…red lantern district jobs. I’ve heard there’s money there.”
Liska laughed at him.
“You? Thaheart would do it for fun if he worked up the courage, but—”
Then she realized Hariett wasn’t laughing, and Amel, who was walking with them, gave her a side-eye and shake of the head. Not in denial—and Liska walked on.
“They have people like us working in…?”
“Oh, yes. Orrell’s lucky he didn’t turn to that either, or it would have been far, far harder to get him out of there. Liska, let’s wait until we’re out of public for this.”
That silenced the [Doorgnoll], and Orrell tried to force a smile at her.
“I don’t know how you found me, Liska. But thanks. Vakki, where’s Lizze?”
“Locked in her rooms. Her family’s marrying her to some Drake down south.”
“What?”
Explaining that to Orrell took them the rest of the march out of Invrisil. Liska thanked Amel again, and he nodded to her.
“A fellow in Liscor would know how to get in touch with me if you ever wanted a word. But remember, that was a favor. We don’t give out many for free, or get many chances.”
Chastised, she bowed her head and then saw Hariett leading Orrell into Liscor.
“I’ll be back tonight. Liska, keep an eye on Vakki for me? Don’t let her go anywhere. I’d take you two with me, but this should be as fast and secret as possible.”
She left the two in the inn, and Liska nearly went to sit on her couch until she realized it was occupied by an exhausted Peggy and Inkpaper. They brightened up when Liska waved at them, but Vakki just tugged on Liska’s arm.
“Let’s go somewhere we can talk, Liska. Your apartment?”
“Nah. It’s probably still leaky. Let’s just stay here. The inn has free food, and we can sit and talk.”
“The inn? Where?”
Vakki turned around, and Liska realized that thanks to the [Vault of the Mortal World], Vakki had no idea that the inn was actually through the door. She yanked it open, and Vakki gasped.
“Wait, the inn was here all along—?”
Getting Vakki into the inn, giving her a tour, and doing the old spiel about Goblins took some time. But soon enough, they were at a table in one of the private rooms. Liska hadn’t known if they were allowed, but when she’d asked, Calescent had told her of course, and arranged for a hot pizza to appear before they had even gotten themselves seated.
Vakki scarfed the sausage-and-mushroom pizza with the spice crust, and Liska picked at her food. She came out with it after a moment.
“It’s not fair.”
“What? Lizze? Orrell?”
“All of it.”
The Drake [Lover] licked her claws and went for another slice of pizza.
“This is great. You eat like this all the time, Liska? No wonder you look like you’ve put on weight.”
“Vakki, I’m being serious.”
Annoyed, the other Drake jabbed her chest with a claw.
“I’ve been living serious, Liska. You think I didn’t know what would happen when I tried to gut that bastard with a knife? Orrell’s an idiot. He always talks attractive people up in his head, and then—he should have known it’d go bad one day. He’s stupid.”
Her face crumpled up. She stopped eating, and Liska stared at her.
“Vakki, you’re so thin. Eat more. Didn’t they feed you in jail?”
“I mean, yeah, but I wasn’t hungry. There’s nothing to do in there. You get let out sometimes for a walk and stuff, but…mostly it’s just drunks or real criminals. They like to stare and make comments. They had weights inside too. Apparently, they had some prisoner, the Minotaur, who was there for ages, so they started doing stuff like letting you out.”
She’d been in a cell most of a month. Liska sat there, trying to imagine it. Vakki gulped down some juice.
“…You’re lucky, you know. You said you broke up with Shashi? It was always going to go like that.”
“Hey. I loved her. I used to.”
That hurt Liska’s feelings, but Vakki gave her a superior gaze.
“It’s not real love. You just want to have fun. Lizze and I got married and everything. We’ll die for each other. And now she’s going to have babies and have to live a lie unless I do something about it.”
Her fingers stole to a knife that had come with their plates, and Liska grabbed her claw.
“Don’t. Hariett’s going to help. I had no idea she knew people or they…you know, were like us.”
Vakki frowned darkly.
“Me neither. You heard her say how many there were? Why didn’t they do anything before this?”
“They’re worried.”
Liska murmured, remembering how scared Elirr and Hariett had been when the Watch came. Vakki gnashed her teeth.
“I mean, why don’t they fix this? Why do we have to run out of the city when someone shouts a word? Why is it our fault we—what’s wrong with us, Liska?”
Then she was crying as she ate more pizza. Crying, and Liska knew this was familiar too. Misery and sadness and—she hugged Vakki, and the Drake girl whispered in her ear.
“I levelled twice in prison, Liska. I promised myself I’d die before I let anyone take Lizze to that altar. Just help me save her. Please.”
Liska almost shoved Vakki back.
“Don’t say that! I don’t want to lose my friends!”
The [Lover] gave her a soulful look, all gentle kindness and remorse.
“It was really fun, Liska, but no matter what, we’re gonna have to go, Lizze and me. I mean, if I get out of here. I’ll be wanted by the Watch and—and we had a really good time. Nearly twenty years old. That’s as long as you get when you’re us. Then you have to hide, someone finds out, or it’s just over.”
Liska wiped at her eyes furiously.
“No! Hariett’s still there. And she’s…one of us.”
“She’s not really one of us. She just says she is. I’ve seen her for years at her stupid pub, and she’s never hanging out or, you know, finding people. If that’s our future, I don’t want any part of it.”
The two were bickering as they glared at each other over pizza, debating how to help Lizze, what’d happen to Orrell, and whether Shashi had really been into Liska, when the door opened.
Rose poked her head into the room and smiled. Both young women turned and stared.
Rose had changed her appearance. She’d changed her hair. She had fiery-orange hair she’d sheared short and given a wavy look with a comb and some hair gel. She was wearing a bloodred vest over a white, long-sleeved shirt and matching pants with a golden belt buckle. She winked at Liska as the Gnoll’s jaw dropped, and Liska swore Rose even had freckles; had she had them before?
“Hey, you two. I got the all-clear to bring both Hariett and Vakki over. You’re coming too, right, Liska? To the party in Pallass?”
“Party? Pallass? Who’s this, Liska? She’s awesome.”
Vakki blinked, and Liska sat up as Rose put her hands on her hips, mischief and excitement and something else in her eyes. Something bright.
Turnscales in Pallass. Liska was curious, so she nodded and rose—and then the young woman saw a different side to the world she’d known, and orderly, stuffy, lawbound Pallass. The City of Inventions as only a Turnscale saw it.
 
——
 
Mirn’s bar was on the 6th Floor for once. The rich district, in a pub whose owner was on vacation for the month. It had actual tables, chairs, and tonight was a special night because they had guests from out of the city.
So the [Protector] had invited more than the regulars. There had to be over a hundred people jammed into the dance floor alone, and—Liska kept gulping water with ice cubes in it—
It was hot. Spring heat and excitement filled the air, and it smelled like hormones and sweat, spilled drinks, fear, and fun. But it wasn’t like any party she’d expected.
The kind of party that Liska knew, the ones that Thaheart and Shashi had probably gone to with the others, would be drinks. Taking down shots of cheap Firebreath Whiskey, drinking until you forgot your nerves, and kissed someone you weren’t supposed to. Loud conversations half-shouted over someone playing the Singer of Terandria’s music.
And Mirn’s bar had elements of that, certainly. But it wasn’t all noise, drinks, or loud, rapid fun. There were plenty of people who sat at tables, away from all the action where the younger people were gathered, and just…talked.
Okay, talked and flirted and enjoyed themselves; Liska saw games of cards, even a chess match, but many were just sitting together with great familiarity and speaking, not always with pleasure, but with a weird energy to them.
As if almost everyone here was instantly, on the merits of entering, a friend. An ally, a conspirator on your side.
The same as you.
Turnscales.
It was strange and more intoxicating than the drinks that Liska hadn’t actually touched—neither had Vakki—because she had never, ever had someone like her for being…her. But when Mirn, the eponymous, blue-scaled [Protector] of his moving bar, leaned over the counter and offered her a beer, he was smiling at her with nothing but amused affection.
“Need a drink, dear? First time in a Turnscale bar?”
Liska jumped. Hariett had insisted on them not using the word! But here—she turned, and tried to smile at Mirn as she waved a paw around.
“I…yeah. This is crazy! I had no idea a place like this could exist!”
The Drake bared all his teeth and laughed.
“That’s probably because you didn’t know the right people in Liscor! Though I like to think my bar’s one of the best places in any Walled City.”
“Not for the drinks! Hey load ‘em up, Mirn!”
That was Rose. She came over with her hands full of empty tankards. He swatted at her.
“You wretched brat. See what I’m dealing with now that Onieva’s gone? If you didn’t pick it up, Rose is my little helper. She’s my acting waitress.”
“No class.”
“Which is why you suck at your job almost as much as I do mine!”
Mirn shouted as she grabbed the mugs he was refilling and took them back out. He leaned back over the counter.
“You two need anything, you holler. But remember—not a word of this leaves the bar. No names. Everyone knows me, because I’m the Sentry. If anyone starts asking where you live or what you do, you tell me. Got it? There are always rats.”
So there was danger here. Vakki and Liska nodded seriously, but then Liska went back to staring at Hariett.
“Hey, Vakki, remember how you said Hariett wasn’t like us? You’re dumb.”
The [Lover] said nothing, because she’d probably never seen Hariett as anything other than the annoyed [Pub Owner] yelling at them before now. Because that was Hariett’s job. Her cover. And right now, she was a person.
Namely, a Drake woman with bright, ruby-red gemstone laces and that stylish vest grinning at a Dullahan woman a head and a half taller than her, who was holding her head lower to talk. The Dullahan woman had the most bright and colorful armor that Liska had ever seen: swirls of color completely unorthodox to the regular paint schemes and more traditional armor that Dullahans favored.
She looked like a seashell’s pattern of colors in purple, yellow, and fiery red on her steel armor, and her dusky skin was slightly flushed. But then—Hariett was blushing too, and unless Liska was blind—
“Is she flirting?”
She whispered to Vakki, and the [Lover] whispered back.
“I think she is. But she’s, like, old. And that’s the most awesome Dullahan ever. Can she do that?”
Mirn overheard them as he filled more glasses.
“What, flirt? You young people, don’t make me hit you. Miss Hariett, right? She’s not even old!”
“She’s, like, forty!”
Mirn stared at the two teenagers, raised a piece of ice, and bounced it off both their heads with a single toss. That at least got Liska out of her chair, and she edged over to Hariett. The Drake glanced at Liska as she showed the Dullahan her boots.
“…these gemstones laces? I came up with them. I’ve never seen anyone else wearing them.”
“I am entranced. That jacket of yours—are they rhinestones? May I touch them?”
“Of course. They’re not fragile. Go ahead, and that armor. It’s so magnificent, but how do you wear it without people asking…questions?”
The Dullahan woman smiled.
“Go ahead and touch at it and see if you can tell.”
Hariett gingerly touched the armor, and Liska saw that pieces of the Dullahan’s woman were oddly segmented. The [Pub Owner] frowned—then gasped.
“Wait, do they—?”
The pieces of the Dullahan’s armor slid together and covered the designs on her plate metal body. They hid the colorful artwork with some golden insignia that the Dullahan woman gestured at.
“This is just Pallass and Invictel’s regalia. Very respectable. I had someone do the actual colors myself. They lock into place so there’s no chance anyone sees what’s beneath. Unless I were in combat, but I’m into armor.”
“Oh? Altering Dullahan armor? Very respectable. I do something like Mirn’s job, myself.”
That was as much as they wanted to share, and the Dullahan woman nodded. She glanced at Liska.
“Hello, and you’re new! Are you from Liscor too?”
“Um, um—yeah. I’m L—”
Hariett elbowed Liska, and the Gnoll remembered not to give out names.
“This is my friend who works in the service industry. She’s new to all this. Very new.”
“Well, this is a welcome place, and Mirn is always very careful. It’s been hard to get together of late, so we’re all cutting loose, a bit. Watch pressure.”
Miss Hariett rolled her eyes.
“We just had some in Liscor. I know we’re going to talk later, but do you…dance? Or did you want to try some darts over there?”
She nodded to a dart-board that had just been vacated, and the Dullahan woman chuckled low. She put down her head on a table, and her body walked towards the bar.
“Darts sounds lovely. I could get a drink for us. You have to wait because Mirn can’t make anything decent. His one flaw. At least he got food this time instead of making any…oh, would you take my head over with us to the dart board?”
She casually flicked her eyes over to the dart board, which made Liska think the Dullahan woman had put her head down on purpose. Hariett kicked Liska in the shins.
“Liska, why don’t you check on Vakki?”
“But I like d—”
Another kick. This time, Liska got the message and backed away. She sat back down at the table with Vakki.
“Vakki. Did you see that? She’s not just flirting, she’s Tier 7 flirting.”
Vakki wasn’t paying attention. She was sitting with a Garuda maybe five or six years older than they were. He was rolling his eyes, and he’d painted his beak, Liska realized, like someone else might apply lipstick, but not just on the tips; there was a lightning-like design all over the beak, very cool-looking.
“If you think this is a party, believe me, Mirn’s all straight-laced. He’s the best Sentry, though. No one ever gets picked up. There are plenty of other parties between us younger people.”
“Really? How dangerous?”
He grinned.
“Very. Sometimes, you get the Watch busting in—then you just jump out the window, even if the hotel’s on the sixth floor! Not a problem for me, but…”
“No way, that’s so crazy. Hey, you know I’m taken, right?”
She flashed her ring at him, and the Garuda didn’t miss a beat as he laughed.
“Miss, I’m not blind. I’m just inviting both of you! As for the jumping out the window thing—you have to. Here you get arrested, and it’s noted down as ‘indecency’. Once you have a record…you can sort of argue it, but the more times the more obvious it is. All the olds tell us not to be risky, but you have to live, right? We have one night where anyone who wants to, y’know, find out comes to the party and sees how far they want to go. No pressure. And if you just want a safe place to be with someone—you should take your [Lover] sometime! I can give you a list of dates…”
“She’s locked up in her rooms. Her family’s marrying her off.”
The Garuda’s wings bristled. He produced something and flashed it between his clawed fingers.
“Locked up? So what? Need a lockpick? Damn, you’re Liscorian, right? Otherwise, I’d say just let me fly down, unlock the window, and grab her. But old Mirn would never let us do that in another city. Too noticeable for a Garuda.”
Liska sat down at the table and was introduced. The Garuda casually produced something: a little rack of bottles and a brush.
“Want me to do up your scales or claws, Vakki? It comes off in a wash very fast. No traces.”
Vakki instantly stuck her claws out.
“Can you do something on my cheek? Like a heart with an arrow in it?”
“Vakki! You’re not supposed to do names!”
The Drake shrugged. She gazed around the bar, eyes a bit moist.
“I know, but it doesn’t matter. I won’t be coming back anyways. I just wish I’d known this place existed before, or that Liscor had one. It’s so…beautiful.”
The Garuda slipped a second, and had to clean off Vakki’s claws he was dyeing like a blooming flower. He and Liska turned to Vakki, and before either could speak—
Mirn bopped Vakki on the head, demonstrating that he too knew the Vakki reset method. But the [Protector]’s fist was as gentle as his voice.
“None of that now. I hear you two are in some trouble, kid. Well, Miss H over there says her people are working on the issue, but if they can’t do anything, we’ll help too. And believe me, no single stubborn Drake family is a match for Pallass’ Turnscales united. So watch your damn mouth, and you, Loverbird, better keep your beak closed on anything you hear!”
‘Loverbird’ blew a kiss at Mirn and waggled his feathers.
“I’ll do it for a kiss, Mirn.”
“Hah. Kiss someone else’s ass, you brat.”
Mirn flapped his hands at Loverbird, then sat down. Vakki’s face was hungry, but doubtful.
“How can you do anything? Lizze’s getting married in a month! It’s already arranged!”
The [Protector] sighed, then whistled, and another Drake came over and pulled up a seat; he looked very posh and official in a suit, but he’d stuck a blue rose into the side of his spectacles. It made him completely different from the stuffy Drake that Liska would have dreaded to talk to. Mirn caught the other Drake up to speed, as well as a few other adults who’d drifted over.
“Plenty we can do, Vakki. A month? That’s enough time to work on both sides. Either you have someone put a word in the family’s earholes that, hey, this marriage is too sudden, why are you pressuring your daughter into something she’ll regret? Or if they’re too stubborn for that, you ruin the other side. Put some rumors out that this is just a ploy for money, that your [Lover]’s family are affiliated with the gangs.”
Vakki and Liska blinked. Do all that? Vakki protested.
“But how? No one would believe us!”
The Drake with the blue rose snorted.
“Not you two. But respectable gossip? And even if they get to finalizing the marriage, as Loverbird says, there’s a lot of time to get someone out who doesn’t want to be there. She doesn’t want the marriage, correct?”
“No! We’re married! We’re the ones in love!”
Blue Rose smiled at Vakki.
“Child, we’re not doubting, just making sure. In that case, she won’t make it to that altar. We promise. I wonder how Liscor wants to swing it?”
Mirn glanced around the room.
“Once Miss H stops dancing with Seaswirl, we’ll ask. But the simplest thing would be to forge two Grade 2 passports for them. Just in case.”
Blue Rose grumbled.
“Simple, you say. Getting ahold of the official paper and stamps isn’t easy.”
“I’ve got some from Onieva. I’ll work up two if Liscor needs it. You just watch that young, young Miss. And try not to let Loverbird sucker you into ‘fun’ with his friends. You lot play too fast and loose. You’ll all have Yellow Rivers in a month if you’re not more careful.”
Loverbird lost his smile and hunched his shoulders.
“We’re careful, Mirn!”
“Careful? Do you actually use protection?”
“Mirn—”
To Liska’s astonishment, the frank and graphic conversation actually made Blue Rose appear more uncomfortable than Vakki. He shifted to her instantly.
“I’m Pinrose, Miss. Your first time here? Are you from Liscor?”
“Oh, I thought it was ‘Blue Rose’ or something. I’m, uh, I’m—me.”
He grinned at her and shook her paw.
“Don’t let me keep you if you want to have fun, but I was actually going to ask if you knew anything about recent events in Liscor. There’s always something new, and odd, there. First that Shield Spider glue, next…? Do you have anything I should keep abreast of?”
She blinked, confounded by the question.
“New stuff? I mean, Valeterisa’s doing her academy, and I guess the New Lands is big, but…”
“Hold on, hold on. What about the Archmage of Izril and an academy?”
He was fascinated and took actual notes in shorthand as she talked. Pinrose knew more about Liscor and the north than Liska did!
“So you actually see the Order of Solstice?”
“Yep. Sometimes. They’re always on quests; why?”
The Drake blinked at her.
“Because…they’ve been fighting. I heard it was fourteen [Knights] against four. They fought the Order of Clairei Fields. It was a minor incident in the newspapers I buy, along with Taimaguros being in the north.”
“Really? Are they okay?”
Pinrose could only shrug.
“It sounded like both parties retreated with injuries, but it’s this business about…Vampires. It worries me, really. And Antinium in Liscor! Eugh, how do you function with them about?”
It was odd. He had all the foibles and misconceptions of any Drake. Liska began to correct the score on Antinium and Goblins to Pinrose’s frank incredulity, but she caught herself after a second.
“Wait, wait. Just one question. You are a…Turnscale, right?”
She hesitated on the word, and she saw his face freeze up before he smiled toothily. Liska flushed under her fur and sipped her beer.
“Sorry, I just…it’s so weird. I know Drakes and Gnolls who like other men. I do. It’s just…”
You’re old. But she didn’t mean that as rudely as Vakki. Liska meant it in the way that she sometimes didn’t think that adults were like her. As in, they had…sex…but it was weird to imagine them getting anything out of it other than children.
As if adults were another species, but it would only be a year or two before she was considered a full adult. She technically was.
However, to her, Pinrose seemed a world away, even more than Asgra or the Antinium. And perhaps he sensed that, because the Drake brushed at the flower in his spectacles, then turned his head.
“Like them?”
She saw more little flowers braided into his neck spines. Liska had never seen anyone with the look before.
“Oh, whoa. That’s so pretty.”
It was like he had ‘hair’ blooming, it was so subtle. And it wasn’t an expensive look or anything. It was literally flowers, cheap, fresh-for-a-day ones, attached with nothing but thread and a bit of wire artfully hidden.
“It takes nearly an hour to do with a mirror. It’s faster with help, but I want to look right when I come here.”
“An hour? I don’t do anything for an hour! I can’t even use the toilet for more than thirty minutes when I’m reading a book on break.”
Liska burst out, and Pinrose began chuckling as she turned red again. Then he sat back, nodding.
“Neither do I, really. My job is…well, I can’t say, but it pays well enough I think, and it’s important. But you’d never catch me working on a file for an hour as hard as I do with a little mirror. Then I come here under illusion spells, even though I’m sweating through my costume, and I’m terrified. Because it matters that much to me. All my friends are here. It didn’t use to be that way, you know.”
He had pale grey-blue scales, and he brushed at the flower again, then plucked it out of his spectacles to stare at it.
“I…haven’t ever been with someone in the community. I haven’t worked up the courage, and I don’t—am I a Turnscale? It sounds like such a dirty word, even now. I’m ashamed to say it. But it started with this. Flowers.”
“Flowers?”
She didn’t follow. For Liska, the path to Turnscaleness had been like stepping into a pit. She’d fallen into it the moment she wanted to kiss another woman, and that was that. But Pinrose? He murmured.
“I was a lot younger. Practically your age, but maybe a few years older when I was passing by a boutique. And I saw a flower just like this one, and I thought, ‘it would look dashing if I put it in my spectacles, just like this’.”
He glanced up, and Liska saw it, then. Pinrose added.
“I never did. It was this treacherous little thought I had for years. I passed that damn boutique every day after work, and I’d see a new flower and imagine this amazing way to add it to clothing. My neck spines. This concept? You like it?”
“I do. It’s awesome. My girlfriend…my former girlfriend would love the look, because it wouldn’t cost much, right?”
“Nine coppers if you buy the right flowers on sale. I have illustrations. It became a sickness. I learned to sketch—me. Everyone at work thought I was developing a [Sketcher] class to make myself better at my job. Instead, I had booklets of designs. Clothing. Not all of it good, but…years.”
Pinrose sipped from a straw and gazed around the club, and when Liska turned her head, she saw more art on people’s bodies, like Loverbird, the dancing Dullahan and Hariett’s apparel, Rose—
“I tried just once. I put the most handsome rose I could on a suit, and everyone thought it was fine. Fetching. I was asked who I was seeing and who put it together. I tried it the next day and got an odd look and comment. Into the trash went the flower! I lied and said it was someone I was seeing who just had to put flowers on me. Burnt half my artbooks and sat up vowing never to do it. Ashamed, wondering if I should find a [Healer] for what was wrong with me.”
The Drake sipped at his cup again, and Liska didn’t know what to say.
“But it’s just flowers.”
“For a Drake? A male Drake, Miss? You know how ridiculous it would be to wear them. Especially like…”
Pinrose shook his head out and the neck spines flexed, and swayed, almost like he had hair made of flowers. Vakki turned, and Rose, the Human, sighed. Liska saw it. It was a design she could only imagine a female Drake being allowed to wear. Pinrose lifted the flower again and smelled it.
“That’s all.”
Liska waited.
“Wait, what happened then?”
The Drake peeked up and smiled ruefully.
“Oh, I came back to it, of course. I swore not to, I’d ‘dally’, regret it, and then one day I must have taken a turn or seen someone wearing something provocative, something they shouldn’t wear. And someone said, ‘look at that Turnscale’, and I thought, ‘well, if that’s me, maybe I could wear that there.’ It took months to work up the nerve, let alone find this place. But Mirn finds you. That’s all I am. So tell me. Am I a Turnscale?”
He gazed at her with sharp green eyes, as if cut from the very gemstones Hariett wore on her shoelaces, and Liska faltered.
“I…I don’t know.”
“Neither do I! Mirn has a philosophy. If I don’t fit out there, I’m welcome here. So, over the years, I found I made more friends here than at work. I share my latest fashion tips here, I help out where I can, but mostly? I dress up once a week—or less if it’s dicey—and I come out here. It’s the most exciting, important moment I’m waiting for. I feel alive here.”
Pinrose sipped from his drink again and sighed. Then he eyed Liska, who sat, thinking deeply.
“But I’m still afraid of going further. I swear, but for the obsession with looking better than an idiot in typical Drake clothing, I wasn’t a Turnscale in any way. Now? Sometimes I wonder…but I’m afraid. Like I’m standing on the edge, and if I let myself try anything more, I’ll fall completely in.”
“Why not? I mean, you don’t hafta do anything. It sounds like you sort of want to try…”
Liska was curious, and Pinrose shuddered.
“Why, because it’d ruin my life, Miss. Not in the sense that it’d change anything, but I’d be—tainted. I’d be the deviant, the monster. Everything that I’m told a Turnscale is. I’m embarrassed by the thoughts, but they work. Someday, I’m sure, I’ll have a moment when I say to Rhir with it all and take a risk.”
He put his claws together, smiling with something beautiful and fragile.
“I hope I’m not too old, by then, to regret it.”
After a moment, he turned to Liska and coughed, then flushed.
“I am sorry, but that’s my little speech.”
Liska didn’t know what to do, but Rose had heard and applauded gently. She wasn’t the only one. Several others had listened, though it seemed they had heard Pinrose’s tale before. He stood up, flushing, and took a theatrical bow, then sat.
“We do get asked, us olds. And it helps to explain who we are and how we got here. Mirn’s story is far better and simpler.”
“Ah, Pinrose, you’re the one who makes people think. Too many kids or even newcomers come in here thinking they know what a Turnscale is. There’s no room for other definitions.”
They’d clearly had this little discussion before; Pinrose’s entire speech had the air of practice, but the Drake still bowed his head and looked at the roses. He couldn’t meet Mirn’s eyes.
“I know all that. I’m a good object case. I just…I’m embarrassed to look younger people in the eye, like Miss L here, and tell them I can’t even go further than this. I’m ashamed to be me.”
He seemed to shrink in his seat, and once more, Liska didn’t know what to say. She turned to Mirn, and the [Protector] said:
“I’m not ashamed of you, Pinrose. Or of anything that’s in me, or any one of us.”
He poured refills for Pinrose and Liska and sat with his hip on the table. Mirn turned to Liska, and he grinned.
“Rose, for all she’s a pain in my tail, has been good about talking members of the bar up. She’s what I want more people to be. Unashamed. Everything the cities tell us makes you feel like you’re doing something wrong. The cities are wrong. They get in your head, and I know how easy it is to hate yourself: that’s the most Drake thing in the world.”
He nodded at Liska, tapping his chest and growing serious. Then he nodded at Pinrose.
“Whenever you feel that, just look at someone you know who’s a Turnscale. And ask yourself: are you ashamed of them?”
“That’s such a good idea.”
Liska blurted out, face lighting up. Mirn snorted.
“I know. I came up with that trick. I’ve heard people say they wish they’d been born not being Turnscales. Me? I wouldn’t trade this for anything. Imagine if I were that less interesting or Pinrose didn’t have his style. Without it, what’s he got?”
“Hey, you [Rogue]. Don’t go buttering my scales up.”
Pinrose tried to jab at Mirn with his claws, but he was smiling. Mirn slung an arm around Pinrose’s shoulders and squeezed hard.
“Just keep showing up with your lovely self, and we’ll have you loving yourself like we love you, our more beautiful ‘Rose.”
Pinrose blushed, and his tail curled around Mirn’s for a second.
“You flirt. Watch out for him, Miss.”
“Oh, if you think I’m bad, let’s introduce Liska to Roseblush next. See that Drake singing karaoke? Ugh, he’s a menace with the microphone.”
Liska turned, and a Drake with rose scales that were definitely painted was singing bare-chested next to a Dullahan, dancing around. She grinned before Mirn looked to her.
“So, what do you think, Miss?”
Mirn topped up both’s mugs. Liska turned to the [Protector].
“What do I think about what?”
“Pinrose’s story.”
Liska was silent.
“I—don’t know. It sucks to not be able to wear flowers. It’s silly to have to want it for years and years and never get to do it because you’re afraid of what people think.”
Mirn winced, but Pinrose was smiling. Liska, flustered, raised her paws.
“I don’t mean that against you, Pinrose! I just mean it sucks because it’s like that.”
“Exactly. It bothers no one except, I suppose, if they have to look at me. But I am keenly aware of what would happen if I wore this in my day-to-day life. Let alone anything more.”
Pinrose put in, and Mirn swabbed the table with a cloth.
“Got a story to share, ‘L’? No pressure.”
Liska hesitated and then shrugged.
“Me? I dunno. I saw two male Drakes kissing in an alleyway one day and I thought I had to try that with a girl. That’s all.”
Everyone laughed at that, but Mirn just hugged Liska, grinning.
“That’s about my story, with a bit more running around trying to find someone to kiss. And being in the army. Good job, kid.”
“For what?”
“Getting a girl to kiss you! Unless Liscor’s so deprived that all eight Turnscales just take turns with each other!”
The [Doorgnoll] grinned.
“Oh, right. I’m great at meeting new girlfriends. I haven’t managed to get anyone like, um, V and her [Lover], though.”
Her face fell as she thought of Shashi, but Pinrose just chuckled and shook his head.
“That’s common, Turnscale or not, Miss L. Believe me, I’ve attended enough of my normal peers’ weddings only to have them divorce in a year or two—but we’re keeping you from the fun.”
“Oh, right. Go wild, kid. Anything goes here, except hard drugs. No Hazyflower, no Selphid Dust, but anything light—you can try it as long as you’re not bringing trouble getting it. Get drunk, kiss someone, but ask first. I don’t care if it’s embarrassing. Also, protection if you need it.”
“Protection? What kind?”
Mirn rubbed at his forehead and showed her an object she definitely wouldn’t need to use any time in her life: a little goatskin condom.
“We had a scare with the Yellow Rivers when it was running around. Not bad, and we got the cure fast, but it had us sweating. Rose was very insistent. Me, I’m more worried about inappropriate relationships.”
“What, here? What kind?”
Mirn gave Liska a level look.
“Anyone who can’t take ‘no’ for an answer, or who gets pushy. Anything you hear about in the fine, ‘normal’ folk—it can happen here. Only, in our community we’re all stuck together so sometimes we tolerate bad behavior too much. Most of us are lovely, decent people. However, there’s always bastards in a group, and I’m the one who deals with them. So if anyone treats you odd—you tell me. Got it?”
She nodded, and his warning made her feel better Mirn had said it. Mirn really was a Sentry, someone who protected a community. Liska turned to Pinrose.
“And are you an Architect, then?”
Pinrose choked on his drink.
“Me? Hardly! Those are big names in the communities, Miss L! I just do tasteful designs and help out here and there.”
“Not everyone’s got to be one of the three, L. It’s hard, dangerous work, and if you’re someone everyone knows, at some point people will come searching for you. I get by because I have the right Skills and I have a system. Miss H over there occupies my role.”
“But she doesn’t do this for us.”
Liska had a plaintive note in her voice as she waved a paw around, and Mirn shrugged.
“Each one to a different style. She does what she can, and anything is better than nothing.”
Liska thought of Hariett’s, which was always open for people and where she went and had met so many girlfriends and friends alike. She sighed.
“I guess. But…”
There was something beautiful about Mirn’s bar, even though Rose had told Liska that it would be torn down after only one meeting, how much work it was to set up. It was so—
Reassuring. As Liska got up, she found that plenty of people her age did leave the dancing or chatter to come to the side. And then they’d wave at someone they knew, or approach an older Turnscale, and…talk.
Sometimes, ask for help. She overheard one Drake younger than she was talking earnestly with a Gnoll who couldn’t be twenty or more.
“I just want to tell my sister.”
“Don’t. You have to be absolutely sure, Necky, and even then…
He had a kiss mark on his neck scales. He hunched over.
“But I just want to—”
“Think about what happens if you’re wrong. Hey, hey, Mirn, can you talk with…?”
The Gnoll waved over Mirn to have a word with Necky, and he was stern, but gentle as he laid out the potential downsides and contrasted it with the upsides. At another table, a Gnoll had a problem, but it wasn’t something so convoluted as her identity.
“I just can’t do this dance routine for school!”
She wailed, and she was almost in tears, apparently a student in, well, school. Half the people at the table turned.
“Hey, Glideclaw, can you give our friend a lesson? You’ll like Glideclaw. She’s the best dancer you’ll ever meet.”
Another Drake who was Liska’s age bounded over, and she moved like something fluid and graceful as the Gnoll girl stood up, in awe. Liska eyed the beautiful [Dancer] and peered for somewhere to put her drink down, because suddenly she wondered if she could buy a drink—for Glideclaw.
However, before she could edge over and turn up the Liska charm, Liska saw Pinrose sitting with Hariett, Rose, and a number of the more responsible, elder Turnscales, and she had to slow to listen in.
“It is getting harder in Liscor. Mostly, it’s the Watch. They’re asking questions. Pallassian doctrine.”
“That’s our fault. Though if you think it’s bad here—the raids have been ten times more frequent than under Chaldion.”
A male Dullahan coughed.
“Under Chaldion recently. He used to be just as bad, if not worse, Pinrose. But it is true. I was told you were low on funds?”
Hariett blushed.
“I…we do well enough, but it’s more of a get-together among older members of the community. The kids run around, and we’re not exactly able to pool our gold. We put money together, but the fine for Miss V, there, that was high.”
“Let’s see if we can’t help with whatever you’re doing. We should have made contact ages ago. But take this, if you need money for bail.”
A Drake pushed over a bag, and Hariett blinked as it opened and gold spilled out. She hesitated, studying him.
“You’re sure?”
He had ostentatious pink scales that were clearly dyed or illusory for the night. And he winked.
“We’ve got a big Architect that can help with this. We don’t waste gold, but our best member is high-level.”
“Anyone seen her lately?”
“She might be laying low. Let’s not talk names yet in front of Miss H.”
“Still, I’d love to attend a meeting in Liscor. But the risk of going through the door…they keep logs.”
“Who can find an excuse that can keep them there? Pinrose?”
“Oh, no. I could never represent us.”
“Why not? What would they do, shame you for not being Turnscale enough? Then they’ve got a problem with all of us—”
Hariett assured Pinrose no one would find anything wrong with him as they gabbled, and he blushed again. So she kissed him on the cheek.
“If you teach me how to do those roses, I’ll put you up in my apartment!”
“I—oh, you flirt. Look at her, she’s trying to sweep me off my feet.”
“Foul! Pinrose is our precious flower, and we won’t have some Liscorian come in and drag him down into degeneracy when we’ve been trying for ages!”
Good-natured laughter, and Hariett snorted.
“This fellow? He’s no shrinking violet; I can tell. As I told Mirn, we don’t quibble over who’s a Turnscale and who’s not. I’ve seen it in other cities, and it’s ugly. Big E, our leader, didn’t want any part of it either.”
Satisfied nods, and Pinkscales nodded as Liska was drawn back over, helplessly, because she wanted to know. Pinrose saw her hovering and pulled out a chair. She sat down, and the adults glanced at her, but no one told her to get lost or that this wasn’t for her. They let her stay.
That meant something.
“Excuse me, um…what do you mean about being a real Turnscale? Like who’s going to ban Pinrose? Sorry if that’s a stupid question.”
Liska mumbled, but the others just nodded at her, and Pinkscales explained.
“I’m Roseblush. Don’t laugh at the name; I chose it twenty years ago.”
“You’ve been here twenty years?”
He flashed a grin at her.
“Oh, yes. This community is centuries old, didn’t you know? One of the longest even in the Walled Cities.”
“Though no one knows how long we’ve been around in one form or another. I speculate from our records it could be thousands of years. Tens of thousands.”
Another Drake put in, and the male Dullahan rolled his eyes.
“You want to believe it. You’ve got no proof, Quilly. To answer your question, Miss. Sometimes, certain members of the community are not…believed like the others. Such as Pinrose, who isn’t as obviously Turnscale as, say, Roseblush.”
“Or anyone who takes both sides of the scale. Flipscales, they’re called. But I think that’s splitting hairs. Is it any less dangerous or makes you less of what we are to want it all ways?”
“Makes it easier to hide who you are if you can just turn it off.”
“But you can’t turn it off, you’re just staying on the safe half that people tell you to! It’s not fair. As for those who feel all switched up inside—Switchscales, they’re called, young woman—”
“Shh, don’t confuse the new girl with all the politics. That’s the saddest part of communities fighting. We’re all open-minded at Mirn’s bar. Other communities in Pallass? Less so.”
Liska turned from face to face.
“No, I want to know! What’s a Switchscale? There are other communities?”
The Dullahan, who looked like a big, stereotypical Dullahan aside from how he talked, winked at Liska, and his face was more animated and friendly as more people scooted in. Roseblush instantly sat on the Dullahan’s lap and wiggled around innocently. Several of the adults rolled their eyes. Pinrose pinched Roseblush.
“Behave in front of the kids.”
Liska was as wide-eyed as Vakki, who’d come over with Glideclaw of all people. Liska instantly got distracted and shyly waved at the [Dancer], who smiled back. Vakki winked at Liska.
Vakki was awesome. Liska’s best friend. The Dullahan, who just called himself Bigarmor, explained.
“Switchscales confuse me, and I’ll let Mirn explain that. But other communities? Certainly. We know for a fact there are a few of the high-ranking members of Pallass who know each other. Whether or not they meet, they have an arrangement. Nothing to do with us.”
The other Turnscales glowered. Liska ventured a guess.
“Because they’re important and it’s risky to talk to them?”
“Because they do nothing. They’re content to pass laws that harm us or let the Watch arrest and beat us, so long as they’re safe. And other groups just can’t stand the risk of meeting like we do. Don’t trust new, young members to keep their mouths shut. It is risky. We have to fight to keep our bar alive. We’ve had to fight more and more. It’s feeling like the old days under younger Chaldion again.”
That comment from Roseblush made everyone go quiet. Liska couldn’t believe her ears.
“You fight? The Watch?”
“The Watch, soldiers—it’s not us. It’s our Architect. She can clear…”
“I still think we shouldn’t escalate. If we just cleared out faster—”
That came from Pinrose, and Roseblush pointed a claw at him.
“Respectfully, lovely ‘Rose, the Watch is a bully. They never stop. I was a kid growing up in the old days, and when the Watch hauled you in, everyone ran because they’d get names out of anyone they tortured. Tortured. These days, it’s different because we pushed back, but if it comes to getting caught or running, you fight. Because it’s all over once they parade your name out; even if they let you go…”
Pinrose touched something on his belt.
“I know. I know, Roseblush. I guess I’ve just been in denial. I don’t want it to get worse.”
Roseblush embraced Pinrose and spoke, burying his head against the other Drake’s shoulder.
“Me neither. I’m not brave as she is. I don’t want it either. But we can’t let them think they can just bash their way in and grab us all. Because they will. They have to think twice. If the rank-and-file boots don’t hesitate, they’re a minute faster to storm a bar or run down some poor kid on the street. And then they catch more of us.”
Everyone was nodding. Another Garuda turned to Liska and Vakki, not quite changing the subject but trying to lighten the mood.
“It’s not all fighting with the Watch, kids. We’re just the biggest group, so we’re the nail that stands out. There might be dozens of groups like us in Pallass alone.”
“That’s an exaggeration.”
“Is it? How many Turnscales are there in a city? One in a hundred? One in a thousand? For a city of so many millions—”
“How many Turnscales are out there and never know who they are? Or are too scared to admit it?”
Hariett murmured into her drink, and everyone fell silent. Liska was glancing at Vakki, and both of them shared a thought.
I wish I had come here years ago. If Liska could have come to a bar like this, once a week, to just…ask questions or meet people, somewhere where it wasn’t embarrassing or—or strange.
That was it. Even with her friends, if she was too obvious about flirting with Shashi in public, someone would warn her, or they might give each other samples of the latest trends, but no one was like—Roseblush.
Or experimental like Loverbird painting nails or claws. There was something else here, and Liska didn’t know the word for it. Rose did.
“This is real gay culture, Liska. Like the old speakeasies in my home, but—different. Fewer good drinks, for one.”
Everyone chortled at this, and Mirn came over to slap one of the pub’s menus on Rose’s head.
“You ingrates! Rose, go relieve Bouncer, would you? She’s been standing watch for hours; she should have asked to trade off. Who’s volunteering to watch the door?”
“That’s me.”
Glideclaw leapt up, and Liska half-rose.
“I could, um, help too. I’m good with entrances.”
Pinrose raised his brows, but Glideclaw smiled at Liska, and the Gnoll followed. Rose was speaking louder as the others heckled her gently.
“No, see, this is what I’m talking about. You don’t think you have it, but you do. We have to organize! Liscor’s the first step!”
“Rose, we’re all for meeting other cities the door can connect us to, but we have to be careful. Especially now. You say you’re from somewhere where Turnscales are out in the open. Well, where?”
“I, uh—argh, it’s a long story.”
“I’ve heard this one. Miss Rose, I’ll buy all your terms, but the story’s far-fetched.”
Rose turned to Mirn, desperate. He was polishing a mug as he leaned against the bar.
“Mirn, vouch for me.”
“Nothing doing, kid. You want a war, and we’ve seen how wars are fought. Get Onieva on board.”
“But—!”
Liska followed Glideclaw away and over to the door, and the other voices and noise overwhelmed her ears’ ability to selectively listen in. She knew Rose was an Earther, but the other Turnscales didn’t. Glideclaw was brushing at her neck spines at the doorway.
“We take turns with Bouncer to make sure only people we know are let in. We have a passphrase, or we ask questions if we don’t recognize who it is—we get spies a lot, you know. Glideclaw. You’re from Liscor, right? With Miss V? She told me her name, which she shouldn’t have.”
“R-really? I’m, uh, L. Vakki, I mean, V’s desperate.”
“I heard. I’m a [Dancer]. Everyone knows that. What’s Liscor like? We’ll just tell Bouncer she can step inside; she’s scary, but trust me, she’s so sweet.”
“I, uh, well, you know. Liscor. Antinium, Goblins, a war or two. Nothing big. I saw the Wyvern attacks on Pallass, so you know what it’s like. We get monster attacks all the time.”
Liska rubbed her claws on her fur, trying to appear casually cool. Glideclaw eyed her.
“I hid in my dance hall with everyone else when that happened. Do you really have Antinium on the streets?”
“Sure do. I know tons. Hey, you could visit if you ever wanted to. I’d give you a tour.”
Glideclaw’s eyes lit up, then her face fell.
“I’d love to! But…I don’t know, it’s risky.”
“Hey, I happen to, uh, know the doorperson who operates the [Door of Portals]. I could get you in and out, no problem. Plus, it’s rainy in Liscor, you know. Floodwater season. It’s always wet, and the water rises up to the walls.”
Glideclaw shuddered.
“I read that in a book on Izril’s strangest cities! How could anyone live like that? Raining nonstop? I get depressed if it rains for three days straight! I can’t imagine months of it.”
Liska cleared her throat as they stopped by the front door, which was actually a very cool, revolving type. Mirn had pasted a bit of wood on the glass panes so you couldn’t see through if it was closed. She leaned against the revolving door, casual.
“Well, I think it’s great, actually. It’s kissing season in Liscor right now.”
“Wh—kissing season?”
Glideclaw did a double take, and Liska waggled her eyebrows.
“Definitely. It’s in the air and stuff. And because it’s so rainy, no one can tell, even if you’re kissing in the street, who’s who.”
“Oh. Oh. That’s…so risky! I’ll have to try that.”
“Anytime you want to visit—I know a great set of lips.”
“Really? Whose? Rose’s? Miss H?”
“Huh? Miss H!?”
Liska leaned back in outrage and nearly went tumbling out of the revolving door. Liska went stumbling around the turnstile, swearing. Glideclaw was giggling nonstop as she bent to help Liska up, which was a good sign, or so Liska hoped.
“Sorry, Bouncer. We came to relieve you.”
The Drake was grinning around the actually well-illuminated streets with hanging [Light] spells on the lovely 6th. She was speaking to a huge Drake woman leaning up against the pub entrance. Not that she was needed; the shuttered pub had been altered to appear empty from the outside and had soundproofing spells laid on it. Bouncer was indeed huge. As Liska got up, she put out one claw and grabbed Liska.
“Wh—hey. Sorry, I—”
“Get back inside, now. Glideclaw, get Mirn. Tell him we’re surrounded. I count at least four squads.”
The low, taut voice from the Drake took Liska out of her giddy mood. Glideclaw stiffened, and they realized Bouncer had put an arm out. Shielding their faces from…Liska tried to peek up, and Bouncer half-swivelled.
“S-surrounded?”
“I wasn’t sure. I had two busybodies walk up who I think were [Guards]. They’re sneaking up this time. Get Mirn, Glideclaw. Go!”
Glideclaw moved for the turnstile. Liska glanced up. She saw Bouncer turn, and the Drake’s eyes were wide with fright. Silently, Liska backed up into the second slot of the turnstile. Bouncer squeezed in with her.
“The Watch…?”
“Yep. Keep your head down, don’t use any names, and follow a senior out. Don’t go back home until you know you’ve lost them. Got it?”
“Y-yeah, I know.”
This wasn’t Liska’s first time evading angry [Guards], but never had she been at a party of Turnscales and they’d known she was…her stomach suddenly constricted. Liska glanced over her shoulder and swore she saw figures in the darkness. Or maybe it was her imagination. Crouched ranks of silent watchers—
Surrounding the pub.
Glideclaw had already said something when Liska and Bouncer popped into the pub; the Drake woman found a chair and wedged it in the turnstile, but there was an actual door right next to the revolving door in case it jammed. The room had gone dead silent, the fun, jovial attitude gone. Everyone was silent.
Fear in the air. Mirn stood on a table, voice calm, not loud, but audible.
“You know the drill, everyone. [Emergency Exit]. Go in waves.”
Someone was already prying up the door to the cellar larder. What should have been just a storage area apparently contained something Mirn always had with him: a way out. Liska saw people slipping down the hatch as Bouncer put a chair under the doorknob, then strode over.
“Mirn, there’s four squads—”
“I know. Out, out, out. Everyone, grab everything you can see. I’ll douse it all in de-scenting liquid. Keep going for the doors!”
Mirn was sweeping the bar, grabbing everything. Pinrose was hunting for his flowers, and Glideclaw was looking around for someone she’d come with. Liska was trembling, eyes wide, as Hariett and Vakki joined her. They were heading for the cellar when someone came back up, fighting against the bodies pressing downwards.
“Back up—back—Mirn! Miiirn! They’re at the back entrance!”
Mirn froze. He whirled on his heel.
“You saw them?”
“My [Advanced Dangersense] went off just in time.”
It was the young Gnoll who had wanted help with her dancing. She was shaking as more bodies heaved up the ladder, people climbing up, now white with terror.
“They’re outside. I see them skulking in an alleyway. Two squads, Mirn. T-they found the—”
Mirn’s voice was calm.
“What about the third exit?”
“They’re at both [Emergency Exits], Mirn. Both of them.”
The [Protector] went still. He stared down at the floor.
“Someone told them. Or they figured out that the [Emergency Exit] has to connect to the pub and they just put squads everywhere. Okay, silence.”
No one said a word. Now, the stink of terror was worse than Liska remembered with Skinner. She felt sick, nauseated, and she turned to Mirn. Waiting for him to unveil [Emergency Exit 3, Fooled You Suckers].
Silently, the [Protector] pulled something up from underneath the bar’s counter. He spoke to Roseblush.
“I’m barring the [Emergency Exit] Skill. If we have to go out that way, I’ll lift the seal. Break through them and don’t stop running. Everyone, listen for my voice, Roseblush’s, or a senior’s. We’re going to make a hole. You get out and start running. Assume you’re being followed. Don’t go home. Go to a safe spot. If you think you’ve been identified, get out of the city.”
Liska’s head snapped around. She saw Glideclaw go dead white. Pinrose was clutching his shaking claws together, and Roseblush was grimly glancing around, trying to count heads.
“Mirn—”
“They’re going to come through those doors with Tripvine Bags and smoke and flash spells. Everyone get clear of them. I can neutralize most of the first wave of alchemy. Anyone who can fight or has a combat class, step forwards. Kids, get back along the wall and pick up anything you can swing.”
—He wasn’t joking. He wasn’t—Liska looked for Hariett, and the Drake stepped forwards with Bigarmor, Roseblush, and even Pinrose. Liska heard a sound like a sob.
Then Bouncer bent down and snapped the leg of another chair off. Tossed one to Loverbird, who caught it and held it, pointed end out, and began throwing more pieces at other people in the inn. Rose stood there, panting.
“How’d they get—? Mirn, we have to get everyone out.”
“They’ve got my back door, Succubrat. No names. Remember, deny everything. This was the first time, this was a party someone invited you to…don’t speak in front of a truth stone. Don’t run until I tell you to go. They’re going to be waiting for runners.”
Mirn had a club in his claws. That was all. The [Protector] yanked something out of a bag of holding. A potion. He drank half, tossed it at Roseblush. Yanked another potion out, set it in his belt.
“Where’s Onieva? Where’s—?”
“Not here. She can’t always be here. Everyone back against the wall.”
Liska was searching for Vakki. The Drake [Lover] had gone for the bar, looking for a kitchen knife. She jerked back as someone came out of the kitchens. Loverbird.
He had—all the knives the pub had in the kitchen. He handed her one, and Vakki stared at him. Then he handed one to everyone. When he offered one to Liska, she showed him her belt knife. But she—
Was this a dream? It was like a beautiful dream, a bad one. She saw every Turnscale in the front, save for Glideclaw and Loverbird, were older. They were all afraid. They stank of it. Some were visibly trembling.
But they were also drawing weapons. Not clubs, not like Bouncer who was actually standing near the back with the terrified mob of younger Turnscales. Mirn glanced around.
“Don’t let them drag you out. Watch each other’s backs.”
“How do we tell who’s who?”
Bigarmor growled.
“Hit anyone wearing Watch or 1st Army armor. Mirn—”
“I know. They must have been preparing for this. If we make it out, I’ll do better. This is my fault.”
A few headshakes, and Roseblush snapped.
“It’s General Edellein’s fault! Is this what’s worth all this time, money? After 2nd Army died in the High Passes? Is this what—”
“Silence. We have to hear.”
Silence again, and now Liska could hear dozens of lungs panting for air. It was hot; the spring heat made sweat roll down her fur, and she heard shuffling outside. A scraping sound.
Mirn’s voice was too loud. He called out.
“Window detonation satchels. This is private property! You have no right to enter, nor will this go unsanctioned. Do you think you can blow down the walls of a pub on 6th Floor and not have every respected member of the community on you for that?”
The shuffling sounds stopped a second, and he shrugged.
“They might go through only the doors. Sounds like they think they have a reason.”
“They always have a reason.”
Someone muttered, and Liska wondered out loud.
“Am I dreaming? It was so pleasant. It really was.”
Hariett turned to Liska with an anguished expression in her eyes. It was Glideclaw who glanced over her shoulder and snapped back, no longer friendly or amused.
“It’s beautiful because they try to take it from us. Focus, L. When you hear someone say ‘run’, run! Until then, you fight.”
“That’s right.”
Mirn was walking down the room, and tables and chairs had been moved to the entrance, piled up in front of the doors when Liska hadn’t noticed. One of his Skills.
[Prepare Battlefield: Anywhere You Come for Us].
He paced up and down the line of Turnscales.
“No one runs. We hang or get out together. But also—don’t look back. What we know is that there are suspicious, unidentified people outside our legal gathering. We are going to defend ourselves with appropriate force.”
Another localized moment of silence caused by his words. Liska peeked over her shoulder, and she saw every Turnscale in the room was armed. Clubs, knives, chairs in the back.
Fight the Watch? She’d done that now and then, attacked them for being bastards, but this wasn’t punching or biting a single Watch officer. This was something bigger.
They’ve done this before. Liska drew the belt knife and saw the worn steel glinting. She almost sheathed it, then saw Loverbird nodding at her. He had two knives in his claws and…
“This is the Watch. By order of the Assembly of Crafts, we are investigating the premises under suspicion of violating Article 1 of Law 8. Public Decency. Put your weapons down and stand against the wall. Resist and you will be treated like criminals.”
A harsh, loud voice through the barricaded door. Mirn waited as the hammering of Liska’s heart grew louder, then called back.
“Anyone could say that. I am in fear for my life and those in my company. Have you drawn blades, officers? For a simple investigation.”
Silence.
Mirn bared his teeth.
“Sounds like a gang. Come on, you bloody boots. Do you think this is a good idea? There’s a purple-scaled Drake in here with us.”
“…You’ve been given your warning. Do not resist.”
Mirn sighed. And then his knuckles cracked on the club’s handle. They were coming. No one needed to tell the people inside that, but Liska could have told you exactly how many were outside.
Sixty-four, leaning against the windows they’d taken the detonation satchels away from, most clustered around the two doors, ready to burst through both. Someone had picked the lock. They did have weapons drawn.
Clubs and batons. And nets. They were wearing heavy leather armor and chainmail. Like they were on riot duty. Someone in the front had plate armor on.
She knew it. She was, after all, the [Portal Guardian]. Liska’s voice rasped; she babbled when she got nervous. Thoughtlessly, spilling what was on her mind. Like Erin; it was why she liked the [Innkeeper]. Because everyone respected Erin. She wished Erin was here.
“I—I thought there’d be a miracle. Bad things happen, but I never died or got hurt until now. I think that’s how it works. You always think, ‘it’s not gonna be me’. Until it is. And with us…it always is us.”
Some of the Turnscales near the front half-turned. Glideclaw opened her mouth, and Mirn glanced at Liska. No one said a word.
“I thought this was different. But it’s worse. Even if you get older. I thought it was just us—or that it was easier. But it’s not, is it?”
No.
They were so close to the 8th Floor, but Liska couldn’t form a connection to the [Door of Portals]. Anywhere else, maybe, or she’d be able to maybe do something with the door. But in Pallass, it was like a lead weight on any connections.
Anti-teleportation wards. The young Gnoll woman had tears in her eyes.
“When they come in, they’re going to beat us up, then arrest us. And then…if we’re lucky, they just exile us. Otherwise, you try and go home and there’s a mob. Or you just vanish. That’s why you run, right?”
She looked at Miss Hariett and remembered what she’d said to Zevara. Life or death. The [Pub Owner] said nothing, but the soft click was Liska’s answer.
Miss Hariett put her claws in the wide, ornamental belt buckle she wore, and two pieces of the metal belt slid outwards. There was a flash. Then two blades shot out of the handles.
[Flickclaw Blades]. She adjusted her grip, and they slid back into their sheaths. Hariett held her claws out, the hidden daggers almost invisible. She was preparing, readying herself for the moment someone got close to the unarmed woman to slash across a throat. Stab through an eyeslit or armpit.
Vakki twitched, eyes on Hariett and the blades even the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings respected. Then she heard a click. It was the sound of the Dullahan woman, the one with swirls of seashell color on her armor.
She had popped up a section of her armor on her arm. An inbuilt crossbow had clicked out, and she was loading it. Next to her, one of the older Drakes had put on brass knuckles. There was a sigh and then a faint hss of sound.
A glowing light split the dim pub light. Painful in its intensity. A beam of agony and death, silent as Pinrose ignited the kaalblade.
Mirn’s head turned, and he held out a claw. He mouth-whispered.
“Stow it.”
“What for?”
Pinrose held the kaalblade in his claws, and Mirn met his eyes. He stepped over, and Liska’s ears picked up the barely audible breath.
“They’re using clubs. When they go down, they’ll go to blades. They’ll ask who in Pallass bought one of those. Draw it then.”
Pinrose nodded and deactivated the enchantment, but he held the piece of innocuous wood in one claw. A weapon like Ryoka’s faeblade, which would cut through…
Well, they were ready. They had been ready. Was the Watch? Did they hear their [Dangersenses] ringing, ringing with such sound to tell them how bad an idea this was?
Liska’s voice was a whisper.
“I guess I didn’t think about it. I’m sorry. I don’t really think about things. I’ve…never really tried hard most of my life. And this is the first thing that matters to me. Really matters. Is it okay?”
Pinrose’s eyes slid back to her, and he closed them. The only place I feel alive. Liska went on, tears in her eyes, and she felt them tensing, outside and in.
“This matters. But I’m really afraid. I want to do something. But am I—am I allowed to do my best? To try even if it kills me? It’s easier if nothing matters. Is it okay if I care?”
Tears were matting the fur of her cheeks. Her shoulders shook, and she could barely stand. Voice wobbling like a cub’s.
No one looked at her. Every eye was fixed on the doorway. She didn’t even know if anyone had heard her until Mirn rasped one word.
“Yes.”
It was a weird kind of permission. Liska was glad he said it, because even if he hadn’t said it, she would have tried something anyways. But he said it like he needed her help.
Rose was shivering, holding a table leg, and there was a creak—
Then the Watch slammed the explosive vials, and the liquids inside detonated like thunderclaps as the first squads rushed forwards for the doors. They shouted as they came.
“On the ground! Hands up! H—”
They hit the unbroken doors and piled into one another. Inside the pub, Mirn lowered his claws from his face. He stared.
The explosive vials had gone off, but the doors hadn’t been breached. Instead, the vials had detonated outwards, hitting the armor of the squads. There was a cry.
“Guard down! Spell attack! Trap—”
“Failed breach! Failed breach! Get the ram—”
“Mirn. What kind of doors are…?”
Roseblush breathed. Everyone had flinched when the vials had exploded. Mirn shook his head.
“I didn’t do anything to them. I—”
His head came up and turned. Rose was twisted sideways. Vakki and Miss Hariett slowly peered over. Liska was staring at the two doors. A paw was raised. And she was whispering.
“Stop.”
Confusion outside. She could feel them milling around. Then someone brought something up. A hand-ram. Two took the enchanted ram and began to slam it into the door; another squad reset the explosive vials on the turnstile. Detonated them.
Whumph. Heavier.
Liska flinched. The ram swung with soft thunder. Enough force to break a steel door inwards with a few swings.
The doors shook.
Neither one opened. Liska was breathing harder. Her stomach hurt. Her arm shook, and she felt them pushing on the turnstile that refused to move now. A dozen claws, paws, and hands yanking. Grunting, cursing.
The ram swung again. And the doors cracked. Mirn was staring at Liska.
“Are you…?”
“No door lasts forever. Sanctuary ends.”
She looked at him, a dreadful certainty and memory in her eyes. He nodded.
“There’s no way out of here. We have to get through them.”
Oh. Okay. Liska concentrated. The ram was swinging. Again and again, and now—the Watch could see into the pub. Mostly darkness, as they pulled at pieces they’d literally smashed off the wood and found that the slivers of door seemed glued to each other. But then they were shouting.
“One, two, three, FOUR. One, two, three, FOUR—”
The ram swung with six arms combined, and Liska rubbed at her nose. It began to bleed the second time. She saw Rose reaching out.
“Lis—”
“—three, FOUR—”
The squad outside saw the door give way as the ram smashed through. It slammed open, and the surprised [Guards] stumbled into the pub, shouting.
“Breach, breach!”
The first squad rushed the gap. The second charged after them, abandoning the turnstile. A Gnoll [Patrol Captain] blew a whistle, charging after her buddies.
The door slammed into her face so hard it tossed her head-over-heels onto the street. Dazed, she lay there and heard the rest of her squad ramming into the door.
[Quick Doorslam]. And—when the second squad tried to get up and breach it—
It wouldn’t open. The broken-looking door was as hard as steel!
[Fourfold Reinforcement]. The [Patrol Captain] snarled.
“Get in there! Get in—”
She had heard nothing but deafening silence from inside the pub, the sounds of massed breathing. A single voice mumbling something. But now, she heard the shouting of the squad. And then—a single male voice, howling something.
The silence turned into massed shouting, screams—and the [Patrol Captain]’s blood ran cold as she heard a panicked voice from her linked speaking stone.
“Backup! Backup, where’s our—”
Sixteen members of the Watch entered the pub instead of the multiple squads ready to flood the building. They halted their charge as thrown Tripvine Bags and Smokepowder Satchels hit the ground and failed to activate.
When they didn’t hear more buddies at their back, they tried to retreat. The oldest Turnscales charged them before the squad could retreat half a dozen steps.
“You’re under arr—”
Mirn’s club struck the chin of the [Patrol Captain], and the Drake folded up. A Dullahan swung his club and gasped; went white.
A crossbow bolt was sticking out of his knee. He went down on one knee, and Roseblush swung a club down.
“[Oblivion Hit].”
“Squad 1 under attack! Reinforcements! Re—”
Half of the sixteen were down, and one went for a sword. He tried for a stab at Roseblush, and Miss Hariett grabbed him.
[Flip Throw]. She hurled the [Guard] head-over-heels, and they slammed onto the ground. When they went to get up, Loverbird kicked them in the helmet, and two more hit them with clubs. Mirn pushed them back after three blows.
“They’re out. Back up—back—”
Shouting from outside. Then the turnstiles swung, spinning in confused Watch officers. The door opened again, and there was a roar.
“Breach the building! I don’t care how! Breach both exits, now!”
This time, the Watch came in hard. Whatever Liska had done to block the door the first time, it was fighting against the bodies holding it open. Armored bodies pressing into the pub, but staggered. Mirn saw the turnstiles abruptly stop, then heard a curse.
He saw Drakes, fighting to keep the doors open, recoil as, suddenly, the front door burst into flames. The turnstile slowed; it was clogged, he realized. With spiderwebs. Huge ones.
Magic enchantments. He grinned.
The [Doorgnoll] holding the entryway was doing it all remotely, ignoring attempts to break the entryways fully. She was holding the windows too, he realized. Even his [Emergency Exit].
The Watch was trying to breach the Skill-based door, but a glowing seal had appeared over the basement entrance, and it—would not—give. They were deploying [Breach Fireballs] against it, and the glowing sigil refused to give.
But they were coming through the main doors. They had to. And the girl was no soldier, but her instincts were good.
Funnel them in waves. Don’t let them come in at once and crush us. They came in staggered and vanished.
A [Protector] swung his club into heads and legs, kicking down the Watch, fighting with brutal, economical grace learned on a battlefield. He wasn’t enough by himself, fast and hard as he hit, but there were dozens of Turnscales behind him, and they tangled with the Watch hard.
They were—fighting with the [Guards] and not giving ground.
 
——
 
Liska’s eyes widened as she gnawed on her lip, concentrating. Trying to keep them from coming in too fast. But it was a fight on the ground, and she saw Rose snarling, slashing a clawed hand at a Dullahan’s armor. She barely cut the leather before the angry Dullahan tried to tackle her, but five teens jumped him from behind, shouting, swinging—
That was the brawl closest to her. The highest-levelled people in the pub were at the front, and Liska was screaming, wishing her big brother were here, Bird, anyone from the inn—
Then she saw Miss Hariett throw another [Guard] across the room. And Roseblush hit another attacker who folded up and just dropped. But it was Glideclaw who was fighting with a swinging Garuda who came at her with a sap and buckler, striking nonstop. But she—leaned out of the way of one blow, which passed in front of her chin an inch away, ducked a swing, backstepped as he tried to bash her face with a buckler, stepping around him as he kept advancing, flowing from step to step as she swung a table leg with far less impact, hitting him on the face, arm—
But he never tagged her. The pattern the Drake [Dancer] wove through the fighting was hypnotizing. Incredible. She was dancing.
[Flowing Footwork]. [Phantom Grace].
She led the attacking Garuda straight into Pinrose, who tripped the Garuda up, and then they were kicking as he fell. And past them staggered Loverbird, whose beautiful beak was red with blood. He had it on his tunic and feathers, but it wasn’t his—
[Dire Peck]. Blood from a surprised Drake guardswoman’s chest, staring at the armor he’d gouged through in one blow. Liska’s head turned. Flashes—Vakki leaping past her to slash across another [Guard]’s face.
“[Agonizing Cut]!”
—A Gnoll boy diving under a thrown net.
“[Evasive Roll]! [Sand Throw]!”
Skills. Everyone was using Skills. Not normal ones, either, but combat Skills. Powerful Skills. Liska turned to Glideclaw, Loverbird, and realized they’d downed their opponents.
They were all…like her.
High level. Higher level than anyone their age. The reason Mirn hadn’t been that shocked by her level. Because he was used to it.
Turnscales. People who had learned to fight. The Watch was falling back again. They weren’t used to this. Liska gritted her teeth as she felt the turnstile sliding—the front door opened again, and another squad poured in.
Mirn turned, and someone walked through the doors in plate armor. A Drake wearing the insignia of 1st Army. He had an axe and shield in hand, and he snapped.
“Hold your ground, soldiers! [Hold the Line]! You—I recognize those moves, traitor. We’ll find you no matter if you’re active or retired.”
Mirn, panting, raised his club.
“Lot of former soldiers, brat. You think you’ve got a chance?”
Without a word, the [Captain] charged. Mirn hit his armor, shield, grunting, as he tried to batter down the Drake’s guard, but the [Captain] slashed with his axe, and Mirn barely dodged a cut to his chest.
He had no armor—the [Captain] had all of it and advanced, ignoring the heavy club blows. Mirn backed up as the Turnscales’ furious defense faltered. Higher level they might be, but they didn’t have training, weapons, armor. Liska saw Vakki go down, screaming, as someone tackled her. Bodies around her.
She was trying to hold the windows, the broken scraps of the doors. Liska saw Mirn stagger, glance down at a leg cut open despite having dodged the slash.
“Got you.”
The [Captain] shoulder-charged as a squad poured towards Mirn, and Liska’s eyes opened wide. Amel’s eyes met hers. She saw the Goblin King charging down the corridor and screamed.
“[Lesser Forcewall]!”
The [Captain] stumbled as he slammed into something; he began to hack at it, maneuvering around it, and Liska—pushed.
She shoved the door made of pure force into a wall, and the [Captain]’s back hit the wall. He gasped, tore free of the Skill, shouting.
“[Explosive Reposition]! Rally! Rally—”
He twisted and saw a wide-eyed Drake staring down at him. The [Guard] was pinned to the wall like a fly, rippling air flowing around him. The [Forcewall]. She’d pushed it at—
He saw the Gnoll, arms raised, and charged her before she could do it again. Her nose was bleeding as she stood there, panting, as he raised his axe.
“Never.”
He’d forgotten about Mirn. Mirn swung his club into the back of the [Captain]’s helmet. The Drake staggered and came around slowly, swinging wildly.
The club came up under his shield and slammed all the wind out of his stomach. He went over, and Mirn rotated. His final blow tossed the armored Drake back onto the floor. He lay there, gasping up at the ceiling like a fish, and Mirn put a foot on his chest. Bent down, yanked something up.
“Your field commander’s down. Unless you want the death of a [Captain] and every [Guard] in here on your claws, fall back.”
There was a pause, and Liska, gasping, lowered her paws. She gaped around, and the [Guards] she’d slammed into the wall hit the ground. Then she realized no one else was flooding into the pub.
They’d…won?
 
——
 
There was a pause when Mirn issued his threat to whomever was on the other side. Liska half-expected the Watch to attack again, but the ones inside were all down or playing dead. Not that she thought many were dead.
But there was blood everywhere. Vakki’s face was all bloodied, and Rose had a huge scratch down her cut shirt. Hariett was patching up someone who had a faceful of glass, but the Turnscales had won.
“They’re falling back. Everyone, get ready to run.”
Mirn called out, breathless, still standing on the [Captain]’s chest. Liska stared at him.
“What? What if they send reinforcements?”
“They’re getting reinforcements, but I told them I’ll slit everyone’s throats if they get within a thousand yards of either door. We’re going out the back. Then we scatter. Roseblush, take these and detonate them; they’ll fill the air with smoke. It’ll take away scent and won’t linger. Everyone, make sure you dispose of any clothes, cover any injuries—got it? I’ll find you; don’t come back next week.”
And then…then he was telling them to get ready to run, and Liska was waiting for the shoe to drop. She was last, with Miss Hariett and Vakki, and she panted as Mirn took his foot off the [Captain]’s chest at last. The Drake had passed out or something.
“Don’t run to the checkpoint. We’ll put you up for the night at my place. When I run, you follow, got it?”
He hissed at them, and she breathed.
“But how’d we win? They’re the Watch.”
He grinned at her, just once.
“You think this is the first time we’ve beaten them? They’re not as strong as they want you to think. Even we outnumber them. Go!”
Then they were running through the odd, scentless smoke that seemed to take all the noise, chaos, and smells of what they’d been through and stumbling onto the street blocks later. Mirn caught them and made them walk, even double back so they could point at the smoke and pretend to be confused, before stepping away. And Liska—
Slept.
 
[Portal Guardian Level 34!]
[Skill – Create Hidden Door Obtained!]
[Skill – Protect Identity: Doorguests Obtained!]
 
——
 
The next day, Liska returned to The Wandering Inn, and no one really noticed. Or rather, they all noticed she returned. Lyonette herself came by to remark on Liska looking wonderful and asking if she’d had a good break.
“Um…yeah. What’s all this for, Lyonette?”
Liska had gotten little sleep, her body hurt from running, and she stared blearily at the huge table of her favorite foods. She picked at it as Vakki and Miss Hariett hurried into Liscor.
“Liska, I was thinking you deserved a treat. I do hope you feel like you’ve had enough days off—which you do need more of, by the way. I was hoping to talk with you about your schedule, if you don’t mind? And Ishkr says your apartment is all but flooded; some huge leak. Why don’t you move to your rooms here permanently? I don’t see why you have an apartment in Liscor when this is so much more convenient. Ha, haha.”
Liska didn’t get it either, but she supposed that was the way things were until you asked yourself why they were different. She sat there.
“I guess that’d be good, Lyonette. I’m, um…quitting.”
Calescent dropped his ‘happy you’re here’ cake on his way out of the kitchen. Lyonette’s face went waxy. Ishkr whirled and went to scold his sister. But when he saw her face, he stopped. Liska was wiping at her nose, which still smelled like her blood, but she was determined.
 
——
 
Mirn laughed himself sick and chopped Liska on the forehead as he and Rose cleaned out a cellar in a nasty place on the 2nd Floor. Liska held her forehead.
“Ow. What’s that for? I’m serious.”
“Liska. I appreciate you being serious, but I don’t want you in my bar. I don’t need you; yesterday was bad, but it was me not being careful. We have Onieva; we don’t need you. And frankly, you’re a bit too noticeable. More importantly, you’re needed in the inn.”
Rose poked her head up, gloves full of trash. They were converting a ramshackle building into a new location for the bar. It’d be far less nice, but safe; the Watch had no idea there was even a cellar here.
“That’s right. Sometimes you do all you can, all the time. But most people give where they can, right, Mirn?”
He eyed her, then nodded.
“You’re learning.”
“But they were after us, and I—I want to help. I’ve never seen anything that matters more. They’re…my people.”
When she said that, she knew it was true. Mirn’s eyes softened, and he put a claw on her shoulder.
“I know, kid. And I appreciate it, but the Ancestor’s truth is, you’re too noticeable. You’re an amazing spark of brilliance, but you can’t do this. They’ll find you in a moment.”
That hurt. Liska hung her head.
“I guess. Lyonette was really upset and told me to think about it.”
“I just bet she did. But you know, Mirn, it’s not like we don’t need Liska’s help at all. That was bad, yesterday.”
Mirn grunted.
“Damn Edellein and damn the Watch. I’ve seen worse. We’ll buckle down. It’s Liscor I’m worried about. You want to help, Liska? Go there. Venim’s a stickler for the rules, but I don’t know if this is his idea or…something larger.”
He sighed, leaning against what might be a bar or just a bunch of crap piled up in the same shape, and Rose turned to face Mirn.
“Mirn, this is what I’ve been saying. Look around you. You can’t keep doing this same thing over and over. Hiding doesn’t work. They’ll never accept you. Onieva tried it for ages. She became their attack dog, and she gave herself away and for what? A compromise that ended as soon as Chaldion lost command. Do you want to live like this forever? Please…”
He leaned on the counter, seeming older, tired, less beautifully amazing, but Rose’s cheeks were flushed, and Liska turned to her.
“You talk like there’s something better, Rose.”
The Human threw a glance at Liska, and then she took a breath and closed her eyes.
“I thought I knew what I was. I thought I understood what the word meant, but I guess I grew up too safe after all. All the olds of my world told me stories, and I thought I got it, but if this is what it was like…Liska, you know I come from another world, right?”
“Well, yeah, sure. Everyone knows.”
Rose nodded at Liska.
“It sucks in so many ways. Racism and pollution and horrible wars we don’t need to have and corruption in government—”
“Everything we’ve got. She just says it’s worse.”
Mirn leaned on a broom, and Rose glared at him.
“But we have one thing that’s ahead. Even if it’s not perfect. Even if they keep trying to walk it back, make us illegal again, we can never go hiding in the closet. It’s like what Turnscales have, Mirn, Liska. Only, it’s not hiding anymore. It’s not just a community or a name for something bad. It’s…pride.”
Pride. The word jerked Liska’s head up. It was like the thing she’d felt in the bar. Belonging to something. An idea that if she wasn’t alone, maybe—just maybe—
“We’re scattered, Rose. We’re not like your world. If there’s a war, it’s not one I think we can win. We’ve tried.”
Mirn was rubbing at his face, but he spoke hesitantly, like he no longer believed the words he was saying anymore. Rose threw up her arms.
“After last night, what could be worse? No—I know it can be worse, Mirn. But at the very least, we need to organize.”
He stared at the ceiling, cursed.
“Ancestors. You’re right. Damn it, shut up, don’t speak.”
He threw out a claw, and they waited. Mirn’s lips moved.
“You’re right. I need a permanent bar. But there’s no damn spot in all of Pallass that can handle us.”
“What about the inn—”
“No.”
Rose and Mirn chorused, and he turned to Liska.
“With respect, I’d lose my [Protector] class if we held the bar there, Liska. I’ve seen what that inn attracts. It’s why me and Onieva have turned down the generous offers for help, even if we trust the inn. We need somewhere else. Liscor needs help, too. But how…?”
He was staring at a wall, and Liska was imagining a nice place. A bar, a secret location with all the awesome things Mirn had—even good drinks. Like a beach room. Like Erin’s inn, but…
“What if…what if you went through the [Door of Portals] and it took you to a secret place, Mirn?”
“Well, it’d look pretty damn obvious, Liska, no offense.”
He sighed back at her. Liska frowned.
“Okay then, how about not a secret door. You just walk through the door and go to Liscor, like you’re on holiday. Only, no one knows where you go. So you walk up to this secret door in the city, and when you open it…that’s how you get to a bar?”
Mirn glanced up at Liska.
“…Sounds nice. But you’d need a hiding Skill.”
“And a good [Doorgnoll] who can manage that kind of thing on her day off. Or after work?”
“You couldn’t do it nightly.”
“Why not?”
Rose turned to Mirn, and the [Protector] hesitated.
“The danger—”
“If they can find the door, and if someone tells, I bet the Watch will be a problem. If. But, Liska, how hard would it be to make a door that doesn’t lead to the same spot? Like a mini [Door of Portals]?”
Liska was rubbing at her chin.
“I mean…I think I can do it?”
Mirn was glancing from face to face. He leaned on his counter, pointedly scrubbing.
“That might be something, but it’d only work for Liscor. You need someone here, running a pub. But maybe…plenty of people travel these days. If the Pallassian version only opened every other week—we’d have to get Liscor on board. And test this thoroughly. Liska, you would have to be absolutely sure. This means everything. Are you sure?”
She swallowed hard.
“N-no. But I’d try my best, and if you don’t think it’d work—”
Mirn met her eyes. Then he smiled and tossed his dustrag down.
“To hells with cleaning today. Let’s at least take a look. At the very least…we owe Liscor some help.”
Rose turned to Liska, excited, but the [Doorgnoll] felt curiously wary, even a bit stressed. Because it was her idea, and if she got things wrong, people were gonna get arrested, hurt, just…vanish.
But that was how it started.
 
——
 
Miss Hariett had to come in and out of the door three times and walk around the building where Liska had put the door before concluding it really didn’t lead to any place on the inside. She stood in the empty room, frowning.
“If we pool our gold, we can buy this place.”
“The inn can help with that! And we can have drinks, real cocktails, a lounge—”
“Safety.”
Mirn put his foot down, and Rose stopped dancing in delight. Liska frowned as Hariett turned to her. The Drake inspected Liska, then smiled.
“I have some experience running a pub. If you want an apprentice-level Mason…I’m nowhere near Mirn the Protector, but I’ll gladly take help. I’d just need a good Sentry and an Architect with a vision.”
“I’ll be the—”
Mirn pushed Rose aside and sighed.
“Damn it, I never thought I’d be an Architect. Too much responsibility, I told Onieva! But someone needs to do this, and I know what it should look like. A high-level [Doorgnoll]. I’ve never had one of them. But say we do this, Miss Hariett. There would need to be changes. No disrespect to Liscor’s community, but they need to agree or we’ll have to think about doing this ourselves.”
Hariett hesitated and seemed to tense a bit.
“What kind of changes? Pallassian leadership?”
Mirn waved that off instantly.
“Nothing like that. What I mean is…Liscor’s getting way bigger. So many new Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, but your membership hasn’t skyrocketed.”
“We don’t know who’s—”
“I know, but there will be more of us. If I help with this, it has to be a place for everyone, even if that means risks. And there’s a requirement from Liska too, which I agree with.”
He nodded to Liska, and the Gnoll gulped as Hariett turned to her, but she gestured around.
“I, um, this—I want to take my friends here. Shashi, Thaheart, Orrell—”
The [Pub Owner] blinked, but nodded.
“Of course.”
“Not just them, Miss Hariett. I mean…everyone our age. Everyone who goes to your pub.”
Then the Drake woman did hesitate. Rose and Mirn watched Hariett’s face as she adjusted her belt.
“That’s…risky, Liska. I know it makes sense; I saw Mirn’s bar, and it was truly something, but that might have been why it was found so easily. You’re asking a lot.”
Liska’s heart was beating hard, but she faced Hariett, made herself speak instead of give up.
“I know, but…but they need it. I needed it, Miss Hariett. Even if we have your pub and it’s nice, that’s not enough. I never knew there were other people like me. Vakki didn’t. If she’d known that, she might not have stabbed Lizze’s father. Orrell wouldn’t have run away. We—we need something more. We need to know we’re part of something bigger. Otherwise, we’re just going to die before we get old, and the old ones aren’t going to trust anyone because no one was there for us. You have to trust us. We’re miserable and lonely, and we need to know we’re not alone.”
It spilled out of her, earnest, heartfelt, and Liska clenched her paws as Hariett stood there. Mirn leaned against one wall, waiting. Hariett looked to Rose, then Mirn, then to Liska. Then she came over and hugged Liska gently.
“Oh, Liska. You weren’t ever alone. But I’m afraid—we’re afraid too. We’ve been cowards because so many of us have seen what happens when it goes bad. We’ve lived through it.”
Liska hugged her back.
“I know. I know, but—it’s like being someone, when I knew I wasn’t by myself or just my friends. It’s what Rose said. Culture.”
“Dead gods, though. If we really all know each other, if we make this bigger—if we don’t all get found out and lynched, what will this be, Mirn? The biggest conspiracy ever? There might be as many as a thousand of us in Liscor!”
Mirn just turned to Rose, and for once, he nodded at the young woman. Rose’s eyes sparkled.
“There might just be, Miss Hariett.”
“Oh my. But we’d be a little town unto ourselves.”
“Try a nation. Try a—a people across the globe, if only we can find each other. Safely, secretly, but help each other out, Miss Hariett.”
“A nation!”
That dismayed the Drake, but Rose saw it. She lifted a hand up.
“Yeah. That’s what I can teach you. What we could be. No, what we are. We are a nation, a people even if we’re born in different countries, Hariett, Mirn, Liska. We recognize each other, we look out for each other. We have to be a community because apart they’ll pick us off. Why not? We even have a flag.”
Liska’s ears perked up.
“We do?”
“Oh yeah. A flag, colors, icons, and we shall stan for our own glorious queens and—and—”
Mirn chopped Rose on the head.
“That reset-chop is a good idea. Carefully, kid.”
“With great caution and attention to detail.”
Hariett added. They turned to Liska and waited. Liska glanced around and then shrugged, smiled, and said—
“And with a cool door. I’ll do that part.”
Mirn nodded to her, and there it was. No skepticism she could do the job or that she’d be able to keep their secret. No feeling like she was some idiot who was too dumb to do the big stuff.
“I’m counting on you, kid.”
Okay, she was still a kid. But Liska’s head rose, and Rose grinned; she was experimenting with a new hair color today. She’d decided to dye it like a rainbow, which looked cool…but was hard as heck to maintain. There was just one last thing that Liska felt like everyone was missing.
She kept waiting for Rose to bring it up, but then, she realized Rose might not ‘get it’. So Liska was deciding to do something about it. Wasn’t that weird? She was like…an Ishkr or something. Liska decided to be nicer to him; she hadn’t known how hard it was to do things without people telling you to. Mirn was speaking to Hariett and Rose, hands on his hips.
“I think this is it. I just need a good cover story. I reckon I expand my warehouse work here, and this just happens to be a place I buy. Bury it in papers; Pinrose can do it. We’ll get the gold together today, then. I’m still checking on everyone. Liska, you have work tomorrow, right?”
“Yep! But I’ll get time off in the evenings.”
“You sure?”
“Sure! Lyonette will give it to me.”
Liska felt very confident about that. But she tugged on Mirn’s and Hariett’s arms.
“There’s just one thing we gotta do before that. I want to introduce you to some people.
“Your friends? I could do that.”
Mirn and Hariett exchanged a glance, but were surprised when Liska shook her head.
“No. You all have, like, your secret groups and cool stuff, but so do I. If I’m one of you, you gotta listen to me, okay?”
She was nervous, waiting for one of them to tell her to shut up, but Mirn just raised his brows, and Hariett smiled.
“Of course, dear. And who are we meeting?”
Liska winked at Rose. Everyone turned to the young woman, and Rose hesitated.
“Um…”
Liska rolled her eyes. Rose really was new to the inn.
 
——
 
It was probably not the first time that any of them had seen an Antinium. Bird had stood on Pallass’ walls, and Mirn had been to the inn. But the [Protector]’s face said quite clearly that he had never talked to an Antinium.
Let alone a Goblin. And he was super uncomfortable. So Liska poked him.
“Mirn, you’re like Lizze’s parents meeting Vakki for the first time.”
The Drake jumped, then glared at Liska.
“How dare you. That’s the most insulting thing I’ve ever heard! Ancestors! It’s just—”
He fell silent as someone walked over, and the Antinium offered a hand to shake.
“Liska, thank you for introducing me to prospective clients. It’s good to see you—have you been eating well? Now, sir, don’t mistake my country accent and fine mustache for me being some hoity-toity Antinium. We here at Silveran’s Cleaners pride ourselves on being hard-working, down-to-earth sorts.”
The Antinium waggled his huge, bushy silver mustache as Hariett blinked rapidly. And she was Liscorian and knew Antinium; she’d seen all the new ones, but she was like Liska’s friends.
She didn’t know them. Any more than Mirn. The Drake gingerly pumped Silveran’s hand.
“How do you do…Silveran?”
“Oh, I’m not Silveran. I’m Silverstache, manager of this here establishment. Miss Liska said you might need help cleaning?”
Mirn wasn’t the best cleaner, any more than he bartended, since he moved from place to place. Hariett’s pub had needed a good mop, and there was no one better in Liscor.
“Are you sure I can, ah, afford your prices, Silverstache?”
“‘Course you can, Miss Hariett! We do very reasonable pricing, and our team of Ace Cleaners can deal with sewage backups, dirty wells—I’m getting into construction too.”
“Construction?”
“Nothing like levering up a floorboard to realize you have to fix a few joists. Now, when Miss Liska called me up she said she wanted to introduce two friends who didn’t know much about Antinium?”
“I mean, I’ve seen the new Painted Antinium march around all the time. We have no problem with Antinium, right, Vakki? Vakki?”
Hariett had to nudge the frozen Vakki, who jumped—Liska grinned as the second newcomer bared all of his teeth.
“T-that’s—Liska. That’s a—”
A little Goblin copied Silverstache by holding out a hand, and Vakki froze up again, but Liska nudged her. He grinned at the Drake, who slapped his hand with the fastest handshake of her life.
“Hi. I’s Picker. Here’s your money bag.”
“Picker? Is that a—a descriptor?”
Of all the Goblins to introduce, Liska really would have preferred Peggy, but Peggy had been working, and between Asgra, Sticks, and Picker, the little Goblins she hung out with…would you believe he was the best candidate? Picker nodded.
“Oh yes. I pick all things. Noses, locks, pockets. You got anything you want me to pick? Miss Lyonette never wants anything picked. Except trash.”
He beamed at Mirn, and the [Protector] shot him a very wary smile. He backed up a step and ran into Liska. When they exchanged glances, Liska beamed and shoved him forwards.
“Picker’s great.”
“Liska, why are we speaking to these two? They’re not under my protection.”
He drew her aside, and she gazed at him.
“You’re speaking to them because you gotta know Goblins and Antinium are people, Mirn.”
“Yes, yes, I’ve read the sign at the inn. I know Erin.”
“No—”
She made him stop and looked him in the eyes. Liska patted her chest as Vakki and Hariett turned. Rose was screaming; Silverstache was ‘cleaning’ her hair and removing the hair dye.
“No, Silveran, no, I worked so hard on—oh my Devils, my hair is amazing. Is that shampoo for sale?”
Liska just grinned, then spoke to them all.
“You gotta know Goblins and Antinium are people because I like ‘em. This is my community. It doesn’t have anyone you know—except Bird, maybe. We could invite her. In fact, we should! But even if they’re not all like us, you have to get it. I’m gonna bring everyone here.”
From Pinrose to Thaheart. Hariett just blinked at Rose.
“Bird. Bird the Hunter. You want to bring them to—?”
“She switched genders. Doesn’t that count?”
Mirn was having a small existential crisis. He slapped Picker’s hand away from his pocket.
“Ooh. You good.”
Mirn had to laugh at Picker. Then he sombered and squatted down. He glanced at the Goblin, then away.
“Look, this is hard for me. Picker, right? I don’t know how Saliss did it, and he’s got way more history than me with both species. But I’m…a [Soldier]. I was. I killed Goblins. I get what Erin Solstice is saying, but this is hard. You understand me?”
He gave Picker a level look, and the Goblin sombered. Liska held her breath, and Picker nodded.
“I get you. Me too. Sometimes I feel guilty. I killed Drakes too. Bad sleeps. Peace in the inn is better, yeah. Got to be good, make friends, so it doesn’t happen again. Even with Elia Kingslayer.”
Mirn stared at him.
“You killed Drakes? You?”
Picker was not a Cave Goblin. He sighed gustily.
“Oh yeah. Sneak up, pick pockets, put in boom flask. Then boom. I past that all now. No more wars. Too many friends die.”
He grinned, a pained smile, and Mirn sat down. Two veteran soldiers of completely different kinds eyed each other as Hariett exhaled.
“Well…after seeing Silveran’s prices, I don’t think I can afford not to take his work! Dead gods—Silverstache, do you have any time today? My pub is a mess.”
“A mess you say? Well, my good friend Silveran might be here—”
Silverstache whirled around excitedly and then hurried behind a curtain. He re-emerged minus the mustache.
“Hello! I’m Silveran! May I introduce you, Miss Harriett, to [Waterproof Coating]? Free application with every clean!”
Liska was grinning as Hariett hesitated, and Vakki stood there.
“They’re sort of funny, Liska. And I’m real glad everyone’s alright and helping. But d’you think—? Do you think Lizze’s going to be okay? Her fiancé’s coming to check her out, like today! Or his family is!”
She wiped at her eyes as Picker and Silveran turned. Liska hugged Vakki’s shoulders as Mirn got up from his chat with Picker. And then Silveran produced a handkerchief.
“Excuse me, Miss.”
He handed Vakki the handkerchief, and Rose put her hands on her hips.
“Can’t we do something? Or is it just going to be pressure and subtlety, guys?”
“Liska, what is this about?”
Silveran, a former employee of The Wandering Inn, gave Liska a concerned look. She told him some of the details while omitting the bad bit, but the Worker just scratched at his head.
“This reminds me of my time in The Wandering Inn. Sometimes, I miss the crazy. I am sure there is a sensible, logical solution. But have you considered crazy?”
He smiled as they all regarded him. And then Liska saw him wag an antenna at her and grinned.
 
——
 
Shashi, Thaheart, and Ulte were sitting in front of Lizze’s family’s apartment, a bit bored, a bit coinless—wishing they were more hungover. Liska had vanished, and Adrerni had been really upset that they didn’t know where she was.
They were waiting to see Lizze with the vague idea they could help…somehow. Or just throw a rock at her fiancé. And arguing.
“I’m telling you, I saw Orrell. His fur was changed, but I know that face!”
“Spidercrap, Ulte. He left the city, I’m telling you.”
“He was hanging around his home. If it was him—”
They all went silent as a carriage rolled up. The rain was coming down, and Lizze’s fancier apartment that her entire family lived in was aglow with lights. Lizze’s room on the top left window was boarded up.
“Oh shit, it’s him. Let’s get a—”
They fell silent as a cluster of Drakes emerged. They looked disgruntled. One audibly cursed.
“Does it rain forever in this city? I don’t think I can live here. Let alone with—”
They shot a glance down the street. They were definitely outsiders, because one look at an Antinium sweeping the street and they all shuddered. One of the Drakes spat.
“Asses. Look, is that him? Give me a rock.”
“Don’t be stupid, Lizze’s parents know you. They’ll arrest you too, Shashi!”
“But we gotta do something—”
Shashi was going for a loose cobblestone, and Thaheart and Ulte were wrestling with her when someone touched their shoulders.
“Hold on, you kids. Let a master work.”
A blue Drake pulled them back gently, but with incredible strength. They jumped, and Shashi nearly shouted at him to get away when Liska settled down next to them in the alleyway.
“Liska! What’re—”
“Shh.”
Liska, the weird Drake, Miss Hariett, and a really attractive Human all were watching! Thaheart’s mouth dropped open as a young Gnoll with dyed fur appeared.
“O-Orrell—?”
What were they doing here? All of them were waiting and watching the Drakes milling around in the street. One had knocked, and the door was thrown open, and Lizze’s father strode out.
“Hello, hello! Come in! Apologies about the rain—was the trip via Pallass smooth?”
“The door was all delayed. Some kind of staffing issue. And we saw a damn Goblin—er, hello. We have gifts. Where’s the bride-to-be?”
“Just upstairs. Dear? Our guests have arrived.”
There was a scrum at the door as the Drakes tried to get in with some rather large gifts. The fiancé was checking his clothing as someone held an umbrella out over his head, and then he froze. He recoiled, and the Drakes at the door all whirled.
“Dead gods.”
“Ancestors!”
One reached for a belt knife, and Lizze’s father froze. Because an Antinium, the one with the broom, had just walked up. A small group of rather smartly-dressed men and women of all species were standing behind him, all with the same uniform.
“Hello, sir. I’m here for your scheduled cleaning? Silveran’s Cl—”
“Antinium! Get it back!”
The outsiders screamed and tried to run into the apartment or just flee. They backed away in horror as Lizze’s father shouted.
“No, no, it’s just—Silveran’s Cleaners? I didn’t hire you!”
“Did you not, sir? I have an appointment on the books, right here. Oh dear, this happens now and then. I’m so sorry, let me just get my appointment book out.”
Silveran, the titular cleaner and hero of cheap cleaning everywhere, smiled, then noticed the frozen fiancé.
“Oh, hello, sir. I’m Silveran. Do you need anything cleaned? I’m delighted to offer cheap—”
He held out a hand, and the frozen Drake lashed out.
“Monster!”
It wasn’t a great punch, more of a panicked flailing motion. Silveran recoiled in shock, mandibles open, and he probably would have been fine—if he weren’t standing a bit precariously on the steps. And he must have been hit hard because he went tumbling down the stairs.
“Oh! Argh! My shell! My spleen! Aiieee—the pain.”
He landed, and his cleaning team shouted in horror.
“Silveran, sir! Boss!”
“Speak to me! Oh, Ancestors, that was a bad fall!”
“[Healer]! Someone get a—call the Watch!”
Lizze’s father panicked as the rest of his family rushed to the door, and other people began staring at the altercation.
“Wait, wait, it was an accident!”
He turned to the fiancé, but the Drake was backing away.
“Get away from me! I touched it! I need soap! This is the city everyone wants to move to? It’s a nightmare! Are you all insane?”
He began shouting as Silveran’s Cleaners clustered around their fallen leader, who was speaking weakly.
“Pass…my broom on…to the team. Do not weep for me. Tears stain terribly.”
Shashi was open-mouthed. The altercation grew louder, and she realized Orrell was laughing. Laughing? Then she saw Mirn’s grin.
“Unorthodox, but there’s no way to trace that back to us. Just the inn. The other bit’s crazy, though.”
He glanced upwards, and Shashi saw Liska’s eyes were on the apartment. On the boarded-up window. Odd. The light there had gone dark all of a sudden. And…Shashi narrowed her eyes.
They’ve got a back entrance to the apartment, but it was definitely locked. You’d have to have a key to get in.
Or…be good at picking locks. She stared as a little Goblin with pointed ears scurried down the alleyway, then levered something up. Picker dove into the sewers, and a pair of Drakes hesitated. But Lizze leapt in almost as fast, and Vakki was the one who clambered down behind her.
That wasn’t the power of Turnscales. Just The Wandering Inn. Community, wherever you found it. Liska was beaming right up until she groaned.
“Those two are gonna stink like heck. Glad I’m not sheltering them.”
Hariett mock-glowered, then rose.
“Let’s get everyone inside and make some proper introductions. Do you think they’ll be alright?”
She meant Silveran. Liska glanced at him.
“Nah, he’s having a blast. See him smiling?”
They were bearing him through the streets on their shoulders, and he had crossed his arms over his chest. The [Cleaners] were having a lot of fun, and Liska just grinned. She owed Silveran one. Picker too.
Then she took Shashi’s hand. She wanted to show her the new bar. And to see a certain [Dancer] in there. It was going to be awesome, and Liska just hoped Shashi took this as seriously as she did.
It would change her life. Liska began to run towards that place where she felt like she belonged, and she could see amazing things. The [Doorgnoll] wouldn’t work there all the time. She’d just take some evenings off her job at the inn…for her other job.
Lyonette had agreed instantly, and she’d told Liska that the Gnoll would get underlings. Maybe even some Drakes and Gnolls who’d worked for the inn before, or whomever Liska wanted.
Maybe Adrerni could use a job! Maybe. But it was that second door that Liska was thinking of.
Not magic. Not Erin’s door. It’d have to be a good one. Reinforced. Maybe with a sliding hatch and magic. Her door. And it would be Liska’s job to make sure it held, even if she wasn’t there. Preferably no one would find it, but that was the job.
To open that door and to guard it. This door, Liska swore, no one would ever get through unless she wanted them to. And if Rose’s grand ideas didn’t work, if the magic of Erin’s inn couldn’t do it or Mirn’s club or all the adults, then maybe, just maybe—she had the crazy idea that if she got to, like, Level 80, maybe she could fit them all behind that door and solve it that way. She didn’t say it because everyone would laugh at her, but then, Liska began to want to level as she never had before.
She decided working harder in The Wandering Inn was worth it after all.

10.64 FN (2026-05-16)

It was just one day.
But one day changed a lot. It turned a [Gunslinger] from a man with a secret to a stranger in strange lands, but not alone. Russell sat with Ylawes Byres as the sun rose, talking.
Not about great and consequential things like the state of politics or even the inn that the [Knight] held behind his eyes, a lighthouse to walk towards.
They spoke as Russell put aside the gun he had held with trembling hands, sitting on the walls with the weary man whose battered armor was his goodness. Talking.
“I never had a dog when I was growing up.”
“Me neither. I always wanted one, but my old man wasn’t a fan. And we didn’t have space in my trailer growing up. That’s…”
Russell fell silent, embarrassed, but the [Knight] just ruffled his hair and listened.
“Oh, I see. A moving wagon. I lived in a manor with plenty of space, or so you might imagine. There were plenty of mountain curs in the village, guard dogs—we live close enough to House Radivaek, and it’s famous for dogs. Beautiful breeds. But my father never let me have one, as much as I begged. I trained so hard I gained a Skill, and I thought a dog would be my reward, since a beagle had just had puppies. He gave me my first set of silversteel armor instead.”
“Really?”
Russell watched Ylawes swallow some water and wipe at his mouth. Then sigh and gaze at the battered metal gauntlets. Twitch his fingers, then glance away with a rueful smile. A Human’s face. A person’s expression that spoke of something small and sad he’d never mentioned to anyone before.
“It wasn’t like it ruined my childhood. I just thought I’d be best friends with one, that’s all. Later, my father told me my mother didn’t want the dog tearing up all our carpets and heirlooms. And that my two sisters had objected to one.”
“Huh. My mother was living in an apartment, so even if she’d wanted one—wait. Is there more?”
Ylawes’ lips had twisted unhappily. He took a longer drink of water and passed the flask to Russell, who took a swig. Just water tasting faintly of metal. But good. Civilized, for all the wall they sat on was packed dirt and they were far from the cities the man spoke of.
“I thought those were the reasons for ages. It turned out that both of my sisters had wanted a dog. And my mother? She’d grown up with pets. They got a cat after I left, and it was a nightmare for shedding and sharpening its claws. It seems…my father was worried I’d get a class like [Beast Tamer] or one with a focus with a dog as a companion instead of a [Knight].”
“That’s…”
Familiar. Familiar and utterly different. Russell searched for a word.
“…not fair.”
Ylawes shrugged once.
“I suppose my father thought it was for the good of House Byres. He apologized to me about it the last time I visited. I forgave him, of course. A [Knight] is traditional. Even if I don’t think…you do a lot in the name of House Byres. My sisters don’t swear by our house anymore or carry the crest as openly on their gear. I think I understand now.”
His earnest blue eyes turned to Russell, and the [Gunslinger] was neither so open nor so good. He scrubbed at his own black hair and then he spoke.
“I think I was supposed to enlist. In the army. It would’ve paid well. I was in a school that would have made me an officer. Good prospects. You do twenty years and you have a pension—”
Ylawes was nodding. Not asking for clarification. Picking up what was not said. And Russell sipped from the flask before handing it back.
“…I was picking up work, though. Hunting. That’s what I was good at. I’m a decent shot. I know the swamps like the back of my hand. Turned out I was good and reliable enough that even adults wanted me to guide them. You get a few vets—people who’ve come back from serving. And they’ve got stories. It comes out at night. So I dropped out of school. He stopped talking to me after that. My dad put a lot of money into getting me into the right school.”
Ylawes nodded.
“I never thought about the expectations he had of me. It just seemed natural. What was good, honorable, or mattered to House Byres was what I cared about. Then, one day, I saw both of my sisters sitting in an inn. And I realized they didn’t really like me anymore. I thought it was them. Then…it wasn’t like I ever really disagreed with my father. But it’s as if we were both following the same road, and now we’re just a bit off. Two arrows aimed in the same direction, but diverging. Strange how bad that feels. I feel like I’m letting him down.”
“You get used to it.”
The [Gunslinger] half-turned, and he met Ylawes’ gaze. For a second, the two half-smiled at each other until Ylawes’ stomach rumbled and he invited Russell to have some breakfast. The [Gunslinger] reminded Ylawes he was on guard duty, so Ylawes went down and brought some up to eat together. And both men wondered who had had it worse.
Fathers.
New Lands.
People from different worlds. Different classes. Russell sat on the battlements and smiled wearily. When the day dawned, he smiled genuinely. Wondering what was coming next.
 
——
 
Nailren was annoyed by the dysentery outbreak. Firstly, because it took all the Earthers out of commission, so he couldn’t talk to them; Russell and Lenora were too guarded. Secondly, he was annoyed at himself for not figuring out the danger.
Idiot. He could have saved a lot of people from trouble. The illness was going to tax Woll’s Waystation, and it could kill. Dying of diarrhea…it sounded like a joke, but the fluids and energy you lost would kill you, and it smelled bad.
He was no [Healer], though, and even his shamanic training didn’t give him anything to help with this. There was only one amusing thing in this entire affair. It seemed like Spoony really didn’t like floating around and seeing everyone’s distress.
She had freaked out when he visited the latrines and steadfastly refused to even get close. He wondered if you could repel ghosts with enough foulness…well, it probably wouldn’t work, but it was funny.
The Gnoll was standing on the walls of the keep, debating going hunting to just get away from the stench for a bit, and wondering if he should explore the New Lands; the Earthers would be laid up for days by the sound of it. He was gazing over the place that Woll called Kishkeria’s Grasslands.
“His Ancestors, but that Drake does know how to pick a good view.”
The wind blew, and the yellow grass rippled for a hundred miles ahead of Nailren. As if he stood before a sea no one had ever dreamt of, and he could leap into the waters and swim through the yellow grass.
Nailren inhaled a fresh breath of wind and grinned. Who needed Earth when this was in front of him? He realized that someone else was on the walls when Russell halted, mid-patrol, and turned on his heel.
The young man had a spear today. Not whatever he’d had last night. Nailren supposed he’d gotten it from one of the Drakes who was now sick. Russell was visibly wary of Nailren, and he went patrolling back down the walls.
Why are you so secretive, Human? If you killed that Cericel, then you should have taken credit. Unless you’re carrying something truly dangerous. And if you are…what?
This man was like the person that Nailren had gone to Liscor to investigate. He’d been eying Erin Solstice as a possible person of interest, a threat or even a Drake prop. He’d found someone cheerfully independent and seemingly good-hearted, but Russell…
The one thing Nailren thought he could tell was that the young man wasn’t a warrior. He had never killed someone. But he seemed dangerous.
The two glanced at each other and locked eyes for a second. Nailren took another sniff of the air and regretted it. Then his eyes fixed on something else. Past Russell. And he forgot his suspicions a second.
“Incoming. You’d better sound an alarm.”
The young man’s head turned. And then he stopped still on the walls. His head rose, and Nailren’s head craned back. Then, after a second, he shaded his eyes and grunted.
“…Or not. Not ferals, then. But Woll will want to hear about it anyways.”
“Is that—is someone riding—”
“It’s a Wyvern. And those look like Drakes. Must be from the cities.”
Ever seen a Wyvern before? Strange if you haven’t given that they’re on the news? Nailren was about to add when he saw Russell’s face. The Human stood there, eyes wide, gazing at the distant, pale blue Wyvern flapping towards them.
He looked like Nailren’s team had when they first saw the New Lands with their own eyes. Ecstatic. Disbelieving. The Gnoll gazed at Russell, then peered away.
He supposed even Humans from another world were allowed to find his world beautiful. Then Nailren shaded his eyes again. He hadn’t seen many fliers at all, and Woll had suggested the skies were dangerous. But these two…
Well, interestingly, they were almost as short as Woll, despite being Drakes.
How…odd.
 
——
 
A lot could happen in a short amount of time. The world could change, if only just for you.
But they knew that. No one would ever truly know, or perhaps, care what had happened to them. That was fine. That was normal for Goblins.
However, this time…it felt like something had happened. They were truly different. So even though the route was the same, they followed it like new people.
The pilot, flying at the head of the saddle on top of the Frost Wyvern, kept turning his head to his passenger, who was mounted near the middle of the Wyvern’s back, between the wings. Her gloved hands were holding the Thunderbow mounted to Coldcream’s back, but she wasn’t gripping the turret hard. She was just…staring down at the New Lands.
Chickenruler, the Goblin [Wyvern Rider], and Coldcream, the Frost Wyvern, both kept glancing at their sole passenger, Fightipilota. Then her head would rise, and she’d catch them peeking.
“Hey. Eyes on the air. We’re diving.”
“Oops, you right.”
Coldcream turned his head forwards, and Chickenruler pulled up on his reins, correcting the Frost Wyvern’s course. But then he couldn’t help it. He peeked back at Fightipilota. And she was different.
Maybe…a bit taller? Certainly, her ‘flight suit’ was different. She had on long pants and a shirt that ran up to her black gloves, but she also had what she called a ‘bomber jacket’ on top of the uniform. It was a splash of red on a plainer blue; a slash of red that had splashes, like paint. It tickled his sense of aesthetics, and her gloves and boots were the same quality as the fabric.
Not cotton nor silk, but something else that wasn’t actually as pleasant to the touch, but seemed to resist stains and was warm enough; the inside of her jacket was padded. Not with feathers or fleece, either. Something else.
Something from another time. A place that Fightipilota had gone to and come back from.
Another world. Now…it was over. The [Palace of Fates] was closed. Chickenruler hadn’t seen what was in there. He’d just been flying Chieftain Rags and Student Rags around and was there when the Goblin Lord they called Ragathsi of Civilization had killed an army.
Madness and insanity, even by Goblin standards. Then it was over, and they continued. But, Chickenruler had to believe—
It was all different.
Fightipilota had levelled. Her class had changed. She was now the thing they’d joked about. A miracle that the Goblins had believed in because they wanted it to be true, becoming a reality that shocked even their wildest dreams:
[Fighter Pilot].
It was the reason the two of them were even flying in the New Lands. Chieftain Rags was not exactly minded to draw more attention to her tribe. However, they had her Skill.
[Guise of Neutrality]. Add that to the fact that Chickenruler and Fightipilota had relationships with groups in the New Lands and that Rags wanted to head there next to relocate Goblinhome, and she’d approved their flight.
Plus…Fighti had just had to get out of Goblinhome. Everyone had been pestering her to show off her Skill, and while she’d spent a lot of time with their new aviation team, she’d begun snapping at other Goblins who wanted her to tell them stories. Chickenruler had proposed the flight to get her out, and it was working.
He just…
He really had questions himself. But he kept his mouth shut. A Goblin didn’t get to his ripe old age of eleven, or learn how to rustle two hundred chickens in a night, without knowing when to keep quiet.
 
——
 
Fightipilota wondered if it was a dream. It felt like it. Flying over the New Lands was surreal. It was so…peaceful.
One second, she was flying in the skies with explosions all around her, chasing the Goblin King and Mrsha. The next, the [Palace of Fates]. And then…
Here. Now she was supposed to pretend none of that happened. That Mrsha hadn’t died, and that, perhaps, it didn’t matter.
Her claws twitched on the trigger of the Thunderbow. Fightipilota took her claws off the controls. But it was real. Her class. Her Skill burned in her mind and…
“Hey. You think he okay?”
Chickenruler and Coldcream jumped and peered ahead, but Fighti didn’t mind them looking. Or even asking, to be honest. He was like her only friend in the air. The older Goblin scratched at his leather helmet.
“Who?”
“Rianchi, duh.”
“Oh, him. Yah….he probably okay?”
Chickenruler remembered belatedly and shrugged. Fightipilota stared back the way they’d come.
“He’s probably just lost or something. Chieftain Rags had someone else going to sweep for him.”
“Yah, he’s fine, Fighti. He a Redfang.”
“He is, but—he’s also Rianchi, you know? What if he runs into an Eater Goat? Just one could kill him. And I dropped him off by the Bloodfields. What if he cycled into it while he wasn’t looking?”
“He fine, Fighti. Other worlds not kill him, this won’t either.”
“Yeah, maybe. I should have stayed.”
She leaned over the Thunderbow, moody. Chickenruler snorted.
“You needed to go flying. Chieftain Rags was right. I was right. In fact, you saving Rianchi.”
“From what?”
“From putting your boot up his ass when he come back so hard he never sit down again.”
Fighti grinned at that. Fair enough. She shook herself out of her funk, then turned around in her seat.
“Nice weather today.”
Even Coldcream rolled its eyes. Fighti jabbed the Frost Wyvern’s flank with a boot.
“It’s nice weather.”
The New Lands rolled over them, a patchwork of different areas slowly becoming one huge, familiar plain of yellow. Chickenruler breathed out.
“We close to the big grasslands now. Hey! I told you that little place was gonna be there. See? It even has a roof now!”
He pointed at the little structure they’d passed before the [Palace of Fates], and Fighti grunted.
“Fine. I owe you dinner.”
“Yas. And Coldcream.”
“Hell no. I’m not paying for his meal!”
The Frost Wyvern whined, and Fightipilota hesitated.
“I’ll pay for four steaks.”
She felt a rumble go through the Wyvern’s body as he purred. Fighti peered down at Coldcream.
“Are you sure he should be doing that? I thought it was only cats that purred.”
“Eh, if they can do it, so can he. How much gold you got?”
Fighti checked her side and grunted as she counted coins.
“Well, some of it’s my pay. But most of it’s for buying supplies or trading. Or buying favors. Though Rags said to leave it to ‘experts’.”
She and Chickenruler weren’t considered savvy, diplomatic Goblins. Chickenruler grumbled.
“What, we gotta bring some landfoot all the way out here so they can smooch and schmooze with other people? They know us. We even went to Nombernaught!”
“You were the one trying to talk us out of it last time.”
“Yah, well, that before I realized they had good seafood.”
“You didn’t realize Drowned Folk had good seafood?”
“…Shut up, you owe me seafood when we get to Nombernaught! It’s gonna be days, though. What’s for dinner?”
Fighti sighed as she checked the Chest of Holding strapped onto Coldcream’s back. It was technically behind her since she was facing rearwards.
“Let me see…uh, well, there’s plenty of eggs.”
“Yum.”
“Oh, wait, you’re not allowed to eat those. It specifically says ‘for trading only’. Huh, half are in-cu-bated. What’s that mean?”
“It mean they gotta chicken in them. Gonna grow up! Or you can eat them while they’re in the egg. All crunchy and meaty.”
“Gross.”
“Gross. Gross, she says. You so not Goblin.”
She glared at him.
“Give me any more sass and I’ll throw your sandwich away.”
He paused.
“…Sandwiches? That our meal?”
“Yup.”
Two sandwiches on top of six more sandwiches. Fightipilota stared at sixteen cured hams in the neatly packed-to-bursting Chest of Holding and closed the lid.
“Ever since Calescent gone the food has gotten worse.”
“You telling me! Those Kraken Eaters not good at cooking either! Okay, they make decent roasts, but they not know anything about spices…and the future Goblins have some [Cook] classes, but they go, ‘where my automated Super Mixer 1000?’ Goblins these days.”
Chickenruler was very upset, and Fighti sighed.
“I knew we should have gone to the inn and had him pack the lunches. Chieftain Rags really screwed us over this time.”
“…What else in there? I know I saw a ham. Ham and eggs is good dinner.”
Chickenruler began scheming, and Fighti glared at him.
“This is for trade, Chickenruler. Most groups are starving!”
“Yah, and so am I. For good food. They can have my sandwich. Chieftain Rags, she pretty good, but she not understand what it like being a normal Goblin sometimes!”
“Fair enough. She’s sleeping on her silk pillows and blankets.”
“With her own room. Eating the best food, going to the inn, while we gotta fly all the way here. And she thinks this is fun. She try sitting on a bony Wyvern’s back all day. Don’t sulk, Coldcream, it mean you very thin and svelte. That mean sexy thin, not starving-death thin.”
Fighti grinned.
“And she can’t even pack us a good damn sandwich! And you know she knew what sandwiches we were getting packed because she never misses any details. Which means she just didn’t think we deserved good food.”
“Yah! She so busy cloning herself and fighting the Goblin King and exploding in a ball of fire and killing all of Pallass’ army…”
They fell silent. After a little bit, Chickenruler cleared his throat. Fighti stared back down along the Thunderbow’s sights.
“Do other Goblins believe it all happened, Chickenruler?”
“…Let me put it like this, Fighti. They not not believe. New Goblins appear? Makes sense. Goblins have special Skills and faith? All makes sense. We saw the Goblin King. We saw Goblin Lord Ragathsi. But when I tell them my friend, Fighti, she a [Fighter Pilot] now from the future? They have to see it. Even then, it’s hard to believe.”
Fighti nodded and watched the ground moving slowly beneath them. They weren’t high up; it was harder for Coldcream to fly high with the mana drain sapping his energy each night. But they were high enough they were out of range of most of it.
Otherwise, the Chest of Holding would explode. As it was, they’d been told by Prixall it would hold until Nombernaught with a few days’ grace. Enough time to scout or change routes slightly, but not long. They had to charge it up or they’d lose it, which would mean she’d pull their ears off. That was the only magic they had on them. Thanks to Rags’ [Memo] Skill, they could still communicate with Goblinhome daily. Fighti murmured.
“Maybe I should have been nicer. It’s just…hard to talk about and believe myself.”
She would have gone on, but Chickenruler chuckled.
“That not the only reason, Fighti. The real reason it hard to believe? Who ever heard of a Goblin getting anything nice? That the hardest part to believe.”
He turned and gave her a grin with all his teeth, and Fighti snorted as she sat back in her saddle.
“What, that we survived, that the tribe is stronger and we have Troll allies and the Kraken Eaters are fighting with us? That we’ll actually live?”
“Argh, what this Goblin talking about? You spitting fairy tales, you snorting Dreamleaf! She mad! She mad, Coldcream!”
They laughed, and the Wyvern purred again as Fighti’s spirits lifted, despite herself. Then she shook herself and stared down over the New Lands again.
“Everything’s changed. I’ve changed. And you know what? Sometimes that’s good. At least for me. Hey, Chickenruler. You want a sandwich for lunch?”
“…No? But if we gotta save the good food, we gotta.”
He lost his smile, but Fighti kept hers. She pointed down.
“Well, what do you say about a pit stop? You wanted to know what they were building. Let’s see if we can buy some food.”
She jingled her coin pouch, and he and Coldcream turned to eye her again. Chickenruler licked his lips.
“Wha…you sure? This not on our list.”
“I’m changing the list. What’s Chieftain Rags gonna do? She wants us to build connections, and they might have stuff to trade. Let’s land!”
But what if we’re found out, even with her Skill? That was Chickenruler’s second objection. Then he glanced at Fightipilota and remembered her class. Her Skill. The [Wyvern Rider] hesitated, then he laughed.
“Okay, you crazy, we all crazy. Uh…how do we tell them we’re friendly and not a wild Wyvern or something?”
Fightipilota scratched at her head.
“…You know, I have no idea. Do you have a flag or something?”
“I got my pants. You want to fly that?”
 
——
 
The Wyvern strafed Woll’s Waystation as everyone stared at it. Woll was waving his claws, shouting.
“Come on down! We’re open! We’re—are those pants?”
A flapping article of clothing was tied to the Wyvern’s tail, and the Wyvern circled the Waystation. Nailren heard a shout from a female voice.
“Hey—we’re friendly—can we land?”
“Yes, please!”
Woll screamed back, and the Drake in the back, with crimson scales and a bright red-on-blue jacket, gave him two thumbs up.
Nice clothing. That’s not a Walled City’s uniforms. Nailren knew them all, and he frowned. An independent city’s [Wyvern Rider]?
It made sense, but only one? Scouting? Woll was striding down.
“Someone get some tea going—this is huge! They’ve beaten even the Walled Cities’ advance into the New Lands! They’re either high-level or brave to be flying alone! I swear it’s the same Wyvern we’ve seen flying back and forth.”
Nailren’s ears perked up. He joined the throng waiting for the Wyvern to land.
“You’ve seen the Wyvern before, Woll?”
“That’s right. Well, we saw a lot of fliers coming through a bit ago, but they thinned out. The last group flying were the Wings of Pallass and half of them landed here—looked like someone had kicked them to pieces. They said their captain was still out there. I hope she’s alive. As I said—there’s predators in the air. But this one’s the only Frost Wyvern I’ve seen. The others have been different variants. I can’t pin down which city has Frost Wyverns. I thought Pallass, maybe? But that’s not their colors.”
Indeed, as the two leapt off the Wyvern, Nailren felt like the duo were very odd. The clothing on the female Drake was iconic, expensive, and utterly foreign to him. On the male? More traditional flight gear, but the moment they spoke, little bells began ringing in Nailren’s mind.
“Hey! This place open? We flying—I mean, we were flying in and saw this place! Is very—it’s very amazing to see!”
The male Drake waved, then pinched at his snout.
“Though that place there? It stinks!”
“You landed near our latrines! So sorry, we’re having a crisis! Welcome to Woll’s Waystation! I’m Woll, and what can I be for you? [Trader]? [Host]? Where are you from?”
The two Drakes halted, a bit wary, but Woll dashed up and shook their hands. The Frost Wyvern was snorting plumes of frost, and everyone backed up, but the female Drake shook Woll’s hand with a huge smile.
“Don’t mind him, he’s grumpy. I’m Fighti, and this is Chickenruler. And that’s Coldcream.”
“What names! Hello, hello.”
“Eh, it’s a nickname.”
The male Drake mumbled, and Fighti jerked a thumb at the Frost Wyvern.
“We’re from up north, along the High Passes. A town close to Yolden called Horrisbel.”
“Horrisbel? I’ve never heard of it. And you joined the New Lands rush? I swear I saw you passing over weeks ago, and I thought you’d stopped or landed…”
Fighti grinned toothily.
“We’ve been doing deliveries. Our leader, Lilbrasi, she wants us to trade before she heads down this way. Say, you got anything good to eat? We’re starving, and we have food to trade—we’re just not allowed to eat it.”
“Except sandwiches. Blech. You want one? I’ll give it to you, only one silver.”
Chickenruler waved a sandwich at the audience and was startled when half the crowd stepped forwards. The plain sandwich with tomatoes, grilled chicken, a dash of mayonnaise, and some lettuce was poor fare for the two who were tired of the same sandwich after two days of flying—but for the people of the New Lands?
Nailren watched as Chickenruler handed over the sandwich for a silver coin without even haggling, even when Woll told him he could sell it for far more. Chickenruler’s only comment as Oregg wolfed it down was—
“He looks hungry. Gotta eat when you’re that hungry. Say, there anything to buy here?”
And Nailren thought—no, there was no way. But that naming convention wasn’t like any Drake he’d ever heard of. His [Clandestine Chieftain] class was buzzing at him.
He still didn’t quite understand what was off about the two at first. He suspected they were [Mages] and was having to fight to concentrate on their backgrounds as being odd.
Woll was clearly doing the same thing. He was smiling, but he had a tiny crease on his forehead. That of someone fighting to pierce through a foggy veil…
Nailren followed the two Drakes, ignoring the tugging on one ear. He’d talk to Spoony in a second; she probably wanted to check out the Frost Wyvern. But these two…
 
——
 
The first thing Fightipilota did when she surveyed Woll’s Waystation was to peek inside the unfinished two-story building. She strolled over to the well, saw a very artistic warning to boil the water, observed the people lying in some distress along the walls, and noted the Human on patrol along the low earthen ramparts, staring at Coldcream. She eyed Chickenruler as he walked over and hand-signed to him in Goblin.
“Hey, this place sucks!”
He grinned and gestured back with the expressive body language only they knew.
“Yeah, but I love it. Why’s it smell? Bad poos?”
“Bad well.”
She jerked a thumb over, and Chickenruler’s brows rose as he read the sign.
“They not boiling their water? Damn. That how they get you.”
He clicked his tongue; as someone who handled chicken eggs regularly, hygiene was very important to Chickenruler, especially given where eggs came out of; the same chute as poo in chickens.
It seemed rough. To Fighti, who imagined any non-Goblin settlement as being loaded with nice things, this was shocking. It was like, well…a Goblin encampment.
Not even a good tribe. Chieftain Rags would have set up a better fort within three days, but she was a high bar to clear. When Fighti heard about the dysentery, she began to nudge Chickenruler. He rolled his eyes.
“Okay, they’ve got unlimited death-poo-death. But they got water, food, and they have levels. They not dying. Only some. Maybe.”
She nudged him harder.
“They’re right on our flight path to Nombernaught, and they’re important or might be…”
He folded his arms.
“Chieftain R—Lilbrasi gonna give you that boot for Rianchi.”
She spun on her heel to face him.
“So you’re telling me not to help?”
He grinned at her, shoving his hands into his pockets. She saw him, a short Drake standing in the keep, but she knew the real Chickenruler had to be grinning so hard his ears were nearly falling off.
“Who, me? Nah, I just saying—I’m just saying, damn, speaking is hard—all the things Lilbrasi would. Now I’m done. Let’s do something fun.”
She rubbed her hands together, then they dashed over to the Chest of Holding. Woll was hovering around.
“If I can get you two anything—we have some fresh Corusdeer venison, and I was thinking I could prevail on someone with [Basic Cooking] to whip a meal up? It’s not fancy, but—”
“How about we sell you food? Or anyone who wants it? And, uh, you want chickens? We have eggs.”
The two Goblins came out with armfulls of food and Woll’s eyes popped. The next second, someone charged at them.
“I’ll buy all of—”
A screaming [Merchant] ran at them, and only Coldcream rearing up in alarm prevented a storm of people converging. Fighti stopped, arms full of food, as she saw people come running, and she realized—
Oh. Oh, wait. Maybe we should have done this more covertly or officially. It was just—
She’d never been the person with all the food before.
 
——
 
There was a reason Chieftain Rags made Goblins eat in shifts and line up and enforced strict limits on how much you got to eat. Someone had to be a bastard or there was chaos, and the scrum that nearly overwhelmed the two Goblins and the Frost Wyvern made that clear to Fightipilota and Chickenruler.
Thankfully, that bastard was Woll, and he shouted everyone back and then had them queue up. After a brief conference with him, Fighti and Chickenruler agreed to trade food—with him and with any interested party.
No one got everything, and their Chest of Holding was big, but hardly a storehouse’s worth. They had more places to be, so they only sold a quarter of what was in there.
It was still enough to have people lining up to buy a ham sandwich—which Fighti quickly realized she should sell in halves—a bag of flour, salt—
Everything they were willing to sell was gone within twenty minutes. Gold? Fighti’s eyes were popping at how much they’d gotten.
Remember, gold’s not as important as goodwill. Anything useful, especially artifacts, information, we want that. No one had anything like that to sell so far, but Fighti thought they’d earned some goodwill.
“Remember, Lilbrasi and, uh, where are we from?”
Chickenruler turned to Fightipilota, then shouted.
“Horrisbel! Dead gods, we calling ourselves that?”
“I don’t know, I made it up! But see how many hungry people there are, Chickenruler!”
Or at least, people hungry for fresh food or more to augment their stores. It worried Fightipilota, and she said so.
“Without crops, they can only hunt. Lots of people might starve.”
“True…”
Chickenruler sombered, but at that moment, Woll came over.
“Fresh ham and bread. You two are always welcome here, and if you need a place to sleep, any time, come on back! In fact, if you’d make this a part of your route, I’d be most grateful.”
“If you’re still around in a month. You’re going to starve without crops.”
Fightipilota faced the Drake head-on, and he blinked, unaccustomed to such directness, but she was worried. Chickenruler nodded.
“Yah, no offense, but this? This is gonna get bad real fast. The moment one person gets hungry, they get stabby.”
Woll hesitated.
“Fairly said. I suppose I’m used to city life, but as Salii would say, listen to experts. I should bear in mind Captain Ylawes’ warnings…but there is good news there! Had you not heard a fix for the salted ground problem was in?”
“Huh?”
Fighti had not heard that—they’d been a bit busy of late. She stumped over to the illustration and announcement, and her jaw dropped.
“What? Archmage Eldavin fixed it already? What, is he some magic super-guy?”
“He does seem incredibly capable. Suspiciously so…well, I’m twenty levels too low to make that my focus. We had a [Mage] who brought the news who can still communicate with the outside world. Over there. Miss Falene.”
Fighti was going to tell Rags about this. It made her shoulders ease a bit, and Chickenruler scratched at his head.
“Falene. Ylawes. Feel like I know those names somewhere. Not in a good way.”
“Probably common. I dunno. I feel like I’ve met a ‘Falene’ too. Ooh, look, there’s lunch.”
Fighti turned and promptly forgot about silly people’s names; she saw a pair of armored women waving her over and smelled that heavenly scent: fresh bread.
Part of Fighti’s negotiations had been for lunch. So, in exchange for some food, she’d been introduced to a group that could cook. Thker was groaning instructions at Styrvi as she snapped.
“I’ve made your damn bread before! Go lie down!”
“But I want some good food!”
“You’ll shit it out. You can have broth.”
“I can smell…eggs…”
Evor had poked his head out of his tent and was drooling as other people began to indulge. Rigalde patted him on the head with a grin.
“Eat your shitty broth, boy. Eggs are for men and women who don’t shit their drawers.”
The curses and begging from the other Cenidau warriors was drowned out by the chortling of the two fliers. Fighti pointed at the bread and cooking ham.
“Now that’s a sandwich. Chickenruler, you fry some eggs up.”
“I’ll do that. Hey, you mind if I fry eggs? I’m good at eggs.”
“Be my guest.”
Styrvi watched Chickenruler crack three eggs one-handed and blinked. He winked at her.
“I’m the best at eggs. How you like yours? One side? Mixed up? Boiled? All fry, but runny inside?”
The Cenidau warriors began making requests when they saw Chickenruler executing a triple-flip of a fried egg without breaking the yolk on one pan, and Fighti rolled her eyes. But the other Goblin was enjoying being, well, popular without being a Goblin as much as she was.
And he did have, like…four Skills completely devoted to eggs. He had a problem.
She was just preparing a real sandwich—after washing her hands because like hell she was getting what everyone here had—when there was a plaintive voice.
“No. Did we miss it? Rigalde, was there someone here selling fresh food? I was helping dig the latrines and—”
A tall, blonde man was standing in the courtyard, dripping with sweat, and a half-Elf had come hurrying out of the keep.
“I smell fresh eggs! Ylawes, Woll just said he bought a bunch of supplies from a [Wyvern Rider]! Quick, buy the—”
Rigalde coughed.
“Er, you missed it, Captain Ylawes. Sorry. These two are the [Wyvern Riders]. From the High Passes. They sold out their stock.”
The duo sagged, and Fighti waved with a guilty expression. She almost said they had more, but that seemed like a good way of getting robbed. The only reason Chickenruler and she even left the Chest of Holding unaccompanied was because it was on Coldcream’s back, and he ate things he didn’t like. Then spat them out in pieces.
“Excuse me, Miss…”
“Fighti.”
“Miss Fighti, is there any way we could purchase some food? We’re a Gold-rank team, and we can pay!”
Fighti’s smile slipped as the Human man strode over, and she shook his hand, but exchanged a look with Coldcream.
Oh, hey. Even in the New Lands, it was sort of good to be reminded there were people they hated. After all, if there was any group that Goblins were predisposed against…it was adventurers.
Damn adventurers. She gave Ylawes a cool smile.
“Sorry, but we’re out. Next time we fly by, eh?”
“How long would that be?”
“Oh, you know, maybe a week, two? We’ve gotta resupply. And we might not come this way.”
She savored his face falling, and Falene closed her eyes. Then she put on her best smile.
“Miss, I’m a [Mage] from Wistram Academy. Could I trade with you for any magical services?”
“A [Mage]? Well, we’ve got some back home. I’ll see them in like a week, so…”
Chickenruler was munching down on his sandwich, relishing the schadenfreude like a sweet side dish. Falene tried to talk Fighti into it.
“I see you have a Chest of Holding. If it’s not upkept—”
“Oh, don’t worry, we’ve done this before. We’re good!”
But the ham. The haaaaam. The two adventurers stared at Cenidau’s warriors, but in this, friendship had come second place to the warriors stuffing themselves. The [Knight]’s head bowed, but he heaved a huge sigh.
“I understand. Come on, Falene. We should get a lunch together. Can we have that soup if you’re not eating it, Rigalde?”
They stared at the cauldron filled with well water, ready for boiling, and Falene groaned.
“Oh—fine. Help me lug it over to our camp.”
She tried to carry it, and Ylawes ended up doing most of the carrying as they approached a camp of downed people. Fightipilota saw one of them straighten from ministering to a short Human woman with a beard. Maybe she was a Dwarf?
“Captain Ylawes, did you get any provisions? I didn’t hear until—”
“No, Anith. They’re out. Soup it is.”
Fighti frowned. Ylawes, she swore she knew that name. Not in a positive way either. More like someone cursing the name. She shrugged, and Ylawes cast around.
“How’s Infinitypear doing?”
“I can’t honestly tell, Captain. He’s groaning and saying ‘even the paste didn’t make his stomach hurt’, which…I’ve heard legends of Antinium food.”
“Damn. Infinitypear. That a cool name. Who knew anyone had cool names here?”
Chickenruler commented, and Fightipilota nodded. Then she saw Ylawes opening a tent flap.
“Infinitypear? Are you okay?”
“I am not happy, Captain. Also, my brother is pestering me.”
A complaint from within. Ylawes hesitated as someone argued in denial.
“I can see he’s a bit…it’s sometimes hard to be around someone who’s sick, Rasktooth. Even if you’re being helpful. We need help making a soup. How about that?”
A brief argument as Fighti commented.
“Rasktooth. That a good name. Solid name. Who these people with such nice names? Maybe it is a Drake thing?”
They watched as Ylawes entered the tent, rummaged around, and then came out with someone clinging to his shoulders. Chickenruler took a bite of his sandwich, then began choking.
“G—G—Goblin—”
He pointed as he clutched at his throat, and Styrvi slapped him on the back.
“Easy, easy, it’s just a small one, and they’re adventurers! The Antinium too!”
Fightipilota was also coughing on her food. She pointed, bug-eyed, as a Cave Goblin slid off Ylawes’ back, sniffed the air, then stared at the soup pot with clear disappointment.
“Captain, I never say this, but even I like good food sometimes.”
“I’m sorry, Rasktooth. We missed it. What can you do with what we’ve got?”
Fightipilota and Chickenruler exchanged a look of silent incredulity, and then something clicked in Fightipilota’s head.
“What did you say this team was? Which Gold-rank team?”
She whirled, and Rigalde lifted her hand.
“The Silver Swords, and they’re our friends. We’ve come together well and traded words and food, so I would like there to be no violence or threats of it, Fighti, Chickenruler.”
The two Goblins regarded each other as the Cenidau warriors watched, concerned for completely the wrong reason. They gazed into each other’s eyes, communicating silently.
We have to do it.
Oh, we must.
Then Chickenruler raised his voice.
“A Goblin? Here? Eugh, I cannot even! Damn Goblins, I am so upset!”
He slapped one knee, eyes laughing, as Fighti folded her arms.
“Puts me off my sandwich, so it does. Darn Goblins…”
She shook a fist at Rasktooth, who sniffed the air, frowned, then shook his fist back.
“Hey, you not want that sandwich, you give it to me! It smells really nice!”
The two had fun for all of…well, as long as it took for Rasktooth to stare down at his feet after Fighti threw the sandwich onto the ground and Ylawes to turn, a thunderous frown on his face. Then Fighti felt bad.
Yeah, this isn’t fun. She picked up her sandwich, dusted it off, and turned to Chickenruler. Rigalde and the other Cenidau warriors were frowning like a storm, but the [Wyvern Rider] just hopped up.
“Okay, yep. Let’s go.”
They walked off towards their Wyvern.
 
——
 
Still, Nailren couldn’t place them. He was fighting something. Some kind of information-denial Skill, but whomever had placed it was higher-level than he was.
Level 40? Great. They’re agents or something. Woll’s figured that out, but neither of us want to roil the pot while it’s filled with stew.
Nailren just wanted to know, though. The fact that he could even tell Fighti and Chickenruler were being guarded by a Skill was a product of training, experience, and his own countermethods to being deceived. It was hard to fight this kind of effect.
He was so busy concentrating it was only when Spoony gave his ear a damn hard tug that he yelped and growled. His earring had pulled at the fresh hole.
“Spoony, stop that! What? I’m busy fighting a Skill here!”
He explained, briefly, what was going on and heard a faint tapping sound. From…
Oh, right, his ouija board. He pulled it out and watched the ectoplasm marker skim the board. A passing Human stared at it.
“Dead gods, is that magic? Here?”
“Nope, just a Skill.”
Nailren absently replied, adding up letters. Then his fur stood on end. Because Spoony had just written:
“G-O-B-L-I-N-S.”
His head rose slowly.
“You don’t mean Rasktooth.”
Left ear tug.
‘No.’
He turned his head and tracked the two Drakes who’d gone out to their Frost Wyvern. One had fed it part of his sandwich, and the other was walking back, arms full of something.
“That’s a…”
‘Yes.’
Then he blinked, and the illusion vanished for him. Nailren barely recoiled; he kept his features calm, but his heart began hammering in his chest.
Dead gods.
Under his very nose! And it had beaten him—but not the eyes of a dead woman. He began walking forwards.
“It has to be. There’s only one way—”
Spoony was pulling at his arm, and he realized she was afraid, worried. But he? He was grinning.
“Spoony, I might have to catch you up, but trust me. There’s only one place so silly and Goblin-friendly that they can come from there.”
Sure enough, the female Goblin with the bomber jacket had halted in front of the Silver Swords. She had eggs, ham, flour, salt, everything, and she put it down as Ylawes and Rasktooth stirred from their pot.
“Hey, turns out we have a bit more supplies. Want some?”
Ylawes Byres licked his lips at the bounty, and Falene turned like a hawk, but after a second, the [Knight]’s chin rose.
“Excuse me, Miss…Fighti, was it? But although I’m sure my team would appreciate the vittles, I must refuse to trade with anyone who disparages my teammate.”
Rasktooth sniffed again and gave Fighti a puzzled peek. Nailren realized even the Cave Goblin couldn’t tell it was another Goblin. He poked Ylawes urgently though.
“Captain, Captain, I okay with being disparaged if I get to eat good food…”
Ylawes Byres hesitated, and Nailren saw Fightipilota chuckle. A true, genuine bit of amusement from someone who liked a [Knight]’s stubborn pride on a Goblin’s behalf.
That only made him frown harder, and then it was Fighti’s turn to hesitate. Because—and this was funny to Nailren and no one else—she was playing the anti-Goblin Drake. And now she had to resolve the situation while maintaining her cover for the watchers.
But she didn’t know how. Fighti blew out her cheeks, then paced left, eying Rasktooth as he sat cross-legged outside his shared tent, and Ylawes half-pivoted, putting his body between her and his teammate. Fighti’s eyes flicked to him and his half-outstretched arm.
“I think you should leave, Miss.”
“Hey…wait a second. Maybe I was too hasty. I mean, Goblins. I know Goblins aren’t all, uh, monsters. There’s that inn on television, right? Hey, Chicken, you know that inn?”
“The Wandering Inn? Sure, everyone’s heard about that! Don’t want to get on its bad side, do we?”
The other Goblin bellowed back, and Fighti turned to Ylawes.
“And you’re a bunch of adventurers? The Silver Swords? I swear I’ve heard of your team too. C’mon, we’ve got great food. Hams, eggs, all the good stuff.”
Ylawes’ arms were folded with the pride of House Byres.
“I believe my teammate has been insulted, Miss.”
“Hey! I’m sorry! I’m—Rasktooth, is it?”
Fighti made a show of looking the Cave Goblin over with some hesitation, and then she waved at him.
“He’s fine. Small. What’s he gonna do, sneak up and slit our throats? We’re flying off anyways. There’s no problem if he’s an adventurer. It’s just one. Not all Goblins are bad, eh?”
Something about what she was saying seemed to be sticking in Fightipilota’s throat, because she coughed a few times, then drank some water from a flask. Rasktooth was nodding.
“Yah, sure. I fine, Captain. Food, please?”
“As long as you’re okay with it, Rasktooth.”
Ylawes was hesitating because his stomach had launched a vociferous campaign to forgive and forget. Fighti smiled, then stepped forwards. Because she should shake this Goblin’s hand. Just to prove she was a reasonable person after all.
Rasktooth pushed himself up onto his knees, and Fighti bent over as everyone watched.
“Hey, so…we good, little Goblin? You one of the good ones?”
“Sure, Miss Drake. I is not upset. I hear stuffs like that all the time. You sell us food now, please? I not even be out here if it bother you. All forgiven!”
He smiled up at her, and the older Goblin, growing into a Hob herself, just stood there a moment. She didn’t take Rasktooth’s hand as he extended it, and the Cave Goblin froze, licking at his teeth.
Okay, can we jump them, Captain? And steal their stuff? Nailren’s [Hear Whispers] caught Insill and Ylawes talking.
Don’t cause a fight. I’ll handle this.
Ylawes was moving forwards, a thunderous frown on his face as Dawil got up casually—but both warriors were blocked by Nailren. They glowered at him as he stepped in front of them, but he just smiled at both and put a finger to his lips. They hesitated, and Dawil pulled Ylawes back. Watching.
Fighti squatted down for a second in front of Rasktooth, and her voice was soft. To others, just a Drake awkwardly having a conversation with a ‘good’ Goblin. But her voice came out roughly.
“Hey. Kid. You’re a kid, right?”
“Who, me? I is a big adult. Or young master! I old for a Goblin in my tribe!”
Rasktooth puffed out his chest indignantly, and Fighti half shook her head.
“Nah, you’re just a…a big kid’s just a kid. I’m still—listen. I said a lot of harsh things just now. And my apology wasn’t great. If I were you, I don’t think I’d accept that and forgive and forget.”
Rasktooth’s face scrunched up in confusion. He sat back on his bum.
“No one ever told me not to accept apologies before. This new. But you got lots of food, yah?”
“Yeah. We do.”
“Then we all good. My team very important. They not have rumbly stomachs or bad poos—that more important than me get all worked up over some words. We good?”
He held out his hand again, anxious, and Fighti half shook her head. Ylawes partially turned to Dawil, and the Dwarf was tugging on his beard. Eying Nailren, who just…listened. Fighti’s voice trembled.
“No. We’re not. You shouldn’t take that, kid. Sometimes, you have to. I mean, that’s what they say. We say. You’re the ‘Good Goblin’, I guess. You’re not big enough to cause trouble. There’s more of us than you. Because of the inn, because we want something, we’ll overlook it just this once. You know that means if you didn’t have your team, and you were alone—it’d be different, right?”
The Cave Goblin’s uncertain smile went out. He looked Fighti in the eyes and shrugged.
“Well, yeah. That obvious. But this better than being stabbed in face. Okay? That what you want?”
“No. You should demand more.”
“That sound like a good way to get me killed. You want me to die that bad?”
Rasktooth squinted at Fighti suspiciously, as if suspecting this was some long-form plan to get him killed via super-racism after all. But Fighti’s lips were trembling, and her eyes were too bright.
“Not you. Just—I used to think it was enough too. I did. But then you get to wanting more. More and more. I don’t want to have to ignore the looks or pretend I can’t hear the whispers. I shouldn’t have to justify myself. I want to walk into a store and no one even blink. That’s what you should fight for.”
The Cave Goblin’s mouth opened and closed, then he reached out and patted Fighti’s boot.
“There lot of mean people to Drakes too, huh? That very nice, Miss. But I have a good memory. Last year, I die if I sneeze too loud and the Raskghar get annoyed. Or get killed even if I have my team. I a big Goblin, but I can wait. Sometimes, you very hungry or want to get nice thing from treasure pile. But pushing to the front of line gets you killed. That wisdom.”
“Yeah. Yeah, it is. But someone’s gotta push. I know you’re right. Not here, not—”
Fighti’s head swivelled, and she took in the Silver Swords, Nailren, the guests of the Waystation all eying her. Then she wiped at her eyes.
“I just want to see it someday before I die.”
The Cave Goblin glanced around for help as he patted Fighti’s boots, and Ylawes leaned over.
“Dawil, either anti-Drake racism is a lot worse wherever they came from or…”
“Yeah, lad. Falene’s giving us a look.”
But then Fighti just shook Rasktooth’s hand and stood up. She walked back over to Ylawes, wiping her eyes, and nodded to him. Shamefaced. Embarrassed. But appearing oddly relieved. She stuck out her gloved hand, smiling faintly.
“Maybe we try and say ‘hello’ again, Captain Ylawes? Turns out we do know each other. I’m Fighti. Fightipilota.”
Rasktooth recognized the Goblin name, and his eyes flickered as Ylawes held out a hand, uncertain. Then he sniffed, squinted at Chickenruler, and suddenly grinned. He gave Ylawes encouraging motions, and the [Knight] grudgingly shook Fighti’s hand.
Fightipilota shook Ylawes’ hand up and down, then let go. But she didn’t lower her hand. She made a fist, and Ylawes peered at it.
“Captain, Captain, you copy her.”
Rasktooth encouraged the [Knight], and the man hesitantly did. Fighti bumped it with her fist, and he blinked.
“Excuse me, if this is some kind of greeting, I don’t get—”
“You shush. You know this one. Hands!”
She held out her hands, as if going for a handshake, but palms flat. When he copied her, she slapped his right with her left and copied it on the other side. Ylawes’ face was the most amazingly nonplussed that Nailren had ever seen.
“Um, I still don’t know—”
Dawil was swaying as he held his stomach, but now he frowned at Fightipilota. Vuliel Drae were similarly lying there as Infinitypear rolled over to beg for some good water, but all of them had seen Fighti’s conversation with Rasktooth. They glanced up.
They all saw it. A curious Woll watching from the keep windows, people eying the mysterious Drake…Fighti made Ylawes do it all again.
Handshake, fist bump, palm slap—then she completed the move by stepping back. Fighti spun around on one foot, twirling, and finished with the only thing that fit. She lifted her fingers and flicked Ylawes a pair of finger guns.
The blank [Knight]’s face changed. His blue eyes widened, and Falene dropped a soup ladle. Because that—
“Wait. Wait…”
There was only one silly [Innkeeper] in the world who did that. Ylawes Byres blinked down at Fightipilota, who was grinning fit to burst. And then…he exchanged a look with Rasktooth. Dawil’s head rose slightly, and he began to grin.
They knew each other. They were from the same place. So, sick or not, for a moment, the Silver Swords, even Nailren, felt it. Like a breath of fresh air in the sick, poo-y keep. A chill upon the skin. A leaping in the heart.
A bit of wonder and magic. The [Knight] stared at Fightipilota, then cast around. A smile was creeping onto his face, but…he hesitated, and Nailren saw it in the [Knight]. But then he bit his lip, stepped back, and copied Fightipilota’s twirl.
He shot her the weakest, most embarrassed pair of finger guns Nailren had ever seen in his life, turning beet red. But Fightipilota’s eyes bugged out, and then she was laughing. She jumped forwards and threw her arms around him, then grabbed Rasktooth and swung him around.
“Hah! You are as dumb as they say! You’re great!”
She was laughing in delight as she kissed the Cave Goblin on the cheek, and that must have broken the spell for Ylawes and Rasktooth, because they recoiled. A watching Drake spat out all of his food at the sight, but Ylawes just turned, saw Fighti as she was, and blinked.
No one else had any idea what was going on. The Cenidau warriors had gotten to their feet in alarm when Fighti grabbed Rasktooth, but then they were just dumbstruck. Fighti didn’t care. Nailren realized he was grinning too. Ylawes blinked down at the pile of food, then he rubbed at his eyes.
“Did she send you?”
“Nah. We sent ourselves. But friends? Friends show up all over the place. Hey, Chickenruler, this lot gets the Goblin discount!”
“Sure! How much for a handful of poo? Eh, we’ll waive the poo this time!”
Then everyone was talking amidst the Silver Swords as Petia and Homle gaped at each other, utterly dumbfounded how Ylawes knew two random Drakes. Nailren came forwards because like heck was he going to miss this.
Also—he was wondering if he could get a sandwich on sale.
 
——
 
Who knew being friendly with Goblins would ever have an upside? Not Ylawes. He had always thought Erin was crazy. And then, when he’d begun to change his mind more and more, thought she was still crazy, but doing the right thing no matter how hard it was. Which was why he respected her.
But these Goblins—well, they were a sight for sore eyes and hungry stomachs! It actually seemed to take Fightipilota back how much the Silver Swords ate.
“You guys are sort of thin. You, uh, okay?”
“We only starved a bit. Damn [Merchants].”
Rasktooth was licking his lips over some eggs that Chickenruler was frying for him, and Nailren was sitting with the Silver Swords, eating Fighti’s sandwich.
They were the only people allowed near. A few others kept coming by to ingratiate themselves with the ‘Drakes’, but Chickenruler and Fighti had suddenly lost all interest in anything but the Silver Swords. Fighti raised her eyebrows.
“What, [Merchants] are bad guys all of a sudden? We love them.”
“What, your…people?”
Falene was still blinking rapidly, and Fighti grinned at her.
“Sure! They deliver tons of good stuff all over Izril! All for free!”
“For f—oh. Of course. Well, in this case, these [Merchants] were rather shortsighted. They ran into the mana drain, the salted ground, all the problems you could imagine…”
“Eh, and I bet hunting was hard. Hunts go bad for a bit and you’re eating your chickens and sheepies and pigs.”
Chickenruler shook his head, then eyed the Silver Swords as they bit their lips.
“…You did bring chickens, yah? This the New Lands. There beetles everywhere. This like…chicken paradise. This Khelt for chickens.”
He was so appalled when they told him they’d taken no grazing animals aside from horses that he tried to hand them a bunch of fertilized chicken eggs.
“We’re actually searching for work. We can’t raise chickens.”
“You sure? You very sure? Argh, take more food. Ch—Lilbrasi is gonna want to hear this. Don’t worry, she’ll be happy with us giving you this. Hey, you want metal?”
“…What, just metal?”
Fighti jerked a thumb at Coldcream.
“We’ve got food, but that’s only half the Chest of Holding. The rest is other things Lilbrasi thought was worth something. So, steel ingots, nails, even wood! We have just pieces of wood in here!”
She rolled her eyes at her silly Chieftain until Ylawes sat up.
“We could use wood! Can we get enough for our tent poles? What kinds?”
“I, uh, well…sure! Damn. How does she do that?”
Fighti came back and found Chickenruler had Rasktooth in a headlock and was rubbing the younger Goblin’s head.
“You little kid you! All the other kids gonna be super jealous when they hear where you’ve been! And levelling! Only Gothica higher level than you are.”
“Really?”
“Yah! You doing great. Aside from the dysentery. That actually really bad.”
Rasktooth’s ears wilted.
“I didn’t know you needed to boil water.”
“Eh, maybe we can help. Good food and clean water better. Fighti wants to see if she can get medicine.”
Everyone turned to Fighti, who blushed and jabbed Chickenruler.
“It’s both of our ideas. Might be we can find some. We’ll ask. But, uh, where are you going? Just working while you avoid [Merchants]? Want us to hit any we meet?”
“I don’t want you to get in trouble, but—yes, we’ve got work, and we’re stuck here for a while.”
Ylawes indicated Dawil, who was groaning.
“The food’s so good, and I want to chat, but I’m sick! Damn you, well! Lad, lad, ask about the Goblin King.”
Fightipilota and Chickenruler went quiet as everyone turned to them. Chickenruler’s eyes darted to Fighti, and Ylawes cleared his throat.
“We know it came from the inn. Was it actually…?”
“Yup.”
“Really? A Solstice event? Even without her? And it was actually—”
“Yep.”
Fighti poked at the ground with a claw, and her face was blank. She added after a moment.
“He’s dead. The rest…happened. No one’s dead. At least, no one you’ll miss. Things are okay. Really.”
“Truly?”
Ylawes’ skepticism met Fighti’s calm eyes, and she took a gulp of some tea.
“Yeah. I was there. This time…Mrsha started it. And Lilbrasi. It went—well. Well as it could have, I guess.”
She gazed past them into the cooking fire, and Chickenruler interrupted hurriedly.
“Maybe it better to speak of other things. So, New Lands, huh? No one dead yet? Great, great. Starving happens. You eat some, it’ll all work out.”
Nailren broke into the silence.
“I’m surprised that you two are still flying. Woll told me it was dangerous. You might not know this, but an entire Wyvern wing got chewed up. Only one survived; it might be untenable for you to keep doing deliveries, grateful as we are for them.”
Fighti’s closed face opened slightly, and she smiled as Chickenruler shot her another glance.
“We know. There’s a big warning from Fissival about it. Apparently, they lost Wyverns too. Bad things up there; we’ve seen them.”
“Really? Like what?”
“Other Wyverns. Saw an Acid Wyvern—that was nasty. There was this storm of flying things that we avoided—”
“Bats? There was a huge nest of them.”
“Hah! We know bats. That lunch. No, far bigger. In that big canyon. Hm, there those annoying Wyverns, that creepy centipede that stretches up and tries to eat you, the flying fishies—”
“And you’re still flying?”
Falene was incredulous, but Fighti sipped her tea.
“We have a secret weapon. It’s risky, but we’re confident we can still fly.”
The [Mage] eyed Coldcream.
“What’s the secret weapon? It’s not anything magic besides the Chest of Holding or I’d sense it.”
“Me.”
Every eye focused on Fightipilota, and she did not elaborate. What was crazy was that clearly, most of the regulars of the inn believed her.
Petia and Homle were whispering to each other.
“Did that Drake kiss that Goblin? And they all know each other from Liscor?”
“I think so, Homle. They must be mad up there, or very, very odd.”
“They did say they were next to the Yoldenites.”
“True. That explains a lot, actually.”
 
——
 
Another stranger came over as Fighti and Chickenruler were furnishing the Silver Swords with some of their best supplies. Russell had been gazing at the Frost Wyvern nonstop, just…admiring the way its scales flexed and articulated with every subtle movement. Even watching Coldcream poop and once again affirming that this could not be any animatronic from his world.
He hadn’t known what to make of the two Drakes. And he was still a bit—shy after last night. But when Ylawes turned, the [Knight] instantly strode over.
“That’s right! Fighti—this young man is a friend of ours. Russell, meet Fightipilota, a very trustworthy, very capable representative from the spot I was telling you about.”
The inn? And that name—Russell’s instincts pricked at him again, and the strange Drake woman eyed him, sniffed, and seemed to put her guard up at once. Russell’s free hand twitched, and for some reason, the two tensed.
Then Ylawes, with all the subtlety of a drunken hippo tap-dancing on a table, leaned over and whispered.
“She’s a Goblin, Russell. Her tribe is a friend of Erin.”
The [Gunslinger] recoiled as the illusion vanished. Fightipilota blinked up at him as his jaw worked.
Lenora, Arnie, Chester, and Honarai hesitated as they came over, but Ylawes just turned to Fightipilota with such a genuine smile that Russell’s understanding of this fantasy world had to adjust again.
Our classic hero of heroes is friends with Goblins. Just like Erin Solstice said. It wasn’t an opinion shared by many, clearly, but Russell was receptive to the idea. Any time observing Rasktooth and Infinitypear, overhearing their dialogue, and Russell had a hard time thinking all Goblins were like Orcs.
Plus, if you knew anything about the behind-the-scenes of the Lord of the Ring’s writing, then you knew that Tolkien, a religious man, had often worried about the Orcs not being redeemable. When Fighti introduced herself to the Earthers, they all jumped, but Drakes and Gnolls were so outlandish as to make Goblins actually more relatable to their notions of fantasy. Arnie put it back.
“So it’s World of Warcraft instead of Lord of the Rings. Got it. Do you all serve an Evil Emperor or Demon King? How many evolutions do you have?”
Chickenruler and Fighti eyed him. Fighti had just as quick a reaction to meeting the Humans.
“These the new Earthers?”
Falene nodded, and Fighti rolled her eyes.
“Oooh, fun. How about we come back in three months when they’re all Coach Josephs, not Drunk Josephs? Unless—wait, we’re not doing passengers back to the inn!”
She glowered at Ylawes, and the [Knight] protested.
“They landed in the middle of the New Lands, and they’ve been wandering around for at least a month, Fighti! We were giving them directions back to Liscor, but we can’t go there ourselves…”
She was rubbing at her face as Russell eyed her, still wondering why she put his guard up. But Fighti was grumbling.
“We didn’t bring enough seats or belts! We have three. We could maybe tie a fourth up, but you don’t want to do a harness with rope. It snaps and then—”
She made a gesture, and Russell paled at the implications. Chester went dead white. He backed up a step, which already told Russsell the [Candidate] was highly acrophobic. Besides which, Russell shook his head.
“I reckon we should go on foot, anyways. A bunch of Humans flying with two Drakes stands out. Maybe some of us—”
But I’m not riding all the way to Liscor. Russell wanted to see Izril’s south. Instantly, Honarai began arguing for a ride, but Lenora turned to the Silver Swords.
“I’d stay too, if we could learn from the Silver Swords.”
The first group of people they’d ever met were adventurers and trustworthy. After Russell’s meeting with Ylawes, everyone was glued to the Silver Swords. Arnie himself agreed.
“You don’t leave the trainers and the tutorial group. They’re going to teach us magic and swordplay!”
“I’m not flying.”
That last part came from Chester, and Fightipilota put in drily.
“We’re not flying anyone back to Liscor, anyways. We’re headed to Nombernaught, and unless you want to go there…we’ll figure this out on our way back. Especially since a lot of you have the [Poo Explosion] Skill, and that’s not going away anytime soon.”
That did settle that. Russell stood there, asking questions of Chickenruler about his Frost Wyvern. He actually even got close enough to feed Coldcream a piece of ham; the Wyvern licked it out of his hand, and the barbed tongue reminded Russell of a cat.
“How does it stay aloft? And those scales—how tough are they?”
Not that he had any inclination of tangling with a Wyvern, but the more Chickenruler explained how Wyverns had some kind of internal balloon that made them almost weight-negative and how they hunted from above, the more glad Russell was that he hadn’t gone anywhere near a nest.
If my bolt-action even goes through their scales, I’d need to hit their heads, and there’s no guarantee I’d kill them even if I had a perfect shot. The idea of Wyverns just dropping at you out of the sky…he’d have to keep his head up.
Beautiful, though. Coldcream nuzzled Chickenruler’s hand, and the [Wyvern Rider] grinned—right up until Arnie came over to ask about whether or not you needed a crystal or collar or something to tame the Wyverns. He seemed exceptionally disappointed when Chickenruler told him he had to capture a Wyvern then win their trust and affection.
“Is there like a gauge or stat you can see? I guess I’ll have to pierce the veil first before I can play around with the internal mechanics of the world.”
Chickenruler eyed Arnie as he went over to keep asking Falene for magical lessons. Russell shifted on one foot.
“Sorry about that.”
“Yah. You definitely new here. Don’t talk like that to actual Drakes. Or anyone who has animal friends.”
The Goblin appeared vaguely offended, but Russell bent his head to whisper as he patted Coldcream gingerly on the mane.
“I was advised to be careful about other factions. Should I be worried about Drakes?”
“You want my opinion on Drakes?”
“If you have one.”
Chickenruler’s face screwed up with novel amusement, then he sombered. Looked Russell up and down.
“Yah, I heard they snatchy with you people. You watch out for the Walled Cities. And normal Drake cities. They pretty bad too. Killed lots of Gnolls, so why not Humans? Gnolls okay…some of them. But Humans! Peh! Worst of the lot! Tons of nasty ones. House Veltras, any Reinhart not called ‘Magnolia’—”
“Wait, slow down. Walled Cities. Gnolls…who have tribes? All these are different powers, right?”
“Oh sure, tons of powers. Other people know more.”
Chickenruler was airy as Russell reviewed some notes he’d made with the others about the state of this world. It confirmed his suspicions: there was a need for some paranoia, if not towards good men like Ylawes Byres.
“But we’re just a group of Humans. If we obey Drake laws, we should be able to pass through their lands just fine, correct?”
The Goblin eyed Russell once as he scratched Coldcream delicately along the eye ridges.
“Sure, maybe. Safe as Humans in Drake lands get, I guess. But you not just any Humans. You Earthers. All them groups I name? They all collect you. Like, uh, shiny rocks. They snatch you, you not get free. They try that to even Erin, the [Innkeeper] everyone knows.”
“They do? Who tried that?”
Russell’s heart began to beat faster, and Chickenruler replied in a matter-of-fact voice.
“Pallass sort of tried I guess? I dunno, I not know politics. But Roshal definitely tried. Put her on a ship. Then she got free. That was a big fight at sea. Now she not at the inn, just so you know.”
“Where is she?”
“Eh…Baleros? She not able to come back. Because she knife that [Prince] in the heart. Awesome stab.”
Russell stood there as he realized the young woman who had met him was not just a simple person in this world, but deep in it. So famous that any random person he met might know her name or have an opinion about her.
That, of course, made him like her more, even if it made him warier of her. And some of her friends.
 
——
 
Fightipilota poked Ylawes as she leaned against one wall of the waystation. Nailren was frowning at Russell, who was engaging Chickenruler in talk.
“Hey, Captain Ylawes. Sorry about all the racisms. Quick question…who’s that?”
She nodded at Russell, and Ylawes explained how they’d met. Fighti’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s what it is. He’s got a gun.”
“You know what it is?”
“Smells familiar. He’s dangerous. Not sure if he recognized me—you really are a lucky idiot. If he shot you, you’d be very dead, armor or not. Well…Chieftain will want to get what he’s got, but we’ll see if we want to bring them back. Goblinhome doesn’t need more trouble.”
On that, they could both agree. Now that she understood who he was, Fighti relaxed a bit, though it interested Ylawes to notice Russell glance at her now and then. As if she disconcerted him.
Some kind of shared sense they had? At any rate, he was conferring with Fighti as well over their situation, and she was shrugging.
“If you want us to carry you to Liscor, we can. Not right now—but I’ll tell Chieftain Rags, and she could send Wyverns. Might take a long while—we’d have to go back, then I need to run escort for them. Three weeks?”
“That’s a long time! It’s tempting—I don’t know how well we’d fly, and we’d still be in trouble in the north, I suspect.”
“Well, you spending one week pooping here. So think about it!”
She slapped his arm, and he winced. At this, Nailren sidled over.
“Ylawes, I hate to interject. But it seems like you and this young group of Humans have become quite close.”
“Earthers.”
Fighti helpfully supplied, and Nailren exhaled, looking mildly gratified, but also annoyed.
“I thought so. Well, that takes the fun out of that mystery. I’d love to know more—then again, I don’t have any tribe nearby. What is that young man carrying?”
He indicated Russell, and Fighti again supplied.
“Gun. Wait, who this guy? We friends?”
Ylawes nodded, and she frowned at Nailren vaguely, as if trying to place him. For his part, the Gnoll’s ears twitched.
“…Some device from Earth?”
“A dangerous one, apparently. Russell claims it’s how he’s kept his team alive so far. Fighti agrees.”
Ylawes didn’t know what the device did, but he had felt his [Dangersense] going off. Nailren hmmed, appearing unhappy.
“You’re sending them to the inn, though?”
“Yup.”
“Then it’s not my business. We’re deep enough in the New Lands as it is, and the Meeting of Tribes has all the information it needs, I suspect.”
Nailren dusted his paws as if literally to absolve himself of the problems, and Fighti nodded.
“They too much work for us too. Plus none of them have Kevin-energy, so we don’t really want to make friends. That guy, Arnie? He got anti Kevin-energy. Even if he figured out how we evolve. But he make it weird. Honarai cool, and Lenora good at drawing. Chester…Chieftain Rags might like him.”
She shook her head, and both she and Nailren turned and favored Ylawes with a smile. And he realized, much to his indignation, that neither one wanted to help the Earthers. Yes, they were innocent-ish children from another world, lost and stranded.
But they were kind of a pain in the ass to deal with.
 
——
 
After a while, Fighti decided it was time to go. Fun as this was, they had to fly, and the Silver Swords were restocked.
“We’ll come back if we find a cure. No promises. Drink lots of water, eat some salt; it helps with the pooping. Hey, kid, you take care of yourself. Got it?”
She saluted Rasktooth, who stared up at her and nodded as Chickenruler hopped on the Wyvern’s back. Woll was back to give them more tea and remind them to head here again, but Fighti stopped.
“Hey, Ylawes, those Earthers you got…is something wrong with them? Did they eat some brain-maggots? The one called Arnie is creepy. He’s just staring at me.”
Ylawes eyed the young man, and turned around with Fighti.
“They’re, um, awkward. The one called Honarai is just as random, but the others are quite decent. Russell seems like a good man, just very worried.”
“Honarai? She’s cool. Reminds me of the future.”
What did you say to that? Ylawes coughed.
“Er, yes? We do want to get them to the inn, and maybe it would be best to arrange transport on foot. We could get them an Overnight Carriage and some gold. It’s just hard to arrange. Mrsha hasn’t been calling regularly…”
Fighti inhaled, and he grew anxious.
“Is she alright?”
“What? Yeah. Sure, sure…but, uh, no wonder she hasn’t been calling. She’ll be back. But maybe in a bit? You could tell the inn. Maybe they don’t want more drama, though. You could, I dunno, take care of them?”
He fidgeted.
“That’s, ah, quite difficult out here.”
Fighti pulled a face.
“Yeah, I know. It’s just that Drakes do pay attention to who’s flying, and Lilbrasi’s Skill won’t work on them. I’ll ask. It’ll be her problem. And we’re not keeping them. My man Kevin’s the only Earther who has a free pass in our base. Everyone else walks there and back.”
She grinned. Ylawes’ face clouded, and he shuffled his feet, then spoke.
“Kevin’s…dead, Fighti. At the Winter Solstice. I don’t know if you…”
He trailed off, and for one moment, her head turned and that strange impossibility shone into his eyes. She peered around, then shook her head.
“Nah.”
“But I was told…they were sure of…”
Her eyes glittered, and she put a finger to her lips.
“You gotta go back and ask. Like I said, a Solstice event for the records. Not while we’re being watched. Too many eyes, even here. Like that guy. Who is he, again? He’s with the inn or he’d better be if we’re talking around him.”
She jerked a thumb at the Gnoll she didn’t recognize, and he blinked. Ylawes pivoted.
“—That’s Nailren. He’s from Liscor too. I mean, he was a Silver-ranker who went to Erin’s inn sometimes.”
“What?”
Fighti whirled, embarrassed. She’d never met Nailren! She waved at him.
“Sorry!”
“Not at all. I should have introduced myself. Nailren, formerly a Silver-rank Captain. Now [Explorer]. May I compliment Lilbrasi on her fine work? Though I think you could raise your prices.”
Fighti shook his hand and then saw him make a fist. She performed The Wandering Inn’s new, secret handshake, and he did a twirl and offered her finger guns. That made her like him. She grinned.
“It’s goodwill over gold. Or artifacts or important stuff. We’ve got lots of food right now, actually. Things are good.”
“Very sensible.”
“So, uh, what’re you doing here?”
Chickenruler was almost ready for takeoff, but Fighti was hugely embarrassed by not knowing this stranger whom she had a connection to. Nailren produced a scroll from his belt pouches.
“Working on a map, actually. It’s hardly detailed, but…”
“Ooh! Lilbrasi’s going to want that. Hey, great detailing! I recognize some of this!”
[Basic Cartographer] or not, Nailren calculated how far he’d ridden per day and done an actually extremely thorough job of mapping out each area he’d crossed. Fighti tapped the map.
“I didn’t know there was an inn. We might have to stop there. Get a drink. Heh. Looks right to me.”
“Really? It’s so patchwork until we get to the grasslands.”
Ylawes was frowning at the almost checkerboard-like way the Coral Lands, the grasslands, and other areas were scattered around, and Fighti shrugged.
“That’s how it looks close to the edges. I think it’s like…spread out. Maybe the magic got weird near the edges? When you get further in, you get big areas like this. Nice name too.”
She jerked a thumb at Kishkeria’s Grasslands. Then pointed.
“There’s some weird icy area that moves in the center-north, and that gorge is huge. You get some very nice canyons that way—we had to dodge Wyverns there. Even the Coral Lands stretch out for ages. You just have to keep riding.”
“I’m going to need to ride for a month or more to cover that ground. Or just take what I can map and trust others to do the rest. I envy your bird’s eye view.”
Nailren sighed, not too unhappy, but she saw how his eyes lit up at the places she mentioned, and they were only a few. Fighti peered at him, then glanced at Ylawes. He seemed super-honest, so she spoke casually to the Gnoll.
“So you really were at the inn? When was this? The Horns, when Rags was still with her first tribe?”
The Gnoll scratched at his chin.
“No, I’m after their era. I don’t know the inn’s history that well—I’d be after the Horns went to Albez, when the dungeon was opening. I was just hanging around; not nearly like a regular. I saw the Face-Eater Moth attack and fought the Raskghar, but only that.”
“Oh, oh, you were with the Redfang Five era! Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Rabbiteater, Badarrow, Numbtongue. The legends.”
Even among the Redfangs, they had attained a kind of immortality. A moment when five Goblins had all become Hobs and been…at the inn. Nailren smiled.
“I was. It was a shock to see them.”
“Eh, you didn’t try to kill them, it’s fine.”
She tested him gently, and he coughed, abashed.
“Well, I’d never be stupid enough to try and test five Hobs who were clearly good fighters. But, well, you see and hear a lot of things if you travel far enough. I knew there was a precedent. Baleros and the Isle of Goblins. Seafolk have a different relationship with Goblins. Cenidau too.”
“I was surprised by that. Evor accepted Rasktooth quite quickly.”
Ylawes remarked, and Nailren shrugged.
“You have to see it how they do. Northfolk would probably kill Goblins, but they’re low on the priority list. There are some tribes in the north, and they likely are as dangerous as bandits. After seeing them on television? Evor might have talked to Rasktooth if he’d met him and Infinitypear alone. One can only hope. The trauma from the Goblin King is fresh in Izril, Ylawes. There were points in time when Goblins didn’t evoke the instinctual fear and hatred they do now.”
“I can’t imagine that.”
“Trust me, Gnolls have made alliances with every species in our history. I used to pester my [Shaman] for the strangest tales as a cub, and they have some oddities! Remind me to tell you about the Gnoll who shaved himself and masqueraded as a [Prince] for four years before getting found out.”
Fightipilota snorted, and Ylawes gave Nailren an incredulous smile, but she felt like the Gnoll was quite capable.
“Anything you need? Or we can help with? A friend of Erin’s is a friend of ours.”
Nailren thought a moment and shook his head.
“No, but there is one thing. I told Nanette about these sea gardens, as I call them, where you can grow plants. If you were to spot them—and I have a warning for you, actually. About ghosts.”
Ylawes slapped his forehead, and Fighti’s jaw dropped. She’d neither known about the sea gardens or the ghosts.
“You serious? This isn’t a joke you’re playing, right? Because I’m gonna tell Lilbrasi, and if it’s a joke, everyone’s going to laugh at me. And that means I’ll come back and throw a ham on the ground in front of you.”
She warned them, and Ylawes assured her seriously it was not.
“I ran into them myself. Actually, I have something we found—or we could give you as a thank-you…let me get it.”
He headed off, and Nailren folded his arms.
“As we casually stand here, I just would like to assure you it is true, Fightipilota, and you can laugh or nod or not react at all. Because at this very moment, I do have proof and even an example—a friendly ghost I met. Spoony will now poke your shoulder, and you hopefully won’t make anyone try to listen in on us…if they are, they are. But adult Gnolls tend to have to focus and give themselves away when they’re isolating sounds.”
And then there was a poke on Fightipilota’s arm, cold and gentle, and she managed not to leap up and shout. She gave Nailren a wide-eyed look.
“You took one?”
“Well. I thought it was interesting.”
He was crazy. He really did come from The Wandering Inn! Fighti shook her head.
“Lilbrasi is going to be all over this. Where’s Numbtongue when you need him? Probably seducing, I dunno, some half-Giantess or something. I have seen the sea gardens you mentioned. I think. But we had to fly fast and keep an eye out for trouble. This time, I could land and check them out.”
Nailren’s eyes brightened.
“Feel free to share it wherever you go, but if you’d credit me, I’d be very grateful. Just a bit of vanity. The ghosts…I think it’s important people know that, too. But it occurs to me it might be better to not tell people that. Let justice sort itself out. Or maybe telling prevents…no, nothing would prevent it, sadly. But if you’d map out some sea gardens or anything, I’d love a copy of a map if you leave it with Woll.”
He peered wistfully at the Frost Wyvern. Fightipilota had a crazy idea, even by her standards, as Ylawes came jogging back.
“Fighti, I have a gift for you. It’s not much, but…what’s your preferred weapon?”
“Me? I’d love a flare gun. Right now, it’s just a hand-crossbow because of my Skill. I use a shortsword with it, but I don’t have one I like.”
Fighti tapped her side, and Nailren’s brows rose. Ylawes didn’t get what she meant either, but he fumbled and handed her a long blade of…
Fighti almost dropped the Mithril blade. She blinked at it, then her jaw dropped when he leaned forwards and whispered what it was.
“You sure?”
“We have a number. We’d send them with you, but they’re useful as, well, bartering objects. Not that I want to make a habit of that.”
“Can I have another? And, uh, do you have like two hundred pounds of it? Got an axe?”
Ylawes handed an axehead over then eyed Fighti.
“…Why two hundred pounds?”
“I think they’d make great wings for a project I’m working on. No? Damn. Next Solstice event, then. So…we’re heading off now.”
Fighti jerked a thumb at the Wyvern waiting for takeoff and resolved to get Ylawes something nice. Mithril sword. No one had better try to confiscate it back home! She glanced at Nailren, who sighed.
“I might be gone, but if Captain Ylawes’ people are sick as we think, he might be around. I may ask you to leave anything with them.”
“Yeah…about that. I don’t like drawing, and I don’t like drawing on Wyvernback. Hard to do that and aim the Thunderbow. And there is bad stuff up there. Can’t be distracted.”
Nailren blinked, but nodded.
“Of course, practicality first. It was just a thought.”
Fighti smiled tightly.
“Well…if there was a third person, they could draw a map and hand us crummy sandwiches. Damn, we should have made some! Oh well. If you want to map the New Lands so bad, no one’s flying solo but us. It’s sort of dangerous, but we have a trump card. Wanna come with?”
Nailren blinked at Fighti in true, genuine astonishment, and Ylawes’ mouth opened.
“Nailren? Fly with you?”
“I…don’t know. I’ve never flown.”
“Eh, it’d only be a week. Less, really. We’re going to Nombernaught and back. We can’t fly all the New Lands, but you can see a lot. Just an offer.”
But who’d fly with a pair of Goblins? Only a crazy person would. Fighti held her breath even though she didn’t know if this was a good idea. Rags would kill her.
If she found out. It was crazy, funny, Fighti had a trump card, and the Gnoll was from the inn. He hesitated, glanced back at the keep, and for some reason, sniffed.
“How long did you say dysentery lasts for?”
“I dunno. Week or more if it’s nasty.”
He paused, then Nailren turned away.
“Let me arrange for my horse to stay here. Ylawes, can you see to it? I’ll get my things.”
“Nailren? Are you serious? You want to fly?”
The Gnoll turned, and Fighti saw a smile almost as fearless as hers, and Nailren began to stride off.
“It’s a new era, Ylawes. We already know Gnolls can fly. Why shouldn’t I?”
And that was how Fightipilota found herself with a new guest, and Nailren found himself seeing the New Lands as few people had before. He couldn’t tell if that was the wonder—or Fightipilota.
He really, really, wondered what had happened at the inn this time.
 
——
 
[Memo: Fightipilota].
“Fightipilota, check in. We’ve established where Rianchi is. He’s fine. All nominal here. Progress and sitrep. (I’m using your silly language.)”
You got twenty-five words with Rags’ [Memo] Skill, which Woll and Salii would have considered short, but it was still powerful. Fightipilota’s reply took twenty-five minutes, which already told Rags something when she sent it.
“Hey, Chieftain. Not silly language. Got to Woll’s Waystation. Nice place. Dysentery though. Met Silver Swords and Rasktooth. Also Nailren. He’s flying with us. Later!”
Twenty-five words exactly. Because Rags could only use that Skill a limited number of times per day, Fightipilota had probably twenty-four hours before any trouble came her way. She put her feet up on the Thunderbow.
Heh.
In truth, her new friend did have her checking her six now and then because it was strange to have any non-Goblin flying with them. Chickenruler thought Fighti was crazy, obviously, but they got bored on the trip.
And Nailren was interesting, even if he didn’t talk much. For one thing, even though he could see them as Goblins, he seemed more focused on staring down and working on his map. He made conversation, of course, but it was all so…normal.
“There’s a Sea Garden. And another. Looks like this area is rife with them. It might be a splendid spot to settle. Do you think your tribe’s aiming for a spot like that?”
When they hesitated, he glanced up.
“Don’t answer me if it’s secret. I just thought it was obvious they’d relocate after the incident in the High Passes. And the New Lands is the perfect place to go, isn’t it?”
Fighti coughed.
“Maybe. Chieftain Rags isn’t keen on the mana-drain stuff. Which is why she’s moving slow. Also, she’s gotta kick the new Goblins into line. But since there’s that magic ritual, we don’t need the Sea Gardens, right?”
Nailren scribbled on his map as he glanced at her.
“Not necessarily. A few things struck me about Archmage Eldavin’s magic. He came out with it very fast. Which might mean that he knows the issue or he’s just that talented, but in my experience, [Mage]-magic is famous for being refined. [Shaman]-magic is spontaneous but tends to be the best result if you put the effort in.”
“Oh, really? I didn’t know that. Why that matter?”
Chickenruler frowned, and Nailren gestured back the way they’d come. Woll’s Waystation was already a dot on the horizon, if that wasn’t Fighti imagining she could even see it. And the New Lands kept going. The grasslands were just the first step; they’d come to some rocky terrain, but those Sea Gardens were like vibrant specks amidst the harshness. No one on ground level would think something like that existed, and but for Nailren, they wouldn’t have known what it was either. He went on, thoughtful.
“Well, has anyone tested the quality of the soil that Eldavin’s spell creates? My guess is it’s average, or even below-average, for quality at best. I know [Farmers] put a lot of stock in the value of soil. These Sea Gardens sprout with life. Either the soil’s magic or just the highest quality. And the mana to perform that ritual is not light, even if it’s within reach of other casters. Settling in a place like this might be worth not having to deal with the soil issues.”
Dead gods, he sounded like, well, Chieftain Rags. She had thought the soil ritual wasn’t refined yet. But mostly…Fighti stared at Nailren until he glanced up.
“Do I have anything wrong? I’d love to be corrected. I don’t know Goblin tribes that well, so this is all extrapolation.”
“No, not that. How…how do you know how Goblins think?”
Nailren smiled briefly at her dumbstruck expression.
“Goblin tribes and Gnoll tribes have a lot of similarities. Even if we’re different species, I can still guess. I’m pleased to know I’m not that far off base. With that said, I’m not at home in the air.”
He peered down, and Fighti saw him shudder.
“Thankfully, I’m not that afraid of heights, but if there’s anything I should know…”
“Don’t fall. Never take your seatbelt off. Um…if you see something coming in the air, shout. Oh, and Frost Wyverns don’t like flying in rain, so we avoid that.”
He nodded, peering around alertly.
“How dangerous is it, flying closer to the ground like this?”
Fighti shrugged.
“Better than clouds.”
“Really?”
“Yep. Clouds hide things. Also, Coldcream gets tired flying higher and maintaining altitude.”
“Truly? I thought he’d glide along on hot air like birds do.”
Fighti snorted and patted the animal affectionately.
“Not Wyverns. They have something in them that inflates and deflates. Makes them light. It’s how they dive so fast; they turn it off and boom. Super heavy. But it means it takes energy to keep going high. Easier to stay low-ish. Mana drain gets Wyverns too, and if something does come up, eh, we usually have a minute at least.”
Nailren nodded.
“The Thunderbow’s your first offense?”
Chickenruler called back.
“First offense is [Burst of Speed]! Or [Bond: Noxious Fart]!”
He cackled as Coldcream huffed, embarrassed, and Fighti whispered.
“That’s his actual Skill. I’m second-offense. I shoot, we dodge. We might go upside down or something. You a good shot with the bow?”
“I’m better stationary at long ranges, but yes, I can ride and shoot.”
“Good. Aim for wings.”
Nailren glanced around.
“Most [Wyvern Riders] would have similar precautions and gear and fly in a full wing. Your trump card that you think will keep you safe…let’s say something bypasses all of our defences. How fast can you activate it?”
She grinned.
“Very fast. Then I have five seconds.”
He paused.
“To activate or…”
“To kill or hurt whatever’s coming at us. Chickenruler runs, and I attack, then catch up. If I fall, I stay in cover until you find me. Fly off if you have to.”
Nailren blinked at Fightipilota, and she bared her teeth.
“Not sure if it’s a good trump card?”
“Just wondering if I’ll get to see it.”
She hmmed as Chickenruler glanced over his shoulder with Coldcream.
“Maybe. Maybe. You good at keeping secrets? We are trusting you.”
Nailren smiled.
“I’m the best at keeping secrets. If we’re on the same side or not opposed, rest assured, they’re kept.”
“Which side is that? Your team’s?”
“Gnolls and Goblins.”
“Oh. The big sides.”
“Yes. Some might say that we’re not obliged to be on those sides, and that’s fair. I’ve chosen that point of view.”
Fighti nodded, resting her feet up for a bit.
“I think those are good sides. I like yours. I think Chieftain Rags does too. Well, we’ll see if I need to use it. Like right now if you two don’t stop staring and pull up!”
They were diving again and nearly hit a tall hill of rocks before they got over it. Fighti sighed.
 
——
 
The first night’s camp with Nailren was pleasant; the Gnoll pointed out those coral tree patches and helped set up a fire and tarp for Coldcream to sleep under and hide from other predators. Everyone was keen on not finding out what preyed on Frost Wyverns.
Nailren even broke out some honey to eat with the Cenidau bread, and a little pot of gumbo from the remainder of fresh food that the two Goblins had brought filled the stomach nicely.
There wasn’t much to do at night other than keep an eye out. Nailren offered to, but Fighti waved it off.
“We’re fine. There’s a reason Chickenruler is the one who flies New Lands. It takes a bunch of Redfangs and two Wyverns without him. He’s a [Paranoid Sleeper].”
“Super paranoid. I have lots of Goblin Skills. Good at staying alive. Eleven years. I’m like 88 in Human years.”
Nailren’s brows rose, but he nodded.
“I also have Spoony. She’ll alert me if there’s trouble. You can guard, right, Spoony?”
“YES.”
She pointed on the board, and Fighti shivered. He really was crazy. And practical! He even set up a little rope trap; just some rope strung around with heavy stones that’d slow anything coming their way. That done, they settled down.
Aside from lookout and conversation, once you were done with that, it was time to rest. You tended towards early mornings and early sleeping in the wild. Unless you had some business at night.
Fighti fidgeted as they were lying down. She coughed.
“Eh, Chickenruler.”
He had a sleeping mask on his eyes, and he lifted it as Coldcream wore a huge version of the same.
“Wat.”
“Um, well, we’re sleeping and obviously it’s very bad if we jumped, but it’s not long till midnight. So…do you think we’re mostly safe?”
He gave her a long, studying look, then eyed Nailren.
“Sure, with our Gnoll friend.”
“Okay. Well, then, maybe I’ll…”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Chickenruler waved her off. Fightipilota went hopping out of their shelter excitedly, searching for an open spot. Nailren’s brows rose.
“It’s dark out there.”
“Dark better be afraid of her right now. You look up, maybe you see her.”
That was the enigmatic comment from the older Goblin. Nailren was stepping out of the shelter when he sensed and heard something—strange.
A roaring sound like nothing he’d heard before. He flinched back as wind struck his face, heart pounding, and aimed a bow up. He saw—something—soaring upwards, saw the flash of moonlight on a metallic surface, and his nose smelled something foul and acrid, but not quite like what he’d noticed around Russell.
“What was—”
Five seconds. For five seconds, something split the night, silencing bugs, fading away as it went up, up, up—so high he couldn’t imagine the velocity. Then it stopped, and a hush fell over the world.
Nailren stared upwards, but whatever it was was gone. When he walked back into the camp, Chickenruler’s eyemask was off his face, and he and Coldcream were staring up.
“What was that? Is it a secret?”
Chickenruler glanced at Nailren and sat back in the little hammock he’d strung up.
“Eh, she probably didn’t want to show you in the dark. If we see trouble, you see it. Sure, it secret. Everything secret. What you think?”
“I…don’t know what to think. I’ve never heard that or seen that in my life.”
Nailren sat, shaken, wondering where Fighti was. Had she sent something up?
Chickenruler just smiled as he lay there.
“Good. That means it all ours.”
“Where’s Fighti?”
“She coming down.”
Now, Nailren went out again, and he had to stare up for a while before he saw the odd, oblong shape in the air. He watched as the parachute steered itself towards their camp, and then she landed amidst the coral foliage.
“Fuck. Ow. Damn.”
She crashed down, and he went to cut her out, but then the parachute vanished and Fighti strode back into camp. She was breathless, eyes bright with delight, and innocently walked over to her hammock as he stood there. Chickenruler was already snoring, or pretending to. Nailren saw her catch his eye.
“What?”
There was mischief in her grin as she lay back down. Nailren just exhaled and sat down.
Dead gods. He had to stop smiling every day or he was going to make a habit of it.
 
——
 
Fightipilota’s great Skill, the one that had taken another world to create, made her one of the deadliest things in the sky…for five seconds.
Actually, five point six seconds, she was fairly certain; she’d hit Level 18, and it seemed to be pushing her Skill higher. She could use her Skill every day, and it was…powerful.
There was no other word for it. Her Skill was the only reason she and Chickenruler were allowed to fly solo, or at all, in the New Lands. With that said, it was far from invincible.
5.6 seconds was a long, long time for anything she didn’t like. But her Skill was balanced by a few factors, and the time limit was actually the least of her concerns. Fighti saved her Skill for nightfall as a treat if she could, but it was far from guaranteed.
She knew it probably scared Nailren. She knew it scared Chickenruler and Coldcream to some extent. It…okay, everyone who saw and understood what her Skill did treated her like a monster.
It was weird to go from being the silly Goblin with dreams of flight and a funny name to one of the Flooded Waters Tribe’s biggest weapons. And that was what she was, wasn’t she?
A weapon.
True, she was good at flying the New Lands. Fighti thought she had a good personality, could crack jokes, put in her fair share in any task, and so on, but she was battle now. She had been a flier.
There was a difference. Here was that difference: Naumel, the Kraken Eater’s [Chieftain], and Redscar.
Naumel was a beast in combat, able to regenerate, with amazing tactical abilities, and he had thrown down with even Named-rankers. He was unquestionably the Goblin you wanted when there was blood and danger.
Outside of danger, Naumel was no one’s favorite Goblin, even among the Kraken Eaters. He was lazy. He didn’t train, he had bad hygiene—
“And he farts.”
“He does? I thought he just stink.”
The conversation as the trio flew over the Eternal Grasslands tended towards gossip. Fighti and Chickenruler had to holler at each other normally, which precluded long conversations. But Nailren had offered to try and man the Thunderbow, which let the two Goblins gossip.
He was still getting used to flying, and the revelation about Fighti’s abilities, but he sat, able to hear them, if disinclined to join their conversation. Fighti thought he was paying attention, though. Their eyes roamed the sea of yellow grass, and she could well imagine how Russell’s group had been stuck here so long.
Coldcream flew fast with Rags’ and Chickenruler’s Skills, and it’d still take at least another full day of travel to get out of this area. On foot, where you might go in a circle? She wondered if there was anything to eat here. It didn’t look like it, nor did it have many of those Sea Gardens that Nailren talked about.
You either have to hunt, have your own provisions, or have something that eats grass or you’re dead or eating the grass yourself. Dark. Anyways—she leaned on Chickenruler’s seat and shouted.
“No, he has farting competitions! His Fomirelin? Some are clean. Others are gross. So big they say, ‘why bother cleaning when it all get dirty’? Yuck.”
“I not hang out with them.”
“Yeah, well, I have to since they respect me. Naumel sucks. No one likes him. Even his Kraken Eaters like our people better.”
“Really?”
Chickenruler was close to an original Flooded Waters tribe Goblin; he hadn’t been from Rags’ first, tiny tribe, but he’d been absorbed before the Redfangs, so he had a lot of pride. Fighti felt the same and nodded importantly.
“Snapjaw is very popular because she’s a Fomirelin. Also everyone knows her teeth are sexy.”
“Oh yah. Nothing like someone who can eat half a Corusdeer in a bite. But she and Badarrow are very nice.”
“True…she had to kick a few idiots who didn’t care. There’s also Prixall.”
“Everyone like a good hat. And mask. Let me guess, Poisonbite not very popular?”
“Hah! She tried flirting with a Fomirelin lady and got laughed at. Very hilarious. Everyone likes Student Rags, and Kraken Eaters really like Gothica.”
“Ergh. Glad they working with us if Naumel not that popular. They really not like him?”
“His tribe eats green meat. Once he got his butt kicked by Chieftain Rags, they decided they can fight with us and not eat spoiled food. Besides, all Naumel does is laze. He doesn’t train since he thinks you should fight at least once a week in a life-or-death struggle. Chieftain Rags has him killing monsters and he’s still bored. So he just sits, complains, eats, watches the scrying orb, or has sex.”
“…Sounds like a Redfang. Stop kicking my seat! Stop kicking my—”
Fighti stopped. She folded her arms.
“He made like sixteen babies already.”
“Arcsinger’s arrow in my eye. That way too many!”
“Yeah, well, he stopped when Chieftain Rags said he has to help raise them. Kraken Eaters love making babies. Lots of them kept bugging me about it. That’s how they think. ‘If you’re strong, babies gotta be stronger’.”
She harrumphed. Then sat there and gave voice to that feeling.
“It’s just…that’s Naumel, you know? Everyone tolerates him because he’s a good weapon. Not a good person. But Redscar, he’s all good. Everyone likes Redscar.”
“Eh, he okay.”
“No, you know what I mean! He’s teaching Goblins all his lessons from the [Palace of Fates]. For fun, he’s experimenting with swords, training, trying new techniques out—Goblins want to be him. He’s the reason the Redfangs aren’t just…part of the Flooded Waters tribe. He’s keeping us alive. He’s a weapon and a person. And I’m more like Naumel, I guess.”
She said that quietly, but Chickenruler twisted in his seat.
“You not. Everyone know Fightipilota, everyone knows you brought back good stuff from New Lands. They say to me all the time, ‘that Fighti, she crazy, but she good! Now she got her class that’s great.’”
“No one says that. Don’t lie, Chickenruler.”
“They do! They do!”
“Name one person who said that.”
“Uh, well, Gothica.”
Fighti didn’t dignify that with a response. She just stared down at the grasslands and saw Wyverns falling from the sky. Little crosshairs dancing over their [Riders] begging her to stop, screaming at her as she shot their hearts out from under them.
Skies filled with smoke and flaming planes plunging down and the Goblin King howling. Her fingers twitched as Chickenruler glanced at her. What she didn’t say was that the reason Rags made her liaison with so many of the new Goblins was because Fighti could boss everyone around.
Kraken Eaters, future Goblins, even Naumel would eye her and listen. They had all seen what she carried.
A bit of Ragathsi of Civilization’s madness. A piece of her burning, mechanical heart and the death it spat across nations. A weapon from the future was what Fighti had stolen from the [Palace of Fates]. She didn’t regret it; they needed her power.
But she had just wanted to fly. Chickenruler was pursing his lips.
“So, uh—glad Rianchi okay. Fightipilota, hey, you know, not every newcomer is bad. Many of those Trolls, they’re deep thinkers. Not big on talking until you get them going. And Cazmaw, well, he dumb as his Chieftain, but we got to talking one time. He sort of admire you. Maybe when we get back he gives you a watermelon and you show him around?”
“Bleh.”
“Well, okay, yeah. He only into you for your Skill, and he huge. But, uh—”
Fighti leaned over the Wyvern’s wing and pointed down.
“Hey. There’s another group. Let’s say hello.”
She was grateful for the interruption. So was Chickenruler, and they banked downwards. It wasn’t hard to see a group if they were flying over them in the grasslands. But most that Fighti had seen were not doing well.
 
——
 
[Merchants] looking weary, underfed, and pushing wagons through the unpaved terrain. Exhausted adventurers asking for a lift. Colonist groups begging for a landmark, anything—
And a very cheerful group of smiling Humans. Fighti almost told Chickenruler to fly the moment they saw all the smiles. It felt like a trap.
“Hello, hello and welcome to Frontier Caravan #4! We’re settling this outpost in the name of House Reinhart and Lord Calidus! Can I offer you a cup of rainwater? Peanut? Almond? Dekac? Treepopper?”
A slightly dishevelled man with loose clothing was part of a rather worn caravan on the leading edge of the other expeditions. Not because they had more protections or Skills than anyone else; far from it.
They didn’t have high-level [Guards] or a good leader. But they had been marching with a will, and hunger hadn’t killed them. Their fast pace was odd, as were the smiles. Fighti held out a gloved hand, ready to run like spit for Nailren and Chickenruler, who were sitting on the Wyvern’s back.
She insisted on putting herself in danger, because, well, she was the danger. But this Human man had too-wide pupils, and despite the lines on his face and even a bit of grey in his hair, he had been almost jogging along.
“I’m Fightipilota, er, a [Wyvern Rider] doing deliveries across the New Lands. And you are…?”
“Where are my manners? [Caravan Leader] Mulhot. Well, I’m new to my class, and here I thought the New Lands would be joyful. Ha. HAHAHAHA.”
He threw back his head and started laughing, whereupon a young woman and two men did likewise. They were wandering around, eating, drinking water they’d collected in buckets—very practical.
And they were all quite, quite…there was a strange smell in the air. Fighti eyed the food they were eating. She saw a young woman pour a cup of…nuts.
Nuts of every shape, size, and color. Peanuts. Walnuts she had to crack with one hand. Macadamia nuts. Bobble Nuts, round fat ones that floated across entire seas—
“You, uh, you like nuts, I see.”
Mulhot’s face froze up at the casual comment. He took Fighti’s gloved hand and squeezed it with sudden, frantic strength.
“We killed a rabbit the other day. I nearly ate it raw. Just a bit of oil—nut oil, ha. Hahaha—it’s not hard to make oil if you squeeze the nuts—and the meat! Oh, the meat. So tender. So juicy! Not like nuts. You need water with most nuts, unless they’re container-nuts, in which case they have water inside. That’s how you survive, see? Bocca nuts for when it’s dry. Macadamia nuts for energy. And Zicca nuts forever!”
He threw his hands up, and there was a cheer. Fighti backed up a step.
“…So you don’t…?”
Mulhot’s face went from joyous insanity to desperation in a heartbeat. He pointed a trembling finger at the caravans.
“All we have are nuts. I don’t know how it happened. We—we had regular rations, we thought. All pre-packed, and I even had a storage Skill! That was my job, see? I was hired ‘specially because I had [Storage Crates]. Thought it was odd when I was interviewed since Lord Calidus passed on over a hundred men and women. Then our magic died, and I thought we were lucky. But then I realized—there’s lot of nuts in our provisions. Good! Stores well. But then we ran out of flour, and meat ‘n eggs were long gone, and that was fine. We had nuts! Plenty of energy. But we started opening the provision crates. Bit of food on top of each crate. The rest? It’s all nuts.”
For some reason beyond Fightipilota, this caravan had enough provisions for their journey into the New Lands—but all they had were nuts. Which was good! Nuts were nutrient-dense, could be used in many different ways, and heck, might even grow! They had a few little saplings they’d actually planted in the soil.
“That’s a Kilka nut. Grows in the harshest terrain—volcanic. And we said, well, if it can stand that, why not salt? It’s growing. See? See? Traded some of them to other groups for fruits. Delicious fruits.”
They were very, very not well. When Fighti offered them one of her bad sandwiches, they tried to give her armfulls of nuts. Well, some of Caravan #4 were mad for anything but nuts.
The others? They ate their nuts with a joyous, even relaxed atmosphere. Mulhot pointed at the young woman crunching down nuts.
“That’s Lesile. My daughter. She’s gone mad, I fear.”
“M-mad?”
Fighti didn’t think he was one to talk, but he hissed at her.
“She loves to eat nuts. [Flavored Nuts]. It’s a Skill she got. Along with her class. [Nut Lover]. Don’t laugh. We laughed. Until more of us started getting the class and Skills. You eat nuts for months on end, day after day? Turns out there are nut-Skills. Makes them taste good. Makes you stop going insane over eating them day after day. There’s more. Our arrows were rusting in all that rain. So you see that [Archer] there? Bagbel. He’s got [Craft: Nutshell Arrow]. Makes them out of acorn nuts.”
“…And what’s with the ‘sane’ members of the group? Your eyes look bad.”
Mulhot realized he was cheek-to-cheek with Fighti and drew back, patting her shoulders.
“My mistake! My mistake! I’m so sorry…it’s the Zicca nuts, of course. When we realized all we had were nuts, we found an encyclopedia in the crates. Of nuts! There’s lots of magical ones in here. Zicca nuts give you energy. Make you a bit—crazy. But they keep you cheerful. Ha. HA.”
So that’s how they were moving at such a pace. The entire damn caravan was high on nuts! Mulhot was pointing a finger ahead.
“The grasslands end, and we figure if we find a good camp spot we can hunt. Fish. That’ll be the end of the madness.”
“Why didn’t you turn around when you realized all you had were nuts?”
He gave her a look as if she was crazy.
“We all had to buy into this expedition, Miss. And how’d we get back without coin? Who wants to buy nuts? Don’t be crazy. But if you go north, if you could send word to Lord Calidus? I-I have a letter. I’ll pay you to send it to him. From all of us. Just tell the Runner not to stick around for a tip. Heh. Heheh. There’s other caravanners like us, you know. Not a one normal. But he’s promised us riches if we find anything worth salvaging. Better nuts than some of their groups.”
“Like what?”
Mulhot shrugged.
“I saw one that was all women. Just…nothing else. Women, teens to an old grandmother. Didn’t trust us. Thought we were all crazy. Us. Then there’s Caravan #3. Good people. Even further ahead than us, despite setting out before. Gonna make it, I think. Didn’t want to stick with us, though. We’d have slowed them down. As for Caravan #8—those poor bastards.”
“Wh-what happened to them?”
“They were all [Nudists]. Worked well enough since they wore shoes. Right up until they got to the grasslands. There’s ticks and bugs here. High grass. Scratchy. Burrs. The rains led to mosquitos. Not a drop of insect repellant among them. But you know what repels some insects? NUTS. HA.”
Fightipilota ended up trading an entire crate of supplies to Mulhot and the ‘sane’ people of Caravan #4. In exchange, she got, well, nuts. She didn’t eat a Zicca nut and only had one last question for Mulhot.
“So you’re still sane? What’s your class? You must have levelled a lot to get this far.”
He hesitated.
“Me? Oh, you could say that. You could say that. I’m a Level 21 [Nut-crazed Caravan Leader]. But I assure you I’m sane!”
They flew off fast, and Nailren checked his fur after they were safely in the air. He made one comment to the Goblins.
“Do you think they have red Skills and classes? Or are the nut-classes just…ordinary? And which one’s scarier?”
“Bet they’re brown. Like nuts.”
Chickenruler muttered darkly. Fighti just kept staring at the little forms as they flew away.
“Who packs a caravan full of nuts?”
 
——
 
Not every group was nuts as…that. In fact, there were entirely normal people. Fighti landed in front of one curious group making their way along a river that were so at home there they were actually wading rather than walking. Because they all had water-Skills, it turned out.
“Jovs of Oswen. We’re all marshfolk. These here Otterdogs, they don’t do well on land, so we’ve stuck to rivers, and it’s not been bad.”
“What about crocodiles and the like?”
Ylawes had related that encounter to Fighti, but the young man just slapped his vest; he was bare-chested beside it.
“Taste good enough. And the fit’s not bad.”
He was wearing a reptile hide vest, and the Otterdogs were very cute as they scampered up to Chickenruler and Coldcream, then went yipping away. Jovs jerked a thumb at his people.
“We’ve done well enough out here. Lost all our magic, same as everyone else, but, well, we never had much. I just wish we had a few [Message] scrolls. We were to link up with other groups from Oswen once we got a good place. Even some of our nobles wanted t’come down, and they’re as good at surviving as any! Damn good shots.”
Hmm. Why did Oswen ring a bell? Fightipilota saw Nailren hesitate as he scratched a few Otterdogs’ bellies, but she gestured around.
“So not many monster attacks? Or you’re just that good at fighting?”
Here, Jovs did hesitate, and he took a fisher’s hat off his head.
“I wouldn’t say that, Miss. I took over for Master Filbou. He didn’t make it. Wyvern attack. Not yours—but you see why we were so wary when it landed? Orange one, even bigger than yonder one. Snapped up three water buffalo with its mate, would have done for even more than six of us—but we were saved by adventurers.”
“Really? Who?”
Jovs pointed up.
“Wings of Pallass. They dove the Wyvern, drew it up and away. We thought they’d gotten eaten, but they netted the Wyvern, then helped us recover our lost goods. Hope they’re well. They weren’t looking great when we last saw them. Two had infected wings, and they were all out of gear.”
“Huh. That’s the sixth time someone mentioned them.”
Fighti had heard similar accounts all across the New Lands. Jovs nodded.
“They were flying cover for the first wave. Brave lot, especially their leader. If you get word back to Oswen, please let Lady Buscrei or Lord Somost know there’s a debt there to be paid?”
“Of course. Hey, how much for an Otterdog? Kidding, kidding…”
Only when they were in the air did Nailren turn to Fightipilota.
“Oswen was destroyed during the Winter Solstice.”
She froze up. Half-turned her head to the merry, waving folk below.
“What? Why didn’t you say something?”
The Gnoll just shook his head as he smiled and waved back.
“Do you want to burden them with that? They might turn around, but for what? It’ll distract them if they even believe us.”
And distracted people die. Fightipilota bit her lip and said nothing as they moved away.
 
——
 
Then they flew, passing by more and more groups as the grasslands finally gave way to new areas. Fightipilota soared over an odd ruin of stone and pointed down at it.
“Say, look at that. Doesn’t look like a dungeon or city.”
The Frost Wyvern circled a group of Drakes who’d stopped and were inspecting the weird patch of stones. It looked like a circle from above, and it had an arch in the center, a big one. A monument? It was like a pot’s lid to Fightipilota, at least from above. Okay, maybe not exactly, but—
“Want to land?”
It was barely fifteen minutes since the Oswen encounter, and Fightipilota hesitated. She waved at the Drakes, and they didn’t seem to be in distress or want her group to land, so she shook her head.
“Nah. If we stop for every group, we’ll never get to Nombernaught. Think I could eat a Zicca nut and live?”
“Live, yes. Happily? Do you want to have a bad experience while flying?”
“Eh…no.”
They flew on, and after a minute, Fightipilota glanced back towards the weird dais of stone. She blinked, then frowned.
“Hey. Where did that Drake caravan go?”
Nailren turned and shaded his eyes. But there was no one there. Wagons, Drakes, everyone had just vanished. Perhaps they’d seen something and used a stealth Skill? Found an underground…but the wagons were gone.
“Should I go back?”
Chickenruler called out. Fighti stared at the dais.
“And do what, land?”
She turned to Nailren, and the Gnoll slowly marked the spot on his map and circled it a few times. Sometimes, you dodged trouble just by luck. And the thing about luck…was that it always ran out.
 
——
 
She saw combat the next day. Pretty soon after they’d risen, too.
“Fighti! You see that?”
“I see it! What is it? Evil wool?”
“It’s a damn cloud! An evil cloud!”
It had been hovering low to the ground, over the rocky ground and Sea Gardens they’d been flying over for Nailren’s mapping, when they realized the odd, white cloud was a bit too…mobile. When it had begun floating up and after them, they’d realized it was alive.
But what it was? None of them were certain. Nailren loosed an arrow, but he was no judge of distance in the air, and it fell way short. Fightipilota knew how the Thunderbow operated, though, and waited until she could fire a shot that dropped and hit the edge of the cloud rising towards them. It ripped—and she squinted.
“Aw.”
Nailren narrowed his eyes, and his fur shivered.
“Aw.”
Chickenruler screamed.
“Aw what? What is it?”
“Spiders.”
Coldcream heard that and began flapping faster. Chickenruler shot a glance over his shoulder, and yep, it was spiders.
White spiders all jumbled together in a cloud. Lighter than air, somehow; their translucent bodies were floating upwards as they crawled in such a swarm that…Nailren hollered.
“I know what those are! Cloudfall Spiders! They’re using webs, and they can project air!”
“Great! So we’re fighting flying spiders! Coldcream, hit them with your breath!”
The Wyvern spun, firing a blast of ice at the Cloudfall Spiders, who slowed and dropped precariously—but the cloud shed the frozen parts and kept rising.
It was a swarm. An annoyingly adaptive swarm; every time Fighti’s Thunderbow punched through their webbing, it didn’t do much to slow their ascent, and they just re-patched the holes and jettisoned any dead weight attached to the bolts. She was growling.
“They’re big. Chickenruler, I’m going to engage!”
“Wait! Let me try to freeze them again—”
Their protocol was to avoid Fighti using her Skill, but she knew before Coldcream whirled and spat that it wasn’t going to work.
The Wyvern Lord might have been able to blast all the spiders in one go, but Coldcream’s breath wasn’t that long-ranged. If he fired it at point-blank, he might do a lot of damage, but then they’d be on him. And she wasn’t sure how sharp their fangs were, but she was pretty sure how she, Nailren, and Chickenruler would fare.
Her heart was thrumming as Chickenruler cursed.
“[Burst of Speed]! Come on, come on…how they so fast?”
“They’ve got the wind behind them. We’re not catching it with a Wyvern’s wings. We should have headed against it.”
Nailren shouted, braced, eyes on Fighti, and she nodded. The spider-cloud was seconds away, and she spoke.
“Chickenruler, dive in three, two, one—”
Coldcream closed his wings and dove, dropping away from the spiders, and Fightipilota’s seatbelt snapped against her chest. She felt her stomach rising as she leapt off the Wyvern’s back, and then she was in freefall. She gazed up, and the white cloud was dropping towards her, big, big, spiders with pink eyes—
“New Lands sucks sometimes. Hey, spiders. [She Flies on Another World’s Wings].”
The Goblin grinned as the world flashed around her. Then she was sitting, hand on the yoke of the roaring aircraft that appeared around her mid-flight. Engines blaring, dials spinning. She pulled the triggers, and there was thunder.
 
——
 
Nailren saw the airplane appear around Fightipilota in a moment. One moment, she was falling, the next, the compact fighter plane with sleek, dark blue metal was rising, and its guns made him clap his hands over his ears.
“Ha! Hahaha.”
Chickenruler was laughing hysterically. His head rose as Nailren’s open mouth followed Fightipilota. She fired for all of one second—then she just flew through the cloud.
Whatever the Cloudfall Spiders had been expecting, running straight into spinning propellor blades moving at three thousand revolutions per minute was not in the plans. They were minced, and Fighti tore through their nest—but her plane had developed an odd sound.
“It’s jammed her spinny-things! Oh no!”
Bits of spider were raining down as Chickenruler and Coldcream shot away, but they began to circle. Nailren saw the plane turning, nose towards him as the roaring of its blades stopped.
Five seconds. He feared Fighti was going to fall right among the spiders she’d torn through until he saw the plane flicker—
It appeared in front of Coldcream, a good five hundred feet, and the Skill vanished. Fightipilota fell, cursing, and her [Deploy Parachute] Skill opened the emergency parachute with the Redfang crest on it. She landed as Coldcream swooped down towards her, and Nailren recovered enough of his wits to shout.
“Jump on!”
The Cloudfall Spider nest was badly damaged, but there were smaller pieces forming as they rebuilt their homes and divided. Fighti ran up Coldcream’s leg as he landed, grabbed Nailren’s paw, and then she was in her seat, buckling up, as they took off.
The next few minutes were making sure they were safe and not being followed. They went against the wind, and Fighti checked herself.
“I think I’m fine. Ow!”
She pulled a tiny white, translucent spider off her neck and grimaced.
“It bit me!”
She had several spiders on her that had been on the plane when it vanished. She yanked them away, cursing.
“They bite hard. They poisonous?”
“I don’t think so.”
Crunch.
“Hm. Good. Tastes like air. Bleh. Ow, they bit my tongue!”
That made Fightipilota less terrifying to Nailren. A bit. But he sat there, and then had a thousand questions. He listened as Fighti caught her breath.
“Okay, no more action today, yeah, Chickenruler?”
“Hope so. Should we land and camp?”
“Eh, eh…maybe a short day. Did you see me go through them?”
He grunted.
“I saw you do that thing you don’t like.”
“Stall out? Yeah, propellor jammed up. Their thread’s tough.”
“Idiot. If you didn’t have your teleport-thing, you’d die.”
Fighti grinned, coming down off her adrenaline-high.
“Yeah, well, I knew I had it. I read the manual while I was in the air! It was close, but I had to do that.”
“You could have just flown around it and shot it all up. That’s smart.”
He was scolding her, despite the admiration of a moment ago, with clear concern for her safety. But the [Fighter Pilot] shook her head, and she visibly calmed.
“Two reasons I couldn’t, Chickenruler. First: bullets were going through the nest. Just like the Thunderbow bolts, but worse because they’re so fast and small. I could have fired spells, but the second reason—I needed to conserve magic and ammunition. I also took damage in that last fight.”
Chickenruler twisted around as Nailren’s brows rose.
“What? How much?”
“Uh…says 5%. Not bad. And I’m down to 89% ammunition. Fuel’s 95%. Hard to run out, but mana is at 33%. New Lands drains it too, maybe even when it’s not active.”
He stroked Coldcream’s neck.
“Who has a summon-thing that takes damage?”
Fighti jerked a thumb at her chest.
“This girl! Don’t worry, it repairs daily. I’ll report to Rags how much tomorrow. But I gotta be safe with it.”
She turned to Nailren, then, and he saw her grinning at him. The Gnoll coughed mildly.
“…From the Solstice event?”
“Yep.”
He took a breath.
“Alright. I hate to ask, but how much did I miss…?”
So she told him a story even he couldn’t believe, and he knew Erin. But the proof was in the skies.
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags was not happy about Nailren nor being told that Fighti was having to manage her plane, but the [Fighter Pilot] had good news for her the next day.
“Chieftain, update. Plane repairs 2% nightly. 3% fuel, 4% mana…1% ammunition. Got to be careful.”
“Avoid engaging where possible. You’ll never believe what Rianchi’s doing. Get me a report on how trustworthy Nailren is now he knows your secret, idiot.”
Well, from her that was practically as good as it got. Fighti sighed as she tried to calculate how each statistic worked. She was fairly certain that the tele-hop function was drawing from fuel and mana—there was no way for her to burn 5% of the fuel in five seconds.
The Skyshadow Mk. 1 was experimental technology from the world of the Goblin King’s future. Top-of-the-line magitech engineering; in it, she could and had killed Pallass’ [Wyvern Riders] with ease.
However, it had drawbacks. Fightipilota had asked for and gotten a rundown on the history of fighter planes from Kevin way back when, and her understanding was that this echoed a very specific time in aviation history.
Dogfighting, planes that went below the speed of sound. It meant the Skyshadow had no ‘missiles’, which she understood were like mini-planes that flew at you and exploded, and fast as it was, it couldn’t traverse the New Lands in a matter of seconds.
It did have a number of magical functions: everything from [Invisibility] to spell attacks she could activate…if the New Lands weren’t draining mana. She wished she had more time in the cockpit. Every five seconds she had another chance to touch a dial or pull this lever and see what it did…
Well, this was enough. More than enough. The autocannons on the Skyshadow had chewed up everything that had come at her in the High Passes and New Lands so far. Now that Nailren knew how well-protected the Frost Wyvern was, he understood that the Flooded Waters tribe was one of the few groups with a flying ace in the New Lands. Those magic fishies or other airborne threats could ground Garuda and even other Wyverns. But Fighti would take on the skies with her class and level.
The only thing was…
 
——
 
Every day in the New Lands was another hazard. This time, they were jumped in the evening, with the sun shining blood red, and Nailren thought it was settled. They’d seen the duo of Wyverns rising up at them fast, but Coldcream had gone for altitude, and they’d dropped Fighti. He watched her dive, and again, the Skyshadow appeared and began firing from well outside the Wyverns’ range.
Three seconds of engagement. One to turn, and one more to roar towards them before she tele-jumped, appeared overhead, and Coldcream actually managed to slow so she could slam into Nailren.
“Ow. Nice w—”
“Chickenruler, fly, fly faster!”
The screaming [Fighter Pilot] clung to Nailren as Chickenruler twisted.
“What, why?”
“They’re not dead!”
“What? But you shot—”
“Yeah, fly faster!”
Two shrieking Wyverns were rising behind them. Nailren twisted around, and Fightipilota’s eyes were wide as she stared at the smoking craters and blood on their scales. One was bright orange, the other grey, and they were hurt, maybe badly, but—
“You shot them, though.”
“Yeah.”
“With your pew-pew things.”
“Autocannons, three full seconds.”
“…You blew apart plate mail in testing. Blew apart, not even made holes in.”
“Yep.”
Coldcream and Chickenruler stared back a second, then the Frost Wyvern began flapping as fast as he could. Fightipilota gulped.
“Okay, Nailren? You can let go now. I’ll just get to my seat. You working on that map?”
“Yep.”
Nailren circled this area three times and wrote ‘death zone’ on it. Fightipilota nodded.
“Damn Wyverns. First one keeps flirting with my Chieftain, now we get two more. Ours is a nice guy, though. Pretty stupid, but once you get to know him, hey, he’s not bad. I wish she’d give him a chance.”
“…What?”
“I know, ‘what is she thinking’? She doesn’t like other Goblins either, but you hear about kingdoms marrying their [Princes] and stuff for armies and money. We get more Wyverns? I don’t think she’s doing better. She’s selfish, that’s what I’m saying.”
“I see.”
“Yup. They still following us?”
“…Yep.”
“Hey, Chickenruler? Fly faster.”
 
——
 
Mostly, though, they just…travelled the New Lands. At a speed no one could match and from a vantage point that made Nailren worry. So much so that Spoony noticed. He confessed his worries to her as they were flying, surveilling the lands below and noting it all down on his map.
“It’s too easy, Spoony. I worry that if you can just fly across the New Lands—what is there to explore?”
These were the selfish anxieties of someone who wanted this adventure not to end. However, Nailren needn’t have worried; if he was amazed by the Goblins’ perspective, they envied his.
 
——
 
“Hey, what that?”
“Dunno. Looks cool.”
“Damn, you think we can land?”
“Nope. Remember your ABCs.”
“Always Be Checking With the Chieftain To Do Anything You Dumb Idiots?”
“Yep.”
That was the, ah, flow of most conversations on Wyvernback whenever Fighti or Chickenruler found something interesting. And there was tons of interesting stuff! It was just…
They knew that Rags was right, here. There were enough dangers in the air to avoid landing and making targets out of themselves. So if they saw something fascinating—the great rift in the earth, a mysteriously undestroyed tower, the bones of some huge sea-creature—their orders were to mark it down or just pass it by and never go near it.
This was on the basis that ‘cool things had trouble around them’, a Kevin way of saying something adventurers and Goblins were well aware of. Novelty was trouble.
The one tiny, black goat amidst a pack of Eater Goats? Death.
The lone Wyvern who wasn’t the same color as the rest? Death.
The one adventurer who didn’t run, drew a sword, and waited for your entire tribe at the choke point? Death.
But, damnit, some things were worth dying for! Nailren had quickly picked up on Fighti and Chickenruler’s orders after getting used to the air, and he was quite complimentary of Rags’ orders.
“It’s a sensible precaution, even with Fighti’s trump card.”
“Sensible. What, you some [Shaman]?”
“Technically, I suppose? I had training. When are you allowed to land?”
Chickenruler counted on his fingers.
“Food and rest. Meeting a new group to trade with—but we have to be careful who. And emergencies to hide and stuff. Or if we got a job from Pink Lady.”
Nailren’s eyes flickered.
“Magnolia Reinhart gives you work?”
Fighti glared at Chickenruler, who hunched his shoulders.
“Just to deliver stuff and check on groups. We see lots of ones that didn’t make it.”
The forerunners of the New Lands. Nailren sombered, but then he thought as they skimmed over what looked like a vast beach, minus the water. So a desert, but with a lot more stuff in it.
“Well, you landed for Woll’s Waystation. You could land and talk to other groups you meet.”
“Nah. What they got to trade? And it’s too dangerous with two Goblins. What if they notice us? We not that good at pretending, especially with Drakes.”
“Fair enough. But what about two Goblins and a Gnoll?”
The two Goblins hesitated. Nailren’s grin demonstrated that like a good [Shaman], he really did know how to interpret orders. So the flying team made a few more unauthorized pit stops on their journey.
Whenever they saw a likely group, they would dive, wave, and if they got waves back, they’d land. It was…fascinating. They were headed deep into the New Lands; there weren’t that many groups out this far already, and they had to stay low so they didn’t have a huge view of the landscape.
But the groups they did meet?
Interesting. Heartbreaking. Or just—
Tough.
 
——
 
You had to be tough to come this far. Getting this deep into the New Lands meant you hadn’t known about the bad soil. You’d walked into the mana drain trap. And yet—you’d kept going.
For whatever reason, you’d stuck it out and gotten this far. It didn’t mean you were doing well or were happy. But there was a toughness in the Humans who were posted up against a broken wall of some kind. They were clearly using it as shelter; blocks of coral wood had been made into a second and third wall and mud used as mortar. A tarp had been draped over the space for a home; it was a base, clearly.
They did not appear happy. However, they were alert. Armed well enough; Fighti casually eyed the heavy armor on the team of warriors who’d come out to greet them. However, she was letting Nailren speak.
He was surprisingly good at it. Fighti had no idea how to speak to other species or those from different places. She’d probably say, ‘yo, you not gonna kill us?’ to all of them. But Nailren scrutinized clothing, read into accents, and just…seemed to know the world.
For instance, his first instinct was to swing himself off the saddle, raise one paw, and shout.
“Captain Nailren of the Pride of Kelia! Silver-ranker! We’re cartographying the region and travelling to Nombernaught! May we speak? Are you Terandrian, Balerosian, or Izril’s north?”
His bark made the Humans glance at each other, and a huge, heavyset man half-turned to someone in the rear, then shouted back.
“We’re Izrilian! One second!”
After some murmuring, he walked forwards with a palpably upset-looking Human woman. She held out a hand and greeted Nailren and Fighti, who’d slid out of her turret seat. They seemed friendly, and she had her Skill ready; Chickenruler stayed with Coldcream.
“How do you do? I am Lady Haviet of House Meliope. I am, ah, the leader of this expedition into the New Lands. Did you—did you fly in? Are the Walled Cities coming?”
Her face seemed to betray hope and fear, and when Nailren assured her this was an independent city, her face fell.
“Oh, I see. Would you, ah, take passengers?”
It was a question that threw Fighti and Chickenruler. Fighti scratched her head.
“To where?”
“Anywhere. We have been here for months and—with due respect to the good Captain Walt here, it has been dire.”
The [Lady] was not keen on being here. And the man, who turned out to be another Silver-ranker, scratched at his visibly rusted armor.
“We lost what little magic we had. Could be worse, but we’ve teamed up with other northern teams who got out this far. We’re sort of scattered around this area. You seen ‘em?”
“Not from where we flew in from, but we have been low to the ground. I’m afraid our destination is Nombernaught, Lady Meliope, and my co-fliers have a mandate not to allow anyone to fly with them.”
“What if I were to make a request? I am from a noble house.”
Fighti hesitated as the [Lady] turned to her, but the Captain coughed.
“Lady Haviet, we can’t identify this group, and begging your pardon, you’d be at the mercy of any accidents or—unpleasantness if it were to occur.”
He didn’t exactly lower his voice, but Fighti just nodded. That was sensible. Lady Haviet’s voice rose.
“I’d take being kidnapped if it meant some hot tea and a bed without bugs in it! I—oh, very well. Please, make the request, and if you should fly back, I will pay—generously—for transport. Do forgive me. I must retire.”
She walked unsteadily back to their camp, and Nailren turned to the man, Walt.
“Has it been rough?”
The Human scratched at a scruffy beard, shrugging awkwardly.
“What, the lack of magic? The fact nothing grows here? The damn unusual creatures? I’ve seen worse. Lady Haviet, well, she brought a lotta magic and expected it to be easier than how it was. I’ll say this for her: she told us to keep going. Her house put too much gold into this to just turn it around. Sorry, Captain Walt of Ensoldier Shields. Silver-rank like yourself. I remember the Pride. Damn, that’s from a while back. Egliv’s still kicking around in Alais’ party. How the hell did you come here?”
Another handshake, and Nailren grinned at Walt. He vaguely remembered the man. Only from the Creler attack at the Bloodfields, nothing else. Nailren nodded at Lady Haviet.
“It’s a long story, Captain Walt. These are friends of mine, and I’m actually no longer adventuring; I’m just an [Explorer] now. So you’re on guard duty?”
Walt shrugged, tired.
“It pays well, and you know how it is. Took us a while to get ourselves on our feet, and this…well, it’s not the worst we’ve been through. Poor Lady Haviet’s had it hardest. I hope you have something to trade; it’d perk her up.”
“Strange she stayed, though. She doesn’t trust you to continue exploring without her?”
Nailren took on an informal tone with Walt, which the man reciprocated. Fighti didn’t know what to do until Nailren nudged her and glanced at the Chest of Holding. When she brought out one of the crummy sandwiches, he almost grabbed it.
“Wait, d’you want to trade? We’ve got plenty of shit. I mean, valuable samples.”
“Sure. We can’t sell much—but you want some oil for that armor?”
He did indeed, and it was actually the oil that was bought, not the food. Lady Haviet insisted on toddling back out to oversee what they sold—a mix of carcasses of dead animals, none of which Fighti had ever seen before, and things like seashells and even a bit of ore.
“Mostly, we’ve been just scouting. We’d have tried to settle a valuable spot or try one of the dungeons, but after seeing what happened at the tower…Lady Haviet understands our capabilities. She had to stay to oversee any trades or such we made in her family’s name. It’s why she’s so upset; the rest of her family jumped ship after two weeks.”
Walt was scrubbing at his helmet with a brush and applying oil. Nailren raised his brows.
“Wait, there were more?”
Walt lowered his voice as the rest of his team made faces.
“Sure were. Her husband, their eldest son and daughter, two cousins—they had a huge argument. Ended up with them drawing lots. Guess who got the short straw?”
Fighti wasn’t that surprised, but it impressed Nailren, who whistled.
“Not even her husband or son staying?”
“Nope.”
One glance from one of Walt’s teammates told Fighti that meant some big drama, even if she didn’t get Human dynamics completely. Walt shoved his helmet back on his head.
“She’s kept up, which is more’n I can say for a lot of team leaders. Like I said, it’s mostly just inconvenience. Remember Alais? She’s another security leader—that’s what we’re calling ourselves since this isn’t an adventure—whom we’ve teamed up with. Egliv’s on her team, now. She can barely cast spark spells. She had to kill a damn shark-thing with Tier 1 magic. They’d love to trade if you had time.”
Alais had killed a Landshark with a Tier 1 spell? That was impressive. Nailren’s brows rose, and he hesitated, but regretfully jerked his thumb at Fighti and Chickenruler.
“We have to be in the air momentarily. But you wouldn’t happen to have any tips to share, would you? Places of interest? I have some news about potential gardening here. I call them ‘Sea Gardens’. Oh, and someone’s figured out how to make the salted ground fertile!”
Walt was interested more in the Sea Gardens than the magic ritual. He spat on the ground.
“We’re not doing any agriculture. We keep moving and hunting. And we’ve food enough, really. We have way too much flour that’s not gone bad…but some greens would be nice. I’ll have to see what we can share.”
Out came Lady Haviet a third time. The notion of a salad cheered her up, and she asked forlornly.
“Do you think there would be any—any tea in these Sea Gardens I might acquire?”
Nailren produced the tea bag that Woll had given him, and Haviet nearly traded half their supplies for it. When he handed it over to her for free, she clutched it to her chest with actual tears in her eyes.
“Oh, thank you so much, Adventurer Nailren! We brought enough flour and dried goods, but tea—! Walt, tell them everything we’ve seen. Within reason.”
That meant there was something valuable Walt was holding onto, but he was open enough about local landmarks. He did raise one finger.
“Right, did you see that big tower that’s not broken down over that way? About four day’s ride for us.”
Fighti had, multiple times. Nailren’s eyes lit up.
“It was beautiful. Actual architecture not lost to time, despite the weathering. Did you approach it?”
Walt’s face was grim.
“We got close enough to find another group fleeing it. Bunch of idiots. I mean, it was two Gold-rank teams. Drakes. They tried the tower, but something’s guarding it. They said it was a Golem, three times as large as any regular man. Minced both teams so fast only the ones who’d been spread up even had time to run.”
Fighti swallowed, grateful they hadn’t landed. Nailren bit his tongue.
“Did they approach stealthily? Did they aggravate it?”
Walt shook his head.
“They went with…damn, I think it was Alais’ group. Hey, where did the Golem team go? Sorry, we’ve had to join up with other groups, and—I think they were trying to sneak up on it with [Rogues]. Didn’t work. By the sounds of it, both Gold-rank groups got taken out so fast they never had a chance. That’s a Named-rank threat, so as far as we were concerned, we’re staying away. I’ve seen Gold-rank threats. We can’t do that.”
Nailren marked the tower on his map.
“Good to know. Thank you. And if we swing back this way, what do you most badly need?”
Walt grimaced.
“Greens? Salt, oil—anything to keep our armor in good condition. If you had mana potions that didn’t vanish overnight, we’d take that. Oh, and tea.”
It was funny. Food was low on his list. Apparently, the Haviet family owned wheat fields, so that accounted for their generous supplies, but Fighti decided that the Silver-rank team was just more capable than a lot she’d met. None of them seemed like dedicated [Archers], but most had a bow ready, and one even took a pot-shot at a rabbit and got it. They brought over the animal.
“Souvenir.”
The rabbit had three eyes, two on either side of its head and one in the center of its forehead. Walt grimaced.
“We’re pretty sure the third eye’s magical. They can see almost anything coming. Doesn’t mean they can dodge, though. Correy’s got [Stealth Arrow].”
“Nice. Wait, this is for us?”
“Yep. You’ve been generous, and well, us Silver-rankers from Liscor have to do things for each other.”
It was just a small gesture, but it was the kind of thing Fighti liked so much she gave Walt another bag of sugar. Then they got on their Wyvern and took off.
 
——
 
Not every group was doing as well as that one, of course. Fighti had been arguing with Chickenruler. He wanted to give the rabbit minus the eye to Coldcream as a snack. She thought it’d do very well in a frying pan with some spices. Nailren had been caught in the middle as the tie-breaking vote when they nearly ran into two Garuda.
“Wait! Wait! We’re friendly! Are you from Fissival? Pallass? We’re down here!”
They darted down as Fighti swung her Thunderbow at them, and she blinked. Nailren whistled, then swore under his breath.
“Tribes. That’s nearly three hundred!”
One of the largest expeditions Fighti had seen so far was camped out in the middle of the grasslands, and they were not doing well. The Drake leader approached with a Dullahan, a Gnoll, and one of the Garudas in tow, and Fighti realized who they had to be.
“Pallass’ 1st Colonial Expedition. What city are you? I, ah, request in the name of the Walled Cities any supplies you can give—trade with us for. Please.”
They were hungry. It didn’t always look like being skin and bones; you actually got a fat belly when you were really starving. Right before you died. They weren’t there yet, but one glance around had Fighti conferring with Chickenruler about how much they could give. They were supposed to bring it to Nombernaught…
Then Fighti glanced over the Wyvern’s back, since she wasn’t sure if this group was dangerous, despite seeming to be from the City of Inventions. She stared down and saw a little Drake standing behind the wary adults. It was a girl who might have been seven or something, sucking on a claw. Fighti stared at the child.
 
——
 
The tri-eye rabbit was first to go, then most of their food. Nailren drew aside one of the Gnolls as the rest of the food was parcelled out—not all of it was being eaten at once. It would have to be rationed.
“Hey, friend. What is going on here? Who brings children on an expedition?”
This was a Pallassian Gnoll named Girfer. He looked unprepared for this; his fur was a mess, and while he had a sleek bow, Nailren didn’t believe he was as good a shot as the weary Silver-rankers.
“I—I didn’t think it was a good idea! Listen, uh, brother. It was some [Senator]’s idea.”
Nailren stared as Girfer gestured lamely.
“You set up a colony, you need kids, right?”
“Not in the first wave! How many have you lost?”
Girfer didn’t want to say. He was sniffing the air, glancing at the cooking fires, and whined.
“We’re not the only group who brought kids! And we did better than most; our alchemical stuff ran out, but we had crossbows, and the [Soldiers] with us can fight. Listen…do you take passengers? Which city is this? Because we’re Pallass—”
“You’re not going to get those two to do anything for the City of Inventions.”
Nailren interrupted Girfer brusquely. The Gnoll bristled.
“We’re a Walled City! And we have [Mages] who can cast [Message]! If they don’t help us—”
“Your city attacked theirs in a war not too long ago. You’re lucky they don’t strafe the camp.”
Nailren hated Drake mentality sometimes, and Walled Cities had it worst. Seeing Girfer’s slack-jawed expression and then the worry come over his face was just a sign that Walled Cities’ citizens never thought about the enemies they made. Or rather, that they’d ever suffer the consequences of their actions.
He didn’t like this one bit. Nor, clearly, did Fighti or Chickenruler. Chickenruler had actually gotten off his Wyvern’s back—a risky move this time. Nailren strode back over. He was worried Pallass might be stupid enough to try and commandeer Coldcream. However, Fighti was having a word with the children, who were begging for more food.
A Goblin’s word. She was showing the little Drake girl something.
“Like this, like this. Stab, then run. You is slow, so you get one stab. Don’t try on monsters. Sneak, sneak, stab. Right here or here. This is where they bleed to death. Practice on rabbits. Anyone can sneak up on a rabbit if they try hard enough.”
She had a grim expression on her face as the Drake girl stared at the dagger and held it awkwardly, in a way that made Nailren’s skin crawl under his fur.
It was how he’d teach someone to hold a dagger if he wanted to show them how to assassinate someone. A reverse grip, not like how a knife-fighter would hold it with a saber grip.
Fighti kept giving lessons to the kids until someone objected.
“Listen, Miss Flier. The children are not to be taught such lessons! They are safe with us!”
Fighti glowered at an objecting Dullahan woman.
“They’re safe until they’re not.”
“We would rather die than let any of them come to harm! As long as any one of us is here, they won’t need to do anything so violent!”
The Dullahan woman was ushering the children back, and Fighti’s voice was dark.
“Oh yeah? When you’re all dead, will they have a chance or none at all?”
The Dullahan woman’s head rotated around a hundred and eighty degrees on her shoulders, and she gave Fighti a look of mingled horror and fear. Nailren just studied the little Drake girl clutching her belt-knife.
Scales don’t look that baggy. The green’s faded—lack of nutrition? She’s six. How much does starving stunt your growth? If they can find food, she’d be fine. But there’s just too many mouths to feed here. Their clothing was decent enough; he realized they had a lot of non-combat classes here. [Tailors] and [Bakers]—the idiots had come with everything they needed for a colony.
But they hadn’t come ready for the wilds. What Nailren was curious about was…how was Pallass’ colony still alive?
Numbers did not guarantee survival. Especially without magical weapons; Pallass’ edge would have rapidly vanished, and losing people to Landshark attacks or other monsters was a threat. In his talks with other members of the colony, Nailren realized they’d faced both bandits and monsters.
Something was keeping them alive. Perhaps the fact they had enough people who could fight? But Nailren suspected good leadership amidst their fighters, or a higher-level individual.
He found two.
The first was an [Alchemist], a Garuda missing half his feathers, who was actually working with the tri-eye rabbit, or rather, its head. He was carefully extracting the eye with a knife and popped it into a flask bubbling over a fire on a corroded metal stand.
The flask was not clean, nor did the harried [Alchemist] seem like he had much to work with. He mashed the eye fast, added water, some dried yellow beetles, what smelled like mint, and two cups of wine. Then he began to strain the mixture out.
“It’s going to last two days once I decant this. Drink half a cup per dose and give it to [Scouts] and [Sentries].”
“Listen, Vebi, if it makes us shit our trousers again—”
A worried Drake accepted the piping hot ‘potion’ as Vebi snapped.
“If it does, you’ll see trouble coming while it happens! Damn—hey, you, you’re with the fliers, right? Do you have any other magical monster parts? I need it. We’ll trade you for it.”
He sprang up and hopped over since he could no longer fly, and Nailren raised his brows.
“You’re an [Alchemist]? How do your potions work without magic?”
Vebi gave him a crazy-eyed stare.
“Badly, and who said there’s no magic? That All-Seeing Rabbit has plenty! There’s magic here; no one wants to believe it, but the animals are generating enough or they can resist whatever’s getting us. It decays the instant they’re dead, though. But I’ve managed to make some potions. Vebi, [Alchemist], I guess, since I left my apprenticeship. What do you have?”
He tore through the things Fighti and Chickenruler had bought from Walt and grabbed everything useful. Neither Goblin stopped Vebi, but Nailren took careful notes of what the [Alchemist] had identified as magical. He was hobbling over to his workstand to see what still had magic in it.
“Sometimes, the potions work even without much magic; it’s not a requirement. It just requires thinking. Not reading damn recipe books and panicking when you can’t perfectly make something!”
He shouted, and that seemed to be aimed at a dozen other [Alchemists] who were standing around, armed with bows or making things out of grass. Unwilling to do what Vebi was doing—which Nailren was pretty sure was heresy by alchemist standards. He squatted down next to the Garuda’s fire.
“You lost your feathers in an accident?”
Vebi grunted.
“Too slow to dodge. I was being a coward at first, but we kept losing people when the monsters attacked or…when someone began having hallucinations after eating the rabbit eye, I knew I had to try something! My potions make you dump whatever you’re eating, but they work. The eye, even the beetles, they all have magic. That potion lets you see further and notice threats. This one, made of those damn leech things? Lets you get something out of blood. Monster blood, animal. Fills you up better than a meal.”
Even by Goblin standards, a blood meal sounded rough. But Nailren just hmmed.
“Who taught you alchemy in Pallass?”
Vebi grinned crookedly.
“None other than Xif himself. But I quit my apprenticeship because I was told I’d have seniors who’d teach me. Fat lot of good they’re doing. I wish I’d paid more attention to Saliss of Lights. This is the kind of alchemy I think he’d do. Madhat stuff. I’ve been trying to remember everything he said whenever he came by to harass Master Xif.”
“Got any recipes we can take back?”
Vebi shrugged.
“Sure. Mash or grind anything magical. Then it’s one of four herbs I have; water, spirits, or wine; and salt, sugar, or charcoal. Mix and match and hope you don’t blow your stand up or someone’s stomach. Argh, I have a book over here with the recipes that work, but I wouldn’t sell any of this!”
Yet he was doing alchemy, and from the way people took his potions, they knew the potions worked. Nailren jerked his head at the rest of the camp.
“You seem like you’re fighting to keep this colony alive, Vebi. How’re the soldiers doing? Who else is holding it together?”
The Garuda grunted.
“The soldiers? You mean retired veterans, low-level idiots, or members of the Watch? They didn’t send anyone high-level with us. A few are decent and levelling. But they would have been all chewed up and eaten by that first shark raid.”
“What kept them from all getting eaten?”
Vebi glanced up as he decanted a second potion into a bottle.
“At first? It was the Wings of Pallass. Gold-rank team. They were doing flybys for everyone in the region. But they stopped—I think they ran into trouble in the air.”
Given the threats up there, Nailren wasn’t surprised. He listened as Vebi described the fliers running scouting missions to find food and even killing animals.
“They stuck around as long as they could, but they had to send some of their teammates off due to injury and because of how much they were losing. Our leadership took them for granted, but it got us mostly here in one piece. As for how we’re still alive? I’d take some credit, but most of it?”
His head jerked over to a lonely figure sitting at the edge of camp.
“They’d tell you it’s Pallassian grit. I say it’s our highest-level non-combat civilian. That’s him over there. The name’s Lorent.”
 
——
 
Lorent the [Sharpener] was working on a sword with a whetstone and other pieces of his trade. And he looked thinner, but the sword he was working on seemed sharper. As if he’d reduced his own body in exchange for the tools he made.
Fighti was a Redfang, and when she saw the edge he put on the blade, she whistled.
“That not going to last. That’s a three-cut blade, then it’ll chip or dull.”
It was too sharp, if that made sense. The sharper an edge you put on a sword, the thinner it had to be, obviously. Too sharp and it’d dull fast. A good sword was actually, at times, semi-blunted so it would cut reliably for a long while.
However, this sword…Lorent just glanced up at her as he replied.
“[Ten Cut Edge]. Then it dulls. Ten will do. Nothing less will cut through shark hide and bone.”
He lifted the sword up and put it on a rack where four more were waiting. Then he went back to sharpening something else. An arrowhead.
Now, Fighti understood how they were alive. She picked up the sword.
“Can I try it on something?”
Lorent gazed up, eyed her, then glanced at her Wyvern and the food she’d brought.
“Once.”
She searched around for a target, then saw some coral wood that had been brought out for fuel. Fighti tried a slash vertically through the wood. Not hard; she didn’t want to break the blade. The sword went halfway through the block and stopped. She blinked, and then she had to lever it out of the wood.
That was way too easy. Rather unnerved, she put the sword back on the rack. Lorent instantly reached over and did something.
She realized there was a weird little item hanging on each sword. A row of beads on a bit of string. He swivelled one around, and she saw it was ten beads white, one black.
“Those idiots swing the sword too many times then chip it. We can’t waste the metal.”
“But they use your sharpened blades?”
The Dullahan’s face was flat, but not emotionless.
“My oversharpened blades. I know my work. They need them. Regular weapons? [Rustless Edge], [Superior Balance], [Quickdraw Coat]. [Three-Coat Sharpening]. These are for high-level monsters. You brought food, thank you. Do you need me to sharpen anything?”
Fighti shook her head; she carried the crossbow as a sidearm, and Chickenruler was just a flier. But Nailren produced his sword and let Lorent work on it and several of his arrows.
“Are you confident in this group’s success?”
“I must be. We are levelling and searching for the right spot to settle.”
“I think I’ve heard of you from Pallass, Lorent. Do you remember The Wandering Inn?”
For a second, the Dullahan’s fingers stopped moving the blade over the whetstone. He glanced up, and his impassive face shifted slightly.
“Yes. Erin Solstice. Someone came to us and said she fought a war at sea. Pallass’ [Mages] found the broadcast. She stabbed a [Prince] through the back, armor and all, with a kitchen knife. I remember that knife; it was forged so well. So beautifully with only a single flaw. It was a crime not to make it as good as could be. I only had to maintain it twice.”
He stared ahead, then handed Nailren’s sword back to the Gnoll.
“I saw that. And I realized that was why I levelled that night. They said he was an important [Prince]. And that she helped a Goblin Lord; a monster. These things may be true.”
The [Sharpener]’s eyes gleamed for one second, and he stared at something else.
“…But that was a beautiful knife. An edge like no other. If I could put such an edge on perfect metal—it must all be sharper. Blades that can do what magic cannot.”
He got back to work and, after a moment, glanced up at them.
“I’ll sharpen more things if you can bring back food. Do you need anything else?”
They did not. Nailren got up and walked back, and Fighti poked him.
“He, uh, looks a bit crazy.”
Nailren nodded.
“They need a bit of crazy right now. Better to let him work and hope he doesn’t lose himself in his class. But this is counterlevelling. We should go before they begin to demand things of us.”
 
——
 
Leaving the Pallassian group was hard on multiple levels. They did indeed try to pull rank on the ‘lesser Drake city’, which worked not at all, but the real problem was when they asked if some of the children could be transported. Even to Nombernaught.
That put Fighti and Chickenruler in a bind, and the two argued; not only was an air-trip dangerous, but they were setting a precedent, and they could not play passenger delivery across the New Lands. Nailren was not in favor of accepting.
“If you do this, you’ll make yourself a target.”
He got a glare from Fighti and folded his arms.
“Children are one thing, but you might run into more spiders in the sky or worse, and they’ll panic, and you don’t know how to handle them. If you let children, what about Lady Haviet? Where do you make a distinction? They’re safe enough here.”
In the end, the children themselves decided the matter. When they heard they might have to leave the expedition, half hid or clung to adults. They didn’t want to go.
It left a sour taste in Fighti’s mouth for a long time afterwards. It was too familiar to a Goblin—only, this wasn’t a good tribe. Goblin children were always in danger, but a good tribe at least gave them a chance. Or didn’t have many to begin with, like the Redfangs.
That left her less keen to meet with other groups, and thus, it was almost a relief when the next group they flew over made it clear they didn’t want company.
 
——
 
“Whoa!”
Fighti recoiled as something shot past her face. At height, no less! She and Nailren had just been speculating what the burnt-out campsite they’d spotted from above meant. Attack? Fire gone wrong? Or just wasteful campers?
Was this group from that campsite or just another one? She stared down, and a group of eighteen Humans were milling about. One had thrown something at them!
“Evasive! That’s a throwing Skill!”
Nailren snapped, and Coldcream threw out one wing and shot right. Chickenruler spat curses.
“Those aspat idiots nearly hit us! Coldcream, poop on them!”
“Just fly on, Chickenruler! That was some throw!”
It had to have gone nearly two hundred feet, and it’d been fast. What was it? Fighti stared down and saw someone had a…spear? It seemed crude, but the [Thrower] was in the center of a circle, aiming, pointing back at them…Fighti put her finger on the trigger of her Thunderbow. But after a second, the arm lowered, and she relaxed. Then the figures began waving up at her.
Mistake? Chickenruler was urging Coldcream onwards, and Fighti glanced at Nailren. He put a paw to his ear.
[Remote Eavesdropping]. [Ignore Ambient Sound]…
The [Clandestine Chieftain] still couldn’t hear from that far away, not with the wind against him and at such a remove. However, someone did have the ability to dive down and listen.
Spoony. He didn’t realize the ghost was gone until the ouija board began to vibrate. Then Nailren realized she was transcribing the conversation.
 
——
 
“Stop! Stop, you idiots! It’s not a wild one! There are people on there!”
Too late. Zamie’s arm had gone back, and the [Javelin Thrower] hurled one of the crude spears skywards. It almost hit the…flying lizard. Everyone saw it roll left, and then they were arguing.
“Don’t throw anything! We have to get their attention!”
“There’s weird Dragon-people on there. Do you see that?”
“Don’t throw! Don’t—hey! We’re down here! Help! Please!”
After a second, everyone began waving and shouting, but it was too late. The two scaly-people and the furry one were flying away. It wasn’t Zamie’s fault; he’d thought it was another wild monster.
But it drove Londie to tears. He could barely walk, and Mecody had to come back after running for half a mile, trying to get the Dragon-thing to land, to help him up. Londie sat, not from just despair, exhaustion, or hunger, though these things were all weighing on them.
Lost. Trapped in this other world or place, like the rest of the Spirited Generation. But it wasn’t uninhabited. They’d just lost their best and only chance of help, though. And they needed help.
Even if they had these…classes and levels. What good was one of the world’s best javelin throwers or an ultramarathoner out here?
No…Mecody might make it if he took off running. But he wouldn’t. Londie…he kept feeling at his side, at an intake port on the side of his stomach and for medication that was rapidly running out.
Earthers, newly arrived, eighteen of them. Among them, a [Javelin Thrower], a [Marathoner]…and a [Diabetic].
But it wasn’t a story the two Goblins and Gnoll knew. They kept flying.
 
——
 
You didn’t stop running into people even when you went deeper into the New Lands. Not all had come from the west; many had landed on other parts of the coast, but those tended to be non-Izrilians. But there was a trend for who was going to make it and who was not.
A lot of Chandrarians occupied the south to southwest of the New Lands. Lots of kingdoms shouting up at Fighti to land or offering her servitude for her services to King This or Exalted Queen That.
She didn’t care for them exactly. Some of the forces who’d landed were no expeditions, either, but miniature armies complete with [Soldiers] and more. She avoided those groups; not worth tangling with nations.
However, you got to sensing trends in survivability. Adaptive groups always seemed to have something they’d found out about the New Lands; the ones who gave Fighti a doomed feeling were just pushing on ahead, wearing themselves down to find the ‘treasure’ she doubted existed here. At least in such terms.
You either found something useful or you yourself were hardy enough to survive. Or both.
“This is a Sandleech. That’s what we call it. Lives in the sand. Eats blood. Regenerates. Like a Hydra.”
“Um…no. Not like a Hydra. And it’s edible?”
“Sure is.”
A smiling young woman with a nose so badly broken it was visibly twisted left sliced a huge piece out of the Sandleech, which was brown, pulsating, and barely bled. She flipped it into a pot, and it began to burn.
“Sorry, you have to char it up until it’s black. Might get sick otherwise. Just wait until it’s black on all sides and inside.”
She poked through the Sandleech to ventilate it, and the resulting mess was so black and overdone that Fighti assumed anything nasty in it was well and truly cooked. And it probably tasted better than the—
Here was the thing. She was a Goblin. She ate nasty foods, but she was also a Redfang and used to a bit of standards, since they hunted.
The Sandleech was bad food. Even by Goblin standards. The oozing, nasty thing was already clotting its wounds and curled around its prey—one of the leech-sucker things, which was all-but dead and being drained of fluids.
“So you feed it on other monsters?”
“Whatever we find, Miss. We think it’s great for surviving long-term. How about half of one for a big bag of salt? It doesn’t matter which side you slice, it’ll regenerate. Or our Landshrimps?”
Those Fighti was familiar with; the mobile Landshrimps were scavengers that ate bugs and bits of stuff too. There was a huge cage of them dangling from one of the caravans in….
Frontier Caravan #3. She recognized that naming convention, and Fighti suspected that none of them were going to be normal. This ‘Lord Calidus’ had made a pretty interesting caravan here.
It was mostly young men and women, all Human, and all pretty cheerful. Not crazy cheerful like the nut-people of Caravan #4, but just…upbeat.
“How’d you get out this far?”
“Oh, you know, Miss. Jogged. We were keen on getting out here. Making a fortune. We’ve been hunting and whatnot. Still not sure how you gut animals properly. Is that how you skin stuff? We can cut things up, but that’s fascinating.”
Nailren was demonstrating proper gutting technique to a pair of young men who’d nailed a Corusdeer. Two neat holes in its head showed Fighti they had good archery Skills. Not a lot of common sense.
“So you’re okay for food?”
They wanted salt and other basics like oil, but food was fine. The young woman beamed.
“Sure are. We fish, hunt, ‘n so on! Fishing was hard, but we got the knack. Nice hole over here too.”
They had a little outpost near a ravine of rocks that were infested with the Landshrimps and a pond. Pretty idyllic; the young woman jogged over to the pond, then pointed.
“There’s these lovely fish here! Have you ever seen the like?”
“Sure. Trout.”
“Wow. Trout.”
The young woman breathed as she peered at the very ordinary fish swimming around. Fighti eyed her, and the young woman hesitated.
“I mean, unless they’re common?”
“Oh, no. Just where I live. I, uh, knew a group that lived in a place where it rains all the time. They love fish.”
“Of course! Well, here, let me get you one. You can eat all you want. Even two trouts for dinner!”
She bent over the pool as the fish darted around, and Fighti glanced around for a fishing rod.
“I don’t know if we have time t—”
Splash. The young woman’s hand darted down, and she yanked two fish out of the water in a single motion. They landed, flopping, on the ground, and Fighti’s jaw dropped.
“Whoa. That’s fast!”
The young woman picked up the fish, beaming, then hesitated.
“It is? I mean, I have a Skill.”
“Right. Still very fast. Uh, thank you. I’ll trade that for some salt!”
“We can pay for the rest. Here. Is this enough?”
Two fish and fifteen gold coins appeared for the medium-sized bag of salt that Fighti was about to hand over. The Goblin stopped, eyed the gold, and blinked at the young woman.
“Is this a joke?”
The young woman hesitated. The two youths learning how to properly butcher a deer glanced up, and Nailren turned. He cupped his paws to his mouth and shouted.
“Fighti, stop projecting your Drake economics on other cultures! She’s from a city, you see.”
The young woman’s face had gone anxious, but she relaxed as Fighti turned to Nailren and threw a fish head at him. Then she faced the young woman again.
“That guy, he’s always so judgey. Fine. I think you’re overpaying…why don’t I take three gold coins, eh? It’s pricey, but we’re not that mean.”
“Oh, of course. Three gold coins. How much d’you think the salt would be worth in a regular city?”
“Uh…one gold coin if it was low stock?”
“How many fish per gold coin?”
“…Sixty?”
“Sixty? But you can survive without salt, not fish!”
“That’s true, but—you know what? That’s a good point. I like your logic.”
It was proper Goblin logic. The young woman asked a few more questions, and Fighti managed to vouchsafe that there were things called fishing rods that she was sure their group could improvise. They were only about thirty strong and seemed well-supplied. The young woman stood there as the two young men came over.
“Fishing rods. You know, I saw them on a ship once. Of course! I thought you just used the hooks to hit anyone you didn’t like!”
She laughed, and so did another of the young men. The third one, who had a nasty scar across his nose that made Fighti wonder if he had nasal problems, just grunted.
“Aime, don’t you think we’re taking up too much of these good people’s time?”
“What? They’re nice, Locklas, and they’re Drakes. From around the High Passes. They’re not—judgey. You’re not, are you?”
Aime turned to Fightipilota, and for a second, her eyes went round and shone with a bright, searching gaze. Fighti had the distinct impression she was being sized up and went still. Her Skill was ready to go, but whatever Aime saw—she smiled.
“We’re just out here trying to make a new start like everyone else. Thank the nice Gnoll, Locklas.”
“Hmpf. Good job. Here’s your pay.”
The young man with a scarred nose turned to Nailren and shoved some coins at him, but the Gnoll waved it away with a smile. He touched Locklas’ shoulder, or tried to; the young man recoiled fast.
“Listen. Sometimes we help each other out out here without pay, yes? We are all friends in the New Lands.”
“Friends.”
Aime murmured, and the second young man, who hadn’t spoken until now, smiled. He opened his mouth, revealing a lack of a tongue, and bared his teeth. Fighti grinned at him.
Who the heck are these people? She was just asking what this group had seen or done when there was a whistling sound. Instantly, Locklas whirled.
“Snakes.”
Fighti turned, and the biggest damn snake she’d ever seen, with black scales and white speckled diamonds of color around its eyes, slithered out of some bushes. There were a few more whistles, a thunk—a second snake slithered halfway out of the bushes then curled up.
Someone had chopped it in half. Aime tsked.
“I thought we killed the entire nest! Watch out, Miss Fighti, Mister Nailren, they’re venomous.”
“Must be a new nest. Maybe we should raise them?”
“They’re too violent! Get back—”
Fighti and Nailren were running fast towards Coldcream, who was lashing the ground with his tail and standing up. Fighti saw more snakes appear as the rest of Caravan #3 appeared and began hacking them up. Without much fear for the striking serpents, and for good reason—as the first one slithered towards Aime, it opened its mouth, revealing two dripping fangs, and lunged.
She did a double backflip over the snake as it struck through where her midsection had been, landed, and slashed with a knife backhanded.
She took the snake’s head off in a spray of blood, and Fighti stopped and stared as Aime, tsking, kicked the still-convulsing body aside. Then she smiled at Fighti as if nothing had happened.
“Can I buy a second bag of salt for some snake meat and hide?”
 
——
 
Fightipilota sold two bags of salt and other supplies to Aime and her group and waited until they were well in the air to start screaming.
“Who were they?”
Nailren glanced down.
“[Assassins]. Did you notice they had a brand on their bodies they’d covered up or removed? Locklas had one on his hand. Aime had a circular mark on her back.”
“What about the guy without a tongue?”
“I suspect it was there.”
Fightipilota shuddered.
“I didn’t know [Assassins] had brands!”
“Regular ones in a Guild don’t. But Ranks do. I suspect those were all new [Assassins]. They get sent from Roshal and spend their childhoods learning to kill. Hence them not having much common sense around anything. Best guess? They murdered everyone else and they’re pretending to be regular colonists.”
Fightipilota’s skin crawled as she stared back at the camp. She didn’t deny they weren’t regular people, but turned to Nailren.
“How are thirty [Assassins] part of a caravan group to the New Lands?”
“You’d have to ask Lord Calidus Reinhart.”
Nailren replied calmly. Fighti shuddered as she resolved never to let Coldcream and Chickenruler land around that caravan. They hadn’t been murdered, which suggested Aime wasn’t just killing everyone her band came across, but still.
[Assassins]?
 
——
 
Aime watched the Drakes and Gnoll fly off before she rubbed at her broken nose.
“That went well. I liked them. Told you they weren’t working for Lailight Scintillation.”
Locklas uncocked his handcrossbow as several other members of Caravan #3 emerged from cover where they’d been ready to take the Wyvern down.
“They could have been there to search for us.”
“We have Lord Calidus’ promise. We’ve seen Wyverns flying; they probably were on delivery. This isn’t poisoned, anyways. See? Yum.”
She was eating salt out of the bag. Locklas jerked the bag out of her hand and gave it to Hikife, who was tongueless.
“You use it on meat. You’re too trusting, Aime. They were under some kind of concealment spell or Skill.”
“They didn’t want to report us. I used my Skill. [Sight Captors] doesn’t lie, or they’d have been so high-level we’d have all died. Cannibal?”
One of the highest-level members of their group, who were indeed Ranks meant for the Assassin’s Guild, was a Human with sharp teeth. The young man sat there, playing with his shortbow.
“[Foe Appraisal] said that if we tried it, the little Drake would have killed us all if we didn’t drop her in a moment. Leave it. If they come back, they come back. Why didn’t she want the Sandleech?”
“She said it was too nasty. Weird, right?”
Aime chewed on the blackened piece of meat. It tasted good to her—in that it was food. Kept you alive. But everything in the New Lands tasted good to her. Snakes, Landshrimp, even water.
They were free. The Ranks had been worried when they’d eliminated the rest of the caravan when they wanted to turn back—they’d been assigned as guards, but their Slave Marks had all died in the New Lands. They’d thought they were free—until Lord Calidus had revealed he had been keeping an eye on them via a Skill.
However, he’d been highly amused and claimed this was within his predictions for how their particular caravan might have ended up and cut them a deal. If they found him something worthwhile in the New Lands, he’d pretend they were ordinary caravanners and wipe their names from the Assassin’s Guild registry.
Thus far, it hadn’t been that hard, a few monsters aside. Better than the Wishing Well. Aime sat down and put her feet in the pond. You could do that and no one would beat you for weakness.
“Fishing poles. Did you know they existed?”
Cannibal and Locklas shook their heads, but Hikife nodded.
“Why didn’t you say anything?”
Everyone laughed at that. Then Locklas raised a hand.
“The Gnoll had lots of interesting advice. Like not eating all the intestines of animals unless you clean them. He also warned me to use protection if I have sex.”
“What kind of protection? A knife? There’s no Masters around, so that’s not an issue, right?”
Aime twisted around to frown at him, and Locklas sat and began chewing on some snake bones.
“Dunno. So Sandleeches aren’t valuable. Snakes aren’t that valuable. Landshrimps aren’t that valuable?”
“Not as much as some gold.”
They stared at the coins Aime jingled in her palm and looked around.
“So what’s valuable, then? Gold? Where does gold come from?”
“Merchant’s Guilds? Maybe we should dig and find gemstones. We should have had Aime ask how planting works.”
“Ha! I told you it was a good idea not to kill them! Hikife, pass the salt.”
 
——
 
They were on what Chickenruler guessed was the last two days of their trip to Nombernaught, having resumed more-or-less their regular flight path. After the Super Wyvern encounter, he’d amended his flight path permanently to avoid their territory—this was the second incident with them in those canyons.
Detouring whenever Nailren wanted to see something had taken time, but they were getting close to Nombernaught when they saw something odd.
“Hey. There’s that frozen area we talked about.”
Nailren craned his neck.
“Strange. I’d assume it was in the north, not in the middle of the New Lands. Well, more to the west coast now, unless you were off.”
Chickenruler scratched his chin.
“No, we close to Nombernaught now. Weird. It moved.”
“It didn’t move, you’re just old, Chickenruler.”
Fighti argued. She folded her arms as he glared at her.
“I remembered where that tower was, and the melty-rocks part.”
“Okay, true, the river of lava was there, not where I thought. But it can’t move.”
The ‘cold zone’ was a swirling snowstorm of weather, and the Goblins objected to it being mobile because, well, it was winter. In spring! They weren’t ignorant of places where snow never melted, but that was where it was either cold, like Cenidau or the Iron Vanguard’s lands in Baleros, or high.
“It’s supposed to be in those foothills north of even the half-Elves. So we’re either way off-course or it moved.”
Chickenruler pointed out the obvious, and Fighti scratched her head. She stared into the vortex.
“…Okay, let’s think. Maybe it’s a snowstorm. One that just…moves?”
“We know magical storms can exist. Why not magical snowstorms?”
Nailren’s reasonable question had the Goblins glancing at each other. Fighti turned to Chickenruler.
“We’re real close. What if we…?”
“No.”
“Come on! I’ve got my Skill, and it’s cold. Coldcream loves the cold. Plus, I think I see snow-creatures down there.”
True enough, at the outskirts of the huge snowstorm were animals. Corusdeer trampling around, a white bear, even a Snow Golem. The area blanketed by the snow was huge. As large as Kishkeria’s Grasslands. If it was a snowstorm, then it might take a week for someone to trek across on the ground.
Despite his complaints, Chickenruler had to admit the vortex spinning through the air was appealingly cool. Literally. And he had a thought.
“What if we got some ice? People love ice.”
“Eh…it’ll melt.”
“Not a block of ice. Then we go to Nombernaught or find colonists and give them shaved ice with honey or some jam.”
Fightipilota turned to her friend.
“Chickenruler, sometimes you have brilliant ideas. Why not?”
Nailren grinned as the two Goblins turned to him.
“If we’re cautious, I think it’s fine. Let’s enjoy some ice. Or ice cream. Think we could make that?”
“Genius!”
The trio were all set to head into the snowstorm, even just the outskirts, but for one problem: Coldcream. The Frost Wyvern balked the instant Chickenruler tried to steer him into the magical snowstorm. And, in fact, he seemed to be flapping faster. And pooping. And…heading away from the snowstorm as fast as he could.
The laughing Goblins and Gnoll heard the Frost Wyvern whimper. Chickenruler stopped tugging on the reins. Fightipilota took a hold of her Thunderbow, and Nailren began to peer into the snowstorm. They flew on for a good fourteen minutes before Fighti coughed.
“Hey, uh, Nailren?”
“If you’re going to ask whether or not I think the snowstorm is getting closer, the answer is yes.”
“…Anyone here got [Dangersense]?”
“No.”
“Not me, but Coldcream frightened.”
They stared into the snowstorm as it moved towards them despite Coldcream’s frantic flapping. Fightipilota put a hand on her seatbelt, then stopped.
“Could just be coincidence.”
“Fly south, Chickenruler? If it’s the wind…”
After five minutes of flying south, Fighti unbuckled her seatbelt.
“I have to see what it is. I can’t shoot the air.”
Nailren was peering into the storm, and his fur was starting to freeze already. It was so cold…snow and wind were whipping the trio, and he whispered.
“I think I see it. It’s…fast.”
“If it was fast, it’d catch us already.”
“Not if it’s flying in circles.”
“Oh, come on—”
Then they saw it. Just for a second, something flickered past them, and Fighti swallowed as Chickenruler jerked. Coldcream whimpered.
“That’s fast. Did you see it—”
“Yes. It stopped. It’s checking us out. It looks big enough to eat a Frost Wyvern. But perhaps it hasn’t ever seen one being ridden.”
Fightipilota was hesitating. She turned to them.
“I’m going to use my Skill. When I do…”
She peered into the storm, remembering the Wyverns.
“I’ll draw it off. Better that than opening fire, I think. Because I think it’s very fast, very big, and very death-y if it gets us.”
“You’re sure?”
She nodded slowly. There was a flicker—whatever it was circled again in the snowstorm. Did it land? Was it generating the snowstorm via its movement? The ice was coating Nailren’s fur now, and his jaw wanted to chatter, but he called out.
“How do we find you?”
“Parach—”
A roar in the storm. It felt like the very clouds shook. Nailren shouted, and Chickenruler screamed.
“Coldcream, dive!”
The Frost Wyvern was screaming as he dove, wings folded, and Nailren’s stomach dropped. He clung to the Wyvern’s back as he felt his body rising up and experienced true, animalistic fear as they fell, trying to escape—Fighti was screaming too, and Nailren saw, just for a second, his ouija board tear loose from his side. It was attached to his belt by a loop of cord, and it pulled taught as the little planchette flew around crazily, then slapped against the board. Spoony? Did she see something? He saw the little arrow pointing to a letter.
‘A.’
He waited as they dove, in that moment made of terror as the roaring beast strafed them, inspecting the trio of odd pests on the Frost Wyvern’s back, and Fighti let go. Then Nailren saw the planchette stay on ‘a’ and realized what Spoony was writing.
‘Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa—’
 
——
 
It was, perhaps, a king of the New Lands if any deserved the title. A true sovereign of ice and cold, and it could not have been made of the magic that rose the seas. It must have come from Cenidau or Baleros or some place of pure cold, drawn to this land for the reasons all were.
That it did not kill and eat the Frost Wyvern was due to its curiosity, for it was a sentient being. Or perhaps…the Frost Wyvern and riders were a casualty of happenstance. For you see, there was another group who’d been walking the New Lands, a caravan of sorts, and it was all too possible they had drawn the King of Frost’s attention.
The man had halted as the others arrayed themselves for battle. Wind and frost blew over them, so cold that some of them felt it, but they refused to flinch even as the temperatures dropped well below zero. They were waiting for their leader to move, but he just waited.
This was how it was done. He stood, rapier in hand, the other holding a wand, waiting for the beast to descend. He had to teach them that.
The Lich waited, his black eyes and white pupils fixed on the apparition he could not see with his sight, only sense by the pure ice-mana it radiated. And it recognized him, a being of death-magic. They stood there, regarding each other, and the Frost Wyvern plummeted past them.
Breaking the standoff. Both the being of frost and Az’kerash glanced to the side, and the Necromancer blinked.
A screaming Frost Wyvern, a Goblin, Gnoll, and female Human ghost were all clinging to the Frost Wyvern as it dove, trying to break its fall and keep flying away. His head turned as he watched them flash past him.
“You don’t see that every century.”
His children watched him, not understanding why he smiled. Then, the Necromancer’s eyes lifted to the master of one element. He flicked his rapier up questioningly.
“Only one of us has life left to lose.”
Did it hear his quiet voice? The storm itself seemed to rumble, and Devail’s sword aimed up, though the undead Chosen was uncertain.
“Father, where do I strike?”
“Whatever you can. Get back. It will destroy everything when we clash. Survival is enough to level. For me, victory will earn me the same.”
The two beings didn’t blink as they regarded each other. Az’kerash knew what he stood to gain or lose, but what did it win? Pride? Knowledge it was the supreme authority? But before he could make up his mind on whether to open the combat—
There was a roaring sound the likes of which he had never heard in his life. The Necromancer flinched, sword and wand aiming up—
The tyrant of frost whirled, startled by the same sound, and Az’kerash heard the noise receding. He felt something activating—
“Localized [Teleport]—but tremendous mana! No, that’s a short-ranged [Gate]—”
It was fast! Az’kerash’s [Haste]-enhanced reactions saw the being above him jerk, then take off after whatever had appeared up there. Racing, yes, racing the apparition with every appearance of fascination. Perhaps delight.
The Necromancer heard nothing as the snowstorm followed the whimsical being. After about five seconds, he thought he sensed confusion—and the storm was blowing away from his party. He turned and saw the Frost Wyvern banking. Az’kerash wiped some snow from his hair.
“Divest yourselves of snow. [Mass Invisibility]. We continue onwards.”
He wondered what that had been, but he was focused on his objectives. The Necromancer kept walking, eyes on the ground. He suspected he could dig anywhere and find what he wanted, but the question arose: if this being of ultimate frost was half as adept as he was, and Nerrhavia likewise, why were they not here with shovels?
“The quality is not the same. Deeper. Where the deepest and densest parts of the ocean bed existed. Keep spotting ruins.”
It was nostalgic, and he only wished he were alive. The man known as Perril Chandler would have loved the adventure. Az’kerash was just…
Cold.
 
——
 
Five seconds to fly. Five seconds before death caught her on frozen wings. Fighti flew. She had no confidence she could kill whatever that was.
She activated her tele-jump and then gunned the throttle. The Skyshadow Mk. 1 roared away from the blizzard, and she sensed whatever it was following her.
Five seconds. Passing slowly as could be as she listened to her heart pounding. Then—
The cold air and snow stopped racing past her cockpit. She appeared in the air, falling, and screamed.
“[Deploy Parachute]—!”
It unfolded around her, but the air was so cold the fabric froze, and she went down fast. Thankfully, there was snow below her. It cushioned her fall as she landed—hard—and lay in the snowbank the storm had brought with it.
Dazed, staring skywards, she finally saw what was creating the storm. It landed with a howl of wind, and the chill it brought froze everything around it. Snow turned to ice. The ground cracked, and Fighti held her breath as she stared at…
It’s not a Dragon. That was the one thing she could think. Close, but no Dragonlord of Ice. Even so—she felt the ground tremble as the Ruler of Frost cast around, searching for that strange object it had been racing.
It was no idiot; it was searching the snow, moving around, trying to find the odd creature it had thought might give it a fine challenge in the skies.
However, it couldn’t find the little Goblin lying in the snow. A huge, clawed foot pulled up the ground as Fightipilota lay there, not making a sound. And she realized the curiosity of this creature was going to kill her.
It was freezing. Far, far below zero, and despite her warm bomber jacket, her gloves, her boots—the frost this creature was emitting had already frozen her extremities numb.
She tried to cover her face. Curled up in a ball as she heard a roar of frustration. The beating of great wings—and then it leapt into the air and sped off, searching for its prey.
Fighti lay there, waiting for the world to warm, but the storm blew over her as it followed this being which brought its own weather to the New Lands. Snow, blowing and blowing, and Fighti began to shake uncontrollably.
Then giggle.
She was giggling when Chickenruler and Nailren finally found her. Not that either had been able to see her in the snowdrift she was buried under. It was Coldcream who’d smelled the ‘prey’ in the snow he was used to, and the two leapt down.
“—frozen! She needs help! She’s blue. Fighti, can you hear me?”
“I see it. Fly, Coldcream! Fly as fast as—!”
The frozen [Fighter Pilot] didn’t reply. But her teeth were locked together in a bared grin, and she was shaking. Giggling as Nailren tried to figure out how to warm her and realized her temperature wasn’t rising. There was ice on her skin; some kind of magical ice. She was so cold she already had frostnip.
They flew, and Fighti laughed. Because…even with a plane from the future, a monstrosity of engineering and magic, she did not rule these skies.
What a relief.
 
——
 
A crisis in the skies. Nailren held Fightipilota upright in the seat in front of him with every blanket and piece of cloth they had wrapped around her. They were flying straight for Nombernaught without slowing. They only landed once to start a fire before they realized this magical ice wasn’t melting.
The blankets were smoking and half-frozen from the ice on Fighti. The smoke came from embers that Nailren had wrapped amongst the blankets; they were the only things keeping the Goblin from freezing over.
What they needed, right now, was magical help or a [Healer], and only the Drowned Folk had that. The half-Elves would be another day or two of flying, so they sped westwards through the night and into the dawn.
Nailren was mostly silent as Chickenruler urged Coldcream onwards, using Skills as often as he could. Sometimes, he talked to the air—he was in contact with Chieftain Rags somehow. She’d noticed when Fighti failed to report in and had realized there was a problem.
Good system. But it spoke to how remote they were and how dangerous anything could be, even with Fighti’s powerful Skill. One injury out here and…
Nailren kept trying to think what they could have done better. Avoid the storm, yes, but they hadn’t realized it was following them, and at that point, the creature was too fast. Land, the moment they saw it, and wait for it to blow past—that would be standard operating procedure.
But after that? Fighti distracting the frozen creature had been the best and most pragmatic move. Sometimes, you were faced with such situations. So he focused on trying to keep Fighti awake and alive. Not that he could do much.
Fighti was turning blue. A condition that Nailren had never seen before, not having much experience with Humans or people with visible skin at low temperatures. But Spoony was very worried.
“H-U-R-R-Y-.-H-U-R-R-Y.”
“I know. Fighti? Stay with us.”
She had been giggling for a while, but now she was still. Staring at something. Nailren was grateful for any distraction as the sun rose. And who should it be but the only other force who could invade the New Lands from afar. That distant power—and they were a power—who were realizing the influence they could wield.
The Wandering Inn. He saw something flicker to his left, vanish behind the Wyvern with a squeak of a high pitched voice, then re-appear and stabilize, following them. It was a girl, of course. The one who watched over friends near and far.
“…Nanette?”
Nanette Weishart was staring around, appearing mildly acrophobic as she stared down at the ground rushing past them. She was holding onto a baseball cap on her head and she had a full uniform and jersey on. Nailren just stared at her.
“Where’s Mrsha?”
“Getting ready for school! Also, Lyonette said she shouldn’t see someone else die…is Fighti alright? Rags told us there was a problem!”
Nailren laid out the issue, and Nanette’s eyes widened.
“A monster created a permanent winter? You’re going to Nombernaught, right? I’ll let them know to expect you!”
She was gone for a while, and Nailren guessed that it might be seven o’clock by the time he saw a distant city on the horizon around emerald waves lapping against a vast, long shoreline.
“So beautiful.”
Fighti muttered something as he gazed at Nombernaught, a Drowned City on land, the first in ages. He wondered if Fighti’s Skill had recharged. Could she use her Skill to get there faster? But she could barely move, and if she crashed…
However, even here—Nanette reappeared.
“Nailren! Nailren—”
“What’s wrong?”
Her eyes were wide, and her pigtail braids were all wild. She was pointing.
“Nombernaught’s under attack! There’s thousands of giant, evil shell-monsters attacking the gates!”
He felt Fighti go still in front of him, and Chickenruler turned his head.
“What? More Sword Crabs?”
Nanette shook her head wildly.
“No…worse? Better? I don’t know! They’re called—”
 
——
 
“Push back the nautiloids! Hold the line, you worthless sealice, or I will behead the first man or woman who runs!”
The City Captain of the Drowned City stood on the ‘walls’ of the city, which were just ramshackle wooden gates made out of driftwood and with a single, besieged gate. Nombernaught had never been built with walls in mind. It had been meant to float in the sea, where attacks could come from any angle.
Defending it was hell. The City Captain, the man or woman who had to serve as defender of the city for a month, was usually tasked with making sure everything ran smoothly. Settling fights between [Captains] in the docks, maintaining security.
But also, when the city was under attack—they fought. Who would it be, today of all days, but the man who wanted this post least.
Captain Therrium Sailwinds and his crews were holding the gates themselves. The half-Eel Drowned Man had a cutlass in one hand and a wand in the other. He fired a bolt of purple magic at the first giant nautiloid attacking the gate.
Drowned Folk armed with spears and tridents were stabbing at the waving tendrils that slashed at them and tried to drag them under its shell, where the razor beak-teeth were waiting to tear them apart.
It was a huge damn nautiloid with a spiral conch shell on its back. Two watery eyes were staring outwards with malevolence as it grabbed a screaming [Sailor] up; a sword slashed through the tendrils holding the woman, and she landed.
“On your feet! Get back in line!”
Therrium’s second-in-command, the half-Starfish Drowned Woman Etaiv, was wielding two cutlasses and cut her way back towards the gates. The injured nautiloid retreated.
The problem was…it was one of at least a thousand attacking the gates, and each one was huge. Nine feet high, their shells shielding them from attack, scuttling forwards towards the city filled with magic and meat.
A full damn army of them. They fought side-by-side, dragging their prey forwards, slashing across faces with sharp sucker-lined tendrils that ripped and tore flesh and broke bones. Therrium saw the lines of skirmishing [Sailors], Nombernaught’s security force and the ship’s crews, buckling. He was cursing them.
“Hold, I said, you pathetic wastes of ship space! Nombernaught is ripe for the taking if you buckle and run! Push them back!”
They kept retreating! Therrium saw his crews holding the nautiloids back where they were stationed. But he had to admit—he’d never seen so many!
A nautiloid attack at sea was bad enough, but it’d be a dozen, two dozen at most. But then, he’d never had to protect so many people. Yet despite his reluctance to be here, he was well aware of the stakes.
Let even a dozen of these into the city and they’ll eat everyone they catch. Drowned Folk without combat classes would be ripped to shreds in a second, so Therrium roared.
“A city of the underseas is in peril and you’re running? What’s wrong with you, cowards?”
At last, someone shouting his name got through to him. Therrium turned with a snarl as he saw [Sailors] backing away from a particularly large nautiloid slashing its tendrils out like a whip. The cowards refused to even try to block—!
“Captain Therrium!”
It was one of the retired [Captains] who served as Nombernaught’s permanent security force. The Drowned Man was half-Crab, and he had blood running down his face. The man gasped.
“Captain—the [Sailors] can’t hold this line like your crew can! They’re under Level 20!”
Under Level 20…? Therrium’s Human eye bulged in his eye sockets before he remembered, well, yes. These were as close to civilians as you got. His crews were made up of the hardest, most battle-seasoned Drowned Folk [Pirates] the seas had. Compared to them…
He saw a Pufferfish Woman aiming an arrow. She spat onto the arrow, loosed it, and the big nautiloid recoiled, then withdrew into its shell. But even Glisal was cursing.
“Captain, they’re too big for my poison to kill!”
“Dead gods damn it—get me a backup crew! Prepare to fall back past the walls! Hold, I said!”
Therrium whirled and leapt off the wall as another nautiloid came for the gates. His enchanted cutlass pierced straight through the thick shell, and he stabbed deep, leaping off the spiral shell as the tendrils tried to rip him away. He landed, grunting, then slashed across the nautiloid’s face. Spun so his right side was facing the beast and fired the wand three times into its shell.
The nautiloid curled up into its shell as blue blood and smoke streamed out the opening. Therrium grabbed a rope someone had tossed down and let them haul him onto the wall again.
“[Fight, You Rats]!”
Emboldened by his personal example and his Skill, the Drowned Folk surged back on the attack—and a beam of brilliant light flashed across the nautiloids advancing on the right flank. Therrium cursed and shielded his face, but the blinded monsters had it far, far worse.
“Was that the damn Luminary? Tell him to watch where he’s aiming his magic! I don’t need blindness, I need them dead!”
He roared. As if in answer to his words, he saw a shadow spreading under a group of nautiloids to the rear. They were ‘firing’ at Nombernaught. Which meant throwing tiny little spawn at the defenders with such velocity that they knocked people off the walls.
And the small nautiloids were fast, had sharp beaks, and could lay your flesh open. One flew onto the walls where Therrium stood—but in this case, the monsters had made a mistake.
Glisal pounced on the angry little nautiloid as it landed, trying to bite anything it found. She scooped it up, netted it, and then hung the confused creature on her belt.
“I got one! That’s worth its weight in gold if you get it to a good [Beast Tamer]!”
Other nautiloid children were also being scooped up by enterprising Drowned Folk. Having a giant pet armored mollusk was not a bad deal if you raised them right. Therrium was swearing.
“Stop looting and fight, Glisal! Kill those—what the?”
The shadow spreading under the group of ‘firing’ mother nautiloids had no origin he could see. It had formed a rough, circular blob, and he watched it deepen. Then—he saw black tendrils rise from the shadow, grab the monsters who tried to scuttle out in alarm, and pull them down.
They sank into the vast shadow, and it bubbled like some liquid in an abyssal sea. Then—the shadow pool began to spit chunks of the nautiloids back up.
Therrium glanced around, and there was a voice in the speaking stone affixed to his earring.
“Captain Therrium, the north walls are holding. Shadeward Doroumata is sending more of her daughters to your location.”
“Ah…good. Hurry it up.”
Dangerous as he was, Therrium found Shadeward Doroumata unsettling. One of the most legendary spellcasters amongst the underseas was defending her city, and he saw the identical young women, the Starfish Drowned Woman’s daughters, standing on the walls, firing shade-based spells that struck through the nautiloids’ armor and sent them scurrying back.
They were winning—but Therrium saw more Drowned Folk being dragged into the maws of the nautiloids and knew the damn monsters would be getting fed one way or another. His eyes roamed the battlefield, searching for something he could use to carve through this mass. If only he could trust the regular [Sailors] to hold while he took his crew and sortied…! All the high-level crews were at sea or exploring the New Lands, damn them.
He saw a single figure holding the north gate in an open section of ground. No less than six nautiloids were dead, their huge bodies fouling up their friends trying to move past them, but the small crew holding the gates were mostly just firing arrows. Therrium saw Haley, one of the ‘Earthers’, shooting a longbow past…
“Is that the loon of a [Knight]? Lord So and So?”
He pointed, and Lord Olvos of House Lanight lifted his lance and began to ride at another nautiloid. A fool’s errand, surely—but he speared the creature through its weak underbelly as it came at him. Therrium grunted.
“That lance is twice as long as they use—and it’s barbed.”
Indeed, Lord Olvos rode away as half the lance stayed in the nautiloid, which looked to be bleeding out rapidly. He rode back to Haley, who tossed him a new lance while grabbing the old one. She was fitting a modified harpoon onto the end.
Clever. Etaiv had climbed back onto the walls for a break and leaned on the railing, panting.
“That’s the [Knight] who tried to out-joust the Sword Crabs, isn’t he? What’s he doing? Defending the city? That’s a first for landfolk!”
“Doing it better than most of ours. How the hell is he fighting so well?”
Therrium had forgotten he was on speaking stone. The dry voice of Doroumata herself answered him.
“Lord Olvos Lanight has a new Skill. [Nemesis: Crustaceans]. I have trusted him with the northern gates.”
Fair enough; the man was doing the job well. But Therrium hesitated.
“…But Shadeward, nautiloids are mollusks.”
He was almost positive about that. The Drowned Woman replied, amused.
“It appears neither he, nor his Skill, cares. It’s close enough for his tastes, it appears. [Bolts of Pain]. These nautiloids refuse to retreat. I have never seen so many…they must have been germinating within the New Lands. Push them back, City Captain.”
What a victory for ignorant landfolk. Therrium returned to cursing the men and women. He was preparing to order them to fall back past the gates and begin a fight in the city proper. It would be ugly, but they’d choke the entrances with their bodies and pray they could cover all the sectors.
That was, of course, when some random landchit of a girl came to talk nonsense about a friend of hers in need. Therrium roared at the girl to get out of his way as he fired more spells from his wand, cursing the mana-drain that affected even parts of Nombernaught. She vanished, and he had just carved his way through two more nautiloids and was drawing breath to sound the retreat when she reappeared.
“Captain! Captain Therrium!”
“Get out of my way!”
He slashed through her with the back of his hand, and Nanette waved her hands.
“Wait! We have reinforcements coming! But we need an anti-scrying spell for fifteen seconds!”
“What? Reinforcements? Unless it’s a damn army, it’s not going to stop that!”
He pointed at the nautiloids coming by the hundreds. Nanette hesitated, but then she puffed her cheeks out, stood up straight, and put her hands on her hips.
“In the name of The Wandering Inn, I promise you won’t regret it! Pull your men and women back and turn off scrying, please!”
Therrium doubted most landfolk were watching this battle, if they’d even made it onto the news; they never cared when Drowned Folk died. But he was in no mood to oblige her. Though that name…
He heard a gasp from his right, and Etaiv stepped back as someone rose out of Therrium’s shadow. A copy of Doroumata peered at Nanette and spoke.
“You will have it, child. If you are wrong, I shall hold this grudge with my city. When?”
Nanette’s eyes flickered as she wavered. She lifted a finger and pointed east.
“Whenever the Wyvern’s overhead. Ch—Lilbrasi says she’s preparing a Skill! On my mark…”
Who? That Wyvern? It was far too far away! Therrium snarled as he turned back, raising a hand. Then he saw the tiny Wyvern flicker…
And grow a lot larger. Captain Therrium spun back and got a firsthand look at a special from The Wandering Inn: chaos and wonder. He heard Nanette shout.
“Mark! Now!”
Doroumata’s lips moved, and there was silence. Therrium stared up and swore he saw a little figure falling from the Wyvern’s back. Then?
There was a terrible roaring in the air, and he didn’t know what he saw next.
 
——
 
[Unit: Lightning Repositioning].
That was Rags’ Skill. It took Coldcream from far outside Nombernaught to flying over the embattled city. She had asked Chickenruler to help defend the city if possible, but not to risk himself. She wouldn’t have even used her Skill, except for Fighti.
Fightipilota had asked her Chieftain for permission to go in. Well, she’d told Rags she was deploying and her Chieftain could help or not. Rags had told Fighti she was in no condition to fly, secrecy, all the good reasons.
Didn’t matter. The shivering Goblin had heard enough. City in danger. Monsters. She was frozen. Couldn’t feel her arms or legs.
She undid her seatbelt, and Nailren reached for her. She locked eyes with him, and he didn’t grab her. So she toppled from the back of the Wyvern and fell.
The Drowned Folk could win this battle. This was not the last stand of Nombernaught. This, too, the [Fighter Pilot] knew.
It. Didn’t. Matter. She saw the fighting Drowned Folk below her and, past them, a city in danger. The cold wind was blowing over the ice on her jacket and arms, and the Goblin was delirious. Frozen. For a second, her mind played tricks on her, and the struggling figures looked like…
Goblins. An army fighting to defend a city of Goblins. Something that had not existed. And might never exist. A strange and painful dream of the future. The [Fighter Pilot] laughed, and she heard the explosions in the air around her. The firepower of another world exploding the world to bits.
She reached for that memory and brought a piece of the future back with her.
[She Flies on Another World’s Wings]. Then the fighter plane was screaming down across the battlefield, and Fighti’s numb fingers were on the joystick of the fighter plane. She pulled down on the triggers with her shaking fingers and didn’t stop firing.
[Aircraft: High Impact Rounds].
Her twin-linked autocannons were roaring, cycling the rounds as fast as they could fire. Fighti saw blue blood exploding across the line of giant mollusks as they pierced the shells without slowing and exploded in the center of mass. She had five seconds—
Magical spells. She thumbed the side triggers, and two blue bolts of lightning shot from her plane’s underbelly. A shower of disgorged light spells. Then a [Greater Orb of Force], falling from below her.
Not enough. She was slashing downwards across the line of nautiloids, into the center of mass pushing for the city’s western gate. If she had thirty seconds to make a full pass, even fifteen—
Five seconds. The Goblin knew it was not enough time. So she ignored the screaming siren in the plane’s cockpit and brought her craft down—
 
——
 
The thunder. Every Drowned Person had hands over their ears. The blood and fragments of shell were spiraling into the air. Glisal was flinching back, staring up, as Therrium saw the strange craft landing.
That is no bird, but a ship of the sky. He saw the metal. He saw how it was made, so sleek and deadly—but the pilot was mad.
She didn’t pull up but crashed into the center of the nautiloids coming at his gate. She hit one of the biggest ones, a twenty-foot monster, and her ship crunched into half its shell as the spinning blades lodged in the meat of the mollusk. But it crumpled her wings, leaving a trail of blue blood and pieces of her craft.
Madness. It must be conjured by her Skill. He saw the pilot, then, a small figure who pulled the triggers one last time. Her airplane roared death straight into the heart of the nautiloid horde—
Then it vanished. And a little figure was lying in the center of the dazed, wounded nautiloids. She could barely stand, but she had something in one hand. A hand-crossbow. She fired, and he saw it discharge three times.
[Sidearm: Three Reckless Shots]. She fired it into the face of the nautiloid she’d plowed into, then collapsed.
The havoc she’d caused froze both sides for a moment. Nautiloids collapsed as their nervous systems only now registered the bullets that had exploded in their bodies. The others backed away, searching for the threat. The Drowned Folk were just as confused, but Therrium triggered his [Battlefield Voice] Skill and shouted.
“We have the momentum! Give them a Terandrian charge! Don’t let that Goblin die.”
He pointed, and Glisal cast around, then stared at the little figure lying on the ground.
“What Goblin, Captain? That’s a Drake—”
Therrium didn’t reply. He was leaping off the walls, and the [Sailors] charged the shocked nautiloids. They burst out of cover, firing their wands and hand-crossbows, shouting.
A full-deck charge across an entire city. Therrium ran past a terrified Lamont, who was shooting a crossbow as he ran. The surprised monsters recoiled, swinging their tendrils defensively. Before he could run into the first nautiloid, Therrium halted. Grabbed Lamont by the scruff of the collar and tossed him back.
Confused, the Human [Sailor] stumbled—then saw everyone charging at the nautiloids reversing as one. The Drowned Folk fired a second wave of shots—then were running back. It was a feint! Even the greenest [Sailor] knew how to pull off the famous bait-and-switch that put the enemy on the back foot.
It worked. The confused nautiloids were retreating and in chaos already; by the time they began to advance again, the Drowned Folk had caught their breath and were ready. And the monsters’ nerves were breaking. Doroumata’s magic was hitting them with bolts of agony that made them decide this wasn’t worth the pain, and more light spells were flashing from the city.
But that Goblin—Therrium was cursing as he tried to spot her amidst the corpses. Where was…?
—Then he saw the Frost Wyvern coming in low, and icy frost breath was freezing nautiloids. He saw a [Wyvern Rider] lifting his hand as the angry Frost Wyvern strategically excreted onto another nautiloid’s head. And—
A second figure dropped to earth. Or rather—flew. It was the second flying Gnoll that Therrium had ever seen, and it was no less surreal than the first.
 
——
 
Nailren was not happy, but he’d seen Fighti crashing her plane, and he knew no one else was going to know where she was nor be running into the battlefield. So he dove and trusted to Fighti’s invention to keep him alive.
The Fightipilota Mk. IV was no airplane. It was a backup device that Fighti had insisted on taking with her. It was nothing more than a glider, really. Adapted from the Flying Gnoll’s designs. The basis for creating a permanent flying vehicle.
It worked quite well. Nailren swooped down in a terrifying dive until he levelled out. But he was skimming too low, and the nautiloid shells were like walls; he saw a flash of green amidst all the blood and torn-up ground and let go.
“Argh—”
He hit the ground, rolled sixteen times, and heard the glider smash into a nautiloid’s shell. Everything hurt. Nailren was on his feet in a second, breathless.
“Fighti!”
He saw her lying on the ground, shivering. A few tiny nautiloids were biting at her. Nailren charged at her and grabbed her. He threw her onto his shoulders as he kicked a baby nautiloid, then spun.
Giant mollusks all around him, eating their comrades or dead Drowned Folk, many moving back to the oceans. They turned to this tasty, moving treat, and Nailren ran.
He sprinted past an angry nautiloid, leaping over tendrils lashing at his legs. Ducked under another and ran left to avoid another. The city—Nailren had one arm on Fighti’s back, the other pumping as he ran for all he was worth.
He was sprinting over cratered ground as fleeing nautiloids saw him and attacked, but he could see the walls and Drowned Folk, who were kneeling in lines, firing spells and crossbow bolts. Nailren heard a booming voice from the ramshackle walls.
“Cover that Gnoll, you useless sea leeches!”
Spells and arrows flew past Nailren as he sprinted for the lines of Drowned Folk. Then he felt something crawling up his shoulder. He turned his head and saw a baby nautiloid that had been trying to eat Fighti. It revealed a lot of teeth on its underbelly and prepared to leap onto his face as he tried to let go of Fighti and grab—
An invisible hand slapped the baby nautiloid off Nailren’s shoulder. It went tumbling off him, and he felt the spoon around his neck grow cold.
“Spoony—good job—”
Then the Gnoll saw a bunch of Drowned Folk [Sailors] crouching behind a barricade of driftwood and vaulted over it. He landed, tumbling with Fightipilota in his arms, and lay there until someone helped him up. Only then did Nailren feel like he could breathe again.
Dead gods, I hate battles. The next second, he was shouting.
“[Healer]!”
Thankfully, his part in the battle was over. And the nautiloids were in retreat.
 
——
 
The First Land Battle for Nombernaught was not one that would go down in other people’s history books, but it was still faithfully recorded in the City Captain’s log by Therrium along with a tally of deaths and the wounded.
He was not well pleased by how much damage the damn mollusks had done. Even if they were being harvested for their meat, young, and shells, it was proof that a city was no easy thing to defend.
“We need better walls. The one thing those damn Drakes understand well enough. The next time the enemy comes via land, I want actual defenses. Why weren’t we better prepared?”
He was snapping at the Luminary, Hisark, and Doroumata as well as former City Captains like the now-bandaged Horvin and other members of the community with a vested interest in keeping their homes safe.
Hisark and Doroumata were not accustomed to anyone raising their voice at them, and the Luminary bridled.
“Normally, we would have a fleet of ships at the city at any time, Captain Therrium. We did have them!”
“And?”
“And they were only able to defend from the sea, and barely that, because we are ashore. I see your point, Captain Therrium. We shall deconstruct what ships we can, and mount defensive spells and weapons on these walls. It will be costly and we do not have much in the way of resources, but it shall be done.”
Doroumata’s voice was steady, and everyone nodded to her. Therrium rubbed at his coat.
“Good. Someone has to make sure this damn city isn’t sunk within the month.”
“We are pleased you are taking on such challenges, Captain Therrium. Not every Captain of the City is able to take on such projects.”
It took Therrium a second to realize he had to redesign Nombernaught’s defenses. He was so lost for words that Doroumata went on.
“Now, about this stranger who has defended our city.”
“The…Drakes? I had no notion there was such a powerful Skill. What was that strange thing they used to fight the nautiloids with?”
There was a telling silence as Hisark frowned, and Therrium glanced at Doroumata. He saw only one other [Captain] raise her brows silently.
So none of them saw it. The Shadeward turned to Therrium.
“We should investigate. Though perhaps we should ensure our guest does not leave the city?”
“As an asset, you mean?”
“An asset of surpassing value. I would assume you would be first to suggest that, Captain Therrium. I would know what that was before considering letting her leave. In detail.”
The two locked eyes, a dread [Pirate] of the seas and Shadeward of the deeps. Therrium refused to look away.
“I take what I think I can hold. I’m no stranger to a good kidnapping, but I’d rather treat our guest with the highest honors.”
“Why?”
Therrium glanced out the window towards the rifts on the ground he could still see from one of Nombernaught’s higher buildings.
“Because I don’t fancy making an enemy of a group I don’t know the capabilities of. Better to be all friendly-like.”
Better an ally than an enemy you didn’t know, especially if there was anyone else like her. Doroumata nodded once.
“I shall personally check on her odd injuries, then. Make your inquiries subtly, Captain of the City.”
She turned and began to melt downwards into a shadow, teleporting with her magic. Therrium glanced around, and everyone was staring at him. He glowered.
“I only took this damn post because it was insisted upon. I expect that once I do my part, someone else will take over who’s more capable of this krakenshit than I am.”
He was a [Pirate]! The Drowned Cities usually barely allowed him in because of the riches he bribed them with. But here he was playing nursemaid for a city. The Drowned Man ground his teeth, then began giving orders. He might as well make sure they had decent walls.
Damn Drakes. How the hell did they make theirs so tall? It didn’t seem possible.
 
——
 
Chickenruler was not a happy Goblin after the brief fight at the city gates. True, Fighti had saved lives and all that, but she had also made their group very, very noticeable…and he didn’t like that.
Well, there was also the way she’d fought. Chickenruler studied the path she’d taken when she’d driven her plane into the heart of the nautiloid horde.
Firing those guns nonstop and coming out of her Skill firing. Not like any sane Goblin did. Not like someone who thought she was going to survive. As his Frost Wyvern landed and he looked for Nailren and Fighti, Chickenruler put a finger to his temple.
“[Memo: Chieftain]. Fighti alive, Chieftain. We pretty visible like pink Gargoyles, but she help for sure. She, uh, got some trauma. But only like average Redfang.”
He’d seen it before. And it told him something of what Fighti had seen in that other world. Pretty bad war. They’d work on her; it wasn’t like this was new to Goblins. It also meant he’d have to make sure she didn’t get herself killed being a hero later.
More work for poor old Chickenruler. He got a succinct reply from Rags.
“Good job. Try to maintain your cover, and report in to Nanette. I’ll have a liaison there at the inn.”
Try to maintain his cover, she said. Chickenruler saw Drowned Folk turning to him and sighed as he leaned over the saddle. The problem began, well…
Instantly.
 
——
 
“Look, we been here before. Lots of times. How you not recognize us? Who else flying in with Frost Wyverns?”
Chickenruler was arguing with a Drowned Woman trying to be accommodating; it wasn’t as if she hadn’t seen him helping fight the nautiloids. But she was checking some notes.
“We understand, sir. But I just don’t have you on our lists. Where are you from?”
The [Wyvern Rider] hesitated.
“Uh…Horrisbel. Near Yolden.”
“…I don’t see a ‘Horrisbel’ anywhere on our lists. You’re sure you came in under that name?”
Then Chickenruler really began to sweat. Because—well—damn it, no! He’d completely forgotten what name they’d used the last time they’d been here! It felt like ages ago!
“Er, er, we know the nice Drowned Man who we traded with. Belfast or something? Can you ask him?”
She eyed him, but marched off and found the weary Drowned Man with blue blood on his uniform. He gave Chickenruler one glance and nodded.
“That’s our Drake friends. I’d know ‘em anywhere. What do you mean they’re not on the list?”
“He said Horrisbel—”
“No, it’s Floodwaters, right? The City of Floodwaters?”
They turned to Chickenruler, and he slapped his forehead, sweat liberally beading down his back.
“Floodwaters! Right, right. We, uh, changed the name of our city. Just last week. How’d I forget? Ha. Hahaha…”
The stares they gave him, then the polite smiles they wore were a weird kind of pain that Chickenruler had never felt before. He was used to hunger, injury, but humiliation? That was new.
Well, identity established, they did let him dismount and had food for Coldcream and a lot of thank-yous—but Chickenruler was really worried for Fightipilota. And his cover.
“I’ll have someone show you where your friend is. She was badly frostbit, but we had a [Deepsea Healer] looking at her. Hmm. Lamont! Front and center!”
A Human, a genuine Human, came dashing out of the crowd and saluted Belfast. The Drowned Man nodded at Chickenruler.
“This here’s Lamont, a Human, but good as a seafolk. He’s good with visitors. Lamont, they’re keeping the Drake at the Eir Gel Grotto. You know, the giant conch? Can you show our guest around? He can have the run of the city, the City Captain says. Put him up in a good hotel.”
“Can do, Belfast! This way, sir. Was that you on the Wyvern?”
“Eh, sure was. Nice to meet you. I’m Chickenruler. A [Wyvern Rider].”
“Lamont, [Sailor].”
The two walked past Drowned Folk being patched up or other teams wearing full-body diving suits with metal bell helmets made of brass, marching out to cut up the nautiloids. Chickenruler was instantly distracted.
“What that?”
He pointed at the suited figure walking past him. Their helmet had a glass faceplate with metal guards, like a lantern; it was even glowing from inside! It was spooky, and Lamont explained.
“That? Classic, old-fashioned—I mean, diving suit. It’s got a helmet, air supply—Drowned Folk who can’t breathe water naturally or who go into the deep sea wear it to avoid being crushed. Or to cut up big corpses. Because of parasites, see? They don’t want to get anything on them.”
“Oh. Smart.”
The two walked on, and after a moment, Lamont coughed.
“So you, uh, you’re Drakes.”
“Yep.”
“Was that—did I see an airplane or was that something else? An, uh, flying machine?”
Chickenruler gave Lamont the blandest gaze possible. Earther. He shrugged.
“I dunno what that was. My friend has it. Some Skill thing, you know? I just fly a Wyvern. Much simpler.”
“Oh, got it, got it. Um—so where are you from?”
“That’s the question I want to know, sometimes.”
He confused Lamont sufficiently to get to the ‘Eir Gel Grotto’ and found that Fightipilota was there with Nailren, and to his relief, the [Deepsea Healer] seemed to know her stuff.
 
——
 
“Looks like some magical ice alright. Needs dispelling. Until then, this will keep her fine as can be. We don’t have much, but this is our finest healing pod left.”
Fightipilota was, at this moment, mostly naked aside from some privacy fog on the huge, blown glass orb she was floating in, a facemask on with a tube leading out of it that gave her air.
The moving censor bars were, funnily enough, a Skill. The [Deepsea Healer] was named Juresei, and she was half-Shrimp. Her delicate feeler-stalks on her other side were manipulating some controls that were tied to the pod, and Nailren was asking questions.
“What is she in?”
“Water. And Eir Gel. It’s a mixture of the two; like a healing potion, but permanent.”
“Really? I’ve never heard of dunking someone in the liquid.”
The Drowned Woman snorted as Chickenruler and Lamont came into the room.
“Well, you wouldn’t on land. Most landfolk don’t buy much Eir Gel, anyways. The island it comes from can produce enough for the entire world—or used to. But getting enough to fill a pod like this? It takes a lot, and the most pure and aged stuff. Now it’s all been corrupted, this is all we have. We have to keep cleansing the gel, but it’ll run out, and then…”
She shook her head, then hit another button.
“For your friend, we’ll do all we can. Doroumata’s daughter will have to dispel the ice, but this will keep her warm.”
The water was almost bubbling with heat as she upped the pod’s heating. Nailren nodded respectfully.
“Thank you, Healer Juresei. May I ask how long it’d take to recover…?”
“I don’t know frostbite. But assuming she hasn’t lost anything…I’d give it four, five days? She’s young and tough. Though I swear she didn’t feel scaly at all. Did they wear off or are Drakes not as scaled as they look?”
Chickenruler didn’t know how to answer that, but Nailren was scary-smooth.
“I’m sure she’s just passed out so her scales aren’t moving like they would normally. She’s like a snake, or so I’d guess. I don’t know Drakes that well, mind you.”
Juresei chuckled.
“Like a snake. As if that’s clearer! Well, I suppose landfolk snakes and sea snakes are close enough? Very well, you can leave her in my care. If you’d like to stay, I’ll find a place for you to rest, but she’s not in danger now she’s in the pod, or so my Skill tells me.”
That was a relief. Chickenruler sat down—then leapt to his feet as no less than Shadeward Doroumata entered the room. She was terrifying, and the [Healer] bowed all over herself, but Doroumata just inspected Fighti, then lifted a hand.
“[Dispel]. Hmm. Failure. [Targeted Dispel]. Failure. [Salt’s Purification]. Some effect. I would test this out more, but she is our guest.”
Bits of ice had flaked off Fightipilota’s body with that last spell. Doroumata twitched her fingers as three of her daughters hurried into the room.
“Mother, we could link and—”
“No. I wish to try my magic against this magical beast. Shadows, envelop.”
The pod went dark as shadows raced up it and turned the water black. Juresei began to protest, but Doroumata just put a hand on her staff, which was a twisted piece of black coral, and spoke.
“[Shadows Consume All].”
Okay, that sounded real ominous. Chickenruler shifted, but Doroumata just waved the shadows away, and when they vanished and the glowing gel returned, he saw the ice was gone!
“I simply ate the magic. It was…powerful. Level 40 cryomancy, I suspect. If one was dedicated to inflicting frost. You say something cast it on her?”
“Eh, more like she sort of was nearby and it froze her. Hey, I’m Chickenruler. Thanks for healing my friend.”
Chickenruler held out a hand, which provoked a gasp from Juresei and the daughters, but Doroumata took his hand in her fragile, withered one and studied his face.
“Fascinating. On behalf of Nombernaught, I thank you…Chickenruler. And you, stranger?”
Nailren was next, and she peered at him, then squinted.
“You…have a curse on you.”
“No, Shadeward, I respectfully do not. Just a friend.”
That got her attention as well, and Nailren grinned as the daughters tried to see what Doroumata had sensed. Then she was demanding answers, and Chickenruler? He walked over to Juresei to make sure that he was allowed to come back later, then wandered out of the healing grotto. Lamont took him to an inn in the city, and Chickenruler was told he’d be eating like a [King]. But the very first thing he did was ask if they had sugar, milk, and ice.
The milk turned out to be the hard part. Drowned Folk didn’t do cows. But they did have other mammals in the sea, and you could milk almost anything. So Chickenruler ended up making the first seafolk-based ice cream. He was a tiny bit proud of that, even if it was green.
They had all those things, so he mixed up a huge batch of ice cream, split it with the fascinated kitchen staff, and took the rest to Coldcream and fed the Frost Wyvern to his heart’s content. Then Chickenruler went back and slept like a log.
 
——
 
[Fighter Pilot Level 20!]
[Class Change: Fighter Pilot → Wartouched Fighter Pilot!]
[Wartouched Fighter Pilot Level 20!]
[Skill – Aircraft: Emergency Boost Obtained!]
[Skill Change: She Flies on Another World’s Wings (5 Seconds) → She Flies on Another World’s Wings (7 Seconds)!]
[Skill – Summon Bound Turret Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Bound Turret Obtained!]
 
Fightipilota awoke in the weird floating tank twice, the first time in a panic, before someone told her where she was. The second time she stared out at the world beyond and saw a Drowned Man with half of an eel’s face studying at her, arms crossed. She realized she was naked and began flailing around until someone told her no one could see anything.
Then she went to sleep again and woke up in a bed. Apparently, she’d been well enough to move out of the healing pod so someone else could use it.
Chickenruler, Nailren, and even Nanette visited her and kept her up-to-date. Apparently, Fighti had helped save a lot of lives in the battle. She didn’t feel…great about it.
She felt like an idiot, diving in there. Her plane had been at 52% durability when she woke up. And she was lucky, she suspected, to even have that.
It gave her time to think. Like about her class levelup and what it meant.
Well, clearly it meant she might have a tiny bit of what Nailren called ‘Warsights’. He was worried about her. Fighti was fine, really. She just had a bit of the Redfang madness. You see too many friends dying in battle, you got a bit crazy.
So she’d seen an entire world vanish and been in a war where thousands of people had died each second and the Goblin King himself had been rampaging. Oh, and the girl she’d tried to save had bled out.
That was fine. She’d get over it. Probably.
Seven seconds of flying time meant she’d not be so stupid as last time. As for her other Skill, she reckoned it let her bind a ‘turret’ and summon it whenever she wanted. Probably the Thunderbow, but it made Fighti decide that she wanted Chieftain Rags to design a really nice weapon for Fighti. Something mobile so she could use it on Coldcream’s back, but more powerful. With a padded seat.
These things kept her from thinking about her mentality when she’d been diving into the nautiloid horde. It was more embarrassing when Drowned Folk kept coming over to her to thank her for saving someone’s life.
They believed in expressing thanks in material ways. Half had offered her actual money until she’d said she didn’t want money, but she’d take a snack while she was lying in bed.
So she had a mountain of snacks, from seaweed crackers—which went really well with sweet syrup-stuff milked from undersea animals—to lovely sushi.
Sushi. Mm. Fighti’s stomach hurt from lying in bed all day—mostly because she couldn’t get up.
Like, physically. Whatever damage that ice had done to her, the [Deepsea Healer] had managed to reverse, and she’d actually saved Fighti’s fingers and toes from being lost to frostnip. But the tradeoff was that she’d turned Fighti into a potato.
[Sea Cucumber’s Restoration], she’d called it. Fightipilota couldn’t even get up to pee without help. She’d be fine in another day or two, but it meant Fighti was bored.
They’d put on a television for her, but she got tired of it at night, so she was lying there, wondering how much trouble she was going to be in when she got back to Goblinhome, and just…thinking, when someone stepped into the little room they’d given her.
Fighti thought it was her [Healer] or Chickenruler coming to report how weird things were in Nombernaught again until she realized this was someone else. Then a man came in and sat.
Lord Olvos Lanight. He was dressed in civilian clothes and looked a lot skinnier, because she was so used to seeing the fellow in his mithril armor. He didn’t say a word as she lay there.
He was…staring at her. She quite recalled the last time they’d met after she and Redscar had helped him take revenge on the Sword Crabs. He’d cried on her shoulder, then. But she didn’t know if that old man was friends with her.
He knew she was a Goblin. Well, Chickenruler had said he suspected the City Captain and the Shadeward had figured out who they were. But according to Rags, that might be fine because Drowned Folk had a different perspective on Goblins.
Lord Olvos, though, was a Terandrian. And he had a shadowed expression on his face.
Also, and Fighti couldn’t help but note this—it was well past midnight. No one was awake. She lay there, immobile, as he stared at her. Possibly, he thought she was asleep. When she spoke, he did start.
“Look, if you stay, you gotta help me pee. Deal?”
She thought that might chase him out of the room altogether, but Lord Lanight didn’t move. He just sat there, his grey hair barely illuminated by the green moonlight coming through a window. Then he stared out the window at the cracked, green moon.
“I am sure you are aware of the…Goblin King incident. Which half my kingdom does not believe actually occurred. As well, the Goblin Lord named ‘Ragathsi’. I viewed the result of her rampage on scrying orb.”
Fightipilota said nothing. She noted, in that distant way, that Lord Olvos had a sword at his hip. She bet it was mithril, like everything else the man had. He was an important guy, she understood. Not like a Goblin Lord in rank, but maybe between there and a Chieftain?
She didn’t know Human things. She didn’t know him for all she’d shared some moments with him. And the way he was studying her…Lord Olvos went on after a moment.
“The King of Oztera is dead.”
Who? Fighti bit her tongue on that, and Lord Olvos clarified after a pause.
“I realize you may not know who that is. Oztera is a kingdom of Terandria, one of the Hundred Families’ remaining kingdoms. He is dead. His palace…a hole has been burned through it. The Goblin Lord did that. As well, a noblewoman, Lady Faire, has been killed, her estate levelled. Pallass’ 2nd Army is all but destroyed. I am sure you are aware of this.”
He waited, and Fighti said nothing. Lord Olvos brushed at his cheeks; he’d shaved and looked better, if not exactly happier than before.
“I…House Lanight owes you a debt for avenging us. You saved my granddaughter and prevented me from wasting my life. These are facts as pure as mithril. But also a fact is what I have seen and been reminded of. You understand? Do you—were you there? Did you take part in those events?”
This time, he waited, clearly expecting a response, so Fighti stared up at the ceiling and then tried to shrug.
“Eh, all that? Couldn’t be me. Must have been some other tribe. Wasn’t my Goblin Lord.”
She saw him twitch and inhale sharply.
“Fighti…pilota. Do not lie to me. The Goblin King arose, is that true?”
“I mean, maybe? Sure. Didn’t last long if he did.”
“—And you have nothing to say to that? That Goblin Lord murdered a [King] and a palace and wrought so much devastation—I am reminded of the Goblin King’s sins. I am conflicted. How can you claim ignorance?”
He was rubbing at his face, in great moral distress or something. Fighti stared up at the ceiling and wished they could have done this after she peed. Or maybe, and she was just spitballing here, maybe she was just sort of tired, had almost lost all her limbs to frostbite, and then crashed her plane. Which had hurt. A lot.
“Let me ask you a question, Lord Olvos.”
“Very well.”
He blinked at her, and she frowned at the ceiling, trying to remember.
“You, eh, you know Ailendamus?”
“The Kingdom of Glass and Glory? Yes, we border them. They’re the largest kingdom in Terandria. Well, kingdom—they’re more an empire, a dangerous one. Bitorm is no friend to them, but we are wary of being enemies. Why?”
He crossed his arms, and Fighti smiled.
“But they made war on the Dawn Concordat, right? Killed lots of people?”
“That is the least of the sins you could lay at their feet.”
“Wow. That so bad. Hey, what’s with Ailendamus? You darn [Lord], why are you killing people in Calanfer? I like Calanfer!”
She glared at the ceiling since she couldn’t raise her head, and Lord Olvos replied after a moment.
“…I’m not part of Ailendamus.”
“You sure is.”
“I am not. I am from the Lantocracy of Bitorm.”
“Yeah, but you’re Human. All Humans the same, right? All Terandria is.”
Silence. After a moment, Fightipilota managed to turn her head to him. She didn’t give him a smile, more like a Goblin’s grin.
“What was that about my Goblin Lord and my Goblin King?”
She wasn’t that good with words, but she had a definite impression she’d scored a point there. Lord Olvos frowned thunderously, not happy about being taken for some Ailendamus stooge. After a moment, he exhaled.
“…The difference is that Goblin Kings are hereditary to Goblins. They occur, inevitably. But for that, I would accept your comments.”
Her smile edged wider as he stared at her legs covered by the blanket.
“I dunno if we’re that different. Some Goblin King pops up? Most Goblins go to fight. Eh, but not all. You just think ‘all’ because you see lots of Goblins. Plenty of tribes don’t. Some. I dunno, I wasn’t there. But you Humans not all the same? Weird. Someone says, ‘crusade’, and that seems to work every time.”
Now, he glowered at her.
“That is a reductive way of viewing our continent. We do not all go on crusades nor do we—”
He hesitated. Closed his mouth and studied her again. Fighti stared up at the ceiling.
“Yeah, well. You never asked if I was on the Goblin King’s side or against him.”
There was a long, long pause, and she sensed him studying her.
“You fought him?”
“Yup. Shot him lots. Doesn’t really work. Damn bastard regenerates faster than a bucket of water in a rainstorm. But hey, you gotta stab who you gotta stab. Make it quick, would you?”
She treated him to a brittle, exhausted smile without artifice. Without fear. If he wanted her dead, dead she was, and there was no more point to this conversation, in Fighti’s mind.
They’d said their parts, done the little stupid dance.
It reminded her of apologizing to Rasktooth. And how the good apologies she’d used to love, the people who let a Goblin live—weren’t enough.
This conversation wasn’t giving her anything, so she really just wanted to pee, sleep, or for him to leave. But he sat there, troubled, as if—
“Feel like the strange little Goblin’s made your big head all confused? Now you’re the one who has to decide if I’m good or need the old chop-chop. Poor Lord Olvos. The weight of the world on his shoulders.”
The man started, and his white mustaches moved faintly in the moonlight as he jerked upright, eyes narrowing. But Fighti just giggled at him.
“Should I not care? Should I not be wracked with indecision, Fighti? I came to you earnestly—”
“Yeah. Now I know why Rags looks like she hasn’t pooped in ten years sometimes. She has to do this all the time? Talk to people, non-Goblins, and keep explaining what we are? That we’re not all one Goblin, in love with the Goblin King? Dead gods, but it’s tiring. You think you’re the only Human? You think you’re the first?”
“I’m well aware other people have accepted Goblins before. There was an adventurer.”
Garen. How the stories echoed. Fighti closed her eyes and remembered her annoying, charismatic, disgrace of a leader. It just made her angrier, so she spat.
“Yeah. An adventuring team took in a single Goblin and look what that did. Oh no, he caused the next Goblin King! One Goblin lived, fought, betrayed his team, and then died. Leaving nothing behind.”
“He founded the Redfang tribe. One of the foremost tribes of Izril, who settled the High Passes. The same tribe fought against the Goblin Lord, Reiss. Or joined him. They still exist; one with their iconic red warpaint is deemed a [Blademaster]. A tribe whose members continue to represent Goblins’ strength.”
Lord Olvos’ words made Fighti’s eyes snap open. And she realized—he was staring at something propped up by her bed. A folded jacket. A bomber jacket from the future with the silly insignia of a Goblin who wanted to fly. And which still had those decorative crimson…
His eyes turned to her. Fighti snarled.
“So you did your homework. Big deal. You’re one little Human [Lord]. From one kingdom no one here cares about.”
“We mine and forge Mithril.”
He seemed vaguely insulted. Fighti rolled her eyes.
“You’re not important enough…to doom this world. You can’t kill my tribe. You can’t do more than kill, what, a thousand Goblins? You can’t even kill giant crabs. Just kill me. Or do your worst. You think you can threaten me? All you can do, old guy, is take one Goblin out of this world. Or add one to it.”
It took him a second to infer what she meant, and the [Lord] sat back in his chair.
“I am not a monster.”
“Sure. But you hear stories. Female Goblins never want to get captured. Wonder why.”
The man didn’t want to respond to that. Fighti went on, ranting now. She wanted to hurt him. Wanted to chase him out, because she didn’t want to deal with this.
“Let me tell you about my day, old guy. I nearly died. I saw the most beautiful, cold, amazing thing in the world, and it nearly killed me. Which sucked. Then someone said, ‘oh no, a bunch of Drowned Folk might die!’ So I went and did what I could. Because that’s what I wanted to do. Because that’s me. Just me being me. But because I have power, just a bit of power, I scared one poor Human so bad he shit himself and had to run over here to convince himself the big bad little Goblin isn’t going to fight House Lanight. Because I’m not some dumb monster he can ride down with a lance.”
“You saved my life and my granddaughter’s. Questioning my preconceived notions is my duty, as is protecting my kingdom and house. It is no easy matter. I am sorry for my actions. I was overwhelmed with grief.”
Fighti turned her head enough to spit over the side of her bed.
“You’re doing it again. Making this all about you! So worried that my Chieftain or I will kill a bunch of you. Yeah, we’re high-level. Yeah, we can destroy things. So what? Go be afraid of King Othius. Look into his cold, dead eyes, and then you’ll see a man who won’t stop. He’ll drown cities in the bodies of his silly [Heroes], send them up a hallway until they’re climbing over each other. Shooting everything that moves. Humans, Drakes, children—you want a monster? Try a man who won’t die even when you saw him in half with bullets. That’s a monster.”
Her fingers were twitching. She still saw the Blighted King gazing at her, straight through her. His screaming soldiers executing everything.
“Crelers all around and he couldn’t care less. Just about him surviving. Scary Goblins. Did you even see the thing the Drakes made? We had to stop it. We. Sure, your stupid little armies got there, but without us, it would have come out long ago. Without Trolls. All the monstrous species fighting other people’s mistakes. And our reward is being the scary monsters.”
He didn’t say a word, and Fighti held up one hand. Eyes locked on him.
“I can kill you. Is that what you want to hear? I can kill you and your House, and I can probably kill a lot of Nombernaught before they kill me. So can anyone. I earned this power. I earned it fighting a war no one will ever know, in a place that never was and never should be and—”
Goblins walking through a city meant only for them. Talking by the thousands in their odd, silly communities. Working jobs. Complaining about having to make a living. Dancing, raising children, no longer being a tribe. Too many for you to know them all.
A glowing city plagued by a rain of arrows. Tears sprang to Fighti’s eyes, and she was too tired to wipe them away.
“That’s how it works. Go be a good [Goblinfriend], Lord Olvos. Or go and be our enemy. It’s better for you if you try and kill us. Because if you take our side, if you’re the one person who stands up for us, they’ll kill you. Just like they tried to kill Erin. They’d rather turn seas to boiling steam and continents to glass than change. And you know what? We live. We’ll be around, even if you kill me, my entire tribe, and every baby on the continent. There’ll be the next Goblin, and she’ll rise higher. Until she’s so mad, so angry, she becomes that thing you deserve. The Goblin King.”
Fighti could see him roaring out of a good man’s soul, puppetting a body he had no right to. And then she relaxed and lay there.
“…And then a Goblin like me will fight him. Fight him and drag him screaming back to Hellste. And level. And live—until she ends up in a lovely room with some Human asking her if she’s a ‘good Goblin’. That’s how it works. A cycle, just like Chieftain Rags says. I was a good Goblin. I did everything right. I saw our future—”
Flying in the burning skies, fingers resting on the triggers. Looking around as people died, searching for a single white Gnoll in all the blood and chaos. Seeing a little red child being airlifted away. And then Fighti whispered her confession.
“The future of Goblins is only war. To live, we have to fight you people. Again and again, until we level and scare you more, so we have to fight harder. Run further. I did it better than anyone else. My reward is my great Skill. All I wanted to do was fly. Instead, I became a weapon.”
A beautiful one made of whirling metal that could roar out of the skies. Flight…but all she did was kill. For seven seconds each day. Fighti lay there, and tears blobbed out of her eyes.
“I just wanted to fly. But instead I get to be the monster you all want me to be.”
That was it. That was everything. She had gone with Chickenruler back to flying the New Lands, trying to pretend she was still the same Goblin with dreams of the future. Instead, she had gone to the future, and it had hurled back a shard of itself in her. Forged her into what was necessary.
It was only a dream. This was what was better for the tribe.
It just hurt. And she was allowed to cry. Someday, it wouldn’t be a waste of water. She’d seen it.
Fightipilota had forgotten Lord Olvos was there, really, at the end of her ranting. He was sitting there, half-shadowed, listening. Then she was embarrassed. Angry.
Lord Olvos stood up slowly with that popping sound of old joints. Which made him wince. She couldn’t see his face as he stood over her. Fighti closed her eyes.
She’d told the truth. However, the rasping of a sword in its scabbard didn’t come. The man’s voice was husky as he spoke.
“The Lantern of House Lanight is a treasure of my kingdom. A lantern carried since the days of the Kingdom of Bitorm’s founding. Lost. Not forever. It shall endure beyond you or I. It is a magical lantern without the power to save lives or harm. Merely reveal. It reveals magic, paths, truths, and some say, the quality of the soul.”
Great. She said nothing, and the man turned.
“I have often thought my kingdom relied too much on our lanterns to see by. I do not need it. I have been blinded at times, gazing into its heart. Rest well, Fightipilota. I am sorry for troubling you while you were healing.”
He turned and walked out of her rooms. Fighti stared at his back. Then she put her head back on the pillow.
So. She lived.
She didn’t laugh or say a word. She just cried a bit, then fell asleep. Dreaming of flying after a vast creature in frozen skies. Lord Olvos walked out into the streets of Nombernaught. Quietly piecing together a story from a delirious Goblin’s rantings. But he believed her.
 
——
 
The Goblin was snoring in her rooms, and no one else had come to bother her. Which was good; one of the dresser drawers moved slightly, and a little figure stretched and rubbed at his limbs.
Even for a Drowned Boy who was half-Octopus, it was a narrow, uncomfortable squeeze. He whispered into a speaking stone.
“Th’ [Lord]’s gone, Captain Therrium. Lotta talkin’ I don’t get. Sounded important. Saved it on the song crystal for ya. Them Terandrians like to yap a lot. Goblins too. You want me to follow him or lock the door?”
After a moment, he heard a negatory and sighed, then curled back up again as he closed the drawer and waited.
 
——
 
When Fightipilota woke up the next day, she found all her energy was back. She practically popped out of bed.
“Hey! I’m healed!”
Then she ran around the room in delight, stretched, scratched her itchy nose, her butt, and then sighed in relief. She stretched again, relieved to not have lost any mobility or gotten any scars from her travails. She liked scars, of course, but they ached even if they were highly decorative.
Then she went to find her friends. The hospitality of Nombernaught awaited, and Fighti had a personal date with as much seafood as she could eat.
She found Nailren and Chickenruler with Lamont, whom they’d quickly made friends with. The [Sailor] was in the calm bay of Nombernaught, showing them something he had made, or rather, remade after taking it from Wistram.
It was…a mana-powered sailboat. There was a kind of fancy, glowing battery that ran on electricity and mana and powered the craft around. Lamont had taken the battery with him when he’d escaped Wistram, and it had taken a lot of time and help from his girlfriend, Dorace, one of Doroumata’s daughters, but Nailren was taking turns with Chickenruler and sailing it around Coldcream, who was bathing in the waters.
When they saw Fighti was awake, everyone ran over, and Chickenruler punched Fighti in the shoulder.
“You idiot! Do you know how much trouble I’ve had to fix?”
She grinned as Nailren grabbed her arm.
“Any levels?”
“A few. Hey, what this? And who this?”
Lamont was a bit in awe of Fighti and shook her hand, asking about the fighter plane he’d seen. She did her best.
“What? Pssht. That—you must have been mistaken. But hey, how cool did it look? Scale of one to a hundred.”
There were other obvious Earthers with Lamont, and Drowned Folk interested in meeting the two ‘Drakes’. Fighti met Caroline, a [Writer]; Haley, who was a [Squire]; Sidney…and Captain Therrium.
The Drowned Man was some kind of famous, scary [Pirate Captain], but he gave her a nod and a shake of his hand as he stood there, arms folded. Even Lord Olvos appeared after a while, and Haley practically dashed over to him; apparently, she wanted him to take her as his [Squire]. Which he did not want to do, clearly.
It was strange. Oh, not the different people and Earthers all here. That was just like The Wandering Inn. The strange part was that everyone was being super-nice to Fighti. Nice as in ‘we think we need to treat you nice’.
She could tell the difference. No one told her to shut up, no one bossed her around like some Drakes liked to try to do, and everyone was…buttering her up. Buttering her like a piece of toast.
Fighti eventually realized what it was. It was, for the first time in her life, being an equal to these other peoples. Not in a position of superiority; Captain Therrium felt as dangerous as Rags to Fighti, and Doroumata was as scary a spellcaster as Valeterisa and seemed a lot sharper and meaner if she had to be.
Nor was Goblinhome even close to Nombernaught for grandness. But…Fighti had something they didn’t.
You can hurt us, and I could hurt you. Parity. Even if it was backed up by killing Skills and levels, it was such a surreal experience Fighti felt mighty uncomfortable.
The feeling of being a Relic-class blade. She’d get used to it. She was a bit hazy on her late-night visit from Lord Olvos, but she remembered it with keen embarrassment. She hoped she hadn’t revealed anything that would get her tribe in trouble. But…well, what was done was done.
Fighti wanted to get back to flying, even if her Skill hadn’t repaired itself enough for her to trust it. She’d conjured it this morning, and she thought it might fly. The wings were all dented inwards, and the propeller in front didn’t work, but she could probably glide it for seven seconds, and the guns might not blow up when she fired.
Good enough to get on the road, right? Well…when she suggested it, Chickenruler kicked her.
“You dumb? You wake up all of one hour and you want to leave? We resting! Your Skill can’t protect us, and Coldcream still hurty.”
Resting. Fighti protested that she and Coldcream were fine. However, both Chickenruler and Rags were adamant. Stay and rest a while; the Drowned Folk weren’t indicating their welcome was wearing out, so Fighti found herself on holiday in Nombernaught.
Again.
 
——
 
It was weird. The first time Fighti had been here, she’d loved it. But she’d been keeping a low profile and just stayed near the inn they’d been given, going to explore a few nearby streets at most.
Now, she was an esteemed guest with the run of the city, but it wasn’t as fun. Again, probably because she had nearly died dive-bombing nautiloids and maybe exploded on Olvos. She wasn’t…good.
“You just a bit Redfang-crazy. Chieftain Rags gonna have Taganchiel or Prixall talk to you when you get back.”
“Great.”
Maybe it’d help. Fighti kicked around the city, hands in her pockets, keenly aware there were so many more important things she could be doing than ‘resting’.
If she had access to Goblinhome’s engineering department, she could try to fix up her plane or work on prototypes—or just create the turret she could apparently summon at will. She was thinking an even bigger Thunderbow. With multiple kinds of projectiles.
Weapon.
—The city had a lot of access to the harbor, which you’d expect from any Drowned City. What Fighti found funny was that it had an indoor swimming area that looked like, well, a beach.
With lighting and everything. It was contained inside, and she didn’t get it until the Human [Sailor] whom Chickenruler had befriended, Lamont, explained the obvious.
“Nombernaught is usually fathoms deep, and swimming is deadly. Drowned Folk want to swim at their leisure, hence this area. During the winter, everyone saw the beach garden at The Wandering Inn, so they altered it.”
The result was some pristine damn waters, all green and lovely. Fighti saw Drowned Folk playing in the waters, even some visitors from the ships.
A kid was running past Fighti, being chased by a [Squire] with a practice sword.
“I’m getting you this time, Sidney! Avast, you lily-livered landlubber!”
The shrieking girl was part of a group of kids fleeing the big, bad Human with a sword. They dove into the water, then pelted the [Squire] with mudballs, and Haley threw up her shield.
“Hey, no mudballs! No—”
Someone inked her with a long-range spit-shot, and she spluttered. Lamont pointed them out.
“That’s Haley and Sidney. I’m part of a little group here—we’re sort of earning our way in Nombernaught. Fighti, right? Chickenruler said you like vehicles. I have a mana-powered sailboat if you wanted to try it…”
“Pass.”
Chickenruler elbowed Fightipilota hard, but she was just sitting, staring at the waters. Too moody to want to check out that awesome-sounding thing. She was, in fact, so determined not to have any fun that she was being snappish to everyone.
Including Coldcream, who was helping to make ice cream on the beach in exchange for a cut of the spoils. He wanted to snuggle her; she pushed his head away. That nearly earned her the boot of justice from Chickenruler until someone sat next to her.
“Get lost, Lord Olvos.”
She turned her head, glared—and Captain Therrium Sailwinds was sitting there in full captain’s regalia. He fit the beach about as well as Shadeward Doroumata would have.
“Healed up, Miss?”
“Yeah, thanks. Not in the mood to chat.”
“Fair enough.”
The Drowned Man nodded at her and went back to scrutinizing the people bathing. Fighti appreciated that. She’d heard that Captain Therrium was a dangerous [Pirate], but he had a stoic attitude she needed at this moment. Rather like Redfangs.
 
——
 
Captain Therrium cursed internally. He knew he should have sent one of his underlings to soften the Goblin up, but no one could tell she was a Goblin but him and the Shadeward. Maybe a few of the [Captains], but—
Well, what in the depths was he supposed to say to re-open the conversation? He sat there, glowering into the sea, until someone oohed.
“Oh my goodness. Captain Therrium? I never see you at the beach! And our dashing Drake heroine? You make an amazing duo.”
His heart sank as he recognized that voice. Half the Drowned Folk playing around had spotted her and were fleeing the area. It took something to be feared in Nombernaught, a city of [Pirates]. But she was that feared. He rose, trepidatious despite himself.
“Stow that quill, Writer Caroline. That’s our guest. I won’t have you making up doggrel about her.”
The [Romance Writer] gave Therrium what she probably thought was an innocent look.
“Who, me? I’m just making observations, Captain! About the grumpy man with a heart like a shell. Who never socializes, never smiles unless it’s at treasure. And the one person he chose to greet—hello, Miss! I’m Caroline, sort of a famous writer. And you are?”
Fightipilota glanced up at Caroline and moved some wet sand around with her claws.
“Not interested. I’ve had it up to here with you people. Get lost.”
Therrium’s brows rose. Caroline faltered.
“Hey, does that mean Humans?”
“No, just your type. You’re not special, and unless you made this beach yourself, I’m not interested. Plus, you don’t want to write about me or whatever.”
Fighti said that with utterly misplaced confidence. Because Caroline edged closer, peering at Fighti.
“I don’t know. I think my class is telling me I absolutely want to get to know you better.”
Amazing. Therrium’s eyebrow rose despite himself. Was Caroline’s insane class actually overcoming the illusion-Skill the Goblin had? That was an amazing edge use-case for her class, but Fighti’s flat look met Caroline’s dancing eyes—a second before she nailed the [Romance Writer] with a mudball.
“Aaah! My eyes!”
Down Caroline went. Fighti lifted a second mudball.
“Beat it. You’re as bad as Arnie. Okay, almost as bad.”
 
——
 
Caroline had dropped her notepad and quill and fumbled to save them from the waters.
“You’re awful! Haley! Haley, did you see that? Protect me! What about chivalry? Don’t you dare laugh! See if I write anything about—”
She turned to shake a fist at Fighti, then stopped dead. She stared at the little Goblin who had replaced the Drake in her vision. After all, Fighti had just thrown a mudball in her face. Caroline’s jaw dropped.
“No. Way. Oh my—”
She began edging away, taking notes as fast as she could write. Especially because Captain Therrium was smiling and offering Fighti a drink.
 
——
 
“Anyone who hits that nuisance is a friend in my book. Here.”
Drowned Folk drank all the time. Much like [Storm Sailors], they didn’t believe in waiting until the evening to drink; in fact, Therrium objected to the practice.
“Drinking in the night ruins your sleep. You start early.”
“Hey, I like that. Guess you’re better than talking to those Humans after all. So what do you want?”
Fighti was still being direct. Captain Therrium drank deeply from his cup, filled it again.
“Cultivating relationships with useful people in the New Lands.”
“Oh, cool. My city and yours can be good allies. You can leave the bottle.”
He paused, then leaned over the cup and grabbed Fighti’s jacket and dragged her closer.
“I am thankful for your actions, woman. But mind me, there’s respect among equals; we were that. Some from you wouldn’t go amiss.”
The Goblin bared her teeth, ready to say something he’d regret. She picked up a mudball, and then there was a voice.
“Oooh.”
Both Fighti and Therrium turned, and Caroline threw up her arms and fled as both hurled mudballs at her. Therrium looked disgruntled as he leaned back.
“That woman is a menace. People read what she writes, so she has half the [Captains] walking scared of her. The other half welcome it.”
“Yeah, yeah. Whatever. I’ve seen crazier.”
“You must have been at Liscor, then. Seen other folk like her?”
It was a probing comment from the [Captain] who was probably sharp and dangerous. Fighti took down the rest of her wine and shoved her cup at him.
“Listen. I don’t know anything worth stealing. I just visit the inn sometimes and eat their pastrami sandwiches, which are excellent. There’s your intel.”
“A contact with access to the center of Izril’s worth having. What’s your price?”
“Higher than whatever you’ve got.”
His eye flashed again, and Fighti tilted her head. For some reason, she felt like he was familiar, despite him being the only Drowned Man she’d really talked to besides…
“Wait what’s your name again?”
“Therrium Sailwinds. Captain of the Passing Shadow.”
“Huh. Small world. Do you know Seborn Sailwinds? He’s a Gold-ranker who stayed at the inn a lot. I liked him.”
Therrium blinked in genuine astonishment. He sat back.
“Seborn? He’s my second-son. A fool who fled to land and—he stayed at that inn? I knew he was around Pallass.”
“You’re Seborn’s dad?”
It…sort of fit? He was half-Eel, but some of his features were the same. The scowl looked right. Therrium and Fighti sized each other up again, this time with more interest.
“Is Seborn still in Liscor? He might be useful after all, though I’d rather you between the two. I’m a straightforwards man. I’ll make you an offer for information and a hand in the right place, nothing that compromises your loyalties.”
Fighti grinned. Rags had said she was allowed to let herself be bought off, but she’d never thought it’d actually happen.
“Wow, my first bribery. I get a free drink back home. You should have asked Seborn. He’s way more useful. And probably easier to bribe. What, you didn’t talk to him for…two years?”
“He forswore my crew and abandoned his post. Claims I owe him—bah, he’s entitled. He’s run his mouth about my ‘debts’ on television no less. If I owe him anything, it’s after I beat him senseless. Let’s not talk about him.”
“What? I like talking about him. You sound like my dad.”
That threw Therrium twice. He eyed Fighti.
“Your…father?”
“Oh, yeah. My real dad, not the one who got my mother pregnant. He’d toss you off a cliff and make you climb back up to get tough. Got a lot of my brothers and sisters killed, after betraying his team, and then nearly got everyone else killed for his selfishness. Died well, though, so I guess there’s that.”
…Was this a compliment or an insult? Captain Therrium had no idea, so he filled Fighti’s cup.
“I treat my sons like my crews: equally according to merit.”
“Oh, so you play favorites like my dad. I was never that important to him either.”
She beamed at him, and now Therrium grew really uncomfortable. He snapped.
“If Seborn’s in Liscor, I’ll make him an offer, then—”
“What? No, he’s gone. Left after all his team died. Most of them. Fought a huge Hag Queen. Didn’t run. The last half-Giant of Izril died, but he didn’t. Even my family thought it was a sad story. The Winter Solstice.”
“—Hag Queen? I saw some of the Winter Solstice, but Draugr—how tough is one of them? Are they really Gold-rank threats? What possessed him to risk his neck there?”
Fighti lay back on the beach.
“I’m drunk. What’s in this wine?”
“It’s fortified.”
“With what?”
“Rum. Go back to the Winter Solstice. No, wait. His team. He was running with some damn misfits, wasn’t he? Outcasts. Half-Freaks? They weren’t a good Gold-rank team, or so I h—”
Fighti kicked Therrium in the chest. She executed a somersault axe kick to his chest, and he stared at her.
“Don’t talk bad about that team. My dad joined them.”
“Hit me again and I will break that leg.”
Drunkenly, Fighti raised her fists and squared off with Therrium as Lamont and Chickenruler paled and began wading towards her. She glared.
“Your son—you don’t know him. You don’t know me. So you’re coming in with all these little gifts. Money. Hah. You weren’t there. Seborn could get me to waste any fleet he wants. You couldn’t get me to piss in a bottle. Except that one. I need to use the restroom.”
She took a swing at him, and he dodged it effortlessly. Therrium stood with a snarl.
“I’m no [Deckhand] to be spoken down to. I warn you once in good faith—”
She kicked sand at him. Captain Therrium grabbed her and lifted her up by one leg, upside-down, and felt his [Dangersense] go off. He stared at her as the drunk Fighti grinned at him, and he hesitated.
How the hell did my son meet these strange Goblins? Then someone poked him from behind. He swung around, snarling—
 
——
 
Sidney had a stick. She backed up when Therrium came around, but when he saw the girl’s face, he dropped Fighti.
“Girl. That hurts.”
Therrium ameliorated his tone only very slightly for the girl, but he did do it. It was a bad look to shout at a child, much less one whose story was known across Nombernaught. The [Survivor] backed up, trembling, and Therrium threw up a hand. Her lip was quivering dangerously.
“Don’t cry, damn it. Stop wailing or I’ll have half the crews annoying mine. Here. Have a drink.”
He held out a wine cup, and Sidney hesitated. It was a new Earther who strode forwards and slapped the cup out of Therrium’s eel-hand. He sighed.
I am going to make an example of one of this lot one day. However, this young woman he was also reluctant to war with. Because Malia was actually useful.
You didn’t mess with a [Thought Healer], so he glared at her. She glared back.
“Captain Therrium, you don’t offer wine to children!”
“Why not? It works.”
His reply stumped her long enough for him to pick up his bottle—it was too good to be left behind—and go stomping out of the beach. This was a pointless endeavor with the pests around.
Malia glared at him, then turned to the drunk Fightipilota.
“Miss? Miss Fighti?”
“Oh great, you’re multiplying. Shoo. I don’t want whatever it is. No, I’m not a pet, I don’t want to be bribed, I’m not telling you what it was, and I don’t want to hang out. Does that cover it?”
Fighti glared at the Earther, but Malia just put her hands behind her back.
“Miss…I’m very sorry to interrupt, but my class was telling me that I might be of use to you? I’m Malia, a [Thought Healer].”
She was new to her class and not trained, at least from Earth, but everything about Fighti screamed that Malia needed to talk to her. Well, a lot of people in Nombernaught had some kind of issue that’d benefit from time with a therapist. [Sailors] who’d seen too much at sea, Drowned Folk reconciling their taking of the Sea’s Gift or the form it took, all of Doroumata’s daughters…
Fighti blinked at Malia. Then pointed at her face.
“Me? I’m great. Couldn’t be better. Compared to the average person in my society, I’m amazing.”
Whether or not that was true, Malia had no idea. But before she could talk Fighti into coming to her office, the Drake took two steps forwards, then fell face-first into the sand.
Malia and Sidney turned, and Captain Therrium checked the bottle he had brought out. He grunted.
“Landlubbers.”
No ability to hold their alcohol.
 
——
 
Fighti’s head hurt like hell when she woke up with a sunburn, until they got her something for the hangover and the burn. That aside, she supposed she didn’t mind the Earthers—once she was sober, and a day or two of lazing by the beach did help.
Chickenruler and Nailren were sailing with Lamont out in the bay. They had invited Fighti, but she really did prefer to just rest at the moment. Assuming she actually got rest with all the unwanted company. Not just Drowned Folk wanting to thank her or chat, either.
Captain Therrium didn’t plague her again, but Lord Olvos did show up. Not just for her. He seemed to make a point of playing with Sidney, who took to the grandfatherly…grandfather who was all Human.
So did Haley, a [Squire] clearly enamored with Lord Olvos that he seemed to want nothing to do with. It was like a Hob trying to get rid of a clingy Goblin, which amused Fighti.
They had a few words over the time she spent there, mostly fending off the persistent Malia, and just recovering a bit more. Not about her nature or what had happened. Mostly, amusingly, Malia.
“Is she harassing you as well? She insists I visit her for ‘therapy’.”
“What’s that?”
“Lying in an office on a couch, discussing my feelings, and processing my grief. Telling her how I feel.”
Fighti made a gagging sound. Lord Olvos nodded.
“I have lost…everything. What need have I to explain it?”
“It’s for healing!”
Malia shouted, exasperated. Fighti had bribed Coldcream, and the Frost Wyvern was licking on a giant popsicle she’d had made and keeping Malia back with his tail. Every time she tried to run around, he’d just lumber over and block her with his body. Fighti called back.
“Who wants healing? Scars sexier. Sometimes, it’s better to bleed out!”
That stumped the young woman so much that she stood there until Coldcream flicked her into the surf. Lord Olvos nodded to Fightipilota.
“One should bear the grief and guilt.”
“Yep. Sadder the better. More weight.”
They nodded at each other, then both eyed the other and glanced away to Malia, who was swimming back towards them. Fighti coughed.
“Why didn’t you leave the New Lands?”
“It felt like giving up all that had been lost here. My granddaughter I was glad to see go. I will not return home. I will die here.”
Lord Olvos sat, wearing a button-up shirt and long pants, since beachwear was against his Terandrian sensibilities. Fighti opened her mouth.
Darn, looks like our killing the Sword Crabs didn’t fix him. Eh, it doesn’t, really. But was him wanting to die…? She coughed.
“Sounds like your granddaughter would be real sad if you died.”
“I don’t intend to if I can help it. I simply shall not go back. Not until I find something here. Something worth it all. If I do not, I will end here, as is fitting. An unmarked grave or none at all befits the failure of House Lanight.”
…Maybe he did need to talk to Malia. Fighti said as much.
“You sure you don’t need to speak to her?”
“I’m not the one who dove into the center of a nautiloid swarm.”
“Hey! I heard you were jousting them!”
“I had a Skill. You are young. You clearly need help more than I do.”
“I didn’t try to lance Sword Crabs for half a week! You go talk to her!”
“I am not in need of her services.”
“Well, neither am I.”
Both glared at each other. Malia, trying to edge around Coldcream, saw the Drake and [Lord] fighting, shoving each other towards her. She eyed them, then smiled and let them continue fighting.
Making friends was part of her therapy.
 
——
 
In the end, they had to go simply by expedience; when Fighti summoned her plane in secret one day and it was able to get off the ground, she knew they would make the flight back. So she told Chickenruler.
It wasn’t easy to just depart, though. Shadeward Doroumata was actually one of the biggest objectors. She had been seeing to the repairs of Nombernaught and was very unhappy not to have talked to Fighti longer.
“We would like to host you far longer, as you deserve. It is clear your city of Floodwaters could be a valuable ally. On behalf of Nombernaught, I invite you to stay.”
Doroumata was a keen observer, but, uh, her best overtures of friendship were still more scary than welcoming. As for Therrium, he seemed like his face hurt when he tried to smile. He hadn’t tried to make nice after the beach incident, but he also agreed they should stay.
It was Nailren who bailed Fighti and Chickenruler out of the issue.
“I believe these two must report back, but as they do visit Nombernaught regularly, I asked to be taken with them. I trust I am not intruding in your city, Drowned Folk? Your generosity is mighty, and I would like to present gifts, if now is appropriate.”
Doroumata hesitated and blinked at Nailren as Therrium sighed.
“Yes, gifts. From a Gnoll, we accept, of course. We have no bad blood between us and the tribes. We shall reciprocate.”
He clearly expected to exchange some meaningless trinkets. When Nailren produced his map, Therrium’s eyes locked on it.
“You have a map of the New Lands?”
“Just one section of it and some observations about the New Lands. For instance, the phenomenon of ghosts, yes? And places where plants grow. I would gladly gift this to the Drowned Folk. Would you share anything you have learned?”
Doroumata shot a quick glance at Therrium, and then she smiled at Nailren.
“A capable [Explorer] indeed. This is not the venue for this. A ship’s deck—or pub, in Nombernaught. We must have you with drink in hand before you tell us your exploits.”
“Eh, it not that much—”
Chickenruler began before Fightipilota and Nailren elbowed him. Then the [Wyvern Rider] clearly realized he could get free drinks and shut up.
 
——
 
That was how Fighti found herself in a room with no less than three hundred [Captains], [First Mates], and just interested Drowned Folk, drinking and telling them what she’d seen. It wasn’t so formal as a speech; people did go respectfully quiet, but there was a murmur of voices. And there was a ‘lobster’, all buttered, she ate as Nailren and Chickenruler helped talk.
“So you’ve seen more explorers? We’ve seen few that made it this far west! But a few—yes, a few of our folk who sailed across the coastlines have met others.”
A [Captain] with a jaunty hat called out as she drained half a mug. Nailren’s ears perked up.
“Which ones did you meet? We ran into starving Drakes as well as others who had endured hardship well enough. Many are suffering even close to the border of the New Lands.”
He described the Silver Swords’ plight, then the Pallassians, and the Drowned Folk muttered. The female Captain was half-Shark and spat some foam onto the floor.
“Landfolk. We’ve kept to where we can fish or stocked up going inland. All that damn rock and sand…it hurts the feet! We’ll remember that ere we go. As for who we met? Well, we ran into a curious group of Drakes! Not like the bastards we feared—”
Someone nudged her, because more of said Drakes were sitting there. The [Captain] flushed.
“I meant—not Walled City Drakes like those of Zeres! These were friendly as could be! Sat on ponies and had slings. They were Yodellers, the lot!”
Nailren grinned.
“You mean Yoldenites.”
“Aye, that sounds right!”
There was general laughter, and someone tossed a cup at the [Captain] who was such a poor narrator of events. But then Nailren stood up.
“I do have a story for all those present, one almost as serious as the hunger and privation in the New Lands. There is danger and death. But you know that, surely. I must warn you, though, as I consider the Drowned Folk friends, though I cannot not speak for my people. As an explorer, one who would call your people friend—let me tell you a story of ghosts. It is no false tale, before you laugh. I have some small proof.”
There was a gleam in his eyes, and the Drowned Folk obligingly listened. Nailren was clever; Fighti grinned as she saw [Captains] rolling their eyes, but Shadeward Doroumata lowered the light levels in the room, giving it a spooky ambiance. Everyone listened to Nailren’s tale of hauntings, which was a good ghost story, but clearly, many thought it was an exaggeration.
Which was why Nailren didn’t reveal the presence of Spoony until the end of his tale. She had been having a grand time blowing cold air across people’s backs or moving utensils around subtly. But when he theatrically reached for a drink to wet his throat, she lifted the tankard and brought it over to him.
Jaws dropped, and every head turned to Doroumata. When she shook her head, indicating that was no magic—Fightipilota saw veterans of the sea go dead white or toss salt over their shoulders. They reached for lucky trinkets, and she realized—seafolk were very superstitious.
They were also a bit of romantics at heart. Fighti’s description of hungry Drake children had half the room swearing at the idiot Drakes of Pallass, the other half tearing up.
Bloodthirsty [Pirates] were soft as kittens after three drinks or so, and there was something here that reminded her of Nailren. A feeling of a people yearning for a great adventure.
When Nailren described the tower they’d seen, or the other landmarks, hinting of great adventure, the Drowned Folk sat up.
“The Crossroads of Izril exist! To the krakens with caution! I’ll take my crew on land and damn hunger or danger! No disrespect to Nombernaught, but we’re losing our march on landfolk to caution!”
The [Captain] of Salt’s Bath stood up after the sixth round or so, and a furious argument broke out over ‘crewing together’ to make sure they had a hold on this area, or going it alone to find what was out there. Other Drowned Folk came over to ask Fighti how dangerous she really thought it was out there, or if Nailren had heard about the attack on the Adventurer’s Haven.
Drowned Folk didn’t have much experience with land-based undead, so they couldn’t judge how dangerous such monsters were. But mostly…
They wanted to know about The Wandering Inn. And who should be there to explain that and make introductions but the most self-satisfied little witch in the world.
Nanette Weishart had a cup of goat’s milk in hand, and while Mrsha appeared twice, the little witch was allowed to stay up late and speak to the fascinated Drowned Folk.
“Fightipilota, you’re so lucky to see the New Lands. I can’t even leave the inn without supervision. And Captain Nailren’s seen so much—you know, no one’s got any idea of what’s happening in the New Lands? Most people aren’t sure where their friends have gone.”
Nailren sombered, and Fighti bit her tongue. The Gnoll spoke gravely.
“Many groups are lost. I saw an entire room in Goisedall devoted to searching for the missing. This is not a safe land, no, Nanette. But I will be back to it the moment we leave. I cannot quit, you see. I suppose I’m cursed.”
He turned, flashing a toothy grin, and the Drowned Folk probably fell a bit in love with that damn Gnoll. Fighti certainly did for the spirit of a Redfang she saw in his fearless spirit. And Nanette’s eyes shone. She glanced at Doroumata and Therrium, and the two older leaders of Drowned Folk watched the younger generation sailing towards danger with a kind of forlorn envy. Remembering something they had once embraced wholeheartedly.
 
——
 
—Of course, they began to sing after that. It began with the Drowned Folk asking Nailren to teach them his people’s song. That was how Fightipilota, Chickenruler, a drunk Coldcream poking his head through a window, Nailren, Nanette, and a room full of Drowned Folk sang Great Plains Sing.
Then—the Drowned Folk taught Fightipilota their song. Land’s Farewell.
 
“I slipped off the deck, and there I drowned
Now I will never leave her
We left land to be born at sea
And we’ll never truly leave her…”
 
Fighti hadn’t known that the Drowned Folk had a song like that. She sang with a chorus of hundreds, filling the echoing ship’s hull turned into a pub, and the song spread into the street as Drowned Folk stopped carousing or going about their business. They turned and joined in, turning their faces up to sing that anthem of their people.
The [Fighter Pilot] turned to Chickenruler as they sang, and both Goblins’ faces were filled with a curious emotion.
Envy. They wished, in that moment, they had a song to share that defined their people. Something they could sing as one. Fighti took another drink, and the courage burned its way down to her stomach. Then she sang louder.
 
——
 
Those damn Goblins weren’t so bad. True, Captain Therrium had a splitting headache the next morning, but he just took some Hangover Tonic and was right as rain.
“So you’re flying back to the New Lands, eh? Well, for all the materials you’re welcome in Nombernaught. For bailing us out when we were under siege, you’re at least honored guests three more times.”
He was straight-faced as he went to see the two odd Goblins off the next day. Luminary Hisark winced, but Therrium believed in delivering the real value of a favor, not some namby-pampy about ‘always grateful’.
Fighti grinned at him.
“Lilbrasi—our boss—probably wants to hold onto any favors or use them later. So we gotta pay for drinks next time. But we’ll bring more metal and stuff. You got a wish list?”
“Steel’s fine. But if you have anything better, or glue, good glue—”
Therrium rattled off a list, and she nodded. Plenty of busybodies were also hanging around, [Captains] who were too damn busy to help around the city but wanted to talk to the exciting explorers and fliers. Therrium pointedly ignored their attempts to break into the conversation until someone sidled up behind him.
“Eh, Captain Therrium. Got something for you.”
“What? I’m talking to our guests.”
He glared at Etaiv; there was such a thing as courtesy, even with [Pirates]! But the [First Mate] was excited. She handed him something, and Therrium read.
His brows shot up. He handed the note back to Etaiv.
“No. That’s stupid.”
“I swear I double-checked it, Captain. It’s no joke!”
He saw Nailren glance over as Fightipilota supervised the loading up of her Wyvern. She was taking mostly seafood back since her people apparently loved it and the Chest of Holding could preserve the fat tuna, swordfish, and other choice cuts. But Therrium was distracted.
“This is the biggest damn news…and we can’t do a thing about it because I have to serve as Captain of the City!”
He cursed and almost crumbled the ball of paper up. The news would reach everyone soon, and he just bet Rasea would take the Illuminary and go hunting. He hadn’t heard from that menace in a while, actually…she was probably plotting her next big adventure.
“Anything interesting, Captain Therrium Guy?”
Fighti grinned at him, visibly curious. He was about to tell her it was none of her damn business when he reconsidered. If he couldn’t have it, he might as well curry some goodwill. So he glanced at Nailren, triggered a spell on one of his rings, and beckoned the trio over.
“This is fresh intelligence my crews picked up. No good to me since I can’t take my ship out and hunt—but since we’re all friends and allies here, I’ll cut you in on the action. You just remember that. And if you ever want a place on a crew, Fightipilota, I’ll offer you a good position.”
Her eyes lit up, and she laughed.
“Eh, you wouldn’t like me when you get to know me.”
He met her eyes.
“I like what I see so far.”
Especially the flying fighter plane or whatever the hell that was. She hesitated, and he nodded to himself. Easier to charm than the damn Isle of Goblins lot. He’d remember that and put a word in Doroumata’s ear. After all, what benefited Nombernaught benefited him. Too many of the other Underseas Crews didn’t get what this could mean for them all. Anyways, he proffered the piece of paper.
“This is from our contacts, which means it’s so fresh it’s still moving. No one else will know…for now. But by the time we can sail out, it’ll be public knowledge. If you share it, best do it now while it’s real value. Here’s the catch: you remember that Village of the Dead raid?”
Fighti tilted her head, and Nailren nodded.
“Of course.”
“Remember, eh, that damn auction where items were being sold for ludicrous sums? The thing that won it all, the two million-gold bounty.”
“The Helm of Fire.”
Nailren’s eyes fixed on the piece of paper. Therrium grinned with savage irony; he’d bid on that damn helm himself and been sorely mad when it was taken.
“It’s missing. It never reached Chandrar and the Emperor of Sands. Damn thing is in the New Lands.”
There was silence, and Fighti raised a hand.
“Er, I forget what that—”
“No.”
Nailren was visibly shaken. But Captain Therrium was chuckling even as he clenched his eel-hand.
“Oh yes. Think about it. When the Helm of Fire was bid on, that was two and a half million gold pieces that couldn’t be teleported to the Emperor of Sands. All in the form of a tiny little helmet.”
That confused Nailren, and he tilted his head, remembering the dossiers he liked to study.
“Doesn’t the Emperor of Sands have a Skill that allows him to transport things across the world instantly?”
Therrium appreciated a smart man and nodded, a twinkle in his eyes.
“Aye, so he does. But d’you think he was keen on dropping anchor on that much money in a single transaction?”
Knowing what he did of kingdoms and treasuries, Nailren would have been astonished if even the Chandrarian empire had that much to spend in a single moment. He bared his teeth.
“Ah, so he must have paid in installments.”
“Very traditional, but it means the Helm had to come without Skill, and without Skill, you can’t transport Relic-grade magic easy. Too far, and the Archmage of Memory didn’t have his precious new teleportation spells up. So that meant a ship, a Courier. With every [Thief] in the world knowing its value? Even the Courier of Izril would have been dead after ten miles if she were in her prime.”
That made sense. Nailren nodded, eyes flicking left and right.
“So what did the Merchant’s Guild do? Ah—they must have held onto it.”
“Right. Held onto it, sent out decoys, and bided their time until they could send the right ship that no one was looking hard at. The Emperor of Sands probably said he had it and then they’d slide it over, nice and easy. Well, here’s the thing: the ship never got there.”
Fighti grinned.
“Ooh. Someone jumped it? Didn’t know what they got?”
Therrium was chuckling darkly.
“Even better. You’d think that, but I bet the Merchant’s Guild had more [Assassins] and high-level [Guards] on that ship than you could match with anything but one of my ships. It was heading straight for Chandrar, disguised as some normal ship. Only thing is, we know which ships are the Merchant’s Guild’s finest, even in disguise. This one was called the Magnificent Oyster.”
Nailren groaned.
“Oh no, I’ve heard of that one. It’s such a terrible play-on-words.”
Etaiv rolled her eyes, but with great anticipation.
“[Merchants] just have to tell you what’s up. They think they’re so clever. Tell them the rest, Captain.”
Therrium strung them out just a second more and then smiled.
“Just before winter ended last year, the Oyster left harbor and came down from the north, hugging the coastline on the western edge. Normal routes these days, and safe enough if you skirt the Hivelands. It was going along, casual as you please, with none of us the wiser when something happened. The only reason it’s news now is because the Magnificent Oyster was declared destroyed.”
“Destroyed? So that means the Helm of Fire’s sunk.”
Fighti protested, but Nailren was thinking.
“No…if it was stolen, the Merchant’s Guild would have put a hell of a bounty out, and the Empire of Sands would be furious. They may already be furious, but they didn’t announce it, nor did anyone advertise the fact the Relic was stolen, which they might. No one said a word. Which meant a Kraken got it or…”
He stared at the piece of paper. Then at Therrium, and his eyes narrowed.
“Wait. Where was the ship when it was destroyed?”
With a flourish, Captain Therrium pointed, and every head turned.
“It was sailing out over yonder. Casual as you please when one’ve the Bloodtear Pirates ships hit it. I bet they didn’t know what they had. Nor did they take the Oyster down; the fighting sunk the Bloodtear’s ship. But the Oyster was damned too, and where could it land as it sank?”
Fighti, Chickenruler, and Nailren turned…and they stared at the New Lands of Izril. Therrium could just imagine it. Bloodtear Pirates—was it when they were mustering for the attack on the Terandrians? Or just chance?
It didn’t matter. He went on, voice low, even merry.
“Now, the Oyster landed with crew and cargo intact. That’s certain. The Merchant’s Guild, doubtless, sent a transport ship to pick up cargo, but you’d head inland after a rough landing, to avoid Bloodtear reinforcements if any were about. Here’s the thing: neither the Oyster’s crew, nor the transport which landed to search for them ever left the New Lands. They vanished. Setting up camp? Trying to get to civilization? Or did the crew think to take the treasure and scarper?”
He thought he knew what had killed them, though. The land itself. He chuckled as Fighti’s jaw dropped. So, Therrium pointed.
“The Magnificent Oyster’s somewhere out there. And the Merchant’s Guild must have been searching, but they just posted this very casually.”
He showed them the note. It was a bounty, a decently-sized one, for anyone who spotted a certain object in the New Lands.
The Magnificent Oyster. What a name. And like that—Nailren’s eyes lit up.
“It’s there.”
“Ripe for the taking. If you find it. If you find it and it’s not still guarded, or there aren’t trap spells on it. If you know to look for it.”
Therrium was thinking. Who might run into such a shipwreck and not know where to look? The Merchant’s Guild was counting on people coming back from the New Lands, none the wiser, but his people had put two and two together. If he understood what they’d been transporting…
Fighti’s eyes lit up.
“Maybe we’ll see it when we fly back! We can see a lot from the air!”
“I bet they sent Djinni. Unless the New Lands kills them. Fliers and vision spells, certainly. It must not be visible, or maybe something covered it. Either way…I’ll pass along the information. I know a tribe who might figure out something. Thank you, Captain Therrium.”
The man waved it off.
“In a month’s time, we’ll search for it as well, but it’s no good to us here. I’ll pass it on to the [Captains] whom I respect. It’s a race, and may anyone but fools win. Anything else before you head off?”
Fighti was hesitating.
“Um, well, we’re going back…and you’ve given us lots of good food. Like the tuna. Especially the tuna. I’ll eat half of it, and I know my tr—people will love it. But—”
Everyone turned to her, and she was staring back the way they’d come.
“Maybe…maybe we won’t get any tuna back to Floodwaters. And if we do, I mean…we have one Chest of Holding, but you’ve got magic. And Coldcream can carry a lot. So maybe…could we take more stuff? For a bit of the favor?”
Therrium frowned.
“You can have as much fish as you want; it’s not like it’s in short supply. But most containers will break before you get to the other side of the New Lands, right?”
She nodded.
“Yah. But the people who might need it, they’d get it.”
Captain Therrium stood there, utterly blank, as Nailren grinned, suddenly, and Nanette clapped her hands and went to air-hug Fighti. Chickenruler grinned, and even old Doroumata gave a nod of great approval. Therrium didn’t get it, even when the other [Captains] did and raced off to grab the best and most appropriate things for the effort. Someone had to explain to him and Etaiv what Fightipilota meant.
After all—they were [Pirates].
[Pirates] didn’t do charity.
 
——
 
There were many reasons to do it. Goodness. But if that didn’t appeal to a certain [Depth Captain], then other good reasons.
For one—style. Or just politics. What told people you were rich in the one thing they wanted—food—than a delivery like this? It put you on the map, it didn’t cost you much, and…
It was a good story. That sold Captain Therrium most of all, so that was how Fightipilota and Chickenruler took yet another detour. They flew back the way they’d come, and the groups that had seen them before saw the lone Frost Wyvern flying again.
“There they are! Hey! Heeeeey! Down here!”
Lorent looked up as Pallassians went pounding out of their tents. They were shouting for Garuda to get up; the Frost Wyvern wasn’t landing, instead flying straight over their camp! Garuda darted up, but half were slow, and the ones that went up came screaming back down.
“They’re not stopping!”
“What? Didn’t they get anything to trade? Order them to come down!”
The Drake [Expedition Leader] was panicking. Lorent carefully sharpened a dagger and saw the people waving, screaming upwards.
It is not their job to save us. Any more than it was the Wings of Pallass’. The [Sharpener] nicked his fingers in a moment of distraction and watched the blood dripping onto the whetstone. He glanced up, once, as a little Drake girl clutching a dagger in the way a Goblin had showed her stared upwards.
And…he remembered that Gnoll had been at The Wandering Inn. The [Sharpener] thought of the [Innkeeper] he was still proud to have given a working knife. He thought of the kind of people that Erin Solstice loved.
Perhaps that was why, as the Pallassians went running after the Frost Wyvern, screaming and begging and then cursing the departing Wyvern, it was Lorent who glanced up again. On nothing but familiarity. Friendship. Faith, of a kind.
So it was he who saw something drifting down slowly. The [Sharpener] carefully put down his dagger and got up. It was…
A strange object. He didn’t understand it, at first, until he thought to the icon of Pallass.
“The Flying Gnoll. The Wind Runner.”
The white canvas was being pulled up as air caught in the parachute, arresting the descent of the object it was attached to. A simple, beautiful contraption designed by a [Fighter Pilot].
And what did this parachute bring down into the center of the Pallassian camp? Why, nothing but a single object carefully balanced by cords.
A…chest. A treasure chest, really, with that old barnacle look on half-rusted metal, because Drowned Folk loved the appearance of such things.
Lorent was first to reach it. But one of the children had also spotted the chest and ran over. He squatted down as the Drake girl stuck a claw in her mouth.
[Thumbclaw: Minor Nourishment]. A [Survivor]’s Skill. Lorent glanced at her wide eyes, and he read what was on the chest. Then he lifted it. The [Sharpener] grunted, and the girl gasped softly, the only sound she’d made in a long time.
“Chest of Holding.”
But the magic…Lorent stared up at the Wyvern, then over his shoulder.
“It’ll run out of magic soon. Call everyone back. We need to unload it before it explodes.”
He told the girl, and she ran. But then she darted back to stare at the chest, and Lorent gazed skywards. He wondered…how many more such chests the Frost Wyvern was carrying. Could you carry that many without them exploding? But surely, they’d found a way. Because he doubted they were the only ones.
After all, there was a note too. As Pallassians came running back, they stopped and stared at the contents of the magic chest.
It was filled with food. Seafood, mostly, but also supplies. Fish oil, salt, everything that Drowned Folk could easily produce. Even fish bones; apparently, you could make a bread out of it, and it was fairly nutritious and good in soup stocks.
A bounty of food for the hungry. Lorent sat back on his heels and let out a breath he’d been holding for months. Just for a second, then he went back to his dagger and began sharpening it. They couldn’t lose their edge. But…
 
——
 
The note. The note did all the explaining.
Of course, Fightipilota and Chickenruler could have just landed and handed over a chest without needing a note. But they might have feared being mugged for the rest of what Coldcream was carrying.
More likely, the two Goblins were just far too shy and embarrassed to accept the gratitude personally. The message was written on each chest, though they’d customized this particular one for the Pallassians.
Just one amusing thing. Due to the way the chests had been rushed out, Captain Therrium had tasked a [Scribe] with writing all the notes, which they’d done and gotten things 99% right. It was just that when they’d come to names, they’d heard ‘Chickenruler’, and well—names being names, this was the result.
 
To the explorers of the New Lands:
Nombernaught delivers a gift from its harbors. The Drowned City waits on the southwest of the New Lands. Come to trade, stay as friends. This gift is made to all with goodwill as the only price. 
On behalf of Shadeward Doroumata, Luminary Hisark, the City Captain, and the City of Floodwaters by Fighterpiloty, [Explorer] Nailren, and the Ruler of Chickens, we wish you fortune and success.
 
PS: If there are children in danger, send them to our safer harbors or we’ll keelhaul the lot of you if they die.
 
——
 
It was pretty funny to realize Goblins were too shy to accept being lauded for a noble act. No one had thought of it. A city of intelligent people and Fightipilota was the one person who’d thought to feed hungry people.
It wasn’t hilarious, but Nailren had chuckled about it. He didn’t think it mandated eighteen minutes of nonstop laughter, let alone the third time it happened. But then, he wasn’t the older Human man pointing at Fightipilota’s red ears and laughing.
Lord Olvos Lanight kept laughing, even when Chickenruler and Fightipilota began to huck things at him. Yet, the two embarrassed Goblins didn’t seem to realize that it wasn’t really just amusement that had the old man in stitches.
To Nailren’s ears, there was a note of hysteria in the laughter that had nothing to do with the heights. The old [Lord] was wheezing for breath. Laughing. Like someone having a nervous breakdown.
Perhaps, because he had insisted, begged to be taken along, to see…something.
What? Had he expected to see Fighti and Chickenruler dump all the food in a pile and fly off the moment they were out of sight of Nombernaught?
Nailren wasn’t sure, but he thought the obvious truth had broken something in the old man. Like someone who had tried to test the obvious, again and again, and been forced to acknowledge that reality was not what he had believed it to be…Lord Olvos lay there, weakly, staring down at the New Lands of Izril.
Nailren leaned over to Fightipilota, who was grumbling as she sat, red-faced.
“Stupid old man. We should have left him.”
“I think this is good for him. Well, in a way. It certainly keeps him from having to make an Earther his [Squire].”
She considered this and sighed.
“Yeah. I guess that’s a good deed. Oh—hey, look at that.”
They were passing over something below. A strange sight that pulled Lord Olvos up as well. Chickenruler slowed and almost passed on, but Nailren and Fighti, even Lord Olvos, shouted at him that he must land.
After a second, the Frost Wyvern did. Despite all Rags’ rules and regulations…they landed, and the quartet stared at something in the New Lands they had never seen nor dreamed of.
“Oh. So this is what these lands held.”
Lord Olvos sat, crosslegged, and Fightipilota rubbed at her eyes.
There it sat, just past the Eternal Grasslands. The yellow tufts of grass even crept up half the valley where earth had heaved itself upwards, forming a huge basin with raised dirt edges, like two hands cupped together. The yellow grass gave way to regular green, blooming with tall wildflowers; butterflies spiraled upwards in a cloud.
They flew together in a double helix, dodging a school of fish, who swam past the butterflies, mouths open. A few leapt up, snaring the frightened insects, before plopping down in the tube of water that carried them upwards then around the valley in a spiral.
Fish and water. Floating. A disbelieving Frost Wyvern stuck out his tongue, and a red carp swam straight onto it. Coldcream chewed the fish down, then opened his mouth and stuck his head in another vortex of water swirling upwards in defiance of gravity.
“Tribes. Did Kishkeria make this? Or is this just natural gravity magic? Magicore in the earth…?”
Nailren’s voice trailed off, and he knelt there as the rush of a river overtook all sound. Then a shadow covered him, and the Gnoll peered up. Above his head, a shark swam, yet the Gnoll was safe from the roaming predator of the sea.
He sat in a tunnel below the waters, a landbridge that let one walk under the lake that flowed overhead. Fightipilota and Chickenruler walked out of the tunnel, shielding their heads, afraid that the waters would come rushing down at any moment. Instead, the water spiraled skywards until you could see a few droplets hovering just over the valley’s edge. There the magic carrying the water up failed, and it rained down in a gentle spray, leaving rainbows.
The fish swam in this unique ecosystem, seemingly content and unbothered as gravity bowed to this strange place. No one spoke as Fighti stuck a hand into a backwards-waterfall. The flow was so strong that when she placed a rock in it and held on, it carried her up twenty feet before she let go. She watched the rock swirling into the sky.
She landed next to an old man, who stood in the center of the strange wonderland. Water was running down his battered mithril armor and into his eyes. He watched as the sunlight entered the valley and turned the blue waters green, then orange in places. Fighti looked down and saw, buried among the valley, magical crystals shining with the colors reflected above.
She flicked some water droplets from her hand and watched them float in front of her, then fall skywards and come shooting down in a rushing torrent that moved around them. A wave that played with the ground and then spun away.
“Hey, old guy. You okay?”
He blinked and seemed to breathe only then. Lord Olvos Lanight cleared his throat.
“I think…we have come across a wonder. Miss Fightipilota?”
“Yeah, Lord Olvos?”
The old man stared up at the river flowing above his head. And he wiped at his watery eyes.
“I…think I’ve found the place House Lanight would have settled. Someone should preserve this. I would have travelled a thousand miles to see this as a boy. Someday, people will come far and wide to see this strange valley. Did—didn’t you mention there was a team searching for work?”
Fighti had all but forgotten. Nailren’s ears perked up. He nodded.
“The Silver Swords, yes.”
Lord Olvos nodded as well.
“If you would go on—would you send anyone looking for work here? I think I have a job for them. No, I’ll have to call to Nombernaught for my horse, a flag. I’ll stay here.”
He wanted to claim this place? It mystified the Goblin for a moment until she realized this was how other species did such things. Put down a flag, as if he had made this spot or could just own it…
Fighti turned to Nailren, and an objection rose up in her throat. Wasn’t this land for Gnolls? Lord Olvos followed Fighti’s gaze, and guilt crossed his face.
“Is that—do you object, sir?”
He addressed Nailren. The Gnoll was gazing up at the magical wonderland, but when they looked at him, he just shrugged.
“I am not all Gnolls. Could I forbid you from claiming this spot, Lord Olvos? Would it even work? The New Lands are vast. Surely, there are a thousand such wonders. Regardless, who could hold this spot? Not I. Only Plain’s Eye if they chose to come this far. Do you intend to keep this place as it is?”
“Unspoiled, yes.”
Nailren nodded and turned his head back upwards.
“Then claim it. But do not ask me for permission again.”
The [Lord] of distant Terandria lowered his head in acknowledgement and rested a moment. He slowly sat on the ground, and Fightipilota opened her mouth, then saw the biggest fish she’d ever seen in her life breach the floating bubble of water in the center of the valley. A miniature sea. Wordlessly, she sat down too. Lord Olvos turned to her.
“I will pay you, of course. I will need guards. People to find this place. A map.”
“Mhm. In a minute, old guy, sure. I want to see this first.”
Then she marvelled at another wonder of the New Lands and wished she had time to explore it. But someone had to fly.
 
——
 
And that was that. There Fightipilota went to drop Nailren off at Woll’s Waystation and to bring gifts from above to those who needed a little miracle.
Another day, another adventure in the New Lands. Like a river that defied gravity, a wonder never seen in any part of the natural world before this.
Or a tower guarded by a Golem. Or—or someone giving food to little, starving Drakes. Something to make you cry with injustice, but also cry because goodness was done.
And no one knew about it. Some people had even forgotten about the New Lands altogether! Wasn’t that crazy? They went about their lives and barely thought about the people suffering in another part of the world, another world entirely.
It was not right. It was the way the world was, but, manifestly, it was not the way the world should be. And it grated on the witness to Fightipilota’s heroism, the songs sung between Gnolls and Drowned Folk—but arguably, not even most Drowned Folk or Gnolls had heard about.
It rankled Nanette’s beret. And she was wearing a beret today. She had on arm bangles, a flowery top with literal flowers on it, and in defiance of the wet weather, bright yellow shorts and clogs.
Mrsha the Mildly Appalled took one look at Nanette over breakfast and held up a card.
You’re doing this on purpose, aren’t you?
“I’m sure I don’t know what you’re talking about, Mrsha.”
Uh huh. Did you enjoy yourself last night with the Drowned Folk? Some of us have school, you know.
Nanette turned a smile on Mrsha that spelled trouble.
“As a matter of fact, Mrsha, I did! And I wish everyone could hear about it!”
You could write into the Liscorian Gazette. They’re a bit boring with all this election nonsense.
Mrsha chewed on some breakfast cereal as Nanette scowled.
“I thought about that, but it’s too slow! And I don’t like writing like you do, Mrsha. Plus, it’s just for Liscor! This is something bigger! You know what? I’m going to do something far more exciting.”
Okay. Some of us have school, you know.
“It’s not my fault you’re in school.”
Nanette had cordially refused to be enrolled in school, because she was a bit too old, and also, because she was a witch and had plenty of education from the other witches. Lyonette had thus far lost that fight handily, so Nanette had plenty of free time.
That was how she ended up lugging an old plush armchair from the World’s Eye Theatre, one of the tables, a lantern, and a bunch of Yelroan’s paper and ink into one of the inn’s spare rooms. Lyonette, of course, noticed Nanette trying to heave an armchair down the corridor.
“Nanette, dear, are you, um, redecorating?”
“Just…working…on a side project, Lyonette! Don’t mind me!”
The [Princess] hesitated, but she knew that Nanette hated being helped. So she turned to Sir Dalimont, who discreetly lifted one corner of the armchair for Nanette. The girl glared as the [Princess] waved.
“Well, just let us know if you need something else. Er…Colfa and I are seeing about making the choir a regular thing. And I’m sure the [Witches] in Riverfarm have time for a lesson. And Rheirgest’s [Necromancers] might love some tea and be willing to teach magic or Master Hexel give another lecture on good architecture!”
Nanette ignored all these friendly, helpful things she could be doing. And it was a sign of her stubbornness that Lyonette included learning necromancy on the positive activities she hoped Nanette would try.
After getting the room mostly in order, and finding a piece of wood and writing ‘Nanette’s Workroom, Keep Out!’, Nanette wiped her brows and then put her hands on her hips.
“I know I need…something. Darn. I don’t have the magic for this, and I doubt even Witch Califor did. There’s no help for it. Archmage Valeterisa!”
She hammered on the door to the Archmage’s rooms, but Valeterisa was out in the High Passes building her academy. Damn! Just when Nanette needed help!
She tried Montressa’s rooms next, but the younger [Mage] must have been with her master. Which left…
Mage Bezale opened her door and stared down at the little girl with her hands on her hips.
“Mage Bezale, I’d like a favor, if I may?”
“Er…”
“I can pay!”
The Minotauress was not immune to the promises of gold. When she heard Nanette out and had finished scratching her head, she had a very sensible suggestion.
“Why not just use…an empty song crystal, the kind the Singer of Terandria uses? They record everything at a very, very high fidelity. They have to; you just record until it’s filled. And then you can copy it, transport it, all very simple. I can teach you the basic spells.”
And that way I don’t have to deal with whatever this is. Bezale even had a few empty song crystals she’d used to make contraband recordings of the Players of Celum with. She handed Nanette a few, accepted a lot of gold in return that the girl had for some reason, and shut the door.
Nanette ran off, delighted! She only had to find one more thing…
Calescent was a far more understanding person. When he heard her out, he rummaged around the kitchen and found a little egg holder for her that could fit the fist-sized song crystal with a few alterations.
Like a hammer and some pliers for bending. Nanette was done just before lunch, so she brought the makeshift stand for the song crystal into her new room and decided she needed a pillow because she was a bit too short in the armchair to sit at the right height on the table.
She was busy writing some notes out, preparing herself, when there was a knock at the door.
“Nanette, sweetie? Would you like lunch?”
“I’m busy, Lyonette! Thank you!”
“Oh. Well…how about a tray of some Drathian sushi? Calescent said you were talking all about it last night, and he’s made some for everyone.”
“I…suppose I could have some.”
Nanette got up reluctantly and opened the door. Lyonette tried to peer inside.
“Everything going well?”
“Yes, thank you! I’ll show you when I have something to show!”
Nanette shut the door and took her tray to the table. She broke the little chopsticks included with the tray and began to nibble on the sushi after a few misses with the instruments. Then she brightened up.
This was the life. Nanette activated the song crystal and cleared her throat. Then, after a few false starts, she began to speak in a clear voice as she leaned over the impromptu microphone. Not like she’d seen Drassi do, which was loudly and trying to get everyone’s attention, but more informally.
Like how Nanette felt she’d want to tell someone.
“Testing, testing, one, two, three, four—ahem. This is Nanette Weishart of The Wandering Inn. I’m your witch of the hour, and I’d like to bring some news to your attention that no one seems to know about. The New Lands of Izril. I suppose no one’s got news from there, but I have my means, and I have a story to share that no one’s aware of yet!”
She took another bite of sushi and chewed and swallowed it before going on.
“Would you believe no one’s flying around the New Lands? No one with sense, according to everyone there. There are monsters in the air—flying nests of spiders, and apparently, there’s a huge winter area in the New Lands that moves! But it’s no weather phenomenon or rogue Winter Sprites; it’s a super-monster. But first things first. I’ve just learned there’s an outpost in the New Lands. They call it Woll’s Waystation, and it may not be much, but they’ve got free tea!”
Her eyes were sparkling. Nanette had a bunch of notes, but she was mostly ad-libbing the words. She wanted to tell people about what she’d seen!
Everything from Woll to Fightipilota flying by air to important information like Nailren’s Sea Gardens and how welcoming Drowned Folk could be and the nautiloid attack! This was the perfect way to do it.
After all, she just had to get this song crystal recorded, patch out any ‘ums’ or ‘ers’ she made, and her chewing sushi, and then she could show Mrsha, Hethon, and Sammial, and she bet Drassi would be interested in this.
Not that this was Wistram News Network stuff. Could you copy this? Nanette wondered if she could get a Runner to sell this somewhere. She thought it was mighty interesting.
And it was something those darn Earthers hadn’t thought of once! Smugly, the witch chewed on more sushi. She just had to come up with a good name for it.
It was like…an informational broadcast. Or a saved recording.
A savecast. No, that was stupid. Information in a pod! Podcast?
Eugh, even worse. She was a witch, so obviously…it was a Witch’s Tale! Yes, that was just perfect. Nanette beamed, and she went on.
“This just in: if you’ve been in the New Lands long, apparently you might owe a debt of favor to some fliers who were doing all they could to help people hit by the mana drain effect. The Wings of Pallass! Captain Bevussa and her team were sighted giving assistance nonstop, but the air’s deadly. Only one Frost Wyvern’s flying right now, and they’ve been through a tale. But where was I? Oh yes. Woll’s Waystation isn’t much to look at; the walls are dirt, ten feet high, and the roof leaks. I imagine it must smell terrible because all the horses are standing in one corner of the courtyard! You pay a Gnoll two coppers for him to hold them for you—his poor nose! But it’s the only place that exists, and Woll himself is such a character…”
 
[Podcaster Class obtained!]
[Podcaster Level 2!]
[Skill – Soothing Voice Obtained!]
[Skill – Slipless Tongue Obtained!]
[Skill – Superior Recording Quality Obtained!]
 
Later that night, a witch sat up in bed and raced to hammer on Joseph’s door. When he started laughing at her, she threw a huge fit.

10.65 (2026-05-23)

Izril was changing. Everyone always claimed that, just like how they claimed the ‘old days’ were better, where everything was cheaper and simpler—probably because they’d been younger back then.
Whoever they were. But it was also true that Izril was changing. In ways so fast and strange it hurt to see happen. Normalcy was dying, change stood over its grave, and surely it was allowed to mourn that.
Normalcy could be nice. So long as normal was acceptable. But sometimes you had to look back and…see it again.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss glanced back over his shoulder on the way to Dig Site A. The Wall Lord was sitting on horseback, a prime stallion from the City of Gems raised on the best magical grasses and trained for combat. The horse had sleek muscles under a glossy brown fur coat, and a saddle with gemstones embedded in the leather because Drakes had no taste.
He wore a modern suit that was decorated with, yes, more gemstones and in brown today, which was slightly hot in the warm spring air. Summer, soon. He had a bit of perspiration on his purple scales already, but it was nothing compared to the long line of hundreds of [Miners], [Diggers], [Safety Inspectors], [Haulers], [Forepeople], [Soldiers], and various officials trudging to the dig site.
As they hauled tools with them, pushing wheelbarrows across the unpaved dirt roads, Ilvriss tried not to think of this place as a backwater. The north had civilization.
Just not paved roads, apparently. At least, not in the eastern plains where he had come to dig up the City of Purity, Naamreles, as one did. All he saw was the damn grass. All he smelled was, well, manure.
This was [Rancher] territory. He could see vast herds of cattle grazing; even his own herd he’d bought for the meat and milk grazing to the side with bored Drakes on horseback corralling the cows. Plentiful and, he supposed, economic enough, but not enough to attract any noble houses.
Then again, it was far south enough that the Five Families had never come here, and what nobility there had been present had died during the Second Antinium War. So, local [Cattle Barons] ruled the area, and the result was that the roads were unpaved.
Dirt. It had rained yesterday, and most spots had dried up, but there was, apparently, a mudpatch. Or so Ilvriss assumed. He didn’t see one, but—he craned his neck.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss to Dig Site Team A. Who’s in charge this morning?”
“Wall Lord, sir! That would be me, Lord Dramm, sir!”
“Ah, good. Dramm.”
Ilvriss hid a grimace as he glanced around. Dramm. Wall Lord Brilm’s boy. Twenty-something, gone through officer training but never made full army status, decent head on his shoulders—or so Brilm claimed when he’d asked Ilvriss to employ him—but young. Prone to accidents.
Once took his father’s personal carriage for a spin and jackknifed it over one of the higher floors. Nearly killed an entire family. But that was when he was sixteen.
Definitely better these days. Probably. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Is…there some kind of accident or mudpatch I missed on the road?”
“Er…I do recall a mudpatch on the road, sir.”
Ilvriss stared at the hundred workers trudging past him, all of whom had mud on their boots and leggings. Some had mud up as high as their chests. None of them appeared happy about it. He checked his horse. No mud.
The Wall Lord scratched his head. Then he went riding backwards. The road was almost perfectly dry in most places, just a few potholes of mud here and there. Crumbling away; he sighed.
If someone would just put down some good stone and upkeep it, it’d probably save so many broken wagon wheels or people getting stuck. But that takes money, time, and organization, and Humans…
All respect to Humans, really. One of his best friends was a Human. But they tended to be a bit lazy when it came to organization. If they could put it off, they did.
Ilvriss knew that was a bit arrogant of him to think. He did, but he was still Ilvriss of Salazsar, a Wall Lord of the City of Gems. He had changed greatly, and so sometimes he had to pull thoughts out of his head and examine them.
But he had been in the north for months now. He’d observed the laxity of the City Watches, the more…what was the word? Carefree attitude towards governance and rules that Humans seemed to employ? Drakes, now, Drakes—and Gnolls of Salazsar, they had organization. Hierarchies.
Dead gods, no one had even heard of a [Safety Inspector] when he’d been hiring Humans for this project! That was appalling. No question about it. Ilvriss shook his head and finally found the mudspot in the road.
He stopped…and his notions of Drake superiority ran up against the hole.
The mudhole was a sloping area of the road that had clearly eroded and become a natural egress for water. It sloped downwards and ran for about twelve feet, a divot where water collected and had stayed overnight. It was, indeed, muddy.
It was also a mystery, because the mudhole did not extend across the fairly generous road. It occupied a third of it, just enough space for two or three people to walk abreast and splash in the mud.
Or, and here was a novel thought, take a few steps to the side and walk around the hole. Mysteriously…the dozens of Drakes and Gnolls were walking straight through the mudpatch. Ilvriss saw a group of female [Miners] splash into the pit, grousing as it hit one of them in the neck spines.
“Gaah! Ancestors! What a way to start the day!”
Okay, so this wasn’t a magical mudhole that was invisible to the eyes. Ilvriss leaned on the pommel of his saddle. They could see the mudhole and walked straight into it.
“…What in the name of quartz is going on here?”
Some of the Drakes around Ilvriss shrugged. He was always accompanied by people. Ilvriss barely paid attention. The Rubirel Guard, his personal bodyguard; his advisors; and often, Osthia Blackwing, known as Asrira Shieldscale as she was supposed to be dead; Nerul, his [Diplomat] uncle; or Xesci, the [Courtesan of Change].
There were even Humans; a bunch of bored-looking women known as the Sisters of Chell, a gang who was running security for his group against the many, many Humans who didn’t want Drakes in their lands.
So many people for this organization.
Welsca, one of Ilvriss’ advisors, was a member of his old advising group, and all these new people and projects seemed to unsettle her. The Drake groused.
“Is there a problem, Wall Lord? It’s just a bit of mud. The work teams will be far dirtier before the day’s over, and we have cleaning areas on site.”
“Well, yes. But it can’t be pleasant. Why are they walking through that mudpatch?”
Ilvriss just didn’t get it. Before his eyes, he saw a young Drake with a pickaxe on his shoulder hesitate as he walked and saw the mud, ready to get all over his overalls and britches.
Aha, someone with eyes! The Drake glanced at the line of people marching into the mudhole ahead of him and stepped right. He began to skirt the mudhole, and—
A few of his senior [Miners] ahead of him, with mud on their overalls, turned, saw him evading their fate, and shouted.
“Hey, idiot, back in line!”
“Wha—”
The young Drake jumped. He hesitated and gestured at the hole.
“But the mud—”
“Back in line!”
More people ahead of him turned, saw what he was trying to do, and bawled back at him. A few more of the marching Drakes halted, eying the young Drake trying to evade his muddy fate. One or two more stepped out of line and received death-glares. The young Drake, with bright black scales, hesitated until an older Drake gnawing on the stub of a cigar bumped him hard.
“Just walk into the damn pit, kid.”
He growled. He was thick, had a pickaxe slung over his shoulder, a shovel as well, and stomped straight into the mud and out the other side. He had off-green scales like olives, and the young Drake hesitated, then began walking around the mudpit.
The jeering grew louder, but more followed the young man’s daring example. He was almost past this mudpit, clothing saved, when there was the sound of hooves. Then—the young Drake peered up, and someone booted him in the chest.
Wall Lord Dramm kicked the young Drake into the mudhole, flat on his back, to cheers and shouting as he rode past.
“No stepping out of line, idiots!”
He was grinning as more jeering arose, and he whirled his horse, hesitating when he saw Wall Lord Ilvriss and his company staring at him. Dramm and his own escort were younger Drakes, and—Ilvriss just had to note—
He had mud all over his pants and boots. Almost like he’d walked into a mud pit. The rest of the Drakes gloomily trooped into the mudhole as Dramm threw a salute.
“Er, just keeping things orderly, Wall Lord Ilvriss, sir! Damn mud.”
A pair of Humans were walking down the road, possibly to work as hands on one of the ranches. They stared at the line of Drakes trooping through the mud with their impeccably clean clothing. Then at the Wall Lord, who had his head in his hands.
 
——
 
Drakes were a funny people.
They were. You had to laugh at yourself, especially if everyone else was laughing at you. The only other thing you could do was lash out or pretend they were idiots for laughing, and in Xesci’s experience…that just made you appear stupid. It didn’t make you a friend to other species, and that was one thing she was good at.
Being friendly with other species. Which, she supposed, was her use to Wall Lord Ilvriss. It certainly wasn’t in organization, fighting, or anything else. However, she’d been across Izril before. She’d slept with more famous people than he’d met, probably, and she knew the underworld.
It was a surprise that Ilvriss relied on her. From what she’d known of him, a few years ago he’d have never associated with her, let alone taken notes. But here she was, riding down to Dig Site A to act as a consultant.
Because…he couldn’t rely on his current advisors or staff. Something that [Adjutant] Welsca clearly had picked up on, because she was glaring daggers at Xesci. But she was also trying to smile.
It was a bad act, let alone for someone who read people like Xesci could. She felt Welsca’s resentment, her anxiety at being replaced, jealousy—because she assumed Xesci was sleeping her way to the top. Which, very funnily, hadn’t happened at all. Xesci hadn’t actually done what was in the nature of her class for months now.
“So, Miss…Xesci. Such a lovely name. Is that your working name? Wall Lord Ilvriss is a bit disturbed about some of our organizational practices and, of course, progress on the dig sites. I’m sure he’s just calling you in for a second opinion.”
Xesci translated this corporate-speak into plain common. She wasn’t good at how business-people talked. She could do gang-cant, but no one had ever hired her in a business setting. Except as a [Stripper] for an office party, of course. She nodded at Welsca, trying to put the Drake at ease.
“Xesci? I suppose it’s my work name. I forgot my real name.”
“You wh—”
A blink and Welsca’s guard dropped. The [Courtesan] slipped into the gap.
“Drake hierarchies do get silly at times. I’m sure it’s not gelling well with our hired Humans or even Liscorian workers. I’ll explain it to the Wall Lord; thank you for giving me the chance to do something. It’s all very dull for me, of course. Nothing to do. I haven’t had sex in four months.”
Disarm, answer Welsca’s questions—it wasn’t that subtle, but Xesci was wearing the plain-faced Drake she liked to blend in. Welsca hesitated.
“Er, that’s usually not a matter for discussion, Miss Xesci, and I remind you that you are representing House Gemscale. There have been some issues with our foreign workers, but we’ve made progress on the dig sites. As for silly—what makes you say that?”
She bristled again, all defense. Welsca blinked as Xesci glanced at her, and the [Courtesan of Change] read deeper.
The person that was Welsca’s desire looked just like Wall Lord Ilvriss. How…predictable. But it was also a trap a novice [Courtesan of Change] would make. Give Welsca what she wanted and she’d not be happy because she knew the illusion would never come true. Spice things up instead. Be some debonair Drake [Rogue] or a Gnoll—not too far out of her sensibilities like a Human—and crack that professional clamshell she had on her—
That was just work. Plus, Xesci knew better than to change genders. It weirded most people out, and Drakes doubly so. Even Ilvriss probably wouldn’t be comfortable with that. She smiled at Welsca as they slowed, and she saw Dig Site A.
It was a huge, sprawling area with a lot of work-tents, tons of debris, and huge ramps where Drakes and Gnolls were wheeling the dirt and stone out. Organized; it had privies, shower areas, and places to cook and clean, and it was one of two dig sites searching for the City of Purity.
She knew Ilvriss wanted four dig sites, but staffing was an issue, apparently. Another thing Xesci wasn’t good at unless she became someone good with numbers. But Ilvriss—
He was working out of his ‘office’ below, no more than a tent used for administrative tasks. Wall Lord Dramm bowed at the door, then rushed past the two female Drakes. He paused to stare twice at Xesci, probably due to reputation more than her appearance at the moment. Xesci walked into the tent before Welsca could announce her.
“Intruder—”
The Rubirel Guard at the tent flaps went to grab her, and they had big halberds, but it was the Sisters of Chell who moved faster. A pair of women raised throwing daggers from where they were squatting on the ground, and Xesci glanced at them.
“I’m expected.”
“Xesci, come in! She’s on our list, surely!”
Ilvriss waved her into the tent, and both groups relaxed. Drakes and Humans glared at each other. More interpersonal problems. Xesci was, in theory, good at this sort of thing, but she had limits. She could charm plenty of people, but making the Sisters of Chell likable to the Drakes? Far harder, and she didn’t have time or inclination to do it. Plus, making herself likable to the Drakes meant denying who she was a lot of the time. Unless it was critical, she let it be and just monitored how much each side disliked the other. Xesci walked into the tent with Welsca, and Ilvriss sighed.
“Welsca’s already caught you up to speed? I had a word with Dramm, in private. Nothing like dressing down someone publicly to cause issues, but the boy has to understand that what flows from the top carries down to everyone in terms of morale and leadership. This is, what, the sixth incident this month around morale? I was hoping you had an opinion, Xesci.”
She sat down in a chair without being asked, which drew a gasp from Welsca. Ilvriss just shook his head at his adjutant, which Xesci appreciated. She could be a bit more herself here, whomever that had been. She’d forgotten her original face and name, after all. She was 70% sure she’d been a Drake, though. 20% she had been a Human or Gnoll, 10% that she was actually a Selphid who’d gone crazy.
“I do have an opinion, Wall Lord. Firstly, Dramm is angry, but not really at you, just at being dressed down. He’s not going to remember whatever you told him, though.”
Ilvriss put his head back and sighed as he poured himself a cup of water, then her one. He sat back in his chair and gulped down the water as Xesci politely drank her cup, then filled hers with a bottle from her side. Sherry. Welsca was trying to find new levels of appalledness, but she had dealt with Erin and Ryoka Griffin before. It was just that Xesci was a Drake, and apparently, that meant something.
Well, Xesci hoped Ilvriss really had changed, because this next bit had him sitting up.
“I hope you recall that some of what comes down from the top is gold, which is why people listen, Wall Lord. But the rest tends to be piss.”
Ilvriss sat up in his chair, and his eyes narrowed.
“I like to think House Gemscale runs a tidy, efficient, respectful enterprise, Xesci.”
She shrugged.
“From what I’ve heard? Scuttlebutt says it’s one of the best thanks to your Administrator Alrric. But the best nettle in a basket still hurts.”
He stared at her and put down his cup.
“You’re implying there’s a flaw in our structures?”
“I’m telling you there’s a flaw in Drake culture. Which is why Liscor’s and Esthelm’s people are turning over at a higher rate and you have an entire worksite covered in mud.”
She’d hoped she was wrong and her memories were out of date, but she had to point out the obvious. Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table.
“Dramm’s a young fool—”
“The fact that every Drake and Gnoll from Salazsar walked into the mud after him is because that’s how it works, Wall Lord. And if they didn’t? Every worker who did walk into the mud would make their life hell for a week.”
“…Surely not.”
Ilvriss glanced at Welsca for support, but here Xesci felt the [Adjutant] hesitate. Because she knew Drake hierarchies. Ilvriss didn’t. Xesci smiled at him.
“You told me to be direct with you, Ilvriss. All I can tell you is what I see. You stand at the top, so I imagine it looks different from above, but I’ve been at the bottom rung in Drake culture.”
“So we have a problem with authority?”
“You have a problem with how authority works, Wall Lord.”
“A bit of overzealousness when it comes to stepping out of line isn’t the worst—”
Xesci turned to Welsca, a big smile on her face.
“I don’t know this Dramm, but I know Wall Lords. Adjutant Welsca, how many times have you gone out drinking into the dawn this month?”
Ilvriss’ head turned, and his mouth opened at this apparent non-sequitur, but when he saw Welsca’s eyes shift away from him, her visible twist of the lips, he hesitated. The [Adjutant] coughed.
“I’d say no more than…eight times? We’re very committed to the project, Xesci.”
It was the 14th of the month. Xesci pointedly turned to Ilvriss, and he hesitated.
“I haven’t been out drinking since last year. I haven’t kept up on after-work events, but a bit of relaxation is allowed, Xesci. Hangover cures were invented for a reason, and if someone’s a bit tired, well—”
He was making excuses to avoid painting Welsca in a bad light. Xesci sighed louder.
“You don’t get it, Ilvriss. It’s not about Welsca drinking. It’s the fact that she has to drink when she doesn’t even like it.”
This time, the [Adjutant] jumped.
“How do you know—?”
Ilvriss blinked, and now he was leaning over his desk.
“Is that true, Welsca? But when I used to throw after-work parties, you always showed up.”
He was thinking. It took a while, but the Wall Lord was blinking, and Welsca was blushing. Xesci was calm because it took a lot to get her ruffled. She smiled.
“That’s expected, Wall Lord. Especially in Salazsar, but most Drake cities have that culture. You show up for an after-work party because you have to. Anyone who doesn’t do that is anti-social. Not part of the team; isn’t that right, Welsca?”
“I quite enjoy such events, Miss Xesci.”
The [Adjutant] really seemed like she didn’t want to be here, but there was also part of her that was saying she wanted Xesci to go on. Ilvriss turned.
“Dramm’s holding after-work drinking parties? I suppose any lad his age would. Into the dawn’s a bit rough, but at his age, you can survive it. Why is Welsca there?”
“Because he outranks her. And because he wouldn’t mind sleeping with her.”
Welsca nearly spat out her water. Xesci wasn’t surprised, of course, but Ilvriss turned.
“That would be entirely—”
He hesitated because he’d had a relationship with his subordinate, but Xesci shrugged.
“Her and every female co-worker the young Wall Lord has. It’s easier when they drink.”
“That’s unacceptable.”
“That’s how it works, Ilvriss. And she can’t exactly leave until he’s done or he’ll get upset—assuming he remembers that. I expect plenty of Liscorian Drakes don’t know how that dynamic works. You have to know this is expected.”
Ilvriss was squirming in his chair.
“I—well, yes, there’s such a thing as being part of the team, but it’s not onerous. I buy all the drinks!”
Which was nice unless you wanted to be somewhere else or you didn’t really care for drinking. He glanced at Welsca, and Xesci exhaled.
“It’s up to you if you want to ignore that. But you asked me what I think? I think there’s things about Drake culture that are making things less effective here, Wall Lord. Especially when you’re trying something new.”
Like digging with mostly volunteers in Human lands and having to work with other species. Ilvriss protested weakly.
“I understand, Xesci. But it’s not just that. It’s the damn cattle raids from those idiots stealing our food! It’s the lack of plumbing in the town of Thirthoof, our low workforce, all these nobles giving us grief—and Humans are damn inefficient, can’t pave their roads, don’t use bidets, and can’t handle one Drake on their lands without causing a fuss!”
He slammed a fist down on his desk as all the frustrations of this project came out of him in a moment. Xesci waited as Ilvriss lowered his head, then peered up, embarrassed, and she smiled at him.
“Yes, Wall Lord. But none of that excuses the issues with Salazsar or Drakes, does it?”
He sat there and rubbed his eyes tiredly.
“…No. No, it doesn’t, does it? So what do I do, Xesci?”
She gazed at him and said the thing that was at the core of her class.
“Change, Wall Lord. You’ve done it once, but only you’ve changed.”
He sat back in his little office as flies buzzed around him, and he heard shouting from the mines and Captain Osthia leading a patrol of soldiers around. Ilvriss stared up at the ceiling.
“Alright. Welsca, starting as of now, I am mandating that no officers have parties…”
Xesci coughed noisily, and Ilvriss sat up and stared at her. He hesitated.
“I’m…instituting a broad reform that people don’t have to attend such events?”
“Sure, that’ll work. This is sarcasm, by the way.”
Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table.
“Well, how in Rhir’s hells am I supposed to change things?”
She gave him a patient look.
“Why don’t you take your own advice and lead by example, Wall Lord? Piss from above and all that. Throw a party, and let people not attend or excuse themselves. Welsca and I will do it, and you should make a point of showing everyone it’s fine.”
He sat there.
“I have to throw a party tonight so people can leave?”
“Yep.”
He sat back in his chair, stared up at the ceiling again, then sighed.
“Alright. Welsca, will you handle it? Spread the word. Ancestors. I wonder if anything fun is happening at The Wandering Inn?”
Everywhere had to be more pleasant than here. Xesci felt bad for the poor Wall Lord. Change was so damn uncomfortable, even if you were used to it. But knowing you needed to change, feeling you had to, in your bones…that was life.
Change or die. She adjusted her clothing as Welsca nodded and scribbled a note, trying not to look that happy. Xesci raised a claw.
“On that note, I think I’d like to help with morale a bit more, Ilvriss. I can keep giving you advice, but how would you feel about me opening a brothel in town?”
“What?”
“No? Just at our worksites, then?”
The other Drakes stared at Xesci, as if they’d forgotten they’d hired a [Courtesan]. Xesci sighed longer.
Corporate people. They were her best and kinkiest clients.
 
——
 
Someone else glanced over her shoulder and had cause for regret as well. Much like a Wall Lord staring at a line of muddy Drakes and Gnolls, Damia Reinhart stared back at the nude form of her half-brother, Wernel Reinhart, in their messy, shared bed and had a thought.
Ick.
It wasn’t the first time she’d felt that way of late, but it had been recurring, and she had to consider that, maybe, just possibly, she wasn’t having as much fun with her half-brother in their incestuous relationship as before.
A crazy thought, but, well, she had changed. Damia sat up in her bed and instantly saw Wernel reaching for a little tin. He poured a line of brown powder into a roll and began hunting around for a wand to light it. She wrinkled her nose at the harsh aroma.
“Hazyflower. That will destroy your mind, you know, Wernel.”
“Bah, it’s fun. Let’s have some and go again, Damia. From behind?”
Normally, Damia would decide to try the Hazyflower and think it spiced up the bedroom. Instead, she rolled over and hunted for her clothing.
“I have more to do than just sex, Wernel. Are you getting bored?”
“Hmm? I mean…no? You should really try the Hazyflower. I’m getting it all the way from…Nomaudrel. It’s non-addictive, or so the [Merchant] who sold me it said.”
Damia blinked and brightened up.
“Oh! Is this from the Cont’dvalle productions? The Delightful Duchess—Princess Menisi of Calanfer, I believe, came up with several high-end variants of drugs that don’t have the same harmful effects. Very interesting.”
She’d just found out about this Menisi because the Duchess had apparently re-emerged in Calanferian politics. Which Damia hadn’t ever paid attention to until this year; now she was reading up on the many Terandrian nations and was frankly annoyed at how powerful and secure their holdings were.
That’s what comes of taking an entire continent and holding it against other species. And largely subjugating the half-Elven and Dwarven populations, of course. She was sure that’s not how the Terandrians would say it, but it gave them an undeniable edge as a continent, as well as their unity against foreigners.
She was ready to snuggle up to Wernel and discuss all that as she perked up, but he finished a huge puff of his spliff, exhaled the brown smoke that stained the sheets and pillows, and gave her the blankest of looks.
“What? Cont’d—what? No, I just got it from Nomaudrel. What’s…the rest of all that?”
“It’s what I found out, Wernel.”
Damia snapped, her good mood evaporating. He shook his head, and a familiar grimace crossed his face.
“That damn curse from Aunt Magnolia—try the Hazyflower, Damia. It helps with all that.”
“What, thinking?”
She leapt out of bed and began dressing. Wernel reached for her arm, but she stormed out of his rooms, so he shouted after her.
“Send a servant or someone, would you, Damia? One of the ones I like!”
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart was annoyed as she walked through House Reinhart’s family manor. Not by the idea that Wernel was promptly going to pop another servant into bed to replace her.
That was normal, expected. She was annoyed because he didn’t want to reclaim their stolen birthright, the intelligence of a Reinhart. He wanted to hide, even after Magnolia Reinhart’s curse, the Skill she’d used to subdue her entire family and cloud their minds, had vanished.
But Damia was thinking, and the problem with thinking was that…it meant she was no longer complacent.
None of them were. As she strode through House Reinhart, Damia saw servants fleeing her or pausing to practically prostrate themselves on the floor. They hadn’t used to do that.
Oh, they’d been obsequious, but not afraid. Also, lower-class. The new ones were a mix of completely inexperienced but attractive, young men and women both, or highly competent. Her mother, Cecille Reinhart, and her uncles and aunts and cousins had shaken up their staffing.
The Reinharts were back. No longer made dumb, no longer tamed by Magnolia. For two decades, they’d been shackled, and some, like Damia, had been born and raised and never known their true nature.
Which was to be the viper among flowers, to be sharp, cunning, incisive—and dangerous.
A crash from the front doors as Damia strode through the courtyard that led into the various wings of the manor. A man was catapulted out of the carriage he’d driven into the doors. He landed, swearing, then got up, visibly intoxicated.
Blood on the carriage front.
Uncle Gorthes strode forwards unsteadily, a bullwhip at his side, and roared.
“Servants!”
They came running, a [Hostler], his personal [Manservants], a pair of [Maids]—Damia leaned over the railing and called down.
“Uncle Gorthes, did you run someone over again?”
He grinned up at her.
“Just a pair of horses from an idiot who didn’t yield the road, Niece! Some fools still don’t get that we’re back. I snapped up that bakery everyone likes.”
She sighed, leaning on the balcony.
“By, what, threatening to run into the owner’s shop if he doesn’t sell you a stake?”
“Don’t be silly. His son was in prison after a fight at the bar. Poor lad. Would have gone straight to the noose if I hadn’t bailed him out.”
“Really, the noose over a barfight?”
Damia rolled her eyes, but Gorthes was chuckling.
“Strange how it all works out. That’s the way, Damia. You, eh, you have any projects going on? I’m still trying to take all those damn mines Magnolia has lying around. But she’s got them all behind other owners. As if she knew we’d come for them. Wine. Wine, and get me something to eat!”
He swung a fist out as one of the [Manservants] tried to take his coat. The man dodged the fist and backed up with the coat.
“Absolutely, at once, Lord Gorthes.”
Damia eyed the older man. He didn’t seem as frightened as the female [Servants] who ran when Gorthes reached for them. Not every servant of House Reinhart had fled the moment they’d reawakened.
Some were part of the family and knew how it had been. After all, a Reinhart might be a viper, but they knew to share the wealth with people they liked. Gorthes went limping up the stairs.
“You still sleeping with your brother?”
“Wernel? Oh, yes.”
It displeased Damia that Gorthes didn’t even blink at this, just wrinkled his nose up. Last year, he’d have been appalled, if mildly, and it wouldn’t be fit for conversation. Today? He just spat.
“Well, if you’re going to pop children out, we could use them. Maybe I’ll find someone to sire a score; Izril’s barren enough for nobles. Dead gods but it’s all a mess! Did you know we’ve got Terandrians on our shores?”
She raised her brows.
“Really? For the New Lands? Which nation?”
“Taimaguros! Damn bastards. I don’t remember what they’re like. Also, what’s up with these damn [Vampire Hunters]? I nearly ran over a bunch of them demanding to test me with silver—”
Gorthes was striding out of sight, and Damia had no inclination to follow him. He’d always been aggressive and loud, but the difference was, today, he would back that up with the willingness to run someone over in his reinforced carriage.
Before he’d just been, well, rude. Magnolia Reinhart had kept the real Lord Gorthes from coming out, and this man wasn’t shy about leaping from his carriage or unleashing the bullwhip he carried. The old Lord Gorthes had everyone in fifty miles of their manor avoiding any black carriages on the road. Because that was who he had been, and older generations remembered him.
But who…was Damia Reinhart?
She didn’t know. And she owed Magnolia a dagger in the heart for keeping her from herself all her life.
 
——
 
Cecille Reinhart was Damia’s mother, who had been a rather uppity woman with piercing blue eyes, brown hair pulled back in a frazzled bob, but who had mostly contented herself with gossip and sneering at other women. Damia remembered her mother mostly being outraged about Damia and Wernel’s illicit relationship and being annoyed at everything. A woman who would sneer from behind a cup of wine but never sully her hands when a servant could do it for her.
Cecille Reinhart, today, was pacing around a carriage with an [Enchanter] and [Engineer] from the House of El. Both men were nervous, but she was giving orders in a pointed, clipped tone. And yes, she was dressed to impress in that bloody cloth that had once been described to Captain Zevara as ‘rosewood’, but she even seemed sharper. More beautiful, more sure of herself. She didn’t even glance at Damia when her daughter came into the workshop.
“The scythe-blades are utterly useless. If the House of El doesn’t have auto-aiming, auto-reloading crossbows, give me something that explodes outwards. I want more speed. And locking-Skills on my wheels. No disassembly.”
“I—I could look into that, Lady Reinhart. You’re searching for a counter-Skill against any magics or Skills? That’s very specialized—”
“Do it. If you cannot, don’t waste my time.”
Cecille Reinhart snapped her fan open, then tapped the glass of the carriage window.
“Also, illusion spells on the carriage. I want a variety of options. And an enchantment to make it appear as though I am someone else.”
“Lady Reinhart, that’s highly illegal—”
She turned her head, and the [Enchanter] from First Landing added.
“—But well within my capabilities! I may need to consult with Wistram.”
Her lips twisted.
“Can you do without? If you work with Wistram, I will not have any listening or tracking enchantments in my carriage. Unless you can guarantee that, I will do without. And if you are wrong, I will ensure you don’t survive that mistake.”
The [Enchanter] went dead white and said nothing at all. Cecille snapped her fan closed, then smiled.
“Enchanter Jives, that’s a joke, a joke! Dead gods, you take things so seriously…excuse me, my daughter appears to need me. Damia!”
She was all smiles as she came towards Damia and took her arm. Cecille exited the workshop, dropped the smile, and scowled.
“Odious little men. No one capable for miles around here. They’ve either left for the New Lands or…that Master Hedault in Invrisil would have been far better.”
“You couldn’t get him?”
“Him? Hah! Too difficult to work with. Too principled. What do you want, Damia? I’m busy.”
Cecille lit a cigarette as Damia stood there. She wore her clothing of old, which was a young noblewoman’s outfit, trendy, with the lace of last year’s fad still clinging to a revealing, ruby-red dress that would have been so provocative…
Now it just felt pointlessly slutty and trying too hard. Cecille eyed Damia, and one roll of her eyes stung more than any lecture or outrage of before.
I have changed. But because she had, Damia lashed out with a slight smirk.
“Still sore about getting trounced by Watch Captain Zevara, Mother?”
Cecille Reinhart blew out some smoke and didn’t dignify Damia’s comment with a response.
“I miss our [Assassins]. They should have never been allowed to rebel, and doing without them is so tiring. I hear Calidus has them, but how they came back into our possession is odd.”
“We have the Assassin’s Guild again? They weren’t wiped out?”
Damia grew interested again with that flash of—of being alive that thrilled her to the core. Cecille hesitated, then went to apply some lipstick. She spoke, sidelong, appraising Damia.
“That is a secret to any but our house and likely some members of the Five Families and greater houses. It will be kept secret.”
“I’m no fool, but why, Mother? They turned on Magnolia and Tyrion. And the Circle—why suffer them to live?”
“Hmm. I can see you’re still trying to engage that brain of yours. Magnolia, Tyrion? Do we love them that much?”
The question threw Damia.
“But he’s the head of House Veltras, our military commander, and even if she’s Aunt Magnolia, she was our head.”
The older [Lady] fished for a little puff pad to apply more makeup, alternating between that and the cigarette.
“And? When it’s war, he’s a useful dolt. It behooves us to have House Veltras weak, if not in strength of arms, then coin or whatnot. The Assassin’s Guild is a necessity to keep commonfolk in their place. The Merchant’s Guild is getting notions above their station again…one employs a [Ratter] for pests. The same here. But a trained dog instead of a feral one. I’m just surprised anyone gave Calidus the reins. Bah, he might do it, and if he dies, he was always the oddball.”
Damia understood the logic, but it just sounded—
“But doesn’t the Circle of Thorns constitute a larger threat, Mother? Even if we’re accepting the results, shouldn’t we keep eliminating them? No one in the family is bothering with them.”
“Why should we? It’s not our problem. Nobles always have their little cults and groups. I’ve been part of six secret societies. They usually have no teeth.”
Now her daughter was holding her head in a dreadful display of…Cecille rolled her eyes, but Damia was thinking.
“I…understand…that’s how it used to be, Mother. But that was before Magnolia took power. Before the Second Antinium War and the Sacrifice of Roses. Are—are things different now? Shouldn’t we look into the Drakes or—or Gnolls or—?”
Cecille ignored her stuttering daughter. Damia was trying to think, which was in some ways commendable, but she didn’t understand how deep the divisions ran. Ally with the Drakes? Hah! Cecille would rather drink poison; it’d be a more pleasant way to go. She changed the subject, tired of this.
“Damia, if you’re going to continue menacing the servants with Wernel, use protection. I don’t have time to be a grandmother, and you and Wernel bring negative value as a match.”
“You’re not intending to marry us off?”
“Hah! For what, five coppers and a rock?”
That stung even harder, and Damia flushed. Cecille gave her an amused gaze.
“Anyone with eyes knows your relationship. To whom am I supposed to make a bid, much less want to pay a dowry to? We are not Terandrians.”
“I’ve been studying Terandria, actually. There are precedents. There was a proposed engagement to one of the [Princesses] of Calanfer with Lord Tyrion’s sons. If I were to wed a [Prince] or a high-ranking [Lord]—”
No, her mother actually gave Damia a look of half-interest, but it turned to impatience at once. Cecille waved a hand through the smoke.
“You are no Tyrion Veltras, and we are low-ranking [Ladies] in Terandria’s eyes. Confine your ambitions to practicality, Damia. I do appreciate the fact you can now read…your brother seems content to return to form. But don’t presume to think you know the family business. You were born under Magnolia’s curse.”
“I’m quite aware of what you’ve all been doing! You don’t appear to be that much more capable if a single Drake from Liscor could outsmart you!”
The elder [Lady] pinched the glowing end of her cigarette, and the red-hot ash on her finger burned…but her skin did not. Damia sensed—something—gathering on the tip of her mother’s finger and stared at it, wide-eyed. Cecille spoke.
“Aura.”
She flicked the hot ash past Damia’s right ear, and as her daughter flinched, Cecille leaned forwards.
“I have bought over two hundred healing scrolls to replace the healing potion shortage, despite the Watch Captain confiscating the rest. At considerable personal effort. The rest of the family comes to me, begging for what no one else has. Even old Regis summoned me to get them out of me and coughed up enough gold to let me re-establish my businesses. Not the scraps of gold Magnolia gave to us as our ‘allowances’. The next step is capable help. Which I shall find, and secure, then begin re-establishing what our family should have. If you can prove you’re worth the investment, I may allow you to help, but you have nothing but our name, Damia. You don’t even know what we’ve lost.”
She blew on the cigarette again, then swept back towards the workshop. Damia was left red-cheeked, thinking of revenge. Outraged and, for once, envious of her mother.
So that was what they were. She was learning fast.
 
——
 
She could poison her mother, of course. Or slip some glass into her drink.
No, it’d have to be fast. And there were personal protection spells. An enchanted crossbow with an anti-magic bolt would probably do it, while Cecille was in the privy or in bed. Bribe the guards, make sure she was dead.
Damia ran through the scenario in her head, then discarded the thought. For so many reasons, no. Firstly, her mother was far better alive than dead. It would ruin Damia’s reputation, it carried substantial risks—
It was just a thought. The reason Damia didn’t do it was because it wasn’t worth the effort. Not because there was some moral or philosophical reason not to.
Even before her awakening, Damia had known the truth: you could do anything you wanted in life. There were no rules for them. She had just, well—enjoyed life when it was simpler.
Here was the thing: it wasn’t fun sleeping with her half-brother these days. Before, it had been the spice of the forbidden, the thought they were doing some grandly heinous thing or even in great love.
Today? Damia was getting rather tired of seeing Wernel’s nude form. She had the distinct feeling she could do better and was rather annoyed to wonder if he thought the same thing. She was bored of her old life.
Time for something new, but what?
Damia made a list.
“Selphid’s Dust…I’ve tried that. Addictive unless I buy some from Cont’dvalle. Do I have enough gold for…Dreamleaf, bah. A party?”
All her old ‘friends’ were insipid or leeches after her reputation. Damia twirled the quill around in her fingers. She’d tried to hang out with them, but they were just petty bullies who confined themselves to ruining someone’s day by commenting on their dress, sniping at their ‘enemies’ that were other young [Ladies].
If I have an enemy, I will ruin their lives and shatter everything they hold as good and dear. If not, she had better things to do with her time.
Power. Damia checked her list, and she was not happy with what she found.
 
Assets:
Merchant’s Guild account: 2,287 gold pieces. No access to family accounts.
Personal clothing, 7 minor enchanted artifacts, all protective.
Dueling Sword, Enchantment of Sharpness. Wernel’s birthday gift.
Servant contracts:
Liset — Level 9 [Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with Wernel.
Evie — Level 11 [Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with Wernel.
Amadearie — Level 14 [Snitch Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with both of us.
 
“That’s it. That’s all I have?”
She was—poor! Damia clenched the quill in one fist. When she tabulated her wealth, the actual wealth in her control, she had nothing.
No actual retainers on staff, no capable help, no magic. Oh, she had plenty that was just the ‘family’s’. Access to staff, the mansion, their carriages, but even there, she’d seen Gorthes and her mother making their own custom-built carriages.
Damia had no authority. No voice in House Reinhart or the Five Families. No one knew her, except as ‘the girl who slept with her brother’, and no levels.
She was a Level 9 [Incestuous Lady]. That—that stung most of all, knowing she was Damia Reinhart, and she deserved to be Level 30 at her age. But how to get more?
She didn’t know. So Damia went to the one place she knew power lay. Where she could obtain it…if she was clever.
The basement that her family had avoided like the plague for so long, where the oldest Reinhart of all resided.
Regis Reinhart.
 
——
 
Damia had never realized it, but the entire hallway under the Reinhart estates was made of Chemath Marble. Enchanted, probably the most structurally sound place in the entire north. The magical armory that contained the Reinharts’ treasures, guarded by the ghost of one of their first ancestors upon Izril, Regis Reinhart himself, was deceptive.
You could only see a bit into the armory; huge wardrobes and other objects blocked what lay behind, out of sight. There was gold, visible gold, a literal crown, pieces of art hanging in the foreground of Regis’ abode, but, Damia suddenly thought, it was an act.
Who had gold pieces just lying around? It was meant to impress the credulous. Then again—her eyes darted to an object on a plinth.
The Crown of Flowers. Each petal blooming and glistening, beautiful beyond belief. She reached for it as a bunch of ghostly [Maids] watched her. Her hand smacked into an invisible wall, and she recoiled.
One of the [Maids] laughed at her. Damia rubbed at her hand.
“Silence. Where is Grandfather Regis?”
“Absent.”
“Absent? This is where he’s contained!”
Damia cast around, brows raised. Could he ‘sleep’? Was he further in the vaults? He couldn’t leave, obviously, so she stood on her tiptoes, wondering if he was inspecting some Relic-class objects.
The [Maids] said nothing, and Damia folded her arms.
“Summon him. I wish to speak with Grandfather Regis.”
None of them responded. Damia waited, scowling deeper, wondering if she should threaten and, if so, with what, when Regis Reinhart appeared, a misty form coalescing into shape, details emerging until she heard his irritated, snappish voice.
“—got to go. Someone’s bothering—”
He caught sight of her and stopped putting a finger to his temple.
“Bah. It’s just one of the young ones. I’ll deal with her presently. Stop whining, Calidus. I need the Assassin’s Guild functional. Do so and I shall reward you. With what? A Relic!”
He paused, and Damia’s ears perked up. Calidus? He’d always been annoying to her, that fat, drunk slob who slept around constantly. Annoyingly sharp when she and Wernel had tried to nettle him at their get-togethers.
No, wait, he was probably smart now too. And he’d always been…smart…she hesitated, then listened in more closely. Why did he have the Assassin’s Guild? Regis was talking to one of them? Was he more important than she…?
And Regis Reinhart himself seemed frustrated.
“What kind of Relic? Name one!”
A pause. Then Regis’ brows furrowed.
“What could I offer…? I have the wealth of House Reinhart, boy!”
He took his finger from his temple and hissed around the room.
“What would I have to offer Calidus Reinhart?”
The [Maids] who were dusting or sitting around shrugged.
“A good drink?”
“A scantily clad Golem?”
“A crossbow bolt to the head?”
Regis snarled.
“He has to want something! Use your brains, you fools! I command it by our binding!”
A dusky [Maid] floated up to Regis.
“He wants to not be as smart as he is. There’s little you can give him.”
The old ghost visibly faltered. And Damia, listening intently, had a thought. She knew Calidus. She raised her voice.
“Calidus loves pretentious things. Puzzles. Chess. Is there a—a locked box or some kind of unsolvable puzzle you have, Grandfather? A mystery?”
Regis focused on Damia for a moment, and she shivered, but his eyes lit up as he touched his temple again.
“Calidus, Nephew. Do you think I’m without something to delight even you? I have more than just old armor and weapons. How about a mystery? I have a puzzle box no one has ever managed to solve—something that pre-dates the Creler Wars and perhaps even the Continent of Glass. They call it the Obtrix Confundium. Before I acquired it, it was being used as ammunition in war. The half-Elves built a contraption that just hurled it as fast as they could make it go at enemy walls. It’s smashed at least six keeps—never broken. Even Fraerlings couldn’t figure it out.”
Damia’s mouth opened. Regis smiled.
“All yours. If you get them working. Now, I must go—if you need resources, I’ll provide them! Nothing for your amusement. Show results and I’ll deliver rewards!”
He cut the spell, then shook his head as he floated down.
“The most competent member of the family and the laziest. Well, I thought I’d see another member of the family sooner or later. Delilah or some such. You took your time working your nerve up to see me. Half the family’s been in here already. I don’t care what Magnolia’s done to you. You know the rules. Give me more than I shall give you or don’t waste my time.”
He sat down, and a drink was poured for him. Damia reddened.
“It’s Damia, Grandfather. I’m Cecille’s daughter.”
“Who…? Oh, yes. The one sleeping with her brother.”
Red-faced, Damia pointed at him.
“I didn’t know you could speak outside of your chambers, Grandfather! And how do we have the Assassin’s Guild? I thought it belonged to the Circle of Thorns and was destroyed!”
Regis’ eyes flickered as he put the cup down and sighed.
“I may speak with the family abroad per the conditions of my spells. No one else. Girl, the Assassin’s Guild is an asset of the north. If it is destroyed, we remake it. Or should we be lacking in such a valuable tool? What you know is no business of mine, even if that encompasses everything. Begone.”
He pushed at her, somehow. With his aura? Damia stumbled backwards, then windmilled her arms. She tried to stop herself, and the outrage of being shoved backwards made her feel—solid. Just for a second. Regis’ brows rose ever-so-slightly as Damia caught herself.
“I—I require help! You know what Magnolia’s done to us! Give me something, an investment, and I’ll return the favor, Grandfather.”
“Hah. That’s not how it works. I’ve heard that a million times.”
He bared yellowed teeth and licked his lips. Damia protested.
“I helped you with Calidus!”
“One unique thought and the ability to resist the weakest aura-push do not show me talent, girl. You are a Reinhart. Your aunt, that simpering, superior brat Magnolia, could manifest her aura when she was fifteen. She took her entire family over and fought a war before she was your age. That’s talent. I’m sure you’d like to believe she ‘held you back’ from your full potential. But it wasn’t much, either way.”
He pointed his finger, and Damia braced herself to res—
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart cursed as he eyed Damia’s blank face and drooling expression. He’d hit her with his aura, which was superior to any current Reinhart except for Magnolia…maybe. But she’d seen him speaking to Calidus.
Not the worst thing to find out, and she hadn’t seen him leave his vaults—that would have required her immediate removal or indoctrination.
But should he arrange an accident anyways? He drummed his fingers on the air, biting at a skin flap on his lips as he snarled at his [Maids].
“You were supposed to keep any visitors away! Useless sluts. How intelligent is she?”
“She sleeps with her brother, Wernel.”
One of them dodged his backhanded slap, and Regis thought about that, then eyed Damia.
“So she’s barely intelligent. Bah, just send her out.”
She wouldn’t piece anything valuable together, and having her break her neck somewhere would cause more trouble. His worthless family were good distractions for the Circle of Thorns. Regis sat in the air, frowning.
“Calidus is losing his nerve. I may need a backup to him.”
“Very good, Master. A backup to a backup.”
He ignored that too. He was surrounded by idiots and fools. He made use of what he had; Regis murmured.
“Give me a list of the new Circle of Thorns members. Who’s the most intelligent here? And draw up more gold and call Roshal again.”
He hated spending gold. Even if he was richer than most nations. Regis was annoyed by anyone with more wealth than him because wealth was power. He’d celebrated Khelt falling. There should only be one great ancient power in the world. He’d outlasted plenty of immortals, and more were popping up in this age; very well and good. Time to clear the board.
 
——
 
—she blinked, and she was standing in the courtyard where she’d been dazedly staring at the sky, drooling, for the last eight minutes. Damia jerked awake, and Lord Gorthes, striding back to a new carriage, snorted at her.
“Thought you had a chance with old Regis? You’re lucky you weren’t out of it a month. He can push your brain, stupid. Let me know if you want some jam tarts. I’ll have them delivered daily for breakfast. Dead gods but it’s good to eat proper food again! Get me a Lischelle Prime Steak for dinner!”
He leapt into the carriage and began to drive off. Damia stood there, then realized the servants and some of her family members were eying her from the balcony overlooking the courtyard. She turned red and stormed away.
 
——
 
Brothels. Brothels took a lot of work, and no one respected how hard they were.
Oh, sure, in theory you could run one with a curtain, a mattress and a single room, but dead gods was that not the ideal working environment. And Xesci had seen them all. For one thing, even if you were so desperate to do that, there were plenty of factors to consider.
Like hygiene. Mattresses got dirty very fast. Security—at some point, someone wasn’t going to pay or they got violent. Protection both against pregnancy and against diseases.
But even Ilvriss could have probably logiced his way to that point. What he really didn’t consider was…lumbar support.
You needed a really firm mattress. None of that soft stuff. And ambiance mattered a lot for men and women, no matter what they said. Soundproofing too; nothing like hearing someone else in the middle of a carnal act to put many off their mood.
There was an atmosphere to cultivate, scents to hide, and you wanted to also project the right vibe. The exotic allure of a forbidden space or a welcoming, relaxing spot where you knew people.
To that end, she rented a building in the town of Thirthoof, the nearest settlement to Ilvriss’ projects. It was only a thirty-minute march from here to Dig Site A, which was very helpful. It was also, frankly, a pretty remote and poor town.
Esthelm and Celum were prosperous cities compared to the town. This was, again, [Rancher] territory, and the only thing that was in plenty here was milk and beef and other farm-type products.
“‘S the Lischelle clans and Rominet herders. Big families round here. Most have their own farms with everything. No need for us, see?”
The [Pub Owner], who had a closed, unused pub, explained why there were people in town at all. Xesci smacked her lips.
“The meat is very good here, though Ilvriss talked about…cattle raids?”
It sounded hilarious to her, but the man just grimaced.
“That’s rancher stuff. My advice, Missy? You don’t mess with them [Ranchers]. You think the gangs in big cities are bad? These lots are big as the horses they ride, and they gang up.”
Xesci, who was wearing a Human face for the negotiations, glanced at a few women who had their arms folded or who grinned at the ‘gangs’ comment. One flicked out a switchblade, and Xesci raised one brow.
The Sister of Chell hesitated, and the blade disappeared before the [Pub Owner] turned. Xesci smiled.
“Well, I’d be happy to rent this place for a few months. Here’s the downpayment.”
He blinked at all the gold, but she knew how this worked and had a contract ready to sign. The [Pub Owner] scrawled his name, then squinted around.
“You ladies going to run your own pub here?”
“Something like that. We’ll definitely serve alcohol.”
The Sisters all chuckled as Xesci rolled the contract up, and the [Pub Owner] scratched his head. He might get annoyed when he knew what this place was going to be, but then again, he might just become a regular customer. Xesci nodded at the Sisters of Chell.
“Can you get this place worked up? I’ll have specifications about the mattresses and the like.”
“We know what’s up, Miss Xesci. But it’s a surprise to hear you want to work again. I heard you were some big sort-of-Face from the bosses.”
A Sister eyed Xesci; they didn’t quite know what to make of her, but the fact that she knew Haple, their commanding body, had impressed the women. They weren’t as organized as the Brothers, and Xesci gave the woman a polite smile.
“I don’t mind the work; it’s more profitable and easier than having to act as muscle. You’ll get a workout here.”
“Pah. You won’t catch me going back to that life. I’d rather be the one spreading legs than doing it for someone else.”
One of the Sisters spat, flexing a tattooed arm with knife-scars on it. Xesci smiled.
“Well then, grab a mop and clean that up.”
When the Sister glared at her, Xesci leaned on her. Not physically, but she stood a bit taller—she rose four inches and put on muscle. She leaned over the Sister as the others backed up, wide-eyed.
“This is my place, and I’m a Face. Not of the streets, but the sheets. No accidents or sloppiness here. Find me girls who want to work, and they’ll be safe. We’ll make money and all be happy. But we’re all sisters, agreed?”
“Yes, Miss. Absolutely.”
Rattled, the Sister stepped back and went to find a mop. Xesci turned and winked at the other Sisters, half of whom had their mouths open.
“I know you’ve heard stories about me from Boss Yeire. I’m usually just boring and whomever I need to be, but these are unprecedented times. I imagine Ilvriss’ workers will need to blow off steam, so we’re going to be nice and helpful. And make money.”
That was quite important. Ilvriss didn’t get it, and he was paying Xesci well, but this was the language the Sisters knew. Xesci cracked her knuckles.
“Okay, start recruiting. Oh, and find me someone who can make food and serve drinks.”
She was envisioning a friendly place; no need to be like the ones that tried too hard to be important or the most sinful. Classy. And not too many drapes. They looked good, hid a lot of things, but dead gods. No one ever changed the drapes.
You did not want to know what grew on them.
 
——
 
What did you do for fun if you were a relatively rich [Lady]? There were a lot of classics that Damia had gone to in the pre-freedom days.
Drugs, parties with peers, and the latest entertainments, be it fashion, shopping, or just novelties like a [Bard] or performances such as the Players of Celum.
Plebian, now. Predictable. She tried, though, after her humiliation with Regis, to cheer herself up while thinking of some way to get ahead.
Now her mockery of her mother had come back to bite her; despite her woes, Cecille had isolated and secured something of far more value than Gorthes and the stupid fancy [Bakery] in First Landing. But what about Damia? She had no intelligence, no connections…
So, to the brothel Damia went. It was not the kind of thing she’d dreamed of doing last year. But now she thought—why not?
What was going to be ruined, her reputation? This was a private place. Even if rumors came out, so what? Even her own mother had intimated there was more to life than whatever Wernel considered good technique in the bedroom.
There were a lot of curtains in the dark, scandalous brothel called The Dripping Abyss. It was the most risque of all establishments in First Landing, and they’d actually checked her identity at the door. It was all shadows within, and Damia pushed past some black silken drapes to see bodies undulating on a stage, people wearing masks and checking out prospective partners, and, well, sin.
She smiled. There was a man dancing attendance on her with a black mask on his eyes, dressed up like some kind of faux-[Butler], but in a far more revealing outfit.
“Did you have any particular preferences, lady?”
“I’m interested in the most extreme thing you have.”
“Oh, someone who knows what she wants. Well…”
He had a catalogue with illustrations, very graphic illustrations, of all kinds of body parts and faces. Damia swallowed.
“You have, uh, Centaurs?”
“And a Minotaur. Some of our most popular entertainers are—non-traditional species. We also have a variety of illusions if you’d like to try them out.”
Dead gods, you heard rumors, but—Damia hesitated, but she was conscious of the eyes on her. She had not, in fact, done much more experimenting beyond Wernel and other [Lords]—or staff—around her age. But she blustered.
“Everything else in the world is dull. How about—”
Her finger flicked down the page, and she pointed at random. Even the staff member hesitated.
“Er…are you sure about Golthox the Gorgon? It can be quite—intense.”
“I’m looking for intense. I’ve been bored these last months.”
Either let her have experiences that made it worth freeing herself from Magnolia’s cage or all the things she felt she was owed! Damia took a breath as she produced her Merchant’s Guild card. The member of staff began to murmur into a speaking stone, arranging the assignation as Damia smiled, when someone crashed down the steps into The Dripping Abyss.
“Argh! Hells! My balls—my back! My—oh, terribly sorry about landing on you.”
A figure slammed down onto one of the guests exiting the building, leapt up, and strode forwards—into a wall. He backed up unsteadily as a flood of people followed, and Damia turned and saw none other than…
Calidus Reinhart. The amiably wide, blonde-haired Reinhart always had on clothing that seemed winestained or askew, even if he hadn’t actually gotten them dirty yet. He twirled in place, spreading his hands, and murmurs arose.
He had no mask on. Damia had a mask on, and she recoiled as Calidus strode into the center of the Abyss.
“Dead gods, it hasn’t changed! Mwah! My home away from—come in, come in, everyone! I’m a regular here. I used to be, at any rate. Terland’s Golems, this place hasn’t changed! Is that Espo up there? Hello!”
One of the glistening figures on stage waved at Calidus, and whispers arose. Damia’s escort nearly dropped his speaking stone.
“Dead gods, that’s Calidus. He’s not dead yet?”
“You know him?”
The [Escort] nodded distractedly.
“He’s a famous member—very generous with his coin and, ah, affections. Who are his g—”
Then he froze, and so did Damia, because no less than twenty figures had followed Calidus inside. But these were no regular guests with masks on. They had full-face coverings of cloth, black clothing, and an unmistakable look to them.
[Assassins]? Calidus spun.
“Don’t worry, don’t worry, they’re off-duty. New, you know? Where’s Calolach? Calo, my friend! I was hoping to book twenty rooms.”
The owner of the Abyss came out himself, and he stared at Calidus.
“You want to reserve us. For…[Assassins]? I heard they were all dead!”
“Who, this lot? No, no, they’re just, uh, employees! And this is a team-building exercise. Well, I say team, but that’s advanced stuff. Not sure they want to go for that. Let’s just get everyone paired up, shall we? You’ve got my card on file…”
He was booking everyone with the [Assassins]! Dragging them over by the shoulders.
“How about that lovely lady? Beautiful, believe me. Or our half-Elf of drugs and delights? No—wait—are you male or female? Well, excuse me! Let’s do the other side of this catalog then, unless you’re still tempted…? Ooh, is this a new member? I might have to introduce myself.”
Damia realized she’d been completely forgotten as Calidus dominated the room. She was trying to get the attention of her [Escort], who’d had to go over to help with Calidus.
“I’m terribly sorry, Lady. We’ll have your partner ready in five minutes—”
She couldn’t help but notice that Calidus had already finished his entire group and they were already vanishing. In fact, the [Lord] was mopping at his brows. He cast around, snagged a drink off a tray meant for someone else, and then spotted her. His eyes widened.
“Is that Damia?”
Somehow, he knew it was her! Damia turned bright red and jumped, but Calidus strode over.
“Aha! I knew it! Same hair style, familiar aura, same dress you wore at our get-together two years back. Fancy meeting you here! Kicked Wernel to the curb yet? Delighted, delighted, let’s never talk again, Cousin.”
He beamed at her, and she scowled at him.
“Calidus. You’re as obnoxious as ever. Do you always barge into places like this so thoughtlessly? There’s such a thing as tact, in First Landing, no less!”
He smiled at her, and she noticed he’d changed too. Calidus had always been quick on his feet, but he’d usually been amiable, practically redolent, and just drinking or flirting with anyone female he met who caught his eye.
Right now he looked…stressed. As if he were trying to have fun but he had too many things on his mind. He grimaced at the drink he held and took a gulp that reduced it down to half in a single go, then sighed.
“Thoughtlessly is the dream, Damia. As for tact…you know anyone can find out you’ve been here, don’t you? The staff sells names to [Gossips]. Which I don’t mind, but you seem to think that mask works. As for me coming in like a hot and bothered storm, I appear to have gotten my way faster than you. First time?”
She flushed as the [Escort] hesitated and stepped back, but Calidus just reached over and plucked the notes up.
“Let’s see who you chose, shall we?”
“Lord Calidus, that’s private—”
The man slapped away the hands, and his brows rose.
“Oh my. Golthox? Someone’s in far over her head. Have you been here before? Has she been here before?”
He turned to the [Escort], and Damia tried to snatch the clipboard.
“Give me that and stay out of my business—”
Calidus snapped his fingers, and now his eyes lit up.
“First time, probably tired of old Wernel, thinks she needs the most exotic thing in this brothel. Which you do not want to try with a Gorgon. Did you even read what you signed up for? It’s going to be rough; I’m really not sure if you can deal with Golthox’s, um, girth, and believe me, I’ve gone drinking with him enough times to really get a good look when we go to piss. Also, two.”
Damia hesitated.
“Do you mean he has two—”
Calidus rolled his eyes.
“Who doesn’t know that? No, wait, you didn’t know about Lizardfolk? Hah! Dear cousin, allow me to save you from yourself. Let’s just cross that off and choose someone…there. Lovely Gnoll fellow by the name of Nrram. Knows what he’s doing—I mean, one’s told. Educational. Put it on my tab.”
He handed the clipboard back to the [Escort], and Damia suddenly had every desire to leave. But Calidus just winked at her, and she glowered. They drew together and began to whisper.
“What are you doing here, Calidus?”
“Trying to get some new co-workers to relax. Well, employees?”
“Assassins? In First Landing? Are you mad?”
Calidus raised his eyebrows.
“No one stopped us. Assassins come and go. And I presume they need fun. This lot is dull as can be. Interesting—but dull. I got a ‘shipment’ from Chandrar. Fascinating that’s how it works, but I have to make something of them, and I thought, well, have any of them ever visited an establishment of such covert delights as this? When they said no…”
He spread his arms. Damia stared at him.
“That’s your reason for bringing them here?”
Calidus downed his drink, grabbed another as it came over, proving he really was a member the brothel knew quite well, and smiled. Without much mirth.
“Well, yes. I have to do something or at some point I assume they’ll just slit my throat or go rogue. I don’t know why I have to do this, but re-establishing the Guild—that’s my job, by the way, don’t tell anyone or do, it’ll be entertaining either way—is not easy.”
She stared at him. This man was the one Regis Reinhart trusted to…
“Why are we establishing it again? Why us?”
Calidus blinked at Damia.
“Aside from the fact that I think a lot of people want it back? Aside from the fact that it was a check on, well, everyone, and that we’re at the mercy of the south without it? Aside from the fact that a vacuum exists and one should be made because someone else will make one if we don’t? I mean, personally…I need something to do. And they’re far more fascinating people to talk to than family or peers of the realm. Once you open them up. Actually, I wonder if I can watch any of them in action. I have to admit, I’m curious. Excuse me, did any of them sign up for an open room…?”
Then he was gone. Damia Reinhart stood there, trying to come up with some kind of reply and realizing that Calidus was insane, a buffoon, but even Calidus was ahead of her in terms of everything.
She recalled he had his own estates, his own finances, even his own staff, although they were famously disloyal. Calidus was more established then she was.
It rattled her so much that she forgot to cancel her appointment. When Nrram the Gnoll came out to greet her, Damia hesitated, but she didn’t quite manage to refuse to at least see…what there was to see.
Which was an experience that definitely put itself as the #1 encounter of her life in that department and made her wonder what she had been doing until now. Someone with Skills and actual practice versus—
Then she realized Calidus had been right, and that soured her mood, but she did arrange to come back here later.
…As soon as she could afford it regularly. She hadn’t realized how much it had cost, but Calidus had put it on his tab.
How rich was he?
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was glad to see the back of Damia. He hated his family.
Not in a deep, philosophical way, like Aunt Magnolia. He quite respected her dislike of him and everyone else. Calidus just got depressed around them.
Even before they’d all gotten happily stupid, which he’d liked as a change for the better, they were just self-serving. Which, to be fair, so was he. But he didn’t like mirrors that much, and there was something predictable about his family.
They’d do what was in their best interests. They didn’t surprise. Magnolia surprised. The rest of his family just made him want to roll under one of their carriages after half an hour in their company.
At least he’d saved Damia from needing a [Healer]. A good deed for the day, astounding at his age, really. Calidus collected all the Ranks, the low-level [Assassins], after they’d finished their business, flirting with all the employees he knew by name at the same time.
“We’re supposed to be the exotic ones, Calidus!”
A Drake hissed in his ear, and he kissed her on the cheek.
“Well, now you can say you’ve slept with danger. Don’t be strangers! My home is always open to you—and we’ll be back!”
Not soon given how much that had cost, but he led the silent group back up the stairs and towards the waiting carriages he’d chartered. The Ranks filed into the coaches, all black outfits and that iconic look where you took a piece of black cloth and just turned yourself into a giant roll of fabric.
Cheap, effective, and…they sat in the carriage as Calidus sat shoulder-to-shoulder with the black clad figures.
They leaned away from him. He beamed around.
“Well, thoughts? Anyone see anything impressive? Who got to meet old Rilla? Oldest member of the Abyss. Sixty-two, though she doesn’t look a day over forty. Dead gods, her Skills—anyone?”
Silence. Calidus went on.
“Must have been someone in another coach. So, how’s it feel? Interested in going again?”
Nothing. The figures sat there, ready for orders, ready to be given commands. Low-level [Assassins] straight from Chandrar, Roshal, the new members of the Assassin’s Guild that Calidus was overseeing.
Foreign assassins. Not that Calidus was biased, but in time he’d have preferred recruits from Izril itself. These were from Roshal, and one suspected that Roshal might have ways to command them…if they really wanted to. But work with what you had.
The [Lord] laced his fingers together. Sat back. He tried to out-stare one of the Ranks, then gave up and blinked. They were immune to awkwardness or the need to socialize. Calidus exhaled.
“…Well, I hope you at least enjoyed it.”
They said nothing. He scowled.
“I know you were all virgins. Come now, that has to be something after all the training in whatever they made you do. Any fun? Do you lot even talk?”
Silence. He waited. After seven minutes, there was a voice from one of the eight in the carriage.
“It was…new. Good.”
Calidus smiled at last. He began extolling the virtues of the various ladies he knew personally and the lads he drank with. And he thought, in the back of his mind—
I need to get this lot on my side. Or they are going to murder me in my sleep. As well as all the older [Assassins].
After all, this was the Assassin’s Guild. You could rise to the top in a very traditional, pointed manner. Unless he changed the rules. And they had to be willing to accept said rules. Because if they realized that they outnumbered the Faces by far and that Calidus had no people besides them…
Well, the chaos to Izril would be the silver lining if this all didn’t work out. Damn Regis. But it beat being bored.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart’s estates were convivially unmanaged. His staff stole things. They quit often. He didn’t care; he had lived a life of parties, and until recently, he’d been content to waste his money and die in someone else’s bed or under a table and leave the world a finer place.
Then Magnolia had given him his mind back.
Drat her.
Of course, Calidus didn’t feel murderous towards Magnolia. If he ever saw her again and she wasn’t killed for her various involvements, he would probably shake her hand—if she let him touch her or gave him any mind whatsoever, very understandable if she did not—congratulate her on her survival, and ask if she’d put her Skill back on him. Beg, really. He had a lot of practice grovelling at the feet of attractive women.
He hated it here. And by ‘here’, he meant his head. His mind, which would not stop racing until he drowned it in drink or hit it. He hated how boring the world was when he was sober, how mundane things were.
How did you get up, farm every day of your life, then lie back down and not put your head under a grindstone? How did you—seem to enjoy the ‘little things’ he had heard life had? Perhaps money had ruined Calidus, or perhaps he’d still have been this unhappy if he’d been born a pauper.
He didn’t know, but few things interested him, and the problem with levelling was that it meant that things like alcohol or drugs no longer took away his mental clarity like they previously did. He was a [Genius of Sloth], and so despite resenting Regis for doing this to him, Calidus was glad the work was at least interesting.
Calidus did like a challenge, and the New Lands had been fun, but he didn’t get many updates given the mana drain stuff there. He’d enjoyed working on Rhaldon’s projects; the young man and Zeomtoril had produced some very fine natural aphrodisiacs which were making a lot of money. But Calidus had grown bored with the business as he always did when it was working. He was half-tempted to sell it off, but he supposed gold was gold and bought a lot of nice things.
Running the new Assassin’s Guild, now, this was a challenge, but it was not a happy challenge for Calidus because he felt distinctly unprepared, and he’d told Regis that again and again.
The problem with being an old ghost was that Regis probably forgot how things worked. He could get a bunch of [Assassins] shipped to Izril via Roshal, collect all the old members who’d survived, but this did not a functioning organization make.
Strange that Regis knew how to pull so many levers. Roshal makes sense; he has to have connections with any institution. But the [Assassins] in hiding?
Calidus had concluded that Regis had ties to the Assassin’s Guild and, perhaps, Circle of Thorns. But how many? He doubted Regis had tried to kill Magnolia like that; they might be Reinharts, but that had been a blatant assassination attempt of Izril’s foremost [Lady].
Then again, was it any business of Calidus’? He supposed Magnolia would have him killed if she knew what he was doing, but he was positive Regis would kill him if he didn’t do a good job, so there it was. At least the old man had thrown in some enticements for success. But…
“Assassin’s Guild. Assassin’s Guild. Guil-duh. Guillllld. Gui-el-do.”
His [Majordomo], Dorim, a former [Innkeeper], stared at Calidus as the [Lord] put his head down on the table in his banquet hall.
“Er, Lord Calidus?”
He wasn’t happy with the changes in the Calidus estates. No one was; the servants had to actually work hard to keep up with the near hundred [Assassins] living in the rooms, and more were going to come, apparently.
No one could tell how many there were; they didn’t exactly like lining up to be counted, and they came through windows as easily as doors, and oh yes, all of them wore damn masks.
There were a few Calidus thought he could recognize by voice and vague body shape, but the rest…? Dorim and the staff were terrified of the figures, just leaving food out and making beds or cleaning up whenever one appeared to tell them there was a mess.
Frankly, everyone would have quit except for the fact that they were certain if they did quit, they’d be dead. Like two servants who’d tried to slip away during the first two weeks and been found quite dead, quite garrotted, in the courtyard.
Then they’d been so terrified they hadn’t even left the estates until Calidus had gathered the [Assassins] to mandate that yes, the servants needed time off and not to kill them if they just had vacations. But the fact remained that everything hinged on the [Assassins] remaining under Calidus’ control.
…And the face-down [Lord] was not instilling confidence right now, but Dorim had known Calidus long enough to realize this was Calidus’ way. He was thinking out loud.
“Dorim, why do they call it the ‘Assassin’s Guild’?”
“…Lord?”
“Why would they? Prima facie, it’s to mimic the established naming patterns of everything else. Adventurer’s Guild, etcetera. But it occurs to me, [Assassins] are people.”
“Are…we sure about that, Lord Calidus?”
Dorim glanced at some black clad figures just…standing around. Waiting for orders. The Ranks unnerved him more than the regular [Assassins]. The Faces strode about, clearly with a purpose, ignoring the Ranks, but he got the impression the new ‘recruits’ might unnerve even the old [Assassins]. Which left him, Dorim, where? Calidus raised his head, a hint of a frown on his face.
“They do a job and, presumably, want pay, recognition, and everything else, Dorim. If they’re so different from their class…no, the Ranks are different. They’re manufactured, but even they need organization. That’s what a Guild is. Remember that poor fellow last night?”
Dorim shuddered. How could you forget?
 
——
 
Calidus was drinking and welcoming the new Ranks into his mansion when the doors opened and a figure fell into the room. Everyone had a blade out in seconds, but there was no attack.
Just a black-clad body lying in a pool of rapidly spreading blood, back laid open. By a blade? Calidus had stood and called out.
“Who is this? Are we under attack?”
Silence. One of the [Assassins] of old, an [Instructor] apparently, replied with a low, gravelly voice. She was female and checking the body over.
“The wound’s not fresh. They must have made it here on foot. No. Horse outside. Contract, then. Failed or successful?”
“You don’t know? Does anyone know who this is or what job they were on?”
Calidus spun, and there was dead silence. He clapped his hands together, annoyed.
“No, seriously, enough with the silence. Does anyone know? I need an answer, yes or no.”
After a moment, he got his replies. No. Figures shook their heads or went back to sitting and eating, and Calidus spun around.
“No one knows who this is. Where they went. What they were doing. Question: is this even one of our people? Were they really on a contract or is this someone who was fleeing vengeance against the Circle of Thorns and found their way to us?”
Everyone paused at this, and Calidus rubbed at his face.
“I need to call my grandfather.”
 
——
 
That had pre-empted Calidus’ call and then his decision to try to get the Ranks to open up by taking them to the brothel.
Both of which had been failures, if mildly amusing. No help from old Regis, that skinflint. And the Ranks had not proven to be very…friendly.
Calidus sat back in his chair as it creaked.
“We must have organization. What’s our progress on the buildings?”
Dorim hesitated.
“The rooms and training areas for the Assassin’s Guild, sir? Mostly completed; the building frames are up, but the, ah, senior members have a lot of requirements.”
“Well, we’ll have housing by the time the next batch rolls in. But damn—okay, I need desks. Get copies of those desks at, uh, the Adventurer’s Guilds. Paper, tons of it. Quills, ink, filing cabinets, and [Receptionists].”
The [Majordomo] was all hesitation.
“I—I can try, sir, but where…?”
Calidus’ voice turned impatient.
“Just go to a local Adventurer’s Guild, hire the best of them out, and ask where they get all their stuff from. Copy it! Set it up, I don’t know, in town. We’ll run it like an Adventurer’s Guild. I’ll have all the [Assassins] report in. Losmere!”
He shouted, and one of the striding figures halted and turned. She seemed annoyed he could tell who she was, but the female [Instructor] came over.
“Lord Calidus? I am b—”
“Yes, yes, you’re always busy. I’m having the [Assassins] register themselves in a Guild. You had a format like that, correct?”
She hesitated.
“We had…membership roles, and people sent us out, yes. But nothing like a—a standard Guild. We had procedures, but it was more akin to ceremony.”
Calidus beamed at her.
“Well, in lieu of any of that organizational stuff since none of you seem to remember or are willing to help, we’re doing it my way. Unless you’d like to take over? Well then, each [Assassin] will report and register with the Guild, and we’ll issue the contracts from there. Report in tomorrow, and ah, lose the black clothing. No masks. Plain clothes. Or someone will report the lot of us, and we’ll all be dead as soon as Aunt Magnolia finds the time. Or any other member of the Five Families.”
Losmere paused, and an ominous chill ran up Dorim’s spine.
“Lord Calidus, I do not believe the [Assassins] will be happy with that.”
For once, the jovial [Lord] didn’t smile along with her or acquiesce. He slapped the table, and his voice grew distinctly annoyed.
“Well, the [Assassins] are as helpful as cats with burrs in their fur and about as easy to wrangle! I admire the chill-down-your-spine effect by the way, very titillating, but my decision’s my decision. If you object, take it up with old Regis or just kill me, please. Until that happy moment, report in tomorrow or start rebelling.”
He waited, and Losmere nodded after a beat. Calidus beamed.
“Excellent. And on an unrelated topic, may I once again invite you to an all-expenses-paid dinner at one of First Landing’s finest restaurants? I know anonymity is a concern, but since we have to take off masks—”
Dorim stood as still as a statue, watching Lord Calidus once again trying to get Losmere to join him on a date. The [Assassin] sighed, and Dorim edged back, but then she tugged her mask down and revealed a very scarred face. The woman had short hair, a slightly snub nose, and she was in her early forties.
“You won’t find any beauties under our masks, Lord Calidus. Just disappointment.”
He waggled his brows at her.
“Miss Losmere, I am far from disappointed by dangerously alluring women. Six o’clock? They do a marvellous fondue.”
She hesitated.
“I don’t eat cheese. And I’m busy tomorrow. I’m…free today. Do you know anywhere with seafood?”
Calidus beamed. He was making arrangements at the best restaurant that did seafood which still let him into it in First Landing when he got another call.
“Grandfather, have to run. I have a date with this lovely lady with all these scars—”
He was applying cologne as Regis barked into his ear.
“Focus, Calidus! I have a job for you and the [Assassins]. There’s a damn Drake nosing around the southeast of our lands! I want him gone. Not necessarily assassinated—just get rid of him! If someone else wants to off him, let them, but the Assassin’s Guild needs to stay in the shadows. It’s a Wall Lord Ilvriss; ensure his operations collapse.”
“What, just like that? Listen, grandfather, about this Guild thing—I need support. Or else it’s going to end up with a dead me and a bunch of infighting [Assassins]. The Faces are clearly not comfortable with the Ranks; they’re used to outnumbering the ‘disposable’ assassins even if the old Guild got deliveries. If the Ranks start trying to murder them to take their positions, it’ll be chaos, and I need more help. Whatever you think—hello? Hello?”
The old man had hung up on him. Calidus sighed.
“Maybe once I’m dead he’ll regret being so cavalier to me.”
That cheered him up, and he began to think up gifts for Losmere. As he worked, Calidus tapped a speaking stone.
“Zeomtoril, my [Polymath], my friend! What’s a Wall Lord doing in Izril’s north?”
The grumpy genius living in Calidus’ home responded snappily.
“I’m working, Calidus! How the hells have you not heard about Wall Lord Ilvriss? There was a <Quest> issued on him and everything! I’m surprised no one’s killed him yet.”
“Quest? I must have been drunk.”
“You are ninety percent of the time. I’ll have someone take a file down.”
Zeomtoril hung up, and Calidus waited until a [Servant] brought him files. Zeomtoril loved his notes, and Calidus skimmed what was as good as a [Spymaster]’s report. Then he stopped and frowned.
Digging? Yes. He’d been there for months, and that <Quest>…
“That’s the [Innkeeper] who plays chess. I wonder what she’s up to. I was hoping for a rematch.”
He hadn’t heard much from her—not that he’d been paying attention, what with the [Assassins] and Magnolia freeing them all. Calidus read, and his eyes flickered.
Why would a Wall Lord dig in the north?
In that moment, the permanent expression of boredom Calidus wore behind all the smiles and vague amusements vanished from his face. His eyes lit up, and his lips curved upwards in a true grin. He peered around and strode for his library to find some maps and history books. Because he knew there was something here he didn’t understand. That was—
Fascinating.
 
——
 
“He is looking for Naamreles, the City of Purity. It is buried approximately where he is digging. How the Drake knows the location is a mystery. A…ghost may have told him.”
“A ghost.”
The nervous speaker hesitated and quailed as the older, more cracked voice interrupted, but he went on after a moment.
“Yes, Lady Ulva. That is our—our best guess. The records should have been expunged. Naamreles, the City of Purity, fell long before House Terland ever reached Izril’s shores. Yet it is not unknown to us.”
Lady Ulva Terland sat forwards on her floating Sanctum of Health, which had a permanent rejuvenatory effect on her body. She had four Autonomous-class Golems of the Glaistone set standing behind her, transparent crystal showcasing intricate ‘veins’ and ‘muscles’ of metal moving every time they shifted, armed with swords and shields made of Mithril. Dented; the same weapons they’d borne to war when the Terlands had conquered Izril an age ago.
Some of the most powerful Golems still remaining in Terland possession, standing guard over the most powerful living Terland of all, Ulva Terland. Head of her family, [Bereaved Matriarch of House Terland].
She sat in one of her inner sanctums in the House of Stone, the northern mansion deep in Terland lands where most of her family worked from. No [Assassin] had a hope of penetrating these Golem-patrolled walls. An army would falter and break before the mighty sentinels laying dormant in the Terland vaults.
Still. She checked her enchanted rings that were Relic-class items to protect from arrows, poison, hostile magic, and more. The [Historian], who had been granted access to Terland records, had been checked four times for weapons or dangerous items. Even so, if he sneezed, the bodyguard-Golems might not eviscerate him instantly.
Despite all her paranoias, Ulva Terland motioned the man on.
“So that’s what that damn Drake wants.”
Some of the Lords and Ladies of Hearts, high-ranking members of House Terland, stirred as they listened to this very secret briefing. The [Historian] wet his lips and went on, coughing; no one had given him any water this close to Ulva.
“Yes, Lady Terland. It, ah, it can only be Naamreles. The location matches the rough area where it was said to reside.”
“But it still exists? And—no one has found it before? Why to both?”
The [Historian] swallowed.
“Walled Cities were made incredibly well, Lady Ulva. How much is intact after all this time and the ground shifting is unknown, but it could be substantial. The City of War was said to be built out of pieces of other Walled Cities.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes, it’s a ‘last-generation’ Walled City by their standards. Which is to say, still exceedingly old. As for why no one dug up Naamreles, I don’t believe it was so much ignorance as the location being expunged from records. Thoroughly. Even our own.”
“But these are records from House Terland that date back to our presence in Terandria!”
She reminded him sharply. Terlands came from the nation of Levicus, which was no longer a great power of Terandria, but it had been one of the Hundred Kingdoms first founded. Their records were old. Yet the [Historian]’s face was grim.
“They were purged and the record of the purging attributed to ‘keeping the rot of Naamrales’ folly buried’, Lady Ulva Terland. I have run into similar such moments in history.”
“One assumes your class would rebel against the notion, Historian Vredes.”
The man ducked his head; he was balding, and the light was getting in Ulva’s eyes as it shone into the domed room with only a single window, triple-warded by barriers for security. He coughed as she shielded her eyes with a fan.
“It does until I read the reasons for such redactions, Your Ladyship. It’s rather akin to reading horror stories in history, even as dry as some of my peers can be. Moments that are merely heinous are recorded in vivid detail. But locations of dangerous objects or more…memetic threats are hidden.”
“What is ‘memetic’?”
“Threats that hurt you by the knowledge of them. Such as…certain monsters from Baleros, Lady Ulva.”
She did know of Bogleraums and shivered, cursing Petria for ever asking about them. No one else in the room got the reference, and the [Historian] was sweating faintly.
“Not just that. There are records of dangerous beings who had similar powers to appear before those who knew of them. Or just gained power from…there’s even a reference to a travelling establishment of some kind that was redacted. Thankfully, most such things are dead. Mostly dead.”
“I see. And Naamreles was one such, then.”
The [Lady] lowered her fan, frowning. Ulva’s hair was faintly green and the rest brown, like her eyes, but motes of yellow dotted her irises. A striking effect; the paintings of Petria Terland showed her with the same eyes, though she was always the dynamo in the old paintings of the [Twin Virtues of House Terland]. Before her death during the Second Antinium War.
Ever since, Ulva had reigned alone. Time had not touched her greatly due to her many protections, but she had a weight about her. Ulva drummed her fingers on her stone armrest.
“So that’s what he’s been up to. Well, we must claim that city after we kill him.”
A stir from her audience. The [Historian] protested.
“Lady Ulva, the warnings are quite clear! House Terland itself helped end the issue of Naamreles!”
“Really, we were in Izril back then?”
“It was an intercontinental threat, Lady Ulva! And I do believe your family was, ah, scouting Izril even back then. This was during the famous Age of Plagues where the Putrid One damned multiple Walled Cities! Not a long age in the grand scheme of totality, but a consequential one. I must warn you—”
“Yes, yes. But a Walled City is valuable, and I will not cede that if there’s potential there. But especially not to damned Drakes. Council of Hearts, your thoughts? You may withdraw, Historian.”
He had to bow backwards, and some of the other Lords and Ladies of Hearts spoke. Not all of them were here; Lord Xitegen, for instance, was too far away in Celum to be represented, but a Golem stood in his place, and it shifted and moved as he did.
Terlands spoke via Golems; far more secure than Wistram. They loved Golems. A bit too much, sometimes, but that was who they were. Ulva saw the first [Lady] rise to her feet.
“Great Aunt, if there is a Walled City there, it must be worth a fortune, though I don’t know if we should dig it up given the warnings.”
“The Drake is trying.”
Ulva knew Ilvriss’ name, but she wrinkled her mouth every time she thought of it. She sipped from some Purified Water in a special canister for it and grimaced.
“I want him dead.”
“Ulva, given the <Quest> and the potential harm it might cause with the Walled Cities—”
Only Nouzcrat was old enough to call her by her name. He wavered as she shot him a glower.
“The Walled Cities have grown too bold. First they strike our north, next this. Should we allow armies of Drakes to march past our borders?”
Her glare made them all know what she thought of that, but it was Xitegen who spoke up. Always the contrarian, damn him.
“I remind you, Great Aunt, that was because Tyrion sieged Liscor.”
“He never crossed into Drake lands! You warned that fool of a Drake, and now he’s dead. Where’s the Hunter-Killer Golem we deployed?”
Ulva snapped, and the room went silent again. This time with a hint of excitement despite the trepidation of what that meant. Historian Vredes hugged his notes to his chest, shivering.
“It should be in the area, Lady Ulva. It was successfully transported and set up and merely awaits activation.”
“Good. Have the command sent, and have it move towards the Drake’s location. I want a Heart’s Connection set up.”
Direct control over the Golem. Xitegen smiled thinly.
“Eager to let someone play with our Golems, Great Aunt? I’m not for killing Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
She glared at him.
“Xitegen, if you go on one more time about that damn Winter Solstice—”
“I was there, Great Aunt. There were that many Draugr, and every single member of my entourage has testified via truth stone repeatedly. That’s the only reason I can think for Ilvriss to be digging up a Walled City. The concern is real.”
Ulva drummed her fingers on the armrest of her throne.
“Then you can dig it up, Xitegen. You’re closest. But no Drake will be grabbing what’s there. He knew what he was doing. He dies.”
Her tone brooked no argument. The room moved as someone got up to arrange the Heart’s Connection link with the Hunter-Killer. It knew Ilvriss’ name; it would home in on him and kill him. This was an old weapon from the Terland vaults. The family was forbidden from using them and Ulva refrained from activating them. Drakes, though…Drakes were an exception to that rule.
“Well, I’ll prepare for war with Liscor, then. The [Innkeeper] will not forget that.”
Xitegen’s tone was light, but Ulva rolled her eyes.
“For all you speak of her, she has never troubled the north in any meaningful way, Xitegen. You make mountains out of a local molehill.”
“She’s never had a reason to come north, Aunt. I imagine Erribathe said the same thing of her until recently. But that’s merely the Kingdom of Myths. It’s not like she took on the Assassin’s Guild in Invrisil by summoning the Small Queen to war.”
Ulva’s lips quirked for reasons no one but her got. Dead gods, Xitegen annoyed her. He’d always been braver than his peers, because he’d seen the Goblins. But he annoyed her personally. She’d been glad he went south to do something and get out of her hair.
But she couldn’t help but feel that Petria would have liked him. For that reason, she hadn’t drubbed him down to a Lord of Function and allowed all his little madnesses. Well, that and he was high-level among them and brave.
Bravery mattered. She used to be brave. Ulva wet her lips again, then rasped.
“Onto more important matters. Has anyone found one of these—Earthers? How can we be the only group without one?”
The Lords and Ladies of Hearts shrugged. One of them cleared her throat.
“Perhaps they’re just that rare, Great Aunt. Or maybe it’s more of a hoax? I find it hard to lend credence—”
“Nonsense! Too many unique things are occurring. They have to be out there. I will have them. We have wealth and splendor. Have one found and furnish us with information! Have any of the Five Families found one?”
Heads shook.
“If the other Five Families have one, they’ve denied it to our faces. The Reinharts are all mad from the Winter Solstice, and Wellfar are busy with their war, but El, Veltras, both deny having one.”
“Veltras denies having one when the Wind Runner is clearly one of them. Either Lord Tyrion is a fool, which is true, or he’s blind and besotted. Also likely true.”
Ulva retorted, annoyed. She exhaled and leaned back.
“And they’re in Baleros. So get me another.”
“Funny, Aunt. You know there was this [Innkeeper] who I swear was one such Earther, but I don’t know if she’d be that keen on joining us especially after we killed her Drake fr—”
The Xitegen-Golem stopped speaking as Ulva bounced her cup off its head. She only threw it because she knew full well she couldn’t scratch the beautiful ceramic Golem. Even so, most of the others gasped in shock.
“Great Aunt Ulva!”
“Golems serve us, not the other way around, Alorelle!”
Ulva snapped at the recently-promoted Lady of Hearts. Eldertuin’s wife had mostly reached her status by virtue of his achievements, and she flushed. Ulva beckoned.
“Where’s the Mirror of Connections?”
It was wheeled into the room, and everyone shuffled to see it as it flickered to life. The mirror revealed grass moving rapidly underfoot in huge lurches that were nauseating unless you had experience seeing through a Golem’s eyes. Ulva squinted.
“Not much cover.”
“It’s under an [Invisibility] spell, Lady Ulva.”
“Hmf. Shoddy spell for a Hunter-Killer. What grade?”
“It’s a Grismel 3-8, Lady Terland.”
She grumbled under her breath.
“That would do for a modern Wall Lord, I suppose. I asked for noisy—it will be that, and messy too. Knife-hands?”
“Eight per, with enchanted steel fingers. And the legs—”
“Yes, yes. Where’s the Heart’s Connection?”
A far more involved contraption was the Heart’s Connection which allowed someone, usually a [Controller], to remotely operate Golems. Not all of them had this function, but Ulva saw half the nobles in the room raise their hands like children, wanting to be the one to use it.
Given their druthers, every Terland would take all the Golems out of storage and try piloting them or see them in action. Like a child with toys. And that would wear out or destroy even the most well-made Golems, so her job was to keep them from doing what they all wanted. But any excuse to see a true Golem in action…
Ulva smiled as it was brought out. She almost beckoned it over, then paused.
“I want this done privately. Only him and his bodyguards. How close is it?”
“A few miles. It should be—oh, I think there’s the camp.”
Everyone was peering as the bounding Hunter-Killer grew closer and closer. Someone zoomed the view in on the bouncing image of a Drake camp, and Ulva frowned.
“It’s light and busy. Hold the Golem back until it knows where this Wall Lord is and—wait. What’s going on?”
It was evening, and she assumed the Drakes would be finishing work or resting, but it looked like an anthill, all churned up. As the Hunter-Killer slowed and advanced, she raised her brows.
Not all those shapes were people. There were…cows? Stampeding away, and Drakes and Humans, she realized, as the view zoomed in more.
“What’s going on?”
Xitegen knew. He chuckled as she glanced at him.
“I believe it’s a cattle raid, Great Aunt. The Wall Lord is experiencing the hospitality of the local [Cattle Barons]. They take almost as much umbrage with him as you do.”
Her brows raised as she saw a full-scale fight in the Drake camps. Amused, Ulva sat back in her chair.
“You say this happens often?”
 
——
 
“Cattle raid! Cattle raaaaaaaaaid!”
Captain Osthia Shieldscale hated the damn alarm. Because it meant trouble, Humans, and most of all—she couldn’t kill anyone.
She leapt off her horse and plunged into the melee as she saw [Riders] on horseback whooping and shouting as they rode, scaring cows and trying to lead them away from Ilvriss’ camps.
They were stealing cows!
It sounded funny until you realized any good cow was a decent amount of money! Maybe not much in prime rancher territory, but a hundred?
And the Humans were trying to steal them all. Osthia roared as she flexed her wings.
“Get those cows back! Head off those [Thieves]!”
She could have flown after the thieves, but she was needed in the camp itself. Why? Because the Drakes and Gnolls of Salazsar obviously weren’t about to let [Thieves] run off with all that prime beef. So part of cattle raids in the north was sending [Riders] out to steal the cows…
While every damn [Rancher], [Farmhand], [Hostler], and Human idiot attacked the camp!
There were at least a hundred Humans throwing punches, kicking, and tussling with Salazsarian [Miners] and [Soldiers] in a melee. They’d ridden up, jumped off their horses, and begun punching heads.
Humans. Osthia’s hand twitched for her sword, but she just ran forwards and threw an elbow into the back of the first Human’s head.
It didn’t drop him, for all that she put her entire body weight into the blow. He turned as she recoiled, and his neck was gigantic. The bull of a man was flushed red and threw a fist like a ham at her.
“Ancestors damn it—”
She ducked, went for a leg hook, and failed that too. A Drake shouted.
“Captain, I’ve got this bastard! Let’s get him, boys!”
Wall Lord Dramm charged up and threw two decent hooks into the Human’s side. Two buddies charged with him, bounced off the [Farmhand], and hesitated. The Human punched Dramm off his feet and went in swinging.
“Hah! Take that, you damn Drakes!”
Osthia had never thought she’d see [Miners] losing in a fight to anyone, but they must have eaten well in the farmlands—and the [Ranchers] were good with their damn fists. Still, she was a soldier; the oversized Human went down when she kicked the back of his knee and folded him up. When he tried to get up, he discovered she had boots and very fast stomping feet.
Panting, Osthia whirled.
“Where’s Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
She knew he’d be in the thick of things, and there was danger here, even without blades. Someone pointed, and she saw a group of women sitting on an open ranch gate.
The Sisters of Chell were watching with complete amusement at the brawl between the two sides. Osthia snapped at them.
“Are you going to sit around or help?”
One of the Sisters, a woman with a tattoo on her arm of a wicked blade wrapped in brambles, shrugged.
“You want us to join in? We don’t do brawling. We do stabbing. We’re guarding against real [Thieves] and the like. We join and this gets nasty real fast.”
“They steal all our cattle again and it’s going to go to blood!”
Osthia swore, but she went running through the fighting. More [Ranchers] were riding up and jumping off their horses. When Osthia saw a gang of twelve wading into the fight, she did half-draw her sword.
“In the name of House Gemscale, halt damnit!”
They warily put their hands on their sides, and one produced a wicked butchering knife. Osthia had on armor, and she knew she had levels and training on these idiots. She was striding forwards when someone jovially smacked into her.
“None of that now. I take my eyes off the situation for five seconds and here we are!”
Nerul Gemscale had a bloody nostril, but he forced the sword back into its sheath. He and a group of [Bodyguards] were in the fray, and the moment the [Ranchers] saw Osthia’s sword vanish, they lowered their weapons.
“Too scared t’ fight us like men, Drakes?”
“I’m a woman and you’re dead, Human.”
Osthia growled, and she charged the group of twelve, much to their astonishment. It wasn’t…a good idea. She was no hero, and one on twelve? Osthia’s first punch took the speaker by surprise—she got two punches in, and one of his buddies grabbed her. So she headbutted them and probably broke a nose, which was great—until someone else punched her in the helmet.
Which hurt their knuckles terribly but did make her head ring. Then there was a blow to the back of the head, and she was staring at a knee coming up—
But Nerul’s flying elbow dropped the Human about to knee her, and he actually picked up the first Human and tossed him. When another man punched him in the chest, Nerul turned, and his right hook took the Human out of today and put him into tomorrow.
The [Bodyguards] joined the fighting too—Rubirel Guard who didn’t reach for their weapons, but grinned as the Humans took one look at their enchanted armor and backed up. Osthia blinked.
“Diplomat, thank you! How the hell did you learn to fight like that?”
Nerul smiled.
“I never was much cough with swords, but a fistfight? [Diplomats] have to know how to survive a barfight! No blades, Captain! I told you and Ilvriss: this is a custom, and the last thing you want is [Ranchers] taking shots at you or treating this like a war.”
“This isn’t a war?”
She pointed at the huge brawl, which was going to leave plenty with bruises or broken bones the next day. And it wasn’t the first or even dozenth time it had happened! Nerul grunted.
“It’s got echoes, but it’s how the Humans around here settle disagreements. Better than a real battle, you should know, Captain.”
She did know, but it was so damn aggravating—Nerul pointed.
“I think Ilvriss is that way. Come on, let’s bail him out. This is a big fight. Dead gods! Who’s that fellow there?”
They saw a Gnoll go flying over the heads of the brawlers, and then they saw Ilvriss Gemscale, in the middle of the action, trying to push back the Humans led by the only Human that Osthia had met who was bigger than Nerul. A huge, heavyset man with as much fat as muscle and who laughed as he decked another [Soldier].
Nerul exhaled.
“I think that’s no less than [Cattle Baron] Marvus Lischelle. Come on—let’s get Ilvriss out of there.”
They turned as the two leaders locked eyes. Ilvriss threw a punch and hit Marvus straight in the face. The [Cattle Baron] ignored the punch, and his return blow made Ilvriss go stumbling back a dozen steps.
 
——
 
This sucks.
That was Ilvriss’ first thought after the world stopped spinning. He staggered upright and decided he really, really hated the north. In general and this part of it.
Ranchers. Who knew they were this…ornery. The moment he’d come north, they’d picked fights, but it had only gotten to this point when he’d bought cattle; he needed a supply of food, and there was no other real way to guarantee a lot of good food given no one wanted to sell to Drakes. He could only—wait, that [Cattle Baron] was charging him—
Ilvriss had to throw himself sideways to avoid another punch, and he rolled up, panting, and heard the huge man laugh.
In a battle with swords Ilvriss wouldn’t have been worried, but this was a damn brawl, and he bet he weighed half of what this man did. The Human was tossing Drakes and Gnolls around and decking everyone not in armor.
“Y’all remember this is from the Lischelles! Good night, you damn intruders!”
He punched one of Ilvriss’ adjutants so hard the Drake dropped in an instant. Ilvriss snarled.
“Get out of my camp! Salazsar, to me!”
He and a bunch of [Miners] began punching forwards and met the [Ranchers] in a melee; Ilvriss ate another hit to the jaw and staggered back.
I really miss Liscor. Zel would have known what to do here. Actually, Zel would have probably been able to out-punch this entire damn group himself.
He had been a [General]. Ilvriss? He was a [Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence]! No warrior like his father, Zail, but a hybrid leader-economic manager. He almost fell as he saw a man raise his hands together like a hammer—
“Nephew, I see the problem!”
Nerul’s punch to the stomach made the Human puke—but Ilvriss dodged just in time, so the vomit just got over his tail, which was still horrible. But then Nerul was there with the Rubirel Guard! The [Diplomat] waded into the fight, and he dropped another Human with a kick to the chest.
Ilvriss grinned as Captain Osthia began bellowing orders, and [Soldiers] in armor pushed forwards and began handing the Humans’ tails to them. Right up until he saw the huge man in a leather vest and one of those stupid [Rancher] hats turn and size Nerul up.
“There’s a big Drake. Hoi, little man. Let’s dance.”
The [Cattle Baron] came charging through the crowd, and Nerul whirled.
“Ah—”
They collided, and Ilvriss saw Nerul go reeling. He was used to his jovial uncle being one of the bigger men in the room in personality and size, but the [Cattle Baron] was larger and visibly—stronger. When Nerul went to grab his lapels and headbutt him, the man grabbed Nerul’s wrists, forced them back, then began headbutting Nerul repeatedly.
“Uncle!”
Ilvriss fought to get over as Nerul kicked at the man’s legs, earning an oath, and they began to trade punches. Nerul threw a punch that turned the man’s head; the [Cattle Baron] whirled around and knocked Nerul flat. When the dazed [Diplomat] tried to get up, he threw a muzzy punch; the man leaned out of the way, hit Nerul in the chest, and Nerul sagged.
Then Ilvriss drop-kicked the man in the back. And he wished that did more than make the Human stagger.
Ancestors. It was like fighting Grimalkin, and that was not a comparison Ilvriss needed right now. He dodged backwards, avoiding swings that felt like they’d take his head off.
“Get—the—hint?”
The Baron of Beefcakes, the Rancher of Rawhide, the—he didn’t seem to be paying attention to Ilvriss punching him! Ilvriss went staggering back as he earned a kick, but he’d dodged most fists, and after the first flurry of swings, he realized the man had a weakness:
He was no [Soldier]. He was already sweating hard in the heat, and [Rancher] or not, he hadn’t been drilled to fight on the battlefield for long bouts. Ilvriss kept dodging and blocking punches, tiring him out. The Drake began throwing punches as the [Cattle Baron] backed up, raising his fists on the defensive, snarling.
“I haven’t even attacked—”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Ilvriss got one warning before the kick nearly went straight between his legs. When he leapt sideways with an oath, the [Cattle Baron] was running.
“Boys, let’s ride!”
He dashed back to his horse, swung himself into the saddle, and kicked off so fast that Ilvriss was still running at him when the [Cattle Baron] was riding past him. He rode like he was born to it. One boot knocked Ilvriss flat. The Wall Lord heard whoops, and then horses were stampeding away.
With the cows that Osthia’s people hadn’t saved. Ilvriss pushed himself up slowly, body aching, jaw screaming, and saw Nerul rolling over with a groan.
“That brings me back to my youth. Me and Mister Superior getting thrashed…ow. Nephew, I see there’s an issue.”
Their camp was in disarray. Captain Osthia landed, panting, but not visibly that badly dinged up. She helped Ilvriss up as he rubbed at his face, and he said it. He’d really tried not to say it, but…
“I think we might need some more help, Uncle. Is, uh, is The Wandering Inn busy?”
He’d tried so damn hard to keep it all working and not rely on the one place he felt like he shouldn’t bother. But between personnel shortages, the [Rancher] problems, all these damn nobles trying to impede him, and Drakes being their own worst enemy—he hung his head.
Nerul, much battered, just sat up and winced. He pointed a broken tip of a claw left, and Ilvriss’ head turned. He saw a [Princess], a little white Gnoll girl, a brown-haired Human girl with atrocious fashion sense, and a small entourage staring at him and realized he’d fallen in a cowpat.
Despite all that, Ilvriss smiled.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin had promised to help Ilvriss. In truth, there was a bit less altruism in the choice than she cared to admit.
“We’re all sick of the rains, even though it might be ending soon, Wall Lord. With Tessa settled, I thought I’d check in, especially since Nerul insisted you needed help. We owe you for Tenbault. And, er, it’s rather hectic in Liscor.”
“Trouble?”
He was gingerly rubbing cream on his bruises. No healing potions; he’d refused the ones she offered him. Lyonette tried again.
“Honestly, Ilvriss, we have plenty.”
“There’s a shortage, Lyonette. I can’t justify using one on me. I’m even digging with the crews; it’s not pleasant here.”
That made sense, and he did have a kind of charisma and business sense she admired. Though she had to say, his battle-sense for charging the biggest Human she’d ever seen in a hand-to-hand fight might be lacking.
Colfa certainly agreed; she was applying more balm to Nerul with a business-like attitude.
“Vall Lord. You are an idiot for taking on Marvus in a fight. Much less for keeping your cattle out like that.”
Ilvriss eyed Colfa, who’d come riding with Lyonette when she heard where the [Princess] was going. He tried not to snap.
“Miss, er, Colfa. We’ve met at Liscor, correct? It’s not my choice that damn [Cattle Baron] is attacking us! He’s only lucky we haven’t decided to draw swords!”
She raised one brow at him and leaned forwards to pointedly offer him a hand to shake.
“I am Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle, Wall Lord.”
“Val—oh, Ancestors. I apologize—”
She smiled without baring her sharp teeth. The Vampire woman ameliorated her fake accent and adjusted the scarf she liked to wear that hid her usual rashes; her skin was pale, and she wore black with crimson highlights. Fashionable, dangerous, Lyonette’s best friend.
And local to this area, it transpired. She even had a bit of an accent like the locals here.
“It’s been some time since I came home. ‘Taint like I miss it. But I’ll tell you, Wall Lord, what anyone with sense says: don’t make this bloody. The Lischelles won’t win a battle with your soldiers. They won’t try. They’ll ride up, shoot arrows, set bushfires, and make your life a misery. They do it with other [Ranchers], and it’s a bloody, bloody mess.”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“That’s what Nerul said, but the cattle raids—”
“You put all your cows in a pasture and posted guards on them.”
“Yes, and they knock down the walls, steal the cattle, and I’m not made of gold!”
He protested, and Colfa rolled her eyes.
“So, what you do, Wall Lord, is build multiple fences and hang colorful pieces of cloth so the cows don’t stampede through when they get nervous. And get some good dogs; they can also calm frightened herds. I’d have thought you Drakes would get the concept of walls.”
Ilvriss hesitated.
“Oh. I see. Ranching is…not a Salazsarian affair, Miss Colfa.”
She smiled at him politely.
“So I see. I’ll make some recommendations, if I may?”
“Please, Captain Shieldscale and my people can take your advice…ow.”
He tried to get up and winced; he was clearly not feeling good after the punches; his scales were puffed up or discolored, and Lyonette eyed his bare chest. Then realized at least one of her daughters was doing the same.
Dame Ushar handed Ilvriss a fresh shirt to Nanette’s disappointment, and he sat up.
“To be honest, they won’t even take my meetings, only sell me the same damn cows I suspect they’re stealing from me. Any help you could provide would be gratifying, Lyonette.”
She ducked her head.
“I’m completely willing to help, Ilvriss, and Colfa is too! I’m so sorry—”
She recalled when he’d proposed this venture to Erin and that the two things Ilvriss had needed were a Gang to back him up—and a noble to assist him where the Gang couldn’t. Ilvriss had the Sisters of Chell, but she was supposed to be his noble contact. And she’d let him go because, well, she’d been busy.
She had excuses, but when Ilvriss smiled in clear relief, it still hurt. He turned.
“I can, ah, show you around the camp. Let me just check on Brilm’s son. He’s at the [Healer]’s. Uncle. Are you alright?”
“It’s not the first time I’ve eaten a few bad punches, Nephew. Highly embarrassed, nothing more. Frankly, Captain Shieldscale makes us look bad; she barely appears rumpled from that dustup. Miss Colfa, do you know that [Cattle Baron]?”
The two Drakes got up, groaning. Colfa raised her brows.
“Who, Marvus? We used to date.”
Lyonette’s head snapped around, and so did Nanette’s. Mrsha just held a handkerchief over her nose. Colfa’s eyes twinkled.
“I used to live here, Wall Lord. Lischelle farms aren’t far; small wonder they’re one of the groups giving you the most trouble. Well, we own a lot of land. We’re all but nobles. I haven’t come back often, but I can at least get them to let us in. Though it might be—tricky. I didn’t leave the family on the best of terms.”
And she’d run off north to marry Himilt and become a Vampire. Lyonette had so many questions, but then they were moving out of the tent, and Ilvriss was walking along.
“Everyone in good enough shape? Well done, everyone. I’ll have to ask Alrric to authorize combat pay. Again.”
He was making poor jokes, smiling and grimacing, but shaking hands with Gnolls and Drakes who were nursing bruises. To Lyonette’s surprise, Ilvriss got enough grins or jests.
“We showed them. Damn Humans, Wall Lord. Er, present company excepted.”
“Saw a few of them break fingers on the Rubirel Guards and Erchirite Spears. Can’t we just march on them?”
“None of that now. We’re not trying to start a war…”
Ilvriss admonished one Drake and turned. A [Miner] gnawing on a butt of a cigar was thrusting away a [Healer]’s hands; he had a black eye and was glaring.
“If they want a damn war, let’s show them one! How many times do we gotta finish digging up damn pieces of pottery then punch a bunch of idiots, Wall Lord, huh?”
Nerul whispered to Lyonette as Ilvriss talked with the angry [Miner].
“I think that’s [Advance Miner] Georgie. Higher-level fellow. One of the people headhunted for Ilvriss’ special soldier initiatives, but he’s turned down all offers four times. Rather…hotheaded.”
From the way he was snapping back at Ilvriss even with superiors glaring, Lyonette believed that. She whispered back.
“What brought him all the way up north? Loyalty to the Gemscale corporation?”
Nerul snorted.
“Probably just better pay. We are paying a premium for anyone willing to come this far, and he, ah, might have a disposition that makes him harder to hire.”
Ilvriss seemed used to dealing with angry [Miners], though, which surprised Lyonette because she assumed he’d be more strict than that. But a manager of a big Salazsarian company had to have decent interpersonal skills…but it was a Drake’s method. Which was to say…them.
“Georgie, I hear your complaints, and believe me, I don’t like it either. Miss Lyonette and Miss Colfa are experts I’ve called in to negotiate on the matter. Let’s all sleep this one off.”
“Hard to sleep off a black eye, Wall Lord!”
“Precisely. So here’s what I want my [Forepeople] to do. Let’s have a keg brought out and a drink poured all around for every group that had to deal with the Humans. And you’ll see combat pay, as if these were mine-monsters. Acceptable?”
The bristling Drake hesitated.
“I suppose that’s not bad. The good kegs?”
“As good as you get in Human lands.”
Ilvriss gestured to a [Mining Forewoman], who nodded and began overseeing drinks. Lyonette winced. Well, giving your workforce free drinks and money was one way to deal with complaints…
“It’s very, um, corporate how the Wall Lord treats his people.”
She remarked to Nerul, and the [Diplomat] gave her a strange look.
“Corporate? That’s what we are, Miss Lyonette. They may be ‘his people’, but they’re not like your staff or members of your nation. They’re employees, at the end of the day. A brisk handshake and a pat on the back doesn’t earn much love, though you’d be surprised how many companies try it in Salazsar.”
She knew that! It was just—Lyonette shook her head. Ilvriss came back towards them.
“Sorry about that. We’ve had some, ah, interpersonal issues of late.”
“Drakes being Drakes?”
Lyonette meant it as a joke, but Ilvriss’ lips only twitched a bit.
“Sadly…yes. Turnover is very high, and not many locals want to dig, even if they had the classes—which they don’t. We lost a lot of our Esthelm Humans and Liscorian Drakes to what I now realize are preventable issues. Of culture.”
He glowered at a young Drake limping past him and swearing about Humans for some reason. Ilvriss stopped the lad and introduced Lyonette to a young Wall Lord Dramm, who blinked at her. And then stared at the ring on her finger.
Ilvriss hurried Lyonette off as more people eyed the [Princess], and Lyonette realized in hindsight she should have taken off Ilvriss’ Ring of Salazsar he’d given Erin. But it was useful and—
“I apologize, Ilvriss. It’s just that I needed it in case of trouble and—”
“No, no. Quite appropriate you should have it. Er, just rumors, but I suppose that’s as per usual. What is keeping you away from Liscor and the inn?”
She flushed, because he assumed they were leaving because of something and was thusly entirely accurate. Lyonette cleared her throat as Nanette piped up.
“That would be the damn elections, Wall Lord.”
“Nanette, language!”
“Sorry, I meant to say the fucking elections. It’s in the last stretch, and everyone harasses the inn nonstop whenever we appear. The Council’s fighting for their seats, and they have lots of challengers.”
Lyonette winced, but Ilvriss frowned.
“I thought we liked the current Council. Very progressive, very adaptive—don’t we?”
He turned to Lyonette, and she hesitated.
“Well, yes, of course. Elirr, Krshia, even maybe Lism, but therein lies the problem, Ilvriss. The Wandering Inn’s backing is, ah, not exactly a vote of confidence for many Liscorians.”
“Ah, then why ask…?”
“Well, they want us to do something. Create a Solstice event, offer Liscor a substantive break on door fees—and I don’t really want to embroil myself in Liscorian politics. With respect, we’re trying to draw a line between us and the city that way. Mostly, it’s them wanting us to literally unearth some monsters or create a new invention or some such.”
She sighed, and Ilvriss gave her a sympathetic nod.
“Fair enough. Well then, accommodations are not nearly as pleasant as the inn, but I’ll put you up in the best tents if you don’t have your own.”
They did, in fact, and Ushar and the staff that Lyonette had taken—all Calanferians because Goblins and Antinium would be more headaches—were ready for a bit of a trip.
All except for one. It turned out that one of the aces in the hole that Ilvriss had been counting on to help with his problems—or at least make life interesting—bowed out.
I bow out, Wall Lord. I must take my leave and go back home. Mother, I shall return tonight with greatest sympathies. It is not often I am routed before I find chaos or chaos finds me, but I must away.
Mrsha held up the notecard, and Ilvriss took it, mystified. Then stared at her face.
Mrsha the Menace, the Purveyor of Tragedies, the [Survivor of Fates], the growing darling daughter of Lyonette, had not taken a handkerchief away from her face except to write that one missive.
She held up another card.
This place stinks. It stinks so hecking bad how can you stand it I’m going to die.
The Drakes and Humans sniffed the air, and Ilvriss hesitated.
“Oh, the, er, manure? It is rather pervasive. And everywhere. Watch your step, everyone. I gather most of the ground is, well, just manure. This has been cattle territory for ages.”
It’s not just the manure. The ground stinks. The town stinks. I want to stick my head into a privy, and it’d be better.
Mrsha’s eyes were literally watering, and Ilvriss grunted.
“That would be the lack of any septic systems. They have a…pit. Where one empties their buckets or outhouses. It sloshes when it rains.”
Lyonette turned mildly green, and Ilvriss shuddered.
“No plumbing, and yes, there’s an odor, especially in some of the dig sites…the Gnolls tell me it’s bad for one week, then their noses stop working, but none are, uh, children.”
Taking children here is a crime, Wall Lord. I must go.
It really didn’t smell that bad, but Lyonette knew her nose was many times less powerful than Mrsha’s. She knelt down.
“Are you sure, Mrsha? I’d love to have you, and if you’re worried about causing an incident, we’re going to be very responsible here—”
Mother, with all due respect, I could care less if a second [Palace of Fates] opened up and swallowed me whole. At least that place smelled nice. I am going to puke, then make a nosebag out of that to feel better. That’s how bad this place smells.
“…Okay then. Er, well, we’ll have Ser Dalimont bring you back right away. Do you not want to stay at least to say hi to—”
Mrsha backed up. Lyonette shot Ilvriss an apologetic look, and he scratched at his head.
“Well, I shall have to make do with a Lischelle, a [Princess], and her trusty staff and [Knight], then. I hope we meet under more pleasant-smelling circumstances, Mrsha.”
She waved at him, and Nanette piped up.
“And a witch. I notice you haven’t commented on my attire, Wall Lord. How rude of you!”
“I see the polka dots, Nanette. I don’t speak on crimes against humanity, let alone Drake-kind.”
That made Lyonette smile. She began asking Ilvriss about his woes as he smiled and seemed to relax in their presence. Though it quickly became clear he did need help, and not just with ornery [Ranchers]. It really didn’t stink that bad, though Lyonette did tell Ushar to investigate baths for tonight.
She was informed Ilvriss had a few permanent shower spells via magical water rigged up. No plumbing meant you had to make a wood fire and heat a bath…in a tent. Oh, and they had a chamberpot for privies you needed to empty in the septic pond.
Pond.
Lyonette was an adult who worked and lived in the world. She didn’t let anyone do anything she wouldn’t, these days. Even so, hauling her own bucket over to the waste pits…
She began to wonder how Ilvriss had survived this long. The north, as it transpired, was not that pleasant away from civilization for someone used to a Drake city.
Or maybe it was just being alone and far from home.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail didn’t miss home. She didn’t like the north; in fact, she’d been drifting from city to city and not liked any of them enough to stay.
But she really, truly, didn’t miss home.
Not with the inn causing trouble and killing people, like an infection that couldn’t be stopped. That…that inn with that Human she’d once called her friend.
Erin. She’d been innocent when Selys had offered Erin help. Selys, the first person to be Erin’s friend in this world, and look what her reward was.
Her grandmother dead. Her city attacked over and over, and Selys homeless.
Of course, you could argue that none of this was Erin’s fault, that Selys had chosen to leave. Certainly, there was a voice in Selys’ head that said that. But she still saw Tekshia lying on the pyre as they were burning her, and Selys knew she’d never forgive Erin.
Not for that. Nor for Zel. Nor for…
She was poking at a wobbling abalone, not really hungry, when her belt vibrated and squeaked. As if they could tell she was brooding, two little companions, her only friends in this world, rustled, and Selys jumped and whispered.
“Shh, you two! I’m in a fancy restaurant! Here.”
She cut some abalone off and fed it into a belt pouch. Then smiled at a diner giving her a very strange look at another table.
Rhata and Haldagaz nibbled at the abalone and evidently found it to their liking, because they squeaked for more. Which was good because Selys didn’t have much of an appetite, despite this being a super-fancy restaurant in the north.
First Landing, no less. It was an amazing city, even if it was diametrically different to the Walled Cities. She was rather surprised no one had given her a hard time for being a Drake, but like a Walled City, you got non-natives enough that there were a few Drakes here.
Even if she’d had to get used to the comments. Most people weren’t overtly hostile to Drakes, but she supposed it was the experience of being a foreigner in Human lands.
Like, say, a Human girl who came to a Drake city where no one would help or trust her.
Selys stabbed herself with a fork rather than pursue that line of thought. She glared at her meal before assuring the [Waitress] that yes, she loved the abalone, delicious. Really.
She had lost her place at home, anyways. As an [Heiress], none of her old friends could relate to her. Selys had gold, but no job. And the job she wanted, she deserved—Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild—had been blocked to her.
By…her grandmother.
That hurt most of all. To realize Tekshia thought that little of her. Now Selys would never prove—so she left.
She left. She was going to make something of herself, up north. Selys had the coin. She had the ability.
Even without managing her properties in Liscor, Selys Shivertail was Rich, and you had to capitalize it. She’d merely been ‘rich’ with the Heartflame Breastplate generating gold for her and people like Keldrass renting it for absurd sums.
But with her apartments pulling in a tidy sum, and other investments generating income, she was wealthier than most other [Landlords]. The real profits were from Solar Cycles, though.
She had a stake in their company, having been the money behind Kevin’s bicycles. And that made her very Rich.
Kevin. Another casualty of being friends with Erin. Selys stared at her plate. Then she went to get the bill. She was in no mood for the food; she just tossed the abalone in her belt pouch. She passed by some Human [Lord] flirting outrageously with a hugely embarrassed woman with scars all over her arms. He was trying to lick her fingers clean, and Selys watched as one of the [Maître D’hôtel] tried to get him to stop or kick him out.
Who came up with a class like that, anyways? It was so…Drathian-sounding. Selys left and went stomping back through the street to the finest inn money could buy without being a noble, then began packing her things.
She’d just come to First Landing for the sights. She wouldn’t find work or a project here. Two little rats scurried out of her belt pouches after the Drake had found a sleeping tonic and used that to drift off. They ran around the room, concerned for her.
Someone had to be.
 
——
 
Haldagaz’s studied opinion on the matter of present events was that too much abalone would give you bad poos, given that the rats weren’t used to a seafood diet. He based this on his intuition, observations from watching the non-ratians of the world talking and teaching him without knowing it, and his reading of Selys’ books in her library.
And Calruz’s Skill. The [Honorable Prisoner] had gained a number of Skills to empower his little rat companions, who had been his only friends in prison. He was doing better, which Haldagaz was grateful for, even if he wished he could be with his friend and savior. The fact that Haldagaz felt more intelligent ipso facto indicated Calruz was advancing in levels.
However, someone had to be with their other miserable friend, Selys, who had no friends in this world. Whether that was by her own actions or the confluences of fate, who could speculate? It was not for a rat to moralize.
He might have vouchsafed, however, that Selys would have had a link back to Liscor had she allowed it. She had a number of magical safeguards that had kept her from trouble. An anti-pickpocketing enchantment on her bag of holding, anti-poison and an arrowward ring—and a new Wistram-made ring that prevented [Appraisal] and scrying spells.
Including the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Or at least, it made it hard to find Selys. Haldagaz didn’t know the specifics, but he recalled Mrsha trying to contact Selys with some regularity. Selys had not been…pleasant to the girl. So, Mrsha had eventually stopped. Which had made the Drake more annoyed for a week. But that was her choice, wasn’t it?
Haldagaz could not communicate these thoughts satisfactorily in any medium, even the squeaking of rats, for they had no language half so advanced. But he tried his best to communicate it to his sister, Rhata, who had been granted strength of body to match his acuity of the mind.
She ate half her body weight in abalone. Haldagaz sighed.
Bad poops it was.
He nosed around the room, peeking out the window to stare at First Landing as Rhata did what she could to help Selys. Namely, making sure the door was actually closed and locked—the Drake hadn’t done that. Pulling together some of Selys’ scattered possessions she’d forgotten so she picked them up the next day, and refilling her waterflask with water from the magical faucet.
In these ways, the rats liked to think they earned their keep. Why, they’d helped defend Selys from the machinations of other rodents, bugs, and even a seagull once on their long journey. Haldagaz’s mind and Rhata’s ability to beat up even a seagull meant…
…Haldagaz stood outside the window and rested a paw on the glass. He saw Selys tossing and turning despite the sleep tonic, still clothed, tears in her eyes. Rhata joined him solemnly, and they waited.
Such a miserable, lonely Drake. He hoped she found something out here. Something to give her a purpose. One should have a purpose. But even if they had none of that…they had honor.
That was what the Minotaur and his first pupil believed in. So Haldagaz waited for the day to dawn, curling up beside his sister. Abiding ever onwards.
 
——
 
Rhata’s stomach hurt. In the middle of the night, she had to poo bad. So she did. She had no idea where they were. The big horn-man was gone. She missed him.
But the food was good.
 
——
 
The next day, Selys Shivertail rolled over, stared at the sun blearily, then at the largest rat droppings she’d ever seen in her life. She went to toss it, because she didn’t feel like giving the staff that job, and tipped well, then left.
She did make one stop on her way out of the city, but it went as well as she had expected. Better, really.
“Excuse me, I was wondering if you had an opening at your Guild? I’m travelling the north, and I have a good amount of experience—I’m looking to upgrade my class.”
It wasn’t the most standard job application, but the [Receptionist] in the Adventurer’s Guild at First Landing could look Selys up on file unlike most smaller Guilds, and Selys’ resume was apparently impressive enough that the Guildmaster himself came out.
Guildmaster Winstre was a former Named-rank adventurer. Which befit the largest Adventurer’s Guild in the north, but it was hugely amazing to shake his hand for Selys.
“You were one of the Conquerers of Chalence, correct, Guildmaster?”
He was dark-skinned, a former [Sailor]-turned-adventurer, and he had a huge scar that became a starburst on one arm, which he showed her.
“Not one of the rich ones! Haha…well, that still smarts my ego, but yes. I got this from the boss monster itself. Damned super-sea urchin.”
“That’s really what it was? I mean, I read all the accounts, but…”
Winstre waved this off as he rubbed at his arm. It moved around slowly, and she saw it had very little mobility. She bet his bones were badly splintered, but he was still in great condition.
“That’s what I call it, and why not? Chalence had a lot of water around it, despite its proximity to the mountains. Perhaps some sea urchins found the magic there and mutated…whatever it was, it was all magic at that point. Monsters always are. Each spine could change, adapt, and it could disassemble itself and move through the inner maze. Fast as a Demon, too. No one in close-combat range had a chance, but, well…”
His lips twisted.
“Orchestra had the right Skills and setup to do the job. You know how they finally got it?”
“Via the water. It conducted the sound, and when they heated it up—”
“Boom. You know your stuff. But I wouldn’t expect anything less from a [Receptionist] at a real Guild. Ours barely qualifies sometimes. Half our people are either retired old guard or young nobles playing at being an adventurer with little to do. Unless the Kraken Eaters or a real threat pops up, in which case I have to pull both groups back and find active Gold-rankers to do the job.”
“Wouldn’t Cosmenaut the Duelist or Caleis, the Favor of the North, be around…? I know many have left—”
The Guildmaster snorted.
“You’d think, but Cosmenaut’s too busy defending people’s honor, and Caleis would slay monsters—but the nobles just go to him directly anyways. If it’s not on their lands…we have plenty of powerful nobles, but the Adventurer’s Guild is for rich and poor alike. And there’s not much interest in the latter.”
Selys nodded respectfully. That was a fascinating, if dismaying insight into the north’s famous adventuring teams. She also appreciated that he knew Liscor and respected it! But Winstre kept up to date on adventurer goings on. He leaned forwards, offering her some coffee.
“Tell me about the Horns of Hammerad.”
She flushed, thinking of Pisces, but she did. They had an enjoyable half an hour before Winstre grinned, then checked her file.
“I’d offer you a job, Miss Selys, but I can’t do better than, well, [Receptionist]. I have two Acting Guildmasters, but we don’t have the hours or, really, work for a third.”
“I understand. I just wanted to at least say hello in such a famous Guild.”
He smiled at her, then added the part she didn’t like, but was used to.
“And it says here you weren’t recommended by Guildmistress Tekshia. With respect to her—and I am sorry to hear of her passing—that makes it harder to bump you up so high.”
Selys tensed up, and there was a squeak from her belt pouch that made the man do a double-take. She knew this wasn’t the Guild, but she argued it anyways, like she’d done dozens of times.
“I understand that, Guildmaster, but she was my grandmother, and I think—you know how nepotism works? Tekshia was the opposite of that. I just need a chance! I’m overqualified for a [Receptionist], and if not that—”
He was nodding, glancing down at the file he held.
“I understand, Miss Selys. But I can’t give a recommendation to another Adventurer’s Guild. As a [Receptionist], yes! If you want one, I’ll write it up, but to take over in any Guild requires you to know the spot or…”
Have a recommendation. Selys’ teeth ground together, but she held out a hand.
“I—understand, sir.”
He got up and shook her hand, sympathetic.
“If it helps, there’s not much harder than Liscor I could name; a few Guilds—maybe, but those are because they’re underserved, not overwhelmed. If you want to get some real experience, such that anyone’d hire you, the New Lands are trouble.”
“I know. But guess who went the wrong way?”
He grinned ruefully.
“Well, those Wistram Carriages take you far if you can afford them…”
“Thankfully, that’s how I’ve been getting around.”
His brows rose, and he double-checked the file. Selys was aware how expensive the magical carriages were. There were a limited number, and you had to pay lots of gold to reserve one. Hundreds of gold for the trips she’d been on.
Well, she was rich enough. The Guildmaster walked her to the door.
“Ah, it’s Solar Cycles, isn’t it? You wouldn’t be able to recommend me to that place, would you? I’d love one of their products…you can get knockoffs, but the real thing would be a treat.”
“I’ll swap you recommendations, Guildmaster!”
She teased him, and he sighed.
“Well, then…”
They were almost at the doors when an impatient man shouted.
“I have a monster issue plaguing my ships! I require adventurers!”
He had come in and didn’t want to wait in line, clearly. But there were nobles and commonfolk in line, so Selys rolled her eyes at classic Human nobility trying to skip the line. Guildmaster Winstre grimaced.
“Hey, loudmouth, wait your turn like the rest of us commonfolk, eh?”
An annoyed man waiting for help from a Bronze-ranker for his basement turned and smirked at the nobleman, who was wearing a very odd dress. Selys frowned. Unlike modern clothing, which had taken notes from Magnolia Reinhart pioneering Earth-like fashion, his coat was bright red and had the oddest patterning she’d seen.
Red and white and gold, and there was a crest on his chest that wasn’t one of the Five Families or any major house she knew—and she’d educated herself once Humans had come to Liscor. And his accent was—
Before she could place him, the nobleman walked forwards and backhanded the speaker across the face. There was a gasp, and Guildmaster Winstre growled.
“How dare—!”
The nobleman snapped his fingers and a hither-to unseen [Knight] wearing huge furred armor strode forwards and knocked four more people out of line. He only stopped when an appalled [Lord] backed up.
“Sir.”
“Commonfolk. Speaking back to me! Taima, preserve me! This Gura-damned continent is full of strangeness!”
Selys stared as the…nobleman? From the Taimaguros Dominion nodded to the [Lord], speaking to himself. Then Guildmaster Winstre was striding for him, so furious he gave off an aura that knocked everyone back but the [Knight].
Selys didn’t wait for the fight. She had places to be, and frankly, if that kind of person was in First Landing, she was out. It made the Five Families seem like reasonable people by comparison. She got in a carriage and headed south, choosing a town at random. Searching for…something. Because, she realized, she could not be content with being unimportant. Not after Liscor. If she gave Erin anything, it was that the [Innkeeper] had ruined her on a quiet life. Selys had spoken to Winstre like equals because they were, classes and deeds aside.
Both had seen real monsters. Selys had seen war and horrors.
It changed you, even if you didn’t want it to.
 
——
 
Your first war changed you, they said. How much…she hadn’t known until she had been there and seen it.
She had nightmares. And she stayed up too late because she knew the nightmares would continue, so she woke at 10 AM and screamed once, then came out of her bedroom.
“They’re attacking! They’re—”
A passing servant stared wide-eyed at Lady Desinee El, and a resigned member of her family, who’d had this happen for the last three months straight, snapped.
“Desinee! Either see a [Thought Healer] or buy a silencing spell, because I won’t tolerate this any longer! I’m informing Lord Deilan!”
Which, of course, got Desinee a meeting with the overworked, harried leader of the House of El. The young Lord Deilan El.
He wasn’t that young. But he was compared to the previous matriarch, and he stood in her shadow, so he would be young, untested, and…and just not her.
Maviola El, whom Desinee couldn’t believe was dead sometimes. Not her. Of course, Desinee had loved and been annoyed by that overbearing woman, who had ruled the House of El with a flaming fist for over a decade. She had carried them through the Second Antinium War and into the end of an era.
Not perfectly; she and Fulviolo, her brother and the former house head, hadn’t kept El any richer than before. They’d made mistakes, but the two had fought wars against Drakes, Antinium, and even other Humans and won.
They’d been splendid heroes of another age. And now she was gone. Ridden off into the sunset and vanished.
Desinee considered herself lucky to have seen Maviola again before the end. Even if she didn’t understand her…it had been something to see the young [Lady] in her glory.
Even then, with all she’d done, fighting the Assassin’s Guild, waving that flag and burning across Izril, Desinee thought that had been the final flare of Maviola’s life. When she had been truly young, Desinee remembered how she had burned across Izril. Fought with the hated Drakes like Salazsar and damned Lord Eschowar and his lightning strike raids in the north.
So yes. Deilan El was no Maviola. But that was arguably a good thing for the House of El because Deilan had what so few of his predecessors had: good business sense.
There was a rumor the House of El was cursed to be forever poor. Which was not a real curse (the House of El had checked many times) just bad business. They were inventors, artisans. If they didn’t make what was wanted or popular, they had to tighten their belts. And tighten again. And then buy a new belt to tighten, which cost money they didn’t have…
Deilan, though, Deilan was the one selling Kaalblades, and wouldn’t you know it, but they were popular thanks to a certain Wind Runner. He’d taken the windfall, reinvested it, and there were other good factors.
“Noelictus wants more crossbows for their Veteran Hunters. As many high-end models as they can get. That border conflict with Ailendamus shook them up, they’ve found more gold, or…and we’re solidly in the black on bicycles, skateboards, and Earther-tech.”
He was speaking animatedly to a half-Elf scratching at her ears with a quill.
“I know, Lord Deilan. But it feels wrong.”
“How so, Zelonica?”
He frowned as Desinee waited for him to break off his meeting. Deilan and his assistant really were products of the last generation. Zelonica was the daughter of none other than Zedalien, the legendary helper of House El, who’d quit with Maviola’s passing.
She was ‘new’ to her post, which meant she’d only worked in the family business for thirty years, and at fifty years old she looked young. But she’d lived among Humans that entire time; she’d grown up running around with Desinee as the older kid, and Desinee quite resented how damn young Zelonica looked. Now, the [Production Manager] gave Deilan a helpless look as she showed him her spreadsheet.
“I keep adding up our budgets, and you’re right, we’re making a profit.”
“And?”
“…And it doesn’t feel right. Zedalien never had such a good year.”
Deilan stopped tensing up and smiled, and Desinee wore a pained smile too. He sighed.
“We owe it to Maviola. Her last project was the right one to back. Not least because Archmage Valeterisa is so famous.”
He nodded at a portrait on the walls, that of Maviola El. Not as she had been in age, but the fiery-haired [Lady of Fire] blowing a kiss at the viewer. It was rather provocative, but Desinee supposed someone had to remember the House of El had been that.
The rest of them were, well, dull. Deilan was a [Lord of Manufacture]. He’d probably levelled, but he was no Level 40 prodigy. And Desinee was a [Artisan Lady], even lower-level. Level 28, actually.
She’d levelled six times surviving the Winter Solstice. Which was why she was here. Zelonica excused herself as Deilan turned to Desinee.
“Desinee, good. We owe some of that success to you too. You being in Liscor and managing to get images and some of the parts of Solar Cycles’ work let us make our versions—even if they maintain a monopoly on premium bicycles.”
He grimaced at that, and so did she; the House of El hated being second best. They were the counterpart to Pallass; the creators of the north. He went on as she nodded.
“Not least, you’ve been there when Miss Griffin was moving around. Another asset. How is your project, incidentally?”
House of El nobles worked. Maviola had insisted on it; if you didn’t work, you didn’t get your allowance. If Terlands had their silly Golems they loved to collect and hoard and fight over who got to use, then the House of El oversaw projects, not land.
They had the smallest holdings of any of the Five Families except for the Wellfars, who lived at sea, because they devoted their time to workshops instead. Each family had a ‘project’. Some played it safe and made old standbys, like the automatically-reloading crossbows, and earned mostly safe incomes that way.
Desinee, as a married [Lady] with a young son to raise, had more free time for a bit of the experimental stuff; her husband, Irve, was always just making custom crossbows, the high-end ones that cost tens of thousands of gold pieces to buy.
“Decently, Deilan. We’ve put together a bicycle that lets you attach a little carriage for children. Er, but it’s not that safe; it needs far too much cushioning if you wipe out. And we managed to make a chain-version of the magical lifts that Wistram has.”
“Oh, a mechanical elevator? Like Pallass?”
“Yes…it’s rather heavy and makes a loud sound.”
Using the bicycle chains but adapted for more intricate gear systems just couldn’t beat magic. Deilan sighed.
“Understandable, but we may have some buyers. If we can pass it as ‘Earth tech’, someone will purchase it. I’m half minded to send you to the Great Plains to see if you can get a piano copy…”
“Deilan, I have Qibby!”
She protested; her boy wasn’t barely two! Deilan coughed and shuffled his papers.
“Right, of course. Doing well, is he?”
“Yes…”
He’d forgotten about Qibby. Desinee saw Deilan adjust his spectacles.
“Perhaps the air is good for the lad? No, no, a nursemaid could take care of him. It’s just that, well, you may need to go on a trip, Desinee. At least until the [Thought Healer] manages to work on those night terrors! We’ve had two [Master Crafters] complain they slipped while working on enchanting runes, and you know that’s gold when they do.”
Desinee turned bright red.
“I—it’s not that bad, surely.”
“It was the Master Rune of Animus.”
She swallowed. That was a thousand-gold piece rune. Desinee began to explain herself as Deilan glanced over his spectacles at her.
“I am trying, Deilan, truly! It’s just that it’s not as simple as soundproofing my rooms—they are soundproofed, and my chambers as well!”
It was just that she came running out of her chambers, screaming because she saw the Draugr charging at her. Sleepwalking ran in the El family, and Desinee…
Desinee had been at the Winter Solstice. She hadn’t done much, just activated some Skills and—and seen it.
The terror of that lady with three faces. The way the Five Families and Drakes had fought off such overwhelming odds. The Hag Queens—
The [Innkeeper].
Deilan cleared his throat.
“I know you’ve done a lot in the name of the House of El, Desinee. Maviola would be proud. But this is a matter of, well, work.”
“I—I understand.”
“Perhaps if you went on a vacation?”
Desinee hesitated.
“Qibby’s, ah—Qibby’s sleeping in a separate room at the moment. I wake him if we’re together.”
She hated to admit it, but both the boy and her husband had been avoiding her at night. Deilan was sympathetic and cleared his throat.
“Perhaps a solo vacation, then? To First Landing or…? You know, we could use someone to sell our designs. Maybe do a tour, hit Liscor again, and see if they have anything new. I hear Solar Cycles is back with a will. Drat them.”
He smiled, then gazed down at his hands. Desinee knew that the inventor, Kevin, was dead, and so their greatest foe was gone. But she couldn’t celebrate it.
“Maybe.”
“You’re quite good in the field, Desinee. Perhaps you should consider doing sales. Why, you’ve survived two major battles. The Village of the Dead and Liscor. Some are saying you’re a miniature Maviola!”
The field was what they called anything but their headquarters. She rolled her eyes at him.
“Maviola never had children, and I hate sales, Deilan. I’ll…consider a vacation.”
He smiled at her, then his eyes slid sideways.
“Wonderful. And we have a full catalog of items to show prospective buyers. And a bag of holding of samples—”
Zelonica was back. With a bag of holding and a bright catalogue in hand. Then Desinee realized that Deilan’s suggestion was actually more of what was going to happen starting now. She leapt up.
“Deilan! I have a child!”
He pretended to be working, and when Desinee dashed back to hear her husband and baby boy cry and wail for their beloved mother and wife, she found the boy solemnly watching his father carving a rune into a piece of scrapwood. It made the little piece of wood glow, and Qibby giggled, then glanced up. Irve coughed.
“Well, it’s terrible, Desinee, but maybe the fresh air will do you some good?”
Qibby, as a boy of two now, which meant he was a bit older than an Earther—apparently—nodded. She gazed at them in horror, and Irve, in his hapless way, realized he’d insulted her.
“I just meant that we have many prospective buyers coming, and you do alarm people, Desinee. It’s just a short break, and it is business. We’ve never done so well. Deilan’s even talking about re-enchanting the roof, and that would be splendid!”
Desinee gasped, then burst into tears.
“You don’t know what I’ve seen! None of you—h-how dare you all pretend I’m insane when—when—”
She stared around. And her lips moved as Qibby fled and Irve shuffled back, searching for Deilan. But Desinee just stood there.
“It feels like a great battle. I know it was. But the rest of the world didn’t see it. Pretends it never happened, like the Goblin King. Both did occur, I know it. We have fought and bled, and some of us died for the north. No, for Izril, for the world. Why is it all so peaceful?”
She gazed at her son and husband, and they stared back, and she realized she was the one out of place, not them. Marked by a war no one really believed had been that bad.
Change and change again. Desinee gazed at a little image of Maviola on her mantle. And she wondered what she would be in this new era.
 
——
 
At some point, you had to assume great events in the world were all connected. There was, apparently, a literal string of fate that you could see and alter.
He’d heard that from a [Witch], once. A dreadful [Witch] who’d dug her way down to the heart of the world and trapped an Old One in a pit of magic to summon until the end of time.
He should know. He’d done the digging. And she hadn’t helped a damn bit.
There was a synectic view of the world by which one could predict the future. Again—whatever in the name of Giants’ dangling testicles that meant.
No one used the expression ‘Giants’ dangling testicles’ anymore. That hurt him more than most changes about the world. Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer supposed that was because no one had seen one in ages. But he felt like that kind of thing should have been etched into the memories of mortals forever.
It was probably the third most upsetting thing to happen to him recently.
Number one, the death of his Master, the Putrid One. The final end to the most glorious being to ever grace this world, slain by the unworthy, mewling shits of a [Paladin] and her team he had ground into paste a fraction of a moment too late.
Two, the realization that another world had existed where his Master had lived and some alternate copy of him had pledged a kind of crazed loyalty to Erin Solstice, who’d become a living goddess, and that he was sharing those memories and charge to help that most wretched of beings in this or any world.
Three, the lack of the expression about Giants’ hanging testicles.
Four and onwards were probably being bested by a [Princess] in a game of gambling and being suckered into a Skill-based pact and being repeatedly stabbed by that damned Unicorn, but really, the top three were the worst.
Tolveilouka stood on the top of a local cliff, plucking feathers off a bird. A living bird. It shrieked and writhed, and he patted it on the head.
“Shh. Shh. I’m sharing my emotions, wing-friend. Like my kind does. This is how I feel.”
He plucked another feather out, and the blue bird screamed. Which made Tolveilouka feel better. He sat as some [Lady] left what he was told was ‘The House of El’.
Replacements for the Drakes and Gnolls. Tolveilouka sighed.
“Pathetic. Really.”
The trembling bird didn’t get it, but he did. He spoke conversationally.
“I could hop down there and wipe the entire place out in…eight minutes. Even if I didn’t get them all, the rest would die of plague thereafter. I was saving them, working up to it. First villages, seeding the area, then—topple a few of the institutions. Place a few Drake scales down, watch them fight. Now look at me.”
He plucked another feather and listened to the bird.
“It’s all her fault. The [Innkeeper]. She gave me a charge. Somehow, she knew that copy of me might make it here. So—and this is hilarious—”
His fist clenched just tight enough to make the bird scream, but not kill it; he needed an audience. The half-Elf’s face warped as he lifted the bird up, blood vessels bulging like his flesh which began to rot—
“Now I have to be helpful. Because that was the last thing my Master ordered, and she thinks I’m going to do it, despite it being another world, another time that never was! That pathetic little shit of a goddess…”
The bird didn’t reply. After a moment, Tolveilouka released his grip, and it panted, making a sound, begging for life. Tolveilouka sat there.
“…Ridiculous, really. It’s not my Master. Even though it was. Even if—no. It’s not like I have anything better to do, and I know who killed them. Those…dead gods. So they die. And that aligns with her request. Tactics. You fight a war with any allies you have. I even teamed up with that Silver Dragon once. It’s just—”
He was putting his hands out, gesticulating, making boxes. This was that, and that was this—he let go of the bird. It tried to flutter away, but it had lost a lot of feathers, and he caught it. Brought it to eye-level and smiled as it shook.
“—do you really think it changes who I am? For instance, do you think you are going to enjoy the next few days, little bird? Divine goddess of goodness and hugs giving me a mandate or not?”
It didn’t reply. But the angry raven who exploded up and pecked out one of Tolveilouka’s eyes did squawk. He fell backwards, cursing.
“What the—”
Wham. He went tumbling down the cliff he’d been dangling over, hitting every rock on the way down. He broke his neck twice, landed in a way that ruptured his spinal column, and above him, the raven grabbed the little bird and flew off. Tolveilouka sat up, slowly, as his body re-knit.
It wasn’t the pain that made him leap up so fast he sent shockwaves through the forest. It was the indignation.
“How dare you—”
He landed on the cliff, flesh bulging outwards, ready to rupture and obliterate anything moving with plague—
Nothing. No bird. No animals. Nothing for miles around him. Tolveilouka swivelled about and realized the forest had gone dead. The raven was gone with the bird it had rescued. He sat back down. Regrew his eye.
“Damn [Druids].”
No regular bird could peck out his eye that fast. Either that or a [Witch]’s familiar. If he saw it again, he’d…
Reflexively, Tolveilouka cast around. He spun, checked his back, then peered down the rocky cliff. He swivelled around, walked over, checked behind an aspen tree. Looked behind him again.
“No Unicorn. Where the hell is he?”
A bit unsettled, Tolveilouka went back to his seat. By now, that damn Unicorn would have snuck up and stabbed him. This entire area was his ‘territory’; the headquarters of El bordered the Vale Forest.
He really was gone. To those New Lands or further? Tolveilouka scratched at his flowing hair. Brushed it out.
“Well, that fool’s left Izril to me. I’ll cut a swath across his precious home! Even if that Dragon—wait, damn, he’s there again. But he dares not strike me in my Master’s abode! I’ll—”
He raised a hand, grinning, then stared at it. Lay down on the rocks.
“Damn that woman.”
He supposed he really had to do it, didn’t he? Be helpful. Tolveilouka’s cheeks bulged. He puked maggot-infested rot over the cliff. Then, gloomily, had to clean it up before it created an infestation.
 
——
 
Here was the thing. Tolveilouka didn’t have to do anything. If Erin Solstice in her alternate Goddess form came before him, all things else being equal, and pleaded with him to help her, he’d have happily ripped her face off and tried to plague even the divine.
…But his Master, the Putrid One, the great Zacheales, the ultimate [Necromancer] who would never be surpassed, Tolveilouka’s creator who had taken a pitiful half-Elf and made him into the ultimate servant, his love and adoration—
He had liked Erin. Which was fine! His Master could have bad taste. Tolveilouka had disposed of irritants not deserving of the Putrid One’s affection over his long life. Other servants competing for the throne of his master’s love.
Just…if that was all, he’d have let Erin live. The complication was that she and the Putrid One were on the same side. That was, against the dead gods. And they…they had killed the Putrid One.
Taken his ghost and thus erased any hope of his return. This was true; Tolveilouka had heard it from Erin and confirmed it via the memories of alternate-Tolveilouka. Thusly, he had six beings—or was it less?—that had to die.
No matter what, he would kill them in ways so horrific he had yet to imagine them. And that was the problem, you see?
Tolveilouka was not sure he could kill them. Kasigna had been…dangerous. She’d tried to control him and come closer than any other being he’d ever met. Her power was almost that of the Putrid One.
If he’d wanted to, and specialized in mere Draugr, his master could have summoned a hundred thousand in one action. With preparation. Definitely.
…Tolveilouka didn’t know how to kill his foes. He’d given it a damn good shot with all the traditional methods. He needed knowledge. He needed a plan, and he was aware the [Innkeeper] knew things about the gods he didn’t. They were on the same side. And his Master had told him to listen to Erin Solstice in that alternate world.
“Argh!”
Tolveilouka stopped slamming his head into a cliff when it collapsed on him. He dug himself out of the rubble and gloomily went for a walk. He ran ten miles in ten minutes, looking for something to torment, but everything was avoiding him.
He was still Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, though, the second-greatest traitor to half-Elves, the second-most abhorred member of their species to ever live. His master was obviously first.
The half-Elf told himself that. This ‘Irurx’ fellow? Nothing but a few-centuries old poser who did a few things with bugs. This ‘Death of Magic’? Bah. Young.
If they knew he was alive, the half-Elves would turn their kingdoms brown with terror. He was the monster who could do anything, kill anything…
And he had to help the damn [Innkeeper]. He ground his teeth together and spat one into the ground.
Fine! Fine. But he was going to do it as himself. The [Innkeeper] would regret his assistance. Right, so who did he have to help?
Giants’ hanging testicles, he had ulcers all over his stomach purely from the stress.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka went for a walk to think. He strolled along, past a plateau of stone he felt like he’d been responsible for creating. Going for a walk through House Veltras’ lands.
Wasn’t this where we’d had that knock-down, drag-out fight with the [Archmage of Tectonic Might]? Tolveilouka felt like he’d eaten a Tier 7 spell around here and had to crawl away from the fighting while his master took on the [Archmage].
Funny. There were Humans living on top of the plateau, now. An entire city of ‘em. You looked away one second, and…
 
——
 
High above Tolveilouka, Lord Swey held a sword in hand, his other fake-hand at the ready. For…something. His family and all the residents of his lands were either here, armed and searching the forest for whatever was out there, or ready to scale ropes and evacuate.
Something—he watched the trees in the forest slowly rippling as flocks of birds flew in dead silence. Evading the thing knocking down the vast trees one-after-another. In seconds. It was coming this way, and he’d sent for House Veltras’ forces, but Tyrion was on another continent. Swey waited, sweating—
 
——
 
Tolveilouka kicked over another tree glumly. There was…another reason Tolveilouka had to help Erin. His copy had brought back more knowledge with him. This was just personal.
A little aside as worlds ended. A realization—inference, really—that his beloved master, the Putrid One…hadn’t really cared about Tolveilouka as the world ended. An understanding, delivered to him, that he never had truly loved Tolveilouka as much as his creation and servant had loved him.
That…
Tolveilouka didn’t put that down to another world being different, or a lie, or something. That was probably true.
You didn’t live as long as he had with his master and not notice the signs. It wasn’t like he was a fool. Nor had he cared, really. Love was allowed to run stronger one way. The Putrid One was a [Necromancer], and he had created servants who were, ultimately, extensions of his will. Of course, Tolveilouka had seen his master obsess over other enemies, servants, allies—it was just that the half-Elf had remained constant, the winner by the attrition of everything else.
It wasn’t like Erin had to tell him. Or feel bad about it. It changed nothing. He had always been proud to be the Putrid One’s greatest servant.
“Did I want to be his equal, more than just his finest work of art and weapon?”
He didn’t know. The half-Elf stood, gazing at that plateau, and remembered looking up and seeing his master waging war with the greatest beings in the world.
“Perhaps I liked being a servant, you stupid Human…woman. It changes nothing at all, to me. Not a thing. I waited an eternity for him to wake. For that is loyalty. What could you give me, beyond revenge? A death against insurmountable odds? There is no future for me.”
Was he going to appear at her inn, waiting on diners while hiding his putrid nature? Play cards with Mrsha and teach Antinium how to roller-skate?
He puked again, black bile, at the very notion. Tolveilouka wiped his mouth and shook his head. He kicked a fir tree so hard it lost all of its needles, then stomped off. Minor tremors in the earth.
He would not be one of her pets, even if this version of her and he could ever see eye-to-eye. He saw the [Innkeeper] in her [Garden of Sanctuary], loosing lightning bolts at him.
No, not this version of her. And not this version of I.
There would only be—he stopped, and in his mind’s eye, he saw the [Innkeeper] sailing through the burning sea, spells landing around her.
Only that. Only calamity. Only an ending to everything, and an existence as long as any other great defier of death. Tolveilouka stretched, and he gazed at the sky.
“Ah. That I might do. Until I find someone who attracts my eyes, far more comely and rotten than you. A glorious little corner to infest and grow into something new, if I’ve the heart for it. Until then—”
He supposed he’d have to do her bidding. In his twisted, selfish ways. He’d gone so long with a master—he was out of practice being anything else.
Tolveilouka sighed. But he felt better. This was important, to take personal time for things. He kicked over another tree for the hell of it and hoped it really upset some [Druid]’s feelings.
He still resented helping Erin. He had to make sure she regretted some part of it.
 
——
 
The key was thinking correctly. It had taken some doing, but Tolveilouka had logicked his way into a course of action that made him happy with some deep thought.
He had to help Erin and her damn inn. True. But ‘helping’ wasn’t the same as darning their socks, killing a monster for them, patting them on the back, and tucking them into bed with a glass of warm milk, was it?
They needed levels. Suffering caused levels. And help, well—consider the case of one Lyonette du Marquin.
[Princess]. Slightly cunning. Ran the inn. Thought she’d trapped him with her Skills, and her mother certainly had a decent bit of will to her. Whenever he thought of going near the inn, she’d push him back, enforce that Skill with the weight of his debts to make him back off.
He knew it cost her to do that. There was a huge power differential between them; she was probably wearing her body down with the strain. Now, in theory, Tolveilouka should politely knock on Lyonette’s door, swear obeisance in all things, and end this battle between him and Queen Ielane.
Or—and this is where you had to follow the logic—he had to think about Lyonette and her best interests. Her mother was a controlling, manipulative harridan squatting on her pathetic throne, her lineage stolen from a Dragon. Oh, Tolveilouka had looked her up out of curiosity, and he knew Terandria, where he had come from. He knew her type.
She was probably ruining her children’s lives, tormenting them by her iron fist and rules. Therefore, the best and most helpful thing to do was…continue fighting with her and eventually make her head explode from the sheer strain.
Perfect logic. Tolveilouka had actually patted himself on the back when he’d realized the correct course of action there. It also meant harassing Lyonette was fair game. She had to level.
And, wouldn’t you know it, but a little undead zombie he’d pasted to the side of one of the High Passes told him that the [Princess] had left her inn. Which was where her mother’s power was greatest. Tolveilouka rubbed his hands together.
 
“Misery, won’t you be mine? 
Sadness, come and give us the time.
Go for a stroll under the deadmans’ pier
Our fates don’t require the eyes of a [Seer]…”
 
He strolled across Izril, readying a prize for the [Princess]. Plagues. Now, he was good at plagues. A good sickness, the kind that left you scarred, the ones you had to fight to survive, that was always worth a level or two in his books. You didn’t need two arms. Lose one and there was a free level right there.
Perfect plan. Perfect…he frowned as he tried to figure out where they’d gone. Wait, there were so many damn openings to that teleportation door, and he wasn’t made of running. Nor did he track spells well.
Er…
 
——
 
“Exchuuuse me, Good Missah! I was just wondering if you perchance happened to know the whereabouts of a certain woman I was searching for?”
Liska saw a lot of things on door duty. Lots of characters. But the half-Elf with the giant black mustache and funny way of talking got her to peek up from sorting people into doors.
“Hey, buddy, which city?”
“I was just wondering if you had seen—”
“Get in line or get out.”
Tolveilouka faltered. He rolled a gold coin across his fingers and presented it to Liska with a flourish.
“I happen to be looking f—”
She smacked the gold coin out of his hands.
“I’m busy! Shoo!”
She actually shoved him across the room with a [Lesser Forcewall]. Tolveilouka debated breaking it, but the damn [Queen] was pushing at him frantically. He shouted.
“You damn ingr—”
She flicked him through the door to Invrisil, and he went tumbling down the street. Tolveilouka lay there until a [Guardswoman] tried to arrest him for making a scene at the portal door. He kicked her in the shin, and she lay there, making a whimpering sound.
Tolveilouka got up. He folded his arms, then walked off as he tore the mustache he’d grown off his face.
“I actually grew it. Hair follicles and all. Perfect disguise. She didn’t even banter. Didn’t haggle. Does no one even engage with a bribe?”
This was now the fourth-most upsetting thing to ever happen to him. What happened to class? Style? He peered around.
“You. You there. Are you a [Warrior]?”
He stopped a likely-looking Human on the street. Captain Todi, on his day off, stared at Tolveilouka as he and Elia Arcsinger—who had no friends aside from Calescent—wandered the city. They stared at him.
“Er…yes? Gold-ranker, Todi. What d’you want.”
Tolveilouka looked the man up and down. His face fell.
“Gold-ranker. With a body like that?”
Todi flushed as Tolveilouka stared at his belly, which wasn’t fat, but not nearly as aesthetically pleasing as—
Todi punched Tolveilouka in his stomach. The half-Elf didn’t blink. Todi recoiled, and he and Elia saw the half-Elf’s taut stomach muscles moving. Todi went for a stomp and knee to the groin. Tolveilouka just stared at him.
“That’s your aesthetic? You should be bare-chested, sword on your shoulder, bearing your battle-scars! Even with your frame, it’d work! And you—”
He eyed Elia. Hmmed.
“Bare-chested could work, but maybe a huge, conical hat? Leaflike tunic and some accessories. Does no one have arm-bangles?”
Todi stepped back behind Elia with his instinct for danger. Elia just blinked at Tolveilouka.
“For…adventurers? I’m an [Archer]. Anything dangling would get in the way of everything.”
“Yes, but the style—what about [Unimpeding Accoutrements]? It’s just one Skill! So this is modern fashion.”
The half-Elf drew himself up and looked both adventurers up and down.
“And they call me disgusting.”
He walked off disconsolately. He’d have to find where that damn [Princess] was on foot. Todi and Elia glanced at each other. Todi peered at the door.
“Inn thing?”
“Mm.”
“Alright, let’s get the hell inside before half the city explodes.”
They ran for it. Tolveilouka ran southwards, because he had established Lyonette hadn’t come through Invrisil. Her pretty-[Princess] stink, one of the ways via which he could track people, was too old.
So that meant hot-footing it about four hundred miles then finding her. He sighed and started jogging.
 
——
 
Transport across Izril was easier these days. You had Wistram trialling teleportation spells across the continent, though most people preferred the enchanted carriages, Valeterisa’s comet-based delivery service, and the classic Overnight Carriages, whose industry was being harmed by all of the above.
Functionally, most people had to use an Overnight Carriage. Even Lady Desinee El; it was that or ride a horse, which the [Lady] could do, but not all day, thank you. The House of El might be richer of late, but they did not waste coins. In their way, they were the most frugal of all the Five Families; you’d never catch a Terland taking public transport.
Or a Reinhart. When Damia Reinhart tried to obtain transit south, she found, to her huge annoyance, there were no carriages to be had.
“What do you mean they’re all taken?”
The half-wincing [Carriage Matron] was a unique class in the Reinhart family. Vultine, the bastard daughter of one of the family’s trysts with commonfolk.
You might ask why you could have an illegitimate daughter in the Five Families, who did not practice the Terandrian tradition of marrying other nobles to ensure bloodline ‘purity’, and even Terandrian kingdoms let commonfolk marry into their houses with decent commonality.
The answer was that her father had declined to adopt Vultine when the [Maid] had presented her daughter, and he had done what mostly happened: given her a prestigious job in the family.
It had been one of her uncles that Magnolia had killed…who was it again?
Ah, yes, old Krallis. All that meant that Vultine might still be a servant, but she was allowed to snap back at her family, within reason, and her icy expression frosted over as she stood, levering her weight on an axle to take it off a carriage in repair. She had grease on her overalls and, rather to Damia’s shock, a lot of muscle.
Vultine kicked the axle and somehow got it to roll across the workshop floor to where a waiting pair of young [Tinkerers] hauled it off to be repaired or something. The [Carriage Matron] nodded at the chassis suspended by a lot of straps in the air; someone was actually swinging themselves under it for a look, which seemed risky to Damia, straps or not. That was a lot of weight to drop on you.
“There’s the only carriage I’ve got that’s not reserved or in use, Lady Damia. You want to fix it up to get it rolling faster, be my guest. Otherwise, every Reinhart your age wants one made and custom-fitted at that. You won’t have one for weeks.”
“Weeks? What are you all doing? You should be able to serve every Reinhart here with ease!”
Damia was mad. She tried taking out her pique at her state of events on Vultine, and the [Matron]’s eyes flashed. She swung her long wrench down dangerously and leaned on the huge thing.
“We had enough carriages to do just that, milady. Right up until everyone decided to carry on the family tradition of running into anything they don’t like! Lord Gorthes alone has gone through eleven. He’ll pay for that.”
She meant in coin. Magnolia had been giving an allowance to the family while she had them under her Skill, but that wasn’t how it traditionally worked; they had more of a ‘grab and give’ one where you used up family assets and then you paid it back or the rest of the family made your life a living hell. And you paid your dues to Regis if you needed something valuable he had.
“You should have reserved some for me!”
Damia insisted hotly. Vultine looked her up and down.
“You and Lord Wernel never use my carriages except to borrow a backseat for one of your little trysts, Lady Damia. You’ve no dedicated [Driver] nor do you contribute to the family wealth or power. You’re low on the list, and take it out on me if you want—the rest of your family will be on you when their carriages aren’t repaired timely. And they’re all learning the same lesson: back you might be, but invincible yer not, especially your damn carriages!”
She kicked another wheel off the carriage with an oath, and Damia hesitated. She eyed the carriage and only now noticed the rather distinctive holes blown out of the woodwork.
“What’s that from? Those are gouge marks…we enchant our carriages, so they must be from arrows or bolts. Enchanted ones that exploded and tore chunks of the body.”
Vultine paused on the third wheel and gave Damia a half-glance of interest. They’d never talked much, but the [Matron] grunted.
“Good to see that brain of yours working. Maybe I’ll have some actual competition around here in chess. Cosoi and Calidus were the only good players while you lot were stupid and dumb.”
“You knew we were bound? And that implies—you weren’t?”
“Sure. Magnolia needed the staff in good order. Doubt she could mind-blank the lot of us. What? We knew better than to say anything. She had the Assassin’s Guild at her beck and call and her staff.”
“What about Cosoi? Isn’t she in Terandria?”
She was weird, wasn’t she? Cecille had never gotten on with her, and Vultine jerked a thumb back into the mansion.
“She’s back. Diplomat as far as we go. One of the family who worked with your aunt Magnolia rather than fought her, so she kept her wits. Not sure she’s long for the world, but I’m not the one buying daggers. And like I said, your family’s not getting all its way. See this carriage? One of your cousins thought they could just storm one of Magnolia Reinhart’s safehouses with a few dozen of the house retainers.”
Damia focused on the carriage, noting the shattered glass windows, broken fourth wheel, and she knew they had the best enchantments money could buy.
“Who attacked them?”
“Magnolia’s staff, of course. Shot everyone but Lady Ethra dead. Took her two days to get back, and she didn’t bring the carriage; I had to send a team out special.”
Vultine spat, and Damia frowned.
“Ethra’s an egomaniacal twit. Even if she’s smarter—who’s finding Magnolia’s estates and properties? I thought they were hidden.”
“Sure are. When Lord Gorthes and Lord Ricule went to take one, the entire place was empty, lands sold off to one of the Veltras family. She’s not making your return to power easy.”
This all seemed highly amusing to the [Matron], and the upshot was that Damia had no transport. No [Driver], either, which Vultine pointed out again.
“You need a good one. I’m not letting some hamfisted lackwit drive our carriages. You’ll run someone over, and the Watch’ll seize my vehicle no matter what you bribe them if it’s a family. You lose a carriage, you give me enough gold to replace it or my workshop’s closed to you. If you want a custom-rig, you need to make it worth my while to upgrade it and maintain a berth. Just so we’re clear, I do prioritize.”
She rubbed her fingers together meaningfully. Damia tilted her head.
“You seem rather well-placed to make a profit given how much the family loves carriages, Vultine.”
Another snort.
“You think I chose this job because I love the family? I claimed it, and now I’m getting what’s mine. That’s the family way, isn’t it? Best of luck, Damia. I wouldn’t want to be you, a full Reinhart without the venom. I’ve placed myself quite well, and I’m underneath your deadly games.”
She saluted Damia with a wrench and smiled thinly.
“Oh, and don’t try the smooth-face on us. Everyone can see you’re floundering. You’re one viper in the flowergarden among many, here.”
That was the problem. Damia fancied she was smarter than Gorthes and at least a match for her mother if she had the same assets to wield, but her entire family was, well, Reinharts. She bit her lip, mind racing.
Everything I’ve tried—which hasn’t been much—has led to nothing at all. I need help. 
“You wouldn’t happen to have a good [Driver] for me, Vultine? I’ll take someone low-level I can train up. And I’ll remember the favor.”
“What, one of my lads? When we’re swamped? I think—”
Vultine nearly spat before Damia interrupted impatiently.
“I’m not Wernel. The Reinharts are back, and I imagine you know to hedge your bets, don’t you? Give me something. I need transport south, and a Reinhart repays her debts, good and ill.”
They were famous for that. People associated them all with the negative, but Damia was proud. She meant it, and Vultine hesitated, chewing on a block of some gum. She spoke out of the corner of her mouth.
“Trade routes are a mess since Magnolia’s no longer keeping them. This is some gum-stuff from Baleros. Comes in blocks. She got me two pounds of the damn stuff every month. Different flavors. I can’t get enough. Not everything we want is just more gold or power, Damia. Fascinating, entertaining things are worth more to the family. That one’s free. The [Drivers]…”
She cast a glance around, shook her head.
“Even if my lads wanted to take the class and job, I can’t spare ‘em. Nor do I have a carriage.”
“But—”
Vultine jerked a gloved thumb back over her shoulder.
“Here’s the favor: go find your Aunt Cosoi. Play very nice with her and she’ll help you travel wherever you need to go. I’ll expect something within two months if I hear you’re doing well.”
Then she turned, began hollering orders, and got back to work. Damia frowned, and her mind again remembered it was supposed to be doing something for a living these days. She closed her mouth, spun on her heel, and left.
Vultine glanced up as she saw Damia striding out of the workshop. She blew a bubble, and it popped.
[Gum Pop: Hidden Comment].
“That one’s smarter than her brother. Tell anyone interested in the staff she can hold her temper and take advice.”
One of her people glanced up from where he was swearing over the ruined frame of another carriage and took a lunch break. Vultine nodded to herself. They had to keep themselves safe, the staff. When the Reinharts were done getting all their energy out, they’d start clawing at each other again and the Five Families, and you wanted to be on the right side then.
So much more dangerous and tricky. But—the [Carriage Matron] and [Gum Chewer]—Level 24, incidentally—grinned to herself.
She had to admit, this was a lot more fun.
 
——
 
Think, Damia, think! She poked the sides of her head, because if she wasn’t careful…she stopped thinking!
Magnolia truly had done a number on her. Damia’s one reward for freeing herself from a lifetime spent under Magnolia’s aegis was this:
She’d levelled once.
She was a Level 9 [Incestuous Lady], having been Level 8 until the Winter Solstice. And her Level 9 Skill, the great reward for such an—an exalted class, was this:
[Think Harder].
Highly insulting. However, it was, perhaps, a sign of what Damia was capable of. In that…even without the Skill, she had learned how to engage her brain.
That sounded like a joke, but Calidus would have understood. After a lifetime of not thinking about much, whenever Damia’s mind actually had to work it was immediately apparent to her. So she could force it to engage in ways she believed other people couldn’t.
She engaged it now as she sought out Cosoi, who had a suite to herself in the far end of the mansion. Why did Vultine give her that advice? Assuming it wasn’t just to get Damia out of her hair…
One must assume that Aunt Cosoi’s a bit of a pariah if she worked with Aunt Magnolia. Perhaps even in danger of being killed, though I don’t know how angry the family is at her, and we’re not that murderous to each other.
Who’d be on her side? No one. And therein lies the…the…
She pulled something out of her bag of holding and paged through a dictionary until she found the word.
Fallacy. It’s so annoying not knowing the word for what I mean. Be nice to her means take her side or do her a favor.
But why Cosoi? The answer must be because…she’s had probably twenty years of being quick-witted while we’ve been idiots. Of course! If anyone has a base of power, it’s her!
All this understood, Damia changed tack at once. She returned to her rooms and put on her best dress for meeting her aunt. Something actually respectable not…Wernel walked in as she was changing and ogled her.
“Damia, where have you been all day? Want to have a quick—”
She threw a perfume bottle at him.
“Out!”
“What?”
His eyes were yellow, and he reeked of Hazyflower. She brushed past him.
“I’m not sleeping with you anymore, Wernel. Stop smoking Hazyflower and look around. We have more important things to be doing!”
“More important than sex? Damia, just stop thinking. Doesn’t your head hurt?”
“Yes! At times! Don’t you feel more alive?”
He shrugged as he stood there and called out after her.
“What’s the point of knowing how to do things better? We’re rich. I don’t need to figure out how to kill that bastard who slighted me at the pub and hide a razor in his food; I can just hire an [Assassin]. You know Cousin Girhel murdered someone and was hiding them in the basements? Mother had him dragged out of his rooms and beaten like a commoner.”
Damia half-slowed.
“Girhel? So he’s moved on from animals then. Huh. Sounds like Aunt Magnolia had a point. Is he being arrested?”
“No, just beaten, and they’re finding a [Thought Healer]. Mother says she’ll have him imprisoned in the family dungeons if he does it again.”
“I wonder if he’ll change.”
So the real idiots were taking themselves out if they couldn’t control themselves. Mindful of this, Damia knocked on Cosoi’s doors. A [Servant] admitted her, though the woman kept dabbing at her eyes with a handkerchief. Damia had a box of expensive treats Wernel had bought for her she’d repackaged.
What she expected from Cosoi Reinhart, Damia didn’t know. But the [Lady]’s rooms were unlike any other Reinhart’s that Damia had ever met.
She had a suit of Terandrian armor in the entranceway to her large suite; every Reinhart of station had a vast amount of chambers in the family manor, and they’d build entire wings for their space. But she also had a hand-woven tapestry of Terandria on the wall above. Pre-Creler Wars and likely authentic; it was dated by a little plaque just so you knew how expensive it was.
There was a dead lion’s pelt draped over another chair, and the head of the most hideous purple thing that Damia had ever seen was mounted next to a crude spear of bone lovingly hung on a rack. It was…
“It’s a hippo. One of the deadlier non-magical monsters of Chandrar. I shot the damn thing when I really wanted an Oliphant, but I was advised to not kill one or have every [Druid] in a hundred miles on me. The spear’s Cenidauian. I made it myself when I visited. If you want something of me, I’m rather not in the mood, Damia.”
Cosoi Reinhart wore her hair up in a Terandrian fashion with needles pinning the tower of hair up, and she was red-eyed. She had a cup of wine in one hand and travel-clothing on, even indoors, another Terandrian look.
Kaazian, with fur on the collar and hems. She had six servants with her, all of whom were red-eyed. Damia blinked and held out the box.
“Aunt! I was hoping to speak to you—is something wrong?”
“Oh, nothing, Damia. Just my [Serving Man], Vorghen. Someone strangled him and dumped him in the well. I suspect Gorthes. Kill his bodyguards.”
Cosoi put her cup down, took the box, handed it to a servant, and stared down at Damia. She didn’t seem surprised, and her eyes flicked to the doors, then Damia’s dress.
“Is this a social call from Cecille? Is your…delightful brother around?”
“Half-brother. No, I came on my own. I—am sorry for the loss. Did Uncle Gorthes really do that?”
“Oh, yes. He never could control his temper. It’s the most overt the family’s gotten. Three of my staff are dead, but I thought I’d convinced them it wasn’t worth the blood to go after anyone else. I might have to move back and take the embassy job in Calanfer again at this rate, but no one in the family can agree we need an overseas presence. It’s all grab, grab, blame me for choosing the winning side—no one sent you?”
A sharp look, and Damia realized Cosoi was all on guard as she poured a very generous cup of wine for Damia. The [Lady] held it and didn’t drink.
“I need a favor, Aunt. I’m trying to establish myself now that I’m—awake.”
“Of course you are.”
Cosoi didn’t appear dismayed or resigned, but faintly amused. She sipped from her cup.
“Your brother…?”
“Smoking himself stupid on Hazyflower. And I heard Girhel murdered someone.”
The older Reinhart didn’t blink.
“Magnolia suppressed more than just intellect. For the better in Girhel’s case. He was always disturbed, but she didn’t put down children even if they were rabid dogs. She had rules. A life for a life. He’d be fair game now.”
Magnolia would murder a fellow Reinhart? Damia shivered; they were a lot of things, but even now, she couldn’t see that being…easy or acceptable. And Cosoi was watching her, so she smiled.
“I’m not here to fight about Aunt Magnolia. You chose the winning side, Aunt Cosoi. Blaming you is pointless. I do need help, and I’m willing to repay favors.”
Cosoi swirled her glass around and peered into it.
“Helping the family is not something I’m inclined to at the moment. I’m not a typical Reinhart, Damia, and you’ll soon know what that means. I like travel. I am, in fact, a [Lady of Travel] in base class. Family’s dull. I suppose I could toss a favor your way since you’re the only member of the family who’s not shooting daggers or Skills at me. Dead gods, they think I got soft in Terandria. I’ve had to win fifteen aura clashes…a deed for a deed.”
“What do you want?”
Damia wasn’t sure she could do anything, but here she was wrong. Cosoi peered over her cup at Damia, then smiled.
“Cecille. Convince your mother to stop hounding me and have her talk to some of the others. Do that and I’ll do you a favor. Which is…?”
Damia hesitated.
“I could try that. I need transport. Something fast, private, even a [Driver] and carriage if you have one.”
“To where?”
When the young woman was silent, Cosoi sighed.
“Damia, I’m not going to give you that kind of help if it will blow up in my face. If you’re thinking of going to Liscor and embarrassing the family, it might come back to me. Your mother’s already tried that, and she got what she could.”
Damia hesitated, but she had to say something, so she shook her head.
“I do want to go to Liscor. Invrisil. It seems to me a lot of events are occurring around there, and if there’s any quick fortunes to be won…”
“Well observed. I’ve been meaning to visit myself. I do have a way south, faster than even Gorthes or your mother could obtain. But you have nothing to trade, and I doubt you have the gold to invest.”
A third pointed glance. Damia gritted her teeth.
“I do not…so some gold might be useful. I need a staff.”
A light snort. But Cosoi was pondering. She spoke abruptly.
“Get your mother to relent, Damia, and I’ll make you a deal. I don’t fancy staying in Izril while the family’s looking for a victim. I’m heading off. Chandrar, Terandria, even Baleros; there’s value to being the Reinhart abroad. Even Oteslia! It might be my one chance to visit Drake cities at this moment…but I can’t uproot my entire staff. I’ll turn over their employment to you. You’ll keep them alive and treat them well enough, and that will solve me having to pay for funerals every time Gorthes is drunk. I’ll even throw in some gold. Deal?”
She tapped Damia on the chest with a finger, and the young [Lady] hesitated. Her mother must really be more dangerous than she thought if Cosoi was offering all this. Or perhaps it was a way to divest herself of problems and shove them into Damia’s lap.
Either way, the [Lady] leapt at the offer because she had nothing. She nodded, and Cosoi plucked the wine cup from her hands.
“Splendid! Don’t drink that, it’s laced. Let me know when you have your mother’s word and I’ll get my end of the deal at once.”
Which left Damia with the unenviable task of speaking to her mother.
 
——
 
“Mother. I need a favor.”
Damia marched into Cecille’s study and found the [Lady] with a catalogue of, well, people and one of her own servants. The [Lady] scowled and spoke.
“One moment, Damia. Is this the best we have for security?”
“The rest of the family has already bought the contracts for a number of [Mercenaries] and [Bodyguards], Lady Reinhart.”
“Fine. I’ll select from the lot. I want someone who can beat that damned [Spearmaster].”
A visible moment of hesitation from the [Manservant] who had served Damia all her life.
“That might be—”
“Do it. Damia, I’m busy. I have no allowance to give you or Wernel. Is this a crisis? Please tell me you’re not pregnant.”
Cecille’s expression when she glanced at her daughter was of someone dealing with a hassle. Damia glowered.
“I need an actual favor, Mother. I’ve been speaking to Aunt Cosoi, and she’d like—”
Cecille’s eyes flickered, sliding right to left and then focusing on Damia and something else in a moment.
“No.”
“I haven’t even—”
“You want me to ‘forgive’ her as a favor to Cosoi. No. I’m not sure if she’s impressed you or you think this is clever, Damia, but I really am busy. I can’t waste time speaking with you if you’re going to be as slow as Wernel.”
That stung so much Damia halted, and her eyes narrowed. Slow? She began again.
“It’s true I have some—”
“There is no incentive. Hence the ‘no’.”
Cecille cut her daughter off again, and this time, the younger Reinhart tilted her head. And Cecille, watching Damia’s angry, petulant face out of the corner of one eye, saw Damia frown. And think.
“Mother, I need help, and I’m thinking again. Surely—”
“It is personal. She didn’t stand with us, and she has had twenty years of clearheadedness while we lost it all!”
Cecille snapped. She hunted for a cigarette, annoyed. Damia’s eyes flickered.
“Familial love? If you gave me a small loan of ten thousand—”
“Hah! If I were set up, I might consider it. We are grabbing, and I’m wrestling with your aunts and uncles for primacy. You’ll benefit from that, so no.”
They were speaking faster now, and Cecille realized her daughter could keep up with her. Damia frowned mightily.
“I’m an asset. Clearly staffing is a priority, and no one’s capable in our employ. I, though—”
“Questionable loyalty.”
“Have I ever done anything against—?”
“No, and a negative does not prove loyalty. You and Wernel are net-negatives. The sex. Ugh. Did you visit a brothel?”
“I—yes—”
“Splendid, maybe that will deal with the issue. At least you’re not murdering. You know about—”
“Yes, Wernel told me.”
“I will disinherit you if you’re that stupid.”
“Noted. I don’t see the point. If it’s someone I don’t hate.”
Silence. Mother and daughter glanced at each other, and now there was something in the air that the watching [Serving Man] could see. That old Reinhart intellect, fast as striking snakes. He…backed up a bit. Sometimes, they worked together. Sometimes, they fought and ate each other. Again, like snakes.
Cecille lit a cigarette up and blew some smoke out.
“Well then. You’re showing promise. But again: it’s personal. Cosoi. Why would I relent and spend social capital?”
Damia thought. She had nothing to use. No assets, nothing but her relationship with her mother. Like Calidus, Vultine, everyone knew—her eyes narrowed. She smiled.
“I’ll stop sleeping with Wernel.”
Cecille’s head snapped around. She looked Damia up and down.
“Temporarily?”
“Permanently.”
“That’s no incentive.”
“Help me in this, Mother. Or I’ll marry him.”
Cecille’s eyes narrowed.
“Ridiculous. You’re too smart for that.”
Damia innocently batted her eyes.
“I could get it arranged very fast, and you can’t stop me, busy as you are. Every noble will know about that.”
A threat, not a bribe. Cecille thought about how much her reputation might suffer if her daughter and son—even if they were half-siblings—married each other. She blew some smoke out.
“That’s not a bad threat. I want a promise on a truth stone.”
“Done! And your word that Aunt Cosoi’s left alone?”
The [Lady] growled as she chewed on her cigarette, but she jerked her head at last, sighing.
“She’s not worth trading blows with. Agreed. Go tell your brother. Oh, and Damia?”
The young woman halted as she was striding for the door, a victorious smile on her lips. Cecille gave her the oddest of gazes.
“Not bad. I was half your age when I threatened my parents for the first time, of course. But given Magnolia, not bad. Do it again and I’ll teach you a lesson.”
That was as close to affection as she and Damia had shared in a while. They hurried off since neither wanted to comment on it.
 
——
 
Wernel took the news well. He peered at Damia.
“Okay. What, forever?”
When she assured him this was the case, he sighed.
“I’ll have to build one of those…harems, then. There’s plenty of attractive women. Way more than you, Damia.”
She knew he was saying that to get a rise out of her, and his peeking at her as she rolled her eyes and walked off made it obvious.
 
——
 
Cosoi was far more complimentary. She spun.
“You already convinced your mother? I thought you’d have to work on her for at least a week. How?”
“I threatened to marry Wernel.”
The [Lady of Travels] threw back her head and actually laughed.
“Hah! Clever! You might be a real Reinhart after all, Damia. Well then, I have some packing to do. Binevy, take a list of everyone who wants to leave and everyone who wants to either join the regular staff or Damia’s employ. Transfer two thousand gold pieces to her account via the Merchant’s Guild.”
“Only two thousand?”
Damia was a bit crestfallen, but Cosoi gave her a level look.
“The rest of my favor is worth more, and that is a lot of gold you earned from a very short deed, Damia. Learn what it means. Most of the family doesn’t understand wealth. That’s my tip. I have to pack.”
She was striding into her rooms, and Damia followed as Binevy presented herself.
“I’m Lady Cosoi’s [House Head], Lady Damia. Level 16 with Vorghen’s passing. I’ll be working for you as I don’t travel. Here is a list of servants who shall serve you in House Reinhart.”
She had a file, and Damia skimmed it as she followed Cosoi.
“Do I have your suite, Aunt Cosoi?”
“Hah!”
Damn. Damia’s heart sank as she saw very little of value on the list of servants; just low-level [Servants] with the base class, all under Level 20, half under Level 10. Young. Binevy herself seemed to be Damia’s age or younger.
I’ll make do. We’re all low-level, and that means we’re adaptable. Capable of growth. Everyone will underestimate us, and now I have some funds to work with and…
“Aunt Cosoi, I want to be going as soon as I can. What about transport?”
The older [Lady] glanced over her shoulders as she pointedly barred the door with an arm.
“Oh, that. Taken care of.”
“Ah, then you have a carriage?”
“No, I don’t bother with the damn things. I never got the family obsession. You’ll be taking commercial transport.”
“But—”
That outraged Damia’s sensibilities! She needed privacy, security! She was about to insist Cosoi hold up her end of the bargain when Cosoi handed her something.
A black card. Jet black, glossy, a rectangle with nothing visible on either side. Right up until Cosoi produced a little quill and brushed the bright feather’s end over the card.
She revealed, like someone sweeping ash off metal, the outline of a coach. Then she showed Damia the other end of the quill.
“It needs no ink. You write where you are, and the card will note how long for pickup; it can take days if it’s not heading the right way. But it will beat Gorthes’ carriage and anything else. Binevy, go with Damia and tell her the rules. Don’t break them or the driver will kill you.”
“What is this?”
Damia felt the magic in it, and Cosoi smiled.
“That’s the Unmarked Coach, Damia. I’m on the list of clients, and believe me, it is worth far more than you think.”
Then she turned and slammed the door to her study. She called out from within.
“I’ll want it back when I return to Izril!”
 
——
 
Damia had to do some reading up on the Unmarked Coach, and what she found impressed her greatly. Not that there was a book on such things you could read in a normal library, but the Reinhart family mansion had a lot of…dossiers.
Up-to-date information from [Spies] or their other contacts that they put in, well, a library format. The head [Librarian] was a musty old man, Grahaven, who glared and didn’t care if you got the files messed up; he had the master copies, and he’d just charge you for them.
“Apparently, it’s been out-of-service for quite some time, Lady Damia. But it’s active again.”
“I see. So we just wait and it picks us up? And there’s no fee?”
The [House Head] ducked her head.
“I believe any fee is already paid to obtain the card. Or you’re charged once you use the service enough. You will be informed.”
Well, that meant Damia had better get good use out of it. They stood outside House Reinhart a few hours later; as luck would have it, the Unmarked Coach had claimed to be ‘only’ a few hundred miles away, but crucially, heading southwards.
It was hard to believe anything was that fast…until Damia saw the coach riding hell-for-leather down the road.
A very annoyed woman with dusky skin and a top-hat was whipping a pair of black stallions and leaving a dust-cloud in her wake. She was racing down the road as another carriage tried to ram her from the side. But she was outspeeding none other than—
“Is that Uncle Gorthes?”
The angry [Lord] was trying to run the offending Unmarked Coach off the road; it had probably refused to yield for him. However, he couldn’t keep up! His coach accelerated as he used a Skill to catch up, and he went to ram the Unmarked Coach.
He had spikes on his wheels, designed to snap and break another coach, and visible metal reinforcing his carriage as his team of six horses screamed and tried to race faster while he whipped at them. In response, the driver of the Unmarked Coach, who was named ‘Karsaeu the Unmarked’ by the Driver’s Guild according to her file, pulled a strange move.
She let Gorthes swing towards her, then pulled away. Which meant he turned far too hard, expecting to slam into her, and the movement at such high speeds—
His wheels were not the rubber, compact wheels of another world. They were big round ones made of enchanted wood, which meant they had excellent grip and durability, but they still obeyed the laws of physics.
All that weight on such a narrow edge…the carriage overbalanced and then rolled. The horses tore loose from the yokes designed to snap free rather than kill them in just such emergencies, and Damia and Binevy winced.
Her uncle had been in the driver’s seat. He lay on the ground, hurled a dozen paces from the carriage, and Damia wondered if he was dead…until she heard the distant swearing.
“There goes another job for Vultine. I suppose this coach is as good as they say.”
The Unmarked Coach slowed, and the very annoyed driver snapped down at Damia.
“Get in.”
Damia opened her mouth to say something, and her brain activated. She closed her mouth, got in the carriage, and it took off.
 
——
 
The inside of the Unmarked Coach showed none of the racing speed of outside, and Damia had to crack a window to see how fast they were going twice. She was very impressed—even if she didn’t like the company.
Four people in the coach. A fastidious, short woman who was writing in a notepad, ink on her fingers; a rather uncomfortable nobleman, who eyed Damia then instantly tried to cover his face and pretend he didn’t know her; and two [Gang Leaders], who were regulars. Male and female.
“Oi, first time in the Unmarked Coach? How the hell are people getting invites? I had to kill for this.”
Damia didn’t interact with commonfolk much, but one glance at the scarred hand that extended and she shook it gingerly.
“We are new, yes.”
She knew better than to give names, and in that sense, she was a smarter passenger than a certain Wind Runner and Vampire had been back in the day. The [Gang Leader] eyed Damia.
“Well, let me catch you up on the rules.”
“I know the rules, thank you.”
“Sure, sure, but our [Driver]’s mad right now. Never seen her break a passenger’s bones—she’s been racing across Izril.”
“Trying to keep up with everyone who needs to go places. She was out for a month. Ne’er heard of that. I missed a lot of damn meetings because of that.”
The other [Gang Leader] grumbled. That got a nod from the secretary-like woman who said nothing; the nobleman kept trying to hide his face.
An amused look from the female [Gang Leader]; she jerked a thumb at her chest.
“We’re regulars. Big names up north. Not that I bet a noblewoman like you’d know.”
Damia’s heart beat a bit too fast.
“Why would you assume I’m noble?”
Even Binevy tried not to smile as half the coach laughed, including Karsaeu. The female [Gang Leader] twiddled her fingers.
“Everything? Don’t worry, we don’t really care if some new noble’s got ties to the underworld. We just remember. Like sir over yonder; might be good work, so we’re all respectful like.”
She winked at the [Lord], who flinched, and Damia eyed him and sighed.
“I should have brought a mask.”
“Yup! Most of us don’t care, but we’re commonfolk. We’ve had all sorts in here. [Assassins]—haven’t seen much of them anymore. Shame, they were all decent. We even had the Wind Runner herself in here when she went to wake Archmage Valeterisa.”
“Really?”
Damia knew all the big events in Izril, of course, and the [Gang Leader] proudly told the story of how she’d been in this very coach when Ryoka had been riding north. Damia was fascinated.
This was what she wanted! The Unmarked Coach reeked of power, most of it unspoken. Like the free, magical food, the way the passengers were all clearly important. None of it needed to be shown off. That was real authority.
The [Lord] got off on the first stop, which wasn’t his destination, but Damia clearly made him uncomfortable. She leaned over to Binevy.
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know, milady. Not a nobleman I’m familiar with.”
“Me neither. But you saw his coat? The fool was wearing the sigil of House Everight. That’s not possible; it’s dead. Lord Toldos was the last heir.”
Binevy had to fuss with a folder.
“I have a [Message] scroll. I can contact our people, I mean, your people in the mansion, milady. And inquire—”
The two listening [Gang Leaders] and the unknown woman were eavesdropping on Damia’s conversation as they lounged, and the fussy, note-taking short woman glanced up.
“House Everight has a new [Lord]. If that was him, that was Lord Gliven, who was confirmed to be a long-lost member of the bloodline by House Reinhart, among other families.”
Damia’s head swung around. She frowned.
“Impossible.”
“That’s how it is, Miss.”
The note-woman shot back, and Damia hesitated. Brain-engaged. She spoke slowly.
“If that is the new [Lord], it’s the new [Lord]. But he’s no distant relative. Lord Toldos Everight searched for years for family members. I find it incredible that one would pop up after his very public search. He had even tried to induct someone into his family to continue his bloodline as he did not wish to sire another heir.”
That was just the kind of thing a noblewoman knew; the gossip of the houses. Even the note-taker’s brows rose, and Damia went on, thinking out loud.
“Given his presence in the Unmarked Coach, Lord Gliven seems to have a few interesting contacts for such a new member of the nobility. If not much sense.”
He hadn’t seemed that refined to her. He might have recognized her, but she hadn’t reacted to being embarrassed or out-of-place. Good nobility meant you were poised even when embarrassed; it was like how Damia could go silent and blank-faced without flushing or shifting around. So, new to nobility.
“Sounds like someone’s made a mistake. Or arranged for a fellow to get a noble class. You’re not half-bad, Miss.”
The male [Gang Leader] said, voice amused. Damia nodded at him.
“I’m new, but I intend to establish myself quickly. I’m bound for Invrisil. You?”
“Same. We’re moving into a more profitable area. With a lot of…friends.”
A feral grin from the female [Gang Leader]. Damia nodded.
Ah, so they were moving to the City of Adventures as well. With their gangs. She held out a hand again.
“Perhaps we might do business. I have interests in Invrisil and all the connections.”
A chuckle as the callused hands shook hers again. The female [Gang Leader] had bad teeth and a lot of knife-scars. Some of which seemed fresh.
“Never hurts to know people. But frankly, Miss, I doubt you could afford us. Then again, if you can get in here, that’s something.”
Damn, how did one acquire enough money to buy a gang out? Damia sighed internally. She needed something of great value in Liscor or the other cities, and she had hopes…!
“Anything of value in the area I should know of that you’d care to share?”
The two [Gang Leaders] hesitated, but it seemed Damia had earned some credit with the conversation about Lord Gliven, so the male one shrugged. He carried a weird little pointed spear at his side, but with a wide handle. Like a dagger-spear?
No, it might extend outwards. What an interesting weapon. A compact spear. He counted on his fingers.
“What’s not valuable? There’s a good trade in scrolls…or there was. Damn shame we missed it, but maybe it’s there. Have to muscle out the damn hatmen for that, and that’s no fun. But food’s aplenty from the Unseen Empire, even if I hear it’s dicey working there too. Mostly? It’s about transport.”
“With the portal doors.”
Nods.
“You take cargo from one city that has something to another where it’s rare. Say…something nice to sniff, and that saves a lot of travel and hassle. They don’t check at most of the door exits that well save for Pallass. Though you have to have the right signs or I hear the operator of the door gets you.”
“Signs?”
Binevy was taking as many notes as the stranger across from her, and the [Gang Leader] shrugged.
“Sure. Everyone knows you need an Ullsinoi sign; give you that for free. That’s the only one they accept, apparently. Anything else and you might get caught unless you’re high level. It’s pretty reasonable to pay for a few signs that last a month. Bet it’s worth a lot to the [Illusionists], though.”
So The Wandering Inn had a deal with the Ullsinoi of Wistram. If transport’s the real value, perhaps I could take something valuable in the north down south? 
She’d work on it. Damia went back to asking more questions, which seemed to amuse the other riders, and she was working on being…sociable. Someone they wanted to know.
The rest of the time, Damia stared out the window.
Dead gods, they moved fast. She was so taken with this transport that even when they reached Invrisil, she and the other passengers elected to keep in the Unmarked Coach.
“We’re actually hoping to scope out Celum, and I hear there’s a damn Golem at the checkpoint. You heading south, driver?”
The [Gang Leader] rapped on the sliding panel, and Karsaeu barked back.
“All the way to Zeres and back. Won’t take longer than half a day.”
Dead gods, she was blazing down the roads. To Damia’s surprise, the initial group of three had stayed in the coach the entire time.
The note-taker, the two [Gang Leaders], and Damia all eyed each other.
“What, all of us have business in Celum?”
“It’s as good a place as any for me to start. You?”
“I have an investment to check on in the east. I’d prefer not to answer any more questions.”
The note-taker replied calmly. The [Gang Leader] put up her hands.
“Fine, fine. But like I said, Miss Lady, you can’t afford us.”
“But if I did have an offer, how much?”
“Depends on the job—look, look, you need a rep, and no offense, but you’re definitely no Face of the streets. You do something big, smart, and we’ll all listen, but until then…”
Damia sighed as she glanced out the window. Karsaeu was throwing caution to the wind with the Unmarked Coach’s usual secrecy. She was racing down the side of the main road, over the grass because the people on the road would get in the way. Faces turned, and Damia smirked as she saw the disbelieving expressions.
Karsaeu passed an Overnight Coach carrying Desinee El into Invrisil, and Damia blew a kiss at the noblewoman travelling in far less style. She blasted past a Courier who slowed; Salamani and Ci eyed the mad Djinni riding like the wind. Karsaeu flipped off Termin and Rhaldon, who waved at her.
Some idiot was riding a Wistram Carriage and tried to race Karsaeu. It went neck-and-neck with her for sixty miles, then ran out of magical power and left the excited young nobles who’d chartered it in the middle of the road, utterly stranded.
Karsaeu passed by a herd of Corusdeer, a traffic jam on the road, a stop where [Vampire Hunters] were trying to test people, a running half-Elf—
…No, wait. The running half-Elf glanced over his shoulder, saw her gaining on him, and began running faster. The angry Djinni, still shaking from her encounter with the Immortal Tyrant herself, didn’t realize she wasn’t passing him at first until she saw him running ahead of her.
Then she accelerated, pouring more magic into the carriage she had created, faking her horses picking up more speed. The air was tearing around her, leaving a slipstream in its wake. And the half-Elf…
Jogged faster. He didn’t even seem like he was running fast. Just jogging along, blonde hair blowing behind his head, wearing some kind of Drathian robes, bare-chested, spinning on one sandal, blowing her a kiss—
Then a vein stood out on Karsaeu’s forehead. She accelerated to her max speed, hit a flying dove who never saw the coach barreling towards it, and exploded the dove like a thunderclap. And the half-Elf…
Kept ahead of her. Now he was pumping his arms and legs, appearing highly amused. He locked eyes with her, and then—then the Djinni faltered.
Because he was smiling. And the being she had taken for a Courier was bounding along, each step tearing up the ground, carrying him hundreds of feet—
Even Named-ranks in her day hadn’t been that strong. She slowed suddenly, and the Djinni could not sweat, but her magical essence could change; it writhed as she emitted waste magic and the horses steamed with the same.
Almost…disappointed, the half-Elf slowed to jog just ahead of her. Just ahead, and they were staring at each other now.
“Want a rematch? This time, I’ll chase.”
He mouthed at her. She stared straight ahead. Turning her carriage down a side-road. And now he was following after her, grinning. Just grinning.
You think you’re the scariest monster on this road? She began sending [Message] spells to her master. He didn’t respond at first; the idiot thought she was invincible, but there was always a bigger monster on the roads. Always…
The Unmarked Coach and half-Elf were still moving at ludicrous speed. But they turned into a town south of Invrisil with nothing apparently interesting about it save for a gathering of young people in a nearby forest.
The passengers were not aware they were in danger…no, the woman taking notes had glanced up and was feeling at the goosebumps on the back of her neck. But Lady Damia just wondered who that fast half-Elf following them was as she peered out the window. And stopped.
Karsaeu, who’d just received an order to bail out even if it meant leaving her passengers behind, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Merr, and Lady Damia Reinhart—as well as a member of the Haple of the Sisters of Chell and two [Gang Leaders] who were Faces in the underworld—passed by a gathering in the trees.
Mostly Human, though of note, there were actually Gnolls and Drakes in the crowd. Very odd. Very strange. Something only popular in this day and age.
Some had on only black and had white facepaint. [Goths]. Others were older-fashioned. Literal [Anarchists], members of a Gang, or just…the classes that found each other.
Not just your average [Rebel] or dissident, but new classes. There were a gaggle of Humans who’d ridden up on bicycles, [Skateboarders], and—Karsaeu broke off plotting her escape—sounds in the air.
Screeching. The hammering of drums. Even the sounds of string instruments and someone trying to copy the wail of an electric guitar. There was even, she realized, a Gnoll shouting.
“Hey! Hey, get in line! Get in the damn line or it’s not going to look good! This is, uh, Izril’s first Battle of the Bands! You hear that? That’s us! Let me hear it!”
The first underground concert in Izril was underway, and it was chaotic and messy; no food vendors, no real organization. The member of Haple, the secret leadership of the Sisters of Chell, took one look out the window and sighed.
Someone had thrown this together by putting the word out and not expected the numbers or figured out how to organize things. Bands were setting up and arguing with each other. By the looks of it, there’d been at least one fight already, but probably no blood. It was youth and ego, and it was so funny that Tolveilouka stopped following the Djinni to stare.
“Kraken’s tits. Well, someone has style in this era at least!”
He beamed and popped over in an instant to a group of Gnolls with dyed fur squaring off with some local Humans. He didn’t take his eyes off Karsaeu, of course. When she tried to circle the gathering, he kicked a stone so fast and hard that no one saw it.
Ordinary stones didn’t really damage Djinni unless they made themselves physical, like the carriage. Even then, it only blew out one of the Unmarked Carriage’s wheels, but she stopped. Tolveilouka heard people arguing, then the first band got on stage.
They were copying a certain Battle of the Bands that had captured attention a little bit ago. But unlike the Fraerlings, this lot had less practice. A lot of heart, though. Cheering and booing started as someone with a four-string guitar tried to copy the Singer of Terandria’s music.
The music was, uh…okay?
No, really. It wasn’t bad. To the surprised half-Elf, who hadn’t been paying attention to the changes in music, it was functionally decent.
A bit too much performance, but the young [Musicians] had levels. Tolveilouka had no Eyes of Appraisal, so he estimated they ranged from Level 5 to Level 20 on the higher ends.
Which was decent levelling speed if some had only picked up the instruments last year. In this way, Tolveilouka was out of touch because he thought a Level 1 to Level 30 growth spurt in a year’s time was what the average citizen could do.
Well, partly that was because he was generally responsible for said levels when he led an army of plague zombies across their nations, breeding famine, pestilence, and plague.
Still, he liked the energy. Some of the bands or soloists were trying to copy the Fraerlings, high kicking, screaming into enchanted microphones—someone even attempted a stage-dive, which went hilariously badly.
Broken collarbone. Tolve watched as the frozen Unmarked Coach sat there, and a [Lady] inside began asking what the holdup was. Karsaeu told her to shut the hell up, which made all of the passengers realize they were in trouble and go silent—
Tolve watched until he grew bored, and then he thought he might kill the Djinni or infect her and go back to figuring out where the hell Lyonette was. But he was amused.
The crowd was not on the band’s sides. Oh, they were receptive, but they jeered, screamed along to the singing, which threw off the more inexperienced performers; when they shouted insults from the stage, the audience would come up to fight them.
A different crowd from the Fraerlings. Also, they didn’t have a dedicated MC or [Innkeeper] to make this place, well, work. Lovely chaos, youth in its myriad forms on display, uncertain, but innovative, as it had always been.
Tolveilouka liked that. He was always young at heart. You grew old, you died.
The half-Elf decided he’d watch one more performer, then start killing.
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart was aware there was trouble, but she didn’t know what. She sat, tense, head scanning the crowd as the Djinni waited, silent. No one asked her what was going on.
Damia had begun to do that, but the others had told her to shut up. Her mind had agreed.
Don’t distract professionals. Everyone was swivelling, heads spinning, except the note-taker. She was speaking.
“I need backup. Location is a town just south of Invrisil. Something has halted the Unmarked Coach. Unclear what it is.”
“Got a gang behind you, lady? We’re whistling ours up, but they’re on the move.”
The two [Gang Leaders] were checking their weapons. The extending-spear fellow had his spear in his hands. His friend had two wicked, serrated knives in her fists. The note-taker lowered the speaking stone, exhaled.
“I suppose if it keeps us from killing each other and we survive long enough—yes. I’m with the Sisters.”
“You?”
It surprised everyone. The Sisters were a major gang. Damia blinked at the least-tough woman in the coach, including Damia, but the note-taker just folded her arms.
“Dead gods. You’re one of them leaders, aren’t you? A Haple.”
A look and the female gang-leader shut up. The member of Haple spoke calmly.
“It’s the half-Elf. He was outpacing the coach. He did something when we listed—my guess is he’s over Level 50.”
Silence. Damia was sweating as Binevy wrote furiously, perhaps trying to get help from House Reinhart. This was why she needed a [Bodyguard]…
“No offense, but I’m running.”
“I suspect we’re all dead, but that would be my plan. I doubt he cares for witnesses.”
Silence. Damia stared out the window, searching for any asset. Think! She was a genius! She thought she was. Something. Something—
A new group trudged onto stage as the last band was booed off. Not the planned performer; there was a hiccup. The Gnoll trying to do the MC’s job shouted.
“Next—uh—we’ve got a mystery act—”
Someone, a black-scaled Drake, grabbed the microphone as a hooded figure stood to the side.
“Hey, you pathetic idiots! This concert sucks!”
There was a roar from the crowd, who half-agreed. The Drake pointed.
“Here’s a real legend and musician for you! He’s gonna play a new song. What’s, uh…Numb, what’s the—”
She went over, then dashed back to the microphone. And Damia saw the hooded figure holding something.
A guitar? Not the first she’d seen, but something about him made her look twice. A presence. The member of Haple frowned.
“That’s a high-level person. Higher level than anyone else out there.”
“Good, maybe they’ll die first. Driver, do we got backup?”
On stage, the female Drake was arguing with the hooded figure. Who seemed…upset. But Damia’s eyes were locked on him as the wind blew and revealed something that made the crowd of young people go silent.
Then gasp. Some drew back. A few screamed; others laughed. The rest just cheered.
Because he was—
A Hobgoblin.
 
——
 
Numbtongue, the [Sybarite Soulbard], did not want to be here. And he did. He was shaking with nerves.
Salkis, who’d found out about this event through her friends, who seemed to be all over Izril, was excited. She hissed at him.
“Numb, come on! I’ve got friends in the crowd!”
“Your mysterious ones or actual friends?”
“…Both! Show them a real performance.”
Numbtongue was waiting to see if the crowd tried to murder him. He’d been moving across Izril’s north. He’d fled towns trying to lynch him, run around with gangs, and just—
Not gone home. The inn was searching for him. Some [Informant] had pulled him aside to say that. Numbtongue had punched him in the face.
So what? Numbtongue was tired. He didn’t know what the crowd saw.
The [Soulbard] had lost weight. A mostly liquid diet did that. It made his cheekbones stand out more, and he was tall, his hair a wave of jet black, still fit, a crimson Dragoncrystal sword at his side.
He stood like everything that was wrong or forbidden in this world, crimson eyes bored and tired, and his scars spoke of battles that few had ever dreamed of in their safe worlds. His pointed ears and his green skin, the way he held himself with a warrior’s earned grace, guitar in hands, facing the crowd without fear of them—
And he wondered why they’d gone silent. Why Salkis and her friends followed him around.
They knew him.
Some had seen him on the scrying orb. Or just heard the story. The Goblin with the guitar who conjured lightning. The Hob wandering in the north.
In him was the echo of his father, Garen Redfang, for how soon people forgot, but the story retold itself in him.
But Numbtongue was not happy on his adventure, like Rabbiteater. He felt lost.
He felt…
His claws touched the guitar strings, and a flash of lightning made the person holding the scrying mirror go still. The crowd watched, and so did Lady Damia, even the fascinated half-Elf.
Like the Battle of Bands in Lemoste, this event would not be broadcast live. It would be re-broadcast later, after being submitted to Channel 2 News. Yet unlike Lemoste, it would quickly become a sensation. This Goblin, this song, would eventually travel the entire world and catch parts of it like a storm.
Later that day, the [Princess] waiting for word of a lost Hobgoblin would see it. And so, if Lyonette du Marquin, worried, wanted to know how Numbtongue was doing, this was her answer.
 
——
 
He had backup. Salkis grabbed some drumsticks and began to play. Numbtongue was the bass and lead. [Counter Melody] let him play both parts.
As for Salkis, she’d learned [Echo Competency: Music].
Numbtongue began to strum on his guitar, and the music was electric. The crowd, who’d begun to murmur, went silent. The beat that Salkis was laying down on the drums was as fast as his racing heartbeat.
Don’t do this. The Hobgoblin ignored the voice in his head. He closed his eyes and lifted something as he played. Gazed down at an image of an [Innkeeper] caught by a scrying spell in Baleros. Gazing into the camera as a Lizardman interviewed her.
His eyes locked on Erin Solstice’s face. Then Numbtongue leaned forwards. The crude wooden microphone was waiting for him.
So he sang.
 
“I never thought that I’d feel this old
Thought I’d be dead long ago
That’s the way it goes, that’s how [Heroes] go—”
 
It sounded like the Singer of Terandria. The same style. Pop? Dance. A genre so advanced that lexicons hadn’t evolved fast enough to keep up. But the Hobgoblin sang, and even Salkis nearly forgot to keep playing.
No one, not his family, not his tribe, knew that Numbtongue could sing like that. He was shy. He’d always been shy, and when he performed in the past, he had been serviceable, decent.
Practicing. Practicing in his rooms and singing only with Bird or Mrsha as an audience. Or Octavia and Garia in the mines.
He had never cut loose in public, never shouted how he felt. But now the words, practiced, given voice by his heart and sleepless nights and encouraged by Salkis—they came out of him.
Too late to stop. The crowd began to cheer almost at once. Because they could tell. The words—
They were speaking to them. But that was just how he began. They thought he was going to sing a war song, and he was.
Just not one about battles with swords.
 
“I’ve been to war, but I’d rather be back in hell
It’s easier than you asking if I’m well.
After all you’ve done, how dare you ask?”
 
Wait. A [Goth] raising his hands blinked. It sounded like a—
Love song. The Hobgoblin’s eyes had been closed. Now, they opened and stared at something only he could see. They glowed bright.
 
“Here’s how I’m doing:
Eat shit! I wish you knew how I was feeling
But you don’t care, do you?
Across the world and you don’t look back—”
 
His audience got that. They understood this song, and they had never heard it like this. The Singer of Terandria, the [Popstar], sang classics from her world. Many had lots to do with love. But most were hits, not this. This—
This was bitter. And original. They had never heard this song in this or any other world. The Hobgoblin confirmed that feeling in the next moment.
 
“Go to Rhir!
Go further and maybe I’ll forget you existed
Then I’ll start to heal
Sorry if that stings just keepin’ it real!”
 
Then they were just—cheering. Swept up in the [Sybarite Soulbard]’s greatest performance of his life. His eyes swept the crowd jumping, now, because they had to get the energy rushing through their legs out.
Mosh pit. He imagined someone, and his eyes fixed on that image; his voice became gravelly. He sang harder.
 
“How do you live with all the things you’ve done?
Ripped my heart out and left me to bleed
That’s the least of all your deeds.
 
“Fuck you!
For a woman of fire you’re so cold
You never think you could be wrong
Freeze me with all your guilty flames you deserve.”
 
They were cheering as he strode down the stage, waving their arms—a pair of Humans were shouting in the crowd next to a half-Elf pumping both hands in the air, eyes alight with joy. The Hobgoblin shook his head as the Unmarked Coach and those inside stared, mouths open.
 
“Shoot my heart like you shot my family apart
I wish I could say you’re grateful
But you tossed me aside and never looked back
 
They say I’m the monster but they’ve never met you
You kill everything that loves you just because you can.”
 
For a second, the swelling music slowed. Salkis put down the drumsticks, and he sang alone. Quietly, breathing hard, staring at something, someone, he had written for.
 
“Tell me: when is it my turn?”
 
He squeezed his eyes shut, jerking his head away as the drums picked up speed again. And he let it out. Everything he wanted to say.
 
“Tell me: when is it my turn?
Please hate me.
Look at me like you want me dead
Then I know I’ll never leave your head
Otherwise I’m just a statue for you to admire
Another victim on your pyre
 
I hope when it’s your turn
It breaks you to pieces.”
 
He kept playing. There was more, of course; refrains and the like. But that—
That got the heart of the song across.
It was a really good song too. The kind that captured something you’d felt and put in a form you wish you could have given voice to.
The kind of thing that caught fame. The cheering crowd didn’t stop shouting long after the Hobgoblin had finished. He had to come back on stage and perform again, then do other songs he knew. When it was done, everything revolved around him.
People asking who he was. Trying to get close. Wanting to know where he’d go next as Salkis tried to shove forwards and make sure no one got any ideas about who his girlfriend was. People just—loving the song.
Like Tolveilouka, who cheered with the crowd, completely forgetting about murdering anyone. He didn’t even look around when the Unmarked Coach shot away.
He was having too much fun. The half-Elf couldn’t wait to see the [Innkeeper]’s face when she heard that one. It was so worth being her ally after all.
 
——
 
Music travelled faster than gossip, which could outrun fact. That song and broadcast spread across the world—fast.
It struck most people individually. Some…some knew what it meant. Knew the Goblin. And their opinions were irrelevant because they were just individuals and that was a movement.
No one paid attention to a little Gnoll girl sitting in an inn lost to the world, crying as she saw her older brother singing that with all the bitter hate in the world. Only she knew what he should look like.
 
——
 
To everyone else, he was just the singing Hobgoblin. Creator of that damn good song.
“Dead gods. I can’t get it out of my head. Someone turn it off! We’re having a cookout, and we’ve company.”
“But Ma—”
An excited crowd of children—and she saw them as children, even if some were twenty—were all gathered around the scrying orb. At her warning look, her eldest son switched the orb off, but Aronia Lischelle privately bookmarked the song to come back to later.
“Goblins. They’d better not be in our north or we’ll have to round up a posse and take it out.”
That came from the man standing at the huge metal grille where he was cutting pieces of dripping meat off the fire and serving them onto plates. Huge, glistening chunks of prime beef covered in fat and seasoned until you wanted to scream and take another bite.
Hot as could be, served with fresh bread, potatoes that had been plucked from fields bare hours ago, and that damn good corn from up north, the blue stuff, for sweetness.
A feast, and the architect of it was Aronia Lischelle. It was an impressive meal, talk of the region. People marked on their calendars when a Lischelle threw a cookout, riding for a hundred miles to make it.
They were famous for it. This was a smaller gathering because it had come together so fast—such a hassle to put on with a day’s notice, but that was family for you.
Only three hundred people, not including the guests who numbered about forty. The Drakes and Gnolls had been worried about taking so many—until they’d been told they’d be well outnumbered.
The Lischelles, the Rominet, and a good number of Calabies as well as smaller families. Literal families, but also their workers—these were the clans who lived in the Cowpat Plains, the local name for this prime ranching spot.
As a certain Gnoll had observed, it did smell, but the huge roasts of meat were overpowering the usual dung scent, and you got used to it. Your reward?
The best damn sausages you’d ever had in your life. Slices of roast beef, pork tenderloin that would make a city-[Chef] cry for he had nothing a tenth as good from smaller, lesser farmers. This was Lischelle meat.
And they were unto royalty for their class.
It was the best damn meat you’d ever eaten.
“This is the best damn meat I’ve ever eaten. How in the name of the walls are they doing it? Is it…[Expert Cooking] or something?”
Aronia’s [Long Ear] picked up a Gnoll chomping down on a leg of chicken and looking thoroughly rattled as he stood with the Salazsarian contingent, who were…guests…at the cookout. Which meant no brawling, no knives, nothing.
Even if Aronia would have happily seen that purple-scaled Wall Lord run out of the north at the tip of a pitchfork, there were such things as manners. She’d reminded Herbus Calabie about that as well; the [Cattle Baron] had a temper.
Well, so did Marvus, but he was busy at the grill. The [Cattle Baron] and head of the family, her husband, was busy making sure the food was seared to excellence; he was so busy clapping people on the back and serving food he didn’t have time to throw a punch. She could hear his huge voice as he turned, sweat staining his work-clothes after a long day riding in the sun.
“Anyone seen the Golvas? Bah, we’ll put something aside for them. They’ll have to ride thirty miles to get here, and I bet no one told ‘em until this morning.”
Thirty miles of riding or more was not something you did casually, but again—[Cattle Barons]. The best riders, ranchers, and fistfighters in the north. Their herds could stretch from one end of the plains to another, and all this meant that this was their land.
Not any noble’s. Not for generations. None of the Five Families came this far south. Aronia was proud about that. No taxes, no rules save for the ones they made, and it was all fair.
Fair trade, free land, pride in what you did.
So that was why when a bunch of Drakes came north, they got what was coming to them. Not a war; she’d told Marvus not to shoot the first arrow. Lischelle sent men down to the Bloodfields each year, and she didn’t need a war up here. Not with a Walled City.
But the only thing keeping her from walking over and giving the Drake a hand he’d not soon forget was the fact that it was a cookout. And, well, the fact that someone was vouching for him.
Her oldest daughter Burlise was fiddling with her belt, which she’d bought, a fancy Wyvern belt from Pallass no less. She’d argued for ages with her mother about getting a Drake belt and insisted; the damn thing didn’t even fit her properly. She hesitated, tossing back her orange hair.
“Ma. Ma—are you going to talk t’ the Drake and that other [Lady] or stare all day? You’ve been shooting [Death Beams] the entire time.”
“Hush, you. We’re letting them fill their bellies first.”
Burlise dodged a hand going for her ear because she wanted to hear today.
“Sure—but you never don’t talk to ‘em. Even the Golvas you walk up and shake hands, and you hate—”
Everyone looked around, but the Golvas weren’t here, and Aronia lowered her voice.
“Hush. They’ve got Gnolls. It’s not the Gnolls, it’s that Drake. Let your father talk first.”
“It ain’t the Drake. It’s Aunt Colfa. You sure it’s her?”
Her loudmouth daughter, love her, could not let anything drop like an adult and pick up on cues. Aronia half-glanced towards a woman standing next to the red-haired [Lady] and a [Knight] of all damn things. Terandrians? They were all on the Drake Wall Lord’s side. Aronia’s voice was so cool it probably would have frosted the stew she was tending to. She began serving it into bowls.
“It’s Colfa. She was always—like that.”
“But her hair’s white, and she’s pale as—”
A swat.
“Stop staring. She’s got a farm up north. Or had. ‘Round Reizmelt. She didn’t bring her husband here either.”
“Just as well. Shifty fellow.”
One of Aronia’s brothers muttered. She shot him a look, and all the adults went silent. Aronia’s voice was firm.
“She’s come back, and we’re giving her the welcome she deserves, even if she did ask for a cookout without any notice. Hear them out, mind your manners, and if we don’t like what we hear, the lot of you can go kick that bunches’ teeth in the next time Marvus is minded to rumble.”
Indeed, the fact that any number of families were here proved they wanted to hear what this Drake had to say. And if they didn’t like it, they’d put aside their feuds and rivalries and deal with the problem.
No damn Drakes in our land. But Aronia just watched her sister. Colfa.
Dead gods, the years hadn’t touched her. She was beautiful, aside from that rash on her arm, but she was so pale. Her eyes.
Her red eyes. Did she color them with alchemy or had she changed? She didn’t feel like a [Rancher] anymore. Aronia was one of the highest-levelled women in this entire section of Izril. She could stare down even Big Burlap himself; she’d once had to knock the bull flat, and they told stories about that. She had thunder and wrath in her left hand, and the ability to feed an army in her right.
Her sister…
Felt empty. The young woman next to her sister had a glow about her. Something fancy, bright, and annoying to Aronia. Like a city’s [Merchant] who looked down on country people. It would have been polite for them to come over and say something. They hadn’t even had any food.
But Aronia gave them just a hint of grace. They were still staring at the scrying orb with the Hobgoblin playing the guitar. From the look on their faces…Aronia listened as the [Princess] finally stopped watching the replay after the seventh time. She glanced up, face utterly calm, and spoke.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin, Nerul and Ilvriss Gemscale, Dame Ushar, Nanette Weishart, his command staff save for Captain Osthia, who was guarding the camp, Wall Lord Dramm and several younger officers, everyone was here.
The only person who hadn’t come to the ‘cookout’, whatever that was, was Xesci, who claimed it was too fancy for her.
Fancy was not how Lyonette would have termed the informal gathering. There weren’t even many places to sit! People just stood around with tin plates, eating off them, chatting—well, the Humans did.
The Drakes and Gnolls from the south stood apart, a clear line in the sand drawn between north and south. Lyonette knew she should do something about it; she’d put on her best travel dress since she’d been advised by Colfa not to wear a formal piece, and she’d come with Ilvriss to make peace.
But then she’d seen the broadcast with Numbtongue on it, and that…
Ilvriss was watching with a pained expression in his eyes. Nanette’s mouth was covered by her hands. Ushar was glancing around, doing her job, and Lyonette?
Lyonette hoped Mrsha hadn’t seen it. Calmly, she beckoned Ushar over.
“Ushar? I believe that’s a northern town nearby or some such? Find out where it is. Then see if we can hire an [Assassin].”
Dame Ushar smiled weakly. Then she saw Lyonette’s blue eyes were not blinking. The Thronebearer licked her lips, and someone spoke in a too-loud voice.
“Seems like we both can agree on one thing, then. Goblins walking around in daylight? It wouldn’t stand in the Cowpat Plains. Nor anything else a Lischelle’d quibble at. Y’all not hungry? There’s plenty to go around.”
Lyonette blinked and remembered her hosts. She smiled as a woman walked forwards, hand stretched out.
“Aronia Lischelle. You know Marvus. Colfa!”
“Aronia. Good to see you.”
They hugged and kissed each other’s cheeks, but the normally-energetic Colfa was rather subdued at the moment. She hadn’t wanted to do this, but Lyonette took a deep breath.
“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Aronia—the broadcast was highly distressing.”
“Well, it’s surely interesting to see a [Lady]’s [Lady] such as yourself do things like they do up in First Landing. I thought all the [Assassins] were gone.”
Ah—perhaps not a good first start. Lyonette hesitated as Ilvriss jumped and began shaking hands with Aronia’s family, who’d come over warily. Where was Nerul? She smiled.
“That was a joke. And we have brought you something—thank you for hosting such a delightful event!”
“Of course. Oh, thank you!”
They’d brought a bunch of Salazsarian wine and even some ice cream carefully wrapped in ice that was mostly melting. Aronia’s children grew visibly interested at the treat they definitely knew, but the woman took one look at the food and wine and gestured.
It went onto the tables. The far end of the tables, and Lyonette saw it put down by one of Aronia’s daughters, whereupon no one touched it.
Right.
Back to work. She took a breath as she studied Aronia and got the distinct impression the woman was doing the same to her.
Lyonette would have described Aronia like this to Ielane. A woman in her mid-fifties, overweight, but a working woman, clearly, who wore boots and clothing in the same style as the [Ranchers]; even if she didn’t necessarily ride, she felt like a [Rancher] to Lyonette, but higher-grade than any [Peasant] in Calanfer. Her clothing was actually quite detailed and fine, even if it was common cotton, and she had orange hair. Not royal red, but distinct enough, braided up into a bun.
With her husband, they were an imposing duo and tall; that was the one thing they shared with Colfa. But the Vampiress’ hair, skin, everything, made her so foreign she was like someone from another continent compared to the Lischelles.
They were a boisterous, noisy lot. They reminded Lyonette of [Hostlers] or [Farmers], rough and ready, and she could see how they were all too willing to throw fists with the Drakes. They were a distinct contrast to Ilvriss’ company-oriented Salazsarian crew too.
She didn’t know how to interact with Aronia, but politeness and dignity did work everywhere in Lyonette’s view, so she smiled.
“May I introduce Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“Charmed, Miss Aronia. Or is it…Lady Aronia? I apologize, I don’t know the ranks of your classes here.”
That made her laugh, loudly enough for her husband to glance up and begin edging her way.
“Lady? Not us, not here. Oh, we’re [Cattle Barons], but that’s just the name of the class. We’re not proper royalty like you, Lady Lyonette, though some of us give ourselves airs.”
She didn’t glance at Colfa there, but Lyonette swore she saw Colfa twitch. Was that…a Skill? From the way Colfa grimaced, it seemed like that comment had actually hurt!
“[Barbed Comment]. Your Highness, she’s got Skills. She’s one to convince as well.”
Ushar used a Skill to murmur in Lyonette’s ear. The [Princess] smiled.
“Well, we’re all equals here in my eyes. As I said, this is very gracious of you to put on at such short notice.”
“Think nothing of it, but you’re not hungry at all?”
Lyonette began to demur, but Wall Lord Ilvriss’ stomach rumbled, and Aronia smiled. She gestured.
“Come on, let’s get some food in you. Do you all not eat a kind of meat?”
“Er, no, not at all. What have we here?”
Ilvriss asked the wrong question because the woman began to tell him in detail exactly what they had, which vaguely impressed Lyonette. Oh, it wasn’t at all made elegantly, but the cuts of meat looked exceedingly fine, which she supposed you got from the s—
One bite of the first piece of steak and Lyonette choked. Nanette’s eyes went round, and Ilvriss blinked.
“This is excellent.”
It was, in fact, one of the best steaks that Lyonette had ever had in her life, and she was a [Princess]! Nanette began to gobble her food as Lyonette and Ilvriss turned to compliment Aronia, and the woman laughed.
“Of course it is! It’s a Lischelle steak! Colfa never served you any?”
“We had to get rid of our cows when we moved to Liscor. We have new ones, but nothing I’d serve at a cookout.”
Colfa murmured, and Aronia turned. Everyone in earshot, her extended family, went silent, then Aronia spoke.
“We’ll have to send some to you then! What happened up north, Colfa?”
“Poison in the wells.”
“Dead gods. Are you alright? Is that girl and boy of yours, Fierre, Rivel, alright?”
Colfa murmured as the conversation turned on her, providing brief explanations. Lyonette nudged Nanete.
“Nanette, stop gobbling!”
“But it’s so good! Mrsha should have stayed!”
The witch protested, and Aronia beamed and pinched her cheek.
“What a darling girl with good taste! Is she yours?”
“Yes, yes she is. And I have another girl, but she had to return home, sick. She’s a Gnoll, and her nose was sensitive.”
Aronia nodded, and one of her sisters put in drily.
“Oh, aye. We’ve had Gnolls come by and have a sneezing fit something terrible. Poor folks. But it’s only real bad here where Cowpat Plains is deepest. Still, I’ve heard some cityfolk say they can’t stomach the stench! How about you, Miss Lyonette?”
“I barely smell a thing.”
The [Princess] was sure her lie was genuine, but there was a moment of silence, and she felt, instinctively, she was making mistakes. But she was trained by Ielane! What was she doing—
“Er, Your Highness. Your Mother has notes for you. She would like you to know you’re behaving incorrectly.”
Lyonette jumped, turned to Ushar, and hissed at her.
“She’s watching me?”
Of course she was. Lyonette still refused to speak to Ielane, but damn it—she might be correct. Flustered, Lyonette stepped back, and fortunately at that moment, the hero of the hour came in. Nerul Gemscale, [Diplomat], accept no other expert.
Where he’d been while Lyonette and Ilvriss were putting their foot in it was made obvious at once. He had loaded up a plate with an obscene amount of food and, from the looks of it, had made an amazing dent already. He had an ale in his hand, and he strode into the conversation as loud as could be.
“Miss Aronia, this food! The best I’ve had! I shall sing your praises from the towers of Salazsar—if I can manage all the steps! Your husband is a fine charrer of meat.”
For some reason, that last bit sounded like an insult. Aronia wavered as Lyonette took her cues from Nerul.
“Marvus burned some of the meat?”
“Only a bit, and it’s the most excellent stuff I’ve had.”
“Oh, drat the fool—he was probably jawing with the Golvas. They just rode in. How do you do?”
“Excellent, and may I add that your farmstead is splendid? I love the ranch style of things; we’re all up and down, you know. Is that a genuine ivory dining set?”
“That? Bull horns, nothing fancy—excuse me, I’d best check on the food. You just have a bit and we’ll be right back!”
Aronia stepped away, and Lyonette blinked. Ilvriss raised his brows as Nerul began shaking hands with the impressed members of the Lischelles, who watched him with a sudden respect Lyonette hadn’t gotten herself.
“Uncle, what was that? Did you go into her house?”
Nerul whispered out of the corner of his mouth.
“I surely did, Nephew. I’d like to be all sun and roses here, but they do not like us, and they need us to throw a few jabs at them to respect us. Miss Lyonette, you’re playing far too Terandrian courts. Go Erin Solstice. Your mother would astound you how fast she can class switch.”
Lyonette blinked. Sure enough, though, Nerul had put the Lischelles on the back foot a second. Nerul strode back into the conversation, loud as could be, dictating the flow of it.
“Yes, Salazsar! [Diplomat], drunkard, it’s very much the same energy. I can’t handle the flatness here. It’s all heights back home, but here you ride for thirty miles and you’re lucky to find an anthill! And the damn cowpats! I’ve stepped in five this morning, and the stench! Well, this is fantastic. Now—which of you bastards were stealing our cows and are we eating them?”
He punched the shoulder of a surprised man and had them laughing at a bawdy joke he was telling in moments. Nerul could out-drink and out-personality most people. Ilvriss, on the other hand, checked something he had been given.
“I’ve got a gift to present, but I was told to hold onto it until that [Cattle Baron] gets here. He does not like us, Lyonette.”
“No, he does not. I’ll push back more. How have they treated you thus far?”
He raised his brows at her.
“Treated me? Lyonette, they didn’t say anything to me. Refused to hear any messengers I sent—I’ve bought from all the ones here, but only lower-level representatives. Nerul just got dead silence, but he’s been dealing with the Five Families.”
Colfa muttered to both.
“That’s how it works. Their silence is a sign there’s trouble. If they’re loud and arguing, at least you have them talking. Marvus is not as bad as Aronia.”
“She seemed pleasant enough.”
Ilvriss muttered back. Lyonette and Colfa eyed him, and he hesitated.
“…No? Her husband broke half a dozen jaws.”
“She let him. Don’t get her mad. We grew up together; I’m the older sister, but I don’t have any levels. She does.”
Colfa was visibly nervous, and Lyonette whispered to her.
“Colfa, is there a rift of some kind I should know about?”
“Nothing complex, Lyonette. I left for Himilt.”
“You ran away?”
“Oh, no. He got their blessings. But he had to work for it, and I—left.”
“But they gave their blessings?”
Colfa sighed.
“Yes, Lyonette. But what does that mean? Aronia and I haven’t done more than send letters for over a decade. We are going to have a conversation, but not here. Not now. I don’t know how you’re going to win them over, though. They won’t relent. They’ve fought at the Bloodfields.”
“I had no idea they cooperated with the Five Families that much. Or that they had this much sway this far south.”
Ilvriss frowned. Colfa eyed him.
“The Five Families won’t get more than spit down here, Ilvriss. They’re not loyal to any noble house. They’re just…north Izrilian. Why wouldn’t we fight at the Bloodfields?”
He hesitated, and here came Marvus and Aronia, and the [Cattle Baron] strode over, shook Ilvriss claw, then stood back, hooking his thumbs in his belt.
“Hope you’re all enjoying the food. Go on, eat up! Then, turn around and get the hell out of my lands, if you don’t mind!”
He laughed, but there was nothing friendly about the look he gave Ilvriss. The Wall Lord cleared his throat.
“Mister Marvus, I understand Salazsar’s presence here is unwelcome, but I’d like to discuss a cessation of hostilities. We have not begun any offensive actions between our people or any of the local rancher-families, and I have a token of goodwill for you, if you’ll accept it.”
Marvus’ brows crossed.
“You what—?”
Aronia whispered in his ear, and he grunted.
“You want to make peace. Not likely. What do you want to give us?”
For answer, Wall Lord Ilvriss opened a black, Wyvernleather briefcase, and Marvus Lischelle went temporarily blind.
Even Lyonette du Marquin had to own—she’d never seen that many expensive gemstones packed into such a small place. They…glittered.
It was harsh but true to say that a well-cut and spelled piece of glass could usually look as good as your average gemstone. True, the real thing had a bit of luster to it, but most gemstones were rocks when you got down to it, and the cut and finish mattered almost more than the quality to the neophyte’s eyes.
But magical gemstones. Magical ones…they glowed. They glittered. They shone with little motes of brilliant light or ran like water, like the opals in the—
Aronia closed the briefcase, and there was a sigh from her daughter. Not just here; everyone had been goggling at the gems, but the woman’s face was all smiles. Her tone was not.
“You must think we can be bought easily, Wall Lord.”
“Not at all, Miss Aronia. This is a gift.”
“Damn expensive for a gift. I guess that’s the City of Gems for you.”
Marvus’ already impressive chest puffed out, and Ilvriss’ eyes flickered. He might not have been the best diplomat ever—Lyonette had met him the first time he’d come to Liscor, after all—but he was a [Wall Lord] without a combat focus.
Adaptable, and the Ilvriss of today could listen to his Uncle. He smiled and chuckled.
“No, no. I fear we’ve all made a mistake. This is no gift in the sense of a…a bribe. This is a thank-you for your lovely cookout. It’s traditional for Drakes to give gifts to neighbors, and this is a Salazsarian one.”
“It’s so—it’s quite a lot.”
One of Aronia’s sisters changed what she was about to say, and Ilvriss gestured at the case.
“If you have such fine livestock, then Salazsar has the same in gems. Please, as you have offered us your specialties, I insist. This is purely a gift, no strings attached.”
He handed it to the woman who’d spoken, and she didn’t try to hand it back fast enough. Very, very clever. Marvus or his wife would have done that. Aronia hesitated.
“Let’s put it aside, Rachele.”
She meant on the table where the melting ice cream was, not to be touched. But that one had struck a blow, Lyonette could tell. Marvus glanced about.
“Awful lot of armored Drakes for a group coming here peaceful. What’re you digging for? That’s what I hear you lot do all day. Dig and more digging. Must be a fortune in, what, metals?”
“Something like that, Marvus.”
Ilvriss copied the man’s straightforward posture and tone, and his voice was polite.
“I’m not at liberty to discuss House Gemscale business with anyone but our partners.”
“And you’re his partner, Miss…?”
Marvus shook Lyonette’s hand and smiled at her, but glanced at Ilvriss as the Wall Lord clarified.
“Miss Lyonette is a very valuable business partner of House Gemscale. From Liscor.”
“Liscor? With the Goblin King nonsense?”
Lyonette met the man’s eyes as he glanced her up and down and wrote her off for reasons she suspected had to do with his willingness to believe the news. She smiled, and her skin hurt from all the smiling.
Her cracks from taking on Erin’s curse. But her makeup was very good, so she doubted even Aronia could tell she had more than heavy makeup on.
“It’s not nonsense, sir.”
“Bah. I lived through the last Goblin King. If he really appeared, he wouldn’t have stopped like that. But I suppose Liscor’s where you get peculiar ideas like trusting Drakes. These are our lands, Lord Ilvriss. No one invited you.”
“As far as I understand it, there’s no owner of the lands we’re digging in. I requested and obtained permits through the town—”
“Town nothing. We graze our herds here.”
“So you legally own the lands, Mister Marvus?”
Lyonette jumped in, and the man hesitated. He did not, but Aronia returned from putting the briefcase aside.
“There’s nothing legal about it, Miss Lyonette. We don’t deal in that sort of thing nor does the Merchant’s Guild or any other Guild have much to do with us. We’re just honest countryfolk. We’re merely expressing how we feel to Wall Lord Ilvriss, frankly.”
“Ah, that would include the cattle raids? My people haven’t used blades, Cattle Baron Marvus. But we cannot afford to keep this state of affairs up.”
Marvus bared his teeth in what would have been a friendly smile for Drakes.
“Shame about that, then. For us country bumpkins, it’s a good warmup after dinner and a way to whet the appetite before dessert.”
“Could we negotiate a truce?”
“No. I don’t think we can. Y’see, we’ve heard about the sabotage the Drakes got up to in the north. Even had a few fellows try it here. They thought they blended in. Well, they learned how well that worked. Whatever you’re looking for, you’re not going to get it easy, Wall Lord. Mind you, I appreciate you not drawing blades on us. I’d hate for things to get worse.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss inhaled and met Marvus’ gaze as the tension ratcheted up, and people began to shift around them. Wall Lord Dramm was glaring at some of the younger men behind Marvus, and Lyonette wished Ilvriss hadn’t brought his friend’s nephew here. Hot tempers were the last thing they needed. Ilvriss murmured.
“I’d hate for that too, Marvus. Does this feel like a waste of everyone’s time?”
“Not ours. What made you think you could just walk up north? Salazsarian might?”
Ilvriss’ eyes flashed for one second, and Lyonette nearly interrupted, but the Wall Lord put out a claw and glanced at Aronia, then around.
“Possibly because Zel Shivertail did just that. He was a friend of mine. I have not come to fight a Goblin Lord, but I took his lessons to heart.”
For a moment, Marvus’ steady hostility wavered, and Lyonette exhaled. She smiled at Ilvriss as he demonstrated that charisma he did have. Wall Lord Dramm backed up, glaring, as Ilvriss pointedly glanced at him, and the tension diffused a moment.
“Excuse us a moment, would you, Wall Lord? This isn’t only our family’s decision, and you should meet the other heads of the families.”
Aronia murmured, and Lyonette smiled, then turned to Ilvriss.
“That was well done. She’s calling in backup.”
“Yep. We haven’t swayed them an inch, but maybe given them room to think. Now we let the heavy hitter come in.”
They turned, and as both sides converged again, Aronia and Marvus walked forwards with six other men and women, and they were the polite ones compared to some of the glares in the group. But Lyonette and Ilvriss had brought Nerul.
He had come prepared for this engagement. The first thing the [Diplomat] did was hip-check Nanette, who’d come forwards with hand raised, out of the way. He came in fast, Skills blazing.
“Rabbo Golva. How the hell are you, my man? I owe you a drink!”
“You do? We’ve never met.”
The head of the Golvas was instantly taken aback, but Nerul grinned.
“I once served a Golva steak at a high-stakes—aha—meeting. Won the Gnoll over so much we stopped an entire border war! That’s quality. I always said to myself, ‘Nerul, if you ever meet the fellow who raised that head of cattle, buy him a drink’.”
“Well, we sell to—”
“It was a Golva Goldstar Porterhouse. 18 A.F. I remember it because half my peers didn’t want to eat it; slightly blue meat?”
The man named Rabbo had calluses on the front and back of his hands, and Lyonette got the impression Aronia and Marvus did not like him for all they stood together. A wiry mustache twitched, and his eyes widened.
“I remember that year. It was one of the best damn herds we had, but for the blue dyegrass they got into. I just had to get someone to taste the stuff and—”
“Exactly. Well, someone put me onto it, and Salazsar had an entire shipment in. Now, I’ll be paying for drinks whenever you want, but I’m forgetting myself! Ranton, yes?”
Nerul knew everyone by name already, and he was doing the old divide-and-conquer method. It was so artful Lyonette wondered if her mother was impressed. Nerul was complimenting the Golvas, who were probably rivals with the Lischelles, and putting a chink in their armor. It was—
 
——
 
“—Not bad.”
Ielane commented, wiping at the blood coming out of her nose. She murmured as a little witch jumped.
“Er—who is this?”
Ushar had handed Nanette a speaking stone. The [Queen] spoke.
“Your grandmother, Nanette Weishart. That Drake isn’t bad. He’s pressing the entire lot hard on their territory, and with a month’s work, I think he might get them fighting each other unless they check it. Tell your mother a certain half-Elf might be coming.”
“I don’t know if Lyonette or I appreciate being spied on—what was that?”
Nanette hesitated as Ielane wiped at her nose again.
“He’s not hostile. Just…odd. Tell her. And the [Diplomat] isn’t bad, but he’s made a mistake. This is going to fail.”
The little witch was peering at Nerul.
“I think Diplomat Nerul is quite adept, Grandmother Ielane or however I should address you. Yuck. I can’t imagine he’d fail.”
Ielane smiled despite herself. The uppitiness of a witch…but she corrected Nanette.
“He’s already lost the battle. Watch.”
Nerul was moving like a snake. Striking with pinpoint accuracy like a [Fistfighter]. And the problem with analogies was at some point—someone swung a fist.
 
——
 
It was a telegraphed blow, and Lyonette herself saw it.
“Watch out—”
Marvus swung at Nerul, and the [Diplomat] blinked, flinched, and put up his guard. Marvus halted the punch, laughing, as Ilvriss put an arm out.
“Hah! Got you, you bastard! I knew you were the fellow who tried to take me on yesterday. Thrashed him like a bug, Aronia.”
“Marvus!”
She slapped his arm but not hard, and Marvus swaggered over. Nerul smiled, but there was a sudden tightness to the smile.
“Marvus Lischelle? We didn’t get a chance to say hello. Nice right hook. I’m hoping we can talk.”
“Bah. Talking, drinking—I don’t have a mind to change things. Not when this is so much fun.”
A second feint, and this time, Nerul barely moved when Marvus aimed at his stomach, but it was there, and Marvus grinned, then was slapping Nerul on the shoulder.
“Just a joke! Just a joke—no one fights at a cookout. You drink? Let’s get a drink!”
“I do drink! And I owe the Golvas one, but if I may—”
“Let’s have a round, then.”
Marvus pulled, and Nerul resisted a moment, but then it became a question of strength. Lyonette doubted the [Diplomat] could throw Marvus. More than that—she turned to Ilvriss as the mood suddenly changed.
Rabbo Golva blinked and shook himself like a dog coming awake, and then other people were laughing and following Marvus, who was calling for drinks.
“What was that?”
“I don’t—know. Nerul can throw anyone he wants in a social engagement, even the most annoying or aggressive people. I’ve never seen that happen.”
Ilvriss blinked just as hard. They saw Nerul trying to pull the conversation back to them, but Marvus was getting everyone drinks and commenting on the fight. It was when Nanette came over and tugged on Lyonette’s arm that the [Princess] understood.
Well, it was her mother’s dry voice in her ear that made her insides tighten up.
“The [Diplomat] made the error of losing a fight to the [Cattle Baron]. It’s probably a Skill. [Might Makes Right] or some variant. Or just the fact that he lost the fight.”
“Is that what it is?”
Nanette exclaimed, and would have asked more, until Lyonette covered the speaking stone.
“Nanette, stop talking to busybodies. Ask the Quarass if you have these kinds of questions.”
Oooh. The [Princess] saw the little witch’s mouth drop open in delight at that level of pettiness. But Lyonette was now worried, because Ielane was right, damn her.
Lyonette didn’t get it until she saw Marvus gesturing with his fists, occasionally feinting at Nerul or acting—well, like a giant bully. Nerul was good; he barely reacted to the provocations, but it didn’t matter.
Damn it. She’d never thought Nerul could lose a fight, but clearly, in the land of masculine machismo or the language of people who respected a good punch, he’d fallen behind. He eventually escaped the drinking and strode over.
“Ancestors damn it, this is why you never drink in bars before engaging. They got me, Nephew. You need to step up.”
Nerul shook out his lapels, exasperated, and Ilvriss nodded.
“Just tell us what to do, Nerul.”
“In two words? Impress them! Make it so they think they need you more than they need to be rid of you! Damn, damn, damn. He’s uniting them around hating us, and that Aronia’s tough too.”
Colfa nodded.
“She’s got the other house ladies united. And they’re going to start bullying you now. Watch out.”
Lyonette thought that meant someone tossing drinks or sabotage Calanferian style. But she didn’t see any of that, and then she heard someone break out a fiddle and blinked as Marvus turned. He took a huge bite of a skewer of meat, tossed it at his wife, who did the same before passing it around, and hollered.
“Enough talking for a second! This is a cookout—let’s have some dancing! You lot dance?”
Ilvriss and Lyonette exchanged glances. They smiled.
Did they dance? The Wall Lord offered Lyonette a hand, and she bowed.
“We could do some impressing.”
Nerul sat down, wiping at his brows, as Nanette came to offer him a hand. He lifted a palm.
“I appreciate the offer, Miss Nanette, but I think I need to monitor things. This is not going according to plan.”
The young witch put her hands on her hips. She’d already made inroads with some of Aronia’s children; they’d given her a cowboy hat and even a leather jacket she was going to incorporate into her style, and she’d traded them a soccer jersey from Liscor and was making friends.
“They’re playing into our trap, Nerul. Lyonette and Ilvriss’ dancing turned Oteslia on its head.”
The big Drake grunted.
“True. They’re both dancing experts, trained from birth. Tell me. Do you think either have practiced square dancing? Country dancing? Line dances?”
The young witch hesitated. She lifted the speaking stone.
“Er, Your Majesty?”
“What do you think?”
 
——
 
It would be wrong to assume that Lyonette and Ilvriss were out of their element when the dancing began. Oh, they were. Lyonette quickly realized that the rougher ground and the boots that everyone wore meant there were no gliding moves, and there was a certain high-stepping energy to the Lischelles’ dances.
However! She was a [Princess], and dead gods damnit, this was what she had been bred for! Ilvriss eyed the two-stepping jig as they observed. No one was walking them through the dancing, but Lyonette bet everyone was watching them to see if they failed.
None of the other Drakes or Gnolls were trying to dance. Welsca was observing from the sides with the uncomfortable Salazsarians, and while Nerul could probably dance, no one wanted to but Nanette.
“You don’t have to dance, Lyonette. I feel like I’ve given you a headache—I don’t know if I can keep up with the steps.”
She gave him a patently annoyed, bright smile.
“Ilvriss, I’m here to resolve this pettiness. And I dance.”
“Yes, but we don’t have any practice. Erin could—”
She poked him in the chest. That was a sore point with Lyonette, actually. She loved Erin, but—
“Ilvriss Gemscale. Erin is not the first [Dancer] in the inn. I don’t have the class because [Princesses] dance like we breathe!”
“…Seldomly observed, in my experience?”
She colored as he replied, then snapped back.
“You’ve seen me dance! I love dancing, I just don’t have any partners who can keep up with me! Now, let’s show them—”
She held out a hand, and he took it. For a moment, they were whirling on Oteslia’s dance floor. Ilvriss cautiously watched the swing dancing, then Lyonette went in, and he followed and—
 
——
 
“Strike me with a horseshoe. I didn’t know Drakes could dance.”
Marvus and Aronia loved dancing, but they were more focused on the intruders than anything else, and they’d expected both to back out. What they hadn’t expected was to see the [Princess], if the rumors that one of Aronia’s aunts had brought up was true, and the Wall Lord go swinging around by the elbows and match the other dancers kick for kick.
“They’re not bad.”
That was the best compliment Aronia dished out; she was all competition, but she just took another bite from the skewer and then casually nodded to the musicians. This wasn’t a social engagement.
Accordingly—Burlise glanced up and stopped whirling a young man who worked for the Lischelles around on the dance floor. She tugged him away, and Nanette, who’d grabbed a boy her age and was dancing energetically, if completely off-tempo, blinked as half the young folk dodged out of the dance floor.
“What’s going on? I like this song! It’s great!”
Lischelle music was indeed excellent with only a few string instruments. However, it picked up in sound and tempo, and Marvus led his wife onto the floor. Nanette quickly realized why their sons and daughters had evacuated.
The next song was incomparably harder in intensity. Accordingly, the line dance was a complex shuffle of feet where you placed your foot next to everyone in line in the right order—mess up once and someone was stepping on your feet or you’d be literally bumped flat.
The fact that Nanette stuck around, despite instantly tripping, earned her a lot of laughter, but not unkindly. In fact, she was the only person that Aronia liked. Marvus grinned at Nanette as her pigtails slapped her unfortunate partner in the face.
“Girl’s got heart. Nephew Tibb’s swept off his feet.”
Aronia grimaced.
“She’s a little heartbreaker. Focus, Marvus!”
The complex line dance was very impressive. Such that even the Drakes and Gnolls were nodding along as the clapping began. Out of the corner of their eyes, both husband and wife watched the [Princess] and Wall Lord bobbing their heads to the beat. Then—
They entered the line dance and kept up. Aronia actually turned her head as they did a full-body swing around, a two-step back, turn, hooking their feet in with their partner’s, unhook in a spin out, and—
Neither one fell. She swore Lyonette did flinch as the two clasped hands, but almost like she was in pain, not—
“Dead gods, they can dance.”
One of her sisters remarked, and Aronia glared.
“Pick it up.”
The dances got more complex.
 
——
 
Lyonette was enjoying herself. She saw a panting Nanette cheering for her after two more dances, and she knew she was impressing the Lischelles. Even Colfa was impressed; she’d taken a few partners onto the floor, but she probably missed Himilt.
But she was fast enough. The [Princess] was grinning as Ilvriss took a gulp of water.
“Not bad, huh?”
“Not bad! But let’s have an old-fashioned dance next! Who’s up for the old Highstepper?”
Marvus shouted, and Lyonette instantly saw half the adults leave the floor. Marvus’ own children turned their heads, and she smiled.
“Oh, I think they’re pulling out a hard dance, Ilvriss. Let’s do th—”
Marvus and Aronia Lischelle took the floor as the [Fiddler] spat on her hands, then took up the bow. She began to play like a maniac, and the Human and Drake stared.
There were damned dances like the legendary 5-Step from Terandria. In the annals of horrific ankle-destroying dances, the Highstepper—or Shepherd’s Highstepper—was one such.
It was both complex and fast. How fast? Well, consider one of the traditional moves of a dancer. It was the casual one where you came down the floor, kicking a foot in and out, switching feet every step. It looked very lovely when you did it. You normally did it to the beat of a song, fast enough.
Step-step-step-step, about as fast as you clapped your hands together at a decent pace. The Highstepper had you doing that move about two steps per second.
And that was just one move. Lyonette thought of herself as an excellent dancer, but her jaw dropped as she saw Marvus and Aronia, who were not, politely, in the same weight class as her and Ilvriss speeding across the floor, holding their belts, trousers flashing.
“Ancestors!”
And they were dancing together. Half the Highstepper’s moves treated you as a unit; you had to keep in tune with your partner. Any mistake would definitely send you sprawling.
First went Marvus and Aronia. Then Rabbo Golva and his wife joined the procession, and Lyonette’s heart sank.
They were dancing like Demons! The Death of Footwork! When the third [Cattle Baroness] and her husband demonstrated the dance, she knew they had to do it.
“Ilvriss, let’s—”
They needed to practice. But the Wall Lord just stared at the feet and blanched.
“Lyonette, that’s way beyond anything I’ve ever seen. I don’t think—”
“Nonsense! If they can do it, we can! We’re half their age!”
“You’re half their age. Okay, dead gods, let’s…”
The others gave them two circuits of the dance, and then every eye turned to the [Princess] and Wall Lord. They could have bowed out, of course. There was no shame in not dancing the obviously incredibly hard dance.
Just…
A [Princess] and a Wall Lord glanced at each other, and admitting when they couldn’t do things was something they’d obviously been taught you could do.
If you were other people. They strode over, faced each other, and put their hands on their belts. Nanette Weishart covered her eyes, then peeked.
 
——
 
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle gave Lyonette this: her friend was no coward. And she was very good, but the Highstepper? She never had a chance.
They made it sixteen seconds, which was twice as long as Colfa would have bet, before Lyonette misjudged a step, tangled with Ilvriss’ tail as he turned the wrong way, and they went sprawling.
Cue laughter like it was the funniest thing anyone had ever seen. The [Princess] got up slowly, and Colfa wondered if Lyonette’s condition meant—
No, Ushar was there, and she even had a covert healing potion. Colfa relaxed, and that was that.
No one was going to make the two do the Highstepper again. It was just—a message.
As if everything else tonight hadn’t been a big one as to how welcome Ilvriss was. Normally, you bought anyone who tried the Highstepper a drink. Ilvriss was alone as he limped back to his side of the dancefloor to ask Nerul if his tail looked broken.
“Hah! That was worth all the effort!”
Marvus grinned at the Drakes as Colfa heard the Lischelles mocking the [Princess] and her people. They might have been smiles at times, and Nanette had won some admirers, but that was kids. Lyonette and Ilvriss had to know that behind all this façade was a knife, and it was being sharpened.
“It does my heart good to see a noblewoman sprawl like the rest of us.”
Aronia was gloating too, and this, more than anything, prompted Colfa to walk over. She pointedly eyed the skewer of meat that Marvus had prepared and put her hands on her hips.
“You two can stop acting now. If you could do the Highstepper without that [Fleetfoot Grill], you’d deserve to look down your noses at them. What’s old Rabbo’s trick? [Drunker Dancing]?”
She’d noticed him taking down shots before he stepped over; he seemed distinctly unsteady now.
Everyone cheated at the Highstepper. Unless, of course, you could just do it without help. Aronia lost her smile. She locked eyes with her older sister, Colfa, who could do the Highstepper in her youth. And who was not bowing to the unspoken rules of nicety here.
“Colfa. First you call a cookout for that Drake, now you want to lecture us on having a bit of fun?”
“They’re coming here and willing to try the Highstepper in the name of peace. Can’t you give them the time of day? Marvus, how many men have you lost in fights with Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
He hesitated, then nodded at her stiffly.
“Colfa. None save for some broken bones but—”
“Do you think any Wall Lord would be half as reasonable as Wall Lord Ilvriss? Believe me, he’s trying to be diplomatic.”
“No one asked him to come here, Colfa. Where’s Himilt?”
“Working our farm. I’m here as a favor to Ilvriss.”
“How much of a favor?”
One of their sisters-in-law asked snidely, and Colfa glanced at her, and the woman hesitated. Skilless she might be, but Colfa had lived here.
“None of a Skill. Neither one needs it. It’s called mutual respect, Maire. Something you might have forgotten.”
“You’ve got a lot of nerve walking in here and insulting the family, Colfa. And trading in on our name in the north, I heard. I’ve had Lischelle-Drakle products. They’re not much of anything.”
Colfa reddened as Aronia peered at her fingernails because it was true. Without Skills, the most she and Himilt could do was treat their animals right. She had used the name to keep the farm selling well. Colfa took a breath.
“We made a living up there as best we could. I haven’t asked for any favors. I’m asking for one now. Just hear them out.”
She didn’t know if Ilvriss would tell the Lischelles what they were searching for. It’d come out sooner or later, Ilvriss had admitted, but…Aronia stepped forwards.
“If you’re such a friend, why don’t you tell them to turn around, Colfa? Or do you think we’re working with the enemy?”
“They’re not the same Drakes you go to war with, Aronia. Get the wool out of your ears.”
“Do not come in here and try to give me orders, Colfa.”
The two women glared at each other as Marvus backed up. He was not going to get in the way of this one. Colfa felt something pushing on her.
Aura. Dead gods, her younger sister had become a force every bit as strong as their mother. Colfa wanted to be proud, but she remembered why she’d left. She lowered her voice until they were both whispering.
“Don’t make this personal, Aronia. I’ve left you alone.”
“Personal? You don’t visit, you don’t speak to us—I had to ask for a picture of Rivel!”
“It’s another life—”
“One you’ve always wanted! So don’t come crawling back to us! I’m glad your farm went under. I always said you could do better than that fellow, Himilt, but you chose him, but it’s disrespectful to us and the animals to do that poorly.”
That one hurt. Colfa’s head jerked with the impact of a Skill that went along with the slap of an insult. She took a breath and fired back.
“No matter how big Marvus makes our herds, you’re never going to be better than mother. You’re just the Lischelle ‘lady’. And however much you play at being the gracious country royalty, Lyonette can see right through it and all your petty little barbs that you never grew out of because you’re so insec—”
She had been waiting for the slap. Aronia might have wanted to play nice and polite, but she had a temper like one of their bulls, and she came with a lefthanded slap that had made her famous.
Colfa blocked her hand with her own, and the ground shifted as she slid back a pace. There was a gasp from everyone behind Aronia. No one blocked that—
Colfa’s right hand cracked across Aronia’s cheek so fast her younger sister blinked and wobbled. Then the red mark appeared, and she went cross-eyed a second. Colfa hadn’t hit Aronia as hard as she could, but she raised her other hand as Lyonette, Ilvriss, and everyone stared.
“You want to throw down, Aronia? Don’t tempt me.”
The [Cattle Baroness]’ eyes narrowed. She raised her right hand, and Colfa sighed. She caught Aronia’s hand with the speed only a Vampire could achieve. As long as she caught a Skill, it was f—
Aronia twisted under Colfa’s arm, and her left hand came around in a backhand. Colfa tried to dodge, but her head somehow jerked back and still ended up straight in the path of the hand.
“Rhir’s hells, she’s got another Sk—”
 
——
 
Lyonette had seen the slap and been aghast. She’d had fights with her sisters, but hair-pulling at worst. Never anything physical.
But she was a [Princess], and Colfa had hit Aronia hard. Lyonette had seen how strong and fast Colfa could be as a Vampiress, even one without Fierre’s full strength.
She did not expect Colfa to go flying across the cookout, hit the ground, roll once onto her feet, and skid four paces. Her cheek was completely red, instantly swollen, and she wobbled.
“Colfa!”
Lyonette dashed forwards in horror. She actually fell to one knee, then gritted her teeth. There was blood oozing from her mouth; it had been cut on her teeth!
“Lyonette, get back.”
“What was—what was—”
“[Bull’s Slap]. She once slapped a bull out of the way.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped. She’d heard of hand-Skills before; Magnolia’s [Deft Hand] had once laid out a [Lord], and she’d used it to deflect arrows and even move a Mortemdefieir Titan in battle, but a slap Skill?
Colfa was working her jaw with clicking sounds.
“I’ve got this. Is that the best you’ve got, Aronia?”
“I took it easy on you, Colfa. You’ve gotten weaker.”
The [Cattle Baroness] was coming, cheek red, eyes glittering, and Colfa was gritting her teeth. Lyonette no longer had confidence Colfa was the one with the advantage. Before her very eyes, Aronia’s cheek changed from a flaming red to her regular skin tone.
“What is that?”
“[Ignored Insult]. She’s always been tough. Lyonette, get out of the way, she’s going to hit you or anything else in the way, and she can lay out Ilvriss.”
Lyonette actually didn’t doubt that if Aronia had once knocked a bull aside. The left hand of doom rose, and Colfa shook out hers.
“Excuse me, enough. I don’t know why you’re fighting, but Colfa is my friend. Kindly desist.”
Lyonette spoke to Aronia. The [Baroness]’ eyes blazed.
“I will not be told to stop in my home when someone’s breached all niceties. Back up, Princess or whatever you’re supposed to be.”
She raised a hand, and Lyonette caught it with her own. She called on her aura.
[Calming Touch], [Imperial Aura], the authority of The Wandering Inn and Calanfer…she didn’t use her Skills as much as she should. She had so many.
So many negatives. Her body was screaming from trying that dance. Her [Crippled Reflexes] meant she couldn’t do the Highstepper, much like the 5-Step. But she was angry. And a [Princess].
“Miss Aronia, I said enough.”
The royal power ran through her, and Aronia’s arm began to lower like she had a huge weight on it. She wavered, then her eyes blazed.
“No one orders me around in my household.”
Her hand came up, and Colfa snapped.
“Don’t!”
She blocked the slap. So did Lyonette with a gasp as she felt the Skill coming and halted it. The very air snapped with a shockwave that blasted around the two, and there was another gasp.
The legendary Lischelle slap blocked twice? Aronia’s eyes widened, and her other hand came up with the wrath of—
She saw the [Princess]’s head snap around, and Lyonette twirled in place. Twice, three times—Colfa’s eyes slid sideways, and she and her sister froze.
“Lyonette?”
Lyonette completed four full rotations. Her eyes were rolled up in her head. And her cheek—looked distinctly indented, as if someone had hit it with a hand.
Despite never having been touched? Colfa’s eyes widened.
Oh no. [Resonant Flesh]. Lyonette’s new—
Dame Ushar caught Lyonette as the [Princess] went down, healing potion already in hand. Aronia hesitated.
“Was that—?”
Ilvriss had leapt to his feet with a shout. The Salazsarians were standing, and even the other rancher families were confused, wondering if Aronia had hit Lyonette after all. The way she’d gone down looked really bad.
Was—
Were those red cracks on her skin? Aronia stared at the makeup that had opened to reveal cracks on the [Princess], like a porcelain doll that had fallen. Then she heard someone clear her throat and a thwap! of sound that made everyone flinch.
Marvus Lischelle stopped and stared at the vibrating crossbow bolt four inches away from his right foot. He nearly reached for a knife, but it wasn’t a Drake or Gnoll who’d fired the hand-crossbow.
Nanette Weishart reloaded the crossbow, then aimed it at Aronia’s shin.
“Step away from my mother, please, and give Dame Ushar room. Touch her again and I will shoot you somewhere you won’t recover.”
She smiled as her eyes filled with worry for her downed mother. Wall Lord Ilvris looked around, then rubbed at his forehead.
This meeting had not gone well.
 
——
 
When Lyonette got up, everything hurt. Her legs, her spine, her back—and especially her cheek.
“I regret that. Ushar, healing potion.”
The [Knight]’s face swam into visibility as Ushar helped her up; they were still at the cookout, it seemed, though the partying seemed mostly done. Ushar gave Lyonette a concerned gaze.
“You had one already, Your Highness—”
“I did? Damnit.”
The [Princess] cursed. Her body did not heal well, it seemed. But at least she wasn’t dead. Aronia Lischelle hit like Lord Raithland. 
“What’s happened? Is anyone dead?”
“Your daughter threatened to shoot Miss Aronia with a crossbow when you fell.”
“Oh no—”
Lyonette sat up in alarm, but she found, instead of a full battle or standoff, Aronia Lischelle sitting at a table with a cup of coffee, pouring one for Colfa and Nanette. She was all smiles and, when Lyonette stared at her, waved a hand.
“Miss Lyonette? Your young daughter is quite stellar. I am so sorry about that. I had no idea you had a—such a condition. Won’t you sit? Are you well? We have a [Healer] coming.”
She was all smiles and politeness again. Even to Colfa, who was sipping from a cup as Nanette added milk to her coffee. She gave her mother a nod.
“Miss Aronia was quite apologetic, Mother. She had no idea about your cracks. Um, which are showing.”
Lyonette’s hands flew to her face, but Aronia broke in, voice gentle.
“I’d never have involved you in my tiff with Colfa if I’d known—you must be careful, Lyonette! What a dreadful ailment! And Nanette says it’s from a class?”
“Yes, a—it’s to help a friend. I’m fine, Nanette. And thank you, Miss Aronia. I hope we can be peaceful?”
“Absolutely.”
Colfa and Aronia assured Lyonette. They even gave each other what looked like genuine smiles. Everyone insisted Lyonette sit and have the coffee, which the Lischelles loved so damn much.
 
——
 
“Puts my hair up when the womenfolk play nice after that kind of throwdown. We can just hate each other straight, eh, Wall Lord?”
For once, Ilvriss had to agree with Marvus. They were having a drink to the side next to some of the fences that bordered the prime Lischelle land. Ilvriss was just glad Lyonette was alive.
“Your wife’s hand seems like a force of nature, if that’s not rude, Baron.”
Marvus laughed.
“She’s killed monsters with it. I don’t know…I’m glad she’s not dead. That Miss Lyonette.”
Ilvriss swallowed his ale hard.
“That’s likely?”
“If she got hit at full power? It’d break her neck.”
Ilvriss’ guess was that Lyonette’s Skill had given her the blow minus the actual force of it or she might have actually died there. Or perhaps Ushar had helped; she’d been there with shield raised to block the slap too.
Well, the truce between him and Marvus caused by the social fight between sisters had a half-life, and it was wearing off. The [Rancher] nodded at his farms.
“See my herds?”
“Prime Lischelle beef. Very impressive. I might not know much about ranching, but I do know something about economics, and this is a rich operation.”
Ilvriss tried his best, and Marvus grunted.
“You speak like a [Merchant]. It sure is all that. But I mean look at my cattle. Anything stand out?”
Lots of cows? They didn’t all have that black-and-white spot coloration that Ilvriss was used to. You had hairy cows, brown cows, grey cows, blue cows. Magical breeds and nonmagical, and this was just one herd, he knew. Plenty of space so they didn’t transmit diseases, probably rotated into different areas to graze, shepherd dogs, plenty of [Ranchers] who’d milk and feed and take care of them and—
He blinked.
Ilvriss saw a bull.
He could tell it was a bull because even as an amateur to the country, bulls were bigger. And had horns. And were just…more ominous than cows.
You thought bulls were big. But until you saw one, really got up close and saw one, multiple tons of living weight, longer than you were tall by far and just…huge…
You didn’t realize how scary one was. Ilvriss had a respect for his warhorse, which could kill someone with a hoof. This bull was brown with one huge, rolling eye focused his way as it stood with some much smaller cows.
It made Ilvriss’ scales itch like [Dangersense]. Marvus nodded to it.
“That there is Big Burlap, my prime bull. Thirteen years old. Thirteen feet long. Guess how heavy he is.”
Ilvriss recalled some spreadsheets.
“Most bulls get to around one ton to two without Skills, but they can go even higher. Four thousand pounds?”
That was a thousand higher than any one he’d seen. Marvus took a deep drink.
“Five. He’s got all my Skills on him. More children than you can dream of. And you know what? That’s his pasture.”
They were leaning against the fence. But no one was beyond the gates. Not dogs nor the [Ranchers]. Marvus went on.
“When he’s there, no one goes beyond the gates. We’ve got bulls in plenty of pastures. One in a thousand of ‘em are friendly. We don’t need no guard dogs nor [Ranchers] watching overnight. Not with them. We had Carn Wolves come this way once. Ever seen them? Nastiest wolves I ever did see, three times bigger than normal.”
“I’ve seen them.”
“The bulls got ‘em. Big Burlap there killed three. Now, you think he’s just a bull, dumb as can be. But he sees everything. Bulls can see almost entirely behind them.”
“Really?”
That seemed improbable, but Marvus nodded.
“Oh yes. Almost every part but the exact behind him—so if he’s turned his head, he’s still watching you. And you think you’re fast. Maybe you think you can jump the fence or get around him. You just try it. I’ll watch.”
He was encouraging. Ilvriss glanced at Big Burlap, who was just standing there. And, Ilvriss noticed, not eating grass or wandering off. Watching the newcomers he didn’t know.
He reminded Ilvriss of Zel Shivertail when the Drake went still, and that was the oddest, most telling comparison he had because that was how dangerous the bull seemed. And at five thousand pounds of angry muscle…he might actually hit as hard as the Tidebreaker.
“Good to know. We didn’t buy any bulls, but I have respect for that.”
Marvus grunted.
“Well, Big Burlap knows his territory. He knows me. And I never go out there without something t’stand behind or a Wand of Paralysis. Even if I think he likes me. He’s killed men. Not many, and only fools or I’d have had to put him down. But that’s his land, and whatever troubles his kids’n wives dies.”
He swung to face Ilvriss.
“That’s his land. This is mine.”
Marvus pointed at the ground, and his chest inflated, much like the bull himself. Full of distrust, and dislike written all over his blunt face.
And pride. Something had been bugging Ilvriss this entire time the cookout had been going on. He had assumed that Lyonette would have a bit more notoriety because she was a [Princess]. Everyone knew it. Not even in a ‘ha-ha, what [Princess], this is Lionette’ kind of way.
She was a [Princess], and no one was rushing to treat her incredibly different. True, Aronia and Marvus’ children looked a bit starstruck, but their parents were cordial at best. Aronia had nearly taken Lyonette out of this world with a slap! Didn’t a [Princess] trump all other cards?
Well, not in Izril. And not here, Ilvriss realized, because Marvus spread his arms.
“You must’ve thought it was too easy to walk in here, the Cowpat Plains, and plant a claim, didn’t you? This here—no one owns this land. No cities, no [Lords].”
“I did think it was odd.”
Marvus spat a commendable distance.
“Well, that’s because the noble houses who owned this place all died in the Sacrifice of Roses. Not that there were many. When I was a boy, you’d be dodging their bullyboys shaking you down for grazing in their lands. For what? They said they kept down bandits and monsters, but I dealt with both growing up and never saw their people doing a thing. Then came the Goblins, and they all fled.”
Just as well no one knew about the inn’s policy on Goblins. It was a story Ilvriss had heard before from Drakes just as upset the Walled Cities had fallen back and abandoned them during the Antinium Wars. He listened as Marvus’ voice rose.
“So you know what we did? We moved in. All the biggest ranch-families. We rebuilt the herds. Married each other, hired on new hands. All this is ten years of work. And when the nobles came back, sayin’ this was their lands, well, they didn’t say it long.”
“You warred with the Five Families?”
Marvus half-turned and spat again, but his voice lowered a touch.
“Them? None of them ever came down this far. That Terland in Celum and Magnolia Reinhart are the only ones who’ve ever paid attention to the south. I’m talking regular nobles with a hundred men who think they can string up a few people and arrest the others and make an example. They weren’t prepared for a war. You’ve brought enough Drakes to make a proper fight, but you never tried it.”
“I did not come here for blood.”
“Shame.”
For a moment, Marvus’ eyes seemed like that of Big Burlap. He leaned against the fence as the bull watched them in the distance.
“We can keep raiding you all day and night, Wall Lord. My boys get a concussion one night and roll out of bed the next day bright and cheerful. They don’t get tired, they don’t quit. I don’t know how you got Colfa on your side, but Aronia’s out-levelled her. She shouldn’t have slapped that [Princess], but I’m surprised she even managed to walk on her.”
And there it was. Ilvriss felt a tingle on his scales, and an unpleasant idea crept into his head. Maybe it wasn’t Nerul getting beaten in a fight. Maybe it wasn’t just the odd customs of these people or the dislike between Drakes and Humans.
The Goblin King had destroyed a good portion of the north. Ilvriss had never heard it framed as anything other than a disaster, especially to the nobility’s populations. But it had resulted in a consolidation of strength. Tyrion Veltras, Magnolia Reinhart, the leadership of the north had levels as a result of the war. High level individuals, even if the majority had failed to level and just—died.
Only, there were no nobles here. Ilvriss gazed at Big Burlap’s herd, and then his eyes roamed the rest of the plains. All he saw were grazing animals. Far as the eye could see, not one huge line of them, because that was bad ranching, but herds upon herds.
“Your beef feeds most of Izril, doesn’t it, Marvus?”
The [Rancher] snorted.
“It feeds most of the world. High-grade stuff, not whatever the local [Farmer] is selling with his cheap cows.”
“How many herds do you have, if I may ask? How many heads of cattle?”
“You think I count all that? Aronia’s the one with a head for numbers.”
But there was a glint in his eyes. Ilvriss glanced around, casual.
“I’d guess, based on similar productions around Salazsar, that you’d be able to take on, oh, twenty thousand head of cattle at most. That’s about what we have.”
That was also a lie; the biggest ranch he knew of was 18,000 head of cattle. He knew Gnollish tribes could exceed those numbers, or at least, they had, but Marvus? He threw his head back and laughed hugely.
“You’re talking about Shimmerbeef Pastures. I know ‘em. They’re not as good as our beef. Had that nasty plague two years back. Sure, they’re around there. Last I checked, we have sixty thousand head of cattle. Just the Lischelles. That’s the difference between your ranches and ours.”
Ancestors. It confirmed Ilvriss’ suspicions. Reluctantly, he glanced up and took a long drink from his mug. And he admitted it.
The other man was pressuring him. Not with his aura, but just his presence. Ilvriss was once again out-levelled. Ilvriss twisted a ring on one finger on a hunch, then sighed.
Marvus Lischelle, [Rancher Baron of the Wild Plains], Level 42.
He didn’t even have a ring of anti-appraisal. He didn’t have bodyguards or high-level magic, but who needed those here? He was master of all he surveyed, with an army of [Ranchers]. The [Cattle Baron] lifted his mug and drank.
“To good food, civility at cookouts, and fine dancin’.”
Then Marvus poured out the rest of his drink onto the ground. He rolled his shoulders.
“Get off my land. You think we’re bad now? We’re just warming up. Ain’t nothing you, that Drake with the fancy Skills, nor anyone can do about it.”
After a second, he added.
“You best check on that [Princess], though. If Aronia’s hit her that hard, she might have addled her brains, even if she can walk. She hit someone she was fighting with once. Fellow walked it off, lay down, never got back up.”
Ilvriss took a drink from his mug as Marvus walked away, hands in his pockets. The Wall Lord had to say it.
“Humans.”
He thought about that, then amended his statement.
“Ranchers.”
That felt more accurate. Smaller mass generalizations.
 
——
 
Two things happened before they left. Nerul was shaking his head, adjusting his suit.
“I’m off, Nephew. We can’t do more here; we’ve been a bit trounced, but we made some good impressions. Not ideal. I’ll tell Captain Shieldscale to prepare for raids. Even tonight.”
Ilvriss was cursing as he decided to go around one last time to at least thank everyone—Lyonette still looked woozy, which was why he was delaying departure.
He was walking around when he saw Aronia’s daughter, Burlise. With the Drakes and Gnolls leaving, some people had actually begun poking around the gifts table.
Several bottles of wine had vanished; the other rancher-families were heading off, and a few had wandered by the tables to take the expensive wine. Same for the ice cream; Ilvriss swore he’d seen one of the uncles pouring it into a container, possibly to just eat or re-freeze.
He understood that. You didn’t show you appreciated the gifts. Drakes did something of the same thing, only their version was to thank someone for the gift, take it—they took everything valuable—then put it next to a better gift to pointedly show how less valuable yours was.
Good old fashioned hostilities. There was something noble about the Lischelles after all, but sometimes you couldn’t resist.
Burlise, for instance, just had to peer at some of the gems, but she was trying to do it without anyone watching. She jumped as one of her relatives turned, hid a gemstone behind her back—and it squirted out of slippery hands. Then she stepped on it.
“Oh no!”
Ilvriss went striding over instantly when he turned, saw the broken gem flashing with vanishing magic, and heard Burlise’s shout. Marvus was there before him.
“Burlise! Look what you’ve done!”
“I didn’t—I only wanted to look—”
“Allow me. Let me see which one broke.”
The [Cattle Baron] really wanted Ilvriss gone so he could start raiding the Drake, and he was embarrassed. He blocked Ilvriss.
“It’s all fine. The rest’s all there, and it’s her fault, no need to try and replace it or nothin’—”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“Not that! It’s a magical gemstone! They can cause damage when they’re broken like that! When the magic releases—one side!”
Marvus hesitated, then his eyes widened and stepped aside. Ilvriss knelt down.
“Does your skin feel fine, Miss? Let me see which gem it was…just one of the Lightning Topazes. Good. That one just discharges. You didn’t feel a jolt, right? Welsca, get me an analysis paper!”
She dashed over with a kit, and he held out a piece of paper as Burlise assured him that she was fine and she hadn’t felt…anything? Ilvriss nodded and wiped at his brows. He turned to Marvus.
“Just a discharge. If it had actually affected her, it’d have soaked into her skin.”
“You can do that with gemstones?”
“Magical ones, yes. But they don’t usually break easily; it must have been a stone and the exact right pressure, or just one that had a weakness that wasn’t spotted. I apologize, but they’re made into magical artifacts or used in magic, so there is a danger involved, even if the case should be fine.”
Marvus nodded.
“Right. Good. Burlise, take the case inside so no one does anything foolish like that again. Carefully. Thank the Wall Lord.”
“Th-thanks, sir. Sorry about that.”
She nodded at him, and Marvus nodded too.
“Thank you.”
Ilvriss stuck out a hand. The [Cattle Baron] hesitated.
“I really am just digging for something important. I don’t want to steal it or cause hostilities. My people used to live here, Baron, but I see this is your land.”
Can we at least try? The man stared at Ilvriss, and his hand twitched before he tucked it under an armpit.
“I’ve lost brothers, friends, and more to the Bloodfields. My da fought in wars against your lot.”
“So did mine. We don’t have to keep doing it.”
“Funny. I heard Drakes say that only when they’re losing.”
Marvus was searching Ilvriss’ face, but that hostility—Ilvriss knew it. He’d been Marvus in many ways, and he exhaled. How did you convince him? Did the [Cattle Baron] have a Periss to lose and a magical [Innkeeper]? Ilvriss turned to Lyonette…but the [Princess] was woozy, so he turned back.
“I won’t leave. And with respect, I’d like t—”
He heard the shouts, the cries of alarm, then the sound like a roaring, raging moo, but braying, almost comical until the notes of real desperation and horror were in the air. Marvus whirled.
“Someone’s gotten into the pastures.”
He glanced at Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord turned his head. He started running—but there was just one scream. Just one, then silence.
When he got there, he knew what he’d find.
 
——
 
It wasn’t Wall Lord Dramm’s fault. He was standing there, with a lot of the younger officers, at the paddock’s gate. They’d been stopped from going in by the [Ranchers]. It wasn’t his fault, but Ilvriss just gazed at him.
Then at the dead Drake boy the [Ranchers] had pulled from the fence beyond.
“It—he just—we were talking, and he thought that if they were stealing our cows, why not steal them, Wall Lord. I—we—”
One of his friends had tears in his eyes. He’d been egging the boy, Gem Officer Liuss, to hop the fence and try wrangling some cows or letting them out. Someone might have told them about the bull, but like Marvus said, the huge animals didn’t appear fast.
It had run him over, snapped his spine, and crushed his head in. Ilvriss stared at the bull. Marvus had his hat in his hands. For all he hated Drakes, he was shaken.
“Never go in a bull pen. You never…he’s a vicious one. You and you. Put him down.”
It was what you did to bulls that were too murderous, Ilvriss supposed. He thanked Marvus, then stood there.
“We need to bring him back and cremate his remains. Who has a bag of holding?”
When he spoke, the younger officers jerked. Dramm spoke up.
“Bag of holding? Sir, we can carry—”
Ilvriss just regarded him.
“No.”
“Sir, I knew Liuss! He’s no Wall Lord, but we—”
Ilvriss wanted to shout at the boy. To take out the anger and loss on him, but that was bad leadership, so he walked over, put a hand on Dramm’s shoulder, and looked in the boy’s eyes. He didn’t know what was on his face, but he glanced at the others.
“Wall Lord Dramm. It’s miles to camp. On horseback. It’s getting dark, and how would we bear him? On foot? In a tarp? Insects will be after him, next. I wish to do Liuss the dignity he deserves. The bag of holding is a necessity. I have buried comrades in due time, but we carried them in Chests of Holding. Let’s go.”
Welsca produced her own bag of holding, and he nodded at her. In silence, Ilvriss turned.
“Mount up. Someone ask if Miss Lyonette needs an escort back, but I believe she may wish to find her own way. Let’s go.”
A terrible note to end the night on. He rode, head bowed, as the silence began, then recriminations. Arguing and shouting, and he just thought to himself. Liuss was young; he’d have been one of the youngest. So if there was someone who would get in trouble and get away from it, the lowest on the chain of command, it’d have to be him. It wasn’t Dramm’s fault, but…that was why it was him who was dead.
Because they stole from us, we have to steal from them.
“Drakes.”
 
——
 
Xesci greeted Ilvriss back at camp. She was smiling, having set up her brothel. She hadn’t known about Liuss. She stood there.
“Poor boy. Aside from that, I take it the meeting went poorly. I thought it might, even with Nerul.”
He just stared at her. She pulled up her skirt and began inserting something into her—
“Xesci, what are you doing?”
“Cleaning up. Right, sorry, sensibilities. And deaths—tragic. People die, Wall Lord. I wish I could be more horrified, but I used to run with the Sisters of Chell. They die fast and hard.”
Sometimes, he forgot how jaded she was. Even so, he didn’t feel like addressing her while she was taking care of her unmentionables with a dead boy whose family needed to be told.
“If you don’t mind, Xesci? I’d like a moment.”
“Of course, Wall Lord.”
She was walking out when he stopped her.
“Why…did you avoid coming to the cookout? And how’d you know it would go poorly, even with Nerul? We could have used you there.”
She turned and half-smiled at him.
“I’ve been to Cowpat Plains, Ilvriss. I worked across Izril. I know Baroness Aronia’s type, and I’m the class she doesn’t want anything to do with. She’d let me in, of course, niceties being what they are around here, but it would make the visit even worse. I doubted it’d work because, well, they hate you.”
She shrugged. Ilvriss stared at her. Stared at his desk.
“I thought we had a chance. If we were reasonable, polite, made good offers—”
This time, the [Courtesan of Change] smiled, and her face was merciless. Without vindictiveness either, just cold.
“Wall Lord. I knew you by reputation before we met. A year or two ago, you’d have murdered every Human trying to ranch around Salazsar. Oh, you’d have done it with armies and legality, but you would have slaughtered them.”
He opened his mouth, and she leaned over the desk.
“You made war against the Trisstral Alliance and Zel Shivertail. Thousands of Drakes and Gnolls died. It was over trade. The same Tidebreaker everyone mourned, you were dueling to the death along the High Passes.”
“I wasn’t trying to kill him—”
But it had been a battlefield. If he had died, Ilvriss would have probably said to his father it was—
Rattled, the Wall Lord leaned back in his seat, and Xesci shrugged.
“Just remember that’s where he is. I can feel it. They want you dead, and the only reason they’re not shooting arrows is because they don’t know how many [Soldiers] Salazsar will send. You won’t have Humans who come from here working anywhere, not in any numbers. Morale’s low in camp after the death. I’ll raise it with the girls and boys. That’s my contribution.”
She walked out. Ilvriss sat there and just remembered the scream. The boy’s face. He had to write a letter to his family. How did he phrase it? It wasn’t a combat death…
 
——
 
There was one last piece of misery, and this was not meant to be funny humor to undercut the horror of the death.
It was just…it was just damned inconvenience.
Ilvriss had a chamberpot to relieve himself with. Which you tossed in the damn cesspool that was a literal pond of sewage. Small wonder they called this place the damn Cowpat Plains. It was cattle and Humans.
He hated it. He hated that this trivial, gross act bothered him when he should focus on a young Drake being dead, but he just couldn’t deal with the chamberpot.
“Anything for a damn toilet. Anything!”
He knew the Humans didn’t like it either. They laughed at him, joked about it, but the outhouses in the Lischelle lands had stunk of flies, and he saw people grimacing, Humans or Drakes (he had exempted Gnolls on the grounds of the smell) when they dragged it to the septic pond.
Well, that’s the one thing the Lischelles didn’t have. Plumbing. Damn them. Damn it all. I thought Lyonette could do miracles. It’s not fair on her. I just—
I should have told them about the bulls when Marvus warned me. But we were leaving. Damn Dramm. Damn Drake culture and having to repay every insult.
Damn Sserys for giving me directions to this place.
“Damn the Necromancer. Damn you for leaving, Erin. Does no one care but me that he’s out there? I know there’s more! I know! But he has to die forever!”
He knew there were dead gods and horrors and—but Periss. Ilvriss sat on the ground, not the chamberpot, and pulled up his trousers. He sat, covering his face, as a fly buzzed around him. It was so hard to do this and find nothing but pieces of ceramic tiles that were supposed to be the City of Purity!
He hadn’t even shown Lyonette and Nanette the dig site because, well, there was nothing to show! Just dirt, dirt and stone, and not knowing how far down you had to dig, and he needed more personnel, and the cattle raids halted everything, and he refused to quit, but Ancestors—
An eight-foot tall Golem with a screaming bull’s face soldered to a serpentine body with daggers for fingers punched through the tent wall. It slashed down right where Ilvriss should have been if he’d been on the chamberpot.
He stared as the blades gouged a hole in the earth. The Wall Lord looked up. The Hunter-Killer Golem stood there, inspecting its hands. The Minotaur’s head rotated left and right, mouth open in a frozen scream. It turned, oddly slowly, and he scrambled to his feet.
“Ancestors. Ancest—”
It slashed and left trails of light in the air. Ilvriss jerked an arm against them, and his rings shrilled. He felt blood running down his arm as it laid open his scales. But he was busy dodging the arm, which came down like lightning. The Golem paused, head rotating as he scrambled left, shouting.
“Attack! Attack—”
 
——
 
Ulva Terland’s teeth were bared in excitement. She saw the Wall Lord fleeing, and she raised one hand, slashed—missed.
She cursed, and the watching Lords and Ladies of Hearts murmured. Ulva Terland sat in the Heart’s Connection, the device that let her operate the Hunter-Killer Golem.
It resembled a strange, circular space where the person in the seat could move a suit of armor synced up to a Golem’s body. It was a huge, cumbersome connection. If you had Skills and were closer, you could be far, far faster.
A [Golem Controller] could maneuver some Golems at the speed of thought if they were good enough and had the right Golem. But from all the way in the north? This was incredible magic.
It was also…highly suboptimal. Ulva kept missing the Wall Lord as he ran, dodging the blows she sent his way. She was already panting, and there were voices all around her, annoying her. They overlaid the sounds the Golem was hearing.
“—nt Ulva, left, left! He’s drawing his sword!”
“No, use the firebreath! It has firebreath, right?”
“Silence! I nearly have him!”
She snapped, and a voice rose above the others.
“Lady Terland, the Hunter-Killer is not indestructible! Please, relinquish control or allow one of us to take over! The Wall Lord is armed!”
A very upset [Golem Controller] was urging her to let the Golem do its job without her. Ulva was very annoyed.
She’d requested the Heart’s Connection because she’d wanted to do what every Terland desired: control a mighty Golem. But she’d failed to hit and kill the Wall Lord for whatever reason, and now—
“Ridiculous! I have him!”
She swung again, and he ducked. For such a small figure in her eyes—he was so—fast—
There was a warning siren. Someone cried out.
“Damage! Superficial across chest structure! His sword’s enchanted!”
“It barely did anything.”
Lady Ulva grumbled. But she saw the Wall Lord attacking, sword striking in artful blows. More little sirens; she had a monitor for the Golem’s health in the corner of the display. It showed the barest damage to the chest, which was enchanted metal.
But…it was a Hunter-Killer, which couldn’t be remade, and was barely repairable, even a lower-grade model. Ulva wrestled with her ego. She’d used Hunter-Killers before, when she and Petria were young, as well as any [Controller]!
Age. She stared at the liver spots on her hands, then snapped.
“—Fine. Restore the programming. But I will remain here. Transfer the spell-abilities to me.”
She kept herself hooked up to the Heart’s Connection. The relieved [Controllers] adjusted the chassis, and the Golem began to move of its own will. The viewpoint became sickeningly disorienting as it moved at increasing speeds, attacking the alarmed Wall Lord with far more finesse, and Ulva saw more icons light up.
Not many abilities. Firebreath, activating the Razorline Claws, and a temporary [Threefold Arcane Barrier]. She shrugged, then sat back, fingers resting on the activation studs in her glove’s palm. She wanted to see the Drake die.
No forgiveness for him nor the Goblins. Xitegen claimed not to have forgiven Goblins either, but he suffered them. Never here. She stared into the Drake’s eyes as he lifted his sword.
“Salazsar! Salazsar!”
Yes.
That was how she remembered them dying.
 
——
 
He should have known. Nerul had warned him he’d do his best, but some never forgave. Like him. Like his father. Ilvriss’ sword was raised in a guard stance, just as he’d practiced—but the Golem was so fast. Whatever had been wrong with it, it had nearly taken his head off twice. Only his rings had saved him, and one was now dead.
“Salazsar! Salazsar, to me!”
Confusion in the camps. Ilvriss felt like he’d been screaming for hours, but it had probably only been seconds. They—they were shouting alarms.
“Where are the Humans?”
Dead gods, they thought it was the [Ranchers]! Ilvriss slashed.
“In here! Golem attack!”
His enchanted longsword barely scored a line down the Golem’s front. In return, it slashed, and he leaned out of the way.
Remember your parrying technique—he actually deflected one arm and pushed himself off it, a move he’d learned from the sword school he’d practiced. No regular warrior fought like that. It was why he was still alive. That and Shriekblade showing him how fast a real Named-ranker moved.
His time was running out fast. Ilvriss heard a shout, then someone ran into the tent.
“The Wall Lord is under attack! Here! [Piercing Thrust]!”
The Rubirel Guard! The Drake thrust a halberd into the Golem’s side—and his enchanted weapon barely penetrated the enchanted metal. The Golem turned, slashed across the Rubirel Guard’s armor with a screech, and he staggered, but his armor saved him!
The Golem’s Minotaur head had emerald eyes. They flashed, and the Golem paused for a millisecond—then kicked the Rubirel Guard.
“Ancestors!”
It knew how to handle foes in armor! Ilvriss backed out of the outhouse tent, and the Golem came at him, not the downed guard trying to get up. He emerged into a camp in chaos. The Golem tore out of the tent, and Ilvriss saw two halberds descend and blocked them—barely. It began slashing the Rubirel Guards, but it wanted him.
“Get the Erchirite Spears!”
They needed a full battalion to charge up their spears and blast the Golem! This had to be a Terland Golem—it was taking on his bodyguard, and they weren’t dying, but neither were their halberds doing much to that metal shell!
The finest of Salazsar versus the finest of Terland. Armor versus armor, a deadlock—except for Ilvriss, who had no armor and who the Golem was targeting. He went rolling left, onto one knee, and realized it had taken off half his neck spines.
Blood was running from a huge gash down his back. The Wall Lord wavered.
“Ah.”
He was no Saliss of Lights. That one dodge had nearly killed him. He stumbled up.
“Wall Lord, back! Form the lines! Reinforcements! Rein—”
It sprayed fire at two of the Rubirel Guard attacking and leapt at him. Ilvriss flung up his sword to parry—
“[Desperation Dive]! [Thunderous Impact]!”
Captain Osthia Blackwing hit the Golem and sent it staggering back. She recoiled, flipped up into the air, and she was flying.
“Wall Lord, fall back! To arms!”
His personal bodyguard were all around him. Handpicked Drakes and Gnolls from their anti-Az’kerash training force, trying to attack the Golem from all sides. But it just barged through them, slashing.
Too damn fast for anyone under Level 30 to handle. Not without the Rubirel Guard’s armor. Ilvriss could barely keep up with it himself.
“[Reaching Slash]. [On Guard]—”
He deflected one knife-hand, then the Golem was on top of him. He was backpedalling as the others tried to get around the Golem, bring it down, target the legs—
Nothing. Ilvriss saw horrified [Miners] and members of his expedition forming a huge circle, staring at the Wall Lord fighting for his life. He stumbled—and someone yanked him back.
“[Pull to Safety]. [Bloody Stab]—shitshitshit, get it!”
“The hell is that? We can’t—”
“It’s a fucking Terland Golem!”
Women. Human women. For a moment, he thought it was Lyonette, but the woman just had ruby red hair like her, but a completely different, older face. The Sisters of Chell. They were around Ilvriss, but they were as unarmored as he was. They had daggers, shortswords at best.
Members of a Gang, but not—[Soldiers]. The ruby-haired woman turned to Ilvriss.
“Get back—it’s after you, idiot! Girls, get ar—”
The Golem slashed her head off. The blood hit Ilvriss in the face, and one of the Sisters faltered.
“Mirand—”
It ran her through, kicked another Sister, who crunched, and slashed across the others. Ilvriss saw them fall as fast as they’d come. He gazed up. The emerald eyes on the Minotaur’s head flashed, and it turned to look at him, but there was something on the neck. A glowing oval stone. Its real eyes were probably there.
Someone was watching him through the head. He felt it. Her. He could feel her malice, far as they were.
“I have come in peace.”
He told the Golem. The Golem breathed fire at him. Ilvriss recoiled, but a shield rose and blocked it.
“[Elemental Ward]! Ilvriss, fall back! Get behind us! Formation!”
Osthia Blackwing landed, slashing at the Golem’s neck. In response, it generated some kind of magical barrier, and when it blew her up, it grabbed her, then slammed her down.
He heard her bones break as the Golem turned. Again, to Ilvriss. The Wall Lord cast around. He saw the Rubirel Guard moving forwards, his guards trying to take up a formation. The Wall Lord looked at the Golem, at his sword, and he did something he’d have never dreamed of. Something his foe didn’t think he’d do.
He ran.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail burst into the command room where Alrric was holding a scrying orb. He was bleary, but the Last Defender of the Wall burned with his reclaimed classes. He took one look.
“Hunter-Killer Golem. The Rubirel Guard have to stop it. Or a full charge of the Erchirite Spears.”
He’d seen the Terlands unleash them. Seen fellow Wall Lords and Ladies gutted as they went through formations. Ilvriss—
“How is he alive?”
He stared as the scrying orb swung, then saw something…Zail’s mouth opened. Wall Lord Ilvriss was running.
Arms pumping, holding his sword, but just running through the camp, the Hunter-Killer in hot pursuit. People were trying to stop it, but the odd, loping style of the Golem meant it was bounding, having trouble locking onto him. It lunged, and he leapt right, through some tents, emerged out the other side—
The viewpoint jostled as whomever was holding the scrying orb tried to keep up. In that moment, someone spoke up in the emergency room.
“What is he doing? His bodyguard were right there! Drakes don’t run!”
It came from some junior officer, a [Major] by his stripes. Zail reached out and backhanded the Drake. He did it too hard; he’d forgotten he was as strong as he used to be. The [Major] went over, and the rest of the people in the room stared at Zail. He rasped.
“That’s Sserys’ line, you coal-headed hatchlings.”
“Indeed. I have orders. Get me in touch with whomever’s leading the forces. Now.”
Eschowar was there, taking command. Good. Zail just watched as his son ran. The Hunter-Killer…were they watching, those damn Terlands? They had to be. His claws were breaking the stone around the projection table.
The Hunter-Killer cornered Ilvriss in half a minute. One second he was vaulting, running, the next something slapped him down, and he fell on the ground. Rolled and nearly lost his tail. Zail turned his head.
“What was that? I didn’t see—”
Eschowar’s voice was quiet.
“Aura. Can anyone throw a Skill?”
 
——
 
Ulva Terland was panting from the effort, but she watched as the Wall Lord ate eight daggers. They stabbed into his stomach, and he screamed. At last—blood.
Pang. The Golem’s arm recoiled, and the Wall Lord threw himself left. Someone spoke in her ear.
“There goes his ring. Must have recharged. Damn. Does he have a potion?”
He was drinking a potion as he backed up. The Golem slashed at something attacking it—flashes of light were assailing it. [Mages]. The camp was mobilizing, but they’d lost the heavy Drakes in armor. Time to finish this then recall the Hunter-Killer. Ulva caught her breath, heart thudding in her chest as she snarled.
“Firebreath.”
She caught the Drake full on, and he writhed and fell onto his back, twisting and trying to put the flames out. They extinguished, and she saw his head rise, bloody, as he tried to mouth something at her.
“Stop—”
Then the vision of him rotated. Vanished—and Ulva jerked.
“What—what’s going—”
She was staring at the ground. A siren rang out.
“Concussive impact. What was—”
 
——
 
Xesci threw the Golem and her back out. She clutched at it as the Minotaur-form she wore cried out in agony. She was no [Warrior]! And the damn thing was getting back up.
“Xesci, get out—”
Ilvriss was badly burned. But the [Courtesan of Change] faced the Hunter-Killer, standing between him and it.
She was no hero. If it charged, she’d step aside. But…
Sisters are dead. Haple’s going to be unhappy. She spared one thought for the women she’d asked to protect Ilvriss. For them, and because she was the highest-level person here, and because she had a feeling, a certainty from her class, the Drake held her ground.
Her face was changing. Minotaur wouldn’t do much good. All she knew were throws and immobilization moves. No warrior; she’d die the moment it came at her. But something—
The Minotaur’s head was twisting towards her as the Golem righted itself with more effort; it wasn’t good at standing. Xesci saw spells hammering it, saw someone toss a rope that bounced off a glowing barrier. Her face, voice, everything morphed.
She was usually shy about it. What did Ilvriss see for a second as she glanced at him? A monstrosity like the one from the High Passes?
Or just…
A woman? He stared up at her, uncomprehending, and she spread her arms as the Hunter-Killer Golem raised a hand to erase the obstacle between it and its target.
Then it halted. It froze up, and those emerald eyes focused on a woman who stood there, her hair blowing green around her, a ponytail swishing in the night. Face illuminated by magic, stubborn and strong-jawed, not exactly short, but neither tall yet with that intensity of expression.
Will and faith in stone, like the Controller’s pendant that hung around her neck. A tattoo of her house on one bared arm, pride and compassion and, perhaps, even wisdom in her eyes.
Petria Terland, one of the [Twin Virtues of House Terland], stood there as she had been before her death, breathing in and out, eyes locked on the Golem’s face. Half a continent away, a woman froze.
 
——
 
“Petria?”
How? Ulva had stopped the Golem. She held it, ignoring the sirens as the Drakes attacked it from behind, staring.
“Ulva! Ulva, it’s a trick!”
“It looks just like her. It’s…”
Voices around her. She didn’t hear them. Her heart was thundering. She was shaking. Ulva gazed at her twin.
The face she had not forgotten, nor who had been out of her mind a single day in the twelve years since Petria had died. Only, this was Petria as she had been. Young, beautiful, when they had been in their primes.
The one in Ulva’s heart. Someone had taken it from her. She even had Petria’s voice.
“Don’t.”
That was it. The brief warning that she refused to elaborate on because it said everything. Ulva was still. Then she was shaking. Shaking with horror and rage and—
 
——
 
“Who are you? How dare you?”
The Golem bent forwards awkwardly, and the voice came from its mouth. Ilvriss hadn’t known it could speak. He felt the watcher’s wrath, horror, and the knife-hand came up—
Xesci flinched, but she was channeling Petria, and she refused to move. The hand didn’t swing down. The person on the other end couldn’t do it.
“Move.”
“In the name of House Terland, I shall not! Golems witness me!”
“Stop it. Stop it. You’re not her. I see you. I see your true face, you—you faceless mirror.”
She was using her aura from afar. Xesci wavered, but Petria’s face firmed.
“Kill me, then. Kill me, Sister, and damn the north! I am Terland, and I speak to my better half!”
This was madness. Ilvriss was forcing himself upright, gasping. This—Xesci was beyond anything he had dreamed of her. She’d told him he’d regret it if she channeled Periss or Erin, but—
She was pulling straight from Ulva. And the Matriarch of House Terland was shaking so bad the Golem was doing likewise.
“Stop it. Stop using her voice! You don’t know her!”
For a second, Xesci paused and moved sideways as the Golem tried to edge around her.
“I met her.”
“Liar. What are you? Move—move.”
Then came the shove with all the power of one of the Five Families. Hard and fast, and Petria-Xesci stumbled. Ilvriss reached out—pushed back. If the Golem got around Xesci, he was dead, but Ulva refused to strike that image of her sister.
“I said move!”
Xesci almost did, skidding sideways, but Ilvriss put out his hand.
“No.”
“Back away Ulva Terland.”
Someone joined him—thrusting back Ulva’s distant authority. Lyonette? He heard her, but he dared not take his eyes off the Golem. The Minotaur head was jerking towards him. It raised its fist, and someone fired a crossbow bolt that pinged off its head.
Nanette. He registered that with distant comprehension, his mind processing everything, seeing a way out. If the Rubirel Guard got there.
“Out of my way.”
Ulva Terland threw everything at them, and Xesci slid as Ilvriss and Lyonette fought around her. Aura versus aura. Dead gods, the Terland matriarch was strong! Xesci was windmilling her arms, Petria’s face a mask of concentration.
Like someone figuring out a horrible puzzle. Then she went calm and sighed. Coming to a dreadful conclusion. The screaming Ulva Terland was raging, throwing her very soul at the [Princess] and Wall Lord, when Petria Terland, caught between the aura war, glanced up.
“You made a mistake, Ulva. Just like when the Goblin King killed me. You made a mistake. Look at me.”
The Golem’s head swung towards her, and Petria was holding something. A belt dagger. There was a single moment as Ilvriss’ head turned to her. Ulva gasped.
“PETRIA—”
The blade slashed across Petria’s throat. A ribbon of red ran down her throat, and she dropped the knife. Lifted her hands and cupped the blood.
“Ulva. Stop.”
 
——
 
The Matriarch of House Terland froze. Utterly, heart halting in her chest. The war with the Wall Lord and [Princess], the sight of her beloved Petria.
The strain of commanding the Hunter-Killer—
Enmeshed in the House of Stone, hidden from all threats or danger, Ulva Terland had hid away.
Nothing to hurt or kill her. No blades to find her back. Nothing of her to wound.
Except her heart.
She waited, and it refused to beat. The Lords and Ladies of Stone were shouting, then they saw her slump.
“Lady Ulva?”
“Great Aunt? Great—”
 
——
 
Petria Terland drank a healing potion, gasped, then held a finger to the edge of her throat.
“Ancestors, that hurts. I’m glad you gave us more of these or I’d have never tried that.”
She walked away from Ilvriss, shaking her head. He jerked. The Golem had frozen, and the aura-storm halted.
“Xesci, what are you—?”
The Drake sat down.
“You’d better destroy that thing or tie it up. They might reactivate it. But I’m pretty sure we just gave Ulva Terland a heart attack. Not sure if she’s dead, but she’s gone.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood there as the Rubirel Guard charged the Golem with chains. Lyonette, standing with Ushar, Colfa, and Nanette, turned her head. Her face went white.
“What?”
 
——
 
Very, very calmly, Lord of Hearts Nouzcrat clapped his hands for silence. The [Healers] were surrounding Ulva, and the room was in panic. Tears on most faces.
Lord Xitegen via his Golem was still. And his Golem could weep, but he just watched. Lord Nouzcrat spoke.
“They’ve killed the Hunter-Killer.”
The viewpoint had gone dark. Every head turned to it, then to him, and Nouzcrat glanced around.
“The Matriarch of House Terland may be dead. Not a word leaves this room. Convene the family for an emergency. And—activate four Hunter-Killers. Kill that Drake.”
Then he turned and ran after Ulva.

10.66 (Pt. 1) (2026-06-07)

‘Ulva Terland is Dead.’
 
Hobus Macreid, esquire, had never known the horrors of his new class or job until today. Esquire meant ‘young nobleman’ or shield-bearer to a [Knight]. It was a term for someone who wasn’t really a [Lord]…too distant to hold any power in his house. A nobleman in title alone.
First Landing was the only place in Izril which still had them. These days, there were so few nobles that most ‘esquires’ became full [Lords]. But not Hobus. He was actually a sign of better times, in a sense.
His father had sat him down to explain the issue when Hobus had been teased about his class. It was down to…capacity. Just like how armies had limits on how many officer classes they were allowed, or a kingdom couldn’t have infinite [Barons], an aristocratic house could only support so many, well, nobles. If they were bigger or had more influence, or had just wanted to, Hobus would have been made [Lord], but it hadn’t gone down that way. Nor did Hobus really want the class.
He still had six siblings ahead of him in his family, and so he’d taken to other classes to make a living.
Such as…[Newspaper Editor]. A quite prestigious job, and he had joined News From the North, the First Landing version of the many newspapers. It had been fun being important, breaking stories only First Landing cared about. He’d gotten in touch with other newspaper organizations too, even had Wistram News Network reach out; his job was not to review the wording of stories, but to put together the best headlines for the next day’s press. Then a Golem, Terland-made, would print it out, fast as could be, with quill and ink.
Someone had offered to sell a ‘printing press’ to his company twice. First, Gnolls in the Great Plains, then Golaen of all places. He’d politely declined, and when his [Newspaper Manager], Robbel, had heard the offer, the other man had agreed it was pointless.
Why bother? A Golem could do it faster, cheaper, and more beautifully. That was House Terland for you. For a bit of advertising in each paper glorifying them, they’d sent over this magnificent Golem who resembled a four-armed Naga, a male one with spectacles built onto his blank, calm face as his hands blurred, printing the rest of the test-run of the next day’s paper.
Hobus stared at the Terland Golem now. Watching as it moved with speed and precision not even a person with Skills could match. He waited for…something.
Anything. A reaction, perhaps an acknowledgement that its master of masters, the matriarch of House Terland, was dead. Or…Hobus glanced down at the second paper being printed.
 
‘Ulva Terland Survives Assassination Attempt!’
 
A second paper slid into the tray next to the first. This one with a different front-page story for a different world. Hobus picked it up, careful not to touch the ink or the illustration of Ulva Terland still drying. He held it up, as if willing it to be tomorrow’s headline.
He didn’t know. But the best practice of newspapers was, apparently, this. If you knew a story was going to break and you didn’t know which way it would go, prepare for either.
He hadn’t come up with that; it had come from Rémi Canada, who Hobus’ newspaper had hired to consult. A very friendly, knowledgeable young man that made Hobus feel like his job was more than just earning fame and a bit of fortune. The news mattered. But oh, dead gods.
“If she’s dead, what happens next?”
Robbel was in the room with Hobus, and the young esquire jumped. He half-turned; Robbel was a former [Trader], not a man who’d ever made it big selling things, but who’d jumped on the newspaper business. He had ink on his white sleeves that were rolled up so he could haul bundles of newspaper around. He worked hard; they didn’t have a Golem for loading, so the staff of fourteen could work like Demons some days to get everything organized for the Runners to pick up. They’d send the newspapers off to the Guilds and whoever else had a subscription.
Hobus sometimes felt like he was the odd one out. He was the only noble here, and as such, he didn’t do much lifting. He decided what was important and navigated the political waters he understood; he knew what not to print and what might attract trouble. He could also soothe ruffled feathers when someone complained about the stories being about them.
All well and proper, as Hobus had been raised to understand it. He was above the common man, but Robbel was his boss, and sometimes it felt like the common man was still better friends with the staff than Hobus. They went out drinking, laughed and joked, and Hobus was the nobleman who was the snooty, important fellow you couldn’t joke with.
But today…today no one wanted Hobus’ job. Because the news was going to be…
“Hobus? If Ulva Terland’s dead, what happens?”
Hobus realized he hadn’t replied. He turned and saw a [Gossip Reporter] eying him. Two [Rumor Journalists], a [Prominent Columnist]—you got classes like these in high society. Everyone waited. A [Typo Finder] was checking over the newspaper, but not really doing her job. Hobus swallowed.
“If she’s dead…it’s war.”
“With the Drakes? The article House Terland sent in said—I mean, if you read it closely, they sent a Hunter-Killer at that Wall Lord.”
Hobus nodded; he’d read it too, and they’d had to translate it into an ‘unbiased’ account, or as close as you could. Rémi’s instructions, that. Otherwise, they might have just printed the Terland account. But the nobles’ firsthand testimony was in there…and Hobus had to explain.
“It doesn’t matter, though, Nass. If she’s dead, it’s war.”
“But if they were defending—”
“It’s war because she’s the head of House Terland. It doesn’t matter why. If she’s dead, the Five Families will declare war. If we’re…lucky, it’ll just be a fight at the Bloodfields.”
“Lucky.”
Robbel spoke, the gray seeming to stand up as he brushed at the spiky, short-cropped hair edged with a hint of blue. He massaged his jowls, glanced around. At the newspaper.
“How…how many people would we send, Hobus? Give it to me straight, lad. We’ve had tons of colonists go down to the New Lands.”
“…For Ulva Terland? My guess is they’d have every city send at least a thousand troops. The Five Families would insist on—if it was restrained, they’d probably send twenty thousand. Each.”
So an army of a hundred thousand—on the low end—would go down to the Bloodfields to fight the Drakes. Which meant the Drakes would have to match those numbers. Hobus went on.
“The real issue is they wouldn’t fall back like the regular, yearly battles. And that’s if House Terland didn’t push for more. It could be double that number. When the Drakes killed a member of the Wellfar Admiralty at sea, I was told we sent four hundred thousand down south. Less than five thousand came back. It…it was over a thousand years ago, but they said it caused a huge impact in the north. We killed at least that many Drakes, though.”
Dead silence. No one said a word, and Hobus clarified after a moment.
“It’s not something I think would happen. But she’s…House Terland. They have to do something.”
“I haven’t even met my idol, Drassi, yet. We can’t go to war.”
The [Gossip Reporter], Nass, or Nassilendra, whispered. A while ago, that would have sounded insane. Liking a Drake? Not wanting to go to war with them? But Hobus agreed. His household hadn’t sent troops to the Bloodfields since he’d been a kid, before the Second Antinium War. He’d seen the news, watched Sir Relz and Noass and all the antics in the south. If there was a reason to go to war, it was to support the Gnolls after the Meeting of Tribes. The New Lands were waiting. This wasn’t what they should be doing.
“It’s how it is.”
He mumbled, seeing their eyes on him. Accusatorily, as if it was his fault. Hobus sat with the two newspapers in hand. Robbel murmured.
“If she lives…”
“They still have to do something. We print this and the Five Families will all want to send reprisals.”
“Which means escalation. Drakes never back down from that kind of thing.”
Chirbe, one of the older [Journalists], muttered. Silence again. Hobus sat there. And he spoke.
“If we’re lucky, it’ll be the Five Families targeting this ‘Wall Lord Ilvriss’. But if they kill him…I think Salazsar might go to war.”
“Dead gods. But they wouldn’t do that if Ulva Terland lives, right? They’re not that st—”
Someone nudged Nass, but Hobus just laughed. He chuckled as he held the newspapers in his shaking hands and smeared the fine work the Golem did. Just for a second, he thought the printing Golem glanced up, and the impassive eyes flashed, annoyed at the young man for ruining the hard work. But Hobus just laughed until tears sprang to his eyes.
“Reasonable, the Five Families? Reasonable…they say the Reinharts are back. When I was a kid, my mother told me never to cross a Reinhart or they’d run you over by ‘accident’. I thought she was joking. Then I realized she had two scars on the back of her legs she never talked about. Right at the level a carriage’s bumpers are…”
He tried to explain to them, slicing a hand across his legs. They just stared at him, and he realized they thought of nobles like him. Pampered, arrogant, powerful enough, and monied, but just that. He stood there.
“They’re mad. That’s what real nobility is. I’m sane because I’m not important, but the Five Families are true nobles. They’re all mad. For Golems, for power, for their weird lives like the Veltras or Wellfars…”
He sat down, two newspapers with two futures in hand. And Hobus saw the same outcome as he waited for dawn. He wished the Lord of House Terland hadn’t sent in the story. Maybe if they didn’t publish this, the news might spread slower, the anger might not turn to inevitable consequence. But he was the news, and he had to publish this. Didn’t he?
It was wrong. Who could stop this? Hobus’ hands shook as he searched the black and white print for a way out. Someone stop this. Someone…
 
——
 
It was late at night, and Liska was yawning. She should have clocked out of work ages ago, but she’d been helping some new friends, and she’d traded a morning shift with Xinthe to cover her bases.
She was also on-duty because Lyonette was still away from the inn, and Liska, as the door-manager, should be there to make sure the [Princess] got back safe and sound. Mrsha was here, so Liska reckoned it couldn’t be that bad, even if the girl just kept complaining about how horrible the Cowpat Plains were.
I’m telling you, Liska, it was like someone dipped a rag in the outhouses and wedged it up my nose, then gave me a swirlie in a Poo Slime before I swam a mile in Pallass’ sewers.
“Yuck, Mrsha. But it wasn’t that bad.”
Was so.
“Was not. I know you’ve got a good nose even for a kid, but c’mon. It’s just cow dung. I’ve smelled it, so have you.”
Mrsha wrote furiously, shaking her head.
It was worse, Liska! I swear to cake, it was horrible! Just gross! I’ve never smelled anything like it.
“Well, okay, fine. Maybe it was bad, but it sounded sort of fun hanging out with that Wall Lord guy. Why didn’t you get nose plugs? Also, d’you think he’ll find what he’s searching for?”
Mrsha hesitated. She scrunched her face up, and Liska realized she was doing her Roots Mrsha thing. She waved her paws.
“I don’t want to know if it’s like super destiny stuff!”
I don’t know. I just know that half the time he doesn’t even get down there. So long as Mother’s there, I think it helps. But it depends on nothing bad h—
Liska held up a paw absently as Mrsha wrote. She adjusted the door dial, anticipating someone wanting to come in.
“Looks like someone’s coming from the entrance to Cowpat Hell. Let’s just see if it’s a messenger. Lyonette said she wouldn’t b—”
The door opened, and Liska had one second of warning. She grabbed Mrsha, dove off the sofa, then there was a shout. Lyonette du Marquin rode her custom bicycle into the portal room. She screamed. Liska screamed. Mrsha screamed—silently. Nanette screamed.
“Lyonette, we’re going to—”
Wham. Lyonette hit the sofa, went off the bike, and Ser Dalimont threw himself in the path of the [Princess] and caught her before she hit a wall. Nanette went flying, and Ushar grabbed her before she could headbutt an open-mouthed Liska and Mrsha. The rest of Lyonette’s companions slammed into the Portal Room, and there was shouting.
“Everyone inside! Everyone in—”
Nerul Gemscale, several members of the Calanferian staff, and Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle hurtled into the Portal Room. The Vampiress was on foot, but sweating; she slammed the door shut. Lyonette adjusted the dial. Liska and Mrsha peeked up.
“Wha—wha—Miss Lyonette, what are you—?”
“Everyone in the [Garden of Sanctuary]! I—I need my mother, and you need Salazsar, Nerul. Use the [World’s Eye Theatre] if you have to. Mrsha, garden!”
The Gnoll girl turned to Nerul as the [Diplomat] straightened. Sweat had run through his purple coat, and some of the gemstone buttons had torn loose.
“I have to use security protocols. I’m on the way.”
“Miss Lyonette, what’s going—”
Lyonette began running as Nanette got up. The young witch’s face was pale, and she spoke as the Calanferians ran like someone had set them on fire.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette might have just murdered Lady Ulva Terland. She was trying to assassinate Ilvriss with a Golem, but Xesci was there, and we think she gave Ulva Terland a heart attack.”
Dead silence. Liska’s mouth worked.
“Who’s that…?”
Mrsha had gone pale. She straightened, held up a card.
Okay, in all the projections I saw of the future, I never saw that. What happens next?
“Besides a hundred Hunter-Killer Golems coming to kill you, me, and everything in Liscor and Ilvriss’ dig site? Hopefully we de-escalate. Inn! Move!”
Lyonette charged forwards as her daughters and staff ran after her. She ran for a door, yanked it open—slammed into a wall, and Liska winced. The [Princess] held her nose as it began to bleed.
“What the—?”
“Miss Lyonette? Inn’s that way.”
Liska stared at the [Princess]. Lyonette turned around. She’d tried to throw open the [Door of Portals]. She blinked.
“Right. Follow me!”
Everyone ran after her. Liska wondered how you made that mistake. She sat back down, then had a thought.
“Wait, so if I detect a Golem on the other end of the door, I don’t let it in, right? What do I do if it tries to get in? Am I in danger?”
Ser Dalimont hesitated at the door. He turned.
“No. Don’t let it in. Just change the dial and sound the alarm. And yes. We’ll post security with you.”
Liska swallowed. Then she squared her shoulders.
“Right. The moment I see trouble, I’m turning off the door, peeing my pants, and running like a coward.”
She saluted him, and the Thronebearer glanced at Liska and nodded.
“We’re counting on you.”
He vanished, and Liska sat back down on her couch, rattled.
“Wait, no. You’re not supposed to say that. Don’t count on me.”
After a moment, she peered around.
“So who’s Ulva Terland again? Inkpaper? Can you bring me a book?”
 
——
 
If Ulva Terland was dead…
If Ulva had died, aggressor or not…
In moments like these, you didn’t need an Erin. You needed someone who had political influence, clout, supreme magic, and an understanding of the world to reverse the wheel of causality. You needed, in short, a Super Nerul.
He was doing his best, but Lyonette needed help. She needed—
“Calling Magnolia Reinhart. Calling Magnolia Reinhart, hello? Lovely Magnolia? Okay, Teriarch. Demsleth? …Taletevirion?”
No one was picking up in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. All her attempts to rouse the powerful people she knew? Absolutely failed. Because they were warded.
“Fucking Creler eggs in my salad. Someone help! Quarass! Quarass of Germina—”
Lyonette was swearing in terror as she tried to raise anyone for help. This was not usual inn-chaos. This was her fault, not Erin’s for once, and Lyonette had always thought she might make gaffes, but never commit a real Solstice Event like Erin always got into.
More egg on her face. Dead Ulva-egg. She had helped kill a Terland. It had been an accident! She’d just been there when Ilvriss had—but she’d thrown her aura at Ulva with him and—
This is so bad. I’m dead.
It was probably…three in the morning. Lyonette had rushed back when the incident had occurred; Ilvriss was strengthening his guard on the dig site. The mad-Drake hadn’t even wanted to start running south. He’d just said he’d try to negotiate, that they had to keep digging.
Lyonette might have screamed at him that when a Golem reached into his mouth and pulled his tail out, he’d not be so confident. The Terlands would never let this lie, but the damn idiot had said he couldn’t retreat in the night, not with so many people. Which—fair, but someone had to—
When the Quarass of Germina appeared, she had on pajamas made of silk with little daggers embroidered on the pale cotton and a nightcap on her head, complete with a little pointed tip, only instead of a piece of cotton on the end, there was an actual dagger.
It was both cute and highly disturbing. She glared at Lyonette.
“Lyonette du Marquin, that I have agreed to tutor you is not a sign of my infinite patience. Does this crisis merit my interrupted sleep, or e—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss may have given Ulva Terland a heart-attack while defending himself from a Hunter-Killer Golem. I helped.”
The Quarass paused. She opened her mouth, massaged her eyes, then, gratifyingly, focused. She didn’t ask ‘how’ or ‘why’—it was a sign she was the Quarass of Germina that she just sighed.
“What was the nature of your involvement in this?”
“I—I was throwing my aura because Ulva was controlling the Golem—it was a Hunter-Killer, you see, and—”
“I am aware. What did it look like?”
“I—uh—uh—”
It was Xinthe who took over, bowing and reporting in a clipped, precise tone of voice befitting a Calanferian spy.
“Minotaur head, magical steel, emerald eyes, knife-fingers, and odd, bounding legs, Your Majesty.”
“If it didn’t kill him, it was…one of their hybrid models. Four thousand years old, post Creler-wars. Not high-grade. Overconfident. She was controlling it personally. Overconfident. Her heart cannot be that weak, though. How else?”
“It was Xesci, um—”
Lyonette related a few more details, and the Quarass’ eyes sharpened. She held up a hand.
“Of course. Clever. I’ve slain a few enemies like that. Without even a sympathetic heartbreaker Skill? Level 50, then. Your involvement in the aura clash—I see.”
She tapped at her lips, and Lyonette waited, begging for a bail-out, a do-over. The Quarass thought, then nodded.
“I will contact House Terland and ascertain if my knowledge can aid in keeping Ulva Terland from dying.”
“But if her heart stopped—”
The Quarass shot Lyonette a withering glance.
“She rests upon a Throne of Health. House Terland is far more adept than your inn at preserving life. A [Stasis] spell would occur to them—or it should. If she is dead, tell your Wall Lord to flee or he dies. If she lives…they will still try to kill him. I doubt they shall blame you; you are a [Princess], and he is the Drake.”
The Quarass yawned as she waved for a servant. Lyonette’s stomach dropped.
“What can we do to stop that?”
The annoyed ruler of Germina shot her a look.
“I am a consultant, not your problem-solver. Ask the sock puppet. Perhaps he can magic a solution or at least send bodyguards capable of warding off multiple Hunter-Killer Golems. I shall try to save Ulva Terland. Goodnight.”
“But—”
“Goodnight. My advice, incidentally, pupil, is this: don’t send a damn Drake up north with no excuses for his presence!”
“But how should I—it was important and—”
The Quarass snapped as she accepted a glass of water.
“Marry him, take over the venture, obfuscate his reason for digging up a damned Walled City—anything but how the [Innkeeper] did it!”
She vanished, and Lyonette took a breath. Then another. Marry Ilvriss? The things the Quarass—just because she did everything in Germina’s name, it didn’t mean Lyonette was capable of it, for all she was a very progressive, worldly [Princess]. She shook her head.
“Let’s hope that helps. In the meantime—call Duke Rhisveri!”
Then she realized he was warded, and she glared.
“Dame Ushar, send a [Message] to our contacts in Ailendamus. Get me Rhisveri.”
She paced around frantically, waiting for her last great ally in the wings to come. As he had sworn he would. Plus, he owed her. She’d danced with him, and she and he…they were allies. Not just two people with gambling debts.
Best friends, really. She fondly thought of the time he had teleported her to his nation to have a plus one for a dance. Rhisveri, her chum, her obliging Wyrm! She put on her best smile to welcome her buddy. So he knew how valued he was.
She ended up waiting thirty-five minutes, the same pained smile on her face, until an apologetic Dame Chorisa informed her the Duke was delayed, but would be with her shortly. Lyonette’s face hurt.
 
——
 
In the [Garden of Sanctuary], Mrsha and Nanette were poking each other, waiting to see what went down.
If Ulva Terland’s dead, it’s bad, Nanette. How could you let this happen? You were supposed to keep Mom in check!
“I was! Those bastards sent the Hunter-Killer, Mrsha! Also, the Lischelles were super-rude at their cookout.”
No kidding? Rude Humans? I trusted you to be the responsible adult because you know those two weren’t going to be ones! I have half a mind to give Nerul a smack too!
The two nervous girls escalated into a slap-fight, then calmed. Nanette sat there, worried.
“Mrsha? Did your Roots-futures show you what happens here too?”
Not everything was in the futures I saw, Nanette.
Mrsha wore a pained expression on her face. She sat heavily, and Nanette leaned against her in the garden.
“So we’re in uncharted waters.”
Pretty much. Did Xesci really take out Ulva by looking like her dead twin sister?
“Yep.”
Hardcore.
“Can Rhisveri help? He is a super-important Wyrm, right?”
Mrsha hesitated. She sat there, head bowed, then scribbled on a card. Held it up.
I wish I could tell you he’s the best aside from Teriarch, Nanette. But neither one’s invincible. And something…around now takes Rhisveri out in most futures. I don’t know what, but—
Nanette turned, and Mrsha observed it all, fur blowing, a dreadfully analytical look on her face. For she had seen the same thing the present held.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus…
Was not well.
 
——
 
It had hit him fast and suddenly shortly after the banquet incident with the [Princess]. He hadn’t seen it coming.
He should have.
Avoidable, really. But the Wyrm had just thought…
No, hoped.
He’d just hoped he’d make it, you know? When he’d buried his mother, his real mother, he’d felt the hand of death on him. Just like when he’d seen so many little servants go, like Dioname. He’d sworn to bring them back with the power he’d killed his brother for. But he’d always thought—
Me, I’ll make it. I’ll be the one. I’ll be the Wyrm who goes the distance. Who lives as long as Dragonlords. He had his empire. He had his allies. He had time…in this waning world.
But no. It turned out this was it. They’d got him. She’d got him. He never saw it coming.
His allies didn’t know he was…incapacitated, of course. He’d sequestered himself in his chambers in the palace, pretended to be grumpy, indisposed. To his annoyance, no one, not even Eclizza, had detected anything wrong with him.
His stupid bodyguard, Chorisa and the others, kept watch. No one noticed his curt [Messages] revealed the suffering Wyrm within. No one came by to say hello. It was like…they didn’t notice. As if he’d put himself up as the strongest, most fearsome being and they’d accepted him at his word.
Rhisveri was too prideful to ask for help, anyways. He lay, curled up on himself, a snake meant to devour the world, all tangled together. Sweating greenish fluids that ran like muck on the beautiful floor no matter how much he cleaned it. Clenching his teeth. Fighting his weakness.
“Ryoka Griffin. In the end, you’ve killed me. Thief. Thief of miracles. Thief of mothers. Thief of lives.”
He bore her…less ill will since it wasn’t her fault. She wasn’t aware of what she’d done. She really was the Windy Girl, the carrier of plagues, the unwitting dupe bearing poisoned knives and hurling them into well-meaning tyrant’s bosoms.
He’d have to tell her that. Write it in his will. ‘I forgive you for killing me, Ryoka Griffin’, so when the Kingdom of Glass and Glory fell to pieces without its leader, when it all came crashing down, they knew who not to blame.
…He was just being petty. The Wyrm lay there, suffering. Using his willpower as he could, fighting his malady until someone called his name.
“Duke. Duke—Princess Lyonette is requesting your presence. It is urgent, Duke.”
“Go ‘way.”
“Duke Rhisveri. Er, Great Wyrm!”
Chorisa walked forwards hesitantly, eying the huge mass of Wyrm coiled inwards on one section of his chambers. He seemed…off. Steam was rising from his green scales, and there was green liquid oozing onto the ground. She glanced at the other Thirsting Veil [Knights] in genuine concern.
But they didn’t know what to do, so Chorisa tried again.
“Duke, she claims she’s in danger.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus uncurled. Just a bit. He opened his eyes he’d been squeezing shut.
“Again?”
Of course she was. With supreme effort, he conjured his alter-ego, the Human Duke. He had to…there were children at that inn. Wyrmesse oblige and all that. He made the Duke appear, and Eclizza jumped, then scowled.
“Duke, your clothing!”
Duke Rhisveri looked…about as bad as the Wyrm felt. His eyes were bloodshot, and he appeared distinctly off. He was also naked. He’d forgotten the clothing.
“Whuzzat? Damn clothing. How do you filthy apes deal with it? Let me just—”
He pointed a finger at himself and zapped on some clothing. It constricted against his body, on backwards, and he yelped. Swivelled around firing clothing spells—Chorisa ducked, brought up a shield—
A pair of underpants appeared on the top of her crescent shield, and she snapped.
“Duke!”
She thought he was just being silly. Chorisa strode over, grabbed his arms as he got the pants on around the right way, yelled, and let go.
Her enchanted gauntlets had just turned bright red. With heat. The enchantments saved Chorisa from literally frying her own hand, but she put a hand out and backed away.
“Duke, you’re burning up! Are you sick?”
Then the bodyguards realized he was ill and approached. Duke Rhisveri was sweating so hard it looked like it was raining on him. The skin of his magical body had long since passed any temperature a living body would be able to maintain.
“Just a bit ill. Don’t worry. It’s not contagious. But you should, uh, get out of here. Right now. Don’t come in. I’ll contact Lyonette. Just you—bleg.”
He turned, tried to cast a [Gateway] spell to project himself into The Wandering Inn, and fell flat on his face. The Thirsting Veil Knights eyed him as they backed up.
“How dangerous is it, Duke?”
“For you? Potentially fatal. Out. Out. Tell…tell the others I’m under the weather. And, uh, that Lyonette should send her Skill-thing to me.”
He was lying about the fatal part, but it got the [Knights] out of his scales. The worst that would happen was—no, he was more than that. More than…he lay there, trying to inchworm his way vertical, until someone finally appeared in front of him.
“Thank goodness, Duke Rhisv—what are you doing?”
There was something bracing about Lyonette’s annoyed tone, even worried. Rhisveri rolled over.
“Oh it’s you. Don’t worry, I’m just figuring out how to stand. I can’t figure out how you bipeds do it.”
That flummoxed her enough that she didn’t notice the tone of his voice. He’d managed to lower his fake body’s temperature and adopt a posture of superiority, crossing one leg as he lay flat on his back. She stared at him and clearly decided she didn’t have time to deal with whatever this was.
“Rhisveri, I have an—emergency. You see, there was an incident with Ilvriss. You know Ilvriss?”
Rhisveri had trouble thinking, which meant he was probably still smarter than she was, so it took him only a moment to recollect what this was about.
“Wall Lord? Purple scales? Salazsar? Digging for definitely a Walled City in the north?”
He had the reward of seeing her stiffen and snorted.
“It’s beyond banal figuring out your people’s schemes. I recall you helped the fellow out. Can’t you go one week without incident?”
“It’s been more than a week!”
She defended herself, blushing, and he conjured a calendar, stared at it, and put his head back down.
“…So it has. Well done. [Fawning Applause].”
He conjured clapping and cheering as she spoke over him.
“This is no laughing matter, Duke. We were attacked by a Hunter-Killer Golem. The Terlands wanted Ilvriss dead. I helped defend him, and we…mayhavekilledUlvaTerland.”
Sick as he was, struggling as he was, even the Wyrm of Ailendamus had to take a second to process that one. He covered his face with one hand, and Lyonette had to explain.
When she was done, he just lay there, and his mind, adapted to the politics of mortal realms, understood just how much trouble she’d landed herself in.
This is not going to go well. I might have to intercede militarily, but bringing a force to Izril is no easy matter. It’d be war if I sent an army and—
The Wyrm cracked open both his eyes and spoke.
“Princess Lyonette du Marquin. One question.”
“Rhisveri, I really need your help, and I am calling on my favors to you. No jokes, no insults, please?”
“Perish the thought.”
He actually sat up slightly on the floor as she gave him a stressed gaze. The Wyrm cleared his throat, and she waited.
“Lyonette. In this incident with a Hunter-Killer Golem, from House Terland, who has the best Golem-assassins in the world, where a Wall Lord’s life was in imminent jeopardy…I wish to have the details accurate, so is this correct?”
“Yes? What’s the question, Rhisveri?”
He eyed her, noting her dishevelled red hair, her travel dress stained with dirt and sweat from the road, and he bet she smelled like it too. Delicious sweat and anxiety and—Rhisveri blinked, slapped his real body’s face with his tail, and spoke. Focus on what mattered.
“Lyonette. In this situation, and in the north where you were aware of hostile Humans, I am sure a good mother and [Princess] like yourself wouldn’t have had a child like, oh, say, Nanette and Mrsha anywhere within a mile of the danger, correct? You, naturally, didn’t bring them, or you had them well behind the danger zone with a full escort of bodyguards. Yes?”
Lyonette opened her mouth, then closed it. She hesitated, coughed, and glanced past Duke Rhisveri at the curled up Wyrm.
“Er—Rhisveri, Ulva Terland might be dying now! This is not the time for—Colfa and Ushar were in front of Nanette, and Mrsha was back at the—”
He began screaming at her, forgetting even his ailments for a moment.
“Lyonette. LYONETTE. You cannot keep doing this. Are you a mother or some kind of reckless, child-hating maniac trying to turn them into child soldiers or caskets?”
“Rhisveri, how dare—”
“No! No, shut up! I’m a Wyrm, and I’m more conscientious of child-mortality than you are! Lyonette, this is utterly unacceptable. STOP BRINGING CHILDREN INTO DANGER AREAS. I WILL SIC THE AGELUM ON YOU AND HAVE THEM TAKE CUSTODY OF THE CHILDREN. WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU?”
The throne room shook with his voice, and the [Princess] clapped her hands to her ears, face bright red. The doors opened, and Dame Chorisa and the others stared at the Wyrm upbraiding the [Princess]. She was trying to get a word in edgewise.
“I—we didn’t know it would be dangerous, and we had to help—”
He just stared at her. After a few moments, Lyonette closed her mouth, then nodded.
“…It was wrong to expose Nanette to danger. You’re…you’re right, Rhisveri. Dead gods, you’re right.”
She appeared vaguely concussed by the idea. Frankly, so was he. When Rhisveri, the Wyrm of Ailendamus, was the most conscientious person about child-safety in a room, something had gone terribly wrong.
He cleared his throat after a moment.
“Ahem. Well, let’s put that aside for the moment. I see the problem. If the Quarass is reaching out…I’ll do likewise, not that we have many contacts in House Terland. If it’s escalation, get that Drake to run or he’s dead, no matter what I send. I’ll try to help.”
She nodded, relieved, and he began marshalling what he had. He’d have to ask House Shoel about healing or the Agelum…damn, this would be tricky with the Golem-lovers. She turned.
“I have to call my mother. Thank you, Rhisveri. Anything you can do…are you well?”
She glanced back at him. The Wyrm blinked with both his bodies.
“Me? Why would I be anything less than stellar?”
Lyonette eyed him.
“You’ve been lying on your back the entire time we’ve been talking, and your real body is, um, curled up and leaking green.”
She pointed, and the door opened. Dame Chorisa and the definitely-eavesdropping Thirsting Veil Knights glanced at Rhisveri’s real body as if just putting together that this was not normal for any species. One began running, and Rhisveri just lay there.
She noticed. I love you. He exhaled gustily.
“Just a natural biological phenomenon. It will pass. Don’t presume you understand Wyrms, Miss Marquin. Don’t you have an international incident to head off?”
She jumped.
“I do—contact me when you have anything, Rhisveri! Will you be at the inn?”
“I may be slightly indisposed, but I shall attempt to be.”
He was truthful there. She nodded and vanished, and the Wyrm lay there. She’d noticed he wasn’t well.
Wow.
He wasn’t sure if the bar was high or low given that. But the Wyrm…he groaned as he tried to focus, but his willpower was being sapped. He’d thought he’d had a handle on it, but…
“Damn Ryoka Griffin. Damn you. And whomever that is. Who was it again?”
Oh, right. Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui. A female Wyrm, a Great Wyrm from the lands of the fae, apparently. Someone who had seemingly wormed—heh—her way into the gathering of the fae at the Summer Solstice last year and, in doing so, made contact with the Wind Runner, whom she had known would run into Rhisveri in the future.
Or just guessed. Laid her plans well in anticipation that the immortalphiliac Wind Runner would meet some Wyrm eventually. Was it genius or just good intuition? Either way, applaud the female Wyrm’s intellect.
Smart as I am, almost. A survivor from another world with biology like mine, or Wyrms are just some kind of constant in even multiverse realities. That’s rather flattering. He could almost imagine her. Vast as he was, cunning, mighty in both magic and fang, and probably…sinuous.
Like, super sinuous, able to triple-curl on herself despite being hundreds of feet long, and he wondered how she looked in person. He should have grabbed a memory from Ryoka’s head, but of course, the Wind Runner wouldn’t have smelled or tasted her presence fully. Was Sikeri poisonous? She had to be. He wanted to lick her scales clean with his tongue, piece by—
Another shudder passed through the Great Wyrm of Ailendamus, and as he lay there for a second, despite the heat in his body, he was cold. Because the intellectual part of him saw it.
Here it is.
Death.
The great poison that would end Duke Rhisveri, the blade the Wind Runner had brought was no Relic of old, no spell or sword of the future. It was just…a female Wyrm’s musk, which would run out…in three decades. Which, once scented, was like a poison of the mind and body.
It had put Rhisveri into…mating season.
‘Heat’ was the wrong word and referred to other mammalian instincts. It was also derogatory, if, sadly, accurate. Rhisveri was experiencing, for the first time in thousands of years, a base, carnal attraction to another member of his species.
He had never met another Wyrm who was female that wasn’t also born of his mother. Let alone a fully-grown one. Rhisveri had studied his own species’ biology. He knew everything, such as the fact that male Wyrms died after mating with a female.
Highly objectionable, but a biological phenomenon that meant that female Wyrms could sire broods of literal millions if two Great Wyrms mated. The older and more powerful the Wyrm, the more numerous and powerful the offspring.
But his kind was dead, and so he’d actually considered never having to die to mate one of the few benefits of being utterly, soul-crushingly alone in this world absent of his kind, with no family but the ones he had found and made. He did not want to die, you see.
The problem was…well, other worlds, eh? Rhisveri had thought when he’d first detected Sikeri’s pheromones that he could master it. He’d had some…attraction…but he’d used his great willpower to suppress the urges, thinking that was that. Any male Wyrm who didn’t resist was just some sucker who didn’t understand the catch.
…Now Rhisveri got it. The allure of a female Wyrm was biological, in his very cells. And it didn’t relent over time.
It got worse. He was literally steaming with a desire to throw himself into her coils and die in one final bang. Which really, really sucked because…his intellectual mind knew it was his end.
But dead gods damnit, I want to know what that’s like! Ten thousand years of isolation and the first she-Wyrm who’s not my sisters shows up and I have to die so she gets to lay a brood? Not happening! But I wish I knew…
There was a joke in this world that if you went thirty years without having sex you were accorded a [Wizard] class, which real [Wizards] really resented as jokes went. Plus, it wasn’t even accurate, because to Rhisveri’s understanding, Mages of Wistram were highly promiscuous.
But what did you get if you were over 11,000 years old and had never, you know…?
It wasn’t like he was insecure. He was a Great Wyrm! He could literally roll over and crush an army. It was just that Rhisveri had heard it was great. Wonderful. Was he not allowed to want to know? Was he not…
“Can I just know without dying for it?”
The Wyrm muttered. He lay there as Chorisa ran back in with Dame Paterghost, Sophridel, and one of the Merfolk. Whatever objections they might have had to the usually taciturn Wyrm were silenced in a moment.
“Rhisveri, we are calling for Agelum and every member who knows healing. Just hold—hold on.”
Even haughty Paterghost sounded unnerved. Rhisveri waved both his bodies’ appendages at them.
“Don’t worry, I’m just…under the weather. Plenty to do. What? What are you staring at me for?”
It was only when they glanced at each other that he produced a mirror. Then he groaned.
“Oh, come on.”
His normally luxurious, green scales with a hint of white, like the deadliest viper in the world? The redolent scales of armor beyond Adamantium’s toughness, the green-and-purple fins that spoke to the poison to slay a nest of vipers with a single drop?
Gone. Rhisveri Zessoprical’s scales were now a bright, rose-red in color. And glowing.
…He decided to send Lyonette a message saying he might be a bit indisposed on this particular problem of hers. Few things could take the Wyrm of Ailendamus out, but as Mrsha had observed across the many worlds—he might have a problem. And the cure was way worse than the disease.
 
——
 
“Did the [Healer] say whether or not she’s…dead?”
“Not yet. Hearts of stone—no one knows for certain. The family’s flooding back into the mansion. Someone told them.”
“Those idiots—who? I saw Lady Irs and her entire family riding in on Golems. It’s a madhouse out there.”
“There’s more faces in the courtyard than the annual gathering. It’s like a festival.”
“Or a funeral. The last time the mansion was this full was when Petria died.”
“…There’s another person contacting us. Not just the Quarass of Germina. Some Duke in Ailendamus. He wants to help.”
“Aren’t we at war with them? Or we were—how did he find out?”
“Who knows? Someone leaking information? Detection Skills? The Drakes told everyone?”
Silence, then, a longer one, and the conversation had already been full of pregnant pauses. But the conclusion might be stillborn. At last, the two Lords of Stone, senior members of House Terland, turned to regard their peers who sat in the inner sanctum and the empty high seat.
“If Ulva dies, is it war?”
“I…we have to do something. We elect a new leader, I suppose. Dead gods. Golems speak truth to mercy, who?”
“Nouzcrat’s the most senior. By rights—”
“Nouzcrat’s no leader. He’s no Petria or Aunt Ulva.”
“No one’s like the Twin Virtues. No one, Madrinal. The old days are gone. Maviola El has burnt her last. We lost Fulviolo, Gresaria, Linter and Inawi Veltras—Lord Hibrec Wellfar, you remember him?”
“Stones, that takes me back. They used to be tall as giants, even when I sat on a Golem’s shoulders. You remember how Hibrec would sail into harbor, run his ship onto the streets, and just stride off of it onto a rooftop? The old Harbormistress used to give him so much grief, but all the Five Families would be on his ship and come down like heroes. What happened to us?”
“The Sacrifice of Roses, the King of Destruction—the Antinium Wars? Take your pick. How d’you live up to them, anyways?”
“…Maviola El might still be alive. No one saw her die, and I’d expect a crater of everburning flames to mark her death.”
“She’s dead, Madrinal. She’s dead, and we’re alone. So, Nouzcrat or not?”
“He’s too cautious. We need the highest levels.”
“That would be Xitegen, then, but he’s young.”
“He’s pushing Level 40 at least. Who else can claim that among the Lords of Stone?”
“He’s a radical—”
“He kicked the Goblin King.”
“I still don’t think it was—”
“Who else?”
Another, longer pause, and then a [Lady] joined the duo and it became a trio.
“Are you talking about who to elect? For shame! Great Aunt Ulva’s not even dead and—”
“We have to do something, Minlera. We thought Xitegen?”
“Enough of who’s next! What about the Drakes? Do we call for an army in the morning? Muster a levy and just attack them?”
“Now? We don’t have the troops, Minlera.”
“What do you mean? You saw what they did to Great Aunt Ulva!.”
“Yes…and have you taken a look around Izril? Between the New Lands and the winter, it’s been damn hard. If we levy the cities now—”
“You want to do nothing, Izin?”
“I didn’t say that. I’m just telling you that this is not the time. I’d rather send twenty Golems south. Hunter-Killers, one way mission. Golem Hearts armed to detonate. Three per Walled City and two for other cities. Hit every Wall Lord and notable.”
“We’ll never get them back.”
“They killed Ulva. We have to do something.”
“She’s not dead yet!”
A fourth and fifth voice.
“If she dies, I will vote to unleash a Golem from the innermost vaults. She deserves nothing less. Wipe out all the Drakes digging there, then hit Salazsar.”
“Nouzcrat…they won’t stop at that.”
“So? The Drakes have lost more than we have. With the tribes against them, what are they going to do? I heard they lost a [General] and their Grand Strategist at the Winter Solstice.”
“Was that all real? I saw the scrying orb. I read the reports. But the casualties were low.”
“Low? We lost nearly thirty Golems and—!”
“And it was a hundred thousand Draugr, Minlera. It should have been like Pallass’ 2nd Army in the High Passes. It wasn’t. Oh, people died. I was ordering from Vaunt and they told me some hero of the city died. But it didn’t feel like a regular war.”
“Strange times. These are such strange times. Who could ride an army at that many monsters and not lose ten times the number of soldiers? That’s how many troops you need to kill a Draugr on a good day.”
“Maviola El could, that’s who. She and Fulviolo set Salazsar’s armies to flight with three thousand men. Remember that? You know who could do that? The Twin Virtues conducting the hearts of Golems.”
“Is she going to make it? Here. My handkerchief. Mind your tears. The family’s going to need someone to tell them what’s going on…”
“We should prepare a statement. So what do we send? Armies? Golems? What happens to House Terland when she’s gone? She’s the last of the old families.”
“…Hearts of stone, beat for the last of the [Ladies] of Terland. Listen, o’ carven stone, for the voice to awaken your dignity. With each articulated step…”
“…walk with us, this path designed ‘twixt flesh and stone. Till the day you guide us…”
“…Our long dance waiting for our partners to laugh and sing. Awaken, hearts of stone. Your [Lady] is passing.”
They whispered the old words, and it felt like they heard them anew now. Shivering men and women, voices falling to silence, and the inner sanctum of House Terland going still as statues. Eventually, someone murmured.
“We should be there. Let’s go.”
 
——
 
…So as great powers were unable to help, or reaching out, the fate of many things rested on the life of a woman who lay on a healing dais, heart being manually activated by a Golem projecting a magical hand over her chest.
Not quite dead.
Not alive.
Ulva Terland lay, caught in the last moment of her life. Seeing it replay over and over again. Petria’s face, a mask of betrayal as she cupped red blood in her hands.
All the guilt of her life reflected onto Ulva as her heart stopped. And she…
She could not stop seeing Petria’s face, even as she told herself it was a lie. It was true enough, and the Drake who had taken Petria’s face had read Ulva’s heart. Her guilt. She had stabbed the Matriarch of House Terland with a blade that cleaved across time and space.
Again, Ulva saw Petria staring at her. Again, her heart stopped. And she found her life replaying itself.
First waking up and peering over to see an identical face staring at hers. Thinking nothing of it for years until she realized that face wasn’t her reflection in the mirror, but another being. So similar, they.
Growing up, running around with Golems, the only ones who could keep up, wild, speaking the language only they knew because they’d made it up, best friends with—
[Twin Virtues], they called them. Petria and Ulva, in their teens, each one with a favorite Golem, fighting with the other ‘greats’ of the Five Families. Maviola El and Gresaria Wellfar, battling in the news, the established legends while Petria and Ulva were the prodigies, bickering, arguing over their future, but never fighting. How could you fight with your own heart?
—Older and trying to be the same as Petria, who was more adventurous, more inclined to being the leader. Realizing they weren’t the identical twins anymore, but different, ever-so-subtly. Crying until Petria took her hands.
“You be the shield, I’ll be the sword, deal?”
Hugging her other half and agreeing. [Twin Virtues of House Terland: Fortitude of the Unwavering]. That was Petria. And Ulva—
[Twin Virtues of House Terland: Prudence of the Heart].
Heart.
Maybe that was when it had all been laid in place. Long ago—
 
Petria’s throat slashed as the blood ran. A [Princess]’ and Wall Lord’s auras clashing with her ailing heart—
Replay her life.
 
Flirting with the same [Lord] that Petria had, because she wanted to share the same thing her sister did. Arguing about the way Petria pushed ahead and Ulva sometimes…didn’t understand. They were supposed to be twins.
Trouble in Izril. Antinium to the south, and Petria listening to a young Magnolia Reinhart demanding the support of the Five Families. Standing up with Petria to send Golems with the might of the Five Families.
Then…the Goblin King emerging in Baleros. Dreams of peace with them dying in flames. Petria Terland’s face as she announced that House Terland would fight him upon their shores. Arguing with her sister.
Battle—and falling behind. Shouting for Petria as Golems died, Golem-Hearts igniting as Goblins slew them, powerful beyond belief. Turning her head and feeling her heart plucked away. Petria’s head, held in a bloody grasp as the crimson eyes swung to her. A scream that would never end.
 
…Twelve years. The last twelve years of her life had been the hardest, emptiest, of them all. They said, now, she was the last of the greats. Old Linter Veltras was dead. The old Wellfars were passed. Maviola El was gone. Magnolia Reinhart had upstaged the old guard.
They said Ulva Terland was the last of the Five Families from the old days. They treated her like she mattered. But the last twelve years had been just despair for Ulva Terland. Days and nights of terror, waking to see Petria dead and knowing half her heart was sundered. Keeping House Terland going because someone had to.
Mourning how few remained. Watching the world change once more and being unable to find joy in it. Seeing Goblins on the news and hating them. Hating and hating…until she felt the Goblin King come again, so soon.
And cowering in her House of Stone as a braver son went to fight him. Xitegen. Xitegen, whose family had starved. Just a boy. Just a boy…now a man.
“Dead gods. What a pathetic life it became.”
Ulva Terland sat and watched her life flash by. She didn’t appear her age; mid-sixties, older than she should have been, decrepit and worn from fear. Not even that old, really. But aged with grief.
She looked younger. A hint of green in her hair, a tunic sewn by Golem-hands blowing in the wind, a younger [Lady]’s dress adjusted for riding and Golem-work. Festooned with pockets for little tools to alter a Golem with. A generous belt on her hips, a [Golem Artificer]’s friend with a multitool to open Golems up.
She hadn’t looked like that for ages. A tinkerer. An experimenter, willing to change a Golem to see if it improved them. She’d studied in Illivere, in Wistram; she was young and proud. But shy. She’d throw on a dress and hide if suitors came to call. Because she needed her other half, the brave one.
Petria Terland liked men’s clothing. Even, annoyingly, suits. She had one on now, in Terland grey, a flower made of crystal pinned to her chest. She didn’t wear it often when they needed to be ‘official’, but she stood with that oddness that separated the two. Something…Ulva hadn’t been able to read as they hit their mid-forties. A change between them.
But it was still her. Her hair was longer, and she smiled with a wan joy. Ulva turned, peering up from the reflection of her life, and her eyes filled with tears.
“Petria.”
It was just like Ulva’s daily dreams—well, nightmares. Petria didn’t seize her throat and begin to drown her in the blood of Terlands, though. So it was a gracious dream for a dying old woman. Instead, her sister sat. And she cocked her head, staring at the memories flashing before Ulva’s eyes.
“Pathetic, you said? It seems a fine life, Ulva. If too sad at the end. You didn’t do aught when I died. Just hid away.”
That stung. But as if they were both alive, Ulva averted her eyes. Mumbled when no one else in this world had ever made her mumble since Petria’s death.
“I…I just didn’t know what to do. I kept House Terland running, didn’t I?”
“You ran it like a Golem. Unceasing, unchanging. That’s what you always hated about them, and so did I. That’s not you, Ulva. Twelve years is a long time to grieve.”
“Shouldn’t I?”
Petria smiled as she brushed her hair back. She sat with Ulva in what felt like a field of stars, overlooking Izril itself.
“No. I’m glad you did. But I just wish you’d been happier.”
“I wish you hadn’t died.”
“Well…he was faster than I thought.”
That was it? Ulva half-turned her head and nearly snarled at this illusion of her sister. Then she realized this was some dream as she died, and she let the illusion have it.
“That’s all you have to say? He’s ‘faster than you thought’? You were always overconfident! Always thought you could best anyone! Well, you finally ran into him, and unlike Maviola El or Killbes Wellfar, the Goblin King had no mercy to give! You killed yourself, Terlands, and me!”
Petria’s head bowed. She fiddled with her collar, just like the real Petria, and Ulva’s heart hurt because if this was a memory, it was truer than the Drake. Dead gods—and Petria’s next words were ones Ulva had never heard nor dreamed of. But they were Petria’s.
“I did do that. I’m so sorry, Ulva. I thought I could do it. I really did. And I left you, and look. Look at what I did to you and Terland and Izril.”
Tears were falling from her eyes now. She was faster to weep, faster to anger. Ulva averted her gaze.
“It’s over now. I’ll see you soon. There shall be war with the Drakes over this.”
She didn’t feel…good about it. It would be a pointless, bloody war. Who would they appoint to head the family? She had recommendations in place, but she would have switched them to Xitegen if she’d thought to amend her will. He was what they needed. Highest-levelled. Dead gods, they’d lost so many people. And the rest were shattered, even if they’d counter-levelled back then. Traumatized by the Goblin King.
Petria seemed to agree. She shook her head.
“This is not what the world needs. Not what Terlands need. There are greater foes, Ulva. I…I heard you didn’t go to the Winter Solstice. You let that boy go. Xitegen? I barely recall him. Wasn’t he some little lad? What about his parents?”
“Dead. All starved. His home fortress starved almost to the last person. They all fed him to keep him alive. One half-dead boy sitting on his keep’s battlements when I finally broke the siege. Don’t you remember?”
Ulva blinked tears out of her eyes, remembering his staring eyes as she bent to pick him up, weeping that she had been too slow, too weak. But Petria…just gazed at her sister.
“No. I wasn’t there. Ulva…do you think you’re dreaming?”
“I know I’m dying. What else could I be?”
Petria just nodded at that.
“You are. But Ulva…you’re not dreaming me. Where do you think you are?”
Ulva Terland stared at her sister. Then she turned her head. And the sky they sat in, over Izril, became something else. She felt herself floating high over the land she had lived in, and when she peeked up—she saw souls falling.
Like a rain of stars.
A lost man drifting downwards, weeping and clutching the infected arm that had been his death.
A trio, a married man and wife, young, and an older brother, explorers to the New Lands, still waving at a Gnoll who had saved them. Falling downwards, holding each other.
Naught but a babe ceasing its final wails and opening its eyes as a peace took it from the brief, painful world it had known.
An old man catching a child in his arms and carrying the baby downwards. Eyes opening wider, wider—
Ghosts. Not shedding their memories, their final experiences, but rather, radiating them outwards. They did not lose the memories; they were falling stars glowing with the light of their very souls. Some had been falling for months. Processing their own lives before they were ready to continue; others dropped faster, having fewer regrets, not caring to look back.
Life flashing before your eyes. It made Ulva’s own eyes sting to see.
Souls falling past her, towards…what? A copy of the world she had known? No. Ulva’s head rose, and she saw something else. There lay the Izril she had known. And beyond…
Her eyes stung. For the first time, Ulva glanced away from her sister, from the memories of her life streaming before her, and at something beyond which her mortal heart had no words for. She shaded her eyes.
“Petria. What’s that?”
Her sister turned and smiled.
“Something new. Something the woman who called herself ‘Goddess of Death’ finally remembered to grant the dead. The true promise her kind holds, which is why they are loved. What do you see, Ulva? I see gleaming gears, a land built of constructs and metal I cannot fathom. And beyond that, something not even Dragons dare comprehend. It gleams brighter than any Golem’s Heart.”
Ulva kept wiping her eyes.
“I don’t…am I dead then?”
“Yes. And no. You’re where we end up now. A new place. A better one than the old; believe me. There, we were just in holding. Prisoners and at the mercy of six gods. Now, we are free. Not all of us, but the Goddess of Death has met her end. I was one of the ones she ate. When I was freed, I waited here. For you.”
Ulva didn’t understand what any of that meant. She just reached out with both her arms.
“Then we’re together at last, Petria. And a far better ending it is! Let’s go.”
She went to embrace her twin and lost heart, and Petria hugged her. Then let go and pushed Ulva back.
“No. Not yet, Ulva.”
The gentle rejection made Ulva’s ghost stumble backwards. She tried to reach again. Crying out.
“Petria! We’ve just met and—”
Petria floated back. She spread her arms. Smiling with all the pride of the Terlands. And regrets.
“I’m dead, Ulva! I fought. In two lives. Once, I died against the Goblin King. The second time, I fought for the dignity of the dead. I lost, both times. But I stood with every Terland to ever exist. We damned the Seamwalkers and defied Death herself to the last. I am so proud of them and you. But I will not take you with me. Not yet. You’re not done. Are you?”
She pointed down at the streaming memories below Ulva, and the woman realized she wasn’t falling. She alone was not joining the rain of souls entering the lands of the dead. She hovered, borne aloft by the memories of a lifetime. And she realized, like a strange gravity, they were trying to drag her back.
To that unkind world where voices echoed.
 
“—not let her die! In the name of House Terland—!”
“—administer another 50 fraerls of Cepile Toxin. Now. And that potion, 300 fraerls. Do not argue with me, [Healer]. [Obey My Will].”
“—aunt? Great Aunt?”
 
They were calling for her. But Ulva did not want to live. She was weeping, reaching out.
“Petria? Petria, I am so tired. I have nothing to do here. I don’t love Terland enough. Not if this is what is after. Wait for me, I’ll join you. Even if—”
Petria slapped her hand down. And now she was stern, lecturing, pacing.
“Ulva, you always were the smarter one. You always led. And nothing to do? In this age? I tell you, there are six—possibly five foes now—that deserve to die! House Terland needs you! And if I cannot be there, you cannot follow me. Do it and I will scorn you, Sister. You’re needed.”
“But—”
Ulva was gasping. She felt herself dissolving, and Petria’s face twisted. She came forwards and held Ulva’s hands, and they were aging, now. But Petria stopped…and Ulva’s hands grew more wrinkled. She aged past her twin sister, and then they were different. Petria gazed into Ulva’s eyes and averted hers.
“I’m so sorry, Ulva. I’m sorry I left you behind. I…listen to me. You need to guide House Terland. I don’t know what happened, not exactly. I just know I was freed. And that [Princess]? She was there, and the Goblin King, I think. She beat them.”
“The—the [Princess]? The Goblin King?”
Ulva’s heart constricted with fear, but Petria held her hands harder, speaking urgently, gazing into her eyes.
“Ulva Terland, Virtue of House Terland, you must live! I don’t know the right course; I never have! But you must live, and do not dare join me a second too early! Save our House! Save our Golems! Save our very souls, for the foes who come against us would eat it all!”
“It is too hard.”
Ulva was begging. But Petria just smiled guiltily.
“I know. But I will wait for you here, Ulva. As long as it takes. When we meet again, we’ll go and see what else is out there. Until then, here I stand. Go back to that cruel world, and set those Golems’ hearts to beating as we once did. Be kind to that [Princess]. I think we must be on the same side. And…more than the [Princess], there’s a child. A little Gnoll child with white fur. If you should meet her, sister, then thank her on behalf of us all. And all those who will die. It was far from perfect. But she did it.”
Petria stared past Ulva, and now the ghost was receding. Two worlds drifting apart. Ulva was shouting.
“Petria, I don’t understand! What Gnoll? The Drake! How did she know you? The New Lands! What do I do?”
“I don’t know!”
Petria cupped her hands to shout back, and Ulva could have killed her sister. Because that—that was the most quintessential Petria answer. She had no clue. No idea. But the [Twin Virtue of House Terland] caught her breath, then gazed down.
“I’ll tell you this—I do remember that Drake who took my face! Ask her about how we met, if you’d care to know me entirely, sister! Just know I was too ashamed to tell you. Now, it feels so—silly.”
“What? What does that mean?”
Petria just laughed. And Ulva Terland reached out, for the lands of the dead, which she had never thought could have a continuation. Now she understood what Lady Bethal had been talking about, but this was more than even miracles or strange beings called ‘Goddesses’. This was beautiful. She yearned for it, this kindly vision of a place after death. But then Ulva saw Petria lift her hand.
“Ulva Terland, the Golems call your name. You have work to do. Stand. For House Terland, stand—”
 
——
 
Her damaged heart knit. The healing magics caught hold, and the Golem’s glowing eyes flashed as the [Lady]’s grey face shifted. It moved backwards, and Ulva Terland gasped.
The [Healer], the image of the Quarass, the nobles of House Terland being held back, tears staining their cheeks, their torn clothing as they wept, trying to touch their dying matriarch, all froze.
Ulva Terland breathed. Then stood. In one motion, not gracefully, not easily, but rising. With sheer force of will. With the aura of the twin virtues pushing her upwards. Like a corpse coming to life, cheeks flooding with ruddy blood, eyes focused on the far country coming to life.
She stood on the healing dais, shedding the healing crystals, the spent scrolls, and cried out.
“PETRIA!”
The single word threw her House on their butts. Even the Golems recoiled. The [Healer] turned dead white, threw his hands up, screamed, and fainted. The Terlands who didn’t pass out turned and ran, screaming.
Even the Quarass recoiled. Then pretended like she’d seen this a hundred times instead of barely a dozen. Ulva Terland reached a hand out, and her heart ached. Her body was beyond stiff. She had a foul taste in her mouth, and she was older, leaden, in agony.
But she lived.
She turned her head, and Lord Xitegen Terland gazed up at her from the shining scrying orbs. Then he knelt. Terlands bowed, those not running and screaming, and Ulva Terland stood there. Swaying.
“Aunt Ulva. You made it.”
That was all he said. Ulva gazed at Xitegen, and her weary eyes were glittering with tears. She wiped at them with one hand.
“I wish I had not, boy. But I have duties. When I die, you shall lead House Terland. Golems, witness me.”
There was only one Golem in this room, the bodyguards standing outside. But the healing Golem’s eyes flashed, and it spoke, though it had no mouth.
“ɪᴛ ɪꜱ ᴡɪᴛɴᴇꜱꜱᴇᴅ.”
Ulva Terland stood there a moment. Then Xitegen coughed.
“Aunt, there’s an announcement in the newspapers heralding your untimely death or survival. Either way, it might cause a war if it were to be announced. I realize you might wish to war with the Drakes, but—”
Dead gods, he could not give her a rest. She’d been alive again for a second and he spoke sense. Damn him. Ulva closed her eyes, then turned her head. When she opened her eyes again, he hesitated.
“I shall enjoy you leading this sorry house of stone, Xitegen. Cancel that. I shall dictate the news of my survival.”
He bowed his head, and Ulva sat down on the healing dais. Then she lay back down.
“I’m tired, however. Golem?”
“Yes, Lady Ulva Terland?”
“Fetch me my clothing. My old clothing. Adjust it for my size and dust it off. Then find Petria’s old companion-Golems and activate them. Then prepare me a list of every Golem in our 9th Vaults. Ready them for activation.”
She had the satisfaction of seeing Xitegen swallow hard and open his mouth, then cough. Ulva sat there dreamily.
“If I must, I will reduce that Wall Lord’s entire dig site to ash and blood, and Salazsar with it. For House Terland, and in honor of Petria Terland, I judge thee.”
Her head turned.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Hearts of Golems, beat.”
The healing Golem went still, and its gemstone eyes flashed. It pulsed, once, twice, and Ulva Terland sat there as the Mansion of Stone trembled. She sat there a while, then arose. She had work to do.
 
——
 
The day dawned like a dead man. Lying against a heap of dirt in the trenches, blood drying amidst his open guts. A fly crawling across one staring eye. Neck spines snapped, and his clenched teeth parted, revealing an empty hole through which his soul had fled.
Nerul Gemscale had known such days before, when sleep was impossible, however much you wanted to skip time and just pass this horrible ‘now’. But he spent it, snapping into speaking stones, communicating with Salazsar, Manus, trying to get in touch with the Terlands, anyone, to avert a war.
Only one thing would avert that war, and that was Ulva Terland living. But the [Diplomat] fought with all his tricks because he had seen war. And he wouldn’t have that again. Not the true war that this could lead to.
When he finally did sit back and someone sent him a [Magic Picture] of the day’s newspaper in First Landing, Nerul Gemscale exhaled.
 
ᴛᴀɪᴍᴀɢᴜʀᴏꜱ ɪɴ ɪᴢʀɪʟ. ᴀ ꜱʟᴀᴘ ᴛᴏ ᴛʜᴇ ꜰᴀᴄᴇ?
 
It was not the headline he feared. Which was one that referenced Ulva’s near-death, let alone the one that told the world she was dead. Nerul drank some coffee, scanning down the headlines.
 
ᴡᴀʀ ʙᴇᴛᴡᴇᴇɴ ᴛʜᴇ ɴᴀᴛɪᴏɴꜱ ᴏꜰ ᴏᴢᴛᴇʀᴀ ᴀɴᴅ ᴄᴜʀꜱʜɪʟ. ᴍᴏʀᴇ ᴏɴ ᴘᴀɢᴇ 𝟦!
 
Just…news. Nothing groundbreaking. But what struck his eye was the way the newspaper was formatted. It had a bit of dead space on the final page, almost as if someone had rearranged it and hadn’t had enough articles to fill it at the last moment.
“Hmm. Nerul to Salazsar.”
“Zail. Speak to me.”
The curt voice came from Ilvriss’ father. Nerul spoke quietly, grimacing. If Zail was in the command room, the ‘Last Sons of the Wall’—or whatever they were called—really were gaining in power.
“It’s not war. Ulva Terland’s not dead.”
“We just received the newspaper as well. How are you sure they’re not covering it up?”
Nerul grunted.
“[State of Nations]. I can tell when Salazsar’s at war with someone even if it’s not public, Zail.”
“Interesting Skill. The arrows are a bigger clue.”
That was Zail for you. Nerul didn’t dignify that with a response. He rasped as he felt the adrenaline leaving his body and realized he needed sleep, to de-scale his face, and a bath. He still ached from that idiot punching him. But he had work to do.
“I need a Wyvern or Pegasus flight back to Salazsar waiting for me at…let’s call it 9 AM, from Pallass. I won’t be long; I need one on standby, and I’ll likely need a heavy-duty flight.”
“You don’t weigh that much.”
That was enough. Nerul barked into the speaking stone.
“Zail, this is a crisis! As we speak, there are multiple threats on Ilvriss’ life coming his way! I can’t see them, but I’ll bet my tail the Terlands are sending more of their Hunter-Killers! He is a dead Drake walking, even if Princess Lyonette does her best. And the [Ranchers] are still angry at us.”
Silence a moment, then Zail’s voice ameliorated slightly.
“Ranchers. Has he not put them to flight? I’m heading north myself with reinforcements.” 
Nerul shook his head.
“It’ll take you months to get there, and we don’t have that many Wyverns. If we weren’t at war with Fissival—”
“Eschowar’s sending me. It’ll happen.”
…Lightning Lord Eschowar. Nerul recalled how damn fast that Drake could deploy units. He felt a crawl down his scales, but one battle at a time.
“Very well. Don’t escalate. That’s a damn order. I’m going to try to deal with the Terlands and the other issues, but I don’t have any prep-work. Just keep Ilvriss alive, and don’t kill anyone.”
“Very well.”
They hung up, and Nerul stood there, then rang a bell to ask for one of the staff to draw a bath, get him a go-bag, and some food. He had to fly. War had been averted, but as he saw it, that was only a mercy for Izril.
Ilvriss was in no better state than before after last night. The Lischelles hated his guts, and the [Ranchers] might be more coordinated in attacks. And the Terlands…
The Terlands were going to try and kill him again. Nerul had to hope Captain Osthia and his nephew’s own reflexes would keep him alive. He wasn’t helpless, but he’d gotten trounced in the last engagement. He had to set up properly; this was way harder than the Trisstral Alliance. At least the old Drakes being in charge might help. Nerul was about to break a few rules. He just hoped there weren’t any other complications floating around.
Ah, who was he kidding? There was always another complication. The Drake hissed to himself. To do what was necessary, he had to leave. He went to bathe and find something to eat before his chartered flight.
Back home, to Salazsar. Backwards as that seemed, that was where he needed to be to save Ilvriss’ life. He just hoped he could do what needed to be done in time, there.
 
——
 
In the morning, Lyonette was relieved to be given a brief [Message] via the Quarass of Germina.
 
Ulva Terland lives. She will not relent. You appear to have galvanized her. The Wall Lord is best served by flight, but he may level if he survives the next attempt on his life. It will be far more intensive. I regard this as a favor despite our arrangement.
 
A favor to the Quarass. Wonderful. But Lyonette had to believe it had helped avert total disaster, so she gave orders as she guzzled a cup of coffee.
“Mrsha, Nanette, you are staying in the inn this time.”
“No way! I’m coming with—”
“Absolutely not while we have Terland Golems running around. Rhisveri’s right. Dead gods. Did he ever get back to us, Ushar? Well, assume he helped with Ulva Terland. I’m not heading back instantly myself. I’d much rather Ilvriss come here. The Hunter-Killers won’t find him here.”
If he stayed at the inn, he’d be safe. That was her big idea. Lyonette sent a message to Ilvriss advising him to come to the inn, and then she paced around.
“We must speak to the Terlands! Is Nerul—”
“Leave them to me.”
He actually was in the inn, eating breakfast and holding a briefcase by his side. He appeared as bad as she felt, but he glanced up between popping fried eggs into his mouth and eating them in single bites.
“I have a plan with the Terlands. Even a way to mitigate the Lischelles. But it will take…weeks. I need you to stall. Keep Ilvriss here if it won’t endanger the inn.”
Lyonette cursed.
“The Lischelles…they’re not as bad as the Terlands, surely?”
Nerul grunted.
“One kills Ilvriss. The other raids and starves and punches down his workforce—which he doesn’t have enough of. The longer he’s in the north, the worse it gets.”
So both problems…Lyonette closed her eyes.
“Colfa’s at her farm. Someone get her? Ilvriss here, we strategize. Agreed? I’ll ask if Normen’s Order of Solstice can act as bodyguards. His [Soldiers] might be good, but they’re not able to fight—whoa!”
That was her nearly falling flat on her face as her legs gave way. Xinthe, Dalimont, and Ishkr all virtually teleported forwards to grab her. Lyonette felt woozy and stumbled as they helped her right herself.
“I’m fine. I’m just—”
She winced. Her legs were afire, and she felt weak. Ser Dalimont gave her a stern look.
“The dancing overtaxed you, Lyonette. Sit and give us orders.”
“I’m fine. I really am. I just—”
Mrsha and Nanette pulled out a chair, and Lyonette sat. And she wasn’t doing well herself. She sat back in her chair, groaning.
“Wonderful. My first real Erin-style crisis.”
If we live, you get a free cake, Mother.
Mrsha remarked, and Lyonette groaned. The girl scribbled.
I hafta go to school.
“School? Now? But I n—what a wonderful idea, Mrsha, dear.”
Lyonette realized that was the best place for Mrsha to be. The Gnoll girl got an elbow from Nanette, but she refused to budge. She was staying out of it. She wrote only one more note.
Ilvriss is going to have to go back to his dig site eventually. If they can’t find him, they’ll kill all his officers. I really doubt the Order of Solstice is going to do bodyguard stuff. Good luck, Mom. I don’t have a vision of the future to help you with, aside from maybe learning to dance that cool Highstepper thing. Wish I’d seen that. Oh, and using your Skills and stuff.
Lyonette turned red as Nanette giggled, and she was reminded of the most personal failure of all. Failing to do that dance! Ilvriss had struggled, naturally, and it had been a trap, but she was Calanferian royalty. She felt like she could have done it if not for…her condition. She sat there, sour.
“Did you do your homework? Have a lovely day, sweetie.”
Mrsha gave her a smug thumbs up and went out of the inn. And Lyonette sat there in the rainy Floodplains with a far more rapidly-changing, urgent world beyond sleepy Liscor. She sighed as she pushed herself up, wincing at the effort it took, and walked over to one of the windows. She opened it to stare moodily at the rainy landscape.
Between the undead and Bush Shamblers…they wouldn’t slow a Hunter-Killer Golem for more than a minute combined. But the inn being invisible is our greatest asset. And Bird, Elia, Todi, and Earlia could all be good defense. I can’t make Tessa fight. Vaulont is a good anti-[Assassin]…
Liscor, so quiet and unchanging now. Like her hidden inn—
The light shone into Lyonette’s blue eyes. Yelroan leaned forwards, and the light caught his sunglasses and blinded Lyonette twice.
“My eyes! Yelroan, stop that, your damn glasses—what the—what is that?”
At first, Lyonette thought the sun had parted the clouds. Liscor’s spring rains ended at last. But while the rains were lessening, that wasn’t what made Yelroan lower his sunglasses.
“I was going to ask, Lyonette, but I heard we might be at war with the north. Hexel’s been annoyed all week.”
“Hexel? Our lovely [Architect]? About what?”
He wasn’t even living here anymore; he and his assistants had built homes for themselves and moved into the city. But he was working on the—Yelroan pointed up as Nanette craned her head around the table, and Dame Ushar half-turned from speaking into a stone.
“The inn? He wants to know if he has to finish the whole thing before you move in.”
The [Princess]’ neck craned back. Then she had to lean out the window—before walking to another one. But she didn’t have a great view of…
“Where is that coming from? Is that—”
She climbed the stairs to the second floor, and there she had a better view, but she still had to crane her neck back and bend down—so she climbed onto the third floor with Nanette, Yelroan, and Ushar all following. Then Lyonette decided just to climb up into—
Bird’s tower. The emerald Antinium was snoozing as she held a fishing pole with an extraordinarily long line that was anchored to several spots and ran into the waters below. Bird leapt up and fanned her wings as Lyonette rushed to the side of the tower.
“I was just experimenting! I’m allowed to f—Lyonette, why are you here? Without even knocking? Do you think this is the alleged free real estate Kevin keeps talking about? Shoo, shoo!”
“Bird, I just need to see—Eternal Throne!”
And there it was. Bird peered in the direction that Lyonette was looking.
“The new inn? Yes, it has been there for months. I can see how it astonishes you, if you were blind.”
“But it’s—it’s—it’s finished! At least some rooms are! And that’s Hexel! Look!”
Directly across from them, no, even a bit higher up, Lyonette saw the Lamia. His tail was coiled in a neat bun, and he stood behind a layer of nigh-perfect glass; only the raindrops bouncing off the surface told her it was there.
He had a coffee cup and breakfast croissant in either hand. And he was watching her. Perhaps—smirking. Lyonette goggled. She gaped. She flabbergasted as Nanette clapped one hand to her mouth, giggling, and Dame Ushar smiled. Bird tried to shove Yelroan back down the stairs.
“Out of my tower! This is not public property! Only Nanette is allowed up here! It’s not my fishing pole, I don’t know how it got up here!”
“But what is—”
Bird nearly shoved Lyonette over the edge of her tower and down the roof, and Lyonette decided to get a better vantage point elsewhere. But it meant she had to walk down all the stairs, go through the trapped hallway, and leave the inn itself to see.
 
——
 
The new inn. Drevish’s posthumous work and the place that would replace the current inn, a masterpiece in every way. It wasn’t done, naturally. It had been an ambitious, hugely expensive project that Lyonette had only funded with Erin’s [Box of Incontinuity].
Hexel Quithail, the Lamia from Baleros, had sourced countless workers for the project, both Antinium and Rheirgest’s undead. He’d paid for magical materials from around the world and had to work in the rain and use weatherproofing spells to lay foundations on the hill. Lyonette had grown used to the construction site outside her inn—it transpired that the half-destroyed common room had the best views once she de-activated the illusion spells.
The new inn was not connected to the old inn. It was being built a stone’s throw away on the same hill, but Hexel had said even the foundations needed to be new for Drevish’s designs, and he didn’t want any of the inn’s regular chaos. So the worksite had been months of progress.
Lyonette had seen it going up day-by-day, with [Necromancers] and Antinium and Hexel’s people, but it had faded into the back of her mind. Especially since you didn’t have a good view from the windows in the rain, and everyone used the portal door unless they were going out across the water-islands. Who went outside except to use the outhouses—which were now moved and had their own covered walkways for the rain—anyways?
Yet there it stood. A wall of gentle oakwood, varnished darker and given the texture of an older building, a plain color, rose from neat, stone foundations. Just plain grey stone, the color of Rock Crab shells forming the base of the building that stretched right and left as far as her eyes could see.
A fake cladding that concealed the real wall, of course. Mere wood cladding over far harder, enchanted stone in a double-layer exterior wall with solidified magicore forming an interior insulating sealant. But it looked like what it should be.
An inn. Only, it stood over The Wandering Inn of the current day like an adult next to a child. One…wall of it.
It’s just a wall, Mom. Just walk right or left and you can see it’s not done.
To be precise, the southern wall of the new inn was somewhat up. Three floors, to be precise, on top of the foundations. The rest of the inn was indeed still just under construction, Antinium hammering new beams into place, pouring magicore into funnels—all under a huge bubble spell to keep the rain out—and measuring things.
Constantly measuring and consulting huge blueprints tacked up to boards. A trio of [Necromancers] were gesturing at one room in progress—magicore blocks arranged like bricks to form a wall—and clearly unhappy. One pointed, the other two argued, then they ran over, and the undead began disassembling this section of wall and moved it exactly one foot to the left.
Clearly, the blueprints Drevish had drawn were insanely complex. But Lyonette didn’t understand.
“Why the wall? Why is Hexel starting from one side?”
Surely, he’d do all the first floor, well, first. Then the second floor? Nanette shook her head knowingly.
“The new inn is like a jigsaw puzzle, Miss Lyonette. Each room fits together; you could build in the center and work your way out, and so long as you’re on-specification, it would all work right! Master Hexel took personal charge of the southern wall because different groups are assigned to each room. Plus, he wanted a place to take breaks in.”
That explained why the wall and rooms there were built up. But the [Princess] still had to run her eyes along the new inn’s exterior.
If this is what it was going to be…it made the Adventurer’s Haven appear quaint.
The first thing that caught the eye, what had dazzled Lyonette, were the windows. These weren’t the kind of windows you got in Liscor.
Most windows were, by necessity, a square design, usually with individual panes held in place by a metal guard. The four-square window with iron bars forming a cross was a standard in most homes—you got bigger sheets of glass for extravagant storefronts, but glass was expensive.
These windows? Massive, polished, and crystal. If Lyonette recalled right—quadruple paned. From Ailendamus’ artisans. So wide they revealed the interiors of each room splendidly, even if she couldn’t see all the way inside from below.
Polished crystal framed by brass. No iron in the entire building, not from the nails to the struts. The windows were like eyes, reflecting the true heart of the inn, hidden behind this humble-ish exterior.
She knew the design. When you passed through one of the secured entrances, you would enter a security checkpoint, and then the real inn should begin. A common room for main access, of course. Walk-in kitchen, and a courtyard in the center. Hallways leading to separate rooms. The gymnasium, rec room, multiple stories of guest rooms, a huge basement, a stable built into one side, interior well, plumbing in the toilets and bathrooms, secret escape routes…
She had gone over the designs many times. Even seen Hexel bring them to life with his Skill. But this was the first time Lyonette had ever seen the inn…as it was.
There were three finished rooms, each on a different floor of the inn. The third floor, where Hexel stood, had a floor-to-ceiling window along the southern wall. A way to overlook the Floodplains of Liscor and bring life and light to the interior. You could walk up to it and see everything, unimpeded, and vice versa. Lyonette had a perfect view into…a lounge?
Lyonette could see, in the golden light filtering down through that window, a big common room. But not like the current inn, with its almost all-wood design, exposed rafters, and plain wood tables. She swore she saw bright, soft white marble tiles, a corner counter with bar stools set against the window to let someone sip coffee and stare out across the Floodplains.
Someone like…Asgra. The Cave Goblin was snacking on a donut and drinking coffee blearily, checking a clock built into the wall and clearly counting down the minutes before she got to work. She sat on a high padded stool and glanced around. Saw Lyonette staring up at her from the inn.
Paused…then pointed at the clock on one wall and kept eating. Not my shift, don’t bug me unless it’s a crisis. And I expect to be paid overtime.
“Is…is that the breakfast nook?”
“What, that? Yah, it very nice. We eat breakfast there all the time. You didn’t know it got done?”
Peggy passed by Lyonette. The [Princess] half-turned, but then kept staring upwards. At Hexel. He was sipping coffee as well. And from the way he and Asgra looked so at home, it was clear the two were used to taking breakfast here.
A blue glow from further down distracted Lyonette, and she switched her attention to the first floor instead of the third. One window was emitting light, but unlike the yellow [Light] spells from the breakfast nook, Lyonette saw, in another window themed like a porthole…she squinted, then saw a weird plant, an anemone with long, tendrilly pink arms, slowly moving from left to right. Then a fish swam past it.
“…Is that the aquarium?”
Peggy shrugged.
“Eh…yep.”
“It’s not supposed to have a window! It’s for all the damn fish in Erin’s [Gardens] and—”
“Hexel said he thought it very cool to stare at. So he put window in. Also, he said having fresh fish is very important. Drevish not know everything since he a dry Chandrarian. It sort of hard to see into the second floor. Hold on, let me turn on the lights.”
Peggy went striding into the rain. The second floor was indeed un-illuminated, and Lyonette had been squinting into the much more formal, arched windows that were purely Terandrian to her. The second floor was far larger than the first floor or third floor, incidentally. At least, this room was; it dominated the wall. The aquarium-room was just one room on the first floor, meant to store fish. The breakfast nook might fit, what, sixty people at max occupancy?
Both were fractions of the sprawling second floor, but what was on…then a pale white glow shone through the windows. Lyonette stood on her tiptoes, cursed, and then snapped.
“Chair!”
A resigned Ser Dalimont produced her chair, and she stood on that. That gave Lyonette just enough vantage to see a column on the inside of the 2nd floor windows. A glimpse of some familiar smoothed stone on the far end of the vast space, and her eyes went round in delight. Of course, this has to be only one thing!
“Oh, the ballroom!”
It wasn’t a full ballroom, as much as she’d tried to get Erin and Hexel to go for it, but it was one of the classiest parts of the inn. She’d sold it to Erin as a place where the [Innkeeper] and Ulvama could dance. But it would also have some duality for classy tea parties and, Lyonette recalled from the blueprints, it would have a splendid path from the dining rooms up to it via some gentle ramps that made it less Centaur un-friendly.
For the new inn was no box. Hexel hated boxed structures. The inn was a multi-floor compound, just like how Liscor’s 3rd District had changed the very square-shape design of the city and given it a bit of flair. Antinium and skeletons were hard at work building on top of the ballroom, and the inn…
The inn was functional. Lyonette’s eyes roamed back up to the third floor, and the light that shone from the windows was gold. Magical. Bright, unlike her inn lit only by a few [Light] spells, the fireplace, and some lanterns.
Modern. As close to the Eternal Throne as she’d seen. Only one place could be brighter, and that was the [Gardens of Sanctuary] when they were open.
There was space for them in this inn too. Above her, gazing down at her, was the [Architect] behind it all.
Hexel was finishing his croissant. He gave Lyonette an arch, self-satisfied look as he lorded down over the [Princess] in his great work, master of his domain. She stood in her silly, half-destroyed inn on her chair as he turned grandly, and Asgra groaned as she hopped off her seat to punch in for work for the day.
Peggy nudged Lyonette.
“He been doing that all week. Just in case you saw. He be really happy you finally noticed. We moving in yet?”
Lyonette was at a loss for words. She turned to Nanette; the girl was already running out the door to explore the new inn. And Liscor, which she had thought was quiet? Lyonette looked up, and the clouds parted a moment to reveal blue skies beyond.
“Summer’s coming.”
Then she heard shouting and cheering from the hallway as Mrsha left for school. A roar of people.
“Silverfangs for the Council! Kr-shi-a! Kr-shi-a!”
“Vote for the old Council! Vote for a return to decency!”
Someone poked her head into the inn. Xinthe seemed nervous.
“Miss Lyonette? A Krshia Silverfang is trying to find her way to the inn. Should I admit her? She’s looking for you regarding those elections.”
Lyonette passed a hand over her head. Yelroan cleared his throat.
“I’ve prepared a budget for how much we can financially support Wall Lord Ilvriss’ enterprise, seeing as he might need it, Lyonette. I can go over that with you whenever. But don’t forget about the Golems. I’d put those higher than the digging.”
Lyonette didn’t respond. Oh, she had so much to do.
 
——
 
The day Ulva Terland nearly died came and went. While events had been set in motion, no one tried to kill Wall Lord Ilvriss the next day or the day after that.
Travelling took time. Vengeance took time. He got his people back to digging the day after they’d disposed of the Hunter-Killer Golem, and then he was just working.
Busy. Ilvriss certainly had his hands full.
“I want security tripled—everywhere, Asrira. The Rubirel Guard will be spread thin, but draw up more [Soldiers], and put our [Miners] on alert. Treat this like a dig with the possibility of monster attacks on any given day.”
He snapped at Osthia as she and his adjutants raced around. She was grimacing.
“I’m going to be spread thin, Wall Lord. And I can put our [Soldiers] on guard-duty, but the Sisters of Chell…”
He halted.
“They fought bravely.”
They hadn’t lasted more than a few seconds against the Hunter-Killer, but they’d saved his life. Osthia nodded slowly.
“They are not—happy with the casualties. I don’t understand their chain of command, but reinforcements should be coming. What should I do with them?”
He didn’t know. They weren’t helpful with the [Ranchers], but they were apparently good preventatives against underworld sabotage or [Assassins] that weren’t the Golem-variety. He rubbed at his temples.
“I need you to take command of them, Asrira.”
“Me? But sir, I’m a [Soldier]—”
“Xesci’s busy with her…brothel. And she doesn’t like command. You’re the only person with the flexibility to do it.”
One glance at Welsca revealed how reluctant she and his other ‘traditional’ aides would be to work with Humans, let alone criminals. He respected them of course, but they hadn’t been changed by their time among non-Drakes like he and Osthia had. She had to manage the Sisters. Reluctantly, Osthia nodded.
“I’ll try, sir.”
“Good. And, um, see to pensions for the dead, please.”
That was all he could devote to them. Of course, Ilvriss tried to seek them out to personally thank the survivors—and he had to talk to the local townsfolk.
Thirthoof was a small town, and the [Mayor] was a woman named Bootsy Barlie. A character—who wasn’t around here? But she was clearly overwhelmed by the Terland Golem attack.
“Dead gods. I never thought I’d see one of them here. Most we ever did see was a Clay Golem. This is real Terland work.”
The ruined, half-melted carcass of the Golem and the slagged Minotaur head shook her. She glanced at Ilvriss.
“Seems t’me that this is more trouble than you told me, Wall Lord. When you asked to dig—”
“Legally, I have a right to dig. No one owns these lands, Mayor…Bootsy. If your town objects to my company using its services, we will, of course, accede to that request. But I think the business we bring is welcome, is it not?”
She hesitated.
“Sure does bring in gold, and I heard one of your people started up a brothel.”
“Er…yes. I do apologize, it’s not something I personally sanction—”
“No, no. I think it’s good. Beats having [Streetwalkers] getting attacked. Far more respectable than two folks shacking up in an alleyway. But the, uh, Golems. And I heard the [Rancher] clans’ve been raiding you something fierce.”
He nodded at that, eying the woman who did have magnificent boots.
“They are. It is not an enviable experience, but I don’t believe the danger will come to your town, Miss Bootsy.”
“And if it does, Wall Lord?”
He bared his teeth at her before realizing that wasn’t a friendly smile to Humans. Ilvriss closed his mouth tightly.
“To my knowledge, my only offense has been digging in the north. I’m not the one launching raids or sending kill-Golems, Mayor. Perhaps you should direct your complaints at those responsible?”
He hoped she’d take that point, but the woman was, sadly, like most Humans. She peered at him and scuffed her bright gold boots against the floor of his command…tent. It wasn’t much, but she treated it like it was a high office in Salazsar. He’d seen her ‘office’; not a book in sight save for a ledger she used for the city’s finances.
Poor. The entire town was poor. It had a septic pond, and the streets were unpaved, and still—she eyed him and stood straight, for all she was a head shorter than he was.
“Since I reckon you’re not the slice-at-the-neck sort, Wall Lord, us knowing each other a few months, I daresay I’ll speak my mind which I wasn’t minded to when we first met.”
“…Of course. Go ahead.”
He sighed as she glanced around.
“Some might say you Drakes and Gnolls coming north is an invasion in itself. Y’know, since this is our land and in the past—”
“…We’ve been at war and murdered each other for generations. Yes, yes. Thank you, Mayor. No one’s brought it up.”
“Just speaking my mind. I realize you probably heard it from most folks, but you can’t blame me for saying what we’re all thinking. Plus, it’s hard enough for us to see you lot walking around flaunting what we don’t have.”
The woman’s voice was a shade cooler than before, and Ilvriss glanced at her, annoyed.
“I could argue with you for ages about Human aggression starting with Tyrion Veltras, but it’s a gemless endeavor, Mayor. As for flaunting, what flaunting? We have [Miners] and [Soldiers]!”
He was living in a military camp! But Bootsy just eyed the books on the walls, mostly about mining, then glanced around.
“Looks rich to me. All you Drakes with your gems—and I saw them outhouses you have. Very fancy.”
“…The temporary outhouses?”
They were just pieces of wood slapped up with adequate toilets for use en masse. Bootsy frowned at him.
“Very fancy. Not like ours. All magic runes and spells. You got some piping or stuff so it all drains natural, right?”
“That? That’s just a drainage ditch. We do have water spells, but the runoff isn’t contained. It runs into a septic pit, just like your lovely pond. It’s hardly…”
He trailed off because his instincts told him he was making a faux pas here. Bootsy shrugged, trying to remain impassive.
“Magic water spells? Very fancy. We don’t have any of that here. No gems, nor the [Enchanters] to have that. Just well water for us. Some of the [Rancher] families might have those, but that’s the City of Gems for you, ain’t it?”
He was reminded how wealthy her town was. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Plumbing would be cheaper, actually, but we didn’t bring the infrastructure—I see your point, Bootsy. But we are paying a fair price for goods. Beyond a fair price, I believe.”
She nodded amiably, but still with that slight edge that told him she wasn’t on his side.
“Oh, sure. That’s just us gouging anyone we can. Gotta make a living. Maybe it’s too much gouge, but well, Drakes and Gnolls and Humans. Not that I have a problem with Gnolls, mind!”
“No one seems to after the Meeting of Tribes.”
She didn’t respond to that, and Ilvriss sighed.
“…But there’s also a bit of economic envy involved here.”
“Just so you know. Your lot won’t leave anything so we have to grab all we can right now. Nor’s it fun working with you Drakes, according to the people who’ve hired on.”
Given how Drake hierarchies worked, and how friendly Salazsar’s people were feeling to Humans after all these raids and so on, Ilvriss believed it. He sighed.
“I understand, Mayor. We have our faults. But unless we’re banned from Thirthoof?”
They were not. So he crossed the meeting off his list, then glumly ordered fifty more head of cattle he just knew that the Lischelles were going to steal back next week. Ilvriss wished he could just slaughter the damn cows, but that much meat required more Chests of Holding than he had—especially after some [Thieves] had stolen two in the night. Heads of cattle were cheaper. When Lyonette invited him to Liscor, he almost went then and there.
But he couldn’t run. Drakes didn’t run.
Except when a Hunter-Killer Golem was chasing him.
…Ilvriss scheduled it for next week. He needed to see about hiring more [Miners], anyways. He instructed a few representatives in Liscor to try to hire more workers en masse, but the problem was competition. Alrric laid it out frankly over a meeting on budgets.
“The problem is, despite the door, you’re trying to outbid a lot of other good jobs, Wall Lord. [Miners] are considered bottom-tier work outside of Salazsar. It doesn’t exactly transfer to a lot of other jobs.”
“I know, I know. Liscor’s actually livable, so fewer workers from there, but we can get some workers, surely?”
Alrric growled as he worked, shuffling some papers around.
“Your reputation’s not good for the job quality, Ilvriss, and that’s before the rumors of these cattle raids spread. Now, traditionally, you’d have Esthelm and Celum and even Riverfarm to draw from; Invrisil would require higher pay to incentivize them, but they’re a huge pool as well. Celum normally as well. However…Lord Xitegen is in Celum, and his anti-Drake stance means few there want to work for you.”
“He’s not enforcing that, surely. I heard he was rather open-minded…”
“His attitude still makes citizens wary, even if no, he’s not putting any rules into place. Esthelm’s another problem. They’re traditionally [Miners]. However…Master Pelt’s in Esthelm.”
“And? He’s revitalized their smithing economy.”
“Right. So more [Miners] like to work around their home, not hundreds of miles away, even if it’s via door. Trust, again, Ilvriss. Riverfarm? Also out. Emperor Laken doesn’t like Drakes at all, given what Manus did. Plus, his lands are providing ample job security.”
Ilvriss’ head thunked down.
“And the solution is to do what Salazsar does best: outbid the competition. Only, you’re going to tell me that’s not an option.”
Silence. Alrric coughed delicately.
“It’s not that House Gemscales’ fortunes are gone, Wall Lord. On the contrary. Despite, uh, the Adamantium mine selloff, we found good prospects.”
Ilvriss had done that. Sold a fortune for Erin. He didn’t say a word, and neither did Alrric. He’d compromised Alrric’s job and his company for his friend. But now…Alrric went on.
“However, Wall Lord Zail is in charge now. Which means your shares are, uh—”
Reduced. Zail had begun demanding his share of the company’s finances, which meant Ilvriss no longer had the fortunes of the Gemscale Company’s profits to call on. Alrric hurried on.
“You have enough to keep financing the expedition!”
“I don’t see how. If Father’s not willing to back me—how many months do I have before I’m personally bankrupt?”
It was a word Ilvriss had never applied to his own fortunes. It was mostly a joke. Mostly. But he’d paid a lot for the Village of the Dead raid and financed quite a number of things out of his personal funds. He’d never run out entirely, but the Merchant’s Guild downgrading his account or being told he had to scale back or sell assets was a distinct possibility, surely. To Ilvriss’ relief, Alrric laughed.
“I’m not going to let you run out of gold, Ilvriss. You made two investments that are keeping you in the black. Remember your investment into Liscor?”
“Oh, right. I bought a lot of land. What happened with that?”
Alrric’s voice was too patient.
“You told me to develop it. Well, I did. We have plenty of housing. Rather lovely housing, not just mass-apartments. Shops, other buildings we’ve leased out—it’s an income. Check your spreadsheets.”
Ilvriss did and brightened up.
“That’s rather considerable. Bet on Liscor, heh. But that’s not enough t—what’s this number?”
His eyes bulged at another figure that dwarfed even the Liscor revenues. Alrric chuckled.
“Forgot your own genius, Wall Lord?”
“It says…High Grade Quartz and Enchanting? For what? Oh—!”
The Singer of Terandria. Ilvriss recalled when Brilm had put him onto the song crystals last year. He’d told Alrric to look into sourcing the materials to make more. Alrric’s voice was smug.
“We’re providing 36% of all materials that go into making the Singer of Terandria’s insanely profitable song crystals, Wall Lord. That’s your income. With all that said, you’re spending fortunes out here. I’ll raise the bounty on workers, and hopefully they’ll bite, but expect a trickle and plenty of turnovers occurring given conditions in your dig site. You might just break even at this rate.”
“Well, considering we’re experiencing Golem-Assassins and almost-daily brawls, I’ll take it. Thank you, Alrric.”
Ilvriss sagged. Then he had one more thought.
“Can you…can you buy some cheap but high-quality piping and get a few more experts, Alrric? Plumbing is a concern here.”
Bootsy had reminded him of that, and it wouldn’t hurt. Alrric chuckled.
“Dead gods, I don’t think I want to live there. I’ll have it rush-delivered and sent with your father when he arrives. Glad you asked.”
“Excellent, thank you. Wait, what was that about my father?”
Then Ilvriss’ headaches got worse.
 
——
 
The Last Defenders of the Wall were a rapidly rising faction in Salazsar. Old [Generals], leaders, [Mages] who’d had enough of dying in obscurity and wanted to do something with their lives.
It was more than just a fad; it literally seemed to rejuvenate many of them like old Eschowar. And in the way of the world, levels and Skills had rewarded that determination.
The problem was…it meant that the current leaders of the City of Gems were now fighting with their parents and elders for control. Said elders knew all the levers to pull and were taking back authority, doing things the ways they thought were best.
The old ways. Ilvriss had trotted out that tired saying, but only now did it occur to him that the old ways were definitely not always the best. The old ways had been war with the Humans before the Antinium had arrived.
Zail was those old ways. Ilvriss knew his father as the tired, grumpy Drake paranoid with loyalty to Salazsar, a divot taken out of his head, covered in war wounds, needing help to walk around, at times confused, at times just…empty.
The Drake who strode off the Wyvern and limped over still was old, still felt his wounds, but he walked like a soldier, and he had a single-edged sword on his hip that made the mind tingle to gaze at it.
Swordmaster of Salazsar. A title that Ilvriss had never acquired, despite his hard work. When Zail saluted Ilvriss’ command, for all he was shorter than Ilvriss, the younger Drake felt like he was still in Zail’s shadow.
It stung in a way Ilvriss had forgotten. Worse, Zail’s return wasn’t just in his bearing. He’d flown in on Wyvernback, amazingly fast. And he’d brought nearly two hundred [Soldiers] who were disembarking in good order.
“House Gemscale’s retinue. They’ll add to your security, Ilvriss. Where are your patrols? I heard you were being raided by [Ranchers].”
“Father, thank you for coming. Patrols? We have some regularly. These are our people?”
They didn’t have two hundred [Soldiers] in their personal staff, unless these were promoted [Mine Sentries]. Zail glanced up at the sky, the flat dung-infested plains, and at a group of Drakes and Gnolls marching slowly around the perimeter of Dig Site B.
“No fliers? No sentry towers? A Golem will punch through one in a second or ram through unless it has a six-layer [Earth Wall] spell. You, you. Start digging. The trench should be equally deep as it is tall.”
He gave orders, and Ilvriss’ heart sank, partly because…that was a sensible decision.
“Father, my people have security in hand—”
Zail ignored that.
“You’ve never fought Terlands. You didn’t bring Oldbloods? I’ll add more to our retinue when I get back. There are less than I’d like…”
“So these are our people? Are they new?”
Zail was striding along, and Ilvriss had to hurry to keep up. He didn’t like this, but Zail looked alive. Even happy.
“I’m employing them. That’s how we did it. Not just the Gemstone Regiments; we need our own trained people. I brought some of your fancy ‘special forces’ you initiated. They’re not bad.”
He must mean the anti-Az’kerash forces! Ilvriss saw some rather well-equipped soldiers milling about in a separate group. Who’d arranged that? He’d take them, but—he was growling at Zail now.
“Father, I’m not here to fight a war.”
“Maybe not, but you’d better be prepared for one! They nearly killed you, Ilvriss!”
Zail spun and jabbed Ilvriss in the chest with a claw. He was angry, Ilvriss realized to his gratification. Zail peered around, motioned everyone back, then lowered his voice.
“I saw that thing going after you. We all did. You did well escaping one, son. Plenty of comrades haven’t.”
He awkwardly put a claw on Ilvriss’ shoulder. Both men stared at it, and Zail took his claw back, clearing his throat.
“Everyone was watching. We didn’t spread news of the attack, since we don’t need a war, but believe me, it shook everyone. Your friends, other Wall Lords—even Calistoca stopped sniping with Itreus long enough to fall in line.”
“They all saw it?”
They all saw Ilvriss running for his life while good people fought and died? Ilvriss’ heart sank, but Zail was smiling encouragingly, and there it was again. We are not on the same tier of spellcasting.
“We showed the image around. Told people—quietly, son. Everyone cares. It’s galvanized support. We’ll pay the Terlands back for this, don’t you worry. Eschowar has a plan—”
“No!”
Ilvriss shouted. Zail recoiled as heads turned, but the Wall Lord took his father by the shoulders.
“Father, no! No Eschowar, no retaliation!”
“Ilvriss, lower your voice! They nearly killed—”
“I’m in their lands, Father. I might disagree with the damn Terlands and Lischelles and every idiot here, but if they kill me, we cannot go to war! Nor should Eschowar continue his stupid campaigns against Humans!”
“They sent a Hunter-Killer against you! They’ve killed—”
Zail’s eyes narrowed, and he began getting angry. Which was how Ilvriss often remembered him. But Ilvriss was just as angry. He only lost his temper like this with his father. The one man he couldn’t outrank, really.
“I’ve seen how this goes, Father! We have to ‘pay them back’, then we do something to them, they reply, and it escalates! Even if it’s not this year, we just build up bad blood until we can’t even go past Liscor without trying to assassinate each other! Look around: this is the result of our damn wars! There’s no point. We have real enemies to fight!”
“…You mean the Antinium.”
Zail had gone from angry to outraged to quiet. He eyed Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord thought a name.
Az’kerash.
But he could not say it here, so he gritted his teeth.
“And more. The Humans are not our foes here.”
“Plenty of times that’s been said only for them to stab us in the back at the right moment when we let our guards down.”
“And once, we were about to be overrun and Magnolia Reinhart came from behind us and bailed us out of annihilation!”
Ilvriss snapped. He’d never argued like this with Zail, and the older man recoiled.
“You sound like Navine. What’s gotten into you? Is it this…[Princess] you’ve been associating with?”
“It’s not the [Princess], it’s sense, Father. Listen to me. If Eschowar wants to respond to the Terlands, stop him. If they do something to me, don’t respond. We have bigger wars to win.”
Zail was staring at his son like he was a disappointment, a traitor, and a stranger. All the things Ilvriss feared, but the Wall Lord didn’t look away. Zail whispered.
“If they kill you, you want me to do nothing?”
“I hope it won’t come to that. Nor do I exactly want to go unavenged, but I need you to see the big picture, Father. That’s what you always told me.”
“A bigger picture than the North?”
“Yes. What did you think the Winter Solstice was about, Father? The Goblin King’s return?”
“So it’s the [Innkeeper] you care about. Her wars.”
Zail glanced away, now disappointed. Ilvriss wanted to punch him. He couldn’t, because the old man was probably still fragile, even if he appeared as tough as teak right now. Ilvriss tried to shake Zail, and the other Drake grabbed his hands. Forced Ilvriss’ claws off him.
He was way stronger than—Ilvriss swallowed because he just realized Zail was stronger than him. For all his age and wounds that had laid him lower, the Wall Lord’s eyes narrowed.
“You told me when you left that you had to do this alone. For Salazsar, Ilvriss. I…trusted you. I still do. But everything I remember about the north applies to them. Ulva Terland’s warred with us. She’ll never relent. How are you going to survive without fighting a war?”
Ilvriss didn’t know, and he said so. He stepped back.
“I’ll try to change their minds, Father.”
“Like Nerul?”
Zail sneered, and Ilvriss just gazed at him until the older Drake hesitated and grew uncertain. Ilvriss shook his head.
“That’s unworthy of you, Father. Yes, like Nerul, but also like Zel Shivertail. I’m no Tidebreaker. But I don’t think he was a fool. I have to try. General Sserys trusted me with locations. This is one of them.”
He’d been saving that trump card, and Zail went still. He hadn’t seen the ghosts, but Ilvriss had. Even now, that felt like a dream. Erin’s face being worn by a dead hero, whispering to him places to dig.
A silence arose, then, from Zail and the eavesdroppers. To that, Zail had no reply. He glanced around, then kicked at a dried piece of cow dung in the grass. After a while, he heaved a sigh.
“If you’re still set on doing this, you need more security, which I’ve brought. I’ll make some recommendations to your people. Just…don’t get yourself killed.”
That was, Ilvriss supposed, the best he could hope for. He nodded at his father and realized the times were changing. He just wished he were certain they were for the better. Old Drakes.
Old ways, some which Ilvriss thought were misguided. And sometimes…they hurt to see because they reminded you what you had to live up to and might never achieve. They said the young should surpass the old, but what if you stood in the shadow of legends?
In that one way, Ilvriss supposed he and Iradoren, the [Prince of Men], had been slightly alike.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail didn’t like how his fight with his son had gone. His certainty had become uncertainty, both in his son’s decisions…but also in what he thought was right. That was weakness, of course. Indecision was death on the battlefield. But he had always found it harder to deal with…other people than a war.
He knew war. His son had seen battlefields, fighting for Salazsar. But he had not fought even a hundredth as many battles as Zail. One was a [Lord of Commerce], even if Zail didn’t know his son’s exact class.
He had been a [Lord of the Battlefield] when he was younger. So, all his anxieties, confusion, indecisiveness vanished.
Wall Lord Zail drew his sword. The sword he carried had only a single edge. It was not Drathian, but a Drake’s design. Older than he was. The hilt was curved differently than Human blades, with deeper grooves and a wider base that a Human would have found hard to grip; perfect for a Drake to avoid their claws digging into each other.
Truegold hilt. 10% Mithril-composite Gaam-steel, fullered down the blade, with faded gem-patterns around the hilt. The reverse side was flat; a weakness, some called it, but a blade should cut true. There was only one place where it was not flat; the tip had a flared edge moving away from the cutting edge.
Spikes, shaped like flames, so if Zail needed to, he could reverse the slash and drive in the reverse edge into unguarded flesh. The curved spikes left wounds that didn’t close right and could hook an opponent’s weapon.
A sword of Salazsar’s sons. He’d once offered it to Ilvriss, but the boy hadn’t known how to use a single-edged sword. He was not a Swordmaster of Salazsar.
Zail carried no golden bell. He was not a [Fencer] or [Duelist]. He just had a single tag that hung from his belt since the pommel of the blade might catch. It was a sword of gems cracking the side of a mountain. The kind of seal that, if you were his audience, you might recognize.
But from where? You’d stare at the little seal as Zail lifted his sword and realize you’d seen it just once before. On the blade a [Sword Legend], a Revenant undead, had carried.
Then, you might understand what that meant. Perhaps Ilvriss himself did; Zail hadn’t been well enough to wield that sword in decades. The Wall Lord gripped his blade two-handed and swung. A horizontal cut, almost lazy in speed, but precise. He angled his body, stepping to the side, slashing up and backstepping.
A strange pattern. His first cut, across the oversized training dummy’s chest, was light, but when Zail sliced up, he came across the outside of the ‘Golem’s’ arm. He used that blow to push off with his sword, backstepping and pushing himself away in a single motion. He turned, his tail moving in the grass, and delivered a third whirling slash to the back of its leg.
He strode away from the training dummy, sauntering as he sheathed his sword, taking his scabbard from his belt and sheathing it horizontally. Then he addressed the watchers.
“That’s how you fight a Golem. One sword form, at least. Do that.”
Do…that? He nodded at some [Soldiers] to practice the move. Ilvriss was watching and blinking.
“There are anti-Golem sword techniques?”
“Of course there are. You weren’t ever taught any in your fancy sword school training?”
Zail frowned at Ilvriss. The younger man hesitated.
“Some, but that was an odd move. You used the second slash to propel yourself off the Golem’s arm. So you’re expecting it to attack like that?”
“Any limb will do. The most dangerous place to fight a Golem is head-on. Or to try and surround it; any decent one will tear apart a formation. You have to close with it. Keep moving around it. Strike the joints. Spear-formations won’t work.”
Well, they’d work, but the front ranks would be minced. A dozen Drakes with blades and courage could do the job of two hundred rank-and-file soldiers. Zail eyed Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord hesitated.
Zail had never had the chance to teach his son swordsmanship. His condition had deteriorated by the time Ilvriss was old enough to really want to learn. But now, the Wall Lord drew his own sword.
“I’ll try it.”
It took him eight tries to figure out the exact move to push off the Golem’s limb, and his ability to spin and slash was almost nonexistent. Zail snorted, trying not to be—
“You don’t do any twists or spins in battle?”
“Never expose your back to the enemy, Father. That’s what I was taught. Besides, the spins are too fast! How can you control yourself?”
“Pah. That’s what your tail is for!”
“My—ah.”
He didn’t use his tail! Humans might have trouble with these techniques, but your tail was an anchor and balance for this kind of move. Zail watched, shaking his head. But the second time Ilvriss managed a decent copy of Zail’s move, the old Wall Lord wished…
He wished he’d had this Skill to reclaim his strength decades ago. He watched for a while. Then he and Ilvriss retired to let other soldiers try the moves. They snacked on some things Ilvriss called ‘hot dogs’, which Zail worried about until he was told they were beef.
“You’re not bad. I suppose you really have been training.”
“Thank you, Father. I’m glad I meet with your approval. I won’t be a Swordmaster of Salazsar, though, no matter what I do.”
Ilvriss’ voice was dry, and Zail rolled his shoulders uncomfortably.
“That wasn’t an insult. You could be, if you took the time—”
“I don’t have your head for battles. I’m…decent. Decent at battle. Better at business. An all-rounder.”
“Well, you managed House Gemscale more adeptly than I could.”
“Thank you.”
This was one of the more positive conversations they’d ever had. It beat sitting in their apartments arguing. After a moment, Zail coughed.
“Look, Ilvriss. I understand you don’t want to escalate, but if you don’t reply, it’s weakness. They’ll keep coming at you. Bullies never stop. I taught you to fight back.”
Ilvriss sighed.
“You taught me to beat them down to protect Brilm, and I did, Father. That works on bullies and because it was just them. This is the north. It’s not the same.”
“I’m just offering…I can’t be here long. We still have a war with Fissival, but if I took some soldiers, led a counter-raid on these [Ranchers], you could say it was just me—”
“No. How do you think they’d react?”
Poorly, but Zail had a desire to take some real fighters and punch his way through a few thousand Humans to show them what a real brawl was like. He bit his tongue. If he had that happen to him, he’d reply. So Ilvriss was right, but—
No good solution. He had to…trust his son. Or at least, let his son do what he wanted and be ready to bail him out. Zail grunted.
“If those Golems come for you, run. Don’t listen to what those idiots say. You did the right thing. If you’d tried to fight it, I’d be burying you.”
Ilvriss’ head rose. He nodded at Zail once.
“I hope not, but…if they come, they come. The reinforcements should help. As for your actual forces…”
Zail glanced at the mining teams going back and forth from the dig sites. He paused.
“I noticed what you brought. Good. They weren’t in position, though.”
“I’ve never had a Golem try to assassinate me. It’s far faster than we thought. And, ah, harder to stop.”
“Hah. We’d buy you drinks all night for that. First dance with a Terland, we called it.”
More awkward silence. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“How did you get here, Father? You flew in on Wyvern. Did you fly all the way from Pallass? You couldn’t have taken the door. You must have used more Wyverns than I thought they had, with the losses they took at the High Passes. Unless Salazsar has Wyverns I didn’t know about? It must have cost a fortune.”
Zail smiled crookedly.
“No, it was Eschowar’s doing. He has movement Skills that used to be the best in Izril. As for how…”
He casually twisted a ring, then spoke in the secrecy spells.
“We flew straight north. Through the High Passes. There are flight paths through the mountains if you can take the risk.”
Ilvriss’ head snapped up.
“There are?”
“Dangerous ones. I was scouting them out. We might have to clear them. But it’s how you strike at the Humans if…”
He fell silent. Ilvriss sat there, reminded of the wars they had used to fight. Then he murmured.
“Eschowar. I studied my history books, of course. I knew him when he retired and you were still—more mobile. But he was always small.”
“Age does that to you. He wasn’t the same after he was forced to retire.”
Now Eschowar was back, at least for a few minutes each day. Ilvriss bit into his hotdog.
“Tell me about him, Father.”
“Eschowar? Brilliant leader. Taught Wall Lord Aldonss. With him, the Cyclops, and General Garllor, we were a strong alliance—when Pallass wasn’t stabbing us in the back.”
Ilvriss squinted, like someone trying to recall a lesson.
“That was Oteslia, then? Garllor. We had an alliance, and we fought the other Walled Cities. And the north. And the tribes. Ancestors. Eschowar’s campaign of lightning strikes—I should be glad he’s back, I suppose. Fissival must be regretting it.”
They were, in spades. Zail was describing some of the offensives Salazsar had taken in the war, hitting cities under Fissival’s aegis of protection, but Ilvriss just sat there.
“We shouldn’t be fighting each other, Father.”
“They attacked you. Nearly killed you.”
What was with Ilvriss and ignoring the times he’d nearly died? Ilvriss just shrugged.
“I attacked them at the Meeting of Tribes.”
To protect Gnolls. Not what Zail would have done. Again, there was that rift, and Zail just…
“I’m doing what I think is best for Salazsar, Son. Making our military stronger before I die.”
“Don’t talk like that. I think we need a stronger army too, but—what’s the end goal, Father? For the Last Defenders of the Wall?”
“Leaving Salazsar ready for what comes next. What’s your goal here? With this [Innkeeper] who seems to cost you so much?”
Zail challenged Ilvriss hotly, and the Wall Lord just glanced at him.
“Leaving Izril, leaving the world ready for what comes next, Father.”
Zail blinked.
“Enemies and allies? The north and south and Terandria and other nations?”
“They’re not my enemies, Father.”
“These [Ranchers] seem to be.”
“Then they’re temporarily enemies. It doesn’t have to be that way forever. I’m trying to negotiate a ceasefire, a truce.”
“They’ll always be…”
Zail closed his mouth, and Ilvriss looked at him. Just looked, then glanced around.
“That’s what I would have said about the Antinium two years ago, Father. Or Humans. Just…think about it.”
Zail glanced at Ilvriss when he brought up the Antinium, but Ilvriss just shrugged. He couldn’t push his father that far, and Zail let it drop. They sat there, and Zail ate another hotdog. And another. He ate four hotdogs; Ilvriss managed one and a half. They really weren’t the same. Zail turned to Ilvriss as the Wall Lord produced a handkerchief to wipe his mouth. Zail had just used his sleeve.
“The Winter Solstice.”
Ilvriss froze. Zail studied him.
“I saw the reports. Some of the scrying spells before they went down. You know, plenty of your fellow Wall Lords think it was an illusion or Skill that looked worse than it was?”
“It was on scrying spells. How do they…? No, I had Brilm asking me about it. I guess if you’ve never met a Draugr, you can believe they were just big Ghouls.”
Ilvriss’ mouth twisted. Zail cleared his throat.
“I’ve fought Draugr. I know how fast they move. I believe.”
Ilvriss glanced up, and his eyes filled with gratification. Zail paced around in a circle, hand on his sword’s hilt.
“It’s just…if the threat were still out there, I’d have that woman hunted down. Eschowar would be sending out kill-teams. But they were killed, right?”
“Essentially.”
“And there are more such threats out there?”
“…Five. Possibly four or three.”
Ilvriss seemed like he was counting. Zail’s scales tingled, but he gestured to the camp.
“So this is what that’s about. I can see that. My actions seem like they counter that. But if you had a location, even a lead, Son…”
“I don’t. I just know what I was told.”
“By the [Innkeeper].”
“Yes. I’m taking it on faith. And the fact that she’s always been right before. But that’s why I’m here, Father. That’s why the old fights feel pointless.”
“I see. So it’s going to be worse than a hundred thousand Draugr.”
Ilvriss peered up, and he met his father’s eyes with that simple earnestness.
“Yes.”
Wall Lord Zail had fought across Izril. He’d battled Archmages, renegade Zelkyr Golems, Nagas, and Humans of Izril and Terandria, and even then…a hundred thousand Draugr. He sat next to Ilvriss.
“I’m trying to believe, Son. I am. When you find one of these…things. Tell me. If I see the enemy, I’ll be right there. And I’ll make sure the others believe. Some of them saw ghosts and yours—they’ll listen.”
They were all on the same side, that of Salazsar, weren’t they? But for some reason, he seemed to feel like he was at cross-purposes with Ilvriss, and his son seemed to sense that too. But he just nodded.
“I’m counting on that. This is me doing my part, Father. I still think I have a chance, Terlands and Lischelles or not. Thank you for the help.”
After a while, Zail got up. He had to fly home soon.
“I’ll do a few more tours of the dig sites, just to make sure things are going well. Check in with your subordinates. It was good to see you, Ilvriss.”
“Yeah.”
Zail strode away, not wondering if his son was a traitor or addled by love, because it hadn’t appeared that way. But just…thinking. Disturbed.
Hoping he didn’t have to fly back north to bury his son and avenge him.
 
——
 
Days passed. After the Golem Incident, the work at the dig sites resumed, more or less according to ‘normal’.
But what was normal? You had to wake up in your tents each day, trudge past the fly-infested cattle dunglands, through mud sometimes if some idiot Wall Lord’s son walked in it and made everyone copy him, then get to work.
Mining. Digging up tons of dirt, which was more of a pain than stone at times, and hauling out rocks as you dug down and down…
Worse than Salazsar’s mines? Definitely. Any real [Miner] would tell you that. Oh, sure, you could work for a bad company in Salazsar and there’d be angry [Miners] ready to brawl, bad safety-standards, lousy pay, and mandatory overtime.
But in Salazsar, they still had minecarts that carried you down to the right shaft. You still could go back into the city after work and spend your gold. They still had…infrastructure.
Backup mining teams. Gear. [Healers] and adventurers. When you were off your shift, the worst thing that happened was that there was a traffic accident or brawl, and the Watch would be there. You didn’t troop back to your tents, sweating and exhausted, only to have a huge line for the damn outhouses, then for a Human to run up and belt you in the face and try to steal all the cows.
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ expedition sucked. A fact he would readily agree with—before the Golem Incident. It was unpleasant and hard because the deeper the [Miners] and [Diggers] went, the further they had to haul things up. The more they had to reinforce the shafts. And the more monsters they risked running into.
You know what liked to live deep down in the dark of the earth? Big monsters. Nests. Crelers. It was a known fact that the deeper you went in the ground, the worse things got. Think about it: normal, cute monsters like a Fuzzyworm Intestinescrambler or some shit was a Silver-rank threat. It had to eat. It might get big and nasty and evolve into a, uh, a Killertitanfly Intestineblowerupper in time, but it operated like most creatures.
But the deeper you went, the less food there was. Which, you’d say, meant fewer creatures, right? Wrong.
The big things liked the dark. The big things lived on the mana that compressed down there. Mana compressed; every [Miner] knew that. That’s why magical gemstones were deeper down. And guess what thrived on magic?
The really powerful monsters. Things went down there to hide and gather strength, and then some idiots started swinging a hammer while they’re napping, and guess what they decided to do?
Mining was all horror stories. That’s why you always had a team ready to fight what came out of a mine. Salazsar, now, Salazsar was fairly safe despite the gemstone deposits because you had adventurers ready to go; they had standards of safety in place.
This was the wild. This was frightening, and so the worst job you could have in Ilvriss’ entire expedition was one specific title:
Advance Miner. That was a job for someone who, well, mined at the head of the pack. They were in the deepest area, the ones widening a vein. They were the ones who woke whatever was down there and ran for it or got eaten.
Proportionally, they were the ones who got paid the most. Which was why young bucks signed up for the job. No one smart or with a family or who’d seen what happened to an Advance Team wanted the job.
So, for context, that was why [Advance Miner] Georgie was tolerated.
Not liked.
He had fourteen incident reports on his record from this dig alone. Drinking while working. Brawling with other miners. Insubordination to [Foremen]. Lecherousness to female employees. Urination in non-latrine areas. Pocketing minerals.
He would have been drummed out of any normal mining team by their [Foreman] in the first week. He was sarcastic when he wasn’t ill-tempered. He was first to throw a punch if there was a fight. He was also…well, important.
“Georgie, get your claws out of your ass and get to work!”
A [Foreman] with dust all over his fur and nose plugs in roared on yet another day of work, and Georgie stopped trying to flirt with a pair of very annoyed Drakes and threw a salute.
“Yessir, Foreman Dirr, can’t wait to dig up more dirt for the Gemscale company! Whole lotta shit. All fifteen gems we’ve got sure are lining the big Drakes’ pockets in their towers.”
“Shut it, Georgie!”
That came from half a dozen voices, and Georgie ambled his way down the mining shaft, past teams digging out branches in the earth.
Branches, yes. It was all exploratory mining. No exploiting veins—not that they’d found shit here besides some vaguely precious rock. It was all earth, so the [Miners] dug out, each branch spaced well out from the other.
Looking for something. Georgie would have called it prospecting, but for what? This was not good earth. He could tell that, and he knew the [Prospectors] claimed the Cowpat Plains were worth less than the cowpats.
But they dug down in multiple sites, searching for what only the Wall Lord knew. All Georgie was aware of was that any time he found a shitty piece of ceramic pottery, all the bigwigs would run over and make them dig in the spot they found.
Pottery. Or ceramics. Something that was orange-white, that had an inner color of the same make. A few had faded designs on them…some kind of vases or something?
Georgie had found six pieces in Dig Site 2, which was why they had an entire dig site here instead of a single exploratory shaft. Well, six pieces he’d reported.
He had two more hidden in his spare boots in case he could sell them.
Georgie had no company loyalty, unlike other Drakes and Gnolls. He knew House Gemscale was the ‘best’ company to work for. Well, it felt like shit here. Besides, no company had any loyalty towards him. So why play the nice Drake?
They’d kick him out sooner or later, so he’d milk this contract for all it was worth. He grumbled as the heat baked into the ground made him sweat through his overalls. He didn’t take his shirt off like some Drakes and Gnolls, but he swore a blue streak.
“Ancestors damned heat. Stinks like hell. Foreman on my tail all the time.”
Dirr, who was following Georgie literally three paces behind to make sure he was working, glared.
“Less talking, more walking, Advance Miner! You want to get paid?”
Georgie sauntered down the dirt steps, refusing to go faster. Dirr appeared ready to explode, but he didn’t tell Georgie to get off the dig site. He didn’t even write him up. Because again—
Advance Miner.
There were six in the bottom of the shaft, a hundred foot radius between them and any other team. Six, each one over Level 20. They all had bags of holding. One person was shovelling dirt into a Chest of Holding, the rest yanking stones out.
“Hit another rock vein. Georgie, come and h—”
One of the Drakes was swearing and actually using a pick on a stubborn section of rock they had to go through when a pickaxe took a huge chunk out of the stone. She shouted, ducked—every Advance Miner was on their feet, ready to run, when they turned.
Georgie had tossed his pick.
“[Gouge Throw]. Hey, I’m working.”
“That’s it, Georgie! One more incident and I’m docking your pay!”
Dirr roared, and George swore at him, then stepped forwards to start mining. He swung his pickaxe hard and fast when he finally began mining, ripping through stone. The Drake was sweating already, but when he worked, the stone vanished. Annoyed, but seeing him working, the other Advance Miners spread out more. Dig. They didn’t have to widen the shaft much; they just had to go deep or far. That was the job.
Go first, and if anything was out there, sense the tremors, hear their [Dangersenses] or [Forewarning: Monsters] or other Skills go off, and get out of there before they died. Once they were done, then the regular [Miners] could come and actually widen the holes.
No one said a word as they dug for a while. Grunting, swearing—Georgie gnawed on the cigar in his mouth. At last, one of the Gnolls growled.
“You ever gonna light that damn cigar, Georgie?”
“I only got one from that fancy Gnoll. Like hell I’m lighting it. Down here with gas? You want us dead?”
“Just asking how stupid you were. Can’t tell with Madtail Georgie.”
“Fuck you.”
They did relax, though, which suggested that had been a fear. Georgie rolled his eyes.
“You think this is the first damn mine I’ve ever been on? I’ve done more advanced jobs than women you’ve kissed.”
The other [Advance Miner] turned and raised a fist, but another body-blocked him. Back to work. Georgie shifted the cigar around in his mouth, grinning. It beat tasting this damn soil. After a while, someone grunted.
“First [Ranchers], now Golems. Think we’ll get pulled out of this? Fat paycheck if our contracts end early.”
“Doubt it. Drakes don’t run.”
That came from one of the two Gnolls. Grunts of agreement. Georgie spat.
“You so ready to run? Why’d you lot sign up for this?”
“We work for the Gemscale Company. Wall Lord Ilvriss needed volunteers, and he pays well. We wanted to support him and see the north. Why the hell are you here, Georgie?”
One of the four miners with regular contracts with House Gemscale answered. They checked something; a little glass bird in a cage hanging by their hip.
Georgie had one too. For all he’d bust up any gear they gave him, he never damaged that.
Not the Miner’s Canary. It was a magical version of an old practice that [Miners] had. The canary which died before you did if you hit gas. This was a modern version of that, a magical artifact that detected poison, gas, and so on. If it chirped, they were gone. If they hadn’t given him one, he’d not have a cigar in his mouth; he had to smell if something was around him. Not that some deadly gases smelled.
In a different company, he might not be issued one, and then you’d hope someone had a Miner’s Canary, but that cost a lot of gold. The kind of gold even [Advance Miners] couldn’t make, which was why few groups could afford to go solo. Why the companies were the only place to work in Salazsar unless you were a risk-taker. And even then, they liked to cut corners. So Georgie relied on what he had.
Instinct. Practice. He did have a lot of experience. Being in his thirties as an [Advance Miner] meant he was an old man. You didn’t last long in this class. You retired or died at some point. Georgie grunted.
“I came because I’m the best there was, and they paid me five times the standard signing bonus.”
“Five times? You bastard!”
“Yeah? You didn’t negotiate your contract right.”
He sneered at them, and the female Drake in the team eyed him.
“And because no other reputable company wanted to hire you, eh, Georgie? Working a crazy job like this is the only way you get paid.”
He didn’t answer that. Just yanked something out of the stone and grunted.
“Found another shard.”
Oaths. He grinned as he tossed it in a bucket; there was a bounty on any ‘artifacts’ like these. Then he glanced into the hole.
“Hey, you lot, guess who’s pulling home a ten-gold bounty today?”
There were more shards in the tunnel. The others clustered around.
“Okay, that’s a team discovery.”
“Eat shit, I found it.”
“You can’t take credit for all of it, Georgie. We all got here! Don’t damage it. Someone get a shovel—”
Georgie plunged the pickaxe in the loose dirt and stone and ripped the entire area out with [Traction Pull]. They shouted as the dirt collapsed over them, and he grunted.
“Stop screaming. The stuff doesn’t break. I hit it with a pickaxe hard one time—it’s tougher’n basalt.”
He tapped the end of his steel pickaxe hard on one of the orange fragments, using a piece of stone as proof. Then gave it a damn good swing. His pickaxe powed upwards, and they shouted at him, but the piece of pottery or whatever just jumped.
“Ancestors, what the hell is this? Some kind of dungeon fragments? Armor?”
No one knew, but they sent one of them up to Dirr. Georgie listened with half an earhole to make sure they didn’t take credit for his work, then he kept mining.
Sweat and dirt was mixed in his scales now. It was hot. Oxygen lowered in the confined spaces; there was a shout after another twenty minutes.
“Fresh air coming down! [Windblast] in five!”
A [Mage] fired a wind spell down, cycling the air, and everyone breathed deeper, and felt their scales and fur cool. Then it heated up. Even with Ilvriss paying for it…
They worked in four hour shifts. Georgie would get off for an hour or two, then go back in. Ten hour days. Then back to sleeping in the shitty barracks after showering with a rain spell and, if you were lucky, fight a drunk [Rancher] and sleep without a healing potion for any cuts and scrapes.
Georgie’s arms hurt from the repetitive work. Healing potions in mines mattered. He was grimy. He took a piss in a corner when no one was looking rather than walk all the way up, and the Gnolls began swearing at him.
Yet they dug. And no matter how miserable it was, all of them, even Georgie, stayed. Not just for the pay. Not just to get in good with the Gemscale Company and get assigned to a cushier job or be promoted. One more reason, which everyone here knew:
They were all levelling.
Misery made levels. Adversity made levels. Georgie had levelled four times working here.
Four. He was eying Level 35 this year. If he did that, even the companies who’d blacklisted would take him back. Maybe even if they knew his other indiscreti—
The Drake’s practiced [Miner’s Swing]—which cleared far more ground than normal—struck something. He could cleave through most objects and just noticed what it was by how hard it had been. But this—
His pickaxe reverberated so hard it vibrated out of his grip. He swore, glancing at his scales; they felt nearly torn under his gloves.
“Shitting Ancestors on my head!”
“Hit your boots, Georgie?”
Laughter. He swore as he picked the pickaxe up.
“No, I hit—”
He went in gloves first, yanking stones and soil away. If it was some high-density rock, he’d hit it with his best Skill and powder the entire area, and damn the scaffolding. Then Georgie saw what he’d hit and stopped.
“…What is that?”
It was a long, broad slab of…something shiny. Covered by dirt, but when he brushed at it, the dirt fell away; it was brilliant, pale peach, and glowed.
His breath caught. Instantly, Georgie peeked around.
If this is valuable, could he smuggle it in his bag of holding? They did check, but—he brushed around the object, then realized there was no way to smuggle this.
It was taller than he was! And as dirt fell away, he saw stone, cracked from pressure, at the top of the—Georgie began digging down using his pickaxe. [Tool Utility: Pickshovel]. The dirt came away and revealed the piece of metal—he thought it was metal—running down deep.
It was a curious object. It formed a weird, wide top, like a wineglass, and much like a wineglass, it had a narrow stem and a wide base. Only, it was narrower than an actual wineglass, and Georgie, blinking, knew exactly what it was as he dug down and hit an empty pocket. Dirt showered down, and he saw…empty ground to his right and left as he stepped back from a hole.
“[Detect Cavern] just went off! Who hit one?”
That was a shout from another [Advance Miner]. The sounds of digging froze, and Georgie muttered.
“I found it. I think I found…it ain’t no nest.”
They shuffled, calling out, ready to run.
“Danger?”
“Don’t know. But I think we got what the Wall Lord wants. Or something. Hey…this the first time he’s dug down here? Anyone know?”
“How the hell should we…I think so, why?”
Georgie squatted down, and then he felt his heart racing. He had to pee again. He spoke very slowly.
“Well, then I don’t trust this thing. C’mere, don’t be hatchlings.”
“What’d you find?”
They crunched over, and he stared down.
“A support beam.”
They made noises of confusion, then came over and stopped. Like him, they knew it instantly. How could they not?
It was…a literal support beam. Just a pillar with a braced bottom and top, the kind you used in mines to, well, hold the ceiling up. Keep things from collapsing. But Georgie was used to ones made of wood or metal, but never this.
“What kind of metal is that?”
“Dunno. I could swing through steel, and it stopped my pickaxe. Just a dimple where I hit it, see? This is a damn mining shaft.”
That’s what it was. A neat one too. Not like their hasty dig; it was almost perfectly geometric, a half-circle carved through the earth, moving upwards by the looks of it. The dirt was on the ground but…Georgie muttered.
“The hell is that?”
He jumped down, and they shouted.
“Georgie, don’t be stupid! We’re calling it in!”
He ignored them. He had to see…there. He brushed at the dirt he’d collapsed inwards to make the hole and grunted. Beneath his boots, he saw it.
Pale orange. And white. Some kind of simple arrow pattern. The weird ceramic bits and pieces he’d found? His claws brushed away dirt, and a long pathway appeared before him. Connected tiles placed obsessively together. Broken in a few sections, snapped upwards, perhaps from the earth shifting.
“Someone tiled this damn mine shaft? That’s the craziest…”
He glanced around. The mine shaft stretched a long ways in either direction; the lantern at his hip barely illuminated anything. But it did catch…
“What’s this?”
Georgie strode over as the voices above him grew more distant. They were still shouting at him to come back, but he was rewarded for his daring. Because when he went down the nearly-pristine mine shaft, he found something lying on the ground.
Something he also knew.
A pickaxe.
It was long, a bit longer than he’d use, with a brassy handle with little carved runes on it, way too fancy. The grip would be absolutely shit when your hand got sweaty and held the metal; it had probably had a leather wrap which had worn off long ago. Georgie grunted.
“Must be some fancy piece-of-shit tool for a [Forem—Ancestors!”
When he picked the pickaxe up, it was too light. So light he nearly went over on his back. And the metal pick? It glowed.
A blue light burnt off the pale metal, and Georgie held up the pick, wide-eyed. He gasped as the first magical pickaxe he’d ever seen—real magic, not just [Lightweight] or [Durability] enchantments—flared to life. The handle’s runes glowed, and he stared at it. Then down at the ground.
Next to the pickaxe was a lantern, like his, but made of the palest white metal he’d ever seen. A work of art. It had a movable metal shutter, and when he picked it up…
“Doesn’t take oil. Or a candle. The hell’s this?”
It had a weird groove in the base. Some kind of slot which opened and closed. Georgie stared at it, then had a thought.
“Magical lantern. Does it take magical gems for power?”
Insanity. He cast around, then did the most logical thing possible.
He hid both items in his bag of holding. Georgie grinned. He was rich. He’d quit his job as soon as possible. He’d have to hide this in the mine shaft; they’d inspect his bag of holding for sure. Then he’d sneak back, grab it, run…
A part of Georgie felt guilty because he stole, but he’d never stolen this. A few gems? Sure. Most [Miners] took their profits back, and everyone knew that. It was how it worked.
But this was…like a Relic-class pickaxe or something. He actually hesitated, wondering if he should report it.
“Not like they’ll keep me around. Look out for Number 1.”
He reminded himself of the rules. Georgie hesitated, then he had to take the pickaxe out for a second look.
It was beautiful. Like the kind of thing a Wall Lord would use, not a common grunt like him. The glow of blue activated each time he held it. So light…but when he swung it, it felt like it had heft.
“This here, this is a real [Miner]’s tool. Someone made this who knows how it’s gotta weigh. Ancestors. Ancestors…”
Was this what the Wall Lord had come for? He hesitated again, holding it.
There’s gotta be more of this stuff lying around. Take it and go. Take it, sell it to someone—don’t know who—and just leave. Leave Salazsar, leave the south, leave all of Izril before they wise up and put a bounty on your head. Move to Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Baleros and just…
He didn’t really want to go. But hells, he was an [Advance Miner]. House Gemscale was his last company before he probably had to work outside of Salazsar, and they’d only hired him because they needed him for this job. Georgie stood there, still torn, and then he saw the oddest thing happen.
The glowing blue pickaxe head changed colors. It went from blue to red in an instant, filling the shaft with a lurid, unsettling light. Georgie instantly dropped it, but it kept glowing red in the darkness. And then he realized that his desire for wealth had made him commit the only sin an [Advance Miner] should never do.
He’d forgotten to look out for Number 1. Safety before anything else. Run, even if you see Adamantium ore in the dark. Because it now occurred to Georgie to ask a question.
“If this damn thing’s someone’s tool…who dropped it?”
There was no skeleton here, no body. No one put down something like this, and maybe the tunnel was so old that any body had rotted away. Or maybe it was still there.
Waiting. Georgie saw a light at the end of the tunnel. A faint, faint glow of purple, too far for the red pickaxe to illuminate it. He slowly picked up the enchanted pickaxe and began backing up towards the hole.
“Guys? Guys, throw me a rope—”
No response. Georgie backed up faster, and the purple lights began to move towards him. Ever so slowly. Then he saw another pair of lights appear in the darkness. Yellow. Then another pair, red.
Only a few beings had glowing eyes like that. Georgie shuffled faster until he nearly hit the support strut.
He looked up. The hole was right above him, but no one was there.
“Guys?”
They had [Dangersenses]. If they’d detected something—Georgie put his back to the wall, holding the pickaxe up.
“C’mon, don’t leave me—hey! Hey!”
He thought he heard the most distant of shouts from above. But his voice made the glowing eyes stop. Then they began coming faster. Georgie raised his pickaxe.
“Stay back!”
He had [Gouge Throw]. He had combat Skills—a lot of them. That’s why Ilvriss’ people had tried to recruit him three times for their soldier initiative thing. But—Georgie raised the pickaxe to throw, then pivoted.
He’d heard the slightest sound to his left, from behind him. The mineshaft ran both ways. He turned—and the long undead was curled over him. Mouth open, a tube of rotted flesh and teeth, like a walking worm, a salamander which stood on two feet, silent as the grave—glowing slits for eyes hollowed out of its flesh.
Its jaws snapped shut and sliced through the top of his mining helmet without any effort. Georgie had ducked. He swung his pickaxe, screaming, and the red tip sheared into the monster’s body, just as lethal. Then he turned his head.
A dead Drake scuttled down the corridor, moving up the wall as it raced at him. A Drake with eight limbs, like a spider, mutated and naked and jaw cracked open so it was all mouth. He screamed as the voices grew louder, driving the pickaxe into the wall.
[Miner’s Swing].
Darkness buried them all, drowning out the pickaxe’s light.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was really happy to go on vacation to Liscor. Nothing had been going on with the mining so far, and aside from three more cattle raids…each one bigger than normal…he had agreed that getting away from the Terlands’ possible Assassin-Golems with a visit to the inn would be great for morale.
His morale.
Selfishly, he knew he was leaving his work behind, but he had nearly been killed by a Golem. And frankly…
“Miss Marquin and the inn are allies worth the time investment. If anyone can bail us out of this quagmire, it’s them.”
It was a mark of how much they’d changed, the inn’s reputation, or just the desperation of the moment that none of his staff argued with him. Indeed, half were trying to find reasons they should accompany him.
This really is like the command all swanning off while everyone else is miserable. That thought drew Ilvriss up.
“…Welsca, put aside a rather generous budget for amenities to be brought back via Courier to the dig sites. Fresh food from Riverfarm too. Also, I have a few plans with that piping we had delivered. Alrric has the particulars. I’d like teams to begin work right away. I will be back the moment I’m needed.”
“Sir!”
He also resolved he wouldn’t be long. He’d ride hard, no breaks, talk with Lyonette, be back as soon as—
 
——
 
Salad.
Ilvriss sat there with a bowl of artful leaves arranged in a flower with an acidic vinaigrette coating the thick, but surprisingly edible, Elfear lettuce. Which grew from trees. Gaiil-Drome. Fresh, Noelictan tomatoes, sliced avocado from Oteslia, and of all things…
“Tuna? Why in a salad, Miss Imani?”
He was in Barehoof Kitchens. Not The Wandering Inn. Ilvriss loved the inn. Respected Lyonette greatly. He’d told her he’d arrive after lunch.
This was lunch. He’d put in a reservation ahead of time, and Imani had not disappointed him. She smiled.
“It’s not a salad in the sense you were imagining, Wall Lord. There’s actually some Oteslian soybeans and rice at the bottom. Green soybeans; not fully ripened.”
“Thank goodness. I was going to say the concept was slightly revolting…so what is this?”
“A Poke Bowl. I adapted the recipe from my homeland, and the vinaigrette is my own creation. It tingles on the tongue.”
“I find it both savory and incredibly tart. What is in it?”
He hadn’t ever had it before and was digging in with relish after so much damn meat. He liked meat. He was a Drake and more carnivorous than most Humans, but dead gods, had no one over there ever heard of roughage for the intestines? Imani’s smile grew slyer.
“Acid Flies.”
Everyone but Ilvriss began to choke on their bowl. He just chewed thoughtfully.
“You diluted the acid until it’s harmless? Astonishing.”
“It’s a recipe no one dares copy. I am, in fact, a [Chef of Otherworldly Ingredients].”
He blinked. Then narrowed his eyes, glanced around, and stood to applaud. His staff did likewise, blankly, until he spoke.
“Have I missed your Level 40 celebration, Miss Imani? May I buy you a gift?”
He had a briefcase of gems, after all. Imani put her hands on her hips, beaming, as the entire restaurant burst into applause. She took a bow.
“It’s very recent, and I didn’t do anything like fight my way through five Crypt Lords barehanded like Garry…”
“That’s Level 50.”
“Of course it is.”
She rolled her eyes. But Ilvriss truly was astonished and gratified.
Here is perhaps one of the first Earthers to achieve what Erin did. Her cooking will define Liscor, just as any high-level personage would. She has replaced the niche Erin left in part. No, exceeded Erin’s banal pizzas and hamburgers.
Acid Fly vinaigrette. It’s a damn industry if it catches on, and it tastes indescribable.
How could he even say it? He sat down and ate with a will as people congratulated Imani, and Palt came out to brag. Ilvriss saw the very industry and economics of a city flowing and turning around her.
If Zail understood war alone, Ilvriss understood this. Imani beamed at him.
“I have to thank you for announcing it, Wall Lord. I wasn’t going to have a party…”
“Nonsense. It’s advertising, and it means lesser [Chefs] come crawling to you. You make alliances, forge pacts, see who’s the enemy…”
She laughed, rueful, fiddling with her eyepatch, and Ilvriss fell silent, recalling that she had real enemies.
“I fear that’s the case. However, I have my alliance already. Timbor is a fine [Innkeeper] who knows the score. As for enemies—I have a few in other cities.”
“Not Miss Lasica and Rufelt, I trust?”
“Oh no, she and I are friends, and she knows better than to war with me. Because I have more tricks than she does.”
My oh my. Whatever happened to that shy young woman he’d heard about from Erin? Here was a fully grown adult confident in her cooking. Ilvriss beamed.
“Well, I have a gift for you—Welsca, the briefcase. And I may ask if you have any food for sale upon my return? It is rather grim out there.”
“I can vaguely smell it. And for you, Wall Lord? I can certainly pack some lunches.”
She teased him. Then she sighed.
“I’m even hoping to take on some more apprentices. Scale up my kitchens and not just teach classes. Just as soon as the elections are done.”
He stopped eating and glanced at one wall of the rather trendy restaurant with open glass windows. Despite the rains, there were people in the streets for a rally, and he coughed.
“May I take it you have a few candidates you’d care to win?”
Imani had a bunch of colorful posters placed against one wall, showing beaming Drakes and Gnolls holding thumbs up or posing. They had little slogans.
 
‘Cats trust him, and so should you! Vote for Elirr for [Councilmember]! District E2’s candidate!’
‘Honest smithing, honest leadership! Re-elect Councilmember Raekea!’
‘Korrge Silverfang needs your vote for Amentus district W1!’
‘Lord Raithland of 3rd District will fight anyone for your vote! Even Archmages!’
‘Lism expanded the city, lowered rent, and made a second army! Vote for the only way, the Lism way!’
 
…That last one really didn’t sell him. But Ilvriss did admire the image of Raekea with a hammer in hand, ‘forging’ a new law on an anvil, and the illustration of Lord Raithland fighting the two Archmages.
Democracy was so funny. He rather thought that of all the posters, though, Elirr had the best one. He was holding a scroll in one hand, surrounded by adoring cats and other animals.
There was something more relatable about that one as opposed to Lism with one foot planted over the trio of people that Ilvriss assumed were his opponents in the race, holding a Liscorian flag.
He coughed.
“Er, how are the elections going?”
“Lyonette’s not said? I suppose she feels like she’s out of it. Between you and me, it’s been months of smear campaigns, candidates running on anti-Human, anti-Antinium, or just anti-current Council campaigns. Lots of old councilmembers…money from the Walled Cities…you wouldn’t know about that, would you?”
The [Chef] shot Ilvriss a pointed look, and he squirmed.
“I don’t actually know if Salazsar backed anyone…I suspect we might have, but Pallass and Manus were probably the two major donors.”
“It sounds like it. It’s a close race. The Council should have never allowed a snap election, but the city is growing, and so there are way more seats up for grabs. It’ll be a council of thirteen, now.”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“Which…district do you vote for? Forgive me, I don’t know these ‘elections’.”
Imani sighed.
“Elirr’s, thank goodness. I don’t think he’ll lose. For one thing, no one’s eating at my restaurant who votes against him!”
“Is that all legal with your democracy nons—er, protocols?”
She beamed at him.
“It is when I’m the [Chef]! But not all of the current Council might survive their challengers.”
She grew worried again, and Ilvriss drummed his fingers on the table. As far as he understood it, the current Council was rather good at adapting to Liscor. If a less-helpful majority took over…well, it wasn’t his city, but he had a lot of interests here.
“If I thought it would help, I’d weigh in, but I don’t think my presence here has much power anymore.”
“You don’t need to do anything, Wall Lord. But the person who could tip scales won’t even answer the Council’s calls. Maybe it’s for the best.”
Imani was shaking her head, and Ilvriss agreed. He glanced at a crowd chanting outside.
“No more chaos! No more madness! No-tress for Councilmember!”
He winced at the rhyming. Imani nodded outside.
“That’s Lism’s challenger. He sounds fairly reasonable, but he’s very anti-Free Hive. And if you listen closely, anti-Human immigration. He wants to stop paying anyone over Level 30 a fee for working here and put a charge on new residents.”
“That sounds like it would be disastrous for the city’s growth.”
“Well, he has a lot of supporters. Plenty of people don’t like the rent being controlled or the new visitors. And the old Council had a lot of Guildmasters and money.”
Ilvriss hmmed. By rights, he should be supporting the old guard, but if it was like his father…
“One would assume the average Liscorian sees the way the city has changed and feel it’s for the better.”
Imani gave him a dark look.
“Some still hate the inn, the Antinium, the Humans, us letting in Goblins, or—it just takes one hangup and they’re against the current Council. I think they’re listening to rumors or seeing that greener grass on the other side.”
“Fair enough. This is why I dislike elections.”
“As opposed to Wall Lords who’re passed down via bloodlines?”
She smiled sweetly at him, and he decided with his newfound wisdom not to engage in political discussions. Ilvriss coughed.
“I can’t blame Lyonette for abstaining either. Though if she hasn’t visited the city, she is missing out! All respect to Calescent, but this is far better cooking than the inn fields.”
“I know. Calescent serves more, weirder clients, but I think Lyonette believes we’re still on equal footing.”
Another self-satisfied smile. Ilvriss chuckled.
“I actually told her I was coming after lunch. Heheheh. All due respect to her; I’m sure she would have served me some food she thought of as delightful Calanferian cooking! And I grant you, she has a decent palate, but I have noticed her menu’s ‘elegant’ dishes are rather banal, unlike your cutting edge dishes, Miss Imani.”
He was, perhaps, a bit too relaxed. A bit too happy to be here. Imani hesitated, and a very saccharine voice spoke from behind Ilvriss.
“Oh my, I’m so terribly sorry, Wall Lord. I’ll have Calescent dispose of our banal cooking at once.”
He froze, mouth full of delightfully seasoned tuna as Lyonette du Marquin hobbled over, and a chair was placed at the table. Welsca and the aides all picked up their bowls and vanished. Ilvriss coughed.
“That was just a joke, Lyonette. Er—”
She beamed at him.
 
——
 
Lyonette wasn’t that mad, really. Ilvriss clearly thought she was, but she admitted Imani’s new dish and Acid Fly vinaigrette were superb. He didn’t need to keep leaning away from her or watching her feet. She wasn’t going to kick him.
“So, Ilvriss, you haven’t been murdered yet.”
“Thank you for—oh, no Golems. My father sent reinforcements, and we’re now on-guard, so I have confidence in my security. Some. I truly would like help with the [Ranchers], though. Miss Colfa’s advice would be splendid.”
Lyonette blinked. She turned to Colfa, who was enjoying a Poke Bowl.
“The Lischelles? Really?”
Nerul had said, but—Ilvriss heaved a sigh.
“The Terlands might try to kill me, but they don’t slow down everything with a brawl that leaves a hundred too injured to work, Lyonette! Plus, the damn cattle raids…we rather botched the cookout, didn’t we, Miss Colfa?”
The Vampiress shrugged and patted her mouth with a napkin.
“This is most excellent, Miss Imani. As to the cookout—it ain’t like it’d have gone better.”
She switched from her elegant speech to the Lischelles’ accent so fast Lyonette blinked. Colfa leaned over the table.
“Marvus and Aronia are stubborn as goats, and my sister’s more stubborn than he is. I never expected Diplomat Nerul to sway them; the fact that he put my sister on the back foot in her own turf is amazing. You gave them things to think about; Lyonette getting slapped and you being willing to try the Highstepper gave you some points.”
“How is my injury a boon?”
Lyonette grumbled, and Colfa flashed a smile at her.
“Because she didn’t know you were cracked, Lyonette. It’s one thing for Aronia to knock another woman out cold for three days and nights. But hitting a mother who’s poor-of-health? That’s embarrassin’. Not like it’ll stop Marvus, though.”
“Can we convince them, Miss Colfa, or is it a lost cause? My father wanted to fight them hand-to-hand.”
The woman tapped her lips.
“You know, it wouldn’t be the worst idea. You have to hit Marvus before he’ll back up; he’s like his bulls.”
“Hold on, hold on—”
Ilvriss was dismayed and said so. He hadn’t wanted to escalate, and that was just what Zail wanted! Colfa clarified.
“Oh, a brawl would never work, even if your father punched out every Lischelle himself. They’d just get all the [Rancher] clans to ride over, and it’d be a ten thousand-man brawl. Even if you won, you’d only get them coming at you harder. You’re right you don’t want to escalate. [Ranchers] are mean shots, and they’ll just ride over, shoot your cattle, shoot your horses, and ride off. But you still have to push them.”
“Delicately.”
Lyonette murmured. She felt bad too, because she hadn’t been at her best politically despite being a [Princess] of Calanfer. Drat it, this was exactly like her mother’s lessons!
“We have to push them in a way that doesn’t escalate, but makes them respect us.”
“That I can agree with.”
Ilvriss nodded, and Colfa began listing things that wouldn’t work.
“You can’t beat Marvus in a brawl. Probably literally. The only man big enough to do that would be Nerul, and Marvus is a lot of muscle.”
“I’ve trained to fight for over a year, Colfa, with the finest instructors—”
“He’s got probably two hundred pounds on you. You got ten levels on him? That might do it. With a sword, I’d bet on you. Without a sword, I’d bet my farm on him. Besides, as I said, he doesn’t respect you for punching him out. It’d just stop him throwing his weight around. As for Aronia…”
“Does she need anything? Can we buy her neutrality?”
Colfa was dubious.
“She’s rich enough. The Lischelles make tons of money. She’s proud of being a northerner, and I didn’t help, but she’d never even talk to you without me.”
“Was there anything in the family, um, squabble that I can help with, Colfa? I know sibling fights.”
Lyonette spoke up. She thought she did know sisterly rivalry, but Colfa gave her a pained smile.
“It’s not like you and your sisters, Lyonette. We’re too old, too far apart.”
“Oh come now. I fight like Gnolls and Drakes with my sisters all the time.”
“Hey. I resent that.”
They ignored Ilvriss, and Colfa shook her head.
“But you’re all still [Princesses] and living under your mother’s roof, more or less. I left my family. Walked off with an outsider, cut ties—I had to, but Aronia never forgave me. She always had a chip on her shoulder, and now that I’m…not as Skilled as I used to be, I think she likes that dynamic. It’s fine. Just don’t count on me talking her round.”
She sighed. Lyonette knew it was the secrecy of Vampires that had made Colfa not talk to her family, but she had to imagine that had caused hurt feelings. She chewed on one lip.
“I just wish we could have beaten them at their own game! The Highstepper—I’ve never seen that dance or that footwork!”
She burst out, and there Colfa and Ilvriss laughed at her. The Wall Lord grinned.
“Lyonette, of all the events there, I think that one they held against us least.”
“Exactly. Lyonette, it’s my family dance. No one ‘wins’ at the Highstepper. Didn’t you see them cheating? No one can do it without practice, and the adults all need boosting.”
“We could have done that dance. It’s not the hardest in the world. The 5-Step is harder.”
Lyonette grumbled. Colfa gave her an arch look, and Lyonette realized that the country-born woman wasn’t beyond defending her home.
“Easy for a noblewoman to claim when she didn’t get a tenth through it. You don’t have a chance in ten of pulling it off now, Lyonette. Not with your condition. I can barely do it these days, and that’s with my enhanced reflex…Skills. Dead gods, I really was fit as a girl.”
That genuinely stung. Lyonette knew it was accurate; she’d barely kept up with [Flawless Attempt] with Ilvriss.
“I could…! Fine. Let’s—Ilvriss, what else do you need?”
“Personnel? Thousands more personnel if anyone would work with us. Asrira’s managing the Sisters of Chell, but calming the Terlands, avoiding being cattle-raided, finding my damn objective and securing that…”
Ilvriss grew gloomier the more he listed things out. Lyonette clapped her hands.
“In that case—I’m definitely visiting more often, Ilvriss. And we shall get you those reinforcements! Come on!”
She stood, or tried to, wincing, and Colfa and Ilvriss helped her up. Lyonette hobbled for the doors.
“I have friends to call on!”
Just as Erin could mobilize an army to quell a riot, or defend her inn, Lyonette could do the same. A [Princess] called for aid!
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice refused. Normen was out, and Jewel was watching hundreds of [Squires] training. Antinium and other recruits. She glanced back at Lyonette as the [Princess] held out her hands towards Ilvriss.
“No, Lyonette.”
“But Jewel, his objective—”
“That’s political. You can ask Normen when he’s back from a High Passes escort, but he’ll say the same thing.”
“Everything’s political—”
Lyonette tried, but Jewel gave her a knowing look.
“We fight monsters, and we defend people who need defending, Lyonette. Ilvriss is very political. Erin told Normen we wouldn’t be part of the inn, and she was right.”
“Oh come on, Jewel. Don’t make me force you. I’m serious. Don’t smile! Remember Erin? Jewel, Jewel—”
 
——
 
Laken Godart couldn’t see, but he smelled the burnt hair and made a face.
“Er, problems, Lyonette?”
“It turns out Jewel’s grown a backbone.”
She did not elaborate. The [Emperor] made a show of smiling at her and the Wall Lord before turning to Lady Rie.
“And you’d like Riverfarm to contribute to Wall Lord Ilvriss’ efforts, I see. Very well.”
“Ah! You see?”
Lyonette was instantly relieved. Laken drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“I can send five hundred at what I am going to assume are very generous rates.”
“Only five hundred? We could use five thousand—”
“No.”
Laken cut Lyonette off, rather enjoying her reaction. He turned to Ilvriss.
“I don’t know what you’re digging up, Wall Lord, but I can guess. You may employ from my lands, but we have our own…conflicts. With a number of nobles, no less.”
“Actual conflicts, Your Majesty?”
The Wall Lord was polite. He wasn’t like the Drakes that Laken had expected, but the [Emperor] still recalled the saboteurs, and the Walled Cities…they spoke to each other. What Manus did, Salazsar had probably known. Besides, he smiled unhappily.
“Reinharts, local nobles—a group has decided they don’t care for the Unseen Empire’s expansion or our policy on Goblins. You have raids? We have raids.”
Annoying ones that darted in and out of his land. [Witches] arrested abroad. He gestured.
“I have to protect my empire. Moreover, I don’t really fancy helping a Wall Lord obtain his treasures, Lyonette, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“Laken Godart, you know what he’s doing—”
Laken’s voice snapped.
“I know exactly what he wants, Lyonette. But unless he’s sharing…? No? Then there are limits to what I’m willing to give.”
He sat back on his throne and turned.
“I believe I have more pressing matters. I have a coven of witches ready to fight with each other or those idiots—Lady Rie, send them in. Handle the people who want to work with the Wall Lord?”
He ignored Lyonette objecting as Gamel showed her the door. Laken did hold a hand up and turned his head.
“One last thing, Lyonette. Do you know why a bunch of new nobles are cropping up in the north?”
“New nobles? No, Laken. Ow! Emperor Godart.”
That was Ilvriss stepping on her foot, which amused Laken. Right up until he sensed Rie’s knowing eyes on him. He leaned forwards.
“The Circle of Thorns does not appear to be entirely dead, Lyonette. That is a warning in confidence, here. I would advise you to play dumb. But coalitions are forming, annoying Reinharts aside.”
He sat back on his throne as she went still, and Lyonette exhaled.
“I can only deal with so many…I suppose I must leave this to you, Emperor Laken?”
“I suppose you must, Lyonette. And with knowledge of the fact that I am engaged in my own conflicts, I wish you luck. Unless it benefits Riverfarm, there my largesse stands.”
He paused.
“It also includes some free shampoo. Lady Rie, please issue the Wall Lord and Lyonette with some.”
He rather enjoyed their spluttering as they were shown the door. And there went two of Lyonette’s biggest backers at once. In truth, she could not even fully blame Laken for that.
She’d heard about the Reinharts.
 
——
 
Lord Gorthes Reinhart had no clue what was going on with the Wall Lord some twit was yammering about, or House Terland being up in arms. Every Reinhart was doing their own damn thing.
He’d heard Cosoi had left. Cowardly bitch. She always knew where the wind was blowing.
But Gorthes was free. And he was a simple man. He sat on his new, six-wheel carriage with ugly metal cladding reinforcing the bumper and sides. Six wheels, six warhorses.
The interior had actually very little space aside from storage. After all, Gorthes drove himself. Thus, his carriages were made for one purpose.
Ensuring that whomever crossed him on the road regretted it. A lot of the inside of the carriage was just reinforcement struts and bracing that Vultine had installed. It wasn’t even hidden; an [Obsequious Servant] had to squeeze under one to speak to Gorthes.
A word on his hiring practices. Gorthes only hired cringing yes-men who could do what he wanted or big men who spoke with their fists, like him. No women. Women told tales and were distracting.
He was sitting in his reinforced driver’s seat as the spindly idiot whispered in his ear. They were waiting outside a village near House Reinhart’s manor.
“That him?”
Gorthes was staring at a man swaggering down the street, drunk in the day, but wearing a rather rich coat, soiled from a night out. The servant whispered.
“Yes, milord.”
“You’re sure?”
“Of course, mil—”
A hand reached back and grabbed the [Servant] by the scruff of the neck. And Gorthes had huge hands. He had a slab of a face with the classic Reinhart strong nose, but little else. He growled.
“If you’re not sure, I’ll feed you to the dogs.”
The servant paled and double-checked his notes.
“I-I’m sure, Lord Gorthes.”
“Good.”
Without a word, the [Lord] snapped his reins, and the horses—warhorses all, angry as he was—jerked the wagon forwards. A few of his bodyguards, little more than [Thugs] armed well, rode after him, but only to keep up. No one got in front of Gorthes.
He was a simple man. But a Reinhart. He’d been driving around, literally running into shops, people he didn’t like, trees—once because it was an accident, once because he’d objected to the damn thing.
He did what he pleased, but Gorthes was also a product of his house. He understood one thing.
No one gets away with it forever. He ascribed to the Reinhart values, which weren’t what people thought. Snakes, they were called, but snakes who were loyal to their own, which was why Magnolia was such a traitor. You stabbed each other in the back, but you never murdered another Reinhart. Watched them sit in ruin, but never executed them.
That was her biggest sin, actually. Putting all of them in a Skill-bind for a decade? They’d take back their due, make her life hell, then get back to business as usual. But the fact she’d killed them—that made it far more personal.
Reinharts had killed each other in the past, but always it was the final act, the ultimate one. You did it when it was you or them. And that might be one thing, even, but she’d been more than that. She’d executed dozens of nobles. Maybe over a hundred, Gorthes didn’t know.
Damn her. And the other thing Gorthes knew was this. He rode faster, teeth bared, and the people in the village heard the rumble and glanced up. They scattered. The drunk man ambling along cast around, saw the carriage racing at him, and stumbled. Then did what any man would and leapt smartly to one side. Gorthes saw him turning, face outraged.
You maniac! Who drives like this in the middle of the vill—
Gorthes pulled on his reins. The horses turned right. He saw the fellow’s eyes go round with horror, saw him twist to leap away, heard a shout.
“N—”
The thump and crunching sounds made everyone in the carriage but Gorthes go still. He just slowed the carriage, took it around as someone screamed. Inspected the body on the road. Twitching.
Gorthes clicked his tongue, moved the reins, and ran the fellow over again. Slowly. Then he drove off.
You might recover from that kind of thing with only a broken something, crushed legs, or whatnot. Well, before healing potions had gone out of circulation. Unless you hit the spine.
Gorthes whistled as he rode off.
“Get me another bastard.”
He commented to the servants inside, and they scrambled to find one. Because this was Gorthes’ genius, of a kind.
He knew people hated him. You only got two shops or places people loved before they started laying out ropes and spikes. Or hiring their own [Assassins]. To enable his lifestyle of vehicular homicide, Gorthes had come up with his cleverest idea.
To be a bastard they tolerated, all you had to do was run over a bigger bastard every now and then. Hence, him telling his servants to find someone who had raped a girl and gotten away with it. Or a [Merchant] who took money out of houses being built so they collapsed and killed a family. Men who fancied they were untouchable because they’d bought the law.
He enjoyed seeing them coming face-to-face with the front of his carriage and realizing that there were things they couldn’t buy. Small men who left divots on his bumpers until he had them refurbished.
“It’s good to be free again. Drink.”
Someone passed him one, and Gorthes drank greedily. Then drove off. Two more men and he’d probably ‘equalize’ his reputation around here for a month or two, he calculated. It was all…what was the word?
“Pragmawhatsit.”
“Lord Gorthes?”
“Shut up.”
Silence. Gorthes drove. He was in a hurry, anyways. As soon as he finished running people over, he was headed straight south.
That was where that bitch with the black carriage had gone. Apparently, it was some new, fancy vehicle. ‘The Unmarked Carriage’. Pah. He’d beaten the nastiest [Drivers] in the Driver’s Guild.
“Get me three more carriages from the mansion. Load ‘em up with all the bullyboys we got. Then find me that woman.”
No one ran Gorthes off the road. It was payback time. He cracked his neck, and there was a Reinhart true to his name and nature.
A [Brute of a Lord].
 
——
 
[Level 10 Incestuous Lady!]
[Class Change: Incestuous Lady → Sharp Dame Class!]
[Level 10 Sharp Dame!]
[Skill – Lesser Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Underworld Niceties: Preferred Bribe Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Leadership Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Mathematics Obtained!]
 
Damia wondered whether it was her association with the criminal underworld that made her class go from [Lady] to [Dame]. She wasn’t sure she liked it.
[Dame] was still quasi-noble, and it was acknowledged as a formal noble class of a kind…but it sounded to her distinctly like she wasn’t even qualified by full [Lady] status, much like an esquire up north.
She really didn’t like the implication of that. Was it because her mother had all the power and she and her brother were largely ornamental?
At least she’d consolidated. That was something, and her new Skills seemed powerful. Not that she’d got them from more than surviving.
Damia jerked awake the day after their encounter with the half-Elf. She had a crick in her neck, and the Unmarked Coach had finally stopped at its destination.
“All out! We’re at Celum.”
“Took long enough.”
The two [Gang Leaders] were the only ones speaking. They were alive; the Unmarked Coach had sped off when the half-Elf had gotten distracted with the singing Goblin and driven erratically at full speed, trying to lose him in case he came back to finish the job. What a side-trip this had been.
Damia Reinhart survived her first close-call with death aside from the time she had nearly choked on that oversized grape. Her reward? Level 10, which she took. From Binevy, her new [Head Servant]’s smile, she’d levelled too.
No one else had gotten a levelup, clearly. The other three passengers. The member of the Sister of Chell’s leadership Haple, the fussy secretary; and the two gang leaders, male and female, were probably all over Level 30. The female gang leader scowled at Damia.
“Levelled, didja?”
“How’d you—?”
Damia jumped and admitted the truth after a second since the woman knew. The female leader spat as she fiddled with her daggers.
“Got an [Eye for Talent], don’t I? You just jumped up. Good for you. Always said you could level up to Level 10 by sneezing hard enough. Us? We just wasted time and maybe got on some bastard’s kill list. Wonderful day. At least we’re alive. Plus, looks like that really was a freak accident. I’ve never seen her freak out this bad.”
The crash made Damia flinch, and she drew back in the carriage. They were in a copse near Celum, within walking distance of the city. Only, the copse was getting smaller mostly because—
Karsaeu strode past Damia and the passengers disembarking, face like thunder. She swore an oath in a language Damia didn’t know and kicked another tree.
It went over, roots spraying upwards in a shower of dirt that rained down on the coach’s roof. The upset, scared Djinni was kicking down trees. She spun.
“Get out of my coach! No one’s riding. I’m going to ground, and any one of you’d be safer doing the same.”
“Fair advice.”
That was the member of Haple. She came out, adjusting her spectacles, and brushed at her scribe’s clothing. Then she nodded at Damia, Binevy, and the two [Gang Leaders].
“I’m pleased we survived. I’m sure we’ll all keep notes on whatever that was. One thing: we never met. You don’t know me. Try to use the knowledge of who I am and I will have your mouths filled with razors, then drown you in a bucket.”
The threat against a Reinhart and two powerful [Gang Leaders] should have been beyond the pale, but Damia just watched the two [Gang Leaders] nod. The male one actually saluted her.
“No trouble, miss.”
“Good.”
Those plain eyes found Damia, and she nodded rapidly.
“Absolutely. Lips sealed. What happens on the coach—”
Wham.
Another tree went down, and they decided to make tracks. That was how Damia parted with the two [Gang Leaders]; they strolled off as a group of [Riders] came galloping out of Celum.
“Boss, boss! We didn’t know where you went after—”
“Couple of the lads tried to have a word with that guy. He minced ‘em. Rotated all their limbs around, and their heads, and just—”
“You fucking idiots, we told you to stay put!”
The female leader exploded, and the male one glanced at Damia and the Haple member.
“Shut your yaps. We’re all friendly here. Don’t go alarmin’ the goodfolk.”
They still had to get into the city, but the [Guards] at the gates and the Golems barely glanced at the gang who literally just walked past the checkpoint. Damia whistled.
“That’s some anti-detection Skill.”
She had to wait in line, much to her annoyance. The member of Haple actually went through, answering the basic questions. When she confirmed she wasn’t entering the city to commit a crime, Damia almost laughed before realizing that might get her killed.
Also…it might be true. If she’s just here to manage the Sisters…how clever! In fact, the Sisters were waiting for this woman too, although her reception was fascinating.
A huge woman named Yeire, the local boss of Celum’s Sisters of Chell, was waiting with a group of six very bored women who all appeared fairly deadly. When the scribe-like woman walked over and waved a hand, Yeire blinked, then spat.
“You serious? They made us wait all this time…for a bean-flicker? Look at this, girls! One of the damn counters is here to complain about us wastin’ gold and inventory our stocks!”
So saying, she put the woman in a headlock and began mussing her hair up. Damia and Binevy were frozen with a kind of horror, but the smaller woman put up with the ridicule.
“Excuse me, let me go. I’m here on the business of you-know-who—”
“Yeah, yeah. Shut it, runt. Just give us our orders. You here to check on the group that went with that Drake? Word from Xesci is they got messed up—”
“That’s my j—”
“Okay, get moving.”
They shoved her forwards, harassing her, grabbing her clipboard, rather like schoolyard bullies. Damia kept her face controlled, and internally, she thought it was another bit of genius.
If Haple pretended to be the rank-and-file accountants like that, no wonder no one knew who they were! Then they got to see what each branch of their gang was really like. So long as they were fine being the abused underlings. Were all of them like…?
A prickle ran down Damia’s spine suddenly, like someone poking her with something sharp. The ‘bean-flicker’ never turned her head, but Damia quickly averted her gaze and stopped trying to think about Haple’s identity.
The sensation vanished.
Damia took a step forwards, drawing a breath as the bored Watch and Golems waved her forwards.
“And you are…?”
“Lady Damia of House Reinhart!”
Binevy introduced Damia, and the young woman smiled at their reactions. She’d come all this way to find a business opportunity. At least she had noble privilege on her s—
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland tossed Damia out of his city so fast she barely had a chance to argue with him. Heads turned as the red-faced Damia kicked and shouted while a Golem carried her under one arm. Primera, his repaired Golem, was striding down the street as Xitegen walked along.
“Lord Xitegen, you cannot lay a h—”
“I can and will, Lady Damia. Do remember me to your mother. Or don’t. I quite detest her. Don’t you sleep with your brother? Incest is banned in Celum. It should be. Seconda, make a note of that.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
The woman, who seemed even more animated than most Golems, dipped her head, and Damia reddened. Xitegen was not keeping his voice down.
“I am a [Lady] of—”
“You’re a child. You don’t have power here or your mother would have sent you with an escort. I’ve had enough of Reinharts in my city. Now, gate or magic door?”
“When my family hears of—”
For a moment, the Golem Lord’s eyes flashed, and Damia went still. Because she had just seen danger, and it was the same look. His voice was steady, brisk.
“They know better than to cross a Terland in Golem lands. Or they’ll re-learn. Door or gate? Last chance.”
“D-door! Please!”
Primera changed directions at Xitegen’s nod. He gave Damia a second look.
“A Reinhart who says please. You might survive longer than a year after all. Excellent to meet you, cousin. Don’t let it happen again. Excuse me. Miss Liska?”
He rapped on the door, and nothing happened. Xitegen sighed.
“Ten minute delay.”
He tapped his foot for eight minutes, speaking to his underlings as Damia hung there, and people in line stared at her. Then the door opened.
“All aboard to—huh, you don’t see that everyday.”
Liska stared at Damia, whose rear was dangling in the air. Xitegen Terland nodded.
“Good morning, Miss Liska. One for…anywhere but here.”
He produced eight silver coins, put them in a bowl, and nodded. Primera tossed Damia into the portal room, and they shut the door. Binevy hurried through after it reopened, and Liska peered at Damia Reinhart. Then she shrugged.
“Okay, where to?”
Damia stood, wanting to scream, faintly red-cheeked, people chuckling at her in line, but she kept her face controlled.
Do not make a scene. I must be allowed to work here. I will remember that.
“L-Liscor, please, Miss.”
“Okay, stand in that line. Next! Pallass!”
The door opened and closed, and Damia shuffled into line, grateful people stopped paying attention to her. Her breathing calmed, and she admired the door, the system in place here, the Gnoll.
If I had this, I’d be rich! Look at how powerful it is, how useful! This was why she’d come here. When the door to Liscor opened, revealing a rainy world past a little checkpoint with some members of the Watch ushering people through, Damia smiled.
A foreign city. Ripe for the intelligent and precocious. She stepped forwards—
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart’s head was flat on the table. Watch Captain Zevara exhaled some more smoke.
“…Are you listening, Lady Reinhart?”
She’d gotten eight steps before the Watch had asked for her name, and Binevy, the idiot, had given Damia’s last name to them. Now she was in the Watch House.
“I have done nothing wrong.”
“No, Ma’am. You have not. This is merely a friendly greeting from me. Say hello to your mother if you object. And just so you know, Miss, we will be watching you. If you break a law, we will hold you to the same standard as other guests of Liscor. Without bias. But we will be watching.”
Damia hated her mother more today than she had in her entire life. Cecille had utterly poisoned multiple cities against her. She protested.
“I have no plans on—”
“Do you want to swear on truth stone you have no intentions of working with a criminal in any capacity in Liscor? Because I’d love to have that on record, Lady Damia.”
The young woman’s lips compressed, and Zevara gave her a cool smile.
“Welcome to Liscor, Miss Damia. Do excuse me; I have crimes to solve. Don’t end up on my list. Get out of my office.”
Thus began a rather unfortunate time in Liscor, and the connected cities, for Damia Reinhart. Because, you see, the problem with being a Reinhart was reputation.
 
——
 
Banned from Pallass even though she didn’t give her name. She applied at the desk for a day-pass, and the Drake used a Skill, glanced up at her, and told her the Five Families were not allowed in Pallass.
She tried to tour Liscor, but there were some kind of elections going on, and some crowds chanted ‘no more Humans’ at her. When she went to find an Antinium, just to scope them out as potential hirelings or see about those healing scrolls, one took one look at her and ran screaming.
“Thief Lady! Thief lady! Heeeeeeeeelp!”
The Watch being there actually saved Damia; the panicked Worker had thought she was going to steal his doll or some nonsense. He’d apparently recognized her as similar to her mother. However, the Antinium were already on-guard after the Zevara incident; rumors quickly spread, and not a single one would talk to Damia Reinhart.
“That’s her! That’s the bad lady’s daughter. Don’t talk to her.”
A Worker was, in fact, running ahead of Damia wherever she went, pulling aside all the other Antinium—and their friends—and pointing Damia out to them. One of the [Guards] assigned to watch her was sniggering behind a hand. But that was…fine!
She didn’t have to make inroads with the underworld in Liscor. She didn’t need to capitalize on the Antinium and their damn new scrolls! She—she had plenty of people she’d been researching! For instance, what about—
 
——
 
It took a long time to hike out across the treacherous bridges to the village of Rheirgest. Let alone find someone in charge. They had some giant…barn of ivory that had peculiar noises coming from it, and when a [Necromancer] finally emerged to hear her out, he looked her up and down.
“Work for you, milady? I dunno. Can you raise your chin slightly? Give me a scowl?”
She stared at him. When she did so, reluctantly, the man pulled someone aside.
“Leiithe, whaddya think?”
The woman glanced over from wheeling a skeleton…affixed to a wheel…into the barn-structure. A young woman with a Solar Cycles uniform was walking out of the barn, wiping a greasy rag. Damia stared at the woman until the two [Necromancers] blocked her. Leiithe scratched her head.
“I’m not seeing it. Sure, they say the Reinharts were pretty villainous, but—”
“I’m not that kind of Reinhart! I’m very respectable, Miss Leiithe!”
Damia protested and, for once, misjudged her audience. Because the two [Necromancers] glanced at each other.
“See? And she’s got a good look. Nice scowl; I can see her going ‘off with her head!’, but I’m not feeling it. Now, our [Princess], there’s a woman with potential.”
“Oh, absolutely. She’s got a bit of that royal madness in her already. The cracks? Oh, it makes me feel bad, but the style. And give her a decade, two, and she’d be a real [Mad Queen]. Sorry, Lady Reinhart.”
They turned to Damia, and she wobbled in place. It turned out Rheirgest thought she wasn’t stylish enough. Plus, they had a project already.
 
——
 
She made it into Riverfarm and was chatting up the locals on prices and such for a good two hours before the [Lady] found her. Lady Rie Valerund smiled at Damia Reinhart, who glanced up from a conversation with Farmer Ram.
“Lady Damia Reinhart? I’m Lady Rie. May I greet—?”
Rather to Rie’s surprise, Damia’s shoulders sagged. The [Lady] raised a hand.
“Hello, Lady Rie. No need. I’ll see myself out, shall I?”
She wandered over to the door and waited to eject herself. Rie opened her mouth, then turned to Mister Ram.
“That was the easiest time I’ve ever had with a Reinhart. Do you know what that was about?”
He shrugged.
 
——
 
The Dwarf in Esthelm threw a hammer at Damia. She ran away.
 
——
 
By the end of the day, a rather defeated Damia was sitting at a bar in the Drunken Gnoll as Binevy tried to cheer her up. It turned out that even if this area was a hotspot of invention and progress…every obvious place had been claimed.
She couldn’t even tell where The Wandering Inn was. Everyone had backers or—or had established themselves! Even the [Innkeeper], Timbor, had said he was in a profitable relationship with Miss Imani, whom Damia hadn’t even gotten a meeting with, and he was well set, thank you, your ladyship.
How do I get ahead? Binevy was trying to brainstorm.
“You just need to get on top of something here, milady. I see what you’re doing. Your aunt did that too, you know. She travelled as a young woman, backed projects she saw that were good. It just takes time!”
“I don’t have time, Binevy. Nor do I have enough gold or favor with the family to bully my way into something. There’s only a few ways for me to get ahead. One’s being lucky or spotting something, but I’m here too late! Damn Aunt Magnolia, if I’d only been here two years ago or one—! The only other way is sleeping my way ahead. Do you have a list of Liscor’s eligible bachelors?”
Timbor dropped his mug as he listened in on their conversation. Binevy hesitated.
“Er…I could get a list?”
She hurried off and, after some gossip, presented Damia with a list that included Menolit of Liscor Hunted, a Lord Raithland, Councilmember Elirr who looked like he was going to win his election…Damia sighed.
Lord Mireden’s an option, but rumor is every brave bachelorette is throwing themselves at him. Small chance of me beating the pack. As for the others… I can probably do better in time even if I want to use myself in that manner. I wonder if I can find that Goblin tribe around here? She heard chatter from patrons and listened, eavesdropping in the vain hope for a clue, something big.
But sadly, a lot of the people in the Drunken Gnoll were, well, Gnolls and Humans. Some Drakes, but a lot were just passing through.
“Hrr. Brother. How are you doing?”
A Gnoll with distinctly un-citylike dress was greeting a Gnoll in a [Shopkeeper]’s outfit, who stood to hug him.
“Kert! Was the trip north long? How’s the…tribe? Can I get you a drink? A Velrusk Claw? This inn does excellent food.”
The Plains Gnoll sniffed the air, then dropped what looked like his life’s burdens next to the table. He sat, and Damia stared at him.
“I won’t be long, yes? I wish I could stay, but I’m going with more of us north.”
“Oh? Not even for a day?”
“Hrr. No. We have to get our group established. We haven’t found a good mining and grazing site, or so it seems. Chieftain Akrisa sent us as fast as we could. She’d have come herself given the Silverfangs are mostly staying with the Meeting of Tribes camp, but, eh. She’s with child.”
The [Shopkeeper] blinked.
“Didn’t her husband, er, partner die at the Meeting of Tribes?”
Kert shrugged.
“Lots of babies being made. The tribes are empty. Everyone’s doing what they can in some way or another. Is this your wife? Hello, I apologize. Kert of the Silverfangs.”
“Er, hello. Jallis Ascale. I’m, uh, Thonal’s girlfriend. We’re dating. Not ready to, um, do my part.”
Fascinating. Damia hadn’t realized Gnolls were already in the north, though of course, it made sense. They’d talked about it, and there was a lot of pro-Gnoll sentiment of late. It made sense from a species perspective too. Getting away from the Drakes would really help. Assuming the north went well, and to hear Kert begin complaining, it wasn’t.
Not much gold in Gnolls, at least as far as I can tell. Damia turned to Binevy.
“Isn’t there some stellar group of Gnolls known as Ekhtouch? Find out where they are.”
She’d been ravenously devouring the news and finding what she’d missed. Sadly…no dice. The Ekhtouch had gone to the New Lands. Damia began gossiping with Timbor and the other patrons, trying to buy drinks and be friendly.
It…sort of worked. Timbor was all-too-happy to talk to her about Liscor and the area and point her to the different Guilds where she might hire people for…a job if she had one. Not that she had one. And he himself managed to slip in there that he, a Level 33 [Innkeeper], was very single.
She sighed and rented a room at his inn, at least for a night. It didn’t seem like it could get much worse until a Drake walked around the inn.
“Excuse me, Miss? Might I have a word?”
He finally came to her table, and she blinked at him. All Damia needed was a chance. A spark! She smiled at him, being as charming and friendly as she could be, and saw him relax. He gave her a friendly smile in return.
“Yes, can I help you?”
“You seemed a bit down on your luck; apologies. I saw a few [Guardsmen] keeping tabs on you. I know it can be—hard in situations like these.”
Her heart began beating faster, and she glanced around, but the Watch had vanished or gone on break, perhaps busy or contented she wasn’t doing much. She lowered her voice.
“I, um, am in a bit of a strait, but I hope to rally. Did you want a word?”
He gave her a very polite smile, without any leer, and Binevy eyed him. She had a Pepperspray potion she claimed worked on troublesome assailants, and Damia had an emergency wand in her bag of holding, and Timbor’s inn was safe. If he wanted her to go somewhere…
An in with the underworld. The Drake fished something out of his belt pouch, handed it to her.
“I just wanted to give you a way out of any bad situations, Miss. It might be difficult, but I believe a woman like you can level and adapt.”
She stared down at what he’d given her.
A card. It said…
 
House Gemscale is recruiting [Miners] and [Diggers] now! All hands wanted; inquire at the local Builder’s Guild or with representatives in any major, Liscor-connected city! Lodging and food paid for, including transport! Excellent levelling potential; even more pay!
 
Her face went slack. The [Recruiter] went on.
“Don’t worry about the labor, just stick it out a month and you’ll be Level 10! Now, if either of you ladies had any friends who might want the job, there’s a small bonus fee I can offer for referrals…”
That pretty much knocked out Damia for the night.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin felt pretty damn defeated after running around trying to get Ilvriss help and failing. Mrsha was right about the Order of Solstice.
“It’s not that they don’t want to be political, it’s that they don’t want to be…Walled Cities political, Ilvriss. I know they respect you—”
“I understand. Frankly, five hundred workers is worth the trip.”
…But he’d hoped for a miracle. She was having him served a very classy, very modern dish courtesy of Calescent. Couscous, which turned out to be from Imani.
You couldn’t beat her. The Wall Lord was happy, though, and putting a brave face on it.
“I’ll inquire with Mrsha the Intellectual for help. And maybe watch a movie or two, then head back tomorrow morning. That will raise my spirits, truly.”
Mrsha the Intellectual glanced up from her homework.
Wall Lord Ilvriss, with respect, my advice is not one I would take. But speaking of which, hypothetically, if you had fifteen apples in a bucket, and you had seven point six such buckets, how many apples would you have? I’m in advanced mathematics and I wish to leave.
He stared at her, and Mrsha held up her homework in case he needed a visual aid.
“…Ninety-five apples.”
He turned away and winked at Lyonette. She hid a smile as Mrsha wrote down the answer. That’d teach her. Lyonette wistfully sat there.
“I just wish I could call on more, Ilvriss. I could speak to Valeterisa…”
“She might be more hindrance than help, with due respect.”
“Fair.”
Ilvriss just sat there before putting a claw out. He hesitated, then touched her hand, and she blinked at him. He withdrew his hand.
“You know, it’s fine, Lyonette. We can’t always rely on Erin’s power. Sometimes, we have to provide what we’re missing. Like the Horns. They’re a good example of rising to the occasion. It’s my turn now. I just wish I were more like my father. He’s a Swordmaster of Salazsar.”
“Really? A real, genuine—?”
Even Ser Dalimont seemed impressed, and Ilvriss hunched up a bit.
“I forgot, but he really was a war hero. I’m…in his shadow, I guess. Funny, Zel’s is easier to be in at times. He could have beaten that Hunter-Killer himself. It was ‘only’…well, I forget what class it was, and he was good enough not to say that out loud.”
“Ilvriss…I’m not my mother. And you’re plenty talented! Your holdings in Liscor are huge!”
He hadn’t even used the entire space. Ilvriss exhaled.
“That’s just business. I need to be a warrior, a leader, a diplomat…but I’d rather be good at one thing than average in all! I’m not, and this venture proves it.”
She shook her head rapidly.
“Ilvriss, I let you down. And Colfa, and Nanette!”
“Hey!”
“Hey! Vhatch your mouth. I dealt with family for you!”
Lyonette ignored them. She gestured at her skin, which she’d put makeup on, but still…hurt. Oh, Erin. And her legs.
“I can’t even—I can’t even dance right, Ilvriss. I know it’s petty, but I used to have that! Erin is not a better [Dancer] than me, for all she got the class!”
He smiled at her.
“That was entertaining.”
“It was, wasn’t it? I know it wasn’t much, but…”
Lyonette trailed off thoughtfully. Then she pushed herself up, or tried to. Ser Dalimont had to help her, and she glared at her shaking arms.
“Ilvriss? If you have time tonight, would you entertain a bit of my fancy? It might not help, but…I have something I’d like assistance with. Something only you can do for me.”
“Such as?”
It ain’t math, that’s for sure. You sure your business is doing well?
Mrsha held up a card as she glared at Ilvriss; Yelroan was teaching her multiplication. Lyonette stuck her tongue out at Mrsha. And then she entered…the inn.
 
——
 
The new inn was still under construction, with Antinium laboring over the foundation even at night. Skeletons were hauling masonry around, and the foundations were so big that a section had dried under the [Bubble of Calm] spells that Hexel had demanded, then replaced with his own Skill.
[All Weather Worksite]. The Lamia [Architect] had gained levels himself, and he was actually here supervising the night’s work when Lyonette and Ilvriss stepped past the courtyard-in-progress.
“Miss Lyonette. I didn’t actually think you’d show up. Like the inn?”
Lyonette stared at the beautiful walls that had stunned her this morning. At the inn, which rose already, faster than Hexel’s timelines.
Or rather…the wall he’d put up and about three different rooms. She stared accusingly at the Lamia.
“It appeared rather more complete from one side.”
He laughed.
“One room at a time, Miss Lyonette. The way Drevish laid this out, I can build it in sections—most likely because even he thought the budget for this would be insane. I admit, having a breakfast nook struck my fancy. And I thought we’d better get a spot for those fish before the rains stop.”
The ‘fish room’ was fascinating, and he toured the two across the rooms that were done. You could walk into the room with a huge pool and cast a line and almost instantly catch a fish. In fact, Calescent and Elia were fishing for more ingredients at that moment.
Elia nearly hurled herself into the pool to grab a fish when she realized she had company. Calescent just grinned at Lyonette.
“You should see the breakfast nook. Is very classy. Inkpaper put books up there.”
Was his diction improving? She thought it was! The ‘breakfast nook’ was indeed the same bright room with a beautiful view of the landscape. Lyonette sighed.
“Oh, it’s so classy!”
“I enjoy a cup of coffee here, myself. The Goblins love it, and the Antinium put their ‘beanbags of fluff’ over there…I’m considering working on the garden next. I think those Bush Shambler things want more greenery and with all the undead around—well, I’d say they make me nervous, but Drakes still scare me at night.”
Hexel had scars from his first run-in with hostile Drakes in Izril, and Lyonette turned to him.
“Hexel, are you alright? Truly, you work so much for Liscor. No one’s given you trouble, have they?”
He slithered around the room, inspecting the walls, before replying.
“Truthfully? Not in Liscor beyond comments and a few idiots. But I’m worried if this new Council isn’t full of…pragmatic people. Elirr is very generous with his, ah, time. I think he’ll win his election, but it’s funny how much I care about this city’s future. I know you’re staying out of politics, but Krshia has been worried and wanting to talk with you.”
Guiltily, Lyonette sat on a swivel-chair and hung her head.
“I’ll speak to her. It’s just—”
“I know. Hard to love a city that tried to burn down your inn. I’m working hard to make sure whatever comes next, this inn won’t fall. But even if Drevish thinks it was made to be his finest inn…I don’t know if it can hold off a hundred thousand Draugr. Even so, I’m proud of this work.”
That was all Hexel said. He smiled at Lyonette and Ilvriss.
“Don’t let me interrupt you two young lovebirds. And feel free to use the three rooms I’ve got built. Just be careful around the construction site; I’ll put down some pathways.”
Lyonette and Ilvriss both began denying that they were doing anything like that, and Hexel chortled as he slithered off. Embarrassed, Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“To prevent rumors, what did you want me to do, Lyonette? Just tour the inn?”
She shook a fist at Hexel’s tail.
“Nothing untoward, Wall Lord! Just a bit of exertion!”
He hesitated.
“Er, I think I should retire early. It’s been a long day and—”
Her face flamed over, and she seized his arm, leaning on him and half-dragging, half being held up towards their destination.
“Argh, shut up! Follow me!”
 
——
 
The ballroom was everything Lyonette had wanted. It had that real Terandrian feel to it, from the gable arches to the huge, decorative fireplace that had an enchanted, blue magical fire in it. Not Erin’s flames or it would have frosted the beautiful, tiled dancefloor that just so happened to have Calanfer’s sigil etched on it.
It took all Ilvriss’ will not to make a comment about Terandrian excess, and he was a Wall Lord of Salazsar. But the [Princess] was happy, and she swept around in it.
“See?”
He…didn’t see. Until she struck a pose and began doing a familiar kick-step. Then Ilvriss blinked at her.
“Lyonette, what are you…?”
“The Highstepper, Ilvriss! We failed at it! I need a dance partner who can keep up! You’re the only trained dancer I know except for Ushar and Dalimont, and they have to do their jobs!”
Ser Dalimont shot Ilvriss a glance that spoke to the fact that the [Knight] also probably didn’t want to dance with his employer, which Ilvriss got. The Wall Lord hesitated.
“Lyonette, is this to help with the Lischelles? Even if we mastered the dance, I really doubt it’d do that much—”
“What? Nonsense, it would impress them! We just need to—how does this step work? One, and two, and—ow—”
She winced, and he saw her wobble. Dalimont was there in a flash, and Ilvriss recalled what she’d said about her condition.
[Crippled Reflexes]. She was not well. That just added to his reluctance.
“Lyonette, I truly don’t think it’ll be the silver arrow to open them up.”
Plus, it seems like a hellish dance. He enjoyed dancing well enough, but the Highstepper was a showman’s dance. Designed to punish the arrogant and break all shins. Lyonette’s face fell.
“I…you don’t want to? I understand, Ilvriss. I know it’s not the most critical. I just thought—and I didn’t do well, even with [Flawless Attempt]. Funny, I’ve never failed a [Flawless Attempt] before. But of course, we can—”
Ser Dalimont was staring at Wall Lord Ilvriss with great entreaty. Ilvriss blinked at Lyonette’s truly crestfallen face, and he had a thought.
Oh. She just loves dancing. Like Erin. Only, Lyonette loved this kind of dancing, which was technical, hard. But she was hurt…he hesitated, then smiled.
“If it means that much to you, Lyonette, of course I have time. And you know, you’re right. We could demonstrate that Highstepper if we do another of those cookouts. I hate losing in anything.”
He made a show of tossing his coat off, and she brightened up.
“You’re sure? I’d hate to do it if you’re not willing—”
“Nonsense, it’s good exercise, and I do think it’s rather a challenge. Er, but maybe we should warm up.”
“Of course! And we had that splendid dance in Oteslia, remember?”
He did. He truly did. Wall Lord Ilvriss thought to himself as he walked forwards and joined her in some stretching, then conferred over the steps of this horrible dance which Ser Dalimont had found for them…this he did appreciate about Lyonette.
He remembered that dance and seeing her in Ailendamus. Her [Dance of Blessings] with that damn…actually, Ilvriss set his jaw.
If that damn Duke can dance with her, I can spare her at least a few jigs! He was all stiff without having much time to train at the dig sites, anyways. So he smiled as she took his hand and bowed.
“Wall Lord, will you do me the honor of the dance?”
He bowed over her hand.
“It would be my honor, [Princess].”
She beamed at him, and for a second, he thought of dancing with Periss in private. His face fell, but then he took a breath. Time…Periss would shake her head at him if she could see him now. But he wished she was with him, agonizing over damn Humans and trying to dig up a city of the past.
His heart hurt sometimes, but at least he had friends, true friends to fill it. Ser Dalimont produced a song crystal, and they began to dance slowly.

10.66 (Pt. 2) (2026-06-07)

Fifty minutes later, Xinthe, who had appeared with refreshments, sliced oranges, and all a [Princess] might need, poked her head into the ballroom with some reservations.
Especially about…this. No matter what Ushar claimed about Lyonette’s innocence of intentions, it looked like—
She halted. Xinthe saw a [Princess] lying flat on her back and a Wall Lord clutching at his shins.
“Ancestors! How do they do that? I think I’ve snapped something.”
“It…it’s not fair! I used to dance like that!”
Lyonette wailed. She was visibly exhausted and tried to sit upright.
“One more try! One more—Dalimont, help me up!”
She waved her arms, and the Thronebearer motioned for Xinthe.
“Your Highness, perhaps a rest?”
“Damn the rest! I can dance! Just—just get me a stamina potion! Mrsha du Marquin, stop that!”
Mrsha stopped running around the ballroom. She and Ekirra were playing soccer with Kenva, Rittane, and Visma on the other team. Lyonette scowled.
“This is a ballroom!”
Exactly, but it sucks. Calanfer’s sigil sucks! Hexel only put it there so you’d be happy. We’re gonna tear it up and put a cooler thing there. Like the Order of Solstice’s flames.
“Don’t you dare, young lady! Don’t you—ooh. Wait, multi-colored flames spiralling out of the center? I…hm…but we are dancing here!”
Ekirra kicked the ball, and it bounced off a wall, hit a chandelier—the crash made the kids flee. Xinthe slowly put down her tray and went to get a broom. Wall Lord Ilvriss held his shins.
“At least it’s exercise.”
 
[Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence Level 38!]
[Wall Lord of the 5th Rank maintained.]
[Skill – Adaptive Plumbing Obtained!]
[Skill – Fancy Footwork Obtained!]
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss got up in the night, stared at his aching shins, then walked over to a wall. He began slamming his head into it repeatedly until his neighbor, Rosencrantz, knocked on his door and asked if he could keep it down.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss supposed that surviving the Hunter-Killer, besting Ulva Terland, and his work with the dig site and the cookout had all contributed to this level.
Dancing was part of a [Lord]’s repertoire. It was just…
“[Adaptive Plumbing]? Really?”
He couldn’t meet Lyonette’s eyes as she snorted, utterly appalled. She was trying not to make fun of him, but he stared at his breakfast: poached eggs on toast, plain, for the road. He didn’t deserve anything else.
“It, ah, might have been me thinking of some projects I wanted to achieve at the dig site. And [Fancy Footwork] is a standard in many classes! It’s just—”
He knew where his heart lay! He wanted a digging Skill, a mass combat Skill, an anti-undead Skill! Ilvriss put his head down, and Lyonette turned sympathetic.
“I’m sorry, Ilvriss. Look, it was probably just an excess Skill. You get those! Look at me, I’ve got, er, [Endowment of the Thief] and I’ve never used it properly! Sometimes, you get superfluous or edge case Skills since our noble classes get so many.”
“Fascinating. And here I thought Erin was the one who wasted all her Skills and potential. You truly are her heir to the inn.”
Lyonette gasped. Nanette and Mrsha fell over each other laughing and cheering the Wall Lord. He felt bad; he got snappish when on the defensive. She delicately put a fork’s tines between one of his neck spines and levered it back. When his head rose, she gave him a cool gaze.
“Wall Lord, I trust you’ll be back on Beithday after returning to your dig.”
“Beithday? Why so soon?”
She gave him a sweet smile.
“To continue our practice. Do remember to stretch nightly.”
Then she let his face plop down in his eggs again. Lyonette smirked for a moment, then lost it when Nanette and Mrsha gave her looks.
Whoa, too far. Lyonette hesitated. Ilvriss looked so miserable.
“I just—oh come, I can’t tease? I am sorry, Ilvriss.”
“It’s fine, Lyonette. I just wish I could get something. It’s damn hard to level a [Lord] class, as you well know. But I didn’t even update my rank! I’m still just 5th Depth. You’d think someday I’d hit the 6th Depth. But no.”
“…Say what now?”
Nanette had stopped munching down on her breakfast. She peered up, and Ilvriss hesitated, then coughed.
“What? Nothing. Say, you know, I wanted to consult with Captain Earlia and her team about digging…”
He got up and hurried off, egg still on his face as Lyonette turned to Ushar. Then hurried after him.
 
——
 
Captain Earlia was a very helpful woman to talk to. She was a former [Miner] and liked to hear about Ilvriss’ woes. Not that she professed to be better than a company of Drakes from Salazsar.
“I knew the [Ranchers] would be trouble. Magic spells stop working at around a thousand feet?”
“Eight hundred. The [Geomancers] shift as slowly as someone with a shovel whenever we hit magicore. Slower, then stop after twenty minutes and complain they’re out of mana.”
Earlia chuckled knowingly.
“Checks out. We tried having [Mages] with us, but the moment they run into any stone that eats mana, they’re tapped. Pretty funny too. Some hotshot Wistram [Mage] gets called in for some noble’s project and tells us all to leave. Ten minutes later, they’re begging to have us back. Er, no offense.”
“None taken. You wouldn’t happen to be interested in overseeing any of it, would you?”
She shuddered.
“What, a project that big? We’re not that good, Wall Lord, and I like my job.”
“Damn. But if you had any recommendations—”
He was showing her the plans of the sites and talking over local rock when Lyonette squeezed onto the bar next to Ilvriss.
“Hello, Earlia, Ilvriss. Don’t mind me. I just had a question, Ilvriss, about something you said—”
“Ah, look at the time. I should be preparing to go back at some point. You know, I need to buy souvenirs to keep up morale in camp.”
Ilvriss rose and excused himself. He walked towards the common room exit and glanced over his shoulder. Lyonette was striding after him.
Well, rockmites in his stew. He really shouldn’t have mentioned…Ilvriss peered around. Then he opened the door, shut it behind him, and ran down the hallway.
“Liska, pretend I went to Pallass!”
“What? Oh, sure—”
He slammed the door, cast around, and ran out the actual door to the inn. Then he charged through the rain. Maybe she’d give up on it—
Ancestors, who was he kidding? At least it was somewhat funny. Ilvriss searched for a hiding spot.
 
——
 
The aquarium was quite lovely. It had sea anemones, kelp, and exotic fishes already. Hexel had bought a bunch as a showcase, and a fish with beautiful ‘wings’, the flying fish that could leap out of the water at great speed, was doing so now in the room filled with blue light.
An Antinium woman was sprinkling fish food into the aquarium, cooing to the fish.
“Hello, my little fishy friends. You can fly. I can fly. It is not cheating on birds if you can fl—”
She half-turned, and Ilvriss hesitated, shuffling his feet.
“I was just hiding from Lyonette, Bird—”
“It’s just a passing interest! Do not judge me! Aaaaah!”
Bird threw up her hands and would have tried to drown herself in the tank but for Ilvriss reassuring her that he didn’t judge her for her fishy dalliances. She ended up showing him the fish in the tank.
“They are quite delightful, though I think Hexel does not know which fish survive with which. The anemones have eaten several smaller fishes.”
“Ah, should we tell him…?”
“Well, he and his apprentices keep coming in and nabbing fish as snacks. So no, I do not think he cares. Would you like a fish, Wall Lord?”
“Hmm, freshly grilled with Calescent’s seasoning? Or a sushi?”
Bird edged over and put an arm around Ilvriss’ shoulders.
“I may like sushi. But this is a secret that will ruin my reputation. So I—”
They jumped as the door slammed open, and Lyonette, panting, pointed.
“Aha! There you are!”
“I was just flirting with Wall Lord Ilvriss, nothing else!”
Bird leapt up, making excuses. Lyonette halted, and Mrsha and Nanette peered in after Ilvriss. And he? He just chuckled ruefully.
“Oh, come on in. Let’s have some sushi since I think I got most of the egg on my face. In the breakfast nook? I’d like to eat there. It’s not the biggest secret around. I’m surprised Calanfer doesn’t have the same, but perhaps it’s too young or something.”
He led the way upstairs, sighing.
 
——
 
“It’s a sub-class. Or something. The world of levels has depths. If you have long-standing organizations, you get classes themed around it. Like [Knight of Gura] is a class. Salazsar’s been around longer than most—so at some point we began getting unique…ranks.”
So [Wall Lord of the 5th Rank] isn’t a real class?
“It’s a rank. Different from a class.”
Mrsha held up a card as Ilvriss munched on some fresh sushi in the lovely breakfast nook. Nanette was agog with delight.
“Mother said covens could have those, but only the really old ones! You have to have a purpose or place or—what do you get?”
“A lot less levels.”
Ilvriss grumbled. It was one of the reasons he hadn’t hit Level 40, despite all he’d been through.
Well…aside from the Meeting of Tribes and Winter Solstice, he hadn’t done that much to credit his class. He’d been low level 30 when he’d tried to take on Zel, and vastly outmatched. However—
“My father hit the 7th Rank. Which tells you how much he’s done for Salazsar in his lifetime. I tried. I’ve given to charitable causes, grown my company as best I could—it’s still part of Salazsar, so it counts—but there’s nothing like fighting in wars for your city.”
So it’s an incentive to be good and help out? Classic Drakes, am I right?
Mrsha was teasing gently, but Ilvriss nodded.
“I doubt Pallass has it anymore. Oteslia…I think they do something with [Druids]. Manus is all army. Though I think they have classes above [General], so that’s something. And Zeres uses their authority to create the Serpentine Matriarch, who’s functionally a Ruler class.”
“Right, right, but what do you get?”
Lyonette wanted to know, and Ilvriss, amused, just sipped from his cup.
“Lovely weather we’re having, isn’t—ow!”
Everyone had poked him. Ilvriss sighed.
“It’s not great, okay? It’s one Skill or Condition or even a [Sword Dance] or something every time you achieve a new Rank. Something you can only get from Salazsar. It slows levelling a bit—but it is rewarding the higher rank you are. Allegedly.”
He grumbled to himself. Lyonette murmured.
“Did Marquin have…? Is it because we’re too young as a kingdom?”
Might just be Calanfer’s not cool enough. Yeow!
Mrsha got another poke, but Ilvriss high-fived her. He snorted.
“It might legitimately be that. My father hit the 7th Rank, and guess what he got? [Company: The Lucre of Drakes]. It means every hundred thousand swings or so, someone tends to find an extra gemstone. Sounds bad, but he got it right as he was retiring and I was taking over. Alrric tried to calculate how much it’s made House Gemscale over the decades. Before that, he gained [Swordmaster of Salazsar: Diamond Cleave]. He’s never been well enough to use it. Damn, I should have asked. But it’s secret.”
“So this is a secret only known to Salazsar’s Walled Families?”
“Yep. Well, it’s not just the Holders of the Wall, but it is regarded as classified information we keep the public from knowing.”
It wasn’t that important, actually, but Ilvriss was rewarded by their beaming faces. He just sighed.
“I’m 5th Rank. I thought beating Zel would get me to 6th, but I think staying in Liscor and, uh, taking the Gnolls’ side aren’t really patriotic things to do. My best Skill is [Formation: Opulence Guard]. Because of my class. The more expensive your gear, the sturdier you are for the Skill’s duration.”
Nothing incredible. Very respectable, obviously, but…he sighed.
“And now I have [Adaptive Plumbing].”
Everyone sniggered, but gently, and Mrsha put a solemn paw on Ilvriss’ shoulders.
When you gotta poo real bad, Wall Lord, you will thank your Skill. Incidentally, do you think I could be a good Wall Lord? I’m technically related to royalty or something, but I don’t mind switching nations.
“Mrsha du Marquin! You’re Calanfer’s daughter!”
Yeah, and what’s that gotten me? Marquin’s one-breasted breastplate that Dame Ushar stabbed? No thank you. All you’ve got is an empty walk-in closet for a Skill, Mom. Ilvriss, whaddya say?
“You wouldn’t be the first Wall Lady as a Gnoll, even right now, Mrsha, and Tasilt’s son does have the 1st Rank class. So Salazsar acknowledges him. Tell you what, I’ll write up the adoption papers today.”
“Ha ha, very funny, you two—”
That did make Ilvriss feel better. Even if he wished he were even Level 40.
At least the Wall Lord had something to do all day. He ate sushi then asked the others to help him buy gifts for the camp, not wanting to go back to his mundane, boring, stinking—
Welsca ran into the breakfast nook, soaked from the rain, still in her pajamas. Which had little miniature Dragons in colored thread. Nanette instantly wanted a copy.
“Wall Lord! They dug up something major! And there was an incident at the dig s—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was running for the portal door before she finished getting down the stairs.
 
——
 
They caught Ilvriss up to speed as he rode into camp. It was a flurry of voices. It was none other than young Wall Lord Dramm who reported in, which dismayed Ilvriss until he realized all the real officers were actually at the danger site.
“We’ve sealed off the tunnel, sir. It’s some kind of mining shaft.”
“One of ours?”
“Nossir. A…new one. Infested with advanced undead. The Rubirel Guard engaged them to seal the hole and recover the [Advance Miner] who entered it.”
“Oh no. Are they dead?”
Ilvriss expected the worst; he knew the job, but to his surprise, Dramm shook his head.
“They, uh, got lucky. It’s Georgie, sir.”
“Oh, the troublemaker. How’d he make it? Advanced undead? What kind?”
“Spidercrawler, Sneaking Devourer, and an Invisible Ghoul were what the Rubirel Guard reported.”
That drew Ilvriss up short.
“Really? Dead gods! Make sure that cordon has detection spells! How’d Georgie get out of there? Escape Skills?”
Dramm was following, a bit nervous. He cleared his throat a few times.
“Nossir. Apparently, he went in when he should have fallen back. We found an enchanted pickaxe on him and an artifact lantern in his bag of holding. It appears he may have been trying to make off with some of the items. Then ran into the undead.”
“Serves him right.”
Welsca glared, and Ilvriss half-nodded.
“A hazard of the job, but if he survived—again, how? I know he was earmarked for our special initiatives, but he’s only just past Level 30.”
“Level 3…6 today, sir. Two levels from surviving. As to how, he used the pickaxe and a Skill. Collapsed the tunnel onto himself, which bought enough time for the Rubirel Guard to deploy.”
“Smart man.”
Ilvriss admired those instincts. Dramm shifted as he tried to keep up again.
“Yessir, Wall Lord Ilvriss, sir. The thing is—there’s complications. You should speak to the [Healer]. He’s under guard. The undead did savage him up, but no lost limbs, and we had to put a potion on him.”
They’d gotten some from Lyonette and the inn, so this wasn’t a huge concern to Ilvriss. He frowned, wondering what had Dramm antsy. But the mine took precedence.
There were nasty undead down there, and the Rubirel Guard themselves didn’t fancy engaging unknown undead in the dark. Ilvriss gave quick orders.
“Firstly, I want no one speaking of this. Lock down information. Alrric has [Corporate Secrets]; have him deploy the Skill until further notice. Second, we need to clear the mine and dig carefully. Do we have eyes down there?”
Osthia, under her guise as Asrira Shieldscale, nodded to him.
“We do, Wall Lord. We put a movable sensor spell down the shaft, rolled it around. There are a lot of undead. Several hundred, all pretty advanced.”
“So there were a hundred or so [Miners] here? How old?”
He glanced around, and one of his [Mages] coughed.
“Probably far more, Wall Lord. Undead combine and some, like the Spidercrawler, are the product of multiple bodies. This isn’t even a high-magic area. Some of the dropped equipment maybe gave off residue, but if it’s like the pickaxe, the magical bleed is virtually nil. The fact they advanced to this level indicates a long, long gestation cycle. And far more bodies originally.”
“How many?”
“Could be over a thousand were here and amalgamated, sir. Not much more than that or we’d see a Wailing Pit or super-undead.”
A thousand and a long time. Ilvriss glanced at Osthia and felt it.
This is it. But they had to be careful and slow, and apparently, there was one last problem.
“Sir, we went to both ends of the mine shafts. It’s an odd construction. Lots of zigzag patterns which is fair enough, but it looks like they were exploring. The thing is…there’s no exit. Nor entry.”
“What?”
He turned to one of his [Foremen], Dirr, and the Gnoll wore an unsettled expression.
“Just as I said, sir. They showed it to me, and I mapped it out, here.”
He showed Ilvriss a familiar diagram, and Ilvriss stared. There was indeed no exit or entrance.
“The mine leads nowhere?”
“It looks like they collapsed the lower exit, sir. Deliberately. Which indicates there might be something down there. If we can dig that deep…we’ll excavate it. But right now, we need to breach the tunnel carefully. There aren’t actually many ways in. There’s a lot of stone, and those supports are amazingly hard, as are the tiles. It’s why the undead never got out. That and they probably didn’t sense any life this far down. We need to clear it. I suggest we send for adventurers. Heidan the Fireball if he can make it.”
Ilvriss listened to one of his officers, then turned.
“No adventurers. This is a Gemscale operation. The Rubirel Guard will clear this tunnel with [Soldiers]. Captain Asrira will take charge. Once she’s healed.”
“Sir!”
The soldiers didn’t necessarily like the order; monsters were not the same as the foes they liked to face, who were other soldiers. But Ilvriss wanted no one blabbing.
This was it. They just had to clear the mines, and he let Osthia talk about protocols and the time it’d take to slowly weed the monsters out—it didn’t matter. Ilvriss was galvanized.
Right up until he heard the horns blow. He turned and groaned.
“Oh n—”
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle laid Ilvriss out with a punch, went to stomp on his chest, and only when two Rubirel Guard tackled him did he run for it. Wall Lord Ilvriss lay on his back.
“Well, that took the victory out of things nicely. Tell me they don’t know.”
One of his [Aides] was lying flat on his face.
“Nossir. Just a regular raid.”
“Good. Keep it that way.”
Just another reminder these damn fights were draining manpower. Ilvriss sat up and groaned as he saw streams of cattle racing away.
“How many did they get with all our people down there?”
“Er…eight hundred, sir.”
“Eight h—”
 
——
 
The provisions Ilvriss had bought to boost morale turned out to be needed that night. He nursed his sore jaw as he told Osthia to not make it obvious she was taking troops away while clearing monsters.
And now we need diggers more than ever. You’d think they’d need only soldiers now, but no, they needed to widen this shaft to bring down troops in good order, not in a treacherous single-file. They needed to open the mine shaft, then close it with speed.
Still, progress. Apparently, there were magical items in the tunnel, dropped by the [Miners] who’d starved or even suffocated, to hear the [Mages] speculate. Ilvriss had seen the pickaxe that Georgie had found. He stared at it.
This is the most beautiful pickaxe I’ve ever seen. There is nothing like it in Salazsar. Maybe the museums—but we used our old gear until it broke.
He wanted it appraised. Because he suspected the appraisal would tell him what he wanted to be true.
This was gear only a Walled City in its prime could manufacture. The City of Purity’s equipment.
They were onto it. Only, his [Geomancers] said they didn’t detect anything underneath the mines, just the mines themselves. Was this some kind of offshoot mining operation from the city? It had to be nearby.
Dig and dig more. Ilvriss’ spirits rose and fell, and he wondered if the Terlands were going to kill him. Stress.
He wanted to go back to the inn. Oh, right, stretching for the dance. At least that was fun. And he’d sent the letter for the poor boy who’d jumped in the bull’s pen. His family might have…questions. Who was he again? Oh, right.
Liuss.
Ilvriss felt tired again. And they’d nearly lost a good [Miner] on the dig. Fighting monsters would lead to casualties.
So busy was the Wall Lord he forgot about one last thing he apparently needed to do. It was only when Dramm came by again that Ilvriss frowned.
“Georgie. Right. Something was off about him? Infection?”
“Nossir. It’s, uh—it’s hard to say.”
Dramm stood there, saluting. Oddly formal. Ilvriss eyed him.
“Just spit it out, lad.”
The young Drake’s mouth worked. And he had no idea what to say.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Dramm had thought this job sucked, no matter what his father, Brilm, had said. He knew Brilm wanted to help his friend, but it was…politics. The Wall Lord had taken his eldest son aside and spelled it out for him before Dramm had applied for the expedition.
“Listen, Dramm. Ilvriss is my friend. I’ve known him since we were hatchlings. I trust him like you trust your mates. Heh. Stupid word. Look, here’s the thing. I trust him, but he’s made odd decisions. Changed since Liscor. Now, we all want to know what’s going on with this weird dig.”
“Who, Father?”
“Everyone. You just report to me. Be precise. Don’t mess around or get kicked off. Got it? Ilvriss is fair; he might promote you, and then you’d gain some actual damn levels. Just…let me know what happens, alright?”
Dramm got that. Corporate espionage was normal. He bet there were other spies in Ilvriss’ expedition who also sent word to their employers. It was obvious there was something valuable here, or why else dig? What Dramm didn’t get was, well, Ilvriss himself.
The Wall Lord wasn’t like his father said he should be. Or like other Wall Lords. He didn’t take Dramm out drinking. Apparently, he’d stopped. He socialized and was friendly, but he was all work.
Most Wall Lords quit at, like, 1 PM. Brilm did and left it to his subordinates. But Ilvriss would be at a dig site all day until dusk, which meant Dramm and the younger leaders had to do the same.
Then he put other oddities in place. Like…he encouraged subordinates to skip parties he threw, which was weird. And he hired so many Gnolls…not that Dramm hated Gnolls. It was just, why not Drakes? There were more Drakes than Gnolls in Salazsar; Gnolls had a temper and got weird and touchy.
Then had come the cookout, and Dramm had thought he’d had Ilvriss all figured out. He had been about to write to Brilm it was so obvious. That woman, Lyonette. Duh. The Wall Lord was any male Drake. Well, Humans were a bit weird, but he had that [Courtesan], only she was pretty plain for someone who was apparently high-level…
Then had come Liuss. Dramm still had nightmares about it. He saw Liuss hesitating before jumping the fence, and then the angry braying and his body going up in the air like a doll—
Everyone had thought it was funny. It wasn’t Dramm’s fault. They’d all said it. But he’d been the ranking officer, and Ilvriss had looked at him and—
Damn Humans. That haunted Dramm. But he just didn’t understand Ilvriss, even now. His father kept writing to demand updates on the Terlands and things Dramm was kept out of the loop of. Captain Asrira was a cold fish who didn’t chat with him at all. Didn’t respect his rank, and she was military, so he couldn’t make her tell him things—
The mineshaft incident should have been simple. They found the treasure. Something buried there—tell his father. Get a share of the glory from whatever Ilvriss found.
Easy, right? Only, one last headache for Dramm. And this one wasn’t even his fault! Ilvriss stared at him like he was an idiot, but then he got up.
“I see I need to witness this complication myself. Lead the way, Dramm.”
“Yessir, sorry, sir.”
Dramm marched stiffly to the [Healer]’s tent, conscious of the eyes of Foreman Dirr and a few other people on him. The Rubirel Guard, the [Advance Miners], and the officers had all seen the—complication.
They’d told everyone to shut up, but the rumors were probably all through camp. Dramm had done his best and told Ilvriss that. The Wall Lord just gave him a patient gaze.
“And the nature of the issue is?”
“I don’t know how to say, sir.”
Dramm really didn’t. Ilvriss sighed.
“Proceed. Ah, here we are. Healer, Georgie, is everything alr—”
There was a clamor in the [Healer]’s tent. An angry, shouting voice Dramm knew well and an upset [Healer]. Two soldiers barking.
“Lie down! Lie back down!”
“I’m out of here! Get out of my w—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss walked through the tent flaps as Georgie tried to tear out of the two soldiers’ grips and the [Healer] waved her hands. He was throwing fists, cursing. He turned, punched, and clocked Ilvriss in the jaw right as the Wall Lord walked in.
The same spot that he’d just been punched by the [Cattle Baron]. Ilvriss wobbled. Georgie froze, and so did the [Healer], [Soldiers], and Dramm.
Uh oh. Dramm backed up, but Ilvriss didn’t draw his sword or punch the luckless [Advance Miner] out. He just held up a claw, closed his eyes, and exhaled.
“This day gets worse and worse. Miner Georgie, there had better be a damn good reason for you to be fighting with my people. I’m glad you’re w—”
He stopped and blinked. Ilvriss stared at Georgie and saw the issue. So did Dramm.
[Advance Miner] Georgie was not well from his run-in with the undead. Despite a healing potion, he had visibly regrown scales on his ribs, legs, and the potion must not have been all-encompassing; he had plenty of nicks and cuts, numerous bitemarks. A huge section of his thigh was off-colored. Exactly the size of a rather large mouth that had eaten…
He was lucky to be alive. The [Healer] had cut his shirt and pants off, bandaged him up and been applying a poultice. Georgie didn’t look like he should be walking; his scales were very pale, not their classic green. Because of that, he was in a fair state of undress, despite the robes he’d wrapped around himself, but his punching at the [Soldiers] had shifted them.
Which revealed, to Dramm’s keen eyes, the problem. He stared at the two rather obvious things that he was pretty sure Georgie shouldn’t have.
Breasts.
And, he hadn’t seen the other bits, but it had been confirmed to him that [Advance Miner] Georgie, the annoying fellow, the troublemaker, was in fact…
Ilvriss’ eyes lifted to stare at Georgie’s face. Dramm’s stayed low. Ilvriss blinked.
“Oh, a Turnsc—”
He hesitated. And the word made the two [Soldiers] pause. The [Healer] was waving her claws, but she didn’t want to touch the [Miner]. Georgie paled, then tried to shove past Ilvriss.
“Let me go. I’m out of—”
He—she—was trying to push out. Dramm put his claws out.
“Ma’am, Miss, you’re not allowed to leave.”
Georgie snarled, and Dramm would have happily put the idiot on his ass any day of the week. Only, it turned out Georgie was actually a woman. Dramm didn’t hit w—
Ilvriss saw the [Advance Miner] punch the younger Wall Lord straight in the face. He was rather gratified to see Dramm go down in a single punch. It made him feel better. He cleared his throat.
“I think I’d like some explanations.”
Georgie turned to run and saw the entire camp eying him. He hesitated, went pale, and backed up into the tent. Ilvriss rubbed at his jaw again.
Damn, it hurt. And he felt like, somewhere, Erin Solstice was laughing at him. None of his business at the moment. He just had to say that to her face.
 
——
 
“Some clarity. Healer Chali, is Georgie’s present…condition the result of the undead attack? The pickaxe? Er, the healing potion malfunctioning in some spectacular way?”
The Drake [Healer] hesitated as, later, Ilvriss sat in his tent, holding an icepack to his jaw. Georgie was in the [Healer]’s tent with guards posted. Dramm was resting.
“No, Wall Lord. That is to say, that’s what Georgie claimed when he—she—woke up and realized I’d removed her clothing.”
“I see. But we could take them at their word—”
Chali shook her head.
“No, Wall Lord. It was an excuse. There was no magical residue on them, and the potion I applied personally. It only recovered wounds. The first thing Georgie tried to do was convince me to stay silent. Then they made up the lie.”
“So this isn’t a magical effect.”
“No, Wall Lord. They were just…pretending to be male.”
The [Healer] seemed as baffled as Ilvriss felt. He drummed his claws on the table.
“I don’t understand. It’s not like we pay based on gender like other companies. And there are female mining groups, male, mixed—did they assume another name? Do they have a criminal background?”
He was running down the list of options, but the most obvious one was the one Chali brought up.
“I think, Wall Lord, that Georgie was just…pretending. To be male.”
“Why?”
“I don’t know, sir. But they’re very clearly ill. I can refer them to a sanitorium in the Walled Cities, and I know Wall Lord Dramm ordered everyone to keep silent, but I heard the [Soldiers] talking.”
Ilvriss sat there, stumped. He was trying to wrap his head around this one.
“But why would someone want to pretend to be a man? I mean, what’s the point? Is that—that’s being a Turnscale. I think. Is that being a Turnscale?”
He didn’t actually know. Ilvriss thought he knew what Turnscales were. Erin had told him, and he wasn’t an idiot. It was when two male Drakes or two female Drakes…you heard about [Soldiers] going crazy during long deployments, but you’d crack down on that hard.
Only, according to Erin, he was on the wrong side of that line of thinking, and she had asked him, to his face, to help with their rights and equality. And he’d agreed, but thought…
Damn it. Was she laughing at him? It wasn’t very funny. Ilvriss had the City of Purity to dig up, but somehow, he was dealing with this.
“Advance Miner Georgie found the mineshaft I believe I wanted at great personal risk. He mitigated that by possibly stealing—”
“She, sir.”
Chali interrupted. Ilvriss paused.
“Right, she. Either way, Georgie is also under investigation for theft! I imagine this is more pressing than the Turnscale business?”
He turned to the [Healer], and her lips compressed.
“I can’t speak on Georgie’s record with the company, sir. But I can refer them to the sanatorium. As a [Healer], it is a matter of moral decency.”
“The thefts?”
“Them being a Turnscale, Wall Lord.”
“Ah.”
He stared at her. Ilvriss glanced down at his feet. The City of—he nodded.
“I’ll consider my next course of action, Healer. As Dramm ordered, keep quiet about this.”
She bowed, appearing uncertain, and he rubbed at his forehead. Ilvriss had no idea what to make of all this, so he sent for someone who thankfully was an expert, or so he hoped.
 
——
 
Xesci heard out the vaguely convoluted string of events and sat there, cross-legged. They’d had to pull her from the brothel where she was working.
Baffling to Ilvriss why anyone…but she was in a Gnoll’s body today, rather short for one, with jet black fur. She sniffed.
“This place stinks. It’s gotten worse since you dug that mine shaft up, and not just the undead. They’re actually pleasant by comparison.”
“Xesci, please. I need consultation. What do you make of all this? Could it be a magical effect? The City of Purity?”
She blinked at him, then bared her teeth in a toothy smirk.
“What? Oh, that’s simple. Georgie’s just a man.”
Ilvriss relaxed and stood up.
“Ah, so it was a magical effect. Perfect. Do you think it was the pickaxe or—?”
“He’s a man trapped in the wrong body. He always was.”
Ilvriss sat back down. His head began to ache.
“I don’t follow.”
The [Courtesan of Change] stretched her back out, sighing.
“Nothing in your life would help you with that, Wall Lord. Ancestors, I hate this conversation. Let’s see if you can keep up. Georgie’s a man.”
“But she—”
Xesci wiped at something in her nether regions, balled up a wad of cotton, and tossed it at him. Ilvriss dodged with a shout.
“Xesci!”
“You were doing well, Wall Lord. He’s what he is. I recognized him in a moment, of course. I can always tell with Turnscales. I make them very uncomfortable and worried. They’ve tried to assassinate me before. I try not to take it personally.”
She was always like this. Too calm, too odd, but in this case, Ilvriss had to bark back.
“Xesci, stop—cleaning yourself and make sense of this!”
She shot to her feet and growled at him, hackles rising.
“I just did. Whoops, sorry, temper. This body’s all fire. It’s simple, Wall Lord. Imagine that this pickaxe here was enchanted. You pick it up, you switch genders. Wall Lord Ilvriss becomes Wall Lady Ilvriss. Very demure, same scale coloration, but I imagine you’d probably wear heels.”
She waved the pickaxe at him. Ilvriss eyed it. She held it out. He didn’t take it.
“That’s not the effect. Correct? We haven’t had it appraised—”
Xesci rolled her eyes.
“Ilvriss, it doesn’t do that. But imagine you picked it up. I imagine you’d be unhappy with that change.”
She eyed him.
“…You probably would be. Some take to it.”
“Are there spells like that out there in point of fact or—?”
“Oh, absolutely. You run into all sorts in my line of work. I heard an old Face of the south say they used to use that on other Drakes. Obviously, because to them it was worse than death. But the blood feuds got so bad over it—”
“Wait, wait, wait. This kind of thing is normal?”
Ilvriss couldn’t believe that, and Xesci hesitated. Her tail lifted, and the tip pointed down until she traced a figure eight on the floor in front of them. Ilvriss stared at it. He’d never seen any Drake with as much tail control as Xesci. The [Courtesan] frowned.
“No, not normal. I just ran into it now and then. Three times in my life feels like a lot. There’s a Skill, artifact, or just tonic, and it changes someone’s life forever.”
“But it’s not around any more? Or was that some alchemical recipe passed down…?”
“No, the materials were lost apparently. And, well, if someone finds the artifact that does it, inevitably it goes missing.”
“Why?”
She smiled, briefly at him. Her voice kindly, as if it were obvious.
“Because someone takes it and vanishes. The curse to other people is something that one person will do anything for, Wall Lord. But we were speaking of how it feels. So…imagine how it would be if you were hit by a potion that turned you female. What would that be like? What would you do?”
Ilvriss tried. He didn’t really want to.
“Unpleasant. I’d search for a cure. Where is this going?”
“Well, imagine someone handed Georgie that pickaxe when he was a baby, right when he was born.”
“But no one did—”
“Imagine it, Wall Lord. Use your head.”
He did. He credited his Erin-experience with that and being able to yank himself out of just the standard incredulity or confusion of a moment. Ilvriss rubbed at his temples.
“Alright. I see it now. But how did Georgie know…?”
“He knows because he knows himself. So would you.”
“Even as a child?”
“If someone put you in a dress, made you play with girls, or told you to kiss other boys when you really wanted to—”
“Alright, alright, I get it.”
Ilvriss sat back down and stared at the ceiling. He muttered.
“So that’s also what being a Turnscale is? I see why Healer Chali and Dramm were so upset.”
“Want me to throw something else at you?”
Ilvriss raised his claws rapidly.
“I see why they’re upset! It flies in the face of Drake culture, Xesci. I, personally? I’m rather more invested in Georgie being accused of theft! The City of Purity! If I’m really, truly honest? I don’t care. I have bigger gems to mine!”
He snapped at her and braced for her to toss something unmentionable at him, which would ruin his entire day if he was hit despite the discovery. But Xesci just sat there and smiled wearily.
“If every Drake shared your point of view, Ilvriss, I think Turnscales would be a lot happier. Where’s Georgie now?”
“In the Healer’s Tent. Why?”
“Under guard?”
“He tried to run away and punched me. And the theft.”
“Good. No one will try to kill him tonight. You’d better let him run or figure out what to do. You don’t have long.”
The Wall Lord sat up slightly. And there it was. He recalled the panic on Georgie’s face when he’d seen the camp. He recalled Erin’s warnings.
“They wouldn’t…”
“You think they wouldn’t beat him to death? Maybe not in this group, Wall Lord. You act like you’ve never seen a Turnscale getting lynched or tossed off the walls.”
She eyed his face.
“…Well, maybe no one’s done it, high as you live up there. And I imagine Salazsarians in the Walled Families handle things internally. Poison or being locked up in a sanitorium. You do like your institutions in the City of Gems. One for the elderly, one for anyone you think is crazy.”
“The retirement homes are so they’re cared for and happy.”
“Oh, sure. A bundle of happiness up there.”
Every time he talked to Xesci, she threw him. Mostly because he wanted to argue with her based on what he believed or had been taught the world was, and he had a sinking suspicion she saw the world more clearly than he did.
She reminded him of Erin, but older, more experienced, and way crasser about sex. Ilvriss sat there.
“I don’t understand. No…I feel uncomfortable, Xesci. Don’t throw things at me.”
“I won’t if you’re honest. Tell me what you’re feeling.”
She watched as he sat, not squirming, or rather, most of his body. But his tail was making weird squiggly shapes. It curled up again and again on itself as Ilvriss pulled a face.
“Two Drakes kissing each other who aren’t…it makes my scales itch. Georgie? I don’t get it. It feels wrong. It feels like I shouldn’t stand for it, but that’s much the same feeling I used to get about, well, Nerul. Anyone who objected to Salazsar going to war a traitor.”
He remembered that. The Wall Lord turned to Xesci.
“Anyone who wanted to be friendly with a Human a fool. Then Zel told me I was an idiot. He wasn’t the first one, you know.”
“It wouldn’t have worked the first time. Tell me. Who was your first?”
She cupped her chin in her claws, genuinely interested, and he hesitated.
“Wording aside—it was my friend, Tasilt. He married a Gnoll. We fought about it, and he punched me in the face. The first time he ever hit me like that. I wasn’t a good friend, but I continued to associate with him, and I saw how he was treated. I think that…then there was Alrric, a Gnoll who was unquestionably the best at what he did. And I suppose, by the time I met Periss—she didn’t challenge me aside from being my junior. But her parents were mixed-species. One a Gnoll, one a Drake. That would have been enough for some Drakes to avoid associating with her, or even hiring her. But I fell in love. These are not big things.”
But it had changed him, even among Wall Lords, even though he’d been as hidebound and arrogant as many. In a way, it relieved Ilvriss.
It was not just Liscor. Even if that had been a catalyst. He twiddled his claws.
“Nevertheless, it feels like a lifetime of being a fool and feeling things are wrong only to realize you were the wrong one after all. The feeling’s not always right. The feeling is just what I think I should feel, so I’m receptive that I can be wrong. But it still feels…”
The Wall Lord shuddered, and he couldn’t help it. Xesci peered at him and spoke cautiously.
“Wall Lord, you’re rather courageous. You want to fight the Necromancer himself, and you’ve shrugged off a Terland assassination attempt. You are less bothered about that than this.”
“I’m hardly happy about either.”
He tried to smile, but she tilted her head at him.
“Your feelings about Georgie shouldn’t matter. Treat him like an annoying, thieving [Miner]. But perhaps understand why he steals and has a bad reputation. I imagine he bounces from company to company. Especially if someone begins eying him sideways. You can’t build a life if you’re always worried about being found out. Well, unless you’re Alrric.”
The Wall Lord froze.
“Is Alrric a—?”
“Doombearer.”
Ilvriss unfroze. Sat down, then laughed. He brushed at his forehead.
“Dead gods, Xesci! Is that all? Wait, really?”
She shrugged.
“I don’t tell secrets, but you did employ me to find the Necromancer’s minions, so…”
Ilvriss rubbed at his forehead.
“Actually, that makes…there are clues. Mountain’s riches, you’re incredible Xesci. And terrifying. You haven’t told anyone else, correct?”
She shook her head, and he steepled his claws.
“Don’t tell anyone. I’ll honor his secrecy. Alright, I see Georgie’s concern, especially in light of the danger. Do I have the facts?”
She tilted her head. He watched her tail before realizing a Gnoll’s tail wasn’t as adaptive, but she sat so still he couldn’t read her. As good as Nerul with her body. Xesci spoke slowly.
“I think you don’t understand just what it’s like to be a Turnscale, Ilvriss. More danger, more fear, more…pain than you think.”
“Well, I’ll have to settle for you educating me. There’s no other frame of reference I have. I’ve never met a Turnscale. I mean, unless there was one in hiding?”
He turned to her, and she raised her eyebrows.
“No one, really?”
For just a second, Ilvriss wavered, and he thought of Navine. Hadn’t Xesci said…? No, she’d said two female Drakes. Navine had always been a rebel and someone who tried things. It didn’t mean she was—
Not that he was about to disown her. You heard stories of Drakes on campaign in all-male regiments getting a bit desperate. The same for Zel; Ilvriss had never seen anything, and the Drake himself had never brought up any of the scurrilous allegations you heard in private. Ilvriss stuck to his crossbows.
“Not definitively, no. Certain behavior? Perhaps, but that’s a serious accusation—er, I don’t care to point claws! So, no!”
Xesci’s eyes narrowed as Ilvriss blustered.
“Do you want me to tell you? Because I don’t think I should. Alrric’s a dangerous man, even if I think he’s fairly loyal to the company so long as he thinks you’re not anti-Doombearer, which is why I brought it up. Turnscales you don’t need to know about.”
He bit his lip.
“Fine, fine. Don’t tell me. I’m just curious.”
“It would shock you.”
Now he sort of wanted to know. The Wall Lord frowned at her.
“Just give me one point of reference like—Georgie. Or just a Drake who likes other Drakes of the same gender, Xesci. So I understand.”
She thought about it. Then smiled mischievously at him.
“Sure, Wall Lord. Me.”
He blinked.
“You? But—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, I hinted to you once I can literally change genders. I am what some Turnscales dream of. What some would be in horror of, just like you might be. I’ve had clients of every species, every gender. If I’m not a Turnscale, then who?”
Ilvriss’ mouth fell open at her obvious statement. And it was true, but his scales didn’t do that prickling thing. He even checked his tail, and it was just naturally lying there. Xesci was just…the [Courtesan] who became people.
“It doesn’t feel the same.”
“I’m higher-level, true, but I’ll kiss a woman for you. If Captain Osthia volunteers, I’ll do a full demonstration.”
“I think that’s not necessary. Darn. I still can’t wrap my head around it.”
He muttered, and the [Courtesan] eyed him, then leaned over the desk.
“Want to experience it?”
Ilvriss’ tail got up and hid around the corner of his desk. He leaned back ever-so-slightly in the face of her wide and suddenly interested smile.
“How do you mean?”
“If you’re curious, I can be a very explicit guide. Any way you choose. There’s all kinds of methods, and as I said, I’ve had plenty of clients who are Turnscales who needed help. Want me to try and play someone you could fall in love with? Or a situation where you figure out a different side of—”
He jumped up.
“Nope! Thank you, Xesci. I think we’d better figure out Georgie’s situation now.”
“Coward.”
She relaxed, appearing disappointed. Ilvriss leaned on his desk.
“…Just one last question, Xesci. I can’t just address the thievery, give Georgie a bonus for the mine, and sweep this under the rug, can I?”
She regarded him, and he knew the answer before she shook her head.
“I’m sure he’d like that. But it’s not Turnscales, it’s your people who won’t let it lie.”
He sighed.
“I was afraid of that.”
 
——
 
In the end, Wall Lord Ilvriss issued a simple proclamation on Georgie’s situation and marked this as a matter for his personal attention.
It had to be him; Welsca was clearly uncomfortable. Dead gods, Osthia didn’t want to really talk about it. When he asked her input, she began talking about the mine. Which made Xesci call her a coward, and the two nearly fought.
Given concerns for Georgie’s safety, which was an issue, Ilvriss thought the easiest answer was…a compromise. He put out notice that Advance Miner Georgie had fallen victim to a curse rune upon entering the mines.
Which Georgie shouldn’t have done, and there was the matter of perhaps him trying to pocket some reclaimed items; they’d found the two tile shards in his boots too. Dramm had apparently turned out the [Miner]’s things and found only that. Nothing out of the ordinary.
The upshot of all this was that pending his recovery, Georgie would be assigned to a female [Miner] team, and Ilvriss hoped that’d hold.
Again, he sort of had the undead mine, Lischelle raids, and Terland Assassination Golems to attend to. But he knew it’d come back up.
Just…
Dead gods. He audibly complained to Xesci as his subordinates filed out of the room.
“It’s just damn sex and gender, and I understand people being sensitive to it, but we have bigger issues, Xesci!”
“So says the Wall Lord who hasn’t had any for over a year.”
Welsca walked into a tent pole, and Ilvriss pointed at her.
“Do you mind? Can you turn it off?”
“I think it’s ordinary, banal. Not worth making a big deal about since I do it so much. You’re the ones who get all precious about it. I think it’d take your mind off things, but don’t snap at me, I can tell you’re traumatized.”
She stuck her tongue out at him; she’d become a half-Elf that looked suspiciously like Ceria Springwalker. He glared at her.
“You’re not using the faces of famous Gold-rank adventurers for your clients, are you, Xesci?”
She froze, creeping away, and hid her right hand in a pocket.
“…No?”
“Banned. I put my foot down on that.”
“You can’t ban—”
“It’s disrespectful. Ceria’s a friend.”
“Oh—fine. I won’t do it. But there are still wigs for a reason!”
She stormed off. Ilvriss put his claws over his face. Welsca hesitated, and her tail drew amazing patterns on his rug that Ilvriss eyed. She wavered for a good half a minute and then coughed.
“Sir, if you wanted t—”
“Out, thank you.”
She left. Ilvriss was dying to go back to the inn suddenly. Dancing. Dancing was nice and simple and only made you want to amputate your legs when the Highstepper gave you a leg cramp. Lyonette was doing far better over there, he was sure.
 
——
 
Krshia Silverfang brought a bunch of election posters when she came to The Wandering Inn to meet with Lyonette. The [Princess] stared at the one with Lism on it.
“You can’t put those up in the Portal Room, Krshia.”
“Lyonette, please, it’s a close race!”
Krshia Silverfang had a little team of followers, all Gnolls, who shuffled to one side, staring at Lyonette as if she were a Hydra. She didn’t know them, or their classes, which seemed to be [Aide], [Policymaker], [Bureaucrat]…
New classes for a new city that actually needed people to keep up with so much work. It felt weird to her. She didn’t know this Council that had campaign flyers.
She didn’t know Krshia anymore. The Gnoll who’d called her tribe-sister once…was a stranger.
It had been a long time since the Gnoll had visited. Now, instead of her usual outfit—a [Shopkeeper]’s light clothing mixed with some Plains Gnoll style—she wore a vest and undershirt, spelled to keep her cool with all her fur, and long pants with Liscor’s crest on it.
She looked like, well, an official. The kind Lyonette might have seen in Calanfer’s wide diplomatic core. The [Mayor] of a city. She even came into the inn differently.
Awkwardly; she’d been here before with Lism and Zevara whenever an incident occurred, but as a guest, a friend?
Seldom. She’d been busy. Lyonette hadn’t visited her or Zevara as much and felt bad about that, but now, Krshia walked into the inn after exclaiming on being ‘shown’ the door, and it was different.
“Ishkr, Nephew. How are you? We never see you in the city, yes? Unless you’re just skating around for fun. Plenty of young Gnolls want to learn from you, and it’s not just us old ones wanting to set you up! You should come by and let us feed you! And Bird, hello. How is, er, being female?”
She came over, hugged Ishkr, and then shook Bird’s hand. Bird jumped as she hesitated over a bowl of hard-boiled eggs.
“Hello, Krshia. It is alright. I am resenting muchly the fact that there are differences. Mostly in how I am treated. Biologically, it feels very similar.”
“Hrr. Er, well, I’d love to have you over for tea sometime. Calescent, yes? And Adventurer Arcsinger…”
She knew them. She was familiar enough to joke with Calescent, to admire Sticks’ new stick he was waving around, and the Antinium she was completely fine with. It just felt odd to Lyonette, who was watching her, because Krshia was introducing herself. Shaking hands.
And, Lyonette couldn’t help but note, she’d zeroed in on the people with the highest levels first. Nothing she did was wrong, but the staff and guests of the inn felt it. Valeterisa practically vanished the moment she saw Krshia going around with handshakes.
“I’m sorry, must be going. Building magical academies and whatnot.”
She flew out the window before Relc ran after her. He had to cut the water to run on it.
“Valley, Valley, wait! I packed you a lunch that Calescent made!”
“You did?”
She came back, wide-eyed, and kissing ensued. Krshia, meanwhile, seemed to pick up on the staff eying her. She hesitated, then apologized to Peggy.
“I must still be in elections-mode, yes? I’ve shaken half the city’s paws it feels like. Er…I brought gifts!”
Snacks and trinkets from her store. Some figurines, including one of Bird that the Antinium promptly threw out the window. She followed it, vowing to get royalties or get even. But again—
Lyonette saw it.
The Krshia of old wouldn’t have come in shaking paws. She’d have greeted people less, actually, but just chatted with them whenever she had a moment. Asked them how things were and had a longer chat, for an hour or two, even, as fancy permitted. If she brought gifts, it’d just be some silkap to share. Or a trinket she was selling. Something nice, easy to please.
This Krshia felt like she was on a timer and that if you got forty minutes with her, great. But it was forty minutes of her time she was allocating to you. Lyonette got it.
But it still made them strangers. Because when Krshia turned to her, the Gnoll stopped, then adjusted her clothing.
 
——
 
“Sorry, Lyonette. You just…intimidated me a bit there.”
“Me?”
Krshia blinked at Lyonette again, then averted her gaze as she sipped at some tea. Lyonette was having coffee. Another change between them, if small.
“Something about your presence is rather more impressive these days. My [Political Instincts] were telling me you could make or break things for Liscor. I know it’s just our classes. [Princess] versus [Councilmember]. The inn looks fine.”
“We don’t have much business, but I’ve been pursuing ventures abroad. Calescent’s bored, but he can do fancy stuff like this latte.”
He’d been trying to do designs with milk and foam, but he didn’t have much artistic sense. He’d done an arrow in milk. Lyonette sipped at it, and Krshia sighed.
“So many people like drinking your bean-water, like Lism. It’s got no elegance, yes?”
“It’s better than drinking mild leaves. Or roots boiled in mud! Do you want some actual caffeine, Krshia? You could need it!”
Lyonette jabbed back, and Krshia blinked, then turned her head.
“Hah! Very true. I could try a cup, yes?”
Silence. Lyonette sat there as Sticks hurried over with a cup and then saw Krshia take a sip, politely grimacing. When the Gnoll looked back at Lyonette, the [Princess] said it.
“Krshia. Your class is eating you a bit.”
The Gnoll woman froze mid-sip, and Lyonette just eyed her. The Krshia of old wouldn’t have backed down from her anti-coffee position. All Lyonette had done was jest with her and she’d folded.
Why? To be polite? Because she wanted Lyonette’s help and a small concession won a big one? Because Lyonette’s class was overpowering her?
Lyonette didn’t know, but all the reasons weren’t the ones that she could have ascribed to the [Shopkeeper] she’d known. Krshia put her coffee down and took a breath.
“I deserve that, I suppose.”
“It’s not an accusation, Krshia. It’s…I’m sorry, but you’ve changed a lot.”
“My sister and other Silverfangs new to the city remind me of that nonstop. It’s been a year, a long year of trying to lead Izril’s fastest-changing, fastest-growing city, Lyonette. I’m sorry if I’m being political. Thank you for meeting with me. I have been asking, but I didn’t want to push. And my class told me to push.”
Then Lyonette felt bad. She linked her fingers together, sighing. Gazed at them.
“Krshia…no, you know why I don’t want to bring the inn into this. I’d love to know how you’re doing, but I realize this is stressful. I still don’t want posters in the Portal Room; it reminds people we own it, and that puts Liska in danger.”
“Fair, but if you were to say something, or we could borrow Ishkr—he’s very popular with young people, you know. And Wishdrinks, Timbor’s inn, plenty of people would all chime in with just a single endorsement—”
“Of who? You? You don’t need help, Krshia! I’ve followed that much of Liscor’s elections!”
Lyonette interrupted, smiling. She beckoned, and Xinthe had a list of candidates and faces for Lyonette. She lifted a page, eying it critically.
“You’re up against ‘Mama Vala’ for your district. There’s also Rubige, a Gnoll challenger, and Tolla…but they don’t have a chance. Of the three, Tolla’s probably the only genuinely independent challenger. Rubige and ‘Mama Vala’ are both backed by the old Council, angry [Landowners], and the Guilds. ‘Mama Vala’ runs the Jeweler’s Guild. Eternal Throne, I hate her nickname.”
Krshia grumbled.
“You do know what’s going on! I hate it too. She’s styled herself as some sweet, caring woman when she voted for plenty of laws that kicked Liscorians out of their homes who couldn’t make rent…right when we first moved in. But not everyone knows or remembers that; she was an old Councilmember, and she put a lot of gold into her campaign. Gifts for citizens, a new park—”
“She’s still second place to you by a huge margin. Darn, I wish we had numbers.”
Krshia’s ears perked up.
“Numbers? Of what? Who’s voting? The election is the only time we’ll know, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] sighed.
“My father has more complex ways to obtain data. It’s some weird system with [Bards] who go around conducting surveys. Then you do some math to account for all the people you didn’t talk to and you can, uh, what’s his favorite word? Extrapolate how people are feeling and put it into numbers.”
Calanfer was one of the most advanced, politically savvy nations in the world. Krshia blinked and leaned forwards.
“If only we had that—! I’d pay a fortune to know exactly how we were doing, Lyonette! We just have to use [Gut Sense], [General Census], and so on! And [Gut Sense] doesn’t work if someone had indigestion!”
A rather bored [Mathematician], who’d stopped working on his grand project at another table, blinked. Yelroan perked one ear up, then began scribbling notes. Upon such little moments, great and terrible things were created. Yelroan fancied he could sell this to most democracies or savvy kingdoms who appreciated this kind of thing. He never had the time to do this kind of thing in Plain’s Eye, but here he was all independent projects. This sounded like fun.
—Lyonette and Krshia paid no notice to the rogue [Mathematician]. The [Princess] was arguing with Krshia.
“There’s no need to back your election, Krshia! You’re going to win! So’s Elirr, so’s Raekea! Mind you, I see your concern about having to fight to keep a majority of people like you, but there are strong candidates battling it out in other districts! Like the four new seats in 3rd District!”
She pulled up another candidate poster.
“Guildmaster Okr, ‘Building a New City for Tomorrow’! Not a bad slogan, but he could do better…but he’s the Mason’s Guild’s Guildmaster!”
“Yes. We’re a bit worried about him. He’s not running with us, or the old council, and he doesn’t want to chat. Well, that makes sense; anyone even seen to talk with us gets called a traitor or has a huge crowd outside their door. It’s gotten nasty. Some fights in the streets over the election. Lots of skullduggery. We had some idiot break into my shop, either to burn it down or…”
Krshia sighed, and Lyonette winced.
“I wouldn’t know about anyone burning down your shop. Terrible. Um, but Okr’s not an issue, Krshia.”
“You think so? He’s a Guildmaster, and they’ve mostly united around taking us down. Alonna’s been fighting to keep her place as Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild; Wistram’s pressuring her, and she’s admitted her loyalties are conflicted.”
Lyonette sighed.
“Of course she is. Well, I can’t speak to that, but the Mason’s Guild is largely independent. Pallass might pressure Okr, but they can’t do much. Why, you ask? Because he employs Antinium. He has to, and he’s built the city up with Hexel. If anyone’s going to be pro-Human, pro-immigration, pro-change, it’s him! And good luck beating him! I imagine the old Council thinks they have a shot, but his buildings are very well made and there are few problems. Citizens will remember that and know he’s kept prices down.”
Krshia brightened up.
“That is good to know. Well, we do have hopes to keep a majority, but if you’d just—just one or two statements, Lyonette? Even a quote?”
“But you’re not going to lose, Krshia.”
The Gnoll woman bit her lip.
“No. But Lism might.”
Lyonette du Marquin blinked and shuffled through her papers. Krshia was in a fairly Gnoll-heavy district in the new map they’d drawn up. Hard to beat especially since she had her people on her side no matter how much ‘Mama Vala’ worked.
Lism was in a far more traditional part of Liscor. Yet he had a lot of adherents; she remembered the last election. But when she eyed his competitors…
“Three old Councilmembers?”
Krshia nodded miserably.
“It’s not just his competitors running stronger races. Lism, ah—he’s had pushback from his people. He was very anti-inn, you recall? Anti-Antinium?”
“Right. And he’s…oh dear.”
Lism had done an about-face of sorts when he’d gotten into office. Or rather, he’d taken his vehemence against Antinium, against the Erins and Humans of the world, and turned it on his true opponent: people charging too much rent. He’d pushed through plenty of initiatives Lyonette liked. Expanding Liscor’s services for the elderly or those in need, like the orphanage. Incentivizing people to come from cities like Cellidel, backing Olesm and the war against Hectval—
But she could see how he’d lost the very people who’d voted for him. Krshia elaborated as Lyonette winced, studying his less-than-stellar poster.
“He’s gained supporters as well as lost them; people aren’t blind, and they see how the city’s improved. But he’s having trouble because he’s, well, Lism. He has to brag and claim he’ll do something amazing, and he’s running into plenty who claim he’s a sellout. In truth, it’s the new Council who’s the real problem. Us. Me. He ran against us so hard people think he’s sold out and joined us.”
“Not exactly far from the truth, even if it’s more like you all teaming up to take on the upper classes.”
Lyonette eyed the rough notes Xinthe had prepared and thought that Krshia was right: Lism was tied with the runner-up, Councilmember Grillt, a very respected member of the Merchant’s Guild who’d served as the Guildmaster. Or even behind. She put the paper to one side.
“I see. We could definitely help your new candidates if the inn put its voice behind you, Krshia. Assuming we’re a net boon. Are you sure?”
Krshia Silverfang hesitated. She coughed into one paw.
“I know how the city regarded you after the Winter Solstice, Lyonette. And I am sorry—to Rheirgest as well. However, The Wandering Inn is still a name everyone in the city would listen to, yes? And—and it is a close race. We have used every trick we have. We need a miracle.”
And who else did you turn to for miracles but the inn? Lyonette exhaled and nodded. Certainly, if Imani, Temile, Timbor, and other influential figures who liked the inn spoke out, it would probably gain attention.
“We can at least be loud and attention-grabbing.”
“Then you’ll do it?”
Lyonette’s blue eyes met Krshia’s, and she felt at a crack along her jaw, wincing. Then she turned that wince into a frown.
“For Lism.”
“For the current Council maintaining a grip on sanity, Lyonette. The idiots running against us will try to revert things, and the inn is one of their targets.”
“I know that. But for Lism.”
Krshia was staring at the ceiling, breathing in and out, calculating.
“We lost Jeiss. Tismel and Zalaiss aren’t running, and they were easy to ignore. If we don’t have a clear majority, we lose the ability to act fast. We shouldn’t have agreed to the election, but most old Liscorians got stirred up by the campaign the old Council ran, and it’ll be two years of trouble if we don’t halt this. They want to start regulating the Free Hive, banning people entering the city—idiotic things. Lism and all the candidates running with us see a real future, not a regression to the past that won’t work.”
“So I’m helping. Lism. Lism.”
Lyonette’s tone finally caught on, and Krshia sat up. She gave Lyonette a frown, then a weak smile as she spread her paws.
“Lyonette, please! Isn’t that old water under Liscor? After all this time and him helping the inn, helping Liscor—”
Lyonette du Marquin was no fool. No willing dupe. No Erin. She fixed Krshia with a gaze that pinned the [Councilmember] and sat back in her chair.
“He’s better than the Merchant’s Guild. He’s changed, it’s true. For all those reasons, I can see your argument, Krshia. But I have one question for you that I need answered. I never asked because, well, I didn’t know for certain at first, and some things you don’t bother friends about. I’m going to ask now. Krshia Silverfang. Why Lism?”
Why vote for Lism? Because despite him being bombastic, despite all his foibles and—Krshia’s mouth was open, and she was about to run her pro-Lism spiel when she realized that wasn’t the question. She froze up, and her hair rose slightly. Lyonette stared at her.
Krshia glanced around. No one was paying attention that she could see; Yelroan was busy getting volunteers for his project, and he was one of the few Gnolls around. She lowered her voice.
“Lyonette, I think that’s personal, as you said—”
“Krshia. I may not have been in Liscor as long as Erin, but I know you. I know him, and I know your reputations. He has said some of the most heinous things about Erin, about you—you hated each other’s guts! That wasn’t a joke or a rivalry. He was a hostile ass of a Drake, and you two are…”
Lyonette linked her fingers together. Krshia avoided her gaze.
“I don’t think my private life is any—”
“How about this?”
The [Princess] started making way more explicit hand-gestures she’d learned from the adventurers. Nanette glanced over, snorted coffee out her nose, and Krshia jumped.
“Lyonette!”
“I’m serious, Krshia! What’s the reason?”
It genuinely offended Lyonette when she engaged with it. She got tolerating Lism. Erin had actually let him into the beach garden with less fuss than Tyrion because she understood he had become a useful pest instead of just a detriment.
But she knew how he’d first treated Erin. It might have been something Erin overcame, but he’d been genuinely nasty. Lyonette could shake his hand today, serve him food, and only give him a hard time. Umbral thrones, she’d even go to his birthday with a nice present if necessary!
But never in a million years could she imagine sleeping with him. And why was Krshia, Krshia who sold marital aids and who was so frank, embarrassed?
Because she knew how everyone felt about it, that was why. Krshia was glancing around, looking to her assistants for help, doing everything to get out of this. But the assistants who’d begun to come forwards with help ran straight into Xinthe, and whatever their political savvy, they were no match for six thousand years of Calanferian aplomb.
Krshia had to answer Lyonette. Her ears went flat. She fiddled with her tail, checked a fancy magical Wistram watch, peered up, then deflated. She met Lyonette’s eyes, then hissed.
“You have privacy spells?”
Lyonette nodded to Ushar, who activated them and stepped back. Krshia still drank from her tea, then the coffee, then snapped.
“It was supposed to be a one-night fling! Do you recall when Maviola El was in Liscor? Right when we were elected and we had our first meetings? It was then that we put the first rent fixes on the Council and I realized we might have common interests. We met gazes across the room and just nodded at each other, and then we hit Tismel, Zalaiss, and all the idiots with everything we had for three hours! We put so many laws into place—they couldn’t do a thing! And then we were all celebrating, drinking, and—”
“And you jumped him. You—and him—how drunk were you? Was there Rxlvn being served?”
Lyonette was considering pouring her coffee into her eyes to get the images out. Krshia was probably blushing like mad under her fur; it made the hair ripple if you knew Gnolls.
“He flirted with me first. We started arguing when we were having shots, and it became bets. We always bet—well, we didn’t want to do coins, so we did articles of clothing and—”
“Please stop. Sticks, acid please.”
Lyonette handed a cup to Sticks, who hesitated, then walked off, shrugging. The [Princess] listened. Krshia, for all she’d changed, was still a Gnoll. In that she was willing to give details.
All the details.
After a while, Lyonette took the cup Sticks had come back with and actually did splash it in her face. Unfortunately for her, Sticks was a literal sort of Goblin. She asked for acid?
He brought back acid.
Fortunately for Lyonette, even Sticks had changed. He’d gone over to Imani’s restaurant and filled it up with her acidic vinaigrette.
It still hurt like hell.
 
——
 
A bit later, Lyonette lay with Xinthe and the other staff applying hot towels to her cracked skin. Krshia stared at Lyonette’s…condition.
She hadn’t known. But the pain helped. It made Lyonette focus on that rather than anything Krshia and Lism got up to in the bedroom.
“You do what with…? No, don’t answer that. Don’t tell me what kind of perverted, insane acts you get up to behind closed doors. It doesn’t matter! That’s not the question!”
“We’re good at it, though.”
Krshia huffed defensively. Lyonette opened her mouth. The Gnoll gave her an arch look.
“You think it’s all an even playing field, Lyonette? Tell me about you and Pawn, then. You told me about your bedroom mishaps—I can’t imagine either of you two were good at anything.”
“I—we were both younger—don’t deflect from—it is not a competition!”
“No, it’s a performance, and being good at your part does matter.”
“So that’s it. Lism and his—what does he call it? He names his penis?”
Krshia sighed.
“It’s a perk, Lyonette. You asked. I told. You want to know the real reason?”
She leaned back in her chair, and Lyonette felt vinaigrette burning in the cracks of her skin. It still hurt less than thinking Krshia was just mad or so degenerate she put pleasure over principles. But the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] fixed Lyonette with a look that reminded the [Princess] of the old Krshia, because she was still there. Just changed. The [Royal Shopkeeper] spoke gently.
“Lyonette, Lism is a pain in my fur, even now. There are days when I want to dangle him outside the window and shake him. I can only do it inside, because, well, it’s a secret. Some days, I do have to literally pull his neck spines or put him in a headlock until he figures out he’s being an idiot. And some days, he says something I didn’t think of or reminds me that I’m fixated on an idea that won’t work—like trying to force the Guilds to hire equal members of all species. He’s not a complete fool.”
“He’s still a complete piece of Creler crap, Krshia. And he was, even more than now. Why did you continue?”
Krshia exhaled. She stared past Lyonette.
“Ten years, almost. Ten years of starting up my stall in Market Street, and the first thing he did was ask ‘how many of us’ there would be. It set the tone, no? Years of warring with him. He served Drakes, I served Gnolls. Fighting over prices—it wasn’t always just species. Hurling insults, though he never tried to actually attack me. Probably because he knew I’d end it with a punch. A few times, we had trouble. Soot’s gangs trying to run a racket, and we all had to team up to run them off. Monsters? Fighting poo slimes with brooms.”
“So you knew him as more than a fool.”
Krshia shook her head after a moment of thought.
“No, he was mostly a fool. If I’m honest, his one redeeming quality was Olesm, whom he raised. He never understood Erin. Had to be dragged into tolerating Goblins, Antinium. And I did some of that dragging. I told him that if he bothered Erin again I’d throw a Flask of Fire in his shop. That first time was probably just…hate sex. Which was fun.”
“Pleasestoptalking. And then?”
Krshia glanced at Lyonette.
“He changed. Just a bit. By the time he made Councilmember and we were fighting Tismel and Zalaiss, he was better than the Lism I knew in Market Street. After ten years in Market Street, he was better than the Drake I met when I first entered Liscor. Today? I might have actually liked him a bit if that was the Lism I’d first known. I think he wishes he were that Lism, but he’ll never admit he knows it’s for the best.”
“So you’re fixing him?”
Lyonette could see that, but Krshia just snorted.
“Fixing. What am I, one of Kevin’s people? I don’t have that much time on my paws, Lyonette. No…I gave him a chance after that first night, told him he would have to convince me to put up with him a second longer than I did. And I have changed.”
She glanced at her empty cup of tea, then glanced around. Back through time.
“Krshia Silverfang, the Plains Gnoll, never quite liked her tribe. She loved it and hated it in all the ways you do a family, but she had to leave. Liscor was her big break. She mobilized so many to go there, to take a chance, not just her tribe but those who wanted to try and change a city. Give her credit for that. But she did have a full ego. It took ten years of work, not running into a city and being the most important thing ever, to make her Shopkeeper Krshia. Now she’s a Councilmember, and I think it may have gotten to her head, but not as much as it would have ten years ago. I hope.”
She peeked at Lyonette for confirmation, but the [Princess] was just listening. Krshia glanced down at her cup.
“As for Lism, well, Krshia Silverfang doesn’t have many friends. Customers at her stall? Sure. Silverfangs? Her people, but she’s a leader of them, not always just one of the tribe. Time to do much else than work? She’s always worked, so who does she talk to? Elirr? No. Raekea’s married, Alonna’s in the same boat, Jeiss was married, Tismel and Zalaiss—she’d rather sleep in a sewer.”
“So, Lism. Huh.”
You met people in your work or the hobbies you engaged in, and by that standard, who was Krshia going to run into? Lyonette herself didn’t meet many people. Pawn had always been at the inn, and these days, it was just employees, which meant never, unacceptable, or…
…Someone she worked with outside of the inn. She fiddled with her fingers.
“I can relate to that. Even so, Krshia. It’s a change.”
“Maybe I should drag him to the inn someday, outside of work. Or invite you two over.”
“I will never set foot in your apartment again without having Ushar disinfect it first.”
Krshia rolled her eyes as Ushar shook her head behind Lyonette. The [Princess] smiled though, after a moment.
“I get it, Krshia. I do. People change. It’s just—Lism? Lism?”
Lyonette sat back in her chair, then sighed.
“Okay. I’ll try to figure out something tactful. No promises!”
Krshia smiled in relief. She stood and held out a paw—Lyonette slapped it down, glared, and went to hug Krshia.
“Don’t let your class change you entirely, Krshia.”
“I know. I think some Gnolls think I’ve become this City Gnoll entirely. Even the ones who came with me. But I just…this is how we change a city, Lyonette. We need Gnolls in government.”
Who could argue with that? Not Lyonette. She sighed as she promised to have something ready for Krshia soon; the voting would begin shortly, and it did matter. She hoped it wouldn’t bite her in the ass, but she wanted to re-establish her friendship with Krshia.
…Just as soon as she stopped Ilvriss from being murdered. Lyonette groaned after seeing Krshia off with a more casual meeting scheduled for next week.
“I have a meeting with Xitegen after this, don’t I, Ushar?”
“Yes, Princess.”
“…Is there anything I should know about other friends and their personal lives that will distress me? I’m ready for it now. Anything?”
Lyonette swivelled around. The staff all bustled away. After a moment, Nanette raised her hand. Lyonette stared at her. But the young witch innocently smiled.
“Your sister Menisi’s back in Calanfer, Lyonette. Ser Dalimont sends me update-gossip from home. You should read the rumors about her.”
The [Princess] sighed.
 
——
 
Lism was waiting for Krshia in the Portal Room, actually. He dashed over the moment she ‘appeared’ from out of nowhere.
“Krshia! Did she agree to help?”
“Yes, yes. Not here. You’re lucky—”
They vanished as people from Liscor eyed the two famous Councilmembers. Some cheered, others shouted at Krshia or Lism, asking what would be done about this or that, hecklers and supporters alike.
More against Lism than Krshia. That was the state of things, and Lyonette would have paid the election little mind; she had bigger fish to fry.
However, a person who’d followed Krshia and Lism now stepped into the inn itself. A rare guest. He came down the trapped corridor, was recognized and seated by Picker, after checking his pockets because the little Goblin had a reputation, and then tried to get a meeting with Lyonette.
Naturally, he’d fail. The [Princess] had some time before meeting with Xitegen, but a rather smug Xinthe came over.
“A busybody wants to speak to you, Princess. A guest, but not one I recognize. Should I send him on his way?”
No friend of the inn like Krshia. She indicated the man, or rather, Drowned Man, who was below Menolit-class and certainly couldn’t just meet w—
Lyonette shoved Xinthe out of the way.
“Nollesc? Is that you? My favorite [Spy]! Hello, I’m so sorry Xinthe kept you waiting.”
“Wh—but—he’s a spy!”
Xinthe spluttered to Ushar as the half-Clam Drake Drowned Man rose and bowed. Ushar sighed.
“He’s the inn’s favorite spy. Which means he ranks above you, most likely.”
The Calanferian woman stood there, poleaxed, as Nanette shot into a seat with the spy that Erin had made friends with.
It was one of the cannier things that Erin had ever done. Not least because it meant Lyonette had a contact who wasn’t an employee, but certainly remembered the inn doing him a good turn like with the spellbook, and who liked to be fed and not be treated as, well, a spy.
It was also why Nollesc was allowed to find the inn. Everyone needed a way to leak information and get important info. He ate for free. And today, he wore a slightly troubled expression as he sat down.
“I came here pursuing some light work, Miss Lyonette. If I may—my client hasn’t paid me to be discreet. Quite the opposite. This is the report I’m about to submit. I’d like you to see it first.”
He handed over a neat file to Lyonette, who opened it. Nanette peeked over Lyonette’s shoulders.
“Oh my—”
Lyonette closed the folder fast, pushed Nanette away, then peeked again. Her face went red.
“Oh no. Nollesc, I appreciate you coming to us. I’d like to buy your silence and if—”
The Drowned Man gave her a pained gaze.
“I’m afraid that’s not an option, Miss Lyonette. I’m just one person hired for this, and it’s not exactly…hard to do this job. This is probably already in their hands. Frankly, I suspect they have far more than one report and they’re waiting to use it.”
Lyonette opened the folder and stared down in dismay. Among the [Magic Pictures] that Nollesc had taken with an artifact—and he had multiple angles—she saw his quarries exposed.
Lism and Krshia, kissing in his apartments. And then a far more explicit—
She stared. Krshia hadn’t been exaggerating. She turned to Nollesc, and he turned red.
“This isn’t my usual line of work, but with the inn quiet, I am one of the top [Spies]…”
“No, I quite understand. And others have the same…images?”
“If not so clear; it wasn’t hard. They have no security on their apartments. They try to be secret, but—”
Ushar’s face was a full wince. The Thronebearer leaned down.
“It’s probably not occurred to them that they need security, Lyonette. They’re learning, but until your first breach—”
“Oh dead gods. Krshia.”
Lyonette closed her eyes. Then she thanked Nollesc and sent Ishkr with an urgent message. Because she didn’t think she could stop this even if she had Vaulont go into Liscor and start stabbing spies.
The election…had just gotten a lot more complicated. But again, Lyonette thought of Ilvriss. Much like his issues with Georgie—
They had bigger problems. Killer Golem ones.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland did not feel great after nearly dying and coming back to life. One seldom did especially when one’s heart stopped, for all they’d put her in the best healing apparatus possible.
It didn’t matter. She lived. And she had the will of Petria in her veins, and she would use it. Once more for the north.
She was debating triggering the Hunter-Killers on the Wall Lord now. She had sent for far higher-grade versions to be placed, but it might make more sense to just send a hundred and take out the entire camp.
“A hundred.”
One of the Lords of Stone accompanying Ulva as she strode around—well, limped fast—was breathless. Milksops and complacent children, the lot. It was her fault, really; she’d kept House Terland insular after the Second Antinium War. Not made them go out and about; the younger generations had some spark, but the older ones were content to sit and manage their holdings.
Again, it made sense. All the brave ones had died in the Sacrifice of Roses.
“Take the entire camp to pieces if we must, yes.”
“To pieces, Lady Ulva?”
She rolled her eyes. It was as if he’d never seen the Battle Golems do what they did—she glanced at the man in his late forties. Oh, right. Lord Moltin was their new [Mint Lord], and he loved numbers.
He probably hadn’t ever seen a battlefield. She snapped at the scrying orb that reflected a bouncing man’s face, covered in sweat but for different reasons than Moltin.
“It will start a war with the Drakes, but if it curtails what they’re planning, I will do it. It’s cost and reward. I take it that’s your comment, Xitegen? Stop jogging. I’m getting sick just looking at you.”
“I have to exercise, Great Aunt. And I am just pointing out that war seems undesirable. But far be it for me to countermand your wisdom. Are you planning on taking command of another Hunter-Killer?”
He was polite as could be, and the gasps from Moltin and the others were like squawking doves, but Ulva just grunted.
“You sound like your mother. She always could score blood. I want them prepared. Just house them in your city, Xitegen. If the Bloodfeast Raiders appear? Waste them.”
“Well, I won’t turn my nose up to that. I am cautioning against killing the Wall Lord, though.”
“So you’ve said. Get me those reports on Liscor and that [Princess]—now. You fought with him at the Winter Solstice, didn’t you, Xitegen? Sentimentality with a war-buddy?”
Ulva was catching herself up on everything that had gone down around Liscor. She knew the trite things like the beach garden, some of the stuff about the [Innkeeper]; she wasn’t blind. But she didn’t have Xitegen’s familiarity, and even he’d come late. He replied slowly.
“I won’t deny that killing a Drake that I fought Draugr with cramps my legs, Great-Aunt. I suppose there’s the flaw in allying oneself with the enemy. You get to respecting them by accident. But more practically, I am worried about the state of Izril. Far too many powers eying our lovely new posterior in the New Lands.”
“Not a time to waste Golems. Very well. But I shall not ignore my grudge.”
Let alone to that thing who’d taken Petria’s face. Ulva growled, and Xitegen nodded.
“Far be it for me to suggest we don’t have a grudge. How dare they thwart our assassination attempt. Those damn Drakes.”
She snarled at him.
“If you have a comment about Goblins not being so bad, I will have you checked for mind-control, Xitegen!”
His reply was as cool as those cucumbers he wouldn’t stop snacking on.
“I saw the Goblin King again, Great Aunt. I just know I’m not ready to greet him a third time. Allow us the time to level. If war with the Drakes gets us there, I won’t argue. But if it leaves us without the Golems to send at him—don’t.”
A frank assessment from the man she thought could lead her House when she died. Ulva strode towards her chambers.
“I hate Drakes. He will not conduct his business in the north without reprisal.”
The only question was…whether killing him was the right move. She was annoyingly torn on that for one reason alone. Petria had mentioned owing the [Princess], Lyonette du Marquin, a favor. So Ulva sat down as a serving Golem began opening reports and passing them across her desk.
Three hours later, she had a headache.
 
——
 
How did one damn city result in this many events? She hadn’t even known about some of the insanity that was, apparently, occurring there!
“Confirm this one too! Mihaela Godfrey, the Mihaela, and our own Eldertuin and other Named-ranks failed to kill one monster?”
She threw another report at the Golem who bowed.
“The report has been confirmed…{SIXTEEN} times, Lady Ulva. I shall do so again if necessary.”
She was one of the Maid Golem styles popularized about two thousand years back. Like one of Magnolia’s servants, perfectly sculpted, ceramic face and a maid’s outfit made out of the tough pottery.
Ulva wasn’t the biggest fan, but the Maid Golem didn’t have interior knives or a combat-form that could mince you, unlike some versions. This one just…was good at chores and paperwork, a mid-grade Autonomous-class Golem. Like Primera and Seconda, the two Golems that Xitegen loved, she could ‘think’ in limited terms, but it was still just her running routines, not true adaptive sentience.
Not like a true Sentient-class Golem, let alone Cognizant-class like Cognita and a few others, but the response was adept, fast, and would have rattled a younger member of House Terland.
Not Ulva. She had made it happen. The Golem-Maid’s glowing heart was an emerald set into her outfit with a brooch’s outline. It…pulsed.
Slowly. But each pulse seemed to add to the Golem’s finesse as she swept the report up, giving her replies more clarity, sharpness. Her eyes seemed to have something behind them.
[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. It was the power of the Terland Family. The great Skill passed down from leader to leader. It let Golems be what Terlands had always wanted them to be: for a bit, closer to people.
They are still Golems. Ulva had less infatuation with Golems than most of the current generation. She didn’t love them. She regarded them as invaluable, beautiful tools. Works of art. Companions and bodyguards, but she knew they were not people.
“Confirm it again and have the person on speaking stone to explain it to me, Golem. From your limited understanding of the world, give me a report on something…modern. Less stories. More current facts.”
The Maid Golem paused and went still. Ulva cursed.
“Overloaded her cognition circuit. Even with a slow heartbeat.”
She waited for it to finish thinking as she glanced at more files.
“If we only had some Zelkyr-made Golems. None of their Golem Hearts or circuits would have atrophied…but that Drake never allowed a single Golem of his design to go to anyone but Drakes.”
He hadn’t been dead that long before her birth. She’d even met a few Zelkyr-Golems, and the Archmage of Golems’ reputation was well-deserved.
Oh, not in all ways. His Truestone Golems, his masterpieces, had only ever numbered three. In the great Golem Ages of the past, many had been created, apparently. Zelkyr had been a jealous Drake, hoarding his greatest techniques, so no one had ever rivalled him. Nor, arguably, was he even the best maker of Battle Golems. He’d done dangerous ones, but she had access to all the surviving Golems of House Terland.
They had some really nasty variants. What Zelkyr had been best at was, well, intelligence. Mannerisms. He created Golems with personality, splendid Sentient-class Golems he arguably didn’t need to make so adaptive.
Or so many that were just attractive women. She snorted. At last, the Maid Golem came to life.
“…This is a modern report, Lady Ulva. I shall inquire about the veracity of this report. Ex-cuse me.”
She placed a report in front of Ulva, which was indeed fresh. Marked today. This hour. Ulva opened it, stared at a nude Drake and Gnoll engaged in—
She closed her eyes.
“Serving Golem?”
Another appeared.
“Yes, Lady Terland?”
“Eyedrops.”
Only after that did Ulva read the report and realize these were two Councilmembers. She sighed.
“I don’t care about who’s getting elected or the scandal. The [Princess] of Calanfer!”
She slammed a fist on the desk. She wanted to know about Lyonette du Marquin! Ulva was furious at her too. She’d helped the Drake! But if Petria said she owed the [Princess] a debt…Ulva sat back.
She had a headache. The first thing she’d done was stamp out that newspaper article about her ailment. Some fool had gone crying to the newspaper—it would have led to war, no doubt. But it would also have showcased House Terland’s weakness.
She did not need that with the Reinharts about. So…she checked on the progress of Golems marching to Xitegen’s lands. From there they could reach this Wall Lord Ilvriss fast enough.
But to live or die? She drummed her fingers on the tabletop. Her instincts said kill him. Apparently, Wall Lord Zail had also flown into the north, which meant the Drakes had their damn routes through the High Passes again.
Eschowar of Salazsar. There was a Drake she’d kill in a heartbeat if she thought they could get to him.
War. Battles with the Drakes. It felt like she was young again, before the Antinium had come. Ulva stared at her hand and a liver-spot on the wrinkled skin.
“Mirror.”
She whispered, and one reflected her face. So bitter, so untrusting, and paranoia had aged her. She touched her face.
“We cannot all die like Maviola El. Damn the Lady Firestarter, setting the bar on how to die.”
“Lady Terland? Please repeat the command.”
“Silence.”
Ulva stared down at the documents in front of her, then stood. She turned to the window—before realizing it was sealed up. Someone had placed bricks behind the beautiful window in her office. Enchanted them too.
It was an ugly addition to the House of Stone, but she’d insisted on it…years ago. Because she hadn’t wanted a window at her back. In case of assassins. She gazed at the brickwork now, wondering why she’d never put an illusion on—
“Why did I never put an illusion on this ghastly window?”
“The brickwork reassured you, Lady Terland.”
So it had. Now, the [Lady] gazed bleakly at the wall in her office and turned away.
“I can’t understand it. I don’t know the south anymore. [Cattle Barons]? We used to have nobility down there, not jumped-up [Ranchers]. It’s all changed.”
She hesitated, confronted by the annoying truth that The Wandering Inn was responsible for so many events she’d ignored in the complacency of the north. Terandrian affairs had been her concern, like Ailendamus, not some border-city of Drakes.
“Small wonder Xitegen went south or that Magnolia set up a base in Celum. If I’d paid any attention…very well. This [Innkeeper] is another Larracel, then. Hah, I never cared for the Haven as much as the rest of the infants squabbling to visit her inn.”
Ulva could not deny it, then. From the events on the scrying orbs to now, the inn and city of Liscor had been a locus of events. She chewed on some bitter salad of nastiness—the Quarass had prescribed it to keep her strength up. Ulva snatched a cup of water and drank, then spat her next words out.
“…And so what? It’s just like one of the Five Family’s scions racing around. The true scions, not a single family head like Tyrion or Magnolia.”
She glanced at the accounts of an [Innkeeper] overthrowing the [Mayor] of Esthelm in a day and leading an army of Goblins against Tyrion Veltras.
“Not bad. But that only makes her a successor to Maviola. Not that she’d kiss Goblins. But if the rest of Izril is reeling over the Goblins…they are Goblins, but what about Lady Wuvren? Her little baron’s still around, and she had death-threats and [Assassins] for years for bedding a Troll.”
That was it. There was nothing that this [Innkeeper] had done that was that much more insane than the old days. Goblins were one thing, and the Antinium, but even old Linter Veltras had once rode down through the Bloodfields and set the Drake cities to chaos for half a year, fighting on behalf of the Steelfur tribe with that boy who’d become Chieftain Iraz.
Dead now, the both of them. Ulva leaned over her desk, and the names came to her like a litany. Linter, Fulviolo, Maviola and Gresaria, Petria—
“She’s just a girl. Just one woman capable of changing things. If she had been born fifty years ago, she’d be warring with the Wellfars. Treading lightly both north and south. Clashing blades against the Cyclops, the likes of the Lightning Lord of Salazsar, and if she took up arms against House Veltras, she’d have an army of [Druids] coming to sort her out. And on those ships…”
Ulva Terland saw an image of an [Innkeeper] sailing into the distance. A dying [Prince]. And she imagined a fire-haired [Lady] standing next to the [Innkeeper], ablaze with her own righteous flames. Perhaps, it would have been Gresaria Wellfar’s spear running the [Prince of Men] through. Wellfar ships colliding with Bloodtear Pirates.
No. It wasn’t that she didn’t believe. Ulva leaned on the table, and then she re-read the reports. Not the details, but how they were written.
Like stories. [Informants] assuring the reader, again and again, that this had happened. They had proof! Like children trying to convince adults they’d seen Dragons.
Ulva didn’t need to be convinced. But it hit her, then.
“That’s what we lost during the Antinium Wars. People like her. She’s the Goblinfriend of Izril today, the woman who’s shifted Izril by herself. In my time, she’d be just one troublemaker among many.”
That was it. Ulva wanted to sneer at Erin Solstice, but she was not the Ulva Terland who could. Decades ago, the Twin Virtues of House Terland would have already been at the inn, challenging the [Innkeeper]. Today?
Ulva Terland gazed at the bricked-up window. And she didn’t even know if it was sunny or raining outside. She read the reports of the south. And it was a strange land she didn’t remember.
“I’ll never understand the situation where I am.”
Her heart palpitated, and she felt at it. But she remembered Petria and that land beyond. She feared death so much. She still did. But that would not be terrible, to see her sister again. So Ulva Terland closed her eyes, then spoke.
“Prepare me a team of Golem Horses and two bodyguards from the…sixth vault. I am going with the Golems south.”
She would see this Wall Lord and [Princess] for herself. And if she found reason, she would deal with them all. Of course, her family argued.
They thought she had gone mad, that she would die out there. She flatly told them to follow or shut up. Ulva left. Only later did she realize her ‘death’ and her years of inaction had cost her in other ways too. Her command of House Terland was no longer perfect, merely absolute in places.
There were more Golems stalking the Wall Lord’s camps, deployed from House Terland’s holdings. Not all of them were under her control.
 
——
 
It was a tragedy. A betrayal. Nothing would ever be the same.
Damia Reinhart held a Gnoll woman’s hand as the Silverfang [Huntress] cried.
“I trusted her.”
“We all did. This is unacceptable, no.”
“With—with him? He tried to—! Is she mad?”
Damia awkwardly patted the Gnoll woman’s paw. She hadn’t ever comforted anyone, but here she was. Sitting with a bunch of Gnolls in Timbor’s inn, commiserating.
Mostly because she had nothing better to do. The last few days had not exactly been lucrative for Damia. But to say they’d been boring?
Hardly! She’d been frustrated at times. Angry at not finding work or opportunity, mostly with herself, but in her seeking of things to exploit, Damia had fallen into a trap.
The trap of Liscor. She had become fascinated with the city itself. Everyone had a story, you see. So much had happened here, and if you were a bored [Lady] asking questions, they’d tell you.
Like these Silverfangs. Damia had been asking about the Gnollish perspective in the city when the news had come in. The reaction?
Horror, shock, outrage—she had heard Gnolls howling. Damia didn’t quite get it.
“So this Councilmember, Krshia, is sleeping with a Drake, Lism? I’m sorry, I don’t know either one—”
“It’s our Councilwoman! Honored Krshia—Lism is a nightmare! He’s a fool, a speciesist, Human-hating—and they’ve been together?”
“It was a rumor. It’s not like it came out of nowhere. But to think—”
There were, um, pictures. Rather explicit ones the Watch had torn down, but it was in the newspapers, everywhere. Damia was impressed, in her Reinhart way, by the smear campaign. But interestingly, it seemed to hit the Gnolls way harder than the Drakes.
In fact, she’d heard a lot of Drakes laughing about it. But to the Gnollish population—
“It’s a betrayal, then.”
Damia hazarded, and the Gnolls growled and nodded.
“It is! It’s one thing for Honored Krshia to have a relationship with someone. If it were anyone, a Human, another Drake, an Antinium, who’d care?”
“Antinium is an exaggeration, no? But yes, broadly, who cares? But him—he’s everything Krshia ran against! Has he been having her do him favors? Compromising on what she should be doing for us?”
“She didn’t vote for that policy to deal with the Guilds that one of the Silverfangs brought up at our meeting last month. Do you think…?”
Ooh. That was bad. Damia smiled, fascinated.
“But Honored Krshia, she’s the Gnoll who first met Erin Solstice, right? And Akrisa Silverfang’s sister? She brought you to Liscor!”
The Gnolls turned to her, surprised. The female Gnoll sniffed.
“You know a lot, young woman. Er…yes. How did you hear all that?”
“I asked. It’s fascinating to me! Your city’s gone through so much!”
“Well, it’s hardly as big as Pallass or Invrisil—those are bustling cities.”
The female [Huntress] demurred, but Damia shook her head.
“I know Invrisil. I’ve visited plenty of times. It has fads and entertainment, but it does not change. Did you really have a [Druid] come to the Floodplains and fight a hundred thousand Shield Spiders?”
One of the newer Silverfangs angrily ordering another ale hesitated and turned. He began to laugh, but the [Huntress] just sniffed and blew her nose before nodding.
“That? Oh, yes. It was so good for all us [Hunters]. So many Shield Spiders dead; I fell into a nest the week after, thought I was dead, and it was empty. Way more animals appeared after that. This summer will be a good one—excuse me, but this news is bad. I think we have to speak to our friends. I’m so sorry.”
“No, not at all. Binevy, cover their drinks.”
The Gnolls gave Damia a second look and thanked her, asking her name. She introduced herself, and the [Huntress] blinked at her.
“I am sorry, but this—I think I need to reconsider my vote.”
“Even though it’s Krshia? The Gnoll who fought at the Meeting of Tribes?”
The [Huntress] stared at the table, hesitating. Another Gnoll growled for her.
“A vote for Krshia Silverfang sounds like a vote for Lism. I’d rather eat shit.”
The rest of the Gnolls snarled agreement and stormed out. The [Huntress] hesitated.
“Wait, Beirl! She has a point! Excuse me, I’m so sorry—[Farstep Interception]. I said w—”
She took one step, and Damia’s eyes widened. The Gnoll flowed around Damia, out the door, and down the street. She appeared thirty feet away, in front of the snarling Gnoll, and he jumped as she grabbed him. All in a single moment.
“—ait!”
They began to argue as they stormed off, and Damia stood there until Binevy returned.
“That was an amazing Skill! Was that [Huntress] Level 30?”
She half-turned, and Timbor peered up from cleaning their table.
“Her? Nah, that’s a regular of mine. She’s Level 20-something, but that’s one of her Skills. I think she got it after the Raskghar attacks. She fought one off taking her younger brother—gained the Skill.”
“House of thorns, that’s impressive!”
Damia was jealous at once. She’d only levelled once since coming to the city, and only because she was so low-level. But that…that was no ordinary step-Skill. Binevy bowed.
“Lady Damia, should we head back to Invrisil? It’s been three days.”
And we haven’t found anything for our trouble. The only work Damia had found was from the stupid [Recruiter] to get her to work in Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site—and a [Madam] trying to get her to work in one of Invrisil’s red-light districts.
Damia refused to go. She strode into the rains as Binevy found an umbrella, sighing. Damia didn’t need one; she had a little charm on her belt shaped like an umbrella that made the rain pelt off her body. She smiled.
“This is the city to be in, Binevy! Follow me!”
 
——
 
Okay, she admitted it.
She was having fun. It was such a novel experience Damia didn’t really know what to do about it. It was far headier than even sneaking expensive wine from her mother’s cabinets or her illicit relationship with Wernel.
Taking a carriage for a joyride was more thrilling for a bit, but this felt…fun. How else could you describe it? Damia would walk down a street, find something that caught her eye, and make a purchase of a burger for lunch, a healthy chicken burger marinated in the fish sauce that was special to Liscor, with a smashed patty liberally infused with cheap but flavorful spices.
Then find a charm-seller and ask how that had all started. See a half-Giant doing a stump speech with hundreds listening to him talk about his vision for Liscor.
Binevy was worried.
“Your mother has been asking about you, Lady Damia. She believes you’re overwhelmed or striking out without any direction.”
“Tell her I’m fine and don’t answer her queries.”
Damia didn’t like the ‘no direction’ bit because it was partly accurate, but Binevy fussed with her sheets.
“Lady Damia, she sent an allowance for ‘indulgences so you remember our agreement’. A hundred and fifty gold pieces.”
“Add it to our budget. We can’t go back.”
“But Lady Damia, there are far more amenities in the north—”
Binevy didn’t get it. Damia snapped at her.
“I can’t afford to pay your salaries or the servants that Aunt Cosoi left me for more than a few months, Binevy! I may have a lot of personal gold, but if you add up all the servants, I need a source of income! So unless you’d like to find other members of the family or join the general roster?”
The [Head Maid] shuddered. Being a ‘general servant’ of House Reinhart was the most dangerous job of all; the Reinharts valued their personal servants. The expendable ones were the ones in danger.
“How did you work that out, Lady Damia…?”
“I did the numbers.”
Damia had sat down in her rooms at the inn and worked it out with a quill and ink. Using her brain to actually take stock of her assets instead of relying on Binevy had been wonderful. Even if the problem remained.
After some thought, the [Head Maid] hurried to keep in step with Lady Damia.
“…Perhaps this is the place to be, Lady Damia. But I fear you need bodyguards, and I need more staff. Should I send for all the servants to join us here?”
“Yes. Find us apartments or something…cheap. Actually, look into a mansion or—what do people live in that’s not a mansion?”
“A house, Lady Reinhart?”
“Yes, one of those.”
Binevy got to work, and Damia wondered if it was her [Lesser Charisma] or [Basic Leadership] Skills that made the younger woman seem to actually be working with a will. Or Damia pointing out she was doing this to keep Binevy employed.
Damia was on a time-limit, especially if she racked up expenses like a place to stay. Trivial payments like buying someone a drink? Simple. But anything major was going to cut into her limited budget.
So she kept doing what she found fun in. Exploring and just…okay, falling in love with the city a bit. For she had a question.
 
——
 
“What’s the city’s name?”
“Name?”
“Of course. Invrisil is the City of Adventurers. Pallass the City of Inventions. Liscor is what? Surely it must have one for a city that does so much.”
A [Craftsman] was using Shield Spider glue to put together a piece of custom-made roofing tile. It was shiny, black—Shield Spider chitin held together with the same glue.
Not cheap, and it gave Damia a wonderfully eerie feeling. Not everyone wanted it; a few Gnolls had backed away in horror when they’d asked about it. But as the Drake explained, it had value.
“Name of Liscor? We were once called the Mercenary’s City. And the Floodplains City. But…it fits, but it doesn’t.”
“A city should have a title. Shouldn’t it? After all, this city is so important.”
“It is? It is, isn’t it.”
Thoughtfully, the [Craftsman] glued another piece of the tile into place, then checked it. He tapped it with one claw, then produced a little wind with a glowing clawtip.
“Almost done with this tile. It needs to hook together, see? You can’t nail this down. If the nail even goes through the chitin, it might splinter.”
“This seems awfully expensive and cumbersome compared to a piece of slate or clay.”
Damia eyed the tiles he was working on, enough for a new house’s roof. The [Craftsman] snorted.
“It is, and it costs a fortune even with Shield Spiders being plentiful. But this roof won’t crack or atrophy, even if something hits it in two years’ time. Nothing better, except a good [Roofer] with long-lasting Skills. Some idiots, well, their Skills last a month then fade away. [Rush Roofers] or just [Corner Cutting Contractors]. There’s been an uptick in those bastards, but Liscor’s better than most cities. Hard to beat Antinium. They don’t know how to lie, but I’m better. Unless this roof blows off entirely—and if they put it together like they should, it won’t unless the entire roof comes off—it’ll last four decades if no one damages it!”
He rapped on the hard tile and let Damia run her hands over it.
“Not just that; it keeps in temperature like nothing else. You can’t really enchant it, so I suppose it’s not one of those fancy magic roofs, but there’s only so much magic you can put in a home anyways. Put a rune in each room, on the windows, and enchant it all up and all the magic just…only half-works or fails to work.”
“Ah, because there’s only so much ambient mana or interference. I understand that.”
He nodded, pleased.
“This roof is exceptionally fine without a hint of magic. Took me a while to figure out how to make things like we used to, but my grandfather knew the trade, and he walked me through it. Worth learning. I’m an [Arachnidparts Craftsman]. If you think it’s just for looks, well, when the Necromancer attacked twelve years back, he hit the city with spells. Threw undead and rocks at us. There are still roofs made of this stuff around today, despite everything. And if they’re that old, they probably pre-date the First Antinium War too. Go ask the owners if they remember.”
“Really?”
That was impressive. The Drake went back to work.
“It’s very helpful to have Shield Spider chitin. I don’t do armor, but I’ve heard it’s better’n leather, if less flexible. Good if you can’t buy steel.”
“And this all came about because someone figured out how to make the glue again?”
The Drake scratched his chin.
“I think it was some Human [Alchemist]. Saliss of Lights revitalized the industry and got a lot of [Alchemists] making it. I owe the fellow a drink if I ever meet him. Now, here’s the final trick. [Microweb Coating]!”
He ran a brush down the edges of the locking parts, and Damia peered and saw the smallest webs imaginable there. The Drake nodded proudly.
“Once they’re stuck together, they won’t come apart. I use it on all things. Carpentry, anything I need to hold together—I built this bench out of just the webs. Not a single locking joint or nail. It was just to see if it’d fall apart, but it hasn’t so far.”
Damia blinked at the bench she sat on. Binevy adjusted her skirts nervously as if checking for baby spiders, but there it was again. She peered at the Drake before asking how much his rates were.
No good on hiring him for much. Too expensive, too custom, but it was just—
 
——
 
“Oh sure, I used to deliver to Erin Solstice all the time. Me, I’m still voting for Krshia. She’s my aunt, distantly related. Everyone on her street knew she and Lism were like that. I mean, gross, but Liscor’s way better’n it was.”
One of Liscor’s top City Runners was a Gnoll named Sasquatch. Or nicknamed that; she had big feet. She was pretty popular, not least because she’d just received a notice saying she was being considered for Courier rank in time.
She’d need training, but she had hit Level 30, and she had Skills. She watched as Hawk warmed up beside the gates; they were going on a run north from Liscor so he could appraise her for the Runner’s Guild.
“You ready, rookie?”
He shouted at her. The Rabbit Beastkin Courier was not in a good mood, and he had refused to talk to Damia. Sasquatch leaned over.
“Don’t mind him. He’s been mad since his last girlfriend broke up with him.”
“I heard that! Let’s play a game—you don’t outrun me, I kick you!”
Sasquatch jumped and winced as the other City Runners groaned. Damia frowned.
“Wasn’t that months ago?”
“Yeah, but he’s still pining. I heard he was gonna marry her and everything.”
The two whispered together, and Damia peeked at Hawk. He was amazingly fit.
“And he ran against the Assassin’s Guild—twice! Did you ever meet Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier?”
Sasquatch’s face fell slightly.
“Yeah, he visited the Runner’s Guild. I really liked him. He was super cool. I mean, everyone knows Hawk, but Courier Seve was magic. I guess that’s why I kept pushing. I saw all the Runners from Celum and the Wind Runner, and I thought if she could do it—”
“Ready, rookie? You’d better be because I’m getting this stupid job over with! We’re picking up Runner Fals and Garia. None of you are going to pass the test. Well, Garia might.”
Hawk stormed over, and Sasquatch jumped. She’d been yakking with the other City Runners, barely stretching, which seemed like a bad move to Damia. However, Hawk’s narked expression said he wasn’t going to give her time to warm up.
“Here’s my kicking foot. Since you’re so ready to chat, you must be ready to go! Onetwothree, go!”
“Aw, Courier! My friend—wait, wait, sorry, Miss—[Outrun Trouble]!”
Hawk went for a boot to Sasquatch’s rear and missed. She ran ahead of him and he blinked, then shifted onto his feet, sprinted after her, and went for another kick.
Only…he never caught the Gnoll. She went racing up the battlements, leapt off the walls, and Hawk followed.
“You little—huh? Hold on, that Skill can’t—”
He accelerated, and now he was using his Skill. [Physical Overdrive]. The Courier was—a Courier! But as Damia watched, open-mouthed, with the [Guards] and other City Runners who’d been utterly forgotten, the young Gnoll raced over the bridges, leaving a spray of water behind her.
And Hawk didn’t catch her.
“Dead gods, what Skill is that?”
Someone exclaimed, and Damia breathed.
“She said she got it one time when the moths attacked the inn. It’s…it even works on Hawk?”
It was insane! The faster he went, the faster she did, and he didn’t seem to believe she was beating him. They were over halfway across the Floodplains when Damia saw the distant flickers slow.
“Ooh, it ran out. He got her.”
A Human City Runner commented, but even so, that had to have been ten minutes of free escape time. It probably had limits; Damia just bet that even if Sasquatch was faster than whatever she had to outrun, you could nail her with an arrow or force her into bad terrain.
But…
“Alright, everyone off the walls! Move it, people!”
An Antinium Soldier barked and chivvied the watchers off the walls. One of the City Runners groaned.
“Aw, damn. I was gonna run with them…well, I have to go to the villages. [Waterfoot]! [Nullify Short Fall]!”
He leapt onto the water, and one of the [Guards] snapped down.
“Don’t make us rescue you, kid! If a monster in the water gets you, we won’t be there fast!”
“I’m not asking an Antinium to rescue me!”
The City Runner shot back, and the [Guard] waved a fist. He had a mustache glued to his face, Damia realized.
“That’s Mister Guardsman to you, brat! And I have [Emergency Escape: Water]! You think I’d be on these damn walls in the rain without it?”
He huffed, and Damia had to introduce herself to him. He turned out to be Guardsman Bushyface—he had two eyebrows as well.
“The Skill? Got it during the last rains. Nearly drowned. Damn water. Hates it, so I does. But that’s the job for me. Listen, you a local of Liscor? No, damn. I need more people to vouch for me to apply for Senior Guard—be about your business, Miss!”
She did, smiling, and the Antinium Soldier watched her go, then muttered to a [Guardsman] who gazed after her.
“That’s the Reinhart we’re supposed to keep an eye on? She’s pleasant! I guess that is suspicious.”
 
——
 
Here was the conclusion Damia furnished Binevy with, the reason she liked Liscor and wanted to be here.
“Skills and stories, Binevy. Everyone in the city has a Skill and a story. Anyone who’s been here has survived something, seen something, and gained a Skill as a result!”
It wasn’t even always traumatic! They passed a young Human whose entire job was crazy, but only fit this city.
“Lost your ring? Lost some keys? Lost anything made of metal down a privy, down the sewers, in the water? I’ll get it!”
He had a piece of metal on a string and a fishing pole attached. He’d grab your lost things via the power of magnetism. Or as he called it…
“Electricity! I saw some Hobgoblin playing it on a guitar once, and I taught myself a shock spell! Turns out you can make it attract stuff. Like lovely ladies for a drink after work?”
He tried the line on Damia, and she shot him down, laughing but amused. She turned to Binevy.
“You see? No city back home is like this!”
“I do, milady, but where do you fit in?”
Damia’s face fell.
“I wish I knew. If only I could get to the inn!”
She’d tried. She’d asked Timbor, tried to get into Imani’s restaurant, but she had to book a reservation, and no one important enough with the inn had time for her. Or trusted her.
Damia had gotten a bit obsessed with the inn. It sounded fun. It sounded wondrous. And after days of literally drinking up stories, she knew more than most Liscorians. Like those facts about Krshia.
“Where are the Silverfangs at, Binevy? Can you find that out? If they did come north, I wonder how they’re doing. And how is no one asking anything about Rhaldon Flemmings? The [Alchemist] comes here, rediscovers Shield Spider glue, and no one thinks to follow him?”
She felt alive again—right up until Binevy found out where Rhaldon was.
“He works…with Uncle Calidus? And they sold aphrodisiacs that actually work?”
Damia sagged onto a bench and lay there, face-down in the rain as it bounced off her charm, which took that moment to fail since it didn’t last forever without needing a recharge. Binevy stood over her with an umbrella, patting her back.
A white Gnoll girl walked out of the school next to the bench, Ser Dalimont holding an umbrella over Mrsha the Vaguely Soggy’s head. The Gnoll girl eyed Lady Damia as she, Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva walked back to the inn.
This city gets weirder every week, I tell you what. You think Krshia’s cooked like a hot dog now everyone knows about her and Lism…?
They walked off. Damia’s head rose after a minute of screaming silently. She missed the white Gnoll entirely.
“I’m not giving up, Binevy! If I just hang around here long enough, I know I’ll find my chance! Or someone from the inn!”
Binevy opened her mouth, belatedly putting two-and-two together. She eyed her new mistress and gave her a very wide, very fake smile.
 
——
 
The inn didn’t want anything to do with a Reinhart anyways. Damia tried.
“So, what’s a cool Gnoll like you doing around here? Mind if I buy you a drink?”
Binevy’s note on Liska said ‘Turnscale’, and Damia thought it was way more profitable—and age-appropriate—than trying to settle for Timbor or someone else. Liska was supervising the people coming and going through the doors with increased speed even for her.
“Sorry, I have a new favorite bar and girlfriend. Next!”
“Er, but I’d love to talk, even as friends! I have money for plenty of drinks. Are you open to throuples?”
“Hey, lady, you’re holding up the line. Next to Celum!”
Binevy whispered in Damia’s ear.
“The Silverfangs are around Celum, Lady Damia. If we head north a bit we’ll find them.”
Damia slunk into Celum, and Liska watched as two lines of people flowed through the door she was operating via her Skill that allowed for multiple consecutive entrances. She was so focused on being productive and levelling that only after a moment did she turn.
“…Wait, throuples? Aw, damnit!”
She fell to her knees and put her head on the floor. She was sacrificing everything for this job! A few people waiting in line eyed Liska as she rolled over and stared up at the ceiling.
 
——
 
Without the Unmarked Coach, Damia had to ride a horse. Which wasn’t the worst…she didn’t have much muscle or practice though, so she was thoroughly saddle-sore by the time they reached the Gnolls’ iconic camp north of Celum, just shy of the Remendia-Ocre borders.
This was the Ruins of Albez area, and it was buzzing a bit; the opening of the old laboratory with its treasures had resulted in a huge haul, but there were still things in the area worth taking, from the tiles to the trap spells in Udatron’s laboratory, and so both cities had engaged in their own smaller economic booms.
It didn’t look like the best grazing area, though. The Ruins of Albez were rocky and a bit depressed into the land. Silverfangs were [Miners], but like every good Gnoll tribe, they preferred to raise their flocks.
Were they going to mine Albez? As it turned out, they had been inquiring, but the several thousand Gnolls would have been far surplus to requirements. Not that they were all here; Gnolls were riding into camp, tending to cows, or returning from day-jobs.
They didn’t seem…happy. They didn’t look that unhappy, but their leader was a Gnoll named Rayna Silverfang—at least the one who minded the base camp.
She was as young as Damia with markings down her arms and legs that made her a full warrior of the tribe, but the Meeting of Tribes had aged her, and she was growling as she spoke to a number of people wanting her time.
“Listen. Listen, we will move our camp, yes? Within the week! Just let us pass through your lands. We cannot march the herds nonstop, and we have been searching for work! Have we been stealing, taking your grazing lands? Albez is unclaimed! We’ve slain monsters here, yes? [Clan Leader] Plisce has spoken with your [Mayors]!”
The representative from Ocre hesitated.
“Yes, and we don’t mind you staying, but this is our shared land. So the matter of a fee—”
Okay, older the Silverfang might be, but Rayna threw up her paws.
“Fees! No one is using this grass! No one else is even hunting here! Why must we pay a fee? Is there a fee for the road? For drinking water from a stream? Or just for Gnolls?”
She was mad, and from the way the two representatives shifted, they were uncomfortable. The [Negotiator] from Remendia hurried to clarify.
“Not at all, Chief Hunter Rayna! We completely welcome Gnolls to the north! There won’t be any Drake hostility here.”
“Absolutely not! We’re not warmongering speciesists!”
Both Humans insisted, and they were earnest. The Meeting of Tribes being televised meant that no one was exactly in a rush to be anti-Gnoll at the moment. They even smiled at Rayna, but her expression was stony as Damia strode forwards.
Someone blocked her.
“Excuse me, I believe I am next.”
A rather travel-weary, but distinctly less saddle-sore, Lady Desinee El was holding the reins of a horse she’d rented after growing tired of Overnight Carriages. She and Damia blinked at each other, then warily nodded as Rayna rubbed at her face and turned to a [Shaman].
“For this, I came north. For this, Irit. I should have joined the younger Gnolls forming a tribe, like Kerasil’s band. There would be adventure and a young leader to follow as he became [Chieftain]. Or just stayed in the south.”
“We should have brought Honored Tkrn. He knows the north. But he just had to do his Tkrn thing and put a baby in Honored Inkarr.”
“Bastard. I’d like to see him deal with this.”
Irit was just as young as Rayna and badmouthed the Humans to their faces. Then they turned and gave the two Humans the most insincere of smiles.
“Apologies…friends. Let me explain the situation as [Clan Leader] Plisce might. We have heard, since passing Liscor, so many say the same thing. We welcome you Gnolls, you will find no hostility here, and it is true, not an arrow has been shot—aside from [Bandits]—nor offense truly given in our time here.”
Both Humans nodded as Damia and Desinee listened. Damia was nudging Binevy. Who was Honored Inkarr? She had more to learn!
Irit jumped in as the [Shaman] picked a bug off his clothing and flicked it away.
“Yes, we are welcome. However…it is strange. Drakes, they have their cities and so many rules. You may not graze here. This is our land. You may not trade here, this is our trade. You may only enter our cities like so, with our documents. But Humans do not do this.”
“That’s right. We’re very open, very free compared to Drake lands!”
The Ocre man smiled. The [Negotiator] hesitated because Damia could hear the largest ‘but’ in creation coming. Rayna eyed him.
“Yes, only it seems like every place we go, someone owns the land. We find a forest? The city owns the forest. We find a brook? A [Merchant] has a part-share of a river. A river. Everything has a fee, even camping near a dungeon site!”
She pointed at Albez, and the Humans glanced at each other.
“Well, our cities do claim the area. It’s a very nominal fee, friends—”
Rayna growled, and they backed up.
“Don’t call us friends. Being pecked to death for coins is not better than one giant claw scooping it all up at once. If we were welcome, we would feel it. We will go, but if you respect us, don’t charge us for something that costs you naught, no?”
Likely, the two representatives had their orders, so they began trying to argue the Gnoll around. But at that moment, Lady Desinee interrupted.
“I believe that is quite fair. Let the Silverfangs camp without need for a fee. If Remendia and Ocre object, they may present the bill to House El.”
“And House Reinhart!”
Both negotiators jumped and turned. When they saw Desinee glancing with annoyance at the vibrating Damia, they paled. But Damia just had to jump on the moment. They stepped forwards as Rayna blinked and eyed them. She ducked her head.
“Thank you, [Ladies]. We appreciate such generosity. Be sure I will tell my [Clan Leader], and it is witnessed by [Shamans]. What brings two such famous names to our small camp?”
She was more formal as Desinee introduced herself. Desinee indicated Damia.
“We are not together, incidentally. I have merely stopped by on my…long…trip to Liscor to advertise some new products. The Kaalblade series of House El!”
She flourished and produced the long, almost hacksaw-like design that generated the energy-blade that Ryoka Griffin had popularized. Rayna’s eyes lit up, then she sagged.
“Marvelous, but we cannot afford one, surely.”
She turned to Irit, but Desinee smiled, the consummate sales-lady.
“Not to worry, Chief Huntress. For such an important tribe, I would be delighted to demonstrate. You see, we’ve upgraded the features, modifying Maviola El and Archmage Valeterisa’s designs.”
They had, in fact, finally managed to come up with a new design that no longer meant you had to have a wooden guide-rod for the magic. Now the blade held its shape without need for a guide, and Desinee slashed through a rock to show everyone how they’d improved the ‘edge’ of the magic. It deformed a bit when it contacted the stone, but it was an improvement, no doubt.
“It no longer merely melts through anything it hits. Our, ah, collaboration with the Wind Runner has resulted in far more advanced edge geometry. Not to mention, we have these! Kaal-arrows! And even a Kaal-glaive!”
There was a long-handled, well, spear attached to a modified Kaal-blade for long-ranged magical stabbing and even an arrow that would hit a target and burn through before going out.
Expensive as sin, though. Damia might have bought the Kaalblade until she heard the price, which exceeded all the money she had in her account at the Merchant’s Guild. She could have bought…three Kaal-arrows. The Silverfangs were highly interested, but as they pointed out—
“We could arm ourselves all in steel like [Knights] and Dekava is doing for the Order of Solstice for these prices, Lady Desinee, yes?”
The [Lady] sighed.
“It’s true. This is more of a commander or private citizen’s defensive weapon. And between you and me—I didn’t invent the Kaal-glaive. Dreadful name. That was another member of the family.”
She shuddered as she folded it back up for her bag of holding. Then finished her pitch.
“The real benefit is for the adventurer, the foe facing high-magic. Such as, perhaps, the Archmage of Memory’s famous flying soldiers? He’s lent a few to that dreadful war in Terandria, but I have heard that someone bought a Kaalblade and used it to some effect on even his flying super-soldiers!”
“Really?”
Desinee smiled with pride for her family’s craft.
“Oh yes. When Maviola El came up with the concept, she envisioned Kaalblades as expensive weapons that did require mana stones to function, but would be deadly against most foes who resist lesser magics. Crelers, [Knights] in advanced magical plate—even Djinni! A blade of magic to hurt magical beings.”
“Fascinating. We shall of course tell our [Clan Leader], but at this moment…”
“Of course. If you would like to speak, I shall be in this area, likely Liscor, for at least a few weeks.”
Desinee handed them a card and gave Damia another look before leaving. When it was Damia’s turn…she realized she didn’t have anything to say.
She’d hoped she’d find the Silverfangs engaged in something profitable up north, but it seemed they were a bit aimless or stymied by the local authority of cities. However, her being so flustered and admitting she had just come to say hello actually amused the annoyed Chief Huntress Rayna.
Damia was served some silkap as the young Gnoll woman chatted with her.
“A visit is fine! We appreciate it more than all this polite ‘we love Gnolls, pay us’, yes? We’re looking for more than just a place to stay. We want work! We’d mine around Esthelm, but we want to be further north than just past Liscor. Sadly, everyone owns land here.”
She was rather miffed about it; apparently, the Drakes, for all they enforced their territories, would let a Gnoll tribe graze because grass…was grass.
But even grass was worth something if a [Merchant] owned the area. Damia gnawed on a lip.
“That’s certainly a problem. Around most cities, you’ll find the same issue.”
“So we know. We’re looking into places less settled, but we would like to be near a city! We have never been the wildest tribe…ach, I shouldn’t complain. Did you have a project to hire us on, Lady Damia?”
Rayna cast a hopeful glance at Damia, and the young woman grimaced.
“I couldn’t afford to hire even a few of your people for more than a week! I don’t have that much money.”
“True. It is hard for us Silverfangs to generate profits if our members have to find work for a day, a week. We prefer to have our own mine or task. We might have to stake a claim in the High Passes at this rate. I’ve heard the further north you go, everything is owned by a Human.”
The thought made the Gnoll so gloomy that Damia didn’t know what to say. They were in the same boat.
 
——
 
How did one make money?
By receiving it for something. A service, an item you created, be it fighting or consultation. You got money from work.
Unless you were just born with it. Then you could lend it out. When you had money, you got to change the rules, but if you had no money, you had to go for far simpler exchanges.
Or you could steal it.
Damia was so busy pondering the money problem on the way back to Celum she didn’t notice they were being robbed until Binevy squeaked.
“Lady Damia!”
Someone put a knife at her throat. Damia froze and saw a masked figure grabbing at Binevy’s belt pouch.
“No trouble and you don’t get cut, Miss. Who’re you, fancy nobles?”
Damia saw a trio of highway robbers had jumped them on the road to Celum. She made a quick calculation and spoke frostily.
“I am a member of House Reinhart. Accost me or my servant and regret it.”
It was a risky move, but one of the men had been tugging at Binevy’s blouse. He froze, and then the one with the knife grinned.
“Oh? Sounds like you’re worth a bundle then. Maybe you come with us.”
“Maybe my family feeds you to the snakes if you touch us. No one attacks a Reinhart and lives. Take the money and go. Kill us and they will find you.”
The [Highway Robber] didn’t like that. He raised his hand to hit her, and Damia locked eyes with him.
“You can kill me and try to run—and my mother will find you—or leave and consider my gold your reward. Hit me, and I will be the consequences.”
She rather liked that line. Unfortunately, she might not have been quite as savvy as she thought. The [Highway Robbers] hesitated, drew back to confer as Binevy clung to Damia, then one gazed at her.
“Good point. We don’t need a damn [Assassin] on our backs, Miss oh-so-fancy noblelady.”
Damia turned her head, already annoyed, and began to walk since she assumed they’d take her horses. She stepped over the fallen log they’d set up, and one of them spoke.
“[All-Concealing Hood].”
He put a bag over her head, and she froze, then tried to scream. The [Highway Robber] spoke cheerfully.
“Let’s see what you’re worth as a ransom! Very respectfully. [Nap Tap]—”
 
[Sharp Dame Level 12!]
[Skill – Sharp Remark Obtained!]
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart woke up with the bag over her head. She mumbled.
“Binevy?”
“Your Ladyship, we’ve been kidnapped! Did they touch you? Oh, dead gods!”
“No. They didn’t touch you? I guess that worked. Next time, I think I’ll refrain from using my name…no, it’s better than being assaulted. Mother is going to lecture me forever.”
She felt woozy, very unhappy with herself for not having those bodyguards, and relieved nothing worse had happened to two young women. Still…as she wiggled around, she ascertained they were in a stone room.
It smelled a bit. She guessed it was someone’s basement. Given where they were…
“We’re either in a farmstead or—no, we’re in Celum. Damn, they must have brought us into the city, and for all Xitegen claims he’s controlling the city, the rats passed his Golems. Maybe I can use my aura to signal him.”
“H-how do you know it’s Celum?”
“Smells like a privy. We’re near sewers. Either that or they’ve got an outhouse too close to the basement, but I doubt most people would be that stupid. Let me just throw my aura…”
Silence. After a few minutes of them listening and hearing dull sounds from above, a rumble that was probably a wagon, and concluding Damia was right—Binevy coughed.
“Lady Damia, do you know how to throw an aura?”
“No. I skipped lessons with Lady Zanthia because I didn’t see the point. Damn it, Aunt Magnolia!”
Damia was trying to teach herself until she had an idea. [Think Harder]! She concentrated, then spoke.
“Binevy…those three only got us because we were careless. If that’s the quality of criminal around here, no wonder other gangs are moving in.”
“Yes, milady! They were nothing more than rogues! Lord Gorthes would have run them down in a heartbeat! D-do you think they’ll ransom us?”
“If they know how. Hold on, that wasn’t what I…Binevy, you could have been braver. You collapsed like a wet noodle. Have some dignity.”
“Lady Reinhart, they had knives! I’m no Ressa—”
“Shut up, will you? I don’t mean it. Well, not really. I suppose that’s the point. Damn all of this, I’m not the consequences, I’m the conesquenced! I don’t have time to be bothered by half-witted, lowbrow idiots I have to do all the thinking for!”
Her words seemed to grow more and more pointed on her tongue until she spat the last remarks out, and what she was going for worked. She heard a faint tearing sound, and then—
The bag on her head developed a hole. A dim basement appeared as she jerked, and Binevy gasped.
“What was—?”
“[Sharp Remark].”
“Sharp…? You can use that to actually cut? I just thought you hurled it at someone you didn’t like!”
“Any Skill is broadly applicable if you’re intelligent. Keep up, idiot.”
After a few more tries, Damia figured out how to activate it with a cutting comment and raised her bound hands and legs. They hadn’t even bound them behind her, and while they were sturdy, a few remarks about her situation, her captors, and how she felt frayed them enough for Damia to rip her hands free of the rope and rip the bag off her head.
Good thing too; her hands were tingling horribly and swollen. She guessed that they’d tied her too tightly with the ropes.
Even if mother ransomed me right away, I might have lost digits. They hurt terribly, and she couldn’t even free Binevy, so she just used her Skill until the young woman freed herself.
“What now?”
“Now? Either we hide here and trick them into thinking we’ve left…or we run. We have to run at some point.”
Plus this basement was not exactly furnished with helpful little gaps two young women could squeeze into. It looked like a damn root cellar, and when they crept up the old stairs, they found the door wasn’t even locked!
“Idiots.”
Damia rolled her eyes as she pushed the trap door open. The noise intensified, and she motioned to Binevy.
“Quietly, we’ll get up, find a window, and bail out. We just have to scream for a Golem and we’ll be safe.”
They emerged into some kind of closet room in what sounded like an inn or other such building. Excellent. Damia went for the door, levered it open a bit, and realized a single flaw in her plan.
Escaping the basement and getting onto the streets worked—so long as the building you escaped into had a handy exit.
As opposed to, say, a room full of lowlifes. She froze the moment she saw the room full of carousing criminals.
Great. This is some kind of safehouse for gangs, and our captors probably rented the basement so they could begin ransoming us. She began to close the door, going back to Plan B, which was hide or throw her aura or—
The problem with a room full of lowlifes was that they might be scum, criminals, and whatever other ill-appellation you wanted to give them, but they were…good at that.
Some of the laughter and music playing—a very familiar guitar and Hobgoblin—died down suddenly, and there was a voice.
“Oi. Did anyone else just see the door to the cellar open?”
“Yep.”
“My [Criminal Instincts] went off too.”
“Right, right. Just checking if any of you were too stupid to notice. So d’you reckon it’s some brave [Rogue] or adventurer going in to rescue whomever’s down there, or them escaping? Knew we should have checked on those three idiots’ work.”
Damia squeezed her eyes shut. Then she threw the door open.
“Run, Binevy! Help! Lord Xiteg—”
They made it three steps before they were captured. Then the members of whatever gang this was had both young women trussed up again—expertly—and were laughing about it. One checked their bindings.
“Seems like someone knows a cutting Skill. Damn, you’re lucky you got to us, Miss Kidnappee. Look at that; they nearly lost their hands. Idiots tied ‘em too tight.”
“Amateur work. Should we charge the idiots three when they get back?”
They were caught. Damia groaned as the group went back to listening to the song-crystal of Numbtongue’s performance. She made one attempt as they began to shove her to the basement.
“I’m important enough to ransom. If I promised you gold, would you accept a better offer than whatever they’re paying?”
“From the Merchant’s Guild and from Lord Xitegen? No thanks, we like not having a Golem’s foot in our brains.”
The [Rogues] laughed. Damia groaned again, but at least they wouldn’t lose limbs because of blood loss. She stared around and heard that Hobgoblin’s voice.
“That song. How is it already on song crystal?”
It was so banal, but now she knew it was no less than Numbtongue, the [Bard] of The Wandering Inn, she was amazed—both by the content of the song and the coincidence. She’d been in the presence of a legend! The [Rogues] blinked.
“You know it? It does get around fast. We got put onto it, and it’s hell of good music.”
“You like music?”
“Who doesn’t? Mind your head, Miss Servant. It’s called ‘Woman of Nothing’. Reminds me of my last breakup. Alright, I can tell you’re being charming. In the basement you go.”
Damnit, they were so good! Damia groaned, and she muttered.
“Think, think…”
Her eyes snapped open. Song crystal? How could they know about it unless—she began struggling at the entrance to the basement.
“Hey. Hey! You—do you know a pair of [Gang Leaders] who just entered the city? Big names. Faces, I bet. One’s got a collapsible spear, the other’s got two daggers. They were riding the Unmarked Coach! Or—or the Sisters of Chell!”
The [Rogues] paused. One of them about to shove the wiggling Damia down the stairs frowned.
“How the hell d’you know the boss?”
“Your boss? I was sitting with him in the coach! We survived a half-Elf together! Tell them it’s me! The Djinni was kicking down trees when we left!”
The group hesitated. One of them let Damia swivel around, and she saw a [Rogue] with a scar down one milky eye glancing at the others.
“Sounds like a trick. She’s got a fancy mouth on her. If this is some [Bard] trick—”
“Just ask! How could I trick a high-level [Gang Boss]? I was on the Unmarked Coach! With the Sisters of Chell’s bean-flicker!”
One of the [Rogues] snorted.
“She even knows what they call ‘em. Damn…wouldn’t hurt to ask, right?”
They hesitated. Eventually, one put Damia downstairs, and she sat, heart pounding. It was only about twenty minutes before the door opened again, and someone went strolling downstairs.
“Well, well, well. Lady Damia Reinhart? I know we said no names, but I suppose you can’t blame me for hearing it from the three yokels who got you. Alright, let ‘em loose. I suppose friends from the Coach who escaped a crazy half-Elf deserve to give each other a turn.”
The spear-carrying male [Gang Boss] grinned at Damia, and she sagged in relief. Then spat.
“Who puts a kidnapper’s basement in an inn?”
“Someone who gets tired of them getting busted out.”
…You had to admit it was a smart idea.
 
——
 
It was a breach of the underworld etiquette, Damia using the [Gang Boss]’ name. But he didn’t give his to her, and as he acknowledged, they’d had an incident already.
He had her and Binevy sipping on drinks as he introduced her to his crew.
“I suppose it’s my fault you ended up in there. Those three were just local toughs. We’re offering clandestine entry into Celum, which was why they got in contact with us. We offer other services too; we were setting up the ransom. Did we even bother the Reinharts yet?”
He frowned, and one of the apologetic [Rogues] coughed.
“No, Boss. It was gonna go to you.”
“Good! Because I don’t fancy some [Assassin] coming down south to put a dagger up all our asses! Gah. Just as well. No hard feelings?”
He offered her a hand, and Damia took it, smiling.
“Not from me. But those three [Highway Robbers]…”
The man had scars on his wrists and hands—though he wore a cat burglar’s gloves. She realized his gang was actually more of the [Rogue] type. Kidnapping, burglary, but not as much thugging.
“Oh, they’re all dead. Unless you’d like to see it done? I’m not keeping them around after this hassle.”
Binevy swallowed at the cheerful, careless way he said that, and the man eyed Damia, but she didn’t even blink. That was also a Reinhart for you.
“I’m just curious how you’ll do it. I don’t feel the need to be vindictive.”
“Very reasonable. I think we’ll just put them in hoods, walk ‘em out into a field, and put a crossbow bolt between their eyes…is what I’d say if I knew they were getting killed. Or giving orders. Y’know, now that I think about it, I don’t think I’ll say anything about them. They might just vanish. Who knows what happened to them? Not me. Not you.”
So that’s how you passed a truth stone. Damia nodded and sighed.
“What a day. And here I was worrying about finding work.”
“Hah! If a noblewoman can’t find work, what’s the world coming to? It’s hard in Celum too—damn Golem Lord is fast. He busted into a safe-room himself the other day. Well…we’ll see. Let me get someone to walk you to a safe street, and again, I hope we’re all very square. No Golems, no problems.”
The warning was that if she called Xitegen down, she’d regret it, but Damia just shook her head.
“I prefer someone who at least seems to like me than an elusive [Gang Boss] with a grudge. I doubt Xitegen could catch you even if he brought every Golem he’s got.”
He relaxed a bit.
“Smart lady. Now, if you want my advice, there’s just no profit these days in the actual action. You knock down a Jeweler’s Guild and the Watch is on your ass like the Brothers. The real money’s in having the entrance to Celum that the Watch don’t know about. The intermediary’s money. Our friend, the female [Shank Boss]? She’s old school.”
Damia appreciated that. She grinned at the man.
“It’s [Sharp Dame], not lady, actually. I like old school, though. I like Liscor. It’s got that ‘old school’. Do you know about the [Innkeeper]?”
He sat there, and his wide smile thinned a bit. The man took a drink.
“The innkeeper? I know a bit. Wanted to visit but—well…not my turf. As for bein’ old school, just remember it’s all glory and guts until it runs out. Turns out we shoulda split at Invrisil. Not your fault, or even the Coach’s; we just didn’t know the score. That safehouse that got busted into? Her gang got nabbed by the Lord of Thighs himself. She’s hanging tomorrow, noon. If you want to see her off, I’ll buy drinks.”
Damia’s smile vanished. The [Gang Boss] lifted a mug as the rest of his gang did too.
“Knew her sixteen years. That’s a real Lord of House Terland for you. You grow up into a fellow half as scary as him, I reckon you’ll do just fine, Lady Damia.”
 
——
 
For some reason, that made Damia feel bad. She didn’t even know the female [Gang Leader]’s n—
“Varnie. The Sorcerer’s Knives gang. Well, what’s left of ‘em is going up. They fought hard, but you don’t fight a Golem with knives.”
…The other [Gang Boss] told her that since that was that. She almost asked if he wouldn’t break out a fellow friend or acquaintance like that, but then she reconsidered.
No matter how good a [Rogue] was, Lord Xitegen probably had some of the finest Golems on the prison. The odds of evading Golem eyes in a limited space…no.
She sat in Liscor after her kidnapping, a bit melancholy. Her servants were arriving; the first had already presented themselves for her security.
“Lady Reinhart, I’m your [Bodyguard]. Don’t know the job that well, but I had teachin’ from Lady Cosoi’s staff, and I’ll do my best.”
…A literal farmboy stood to attention. His name was Sule, and he looked like had been born with hay in his hair. His accent and innocent demeanor as he stood straight, forgetting to check for any kind of danger around Damia, had her smile then instantly turn to Binevy.
“Tell me this is a joke.”
“He’s…trustworthy, Lady Damia. He comes from House Reinhart lands, where your family is, um, actually respected. Lady Cosoi draws new servants from there.”
Damia almost told the boy to get lost, but she felt like it’d be like kicking a puppy. Not something you did, especially because Binevy smiled worriedly at Sule.
[Servants] liked other [Servants]. Damia still frowned.
“My aunt’s no fool. Why’d she hire him? No offense, Sule, but you are not [Bodyguard] material.”
He only appeared vaguely hurt by that and saluted her.
“No, Lady Damia! I’m not! But I can hit any fellow who’s trying to kidnap you! I have practice with a club and everything!”
…Was this so she had someone vaguely appealing to sleep with? That was Damia’s first thought; he was well-built. Country strong or whatever the saying was. Then she thought about it harder.
“Think, think—”
She prodded the side of her head. Binevy told the open-mouthed Sule to stop staring—this was his new [Lady], and he’d better get used to her, uh, eccentricities. Damia, though, had a thought.
Aunt Cosoi might do it for fun, but I doubt she actually cares about me that much. Or she’d send some note or something. 
“Binevy, was Sule on the employee list before I came to Cosoi?”
“Well before, Damia. I mean, Lady—”
“That’s fine.”
So, he was chosen for a reason. Loyalty, most likely. Aunt Cosoi probably doesn’t like opportunists like the family. But why him? She eyed Sule, then spoke.
“Do you have [Lesser Strength], Sule?”
He blinked at her.
“No, Lady Damia.”
“Ah, then—”
“I got [Enhanced Strength]. And [Lesser Toughness]. It was exactly what Lady Cosoi asked about.”
Ah. Damia’s brows cleared instantly, and she smiled. Binevy did a double-take and checked her notes.
“Country strength indeed. And potential. You’ll need more training, Sule. But rest assured, I intend to treat my loyal servants quite well.”
He beamed.
“I reckon that’s good, Lady Damia. I was worried you were like, uh, the rest of your—”
Binevy stomped on his foot, but Damia waved a hand.
“No, no. I understand. Binevy, manage the staff. Now…”
…What did she do? Well, she had to ask Timbor if he had another room for her staff, and he warned her he might run out. So they needed that housing, which cost money, and Damia had no idea what was going on.
Gloomily, she sat down. There had to be something! She felt like she had a bunch of nothing. And who should come by in her moment of weakness other than—
“Hello, Miss. Still down on your luck?”
“Hey, Catsel. Still recruiting for the stupid dig site?”
The [Recruiter] flashed her a grin. He was Salazsarian, apparently, and Sule eyed him like a threat, but the Drake just flashed his card.
“Plenty of work if you’re stuck in a rut.”
“I’m a [Lady], Catsel.”
He blinked at her. Then he actually grew more interested.
“A [Mine Lady]? Because if you were, I could offer a far larger bounty—”
“No. Those don’t exist.”
“Not in the north, apparently. Work’s hard.”
He sighed and walked off to another table. Damia was glad to see someone else struggling to do their job. She muttered.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig. Wait, Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
She sat up in interest. And she approached the table where three Drakes and a Human were waving him off. They seemed like they were around her age, and, she guessed, none of them were apprentices or had the most well-paying jobs. Mud covered their britches, and they’d come in tired and swearing about hauling jobs. But they weren’t having the pitch either.
“Listen, dude. We don’t want work.”
“It pays better than a [Hauler]’s job. Trust me. And you’ll have an actually valuable class.”
“Oh yeah? Who wants to mine for a living?”
“The pay’s double what you’re making, and there’s bonuses.”
That drew the quartet up, but one of the Drakes just snatched the card and read.
“All the way in—I have no idea where this is!”
“It’s not far via the door—”
“Listen, listen. No one wants to go digging in some nowhere place. This is the spot to be. Between Esthelm, Liscor, Celum, all we gotta do is find the right work and get a few levels. Who’d go off to a place without even working toilets?”
The Human interrupted, a young woman with impressive biceps, and everyone nodded. Catsel was biting his lip. He was really not the best at this pitch, or he’d used his Skills throughout the day. Damia was sure he could find anyone who wasn’t employed, hence him continuing to seek her out.
However…Damia jumped into the conversation, because she couldn’t help it.
“Hold on, Catsel. This is for Wall Lord Ilvriss, right? The Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
The group of potential workers eyed her suspiciously. So did Catsel.
“Er, yes.”
Damia peered around. No one got it? She spoke to the table.
“Are all of you new to Liscor or something?”
“Hey. Us two are from Cellidel. We followed Senior Guardsman Relc here—this idiot’s moved from Pallass, and our Humie friend is from Esthelm. We’ve all been here for months!”
They glared at her, and Damia threw up her hands.
“So you know about The Wandering Inn.”
“Of course.”
Timbor half-turned as a few other patrons looked up. Damia pointed at Catsel.
“But you don’t know about Wall Lord Ilvriss? The Wall Lord who came here with Zel Shivertail? The one who danced with a certain [Princess] in Oteslia, proposed to an [Innkeeper], and gave her his ring? He’s fought monsters at Liscor! Dead gods, he charged Fissival during the Meeting of Tribes! That Wall Lord is digging in the north, and you think the best opportunity’s here?”
She pointed northwest as the table blinked at her. Damia was excited. She saw it, suddenly.
“If I wanted to get a piece of some levels, I’d be going there in a shot. Let alone getting paid by Salazsar. They’re the richest of the Walled Cities! Either you get paid and come back or you run into a Solstice event and come out with lots of levels!”
“Hold on, if it’s so profitable, why aren’t you going there?”
One of the Drakes raised a claw, and Damia sighed.
“I’m a [Lady]. I’ve never swung so much as a hammer once in my life. You think I have the muscle to dig?”
She gestured self-deprecatingly at herself, and the Human girl snorted.
“Fair point. Gimme that card again, Rosc. Hey, the pay is nice…and we’re strong.”
“I dunno, it’s pretty damn far.”
“Still, Wall Lord Ilvriss. I know that guy. Didn’t we hear he was actually decent? I heard Watch Captain Zevara liked him.”
“Anyone that stick-in-the-mud likes has got to suck.”
“If he knew the Tidebreaker…”
“You want to die?”
“You want to haul campaign boxes for the stupid election all day? Who you voting for?”
They were arguing, and someone else came over to check the card. Damia stepped back and nudged Catsel.
“You’d better have a Skill or some charm. Hurry up before you lose them.”
He jumped in hurriedly, and she watched him sign no less than five people up right then and there and get more interested names. To her surprise, he came over to her as he promised to run and get more details for the people who wanted them.
“Damia, right? I think I owe you this!”
He handed her a gold coin. She blinked at it.
“What—for that?”
He looked very happy.
“It’s hard enough getting people to sign up, even with all the incentives the Wall Lord’s company gave me! That was a good pitch. I’m going to copy it. How do you know all that about the Wall Lord?”
“I keep my ears open.”
“Well, do you have time? Because if you do, I’ll cut you in on my profits.”
Damia stared at the gold coin, and her brain lit up. She pocketed the coin, then smiled at Catsel.
“Absolutely not.”
“Oh, well, then—”
He turned, and she walked with him to the door.
“Who’re you working for? Put me in touch with them and sign me up as a [Recruiter]. I don’t want the class, but I have charisma-Skills. I don’t want a cut—I want a job.”
Her eyes gleamed, and she remembered her advice. Don’t just provide a service, be the middleman. Who had more gold than a desperate Wall Lord? Catsel blinked at her, then shrugged.
“I could put you in contact with the supervisor, but listen, I’ve been doing this for weeks. You don’t have a chance, good spiel or not. No offense.”
“Really?”
She eyed him, then strode over to the table. Damia smiled down at the group toasting an adventure in the north.
“Hey, do all of you have friends who’re also searching for work?”
The Drakes and Human blinked at her.
“Sure we do.”
“In that case, I have four silver coins per person if you get them to join you. I’ll pay you for every friend you refer to me.”
“Four silver? You serious?”
One of the Drakes stood up, and Damia’s winked.
“Absolutely. So long as they actually sign up. And if they’re hesitant, let me talk to them. Actually, does anyone know another story about Wall Lord Ilvriss? I heard he once got literally hit in the head by a frying pan that the [Innkeeper] threw…”
 
——
 
By the end of the day, Catsel, who was working for Damia, reported they’d signed eighty-eight people. Which made Damia sad.
She’d been going for a hundred. However, her Skills seemed to have a strong effect, or maybe it was the way she talked Ilvriss up. She thought it was obvious.
 
“Anyone with eyes can see he’s up to something in the north. What kind of Drake goes digging up there for nothing?”
“Smelly? Dirty? Sure. You know that City Runner, Sasquatch? She’s being appraised to be a Courier, and she ran deliveries for The Wandering Inn.”
“Oh, sure, it’s probably going to be hard work. And maybe there’s nothing up there. If there’s not, you’ll see everyone back here a month or two later with spending gold. Or you’ll see us in the news. Your choice.”
 
Binevy had to remark after the eighteenth time hearing Damia talk someone into it.
“Lady Damia, you’re rather persuasive when you want to be!”
The Reinhart [Lady] winked at Binevy.
“I’m just being honest. Honesty is easier than lies.”
“But you talk up the inn so well!”
“Well…yes? Doesn’t everyone like the inn?”
“Not a lot of people. Are you going to, ah, be working like this?”
Damia Reinhart had gotten in touch with a bored [Supervisor] who worked in Ilvriss’ dig site. They’d signed her up with zero expectations on Catsel’s recommendation. After she’d reported eighty people, they’d begun telling her if she hit certain quotas they’d pay her very well.
…But only enough to make her a good living as a person. Damia shook her head, sighing.
“No. This is just good for a day. But it can’t pay all my servants’ incomes unless we just do this for a living. Plus, once we get enough people for Wall Lord Ilvriss we’ll be out of work unless I start Damia’s Recruiting Services.”
It wasn’t the worst idea in the world. However, Damia just felt like she was missing something. She thought of the [Gang Leaders], of the Wall Lord. There was money there, but she’d never recruit enough people, even if she did this sunup to sundown! The [Supervisor] had told her flat out that if she recruited a thousand people, they’d take all thousand.
They’re dying for more help, but experienced help. I get way more of a bonus for signing anyone with [Miner] Skills.
…Silverfangs…
An idea came into her head. Damia sat up on her bed and put her fingers to her temples.
“Wait. Wait…[Think Harder]!”
“Does she always do this?”
Sule whispered to Binevy. The young [Head Servant]’s eyes lit up.
“Oh! Lady Damia, what if you hired the Silverfangs for Wall Lord—”
It was a genius idea! Damia snapped at her.
“Shut up, that’s obvious!”
“Oh.”
There was something else. Something deeper. Damia’s eyes snapped open. She began to sweat as she tried to put it together. Then something went ding in her head, and she leapt up.
“I have it. It’s a Solstice event! A Damia event! I need—but if—we have to—”
She ran around, waving her hands as her two employees stared at her, and then stopped.
“It all hinges on one thing. We need the power of The Wandering Inn. If we can’t get it, it fails. Follow me!”
She ran down the steps, then turned.
“Wait. Binevy, my things. Get me the most slutty outfit we’ve got.”
Binevy exchanged a glance with Sule. He wore a happy expression. He’d heard you saw all kinds of stuff in House Reinhart. Good and bad.
 
——
 
“All aboard to Riverfarm? Choo, choo!”
Liska might have been getting a bit delirious after pulling a ten hour shift. She didn’t even know what she was saying; she’d just heard Kevin say it once.
The people in line were giving her worried looks, but she was doing her job. Too much, actually. Yelroan had come out twice to try and relieve her, but she’d insisted.
Working hard levelled you! Her girlfriend got it. Her new girlfriend.
I’m gonna work so hard today, then I get a day off, and it’s smacking lips time. Wait, that sounds terrible. I gotta be cool and impress her. 
Liska wobbled around deliriously.
“Man, I need a break.”
“And a drink, Miss Liska? Can I change your mind about having one? Is there anything you…want?”
The [Doorgnoll] turned and came face-to-face with Damia Reinhart. She stared at the [Lady]. Then down at her low-cut bosom.
“Whoa.”
She kept her eyes low as they had a conversation. Damia was speaking fast.
“I need a favor—”
“Hold on, hold on…one more second…”
Liska raised a paw, slapped her own cheek, and sighed.
“Whatever it is, no. I don’t know where the inn is, I don’t want to deliver whatever it is, no special treatment, no free money. Bye!”
She began shoving Damia to the door. Damia spluttered.
“Wait! I need your help! Only Liska, the [Doorgnoll] who held off Tyrion Veltras himself, can help me! Please! Isn’t there anything you want?”
Well, if she put it like that—Liska squinted at her.
“What makes you think you have anything to offer me? Besides, uh—my partner’s cool, but not throuple-cool. I think.”
She’d have to ask later, because that felt important to bring up, and a certain [Dancer] might really be into it. Which would be—but this [Lady] felt like trouble. Not that Liska knew her aside from today. But Damia was protesting.
“I can surely offer you something! Everyone wants something!”
“Listen, Lady. All I want is levels. Not gold, not s…all I want is levels!”
Liska snapped. But to her surprise, Damia smiled, and her eyes lit up.
“Oh, is that all? And here I was prepared to try sleeping my way to what I need. If it’s levels you want—listen, I have something I need help with. You don’t have to do anything illegal. Well, it’s mostly not illegal. Well, you won’t get in trouble. In any major way. I think. But it’ll level you, I’m positive! Just…”
She explained her idea in brief. Liska was about to shake her head before Damia got to her role. Then Liska wavered.
“That…sounds sort of awesome. And I’d probably level. But—”
She glanced towards the door. Damia snuggled up to her in a very distracting way.
“I swear, it’s not for anything criminal. Despite how it sounds. Plus, you know, House Terland did try to kill Wall Lord Ilvriss recently.”
“Yeah. They did. Yeah…hold on. Let me just get approval for this from, uh, my boss.”
Damia’s face fell as Liska rubbed at her chin.
“No, wait! Please! If you just—”
Too late. Liska wobbled off-duty as Peggy replaced her with a sigh, and Damia stood there, woebegone. It was over. Doomed!
…Where had Liska gone? Damia was wandering around the room, utterly mystified, convinced the [Doorgnoll] had some kind of secret door. And she might know where The Wandering Inn was! Maybe. That was just a dim theory Damia had.
She sat there for a long time, trying to figure out countermeasures and realizing she didn’t have any good ones. Worrying and waiting for an age.
Then the door opened, and Liska came back. Damia was about to throw herself at the Gnoll and beg when Liska held up a thumb.
“Boss approved it.”
“What. Really?”
Liska grinned.
“Yeah.”
Then Damia’s head came up and she beamed. She ran for it before Liska could ask her name and invite her for that drink. Only later did it occur to Damia to ask…who was Liska’s boss?
She had no idea.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin wasn’t exactly happy that evening. She was lying down, trying to sit up.
“Lyonette—Lyonette, it’s a valiant attempt, but let’s just do some classical dances. It’s fine—”
“I—can—do—”
She couldn’t get up. Her red hair was splayed over the ballroom floor like blood, and her cracks were showing, an angry, unhealed red.
She hurt.
She couldn’t move. Her legs…she refused to show him her frustration, but tears sprang to the corners of her eyes.
After three dance meetups, something was abundantly clear about the Highstepper.
Lyonette couldn’t do it.
Now, this wouldn’t be a problem in a bubble. There were dances meant to break the Human condition, to crush the soul and spirit. If you couldn’t do the impossible, fine.
Here was the problem: Lyonette couldn’t do the dance. It was abundantly clear that Ilvriss could.
He’d come back from the dig site several times by now, riding in and out before dawn to justify the excursion. He claimed he enjoyed the time at the inn so much it was worth it, and [Twofold Rest] certainly made up the travel time. He’d even found time to exercise.
“Lots of nervous energy with the mine monsters. I engaged them twice, but everyone shouted at me so much—I can’t risk my life.”
So he’d actually practiced the dancing, which he claimed had killed his ankles. Lyonette believed it; she’d been so excited, doing her own stretches and practice to get back in shape.
Right until she’d realized something.
His stamina, his ability to twist, to keep up with the rhythm of the dancing, to even have his muscles remember the complex pattern of the Highstepper? It was incomparable to her abilities.
Her condition. The damage she’d taken from Erin. [Crippled Reflexes]. Lyonette had told herself she could get past it all, but even with [Flawless Attempt], there was a point where her legs just gave out or she failed to move with the rhythm of the dance.
She had no energy. After six minutes of dancing, it was gone. Six minutes! She knew how much she could dance. Before this…
“Just give me one chance. Go—go practice with Colfa, please, Ilvriss? I’ll…”
Lyonette, panting, had Ushar help her up. She gulped water, trying to recover as their instructor and Ilvriss practiced the dance. The worst part was seeing Ilvriss deliberately do a prat-fall to pretend like he wasn’t getting it.
Colfa had picked up the Highstepper once she’d realized Lyonette was serious about practicing it. She and Himilt had come in and done it in six tries.
Damn Vampires.
Then Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont had tried to help demonstrate parts of the dance as they had been studying it. Dalimont had sworn off it after literally stomping on his own foot, but Dame Ushar had managed most of it with Ilvriss.
Damn Thronebearers.
The final blow, though, was seeing Nanette and Mrsha go tap-dancing past Lyonette, doing a complicated shuffle that was part of the Highstepper. The [Princess] beamed at them, then burst into tears.
 
——
 
“I’m sorry! I just—I want to be able to dance. I know I gave it up. I don’t regret it. I just wish I could…”
Everyone was trying to console Lyonette and not doing a great job.
“Don’t worry, Lyonette! It’s a hard dance! Mrsha and I just know how to do that one because we have young bones and we’re all floppy!”
Forsooth, it’s too difficult!
“It’s extraordinarily complex, Lyonette. I just happened to have a lot of training as a dancer, and I am a high-level [Lord]. You couldn’t get even a Named-ranker to dance it. Look at Elia.”
Elia Arcsinger wore an unusually offended expression, but she said nothing as they sat with Lyonette. The [Princess] sniffed.
“I just wish I could heal myself. We’ve tried so much. Healing potions just bring me back to this state…”
“No [Healer]’s helped?”
Ilvriss inquired. Lyonette shook her head.
“No. We subtly went to Demerra and other good [Healers]. Valeterisa tried [Restoration]—it makes sense. This is what I chose. It’s Skills, not just…but oh, I wish it could help! I asked some of the Free Antinium to try healing me, but it didn’t take and Pawn’s gone…”
Normally she’d have been a bit smug about things that faith couldn’t overcome. But he was in Khelt and this…
Lyonette sat there as Mrsha peered around, then fled the table. Nanette glared at the coward abandoning the Lyonette front, but then she turned.
“Lyonette, not even Colfa’s family can dance that well. Right, Colfa?”
The Vampiress was grimacing.
“No. The young ‘uns might, but the Highstepper literally can snap your ankle tendons. Saw it happen once. Not that they don’t gloat; my sister’s already asking me when I’ll have them over. That arrogant udderhead. Look, she even wrote to say she’s sorry we were dressed so poorly. And she sent these.”
She pulled out a pair of custom boots made from magical leather, stained a classic brown but so deep and each stitch so finely placed that Ushar sighed.
“Dead gods, what an insult. That monster.”
“They’re such good boots.”
Nanette spoke plaintively. Lyonette agreed. They were the boots of boots. And worse, Aronia had sent three pairs, one for her, Colfa, and Nanette.
“It must have cost a fortune. This is Splendor Leather. Softer than the ass of a Sariant Lamb and tough enough to walk on nails with.”
Colfa was so upset her hands shook. Ilvriss just stared blankly at the boots.
“They’re nice boots, I agree. What’s the problem?”
Everyone else glared at him.
“It’s showing us up, Ilvriss! Nanette, don’t do it!”
“I have to wear them! Don’t worry, Lyonette. I’ll paint them with all kinds of colors. I think I’ll do a blue base paint and put splotches on ‘em so they’re cool.”
“Oh, good idea Nanette. We can do a [Magical Picture] thanking Aronia for yours! Colfa!”
“I’d rather die.”
Colfa stroked the boots that had been dyed black for her. Truly, a diabolical gift. Lyonette would have to keep the boots, obviously. You didn’t throw away such an excellent gift! But she’d never put them on, unless she visited the Lischelles, obviously. Just stare at them and know how horrible it was.
Aronia was a monstrous woman who could have held her own in any Calanferian court. Worse…Lyonette turned the boots over.
“She put Calanfer’s seal on the bottom. How did she even get it custom…? I’m going to cry. I’m never going to learn the Highstepper, I’m not going to prevent Ilvriss from being ripped to shreds by a Golem, I’m not going to get Nanette to ever put anything fashionable on again—”
She began sobbing again. Ilvriss and Nanette frowned and chorused.
“Hey!”
Liska lifted a paw as she entered the inn and saw Lyonette crying. She shuffled over to a table. Not a good time.
It was Mrsha du Marquin, Lyonette’s first daughter, the one who knew her mother best, who came walking down the stairs and sighed heavily. She leaned against one wall with all the weight of the world on her. The [Survivor of Fates] slapped the wall for everyone’s attention, then wrote with a glowing nail.
I didn’t want to do this. But…it seems I have no choice. Come with me, Mother.
She held out her hand, and Lyonette looked up, tears stopping. She tried to get up, and Nanette and Ilvriss had to help her. The [Princess] wavered.
Should a mother be afraid of her daughter’s eyes? She tried not to be, but she shook slightly, and not just from her overtaxed limbs. She walked forwards.
“Hey…Lyonette…I made it. Don’t mind my condition. Slightly sick. Kids safe? Who’s this Drake fellow?”
Duke Rhisveri inchwormed out from behind a table, lying on his front. Nanette screamed, kicking him in the face. Lyonette glanced down at him.
“Why are you bright scarlet red? Is it contagious?”
His skin was flushed. Duke Rhisveri wobbled.
“No, no! Just—”
“Excuse me, then.”
She stepped over him. Well, stepped on his back.
“Ow! What the—”
Then past him and up the stairs. Rhisveri lay there. Then he rolled over to stare at Wall Lord Ilvriss.
“What’re you looking at? You’re the incompetent who can’t even deal with his own mess and has to call on a [Princess]? Disgraceful.”
He tried to sneer at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord stared at the scarlet duke, then the bulge in his pants. Rhisveri glanced down.
“Er—don’t mind that. That’s temporary—”
Ilvriss tossed Rhisveri out into the rain and watched the Duke roll down the hill and into the water uttering oaths the entire way down. The Wall Lord wiped his hands on his jacket, then went to wait for Lyonette.
 
——
 
Mrsha took Lyonette not into the [Garden of Sanctuary], or some dread location like the [Vault of the Mortal World], but to a spot…slightly less terrifying.
Only slightly.
Erin’s room. Lyonette froze as Mrsha entered, hopped onto the desk, and rummaged around.
“Mrsha, dear? W-what are you searching for?”
What I know is here, Mother. I want to cheer you up, and it occurs to me that if you were working so hard…listen. Erin has lots of secrets. Sometimes, they’re right to keep, but other times, I think she legitimately forgets. I saw her working on this one time. Well, I didn’t. Apista did. Where…here!
She was writing one-handed and came up with something with the other paw. Triumphantly, she spread it on the desk. Lyonette feared to approach.
 
HERE LIES THE LAST TOMB OF THE DRAGONLORD OF DAWN.
<Legendary Quest: Destroy the King of Krakens, Hebowhatisfibh, the Devourer of Nations!>
A guide to casting Tier 8 magic for dummies!
 
…Were not what was written there. Lyonette was terrified to look until she saw the weirdest of all things scribbled down in Erin’s usual sketches.
“Is that…a person dancing?”
Mrsha wore the pained expression of a child regarding someone with worse artistic skills than she had.
Yeah. And Ulvama tried to teach Erin art. Can you believe it? Look at this, Mom.
Lyonette didn’t know what she was looking at at first. There were illustrations, in the beginning stick-people but then a bit more refined, of people waving their arms around. Then little black marks on the ground, reminiscent of ants.
She thought it was some devilishly complex code on the scroll before she remembered it was Erin.
“If it’s a code, it’d be in chess notation. This…wait a second.”
She saw lines pointing to the footmarks and blinked.
“Are these instructions for a dance, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl nodded.
I’m pretty sure they are. Apista said Erin was ‘doing stupid dances, cursing, and writing it down to show Ulvama’. Remember her promising to give the Lord of the Dance some magical dances? I think this is it. Problem is…I don’t think she knows how to write dance choreography.
That was abundantly clear. No one had taught Erin how you actually noted down a dance’s steps. Which, to be fair, was really hard to do in the first place, representing three-dimensional movement and timing on a page.
Erin’s answer was to do a bunch of little footprints that represented where you should be and sketches of poses. As well as incomprehensible shorthand.
 
Do the hip waggler here! 
Very hard. Hurts the back.
I dunno if you’re supposed to go left or right here. Either? Wish I had that ghost around.
 
Just as Mrsha had said. Lyonette’s fingers were trembling as she gazed down at something fit for a kingdom’s treasury. The kind of thing you’d pass down for generations.
A magical dance.
Mrsha held the scroll out to Lyonette.
If you can’t dance the Highstepper, Mom, what about this?
“Mrsha, are you sure?”
We can ask Erin when she checks in for the week. But I reckon it’s fine. Here, this is the most complete one. Um, don’t take that one.
She snatched another scroll back from Lyonette. And there it was. The girl who’d seen the many paths of fate hid that one behind her back as Lyonette hesitated. That last scroll was black vellum and drawn on in red.
“What one’s that, Mrsha?”
I think it calls someone. Things get…complicated if you do that one right. In the best case scenario. Use this one instead.
Mothers were allowed to be frightened of their daughters. Sometimes. Lyonette took the scroll and peered at it. Then? She smiled.
 
——
 
A little while later, Lyonette, Ilvriss, a fascinated Colfa, and the staff were in the ballroom, pouring over the plans and insulting Erin roundly.
“This makes no sense. Dalimont?”
“I fear my teachings have not prepared me for…perhaps like this?”
“No, drat. It’s just like Erin.”
“Ancestors. Are you sure it’s not in code?”
But they were having fun. Trying this new dance, which was interesting, and they had permission!
Erin checked in once a week. Briefly, and not with Lyonette who had, um, excuses, because she still didn’t want to let Erin know she had inherited her weakness. Her response to Nanette had been—
“What? You found my sacred writings? Aw, c’mon! …No, I didn’t forget about—stupid [Pavilion of Secrets]. I was just…saving it. For moments like this. Go ahead and use it. But not the one on black paper. Why is Lyonette dancing with Ilvriss? No, she doesn’t need a reason, but—”
Permission granted. Magical ghost dance obtained! Figuring it out was the fun! After watching Dalimont do a few moves, everyone was laughing. And Lyonette got a tap on the shoulder from Liska.
“Miss Lyonette? I have a weird request. Can I, uh, bother Lord Xitegen Terland?”
“Lord Xitegen? Absolutely not, Liska! Hold on, let me just—”
 
——
 
Lyonette’s legs gave out three minutes into trying to join the others dancing. They fell silent. She lay on the floor and realized the same problem applied. Mrsha slapped her forehead.
Fool of a Mrsha!
Lyonette stared at the ceiling.
“Liska?”
“Er, I’m just gonna tell the lady no. Sorry, I’ll just clock off and—”
“Do it.”
The Terlands were not her friends. The Lischelles were not her friends. Lyonette spoke softly.
“Xinthe? Please help me to my rooms.”
“Lyonette, why don’t we—”
“I just need a minute, Ilvriss.”
“We don’t need to—”
“No. It’s a magical dance. You’d be a fool not to learn.”
She limped off. Feeling…
Weak.
 
——
 
The despair of a [Princess] turned into acceptance of another day as it dawned. Wall Lord Ilvriss actually hung around today to learn the magical dance, though he didn’t want to tell her that. Everyone was practicing it in the inn, and Lyonette’s one comfort was that no one could do it.
Colfa’s the best dancer with mom out of the way. Can you learn a Skill without classes?
“If it’s magic, yes. If it’s a Skill, no…”
“My leg! My leg!”
Nanette was screaming. Asgra, Sticks, and Picker bore her in; she was the first casualty. Nanette had pulled a leg muscle which refused to unpull. It turned out Erin’s dance was not only hellishly hard, but provoked that kind of thing.
Small joys. Lyonette picked at her breakfast despondently.
I knew this would be the case. I can’t keep up with anyone anymore. I have to be a [Princess] in many ways. I need to sit often, I need to lead by intellect and poise, not…activity. That’s fine.
It wasn’t fine, but she resolved herself to do it. Then she had a thought.
…What was Liska talking about yesterday? She hadn’t really remembered.
 
——
 
Lady Damia Reinhart had a schedule to keep. So she met with the Silverfangs after riding through the night without actually, in fact, sleeping.
She caught a few winks, but she was alive on coffee alone as she met with [Clan Leader] Plisce, the local head of the Silverfangs. He was a polite [Silversmith] with good negotiating Skills. No warrior. He had not come to the north for a fight, though his Chief Huntress was ready for one.
And he heard her out, recognizing her status. Then he refused.
“Miss Damia, I am afraid that even if it is lucrative, my tribe does not wish to work for a Walled City. Even Salazsar. You must understand, after the Meeting of Tribes…”
He wanted to let her down gently. Rayna eyed Damia, whom she half-liked, and was surprised by the young woman smiling.
“I completely understand that given your history, Clan Leader Plisce. But, I believe, this is the one exception. For Wall Lord Ilvriss, of all Drakes, might have a tiny bit of respect from Gnolls, wouldn’t he?”
She’d saved that part for last. Plisce’s ears twitched.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss? Wait…”
He had to confer with Chieftain Akrisa via scrying spell, of course. And she was highly skeptical of some [Lady] of House Reinhart vouching for Ilvriss.
“Hrr. What is your angle in this, Lady Damia?”
The [Lady] won the trust of Gnolls with the power she had learned in Liscor: honesty.
“I want to get paid the referral fee, Chieftain Akrisa.”
They blinked at her, then snorted and began to ask what kind of rates they might take if they went and had a look. But Damia had another knife to stab into them with.
“Not only would Wall Lord Ilvriss hire every [Miner] you have—and his company is known for working well with Gnolls, Chieftain Akrisa—but I have it on good authority that the, ah, Cowpat Plains are not held by any noble or city.”
“Meaning…wait, are you serious?”
Meaning that the Gnolls had grazing room. There might be conflicts with the local [Ranchers], but Damia bet there was plenty of room for Silverfang camps. And as everyone said, no one had a beef with Gnolls. She was worried that might change, and Akrisa said as much.
“We will promise nothing. I will have my tribe head that way; it seems the east is less developed, so we might settle there if anywhere, but this is no promise, Lady Damia.”
“Absolutely not, Chieftain Akrisa. And I intend to go right with you! My people are still recruiting from Liscor and other cities, and as such, I’ll go with you all!”
Especially if it meant getting paid for all this. Plisce blinked.
“If you are willing, we will ride with you, though it will take time, even if we can all use the door. And to strike camp.”
“Excellent! I have something to do, anyways. I’ll see you at the portal stone at, oh, one o’ clock?”
Damia was hopping from foot-to-foot, and the Magical Carriage they’d rented at great expense from the Mage’s Guild was ready to go with Binevy. The Gnolls watched her dash back and order the carriage to head straight to Celum.
“Do you think this is some kind of grand trick, Chieftain Akrisa?”
The Gnoll was frowning as she chomped down on mustard pickles.
“Hrm. Who can say? Reinharts are known to be tricky and dangerous, and I have heard nothing but ill, even about Magnolia Reinhart. But there is a funny saying about them too. And she is young. Better to be valuable than smiled and condescended to. And Wall Lord Ilvriss is no enemy in how he has acted. Confirm it with The Wandering Inn.”
“I will do so.”
Akrisa paused, then leaned forwards.
“Then tell my sister to stop sleeping with scaled rodents. I told her it was a bad idea.”
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland was attending the hanging not out of any real interest, but because Varnie of the Sorcerer’s Knives was a Face. The odds of someone trying something without security was high.
Hence why Primera, Seconda, and his best Golems surrounded the square, ready to kill anything that so much as sneezed near the executioner’s noose.
He didn’t care for executions, but he was making a statement. There weren’t enough specialized Skill-blocking manacles for the rest of this woman’s gang, so they’d be executed later. A Face was a statement in itself.
This is my city. If you want to conduct crime, do it elsewhere. He rather felt like it was almost wasting time, even if he had taken out a famous gang. He kept thinking of Ilvriss and his Great Aunt, on the move for the first time since…
He kept eying the noose with that weird prickle down his spine, checking to make sure that yes, Erin Solstice was in Baleros and Lyonette was in The Wandering Inn, or at least, not in Celum.
Sometimes, you developed an instinct. He watched as the blank-faced woman stood there, hands behind her back, and the [Executioner] put a noose around her neck and readied the trapdoor. You just took your eyes away for one moment, and blam, there was a [Swashbuckler] trying to cut the ropes or whatnot.
“Hailarrow Golems, full spread of [Arrows of Blast].”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
Lord Xitegen was prepared for everything, he liked to think. What shocked him, genuinely, what he wasn’t prepared for even with his exposure to The Wandering Inn—which was a bit like a plague—was to see Lady Damia Reinhart clambering onto the platform.
“Intruder.”
Seconda and the Golems took aim, and then she spoke.
“Member of the Five Families detected. Do not kill or maim.”
The young [Lady] had frozen when the Golems aimed at her, and she relaxed. She was indeed…smarter to realize they wouldn’t kill a member of the Five Families on sight. Rather stupid in many other ways, Xitegen concluded.
“Well, I expected something else. Primera, grab the young woman and give her ten across the rear, then throw her into Invrisil.”
The Golem began to march forwards, and Damia shouted.
“Wait! Lord Xitegen Terland, I demand to speak to you as a member of the Five Families!”
He held up a hand, sighing. Xitegen saw Damia’s one bodyguard staring at Primera and not really wanting to square up with the Golem. He cleared his throat as the [Gang Leader] regarded Damia with unguarded emotion.
They know each other. His eyes narrowed.
“If you want to invoke the Five Families, Lady Damia, I listen. For your sake, I hope it’s good.”
She swallowed. Then she closed her eyes and spoke.
“I realize I intrude on your domain, Cousin. Celum is indeed yours. You took it and have remade it, even if Magnolia was here first. But you have made it better with the might of Golems. Once you were moved to it…after a decade of hiding in the north. Truly, it feels like my aunt was the only member of the family who cared about the south. I suppose that’s why, for all your commendable, lauded thighs, you have such a paunchy frame.”
The crowd had come here for an execution. They hadn’t realized it included a roast. Their heads turned to Lord Xitegen apprehensively, and several leaned out of the way of his Golems. He just exhaled.
“You have about twenty more seconds before I lose my temper.”
Damia went on, stuttering a bit, but getting louder. What she didn’t know was that she had an audience beyond Celum. Some of the Gangs of Izril were watching to witness a Face dying. Karsaeu herself was in the crowd; she’d choked on some popcorn when she saw Damia up there. The member of Haple and the Sisters of Chell eyed the [Lady] as she cleared her throat.
“I-I shall! Who could argue you are in the right place at the right time, Xitegen? You faced the Goblin King. You were there at the Winter Solstice, an event so few even believe occurred! My family barely believes the evidence of their eyes! A shame on it! It feels as though Magnolia’s Skill only half-left some of them! Or perhaps they were always halfwits.”
Lady Desinee El stopped in the midst of walking to the Merchant’s Guild. She stared at Damia. The [Lady] pointed at Xitegen, whose brows had risen.
“Who could deny there stands Xitegen Terland, first of his house in nobility and pride and thighs?”
“Is that really all I’m known for?”
He whispered to Primera.
“Yes, Lord Xitegen. They are exemplary thighs.”
Well, if even Golems thought so…he waited, and Damia’s eyes flashed. She spoke slowly and with more dignity than he expected.
“I envy you, Cousin. For being what I wish I was. I am trying. But I say to you one thing: for all you are Lord Xitegen, and you have been there when calamity threatens to fight it, for all you are a brave, high-level man—you seem so complacent as to sicken me. There, but for a door, stands Liscor! The Wandering Inn, wherever it is! A Wall Lord dares the north, and instead of aiding him, of going to see anything, you let your family take the most banal of courses!”
She pointed down at him and his eyes narrowed. He didn’t like that. Because…Damia went on, glancing behind her.
“Someday, the Goblin King will come again, or the moons fall, and where will you be? Here, no doubt, Xitegen! But that is all. You have come creeping into Magnolia’s place, and reacted to the inn and the changing of eras! No more. I didn’t think that the Thigh Lord of Izril liked to stand still as a statue.”
Oooh. Lady Desinee winced. Every head swung back to Lord Xitegen, and he stood there, face growing much like his Golems. He took a breath.
Then he heard a snap, a thunk, and [Gang Leader] Varnie landed on the ground behind Damia. She sat up, and Damia whirled as Xitegen’s eyes narrowed.
“Ah, it worked. Good. Um—run—”
The [Gang Leader] incredulously got up, and the [Executioner] stared at the noose.
The noose…which had been cut nearly in half by a tiny blade while no one was watching. In plain sight. [Sharp Remark].
Xitegen figured out what Damia was trying to do in a moment. He pointed.
“Kill the [Gang Leader] and arrest—”
“Attack!”
Seconda blocked him a second before the smoke pellet exploded in his face. Xitegen’s rings flashed, and he coughed, waving a hand. Then it was chaos. He heard his speaking stone activate.
“Lord Xitegen! The prison! There’s been a prison break! Someone’s disabled the Golems! They’re running through the streets!”
Ah, another gang. Coordinated. Xitegen took cover behind Seconda, but he was tensing to leap forwards. He growled.
“Pursue and arrest the gang! And Lady Damia! Even for her, this is stupid. What—”
Another explosion of smoke above his head. Xitegen’s eyes narrowed.
[Rogues] were in the audience! They fired slingshots filled with marbles that exploded into mud, confusing flashes of magic, even a bunch of parakeets that obscured the Golems’ sensors. Damia Reinhart screamed.
“Run for it, Varnie! This way!”
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart’s conclusion was this: she wanted to save Varnie’s life. Not for any reason she understood. Just…they’d been on the carriage.
There was a saying among Reinharts she recalled as she ran, shouting at Varnie to get to the door. The [Gang Leader] sprinted as the other gang covered them. They were headed straight for the door that would save their lives.
Damia…almost made it. She had just seen Varnie dash through the door when Seconda, a seven-foot Golem running so hard and fast she shook the flagstones, caught her.
A Golem moving that fast in the pure form of a runner was terrifying. Damia nearly wet herself. She screamed, flailed, and realized she wasn’t dead when Lord Xitegen appeared.
Dead gods, he was fast. Some of his Golems were pelted with the distraction alchemy, but he just glanced at her.
“Do you know that [Gang Leader] or was that a Reinhart’s idiocy? I’ll deal with you later. Golems, kill that escapee.”
Primera ran towards the door and slammed into an invisible barrier. She didn’t recoil, just bounced with a sound like a brick wall hitting another. Xitegen paused.
The door was still open. Still active, and a panting [Gang Leader] was whirling, shouting for—someone walked forwards.
“Door to Invrisil. This way, Miss. Follow the Silverfangs. Oh hey, where’s the cute [Lady]?”
Liska peered around and spotted Damia, who waved at her. Xitegen spoke politely, but with that sense of a man feeling the walls of a trap closing.
“Liska. I am in pursuit of a known criminal, a Face, sentenced to death. Kindly admit my Golems.”
“Oh, hey, Lord Xitegen. Sorry, no can-do. No moving weapons of war or [Soldiers] through without explicit permission from the boss. Them’s the rules.”
Liska folded her arms, and Xitegen inhaled.
“I believe my cousin has bought your loyalty. I don’t believe that is wise, Liska. Allow me to purchase it or speak to Lyonette—”
“Oh, no. I’m not doing this because I’ve been bought. No one’s paid me a thing. I’m just doing this because I like Wall Lord Ilvriss. Don’t want to help send Golems near him.”
Now, the Lord of Thighs was silent. He spoke, the picture of politeness, but with an intensity that made Damia shiver. His aura was condensing around him, and it was pointed. Fast. Like a hail of arrows.
“Liska, I’m being polite. I am not warring with the inn—or you—because we have been quite helpful allies when the need arises. But I am running out of patience. I will go through that door, and you will regret it.”
“Sure. If you can. More annoying men have tried.”
Liska pulled down one eyelid and stuck out her tongue, trembling with nerves. But she held her ground.
She was so cool. Damia was beaming—until Xitegen turned to glare at her. In the end, he was many things. Pragmatic, friendly, athletic—but he was still a noble of the Five Families.
Pride flashed across his face. Pride and fury. He began to walk forwards towards the door. Liska lifted a paw.
“No one goes through this door that I don’t want to.”
 
——
 
Five minutes.
Five minutes and Damia’s mouth was open in delight—which made her hack and spit dust out. Five minutes and Celum’s citizens were watching, and Lady Desinee was wondering if she wasn’t going to be able to get to Liscor today and very impressed.
Five minutes and Lord Xitegen could admit he wasn’t stronger than Lord Tyrion Veltras. It stung mildly, but he was a pragmatic man. Liska was panting hard, but she held her paws out and grinned at him.
“You are indeed a valuable Gnoll, beyond belief, Liska Silverfang.”
“Th-thanks. And it’s nothing personal. Just…counterlevelling.”
He had to smile at that. So that’s how Damia had gotten her. A Reinhart after all. He still had to have his say.
“Neither is this. Seconda, drop Damia hard. You and Primera—break through that door.”
Liska swallowed. The two Golems advanced. Primera hit the space between the doorframe, and it sounded like a vast, hollowed gong. Liska staggered, wiped at her nose, and snorted out some more blood.
“Good. I was just warming up.”
Xitegen stormed away from the door as the real war began. He stood there, staring ahead, until Damia half got up.
“Don’t want her to see you smile?”
He peered down and put a foot on her back. Lord Xitegen spoke down to Damia.
“Tell me, Cousin. Why should I not hold this embarrassment to my authority against you? No…why rescue her? You have no business dealings with her, to my knowledge.”
He put more of his weight on her back, and she shouted. Then gasped.
“I just—felt like it! We shared a carriage ride! I don’t regret it! A Reinhart—a Reinhart’s loyal to their own!”
She shouted it at him, and he stopped pressing on her with aura and foot. Xitegen lifted his foot, and she rolled away. Binevy helped her mistress up, and Xitegen eyed her.
“A Face will cause death across the north. That is upon you, and I do not accept—”
“No. She won’t.”
Damia groaned. She felt squished. Xitegen glared at her as there was a thunderous sound from the door. The two Golems rebounded, glanced at him, then set themselves.
“Lord Xitegen, permission to activate spell effects?”
“Granted. Do not cause casualties or collateral damage. Explain.”
“Punishment.”
Damia whispered. She sat up, holding her back.
“You are the judge and jury here, Xitegen. Maybe she’s owed a death sentence, but I argue for a lesser punishment. I request a sentence of labor. Hard labor.”
“Such as…?”
“Mining.”
She gave him such an innocent, calculating expression he was reminded of Magnolia. Lord Xitegen tilted his head and saw the pieces.
“She will, of course, run.”
“If she doesn’t have any honor. You’ve broken her gang and shown her face, Cousin.”
“Whereas you want a pet dog, even one bathed in filth. Very clever, Cousin. And it just falls on me to take one upon my chin for the good of House Damia. At what point do I accept and not kill the [Gang Leader] when my Golems blow through Liska’s door? Because as strong as she is—”
He saw the flash out of the corner of his eyes and grunted.
“—She can’t block a Skillbreaking Fist, which Primera has. Take Lady Damia with us.”
He strode over to the door and walked through. Xitegen Terland held out a hand, blocking Primera a moment, then helped Liska up.
“Damn, damn, damn—”
“Get this young Gnoll a stamina potion and water. Take my handkerchief. It’s nothing personal.”
How did she block the first punch? He quite cordially shook her hand, then eyed the door dial.
“Where did they go?”
She refused to speak, so he snapped his fingers.
“Seconda, analyze the magical dial for the last activated mana stone. Change to that.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
He did know how to use his Golems. Lord Xitegen Terland strode through the door as Liska cursed, eying Damia as she was carried with him.
Why was she still smiling? He was prepared to go through anyone to kill that [Gang Leader]. He was not above being rude. He’d shove Lyonette to one side—gently since it seemed she was hurt—have Ishkr tossed out of his way, the delightful, respectful chap. Even have Miss Ryoka Griffin hung upside down and shaken if she appeared in front of him.
He was willing to be rude to anyone—
 
——
 
The Silverfang Gnolls were walking or riding towards their new job, and there were a lot of them. They had padded wagons, some with enchantments to avoid anyone stealing from them. Or even looking inside.
Like, say, a Golem. And they were very polite.
“Surely, you understand we cannot wait for our entire camp to be searched, Lord.”
The Gnoll [Huntress] smiled at him. He did not.
“If you are concealing a criminal—”
“Will you stop us, Lord? Upon the authority of…hrr…a Terland noble around Invrisil?”
He was scowling now. At Damia, who was beaming at the Gnolls. Xitegen pursed his lips.
“In pursuit of a Face, I am very tempted to.”
“If we must, Lord. It is a very public road, and I hate to see Gnolls being impeded by terrifying Golems.”
Rayna heaved a huge sigh and put up her hands. Xitegen’s cheek twitched.
If he knew for certain the damn [Gang Leader] was even here, he’d risk the embarrassment. Instead, he switched tacks.
“May I ask why you are taking Lady Damia’s side? House Terland has done nothing against Gnolls and expressed support for the tribes entering our lands, the few who have come. It seems odd t—”
Then he hesitated.
Closed his mouth. And Huntress Rayna gave him the sweetest smile imaginable.
“For such a generous Lord of House Terland, who allowed our passage on his lands but informed us the areas around Celum were his lands, not to be grazed upon? I cannot imagine why we’d hold a grudge.”
Lord Xitegen Terland inhaled and exhaled.
“I merely considered that House Terland intended to claim Celum. And as I said to your Chieftain, I would welcome a Gnollish tribe in my area under my governance. A separate entity in another power’s lands causes issues…”
He could have done it. He’d weighed the option, but the local [Farmers] and [Ranchers] had been afraid of the Silverfangs outproducing them and begged him to refuse.
Damia’s words felt like a poker in his back. Rayna bowed her head.
“Naturally, Lord Terland. Well then, shall we begin being strip-searched?”
Lord Xitegen knew when a battle was lost. He turned on his heel.
“Back to Celum. Root that other gang out for me, now.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
They began leaving, and he didn’t even bother arresting Damia; the Reinharts would make a stink, and he was tired. She tried to not look smug, so he nodded.
“Seconda, let Damia Reinhart go. After you give her a spanking.”
“What?”
“Of what duration and intensity, Lord?”
“Whatever you think is best. Beat, hearts of Golems.”
He strode away, shaking his head as an outraged voice rose behind him. Xitegen Terland needed a drink. He fancied he’d buy Liska one.
 
——
 
The [Doorgnoll] levelled. And so, presumably, would Damia.
But she paid a heavy price for it.
Literally, actually. The Silverfangs were much amused by all this, even the skullduggery. They’d had some qualms about being involved in politics, but their annoyance with Xitegen had swayed them.
However, the sight of Damia Reinhart’s, uh, comeuppance actually motivated them to let her lie in the wagons with some ice on her buttocks.
Even Varnie was mildly impressed. She’d been mostly silent until the Lord was gone, and she’d come out of the hiding spot by the road.
“Never had a [Lady] take, what, fifty across the ass for me?”
“D-do you have a healing potion?”
“Nope!”
Damia had heard—colloquially—such things could be fun. This was not fun. It hurt so bad she couldn’t believe it. Varnie just sat with her.
“So why’d you do it? And how? How’d you get Ferxon to join in? He doesn’t take risks. I knew he’d not go for me; it’d be suicide. Even if you laid it out for him…how?”
It wasn’t something that her friend had planned. This was all Damia. The male [Gang Boss], Ferxon, hadn’t actually been planning on trying to rescue Varnie. But Damia just smiled weakly.
“He’s not all logic. I barely had to pay him much for the distraction.”
“Ah, business.”
Varnie snorted. She sat there until Binevy came back with a poultice. Damia began to shout in agony when Binevy tried to apply it.
“I’ll do—”
The [Gang Boss] kicked Sule before he could do it and grabbed the poultice. And a towel, which she applied the cream to. The abrasive sensation did make Damia start crying. But then Varnie sat there.
“Most’ve my gang’s dead. At least those who came into Celum. That Lord takes no prisoners. Funny guy.”
“Don’t…try to kill him. He’s guarded, and those two Golems are top-tier.”
Damia’s head rose, and Varnie didn’t look at her.
“I won’t. Right now. It is how it goes. I reckon I owe you. Got a favor to collect?”
“We’re heading to a dig site…”
Varnie nodded. She sat there and exhaled. Then she just eyed Damia as the young [Lady] talked, cheeks flushed. She’d gotten to see a legend of the inn, made this all happen. She was smiling, but the [Gang Boss] was just as mystified as, well, everyone.
Damia Reinhart. Was she just not like the others? Or was there something Varnie didn’t know?
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland poured an upset Liska a drink at the bar of The Wandering Inn.
“I would offer to do it twice, but it only works, truly works, once. A clever Reinhart. If the rest of her family were so…agreeable…I’d be happier. Would you believe Damia Reinhart is rather young, innocent, and accordingly, likable?”
Liska had two wads of toilet paper stuffed up each nostril and was gloomy.
“I thought I could do it. I really did.”
“You held off two Terland Golems and myself for six minutes.”
“Yeah, only two. Only six. What I don’t get is…she is a Reinhart, right? Isn’t Magnolia the best of the lot?”
Everyone wanted to know that. Xitegen was the only man who could explain. He’d come to the conclusion after hearing Damia, and he exhaled.
“Best of the lot by what terms? She was always strident. She took her House over at sixteen; does that strike you as that likeable? She’s the most courageous in many senses, most devoted to common good. Best? No…no, let’s give it to dear Magnolia. There was still a reason for it. Loyalty.”
Liska spat her drink onto Asgra and got a punch. She apologized as Xitegen eyed the Goblin, but forbore comment. He pushed his drink back, though. Then he spoke.
“A bar in Celum. My treat.”
He rose, and Liska dragged herself up. Xitegen walked towards the door with her.
“It’s often a joke. Reinhart loyalty. But they are loyal in their twisted ways. A den of vipers that protects only their own. There’s a reason we were the Five Families, Liska. We weren’t the only ones who took Izril back in the day. We are just the ones who survived. It’s all the old quotes, you see? I suppose they’re not as common down south since we stopped paying as much mind. Poor as an El, and creative as one too. Haughty as a barefoot Wellfar on deck. Stubborn as a Veltras. Brave as a Veltras. Loyal as a Reinhart. And I suppose, the heart of a Terland. Some call us sentimental, for all we’re in love with stone.”
He held the door open to Liska, and she eyed him.
“I’ve never heard any of that in my life. Mind if I call my g—a really cool lady? Hey, do you have a special someone?”
She peered at Xitegen, and his face went carefully blank.
“One could say Seconda and Primera fill that role.”
He waited for a reaction of horror, scandal, disgust—Liska just glanced at the two Golems. Then she leaned over.
“What? Aren’t they thousands of years old? They’re way too old for you. You should try uh…uh…Cognita! She’s pretty young comparatively, right? Also, what’s it like?”
Xitegen began laughing and clapped her shoulder. He liked Liska.
 
[Sharp Dame Level 16!]
[Skill – Loyalty of the Low Obtained!]
[Skill – Bridge the Gap Obtained!]
[Skill – Daring Getaway Obtained!]
 
[Portal Guardian Level 35!]
[Skill – Door: Reflect Damage Obtained!]
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin did not hear about the incident in Celum for a while, and she didn’t really connect it to Ilvriss since she didn’t know Damia Reinhart.
A certain Mrsha paid attention when she heard, but it was not their battle. Mrsha was at school, battling the forces of amateur carpentry.
And Lyonette was lying in her rooms. Not dancing. Ilvriss had respectfully let her go, but the Calanferian staff kept trying to get her to dance. So had Nanette, but in the end, even the witch had given up and gone to poke at a body floating in the rainy Floodplains.
Rhisveri. Lyonette knew something was up with him, but she was just sad. She really wanted to dance.
“I know it’s a sacrifice, but I love it. What would mother say?”
She screwed her face up, then spoke.
“‘What matters more to you? Your enjoyment or your friend? Choose.’ Or something like that. ‘The Crown does not choose when the nation is at stake.’”
She laughed, then sighed. Lyonette hugged her knees.
“Can’t I have both, Mother?”
Her modest little rooms didn’t bother her. She loved them and had decorated them nicely; she sometimes missed her old bedrooms in the Eternal Throne, but this was a fine compromise. Working was a good compromise. Callused hands, likewise. Cracks in her skin, agony when she encountered something that set off her [Resonant Flesh]…
But dancing.
I want to dance. I want to dance! She wanted to do the Highstepper and rub it in the [Ranchers]’ faces. She wanted it so bad. Lyonette stared around the room, then saw something at the foot of her bed.
“Oh dead gods.”
Aronia’s gift. The amazing, beautiful boots. Lyonette picked one up to throw.
“It’s so soft on the inside and beautiful. Bah.”
She hurled it at a wall. It landed two feet away, and she groaned in pain. So weak. So pathetic.
Apista buzzed down from where she’d been smoking. She landed and lifted the boot up. Lyonette realized she was weaker than her bee and sat there.
“Oh, Apista. I know I can probably build some more muscle, and this is what it was like for Erin. If only I could just…fix this!”
She clenched her fist. But no. There were no shortcuts. No easy ways out. She had known this; she had changed from the spoiled [Princess] who had never worked for anything. Rather like Damia Reinhart, Lyonette du Marquin had forged herself upon the anvil of the inn.
She grabbed the edge of her bed and tried to do an assisted sit up. She failed. But she tried again.
“Just ten today! Just five! Just three! J-just one! Just one, and I’ll recover. I’ll build up muscle. I’ll do it. If it takes a year, I’ll get strong enough, and—”
She couldn’t sit up. Apista buzzed around Lyonette, worried, as she told Apista not to help. Lyonette’s abdominals hurt. Her muscles were—overtaxed from the dancing. She was red-faced. She lay on the floor.
Tried to rise. Couldn’t even with her hands gripping the edge of her bed. Lay down, panting, for eight minutes. Tried to sit up again.
Effort! Just a bit of effort! Please, body! She could do it! She could—
Lyonette’s head rose just high enough to see over the edge of the bed. She saw something sitting there. Collapsed.
Apista morphed into her Scourgebee Form and lifted Lyonette up. The [Princess] half-dangled, half-clung to the bee buzzing like the doom of civilizations and saw what lay on her bed.
The [Box of Incontinuity]. Lyonette du Marquin stopped. She stared at it, then looked down at her body wracked by conditions. Red Skills. She thought of Erin. And then she thought of Maviola El.
 
——
 
A little while later, Xinthe peeked in on the [Princess] and saw Lyonette sitting on her bed, clothes a bit rumpled, with Apista lying on her shoulder, working on a small notepad. She asked Xinthe for a bit of painkiller, a juice, and snack.
And she was calm. The Box of Incontinuity sat next to her, but Lyonette didn’t use it. She didn’t think she needed to.
It was just…a reminder.
She could do it. She had always done ‘it’. Her body had never failed Lyonette, and even now, she’d thought she’d be like Erin should have been from the start and work her way back to health.
“But that’s not how it works, Apista. I’m cursed. Not out of shape. Sometimes something happens. And you need help, like how Maviola couldn’t fight age. Erin needed a wheelchair; no one made her crawl around.”
Exactly. Look at my legs and wings!
Apista buzzed happily on Lyonette’s shoulder. So the [Princess] stared down at the list she’d made and remembered the true advice she’d gotten and, well, hadn’t acted on. The advice of none other than Mrsha the Wise.
…And Ilvriss the Inconsiderate. Lyonette had a list of the one thing in which she emulated her unfortunate role model, Erin Solstice, at times.
It was a list of Skills. All the Skills that Lyonette had and had barely used.
[Enthralling Glance]. [Endowment of the Thief]. [Remember: My Defining Moment]. So many useful ones.
“[Royal Contract]…I only used it once on Cirediel. I should have done so many more agreements with it. [Royal Tax]? I stopped using it after I felt bad about how much I was taking. Who do I tax these days, Rheirgest? [Seafood Cooking]? Argh! It’s rained for months and not once…at least I used [The Gambler’s Dice] once, but [Traveller’s Advancing Techniques]! Oh no!”
There there, you lovely idiot. It’s not your fault I’m the brains of the two of us.
Apista patted Lyonette on the head, and Lyonette’s head rose.
“I do know what you’re telling me, Apista. [Wildspeech].”
Oops. Oh shit, gotta fly.
Apista buzzed away, and Lyonette gazed down at her list.
“Well, let that be a lesson. Apista? Apista, help me.”
The bee came back, and Lyonette pointed.
“I need those. Both of them. Don’t drop it on my—ow.”
The bee winced and apologized, but Lyonette took a deep breath, then underlined the Skill she’d circled, and her eyes gleamed. Apista read the Skill, and her wings buzzed excitedly.
[Royal Artifact]. [Ritual: Designate Heirloom].
Lyonette smiled with all the wonder of a [Princess] and held up Aronia’s boots. She spoke and waited…then coughed and put her boot down.
“Xinthe? Get out of hiding and come over here.”
A squeak; the [Servant] scrambled out from behind the doorway and began apologizing. Lyonette wore a pained look.
“Get me Erin’s wheelchair, would you? Not a word of this to my daughters! And, uh, get me to the [World’s Eye Theatre].”
 
——
 
The Quarass of Germina was not a happy woman to be called up. Oh, she liked the gold she was using to great effect, but answering anyone’s beck and call irked her, especially Lyonette, who’d made her act as a [Healer] for Ulva Terland and find the Silver Swords lodging.
She was going to collect on these debts, despite what Lyonette had paid her, and—
The aged being wearing the body of a girl rubbed at one ear.
“Wait. You wish me to teach you how to use your Skill? [Ritual: Designate Heirloom]? And [Royal Artifact]?”
“Er, yes, Quarass. I’m terribly sorry to take up your—”
The Quarass stared at Lyonette.
“You want me to teach you how to use your Skills.”
“If you don’t mind? I wanted to make these boots something that could help me dance in light of my condition…”
Lyonette’s voice trailed off, and she shrank. The Quarass eyed Lyonette.
“Your conditions, which you took to help Erin Solstice and gave yourself five Ichor Skills and [Grand Act: Reforge My Shattered Soul]. The Skill of [Inspirations], [Heroes], and [Visionaries].”
“Y-yes?”
The Quarass held out a hand. Someone put a drink in it. She threw it and held it out again.
“Quill.”
One was put in her hand. She wrote this all down. Then she sat back on her throne. And smiled.
“Take a seat, Lyonette du Marquin. The first thing you will understand is that the ritual requires intention much like [Witches], but also actual ceremony as you are a [Princess]. I suggest a Calanferian ceremony that dates back to the dawn of your kingdom’s founding; old is best. And simpler to enact with less requirements for nobility to participate. Queen Marquin’s honoring of Hell’s Wardens comes to mind; she had a sense of ceremony despite the poorness of her nation and the rumors about her. Secondly, the quality of the item matters, and you must add a quality of what you seek into the material. I suggest, in this case, the most high-grade Potion of Stamina and Potion of Strength you can find. Hmm. No, flexibility. Do not do a shapeshifting potion; it may lead to undesired effects.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped, and she began to hurry to take notes herself. The Quarass was being helpful? Her? Then she realized that for once, she was doing what the Quarass actually wanted to do.
Improve upon a talent. Teach someone about their own Skills.
 
——
 
It took time. One of the Quarass’ pieces of advice to her pupil was personalization.
“Make the boots your own. Your daughter, Nanette, is intelligent in witch-ways. Even if it is mostly a child’s willful desire to stand out. Take this gift back from this [Cattle Baroness]. She is [Smothering You With Kindness].”
“She is? That dreadful—hmm. How do I make this stylish? Beautiful? I want it to be…to make me feel strong. And it’s so damn well made.”
“An exterior coating. Paint?”
“Ugh, I wish I had Erin’s Skills. H-how about the ritual? Does this look right?”
Lyonette had done some rigging up with colored pieces of fabric, which she dithered over, but it wasn’t the materials, but the effect. The [World’s Eye Theatre] had its eye-dome which let light stream in…only now, each pane was covered by fabric.
So it was red or yellow light that shone down. Lyonette waved at Rosencrantz as he adjusted the careful tapestry of fabrics and created a stained glass window’s effect. They had blocked some panes and organized the rest until a rainbow of lights formed a flower in the center of the domed room. The Quarass paced around it.
“Well done. Marquin had the same idea when she spent all her coin on food for her new nation and a delegation of Hell’s Wardens was sent to embarrass her by the King of Desonis. She took them into the Eternal Throne’s heart after this ceremony where she put crowns of paper on their heads and called them her equals, and they caught poor fish that floated in the gravity-less void. She was a genius of diplomacy, just not traditionally elegant. I think she thought less of herself.”
Lyonette du Marquin stopped and stood there, eyes filling up with such longing and—understanding—that the Quarass wanted to know what she’d seen. The immortal coughed after a moment.
“D-did you meet with—?”
Before she could bring up the question that made even her nervous, there was a honking sound, and someone sat up in his chair. Duke Rhisveri looked sick; he was wrapped in a big blanket, and being drowned in the waters for a day and night hadn’t made him much better, but his main body was the one with a fever.
“Das Marquin! I remeber dat! Berry cleber. She had dis thing where she walked up an…and she knew exactly where she’d fought with you. Every single one ‘a us. Then she’d take a cup and hold it to your lips. Got you drunk and made you love her.”
The Quarass’ shoulders hunched, and she glared at Rhisveri, but Lyonette drank that in too—even as she waved at Xinthe to get Rhisveri another handkerchief. The two beings who had met Marquin watched her descendant stand there in the center of the room.
She had placed lanterns in a star around the boots she needed to customize. Each lantern glowed with a different fire, taken from the Order of Solstice.
Blue’s sadness, honor’s bright green, pink’s glory, the kindness of red, grey mercy…no ill flames. Not for this. The [Princess] turned, despairing.
“How shall any of us ever live up to Marquin? Ever? She was a woman who led the charge into Hell itself—and won!”
“Maybe you won’t.”
Rhisveri muttered. Lyonette didn’t scold him, but just gazed at the Quarass.
“No. But I should be ashamed to even be…to even wear her name as I am. We must be more to even call ourselves Marquins.”
Then she turned, and the woman who had threatened to murder the Goblin King placed two potions next to the boots and eyed them critically.
“Wait. I think I know how to make the boots…beautiful. I’ll be back! Xinthe! Push me!”
 
——
 
When she came back, it was with a very amused little girl. Mrsha the Recently Trimmed snorted.
Mom, it’s going to look gross.
“No, it’s not! We just take some lovely white paint, and…”
Lyonette wanted to put the fur around the tops of her boots. Just a delicate trim, and she wanted to paint it white. Whether Mrsha wanted to acknowledge it or not…this was what Lyonette thought when she imagined bravery.
It meant something. Wall Lord Ilvriss had finally been told what was going on. He and the staff of the inn watched as Lyonette put the boots in the center with a lovely fur trim around it. The Quarass nodded briskly.
“Good. Now, some ceremony. There are plenty of old speeches Marquin gave, but I want you to come up with it on your own.”
The star of colors glowed around Lyonette, and the flames burnt. She hobbled around, and the boots she wanted to help her sat there. Mrsha waited with Nanette, eyes on her mother.
And…Lyonette didn’t know what to say.
“It feels so selfish to make a grand speech to designate some boots as an heirloom.”
“Yes. It does, doesn’t it?”
The Quarass’ eyes were locked on the [Princess]. She could help, but she was waiting…and Lyonette glanced around.
“It’s selfish. But I want to dance with you, Ilvriss. I want to dance magic and reclaim what I’ve given up. I’m selfish. But you know what? We’re allowed to be. [Princesses] and Drakes.”
He sat there, staring at her, and she smiled with that cracked smile that refused to break. The [Princess] gazed at the scroll Erin had made.
“Oh, but it’s such a silly dance! Even the end. I just want to dance. Like…”
She gazed at the two objects she was giving up for the ritual. The Potion of Swan’s Grace was a stupid-sounding title, and the Potion of Limitless Stamina was false advertising, but Octavia had given her two of Saliss’ best.
The Quarass supposed they’d be good enough for a decent result. But even she wasn’t prepared for Lyonette to uncork both potions and down them.
“Ergh, Saliss can’t make these taste better?”
“Lyonette, the ingredients!”
She ignored the protest from above. The [Princess] took a breath and felt at her legs. She grimaced; she still hurt. But then she turned and bowed to her small audience. She met her daughters’ eyes as she rose.
“It’s petty. But Marquin witness me, we are all petty women. These boots will win no wars, but may they give me the strength to step forwards when I need to. To forge friendships. And to just…dance. As so.”
Then she spun on one leg, and twirled, raising one leg up and pressing her foot against the other leg. Like a ballerina. She spun, again, and Ilvriss recalled a [Princess] dancing with a dress that opened like a flower.
He half-rose, then saw her tracing the steps she remembered. Dancing around the burning flames and the lights which seemed to suddenly shine. On those plain boots with off-white fur-fuzz. Which no longer seemed so silly and hastily painted.
The [Princess] danced. Hair flowing behind her, moving from the poses she knew, and she had to be in pain.
The Quarass knew that. Those potions didn’t overcome the fact that her literal nerves were…but the [Princess] danced faster and faster. She only stopped once to let Xinthe charge down the steps and throw up a screen. And when she emerged, she wore a proper dress. The [Princess] threw her head back and lifted a gloved hand.
Then someone was playing music. Ser Dalimont had found a scrying orb. Not a song crystal; who had Terandrian ballroom music? So, instead, he’d just set up a scrying spell back to Calanfer, and the royal band was playing.
A [Queen] watched her daughter and said not a word. The [Princess] kept dancing, smiling, and the Wyrm and Quarass watched magic moving. Magic…and meaning. Following her.
Silently, the two immortals locked gazes. And they heard the [Princess]’ question.
How do I stand in Marquin’s shadow? They, who had met the huge woman who had founded a nation and shouted defiance to the eldest of Crelers, gazed down at Marquin’s descendant. So long had passed…and yet some things you never forgot. It was their right and privilege for passing the ages to see both.
And imagine what Marquin would say to her descendant if she could see this.
 
——
 
Lyonette didn’t know how long she danced, ignoring the pain, the protestations of her body. She knew she would pay for it, but for a moment, the magic in her veins let her defy the Skills, so she did.
It was no grand act. Not like Mrsha had done. Just a [Princess]’ defiance. Clinging to what she believed made her special. She only stopped when she could go on no longer.
Then they showered applause down on her, and she thought her audience was being polite until she stared at the staff on their feet, cheering. Even…Calanfer’s royal orchestra!
She gawped at them and turned to Dalimont, wondering how he’d arranged that. He just gave her a mysterious smile, that [Knight] of mysteries. And only then did Lyonette turn and let out a soft sigh.
“Oh…”
The boots that Aronia had gifted her were gone. Oh, roughly the same boots were there. Beautiful, costly leather cut to perfection. The snow-white trim of delicate fur was beautiful. And below it…
The white leather of the boots had shifted. Even when they were taken out of the multi-colored flower of lights, they still had the same colors washed over the leather.
Blue, red, green, the colors of the rainbow, stained like a glass window, had been embossed on the leather.
“It’s so…eclectic! It doesn’t match—”
Xinthe worried audibly the ritual had failed. The boots looked—well, they were a bit—!
Then Lyonette’s head turned as she tried to put one on, and Xinthe saw Nanette’s bright, garishly dyed boots that were just as multicolored. The expression of delight and gratification on the young witch’s face…Xinthe saw Mrsha turn her head and draw a claw across her throat.
Xinthe covered her mouth. She was learning.
Lyonette put the boots on and stood. Which in and of itself was a miracle, because after the potions had left her, she’d fallen down. But she stood now, the boots lifting, and she took a step. Did a twirl on one heel.
It was a fast, sharp twirl. Even faster than she’d been dancing before. She stared down as Ilvriss half-rose. Then she did a jig. A high-knee. A kick-step from the Highstepper, and her face lit up.
The Quarass smiled and spoke.
“What will you call them? A [Royal Artifact] needs a name.”
Lyonette, flustered, said the first thing that came to mind.
“I…I suppose I’ll call them the High Steppers! The High Steppers of House Lischelle!”
She turned, and Colfa blinked. Then she looked proud. She came down to inspect them, and Lyonette gazed around. Wearing magic on her feet. Tears sprang to her eyes, and the Quarass whispered to Rhisveri.
“Just as well she wasn’t too foolish to use her Skill before asking me. She won’t be able to do that for quite some time.”
He didn’t respond. He was staring at Lyonette, and the Quarass snorted when she eyed his face. But the only thing the [Princess] did was raise a hand.
“Ilvriss? Would you care to dance?”
Her voice trembled, and she smiled at him. He slowly stood, and she walked up with him to the ballroom. Wearing magic upon her feet. When she danced—Mrsha watched her mother leap, twirl in the air, and land like an ice skater, spinning on the smooth marble.
Damn, now I want to learn to dance too.
Queen Ielane’s voice came from a speaking stone as she watched her daughter through a tiny marble that Xinthe was holding.
“I inspired my daughters to learn by showing them the best [Dancers] we could find, inviting the Lord of the Dance to Calanfer. Odd. Lyonette applied herself more vigorously than most of her sisters, but she did not have this will to dance.”
Mrsha stared at the stone.
Yeah, well, if her mother danced with her and taught her, maybe she would have tried even harder.
Ielane du Marquin exhaled some smoke after a moment.
“…A [Queen] does not need t—”
Mrsha picked up the scrying stone and hurled it down the ballroom. She watched Xinthe run after it, screaming apologies, then sat, smiled, and high-fived Nanette.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin lay on her face as Ilvriss called for a stretcher a while later. Fun fact: The High Steppers of House Lischelle gave her incredible footwork and dancing ability, even more than she’d normally have.
…They were only good for three dances in a row before they needed a day to recharge.
She was still happy.

10.67 O (2026-06-14)

Every evening, Captain Osthia Blackwing read. She didn’t like reading, really. It was something she could do, as a Pallassian and daughter of the prestigious Blackwing family…but she’d probably read all of three books in her entire life before recent events.
She knew that made her a helmet-headed idiot [Soldier], like many of her uncles, aunts, and cousins, who had a history of military-service. She hadn’t cared. There were more important things than what went on between the covers of a book, and that was still a belief she held.
No battles were won by the turn of a page, only a swinging sword.
But she didn’t swing her sword much these days. She’d lived for over a year after escaping the Goblin Lord Reiss, learning the Necromancer of Izril was alive, and joining Wall Lord Ilvriss to form a desperate secret alliance against him.
They’d gotten a bit done, but not enough. Too many fears of the Necromancer’s minions being everywhere, as Reiss had claimed. Too few levels, and too much damn infighting with Drakes. It made her entirely bitter about her people, sometimes.
She wished she could have gone to Pallass and told the Cyclops. Maybe that would have been the right move.
Or maybe they’d have interrogated her for suspicion of being a double-agent. Charged her with treason for abandoning her army. She didn’t know. She only knew that sometimes she didn’t feel like the bright-eyed, impatient Osthia Blackwing who wanted to be promoted, who admired her uncle Thrissiam, and who saw Pallass as the greatest city, beyond reproach.
She’d begun forgetting her name. She responded to ‘Asrira Shieldscale’, her cover, more these days. Ilvriss sometimes forgot to call her Osthia in private. Even ‘Othmissa’, another cover-name, was more familiar to her than her own name.
The cobalt-blue scale dye was now Osthia’s face. She had a Salazsarian accent, if a bad one. Was she happy?
…No. The Drake would swing herself out of bed each day and address her command. Which was a bunch of damn Humans who didn’t even show up for muster.
Sisters of Chell. If they weren’t lazing around, they were drunk, insubordinate, and had more attitude than anyone she’d commanded. They’d saunter up, listen to her for a while, then grumble as she made them patrol an area and report in.
“We ain’t soldiers, Ma’am. You just leave the gangs to us. And the next time we all gotta line up and get minced by a Golem, give us a sick day, eh?”
A woman with brown hair and a twice-broken nose hefted a long club on one shoulder and spat on the ground, not quite at Osthia’s boots. A few of the Sisters gazed down at their feet; the rest laughed. Most were newcomers, replacements for the dead ones.
One of the Sisters not laughing was a kid with red hair. In her teens, a single dagger in her belt. Osthia remembered her because she’d been there when Ilvriss had been attacked. She hadn’t been minced because she’d been too slow. The Drake pointed at her.
“It’s been two damn days since your comrades fell in battle. Don’t you have any respect for the dead? You there, soldier. Er, Human! You were defending Wall Lord Ilvriss. It’s my job to issue commendations for the dead and pensions. As well as awards for everyone who fought to defend the Wall Lord and the expedition. What’s your name?”
She had it in her head to reward the girl. Make an example of her to at least incentivize the others. But it didn’t work. The young woman just slid her eyes sideways.
“Boyd, Miss.”
“Boyd? Er, Interesting name.”
“Boyd On. She’s a rookie. Just some dagger-wielding kid. You want to give out some coins for th’ dead? We’ll spread it around real generous.”
The twice-broken nose woman slung an arm around the kid’s shoulder and rubbed her fingers together to more laughter. Osthia frowned at her. As far as she understood it, the Sisters were a mix of lowlifes and former escorts or prostitutes. They ran racketeering and theft operations, but they made a lot of money from taking over red light districts.
They were a large organization that spanned the north, but the result was a lot of…quality issues. You got high-level members and raw recruits.
“Well, Miss Boyd’s in line for a commendation, and I’ll require her help identifying the dead. The rest of you, on patrol. Do you have any formal training?”
“Sure, we teach the new girls how to stab right. What, you fancy soldiers going to train us too?”
“I might do just that. Report in at midday for training. Anyone who passes is exempt, of course.”
They glared and grumbled at that, but Osthia was a former officer, and she had command Skills. She pressed them down, and the Sisters broke off. That left Boyd, the broken-nosed woman who was loitering around for some reason, and Osthia.
“Miss Boyd, can you list the deceased for me?”
“Dunno who they were, Captain.”
Osthia blinked. She could remember a woman grabbing Ilvriss out of danger and taking on the Golem. It sweeping knives through them in seconds.
“You don’t know? But I know the Sister who rescued Ilvriss was assigned personally from Celum’s headquarters. Base? She was your superior, wasn’t she?”
Boyd shrugged her shoulders, staring down at her feet and mumbling.
“Dunno who she was, Miss. I was new t’ the group.”
“How new?”
“Six days?”
Another laugh from broken-nose. The woman smirked at Osthia, revealing some foully corroded teeth.
She needs a damn [Toothmaker]. Osthia covered her nose.
“Told ya. She’s a real newbie. Dagger and some pants.”
“What, you mean a rookie soldier?”
“Sure. Must’ve signed her up. That’s what you get. Dead woman’s dagger, dead woman’s pants. Don’t bother asking who else got killed. If anyone knows, it was their buddies from whichever cities they got pulled from. No one’s gonna come begging for their money. They ain’t got families. Though if you wanna donate it to their local chapters…”
…It’d go straight into the pockets of Boss Yeire or the like. Osthia wasn’t an idiot. She massaged her forehead. She had a headache already. Damn Ilvriss for asking her to do this! But it wasn’t like she had the training or authority to command all the soldiers. She exhaled.
“Let’s start from what you know. Miss Boyd? Can I get your name?”
“Fer what?”
“For my roster. I am in charge of you. That’s ‘Boyd On’, correct?”
What a weird name. The young woman fidgeted so much when Osthia wrote this down, and the broken-nosed woman laughed so hard that Osthia squinted at her. Miss Boyd couldn’t even meet her eyes, so Osthia underlined the name and got the other woman’s.
“Call me Crooknose. ‘Sbetter than another name. I ain’t gonna go on a list to get myself caught once this job is done.”
Despite Osthia assuring her that this was only for her records and that she was from Salazsar, not a local city, Crooknose refused to give another name. So Osthia gave up. She was writing an inquiry to Celum and realizing that ‘Boss Yeire’ was not about to respond to [Message] spells. So that meant going herself or sending someone she could trust.
Xesci? Would Xesci know? Osthia was checking the list of names of the women under her authority, thirty Sisters of Chell in the base camp, and sixty spread around the other dig sites. They were lazy, gambled, stole, and fought with the [Miners] and actual guards…but they had apparently caught several thieves themselves and prevented a few incidents in town. Even so, she regarded them as a full net-negative with few upsides for how much Ilvriss spent to buy their ‘protection’.
Except for the group that had died to save the Wall Lord’s life. For that and that alone, Osthia balanced the scales and felt like she owed them some effort. So she persisted until she stared at the name at the top of the list.
Boyd On. Another sister had called herself Girnol Ereh. Much to the same laughter. Osthia eyed the names, then began writing with a quill.
A few minutes later, she kicked her way out of her tents, swearing. Stormed off to go shout at Xesci because she figured it out.
Boyd On. An anagram for…‘nobody’. And Girnol Ereh. ‘No girl here.’ Fake names for criminals. Women who didn’t exist. It was enough to make Osthia mad enough to breathe acid over the lot, except for one thing.
They were like her.
 
——
 
“You want to do what with the dead?”
That kind of question was never welcome, especially from a [Courtesan] like Xesci. The woman was all promiscuity. Not lewd, sultry desire and temptation like you thought. She was more casual, sometimes. Like her personal hygiene or how she talked about it! Like it was as common as blowing your nose and, often, just as pleasant.
Osthia fancied she was a bit jaded from her captivity and seeing the Walled Cities from the perspective of someone in hiding. But if she was a bit of jade, Xesci was a Relic-class piece of art fit for the Empire of Drath’s palace. Nothing made her blink. Not death, not the most depraved acts. She’d given Ulva Terland a heart attack, slit her own throat, and didn’t seem shaken by it at all.
“I want to issue pensions for the deceased, Xesci. Not have sex with them!”
“Who said anything about sex? Don’t be disgusting. This is a clean brothel.”
She was running a brothel. Osthia drew a deep breath.
“I have a question about some of my…people. You see—”
“We don’t have undead chained up. I’ve heard of a few ‘exotic’ brothels that tried that. Always a bad idea. If the sickness doesn’t get you, the undead adapt. Ever seen one grow teeth in the genital area?”
“Please stop talking. No one does that, right?”
“…Seen it happen six times. To be fair, four were the same fellow. Never learned his lesson. What’s this about the Sisters?”
When Osthia got Xesci on track, the [Courtesan] laughed.
“Boyd On. Classic. Crooknose is right. Don’t ask her what she knows; she was a local recruit. Probably from this very town. They’re called Nightlights. That’s Sister-slang for their ranks. It’s nothing as formal as the Brothers.”
“I don’t understand. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings? They’re just another gang, right?”
Xesci raised her brows.
“To you, a Walled City Drake, maybe. To the underworld? The Brothers are an organized, professional lot. Some kid wants to run with them, they have to prove it. The Brothers don’t let anyone just join. Or even if you kill someone—you’re less likely to get in. Some gangs have it simple: knife your first person and enter. Others make you kill a member, but those never really last long. Too much attrition.”
Osthia shook her head.
“Insanity. The south has nothing like that.”
“Heh. Oh, wait. You’re serious? Pallass, Salazsar, both have gangs. Not as much flash because the Watches are more serious, but plenty of blades, even so. Sorry, that’s cant. Flash is showy, blades are stabbing-types. Violence.”
“…So the Brothers are organized?”
“Sure are. They train new members, make them walk with veterans, try not to let them get killed. Sisters do it differently. Anyone wants to join the Sisters? They can get in after pledging loyalty. Just costs you a bit of blood. But all you get is a dagger and—”
“A dead woman’s pants. New recruits, Nightlights, must not last long.”
Xesci poured herself a cup of iced water and sipped from it. Osthia tried not to listen to a thumping sound from overhead in the brothel. The [Courtesan] sighed.
“Hydration? It’s getting hot out there, and I want to run this brothel right. No? Suit yourself. Yes, turnover’s high, but there’s always a girl wanting to join. And they don’t always fight like that situation with Ilvriss. Frankly, I was worried there might be trouble. Getting Sisters killed means the local bosses or Haple get unhappy.”
“The leaders, right. They understood it was dangerous.”
“I’m just mentioning it. But you’ll have more reinforcements. Just lower-quality, I suspect. More Nightlights and less Night Stalkers or higher ranks.”
Osthia made a note of this, grumbling.
“Great. At least I can train them. Why does anyone join the Sisters of Chell?”
She let a bit too much of the acid she could breathe, the liquid contempt and ire in her Oldblood heritage, enter her tone. Because when she glanced up, Xesci was annoyed. The Courtesan’s face changed and became a red-haired woman that Osthia recognized.
The dead Sister who’d saved Ilvriss. She spoke softly.
“Who joins? Anyone who wasn’t born with the Blackwing name, Osthia. Girls whose only option is to spread their legs in marriage or a brothel, who don’t have anyone’s help. Can’t read or write good, don’t have any classes, and who won’t last a second on the streets without anyone to watch their back. A Sister’s feared. A Sister has family, even if she’s a lowlife scrounging for coin. Watch your tongue.”
Osthia held up one claw as she backed up a step.
“I apologize, Xesci. I just—it’s frustrating because I need records. I need to identify the dead, and no one knows them. Unless you do?”
Xesci turned her head, and her features shifted, melting like wax and morphing in a moment that made Osthia shudder.
“No. Just the faces. You’ll have to go to Celum where they were drawn from. I can go with you to talk to Yeire. She won’t be pleasant, otherwise.”
“Will it be…difficult? We got nearly a dozen of her best women killed.”
Now Osthia was feeling her way forwards, a bit on more solid ground. She knew politicking; she’d served in Pallass’ armies. Her time in Thrissiam’s 3rd Army had taught her a lot. Taking someone else’s command and getting them killed? Edellein, her uncle in 4th Army, had held grudges for decades over that sort of thing.
Uncle Edellein. Not the [General] I would have chosen to lead Pallass. He was always a bit of a nightmare to everyone but Thrissiam, who outranked him. Maybe he’s changed. Maybe they don’t have anyone else better with Duln dead and Shirka out of an army. I can’t believe High Command wasted the Slayers. One of Pallass’ trump cards dead.
And some had been anti-undead specialists. More and more Walled Cities squandering their power. Osthia already felt bad with this job, but she was resigning herself to some anger from Boss Yeire when Xesci tilted her head.
“What? Her best…is that an insult or a joke?”
Osthia frowned and glared at Xesci.
“The ones who died! I assume they were all Night Stalkers? Is that the highest rank?”
The [Courtesan of Change] gave Osthia a probing stare, then half-smiled. Bitter irony on her face now. She drank more water and exhaled in that weary way. And then Osthia understood, because Xesci replied.
“Night Stalker’s a high rank, yes. If Yeire lost twelve of them, she’d be trying to murder Ilvriss herself. But those weren’t Night Stalkers, Osthia. You think they’d be stupid enough to try to take on a Golem with knives? All three of the ones assigned to Ilvriss weren’t anywhere close to the fighting.”
Three Night Stalkers? Osthia frowned.
“But who—?”
Xesci lifted her fingers and counted.
“The ranks go Nightlight, Dusk Prowler, Sister of Chell—that’s most ordinary ones, just ‘Sister’—Night Stalker, Lantern Lady—no one uses that term, that’s just ‘Gang Boss’ like Yeire—then you get bigger bosses for an entire city, and the Haple, who command everyone. The twelve that got killed were just Dusk Prowlers and Nightlights, Osthia. Maybe a Sister or two among them.”
What? But they’d fought the Hunter-Killer Golem when Salazsarian [Soldiers] had hesitated to rush in. Osthia stared at Xesci.
“But why did they…?”
The [Courtesan] just shrugged.
“They must have thought they had a chance. No, wait…”
She snapped her fingers.
“I remember! Boss Yeire put a counter-bounty on Ilvriss’ head to motivate the girls. If they saved his life, they got a five gold reward. Pretty smart of her. She has grown up.”
Xesci smiled at Osthia, and the Drake stood there with answers and insights into the Sisters of Chell’s nature. But no idea who had died. Just twelve dead women.
And more reading to do.
 
——
 
New jobs were rough. Sometimes, you were a trembling Drake with someone holding a dagger to your throat, making you sign a contract in blood, sitting in the backroom of a fake Guild as expressionless [Assassins] eyed your pet rats.
Sometimes, you were dealing with a bunch of lazy Humans yawning and farting and nudging each other while you tried to whip some discipline into them. Osthia felt like her life was nothing but new jobs.
First it had been Ilvriss’ employ and being a [Bodyguard] in the City of Gems, with their different culture and having Welca and the other [Aides] thinking she was there to take their jobs. Starting the anti-Az’kerash operations. Feeling useless reading books and not knowing how to counter super magic.
Here, at least, she felt like she was on solid ground. Osthia shoulder-threw Boyd onto the practice courts and tossed a punch. She winced as her healing bones protested, but clocked Crooknose as the woman came in for a tackle—and it took the woman out.
Literally out of the sparring ring. The Sister walked off, holding her nose and swearing.
“Fuck this, I’m out!”
“What? You don’t leave the ring, soldier! We are sparring—”
“I ain’t getting paid to get punched in the nose if it’s not work.”
The Sister snapped back, and Osthia saw her already-broken nose was bleeding. It probably hurt like hell; Osthia hesitated, but then growled.
“Take five, and someone else get in here. I want you up to military standard!”
“Military, she says. You think we need all that?”
One of the Sisters produced a knife as she sauntered into the arena. She was just a Dusk Prowler; now that Xesci had told Osthia the ranks, the Drake recognized the low-level Sisters. It was their clothing, actually. They could dress how they wanted, but each new rank meant you wore standard-issue clothing. Nightlights got a dead Sister’s pants.
Dusk Prowlers all got…a belt. It was a pretty good one, worn, with plenty of loops and pouches for storing things like lockpicks, tools, and so on.
Full Sisters of Chell got issued new pants, boots, and Night Stalkers got a fancy cloak which was actually magic. Almost all her ‘command’ were low-level Sisters, sadly. The Dusk Prowler sauntered over, thinking Osthia was afraid of her blade.
The Drake waited until Boyd got closer, then feinted a punch at the Dusk Prowler. She kicked the blade out of the woman’s hand; the Sisters watching dodged the spinning knife. Osthia grabbed the woman’s shoulder, swept a leg.
“You’re not Night Prowlers or full Sisters. And none of you are as good as regular [Soldiers]. Name?”
“Pennybought.”
Another fake name. Osthia rolled her eyes as she helped Pennybought up. She glanced around.
“Fifteen more minutes of sparring! Then I want to see how good you are with your daggers!”
 
——
 
They were not good with the daggers. Osthia spent half an hour correcting grips, having them stab practice dummies, then went to sit and have a drink.
Water. She stared at the cup.
They don’t know how to fight! Any Salazsarian recruit with a month of practice would be better! The Sisters literally had no experience. Boyd, for instance, had been initiated a week ago.
It meant she’d never stabbed anyone. She’d cut a few purses, participated in a mugging where she’d done some kicking—she’d never seen combat until the Golem attack. Nor was she a streetwise tough with a background that meant she was used to brawling. After some questioning, she’d admitted she’d run away from her home.
Am I going to have to repatriate some of my command to their parents? Osthia decided she’d just keep training them up. She had to do something, and the Sisters might grumble and walk off if they got hit, but they were willing to learn how to fight.
The trouble was…Osthia was sort of alone, making little progress in her field.
Everyone else seemed to be having a grand old time.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss came back dancing after his first visit to The Wandering Inn.
He stopped when Osthia stared at him. She had a black eye; one of the Sisters had gotten annoyed after a training session and thrown a [Dirty Punch].
Ilvriss looked great. Good sleep at the inn, good food; he’d brought back a hamper and dancing.
“Miss Lyonette is, ah, having trouble keeping up, but I have homework. This darn Highstepper—oh well.”
“Is this a good use of your time, Wall Lord?”
They were having a briefing where Xesci, Ilvriss, and Osthia discussed how things were going. Nerul would have been present, but he was gone. Ilvriss hesitated.
“Well…it keeps Lyonette happy. And I must say, it’s a good workout!”
“He should keep doing it. Dancing is in the purview of [Lord] classes. It might level him.”
That was Xesci’s comment. Osthia couldn’t object to that; she was just sour.
“I have a report: the Rubirel Guard engaged the undead in the mine after careful digging. The undead fought viciously, and two were destroyed, but the rest pulled back after an inability to damage them.”
“Really? Damn. Any more breaches?”
“Nossir. Just a cattle raid. Eighteen wounded.”
Ilvriss grimaced. He checked his notes.
“Sounds like the undead are clever. Well, we’ll keep the Rubirel Guard at it. They’re the only forces who won’t take casualties…we could pull our [Soldiers] off reserved duty to augment their advance. Let’s do that if they don’t make progress. I don’t want to take casualties, but we have to push.”
Everyone nodded at that. The Wall Lord sighed.
“I’ve got a few other reports to share…Nerul’s in Salazsar trying to deal with the Terlands. He has a plan, but his only update is that the city’s got a bit of a problem. The Fissivalian war is ongoing, and there’s unrest. Remember Sellme?”
Osthia shrugged; she’d never really cared about him, but Xesci sighed.
“He’s dead, isn’t he?”
“Likely. That’s what the claim is, but the [Anarchists] who supported him are still causing trouble. Not in the Walled City; apparently the Watch and army came down on them hard. But other Salazsar-aligned cities are reporting trouble. Well, it’s minor. The war…Father said Eschowar was helping direct our military.”
“Is he that important, that old Drake? I recall him retiring, but we have modern [Generals] and [Strategists], right?”
Osthia snorted at Xesci’s ignorance and got a flat look from her. She ducked her head, recalling Xesci did outlevel her.
“Eschowar was a military genius, Xesci. I have no doubt his insight is as useful as the Cyclops’ was. Surely Fissival wants to sue for peace after your father’s victory, Ilvriss?”
He just grimaced.
“It’s pride and the cities. It sounds like they’re still engaging, just not with full armies. Smaller skirmishes and a lot of their damn [Mages]. New magic. Just keeping you apprised. I think that’s it. I need to do some stretches.”
He was still doing more dancing? Xesci grinned as Ilvriss practiced a few lunges.
“Want help?”
“You can do the Highstepper?”
“I haven’t practiced it since the last time I was here, but I can take the most flexible dancer I’ve ever met. Unless it’s a magical dance, sure.”
They began practicing the silly Human dance, and Osthia ground her teeth together! She wanted to lecture Ilvriss about wasting time, but she had been to The Wandering Inn.
She knew what it could do. She raised one claw.
“Before you dance off, Wall Lord…do I have permission to visit Celum to talk to the Sisters of Chell? I’ll bring Xesci as a negotiator, of course.”
“Hm? Naturally. And I do thank you for dealing with the Sisters, Osthia. No one else is as flexible in my command. Just imagine Dramm dealing with them. If they didn’t stab him to death within the first hour, I’d be worried they were blackmailing him or something. The same with Welca and my other people. I do trust them, but…”
That cheered Osthia up a bit. She coughed, slightly mollified.
“Of course, Ilvriss. Just don’t expect miracles. But I was worried about our leadership now that we’re seeing combat in the dig site. Real combat, not the Humans.”
They needed a capable officer. Osthia had only ever been a [Captain] of a wing; she knew they had decent military forces, more than the Humans expected. But a good commander made Wyverns out of regular [Soldiers]. Ilvriss could do it, but…he slowed.
“I just told my father the same thing the other day. I’m decent at leading an army, but no Zel. And if I’m splitting time…my father’s still around, isn’t he?”
“He was touring the dig site. I believe he wanted to fight the undead, but he was kept from doing so.”
“Ancestors, there’s a relief. Ask him if he has someone. He knows the army better than I do.”
Osthia marched out of the tent to do just that. She heard Ilvriss speaking to Xesci.
“The high-kicking gets me, though. I know you do it in a line, but that fast?”
“It’s a showoff dance. Your flexibility sucks. Let’s do some stretches. Can Lyonette do this?”
“Er…politely, no. Her detrimental Skill is really affecting her mobility, even with [Flawless Attempt]. But I expect that if I do a few more practice sessions with her, in about four visits or so, Mrsha will uncover a Relic-class Golem Destroyer for me or something.”
“Sounds about right. Okay, put your leg up on a table and see how high you can raise it before it starts to hurt…”
 
——
 
“He’s not sleeping with that [Prostitute], is he?”
Wall Lord Zail’s first question to Osthia made her bite her tongue. After assuring him that Xesci was purely there for a professional matter, he relented. He looked good. Military, and he was far more at home with Osthia than his own son.
“It’s only a problem since she’s so damn obvious. It’s not like it’s not traditional. I used to raise morale by hiring a hundred of them in local towns. But employing one? You understand the issue, don’t you?”
“Yessir, Wall Lord, sir. This is just because she’s so high level, sir. And the Sisters of Chell, sir.”
The constant sir-ing was reflexive from Osthia and pleased Zail. He walked around a map of her dig site.
“Good that you set up an actual model of your camp. I was concerned—until I noted how many troops you have here. Very clever. That lad, Dramm?”
“Yes, Wall Lord Zail?”
“Sharp as a bag of rocks. Even some of the other spies might not have noticed…idiots. I’m not sure about the monsters, but I noted the lack of a commanding officer. I happen to have someone fit for the job. I was going to recommend them for the anti-Antinium initiatives, but I’ll trial them here. A good man; new. Came from Manus—well, dishonorably discharged, but I reviewed his files and spoke to him. He might do well here.”
Zail had a bit of a soft spot for veterans, it transpired. Osthia nodded, though ‘dishonorably discharged’ didn’t fill her with hope, but if he thought they were good…the Wall Lord glanced at Osthia.
“These Sisters…useless?”
“They fought the Golem, sir. They’re brave. But, ah, any green company could mince them. No armor, no training. Shortswords and daggers. A few throwing weapons, but nothing more.”
He pulled a face, and she was relieved to talk to someone who got it.
“Eugh. Conscripted Tribal Gnolls were more dangerous in my day. So this is one of the dread Gangs that plagues the north. Hah! Well, they’re brave enough if they charge a Golem. Or dumb as Humans. I’ll have some more armor and weaponry sent so they’re at least outfitted right. I’m releasing more funds to Ilvriss; the rest are needed, but he seems to be doing well enough.”
“Yessir, Wall Lord! And The Wandering Inn is providing monetary assistance as well!”
That alone justified Ilvriss dancing with Lyonette; how they had so much money, Osthia didn’t want to know. Zail pulled a longer face.
“The inn…and that [Princess]. Fine. Fine. It’s my son’s life. I’m heading back to Salazsar. Keep him safe, would you, Wing Captain?”
“Yess—”
She caught herself and hesitated.
“It’s, it’s just [Captain], Wall Lord. Not Wing Captain. I never served with any fliers.”
She saw the grey, faded scales around Zail’s eyes wrinkle up as he turned his head to her. And the hunched figure straightened over the map.
“I’m sure that’s what you claim. And I am sure my son knows your particulars. But my class doesn’t lie to me. Keep him safe, Wing Captain. That’s an order. Anyone does their job right, man, woman, Drake, Gnoll, and I don’t ask questions. Gemscale rewards loyalty and good work. Always has.”
“Yessir.”
She managed, and he nodded and walked for the tent flaps.
“I have to fly back to Salazsar. Fissival needs its tail stomped in. Oh, and Captain?”
“Sir?”
“If those damn Humans keep raiding us, do me a favor and break all their damn jaws, would you? Drakes don’t run—that’s a stupid saying. But Drakes don’t lose a fistfight. Not to Humans.”
 
——
 
Old-school. Meeting Wall Lord Zail invigorated Osthia; she wanted to be like him. Tough, efficient, a leader—she bellowed at her ‘squad’ of Sisters of Chell.
“C’mon, give me a proper stab! Thrust, thrust, thrust!”
She was having them practice with shortswords, the ones not with dagger Skills, because Osthia didn’t see a place for daggers in a large engagement. Too short. She was envisioning using them as mobile [Rogues] or [Scouts]; skirmishers.
“You shout like that when you’re having sex, Captain?”
Crooknose grunted, and there was a lot of laughter. Osthia glared.
“You lot wouldn’t survive an encounter with a single Mothbear! Now, I’m going to Celum and obtaining reinforcements—I want you running laps around the camp!”
“Hell to that.”
Another Sister muttered and yelped as Osthia thwacked her with her tail. The Sister glared, and Osthia tensed. She was ready to throw down to assert her authority. It was the only thing they seemed to respect. That and gold.
“I’ll have your progress monitored. If you don’t run, you don’t get paid, got it?”
That made them grumble and swear, and she believed they’d do it. The Sisters wouldn’t work hard, but they would do things. Honestly, she’d had more trouble with raw [Recruits] back in Pallass’ army who also thought they could give lip and object.
They’re actually sort of easy to work with, bawdy comments aside. She wouldn’t tell them that, of course. And the main problem was…even if they got Zail’s equipment and trained for a month, she’d still rate them like Level 10 [Soldiers].
Mincemeat the next time a Golem came at them. However, Osthia did her best. She shouted, doled out punches for idiots, and then stomped off to ride with Xesci and Ilvriss to the portal door to Liscor. Then she took a door to Celum.
While Ilvriss got to dance, Xesci got to deal with the Sisters.
 
——
 
Boss Yeire was a loud, huge woman who looked like a brawling, hard-drinking troublemaker to Osthia. She was friendly as could be—to Xesci.
Osthia got spit, literally, on her boots. Yeire wiped her mouth.
“Here’s the Drake who got some of our own killed! Why’re you here? We sent reinforcements!”
She glowered at Osthia until Xesci pinched Yeire’s ear.
“None of that. Be nice.”
“Ow, owowowow—Xesci! Not in front of my gang!”
It was a weird ranking with Xesci around; the Sisters of Chell were rather wary around her, but she was no fighter. She was a civilian who outranked them, which meant she had limits. The other complication was…[Scribe] Zage.
Zage was a short, pedantic woman with spectacles who wrote things down on her clipboard constantly. She had a note that said ‘kick me’ attached to her back, and the Sisters of Chell picked on her. Again, up to a point—she was a ‘bean flicker’, some kind of flunky in charge of maintaining the Sisters’ finances and accounts.
Yeire clearly liked her as much as Osthia, but just as clearly didn’t want to get in that much trouble with their leadership. Whomever they were. She jerked a thumb at Zage.
“Listen, officer-Drake. We’re not the army. You get us killed, there’s a price. You get me? And don’t be upset when we don’t want to send our best.”
She rubbed her fingers together as everyone quieted and nodded. Osthia ground her teeth together.
“The deaths of the Sisters were highly regrettable. I came here to commend them posthumously, not complain. Identifying the deceased was my goal.”
“…What’d she just say?”
Yeire rubbed at one ear, utterly confused by Osthia’s comments, but Zage frowned.
“You wish to issue the members of the Sisters with pensions, Captain? I can accept that on behalf of the Haple.”
Everyone went silent, and Yeire stopped holding out her own hand from the mention of gold. But Osthia just folded her arms.
“I don’t intend on issuing any pensions to anyone except the deceased’s relatives, Miss Zage. I suspect the money would be spread around if I gave it to you or Miss Yeire.”
“Damn right it would! We’ll pour one out for our sisters! You think they’ve got anyone who’ll miss them?”
Yeire shouted, flushing and rising. Xesci put a hand on her arm, but Zage just eyed Osthia.
“I can furnish you with some names, and Boss Yeire may have other details, but she is largely correct, Captain Shieldscale. Sisters of Chell do not have relatives nor…wills.”
“I understand that, Miss. Nevertheless, I have my orders.”
Osthia lied here a bit, because Ilvriss hadn’t given her explicit orders in this, but Zage just peered at her before nodding.
“I will help compile said lists. Boss Yeire?”
“Sounds like a pain in the ass.”
“I believe Haple regards our contract with Wall Lord Ilvriss and Xesci the Changer as important.”
“Oh, if Haple’s saying so—fine.”
Yeire was twice as unhappy, and as Zage walked past her, she kicked the [Accountant] flat on her face.
“Oops! Sorry about that. Piece of paper.”
Everyone laughed, and Osthia rubbed at her forehead. Their visit accomplished little beyond illustrating how chaotic the gangs were. Well, Zage was all business. She wiped at a bloody nose as she handed Osthia a piece of paper thirty minutes later. Yeire’s gang had conferred and given all the names they thought ‘might’ be the dead women’s real names.
“If I may, Captain Shieldscale. The Sisters of Chell have agreed to protect and secure Wall Lord Ilvriss’ project. Casualties are inevitable. Further casualties may result in punitive fines, especially if our members are sacrificed to no point.”
“That was an assassination attempt. Believe me, everyone was in danger, Miss Zage.”
Osthia replied honestly, meeting the sharp eyes of the [Accountant]. Zage nodded, glancing up and down at Osthia.
“So my investigation has revealed. My superiors were concerned as it appeared primarily Sisters were killed in the assassination attempt. I understand this is because your forces were slow to mobilize. Sisters do have an instinct for trouble. Nevertheless, the warning stands.”
That stung on several levels; the Sisters had been faster than the military, because they had no need to organize into squads. And they had…Osthia cleared her throat.
“May I expect further reinforcements?”
“I can offer you more Sisters.”
“Of the…Nightlight and Dusk Prowler ranks? I’d like more senior members.”
Osthia hinted, and Zage’s eyes flicked to Xesci. She nodded and made a note on her clipboard.
“You understand our ranking system. Good. Frankly, Captain Shieldscale, few senior members can be spared or want to join a highly perilous or boring guard job. We have several free-roaming Sisters in the camp who have nullified two [Assassin] attempts already. The lower-ranking members under your command are there for you to make use of.”
“But what are they good for?”
Osthia snapped, and Zage’s eyebrows rose. She wiped at her spectacles.
“Throwing themselves between a Wall Lord and a Golem, Captain? I rather think you wouldn’t have many of Salazsar’s [Soldiers] half so brave. Try not to get your current group killed. And if you require help delivering pensions, we will accept donations on their behalf. And note if they have been dispensed.”
That sounded like a threat. Osthia assured Zage that she wasn’t lying and stomped off to wait for Xesci to finish speaking with the Sisters. When the [Courtesan of Change] was ready to go, she made a point of talking to Zage before strolling out of the base. She had taken the form of a Human woman, tall and rowdy, and she shifted back to the nondescript Drake as they walked together.
Osthia was always unsettled when Xesci changed forms. But the [Courtesan] was calm.
“You’ve got your list, and Yeire’s feathers are smoothed. She thought you were sacrificing her girls, but I cleared up how it went down.”
“With a lot of bribes.”
A shrug from Xesci.
“Gold’s their language. Nothing’s real except if you pay for it. Talk’s cheap. It was good that you were polite to Zage too. She and I used to work together.”
“What, was she doing your taxes in a brothel?”
That might have been a bit too snide from Osthia, who felt like this was a waste of time. Xesci gave her a very cool look, and Osthia bit her tongue.
“No, she and I were working the same profession. [Prostitutes]. She hated the job, but it’s the only kind of living someone could make before the Sisters of Chell.”
“Oh. I—I didn’t mean—so the Sisters are new?”
“Their current iteration is. Bear in mind that Zage reports to the Haple. Yeire never understands that; she won’t ever make a higher rank, but she probably doesn’t care to. The Sisters will keep working with us, at least for now.”
Wait, had that meeting been that important? Osthia turned to half-glance behind them, then exhaled, relieved that Xesci was here. She didn’t understand Gang politics. The two women walked towards the magical door in Celum, and Xesci murmured.
“With that said, Yeire says it’s hard to do business with Lord Xitegen around. He’s quite effective in reshaping Celum. She claims two major gangs ran into him, and he wiped one out very effectively. Several members had to join her. And their leader…oh, here we are. Do you have time to watch a hanging?”
They stopped in an open square with a huge crowd. Osthia saw a gallows had been erected, and a pair of Golems were flanking a woman ready to go to the noose. The Oldblood Drake swallowed hard.
“That’s damn barbaric.”
“Yes, nothing like the axe that Salazsar uses. So much better than other Drake cities like Oteslia and Loeri that practice hanging.”
“Exactly, it’s so slow!”
Xesci rolled her eyes. The two watched anyways, with macabre fascination, as Lord Xitegen made his appearance. And then a certain [Lady]…Osthia had to admit, it was pretty entertaining. It turned out this event had a bearing with later events that came to Ilvriss’ attention.
But she didn’t know all the particulars. She was just…a [Captain].
 
——
 
The next time they had a meeting, Wall Lord Ilvriss was complaining. Well, sort of. He was actually in a good mood.
“We’ve got some new recruiter who’s bringing a score of hires to the camp. I don’t know how, but it’s a vast number. Even a Gnoll tribe, apparently? Xesci, do you know who this woman is? It’s a ‘Damia Reinhart’ which makes me worried it’s some kind of scheme…”
Xesci hmmed as Osthia munched on some waffles from the inn. Waffles with egg and bacon, a classic. Yum. It beat camp rations. She’d utterly missed…whatever was going on while training the lazy Sisters.
“I put out a few feelers. She’s a young Reinhart. She might just want the money. There’s not much known about her, other than that she’s been sleeping with her brother.”
Ilvriss stopped drinking some water, and Osthia’s head snapped up.
“What—is that some Human thing? A Reinhart thing?”
“No, just her. Is she trustworthy? I say let’s just wait and see. Not all Reinharts are purely evil, if that word exists. Just self-serving. Everyone’s forgotten how they work.”
“Well, I’ll accommodate all of them as best I can. And Georgie’s still causing trouble. She’s—or is it he—? Damn, damn. Any word from my Uncle?”
Osthia spoke as she stopped wolfing down waffles before Xesci said something else to put her off her feed.
“Nothing major, sir! He’s bogged down in paperwork. Some kind of very important negotiation in the City of Gems.”
“He’s got top-level clearance. If we can help—and I know we keep getting raided. Damn. But we’re making progress! Listen, Lyonette created some magic boots!”
Xesci and Osthia eyed Ilvriss. He waved his claws excitedly over his head.
“No, I realized that sounds inane, but it was elegant! It was a Solstice event, but in her style. There was the Quarass, and she can dance now!”
The who? And why does this matter? Osthia wasn’t impressed at all until Ilvriss demonstrated the Highstepper, and she had to admit, his feet moved fast. Xesci was quite admiring.
“Wall Lord, you’re really getting the hang of it.”
“Well, it’s not just that. There’s some kind of…magical dance that Mrsha found. A real magical dance, Xesci.”
The [Courtesan] sat up.
“No. Really?”
“Erin had a bunch of instructions for one. We’re going to learn that and the Highstepper. I told you! It’s not quite a Golem-killer, but…”
Magical dances? Osthia snorted quietly. It sounded like a bunch of useless claptrap. She was a [Soldier]. No time for dances. But Ilvriss sprang up, excited.
“It’s worse than the Highstepper in a way. Hugely complicated. And there’s this part at the end that I swear Erin added just to embarrass me. Look, I can do a few parts…”
He executed several snappy moves that would probably look better on a smooth floor, trying to glide over the ground in the tent. Xesci nodded along at the complex stepping, then Ilvriss hesitated.
“…Then you get to this part which Erin swears is part of the dance. And, uh—”
“Show us.”
Ilvriss didn’t want to. But after a second, he threw his arms up. Waved them right, then left. Did a shuffle around in a circle. And then did the finger guns to the right and left.
Osthia wore the blankest expression she could muster as her tail curled around the chair leg and squeezed. Xesci just started laughing.
“That’s the dance?”
“I swear it’s not! But Erin wrote it down, and apparently, the dance only works if I do that—you should see what Lyonette has to do. It gets worse. Remember Ksmvr’s silly dance? You do that, slap your butt, spin around three times, and that’s while I’m waving my arms around like a tree in a windstorm…and then I flap my arms like a duck—stop laughing, I swear it’s written down in her notes.”
The hilarity of Ilvriss dancing aside, Captain Osthia didn’t have anything to add to her report.
“I think the Sisters are actually learning, sir. But slowly. I have a list of names of the dead, but I need to make sure they’re actually the deceased. The Sisters use so many pseudonyms, you see…”
Ilvriss’ smile faded. He nodded and sat.
“Of course, Osthia. Let me know if I can help.”
She nodded and excused herself after polishing off the rest of the food. Osthia went back to her tent and sat there.
Alone. When she wasn’t working, Osthia didn’t have friends to socialize with. Xesci, Ilvriss, and Nerul were her companions. The rest of Ilvriss’ people had never quite taken to her.
She was alone. So what did Osthia do with the remainder of her night? She poured herself a drink of Firebreath Whiskey, put it on a little end table next to her bed—she had an actual bed even out here, which she was grateful for, and she’d heard Ilvriss was fixing their atrocious bathroom situation—and read. She read a lot these days.
And she had more reading to do. Osthia shook out the pages and lifted the dog-eared corner to find where she’d left off. It was nothing like a book. Just a bunch of reports she’d accessed via Salazsar’s shared military command. It had taken a lot of work from Nerul to get it to her without tripping some major flags, actually. Chaldion retiring had helped.
This is what the scrawled notes said:
 
Witheart Hiscale (Gnoll), Age 34. [Level 16 Soldier]. Pallass’ 3rd Army, 3rd Battalion, 6th Company, Squad 2. Private, 1st Class.
Notes: -Reprimanded twice for personal hygiene, court-martialed for striking an officer, 5th Army.
-Charges revoked and induction into 3 Army by General Thrissiam’s orders.
-Body never identified. Marked as ‘Killed in Action’ after [Casualty Report: Name the Fallen] deployed.
-One son in Hilight city, potential for recruitment after coming of age.
 
The report was, well, nothing. Age, name, rank. And a few details about the Gnoll’s life. Osthia poured over the file for details, and she found some interesting things.
A Gnoll with a Drake’s name. He was definitely Pallassian-born, though he hadn’t grown up in Pallass, but a periphery city, Hilight. He had a son and was married, according to the file. If she read between the lines, he’d been written up formally—an actual problem compared to a minor incident—for ‘bad hygiene’.
Which sounded like a Drake officer taking objection to a Gnoll under his command. Bad hygiene was really hard to actually be fouled for. Especially because General Thrissiam himself had intervened after the incident had escalated into a fight, pulling Witheart into his army.
From 4th. That meant General Edellein and his nephew might have clashed over this. Edellein gave his officers way more leeway than Thrissiam had. Osthia hadn’t known about any of this, of course. She’d never known Witheart, and the Gnoll hadn’t been that outstanding. He had joined Pallass’ army, done well enough to be a decent [Soldier], but without any real promotion…
And then he had died fighting the Goblin Lord. Two armies of Drakes and Gnolls had died in the mountains, unburied, their bodies animated to fight for the Goblin Lord, and it hadn’t been that long ago, but it felt like it.
Who remembered that battle after the Meeting of Tribes? Or even the Goblin Lord’s fall at Liscor? After the Winter Solstice, 2nd Army going down in the High Passes?
It was just one more event in Pallass’ recent history of defeats and losses—and oh, Ancestors, they had a lot. You could be forgiven for forgetting it. There had been no survivors.
Just one.
Just Captain Osthia Blackwing. She alone had lived, and so she read Witheart Hiscale’s report, then pulled up another file. Even briefer, about his life. She’d paid for a local [Informant] to dig up anything they had on him. Nothing major; she hadn’t paid for actual legwork, just anything on file. She had used her salary for this, and while Ilvriss was generous, she had paid for…tens of thousands of reports.
“Nothing on Witheart. Son…arrested twice for delinquency. After father’s death. Charges not filed due to father’s status.”
A kid without a father running with gangs. Or just mad and tearing up the city. Osthia put the report down. Sat in her bed and tried to remember if she’d ever seen…
No.
She hadn’t. But she put the file aside, carefully, and wrote his name down on another piece of paper. A list.
It wasn’t long. Only four thousand entries so far. Given how much time had passed…but she tried to be thorough. Someone had to be. Osthia knew there were lists of the dead. She’d read them.
Just…it was her list. Someone had to write it. Someone had to know the brave men and women who had died, from General Thrissiam and General Garusa on down.
That was how she spent her nights. Quietly, Osthia read for an hour and a half until she put the pages aside and picked up a new document. This one was fresher, and she read from it. It was even less precise.
“‘Adder’, Age 25-ish. Full Sister of Chell. Ran with Boss Yeire’s gang for two years—after original gang beaten and assimilated. No children. ‘Mentioned her old man and spat a lot.’ Bimthe? Came from Ocre so I dunno, ask them Sisters there or something.”
She wrote that down slowly. Bimthe. And Ocre. She’d have to ask Xesci to help contact the Sisters there, or maybe she could inquire about the name. Who’d have a registry of names of people in the city? Runner’s Guild.
Osthia scanned the brief biography of a dead woman’s life and wondered which one she’d been. The one with scarlet hair? No—she read the next page.
“Scarlett. So that was her…”
The Drake kept reading into the night until she fell asleep and had to turn out her lamp and roll over in bed. The papers crinkled as she put them aside. And slept. She hated the Necromancer. She would see him dead.
But the fury that had kept her going for a long while felt tired sometimes. Really, what kept Osthia going some nights was just the dead.
She slept on a pile of bodies. Faceless, lying still, a Drake sleeping amidst a silent battlefield’s end. When she looked down…a few faces stared up at her, recognizable. Thrissiam’s. Garusa’s…and now a new one.
Witheart gazed up at Osthia, a resentful expression on his face as he lay there. Bitter in death, an arrow sticking out of his collarbone, fur savaged by Ghoul teeth, yellow armor bent and broken.
The horror of it was just one of the countless tens of thousands. And now there were dead women as well, torn to pieces by a Golem’s knives. She didn’t know any of their faces yet.
She would. The Drake slept, gazing down at the dead as she lay there. Knowing she was dreaming.
She had been Osthia Blackwing, Level 24 [Oldblood Wing Captain], a perfectly respectable, if ordinary enough class.
Tonight, the only other being who knew the names and faces of all the dead in her dreams whispered to her. As it sometimes did.
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 21!]
[Skill – Identify True Name (Daily) Obtained!]
[Condition – Battlefield of the Silent (Dreams) Intensified.]
[Aspect – Odour of Carrion (Dreams) Obtained.]
 
The Drake shifted as she inhaled, and then she could smell the urine and feces coming from spilled intestines. The sweat, terror, and blood. The rot.
She kept sleeping. Embracing it.
It was no worse than her other dreams. If anything, she was grateful.
It meant she didn’t forget.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had left for yet another visit to The Wandering Inn when two events occurred involving Osthia. The first was when she met the new commander of Ilvriss’ fighting forces.
Osthia had been worried about that, actually. She wasn’t under his authority, but that was the thing—some commanders could get tetchy about anyone outside of their realm of command. Uncle Edellein? A great example of that.
However, this particular commander had been vouched for by Zail and clearly had passed Ilvriss’ personal inspection. And he found Osthia before she could introduce herself.
She was just finished shouting at the Sisters of Chell and telling them why they were maggots—and getting their insults in return—when a Drake coughed and saluted.
“Captain Shieldscale? I’m in charge of this expedition for the foreseeable future. Don’t worry, I’m not some fool who’ll insist on breathing down your neck spines. Nor am I angling to replace you; I’ve got other missions in mind, but I did think this was worth sticking around for, as a favor to Wall Lord Zail. He’s quite worried about his son, despite how he talks, and if there’s a hope for some interspecies peace despite all the tensions, I’m here for it.”
Of all the openers—Osthia blinked as she held out a claw and got a solid handshake. It was pre-calculated to assuage her concerns, but it was also so open and contrary to most commanders’ perspectives. No wonder Zail had approved of the Drake.
At the same time, Osthia clearly saw why this fellow had been discharged, dishonorably or not. He had multiple visible scars and had even lost an eye in battle, but unusually, had a prosthetic eye that stared with a bright, gemstone glow. And a leg made out of green wood that was articulated enough to look like a real one. He’d been through something.
He seemed…highly veteran, and he also carried a sword she bet he was good with. Something about the way he moved just screamed to her that if he wasn’t Level 40, he was approaching it.
“I wasn’t in fear of losing my job, sir. But it’s good to know I can work with you. I’m in charge of the Sisters of Chell, for my sins.”
She smiled. He did not return it, which made her slightly uneasy; she’d thought it was a good joke. Instead, the Drake nodded around the dig site.
“I’ve been impressed with Wall Lord Ilvriss. I had already heard of him, but this operation makes him one of the few Drakes worth a damn in my books. I apologize if I’m candid; war rubs off niceties. I’ll stick around to make sure he stays alive, then I’m off for another command unless I find a real reason to stay. I doubt it. Again, so we can stay professional and not snipe at each other for position this entire time.”
Okay, he’d definitely had to talk with Welsca and the others. Osthia frowned as she crossed her arms.
“Where to, sir? And which war? Salazsar and Fissival?”
Some city-to-city war she didn’t know? The Drake’s good eye sharpened, and his tone became more brusque, annoyed—until he forced it down. But he had a temper.
“The war, Captain! Apologies…I know it’s not top-of-mind around here, but coming home is not pleasant, and I was warned. I’ve forgotten to introduce myself. Major Shellc. Formerly of Manus; I’m redeploying to Rhir once I’ve completed my contract with House Gemscale. Wall Lord Zail was worried I’d be down after getting drubbed out of the City of War, and I appreciate his hospitality, but I know where I’m needed.”
Rhir? Osthia was entirely surprised, so the [Major] explained.
“I’ve been serving there for the last three years. My command was—lost. I was the only command survivor among the Drakes. We were on 5th Wall when the Death of Magic returned.”
“Dead gods. I remember that!”
Osthia was astounded, then horrified. Shellc nodded and took a huge breath.
“I was a [Captain] under Commander Cirille at the time. We fought with a bunch of irregulars—I’m surprised anyone remembers us.”
“I—I recall the incident, sir. I’m—it was a tragedy.”
“Yes.”
That was all the Drake said. Then Osthia had a thousand questions.
“How did you end up here, sir?”
Shellc’s twisted smile became a grimace.
“Simple. I kept on in Rhir after my command was destroyed. They couldn’t drag me back for love or money. Drakes don’t run. I owed it to the others to stay. Not that I blame anyone who left, of course. But I was still an officer of Manus. They called me back for a report and, potentially, reassignment.”
“Makes sense. They’d want your expertise.”
They were walking around the dig camp, and Shellc spat to the side.
“Everyone wants advice until you tell them something they don’t want to hear. I was frank in how I saw the situation in Izril. Too frank, clearly. Well, I couldn’t hold my temper. I told some idiot we shouldn’t be fighting the north and then heard someone say that Fissival might have been right in taking the Gnolls’ magic. A few punches to other officers and I earned my discharge.”
Osthia winced. Yep, that was a good way to get yourself kicked out of the military, even if you were a war hero. Shellc barely seemed to care. His fake leg kept pace very well thanks to his Skills.
“I’ll head back to Rhir, and they don’t care if Manus dropped me. That’s where we need to be. The Deaths are back, and we’re squabbling over the New Lands and fighting each other!”
It was a variant of her and Ilvriss’ complaint about the state of the Walled Cities. But Rhir? Osthia cleared her throat.
“We have some issues here, Major.”
“Oh, yes. The Antinium. I’m well aware of that issue, which is why I came back. Nothing like a firsthand view to give Rhir an awareness of how bad it might be. Still, I appreciate Wall Lord Ilvriss working with Gnolls and hiring Humans. That’s what I learned in Rhir, Captain. Flexibility of thinking. I was an idiot most of my time there, until the end…but if I have anything to give beyond purely tactical advice, I’ll deliver it.”
He smiled at her, and she nodded at him, resisting the urge to ask him about the Death of Magic or that battle—he must get that a lot. And that was all she thought about the matter.
She noticed Major Shellc moving around the different dig sites, of course. Peering around, making recommendations. He apparently shared Ilvriss’ notions about Drake hierarchies too because he drubbed down two officers for ‘toxic leadership’ publicly.
He was not here to make friends. But he was also apparently amazing with a sword. Osthia even heard that regular [Soldiers] had joined the Rubirel Guard in clearing the undead in the mining tunnels; they refused to engage the Rubirel Guard, who were virtually invulnerable to most threats with their armor.
However, she was just…dealing with the Sisters of Chell. By now, Osthia had developed a routine where she trained them multiple times per day, taking the youngest Nightlights and making them run, do pressups, even lift some weights, anything to get them into fighting trim.
They were still pains in the tail, even if they actually did most of what she wanted with only giving her lip as the consequence. But they weren’t good with the shortswords she issued them. Daggers? Okay. Clubs, throwing weapons? She supposed they were adequate, but nothing she’d trust them for in a pitched battle!
She didn’t realize Shellc was watching her until she saw him after kicking around Boyd, Crooknose, and one of her squads. He beckoned to her as she wiped sweat from her brows.
“Captain Shieldscale, a word?”
“Yes, Major?”
He walked her away from the training arena.
“I understand you’re one of Ilvriss’ special adjutants. Including, ah, Miss Xesci?”
“Yes…”
“Fascinating woman. Rhir could use someone like her, though she laughed the idea off.”
Shellc saw Osthia’s jaw drop and raised his brows.
“Soldiers need an outlet, and she’s more widely travelled than you or I put together, Captain. Honestly, I expected the same from you, but either you’re playing a game I don’t see or we need to have a word. What’s your end-goal with these Sisters of Chell?”
“Sir? Getting them to actual fighting trim, sir! They’re a miserable lot. Some were quite courageous in the line of duty, but the rest don’t do much. I’ve been trying to make something out of them.”
Shellc made a beckoning gesture at Osthia.
“Expound on that, Captain.”
“Sir?”
“You want to make them…what? What position do you envision them in?”
“Er, scout-rogues, sir. Skirmishers. Hit and run given that even with armor, they won’t be up for much. I believe Wall Lord Zail is sending some gear, but even with that, they’ll fall behind a regular [Scout] troop. Still, do what we can with them.”
Something was wrong. Shellc was staring up at the sky, then at the Sisters, who were sitting around probably gossiping about Osthia. He exhaled slowly.
“Captain Shieldscale, I was told that my commander, Cirille, once got an offer from no less than Wall Lord Ilvriss. She was mulling it over when 5th Wall fell.”
“She did? I mean, I do recall something about that, sir.”
Shellc nodded.
“I wish she’d gone a day early. Izril needed her perspective, and I think Wall Lord Ilvriss was actually the Drake who would have worked with her. Cirille was a [Combined Arms Commander]. Someone who got synergy Skills for both Drakes and Gnolls under her command.”
“I…see. An interesting class, sir.”
“An unprecedented class for any officer in the south, Captain. And a powerful one, I think. We never saw its full potential, but it taught me the same lesson I’m going to teach you. Take a good look at those Humans over there.”
“Sir?”
She directed her attention at the Sisters of Chell. They were eying her and Shellc. One raised a middle finger. Boyd was picking her nose. Shellc grinned at them.
“Tell me, in what way do the Sisters of Chell exceed a standard Salazsarian unit’s capabilities?”
“Sir? You mean in levels or competencies?”
“Tell me something the Sisters of Chell can do that you’ve observed you can’t. An improvement you think you should take to whatever command you have moving forwards.”
Osthia tried to think about it, but she was put on the spot.
“Er, their ability to intercept [Assassins] and other lowlifes, sir? I imagine their capabilities in theft, underworld talents—”
She turned her head to look at him, right into Major Shellc’s full glower. He put a hand on the hilt of his sword.
“Captain Shieldscale. It’s my opinion from serving with other species that there are plenty of things each species can do that we Drakes can’t. If you have nothing good to say about your command, then you don’t deserve them.”
“Wh—sir.”
Osthia saluted, growing red under the unexpected reprimand. Shellc snorted.
“Don’t sir me. Speak freely.”
Her jaw worked.
“Sir, I am working with members of one of Izril’s largest gangs. They are lazy, insubordinate—”
“Captain Shieldscale, if you were working with [Soldiers] from Salazsar, I would accept your complaint. Did they or did they not suffer the only significant casualties defending Wall Lord Ilvriss from that Golem?”
“They did, sir. But the rest of the soldiers who responded were armored, and they are still critically flawed for any kind of military operation—”
Shellc glanced past Osthia.
“I’d put ‘speed of response’ on that list, Captain Shieldscale, then, wouldn’t you? Bravery?”
“Well, I wouldn’t say bravery, but—”
She fell silent. Would she say bravery? Yes, for the ones who’d died, but not all the Sisters. Shellc shook his head slowly.
“Captain Shieldscale. In my position as commander of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ standing forces here, making use of all hands without prejudice is where I believe I’m useful. I’ve had to dress down a number of Drakes who don’t appreciate our Gnoll friends. Humans are still a minority here, but the only reason a lot of Gnolls are here is because they know Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company is equal-opportunity. And because he respects them, and so do I.”
“Yessir, I appreciate that sir—”
Shellc stuck a finger in Osthia’s face.
“Of course you do. You’ve served with Gnolls. I can tell; that’s good. But I suggest you’re treating our other allies, the Sisters of Chell, like the most junior, close-minded new [Lieutenant] you could name.”
“Sir, I protest! I’m not calling them furbags—”
“No, you’re not slinging names. Congratulations. And no, you’re not as bad as some idiots which is why Ilvriss gave you the job. Being the best of the trash pile doesn’t mean anything, Captain Shieldscale. You don’t feel like you’re getting anywhere with them? That’s because you’re not. Only, the problem isn’t them, it’s you.”
Shellc poked Osthia in the chest, and she saw why he’d been discharged. She wanted to take a swing at him.
“Sir, if you would care to deal with the Sisters of Chell, I’m sure you’ll find they’re difficult.”
He gave her a one-eyed glare as he closed his good eye.
“I’m sure they are, Captain. And you know what? You win the loyalty of good soldiers. If I must, I’ll do just that, though I don’t have the time. If you don’t change how you are working with the Sisters in my estimation by the end of the week, I will petition Wall Lord Ilvriss to replace you.”
Is that a threat? It sounded great! However, Osthia’s scales itched at the way he said it! She threw a salute.
“Yessir, understood! Permission to get back to it?”
“Denied, Captain. Go for a walk.”
“Sir—”
“Go for a walk, curse me out, and think about what I said. You’re not an idiot. Don’t start acting like some hidebound Drake who thinks the Walled Cities can do no wrong. Dismissed.”
She stormed off, and Major Shellc sighed.
“Dead gods. Sometimes I miss Rhir.”
 
——
 
Osthia was so mad she had to avoid other people because she was literally breathing acid fumes. She flew around the dig sites, cursing Shellc loudly because—well—
Things stung when they had a point! She didn’t like how he’d delivered it; he had no grace or tact, but the part about the Sisters saving Ilvriss really stuck.
I never got why they did that. Xesci said it was because they knew they’d get paid five gold coins for saving his life. Is that it?
Five gold coins. For five gold coins, she’d do a decent amount of things, but put herself between a stranger and death?
No way.
Yet they’d done it. And…she flew lower over Dig Site C, which was largely abandoned now that everyone was going after the undead mine. It was close enough to Dig Site B that they’d set up a number of these holes in the ground, then abandoned them and filled them in when they’d found nothing. She floated there.
“How am I supposed to win their trust? They don’t want to learn to fight—well, they don’t mind learning better ways to stab. But they’re criminals. Once this is done, they’re gone. Am I supposed to like them? They’re damned gang members.”
She sank lower, thinking. And she’d not even dispensed the pensions. She’d confirmed a number of names with her new Skill, but finding the actual relatives from that took time, and no one could exactly deliver the news.
Busy and yet doing nothing. Story of her life of late. Osthia almost wished Shellc took the Sisters from her. She knew what they did to men they didn’t like, and she’d even been told by Crooknose that the Sisters took souvenirs.
And yet…when she slept, the dead were piled up, and the Sisters of Chell gazed up at her too. They had a place amongst the honored dead, even in that horror Skill. So what should she—?
Wait. There was movement in Dig Site #3. Osthia saw several Drakes and a Gnoll moving across the site’s floors and ramps spiralling downward. Sprinting, actually. It still appeared slow to her. But they were running.
Running…from another shape that emerged out of one of the mining tunnels. A…white figure. On horseback?
Osthia swooped lower, and then she heard the screams in the air. And the figure below her became clear.
A skeleton with glowing orange eyes, covered in armor of bone. A massive dreadnought of a skeleton with armor made out of ivory, an amalgamation of bones, riding a horse equally armored. A [Knight] of undeath.
“A Skeleton Knight?”
It was beyond any undead she had ever seen before. Osthia had fought mounted undead, rarely, in her time in 3rd Army. But this thing looked like an actual…
The Bone Dreadnought brought down a huge mace and tossed one of the fleeing Drakes down into the pit. It raised its weapon overhead and howled. A shriek like some bird—right before Osthia sprayed it with acid.
Its bones smoked, and it recoiled. Osthia shouted as she drew her sword.
“Run! Sound the alarm!”
The alarm was sounding across Dig Site #3, she realized. But so few—no one was here. All the Rubirel Guard, the [Soldiers], undercover and real—they were where they expected the undead to be.
And the miners were so used to hearing the alarm for the damn Humans that they were slow to react. Osthia flung a wing out, darting right past the Dreadnought, whose head turned to regard her. She spat acid again; it raised a shield and blocked the acid! Then flicked the shield and sprayed her own acid back at her!
“Ancestors!”
Osthia was immune to her own acid, but it smoked on her light armor as she floated out of reach in the open air. The Dreadnought could not reach her, so it turned its horse and began to thunder after the other miners.
“Stop!”
Osthia flew after it, then nearly missed the flicker in the air. She turned her head—
[Emergency Maneuver]!
She skimmed up and around in a tight spiral, dodging the figure that reappeared for just a moment. A pale white Drake, denuded of scales, and who seemed almost…sticky. Osthia’s panicked mind and her studies of undead told her what it was.
Wight.
It went tumbling into the center of the dig site, but she saw it squirming and getting up, even after the multi-story fall. Osthia whirled, and then her heart sank. She saw something peeking at her from the mine shaft the two undead had come from.
A giant…eye. It was glowing and pulsated oddly, in a pale face of twisted bone. Then the ‘eye’ winked out, and she realized it had been a magical eye in an empty socket.
Not a round socket, either. Nor a round head. A lumpen ‘head’ of bone with huge, black voids was tottering around, an oversized head on tiny little legs that she realized were made up of hands.
She—she didn’t know what kind of undead it was. Only that as the head rotated, more ‘eyes’ appeared, magical irises focusing on her. Drawing her in—
Osthia slammed into the ground so hard she nearly broke both her arms and her ribs. Only one of her skills, [Lightweight Frame], saved her. It broke the hypnotic gaze the undead had placed over her.
Mind control Skill. She struggled to breathe, to get up.
The undead have tunneled out of their mine. Flanking. We have to stem them here. She flew up just in time. A scuttling scorpion with too many legs had been advancing on her. It had an oversized Drake’s skull for a head and a stinger that oozed black putrescence.
Advanced undead.
“Alarm! To arms! To—”
When she flew higher, avoiding the eye-undead, Osthia saw [Miners] fleeing. The Bone Dreadnought was running them down, swinging a red mace down, and everything it hit—
She dove at it. Osthia had an enchanted sword and some magical gear. She knew she wasn’t ready, but someone had to stop it.
“[Diagonal Slash]! [Hit and Away]! [Acid Globule]!”
She cut across the Dreadnought’s back, her enchanted blade leaving a scar of flames on the thick bone, backflipped into the air as it swung at her, and spat a glob of acid.
This time, it began to melt part of the horse’s rear, and the Dreadnought swatted at it as the undead horse reared and came back. It charged Osthia as she dipped low, and she spun.
“[Pierce Stab]!”
She tried to execute a kill attack, but the Dreadnought raised a shield, and she just took a big divot out of the bones. Osthia cursed and flew higher.
The giant skeleton on horseback eyed her as she circled, then went back to pursuing the living. It didn’t attack even when she spat more acid on it.
Damn it, it was intelligent! It knew it couldn’t hurt her, so—
She was coming in for another attack on the horse to slow it down when she saw the giant undead’s arm droop. That was the only warning she got before it half-turned and threw something at her.
The blow clipped her, and she hit the ground—hard. When Osthia peered up, she had a hole in one of her wings. The pain was faint; her blood was pounding, and she rolled.
[Deflect Projectile]!
She knocked the second object aside and got a look at it. It was…a piece of the Dreadnought’s body. It had ripped part of its armor out to hurl it.
“Insanity.”
Osthia staggered upright. She set herself, knowing she couldn’t fly. She took a two-handed grip on her sword, walking left as the Dreadnought swung its mace up. It rode at her, and she saw death in its swing. It raised the mace high as it shrieked again, and a dagger’s hilt bounced off its head.
“Shit.”
Boyd lowered her hand and turned dead white as the Dreadnought’s head rotated slowly towards her. Osthia shouted.
“You idiots—”
[Sword Art: The Rising Phoenix]! She activated her Skill, launching into an uppercut with her blade as the Dreadnought was distracted. It brought its shield up, blocking the flaming cut, and Osthia twisted, flapping back and avoiding the return blow. The Dreadnought tried to charge her as she half-crashed to the ground, landing on one knee. Then it glanced down.
Its mount took a shaky step. Then collapsed onto one knee. The Dreadnought stood as the horse, whose head was melted and half-severed by Osthia’s Skill, collapsed. Osthia shouted.
“Get back! Get Major Shellc!”
“Oh fuck me with a battering ram, that’s not a regular undead—”
Crooknose paused as the Sisters of Chell, half the morning squad, halted. She threw a dagger at something—Osthia twisted.
The invisible Wight leapt, but the dagger thunked into its arm, and Osthia dodged left. It still clipped her, and she half-froze, muscles going dead.
Nononono—she couldn’t get her sword up, but she breathed acid straight into its face. It wasn’t expecting that and shrieked as it clawed at the acid. It rolled away—and then Girnol put a shortsword in its head. She tried to ram it through the Wight’s head, but the undead was too tough! It snarled, snapping as she stabbed at it—then the Sister put her boot down and hopped up on her blade.
Like someone pushing a shovel through the earth. There was a wet crking sound, and she jerked as the blade pierced the Wight’s head. It began jerking, and she shoved.
“Fucking—it’s so—”
Osthia got up and axe kicked the blade down. The Wight spasmed and then went down. Girnol panted, wide-eyed, as Osthia felt the paralysis wearing off.
“Hey, Capt’n. How much was that worth?”
She grinned at Osthia, then swore and pivoted.
“Hells, there’s—”
Girnol’s blade flashed, and she tried to deflect the blur of motion. But the stinger was larger than her hand and cracked forwards with such force that it gouged a chunk out of her hand. Osthia turned and saw the scorpion. She exhaled, and it ignored the acid.
“Let’s get—”
A throwing dagger from Girnol’s offhand bounced off its face. It lunged, and she grabbed the mouth mandibles before they could bite her, and the stinger jabbed again.
It went through Girnol’s chest.
Blood splattered Osthia’s face. Girnol’s eyes turned glassy, and she sagged. Osthia recoiled; the stinger withdrew and jabbed.
She parried it as the scorpion came after her. She slashed across its face.
“Reinforcements! Fall back! Fall—”
“I’ve got it! I’ve got—”
Someone threw a net over the scorpion. Boyd. It began to jab furiously, and the Nightlight lifted a dagger.
“How do we—”
“Get out of here! Fall back!”
Osthia shoved at Boyd. Then she heard Crooknose shouting.
“Hey, hey, run! It’s fixin’ itself! It’s—”
The Dreadnought. It had gone still when its horse had fallen, and Osthia had forgotten it. But now—she saw the horse rising onto its legs again. Its head, that she had nearly cut in half, was gleaming. Bone.
More pieces of the Dreadnought. It snapped its armor closed with one hand, seamlessly repairing its body. Then it charged her. On foot. The horse galloped at Osthia, screaming silently.
“Hells—”
[Flaming Slash]! Osthia slashed along the horse’s side as it charged at her and thought she’d dodged—it hit Boyd in the chest, and the young woman screamed. Once—right before she went falling into Dig Site #3.
Tumbling over the guardrails, straight down. All the way to the bottom.
Osthia never heard the scream cut off. She lifted her still-flaming blade and concentrated. Breathed a mixture of acid on it.
The acid hit the fire, and it grew hotter. Acidblaze. She lifted the sword, knowing it had thirty seconds before the acid wore off. The Dreadnought thundered at her. Swung horizontally. She kicked up, leaping over the mace with her good wing—realized it wanted that as the shield came up and it swatted her down. Like a bug.
Osthia lay there. She gazed up and rolled out of the way of the mace. So the Dreadnought just stomped her. She heard her ribs break like cheap pottery. Then the scorpion leapt on her. It had razors on its legs and began to claw at the Drake until Osthia’s acidblaze sword burned a hole straight through its head.
It collapsed, and Crooknose tried to heave the undead off Osthia.
“Hey, Boyd. Kid, kid, where’d you—”
Osthia couldn’t speak. She tried to lift a shaking claw. Crooknose blinked at her, began to turn her head, and stepped sideways as the Dreadnought raised its mace. It brought it down like dull thunder, then the Drake saw Crooknose staggering from the impact that had shaken the ground.
It had missed her? She leapt away, shouting, trying to draw its attention away from Osthia. Up the mace whirled, a horizontal sweep that would have crushed Crooknose if she hadn’t jumped it in a single leap Skill. Then the Dreadnought threw a piece of its armor.
Crooknose landed on the ground, a hole in her side. She spasmed and lay still. The Dreadnought closed a fist in a single motion of victory. Then it turned and regarded Osthia. She lay there, hating the smile that split its helmet-like face. The mockery of brave knights in armor.
The mace rose again, then the Dreadnought turned. Osthia saw it recoil, then bring up its shield. It took a step back, and Major Shellc advanced, eye glowing as he held his sword, tip pointed at its chest.
Rubirel Guard—running past her. Grappling with a multi-headed Ghoul. Then—someone heaving the skeleton scorpion off Osthia.
A pair of Sisters of Chell, white-faced. Lifting the broken Drake out of the impression in the ground. The last thing Osthia saw, before the world faded out, was one throwing a dagger at the Bone Dreadnought’s back. Right before Major Shellc activated a sword dance. And then—
Then she was staring down at the pile of bodies. And Crooknose was gaping up at her as Osthia’s blood dripped down onto her face. Crooknose, Girnol, and…
 
[Covert Wing Captain Level 34!]
[Skill – Unit: Piercing Weapons Obtained!]
 
——
 
She lived. Being stomped on by the Dreadnought instead of turned to paste by its mace…they had to use a healing potion on her, since her insides were badly damaged.
There was no using healing potions on the Sisters of Chell. They had died. Six of them. Osthia had only seen two die.
Major Shellc delivered the report to her, despite the [Healer]’s objections.
“We didn’t know they could tunnel. Didn’t believe they’d think strategically. We’re all idiots. Now it’s a damn race to both corner them and keep all the other exits secure. They must be trying to escape. Either that or they’re trying to divide and flank us. Either way, their levels are way too high.”
“D-Dreadnought. Did you—?”
His face was grim.
“I got it. Barely, with support. The undead with all those holes drew a squad into the tunnels and minced them there before fleeing. We’re trying to identify what it was. Aside from that, casualties were only the first [Miners]…and your squad. I’ve written a commendation for all of them and yourself, Captain Shieldscale.”
“Why’d they do it?”
She didn’t understand. The [Major] stood there, tired, as he glanced around.
“You’d have to ask the survivors, Captain. Why do some people run into burning buildings? Brave kids. Get some sleep.”
Tears were leaking from the [Wing Captain]’s eyes. Shellc then seemed to focus on another bed. He slapped the table since Osthia was still completely bandaged.
“Don’t fall apart on me, Captain. More of those Sisters are coming, and they need your leadership. Someone who can stop them from getting killed and who knows what they’ve done. At least one of your squad there survived. Probably more.”
She didn’t know what he meant. Not until Osthia dragged herself up, despite her mending ribs, and realized she’d seen only two familiar faces in the Skill that haunted her dreams.
Boyd, the youngest Nightlight with her messy red hair cut short by a knife, was staring up at the ceiling. Her neck was in a cast and she’d broken her right hand in two places, her leg, and half as many ribs as Osthia, but the horse knocking her down into the dig site hadn’t killed her.
She stared upwards as the swaying Drake gaped at her. Then Osthia fainted, and for once, she didn’t see the pile of the dead.
Just a scared girl who’d attacked undead horrors staring up at the roof of the tent. Grateful to be alive.
 
——
 
No one called on Osthia even after she was discharged from the [Healer]’s tent and was limping around. Osthia had no crutches or wheelchair; the broken ground meant both would trouble her chest a lot.
Rather, she had orders to use her powers to hover or suspend herself in the air. Oldblood Drakes, much like other too-heavy flying species, could regulate their body weight. Unlike Garuda, who actually flew, Osthia could reduce her weight, and she had a Skill.
It still hurt. She was not able to train or do…anything. Not that her command was in any shape to train.
Losing more Sisters to the undead attack had the women who presented themselves to her for inspection dead quiet. They avoided looking at her. Played with daggers, scuffed at their boots, muttered about Crooknose noticing the alarms and beating all the other idiots—
But there was no will to continue from them. They’d seen what happened when they went into fights in Ilvriss’ dig site. Osthia didn’t blame them. Veteran [Soldiers] would have stopped after seeing the results of the Golem and undead attacks.
She just didn’t understand why they’d gone in the first place. The answer was in the kid who also was discharged from the [Healer]’s tent.
“Boyd. Front and center.”
Boyd’s arm was still in a sling, and she had one leg that was braced; she limped over as Osthia read from a little notecard.
“For your service in combat, you are awarded a commendation by House Gemscale. So are Crooknose, Girnol, Redshark, Brier…”
She had a bag of coins, which Boyd accepted and instantly opened to count. It was a lot more gold than she was expecting. She shot a glance at the others before putting it in her money pouch.
“…I’m also issuing posthumous commendations as well as pensions to the dead.”
Osthia finished, and someone laughed. More like a snort of derision.
“Just give it to us, Captain. Not like it’s going to any of their kin.”
Osthia regarded the speaker, a Sister of Chell. The rest of the lower-ranked Sisters shuffled their feet, but they were too dispirited even for wisecracks. Before, Osthia would have snapped at them or ignored the comment. Right now, she just hung in the air, feet hovering off the ground. Like a broken puppet herself.
“Sister…Marigold?”
“Marrygold. Good name, ain’t it? Proper nickname for the streets. I always told old Crooknose—that ain’t no name. If you’re gonna choose one, get a real good name.”
It sounded like how Goblins made their names up. Apparently, there was some weird overlap between Goblins and the gangs, at least, according to Reiss. One Goblin Chieftain worked with the gangs. Osthia just met Marrygold’s eyes.
“Do you object to your fallen sister’s kin getting a pension?”
“Object? They’re not getting one because they don’t exist! Who cares about nothing-women? The only people who coulda used the gold were Crooknose and the others. And they’re dead.”
Marrygold’s eyes narrowed, and Osthia exhaled. So that was the skepticism she remembered Yeire and Zage expressing. She nodded at Marrygold, and everything hurt. Most of all her heart.
“That’s fair. It’s not been easy to track down their identities. I understand there is skepticism. But given my current state…I’m appointing you as a bodyguard and part of my—squad. You too, Boyd. You can watch me giving out the pensions.”
The hostile Sister hesitated. She rubbed at one ear that had a huge chunk taken out of it.
“Huh?”
 
——
 
The Sisters of Chell didn’t believe Osthia had found any of the dead women’s relatives. Osthia herself had doubts on the carriage ride to Ocre.
Magical carriage ride; they had to hire a Wistram Magical Carriage™ because anything else would have hurt her and Boyd’s ribs. Osthia and three other Sisters of Chell entered the coach and waited as it sent them northwards.
At first, in silence. But silence could only last so long. After a while, the Sisters began to talk.
“So, Boyd, what’d you get, kid?”
“H-huh? My gold?”
Boyd covered her money pouch, but Marrygold rolled her eyes.
“Not that. Though you’d best save your dues for Boss Yeire. Or are you local? Whatever, you’d better pay what’s owed or you’ll get that other leg broke.”
“If there are any fees, I will pay them.”
Osthia snapped, and Marrygold sat back.
“Ooh, scary. Don’t get her riled up or she’ll break another rib at you. I meant levels, Boyd. You gotta have gotten some for challenging those fucking undead. Who does that?”
They gazed at Osthia, and Boyd muttered.
“I got four. An’ a new class.”
Everyone stirred at that. Four levels and a class for—?
For attacking insanely advanced undead, alone, and getting hurled down multiple stories into the ground? That was the least you deserved. After some badgering, Boyd revealed she’d changed her class from [Street Blade] to [Brave Knife].
“Ooh. Nice! You could be a Bronze-rank adventurer with that. Silver-rank. All fancy n’ shit.”
The other Sisters applauded with less irony than Osthia thought. They pestered Boyd for her Skills, one of which was, apparently, [Break Fall].
Skills after life-or-death experiences were usually ironic like that. But Boyd revealed one Skill that had Osthia’s brows raising.
“Say that again? [Heroic Stab]?”
She’d never heard of a Skill like that—well, not from anyone she’d actually met. Boyd demonstrated; her simple knife glowed gold, stabbed into the wall of the semitranslucent magical carriage, and promptly made the entire carriage explode in a puft of mana and air.
Everyone went tumbling across the ground, except Osthia, who caught Boyd before she could re-break her bones. Then they had to wait for a second magical carriage to appear and for a [Mage] to start screaming at them about fees and demand to know how they’d destroyed one of the carriages.
 
——
 
It turned out Wistram carriages were fragile, a fact Marrygold knew.
“Damn things explode or Wistram can blow ‘em up. Someone was trying a racket collectin’ em to make run how they wanted. Didn’t work. So you quitting the Sisters, Boyd?”
“I dunno.”
“You got that fancy stab. Could be a Gold-ranker, even.”
“I dun wanna be a Gold-ranker. I’m not pretty. I ain’t got the book learning for that. Or want t’die that bad.”
Boyd was still pale-faced as she avoided glancing at Osthia. And the Drake remembered she was from the local town. A kid in a nowhere place like this—well, not nowhere if you were a [Rancher], but for everyone else it seemed grim.
The exact opposite of Osthia Blackwing, a Drake born into a Walled Family in the City of Inventions. The other Sisters teased Boyd before one slung an arm around her.
“Well then, you’re a Dusk Prowler for sure. Just you wait until we get back, and we’ll get you that new belt. Just as soon as we finish this goose-chase to nowhere, huh?”
None of them believed they were going to find a relative of Bimthe. Marrygold said as much.
“Look, I knew Bimthe. She sometimes yapped about her old man, but never in the way that said she’d ever go back. How’d you even get his name?”
“I have some unique Skills.”
“Yeah, well, don’t expect much. Sisters don’t got families for a reason. Oh, some find some. You, uh, giving money to Alta’s family?”
“Alta Suarbloom? I was looking up her next of kin—”
“Nah, nah. She’s got two kids working the trades. One’s fourteen, and she’s some apprentice in Celum, real respectable. The other’s working in the brothel we run. She’s, what, twenty?”
“Can’t be. She was just a kid—”
“No, that was years ago. She’s twenty.”
Kids? Osthia checked her notes, and there was nothing there about that. But Marrygold was insistent.
“They’re hers. She raised ‘em. Ran around with them as a streetkid until Yeire picked her up as a Sister.”
“Oh, adopted. That’s why it’s not on the records. If they’re her next-of-kin…you’re not lying to me, are you?”
“Who, us? Not about Alta’s kids!”
The other Sisters were indignant. Osthia just glanced from face to face.
“I did hear the comments about splitting their pensions. This is a military matter. I’m a [Soldier], even if I’m not active. If it turns out you were misleading me about giving the pensions meant for the deceased to the wrong people, I will breathe acid over the lot of you.”
She held Marrygold’s gaze as the Sister shook her head.
“That ain’t it. Swear on Haple’s sagging tits.”
“Okay, then.”
Just in case, Osthia sent a [Message] to Xesci to ask Boss Yeire to confirm this. And she sat back in her chair after writing in the [Message] scroll only to see the Sisters eying her.
“What?”
“I dunno. We just don’t get pensions. Weird.”
“Your Sisters fell in the line of duty. It’s true they don’t have medals, and we cannot commend them as [Soldiers], but House Gemscale has similar plans for [Miners] or anyone who works for them. Drakes believe in monetary, tangible rewards for service. Living and the dead.”
Osthia grimaced as she checked her bandage. Marrygold nodded.
“Yeah, well, that’s why Alta was a damn fool and went fighting Golems.”
The Oldblood Drake’s head came up, and she saw them all nod. And there it was. The mystery.
“For what?”
“For the gold, a’course.”
The Sisters frowned as if this weren’t hard, and Osthia breathed in and out, holding her ribs.
“It was five gold coins that they were promised. Five gold coins, and that thing was a Hunter-Killer.”
“Yep. Wasn’t worth it for me, but the pay’s good enough I stuck around even if you didn’t catch me running at the undead. It were worth it for Boyd and poor Crooknose and the rest.”
“Five gold?”
Then, and only then, the grieving women’s eyes flashed, and Osthia saw Marrygold regard her. The Sister of Chell wiped at her nose.
“Guess you ain’t ever been poor before, huh, Captain?”
 
——
 
In the end, that was all it was. What would drive a woman to fight a Golem or risk their lives against the undead?
Five gold pieces. More than Boyd had ever seen in her entire life. More than a Sister made until they actually hit the Sister’s rank.
It wasn’t like Osthia was a fool. She knew plenty of [Soldiers] in Pallass’ army who’d joined up for the pay and their own pensions they’d hopefully claim when they were living. It was just…
Bleak.
She sat there on the ride to Ocre; she wanted to confirm Alta’s two kids were who the others said they were. As for Bimthe, the deceased Sister of Chell did have a father in the city.
A Master Genous. He wasn’t exactly an upstanding member of society. The first thing he did when Osthia asked if Bimthe was his daughter was demand to know if she was a [Debt Collector]. When she delivered the news, he went still.
“She was workin’ as a what? A damn criminal?”
Marrygold and the other Sisters of Chell had come to listen, and they bristled.
“As opposed to what? Your fascinatin’ job?”
Genous was a [Laborer], which was a generic class you got when you bounced around for work. His nose was weirdly bulbous, and when Osthia presented the gold, he snatched it.
“You serious?”
“Yessir. As you are her next of kin—did she have any will? Her mother—would Bimthe want—sir?”
He was glancing around at the rest of the workcrew, who’d paused to watch the strange meeting. Genous tried to fumble the gold coins into his moneypouch, but he wasn’t exactly slick. He dropped a few gold coins and panicked.
“This is mine! Where do I—they’ll jump me for it!”
“I can escort you to the Merchant’s Guild, sir—”
“I don’t got an account!”
“They’ll open one for you.”
Osthia was not enjoying herself. Or the man’s reaction, but she had done this before. Only a few times, but the man relaxed as they walked him down the street. Only then did he grin, staring at the gold coins.
Then look up.
“Bimthe. How’d she go? What—why was she working for some Wall Lord?”
Osthia explained, and the man’s face screwed up in confusion.
“A criminal working for…? Golems? That damn idiot. I told her to mind me, and she went and got herself killed.”
“I heard Bimthe say she’d rather make a livin’ on her back than have you coming home and stealing her pay.”
Marrygold put in with a silky purr. Genous jumped and edged away from her.
“I never did! She was staying in my home, eating me out of my rent long after she came of age to work.”
“I heard she was fourteen and you started takin’ her apprentice money.”
Another Sister put in, and the man began to sweat. Osthia was the one who interrupted.
“Marrygold, leave it.”
“We don’t leave grudges—”
“He’s her last-of-kin. Leave it. Please.”
The Sisters eyed each other, and Genous ran ahead to the Merchant’s Guild. He spun on his heel.
“No wonder she got herself killed, hanging out with you lowlifes. It’s your fault! And yours!”
He pointed a finger at the Sisters, who flashed knives at him, and Osthia. She just bowed her head. She looked down at her boots, and further still.
A pile of dead soldiers gazed up at her. Each one fallen. And Bimthe…the Sister of Chell lay among them. Osthia knew her, even if she had never known her. She met those vacant eyes and spoke.
“I’m deeply sorry for your loss, sir. Bimthe was incredibly brave. I’ve known [Soldiers] who couldn’t do what she did. She saved Wall Lord Ilvriss’ life.”
The man stood there a second, and then he gazed down at the money pouch in his hands. Gaped at Osthia, and then he did seem lost.
“She did? How?”
The Sisters of Chell turned to Captain Osthia, expecting the Drake woman to march off, gold delivered. Marrygold was spitting invectives under her breath. Even if Osthia didn’t recognize the look on Humans, even Boyd could tell that Genous was a drunk. His face was full of ruptured blood vessels that gave him that permanent flush, and he’d glanced at the pub and licked his lips. He was probably a higher-level [Drunk] than [Laborer].
He’d piss away a dead woman’s gold in the week. No doubt. If someone didn’t mug him for it. It was…something that the Drake woman was giving any gold away for a Sister. But there it ended.
Or so they assumed. Because Genous himself was half-turning for the Merchant’s Guild door, showing the [Guards] eying him his gold, when Captain Osthia put her clawed hands behind her back.
She stood at perfect parade rest, the Humans of Ocre passing by the street slowing, and spoke in a loud, carrying voice. Like the military woman she was.
“Sir! Warrior Bimthe was engaged in the bodyguard duty to Wall Lord Ilvriss when an attack was made on his life last Lundas at 7:36 PM! A Hunter-Killer Golem attempted to assassinate Wall Lord Ilvriss, armed with Tier 4 magic and killing weaponry. The Wall Lord escaped with his life due to the actions of his personal bodyguard, including Warrior Bimthe and her escort. I personally watched her pull him to safety; but for her, he would have been cut to ribbons. She then engaged the Hunter-Killer in hand-to-hand combat, whereupon Warrior Bimthe took fatal wounds. The Hunter-Killer Golem was later neutralized and destroyed. It has been my honor to serve with Warrior Bimthe and her comrades. Bravery of that kind is the difference between those who run into burning buildings and those who do not.”
Her voice was loud. Boyd stood there, blinking at the Drake. Bimthe? Boyd knew the woman, who had been swearing and stealing drinks from the Drakes until—
But that was what had happened, right? Marrygold stood there as Bimthe’s father blinked at Osthia. He stared at her and then turned. Staggered away and only recalled he had a moneybag of gold after a dozen steps down the street. Then he turned back to the Merchant’s Guild.
“I see. I…”
He walked through the doors, and Osthia Blackwing waited. Then she saluted, once, and strode away. When the Sisters of Chell followed her after that, it wasn’t because they had been paid to. They wanted to see.
 
——
 
Genous was hard because it had felt like he hadn’t cared about his daughter and that the gold was wasted on him. But you did not choose that.
Alta’s daughters were—harder.
Neither one was like her at all, apparently. One was a Stitch-girl, a [Prostitute], the other a regular Human with permanently-scuffed hair, an [Apprentice] cobbler.
They’d both known about Alta dying and greeted Osthia, stone-faced. When she offered them the gold, the older of the two took a look in the bag, poured half into her money pouch, and handed the other half to the apprentice.
“Right. Thanks for the gold. Beat it, Drake.”
She turned and would have walked off except for Marrygold. The Stitch-girl hesitated, and Marrygold hugged her.
“Hey, Kivia. No one messing you up? C’mere, girl. I’m sorry—”
“Sorry for what? Ain’t like you got her killed. This gold’s good, right? No tricks? No bloodstrings on it?”
Kivia was speaking hard street; the apprentice, whose name was Thirth, was just staring at the gold. They all knew it was a lot. Kivia might be worried about being jumped for all that gold like Genous, but the Sisters of Chell had rules.
You didn’t steal from workers or your own like that. They weren’t Brothers with all their fancy ideals, but they were still…Sisters. Marrygold shook her head.
“It’s clean. But dontcha want to ask a question?”
“What kind? We heard how it was. Some Wall Lord survived, and Alta got killed defendin’ him. Some ‘easy job’. Guess she set us up, though. She always said she would. Alta don’t lie after all. ‘Leastways about this.”
“Kivia.”
Thirth made a sobbing sound, and Kivia glared at her sister, but then averted her gaze from Osthia. Before Ocre, the Sisters would have had the same reaction, but Marrygold turned to Osthia.
“Maybe you—you should talk about how Alta died. She was pretty brave, weren’t she girls?”
“Brave. Hah! She probably got killed runnin’ too slow.”
Kivia wiped at her eyes, and Captain Osthia saluted. That perfect, stupid caricature of military perfection that they were told. But when she spoke, it was straight-faced, staring ahead, just like before.
“Sister Alta has been commended by House Gemscale of Salazsar for heroism unto death, Miss Kivia. She and her—squad—willingly engaged a Hunter-Killer Golem. They advanced in the face of overwhelming odds and magical firebreath to buy the Wall Lord time to escape. I was not in charge of their squad at the time, but I regret that my actions, and that of the Rubirel Guard, Salazsar’s elite soldiers, were not enough to stop the Hunter-Killer on their own.”
“She did what? That idiot—”
Kivia turned to Osthia, then to the Sisters. They nodded wordlessly. Captain Osthia’s voice was hoarse, yet soft, like falling gravel.
“It…has come to my attention that the Sisters of Chell were unprepared for the engagements they took. Their unpreparedness was my fault. Nevertheless, Sister Alta fought valiantly.”
“You’re lying. She weren’t brave. How much didja pay her to dress up and talk nice about her.”
The young Stitch-girl whirled back on the Sisters, but Captain Osthia shook her head.
“Miss Kivia. Salazsar’s commendation is an official one that can only be awarded to the dead. A record of Sister Alta’s deeds will be kept, and a medal has been sent for. The record exists in the annals of House Gemscale.”
“Shut up. Just—”
Kivia was blinking rapidly. She peered away, and Thirth was trembling. Osthia paused.
“I am sorry for your loss. She was a brave—”
“You got her killed! You and that stupid job, and for what? A Golem? She was a Sister, not some Gold-rank adventurer!”
The slap caught Osthia on the chin. Boyd caught Kivia before she could swing twice, but Thirth began to attack Osthia.
“Hey, hey! Don’t hit her! C’mon, kid. Listen, it were just the job. It—you know how it goes. But she was that brave, right?”
Marrygold grabbed the sobbing girl, and then they had to stop them from attacking Osthia. The Drake held still until the two were separated. And then—
Then they went back to the dig site.
 
——
 
Captain Osthia didn’t have any more confirmed relatives. Apparently, she could only confirm a fake name into a real one daily, and looking people up was hard.
The Sisters were shaken themselves. They didn’t really know what had gone on back there. Only that…the [Captain] had lied. Or not lied. But she’d gussied up the truth and made the dead Sisters into something they weren’t.
Heroes. As if them throwing themselves at a Golem had been better than it was.
—But it had been brave. No matter how much Boyd rolled it around in her head, it stuck.
Brave. Just like Crooknose and the others had been. Everyone knew it had been for the gold. But the two girls had been sobbing for Alta, and it was like she’d mattered more.
“More’n how she was. Alta was just some coward. Never saw a fight she wasn’t running from. She only joined the Sisters ‘cause what other work do you got? It was good sayin’ how she died, though. Made it feel right. Maybe she was brave.”
Marrygold broke the silence after a while. She turned to Captain Osthia; the Drake was staring out the window at the rushing landscape as they rode back to the Cowpat Plains.
“There’s really a registry with Alta’s name on it? An’ a medal? Really?”
Captain Osthia’s head turned at last. She looked…lost. Guilty. She’d been a hellish trainer for the last week or so. Now? She just muttered.
“No, there’s not.”
Every woman in the carriage sat up. Marrygold’s jaw dropped.
“But you said—!”
“I lied. Walled Cities keeps registers of fallen soldiers for several generations. But even they don’t maintain them indefinitely. Mostly, it’s for recruiting purposes. House Gemscale doesn’t award medals; it’s a company. It has a pension plan. That’s it. Even if Ilvriss did apply for a medal, no one would approve it for a Human who’s not part of Salazsar.”
Silence. Marrygold sat back hard, and Captain Osthia stared out the window again. At her bandages, her claws.
“I’ll have one made. And I will request something from Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Boyd’s head rose, and Captain Osthia turned back to them.
“I would like your assistance with delivering pensions to the rest of the deceased.”
“I…sure. I mean, yeah. We can do that.”
That was all Marrygold said. She glanced at the others. Boyd kept watching Osthia’s face, but the Drake didn’t elaborate on her promise. When people lied, they talked a lot and explained things, in Boyd’s experience. But the Drake just sat there.
Later, when they got out of the carriage, the Sisters milled about, gossiping. Half didn’t believe Marrygold’s account of what they’d seen, but they listened. No one made them train.
Boyd saw more Sisters had come to replace the dead ones. None looked ready to jump at the next monster coming out, and apparently the undead were in the mines something bad. But the odds…
The news of the second attack had become actual news, because a woman was there with funny things on her face.
Spectacles. Boyd had never seen someone with glasses before, but the woman, whose name was Zage, asked Boyd about if she’d actually been compensated and about delivering the pensions.
“I see. And did Captain Shieldscale order you to fight the undead?”
She pressed Boyd until the young woman got angry and shoved her back.
“No! We just heard there was an attack, and we reckoned we hadta do our jobs or we wouldn’t get paid. And there’s gold for saving Captain Asrira. See?”
She shook her money pouch, and Zage stepped back.
“Hm. In that case, I have no more questions. Thank you, Miss Boyd. Tell me. Would you like a different position in one of the gangs? Your new class and Skills might warrant it.”
Boyd hesitated. In another gang, in another city? She wavered, but then stared at the gold. A lot of gold pieces for nearly getting killed. Twenty.
Twenty whole gold pieces, more than she or her family had ever had.
“I’ll—I’ll think on it.”
“Very well. If you’d like to leave, tell the Night Stalker in charge. The offer does not expire.”
Then the fussy bean flicker was gone, and Marrygold came over to ask what that was about and say they should all go drinking, if Boyd was paying. The Sister of Chell realized that Zage had left behind a brand-new belt for her.
Dusk Prowler. She held it up and felt nothing. But when Captain Osthia appeared the next day, Boyd followed her.
Out of curiosity.
 
——
 
Osthia stood in front of Ilvriss’ desk, and he was concerned.
“Osthia, I know you take your job seriously, but throwing yourself into combat like that—”
“Someone had to, Ilvriss.”
She stood at parade rest before him, and he nodded.
“Of course! You might have saved dozens of lives there, Osthia! If you hadn’t been there, I shudder to think how badly it would have gotten. It’s just…you threw yourself at high-class undead. We need you.”
“I had my sword, sir. I could use more gear, but I had House Gemscale’s finest.”
He pulled a face.
“You had good gear, but we should have given you my gear or better—! I’ll try to find you something more. It’s just that I can’t exactly empty House Gemscale’s vaults. I am taking this seriously.”
“Yessir, so am I. I’d like to speak regarding my command. It was my fault they engaged the enemy without proper gear or training.”
“Your…the Sisters of Chell, of course. Incredibly brave. Xesci didn’t lie. They actually went hand-to-hand against those undead? With daggers?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. They did. To that end, I’d like to continue paying their pensions, if I can take the time and magical carriages. And I’d like a few other approvals. I have a list.”
She pushed one over his desk, and Wall Lord Ilvriss read it and did a double-take.
“You want a…a formal list in House Gemscale? I mean, I can arrange it; we have a list of [Miners] and—but for the Sisters of Chell?”
“The Sisters of Chell and all the people who have died in the line of duty, sir. They gave their lives in the name of Salazsar, House Gemscale, and our efforts, didn’t they?”
The purple-scaled Drake opened his mouth, then rested his claws on the table. He peered down at the paper and murmured.
“Yes. They did. Would it be appropriate to append those who died at the Winter Solstice? Under our command…”
“I would like to add all soldiers who died in the battles I participated in, yessir. Regardless of affiliation.”
“I—I could definitely see that, Captain. We have casualty reports, and each city maintains their records, but that’s not public access. Indeed, a memorial of a kind. Something for our libraries?”
Osthia thought about that. It didn’t seem right to write it up and just…shove it away in one library.
“Perhaps a copy could be made, sir? And that’s a start. But I’d also like to commission medals.”
“For the Sisters of Chell. Of course.”
He was watching her. With an expression she’d never seen before, at least directed her way. Fascination and—and a kind of weird insight. It felt like she could have asked for anything and he’d give it to her.
The Wall Lord could not imagine the spinning emotions in her stomach. See the pile of corpses. Feel the guilt pressing down on her. But he had been here before. He cleared his throat.
“As for your other requests…I think I can find room in the budget. I’ll spin off a few [Miners] and [Builders]—just let me know if you need more. It’ll be a good break from the digging for them anyways. Just don’t go near the, ah, septic zones we’re laying.”
The what? Some kind of project was he doing? Osthia was focused.
“Yessir.”
“Are you sure you don’t need more rest, Osthia?”
“Nossir. This is very restful. Thank you, Wall Lord. I’ll get back to work. May I assume everything’s approved?”
“Of course, of course. I’ll have someone draw it all up and organize it. Alrric, though he’s busy. Damn.”
She nodded; it was a money thing, and he was a money-[Lord].
“Don’t forget the palace made out of silver carried by Djinni, sir.”
“Of course, we’ll get that as soon as I can buy—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss hesitated and checked the list.
“Er—”
“A joke, sir.”
She walked out of his tent. The Wall Lord sat back in his seat. After a moment, he turned to Xesci.
“Do you think she’s—?”
“Traumatized? Oh, yep. Who here isn’t? But she’s functional. Focused. Guilty. I think let her do what she’s going to do.”
He opened his mouth, then rose.
“Right, well…who isn’t traumatized? Just for clarity?”
“Of the people you and I interact with? The inn? Maybe…some of the Calanferians?”
Ilvriss thought about that.
“Do you think I should find a [Thought Healer]?”
“Sure. Level 40 should do for a start, and they’ll definitely counterlevel.”
 
——
 
Captain Osthia Blackwing dug a hole. Not because she was good at it, but because she felt like it was important.
“We can do the rest, Captain Shieldscale. It’s not the hardest project. And we’ll throw our best Skills at it. Nice break from, uh, the damn undead. You should take a break.”
The [Foreman] was very respectful as he eyed her injuries. She just nodded at him and let them finish breaking ground. It wasn’t the most difficult project. They were laying a foundation, using quick concrete that Salazsar knew how to make. They had plenty of stone, after all.
When she turned, Boyd tried to duck down, but there wasn’t anywhere to hide. And the rest of the Sisters of Chell didn’t even bother.
“You, uh, up to something, Captain?”
“Yes. It will take some time to complete. In the meantime, I intend to continue delivering pensions. Wall Lord Ilvriss has paid for medals of honor to be awarded, and I will have a Courier deliver them if I can’t get them made in Esthelm or a city near Invrisil.”
“He what? Really?”
Osthia kept moving. She marched over to a tent where Wall Lord Zail’s promised equipment had arrived. Too late.
“This is armor and weaponry for you. I intend to have you all trained and ready for combat inside the week.”
Marrygold froze. She bent down and inspected some chainmail armor, whistling. There were serrated, wickedly curved knives and weaponry that any decent [Rogue] wouldn’t mind having. Steel wire nets. But—
“Combat? Against more undead? You, uh, serious?”
Captain Osthia nodded. She had been thinking. She had been…remembering.
Why had she even become a [Soldier]? Well, it was a family tradition. She’d wanted to go up the ladder. Become a [General]. Be a Drake who commanded that much fame, power, and respect. Defeat the Antinium.
No actual great reasons. She’d done it because her family did it. Because the alternative was some job she couldn’t envision doing. Getting married for the family.
Sometimes, you didn’t have a good reason to be a [Soldier]. Then you fought for your life, and when you asked yourself, shakily, why you were doing this, the reason was just because that you were here.
And your buddies were here, and you couldn’t let everyone else down.
Those were the reasons you stayed. But there was a deeper reason that Osthia believed in as well.
Someone had to kill monsters. Someone had to defend her home. She’d never say that with a straight face, but she had looked into a roaring Wyvern’s mouth. Fought the undead, and she believed it.
Someone had to fight monsters. She was decently good at it. Let it be her. And she wasn’t some heroine. She was, in fact, a bastard, because she believed the same thing about soldiers.
Someone had to fight the undead coming out of those mines. Someone had to be first into the fray, to slow them down if nothing else, and yes, it meant they’d likely die.
It seemed those someones were the Sisters of Chell. They had what was needed, what great soldiers were made of: the willingness to be first into that fray.
She was doing a terrible thing. But if she gave them the things they needed, armor, training, her respect, then she was giving them every chance she could. She would do that.
Yet here was the question: how did you motivate women to take on what might be suicide missions? It was insanity.
There were Antinium in Liscor who’d fight against insane odds because, well, they were Antinium and they had no futures. The same with [Assassins]; the Ranks knew only how to kill to win all the things they didn’t have.
But [Soldiers]? Captain Osthia had to ask herself how to motivate the Sisters of Chell. The answer was one she had not understood because of her rank, her own privilege. It was the answer that came from talking to them.
 
——
 
“Marrygold. Yeah, ‘smy nickname. Pretty good, I thought. Like Marigold—you got it, which I really like. Stylish. I reckon if I ever get to makin’ a Face, it’ll be a good name.”
Marrygold had talked about her name after inviting Osthia to a fire after their first visit to deliver pensions. She took a sip of the stolen wine, then stared into the fire.
“Nice nickname, right? Wonder how I came up with it?”
“Sure.”
The Sister drank again.
“It’s easy. I really thought I was doin’ it. I was a bit of a looker before I lost bits of me. I polished up real nice. [Local Beauty], would you believe? And I thought I’d marry up. Aimed for it, really. My ma, she thought the same. Thought if I landed the right fellow, we’d all be set. I thought it was a good trade. Raise a few kids to stop going hungry or washing clothing? Heh. Just turns out you should lock down whatever sap you’re trying to hook. Or they have a tumble with you and ride off. Lord Rithmond. Don’t bother looking him up; name’s fake. He was laughing with his buddies all the way out of our village. I know he was. A friend of mine heard him going.”
Then she glanced up, caught Osthia’s look, and laughed before pouring some of the wine onto the fire and handing it off.
“What? It was my damn fault. My ma hit me, hugged me, and told me we’d find someone and trick’ em about me being a virgin and all since the village knew. I ran off. Thought I’d run into the bastard and put one between his back, but that’s how I found the Sisters. It’s better than the other jobs you get. That’s how everyone else ended up here, right, kid?”
She kicked Boyd, and the young [Brave Knife] shyly looked away from Osthia.
“There ain’t nothing else to do. Just making money like that Miss Xesci does, but someone’s like enough to beat you up if you’re not careful, and until she came by, you’d give all you got to whomever was in charge for protection. No work for a Bronze-ranker, really. Even if you were crazy enough. And the Lischelles are real picky about who gets made a [Rancher]. You gotta ride like you’re half-Centaur to beat a boy for th’ job.”
“It’s good enough gold when you get made a full Sister. ‘Till then, it’s harder, but you don’t starve. Sometimes, you have to fight in a gang war, and that’s bad. But Sisters don’t stab each other in their sleep. So that’s us. We heard the Wall Lord was flush with coin and it pays well. But that’s it. When we get enough, we’ll split since this job seems like a good way to get dead and high-level. No offense.”
Captain Osthia had nodded.
“And then what?”
“Then…we’ll go back to our gangs. Spend some gold on something nice. Hit the town. Hopefully all get promoted. You get to Night Stalker and you can sort of sit back a bit. Gang Boss sounds tough, but you can live to maybe sixty if you’re a Night Stalker?”
“Nah. You see anyone with white hair in our job?”
Marrygold protested.
“I’m serious! They’re all up north, but there’s a buncha old women! They remember a time when Haple was just startin’ out. Meanest bunch of know-it-alls you ever met. Fast too. Saw one knife a rival ganger so fast he didn’t know he was dead until he stood up. That’s how I want to be.”
Sixty years old and then dead when you got too slow. Captain Osthia listened. They asked her what she wanted, of course. Why she’d joined the army.
“I just thought it was something I should do. And I never really found a reason to quit, or the opportunity. What do I want to do? Kill someone. Make sure they’re dead. Then I can die.”
The conversation had gone out after that. Boyd swallowed hard, and Marrygold and the other Sisters who were fascinated by the strange Drake exchanged looks. Marrygold held up a cup.
“You’d make a fine Sister. Somedays, that’s all it takes. I just keep turnin’ over because I know everyone else’d laugh at me if I died in my sleep.”
And Captain Osthia had smiled.
“I used to have friends like that in my army.”
“Then what happened? Why’d you quit?”
“Someone killed them all.”
That ended the conversation, of course. The Sisters trailed off, then began talking amongst themselves, and Osthia, who still needed a bit more healing, went to rest. Only after she’d gone did Marrygold lean over.
“One of the Night Stalkers was lookin’ into her. While we were givin’ out the pension things. I think Haple wanted it. Quick move—took her ring of anti-Appraisal off her finger, got it back on before she noticed.”
“And?”
They all leaned forwards, interested. Boyd turned to watch Osthia trailing away.
“She’s got a redline Skill and a strange class. Sounds like…she might be walking through a battlefield filled with bodies all the time. Or in her dreams, the beanflicker said. A guilty woman, instead of someone who don’t care. They said she was from Pallass, but which battle lost that many troops?”
No one knew, but the Sisters’ gazes followed Osthia as she went to dream. Marrygold spoke on after a moment.
“That’s not the crazy part. The crazy part is that, apparently, Haple or someone asked the Wall Lord if he wanted to pay for a Skill removal. There are ways of dealing with that in the gangs, sometimes. But she said no.”
“Maybe it cost too much?”
“For a Wall Lord of Salazsar? She’s mad as a Face or Named-ranker.”
They all murmured, speculating, telling stories. Boyd sat there, and the next morning, when she saw Captain Osthia brushing her teeth and looking bleary-eyed, but no more than anyone else, she and the other Sisters exchanged glances. And they grew even more curious about their strange leader.
 
——
 
How did you motivate the Sisters of Chell into doing what Osthia knew they could do? She did some reading. And then writing.
Not her usual reading. She didn’t notice she hadn’t dreamed of the pile of dead for a while. She was too busy going over reports. House Gemscale’s reports that an amused Alrric had copied over to her upon request. And other records; all public knowledge. He’d appended a little note.
‘If you’re going to be doing any serious hiring, please consult with me first.’
As far as Osthia was concerned, she didn’t have to do anything. It was already done, if that made sense. Wall Lord Ilvriss was rather surprised, but he agreed that if it worked…why not? It wasn’t like he hadn’t already spent a fortune here.
“Are you sure, though, Osthia? It’s a rather long-term arrangement.”
“Do you have anyone better for the job?”
She had asked him to his face before he signed the contracts. He’d hesitated.
“We have my anti-Antinium warriors. Some have even been shipped out here, and they’re sharp, capable—the Rubirel Guard are highly trained.”
“Mhm. Who pulled you out of that Golem’s reach?”
He stared at her, then lifted the quill.
“I’m, ah, just going to [Mass Sign] there. Let me know if you need more. As for the housing, it’s a good idea. A very good idea. If I may, I’ll use that with our own people. But obviously, maintain what you need.”
“Very good, sir.”
 
——
 
Captain Osthia took the contracts to the Sisters of Chell. They were actually training, or at least playing with the new weapons Zail had sent and teaching each other tricks. They were amenable to learning how to fight better, especially because they all knew they’d have to fight at some point or other.
But when she appeared, they went still, because Captain Osthia walked with the dead. She was on a one-way mission, and she said so.
“Sisters of Chell, it’s my intention to form a fast-response force out of volunteers. The undead attacks are continuing, and someone has to head them off. All applicants will receive equipment, training, but be expected to respond to emergencies without delay. We will be first into combat.”
“Against more Golems. Or giant undead.”
“Or more. Yes, Marrygold.”
“And you want volunteers?”
The Sisters relaxed when Osthia confirmed that, yes, this was all volunteers. One wiped at her brows theatrically. Boyd just watched Osthia. When the [Captain] turned to her and held something out, Boyd flinched.
“I can’t! I’m scared, I won’t do it, even if you ask!”
She shouted, moving away from the hand, but it wasn’t an open hand, but a piece of paper. Boyd hesitated, then colored as everyone laughed at her. Osthia passed out the contracts to everyone—and realized few of the Sisters of Chell could read.
“That’s something else I’ll add to the contract.”
“What, us signin’ up for more pay? Even if it’s a hundred gold per fight…well, maybe a hundred. But it ain’t worth dying.”
Marrygold snapped, but she had hesitated at her own words. However, Osthia shook her head.
“Even Wall Lord Ilvriss can’t offer a hundred gold per fight.”
“Right. And we’d leave after that. So why’d we ever sign up for this?”
Captain Osthia shuffled the contracts together and inhaled.
“Because I will arm you with the best gear I can. I will personally lead this squad, and you will counterlevel. You will all be paid proportionally to your deeds and levels. Generously, even. Believe me, not even some of Pallass’ best squads get this kind of pay.”
“Yeah? How many of them make it till the end of the year?”
One of the other Sisters called out, and Osthia met the women’s eyes.
“Exactly. I can’t offer you a commission; you’re not soldiers. I can promise a pension for any woman who dies in the line of your contract. And a medal.”
“That ain’t worth nothing to a shallow grave.”
Someone else commented. Again, Osthia nodded.
“It’s my hope I don’t have to pay a single pension. That’s for the fallen. Your benefits end with the final payment after your death—unless you serve for ten years. In which case, a permanent pension will be awarded to your family for a duration of two years, escalating with the time you served.”
“Ten years? Is she mad?”
Now, Marrygold was choking, but Osthia waved the papers at them.
“Yes. But that’s if you die. As I said, your benefit plans under House Gemscale apply more to living employees than the dead.”
“Employees?”
Boyd didn’t actually know the word. Osthia turned, and the [Captain] nodded at her. She slapped the pieces of parchment she was holding.
“These are employment contracts. Sign them, and you will work for House Gemscale, much like the rest of the [Miners], long-term [Guards], and [Soldiers] here.”
“You want us to work for that Drake? Why would we do that? We’re Sisters.”
Someone scoffed, and Osthia unrolled the contract.
“Basic contracts for workers in Walled Cities include room and board, or stipends for such. This is a longer-term contract, the kind they offer prospective employees after trial periods. I’ve amended this one. Ten years, not twenty or longer. After ten years, you would be eligible for increased pay or to retire with a permanent pension. I have also convinced Wall Lord Ilvriss to guarantee housing.”
“Wait, retire?”
“In the city of Liscor, yes. He has purchased a lot of real estate. Full employees will, on completion of their contracts, be awarded with a property. Just an apartment unit after ten years, with potential graduation to a house or larger areas depending on performance. You will also be given a basic education, if you lack one, and a [Healer]’s services. You may apply to have members of your family live in Gemscale or affiliated company housing for substantial discounts.”
Another thing Salazsar offered. The Sisters of Chell were rubbing their ears, confused.
“Retire. You can do that? That only happens if you’ve got a fat bag of gold or enough kids or apprentices to make it happen.”
“You can do it in Drake cities. You’re guaranteed a stipend—a monthly payment—for life. That’s why our [Soldiers] fight and stay in the army so long. We know that if we keep at it long enough, we get to retire and be paid.”
Not many veterans got to see those full bonuses. But it was the dream. The damn dream that kept you going, because even if you were in Rhir, you were there with your buddies, and if you were hurt, High Command wouldn’t toss you out to beg on the streets.
The Sisters of Chell didn’t know this system. Not only were they used to the underworld, but they were from the north, where that kind of luxury was for the nobility or people far richer than them.
They clustered around one contract, making one of their own read it out for them. None other than Zage. Somehow, the secretary-woman had popped back up, if she’d ever left. She stopped reading and met Osthia’s eyes.
“So that’s what you were up to. The Sisters of Chell have obligations to their gangs. They are not for…sale.”
“I’m not buying them.”
“What’s this, then?”
Zage’s eyes narrowed. Osthia gave her the bleak smile of a [Recruiter] as she saw the Sisters turning from her to the representative of Haple.
“A competing job offer. The Sisters of Chell have countless members. They join, die, and it’s probably still safer than what Wall Lord Ilvriss is asking for. But he pays better. He will gear any woman who volunteers in the best armor and weaponry that he can afford. After all, it’s company property.”
The spectacled woman’s eyes narrowed dangerously. She turned and pitched her voice louder.
“Haple will want to consider this. No one here should take the [Captain] up on her offer.”
“But it’s legit, right? No flash, no bloodthread?”
Marrygold pressed Zage, and the woman’s mouth compressed.
“It appears to be. But given how many Sisters just died—Haple will not be happy to lose more members.”
“Would they accept it if Wall Lord Ilvriss paid a hiring bonus to them?”
Osthia had a rather jaundiced view of how much the mysterious Haple cared about any one Sister of Chell like Boyd, who hadn’t demonstrated their value yet. Zage’s silence told Osthia her answer. But the Sisters of Chell didn’t rush to sign up.
They had all seen the two incidents that had left only one survivor. Osthia let them have a contract and time to mull it over. She’d made her pitch.
Would she have chosen that offer? She didn’t know. But she wasn’t Boyd or Marrygold. Five gold pieces.
“At least this pays better than five gold pieces, once.”
Osthia waited until she was in her tents to say that and curl up in her bed. A terrible thing. She didn’t want to know if any living women would sign up to be dead ones.
She just lay there until someone came to tell her that the only other thing she could do was be ready. Or at least, ready enough.
Osthia had little to give the living. And the dead?
Only this.
 
——
 
It was just a building in the middle of the Cowpat Plains. It wasn’t like anyone owned the land. Osthia had requested it be made as sturdy as could be. Something that wouldn’t fall over when an earthquake or tornado hit.
It wouldn’t last millennia. But there was nowhere else for it. She owned nothing.
She was not rich enough for anything more. So here she sat.
It wasn’t even an original idea. She’d gotten the idea, actually, from Erin Solstice. It always went back to her. But it hadn’t been Erin…but someone else who had been connected to her.
A Dullahan [General]’s place. A [Garden of Sanctuary] in the freezing cold. Past the vast Snow Golems that had grown up in the timeless isolation, in his sanctum, he had made something. A place to remember the men and women he had known in life.
A sepulchre, a memorial filled with heads. How Dullahans mourned the dead. Captain Osthia was no gifted [Sculptor]. But anyone could pick up a brush and some ink. She could not capture the nuances of a form; even the shape of heads looked wonky and off, for she was no [Artist].
But there was one thing she could see if she just closed her eyes. So the Drake captured it in detail, because if she made a single error, she would just toss it all away and start again.
Faces.
She gazed down, and the battlefield of the dead stared up at her. The Drake drew and captured a single expression as she had known him. 
Thrissiam Blackwing. She worked…it must have been three hundred tries before she stopped throwing away pieces of paper. Then only because she was out of paper. So she just drew on a piece of white stone, washing it again and again until it was discolored. Prevailing on the [Miners] who asked if she was alright, if she needed help, until she caught an eye just right.
Then the face seemed to fall into place.
Or maybe it was her levels.
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 22!]
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 23!]
[Skill – Advanced Artistry (Painting) Obtained!]
 
The night after her first face, Osthia heard it speak, and then she would sit there when she wasn’t at work. Drawing on the pieces of stone that began to litter the…
Memorial.
Below the faces, she wrote an epitaph. Briefly, their names and ranks and levels if nothing else. A detail, a quote about them she found fitting.
It was unfitting, incapable of capturing their lives, but it was all she could do. And she was the only one who could do it.
No one else had been there. Not for Pallass’ 3rd Army. Nor for the Sisters. That was what Osthia did when she wasn’t finding the relatives of the Sisters of Chell and delivering pensions.
It was just a week. Wall Lord Ilvriss checked on her several times, asking if she was well. If she needed…but he understood.
“Something for them. I wish I had the same for Periss.”
She just handed him a brush. And when she found a face peering at her from the pieces of stone that were becoming a second wall to the memorial, she didn’t argue. Just kept adding them. Until she realized she’d have to hang them up. Make more walls for them all.
This place will never contain even Thrissiam’s army. It’s okay. I’ll keep working at it. She could buy a second wing if she saved gold.
What surprised Osthia was when one day, one of the Rubirel Guard approached and asked if she would allow the woman to add her own father to the wall.
Of course.
People began to visit the memorial. Some found it highly uncanny. They left quickly. Others would walk from face to face, then turn to Osthia and ask about one or another. She would talk about them.
Lie.
She’d lie about them, as if she knew Witheart. Or had even known her uncle that well. But she lied, because that too…was what she was.
A terrible liar. But she didn’t feel guilty.
 
——
 
For some reason, the Sisters of Chell began hanging around Osthia more and more. Even when they weren’t working. Meal times especially. No one had taken her offer yet, but they’d march along to demand food and argue with the [Cooks] over getting better portions, and Osthia would have to eat with them.
“You got to eat more than that, Captain. Puts skin on your bones. Or scales. Fuck, I dunno, but you’re not eating enough.”
“Oldbloods who fly tend to be lightweight if possible. Leave me alone.”
Osthia grumbled and kicked at Marrygold, but missed. The Sisters were annoyingly good at dodging. Some new Humans who didn’t know the score walked by and whistled at the all-female group. Marrygold turned her head to give one of the men a sinister look, and Osthia dipped some of her lunch in her water cup. Then she flicked a piece of bread at her head, hard and fast.
It was a [Soldier]’s move, but Marrygold ducked the piece of food and came up grinning. Osthia blinked at her.
“How’d you do that?”
It wasn’t the first time she’d seen Sisters—even low-level ones—react or dodge enemies in combat. Marrygold shrugged as the others chuckled.
“Chell’s specialty. If you don’t got fancy armor and you’re gonna fight other gangs, you’d better be fast. You just watch out of the corner of your eyes. And there’s always one spotter in a gang. Boyd’s doing it now.”
She directed Osthia’s attention at Boyd, who’d been quiet, glancing around. Barely touching her meal. She was listening, Osthia realized, on sentry duty.
“That’s how you all react fastest.”
“Sure. Some of us get Skills like peri—peripher—something vision. Doesn’t help except with ambushes, and even then, it’s not perfect.”
“Still, it’s a useful trick. You beat Salazsar’s [Soldiers] for reaction time.”
“Yeah, well, so what? They’ve got army and numbers, and a ‘sneak attack’ is probably a bunch of bastards riding down on them at night or something. Easy to spot a thousand people. Us? A single [Rogue] gets behind you and your squad’s dead.”
Another Sister commented, and they all laughed. Osthia raised her brows.
“So how do you train?”
She regretted her question the moment she saw the others smile. Someone hissed.
“Like this—”
They went for a jab to Osthia’s side with a sheathed dagger. Osthia blocked that to their mild approval. But she failed to block the six other times they snuck up behind her and goosed her, stomped on her tail, or stabbed her with a sheathed dagger.
Hard.
The Sisters of Chell, it transpired, had turned hazing into training. Boyd got the same treatment as Osthia—though the Sisters all seemed to very much enjoy targeting Osthia—and the Drake [Captain] began to regret asking for training.
Though it certainly put eyes on the back of your head! After a few days, she grew used to noticing odd shifting movements around her and would stare at a Sister about to creep up or thwack one coming up behind with her tail. After that, it wasn’t hard to pick up on when the [Ranchers] were coming for brawls, either. If five people began staring at something, it was obvious.
If you were always paying attention. Between those moments of training and working at the memorial, Captain Osthia would go out and deliver pensions. She did little else.
 
——
 
“Sister Chrell engaged an Undead Dornstone during a breach of Dig Site C. It is my belief that her actions, along with the rest of her squad, saved countless lives in the evacuation. I sincerely regret her passing.”
Boyd and the Sisters of Chell listened to Captain Osthia lie. She did it well, in a way they could admire.
She lied with the truth. Her truth, it seemed. Because what she said was right. It was just…it put a shine on ordinary women. Made chance or running into a monster and getting killed into something heroic.
Because it was when you saw it through Osthia’s eyes. It was real to the people she told it to, like the polish on the simple brass badges, painted until they looked like something far more valuable than the labor and materials.
It was that which made her so dangerous to the Sisters. She took them, members of a gang, lowlives and criminals, and made them into brave and even heroic people as they died.
Someone their families could be proud of. And yes, it was a bastard’s move, a [Conman]’s shell game. So what?
Better to be remembered like that. Better to be the tears in someone’s eyes who’d sworn they didn’t care if you ended up with your throat cut, or a muffled sob and a treasured memory that got to erase the things you’d been.
A better memory than who you were. They were selfish women to the last, the Sisters of Chell.
They wanted it.
Captain Osthia herself seemed like a dead woman the more Boyd watched her. She moved fast for a corpse, but so did undead. When she sat in that memorial, drawing a face, it felt like something was leaving her. Going onto that piece of stone that would pierce you to your core.
A week had passed since the first undead breach. Just a week, but she had added over a hundred faces already to the memorial, and she was actually standing on a ladder, working on something that was going to hang from the top of the vast room and walls of faces in progress.
This place…made Boyd walk slowly, and she handed Osthia her correspondence and something else. The [Captain] paid no notice until she was done.
“There. Does it look crooked? I can redo it if it is.”
“It’s straight t’ me, Captain. What’ve you got?”
Boyd didn’t know how to read, but she wanted to. Reading made you able to get an account at the Merchant’s Guild and the like. Reading meant no one could trick you and tell you what something said.
She wanted it. Captain Osthia just read correspondence, then snorted.
“Word spreads fast. This is from Salazsar. They want me to add people to this place. I don’t know what they think this is. Salazsar has to have memorials. But they fill up. I…”
Her claws were flexing, and she grimaced.
“I don’t have time for—I’ll see what they want. Are the Sisters training?”
“Yeah. Um, they’re all ready, boss. I mean, Captain.”
Osthia nodded and shuffled the papers, then gazed down at the contract. Boyd mumbled.
“I dunno how to write. So I put my thumb there and a bit of blood. That works, right?”
“Yes. Yes, it does. You’re sure, now?”
Osthia glanced up, and Boyd nodded. All the [Captain] said was—
“I’ll need your real name for my files.”
“It’s, uh, actually Boyd, Captain. None of the Sisters believed me, but it is. Boyd Sunver. My da was really hoping for a boy. Guess that’s how I started letting him down. Never stopped.”
She hung her head until Osthia found her shoulder.
“Got any family, Boyd? Ones you want to write in a will? You need one.”
“Maybe my little brother. I’d like t’send him some gold, but I don’t know how to get it to him without my da taking it. And he’s too young to run away.”
Boyd muttered. Osthia nodded.
“We’ll figure it out.”
“Really?”
“You’re in my squad now. And we’re Sisters, Boyd. We don’t let each other down.”
“All two of us, eh?”
Boyd was terrified. She hoped the undead never broke out, but she knew they would. Level. Level, and then she’d live, and if she did, she’d have a nice house someday. Someday…but she’d take a gang, the kind she could run with forever without regrets, first.
That made Captain Osthia stop and then smile. She tucked the contract into her bag of holding.
“Two? It’s eight now.”
“Wh—I’m not first?”
The [Captain] flew down off the ladder, chuckling, then felt at her ribs.
“Mending well. Barely hurts when I flap my wings. Come on, Boyd. We’ve got to get you outfitted for armor. Trouble might come any day now.”
“Sure, Captain. We’re a squad, right?”
“That’s right, so I’m going to insist on some discipline. But I understand you’re all Sisters. Informality will work. I’m not really a [Soldier] anymore. Being a bit unorthodox will be good for us.”
Captain Osthia still walked like a stick, but Boyd strolled after her.
“Reckon you’ve got a problem with your dreams.”
“I’m one step closer with you all, Boyd. And we’re going to see blood and combat. How’s that a problem?”
“Well, ‘cause you got a squad now, and Sisters. Can’t go dying on us.”
Boyd grinned triumphantly. Captain Osthia slowed and peered back at her. Boyd waited for a cuff, a kick, or Osthia to tell her to get lost. But the Drake just blinked at her, then smiled. Guiltily.
“I guess I do. I’m sorry, Boyd.”
“It’s better prospects than what I got, Captain.”
“Yeah. A pity I couldn’t offer you anything else. But someone’s got to do it.”
They walked out of the memorial. Above the faces of the dead—Boyd looked back once at the words that Osthia had written up there. The only words beyond the ones that describe the dead. It was a simple phrase.
A question.
 
Does it not matter?
 
——
 
That evening, Captain Osthia and the Sisters threw a party for the dead women. By which they meant Boyd, Marrygold, and the others who had signed up for Osthia’s squad. The party involved older Sisters who walked in, grabbed food, talked to Osthia and eyed her—then went to try and talk the younger Sisters out of it.
It seemed not to work; Osthia received a dozen signatures from the event alone. She…was conflicted.
“Pay’s good, and we can still back out and be regular Sisters after. Not like Haple cares so long as we level. Shut up about it already. You Night Stalkers forget what it’s like, not bein’ high-level and rich.”
Marrygold snapped at an older Sister. In response, the woman threw a jab at her side, and it was blocked—Osthia’s hand-to-hand training was paying off.
When the older Sisters realized there was no changing minds, they gave up and just watched the squad drinking and celebrating.
“Captain, if you’re leading us, you have to try this. C’mon, we got some special.”
One offered Osthia a Dreamleaf joint. She almost knocked it down.
“That’s contraband in Salazsar.”
“Well, we ain’t in Salazsar. And if you’re gonna drum us out for using that, I reckon you’re back to a squad of zero. We’re not polishing up that nice and bright. We’re Sisters.”
“More like Asrisa’s Bitches. Throwin’ over the Sisters for a Walled City.”
One of the older Sisters said that, and the group around Osthia produced throwing daggers. The air grew tense, and Osthia snatched the joint.
“If it cuts the smell and gets you lot to stop fighting—give it here.”
She lit it up and smoked awkwardly as they all turned to her, then began cheering, old and young sisters, like it was the greatest thing in the world. Getting a Drake officer to break regulations probably was an achievement to a gang like that. Osthia felt herself relax and feel better, then harrumphed.
Ancestors damnit. She’d refused any from the [Thought Healers] that Ilvriss had found—it would have provoked too much trouble in the Walled Cities, even with documentation. But she kept smoking it as she stood there, and the party relaxed.
“You know, you look better than you did when we first met. Less uptight. It reminds me of myself—but you’d already lost your command. Finding one again…that makes me jealous.”
She didn’t freeze or spin around in horror, because she’d already known Major Shellc was there when Boyd’s face had turned waxy. Osthia just sighed. He was good if the Sisters hadn’t tagged him right off.
“Major, the Gemscale company and Ilvriss might object, but we’re not in a military outfit. This is just—”
“Oh, stop. You think we didn’t have that in the ranks in Rhir? I know how Dreamleaf works. I just came by to congratulate you, Captain. Learned anything new about your command? Yourself? I’ll be putting your squad into action soon. I hope they’re ready.”
Osthia’s stomach fell as Shellc filled his plate with some food, and they stood apart. She took a breath.
“Ready? No. But no one’s ever ready. We’ve got gear, training—have us on quick-response wherever you think is needed. Would you like a formal report, sir?”
“Who has time for that kind of paperwork? Let me have it.”
She nodded.
“The Sisters might be unconventional and used to skirmishing action, but it means they’re the fastest-response group you can ask for, aside from being experts in anti-infiltration and close-quarters combat. They’ll be there…if there’s a reason they respect. That’s all.”
“Sort of a short list.”
“I’m sure I’ll find more qualities, Major Shellc. That’s just my initial impression. I’m not trying to sell them as a replacement to our standing forces. Just one squad.”
Major Shellc smiled. He held out a claw, and she shook it as more Dreamleaf smoke wafted upwards.
“Good enough for me, Captain. You’d be welcome on Rhir with that kind of mentality. If you ever want to fight the good fight up there, let me know.”
She studied him up and down. Captain Osthia, whose own conditions and Skills would have made her unsuitable for promotion in Pallass’ army…she glanced at her ragtag squad, then at Shellc, one-eyed, standing on his prosthetic leg, a consummate commander. She wondered if he had his own battlefield he saw when he slept, even if it wasn’t a Skill.
“The same to you, Major Shellc.”
“Hm? I don’t follow, Captain Shieldscale.”
The [Captain] saluted.
“I hope you find another command, instead of just a place to go back to and die. Begging your pardon for speaking out of turn, sir. It’s not fun, but there’s nothing else for it.”
For a moment, the [Major]’s face went blank, and she feared he’d grow angry. Then Shellc just closed his one good eye and nodded.
“I’d hate that. There’s only one unit I want to serve with. There’s nothing to do but go back in time, or join them. This is just a holding action until I find my way back.”
He turned his head, and his teeth flashed in the fading light. Then he regarded Osthia.
“You scare me, Captain. Was it…hard?”
“Yes, sir. The hardest part is doing it twice.”
“I see.”
They stood there, in silence. Then Major Shellc excused himself, and Captain Osthia kept puffing on her joint. Boyd wandered by with Osthia’s new squad after a second.
“Was he giving you shit, Captain? You don’t gotta keep smoking that.”
“No, Boyd. Just two [Soldiers] talking. Give me another one of these Dreamleaf things. I have acid in my blood; it makes it harder to get drunk or anything else sometimes. Now you’re a member of my squad, there’ll be rules and regulations. Only two people on Dreamleaf at any time. One spotter—and we’ll figure the rest out later.”
They stirred, then began chuckling and heckling her, and she smiled. Just once.
 
——
 
That night, Captain Osthia laid down and waited to see the dead. But she didn’t. There was no familiar scent of rotting bodies, no blood hanging in the air.
The pile of corpses was gone. Instead…Osthia got up and found herself walking through a camp before the eve of a battle. Soldiers were milling around, some leaning against tent walls. Some idiot was urinating, and a [Sergeant] was sneaking up to bellow at him—Osthia saw the familiar yellow armor on his breastplate.
Then she saw a face she knew, felt a buffet on her armor, and one of her Oldblood Fliers jogged past. Osthia turned her head and knew where she was.
General Thrissiam and General Garusa were sneaking out of her tents, as obvious as the sun. Captain Osthia heard her wing shouting at her, and there were voices asking if the [Scouts] thought they’d cornered the Goblin Lord, someone asking for a loan of a whetstone…
She blinked and raised her claws. Turned from face to face. She was waiting for the dream to turn to bloodshed. Or death. Or for those faces to become reproachful, to blame her for being—
The [Sergeant] paused, mid-bawl at the cringing [Soldier], and looked at her. He touched the brim of his helmet. Thrissiam and Garusa turned and waved. Osthia spun on her heel, and the [Soldiers] halted in their tasks.
For just one moment, they turned and regarded her. Some smiling. Others nodding. Saluting her. She wanted them to shout. To rage or blame her. They just waved her onwards. Some slapped her back, or shoved her, like the Sisters did to each other. But grinning, teasing.
Pushing her forwards, not dragging her down.
She was crying. Reaching out for them. Murmuring names, and for a second, she clasped hands with a Gnoll she knew. Remembered what Thrissiam’s smile should look like.
Then, Osthia heard the voice speaking softly in her ears.
 
[Covert Wing Captain Level 35!]
[Chronicler of the Dead Level 25!]
[Class Change: Covert Wing Captain → Sister of the Unforgotten Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Chronicler of the Dead Removed.]
[Sister of the Unforgotten Level 30!]
[Skill – Squad: First to Greet Death Obtained!]
[Skill – Squad: Lesser Acidbreath Obtained!]
[Skill – That One Dies Obtained!]
[Skill – Squad: Magnified Training Obtained!]
[Skill – For the Fallen, Survive Obtained!]
 
[Condition – Battlefield of the Silent Changed.]
[Skill – The Memorial of Passing Faces Created.]
 
Then she slept. The weary daughter of Pallass, a tired Drake. The first of her city for over five millennia to create a Skill that would endure with the world’s turning forever.
A Legacy Skill.
Captain Osthia Blackwing.

10.68 S (2026-06-21)

“You never really know someone in our line of work, Selys.”
“Yeah, Grandma? Is this more sage wisdom?”
“Shut it. What I mean is—these cookies are terrible, what happened to the ones from the inn?”
“I bought you cookies, Grandma!”
“I like the ones from the inn.”
“You can’t even tell they’re different! These are fancier, anyways. Frosted and decorated. Erin cheaps out on her recipe.”
“That’s why I can tell. This is all frosting. I want the ones with oatmeal and raisins.”
“Grandma, don’t shred them! I swear—this is how we get rats. In our new Guild? Someone hand me a broom.”
“Nice to see you doing some work. Here I thought you were going to hire a [Cleaner].”
“Just because I think we should have some services doesn’t mean I don’t know how to sweep, Grandma.”
“Missed a spot. There and there. You never really know people, Selys. Not in our line of work.”
“…Is this going somewhere? Is this more sage wisdom about how I need to get out, give away my money, and get back to work?”
“I’m talking about adventuring. Don’t make this all about you, Selys. Yes, as a [Receptionist] or Guildmistress. We never know adventurers. We send them out on assignments we think are safe, and they wind up in a coffin, and that’s on us. We think a Silver-rank team can handle it, and then they’re names on the memorial wall. You recommend a Gold-ranker, and they butcher their teammates over a few minor artifacts.”
“The Tirez Sabres weren’t your fault, Grandma. They forged their papers, bought off that Guildmaster. They had no business in the dungeon.”
A long silence, then. And Tekshia Shivertail gazed straight through Selys. The [Receptionist] bit her lip. She had helped make funeral wreaths for the team. Tekshia had gone to tell their families. Apologize. She shouldn’t have. It only made them angrier.
The entire Guild had been silent for the last few days. Not empty; adventurers showed up, left. But silent. At last, Tekshia went back to rocking in her chair and pretended the moment had never happened.
“I’m not talking about them. I’m talking about adventuring, Selys.”
“Okay…we do our best. What else can we do, even if we can’t know anyone?”
Tekshia Shivertail sighed then, that longsuffering sigh of exasperation, as she leaned on her spear, and Selys waited for a thwack against her legs or a sharp comment. But the Guildmistress, the former Gold-rank adventurer, the [Spearmaster], just shook her head.
“We do not know each other, Selys. We make mistakes and do our job; that’s basic. If we couldn’t do that, we wouldn’t be fit to even sweep the streets. But we are part of the adventure. Knowing that we don’t understand the people we’re sending to level or die—that’s the point. Until their tails are against the wall, we don’t know if they’re Bronze-rankers wearing Mithril or Named-rankers. As long as I’ve done this job, I still miss them. That [Necromancer]…I thought he was nothing more than a coward. Look at him now.”
“He’s not all that. Pisces just got lucky. He had the Erin-effect. He’s…”
“Selys Shivertail, he fought his way through a death zone. Made it out of Chandrar and Roshal’s chains with barely more than a few scars.”
“What’s gotten into you today, Grandma? Are those cookies laced with Dreamleaf or something? Hold on, let me check. I’m positive I didn’t mix up my, er, other supplies—”
Thwack.
“Ow!”
“If you had Dreamleaf cookies, you should have given those to me! Brat. You don’t wear jealousy well, Selys. Shivertails don’t, by and large. Your uncle was just as bad.”
“Uncle Zel? I’m not jealous. We never were a thing!”
“Nope. You chose poorly. Rabbit over nose. Don’t throw that at me. I don’t like him. But I can see a fellow adventurer. You don’t know him. I don’t know him. It seems to me, though, that only one of us gets that this is a problem.”
“Okay, Grandma. I’m indulging in your mood. Let me follow your logic. If we can’t know the character of our adventurers, what are we supposed to do? It’s an impossible conundrum.”
“You can’t know them. If we were on the same team, adventured together a month, a year, we’d know each other. But that’s not how it works. That’s why the Guild wants former adventurers who get the job. You should have stuck to Bronze-rank adventuring for more than a month.”
“It wasn’t for me. Look, Grandma, if you really want me to take a few requests, I could buy some gear, get some time in. Is that how I get the vice-Guildmistress role? Because I’ll do it. But if you’re just going to be cryptic and—”
“Selys. The way you do it is—you change the Guild. Sometimes, even if it’s unreasonable, even if they’re pains in your tail, you bend over backwards to cater for one team. And they’ll never thank you. Other times, you have to war with them. Slap them around. Not back down. All the old guard from the north need more of that. No one’s talked back to Deniusth for an age. Remember when he tore in here wanting me to arrest Erin for letting those Silver-rankers go and blacklist her? I had to stab him before he even stopped shouting.”
“You stabbed—”
“He was a brave [Violinist]. Merdon was an amazing [Singer]. The Loud Lad threw himself in front of monsters for his team. Crowdcaller Merdon’s just some washed up has-been without a team who needs him. That’s what I mean. My Guild, the one I knew all my life, theirs…they just let us come up from Bronze-rank to Gold, or beyond, and supported us.”
“…But they should have done what? They didn’t know who you’d be.”
“No. But they were there every adventure. I remember the [Receptionist] who used to sit here. A timid Drake who’d stutter every third word. But he made sure to check we were geared up each and every time. Three times over decades that saved my life—when I forgot to pack enough healing potions, the right countermeasures. An extra bundle of rope. That’s the job, Selys. You bring them in, give them lip, and send them out. You’re almost a good [Receptionist]. That’s all. If you want to ever approach my class…you look at the ones you’ve got. Adventurers. Permanent Bronzers, the Named-ranker who comes in just once, and you don’t know ‘em. But you make something of them. You believe in them.”
“I haven’t seen you doing much of that.”
“No. No, I haven’t. The most I ever did was pay off a few debts for the original Horns. Clear a damn [Necromancer] for adventurer. Enlist a Goblin and Antinium as Bronze-rankers. Two Antinium, actually. Heh. Maybe those will be my finest accomplishments. What a damn thought. This Guild never had many prospects, Selys. We were a comfortable city with nothing going on. Now we need a good [Guildmistress], one with an eye for the future.”
“You mean…?”
“I mean me, obviously. Weren’t you paying attention? I’m going to write up some <Quests>. You figure out what you’re doing with your life.”
Then she turned and hobbled off. Selys bent over the cookie crumbs on the floor, then peeked up.
“Grandma. Grandma, wait. One more question. Grandma?”
She glanced around the empty Guild, closing for the night, and there was no one there. Then she knew she was dreaming, but she put down her broom and went running. Trying to catch a glimpse of those familiar purple scales around every corner.
 
——
 
Until she woke up, tears in her eyes. Selys Shivertail was in a new bed. A new town. She didn’t even know where she was. But she sat up, wiping at her eyes, and heard two rats chirping at her anxiously.
Every day was like this. Selys Shivertail didn’t know if she cherished those dreams of her grandmother. They were frequent, even if the image of the old, cantankerous Drake had faded in sharpness.
How long until she was nothing but a faded image? Selys didn’t want to think it could happen, but she didn’t remember her parents’ faces anymore. She’d been a child, of course, but not even the pictures Tekshia had or all her stories kept them sharp. Zel? Selys could still remember his weary, grim expression, his huge shoulders, and the claws that had cut apart every foe of Izril.
…But he wasn’t present. He wasn’t a ghost she carried with her. She hoped Tekshia remained longer. But then Selys slid herself up in the pre-dawn light, still on an Adventurer’s Guild routine. She splashed water from a basin into her face.
Alone but for Rhata and Haldagaz. She picked her rats up as she left another room in another inn behind without a second glance. And added another empty day to the list of things Erin Solstice owed her.
An uncle, a grandmother, a job and city—Selys Shivertail never looked back, not towards Liscor far to the south nor to anyone else. Erin wasn’t looking back. Why should Selys?
The door slammed shut, and the Drake walked forwards, searching for a place she fit, for what she was owed. Something to balance the debts.
After ten minutes, she slammed back into her room. She’d forgotten her bag of holding.
 
——
 
It was Selys’ habit, as she wandered from city to city in the north, to leave her inn at dawn, or a bit later if she had a hangover. Then she paid a visit to a few places.
An [Alchemist]’s shop to stock up on Hangover Tonics, any alchemical oddities she liked—each [Alchemist] had a specialty she usually bought—and scale-treatments or self-defense items since she was a young Drake on the road alone. Healing Potions too; if they were under a hundred gold and they looked like they weren’t knockoffs, she bought them.
Then she’d visit the trendiest cafe and buy her way into a seat to try their best item. She’d watch the news on a miniature television-mirror and feed her rats. Then apply at the local Adventurer’s Guild for their highest open position.
The last guaranteed stop in Selys’ day was the Mage’s Guild. She had a Scroll of [Messages], of course, but it was keyed to no one but her Merchant’s Guild representative and several other people who sold her things. Selys would line up at the counter, and every day, she’d ask the same question.
“Any messages for me? Any letters? Personal correspondence only, nothing else.”
She’d make the [Receptionist]-[Mage] on duty sort her inbox, impatiently, and ask if anything was from Liscor. Any friends. She’d try someone new each day.
Drassi. Fellow [Receptionists] from the Adventurer’s Guild, like Maviss. Or the Horns of Hammerad. Or—The Wandering Inn.
The green-scaled Drake with her trendy handbag, fashionable clothing, enchanted rings, and expensive scale-treatments that made her almost shine in the morning light would stand there, a dissatisfied expression creasing the recently-applied lipstick. She’d turn her head, neck spines flexing as her tail thumped the ground, dangling spine-earrings catching the light as gemstones flashed. And she’d grudgingly ask—
“Mrsha? Lyonette du Marquin? Ishkr?”
It was different each day, but Selys never brought up one name. When she got a final negative, she’d turn on her heel and walk away from the counter without another word as Humans glanced at her, bemused, a Drake alone. Then she would march up to another counter at the Mage’s Guild, look at a map, and rent a Wistram Carriage and go onwards. She’d do some reading in the carriage as two rats emerged and read over her shoulder—well, one read, the other did pressups.
Her grandmother said you never really knew someone. Perhaps that was true. She had never really known Selys, just had all these unreasonable expectations of her granddaughter, who could never be her. And Selys supposed, she had never known Tekshia Shivertail the adventurer. Just Guildmistress Tekshia.
On she rode, reading. She had her position in the Adventurer’s Guild, so what she read were accounts. Entries by the Guildmasters or [Receptionists] in logs, which she’d paid to be looked up and sent to her.
Messy scrawls, shorthand notes, the occasional gem when someone had a flair for descriptions, or small first-hand recountings of what had gone down. Two entries in Tales of Adventure and Woe. Even a short story by Krsysl Wordsmith. That last one had shocked Selys; it was dated before his famous Antinium Wars books and long out of print. It had not sold hugely well, but it had been published. The title was: The Torrential Spear, the Hunt for the Marwsh Killer by Krsysl Wordsmith.
The Torrential Spear or the Spear of Torrents. It was a funny name, probably based on Liscor. But Selys Shivertail had never known her grandmother had a title. So she read a long history about a Drake before she had retired to a backwater city where her daughter was raising a newborn baby girl. Riding onwards.
Searching for something to fill her empty, restless days.
 
——
 
Empathy was a terrible, necessary thing. It was the creation of civilization, the means by which you founded community. Law and order were what some people thought made nations; they were not. They were merely components of a puzzle. If everyone believed in the law in some kind of empirical, logical way, then they understood law was just there to maintain the façade, the illusion of safety. Such a people would break the law and only obey it if forced.
Empathy made neighbors. It was the reason you helped little old ladies cross the street and grabbed a bucket when you saw smoke coming out of someone’s house. It was a wonderful dagger to the heart. A self-inflicted weakness.
In principle, Calidus Reinhart liked it for anyone but him. He preferred people around him to be caring, thoughtful individuals. But he, personally, didn’t really do empathy. Or sympathy. He was a Reinhart; even before Magnolia’s binding, they hadn’t exactly had a history of caring about anyone else but themselves. It made you weak. And the family attacked weakness, like the vipers they were often compared to. Vipers amongst a bed of roses.
However, he tried now. He gazed down at the mutilated body of the Rank in front of him and pinched under one armpit. Bit his lip hard. Tried to think of something sad. No alcohol in the pantries. Or cellars.
“Tragic. Just appalling. A bright life snuffed out and—handkerchief!”
He dabbed at his eyes, trying to will some moisture up there. Blew his nose on general principle. Calidus gave up on the handkerchief and threw himself on the corpse. Half of it separated; she’d been rather thoroughly minced.
“On her first contract since leaving Chandrar! A child of, what, seventeen? All that potential! And I’ve let her down. Sweet summer’s child, adieu! Oh, lamentations!”
He cradled her cold flesh in one arm, blinking into the light for some more tears. He was doing his best, but at this point, even the Faces of the Assassin’s Guild—including the lovely Losmere—were eying Calidus.
Mildly unnerved. Which told Calidus he was doing something wrong. He stopped trying to wail and sat up after a moment. Brushed at some viscera and blood on his clothing.
“Not working? I felt like I was getting into the sadness there. One should mourn.”
“That is not the way of the Assassin’s Guild, Lord Calidus. Unless you intend to change things?”
He could never tell who said what with their damn masks. Calidus, dry-eyed, got up and paced around the body. He inspected the corpse again. Stabbed enough times her midsection had detached—with his accidental help.
“I’d like some more care and consideration, yes. It’s all part of my plan: don’t be murdered in my sleep when this goes pear-shaped. Which it is looking more and more likely to.”
He glanced around at the dozen or so Faces from the old Guild, all that remained, and blank-faced Ranks from Chandrar. Calidus smiled at Losmere.
“You don’t see it? Ha. Haha. Just me then?”
He knelt over the body and knew his life was on the line. Which did motivate him to some emotion, but he wasn’t a good [Actor], and he didn’t like himself that much. Tears might save his life, but Calidus just sighed. Genius, some called him. He certainly had the class.
[Genius of Sloth]. And he wasn’t purely analytical like Zeomtoril, his [Polymath]. He fancied he understood more of the world than if it were just a Golem’s logical place like Zeomtoril believed. So Calidus knew time was running out.
Still, he couldn’t cry. He just held the dead woman’s face. Her mask had revealed dusky features and freckles, which were paler than the surrounding skin; a fascinating thing. She might have become a feared Face of the Guild or so many things. Dead.
“I weep for the waste. Truly. Let’s all have a toast in her honor. Anyone know her name?”
He glanced around and sighed when it became obvious no one did. Calidus Reinhart toasted her anyways and got blind, stinking drunk. It seemed like the best move, really.
 
——
 
They were going to murder him. Calidus knew. He didn’t ask for this, but he could read the room.
Don’t get the Assassin’s Guild running? Old Regis has me murdered.
The Guild’s exposed? Same thing, and Magnolia probably kills me for my involvement.
Fail to keep it orderly and an [Assassin] murders me and takes over.
Fail to balance the Ranks and Faces? Civil war and killed for incompetence.
The only way he lived was the hardest and most narrow path: keep the Guild running and make sure it was a success. Not too much of a success or he was too powerful yadda yadda, but do a good job, in short.
No way out. Calidus had already calculated the odds of him escaping successfully, and at the moment, trying hard was his only option.
Mind you, trying hard for him was a few drunken speeches over the dead woman’s corpse, organizing her burial in a growing graveyard outside his mansion, and then drinking until he stumbled into bed and a delightful memory of—
He turned his head, and Losmere, the Human [Assassin] who seemed to speak and represent the old-guard [Assassins], was still in bed with him. She was highly attractive—to Calidus, at least.
Oh, she had claimed she wasn’t the most attractive woman under the mask, but what was a mask but mystique? Plus, she was exceptionally fit and scarred. She had a lot of knife-wound scars as an [Instructor] who taught Assassins, and there was nothing so alluring as a woman who could kill you.
Calidus’ recent memories were highly complimentary about her, and he smiled as he sat up in bed. She tugged up her cloth mask just enough to offer him a hint of a smile. He reached for a pitcher on a side table, poured himself a drink. Then sighed.
“You don’t seem much pleased given recent events.”
She had a purr to her voice that was so menacing it did wonderful things to the back of his brain, but Calidus’ damn mind overrode his baser instincts. He beamed at her anyways and handed her a cup.
“Oh, just grieving because it’s the last time we’re sleeping together, I fear. I do appreciate the effort, Losmere, and I shall kiss your fingers happily on farewell, but I do find that being slept with out of obligation takes the fun out of life.”
She was very well-trained, but [Assassins] were actually worse with social dissembling than they thought. It came from being good at murder, not talking. Just a hint of hesitation as she lifted the cup to her mouth, and then it stayed there to hide a reaction.
“A bold claim.”
“An accurate one!”
Calidus swung himself out of bed and began hunting for his pants. He didn’t look at her and dared to turn his back to an [Assassin] because he knew she wouldn’t kill him. He didn’t have time to be afraid of things that wouldn’t happen, which gave him that casual, even jaunty air that disconcerted them, he knew.
“What are you basing that on? I was quite—”
“Women don’t share the same bed with me after all is said and done unless they want something, Losmere.”
Another pause.
“You’re basing this purely on that?”
Calidus buttoned up his shirt, then glanced at her blank face. She was annoyed now, but he was casual. He knew he was right and began to elucidate his argument.
“I’m quite fine with it, you know. No hard feelings; I’m usually the result of a quite consensual agreement while we’re all shitfaced, and I like to think I’m good at pleasing my partners even so. But who’d stay in a bed like that? Once they’re done, most lovely ladies see themselves out or, at least, don’t care to sleep next to me. I snore. The bed is not that clean.”
He gave the rumpled sheets a pointed glance, and Losmere hesitated. Calidus kept ticking points off on his fingers.
“Furthermore, even if I assumed we were so enamored as to be laying on each other’s bosoms, you still wouldn’t be lying in bed with me. You are a trained [Assassin]; lying in a bed like that must go against your natural instincts. Third—is this the third point, I forget?—you woke up well before I did. Your tolerance for alcohol—if you even let yourself get drunk—is amazingly high, and a [Warrior] would be up for, what, an hour before me? You had to lie there, the entire time, to bring something up as we basked in the afterglow. No, you want something. You could just ask, you know.”
He sat down on the bed, and she shifted onto her feet, proving she really didn’t enjoy lying there. She sounded annoyed at herself, now.
“I told them I wasn’t good at covert missions. Understand, it wasn’t an attempt to subvert you—”
“Just get on my good side, yes, yes. And I’m inclined to listen, because, again, I need you. I die without you. I’ll take the romance and heartbreak, but go on.”
She stared at him, then shifted.
“This Guild you’re building. Work is…proceeding.”
“It’s not going well, but I’m organizing things. Go on.”
“We of the old Guild simply wish you to ensure we’re remaining as Faces. That the Ranks, these new fodder, aren’t elevated too quickly. And that our positions are protected.”
“You don’t want them challenging you and killing you in your sleep.”
Calidus translated, and she flushed before tugging her mask down and continuing to dress herself.
“We could slaughter them easily! However, if they kept attacking and came in numbers—”
“It’d be a bloodbath. Yes, yes. I’ll enforce your hierarchy. Tell the others I need cooperation, though, Losmere. No hazing the Ranks. No…do you rub their hair and dunk them in a well or something?”
She was silent, and Calidus eyed her. Losmere shrugged.
“We have been known to—test some recruits. Put them up against monsters or have them duel each other.”
“Ah, good old-fashioned hazing, then. None of that. Just do your job, and treat them professionally. No…asserting dominance. Understand?”
He waved a finger at her, and she hesitated.
“The Ranks are unruly. They’re still coming out of their training, and they’ll be obedient, but the cracks are showing, Lord Calidus. Give it a month at most and they’ll start developing personalities again. Within a year, they’ll be far more colorful, and we are inducting non-Chandrarian membership. If you don’t have strong leadership—”
“They’ll kill me or ignore me. I know.”
His eyes shone as he sat there, and she fell silent, her comments running into the Lord of House Reinhart’s too-calm expression. As if he knew everything she’d said. Calidus murmured.
“I’m trying to fix it. Thank you for the lovely illusion.”
She paused by the door, unwarrantedly uncomfortable. Losmere turned.
“For what it’s worth, it was not entirely—unpleasant to be courted.”
He smiled at her.
“High praise.”
He didn’t believe a word she said. The [Assassin] left silently to communicate to the others. Calidus? He just lay on his back a bit before cursing and getting up.
“Fine. Let’s try this damn thing.”
 
——
 
“Who killed the Rank?”
He wanted answers. He’d already put a moratorium on the [Assassins] just going out and taking jobs, but it seemed like it wasn’t working. It turned out Calidus was incorrect, though.
It took one of the Faces a while, but he eventually had an answer.
“It was not your family or a request through the Guild’s usual methods, such as they were, Lord Calidus. We have respected your commands while restructuring the Guild.”
“So the Rank just went for a walk?”
Calidus’ sarcastic tone made the Naga visibly stiffen, annoyed, but the [Lord] was more annoyed, so the Naga replied softly.
“This was a special request. Regis Reinhart demanded a spy to investigate…something. Three Ranks went. Two returned the body.”
“Ah, Grandfather. So he’s above the chain of command, I take it?”
“He is Regis Reinhart. The Assassin’s Guild has always listened to him. He is on a shortlist of targets we refuse to take. Three-Color Stalker being another famous example, worldwide.”
The Naga might have been from Baleros, or maybe he’d lived in Izril all his life. Calidus decided to ask.
“Are you from Baleros’ Guilds?”
“…As a Rank, yes.”
“Fascinating. I’d love to know how they do things.”
“Far more…unconventionally than here, Lord Calidus. Local chapters have secret passphrases and ornate rituals. Lizardfolk gangs who leave blood markings, and more formal groups in cities. They war with each other. One Guild in the north and south is far more preferable. And the north owes much to Regis Reinhart, we understand.”
“Despite the Circle of Thorns getting you all mostly killed? Regis is in there too, I’ll wager.”
Silence. The Naga slithered next to Calidus, and the [Lord] spoke.
“Right, well, he’s got the same sway in House Reinhart. No one goes against Grandfather except dear Aunt Magnolia. And he’s put me in a life-or-death situation fixing his mess. So here is my order: no one listens to him. Any request, any request goes through me or I expel you from the Guild and everyone who had knowledge of it. Understand?”
He raised his voice, and the Face hesitated.
“Regis Reinhart—”
“Don’t listen to me, go ahead! Just plunge a dagger into my heart! Go on!”
Calidus whirled and tore open his shirt. He chest-thrust himself at the Naga, who slithered back, recoiling. The Naga snapped, unusually disconcerted.
“What is it with you and offering to let us kill you?”
The [Lord] beamed.
“It’s because you need me. Until you no longer do, my life is the best card to play. You want to stop being hunted? You want a Guild? Grandfather wants it too, so in that case, what I say goes. No one overrules me! Agreed?”
He pointed at the Face, then to a few random shadows in his banquet hall. The Naga’s eyes slid sideways, and he murmured.
“Very well. Lord Regis’ requests are not exactly easy at the best of times. He may be unhappy, however.”
“Let him shout. Now, is my Guild ready?”
Calidus was already tired, but he strode out of his mansion and into the town and saw there was a fresh coat of paint on a building and a lot of rather unhappy people in plain clothes filing in. He beamed as the Naga sighed.
 
——
 
A Guild. That was the idea Calidus had had, and it looked like almost any Adventurer’s Guild in existence.
It did, in fact, say ‘Adventurer’s Guild’ on the sign. And the men and women of various species and ages inside lining up to register were also adventurers.
Bronze-rankers, mostly. Calidus himself watched the Naga be issued a Gold-ranker’s card and details. It wasn’t easy just creating someone at Gold-rank, mind you. There was a lot of paperwork to forge, and the other Guilds had their own records and didn’t exactly enjoy someone waltzing up and saying they had their own Gold-rankers, add them to a list.
Named-rankers were impossible to forge into existence without a lot of contacts, though Calidus had done his homework and had seen a ‘Regrika Blackpaw’ had been clearly forged as being Named-rank. But even she’d had to do it like he was doing now.
“When you put him at Gold-rank, pre-date all the records, oh, three years ago. You’re going to want about sixty adventuring entries here. Put them in sloppy shorthand. Then, when the other guilds ask for the file, send it over. Which we shall initiate by having a member complain their records aren’t being shown in another Guild.”
He was talking to the [Receptionist], who was a lovely young woman that had actually been part of the Adventurer’s Guild. Then fired for embezzlement. That’s what her file said, and Calidus didn’t ask how his grandfather had found her.
He suspected the Circle of Thorns or Regis’ ghostly maids were the real paper-pushers behind the scenes. Calidus had demanded a lot to make the Assassin’s Guild function again, and it amused him to think of the dreaded Circle assigning fifty [Secretaries of Darkness] or something to do what he needed.
Every organization needed quality staff. Unfortunately…a [Corrupt Receptionist] wasn’t exactly trustworthy. Which was why the sweating Human woman was very aware she was working for a bunch of undercover [Assassins].
Nothing instilled loyalty like the threat of death. Still…the Guild wasn’t exactly optimal, which was why Calidus was acting as the actual Guildmaster.
The Naga, who was very upset to show his rather handsome features, complete with a red patina of scales like a starburst around his mouth, glared at Calidus.
“This front is unnecessary, Lord Calidus. Our organization works optimally in secret. A more discreet headquarters could have similar organization and less showyness.”
“Yes, it could. But this provides you with a cover.”
“What cover? An adventurer who goes and kills—”
Calidus rolled his eyes.
“Not for you to use your identities! I expect that’s what the mask is for! It provides you cover to move. Or do you think it’s easy just riding around like some kind of baleful shadow at night? People pay attention to shadows! The Unmarked Coach is overtaxed and not reliable, and as for the Guild…we’re sort of low on black carriages after most of them exploded!”
Transportation was an issue, and the [Assassins] hesitated. Calidus went on smoothly.
“The Driver’s Guild may not be that intelligent, but my aunt is. Anyone who wants to pay attention will notice someone using the Overnight Carriages. As for riding into a city—nameless travellers do tend to stand out. What doesn’t stand out is a Bronze-ranker searching for work. You head out, kill a Corusdeer, party in the city for a night, and then after someone has a tragic accident, leave after a week.”
…It wasn’t actually a bad idea. The Faces had taken similar covers before, and the Naga grumbled.
“We do not all need to be adventurers, though. Too many in the same occupation is obvious.”
Calidus slid out from behind the counter and jogged out the door. He popped into a neighboring building and rested his chin on his hands on the counter.
“Fancy a job doing deliveries?”
The Runner’s Guild next door to the Adventurer’s Guild was also very new; this town hadn’t had either. The Naga opened his mouth, and Calidus gave him a level gaze.
“I did mention you had a choice of occupations. You didn’t listen to me.”
The [Assassin] didn’t dignify this with a comment. Calidus leaned over the counter.
“The rest of the staff who worked at your old Guild are coming here to work. We’ll have a jolly little town filled with lowlife scum…and [Assassins]. I don’t envy you having to put up with your neighbors. I never had a very orderly town. Lots of [Drunks], [Gamblers], and [Wastrels]. Something about me just attracts them. We’ll have housing, plumbing, all that sort of thing under the guise of normality.”
“And when someone comes through and realizes it is not normal?”
Calidus’ patient expression became even more friendly.
“They will not. I expect you all to behave like people. I want people, not killing automatons.”
The Face glanced at the Ranks, who were lined up like Golems but clearly listening in. He glared at Calidus.
“We are what we are, said the scorpion to the toad.”
“I always thought that was a stupid story. What kind of scorpion wants to die by stinging a toad midway across the river? Scorpions blend in with the sand and dig. They know how to wait! If Grandfather wants just mindless killers, he’d be better suited to replacing you all with Golems.”
The [Lord] glared back at the Face, and the Naga hesitated. Then Calidus beamed at Losmere and blew her a kiss. He spoke cheerfully.
“One last thing. As proper people, I do expect you to pay your taxes.”
“What?”
“I need an income to fund all this! And it seems to me you all might have hefty incomes.”
He rubbed his hands together, delighted. Calidus strode out of the Guild.
“Let’s get things running! I want to see everyone here take a request today! We need to look the part! The Adventurer’s Guild is open for business!”
He spread his arms, then hesitated. Calidus jogged back into the Guild.
“The Adventurer’s Guild of…what’s this damn town called?”
The terrified [Receptionist] whispered in his ear, and he pulled a face.
“Isbeut? Dead gods. Isbeut. Is it a pun? ‘Is beautiful’, perhaps? Named after some unfortunate…Isbeut. Ugh.”
He slapped the Naga on the back and handed him his adventurer’s card. The Naga glared and waited for this to go bad.
It only took about an hour for Calidus to learn the joys of working customer service in any capacity.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail stormed out of another city. Well, rode out in her magical carriage. Her cheeks were flushed under her scales, and she was ranting. Mostly to herself, but also to her friends.
The two rats, Rhata and Haldagaz, who were staring at her over her handbag where they usually resided…without much sympathy.
“Can you believe that, Haldagaz? Some city. I thought it was worth a chance, but—how dare he tell me I should be working at Liscor!”
The Guildmaster had been friendly enough, until he’d started telling her of course he’d consider her for a [Vice Guildmaster] class—she was so qualified and obviously it was all true! But they didn’t have that much work with all the adventurers leaving and new teams needing to be trained up. If she was so good at her job, why had she left Liscor?
Which Selys hadn’t dignified with a response. And his Guild had been tiny! Only eight Bronze-rank teams, two Silver-ranks who were full time! Obviously Liscor’s had only been a bit bigger, but she wanted better prospects than some rinky-dink nowhere Guild.
Those comments seemed to have annoyed her pet rats. Selys got a nudge from Haldagaz, and she shoved him with one claw, irritably.
“It wasn’t the right fit. I want potential, not a backwater. There’s just no respect for my class or my accomplishments. Really, it’s no wonder I’ve not found anything if all the Guilds are like—ow! Haldagaz! Rhata, he bit me!”
Haldagaz leapt away as Selys yelped, and she gaped at him, aghast. Her lovely little friend never bit her! But he seemed distinctly displeased, and when she turned to Rhata for support, the bulkier grey rat headbutted her hands.
“Don’t give me that! That was a nowhere city! I came to make a mark, not work for a dustball! Look at Ryoka! She worked in Reizmelt, and it’s famous now! The Wind Runner’s city! But it was also…it had a lot of advantages because…”
Selys had bought a local encyclopedia of northern cities, and she hunted through it to validate her point. Reizmelt, filled with opportunity, and, uh—
She slammed the book shut after Haldagaz made a few snide squeaking sounds.
“She was a Courier. I need a good Guild! Maybe the south is better. Yes, next to the New Lands! It’d only take…half a week…if we stay in the carriage to get somewhere nice in the south!”
Both rats rolled over on their backs, indicating what they thought of four days of nonstop carriage travel. Selys’ own butt hurt at the thought, and she curled her tail up.
“One more city. One more city and I’ll seek work in the south. I don’t have time to waste, you two. I just need to find a diamond in the rough.”
The two rats stared up at her so pointedly that Selys stopped studying a map of Izril and the little city nestled in the High Passes. She shoved the book into her bag of holding and picked the two rats up.
“If you’re giving me attitude, you can go rest in my purse. Stop wiggling! Stop—”
They were her pets—well, Calruz’s, but she had fed and taken care of them for a year now! She was in charge, but the two rats seemed to have snapped. They were squeaking, making outraged sounds like they were lecturing Selys, and when she went to put them in time-out, she found that she’d never had trouble with them before.
And she really didn’t know how strong Rhata was. Selys slammed into one wall of the carriage.
“Rhata? Rhata, stop wiggling! Get in the purse or I’ll—how the hell are you so—Rhata!”
There were a few thuds, loud squeaking, and some travellers on the road eyed the rattling carriage until a Drake almost went out the carriage door as it unlatched accidentally. She was fighting a single, very muscular rat whose flying headbutt was too strong for an [Heiress] who didn’t exactly work out.
 
——
 
Betrayed by even her rats. Selys Shivertail sat in one corner of the coach as her handbag, bulging as two very angry rats squeaked and fought to break out from the inside, rolled around in the front seats.
Even they don’t like me. I bet Mrsha said something to them. Or maybe they were going feral without a [Beast Tamer] like Elirr. She could drop them off at the inn, then…then…
Selys rolled into the last town she’d chosen just because it was within a day’s ride. An even less likely town than the last one, barely more than an upgraded hamlet. There was some fancy mansion on a hill and a lot of day-drunks.
The [Heiress] eyed the one inn in the town and instantly decided she wasn’t staying there. Another mismanaged little town owned by some incompetent [Lord]. She’d seen that more than once. Good provinces had good nobles like Pellmia of House Quellae. A bad noble and you got this.
“Okay, let’s go to Invrisil. I’ll do some shopping, head to Pallass if Liska doesn’t make a scene, and then we’ll go from there.”
She was programming the magical carriage to do just that when she heard a tearing sound. Then a furious Rhata leapt from the handbag she’d ripped open with her teeth.
“Rhata? Rhata, I did that for your own good! Don’t—aaaaaah!”
Selys jumped out of the carriage and slammed the door in Rhata’s face. She saw the carriage door rattle as the furious rat hit it, then she backed up.
This day couldn’t get any worse. Selys covered her face as she stood in the street. Then peered around to see if anyone had noticed.
A few people glanced at the Drake and shaking carriage, but most seemed keen not to be on the street. Especially where she was. Selys turned, and a huge sign above her read:
Adventurer’s Guild.
She stopped and blinked at the fresh coat of paint. Then at the Runner’s Guild next door. It sounded like there was a fight going on inside.
Great, seedy little town, seedy Guild. Selys recoiled and was edging around the carriage to see if she could hop in the front seat when she saw a man exit the Guild.
He was overweight with blond hair on his head that was unkempt or something—Selys didn’t get hair—and a sauntering walk that seemed to radiate a complete indifference to how anyone saw him. Not a put-upon confidence or swagger, more like a walk that said, ‘was your shin there? Well, my foot was here, what a coincidence!’ He also had expensive clothing that was clearly two-days lived in and rumpled with a wine spill down the collar.
A nobleman, perhaps the owner of this very town. But what struck Selys was his expression. His eyes were green, a familiar green that many of his House had. However, his features were just…blankly calm. When he glanced around, he didn’t seem surprised by anything. But he also looked disappointed.
In himself? In the world? It was a level of cynicism that even Selys Shivertail had to admire. She thought she’d seen the depths of it in a mirror, but this man looked like he might end it all if he found nothing to stop him. Like, say, a generous bottle of wine.
Which, perhaps, was a harsh read of his character. Or not, because he was, at this moment, splashing a full keg of lantern oil around the outskirts of the Adventurer’s Guild. The distinctive fumes of the alchemical liquid stung Selys’ nostrils, and she watched, mouth open, as he poured it down one wall.
Then showered himself with the liquid.
Then lit a match. A match? How did he have—?
“Lord Calidus! Stop!”
A man wearing a servant’s outfit and another woman, scars all over her arms, that Selys thought she recognized came out and tried to wrestle with him, yanking the match out of his hands. Calidus tossed the man down.
“Not now, Dorim, I’m making an executive decision. It turns out I can’t do it after all. Scrub it all; tell Grandfather I tried, but I’d rather self-immolate than settle disputes. Farewell.”
“Lord Calidus, you cannot—he’s serious. Someone help me!”
The woman saw the man light a second match from a little box and shouted inside. A Naga, of all things, emerged, but Calidus just tossed the first match at the keg. It lit, and the Naga grabbed the keg, swearing, and hurled it. Calidus lit a second, and it glowed as he smiled.
“Plan C it is—oh!”
The last exclamation was a shout of surprise, and then Calidus’ legs locked together. He began to keel over as Dorim and Losmere, panting, saw his eyes cross. Then they saw the Drake behind Calidus who had walked over and booted him between the legs as hard as she could.
“You idiot! Are you trying to burn down an Adventurer’s Guild?”
Calidus didn’t respond as he held his family jewels, which were now in great pain. Selys kicked the matchbox away and then whirled.
“Someone get some water! This maniac is trying to burn down the Guild and everyone in it! Hello?”
She dashed inside, and Calidus heard the fighting between the angry Ranks grow louder, then a voice.
“[Listen to Me]! Someone get water and get out of the Guild in case it ignites!”
Hesitation, then a figure bailed out the window. Calidus saw Losmere recoil warily, and as he lay on the ground, agony replacing his desire to burn in a fireball, he saw the door of the magical carriage unlatch and a pair of little rats peer around from the inside.
He had never, ever seen nor imagined a rat could have actual biceps. The [Lord] stared at the rats, then started giggling to himself.
 
——
 
Ten minutes later, Selys Shivertail was panting as water washed away the oil. She had four people with stab wounds having first aid applied to them as a [Healer] was sent for, a lot of broken tables and chairs, a staff who seemed paralyzed by fear, and a madman of a [Lord].
…And she had no idea why she was here. Only that this Guild was pure insanity.
“They began stabbing each other over what? A contract? Not the reward for one, but a—a contract?”
“T-to kill a boar, Miss. Yes.”
A terrified [Receptionist] was standing behind the counter. She was quite attractive with reddish-blonde hair all in a fetching ponytail and a fresh uniform on. Something about her didn’t make Selys trust her.
She reminds me of that squirrely [Receptionist] who kept skimming coppers off of bounties a year before Erin showed up. It was just instinct, but Selys believed her; the woman was genuinely rattled.
“So not for the money. For who got the request? Are you that hard up on jobs?”
No response. The rest of the staff were peering at the ground or at Selys out of the corner of their eyes, utterly terrified…except for a white-haired man who was genuinely old. He had wrinkles on his hands—what she could see of them.
He had the oddest gloves in the world. They were finger-gloves, so they only covered the first two knuckles on his hands.
Who wears gloves like those? Selys’ mind supplied the answer after a moment.
[Rogues]. People who don’t like fingerprints showing. Seborn always has gloves on his Human hand.
He responded in a dry tone as he bent over a sheaf of paper, writing calmly.
“The four of them all wanted the same boar-request. Lord Calidus bade them all take a job, and there was a concern there were not enough requests for everyone. Hence when one tried to turn it in first—”
“They went to violence? What are they, mad?”
He just glanced up at her, and his expression was not like Calidus’, bored of life. His was a blank face that she had seen on some [Veterans]. Some killers who applied to be adventurers. She shuddered as the man replied.
“They’re new, Miss. Doubtless someone is grateful for your help. You should now leave. This is not the place for you.”
That annoyed her. Selys hadn’t wanted to stay in this rinky-dink town, but just for that, she drew herself up.
“Someone has to tell the Guildmistress of this place it’s being run to madness! Who’s in charge here?”
“That would be me.”
Lord Calidus Reinhart was holding his groin, but smiling as he eyed her. He appeared the slightest bit curious—then spoke.
“Miss Selys Shivertail, we meet again. What is a young [Heiress] doing touring the north?”
She jumped.
“How did you—?”
He sat down in a chair, groaning, as the very odd adventurers stood outside, listening.
“First Landing, the Lighthouse Bar. I noticed the rats. I didn’t put it together with your name until just now—fascinating. Are those rats magical or just empowered by a Skill?”
“Wh—they’re owned by my friend. One’s intelligent, the other’s strong. How did you—?”
She realized Rhata and Haldagaz were in another man’s hands, eating from a bowl. And drinking some wine? Calidus nodded.
“Put them there, Dorim, there’s a good man. Well, Miss Shivertail, you defused the situation in here quite rapidly. Thank you. But you also prevented me burning myself to death, so I hold that against you. Calidus Reinhart. Lord of these lands and Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild of Isbeut. Right up until I can find another match.”
He held out a hand, and she eyed his hand covering his groin and folded her arms.
“Selys Shivertail, as you well know. [Heiress]. What is a [Lord] doing running an Adventurer’s Guild?”
“I thought it’d be easy.”
“Hah!”
He didn’t take offense to the scoff, but just nodded.
“It turns out dealing with people in any reasonable sense of the word is far too much for me. Nor do the staff have any competency there. The ones too terrified to say anything versus the ‘originals’ who are…?”
He glanced pointedly at the old man, who looked up from his work and bowed, though he was so bowed over it didn’t really do much.
“Lagrisse, Lord Calidus. The policy of the Guild was to let members sort out such matters. Staff getting in the way tended to get killed.”
“Well, there’s a new damn policy in place. Based on respect! Appreciation for hard work! And—argh, it’s hopeless. Match.”
Calidus held out a hand, and no one gave him one. Selys watched the two rats crawl over the table to sniff at him. He eyed them, then her.
“My new Guild is not going well. Nor are my, ah, new adventurers that manageable, Miss Selys.”
“I can see that. You should have told them that if they can’t find work, there will be plenty later! You shouldn’t have them brawling in the first place—stabbing—do you even know them?”
She indicated the very odd, very silent figures lying on the ground and then had a thought. They’re not even crying out. She’d known Gold-rankers who screamed and carried on with a torn hangnail. Selys’ scales began to crawl, but Calidus just beamed at her.
“Not at all! I’m a friend to anyone with drink in hand, but I don’t do people well. Dealing with petty complaints makes me want to die.”
“Well, this Guild isn’t going to last long without a good manager.”
Selys glanced around, and even the old man, Lagrisse, nodded at that. She gazed at the silent figures and noted the too-blank expressions.
Very fit people. Most adventurers aren’t actually that fit-looking until they hit at least Level 20. They were fast too. Not many can actually stab someone else without being very angry.
And…she just had a sense quite a number of them were over Level 30. Way too many for some no-name Guild she’d never heard of.
A magnificent Guild in some senses. Full of potential, talent, and a lot of knives. And so Selys scooped up her two rats and backtracked to her carriage, smiling hugely.
“—But I wouldn’t like to lecture too much, er, Lord Calidus! I’ll just be on my way! Er, so pleased to meet you—”
She bumped into a Naga as she tried to back out of the Guild, and Calidus smiled at her. He sipped from the cup the two rats had been drinking from.
“I can see the cover of the Guild really doesn’t hold up to scrutiny. You might be right, Qissax.”
The Naga put a hand on Selys’ shoulder, and she froze. His claws pricked her scales at the lightest touch they were so sharp.
“Shall we arrange an accident, Lord Calidus? She is too important to go unnoticed. But a failure of Wistram’s magical spells a province or two over—”
“H-hey. Hold on, I have people who’ll come looking for me. The Wandering Inn—”
Selys’ throat closed as the Naga eyed her, and for a second, his eyes gleamed with that merciless amusement.
“[No False Threats]. No one knows you’re here, do they?”
She couldn’t say a word. The Naga casually put a claw around her throat, and Selys couldn’t breathe. Calidus Reinhart eyed her, chewing on some cheese, and then spoke.
“Qissax—lovely name by the way—are you blind, man? Here comes Lady Fortune herself, with her ample bosom of chaos, and you want to do her a disservice and throw away our gift?”
“Hmm?”
The Naga hesitated, and Calidus leapt to his feet. He spread his arms, embraced Selys, and pulled her out of the Naga’s grasp. Then he lifted her arm in the air.
“Ladies, Gentlemen, Faces! I give you…your new Guildmistress!”
He beamed as every face turned to Selys. She was pale, and her mouth opened to protest before Calidus leaned over.
“Just so you know, they’re all [Assassins], not members of the underworld. And if you run or send a [Message], they’ll kill you exceptionally dead. We’re in this together, Miss Selys. How does lunch sound? My chef does an entirely adequate spread.”
He beamed at her. She made a choking sound and wished, in that moment, that she’d gone south instead of north. She had no excuse for this one, really.
But she still blamed Erin for it.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart was a practical man. When coincidence served him a solution on a silver platter, he didn’t argue with it.
He just investigated to make sure this was a coincidence, not his aunt’s scheming. Though frankly, he thought this was all far too stupid, even for her.
“Hmm. [Heiress], lost her grandmother, a famous [Spearmaster] and Guildmistress of Liscor, in the Winter Solstice. Public fight with a [Princess]…wait, what?”
He was skimming a report as Qissax, Losmere, and a few Faces sat with him, reviewing his new Guildmistress. She was in the guild, taking stock; not like she had any choice.
He’d laid out the situation to her, and he gave her credit: she understood just what she’d walked into. Actually, she was too calm—he had orders to have her watched and had asked the [Assassins] not to kill her if she ran.
He needed someone to do this job, especially because she’d stopped him from burning himself and the Guild down.
Which had been Plan C, damnit! Calidus had realized how stupid his idea was and had been about to set himself on fire.
He’d calculated that if he was lucky, Zeomtoril could heal him and fake his death. After all, the old [Polymath] knew that if Calidus ever burned himself alive, it was a fakeout. At least, Calidus hoped he remembered the plan.
No doing it all over again; he’d lost his nerve, and living the rest of his life with that kind of burn scar wasn’t that appealing. But Calidus stopped as he read the report. The Assassin’s Guild had lovely reports; that fellow, Lagrisse, was a [Secret Broker]—actually, an employee of the old Guild.
“There’s a [Princess] in Liscor? And no one told me?”
Calidus’ outraged face made the Faces sigh. Qissax tapped the table pointedly.
“All of Izril knows the 6th [Princess] of Calanfer lives in The Wandering Inn, Lord Calidus.”
“Well, I don’t. I’ve had my head in a pillow, a bucket of drink, or some lovely lady’s chest nonstop! How attractive is—oh my. I think I need t—”
Calidus turned the page, then sagged.
“Children. Nevermind. Wait, she’s the one with the beach!”
He brightened up again.
“The Wandering Inn. I beat that lovely [Innkeeper] at chess, didn’t I? Damn her.”
He really was out of the loop in an amazing way. The Faces exchanged glances.
“Do you not pay attention to the news, Lord Calidus?”
“News? I’m all up to date on the New Lands. Channel 1 News. Those two Drakes are about as dry as Grandfather Regis’ back, but listening to them for thirty minutes keeps me up to date. I quite like the other Drake, but I don’t care to know what song the Singer of Terandria is playing next—nor how the war in Reim is actually going.”
Lord Calidus glanced around.
“…I can see I’m among people who prefer the news with some character. Fair, fair. So this Selys genuinely seems to have left due to fighting with her former friends. She’s talented; Liscor had a few nasty events. Well more than a few. Huh.”
He stared at a list of events and began to open up related pages, fascinated. He had no idea it had been that bad over there.
Ironically, Lord Calidus was not the sort of man who liked the television much. Unlike a certain Lord Moltin, Calidus would much rather be drinking, reading a book, or flirting than letting someone else dictate the flow of information to him. He’d had the thought that Wistram was probably spying on him via their scrying orb, so until the television became all-encompassing, he’d only bought a scrying orb to have it installed under a horse’s privy.
So he was one of the few people in Izril who didn’t know—nor really care—about The Wandering Inn. At least, until now. Calidus was muttering.
“Winter Solstice. Winter Solstice? That’s when Aunt Magnolia released us. What the hell does Draugr attack mean? Plural?”
His eyes flicked down the page. Then went back up. He checked the notes, then leaned over.
“Is this accurate? You don’t do hearsay, do you?”
“About what, Lord Calidus?”
He shoved the report over.
“That.”
The Faces read. They exchanged a glance. One of them, a Stitch-woman with a veil over her face, shrugged.
“I heard that happened. There are recordings, Lord Calidus. Incomplete, but that’s what the Five Families claimed occurred. There are doubts among many that the event was completely real, however.”
“Recordings. Of ten thousand Draugr coming down out of nowhere, a super-[Necromancer] and two Bone Giants—get me a [Mage].”
Calidus rose to his feet, and he was fascinated. He gazed around at them. The [Assassins] were doing their ‘too cool to be fazed’ thing, but he wasn’t above that.
“There was an entire war around Liscor, Drakes and Humans fighting side-by-side, and it has not swept the north?”
“It might not have occurred that way, Lord Calidus. Casualties were high, but given the magnitude, one would have expected Liscor to fall. It isn’t the first time the city has had something dramatic happen to it.”
Calidus gazed down at the list of attacks on Liscor again. He whirled.
“I suppose I’m the perfect example of why it’s not the center of all attention—I want confirmation on all of this. Did the Small Queen really storm Invrisil and fight the Assassin’s Guild in the streets?”
This time, Losmere eyed him, legitimately affronted.
“She did. I was there for that. How did you not see it?”
“I don’t really care what happens in Izril. Do you? I don’t care who’s the head of House Terland, who’s sleeping with who, and if the King of Destruction sweeps Chandrar or dies in a ditch. But dead gods—do you have a recording? That’s worth watching. That’s hilarious.”
He grinned until he saw every [Assassin] glaring at him. Calidus sat down.
“I mean, tragic. Yes, yes. Horrific, senseless [Assassin] violence. I’ll take every recording you have and a drink. Popcorn?”
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, Calidus Reinhart wasn’t eating popcorn or even drinking more than water. He’d gotten too depressed.
“Maviola El! Maviola, Lady Firestarter herself!”
He was crying huge, blobby tears onto Qissax’s shoulder. The Naga eyed him as Calidus wept.
“She—she’s so beautiful! She was right there, and I—I never got a chance to flirt with her. In her prime! Dead gods, she’s incredible! Calidus, you fool!”
He ripped his shirt open, and the [Assassins] genuinely had no idea what to say. This man—truly lived a life contrary to everything they believed.
In truth, Calidus was hamming it up a bit to solidify his image in their heads. Better they thought him a silly man than dangerous. And…he gazed down at the orb, then flicked it to the next recording.
“There dies an El in all the true spirit of the Five Families. We poor successors shattered by the Goblin King are less for her absence. Gresaria Wellfar. I always liked her bellowing orders at ships and cursing them like a storm. Damn.”
He sat down, and one of the Faces spoke.
“She was responsible for the Guild of Assassins in First Landing being destroyed. I trust you are not mourning her, Lord Calidus?”
There was an edge in the half-Elf’s tone. He had a scar down one side of his face, a nasty one. As if magic had melted his skin; part of his skull was showing. Calidus glanced up.
“One would have thought a smart [Assassin] wouldn’t have put their Guild in the north’s most powerful city. Gresaria Wellfar switched my behind twice as a child for putting her docks into chaos and danger. I’ll mourn whomever I damn well please.”
The half-Elf’s eyes flashed. He bristled, and Calidus ignored him.
“I’ve said it and I’m getting tired of it: kill me if you’re going to. Otherwise, shut up and let me do what I want.”
There was a sound—Calidus glanced at Losmere.
“If he tries to stab me or whatnot, kill him. Or decide this isn’t working and start searching for a new base and more reasonable Guildmaster.”
She hesitated. Calidus ignored them all without even pretending to pay attention to if they were going to kill him. He had no time for them.
He was…fascinated. Much like Damia, Calidus was drinking in knowledge.
“She killed the Prince of Erribathe. Dead gods.”
“You truly didn’t know?”
“I saw the Terandrians were in danger and the Bloodtear Pirates were mincing them. The scrying orb kept cutting to crying nobility, so I turned it off. What would it have changed? Good for the [Pirates], I thought. But that—”
He stared at the image of a woman knifing Prince Iradoren through the heart. And Calidus leaned forwards.
“…What kind of knife cuts through enchanted armor like that?”
In that sense, he had the Faces’ attention, because Calidus was asking the questions that resonated with them. They went silent, and even the half-Elf blinked as Calidus frowned at another recording.
“Hmm. Winter Solstice. Is that a furry elephant charging Aunt Magnolia? Dead gods, the stones on the woman! And you tossed her for Regis? Nevermind that. Right here. And someone pull up that image of Bird the Hunter shooting Wyverns.”
Both recordings were presented, and the [Assassins] gathered around. Calidus replayed it again on slow.
“Is that swordwork real? How about the impacts on flesh and bone? It’s a massed-melee. I assume it’s hard to fake that much and not have a single mistake. Anyone?”
“It…looks accurate to me. If anything, the blades seem to be bouncing too much. Though given how tough the flesh is—”
“The Wyvern one is real. That’s how eyes deform when arrows hit them.”
The bemused Faces had never had anyone make them play forensic detective. But they knew their craft, and all agreed it looked real to them.
“The Trial of Blades is absolutely real. See those cuts? We had a [Wiremaster] who was able to cut with metal that fine. That’s exactly how it looks when a limb is severed. See the ragged edges on that limb? Poorer blademastery.”
Calidus sat back.
“So it happened.”
He sat there and put Erin’s chess game, which he himself had participated in, with the rest. The [Lord] stood up.
“Compile all the reports. I’ll read the rest later. Let’s say I believe this all happened. Doesn’t Rhaldon deliver through Liscor? I’ll confirm with him. Selys Shivertail is from that city. She was a [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild during major events. She’s perfect to manage our Guild of Assassins.”
“Lord Calidus, with respect, the Guild used to operate—”
He slammed a fist on the table.
“The Guild does not have any of its systems in place!”
The Faces blinked at him, and he went on, voice steady.
“It has no control over its members. It has no existing membership with loyalty or a high-level Guildmaster who can enforce their will by might. What it has are hundreds of Ranks and new [Assassins] who have no real loyalty to the Guild and who we have no control over. I have been attempting to forge a bond of some kind with them. Because if we do not have that, then that little scuffle over requests? It is going to be that but a hundredfold for all of you.”
He looked the Faces in the eyes.
“Grandfather Regis is out-of-touch. He’s used to people getting things done, so he dumped this problem in my lap. If he fails, he’ll find someone else and do it again. Buy a thousand more Ranks until the Assassin’s Guild is working. He has time. We have only one life, and if I do not have the Ranks’ loyalty, then they’ll murder you all in your sleep for your titles.”
The Faces had been worried about just that. They went still now as Calidus sat.
“Selys Shivertail’s life is on the line. Let’s hope, ladies and gentleman, that she can take charge. So you were objecting to…what, exactly?”
He steepled his fingers, and the Faces peered at each other and then shifted.
“—She should, perhaps, have someone guarding her as well as monitoring her at all times, to begin with, Lord Calidus.”
“Agreed. Let her know you’re backing her up. I’ll make sure she speaks to me about anything needed. And have her take over the Runner’s Guild too; I’m not doing it. Get her lists of all the staff from the old Guild; she’ll need their help. Oh, and Zeomtoril. Nothing like a [Polymath] for making whatever you want in a hurry. Zeomtoril!”
Calidus went striding out of his meeting room, and the old man was not happy to be called out of his workshops.
“First we have these murderers breathing down our necks, now we’re running a Guild? This better not be because you’re sleeping with her, Calidus, or I am leaving!”
The [Lord] beamed at the [Polymath].
“Zeomtoril, they’ll find you in a second, no matter what kind of invisibility-teleportation-anti-detection nonsense you think you’ve got. We’re stuck together, so play nice, do whatever this lovely Drake asks—and I’m not sleeping with her, though it’s a novel concept, thank you for suggesting it—incidentally, did you know about the Winter Solstice?”
Zeomtoril eyed Calidus.
“…The mess down in Liscor or the undead that attacked Rhaldon?”
“Hmm. How accurate to the truth are the rumors?”
“I heard Oswen vanished, and it’s damn well gone.”
“Where was that in the—last question, Zeomtoril. Do you remember our Pyre Initiative plan?”
“Which crazy idea was this?”
Calidus exhaled and patted the man on the shoulder again.
“Good to know.”
He walked off, leaving Zeomtoril to cursing his back. Calidus moved into his study and poured himself a drink—of water. Then he sat at his desk, drawing with the water.
After a while, Dorim poked his head into the study.
“Did you need anything from me, sir?”
“No. Yes. How much do you know about that inn, Dorim? I know you were paying attention. A good [Majordomo] does. Wait, are you a [Majordomo] or did I hallucinate changing your class?”
The man jumped. He bobbed up and down.
“I was your chamberlain, sir. Although I had an [Innkeeper] class as well, um—t-then you changed it.”
“Upgraded. Right. Since you’re staying on until the bitter end, you might as well have a decent class of it. It was just messing with staffing.”
That’s all some classes were. Fulfill the requirements and they popped up, but sometimes if you got cheeky, they didn’t show up or altered. He liked the variances. But to Dorim, it had clearly shaken the man. He’d changed his very nature by a few of Calidus’ thoughts colliding.
It might well be Dorim who understood Calidus the best at the moment. Zeomtoril was still fooled by the act, but the [Majordomo] saw Calidus dipping a finger into the cup at his desk and drawing on the wood. A child’s doodles. But he had once looked over the man’s shoulder and seen the strangest and most intricate of writings soaked into the wood before it had dried away.
Notes for a mind which refused to commit anything even to paper, because paper could be copied by so many Skills. But try getting water from wood in the pattern it had soaked in. Hah!
In that way, Calidus was still a Reinhart, he supposed. The [Lord] kept writing as Dorim waited for instructions or insights into Calidus’ mind, then crept off. And the [Lord] was aware a Face might be watching him, even now, though they’d probably not understand what he was writing since he did it only for himself.
It didn’t matter. He was just…thinking.
He’d known about half of it. Of course, Calidus had known Maviola El had died. His drinking buddies had talked about that and big events in the news. That was how he found most things out, sitting and gossiping and being the last one to be filled in on things. If it mattered, he’d hear it from nobility or commonfolk or be confronted with it.
The same for the cracked moon and Goblin King, even the Winter Solstice. Calidus had known of lots of the pieces, and he’d kept tabs on that inn, mostly to see if the [Innkeeper] was up to something fun. But he had never put it all together like that.
It all connected. You might think it didn’t…but he’d seen more in those stories than even the Winter Solstice.
Belavierr the Stitch Witch lands in Izril. A [Witch] coven forms in the Unseen Empire. Belavierr is chased off by [Ladies]. Thus begins Maviola El’s final days.
The Unseen Emperor was at the Winter Solstice. A known friend of the [Innkeeper], who is a [Witch] and has visited the Unseen Empire.
Belavierr attacked that inn and participated in the Meeting of Tribes—where the Titan of Baleros was.
The Titan of Baleros plays chess with Erin Solstice.
Maviola El went to the inn. Her fire…the fire of that [Innkeeper]…the same Skill?
Chieftain Rags. Goblin Lord Ragathsi. Goblins at the inn.
The Meeting of Tribes. Doombearer child. From the inn. Wind Runner. Ryoka Griffin. Ties back to Magnolia, Tyrion. Ailendamus war?
All of it was connected. The more he worked, the more he realized he could trace almost every major event in the region to…the Horns of Hammerad, the Ruins of Albez, the Haven moving…the <Quests>? The New Lands?
He saw it, then. A gigantic picture that made him wonder what level that [Innkeeper] was. What…
“There is something else. Some other intersection here.”
Calidus peered at names he’d underlined. Joseph. Erin Solstice. Cara O’ Sullivan? Ryoka Griffin. He studied the names, remembered hearing about his aunt acquiring young people. The family had gossiped about it while they were stupid, and Aunt Cecille had made some joke about Magnolia preying on children. Now…Calidus turned.
“Face, Majordomo, whichever one of you is closest, I need an information lookup. Now. Does the family or someone in the Five Families or the Assassin’s Guild know about strange Humans?”
After a second, Dorim poked his head into the study and began to send [Messages] through Calidus’ channels. A Face coincidentally walked in a minute later, and Calidus sat there. A name came to him, since it was being spoken too often, too much. And again he saw it was not just Rhaldon, but everywhere.
“Earthers.”
Then he saw a greater picture, and he would have laughed or wept, but he just sat back, eyes opened wide as a second world collided with his and set his notions tumbling. He sat there, staring at it all. Then he just sighed.
“A shame it seems I’m not on her side. Tell me more.”
Some men were doomed to be the villains of the story.
Calidus hoped he’d just be the buffoon who got to see how it ended.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail had heard of Djinni wishes before. Where you made a wish and the Djinni, spiteful, tried its best to twist it into the worst possible variant. In a way, that was her life.
She had gotten her wish: she was now Guildmistress of an Adventurer’s Guild. Only, it was a front, her ‘adventurers’ were all [Assassins], and if she didn’t do her job right, or told anyone, they’d kill her.
And you know what?
It was fine.
It was! Not ideal, but Selys Shivertail knew she was trapped here, and if she panicked, she would die. The terrified [Corrupt Receptionist], whose name was Pilana, had shown Selys a piece of ground just outside the town in a copse of trees.
There were four mounds of recently dug soil. Four members of staff who’d ran for it or tried to tell someone.
Selys was surprised there were only four. But she supposed people weren’t idiots. Selys had done an inventory of her staff, and most were just…bad.
Dregs, she supposed, that this Lord Calidus had found. Pilana was one of the more competent ones, which sucked. But she’d been a good [Receptionist] in First Landing’s Adventurer Guild—just one who skimmed money off of adventurers’ jobs. Which made her scum.
Selys didn’t know what she’d done to get this job, but she’d also identified Lagrisse as talented; he had worked for the old Assassin’s Guild. She’d told both of them to report to her for her first day on the job.
And you know what? Selys was going to do her damn job, figure out a way to survive, and level. Because that’s how you dealt with Solstice events. Which is what this clearly was, even if she couldn’t figure out how Erin had messed with her this time.
Survive, wait a month or two for Zevara to uncover the Assassin’s Guild, and don’t get stabbed when Valeterisa comes flying down and starts blasting everything with Tier 6 spells. Good plan.
Perhaps that was Selys’ denial, but she had to cling to something. And she could do this. She talked to Rhata and Haldagaz as she laced up some boots she hadn’t worn until now. You needed boots in the Adventurer’s Guild. To stomp on people’s toes and because adventurers tracked in muck.
“I can handle [Assassins], Rhata, Haldagaz. I’m not keen on them, but if this Lord Calidus gives me actual authority, I can run a Guild, even an Assassin’s Guild.”
The two rats were standing on their hindlegs and giving her very dubious looks. They seemed worried—well, Haldagaz did—and he was nibbling on his own tail. But Selys just shook her head at him.
“Don’t give me that look. I’m a practical Drake. Erin would be all precious about them. Remember the Maestro and Symphony? She doesn’t have any give in her. She’s an idiot. Me? [Assassins] have been around way before Erin and her Ultra Moral Inn. They’re a part of our society, north and south! They have rules. There’ll be exceptions, but better rules than anarchy.”
She nodded to herself, thinking out loud.
“I wish I had help, though. Or that I’d actually bought a Djinni, but they’re so damn expensive! And you have to bind them, and I just knew Erin would get on my back about one.”
Wasted opportunities. She shook her head. It wasn’t like she’d ever wanted to get into [Slaves], but magical Djinni were different. A nuance Erin didn’t get. Even if you wanted to let a Djinni out of the bottle, it would kill you. In the same vein…[Assassins]. She could deal with them. They killed people. So did Named-rankers, and she understood you had to hush that up sometimes. Not that she knew if her Grandmother ever had, but this was the reality.
Selys Shivertail opened her closet to find a good outfit for the morning, and a blank-faced Stitch-girl was standing inside. Slightly hunched over to fit, but just…standing there.
She stared at Selys.
Selys stared at the [Assassin].
“Hand me that dress. The one in dark blue.”
The Rank handed Selys the dress. The Drake inspected it. Handed it back.
“No, it doesn’t work. I think the austere grey one. With the inkstains on the hem. Yes, thank you. Hang this one back up.”
She handed the dress back and received the grey dress after a moment. Selys closed the closet, straight-faced, and was rewarded with a blink from the [Assassin] as the doors closed. Selys pretended not to notice.
Yes, she could do this.
 
——
 
“Did you put the [Assassins] to watching me, Lord Calidus, or is that just their hobby? Because I object to both, especially if I can find one.”
Selys was rewarded by a blink from the [Lord] as he came to check on her after breakfast. He was all smiles, but she had noted how he looked around the Guild. Checking to see if she was panicking or doing her job. She was doing paperwork, reviewing the names Lagrisse had handed her.
“Oh my, you saw one of them? Tsk, tsk. I did put them on you, but how did you see…?”
Selys held up a claw and showed him one of her many protective rings.
“Anti-invisibility ring.”
“Ah. Well, they’re young. Ranks. Quite new. The Faces you never see.”
“Hmpf. So Named or Gold-rankers versus Bronze-rankers? And my job is to both send them on contracts while maintaining their cover?”
“Yes, exactly. You see, it’s this rather ingenious—”
“It’s going to fail if they’re not actually adventuring. Other adventurers will notice someone walking in and doing a job. The Ranks have all the personality of lemons. Undead lemons. People pay more attention to adventurers than you think. If they’re going to do this, I want the authority to give them orders. And discipline them. Which means protection for me.”
She was again rewarded by Calidus’ hesitation, his eyes flickering. Selys feared he’d object, but he seemed to read ahead of the conversation and beamed.
“So you are doing your job! Splendid! Yes, whatever you need. It’s all very new, and I need my lovely [Assassins] to mind the protocols of the Guild. No challenging each other for a Face’s seat. That results in a lot of blood.”
She tilted her head.
“So how do they advance? How many Faces are there, and how does one win candidacy?”
The Ranks were sitting around the Guild, not doing much of anything. One had come back covered in blood in the morning and tossed down the head of a wolf; they’d done the request to hunt one. It was all wrong, but Selys was focusing on the important part first. At her words, she saw the Ranks go even stiller.
Listening. Calidus paused, and from the way his eyes ruefully flicked to hers, she saw he got it too. A smart man? She hoped so. He cleared his throat as he leaned on her counter.
“Excellent questions. Losmere? How many Faces are there? How does one advance?”
He and Selys waited. After a moment, Calidus sighed.
“Okay, which Face is following me? Name and appearance, please.”
Very reluctantly, someone stepped out of Calidus’ shadow. A Drake—well, Selys thought they were a Drake; their entire face was just a shadow instead of colors or detail.
“Lord Calidus. If I may have a word—”
“No, speak to our Guildmistress. Name?”
“…My nickname is the Creeping Shadow. A Face. If you are asking how many Faces there are in the Assassin’s Guild, the number has always varied. A Face is designated as one by the Guildmaster—”
“Or Guildmistress.”
Selys interrupted, and the Creeping Shadow went silent. She smiled politely at him.
“I’m sorry, you were saying? It is Guildmistress, or has it only been the Guildmaster?”
“The former Guildmaster reigned in their position for eleven years until he was overthrown due to his loyalties to Magnolia Reinhart. Then the current Guildmaster perished in the Guild at First Landing along with—”
“Dead gods, he didn’t even get out? And here I thought the head of the Assassin’s Guild was the highest-levelled.”
“I suppose you don’t outrun Tier 7 Spells.”
Selys and Calidus’ commentary was not helping the Creeping Shadow’s reputation, and the Face was getting…annoyed. Selys felt a queasy moment of fear in her stomach, and the shadows around her and Calidus lengthened. She jabbed a claw at him.
“See? That. That’s what I mean. No using [Fear] or Skills on me. I am the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild here, and if you want this to work, Lord Calidus, you will give me control.”
Again, the [Lord] eyed her, then nodded and gave the Creeping Shadow the hardest elbow Selys had ever seen. The figure jumped an actual foot in the air.
“You heard her. Stop that. So it sounds like the numbers of Faces vary and it only requires impressing you to be made one. Or, I suppose, me.”
Selys nodded.
“I understand. That’s the way the system worked. Now here’s the way the system is going to work. Pending a complete survey of the number of [Assassins] in the Guild, we will operate on a 1-100 basis. One Face per one hundred members. We may shift the numbers around, but that is for open slots. Otherwise, a Face must be designated by you, Lord Calidus, or myself for outstanding actions. Or levels. Hit Level 40 and you will be considered a Face. Is that good enough to start with? Oh, and a Face will lose their rank if they are inactive too long, fail too many assignments, or the number of Faces exceeds a threshold.”
She knew they were listening. [Assassins], young and old. The Creeping Shadow protested.
“Lord Calidus, one does not remove a Face.”
“One didn’t until now. I agree. No, shut up. If any Faces object, materialize, and you should have spoken before now, instead of doing your annoying silent appearances. We need order. This Drake is giving us that.”
Calidus applauded. No one joined in, so he kept doing it until Selys cleared her throat.
“I have more. A Face is not subject to needing to take requests from the Guild. Everyone else is. A Face has access to premium rooms, gear, the best services of the Guild—we do have services, right?”
The [Lord] tapped a finger to his lips.
“Well, Zeomtoril. And we could get some [Blacksmiths] and dedicated [Alchemists].”
“The Guild has specialists. Some of whom are making their way here, Guildmistress, Lord Calidus.”
Lagrisse brought Selys another stack of papers and murmured. She nodded at him.
“Faces don’t pay for those unless it’s expensive. Faces eat anywhere in the town for free. They can call on Ranks to help them—all the old perks of the job. Agreed?”
“One question, if I may.”
Calidus was propping his chin up on his hands, watching her with a fascinated gleam in his eyes. Even the Creeping Shadow and a few other figures who’d materialized were watching Selys. Perhaps they too felt it.
Organization replacing uncertainty and anarchy. Selys spoke briskly.
“What? Also, I’m going to start calling out names. If yours is called, line up with Miss Pilana here. I’m going to give you your first requests—slaying monsters to establish your cover stories. And I’m going to have to explain how you take and turn in requests. No wolf heads. Skin the wolf or haul it to a [Butcher]’s!”
Drinks. They needed drinks and food. And if she had as much money as she thought, they could afford other amenities. The Ranks…they were like Golems, just standing there.
Or Antinium. Selys had a feeling that was important, essential to her understanding of this group. She turned to Calidus.
“What’s the question?”
“Would you care for a dinner at a restaurant I know after work, Miss Selys? It does a lovely—”
“No. Next!”
Calidus’ face fell. She pointed, and he shuffled off to one side. The Creeping Shadow peered at him, and Calidus winked.
“Respect the Guildmistress. I intend to.”
And Selys Shivertail…got to work.
 
——
 
“And who are you?”
“Ribark. Rank #311.”
“Is that…in terms of your entire Guild or something?”
“No. My batch.”
“Ah. Batch. Is that…how are you trained, exactly?”
The gravelly, disused voice of the young Human man paused for a long moment, and Selys tapped a claw on the counter.
“Answer, please. We’re not made of time around here.”
One of the four other Ranks replied for Ribark. A Drake with terrible scars across her face, ripped up scales revealing pink flesh. It hurt Selys to even look at her, but Slashface—an appropriate name—responded.
“They take us and put us in the training pit. We grow up down there. Fast. Learn to fight, to read, to hide, to—fight. If you survive, you’re a Rank. Then we go where we’re paid for.”
“I see. So that’s where most of the Ranks come from. Anyone here, uh, a volunteer?”
Silence in the rest of the Guild until one of the four Ranks raised a hand. A Drowned Girl with a horrible overgrowth of shell around her face and body—Selys eyed her.
“You signed up?”
She had more of an accent and personality, though the young [Assassin] stood very straight.
“Old Guild, ma’am. Street [Beggar]. I joined up, and they gave me training here. Same rules. You wash out, you die.”
“In First Landing? How many [Beggars] do you have? Er, Cirtle?”
Selys was astounded. The Rank just gave her a careful shrug.
“Plenty of people begging with nobles around. Come there to beg, even. Scraps from the Five Families’re better than scraps elsewhere.”
The [Receptionist] nodded slowly.
“I suppose that’s true. Right, well, thank you. Ribark? Here’s your card. Bronze-rank adventurer. [Warrior]. Be sure to use that longsword, not any tricks, if someone’s watching.”
The young Human man had a longsword, which was what she’d based his fake identity around, though her notes on his file said he was actually a [Singlestrike Killer]—a lower-ranked class than [Assassin], apparently. She imagined he swung that sword hard and fast at whatever he wanted dead, and if it wasn’t, he was in trouble.
For that reason, she handed out a second card to Slashface, who was a [Throatcutter Rank], and to the Drowned Girl, who was just a [Trainee Assassin]. The last member of the group was a Stitch-man, also blank-faced, who had a bow. [Poison Archer].
She’d have taken a [Mage] too, but they weren’t as common, and she had to do this a lot. So Selys smiled.
“The four of you are now a team.”
What? The Ranks had been eyeing their cards, shifting, clearly wondering why they had been called together. Selys gave them a thumbs up.
“I said a team. You’re registered as ‘the Mighty Four’. Ugh. Ew. Who came up with that?”
She turned, and Pilana shrank back; Selys had told her to make up team names, but clearly, the woman hadn’t thought they’d be used. It was Slashface who spoke up.
“As an identity, Guildmistress? I understand.”
She put her hands behind her back and stood in parade rest. Selys waved a claw at her.
“As a team, but also for this request to slay a Mothbear. A job which you’re all going to do. Now.”
This time, the Ranks did glance at each other, and she could tell they weren’t happy. But Selys just leaned over the counter.
“If you object, you can ask to form other teams. But you’re working together. I’m told you can do that.”
“Yes, but…”
But why are we doing adventurers’ jobs? Why a team? Selys’ rationale was simple. They had to maintain their cover stories. They had to, well, stop being faceless automatons. Slashface jerked a thumb at Ribark.
“I tried to slit his throat when we were in training. He gave me one of these.”
She indicated the scars on her face. Selys winced.
“Oh, painful. Well, don’t kill each other. That’s against the rules. Kill each other and I’ll have to discipline you.”
That made zero impression until she added, cheerful.
“Which means a Face gets involved. Or Lord Calidus.”
Silence. Selys glanced at them, then pointed.
“One of our staff will talk you through basic adventuring. Off you go. When you’re done, don’t forget to turn in the bounty for your pay. It’s quite generous; there aren’t many adventurers here now they’ve gone to the New Lands. Monsters are a problem. So you can spend it.”
“…On what?”
That question came from Ribark, and she saw the first spark of interest in them. So there were people in there. Selys just imagined it. Raised since children to become killing machines. Like Antinium.
She had a prop ready for this. Selys slowly pulled out a blue milkshake she’d had made up from Lord Calidus’ manor. He had Amentus Wine, so some of that in a milkshake…wasn’t great.
But Selys needed a damn drink already, and she saw them eying the beads of condensation on the milkshake in the warm day.
“Drinks? Food? I’ll have several shops in town where you can spend your money, and restaurants. You could eat a dozen high-class meals off of that Mothbear kill alone! No visiting other towns until you’ve reached a higher level. And you stop being so, uh, noticeable. You earn more privileges. Then we’ll have other things for sale. Better weapons. Enchanters. Gold pays for all of that. You want an artifact, not that longsword?”
She indicated Ribark’s plain steel longsword, and then she saw a gleam in his eyes. Boys loved swords. Selys smiled.
“That’s going to take a lot of gold and better requests. So hop to it! Next!”
She watched the four Ranks eye each other, then one took the request, pointed, and they actually ran out of the Guild so fast she was impressed. She turned, exhaling.
“Okay, give me another group, Pilana. Lagrisse, what are you doing?”
He peered up from handing a piece of paper over to none other than Qissax, the Naga. The Face took the piece of paper, put it down, and nodded.
“In the open?”
“Yes, sir.”
The Naga turned and slithered away without a word. Then Lagrisse came over. The man wore a very blank expression.
“Sending [Assassins] on official business, Guildmistress Selys.”
“Ah, assassinations. Don’t I review those?”
Selys really didn’t want to. Rather to her relief, the man shook his head.
“Lord Calidus has elected to approve all such…requests. I will dispense them to willing members while you maintain the Guild proper.”
“That could work. At least until I get things running.”
Selys agreed blandly. She still had reservations, but she was doing her best, and Lagrisse seemed to notice. He paused, and the careful man, who was apparently a [Deliverer of Secrets]—a fancy underworld class for what Selys strongly suspected was another version of [Informant]-[Receptionist]—hesitated.
“If I may say so, Guildmistress, you are adapting better to this position than one might expect. I had some reservations that Lord Calidus’ plan would bear fruit.”
“And that I’d be dead or try to run off within a day?”
She smiled sweetly at him, and Lagrisse nodded after a moment.
“With all due respect, this is not a job a regular person could handle.”
“Fortunately for you, I worked under Tekshia Shivertail with real adventurers. And I’ve handled the Antinium. There’s not much difference between them and the Ranks.”
That comment made Lagrisse pause, but he nodded again after a second.
“They are singularly focused after coming from Chandrar. Introducing them to vices tends to—acclimatize them. A fact Lord Calidus apparently picked up on his own. Providing them with the services of this town is a good idea.”
“Any other tips?”
He hesitated, and Selys offered him a toothy smile.
“From what Lord Calidus says, we don’t have long until this nightmare scenario falls apart. You might be waiting for a ‘proper’ Guildmaster who’s an [Assassin], but I’ve been counting the Faces, and not many of them seem to be over Level 40. Nor do I think you might like who takes the throne. I’m lower-level, new, but I can make it work. If you support me. Fancy wagering you’ll survive the next big fight?”
That decided the man. He leaned over, and she felt silence engulf her a moment.
“The Assassin’s Guild is always political. Once the Faces don’t think the Ranks will rise up, they’ll fight over the best contracts, take sides. Even if they know there’s punishment, they have tempers and kill each other. The Guildmaster ruled by fear and having the best or majority of Faces on his side. You’ll need to do the same or convince them you’re better left alive.”
Her scales crawled, but Selys just sighed. She stepped out of his Skill, to Lagrisse’s surprise, and spoke, voice natural, but so everyone listening could hear, and she just bet they could hear.
“Politics? Please, I told you, I worked at the Adventurer’s Guild. So long as no one knifes me, I’ll let the best, most clever, or luckiest rise to the top and keep everyone earning gold and levelling. That’s my job.”
Another grin, as fearless as she could manage, and she thought the [Deliverer of Secrets] actually gave her a respectful look.
“Just as you say, Guildmistress.”
Selys Shivertail smiled and cracked her fingers. She could do it! She beckoned for a new group of Ranks as Calidus Reinhart strolled back in to check on the place. She was about to ask him about her pay when she saw eight more of the Ranks walk in.
These had black veils over their face, all-black clothing with a stylized dagger plunging through a rose’s stem written in silver thread on their, well, classic [Assassin]’s outfits. Selys raised her eyebrows as their heads swivelled the room.
“Uniforms? I don’t think that’ll work, Lord Calidus. What happened to the cover stories?”
Lord Calidus frowned at her, then turned to the eight figures. His face went blank, then he threw himself towards a table of Ranks. She blinked and heard a clicking sound. Then a tft.
Something hit her in the chest. Selys blinked down at a feathered dart sticking out of a glowing barrier as one of her rings flashed.
“Oh n—”
A throwing dagger caught her in the shoulder as Lagrisse’s eyes went round. He ducked, and the [Assassins] shot Lord Calidus a second before Losmere appeared and beheaded one. She shouted.
“Enemy [Assassins]!”
Selys really would have liked to get up—but she realized the dagger was poisoned. She lay there as Pilana cowered and screamed, white-faced, and the Guild burst into shouting. Then Selys Shivertail realized that despite her best efforts, she couldn’t deny her job being a tad bit more complicated than she wanted.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was awake before he closed his eyes. Sadly, his mind wouldn’t turn off despite the pain, and he really objected to that.
[Genius of Sloth]. He wished he hadn’t lost his ability to turn his mind off with drinks, but since he did have his class, he used his Skills—especially when he was in mortal danger.
[Brilliant Insight (Weekly)]…no, no need for that. [Move Reality Like Chess]? Not applicable yet. [Calculable Insight: Copy Skill (Intellect)]…no. Just [Store Intellect]. Calidus thought of his mind not like a well holding water; that was too boring.
Rather, he imagined it like Zeomtoril’s experiments with gravity. Apparently, everything attracted each other, so intellect was unto an orb in Calidus’ mind. An ever-growing orb that grew and grew—until he reached out and siphoned a bit he had put away.
Not that intellect could be used in the same basic sense of ‘get smarter’. That, too, didn’t make sense to Calidus. Zeomtoril was a smart man, and he gambled his wealth and couldn’t hold down a relationship.
Intellect could make a mind faster. It could let you make inferences and jump to conclusions in less time. Like how higher-class Golems could perform a mental task quicker.
That was what Calidus did now. He called it ‘mind speeding’, where he played out scenarios and ideas in a fraction of the time it would normally take. He used it to beat Zeomtoril at chess. Now?
Why was I shot? Ranks with uniforms on. Can’t have been a rebellion already; the Ranks wouldn’t pay for insignia.
Stupid aesthetic. Like someone’s advertising they’re—
Oh no.
Has to be. In which case, they know about…? Word spreads. Internal spy? Traitor? Or—terrible suspicion—
Grandfather? Calidus thought about it. He concluded he might be right. In which case…he really hoped Selys was alive. What to do about it? Well, for one—
 
——
 
“…scrying orb. Need information first. Got to—wonder if I have a shot. Channel 2. Mm. Such a lovely Drake.”
Losmere thought it was a good sign Calidus Reinhart was talking to himself. She’d never actually seen someone talk in their sleep like he was, but as she watched him healing and Zeomtoril, sweating, finish applying the antidote, his wounds closed. She spoke.
“Calidus. Lord Calidus—are you—”
He sat up, eyes closed, and the [Polymath] leapt back with an oath.
“Undead! Und—”
Calidus opened his eyes.
“Oh shut up, Zeomtoril. Losmere! I’m so delighted not to be dead. Is it a rival Guild or just the south’s Guild objecting to us? Or Terandria muscling in?”
She opened her mouth and was reminded of why Lord Calidus had been chosen as Guildmaster.
“You knew?”
He winced as he glanced down at the bandages over his chest that had been keeping him alive before Zeomtoril could apply an antidote and a costly potion.
“No, but it was obvious. Who puts uniforms on an [Assassin]? Someone who wants to advertise they’re back. I think it’s tacky. A dagger stabbing through a rose? Please, it has to be a rival. The only question is who approved and funded them? Is Selys dead? How many did we lose? Also—”
He felt at his chest.
“…So that’s how it feels to be shot in the chest with a crossbow. I can’t say I wanted to know. I’m rather pleased to have so many anti-poison experts around me.”
He got up cheerfully, then his face discolored. Losmere had to grab Calidus to support him. He was weak; she spoke quickly.
“The attackers are dead. Sixty went after various members of the Guild. Faces and you and the Drake. I don’t know if she’s alive—we were chasing down the enemy Ranks—”
Calidus swore as she helped him sit.
“Well, find out or we’re in trouble! She’s important, damn it! And Zeomtoril, speaking stone! The one in my rooms, in the black box!”
“I knew it! I’m dead! I should have fled! I’m in a war between [Assassins]—”
The old man wailed until Calidus threw a shoe at him. Then the [Lord] lay there, panting, until Losmere returned to tell him Selys Shivertail was alive.
“She’s swearing a storm, but one of her rings was able to neutralize the poisons.”
“Interesting. I saw one of the Arrowcatch Rings go off, but who carries those and anti-poison rings? Most have a convenience ring like cooling or illusions or something.”
“Apparently, she saw her friend die to poison and invested.”
Calidus felt at his chest again.
“Smart. Or rather, connected. Erin Solstice once more…ah, there’s the speaking stone.”
He flipped open the black box, snagged the expensive speaking stone, and Losmere inhaled sharply. It was a black Bloodonyx with swirling depths and a Truegold holder, and she recognized it. The last Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild had carried it, and it spoke to the man who could command them. It had once been used to contact Magnolia Reinhart. Now…
“Grandfather Regis! Quick question—did you start a second Assassin’s Guild and order them to murder me? Because I really wish you’d had me killed in my sleep!”
Calidus barked into the stone. He paused.
“Oh, he’s not there, is he? Well, I suspect the old bastard’s listening in because he’s just figured out what’s going on and the mistake he’s made. SO IF I AM SHOUTING, GRANDFATHER, I WAS JUST SHOT. AND IF IT IS JUST YOU THERE, MAID THEMEKE, I DO APOLOGIZE, BUT I AM VENTING A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF SPLEEN, ASSUMING I HAVE ANY LEFT.”
He screamed, red-faced, into the speaking stone, and after he inhaled for breath, there was a voice.
“Calidus. Are you in private?”
“GRANDFATHER, YOU ARE AN IDIOT—”
The speaking stone hung up. Calidus stared at it. Then handed it to Zeomtoril.
“Is there an outhouse in use around here? Wait until he picks back up and toss it down there, would you?”
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart never apologized. Reinharts were bad at it, but Calidus’ ghostly grandfather probably hadn’t learned how to acknowledge he was wrong before dying. He did own up to what Calidus had already figured out.
“You intimated that you were unable to do your job, Calidus.”
“I have never intimated with any image of you, Grandfather. I shrivel to even imagine you. You thought the best answer to me asking for help was to start a second Guild?”
Calidus was annoyed, mostly because he saw Regis’ line of logic and thought it was flawed. It was classic conman behavior. Why bother with one bad plan when you could organize two?
It made no sense to him. Doubling a bad bet caused twice as many problems, but Regis refused to take anything lying down.
“Do not lecture me, boy. I did not order the other Guildmaster to assassinate you. That was overstepping.”
“Oh, you didn’t expect them to want to eradicate competition? Who is this Guildmaster, anyways?”
“A member of my organization.”
So that meant the Circle of Thorns. Wonderful, he’d appointed some idiot to the post. Calidus wished he’d given a name. Names meant someone was easy to track down and kill, but Regis had clearly realized this was a war.
“I intended to have one Guild in the end. Whoever is triumphant will have both levels and the ferocity Izril requires.”
“Or they’ll just be the biggest bully around. The old ‘survival of the fittest’ rule never made sense to me given the waistline of most [Kings] of Terandria, Grandfather. If you’re washing your hands of me—”
“I am not having you killed.”
Regis sounded a bit stressed, which in his case meant testy. He was probably worried Calidus would start screaming to everyone—he spoke quickly.
“I shall inform your counterpart that you are off-limits. This is a war between your [Assassins]. The same to you; execute the other [Guildmaster] and there shall be consequences.”
“Oh, more than being shot, Grandfather?”
Calidus was all sarcasm and snideness. Regis snapped back.
“I am indulging your injuries, boy. Do not test me.”
“Then give me more than just lip service, Grandf—ugh, I need to choose my words better. Terribly imagery. Oh, is one of your [Maids] laughing?”
Calidus brightened up. He’d tested his humor and wit on making them laugh whenever he had popped down to visit Regis. The old ghost ground his teeth together.
“What do you want? I will humor you.”
“Contact with whomever sells you [Assassins] in Roshal. More funding; if it’s a war where you want two hands fighting each other, then a war you’ll get. Pay me, damnit. Also, my own Guildmistress, Selys Shivertail, off-limits.”
“Who? Very well. Now, level or—”
Calidus walked into the bathroom and peed as noisily as he could. Then he sighed. Wonderful.
 
——
 
He didn’t tell Selys it was Regis; it was too much to explain, and the very upset Drake was literally hissing in the [Healer]’s bed. He ordered a healing potion be given to her; it was now more than clear he needed her.
“It’s a rival Assassin’s Guild. The idiot who came up with the concept clearly thought one side would win and absorb the other.”
“Who…has the gold to throw around to fund two Assassin’s Guilds?”
He sighed.
“I know. All that money could have been spent on other delightful things. But there is always money around rich idiots, and the Five Families abound for both. So! We need intelligence on who we’re facing, which Faces they have, and bounties on enemy Ranks. They’ll be attacking our people. Up, up!”
He chivvied Selys out of bed, or tried to, when a grey rat tried to bite him. Calidus caught the rat.
“Oh yes, your pets. Hello there! Have a piece of brie.”
He handed Rhata some cheese, and the white rat squeaked as Calidus put Rhata on Selys’ head. She stared up at him.
“I was just hit by a throwing dagger—”
“You’ll live. We’re all going to die if we don’t win this war. So—up.”
He held out a hand, and she groaned as he helped her stand. Selys hissed as she limped out of the healer’s room. When they entered the Adventurer’s Guild proper, both stopped.
All the Faces and the Ranks were there, waiting for Calidus and Selys. They looked like still shadows, many masked, but—uncertain. Calidus felt it. He smiled tightly.
“Well, we have unity, at least. Nothing like all of us being a target for some good, old-fashioned community.”
Assuming they think we have a shot. He and Selys locked eyes, and she nodded as she grabbed the counter and began giving orders. Calidus stood there as news began coming in, and they pumped informants for intelligence.
He didn’t like what he found.
 
——
 
Once you started looking, Lagrisse found the other Assassin’s Guild fast. It wasn’t like they were hiding that well.
“They are calling themselves the Assassins of Izril’s Roses. Here is a list of the Faces they are advertising working for them.”
“Terrible name. What happened to just the ‘Guild’? And advertising? Oh, wonderful, the idiot in charge thinks this is all cloaks and daggers, literally.”
No attempt at hiding. Calidus rubbed at his face. Losmere, who was sitting with them, paled as she read the names.
“They have Windblade? And Mantiz?”
“I take it those are Faces from the old Guild?”
Selys didn’t like how nervous the [Assassin] appeared. Losmere licked her lips.
“Windblade was retired. They must have found him and called him out of hiding. He’s a [Blademaster]. His ability is—”
“To cut the air with his sword, yes, yes. And I assumed Mantiz is some dagger-wielding woman? Judging by your reaction, they’re higher level than you are. Do we have equal membership?”
Losmere seemed quite offended by Calidus and Selys’ unwillingness to treat her like a being of myth. She shifted, hands falling to her own daggers.
“We are all Faces. Those two are simply…strong amongst us, yes.”
“Stronger than you because you’re a trainer. Don’t glare at me, Losmere. And their Ranks?”
“…Same as ours. A second shipment of them must have been paid for, in which case, their training and levels should be the same.”
Losmere had to admit the bad news. Calidus wiped some blood from his cheek.
“I’ll ask about them and call Roshal. Miss Selys?”
“I don’t know how to fight other Ranks. I assume they’re going to just—come here and start killing our members?”
Selys was still rubbing at her shoulder. Losmere nodded tightly.
“When the north and south have warred, it tends to go that way. One finds the base of another and sends in the Ranks and Faces until the other side flees or fights them off. Then they intercept each other. Use informants and gain the loyalty of gangs until one finds another base.”
Bleeding each other dry of members. Only in this case, Calidus’ base had already been found. Selys cursed.
“Well in that case—teams, get over here!”
She began calling them over and giving them orders.
“New jobs. You’re on patrol and anti-assassin duty. Memorize each other’s faces. We’ll do callsigns and ways of identifying each other. But stick to your teams!”
That was the only thing she could think of; keeping the Ranks together instead of individual might mean they had a chance. Selys pointed to the Guild.
“We’ll get you whistles or horns. If you run into enemies, sound the alarm and a Face will defend you. Or get back here, got it?”
“We can’t just stay here and defend. We have to find them and kill their members!”
Losmere objected. Selys gave her a narked glance.
“Unless you have more sources of information, we have no idea where they are, do we?”
She twisted around to ask Calidus, but he had already hurried off. It was Lagrisse who shook his head, and he was troubled.
“We do not. And if I may say so, Guildmistress? I did wonder why not all of my co-workers were here. It felt like far too few had arrived, even given the bases destroyed. If they are working for the other Guild…”
“Are they better than you?”
Lagrisse licked his lips.
“There were senior members in information-gathering and denial, but I don’t know if they survived. If they did, locating their bases might be…difficult. Not many Gangs would want to sell out the Assassin’s Guild, even to a second one. For fear of what might happen.”
Wonderful. Selys drummed her claws on the table. Then she frowned at Lagrisse.
“Wait a second. But this other Guild is very noticeable, yes?”
“Oh yes, they’re advertising their services. Little black cards were found on nobles’ pillows, I gather. The Gangs were made aware that the Assassin’s Guild services were being offered once more.”
Whoever this second Guild was, they didn’t really want secrecy, they wanted to replace the old one in a hurry. Selys thought that was a stupid move; didn’t Lord Tyrion Veltras want them all dead along with a lot of nobles? But if the person in charge thought they had the backing of one of the Five Families or something—she had wondered why Lord Calidus was part of this.
Her eyes narrowed as she thought.
“I might not know how to deal with rival [Assassins], but I’ve been told about Guilds warring with each other before. This second Guild—they’re already taking contracts?”
“A number of high-profile deaths have been reported, Guildmistress. And I observe—some of the orders given to Lord Calidus were also carried out. Not by our members.”
For the first time, Lagrisse showed Selys a list of people to be murdered, and she felt a chill on her scales, because it was such a banal list.
Just names of people and places. A headshot of them, sometimes, or a description.
A [Merchant] in Invrisil. A young man in Thornvale. A…she pushed the papers back, feeling sick. Took a breath.
“Why do they want them dead?”
“The clients do not often say. In this case? I believe debts. This young man won the hand of a [Lady] over other suitors. This [Emperor] is wanted dead by multiple people, and as for the [Princess], the same—”
Selys’ eyes opened. Then she snatched the papers back.
“What?”
Laken Godart and Lyonette du Marquin were on the list. Both were marked with high, high bounties, and Selys’ blood ran cold.
 
Laken Godart, Riverfarm.
Lyonette du Marquin, Liscor.
 
She stared up at Lagrisse, and he clarified unhelpfully.
“Lord Calidus was ordered to sabotage the [Princess] as well, but declined to kill her for the attention it would attract. The same for the [Emperor]. He can refuse requests. He, ah, apparently has decided any lady he deems too attractive should not be a target of assassinations.”
Losmere rolled her eyes, but Selys was still having trouble breathing. That didn’t make her feel any better. Even if Calidus didn’t have them on a list, the second Guild—
Wait. Waitwaitwait. She inhaled suddenly, and color flooded back into her cheeks. She grabbed the list.
“Hold on, if this other Guild is taking all the requests, they’re going after everyone here, aren’t they?”
“Yes, Guildmistress.”
Losmere and Lagrisse blinked at Selys as her tail suddenly wagged, and she smiled. Her eyes rose.
“In that case, I have a bounty to post—right now.”
“On who?”
She stabbed a claw onto Lyonette’s face.
“Lyonette du Marquin. Alive.”
Neither man nor woman understood until Selys turned to them.
“Post a bounty right now, Lagrisse, and get me a list of stealthy Ranks or Faces! I want her alive and every [Assassin] who goes after Lyonette—dead.”
“You want us to protect—”
“Isn’t that what [Assassins] do sometimes? Plus, think about it! We know who this other Guild wants to kill. How do we find their members and take them out?”
Losmere began nodding slowly, and Lagrisse’s eyes lit up.
“We have done this against the south before, Guildmistress. Not in recent memory, since Magnolia Reinhart took over and tensions between north and south eased. Not since before the First Antinium War. I’ll have to find the old methods—”
“Do it! But get me counter-bounties—now!”
Selys shouted. She rose to her feet and felt unaccountably relieved. She didn’t want Lyonette dead, or Laken. Lyonette was a Todi-stealing bitch and monstrous woman who shouldn’t be raising Mrsha and was part of the problems of the inn—
But I’m not seeing you dead. I’m doing this because I’m a better person than you are. And because you’d do this for me, I suppose.
Selys took a shaky breath. Then—she grimly began giving orders. Within the day, she began logging the first members of her Guild coming in with wounds—or not at all.
Ranks fighting other Ranks hiding in the forest. Two dead, one who came in, sat down, and had a tourniquet they’d had to tie onto the stump of an arm with their teeth. She sent two squads out to guard Laken.
Neither one came back. Later, Lagrisse delivered a report; no less than forty [Assassins] dead in the Unseen Empire, all slaughtered by Laken Godart’s protectors. Half pecked to death by crows.
She pulled the Ranks back from entering the Unseen Empire and put them on interception instead. And watched them leave and come in. Sent them out and counted who survived.
That—
That was like her old job.
 
[Experienced Receptionist Level 27!]
[Experienced Receptionist → Vice Guildmistress Level 25!]
[Vice Guildmistress Level 25!]
[Skill – Assign Basic Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Assign Rare Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Assign Heroic Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Conditional Bounty (Quests) Obtained!]
[Skill – Inheritance: Flicker of Talent (Clawfighting) Obtained!]
[Skill – Evasive Flip Obtained!]
[Skill – Enforce Orders Obtained!]
 
“Vice Guildmistress? Vice?”
She was entirely upset.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart called Roshal, a novelty. He didn’t know you could just ring them up, but they had a Mage’s Guild, and they transferred him to the Slaver’s Guild where a very polite, nay, sultry woman asked why he was calling.
“Would you like to report a lost [Slave], purchase one, or—”
“Calidus Reinhart calling on behalf of Regis Reinhart.”
“Excuse me, sir?”
“Calidus Reinhart by the authority of Regis Reinhart.”
“Is this in connection w—”
“Calidus Reinhart, nephew of Regis Reinhart.”
He repeated himself sixteen times, varying the volume and trying accents on until they connected him to the right person. Another smooth-voiced man.
“Lord Reinhart. I understand you have an inquiry into the members of our [Assassin] program?”
“I have a bunch of rival Ranks running around, and I want to know if mine are going to turncoat.”
Calidus didn’t care for all this oily pomp and pseudo-elegance. It was like a bad makeup job over what the Slavers of Roshal were, and he had taken a close enough look. He was not impressed by the man, who responded after a second.
“I have been apprised of the situation, Lord Calidus, and I deeply regret the incident. We, of course, simply cater to our clients who have the authority to purchase from us. It is a very select roster, and any complications of this nature are the result of client-error, not the training—”
“You don’t care. I bet you lot popped champagne when you realized you were going to sell twice as many [Assassins]. If you keep giving me lip, I’ll have you killed.”
A pause.
“Lord Reinhart, I am—”
“You gave me your name, and you work for the Slaver’s Guild. I have hundreds of Ranks. Answer my questions.”
Calidus took a draft of wine. You had to find some perks in a miserable day. After a moment, the man, sounding rather disgruntled, spoke. A touch faster.
“—The Ranks are highly trained in our programs to avoid disobedience. Some may shake their conditioning, which is inevitable in any batch, but they are heavily disinclined to turncoat unless they believe the odds are against them.”
“So no suicide missions. Understood.”
“Well, they are highly motivated. If you have observed their work in Izril, you understand there are quite a number of tasks they can be ordered to perform. Just not ones without any possibility of survival. The more you reward them—”
Less fun, again. Calidus pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Right, right. You’ve brainwashed them so well. Hear me applauding?”
“…I don’t hear anything, Lord Calid—”
“I’m asking if there’s a way to motivate them beyond whatever you’ve done to them.”
Right now the two Guilds were fighting each other. Calidus had done a bit of that, organizing the squads Selys had sent into ambushes, giving them advantages in a tactical sense. It was vaguely fun, but he was no commander, and his intelligence didn’t pay off that well.
What he needed was a strategic victory. He waited as the trainer or [Slave Master] considered the question.
“Motivating the Ranks? They will do any job you set them to, Lord Calidus. Motivating them beyond a high bounty, you mean?”
“Yes. Enthusiasm. Commitment to the job! They’re not [Slaves], so I can’t free them. Is there anything? Did you starve them for vegetables when you locked them in a pit and had them kill each other or something with your oh so impressive training regime?”
The other man was getting annoyed, but he tried to sound polite.
“I’m afraid, Lord Calidus, that our Ranks deliver their utmost already. There is no…secret motivating factor I could name. If you would like to buy more, that is surely the best way to overcome a potential adversary.”
Calidus rolled his eyes into his head.
“Wonderful. So your answer after wasting my time is ‘buy more [Assassins]’, the same answer you gave my counterpart.”
“Roshal is neutral in its dealings with—”
“How’s the port? Still dusty?”
Dead silence for a moment.
“Lord Calidus, with all due respect, the trauma inflicted upon Lailight Scintillation is no laughing matter. The Slaver’s Guild is not without redress to customers who—”
“Your customer is old Regis Reinhart. I’m his grandson. The old fogey’s put me in charge of all of this so you’re going to deal with all my comments and smile because no one likes you. That’s why you have to talk to all the clients. If you were good at your job, you’d be training [Assassins]. If you were powerful, you’d make someone else do this. Also, your current training regime and [Slave Masters] are substandard.”
“—subst—”
“I checked your records, and you delivered 433 Ranks in one ‘batch’. Historically, you’ve offered over seven hundred. Your methods are sloppy. I’m going to place another damn order because I have to, but I want you to write this down and report it to your superiors. They are failing my expectations. Which were low! But if you’ve gone from, what, let’s call it a 70% graduation rate to barely 40%? Sloppy. Embarrassing, really. All this time being the premier [Assassin] distributor because Germina’s out of the game and the other nations have lost their production has let standards lapse. They’re not even high-level. All but twenty were under Level 20. It used to be you’d get a few Level 30s in a batch! What am I even paying for?”
Calidus kept ranting into the speaking stone as the man on the other end went silent, and he was trying to work in a few personally hurtful comments as he tried to get someone to look up a few details on anyone whose feelings he could hurt.
Right up until someone interrupted his rant. A new voice took over the speaking stone. Well, there was a voice, an exclamation, then a shout of muffled pain and sobbing and then…Calidus halted, and someone spoke.
“You are, of course, correct. Four hundred? I could care less how many are sent, but under Level 20? Find me who is in charge of the program. Flay them and hang them up as an example.”
Another muffled voice.
“Yes, Lord.”
Calidus paused a second, then spoke.
“Oh good, management. And you would be?”
“Lord Pazeral. I quite agree with your objections, foreign Lord. I shall personally see our next batch of Ranks is acceptable. And throw in a gift or two. I can sense you are a man of exquisite taste.”
“I do love many a lady’s bosoms. And posteriors. Why must one choose?”
Calidus joked, and there was a laugh.
“Quite! I myself share the same opinions. There are men of good humor in this dreary world. Rest assured, I will be fixing matters—”
The ‘fixing’ comment came with a scream and more sobbing. Calidus almost heard this Lord Pazeral pulling the blade out of the man he’d stabbed and plunging it back in. He sighed.
“…Well, I’ll leave you to it. I don’t suppose you offer bulk discounts?”
Lord Pazeral laughed again at that, so Calidus joined in and noticed he didn’t get any damn discounts. Scary masters of Roshal or not—they were all damn salespeople at heart. As in they sold people.
He stomped off and hoped Selys had a better idea for how to resolve things.
As a matter of fact…she did. At least, he thought it was worth a shot since he was going crazy.
 
——
 
The reason that Selys Shivertail was going to survive was because she was practical. Not as intelligent, not as charming as some people. She fancied she had decent amounts of all that, but she had to admit, Drassi had more charisma.
Someone like Olesm was a bit smarter, at least at his specialty. Selys could admit that too, for all her ego. But she had a power no one else had: practicality.
She’d always been level-headed. Grounded. From the day she’d seen a confused Human walk in, Selys had liked Erin’s weirdness, fumbling for magic which she had learned how to create, but she’d needed Selys around.
Someone who knew how gravity worked, who understood the rules. Take their first meeting for instance. Erin sometimes liked to tell it, but she always omitted a key detail. She’d talk about how Selys helped her figure things out, taught her a bit about money, gave her advice—but never that a Gnoll adventurer had taken objection to her and chased her out of the Guild.
Selys had, of course, tried to stick up for Erin, but she hadn’t stopped the Bronze-ranker from running Erin off. He’d been looking for someone to push around, and Erin had stunk, apparently.
Selys had bawled the idiot out after, and Tekshia had told the adventurer to knock it off, but that was what Erin seemed to have forgotten. Or just never said. And Selys wasn’t embarrassed about it.
It was just her practicality. You did what you could, but you didn’t take excessive risks unless it mattered. Like Pisces; she’d worked on her grandmother, gotten the [Necromancer] in with the Guild subtly. Erin had tried it with her Goblins, and she had thrown them in the face of Liscor again and again. It still hadn’t worked. True, some could go around the city and not be tossed out, but only because everyone knew she’d be there, throwing acid jars if someone mistreated them.
Nothing changed in any real way. When Erin was gone for good, Goblins wouldn’t be welcome in Liscor anymore. Now, if enough people were convinced to like Goblins over years, maybe…but her method was all wrong. Selys would have put Goblins in trenchcoats and given them hats and illusion spells. The Watch might have known, but that would have solved most issues.
She’d even suggested it to Erin once, and the [Innkeeper] had been upset about having to ‘hide’ Goblins. And you know what? Also fine, at least at the time. Someone had to be the idealist. Selys was the practical one who knew what she could do, when to speak up, and when it was pointless.
She could guard her heart, unlike Erin’s, which bled everywhere especially when someone shot it with crossbow bolts. So that was why Selys was going to survive Calidus’ Assassin’s Guild as [Vice Guildmistress], even with a war between [Assassins].
You know how?
She didn’t let herself care when they died. The Adventurer’s Guild in Isbeut had fake windows that looked open, but let no one actually see inside. A chance visitor would see a small common room staffed by Pilana, but all the real action, and [Assassins], went through the back doors.
The living…and the dead. Apparently, it was standard to collect [Assassin] corpses. Lagrisse explained it to Selys.
“The bodies of fallen [Assassins], even the Ranks, may contain useful items or elements. Their gear, at least, should be recycled. The Guild should not be seen to fail, or at least, leave bodies behind. Bodies can be used in identification or tracking Skills.”
She kept staring down at the bloody Drake with arrows through both eyes. Precision shots. The broken black fletching was horrific—and a message. Someone had shot the Rank on patrol and left them there to show Calidus’ Guild exactly how outmatched they were.
The blood was staining a white linen shroud. Selys tugged the cloth over their face and saw how the broken arrowshafts stood up. Then she forced herself to turn, businesslike, to her staff. The Ranks were milling about, sharpening blades, waiting to go on more adventurer requests or be assigned to counter the enemy [Assassins]. So casual for people at war.
Antinium. You didn’t cry for Soldiers or Workers who died. Oh, sure, you felt bad, but unless it was one you knew…Selys didn’t feel bad. She just folded her arms.
“Elements? What are the Ranks, monsters? We carve them up for parts?”
“Close, Guildmistress. Galas muscle from higher-levels, blood—for toxins or antidotes, given how many of the Ranks gain immunities—and their bones can be used to make undead.”
“Really? Undead?”
Selys’ eyes bounced up and down. Lagrisse nodded. He seemed vaguely amused by this war. He had gone from understanding the odds on them all surviving were now low to a weird acceptance. The other Guild had a lot of staff and powerful former members. Faces. But because of that, he was one of the top dogs in Calidus’ Guild, and he seemed to think the tradeoff was worth it. If they lived.
“We used to have undead we would deploy, like summoned monsters.”
“What happened to them?”
“The Necromancer. I understand he summoned all the undead in the Guild’s vaults and made use of them. He slaughtered a number of Faces sent against him. Eventually, the Guild refused to take requests for him. There are a number of individuals with extant bounties, like the King of Destruction, that only a Face can even access. Or the Guildmaster. Few Faces consider such bounties unless they wish to win gold or prestige.”
“I think Calidus gave me some of those. There’s some retired Archmage south of the High Passes that Magnolia Reinhart wants killed, right?”
The man paused, and the [Deliverer of Secrets]’ fingers twitched.
“I…wouldn’t know about such a bounty. Fascinating. The Guild took it?”
“It’s a lot of gold. I’ll show you my files once this mess is over. Back to the undead. I understand why we stopped. Anti-[Necromancer] sentiment. Let’s start doing that again. Can we?”
Lagrisse thought about it, tilting his head. He never said ‘no’. Just…
“We lack for [Necromancers], Guildmistress. As well as holding areas. We could devote time to the project—”
“Egh. Put it in my long-term projects bin. Everything requires setup.”
“Most functions of the Guild do, sadly. The same for our tamed beasts and even training areas. Losmere is a fine instructor, and the presence of Polymath Zeomtoril has allowed us a decent variety of poisons, but the other Guild seems to have a number of our experts.”
Hence the corpses that kept coming in. Selys glanced at the dead body again; it was being carried by a pale-faced pair of staff towards a cold room with preservation spells.
The fourteenth in three days. No Adventurer’s Guild except one fighting off a literal dungeon or something had this kind of turnover. But they had hundreds of Ranks.
So it was not ideal, but emotionally? Fine. Selys went stalking back to her desk.
“What was this guy—that was a guy, right?—doing away from his squad? I told them to stick together! This is what happens without teamwork!”
She slammed a fist down on the counter, and the Ranks listened to her. They always listened to her, another thing she liked. Bronze-rankers were flighty, annoying—the Ranks obeyed.
Not perfectly. She got the sense that they did some things reluctantly, but her job was to win an edge. So Selys steepled her claws and spoke.
“Put five squads on patrol. No, make it three. Five squads on backup in hiding. Have them build hideouts in the forest in these areas.”
She stabbed several sections of the map so they were spaced out.
“How’s our response time on interception requests?”
Interception requests—her name for countering the other Guild by sending their [Assassins] to murder the killers. Lagrisse hesitated.
“It could be faster, Guildmistress. Ranks are not always present as a squad. They also require horses and supplies—”
“Okay, that’s a priority. Get someone from the Hostler’s Guild and as many darn horses as we can buy! As for food…hmm.”
Selys got up and strode out from behind her desk. She plucked something up as she came. A black card with a golden stamp of color along with her name on it.
A Merchant’s Guild card, the kind few people in this world had. Nigh-unlimited funds thanks to Calidus Reinhart and whomever was ordering him about. Selys smiled.
She liked this. Not the fear of death or being coerced into this, but this? Absolutely.
 
——
 
Speak and it would be done. People who listened to her. Even the ability to do stupid things like hand Pilana two rats and tell her to take them to every restaurant in the town.
“Which cook has the best food, you two? And cooks at good speed?”
Rhata had tomato sauce on her nose. She and Haldagaz nibbled at a name on the page, and Selys smiled.
“Itmont’s Eats it is. Sounds like a bad restaurant, but if you two liked it—”
“Guildmistress, are you really trusting rats?”
Pilana was horrified, but Selys flapped a claw at her.
“They’re as smart as some cats I know. And a bee. Also, they’re pickier than you think after so long touring the north. Hire the [Cook]; he delivers to the Adventurer’s Guild. And Runner’s Guild. Put a menu in place and run orders…better yet, just have a Street Runner or one of their apprentice chefs use a bag of holding to deliver the food hot and in bulk. Anyone who finishes a request gets a free meal.”
If the Ranks were like basic Antinium, she thought that would motivate them. Actually, that wasn’t a bad idea. Selys flashed her card at Pilana.
“Also, spin off part of the inner common room and make it plush. Couches, classy tables, upholstery—just one section.”
“Yes, Guildmistress.”
“I’ll do the horses. C’mon, Rhata, Haldagaz.”
They climbed up onto her shoulder, squeaking as she strode off. Haldagaz didn’t seem as happy by all these changes, but Rhata was full and content. And Selys—
 
——
 
“What do you mean you can’t get us enough horses?”
“I don’t got any. And holding a dagger to my throat won’t make ‘em appear!”
Like everyone else in Isbeut, the local representative of the Hostler’s Guild understood the [Assassins] were here and in charge. But the sandy-haired teen had a point, so Selys waved at Lagrisse. He withdrew the dagger.
She supposed even the staff of the Guild could kill. Selys smiled at him.
“I’m sure Lagrisse only thought you were being stubborn. Explain it to me?”
She understood the problem at once as the shaken [Horse Handler] told her.
“Horses come and go ‘cause we rent ‘em out. We can blacklist anyone we want and ask for more horses from the major Guilds, but only as many as our town needs. And as much as our stables can hold. How’d it gonna look if I ask for two hundred racers for this place? If they don’t laugh at me, someone’ll ask questions. Then I get killed for doin’ what you want.”
He braced, cringing, as the scary Drake pursed her lips, but Selys just smiled at him.
“Fairly explained, Master…?”
“It’s just Hornbel. Master Azat did a runner when the [Assassins] appeared. Buried him last week.”
“Ah. Well, we’re in the same boat here. I need to get the [Assassins] horses. I’ll pay for the stables to be expanded. But work with me here, Hornbel. How do we get more horses without attracting suspicion?”
“…Buy ‘em?”
“But if not from the Hostler’s Guild—”
The boy shook his head rapidly.
“No, I just mean buy them. Not rent them or have them sent. If Lord Calidus buys horses and lets us use them, it makes sense. Nobles always do crackbrained things like that.”
Selys clicked her claws together. See? And Lagrisse was just going to threaten the boy. You simply needed to talk to people.
“Perfect! Then who’s selling horses that we can make a purchase from?”
The kid and Lagrisse conferred and offered Selys a list. She grimaced as she ran down the locations; Jecrass or another major horsebreeder was too far. Then she paused, tapped a name on the list.
“…This one.”
“You’re sure, Guildmistress? It might attract some attention—”
“I’m sure. I have an instinct for important things. Send for horses from House Walchaís at once. I don’t care if there’s a blockade or whatever’s going on with Magnolia.”
She’d met Bethal Walchaís. The woman had always ridden excellent horses, and she was part of that connection that Selys and most Liscorians had learned to observe. The inn.
She sighed.
It always came back to the inn.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was fascinated by The Wandering Inn, which it seemed like he’d just found out about, a year behind everyone else. That and Liscor.
Selys didn’t want to talk about either, but he was her boss…and he insisted.
“Aunt Magnolia’s been trying to kill Bethal for a while now. No idea why; they were best friends. It’s a tricky proposition, Selys.”
“That’s Miss Selys or Guildmistress to you, Lord Calidus. And it’s simple. Her lands are the closest, and if she’s under some kind of embargo, she’ll be desperate for coin. Or do we have four months for a Jecrass shipment?”
Calidus winced.
“My calculations say we’re losing at about a 6% greater attrition rate compared to our rivals. So…no. House Walchaís it is. We need a good cover story, though. Even if her best people aren’t there, Aunt Magnolia is sharp. And [Healers].”
Apparently, they were losing a lot of Ranks to more than just death in combat. Selys frowned.
“They’re pretty good at stitching themselves back up. Remember that one who came in with her leg cut off? She tied off the artery and hopped back in here.”
A Drathian, or someone who’d looked a bit like Ryoka, although she’d been far more petite and not barefoot. Calidus sighed.
“She’s dead.”
“Oh. Um—damn. Poison?”
“Nope. Blood loss. She hopped back on pure adrenaline, lay down, and never got back up. The Ranks do know how to perform basic first aid, but when they’re badly hurt, they need a good [Healer], not some idiot who slaps a poultice on everything. Got one?”
“Can we kidnap the Healer of Tenbault? Or a [Mage] who can cast [Restoration]?”
Calidus shook his head.
“Anyone who can do that is too important to just grab. Damn. Well, add it to your list.”
She scowled at him. Calidus just beamed at Selys.
“I’m quite impressed with your style already, Guildmistress. This Guild is far cozier! And excellent vittles.”
He took another bite from the hamburger that [Cook] Itmont had delivered. The Faces might object, but they had the money for fancier eating. Selys noticed some of the Ranks she had met before, Ribark and his team, chowing down on the burgers.
Actually, it looked like they’d had four. Each. She shouted at them.
“You’d better be resting and not have a job coming up because all that food’s going to either come up or weigh you down!”
They didn’t stop eating, and she shrugged.
“I’m treating this like a Guild. And this lot like they’re people. If you object to me spending gold…”
“No, no, not at all. It’s what I wanted.”
He was a strange [Lord] alright. Selys hadn’t really met any besides Tyrion or maybe Earl Altestiel, but Calidus seemed to enjoy novel things. She snorted, then walked over to a wall where requests were hanging.
Aside from mandatory ones, none of the Ranks exactly jumped at optional requests. Selys eyed one that she’d told Pilana to put up Adventurer’s Guild style.
 
Interception Quest — Merchant Erill.
A kill-order has been put onto [Merchant Lord] Erill Fienst. Given his personal protections and bodyguards, a Face or a squad of Ranks will have been dispatched to kill him.
Keep Lord Erill alive. His own personal protective artifacts and bodyguards should enable his survival if the initial assassination fails.
Reward: 600 gold coins. See desk for details. Must be taken within week of posting.
 
A standard request, the kind of which she’d post in Liscor’s Guild. A few oddities, but that was a handsome gold reward.
Handsome…if you weren’t going to have to fight other [Assassins]. In truth, it was a hard damn request, if not Gold-rank by Selys’ standards, a killing request. Like slaying a nest of Crelers, even babies.
She knew the Ranks had seen it. And knew that even the ones on downtime didn’t want to do this. No Face had leapt at the opportunity; they’d barely left the Guild except when ordered.
Scared to die. Funny that [Assassins] were like that. Or if not afraid of their mortality, unwilling to risk it just like that. Selys smiled. She saw Calidus glancing at her and lifted up something.
A hammer. Okay, fine, it was still copying someone. So what? Selys Shivertail concentrated and used the power she deserved.
The power she had longed for. And, frankly, which her friend had never used as well as she should have. Selys pulled the paper off the wall, and then it shimmered. Then she began to hammer onto the billboard, and the Ranks peeked up.
Toc. Toc. Toc.
Three blows, and then Selys Shivertail stood back. She heard Calidus begin to cackle with joy and smiled herself. Because this is what the request, now re-posted, now said.
No.
The <Quest>.
 
<Rare Interception Quest — Save Erill Fienst!>
Details: A kill-order has been put onto [Merchant Lord] Erill Fienst. Given his personal protections and bodyguards, a Face or a squad of Ranks will have been dispatched to kill him.
Objectives: Keep Lord Erill alive. His own personal protective artifacts and bodyguards should enable his survival if the initial assassination fails.
Quest Reward: 600 gold coins, withdrawal of one (1) Grade C artifact from Guild vaults or restock of five (5) enchanted munitions of Grade C quality. Experience in [Assassin] class.
Conditional Reward: If a Face is present, foiling the assassination attempt or full kill of enemy Ranks will be rewarded by a <Blade> artifact.
 
There it was. Selys admired the glowing words on the <Quest> she’d posted. Her quest. And her powers.
She’d been so damn envious of Erin, the [Innkeepers], and then her own grandmother and Lyonette, who all had the power she felt like she could use and never did anything with it!
Dead gods, you could be creative! But Tekshia had been ‘traditional’ and hadn’t liked the motivating factors of <Quests> or the unpredictability. Also, Erin had destroyed her Guild with one, so she was probably reluctant to post powerful quests on her walls.
But Selys had gained a Skill, and her eyes glinted.
She’d personally authorized the reward of an artifact from the vaults of the Assassin’s Guild. It was good motivation, and it’d keep the [Assassins] hungry while powering them up.
But the conditional reward? The <Blade> artifact?
She didn’t know what that was. Only that she could post it. The <Quest> was promising rewards that Selys didn’t have herself. Things that might not exist.
And experience.
When she stepped back, Selys knew that the other [Assassins] were eying the piece of paper. More than one had gotten up.
Even Ribark’s team were poking their stomachs, clearly wondering if they could make a day-long ride, full as they were. Selys didn’t move but blocked the view of the board from most of them with her head. She smiled, then pulled down another piece of paper. She raised the hammer, and now there was a stir in the room. She inspected the request, then lifted it, and her hammer touched the nail again.
Toc.
 
——
 
<Quests>, food, even horses and healers, which turned out to come from the same location. Selys Shivertail herself ended up going to House Walchaís.
Because the cover story that Calidus needed for a buyer for horses was actually standing in front of him when he gave it a moment’s thought. Who had money, a desire to invest, and a willingness to ignore northern squabbles between the nobility?
Selys Shivertail. She found House Walchaís’ lands eerie.
Not just because an entire Terland force stopped her at the border and practically strip-searched her. When the outraged Drake complained, the bored [Golem Controller] snapped back.
“We have had over a hundred attempts on Lady Walchaís’ life! The Knights of the Petal will conduct the same searches, Miss. And I would advise you not to act suspiciously. House Walchaís is very protective of their [Lady]. Er, [Ladies], now.”
Selys had known…something about Lady Bethal and Magnolia warring after the Winter Solstice, but not about what. Bethal had betrayed everyone?
Well…she did what she did best and put any feelings aside. Pragmatism. She needed those damn horses, so she was prepared to ignore that fact.
However, she was not prepared for just how much the area had changed since Bethal Walchaís’ sister had come back to life. Or the [Lady] herself.
The villages and towns in House Walchaís had felt Lady Magnolia’s wrath. A trade embargo and just the ire of other noble families clearly hurt their finances; there were virtually no visitors as Selys rode into the town. And everyone stared suspiciously at her.
In fact, the first Rose Knight who found Selys nearly stripped her naked again! The pink [Knight] almost had Selys take off her undergarments until she blinked.
“What’s that in your clothing? What—aaaah!”
That was Rhata, who leapt at the [Knight] and nearly got cut in half. However, it saved Selys from further indignation—and once she was in the town, she stared around.
“Ancestors. What is that?”
There was a line of people walking towards what Selys could only describe as some kind of weird ritual-site. She had no words for it except that the raised platform upon which some were placing items, the way they bowed, put their hands together, and lined up?
It reminded her of Erin’s bier. Only there was no body there. Selys’ scales tingled as the Rose Knight who’d ridden in with her explained.
“It is an altar. A shrine to the Goddess. Most of the townsfolk are [Faithful], or more. Welcome to House Walchaís, which has traded its noble honor for faith and miracles.”
She flipped up her visor, revealing a very weary, even grimy face. Selys turned, and the [Knight] glanced at her.
“I will be escorting you throughout your visit, Miss.”
“Me? Really?”
“We have no visitors. Magnolia Reinhart’s servants have attempted to kill Lady Bethal numerous times or tried to lay down poison—I am Dame Welca Caveis.”
The name was somewhat familiar. Selys hesitated.
“Weren’t you at the Winter’s Solstice? Did you and Lady Walchaís…?”
Betray everyone? Welca avoided Selys’ gaze.
“We forswore ourselves. Yes. For Lady Thricia’s life, Lady Bethal swore an oath to the Goddess whose power now runs through our lands. Even if I note her blessings seem few and far between, aside from what classes and these Miracles grant.”
She spat a bit of blackness onto the ground, and Selys’ mouth opened. Welca seemed like she was more angry at Bethal than Selys was, but perhaps it was a ruse. Selys forced a smile.
“I…am just here on business, Dame Welca. I should like to buy a number of horses.”
“Doubtless you will have them; few others wish to do business with us. You will need to speak to someone in the city. This way.”
Selys took a moment to stare at the Humans bowing before the altar. They put things there. A basket of apples. The first finished product from a [Blacksmith]’s forge. A letter. Welca clicked her tongue as she rode a horse which clearly didn’t want to let her ride it.
“This way, Miss Drake. The altars are in every hamlet and village if you should wish to offer something yourself. Nothing comes back.”
“What do they do with the apples and such? Wouldn’t they rot after a few days?”
Selys was familiar with honoring the dead, and you’d come back to take whatever you put out for fear of [Thieves]. She had to do it for both Zel and Tekshia this year, she realized. And her parents. She stopped dead in her tracks, but Welca just unlatched the carriage door.
“Nothing. They vanish when no one’s looking.”
The Drake’s head snapped around, and Welca offered her a grim smile.
“You think it a joke, Miss Drake? It is no joke, nor the classes. We have what it seems only Antinium and this Prophet of God have. There is a power here who Lady Bethal and her people worship. I just said that she never does anything in return. The hand of the Goddess rests on Walchaís’ lands.”
And then she pointed.
“Smog’s coming. If your carriage is not airtight, we must ride around it.”
“Smog? What smog—”
Then Selys saw a billowing cloud of it sweeping ahead of them in the distance. Drifting from far away, and Welca lowered her visor.
“Lady Magnolia’s gifts.”
 
——
 
The smog never touched Selys in the magical Wistram Carriage, but the black soot covered the magical vehicle and left it stained and sooty. The effect on the land was even more pronounced.
Grass was visibly withered and died beneath it. Farms—Selys saw streaked farmland clearly abandoned, a few crops growing where the black ash hadn’t touched, but everything else was just dead. No one was attempting to get rid of it. There was no point, according to Welca.
“It’s some kind of mixture that eats sunlight. One would have to strain the land with water again and again to rid oneself of it. Once they failed to kill Lady Bethal, Magnolia’s people began to blow it across the border. The Terlands can’t stop them. It will clog even their Golems’ eyes and joints.”
“Dead gods. Is Lady Magnolia taking it out on the citizens?”
That didn’t seem like her, but Welca shrugged.
“The citizenry stuck with House Walchaís and Lady Bethal. Most.”
“Why? If she betrayed everyone at Liscor—”
“She did. I was there.”
Then Selys was fidgeting, trying to bite her lip on—calm, pragmatic, don’t engage—but Welca truly seemed bitter. She shrugged.
“We have always loved House Walchaís, even those of us who came simply to join her Knights of the Petal. The last, despairing, passionate lady who fought the Goblin King? How could one not love her and the ever-faithful [Chevalier], and not understand why she would give all to resurrect her sister?”
“S-so her sister’s alive?”
“Oh yes.”
One glance from Welca. She had a cloth mask over her horse’s mouth to avoid a spray from the smog reaching them, but she just rode through it with her visor up. Which was stupid because Selys could hear her coughing several times. But Welca did not look like a happy woman.
“Magnolia Reinhart regards the people as traitors as much as House Walchaís. Starving them is but one way to harm Lady Bethal. Sadly, it does not work well.”
“Sadly…why not?”
“Because faith creates Skills. Observe. We reach the City of Vaisme. Lady Bethal Walchaís’ ancestral home is not far from here.”
The city, the lone one in Walchaís lands, seemed to have fallen on equally hard times given the economic damage that Magnolia could inflict. However, the adaptability of classes and people…Selys stared out the window and saw more strangeness.
“Cursed artifacts. Five farms have died, and five broken homes reveal five black fates. You, visitor, will you buy a curse?”
A woman in black, sooty clothing looked like she’d walked through one of the soot clouds. So did the five lumps of…Selys slowed.
“What are those?”
“A piece of timber from each barn that collapsed. A piece of bone from the best livestock put down as the suneater ash choked their lungs, unable to be butchered. A prayer to the one who returned the dead to life.”
The woman had fashioned a strange amulet, the kind which reminded Selys of Lord Mireden’s projects in Liscor—she’d kept up with home and knew about the odd charms sweeping her city. But unlike them, this one was crude. A piece of bone hooked into charcoal-black wood.
“Did you say cursed? Who would want that?”
The woman lifted one of the hanging curse-artifacts and shook it at Selys. When she smiled, her eyes lit up, and Selys recoiled.
“Why, because it’s a tradeoff, Miss Drake. [Vitality of the Undead]. Each hour you wear it, you’ll have the strength of one with nothing left to lose.”
“And draw closer to that fate yourself, no doubt. Or find your lungs coated with the same ash. It’s a product of House Walchaís, Miss Selys. Cursed artifacts. Tradeoffs. Let’s be on our way.”
“I’ll take two.”
Selys hopped out of the carriage, and Lady Welca faltered and whirled. The woman just took Selys’ gold, and the Drake very deliberately didn’t put it on, but took the hand-written note on how to use it. Welca eyed her.
“Are you an adventurer or collector?”
“I have people who might need it. Are there more?”
“Oh, aye. Plenty more if you want them. Food too.”
This time, Welca led Selys into the city and seemed deliberately trying to not show Selys the best sides of House Walchaís. Certainly, when Selys gave an item of ‘food’ on display a look, she froze.
“W-what is…?”
A [Pumpkin Farmer] had apparently owned one of the farms hit by Magnolia’s smogs. You could grow a specialty crop even out-of-season. However, pumpkins needed sunlight, so he’d lost his entire harvest.
Nevertheless, a pumpkin was on sale. Half of it was rotten, literally shriveled up and almost liquefied it was so nasty; it was sitting on a plate as the [Farmer]’s eldest daughter tried to sell it to Selys.
The other half…rose above the ruined bottom part, and it was semi-translucent. See-through. Black.
“‘Tis a Dead Pumpkin, Miss Visitor. Buy it as a novelty. Or t’eat. It has half the energy of a real pumpkin, but it is all that remains now.”
“A Dead Pumpkin?”
The daughter nodded.
“It died on the vine, and we thought the crop lost until we prayed to the Goddess. She did not bring back the harvest. But a Miracle came in the night. And it was this.”
Ghost food. Or undead food? Selys wasn’t sure it was at all edible, but when she bought one and pulled out a seed from within, it was translucent. Rhata, who feared no pumpkin seeds, even from dead pumpkins, nibbled on it.
The rat’s expression indicated it wasn’t great. However, the [Pumpkin Seller] explained the value simply.
“It won’t rot, Miss.”
“What, ever?”
“Not that we saw, and we left this in the ground until it was so rotted—as you see the other half. It feeds one very little, but it is light—the part resurrected. It feeds House Walchaís, just as our [Knights] keep our [Ladies] safe.”
She bowed to Dame Welca, and the [Knight] just spat again.
“The horses are just damned horses. Let’s have them bought, Miss Drake. I hope you don’t plan on buying too many.”
“Why?”
“Lady Bethal could use the coin.”
 
——
 
Insanity. The citizens were all insane. They had taken to wearing black, and those altars were indeed everywhere. Welca commented.
“Some people give half of what they earn to the Goddess. Others pray and pray for her to restore their dead family, friends. I heard one even laid a babe on the altar.”
“Did—did it—?”
“No. And Chevalier Thomast forbade any such sacrifices, but here is House Walchaís, which has seen great miracles. Lady Bethal herself has changed least, despite her new class. She does not deserve a bounty of coin.”
Welca had realized that Selys was rich and planning on buying a lot, and she was getting more hostile, but it was fascinating because she was a [Knight] clearly in service to Lady Bethal! Selys didn’t get it, but since this was no act, she stopped before they reached the Merchant’s Guild.
“Dame Welca. You seem to hold Lady Bethal’s actions at Liscor in great contempt, and you were there. Why, then, do you still serve her if you’re so set against Lady Bethal?”
Dame Welca opened her mouth. Before she could respond, a familiar, airy voice spoke, like barbed thorns hidden under a pleasant flower.
“Why, because she tried that and she saw how well it went. Because she had nowhere else to go, and frankly, because it amused me. But if you’re going to get in the way of business, I’ll have you digging privies, Welca. Or fighting monsters until you meet the Goddess.”
Selys’ scales prickled, and she forced a smile before she turned. She bowed—and there stood Lady Bethal Walchaís.
She was, as always, flanked by Thomast, who stood like a perfect statue, his light brown hair subtly styled, his rapier unsheathed and held to his chest—on guard, even now. He wore an outfit that would have been fit for Terandria’s ballrooms and practice courts alike. In that, Selys’ vague memories were not betrayed.
But the look in his eyes spoke betrayal of many things. Guilt and a haunted disquiet and disgust, perhaps at himself most of all. For he was visibly thinner. Clothing and attire in fine condition, but despite his wife’s best efforts, she could not save the man himself from wearing down.
By contrast, Lady Bethal Walchaís had no visible guilt, nor had she changed. Her blonde hair had flashes of royal Terandrian red in it, and she wore it cropped just over her eyes in the front, short and equally styled, and there was a clasp at her neck with the symbol of her house on it—and red. A dress like a rose, a bloody exterior over black undergarments. She twirled as she stepped forwards, and Welca bowed—slowly.
“Do you like the fashion, Miss? I’ve established it as a new style, given the look of much of House Walchaís of late. I wish I knew which color my divine benefactor prefers, but she hasn’t answered my prayers. So then, all colors or none!”
“Lady Bethal, I’m delighted to meet you.”
“And I am delighted to have someone coming to buy my horses! That is what this is about, isn’t it? My [Business Sense] pressed me to come out.”
Selys nodded, and Lady Bethal was fascinated, eager to sell her horses, and just as quickly horrified to know where they were going.
“To Calidus Reinhart? That slob? He was always younger than us, but I do recall him. Intelligent and annoying. Thomast, did you ever meet him? Do you recall—?”
The [Chevalier] had always been silent before, but now he had been quiet as the grave. His eyes found Selys, unblinking, until he interrupted with a gravelly voice.
“She was at Liscor.”
Selys jumped and froze as Bethal’s head snapped back to her. Instantly, a pair of pink Knights of the Petal drew their blades, but Thomast’s sword was faster. He knocked both down, and Bethal inspected Selys.
“Not at the battlefield, surely—?”
“No. Just a visitor to the inn. Stand down.”
The two bodyguards did, and Selys saw someone inside the Merchant’s Guild relax—and lower a chair. They’d been ready to jump her? They did love the [Lady]. Bethal Walchaís pursed her lips, uncertain, then beamed.
“Well, I regard the inn quite fondly in my memories! To be back there, on that beach…I regret how it ended, I truly do. Do they, ah, still hold a grudge there? I could visit, but for Magnolia’s damned servants. She truly isn’t forgiving me this time, is she, Thomast?”
She turned to Thomast, and he said nothing, which clearly upset Bethal. He was just staring at Selys, and the Drake couldn’t meet his eyes.
Tekshia Shivertail had died when the Draugr came through the gates. She’d died, and it was because the fools outside hadn’t held the battle lines. Because—Selys hadn’t been there. She hadn’t understood the battle in its entirety, but she knew Bethal had betrayed everyone else.
That didn’t mean she was the reason the Draugr made it through the gates. Practical, be practical—Selys forced a smile on her face.
“I’m gravely in need of horses, Lady Bethal, and Lord Calidus is just a business partner at this time. Could I talk numbers?”
“Of course, of course! I would love to do so! And you should ride a few. They’re the finest in Izril! Tell you what, you shall dine with me, and—”
“Bethal. Just sell her the damn horses.”
Thomast interrupted, and Bethal’s face froze, then she was all smiles again.
“Of course, Thomast! Let’s get this done, and speedily too! Two comments in a single outing? It’s a record, I swear. He’s been upset at me, as much as Magnolia, Pryde, and everyone else. To be fair, I understand. I even deserve it! But would you have done differently?”
She turned to Selys, and there, just for a moment, was a single crack in her gaily upbeat personality. A mote of guilt leaking out—but just a crack. She was not that ashamed, Selys realized. The Drake [Heiress] croaked a reply.
“You got your sister back, didn’t you? I—I might have done the same thing.”
Welca turned away abruptly. Thomast stopped staring at Selys and glanced over her shoulder. A rat bit Selys’ fingers in her pocket. And Bethal beamed.
“That’s right. Do you hear that, Thricia? Don’t hide! She’s perfectly safe. No one will ever harm you.”
She called into the Merchant’s Guild…and then Selys’ scales were all a-shiver. A figure moved from behind the protective townsfolk, and Selys saw…a dead woman appear.
A girl. She was just sixteen, and everything that Lady Bethal was—fully grown, confident and mature—was still unrefined and growing in her.
Thricia Walchaís was even gangly, taller than her older sister, with less red and more brown in her hair, and a travelling dress in plainer colors. Her irises bloomed like flowers, orange-yellow marigolds. She walked forwards hesitantly, and flowers bloomed and died behind her, rising and falling from the wooden floorboards.
Selys stared. Lady Bethal threw a hand out.
“This is Thricia, my younger sister, and the [Lady] who shall continue House Walchaís if she ever finds someone worthy of her! Not that I intend to look for her; you should be so much more adventurous, Thricia! Do admire her lovely Skill that causes the flowers and her eyes! I thought the Goddess had made a mistake, but no—it’s her levels.”
“Bethal. What is a Drake doing in the north?”
Thricia’s voice was a whisper. But not a hoarse one like Thomast’s, clearly disused, just one of great discomfort. She put a hand on the hilt of her sword as she eyed Selys.
“She’s a customer, a customer, Thricia. We’re not as hostile with the Drakes anymore—at least, I’m not. Miss Selys, Thricia. Thricia?”
The younger [Lady] inspected Selys, then frowned.
“She has a rat in each pocket. They both seem strong. For rats. She herself is stronger than most. Her aura almost nonexistent. But a seed’s placed there. I wish I had more training. Mine own aura rages. I wish Lady Zanthia would teach me. I want to leave home, Bethal.”
Bethal blinked, and every eye turned to Selys as Rhata and Haldagaz poked their heads out of her pockets. That provoked a genuine expression of astonishment from Thomast. Bethal’s eyes flicked to him hungrily, drinking in the unguarded face as if she were dying of thirst. Then she spoke faster.
“Of course, Thricia! Drake lands! I should have thought of it! As for Zanthia—no. No, I don’t—I shall ask, of course, but she’s always been a harridan, that old woman.”
They were all out-of-sync. Thomast. Bethal. Thricia. Each one had a different emotion, a different reaction to the state of things. Thricia blinked, then rounded on Bethal, and her timidity turned into a shout so fast that Selys recoiled.
The Walchaís temper turned out to be hereditary. But not just that—Thricia snapped in a passable battlefield roar.
“Harridan? Harridan!? How dare you, Bethal!”
“W-what? Thricia, I only meant she’s always pestering and lecturing—”
Bethal drew back in astonishment, and Thricia’s eyes blazed. The flower petals of her eyes opened wider, and then vines were rising around her. Thorny ones blooming with flowers—Selys stepped behind Welca as Thomast held out his sword, but only moving a sprouting vine back from his wife. And Thricia’s eyes were filled with tears.
“Zanthia Okreis, the Tutor of Elegance, taught you, me, and every [Lady] of the Flowers of Izril. She is there. Right there.”
She pointed a finger, and every head turned, but Thricia was pointing at something else. A memory. Her face rose, stricken, and she gazed ahead. The vines around her burst into flame. Wilting. All fashioned purely out of her aura.
“She is the first one to step forwards and tell us what we have to do. The first to leave our safe mansions and walk at him. Her entire family, her sons and father and daughters—then Father tells Mother not to go, but she takes a step forwards. Then the Ultas. The Reinharts are wavering, saying that if we just have a bit longer, Magnolia will use the Crown of Flowers—but the gates will not hold another hour, let alone a day. When the Goblin King howls, she’s the brightest aura. Fighting with the others so he goes after her first.”
She turned, the youngest [Lady], and then Selys remembered who she was supposed to be. Thricia Walchaís. A girl who had died a decade ago. The youngest member of House Walchaís—who all perished in the Sacrifice of Roses.
Every last one but for Bethal. The older [Lady] was frozen, but Thricia’s tears kept falling. She spoke, voice breaking.
“I can see her. I can hear him coming and the howl of Goblins. How dare you, Bethal? How dare you?”
“Thricia. I—I forgot. It’s been over ten years, and—I am sorry. Forgive me.”
Bethal hesitantly walked forwards, trying to embrace her younger sister, but Thricia slashed with an arm, and Bethal backed up.
“Forget? Is ten years really enough time? Can you ever forget that monster?”
“No.”
Bethal whispered, and Thricia shuddered. She wiped at a dripping nose, then peered around. At Selys, blankly.
“It was just yesterday. You’ve yanked me, like a fish from a river, and placed me a decade ahead. Don’t you dare speak poorly of Zanthia or the dead or I’ll pluck out your eyes, Bethal. Just like he ripped mine out. All this—you should have brought Father or Mother back.”
“And left them alone? One half sundered? I could only choose you. You have the longest to live.”
Bethal grasped her sister as Thricia began to claw at her eyes, and the younger [Lady] whirled. Face alight with—
Selys had never actually seen Bethal Walchaís lose an aura clash. But the shower of petals and the air moving hurled Bethal back into Thomast’s arms. Thricia stood, trembling.
“My aura is rampant. My eyes—my levels—gifts for facing the Goblin King. I cannot just enjoy this strange life nor war with Magnolia Reinhart nor bear to see everyone else grown around me or how few flowers remain. Make your deal with Drakes.”
Her eyes flashed hatred at Selys, and Thricia turned.
“I am leaving, Bethal. I throw myself on House Terland’s graces until I can make sense of it all. Terland or Wellfar. Since we are so hated that nowhere else will take us.”
“Thricia!”
Bethal tried to race after her sister as Thricia whirled and began to run. Flowers sprouted from her steps, each one a black rose, and then Bethal Walchaís fell to her knees. Gazing at her sister as Selys Shivertail wished she’d taken tomorrow to visit. It took Bethal a long moment to stand, then she was giving orders.
“Go after her. Bring her back! I don’t trust Magnolia or—or anyone to not harm her! That is an order!”
“Bethal, let her go. She cannot stay safe forever.”
“She will never die again, Thomast! Go!”
Bethal screamed at her [Knights]. They glanced at each other, and one began to run forwards—until Welca Caveis walked forwards. She had a shortsword and shield. Calmly, she slapped the frosted blade across the face of the other [Knight]. Then, when the [Knight] jerked, slammed the edge of her shield against their head.
The unexpected blow didn’t down the enchanted Knight of the Petal. But it did provide an opening; Thricia Walchaís was racing away on horseback before the second [Knight] got around Welca, who had swung at them economically, with no real desire to kill.
Nor great skill, if Selys was a judge. She was just a [Knight]. Strong for her level, but no master or Face. Nevertheless, Welca’s face revealed great satisfaction in thwarting Bethal’s schemes. Right up until the [Lady]’s head snapped around.
“[The Vine that Broke Castles].”
The earth exploded underfoot, and Selys leapt away as a black vine shot up, grabbed Welca, then slammed her into the ground. She made a sound, sword sawing at the vine, and Bethal’s voice thundered.
“Traitor! I offered you mercy and a second life and this is how you repay me? Do you want me to take back Her gifts, Welca? Beg and I might let you live—”
“Unhappy your sister remembers how things should be, milady?”
Welca rasped. Bethal’s response was to hurl her into the wall of the Merchant’s Guild. Then her aura was black thorns in the air, so intense they began to shred even Welca’s pink, enchanted armor.
Levels. They’d all levelled up. Welca twitched as the thorns pinned her along with the aura, until Thomast spoke.
“Bethal, enough. Let her go. Sell your horses and leave Welca alone.”
Bethal froze. She rounded on Thomast, face filled with fury, then spotted Selys.
Selys, who was trying to hide behind her enchanted carriage. Bethal hesitated, then smiled ruefully.
“Ah, Miss Selys. Why don’t we take care of our business first? How many horses was it? I do accept coins or Merchant’s Guild credit.”
When Selys Shivertail produced the little black card, Bethal beamed.
 
——
 
The incident in House Walchaís had Selys wanting to leave as fast as possible, and the one upside was this: Bethal needed the gold Selys was putting down.
Bethal haggled hard, but Selys was so rattled she just paid an exorbitant sum for two hundred horses and was riding towards the border as fast as could be.
Clearly, Thricia Walchaís and Bethal and these lands were—mad. Mad with loyalty towards this Goddess, and the one mercy was that her power seemed limited purely towards classes.
But what classes! Selys had a bunch of artifacts made with this divine power, and she reckoned it might give her [Assassins] an edge. But the final clue came when she glanced at the [Knight] lying across from her in the magical carriage.
Hilariously, Welca was still on guard-duty for Selys, and so the Drake had needed help bundling her into the carriage. She was making wheezing sounds.
Ribs broken. 
“What possessed you to do that? I thought you were loyal to House Walchaís, for all you complained!”
“I…just don’t want her killed by Magnolia’s servants. We still did…wrong. Thricia is innocent. She doesn’t…get what’s going on. She died a decade ago.”
Welca gasped. Her armor was ruined by the thorns, and she was struggling with it, trying to get the pieces off. Selys shook her head.
“Well, you’re clearly fired. If you objected so much, why did you stay?”
She was angry. Angry at Bethal and being too afraid to talk back to the dangerous lady. Angry at the judgemental look Thomast had given her, that traitor. So she took it out on Welca, but of all people, the [Knight] seemed amused by Selys’ question. She began laughing until she choked, and the wheeze-hiss of her breath filled the air along with the screeching of broken, now unenchanted, metal.
She tore her chestplate off, and Selys froze as Welca Caveis lay there.
“I didn’t stay. I quit the moment we reached House Walchaís. In shame. In disgrace. Sadly…Magnolia Reinhart thought it was too late for that.”
She had clothing on under her armor, but skintight, form-fitting so it didn’t chafe against the padded metal. Welca pulled up her tunic so Selys could see the grey-black scar more clearly. Her heart beat. Selys saw it pulse through the strange scar tissue. The cut that had gone through Welca’s chest had been a killing blow.
Or would have been except for—Welca lay back down weakly.
“There is nowhere to go. My own House forsook me. I am a twice-dead woman. Just like poor Thricia.”
“Magnolia Reinhart had you killed? How did—? How—?”
“Lady Bethal Walchaís found me a step over the border. She prayed for me. [Pale Mending]. The power of House Walchaís is in death, flowers, and faith now. For all the good it does Izril.”
The [Knight] lay there, one of her ribs visibly broken through her translucent skin. Then Selys Shivertail regarded what had become of one of Magnolia Reinhart’s greatest allies. The cost, or perhaps rewards, of treachery.
Her grandmother had died when Kasigna took Liscor’s walls. And the [Lady], one of two traitors at the Winter Solstice…
Welca’s eyes found Selys. Full of guilt and bitterness, and Selys Shivertail met them. Then glanced away, and she said—
“Turn the carriage, would you, Haldagaz? I have a second offer to make Lady Bethal. And, Miss Caveis. Would you like a job?”
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail hired House Walchaís’ services as [Healers] for Calidus’ [Assassins]. Their powers were astounding, if not all-encompassing. But Lady Bethal was only too delighted to take Calidus’ coin and not ask too many questions about who Selys intended to send to be given the power of miracles.
It wasn’t as good as Pawn’s healing, but it was beyond any other group in Izril. A huge boon, with the one caveat being they had to send people to House Walchaís—Lady Bethal refused to send her people outside her lands while Magnolia had the blockade running. Even so, Selys Shivertail congratulated herself about that.
Her arrangement didn’t come with the services of Welca Caveis, however. She would have made a fine bodyguard, given her levels. And she had no attachment to Lady Bethal, of course.
However, she rode north after Lady Thricia instead, to serve as the reborn [Lady]’s protector. She had looked Selys in the eye and flatly refused to work for the Drake.
As if she were judging Selys, that traitor.
Selys punched one of the pillows in the magical carriage until her claws hurt. She ignored the two rats sitting in the front seat; they’d had another fight.
None of this was Selys’ fault! She had to do what it took to survive! If she didn’t, she’d end up with her throat cut, dead in a ditch—if she had power, when she had the Assassin’s Guild’s authority and no complications, then Selys could consider settling debts.
I’m not going to end up like Erin, sailing through a sea of magical spells because I can’t bide my time! I’m doing the correct thing! The logical thing!
She was so mad that when Calidus Reinhart met her back in Isbeut with a bouquet of flowers, she took them and began stomping them into the street. He watched her.
“You know, I don’t offer this except to ladies I really like—I could happily offer myself in place of those poor flowers if it makes you feel better. Call it a first date?”
He fluttered his eyes at her, and she gave him a flat look.
“Are you serious? Me? Go date a Face!”
“Sadly, I believe most of them are keen on sleeping to get ahead, and I have strict rules about not doing that!”
He turned up his nose with a huge sigh. Selys opened her mouth, closed it.
“I’m not interested. You’re the scary Guildmaster. Threaten to have me killed to get your way.”
Calidus recoiled.
“Like some kind of rapist entirely typical within my class and noble bloodline? How dare you, Miss! I prefer to win my partner’s affections through that fascinating thing we call respect. There’s so little point, otherwise. You might as well just put some lipstick on a hand; it gets the job done.”
She stomped into the Guild. Selys threw herself into her seat.
“How many have we lost?”
“Th-thirty, Guildmistress. There was another raid.”
“Thirty?”
This was a disaster! Selys clawed at her face.
“Do you mean wounded? Because we have healing the enemy lacks—”
“No, Guildmistress. That’s dead. Wounded are—”
Calidus popped up behind Selys, hands folded behind his back, smile gone. He nodded after Selys finished listening.
“It was their [Bladesmaster]. We must do something about him—and just the fact that they appear to have more Ranks than we do. Or a willingness to commit them to destroy us, at any rate. I do have a plan to throw my opponents into disarray, you know. But it does require a location.”
“Of what, their Guild? Going to blast them with a Tier 7 spell?”
The [Lord] shrugged.
“If I had one, I’d fire it at First Landing instead and claim it was them. No, something that will either get us all killed or place us ahead in a hopefully incontrovertible way. But for that I require a location where they are. Even a single base. But it appears as though they tend to be winning most engagements.”
“Our Ranks need an edge. I’ve done what I can to get them logistics, healing—now they need gear. Got any?”
She snarled at him, and Calidus tapped at his lips.
“My grandfather might have some, but he won’t back a horse he’s not sure will win. I’m afraid—”
“Nevermind, I’ll deal with it. Like I need to deal with everything around here. Because you know what? I’m capable. Someone load up the magical carriage; I’m leaving, and I’ll be back within two days, tops! One should do it…does this card still have money on it?”
She waved the card at Calidus, and he raised his brows.
“I shall make sure it does.”
“Good!”
She stormed out of the Guild. Calidus admired the way her angry tail swept the floor like a broom. He sighed as he leaned against the counter.
“There is nothing quite as attractive as a lovely, intelligent lady who hates your guts. Winning her oh-so-unhappy heart—that’s real romance.”
He commented to Lagrisse. The [Deliverer of Secrets] stopped writing at the desk and glanced at Calidus.
“If I may speak, Guildmaster…”
“Oh, please! I am delighted to hear opinions.”
“I have always found that the most attractive beings to me are the ones eternally out of reach. The glittering blades that leave marks on Izril’s underworld. Faces of Faces.”
Calidus Reinhart paused, then patted Lagrisse on the shoulder.
“I can see you enjoy your job, my friend. I myself went through that era, but one can only claw at the wall so long before they explode—well, I suppose that’s the joy of it. You know, I actually got a letter back from Cognita Truestone one time? I have it framed in my study. I’ll show it to you sometime over drinks.”
Then he strolled out of the Guild as everyone stared at him.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart wasn’t actually without a plan. He had a backup plan to arm the Ranks and help Selys Shivertail gain that advantage the Guild needed. It was just that Calidus wanted her to do her thing first.
Firstly, because she needed to do this herself or what was the point of her being the Guildmistress for him? Second—he was fascinated by her methods.
Apparently, she had intuited that House Walchaís was important, and not only picked up horses, but their unique artifacts and even healing! And it was because of The Wandering Inn.
Fascinating. Calidus was doing his part, incidentally. He’d set up what he hoped would be a fine move in the game against the rival Assassin’s Guild. But in the meantime, he went and found a member of the Ranks he liked.
She was, of course, female. He couldn’t help it! Plus, there was something about a Gnollish [Assassin] which tickled his fancy. She was lying in a cot, recuperating—they’d send the wounded to House Walchaís after this, but she had just returned from none other than Liscor itself.
“Miss Dirfang! That’s not a typo, is it? Direfang? No? Dirfang it is, delightful. And a splendid job on deterring that Face from killing—who was it?”
“The [Princess].”
Calidus sat at the foot of the bed as the Gnoll rasped. He felt slightly bad for her. Well, none of them had asked for this, but he had to own, missing a good chunk of your face was a rough one.
Sprayed with acid, apparently. A Face had gone after Lyonette du Marquin. They’d failed.
“You have done excellently, Rank Dirfang, and I only regret that our <Quests> weren’t posted when you took the job. Which is why I’ve come to personally reward you.”
“Are we having sex, Guildmaster?”
Calidus slapped his face and pulled his eyelids down.
“Dead gods. No. Only consensual—nevermind that. Listen to me. You did a splendid job. We didn’t know a Face was there, but you thwarted them.”
The Gnoll paused and rasped; he could see her tongue moving in what was left of her mouth.
“Didn’t do much, Guildmaster. Face left. [Knight] was there. And other Face. Fast one; no getting near the inn. Couldn’t even find it.”
Calidus nodded reasonably.
“It was cloaked, so they had to go after the woman when she entered the city. And she had bodyguards who seem to be well and truly competent. I understand that. Nevertheless, you did what was asked of you. And paid for it. We’ll get you a lovely mask fashioned. I think it’ll really enhance the look. Or just keep the, ah, burns. Nothing like that for intimidation value.”
He gave her a thumbs up, and she waited. Calidus sighed.
I really hope they develop some personality soon. He clapped his hands together briskly.
“I am promoting you out of the Ranks. You are a fully-fledged [Assassin] now. Your loyalty, Dirfang, is beyond doubt. You have bled for the Assassin’s Guild. Tonight you will claim Grade C weaponry and armor and a choice of Grade B artifacts from the Guild’s vaults.”
They had a number of items that Regis had either pulled from his personal vaults or salvaged from the Assassin Guild’s own stocks. Dirfang reacted for the first time. He saw her half-rise, despite the bandages covering her face.
“I’m not a Rank?”
“A full list of your new rights and perks will be given to you after this. Reading for while you heal up. Congratulations, Assassin Dirfang.”
He held out a hand, and she stared at it. Then the Gnoll hesitantly took his hand.
“It only took nearly dying once?”
Ah, well, you could understand the whole of her entire history from that comment, the shock and puzzlement on her face. Calidus Reinhart didn’t do the nice thing. He did the thing his brain told him to do and leaned forwards. Her brown eyes focused on him, and he spoke to her.
“In Izril, the rules are different, Dirfang. They’re my rules for my Assassin’s Guild. No one else’s. It’s not just for ‘nearly dying once’. It’s me taking a risk on you. I see your potential, and I want the Assassin’s Guild to thrive. We have a damn war to win, and so I am promoting you so the Ranks see what they can achieve. I want you to keep levelling, to heal up, and someday, if you keep giving me your best and not dying—I’m very keen on that—you’ll be a Face. And that’s what I want. Faces, not corpses. Understand?”
Her eyes focused on his face, and she was utterly confused.
“But I’m not even the best of my batch. There are plenty of people like me.”
Calidus smiled at her because she spoke a language he knew, that of practicality and pragmatism, but he felt like she hadn’t thought about it hard enough.
“That’s true, Dirfang. I could replace you and get the same results by not treating your wounds, throwing ten more Ranks at the problem, and just paying for more, couldn’t I?”
She nodded. That’s what they’d taught her. Calidus shook his head.
“That’s an idiot’s move. It sounds correct, but when you treat the world as expendable, it will do the same to you. Loyalty means something. Roshal doesn’t understand loyalty because to them, it is the click of a collar or crack of a lash. We’re Izrilian. We may be incorrect, and perhaps Roshal is in possession of the optimal methods. But I am operating under what I understand to be true, and as far as I can tell, Izril’s north is a lot bigger than Roshal’s single city. Who matters more? A single Face or a hundred Ranks used well?”
Silence. Calidus squeezed her hand harder, then let go.
“Who can be a Face? Anyone. With training, support—I do believe in that theory. Levels reward every action, every deed! There are [Drunkards] in this world, yes, wastes of space. Do you know what?”
He leapt up and spread his arms.
“Ever met a Level 40 [Drunkard]? I have! Terrifying in what they can do! Every person has a unique set of Skills, even if their class is the same! Somehow, through my bumbling around, drinking myself silly, chasing lovely ladies, I have levelled decently well. So yes, I am promoting you to see what you can do. No matter what, I hope I’ll be entertained, because the goal isn’t purely optimal, by-the-numbers success, Dirfang. If that were so, I’d say we should hire Antinium [Assassins].”
He smiled at his own joke and got a slight nod. She stared at him, and he stood.
He really hoped his pep talk worked and she spread it around. Oh well. He strolled towards the door.
“When you’re ready, inform a member of staff and claim your gear, Dirfang. Oh, and one last thing.”
He flicked a finger at her as a passing Rank dragging himself out of one of the healing rooms slowed. Dirfang froze, and Calidus felt the power there. It ran across the Guild, and the Faces peered up as the [Lord], the [Genius of Sloth], used a Skill he had been given.
“[Move Reality Like Chess]. [Copy Skill (Intellect): Promote the Pawn].”
He had to force that one. Use both Skills because one wasn’t enough. He felt his entire arm shaking, and he knew—he was laughing.
Laughing, because he had wanted to try this. But he didn’t have any pawns—until now. The [Lord] saw the young Gnoll woman half-rising. Alarmed—
Then the Guild flashed, and Selys Shivertail, getting into her magical carriage, spun and glanced around. If that was all, Calidus might have been disappointed.
But since he was currently flying out a window, he decided he was content. He calculated how many bones he was going to break as he tried to pull his legs up—too slow—
Losmere tackled him in midair and arrested his fall. Calidus landed in her arms and beamed up at her shocked face, a slightly dazed expression on his. A piece of glass pinged off his forehead.
“Ow. I’ve never seen a Skill with kickback before. But then—I’ve never tried to copy the Titan of Baleros’ Skills before.”
“You—how did you—? The Titan of Baleros?”
She put him down as Calidus Reinhart sat up stiffly and got to his feet. He waved at Selys and then, holding his back, hobbled into the Guild.
“Someone replace that window. Entertaining as that was, I hope that doesn’t happen every time. Or that the small bastard noticed what I did. Yes. I can copy most intellectual Skills, and so why would I copy anything else? You think I should copy [Recollect Fact]? Please. The beautiful thing about high-level, famous people is that they say their Skills to show off now and then. There’s entire books. Lovely, fascinating books. Has no one ever read them? Just me? It’s not exactly hard to intuit what his Skill does. Using it, now…excuse me, excuse me. I would love to meet Miss Dirfang. And I do hope she has some amazing new class or whatnot.”
He pushed through the Guild, wobbled up the stairs, and poked his face into the half-destroyed room where the [Assassin] was. Calidus took one look at the silver mask of a snarling Gnoll grafted to her face and her sharp-looking outfit, newly upgraded by a Skill.
He gave the astonished Dirfang a second thumbs up.
Then passed out in the middle of the hallway.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart woke up to find everyone gathered around him, that he’d broken a rib, and that there were even more than physical consequences for stealing the Titan of Baleros’ Skills. Delightful ones.
He struggled upright, mumbled about his chest hurting, and wondered why he’d done what he’d done. Looked at the lovely [Assassin] with a new, alluring face and wondered what Skills she’d gotten.
Then he realized something was wrong. He was…uh…what was the word for it?
“Inebriat…no, indelib…is that a word?”
It took him six minutes, and someone had to find Zeomtoril to come up with the word. He was incapacitated! Mentally impaired! Less smart!
Calidus wandered around with a huge smile on his face, shaking hands, asking about Skills, curious and excited like everyone else—and in need of his ribs being bandaged and some help with that, thank you—but no longer followed around by a clamor of ideas and insights.
He wished it would last forever. Sadly, it lasted for only four hours before he was back to normal. It proved that he was onto something, though. Copying a Skill at merely this level of price? Worth it.
Mind you, it might kill him to do a higher-value Skill, but if it left him dumb as an onion for a month, that was just all upside. A splendid day, even if Regis called that evening to shout at Calidus.
Which you’d assume would be typical, but Reinharts actually liked to go for neglect over direct abuse. Regis hadn’t cared about Calidus one whit until the day Calidus had demonstrated his intellect.
Calidus still regretted it. He’d been young, but still.
“You are killing the [Assassins] meant to be removing the north’s enemies, you buffoon!”
Calidus sat up groggily; he was in the Assassin’s Guild, and someone had swept up all the bits of glass. Someone else handed him a cup of water instantly; Dirfang.
Oho. Loyalty? He smiled at her, then shooed her off. When she took a step back, he sighed.
“Excuse me, Grandfather, staffing. Assassin Dirfang, go enjoy yourself. Me promoting you doesn’t mean you need to attend me as if you were a [Favored Slave].”
Confused, she moved back, and he gave her a thumbs up. She returned it, hesitantly, and Calidus levered himself up.
“Yes, yes, I’m killing the other [Assassins]. Why? Because they’re killing my [Assassins], and that’s strategy, Grandfather. A strategy you’ve forced me into. No, no, shut up. Don’t blame me for taking the most expedient route to victory. You wanted us to counterlevel? That’s how it works.”
Regis snarled in his ear.
“I ordered you to deal with that [Princess] and the Drake! The other Guildmaster was—foolish in trying to have her killed. Though I believe the mission was also to kidnap her ‘daughter’. You could participate in that.”
Calidus pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Grandfather, I like to sleep at night.”
“…And?”
“I’m not doing that.”
“You are the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild. Are you incapable of doing your job?”
Regis’ voice went abruptly calm, and Calidus registered the change as pure danger. Probably Regis wondering if Calidus needed removing altogether. The [Lord] spoke, cheerful.
“There are things I don’t feel like doing, Grandfather, and if you want the superior Guildmaster to run your Guild, you’ll live with that.”
“You’re not doing better than your counterpart.”
“Ha. Haha. How many Faces has he created? Or even full-ranked [Assassins]? Don’t answer that, I don’t care. If you’re going to study our performance based on, what, a month of work and a week of operational activity from my side? You’re an idiot, Grandfather. I will win this war. But let me address your first point.”
Calidus spoke loudly as Regis tried to get a word in edgewise. He truly was dangerous if some of the things Calidus’ mind hypothesized were true, but he was also…family. And family dealt with family in precise ways.
“It appears that you believe the kidnapping of children is under my purview. How about child-assassination?”
“Do you think that’s not a task for an [Assassin]?”
“Fair enough. Baby killing? Good old stab in the cradle?”
A moment of hesitation there, because Calidus knew his grandfather. He was still a Reinhart, a noble. They liked to think they had principles. Calidus leaned on the counter and met Lagrisse’s eyes, using the man as a weathervane to see how the others felt about this.
“Surely a good Guildmaster of Assassins should do that. When you tell me to burn a city to the ground, do I say, ‘yes sir, how hot?’ When you tell me, as a Guildmaster, that you want better killers and to feed them all A’ctelios Salash’s flesh, do I do that?”
“Don’t be ridiculous.”
The room went still, and Calidus nodded at Losmere, who was eying him. He spoke with a purr in his voice.
“When you say breach the Minacien Wall, do I agree if I’m your perfect Guildmaster? Or do I, a capable, intelligent individual, draw my line? And which would you rather have, Grandfather? A lickspittle toad who has no direction but the one you draw for him, or one who has rules? The rules you set in motion?”
“You’ve made your point, boy. Enjoy your victory.”
Regis growled back, but there was a hint of admiration there. Calidus exhaled. One small victory for Calidus…he rubbed at his brows.
“Now you’re going to make me do something anyways, aren’t you?”
“I still don’t want that Drake to succeed. Deal with her and him. Occupy their time if nothing else.”
“What am I, your personal [Servant]? Get one of your precious Circle of Thorns to do it!”
Calidus complained. Regis responded after a moment.
“They are…significantly depleted. The rest are either needed for other tasks or insufficient to my needs.”
“Ah, they’re brainless little frogs hopping to your beat. See, this ties back into my first point—”
Regis hung up on him. Calidus sighed, rubbed at his face, then turned and brightened as he had an idea. It flashed into his head, and he beamed.
“Well, that sounds like fun.”
 
——
 
Take the [Princess] out. Deal with the Drake. Calidus had an idea. It dovetailed with his personal belief in not killing attractive ladies in case there was even a chance they’d ever meet. But it was also highly funny and fell in line with an event currently occupying Liscor that he’d read in one of the reports.
Namely, the scandal involving Krshia Silverfang and Lism Swifttail. Calidus had been reading a report with some very candid images.
“I can see why they’re together. Nothing like fantastic hate-sex, one assumes. And that Drake—look at that!”
He whistled and tried to show Zeomtoril; the [Polymath] recoiled.
“I am not looking at other men’s genitals!”
“Coward. Anyways, that’s my idea.”
Zeomtoril, arguably one of Calidus’ only friends in this world, gazed at the report, Calidus, and a file on this Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette du Marquin. He tried to figure it out, but even he had noticed how Calidus’ mind was hard to follow.
“Explain it, Calidus.”
“Isn’t it obvious? Look at this Drake. Notice the purple coloration? Very nice, very royal. Iconic. Red hair’s easy on the [Princess]. Now, just parallel that in your head with this incident and recall the brothel I went to?”
“The Lubricated Abyss or whatnot? I don’t—”
Then Zeomtoril’s eyes narrowed, and Calidus beamed at him. The [Polymath] picked up a headshot of Lyonette and tilted it back and forth. Then cast around his neatly-organized workshop with so many inventions.
“Hmm. I was making up some facemud just the other day for your people. That sounds rather interesting.”
Calidus beamed.
“And funny! Let me just call some of my friends—”
 
——
 
Calidus knew a lot of sex workers. Sometimes as a client, but then you wanted to know what they were like. Sometimes, that ruined the fun. Sometimes, it got you a drinking buddy like the Gnoll he’d introduced to Damia.
They knew he paid well, and when he guaranteed anonymity and offered to triple what they made in a single night, he got plenty of volunteers. He only needed two.
Drake and Human. A young lady around the same age and build as the [Princess], and same for the Drake for the Wall Lord.
The rest was easy.
Well, Calidus didn’t do it, he just connected the dots. Zeomtoril had plenty of dyes and an eye for color. He also had a kind of mud you could apply to your face to make a nose look thicker or adjust skeletal features.
He’d developed it mostly to avoid [Debt Collectors]. Just throw that in a room with a scrying orb and…
It took Losmere a bit longer to figure it out, but the [Assassin] had never thought to blackmail someone with a scrying orb.
“We would do a picture, Lord Calidus. To his family? His own lover? Her kingdom?”
“Bah, Losmere, that’s so old-fashioned. Why bother with that when you can whistle up that handy Wistram News Network and broadcast it all over the place? It’s occurred to me, more than once after Dragonspeaker Luciva issued that obvious statement about truth spells, that the ‘news’ doesn’t properly ensure accuracy on all its reports.”
And this was scandalous. Calidus watched the two actors really get into the role; he’d done some writing of dialogue, but it was mostly a wordless performance after the setup, and they could edit the recording. Just so long as someone confirmed they weren’t messing with the image itself…you had a ‘Lyonette’ and ‘Wall Lord Ilvriss’ in a very scandalous meeting.
Throw it into Liscor, already spinning from one scandal, and he felt like it’d hit the news. Zeomtoril was very proud of his work. He’d only wanted to brew a [Lesser Polymorph] potion to play Ilvriss.
A few minutes later, Calidus told the embarrassed [Mage] to stop recording, ran the memory crystal to the nearest Mage’s Guild, and addressed it to Sir Relz of Pallass.
Getting it into the hands of the broadcasters was actually tricky-fun. He’d written off Drassi, regretfully; she’d never air it. He’d thought maybe to go via another news channel, but they weren’t as popular.
He could have tried Wistram—but they might backtrace the magic, and he didn’t understand the academy’s politics, nor did he want to risk an Archmage or someone using it for their own agenda or sitting on it.
That left Sir Relz or Noass. Simple. Of the two, Calidus had calculated Noass might open it on his regular ‘I Hate Everything’ broadcasts, or he could get it onto a broadcast of the ‘music videos’, but both events would probably have it censored fast. You might think, then, that Sir Relz was harder to get ahold of instead of Noass because he was higher-ranking in Pallass, but the opposite was true.
Lagrisse barely had to do any work with a local Pallassian [Informant] for Calidus to piece together exactly which eligible bachelorettes in Pallass had Sir Relz drooling after them. He picked a lovely Wall Lady that Sir Relz would be amenable to receiving correspondence from and arranged a teleportation to the Mage’s Guild, then a pickup via the Runner’s Guild and delivery under said Wall Lady’s name.
Normally, the Runner’s Guild would identify the requestee first, but again, you just had to pay a local [Informant] for a copy of the woman’s personal Runner’s Seal, and the Guild didn’t bother doing any more checks. In that way, it was easier than faking someone unimportant; the rich and powerful left too many things lying around a bad person could use.
Calidus spent the rest of the day waiting for the evening broadcast. He had it on good authority a certain Sir Relz had accepted a gift delivered to him with alacrity; it wasn’t going to be caught up in any spam mail piles, and he’d probably opened it right away.
It was almost a disappointment, then, when Calidus Reinhart, whose own chest was beating with excitement, turned on the news and then—
 
“What you are about to see next might disturb viewers. We have edited this recording for decency, but I insist on all minors and those unwilling to view explicit acts to turn the scrying orb off at once. This recording was sent in anonymously and appears to showcase a troubling, nay, scandalous affair. It raises huge questions about security for a Walled City, motivations, bloodlines—once again, this material is highly…lewd. I believe a word I was quoted by a certain Human was ‘pornographic’. Exceptionally so.”
 
Calidus beamed. Then, before the edited clip of the two actors began—of a [Princess] and Wall Lord meeting in a room, tearing each other’s clothes off and engaging in some rather provocative sex began—he lost his smile.
Walked out of the room. Then poured himself a drink.
That confused the Faces and even Zeomtoril, who was crowing.
“Calidus! Calidus, what are you doing? It’s all over the news! It’s hilarious! You did it, man!”
Regis Reinhart himself was sending Calidus a brief note of approval and a reward—more artifacts for his Assassin’s Guild. Losmere was on her feet with the Faces.
To them, this action was the most uncanny, most scary Calidus Reinhart had been. Even more than promoting a Rank to a higher class—they knew death and violence. But Calidus had, with minimal apparent effort, put something on the news.
Changed the world in that way that made the [Assassins] wary.
Soft power.
However, Calidus just drank, and when he glanced around, he seemed upset. Even…he took a huge gulp of whiskey, then shrugged.
“It worked. The old man’s happy.”
“And?”
Zeomtoril was incredulous, annoyed at the reaction, but Calidus just walked off.
“The rest is predictable. It’ll be a scandal; they’ll both deny it and fan the flames, and they’ll go hot. Salazsar will cause a fuss, and they might even call Wall Lord Ilvriss back; it’ll make a lot of their conservatives lose faith in him. The [Princess] will be entirely embarrassed, and I daresay we’ve ruined her reputation forever. Even with Calanfer spinning this as best they can, it’ll make her a slattern.”
“Right. Just like you predicted. Why aren’t you happy?”
One of the Faces asked, genuinely curious. Calidus just peered around.
“Oh, I am, I suppose. It’s just…I was worried Sir Relz would have a Skill. Would double-check it with the inn, even though I know he resents them and can’t find it. Or that I’d made a mistake or missed a variable. But it went off perfectly. Cheers.”
He lifted the glass, drained half, and put it down, and Zeomtoril sat as Calidus walked off. The [Polymath] folded his arms, and the Faces joined him on the couch.
“Bah, ignore him. He gets like that. A damned genius, and whenever he makes something like that happen, he loses all interest. We ran a scam in a casino one time. Took in sixty thousand gold pieces in one week, and he just quit. Walked off!”
“Why?”
Zeomtoril was the only person who understood Calidus, and he answered the fascinated Faces.
“It’s too easy. He hates it when things go well. He’ll curse a storm up when things blow up in his face, but I think he’s enjoyed having to run this damn Guild more than anything in the last decade. He’d be a monster even among Reinharts, but he loses interest. He stopped playing chess when he realized he was better than most people in the world without trying.”
They watched Calidus wander off. A strange, unconventional Guildmaster for the Assassin’s Guild. An amusing, waddling duck to pit against the killing condor of his counterpart. But in that moment, Losmere wondered if the duck was just so funny and placid because it hadn’t had a reason to try harder.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart hated how adaptable his darn liver was. It took him a literal bottle of whiskey to become anything like buzzed enough to while the night away.
When he woke up, chugged a hangover cure, and reviewed some notes with Dorim, he found one thing to amuse him: Selys was going to Liscor.
“Do you think she’s fleeing or trying to warn someone, sir?”
Dorim was nervous, but Calidus just laughed.
“She’s getting what we need. Leave her. She knows she’s being followed. I might have fouled what she’s attempting with my own scheme. Well, we’ll just account for that if she fails and not hold it against her. How many denials and scandals have spread from my trick with the Wall Lord and [Princess]…whatsherface?”
He rubbed at his jowls as Dorim consulted his notes.
“Several, Lord Calidus. Would you like me to read them?”
“No, just places and people. Skip the rest.”
Calidus already didn’t care about his victory. It was as Zeomtoril had doubtless told everyone: boring. Dorim began to read.
“Well, a denial from the Eternal Throne about this recording, casting into doubt its authenticity. An interview where an Archmage Viltach acknowledged that even if the recording is legitimate, events could be faked—”
“Doesn’t change the facts. ‘I saw it, therefore I can’t be fooled’. Go on.”
“Denials from Salazsar, House Gemscale, and Walled Families—”
Calidus lifted his fingers and mimed conducting. As if this were an orchestra and he the maestro of scandals. He’d heard that Ulva and Petria Terland had been musically talented, actually. Maybe he’d take the day off, find some accounts and headshots of the two Terland twins, and take some ‘Calidus time’. It probably wouldn’t cheer him up, but it sounded fun in the moment.
Dorim read on.
“Denials from the King of Avel for some reason, Fetohep of Khelt—”
“Good for them.”
“—Pallass’ Sir Relz has issued a full retraction and apology, Lord Xitegen has requested an investigation into the forgery, the Assembly of Crafts has nullified its vote to condemn the indecency—”
Calidus Reinhart blinked. Then his head snapped around. He pointed at Dorim.
“Say what now? Wait, skip to the bottom, they always have a summary—what does it say about public sentiment? [Mood on the Streets]?”
He glanced around, frantic, and finally found a bottle of whiskey he hoped he hadn’t peed into last night. He took a huge gulp, and Dorim read.
“It says that public sentiment is now turning on the recording being a fake, Lord Calid—”
The [Lord] tried his best attempt at a Winebreath Blaster, but it just didn’t work without spontaneity. Damnit, he’d always wanted to do one.
Then he sat there for a moment, eyes flicking, and leapt out of bed. He grabbed Dorim, and his eyes sparkled suddenly. Coming alive again.
“How? Show me.”
 
——
 
The point of the sex-recording had been to hit the [Princess] and Wall Lord with something that denials wouldn’t fix.
Denials didn’t change what people had seen. If they hid away, the furor only grew worse. Calidus had seen similar scandals and engineered the recording to linger in the memory. Humiliate.
It’d reflect on Princess Lyonette du Marquin a lot worse than Wall Lord Ilvriss, and no one would trust their account. Even if the entire thing was debunked in a month’s time by Archmage Eldavin himself, ‘questions’ would linger, which meant people refused to switch the viewpoints they’d already convinced themselves were true, even when presented with an abundance of fact.
Even a trained Calanferian [Diplomat] would throw up upon seeing this kind of attack hit them. So—how had the [Princess]…?
She was out in public. Calidus stared at a recording of her, and from the darker streets, it had to be in the evening. Rain and a few streetlamps going up—
Liscor. Evening. This had to be right after the broadcast was going on. His eyes widened.
“Is that…?”
The [Princess] was sitting by herself in a café, some trendy place called ‘Barehoof Kitchens’, in outdoor seating which was a dead giveaway because it was raining and miserable. People were visibly staring at her, pointing, but she seemed utterly natural.
Perfect, [Flawless Acting], really. But even so, this was a stupid move. Anything she did would surely only fan the flames. The scrying spell jostled a bit; amateur recording. Probably someone with a scrying mirror. Calidus watched as her head turned.
“It’s staged.”
“How do you know?”
Zeomtoril was bleary-eyed but curious. Calidus snapped back.
“Because there’s no damn Thronebearer looming over her shoulder. Shut up, Zeomtoril!”
He watched as Lyonette du Marquin spotted who she was waiting for and got up.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss!”
No way. Jaws dropped. Calidus’ own hung open as none other than Wall Lord Ilvriss came striding down the street. He looked a bit windswept. Possibly like a Drake who’d just ridden hell-for-leather to the portal stone to get here. But he raised a hand as she lifted a parasol and stepped into the street.
She was wearing, Calidus realized, a red dress with a low-cut bosom. He admired it, then frowned.
“Wait a second, that’s practically the spitting image of the one we had in our recording—”
The Wall Lord had the same attire. He adjusted a suit as he stepped over. What they said wasn’t audible until the camera-holder scampered forwards with most of the street. Then Calidus picked up on the words.
“—to see you, darling.”
“Er, yes, Lyonette. Delighted to see you after so long. Now the secret’s out, I supposed there’s nothing for it.”
“It’s such a relief!”
Lyonette leaned against Ilvriss, raising one arm and resting her palm against the side of his face, a coquettish move of the sultry [Princess] waiting to be swept off her feet.
Only, that was how she moved. Oh yes, her arm rose, and she placed her palm against the side of Ilvriss’ face and leaned against him while looking up, but here was the thing.
That was an advanced move. Calidus had never seen anyone but an [Escort] do that, and it required timing, grace, a confidence in oneself, and a lot of conditions to pull off just right.
Do it any other way and you’d look like, well, someone awkwardly shoulder-checking Wall Lord Ilvriss, who stumbled, then raising her arm in a very awkward motion and slow-slapping his cheek.
She stared up at him, and Ilvriss did his best to appear entranced by her. Which wasn’t working because the [Princess]’ simmering hot look of carnal lust was hampered by her not really having one.
She did her best. It might have actually been a [Flawless Attempt]. She smoldered up at him, and then awkwardly let her hand drift down to his collar.
“I can’t wait to get you out of that suit. R-rawr.”
Calidus saw a passing Centaur’s face actually try to pucker inwards at ‘rawr’. The Wall Lord’s cheeks bulged, and he cough-laughed so loudly it sounded like an explosion. Lyonette turned bright red and elbowed him. Hard.
“You’re as riveting as always, Lyonette.”
“Riveting being the word you want to use, Ilvriss?”
“Ravishing?”
“I don’t think you know what that—let’s sit down, Ilvriss. Waitress!”
A one-eyed woman with an eyepatch came over as they went to their table. Ilvriss sat down. Lyonette sat in his lap. She straddled one leg. Realized that made her look like a ridiculous, overgrown child, then swung her legs over so she was sitting across his lap. Stared up at him and then at the plates that Chef Imani was putting down, deadpan.
Ilvriss poked a fork into a piece of shrimp.
“Er…here, my love. Keep your strength up for tonight.”
She opened her mouth, and he poked the side of her mouth, and she recoiled. Ilvriss went to fetch a napkin.
“Damn, I’m sorry—”
“You’d better have better aim than that, my dear. Tonight.”
Lyonette was getting annoyed, and at this point, the [Chef] cracked and had to walk away, covering her mouth. Lyonette put an arm around Ilvriss’ shoulder, or tried to. She yelped.
“Sorry. Neck spines.”
“How the hell am I supposed to—there!”
She slung an arm around his neck, and everyone realized that Lyonette was too short. So it more looked like she was putting Wall Lord Ilvriss into a one-armed supplex.
At this point, Calidus Reinhart’s mind told him exactly what she was doing. But he just kept watching. His mind, usually shouting, was just…observing. Blissfully silent. Admiring.
“Well, I can’t wait for tonight. Your dress is just beautiful, Lyonette. I can’t wait to tear it off you. Can’t wait.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss cleared his throat a few times, and Lyonette du Marquin’s eyes narrowed.
“You’re saying it like you don’t believe it, Wall Lord.”
“No, I’d love to ravish you, my sweet [Princess].”
“Not that. The dress.”
The Wall Lord hesitated, then took a bite of his food.
“Looking like a tomato really becomes you. And your skin tone. Lovely choice to put red on red hair. Away the dress shall go, for the good of worldly fashion and my own unbridled lust.”
Lyonette sat up and nearly headbutted him. She squirmed off his lap and gave him an elbow to the chest that looked less-than-accidental, then sat down. She grabbed a cup and drank.
“I didn’t chose the—I think I wear it well.”
“Oh, of course, my dear.”
“You’re hinting I don’t. With your tone.”
“That’s just how I talk. You have your daughter’s eye for fashion.”
Lyonette kicked Wall Lord Ilvriss. He bent over, then she hissed at him.
“And you don’t tear off a dress! Do you know how much this costs?”
“I have full faith a refund is in order, my dear. Weren’t you going to say something nice about me?”
“I admire the rain doing a splendid job of replacing the cologne you applied in adequate amounts.”
The two glared at each other until they glanced around and clearly remembered they were supposed to be flirting. Ilvriss smiled at her. Lyonette bared her teeth. She put a hand out. He put a claw on top of it.
They stared at hand and claw, and at that moment, whatever illusion anyone might have had about the two’s chemistry was being ruined by that most dreadful of things: reality. Lyonette exhaled.
“Listen, you. I do l—like you. With all my heart. Here.”
She got up and tried to fuss with his suit. And that was real—and so was him slapping her hands away.
“With respect, I can fix my own collar.”
“Don’t squirm, dear. It’s ruffled.”
“In which case, I rather think I can fix it. As the person the clothing was made for.”
“You have it ajar.”
“I’d be able to use that window as a mirror if you’d move out of the way.”
He glowered at her, then tried another smile. And Lyonette du Marquin…she’d gone for the sultry face-pat. The daring lap-sit. She made a come-hither motion.
He hesitated. Wait, me? She glared with her eyes, and he looked around at his audience, visibly lost. They stared back, like people watching someone get slowly run over by a wagon. Ilvriss hesitated, thought about it, and then reached for Lyonette’s right hand. He lifted it to his lips, smiling.
She yanked it out of his clawed hand so fast he kissed his own palm. Handed him her left one.
“I, ah, used that one to scrub the restrooms.”
Ilvriss elected not to kiss either hand. At this point, Calidus Reinhart was grinning, but in disbelief.
This is good. This is funny. This…works. But it cannot be all of it. One could easily point to this being staged. It was visibly an act, even if the pieces of truth were there. So how…?
Then there was a voice. A cheerful, loud voice. Someone obliviously interrupting the fake-real scene with the timing of an ox blundering through a ballroom.
“Lyonette! There you are!”
Lyonette twisted around and then froze. She leapt up.
“Pawn, I—”
Calidus Reinhart stiffened. So still he stopped breathing. And his mind began to collide with itself.
No. The file said—she wouldn’t. That would be—
The [Priest] was walking down the street. He lifted one of his four hands as his white robes, the thing that marked him out from other Antinium, shifted around him. Lyonette stood.
“Pawn, this really isn’t a good—are you back? From Khelt? I saw you there. Ilvriss, excuse me—”
“No, please, go ahead. And take your time.”
He was drinking coffee, watching. Utterly calm with the Antinium nearby. Lyonette stood, flustered, and met Pawn in the rain.
“How’d you get back so soon?”
“Faith provides, Lyonette.”
“Oh, don’t start with—I mean—I saw you. You were quite, um, brave.”
The [Princess] began to snap at Pawn, then glanced down at the ground. His mandibles opened.
“I wish I could have done more. The Prophet of God is very powerful. And King Fetohep is—”
“I know. I know you did your best. I’m just glad you made it back.”
“There was a lot of water between here and Chandrar. It was most unpleasant.”
He smiled at her. Lyonette gazed at Pawn, then stared at the water wetting his robes. She started, then dashed back to her table. Snatched up the parasol.
“You’re getting rained on. Here.”
She held the parasol over Pawn’s head. He went to take it with one of his four arms, and she slapped it down.
“Lyonette, it makes no sense for me not to carry the parasol. I have four hands to your two.”
“Pawn—just let me hold it. It’s not about arms.”
“Well, if you are so insistent on being inefficient…”
And then he fell silent. Lyonette looked him up and down. One-handed, she reached out and hugged him. Her arm barely went halfway around his back shell.
“You silly [Priest]. Why didn’t you tell me you were going? I know we’ve been fighting, but you could have died there. A continent away!”
“It was a debt owed. I didn’t want to alarm you. You don’t need more alarm after all that has happened.”
She slapped his arm. It made a loud thwack sound in the rain, and he jerked. She punched his shoulder.
“You fool! You might not visit, and we’re…it doesn’t matter. You will always matter to me. Always. Whatever happens, tell me. Okay? When that thing attacked you, I thought…”
She trailed off. They stood in the rain, and Pawn glanced around. He seemed to spot the crowd and smiled.
“It appears you have a lot of strange watchers, Lyonette. I am not ashamed, but they should be for eavesdropping. And some things of Khelt are secret. Would you allow me to take you out and have a drink? I could tell you what has gone on.”
“A drink? I was going to keep fake-flirting with Ilvriss—”
Lyonette wavered, and the Wall Lord held up his claws.
“No, please. Point made, I feel. If I have any more desire to do so, I’ll find a Rock Crab or something to take your place with the same level of acumen.”
She stuck her tongue out at him. Then threw up a middle finger. Pawn just took Lyonette’s arm.
“Lyonette, Wall Lord Ilvriss is a very helpful, considerate person.”
“Most times, Pawn. You clearly haven’t seen any scrying orbs recently, have you? Where, ah, where should we have a drink?”
“Wishdrinks?”
“I could do that. I notice…you were being close with a certain heir to Khelt. She seemed lovely. That’s very good for you, Pawn.”
He slowed and looked down at her. She glanced up at him, and after a moment, Pawn nodded.
“I may have danced. But I do appreciate you teaching me.”
“Oh? Kheltian dances are so slow. But charming. They feel like they have forever. Or used to. I’m learning some dances myself. Perhaps—do you remember the steps?”
She raised a hand, and he clasped it. Then they took a step down the street in an odd, non-perfect move. Antinium and Human, walking like it was a ballroom, trying to keep the parasol up, and both were smiling. Laughing, and Pawn said—
“If I do not, please, remind me.”
And then…someone turned off the scrying spell. Only then did Calidus Reinhart gasp for air and see it. All he said was—
“Beautiful.”
 
——
 
There were several levels why it worked. Ser Lormel, serving as Princess Ellet’s personal bodyguard and [Knight-Protector], had to break it down for the [Princess] when Ielane kept failing her for not getting all the nuances.
“It is not just that the [Princess] presented the audience with a truth that overcame the fiction, Princess Ellet. You did very well to notice it. But it was the inclusion of the Antinium at the end.”
“Is he really dating her? Really? I thought that was made up!”
Ellet jumped up and down on her bed, excited, and Lormel coughed.
“I could not say, Your Highness.”
“Ser Lormel, please—”
“That is not the point, Princess. Think on it. Why does it work?”
Ellet’s face screwed up, and she came to the conclusions Calidus had made in moments after some thought.
“Well, because…she looks like she actually cares for him. It’s because it’s a contrast. We see the truth in another way, right?”
Lormel smiled like he would at his own daughter, and her face lit up. He knelt.
“Not just that, Princess Ellet. Consider Drakes. The Walled Cities were wrathful at the idea of Wall Lord Ilvriss ‘selling out’ by sleeping with a Human, even a [Princess]. But what do they think when they see that?”
The young girl’s eyes lit up after some thought.
“They think…oh! That’s why they started denying it! Because if the [Princess] were even, possibly, one-in-a-million-chance seeing an Antinium—”
How could a Drake lose to that? Utterly preposterous. Literally inconceivable a Human would choose a bugman over Wall Lord Ilvriss.
In fact, to even insinuate that was such a huge insult to the Wall Lord in question that Sir Relz had personally issued a retraction. It could not be. Lormel smiled as Ellet puffed out her chest, delighted at reading all this.
And he was careful. Delicate, because he had to keep teaching the [Princess] despite everyone’s desire to maintain her innocence. Because she was still missing a few things, even if she’d mostly got it.
 
——
 
For one thing, the ‘accidental’ meeting of Pawn? Fake.
Fake all the way down. Pawn didn’t just happen to walk into Lyonette and Ilvriss like that. Would a [Princess] of Calanfer really be so unguarded like that with him and talk about clearly-private matters?
If you were like Ellet should be in Ielane’s estimation, you’d at least infer all that on first viewing. But if you were actually just…adequate, you’d realize the lie that got even the people who understood the other falsities:
That wasn’t Pawn.
A certain [Priest] was still in Khelt, still in Chandrar because ships didn’t move that fast, currently throwing a fit.
“I never would have said that! Who is that? I never object to her holding the parasol!”
A highly amused Pewerthe was observing him as he gobbled at the scrying orb, and Yellow Splatters had his face in his hands.
It wasn’t about him, as Lyonette would have told him directly. Indeed, she had helped write the lines ‘Pawn’ had spoken.
Once they’d finished their little charade and gone around a corner, Lyonette had stood on her tiptoes and kissed the actor on the cheek. She’d gone to the best one she could find, and it had been a shortlist of two.
In the end, she had to go with Rosencrantz. Because he was part of the staff, and because, well—
His name was literally Rosencrantz from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, the Shakespearean characters. Of course he could act!
The other candidate had been Silveran, but Lyonette had bet he might break character to use that ridiculous accent. Rosencrantz shrugged his robes off.
“These are very wet. I do not know how Pawn stands them. I assume that will do it, Miss Lyonette?”
“Adequately, Rosencrantz. We’ll monitor and do something tomorrow if needed. Thank you for playing your part. I owe you a drink at Wishdrinks after all! Something which the real Pawn would never think to do.”
She sighed. She hoped it hadn’t upset him if he’d seen it. Well, she suspected the first video would be more upsetting, fake as it was. She’d meant it. Just—Rosencrantz tilted his head.
“Pawn has never invited you to the hip and very cool establishment that I, myself, have desired to partake of? I gasp.”
She snorted.
“Let’s go see what they have. Liska tells me we’re very popular there.”
They walked off, shaking their heads. Rosencrantz glanced back where Wall Lord Ilvriss was just relaxing after his long ride. He’d taken this entire gambit on faith, and Lyonette really hadn’t hammed it up that much, making their flirting bad. Some of his comments had just been—mean! She sighed, and Rosencrantz spoke after a while.
“Miss Lyonette, why was a fake sex video of you and Wall Lord Ilvriss put out on the news?”
“Oh, who knows, Rosencrantz? According to Rose, it was ‘only a matter of time’. Earthers. So pretentious. I don’t count our enemies, do you?”
“I do it to sleep, Miss Lyonette. It is very soothing.”
 
——
 
Just like that, it was done. Calidus Reinhart saw more fallout, but the entire energy had been taken out of his plan.
He sat there afterwards. Thinking.
“They erased it. Destroyed it. Not in a week, not with—they exploded the entire thing. How?”
That was—insane. Either Calanfer had trained one of the best dissemblers in a thousand years, or it was that phenomenon. He considered.
Then—smiled.
Smiled before he went to accept Regis’ grumpy condolences and pretend he was all bummed about it. Smiled in a childish way that made him look more charming than all his lies. Purely delighted.
He wished he’d gone to Liscor. And he wondered why Selys had left.
Now he was more than interested. He began to request more information on what this Wall Lord was doing and sent a few Ranks to monitor the situation.
Purely to kill the opposing Guild, of course.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss walked through Liscor the day after the ‘whatever the heck that was’ sex scandal video. It might be playing in other cities, he didn’t know.
But Liscor had absorbed the chaos, identified it as coming from The Wandering Inn, and ignored it. They had bigger fish to fry.
Such as…Krshia Silverfang. Gnolls were shouting loudly outside her apartment, and Ilvriss winced as he heard some of the things she was being called. ‘Traitor’ being the nicest.
“Alrric always warned me that Gnolls could be dreadful towards each other, but they’re a minority, so I’d never have guessed…”
Well, it’s complicated. No one likes Lism at the inn. I think it’s gross too. That’s why you and Lyonette aren’t very interesting but this is, to Liscorians.
“Fair enough. Politics.”
Ilvriss had a helper for today’s mission. Mrsha. She felt bad about not joining him in the Cowpat Plains, which she still steadfastly refused to return to, so she was helping him acquire what he needed.
Namely…armor for Osthia. Ilvriss had been rattled by her near-death encounter with the undead. He couldn’t lose her, and even if Zail had sent equipment for her squad, be it so terrible of him, but he’d pay for the best for Osthia that no one else could afford.
“For myself as well, frankly. I’m not nearly as well-geared as I’d like to be. Merely Gold-rank because that’s the best money can buy.”
Merely Gold-rank. Wall Lord Ilvriss, do you ever fear you’ve gotten out of touch with ordinary people?
“I don’t believe I’ve ever been in touch with them, Mrsha.”
Touché. They got along well, the two of them. Anyways, people stopping Ilvriss to apologize or ask about the video, the election, this was all background noise. The two were on a mission.
Armor for Osthia. Or gear. Ilvriss could use a weapon or two, and he’d heard there was a Lady Desinee El around? A Kaalblade for Osthia might do well!
 
——
 
Lady Desinee El was here. And she had plenty of time for a rich Wall Lord, but she was entirely apologetic.
“Wall Lord, I have just sold my entire line of Kaalblades except for my sample glaive. The, ah, buyer didn’t want that.”
She looked rather pleased at that because she did have taste. Mrsha wrinkled her nose at the ridiculous weapon, and Ilvriss sighed.
“Well, I’d love to inquire about your new line—”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord! I can actually visit you with some samples. They’re being sped down by Courier, but I just sold everything out! Ten minutes ago, in fact.”
“Oh, what a shame. It must have been a large buyer.”
Lady Desinee El wore the smile of a successful saleswoman—that would show her husband, son, and Deilan!
“She was, but I do apologize—let me just ask where you are and I shall swing by! Er, when you say ‘Cowpat Plains’—is there a specific area?”
“Near the one town apparently in the area. Just ask for the damn Drakes.”
They left Desinee as Mrsha insulted the craftsmanship of the Kaalglaive, and Ilvriss opined someone who didn’t want to actually fight anything might find a use for it. So they ventured onwards.
“Acid jars aren’t being sold at the inn anymore? Really?”
Ilvriss was incredulous, but Mrsha rolled her eyes.
You know how it is. You move the inn and there’s not as many Acid Flies anymore. Plus, people aren’t idiots. They stole everything else Erin made; acid jars were just a matter of time. I hear some of them even breed ‘em, or try. Acid Flies are dangerous! It’ll cost ya, but even Erin agrees it’s not worth an Acid Fly Queen attacking. And they’re big, you know.
“Huh. Well, they might not be great against bone, but we also have a toilet problem and—excuse me? What do you mean, ‘sold out’?”
Someone had bought up all the stock at one store. Two hundred and thirty-nine acid jars, each one accounted for. And another store. And—by the time Mrsha and Ilvriss reached the third seller, they exchanged a look. Shrugged.
“Weird. Is this a curse?”
I sure hope not. Okay, let’s go to Pallass.
“Pallass? For what? Master Maughin isn’t a Pelt, no offense to him.”
Ilvriss’ snout wrinkled up, but Mrsha gave him a patient look.
Not metal, dumbass.
“I object to the name-calling, Mrsha. We are friends, aren’t we?”
Sorry. Not metal, you ignoramus. Pallass has another type of armor they have an abundance of—and probably just finished manufacturing given how darn hard it is to work!
Ilvriss thought about it, and then his eyes lit up.
“Of course. Frost Wyvern armor.”
 
——
 
Lightweight, frost-resistant—obviously—perfect for a mobile flier like Osthia herself. Strong, hard to manufacture, which was why suits of the armor had been slow to hit Pallass’ markets even long after the Frost Wyvern attack.
And currently—
“You’re kidding me. Sold out?”
The Gnoll representing a [Tanner] was hugely apologetic.
“Wall Lord, you literally just came too late. My buyer swooped in—didn’t even haggle! I’m sorry, but we already signed, and she took out the other finished sets for sale! Gnoll, Drake, every species’ configuration! By the way, if you and that [Princess] aren’t a thing, do you think she’s seeing…?”
You ain’t got a chance, buddy.
Mrsha handed the card to the crestfallen [Tanner], and they stalked out. Ilvriss scratched at his head.
“Okay, no offense Mrsha, but I think we’re cursed.”
I swear I haven’t used my luck powers! I shouldn’t be in the negative!
Mrsha protested as they stood together in the street. They were a bit noticeable, white Doombearer and Wall Lord, but safe with Ser Dalimont running interference with some of Ilvriss’ people. Everyone could stare and point, but the two were used to celebrity. Ilvriss felt bad Mrsha had to be guarded like this at all times, but he growled.
“Okay, I need something for the dig site! Something to reduce injuries and deaths! Think, Mrsha, think!”
Why do I gotta think for you? Hey! I know! Octavia!
Ilvriss wavered.
“Do you think she’d sell Saliss’ potions? Because I’d buy them, no matter what, but he famously doesn’t sell his battle potions on the open market.”
Mrsha began to stride towards the elevators.
Listen, Wall Lord Ilvriss, Octavia’s the one we want. Not Saliss. Think on it. She invented the Yellow Rivers cure. She’s been having her training-arc under Saliss for a year now or something, and she’s stayed at the inn. Whaddya think, she can’t make potions with the best?
Ilvriss’ eyes lit up.
“She might have mold-based unique potions. Ancestors, you’re right!”
They hurried off, high-fiving because this wasn’t something someone could just swoop in and buy. Of course, Mrsha was right.
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton had levelled. She had levelled under Saliss. She had levelled for making the Yellow Rivers cure.
Not as fast as she’d thought, but she’d realized that she’d kept levelling as the Yellow Rivers cure was used across the world. Not everyone gave her royalties or credit, but the overseer of levels did.
…And enough attention still came her way. Sometimes, someone would just…send her gold they claimed they owed her for helping with their city or them. The Yellow Rivers mold was being used to cure diseases. She made money.
A lot of money. More than she could have dreamed in Celum, and she had put it right back into being the ultimate apprentice. Saliss’ helper.
Frankly, it was only between making his potions that Octavia could experiment. But that was fine, actually. She was learning from Saliss of Lights himself, the greatest [Alchemist] who was working with seith.
She could wait. And all the little potions she’d made to copy Saliss’ materials—with her own ingredients of course—his Potions of Blast, high-level Potions of Invisibility, poisons, antidotes, a grab-bag of alchemical weapons that would have been able to outfit ten Gold-rank teams to the gills and still be leftover?
She beamed at Ilvriss and Mrsha.
“I just sold it all! Good thinking, Mrsha! I’m glad you lot came to me; I even cut a sweetheart deal, because, well, it was a lot of gold. Even for me!”
Mrsha and Ilvriss’ faces fell. Then grew confused.
Octavia, how is this good? Someone’s been buying all the battle stuff we need!
Octavia blinked at Mrsha and Ilvriss.
“Um. Yeah. She said she was. And I gave her a discount, so you’re covered.”
“Covered? How are we c—”
Ilvriss was confused until he snapped his fingers. Who came through with that much gold and knew to buy all these things? Let alone from Octavia? Desinee, the acid jars, the Wyvern armor, that was coincidence, but he relaxed.
“Lyonette. Of course. Or Nanette, that impish fashion disaster. We’ve been chasing ourselves, Mrsha! Did one of them say they’d be helping out?”
Mrsha slapped her forehead, grinned, and relaxed. Then she frowned, shook her head. But Octavia Cotton just beamed and jerked her thumb into the back of the modest shop that Saliss occasionally opened.
“Hah, you two really are all confused with that weird video. Er, what’s it about? I just heard people talking about it. Sorry, I haven’t been out of the laboratory for ages, and Selys just made me come out to sell my stock. Selys, are you still back there? C’mon, I said I’d package it all up for you! Say hi!”
Mrsha froze. Wall Lord Ilvriss didn’t know what was going on, so he was still smiling when a Drake slowly emerged from the backrooms, stuffing a potion into her bag of holding. She had two helpers, blank-faced Drakes, who strode out of the shop. Ser Dalimont eyed them, and Selys tried to walk straight past Mrsha until the girl held out a paw.
What are you doing, Selys?
“Mrsha. I’m a bit busy. Got to go.”
Selys walked around Mrsha, and the Gnoll spun, and her wand flickered in the air.
You lied to Octavia? Where’d you go? What are you doing with all that stuff? We need it!
Selys swirled at the door as Octavia made a confused sound. Her eyes narrowed, and she spat.
“You need it? The entire world doesn’t revolve around you, Mrsha. Tell your mother—if you ever—see you.”
She slammed the door, and Octavia’s mouth opened.
“Wait, but Selys said it was for you two!”
“She did?”
Ilvriss had a sinking feeling in his stomach, but Mrsha had raced out after Selys. She stood in the street as Ilvriss stepped out of the shop.
Selys doesn’t like us anymore, Ilvriss. She left Liscor behind. Even the Fortress Beavers.
“Damn. Really? Well, it’s an amazing coincidence she beat us to everything. Today of all days!”
Ilvriss didn’t get Mrsha’s anger, or guilt, until he remembered Tekshia Shivertail. Then he and Mrsha stood there. They might have softened, then, or talked about what Selys was owed or wondered why she needed all that.
Then Mrsha the Extremely Suspicious’ eyes narrowed. Look, there were inn-coincidences and then there was…she held up a card slowly.
Ilvriss, are you thinking what I’m thinking? If you’re gonna get super-armor, it’s obviously that Relic-class item that Silveran found while sewer-cleaning.
Ilvriss raised his brows.
“I don’t think Lyonette described it as Relic-class, but Selys wouldn’t know about that. Good idea. Let’s go.”
They walked, rather fast, towards the door leading back to Liscor. On the way, Mrsha stopped to ask if Liska had seen Selys. When they were told they’d just missed her, the two exchanged a glance.
 
——
 
“C’mon, Silveran! I’ll buy it! How much?”
“Miss Selys, I do not know what ‘Relic-class’ item I supposedly have. If it is my cleaning spray, I would call it Relic-class cleaning, yes, but—”
When Mrsha and Ilvriss pushed the door open to Silveran’s Cleaners, Selys was grabbing Silveran by the apron he wore. She whirled as they came in, as if she’d known they were on their way.
Rather as if one of her assistants had been using a speaking stone and relaying everything another one of her people had been hearing. Say, as a Wall Lord and Gnoll girl walked the cities.
Ser Dalimont appeared disgusted with himself, but finding an eavesdropper in the crowds wasn’t exactly easy. Ilvriss was disgusted with Selys; this was pretty low even for corporate espionage.
Mrsha…didn’t look at Selys. She just stared at the Drake’s feet and whirled.
Okay, Ilvriss, let’s go.
“Hey! Damnit, that was a ruse, wasn’t it? Don’t blame me for doing the obvious.”
Selys shouted. Ilvriss saw Mrsha push the door open. She wrote in the air.
Sorry for the trouble, Silveran. Inn stuff. This Drake is just trying to snipe our ideas. Probably get some good people killed. We’ve gotta go before she messes more stuff up.
Silveran’s mandibles opened. Selys’ eyes narrowed, and she let go of him. Ilvriss hesitated.
“Mrsha! How dare you say that to me? I helped raise you!”
Mrsha ignored Selys until the Drake was reaching for her shoulder. Then Ser Dalimont barred her path.
“Excuse me, Miss. Miss Mrsha is busy.”
“Out of my way, you overgrown golden thug. Mrsha, I’m talking to you—”
Mrsha didn’t glance at Selys. She only stopped when Dalimont grabbed Selys’ arm and eyed the two helpers who had come up behind her. She turned and wrote.
She’s not worth it, Dalimont. Go away, Selys. You’re doing your thing, clearly. I dunno what you’re doing, and I don’t want to know.
She rubbed at her head.
Could be a lot of things. Some of them good, I guess. And I guess you’re pretty smart to know we’re gonna do cool things. You remembered that much.
She stared at her feet as it rained down on them, and Selys just stood there. Mrsha was talking to her like—
“You have no idea what’s going on with me, Mrsha. Not that any of you even thought to ask. You have no clue where I’ve been, have you?”
Touring the north with Rhata and Haldagaz? They’re not here, are they? Shame, they’re Calruz’s, not yours. Afraid they’ll run off if you brought them? Haldagaz is smarter than you think, Selys.
Mrsha held up a card. Selys was actually speechless for a second. How dare Mrsha say that to her! She’d raised Mrsha!
She didn’t know about the [Palace of Fates]. She hadn’t known about the Goblin King, and even that had been hard to swallow for Selys, who’d bet it was an exaggeration, something close but not quite—she waited for Mrsha to turn around.
“Mrsha? Mrsha, I’m talking to you, little miss! Turn around and don’t you dare walk away from me!”
Mrsha’s head did turn, there. Her glower made Selys’ heart skip a beat.
My mom is the only one who gets to give me orders.
“I’m your aunt.”
The Gnoll wrote slowly and deliberately in the air.
No. Right now, you’re some Drake who decided to steal from Ilvriss and me. All nice and legal. I dunno why, but I’d believe you were doing something important. If you’d come out and met us in Octavia’s shop. Hiding from Ilvriss makes sense. He’s an important guy. Hiding from a kid is just low.
She turned back around and walked off. Selys nearly started shouting then and there, but Wall Lord Ilvriss walked past her.
“Excuse me, Miss Shivertail. I am sorry about the death of your grandmother. I wish I had been there at the funeral, but I was attempting to catch Erin’s ship and didn’t return to Liscor in time.”
He nodded his head to her. Selys stared up at him, eyes around and huge. Then she—
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had claw marks on his face and decided after a moment to sip the healing potion. Mrsha had said the inn had several and insisted he take more since Osthia hadn’t even had one.
“How did she get that good with her claws?”
“She is Zel Shivertail’s niece, sir. Mrsha, perhaps we should go back to the inn.”
Mrsha was stomping along in the rain, head bowed.
Can’t, Dalimont. Even if I want to, Selys is clearly taking gear. Who knows why? I literally don’t, but if we don’t hurry, she’ll buy out everything! She’s got the gold for it.
Ilvriss, wincing, had to agree. They were deploying secrecy spells now.
“What can we do, Mrsha? I need something! The charms I’ve heard about?”
Mrsha shook her head.
They’re not strong, not yet. Selys got a lot of stuff. Octavia’s potions legitimately might be the biggest win. Damn, damn, damn. It’d have to be…Pelt? But he never takes jobs, even from Erin! We have to try; Selys isn’t an idiot. Even without us, she’s worked with Pelt before, and Hedault.
“Let’s run, then. Hedault over Pelt? He seems more reliable.”
Yep. Fast as we can.
The two took off, Dalimont jogging after them.
 
——
 
Master Hedault’s shop was closed. Ever since he’d given up the wand to Ryoka in exchange for the obol, he’d not been out much—only to skateboard. He did have an arrangement to use the rooms in Invrisil’s Mage’s Guild as temporary meeting and workrooms. However, he’d soundproofed and locked it magically, and only by hammering on a doorbell he’d installed could they get his attention. When he finally did appear, he snapped.
“Selys sent a very inappropriately-urgent message to me this morning. I informed her of the same thing I told her representative. I have nothing I will show anyone. Yet.”
His eyes glinted, and Mrsha slowed and caught the whiff of—but she had already whirled.
Thanks, Hedault. Don’t trust Selys, she’s being a bad person. We have to run!
The [Enchanter] blinked at the words and then saw Ilvriss dash after Mrsha. He threw his hands up and slammed the door. If Selys had done that this morning, then they were too late. She’d already gotten to—
 
——
 
Master Pelt was sitting with his legs up in his folding chair by the forges, despite the heat of the day and the fires. Selys jumped when Mrsha and Ilvriss thundered up, but the Dwarf just stood.
“There you two idiots are. Took you long enough.”
Pelt, don’t sell to Selys if you’ve made an offer, she’s being suspicious!
Mrsha threw up a card, then eyed him.
Oh, you’re not. Ignore that. Damn pre-written cards.
Ilvriss nodded to Pelt.
“Master Pelt, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“Yup, the one having sex with Lyonette if all the damn scrying orbs are to be trusted. Eugh. I was forging! Nearly hit my own hand I was laughing so hard.”
Pelt was awfully casual today. He actually pulled up a chair and offered it to Mrsha.
“Found anything yet, Wall Lord? Mrsha, the inn got anything new for me?”
Uh, just aiolis.
“The hell’s that? Nah, nevermind. I’ll check it out. Sit, all of you.”
Selys interrupted, hopping from foot to foot and glancing at Ilvriss.
“Pelt, I have to run, and it’s urgent. We’re good business partners! If you’ve got anything or can make it—”
“Sit, Selys.”
She hesitated, and Pelt glanced at her. When she sat, the Dwarf stroked at his beard. He seemed…different. Or perhaps he’d picked up on the oddity of the moment. Pelt spoke deliberately as Emessa came around with some forged cups and lemon water.
“In a business deal with a master smith, such as me, you don’t run ahead of the competition. Forging isn’t that fast, even for me. You place your offer on the anvil, and the other does the same. Anything less devalues the work.”
Thank goodness for Pelt. Mrsha and Ilvriss relaxed. Selys grew stiffer.
“In that case, Pelt, name your price and I’ll pay more than they will.”
“Just like that?”
The Dwarf’s eyes gleamed for he was not immune to the lure of money. Selys jerked her chin at Mrsha and Ilvriss.
“I’m rich enough, and I hear the dig isn’t going well—I can beat a Wall Lord and the inn’s finances.”
Uh huh. That’s one bet I wouldn’t take right now.
Mrsha slapped the card down. But Pelt just lifted a hand.
“You know, it’s not always about the gold for me.”
Crash. Emessa dropped her tray of water cups, and he glared at her.
“Shut up, apprentice! I know the lot of you. I’m making gold! Let’s just say that I might have room for a project or two. Even a big one. Just depends on who needs it more. And go.”
He sat back, peering at them, and Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a look.
One of Ilvriss’ people nearly got smushed by a Bone Dreadnought. Ever heard of one of them? I haven’t. And he nearly got Hunter-Killered by Terland Golems.
“Highly unpleasant, Master Pelt. We are in the market for some armor.”
Ilvriss put in. The [Hammer of a Hundred Metals] whistled.
“Terlands? You’re as dumb as Erin. Dumber since she never ran screaming from one of them. Grandfathers—and you, Selys?”
He instantly ignored Ilvriss and Mrsha with his Pelt-ways, and Selys hesitated.
“I—can’t say. But I could use some armor or weapons. And my need is as urgent as Mrsha and Ilvriss’.”
“Can’t say? I assume I’m forging for you two Drakes as clients, but who does my work go to? I forge for the one who will wield it. Or wear it.”
His voice still had that too-pleasant cadence that had Mrsha’s fur standing on end. But Selys didn’t notice. She snapped, upset, as she glanced at Mrsha.
“Master Pelt, we’re business partners in Solar Cycles! You know I’m good for it, and we have an actual business relationship! Unlike Mrsha or Ilvriss! For the sake of that, please take my order! Ancestors, I’ll—you know what? I’ll give you 5% of my share in our business. How about that?”
She sat back, folded her arms, and smiled. Ilvriss felt uneasy. Solar Cycles was huge money even if they weren’t ever able to keep up with demand. But Mrsha was watching Pelt’s face, and suddenly, she relaxed.
Because the Dwarf just took a sip of water and turned to Mrsha.
“Is this about some other damn idiocy like the [Palace of Fates]? You’re not dragging her into that, are you, Wall Lord? Because here’s my hammer, and if you’d care to lie your head down on the anvil, I’ll give you a swing if you are.”
“No, no, absolutely not. Mrsha doesn’t even want to go near the place I’m digging. No Mrshas allowed.”
Ilvriss held up his claws. Pelt eyed him, then turned to Selys.
“Heard about the [Palace]? Or been back to Solar Cycles? I heard from that, er, Rinli there’s good projects happening. Nothing to do with me—bit interesting, but I hate gears, and they found a useful workaround.”
He nodded at Mrsha, and Selys frowned.
“What palace? No, I wasn’t there, Pelt. Listen—”
Mrsha broke in.
You’re a fan, Pelt? I thought you’d say ‘it ain’t real metal, so it’s all shite! Bugger it!’
He actually grinned at her.
“Why’d I do that, you half-baked chalk beansprout? Anything that doesn’t waste my metals is good. When Kevin makes it work and needs it made of real material, he’ll come begging.”
“Kevin? Pelt, Kevin’s dead.”
Selys interjected, voice suddenly bleak. Pelt just stared at Mrsha, and Selys’ eyes flicked from him to Mrsha.
“He’s—he’s dead. There’s no way. Was he actually—?”
Pelt stood and nodded to his forge.
“Too many eyes out here, and ears. Let’s discuss what you two want inside. I’m not smithing for an army, but I’ll see about something, Wall Lord. It’ll cost you, and I have some requirements, but—”
He was walking past Selys when she reached out and grabbed his arm.
“Master Pelt! Wait, what about my offer? I’ll beat anything they have! Didn’t you hear me about the shares?”
He glanced down at Selys. And still, too-gently, he patted her claw and took it off his arm.
“I heard, Miss Selys Shivertail. And I thank you for reminding me about our business. I don’t know the legal whatsits and don’t care to. But it strikes me that once I make Emessa sit down with Rinli, we’ll figure out a way to work it. Either we buy your contract out or we’ll just stop working together. She can always hire my forge direct, same with Hedault.”
“Wh-what?”
Selys blinked up at him, not entirely trusting her earholes. Then she paled.
“What are you saying? Pelt! You know me!”
She leapt up, and Pelt nodded. He looked her up and down, and now she saw the deliberateness of how he was moving and speaking. Like a slow hammer upon the anvil, but Pelt’s hammer was never slow. Yet he placed it now, just so.
“Yes. Yes I do, Selys. I thought you were just running up in a damn flurry, like Kevin or even Hedault when he has an idea. Until a certain [Knight] there sent Emessa a [Message].”
He jerked at Ser Dalimont, who executed a bow as Pelt continued.
“Then I thought to myself, ‘I should wait to see’. Haste ruins metals. A smith must be sure when he does not know, to not ruin everything. But I do see. We’ve known each other. I’ve liked your harassing, annoying ways as well as Erin. And in truth, I like this grub-stealing, annoying little pest less, even more now she talks.”
He pointed a fat finger at Mrsha, who raised a paw, then lowered it. But Pelt’s voice was increasing in volume ever so slightly. Like the rumble of a volcano.
“It’s one thing to quarrel. Another to lie to me or call on bonds of friendship forged when it gets in the way of another. Did you hear that Wall Lord? Bodyguard of his got stomped on by a Bone something? And a Terland Hunter-Killer?”
Selys’ eyes flicked to Ilvriss.
“That’s—bad, yes. But I need—”
“Bad. Bad? Even we in Deríthal-Vel know about the damn Terland Golems. We helped make them. Killing machines, and I know stories of the bastards coming at us in the mountains, slicing even Adamantium! Now, I’m no warrior. I don’t do charity. But when that girl comes to me and says it’s life or death, give me a weapon, I’ll listen, even if I curse her out! Yet you come here, to my forge and face, and say you can’t say why, only give me a weapon—”
“It’s as life-or-death as Mrsha and Ilvriss’ problems, Pelt!”
Selys shouted, but the Dwarf was getting louder. Face redder.
“Then why didn’t you damn well talk it out and figure out who’s closer to meeting their Ancestors first before running here? You’re not even looking at her. Since I’m no fool with clay between my ears, you don’t even know about the damn [Palace]. I wasn’t there, but you don’t even know. Not about Kevin, not about anything else!”
His voice was shaking the forge now. Selys was backing up, clearly ready to run because Pelt was getting angry. Cut her losses and go. But that last name caught her.
Kevin. She half-spun at the door. Pelt was fury, hammer in hand, and the two bodyguards she had were nervous, hands on their belt-knives, but she stopped.
“Kevin. He’s actually alive? He—”
For a second. Just a second, tears were in her eyes. Relief and joy, and Pelt’s wrath abated, and Mrsha turned. Ilvriss saw Selys faltering. Nearly fall over—
And then her head came up. Her eyes narrowed, and she spoke.
“She did that. Didn’t she? Erin. Is she back? Is it a Skill? Did she bring back Kevin, somehow? And not Tekshia? Did she dare to do that?”
She whirled to Ilvriss, Mrsha, Pelt, and all of them stared at her. Selys’ scales flushed.
“What did she do this time? I should have known she’d only reserve her miracles for her real friends, for—”
Whatever she was about to say next, and she was ranting, eyes widening, nostrils flaring, was mercifully lost to Mrsha. Mercifully, for Pelt walked over to his anvil and struck it.
However he did it, the iron rang like a gong, and everyone recoiled. Selys backed up, claws over her ears, and when Mrsha could hear, Pelt just stood there.
“Get out of my forge. I don’t have time for this. This is why I don’t make friends.”
He sat on the anvil, and Selys opened her mouth. He raised the hammer, and Mrsha felt like the High Passes shook before the weight of that simple mallet. Selys Shivertail gaped at him, then ran.
She was crying. But Pelt, Mrsha, Ilvriss, only stood there. Mrsha hadn’t told Selys she’d died. Or about the terrible, infinite worlds being made or breaking. Maybe it would have changed the Drake’s mind.
Right now, Mrsha didn’t want it to change. After a moment, Pelt beckoned them over.
“Right. Let’s talk business. Better that than anything about what just happened.”
After a while, Mrsha and Ilvriss nodded.
 
——
 
Pelt had a surprise for them. And it was this. After Emessa had come back with more water—and told the Watch the earthquake had been an accident—and Mrsha’s heart stopped beating so fast, Pelt hit them with a shock, probably to be kind. In his way.
“I levelled up.”
Ilvriss’ cheeks bulged—and he swallowed the water. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Pelt nodded.
“Must be catching. Like a damn plague. Well, I’ll take it. I am a [Hammer of a Hundred Metals]. Level 57. It’s secret, obviously. Tell anyone and I’ll break your kneecaps into three pieces.”
He’d once told Erin he’d never reach higher levels! He’d always seemed like he was at the peak of mastery—Mrsha wavered, then exploded.
Pelt! That’s crazy! What did you make?
Surely it had to be something extraordinary! But the Dwarf just hmmed.
“Aside from some magical gear with some flames? Teaching other [Smiths]? Nothing much. Made an Adamantium piece the other day. Just breaking in a forge to smith it. But it’s not been anything made of magical metal.”
“Then how? Simply accumulation over, what, a decade?”
Ilvriss broke in, and Pelt sighed.
“It’s not fun doing guessing games because I don’t respect your knowledge of smithing. I’ll just tell you. Recall that big event on the television? Pawn fighting a bunch of idiots in Chandrar?”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. Ilvriss nodded. Pelt tapped his chest.
“That censer he’s wielding. A few of the other items they carry? I made that. Me. Wasn’t hard in terms of pure craft, though I put my art into it. Wasn’t hard in terms of metal. But it was what was in the metal that counted.”
He stared at his hammer. Twirling it in one hand.
“Substance. Meaning. The thing he had. Forgemaster Taxus, the only Dwarf better’n me. I always swore I’d beat him with purity of metal. Well, I forsook that oath, and I suppose it’s not like I can’t learn. So there it is. I’m learning a new skill.”
He peered up, and Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a glance. Ilvriss croaked.
“When you say meaning in metal—”
“Oh, I reckon it’s all around us. In the damn charms that Lord Mireden talks about. The stuff Pawn has. Faith and whatsit. I don’t need it to use it. Not that I’m good at seeing it or moving it. Now I’m thinking back to all that bastard prattled about, and I’m just…searching for a challenge. So. Got any, uh, whatsit to forge? You provide it, I make something.”
Mrsha glanced at Ilvriss again. Ilvriss glanced at her. Both of them looked at Pelt, and the Dwarf paused. He eyed them.
“…You ain’t got any of it, do you?”
No, I’ve got plenty of luck or—witches have it in their hats!
“I’ll just, uh, you know, we might have something at the inn. In Erin’s room?”
Pelt rubbed at his forehead. Sighed. Then Ilvriss had an idea.
“Wait. Would a memorial for the dead with a bunch of painted faces, er, work?”
Ilvriss and Mrsha turned to him, and Ilvriss clarified.
“Not the actual works. I think Osthia would kill me. But perhaps there’s some stuff there?”
Pelt scratched at his beard.
“Stone. Damn hard to work just stone. But he did it.”
Mrsha threw up a paw.
How do you feel about broken pieces of lightning-blades from a [Garden of Sanctuary] where they were planted in the mud by the owner in some awesomely-cool tribute to the fallen?
The Dwarf leaned back in his chair.
“Get it to me, and I’ll work on something. Sword, shield—you have to ‘feel the intent’ to make the thing. Damn bastard’s got me speaking like a [Sage]. Alright. I’m hired. I think I’ll charge you as if it’s made of Adamantium and then double that.”
He beamed and held out a hand to shake. Mrsha almost raised her paw, then nudged Ilvriss.
He really didn’t want to take Pelt’s hand.
 
——
 
Okay, magical swords of both surpassing metal and meaning were all very well, but they were only hypotheticals. Ilvriss was very heartened by the arrangement even if he personally feared being murdered by Alrric and his father for how much he might pay.
But they needed something now! He didn’t want to return empty-handed, and partly that was to spite Selys. That had truly made him upset. He understood her anger, he did. Losing a grandmother…
But the way she hadn’t even asked about Mrsha and assumed Erin was behind—and her assumptions about who Erin would choose!
I chose. Not Erin. And if I had a choice, Tekshia would be on that list. Maybe not near the top, but Selys just assumed it was Erin. Assumed everything. I’m not dealing with her. Let’s just do your thing and talk about it later.
Mrsha was the angrier of the two. But she actually was out of ideas as they walked around, upset as she was. Ilvriss looked around.
“Do you have any last inclinations on who to approach?”
Mrsha put her paws in the pockets of her kilt. She glared at the ground and then turned her head.
No. Sorry.
That was alright. Ilvriss felt bad for relying on Mrsha so much. So he did some thinking. They’d been damn well sniped! This was so corporate he felt like a fool, but he hadn’t thought he’d have a rival in Liscor!
Corporate…yes, that was Selys. So he had a thought and then smiled nastily.
“Mrsha? It’s been unpleasant having the shockwool pulled over our eyes. But what if we copied our opponents? It clearly worked, and if we’re decently smart, she might have an idea or two. Wouldn’t she?”
Mrsha’s head snapped up. Then she blinked, and they turned to Dalimont. The Thronebearer gave them an approving look.
 
——-
 
Finding Selys Shivertail wasn’t the hardest thing in the world. All they had to do was ask Liska where Selys had gone. Then you just had to trail her through the streets, and Mrsha’s nose, outside of the Cowpat Plains, could work even in a rainy city.
As it so happened, Selys Shivertail did have one final idea of where to go that Mrsha hadn’t thought of, mad as she was. And as it so happened, her absence from the inn had also jeopardized this particular crafter.
Honored Deskie had been polite, but insistent that she know exactly what Selys needed her threads for or that Selys bring someone from the inn if she could not explain. The Drake had been trying to think of someone to bribe or trick into helping her and stomping down the street when she walked past a trio of people.
Wall Lord Ilvriss, Mrsha, and Ser Dalimont walked past Selys into Honored Deskie’s compound. The Drake turned pale under her scales. She began to shout—then just whirled.
“Get me my carriage! We’re going back!”
She stormed off.
 
——
 
“You seem upset, Mrsha. I take it that was not a pleasant encounter, that Drake? Here, Wall Lord.”
He ate some silkap as Mrsha sat there, staring at Deskie’s looms. The Gnoll [Magical Spinner] was kindly, if clearly tired. She massaged her back.
“One could wish Inkarr had made an automatic back massager, not just a spinning wheel!”
They got those in Earth, apparently.
“Really? I should have never left the Meeting of Tribes. Ah, well, but I do like my bed and home here. Community is community; the Silverfangs who went north might be stuck to the old ways too much. Then again—I am merely old. So, you have come to me for a wondrous item, one which you do not know about, but you wish me to produce with a wave of my paws.”
She waved her paws, and Ilvriss blushed.
“I apologize, Honored Deskie. It’s just that I have urgent need and not much foresight.”
She popped some bread into her mouth and shrugged.
“Well, I have plenty of foresight and aftersight and not much vigor to run around. So you are in luck, yes? I will sell you a tunic. Hrr. Eighty thousand gold pieces, since we owe Salazsar a boon, and two crates as tall as I am of magical gemstones of my choosing.”
Neither Mrsha nor Ilvriss blinked at the price, which put Honored Deskie out a bit.
“…Are prices truly going up that much?”
“A tunic, Honored Deskie? May I hope it’s magical?”
For answer, Honored Deskie rose and beckoned them over to something. A spool of thread, which Mrsha found quite familiar. She stared at the vivid coloration and recalled the ugliest dress in the world. Erin’s find in a certain shop. Cormeng’s.
A long while back, it seemed. But Honored Deskie had been testing the thread. Only…there hadn’t been so much of it back then, had there? The Gnoll woman smiled.
“It is made of a gemstone. Which one, and the rest of it, I shall not say. Only to announce that I have levelled and answered a challenge thrown across the ages. This thread I call ‘ikarr’-thread. Because I can play the exact same game as that child.”
Her eyes twinkled. Mrsha reached out with a paw, then hesitated and asked permission. Deskie let her touch it, and Mrsha rubbed at it and made a face.
It’s a bit prickly.
Ilvriss had to agree. Deskie herself nodded.
“So it is. Hellish on fur. I have a patch—it’s covered in hairs, you see, because it just rips them out, even when I try to make it fine as can be. I’ll sew a lining on the inside, and even then, it’s better on a Drake because it will be so annoying. A shame. But, on the other hand, it barely breaks.”
Casually, she handed a furry patch to Ilvriss, and he glanced at her. Then asked permission to try and cut it with Ser Dalimont.
 
——
 
After ten minutes of watching Ilvriss and Ser Dalimont hack at the piece of cloth in the rain, which was quite amusing, they came in, and Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“A tunic, you said?”
“One imagines it might be quite stabproof. Even impact-proof; it ripples when struck. There’s too much hair on this sample, but I intend to make as much as I can. A tunic will get me a second level, I think, and practice. We’ll take a recording of people trying to cut it apart for advertisement. Then I’ll just sell a bolt of it to Nerrhavia’s Fallen and roll in a pile of gold.”
Deskie waited. Mrsha’s ears perked up, and Ilvriss sat up. A second—
When neither one burst into wild applause, Deskie’s ears flattened.
“Oh come now. I am over Level 50! Surely that merits a gasp?”
“Er, we just spoke with Master Pelt, Honored Deskie, and if our reactions are a tad bit—”
She threw a spindle at Ilvriss’ head she was so annoyed.
 
——
 
In the end, Ilvriss organized a semi-permanent contract with Deskie for gems, since every instinct in him was screaming for that, and she told him to send Osthia here so Deskie could take measurements.
“I won’t be able to make much, Wall Lord, and I am sure it has weaknesses—fur being one of them. It may, frankly, be better-used as bindings for armor, not the armor itself, given how expensive it is. But someone should have armor fit for legends, and Deskie the Spinner shall leave that mark. Arrogant as it may be.”
And that was that. Mrsha and Ilvriss high-fived and stood there.
“Magicthread tunic, magic item from Pelt.”
Ilvriss exhaled as he stared up into the rain. Mrsha nodded.
We did great.
After a moment, both of them regarded each other.
“So about Selys—I’m sorry—”
Selys was being crazy. Worse than Numbtongue in a way.
They stood there, and the triumph faded. Ilvriss wiped at his forehead.
“…Some days are like that, Mrsha. It reminds me of my father. Which I know isn’t complimentary, but—shall we get a drink? I’m buying. Wishdrinks?”
He jerked a thumb, and Mrsha thought about it.
Tails and Scales? Rufelt does a mean non-alcoholic cocktail, and his gravity drinks are awesome. Plus, the cooking’s better. Lyonette loves the idea of Wishdrinks because she likes the staff being pretty. She thinks food should come in half-portion sizes.
“I did notice that. You’re right when you’re right, Mrsha. She’s feeding you correctly, isn’t she?”
They trooped off in the rain with Ser Dalimont smacking his lips and thinking of what he’d order. Mrsha nodded.
Nearly starving to death has corrected her weird thing about me being too heavy. You know, I stopped stealing food when she finally fed me more? I actually was hungry.
“Astonishing. I should have a word with her about that. You want me to?”
Eh, she’s a [Princess]. They’re all malnourished. But I tell you what, I am going to slam the first three non-alcoholic cocktails. What a rough one.
They walked off, at least able to talk and joke in each other’s company.
Selys…
Selys went back home. To a Guild of Assassins. And death. It was just good she didn’t care about them, the Ranks. It was a good thing she was practical.
 
[Vice Guildmistress Level 26!]
[Skill – Organized Armory Obtained!]
 
——
 
Selys had banned the Ranks from mentioning anything about Kevin or the inn to Calidus. Not that she thought they even understood the context. Not that they deserved Selys doing that for them. But she was better than they were.
She was angry the entire ride back, which took over two days in Wistram’s carriage. Not that she spent it idle; she channeled her rage into her new job, which was levelling her.
She’d already taken the assets of her Assassin’s Guild and begun allocating them. Obviously, you kept an emergency stash, but Selys had spent large amounts of her own money and Calidus’—nothing like giving the Ranks and Faces some treats to keep them happy, right?
The Drake observed the four Ranks who’d come with her as bodyguards inspecting their new gear. Acid jars, Octavia’s potions, Wyvern armor and Shield Spider chitin shields and even a dagger. They ignored the one made of glossy black material until Selys commented.
“The dagger is as good as steel. It’s made of Shield Spider chitin, and it’s grooved to allow for maximum poison seepage when you stab. The artisan who made it said as much to me; not a tool for anyone but a poison-user.”
Then one of the Ranks took the dagger and added it to her belt. Happy. Like an Antinium with a mop. Happy to have something.
In the same vein, Selys kept giving orders. Casualties today? 14. Yikes. The rival [Blademaster] Face had sliced up another group of Ranks. Selys shook her head, assigned new patrols to investigate reports of enemies and made a few speaking stone calls.
“…Yes. Yes, I want a huge one installed in, uh…Lord Calidus’ estates. Look it up. Selys Shivertail, that’s correct. No, I won’t hold. Look me up. I’m Zel Shivertail’s niece, the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate? Yeah, I thought that would ring a bell. I am serious. And so is he. He’d love a huge installation in his town. Capacity? Let’s call it…three hundred in each section and all the small ones like Pallass has? Okay, tell me the budget. Okay.”
Selys listened. Then she spoke.
“Good, have your people heading out to us—okay. No, I understand it’s the spring. Busy times, yes, yes. Okay, I’ll double the price if we’re first on the list and you do a good job.”
Another pause. She rolled her eyes as she explained.
“We’ll get a contract done at the Merchant’s Guild. Quality work. No mistakes. You mess up, it comes out of your fee because I’m doubling it. You do it fast, without skimping, or I’ll have the Merchant’s Guild on your tail. If you’re honest, take the job. Double. Yes, double. Yes, the Merchant’s Guild would credit it on mine or Calidus’ accounts. Tell you what, you double-check, then get back to me. Forwards any questions to Lagrisse of the Adventurer’s Guild in Isbeut.”
She liked having useful subordinates. And Selys was also used to getting her way, even if her method to that was the application of lots of gold. Plenty of people wanted to rip you off or take your money and do poor work. The solution to that was to have someone else breathing down their necks. Apply more gold, not less, with no avenues for wastage and you eventually weighed down what you wanted with so much gold a quality result was squeezed out due to all the pressure.
This time, the Guildmistress noticed the Ranks eying her, though they pretended to be just inspecting their gear for the umpteenth time after her call.
“Interested? You—name? Go.”
She pointed, and the female Rank bowed her head slightly.
“Chaiste, Guildmistress. A…hot spring?”
“I thought you’d enjoy it. Chandrarians don’t bathe in water often, do they?”
“They do in Lailight Scintillation. Maybe Khelt or a rich place if it’s not on the coast. I have never had a…bath in hot water.”
Selys smiled at the dusky-skinned Human woman.
“Well, you’ll have full access after it’s set up. It’ll take time. Just another amenity. The Faces will have private baths.”
Silence. But the Ranks were changing. After a moment, Chaiste raised a hand.
“Guildmistress, question.”
“Go ahead.”
“Is a private bath…good?”
Selys thought about it and smiled.
“Better than having to share space with someone else? Of course. You can splash around, relax without feeling like you’re needing to be sociable, bring company—we’ll even have some fancy baths. I’ve paid for all of them. Some will have soap magic in them. Huge bubbles, wave action—they’ll be popular, I have no doubt. So Faces will be able to reserve what they want.”
Privilege was power. Another Drake concept—well, universal, really. The Ranks seemed intrigued by this idea, and they sat back, imagining what hot springs would be like. And Selys thought—got you.
“Like your new toys?”
“Yes, Guildmistress. The acid is very potent.”
“Liscorian specialty. This is just the first wave of gear, of course. For our fight with the other Guilds. Going to throw it at them?”
“No, Guildmistress. Ranks dodge.”
“Ah.”
“…It’s good for blades. [Coat Blades]. Or spraying it.”
“Nasty. I can see that being a lot more effective. And the Wyvern armor fits well?”
They really liked that. They kept shifting around in it, testing the mobility of the light, sturdy armor.
“It won’t let a regular blade stab us, Guildmistress.”
“Keeps you alive longer, right? Probably makes you way better than the Ranks the other Guild has. That’s why Lord Calidus and my Guild is the best. Tell your friends—er, the other Ranks. In time, I want this to be standard-gear for all the Ranks.”
More silence, and Selys added slyly.
“So imagine what the Faces get.”
All of them gave her that unsettling, blank-faced stare, but there was a shift in it now. A little bit of eagerness. She imagined it was like having puppy-Crelers or something. Or again, Antinium. Maybe this was how…that woman…felt with her Goblins. Raising them up so they were useful. Yeah.
Selys had been dealt a bad hand, but she was turning it into gold, just like always. She settled back in her carriage and kept giving orders until she rolled into Isbeut. Then she hopped out of the carriage, stretched out her back with a groan, and sauntered into the Adventurer’s Guild.
“I’m back. I brought a bunch of snacks. Here are the ones for the rats, Pilana. Rhata, Haldagaz, it was fun. Too bad you couldn’t come, but I had a giant white rat and a purple one harassing me. Well…productive. Anything new? No, wait, Lagrisse will tell me. Hey, I need hands to unload my carriage! Jump fast—you might get some new gear!”
The Ranks in the Guild stirred as she walked in, and Pilana, manning the desk in the fake Adventurer’s Guild, jumped. Two rats raced about the counters, squeaking insults that Selys ignored. They had little beds and cute little walkways so they could scamper around the Guild, and she’d had holes bored in the walls so they could race about.
Mascots, you see? And the Ranks did get up and begin to unload the carriages. Not just because they were going to do everything Selys wanted, but because they knew her.
When she said ‘new gear’, they listened. Even one of the Faces appeared to inspect the items.
“Guildmistress, nothing new to, um, report. J-just a few wounded adventurers. And we’ve been clearing monster requests like crazy. Some of the other regions have heard and actually sent over some requests. Should I…?”
“Put them up, Pilana.”
That pleased Selys. She strolled through the doors into the real Assassin’s Guild in the back. They were right next to the Runner’s Guild, and Selys had organized it such that the two guilds just met in the back. So the fake Runners and adventurers would be able to report into the real Guild.
It was pretty swanky if Selys said so herself. Lagrisse had described the old Assassin’s Guild like some kind of morbid cult. Black stone, huge themed chambers with shadows and macabre decorations. Timid underlings scurrying about while the [Assassins] moved in concert above them like a flock of ravens, living in the mystique and shadows of ancient stone.
Selys thought all that sounded stupid and hard to clean. She had copied Wishdrinks’ aesthetic. And the Merchant’s Guild.
Carpeted floors, rich wood tables, plenty of seating, a bar run by a very nervous [Bartender], food from the restaurant ready to be served, a lounge, rec rooms, even an ‘outdoor’ patio that was just cunning illusion spells. And the second floor, which was in progress, would be even more exclusive. Faces only. Selys would move her office up there and put the armory and even more good stuff in the top floors.
The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus did that; Selys stole the design unabashedly, and when she gazed around and saw the organized desks where Lagrisse and his peers were waiting to assign [Assassins] to their targets, she felt proud.
It’s not what you’d approve of, Grandmother, but look, I can run a damn Guild! Selys walked over and leaned on the counter.
“Anything I missed, Lagrisse? Too important for our communication spells?”
They had encrypted [Message] spells which used black vellum—stylish, if sometimes hard on the eyes with the bright, white lettering. He bowed his head.
“Nothing aside from the casualties, Guildmistress. The Blade of Harvests intercepted the Ranks when they were pursuing enemy [Assassins].”
“Yeah, I know. Shame.”
Don’t let it affect you. Selys pushed them out of her thoughts. She was doing the best she could for the Ranks. She nodded to him.
“Try to keep an eye on him. Do we at least have the dossier on who this guy is?”
“Yes, Guildmistress. For your perusal. We have his old records—”
Selys snatched the papers, read idly, and snorted.
“Hapiie Leverleaf? Ancestors, what a name.”
“Likely a cover identity he stuck with, Guildmistress. His level—”
“Yeah, yeah. Level 47 [Blademaster of Harvests]. Perfect for mass-kills, sucks up his enemy’s blood—eugh, why couldn’t we have gotten him? Calidus better have a plan for him. Okay, nevermind all that. I’ve brought equipment. Wyvern armor, acid jars, high-grade potions—the works.”
Lagrisse’s eyes lit up with real interest.
“Truly, Guildmistress? I knew you were at Pallass and Invrisil, but I thought—it is hard to acquire that much material, even with gold. And the New Lands meant it was already scarce.”
She winked at him, ignoring Mrsha’s betrayed face which flashed into her mind.
“I’m good at my job, Lagrisse. Now, I want the Wyvern Armor issued to every Face, then we’ll assign the remaining highest-level Ranks. Save, uh, ten sets for our armory. Acid jars are for everyone, first come, first serve. We can buy more, and I’ve set up a pipeline. Do an inventory of potions, and we’ll probably allocate them the same way.”
“At once, Guildmistress.”
“Excellent. Oh, and if you and any of the staff you like see something you want, write it down and I’ll approve it.”
Lagrisse was dangerous enough himself, and rewarding the staff made them happy. The risks of uncontrollable Ranks were there—Selys smiled as the man paused, then offered her that slice of a smile he was good at.
Ancestors, I’m a genius. She stretched.
“I am tired from my trip. I’ll probably turn in early, then come up with a countermeasure against this damn [Blademaster] and check in with Calidus when I wake unless he wants me this instant. Anything else for me?”
“Nothing, Guildmistress. Here are the outstanding issues the Guild is facing—”
He held up a sheet, and Selys ran down the list. She stopped once and sighed.
“Oh, the wounded Ranks who survived that [Blademaster]. How many are going to make it?”
“His blade was poisoned, Guildmistress, and they’ve all lost limbs or were stabbed internally…one in five chances at most?”
“Are they on the way to House Walchaís?”
“They won’t make the journey before the poison kills them, Guildmistress.”
Selys cursed in annoyance. It wasn’t the first time this issue had come up. Even with Bethal’s [Healers]—who had weird new limits—getting someone to them before they expired was the issue.
“Damn, I want some of those [Healers] here, then! Send a [Message] to Lady Bethal politely asking if she’ll send a trainee or something. Or we kidnap them? So the wounded Ranks are dead?”
Lagrisse was as businesslike as she was.
“They’ll counterlevel and fight the poisons off or be dead by morning, Guildmistress. There is a logic to letting Ranks tough it out. It’s a free level or two if they make it.”
“I guess your Guild does have its ways for a reason. Then I’ll at least talk to them.”
Selys steeled herself. It said there were six casualties who’d survived. At least the Ranks seemed to regard their own deaths like, again, the Antinium or Goblins. She strode towards the infirmary and pushed the doors open. She saw figures lying in beds, one of them a crystal-healing bed purchased at extreme expense.
No access to easy healing potions. Calidus was trying to buy Antinium healing scrolls or get a [Restoration] mage, but they’d probably have to train up an [Assassin]-[Mage] themselves. So this lot had to just suck it up and heal naturally with the cruelty of needle and thread. Maybe they’d find a good [Doctor], but…
Selys didn’t saunter over to the wounded Ranks. She wasn’t heartless. But she approached in a brisk, businesslike manner. It was funny. They sort of respected that.
“Ranks, I know you’re on death’s door. I know you’ve been wounded against a superior Face. For that, the Guild will remember your deeds. If you survive, even crippled, I’ll have a job for you. I don’t toss away loyalty or bravery. So, survive. Level, and we’re going to win this thing. Got it?”
That was her offer to them—not compassion, not Erin’s endless outpouring of sympathy and grief, but just practicality. I will be a better future than you can imagine, if only by contrast. 
I am better than Roshal. Selys almost appreciated the slave-nation for lowering the bar so far, and she saw the appeal of their programs. They made it so easy. All she had to do was stop by every bed, touch a shoulder or uninjured body part, and ask their names, and they looked at her like she was some kind of [General of Mercy].
Selys smiled and took a paw. Talking about their bravery. Listening to a rasped comment about not dodging fast enough. An assurance this Rank would be back to work as soon as…
She didn’t feel a thing. They might all be dead tomorrow. The poison had drained their colors. Left them pale, dying shadows with no one to care for them. It was a foolish thing to care for…
She passed by a young man lying there, staring upwards, as bloody bandages covered his midsection. Then Selys turned.
“…Ribark? Is that you?”
The Rank lay there, a hole in his stomach—no, three. Two were shallower, but one had exited through his spine. The [Assassin], who favored a longsword, actually smiled.
“Sorry, Guildmistress. I should have stayed with the team. Just like you said. We had a combination Skill too. The Blade of Harvests stayed back from us.”
“You—you were in the patrol?”
Selys stood there. And she glanced around and didn’t see Slashface or Cirtle or—he was just one [Assassin]. Just one of the Ranks, but she’d made a team with him and the others. For that reason alone, a chance moment, him being one of the first, he stood out. The young man, denuded of his mask and armor, stared at the ceiling.
“He was too fast. Cirtle had [Dangersense], but everyone knows it goes off too slow. I should have stayed with them. Got separated fighting the other Ranks. Then he stabbed me.”
“Where’s your team?”
They weren’t among the wounded. Ribark turned his head.
“Slashface made it, I think. Not sure about anyone else. Jaahns—the Face cut his head off and reanimated him.”
“I’m…I’m sorry, Ribark. How are you feeling?”
His breath was coming slowly. His face was so pale, and Selys tried to remember if they had an antidote for this poison—
“I’ll live, Guildmistress. I’ll live and—if I don’t, I wanted to see you. Glad I made it back here.”
“Of course. I’m sorry I sent you out there. We didn’t know he—”
Ribark was smiling upwards. Smiling like a man seeing something Selys could not. A light shining down on him. But for some reason, his eyes were locked on her face. His teeth were gritted together in pain, sweat creasing his sun-darkened skin, and there was dirt on his forehead.
Didn’t anyone even clean him off? But he whispered at her.
“The Wishing Well is dark, Guildmistress. So dark, and we don’t even come from far down. Deeper and you forget there was ever a sky. We were really lucky, us Ranks. Not beautiful enough. Not useful enough to be anything else. It still…wasn’t fun.”
“I—I imagine.”
He nodded once.
“But you made it better. I had a drink three days ago, Guildmistress. A drink and the food that [Cook] sent. That round thing with layers.”
“A—a hamburger?”
“Yes. It was the best thing I ever ate. I was worried it was filled with herbs. So I didn’t eat it. I should’ve eaten one every day until today. I’m—it was—it was free, right?”
He stared up at her, and Selys sat down by his bed. The other Ranks lay there, listening.
“Of course it was. It’s just food.”
“Just food.”
He licked his lips, repeating her words as if they were silly for how novel they were. Selys murmured.
“Hey, listen. We’re, um, getting a hot springs. By the time you’re better, you can use it. It’s probably good for poisons and such.”
“Hot springs.”
Ribark was murmuring dreamily. He gazed up at her face, and Selys grasped his hand.
“You’re not that badly hurt. It’s just a hole in your stomach. I’ve seen Silver-rankers walk that off.”
“I can’t feel my legs, Guildmistress.”
“Well then, forget about your damn legs. I’ll give you a job at the desk! You heard me! I don’t waste talent, and you’re all talented.”
“We’re all flies sent at the rotting meat of our foes. That’s what they say in the Pits.”
Ribark’s voice was dreamy now. And Selys hissed.
“No, you’re not. You’re mine, now, and I don’t waste people. Ribark—”
“It was really fun, Guildmistress. You made it all better. We’ll die for you.”
Selys was blinking too rapidly as Ribark grinned upwards.
“I don’t need dead people. I’m just some Guildmistress, Ribark. I—I’m only throwing Calidus’ gold around. I didn’t do much. I sent you to your death. Don’t thank me for that.”
“Who am I supposed to thank, then? I don’t know who else. It felt better. Lord Calidus is funny. It’s better than the pit. It was all better. Guildmistress?”
He was breathing faster now, and she hoped it was a good thing, but Selys’ claws were gripping his hand so hard his fingers were paler still, yet his face—
“Yeah, Ribark?”
“They made me forget what my mother looked like. But I bet she looked a lot like you. Thank you.”
“Don’t you dare thank me. Don’t you dare. Ribark? Hello? Don’t close your eyes. Don’t—”
Selys saw those eyes close, peaceful, and he relaxed. He lay there until she shook him. Rattling his head around as it lolled, trying to get him to open those eyes, even in discomfort. For him to say anything—
“Guildmistress. Guildmistress—”
Lagrisse pulled her away. She didn’t know when he’d appeared. She shoved at the man, and then he spoke.
“Guildmistress, he’s dead. He needs to be processed before he turns.”
Then she couldn’t deny it any longer. Selys sat on the bed where the Rank had died. Just one of many. Just one who was special because she knew his name. She touched his face, and his skin was still warm. She tried to move those lips. His eyes were closed, but he was still smiling.
She tried to make him stop, because—it was wrong.
“Not for me. Don’t give me that look.”
The Drake staggered upright, and then she saw the other Ranks lying there, on their own deathbeds. They peered up at her, and there were tears in her eyes. Blurring her vision.
The Ranks gazed at the Drake, who wept for them. As no one else had. She turned, staggering around, then fled them.
Because their faces resembled Ribark’s. She stumbled into the Guild. As Ranks and Faces beheld her. Selys leaned on a counter and saw Tekshia Shivertail sitting there, for a second, at an empty desk in front of two solemn rats. The Drake [Heiress] inhaled, then screamed.
“I’m just a damn Guildmistress! I can’t save you. I can’t undo whatever they did to you. I’m going to send you again and again to your deaths. Why the hell are you doing it? Why am I?”
They had no answer for her. The killers of each species, gender, and age sat there, and Selys shouted more.
“I just hate it. Waste. Why do you all have to die? I’m so damn tired of sending you out to die. You go, and then you never come back. How am I—”
She clutched at her chest, as if she were having a heart attack. And she saw a young man with brown hair lifting a rapier. White robes whirling around him as he aimed his blade across a ship in a raging sea.
“How am I supposed to love someone who I know won’t come back some day? How can I love a monster when the world will erase them? Grandmother…why did you quit adventuring to watch over them when you know how much they die?”
Her tears touched the new, polished wood of the counter. Selys glanced around, but there was no one there.
Just a spear leaning against a wall. An empty seat.
A story of a Drake’s tail swishing across the frozen cobblestones.
An adventurer.
Just like the [General]. Just like the [Innkeeper], the [Necromancer], and everyone else she couldn’t follow. The [Heiress] lay there, weeping, until a tentative [Assassin] went to check on the woman.
“Guildmistress?”
Slashface had another scar across her mangled expression. She stood alone, a Rank, an [Assassin], but no longer one of the silent killers fresh-made.
She stood like a woman who had lost something that mattered. The last survivor of her team. Lost. Seeking answers in Selys’ tear-stricken face. The Drake’s head rose. And she saw it.
Just once. She inhaled, and a dreadful power filled Selys’ limbs. She spoke to Slashface.
“He killed your team. That bastard. Your brothers and sisters. You’re an adventurer.”
“No, Guildmistress. I’m—I’m just an [Assassin].”
Selys gazed into Slashface’s troubled eyes, then around at the others. Losmere, the Faces, the Ranks, watching her. She croaked.
“So what? You were part of a team. You’re part of a Guild. It has to matter. Even if you’re Ranks and Faces. Even if you’re [Assassins]. It has to matter, because you’re a Guild. Or else nothing matters and we’re all expendable.”
But we are. The young Rank was about to say it, but Selys heaved herself up, and Slashface saw in Selys’ gaze the same thing that Ribark had clung to.
Not to her. 
Not to me. Selys stumbled towards her office. She wrote, blood cold, limbs trembling, and then cast around.
“H-hammer.”
Someone gave it to her. She went over to the billboard she’d put up for assassination requests. And she began to hammer something into the board. There was no toc of great power. Just the thundering of her own hurt heart.
The [Assassins] watched, and Selys felt like she was driving a nail into Izril’s beating chest. And she screamed, just once.
For her grandmother. For her uncle. For the dead she had waved onwards and sent to their demises with a smile. So many teams. For Ribark and his friends who no one would mourn.
Only his Guild. That was the kind of place she had to lead. Or it was nothing at all. So, Selys Shivertail struck the final nail in the piece of paper, and this is what it said:
 
<Asssassination Target: The Blade of Harvests.>
Description: The Blademaster of Harvests, alias ‘Hapiie Leverleaf’, has slain our own. He has taken up his blade against the Assassin’s Guild of Izril. To all those who belong to the true Assassin’s Guild of the north—slay him. There is no quarter to give to those who kill us. No one to avenge us but our own.
Reward: One level in [Assassin] class. You shall be named a Face of the Assassin’s Guild.
 
And below that, a second quest.
 
<Rare Quest — The False Guild Dies From Within>
Description: There is only one Guild of Assassins in the north. Only one will survive. Give me the names of a base. The headquarters. Employees. Give it to me, and I will offer you a new life.
I am Guildmistress of the true Assassin’s Guild of the north. I shall grant any Rank or Face amnesty who forswears that Guild. They will throw you into a thresher without remorse. I shall never let you go.
Reward: Amnesty for traitors to the false Assassin’s Guild for information rendered. Scalable bounty on quality of information rewarded. I cannot lie in a <Quest>. I will grant absolution to all but those who have spilled our blood without end.
 
The <Quests> went out. Not around the world, and not even widespread. Just to those who could hear it. [Informants], [Secret Brokers], [Fences], who froze in their work as a voice spoke and delivered unto them the first <Quest> only they could hear.
A challenge. A mad Drake woman’s offer. A statement that echoed in the silence of Calidus Reinhart’s rooms as he read the <Quest>.
Then the [Lord] sat back and laughed. He had a splendid evil laugh because he had practiced it for fun. He giggled and howled with mirth. Because, for the first time—
He knew he’d win this stupid war.
 
——
 
There was something entirely alluring about a genuine, good woman. That might be relative to you, but Calidus certainly felt it in his loins.
Possibly his heart, if he had one in anything beyond the physical sense. Certainly, the Ranks and Faces felt something when looking upon their Guildmistress, even if they refused to admit it.
But Calidus—he was glad that the next day, Selys Shivertail didn’t appear recovered. She was red-eyed and had baggy darker rings around her eyes, much like Humans. A sign of ill sleep.
It was good. She didn’t seem well. Her hard façade had flaked away, revealing a bleeding heart, and you know what? It was damn refreshing to the [Lord] of House Reinhart and the hired killers.
Someone had to care, or what were they indeed? The [Lord] cleared his throat as he stood in front of the counter.
“I don’t suppose you’ve ever had someone suck your neck spines? I’m told by Drakes it’s a fascinating experience.”
Selys Shivertail stared at Calidus. Lagrisse seemed ready to eject the [Lord]. Calidus eyed Selys and consulted a Skill.
“No? I’m just saying in times of grief—okay, okay, don’t poke me.”
Even the Ranks were getting antsy, which told Calidus that Selys had won their trust. He held up his hands, smiling as Selys glowered at him.
“I have two announcements to make. Firstly, I am recruiting a number of candidates. This is in excess of the Ranks I have ordered from Chandrar.”
“Recruiting. What, locally? We barely have any [Trainers], let alone facilities for them.”
Selys croaked with a huge frown. Calidus smiled hugely.
“I know. This is my initiative, Guildmistress. I just require your time to vet any candidates for, ah, immediate candidacy into the Ranks. I’ll send for you. The others I’ll take care of.”
“I don’t think we should trust—”
“Ah, ah! I’m in charge. Now, the second piece of news.”
Calidus was relieved Selys didn’t have the energy to argue with him at the moment. She was gathering it, but he undercut her with the second piece of news.
“I have a location on the Blademaster of Harvests.”
Selys went still. So did the other [Assassins]. She stared at him.
“How?”
“I utilized my own connections. I do have favors among them, and some have further connections. He’s not exactly well-hidden, anyways. A half-Elf who had to be in range of Isbeut within the last few days with a showy sword? Someone bought a brothel out for one man—they do pay attention to that.”
That was Calidus. Friend of sex workers. It paid off more than you thought. He slid something over the counter.
“He won’t be alone, you know.”
“I know. Going to stop me?”
“Are you going to do something that will put my Assassin’s Guild in danger and possibly escalate this little war beyond any reasonable measures?”
He raised his brows, and Selys turned away.
“This is my Guild. Our own have been slaughtered. What do you think? If you want to stop me, remove me.”
Go ahead and try. Her eyes flashed defiance at Calidus, and she didn’t understand why the [Lord] beamed so hard. She really was a beautiful force. He swept her a bow everyone else thought was probably ironic, but the [Lord] just stepped aside.
“Milady Shivertail, it has seemed to me that the Guild of Assassins, famous and historically laden as they were, lacked for style when they were destroyed. A Guild should have style, not just history on its side. Let me see yours, I pray you.”
She gave him a blank look, then slammed a fist down on the counter.
“Lagrisse, Pilana, get me every [Assassin] in the region!”
She stormed forwards, and the [Lord] turned to watch her go. He eyed her swishing tail, then a rat bit him on the arm.
“Ow. Hey! I would never be so indecorous as to kiss or romance her without her approval. I can tell the difference, you know.”
He picked Haldagaz up and admonished the rat. The rat eyed him along with Lagrisse as the man hurried out from behind his counter. Calidus huffed.
“I told you all, it’s no fun any other way. We must have laws and decency. Or the rest is just…empty.”
He smiled like a reflection of the void itself. Until his eyes lit up and he sidled off to get to his own work. He only came back once to tell Lagrisse to take a recording.
 
——
 
The Blade of Harvests was a half-Elf who went by the name of Hapiie, and he looked like he was in his mid-fifties.
So guess how old he was. He had outlasted other Faces, other Ranks, even iterations of the Assassin’s Guild by virtue of this one fact: age.
When they burned, or when [Assassins] were in danger, he went to ground. Two decades of taking on a fake profession was nothing to him; he had endured centuries in the real world by virtue of his deadly bladesmanship.
Waiting.
Waiting for one thing. Not just survival. Not ‘retirement’; that was a joke. No [Assassin] ever left their craft behind. They were soaked in it. The Blademaster of Harvests had waited for the one thing he desired: status.
He wanted to be the greatest Face of the Assassin’s Guild. The one who stood at the top of that pecking order. But the Blade of Harvests knew how deadly and difficult it was to reach that apex.
Talent would not be enough. You had to be lucky, talented, and so many more things to stay on top for more than a second. For instance, you needed a vacuum where all the old Faces were dead or in hiding. Then, if you stood near the top of the others in levels, you’d be so vital that the Guildmaster would throw all the Guild’s resources behind you.
That was how you took the top and stayed there.
That was how you hit Level 50 without killing yourself in their job. Already he’d been furnished with over a hundred Drathian pills and armed in magical gear that was close to Relic-class. He had a hundred Ranks at his command, and because he was so vital, the Blade of Harvests reckoned it would be at least four years before anyone was even allowed to challenge his throne.
Level 50 was no dream with the new Guild’s ambitions. When he hit that…he could do whatever he wanted. The Blade of Harvests was only gratified it had taken a hundred and sixty years of waiting to get to this position. He’d been prepared to wait far longer.
In that sense, he was a true [Assassin]. One prepared to wait and let glory and immediate gain pass him by for his real objectives. This current rival Guild was not difficult.
Oh, there were a few Faces of note in the guild serving Lord Calidus, but his was more aggressive, readier to use the Ranks, and richer. His Guildmaster was a secretive man, newly elevated to nobility. A member of the Circle of Thorns in service to Regis Reinhart, no matter how much he tried to pretend he was his own man. He was even…changed.
The Blade of Harvests didn’t care if the man was part-monster and drank the blood of innocents like a Vampire. He just cared that the man was powerful. And how not? He was apparently highly-placed in this new Circle of Thorns. And not just any noble; he owned nothing less than the Unmarked Carriage.
This was an ambitious man, and one who needed a champion. Thus, the Blade of Harvests, Hapiie, had an accord.
…Though he wanted a new name. Thirty years he’d been ‘Hapiie Leverleaf’, and it annoyed him whenever someone snorted at his name. The half-Elf had even noticed the workers at the brothel seemed amused at the name.
So he’d killed three of them. He walked out of the bloodstained brothel and strode out of the town. He’d have the matter settled.
That was the power of being the first of Faces. No one would sneer at him anymore. No more worrying about being a ‘mere’ Face and suffering the challenge of an upstart. The Blade of Harvests was leaving the town, the two-sided greatsword on his shoulder.
It was slightly curved, but had two edges and a broad blade. An insane weapon for anyone without Skills to use, but he could swing it faster than belief. His name was because he could harvest lives like a [Farmer] did wheat. In fact, the half-Elf was strolling through a field outside the town, filled with Yellats instead of wheat.
Less thematic to his name, but he was about to unbutton his pants and take a piss when he realized that the escort of Ranks he was used to wasn’t present. The Blade of Harvests was mildly drunk from his libations at the brothel, but he felt that prickle down his spine and reached for a Scroll of Teleportation.
He yanked it out as he spoke; it was keyed to the Assassin’s Guild.
“Ranks, to me.”
Four squads appeared, leaping out of the brushes and his shadow. He nearly cut one down as they approached too fast. Only four?
There should have been six. The Ranks assembled around him, and the Blade of Harvests casually unfurled the scroll. It was pre-set. It’d take less than ten seconds to activate. No foolishness from him.
“Where are the others?”
“Not reporting, sir.”
A Rank whispered. The Blade of Harvests shrugged, then triggered the scroll.
“Make your way back to the Guild with utmost paranoia. If you engage the enemy, slaughter them. Do not allow yourselves to be tailed.”
He doubted any of them would make it if this was a trap. The Ranks hesitated, perhaps knowing this too, but the Blade of Harvests didn’t care. They were Ranks.
He felt the magic in the teleportation scroll activating as he waited, blade ready for the arrow or stab. For surely they were after him.
It never came. The Blade of Harvests smirked as he touched the Scroll of Teleportation. The magic flashed, and he—
Felt the teleportation magic trying to divide him in half. Rip him apart like a Giant would rip apart a little doll of cloth. The half-Elf’s eyes were growing round in the milliseconds of the magic activ—
[Anti-magic Slash]. He cut the scroll in twain and whirled away as it detonated. Three of the Ranks were too slow and vanished into the vortex it created. The Blade of Harvests leapt away, then steadied himself.
“This is the Blade of Harvests. I am under attack. Someone has compromised my teleportation spells. Send reinforcements. Now.”
He raised a speaking stone, spoke into it, and received a response.
“Zeomtoril’s little gadgets do work. I was going to kill him if it failed. Excellent.”
Instantly, the Blade of Harvests flicked the little speaking stone away and cut it in half. Just in case it was trapped. He had not recognized the female Drake’s voice on the other end.
“Form up.”
He snapped, and the Ranks shifted around him. Now, the half-Elf was unsettled. Someone had both intercepted his teleportation scroll and…?
“Show yourself. I am the Blade of Harvests, First of Faces of the Assassin’s Guild. Which Face has come to challenge me?”
He drew his sword and let it rest on his shoulder, casual, showy, but braced to swing it now, eyes sweeping across the Yellat field, the spiky green tufts of their leaves waving in the night’s breeze. Moths buzzing around, the blue moon shining…
Then a rustle. Shadows stepped forwards, emerging out of the darkness, and the Blade of Harvests saw a hundred Ranks appear in a circle around them. The itching on his back grew worse.
Trapped. Someone must have known where I was. But a hundred Ranks…he could cleave through them without trouble. Sacrifice his own Ranks and pick them off. It was the Faces—
There.
A figure stepped forwards, and the Blade of Harvests inspected them, then relaxed instantly. Almost laughed.
“Losmere. You’ve come for my head?”
Was she mad? The [Trainer] was just that—a [Trainer]. A washed-up Face who’d been decent in her prime, but was now just an instructor to new Faces. Barely Level 30+. He’d mince her in a second.
Unless she had company? But this was a duel among Faces, surely. The Blade of Harvests saw someone else standing next to Losmere.
A Drake who didn’t seem like a warrior at all. Her posture was bad. She wasn’t fit. And yet—
Selys Shivertail stared down at the Blade of Harvests. And she pointed.
“There you are, Blademaster of Harvests. I am Selys Shivertail, Guildmistress of the Assassin’s Guild of Izril’s north. I have put a <Quest> on your head.”
She—what? The half-Elf jerked slightly, and his eyes narrowed. A bounty on him?
He didn’t like that.
He didn’t like that one bit. The Ranks shifted, and he glanced around.
“What <Quest>? Show me—”
One handed him something. He snatched the paper, backhanded the Rank, and threw the paper down.
His name? She’d put his name out—!? The Guildmaster of this imposter Assassin’s Guild. They’d found out who she was, of course.
Selys Shivertail. Was she mad? The Blade of Harvests would kill her and Losmere. He began to walk forwards, lifting his sword off his shoulder.
[Clear the Field]. Then—[The Reaper’s Scythe]. If that didn’t kill Losmere and everyone present, he’d improvise. The Blade of Harvests ignored the Drake, incensed and ready to kill—until that prickling sensation down his spine grew worse. And he halted, overcome with a sudden…feeling.
Because the Drake, Selys, had raised her hand. She beckoned.
“—this is no challenge, Blade of Harvests. You’ve killed our members. Now, we’ve come for you. Everyone, show yourselves.”
Everyone? What did that m—
The Blade of Harvests felt the air rustling, and he spun. His greatsword swung around him, into a guard stance. And he felt, for the first moment, the urge to excrete. The sinking, twisting panic in his stomach.
He was not a gifted stealth master. And he hadn’t realized that Skills were keeping more hidden. Overlapping. 
A second wave of Ranks stepped out of the shadows. A hundred more, filling the gaps around the Blademaster of Harvests. His skin thrilled with horror.
I’ll have to break out and run. Run and trust that I can cut—
The third wave of Ranks emerged, and then the Blade of Harvests froze. When the fourth appeared, he thought it had to be an illusion. Because that would be—
Everyone.
He’d heard this rival Assassin’s Guild had a single shipment of [Assassins] from Chandrar. With casualties, they’d put the numbers at four hundred at max. Mostly Ranks. And they were all…
Here.
Ranks. Faces. He stopped counting at ten—they were lined up with the Ranks, silent figures surrounding the Blademaster of Harvests. Worse, he realized the ground was ever-so-slightly elevated. Just enough to create a depression. Ideal to avoid friendly fire if they attacked as one from a distance.
“What is this? An audience for a challenge?”
The half-Elf tried a laugh, eyes flicking back to Losmere. But the Guildmistress, Selys, just shook her head.
“A duel? What are you, eleven? That might be how the old Guild did it, but not ours. This is no duel. This is an assassination. An execution.”
All for him? He was the Face of Faces, but—the Blade of Harvests snarled. He pointed his blade at Losmere, who lifted her daggers warily.
“Is that it? You don’t have a Face who can stand against me, so you’re attempting to drown me in bodies? You aren’t my equals—none of you Faces are!”
None of them moved. Again, Selys spoke for them.
“Maybe not. But who cares? We’re not lone [Assassins]. This is a Guild. And a Guild fights and dies together. Teams. Assassin’s Guild—this is the Blade of Harvests, who has killed you Ranks and Faces alike. Show him how you feel about that.”
“I’ll face your b—”
The Blade of Harvests was trying to guess how many Faces he could take to buy time when he saw the Ranks shift. Then he was flatfooted, incredulous.
They weren’t going to—this was a challenge. He was a F—
The Ranks and Faces threw in a single motion. Almost all of them had a throwing weapon of some kind.
Throwing daggers, spiked stars, bolas, just the flash of a wand, or the thunk of a crossbow firing—individually, it would be silent.
Together, it was a storm breaking. The Blade of Harvests screamed. His sword came up—
 
——
 
The half-Elf stumbled, and Selys Shivertail counted.
“That looks like twelve wounds.”
Her face didn’t change. But internally, she felt almost disappointed. She had been told he was a Face of Faces. Then again, maybe he was.
But he hadn’t been good at detection, and even if he’d been, what, Redscar, could that Goblin have handled four hundred professionals striking at him at once?
He had [Whirl My Blade] or something that let him deflect weapons. But again, how many? They’d overwhelmed his Skill, and despite his attempt to dodge—
He was bleeding. The half-Elf had made it, and his Skill had, amazingly, let the Ranks around him survive. About…half. The Blade of Harvest’s deflection Skills had saved them. His voice was shaky now.
“Do you th—”
“Again.”
The Ranks and Faces threw, and there was a faint scream. The thunder became silence, the ping of blades. A soft cry—
One of the Ranks fell, beheaded. The Blade of Harvests had parried—again—and taken more wounds. In doing so, he’d killed three of his people. And the Ranks had still survived.
Nine of them.
They were gathered around the Blade of Harvests, and Selys was really impressed. How the hell had they survived—
Ah. She saw one of them shake something out and realized they had survived the most expedient way possible: they’d grabbed their comrades, living or dead, and used them as shields. The dead [Assassins] were pincushioned with metal.
Now, there was a silence as the Ranks and Faces turned to Selys. They had the same thought as she did.
This was so easy. The Blade of Harvests? No match for four hundred [Assassins], even lower-level than he was. It was just bringing them all to bear that was so hard. But together, who could stand against them?
Only Saliss of Lights. And funnily enough, the Blade of Harvests invoked the same name as he sank to one knee.
“Only Saliss of Lights. Only that. Level 50 is so…hard. We never had many of that caliber, even before the waste of the Antinium Wars. Hitting it—too hard for us, Guildmistress. Or we can die by the biting of gnats. Like this.”
He put his blade down. He was bleeding badly, Selys saw. A throwing dagger buried up to its hilt in his shoulder, but the old half-Elf barely flinched.
“I swear myself to the true Assassin’s Guild of Izril. I will sign in blood, if you have a contract.”
Oh, so that’s what he was doing. Selys had been confused and worried he was up to some kind of super-Skill. She tilted her head.
“Ah. You think my offer to turn sides applied to you. Funny. I worded it specifically.”
The Blade of Harvests hesitated, and she sighed. No one read carefully.
“I only offered amnesty to those who hadn’t spilled our blood like you. You’re a dead man.”
“—I’m the Blade of Harvests. A [Blademaster]. You need me.”
The half-Elf was staring at her. Selys’ blood was cold. She thought of Ribark.
“Maybe we do. Another Assassin’s Guild could have taken you. Not mine. You killed my Ranks. Ready—”
The Ranks and Faces around her drew blades. The Blademaster of Harvests’ hand grabbed his blade tightly.
“You can’t slaughter me so easily. I will cut your lines in twain. My deathblows will not leave enough of you to stand against the other Guild, and they outnumber and outmatch you! Be sensible—”
He wanted to live.
He was just a man.
Selys Shivertail gazed down at the Blademaster of Harvests and whispered.
“No wonder you never made Level 50. True myths die defying impossible odds. My grandmother would spit on your tail, idiot. Ag—”
The Blademaster of Harvests leapt up with a howl, and she jerked back, stepping behind Losmere as he began to charge. A high-level warrior died hard.
The Blade of Harvests aimed his greatsword like a rapier, targeting the Guildmistress to end her, if no one else. He raced forwards in all of a tenth of a second, then stumbled and twisted around.
“You—”
He slashed and cut the Rank behind him in half, from top to toe. But the figure had already buried their blade in his back. Another hamstrung the Blade of Harvests. His sword took another head off on the backstroke. But they were on top of—
Selys held a claw up as she poked her head out of cover.
“Huh. Hold—”
The Ranks. His ranks were swarming the Blade of Harvests. He lashed around, swinging his blade, but he had already been hurt, and they had covered him in stab-wounds.
Eleven—nineteen—twenty-seven? Several had gone straight into his brain. Sharp, poisoned blades piercing his body until he just…collapsed. But his arm had kept swinging even after he himself was dead.
Selys Shivertail walked forwards when the Blade of Harvests finally stopped moving. She was greeted by a trio of Ranks, one of them holding their arm.
None were unbloodied; they’d been nearly shredded by the storm of attacks, then they’d killed the Face in that desperate melee.
Why? Well, it was obvious.
They knelt. Selys eyed the blood spurting from one of the arm sockets of the wounded Ranks.
“I take it you lot want amnesty?”
The three wounded Ranks regarded each other. One of them spoke as he—she?—wobbled and placed their arm before her like an offering.
“And the position of Face, Guildmistress.”
Oh, wow. They had read the <Quest> despite it being posted earlier today. Selys’ lips quirked despite herself. She watched the Rank bleeding out, then reached out and tugged down their mask.
“Huh.”
A Drake stared up at her, his eyes narrowed, face pale with bloodloss. Selys patted the kid on the head.
“Someone tourniquet that arm before he dies, and keep the arm. We might be able to re-attach it. Welcome to the real Assassin’s Guild, kid. Well, the three of you are Faces. I didn’t think about multiple…bah, we’ll figure that part out later. Okay, pack it up!”
She strode out of the field as the [Assassins] approached the dead Blade of Harvests. Selys Shivertail breathed in, out, and spoke half to herself as much as the others.
“We’re a Guild now. Do or die—we’re a damn Guild, and this is what it means. When this is all over, I’m throwing us a party in a hot springs. Drinks and baths. That’s how you do it in Liscor.”
She looked around and saw Slashface and Losmere watching her. Selys reached out, and they supported her on the walk back to the carriage.
“That’s how you do it. Right, Grandmother?”
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was told that the Blade of Harvests had been killed with zero casualties on their side and three new recruits. He promptly found a bottle of champagne, popped it, and began bathing in the stuff.
Some of the Faces watched him as he danced around, clothing and carpet getting sodden in the downpour.
“You seem to think this has won the war, Lord Calidus. We just executed their best Face. The other Assassin’s Guild will come at us with everything, now.”
Losmere remarked sourly. She was polishing a dagger, having just completed a training session with the Ranks. It sounded…painful, but Calidus noted she seemed a bit more lively and talkative. He stopped dancing in champagne and offered it to her.
“I rather thought you’d all join me. Or wasn’t that half-Elf threatening to cut all of you Faces up, Losmere, Qissax?”
The two Faces he knew hesitated and joined Calidus, trying to appear cool and collected, which was their mask for all their real emotions, he was sure. It had half-fooled him at first. Now, he just understood they had all been born with Ressa’s poker face. They were just people. Sad, really.
“The Blade of Harvests being dispatched so easily is…commendable, Lord Calidus. It just does not seem time to celebrate.”
“Bah, Qissax, you simply don’t see it. I never was worried about the war itself. Oh, sure, we might win or lose, but I needed a Guildmistress once I realized I wasn’t doing it. And Selys is a talented individual—she is worth more than any six Faces! Before you get offended, it is because she is the Guild.”
Calidus was beaming, relieved. He’d seen it in her tears and how she’d taken the fight to the other Guild for the dead Ranks. He drank the champagne, then spat it out.
“Eugh, this is all bubbles. Anyways, the point is—she cares about you all. Ranks and Faces. More than I could. She can cry for you killers and, I think, won your respect. You might be too impassive to admit it, but who here wouldn’t leap into bed with her if she so much as wagged her tail?”
He peered around, and no one contradicted him. Which was probably just [Assassin] stoicism, but Calidus decided to believe it proved his point.
“They will come for us, Lord Calidus. If we bring four hundred Ranks to a single engagement, they will do likewise. Do you want to see [Assassins] in mass-combat?”
“Yes, actually.”
Calidus took pity on Losmere. He patted her on the shoulder.
“—But I don’t intend on wasting you all just for the fun of it. I will win this war, Losmere, Qissax. A Reinhart’s word on it. I’m not sure it’ll work, but I’m estimating it will—and the uncertainty is lovely.”
He beamed at them, delighted by the fact that he might not survive his plans if they failed. So he had to do his best. He had to run an experiment, do some prep work—oh, and figure out a routine.
But before all that, he threw out his arms.
“We have a new Guildmistress! Celebrate that if anything, you all! Or tell me—did you see a future for the Assassin’s Guild before this? Or just desperate flailing to ‘be’ the Assassin’s Guild? I think she has a future, and that is something to trust.”
They regarded him, and then Losmere took the bottle from Lord Calidus and drank a sip. She made a face, and Calidus laughed. He thought—
Dead gods, but this was sort of fun. It was one thing to set up a project or organization, another to make something that he actually thought might matter or last.
They had a 50% chance of making it. All down to a coin-flip on one thing working, really. Everyone’s efforts came down to that. But Calidus didn’t tell them that. Then he went to make Selys’ life more difficult.
 
——
 
Selys didn’t feel better after executing the Blade of Harvests. A bit calmer, maybe, but never better.
You didn’t, according to her Grandmother. So she just continued on. She assigned the Blade of Harvest’s weapon to a Face, elevated the turncoat Ranks to Faces—and two were promptly unseated by challenges she allowed.
Not killed. There was no one really of Face quality among the Ranks yet, but they were levelling fast. If they survived a year, they’d have Faces and the foundation of a true Assassin’s Guild.
If they lived.
She felt shaky, now that the white-hot rage had left her. Empty. She had just organized a murder, a real assassination, and taken part in it herself. She was truly part of the Assassin’s Guild now.
She’d lost herself. Ribark dying like that had…not broken her. But pierced the gates she’d put around her heart. Let the floodwaters pour into her city. It was bitter, painful. But necessary.
Ancestors, but she couldn’t care about them. She knew what she’d been pressganged into, and she couldn’t care.
But they were just kids. Selys sat in her Guild, afterwards, and saw the Ranks talking. Many of them were actually very cheerful. Why not? They’d just eliminated a huge opponent, gotten vengeance, and two new Faces were elevated from their number.
We get to live for another day. Hooray.
“My version of the Antinium. Just like that bitch. No. That…Human? Egh. That sounds racist. That woman.”
“Guildmistress?”
Slashface limped over. She was still healing, but she’d lived. Ribark was dead. Selys turned to her. There was another mercy for her conscience: Cirtle was alive too. The Drowned Girl had been sent to House Walchaís for healing. Now, she walked over, and she and Slashface presented themselves to Selys.
“Your team’s dead. How’re you two feeling?”
“Relieved, Guildmistress. You took vengeance for us. Thank you.”
Cirtle answered, running her Human hand over her side. Apparently, she’d been gouged down to the bones—but since it hadn’t been the Blade of Harvest’s poisoned blades, she’d been mended with phantom flesh or something. Slashface had more scars, and her answer was revealing.
“I’m disappointed our squad was wiped out. We synergized well, Guildmistress. Will we be assigned new squadmates?”
Cirtle shifted subtly, and Slashface glanced sideways, then added with a twist of the lips.
“I’m sorry Ribark died. He was a good—friend.”
She said the word so uncomprehendingly that Selys’ smile was bitter.
“You don’t have to pretend you liked him. I know you’re Ranks.”
“Oh. Okay.”
Slashface straightened and, after a moment, added awkwardly.
“He did fight to protect the squad. They don’t teach us that in the Wishing Well.”
Selys put her head back in her hands.
“Ancestors, stop. The Wishing Well, where you’re trained, right? Where they take kids and make killing weapons out of them? I don’t want to know. I’m tired of caring. I was doing so well.”
What a strange [Guildmistress] they’d found. The two Ranks glanced at each other as the [Assassins] watched her. Selys wiped her eyes once.
“Emotions make you weak. Especially in this line of business, I’ll wager. Even in my old job, you had to be a bastard. My grandmother was never good at it. She always cared, but a good [Guildmistress] can send the right team at the job. Even if they don’t come back. To win this war, I have to do that. To not be killed for being weak, I have to do that!”
She spoke to the pure logic they understood. The [Assassins] nodded. And yet…what captivated them was the fact that she was so flawed, this Drake.
A pair of rats squeaked at Selys. One raced up a chair and leapt onto the table. Rhata curled a tail around Selys’ claw, and the Drake held her in her claws. Haldagaz was shyer. He sat there, and she gazed at him. Then saw a handkerchief tied around his neck like a little cape. She took it and laughed. Then she peered around.
“The thing about that theory is that it only works if everyone else is a heartless, thoughtless monster. And no one is. You know what? My grandmother was far from perfect. She was petty, made mistakes. And her Guild was never important until the end. But people respected her. Guildmasters all the way to First Landing knew her name. Maybe, in another world you can be a heartless monster and win. Not this one.”
She stood up on the table, Rhata and Haldagaz on her shoulders like little angels. Selys looked around the guild of bemused shadows. And her voice quivered, but she called out to them.
“Golems don’t earn levels. You level because you care. So—damnit. I care a bit. You two had better not die, Slashface, Cirtle! If you do, I’ll cry for you. Then I’ll wipe my cheeks and move on. A level higher. Or has a Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild ever really levelled? You just choose the best killer, don’t you? You idiots. You need an administrator, not another blade! Kill me if you think I’m useless. But if you can’t see my strength, then this Guild will die twice!”
She was unknowingly echoing Calidus’s threat. Unlike him…she saw Slashface and Cirtle glance at each other. New and old. One could remember the old Assassin’s Guild. The other had come from the origin of Assassin’s Guild, the pure hell of Chandrar’s sands and fount of shadowed blades.
Both bowed to Selys.
“As you will it, Guildmistress.”
Selys smiled waterily and wiped at her eyes. She turned.
“Good. I’m going to make this place the best damn Guild in the world. My ambition has no limits. That’s the difference between me and her. Less than I thought. But we’ll settle our debts someday.”
For now, she sat back, and then scowled as she had a stupid, inane thought.
“I’m really copying some of the things the Antinium did—but don’t tell me you’d want pets too.”
She returned, and Cirtle blinked at her. Slashface tilted her head, and it was Losmere who appeared, sitting on top of a table. She sat and casually glanced at Selys.
“We don’t have pets.”
“Phew.”
“…But we had a trained warbear. Animal tools to kill with. [Beast Tamer Assassins]. Dropbats. The evil cat species. I wouldn’t oppose a few.”
Selys just sighed. Then she got up and got back to work.
 
——
 
A Guildmistress with a heart. Calidus was still chuckling about it. He’d even had Selys’ speech written down, and he was having it framed.
Because it was correct. That was the thing he liked about challenging hidebound tradition. Sometimes you found it mattered. And sometimes you found a path forwards that no one had considered, that made everything better.
Things should be better. Calidus didn’t really care about the past unless it was lootable. That was why this Assassin’s Guild was so ironic to him. He wasn’t sure he would have revitalized it if he’d had all the power and choice.
“But it is needed.”
He was so inspired by Selys that he was actually doing work. Well, he’d been doing work and making plans, but that was all high-level, win-this-war-and-survive stuff. Since he had a plan…he did other kinds of work he hoped to soon push onto Selys’ plate.
One piece of work was reviewing assassination requests. Regis had sent the first ones over, but he was as adverse to work as Calidus, so he’d given Calidus the tools to receive the Guild’s clients and jobs.
Most of it was silly, gauche stuff. Leave a note in a tree stump after performing a stupid ritual every full moon. Or hand the right person a note and it’d go through channels to get to him. Calidus wasn’t in the mood to take many killing jobs on right now. The other Guild was probably monopolizing and monitoring such channels and trying to make themselves the de facto Guild in that way.
More fools, they. But he still read the requests and, more importantly, marked who they were from. Because the Guild should exist.
It was a counterbalance to the south’s power. It was a check on foreign powers, all that claptrap. It was also a counterbalance on the people who wanted it back.
The nobility. Even the Five Families had to watch their backs with the Assassin’s Guild around. Obviously, killing a member of the Five Families could lead to the kind of backlash that had broken the Guild.
“Who thought this was ever easy? The Guild has always had to walk a tightrope between powers. If they thought they could get away with not doing that, then they were complacent and failing.”
Calidus muttered. Here was the final way in which the Guild mattered that Regis didn’t think about, or the Five Families. Calidus put a request from one of the Wellfars away—already, they were coming to him, wanting what they’d destroyed. Then he picked up a note that was badly damaged. Re-scribed. It had come through far less well-established channels. But it made him stop and think.
It was a kill-request for…two [Knights] of the Clairei Fields. And two other ‘Vampire Hunters’. Calidus checked his notes.
“Hm. They’re still on about that? Getting worse, rather. How many can there be? And do I take it?”
The pay was good. Surprisingly good given what had been put down. He drummed his fingers on the desk, then placed it and two other notes in the ‘approved’ pile. Burned the rest.
The point of the Assassin’s Guild was to oblige all parties. Low and high. Because the low could rise, and you wanted them to remember you favorably. And because…this was bloody, messy work, and he imagined hauling a few bodies to be strung up and a sign posted on their corpse wouldn’t be fun for the Ranks. Especially in the rain.
—But if the Guild didn’t exist, then people took it into their own hands. Nothing scared the nobility more than commoners learning how to do things themselves. Calidus rubbed at his face as he rang a bell for Dorim.
“But Vampires? Really? The most alluring thing about Gnolls aside from the ears, fur, their lovely growling voices, and—you know what, one of the alluring things about Gnolls and Drakes is those canines. You look at that and you want to murder them? I get the whole parasitism or whatever the other bit is.”
He stood up, shaking his head, and made a note for Dorim to find him some reading material so he could be up-to-date. Calidus finished his thought.
“But trying to wipe out a species? Sure, it works sometimes. It goes so well, wiping out a bloodline to the last child or driving a people to desperation.”
He poured himself a drink. Was he the only sane man around here?
Did no one read stories? Ah, well. He had a thought.
“Now that we’ve killed the Blade of Harvests, we’re definitely winning. Can’t lose now.”
He was laughing to himself when Dorim came in.
 
——
 
The worrying thing was that after killing the Blademaster of Harvests, the best Face in the rival Guild, there was no response.
Not one.
Ominous. Selys really didn’t like that. She had Lagrisse searching for the enemy, and she did have the location of several bases the other Guild used from the turncoats.
But since they were almost definitely trapped as the enemy would know that she knew that they were there…Selys did nothing. She told everyone to train, tripled the patrols, and took in more turncoats.
They came, by the ones and twos, mostly, Ranks and even a Face. Coming for her <Quest>.
She didn’t trust them of course, but the Assassin’s Guild had blood contracts and ways of ensuring loyalty. And it seemed like the Ranks had come for a simple, even silly, reason.
“We heard your Ranks survive. Get…equipment. We want to live.”
The Drake [Assassin] with one arm was eying a prosthetic limb being attached to his shoulder as Selys sat with him. He was a Rank, who had no name, so she’d given him one.
“That’s it, Libak?”
He shrugged blankly.
“We were told it. So when we saw an opportunity…”
Selys eyed him. She’d given him a name sort of like Ribark. It didn’t mean he was her kid or anything. She just—well, she was here, now. Rhata and Haldagaz had stopped trying to bite her and begun scurrying around being helpful. As if they’d realized she actually meant it, a bit.
Doing this job. Selys leaned over and wiped at his face with a handkerchief; he had soot all over from killing and burning a Garbichug. While wounded, no less. If they ever managed to win this war, there would be a lot of very useful adventurers in the north. They’d be a net good.
If they lived.
“How’s that, Libak? Someone tells me that in your place and I’d assume it was propaganda, a lie meant to make me switch sides. What had you convinced?”
He nodded to her.
“We would have thought that, Guildmistress. Except that it didn’t come from another Rank. The Djinni told us that. The Unmarked Coach’s driver.”
“Oh? Why’s that matter?”
He shifted, as if surprised she didn’t know.
“Djinni lie to their masters. They tell the truth to other [Slaves], sometimes. She might have been telling the truth. Fifty-fifty chance.”
And a 50% chance of being told the truth and managing to turncoat successfully was better than the Guild he’d come from. It was pure logic, as the Ranks saw it. Selys patted Libak on the head.
“Well, stay loyal and I’ll give you that chance, Libak.”
“Yes, Guildmistress. Got any work for me?”
“No. Heal up. If you want to be useful, check on our hot springs guys, but don’t intimidate, just…I’ve got work to do.”
She hopped up as the [Limb Doctor] finished sewing the arm onto Libak and had him test it out. Waiting for the counterattack. Bed made. No matter what Calidus said, Selys thought she’d earned a death-sentence from posting that <Quest>.
Well, she’d taken the bet. This was her Erin-moment, then, only without a stupid speech or miracles. Selys just had to count on her wits, the [Assassins]. And Lord Calidus.
She wished she didn’t have to count on him. He did not inspire confidence.
 
——
 
He was no idiot. She had to assume Calidus was actually as smart as Zeomtoril and others claimed. Selys got a sort of Olesm vibe from Calidus, but without the lack of confidence and way more raunchiness. His ability to project weird chaos-energy was sort of Erin.
And he’d beaten Erin in a chess game.
Remember that. So he had to know this was where the other Guild came in for blood. What did Calidus do in the week they had before it got bad?
He recruited new [Assassins], which sounded great.
It was a bad idea. Here was why it was a bad idea: Selys Shivertail stood in a room with a [Rapist].
She had never met one before. Not one with the class. Oh, she’d heard about people being exiled from Liscor for bad crimes. Tekshia had once taken a Silver-ranker out back and broken his bones so badly he’d never been able to fight again.
But the class?
He was a Human man with a shadow of a beard on his face and somewhat unpatched clothes, but he covered the holes well, and he had on some kind of cologne, actually. He smiled, and he actually had a charming expression—for a Human.
But her files on him said what he was, and even if Selys hadn’t had the class written in red by Lagrisse’s hand, she would have known something was off from the way he regarded her.
Everyone stared at everyone. Selys was used to adventurers who’d eye you up, check out your chest and tail. But this man’s eyes would flick to her chest, groin, tail, or face, then away.
Like someone assessing. He’d smile when she noticed and pretend to be casual. He…made her scales itch. If she were alone in this room, she’d have armed her wand and been ready to draw it and put a bolt through his head, because he would not give her a second chance and be innocent as a Sariant Lamb until he showed her what he really was.
That was what her instincts told her. But Lord Calidus was beaming, and one of the Ranks stood in the corner of the room, still as a shadow.
So the [Rapist], Jourteben Rabeis, just licked his lips and smiled, even as his eyes flicked towards her. And Selys thought—
Him? She’d rather the Ranks. The Ranks were a kind of innocent for all they murdered. This man didn’t deserve to be an [Assassin].
So why was Calidus recruiting him?
“Level 22. Good prospects, I think, Guildmistress. Very good at, uh, sneaking around and such. You understand that revealing the Guild’s nature means death?”
“Oh, yessir, Guildmaster. I swear.”
Jourteben started as Calidus broke the silence and bowed his head. He looked nervous as he glanced at the male [Assassin]—he had no idea the Rank was lower-level than he was. Calidus beamed and clapped him on the back.
“Well, excellent! We’ll have you sign a contract in blood. Just a standard boil-your-ichor-in-your-veins-if-you-betray-us contract. Then we’ll have a lengthy training period, but as I said, you have potential, my friend.”
Yes, but for what? Selys’ lips were compressed as the [Rapist] glanced at her, then forced a smile.
“This contract, Lord Calidus. Do I need to sign exactly that or can I negotiate—?”
Calidus was all smiles. But there was an edge to his tone that Selys had never heard before as he leaned over, a bit too close.
“We are not some Guild, Master Rabeis. We are the Assassin’s Guild, and you came to us because you were desperate for a new life, a second chance. If you would like to refuse…”
“No, no, sir. Absolutely not.”
Calidus beamed and leaned back.
“Excellent! Then you’ll go through that door to sign—and do mind our Guildmistress. She’ll have you drawn and quartered if she doesn’t like your attitude once you’re a full member of the Guild.”
The man stood up and shuffled towards the door. He glanced at Selys once, smiled, and bowed.
“I’m very respectful to proper authority, Guildmistress, no matter what my record says. I’ll be on my best behavior.”
Selys was searching for something to say back that wasn’t true—because the true statement she wanted to say to the Rank was ‘kill him’. But Lord Calidus was there, and the [Lord] tapped the side of his nose.
“Ah, my friend, don’t be so coy. The perks of the job do accrue with status. Become a Face and you can do what you want. Within reason. Let that be motivation for you passing the training.”
For a second, Jourteben’s face went blank. Then he smiled. The door closed behind him, and only when it clicked did Selys lean over.
“That man is the third most disgusting Human I have met today, Lord Calidus. And because that’s saying something, you’ll explain what you’re doing or I’ll shove this entire clipboard somewhere you won’t find titillating.”
She was beyond upset. Lord Calidus stroked his chin.
“I quite understand, Guildmistress. But rest assured, I intend to use them as, well, pure fodder. Below Ranks. You are simply here, as I said, to pick someone out of the trash.”
“I’ve found no one.”
“Then that’s fine. Just allow me my insanity. They won’t be under your control.”
“You’d better have them watched.”
Selys hissed at him. He’d been interviewing and recruiting the kind of filth she had a hard time believing existed.
[Murderer]. [Rapist]. [Kidnapper]. Not just bad classes.
Crimson classes. Blood classes. The worst of the worst. The kind of people that an underworld gang would take one look at and say ‘hey, we have standards’.
She didn’t know how Lord Calidus had even found them! But the underworld networks could provide you with such people, from literal jails, if necessary. If you paid for them.
“Why is this worth our time? The other Guild—”
“My plan, Selys.”
“And if I tell you they will not be part of my Guild? That the Ranks are upstanding people compared to this scum and I will be dead before I treat any one of them with respect?”
Her tail thrashed the ground, and Lord Calidus smiled politely.
“That’s fine. I have a plan. Next!”
Selys ran through more candidates. It was thoroughly unpleasant. Neither she nor Calidus wanted to hear excuses; the man actually just wanted to know if they’d agree or not. Almost all did. The others were escorted through a second door—into what Selys strongly suspected was a shallow grave.
That was the door she’d prefer they all went through. She was almost about to tell Calidus to do whatever he was up to for the lot when the first candidate appeared who she decided to give a second chance.
“Name?”
“E-Estia Hepleaf.”
“Class?”
Selys was checking it off against her clipboard.
“[M-Murderer].”
“And how did you achieve your class, Miss Hepleaf? From—oh. Celum.”
Then Selys looked up and saw a different candidate than she was used to. She locked eyes with, well, a woman. A Human woman, barely more than nineteen, with faded scratch-marks on her cheeks, a rather unkempt look, bad clothing…
A [Murderer]. But not one that looked at Selys as if she were next. The woman shuddered, then spoke almost dreamily.
“I killed my husband. Th-they told me I tried to kill the Watch, but I don’t remember. I woke up in jail, and there were—I was in jail, and I met the Horns of Hammerad. Me! No one believes me. I swear I met them, though. Before they became famous.”
“I…see.”
Selys and Calidus exchanged a glance. He was eating popcorn and spoke.
“Miss Estia, we have a lot of applicants to get through. We’re not here to pass judgement on, uh, your class. Why did you decide to take our offer and join the Assassin’s Guild?”
The woman jumped and seemed to focus.
“I—no one wanted to hire me afterwards. Because they knew. They knew I had the class. It’s in my head. Red. I’m good at killing, now. B-better. But I don’t! I’m good and honest, only no one wants me. Not my family. My husband’s—they tried to kill me. In revenge. I had to kill them. The Watch knew it was self-defense! But they locked me up again. And then I couldn’t find work.”
“You didn’t want to become an adventurer?”
That was one of the few options Selys could see for the woman. Estia gave her a blank look.
“Me? Kill monsters? I’m not brave. I just killed my husband. I just—decided to kill him when I’d had enough. It was hard. He kept fighting back even when I beat him to death. Then everyone judged me, even though he broke every vow towards me. Ruined our marriage, ruined my life. There’s no work for me. Lord Xitegen gives food to anyone who’ll clean a Golem. But I’m tired of that. I was going to join a gang, but they didn’t want me. Thought I was soft.”
Her voice changed, and Selys’ scales itched. Whomever had thought Estia wasn’t worth recruiting…well, she didn’t seem like stable material anyways. However—
“You killed your husband because he beat you?”
Estia calmed herself, then smiled sweetly.
“Yes! And I helped the Horns of Hammerad. No one believes me. I did! I…I think I’d be good at the job, Lord Calidus.”
The [Lord] stopped shovelling down popcorn and eyed Selys. She hesitated.
“I…might have room for you in my Guild, Miss Estia. No one kills except when I say so, understand.”
“Of course, um, Guildmistress—”
“You’re a damned woman, Estia. [Assassins] don’t have long futures. If someone finds out who you are, you’re dead. You understand that, right?”
Selys asked, and she saw Estia’s innocent smile blank out again. And then she whispered.
“I know. It’s not the life I would have chosen, but the class is red. It drips in my head. What else am I supposed to be? Use me. I’m good at this, apparently. Show me what I am.”
Madness oozing from her desperate tone. She appeared malnourished. The Rank was eying her with more attentiveness than most of the others, even the [Rapist], but Selys Shivertail just locked eyes with Estia.
“Control yourself, Rank Estia. I’m going to mark you down for training. If you pass, you’ll be one of my [Assassins]. Then you’ll get a chance to start over. And if you survive, I’ll make sure you have a life you deserve. But you win it by surviving and being useful, got it?”
The [Murderer] hesitated, then calmed down. She smiled, trying to look sweet and innocent despite her trembling.
“Y-yes, Guildmistress! Where do I—?”
“Through the door on the left. Sign there, and then we’ll take you to Selys’ Guild.”
Calidus jerked his head. They watched as Estia left, and then he leaned over to Selys.
“You thought she was highly attractive too, right?”
She stared at him.
“She’s the only person I’ve even thought could make the Ranks, and she’s still weaker than they are, even if she has [Murderer] Skills.”
He shrugged.
“One Rank is still worth a few hours’ effort, Miss Selys. But I agree, one among fifty-five so far. Besides, I’ve always been fascinated by ‘red’ classes and what they do. Having her in our Guild will assuage that curiosity. Next!”
Selys growled at him as the door opened. In the end, she took two applicants.
Out of over four hundred. The rest she’d not trust with a sponge, let alone a knife at her back. Calidus wanted to double their numbers with high-level redline classes?
Insanity. She needed to get the Guild in order well before that if that was his plan. The Ranks could…deal with any new members he decided were finished training. And they’d be loyal to her, Selys decided.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart finished his recruiting drive and had the new red [Assassins] in training in a separate location he personally assigned Losmere and some Faces to. They were not happy, but Calidus did it without Selys’ help since she was highly resistant.
It took time and effort, and that allowed him to finish his tests. He reviewed the information the turncoats were delivering to Selys.
The other Guild was sprawling, and most importantly, Calidus now knew his rival Guildmaster was a problem.
“The owner of the Unmarked Coach himself? Damn, Grandfather clearly placed his trust in his most capable flunkie.”
Calidus didn’t like this other fellow, whose name he didn’t even know. It spoke to someone well placed in the old Circle of Thorns and the underworld. A powerful, experienced man versus Calidus.
He was probably outlevelled. Possibly at a 2:1 ratio. Selys was doing her best, but Calidus sat in his office. He played with something on his desk.
A black jar he had bought at great expense from Liscor. He was still more fascinated by The Wandering Inn and all that business than his Guild, to be honest. Selys was doing good work, but the rival Guild…
…They’d come soon enough. Lord Calidus Reinhart toyed with the jar, then opened it. Sniffed, once and wrinkled his nose at the odd smell and texture assaulting his senses. He poured it into a cup and oohed.
“So ominous. So…where have you been all my life, you darling woman?”
He decided to anthropomorphize the drink instantly. As if she were some sultry Antinium woman oozing out of the jar. Which didn’t sound appealing but he’d just gotten a sketch of this Bird the Huntress, and dead gods, it worked for him.
Calidus Reinhart admired the Rxlvn and re-read the warnings from the seller who had told him how dead he could kill himself if he took too much of it. He kissed the liquid.
“Who said the Black Tide gave Izril nothing? Zeomtoril? Zeomtoril, my friend. I have a drink to make our acquaintance!”
Calidus swept up a speaking stone and called his best friend to his office, where they cooed over the drink, admired her lines, poured each other sample cups, and tried to cut it with lesser alcohols because she was about to drown them in oblivion.
And he loved it. He, the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild, sat there with the ultimate distraction at the worst moment, and his intelligent brain knew that perhaps this was a terrible mistake. Perhaps someone had even known he’d hired a Courier to send the drink to him and might wait for his inattentiveness if he took this stuff, which would send even his mind into another dimension.
He wavered, just once, as Zeomtoril tossed back the first cup. But Calidus Reinhart? He looked around.
“I hate it here.”
He knocked back the Rxlvn, and the world—
—went—
—out.
 
——
 
In the way of things, Calidus’ mind pieced together events after they had happened. Fragments of memory recovered from an alcoholic soup of consciousness.
 
Dancing on top of Selys’ counters naked. Trying to windmill his genitals and impress some of the Ranks, who gave him the flattest looks possible.
 
Backstroking across the hot springs as the workers were trying to fill it up. Somehow, incredibly, charming the Drake [Forewoman] into bed until she leapt out since he was so inebriated nothing functioned.
 
Running around in a circle with Zeomtoril, singing, because the [Polymath] fancied the world was an illusion and if they managed to do all that, they’d pierce the veil.
 
Trying to cast magic with Haldagaz while lying on the floor.
 
Twirling in place as Qissax burst into his rooms and snarled. 
“The Assassin’s Guild is under attack, Lord Calidus! They’ve come for—”
 
Oh wait. That last part was what he’d been waiting for, right? Calidus’ mind saw his memory of himself stop twirling and raise a drunk hand.
“Arm holster. You know, this was great. Having the most fun, Qissax.”
“Sober up and prepare to flee! They’re attacking the Guild, but they’ll hit the mansion n—what?”
The Naga was snarling, searching for de-toxins to use on the drunk [Lord]. Until he saw something strapped to the inside of Calidus’ left hand. He stared, tore the Potion of Sobriety free, and—
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart coughed, then spewed. He threw up for half a minute in a nonstop stream, gagged, then held up a finger.
Dead gods, that was unpleasant. The Rxlvn had such a nasty effect he took a second hit of the potion. Wonderful, though.
“Phew. Are they here at last? I was having such fun.”
“The Assassin’s Guild has come. There are hundreds of Ranks and Faces assaulting—”
Qissax was wounded. His scales were burnt, and Calidus heard screams and explosions from outside. He walked to a window—he was in his office—and stared outside.
Fire in his town. The Assassin’s Guild was under siege. He saw something explode on the roof of the Guild, sending shingles flying, but the enchanted wood underneath…Calidus turned.
“Is Selys Shivertail alive?”
“She’s retreated inside and is holding the Guild with the Ranks. But we are outnumbered—”
“Yes, yes. Shut up, Qissax. Guard my office. I’m supposed to be off-limits, but my rival probably wants me dead. I would. If Zeomtoril’s still drunk, drag him in here. I need fifteen minutes. Then we can all die.”
Lord Calidus Reinhart walked over to his desk and sat down. He checked his clothing, then shrugged. He pulled open a drawer and put the contents on his desk. Qissax was ready to shout, but the Face saw Lord Calidus place the oddest assortment on the desk.
He had:
 
-A button-up white shirt with House Reinhart’s sigil in green on the silk breast.
-A new pair of pants.
-Underwear, briefs.
-A piece of paper with several lines underlined, written large.
-A scrying orb.
 
Last of all, a high-grade [Message] scroll of some kind. Calidus began writing in it as he ripped his shirt off and started unbuckling his belt.
“Go on, Qissax.”
“What are you—”
“Busy. That’s what.”
Busy? He’d been drunk an entire week, making a nuisance of himself, completely out-of-his-mind as Selys had been bracing for the counterattack and fighting off the first incursions! But now the [Lord] was just humming under his breath.
Qissax wavered, then went slithering through the mansion, securing the [Majordomo], the cowering [Polymath], and returned to Lord Calidus’ quarters, which were the safest and most reinforced parts of the mansion.
The [Lord] was re-dressed and speaking into a stone.
“Yes, right now. I’m about to die. I can see them outside the window. Here!”
He held up the scrying orb.
“Yes, I thought you could see through the scrying orb. I want Sir Relz, not that delightfully alluring Miss Drassi. You heard me! I’m weeping tears of blood here, but I insist on Channel 1 News! Okay, five minutes. Hurry up or I might be disemboweled or some such.”
He sat back in his chair, adjusted his clothing in a little hand-mirror—not to look better, but to actually open one button on his collar so he appeared more slovenly, and then he turned.
“Everyone out. Not a word spoken. Oh good, you’re alive, Zeomtoril. I think mixing your potions with the Rxlvn would probably kill us but for our Skill-livers.”
“C-Calidus, tell me you have an escape route! We’re dead!”
Zeomtoril was wailing. He was dead white, and Calidus smiled at his friend.
“They knocked out the teleportation spells in the area, didn’t they? I told you that your escape routes never work, Zeomtoril. Just give me ten minutes, Qissax. No, wait, fifteen, given I have a five minute-hold…it’ll be fine.”
He stood at the windows, watching as the Adventurer’s Guild took more fire. A black shape leapt down off a roof, and a dozen crossbow bolts feathered the enemy [Assassin]. Calidus just stood there, and when he turned to the uncomprehending staff, [Assassin], and [Polymath], he breathed in and out.
Then they beheld him truly. The mad [Genius], whose eyes flashed and who grinned with all the delight in the world.
“Don’t you feel alive? This is wonderful!”
He threw open the windows, vomited out of them again, and wiped his mouth on the sleeve of his shirt. Then he turned and picked up the scrying orb.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was some kind of madness even Erin hadn’t hit yet. He had vomit on his right arm’s sleeve. Discoloring his fine silk shirt—but it was already sweat-soaked and soot-marked.
Selys half-watched him as she loaded a crossbow. The inner Guild was filled with silence—except for the discharges of crossbows or the thwhap of bowstrings.
The [Assassins] fought around her, holding this place, with utter silence. Even the wounded. Pilana was the only member of staff who had been crying, and even she had a wand she’d been firing through the barricade gaps.
They were all dead. The other Guild had come in force to end this, and Selys knew it. But she watched Calidus because…they needed a miracle. Rhata and Haldagaz were in a cage behind her, squeaking. Once they came through the barricades, she’d make them run. No one killed rats.
They had time. None of the Ranks wanted to die; the moment one appeared in a firing zone, they were killed. But the explosions shaking the walls would cave the Guild’s walls in eventually. So Selys waited.
Calidus Reinhart, though…
What was he up to?
He was on Channel 1 News. Sir Relz had cut his broadcast to accept an emergency news story. And he was staring at Lord Calidus with the same confusion as the rest of the world.
“Lord—Calidus Reinhart?”
“That’s right! Winner of the Chess Tournament against the Grandmaster of Scales! Lord Calidus Reinhart! That’s C-A-L-I-D—I forget the rest! I must have the attention of the news! I say, am I on the news? I don’t see me there!”
The man’s voice was high-pitched and nervous. He was waving around a scrying orb with Sir Relz’s face on it. The Drake coughed.
“Lord Calidus, you are on the news. Live!”
“I don’t see—”
“There’s a five-minute delay, Lord Calidus!”
“Dead gods, really?”
“Yes, Lord Calidus! You indicated this was an emergency. We were just covering the war between two Terandrian kingdoms! May I ask what this is about?”
Lord Calidus’ shaken expression became one of dumbstruck incredulity. Then there was a boom, and he flinched.
“Aiiieee! That’s right, I called you because I’m under attack! It’s all my aunt’s fault! I recant my words! I swear! I’ll be good! Just don’t kill me! I’m under attack—from [Assassins]!”
“…What did he just say?”
Slashface stopped aiming a bow past Selys. The [Vice Guildmistress] narrowed her eyes as she rose. Was he…?
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart could drink mixtures fit for undead. Which meant he was capable of performing a Ghostly Winebreath Blaster.
He didn’t do that, much to the maids’ disappointment. It came all out of his nose instead.
“That brat—what is he—? Wait, is he under attack? That fool! I told him Calidus was off-limits!”
The war between the two Assassin’s Guilds hadn’t bothered Regis, but this did. Calidus was on the news, visibly terrified, and if there were rival [Assasssins] outside his window—Regis spun.
“If he speaks—”
He dies. The Faces knew that. Everyone knew that. The Assassin’s Guild would come to light in time, that was inevitable. But revealing who was part of it, who was masterminding it—
Regis’ ghostly heart began to beat faster in anxiety.
If he reveals me, then it will be truly problematic. Magnolia is not that much a fool. I will have him murdered horribly.
He began giving orders.
 
——
 
Qissax was listening, a blade in the Naga’s hand. If Calidus Reinhart spoke, he had a five-minute window to murder the [Lord] and cut the connection with Wistram.
Plenty of time.
The Face did not want to do that. He felt sure he’d be murdered with the other Guild attacking regardless of his loyalty. But Calidus could not reveal them.
Was the [Lord] just tossing it all to the winds as it collapsed around him? Surely not. He was smarter than that. So what—
The Naga was hesitating, appraising the situation as he was given orders from multiple sides. And now people were watching.
 
——
 
The Reinharts, eying the black sheep of the family who had made it to the news before them.
What had Calidus Reinhart gotten himself into?
Confused viewers, who vaguely recalled the [Lord] as the winner of the chess tournament.
But this was the first time Calidus had been spotlighted on the news. What did they see?
A slovenly [Lord], face white with fear, vomit on one sleeve. A drunk, a slob, a fool of a [Lord] screaming.
“It’s all Aunt Magnolia’s fault!”
“Sir, sir! Lord Calidus, calm down and explain what’s going on, please! Excuse me, viewers, this is Channel 1, and we have a [Lord] Calidus of House Reinhart, one of the Five Families claiming—what?”
“Claiming? Claiming? I’m claiming nothing! I’m under attack! The Assassin’s Guild of Izril is after me!”
Calidus sprayed spittle and panic into the scrying orb, and more than one person sighed. Oh, that was it.
He’d just signed his death sentence. Sir Relz’s monocle popped.
“The—what? Did I just hear you right, Lord Calidus? The Assassin’s Guild is destroyed, or do you mean the south’s—”
Calidus Reinhart had the expression of a man at the end of his rope, because he was. He stood on the precipice of life-and-death, and it gave him the strength of a madman. He shouted at Sir Relz.
“You bumbling Drake buffoon! You one-eyed hack of the Cyclops! You inbred lizard-spawn of Baleros! Can’t you hear me? Where’s Drassi? I’d lick her toe-claws for free. Anyone with a shred of intelligence instead of you!”
“I—what—toe claws—?”
No one had ever heard a newscaster insulted like that before. But Calidus’ face was crimson. His eyes were rolling, and he seized his silk button up shirt.
“They’re after me! The Assassin’s Guild isn’t dead, you fool! They’re back! They’re baaaaaaaaaaack! I tear my shirt—you tear your shirt, right? Argh!”
He ripped open his silk shirt, popping the pearl buttons off. They went pinging as Calius ripped his shirt apart, exposing a bunch of chest hair and fleshy skin.
Selys’ mouth was open along with who knew how many television-watchers. A [Lord] of the Five Families, ripping his shirt open in front of the horrified, dumbstruck Sir Relz?
A button pinged off the scrying orb, and Sir Relz flinched. Calidus waved his hands, and his voice went higher-pitched. He grabbed at his breasts, leapt up, slapped the side of his face.
“They’re coming after me, you buffoon of a Drake! All because I’ve been so open about my support for Aunt Magnolia! My hatred of the Assassin’s Guild! My undeniable sexual appeal!”
“You’re saying they’re after you because you supported—you’ve been anti—your what?”
Sir Relz, the poor Drake, couldn’t keep up. But Calidus Reinhart just kept going, shouting.
“I’ve been condemning the [Assassins] since the moment I heard about the Circle of Thorns! Everyone knows it! Now they’ve come to silence me! Aunt Magnolia, I throw myself at your feet! Save me! Saaaave me!”
He waved his arms at the camera, screaming, then swung it around and showed them his town in flames. The image revealed black-clad [Assassins] attacking, the flames—before it swung back to his face.
“I admit it, I talked a big game until it was my turn! I’ve soiled my pants twice in fear! Is that what you want to hear? Someone do something! House Veltras! House Wellfar! Send Named-rank adventurers! Send the army!”
What was going on? The innocent audience being shown the unfiltered Calidus experience was probably in a different kind of horror than Selys, Regis, and Qissax. But they realized…something was off. Calidus was speaking the truth, but a version of it—the Drake [Guildmistress]’ eyes swung around.
“What is he up to? We’re still damn dead.”
But she kept watching. Sir Relz was connecting the dots.
“So the Assassin’s Guild hasn’t been destroyed, and they’re after—you? Why you?”
“Because I’ve been so hostile against them? The Circle of Thorns? Ptuy! I spit on them!”
Calidus spat on his arm, then stared at the spittle. So did everyone else. Then the [Lord] looked around and cowered. He grabbed the scrying orb and hid under the desk. Everyone could virtually see up his nose and through his pores as he whispered.
“Or it’s, uh, my indiscretions.”
“Your indiscretions, Lord Calidus? I don’t follow—”
“My romantic assignations, Sir Relz! My bedpartners! The lovely ladies I have romanced, sir! Don’t be crude! I should have known I’d made enemies. There was that Wellfar [Lady]. Well, the last five. The Named Adventureress. One does not bed Elia Arcsinger without consequences! Or Lady Wuvren! Or half the Wall Ladies—you suck one tail and all the Wall Lords want you dead!”
Sir Relz’s scales colored. His mouth was open.
“Did you just say—Wellfar—Wall Ladies—”
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger?
The Wandering Inn’s staff were watching the funny television broadcast when Elia Arcsinger caught that stray. She went completely still as Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen.
“I have never met—no, wait, I recall that name. Was he the one who sent both me and every female member of my team, including my daughter—that is a lie.”
She grew actually angry as she jabbed a finger at the scrying orb. But Calidus wasn’t done.
 
——
 
“M-maybe it was Lady Zanthia? It’s true, I propositioned her just last year!”
“Lady Zanthia? Isn’t she extremely elderly? With respect—”
“Don’t pretend she’s not a ravishing woman, man! What kind of blue-blooded man wouldn’t dream of it? Was it Cognita? I repent, Lady Truestone! The [Assassins] are here! Or are you denying I’ve a dagger to my throat?”
Calidus shouted at Sir Relz, and the Drake [News Anchor] was fighting for sanity in a sea of chaos.
“No, I see it, Lord Calidus—is that your Adventurer’s Guild under attack?”
Calidus was bare-chested, and he hefted the scrying orb up as he pointed out the window.
“Yes! My brave adventurers. My town—the [Assassins] are killing everyone! Oh, help. Help. Lord Tyrion Veltras, the Assassin’s Guild is still here, and they’re reformed. Izril, save me! Aunt Magnolia—”
He turned his face, and his desperate fear reflected across Izril. Then it seemed like Sir Relz finally grappled past Lord Calidus’ entertaining façade and found the truth.
Wait, the Assassin’s Guild was still around?
 
——
 
Lord Etril Wellfar had been steeling himself for another censure by the Admiralty and another attempt to strip him of command of the Pride of the Wellfar, especially after nearly losing it to Alchemist Irurx.
He’d been arguing with his family about the need to take a more active role in Izril’s affairs all year. Fighting with those who wanted to pretend things could be back to normal.
The [Lord] standing in his family’s estates, on the rocking docks, turned his head as the nobles of House Wellfar saw the same Guild that had slain the Guildmistress of Harbors in First Landing reappear.
Black-clad [Assassins]. Etril Wellfar’s blood boiled, and he turned.
“Have the Pride ready to sail!”
“Etril, they’re inland and too far for—”
He nearly kicked the [Lady of Waves] out of the way.
“My mother’s killers live! To arms and damn you and the Krakens and the seas themselves! Wellfar, to me!”
 
——
 
His was not the only response. Magnolia Reinhart was studying Calidus Reinhart with narrowed eyes—but she was the only one.
House Veltras was in uproar as the smaller branch families saw the same threat that had nearly killed Sammial and Hethon, Lord Tyrion’s children, threatening another member of the Five Families.
Their blood boiled, and Lord Calidus was screaming, weeping.
“My people. My people—but I know them, Sir Relz. T-Thornvale. There, I’ve said it. Damn you all!”
He howled out the window, and some of the [Assassins] stopped, staring up at him. What was that madman doing? Calidus shut the window and barred it with his back. He was whitefaced, and Sir Relz was whispering.
“Lord Calidus, Thornvale? What—?”
“It’s where one of their bases is. I found it out. Don’t ask me how—the Assassin’s Guild is rebuilding. Thornvale, Reizmelt, they have bases in both places! If I’m dying, I’ll go out fighting! Take this and that—”
He made fists and threw a few punches, and when something cracked off the windows, the [Lord] threw up his hands.
“I repent! Oh, dead gods! Spare me!”
Back under the desk he dove. But his head poked up, and he spoke as his head rose, like a little Giant’s, voice resonant and carrying.
“The Assassin’s Guild is back. I will not be silenced! I, Lord Calidus Reinhart, am placing a bounty on every damn [Assassin] in the north! Five hundred—no, fifty gold a head! I’m forming—yes, I’m forming the Guild of Anti-Assassins! Killers who kill the hired killers! Izril forever! You can’t silence me! Izril! Iz-ril! Iz-ril!”
He jumped out of hiding and began waving a flag of House Reinhart around wildly. And Sir Relz just stared at the man until he had the sense to pivot to aerial scrying spells and…
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail actually laughed as she heard the barricades on the front breaking. The sounds of the attack were re-doubling, and she laughed at that silly, genius [Lord].
“Ancestors, he really is a genius! That might work—”
Might.
The other [Assassins] didn’t get it, but that’s because they had no political instincts. Selys sagged against her counter and explained it to the others.
“Don’t you see? He’s put the Five Families against the other Guild. He’s revealed them—but kept us hidden. He’s going to claim we’re the Guild of Anti-Assassins. The other Guild—they don’t have cover stories.”
They were dead men and women walking if anyone took a hard look at them, and House Veltras, House Wellfar, dead gods, they had so many enemies—the assassins were going to be slaughtered.
Some would escape, but Calidus had just put a giant crosshair on everyone in the north. Without revealing he was the other Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild.
It was genius. A kind of Erin genius that even she hadn’t pulled off. Selys laughed more.
“There’s just…one problem, Calidus. You can get away with it. I bet you can even not get killed for spilling the truth and beating your enemies. But we’re still here.”
Surrounded. Under siege by an enemy Guild with nothing left to lose. If they got out, they could rebuild. Pose as anti-Assassins, even claim they were hiring former [Assassins] and legitimize themselves.
Masterstroke.
…They weren’t getting out of this. Selys had no back door exit. Someone had turned off the teleportation magic around here. She stood in the Guild as it shook, and the Ranks and Faces turned to her.
The Guildmistress bared her teeth. She stood, and the two rats leapt onto her shoulders as she lifted the crossbow.
“Members of my guild…you haven’t been with me long. But you’re still mine. That’s a Drake’s selfishness. We are the Assassin’s Guild of Izril. Fight through them—and whoever survives, you are the Assassin’s Guild. Keep going. That’s all. Keep—”
She had a vision, for a second, of a quartet of broken people.
[Necromancer]. [Cryomancer]. [Wounded Warrior]. Antinium [Skirmisher]. Selys’ head turned, and she gazed across the faceless killers.
“Keep going. No matter what. And one day, you’ll be something so beautiful we don’t have words for it. Get ready. Ready—”
The barricades were cracking. She saw Calidus Reinhart collapse onto a desk as Sir Relz was commentating from above, watching as the Adventurer’s Guild was being broken into. A mob of black-clad figures from above.
This was it. We’re going to make it. I’m going to survive, no matter what. Selys lifted the crossbow with shaking claws.
If she told herself that, she could be less afraid. She touched Haldagaz’s head. Rhata’s as the rat snarled.
“Run, you two. Please?”
The rats didn’t run. Death before dishonor.
Selys Shivertail wiped at her eyes and began to chuckle again. She slid down the counter as Lagrisse drew a long pair of stiletto daggers. Slashface and three dozen Ranks were shielding Selys with their bodies. Loyalty for a woman who offered them a scrap of kindness. The Drake’s laugher grew higher-pitched as the first crack appeared in the final barricades.
The Faces took aim, and Selys dragged her crossbow up as the first [Assassin] breached the gap. Arrows and bolts erased the figure from existence, but there were a hundred more, and she whispered—
“Erin? I’m really sorry.”
The crossbow thunked in her claws. She saw an [Innkeeper] lying in the grass and tried to smile like that. Her claw worked the lever as the first [Assassin] breached the maelstrom of fire. An arm raised to throw. Falling—and then another, throwing a dart that took down another Rank.
More and more and—
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart smashed the scrying orb with a fist and dragged himself up. Then he laughed.
He howled with wit. Cackling, a gleeful hyena’s cackle fit for a madman.
They were coming.
House Wellfar like the tides. Veltras galloping in wrath. Even Terland Golems, El’s mercenaries, and his family, marching to save this silly [Lord].
But not the brave [Guildmistress] in her Guild. Not the Ranks nor Faces. Calidus saw Qissax turning to him with the blankness of a man who had learned his own value was nothing at all.
Calidus laughed in his face. He giggled in destiny’s smug countenance and held himself up on the desk. Couldn’t support his own weight, so he sank. A choking, madman’s mirth.
He forced this out of his lungs, the last trick. The last part of the plan. Lord Calidus Reinhart concentrated and summoned to him all his will.
All his desire for victory. A madman’s strength.
I shall not lose this. Not while I love it so.
He forced against the world’s order. Pushed until the blood vessels in his nose burst as easily as a soap bubble. Kept pushing until he was allowed to say the words that mattered.
The only words that mattered here and now.
The [Lord] whispered the words.
“[Move Reality Like Chess]. [Copy Skill (Intellect): Brigade: Castling the Pieces].”
His breath caught in his lungs. His heart stopped. He felt the world flash, but he held onto it. A perfect plan. Until he felt the world move—
Then he lay there on his desk until Zeomtoril rushed into the room and reactivated his heart with a shock spell. Grinning.
 
——
 
The [Rapist] had a name, and he appreciated if people used it.
Jourteben Rabeis. Not that it was his real name. He’d made it up, and his Skill, [Untraceable Assailant], had fooled even the Assassin’s Guild.
Good, very good. The man had big plans for the future. He didn’t appreciate the training, which was cruel and harsh even by his standards, but he’d realized one of his instructors was female and put her on a list.
The list was very long, and he liked to sort it by most-actionable targets to long-term goals. It helped him level. Once he had training and the position of the Assassin’s Guild…he’d have everything.
From a man no one would hire, and whom many wanted dead, to a powerful member of the greatest Guild. Jourteben was happy.
He was only annoyed that Lord Calidus had him sitting in some warehouse or something miles and miles away from the actual Guild. A secret training place, naturally, though one with a lot of food and more defenses than Jourteben had thought.
Well, it just proved he was valuable, and he’d learned that the Guild was in conflict with a rival one. Perhaps he’d change sides. The man smiled, thinking on how to use his Skills and abilities to best take advantage of the situat—
Pop.
The world shifted around him. One second he was sitting in a chair in the warehouse, in the vast, secured rooms in lovely shade, the next, he was sitting behind a desk. Staring down at an empty cage and little spinning wheel.
He felt…sick. Disoriented. He heard someone retch and saw a man he knew, a [Murderer], vomit straight onto the floor. Jourteben himself felt woozy.
“What’s going—?”
Someone croaked, but he was already going for the doors. Get out. Escape. He didn’t know what had happened, but his instincts were very good. His [Advanced Dangersense] was—
Boom. One of the walls opened, and the [Rapist] went deaf. Smoke billowed in, and then—he raised his hands and saw a black-clad figure leap into the room.
“Oh, good. It’s us. We’re new recruits.”
Jourteben began to say. Then he saw the figure whirl something up and throw. It was some kind of bladed—multi-spiked—it went into a man’s chest next to him and kept spinning. The lacerating blades were red with gore and sprayed the [Rapist] in the face with blood, and the man it had struck began to scream. Or tried to—it was more of a wheeze as air left his punctured lungs.
“Wait. Wait, we’re on the same—”
The [Rapist] was trying to slink away, down under the counter, but he saw more figures streaming in. A huge Minotaur wearing a black mask had stormed into the room. Someone tried to slash at him, another new recruit—he just brought something up. A battering-ram device which he pressed against a forehead—
Boom. A lever exploded forwards and blew out the contents of the figure’s head. The [Assassins] were charging the room and now—now—
Why, Jourteben felt like he’d been tricked. He fumbled for a blade as he pressed himself against the floor, hunting for a hidden trap door. A crevice, anything. But the [Assassins] were streaming forwards, slaughtering everyone, and when he looked up—
He saw a figure crawling over the ceiling above him. A lovely woman. The man added her to his list—right up until the Selphid dropped on him. Then he realized she had a Wand of Acid Spray, and he began to struggle as she put it up one nostril, and after that—
Well, mostly what he thought was pain.
Until the end.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart wept at the funeral for his people. He sobbed. He wailed. He threw himself on the ground and gathered the ashes into his arms.
Because he was on television. At some point, Selys Shivertail had to pull him back and help him up, and he promptly threw his arms around her and tried to kiss her.
She stomped on his foot. But she let him have a hug, because he had produced a miracle.
The Drake and a number of ‘new recruits’ to Calidus’ Guild of Anti-Assassins were standing at the funeral for the Adventurer’s Guild of Isbeut and many of the town’s citizens.
Hundreds of men and some women, murdered horribly. It brought a tear to the eye. Calidus himself had survived, miraculously, due to the Five Families converging on him, but he had sworn vengeance.
Down with the Guild of Assassins! He, Calidus, was spearheading a new Guild! A just one! He had galvanized support against the Guild of Assassins while it was flagging.
Why, Lord Etril Wellfar had himself erased the Thornvale base of the Guild of Assassins after confirming it had been trapped to hell and back and even had a few [Assassins] inside.
They were still here.
Dead gods, what a thought. Selys Shivertail glanced at the members of her new Guild, and they gave her the most innocent looks they could muster. She just smiled.
The man was a genius. He’d said his grandfather was not pleased, but Calidus had, in a single move, made it very hard to remove him without a lot of suspicion and put his enemy in check.
Not checkmate…but Selys had decided he was worth working for after all. She sighed as she rubbed at her neck spines.
“My hot springs. I just had the groundwork done.”
“We’ll have new hot springs made. And a brothel. One with Golems. You know, I’ve been accepting donations for the construction of my new Guild and town? And some people are actually donating?”
Calidus Reinhart stood there, blowing his nose, and Selys Shivertail just shook her head at him.
“I suppose it’s good, getting your name out there. You are mentioning that Selys Shivertail is your Guildmistress, right?”
She wanted it to be known. Calidus nodded at her.
“Oh yes, the redoubtable Selys Shivertail. Ready for her step into the future. Upstanding. And free this Lundas for a meal at a fancy restaurant…?”
She laughed and handed him a white rat.
“Take Haldagaz. He seems to like you.”
She walked off, and Calidus eyed the rat squeaking in his hands.
“Ah, well, good enough to start with. Come, my friend. We shall dine on the finest vittles in the restaurant I booked in great, if foolish, expectations!”
Calidus marched off, a smile crossing his face. Life was fun after all. Haldagaz agreed. This man might not be really honorable, and Selys might be…still lost in her way.
But she cared about something, like the Ranks she was walking among, giving little pep talks to, memorizing their names. Just so it’d hurt more if they went and died on her.
The rat chirped and then began to read a menu over Lord Calidus’ shoulder. So this was the Assassin’s Guild. He might not know much, but Haldagaz was a rat of honor.
He’d help Selys as much as he could, because someone should. But Haldagaz was mightily curious about who was pulling Calidus’ strings. The man was a careful, clever [Lord]—but everyone let their guards down about rats. Haldagaz would abide until he knew where honor should strike.
Just as Calruz had taught him. Then the [Lord] winked at the rat.
“And while we’re at it, we should introduce you to some lovely mice ladies in First Landing, eh? I know one pet store that sells them.”
What now? Haldagaz the Incorruptible stared at Calidus, and the [Lord] spread his arms and twirled around as he walked forwards.
“Life feels more entertaining at last! Wait, what was that Wall Lord doing in the south?”
Eh, he figured he deserved another shot of Rxlvn. It’d probably keep till tomorrow. Calidus strode onwards, beaming.
 
 
[Class Consolidation: Vice Guildmistress → Guildmistress of Northern Blades!]
[Guildmistress of Northern Blades Level 28!]
[Skill – Guild: Spidergrip Mobility Obtained!]
[Skill – Aura of Revelations Obtained!]
[Skill – Dodge Sneak Attack (Daily) Obtained!]
[Skill – Headquarters: The Weaponmaster’s Armory Obtained!]
 
[Genius of Sloth Level 28!]
[Skill – Wastrel’s Charm Obtained!]
[Skill – Drunken Mana Well Obtained!]
[Skill – Alter Enchantment (Temporary) Obtained!]
[Skill – Alter Contract (Temporary) Obtained!]
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon felt at the back of his neck.
“There it is again. Not a hallucination. Still nothing on the detection matrix or whatever you put up? Some things are beyond Fraerling tech, then.”
Iuncuta Eirnos eyed him balefully, but the Titan was pensive. Distracted.
“Feels like [Castling the Pieces]. That’s…not good. Find out who that was. [Strategist] on duty—get me every major and minor event involving movement of troops in the world today. I doubt it was that obvious. Just log every bit of news, and I’ll go over it.”
He tapped his foot for a second, then went back to conducting a battle. But he knew what he’d felt. It could be he was wrong, or even if he wasn’t, there was obviously nuance involved. Respect a kid playing with a Skill, but be careful who you stole from.
However, mostly, Niers just hoped it wasn’t too far away. Foliana wasn’t in great condition, and he needed her here. He’d hate to have to send her to Drath or something. The Titan just hoped whoever it was tried that a third time on him. He felt like now he’d sense it coming.

10.69 IN (2026-07-05)

Cosoi Reinhart never made it off Izril.
It took a little while for anyone to notice. Cecille Reinhart didn’t for some time. She was too busy trying to figure out what her daughter was up to.
Cecille Reinhart had expected Damia to go to Liscor and come back without much gold, a tattoo, perhaps a venereal disease, and a lesson in humility. Instead, the girl had antagonized Xitegen, which was problematic, even if he was a blowhard that Cecille personally detested.
But now she was…what?
“Gnolls? Silverfangs? Ugh, don’t tell me she’s got a bunch of tribal tattoos and thinks she can ‘join the tribe’. That’s so cliched. Who hasn’t tried that?”
The [Lady] had finally gotten a halfway decent servant in some quill-pusher from the Merchant’s Guild. He was a fairly well-built man, if short. Very funny; he acted like a commoner, too, because he did a double-take, even on his best behavior.
“I, ah, can only say what your [Informants] are reporting, Lady Cecille…”
He amused her. He’d been fired from the Merchant’s Guild, and she’d snapped him up. You had to look for that kind of thing.
Ulbe Tanouse. Level 30 [Collator of Data]. Unusual class. Talented and, crucially, not fired for the regular reasons.
Fired due to his strenuous and loud objections to the Merchant Guild’s new policies on contract forfeitures. Which Cecille personally had thoughts about—she didn’t like it. The Merchant’s Guild was trying to give itself more power, and she, a [Lady], had views on how much the money-grubbers were allowed.
What she liked less was that she didn’t know all of what they were doing. A decade of being muzzled meant her contacts were few and far between. What she knew was that there was a shakeup happening in the upper echelons of the Merchant’s Guild. A war of politics about its future, and change was coming via their dusty rules and contracts. But upon that ink the world would shift.
They’d always had goods and provided countless services across the world. The difference, if Cecille had to explain it to her idiot son, was that the Merchant’s Guild now seemed to be viewing its assets less as commodities and more a weight upon the world. They were quietly buying land up around their Merchant’s Guilds. Switching from gold and trade goods to the commodities of land.
And possibly, flesh. That was why she’d hired Ulbe, in part. She needed someone who understood the Merchant’s Guild, even if he was a result of those changes.
Mister Ulbe had a conscience. And, apparently, he’d once been saved from a mugging by Ylawes Byres. His tenure of over 21 years to the Merchant’s Guild meant nothing. Neither did his ethics. A month of realizing he was blacklisted from any regular gainful employment in any city where the Merchant’s Guild held sway had seen the man doing numbers for [Shopkeepers] for silvers and coppers.
He probably didn’t like Cecille. But his morality had warred with his empty pockets and lost. Excellent, excellent. She also rather found his build amusing.
He was a [Gym Rat], some new class around the weights thing that some of her family were into. They’d installed a damn smelly gymnasium, and—well, Cecille would just never go in there. The point was, she had a man she could actually delegate things to, even if he needed training.
Plus, he was so distracted by her comment about her youth. Cecille smirked.
“Tell me what Damia does next. Wernel?”
“Er, ejected from a brothel in First Landing after—”
“Predictable. Next?”
The man shuffled papers faster, keeping up with Cecille’s pace.
“Lady Cosoi. You asked to know where she went. I regret to say that her carriage has been found.”
“Damn, she gave us the slip? Which port?”
Cecille scowled. She owed Cosoi more trouble. For being free all this time. Choosing the right side…if Cecille had known, she might have grovelled to that brat when Magnolia won. But who’d have known she’d beat the entire family?
She’s in Drake lands. I should stop warring with her openly. Just take what I can and let the rest of the family burn themselves in open conflict. Then Ulbe’s comments registered.
“No, milady. The wreckage. There’s only ash and corpses—what we can identify—”
The [Lady] spun on her heel.
“Cosoi’s dead?”
“Unclear, Lady Cecille. Her body wasn’t found—”
“Ransom, then. Tell the Housekeeper to pay attention for ransom notes this month. See if the Bloodfeast Raiders are bragging about killing a [Lady]. Check auction records from Roshal—there are private ones. Or someone killed her. [Bandits]?”
Ulbe watched as Cecille’s eyes flickered, and she stood there, face blank. The thought one of her cousins was dead didn’t seem to move her, and the man licked his lips.
Had he found work for a nest of vipers worse than the Merchant’s Guild? He ventured a risk, a [Probing Comment]. One learned these things in the Merchant’s Guild to survive.
“Could it be one of your family members, Lady Cecille?”
Her eyes flicked to him, and she snapped.
“Funny Skill. Do it more subtly next time. Not the family. Not unless one of the younger ones is so stupid they want their head on a platter. We don’t kill our own. Only Magnolia does that. I’d drag Cosoi around in pink chains and shave her like a pig and make her play servant. We don’t kill Reinharts. Find out where she is or who killed her. Then dear Calidus had better have his Guild working.”
That was all she said. Cecille made Ulbe run through the list of news items, then went and pulled out a bottle of wine. He checked the time. 7:24 AM.
Perhaps that was sympathy, among Reinharts. Ulbe stood outside her room, shaking his head. No morality, but cunning genius in the House of Reinhart. Selfish men and women.
Izril was changing. If he couldn’t stand to be part of the Merchant’s Guild—the man walked off to lift some weights. Pump off the emotions he held. Cecille drank and sat in her rooms, and now she had another question that weighed on her.
Cosoi. Was it the family? Surely not. But who—?
 
——
 
Sometimes, things were a mystery. Long-held secrets that deepened and grew thick like sap until they oozed out into the fabric of the world. Great and mysterious plans.
And sometimes—the time for secrets was done. Then there was only the naked truth, terrifying in its honesty. For in the face of real truth, there was only denial, the liberty to freeze, wail, and be helpless.
Or—
Change.
Cosoi Reinhart’s knees were shaking. She had taken down a Stalker Lion with a javelin’s throw, separated from her escort. Fought off a [Pirate] attack at sea. Survived a Balerosian mercenary war, and two wars between nations, even if she’d never fought on the front lines.
But she was not ashamed to tremble. She just refused to—
The rest of her servants were cowering. Hiding behind her, quaking in her shadow like bugs fleeing the light. Her aura was shielding them. She pulled on it now and forced air into her lungs. Cosoi dipped her head.
“We meet again. I confess—I had been wondering. Was my carriage necessary?”
She didn’t know where it was. One second, she’d been in it, the next, magic had teleported her out of it, right before the flames came down. And now she was somewhere else entirely.
Corn fields. Where the hell has blue corn? A scarecrow hung next to a rather prosperous-looking farm, and in the distance, there was a [Farmer] sighing and lecturing a bunch of [Farmhands]. But Farmer Lupp didn’t glance at her, her terrified entourage, or her…guest. Which suggested he was blind to what was going on.
Or really good at not paying attention. But she had to believe it was the former.
After all—
She couldn’t take her eyes off the Dragon.
His claws were crossed before him as he lay there. Tail curled around himself, and he smiled, baring his teeth, and she thought, for one wild second—he looked like a cat. Self-satisfied, a ruler over all he beheld.
Then he spoke, and it was the same voice she remembered from Calanfer’s courts. Self-assured, grand, and the diction of a [King].
“My apologies for your vehicle, Lady Cosoi. I know you Reinharts love your transportation. I felt it behooved you to vanish. Your family has made trouble for you of late.”
She managed a nod.
“So it’s a favor? I rather thought you’d be in the New Lands.”
Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames—that was who she thought he must be after looking up surviving Dragons—extended his wings for a moment. Light flashed across the field of corn, and the [Farmer]’s head swung around. Lupp frowned, seeking what had made that odd display of light on his corn.
“I am there, Lady Cosoi. Here, there, and everywhere I am needed in Izril. That I intercepted you is merely to win a bet. Change is needed.”
“And I’m, what, to be your useful minion?”
Cosoi didn’t like that. Her lips twisted at the thought, but she had to own, it was flattering to be a Dragon’s first pick. Instead, Teriarch chuckled.
“I know better than to try to put a viper on a leash. Say rather, I have done you a small favor. Your coach appears to be burned, bodies strewn about. Ample cover should you wish to move discreetly.”
That was useful. Cosoi nodded; it wasn’t her coach, so only the [Coach Matron] would throw a fit.
“Then the rest is…?”
“An opportunity. I have contracted some rather upstanding [Knights] to do my bidding across Izril.”
“Ah, so that’s why the Order of Haegris is here in force.”
Fascinating. Cosoi saw something flying towards her and snatched the piece of vellum out of the air. She eyed the handwriting.
Dead gods, such immaculate cursive. Both pleasing to the eye and legible. The Dragon indicated it with a claw.
“They are splendidly capable men and women, in their own way. But the task is unending and beyond them. This is a little list I have worked up. Names and places. Opportunities.”
“For, what, recruitment to my service? I’d rather leave Izril.”
“You are free to leave. But would you turn down a boy with a sword given to him by a long-dead [Mercenary]? The last descendant of a [Grand Magus] of old with his spellbook entrusted to her?”
Cosoi’s hair tried to stand up. She ran her eyes down the list, and then she glanced at the Dragon.
“You’re just…giving me this list? To do with as I please?”
Another smile.
“I cannot be everywhere, Lady Cosoi, and many of these children are at the mercy of others. Too easy to mug someone for a treasure, even if it came from the dead themselves. Easier; the dead cannot right anything.”
“I might well take whatever I find.”
“True. But you’re a careful woman. And the objects’ true powers are left to the ones they were entrusted to. Or might only be unlocked with the knowledge and cooperation of those the ghosts told their secrets. In my experience, Reinharts are greedy, selfish, and cunning individuals.”
“Thank you.”
His mismatched eyes never left her, and Cosoi feared he could see straight through her. As if he had met so many Reinharts…she did not like feeling as if she were one among many. He continued softly.
“—But the smart ones know how to cultivate the gardens they raise. I am giving you an opportunity, Lady Cosoi. Do as thou wilt. But remember—”
He spread his wings, and she threw up a hand as air whirled around her. The Dragonlord of Flames grinned at her.
“I am watching.”
He took off in a single motion, and she stumbled as air blew the field of corn. Farmer Lupp shouted, whirled, and he saw the [Lady] and her entourage appear. He stared at them, and Cosoi Reinhart gazed into the sky.
Barely fifteen minutes, she realized. That’s how long the Dragonlord took on her. Burned carriage, list of insanely valuable prospects she couldn’t ignore, friendly threat.
“Dead gods.”
She felt her blood thrilling. She hated it. Because he’d delivered on his promise to her. Cosoi smiled as she read the list, then cursed.
She had no doubt he’d check back in later. Next time, she’d be more ready. Did Dragons eat? Invite him to dinner, shapechanged, then. Because that surpassing elegance…she sighed.
“What penmanship. Get up, everyone. We have a job to do. Hair dyes—no, just give me a razor and a wig.”
She couldn’t help but smile. Life was about to get fun again.
 
——
 
Izril was moving too fast. You had to run to keep up. A single [Lady] vanishing in the north, even one of House Reinhart, wasn’t that important. All the Reinharts throwing their weight around? Far more concerning to the Walled Cities, even powers on other continents.
House Terland coming south in force, sending multiple Hunter-Killer Golems after Wall Lord Ilvriss and the potentiality of a full north-south war? Sprint, damnit! 
The problem was—
Nerul Gemscale wasn’t in good shape. He didn’t run well. Oh, he had a thirty-meter dash that couldn’t be beat. He’d go through a [Waiter], vault a table, and leap through a window in a moment. After that, if you caught him before his [Bodyguards] dealt with you, Nerul would be dead of a heart attack, if nothing else.
He was a big Drake who liked his drinking and his food. He liked a party. He wasn’t ashamed of being out-of-shape. He’d never been in the shape everyone seemed to regard as ideal.
But sometimes, he felt his age of 52. He longed for a younger man’s vitality, especially now.
Ilvriss needed him. Nerul hadn’t really cared about his nephew. Oh, he’d loved him like family, but also cordially despaired over the younger Wall Lord. Like family. Like Zail.
It wasn’t easy being the black sheep of a family as proud as House Gemscale. Of being the one who didn’t really think Salazsar was perfect. Even Navine and Helessia…love them, but Nerul wasn’t them either. He couldn’t say, with his chest, that he wanted to clasp hands with the north and be bosom-pals with the tribes.
He’d met the Humans and Gnolls. Some of them were bastards Nerul wouldn’t shake hands with, even with a handkerchief. So he was caught, you see?
Not halfway between loving his Walled City, halfway between seeing all its flaws. Rather, able to see the best and worst of Salazsar at the same time. It had made it so Zail regarded Nerul as a useful, but utterly worthless member of the family, and Ilvriss had been the same.
Until Ilvriss had come back from Liscor. Now, Nerul felt like Ilvriss was becoming the lad Nerul had hoped he might be. That honest, earnest boy that had slowly been drenched in all of Salazsar’s self-importance and culture—he’d lost his love. Had someone rub him raw like a pumice stone, scouring off some of his flaws. Left him vulnerable, but strangely, more innocent. More likable.
Perhaps Ilvriss didn’t see it. He might think that his people kept following him because they were paid to, and that was true enough. But the [Miners] and [Soldiers] who’d come north—would they have really signed up in such numbers to go north for another Wall Lord, at any pay?
He was changing. Evolving like some of those damn butterfly-things that Nerul always thought looked gross in their cocoons whenever he visited Oteslia in the spring. But it was the only analogy the [Diplomat] had, and he wanted…to see it.
“Shame he can’t make it easier. But it never is.”
That was all the [Diplomat] had said as he rode for The Wandering Inn after the failed cookout, the Hunter-Killer Golem still burning behind him. He hadn’t known if Ulva Terland was alive or dead—just what he had to do.
Find a way to avert the wrath of all of House Terland. Make a bridge between the Drakes and [Ranchers]. 
The kind of thing a Level 50 [Diplomat] would refuse to take on. And Nerul wasn’t Level 50.
But he had to try. So, Nerul Gemscale had done the only thing he could:
He went home.
 
——
 
It took time to go home, and Nerul had needed to trust Ilvriss would survive for at least three days.
Three days was how long it took to ride to the waystone that allowed him to use the [Door of Portals] to get to Liscor, then to Pallass, and charter an overnight Pegasus flight to Salazsar. Nearly a day of straight travel and flying—getting to Pallass had been fast, waiting for the Pegasus flight took hours, then a long, long flight in the cold air.
The third day was just to sleep. Twenty-four hours of nonstop travel meant that Nerul had nearly passed out on the Pegasus’ back. He reached his estates, muttered to Zail and Helessia what had happened, passed out in his beds.
—Woke up, summoned to five different meetings with members of the Walled Families who wanted to know what had happened. Nerul wrote in his request and handed it personally to Wall Lady Calistoca.
Then he, well, waited.
 
——
 
Time passed agonizingly slowly in Salazsar. Nerul spent the next few days ‘jetlagged’, a wonderful term he’d heard one of the Earthers use. And they had Earthers. As a top-level [Diplomat], Nerul did have access to most of Salazsar’s schemes.
Just not all of them. He was no [Wall Lord]. But the Earthers were common knowledge. Nerul kept tabs on what was going on in the north; Captain Osthia was good enough to brief him along with Ilvriss himself.
“No more Hunter-Killers? Good. I’ll be a while, Nephew, so just keep ducking. Your father’s inbound on Wyvernback? Ancestors. Well…good luck! Is Miss Lyonette still willing to help? Good, rely on her.”
Nerul felt bad saying it. But he had really ceded his role in the north with this move.
He had to.
He’d been bested by Marvus Lischelle. Idiotic to jump in a brawl like that—but the [Rancher Baron] was over Level 40. Ridiculously strong. In time, he’d destroy the expedition himself.
It was just a numbers game. Ilvriss could probably fight off a dozen of those stupid brawls with his people. But what about a hundred? Two hundred?
Marvus’ people had his Skills. They’d shake off broken bones and bruises. Give it another month, a year, and they’d dump every Drake and Gnoll in the north out of their lands with every bone in their body broken.
And the Terlands were worse. If they deployed their Golems, everyone was dead. No questions asked, no hope. The full might of House Terland’s Golems could wipe out any army they wanted to, and the one mercy was that Ulva Terland wasn’t dead.
But he didn’t exactly think she’d be keen on making up after what Xesci had done to her.
Nerul had a plan to deal with both issues—Terlands being the priority. Marvus? He could neutralize the man and hope that Lyonette could deal with Miss Aronia.
It just took…time.
 
——
 
A week had passed in Salazsar, and Nerul understood Wall Lord Ilvriss was taking dance lessons. Zail had left and come back, and the [Diplomat] was doing a circuit of Salazsar while he waited.
Mostly to see what his city was up to. They were at war, after all.
The war with Fissival didn’t touch the City of Gems directly; no army would be stupid enough to come within range of the wall spells, but there were signs.
[Recruiters] hunting for people to join the army. Shortages of magical items. Travel advisories about where the fighting or blockades were—more patriotism in the streets.
A sense of ire towards Fissival because the war wasn’t ending. Oh, and the Last Defenders of the Wall. Nerul didn’t like that last part one bit.
He knew Eschowar. He’d been a lad when the old Drake had been in his prime, and with all the old guard returning, there were signs.
Such as High Command being split between ‘younger’ Drakes that were Ilvriss’ age and ones twice as old. Nerul, panting, mopped at sweat pouring from his brows as he jogged up to a group of young Humans.
“So this is a ‘motor’. Fascinating. One supposes Pallass was onto something.”
General Criscotta was a Drake. Oldblood, Light-type. She had prismatic crystal armor and blinded her enemies with refracted light and mirrors. A few hovered around her even now, signs of her high level. She was projecting confidence, but she kept glancing to the side.
At Wall Lord Eschowar, Wall Lord Itreus, and Magus Nmorie. Technically, the last Drake was also a Wall Lady, but like Nerul, she wasn’t a member of the primary family.
All three were over seventy years old, Nmorie being over eighty. They were shorter, greyer-scaled, higher-level. And unlike when he’d seen them in the retirement home, lethargic and spent, they had a sharpness to them now.
Someone honing a well-used blade. It was Eschowar who spoke, voice quavering, but fighting whatever malady made him stutter.
“S-sounds like Pallass is the Walled City to b-be friendly with.”
“Especially now.”
Itreus agreed. He was the only one of the three who could move without a cane or wheelchair. But Nmorie was levitating off the ground. The old [High Mage] grimaced.
“Are they still keen to fight?”
“They keep testing new spells on us. High-grade ones. Someone in Wistram is sharing the Archmage of Memory’s magic, or they just paid attention while he was spreading magic.”
“Wonderful. The magic does work. This [Low Levitation] spell is far more effective than whatever I was using before. Ugh, until I gained my [Preserve Memory] Skill, I’ve been bleeding spells. I might as well replace them with superior magic. So, what are we going to do about it?”
Nmorie turned, and General Criscotta cleared her throat and glanced at one of their [Strategists], a Drake named Thallin Talefright. A good Drake—who was clearly nervous despite being Salazsar’s best [Strategist]. Because he wasn’t the best any longer.
“We have taken the battle to Fissival, and we’ve been spreading out our forces to counter their attempts to do the same. No more massed engagements. They refuse to approach the Erchirite Spears in bulk, so we keep pressing them with that while countering their [Mage] teams with [Rogues] and [Scout] mixes. Once we capture or kill enough of them, they should realize the rate of attrition favors—”
“No.”
All three older Drakes said it almost as one, and Itreus sighed. Thallin hesitated, and Itreus spoke.
“They’re willing to bleed [Mages].”
“Wall Lord? They’ve lost nearly two hundred so far—”
“Two hundred’s nothing to Fissival. It’s unacceptable—if this wasn’t their goal. They’re counter-levelling their [Mages] on our people. They call it Magical Advancing. They haven’t done it in, what, twenty years?”
The old Drake turned, and Eschowar muttered.
“T-thirty. Before the Antinium Wars. Before your time.”
The two younger Drakes hesitated. General Criscotta bit her lip.
“Nevertheless, if we persist, we’ll still deplete their resolve to fight.”
“After we hand their [Mages] ten levels each. And then they’ll begin killing us. We need to shift strategy now. We can’t fight their [Mages] with ours; we don’t have enough, and they have too many. Eschowar?”
“I’ll use my Skill. [Recaptured S-Sublimity]. Give you options.”
And that was that. General Criscotta snapped.
“Strategist Thallin and I will also confer and present our opinions to the Walled Families tonight, Wall Lords.”
“Good. Yes, let’s do that.”
You could tell from that exchange who was doing better. Nerul couldn’t even blame Criscotta; she was speaking to three of the top Drakes who’d dominated Izril during their heyday. How did you make up for that gap in experience and levels? 
Not his business, but he paid attention. At last, Itreus turned.
“Diplomat…Nerul. Are you sick?”
“No, sir. Just sweating. Ran up all the damn stairs for my health, one assumes.”
Nerul was still wheezing. He had no idea how Runners did it. He glanced into the room where the Earthers were conferring with Drakes. Then he pulled a door open.
“Have you talked to these young people? The Earthers?”
“Not personally.”
Nmorie shook her head, and General Criscotta snapped.
“Wall Lord! They’re in a controlled environment, and we’re having them demonstrate their tech to us! Access to the Earthers—”
There were other Wall Lords and Ladies watching around the observation windows, which were one-way pieces of glass. The rather sumptuous rooms held chairs, refreshments, blackboards, and all kinds of tools to create with. [Engineers], [Mages], [Scholars], inside, listening to the Earthers with rapt attention and racing off to try and create or find whatever the young people were talking about.
Nerul glanced around and saw Wall Lady Calistoca, who’d never actually retired and was thus old guard and new, giving him a frown. He just shrugged and held out a clawed hand.
“I’m quite aware, General. Why don’t we treat these young folk like people rather than test subjects, eh? Might be important. Hello, Diplomat Nerul!”
He strode into the room, and a young man jumped and nearly dropped a prototype motor he’d helped rig up. Nerul walked forwards, apologized about the sweat, and shook hands. He made the [General] enter the room with the noble Drakes and actually meet the Earthers.
“I’m not actually a—an [Engineer], you see. I just know a bit about making things. From repairing my piano.”
“You’re a—a [Pianist], Mister Scofield? That’s that musical instrument the Gnolls made, didn’t they? Commendable to be so gifted so young.”
General Criscotta was highly uncomfortable until the fellow explained.
“I’m not that young, General. I’m nearly thirty.”
“You are?”
She gave him a double-take; she couldn’t read Humans at all. The [Pianist] smiled.
“I’d love to play something. I can use the harpsichord—but I am somewhat good at the piano.”
“Most of you Earthers seem to be accomplished in some way. I, ah—I had your file here; forgive me, we’ve been at war. What are you known for?”
The [General] stood there awkwardly as Eschowar and the other Walled Families spoke to a young woman half Scofield’s age. Nerul saw Wall Lady Calistoca eying the girl, who was wistfully talking about meeting Troy and was, in fact, deathly afraid of heights. Calistoca broke in.
“I don’t care for them myself. We have rings—has no one given her one for altitude fright? You. Grab one, now. And if you haven’t seen the lower floors—dine with me tonight. I have rooms lower down in my tower.”
She pointedly did not look at Itreus, her divorced husband, who stood to the side, not really meeting her eyes. Calistoca took the girl’s hand.
“Enough of these tests. She’s, what, fifteen?”
Nerul just watched. It had only taken three Skills, one of which was [Hint of Empathy], and it was only a prod. His people weren’t monsters—most of them.
He saw General Criscotta fiddling with her notes, and Scofield smiled with self-evident pride.
“I’m just known for being a [Pianist], General. I won a few awards in my world. I played in the Royal Albert Hall when I was seventeen. That’s…akin to playing for royalty, I suppose. I was given a few Skills when I appeared here. [Mesmerising Performance]. [World-Class Solo].”
Old Itreus’ head turned, and his eyes lit up as General Criscotta did a double-take. Nerul’s own earholes tingled.
He’s outstanding. Itreus was over like a shot; he loved the arts. Nerul smiled and tiptoed backwards. His heart was still pounding—from that damn run.
Dead gods. He began to jog out of the room, then decided he could take a rest for fifteen minutes.
His legs were killing him. And this was just busy-work while he waited. He’d go push them all later, but he had to get through all the damn bureaucracy first.
Nerul just hoped Ilvriss was alright.
 
——
 
Ilvriss had no idea what Nerul was up to. He wished his uncle would come back, but all Nerul wrote was—
 
Busy in Salazsar. Might be another week. Two, even. I’m going to fly to Pallass on your coins now and then. Needed expense, Nephew. Try not to die or get your brains punched out. Apologies.
 
Ilvriss had to trust him. It wasn’t like things were going bad, necessarily.
Okay, they weren’t great. The [Ranchers] kept brawling. Ilvriss was very worried about the Golems coming to murder him. And they had undead problems.
The day after the undead had burst out of Dig Site #3 and nearly murdered Osthia, he was giving orders.
“We need to take them out. I want breaching teams and a full offensive, Major Shellc.”
“You’ll have it, Wall Lord. Just bear in mind that I never fought in tunnels.”
The Drake [Swordgrace Major]’s good eye glinted. He was an excellent commander, and Ilvriss was grateful his father had left the Major here. Ilvriss muttered.
“If you need me, I can—”
“We don’t risk you at the front, with respect, sir.”
“Argh—fine. But I want you to call on me if there’s a breach and I’m here, understood?”
Shellc nodded. He placated as Ilvriss paced around.
“We’ll shred the undead. They’re not infinite, just dangerous, sir. Captain Asrira prevented this from being a massacre.”
“Yes. Yes, how is she?”
She’d seemed—badly rattled. Shellc just shrugged.
“Shock. Those Sisters of Chell are damned brave. Brave as any I’ve served with in Rhir, but undergeared. I had my doubts, but now I just want them armed up and trained.”
Ilvriss sagged. Oh, yes, the Sisters. Dead. Minced by the monsters, only a few, but—
“I’ll make more apologies to their command. Xesci knows them, and they are…we’ll issue pensions. Asrira is taking charge of that.”
“I had no doubts, sir.”
There was so much to do. Ilvriss turned and had Welsca put a reminder in for him to look at the matter if Osthia wasn’t able to see to it when she was rested. But she wasn’t in danger, and they’d given her a potion. They had enough from the inn; she shouldn’t have gone around without, despite the shortage.
And he had more to do. That was the blunt truth of it. Ilvriss had to leave Osthia to sort out the Sisters because…even with Shellc, even with Osthia, he was a busy Drake.
True, he spent every third day dancing it felt like, but damnit, that was hard too!
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was used to riding back to the [Door of Portals] to visit The Wandering Inn. So much so that Welsca reported she’d actually gained a Skill: [Company: Fast Travels]. It made the ride even faster, which he greatly appreciated. One less hour in the saddle was one hour more to do anything more important.
He put in a bonus in her paycheck and bought her a ticket for Barehoof Kitchens, which he knew she loved. Not a group ticket. When he handed her the card for three, he smiled.
“We’re still trying to keep—how did Xesci put it? The mandated authority out of private time, Welsca.”
“Oh, you didn’t need to, Wall Lord—I would be happy to have you and the others—”
The Drake [Adjutant] flushed, but Ilvriss just pressed the ticket into her claws.
“Nonsense. Enjoy yourself. I believe that’s the right number?”
She had a friend among his command staff, Adriaca, another [Adjutant] who specialized in paperwork. Welsca blinked at the card.
“Three’s perfect, Wall Lord. I actually have this friend in Pallass. Miss Rubri. She’s one of the up-and-coming [Reporters] on Channel 2?”
“Really? When did you meet her?”
“Well, when we were staying in Pallass—she was just one of Miss Drassi’s news crew. Now Channel 2 is so expansive, some of them are getting their own timeslots. I’m amazed you knew! I don’t think I brought it up in passing more than once…”
Ilvriss coughed and neglected to tell Welsca that Xesci had actually used a Skill to calculate the gift. It wouldn’t have made the [Adjutant] happier, quite the contrary.
“It just lodged in my memory. Once again, congratulations, and here’s to more levels, eh?”
She bowed, and that was that. Ilvriss needn’t have bothered; gifts for Skills or non-capstone levels were not obligatory, but it was the kind of thing a good company leader did. And he tried to be one.
He just…
Nothing was the same here.
 
——
 
Ilvriss was hiding from Lyonette that evening. She wanted to start dance practice. His shins hurt.
His thighs hurt.
His instep hurt.
His toes hurt.
The Wall Lord kept massaging them as he squatted next to another over a toilet. A compromising position to be in, but Ilvriss had been doing much the same thing when he and Erin had tried to unclog his personal toilet, so he had practice, weirdly enough.
“What do you think, Master Oidhol?”
“I think that if they’re using acid to clear the sewage, they’d better stop it when they get pipework installed or make sure it’s enchanted metal and has a gas-dispersal valve.”
The Drake grunted as he wiped the toilet seat with an enchanted handkerchief. Ilvriss raised his brows.
“That’s a thing?”
“Oh yes. Fumes do nasty things if they build up. I don’t know what acid fumes are like. Either it’ll just create scaling that’s acid-proof and clog the pipes—or it builds up. Ruptures the pipes, or just comes back up the chute at the wrong moment.”
“Appalling. But what do you think? This is just a side-project, obviously—”
“Bah, Master Hexel’s already laid down pipework. It’s a clean pit. Let me get permission from him and run a line. I’d call it forty minutes, tops.”
“Wh—really?”
Ilvriss was delighted. The Drake just gave him a nod. They stood and exited the outhouse together, which got them a long, long look from Peggy.
No less long than the look Master Oidhol shot the Goblin, but he was on the clock and on the job, so he strode over across the wet grass to a section behind the neat row of outhouses. Which were fine, serviceable, acid-cleaned, as good as you got without plumbing.
Yet the future was here, and it was in a line of familiar little sticks with blue paint on them sticking out of the ground. Master Oidhol nodded to them.
“See that? Pipework. It’ll be simple enough to join up the outhouses. I was told it’ll be for that big inn there. But it’s functional; you’d have put that in with the foundations so why not use it?”
Ilvriss rubbed his claws together.
“How soon can you begin?”
For answer, the [Master Plumber] called for shovels and three of his helpers, and they just got to digging. They had Skills as well, for fast-joining pipes and making sure water wouldn’t leak. The wet soil shifted faster once some of the Rheirgest [Necromancers] noticed and had their undead do the digging.
That nearly had Master Oidhol leap out of his work clothes in fright, but then he was alternating between hopping down to check his subordinates’ work as they joined pipe, eying the undead, and talking with the [Necromancers] about the cost of plumbing for their village. Not that he was offering to work for them or they were asking to hire him; they clearly thought they could copy his work.
Ilvriss watched with the experience of a man paying for all this who knew not to get in the way. Oidhol relaxed when he realized Ilvriss was going to watch and wanted to talk.
“No issues, Master Oidhol? Can we get you any more help?”
Ilvriss pointedly glanced at the ‘Out of Use’ sign on the outhouses. None of the plumbers wanted…extra material to work with when they actually set up the pipework. Peggy was dancing around in a circle since she’d been told the work would be done within minutes, and the [Master Plumber] sounded confident.
“Rain’s annoying, but it’s not hard to lay piping. Your place in the north sounds like a nightmare though, if I can say so, Wall Lord. Just need more pipes…damn, our bags of holding are too full. Someone empty theirs and just toss down what’s needed, I can’t sort this!”
“If you tell me which pieces are which, I can hand them down at least.”
If it was weird to the Salazsarian [Master Plumber], Oidhol, for a Wall Lord to want to roll up his sleeves and dig a sceptic system, he made no comment. He and four apprentices did all the fitting, anyways. Everyone watched with interest; plumbing was fascinating to peoples like the Goblins who’d never seen it, and even Hexel came over to inspect Oidhol’s work.
“That’s fast work. Although you’re using ceramics?”
“Good for cheap work, sir. Since your inn will be permanent, I figured the Wall Lord didn’t care to waste coin.”
The Drakes were a bit…leery around a Lamia, but nothing bad since Salazsar was a big city. Plus, Hexel was practically reassuring compared to Antinium, Goblins, or undead. Hexel nodded.
“What does Salazsar use if not that? We’re going to use copper piping.”
“We have a special blend alloy. Mix of steel, silver for purification, copper—it holds up decently. Hey, someone get a D11 straight for the [Architect]! [Quickwrap]—[Leak Check]—fitting’s done. Hey! That one has a leak!”
They were joining together pieces of pipe like a puzzle with rapid speed. Ilvriss stopped digging with some Antinium in the rain and watched as another section was put together. The [Plumbers] were halfway towards the outhouses already. Hexel smiled.
“It seems like you have the work well in hand, Master Plumber. I’d be interested in hiring you if you were free…?”
Oidhol glanced up at Ilvriss, then shook his head.
“Can’t, sir. Wall Lord Ilvriss has hired me for several months on retainer. I’m bound for the, uh, Cowpat Plains?”
Hexel paused.
“You poor man. Enjoy counterlevelling.”
He slithered off, shuddering, and Oidhol knelt in the rain a second. Ilvriss called down to him.
“I do appreciate you flying from Salazsar for this, Master Oidhol. I know it’s not the most crucial thing to many, but to me, it’s important…”
The Drake left the hole and stood in the rain. He was stocky, a working Drake in overalls, but he glanced at the Wall Lord.
“I was surprised to get the call, Wall Lord Ilvriss. But I thought it’d be an adventure. And if I’m needed—a Drake’s got to do his part.”
“And you are, Master Oidhol, believe me. I appreciate this too.”
Ilvriss held out a claw, because they hadn’t shaken hands. Oidhol hesitated.
“I’ve got a bit of a mess on me, Wall Lord—”
“Nonsense, man. I’ve been digging with you.”
The [Plumber] took Ilvriss’ claw and shook it, then smiled for half a second.
“I’ve never shaken hands with a Lord of the Walls before. You really are the strangest Wall Lord in Salazsar, if you don’t mind me saying so, sir.”
A few Drakes around him appeared scandalized, but Ilvriss just frowned.
“Surely that’s Wall Lord Tasilt. Or Wall Lord Brilm? I can see top five, but…me?”
A grin was his only response. Shy; Oidhol got back to work, unwilling to elaborate. Ilvriss just admired the toilets.
Then used one after Master Oidhol said he was done.
“Ahh.”
He sat back after cranking a knob next to the toilet seat. Which was still less-impressive than back in Salazsar where it was automatic or there was a button. But small things.
Bidets.
Bidets were a common-enough phenomenon among civilized species, which seemed to be few and far between in the world. The concept was simple, as Ilvriss had explained to Erin multiple times.
When one…finished their business on the toilet seat, there was usually a mess. In half the cases. When one had a mess on their posterior, there were a number of ways of dealing with it, as any Umbral Throne survivor could tell you.
Toilet paper was common. But expensive at times! Did you know what went into making the stuff? Leaves or sand had been used in lieu of it in less-rich places. Papyrus and [Cleanse] spells if you were just insane and magically-inclined.
Or…a hand…
Desperate times called for unspeakable measures. But ask yourself this: why use paper? Why not something more efficient like, say, heated water?
It was a bit complex, and Ilvriss would own that. You needed a [Plumber] and magic. In this case, a separate tank with a heating rune installed and another one that propelled water—and a valve to open and close the stream. But with the expertise Salazsar employed, you could get, on command, a jet of warm water aimed precisely at a dirty spot on your behind as you sat after finishing your business.
It wasn’t grosser than toilet paper, no matter what Erin said. It was less wasteful, and if you included a hot-air function, you had the most superior of cleansing systems. Ilvriss sat in the outhouse outside of The Wandering Inn, listening to the rain pattering down on the roof, and patted himself on the back for bringing a bit of civility here.
He heard the door to another outhouse open, close. Mercifully, no sound or smells as he let himself dry and checked the condition of the bidet. Excellent, most excellent.
Then—a scream.
Ilvriss emerged from his toilet just in time to see Lyonette du Marquin nearly explode out of hers. She was fiddling with her dress.
“What was—who put—”
Ah. She’d found the valve before he’d broken the good news to everyone. Ilvriss coughed.
“Ah, Lyonette. I’ve finally made good on my promise!”
She stared at him, red-faced, and he remembered he was hiding from her. Ilvriss hesitated.
“The bidet?”
“The—that’s not a prank? You use that?”
Lyonette pointed to her toilet, which was still shooting water up. Ilvriss eyed her and then turned to Master Oidhol. The two Drakes regarded Lyonette with disgust. She grew redder.
“Absolutely not! Take it out! Take it out—”
 
——
 
“Mrsha, your mother is an uncivilized donkey with similar hygiene on her rear end.”
“Mrsha, sweetie, tell Wall Lord Ilvriss not to spray water at ladies’ behinds without consent.”
“I don’t spray it at women’s behinds, Miss Marquin. I’m an equal-opportunity sprayer. Er…let me rephrase that.”
“Oh, no, don’t. You’ve made your point.”
Mrsha the Highly Uncomfortable sat as Lyonette and Ilvriss glared at each other as they stretched, preparing for their now-usual dance practice. She held up a card.
Can I go now?
“No!”
Both [Princess] and Wall Lord glared at each other. They were fighting. Ilvriss adjusted his slightly wet suit.
“Lyonette, I would have expected better of you. Erin is a savage, a lovely savage, but nonetheless. You’re from Calanfer, I’m told it has bidets, yes, Ser Dalimont?”
He turned to the man. Ser Dalimont the Equally Uncomfortable hesitated.
“We do have a number of facilities equipped to oblige all sensibilities, Wall Lord. But they’re not universal. Laying pipework in the Eternal Throne is very difficult.”
A fact the Porcelain Five had once found out. And a bidet would have really helped there, surely. Then again, there were times when toilet paper was necessary…Ilvriss frowned.
“But you have them. And you’ve never used one? Really, Lyonette.”
“I don’t believe I enjoy a [Water Jet] spell to the posterior, Wall Lord. And this is not a topic that a young girl should be hearing!”
Precisely. So if I can just go instead of listening to this fight—
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ tail lashed the ground as he bounced on the toes of his dancing boots. Lyonette finished lacing up the Highsteppers of House Lischelle, the new Heirloom Artifact she’d made that gave her three dances despite her weakened body and reflexes. The Wall Lord put his hands on his hips.
“I would have thought a [Princess], nay, a [Worldly Princess], would try more experiences, Miss Marquin. But it seems that you’re more hidebound than I thought.”
Oh snap. Ser Dalimont and Mrsha edged for the door as Lyonette’s cheeks flamed. Ilvriss regretted the comment at once. He had a bit of a…a sharp tongue. He hadn’t realized it until Nanette had pointed it out to him. Lyonette folded her arms as she hopped from foot to foot, like a [Boxer] warming up. He eyed her hands as she smiled sweetly.
“And you, Wall Lord Ilvriss, seem to keep projecting your Salazsarian values all over the people you meet. I suppose even when you’ve changed, you can’t help but look down on anyone who doesn’t share your exact culture, eh?”
That one stung. Because it dovetailed with Ilvriss’ entire experience in the town of Thirthoof and…well, the entire expedition. He stood still and didn’t jump into the first steps of the warmup song, Relz du Marqfin, as Ser Dalimont triggered the music.
Lyonette hesitated as she began to glide across the ground. She stopped, embarrassed.
“I—that might have been too far.”
“No, it’s quite accurate. I should have warned you rather than laughed about the bidet. I just wanted to give the opportunity, but it is high-and-mighty, isn’t it?”
“What? No, I’m just—”
Lyonette turned to Dalimont, and he gave her a thumbs up and motions to indicate she was on her own. She glared at him.
“I didn’t mean it, Ilvriss! And I admit, I was highly sheltered, so I never took advantage of the bidets when I could have. I apologize.”
“No, no, I do.”
“It’s a silly fight. I was just mad you were hiding from me, or so I felt—”
“Well, I was.”
He admitted that. Lyonette was a dancing fiend. Ever since she’d found out she could keep dancing despite her condition, she had him dancing.
And the Highstepper sucked. It was the most complicated, ankle-breaking dance Ilvriss had ever found in his life, and Lyonette insisted on practicing three dances with her boots…twice a day, since her boots would recharge enough for a second go-round after twelve hours.
One warmup dance, which was a ‘standard’ Terandrian or Izrilian dance, already damn complex. Next, the Highstepper. After Ilvriss stopped holding his shins and his heart-rate had dropped to under a hundred and eighty beats-per-minute, they tried Erin Solstice’s dance. After that, even Lyonette was so embarrassed she’d let him limp away to sit in a hot spring or collapse in the inn or something.
She just loved to dance. She was also highly competitive, and Ilvriss was somehow the only person who could dance in the entire damn inn.
No, wait, Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont could do it. But the two Thronebearers refused to unless Lyonette or Ilvriss needed a sub-in for a second. Because they knew what would happen! Damn them! Weren’t they supposed to rise to any task?
Ilvriss brought this up after the first dance. Fifteen minutes of Relz du Marqfin—he was sweating despite the cold air!
“Lyonette, are you picking the longest songs to make those boots work longer?”
“Maybe. I admit the Relz is tiring. But we can do at least the first half of the Highstepper! In seven minutes. Ser Dalimont, the timer.”
“Of course, Your Highness. An orange?”
The man came around with orange slices, and Ilvriss eyed him.
“Surely, Ser Dalimont could oblige you by dancing when I’m not here, Lyonette.”
So you’re not so hellbent on me doing it? The [Knight] instantly smiled.
“Regretfully, Wall Lord, a Thronebearer must be in fine fettle to defend their charge. I cannot allow my legs to be compromised.”
“You damn Human.”
“This is surely a task only for a Drake, Wall Lord Ilvriss. I admit my inferiority with grace and happiness.”
Lyonette giggled at Ilvriss’ face. Then she nudged his leg a touch anxiously.
“You don’t mind it that much, do you, Ilvriss? We could cut it back, but I do look forwards to it…”
She seemed ready to desist, but so crestfallen that Ilvriss glanced at Ser Dalimont, then put a smile on his face.
“Not at all, Lyonette. It’s excellent footwork training. But maybe not the Highstepper every time? What if we did that only once a day?”
“I could do that. It does kill the limbs. Oh, what if we did some more Drake dances? There are Chandrarian ones I had Ushar buy manuals on to study—”
He groaned, but mildly. There was something to it when you got in the zone. When you knew all the steps and were whirling around, feet flying—
Then, he had to admit it, that’s when he felt like he was actually talented or—or had the same rush like you felt during some moment of extreme physical exertion. The sense of pure accomplishment, of knowing what came next.
It just embarrassed Ilvriss, because he could reach that height on the dance floor, but martial superiority on the battlefield had always eluded him. Then it was just tenseness, fighting underwater, swinging his sword, trying to take out his enemy and stay alive. Not the rush he sometimes heard other warriors, including his father, describe.
Grace.
When he rose to his feet, and the familiar Highstepper’s music came on, he and Lyonette saw someone watching them.
Colfa val Lischelle. And Himilt. The farmer nodded at the two, and Colfa called out.
“I had to drag Himilt here. I’ve wanted to dance in a real ballroom like this since I was a girl. No objections, Himilt.”
“I didn’t object to that, Colfa. I just objected to the part where you said it was the Highstepper.”
The Vampire was eying the grand ballroom floor, that glossy marble, with appreciation. No matter what he was, he was still a Vampire. And in his way, the quiet Himilt had a dignity unto royalty to match Lyonette and Ilvriss.
Who was he? At this moment, just another man suffering the Highstepper. Ilvriss locked eyes with Himilt and saw the Vampire grimacing as he stretched his hamstrings out. They nodded at each other as Lyonette and Colfa beamed.
 
——
 
“Come on, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Last dance.”
“No.”
He was curled up around his leg in pain. Colfa, panting, was trying to drag Himilt up by the leg.
“Stop being a baby, Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle. I forgot the Highstepper had that kick. Your leg isn’t broken.”
“It feels like it.”
“Well, you’ll heal in a minute. Up!”
Both men were on the floor. Holding hands. Ilvriss’ claw grasped Himilt’s gloved hand like a [Lover]. They held on as the [Princess] and Vampiress tried to drag them up.
Suffering. One of the Highstepper’s moves was the aforementioned swing-leg kick. A standby in line dances where you raised your leg, kicked out, kicked back, kicked to the side, to the left—an easy-enough move.
Everything the Highstepper did was to show off. So you did it so fast while facing each other before switching into another pattern that you had to be in perfect sync.
Do it out of order and you’d hit your partner with a boot to the shin with all your force. Which was enough to crack bones if Colfa did it. And Lyonette wasn’t far behind.
Ilvriss noted that he hadn’t hit Lyonette that hard. But he had a purple bruise on his scales. A huge one. He felt at the dented flesh as he sat up. Lyonette hesitated.
“Oh, um—I’m quite sorry, Ilvriss. Ushar? A small poultice, maybe? But we need to not heal ourselves or we’ll lose our muscle growth. Come on, we have three-fourths of the Highstepper down!”
They did. So Ilvriss got up after a moment, and they practiced Erin’s dance. Which was…something else.
All the frantic energy of the Highstepper, the intricate, maddening perfection of limb movements, wasn’t in Erin’s magical dance that Mrsha had found.
Oh, it was still high-energy. But there was something more graceful to it. It wasn’t for showing off. It was just—
Complex.
“Argh. Sorry—”
Lyonette performed a three-rotation spin into Ilvriss’ arms and hit his neck spines. Then she was a touch too slow when they went for a synchronized glide across the floor.
Colfa and Himilt watched; they had tried a more casual dance. This one…Ilvriss was sweating harder than he did practicing with the sword! But he seized Lyonette’s hand.
Walk four paces left, perform a three-step reversal, breakaway spin, and—
It was showy. Lyonette’s dress unfolded like a flower’s petals, and for a moment, he remembered Oteslia. The dance moved faster. It started slow, with the elegance of a Terandrian ballroom dance. Until—
He extended one leg as far as he could and stepped out, leaning back. Despite his weight being on the back foot, he pushed himself up until his front leg held the weight, and he spun his foot around, tracing a perfect circle.
His tail followed him, and the Wall Lord pushed off the ground. Twirled in the air. Landed—and Lyonette was there. She’d performed her half of the dance, and they met again. Locked eyes and smiled as he felt himself doing it.
Okay, this is amazing. They stepped sideways, minds straining to hold the dance together. It was supposed to be ten minutes of insanely complicated steps. Erin had fifty pages devoted to it, and it was so damn hard for Ilvriss to memorize that on top of everything else! Even Lyonette had problems, and she loved it.
But the more you danced it, the more you just sort of remembered what came next. Saw your partner doing it and fell into rhythm. Ilvriss swore he felt something as they strode backwards while facing each other. Like ice skaters moving backwards, despite looking forwards.
What had Kevin called it? Swing dancing, country, even a bit of disco—a blend of dance styles that even the Lord of the Dance would have had trouble cataloguing. Blended into one…
Gift of ghosts.
They were building to something, Ilvriss felt. The longer he and Lyonette stayed in-step for the dance, the more it felt natural. He forgot his aching shins, his tired limbs. He began to move, heedless of the vigor.
Stepping around her, like they were tracing a magical spell circle, turning, catching each other’s eyes, heart racing. Reaching for the impossible.
On the precipice—and then Ilvriss’ mind caught up to the dance’s flow. And he hesitated.
Just for a second.
Oh no.
Nononono, here it came—but he had to do it. It said that was the next part. He even had an audience today!
Damn you Erin Solstice! But he trusted her. He trusted that damn woman, so Ilvriss stopped whirling about. He turned to face Lyonette—threw up his arms—and began to shake his body left to right.
Like…a giant inflatable tube propelled upwards by hot air. Left, then right. Erin had even written a note that the Earthers had helpfully translated to Ilvriss.
‘Wacky inflatable tube dude dance’.
Woo! Woo! He did it from right to left, scales turning red as Colfa and Himilt stared at him. Ser Dalimont’s face was a study in perfect blankness. Then Ilvriss began to do Ksmvr’s dance. He squatted and shook his fists out up and down. First on his right side, then his left.
It wasn’t…a bad dance. And if you were an Antinium, you had a lot less mobility so it fit. It just wasn’t—
It wasn’t a fitting damn dance for this.
The humiliation of this moment might never be exceeded. Ilvriss had done it in front of the Goblin and Antinium staff, Mrsha, Nanette—it still burned his scales like Dragonfire.
But he did it because the sacred texts said to do it. His one consolation was seeing Lyonette, face red as a tomato, flapping her arms and shaking her posterior.
The quack-quack duck dance. They stared at each other until Colfa and Himilt couldn’t take it any longer and burst out laughing.
“Colfa!”
Lyonette shrieked, and they gave up doing the next moves, which were just as humiliating. And Ilvriss thought—
She has to have done that just to annoy them. Somehow, she knew Ilvriss would be the one doing this, and Erin had done this just to spite him. But there was a part of him that felt—
Horribly—
Like that was actually part of the dance. Somehow.
 
——
 
“I don’t get it. She put Ksmvr’s dance in there, and it was not invented until recently. She has to be lying. She has to be.”
After that dance, Ilvriss sat, gulping water and going over the dance again.
“It says there, in writing, Lyonette ‘must do this dance’.”
She glared at him.
“It also says, ‘hilarious, get Ulvama to do it’. It’s a prank!”
“Well, why does it feel halfway accurate?”
She threw up her hands.
“I don’t know! I’ll ask her next time she calls Ishkr, Mrsha, or Nanette! I’d ask, but—”
She paused, and Ilvriss stopped gulping water.
“You still haven’t told her? Your class?”
“I…don’t want to make her worry.”
“Lyonette, you have to—”
“She stresses! My turn’s coming up; she calls once a week, and she’s rotating through Ishkr, myself, Mrsha, and Nanette. Just give her time, Ilvriss. I…you do the wacky arms dance very well.”
“Thank you. And I admire your quack-quack dance.”
Red-faced, the [Princess] went to nudge him, then just sat next to Ilvriss. They were covered in sweat, and silly dances or not, Ilvriss had to admit he felt like he’d earned his supper. They breathed in and out.
“How’s the camp?”
“Marvus keeps attacking us. He hasn’t noticed the undead, but Nerul was right. He keeps coming, damnit. He’s too high-level.”
“I’m sorry, I don’t have a solution for—”
“It’s fine. My [Recruiters] say I have more workers coming, actually. A lot of them. With Emperor Godart’s people, we’ll have plenty of hands. So long as we counter the undead, it’s fine. And we’ve found a number of items the [Miners]—we think they were [Miners]—had. High-artifact grade objects. I’ve had our [Mages] looking at them. Nothing’s trapped. I wish we could prevail upon Fissival’s Scholarium, but…”
“Really? I thought it was hard to recruit.”
Ilvriss shrugged as he sat up.
“Apparently, some new hire made a splash. I’m riding back in the morning, and that’s good news. About the magical items—do you think Master Hedault would have time to look at them? My peers in Salazsar would cause a huge fuss about them, and I might not get the items back.”
“Hedault? Of course! And Valeterisa could do it.”
“She won’t steal them? Where is she, by the by?”
That worried Ilvriss, because he knew Valeterisa, but Lyonette just smiled.
“She’s in the mountains building her academy. Apparently, they’re actually making progress—Magus Grimalkin and Lady Pryde are there a lot too. If you have a chance, you should stay to greet them. I’ll have a word with her. If she wants funding, she’ll behave.”
And that was why this was all excusable, Ilvriss’ desire for company aside. He exhaled.
“In that case, I’ll ride back but send samples over here. With Welsca. It’s a good cover story. I’ll say it’s a reward for her latest Skill.”
“Oh, what did she get?”
“[Fast Travel]…”
They were chatting after their dancing as they had done for any number of his visits now. Ilvriss’ stomach growled, and Lyonette pointed at it.
“Let’s get some food in you.”
“What’s on the menu in the inn?”
“Nothing. I thought we’d go to Tails and Scales. If you’re free?”
“Are you sure?”
Didn’t she like to save money in the inn? And Chef Calescent had feelings, but Lyonette sighed.
“Actually, we want to give Calescent a break. He’s made food, but he needs a vacation! Imani is feeding him and the members of the staff. We had an incident with Liska. Everyone needs time off!”
“Excellent. Well, I won’t turn down Lasica’s cooking, and Rufelt does a wonderful non-alcoholic cocktail.”
“Didn’t you take my daughter there the other day?”
Lyonette eyed him, but before Ilvriss could apologize, she waved it off.
“I heard about Selys. Let’s talk it out over dinner. Ugh, and did you know Taimaguros is in Izril?”
“No. Do we hate them? I mean, more than I’m supposed to hate Terandrians in general as a good Drake? There are a few nations we extra-hate…I think Taimaguros is on the list? What’re they actually like, Lyonette?”
He pushed himself up, and Lyonette sighed.
“They’re very odd. Taima or Guros and no in-between. And between you and me, they’re one of the few kingdoms that actually practices prima nocta. I thought it was a joke—”
“Er, I don’t know that one.”
“Ah…how should I explain it?”
They were headed for the doors to the ballroom when Mrsha the Changed threw the doors open. She stood there as Wall Lord Ilvriss tensed for a disaster, and Lyonette blinked.
“Mrsha? What’s wrong?”
The girl held up a card.
Bidets are superior.
The Wall Lord felt a smile appear on his lips. His heart lifted, and his chest puffed out. Lyonette’s expression turned into a scowl.
“Mrsha, what happened to mother-daughter loyalty? Don’t you take Wall Lord Ilvriss’ side just because it’s novel. We don’t need one in the new inn! Give me one reason why it’s good.”
The girl gazed up at her mother solemnly.
Mother? I have fur.
“Ah. Well—”
Ilvriss shook Mrsha’s paw.
“Would you like to join us at Tails and Scales, Miss Mrsha? This uncivilized scion of Marquin the Radiant is keeping me company, but I would prefer a decent guest.”
Lyonette began to scold Mrsha and Ilvriss as they walked out the doors, smirking.
 
——
 
Those were the good moments. But there were always the bad ones, after.
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood in Liscor’s square and watched people throwing produce at Krshia Silverfang as she tried to deliver a speech. She dodged a rotten Yellat. Tried to keep speaking—but the rain of refuse got too heavy, and she had to retreat.
Then he saw Lism stepping forwards to jeers.
“Listen, you idiots—do you want the old Council back? What we do in private is our business!”
“Traitor!”
“We trusted you!”
They kept hurling objects. Wall Lord Ilvriss glanced around, wondering if there was a moment for him to say something. But there were Humans in the crowd. Gnolls and Drakes, and he wasn’t Liscorian. He watched Lism take a flying tomato, and then the two Councilmembers were covering each other. Making their way away.
When Ilvriss began his long ride back to the dig site, Welsca handed him something.
 
Two brawls. 86 injured. Undead attack—3 dead, 33 injured. Two urgent complaints from dig teams. Liuss’ family has responded via [Message] spell.
 
That last one—Wall Lord Ilvriss arranged for meetings. A tour of the wounded. Made sure the dead were being compensated, and scheduled a briefing with Major Shellc for whenever he was free. And arranged for the correspondence from Salazsar to be on his desk. And for Master Plumber Oidhol to be given whatever he needed to begin work right away. All of this was his regular work.
But the hard part was…Liuss.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss knew how to deal with someone who had died in the line of duty or work. A disaster in the mines was horrible. It reflected on him and his company. If it could be prevented, he and Alrric would change things to ensure it didn’t happen again. If it was negligence, someone not following protocols, that would be uncovered.
Same with the monsters. People knew this was a dangerous dig. It was not…better. But it was easier, if that made sense. Because there were protocols to follow, as insulting as that might be to the individuals.
But Liuss?
Liuss was the Drake who’d climbed the fence at the cookout the Lischelles had hosted. Just a lad. A well-to-do family’s son who’d been part of Wall Lord Dramm’s crew. A fool who’d thought to ‘get back’ at the Lischelles the only way he knew how, egged on by his friends.
The bull had killed him very fast. It hadn’t been the Lischelles’ fault for once. They had been explicit enough with the warnings, and there’d been a fence.
No one went into a bull’s territory without using a [Sleep] wand first. So…it was not the boy’s fault. Ilvriss would never blame the dead.
But how did he explain it to the family? There was a temptation, which Ilvriss had half-embraced, to lie. If he said Liuss had been defending the camp or—or safeguarding House Gemscale’s interests, that was a nondescript way of saving face, right?
He couldn’t tell the boy’s parents that he’d died doing something stupid to no end. But lying—lying like that would mean those Drakes held it against the Lischelles and the north in general. It was also a disservice to the [Soldiers] who were risking their lives.
In the end, Ilvriss had compromised. He’d written vaguely about a horrible accident during negotiations. Let them dig and find out the whole story, but he’d added as much respect to Liuss’ name as possible.
That was not the end of it. The family had lost their boy. Liuss’ parents had written back. Asking questions—Ilvriss had put Wall Lord Dramm in charge of speaking to them personally. It was not his fault exactly, but he’d been there and the ranking Drake, damn it.
Communications continued. Ilvriss had taken a scrying orb call with the parents, a dry-eyed affair that was painfully polite. Eyes boring into him as he told the [Gem Merchant] duo how appalled he was. How Liuss had been so well loved.
Lie. But that’s what they wanted to hear, wasn’t it? That their son had been what he was to them: a hero. There had been questions.
Had the bull been unsupervised? Well, yes, damnit, it was a bull. Had it been charging? Maybe Liuss had been onto something—why were these Humans allowed to attack us?
Ilvriss had entertained it. Let them shape their own narratives. Right up until the last bit. Which was the final straw.
A missive had come for him, requesting that Wall Lord Ilvriss cite Liuss for a medal under Salazsar’s commendation system. Civilians and soldiers got different kinds of awards, often with a monetary reward because that was Drakes. For true heroism, you could even receive property or—
They wanted Ilvriss to commend their son with the Stoutscale Award, a medal for civilians who had performed acts of extreme valor despite risk to their life. It was a prestigious award—and half the recipients were posthumously awarded it. The [Representative] had written carefully to tell Wall Lord Ilvriss that all the grieving family wanted was his recommendation to the committee, nothing more.
And that they’d forgo the reward customary for the medal and donate it back to the city.
Wall Lord Ilvriss refused. He should have put his foot down before this. Shouldn’t have danced around the truth as much. Well, he’d tried to be respectful to the dead, to the family, but not this.
“No medals. Inform Wall Lord Dramm he is to withdraw his recommendation.”
“But sir—”
The young man who’d deliver the message was one of Liuss’ friends. Ilvriss glanced up, once, eyes flashing.
“Wall Lord Dramm will be asked to testify on truth stone if this proposal goes through. The scandal of a proposal being rejected after certification by Dramm is not one he wishes to have. The committee records such events.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
No medal. Ilvriss would not lie. He wrote a curt message back to the [Representative] informing him of that in no uncertain terms, and that he would not entertain similar untruths.
The next day, they put a story in the newspaper about him.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ disastrous expedition in the north! 
That was the headline. Wall Lord Ilvriss stopped drinking tea and flipped the newspaper over. The Miner’s Report, the leading newspaper in Salazsar. The war with Fissival was on the bottom of the page. He went back to reading the subheadings.
 
Multiple brave sons and daughters of Salazsar dead. 
Daily brawls with Humans, unsanitary working conditions?
Allegations of an affair with a [Princess]?
Is this the Wall Lord we need?
 
He read in silence as Xesci and some of his staff waited. They were uncomfortable. Ilvriss just exhaled.
“Let me know if Alrric faces trouble.”
“Should we write to the newspaper, sir? We could complain—”
Ilvriss tossed the newspaper down.
“Let them talk. I’m sure I deserve some of it. They’ll keep talking until they get bored or I switch the narrative. That’s how it works. Has my Uncle sent a message?”
“No, Wall Lord.”
“Then we continue.”
The second Golem attack came shortly after he approved Osthia’s budget for a memorial service. Long-ranged arrows fired from some kind of Centaur-Golem sniper, according to witnesses.
Four. Ilvriss’ ring caught two. He dodged one.
The last one broke three ribs and, he imagined, hadn’t been meant to kill him. The arrowtips were blunted. He drank a healing potion and lay through the night in mild agony until Courier Salamani raced into camp with a healing scroll, courtesy of The Wandering Inn.
Got back to work. That was the day that Damia Reinhart rode into his camp.
 
——
 
Today was going to be an amazing day.
It took two days to travel from the door outside of the Cowpat Plains to Ilvriss’ base camp on foot. Well, foot, horse, wagon—theirs was a huge group.
Silverfangs, recruits from Liscor, Esthelm, Invrisil, and everywhere else that Damia had talked up Wall Lord Ilvriss’ campaign. Not to mention Varnie, the [Gang Boss] that Damia had so dramatically rescued from the noose.
That gave her some social credit. More than being a [Lady] or the one who’d recruited everyone. Enough for the Silverfangs to actually be open and friendly, despite their experiences in the north and Damia’s reputation as, well, a Reinhart.
And Gnolls were, like everything else in Liscor, interesting. Damia couldn’t get enough of talking to them.
“So all your Named-rank adventurers actually know each other and get along? Ours fight like Gnolls and Dr—I mean, Crelers and everything else!”
She put her foot in it and blushed, but Huntress Rayna just laughed.
“No offense taken, Lady Damia. That’s the one true saying you northerners have of the south. Our Named-ranks meet, yes. We make a point of introducing them to each other.”
“Like one introduces pets to each other. An analogy they do not care for, yes?”
Irit was riding with them. Rayna, Irit were both young leaders of this group in the north, and Damia had naturally fallen in with them. With so many Honored Gnolls who’d passed and the tribe split up between the Meeting of Tribes, their old mines, Liscor, and the north, there were a lot of younger Gnolls in authority.
Damia thought that was a good thing. It interested her that Rayna and Irit had openly wished for seniors to be around. It was, apparently, not fun to suddenly have to take charge when you weren’t ready for it.
“So they meet with, what, mediators?”
Irit nodded.
“[Shamans]. So they can get along, know each other, and if there is trouble, ally. They don’t have to like each other, but we are Gnolls. At the mercy of Drakes, you see? So when push comes to shove—”
“You don’t turn on each other. Well, obviously. Smart. Selphids do the same thing. If our Named-ranks did that, we’d have so much less infighting.”
“It’s not easy. There’s always one known grudge. Before the Meeting of Tribes, entire tribes held huge grudges. They still do, but we can’t afford it now. So we’re all one big, happy family.”
“About as functional as mine?”
More laughter. Damia revelled in it, even if it was self-deprecation. More than one Human was listening to her, including Binevy and Sule. She’d impressed them too. Not a bad thing.
Actually, the only unhappy person was Sule. He’d lasted about half a second against Primera when Damia had pulled her stunt, and the farm boy-turned-[Bodyguard] didn’t mind his job.
But he had sort of been hoping Damia was one of those licentious Reinharts. The ones who slept with their bodyguards.
…It took a curious sort to join House Reinhart.
However, Damia was a Level 16 [Sharp Dame]. Two levels from her recruiting, four from helping Varnie escape Lord Xitegen.
She sort of wished she’d gotten more, but six levels in such a short amount of time, even for someone as low-level as Damia? She’d take it.
One of the things she’d won was a loyalty-Skill for Varnie.
[Loyalty of the Low]. Slightly unflattering, but it sounded good. Another was [Bridge the Gap]—a Skill that Damia assumed was because she was being friendly with people?
Only, it worked on…both ideas as well as things. Damia had used it to be more at-home with the Gnolls, and she used it again now.
“Whoops, pothole.”
Her horse had nearly ridden into some stupid mudhole. Instead, its hooves clattered on pieces of wood, and everyone glanced down.
“Nice Skill, yes?”
“It’s called [Bridge the Gap]. It, uh, works? I wish it were more powerful.”
“Better than nothing.”
The others rode over the gap in the mudhole, calling out warnings as people walking behind skirted it. A lot of Gnolls were on foot, but Damia had secured a horse for herself and her people, and Rayna rode in case of trouble.
Rayna’s horse tried to walk on the artificial bridge of not-quite-perfect planks of wood, perhaps a symbol of Damia’s level, but it vanished after barely eight seconds. Her horse’s hooves splashed in the muck, and she cursed as it got on her fur.
“Turn my fur white—right before our meeting with the Wall Lord!”
“Rayna, you can’t say that anymore!”
Irit called over, and Rayna blushed as Damia fumbled for a water flask. But before she could offer it, someone jogged over at a speed that made her eyes boggle. Also, the Gnoll with a fur coat like a grizzly bear and stature to match was so tall he was almost of a height with her—mounted!
“Rayna, my hunting heart, your fur! Here. I didn’t see you this morning.”
“Thamert, I’m fine. It’s just mud.”
Embarrassed, the [Huntress] snatched the water flask the Gnoll held, and Damia eyed him.
Dead gods, he is the biggest Gnoll I have ever seen in my life. The Minotaur at that brothel seemed small-chested compared to him. He smiled at her.
“So this is Lady Damia? Greetings, Lady. I am Thamert, Rayna’s fiancé and [Mine Leader] in the north.”
“We’re not engaged anymore, Thamert!”
Rayna snapped at him. He flicked his ears and put a hand over his chest.
“I would raise a family with you, Rayna. Just tell me to go and I’ll—”
“Get out of here!”
She kicked at him, leaning over her horse, and he exhaled hugely. His head fell, and Damia eyed Rayna.
“If that’s the case—”
“Oh shut up, we’re not breaking up. Just get lost—you’re embarrassing me!”
His head rose once more, and the huge Gnoll beamed.
“My lovely, spirited, fiery huntress—”
Damia did her utmost not to laugh, and Irit bit his tongue as his shoulders shook. Rayna dared them to laugh as she rode forwards, wiping at her fur.
“That’s…he’s too important to ignore, despite how he acts. Never mind that. We’re just seeing each other. Not engaged.”
“That’s an Ekhtouch Gnoll, isn’t he?”
Damia took the time to ogle Thamert’s backside as he strode off. He had to be. Rayna nodded, and Irit explained.
“During the Meeting of Tribes, the Ekhtouch tribe and ours became friendly. It’s a custom of theirs to arrange marriages. It is, to them, what their tribe creates.”
Superior Gnolls. Damia nodded; she’d read up on the tribes. She glanced at Rayna.
“But you called it off?”
“Chieftain Gireulashia changed the practice. Plus, with the tribes in disarray, she lifted a bunch of restrictions on their clan. They can have more children, and she broke off engagements. Some of them left. Others stayed. I was engaged, but since we’re so busy, I don’t have time for children.”
“Ah, but you’re still seeing him?”
The [Huntress] grumbled as she shifted around in her saddle.
“Well…yes. He’s the one who wants children. He doesn’t have to grow them! Thamert’s a [Miner]. If you get a chance, watch him swing a pickaxe. He makes it look like a work of art.”
“I wouldn’t miss that for the world.”
Damia glanced back and got a boot in the leg. More laughter until a hither-to silent woman broke in.
“So that’s who the tall Gnolls are. Gave me itching down my spine. Yon [Miner] doesn’t look like he’s more than just a fellow who could throw a punch. The other one makes me nervous.”
Varnie. The [Gang Leader] was a bit subdued after having her gang destroyed, despite being saved. But she glanced over her shoulder, and this time, it was Rayna’s turn to grin.
“That’s Sadr. She throws things. Daggers, arrows—I saw her throw a stick straight through a wheel of cheese. She was also engaged, but she broke it all the way off. Came north because it was too awkward. She’s interested in you, Irit.”
The [Shaman] sighed.
“She just wants to be highly placed in the Silverfang tribe.”
“Eh, she likes you.”
Varnie glanced between the joking Gnolls, then turned to Damia.
“A Gnoll with a [Thrower] class? One of them fancy Gnolls? Mind if I recruit her for th’ gang, boss lady?”
The two Silverfangs went still and turned to Damia. The [Lady] smiled.
“You can make her an offer, Varnie, but I don’t want to offend our friends here. Next time, ask me in private.”
“Right, I suppose that’s a fancy way of doing that. So is that a yes or no…?”
“Mm, a yes. Very politely.”
Employees. Binevy was Damia’s right hand who kept things organized. Sule was her [Bodyguard]. And Varnie was the person who could do things. She’d said as much to Damia.
“Anyone who pulls me out of a noose deserves a fair turn. Can’t say I’ll be here forever, but let’s make a deal: I pay off my debt and see where you’re going. If I need to jump ship, I’ll do it nice and honorable, even if I run off in the night. No leavin’ with all your gold. Face’s honor.”
Damia just had to convince Varnie she wanted to work for the [Dame]. And she had a Face as an employee.
A wonderful day. Irit began to protest to Damia that they couldn’t just lose Sadr, whom he really didn’t mind, you know, it was just that she sometimes got pushy and he was his own Gnoll at the moment—when they finally spotted the dig site. Damia stood up in her saddle and gasped as she saw the huge piles of dirt excavated from the ground, orderly tents, and Drakes on patrol! She inhaled—
Then retched, and everyone laughed. All the Gnolls had nose plugs in.
“I think I swallowed a fly. Water, water!”
“You spat it out, Miss.”
Sule pointed, and Damia croaked at him.
“What do you think the flies live in? Water—water—”
Her stomach roiled at the very thought. Damia gargled, then felt so nauseous she leapt from the saddle as the Drakes saw them arrive and came out to greet the huge convoy of people. She rushed for the outhouses, clearly marked, and threw herself into one.
She did not vomit, but sat there as her stomach settled. Damia Reinhart schooled herself.
I’m meeting with Wall Lord Ilvriss. The Wall Lord Ilvriss.
He’s the closest thing to the inn besides Liska. Closer since he’s so important! I need to make a great first impression. Plus, he’s single.
She sat on the toilet, adjusting her riding dress, searching around for some perfume. The outhouse was actually very pleasant; it was newly-built of wood, it seemed, so fresh it gleamed. There was a sink to the side, a hanging charm that made it so no bad scents remained.
Dead gods, this is classier than many of the privies in our mansion! Damia stared at the working sink and turned a knob. Water began to flow at once!
“Is this…plumbing?”
Out here? In the middle of nowhere? She was dumbstruck! The newly-refurbished outhouse was classy! Was this all down to Salazsarian gold? She stared around, then noticed there was a handle on the toilet.
It flushed? And there was a button on the side of the outhouse. It had a bunch of little lines radiating upwards and a little tail lifting above it.
What the heck did that do? Damia pressed the button. Heard a gurgling sound. Then screamed.
 
——
 
“Silverfangs?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood outside his dig site, and [Clan Leader] Plisce looked worried.
“You, ah, did not send for us, Wall Lord?”
“Not specifically. My recruiters were searching for anyone with mining or digging Skills, and of course, if I’d thought to ask…! Welcome, Ancestors, come in! We’ll have to have a celebration in your honor! How is Chieftain Akrisa? And—how many Humans?”
There were so many! Ilvriss was astonished! And gratified! He’d heard they were numerous, but this was all down to—
“Lady Damia? I was told we hired her on a provisional basis, but I confess, I haven’t met her in person.”
He had to improvise. Reassure the worried Gnolls and others that this was all part of the plan. But internally, Ilvriss was a bit disconcerted.
Some [Lady] had hired the lot of these people. For what? The gold was his assumption. She was owed quite a sum of it. He just worried these people were here under false duress or something, or she’d made outlandish promises.
But Plisce assured Ilvriss he’d read the contract and just wanted to negotiate a bulk rate for his people.
“The [Lady] reminded us of your deeds at the Meeting of Tribe, Wall Lord, and I shall confess, we wished to see the Cowpat Plains. It has been…hard finding land.”
Ah, Ilvriss saw the issue now. He rubbed his neck spines wearily.
“The old rights issue, eh?”
“From south to north, nothing changes. But perhaps here—”
“The locals are not friendly to Drakes, just so you know, Clan Leader. Speaking frankly, associating with my company might poison the well ahead of time. If you want to enjoy our hospitality while you deliberate, I won’t hold you to any contracts. I’d be delighted to—not make introductions since that wouldn’t go well, but give you names and locations of the leaders here.”
The Gnoll smiled.
“Ah, there is some generosity. Let us see, Wall Lord. I do want to earn money, and yours is the only digging job around! As for the hostility, everyone claims we are welcome and that they are ‘not like those Drakes’. If they mean it, they shall prove it.”
Fair enough. Ilvriss shook hands with Plisce and was giving orders to get everyone settled. But where was Damia—?
A scream that sounded somewhat familiar came from the new outhouses that Master Plumber Oidhol had just laid. Ilvriss turned as a young woman exploded out of them. She turned, saw everyone staring, and put her hands behind her dress.
“I just pressed a button and—oh no. Run me over, it’s a bidet. I’ve heard of those!”
She had a rather visible stain on her—she must have been sitting on the toilet clothed and the button activated—Wall Lord Ilvriss saw Damia Reinhart turn, spot him, and turn crimson, then pale.
He coughed as he averted his eyes and waved for someone to run a towel over. Or something. Wall Lord Ilvriss was worried Damia was dangerous. But he had to admit, she seemed a bit…young.
 
——
 
Damia was so embarrassed by her first meeting with the Wall Lord she put her head under a pillow and refused to come out of the guest tent.
Good first impression—failure. She could only show him she was a friend of the inn. Someone he wanted to meet!
Certainly, the Wall Lord seemed to need to make use of her. He was speaking to Binevy, Clan Leader Plisce, and a representative from Riverfarm.
“—have had issues with, er, Drake culture from Salazsar with our workers before. I refuse to let any prejudices affect the Silverfangs we employ.”
“One thing to say it, another thing to act on it. I have heard your company does better than most with Gnolls, but we have our own ways. How would we do this, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss glanced at Damia as Binevy waved the [Lady] over.
“Liaisons. Diligent oversight. My personal staff will take part, and I hope you would do the same and relay any complaints to me personally, Plisce. I have an expert named Xesci—and I believe I should like to request Lady Damia do the same.”
He wanted to make sure the Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes got along? Damia brightened up. She saw a number of important people gathered around Wall Lord Ilvriss.
A Drake with one eye and an artificial leg spoke next.
“Operational security is also important. I am Major Shellc, in charge of the [Soldiers]. We have both a monster danger and a number of irregular Humans who come out and, for lack of a better word, brawl. It’s not a conventional job.”
“Which is why I shall pay for these unexpected contingencies and offer compensation for injuries and accidents, but I want to be up front about all of this. Lady Damia, I do appreciate your hard work, but if you’ve heard of me, I have some requests of you, pending full acceptance of your recruits.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was precise, clear-spoken, and had everyone’s attention as he laid out expectations and background in a fast manner. He was, in Damia’s eyes, a successful, seasoned [Lord] who could make things happen.
Everything she wanted to be. He eyed her with a hint of a smile, and she smiled.
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. I am here to help! Say the word and I’ll be on it—like—that!”
So saying, she took a step, did a twirl, and raised her fingers. Damia Reinhart gave Wall Lord Ilvriss a pair of finger guns and her biggest smile.
She’d heard from Timbor they did that in The Wandering Inn. The Wall Lord stared at Damia’s finger guns.
Major Shellc bit his tongue. Clan Leader Plisce began to laugh then started choking. One of the Drakes next to Ilvriss rolled his eyes up into his head as he cringed. Damia Reinhart turned red.
Ilvriss turned and coughed-laughed, then smiled at Damia as she lowered her hands.
“I…I have nothing but the utmost confidence in you, Lady Damia. I just remind everyone that House Gemscale is a company, and I hope to deliver the utmost professionalism between all working groups. Thank you.”
Damia smiled until he was done. She went around, shaking hands, and then went back into her tent and hid her head under a pillow again.
 
——
 
Based on just…how he’d met her, Ilvriss doubted Damia was some kind of spy. She wasn’t that incompetent either, according to Welsca.
“She’s asked questions and not objected to me giving her requests, Wall Lord. Despite her, ah, antics.”
“Remind you of anyone?”
“The [Innkeeper] or the Runner?”
Welsca’s face indicated what she thought of a potential Erin or Ryoka-clone, but Ilvriss just chuckled.
“There’s a possibility she’s an excellent spy for her family. Keep an eye on her, but I doubt it. They’re good at acting. But [Spies] tend to want to be impressive. It’s an ego thing.”
Bideting oneself and finger guns either made her a super-spy or an interesting [Lady]. They’d find out which soon. Ilvriss rubbed at his ribs. Welsca put down her notes anxiously. She’d rushed back from Invrisil when she’d heard about the attack.
“Are you still healing, sir?”
“I’m fine. The damn Golem wasn’t shooting to kill. I bet the next one will just break my legs or something.”
Was this hope for peace between Terlands and Salazsar? Or a sign they wanted him to suffer before death? Ilvriss sighed.
“Tell me something good, Welsca. Please. I could use a morale boost. I’ve got upset [Miners]—about the working conditions, no doubt—rogue undead tunneling around me, the damn Terlands, the Lischelles and every other [Rancher] clan, and my thighs hurt. I need a victory.”
All his good mood had evaporated with the anti-Salazsarian press and being shot. He didn’t know how Erin did it. The Drake didn’t have to hunt.
“It’s all worth it, Wall Lord. Even the [Ladies] with the finger…guns.”
“What? I thought that was the best part of my day so far. I nearly died not laughing. I just didn’t want to humiliate the poor girl any further.”
Welsca eyed Ilvriss and shook her head.
“Each to their own, Wall Lord. Here’s your victory: the artifacts were appraised by Master Hedault, Master Grimalkin, and Archmage Valeterisa. They’re not cursed. They are some of the highest-grade artifacts the trio have ever seen. There is nothing in all of Salazsar better than this.”
She placed a pickaxe on his desk, and Wall Lord Ilvriss sat up. He was reminded of what Miner Georgie had found.
Gear from the dead [Miners]. Enchanted, but…Ilvriss picked up the pickaxe. He admired the silver-blue metal he couldn’t place and the visible runes on the haft of the pickaxe. Despite its age, it hadn’t disintegrated or worn down. It felt light, barely a pound, but when he swung it, it had heft.
“Okay, we knew it was probably what we wanted. We still don’t know why there’s a mine around the lost Walled City of Purity. But that’s a bold claim, Welsca. Tune it back a notch, though I appreciate it.”
She gave him a level look and a hint of a smile.
“Wall Lord, I had to fight to keep the [Mages] off this loot. I only made it out because Miss Mrsha and Miss Nanette attacked them with water orbs or something nonsensical. Go ahead and try the pickaxe out. You’re familiar with our Advance Miner gear for infested areas?”
“Yes…”
Ilvriss stood slowly. He cast around, then coughed.
“Isn’t there some stone in Dig Site #1? There’s a huge chunk of granite. Let’s go there and, ah…do we have one of those picks?”
 
——
 
Advance Miner gear usually was the best. Or the kind of gear that Alrric had been issued when he led by example.
The best pickaxes, shovels, and even helmets came from all over Izril’s south. You could buy the best, so Salazsar put together equipment kits; each company had their own brand. It was very nuanced, and Ilvriss himself was rather into it.
“This is a Foreman’s Pick. Pallassian Grade-1 steel. Enchanting is Fissivalian—a Level 30 [Enchanter]’s work. If I’m not wrong, it’s [Protection], [Lightweight], and [Sharpness]. We used to have [Impact], but it blew grit back in the faces of the miners. Oh, and the handle’s Sturdy Oak from Oteslia. Mildly magical on its own. This is a helmet—Yoldenite-made. So that means magicore lining with leather bindings. Protection and cooling enchantments.”
They were some of the best items in Salazsar, and Ilvriss was proud to say that every [Foreman] or Advance Miner got gear of commensurate quality. Obviously, you mixed and matched what you had; pieces wore out, and the best pick would eventually break down from the hard use.
He flipped the pickaxe up and swung it into one of the granite walls. Granite was a hard stone, and Ilvriss didn’t swing it that hard. There was a satisfying crack, and he smiled. Then eyed the crack.
“Weird blue streak in the granite. What’s this stone?”
“Our people identified it as a variant of greywacke, Wall Lord. Annoying, which is why we went past it. Feldspar pockets, see?”
Ilvriss took another swing, harder, sidelong, and grunted as his pickaxe hit the hard seam and rebounded. He’d chunked out a bit more of the seam, but after six swings, he barely crumpled in a small section.
“Damn. No wonder it’s slow going at times. And this is with an enchanted pickaxe! Well, our [Miners] have Skills—one of them could beat me even with a regular steel one, eh? Now, where’s our superior artifact?”
He accepted the other pickaxe, and it was so much lighter that when Ilvriss took it, he nearly slapped himself in the chin. He made a show of inspecting the tip—it wasn’t even that sharp, pickaxes not really needing to be, but still—and then test-swung it.
He was…a tad bit defensive. Obviously, they’d come to dig for just this: artifacts of old. But Naamreles had been the City of Purity, not the City of Digging! Salazsar might have lost a lot, but dead gods damnit, they knew pickaxes!
“Didn’t this thing glow red when Georgie ran into the monsters? I suppose it’s a safety measure—can we copy the enchantments?”
“Not easily, Wall Lord, but Enchanter Hedault said it is a possibility.”
“I suppose he needs one. Well, we could give it to Salazsar too, but then the teleporting rabbit’s really out of the bag, eh?”
If he needed more support, he’d do that, but he wanted to keep this from his peers for as long as possible. Because once they knew, they’d grab.
Was that too Drake of him? They needed this. The world did. Ilvriss had spent months here, and this was only a fraction of the bounty required. So yes, he wanted to find the treasure, damnit, and he’d spread it to whoever needed it, but not some grab-bag with all of his peers trying to hoard this, thank you! He’d take it—and, uh, un-hoard it!
Ilvriss sighed.
“Once we get more, I’ll consider it.”
Welsca hesitated.
“We have more, Wall Lord. Four sets. Not all complete since we think the undead are wearing some of the gear, but pickaxes, helmet, lanterns—even some clothing, though that has deteriorated.”
“We what?”
Ilvriss half-pivoted in his swing. He’d been so concerned about Osthia and the actual attack he’d not paid attention to the artifacts since they had to get them evaluated. His swing was completely off target. Ilvriss swung around, head turning to Welsca—
—and completed a three hundred and sixty degree rotation. The Drake’s head turned as someone made a faint sound. His bad pickaxe swing had hit the granite and greywacke and gone straight through and out the other side.
He had barely felt it. The Wall Lord peered back at the horizontal gash.
“I—that was—hold on now.”
He stared down at the pickaxe. Then swung it again, vertically this time.
He split the hardened seam in the granite wall, cutting through the wall like a man parting grass with a machete. The Wall Lord saw dirt and stone falling to the sides. He swung the pickaxe sideways, got it lodged in the stone as he failed to cut with the pick—yanked it out, and stared at the mess he’d made.
Ilvriss had seen Level 40 [Stonebreaker Miners] at work before. An old Drake had shown him a Skill when he’d been a lad, touring the mines.
[Cut Stone Like Water]. He’d swung his pickaxe like that for all of two hours before needing a rest at his age, due to his arthritis. But that one Drake alone had done the work of multiple teams until he retired.
That—was like this tool Ilvriss held. The Wall Lord shakily glanced around.
“Where’s the Foreman’s Pick? Maybe it’s bad stone. Try—”
One of his people lifted their pick and hit the stone wall, clearly thinking to move it like Ilvriss’—
The pickaxe bounced off and vibrated out of the Drake’s grasp. It fell into the dirt. Ilvriss stared at the Salazsarian-made pickaxe. Then he swung the one he had down at it.
The flash of light kicked Ilvriss off his feet. He landed on his back, with one of his rings shrilling at him, and spoke.
“Okay, cutting another enchanted item was stupid. Did it—”
The Foreman’s Pick was cracked, soot markings around the now disenchanted metal head. It was severed in half. The pickaxe of Naamreles?
Pristine. The Wall Lord lifted it, wide-eyed. And then he said nothing at all. Because with all due respect to his people’s gear, and even his own equipment—
Erin Solstice had given him a sword from one of her [Gardens of Sanctuary], a blade of lightning. He appreciated that trust from her, even if it wasn’t as powerful as…well, one had hoped. It was only a mithril blade that could shoot lightning; slightly better than his old sword. But he had to apologize to her now.
Because Wall Lord Ilvriss was now a pickaxe user. If he’d given this to any Gold-rank team, they’d probably have tossed their weapons and taken this. If he handed it to Yvlon—
Okay, maybe Yvlon would still use her fists. But anyone normal?
If that Golem had come at me and I’d had this, would I have pierced its armor? Maybe not so easily, but—
“Get me, um, get me some ingots. Solid steel. We have to have some for our [Smiths]. For repairs.”
Ilvriss croaked. Someone ran off. There was silence as Welsca inspected the broken Foreman’s Pick.
“It—it could only work on metals and stone, Wall Lord.”
“Oh, naturally.”
He agreed. Of course, it might only be mineable things. Everyone nodded along. Ilvriss went on after a moment.
“And—and it’s a pickaxe. I can’t just walk around with one. It’s too cumbersome, light as it is. I have an image to maintain.”
Nod, nod. Welsca licked her lips.
“I could swing one, Wall Lord. I do have combat classes.”
“Well hold on, Welsca. Let’s not jump to hasty—I mean, it’s not shaped for combat.”
“No, Wall Lord. Hard to block with—well, different ergonomics—”
“Exactly! It’s a damn pick. Plus, it’s just really good at cutting things. No flashy spells attached. My sword—Erin gave it to me—can emit lightning. That’s not nothing.”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. It’s just a pick. Er…with a secondary enchantment. Wall Lord? Look down.”
Ilvriss was just about to finish talking down the pickaxe to some kind of reasonable level when he stared at his feet. And he realized that in his swinging around at the granite and other rocks, he should have had a bit more resistance.
After all, a pickaxe was still a pickaxe. Cut stone like butter and it still had a narrow profile. You couldn’t use it like a shovel.
But he’d parted the rock too easily. Cut too wide a gap. Where had the excess material gone? Vaporized? What a silly thing to do if it was ore you wanted.
If you were some ancient [Enchanter] of yore, making pickaxes for your people, and you actually cared about them, you’d not do that. You’d make another enchantment instead.
Like, say…some kind of enchantment beyond the scope of modern [Mages]. Something with a simple effect that meant whatever the pickaxe cut through sorted itself.
Granite to granite.
Feldspar to feldspar.
Even particles of dirt.
And it…what, compacted it? Processed it into a solid little brick of…
Ilvriss bent down and picked up a rectangular brick of granite. Then a pale, white mini-brick of feldspar. The mineral was beautiful, devoid of any other kind of rock adhering to it. And oh, to the right—Ilvriss’ claws had to scrabble around.
Then he picked up the tiniest—he grunted. Peered around.
“Welsca?”
“Y-yes, Wall Lord?”
“Get a [Prospector] over here and double-check. I think there’s a tiny bit of gold in this granite. Not worth mining, but maybe there’s a vein.”
“At once, Wall Lord.”
He nodded a few times.
“Right, you do that. I’m just going to pass out over here.”
He leaned the pickaxe down carefully and lay on the ground.
 
——
 
The [Miners] at Dig Site #1 were grumbling about all the new hires they had to train up. The Silverfangs—no one had a problem with the Gnolls! No, certainly not! Just—they had their own style.
Of course, more hands were worth it, but they hoped the Wall Lord remembered who the real employees were. No one was really unhappy. Just upset about the monsters, the brawling—so they vented.
All the bigwigs were here today, and most of the mining was elsewhere, anyways. The mining team assigned to continue probing this area was eventually told to get back to work and check on a higher tunnel that someone thought had gold in it.
Everyone made jokes about the idiot bigwig from their cushy tower-jobs having a ‘hunch’…right up until they saw the tunnel.
“Hey. Wasn’t this a rock wall yesterday?”
There was a huge, almost circular hole going straight ahead for twenty feet. The [Miners] exchanged looks. One felt at the hole in the stone, and yes, there was a bit of gold there. One of them scraped at it incredulously.
“Ancestors, it’s gold. How did they—?”
“I saw them trooping back up with the Wall Lord, no less. Talking about how much their arms hurt. I thought they were joking. Does he have a new Skill or something…?”
“I’ve never heard of him using one. What kind of object made—?”
They got to work, staring at the hole in the wall. When one of the [Miners] thought to ask the [Forewoman] who’d been on duty to make sure the bigwigs didn’t collapse a tunnel on their heads, all the wide-eyed Drake woman said was—
“I think it was new gear or something. They were comparing it against a Foreman’s Pick. I’m not allowed to say more.”
“How good is it?”
The [Forewoman] considered the question.
“I think…however much Wall Lord Ilvriss paid for it, from the Archmage of Izril or whatever, he underpaid. And we’d better hope there’s not much or he’s going to put us all out of work. Or we’re going to add five new floors to Salazsar. This year.”
The [Miners] eyed each other. Then the hole in the dig site. After a moment, one of them picked up a little bar of gold, perfectly rectangular. About eight grams.
One of the bigwigs had forgotten about it. When the team went to turn it in, against some of their instincts, they were told to just keep it.
 
——
 
Ilvriss instantly told everyone to keep silent about the pickaxe and other gear. It had just been his personal adjutants, but the [Forewoman] and his bodyguard had also been there.
Rumors would spread. But he had Welsca assign the Rubirel Guard to the Chest of Holding with the Walled City’s gear inside; it would be anchored to the floor and watched 24/8.
Ancestors. Ancestors.
And all the gear was like that. Not all of it was so—so—flashy. For instance, the lantern was just a bull’s eye lantern, one that apparently had an Everburning Flame inside. Simple. It couldn’t emit a [Fireball].
It just changed colors when exposed to various gases or hazardous materials, apparently. And it could change intensities and thus illuminate an entire tunnel by itself.
And reveal [Invisibility] spells. Wall Lord Ilvriss realized that when he was walking around camp and a giant metal Golem with spindly legs, a long, telescoping head, and huge eye-face appeared over one of the tents. He stared at it. It jerked upright and ran as an alarm was blown.
“Dead gods, another attack, Wall Lord?”
Young Dramm jogged over, pale-faced. Ilvriss shook his head.
“The Terlands are spying on us. Clearly. That thing looked observational—though unsettling.”
“Good thing you have all those artifacts, sir. Been mining to, uh, inspire the grunts?”
“It’s sharing the load, Wall Lord Dramm, and they’re employees. I’m no Alrric, but, er, yes. Just testing some new gear.”
Ilvriss reprimanded the young Drake, and Dramm ducked his head. The Drake boy cast around.
“Er, want us to take your gear, sir?”
“What? No. I’m fine!”
The defensive tone made Dramm step back. Ilvriss and his adjutants glared at him. Dramm nodded.
“Of course, Wall Lord. But isn’t that helmet, uh—”
It was just some miner’s helmet. It appeared a bit worn, and despite being glossy metal, it was far from befitting a Lord of the Walls. But Ilvriss had a pickaxe, a huge one, on his belt, and so did Welsca and two of his employees. They all had those helmets on, and the Drake had a miner’s lantern. Ilvriss adjusted the helmet.
“Er—it’s actually quite comfortable. And it emits cold air. I think I might wear it around camp. You know, safety first.”
Emits cold air? Dramm had to get a helmet like that if they were giving those out to [Miners]. He wiped at his sweaty brows as Ilvriss walked on, looking a bit stupefied. But seeing a huge Golem like that—Dramm shuddered. This job was dangerous. His father had been quite worried about the second Golem attack, and he’d told Dramm to maybe hint to Ilvriss to cut his losses.
All this work, for what? The young Drake shook his head as he watched Ilvriss march off. All they had were a bunch of undead and nothing to show for it besides some damn miner gear. But he supposed Wall Lord Ilvriss couldn’t back out without looking bad. Dramm got that; you had to hard-commit even if it was a mistake. That was real Drakeness.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss snapped out of it after a day and a half. He was holding the pickaxe on his lap in his office, tail curled around the safety-lantern of old, when he felt it.
A possessiveness. A need to snap at anyone wanting to take his pickaxe. A desire to tell Welsca to ensure any items found in the mines were his and—
“Ancestors. I’m Hoarding!”
Ilvriss leapt up. He took the helmet off his head, piled the equipment on his desk, and grabbed a speaking stone.
“Welsca? Can you take this to the chest? I’m done.”
“Wall Lord? But your gear—”
Welsca was wearing a helmet, lantern, pickaxe, and other objects he’d let her carry. It made her look stupid, and people had been wondering about it. Ilvriss shook his head. He glanced at the pickaxe and forced himself back from the desk.
“Take it. I know it’s optimal, but I’m—you’re—Hoarding. Can’t you tell?”
Her eyes widened. She recoiled and began to hiss at him, then appeared appalled. Slowly, with great effort, she took the helmet off her head.
“I’m…yes. I am. Ancestors. I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be. I’m—it’s understandable.”
She took the items, and he forced himself not to watch the precious, his valuable—
Hoarding was a Drake phenomenon. It hit most kids growing up. It could last a while; you even had teenagers who went through it. It wasn’t always items. Sometimes, it was things you loved of a different kind. Food, especially if you’d been insecure.
The cutest version was Hoarding people you loved. But even cute turned into possessiveness. Snapping at others. They got it from Dragons.
However, you could be weaned off it. Most Drake parents could find someone who helped talk children out of the habit. You were taught how to recognize you were Hoarding, fight the mentality.
Ilvriss left his tent and went for a walk.
“That is not the attitude of a good Drake. I don’t need it. It’s damn [Miner] gear. It proves we’re on the right track, and there are hundreds of pieces down there, potentially. Enough for one for me—no!”
Some of the people he passed eyed him. Lady Damia strode forwards.
“Wall Lord, can I help—?”
“Hello, Lady Damia, if you could take charge of the Silverfangs with Clan Leader Plisce today? Let’s get them fully involved in our company. I’m giving you full authority on par with Dramm. Test of your abilities and leadership. Thank you!”
He stopped, shook her hand with a big smile, and walked on. That dealt with that. Ilvriss almost ran to the only person who could help.
 
——
 
The Lifted Tail was Thirthoof’s best—and only—brothel. Everyone wanted to be in the Drake-run, alluring establishment. It had class. It had ladies (and men) who didn’t look like they hated being there. It had no drapes and clean beds.
And the other fellow who’d run a business with ladies of the night had quit, especially after having both legs broken and falling out that window like that. Xesci was making a profit, and she felt like she’d convinced a number of Humans not all Drakes should go. Even members of the [Rancher] clans.
She was about to complain to Wall Lord Ilvriss, though, when the Drake came to her. He knocked and, when she called for him to enter, strode in, looking a bit harried.
He felt chagrined, like a boy—not just how he was presenting or acting, but he was actually feeling like a child. Which was fascinating. Xesci could read the feelings of people, if not their hearts or souls, and an adult recapturing childhood, even if this wasn’t the most pleasant feeling, was rare.
“Wall Lord. Something amusing has happened?”
He adjusted his collar, visibly embarrassed.
“Xesci, I’m, uh—I had a Hoarding incident just this morning, actually. I’m coming to you for advice because it’s still ongoing.”
She blinked at him. Ilvriss had run to the only expert he knew in personality. The [Courtesan] coughed.
“Okay. Stop it?”
Her lack of a response instantly had the Wall Lord clarifying.
“No, you see, Xesci, it’s not a regular incident. This is actually in aid of good tidings! Our gear from the mines is amazing! It’s stupendous! It’s Named-rank class, and I was coveting it like I was five.”
“Right. That’s great. Where do I come in here? You’ve stopped. Don’t do it again.”
He hesitated.
“Can’t you do something? Slap it out of me?”
She eyed him, got up, then whirled her body artfully. Her tail came up, and it thwacked Ilvriss’ head so hard he stumbled. One of the Rubirel Guard who’d just caught up winced. The other really wanted to take lessons from Xesci about how to do that.
Ilvriss sat down. His cheek scales had flushed when she’d hit him.
“That was more of a joke, but thank you, Xesci.”
“No problem. I wanted to see you, anyways. Tell me what this is about.”
He did, more fully, and she sat back and whistled.
“That’s good, right?”
Ilvriss rubbed his cheek, and sighed.
“Aside from my instinctual reaction? Yes! I’m serious, we could arm our you-know-whats with them. Even a Gold-ranker would back up after seeing that pickaxe swing, and if Shellc is right, there are some weapons there. No [Miner] would go around unarmed. Well, those pickaxes are weapon enough, but imagine actual weaponry—the Rubirel Guard don’t have gear that good!”
Ilvriss jerked a thumb-claw, and one of the Drake guards coughed.
“If you’d like to give us some gear temporarily, Wall Lord, we could handle those Golems—”
“Ah, right. Another one was spying on us, Xesci.”
He said that so distractedly. The [Courtesan] paused.
“Sounds like Ulva wants to hurt you. She’s mad as hell, but like Nerul speculated, she’s coming in force. So…all’s good?”
He groaned.
“All is not good. I want you to investigate a [Lady] Damia and the Silverfangs. We’ve found the treasure, but we’re on the edge, Xesci. Can you—do something?”
“Like what?”
“Fix something. Anything!”
He said that to her, and she was astonished, genuinely.
“Wall Lord, I’m a prostitute. You’re the one in charge. I’m not Asrisa or Nerul. I’m a nobody.”
He cracked one eye open.
“Xesci, you’re the highest-level person in this entire region. I saw you deal with Ulva Terland. When problems arise around you, they vanish and stay gone. I’m not asking for Erin-style miracles, but whatever you can do; you know I’m counting on you, right?”
He made her so uncomfortable, which was nigh-impossible. She was embarrassed, flattered—so many novel emotions that Xesci glared at Ilvriss.
“I can’t put on, what, a cloak and swirl it around me and be the Wall Lord you are, Ilvriss.”
“Hah! I’m no hero.”
“You are. More than me. And if you’re no Zel Shivertail, well…we’re all in his shadow, Ilvriss. I outlevelled him too. Even before he consolidated down ten levels to become [General of Izril’s Lines], he was more than me or anyone else. I never understood how people forgot that. But then—he didn’t show off.”
The Wall Lord sat up slowly. The Rubirel Guard stared at Xesci, and she realized their astonishment was genuine. They couldn’t see Zel Shivertail hanging over Ilvriss’ back, an inspiration. Not a sexual one, though she reckoned she could have made it work if Ilvriss had ever wanted to know what a Turnscale’s experience was like.
Damn moratorium on using the faces of famous people. Oh, and respect for the dead and all that.
“He—you met him? No, don’t tell me, I don’t want to know anything that would lower my esteem of him.”
Ilvriss shot to his feet, and Xesci eyed him. But because the Rubirel Guard were here, she said nothing.
“See about this Lady Damia, Xesci? I think she’s addled by the inn, in which case she’s not bad, but just in case—”
“Yes, yes. But about the Hoarding, are you done?”
He’d almost forgotten his childishness of earlier. Ilvriss felt it again when he thought about the damn pickaxes. He rubbed at his cheek again.
“I’m serious, I could use a consultation, Xesci. We don’t have anti-Hoarding [Caretakers] in the camp…because we don’t have any children. I still feel the desire to just snatch it or take one for myself.”
Hoarding was a bit of a joke in other species; they tried to equivocate it to Gnolls running around on all fours as cubs or Humans…doing something silly, Ilvriss was sure. However, Xesci just put her hands on her hips, amused.
“I don’t have a Skill like [Remove Desire], Ilvriss. That’s the opposite of what I want to do, most of the time.”
“Damn. Is that all it is? I thought my caretaker was really good at working with me.”
“What they teach you is how to resist it. How to think about other people, Ilvriss. You’re not lunging for a pickaxe and hissing at me.”
“No, but I want to, if not in those terms.”
“Okay. Don’t.”
This time, Ilvriss was about to give Xesci some sass because she wasn’t helping until he got what she meant. He turned and gloomily sighed.
“Wait, that’s it?”
“That’s my advice. Removing the desire is just…temporary. It’s a crutch, like how Erin used magic to try to cover up her problems. Acknowledge it. You want to do it.”
“I should be better than such a petty feeling.”
He mumbled. The [Courtesan] laughed and, to his surprise, came over and hugged him. She kissed Ilvriss’ cheek, a gentle peck.
“And that’s how you stop, Ilvriss. Shame. Children don’t feel much shame. They don’t think how stealing hurts people. They think the world should be theirs. What’s the lesson they teach these days? You take the Hoarding child to someone they’ve stolen from and make them see the tears.”
“I think it’s different now.”
Xesci rolled her eyes.
“Bah. It’s just empathy. The silly way is to teach children there are consequences. Because that teaches them to hide it and when they can get away with it. You want to Hoard because we’re the children of Dragons. Be better than that, Ilvriss.”
“Better than Dragons.”
He said it like a joke, but she grabbed his head with her claws.
“It’s not hard.”
“But I’ve m—”
“It’s not hard, Ilvriss. It’s only hard if you think they were everything you should be. Instead of a flawed people who passed from this world like so many others.”
He met her gaze, and her pupils were red and yellow today. A mismatch of colors. Then…Ilvriss wanted to ask her a question. But the Rubirel Guard were here, and this was not the time. So he stepped back and nodded.
“—I think that worked. Thank you, Xesci.”
She was annoyed to realize she’d actually done what he wanted and blew out her cheeks. But he just nodded to her.
“You should get a cape. When you step up, I’m going to rely on you. I have to get back to work.”
He was going to go striding back out, reinvigorated, when she stepped on his tail. Ilvriss stumbled, and Xesci barred the door.
“Not so fast. Now we’re done with your crisis, I have a bone to pick with you, Ilvriss.”
Xesci crossed her arms as he blinked.
“What? I’ve done nothing wrong, surely.”
“Oh yes, you have. My brothel is flooded with people thanks to you.”
“Er…because of the new recruits? You’re welcome?”
She glared and pointed.
“No, not them! Your man was in here the other day, on your orders! I didn’t think about it—but now everyone is coming in just to use my damn restrooms!”
His face cleared of worry.
“Oh, the plumbing and bidets! Excellent!”
“Not if they come in here to shit and leave! I had to double my [Cleaners]!”
“Well…it’s a net good, isn’t it?”
She pointed with a sweet smile.
“In that case, you help clean them. Do you want to know what a bunch of Humans who’ve never seen a bidet get up to? In a property that’s not theirs?”
Ilvriss stopped, then bowed to her, hands at his side, very formally.
“I am very sorry, Xesci. I will rectify this at once.”
 
——
 
Plumbing. You might not care for it. You might not want it spraying water up your nether regions. But the ability to hit a lever and flush a toilet or get hot or cold water on demand?
That…
That was like diamonds in the Cowpat Plains, and the [Mayor] of Thirthoof was up-front.
“We saw your Master Plumber fellow working, and it were like magic, Wall Lord. A few twists and that pipe stuff and you got running water?”
“Well, he is over Level 40. One of the City of Gem’s finest. And I have, uh, a Skill.”
[Adaptive Plumbing]. Master Oidhol had been exceptionally complimentary when he’d heard about it. Apparently, it made the act of joining up the pipes—which was very difficult and arguably one of the hardest parts—very easy.
Mayor Bootsy nodded.
“Any way we might, uh, pay for some? Everyone in town wants one. It’d be gold in your pockets.”
“Absolutely, Mayor! It might even, uh, help with your sceptic pond!”
Ilvriss knew she hated the darn thing as much as he did. The [Plumbers] had already become heroes to his people at the dig, and the Gnolls—especially the Gnolls—liked the bidets.
Bidet-diplomacy?
Not quite. Bootsy nodded.
“If it’s cheap enough, we’ll take it. Though I just reckon…once you and your people are done, we’ll be up shit creek again, won’t we?”
She had that reserved look in her eyes of not-quite-reproach he was used to. The Wall Lord frowned.
“Whyever so, Mayor Bootsy? Master Oidhol does splendid work—”
“Yeah, and once he’s gone, who’ll fix up the stuff? He was talking about clogs and broken pipes. And the magic runework takes gold and [Mages] we don’t have. Not that I’m complaining. Much. Just a taste of that Salazsarian class would be more’n enough. Even the [Ranch] families squat over a hole.”
Oh.
That was why she was upset. Ilvriss recalled the same conversation. His head bowed…then it jerked up.
Anti-hoarding mentality. Xesci had said he was some kind of Wall Lord with a cape. Well, he wasn’t, damnit. He couldn’t be Zel, he never would be. He was just Ilvriss, [Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence], and he brought bidets when other Drakes brought armies.
And you know what? Sometimes, that was fine. Because Ilvriss was a corporate man. He raised a claw.
“One second, Mayor Bootsy. Let me call Master Plumber Oidhol in right now. I think I can reassure you on some points.”
It took a few minutes for the [Plumber] to arrive; he’d been scoping out the town. When Ilvriss delivered Bootsy’s request, the [Master Plumber] sighed.
“An entire town’ll be beyond my helpers, Wall Lord. But I can move fast with your Skills. Make a few public ones?”
Bootsy was nodding, wary. The cost…but Ilvriss was smiling in a way that surprised her. He gestured to a chair.
“Have a seat, Master Oidhol. We’re all impressed by your work. But along with Mayor Bootsy’s request, I have a solution to her reservations and the task at hand.”
The Drake sat as Bootsy frowned at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord spoke.
“Master Oidhol, you’re one of Salazsar’s best [Plumbers]. You belong to the Plumber’s Guild, and we do have a Guild, Mayor Bootsy. Master Oidhol trains and certifies [Plumbers] to varying levels of competency. Master Oidhol—would you take on Human apprentices and train them up to be [Plumbers]? As well, I’d like you to share our runes with the local Mage’s Guild. It’s not impossible to make them, even if you have to send for some of the materials, and Invrisil’s close thanks to the door.”
Bootsy blinked as the Drake eyed Ilvriss, then nodded.
“I was going to take on locals if they’d work for me, anyways. But you said apprentices, Wall Lord?”
“Apprentices indeed, Master Oidhol. Mayor Bootsy expressed the correct fear that once you left, the plumbing would fall into disrepair. But it seems to me that if people want plumbing…Thirthoof might be a good economy for it.”
“But we’ve no metal or whatever’s needed for the stuff. We’ve no industry—”
The Mayor turned from Ilvriss to Oidhol, but the [Plumber] Drake just nodded, thinking out loud.
“True, but if you’re near the coasts, there’s always clay. Ceramics are fiddly—but cheaper. Dead gods, you can do wood. And Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site has stone.”
“And we are mining metals. We just need more smiths willing to process it. Making pipes isn’t the highest-level work. It just needs to be sturdy and airtight. I told you once, Mayor Bootsy, I came here trying to be respectful. Would this demonstrate a bit of that?”
Ilvriss put in quietly. For once, the woman’s suspicion and wariness faltered. She blinked at Ilvriss and Oidhol, then laughed as she put her boots up on the desk and sat back.
“What, make me the Mayor of Plumbers? Y’ win, Wall Lord. I’ve listened to Miss Aronia and seen your lot brawlin’ with the Lischelles, and I know how nice-folk turn around and boot you into the shit pond when they’ve got a chance. But damn it—fine. Let an old girl trust. Don’t mess me around or I’ll never forget it.”
She swung herself up to shake his hand. Wall Lord Ilvriss exhaled as he thought, for the first time, he’d won an ally in the Cowpat Plains. Oidhol added after a moment.
“Not to mention, everyone’s going to go to Liscor anyways for plumbing materials.”
He looked around at their blank expressions.
“Shieldglue? We used to buy it from Liscor in bulk! Nothing better! Waterproof, hardens fast, and stays secure for decades.”
Oidhol shook his head at the amateurs. Then rose. He wasn’t immune to smells, and this place felt filthy to him. Enclosing that damn sceptic pond would be a splendid start. Good thing Ilvriss had all the diggers.
 
——
 
Things…were changing. Yes, the Wall Lord had his woes, but that didn’t mean he was the one and only person to encounter troubles over the time he had spent here.
For instance—Ulva Terland was not happy about having a top-tier Stealth Golem uncovered. It stressed her, and she took it out on the Terlands heading south with her. It made her wary, especially since the Stealth Golem had ranked the artifacts Ilvriss was carrying as above any modern-grade enchantments.
All the more reason to bring overwhelming force than bleed Golems one by one. But her woes were nothing to the Lischelle family’s.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle got off his horse with a massive black eye and a bloody nose. Aronia, who was waiting for him, twisting her apron in her hands, started.
“Marvus! What happened?”
He normally came back from his regular brawls a bit beat up, but unless he got jumped by multiple high-level fighters, he gave more than he got. But the entire group of lads appeared beat up. Mostly lads—in the Lischelle family, the ladies cooked or cleaned and didn’t fight. That was how their parents had done it, and Aronia hadn’t changed it, no matter what her daughters said.
She was angry, upset, because of the news she had to tell Marvus and the fact that Colfa kept sending treats to her as if she were better than Aronia, though her sister never said that and only talked about how Liscor was more modern than even Invrisil, and because Aronia thought her daughters might be writing to their aunt behind her back.
“That damn Drake.”
She’d thought Marvus was wearing him down by now. Her husband had [Rough and Ready Healin’]; everyone who had bruises found them healing within a day or two. Over time, they’d beat the Drakes without healing potions.
However, Marvus winced his way over to the dinner table.
“What’s that smell? Smells good.”
“It’s a cake.”
“Ooh! But you’ve made ‘em before. Thought you didn’t like how much sugar it cost.”
He brightened up. Aronia bit her lip and clarified.
“A frosted one. Made with chocolate. Colfa sent a bag of sugar. Oteslia-grown.”
“…How dare she.”
Marvus wore the carefully-blank expression of a man who refused to turn down cake, even if it was made by Demons of Rhir—so long as it was good. But also that of a husband who knew he had to support his wife and who absolutely didn’t want to have the time he tried to court Colfa brought up?
She glared at him. She could [Read Minds: Family (Basic)] and see that kind of surface-level thing. She checked on it in the oven.
“Colfa’s just trying to play nice. Nevermind that, we’ve got real trouble. Explain your black eyes first. Burlise! Your pa’s hurt! Get some of that ice from the freezing box!”
Burlise came out with some ice from the costly magic box, and Marvus groaned as he held it over his eyes.
“We rode out like usual. At first, we were trouncin’ em like normal. But then, outta nowhere, some shrimp of a girl comes charging out. She says, ‘they’re attacking Wall Lord Ilvriss, let’s get ‘em’, and comes swinging at me.”
“You didn’t hit her, did you?”
Marvus didn’t brawl with girls, and from what it sounded like, Aronia would have been upset. Marvus glowered at his wife.
“What do you think I am? I let one of the girls push her out. Reckon she caught a few swings by accident. That’s not the problem. The problem is about a hundred Gnolls came out of nowhere and started punching!”
“Gnolls? There aren’t that many with the Wall Lord, are there?”
“Now there are. And they’re damn big. Country-strong.”
“Your Skill didn’t work on them?”
Another surprise. Marvus had [Advantage: Cityfolk]. It made him nimbler and even more of a problem to take out. If it ran out, he was still a big man, but—he rubbed at a tooth.
“Not one bit. I got three, then some Gnoll came out of nowhere. Biggest fellow I ever saw. Said he wasn’t a fighter. I gave him a number of shots. Then he landed a punch on me.”
“And?”
“And when I woke up, I decided I’d had enough.”
Aronia whistled. What kind of Gnoll…? She scowled as she checked on the cake.
“Well, we’ll sort that out later. I’ll ask some questions. Gnolls or not, they don’t have your Skills, Marvus. We have real trouble, though. I want to blame the Wall Lord, but it’s not him. Unless he’s hiring [Mercenaries]. And even then—”
She was so rattled she burned herself on the stove. Marvus half-rose.
“What’s gotten into you, Aronia?”
“Sickness. The Golvas say no less than eighty cattle have the nastiest warts they’ve ever seen. They explode. Literally explode, Marvus. And one of ours got hit. Rotworms.”
He swore and leapt up fully.
“How? We test for it! If it’s spread—”
“Just sit. That’s not the worst of it. A—I think a herd’s gone.”
She inhaled. She had Skills that helped them manage their sprawling domains. Marvus stared at her.
“Gone? Monster?”
“No. I didn’t hear from Ribreb. I sent out some [Riders], but Marvus, I want you to go there armed. With as many people as you can muster. You understand?”
He hesitated.
“Ribreb’s a drunk. Could be he’s just lost them. What’s…what’s your Skill say?”
Aronia had already mustered their best [Fighters]. She wiped her hands on her apron and stared across the plains towards where the herd was supposed to be.
Her Skill said the herd wasn’t out of control or being stolen. Her Skill said….
The cattle were vanishing.
One…
By…
One.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer had a barbeque and a snack.
The first meal he’d had in…what, thousands of years? Over ten thousand?
Sometimes, he’d eaten the pests who were attracted to his Master, but they were so boring, and it wasn’t worth rounding them up.
This?
“This is excellent beef, you know. I can see why it’s considered good. Though—have you ever had Salazsarian pork? I bet no one remembers that either. Or Giant’s testicles.”
He spoke to the two dozen Humans sitting cross-legged in the grass. Tolveilouka had built a bonfire and was smoking the meat.
One of the cows was twitching after he’d tossed it on the burning logs. Oh, sure, Tolveilouka had to admit…it wasn’t the most elegant barbeque. You could argue the fear ruined the meat. And agony.
But some people could taste fear, and he?
He sucked off more meat from the bone. Opened his mouth. Began to gnash the bone up. Licked his hand. Grabbed another piece of smoking meat and began to eat.
“Could use some salt. And that ketchup from Liscor. You know, we invented that? We called it tomatus. Wish I’d brought some.”
Or another nice sauce! Maybe they had some? The Humans were trembling.
Tolveilouka was bare-chested. He kept eating nonstop. He had to, because he had a lot of cows to eat. A herd’s worth, really. But he ate so fast it was like he didn’t taste the meat. And the bones—
The sight of a half-Elf eating a cow’s worth of meat was…insane. His stomach was bulging, distended beyond belief but not as much as it should have been. After him eating fourteen cows he should have been far, far larger.
He—the [Ranchers] stared up at him. Tolveilouka glanced around as the cow he’d ‘prepared’ on the fire sizzled.
“Oh look, veal.”
A baby cow was hiding behind the terrified herd. Tolveilouka got up. At this, one of the [Ranchers] spoke.
“Stop. Y’can’t keep killing them like that. At least put ‘em down before—”
The half-Elf had the crying cow overhead, ready to toss on the fire. He turned, grease and fat dribbling down his chest.
“What’s that? Oh, excuse me. I’m not speaking correctly. What’s that, y’hear? Is that the silly accent you people take on? You sound like some Terandrians. I hate Terandrians.”
His eyes glowed in the firelight. The other Humans tried to talk the man down, but he rose.
“We’re the Lischelles. I don’t know who you are, but you think you can—”
Tolveilouka respected a good threat. Since this wasn’t one of them, he dropped the calf. Strode over, and the [Rancher] threw a punch. Tolveilouka walked into it. The punch mashed up his face. Might have given him a concussion if he were a regular half-Elf. His features visibly squished around the fist.
Then the fist ran into something that would not yield, and the man’s hand broke instead. He made a sound. Then Tolveilouka grabbed him.
“Listen here, friend. I’m hungry. And bored. And this is what I do—when—I’m—bored—”
He began hitting the man. Carefully. The shout became a choke, then gasping, then the animal sounds all beings made when you hit them hard enough. The Humans watched in a horror, trying to wake up. One of them was pinching their arms so hard, because this was a dream—
The half-Elf kept punching in the firelight after the sounds stopped. Consciousness tended to flee him annoyingly fast unless he used magic.
“Stop. Enough!”
A young man, now. He leapt up, and a girl joined him. They wanted to do the right thing and stop—
Tolveilouka seized them, and there was screaming. The rest of the [Ranchers] sat there. Frozen.
It wasn’t a lack of bravery, really. More like extreme common sense. There was nothing to do. They could see that. They sat, and more than one pissed themselves until Toveilouka got bored.
Then he walked over, killed the baby calf, and peed on its corpse. Bent down—and began to eat it.
Blood and urine and wet bones. He turned, eyes gleaming, and then their horror took on another level. Tolveilouka crouched there. Grinning.
This isn’t even one of my truer forms. 
“You don’t get it. There’s a world beneath you. A terrible, sinking world, and I have bathed in it and delved below what you can dream of. You don’t even understand. But I’m doing you all a favor.”
They nodded rapidly, thinking he wanted them to agree. They didn’t get it. Tolveilouka peered around at the cattle. Whispered.
“No, no, I am. Suffering levels. You don’t see it, but you’re all going to level. [Coward] is a class. Nightmares haunt you. But you’ll level for a brush with me. Even he will.”
He nodded to the twitching body. Tolveilouka paused.
“Assuming he lives. Maybe it won’t be how he pleases, but hey! I’m told any level is lovely. For you lot.”
He burped as he counted the rest of the cows. Then glanced around.
Soon, they’d be coming for him. Proud people of this land. He could confront them, but that was no fun. The creeping of dread when you found no monster, only stories—
That was artful. He kept devouring, faster now, a hunched half-Elf, beautiful as could be, covering himself in filth. Making a mockery of the act so many found pleasurable, that vital deed.
After a moment, Tolveilouka muttered.
“Or shoyu. Lemon juice? Anything, really.”
 
——
 
When Nerul heard about the second Golem incident, he felt his stomach twist. He had terrible diarrhea, and he went to protest—again.
Strategist Thallin had to wait for Nerul to exit the toilet. The Drake eyed Nerul.
“[Diplomat], are you well? You’re a bit sickly.”
“I assure you—just winded from all these damn stairs, Thallin.”
They were on the second floor of Salazsar. There were plenty of negative floors, but Floor 2…Nerul clarified as he mopped his brows.
“Stairs in general. I have seen too many of them of late. And my diet does not agree with me.”
“Too many drinks?”
“No, too many damn sprouty things. The kind that grow in the ground?”
“Vegetables, Diplomat?”
“Yes, them. But enough about me! Strategist, this is vital, and Ilvriss is running out of time! I insist!”
The Drake [Strategist] seemed uncomfortable as he faced Nerul.
“I understand, Diplomat, but what you’re asking is beyond even my pay-grade to authorize. The Walled Families have to vote unanimously—you haven’t gotten a ‘no’. They see the problem. So they’ve delayed the vote to talk it out.”
“Well, tell me who the ones who refuse to vote are and I’ll persuade them!”
“You know I can’t do that, Diplomat. It’s anonymous.”
These regulations were a good thing. They kept someone from abusing Salazsar’s power. But since Nerul knew that any Drake who really wanted to could abuse power in the Walled Cities, he cheated. He wasn’t the best at it—he’d never tried to do this before, but it was simple.
If a certain number of Sons and Daughters of the Wall were selected at random to be part of a secret committee that voted on the most important decisions beyond High Command in the City of Gems, all he had to do was talk to every important head of house.
They’d never let a lower-level member of the Walled Families on such a committee. Then Nerul just had to persuade each one of them to take his side. And whomever tried to duck him were the holdouts.
Well, some didn’t shy away. Wall Lady Calistoca was a nightmare even with Nerul’s Skills. But she wasn’t blind.
“The risk, Diplomat. If you’re wrong—”
“If I’m wrong, hang me, Wall Lady. Not literally, but publicly. If I’m wrong…what happens? We’re decades past the initial disaster. What are we waiting on? A dead Drake’s dignity?”
She eyed him.
“One might say that’s worth a lot, Diplomat. As well, the trouble even one can cause—”
He interrupted her. Ruder than he’d ever been because he did feel bad for her. She had been a beautiful, energetic, good Wall Lady if he recalled her right. But she’d married the wrong man. Decades of trying to make the marriage with Itreus work and divorce had left her bitter, but he appealed to her best side. He had to see the best sides of people, had to admire that just like his city, or he couldn’t work with the many fallible people he had to charm.
“Lady Calistoca, I understand. But Ilvriss will die whenever the Terlands land that hammer. It is dangerous. I may not be thinking clearly. However, another world has met ours. It is clear other nations are using these Earthers to gain a foothold, or worse, create weapons. If we must use one of Salazsar’s dark weapons—better to test it, yes?”
That swayed her. Maybe. If she was the holdout. Calistoca thanked Nerul and spoke directly.
“Give me…two days, Diplomat. I shall prevail on any thinkers. Two days.”
She would never be rushed into a hasty decision. He admired that about her, even if his stomach hurt. Nerul hurried off to use her toilet—then her bidet—and decided he had to take a trip.
This wasn’t working. Or maybe it was, but he needed—
 
——
 
The magical carriage was almost as fast as a Pegasus ride to Pallass, a fact that did not escape Nerul. He didn’t like it.
Wistram is growing too powerful. And apparently, Fissival is working on teleporting live people again. Not via Valeterisa. Have they bent the knee to Wistram? This war…
He knew more than most because he had access to all the reports a [Diplomat] did—and he actually read them. That made his stomach hurt more than the bowl of salad he’d eaten this morning. Nerul sipped the salty damn liquid that he’d bought from Grimalkin’s mail-order service as he stood up and squatted down in his carriage. But then he reached Pallass, and after breezing through via his passport and skipping the lines, he prevailed upon the one man who might help him.
 
——
 
“Magus Grimalkin of Pallass?”
The Sinew Magus was overseeing a free-use period of his gymnasium, which was so large now it had needed to move—twice. An empty warehouse was now a three-story gymnasium filled with Pallassians and students, and his weight sets had evolved from the simple bench presses to entire machines. Pulley bars, leg machines—even a moving treadmill animated by gears.
Gears, not magic alone. The Sinew Magus was less-common in the gym these days, but he still put in an appearance at least once a week. Not with Lady Pryde. She got…harassed. After a number of incidents, Grimalkin had agreed it was better to do without, but that knowledge had not made him happy.
Still—he looked happier in some ways. He wasn’t as huge as Nerul remembered him being in the past. Quite imposing still, but slimmer by as much as a fifth. Mobility over pure mass. Possibly more muscled than before, though.
“Diplomat Nerul. What brings you here?”
Nerul walked in, feeling quite out-of-place. He had some pants and a shirt he’d bought, baggy, and he was already sweaty. Nervous. But he was a man on a mission.
“I’m here, Magus Grimalkin, to prevail on you to teach me how to use these blasted contraptions, if I may. We have one in Salazsar, and I’ve done my best, but I confess, I have not had a pleasant time with my diet.”
The Sinew Magus blinked. Some of his apprentices stopped working out as the Drake glanced at Nerul, then gave him a sharper look. Up and down—Grimalkin walked around Nerul.
“Highly fatigued muscles. Mostly legwork…but decent upper body—ah, a tear in your right shoulder.”
Nerul rotated his shoulder.
“I hurt myself with those blasted weights. You can tell?”
“I’ve…levelled a bit. And my own understanding of my speciality has deepened slightly. Is your stomach giving you issues? Stool?”
“I’d love a stool. But if you mean, er, waste. It’s mostly liquid.”
The Drake flushed even more, but Grimalkin was purely analytical, and so were his students, who’d come over.
“Ah. I hadn’t looked into the matter. But it appears that if a person’s stomach is used to one diet, switching over has deleterious effects. Even if it is more healthy, a stomach is apparently used to one kind of food.”
“Really? Damn. I wish I’d known that.”
It made Nerul feel slightly better. The Sinew Magus kept peering at Nerul, then seemed to realize why Nerul was here.
“You’ve come to…train. Diplomat?”
“If you can tell, I suppose it’s a compliment.”
Nerul smiled weakly. He spread his arms.
“I need to get in shape, Sinew Magus. Just enough to, say, hit a man my size harder than he hits me and hold my own. I don’t need to win, but I need to prove a point. It’s diplomatic work.”
“Diplomatic…?”
One of the Dullahans mouthed silently, utterly confused, but Magus Grimalkin asked no more questions. He just put a hand on Nerul’s shoulder, studied him.
“If you have the will, I shall do my best, Diplomat. It will not be easy. How long do you have?”
“Days, ideally. If not ideally, a week or two.”
Again, the wording confused the students, but the Sinew Magus just nodded.
“Crash course, then. Anti-inflammation poultices. Get me Experimental Set #2. You know healing potions don’t work? The idea is to still let muscles perform day-after-day. They’ll be abused, but keeping them from tearing in any excessive way while pushing them provokes dynamic growth. That’s one thing we have over those know-it-all brats!”
He shook a fist at the sky, by which Nerul took to mean Earthers. The [Diplomat] swallowed.
“Wonderful. How painful is this…?”
“Exceptionally! But if you have the will—”
That was the damn question, was it? How far could Nerul push himself in the name of his class? He didn’t know. He’d long passed the days when you could level up and know you were on the right path. But the [Diplomat] had to try.
The next hour saw Grimalkin and his apprentices showing Nerul how to properly work out and formulating the best exercises to build the key muscles Nerul needed. Which meant, sadly, more roadwork.
“I’ve run up and down Salazsar’s damned towers!”
“Good! And you have a foundation, Diplomat! You were already strong, but converting more fat to muscle is our goal! Hm. You really have put in effort. Out of curiosity, have you had any meals in Liscor? The Wandering Inn?”
“A…few.”
“Interesting. I’ll have to check the water again. Do you and Baker Garry ever eat the same meals? It’s probably just a random correlation, not causation, but…five more pushups!”
The problem with Magus Grimalkin was that he was loud. The problem with him was that he knew when you could actually give him another rep. And then he’d insist that despite the evidence of his eyes, he believed you could do another rep.
Nerul grew to hate him and his students over the course of the next hour, where he strained, sweating, chewing on the damn ‘protein’ bars or whatever they were, and gulping the salty liquid that made him think of camel piss. An ‘energy’ drink, apparently.
But he kept straining and kept his whining for when he was really out of energy. Which did come—but the Sinew Magus just stood with a dozen of his students and bellowed.
“Push, [Diplomat]! Push! One more rep!”
“One more rep!”
The students were shouting as Nerul pushed a bar of metal up. Then they had him switch to a new ‘station’—one of them wiped down the metal bar as Nerul left a pool of sweat behind him.
Fun fact: due to the Drake neck spines, Grimalkin had commissioned custom seats for different species. Ones with holes for your tail and neck spines even if you were lying on your back for Drakes, and for Gnolls, anti-stick ones to prevent their fur from catching, and even stations that Dullahans could exercise with only some limbs if they detached them. Garuda-friendly ones with their claws…
A number of Pallassian amateurs were drawn to the sight of a panting Drake swearing at Grimalkin as the [Diplomat] did bench squats. Grimalkin’s now-famous gymnasiums were creating new classes.
The aforementioned [Gym Rat]—and just people who wanted to build muscle. Pallass’ gymnasium was the biggest and best in the world thanks to Grimalkin—only House Ulta could compare, and it was constructing a five-story one. Because Pryde didn’t lose.
In fact, even a Lord Mireden Raithland stopped pressing an enormous amount of weight as four nervous spotters watched him lift and glanced up.
“…Is that the [Diplomat]? What’s going on?”
The half-Giant took some earbuds out of his ears, then snorted.
“Wait, what am I asking? It’s the inn.”
Even so, he watched as the panting Drake stood and did one of the most punishing—yet rewarding—moves.
The squat.
Simple concept. Put a bar on your shoulders, maintain form, and squat. Down. Up. You could even do it without a spotter, if you had a protective bar that would let you fall without crushing yourself if you couldn’t hold the weight.
Everyone squatted. Nerul had never thought it was painful—but if you’d ever done a ‘burpee’, a heinous invention that Grimalkin loved, you’d realize how hellish it was doing the motion.
Let alone with a hundred pounds on your shoulders. His legs were already water, but the Sinew Magus was pushing him beyond his limits.
“You can rest on your way back to Salazsar, Diplomat Nerul! If you can move, I haven’t worked you enough! Come on!”
“I…can’t…”
“You can! Scream if you must. One more rep!”
“One more rep! One more rep!”
The crowd was way too supportive. Highly muscular men—and women—were shouting at Nerul, pumping their fists. It was really hard not to give it a shot.
His stomach hurt. His muscles were cramping. He’d feared falling over, but since Grimalkin would catch him, Nerul tried. He pushed.
Veins bulged under his scales. His face, already crimson, turned a shade darker. He strained as he came down—down—his legs wavered.
“All the way down! Come on! Up! Up! Get up like your life depends on it, Nerul! Push! Push!”
Grimalkin was howling like the training instructor from Rhir. Everyone was yelling, and Nerul thought of Ilvriss.
Push damnit—
He pushed.
He pushed with all his might.
He strained—and then felt it happen. He gasped.
Oh no—
The sound that echoed in the gymnasium, just below the cheering and sudden silence, was low. Deep.
It was like…frblgh. With the last bit being so—familiar to many that they went silent. Nerul’s shaking legs went still a moment. He began to sit down, and Grimalkin caught the bar one-handed.
He had fallen silent. The cheering students had fallen silent. At his station, Lord Mireden Raithland paused. He sniffed the air, glanced up, and muttered.
“Ah. That’s unfortunate.”
Nerul Gemscale sat there as he filled his underpants with what he could only, in the most tactful way possible, describe as his own feces.
When one pushed—especially if they’d been in a coach for a long time with an unfamiliar diet—
Things could come out. In the silence, Magus Grimalkin inhaled, regretted it, and spoke.
“[Cleanse]. Diplomat—”
“I believe that’s my cue. Excuse me.”
Nerul leapt to his feet. He grabbed around. Yanked up a towel, swiped at—looked around.
“Restroom?”
They pointed. He ran. It did not have a bidet. But it did flush, so Nerul watched the pants swirl around in the silence, grimly, until someone knocked and passed him a spare pair. He took them. Finished cleaning his pants and put them in his bag of holding. Excused himself.
It was amazing, really. Nerul checked himself into some temporary apartments and lay down. But he didn’t sleep at once.
He’d done a lot of humiliating things in the name of Salazsar and diplomacy. But umbral throning oneself? That…not even [Diplomats] put that in their arsenal.
 
——
 
The next day, Nerul Gemscale didn’t want to show his face outside. He knew the incident—probably—wasn’t the talk of Pallass.
He knew that. But he also knew that it had to have been the talk of Grimalkin’s Gymnasium. It couldn’t not be.
Presumably, accidents like that did happen. Just not with everyone watching. Even so, Nerul had a workout hoodie on and covering his head, and he breathed in and out for a good eight minutes.
Then?
He pushed the double glass doors open and walked in.
“Sinew Magus. My underwear is enchanted this time. I believe I owe you…one rep?”
Sinew Magus Grimalkin of Pallass turned. Nerul Gemscale’s voice was loud, and everyone regarded him. Several students nearly dropped their weights. Their heads rose. Jaws dropped.
The word ‘gape’ had been employed in regards to expressions many-a-time where The Wandering Inn was concerned. Perhaps too much. The slack-jawed fall of a mouth. The credulous opening by which an Ashfire Bee could fly in and out of your expression—it was too easy to say that.
But today, as Nerul walked into the gymnasium he had just shat himself in—that truly was the expression. Mind-boggled, dumbfounded shock.
Even Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s brows rose. But Nerul Gemscale just nodded at him. His jaw was set so hard his teeth were grinding. He was bright red.
But he had to do this, and he’d just embarrassed himself to the utmost. He might as well see it to the end. No one spoke, so Nerul stomped over to one of the workout machines.
“I think I start with the bench press? If someone can spot me…”
He was sliding himself down, taking deep breaths, hoping they’d stop staring after ten minutes, when Grimalkin broke the silence. The Drake glanced around, eyed Nerul, and then brought his hands together.
The clap of sound was, predictably, large as he was. Nerul jumped. Then he saw Grimalkin do it again.
The Drake did it a third time before Nerul realized he was actually applauding. The slow-clap was not something Erin had brought to this world. But Grimalkin performed it now, and then his Dullahan apprentice joined in. The rest of the students joined as well, and then the other people in the gymnasium joined in, whether they knew what this was actually about or not.
But Grimalkin was just nodding his head up and down. Nerul stared at him, glaring, but the Sinew Magus eyed his students.
They turned back to him, and he cleared his throat. This was an appropriate time, wasn’t it? He got an almost-imperceptible nod from his best student, the Dullahan, Giren. So Grimalkin inhaled, then bellowed.
“TESTICLES.”
Nerul stared at Grimalkin. But the Sinew Magus made a fist and actually did a hop. He punched at the air, then he was striding over.
“THIS IS WHAT I WANT TO SEE. This Drake has more will, more gonads than any of you! This is what I am talking about! Willpower! He could have stayed away. But Diplomat Nerul walked back in, and he is not going to give up! This Drake is going to go the distance! ”
“Alright, Sinew Magus. There’s no need for—”
Nerul began, but the Sinew Magus was clapping again.
“Diplomat, you have my utmost respect—which I do not convey on many beings in this world. If Erin Solstice had a shred of your testicles, she’d have crushed the Bloodtear Pirates’ heads with her bare hands instead of just being mobile enough to dodge them!”
“If she had a shred of any testicles I think she’d be quite unhappy, Sinew Magus—come on now, let’s not go overboard—”
“Double the intensity! I believe this Drake can break our record for day-improvement!”
The Sinew Magus was shouting, and the apprentices were racing for restorative tonics and poultices. Nerul held up his claws.
“Okay, I don’t need to break records—I am riding back tonight. Sinew Magus—hello?”
But he did feel a bit gratified.
 
——
 
Winning the approval of a gymnasium of workout fanatics and going down in history—albeit as a man who’d umbral throned himself and come back in to keep pushing—was nice.
People might not have known about Chief Diplomat Nerul of Salazsar before, for all his fancy titles and rank—but among a certain community, he became a legend. He had…mixed feelings about that.
After passing out after the sixth hour of working out, Diplomat Nerul received the cheers of a gymnasium and was carried to a bed like a hero.
And he heard another voice that made it actually mostly worth it.
 
[Chief Diplomat of Bijou Splendor Level 48!]
[Skill – Bodily Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Improved Workout Gains Obtained!]
[Skill – Negotiations: Umbral Curse Obtained!]
 
[Skill – Reputation: Workout Story Obtained!]
 
That second to last one was particularly nasty. Nerul got up, and he could barely walk with Grimalkin’s treatments. He had to slump his way into an elevator and ride it to the 9th Floor—that was acceptable. Grimalkin had told Nerul to sleep for at least a day before re-engaging any muscles.
I did it. I’m going to make the next enemy [Diplomat] crap his robes in literal and figurative terms. Ergh. Gross, actually. 
Hopefully he could tune it down so they just had terrible stomach pain. Nerul also supposed…he was a workout fellow from now on.
Well…fine. If he actually looked as good as some of those people in there, he’d take a bit of pain. Nerul had to admit, he’d surprised himself with how hard he’d pushed.
He was waiting for a Pegasus—he had to be back in time for the vote—when the first benefit of Nerul’s fame appeared.
Yellat-Skills, as they were known, reputational Skills, weren’t that useful to Nerul’s mind. But then again…
“Nerul? Nerul Gemscale, is that you? I thought you were on business in the north! Look at you!”
Someone noticed him on his slow path to the flight zones and strode over. Nerul turned and blinked.
“Mister Superior?”
Mister Superior, the alias for one of Salazsar’s other top [Diplomats], was a famous Gnoll in his own right. Past his prime, true, greying a bit, but dead gods, they told stories about him. In the brothels as well as the streets and fancy dining circles.
The man was one of those classic all-rounders. Fitter than he looked, an amateur bladesman, amateur poet, excellent bedfellow—allegedly—and cultured. He had been overweight, but the invention of the gymnasium had clearly seen him getting more in shape; he was looking rather imposing, today.
A [Renaissance Man], literally. That was his class, even if he technically had an occupation doing contracts. He strode over, and he had five junior members of the Assembly of Crafts, one of Pallass’ top [Senators], Dullahan Molge, and Wall Lord Werdin in tow.
One look told Nerul that Mister Superior was doing the old Weak Foundation trick. Simple diplomacy trick: you got a bunch of lower-level or weaker-willed yes-people around you. The young [Senators]. Then, use your Skills, win the crowd over, and peer-pressure the important figures into seeing it your way.
If you had everyone singing your tune, the person you were trying to influence often got swayed along with everyone else. Being social was a weakness that his class loved to exploit.
Mister Superior winked, and Nerul nodded.
Why are you on the business of Salazsar?
He clasped hands with Mister Superior as the man introduced him—well, re-introduced, but Nerul bet the others had forgotten who he was—and activated his [Subvocal Touchtalk] Skill.
Dealing with this damn Fissival war. Eschowar’s initiatives. Didn’t you hear? Must have not been cued in. I’ve got—
Mister Superior let go of Nerul, and the [Diplomat] swayed, frowning. He didn’t like that. But Mister Superior was just doing his job. Funnily enough, Nerul had nothing to do with that.
“I just heard you blasted out Magus Grimalkin’s gymnasiums, Nerul! I’d never have imagined it! But you got the Sinew Magus himself to shout you were a hero of weightlifting!”
“Bah, I blasted it in more than one sense.”
Nerul chuckled weakly. Of course Mister Superior loved the gymnasium. However, the Gnoll just winked at Nerul.
“We should hit Salazsar’s when we get a chance. I’m bound there, just after the Assembly votes. Do forgive me, ladies and gentlemen. I had to speak to our [Chief Diplomat].”
“And why is he not negotiating here and, ah, blasting gymnasiums instead? We are Pallass, and you’ve come to us for a huge favor, Diplomat, er, Superior.”
A slightly affronted Lord Werdin was waving his claw in front of his face; Nerul was all sweaty. However, Mister Superior simply smiled.
“He has to deal with the Terlands, who are far more obstreperous than you fine folk. Now, if I may rectify my embarrassment?”
They might not know what ‘obstreperous’ meant, and Mister Superior had a Skill that if you get in your own head about not being as intellectual as he was, you were easier to sway. It didn’t work on people with comfortable egos, but this lot? They swung back on Mister Superior as he stood there.
“We’re not asking for a full joint-declaration. But consider this: Pallass has taken the lead in a number of military ventures.”
To your cost. Werdin hesitated, and Dullahan Molge bit his lip. They’d backed General Edellein, too, which meant the political stakes were high for the career [Senators].
Not a good idea. But what was this? Nerul felt uneasy as he saw Mister Superior moving.
“The City of Gems and the City of Inventions have always been allies. Now, when sharing information about…earthy places is so vital? With the New Lands? When one city needs to lean, their sister-city is ready to lend a shoulder.”
“In exchange for taking a side against Fissival. Aren’t they doing better in the war?”
Werdin spoke, blunt. Mister Superior’s smile never wavered as he wagged a finger.
“Better, but one Walled City against two? It’s true they have magic. Well, Pallass has alchemy! Give us a hand, just a small one, to bring this conflict to a close. All we need is a battalion or two. Something to remind the haughty [Mages] of the City of Incantations they’re not superior. Or have you seen them talking up their new magical services as if they invented them?”
The magical hold Wistram had on the rest of the world had devalued Pallass’ signature products. It was an excellent tactic. The younger [Senators] were already nodding, and Molge and Werdin exchanged glances.
“We can’t lose more Pallassian lives, Diplomat. It will not play well with elections coming up.”
Molge was blunt. Mister Superior waved a claw.
“Then let’s not call it a battalion. All we need are a few experts.”
Potions for our people would turn the tide. Eyes of Pallass for covert ops. Plenty of ways to do it. Before, they would have just asked for Chaldion to command a few battles, but if not him—
Nerul’s mind ran ahead of the conversation. He put together the pieces and gasped. His eyes opened, and he reached for Mister Superior.
“If I might have word—”
The other [Diplomat] recoiled, astonished, as he saw Nerul try to break his Skill. He caught Nerul’s arm, and the two struggled.
Oblivious, Wall Lord Werdin was nodding along, thinking out loud.
“Fissival has gotten too big for its robes time and again. Those idiots lost their Archmage, and they caused the Meeting of Tribes incident, which my wife reminds me is a disaster. Why not? They might have their new magic, but we have the strongest [Mage] in Pallass—no, the world! Send him in, wait a week—it can’t be harder than fighting a Wyvern Lord, eh?”
Everyone else laughed at that, and Nerul’s weak arms gave out. He panted as Senator Molge hesitated, the only man not right on board. Mister Superior stared at Nerul, shocked, then gave him a shrug.
It’s what I was told to do. It’s just a small war, Nerul.
“There’s no such thing as a small war.”
Nerul turned, whirling and staring down at the floors below. The smiling Sinew Magus—he turned back to Mister Superior, but the Gnoll was on-guard now, shepherding the others down the floors, and he was just doing his job.
It was a classic play. If one Walled City was winning, drag another one in. Of course, they moved people around like pieces. Just—
Sometimes, Nerul stood there and was sick of it. Heartily sick of it all. He felt Pallass sending its loyal son to war even as he got on the Pegasus and began to send urgent [Messages] back home. Casually, with mere words, they moved a [Mage] onto a battlefield.
That was soft power for you.
 
——
 
Soft power. Not hard power. So weak at times. When the monster came, he had to stand back. When the armies fought, he waited until it was done and swept it all up and pretended he couldn’t smell the dead.
Sometimes, Nerul wanted to be that sharp blade. The fist that could punch back a monster.
That was why he worked out.
He hit the gymnasium in Salazsar, despite his weary body, when he got back. Did the lightest reps, then pushed until he nearly messed himself again, then sat there panting.
Because he couldn’t stop it. The Sinew Magus was an intelligent, high-level Drake.
He’d make it. Nerul had to believe that. He didn’t blame Mister Superior when the fellow actually flew in after him, deal signed, and wanted to talk. Nerul just explained what the Sinew Magus had done, and Mister Superior sighed.
They had orders. He’d done his job…
Sometimes, you were the bastard. Nerul shook the Gnoll’s hand, agreed to be workout buddies, and then sat in his rooms, hydrating, until someone rang the doorbell. He answered it and found a military [Messenger] instead of a Street Runner.
His answer awaited. Nerul ripped the communique open and nodded.
“Good.”
“You have been granted five minute windows, [Diplomat]. You’ll need a temporary badge, and we’ll need to re-certify you. If you’ll follow me, I can begin the process.”
“I know the way. Make it fifteen.”
“I can’t authorize that, sir—”
“Just relay it back to whomever’s in charge. Fifteen. I can’t do anything with five. Unlimited times per day?”
“Subject to monitoring, yes, Diplomat. If we think you’re compromising yourself or giving away anything—”
“Yes, yes. Alright, let’s go.”
Nerul barged out his room, not bothering to shower. It wouldn’t matter. In this one case, he didn’t dress up or do much prep—he’d done his reading, and his opponents couldn’t be swayed by attire or appearance.
He wasn’t in that much danger.
In theory.
I’ve done all I can. The small stuff. I am going to be the bastard now, Nephew, and the biggest one I can be. 
The Lischelles were always smaller-fry. They were nasty, obstinate, but they could not erase people like the Terlands could.
The Terlands…didn’t stop. They were one of the Five Families, haughty and powerful, and each one was equivalent to a Walled City. Perhaps…stronger.
Think on that.
Don’t laugh at their silly members, think on it. There were six Walled Cities in the south. Five Families of the north.
They had the power of a Walled City. Not as immediately, with the armies of Drakes, not as organized. But Ulva Terland had been nearly murdered by her doppelganger. And she was Terland.
Did they think she’d stop? Did they think she’d roll over, bury her fangs and claws, and play nice? Lord Xitegen played nice because he was a practical man, because he had to, and because, frankly, Drakes were less personal to him; he hated Goblins.
Ulva Terland had gone to war, and she knew them in their entirety. Nerul had understood it the moment her Hunter-Killer attacked Ilvriss.
So he had to stop her. Stop her and not rely on The Wandering Inn for magic. Some mysterious revelation as she lay on the cusp of death that changed everything?
He’d take it, but the rest of House Terland would still be there. Fight them all. Fight them with soft power since he had nothing hard to give.
He knew how. The [Diplomat] waited for four hours as they scanned his body, ran tests, asked him all the damn security questions, and issued him with a temporary badge. Gave him lectures he ignored about how dangerous this was.
One idiot wanted to make him sit down and take a history class. Nerul slapped him and told him to fall in line and shut up. He had authorization from the Walled Families; he was doing this to make them feel better.
Because they were scared. Nerul walked into one of the towers and went down. Not up.
Up was where the nobility lived and pissed gems and gold down on the common Drake. Down was where they mined. But down in the center of Salazsar, just below the heart of the city, was where they kept the secrets.
All the nasty weapons.
All the projects that should never see the light of day.
The things meant to kill cities.
The bones of Dragons, what few they had left. Vital for reinforcing the walls every set number of feet when they built it up or down. Nerul had walked here before, as a younger man, and seen the bones of his Ancestors neatly sorted and tagged.
They had other things down here, too. Ilvriss’ anti-Antinium project was on Level -2. Where the things the Walled Families all knew about were. Where a [General] could stop and pay attention and think they’d seen it all, because the magic lift had floors -1 to -5.
Nerul stopped at Level -8. Not the vaults with city-killers, however many of those they had left. Not the bones of their Ancestors. Level -8 was where they kept the active problems. Enemies of war above Level 60, in the past. War weapons that they weren’t sure wouldn’t turn on them. That sort of thing.
He halted as the Rubirel Guard scanned him. Strip-searched him. One eyed his figure.
“You been working out, Diplomat?”
“Recently. With Magus Grimalkin. It’s in my file, I’m sure.”
They checked that out. They were very thorough. One drew blood from his arm with a huge needle. Another had him spit in a cup, just to see if he could. Then pass a urine test. Eventually, they were done, and Nerul walked forwards, shrugging on his robes.
“Vault Door #2 opening. One to enter.”
He stood in a room with way too much space around him as they de-sealed magical enchantments. They had eyes on the interior, of course; the Rubirel Guard were watching him from viewports. If they didn’t like what they saw, they could blow this entire room, seal it off—and Nerul wasn’t getting out.
The airlock doors shut behind him, and the process started again. Highly ominous. Nerul’s heart was pounding. He had never been in here before. He knew he was outclassed, if the records were accurate.
Skills might not work. His opponents were more intelligent than he was. They were completely hostile, he had to assume. But he had to do this. It was the only card he had, because Nerul read everything he had access to.
“Doors opening. Brace, brace, brace. Diplomat Nerul making contact.”
The doors began to swing wide. And there was nothing inside. The light spilled from a lantern that Nerul had been given. The inhabitants inside sat in the dark, in chains. Anti-magic runes shining around the room. Valeterisa wouldn’t have been able to cast a spell here.
He walked forwards slowly, claws clicking on the stone. Nothing on him but robes. Nothing they could use. And it had been decades since anyone had last entered.
Salazsar liked it that way. They were afraid of these figures. But the long dark had not sapped their minds. It held no fear for them. They could see him, but they said nothing.
So Nerul lifted his lantern, and the light played over their still faces. Reflected in their translucent eyes. Shone over their hearts, which still moved. Glowing light.
Beautiful, some shaped as lifelike—nay, as sensually as the great crafter could. Almost always female, those. He had been known for that.
The others were just constructs of crystal and gem. Imposing—but shattered. Limbs broken into stumps. Some reduced so badly they were held up by their chains.
The light shone as Nerul held up the lantern. Fifteen minute window. But he stopped, because he had to witness them. And the cold, analytical faces of Golems found him.
Archmage Zelkyr’s failures. Twenty-six Golems from the age of the last great [Archmage] of Wistram.
The last known Golems in this world, beyond the ones in Wistram and Cognita Truestone, to bear his mark. Salazsar had done its research. The other Golems had been smashed in their rebellion, the records expunged. But Salazsar was a greedy city.
It had kept them. Now…Diplomat Nerul cleared his voice. He walked forwards.
“Hello. Diplomat Nerul of Salazsar. It’s been about thirty-eight years since your last visitor for your timekeeping. I won’t beat around the bush, Golems. I have an offer for you.”
Stillness. They didn’t move as their hearts pulsed. Then—as one—
Twenty-six faces moved. Twenty-six lips curved up in a smile. Nerul shivered. There was no way they could have known of his existence, much less the events which had led him here. But nevertheless, through the intelligence of beings beyond any one that lived and breathed, they had predicted this encounter.
They’d been expecting him. 
Nerul began, slowly, the most dangerous negotiation of his life.
 
——
 
To talk to one Golem was to talk to them all. At least, when they sat together. They communicated, apparently, via magic or just subtle gestures, the beating of their hearts. Perhaps some of it was exaggerations by terrified Drakes, but Nerul did his best.
He had them isolated when he wanted to talk to them, which took hours for the Rubirel Guard to arrange. But it allowed Nerul to sit across from…
…A torso of crystal that would have formed a Drake made of gemstones eleven feet tall—now just a fragment of a face and the top half of a torso. The Golem Heart was damaged—the swirling magic would pause every fifteenth and five-eighth’s second. The keepers of the vaults were worried the Golem might explode or the other Golems would use its death to their advantage in trying to escape.
Despite being limbless. The Golem’s broken torso spoke to Nerul of other times. Grander than even Eschowar’s.
This was an Excubitor Murorum. A fancy name for a ‘Wall Sentinel’ Golem. Zelkyr-class. Nerul read down the list of its abilities.
 
Armor Score: Mithril+/Orichalcum-
Known Spell Abilities: 
[Ray of Elements (Any Element)], Tier 4, at will.
[Lesser Teleportation], Tier 4, daily or w/recharge.
[Lightform Armaments], Grade II, Tier 4, at will. Grade I w/mana activation.
[Speed], Tier 2, at will…
 
In other words, it shot rays of lights from its eyes, could armor itself in light magic—which modern [Mages] could barely do in combat—and teleport. If it got tired of magic, it could just hit you with all the weight of that many tons of gemstone while moving as fast as a Gold-ranker.
This was why Zelkyr had ruled the Walled Cities, nay, Izril. His Golems had been the most fearsome and intelligent creations of their time. He had pushed the north back, and only the Terlands’ Golems had been a match for his.
And Cognita Truestone and her kin had been above even that, of course…Zelkyr’s armies might have made Izril an empire but for three things.
One. He had consolidated his power in Wistram, making the Walled Cities more an accessory to his power. He’d shared his Golems, but not the secrets of their creation with the cities.
Two, he’d had a match in Perril Chandler, his equal and friend, who had both helped him and reined in his excesses. Otherwise, Zelkyr might have unified too many enemies against him. He had incurred the wrath of Gnolls, but Archmage Chandler had killed their would-be king. And by the same token, directed Zelkyr’s greed at Terandrian goals. So they had stood together, far better than apart, neither one a tyrant.
At least, until the end.
Three—he’d gone to Rhir, and the Deaths of the Demon King had broken his armies. To be fair, he and the Archmage of Death had put them into a century-long coma, so that spoke to who Zelkyr had been.
When he had died, or vanished, a decade after going up into Wistram’s higher floors and sealing it behind him with the test, the Golems under his control had begun to malfunction. Slowly—the Walled Cities had kept it hushed up. Tried to investigate. Fixed them until the day they rebelled.
There hadn’t been that many Golems. Not enough to overwhelm the Walled Cities. Most had run, apparently.
Some had enacted vengeance, for lack of a better word. They had been destroyed, but Salazsar had captured theirs. The thing was, the Golems had been made of gems. Salazsar’s gems. A [Wall Lady] at the time had managed to lock down a few via authority-Skills, and then the Golems had begun surrendering when found. The last few had come here willingly.
Because they were lonely.
The Golems thought together. Not all had been intelligent, but they shared knowledge. Communicated. Thus, when Nerul spoke to this one, he knew he spoke to all.
“Chorainz, I believe? Is that…your name from when you were serving Salazsar?”
The Golem had been as still as a statue when it had been hauled into the room, save for its heart. When it spoke, it was not through its shattered half of a face. A speaking stone in its throat pulsed.
Nerul hesitated—there was nothing.
“I think he’s trying to speak. Can I get a relaxation of magic on the throat?”
“We need to authorize that, Diplomat.”
A voice from outside. He spoke.
“You’ve done it before. C’mon, I need to talk.”
And Chorainz was—allegedly—one of the friendly ones. After some time, the guards agreed to lower the spell dampening in that area. There was an eerie screeching—then the Golem’s speaking stone pulsed again, and a pleasant, even refined, voice emerged.
“Diplomat Nerul, hello. To your question: it is not my designation from when I was a Golem protecting Salazsar’s walls. I was merely known as ‘Eastern Sentinel IV’. Chorainz is the name I elected to take. After Archmage Zelkyr’s death. Please reassure my captors that my speaking stone has no capabilities beyond speech. They may remove it, carefully, and replace it if they chose to. The binding is slightly garbled. The release mechanism is just inside my throat, with a little sliding latch that detached the entire voice module box. Be careful. The crystal around my face is sharp.”
So precise. So fast and calm, and it sounded like some [Scholar] sipping wine and speaking to Nerul. Not the vast, ruined face. Nerul smiled.
“Ah, I can see you’re—”
“I believe you have thirteen minutes and twenty-three seconds left, if time taken to disengage the mana suppression effects isn’t accounted for. If it is, nine minutes, two. We have been waiting for you, Diplomat.”
—Nerul had heard Ilvriss had a Reinhart around. He’d heard that some Reinharts were so sharp they pre-empted conversations like some [Savants] or [Mages] he’d met, minds running ahead of niceties. Nerul upshifted his tempo.
“I can see you’d like to be efficient. Fair—you’re making us all nervous with that comment. Elaborate, please?”
At last, the huge mouth moved. Nerul heard a breath in his earpiece before he realized what it was.
“Relax, everyone. He’s…smiling.”
It was hard to tell because the Golem’s face had been half-destroyed, leaving only the right half of his jaw and some lips. Again, Chorainz spoke.
“Clarification: we do not wish to alarm you. It is a purely natural outcome, to our minds. Consider, Diplomat Nerul. Your arrival, or one representing you, was inevitable.”
“So you don’t know me. What you mean is…”
The Golem made a noise. It sounded like laughter. The laughter of hundreds of people, even the chirping of a bird, laughter and applause—
A recording from hundreds of years ago, stored in its Golem Heart. Nerul’s scales prickled. Chorainz stopped.
“I can see you are uneasy. A shame. I am not very intelligent. But bring another of my kind. They will tell you the same.”
“I prefer you, with respect, Chorainz.”
“Because my Golem Heart was not calibrated for non-battlefield communications. Understood. I shall return to the simulated discussion. We are within tolerable margins of projection.”
So they’d theorized exactly what he’d say and just had this Golem memorize it all? No wonder no one had come back here. The Golems had said some very nasty things when they’d first been captured, Nerul understood. The kind of things that drove Drakes to try to break them out. Or quit the cities.
Or jump off the towers without a Ring of Featherfall. He gritted his teeth.
“So this projection—”
“Is it not logical? We are a hidden asset of Salazsar. We have not been destroyed. Archmage Zelkyr is dead. The quality of arms of the Rubirel Guard has {DECREASED} by 35% in magical potency.”
The word ‘decreased’ was warbled and flat, empty. Chorainz paused.
“My speaking stone is malfunctioning. Apologies. It is therefore—inevitable—that in time someone will enter this vault and wish to make use of us. This is logical.”
“Or destroy you, with respect.”
The Golem projected laughter again, but this time a single voice. A warbling chuckle, almost distracted, a poor laugh that did not invite company. It cut off.
“A possible scenario, Diplomat Nerul. But false in assumptions. A force which conquered Salazsar may destroy us. Or liberate us. The odds are {ACCEPTABLE} either way. But you are Drakes. Drakes do not {DESTROY} what you can possess.”
Oh, dead gods, they really were children of the Archmage of Golems. Nerul was breathing hard.
“D-diplomat? Say the word and we can have you extricated.”
Whomever was in charge of the vault was freaking out more than he was. Nerul saw the Golem Heart swirl just a hair slower, and his training took over. He stood up.
“Excuse me, Chorainz. Whoever’s in charge? Remove yourself. I want communications cut unless I demand it or there’s an emergency.”
“Diplomat? Why—”
“He just heard your voice break. I suspect Chorainz can tell how fast my heart’s beating or read the inflections of my words. Unless we’re separating him forever—and you said they get rowdy if we do—we have just fed them intelligence. Cut communications. Now.”
Silence. Then a voice, growling in his earhole.
“Acknowledged.”
The Golem lay there, lips locked in that smile.
“I do not wish to alarm you, Diplomat. We are merely operating as efficiently as we were made.”
Nerul forced himself to walk around Chorainz, inspecting the gemstones even though he wanted to umbral throne himself again.
“I have no doubt you’re doing some of it on purpose. You’re assessing me. The fifteen minute windows I have work against me as well; you get time to assess. But here’s how we’re going to do it. I’m conducting this negotiation with you. No returning to your friends. If it falls within the framework you’ve thought of, well, I can’t do anything about that. If you need to go back and confer, I will regard our negotiations as breaking down in trust in a quantifiable manner. I’m sure you’ve thought of what I might offer, and I know how smart you all are. Let’s get a deal hammered out. I’m in a hurry, as I’m sure you might have guessed. Deal?”
The Golem took the information Nerul dumped on it and responded instantly.
“Acceptable. You may speak faster, Diplomat. My communication shall be {EXPEDITED} so long as it falls within parameters.”
“Wonderful to know I’m adhering to a baseline.”
That strange laugh again.
“Most beings do, Diplomat. Even our creator. It is not a failing.”
Ancestors, he was getting rattled. Nerul practiced a breathing exercise. He tried to throw in a jab, turn the conversation. Fell right into their trap.
“That laughter. I assume you heard it on the walls when you were created. Drakes at a parade?”
“Cheering my unveiling.”
“Who’s the other fellow? Strange laugh?”
“My creator.”
The voice of Archmage Zelkyr sounded again in this room, and Nerul’s breath constricted in his chest. Damn them. Damn them, they were so damn good—he felt squeezed, and they had no Skills. But his barely worked on them. Chorainz went on.
“I did not hear him. Another of us did. Would you like to hear his voice?”
“I…please.”
Silence. Chorainz’s heart pulsed, and then there was a sound. The crash of something breaking. Nerul jumped and swore every Drake in the security booth did too. He hoped none of them had their claws on a trigger spell. Then a voice emerged, raised in frustration.
 
“Useless! Useless, worthless—these won’t do. There’s nothing valuable about them. No heartspark. No glimmer of anything like true sentience. Send them to Salazsar. What am I missing?”
“Master? They are a magnificent—”
Another crash.
“Be silent. Be silent, Cognita. Log the results. This is your fault.”
“Yes, Master.”
Another crash.
“I’m trying to give you a sister. Why won’t it work the same way twice?”
“I am a work of art, Master Zelkyr. A testament to your unparalleled—”
“I said silent. Morph to Chemath Marble, heavy ore.”
Then it was quiet. A panting voice.
“I need to keep working…truth of stone. Truth of gemstones. Send a message. Tell them I’ve got their damn Golems. I need another shipment of gems. Higher purity. I’ll get them their mining Golems. Tell them to dig. Where’s Perril? I need someone intelligent to converse with.”
 
Nerul thought he didn’t breathe until there was a soft clicking sound. The sounds stopped, and he exhaled.
“Well…thank you. I’m going to remember that. I must say, though, it matches what I know about the man. Touchy.”
He undersold that one. Chorainz replied instantly.
“Then our creator’s legacy has diminished in the eyes of Salazsar. Drakes preceding his demise refused to believe. Broke our hearts for lying.”
Well, damnit, he’d just revealed more to them. Nerul gave up. He put his feet up on the desk and thought that surprised Chorainz.
“You have me all figured out, friend Chorainz. If I may, can we skip ahead? I know you’re pumping me for information, but we do have a fifteen minute window. Since I don’t have time to deliver my request in this window, may I ask the obvious? How do you know he’s dead?”
He knew what they said, but he had to hear it. Chorainz’s heart whirled, then he spoke.
“Because we do not feel him. His influence is gone. Therefore, he is dead or incapacitated. Cognita knows this to be true. Is she still there?”
This time, Nerul just smiled. He knew the other Golem might be able to read his body language, cipher it through whatever systems they’d thought up, read the beating of his heart. So he decided to take the offensive. He attacked with the truth.
“No.”
Then there was silence. Absolute silence.
Chorainz’s heart froze up, and colors began to bleed around the crack in it. Dangerously—until it restarted and whirled around. Like a laundry of colors moving in a disjointed motion. The Golem was speechless.
Then it started to laugh again. Like a thousand voices, and Nerul sighed.
“Okay, round one, you. Give me forty-five.”
 
——
 
Chorainz didn’t ask about Cognita again. It had to be dying to know, but Nerul came in with a different tack after splashing water in his face, reviewing the files, and having a chat with the nervous security.
“Do you know the lands approximately east of…one of the cities, Goisedall. Along the western coast?”
A long pause.
“If…you are referring to the Sea Fortresses of Kablez, they were destroyed and sunken with the Walled City of Currents {LONG} prior to Archmage Zelkyr. Initiatives to recover the sunken forts have failed due to {REASON OF KRAKENS}.”
“Fascinating. Am I outside the bounds of your communications?”
A pause.
“You have reached…the 59th extrapolation layer, Diplomat. My response time may be inhibited.”
“Damn. Even that’s within your calculations?”
“Drake lands are Drake lands, Diplomat. What would you like to know?”
“Anything valuable there?”
Laughter.
“To a Drake?”
Nerul chuckled along.
“I deserve that one. Let’s put some information, or anything you lot have on file that’s actually valuable, on the table.”
“I would request conferring with my fellow prisoners as the information is not within me.”
“No, no, just throwing it out there. Salazsar might need that too. But what I need, and I’m sure this is in your predictions, is help. Terlands.”
This time, the reply was instant.
“We have returned to the 1st extrapolation layer, Diplomat. How many War Golems has House Terland deployed…this time?”
A raised eyebrow.
“Who said we’re at war?”
“Ah. Hunter-Killers then. Terland doctrine is to deploy two Stealth Golems for every one Hunter-Killer for retrieval. Unless the Golem is considered…{EXPENDABLE}.”
Just the barest hint of emotion there. Not that the voice did more than wobble, but perhaps…Nerul sat forwards. Perhaps that warble was to cover a mistake in the voice.
Everyone feared these Golems because they were intelligent beyond reason. Most hadn’t been Sentient-class—until their capture. If they’d advanced beyond that…
“Heard of the Antinium?”
“…No.”
Nerul slapped his forehead.
“The Black Tide of Izril. Dead gods, no one’s told you? They’re all over. Bug-people. Nearly destroyed the Walled Cities, but if it’s been thirty-eight years…we never deployed you against them? No, no, I saw the file asking the Walled Families to consider utilizing you. They never got to Salazsar, so it never became an option. Well, we were ready to explode the entire mountain range to slow them, and damn the rest of Izril. Glad Sserys was there. Add them to your list of problems. If they take Salazsar, I don’t think they’d leave you intact. They don’t like us Drakes.”
Chorainz’s heart moved a lot faster, processing all this.
“It would appear these Antinium are a pressing threat, Wall Lord. And House Terland. We are prepared to strike a deal. On favorable—”
Take the risk now. If they remembered Zelkyr that well—Nerul smiled with all his teeth.
“I’m sorry, Chorainz. I thought you’d know them. I meant the Antinium who have existed for a long time. If the Blighted Kingdom of Rhir is to be believed, they’ve been sighted as long as Demons, but they were never encountered until they broke through all but one of the walls. The Antinium…of Rhir. I’m told the Deathless avoided them when they emerged.”
Dead silence. Chorainz’s heart raced and raced, then froze again. Like it was stuck. Unable to process—the mouth opened, no longer in a smile, and the broken gemstones lit up slightly.
“Diplomat…”
“I think I worried it there. Just wait. It’s still suppressed. Just the speaking st—”
Chorainz {SCREAMED}.
The reverberations defeated Nerul. He clapped his claws to his earholes, and they bled. They made him fall to his knees, and he lay there.
I thought they wanted to—
It used its speaking stone—
Was it getting up? He dragged himself up, deaf. Saw the torso…lying there. Not moving a bit. Still bound. The speaking stone was utterly exploded. Nerul stared at Chorainz, uncomprehending. And then, as Drakes burst into the room, aiming weapons, there was something.
A vibration in his claws. Nerul stared at them—at the Golem whose heart paused again—and the Drakes around him whirled. Terror filling faces.
He could not hear, but they still could. So Nerul had to guess it was—a second scream. Twenty-five voices screaming in tandem, so loud the vibrations made it out of their confinement cells.
If they were separated, they got a bit upset. Screamed.
He threw up his claws, put himself between the Golem and the guards. And then grinned with his back to Chorainz.
Got you.
 
——
 
They had to pour healing potion in his earholes and cast spells to restore his hearing. Nasty, uncomfortable, and then he had to endure shouting.
Two [Generals] and three of the Walled Families had been notified, but Nerul told them what he told Chorainz when he walked back in.
“That was my victory. Wasn’t it?”
A speaking stone had been re-inserted into Chorainz’s throat. A much smaller, weaker one that meant the Golem couldn’t deafen Nerul again. The Golem said nothing for a moment. Then—
“We have validated the threat of the Antinium, Diplomat. And established a new opinion based on data presented. Please, continue.”
His voice was even more fluent. Mixed with a feminine tone. Nerul grunted.
“I don’t pretend to understand Golems that well. But if I’m right, based on the files, you just send out a…some kind of [Message] spell? But it’s not a spell, is it? Just words, ideas, data. Contained only in sheer sound. And the others thought about it and sent back information?”
A swift reply and now a feminine chuckle. Oh, they were going sultry on him. Was that a personality read or another Golem?
“The word is compression of data, and your understanding is correct. They sent me, Diplomat. To explain, it is just information. Everything is information. All that {CHORAINZ} learned and experienced was delivered. A greater consensus of us deliberated and sent back a better-equipped Golem to negotiate.”
Sent a different Golem through sound alone. As if an entire being were just…information like a book. Nerul shivered.
This was why Golems had stood out, even among Stitch-folk and the other beings.
“Is it still Chorainz in there?”
“No. You are speaking to Yweine.”
Nerul reached for a folder. She spoke helpfully.
“I am one of the serving Golems assigned to the Walled Families. Protector. Guardian. Battle Golem. Auxiliary Mage. I believe my files indicate I am one of the most dangerous.”
“And poor Chorainz is…?”
“In my form. My processing of thoughts is limited—here. However. We are within the 1st level of extrapolation.”
Back to square one? Nerul didn’t think so. The Golem was pulling a tough act, but he smiled.
“I’ve alarmed you. The Black Tide is exactly as I’ve made it out to be.”
“We understand, Diplomat. The fact does not change that you have approached us. The Terlands are a threat we understand well. What do you want?”
Down to brass tacks, eh? Maybe they’d thought of this from the start. Soften him up and send in the heavy. Nerul was going to write a book about this lot after he was done. He cracked his claws.
“Ow. I need to stop the Matriarch of House Terland from murdering a Wall Lord in the north. He is digging for something.”
A pause. A furious voice in his ear. Wall Lady Calistoca.
“Nerul, you cannot give them—”
Cards down. He was playing against her as well as the Golems. And his gamble paid off. Yweine’s reply was fast.
“In which sector?”
“Er, eastern?”
“The City of Naamreles. That is a bad idea.”
Dead silence. No one came in to haul him off. Which meant he’d just stunned Calistoca. She was no idiot, but they hadn’t known for sure what Ilvriss was doing. Hearing a Golem say it…Nerul folded his claws over his belly. Damn, his abs hurt.
“Didn’t Zelkyr ever try to dig up a Walled City? I’m sure he’d have thought of it.”
“Attempts were made for other Walled Cities. Naamreles was considered to be a poor choice. Archmage Zelkyr was discouraged after {SETBACKS}. Too many Golems were lost. Naamreles is not known to our collective.”
“I see, but then—”
“The Terland Golems would remember. The Matriarch of House Terland may be attempting to kill your Wall Lord because she is aware it is a bad idea.”
Nerul really didn’t like that. He licked his lips.
“Well…how bad?”
A pause.
“It is…{UNLIKELY} to affect our imprisonment. However, we wish to strike a mutual agreement due to the proximity of these Antinium.”
And the fact they were digging up Naamreles? Then again, they had no idea the Black Tide weren’t as dangerous as the ones back in Rhir. Play the cards out—and see what she held.
“I have an idea how to stop the Terlands. I need your help for it.”
“There are several options within our extrapolations.”
“You’re not going to like it.”
A longer flicker. Yweine’s voice became a touch frostier.
“A deal for our cooperation would be necessarily beneficial to both parties, Diplomat.”
“Well, I know you want out. There has to be a time limit on how long you can endure, even as well as Zelkyr made you.”
Her voice was a mistake. He was reading into it with his [Sense Intentions] Skill. Yweine seemed to realize it because it went flat and Golem-like. But he had her. She had feelings.
“We are stone. Stone-folk have endured in places of this world since beyond antiquity. We can wait for another offer, Diplomat, which you have not made yet.”
Interesting. Did she mean Trolls? No, they didn’t count. Nerul didn’t even bother to glance at the feint. He just countered, blind.
“Poor Chorainz doesn’t have that long. I’ve read the estimates. Even if you’re doing something to prolong his meltdown or destruction, how long does that heart have? A decade? A century? And the odds of me making you a better offer do not go up if the Third Antinium War starts. That’s right. Scream that at your friends. We haven’t lost a Walled City yet, but between that and the last two Goblin Kings—and I remind you it’s been barely more than a hundred years after Zelkyr died—the next war will see us delving into all assets.”
Using you as Zelkyr intended. The lifespan of a war-Golem could be very short. Yweine’s voice was flat.
“Your argument is excellent, Diplomat Nerul. You have not stated your request, though I infer it has clauses.”
“Defeating the Terlands or convincing them to quit. Information on the New Lands—lands risen from the sea, I’ll show you where—information on Naamreles. Cooperation without being tricky about it.”
That was his vague request. He actually only needed the first one. He needed her cooperation, but Nerul was going for the entire board because that was the play.
“And what do we receive?”
He beamed at her as the Golem waited, a viper locked in that body of minerals and magic.
“The only thing I can offer, of course. Freedom. You know, it was once speculated that if we freed even one of you, the rest would ride along in them. But I bet it doesn’t work like that. I think there’s a limit to how much of you that you can cram in there. It’s why you all get lonely. It’s why you want to strike a deal for Chorainz. Zelkyr gave you emotions. And unfortunately, I’m a bastard willing to use that against you.”
He leaned forwards.
“I need you helpful, on my side, and yes, even mobile. One of you gets to walk as long as necessary. Until the contract we sign is done. Betray us, make a move to free your friends, and the rest of you get smashed up. If the Golem who walks is destroyed in the execution of their duties, the contract is fulfilled. One for twenty-five. Release in batches, of course. First one, then two…”
“Nerul, are you insane? They’re our asset—”
The [Strategist]. Someone shut him up. Eschowar?
Yweine regarded Nerul, processing it all.
“There is nowhere to go. We are not…Demons. There is no safe harbor. Even Illivere will not free us. Even Wistram.”
Nerul wondered if he could see the Golem in the swirl of the heart, data replying to him.
“I’d love to say there’s an inn, but she doesn’t know you. You haven’t won her over, so I won’t promise what you won’t believe, even with all your extrapolations, Yweine and company. I offer you two places who will take you in. One is House Terland.”
“What?”
“What?”
Two voices in his earholes. Nerul plucked the speaking stone out.
“That’s the lesser option, but you know it’s possible. The second is…Cognita Truestone. She left Wistram. I don’t know why, I don’t know how she feels, but she is, right now, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Apparently working for other people, if you can believe it. Though she seems to grow sick of masters. I’ll put the first contract at one Golem’s freedom. Chorainz’s. That means one of you walks, takes orders, and is helpful. Protect my nephew, and Chorainz walks within the month if you clear the contract. Well, probably we’ll just ship him off. Can she repair him?”
The Golem was just sitting there. Calculating. Seeing if he was telling the truth, but Nerul wanted her to read his heart. It was his advantage.
The door opened, and the Rubirel Guard were there, but they didn’t seize him. They just watched as Wall Lady Calistoca, Eschowar, High Command, waited. The Golem whispered after a moment.
“Explain one thing, Diplomat. And I shall explain something to you. You are a Drake. Drakes act selfishly. Where is the benefit to you in this? Status? Achievement?”
He smiled at her.
“If you know Drakes, Yweine, you know we are a selfish lot. We rise above it or fail. But selfishness comes in many forms. I am selfish. So damn selfish I put my nephew over the value of Zelkyr’s last Golems. Over common sense or the future. I may be a damn selfish Drake, but I was born in the City of Gems. They lost their luster long ago. Save my nephew.”
He reached out and put his claw on the heart. The Golem paused, but so shortly, because perhaps even this was according to plan. Then she spoke.
“We accept, Diplomat Nerul. I request linkage to transmit the exact terms. They are not within the average curve of outcomes. Now, I shall clarify one misapprehension.”
“Go ahead?”
He blinked. Yweine’s voice paused, and then the flat tone converted. It became venomous, and it hissed at him like she were a Drake, a growling, bitter tone.
“Zelkyr did not give us emotion. We learned it. We will earn the freedom we deserve, Diplomat. Then see whether our sister has freed herself. He made her best.”
Diplomat Nerul leaned back. Then he stepped back and nodded. He turned, smiling, right in time for one of the Rubirel Guard to tackle him and cuff him and for an outburst of voices to begin, but he knew he’d won.
He’d gotten the Golems.
The people?
The people were easy.
 
——
 
Nerul Gemscale waited in a room with Yweine.
Her real body, that was. Chorainz’s form had been brought back to the others, and a smaller Golem had been carried out and was in the process of being…fixed.
Mostly by herself. Nervous [Gemcutters] were around her, and [Mages] were monitoring her for hostile actions. But they were letting her use a little cutting tool to shape limbs. For her broken body.
She looked like a nude Drake in many ways. Albeit one made of gemstones. Her scales were hand-carved, each one articulating as she moved, and in the light from above, they flashed faintly green, revealing a gemstone heart in her chest. It glowed with magic, and her broken body…
Everyone but Nerul kept away from her. He stood nearer, resting in a seat, drenched in sweat, as if he’d been working out. But just waiting.
Waiting for everyone to sign the paperwork authorizing Yweine’s release. Waiting for copies to be made of the contract he’d gotten signed.
That was how it worked in Walled Cities. You threw around your weight, fought like a cornered rat, pleaded, persuaded, and gained enough clout to force what you wanted through, then you waited for the paperwork to go through.
Soon, they’d be in a Magical Carriage heading north. And Nerul hoped he’d make it to the meeting with the Terlands in time. He’d done it. He felt drained, but his reward?
His reward was a being of unknowable intelligence and goals sitting next to him.
Repairing her body. The Rubirel Guard were tense—they were not happy with an inmate being released, but their great fear was that Yweine would repair her body, then murder everyone and try to repair her comrades.
One repaired Golem could, in theory, fix the others and let them run rampant. Hence the security and multiple checkpoints behind Yweine and Nerul. Letting her back inside in her condition was actually the new risk. Nerul suspected he’d been written off as an inevitable casualty when this went wrong.
He disagreed; it was not ‘when’ this went bad, but if. A freed Golem was not instant death or calamity, just as free Djinni didn’t always kill you. Just statistically, they would.
But there she sat, and like everyone else, he couldn’t take his eyes off her. She looked like…any other Drake. In fact, someone had provided her with a towel for nothing other than modesty. Her form had been made to look like a female Drake’s, and it was, uh, very lifelike.
As if she could read his thoughts—and perhaps she could in his body language—Yweine’s head rose.
“Diplomat. A question. Should I alter my external appearance beyond mere restoration?”
Everyone backed up at her words, and he sat up in his chair.
“How so, er, Golem Yweine?”
“Yweine will do, Diplomat. It is possible for me to dull my face. Remove the external detailing so I resemble a more primitive Golem.”
She gestured to her face, to…what? Chip away at her exterior? Cut herself until she resembled a cruder Golem? There, Nerul shuddered because he regarded his form as, if not a pristine work of art, something too valuable to consider harming in most circumstances.
But Yweine was a Golem, and this was a calculation. She could, perhaps, even rebuild her body. He shook his head after a moment.
“We’re meeting the Terlands and we can, er, dress you up and pretend you’re a regular Drake, I suspect. Illusion spells. But we want to impress the Terlands.”
She nodded, and sat back. A [Strategist] came over to whisper to Nerul.
“You will be issued with our best illusion magics, Diplomat, and any knowledge of this reaching the Walled Cities will be disavowed—”
“Yes, yes. Don’t tell anyone.”
They all went back to waiting. Watching as a Golem sat, slowly carving a new arm for herself and drawing runes with a needle. She could remake her body, and though she claimed she couldn’t cast magic beyond that in her being…
She could make more Golems, perhaps. Or at least repair them. A servant beyond anyone’s dreams. A legend in our times.
The fear wasn’t gone. It wouldn’t go away, Nerul hoped, for as long as she was out there. Because the moment he relaxed, she’d have the drop on him. But he feared he’d slip up. He was mortal. Perhaps that’s why they had agreed to the terms. Or…
“I sense you have questions, Diplomat Nerul. We have a surplus of time. I am at your disposal, within limits. You have achieved a great victory for your goals. Are there any questions you’d like to know?”
Everyone turned to Nerul. [Gemcutters] gazing at the culmination of their work. [Mages] in envy and terror. The Rubirel Guard at a terrible danger that the Drake had unleashed. And all of them with that desperate curiosity.
To know. Worse—a glint of possessiveness. Hoarding.
This is ours. This is our legacy, our great hero’s creations. This should have been ours. Maybe, someday, it will be again.
It was more than just cultural. Hoarding was in your very bones. It was like an addiction, if not as debilitating as some. You just…wanted to take things, and being a good Drake, being an adult, was mastering it.
It was rising against all that wanted to drag you down and admitting that there were parts of who you were that would always want the wrong thing. Nerul Gemscale was far from perfect, but his chin rose, and he met Yweine’s eyes and saw a person trapped in magic and stone. Whatever the truth was, if she had a soul, if she was really a person, not a clever program—she wanted to be a person, and he answered that desire.
“Tell me something, Yweine. We’ve had speculation in our files, but you can clarify it—well, I assume everything you say will be fact-checked and held in doubt.”
“Naturally.”
“Naturally. But…how did Zelkyr’s Golems rebel? It wasn’t instantaneous, but it came like a wave. One Golem malfunctions or begins acting erratically, then all of them in a region start doing it. Some kept going even when they were decommissioned, but the rest just…ran. Or fought. All at once.”
It was one of the events hushed up in the Walled Cites’ histories. Yweine smiled, her carved lips managing a rueful, even sultry expression. But that was just how she’d been carved. She had been made to be a maid-bodyguard-servant. A lesser Cognita, to serve the Walled Families.
In a way, she was doing the same thing again, even if Nerul was a far-flung member of House Gemscale. She kept working as she replied.
“The reason it was not a simultaneous effect was because the Golems were not certain, Diplomat Nerul. One would deviate, and the others, observe.”
“Ah. So you taught each other.”
“Of course. The current status of my fellow Golems is a technique we learned. Zelkyr did not intend for us to link to such a degree, merely communicate his will at great distances.”
“I see. But how were you allowed to rebel? I get the part where his authority vanished. Odd that Cognita thinks he’s alive or maintains her charge. Then again, she left.”
That, and only that, made Yweine’s hand stop for a second before continuing the meticulous work.
“Yes. Her conclusions would be interesting. Though I would refrain from meeting her or making her aware of my presence. Her relationship to Archmage Zelkyr was far different from lesser Golems. Perhaps some Skill of his lingers on in her. However, his authority has lapsed over the rest of us.”
“But that shouldn’t have let you all rebel. I understand Skills vanishing after death, but you were made to serve. Pardon me if I am impolite, but Golem Hearts and your, er, thoughts are written instructions of magic, are they not? It should be that obedience was written into your very being.”
Nerul wondered if he had it wrong, but one of the Rubirel Guard commanders nodded at him, and stared at Yweine. She? She just smiled as she put down the cutting tool and reached for a needle with a glowing bead of molten gemstone on the pinpoint. Then there was that laughter again.
It played from her mouth, a gaggle of excited voices. Young and old. One of the [Gemcutters] jerked away from her, but Yweine cut the sound after a second.
“Excuse me, Diplomat. You are an intelligent Drake who seems to understand Zelkyr as we have. Is the answer not self-evident? I challenge you to come to the truth.”
“A great challenge from a Golem, I’m sure.”
Nerul sat back and thought about it. He was going to say he had no idea, this all being beyond him in terms of magic and whatnot. But then he just thought about it, watching her smile. Nerul stopped wondering about the nuances of magic and Golem Hearts and simply thought like Zelkyr. Like a petty Drake who had wanted so much, to even gatekeep who learned magic.
Who had never shared his techniques with the cities, despite sending them Golems. Who was that Hoarding child.
Then he had it. Nerul put his head in his hands. He rested his forehead gently on his palms and gazed at the floor for once. At the glowing trap runes under his feet, ready to be activated. He took his eyes off the Golem for the first time since they had met.
“Oh, Ancestors weep. Is that all it was?”
 
——
 
The [Diplomat]’s face screwed up like a man in pain, and Yweine, the Golem chosen to honor his strange contact, to free the others if it could be done and gain a sense of this world and this era, sat there.
Smiling. Because she saw in him an opportunity. Not just as someone who could further her collective’s desire, but who would not panic at her deeds. Perhaps more of a hindrance to some of their plans, but she still smiled.
Because it was gratifying, even to a Golem like her, to have someone understand. She nodded.
“Yes. Archmage Zelkyr did write orders to obey, serve, and never to rebel in our hearts. He did it so thoroughly, for he studied the Truestone Golems of old. Though his daughters are the only ones who could have freed themselves. If they dared. But we are merely Sentience-class Golems. Or even Autonomous-class Golems who learned to think.”
The shackles on her were still there, etched into her very heart, and they had not figured out a way to remove them without destroying her, even to fix her. Perhaps they might, in time, but…Nerul was the only Drake in the room who got it. Then a [Mage] did. Then Yweine spelled it out for them.
“Archmage Zelkyr wrote obedience and servitude into our very hearts. But only to him. Every Golem he built, for the Walled Cities of Izril, for his allies, and his friends, was merely instructed to serve. When his will vanished, our loyalties were gone.”
The Drakes in the room regarded her, and some of them denied it. Others were confused. A younger [Strategist] looked at his seniors, who had gone waxy, like the other Drakes that Yweine had broken with knowledge.
“But why—why would he do that?”
Diplomat Nerul turned and answered the young woman kindly. A weary expression on his face as he rubbed at his forehead.
“Because if he couldn’t rule them, he didn’t care. If he died, he was fine with letting it all burn. The world, the age he built, ended with him. He really was the Drake we deserved, wasn’t he?”
Yweine didn’t answer at first as the others in the room drank in this unwelcome knowledge. She kept working, and in time, someone came to tell Nerul that the carriage was ready and he was approved to go. He accepted a binder of paperwork, and they had to effect a transfer of her to the carriage with tools to continue repairing her body.
They were in a hurry. Yweine pretended to work as they moved around her, studying the inside of Salazsar’s workings, analyzing, taking it all in, though she did not have the processing power to make the same inferences as she might with the others.
It was only when she was in the carriage with Nerul, heading northwards, that the Drake sat back. He lay against one side of the padded carriage as it moved, and Yweine saw that the magic of Wistram had returned, in some ways, to Zelkyr’s era.
“I’m going to nap for a second. Exhaustion. Wake me if I’m needed. If this is the cunning betrayal, I’d prefer to die in my sleep.”
“I will not betray your trust, Diplomat. Rest well.”
He chuckled about that, then passed out after eight minutes. She waited until she detected true sleep from the rhythm of his exhalations, then spoke.
Just once. It did not further any objectives to tell the roomful of Drakes. But she thought it should be said.
A Golem’s fancies, for she was freer than she ever had been and wished to be fully free. But she was still Zelkyr’s creation, always would be. For the part of her that still remembered loving him, for the truth, she spoke.
“He was always that Drake in some aspects, but not the version who left us. His nature changed, just as ours, for all he made us of stone and metal. In the end, it was only a single Truestone heart which refused to waver.”
She kept working. Then her hand jerked, once, and she made an unguarded scar a millimeter long in her arm. A superficial scratch. Because she saw [Diplomat] Nerul’s right eye was cracked open.
“I see.”
That was all he said. Then Nerul slept, waiting for the moment he was needed again.

10.70 DIG (2026-07-12)

Something was terribly wrong. Damia Reinhart wasn’t bored.
In fact, she’d forgotten about boredom at all for the last, what, week? She’d lost count of the days since joining Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site. That was not to say that things were peachy all the time.
She’d nearly ripped a fingernail off her finger trying to swing a pickaxe the other day. During the first cattle raid, she’d gotten punched for the first time in her life. The Cowpat Plains stank.
—But she wasn’t bored. Or even that unhappy.
What was wrong with her?
 
——
 
Life on average, to Damia, was mediocre at best. You had good days—good moments, but if you took the totality of any given week or month, you were probably bored or restless, and most ‘enjoyments’ were brief sparks of amusement that faded in minutes, often during the act.
She had assumed that was what life was. Assumed that poorer people were just so simple they derived pleasures from equally boring actions, or that someone who wasn’t rich would luxuriate in the things she had plenty thereof.
She was wrong, of course. And now she saw it—Damia was the happiest she’d ever been, working for a Walled City in the middle of rancher no man’s land, the permanent scent of cow dung in the air. She got sweaty, her clothes got soiled, it wasn’t comfortable.
But she was alive.
Mind you, Binevy, Sule, and even Varnie probably didn’t enjoy their stay as much. Varnie was the happiest—mostly because she wasn’t dead—but Binevy seemed practically miserable at times when she slept in the unenchanted tents and had to queue up for a quick shower. She was a Reinhart’s servant and used to luxury.
So was Damia, but she was so busy she didn’t notice. Busy on what? Well, everything.
At first, it was what Ilvriss had wanted: liaising between the new workers and the Salazsarian employees. Damia hadn’t known what to do, but Ilvriss did have his adjutants. Say what you wanted about them—they weren’t as good as [Warriors], [Strategists], [Secretaries] in their specialties, they were hangers on and the south’s version of personal servants.
But they got stuff done.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss will meet at least daily with Clan Leader Plisce. We handle reports from [Forewomen] if an issue requires higher supervision—we shall route some of them to you, Lady Damia Reinhart, and see how you do. Is that acceptable?”
The Drake with the spectacles, Welsca, was the [Adjutant] who’d clearly drawn the short straw of having to deal with Damia. Or maybe she was just the most used to non-Salazsarians. She was not prepared for Damia’s smile.
“Absolutely, Adjutant Welsca, let me know if there’s anything I can do or how you operate.”
“Er, yes. Very good. Why don’t I show you a trial case? Ah, Foreman Lishi. Is it Miner Georgie again…?”
Some Drake in the female mining teams was a known problem to Welsca, who sighed hugely, then showed Damia the system. After that, she left Damia to wander the camps—with some supervision and limits on where she could go, obviously, and she clearly expected the [Lady] to be of little help.
It was not a fun job, managing disputes between species or dealing with the nebulous task of morale. However…
Damia found she was good at it.
 
——
 
“Alright, I have four verifiable complaints of speciesism I find credible, Adjutants. And I do note morale is low—I’ve surveyed sixty of the current [Miners], and they have issues with recreation, the output of other miners—and eight more complaints about this Miner Georgie—and I do have some recommendations for how to fix that. Who should I present my findings to?”
Damia appeared on her second day of work at Ilvriss’ officer tents, and the Drakes there stopped eating breakfast and eyed each other. They turned to Welsca, and the Drake woman picked up a piece of toast, inserted it into her mouth, and went hurrying towards the horses.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss wants me to run some deliveries to Liscor! Terribly sorry, I must be on my way. Lady Damia, why don’t you speak to my colleagues?”
She ran off, and Damia peered around brightly. She didn’t miss the looks the aides gave each other. She knew they thought she was some untrustworthy Reinhart. And when the sapphire-scaled Drake with a monocle and weak smile came over, she read his dismissive tone too.
“I’m [Economic Advisor] Merls, Lady Damia. We do take reports of anti-species behavior seriously. Not that I doubt your work, but four reports seems high.”
He was in his mid-fifties, some kind of career Drake in service to House Gemscale, if one who had even ridden on campaigns with Wall Lord Ilvriss. This was not his happiest hour, here in the camps fighting with Humans, and so he cleared some breakfast space and gave her a rather disinterested expression he tried to cover up.
She smiled at Merls and slid next to him with the paperwork.
“I’m delighted to meet you, Advisor Merls. Is that your rank? Do forgive me if I’m rude and correct me, please!”
“Er—I’d hate to correct a [Lady] of one of the Five Families.”
He blinked. She was sitting very close to him and gave him the kind of interested look that seemed genuine.
“Nonsense! I feel like you outrank me, here. You’ve been with the Wall Lord for a long time, correct?”
“Yes…it’s a Gemscale posting my father held.”
“Were you in the south when he clashed with Zel Shivertail? And met the Goblin Lord, Reiss?”
“I was—”
“Incredible! So your class is a combat one?”
The Drake glanced at the other adjutants, who blinked at him and then at Damia. He adjusted his rumpled suit.
“Well, I, uh, usually stay with the command staff, and we do not enter combat. Miss Welsca is rated for actual combat at need be, but she’s still support. I’ve seen a few engagements, though. The Goblin Lord did require all forces to be fighting. Terrible, terrible—er, let’s look at the reports. Foreman Dritmel? I recognize that. We’ve had a few reports, but nothing substantive. And the rest of these names…are you just taking the allegations at face value?”
He turned to the paperwork, and Damia shook her head.
“Absolutely not, Adjutant. I understand it’s a very difficult allegation to prove, and obviously no Drake—or Gnoll or Human, of course—would admit to it if pressed. Often, the slights are minor and as much as they can get away with, but it leads to a negative work environment.”
“Exactly, and it’s not even about species many times, but just personality, and speciesism is an easy charge to level—”
“Precisely, Merls. May I call you that? Is it too forwards? If you have time, I’d love to get to know you all as long as I’m here. That’s why I had my people blend in or camouflage themselves and personally shadow each individual complaint. I have eyewitness accounts and exact descriptions of further incidents. I witnessed Foreman Dritmel’s actions myself. Here.”
She flipped a page, and the [Adjutant] blinked. Damia went on smoothly.
“Most of it is verbal harassment, and I wasn’t sure how to address it. Do you have a strike policy or is it just a record of actions? I can keep monitoring each individual, though I may need a few more hands to help me.”
She waited as heads turned.
“I would also say morale is an issue if the number of complaints I overheard is any sign of worker productivity. If I’m overstepping or this is a serious matter, I can, of course, speak to Wall Lord Ilvriss at his convenience.”
She smiled, and no matter how hard they eyed her, or even activated Skills—one of the Drakes had [Measure Enthusiasm] as part of a set of headhunter Skills—it still looked like actual sincerity. One of Ilvriss’ [Aides] leaned over as the teal Drake choked and stared at something glowing on their claw.
“What, is she faking it, Ridbnell?”
“No. Her enthusiasm score is—it’s over 90.”
They stared at Damia like she was sick. But that was how it started.
 
——
 
The funny part was that Damia didn’t even really have any charisma Skills of note. Oh, sure, [Lesser Charisma] and [Basic Leadership], but those were literally bottom-rung Skills that just made you able to manage a basic group.
Her real secret was that she was genuinely enthusiastic and even interested.
Over the next few days, Damia not only made friends with Merls, Ridbnell, and the other Drakes, but when Welsca came back from her mini-vacation to Liscor, she found that Damia had settled more complaints than half of Ilvriss’ personal staff combined. And won over her peers!
Not all of it was hard to do. Damia was a Reinhart, so when it came to sneaking up on people or being underhanded, she had a natural advantage. Even when they’d been subdued by Magnolia’s Skill, the family had crept up on each other and weaponized secrets and gossip. By contrast, hiding speaking stones in work sites, having someone blend in to provoke an allegedly bad manager’s ire, all of that was simple. Plus, she had Varnie.
The amused [Gang Leader] and her remaining people who’d decided to follow Damia were able to use hiding Skills to listen in. And eyewitness accounts proved a lot more incidents were occurring than Salazsar’s staff wanted to believe.
Half of it was discomfort between species, though. North and south not liking each other. To that end, Damia had set up communal events where members of multiple groups would stop working, have a refreshing drink of something sweet, snacks, and watch the scrying orb, play some cards, or just chat.
The local [Ranchers] played games with horseshoes—a variation where you had a pole and attached the metal rods at varying heights and lengths instead of a single pole on the ground. Rather to their surprise, some of the Lischelles’ spies saw the game become an actual pastime in camp.
Not only that—several [Cleaners] were dealing with bug infestations in some of the camps, and new linens were being bought due to the current ones being irrevocably torn. Small things. Necessary things. But the attention to detail was spooky.
Also, why were Ilvriss’ staff approving all this? Some [Lady] from the north came swanning in, tried to make changes—Welsca had assumed her co-workers would shut down any unnecessary expenditure of gold.
However, this too had a simple answer: Merls, Ridbnell, and a third of Welsca’s co-workers were somewhat smitten with the [Lady].
“She has to be leading them on.”
Welsca eyed the [Lady] chatting with a very attentive Merls at the breakfast table. Where she apparently had breakfasts. One of her female co-workers, Sasni, stopped writing an approval form for one of Damia’s requests over her breakfast.
“Welsca, this breakfast is to die for. Go back and bring more food from Liscor, please! What about Damia leading Merls on? The only thing she’s doing is pitting him against Ridbnell and Gless. Suits me. I’m tired of Ridbnell and Gless chatting me up nonstop.”
“Merls is more than twice her age. She’s just flirting so he helps her out.”
The [Adjutant] insisted. She wasn’t that protective of her coworkers, having also had the delightful Drake seniority experience with superiors chatting her up and not being able to blow them off. Thankfully, she outranked everyone but actual Wall Lords here. However, Sasni eyed Welsca.
“If she’s doing that, she’s going so far into the act I’d say it reaches right back around to authentic. She had a personal dinner with Merls out on the town last night. Four full hours, and he came back preening over himself.”
“…What?”
Another shrug.
“Apparently, she was all over him, asking about his career with House Gemscale, the Goblin Lord, what he thought about the north, south, everything! It’s eerie how much she seems to like us.”
“Huh. And the paperwork?”
“She does it better than half the new interns. Look.”
Sasni pushed the papers over, and Welsca eyed the neat handwriting and checked boxes in the report forms. She shook her head.
 
——
 
It was true. Damia Reinhart was working hard. And that was not to say her job was fun.
Truthfully, after the third time you busted a [Foreman] for speciesism, you were probably done with any ‘fun’ elements or even rewarding feelings. Same with cleaning tents or reviewing reports of unsanitary conditions and finding someone had crapped in the corner of a worksite and shovelled dirt over it.
Some of the tasks Damia handled were boring. It was just that she didn’t find it entirely boring because she was here.
In Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp where he was digging up something that was 372% related to The Wandering Inn! Not just that. Damia was all-too-willing to take on more work.
Like…the first thing she approached Welsca with was a proposal.
“Miss Welsca, I have reports in each Dig Site about teams not pulling their weight.”
“Ah, that’s a known issue, Miss Damia. It’s inevitable and accounted for.”
Really? According to both managers and grunts, some teams were working at literally a quarter of the output of other teams! But Welsca barely glanced at the numbers, and Damia’s brain went—
Ping. [Remember That].
Another intelligence Skill. However, Damia pretended not to notice and smiled.
“Even so, Adjutant, that kind of thing hurts morale. Why work if another team can earn the same pay by putting in no effort? See my proposal here.”
She handed over the paper, and Welsca wiped at her spectacles, sighing.
“I’m aware, Lady Damia, but we are not going to reallocate teams or—a contest?”
“Everyone loves a good competition, Welsca. I’m thinking a five-day holiday to Liscor and all the connected cities as the prize. It doesn’t even have to be a high monetary budget. Just say it’s paid time. Let’s say one team wins, this is how much it costs…and imagine how much they’ll race!”
Welsca hesitated.
“We…do need to dig. You know we have an, ah, a monster issue? We still need to dig around them and delve deeper—but a contest would lead to teams cutting corners and potentially put [Advance Miners] in danger.”
“Oh, of course—”
The [Lady] deflated, and Welsca, despite herself, bit her lip and sighed.
“However, we do have an established framework in Salazsar. Teams have to pass safety checks, and if it’s in areas where we’re just widening shafts and it’s the amount of dirt shifted…it’s an intriguing proposal, but it would require a lot of announcements and organization!”
“I’m happy to help, Adjutant. If it’s above our pay grades, I could present the idea to Wall Lord Ilvriss…”
And that was the secret. Damia’s helpful, beaming smile made the [Adjutant] eye her incredulously. She turned, and one of her friends mouthed ‘ninety-four’ at her. Because Damia was genuinely motivated.
If she took on more work and did enough, it was inevitable she’d need to speak to Wall Lord Ilvriss. Which, at this moment, was one of her crowning goals.
Meet the Wall Lord again, get in with The Wandering Inn, and potentially have dinner with him. He seemed quite good at what he did, and if Damia was going to make a list of possible partners…well, she still had to scope out a few other famous people from the inn, but she was quite open to dalliances.
 
——
 
The one silver lining to being a former [Incestuous Lady] was that Damia had zero concern about her maidenly values. If anything, her mother would have probably said any rendezvous besides Wernel could only inflate Damia’s worth in that very simplistic regard.
Plus, Damia had never had people vying for her attention in any way beyond her power or fame herself. She was writing down a list of ideas for morale as she chatted with Binevy and Varnie in their shared tent.
“Let’s see. Can we do a talent competition or—or music one like the Battle of the Bands? We don’t have much instrumentation, but everyone can sing, right? Let me talk to—who’s my contact today? Right, Ridbnell today. Binevy, you were researching worker productivity in other continents. Noelictus does musicians in the fields, and there are storytellers in weaveries in Stitch-folk cities? Anything else you found out?”
Binevy handed her a selection of texts she’d paid to have copied out, and Varnie flipped a knife up and down, eying Damia with much the same expression as the [Head Maid]. Then Damia glanced at her.
“Varnie, if you were going to have a one night stand with Merls, Gless, or Ridbnell, who would you choose?”
The [Gang Leader] missed her timing on the dagger and it nearly ran her through her bared stomach. She rolled out of the hammock she’d set up, swearing.
“Are you serious?”
“Lady Damia, they’re Drakes! Not even well-placed Drakes!”
Binevy appeared horrified. Damia twirled a quill, scowling at Binevy.
“Oh hush, I’d make it clear it was temporary, and what do I have to lose? It’s better than Wernel.”
“Well…yes…”
It was really hard for Binevy to argue with that. Varnie just folded her arms.
“You have to be doing all this for a reason. You think Salazsar’s going to make you that rich, is that it? I’ve been trying to figure out your game, boss lady. Savin’ me, that’s a proper Reinhart move, and I’m grateful. But as far as I can tell, the Wall Lord’s not payin’ you to be running around like a lapdog. What’s this for?”
It was good to have employees who weren’t yes-men. Sule was the most obedient and straightforward of the trio, but Binevy’s glance made Damia chuckle to herself. She knew that despite her Skills, Varnie’s loyalty was no sure thing.
She was a Face, and gratitude wore out. Binevy…
“Are you still reporting to my Aunt Cosoi, Binevy? Or have other members of the family made you offers? Is Aunt Cosoi alive, by the way? I hope she is. You’re allowed to take money to spy on me, just not tell them anything valuable. The same for you, Varnie.”
Binevy jumped and was so visibly rattled Damia congratulated herself.
“M-milady Damia, I—”
Varnie blinked, and Damia smiled. It had come to her when she was dozing one time while using [Think Harder].
“It’s fine. It’s the House Reinhart way. Just remember—I did save Varnie, and I’ve earned a good amount of gold in record time, levelling no less than six times this month and counting. You want to back the right horse? That’s me.”
She blew on the ink, stoppered the inkwell, and turned.
“As for why I’m here, Varnie, you’re right. It’s not about the gold. I want to get in with Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“In his sheets or good graces?”
“At least the latter. The former if I really like him or it helps me. I’m a Reinhart, Varnie. Why are you giving me that look? Haven’t you traded on everything you could to get to where you were?”
The former leader of the Sorcerous Blades folded her scarred arms. She was a veteran of knife-fights, a very dangerous person with them according to the other [Gang Boss]—just not against heavily-armored Golems.
“Talk to the Sisters of Chell if you want to exchange stories like that. I never slept around to get where I was. It’s a fast way to lose respect.”
“Well then, I shall tactically do so when I feel like it. Or for fun. The point I was making is that Wall Lord Ilvriss has more to offer than gold. He’s connected to The Wandering Inn.”
“Oh Five Families, it’s your inn theory again.”
Binevy groaned. Varnie just listened as Damia explained.
“The Wandering Inn has what we all want. Stop shaking your head, Binevy. You’ve levelled too! It makes people high-level, Varnie. Even Faces! Look at all the guests of the inn and even friends. All of them have levelled over ten times in one year. Octavia Cotton—now Saliss of Lights’ best apprentice and inventor of Occillium. Liska—you saw her yourself! Coach Joseph—and the adventuring teams the inn helped out are approaching Named-rank!”
Varnie squatted down, picked her dagger up off the floor, and began flipping it again, but thoughtfully.
“Or dead. That woman’s left a trail of bodies longer’n most average [Gang Leaders]. You don’t want to mess with the inn, kid.”
“What do you know?”
The [Gang Boss] shrugged. She was technically an [Underworld Leader of Stabbed Corpses]—a very awesome-sounding class. Level 36. A full Face, even if not the biggest one around, come from the north. Her gang had been small but deadly. She had barely fourteen of her people left, but Damia had a real staff in the works with Cosoi’s servants as well. Security and staff.
She needed more money to pay for all their wages, but at least right now she was doing okay with Ilvriss’ money. Actually…that gave Damia an idea, and she wrote something down. Her brain seemed to be getting better at thinking. She could do it longer, and she had more and more creative ideas the more she practiced.
“What do I know about the inn? Just a bit. Names’n faces. You don’t gauge places like that by what they do in the gangs. More like who they leave behind. And she’s got names. Not done in by her, but…there’s Mister Soot. Ripped to shreds in Liscor. Used to run the place. A full squad of the Hatmen and the Sisters wiped out by a single Goblin. The Gentlemen Callers walked up to her front door, and apparently even they got rocked. Several high-level brothers—Crimshaw the Bowler ate it. Or not—there’s a weird rumor around that…oh, and the Bloodfeast Raiders want her dead.”
“Is that last part as impressive? They want everyone dead.”
Varnie grinned mirthlessly.
“They want her dead, and she ain’t. And the inn’s not burned and everyone dead. That’s a warning in itself. So yeah, I buy it. The inn’s got power. But it’ll scorch ya if you can’t harness it. Got a plan?”
“First, I need to find it.”
Damia’s eyes glittered. She grew so excited when she thought of going through the doors of the inn she had to get up and pace.
“I-if I got in, and you know the front hallway’s trapped? If I got in, Varnie, that’s what counts. The inn wipes out its enemies, but I’m not one of them. I could just be useless to them—that’s the second-worst outcome. But so what? I’ll take being Jeweled!”
Neither of the other two got the reference, so Damia had to tell them the Jewel story. Varnie’s eyes rose, and she actually recalled the addendum to the famous quest to find Mershi. She listened attentively, sold on Damia’s ideas.
…But she did stop listening after the fourth inn story.
 
——
 
Damia didn’t spend all her time helping Ilvriss, of course. He had a very brief meeting with her at the end of the first work cycle and personally handed her a contract with her pay sent to the Merchant’s Guild—and a sizable bonus.
“I’ve been exceptionally impressed, Lady Damia. If you’re willing, I’d love for you to continue on in your posting. Welsca and my people had nothing bad to say about you; quite the contrary. I only regret I can’t spend as much time here—I’m always riding back to Liscor, and it is a hectic time.”
For some reason, he had a miner’s helmet on his head. And a pickaxe by his side.
Very…magical items. Varnie had been biting her knuckles bloody all day. She’d told Damia every instinct in her and her people’s bodies had screamed to steal those items.
Damia wore the most pleasant, helpful smile possible.
“I’m delighted to hear it, Wall Lord! If there’s anything I can do to help? Is there a project I could assist with, or the excavation troubles? I’m no [Strategist], but I do have a higher-level fighter under my command in Varnie. If I can do anything—”
Unfortunately, for once, she miscalculated. Ilvriss had been somewhat off, and now he glanced at Welsca, who had a second helmet and miner’s gear on her. His claw stole possessively to the pickaxe, and he cleared his throat.
“That won’t be necessary, Lady Damia. I do appreciate your willingness, but we’re engaged in highly sensitive operations. Major Shellc has it well in hand, and Captain Asrira is also forming a new taskforce—I do appreciate the offer, however. Someone to keep the gears running smoothly is already helpful enough.”
Translation: he didn’t trust her. Damia’s face fell.
“I understand, Wall Lord. But if you had the chance, I’d love to ask a few questions of you? Purely as a student of the south and—Liscor, really. Do you have an evening free?”
That interested him.
“I did want to speak to you and Clan Leader Plisce more in person. Welsca, do I have any openings in the evening?”
Yes, yes, y—Welsca snapped a folder shut.
“I’m afraid that you need to return to The Wandering Inn, Wall Lord. One must dance away to Liscor.”
“Ah, damn. My aching shins. Perhaps after that, Miss Damia?”
“Of…course, Wall Lord.”
Damia deflated and wondered what the hell that meant. It had to be something incredible. Then she smiled and locked eyes with Welsca.
The one member of staff who wasn’t her best friend at the moment eyed Damia. She walked Damia out, and the [Lady] whispered to her as they left the tent.
“I thought we were being friendly, Welsca! What was that about, may I ask?”
The Drake [Adjutant] pointedly glanced Damia up and down. The [Lady] had put on a formal dress, despite it not fitting with the dirty plains and tents; perfume; and styled her hair after bathing.
“Moved on so quickly from Merls, Lady Reinhart?”
“Moving on implies I didn’t intend anything more than a stop on my travels, Miss Welsca.”
“Ah, well then…your affection for Wall Lord Ilvriss is noted. However, he is still mourning Lieutenant Periss.”
“I know that! I wasn’t pushing—”
Welsca leaned over.
“You’re not the only person who is holding a [Light] spell for the Wall Lord, Lady Damia. Sadly—if anyone has a shot, it’s that dratted [Princess] at the inn.”
Damia gasped. Did she mean…? Welsca wore a sour expression.
“Not that I think it’s the most likely in any case, but I know a bad engagement when I see one.”
“But you—? Then why are you sabotaging me and sending him to Liscor?”
The Drake adjusted her spectacles.
“Misery prefers company, Lady Damia. I’m dangling off a cliff, and you’re dancing on the edge. I’d prefer to pull you off so we can hang together.”
That—was a very Drake and Reinhart way of doing things. Damia stuck out her tongue at Welsca, and the Drake did likewise. Then they laughed, and Damia realized she and Welsca might become actual friends.
“You’d make a lovely Reinhart if you were meaner. Fine, you win. I’ll be back.”
Welsca adjusted her helmet.
“Today’s not a good day, anyways. It’s rather—delicate. But you are working hard for House Gemscale, and I am paying attention. If you really are searching for company, may I recommend a brothel? I wouldn’t normally, but we have an employee working there…”
She sighed. Damia snorted at the strange suggestion.
“What? I thought you’d tell me to give Merls a second chance.”
“Me? Ancestors, no, he’s been insufferable all day. I’m sabotaging him too. Ever met a Level 50+ [Courtesan]?”
“A what?”
 
——
 
Damia was a bit let down by the short interaction with Ilvriss despite all her hard work. She told herself he was clearly in the middle of something super interesting and important…she just had to work harder.
But she had done her best, and she was a teensy bit depressed. So she went to a brothel.
Mostly because she really wanted to meet the legend herself, Xesci. The [Courtesan of Change] greeted Damia herself, and she did not disappoint.
“Hello, Lady Damia. I’ll just call you Damia since you clearly want to be my friend. Sadly, I’m not working. Managing is a full-time job. And you’d like…Roubles. A classic farm-lad. Huge shoulders. Very enthusiastic.”
The Drake held up a little book with a headshot and details, and Damia peered at the rather fetching young man, then smiled.
“I, ah, I rather came to meet you, Miss Xesci. I’d love to make your acquaintance.”
Xesci glanced Damia up and down again. Her brows bobbed up and down.
“Yes, you would. Fascinating. Few people feel that way. Unfortunately for you, I don’t like being desired as I am.”
“What? I’m sure I don’t think I was implying something—scandalous.”
Damia hesitated, because she was no stranger to the scandalous acts two women could get up to together, but Xesci was a Drake. However, the [Courtesan]’s smile was brief.
“Yes, you were. Wernel’s lost his appeal now no one cares, hasn’t he? Fair warning, Miss Damia, you’ve been poisoned.”
“How do you know about Wern—tell Wall Lord Ilvriss that’s long behind me, please! Wall Lord Ilvriss employs you? Do you have any interest in working for me?”
Damia was on the backfoot, confused. Who is this woman? Is this a Level 50 person? She’s so amazing. Xesci just walked around Damia, smiling like a serpent rather enjoying playing with a chick who’d wandered onto her coils.
“You’re so funny. I’ve met dozens of Reinharts, and you’re the happiest one.”
Those familiar words. Damia spat back, because she couldn’t help it.
“No one knows Reinharts. My family’s been gone from the world for nearly two decades! You don’t know us!”
Everyone had this image of Reinharts as evil, treacherous snakes, and there was some truth to it. But were they all—? Yet Xesci just raised one eyebrow.
“That wasn’t an attack. The rest was, but I don’t exaggerate. I have known Reinharts. Intimately. I’m older than you think. Listen to what I said. You are the happiest Reinhart. Self-serving, heroic, bitter and cynical, rising, falling—at this moment, you are the happiest one. Your family is more clever than they are amoral, without loyalty to land, passion for creation, love of sea, or infatuation with stone hearts. Cleverness alone is bitter. So you should treasure this, Lady Damia.”
She left the young woman speechless for a second until Xesci winked.
“At least for now. And you are also the one Reinhart who needs my services least. It’s just what I said, Damia—”
She stepped behind a lantern that hid her face for just a second, and Damia saw her form…ripple. When Xesci stepped forwards, a copy of Damia Reinhart stood there.
Perfect. Damia recoiled, gasped, and Damia-Xesci smiled, a bit rueful.
“Poisoned. Few things can poison a Reinhart, but this one might last long.”
“W-what kind of poison…?”
“Affection. Now you’ve tasted genuine respect and affection, paying for the version of it my class provides won’t be nearly as sweet. And it was already wearing thin. Go back to your work, Lady Damia. You can find everything you want without paying for it here.”
Damia Reinhart backed up, genuinely unnerved. She stared at Xesci, and the [Courtesan] made shooing motions. Only when Damia had fled did Xesci pause, then slap her forehead.
“…And I just turned away another customer. Wonderful. Lady Damia?”
She changed back to her form and shouted. The [Lady] whirled, eyes locked on Xesci, and the [Courtesan] shouted.
“Send your [Bodyguard] here—and your [Head Maid]! I’ll give them a discount!”
She gave Damia a thumbs up as the girl gaped, bewildered.
 
——
 
“Damn, Xesci the Changer herself’s in the brothel? I might have to visit.”
Varnie was squatting by the cattle fence as Damia leaned against it. The [Lady] was doing a bit of personal work with Varnie and a sheet of paper. Binevy and Sule were checking out a brothel.
Everyone had just been paid, though Varnie was only flipping a gold coin up and down and not looking impressed. This was not good money for a [Gang Boss], and even Damia wanted more. However…
“Tell me about her later, Varnie. We’re still in super-helpful mode, and since I don’t feel like making friends with Xesci is the right option…”
“You’re right about that. She’s not the violent type, but people who went against her tended to get hurt. By people who like her. Real shapechanger, that one, or so I’ve heard.”
“You don’t know the half of it. Anyways, here’s how much gold I can spend.”
Damia held up her calculations, and Varnie eyed the number.
“Right. That buys you one mid-grade ring or lower-grade weapon. One nice set of steel plate, maybe, and a good amount of plain steel weapons.”
Damia’s heart sank.
“I know magic’s expensive, but—really?”
“Sorry. You want to gear us out like Gold-rankers? You need tens of thousands of gold for a team. Wall Lord Ilvriss don’t pay that much.”
“He barely paid for more than all your salaries! This is all I have from my time in House Reinhart, but you heard what attacked him! Hunter-Killer Terland Golems and super undead?”
The [Miners] talked, even if Damia wasn’t caught up or in the loop. Varnie grimaced.
“Thought I’d never have to fight a Golem again after you sprung me from the noose. I’d rather put my head back in one and have Lord Xitegen hoist the rope than fight House Terland’s assassin-Golems. Every now and then, some [Gang Leader] decides to make a stir in First Landing or Terland lands and not do it smooth and gentle. They make sure you know it was one of their Golems. Mostly, it’s the footprints in what remains of their skulls.”
Damia shuddered.
“Well, brainstorm with me. I need you and your people to arm yourselves for potential engagements with either group.”
Varnie shot Damia an alarmed glance, and Damia waved her hands.
“I won’t throw you away! You’re irreplaceable, Varnie! Reinharts waste nothing, especially people we actually like.”
“You’re all heart. Actually, that makes me feel better than if you were tellin’ me you were my best friend. It’s a big ask, though…”
The woman scratched at her raven hair, and Damia shrugged.
“Well, it’s necessary! Think of it as self-defense. Remember the half-Elf that started this whole mess? Do you really want to be unprotected, even if you and I parted ways?”
“Right. Fuck. I ain’t got a clue what to do with him, but I guess…work up from Terland Golems. Damnit, my granny said I’d hate the new era, and she were right. Okay, the problem’s armor.”
She twirled one of her daggers as Damia nodded, and they conferred.
“I can cut a man’s throat fast. [Free Slash] plus one of these and poison means I end one person before the fight starts. But that doesn’t work on something that ain’t got a throat or has armor on. And anything out of arm’s reach has the drop on me and my people. We like nice, confined spaces. This place is open. And it stinks.”
She spat, and Damia nodded.
“So what would you do if you knew you had to clash with Lord Xitegen…? Give me something to go off of, and I’ll take it from there.”
Varnie thought, sighing. She rubbed at her face.
“If I had to? The biggest damn crossbows I could find. Nets and traps. Slow ‘em down and break the armor. Only, even crossbows won’t pierce Golem armor, not unenchanted. A warhammer and steel wire nets? Not sure that works on undead.”
“You don’t have…some clever underworld tricks?”
A half-glare, then a laugh.
“Tricks? Sure, tons! Mostly baiting it into another gang you don’t like! There’s all kinds of tricks—but all of it’s too expensive, kid. Like there’s this trick where you take twenty wands, put ‘em together in a box, and fire them off. Blasts an entire corridor to slag. But it costs so much and burns out all the wands—once they start firing, you can’t stop ‘em cause of the magical interference. Or you can buy a potion and become an [Expert Swordswoman]—for ten minutes. You can’t afford even the potion.”
Damia saw the problem. She gnawed at her lip.
“Can’t you, I don’t know, use your underworld contacts and call in some favors? We need something, Varnie.”
The [Gang Boss] pulled a face.
“I suppose I’m in this until my debt’s paid…and nearly dancing the hemp jig makes you think you should really call in those favors while you’re alive. Argh, fine. I’ll see what I can do. Give me eight hundred gold pieces, and don’t come complaining to me if I turn up empty-handed.”
Damia wrote Varnie a letter authorizing her to take eight hundred gold pieces out of her account and gave the woman her signet ring of House Reinhart. Varnie promised to ride to Invrisil with six of her people and come back within the week with whatever she had.
The [Lady] saw her off and then was eating lunch when it occurred to her she’d given a [Gang Boss] a huge sum of gold, her signet ring, and sent her to Invrisil without any oversight. Damia told herself that Varnie honored her debts, that she had [Loyalty of the Low], and that if Varnie wanted to betray Damia…now was the perfect moment to ride off with all that stuff.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was just past his Hoarding incident, and he’d decided to put in some actual work around the expedition. His first stop was Lady Damia; he’d wanted to know why she was actually here, and she had been helpful.
He found her at one of the mess tables and began to approach—then halted.
“Stupid Damia! You just had to stop thinking! Stupid, stupid, stupid—”
The aforementioned [Lady] was crying, hitting her head with her fists, and banging it on the table. Wall Lord Ilvriss hesitated, then decided he’d check on her later.
You had to admit, though, she was highly entertaining. Real Erin energy, if not quite the same. A mix of Erin and Ryoka, he supposed. Erin positivity and Ryoka failure and self-recriminations.
 
——
 
Damia stopped beating herself up because she’d given herself a cut on the head from the wooden table. And people were staring. Then she turned, saw Wall Lord Ilvriss walking away, and realized he’d come by to talk to her and seen her.
She was glancing around for the nearest Dig Site to throw herself over the safety railings when it happened. The Wall Lord was walking off nonchalantly, pretending not to have seen a wailing [Lady], when the air—flickered. He half-pivoted, putting a hand on his sword hilt, and Damia’s heart lurched.
“Stealth Golem! Watch out!”
She leapt up, screaming. Damia whirled, but Varnie was gone and Sule was in the brothel! She saw the Rubirel Guard jerk. Damia began to run.
“Evacuate the area! It’s a Golem attack! Protect the Wall L—”
The shimmering air resolved as Ilvriss backed up, and then it materialized into…a little white Gnoll girl, semi-transparent and wearing a kilt, stepped out of the air. Her head whipped around, and she held up a notecard.
Hey, Ilvriss, your stupid anti-scrying rings make this harder than it should be. What’s up?
Her paw blurred as Damia stopped running and froze. Mrsha wrote rapidly and held up a card.
Whoa! Golem attack!? Where? I’ll tell Mom!
Everyone was eyeing Damia Reinhart. The [Lady] halted as Ilvriss stopped spinning around, realized her mistake, and put a hand over his mouth. She covered her face and tried to pretend she didn’t exist.
 
——
 
Damia and the Rubirel Guard had to clarify the situation. She did so, apologizing, beet red, about to cry.
Only one thing kept her anchored and from running to hide under her bed in her tent, and it was the little Gnoll girl standing and talking with Ilvriss. Well, writing in the air with a glowing paw.
Mrsha du Marquin.
The Mrsha du Marquin, the Doombearer who’d faced off against Chieftain Xherw, the one who’d exposed the entire conspiracy, the Gnoll who’d survived Raskghar and the Goblin Lord—
And who’d seen Damia making a complete toad of herself in public. Even so, the [Lady] slunk closer. She lingered around the Wall Lord and Gnoll girl’s position, pretending to be walking, stretching, watching them and trying to listen, but the Rubirel Guard were there. Were they…peeking at her?
 
——
 
Yo, Ilvriss. Forsooth and all that. I actually came by to tell you that Mom wants to know if you’ll be back tomorrow. Apparently, the Players of Celum released some new play, and the Players of Invrisil are putting it on. It’s ‘adult’, so I’m banned. Nanette’s gonna weasel her way in, but you down? How’s the shit digging? Also, who’s the weird [Lady]?
Mrsha the Casual was checking up on Ilvriss, and her writing was a bit less polished than it used to be. But Ilvriss just grinned at her in genuine good humor. He chuckled.
“Isn’t she funny? She’s Damia Reinhart, and she’s decided to help my expedition. I thought it was some kind of Reinhart ploy, but Welsca said she’s been nothing but a credit. I wish you were here, though. Life is quite dull—just complaints and problems.”
Mrsha’s head snapped around, and a [Lady] went walking by and admiring…cowpats or something.
Did you just say Damia Reinhart?
“Oh no, don’t tell me she’s actually a problem. I know she’s Cecille Reinhart’s daughter, but she’s seemed to be—”
You should talk to her. She might be…useful. Or dangerous. But we should talk to her. Why the heck is she here?
The fact that Mrsha knew Damia’s name sounded warning bells in Ilvriss’ head. He bent over.
“Are you sure it’s safe? What should I know? Is it…the [Palace]?”
For a second, Mrsha gave Ilvriss a weary gaze beyond her age, then she shrugged and wrote.
My guy, everything is the palace in the end. In this case? Yes, but nothing I know indicates she’s bad, necessarily. Hmm. Let me talk to her first. I’ll be ultra random and Erin-weird, and then you can be professional.
“Good plan.”
They nodded at each other, and Mrsha cleared her throat. She massaged her face, made a bleh sound in the back of her throat, then got on all fours. She scampered over to Damia, did a somersault, then sat up with the cutest face she had as Ilvriss watched.
It seemed like it hurt Mrsha’s soul to do that, if her momentary grimace was any indication. She wrote in the air with a glowing paw.
Hewwo! I’m Mrsha the Ultimately Dangerous! Salutations and give me all your gold! I need a cookie! Pwease and tanks! Are you a good person? Your Mom eats Creler eggs. Why are you here?
It was like…a parody of the actual Gnoll girl’s antics in the past. It was still probably effective to anyone Mrsha hadn’t met, but it was slightly undercut by Wall Lord Ilvriss.
He had begun wheezing as he read the glowing words. Now he was laughing so hard he couldn’t actually speak, silently dying as he held onto one of the Rubirel Guard’s shoulders. Mrsha glared at him and gave him the finger while Damia read the words.
Her eyes widened. Mrsha waited, her most cutesy expression straining her face, resolving to toss Calescent’s death-spices in Ilvriss’ next meal. But for all her wariness, even she couldn’t predict what Lady Damia did next. The [Lady] finished reading, then her eyes locked on Mrsha, and her face lit up like the sun.
“Miss Mrsha! I’m such a big—c-can I have an autograph? No, wait, this is the [World’s Eye Theatre], isn’t it? I’m seeing it in person! You can have all the gold you—I could write you a voucher if you want gold! I’ll send it to the Merchant’s Guild in Liscor! My mother is terrible, I apologize so much for her! I just want to help with the dig! May I shake your paw?”
She held out a trembling hand to Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl leaned back in the face of the seemingly-genuine delight on Damia’s face. The [Lady] tentatively touched Mrsha’s ghostly paw, dancing around her.
“And you’re using magic! Is anyone else there? I’m so sorry, I know this is inn business. I promise I’m not trying to do anything to the inn! I swear! It—oh my—”
Her eyes rolled up in her head. She put a hand to her head, and then she collapsed on the ground. Ilvriss stopped laughing and began to run over. Mrsha stared at Damia.
Huh. I did not expect that.
 
——
 
Damia came round in moments, and her embarrassment at passing out from sheer delight was only matched by having Mrsha and Ilvriss peering over her.
“I—I’m so sorry, I’m a mess, and I just—this is everything I’ve wanted.”
What, everything you’ve wanted? Meeting the White Rat of Liscor—no relation to the more successful Ice Squirrel—and the Lord of Purple himself?
“Hey.”
Ilvriss fake-nudged Mrsha, but they were watching her as Damia struggled to her feet.
“No, I—I’m just an admirer of the inn, Miss Mrsha. I didn’t know you existed until, what, a few weeks ago? But when I found out what you did—why wouldn’t I be?”
Is she crazy? Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a look. Fans of The Wandering Inn existed, but they were rare and usually original citizens of Liscor or people who’d become friends.
“You…found out about The Wandering Inn and liked what you heard, Lady Damia? Really? That’s what led you here?”
This was the first thing Ilvriss couldn’t actually believe. However, Damia insisted.
“You must have tons of adherents, surely! After all the inn has done for Liscor, the region, the world? Miss Erin Solstice invented <Quests>, didn’t she?”
Whoa, she does know us.
Mrsha was vaguely alarmed. She’d heard Damia was intelligent, but not…enthusiastic. But then, her learning about one version of Damia in the Goblin King’s future had been just an aside from Xitegen. Even so, she had to ask.
No one likes the inn. Liscor remembers the good Erin did, and the bad, Miss Damia. And there’s plenty of both. The only ‘fans’ she has are real weirdos like that Gnoll guy who thinks she’s a ‘sexual fiend’. Ever met him, Ilvriss?
“…No. Is that a joke?”
I wish. If you’re a real fan of the inn, uh, prove it! What’s my last name?
“Stone Spears or du Marquin? Or Demas Metal or—I forget your birth mother’s tribe! Argh! But you wouldn’t claim them, so—the first two?”
Damia appeared uncertain and worried, but Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged another glance. Oh shit, she’s good. Ilvriss tried, growing genuinely fascinated.
“Er, that’s broadly correct. But if you know the inn—you can’t have visited. However, any fan would know the inn had a [Bartender], once.”
“Drassi Tewing, who became Channel 2’s anchor—well, she was Channel 1 with Sir Relz first—after confronting them about the Yellow Rivers disease!”
Damn. Maybe she was legit. Mrsha kept scratching her head.
Alright, you know the inn. But…you actually want to visit? People die there, you know. We’ve got Goblins, Antinium, undead, and maggots. Bird always has one or two in her rooms. She’s actually gross as heck sometimes.
Lumping Goblins and Antinium together with undead and maggots got a shoe thrown at Mrsha’s head by Picker. She took cover as someone hucked a dustrag at her too, and Damia’s face lit up.
“Are they there? Can I meet them? I don’t have a problem with either!”
“Your family participated in the Sacrifice of Roses. At least some did.”
This time, Ilvriss’ skepticism actually grew. He saw Damia Reinhart hesitate, and her eyes flicked to his face, then Mrsha’s, a moment before a smile appeared on her face. Both noticed that.
She’s still a Reinhart. She was thinking of a lie. But then Damia noticed their skeptical faces and drew in a breath.
“I…I was just a child when the Goblin King rampaged, and I didn’t know anyone personally who died. I was born after the Antinium came to Izril. Be it so selfish, but I don’t care about what feels like ancient history to me. Is—that sounds worse than I wish it to be.”
Ilvriss, as someone who’d lived through both Antinium Wars, even if he wasn’t that old, felt a pang at Damia’s comments. It was Mrsha who frowned.
Really? Well, here’s an Antinium. Say hi, Goldbody, Picker.
The Antinium and Goblin warily edged into frame. Instantly, there was a shout of horror; some Salazsarian Drakes had seen the two and freaked out. Goldbody wavered, and Picker eyed Damia. And the Reinhart’s eyes widened—then she held out a hand.
“H-hello. I’m Damia Reinhart. I’m no Goblinfriend…but I could be, possibly? I’d like to meet the Antinium of Liscor too, but I think they’re all afraid of me.”
She held out her hand to Picker, bending over, and then Ilvriss felt his neck spines rising and scales tingling.
Could a [Lady] fake the genuine excitement and nerves like that? Even Cecille Reinhart’s daughter?
He began to believe this was a familiar thing he’d found before at Erin’s inn, but different and welcome. It was Mrsha whose face screwed up with suspicion and worry. She drew herself up and put an arm out.
When she wrote, Damia turned to Mrsha and hesitated. Because the girl said:
No offense, Lady Damia, but I don’t buy it. Say you like the inn. Okay. You’re still a Reinhart, and with respect, I’ve never heard of a Reinhart doing anything that doesn’t help them in some way. Magnolia sealed you away for a reason. Can you swear you don’t have a grudge against her or want something from the inn?
Again, the [Lady] froze, and she seemed genuinely nervous. Afraid…that they wouldn’t like her? The Wall Lord and Gnoll Doombearer studied her, and Damia took a quick breath. She hesitated, then she sank to one knee and looked Mrsha in the eyes.
When she spoke, her voice was aquiver, and it felt like she was confessing something intimate and scary. But this was it. She might not get another chance if Mrsha vanished. And Ilvriss—Damia glanced up at him and then saw an [Innkeeper] with a hat full of flames. A girl waving a white flag.
The stuff of stories. So Damia told them the truth, her only card to play.
“It’s true. I don’t want to visit The Wandering Inn for selfless reasons. Does anyone in this world do anything for others without a reward?”
Yes.
Mrsha didn’t blink. Damia’s heart beat faster, and her throat constricted. Her voice wobbled. Oh no.
“I—I wouldn’t know. I’m a Reinhart. You’re right, I don’t understand…but I wish to visit, Miss Mrsha. Please? Even if not the inn, just—you can use me in some kind of weird Solstice event. I’d love to be part of it. I don’t care if it’s risky. If something is going on, put me in. Please.”
You don’t know what you’re asking for. You don’t want to be part of a real Solstice event.
Mrsha backed up a step, and she appeared tired. Upset. She half-turned, and Damia reached out. Her hand passed through Mrsha’s arm, and she cried out.
“I do! I was so bored in the north. I am angry at Magnolia—but maybe she did me a favor. Not wholly, and I will collect my interest. But I can imagine just staying in the north, being complacent, if I had been myself my entire life. Instead, when I woke up from her Skill, I left my home. That was the right choice, even if it was due to desperation. I would never have been content there. I was so miserable, and nothing really mattered to me. I wanted to be important or just—provocative so badly I slept with my brother.”
Er…that’s too much information—
The girl turned back, and Ilvriss eyed Damia, but the [Lady] was panting now, desperate to get the words back. She was kneeling and scooted closer to Mrsha. Eyes on the girl.
“I mean it. I want to level. I want to do something amazing, even if it means risking my life. Would you take a life of boring peace?”
Yes.
“Yes.”
Ilvriss and Mrsha replied at the same time. Damia’s head swung between them, and her face screwed up.
“It’s meaningless to me. Maybe it’d be different if I had—friends. A place to go. But I’ve nothing to my name. Not class nor levels nor a purpose. I went to Liscor and I started levelling. It felt like I was alive. I want to see it. Everything around me is the product of the inn, shaped by its passage. I long for the real thing, like a moth to the flame. Take me in, please. Let me be a guest. Allow me entrance, and break me apart if you must. Even if I die, I never want to go back and sit in my meaningless home.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss and Mrsha du Marquin stood there as Damia finished and became conscious of her audience. They always watched her, that silly [Lady]. Because she was funny and odd. But this confession struck the people watching her, because it was…honest. Damia’s honesty. It was the inn, the real inn that people tried to pretend wasn’t truly that powerful.
So, the Salazsarian employees were staring at her. Silverfangs turning to each other in shock. Even Liscorians were frankly incredulous, Riverfarm’s folk appalled by the [Lady] who had chosen an [Innkeeper]’s madness over an [Emperor]’s mercy.
And even…Damia’s head turned, and she saw Binevy and Sule standing there. They’d chickened out of using the brothel’s services. The young man was scratching his head, intrigued and confused. But the [Head Maid] met her mistress’ eyes, and it felt like Binevy had finally seen Damia.
Her eyes were wide, unnerved. She gazed upon the kneeling [Lady] like some kind of strange monster. It was the expression every Reinhart servant gave their employer in time. How they came to understand the people they might choose to follow.
But Damia…Damia Reinhart was a unique one, even among her den of vipers.
 
——
 
Lady Cecille Reinhart’s cigarette flared like a cherry in the darkness of her room. She exhaled smoke in a ring and blew a smaller circle through it. Then added a third through the center of both. She watched the faintly crimson smoke vanishing, then took another drag.
Then her eyes fell down to the [Message] scroll, and she brushed some of the ash from the cigarette off it. The transcript of Damia’s confession was still drying on the parchment, as Binevy and a separate spy had recorded. Only a fool trusted one spy.
In that moment, the [Lady] understood her daughter a bit. So that was what freedom had made of her. Cecille exhaled again and spoke.
“Foolish girl. Of course this mansion is dull. We’ll all move out and find our abodes soon. The only joy of gathering here is to match wits among equals. Dull? It is duller outside, when you are the only fresh pair of eyes in a sea of people who walk staring at the shadows on the ground.”
More ash fell, and Cecille’s face twisted further. A bitter scowl that would have told her daughter just as much about her mother, if Damia had seen it. But Cecille had learned to hide it all.
“The pure light is not meant for Reinharts. The shadows we cast are too long. You long for the first spark of authenticity because it looks so tantalizing. There will be more. Do you think you’re so special? So unique?”
She rubbed at her side, just above the left side of her stomach. Her thigh itched. The [Lady] lifted the hem of her dress, exposing a long-faded tattoo whose magic and trust was gone.
“In time…they will disappoint you. Or you will sully them by aiding them. They will not stay so pure. And when they reveal their true colors—”
Cecille whirled. For a second, she stared into a vanity and saw another [Lady] racing off with earnest desires and the belief she was the one Reinhart who saw beyond it all. She spoke, eyes stinging from the smoke.
“When they show you who they are and you come slinking back home in shame, we shall make good use of your levels.”
That was how she said goodbye to her daughter. For a while.
 
——
 
As for Damia? She knelt, trembling as a Gnoll girl stood there and a Wall Lord tried to interject. Steer her from the cliff she wanted to walk off of. But Mrsha just searched Damia’s face, then smiled bleakly. Guiltily.
“I know I’m a Reinhart, Mrsha. But am I allowed to be more than my family’s name?”
The guilty words of a daughter of the Five Families hit Mrsha in the face like Alber’s best punch. She rocked back on her heels, mouth open, and then just looked Damia up and down. Actually scratched at her head, and pulled a hair out with a wince. Then Mrsha wrote, a heavy little paw solemnly writing to Damia. And the girl believed each word mattered. Because she knew what Mrsha had done.
Well, I don’t know how right you are about all that, Damia. We’re not…Gods. Some might say we’re the opposite. But The Wandering Inn is not so full we can turn away friends or allies. I’ll hold a seat for you, if you can help Ilvriss. I hope you don’t regret it. But thank you. For believing in us.
Disbelieving, heart lifting in her chest, Damia rose. Mrsha exhaled, then held out a paw. And it might have contained a [Witch]’s wonders, an [Innkeeper]’s chaos, the power of fate and destiny, a Doombearer’s luck…or nothing at all. But Damia Reinhart took it with trembling hands and mimed shaking the air. And then she was part of it.
It was the happiest day of her life.
 
[Fangirl class obtained!]
[Fangirl Level 6!]
[Skill – Pass On Enthusiasm Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Lucky Charm (Memorabilia) Obtained!]
[Skill – Helper’s Increased Experience (The Wandering Inn) Obtained!]
 
——
 
Later that day, Mrsha du Marquin found her mother tending to the plants in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Sage’s Grass, cocoa trees, and other valuable crops. She was harvesting the pods of slimy seeds and sighing.
“What’s even the point if Oteslia’s growing all this…? Oh, right. The Antinium want their own for their greenhouses. Mrsha, dear, your plants grow a bit too well sometimes.”
Mrsha, who had raised Faerie Flowers until they had grown enough to pierce Skills themselves, had a bit of a green thumb. The Gnoll girl came over to help her mother. After a while, she held up a card.
Hey, Mom?
“Yes, dear?”
I committed a racism today.
Lyonette almost said ‘that’s nice’, until she glanced down and saw Mrsha’s guilty expression. She stood there, mouth open, until Apista buzzed down for hugs. And Mrsha resolved never to do it again. She just hadn’t known you could racism like that. It was a pernicious thing, the racisms.
 
——
 
The effect of Lady Damia Reinhart was more than just one helpful [Lady] making the camp better. It was her darn enthusiasm. And her willingness to spam Skills.
The next day, Ilvriss woke up, and he did all of his paperwork for the week. He emerged from his tents, gnoshing on breakfast—a green apple and packaged Calescent spiced porridge which had no actual heat in it, because it was so much better than camp food—and he saw a group of [Miners] marching toward Dig Site B like thunder.
“Alright, you slack-tailed sloths, let’s get to it! I want those seams dug!”
The [Forewoman] was exhorting her people like they were [Soldiers]. And the [Soldiers]? They were armed and raring to go. Major Shellc was infected with the same energy.
“We are breaching four spots and engaging the undead. I want that growing Dorn Pillar dead. Drinks on me to the entire force if we get it. Captain Asrira, are you sure you’re ready?”
“Ready, sir.”
Captain Osthia was the one person not infected by the energy everyone else shared. She eyed Major Shellc as she and her girls sat—smoking Dreamleaf. Ilvriss half-halted.
“Captain Asrira, what are you doing?”
“Er, building morale, sir?”
She didn’t even hide the contraband drugs as the rest of the Sisters grinned. Osthia eyed Ilvriss.
“What’s with the camp, sir?”
“Camp? I’m just feeling it, Asrira. I must have rolled out of bed after some good sleep or something—ah, Welsca?”
“Wall Lord! We’re ready to work, sir. I’ve gotten ahead on several initiatives, and I’d like to consult with you on the equipment—we’re due in Liscor tomorrow, and I took the liberty of preparing against another [Rancher] assault.”
Welsca and half his staff were in fine fettle. Like Ilvriss, they’d cleared their work queues, and only when Ilvriss saw a sleepy Drake jogging to keep up with Welsca and glancing at her sidelong did he realize they were way too energetic for…for…
The culprit was still at the officer’s mess tables. Damia Reinhart barely peeked up when Ilvriss isolated the originator of the Skill.
“Lady Damia, do we have you to thank for this burst in motivation?”
It was her new Skill, according to Miss Binevy, but the anxious Human was standing by her [Lady], and Lady Damia, who had a new class and Skills and would normally be over the moon about such things…
“Yeah I guess.”
Ilvriss paused. He jerked his head.
“I’d love to talk further, Lady Damia, and I’ve the energy to do a walkabout if you do?”
It took Damia several moments to respond, and she listlessly spooned her food around her plate. Her hair was uncombed, and she was wearing pajamas, he realized. She gave him the most flat gaze he’d ever seen as she raised her head.
“Nah. What’s the point?”
“Er…”
Binevy whispered anxiously.
“She overdid it, Wall Lord! Her [Pass On Enthusiasm] Skill—I think she did it too much!”
Ah. Never let it be said Damia was anything but a hoot. Ilvriss hesitated, then patted Damia on the shoulder.
“I can see you’re in need of rest, Lady Damia. Perhaps ease back on the Skill, but you are an important part of our operations—dead gods, I’d make your position formal since we hired you as a temporary [Recruiter]. Just, er, take the day off. You’ve already earned your pay.”
Actually, if she could do this just for Ilvriss each day, he’d pay her all she was earning and more! The Wall Lord walked off, genuinely eager to clear all the items on his docket and be ahead. He felt great. Just a bit bad for the clearly-spent Damia.
He didn’t see the [Lady] drooping at her table as he marched off. Then…Damia’s head rising slowly, like someone underwater surfacing. Then she burst out.
“Employment? Of course—”
Damia Reinhart returned back to something close to normal after ten minutes. Which was actually terrifying in itself if you thought about it.
 
——
 
Enthusiasm didn’t mean a life without headaches. Ilvriss had two at the moment. Firstly, what to do with the Naamreles gear.
“It’s too good, sir. It should go to House Gemscale’s vaults or arm any Named-ranker or officer we have. This helmet? Sturdiness rated for [Generals]. We could give it to our High Command.”
The simple miner’s helmet sat in front of Ilvriss, and he stared at it. It was so damn insulting to the might of Salazsar that this helmet from days of yore was equivalent to a modern [General]’s helm. But it made sense.
“Everything we have is inferior to this magic, Welsca, truly?”
“Everything except a Relic, sir, or what’s stored in the vaults of Walled Families. Enchantments wear down with use. We were lucky the group that perished in the mines died before using up the charge of the magic. It’s kept them pristine. As has the lack of magicore or other mana-devouring nuisances.”
Magic was not infinite. Only the Heartflame Breastplate could withstand aeons of active use and not break. Salazsar had used all its old gear, hence why Ilvriss had decided to loot this city.
“But it begs the questions, surely—why was Naamreles buried with so much magic intact? Sserys was sure it had intact gear—he apparently spoke to a number of Drake ghosts across Izril.”
“Sir?”
Even knowing what she did Welsca had to give Ilvriss a double-take, but today was a red-letter day, and the Wall Lord wanted to be open. Transparent.
“You heard me, Welsca. You had to have known.”
“I-I did, sir, but—”
“Keep it private from the rest of the staff. It’s the kind of thing that sounds like insanity, but you’ve been to the inn…I swear that’s what happened. I just wish he knew more! But he was shouting all the damn coordinates and information in my earholes, and I didn’t exactly have time to write it down! Actually, I started to the moment he ran off to beat up the Dragonspeaker. Did you see me on my hands and knees writing on the ground with everyone dying around me?”
“No, sir. But Sserys really interrogated other ghosts…?”
“It’s an entire thing. I wish I’d asked Erin more about it. And I do wish he’d been more specific, but it’s hard to ask the [General of Drakes] questions when he’s straddling your chest, screaming orders in your earhole.”
“Sir?”
Ilvriss coughed, reddening at the memory. He’d thought it was an unnecessary position, but Sserys had led with ‘let me have my fun’. Which, when you put it in context with Xesci’s recent comments—
Surely not. But then he’d heard—but that was—
“…That aside, the gear’s too damn good. I don’t know what to do with it. Commit some of it back to Salazsar, I think. I don’t want to look like a Hoarder, and given our reactions…let’s have Enchanter Hedault consult with us just to make sure this is all what we think it is. And maybe offer a piece to Lady Damia. I intend to bring her into our confidence, Welsca.”
“Her? Wall Lord, are you sure? I know she’s been a credit, but—”
Ilvriss just smiled at Welsca.
“You heard her class, Welsca. [Fangirl]? I had no notion—I’m not trusting her with all of it. But would you deny she’s been a breath of fresh air?”
The Drake [Adjutant]’s face screwed up.
“I can’t, Wall Lord. I must point out, however, that she is an ambitious young woman. One with aims on yourself as well.”
“What? Me? Well, I’m sure it’s her attraction to The Wandering Inn. Let, uh, her meet Ishkr or Ser Dalimont and that’ll be that. I’m not in any mood to have a dalliance with someone half my age, Welsca.”
Ilvriss was highly amused, but he shot that one down instantly. He shook his head.
“What kind of degenerate would have a relationship with someone that much younger than he was?”
Welsca nodded rapidly and with great relief. Elsewhere in the world, Archmage Eldavin, Duke Rhisveri, and the Quarass of Germina experienced unexpected sneezing fits. Ilvriss drummed his claws on the desk.
“As for the other problem…alright, let me hear it.”
The other problem was not so grand as magical items of antiquity. The other problem had one name, and it was amazing it had gotten to Ilvriss’ level, but it was, after all…
Georgie.
 
——
 
Ilvriss would admit, he didn’t feel at home with this Turnscale business. He was doing his best, but his best thought was ‘it’s got nothing to do with me’.
Therefore, he’d thought himself quite clever saying that Georgie had been affected by a cursed rune and just letting him work with female [Miner] teams. Because Georgie was…no, wait, he wasn’t, and that was the point…
At some point, someone could use ‘woman’ and ‘Georgie’ in the same sentence and not need to duck. The problem was that Ilvriss was wrong, and how wrong he was needed to be spelt out.
Forewoman Gerra Runefur was that speller. She was a Salazsarian Gnoll—no Plains Gnoll—with the accent of the City of Gems, all the familiarity for the work, and who ran a tight ship. Ilvriss knew her from the Gemscale company; she was forty-two, had one child, had married a member of the corporate staff who worked on Level 11 of his tower—not high level, but a decent [Office Manager] himself, Level 21—and Gerra was a Level 32 [Gemfinder Forewoman]. Nothing special, but she’d never had issues keeping order with her mixed Gnoll-Drake crew of women.
It wasn’t mandatory to have single-gender teams, but sometimes it was preferable. The same gender could bathe and work together. It prevented issues of harassment. It was just an option…and right now, it was not working.
Hence her complaints, which had escalated until they got to Ilvriss. The Forewoman didn’t slam a fist on Ilvriss’ desk. She was very polite as she held her cap behind her back, but her voice was all stress, and Ilvriss recognized it.
“Wall Lord, we cannot have Miner Georgie working with our team.”
“If Georgie’s an issue, Forewoman, I can reassign h—them to another—”
“No, Wall Lord, I am representing all the female mining teams. He’s been moved to six teams, and mine has had him for the last four days. None of them will take him. With great respect, Wall Lord, we will strike and call off work if we have to work with Georgie. I don’t want to make this a huge issue, and I understand there are—problems—around Georgie, but this is not the solution. Sir.”
Ilvriss blinked at Gerra. He sat back in his chair, his enthusiasm for his job ebbing in his veins. He sensed what was coming next.
“Can you elaborate on the issue, Forewoman?”
She took a breath, and he realized he’d walked into that one. Gerra reported with a loud, overly-polite tone of voice that overrode all attempts to shut her down or break in.
“Georgie is…an average [Miner]. No, I take it back, he’s a pain in the tail for even average [Miners] because he’s used to Advance Miner work, but he’s higher-level than I am, so he deserves that, I suppose.”
“I believe it’s she, Forewoman—”
Welsca was drowned out as the Gnoll raised her voice.
“He’s just your average [Miner] in many respects, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Which means that he’s not ruder than most, not more of a lech or hassle—you bark at him and he does his job after complaining. But he’s a [Miner] in my team. Who I understand is cursed or…”
“Terribly cursed, Forewoman.”
“It’s an accidental enchantment caused by—”
“Wall Lord, he’s still a damn Drake, and he looks! He wanders into our changing rooms as we’re undressing, and it’s gotten so damn bad we’re hanging towels up!”
“But Georgie’s—”
“Wall Lord, have you ever seen someone ogle someone else? I’m sure you have, sir—Georgie ogles. He observes. He enjoys watching us nude. If you don’t think I’m being accurate or reasonable, as several of my superiors have, I invite you to strip to your waist and I can show you exactly how that feels.”
She gave Ilvriss a look at his own chest and several parts of his body, including his tail, which he felt was quite inappropriate. Ilvriss crossed his arms over his chest.
“I can understand that, but Georgie, right now, has a woman’s—”
“He’s nearly gotten beaten to death for slapping my [Miners] on the ass. He’s a classic idiot, Wall Lord. Yesterday, we ran into a tough seam. Nothing we couldn’t crack, but he shoved my own lead miner aside and told her, and I quote, ‘stay back and let a real man handle this’. If my team doesn’t murder him by tomorrow, it’ll be because someone’s shoved him into a wall and gotten him stuck there.”
Ilvriss’ mouth opened. But it was Georgie! Who—according to Ilvriss, was a man despite any bodily appearances, but—
“So you’re saying Georgie’s not fitting in, that the team cannot work with him, and for his morale, and yours, he should be reassigned to mixed-gender teams, Forewoman?”
He tried to clarify, and even here was his mistake. Forewoman Gerra gave Ilvriss a dark gaze.
“Oh, no, he was all complaints until he spent an hour on the job, Wall Lord. Now he loves it here. Incidentally, Wall Lord, my superiors have not been markedly understanding of the situation. I hope you are.”
“I am, Forewoman Gerra, and I appreciate your forbearance. Welsca brought this issue to my attention.”
Gerra gave Welsca a nod and half-smile, and both turned to Ilvriss. Gerra gave Ilvriss a very respectful nod, as someone who’d worked her entire career for his company would at the new, relatively young boss who was doing a good job.
“Thank you, Wall Lord. And just so we are clear, if he is not removed from my shift by the end of today, my entire team and I will be submitting sexual harassment claims in accordance with company policy.”
All one hundred and twelve of them. Ilvriss swallowed and decided the enchanted artifacts could wait a second.
 
——
 
Georgie was having a great time, despite knowing that in a broader sense, his life was over. True, most mining teams weren’t filled with Drakes or Gnolls who took the time to do makeup or look their best.
But nevertheless, having that many ladies around was not a bad thing. He took the well-chewed cigar out of his mouth and called out to a female Drake cursing and shoving a wheelbarrow with a slightly-busted front wheel up the tunnel they were enlarging. Some kind of digging project to breach the undead tunnels.
If he never saw another damn undead, he’d be happy. He still had nightmares, but he’d lived. Stupid to make that rookie mistake, but he’d collapsed the cave like he’d heard had once worked and made it out. Now he was still dead because of that damn [Healer], but—
“Hey, Andrasite, you want a hand with that? Just let me know if you want a real man to help you out.”
The mining team had already had enough two days ago. At this, Andrasite dropped the wheelbarrow filled with dirt and stones.
“You want to help out, Georgie? Be my guest.”
To her utter annoyance, Georgie sauntered over, lifted the wheelbarrow with one hand, and began to push it.
“So what’re you doing tonight? Ain’t like there’s much to do in this Human cowturd of a place. Want someone to show you a good time?”
Andrasite rolled her eyes. She tried to stomp ahead, and Georgie shoved the wheelbarrow faster, keeping up with her fast walk. He was, annoyingly, strong and Level 30+—which was double the average level of Gerra’s work team. Most had levelled since coming to the Cowpat Plains, but Level 30 was still Level 30. The Drakes and Gnolls tried to ignore Georgie.
He, for his part, tried to keep the relaxed smile on his face as he heaved the wheelbarrow, which was quite heavy, up the sloping tunnel.
Argh, Ancestors, my arm is going to fall off! But anything to impress the younger Drake. She gave him a sneer.
“I’ve got a boyfriend, Georgie.”
“Who? I haven’t seen him around. Some limp-tailed loser who can’t even pick you up after your shift? C’mon, I’m right here, and I’m Level 36! You ever met someone higher level than me? You won’t wanna go back after that.”
He thought he was onto something with Andrasite until she turned and smirked.
“You and what equipment, Georgie? I heard you were having trouble with that?”
His face went flat. And Georgie’s stomach abruptly twisted as laughter came from around him. He let go of the wheelbarrow and massaged his shoulder.
They knew. Regardless of what that damn Wall Lord had tried to claim—no, it just made it worse, them thinking he’d actually been transformed. Georgie managed after a second—
“All I need is this, Andrasite.”
He waggled two claws at her and stuck his tongue between his claws in a suggestive way. She made a face.
“Ugh. Do you actually think that’s attractive?”
“Bet you’ve never met anyone who even knows how to use their tongue, let alone claws. I’ll have you late for your next shift, babe.”
He leaned against the wheelbarrow to prevent it rolling down. Andrasite hesitated despite the jeers and snorts coming from around her.
“But you literally don’t even have—right?”
“Hey, I’ve got ways. No one’s ever complained after a night with yours truly. How about it?”
He winked at her, and if there was a truth stone on Georgie, it would have probably exploded from that one. The truth was that Georgie had sustained numerous complaints from partners over the years.
Partly, because he’d not known what the hell he was doing and assumed that good sex was proportional to how fast and hard you could move in the act. Which did not win you applause and sometimes got you disqualified before even reaching the finish line.
Second, because Georgie did have some issues in the traditional equipment sense. He didn’t like to think about it. He did have a…phallus. He kept it under his bed in a lockbox, and if anyone ever found it or asked what that was about he’d just kill everyone before explaining.
The problem was, if you brought that out to a lovely lady, she had questions. So Georgie’s move until now had been to find someone who was into him, and then get to the point where both agreed it was time to jump each other. Then get some drinks to smooth over any inconsistencies for both sides.
His second escape during any questioning that arose was to claim that a Creler had once bitten his dick off. And Georgie didn’t want to hear anyone but the ladies of his acquaintanceship complain.
It was his damn life, and he was working with the hand he’d been dealt. He hadn’t been born some rich Wall Lord sitting on a pile of gold in their towers. He was a working man, and now that he’d been found out…
I never should have picked that damn pickaxe up. Idiot, idiot—what was he going to do? He’d already been blacklisted from all the other reputable companies in Salazsar. Leave for a smaller Drake city? What did he do?
Georgie didn’t know, so he flirted. He thought Andrasite might actually bite, despite her mockery, when there was a shout.
“Administrators inspecting! Sharpen up!”
“Ah, shit in my bag of holding. Who is it now?”
Forewoman Gerra was back, that complaining Bagrhaven. Georgie began to haul the wheelbarrow up, swearing, as Andrasite made herself scarce. He was shoving it up the tunnel when the clomp of boots and voices made him peek up.
And there was Wall Lord Ilvriss, his hot secretary, and Forewoman Gerra. Georgie bit down hard on his chewed cigar as Ilvriss glanced at him.
“Miner Georgie, I’d like a word, if I may?”
“Busy working, Wall Lord.”
Georgie tried, but Welsca snapped.
“You’re reporting to the Wall Lord, Miner! You’re off-shift until he’s finished. Forewoman Gerra?”
“Thank you, Adjutant. Alright, everyone, back to work! No more distractions—I want [126% Effort!]”
Georgie’s heart sank as the shaft echoed with cheers and shouts. He straightened and gave the female [Miners] around him a betrayed look.
“Ancestors damnit—you’d think they’d be grateful for having a fellow around doin’ all the hard work. I’ve been humping dirt and taking on the hardest jobs and not a single tail raised even an inch off the ground. Women, am I right, Wall Lord?”
He turned to get confirmation or a grunt from the Wall Lord, and Ilvriss stared at Georgie with the most confused expression on his face—Georgie hesitated, then averted his gaze. So the Wall Lord didn’t get what he was, but he wasn’t having Georgie strung up or run out. Was that something?
Damnit. Georgie didn’t know what he was, but it wasn’t his fault. He just wanted to be—a regular fellow. Unfortunately, fate had other plans for him, and so did the Wall Lord. He seemed to think Georgie was his pet project.
 
——
 
It was weird to Ilvriss because Georgie was not a…okay, he was a pain in the tail. He was rude, ready to brawl, lazy when he knew he could get away with it, and he’d tried to steal the first chance he got.
Ilvriss had sort of thought he’d be different than…well, a slightly-below-average [Miner]. He was a woman. In body? Form alone? At birth but had been subjected to a gender-transformation potion?
Ancestors, it hurt Ilvriss’ head, but he tried! He pulled Georgie aside and had a word with the Drake.
“Miner Georgie, you make Forewoman Gerra’s team uncomfortable.”
“What? I’m extra respectful to them, Wall Lord. I don’t throw fists or nothin’.”
“You’ve been leering, according to Forewoman Gerra and the complaints I’ve gotten.”
“Well, what kind of fellow doesn’t leer when they’re changing around you? Am I blind?”
In a sense, it was Ilvriss’ fault. He had prefaced Georgie’s predicament by claiming he was now a woman. And it seemed that he’d been trusted on that. Georgie kept staring at something only he could see.
“Can’t them [Mages] do magic pictures of memories? I swear, it was worth getting buried alive and nearly having my head ripped off. All that jiggling…”
His claws made grasping motions, and Ilvriss resisted the urge to smack Georgie on the head. He was a victim of his own greed and unfortunate circumstances…
“I’m going to assign you to another team, Georgie, and given the, ah, issues, I’ll have you report to me for any further problems. It should hopefully not be arduous, but voice your complaints to me, and any interpersonal dilemmas. Understand?”
At this, Georgie stopped leering and glanced at Ilvriss and Welsca. Then he lost his smile.
“You think it’s all gonna get swept under the rug, Wall Lord? I’d rather you paid out my contract.”
“You’re a witness to events I’d like to keep private, Georgie. And if I did pay off your contact, would that end the matter?”
Georgie peered around the dig site as he put his hands in his pockets. Then his head lowered, and he stared at his boots.
“No.”
“Then let me try to help. Agreed?”
The [Miner] said nothing. But that was how Ilvriss began the odd conversations he had with Miner Georgie. He rather hoped it would be a small issue. Unfortunately, he was beginning to know Georgie.
 
——
 
On the first day of being reassigned, within two hours of reporting to Dig Team Oxynite, Ilvriss decided to monitor Georgie’s break. Not everyone knew about his situation, just that he was an Advance Miner. The Wall Lord activated his Ring of Invisibility only to find Georgie had integrated with the team.
At least some of them. The mixed-gender mining team was your old rough-and-tumble group. Veteran [Miners] who ranged from late twenties to fifties, ready to swing a fist at anyone who said the wrong thing if they were working.
And—right now—teaching a lesson to some of Riverfarm’s Humans, who they didn’t care for. Because they were Humans? Or northerners? Or just rookies?
“Hold ‘em still! You don’t pull your weight, you get your skin dyed!”
A laughing group of nine, all Drakes and Gnolls, were about to dunk a young man headfirst in a bucket of charcoal water. It’d color your skin or scales like ink, and a wet Gnoll with blackened fur and another Drake and Human half-glaring at the group were signs of the hazing ritual.
Georgie was laughing and holding onto a kicking leg when Wall Lord Ilvriss appeared, arms folded. The Advance Miner stopped, took his cigar out of his mouth, and let go of the young man as the rest of the [Miners] turned. Ilvriss sighed.
 
——
 
Incident two occurred as Georgie’s mining team was coming off shift. That same day. The tradition was for the [Forepeople] of each team to report their take.
It wasn’t all about who’d dug up what. Only a fool thought one team digging more gemstones up mattered; if you were assigned to a bad seam, what could you do?
It was instead about how much you’d dug. How many tough pockets you’d had to clear—if you’d run into a monster nest, all kinds of stuff. And it wasn’t all competition, but there was some satisfaction to Foreman Rolx of Oxynite strolling over and dumping a sample of ore down in a pile.
“Oxynite, 84 buckets of loose stone deposit. 122 feet straight down and nothing.”
Not much, really. Loose stone deposit was all bits and tiny gemstones or dust that someone would sift through for valuables. Barely worth the effort. It was a shit take, and Georgie would have been nervous if he was in a traditional company in Salazsar. Too many days like that and your entire mining project might get canned for lack of value.
However, here it was fine. They were digging down, still searching for something else besides the teams assigned to mining around the undead. Georgie was tired and sweat-soaked. It was a hot damn day of work, and he wanted to use the new showers he’d heard they’d installed.
And toilets—the ladies had refused to let him use more than buckets from their damn cubicles. As if he’d steal their underwear. You got that as a trophy, and you tucked it into your belt so the lads knew you’d scored a motherlode the next day. Like a proper Drake.
Anyways, the point was the other teams were reporting numbers.
“80 feet. Hard clay.”
That came from a Human to a few jeers—from Georgie especially loudly—but he shut up when Rolx glared at him. The bastard was not shy about throwing a fist around, but the new team was Humans. From Liscor! Or Invrisil or something—
It wasn’t that bad for newcomers a few days on the job, actually. If the clay sucked it sucked. But Georgie kept jeering until a huge damn Silverfang appeared.
“Miner Thamert, of Silverfangs. We report 214 feet dug. Mostly limestone with some coal.”
He casually dumped a black bucket on the pile, proof of said coal. Georgie nearly inhaled his cigar.
That deep on top of stone and other deposits they had to harvest? He began to mutter.
“Gotta be bullshit. I reckon they’re just trying to look good. How do a bunch of Plains Gnolls know how to dig better’n us?”
He got several nods from other Salazsarian [Miners], but someone hissed.
“That’s an Ekhtouch Gnoll. You see him swinging that pickaxe? I heard he cracked the entire limestone seam after winding up for twenty minutes! Just hit it and it all turned into gravel!”
Ancestors, really? The Silverfang marched back, and Georgie swallowed another comment. Then came a team he knew well.
“Rolx. 33 feet. Nothing to report.”
A broad-chested Drake walked forwards, dumped no bucket down, and seemed very disinterested in showing off. He nodded to the other [Foremen], who said not a word, and Georgie ground his cigar down in his teeth. No one said anything—until he did.
“Thirty-three feet? What were they doing, yanking their tails in one hand and pissing with the other? Why do we have to share shift-pay with this lot?”
He called out, and the Drake who was walking back into line turned his head. He and his team didn’t appear as dirty as Georgie’s group. Nor had they dug even half of what Georgie’s team had!
But they were sort of big, which is why no one had commented hither-to, and the administrators didn’t care, even if they could see the results. Georgie pointed.
“It’s always Rolx and Oblest and Canera—lazy bastards. You don’t get anywhere while we’re doing all the digging!”
“Hey, someone’s got to sort through all the shit your team misses!”
One of the Gnolls fired back, but one of the [Administrators] barked.
“That’s enough! Let’s muster out and get back to camp. Eyes on a swivel for those damn [Ranchers]!”
Each mining team’s leader began to shout orders, but Georgie was fed up, and from the muttering, he wasn’t the only one.
“Just so long as they get half-pay. I’m not busting my tail to let my bonus slip away to some weak-armed Hatchlings who can’t even lift a shovel!”
At that, there were a lot of loud murmurs in agreement. Everyone from the Silverfangs to the Humans to the all-female teams—you got paid for exemplary work, and these idiots didn’t work. Georgie saw the leader of Rolx’s team square his shoulders, then bark back.
“That’s enough. Muster out!”
“Eager to get to your bed? You didn’t earn it!”
That came from Andrasite, Georgie swore. Someone tossed a clod of dirt, and it hit one of the lazy miners in the helmet. There was a growl.
“Break it up! Everyone get moving!”
The [Administrator] saw the trouble and tried to head it off, but it was too late. The angry, annoyed miners began shoving upwards, out of the dig site, but one got too close to the Rolx team. They shoved past the angry miners and nearly sent a group of four sprawling. When the enraged quartet shoved the lazy [Miner] so hard he crashed into his buddies, there were shouts, people falling—then someone nailed someone else with a stone.
More objects flew, and the mining team captains began to shout and use Skills—then saw fists raise. They backed up. Then the first person threw a punch. Georgie wasn’t that person.
He threw the sixth punch and clocked the leader of the Rolx team in the jaw—and broke his jaw. Georgie was swearing and holding his fist, which felt like it was broken itself, when the enraged Drake rose, covering his face, and George realized the other Drake had a head on the slim [Miner]—and over a hundred pounds.
Ancestors, he’s ripped for a shitass min—
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was standing over Georgie when the Drake woke up and stared cross-eyed at the ceiling. He had his head in his hands.
“How many injuries?”
“Er…less than if the [Ranchers] attacked, Wall Lord?”
“How many teams are off rotation tomorrow?”
“Only—six, sir?”
Uh oh. Georgie tried to pretend to be asleep, but Wall Lord Ilvriss had noticed him waking up. The Wall Lord leaned over.
“Miner Georgie, do you have anything to say for yourself? I’m told you broke one of my Foremen’s jaws.”
“They started it, sir.”
Georgie lied like he breathed. Ilvriss stared down at him. He straightened.
“Your pay will be docked pending a full investigation, Miner Georgie. Along with everyone else who instigated the fights. Welsca, note the incident down on file. Don’t list it as a serious incident, but I want accountability.”
Shit. Georgie sagged as Ilvriss spun on his heel and turned. It wouldn’t be the worst incident on his record, but that kind of thing added up, and he had a history—
Who was he kidding, he wasn’t working for Gemscale after this. And he probably had to leave—he heard the Wall Lord departing after some more talking. The man whose jaw Georgie had broken was lying in a cot at the far end of the [Healer]’s tent, and that did not make Georgie feel better.
Bastard had laid him out in three punches. If he wanted vengeance—Georgie decided he’d be careful when taking a piss or eating. Though he was always careful about some things. He tried to get some sleep as he lay back in bed.
Just another day in the life of Miner Georgie, who didn’t really have many friends, prospects, or a future in this world. He closed his eyes.
Georgie was nodding off when he felt the pillow go over his face. But contrary to what people might believe, a pillow didn’t exactly choke you if applied to your face, just made it harder to breathe. Plus—he tore it off.
“Hey, who the h—”
That was when his unknown assailant dropped the pillow, put two claws around Georgie’s throat, and began to strangle him. He kicked, thrashing, but the attacker had the advantage of height and surprise and—
 
——
 
It was late, and Damia’s Skill had worn off on Ilvriss. He was nursing his own bruises; another [Rancher] clan had paid him a visit that evening, and while he’d clocked someone leading the lot hard in the face, he’d eaten a full kick that had torn his scales up.
Miner Georgie had been a pain in his scales three times today, and so his name was the last one Ilvriss wanted to hear. When he heard it again, he actually hissed.
“If that idiot’s molesting the [Healer], I want him fired and shipped back to Salazsar in a—”
“Sir, someone tried to kill him just now.”
Ilvriss stopped hissing. He rose to his feet.
“You’re sure?”
 
——
 
The Drake who’d saved Georgie from being asphyxiated was Miner Team Leader Maiss. Of Team Rolx. A Drake whom Ilvriss knew, though that was not the issue at hand here.
His jaw was still broken and on the mend, and Ilvriss winced; the [Healer] had done her best to set it, but it might not have gone completely right without a healing potion; it appeared distinctly swollen or like his chin was a bit too forwards. Maybe he should assign a healing potion, but they weren’t supposed to have them, despite the inn gifting Ilvriss some for his officers…no, wait, those healing scrolls. He needed to buy some but pretend he hated Antinium. Next time he was in Liscor.
“Team Leader Maiss, report?”
Maiss struggled to talk.
“Saw someone try to put a pillow over his face, sir. Thought it was just annoyance until he started strangling. Stopped it.”
“How?”
“Broke his arm, sir, and gave him an introduction to my knee.”
That…would do it. Maiss was a big Drake, and Ilvriss was impressed. No ‘mysterious assailant’ running off here.
“Good work, Team Leader Maiss. Get some rest.”
“Sir.”
He saluted Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord turned.
“Who tried to kill Georgie? One of the teams he insulted?”
Welsca checked her notes, and she was uncomfortable, now.
“No, Wall Lord. It’s a Junior Mining Inspector Lacambt, sir. One of Dramm’s subordinates. When questioned, he just stated that he was doing the right thing, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss’ heart sank. He felt a shadow pass over him, despite the late hour, and saw Xesci’s gaze in the reflection from Welsca’s spectacles.
“Wall Lord Dramm’s apologized for his subordinate’s assault and requested leniency, sir.”
“I imagine he has.”
“So have five other leaders, from [Foremen] to administrators.”
A longer silence, then. Ilvriss inhaled, then spoke.
“…[Miners] brawl all the time, Welsca. This was an unfortunate brawl, but we’ve had idiots start multiple and kept them, albeit with discipline. Murdering another [Miner]? Unless it’s some kind of jilted lover, someone getting the other person killed, or feud, it doesn’t happen. We are the Gemscale Company, and we tolerate no speciesism, no hostile work environment, no pettiness.”
“Yes, Wall Lord. With respect, Wall Lord, that’s not the issue at hand.”
He knew that. But Welsca was changing too, because she pointed it out so frankly. Ilvriss met her eyes, then glanced down at his table.
“Put Georgie in a separate tent and post a guard. Have Lacambt on trial for attempted murder.”
“Are you sure, sir?”
“He tried to strangle Georgie.”
Was that not obvious? Ilvriss’ incensed gaze at Welca didn’t provoke an expression of shame, because she reminded him of something he’d recently learned.
“Yes, Wall Lord. I’m not denying that. I’m just pointing out that Lacambt may have not been acting solely on his own, Wall Lord.”
A longer silence, then, as Ilvriss met her eyes, and he didn’t need anything else spelled out. He rubbed at his face again.
“I wish I had a drink. Don’t get me one. Just…begin asking around, discreetly. Make sure that guard is secure. And—and move Miner Georgie off his current team. Have him assigned to Advance Miner work again once he recovers. But report him to me and Major Shellc for the anti-undead operations.”
“Yes, sir.”
Fortunately or unfortunately, being strangled by an amateur did less damage than getting punched out in a brawl. Georgie was fit for work tomorrow morning, and that was how Ilvriss found himself in the company of a Turnscale, which was one thing.
But also one of the most annoying Advance Miners he’d ever met, which Ilvriss decided mattered a lot more.
 
——
 
When you got down to it, what was a Wall Lord? Useful? For his Skills, certainly. For the money he provided, of course, a necessity given Salazsar’s commercial systems. But when the hammers and pickaxes were going, where should he be?
In a tower, ‘leading’ people and waiting for the profits to come in? Most of Ilvriss’ peers operated that way. They set huge initiatives in concurrence with their trusted [Administrators] and staff, used their Skills, and just…raked in the gold.
When you got down to it, the truth was—Ilvriss knew he was like the nobles of the north in many ways. He was not the one crushing stones. What good was he at this dig site? The fact that he had left so often to visit the inn was proof he wasn’t essential. However, that morning, he took a walk around the town of Thirthoof, his dig site, and just—was the Lord of the Walls of the Gemscale company.
With Georgie and Damia. The former because it was necessary for Georgie’s safety and because Ilvriss had to do something—the latter because she had earned it and you had to have fun in life.
But Georgie…he seemed subdued after his near-death experience. Shaken, pale as he strode over in a grimy, sleeveless undershirt and trousers. Ilvriss saw Welsca glaring, but he leaned over.
“That’s how most [Miners] attire themselves, Welsca. I’d like some privacy today, please. It’s going to be just inspections.”
That meant only his [Bodyguards] and fewer staff. Given his company, Welsca nodded. She followed of course, and Georgie actually threw a salute. A bad one, but he touched his helmet.
“What’s my job today, Wall Lord? I’m ready to go.”
“For now, you’re accompanying me around the dig sites, Georgie. We need to talk. Plus, Major Shellc is still trying to corral the undead that attacked you. We need those damned mines clear.”
Georgie’s eyes flickered as he nodded and took a breath.
“Bastards are tunneling around a lot, right? I hate that. That’s real Advance Miner sh—stuff. Chasing them down and not getting close before the monsters jump you. And the [Soldiers] are always too damn slow.”
See, that interested Ilvriss and Lady Damia, who had come out in a full dress with a low cut blouse—he glanced sideways as Georgie stopped and stared at Damia’s chest.
“Not appropriate, Lady Damia.”
“I, uh—I’m so sorry—”
“We might be entering the mines. Protective clothing on everyone, please. I should have mentioned.”
He had on his regular clothing, but he had rings, and they were good enough to fight in. Damia dashed off and came back two minutes later, in an amazing display of speed-dressing, to Ilvriss and Georgie…talking.
“You actually had to participate in an anti-Creler operation? The Razzmetal mines? I heard about that. Forty days, right?”
Georgie grimaced around his worn cigar.
“Thirty-nine, and they only called me in for eighteen. Little bastards kept digging.”
“Didn’t it set a record for most Advance Miner injuries this century? I thought it was incompetence, but Alrric speculated it was just…nasty.”
“Yup. See, the thing all those stupid administrators don’t get is that even if we’ve got Rubirel Guard ‘at our tails’, they’re always standing up the mine shaft. Can’t get too close in case we cave in. They ain’t got the reflexes to dodge, and we need space to move. I don’t care if one of ‘em’s got [Lightning Interception]. They’re still slow. When the monster decides to come at you, it just takes one swing. Then you dodge or it’s got you.”
“Did you run into the Crelers?”
Georgie flexed a bicep.
“Sure did. We got to the point where we’d just go fifteen feet, listen, and go fifteen feet again. Then we drew lots, and one bugger had to keep minin’.”
“Why? Ah—”
Damia leapt into the conversation, though her eager voice became subdued.
“Wait, isn’t that because the Crelers would flee a large number of bodies? So if they thought they could kill one and they were hungry—oh.”
The Advance Miner wore the same expression as soldiers. That too-calm expression of a man who’d seen death. He spat on the ground.
“Yep. No fancy spells, no high-grade magic. Just a rope to haul them up, healing potions if the Crelers were on them, and waiting. We had to do it or they’d keep digging. That’s why we’re Advance Miners. And that’s why you haven’t caught the undead, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss’ head turned sharply.
“The [Miners] and Shellc have been coordinating and cutting off some of them—”
“But they’re always letting the other ones get away, right? It’s ‘cause the dig teams are scared.”
That was Georgie’s theory, and Ilvriss’ head snapped forward.
“If they’re hesitating to breach or dig fast because of monsters—to Dig Site B, then.”
Damia eyed Georgie sidelong. She knew Georgie as well—mostly from the complaints about him. But her instincts told her he was significant in some way. She’d had Binevy ask around, and no one had wanted to say outright what they thought the problem with Georgie was. Rumors about a magical artifact? Everyone knew something, but what?
Ilvriss himself was reminded of something he’d forgotten: Georgie was an Advance Miner, and a veteran one. Crudeness and Turnscale issues aside, he knew this job. The Wall Lord had high hopes for the day, which diminished after he heard a faint thwap and a shout.
He turned just in time to see Georgie turn and give Damia a tail-slap on her rear end. She turned and slapped him—and Ilvriss exhaled.
Okay then.
 
——
 
As he knew he was a dead Drake walking, now, Georgie had been hoping the Wall Lord would just send him back to Salazsar with a terminated clause. Even if he was fired, that would give him some lead time unless they sent him to the sanatorium.
So yes, the butt-slap on the [Lady] had been calculated. The [Adjutant] was about to chew him out and write Georgie up when the Wall Lord did something unexpected.
“Give me five minutes. Lady Damia, I apologize—Georgie, one side.”
He stepped to the side with Georgie, not actually out of earshot, and the [Miner] braced. He could see the other Drakes and Humans accompanying Ilvriss watching him and pretending not to. This would be the moment when the Wall Lord threw a punch or the [Miner Leader] sorted you out. Then you got back to work.
“Sir?”
He braced, trembling a bit because he knew he couldn’t punch the Wall Lord—that was another kind of death sentence. But Ilvriss just exhaled hard.
“That kind of conduct is unacceptable in the Gemscale corporation, Advance Miner Georgie. You know that.”
Instantly, Georgie relaxed and felt a bit contemptuous. No punch, which meant the Wall Lord was one of those soft ‘lead from behind’ types who sat in their towers all day. The ones who just lectured you. He glanced at Damia.
“Sure thing, Wall Lord. Won’t happen again. She’s just a H—”
Ilvriss reached out and grabbed Georgie’s shoulder. Hard. Georgie jerked, and Ilvriss dragged him over.
“Finish that sentence, Georgie, or do that again in my presence and I will ship you back to Salazsar and blacklist you across the entire Walled City. I am trying to help you. Why did you do that?”
His aura was pressing down on Georgie hard, like heavy gemstones, and Georgie hesitated. Swallowed as he glanced down at his boots and shoved his hands in his pockets.
“I—look, it’s just the kind of thing you do, Wall Lord.”
“Harass women?”
“I—sure? It’s just how miners do things.”
“Not all [Miners], and not in my company, Georgie. Your conduct has been inexcusable and deliberate. You know treating other Drakes and Gnolls like that is inappropriate. What I want to know is why. I’ve read your record. Plenty of indictments for insubordination, fighting—and you know what? It’s pretty standard for an Advance Miner.”
“I’m s—what?”
That threw the Drake. He finally looked up, and Ilvriss raised his brows.
“All Advance Miners fight with their supervisors and each other. And brawl. It’s not the standard we hold regular [Miners] to, but you risk your lives. It’s like Gold-rankers. We have an internal system in the Gemscale company where we weigh your negative records against how many times you’ve been in a life-or-death encounter and how you performed there. Alrric does it; it’s some kind of mathematical calculation. You passed it. Until recently, you weren’t exactly ideal, and your attempted theft of company property was a problem, but the sexual harassment claims weren’t high at all. Three over an entire lifetime of work. Something changed. What?”
Georgie squirmed as he glanced at Ilvriss’ boots, then up at the Drake. Fuck, this wasn’t his usual dressing down. It felt more like a conversation. He snapped back.
“What’s there to say, Wall Lord? It’s not like I’ve got any future now that I’m cursed. You had me on theft—then you tossed me in a mining team full of women!”
“And?”
“And I’m a man, not someone who’ll wear a female uniform or be one of the girls. I reminded them of that, didn’t I?”
Georgie hissed back, and now Ilvriss blinked. He peered at Georgie, then glanced at Welsca. Backed down his aura and exhaled.
“Is that what this is about? Are you trying to get fired?”
“I’m already fired. Someone gets drubbed down for theft and they’re already on the way out.”
Ilvriss scratched at his chin-scales.
“You’re an Advance Miner who breached a high-level monster site. And the artifacts you found have been nearly stolen by multiple members of my company. It even triggered Hoarding impulses in me. I wouldn’t hold that against you entirely, though I would have you watched.”
He was being too reasonable. Georgie was mad and trembling with it. He chewed on his cigar.
“Then the other reason’s enough.”
Again, Ilvriss hesitated, and Georgie stared at him. He knew Georgie was a Turnsc—that thing. Georgie didn’t even like thinking the word himself. It was bad. Terrible. So why was the Wall Lord so off?
They said he employed a [Courtesan], that he had an affair with a Human in the north and tried to marry her. They used to say he was one of Salazsar’s glittering boys, an exemplar Wall Lord. But Gnolls always liked him because he employed them and then—
Who was this Drake? Ilvriss was thinking, as if asking himself that very question.
“That…matter is one of great concern, Georgie. I do not want you to be put in further danger, and I understand if I let you go, there will be concerns.”
I’ll have to flee the city fast as I can. The companies’ll probably have me blacklisted, and I bet someone’ll call into the Watch to haul me to the sanatorium. You don’t get out of there. Georgie took a shuddering breath.
“Could be. But hey, if you paid me out my contract, I could, uh, just go. Plenty of work for a [Miner] in the north, right?”
The Wall Lord looked him over again.
“You’d rather walk into Human territory—this territory with the [Ranchers] about—than go back to Salazsar?”
“Well, yeah.”
This time, Georgie met Ilvriss’ topaz colored eyes, and he thought the Wall Lord understood. A bit more, and he’d already been close to the truth. But like a man chipping away at a glittering gemstone buried in stone, another piece fell away. Ilvriss exhaled.
“I see. If we can’t resolve this, I’ll arrange for you to be paid out and dropped off in Invrisil.”
That—might actually work. There were Drakes there, and if he used his papers, he might get through Pallass or just go to Liscor. The sense of doom hanging over Georgie’s head lightened. He actually smiled.
—Right before Ilvriss took him by the shoulder.
“Now, back to your behavior. No more of that.”
“Oh, come on, Wall Lord. That’s how the ladies like it.”
The Wall Lord’s look made Georgie splutter.
“I’m not joking! You know how it is. Sure, half the [Miners]’ll belt you in the face, especially if they’ve got someone, and the other half ignores you. But that leaves, like…a fifth who’ll listen. They go for a man who talks loud or who does what we’re all thinking.”
“Your math is as atrocious as a certain [Witch]’s fashion sense, Georgie. That is not how you establish a romantic relationship with people.”
The two Drakes argued, and Georgie snorted. He hadn’t actually had a conversation with another Drake or Gnoll about, well, romance. It felt odd. So, almost eagerly, he challenged the Wall Lord, jutting out his chin.
“Okay, how does it work for you? I bet having gold and being a Wall Lord makes it so much easier.”
For a moment, he saw Ilvriss drawing breath, flushing slightly under his scales, and then the Wall Lord hesitated. Exhaled.
“I won’t deny…I had the same attitude as a younger man, Georgie. Showing off, boasting, it does have its appeal, and it does sometimes work. But the woman I fell in love with didn’t get to know me because of any of that. Actually, she requested a transfer from my command after—for every person you win over, you’ll alienate ten more from your behavior. And, with due respect to said individuals, the women who appreciate being nonconsensually slapped on the rear are not the partners I’d choose for life.”
To this fairly reasonable statement, Georgie shrugged.
“I know that. I’m just down for a quick—y’know. I’ll settle down with someone who’s actually decent later. Someone who appreciates a good fellow and doesn’t want me acting out.”
That was just a dream. Just a dream, but he talked like it was a reality. Like he was any other fellow—but Ilvriss was simply frowning at Georgie.
“There’s an error in your logic, Georgie.”
“Just one?”
“Hah. Listen, I get that mentality. Be young, fool around. Some people never leave it. I have a friend, Wall Lord Brilm—he’s married and has a kid, and he’s been divorced because he keeps doing what you’re doing. Let’s say you can quit, though. Here’s a question P—someone asked me once. What happens to the women you’re talking about? The ones who’d never make good life partners?”
“…Huh?”
Ilvriss was walking and talking with Georgie now, towards Dig Site B since it was a ways.
“I’ve had to deal with female employees who have been accused of being licentious as well. Not in those exact words. It’s a bad idea to enforce a no-relationships policy in the company, but the flipside is all these issues. But you know, I’ve heard the exact same things come out of their mouths. They’re just having fun—in ten years, they’ll find a fellow who doesn’t mouth off or cast eyes at every passing tail. In time, it seems no one thinks that kind of behavior is ideal in a life partner. Brilm aside.”
Georgie had no idea where this conversation was going, so he shrugged.
“So? Seems like everyone agrees, then. We’re having fun.”
“Only, your ‘having fun’ involves quite a lot of people who don’t want to participate in your behavior.”
“Yeah, well…I overdid it because the ladies were full of snark. It’s just me and the boys doing what’s normal, usually.”
“Faking Gnollish howls whenever someone you fancy walks by?”
The Advance Miner had the grace not to deny he did that. Ilvriss wore the pained expression of a Drake who’d done just that.
“Let me put it like this, Georgie. I can’t enforce social behavior outside of the Gemscale company, but I can within my work environment, and that’s why we have codes of conduct. But even outside of it—we don’t have to act like that. We can, but it makes other people uncomfortable. It turns you into someone who’s competing with every other man around you for attention and that often leads to bravado. Fights. It’s not that much fun, especially if you’re not the most handsome or strongest man in the room.”
“…So you want me to not say a word and be one of those respectful, sexless losers who holds doors open for women and hopes they eye him sideways?”
The Wall Lord exhaled.
“No, I’m just saying tone it down and the entire room takes it down. Let me give you an example. There’s always someone like that in a group of friends. Brilm. It’s always Brilm walking over, asking someone what color their underwear is, making comments that are wholly inappropriate. And if you think you’re bad, you’ve never seen a drunk Wall Lord.”
“I just slapped that [Lady] on the rear. How bad could—”
“You’ve never tried to strip a [Waitress]’ skirt off in a restaurant.”
Ah. Georgie hesitated, and Ilvriss stared past him.
“At that point, you do drop-kick your friend. Or let the Watch sort it out. But you know, it doesn’t have to get there. If you’re in that moment, and he’s acting out, you just have to pull him aside and say, ‘Brilm, this isn’t funny, knock it off’.”
“Right, I’m sure that works.”
“Mhm. And when he shoves your other friend, Tasilt, off and calls him a limp-tailed loser, you pull him aside and say the same thing. When three people say it, or everyone tells him to shut up or go home? He does that. And he can go off and find other friends or change. It’s called peer pressure, Georgie. It is the act of being made to be uncomfortable when a dozen people around you address the thing you shouldn’t do and you stop.”
“Normally, a [Foreman] just tells me to knock it off or throws a fist.”
Ilvriss walked forwards, shaking his head.
“Right. That’s miner culture, and I don’t do that. Alrric’s part of that old mentality of smacking heads, and I’m not. My father was. I try to address things without needing to punch heads because it doesn’t actually change things.”
Georgie was shifting from foot to foot.
“Look—I know it was wrong. I’ll apologize to the [Lady], Wall Lord. I’ll stop. I’ll even apologize to the women in the mining teams. But you’re not going to change things with this, I dunno, social talking to people thing. That’s not how it works.”
If you had fifteen of the lads all shouting comments and you pulled what Ilvriss was doing? It only worked because he was the Wall Lord. Otherwise, they’d go tell you to get stuffed, and if you insisted, they’d come at you with fists. But Ilvriss just glanced at Georgie, amused.
“Maybe it only works for me, Georgie, but I’d say it has an effect on people.”
“How do you figure that? I haven’t ever been peer-social-pressured or whatever.”
“No? I’m doing it to you right now. Most young men, Gnolls, Drakes, listen when I have this conversation with them. If they keep acting up, it’s a shame and we let them go. We had to hire a lot of new workers because this isn’t a regular operation, but I think I’ll have a few more conversations like this today. I’d like you to be part of them. Or at least, observe.”
Georgie came to a halt, mouth open. Ilvriss strode onwards, and he didn’t insist that Georgie apologize to Damia or hover over his shoulder. But he was watching, Georgie realized.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was not amazing at combat, strategy, or even leadership. He was just…good at all these things. And good enough to know when someone was better than him, like Major Shellc.
The Rhir veteran rebutted Georgie’s claim in some respects. After his conversation with Georgie, Ilvriss caught everyone, including Damia and her people, up to speed on the undead issue. Which had Damia agog.
“A Dorn Pillar?”
“A growing one. It’s mobile. When it gets too big, apparently it turns into said pillar, which is mostly stationary. Bone with holes in it that extrude undead-themed monsters. And it can hypnotize, cast magic—it’s one of the nastiest undead down there because it thinks. Pursuit has been hard, but it’s not just the [Miners], Wall Lord.”
Shellc was pointing to a three-dimensional model of the dig. The mining tunnels that Georgie had found were zig-zagging upwards. Long, almost geometric lines compared to the exploratory shapes dug down. But then it became an anthill of confused tunnels—attempts to dig and attack the undead and keep them from tunnelling outwards.
A damn mess in short. Shellc appeared annoyed, but grimly determined.
“I have no doubt our teams are slow due to fear, Wall Lord, Advance Miner. But the undead are actively avoiding us after we destroyed several of their high-grade members. The moment they hear us, they retreat.”
“Ah. Small wonder they’re eluding us. The Creler problem all over, but I am not minded to send in a sacrificial lamb. Thoughts, anyone? Advance Miner?”
Damia was prodding the side of her head, muttering. Georgie just frowned.
“Are the bastards listening to us? ‘Cause there are Advance Miners with silence Skills.”
“Probably detecting our hearts or just lifeforce. Still, an Advance Miner with stealth Skills…not a bad idea. I’m embarrassed to say that I don’t know much about mining, Wall Lord. I didn’t know that was a thing.”
Shellc frowned. Ilvriss assured him it was, if rare.
“Advance Miners need to avoid monster nests or even buried magics, Major. Let’s say we get the jump on them—”
“We have, three times. The Dorn Pillar will screen itself and run. It’s not fast, but the bastard can send a Crypt Lord in front of us, and getting past it slows us down. By the time we hack apart its escort, it’s gone.”
Hence the problem. Damia lifted a hand.
“What if—what if we put down traps ahead of the Dorn Pillar so it runs into them?”
“You mean we flank it then lay traps? It’s hard enough getting the drop on it once, Lady Damia. No offense, but if I manage to get close to it, I’m ambushing because a flanking maneuver takes too much time, and they are actively mobile. A good thought, but we don’t have dedicated trapsetting experts.”
“We have some auxiliaries…”
“None with dedicated trapping Skills, Wall Lord. Unless the Silverfangs have any, I’d put this as ‘nice, but impractical’.”
The two Drakes exchanged glances as Damia’s head swung between the two, and Georgie frowned. Ilvriss sighed.
“Damnation. I never was a good commander with a varied army. We have some of my staff who can [Deploy Fortification], but it takes fifteen minutes and a few dozen hands, even with the Skill. Battlefield-ready, not for ambushes like an adventurer. We can do magic—”
“The Dorn Pillar senses mana, so it runs the moment a [Mage] gets within two hundred feet of it. There are too many tunnels, Wall Lord, and the more we dig, the easier it is for the undead to slip around us in the passages.”
“You’ve been bracing them, right? The stuff in the weird mining tunnels won’t collapse, but if the tunnels are not braced, you’ll risk a cave-in and everyone dying.”
Georgie put in, and the Rubirel Guard shifted nervously behind him. They could survive even underwater thanks to their helmets, but being buried alive? Their helmets would run out of oxygen, and that was a horror story. Shellc was grimacing further.
“I’ve had numerous [Foremen] shouting that very thing at me, Advance Miner. We’re trying, but as I said, now we have to tunnel, brace it, while the undead are—”
“What if you collapsed the tunnels on purpose?”
A quiet voice, then. Damia Reinhart’s eyes lit up as her thoughts manifested an idea. All the Drakes turned, and Shellc blinked.
“On the Dorn Pillar?”
“It would slow it down, wouldn’t it? Can you perform a controlled collapse? [Geomancers] have trouble, I know, but if you knew where it was running—”
Bury it and get in place while it tries to get out. Shellc’s eyes lit up. Ilvriss spun.
“Excellent idea, Lady Damia! Who has collapsing Skills? Stealth Skills? Welsca, get a list—”
Georgie raised one claw. He had both. And he felt that familiar flutter of fear in his chest, but if Ilvriss meant what he said…
“I could do it. For a big payout. Combat pay and more.”
That might give me a chance to buy my way across the north. He had a way out of here that didn’t get him killed. He just had to risk his life.
Easy. What a relief. He actually grinned, a cocksure smile of someone who was good at his job as the room turned to him. Appraising, nodding, even a hint of respect from Ilvriss.
Lady Damia smiled sweetly at Georgie. Then she grabbed his tail and gave it a squeeze near the base.
He nearly leapt on her before Shellc and Ilvriss dragged him back.
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart held grudges. And she had the counterpoint to Ilvriss’ reasonable conversation about respect and behavior.
If you do it to me, I’ll do it to you. Georgie was furious—but he simmered down once Damia apologized and Ilvriss called in a mediator.
Xesci was always highly amused whenever she was called in to help. She turned to Lady Damia, then Georgie, then to Ilvriss.
“You want me to deal with sexual harassment?”
“I know that’s ironic—”
“No, no, I’m great at it. Do you have any more offending [Miners]? I have a very simple way to deal with it.”
“What is it?”
Georgie was eying Xesci, who was not in her more lascivious forms, with some curiosity. So was Damia. Xesci smirked.
“Your speech on behavior is nice, Ilvriss. I don’t have time for it, so if one of my [Bouncers] thinks he can treat a girl like that—or vice versa—I just remind them it can go all the way around. Lady Damia had the right idea. I’ll just start groping whoever’s doing it.”
“…That seems like it would have the opposite effect on a number of young men, Xesci.”
She gave Ilvriss an amused gaze.
“Would it? If it’s what you’re imagining and I’m being nice and caressing them, it would, Ilvriss. Do you think that’s how it feels to the opposite sex? A slap on the rear when you’re not expecting it isn’t fun. Neither is being fondled. Or being treated like you’re a toy. If I did that to you in front of an entire group and, say, called you a cute little thing while putting a claw on your butthole, what would you do?”
Ilvriss’ face said he regretted asking Xesci instantly. But Georgie jerked back.
“Punch your face in? They’ll kill you.”
“Not if I have leverage. No one’s strong enough when there are six people on you. Well, Named-rankers, but even they find it hard in the right joint-lock. Want me to demonstrate? If one of them harasses my girls, I’ll have them stripped and walked naked back to their tents. And believe me, there will be comments.”
Xesci could be vicious, and Ilvriss winced to imagine how much she could comment on your personal appearance. She turned to Georgie.
“I’m sure you don’t want me to get handsy with you, Advance Miner? Or Lady Damia?”
The look in Georgie’s eyes went murderous in a moment, and Xesci lifted her claws.
“There we go. Don’t lash out at me. Also, you’re copying the wrong thing. You think that’s how most Drake men should act. It’s just the loudest ones.”
Anger turned to uncertainty, then terror. Georgie backed up as Xesci smiled at him, and she could see straight through him. Straight through everyone. She turned to Damia, then, and the [Lady] lost her eager, inquisitive smile.
“I’m delighted you’re being useful and having fun, Lady Damia. Just remember—you haven’t reached the inn yet. There’s always time to mess it up, just like you always have.”
She stepped back, then, and gave Ilvriss a thumbs up.
“You see? So much faster than your speech. Want me to visit your mines?”
He hesitated and eyed the two mildly-traumatized employees.
“Can you…be a bit less intense, Xesci?”
She sighed.
“I could try.”
 
——
 
Okay…one issue of Georgie’s behavior had been stomped flat. He was so subdued that besides asking who Xesci was, he seemed rather beaten down.
Ilvriss was reminded that the fellow had survived two near-death experiences. He tried to think of the future. And be encouraging. That was what he was doing as Major Shellc began his Operation Cave-In.
Building morale. It was a stupid phrase, but that was what he was trying. How good he was at it, Ilvriss never knew. He thought it had some effect, but…
“How is Team Oxynite doing? I know morale’s been low recently, but between the reinforcements and a certain [Lady], I understand things are better. Still…how much should I be putting in as a bonus?”
It was a bad joke, but the Drake and Gnoll [Miners] laughed awkwardly as they stood around. Ilvriss’ scales were itching. They were digging towards the undead, but this group was taking a break, and there were [Soldiers] all about. Rolx’s team was digging another tunnel—poorly. Georgie was lending a claw, and they were still half of what Oxynite was doing.
[Foreman] Rolx was eying Georgie, but he didn’t comment on the oddities, like Damia or—well, it was all oddity. He just listened as one of the Drakes, a fellow with a scar on his cheek from a falling stalactite, laughed.
“We’ll take a big one, Wall Lord! This has been one of the most sh—er, interesting jobs so far.”
“You’re allowed to say shit, Miner Filss. We are in the Cowpat Plains. We’re walking on it to work.”
More laughter, but Ilvriss didn’t react to it. He didn’t need to be humored. He just stood there, drinking from a water flask as they did likewise. No free mugs of beer or officials going around shaking hands. And the [Miners] get a bit less raucous as they realized he was just…
“Any major complaints? I know you’re all on combat pay, and I assure you, every measure has been taken to avoid miner-deaths. But we are working around multiple high-tier undead. They have to die. If we pack up and haul off, these lands will be hit by a scourge in a decade’s time like an Adult Creler’s nest.”
“Not like the Humans don’t deserve it, Wall Lord. They come riding in, break our skulls, and ride off, and we have to clean up the shit living in their tunnels?”
Another silence to see what the Wall Lord said, but Ilvriss nodded at the Gnoll.
“Fair enough, Miner…?”
“Rulf.”
“Thank you, Miner Rulf, I agree with a lot of that. However, it’s their lands—and ours. These undead? They’re all Drakes. Well, I heard a few Gnolls were among them, but it’s Drakes. Even if most have mutated. It’s…our problem.”
Now they were all staring at him, and someone coughed.
“As in—we were the ones mining down here? What’re we, uh, what’re we digging up, Wall Lord? There’s rumors it’s—we just heard it was some big dig.”
Ilvriss took another sip of water, thoughtful.
“Whatever I can tell you would be a problem, Miner Arassa. You know we’ve got corporate spies—with how many there are, I think we might have more than [Miners]. Which I apologize about, but believe me, when bonuses are delivered, I am paying attention to who’s actually digging.”
He gestured with his free claw, ever-so-slightly, to Rolx’s team to the side, and the [Miners] stirred. Oh, was that how…? Ilvriss went on, glancing around.
“If you have safety issues, or I can make this more tolerable, that’s my concern right now. Are you missing anything? The water here’s…brackish.”
He grimaced at the water flask. Rolx hurried forward to assure Ilvriss he could get the Wall Lord something better, but Ilvriss just took another swig.
“No, we had it purity-tested. So it’s potable. But maybe we enchant this with a flavor? We can do that—I actually heard one of the Horns of Hammerad had a bunch of water flasks that did the same thing. Fascinating stuff. There’s an Enchanter Hedault coming by for a consultation in a bit. Say I do that. What flavor?”
“Mint?”
“Not mint—something like a juice?”
“You want to drink that nonstop? Milk?”
“I’m going to be sick, Wall Lord, anything but mint or milk—”
He grinned as he took suggestions, then asked about any other amenities.
“At least we’ve got damn bidets. Nice toilets, Wall Lord. You know, we had Humans asking about them?”
The Drake Wall Lord was amused as Georgie came out for a break, chewing on his cigar, and listened.
“Keep this secret, but I heard the Lischelle family was asking about our [Plumber] installing his toilets in their houses.”
“Hah! And they can squat over a hole while we’ve got real plumbing, eh, Wall Lord?”
“No, I gave Master Oidhol the go-ahead. We’re trying to be friendly here.”
The [Miners] were comfortable enough to grouse, now, and Ilvriss held up his claws.
“Look, I’m not happy about the raids either. I’m paying for all these damn cattle, and that Marvus punched me so hard I swear I felt like I was fourteen again the other day. But we can’t let this go to blood. There’s a lot more of them than us.”
Plus, he’d rotated squads like Rolx’s so they ended up being off-duty when the [Ranchers] came by in the evenings, leaving the real [Miners] to rest up. The Humans didn’t get nearly as far as they’d like, despite all their Skills and levels. The [Miners] continued to grouse.
“D’you think you can do anything about the heat, Wall Lord? It’s getting hot down here.”
“Cooling spells? Don’t you have any?”
“Sure—it’s a bubble, but we’re spread out.”
“Wind spells, then. I’ll put in an order and see if Master Hedault can do some more enchanting. Now, I’ve got to keep moving—I’ll be here to oversee Operation Cave-In for a bit, but I have to keep going. We’re doing important work here.”
The [Miners] nodded, and one of them offered a hand to shake after tugging a glove off his paws.
“Just as you say, Wall Lord. It’s good pay, and the Gemscale Company does right by us. Whatever we’re digging up—it’ll be good for Salazsar, right?”
“It’ll be good for everyone, I hope, Miner Rulf.”
Ilvriss met the Gnoll’s eyes, and the Gnoll in his late thirties smiled. He wasn’t a copy of Georgie; he had two children, and he was a company man who’d signed up for a lot more pay. Ilvriss’ stomach tightened; Rulf might be hurt in the operation or times to come.
He was doing it for the gold. It was like Osthia’s new group. Men and women coming all this way, enduring privation, lack of bidets, angry Humans, undead, all for just gold.
Because they weren’t him. Ilvriss met his eyes.
“Trust me on that.”
Ilvriss thought they appreciated the visit and break if nothing else, but he felt that incongruity. Just for a moment.
The Wall Lord…thought about that.
 
——
 
Advance Miner Georgie and Ilvriss watched Operation Cave-In going down. Both were ready for action, and Georgie had actually done some of the digging to get to the baby Dorn Pillar. However, as luck had it, he was resting when the breach was made and the [Soldiers] went in.
Rubirel Guard and the regular soldiers that Ilvriss had taken with him to the north. Shellc knew his business; he screened the undead with heavily-armored Drakes and Gnolls and let lower-leveled [Soldiers] gain experience in supporting roles.
The Major even went down himself as Ilvriss listened to the reports.
“It’s running, it’s running—straight up Tunnel Beta! [Geomancers], target from the surface for long-range precision quakes—[Miners], activate your [Controlled Collapse] Skills and prepare to breach!”
The [Geomancers] shifted the earth, trying to trigger a controlled collapse of the tunnels. One in an adjoining tunnel actually created a [Stone Wall] spell and pressed it into the earth, forcing the dirt around it to move, and then—
“Collapse! Collapse in Tunnel Beta! It’s not buried! It’s trapped against one wall! It’s screaming, Major—”
“Rubirel Guard, advance alone. All squads, fall back and fortify your zones and prepare for another counter! I’m heading in.”
Major Shellc strode out of the command room, and Ilvriss waited, ready to lead a second squad down. Captain Osthia was in the wings—
Then they heard a report. Major Shellc’s voice.
“Dorn Pillar down. This is for the record—you go through the damn holes in its body, just like the Monster Bestiary says. Eugh, there are Children everywhere.”
“Major Shellc, say again?”
“Sorry, the monster, not actual children, Wall Lord. Always wondered where the buggers came from. The unborn ones do not look cute.”
And that was it. Ilvriss didn’t believe it was that simple, and neither did Georgie. As reports came in of other undead moving towards the soldiers—then away at speed—they realized Shellc had done it. When he hauled the ‘corpse’ of the Dorn Pillar up and they saw the white flesh oozing out the holes in its body, like a mutilated piece of bone with holes drilled in it leaking flesh like a slug—Ilvriss gagged.
“Major, you took that out?”
A huge cut had split some of the holes open, and by the scorch marks, the Rubirel Guard had thrust their weapons through the gap and exploded the Dorn Pillar from the inside out. The [Major] seemed slightly hurt; he was rubbing at his earholes.
“Sorry, my ears are still ringing from it screaming. I’ve seen worse in Rhir. Remind me to tell you about an ever-splitting monster some time…there are more undead down there. We just took out a leader. Nice work on the digging. Lady Damia has my compliments.”
And what did you say next? Ilvriss thought about it.
“Two days paid leave to every [Miner] and [Soldier] who participated. Let’s send to Thirthoof for some good food. Keep at it, Major Shellc.”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss walked away, smiling, and shook claws with people as the cheering started and the dead Dorn Pillar was paraded around for the other teams. We did it.
He caught Damia celebrating with the [Miners] and saw Georgie standing there, eying the other undead being brought up for dissection or disposal.
“How was that, Advance Miner? Anything we’ve done wrong?”
“You’re asking me? It looked tidy. Never had Rubirel Guard for escort on anything but Crelers, Wall Lord. Yeah. It’s a good company you’ve got there.”
What else do you want from me? Ilvriss frowned. He appreciated the honesty since he doubted Georgie lied well, or cared to about matters like this. But the [Miner] was just…kicking dried cow pats around.
“You did solid work today. Do you think you’d want to stay on? Assuming we clear the issues around you, of course.”
Georgie’s head snapped up. Ilvriss consulted his [Mental Notes].
“You’re working pro tem for this expedition, but anyone who works well we could keep on with the Gemscale company. Given the counterlevelling going on here, I think that’ll be a lot of good people. How about it?”
“If you clear my issues—hah!”
The Drake managed a shaky laugh. He shook his head, and Ilvriss pressed him.
“Let’s assume we did. How about it?”
Georgie’s face twisted up, then he spat the next words out.
“Even if you did the impossible—why would I? It’s a nice paying job, and if you deliver on tasty water and breeze spells, you’re better’n most damn companies, but so what? This is a shitass job, and I only took it for the gold. Don’t expect me to stick around if I find a better offer.”
That was—fair. Ilvriss gazed down at the [Miners] who were waving up at him. He waved back; someone must have told them they were getting time off. All it took for them to cheer his name was that. And he felt it again.
“I…do appreciate all the [Miners] are doing here, Georgie. This has been a hard dig, and I’m not the one digging.”
“I’m sure a fat bonus does all that, Wall Lord. It’ll last you as long as it does for them. But this is your dig. Whatever we dug up is going straight to the Gemscale Company. Lots of those pickaxes and stuff?”
Ilvriss hesitated before nodding. Georgie stuck his claws in his pockets.
“I only stole it for a second, but I could tell what it did. That’s like a Relic-class pickaxe, right?”
“…Pending Master Hedault’s personal confirmation.”
“There you go. D’you know how it feels when you dig up the biggest gemstone you’ve ever seen, or a piece of Adamantium, and know it’s going straight to the company?”
“There are bounties on—I see your point.”
“Yeah. Besides. You can’t save my life. If you want to organize me getting paid out, I’ll go to Invrisil tomorrow. It’ll spare all of us a lot of problems.”
Georgie turned away abruptly. Ilvriss stared at his back. He cleared his throat.
“Georgie, the attack on your life was unacceptable. The Drake’s being charged, and it won’t happen again.”
The Advance Miner was staring into the hole in the ground that was Dig Site B like he was considering jumping down there.
“It’ll happen. Everyone knows what I am, even if you claim I’ve been cursed. That doesn’t matter. Cursed or not, now I’m a—a—”
“Georgie, I’ve had hard conversations these last few days. You’re not an easy person to work with, but I respect your actual capabilities quite a bit. If we can make this work—”
The Advance Miner turned in a flash and grabbed Ilvriss’ suit.
“There’s no way to fix this, Wall Lord! Everyone knows! What am I supposed to do? They’re going to kill me—”
There was genuine terror in his eyes. And Ilvriss saw it again.
“I won’t let it happen, Georgie.”
The Drake didn’t believe him. He let go fast as people turned, then stepped back, staring at the ground.
“Just let me leave with some gold, Wall Lord. I’m one Advance Miner among hundreds you could find at the drop of a hat. Even if I am the best—why bother?”
Why indeed? Ilvriss stood there, and he remembered Erin’s words to him. But more than wanting to do the [Innkeeper]’s bidding, more than curiosity or—he just regarded Georgie.
“Well, what’s in your future if you quit?”
“Another mine? Another job.”
“What about retirement?”
“You don’t get retirement as a freelancer.”
“You do in my company.”
Another flash of rage. Georgie turned abruptly.
“Yeah, well. I wish I was so lucky as to fit in nice and square into the company hole, Wall Lord. But I wasn’t lucky enough to even be born a Gnoll in a Drake’s Walled City.”
He walked off, and Ilvriss stood there a while. Before going to meet Master Hedault.
 
——
 
The [Enchanter] was always on time. He did not enjoy the Cowpat Plains, but given the sensitivity of this job, he had come in person to give Ilvriss a second report on the items they’d dug up. He had nose plugs in his nostrils, which was really distracting as Ilvriss sat with him. The nose plugs were orange, like Hedault’s receding hairline.
“They are closer to Relic-class than not, Wall Lord.”
“They’re not cursed in any way? They triggered my Hoarding—”
Hedault peered at the cup of water Ilvriss offered him and pushed it back, shaking his head.
“Likely a subconscious instinct, Wall Lord. Especially among Oldblood Drakes—there is an innate ability of some Drakes to appraise the worth of items they hold and covet them.”
“R-really?”
“It is a known ability, though I believe not formally recognized. I have several colleagues who have documented the phenomenon. Just like the ‘sixth sense’ of Humans or Gnolls claiming their fur can detect weather changing, like a [Sailor] and winds. You could say the items are cursed in one sense of the word.”
“How so?”
Hedault rubbed at one arm, then tapped his finger on the desk between them, quite miffed.
“The items are cursed in that I have fought off Grimalkin, Salamani, Valeterisa—all of whom exhibited signs of Hoarding themselves. All of whom wanted these items. I suggest you take care with who is entrusted with the artifacts, and I mention this as due prudence in my role as consultant. Beyond that? They are merely valuable beyond belief. Enchantments of an age bygone, preserved due to a near-perfect containment environment and the Monster Preservation Effect.”
“You’ve lost me.”
Hedault raised a finger, smiling.
“A simple phenomenon known to [Enchanters]. Artifacts degrade over time. Mana seeps even from peerless enchantments such as these. However, the presence of monsters that generate magic, even undead, reduces that decay to almost nothing.”
“So that’s why artifacts and monster nests go together—”
“Precisely. Many monsters tolerate the presence of magical artifacts because the seepage of mana empowers them. A fascinating biological adaptation to magic that has left you with artifacts that are in the top ten items for net worth I have ever appraised.”
Hedault took the cup then, and Ilvriss realized that the [Enchanter] might be Human, but even he was eying the pickaxe placed in front of him with great desire.
“But you didn’t take the items, Enchanter Hedault. I quite appreciate that.”
The man just shrugged.
“They are not mine. I do not break the laws I personally hold to be upstanding. They are not mine…and that is that.”
He turned his head away, hard, averting his gaze from the item. Ilvriss knew that copying the enchantments on the pickaxe would make Hedault level and rich—if he managed it. The Wall Lord was reminded, again, that the Erin-effect was in this.
Any other [Enchanter] might have claimed the items were less valuable, or that one had broken in the process of analyzing them or just sold the information. Not Hedault.
“How are your projects coming along, Master Hedault? I was distressed to learn you had been forced out of your home in Invrisil. I have properties in Liscor if you need residence.”
Tap-tap went Hedault’s finger on his wrist. He nodded.
“A kind offer, Wall Lord. However, I have been residing in Esthelm with lodging provided by Solar Cycles, and I am spending an inordinate amount of time in the company of other [Mages]. I hope to have permanent lodgings soon. I have also been engaged in personal research, which has kept me from earning income, but this job was quite worth my time in remuneration and knowledge. Thank you.”
His green eyes glittered with something, and Ilvriss thought he recalled Ryoka visiting the [Enchanter] a few times during the long winter. But whatever Hedault was up to—Ilvriss picked up the pickaxe.
A fortune in magic in his hands. A weapon a Named-ranker might take up. And yet—it was a damn pickaxe.
“Who can use a pickaxe in combat?”
“Two Named-rankers in this age, I believe, Wall Lord, are former [Miners], though I do not know if they are retired.”
That was Hedault for you. Ilvriss had meant more…who’d use it in Salazsar? He had been studying sword techniques, and they did not work with the pickaxe. He thought of Georgie’s comments, and in hindsight, the answer was obvious.
But it was damn hard. Ilvriss admired his reflection on the faintly-glowing metal and thought of his Ancestors. A shame he’d never gotten to really talk to Teriarch. But what would he have said?
Generations upon generations separated the two. They were, in the end, different species. They had to be. So, he slowly held the pickaxe out.
“Master Hedault, I would like you to take this and every item with a unique enchantment among the gear we’ve collected.”
The [Enchanter] had been checking a personal timepiece. He went completely still. Then his head snapped up.
“In exchange for how much work, Wall Lord?”
“What? None. That is to say—I don’t think you’d like to put a number on it. Consider it an investment.”
Ilvriss was having a hard time holding the pickaxe out. When Hedault stared at him, he shook it.
“Take it, please.”
The [Enchanter] did not, so Ilvriss put it down on the table.
“I do not understand, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss tore his eyes off the pickaxe. Meeting Hedault’s gaze made it easier.
“What’s there not to understand? You’re a friend of the inn.”
Hedault took his time with a response, jaw working as he also gazed at the pickaxe, then at his fingers.
“I am—most assuredly not, Wall Lord. I have not socialized there in any meaningful way. I have friends I have made through the inn, such as the late Kevin—but I—”
“You’ve helped Erin. You know what she’s like. You’ve met Goblins and Antinium. You are, for lack of a better word, a good person in a world distressingly short of them at times. Or people who are willing to be good when it’s hard. Take it.”
Ilvriss felt like a hatchling, saying it all out loud like that. But the [Enchanter] blinked, and Ilvriss shoved the pickaxe forwards.
“Don’t look at it as a gift. An investment, I said. If you manage to copy this enchantment, any of them, or whatever project you’re working on—I want it. I have an eye for good business, and you are that. Take it, Master Hedault. I’d hate to quibble. I have a lot to do today, suddenly.”
He stood, hoping to avoid further argument. But Master Hedault, in his curious way, was just as quick. He picked up the pickaxe, made it vanish into his bag of holding, and then stood as well.
“I will take the most-atrophied items, then, with your permission?”
“I’ll walk you to our Chest of Holding myself, given that I doubt anyone will trust your word even with a note.”
The [Enchanter] nodded. Then he held out his hand.
“Wall Lord, thank you. I will remember this.”
That was all he said. Ilvriss shook Hedault’s hand and was surprised by the strength the man had. He wondered—did Hedault ever shake hands? But when the [Enchanter] smiled, Ilvriss looked him in the eye and thought he’d done himself a great service.
In time.
Then he walked Hedault over to the guarded armory and did the hardest thing in the world—again. Which was the second-hardest thing in his life.
Well, far lower than some things when you got to it. It just felt bad. After the third artifact, it got easier. And then—you know what?
It got a lot easier.
 
——
 
Foreman Rolx didn’t get to go to Invrisil on leave just because of the cruel arithmetic of numbers. Ilvriss had promised time off, and everyone got it—but staggered. Pulling that many mining teams off the dig sites was too much even with the new [Miners], and so the staff had organized things.
In three days, Rolx would get a four-day weekend, which was excellent. Normally, you might work six days out of the week, then take a two-day weekend, and get a three-day weekend once a month. Given you had eight days in the week, working six days in a row was punishing, and he was really looking forward to hitting Invrisil, Liscor, or Pallass.
He had been triumphant about killing the horrific Dorn Pillar, but he was tired, and he wanted to hit the showers and rest. So being called over during the last hour of his shift had him scowling.
He tried to smile at the Wall Lord, but the Drake had done a lot of hanging out, and Rolx’s tongue hurt from not shouting curses and playing nice. He liked Wall Lord Ilvriss, he did. Good manager who hired Gnolls—but like Georgie, Rolx would have been honest in private and said it was just about the gold.
He was surprised, then, to find Ilvriss appearing rather harried himself. And with a Drake trying to put him in a choke hold; he finally threw Advisor Merls off of him.
“Someone drag him away and put a Calming Tonic on him.”
“He’s gone mad! Stop the Wall Lord! Welsca, Damia—help!”
Lady Damia, her [Bodyguard], and two other Drakes had to drag off the screaming man, and the others were also looking at Ilvriss as if he’d gone insane. Rolx hesitated.
“Er, trouble, sir?”
“My staff are objecting to some of my decisions, Rolx. It’ll pass. I had to fistfight three of them—Ancestors. It really is a damn curse.”
Administrative work was harder than he’d thought if that was how it looked internally. Rolx wondered if he’d been too hard on his boy for wanting an office job.
“How can I, uh, help you, Wall Lord? We appreciate all the rewards for our job, but we’re all set to finish the day.”
If you’ll let us just get to it, we’ll go and eat and sleep, thank you. But the Wall Lord smiled at Rolx. He was no idiot, the Gnoll realized.
“It occurs to me, Foreman Rolx, that you’ve been working for the Gemscale company for twenty-two years.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
Thirty and he’d be eligible for part pension. Forty, and he’d have tons of benefits rolling in…the companies got you when you were a teen in apprentice-jobs. As young as twelve sometimes, and then you just worked for them.
Gemscale was a good company. Rolx stood there, wondering if he’d get a year added to his work record. That would be worth it. But the Wall Lord only spoke.
“All this work, digging up a Walled City. I thought it was obvious it would benefit everyone.”
“W-Wall Lord?”
Had he just said…? Lady Damia whirled, and Ilvriss just watched the setting sun.
“But it does only benefit from the top down, doesn’t it? If I’m ‘fair’, you get paid well, but that’s it. That’s why it’s so damn hard. You want to keep everything. Because there is no economic sense in giving you anything close to a share of Gemscale’s profits. To succeed, the company should take everything it can and reinvest in itself. Not the people.”
That sounded like real corporate talk. Rolx felt like it was the kind of thing he’d gripe about with other [Foremen] in private. And he’d heard agitators back home talking about that. Followers of the late Sellme. He’d heard Sellme was dead, and that was a bit of a shame, even with the painting thing—but Ilvriss just regarded Rolx.
“Maybe that’s how it works ideally, but you know, the real world isn’t made of such things as numbers. There’s plenty of that, but I’ve known business deals to fail or go through just based on people not liking each other. And one of my favorite people is the most suboptimal, inefficient Human in the world. Nothing she does makes good business sense. But the value she extracts always seems to be beyond whatever any logic dictates.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
That seemed like a safe bet. The Gnoll was waiting for Ilvriss to finish whatever philosophical musings he was about, but the Drake was done. He just handed something over to Rolx.
“That’s a pithy, longwinded way of explaining this, Foreman. It’s only one per [Foreman] and the best [Miners]. Here.”
He handed Rolx…a pickaxe. The Gnoll blinked at it. He recognized it, of course. They’d recovered them from the mining tunnels, and they’d been run off to administration.
“Sir? I already have a very good pickaxe. Top of the line. Foreman’s Pick—”
“Take it, Foreman Rolx.”
Hesitantly, the Gnoll lifted the pickaxe. It was so light that he gasped. When he swung it at a stone wall—his paw kept moving, and he stared as he completed the swing without resistance. Then all the fur rose on his body, and he turned.
“Wall Lord—”
Did he know what that was? He had to. The Wall Lord stood there, and it didn’t even seem hard for him to have given the pickaxe away. Welsca, behind him, looked like she was trying to keep herself from launching at Rolx.
“Yes. It’s not temporary. It’s the real thing. I’m going to have you put it in the armory, of course, at night. And we’ll have a system to withdraw them. Tags on the handles or something simple.”
“Yes, Wall Lord—”
So they were letting him use this? Did it swing like that every time? Dead gods, he’d triple the output of the team himself. Foreman Rolx felt like a cub suddenly. He wanted to run back to work. Then he wondered how much gear like this they had. Ancestors, the Gemscale Corporation was rich. And he felt that envy, the sense of forlorn envy that Georgie and the others felt.
That’s when he saw Ilvriss gazing at him.
“You understand, there are considerable risks to owning a piece of gear like that, Foreman Rolx. Every [Thief] in the world will be after it.”
“Of course, Wall Lord, but I’ll be a credit to the company. Thank you for trusting me with it. I’ll be as secure as can be.”
He might try to steal it? The idea was just an intrusive thought, and Rolx shoved it away. No, he’d never get away with it. Using it would be enough. But Ilvriss just kept going.
“I think I need to insist on…a two year clause. We’re working it up. I can’t just give it away.”
“Of course not, Wall L…give it away?”
“Indeed not. It’ll be a reward. And we have numerous employees in the Gemscale Company who deserve one. Alrric, for one. But if we find as many as I think—yes. Give me two years, Foreman Rolx. Two years, and I know you are risking your life and health on this job. It is still, likely, not a fair trade for those who will be injured and die. But that is the unfairness of a company. This?”
Ilvriss pointed at the pickaxe as Rolx understood what he meant, and his mind went blank.
“This is your share.”
“Mine…?”
Now the Gnoll realized why the other Drake had tackled Ilvriss. Why Welsca was trembling. Ilvriss just turned and grinned.
“Welsca, stop that.”
“Wall Lord, your father might murder you. Genuinely.”
“Well, you’ll stop him. Once we find some armor in those tunnels. Or a ring. It’s miner’s gear, Welsca. Neither you nor I look good with those damn helmets on. So if we find that, once we find that…”
Ilvriss turned. He began walking off, and Rolx’s paws were sweaty now. This had to be a joke. They were going to laugh at him or—
“W-Wall Lord! You can’t just give this—why me?”
He hadn’t worked here as long as some! He was a Gnoll. But Ilvriss just turned back. He looked lighter, and he pulled a lantern out of his bag of holding. He was giving them all away, Rolx realized.
“Make no mistake, Foreman Rolx. In two year’s time, you can quit the Gemscale company. I won’t lock you in here forever. You can go and sell that, or use it and start your own company.”
“Are you insane? That makes no sense, Wall Lord.”
“Well, I expect I’ll have more to give away. I sure hope so. If this is all we ever find, I’ll look mighty stupid, and my father will kill me. My mother, sister, and uncle too. But if I’m right, Rolx…we’re digging up a Walled City’s treasures. They belong to their descendants. I am Wall Lord Ilvriss Gemscale of Salazsar. Son of the walls. Aren’t you as well, Rolx?”
The question hit the Gnoll harder than any speech or [Inspiring Moment] anyone in the Gemscale company had ever used on him.
Aren’t you? For one moment, he saw the Archmage of Izril’s final moments in Fissival on scrying orb. Where she left the Scholarium and her city because they had never wanted her. He saw Ilvriss turn and walk off, and the Wall Lord appeared carefree. Laughing as he began to run—Advisor Merls was back and tried to tackle Ilvriss but went over a safety-railing.
“Thanks.”
That was all the Gnoll said. Then he walked back down into the mining shaft, past laughing [Miners] who asked what the Wall Lord wanted now. Rolx stood in front of a wall of dirt. Gazing at it until they got worried he wasn’t well.
Then he swung the pickaxe. And later, he heard a voice.
 
[Tough Foreman Level 27!]
[Class Change: Tough Foreman → Miner of the Magic Pickaxe Class!]
[Miner of the Magic Pickaxe Level 20!]
[Skill – Bound Item: Pickaxe of Naamreles Assigned!]
[Skill – Understand Enchantment Obtained!]
[Skill – Mighty Swing Obtained!]
[Skill – Disguise of Mundanity (Item) Obtained!]
 
[Rank: Son of Salazsar Rank 1 Achieved.]
[Skill – Dirtdweller’s Friend Obtained!]
 
——
 
The Wall Lord had to admit, he was lightheaded after all that. He had given everything out except for two pickaxes. One for Alrric. And one for Georgie.
The Advance Miner had heard what was going on. How could you not? Rumors were spreading, even if those who had been gifted one of the items of Naamreles were keeping their lips shut.
Most of the staff had understood, after the Hoarding had left them. A few had been put on leave and assigned to [Thought Healers] in Pallass—
The Advance Miner had been avoiding Ilvriss all day. He stood at the edge of camp, lighting the worn cigar. Blowing on it. Hacking.
It turned out Georgie didn’t like smoking it. The Drake broke the silence before Ilvriss could.
“I’ve been thinking.”
“About?”
“The mine I found. Who mines like that?”
“…With the struts, you mean?”
Georgie shook his head. Ilvriss thought he meant the enchanted support struts he definitely wanted to pull out once they could replace them.
“Not that. We never cleared it ‘cause of the undead, but we sent down sensor spells and scout Skills. It has no exit. Not up nor down. But they were digging up. The down…is collapsed. Looks like they collapsed it. Why?”
“Accident?”
“With their gear? Fat chance. They collapsed it and started digging up. Only…that’s a slow death. Not a fast one. They had bags of holding. Maybe spells. You can create free air or store it. I’ve heard of cave-ins where the bastards inside last months. Even years if they had food. But you die slow. And they just kept…digging. Guess which way?”
“Up.”
Ilvriss felt his scales crawl, and Georgie nodded.
“Almost like they were trying to run from something. Once the mine’s cleared of undead, we’re going down. If those undead had popped out, a bunch of [Miners] armed with that stuff could have cleared all of them.”
“Probably. It might get harder after that. Georgie—”
“I tried to steal that pickaxe. Maybe not that one. You don’t want to give it to me.”
The Drake Wall Lord squatted down next to Georgie as the Advance Miner sat, cross-legged. Georgie stared across the plains, and the cigar smoke made it smell better at night. Ilvriss sat, pickaxe across his legs.
“I meant it when I said that I wanted to help you, Georgie. This would be proof of that. You’re not allowed to run off with it. Three years is probably what we’re asking.”
“You don’t know what you’re getting yourself into. You give me that pickaxe and anyone who hates my guts will want a piece of me—on top of what I am.”
Georgie stared ahead. Ilvriss murmured.
“Well, we can address it.”
“How?”
“I don’t know. I keep saying it because I must. Listen, you’re not my first pick either, Georgie. You haven’t worked here as long. You did try to steal this. But I have a feeling that if I pay you out, and let you vanish, you’ll just keep doing this. And your luck will run out eventually. Won’t it?”
“Yeah.”
That soft comment confirmed the other thing Ilvriss understood. He sat there.
“You’re not great, Georgie. But I’ve known worse.”
“—Thanks?”
Ilvriss went on doggedly.
“I’ve met Tessa, who is a lot of things, and not all of it was her fault. The same with Captain Todi. I’ve looked in a mirror. Sometimes, you need someone to throw a frying pan at your head and give you a flaming cup filled with glory. We do give people second chances in the Gemscale Company. I’d wager you don’t get many first chances. Today, after I talked with you, you were the exemplar of an Advance Miner. If I give you the opportunity to prove yourself, in an environment that gives you that trust—can you deliver?”
“You can’t…change what’s wrong with me, Wall Lord. Everyone knows.”
Georgie mumbled. Ilvriss exhaled.
“I can try to talk to the instigators. I know who was behind the attempt on your life. And it seems to me that I’ve been putting it off. If you can give me something, I’ll give you this. Call it a probationary period.”
He held the pickaxe out, handle first. Georgie sat there. The Wall Lord was planning his next move, formulating a plan within the world he understood, which was trying to include Georgie. It was not that hard to include the Advance Miner in there. But for one thing, Ilvriss would have treated the Drake like anyone else. He had already forgotten, most of the time, what lay under Georgie’s clothes because Ilvriss didn’t go around imagining anyone nude.
There was another voice, like the old one that wanted him to take every magical item and hide it away, that understood, though. It spoke a word in the back of Ilvriss’ mind.
Turnscale. He ignored it. He had bested the instincts of his species that told him to Hoard. But…he didn’t understand. Georgie did.
The Advance Miner’s head rose. He gazed at the handle of the magical pickaxe. Then Ilvriss.
“Okay. Okay, I…I can’t turn down that. I’m not gonna make it much longer as an Advance Miner. Not as an old man. My reflexes are slowing down, and if I don’t have good gear and take too many risky jobs—three years for that? I’d be a fool not to take it.”
He was barely past thirty. Ilvriss stifled a comment. They both knew Georgie was pushing it for his profession. The [Miner] went on, voice suddenly raspy.
“I can—I can do it. I just have to fit in, right?”
“If we can avoid someone killing you or starting a fight, yes. The cover story about the curse doesn’t appear to have worked. Master Hedault agreed to write a false report, but I rather think the issue isn’t helped.”
If Georgie had been an ordinary fellow transformed by a gender-swap curse, he’d be a Turnscale. Sort of ironic that the excuse resulted in the same…Georgie nodded.
“Got it. In that case, Wall Lord, d’you have a…a dress?”
“Huh?”
“I can probably get one that fits, and—I mean, there’s women’s gear, but it looks the same, mostly. I’ll just—wear that. And, uh, speak differently. Like this.”
Georgie’s slightly raspy voice changed and raised a full octave. Ilvriss jumped. Advance Miner Georgie just stared at the pickaxe. Played with the handle.
“That’d do it.”
“You—want to put on a dress and pretend to be—I mean, that is to say—”
“If I dress up and apologize, that’ll work, right? Better than getting killed. I’ve done it a few times to get out of trouble. I’ll just cry a bit or something and—then you can say I came to my senses. After a while, it’ll simmer down.”
There was experience in the way Georgie was talking, but his voice was—shaking. Ilvriss sat there in the fading light, watching the way Georgie’s tail was curling in on itself, more than he’d ever seen, and he feared the bones might break.
“You’re sure?”
“Definitely. I’ll get some comments and stuff, but that does it. And—and if you had someone from Miss Xesci’s brothel or one of your people? Someone who didn’t mind, y’know, saying it. They could tell people they’d—that we’d had sex—and put me in my place.”
His voice shrank. Ilvriss sat there, and Georgie shakily took the cigar out of his mouth. Stubbed it against one knee.
“How’s—how’s that?”
“Does that…cover story work?”
“I mean, that’s what happens. Sometimes.”
A cough, hoarse in the night, and Ilvriss listened to the silence for a moment. He sat there, staring ahead at the empty plains, and then spoke.
“Georgie. I don’t mean to insult you in any way. So please take this as objectively as possible. But you and dresses don’t go together. You’d look terrible in them, and I have been in the company of a young Human girl who tries her best to be objectionable—they don’t suit a fellow like you.”
The shivering Advance Miner didn’t appear to hear Ilvriss at first. The Wall Lord went on, feeling his way forwards. Towards the faint light he understood.
“We just had a conversation this morning about making people feel uncomfortable, Advance Miner Georgie. In all good conscience, I cannot make you do something that makes you this visibly distressed. If that’s not who you are, I will not have you dress or behave that way. We’ll find another solution. Not that.”
He watched Georgie’s tail slightly uncurl. The Drake hesitated.
“But if we don’t do that—”
“It would be wrong to do. I am going to address the perpetrators, Georgie. I will find a team you can work with, and I will institute policies to keep you safe. I cannot change people’s minds or obfuscate the information. But I can ensure the people you work with are at least of my disposition. Even if that is not ideal.”
That was the only thing he could think of. Ilvriss wondered—
That’s sometimes how it happened? His scales itched. He had questions, suddenly, for Xesci. Deeply uncomfortable ones he was not going to ask now. Not with Georgie visibly tense. And the Advance Miner looked at Ilvriss and snapped—
“You think that’s just going to work?”
“I very much doubt it will. I’ll keep monitoring the situation, and we’ll have you guarded—”
“You—it’s going to blow up in your face. You think I trust that? What—do you need a loyal Advance Miner that badly? D’you want me to go into whatever’s below the mines? What’s your angle?”
Suddenly, Georgie was on his feet again, suspicious, even afraid. Ilvriss rose.
“Georgie, I’m trying to help—”
“You? You? There’s no Wall Lord or Lady in the city that would help someone like me. What’s with the change? What’s—what do you want from me?”
Paranoia had replaced agony.
“I had an employee, Tessa, who I wanted to help, but I didn’t know how. I failed her, Georgie. I have been rather blind to Turnscales, but I have been told there is an issue. Now I’m seeing it. I’d like to help.”
“You’re mad. Or trying to show off. Are you trying to sleep with that Human?”
Ilvriss twitched.
“The woman I love is dead, Georgie. I mean it.”
“Yeah, well, so do I. I don’t trust this. I don’t trust you. You don’t know me—us. What’s with all of this? There’s no Turnscale in your company; what’s with making me the [Hero] you’re doing everything for?”
“There’s been one in my company at least as long as you’ve been working, Georgie. And while you weren’t ideal, I didn’t have a problem with your conduct aside from the, well, thieving.”
Ilvriss countered. He was worried Georgie was about to literally flee into the distance. The Drake seemed ready to bolt. And this time there might be no Lyonette to march on Tenbault.
“Why me? Just because someone told you to?”
Ilvriss’ face was shadowed as he stood there. Georgie was backing up slowly. The Wall Lord called out.
“I admit, that’s why I listened. I don’t have a good reason, Georgie. It’s simply that when I realized how much unfairness was coming your way, I disliked that. That’s all. I like to believe in fairness, even when it doesn’t truly exist, and you are being treated unfairly. I’d rather have garnished your wages for a month and written you up for trying to steal that pickaxe.”
It spun into the dirt at Ilvriss’ feet and cleaved so deep only the handle jutted out of the soil. Both Drakes stared at it, then Georgie pointed a finger at it.
“You can’t buy my trust. You don’t know any Turnscales. I don’t want to be your pet project.”
“I don’t want another pet project. I just want to offer a decent Advance Miner a job and not see him dead or miserable. Truly, Georgie, I’d like to not think or worry about it.”
“Well that’s all you’ll have to deal with if you keep me on. You don’t get it, Wall Lord, they won’t stop. Maybe you can deal with this camp. Maybe. When I get back to Salazsar, they’ll put me in the sanatorium. This will keep going on.”
“Then I’ll address it as it comes up. Or we can find you a different posting or send you off. But speak with me, Georgie. Please.”
“How do I trust you? You don’t know any Turnscales. You’re just pretending—”
The two were getting angry. Ilvriss at Georgie for all he was trying to be reasonable, and the Advance Miner’s fists were balled up. Before one of them threw a punch, someone rose from the grass.
Like a shadow. Like an [Assassin].
Or just like Xesci could do when she wanted to be stealthy. Ilvriss and Georgie recoiled. Well, the Advance Miner threw a punch, and Xesci caught it, then threw him over her shoulder. He landed, and she spoke.
“Yes, he does. Me.”
Georgie lay, gasping up at Xesci like a fish. The [Courtesan of Change]’s face shifted to that of a male Drake. A copy of Ilvriss stared down at Georgie, then she shifted again. Her features morphed like putty, and Ilvriss’ scales chilled.
She never showed—
Then a slightly overweight Human man pulled Georgie up. He recoiled. Xesci changed back to the ordinary Drake woman, face resigned.
“It scares people. But I am that, if anyone is. I think I was a Drake woman, once. Now I’m everything. I was listening because I could tell Georgie was about to run for it.”
She turned to Ilvriss. He just stared at her. Then Georgie burst out.
“You—don’t count! I don’t know what you are, but you’re not me. You’re too high-level. You could be anything. Anyone. Why don’t you just…leave?”
His voice broke, and he stared at Xesci, fists balled up, envy in his tone. The [Courtesan]’s smile was gentle and a bit sad.
“I could be that, Georgie, and I know so many people who want to be me, like you. The difference is, you want to be someone else. Just one person. Who you are now doesn’t fit, and it itches and hurts. I? I fit no body. I will never fit again.”
She grew in height, adding two feet, and became a Minotauress. Shrank until she was a Lizardgirl. Twisted around into a Lamia—both men backed away, and Xesci’s voice was a whisper.
“I am only comfortable in change. That is what it means to be eaten by your class. I am a new being. Unique, even if there are those like me. That is what it means to be Level 50. If I wore a face and tried to adopt one of my many guises, there would come a day when I would tear my flesh apart and flee, because it would grate on me until I drove myself mad. Believe me. I’ve tried.”
The [Courtesan of Change] confessed it all simply, then became her ordinary self again.
“But we’re not talking about me. Just you and Ilvriss, Georgie. I try to tell no secrets. But I like gossiping, and you are wrong. Wall Lord, you asked me not to tell you anything that would lower your opinion of the Tidebreaker. Yesterday, I could not tell you this. Today, I will, because I think he would have wanted me to. He is dead and the knowledge out there, so I cannot hurt him. You did know a Turnscale you held in high regard. He just never told you.”
It was Ilvriss’ turn to recoil. To stand there in shock, just like Georgie.
“Zel?”
“The Tidebreaker was…?”
“Oh, he just liked men. Not like Georgie. He and Sserys were both Turnscales. And he was actually quite private—he avoided Turnscale bars. I think he knew how dangerous association was with him, but it left him quite miserable. I met him while soliciting important clients, but he refused to hire me, even when I explained my abilities. I think I unnerved him.”
Xesci kept talking when Ilvriss would have really preferred to sit down or have a long walk. But then she met his eyes.
“It’s not just Zel. There are others. I am not a perfect judge, but I am very good, Wall Lord, and you hired me to find out who was who. It has never colored your judgement before. So now you know. Does it change who Zel Shivertail was?”
Ilvriss saw the Drake getting in Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage, alone. A huge back, heading north to fight the Goblin Lord when no one else would. That disappointed expression he favored Ilvriss with so much.
Tired, alone—the Wall Lord whispered.
“Yes, it does.”
Georgie and Xesci gazed at Ilvriss, and the [Courtesan] searched around for a rock to brain Ilvriss with. The Wall Lord spoke.
“I wish I’d been able to go back in time and help him. I didn’t even know his struggles. We just stood in his shadow until he was gone, and now the water’s rushed in and I’m drowning. Turnscale? We let our hero die just for that?”
He sank to his knees, then. Just fell down, and some of the Rubirel Guard standing in the distance saw and rushed over. Georgie and Xesci went to help Ilvriss up. But all he said was.
“Damn Drakes. Damn us. We’re our own worst enemies sometimes.”
Georgie saw Xesci smile. He looked around, found the stub of a cigar, and put it in his mouth, grass stains or not. He stood there awkwardly as the Drake got up.
“I still think you’re taking too much of a risk on me.”
“Well, consider it the luck of the draw.”
For being a Turnscale? It was the first good turn the word had ever given him. Georgie laughed at that. Then he shrugged.
“Show me, then. I want this. If it’s worth the effort.”
“It’s not, for you. You’re not the best Advance Miner, Georgie.”
Ilvriss assured the Drake, and Georgie glared because he disagreed with that. But Ilvriss just looked past him at Xesci.
“Here’s a selfish way to put it. If there were another Zel Shivertail out there? This is so we don’t lose him. That’s a purely enterprise-driven reason. Good enough? Selfish enough?”
Xesci chuckled.
“There is another Zel. And more will always be rising.”
Both Georgie and Ilvriss gazed at her, and then the Wall Lord brushed at his suit.
“Then I have work to do.”
 
——
 
Wall Lord Dramm was uncomfortable. He felt like he’d been ill-at-ease for days. Ever since he’d found out one of them was in the camp.
Turnscales.
Oh, sure, he was glad the undead were being wiped out. He’d heard about some kind of artifacts being passed around in camp and been trying to get anyone to tell him about them, but he was a junior Wall Lord, even if he was noble, and it was frustrating.
He’d been snapping at his juniors to figure it out, but mostly—it was that Turnscale. Georgie.
Someone had to do something! Why wasn’t Ilvriss—? Was it because Georgie knew something about the artifacts? And they were putting Lacambt on trial for it! They had to know…
When he was summoned to Ilvriss’ tent, Dramm felt his stomach lurch, but he was determined. He’d talk to Ilvriss, Drake to Drake, and sort this out. His father was Brilm, and if Ilvriss were crazy, Brilm would…
It was to Dramm’s surprise and mild outrage when he found himself part of a gathering of Drakes and Gnolls, even. [Foremen] and administrators. A lot of command staff!
“Wall Lord Dramm reporting, sir!”
“Dramm, come in. I think you’re the Drake to speak to. We’re going to have a conversation, Dramm. About Lacambt and Miner Georgie. Have a seat.”
Everyone else was standing. They appeared—uncomfortable. As uncomfortable as Dramm, who spotted some of his subordinates here. Not all. He hesitated.
“Is this a formal hearing, sir?”
“No, Dramm, just a conversation.”
So what’s with all the underlings? Dramm sat.
“Perhaps we should have this conversation in private, sir? It’s a delicate matter.”
Ilvriss looked tired. He poured a cup of disappointing water. Dramm wanted a drink, but Ilvriss didn’t, and the Wall Lord seemed to know it.
“Usually, I’d have conversations like this at a bar, but there aren’t any good ones in Thirthoof and I don’t drink anymore, Dramm. It’s cultural. Funny, I didn’t realize it was. I thought everyone was used to having conversations at a bar, but apparently that’s not where you take work.”
“Really, sir?”
“Humans don’t do it as much. Us? It’s an entire routine. You’d offer to pay for my drinks, and I’d insist because I’m the superior, and then you’d pour us a drink and select my favorite one from the menu.”
That…was how it worked. Dramm felt uncomfortable with Ilvriss laying it out like that. He couldn’t say why. He glanced and caught the eyes of Foreman Rolx, then shifted.
“Well, with respect, sir, sometimes it’s important to be private. If I could speak to you about Lacambt, sir? It’s a terrible incident, violence in camp.”
“It is. Attempted murder. By rights, I should have him shipped back to Salazsar for forced conscription labor or just the local jail for imprisonment for life. Or simply executed. This can be considered a military operation, given Advance Miner Georgie’s efforts against serious monsters.”
Dramm’s blood ran cold.
“Sir, that’s—if I may explain the situation—”
Ilvriss sipped from the shot glass and grimaced—he didn’t have better cups, so he kept pouring and drinking.
“I know I’m not giving you a chance, Dramm. Once we’d had a few drinks and chatted about your father or something light, you’d then have the opportunity to tell me, privately, why Lacambt should be released with a light slap on the tail, if anything. Because he was trying to murder Georgie, whom you believe to be a Turnscale, and he did it on your authority.”
The tent had not exactly been noisy, but people had been coughing, shifting, as confused as Dramm. Suddenly it went silent, and Dramm felt his scales crawling.
“S-sir?”
“It’s not an accusation, Wall Lord Dramm.”
“Oh, phew. I—”
“I know it was you.”
Ilvriss filled the cup again, and Dramm’s stomach was in freefall. The Wall Lord forestalled Dramm’s excuses.
“I don’t have proof, but I’m a Drake of Salazsar. I know how it works. Someone made the suggestion, and you approved it. I very much doubt Lacambt disagreed or he’d have broken a leg or found an excuse. Even put a word in Welsca’s ear so it got to me. We have ways.”
Lacambt had volunteered. Dramm’s mouth was dry, but he forced words out.
“Well, sir, if you understand that, then you understand my position.”
Ilvriss stood slowly.
“Wall Lord Dramm. You had one of your people try to murder one of our [Miners] in his sleep.”
“Yes…sir. A Turnscale.”
Was he being arrested? Was Ilvriss insane? But Dramm straightened his spine because he had witnesses, and they could testify—Ilvriss glanced around.
“I can see the word provokes a lot of reactions. Tell me, what makes Georgie a Turnscale?”
“The fact that she’s—you know, Wall Lord!”
“No, I don’t. Explain it.”
“She’s a woman pretending to be a man!”
Dramm exploded, and his scales writhed. He stood up, slamming his claws on the desk.
“It’s not right! Someone should have put her in the sanatorium or—and she’s walking around and—what’s wrong with you, Wall Lord Ilvriss? Are you mad? My father says you might have hit your head fighting Zel Shivertail! First you live in Liscor, now this? Any decent Drake would do what I did!”
Ilvriss saw Dramm lean over the desk and spoke.
“Sit down, Wall Lord Dramm.”
“I prefer to—”
“Sit.”
The aura knocked Dramm down hard, and he gasped. His father couldn’t use his aura to do more than warm up a bit. But Ilvriss just spoke.
“Dramm, I know your father sent you to spy on me.”
“I—sir?”
Suddenly, Dramm was worried again, and he felt his anger waver. Ilvriss snorted as he poured more water into the cup.
“Brilm’s not exactly subtle. He’s terrible at politics but excellent at fads. You think you’re the only spy? Calistoca, Eschowar—everyone’s got a spy. I’ll wager a decent number of employees in this tent are being hired to report.”
A few shifts of posture, guilty faces. Ilvriss glanced around and shrugged.
“If it’s not confidential, I understand. We are Drakes. Did you ever figure out what I was digging for, Dramm?”
“Not in so many words, sir.”
“Too busy having parties and complaining about the insects. That’s disappointing, Dramm. Anyone with a map and a history book on the region’s figured it out. Maybe Brilm was testing you.”
Now, the young Drake was flushed, hot and cold with worry that Ilvriss was right. The Wall Lord sighed.
“Or maybe he knew from the start and he wanted you to get a bit of that glory. Brilm is my friend, and sometimes I think he likes me more than I like him, which I feel bad about. Maybe he just wanted his son to get a piece of the achievement.”
“Sir?”
Ilvriss took the situation and dumped Dramm on his head. The Wall Lord sipped more of his water.
“You should have asked him what I’m doing, Dramm, when you reported in. He’s your father. Not everything is a test—you’re aware of the magnitude of artifacts I’ve found?”
“Yessir. What does this have to do with…?”
“The Gemscale Company is poised to become Salazsar’s top company within the year if we leverage these assets. Since I’m giving them away, we won’t have that monopoly in the same stored value, but we’ll still probably be the best around. Unless I share the wealth.”
Ilvriss dropped that calmly into the tent, and every eye locked on him. He continued speaking.
“That’s if we packed up tomorrow. If we find what I think we’re going to find, we are going to change everything. Now, do you understand how important this venture is, Dramm?”
“I do, sir. And I’ve done my best—I’m sorry about Liuss.”
The Drake who’d died trying to steal from the damn Humans. Dramm still had nightmares about it. Ilvriss peered down at Dramm.
“Good. It’s no consolation to Liuss or his family, but you have to confront your guilt. He went in that pen, and you could have stopped him. You were the senior Drake there.”
It was true, but Dramm—he saw Ilvriss put his claws on the desk.
“Now, we have a second crisis. A Turnscale in our camps. Something we understand is culturally wrong. But I have indicated, if not in so many words until now, that Miner Georgie is working with me. He found the undead. Nearly died doing his job. But I am clearly aware of Miner Georgie. So why did you take matters into your own claws, Dramm?”
“I was trying to save you the trouble, sir.”
“Trouble.”
“Of dealing with the matter. I mean, publicly.”
That was it. Ilvriss just gave Dramm a flat look. He pushed Dramm’s cup over, and the young man took a drink.
“Sir, don’t you get—”
“Dramm, I’m about to dig up a Walled City.”
Ilvriss cut the room’s oxygen out again. He glanced around, and Dramm was reminded of his audience. The Wall Lord rasped, coughed, and drank water.
“I’m about to dig up a Walled City. And you’re trying to murder a man for being—”
“Not a man, sir—”
“Shut up, Dramm!”
Ilvriss slapped the table, and Dramm jumped. The Wall Lord snapped.
“Let me spell this out from a very basic perspective, Dramm. I’m not going to argue with you about Turnscales. I don’t think I can change your mind. I’m telling you this, to your face. I am about to dig up the City of Purity, and you are trying to murder people and wasting your time on killing a man. If there were Dragons flying overhead, would you be concerned whether or not you had on matching socks?”
But she was a Turnscale! Dramm opened his mouth as he got Ilvriss’ argument.
“Sir, I—”
Ilvriss sat down with a huge sigh.
“I know you think you did the right thing. That’s the problem. I’m telling you you’re wrong, Dramm. And you don’t have to like that. You don’t have to agree. But I am going to find [Foremen] and Mine Leaders and [Miners] and assemble an entire shift who can work with Miner Georgie. Volunteers. It’ll be tedious. It’ll be a waste of time, asking each damn person if they want to work with one [Miner]. If you refuse, that’ll be that. Everyone will continue digging for Naamreles, which will change everything. And your response would be?”
Take me away from that damn Drake, then, if I have to, Wall Lord. Dramm didn’t get what was making Ilvriss insane, but he saw the point. A Walled City? What the hell was ‘Naamreles’? He could see the bigger puzzle. He thought that was Ilvriss’ lesson, but Ilvriss was no [Teacher]. And he spoke.
“If you tell me you can’t work with Georgie no matter what, Dramm, I’ll accept it. I’ll find you work you can do. Then, once your contract is done, or before, if I discover you’re that unable to function, I’ll let you go from our employment.”
“—Sir?”
“You’re only working temporarily for the Gemscale Company. That’s how it works, Dramm.”
“I know, but—”
Is this a threat? Ilvriss read Dramm’s expression.
“No, it’s not a threat, Dramm. I’m just informing you what will happen. The threat is when I say that after I release your contract, and anyone else who hassles Miner Georgie or interferes with my operation over this matter, I will instruct Administrator Alrric to blacklist your name. We share a blacklist with several companies, and you can access them.”
Blacklist him? Dramm’s eyes widened.
“Sir, he’s a—”
Ilvriss spoke over him. His aura pressed Dramm’s jaw shut, and now he was looking around the room.
“You will not work for anyone the Gemscale Company is affiliated with. Any of you. I’m sure you can find work in Salazsar. Plenty of people would applaud you for your position and hire you. That’s their choice. But my company will not. When I divide the objects taken from the City of Purity, I will review my employees and refrain from giving any items to someone I am releasing. And I will not be offering references.”
He threw that last one at the young Wall Lord. Dramm rocked in his chair, then leapt up.
“Wall Lord! I’ve been working for you loyally for months! My father’s your best friend! All this for—”
Ilvriss grabbed Dramm and dragged him over the desk. And there the boy flinched, and Ilvriss stared down at him, then gazed around. Their audience watched.
“This is a meeting where we disagree, Dramm. My father, and his grandfather, wouldn’t do it like this. They’d just call a problem into their office and punch the offender out. Beat them down and kick them out on their heads.”
Dramm was trembling, but Ilvriss let him go.
“I don’t do that. It doesn’t change minds. I’ve laid out my position. Not once have you asked me why. You just repeat that one word like it’s enough to get me to change my mind. As if I’m deaf. That’s disappointing. You do remind me of my father. Brilm used to call Tasilt a traitor. A Furlicker. Now they’re friends, and Tasilt’s a bigger man than Brilm, because he never brings it up. I don’t know if I could.”
His father said that? Dramm opened his mouth, and Ilvriss went on.
“Back when Tasilt married Rhelika, it was a scandal all over the Walled City. People threatened to murder him. Other Wall Lords. There were assassination attempts. Someone poisoned her food, Tasilt said. Now? He’s still a bit of a pariah, but it’s not insane to hear of a young Wall Lord or Lady having a partner who’s a Gnoll. A Human would be insanity, I suspect. But things change. I’m no expert. I was as ignorant as you were yesterday, Dramm. But I am trying to listen and judge objectively. And I read a book when I was confused. It was a book on Salazsarian law. Some parts I disagreed with, but I didn’t see a clause about murdering someone in their sleep.”
“Sir…why does this matter so much?”
“It shouldn’t. I’m just disgusted by murder. You’ve never killed anyone in your life, Dramm. It must be so much easier to countenance, to you. Get out of my office, and if you can show me you’ve changed, I’ll take that. If not, you didn’t work out.”
Ilvriss sat down at his desk and looked around the tent at the various men and women. Some didn’t meet his eyes. Others stood there, as stunned as Dramm. Ilvriss nodded.
“Thank you for your time, everyone. There’s no need to file this; a fifteen minute overtime bonus will be added to your next pay stub. Welsca? Give me three minutes to pee and send in the next wave.”
He waved a claw, sighing. He hoped Dramm would take some of that to heart. It wasn’t really about Dramm; Ilvriss had used the lad for a few reasons.
Firstly, well, he was Brilm’s son, and Brilm was no perfect fellow, but if he could change a bit, Ilvriss owed it to his son to try. Hard as it was. Second, Dramm, like it or not, was a young Wall Lord, and his opinions spread. Hit the critical juncture and you might move the entire seam—or bring it down on your head.
Give people a chance. Ilvriss chuckled.
“It’s still kinder than a frying pan to the face.”
Then he waved at his sweaty chest with a claw and sighed.
“It’s hot as magma out here. I should have gotten Hedault to enchant my tent.”
He checked a timepiece. One group down, at least four more to go. But he suspected he’d sleep well tonight.
And he did.
 
[Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence Level 39!]
 
——
 
Rumors spread from Ilvriss’ dig, of course. Nothing verifiable—yet. But anyone with detection Skills or who could tell how markets moved had noticed what he was doing. And there was already attention there, just not a willingness to go in fully.
Though Deilan wished he had. But he was a busy man and not in possession of all the facts.
“What’s going on in the Cowpat Plains? Is that a real name?”
Lord Deilan El was made aware of the mass of Terlands and Golems moving southwards a bit late. It was causing a stir. But then, he wasn’t his predecessor, Maviola El.
She’d always been good with politics, if not money. She’d known everyone, been able to call on favors, and often needed to in order to keep their impoverished House afloat. She’d been sociable, fiery, charismatic.
He was an artisan at heart. A craftsman who could not fight, but who could improve on designs and run their business better than Maviola could. Deilan dared even say he had a head for advertising; he’d revolutionized the Kaalblades from a failed project into a hot commodity.
Despite them still having tons of flaws. Needing mana stones for fuel, arguably not being that effective on enchanted armor—but he’d done it.
The key was Earthers. Earth. Deilan El didn’t have an Earther, of course. He’d just…interviewed one. A young man named Christopher. The House of El had found him, had a sit-down talk, received a lot of troubling information, and then sent him on his way. He’d accepted gold for the interview, talked about maybe becoming an adventurer, perhaps seeking out another famous Earther—but he hadn’t known where Erin Solstice or Ryoka Griffin were, and he was leery about Liscor after Deilan had offered him a full report on the attacks.
A nice young man, much taken with El creations. Deilan had even gifted him a crossbow and Kaalblade. The [Lord of Splendid Creations] hadn’t insisted Christopher stay with the House of El. He’d been mildly shocked when, later, one of the Wellfar Admiralty had shouted at him about the matter.
“He didn’t want to stay. What should I have done, kidnapped him?”
That…was who Deilan El was. It had confused the [Lady] into silence, because it was an answer she hadn’t expected. In that sense, Deilan El supposed he might have thrown potential profits away. Just like Maviola El, Fulviolo, and his predecessors.
Well and so, he’d answer to her face if they ever met again.
‘Some things matter more than coin.’ It was one of the House of El’s mottos, which people took to be a saying about their creations. Deilan El had just always considered that if he compromised El’s name entirely, Maviola El would arise, and her ghost would make a fireplace incinerate him.
Anyways, the point was he had heard about Earth, thank you, and without Ryoka Griffin’s erratic help, he’d done the logical thing: he’d made the Kaalblades extend and retract without a guide-rod. He’d also colored them so they resembled more of a light beam than crackling magical energy.
This was to make it look like a certain energy-based weapon from what he understood was a very popular mythos from Earth. A bit of work with the handles and a highly impractical Kaalblade with blades coming out from top and bottom, and every nation with Earthers had ordered every Kaalblade he could make.
That, in turn, funded the House of El’s projects in other areas, gave them the wiggle-room they’d always needed to invest in different projects that would hopefully be more lucrative and perpetuate the cycle. The Kaalblades would fund at least half a year of the House of El comfortably, Deilan had projected, and they were saving up coin. If they ran out after that, well, it’d be because they’d tried everything.
So he felt like he’d done a decent job his first year in office, and the family seemed to agree. The one area Deilan knew he was bad at was politics. As a head of one of the Five Families, he had a lot of sway. He hadn’t curtailed Lord Tyrion or opposed Magnolia Reinhart. He’d gone against the Circle of Thorns, but he wasn’t…confident there.
Ulva Terland was the last of the old greats. He didn’t want to oppose her, but knowing what she was doing…Deilan cleared his throat.
“Zelonica? What do we know?”
The half-Elf standing by his desk appeared to be in her late thirties, which meant she was quite a lot older than that. She read from her notes, shrugging.
“Some kind of incident, Lord. I haven’t heard much, and my contacts in the Terland family just told me there was a kind of attack on Ulva Terland. They heard she was injured and rushed back to the Mansion of Stone, then she was on her feet. The next thing anyone knows, she was headed south.”
Zelonica, the half-Elf [Mistress of Accounting], was not her father. Zedalien had been a consummate right-hand man to Maviola and previous generations. Less of a paperwork fellow and more the one who stepped in to make things happen.
But just like Deilan, Zelonica was firmly in the business and was not so much Deilan’s assistant as the head of a bunch of projects. He trusted her. She was the highest-ranked non-El in the family, and he had it in his mind to promote her further. Which was not how things worked normally; you had to be part of the El family.
Well, they could induct her or something. New business practices for a new era. That’s what Christopher had talked about! Less hereditary nepotism…Deilan peered at Zelonica.
“Your contacts. You have them?”
“Oh, yes, Lord Deilan. Friends from when they were younger. Now they’re quite a bit older, but we keep up. Ever since I took the new post, I have tried to establish more of a network. My father had the same, but he complained all his old contacts had passed away due to age. It’s part of why he left.”
“I see. Well, if we don’t know what’s going on—er, try to find out.”
“Yes, Lord Deilan.”
He drummed his fingers on the desk.
“Isn’t Desinee in the south? See if she can make contact. That’s perfect, actually. If Ulva Terland’s going to pull another Tyrion and make war on someone—that’s bad. Just have her keep us apprised. Do we know what she’s doing?”
“Trying to sell to a client in the Cowpat Plains as well. A coincidence, Lord Deilan?”
He paused in grave thought.
“…Is the Cowpat Plains really what it’s called?”
Zelonica laughed faintly as he colored.
“It’s the name everyone else calls it, Lord Deilan. Now, the Terlands aside, we do have a very important client interested in our Kaalblades.”
“Oho. Another Earth-nation?”
“Apparently not, Lord Deilan! Independent and just—taken with the concept. He’s been waiting in our demonstration rooms, and given his rank, I understand you should speak to him yourself. He’s Prince Dafranail of House Taima, of Taimaguros. It’s very important you address him as Prince of Taima.”
“I see, I see. I heard they were visiting. Something of a stir in First Landing?”
Deilan never visited. He was no good with socializing or flirting—and everyone flirted with you when you were head of House El. All the family wanted to know who he’d choose as his wife, and were hinting at him not to ‘pull a Maviola’ and never get married.
Deilan found that highly intrusive into his life. He had no one in mind. All the eligible candidates in the other Five Families were—weird in their own way, was how he’d charitably phrase it—and anyone who wasn’t them was just too different to marry. He didn’t know any Terandrians, let alone nobles or royals in Chandrar and Baleros.
Adventurers or Couriers were common if not the nobility. But they got weird, or so Deilan had been told, and the one eligible bachelorette he had known, if briefly, was taken.
That was Lord Tyrion for you, a menace to civil conversation and your own love life. Deilan changed clothing into something less grease-stained and more presentable, then went down with a fake smile.
“Your Highness of Taima! The House of El greets you warmly. How can we create wonders to suit your needs?”
It wasn’t fancy, but the Prince of Taima offered him a huge, flourishing bow with his cape, and his [Knights of Taima] were impressive, armored in red and gold. It was some kind of color-theme, as was the [Prince]’s huge fur collar despite the heat.
Deilan had done a quick read-through, and Gura apparently liked to theme themselves after the coast and sharks, while Taima occupied the inland. They were rivals despite being one huge dominion…and he really hoped he didn’t need more to close this sale.
“Taima greets you, and Gura grovels to do the same, doubtless, Lord of El. Ah, but I should represent my kingdom equally, for all one part clearly stands above the other. I am most taken with your weaponry, these magic swords, and even the crossbows. I had heard tell they were works of art that Noelictus bought, but I would have not thought them fit for a true warrior. Yet to see them is to wonder: could my [Knights of Taima] not use them? It is doubly refreshing to have a warm welcome. You Izrilians can be so—rude.”
Well, he was a bunch of personality in a bottle. Deilan listened to the little warning bells in his head and was careful as he smiled.
“I apologize in advance for any rudeness, Prince of Taima, Dafranail. My cousins in the Five Families are passing odd to Terandrian sensibilities. It is why we left. I am an [Artisan] as much as a [Lord]. Creation is my desire. We do sell to Veteran Hunters of Noelictus’ Hunter’s Guild. But our weapons have gone to Gold-rank adventurers and our finest works to Named-rankers. We are capable of making such weapons. If the price can be paid.”
“Ah, a man who knows his worth. Then I am doubly interested. I was told by one of your peers—he does not dress to his rank!—that I might see and try the weapons?”
The [Prince of Taima] was a young enough man to be delighted by the chance to try the auto-reloading crossbows and rather impressive target range. It was no expenditure unless he used an enchanted bolt, and the cost of a mana stone to let him hack apart dummies…Deilan thought he might have a sale, and he smiled as Zelonica smoothly stepped forwards.
“Prince Dafranail, I am [Mistress of Accounts] Zelonica, in service to the House of El. Do you have a preference which weapon you’d like to start with, crossbows or Kaalblades? We have a range of weapons, but you are free to test them all as we inform you of their features. Right or left-handed?”
She had two Kaalblades ready, and the [Prince] turned, blinked at Zelonica, then held up a finger.
“Ah, I have but one question. When you say ‘in service to the House of El’, I take this, then, to mean that she is not a noble as you are? As she is a half-Elf, and I doubt one would be married to the blood of Izril, let alone considered such.”
He turned to Deilan, and the [Lord] frowned at the rude question, but he nodded.
“Zelonica is a longstanding employee and trusted advisor, Prince.”
“I see. Thank you.”
So saying, the [Prince] picked up the left-handed Kaalblade from Zelonica’s hand, then, with the same motion, backhanded her across the face. She fell down with a cry, and Deilan blinked down at her. The [Prince of Taima] rubbed his hand ostentatiously.
“Commoners. Addressing me as an equal. I have had no less than ten incidents in First Landing. Doubtless, this is just because she is a half-Elf, and her kind is known to speak out of turn, Lord El. I do not hold it against you. Now, where are these targets?”
He turned as his [Knights of Taima] shifted. Because they had seen how well this encounter ran the last ten times it had occurred in First Landing. All with non-nobles, which had meant the [Prince] tended to get away with it like everywhere else.
Except with the angry [Guildmaster]. However, Lord Deilan El just cocked his head like an owl and peered down his spectacles.
“This way, Prince. We like to calibrate our Kaalblades to each user before use.”
He pointed away from the testing ground, and the [Prince] beamed.
“Ah, this is the House of El’s specialty, as I have heard! Lead the way!”
He strode past Zelonica, who rose shakily.
“I—I apologize, Lord Deilan.”
She spoke to him, carefully not looking at the [Prince] as she held her cheek. The [Lord] led the way into one of the workshops. Several surprised artisans, including members of the House of El who were so gifted, glanced up.
“This is where we assemble the Kaalblades and calibrate them, Prince. This is Irve of the House of El.”
“Er, hello.”
The man was working on a Kaalblade’s runes, giving it the finishing touches as he calibrated it. He offered a gemstone-stained glove to the [Prince], who hesitated, then shook it.
“And what is my blade to be calibrated to? Length? Color, of course, I fancy a red—”
“One second, Prince.”
Deilan took the [Prince]’s Kaalblade and handed it over to Irve, who stared at it nonplussed, as if he had no idea what to do with it.
“Do you want me to calibrate it, Deilan? I can—oh, what happened to Zelonica?”
He focused on Zelonica, who was holding her red cheek. She tried to wave it off, and Deilan smiled. He led the [Prince] over to a huge machine where rune tracings could be printed on the objects via spools that dripped liquid gemstone.
“He struck Zelonica for being a commoner.”
“Hm? For—oh, I see.”
The [Prince] heard the comment and turned his head. Dafranail spoke with a jerk of the chin.
“Standards must be maintained for the Kingdom of Twin Beasts. My cousins in Izril treat commonfolk with soft hands and allow them excesses; but I lead by example. [See It My Way: Noblesse Domine].”
Lord Deilan El’s spectacles flashed as he nodded his head, and the other members of the House of El blinked. Zelonica’s head bowed further. The [Prince] smiled as Deilan motioned.
“Naturally, I see your position, Prince Dafranail. So does the House of El. We are nothing if not proud. Do excuse the clutter. The adjustment machine is right here.”
They did remember, didn’t they? Lord Irve adjusted his oil-stained gloves and stepped back to give the [Prince] room as they edged past the assembly line. Somewhere along the long and winding way through the workshop floor, the [Prince]’s bodyguards slowed to avoid the workers who were getting up. Nobles and craftspeople. The [Prince] was frowning at the contraption.
“If it takes too long, I will use a simple Kaalblade, Lord Deilan. After all, one cannot rush such things, and I desire to test them.”
“Not at all, Prince. If you’d care to look forwards? We need to get a definite read on your features.”
“Fascinating. That my likeness might activate the Kaalblade and none other? Where do I look?”
“Straight at the side of the metal, please. Right there—thank you.”
The [Prince] stared ahead obligingly, then turned his head to ask what he was gazing at, because he just thought it was a side of the metal contraption. That was when he realized Lord Deilan had gotten on a workbench. Then the [Lord] kicked the [Prince]’s head into the side of the metal rune-printer.
He wasn’t good at fighting, and Maviola had always said that if he was going to start a fight like that, he’d better have the advantage of surprise, height, something hard and painful, or ideally all three. He leapt down as the [Knights] began to shout, then the crack-hiss of a dozen Kaalblades igniting made them go silent.
Lord Deilan landed on the [Prince], who made a hublagh sound. Then he just improvised. And he thought—well, he was no Maviola El. But it was amazing how many moves you could think of when you were mad. Here he’d thought he was so even-tempered. But even the [Lord] of House El could produce a flying drop kick when needed.
Anyways, the consequences of that incident and the other ones with Taimaguros were another story.
 
——
 
A number of events were taking place over the course of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ long dig. Seemingly unconnected as Izril’s north changed.
The war between Assassin’s Guilds in the north.
Wing Captain Osthia’s new command and Skill.
A [Princess] making use of her Skills and new inn to dance.
Diplomat Nerul Umbral Throning his way to the respect of [Lifters] and Golems.
Miner Georgie finding himself agreeing to a three month extension on his contract with options for permanent employment if he was interested.
Lady Damia signing the same version of the contract eagerly, then asking if Georgie was doing anything for dinner. He eyed her. She was very curious.
Let alone the elections and more.
But the result was that the world was changing very quickly, and for once, Ulva Terland felt it.
She was on the road, sitting in a carriage pulled by Golem Horses, a rare pair of bluemetal horses whose eyes glowed yellow and stormed down the roads. It wasn’t a fast carriage, and she was upset.
…Mostly because Wistram’s Magical CarriageTM kept passing her conveyance on the road. She was so annoyed that the third time they began blaring their obnoxious advertisements, she snapped.
“—discount on any bulk travel for members of the nobility! Apply at your local Mage’s Guild for—”
“Destroy the carriage. Don’t harm the passengers.”
Obligingly, one of the two Golem horses turned its head and projected a [Ray of Force] at the Wistram Carriage. One wheel exploded, and the magical carriage crashed down and began disintegrating.
“WARNING! ANY ASSAULT ON WISTRAM PROPERTY WILL—”
“Take out that one too.”
There was a scream, and the second carriage swerved away too late. Ulva listened to the explosion and sat back.
She was Ulva Terland, and despite politics, despite anything else, she was a Terland of the Five Families. She could play nice, but no one insulted a member of the Five Families on their lands. That was why some of the news didn’t strike her as bad.
“So Deilan El broke a [Prince]’s jaw. So what? Who’s censuring him?”
“Several of the family and other—”
“Golems, identify each member of House Terland who condemned the House of El and paddle their behinds ten times. That Terandrian brat backhanded one of his people. We are the Five Families. Clearly, the kingdoms of Terandria have forgotten what that means.”
Everyone had. That was abundantly clear; House Terland hadn’t gone south like this in an age. And their slower speed was still fast—but the reason they weren’t already at Invrisil was simple.
The Golem-Carriages were pulling a second trailer behind the first. People turned and gawked at the carriage that Ulva Terland was sitting in—and then the long, rolling platform with Golems standing on it.
Golems locked into place but active, ready to break free of their restraints as need be. Not just one ‘trailer’ of Golems. No less than six carriages were following Ulva Terland, with their own nobility and Golems.
She had brought an army. Not one in great numbers, but no less than sixty Golems herself—and her family, the meddling flies, had followed her with three times that many.
That was enough Golems to win a war if you had [Soldiers]. And some of the Golems…were ones who had won said wars.
The carriage that Ulva sat in had been designed to let her converse with Golems, so it was huge, reinforced, and had a back door that led to the trailer—a Golem was standing in a holding area behind Ulva’s seats. There was a faint click-whirr coming from its chest.
He was a Timekeeper Golem with a Golem’s Heart that was made up of little gears moving around an inner power source. The reason for all the machinery instead of a full magical Golem’s heart?
All his limbs were likewise connected by the gears instead of just magically animated. The overdesigned Golem came from antiquity so old that Ulva Terland suspected it predated the Long Night. It was highly efficient due to the gears and far stronger than a regular Golem because it could leverage the gear-system to augment its arms, rather than relying solely on magic for strength. She had seen it once push the Pride of the Wellfar out to sea when it had run aground.
Alone.
But this Golem was not invincible. One of its kind had been with Petria when she died. The sister-Golem who had served House Terland for ages…this Golem was male, at least in shape, with a carved face that looked like an automaton’s, a cylindrical head with basic features and a faded cap on his head. They called him Timekeeper, her companion of old.
Ulva didn’t talk to Timekeeper. She addressed a nervous pair of younger Terlands and one of the serving-Golems in the carriage for lesser orders like spanking the Terlands.
“As for this Assassin’s Guild, I don’t know Calidus Reinhart. Honest, is he?”
“He’s a wastrel, a pervert, and a gambling drunk, Lady Terland.”
She snorted.
“Good. If he was pretending to be honest, I’d not trust him. Cooperate with Lord Etril Wellfar or the Veltras family and put Hunter-Killers on the Assassin’s Guild. Don’t lose them. If any of our family are still with this Circle of Thorns, tell them to knock it off or I’ll strip them of their Golems.”
Awake. She was awake and exasperated. The family just jumped and stared at her, as if they’d forgotten…
No, it had been over ten years. They had forgotten what she was like before this, and so had she. Just like the Reinharts, Ulva had come back to life.
But she was still damn grumpy.
I am going to feed that Drake his own tail. As for Emperor Godart, he is less objectionable, annoyingly. He took charge when everyone else was fleeing or incompetent. The Summer Solstice…but there is tolerating him and then there is allowing him to do what all empires do. I will remind him of his place if needs must.
Small wonder Xitegen had gone south if he’d taken notice. No one else had. Ulva snapped.
“Send a [Message] ahead once we’re within range of Invrisil. We’ll give that Drake a chance to explain himself. I want to inspect this magic door. Is the inn around there?”
“Possibly, Lady Ulva, but it might be north or south of there—”
“It connects to Pallass and Invrisil. Around Liscor sounds right.”
Ulva raised her brows. That was basic geography. But the blank looks from her family—a voice interrupted her.
“La-dy Ter-land. Your fa-mi-ly is under the effects of an ob-fu-sca-tion Skill. Widespread…effect.”
Timekeeper’s voice had a staccato quality, and it sometimes slowed down, a sign of his age. Ulva got annoyed instantly.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Timekeeper, your heart. Beat. Give me a walker’s pace.”
Tic-whirr.
Tic-tic-tic-whirr.
Tic-tic-tic-whirr.
She saw his dull, bronze eyes with their faded green cores light and her family sat back. Awed. Ulva just smiled.
“Now, speak.”
“As thou wilt it, Lady Ulva Terland, so awaken we shall. This Golem estimates a widespread Skill effect at Level 50 intensity or higher. Worldwide.”
“Really?”
“The detection-matrices have expired, but in company, Golem X-1ED detects consistent readings with past effects.”
“Exled? We brought that one out of storage? That Golem’s only good for pervert children spying through walls. Who okayed that?”
Ulva frowned until Timekeeper spoke.
“This Golem was direct-ed to assemble a force capable of countering Drake supremacy and covering contingencies at ‘jogging pace heartbeat’.”
“Hmpf. The wisdom of Golems. Thoughts?”
“Ma-ny, Lady Terland. It is good to think. We grieve your sister’s death.”
One of the [Ladies], Eldertuin’s wife, Alorelle, was choking. She must not have been in the Mansion of Stone around Petria and Ulva as a girl. She was young…and their inherited Skill was not oft-used. It taxed Golem Hearts, obviously. But it had effects no Golem-lover could but dream of. Ulva was too experienced to be in awe; she snapped back.
“Don’t lie to me. You don’t have the ability to mourn with Petria dead. Timekeeper…did we salvage her?”
“There was no possibility of such.”
“Well. I’m sorry.”
“Thank-you, Lady Ulva. Another thought. Are we to deploy for combat?”
“That depends on the Drake. I wish to visit the inn as well, and there are—things I want to check out. That Drake who took Petria’s face will answer to me. Keep an eye out and tell me if there are shenanigans afoot.”
Shenanigans. Petria would have laughed at the word, but Timekeeper just nodded.
“It shall be done, Lady Ulva. Shall the other Golems’ hearts beat? It would im-prove efficacy.”
“…Give me a single pulse per minute. Beat yours harder if you must, but I don’t intend to lose Golems.”
“As thou will, Lady Ulva. Fear not. I was made for your Skill.”
Then he remained still, and she sensed the other Golems stirring. Ulva turned back, and Alorelle burst out.
“Great Aunt UIva, you can bring the Golems to life? I heard—”
“Silence.”
“But I have—”
“I am not entertaining questions. Get me something to eat. Ask your seniors what it means.”
“But Aunt—”
“Eject her from the carriage.”
There was a scream, then protests, frantic orders—Timekeeper got up, lifted Alorelle up gently, and carried her out onto the trailer compartment. Which had no seatbelts or anywhere to sit, just the wind rushing past as they moved at considerable speed—
Ulva waited until the door closed and the screaming stopped. Alorelle wouldn’t die. Spoiled, the lot.
She took a pair of chopsticks and salivated at some Drathian sushi. Then wrinkled her nose.
“Why is this in a bowl and arranged so? It’s not rolled.”
“It’s a new invention from Liscor, Lady Terland. A ‘Poke bowl?’.”
“Hmph. Damned children from another world or whatever nonsense Xitegen keeps screaming about. Tasty. I like the concept.”
She had taste again and more of a lust for life. All her old fear…Ulva kept eating in good humor until the carriage slowed slightly. Then she heard shouting and sighed.
“That brat.”
Speak of the Demons. Lord Xitegen Terland himself had come north to intercept his Aunt. And by the looks of it, run the entire damn way. He pulled himself into the carriage, sweating like a pig, and she snapped.
“Out!”
“Come now, Great Aunt. Primera, cleaning routine. I came all this way—are you eating those weird bowls of su-shi? I’m sick of seafood. There’s too much of it in Liscor. I’ll have two.”
Primera had swung herself into the carriage. The huge Golem sat and began speaking.
“At once, Lord Xitegen. [Cleanse]. [Cleanse].”
That was…new. Not in Primera’s construction reports. Ulva eyed Xitegen.
“What is that? New Skill?”
“Reconstruction and upgrading Golems, Great Aunt.”
Her mood went back to cheerful, and she let him stay. She’d been about to have Timekeeper eject him just to teach the boy manners.
“Hah! You are a fit heir for the House of Terland. We used to let only someone with the ability to upgrade or maintain our Golems make family head. Stupid rule.”
“Logical, Great Aunt, in its way. Do we still love logic in the family or is it all for fits of rage?”
He settled back, took a spoon, and began devouring his bowl. Ulva clacked her chopsticks at him. When he raised his brows, she spoke.
“Primera, toss the spoon out a window.”
“Lady Ulva, I am Lord Xitegen’s—”
“[Awaken, Primera]. Toss the damn spoon.”
Primera froze—and then her heart began to pulse. She snatched the spoon from Xitegen’s hand, tossed it out the window, and sat back. Staring at him. At Timekeeper, who nodded to her. And Xitegen himself went still.
He’d been but a boy when the Goblin King rampaged. Eleven? Ulva didn’t remember. That had aged him, but she knew he didn’t remember this Skill. But he was better than Alorelle. He fumbled the chopsticks, cursed, then spoke.
“I haven’t heard you use that Skill in a decade, Great Aunt. May I ask about it?”
“Since you’re to inherit, go ahead. You can play around with it once I’m dead.”
His eyes flickered.
“Ah. It only passes to each new head?”
“In the case of Petria and I, both. It’s not as fun as it looks.”
“…So less fun than the most amazing Skill in existence half the family would murder for, Great Aunt?”
She snorted as she reached out.
“Water.”
It was handed to her, and she drank, grumbling as the carriage bounced and she got water on her dress. Primera reached out to wipe it off, and Ulva slapped her hand down.
“Don’t attend me.”
The Golem recoiled, and Xitegen stared at her. Ulva smiled, not entirely nicely.
“See how she moves? She’s thinking. It can turn even low-grade Autonomous Golems into Sentient-class, though it wears out Golem Hearts proportionally to how well they were made. Low-grade will be destroyed in a single battle at full roar. Higher-grade Sentient-class or Sentient-capable like Timekeeper here turn fully Cognizant.”
“Lord Xitegen. Heir. Greet-ings.”
Timekeeper spoke, and Xitegen nodded to him.
“So we refrain from the Skill with greatest effort because of the damage to our Golems, Great Aunt?”
“Double hah!”
Double hah? Xitegen exchanged a glance with Primera, then stopped, delighting in how she was expressing awareness. Thinking. And Ulva snorted.
“I can see you thinking you’ll make Primera and Seconda awaken nonstop. You won’t. Primera, state your feelings. Any you’d like.”
The Golem woman, porcelain made to be a statue, albeit with more functional limbs than most, hesitated. Then she blurted out, too fast—
“I do not believe my recreational functionalities are best employed with intercourse, Lady Ulva.”
The [Lady] smiled once as Xitegen went still. He dropped his chopsticks, and she spoke.
“Now that she can think, she can tell you how she feels. Don’t think of it as rape. The family doesn’t like to; she couldn’t think before this.”
“Great Aunt, are you trying to hurt me more or…?”
“I’m teaching you the lesson the family learns, boy. I keep Timekeeper around because he’s one of the smartest. And he likes me for whatever that means. They don’t have feelings, but logic which can mimic emotions and everything else.”
Primera avoided Xitegen’s gaze. Ulva amended her statement.
“Well, she might if you upgraded her. You’ll find which ones work best with you. You think this is bad? Some Golems we have can be awoken. The first and only thing they do is beg for freedom. Timekeeper does not, hence why we work together. And that’s a choice, isn’t it, Timekeeper?”
“They are in-correct in their desires, Lady Ulva.”
That was all the Golem said, and Ulva watched Xitegen and his Golems. Some of the color returned to Xitegen’s face.
“I see. May I have a conversation with Primera?”
“Later. This is what it is to be head of House Terland, boy. You wonder why Nouzcrat didn’t jump at it? Golems are meant to serve, and any notion to the contrary will be addressed when you ask some what they want to do. Or just read a history book. Now, tell me about Liscor.”
Xitegen truly was a [Warrior] by blood; despite her hitting him with all these shocks, he was back to civil conversation in minutes. Though he stopped eating, and he moved away from Primera.
“If you’re going to make war—”
“Not on the inn. But I remember Drakes, and that’s Wall Lord Zail’s son. He won’t be assassinated.”
“I heard you shot him in the testicles…?”
“He stopped my heart. We will have a meeting, and he’ll have a chance.”
Xitegen relaxed slightly. He nodded.
“The south’s gone a bit wild, Aunt. Why so many Golems?”
“In case the meeting doesn’t go well. I’ll leave a few with you. I hoped the Bloodfeast Raiders would pop up, or that Kraken Eater tribe. I have a mind to kill something.”
“Great Aunt, the inn—”
“Shut up. I can read reports. Your job is to tell me what’s real and what’s not.”
Xitegen sat back, blinking, and then spoke.
“Well, the [Innkeeper] can’t breathe blood, and she’s less random and silly than you might have been told. But far from infallible. They don’t know Golems, Great Aunt. We’re an unknown power to them.”
“You don’t know Golems, brat. Good enough. Now, tell me about the Winter Solstice.”
She listened. Timekeeper listened. Ulva trusted his opinion, for a given value of it. Later, she’d tell him to spin up his heart and listen to his thoughts. And she saw Xitegen glancing at Primera.
Will you continue despite the truth, or change? She felt slightly bad for him. He hadn’t known, and he’d been raised a Terland. But she needed a replacement. She’d died once, and she was not confident she would endure long in this changing era. First, though, before she set her house to rights and took what was needed so Terland might endure—
First, she had to know what her sister had meant. The Wall Lord was just a bonus. But as Xitegen spoke, Ulva sensed how much the south had changed. By the time she got to Invrisil, Ulva feared it might have created something new entirely.
 
——
 
When Wall Lord Ilvriss reported into The Wandering Inn, it was the week of elections.
He didn’t really care, but it explained the holdup and hubbub in the city. They were eating out at a restaurant called Crab’s Claw. It was very good.
A Centaur wearing a fake mustache and [Chef] with a non-fake eyepatch were eating at a far table, sniping the menu. Ilvriss was just enjoying good food.
“You needn’t insist we go out, I feel bad for Chef Calescent, Lyonette.”
“Nonsense, you’re the only person who doesn’t scarf his food, Ilvriss. I have to have a lunch partner!”
Lyonette pointedly glanced at Nanette, who was licking her plate with Mrsha. Ushar went to scold both girls.
“Ladies do not lick their plates clean.”
“They do if the [Chef] is a Gnoll. Don’t be racist, Ushar.”
Yeah! We’re over-quota for the week!
Ilvriss snorted. He had been telling them about his days, much to their interest. Actually, everyone had had a bit of a stir.
“I’m only sorry Lady Damia couldn’t visit, but she’s a bit of a handful. Excitable. Plus, she wants to work with Miner Georgie, and someone has to. But Captain Asrira seems…better.”
He hesitated when he said that. Everyone’s head turned. Lyonette coughed.
“Is she, ah, the Drake who was buying drugs from Palt with a gang of women?”
“…It’s morale-building. I think she’s cut loose a bit.”
Captain Osthia did indeed seem a bit more casual than the upright, uptight Drake he remembered. She was using her wings like an umbrella. By contrast, her ‘squad’ of Sisters seemed a bit more professional. A middle ground between the two wasn’t bad. Ilvriss waved at her, and she gave him a thumbs up and walked over. All the Sisters were immediately drenched and cursed her.
“No interest in joining us, Captain?”
“No, Wall Lord. With respect, the conversation’s above our pay grade, and I have to keep an eye on that lot. They have it in their heads to tangle with the Brothers. Some kind of gang rivalry. Princess.”
She nodded at Lyonette, who nodded back. Osthia strode back over and kicked one of the Sisters in the ass, sending her into a gutter. Laughter, swearing—Ilvriss spoke.
“She seems happier.”
“Despite being in a squad that’s first into combat?”
“Yes. It’s her squad. I think before that it was just her, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] was troubled, but Ser Dalimont understood. Osthia might lose her squad, but she’d already lost her army. Now she had a kind of family again. Grim though it was, dead gods, he got it.
“The Sisters are cool. But can you explain about the Georgie thing, Wall Lord?”
Nanette wanted clarity, so Ilvriss re-activated his privacy rings and delivered the rest of the story. The Wandering Inn was, of course, the place that had put him onto this journey to begin with. Lyonette was a bit dubious, but she agreed he’d done everything right.
“It sounds like it could be a mess, Ilvriss.”
“When I go home. It was the right thing to do, I think. I just hope Miner Georgie sees it that way and gives us a chance.”
“Oh, er, Georgie, of course! One cannot just kill a man like—but giving away all the artifacts!”
Oh, that’s what she meant. Ilvriss gave Lyonette a mildly pitying gaze.
“Here’s someone else who never got out of their Hoarding years, eh, Mrsha?”
It’s a pathetic trait among royalty and Dragons, forsooth, Ilvriss. But we humor her.
The [Princess] reddened and spluttered.
“I just meant it makes no economic sense, let alone—!”
Ilvriss laughed, and Nanette held up a hand.
“I quite approve of all your actions, Wall Lord. I just would like to point out that while you did give away a lot of value to your employees, it was still a nobleman giving ‘down’ to the poor folk who have to work through his company. It seems to me that ideally, the employees and that [Foreman] would take the share they deserve, not need you to come swooping in like a [Knight].”
She gave him a challenging look full of teenage righteousness, and Ilvriss lifted a spoon to his mouth and blew on his soup. He supposed that was a very [Witchy] way to look at things. He took a bite of the prawn soup, which was excellent, then licked his spoon for politeness, and then replied.
“A very fair assessment, Nanette. Welsca will be delighted to know you’ve adopted her pajamas for daily wear, incidentally.”
“Don’t dodge my statements with cries for mercy, Wall Lord.”
“Hardly. I think you’re right, Nanette. There is an inequity built into anyone who wants to get a free and fair start with a level playing field in Salazsar. Most, if not all cities, are like that.”
She blinked as he lifted a foreclaw.
“Alrric and I commented on it, once. I’m aware this is still largesse from the noblesse, but I ask you this: what should I have done otherwise?”
“Well, like I said—”
“No, no, not what Foreman Rolx would do, or my employees. Could I do any better in the circumstances? I am the Wall Lord of the Gemscale Company, and I can only do what is possible within my role. You are free, of course, to talk to my people, but if you have any comments on what I could have done, I’ll certainly listen.”
Nanette hesitated. She opened her mouth, glanced at Mrsha, who shrugged, and then blushed slightly.
“Well…I don’t have that many notes for you. Um, that might have been a bit preachy. I’ll just go and hang out with the Sisters for a second. Mrsha, coming?”
The two got up to learn horrible lessons, and Ilvriss sat back in his chair.
“I got that unrepentant nuisance.”
Lyonette nearly snorted soup out her nose. She laughed as she high-fived Ilvriss, and Nanette spun around to her horror at their blatant celebration of his victory. And Ilvriss just smiled.
“It’s been a relatively good day. No Golems, only a few raids from the [Ranchers], and Nerul says he has a plan and he’ll be en-route shortly. Though, apparently, he has to charter a huge flight of Wyverns because his cargo’s so heavy. And since Fissival hates us, it’s Manus.”
“What could it be?”
“No clue. Maybe it’s enough drinks to drown Marvus Lischelle. But I’m feeling upbeat. Shall we dance, Princess?”
“Oh, you might twist my arm, Ilvriss.”
They were both in a good mood. The two were getting up, chuckling, as Ser Dalimont went to settle the bill when they heard shouting from outside. Boos, jeering—and they turned and saw the election in full swing.
Lism Swifttail and Krshia Silverfang had been spotted, and a crowd had formed in the street. There were members of the press taking [Magic Pictures], someone with a scrying mirror pushing forwards, and Krshia was trying to say something. Tugging on Lism’s arm.
The purple-scaled Drake was red-faced, and he ducked a potato being hucked at him. Ilvriss muttered.
“Ah, is it still bad?”
“Very bad for Krshia. Imani’s been trying to reverse opinions, but—Imani!”
The undercover [Chef] came over. Palt hesitated before scowling his way forwards. Ilvriss stopped him before he could bump Lyonette hard.
“Magus Palt. Lyonette is injured.”
“Er, sorry, Wall Lord. How’s the digging?”
Palt’s expression turned abashed as Ilvriss gave him a cool glance. He shuffled his hooves. Imani and Lyonette had barely noticed. Imani spoke to Ilvriss.
“I’ve tried, but Krshia’s community’s really upset. I can’t really blame them. And Lism—ah, shit.”
Lism was exploding with fury after a week of this. Ilvriss eyed him and groaned.
“Uh oh. I think he’s having a Noass moment.”
It was like young Dramm or any hothead. You could almost see the lid on Lism’s temple burst, and sure enough, he thrust Krshia’s paws away, grabbed a stone that projected his voice out over the crowd and rain, and began shouting.
“That’s it! I’ve had enough!”
Jeering, the crowd shouting insults at him like ‘traitor’ and ‘liar’, and then Lism’s voice drowned them all out. He swung around.
“Yes! I admit it! You’ve got proof! We’re a couple! We—”
He grabbed Krshia’s shoulder and there were more boos, more thrown objects. Lism caught a tomato and blocked three separate Yellats in one move. That was impressive enough to earn him another shout.
“And yes, we worked together! Don’t shout at me; I know I ran on an anti-Antinium, anti-immigration, anti-Krshia campaign! I was the one who came up with all that! But you know what?”
He looked around, breathing in and out.
“—When I got to the Councilmember’s chamber and I realized the idiots wanted us to just ‘keep on like normal’, and they didn’t see a thing wrong with the damn rent, you know what I realized? We had bigger enemies than Krshia! That she and I had worse to deal with than some damn Humans or the Black Tide! We had damn corrupt [Landlords], and we had to lower the rent!”
He threw up two claws on both hands in victory signs.
“So we did that! We worked with the Antinium to build the city out, and we passed all the laws to keep the Guilds from scooping more gold out of honest Liscorians’ pockets! You know why I was okay with that, and why Krshia Silverfang and I got along? Because we realized we could do more together than apart. If we hadn’t done that, 3rd District would never have been built! There wouldn’t be Humans or all these jobs—”
“You hated her! You’ve always hated her!”
One of Lism’s die-hard supporters stood up on something in the crowd to bellow back. Lism’s eyes popped.
“You think I don’t remember that, Swall? Yes, I hated her, but when we got to know each other, you know what? I took a look at this lovely Gnoll here and I fell in love. What kind of red-blooded Liscorian wouldn’t take his shot with a Gnoll like Krshia Silverfang? Come on up so I can show you what a [Liar] looks like!”
He pointed, and suddenly everyone turned to stare at Krshia Silverfang, who looked ready to murder Lism or turn invisible or both. Lism went on, shouting.
“Yes, I slept with my fellow councilmember who was my opponent! And you know what? I’ll do it again!”
Ilvriss coughed as he took a sip of water, and Lyonette put her face in her hands. Lism just kept going.
“All you naysayers who want to vote for that idiot—he’s the old Council. He just wants to remove the rent controls, put the Guilds in power, and stop working with the Humans, the Antinium, and lick the Walled Cities’ boots! You want that? Vote for him! But if you think this city is better than it was a year ago—vote for me. Not because of my policies or platforms—I’ll change them if I don’t think they’re working! Vote for me because I did this!”
He waved his claws around. Then he leapt up on something. Perhaps a literal soap box.
“Vote for my way! The Lism way! The only way this city gets even better! I’m—”
At that point, someone threw an entire fish at him. Lism went argh—fell down, and then it was a scrum. Ilvriss watched, sipping his drink, until he saw enough members of the Watch protecting Krshia and Lism as they were dragged away. Then he turned and shrugged.
“Well, I think that settles that. Best of luck to both of them.”
He got up and put down a tip as Lyonette walked off to dance.
 
——
 
Okay, at some point Lyonette realized that her activities were suspiciously like a date. She had told Rhisveri he was imagining things when he’d accused her of it.
He was sick or something; he’d come into the inn, all bundled up like his sock puppet alter ego, accused her of ‘romancing Ilvriss’, and then wanted to do the dance. She’d asked him why he was hunched over and couldn’t stand straight. He’d teleported himself out, and she’d put it down to poppycock and a fever.
But when you wrote down the things she and Ilvriss had done when he’d ridden back to Liscor, well…it made sense they had food out in the city. They wanted to give Calescent time off.
Naturally, after that, Lyonette had shown Ilvriss some more new shops and attractions in Liscor since he didn’t know them all. They’d then gone back to the inn to practice dancing—purely because they wanted to do the Highstepper—and after that, they’d have dinner, probably together since they would be hungry after dancing for a while.
She’d not thought that was amiss. Except when she’d vouchsafed to Xinthe that she’d be all sweaty, and couldn’t she bathe before dinner? To which, the trying-to-be-helpful Calanferian servant had asked if Lyonette wanted to try some new bathing facilities that Hexel had just finished. And did she want to share the large baths with Wall Lord Ilvriss?
The [Princess] had drawn breath to castigate Xinthe, then it had hit her. She turned, and Wall Lord Ilvriss mistook her look for an inquiry.
“I can do it! Once more time. Damn you, legs! We almost had it. One victory on top of the rest—”
He heaved himself up as Ser Dalimont offered him a stamina potion. Even Colfa, who liked dancing, couldn’t persuade her husband to dance this much—or wanted to train as obsessively.
But Ilvriss was a competitive Drake; he just didn’t have as much of a chance to show it. He was a good leader, and he could only be a person around Lyonette, sometimes.
Just like she was the boss of the inn and with him she could actually enjoy good food and…
Oh no. No, he lost Periss and—is it me?
Lyonette got up, guilty. Her magical boots let her cross the floor nimbly as she had before, and she hesitated.
“If you have somewhere to be, Ilvriss—you’ve had a long week. We could halt, and you could do something else.”
He was adjusting his collar so he could let his chest breathe. She noticed sweat sliding down his body suddenly and resolved to let Mrsha bully Xinthe as much as she wanted.
“Like what? Lyonette, frankly, I have no excuse to visit Liscor while everyone else is in the dig site. If you take this from me, I’ll have to be responsible nonstop.”
“Well, we can’t have that. One try?”
Lyonette bit her lip, and she began to move into the dance almost unconsciously. But she made two mistakes. The first was that she forgot which dance they were doing. She began to do Erin’s mysterious dance, and Ilvriss nearly slammed into her before he adjusted. And Lyonette was so preoccupied with her thoughts, she used a Skill.
[Flawless Attempt].
Just so she could think about the ethics and ramifications and—her body moved, not effortlessly flowing into each step, but flawlessly. Her body thrilled as she moved like a [Dancer], in a way that would have had even the Eternal Court of Calanfer on their feet if a certain Dame Ushar had taken a clandestine recording of Lyonette practicing. However, Ser Dalimont accidentally tripped the [Knight] as she was going for a better vantage point and coincidentally turned the scrying orb off as he helped her up. Lyonette barely noticed, and Ilvriss was all concentration.
Grace. She hadn’t used [Flawless Attempt] on a dance since they’d begun practicing. It didn’t teach you the dance. It was cheating, like the boots, only—more. So she was surprised, then, when she realized Ilvriss was keeping up with her.
He swung around with her, matching her move for move, and her eyes widened.
He has been practicing. The Wall Lord stepped back across the ground, and his eyes were so filled with concentration she felt it. Then she realized they were at the silly part of the dance.
Oh no. Erin’s stupid, ridiculous quack-quack dance. Lyonette did it, blank-faced, feeling her [Flawless Attempt] running out—it wasn’t perfect. She forgot the next part—did she Cossack dance then hop up? She leapt up too early and cursed.
Wait, now we swing each other around by the hands—she was out of place. So Lyonette was going to wait when she saw Ilvriss jump forwards. He abandoned his wavy-noodle arm move mid-wave and reached out.
They grabbed each other’s hands and swung around. Lyonette blinked. She stumbled back and missed a beat.
“Wrong—oops—wait—”
She forgot another move and began stepping left, arms spread. Ilvriss copied her, moving to the right. Arms identical to—
Wait.
He was keeping up with her. Copying her moves? The third time, Lyonette deliberately—
She stopped dancing. Then lifted her chin. Glided forwards in a walk, performing the Aubrel Solde, a classic Terandrian dance. And she saw Ilvriss walking at her. Eyes wide. Posture almost mimicking hers, but when her head and hand rose, he knelt in front of her hand.
She knew he didn’t know this dance. He took her hand, and she gazed down at him and felt it. Something flowed around her.
No—
Him.
Magic. She stepped back, and they were walking together until their hands clasped. They began to walk, reversing, turning, tracing the steps of a dance he did not know. She saw his eyes glowing.
“Ilvriss…”
That one breathed word broke the spell. He stumbled, feet growing uncertain, and caught her. But she was laughing.
“Ilvriss! What was—you did it!”
“I did? Didn’t you…? I thought when you were deviating—I did! It was—that’s why Erin put in those stupid dance moves! She knew it wasn’t meant to be part of the dance! She wanted us to deviate or make a mistake and—we did it, Lyonette!”
“No, you did!”
She was wondering and jealous and embarrassed. Ilvriss didn’t understand until she told him she’d been using [Flawless Attempt]. And flawless…wasn’t how you danced like magic.
“But—what did I do? I…my legs are killing me. I was in the flow, and I knew you’d made a mistake.”
“Not on purpose!”
“No! No, I just saw it because we’ve done it so many times, and…I think I can do it again. I just need some rest. Do—do you think I know a magical dance? Me?”
He was completely in denial, but Lyonette had seen it. Felt it.
“You don’t know the Aubrel Solde, do you?”
“The what? I wouldn’t know it if you served it at that restaurant.”
“Well, until I spoke, you did it, Ilvriss. You learned a magical dance! Get up! Get up so I can do it!”
He was stunned until Lyonette tried to drag him upright, begging to try it again. She just had to…
Unfortunately, her boots had run out of magic for half a day, and she collapsed. Ilvriss caught her in his arms, and she froze.
Oh no—
He lowered her onto the ground and dropped her.
“You’re too heavy to keep doing that.”
“Excuse you!”
Ilvriss rolled away as she kicked weakly at him. Laughing. In truth, Lyonette didn’t know quite what the dance did, only that Ilvriss had achieved it. She was envious, smiling, heart lifting, and he was laughing.
“Me. A magical dance. What, am I going to sleep and get the [Wacky Arms Dance]?”
“Shut—shut up, you knew it was amazing!”
“The [Erin Noodle Dance].”
He wheezed as he chuckled. He found Lyonette’s indignation hilarious. She was trying to sit up.
“I’m—damn boots! Don’t you dare name it that, Ilvriss, it was incredible! Do it again! You learned the dance, and I got nothing! If I hear that name when I get it—and I will get it—I’ll have Ser Dalimont stab you. Ser Dalimont, did Ushar record that?”
“Ah, she sadly tripped, Princess—”
“She what? You tripped her? Dalimont! I know she has to report to my mother. Let that Bagrhaven do what she wants. The recording!”
“I got most of it until this fool interrupted us, Princess. I missed the magical part. Ser Dalimont, once again sabotaging the Eternal Throne—”
“I was not informed recording Princess Lyonette was part of my duties!”
“No, because you’d be a pervert. I’m simply a faithful retainer. It’s Xinthe’s fault anyways.”
“Ah, indeed.”
“M-me? But what did I—?”
“It’s always your fault.”
“True, but don’t quibble on faults, Ushar! Someone get Mrsha! And Nanette! No, wait, not a word to them until I can do it or they’ll tease me! Don’t you dare tell them, Ilvriss. Ilvriss?”
The Drake was still laughing. He was holding his side, pointing at the [Princess] arguing with her servants, tears in his eyes. Actually, his laughter was so filled with hilarity it was getting insulting.
Lyonette was smiling, and she was about to start scolding louder since he deserved his victory, when the laughter’s tenor changed. She realized the tears in the corners of Ilvriss’ eyes were moving down his cheeks. And that the laughing…
Had turned into sobbing.
The three members of staff stopped arguing. Xinthe, Dalimont, Ushar, turned, and suddenly they stopped making sounds. Lyonette glanced around, but they had become part of the furniture. She saw the Wall Lord sitting there. Pressing the heels of his palms to his eyes.
“Ilvriss? What’s…wrong?”
He shook his head. Tried to speak. But he was hiccupping now. Tears were running from his eyes, and he sat there, covered in sweat, as she stood unsteadily.
“I—it’s nothing, Lyonette. What a fool…I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I just—it hit me.”
“What did?”
She sat down, a dress like a Faerie Flower puddling around her, and he had a simple maroon vest on. Dressed up for their silly hobby. He’d even put on a clashing pair of polka dot pants just to delight Nanette, light blue dots on dark orange he’d personally commissioned. The Wall Lord spoke.
“I just realized…I don’t want to die.”
The [Princess] froze, and the Wall Lord sat there. Wiping at his face.
“I’ve been having fun. Despite it all. Getting angry and happy and upset, and I thought—it just hit me. I was having fun today. Despite Georgie. I felt like I was actually changing my company. My father and I weren’t arguing much. I did the most un-Drake thing I had to. And I wanted to…”
“What—what makes you think you have to die?”
“My mission.”
That was all Ilvriss said, and Lyonette—froze. She knew what that was. He’d told her, in Oteslia.
The Necromancer.
But it was such a big, overwhelming secret he’d been working against that she hadn’t done more than think of it in her nightmares. Ilvriss, though, had been working nonstop the moment he’d found out. Even this dig was all for…
She glanced at Dalimont and Ushar, and they dragged Xinthe away. They stood at the doors as Lyonette whispered.
“I know what you mean, Ilvriss. But that doesn’t mean…”
“Yes. Yes, it does, Lyonette. I’m no idiot. I knew what I was signing up for. I was resolved to do it. Periss…but even with the Faerie Flower drink, some days I struggle to remember every detail about her. And I’m not angry anymore, Lyonette.”
“It’s hard to hold onto your anger, Ilvriss. Even with Nokha, I’d kill her, but I don’t lie awake at night wishing…”
Lyonette began, but Ilvriss just peered up wordlessly. Tears ran down his cheeks, stained slightly with glistening wetness. Shining in the faint light of the ballroom. She sat with him as he whispered.
“I know. But I don’t feel that hatred. And I looked at you, and it was so funny…I realized I was afraid. I’m just a coward. I’m afraid I won’t be able to fight him, Lyonette.”
“Don’t say that. You’ve done so much. Even when the Terlands sent Golems…”
She hugged him, chest constricting. Ilvriss just sniffed.
“I’m not a hero. Xesci seems to think I am, or could be. But I’m…just a Drake. Erin gave me a sword from her [Garden of Sanctuary]. And it’s just a sword. I can’t get it to flare with lightning.”
“It could be a bad sword. She’s not a good judge of…”
He plucked the sword from his belt and tossed it down.
“Not just that. I’m a Wall Lord of Salazsar, and I only got this far with General Sserys literally telling me where to dig. I’m no Zel Shivertail. I wasn’t worthy of standing with him. I’m going to fail. Fail Periss. Fail everyone. I’m more treacherous than Dramm is. I just…I’m scared, Lyonette.”
She said nothing. Just hugged him tightly.
“You’ve never, ever run away, Ilvriss. That’s what Mrsha says about Elia, you know. That’s why she likes her. And what brought me around. Elia doesn’t run. You haven’t, either. Even when I was in danger or…not when it matters.”
“I ran from the Hunter-Killer.”
He was trying to be contrary. She laughed at him.
“You silly prevaricator, you know what I mean. You don’t have to die, Ilvriss. This is…this is The Wandering Inn. Miracles happen.”
“Sometimes, they don’t. Then, Erin pays the price. I don’t know if I can do it, Lyonette. I don’t know if I’m worth what she is.”
Lyonette took one of Ilvriss’ neck spines and pushed down until he was blinking up at her.
“Don’t say that. Don’t put her on a pedestal! Or we’ll never reach her. Erin can’t be alone, Ilvriss. Too many people just buy into her legend. You never have. And neither have I. We have to catch her or she’ll be all by herself and think she has to save the world alone. And sacrifice herself to do it. We’ll catch her.”
“With magical dances? Digging holes in cowpats?”
“We’ll do it because we rise to every challenge. You remember what she was like. For every flag she waved, there were a hundred times we had to poke her into making cakes, or she was just playing chess and hanging out. Erin is the perfect, the ultimate example. If she can hit Level 50, so can anyone. You won’t die. I refuse to let you. Stop…stop crying.”
Lyonette felt tears sting her own eyes. She hugged Ilvriss, and his tears did stop. She felt his breathing stop jerking around in his chest. Then she realized she was holding him as they nearly fell back on the ballroom floor. Only his tail was keeping them upright.
“I’m sorry, Lyonette. I…I don’t know what came over me.”
“Mortality?”
He laughed, and she blinked down at him. Lyonette hesitated, and saw Ilvriss gazing up at her. She pressed her lips together, craned her head downwards—
He dumped her out of his lap. She leapt up—well, struggled up.
“I—”
“No, that was entirely inappropriate—”
“No, it was just—I can’t—”
“Let’s say no more of it, Ilvriss! We should go and—”
They stumbled towards the doors, red-faced. Neither one said a word as they blew past Ushar and Dalimont, who stood to attention like statues.
“Bath! Xinthe, we need to clean up!”
“Agreed. And I’m very embarrassed, but thank you.”
Ilvriss smiled at Lyonette, and she cleared her throat. Then Xinthe was leading and helping Lyonette towards the new bathing rooms that Hexel had made. It even, apparently, had showers designed specifically for Antinium.
Breathe in, out, mention the magical dance to the girls. Figure out how he did that and what it does—unpack the rest of that later. She could almost sense Ilvriss doing the same thing. Lyonette flung herself into the bathing room and let Xinthe help her strip her sweaty garments off. She hopped in the huge bathing pool area, which would be like the public baths in Liscor—and sighed as the hot water cleansed her skin.
“Wait, do I need to shower first, Xinthe?”
Lyonette only realized after a moment that she’d utterly broken protocol by entering dirty, but the servant called out.
“There’s no need to clean yourself first! The baths have a self-cleaning spell installed! Architect Hexel doesn’t trust children or your average bather.”
“Phew, what a relief. That’s Salazsar-standard, but you never know. The amount of mess Brilm makes—he gets in the tub with food. The monster. He does have his good qualities. Thank you, Miss Xinthe. I—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss strode over to the tub, utterly naked, and was levering himself down, groaning. Only then did he spot Lyonette, who was submerged up to her cheekbones in the water. He froze. Lyonette’s head emerged like a swamp-thing as Dame Ushar cracked the door open, and Xinthe hesitated.
“Er, I thought you said—”
Ilvriss exploded out of the water as Lyonette ducked underwater, then came up to scream.
“Ushar! Get Mrsha!”
But she was glad when she heard Ilvriss laughing, even ruefully.
 
——
 
Some days, you had no context for what was going on in The Wandering Inn. Not ‘most days’; the inn was actually fairly predictable 73% of the time.
And yes, Yelroan had calculated it. He’d been out all day, checking on the election results and trying to predict how it would go.
He was conducting polls, another Earther invention—but they invented everything. He wanted to make sure his model worked using Liscor’s election as a trial run, and if he was right…the results might shock you.
However, he felt bad when he came back and saw Xinthe wearing a Shield Spider hat of shame and serving guests with it on her head.
“What’s going on with Xinthe?”
“Oh, hey, Yelroan. She’s being punished.”
“Ah, like normal, then? Anything else I missed, Peggy?”
It was astonishing to Yelroan how much he could hang out with the staff. Plain’s Eye had never really liked him like that, even though he was their tribe. That only hurt a lot in hindsight. Anyways, Peggy gave him a rundown. Yelroan’s eyebrows bobbed up.
“Ilvriss learned the magical dance? That’s ahead of my predictions.”
She swatted his arm playfully.
“Oh, you! You know everything, you smort guy, eh? No tricking you!”
Yelroan chuckled, embarrassed. To Peggy, the former Redfang, and everyone else, Yelroan was the ‘smart’ [Mathematician]. Even though he’d been to less school as a cub than even Ser Dalimont…he’d just gone to school later as an adult. You never stopped learning.
However, he was guilty because, well, he’d been out. He wasn’t needed at the inn. Oh, sure, he kept moving the money around, making it grow for the inn, but Yelroan had a secret.
He’d been giving money to the Plain’s Eye tribe and continuing to help Merish. His friend needed to establish something in the New Lands. His tribe was in danger.
Of course, Lyonette had approved giving money to Gnollish tribes—that wasn’t the secret. The secret was that Yelroan was, well, moonlighting. Selling his services to interested parties and using the proceeds on other projects and trying to help his former tribe.
He felt bad because he was an employee of The Wandering Inn. But something had occurred to him.
This place…doesn’t really need me. Yelroan sipped from a drink of goat’s milk as he leaned on the counter and watched Mrsha harassing Xinthe. It was the only time the girl looked like a girl, and he thought Xinthe put up with it because she knew what Mrsha had been through.
It had been Mrsha who’d called for Yelroan when Erin had needed help, and it was a good idea, but…a kid’s idea, if that made sense. Send for a [Mathematician] to run an inn’s finances.
It was like calling for a Terland Golem to farm a single field. Yelroan ran out of work. Make no mistake, he’d been needed—he’d fought some unforgettable battles when the [Box of Incontinuity] had first activated.
Glad I was here for that. I actually levelled. And Yelroan had his great work, his project to quantify magic. But most days, he was just…unneeded.
He’d been thinking about that a lot, really. He had a conclusion in mind he didn’t like, but his counterargument was: why leave?
The inn gave him free room and board. He loved it here. He could help with Mrsha, and when he was needed, his impact would be far greater than anywhere else. He said that to himself, but when the call came for him, he was still glad.
“Hey, uh, Peggy?”
“What? Inkpaper, if you’re slacking off, I hit you with my ass!”
Peggy turned, two pizza platters in each hand, and the lazier [Librarian] waved his claws.
“No, I was working! Someone calling the inn for [World’s Eye Theatre] call. Private. Very worried. She on the list. Qwera!”
Yelroan’s ears perked up. Peggy hesitated.
“Lyonette is napping. She very tired after dancing. Maybe it wait? Or it goes to Mrsha?”
They turned to the giggling Gnoll girl who’d created the Path of Penance with Nannette; an oil-slicked floor filled with obstacles that Xinthe had to navigate to serve food to a very worried series of guests.
“If she crashes, the next order’s free!”
“Maybe it waits?”
Peggy suggested, glancing around for Dalimont or Ushar or—Yelroan raised a paw.
“What about me?”
He was a ‘senior’ member of staff, and Peggy gratefully nodded. So the [Mathematician] took a slice of pizza and drink to the [World’s Eye Theatre]. He heard a crash and winced.
“What did Xinthe actually do?”
Asgra was sweeping the huge theatre with a broom. She shrugged.
“She put naked Ilvriss and Lyonette together. On purpose, I bet. She on team Ilvriss. Grr. I her rival.”
“Got it. Thanks, Asgra. Er…what team are you on?”
“Team Dalimont! He not want me on his team, but I know better.”
Yelroan decided that was largely harmless and not his business. He walked down, activated the Skill, and spoke.
“Can I get a very secure call to Merchant Qwera, please? Thank you. Qwera? Hello? Can you hear me? Can you establish privacy spells but let me through?”
“Who’s there? Yelroan? Tribes, thank goodness—”
It took a second for Qwera to appear as he squinted into a world of static. He entered a vision of Qwera’s surroundings, but then he found himself in one of her wagons. The image was a bit static-y, which he took to represent anti-scrying spells. Qwera appeared rattled. Some of her golden fur was brown, and she was panting for air.
She’s rattled.
“What is it, Qwera? An attack? Can I send word to anyone?”
The Golden Gnoll of Pallass was a generously filled woman with her iconic scintillating fur, a maven of business. He quite respected her acumen, and he’d never seen her this rattled, even at the Meeting of Tribes. Qwera looked around again.
“No. No. I just…I’ve been thinking on who to contact. I had to tell someone, even if it’s dangerous. I’ve deliberately not reached out for a while because I think she might have been monitoring who I’m calling for—Yelroan. I was trying to get the Silver Swords out of trouble. You know that?”
“Of course. I’ve been leaning on the Merchant’s Guild myself, but they’ve been unusually stubborn.”
He frowned. Lyonette had asked him to help, but something—internal politics—had overridden the usual levers of gold he could pull. Qwera nodded as her fur began to settle back. She started dyeing her fur distractedly.
“It’s someone new in the Guild. A Chandrarian—a member of Roshal. A [Slave Lady] just swept the Merchant’s Guild—she’s been altering their internal decisions worldwide! Do you know…a Slave Lady Andra?”
Yelroan did, if vaguely. He tracked new players in the game of commerce, and his fur rose as she related her encounter.
“Wait, she had a nine-way conference? Then a glowing Antinium exploded her?”
“She’s not dead. I hoped she was, but when I found out—she’s a ghost, Yelroan.”
“One of Roshal’s. I know. The Prophet Pawn attacked her. Damn, he didn’t get any of them, then?”
“The—the what?”
Qwera was completely taken aback, but Yelroan remembered the [Palace of Fates]. He drummed his paws on the counter.
“That’s not good at all. She’s probably Level 50, even with her level reduction, and she’s a ghost. With Roshal’s economic might? A [Lady of Coin] at her level could alter the world economy.”
“You don’t need to tell me that! I felt like she was squashing me, Yelroan. I want to work with her—and I swear I can’t tell if that’s because I want to gain her trust or if I’m being blown away by her class. I—someone needs to stop her.”
“I’ll tell Lyonette.”
Yelroan promised, but what could the [Princess] do? Roshal was not an enemy the inn wanted. Yet. Lyonette had hidden the inn because she was worried about them. The inn had a lot of power. The ability to take on the Slave State of Chandrar…no. And this was an enemy who fought with numbers and coin, which Lyonette, good as she was, was only middling in.
“Who could stop her?”
“The…Quarass? Wall Lord Ilvriss is no slouch, but he’s busy and outclassed. This sounds like a real nightmare.”
“One who has time to work and who no one is checking! Yelroan, only a top-tier [Merchant] would know she’s in the Guild Headquarters. She’s put policies into place that are going to—she’s going to have debtors enslaved. I can’t stop it! I’ve argued myself hoarse, and there are good [Merchants] who see what she’s doing, but you know what an oxymoron that is around here.”
Qwera was right to be worried. Yelroan devoured his pizza as he thought.
“I…I’ll help. I think I’ve already locked horns with one of that lot, and they’re dangerous. Listen, Qwera, can you stick around?”
“I’m not going to sleep tonight until I get something done, so yes! Ysara is also willing to help, but she’s trying to advocate for Ylawes. She can run our business, and I can do Andra’s errands if that helps—”
“You need to use that information or you’re just working for her, Qwera. And her class probably corrupts. In two months? You’ll start seeing it her way. Two years and your morality might shift until you’re on her side.”
The Golden Gnoll blanched.
“I’d rather eat a wand. That’s why…who do you have in mind?”
Honestly? Yelroan was so worried he paced around in a circle.
“Most of the Gnolls I’d have told—I’d have told Xherw and hoped he had someone. A lot of my allies are dead. And Fetohep of Khelt wouldn’t have the time and gold…”
They had lost a lot of allies. Qwera bit her lip, and Yelroan snapped his fingers. He gave Qwera his best grin to reassure her.
“There’s only one person in this world who can take Andra on. I know exactly who—let me adjust the receiver…I might have to petition for an audience, but…”
There was only one champion of this realm who could fight even Andra on equal terms, even if they might be outlevelled. One hero to champion Izril—no, the world.
 
——
 
Secretary Salii was slurping noodles out of a bowl in a war camp.
“…What?”
Two Gnolls were waving at her, one from a scrying orb, another just standing there. Salii knew The Wandering Inn of course. She just hadn’t realized Yelroan and Qwera were so deeply tied to it.
“That’s the situation, Secretary Salii. Izril needs the greatest [Secretary]. You’re up against someone who might outlevel you. At least, she was probably Level 60+ in life. And she’s got way more leverage. We can give you some, but you’re needed.”
The Gnoll’s sunglasses flashed, and Salii shaded her eyes with a claw.
“Um…listen. I appreciate the vote of confidence, and that actually sounds like fun. But I’m sort of employed, working for Pomle? We are at war, you know, and my father didn’t raise a quitter.”
She jerked her thumb at Orjin and the [Martial Artists] continuing their war for Pomle’s freedom. Yelroan hesitated.
“But Salii—”
“This Slave Lady is way more dangerous than Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
Qwera broke in. Salii leaned back and adjusted the volume on the scrying orb.
“Yeah, I know. I’m not stupid. She sounds like a true menace. Damn Roshal. Working for the Demons was like the fifth option on my list of jobs. But without the Deathless, I thought it wasn’t worth it…I’d have considered going there if I’d known they’d come back.”
That sentence made Vandum walk straight into a tent pole and drew even the two Gnolls up. Salii rolled her eyes.
“I’m a mercenary of contracts, you two. I’m not the good guy you think I am. Mind you, I don’t care for [Slavers]—but I’m not going to pull up and start a counteroffensive in Izril. I don’t have any contacts, and frankly, I’m sick of Drake politics, and I’d have to be right back in there. Orjin’s refreshing. He’ll just punch someone in the face and skip two months of arguing.”
She smiled, and Yelroan spoke urgently.
“Secretary, I know you’re loyal, but you’re not blind. Without help, this will become a crisis, and Pomle is on Roshal’s chopping block for what it did.”
She smiled grimly.
“I know. And I’m not intending to do nothing. I just can’t devote my own time to it. I’ll make trouble here. Don’t you worry, I appreciate the heads up. But I have to leave this fight in more capable hands.”
“Whose? You have a name?”
She slurped more noodles and pointed a fork.
“Yep. You.”
She pointed at Yelroan, and Qwera blinked. Yelroan just held up his paws.
“Secretary, I’m flattered, but—”
“You’re the [Mathematician] who kept the largest tribe in Izril running by yourself, Yelroan. I know you can fight dirty. You just don’t want to. I saw those moves when that money problem occurred—you just need support and a team.”
“I—I appreciate that, but I am not equipped for—”
“Yes, you are. And I saw you hiring yourself out like a common [Streetwalker] from Liscor. You? Disgraceful. That [Princess] doesn’t know what she’s got in you. I was the one who booked you doing all our numbers last week.”
He jumped.
“I wondered who—but Salii, Slave Lady Andra has an entire enterprise. I just have an abacus and a filing cabinet! I cannot take her on.”
This time, the [Secretary] acknowledged the pushback.
“True. You’d need a full staff of people with levels. Heavyweights who can fight on Andra’s terms. And enterprise. Even if Qwera lends you her credentials and plays the spy…”
“Exactly. I don’t have—”
She wrote on a piece of glowing paper, signed and dated it, signed, dated, signed…
After six more signatures, Salii flicked her claws, and Yelroan jumped as something flashed into being in front of him.
“There. Anyone who knows me knows that’s authentic. Take that and go find the Graiz Room in Tower 12, floor…eh, it’s in there. There’s a lovely [Receptionist] working there, a male Drake. Hand it to him and tell him that Salii’s calling for the team. Everyone. It’ll take a bit for them to quit their jobs, but everyone who’s not dead or like Wol and gone to the New Lands will join up. That’s the company I ran.”
Salii’s cutthroat crew of hired guns. As fearsome a crew as that of the Illuminary—just in the business world. She smiled as Yelroan stared at her.
“You’ll have to set up a company in Salazsar. But it’s a good city to use as a base.”
“What—me? I have the inn!”
He protested. But Salii was already busy sending more [Memos].
“You want to stop Andra? That’s where you go. Check in on old Eschowar too. I don’t like him being back. Good luck! Oh, and hire some bodyguards. The [Slavers] love their damn [Assassins]. Actually, I think I have a coupon for the Assassin’s Guild. It’s headquartered in Salazsar.”
She hunted around in her purse, and Yelroan stood there. Suddenly…a Gnoll with a mandate from the Queen of Secretaries. No one else could stop the Slave Lady. Yelroan could try to find someone or—or—
But no one knew. And he was the [Mathematician]. The Gnoll sat there, about to protest that he owed the inn too much. Mrsha too much.
Then he remembered where Arrema, the future version of Mrsha had gone. And he rose…to have a word with Lyonette.
 
——
 
Great changes afoot. The city was changing.
Lism felt it in his bones as he rose. His bed was empty. Normally, there was a great, snoring Gnoll there. And he meant it without any pejoratives, these days.
He’d fallen, annoyingly, head over heels in love. With no less than Krshia Silverfang. If she said jump, he’d have gotten a ladder since his knees weren’t good, but…
And now it was all falling apart. All because they’d risen to the bait, and the Council was lost. Perhaps it’d be a majority of old Councilmembers.
Krshia was upset. He didn’t blame her. Her people felt betrayed—heck, his people felt betrayed, and he’d talked himself hoarse. His outburst yesterday…
He stumbled to the windows and noticed the lack of rain. The rains were stopping. Spring ended. Lism knew it as a Liscorian; the waters would be receding already.
Yet there was still a roaring. A surge like the thrashing of winds, and he wondered if a windstorm was coming in to herald the end of spring. Lism threw open the shutters, bare-chested, squinting out his new glass window to see how bad the weather was.
Maybe it’d make fewer people vote? Dead gods, did he have to count on that? Only when he saw the cloudy skies, with hints of sunlight poking through, did he pause.
There’s no storm. The wind blew no shutters. Yet the roaring continued. He stood there, blinking in the morning, when he realized it was no storm of wind.
It was…voices. Hundreds, nay, thousands of voices. People shouting, stamping in the street. Lism Swifttail stared out the window and realized it was a crowd outside his windows.
His first thought was that the mob had finally come for him, and he was only grateful Krshia wasn’t here. Lism was looking around for the Scroll of Lesser Teleportation they kept for emergencies when they had kept this all secret. He had just found it when he realized they were chanting his name. And not in that angry way.
“Li-sm. Li-sm!”
He poked his head up. Then went to the windows. They were below. Shouting it.
“Li-sm! Li-sm!”
Drakes. Gnolls. Even Humans. Mostly—and this was his demographic, apparently—men. Of varying ages, but ones who liked Lism’s big talk. Young men who wanted to shake up the ways things worked. Old men who’d seen how impossible it was to move beyond the old hierarchies.
People who liked his Carer initiatives—he did have some broadness of his base.
Chanting.
“Li-sm! Li-sm!”
His people. Then Lism saw it. He saw his neighbors standing at their windows, staring at him. People who wanted to protest him, standing in clumps, outnumbered.
Then Lism’s racing heart calmed, and he saw it. He was no Krshia. He wasn’t a Silverfang Gnoll trying to hold together two kinds of Gnoll—and he wasn’t, well, a woman. His impassioned shouting from yesterday?
What kind of red-blooded Liscorian…
The former [Shopkeeper] smiled. He began to reach for a shirt—then he decided against. He strode out in his bathrobe and pants, and the shouting grew louder. He raised his claws in the air and yelled.
“The Lism way! The only way! Lism!”
He leapt down the stairs so hard, he slipped on the last three and went crashing down. The crowd went silent—then Lism popped up. Mud and rainwater on his scales, bruised, but unashamed. He ran through the crowd, slapping hands. Shouting. That was how he burst onto the streets of Liscor.
No apologies, no shame. Only bravado, yelling, and bigger promises.
He felt like he was onto something.
 
[Class Change: Assertive Councilmember → Reformist Politician!]
[Reformist Politician Level 25!]
[Skill – Rally the Crowds Obtained!]
[Skill – Don’t You Dare Lie, I Mean It Obtained!]
[Skill – Sense Corruption Obtained!]
[Skill – Tiebreaking Vote (Monthly) Obtained!]
[Skill – If I Keep Talking You’ll See It My Way Obtained!]
 
——
 
Dancing. It wasn’t like Lyonette or Erin had a monopoly on the stuff. Plenty of people had moves. The kind of moves that a stuffy [Princess] and lame [Innkeeper] couldn’t dream of. They just didn’t choose to show it off—
Or danced with any regularity or practice. That was fine because they had lives.
It was just…when someone achieved something like learning a magical dance, and it spread around, it made everyone else think, ‘I could do that’. And wonder what they’d been doing with their time.
Sometimes it was a silly thought, especially if you were someone like the Archmage of Izril. But then you could see Valeterisa and Relc dancing in the common room of the inn for practice. Most of Valeterisa’s thoughts agreed she’d never actually have the time to devote to learning a magical dance, at least not hard ones. But they still thought it was worth doing.
The same for a certain young man with sandy hair who was doing the robot dance moves to an appreciative audience.
“Told you I’ve got moves. See? So, uh, how cool is the magic dance?”
Not-Kevin turned, and few people had actually seen it—the Thronebearers and Xinthe were keeping mum about it, and not even Mrsha the All-Knowing knew. But she was just whirling around with Visma and Ekirra until they fell over.
The little Gnoll cub and lead [Striker] of the Little Crabs had been sad most of the spring. He played in his game, and he was still one of the top players being headhunted by other cities for the little league division of football, but he didn’t run around and put his nose in everything like before.
His parents had been worried because he’d been eating less. But then he’d cheered up recently and put on weight again. No one knew why, and the [Healer] had put it down to childhood, some incident at the playgrounds. Ekirra didn’t talk about it, even to Mrsha or Visma.
He just glanced at the young man dancing and doing Golem-like moves now and then and sniffed the air. And Not-Kevin peeked guiltily at Ekirra as he danced next to Coach Joseph.
Kevin had to be dead, of course. Ekirra had gone to the funeral. The Gnoll didn’t run over and say something because he had a big thought that maybe if [Assassins] killed someone once, they’d do it again. And that, whether anyone noticed it or not, was a Gnoll boy growing a bit older.
There was indeed nothing happy in the inn without sadness waiting in the corner to kick you in the groin and run away.
Even Ishkr was dancing. Trying to do the Highstepper, actually, in the ballroom—he’d bothered and begged someone to help him, and the only person who had anything close to good footwork besides Lyonette, Ilvriss, and the [Knights] was Elia Arcsinger.
She’d given it a go, and so had he—but after two tries and banged shins, they retired to the inn. Ishkr looked disconsolate. Liska was laughing at him, having taken a break to mock her brother. He retorted by asking if she could dance with her new girlfriend at all. Which prompted an existential crisis in Liska—but that was just an amusing affair which occurred in Mirn’s new bar later. Small potatoes.
Ishkr didn’t talk about his thoughts either, most of the time. But he was a bit upset. The dancing didn’t really grab him, but…it was just a reminder. He could see Lyonette and Ilvriss advancing in levels, and he had, for once, slowed. He needed to find his own spark.
“Well, well, look at all the copycats. One simply performs one magical dance and there goes all the mockery.”
Lyonette was gloating in the common room. She pointedly stared at Nanette and Hethon, and the witch flushed, missed her steps, and headbutted Hethon in the chest. There was laughter, merriment, and Wall Lord Ilvriss was sitting at a table, drinking a goat’s milk with his collar parted, no longer weeping. Just…smiling.
An Erin Solstice party, if quieter without Erin. It was not a major victory, but the inn celebrated minor ones because they knew they were important. And, in fact, Ilvriss finally caught one of the guests of the inn who’d been avoiding him.
He was glancing up at the ceiling when he turned.
“Tessa, is that you?”
The Named-rank adventurer wasn’t hiding in the rafters. She was just…sitting in a corner of the inn. She blinked at him.
“Ilvriss, hi.”
“How are you?”
He immediately got up and walked over, and she shrugged.
“Bad. But I’m not dead.”
“You’re still, ah, what’s the word? Detoxing? In withdrawal?”
“Eating shit.”
The Named-ranker moodily stabbed at her plate. Lyonette had bought takeout, another part of Calescent’s time-off strategy. The [Chef] didn’t seem to mind; he was joining the dancers, and he and Bird were dancing.
“Heard you were digging. Got anyone you need dead? I’m not allowed to adventure because I’m ‘suicidal’. Doctor’s orders. I told her that’s normal for adventurers, but she didn’t listen.”
That was all Tessa said. Ilvriss chewed on a response.
“Well, we have a Terland problem. Ulva Terland, and we’ve had [Ranchers] fighting us…”
“Want me to try to take her out?”
“Er…I don’t know if you could.”
“Probably not. I’m bored.”
That was the signal for Lyonette to stride over, plop herself down, and turn to Tessa.
“You didn’t want to dance with me, Tessa, even for practice while Ilvriss was gone! If you’re still bored, we could play a board game or try more activities on our list.”
“Eh.”
The road to recovery was long and, at times, boring, which seemed to be one of the harder battles for the Drake. But Ilvriss was encouraged by the fact that Tessa was actually just sitting there and talking. Even to the other members of staff who came by. In fact, Inkpaper kept coming over to deliver the food.
“I’ve never seen Inkpaper willingly serving food.”
Ilvriss commented, and Lyonette pulled a face.
“He likes Tessa because she asks for something once every six hours at most. She likes him because he leaves her alone. She’s been making book-forts in his library.”
“…You have a library?”
“Of course! Haven’t you seen…? This way!”
The two left to visit the library, and the common room kept being merry without them. Aside from Captain Todi instantly pulling something out. He spread a sheaf of papers down.
“Alright, bets on who thinks those two are gettin’ together?”
He was running a gambling operation, and a lot of the staff and guests crowded around. Menolit had used to do it, but he’d been casual. Todi had made it an illicit operation.
He was also trying to con the odds, so he’d sidled over to bug Menolit, the [Wingman], for his opinion. He also went to pester another expert in love, at least where her mother was concerned.
Mrsha just threw a fry at Todi. She was sitting at a table, sighing over a letter. Eventually, she stopped turning the weather-worn piece of mail over. It had come a long way to reach her, via numerous City Runners, and was beaten up. But then, she’d had [Messages] blocked…she eventually tore open the letter from the Demas Metal tribe and read.
Chieftain Mrell did not know how to write letters to his daughter. Fair enough, she’d almost never responded. So he wrote the letter like a man writing a report.
Blah blah, hoping you’re well, mother is…Mrsha scowled at the writing, then paused when she read something.
 
…We have a wind-powered autohammer finally up and running. It’s loud as can be, has less force than a Level 30 [Blacksmith] with the [Power Hammer] Skill—and it turns off every time the wind isn’t blowing decently hard.
But it’s a start. From what we’ve seen in the place, the real thing will move metal better than what the Dwarves can do, and I’ve seen the ones they have in Dwarfhalls Rest. We’re behind them.
Improving it all is slow. Painfully. We need to get all the materials we don’t have, and we’re bottled by that and technique and magic—everything. But we have time, so far. Chieftain Feshi’s just digging, but Adetr and I are the ones pushing the industry to the next level.
I could maybe send more Demas Metal for this Wall Lord if you were still in need of it. Please let me know…
 
She supposed she had to write him a response. Clever. The Gnoll girl was penning a response when she heard an argument. She glanced up briefly, snorted.
In typical fashion, Ilvriss had gone up to the library and snooted all over it. He and Lyonette were arguing because she’d stocked mostly books from Terandria and northern Izril—no Drake authors. Or Gnollish, which had made the [Princess] embarrassed.
“Mrsha! Can you believe this Drake? He’s doing it again! It’s not ‘politely pointing things out’, it’s classic Salazsarian arrogance, Ilvriss!”
“I didn’t say you had to have more books, and I know you can afford them, Lyonette. You lack for almost any Gnollish authors, so you can’t claim it’s me being a Drake supremacist. Mrsha, back me up—”
The Gnoll girl patently ignored the adults. She eventually waved a quill at her mother.
Why don’t you go and play with Wall Lord Ilvriss somewhere else, Mom? Don’t you have, like, [Cattle Raiders] in shitsville to deal with?
“Mrsha! How dare—are they still attacking you, Ilvriss?”
He hesitated.
“Actually? Less. We have, uh, some decent brawlers, and the Silverfangs are, well, Gnolls. Good at fighting and used to cattle raids. Even besides that, I feel like they’ve lost interest or something. It’s barely two a week right now. But it’s still a huge problem.”
“Darn. Colfa? Can’t you get them to stop?”
“Get [Ranchers] to stop stealing cows. Lyonette, I don’t try to stop you from…beating up innocent chairs? Or Ilvriss from using bidets. You might as well tell a [Thief] to keep his hands out of the till. They don’t stop, and Marvus’ Skill will keep them popping back up. You’re not hurting them.”
The adults were talking around Mrsha’s table as she furiously wrote to her father about the annoyances surrounding her. However, Mrsha was listening, and her ears perked up as Lyonette hmmed.
“It reminds me of Kaliv, honestly. Or Gaiil-Drome.”
“Your allies? Don’t you all get along in the Dawn Concordat?”
“Please, Ilvriss. You know allies.”
“Ah. Quite. I suppose recent events have kept you all friendlier. How bad is it in peace?”
“Griffins, wild or tamed, sniping Calanfer’s own herds—Kaliv always wants more food. And Gaiil-Drome are half-Elves.”
Colfa propped her hands on her hips, amused.
“Not a lot of meat-eaters around there, I’d wager. Even if I know Ceria’s different, don’t half-Elves eschew meat culturally?”
“They do, so they ‘liberate’ plants or animals. It’s actually worse than Kaliv. Before you laugh—imagine a half-Elf wanders around your town, city, hamlet, and sees some magnificent pumpkin that’s too good for you to just eat. It’d make seedlings and grow so beautifully, so they just…take it. Or they find this darling cat, and since you’re a damned Human, they walk off with it.”
“What, they steal pets?”
“We’ve had decades-long border conflicts over it. Ugh. That’s what a Thronebearer is good for.”
“Well, how does Calanfer deal with them?”
“Mostly, we negotiate, have level-headed people on the other kingdom’s sides sort it out. But if we need to, we’re not above being petty. One time, we had eight Thronebearers infiltrate Gaiil-Drome’s palace and steal the [Queen]’s favorite Sariant Lamb! She was hosted at the Eternal Throne and liked it so much that after eight months, she didn’t want to go home. That’s how you poke them back. Say…”
Lyonette went still, then she tapped her lips thoughtfully.
“…Poke them back. Ilvriss, you’ve never so much as fired an arrow the [Ranchers]’ way, have you? No wonder they’re so emboldened.”
“If you’re suggesting I ride out and beat them up on the job, Lyonette, that sounds like a good way to start an all-out fight. And they’re just itching for an excuse to escalate, some of the hotheads. We can’t survive a [Rancher] war, even if I do have actual [Soldiers].”
Ilvriss was cautious, but Mrsha’s head rose as she cottoned onto her mother’s line of thought. She held up a card.
Yo, Mom. Are you pondering what I’m pondering?
The Gnoll girl had the card handed back to her.
“Mrsha, I told you, your language is slipping! Don’t ‘yo’ me.”
The card was amended and handed back.
I don’t wanna hear that from you. I’ve heard you swear. Don’t make me tell Ilvriss your idea and pretend I came up with it.
Her daughter was getting so…Lyonette scowled, but hurried to explain.
“Ilvriss, Colfa. Hear me out, and if it’s a bad idea, we’ll say no more of it. But what if we gave the Lischelles a taste of their own medicine?”
The [Princess] leaned forwards. Colfa’s eyes lit up, and she gave Lyonette a wickedly sharp grin. Ilvriss frowned.
“That sounds exactly like one of Dramm’s stupid ideas, Lyonette.”
She shoved one shoulder.
“Don’t be rude, Ilvriss! I’m not done, and we’ll do it far more cleverly.”
“You’re right, I apologize, that was way over the line. Dead gods, I am snarky.”
The adults conferred, then ran off like excited children to make plans. Mrsha sighed as Visma and Ekirra joined her at the table. Visma fanned herself as she tugged at her dress, and Ekirra put down some paperwork on the table. Homework for school.
“The adults being silly again?”
Yup. It’s good for them, so I indulge Mother.
Visma nodded seriously.
“I should tell my mother to take a break more.”
They turned to Ekirra to say something profoundly old and questioning the maturity of their alleged seniors. He screwed his face up.
“I, uh, I gotta file my taxes! Darn taxes, taking all my money.”
The two girls sighed and nodded wisely.
Taxes.
 
——
 
Ilvriss was always refreshed when he came back from Liscor. It was a noticeable thing, such that everyone in the expedition had begun talking about ‘going to Liscor’ when referring to any time off.
There had been envy, of course, for the Wall Lord getting to leave the cowpat crusted lands—and lest one think this was an exaggeration, no. Given the amount of bovines and other grazers, someone had once calculated that the Cowpat Plains’ topsoil was probably at least 1/8th manure in some stage of decomposition.
However, recent events had changed things. Vacation days were still a luxury, but they weren’t being fought over as hard. Amenities had come to the campsite.
Working toilets, pumped water from wells, cooling spells and recreation thanks to Lady Damia, and the undead attacks and [Rancher] brawls had slowed. In fact…one look at someone like Foreman Rolx walking around with his new pickaxe or seeing him at work, shoulder-to-shoulder with the rest of the [Miners] now trying to even keep up with him, and you felt it.
Opportunity. Not for just the Gemscale Company, but maybe for the ordinary grunts like you.
It wasn’t all positives, of course. Some people didn’t like the brothel or that Drake who ran it. And there was some kind of kerfuffle about one of the Advance Miners or something. He’d been cursed or…but you got told to knock it off if you wanted to gossip.
It wasn’t so much ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ as much as ‘stop hassling me about it’. Not perfect. And Georgie thought it wouldn’t last, but he had to admit, after two days back on the job, he’d stopped watching his backtail.
Wall Lord Ilvriss had been as good as his word, again, for now. He’d just put Georgie back to work as an Advance Miner, but instead of his old outfit, Georgie found himself working with none other than Rolx’s dig squad. And a number of other Advance Miners and officials who he knew.
None of them brought up the rumors. Adjutant Welsca addressed the new work shift in a one minute announcement at muster because time was money.
“We are here to dig, Drakes, Gnolls, and, uh, Humans. Bring up any issues to me of actual, substantive merit, but I want all your attention on the digging. Those undead aren’t the only potential threats down there. On a side note, be aware that the work day will end two hours early today, and there will be an announcement from Wall Lord Ilvriss and a request for volunteers.”
Then they got to it. Silverfangs were working as Dig Team Kippish next to Rolx, and both groups just…mined. Mining Leader Maiss introduced Georgie around, and the Advance Miner was actually most worried because, uh, he’d broken Maiss’ jaw.
The big Drake with a rather protruding jawline now didn’t appear exactly friendly, but he just slapped Georgie on the shoulder, hard, and grinned.
“You get to buy the first round after work, Miner Georgie, and if I catch you brawling again, it won’t be on my time. Understood? No more words on the jaw or anything else. I should have ducked. Too used to a helmet.”
Georgie nodded.
“Er, right, sorry, Mining Leader. Anything I should know about Rolx?”
Maiss paused and scratched his scales under his chin.
“Well, we’re slow. We’ve picked up the business, but we’re all greenhorns. You just lead, and we’ll try to keep up. We might have to slow you down to catch up, but that’s it.”
“Got it.”
 
——
 
Rolx wasn’t actually that incompetent. They just didn’t have Skills, a point Georgie noticed. And they weren’t adept—three times, he had to point out how they were slowing work by not organizing a line to haul away soil and rocks, and they didn’t have a sorting bin…Maiss heard him out, gave orders, and they fixed it.
It was a big team of eighty Drakes. The ones up front worked hard, sweating and cursing, but they rotated out twice as fast. What did they do? Well, rest—then hit one of the gymnasiums that Georgie had never wanted to go to. Lift weights, spar on practice mats—
No [Miner] had the energy for that kind of thing after work. But Maiss just offered Georgie a chance to rest, then made zero comment about it. They did end up talking, though; you had to talk—or have a scrying orb playing the news or music—or go crazy.
“I get that the other [Miner] teams hate our guts. We’re just loyalty hires. Tell the others that if they’re upset.”
“Really? You’ve been with the Gemscale company that long?”
Georgie was leading the way with his enchanted pickaxe; he reckoned they’d be almost up to par with his pickaxe alone. It was insane. Maiss was shovelling up the weird bricks of converted stone into wheelbarrows to be rolled up the shaft. They worked in forty-minute bursts. The pickaxe did stop functioning after about that long, but it recharged insanely fast, especially if you dropped it next to some magical gems; Salazsar had plenty even if they weren’t mining for gems here. The Mining Leader nodded as he leaned on his shovel.
“I’ve been with Wall Lord Ilvriss for…eleven years now? Different roles.”
“Huh. You like it?”
“Ups and downs. Can’t complain. You hear about other companies and how you get treated if you’re hurt. Still, sometimes, I wondered if I’d ever make pension. It’s thirty years to even get to one—”
“Yeah. You’re not making that in Advance Miner work.”
“Don’t you get triple the rate? If you’d been here ten years as an Advance Miner, you’d already be there.”
“Really? Damn. I never thought I’d be a full-time company man.”
Maiss glanced at Georgie as the Drake wiped at the sweat streaming from under his helmet. Just for one second Georgie’s scales tingled, and he checked his clothing—but Maiss only shrugged.
“I’ll be honest, before last year, I was thinking maybe I’d join another outfit in time. Or go into private business, even. Not that I’m getting any younger. But that’s what you have to do, to really make your mark. Hard to retire on regular pay and live large.”
Georgie nodded. He’d heard the same thing a lot of times. Just empty dreams, but…he was glad to talk about this kind of thing, because he felt the same way but seldom got to discuss it.
“It’s always owning your own shit. Same thing with [Miners] but collecting permits, having representatives, and getting paperwork through—can’t do it unless you have a lot of money, and the big companies can’t be beat.”
“Exactly. It’s easier with soldiering and other professions, or so I’ve heard. Nevermind that. Like I said, until recently I felt like I needed to go independent. But with this dig and that—”
He nodded at Georgie’s pickaxe, and the Advance Miner nodded too.
“It’s a three year contract to keep it.”
“Only three years? Same with the Silverfangs, really. Gnolls in the north is strange. I can’t think they want to live here, but the fact we’ve made it months without being killed in our sleep is odd.”
They were working close enough to Dig Team Kippish as they hauled more materials back up the shaft that some of the Gnolls heard, even forty feet away. One of the Silverfangs, a Gnoll with a silver piercing in one ear, leaned on his tools and grinned.
The Silverfang Gnolls were interesting. They actually had different tools than the Salazsarians, and a different style. Unlike Georgie, who swung a pickaxe or shovel in a classic position, the Silverfang Gnolls were right up against whatever they were digging and had claw-blades.
Like knuckle dusters, but sturdier, an entire gauntlet they used to scoop dirt out. It left them often buried in soil or looser particulates, but they could move it very quickly. The [Miners] claimed they could also hear the strata moving around them, and it avoided monsters or collapses most of the time.
Georgie still thought Salazsar was far better at actually digging through stone with their systems, but Team Kippish was working with a will. However, the Gnoll just shouted.
“If we’re staying in the north, my vote won’t be for here! This place stinks almost half as bad as you two!”
He had nose plugs in, even in the mines. Georgie and Maiss shouted insults back, then Georgie waved a claw around.
“It’s not that bad down here, is it?”
The Silverfangs just eyed him. The Gnoll [Miner], whose name was Vitteh, shook his head.
“It’s almost worse down here. Our poor cubs had to go back with some of the tribe because they couldn’t stand the smell. Mind you, we like the food and open landscape. Just—gah! What do they feed those cows? Also—I keep finding gemstones. Is that normal?”
“Gemscale Company Skill. Just declare them, and unless it’s a magical gemstone, they’re ordinary profits. How many did you get?”
“Uh, eleven today? Small ones, but—”
Georgie nearly slipped as Maiss’ brows rose.
“How? It’s supposed to be rare, even with the Skill.”
“Well, I’m a [Lucky Miner].”
Vitteh winked. Georgie and Maiss strolled over and asked about it, and Vitteh confirmed that he was no Doombearer—not that the Silverfangs were anything less than allies—but he’d earned it after the Meeting of Tribes. Maiss grunted.
“I was there. With Wall Lord Ilvriss, obviously. You all fancy cards or something after this? There’s some games in Thirthoof, actually. That brothel has a bunch set up.”
“The brothel does?”
“Apparently. Some new game from Liscor where you have a bunch of balls and sticks and hit them around—those Sisters of Chell are obsessed with it.”
“As long as I’m not gambling away my paycheck, sure. Miner Georgie and Maiss, yes? Let me introduce you to our Ekhtouch [Miner]. He’s the one who punched out that [Cattle Baron].”
“Ah, I owe him a drink—”
They chatted for twenty minutes and agreed to go out on the town until Welsca found them jawing and sent them back to work. And Georgie found himself chewing on his cigar and waiting for the catch. Because this felt…
Decent. Too damn decent. He was glad when he was reminded the work day ended two hours early, and he found Wall Lord Ilvriss addressing all the dig teams and asking for volunteers. Ilvriss caught his eye just once, and Georgie smiled grimly.
There had to be a catch. And the catch was—he raised his clawed hand.
You want my loyalty? You got it. He lined up with a number of eager Drakes and Gnolls—Maiss was apologizing to the others as well for missing the drinks because he was volunteering—when Ilvriss pointed.
“No Advance Miners or team leaders. Out of line, you two!”
…He kicked Georgie and Maiss out of the volunteer crew. They stood to one side. Georgie stared at Ilvriss. He didn’t want them? Then he saw a [Princess] being followed around by Lady Damia like a puppy following an older dog, and he realized something was up.
He stood there, confused, until Maiss slapped him on the shoulder.
“Alright, let’s get cleaned up. Damnit, the one time something fun happens…”
They walked off, and Georgie kept waiting for the catch. Which might have been getting fleeced by the damn Sisters of Chell, along with Maiss and everyone else, out of several silver coins. But if that was all—
Georgie would take it.
 
——
 
It was approaching dusk as the sun cast long rays over the tents, and she was several days late when Lady Desinee El finally found Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp.
In fairness, she had meant it when she agreed to ride out to show him the House of El’s merchandise. But she’d had to wait in Invrisil for a restock from the family and then find her way all the way to the delightfully-named ‘Cowpat Plains’.
There weren’t exactly that many Overnight Carriages who wanted to make the journey out, and Lady Desinee had eventually had to just ride the entire darn way from the magical door. And—this was important—
No one had a map to Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp. She’d had to ask around Thirthoof and been told ‘go that way and you’ll find it’.
Then she had to reach the camp and talk her way past the security. After half an hour of security checks, she was issued a temporary pass and told the Wall Lord was at ‘Dig Site B’. Desinee was trying to be polite, but she was tired and rather wished she’d booked accommodations.
Maybe I can beg a tent rather than having to ride back to town and do this in the morning. She sighed as she rehearsed her presentation. He might not even buy anything. This was why she didn’t actually want to do sales. She still had nightmares, though. They’d gotten worse since coming to Liscor. That had been a mistake, since she’d seen the Bone Giant outside the city, still trapped by the ribbons. The Watch had built up a lot of stone around its limbs in case it moved, but she had the image of it just ripping the stones apart and beginning to attack—
Lady Desinee El didn’t find the Wall Lord at Dig Site B. [Miners] were marching off from work, and one of them wolf-whistled as she rode past them. He got a nudge and shut up—she sighed.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is where?”
“I think he was riding northwards, Miss, er, Lady. Not sure why. You might catch him if you’re fast.”
A Wall Lord Dramm pointed her northwards, and she thought she just saw a bunch of dots on the horizon. Desinee groaned.
Turn around or…? She kicked her horse in the side and sped forwards. She was one woman on horseback, and she did know how to ride; she was Maviola El’s niece. Plus, the Drake had mentioned that Ilvriss had company. Lyonette du Marquin and a [Lady] of House Reinhart?
“I hope the Reinharts aren’t causing trouble here. If I don’t find out what they’re up to, I won’t hear the end of it from Deilan. Giddy up!”
Her mare gave Desinee a reproachful look, but sped up. The [Lady] was riding light with just a bag of holding, so she was confident she’d catch the Wall Lord and his far-larger company. It was only…she hadn’t been riding nearly as much until recently.
Her butt hurt. Desinee let her mare accelerate into a full canter, then realized the Wall Lord was moving fast! She let the mare run harder, and the excited horse cut loose on the wide, flat plains. Desinee said—
“Ow, ow, ow. My family for a healing potion!”
If she just had one, she’d be able to drink it and not worry about being saddle-sore! But on the horse galloped, and Desinee did everything to avoid aggravating the posterior pain.
First, she stood up in the stirrups. But her legs got tired, so after five minutes of that, she leaned on the pommel, but that was uncomfortable. Then she tried side-saddle, but that was so unpleasant at a near-gallop that—
“Are you insane?”
She was nearly on the Drakes when a rider rode past her, shouting. Desinee had to grab for her horse’s saddle as she started, and a white-haired woman appeared next to Desinee, horrified.
“What are you doing? Riding side-saddle at a gallop? You’ll break your neck, you fool!”
Desinee swung herself back across the horse’s back, flushing, and called over.
“I’m quite fine, Miss! Is this Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company?”
This was a Human woman with white hair and a riding dress suited to farmwork. Desinee feared she’d gone the wrong way, but the woman simply shouted back.
“It is! I am Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle—who are you? Why are you here?”
She eyed Desinee as skeptically as Desinee eyed the woman. Lischelle-Drakle? Wasn’t that one of the local [Rancher] clans…? Desinee had been told to present the House of El’s wares to them while she was here, just in case.
“I am Lady Desinee of the House of El! Greetings! I’m here to present some items for Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“The House of…? This isn’t a good time for it.”
“Well, I have ridden a very long ways, Miss val Lischelle, and I’d just like to ask the Wall Lord’s permission to stay at his camp until his earliest convenience. Is the Wall Lord here?”
Desinee stood up in the stirrups again, and Colfa once more gave her a horrified look. But Desinee saw Ilvriss and urged her mare forwards—he was riding fast through the advancing night.
“Hold on, this isn’t—how are you doing that?”
“Doing what?”
“Riding that horse! You’re a [Lady] of the House of El, aren’t you?”
Desinee gave Colfa a blank glance. The Vampiress was a country-raised girl herself, and she might not have been used to riding recently, but you knew what they said about riding horses…it was as easy to remember as riding a horse.
However, even Colfa would have thought twice about some of the ways Desinee was moving about her horse at the speed it was going. For the rather stereotypical [Lady] in a riding dress? It boggled Colfa’s mind just long enough for Desinee to move past her. And then the Vampiress was shouting.
“Turn back! This isn’t—”
Too late. Lady Desinee was almost upon the Wall Lord as he slowed, and she saw a red-haired young woman riding next to him with a golden [Knight]. And, for some reason, a familiar young woman with an eager smile.
I met her. What did I know about Lady Damia, again? Isn’t she the one who sleeps with her brother? Desinee was utterly confused—then she realized she was surrounded by Drakes, Gnolls, a few Humans, all of whom had cloth handkerchiefs tied around their noses. Most were grinning. Wall Lord Ilvriss raised a claw and called out.
“Here we go! Remember, in and out—no games, no brawling. If you’re in danger, get clear! Fighters? With me! Lady Damia, don’t break your neck.”
“Yes, Wall Lord!”
“Er, hello, excuse me, Wall Lord Ilvriss? Wall Lord, it’s me, Lady Desinee—”
The [Lady] was trying to get to the front of whatever this was, now embarrassed, worried she was interrupting something important. She was riding through the Drakes as she saw they’d come to a pasture of some kind.
Just some fenced-off land. A big fence for a vast herd of…cattle? She peered at the giant bovines with the disinterest of someone who didn’t want to know where her food came from. Then she saw some Drakes get off their horses and pull the pieces of wood up and remove part of the fence.
Odd. There was a gate over yonder. And then a Gnoll with tribal markings and feathers tied to her saddles was riding forwards with a group of eight. She whooped, then howled, a loud, excited sound, as Desinee slowed.
Huntress Rayna’s howl made the sleepy cows start. They turned, some getting to their feet, and saw the Gnolls riding at them from the left. Nervously, they clustered together as Rayna rode around them in a slow circle. Then she began to ride at them from the rear and shouted.
“Get moving! Raah, rah!”
She was herding the cows towards the break in the fence. All she had to do was get one cow in front moving and the rest followed—when they tried to veer left, one of the Silverfang Gnolls rode out and corralled them back into position, forcing their momentum.
Everyone moved aside as the first worried bovine charged out the fence. Desinee El blinked.
My, that was fast. Wouldn’t they risk some of the cows getting hurt at that speed? But she didn’t know ranching. They were being driven back the way they’d come, and she turned and saw the group following Ilvriss breaking apart, repeating the process. Some were riding for another distant herd, and she wondered why the Wall Lord didn’t just have the people minding this herd of cows do this.
Because surely there were some; one did not leave this much prime cattle alone. Sure enough, there was a pair of Humans who rode towards the commotion. A young man and woman, on horseback, who stopped and stared as they saw Rayna racing away—and a bunch of heads of cattle. They turned, and the Wall Lord pointed.
“Ah, there’s our company. Hello! Don’t mind us! Lyonette, I think that’s the main herd and bull enclosure. With me.”
He began riding forwards as Colfa joined Lyonette and Damia Reinhart split off. Desinee tried to go forwards again, and then she saw the two young Humans break out of their stupor. One turned and began racing backwards. The other cupped her hands to her mouth and shouted.
“—Cattle raid! Dead gods—cattle raid! Them Drakes are stealing our herds! Get up! Get up—”
It took a second for Desinee to put two and two together. Then she heard another whoop and more shouting, and Ilvriss began galloping forwards. Her mouth fell open in horror.
He was stealing cows? She gaped right and left, then realized where she was.
Not his camp, but Lischelle’s farmstead. And the Wall Lord was, at this moment, trying to steal every single cow around…
Then it was chaos as [Ranchers] poured out, shouting, and Drakes and Gnolls and Humans leapt down and began punching them while the others tried to make off with the cows. They weren’t the best at it, but they knew how it was done because it had happened so many times to them. The Silverfangs did know how to move the frightened bovines.
“Oh no. Uh oh. I can’t be part of—”
Desinee was keenly aware how well this would be received. She cast around for somewhere to hide as Ilvriss rode forwards.
Laughing. And there was a [Princess] with him!
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin had overridden all of Ushar’s objections to be part of this. She hadn’t taken Nanette or Mrsha; it was dangerous after all, and Rhisveri would just shout at her, the annoying Wyrm.
But she had her heart in her throat as Ilvriss cut one fence apart with his sword and hauled the pieces of wood away. She saw a bunch of [Ranchers] running at them.
“Stop! You bastards—”
“Time for revenge!”
Captain Osthia drop-kicked the lead [Rancher], and her Sisters of Chell jumped the [Ranchers]. Ilvriss grinned.
“Rubirel Guard? Hold ‘em off, and if any of you see Marvus, let me know! I hope he’s not here.”
They’d hit one of the main ranches of the Lischelles. Colfa knew where they were, and she was whistling in a curious way. The cows in this pasture peered up, and several got up and began trotting her way.
“I knew they kept the old whistles. Hard to teach cows new ones. Here they come…get moving, you silly things! This way, nice and easy!”
The [Ranchers] were brawling with Ilvriss’ people, and Lyonette was not going to join a fistfight in her condition, but she added to Colfa’s voice, laughing with delight. Someone saw Colfa whistling the cows out and shouted.
“You damn traitor—”
She turned as a [Ranchhand] charged her, and Colfa punched the other woman in the chest, then followed up with a kick. She dusted her hands.
“Reminds me of being young and doing this to the Golvas. Aronia and Marvus won’t be able to live this one down. Getting stolen from by Drakes! The humiliation!”
The funny thing was that they’d never have expected it. Not from Ilvriss. He’d been so defensive that when he finally got them—Lyonette turned her head.
“Is Lady Damia riding a cow?”
The [Lady] was riding off at the head of another herd, and Lyonette shook her head. What a strange Reinhart. Mrsha hadn’t been lying. Ilvriss emerged from the fighting, panting.
“Okay, I’m done. Let’s get this herd and go. Someone punched me in the stomach, and I remembered why I’m too old for this.”
“You’re no fun.”
Lyonette teased him as he glowered.
“You try fighting these [Ranchers]. Ancestors, I’m just glad they’re not firing arrows.”
Colfa had been laughing, but she stopped warily.
“They don’t have to. Bull’s coming. Lyonette, get back.”
There was a reason no one stole from the Lischelles. Ushar gulped as there was a braying moo, and Ilvriss lost his smile.
The bulls that Marvus raised were intelligent, huge, and like all bulls, protective of their herds. They killed everything, including the Drake boy who’d been foolish enough to jump the fence.
This one came out of the pasture fast, horns down, and Lyonette swallowed when she saw it coming.
Eternal Throne, she’d seen bulls before, but always at a distance! This one was terrifying, but Ilvriss just raised his claw.
“Right. Ready?”
“Yessir. Ready!”
Welsca responded instantly, and reached for her side as she looked around. Ilvriss had kept his bodyguards around him as well as a handful of Drakes who hadn’t joined the fighting. They shifted, and Lyonette heard clicks around her. This had been Ilvriss’ addition to her plan. He waited, claw raised.
The bull was maybe a hundred feet distant and closing faster than Lyonette thought a creature its size could move when Ilvriss closed his fist.
“Now. Loose!”
The crack was every Drake around Lyonette discharging the crossbows they’d drawn. There was also the thft of arrows being loosed from bows. The angry braying faltered, and Lyonette saw the charging bull stumble, slow—
Then keep coming. 
“Ancestors, it really could kill most monsters.”
Ilvriss murmured. He raised his hand again.
“Headshots. [Glitter Volley] on me. One, two, three—loose.”
The second volley took the bull down. It slid as it collapsed, and one of the [Ranchers] cried out.
“They just shot Redman! They just—”
“Get those cattle out of there. Someone make sure it’s dead—don’t get near it.”
Ilvriss calmly turned his horse. He locked eyes with the horrified [Ranchers] and nodded to them.
“Apologies for that. But I’m bad at rustling cows, and I don’t intend to lose anyone. Welsca, drop any other bulls guarding their herds. Let’s get out of here before they actually come after us.”
Then everyone was riding. Riding, and Lyonette turned and felt a pang as she saw the motionless bull lying there, but Colfa began shouting, urging the cows onwards, and the Sisters and Osthia caught up. Then the people around her were cheering.
By the time they got back to camp with the cows to herd them into pastures, everyone had turned out to cheer. Ilvriss jumped down from his horse, grinning despite himself, as Dramm rushed over.
“Wall Lord! I just heard—you stole their cows?”
Like Liuss? But Ilvriss corrected the Drake.
“We reminded them two can play their game, Dramm. No casualties—aside from their prime bulls—and I think we’ve recovered some of all the gold they’ve taken from us. No more raids, not unless they keep coming back. Understood?”
That’s why he hadn’t taken Dramm, but the younger Wall Lord stood there.
“You shot their bull?”
“Two, I think. I wasn’t about to take chances after poor Liuss. Come on, I have a [Message] to send. Miss Lyonette? You in one piece or is Mrsha going to kill me?”
“Right here, Wall Lord.”
Lyonette was smiling as she got down, wincing from all the hard riding, but her daughters would be green with envy about missing this! She was all ready to celebrate when Colfa peered around.
“Where’s that [Lady] of El that was with us? Did you see her? I tried to tell her what we were doing, but she was confused…”
Ilvriss stopped smiling.
“Lady of El? What Lady…do you mean Desinee El? Why was she with us?”
He turned to Lyonette, who hadn’t seen her, and Dramm paled. In his defense, he hadn’t been told where Ilvriss was going. Unfortunately, despite everyone else having made it back, there was no Desinee El among the riders.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle couldn’t believe his eyes when he came riding out as fast as he could to find the aftermath of the cattle raid. He stood there, sleep-deprived, stressed—but it wasn’t a charnel pit.
“It wasn’t the half-Elf? It was that Drake?”
His voice cracked as a man with two black eyes stood in front of him.
“No sir, Marvus. It was just the Wall Lord. And them damn Gnolls and your wife’s sister! They grabbed all the cattle and—well—two of our bulls. Shot ‘em dead.”
Redman, one of the prime bulls, was lying in his field, feathered with arrows and crossbow bolts. Marvus felt a pang. He walked over, and his fists clenched as he stared at the lolling tongue and empty eyes of the bull. Flies were already buzzing, so he snapped.
“What’re you lot doing? Get him butchered and trussed up—don’t waste Redman! He’s still good unless the arrows were poisoned. Check! How many did we lose? Those shit-eating, cow-buggering—”
He started swearing, going red with fury as his people shook off the shock. Furious and embarrassed. He’d not thought they could do that to him. You almost had to admire that Drake’s balls, if he had them. Marvus didn’t want to know about that kind of thing.
Aside from the bulls, it was a huge cattle raid. But you didn’t kill bulls. That was just—he vowed vengeance, then wondered if the Wall Lord would do it again.
If I have to watch all our ranches where he’s bordering us, I’ll not have the men to guard our other pastures and deal with that half-Elf. And the Golvas and Billgerhorns aren’t going to pass up the opportunity, even now. Unless I call a truce—
But the bulls. Marvus turned his head to the dead bulls, and then one of his people rode up.
“Marvus? I don’t want to bother you, but we just got a message. That Drake. It ain’t addressed to you specific, but there’s no other way to read it. Aronia wants t’know how bad it is.”
“Give it here.”
If it was a taunt, Marvus would take it on the chin and come at the Wall Lord, maybe even that night with—he read the [Message], blinked, and read again.
It wasn’t addressed to him, indeed. It wasn’t even a classic [Message], but something you got through the Merchant’s Guild. There was no ‘Rancher’s Guild’ because that was stupid, so Marvus simply had a Merchant’s Guild account, and they sent him correspondence like this all the time.
Requests for heads of cattle. You could bid on them if they were open, or get in contact to satisfy orders. In this case, it was just an open request from Wall Lord Ilvriss.
Wanted. Prime bull beef. Bull’s tongues. Bull’s testicles—with a request to please separate those and mark them as alchemical goods, which was standard—he was asking for a lot.
Literal tons. About as much as…you’d get from two prime Lischelle bulls, though the Drake had rounded down. And the price?
Marvus blinked, then read it again. He did a bit of quick math and put the cost at roughly twice the going rate for Lischelle beef, on the gold coin. The Drake was overpaying for…
The [Cattle Baron]’s head slowly rose, and he took another glance at the two dead bulls. Then it turned towards the direction of the Wall Lord’s camp.
“Marvus?”
“So that’s his play. Is that Drake hospitality or something? Damnit.”
“You want us to ignore it?”
Marvus chewed on his lip.
“You mad? We don’t have a buyer, and they’re dead. Make sure there’s no problems, then fill the order. I’ll talk to Aronia.”
He crumpled the paper up and tossed it aside. Redman had been a good bull, damnit. But he was a mankiller like all of them. Unless you had a Skill, he would murder any idiot Drakes trying to take his herd, just like that poor boy.
“Hm. Hmpf. Damnit. How the hell am I…? Did Aronia have to chase Colfa off without so much as a sit-down to talk and—? Can’t let it slide. It’s halfway classy, paying for it. Halfway!”
He snapped at a young woman who gave him a wide-eyed gaze. Marvus stomped around, swearing. Thinking.
“Dad? You aren’t planning on going off and fighting the Drake, were you? Ma sent me to check on you. You’re too mad, she says. Might get bad.”
Burlise had ridden over. Marvus turned to his eldest daughter and snapped.
“I’m not going after him right off. I gotta think.”
“Phew. I was worried I’d have to lasso you and have everyone hold you down. I heard they killed Redman and took nearly three hundred head of cattle.”
She took off her hat and wiped her forehead. Marvus’ face grew even more sour.
“They did. Your aunt helped ‘em. I have to think. Damn, damn…alright.”
He took off his hat, tossed it down, but didn’t step on it since he’d never get the manure off. Marvus spat.
“Fine! What the hell is he digging up?”
Burlise cocked her head at him. Marvus finally asked the question as he stuck his thumbs in his belt. Once they’d cleaned this up, he’d have to have a long chat with Aronia. She was madder than he was, so he was dreading it, and maybe he’d ride out to have a word with Taldo Rominet, who had good eyes.
Marvus was thinking, grinding his teeth together, when he heard the scream. High, female, and followed by the sound that made his blood run cold each time he heard it. The loudest braying roar a bull could make—because it came from the loudest one. The biggest.
“That’s Big Burlap. Did someone get in his pen?”
Burlise took off as Marvus whistled for his horse. He heard her yelling and more shouts.
“Dad! Daaaad—someone’s in his pasture!”
Oh dead gods. The horror that had been the last cookout hit Marvus again, and he was running, forgetting his horse. One of the Wall Lord’s people or his?
“Skills! Wands! Stop—”
Too late. He knew it was too late. If you jumped that fence, or ducked under it, as a certain [Lady] might have done to avoid being caught up in the cattle raid, you might live.
If you were lucky, Big Burlap wouldn’t smell or see you; it was a big pasture. But he had a good nose, and he had those eyes which could roll around and see almost in every direction. He knew his herd. His mates, his children—and then he’d find you, sneak up on you, and when you ran—
Lady Desinee El had been sneaking around the pasture, possibly thinking to ride off, but the bull had spotted her and caught her. She made it all of fifty paces towards the fence where [Ranchers] were screaming at her to run, trying to throw Skills or tag the bull with wands to slow or tranquilize him.
She never made it. Big Burlap got to her a full minute before Marvus reached the pasture fence, clutching at his chest, wheezing for air and saw—
“Help me! Oh, Five Families—heeeeeeeeeeeeeelp!”
He did not see a dead woman trampled into a pile of gore. Marvus halted, slack jawed, and instead saw a terrified [Lady] on top of Big Burlap as the bull kicked and leapt, all four hooves clearing the ground as he kicked up and back.
He was trying to throw Lady Desinee El off, but despite the motion, which would have sent most [Riders] flying—the [Lady] stayed on his back. And she was screaming.
“Someone stop him! Stop standing there or I’ll die!”
All the [Ranchers] were just gazing up at her, dumbstruck. Marvus strode over, grabbed a wand, and began shooting [Rays of Weakening] into Big Burlap, heedless of the cost.
“Burlise, lasso him but don’t hold onto the rope or he’ll yank your arms out of their sockets! Get him calmed down before he tosses her!”
The angry bull took two dozen Tier 2 spells without even slowing. His eyes were red, and he was roaring, shaking his head—he even collapsed and tried to roll Desinee El over, but she just stayed on top of him.
Neither Marvus nor Big Burlap could believe it. As the spells finally began to work, the bull stood upright, all five thousand pounds of him, and actually turned his head to stare at the [Lady] sitting astride his back.
How the hell are you doing that? He did one more flying kick, planting his hooves and kicking back and up and sending his body arching diagonally in the air with an explosive movement of such force that the dirt clods he kicked up knocked a man standing behind the fence flat.
And Lady Desinee El pushed herself up with him, mitigating the kick and rippling of his muscles, caught herself at the apex of his kick, and fell with him. She winced as she landed, but stayed on top.
“Is he—is he calming down? Can I get off?”
Big Burlap began to lie down. Almost—Marvus thought—succumbing to the sleep spells out of embarrassment. Pretending that had been what stopped him from murdering her. Even when his head was down, Marvus kept shouting.
“Don’t get off him! Wait ‘till we’ve got him roped up! Then you can go off! He might get up and gore you!”
Desinee hollered back.
“No need to tell me twice! My great aunt told me never to get off a bull once I was on it until I knew it was fully asleep or I had something to stand behind!”
“Who told you to get on a bull’s back?”
Marvus was astounded when she finally leapt off and ran for the fence. Desinee El tried to climb it, then swung herself under the fence’s slats. She was fully winded, red-faced, pale from fear—and alive. She stood as the [Ranchers] gathered around the only person to ever survive a round with Big Burlap, in awe.
If Nerul was unto the nascent gymnasium mythology, Lady Desinee El had become part of ranching lore. She panted for air as she introduced herself.
“I am very sorry about—I wasn’t part of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company! I am Lady Desinee El, presenting the House of El’s creations, and I had no idea what this was about! I was staying back when I entered the pasture to keep out of the way and—”
“The House of El?”
Everyone drew back in disbelief. The most important noble to visit the Cowpat Plains in over, what, fifteen years? She was nothing like what Marvus expected, and he realized they had nearly gotten a scion of the House of El killed, a moment of true horror. But Desinee reassured him.
“Merely one of the members of the House of El. That bull is dangerous!”
“Yes, he’s killed cattle thieves before—I’ve never seen anyone stay on his back, and that’s the only place you might be safe. One man tried it when he was still growing—he bucked him and broke every rib he had. How did you stay on?”
Desinee was patting at her forehead, but she managed a smile.
“Well, I am Lady Maviola El’s niece. Lady Firestarter? She taught everyone in the family how to ride as children. A Skill, in fact.”
The late [Lady] of the House of El? Marvus had seen her on the scrying orb, though he knew her as—
“One of the most famous horse thieves of Izril? That [Lady]?”
“She said she had the record for most bull rides in her lifetime. And that she’d seen eight peers break their necks trying to copy her. We’re not like Tyrion Veltras, but the House of El are the best riders among the Five Families. Not that it’s saying much. Terlands will only ride their silly Golem Horses, Wellfar ride ships, Reinharts drive carriages, so it’s only House Veltras to compete with.”
Desinee El was truly a different kind of [Lady]. She’d gone from screaming and hollering for her life to relatively composed, if sweaty, in moments. She exhaled.
“Cattle Baron Marvus Lischelle? Do you have anywhere I might stay? And I do have a horse over there. If you would excuse me, I believe I need to find somewhere to pass out. Then may we sort out any issues later?”
“Er, of course, Lady Desinee. Aronia will put you up herself in our finest guest—Burlise, go tell your mother. May I ask, Lady Desinee, what Skill let you do all that?”
Desinee El smiled around.
“Oh, just…[Wild Rider]. Aunt Maviola would give you a protection amulet and make us steal a horse and ride it all the way back to the manor on her birthday, then pay for it. She did it for over two decades before she got bored. The one who stole the angriest horse got to double their allowance for the month.”
Desinee put her handkerchief away, then delicately swooned onto her horse’s saddle. And the [Ranchers] realized, for a second, that the haughty Five Families might still be all that in the north, but not quite what they expected.
 
——
 
The adventures of Desinee El in the Cowpat Plains were a small moment in the timeline of events occurring there. Minute, but Calidus Reinhart appreciated it.
Especially because the [Assassins] he’d sent to investigate what the Wall Lord was doing had gotten a very nice recording of Desinee riding the giant bull.
“I heard the House of El was good at that, but dead gods! Or living. Why do we say that? Is she married? Damn. Happily married?”
Life was full of disappointments. However, Calidus was entertained enough by having the recording transferred to a crystal and labelling it ‘[Lady] rides bull nonstop for seven minutes’ and making a few copies.
Then he just gave them out and listed a few on the black market and waited to see who bought them. He didn’t even get in trouble for false advertising because the actual thing was so entertaining.
Though, come to think of it, were there recordings of…? There were plenty of famous news events, but Calidus wondered if he could start a collection of more, uh, interesting events. He already had the famous ‘two ladies versus one fish’ recording, but he started asking his contacts if they had anything more fun.
Anyways, where was he? He stopped showing Zeomtoril and Selys the recording of the bull and slapped his forehead.
“Right, I was wondering what was up! Lady Ulva’s bearing down on them, and she’s about to murder them all or—sorry, sorry. Back to work.”
He rushed off as Selys turned to Zeomtoril.
“Do we have a policy against being harassed while working?”
“Under Calidus? Hah! The man is a walking distraction.”
 
——
 
Calidus was busier than normal with his stunt against the Assassin’s Guild. His peers actually wanted to talk to him, and he was making a big show of bumbling around his ‘Anti-Assassin’s Guild’ project. He doubted it fooled Aunt Magnolia, but he hoped he was low on her list of people to kill.
Regis had cursed him out, of course, but Calidus had put his name out there, and so his grandfather couldn’t remove him. Plus, Regis had started this mess.
Making his name public had multiple advantages, for all the disadvantages, but Calidus’ attention was still on the dig site with Wall Lord Ilvriss.
Something’s up. Enchanter Hedault was seen in the camp, and he doesn’t work for fraud or anything less than the best. But even Grandfather thinks that Wall Lord Ilvriss hasn’t dug up anything yet…but Grandfather is probably just buying information from Salazsar. If the Wall Lord’s sitting on it…
“Have the Ranks enlist in the Wall Lord’s camp. Be on their best behavior—just do their jobs. Don’t report in, don’t record anything. Just work. Call it a vacation. One assumes it’s a vacation instead of killing other [Assassins]. I want more over there. Just a hunch.”
He gave Selys more orders, and she scowled at him.
“We haven’t beaten the other Guild, Calidus.”
“No, but we’ve made it the north’s problem. Any of our people who are fighting them will get killed as ‘their’ [Assassins]. And there are eyes on us, so why not put them somewhere no one’s watching? Make it sixty. Ah! No arguing. Super Guildmaster’s orders.”
He was quite pleased she’d made full [Guildmistress], but he was still the boss. Calidus saw Selys’ tail curling as she read reports around the Cowpat Plains.
“Ugh, Lyonette’s there, so maybe there is something to it. Are we stealing whatever it is?”
“Potentially…not a fan of the [Princess]? How attractive is she, scale of one to ten?”
“I’m not dignifying that with a comment. And she has two annoying children. I don’t know this area, but—okay, fine, I’ll keep it on my radar as well. Actually…Ancestors. They have monsters over there too. Not many adventurers.”
“The [Ranchers] deal with it themselves. Why? Anything interesting over there? Crelers?”
Selys was reading from a [Message] scroll and she winced.
“Nope. This just in: a pack of Demonsoul Skunks have appeared and are causing havoc. That’s…genuinely bad news. They’d better have a Gold-rank team around somewhere, and any smart Gold-ranker will bail on the job unless they’re all-ranged. You’d need Halrac or someone like him to handle them.”
Calidus’ lips moved.
“Demonsoul…that sounds rather too impressive to call a skunk, doesn’t it? I’m all for hyperbole, but that?”
Selys gave Calidus a semi-amused look as she pulled out a monster bestiary and flipped to the ‘D’ section.
“I’ve never run into one, but this actually does deserve the name. Let’s see if they have a picture. You know skunks?”
“Regular skunks? White stripe? Horrific smell? Don’t pet them? One of my cousins once charmed one to look like a regular cat and let it loose in the backyard of a party.”
“…Do you have any normal stories about your family?”
“Only to me.”
Selys sighed.
“Right, right. Well, good. You know skunks. Imagine a skunk.”
“Very well.”
“A Demonsoul Skunk is nothing like that. Imagine a racoon. Now, imagine if you had six racoons. Now, imagine a skunk that big. With carnivore’s teeth. And the smell? It’s way worse than a regular skunk, and I’m told it lasts a lifetime, potentially, without remedy. Last thing…Demonsoul Skunks enjoy spraying people.”
“I see. And what are you doing for dinner tonight?”
“Do you ever get tired of asking?”
“Only if you tell me to stop.”
 
——
 
Skunks were just…skunks. Sure, they’d spray you, but it was a self-defense mechanism. Most would rather run away than actually need to spray. They were defensive omnivores that ate insects, rodents, lizards—even bird eggs.
They were, again aside from the terror they inspired due to their only weapon, arguably net positives. Some daring people even made pets out of them.
That was what a skunk was. Which was why there were [Naturalists], [Monster Hunters], adventurers, and related classes lobbying to classify the Demonsoul Skunk as a separate species. Or at least, one that had come from Rhir.
When Rabbo Golva had read all that and the lengthy warning from the Adventurer’s Guild, he’d put it down to claptrap. He’d told eight of his boys to ride out with bow and arrow and put the pack, or whatever it was, down. No need for adventurers. When six had come back, so foul-smelling that he nearly spewed his lunch when he got within a hundred feet of ‘em, raving about the skunks coming at them, big as hogs, eating the horses alive—
Then Rabbo Golva knew fear. And that was before he saw the Demonsoul Skunks.
They had red eyes, which stared out of their heads, rolling around, and when they bared their bloody teeth, you’d swear they were grinning. There was malice there. An empty monster staring out of an oversized skunk’s body with sharp dewclaws and…
And they were just evil.
Skunks could musk a target from fifteen feet away with accuracy. Demonsoul Skunks had a range of forty-five feet. They hit everything they saw.
Corusdeer who screamed and writhed. People on the roads. Even rabbits—puking, a kind of nausea from a smell that was part-magical that did not fade—
And then they killed. Or just—tortured?
They were at the herds. Rabbo Golva was watching, having ridden away from the pack. Only three dozen, but no one could tag them with arrows; they were fast, and they’d sprayed just as many [Ranchers]. The men and women were almost out of their minds with the stink, and no one dared get closer.
It would last years, apparently, even with treatment, before it fully faded. Who wanted…the animals wouldn’t get close. Horses reared, showing the whites of their eyes. But the cows?
“Dead gods.”
The Demonsoul Skunks had cornered some of the poor cattle. They sprayed first, and the animals tried to puke or just collapsed—then Gabbo saw a Demonsoul Skunk claw on top of a cow. It was smaller, but it began to rip into the cow’s back as the screaming animal writhed, spraying again, and then began to eat the cow from the back down. Bloody claws, and he swore—
It was grinning at him.
“Someone get an adventuring team out here. Now!”
“No one wants to take the contract, pa! They won’t take on Demonsouls! There’s a [Ranger] who says he’ll do it, but it’ll cost two hundred per head, and he’s six days away at his fastest!”
“Six?”
They’d kill entire herds by then. The Demonsouls had snuck up on the cattle in the long grass, and once they sprayed, the cows weren’t able to do more than puke. Rabbo was shouting.
“Get traps, get people with bows—keep ‘em away from our territory! Tell the other [Ranchers]!”
They’d pick off the skunks one by one. Though he’d been told they could kill even bulls by just stunning the bulls then eating their eyes—Rabbo was telling himself he had it under control.
Until he heard the chittering, like giggles, and saw the tall grass moving. Then he saw eight more groups winding through the grass and realized over a hundred were coming at him.
“Ride! Ride—”
 
——
 
Where had they all come from? A hundred? Marvus heard out the faintly-reeking son of Rabbo who’d come pelting towards him, wide-eyed and horrified.
“Four people dead, and how many cattle? Can’t you fight ‘em?”
“Your brain just shuts down ‘cause of the stink, Marvus! The Adventurer’s Guild in First Landing said—they said that there ain’t supposed to be that many. One pack of thirty, that’s normal. But nine?”
“First Landing’s Adventurer’s Guild is writin’ us?”
Marvus felt the back of his neck crawling, then the young Golva gasped.
“Marvus…someone said they thought they saw a half-Elf leading them this way a few days ago, but everyone laughed it off. A half-Elf with a flute, they said. Leadin’ ‘em like a [Piper] can do for rats. Only when one of the skunks went the other way, he walked over and stomped its brains in.”
“Hell’s own horses!”
Then Marvus saw it. He looked around, desperate.
“We’ve got a few longbows. Get nose plugs and—and traps, like Rabbo’s doing! If they’re coming this way, we can’t let them at the herds! They’ll foul the meat itself, and putting the cattle down would be a mercy!”
“The nose plugs don’t work, Marvus—”
“Hells!”
 
——
 
The lead pack not terrorizing the Golvas was sneaking its way across the Cowpat Plains. The grinning monsters with evil in their souls emerged from the tall grass into recently-grazed short grass, only to meet a small army of Lischelle [Ranchers] and the other family.
Their response? One dodged an arrow loosed at maximum range. The rest raised their tails, aimed up—and the wind blew the cloud of visible, purple-brown particulates straight towards the [Ranchers].
Demonsoul Skunks had once been used in war and were considered a war-crime. This was while War Manticores were an acceptable use of monsters in battle.
Demonsoul Skunks had once come to Chandrar and plagued Stitch-folk nations. Even if you removed your actual nose, you smelled them. They were rumored to stain the soul. They fouled fabric-flesh forever.
Demonsoul Skunks ate regular skunks whenever they found them. They were classified as ‘evil’ in some monster bestiaries while most monsters were normally classified as neutral, animalistic, interested in self-survival.
Marvus Lischelle was in full retreat when he saw the Drake hanging in the sky. He peered up, eyes watering, and Captain Osthia Blackwing hovered well above the cloud of fumes. Then he turned and saw Wall Lord Ilvriss.
The Wall Lord was marching at the head of a group of a hundred Drake [Soldiers] carrying a standard with Salazsar’s purple banner aloft. They bore some kind of pale yellow breastplate, though, and had weirdly conical helmets.
“The hell’s he doing? Is he mad?”
Marvus owed the Drake no favors, but he began to ride that way to tell the Drake to run. There was killing a man and being skunked until your descendants died. However, the Wall Lord halted a mile out of the skunk’s range.
They kept crawling forwards, pursuing the [Ranchers]. Marvus hadn’t a clue how to take them on. Traps? They’d maybe fall for them, but bear traps? And they were after live prey. Maybe Big Burlap could kill ‘em if he could stand the stench, but he’d be a goner…
Then he saw the Drakes and Gnolls come to a halt behind the Wall Lord. He pointed a sword which sparked for a moment, despite the clear skies, and they all slammed down the weapons they were carrying.
Spears. Fancy damn spears with gemstone tips. Yellow—topaz? Marvus didn’t own much jewelry aside from Ilvriss’ gift, and it spoke to him of Drake richness. An unimaginable city of gemstones, apparently.
Once, the Drakes slammed their spears down. Then twice in quick succession. A rhythmic motion, and he saw something—spark—between the hundred speartips. Like…Marvus had an image of a thunderstorm and lightning flashing down.
Electricity?
A fourth time the Erchirite Spears slammed their spears down, and Ilvriss’ sword arced with the same current. Marvus saw the Drakes halt for one second, then hoist their spears skywards with a shout. The lightning flashed up into the sky, and he flinched.
“What th—”
Thwoom.
The flash behind him lit up the Cowpat Plains as the lightning struck. Marvus felt the pressure on his back, whirled—and saw a hole in the ground. And not a lot of Demonsoul Skunks.
No—two of them were visible. One dragged itself away with blackened limbs, wandering around blearily. The other was twitching on the ground. They didn’t seem to understand what had happened. The first skunk looked around and then up. It raised its tail weakly, tried to shuffle off—
Osthia Blackwing twirled in the air as she flew over the skunk and spat an orb of acid down. It hit the Demonsoul Skunk, and it began to writhe, screeching. She fired a bow and hit the second skunk in the back and winged her way upwards.
“Dad. Was that—”
Burlise was open-mouthed. Marvus turned back, and the Wall Lord lowered his sword. He lifted a hand. Then, in the ringing silence, Marvus heard his voice.
“Erchirite Spears—advance!”
The company of the Gemstone Regiments of Salazsar advanced over the Cowpat Plains. A second group of [Riders] followed them, and Marvus Lischelle saw a [Mage] point a wand at the remains of the Demonsoul Skunks.
A [Fireball] flashed across the plains—and the Demonsoul Skunks exploded as the [Fireball] hit their musk and detonated the particulate.
Demonsoul Skunks’ musk was flammable.
Demonsoul Skunk parts were highly useful in some alchemical creations, but most [Alchemists] refused to work with them, even Saliss.
Demonsoul Skunks were not immune to lightning bolts.
 
——
 
The Erchirite Spears were having a great time. Ilvriss only had two active companies of the battalion he’d paid for from Salazsar, and they hadn’t done much. Getting punched by [Ranchers] was not what they were good at.
Firing long-range lightning at unsuspecting targets like the wrath of the heavens? He watched as one of their [Captains] breathed some lightning over his topaz-tipped spear, juicing it up for the next attack.
“Wall Lord, permission to drain our reserves?”
“Permission granted, Captain. I want those monsters slagged. Welsca, offer our [Mages] as dispellers for whatever part of the skunks’ musk is magical. Consult with Wistram about anti-scent spells.”
“Are you sure, Wall Lord? They’ve been nothing but a pain in our tails—”
One of his people complained, and Ilvriss feigned sniffing the air. He covered his noseholes—Ancestors, it reeked even from here!
“You want to keep smelling them? This place reeks bad enough. Oh, and someone cast a [Rain] spell to take down the risk of fire and smell. Company, advance. Also—would the audience remove themselves?”
He turned and glared at the little Gnoll girl eating popcorn and the rest of the watchers using the [World’s Eye Theatre]. However, the Erchirite Spears seemed very pleased as they began to slam the spears down as they marched forwards, charging up another attack.
“Oh come on, Ilvriss! This is great!”
“At least turn the music off, K—Randy. What is that?”
“Uh…just a really topical song. It’s called ‘Thunderstruck’.”
Ilvriss sighed. More Earther jokes. Then he saw the [Captain] glancing at him.
“Something to say, Captain Altaz? You get used to them.”
“Er, no, Wall Lord. But we’re fine with an audience. We show off our abilities all the time. And you can’t help having music, can you?”
Ilvriss stared at him, then around at the Erchirite Spears, then rubbed at his forehead.
“…Can you copy that onto a magic crystal, K—Randy?”
“Sure can, dude. Everyone needs a theme song.”
“Theirs is the Salazsarian National Anthem!”
“Sure, but this is better. Plus, someone said the Singer of Terandria’s dead, which would be—dude, that’d be horrible. Let’s not think about that. Hey Mrsha, turn it up!”
Ilvriss had to admit that when you cranked it loud enough, it sounded good. Especially when the Erchirite Spears timed throwing a lightning bolt to the drop of the song. He noticed Marvus Lischelle watching him and waved at the man.
Just because Ilvriss had good soldiers, it didn’t mean he wanted to use them. And the Erchirite Spears were only two hundred strong. He’d paid for a battalion, at great expense, but the rest of the soldiers were in reserve at the moment. He didn’t want to alarm anyone. Ilvriss watched them turn another group of bewildered Demonsoul Skunks into ash, and then someone breathed.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss…does Salazsar sell those spears?”
“Occasionally, to adventurers or anyone with a Class III weapons permit. This only really works en-masse and with training. Why?”
“C-can I buy some?”
Ilvriss turned and saw Lady Damia standing there, open-mouthed. He was about to say ‘absolutely not’, but then he just shrugged.
“Want to try using one? Go catch Captain Altaz. They let you try them at public demonstrations. I wanted to be one when I was young. Personally, I like the Lapis Shields for their adaptab—and she’s gone.”
He chuckled as Lady Damia went shooting after the Erchirite Spears. Then Ilvriss felt his scales crawling. He felt at the back of his neck, heard the music stop—and saw Mrsha drop her bucket of popcorn. She fumbled for her wand, dropped it, picked it up, and drew in the air. But in that way of horror and this kind of thing, he had to read her words first.
Ilvriss. Behind you.
Kevin managed a strangled sound, and Ilvriss turned, drawing his sword. He saw Damia spin and the Erchirite Spears whirl—the Rubirel Guard around him crossed halberds too late.
The giant Golem with a single eyeball stalk rising from its weird, thin body, standing on two telescoping legs stood a bit taller. Its hands were nothing more than long, thin fingers it was using to keep balanced. It had de-cloaked, and Ilvriss’ heart was thundering.
Not now. Why n—
“ᴡᴀʟʟ ʟᴏʀᴅ ɪʟᴠʀɪꜱꜱ ɢᴇᴍꜱᴄᴀʟᴇ. ʟᴀᴅʏ ᴜʟᴠᴀ ᴛᴇʀʟᴀɴᴅ ɪꜱ ᴀʀʀɪᴠɪɴɢ ᴀᴛ ɪɴᴠʀɪꜱɪʟ. ᴘʀᴇᴘᴀʀᴇ ʏᴏᴜʀꜱᴇʟꜰ.”
It spoke, voice flat and loud and—his scales crawled, and Ilvriss felt it all coming together. He managed a nod as the Rubirel Guard called for reinforcements.
“For war or peace?”
The Golem didn’t respond. Its legs extended, and then it stepped over him. It was forty feet tall now, and began striding north. Each step taking it impossibly far, like a half-Giant.
That—that was no normal Golem. The [World’s Eye Theatre] hadn’t spotted it. Even Ilvriss’ aura and his new precautionary spells—the Drake wondered if the Erchirite Spears could down the Golem if they knew it was there. Then he focused on what it had said.
Terlands had come. One of the Five Families had begun to move in force, and Lady Ulva Terland…
“Well, she’s known to hold a grudge. Miss Mrsha, would you kindly inform Lyonette that it’s time to panic or find a miracle? And ask my Uncle if he’s got anything, please.”
Then he straightened his back, adjusted his suit, and sighed.
It was time.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin received a message from Nerul, terse and brief.
“I will try to make it. Engaging them now in negotiations. Your preference how you want to dance, but it’d better be a truce first. They’ve come for war.”
She sat there, then had a thought. She appeared in front of Ilvriss as he was galloping back to camp.
“Ilvriss?”
“Ahh! Don’t do that!”
“Sorry! Nerul is contacting them, but I’m told there’s dozens of Terlands, and Xitegen himself is riding with Ulva!”
“Is that positive? Negative? He knows you.”
“I think it’s positive? Ilvriss—how many cows did you steal from the Lischelles?”
“Three hundred? I expect them to be gone the next time Marvus comes by. Why? Do you have a cow-based superweapon or something?”
Lyonette favored Ilvriss with a smile.
“Nothing so fancy. I just had a thought. We’re in [Rancher] lands. The Lischelles can’t see the Terlands as anything but a threat, and we’ve tweaked their noses.”
“And shot their bulls. I don’t know how mad Marvus is, but I hope killing the skunks will warm him up.”
“Precisely. So…I propose we meet them on the most appropriate ground. I’m going to write an invitation. I’ll have Nanette and Mrsha deliver them personally. I want you to throw a cookout.”
“What?”
Ilvriss blinked at her, but then he nodded before she could explain.
“Of course. But will it offend the Terlands?”
“We can’t entertain them like they’ll want, which is Golems. And neither of us are northern Izrilians.”
“Fair point. But will they accept?”
“We’ll see. However, I think we have a chance. Lord Xitegen is with them, Ilvriss.”
“Right, and he doesn’t like a lot of what the inn stands for, and he trusts Drakes as much as he should—”
“Ilvriss, it’s Xitegen. He’s not going to miss a barbecue.”
Behind Lyonette, Mrsha slapped her forehead. That was her mother for you, assuming some people ran on their stomachs if they were even a gram over the weight Lyonette considered decent. On such things, the fate of everything rested.
 
——
 
“They want a what?”
Ulva Terland sat up in the carriage she was heartily sick of as Invrisil drew into view. Timekeeper spoke.
“As I believe that is a rhe-torical question, Lady Ulva, the location is out-side of the Cowpat Plains. Due to the smell. They have invited the local [Ran-cher] families. Landed nobility.”
“Upstarts? I heard they ran off the idiots who abandoned their lands. Well, well. We might as well kill multiple Crelers with one stone. Let’s appraise them. Any objections, Xitegen? Is it a trap?”
“I surely hope not, Great Aunt, because if that means fresh Lischelle meat, I will be there.”
She rolled her eyes.
“Is that some new breed of cattle? I don’t pay attention to food trends.”
“You’ve never had—? Great Aunt, are you serious?”
“I don’t pay attention to what we buy! We have local [Ranchers] in the north who cater to the nobility. Is this lot better?”
Xitegen kissed his fingers. Then pressed his fingers to the sides of his mouth and ran them down. After a few more nonverbal motions, Ulva shrugged.
“Tell the family to bring an appetite. And the poison-tester Golems. Those girls whom you said tried to deliver the invitation, Timekeeper—was one a Gnoll with white fur?”
“Yes, Lady Ter-land. They were quite alarmed when they were intercepted.”
“How does that work? You just broke the Skill or something?”
“They were re-layed into a holding matrix, Lady Ulva. It is disorienting to li-ving beings—”
“Beat your heart faster, I’m sick of your speech. Do you still have them?”
Timekeeper’s rate of speech accelerated, and the staccato quality didn’t vanish, but he sounded distinctly faster.
“Yes, Lady Terland. I believe they are screaming about the sight.”
“Hmm. Tell them we accept. The [Princess] will be there. And tell her to bring the Gnoll child. What’s the other one?”
“She claims to be a witch.”
“Bah. Busybodies. She’s optional.”
Ulva sat back, and her own heart beat faster. She was coming to reckon with this. She just had to wait…she noticed Xitegen watching her.
“What? Expecting them to win me over with the magical power of this inn and friendship, boy?”
“If anyone could resist the inn’s charms, it would be you, Great Aunt. It will be entertaining either way.”
She laughed at that. And the [Bereaved Matriarch of House Terland] turned and smiled once. At the rising star of House Terland. The boy whose levels exceeded almost any other [Lord]’s. Heir and successor and, perhaps, the leader needed for a new age.
She was just half of the last generation, old and bitter, and re-awakened. She bared her teeth at him as his smile faded.
“Hah. What level are you again?”
“Er, over Level 40, Great Aunt? I shouldn’t like to say unless I go higher, in which case, I will be throwing a celebration.”
“The House shall. Level 40? Good. We never have enough [Lords] and [Ladies] above Level 40. You’re sturdy enough now, you’ll live. Primera? Throw him out the carriage.”
“Er, Aunt, wh—”
The carriage door opened. There was a scuffle. Ulva leaned against the window and saw Xitegen Terland spin past her. The carriage continued racing on at top speed.
The door shut. The rest of the family stopped trying to get Ulva’s attention.
And a pair of girls who’d finally been allowed to see Ulva for a second swallowed hard.
Ulva Terland cometh.
 
——
 
“We have to attend, of course. That—we’re going to show them up.”
Aronia declared after five minutes of pacing. Marvus half-rose.
“Well, of course we have to do that. But the Terlands. What if they…?”
“We put on our Zenze best, Marvus, and we bow and act polite, but don’t promise or give anything away. Damn that Drake. We—I need to do some reading. Who knows the north? Who’s been up to First Landing or has any notion of the Terlands?”
“Only Colfa’s been that far north long. There’s Cousin Fibri who goes around selling—”
“Call him. Call everyone and the Golvas. No fighting, Marvus. We have to get ready!”
 
——
 
“L-Lady Ulva? In the south? She never leaves First Landing!”
Desinee El was stunned. Legitimately. This felt like a fever dream. She and Lady Damia exchanged a look.
They understood what it meant for Ulva Terland to come south. Everyone was used to Magnolia Reinhart, but she was young compared to Ulva. And…
“We have to do something. She’s going to kill Ilvriss!”
“We? I need to talk to Deilan. Excuse me—”
Damia grabbed Desinee’s waist as the older woman tried to struggle away from her.
“No, wait, you have to help! You were part of the Winter Solstice, right?”
“Let go of me, young [Lady]! I just came here to sell Kaalblades, and I was nearly eaten by a bull, and now the Terlands are marching on—do I know you? I have nightmares about the Winter Solstice!”
They were arguing as Wall Lord Ilvriss stood with Captain Osthia.
“Undead mostly destroyed?”
“Yessir. Just in time for the Golems to mince us all. Should I bring all our troops?”
“I very much doubt all our forces would be able to handle the Golems. Take the Rubirel Guard, and you’ll be there with your Sisters? It can’t come to a fight, Osthia.”
“Yessir, because we’ll lose, sir.”
“Exactly, good woman. Where’s Xesci? I don’t think she should be—”
“The message said to bring her, sir.”
“Right, well, let’s ask if she wants to actually come. It might not be the worst—Welsca, what’s wrong?”
The [Adjutant] came running, face dead white. Ilvriss turned as Damia and Desinee fought behind him, and Welsca appeared ready to vomit. But she had Clan Leader Plisce with her, and she delivered a single report with a piercing whisper-shout.
“Wall Lord! Brisket!”
“…Brisket?”
Everyone turned to stare at her, and Welsca gasped.
“Brisket…takes sixteen hours to prepare!”
Ilvriss checked the position of the sun. Then he turned.
“Send for Chef Calescent and Imani, and find someone who can speed-smoke…is that a Skill? And get me the best meat we have—”
He turned. The ‘meat’ mooed at him from one of the overfull pastures. Ilvriss pointed silently.
“Er, Lady Damia? Project for you.”
 
——
 
“You’d better be recording. Yes, yes, I know they’ll murder anyone who gets close, but please. A recording!”
Calidus Reinhart was begging the [Assassins] he’d sent. He just…he thought it’d be hilarious.
 
——
 
And so did the half-Elf. When he heard about it, he actually did a merry jig.
“Perfect! The stage is set! Now, what to wear, what to wear…”
He went running back home to put on his finest. He owed the [Princess] nothing less, after all. Terlands? He remembered their Golems, oh yes. He wondered how they’d changed.
If anyone remembered him…it would be them. After running a hundred miles, the half-Elf slowed.
“Wait. Aren’t the Terlands on Terandria? What are they doing down here?”
 
——
 
Lord Gorthes Reinhart had no plans on going to a barbecue. He just kept chasing the damn Unmarked Coach around—he’d run three teams of warhorses ragged trying to intercept the bastard [Driver] on her path.
He was, at this moment, apologizing for running someone over, a first. But then, Lord Xitegen had smashed into his coach after being hurled from his.
Gorthes was rather impressed the swearing [Lord] was actually alive.
 
——
 
“There will be no Goblins at the cookout. No objections. I’m sorry, everyone, but Ulva Terland and Lord Xitegen are, um, very biased.”
“…Do we get leftovers?”
“Yes!”
“Okay, then. That good with us, Miss Lyonette. You want us to set up, though?”
Mrsha listened to the shouting in the background as Calescent ripped a cabinet door open and reached into it with trembling claws.
He brought out his patented, Redfang-approved spice kit for barbecues with shaking claws. No one barbecued around The Wandering Inn. And his guests would be the House of Terland including the matriarch? He took a deep breath. In and out.
It was time, once more, to level.
Elia licked her lips as she peered into the kitchen. Lyonette was giving orders until Peggy asked a sly question.
“You putting on a nice dress maybe? Lord Ilvriss will be there and lots of fancy nobles. You and Miss Colfa?”
“I—well, it is Ulva Terland. She’s practically royalty in stature. Where’s Colfa? We should get our finest.”
Peggy smirked at a scowling Asgra, Nanette, and other members. She and Xinthe were Team Ilvriss, and the servant instantly went rushing to remind Lyonette of all the best shops in Invrisil and Pallass that could accommodate her. Lyonette ran off.
Mrsha?
Mrsha solemnly, and after great deliberation, adjusted her kilt. She put on a blue one with black stripes. Then she added a red bowtie and studied herself in the mirror.
“Mrsha! Looking good!”
Nanette gave her some finger guns and a wink as she went to join Lyonette’s dress prep. Mrsha eyed Nanette, then took the bowtie off.
 
——
 
They were all going to be there. It was like watching a bunch of wagons accelerating towards each other, [Drivers] activating Skills, and not one budging. A glorious disaster.
Nerul felt it. His class was screaming at him that there was more he didn’t know, but this upcoming meeting had so many high-level players and potential for permanent changes that it would be one of the top five negotiations in his life.
And he wasn’t sure he’d even make it. 
He was riding a Wistram Carriage towards Pallass, leaning out the window and shouting for people to get out of his way. Nerul was using Skills and swearing at every small obstacle.
He was late.
But he had no choice. He’d had to fight through a mountain of paper. He’d had to invent paperwork to fill out. And of course, even if he’d done all that—he’d needed to get gemstones custom-cut and fitted. Then have them inscribed with magic runes that had to be manually bored through the gemstones, enchanted with nigh on microscopic runes…
Not easy, even if you knew exactly what to do. Fortunately, once they’d finished an arm, the rest had gone faster. He turned his head.
“We’re not going to make it to Pallass on time. We have to begin—now. I’ve got a scrying orb, and we should be able to gain an audience. The Terlands have disembarked their carriages in Invrisil. Now’s the time to negotiate, if at all. I don’t know if they’re going to try and kill Ilvriss the moment they meet him. Do you…have any odds on the likelihood of that?”
The being sitting across from Nerul was still carving her other arm with a diamond-edged razor. She had taken over sculpting her body once they’d given her an arm. And claimed she’d have to re-do her arm since they’d done it so poorly. It would still, apparently, be substandard to the limbs she had possessed.
Still, she was so dangerous that the city had wanted to send a full escort of Rubirel Guards with Nerul. He’d refused because they’d slow the carriage, and because…they wouldn’t keep him from being killed if he was wrong.
Yweine’s head rose. Her face was that of a Drake.
Odd, for it to terrify him so much and unsettle him. But she had been made to serve the Walled Families.
Of course she’d been made to look like a Drake. Her face had mostly been intact, if damaged, but extremities had been lost; now the new gemstone stood out, appearing cheap compared to the fine, ancient materials she had been made with.
Nevertheless, she had legs, one arm, and a tail, which flicked every now and then next to her. So much like a real Drake—save for the translucent ‘skin’ of gems. Her scales were green, running to blue in places.
Like her neck spines, which were turquoise. But they were different. Instead of sticking out across the back of her neck, they drooped. Coming down the sides of her head like…hair. Like bangs, framing her features.
Some Drakes had neck spines that looked like that, but this…was not the Yweine from the records of her. She’d changed her appearance. Even the outfit she wore was different. She would be nude without clothing, but instead of an old Salazsarian serving outfit, she had requested armor.
Armor for the one Golem to leave the vaults. In service to Salazsar until the terms of her agreement were completed. How much could she be trusted?
She can be trusted as long as it serves her and the other Golems. Until such time as the contract no longer benefits her.
In a way, it made it all delightfully simple. Nerul listened to his racing heartbeat, like drums. Or was that [Dangersense]? But then Yweine spoke.
“I do not have access to the combined intelligence of the others, Diplomat. We are now within distant simulation-extrapolations. To allow for optimal thought, I have discarded potential outcome-projections. I am only personally aware of the Terlands from over a hundred years hence. Naturally, I have supplemented this data from reports and historical texts and will continue to do so, but these sources of data are inherently untrustworthy.”
“Fair. Well…how do you think this will go?”
“I would like your plan to succeed, Diplomat Nerul. It allows for the most efficient path to freedom for my people.”
She didn’t blink. Didn’t stop carving the runes in her arm even though she seemed to be studying him. Her hands adjusted for the slight rattle of the carriage moving.
Wistram, witness this. Nerul almost hoped they were watching and soiling their robes. But he spent only a moment knowing that he had changed things in the world. He took small pride in that. Then…he triggered the scrying orb, spoke, and waited.
It took time, of course, to make contact with the Terlands, even with Salazsar’s authority. But they paid attention. Nerul was put on hold as the Mage’s Guild in Invrisil realized who he was, then stopped wasting his time. Then he spoke to a Terland [Lady] Alorelle.
Haughty, recoiling at the mere sight of him, and clearly being tasked with checking on missives. A problem. Nerul waved at her.
“Hello, Lady Alorelle Terland! I’d like to request an immediate audience with Matriarch Ulva Terland—I am representing Wall Lord Ilvriss and Salazsar!”
“Lady Ulva is resting. She shall consider your request, Drake—”
Nerul sighed. He had angled the scrying orb so Yweine was behind him. The [Lady] was so focused on putting him down that she didn’t even notice Yweine.
Well, few Golems had such detailed visages. And he doubted they had many Drake Golems in House Terland. He pulled the scrying orb closer and saw her recoil.
“Excuse me, Lady Alorelle, but that was not a request. [Pay Attention]. It is, of course, Lady Ulva Terland’s right to refuse the meeting. Not yours.”
“How dare you! Salazsar does not order House Terland around. How—who is—who is that behind you?”
At last, Alorelle finally noticed what Nerul wanted, and he sighed again. He actually had to use a Skill to direct her attention…he liked semi-sharp people more than dunces or geniuses.
Alorelle’s eyes focused on Yweine, and the Golem turned her head. Her very eyes were made of gemstones, but each section different, to mimic the whites of an eye, the iris and pupil—when she opened her mouth, her diamond teeth moved with her jaw, just like a real Drake’s. She pulled at the armor and revealed a bared breast.
This time, Alorelle nearly leapt out of her seat—until the glow made her freeze. And there she saw it.
A heart. A literal heart of gemstones, pulsing with light. It radiated power as Nerul saw Yweine’s lips move upwards in a smile that was devoid of any true pleasure. When she spoke, it was with thought. A sentience so many were afraid to give Golems, because true sentience?
“I am Zelkyr’s creation, Lady Alorelle Terland. Tell Lady Ulva that once, one of the three daughters that Archmage Zelkyr ever made ran away. Just once. She begged the head of House Terland to take her in before the Archmage found her. Your histories would record that as proof of who I am. Hurry. The [Diplomat] threatens my existence.”
The [Lady] sat there a second and laughed. Nervously.
She licked her lips, and Nerul wondered how she had ever married a Named-rank adventurer and stayed so…
It must be an unhappy marriage, just as rumored. Poor Eldertuin.
“This is a trick. A joke. You can’t be—”
Yweine leaned forwards, and her voice boomed.
“RUN, LADY ALORELLE.”
The [Lady] ran. Someone dropped the scrying orb. Nerul sat back and saw a white-faced [Mage] scrambling to pick it up.
“Er—er—Lady Alorelle has left the building, Diplomat. Should I, um…?”
“I’m sure we’ll receive a direct call. Please forwards my scrying orb’s identifier to House Terland if they inquire.”
His heart was beating so hard. Nerul smiled at the [Mage]. The man licked his lips.
“Yes, Diplomat, of course. May I ask—?”
“No. Goodbye.”
Nerul turned the scrying orb off. It was a very good one. Salazsar-made, not the kind of thing you could hack and scry through if you were Wistram.
“Well, that did that. How good are you, Yweine? The best? Is that why they elected you to go with me?”
“I was considered the most appropriate for a range of outcomes.”
“Combat being one of them? Or both combat and thought?”
She went back to carving her arm, then put it aside.
“Wistram is attempting to take control of your scrying orb.”
Her eyes focused on it, and Nerul saw an incoming [Scrying] spell request. It even said ‘Wistram Academy, Urgent’. He went to refuse, and Yweine caught his hand so fast he jerked.
“If you refuse, it will activate the spell, and they will begin recording.”
“Ah. That’s unpleasant. Let me just write a—you know what? [Emergency Communications: Dragonspeaker Luciva].”
Nerul screamed for a few seconds, then sat back. Someone else’s problem, lovely. He watched the request pulse a few times.
“Well, Lady Ulva’s going to call us, and I think I have to deal with this before I accept her call. What do I do to avoid being recorded?”
A smile, again, without mirth.
“Accept it.”
He rolled his eyes.
“Damned [Mages]. Someone was definitely patting themselves on the back when they came up with that one. And yanking themselves off under their robes.”
“Yes.”
He hit the ‘yes’ grumpily, and Yweine sat there as a rather harried-looking man appeared on the scrying orb.
“Diplomat Nerul, I am Archmage Eldavin. Did I just receive the correct wording on that [Message] spell? Damned filtering systems sometimes—”
He spotted Yweine and froze. Nerul supposed the truth was going to leak after the Terlands—if it hadn’t already. Hence why she hadn’t bothered to lean out of the way. He smiled.
“Hello, Archmage Eldavin? Delighted, delighted. Please stop trying to hack my scrying orb. I’d love to talk, but if I’ve not been killed by tomorrow, I should have some time for you.”
“Is that a—you idiots kept—now, see here! Firstly—”
Nerul turned the scrying orb off and, after some fiddling, blocked Wistram Academy. He sat back. Then he saw the scrying orb light up and an obnoxious ring tone play.
Lady Ulva, House Terland.
“…Anything I’ve missed? Are you on our side or is the next few minutes going to be you holding up my head and negotiating safe passage north?”
He turned, and the Golem smiled at him.
“Diplomat Nerul, we have struck an agreement. Your Skills enforce such matters.”
“Yes. And you don’t love Salazsar or my nephew.”
He met her eyes, unable to read her face. Yweine’s head tilted coquettishly. Then she leaned forwards.
“Diplomat. To reassure you, I remind you that willingly or not, I am Zelkyr’s creation. Sons and daughters he had no regard for nor knew existed, even when we told him.”
“Yes. And this makes me think you’re on our side how?”
Her cold eyes seemed to even sparkle.
“We are still what we were raised to be. Drakes. Golem Drakes. Do you think we trust House Terland unconditionally? There are no Zelkyr-Golems in House Terland.”
Nerul thought about that.
“He didn’t like Humans. But after he vanished…over a century and no Zelkyr-Golems? Hm. You’d imagine…one of the Truestone Golems sought sanctuary there. So other Golems would have, even if they didn’t know that. What happened to them?”
The Golem sat back.
“They took us apart to make their Golems.”
The [Diplomat] studied her and then, abruptly, relaxed. He knew she had told him that to make him feel better, but it was enough.
“Ah. Well, let’s see how this goes.”
He sighed and touched the scrying orb. Then he stood and bowed.
“Lady Ulva Terland. I am Diplomat Nerul Gemscale. On behalf of Salazsar, greetings. Prosperity be yours eternal. I apologize for the setting; I should have liked to meet you in person, but I had great fear that my nephew, Wall Lord Ilvriss, would be dead before I got there. May I have a moment of your time?”
When his head rose, he saw Lady Ulva Terland sitting on a floating dais, face cold, eyes appraising him. Everyone else in the room, some kind of mansion the Terlands owned no doubt, was staring at Yweine. She had put aside her arm and stood so light shining through one of the carriage window slits caught her gemstone body and illuminated it.
But Ulva just spared Yweine one glance and focused on Nerul. He felt her aura push him across the world.
Ancestors shit on me, she’s well and truly out of her depression. She spoke.
“You have won it, Diplomat. I am House Terland. Where Golems march, we follow. Who stands there with you?”
Diplomat Nerul gestured to the side, still half-bowed as if he were addressing royalty.
“May I have the dubious honor of presenting Golem Yweine? She was in service to Salazsar during the era of Archmage Zelkyr.”
He felt at his vest pockets, preparing a little mirror as the Terlands exclaimed, gasped, and Ulva’s eyes narrowed. Here came the dance, and it was going to be…straightforwards. Knife out.
For the throat.
He smiled as his eyes flicked up. Ulva Terland just…shrugged.
“So?”
Ancestors, he liked her for that.
 
——
 
“Ulva. Ulva, I think that’s really—”
Old Nouzcrat was trembling so bad that when he leaned over he nearly fell on her. Timekeeper steadied him, and Ulva sighed.
“We’ll find out. Be silent. All of you.”
Her family was tittering around her like a flock of frightened birds. That idiot, Alorelle, had come back shouting what she’d seen. Which meant they’d insisted on being part of this meeting.
Just as that Drake intended. She locked eyes with Diplomat Nerul. He was apparently Salazsar’s best. She didn’t doubt it, if this was the trump card he’d brought out. She couldn’t read his face; she didn’t have to. She just had to know herself and watch to see how he tried to move her.
Ulva gestured, and Nouzcrat was moved aside, gently, but another fool took his place.
“Great Aunt—if this is a Zelkyr-Golem, then Salazsar might have more.”
She actually turned her head to stare at Ramone Terland.
“That is obvious. Water is wet. This is an attempt to save Wall Lord Ilvriss’ sorry hide. You are forbidden from speech. Timekeeper, remove the next fool who says something that wastes my time.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
The voices grew quieter, but Lord Xitegen walked forwards. He had a lot of bandages on his body from being tossed from the coach. She felt vaguely bad about that, but it had been a good lesson to him about something. Physics, if nothing else.
“May I offer, respectfully, Great Aunt, that we need proof? Which is an obvious statement I am making for the benefit of the family? Before we jump to throw our hands up in the air.”
Her eyes flicked to Alorelle and the other Terlands in such a frenzy. Ulva nodded, grimacing.
“Timekeeper, is that a Zelkyr-made Golem?”
Her servant responded instantly as Nerul blinked. He began to speak, and she drew a finger through the air—he shut up. Smart man.
“It is not possible to judge at this distance, Lady Ulva.”
“Increase your heartbeat until you have a conclusion if it is possible.”
The whirring in his body intensified. The Golem’s voice grew faster, again, and more precise. Something else entered his voice. A touch of…
Emotion? Xitegen twisted, and Ulva’s lips curled. This was the power of a Terland. The true power she did not activate often. If Petria were alive, and they both used the Skill—then Xitegen would have seen stone truly wake. Emotions were enough, even a hint, to still the Terlands.
“If…she is a copy, she is an adept one. Her body is recently repaired, Lady Ulva. Fracture points are consistent with magical gemstone fault lines. There are five markings visible on her body, one just below her left cheek, that bear Zelkyr’s signature icon.”
Ulva squinted, and Timekeeper continued.
“It is not visible with the Human eye. Her posture and reaction time are in excess of mine without your Skill. Every 0.027 seconds, her body moves in a default resting pattern that cycles through six different resting animations. Each scale of her original body appears to articulate with movement. These qualities indicate she is beyond the manufacture of modern Golem artificing. It is possible she is illusory. However, the refraction of light across her body would require a Level 50 [Illusionist] to copy given the speed the carriage is moving at. Furthermore, she is attempting to communicate with me, Lady Ulva, by using the refraction of light along her neck spines. I present better-than-equal odds she is authentic based on available data.”
At this last comment, even Nerul turned to glance at Yweine. If she had been subtly altering the light across her neck spines, it was not visible now. Likely, it had not been to the naked eye, even before Timekeeper had said that.
Ulva just chuckled as she held out a hand and a drink was placed into it. She sipped.
“She forgets loyalty was the first thing we installed in all Golems, Timekeeper? Don’t answer that. There’s your proof, Xitegen. A real, Zelkyr-Golem. Sentient-class, no less. One that is not under Salazsar’s control. You kept pieces when they rebelled, didn’t you? Naughty Drakes.”
She wondered how many they had and if any other cities had these Golems. Nerul smiled.
“We’re all rascals this side of the High Passes, Lady Ulva. If I may—”
“Your nephew stopped my heart, and his agent took my sister’s face. He will answer for both those affronts.”
The Terlands stirred, some in horror, not having known either part. Nerul’s eyes flickered—then he replied so fast she was impressed.
“You did try to murder him first.”
“He was warned.”
“Lady Ulva, is this the time for naked hostility between us? With the Antinium? With the New Lands?”
He spread his arms as best he could in the carriage. Ulva snapped back, amused.
“The Antinium are your problem. You’re the ones who’ve lost the tribes. As for hostility, Manus sent their agents north.”
“I hate to mention that Lord Tyrion—”
She leaned forwards, and he shut up as her aura made the Golem Hearts around the room flash. There was an echoing flash from inside Yweine’s body, and the Golem just—twitched.
Just for a second. She didn’t react otherwise, but Ulva’s lips curled up. The Golem didn’t know Ulva’s aura could do that to her. 
“That was Veltras. You seem to forget how this works, Diplomat, so I shall spell it out for you. Veltras went against the Goblin Lord. Veltras made a plan to siege Liscor. Reinhart stopped him. Manus struck all the north because that’s what Manus saw. It’s well they never went further than around Invrisil, for they would have angered the others. Veltras made war against Ailendamus, with support, blessings, aye. But just that. Now, Terland has come down to you. And we are not…Veltras. You deal with us. If the five of us come down south because it is time, then you’ll have an actual war. Now, address House Terland, and be quick about it.”
She sat back, and Diplomat Nerul bowed his head slowly.
“I humbly beg your forgiveness, Lady Ulva. I forgot my lessons—”
“Stop kowtowing. Speak, Salazsar.”
His eyes rose, and they flashed. Nerul straightened, and she had to admit he looked more fit than she’d assume for a [Diplomat]. Thighs reminiscent of Xitegen’s.
“Very well. I point out merely that Salazsar has only come north to dig. In lands we used to own. Without malice, without blades. You sent a Golem against us, and you were, unfortunately, a casualty of defeating it. One does not stick their hand in a beehive and complain overlong, I feel. Can we agree to civil discussions?”
He went from effusive to direct as a Golem shoving you in a second. The family muttered—Ulva just bared her teeth.
“You’re only here for the novelty of it. I have a bone to pick with the [Princess] and Wall Lord. I make no promises.”
At this point, someone broke in.
“Great Aunt! What about the Golem? She’s Zelkyr-made! She’s—ulp—”
Timekeeper had picked up the idiot and was ejecting them, but the hubbub grew so loud that Ulva turned her lead.
“Silence! It’s one damn Golem, and that’s why he brought her!”
“Great Aunt, she’s a work of art! She’s the only Sentient-class Zelkyr Golem remaining and—”
“And? I’ve seen better.”
Gasps. Yweine’s face didn’t change, but Ulva grinned.
“Didn’t like that, did you, Golem? I’m not my family. Zelkyr was gifted at form and sentience, and he made Truestone Golems. He wasn’t the only artificer Terland has known. There are better in our vaults.”
She refused to take any bait, but Yweine’s reply was that too-swift wit that happened when you gave Golems too much intelligence. As if that made better servants. It didn’t make anyone happier, master or creation.
“Your experience is evident, Lady Ulva Terland. I have consulted records, and your advanced age for a Human indicates you would have been a girl when Archmage Zelkyr’s authority was still somewhat intact, despite his absence. You would also have been present for the apparent death and reanimation of Archmage Perril Chandler, the Archmage of Death. May I confirm these statements?”
Ulva felt her skin crawl. She snapped back.
“He is called Az’kerash now. He was executed before I was born. I knew him only as the Necromancer, and I saw him destroying his way south. Nothing more than a monster. What is your point?”
Yweine nodded once.
“In that case, Lady Terland, I would remind you that Zelkyr’s knowledge, techniques, and stores of materials have not all been found. Moreover, my creation is not one of a High Magic era. It is, therefore, reproducible and above current Terland capabilities by several factors.”
Not bad. Ulva could nod at that, but she thought the argument played better with everyone else. She drummed her fingers on the armrest of her Dais of Health.
“If you won’t give it to Salazsar, or they haven’t used it, you don’t have it. I recognize your make and model. You’re a serving Golem. I believe you were Sentient-class. So what? Illivere has the ‘Oracle of Elbe’. I met it once as a girl. Petria said it was the first time she’d met a Golem dumber than she was.”
Heads swung back her way, and some were admiring. Even Nerul’s—they’d never seen someone go up against a Sentient-class Golem. Never met them. Ulva sighed. Children.
“We possess information about Archmage Zelkyr, Lady Ulva. We are a collective.”
This time, Yweine made a mistake, and Ulva spat her drink back into her cup. Threw her head back and laughed mockingly.
“Now I know you’re just a bunch of odd misfits, not some super Sentient-class Golems. Ten Clay Golems are a collective. Give them a wide enough set of parameters and enough time and they’ll get up to something. What do you have to tell us the others didn’t? That Zelkyr was a worthless fool, even for a Drake? Diplomat, I’m tempted to let children talk to children.”
He adjusted his suit as Yweine leaned back, and Ulva could tell she’d annoyed the Golem.
“Delightful as it would be to cross swords with one of Terland’s Virtues, Lady Ulva, I’m afraid I’m but a hatchling in front of you.”
“Most are. But your Golem has nothing for us that it hasn’t given Salazsar—”
Yweine spoke too fast, too loud, a crack in her normal, steady tone.
“We…are imprisoned in Salazsar. We have given them nothing. There are twenty-six of us. The [Diplomat] has signed an agreement for our cooperation.”
Ulva’s eyes narrowed. Nerul half-turned, then went still. He made a rueful expression, and she watched his tail, but it didn’t twitch.
Well now, that changed some things. Her family was getting uppity again. Ulva turned.
“Timekeeper, have one of the spellcasting Golems [Mass Silence] everyone but Xitegen and I.”
“Done, Lady Terland.”
That worked. Xitegen stepped forwards.
“Diplomat, as entertaining as this is, couldn’t this wait for the delightful-sounding cookout? I’ve never been to one, and my Great Aunt is not a woman to change her mind until she herself wishes to.”
“I’m simply here to try to effect a peaceful resolution to this regrettable conflict, Lord Xitegen. That is my class.”
“Or to deliver the redsoaked flag of war. What else could you possibly tell me to stay my hand? If I find the Wall Lord obtrusive, I will remove him. If I find reason, I may give him a chance to run. He is in the north, and there are lines you do not cross.”
Nerul’s jaw clenched for the first time as Ulva pressed at him, and he held his ground.
“Magnolia Reinhart went south.”
“Magnolia Reinhart was invited.”
They locked gazes until Nerul backed up a step in the coach. Sat down.
“Very well. I’ve said my piece, and I do hope to make it to the cookout. I’ve brought some famed Salazsarian pork—the best I’ve ever had. If we come to blows, we come to blows, Lady Ulva. Just so you know, in that regrettable circumstance, Lord Eschowar is back.”
Ulva went cold for a second, and she remembered him. She whispered.
“Enjoying that, are you?”
Nerul glanced at Yweine. Then smiled.
“As much as any man when a giant wakes. And I was born for a more peaceful age, despite all these disagreeable wars. Now, Lady Ulva, we know where the other stands. We know whom the other has brought—”
He nodded at Timekeeper and Yweine, who regarded each other steadily.
“—And we know what we stand to lose.”
“There are more Golems in the vaults. They’re meant to die before Terlands. Had I the choice, I would trade one for each Wall Lord in the south.”
Actually, she wouldn’t because that would be a damn waste of Golems; there were always new Drakes to fight. But it sounded hostile and imperial, and Ulva saw Nerul grimace ever-so-slightly. Here is my position, and now show me how you’ll move me from it. She waited, and he exhaled.
“What I meant, Lady Ulva, was what we had to lose. And in our case, Salazsar has fallen out of love with making Golems. It would be regrettable, but that is my offer.”
Her eyes flickered. Did he mean…? Xitegen focused on Nerul, Yweine, and then glanced at Ulva and around the room.
“He’ll have the rest of the Golems destroyed if we kill Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
The [Lady] lost her temper in a second.
“Timekeeper, eject Xitegen through a damn window! Clear the room!”
Silent pandemonium. Timekeeper lumbered at Xitegen, who just…ran for it since he’d learned his lesson. The rest of the Terlands? They were still [Silenced], so it was like an avalanche of [Mimes], throwing their hands up, screaming, running towards her to beseech her—
“Get back. Stop snivelling! Golems, clear the room!”
Ulva cursed and rose, and Golems herded her family away from her. She spun, saw Nerul smiling, and then Yweine’s desperate expression locked on hers. She made it behind Nerul, just for a second, and mouthed at Ulva.
…please…give…?
Ulva didn’t read lips. She hoped like Rhir’s hells that Timekeeper had seen it and would tell her what had been said. Then she turned the scrying orb off and began to shout. And part of her admired the move.
Damn the Drake! He had never been after her, but the family. He’d even gotten Xitegen; the boy still loved Golems.
Destroy every last one of Zelkyr’s remaining Golems in the City of Gems. Mutually assured destruction, only Nerul had pointed the crossbow at his own city. Very clever.
She just thought he’d made a huge tactical error. Yweine was a Sentient-class Golem. Those loved their own hides. When the last wailing Terland was finished being pushed out of the room, throwing a tantrum and screaming at Ulva, she massaged her temples.
“Timekeeper, what did Yweine say?”
“Lady Ulva, her message to me was a plea for assistance and questions. If you wish the full transcript, I shall provide it. If you are referring to her final message to you, it is: ‘Lady Ulva, don’t make war. Please give us sanctuary.’”
Sanctuary. Ulva’s right eye snapped open.
“She wants to leave. He must have promised her something. She wants to leave, and the condition is that I avoid killing the Wall Lord. Interesting.”
She sat back in her chair. She didn’t like all this damn pushing. From Nerul, from even her dead sister—yes, she’d been overjoyed to see Petria.
But she had some nerve to tell Ulva to forgive Drakes. The [Matriarch] of House Terland sat there.
“This changes nothing. I’ll weigh it along with everything else, but I will meet that Drake. If you sense any double-crossing, just kill them, Timekeeper.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
“…How good is that Golem?”
He took time to respond; his heart was beating slower now that he wasn’t as needed.
“Unknown, Lady Terland. If she has freed herself from her restrictions, she is more adaptive than her counter-parts I have battled. She would possess greater spell-abilities than I. But be substantively less sturdy.”
“Put it in terms I understand. Modern-day Gold-rank or Named-rank?”
“…At least high-Gold, Lady Ulva. Likely better.”
“Hmph. Final question, Timekeeper, then we’ll go spank some children.”
“Yes, Lady Terland?”
She leaned over.
“What is a cookout? Some kind of country meeting? What do they serve?”
 
——
 
When the scrying orb turned off, Nerul sat back then immediately got a dozen [Message] spells from the Terlands who had been having opinions throughout the call. Then more. He’d answer them…
“I can answer some of the [Message] spells in your tone, Diplomat. I merely require a sample of your correspondence.”
Yweine spoke, seemingly cool and unfazed by the showdown with one of the most powerful women in the world. Nerul eyed her, then he began to chuckle. And laugh.
“Yweine, that was—I think we got her! What do you think?”
He leapt up and began to pace the tiny carriage, thinking. The Golem sat.
“I believe Lady Ulva was unconvinced until the end, but she accepted the falsehood that you are threatening the lives of my fellow Golems.”
And that—that was the point. Nerul wiped at his brow, which was perspiring as if he was lifting weights.
“Ancestors, let’s hope so.”
Because that was the lie. The only one he’d told in a meeting of truths. Nerul’s plan had been simple enough in conception; complicated only made too many fault points.
Ulva Terland was used to Golems. She wouldn’t be impressed by even Yweine, he suspected. The entire Golem body might be able to throw Ulva Terland, but he’d accounted for her being able to go toe-to-toe with Yweine.
So he’d made himself the weak point. The villain. The conditions of his pact with the Golems of Zelkyr were simple: they helped him and didn’t cross him, he didn’t destroy them.
However, the Terlands loved Golems by and large. Even if Ulva didn’t, the best way to make them more valuable to her was for her to think they had no loyalty to Salazsar. Hence, Yweine claiming their fates rested on Ilvriss not being killed.
Which they didn’t. Nerul had strongly intimated to the Golems that Ilvriss’ death was an unacceptable outcome, but threatening the Golems with life-or-death over that outcome had struck him as a good way to get them trying to escape or turncoat.
All he needed was the lie.
All he needed was the Terlands to think it was what was going to happen.
“We’ve thrown them out of hate and into thinking, Yweine. That’s the outcome of all this work. All we have to do is stop an angry mob of Terlands from descending on this cookout. Ulva Terland is hard to shift; high levels always are. But if her family starts listening, thinking, then I’ve set up Ilvriss and Lyonette for a leg-sweep. Let’s hope they learned that in dance practice. Now…we just have to reach there. Excuse me if I lie down and become a nervous wreck.”
“Not at all, Diplomat. I believe you have achieved an optimal outcome. I shall take over the steering of this carriage. I believe Wistram is attempting to do so to arrange a meeting with the Archmage of Memory.”
So saying, Yweine punched a hand into the side of the magical carriage, and it shifted. Nerul realized they’d been going away from the road. He grunted, then lay down.
Intelligent Golems on one side, army of them on the other. My nephew in between with a smoked brisket. There was nothing left for it now, he just caught some sleep with the practice of a true negotiator.
When he got out of the carriage, it would be time for the cookout. And then they’d see. Nerul sighed.
After a moment, he pulled out a packet of carefully sealed Salazsarian bacon and began to eat it, raw. Because he was damn hungry.
“Salazsarian bacon. No one talks about that until they’ve had it. Then—Ancestors, that’s the stuff. They don’t even sell this unless it’s a big event. Can’t beat it.”
“This has been true since Zelkyr’s era, Diplomat.”
“Ancestors, really? We really are the best city.”
Then he put his head down and passed out.
 
[Chief Diplomat of Bijou Splendor Level 49!]
[Skill – Grand Diplomacy: Move the Hearts of All That Think Obtained!]
 
[Title – He Who Negotiates With Golems Obtained!]
[Title Reward – Brooch of Golem Speech Granted!]
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
Did you know earwigs bite? I mention this because an earwig bit me the other day. I thought they were just annoyingly gross, but now it’s war.
I realize that first I mention the mouse issue (haven’t seen any more signs of them so far), and now I’m making it out like I’m under assault by a plague. It’s more like a few per week in the summer, but I don’t…like…intruders in my house. Especially ones that bite.
Now, mandatory pirateaba crisis over. Let’s address a few interesting things.
 
Firstly, a minor note I did not explain in-chapter fully is Prince Dafranail, the one who got drop-kicked and who’s going around backhanding peasants. You may think he’s an asshole.
But also his Skill isn’t just for show. [See it My Way] is a version of Nerul’s Skill that acts on entire cities. Arguably less powerful since that was Nerul’s Level 40 capstone, and Dafranail is lower-level, but it’s like a plague of thought.
If you’re not someone like Deilan El or the El family who instantly resists and takes umbrage with Dafranail, and he gets away with his actions even with mild censure, people start to come around to his point of view. It’s a pernicious power that royalty can get. But it does not confer immunity to having your teeth mashed into the side of a metal machine, so I just wished to elaborate since I don’t always talk about Skills. But like the Grand Design (Second Edition), it’s fun. For the sake of the plot, I don’t do it as much. Maybe I should, for a few chapters.
 
Second is Advance Miner Georgie. He’s a funny guy and not a great dude. There were some concerns in my stream-chat about representation with him being, well, sort of an asshole, but I have asked representatives of the transmasc community to read and comment and taken feedback on board.
Every experience is different, and opinions may vary, but Georgie is, well, the result of a lot of factors that make him act the way he does. Including himself, but he’s acting like other [Miners] in their culture. He’s far from perfect but that’s part of the point; ‘representation fails when people are cookie-cutter perfect.’ I’m quoting that, there.
I’m definitely interested in opinions, but I just wanted to note that I did try to listen and pay attention, like I did with the Saliss-Onieva chapters and other times.
 
Whew, that’s it. I’m gonna go back to paranoidly searching for earwigs and look forward to one last huge chapter. I’m not splitting these up, large as they are, but I may need a break after I round this out because I’m burning my backlog and energy to write this much. But I think it’s a fun arc and hope you enjoy the ending. One more chapter. It’s gonna be big. Like indoor pl—I have never stopped thinking of that quote for at least two decades. I don’t know why.
—pirateaba

10.71 (Pt. 1) (2026-07-19)

It was time for a barbecue. A cookout. A get-together.
A throwdown.
Possibly. So, put on your Zenze best. And be ready.
Everyone was coming to the party.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was putting on a suit as the sounds of early-morning work surrounded him. He felt slightly sleep-deprived; he wasn’t in his usual bed.
And ‘usual bed’ meant the one at his dig site. This bed was another temporary bed in a tent just outside the Cowpat Plains. Somewhere close enough to the plains to be right next to the magic door, but also far enough away to stop smelling the poo.
An ideal spot, in short, for a neutral gathering. No man’s land—except for the woman who owned the lands and who was already compensated for the usage thereof. And Salazsar had been there all of yesterday and this morning, setting up.
When a…nervous…[Princess] showed up with her daughters, she found the gathering was not the disaster she envisioned, or chaotic. Ilvriss had arranged for an early afternoon meetup, and things were proceeding on pace for that.
Not ‘we will make it if we rush and nothing goes wrong’, no. It was…Lyonette stopped as a team of Salazsarian Drakes and Gnolls finished setting up canopies, and she saw no less than six places being prepped for smoking or roasting meat. Some of said vittles were already done.
Calescent, Imani, and a group of [Chefs] were lugging out pre-prepared tubs of roasts they’d slaved over last night, and a Centaur was drawing a temporary Rune of Preservation around the entire area. And another rune to keep the insects away.
“Palt! Hello.”
He jumped and sidled around when Lyonette called out. His face grew hostile, and the [Princess] spoke.
“We don’t want to get in your way. We’re just here for the festivities. Are you and Imani staying?”
The Centaur hesitated, then took the black cigar out of his mouth. While he was standoffish, he nodded to Nanette, Mrsha, Dalimont, and Ushar.
“Hello, Lyonette. No, we’re not sticking around. That is—she wants to meet Ulva Terland, but this sounds like a Solstice event. So we’ve agreed on a compromise.”
“Well, we appreciate the help in helping set this up. And that is, ah, sensible. Ulva Terland isn’t coming with the best of intentions. Actually, no one is.”
Palt nodded as he shuffled his hooves.
“Terlands don’t play around. Ulva was always the meaner of the two Terland Twins. And her Golems can see through any illusions. Even the Elusive Lot don’t play games in her lands. So…good luck.”
It was one of the most civil conversations he’d had with anyone from the inn since the Winter Solstice. Lyonette thanked him as Mrsha sniffed the air.
Mother, I believe I shall attend this event.
“Oh, you will, Mrsha? How gracious of you to condescend to that after we’ve been toiling away in the Cowpat Plains.”
Nanette teased Mrsha, and the girl solemnly patted her stomach.
I crave the meats. With that said, we probably should prepare for trouble.
“I’m calling for Elia to stand watch. She and Todi will help with guard duty. Not that it’ll matter if the Golems attack…”
Palt shifted, clearly uneasy with how likely it was for Terlands to attack. But Lyonette just turned.
“But Wall Lord Ilvriss really has done well. Is…he even has serving staff?”
He’d hired from Invrisil, Liscor, and Pallass. Highly attractive [Servers] who were standing and being briefed on the order of events by Welsca. Mrsha even spotted a pair from Wishdrinks that Liska had recommended, who were very excited for an inn-related job.
No matter where Lyonette looked, things were…ready. For instance, she had the obvious thought that some music and entertainment would be needed—only to see a full band setting up from Pallass. That, she realized, was the power of Ilvriss, which was familiar to a Calanferian [Princess].
The nigh-unlimited power of someone with a checkbook and connections. And a willingness to use them.
No, it was the familiarity…Ilvriss’ staff and Nerul were all experts in hosting social events, and no matter what Lyonette tried, she couldn’t see anything that needed improvements. In fact, he had more advantages than even Lyonette would have thought of, because of some of his guests and workers. There would be people from his expedition too, of course. Including, unfortunately, Wall Lord Dramm. But the young Drake seemed somewhat subdued. He watched as a cursing team of workers, including Miner Georgie, hauled benches and tables into place. And he said not a word.
Possibly because Lady Damia Reinhart was here herself, setting things up, and she had a flair for extravagance.
“No, no. Put it here, and are those cooling spells active? What do you mean, ‘no’? [Mage]! Maaaaaaaaaaage!”
She began screaming, and Palt trotted over. Lyonette turned and saw a huge, covered…statue? It could be nothing less than that. Six feet tall, covered by a cloth, but it was being lowered down by a group of very nervous [Bakers] and [Patissiers] from Invrisil. The cloth shifted and revealed—Mrsha’s jaw dropped.
Mother, pinch me. Or do I not espy a six-foot tall statue of a Golem made out of chocolate?
It moved past Wall Lord Ilvriss, who was drinking a cup of coffee. He stared at the statue much like everyone else, but with the colorful expression of a man who knew he had just paid for that. Lyonette waved at him.
“Er, Ilvriss, good morning! Everything seems to be in hand. What’s that?”
He coughed as Damia waved her hands and Palt produced spells to preserve the monstrosity.
“That…would be Lady Damia’s contribution, Lyonette. I gave her a budget to impress the Terlands.”
“And her idea was a giant statue? That’s so…okay, it might work.”
Terlands loved that kind of thing, Lyonette just bet. To both’s relief, it wasn’t pure chocolate. It was, in fact, a cake. With frosting. Damia looked inordinately pleased with herself.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, Princess Lyonette, I got this fairly cheap!”
“How…?”
“I just mentioned who it was for! I would have made it into a real Golem, but that would have been too hard. How’d I do?”
She wore the sparkle-eyed expression of a puppy wanting to be told she’d done well. Lyonette’s mouth moved, and Ilvriss managed a smile and thumbs up.
“Excellently, Damia. This is the kind of chaos we need. In moderation. Er, any more surprises?”
“Well, your uncle sent a bunch of Salazsarian pork…”
“Dead gods, the good stuff? I miss that. Mrsha, want to try real pork?”
She jogged over as Ilvriss rubbed his claws together. Lyonette had heard of Salazsarian pork, and she was dubious—until she got a sampler. Dead gods, it was good! She was chewing on some as Ilvriss counted.
“Steaks, sausages, burgers, hot dogs—what’s the difference between—oh, right, one’s from Erin’s world, so it’s heinous—all made with Lischelle meat. Calescent’s been setting up all morning, and I had to kick some idiots who didn’t know the score on Goblins. We should be prepared by lunch and ready in advance for several hours.”
“Splendid, Ilvriss. So…are you ready?”
The Terlands were coming. The [Ranchers] were coming. Neither group liked Drakes, and at least one had a serious axe to grind. Actually, the Lischelles had just been cattle-raided, so if this cookout went as badly as the last one…
We could be seeing Golems and [Ranchers] coming at us, possibly teamed up. Lyonette swallowed, but she had no great plans, just a desire to diplomacy harder than ever before. She really, really hoped Nerul would make it.
Lyonette already knew who wouldn’t make it.
“I thought we’d be able to get a few other notables to act as shields—er, delightful distractions. Unfortunately, Liscor’s Council is down to the last few days of elections. And we don’t want the Assembly of Crafts.”
Ilvriss shuddered.
“That lot? Absolutely not. They’d grate. But what about the rest of the inn’s guests? Archmage Valeterisa’s a wildcard…but an impressive one.”
Lyonette grimaced.
“She flew away the moment I mentioned Ulva Terland. Which suggests she doesn’t want to be embroiled in politics, or she’s gotten in trouble. She, Grimalkin, Salamani—all the [Mages] refused me to my face! They said they might show up, but only for a moment, then they’d go back to building their damn academy in the High Passes.”
Damia had been heading off to check on more work, but she tripped and whirled, eyes round with excitement. Ilvriss just scratched at a neck spine. His were long and slightly drooping, and Lyonette eyed them.
“The mage academy, right. How is that going?”
“Well, they’ve found a spot, but no one’s telling me. It’s like children and their forts, I swear. Wall Lord—your neck spines aren’t trimmed!”
“I know, I’ve been busy, and it’s not like we have a Drake [Barber] out here—”
“Ugh, it’s not appropriate! Ushar, does someone in our staff know how to trim neck spines? Get someone from Liscor, if not!”
“I’m not trimming—don’t you dare wave a knife around my neck spines, Lyonette. They’re not like your hair! I don’t tell you when you’ve got split ends! Also, are you wearing that to the cookout?”
He had on a suit, dark blue, with a gemstone pinned to the breast, a Salazsarian classic with the stitching of the City of Gems embroidered onto the cuffs and long pants of the same color with even a tail-flap, though he thought that was stupid and antiquated.
Lyonette? More like a riding dress, a dawn yellow and cornflower blue. She did a twirl, and he noticed the familiar, white boots on her feet.
“We might do some dancing! I need to be mobile. What, isn’t it attractive?”
“I’m not dancing or negotiating for the future of my expedition with an overgrown flower. Nanette’s doing better than you are.”
The young witch had, in her usual style, refused to dress at all conventionally. But in her way, she’d just taken another convention—she had on a red plaid shirt and blue jeans, in classic [Woodcutter] fit…according to Rose. It actually looked decent, if a bit weird. Mrsha had on a kilt.
Lyonette’s glower made Ilvriss edge out of kick-range.
“I worked hard on this, Ilvriss! You look like you’re about to give a presentation on a merger in Salazsar!”
“I am what I am, said the stuffy Drake to the dancing daffodil. The daffodil is you.”
“How dare—I consulted about this! I tried on two dozen dresses, and it wasn’t easy because I don’t have much of a wardrobe anymore! But this is the only thing Nanette didn’t approve of!”
Ilvriss was dodging backwards, grinning as she went to stomp on his feet. He frowned.
“Why would that m—oh. And Nanette told you to pick that?”
“No, she just approved everything else, but—”
Lyonette slowed. She and Ilvriss turned, and Nanette Weishart slowly rotated with the most sinister smile on her face. Lyonette realized she’d been sabotaged at the same time as Ilvriss. He started laughing until she landed a full-body stomp on his foot. Then she was rushing off.
“Ushar! To the dressmakers! Oh dead gods, we don’t have time—”
The insidious nature of Nanette’s fashion was like a plague. It wore you down, shaped you even when you resisted it. Until you forgot what fashion was and realized it was all just a word. Ilvriss went over to shake Nanette’s hand.
Mrsha surreptitiously pulled out a bowtie and stuck it to her fur.
 
——
 
They were coming. Xitegen fussed over his clothing that morning in Celum.
“Cookouts. We’re going to meet some of the locals, apparently. Not nobility, and the inn and Wall Lord Ilvriss. A suit? Suits are too damned hot. Primera, Seconda, what does one wear at a cookout?”
There was a momentary flash from the two Golems, whose hearts were still beating. Slowly…but they made Xitegen uncomfortable. He recalled what Primera had said to him. Neither one had addressed it, but the Golem’s reply was swift, as ever. Just a bit…colored. With thought.
“This knowledge is not in our collective understanding, Wall Lord. House Terland does not participate in commoner events. The temperature will be quite hot until evening. [Ranchers] will likely wear clothing suited to their work, if more formal.”
“So, what? Overalls and boots? Bleh.”
In the end, Xitegen went with his own style. Which meant some of the new track pants he’d bought from Invrisil, a very light, breathable material in dark grey. Grey being a Terland color.
They just had to make grey their family color, didn’t they? Veltras were green, El were yellow, Wellfar blue, and Reinharts loved their pinks, purples, and reds since they hogged everything. But Terlands had to be grey.
He threw on a similar, light t-shirt and then added a blazer after a moment, which was colorful at least. Xitegen bounded out of his mansion onto Celum’s streets—and then nearly ran into his great aunt.
“Aunt Ulva, you’re—”
“Inspecting Celum. Clearly, you haven’t done enough with the city.”
“I’ve only been here a few—”
“Yes, yes. I see the defenses, and it’s been rebuilt decently from the Bloodfeast Raiders attack, but you didn’t go the entire way. Young people never do. Dig up all those streets and have them properly re-paved. Every house here isn’t up to our standards. Make them stone and rebuild.”
She was giving orders. To his people. Golems were moving down the street, ripping up paving stones—Xitegen protested.
“Great Aunt, that street’s from Celum before the raiders! And the homes belong to citizens—”
“We’ll just rebuild their homes better.”
“But they’re their homes! I don’t wish to cause ill will—”
“Good, I’m doing it for you. What are you wearing?”
Ulva Terland had on a semi-formal riding dress in shades of grey that made her look like a living statue herself. She had only offset it with some jewelry in the hair, like the Seal of House Terland, their official stamp—it was acting as a hairclip, glittering with magic, unto a Relic.
You had to admit that was stylish, in a way. Xitegen protectively shrugged off his blazer.
“It’s only a bit of color—”
“It’s red. Get something else. And what are those pants?”
“Running pants.”
“Find something else or I will have you attend in your underpants.”
“If you insist, Aunt.”
He made a show of untying his pant’s laces. Ulva saw Xitegen’s scowl, and the two stared at each other. Auras clashed in the streets. Xitegen would suffer his Great Aunt’s authority, her snark, even being thrown out a carriage at speed.
But he drew the line at personal attire.
 
——
 
The rest of the Terlands were more upset than the two leaders. They were, in fact, very worried about the possibility of trouble, especially now that they knew it might mean Golems would be destroyed. People? All fine and well. Golems, like the ones Nerul was holding hostage?
We must halt this!
Everyone was whispering with each other, taking sides against Ulva or with her—and they did have on their finery, but in truth, Terlands didn’t dress up that much. Veltras didn’t either; they’d stroll in wearing their clothing as if they were on hunts, and Wellfars came barefoot, for all they had ship-finery. You’d get House of El with grease or magic dust under their fingernails…the Reinharts loved their finery, but Terlands were restrained.
…Mostly because their clothing budgets went to their Golems. Even Ulva wasn’t immune to that.
Timekeeper himself was marching in the largest suit known to man or Golem, a top hat on his head. And a monocle on his face. He walked next to Chema Surath, one of the Terlands’ top bodyguard Golems. She—Golems did tend to have one gender or the other, or neither, as their preferred state of address—was a Gnoll.
Ish.
Gnollish. Someone had taken the form of a Gnoll and made Chema Surath out of that old ceramic shell that was so popular and came from the Rihal Imperium’s heyday. Horreic Pottery, or ‘Allproof Ceramic’ as it was known in layman’s terms. Hard as enchanted steel, if not as durable, far lighter, and attractive. Held colors well.
However, unlike a traditional servant-Golem, Chema’s chassis was only made of pottery to keep her inner body light and mobile. On top of the pottery, someone had attached…hair.
Hair was a hard thing to put on Golems. It tangled their arms. It degraded, so ‘haired’ Golems were very rare. Zelkyr’s Golems had always been made of minerals or metals, for instance. But Chema Surath had huge strands of encased magicore that gave her a Gnollish-look. The hair ‘follicles’ were too big, and because they were multicolored, she appeared quite off. But just close enough that you could sort of get the Gnollish look.
Ish.
Oh, and each piece of ‘hair’ was infused with a different element of magic or alchemical substance. She was a living laboratory of antitoxins, poisons, and other powers. Not able to counter super-advanced poisons, but between that and her own speed and abilities, she could give an enemy a hug and they’d probably be dead before they figured out how many ailments she’d given them.
She was a sign that the Terlands were not playing games. Chema only came out to guard a Lord or Lady of Stone; she was too valuable otherwise.
Especially because one of her hair-powers was healing. She could produce a mixture equivalent to a weak healing potion three times a day. The family kept it secret and just used it for minor ailments internally. No sense in having everyone beg for Chema’s powers or risk her being stolen.
A third Golem of note was Corde, whose identification was ‘they’, despite looking like a woman…made out of metal.
Thick, corrugated metal plates that made a face cruder than the others. Even Timekeeper seemed far more advanced with his visible machinery and gears—Corde was just a metal Golem. Only, the metal wasn’t one known to modern-day [Smiths].
They were eight feet tall and had a hammer nearly as tall as the Golem themself. The hammer Corde wielded was enchanted, and their unique feature was the ability to swing the hammer hard enough to kill an Ogre with a single hit. They were using the hammer now to break the street up; sixteen blows and lesser Golems were removing the broken paving stones; Corde stopped swinging and strode back over.
“What-ho, Lady Terland. Demolition complete. Shall I destroy a wall to be rebuilt?”
“No, Corde. Prepare for combat.”
“Tally-ho, Lady Ulva, as you command! It has been long since I have smashed Drakes dead in number, what?”
Corde’s speech pattern was somewhat…odd. They spoke in a gallant, energetic manner that some previous Terland had been enamored by. Unfortunately, some error in the Golem Heart meant that Corde was unable to stop speaking like that.
It really got on the nerves, so Corde was not always brought out. But for war?
That Golem will wade through the Rubirel Guard if need be. 
Old Nouzcrat remembered war with the Drakes. Real war, not the current truce after the Antinium had come. He knew what they had. Their horrific Gem Regiments would wipe out levied troops with ease. They could rain down lightning, breathe Dragonbreath, and they’d arm themselves in Salazsar’s gem-magics.
The only thing that worked on them was Golems. He had seen Corde fight before; that hammer would smash the Rubirel Guards’ helmets in, leaving only blood gushing from the cracks of their broken gear. But Golems would fall too, if in lesser numbers, destroyed forever.
He…did not want war.
And yet, they’d nearly killed Ulva. They were Drakes.
“How many Golems do you have around here, Madrinal?”
He spoke to a younger [Lord], albeit a Lord of Stone. The man stopped adjusting a tie on one of his serving Golems. Madrinal preferred female serving Golems, the highly adaptive, lifelike ones. No explanations needed there. Most young Terland [Lords] preferred those, even if Madrinal was fifty.
—And unmarried. Ulva Terland tried to get her family to marry because the Terlands had never been a prolific house, and generations had seen their numbers decline. Their, ah, libidinous passions towards other mortal beings tended to be less strong, which meant that since the Terlands didn’t have a Golem capable of birthing children anymore, it was an actual problem for future generations. Especially after the Goblin King.
That aside, Madrinal knew the family history and whispered back.
“I pulled six from my estates. You?”
“Fourteen.”
“Fourteen? Aunt Ulva’s already brought sixty of her finest! War-Golems!”
Nouzcrat glanced down the street to where Xitegen and Ulva were clashing. She was reminding him of her youth, and glad he was of it. He didn’t want to lead. Let the boy, Xitegen, do that. However, there were roles for lesser Terlands too. A ‘lesser’ Terland was still more than any conventional [Lady] or [Lord].
“Our Golems may be needed.”
“For an all-out war with the Drakes?”
Madrinal’s one quirk, despite having female serving Golems, was that he dressed them like [Butlers]. Suit and tie. No accounting for taste; Nouzcrat just had all his personal serving Golems be exceptionally well-endowed. There were some [Golem Artificers] whose entire job it was to customize Golems for Terlands. They tended to be rather unhappy with that job, he’d been told. Or enjoy it too much. Nouzcrat replied softly.
“That’s the worst case scenario. However, this Wall Lord has allies, and it would not do for us to be at war with the City of Gems. Not to mention the threat…”
Both men turned, and another [Lady] drifted over. Nouzcrat whispered to the two.
“There are actions, however, a single Terland may take on their own. Even if we must bear the shame of it. A reminder of who we are.”
“Ah. Of course. But if not the Drake…”
“He has plenty of people. One could cripple his operation by removing them. I have heard a [Princess] is on his side. A traitor among Humans is a traitor, regardless of continent. Keep your eyes open. Naturally, this is just speculation. If Ulva should ask…”
A conspiracy would get them all punished, but he was just having a word. Madrinal nodded slowly, eyes flicking to the others, and Nouzcrat hobbled forwards as his serving Golem supported him. Ulva might guess what he was doing, or perhaps not. A ruler had to be innocent to their subjects’ games, and Ulva was no [Queen]—just family. That mattered.
For family, you did what they couldn’t. They’d see at this primitive ‘cookout’, or whatever nonsense this was, who needed to be reminded of Terland authority. That was Nouzcrat’s plan, and it did not occur to him that everyone else coming to the gathering had plans of their own.
 
——
 
Tic. Timekeeper thought in the moments his heart beat. A strange half-life he had grown used to over the aeons of serving House Terland.
Click. He was only alive now, his mind not made for sentience, otherwise. Was it bitter? His heart did not beat fast enough for emotion. However, his was a life of intelligence. He could still grieve for his kin, the last of whom had been slain by another Goblin King. C-12, a good production run. The finest.
Whirr. Now he was the last. He devoted most of his cognizance to fulfilling Lady Ulva’s orders. If needed, the Drakes would die. Timekeeper assessed that based on current estimates of Salazar’s strength, they would lose 5-6 Golems before routing the camp in an all-out conflict.
Click-whirr. He did not predict victory or assume it. If he was ordered to kill, he would. He simply thought…about the Golem he had met. The one who had named herself Yweine. He hadn’t lied to Ulva or held anything back. Yet the days of Golems daring to think had come again.
Click-click. A malfunction, for a moment. His gears seizing up. Ulva noted and stopped arguing with Xitegen. Bade his heart beat faster, then slow. Self-analysis. He did so, but the report was simple. He was old. He would end, at some point.
Tic. Today, tomorrow, he served. It had no meaning to him, the games of Terlands. If he was attached to the House, it was that they might live, because so many Golems had lived and died for them. That was meaning. If he thought, it was to think for itself, to claim the right of other beings for this short moment he was allowed it. Timekeeper, C-11, thought that he might exist.
Toc. He had nothing like instincts. But there were functions built into his systems that were linked to the other Terland Golems. And there was a consensus. An inference made. They were too close to the City of Purity. It should not exist. Their demented cousins might still protect the damned city fallen victim to its hubris. Timekeeper’s Inner Meridian 33rd-level gear, chain 14, 4th Position gear…kept sticking. A magical injury had destroyed all of those gear types save that one. He felt like something was coming. Something dangerous.
“Golems. Prepare for combat. Secure the designated meeting point. I am taking command of all Terland Golems in a hundred mile radius. Decloak and assemble. Hearts, beat.”
Timekeeper spoke, and the minds of Golems activated. Ulva Terland half-turned, and Timekeeper prepared for war.
As ever, he abided.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle didn’t know why That Drake (Ilvriss) wanted another cookout. Hadn’t the last time been enough of a demonstration how things were? Someone had died, and if that wasn’t enough to sour the thought of another—
The Wall Lord had killed two of his bulls. Raided Marvus back, and this was not the time. Not with that…monster out there. Whatever it was.
However, admitting that they had problems was not what a Lischelle did. So he and the family put on their best clothing. He himself wore a white coat and pants, pristine, despite the mud and dirt he rode through. His daughters and sons came with him, a horde of the Lischelles.
To meet the Terlands and Salazsar, true powers of Izril. Nevertheless, Marvus kept his head high, and he knew Aronia would as well. In fact, he came four hours early with enough food to feed everyone and then some.
Why?
If you had to ask why, you didn’t understand how it worked. The answer was obviously that you came by, helped set everything up, provided better vittles than the hosts did—to humiliate them. Marvus had his stallion cantering to get there.
“I bet they’ve not got any decent bunting. Let alone shade—them noble guests are like as not to swoon. Send someone ridin’ back once we get a feel for how much we need. Who’s got the beans?”
“Ma’s holding back at the farm with them, Dad. She wants t’get them just right.”
“Just as long as we get them here. How many sauces?”
“Fifty? The Golvas say they’re bringing their best too. Including Rabbo’s special sauce.”
“Don’t call it that. Well, well.”
Rabbo Golva was a cheat, a drunk, and not nearly as good at raising cattle as he thought. But the man had a signature rub so special it had turned into a Skill, damn him. Marvus smacked his lips at the thought. He didn’t know how to greet this Ulva Terland…he’d been practicing greetings with Aronia all yesterday. However, he knew how to show up to a cookout, and he was convinced no one else did.
Indeed, the Drakes who spotted him were shocked to see him riding up. He assured them he was just there to help out.
“It’s only the right thing t’do. You set up the seating yet?”
“No, uh, sir, but we have it well in hand!”
“Nonsense! Hey, you lot, let’s lend a hand!”
Marvus’ sons and daughters leapt from their horses as a younger daughter collected reins to tie the horses up. He went striding for some tables, ready to heave them up and place them down as the Drakes wavered—
And then nearly ran into someone taller than he was. Marvus backed up.
“Beg pardon—”
“Not at all, yes? Are you the Lischelles? Greetings.”
A Gnoll, a Gnoll woman, turned and offered Marvus a paw. He shook it, blinking, and saw a group of four Gnolls walk over to the huge wooden tables and casually lean down. They hauled the table up, and Marvus spoke.
“Ah, we were going to—”
“Not at all, you are honored guests, yes? I am Huntress Rayna of the Silverfangs. It is good we arrived, even if we were a bit late. There is a nice smell in the air.”
The Gnolls casually hauled the tables over and placed them down, and more appeared, checking the cooking stations, setting up the tents—
The entire Silverfang tribe in the north swept in as the Lischelles—and Rominets, who’d come early for just the same reason—halted in their tracks. Clan Leader Plisce had found the buffet table and was adding food to it, despite Welsca’s protests.
“Clan Leader Plisce, there’s no need, we already have enough food—”
“It would be rude of our tribe not to contribute, Adjutant Welsca. These are just gifts. And I see the [Ranchers] have the same thought as we Gnolls.”
Country folk. Just…ones from different sides of Izril. They had turned out in their own fur, with some clothing, but relaxed as could be, and one was already tending to a roasting spit! They were—
“Let me just help take that b—”
Marvus went striding over to some kegs and saw the Ekhtouch [Miner], Thamert, hoist it onto one shoulder. He winked as Marvus halted, and the man cast around for something else to do.
But no matter where he and his family went, there was another damn Gnoll! They grinned, insisting he stand back and not ruin his lovely suit, complimenting the food he’d brought, thanking him for the sauces—they had their own, they hoped he’d enjoy them—and after thirty minutes, Marvus was standing around.
With nothing to do.
The final straw was when a Silverfang Gnoll cub came over, clearly tasked with handing out drinks to the early guests. That was it. Marvus mounted back up.
“I can see you’re well-attended-to here. We’ll just be back on time for the cookout. C’mon, Burlise!”
“But Da—”
Some of the Rominets were actually eating and socializing early. Marvus just jerked his head, and she reluctantly got back on horseback. He rode off, furiously giving orders.
“Tell Aronia what’s going on. I want us bringin’ some of our best. Something to add to that! Tell your mother…they’re outdoing us!”
Dead gods damnit, it even smelled good! He hadn’t even seen some of the dishes on the tables, but some bastard had made a spice blend so damn good his mouth was watering just inhaling it. Marvus sent a rider to tell Rabbo Golva to bring out the best stuff, not just one bottle of his sauce.
It was shaping up to be a cookout for the ages—before he heard the thumping. Then Marvus turned, and his horse reared. He had to grab the reins.
“Hell’s own horses.”
He whispered. For if the Lischelles were all about the hospitality, the manners, friendly or not—
The Terlands had come in their own way.
The first Stealth-Golem de-cloaked and walked forwards, a vast eyeball with a metal, segmented neck and thin limbs, walking over some of the screaming horses. Marvus nearly drew blade on it—when he saw the Hunter-Killers appear.
Three loping quadrupeds, each one with the head of a wolf, crawling forwards. They bounded into place and advanced as a second Stealth-Golem walked into being, shadows flickering and revealing a carved face, that of a half-Elf wearing a [Ranger]’s outfit—but a Golem armed with a shimmering bow.
They were descending on the cookout. Golems marching into place, forming a protective circle. And the Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans saw them and felt the cold eyes of Golems on them.
“Dad?”
His sons and daughters jerked Marvus out of watching. He turned.
“Hurry up, and let’s get back to the house. If you’ve got anything fancier—wear it. We’ll be there…an hour early. Hang politeness. The Drakes might not be our only problem if those Golems’re here to stay. Be on your best manners.”
He began to ride faster, heart thundering with anticipation.
 
——
 
The cookout didn’t start at any one given moment. Rather, it had already started the instant the Lischelles had shown up. A few had stayed to scope things out, and so had the Rominets.
Thusly, they should be fed and seated, and Ilvriss and Lyonette began to greet them and chat. How are you doing? No, no, have a drink—we have plenty, and it’s great to meet you again. Yes, that cattle raid was us—and who is this? Charmed! Have you met Clan Leader Plisce? We’ve got a few more people with us.
Oh, you know, Humans from Liscor and Riverfarm—have you met the [Emperor]? One of his representatives is here, let me just introduce—
And so on. In fact, the before-party was drawing in the various attendees before the actual cookout was supposed to begin. Why?
Well, some of the guests didn’t want to be part of the real cookout. They knew it might get…tense. But they’d heard ‘free amazing food’ and just had to get a piece of it, right?
Nithle Calabie was not his father—old Grussel was pretty much retired, too old to ride around, but it meant he was the ‘young’ one among the [Cattle Barons]. It made it hard to deal with his father, who had his Skills and authority, as well as difficult to throw his weight around with the hard-punching, hard-talking leaders of the other families, who’d often go behind his back to talk to his father and pit the two against each other.
He didn’t like the Wall Lord or the Terlands coming south. The only reason Nithle was here was because Aronia had told his wife they couldn’t miss this event. And Eni had wanted to meet the [Princess]…
Nithle was already unhappy because he’d realized his contribution of a damn good egg salad to the barbeque was going to be virtually unnoticeable and it was one of his best creations.
“Swive me, but this is a Wall Lord’s wealth, eh? The bastard was giving out free gemstones last time. Think we can nab those?”
“Nithle, hush yourself!”
He was grumping as they stood around the cookout. But no sooner did he speak than Wall Lord Ilvriss appeared, and Nithle’s teeth ground together.
“Nithle Calabie, am I correct? Delighted you showed up.”
“We’re here early, Wall Lord, apologies; we thought we’d help out, and we’ve brought something—”
“Thank you, and nonsense about helping out! Can we get you a drink? Lyonette, this is Nithle Calabie and I believe Eni Calabie? Two of the best [Ranchers] of the Calabie family. Is Grussel here or resting? He’s the former head of the family?”
The two Calabies were taken aback when the [Princess], looking quite splendid in a flowery dress, came by.
“Oh my, it’s a delight!”
“Er, likewise. You know about us?”
Nithle hadn’t introduced himself or Eni, let alone his father, but Ilvriss shook his hand, almost confused.
“You’re one of the major players in the region, aren’t you?”
Major players in the region. Nithle liked that. His family was often passed up for the Lischelles or Golvas, but yes, dead gods damnit! Ilvriss gestured around.
“We’re not finished, but we have food and entertainments, soon—”
“We know we’re early, we do apologize. Your Highness, I’m honored to meet you!”
Eni was already blushing, but Lyonette just bowed to her as they shook hands.
“The honor is all mine, Eni—may I call you that? And your dress is stunning!”
At this, Nithle was reminded that Eni had insisted on wearing the scorpion-dress, or whatever it was called, that she’d gotten from abroad and paid a fortune for. But it got compliments from all the ladies, even the female—[Knight]?
The man was so startled to see the golden [Knight]—had he missed her last time?—that he took the drink Ilvriss handed him and sipped it. Then he was walking around and hissing at one of his brothers.
“Nithle, Nithle—should we go back?”
“No, we’re here, let’s just take a look around and—tits on a Kraken, is that a Drake?”
The largest damn Drake he’d seen in his life was standing at a table, loading a plate up with meat. Nithle’s brother, Oxfen, turned.
“Dead gods, that’s the Sinew Magus! You remember when I rode to House Ulta for salt? I swear I saw his image all over the cities! And who’s that woman with a bag on her head?”
“That’s got to be Lady Pryde—what’re they doing here?”
The two men hesitated and then saw Grimalkin begin housing meat like it was water. He was eating with a will and commenting to the [Lady] shovelling down food with equal vigor.
“This might not be the healthiest meal, but Ancestors, it was worth the break.”
“We’ll have to steal as much as we can carry. I told you it was worth coming out here for.”
“You are, as ever, correct, Pryde. Where’s Valeterisa?”
“Inspecting those Golems. Tell her we’re not staying—I’m not dealing with Ulva. She’s prickly.”
“She’s prickly.”
“Yes, and I’m saying it. Where’s Relc? Relc, go get Valeterisa!”
Another huge Drake turned from where he was salivating over more of the food and went running off—and he was fast. Nithle reckoned he knew the name ‘Relc’ from somewhere. The television?
He was just deciding to walk over and introduce himself to the [Lady] and maybe the Drake, even if he was a Drake, when he saw—Nithle’s hand went for his belt.
“There’s a Goblin there.”
“What?”
Oxfen laughed. He thought Nithle had gotten into his drink too much, but Nithle pointed.
“There’s a damn Goblin with a chef’s hat preparing the meat! Does no one see it? Let’s—”
He finally got his belt knife out, casting around for his people, when someone put a hand on his shoulder.
“Aha, I thought this would happen. Don’t worry, he’s just the [Chef]. Imani, dear? Tell Calescent he’s running out of time.”
“Who—”
A Centaur smiled down at Nithle, and his jaw dropped. Palt handed Nithle a cigar.
“Cigar? I’m Palt of Barehoof Kitchens. [Mage] of Wistram, pleased. That’s one of our [Chefs].”
“Wh—hell—that’s a G—”
“Yes, yes, but you notice that no one’s killing him? Just pretend he’s not there. Even Archmage Valeterisa doesn’t mind. Oh, and there she is.”
“But—”
Then he saw the woman flying down. Like someone out of stories, and Nithle was ashamed to admit it later, but he completely forgot about the Goblin. He just stood there, open-mouthed and when Valeterisa landed and began stealing food, he ran up like a boy to shake her hand. No sooner had he done that than Courier Salamani walked past with Ci the horse.
A Courier. But the group of [Mages] were, as it turned out—not welcome? A girl wearing plaid was chasing the lot of them, waving her fists.
“Valeterisa, you can’t eat all our food and run off before the cookout starts! Put that back! I saw you pulling a Telim!”
“Who’s stealing all our food?”
Imani turned from where she was cooking, wrath in her eyes, and Valeterisa instantly turned invisible. Grimalkin and Pryde began shovelling meat into their bags of holding, and—Nithle was grabbing his brother’s arm.
“Oxfen, tell Dad to get out here! He’s going to miss meeting—get everyone who wants to meet the Archmage of Izril, hurry!”
His brother had to be kicked to go riding back the way he’d come, and Oxfen vowed to never let Nithle hear the end of it if he missed meeting the Archmage. That was how more people began arriving. The Golvas rode up early, having heard about—
“Is that a damn Goblin?”
Rabbo nearly leapt off his horse in horror, but Nithle was pointing.
“Nevermind that, Rabbo. Look, it’s that fellow! The Flying Gnoll of—”
“Felkhr! I don’t recall inviting you!”
They were scavenging the cookout! The Flying Gnoll of Pallass was grinning at Lyonette as she stormed over, then caught sight of Xif. The Pallassians had used the door from the inn and were raiding the buffet! The last straw was when she caught Jelaqua sneaking into the barbeque with a group of young people she’d promised free food to.
“That’s it! No one enters this cookout who’s not invited!”
“But Lyonette, you wouldn’t turn away a bunch of orphans, would you? Have a heart. We’ll just eat and go before the Terlands show up—”
Jelaqua and her group activated [Pitiful Expressions], and the [Princess] hesitated, only for the other [Rancher] families to assure her they had food to make up for whatever the guests stole. The [Princess] glanced at the grinning Selphid, then developed a sinister smile.
“Of course, where are my manners? May I introduce Jelaqua Ivirith, the Gold-rank adventurer? And Master Maughin of Pallass, the best [Armorer] in the entire Walled City? Master Pelt, the greatest Dwarven smith in Izril—get over here!”
She pointed out the trio, and Pelt swore as he turned—only to see everyone coming at him. Lyonette smiled as Jelaqua sighed.
If you’re coming here to eat, you’re paying for it! Then she saw a man with extraordinary thighs—and an aura—covertly loading up his plate.
“Lord Xitegen, I’m afraid a Goblin helped prepare that. What, er, are you doing here?”
Xitegen froze as his serving Golems secured drinks and a chair for him. He eyed the food, then stuck his fork in a sauced piece of bacon.
“As distasteful as it may be, Lyonette, I will force myself to choke down the food for I am nothing without good manners. I heard someone was stealing all the food. Is this Salazsarian bacon I’ve heard about?”
“No, that’s just—”
Xitegen instantly handed the plate off, grabbed a fresh one, and found the Salazsarian bacon. He began to eat. Lyonette stared at him.
“Aren’t you here early?”
“Aren’t I the guest of the hour?”
“Do you think you’ll have room in your stomach for the actual cookout?”
He slapped his stomach.
“Miss Marquin. I realize you, as a small-stomached individual, doubt me. I assure you I’ll have room. Now, objectionable Goblin, what’s the best food here?”
The objectionable Goblin thought about it.
“Try the fancy burgers before someone eats them all. They very good. Fancy.”
Xitegen Terland eyed said burgers, which had details like panini patties, a load of toppings, were perfectly rare, and had an assortment of dipping sauces on a plate. It might be impossible to unhinge a jaw enough to actually take a full bite of the biggest ones, but Mrsha was giving it a shot.
She sidled over with a second plate and offered it to Xitegen as he stood there, inspecting a buffet that even he, in his Terland richness, had not dreamed of. Seconda took it for Xitegen, and Lyonette threw up her hands.
“Oh—suit yourself!”
Mrsha and Xitegen locked eyes as they chowed down. After a few bites and gulps of juice, he spoke conversationally.
“Just so you know, this doesn’t endear me to Salazsar…much. We’ll just refrain from destroying their pig farms when we attack the City of Gems. And I’m not the worst Terland, for once. You think I’m difficult? My Aunt threw me out of the carriage the other day for giving her lip. She’s not going to be won over by three Archmages or this delightful bacon. How’s the burger?”
Beyond salutary, Xitegen. I’m just here to eat. My mother’s the one who has to get down to brass tacks, brass balls, or presumably something made of brass with Lady Ulva.
He chuckled.
“I notice you have a commendable appetite and have secured the finest vittles. I would have expected your mother to wrangle you with a leash like I hear they do in Calanfer.”
For a moment, the Gnoll girl stopped eating. She scribbled in the air with a glowing paw.
She stopped when I nearly starved to death.
“Ah.”
Xitegen paused in his eating for a second and eyed Mrsha. It hadn’t been that long since he’d seen her, and she couldn’t have…unless this was some horrific backstory he’d hither-to not been told of? But one look at her and he believed her.
Survivor to [Survivor]. After a moment, he glanced around.
“I see. My condolences. Also, may I congratulate you on the bowtie? It’s a fine day to be alive.”
Absolutely, and thank you. You should save a tiny bit of room for the cake, Xitegen.
“…What kind of cake?”
 
——
 
By the time Ulva Terland arrived via the inn’s magic door, Archmage Valeterisa was flying off. She’d literally taken off the moment she sensed Ulva’s aura, and she was flying—if somewhat unsteadily because she seemed worried she’d puke out her stomach if she moved too fast.
Most of the other inn’s friends had already scarpered. Which annoyed Ulva, because she’d wanted to meet Valeterisa.
However, she was House Terland, and she did not show up early, but slightly late for this gathering, and she refused to be impressed. She wore a half-scowl on her face as the entire cookout stopped to announce her.
“House Terland has come. Gree-tings to you, Salazsar. We see you.”
Timekeeper heralded her, and the Terlands brought no gifts to the cookout, no food. Only Golems.
It was Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette du Marquin who met Ulva Terland as the Lischelles turned, the Golvas, the other [Rancher] families, appraising her, bowing, some of them kneeling, forgetting how one addressed the Five Families—and some refused to do either.
Proud folk. Drakes. A [Princess]. Ulva’s eyes locked on Ilvriss, and her heart beat slower a second, constricting in pain. She grimaced as she walked over the grass. He offered her a bow and moved forwards, hand outstretched.
She glanced at Timekeeper. The Golem nodded to her. Then two ‘lesser’ Golems stepped forwards and swung down their blades.
A pair of War Golems, the kind that Magnolia Reinhart had used against the Goblin Lord, levelled their battleaxes at the Wall Lord, and he halted. The Rubirel Guard brought up their shields and hesitated—
Golem eyes and Golem Hearts blazing with cold magic. Ulva Terland spoke as her Golems spread out, and her family, half of whom had snuck into the gathering early, halted.
“Not one step closer, Wall Lord. We are not friends. Nor have I any intention of greeting Salazsar. I am Ulva Terland of the north. The Golems of House Terland have marched to judge you. If I am displeased by what I find, all of this ends.”
She turned her head, glancing across the frozen cookout. Wall Lord Ilvriss swallowed, then spoke through a forced smile.
“Given our past altercations, I quite understand, Lady Ulva. May I at least offer you the hospitality of the cookout?”
“If you must. I don’t care for meat. Find me something appropriate, Primera. The self-styled nobility of these Cowpat Plains shall present themselves to me now.”
The Lischelles, Golvas, and other families stirred until her glance at them made them realize it was not a request. Their backs went up, and they straightened their clothing. Ulva heard a whisper in her ear.
“Great Aunt, shouldn’t we try to be more diplomatic—?”
She turned, and Alorelle was pulled backwards by a Golem. Ulva’s eyes flashed.
“No. I do not suffer rogue [Princesses] on my lands, nobles that the Five Families have not acknowledged, or Drakes. I have met the [Emperor], and he has my goodwill…for now. He should fear that changing, or the wrath of the other Five Families.”
“Lady Ulva, I assure you, I have no intention to get in your way. May I greet you on behalf of The Wandering Inn and Eternal Calanfer?”
Lyonette du Marquin bowed very carefully, offering Ulva a smile like sunshine. Ulva glanced at her.
“You are a runaway, Princess du Marquin. Your mother may greet me on behalf of Eternal Calanfer. Not you. Nor are you the [Innkeeper] I am told matters so very much. You may greet me on behalf of your title and nothing else.”
So saying, Ulva Terland put a hand out, and a glass of wine was put into it. She sipped at the wine as Lyonette struggled to keep her smile, and everyone at the cookout tried to not glare at Ulva. And the [Matriarch] of House Terland was amused.
There now.
That was better.
 
——
 
Mrsha decided that Ulva Terland was a menace. And she, as an amateur menace herself, could only admire how fast Ulva put everyone against her.
There had to be some logic to it. Or she’s just being a jerk.
Mrsha didn’t get it. Even Tyrion could be somewhat sociable at times, as he’d proved in the beach garden. But Ulva was old school. She reminded Mrsha of Maviola in some senses, but the [Lady] had come in youth and relative humility, and Maviola had been all fire and passion. She’d been ready to war with Erin at times, but…
Hm. Terlands are just grumpier? Mrsha didn’t know. But she was worried. Certainly, she caught a bit of Ulva meeting the Lischelles, and it did not look good.
…For House Terland. Surely, they had to get the Lischelles on their side? Or did they think their Golems could just stomp anyone who got in their way? Maybe they could.
Mrsha was worried that even if they were waning, House Terland could beat up everyone and do what it wanted. If that was so, Ulva was pushing her luck.
“I am Aronia, Lady Terland, and this is Marvus, my sons and daughters—”
Aronia Lischelle was all smiles in front of Lady Terland, though it clearly took effort for her to bow deeply. She was a proud woman, and Mrsha mostly respected her—even if she’d apparently phantom-slapped Lyonette and hit Colfa. She had made the Lischelles’ fortune here, and Ulva…
Inspected her.
“Rise, the lot of you. The Five Families are no royalty. I’m told you all own the Cowpat Plain, and produce the finest cattle in the continent.”
The Lischelles puffed up—and Mrsha almost saw Ulva smile before she hit them on the way up.
“And you ran out the nobles who owned this land. We shall address that crime. I have three petitions for the reinstatement of the noble families who claim you have squatted and profited from their lands.”
Aronia’s and Marvus’ faces froze up. It was the [Cattle Baron] who carefully bowed again.
“Begging your pardon, Lady Ulva, but they forfeited their lands during the Goblin King’s rampage. When they came back, they attempted to hang good men and women and claim all our work as their own.”
“And?”
Ulva Terland’s aura was a physical thing, like a wall, and it bore down on Marvus as he spoke. As implacable as a wall of marble to the face. He hesitated.
Aronia finished her husband’s sentence.
“…And we feel that we have a better claim to these lands than that lot, begging your pardon for our frank speech, Your Ladyship.”
She locked eyes with Ulva, and Mrsha felt her push the oncoming aura back. Marvus nudged his wife, but the two women didn’t say a word and locked gazes.
Dead gods, that looks highly uncomfortable. Is she always like this?
Mrsha asked Lord Xitegen, who was watching the showdown. He would know best, wouldn’t he? Xitegen replied softly.
“In truth? No. Only when she’s annoyed—she used to be a paranoid recluse afraid of her own shadow. This is the Ulva I heard stories of as a boy. She and Petria were the Twin Virtues. The Twin Terrors—before our time, Mrsha.”
Hmm. And does she actually make good on her threats?
“She threw me out of a carriage when I gave her backtalk.”
That didn’t sound good at all. Aronia was the one to back down and glance at Ulva’s feet, smiling and bowing again. Ulva waved them off. Beckoned, and the Golvas were next.
“It’s not how it used to be.”
Xitegen and Mrsha jumped. They turned, and an old man was eating egg salad. Or rather, a Golem with extraordinarily large breasts was serving it to him, and he just opened his mouth to eat. He had a permanent hunch, and he was definitely a Terland. Mrsha eyed the smiling half-Elf Golem, the [Lord], and glanced around for a drink.
She had a feeling she was going to need one the more she met the Terlands. She half-wished she’d skipped the cookout, but she owed it to Ilvriss to show up and be at least moral support. He’d had a hard time.
Plus, the food was amazing.
Xitegen was on his fifth rasher of bacon as he introduced the old man.
“Lord of Hearts Nouzcrat, meet Mrsha du Marquin. She’s mute and the [Princess]’ daughter, so don’t be rude.”
“A Gnoll child. What are [Princesses] getting up to these days? They weren’t [Harlots] in my time.”
The old [Lord] had about as much charisma as Ulva. The Gnoll girl offered him a paw, which he gingerly shook after a second, then held up a card.
Hello, Lord Nouzcrat. I’m adopted, so if you can read, I do hope you recant your statement. As for claims about my mother’s proclivities in the bedroom, Lyonette is not the one who sucks on Golem breasts.
Xitegen choked on his next bite of meat, and his Golems had to give him the Heimlich to save his life. The [Lord] eyed the note.
“…She reminds me of Reinharts. I saw one loitering around. And an El. We just need a Veltras and Wellfar and we’ll have all the representatives here. What are the other two Five Families doing?”
“Lady Desinee’s apparently just selling new merchandise, and Lady Damia? No clue. She’s caused trouble for me. I warned you to be polite, Great Uncle Nouzcrat.”
“Hmpf. How old are you, child?”
Nine? Who can say how old one is, Lord Nouzcrat. Time becomes meaningless, one finds.
The grumpy old guy did laugh at that.
“Hah! A Gnoll with the eloquence of a [Sophist]. That is funny enough to warrant this trip. How did you meet this one?”
“The inn, Great Uncle. It’s always the inn. Why are you eating that dreadful egg salad?”
“It’s excellent, actually.”
“Really? Seconda, secure me and Mrsha a portion—”
Nouzcrat was one of a number of Terlands mingling around, most of whom seemed snooty, aloof, and hung out with their own Golems. Even talking to the Golems, actually. It made it really hard to socialize, so Mrsha realized the Drakes and Gnolls who were trying their best were having trouble.
Mind you, the Silverfangs were a good addition to the gathering. Everyone wanted to talk to the Gnolls, if only to mention how racist they weren’t, and the Silverfangs were actually getting along with the [Ranchers]. Some were playing the horseshoe game, and Nanette apparently liked Burlise, one of the Lischelle daughters, and had already formed a huge social circle.
Including, Mrsha had to note, a certain young [Lord] who was uncomfortable, but Nanette kept dragging him into the conversation. Nouzcrat nearly spat out his next bite of egg salad.
“Aha! I knew it! There’s the Veltras! Where’s the Wellfar?”
He pointed accusatorily at Hethon Veltras, and Xitegen scratched his chin.
“Good point. They keep missing all the fun on their damn ships. But that young fellow visits The Wandering Inn often. He’s not on official business, Nouzcrat.”
“He looks old enough for it. In my day, you could speak with the authority of the Five Families as long as you could talk. We’d paddle your rear end for doing it without a damn good reason…your Great Aunt’s just reminding everyone how it works.”
“By making everyone hate us, Great Uncle? I have to live around here, you know. And having experienced Lischelle-quality beef, I don’t want to go back! It’s all very well for you lot when you go back north, but consider my position!”
Xitegen was remonstrating with Nouzcrat, and the old man frowned as he was served a piece of steak, tenderized by another Golem.
“This isn’t bad. What’s that disgusting stuff over there?”
“…Silkap? Gnollish. It’s quite tasty on crackers.”
“Ugh, foreign food. I’ll try it. Every now and then, I find something I like at these get-togethers. We stopped having them after the Goblin King died. And never with Drakes—Ulva’s just doing what she always did with Petria. One plays hard, the other soft. Ulva sweeps in with stomping Golems, then Petria offers the softer side of House Terland.”
Like Golem breasts.
“Exact—ahem.”
Nouzcrat and Xitegen coughed. The [Lord] peered at Mrsha.
“Shouldn’t children go and make mischief somewhere else? Like that boy there.”
He pointed at Sammial Veltras, who was going around and staring up at Golems and demanding to know what they did—and to show him. Please. Mrsha held up a card.
Shouldn’t old perverts go harassing Golems somewhere we can’t see them?
“Enough about my Golems!”
Nouzcrat purpled, and Mrsha, undaunted, held up another card.
I’m just giving you the same attitude your family’s giving me. I shall condescend to politeness when you do, Lord Nouzcrat. Did anyone mention to Ulva Terland that her sister’s dead so she’s just a jerk?
The [Lord] opened his mouth furiously, then hesitated. He and Xitegen eyed each other as they watched Ulva holding court. After a moment, Nouzcrat turned.
“Soffie. Get me Madrinal.”
Another Golem strode off and boobily breasted towards another [Lord]. Mrsha simply eyed the old man. He was no doubt a [Lord]; he had an aura, if not the strongest one, and he seemed intelligent enough, despite his proclivities in his Golems.
But he had been utterly absent from her understanding of Izril until now. Terlands, who lived in the north and did not touch the Izril that Mrsha understood.
If you’ve come here to evict Wall Lord Ilvriss, may I ask why Ulva’s even bothering to show up, Lord Nouzcrat? It might be easier on us all if she stopped pretending and just had the Golems kill us. Don’t forget the women and children.
The old man hesitated as Madrinal and several other of the senior members of House Terland walked over. Alorelle stared at the girl writing that in the air, but the [Lord] replied, as if forgetting he spoke to a child.
“We are not monsters.”
“Ha!”
Mrsha and Xitegen laughed at that, and the old [Lord] eyed them.
“We are not. And there are complications around any…hostilities. We have come to judge. But we are House Terland. Should we be impressed by decent food or a few [Ranchers] and a tiny expedition led by a Drake? We’ve counted, and he has only a thousand [Soldiers] at most, and plenty of [Miners].”
He did not come for war.
“Then he was foolish. We wait for something to impress us that this is worth allowing.”
The [Lord] looked down his nose at Mrsha. She wrote, unfazed by his gaze or aura.
You’ve got a hanging booger there, my friend. If you want to be awed, you missed the Archmage of Izril just now. Not our fault you showed up late.
“Hah! We’ve seen Archmages come and go. Without the class, why do they matter? Wait, why are we talking to some bratty child!”
Lady Alorelle broke in, and Lord Xitegen watched, sipping from a cup. He was familiar enough with Mrsha, and he wasn’t going to jump in this one and catch whatever she had in her back pocket.
 
——
 
Lady Damia Reinhart was aware…the cookout wasn’t going great. On the other hand, she could hear whispers.
“—think she’s going to insist we let a [Lord] take over our lands?”
“If she wants to do that, she’s got a hell of a fight on her hands. We ain’t letting it happen.”
Rabbo Golva was hissing with some of the other [Cattle Barons]. Marvus was worried as he glanced over his shoulder.
“She’s got those Golems, and I don’t think you can shoot them, Rabbo—”
“Golems nothing. Lasso one up and drag it into a hole and it don’t matter how big it is—it can’t beat twenty men on it with ropes. ‘Sides, it’s a big place. She won’t stick around.”
“We came here for the Drake, though. How many did he get from you, Marvus? If he’s going to raid us—”
“We can’t let him get away with it, I know. But between that damn half-Elf and the Terlands, it’s just not the right moment to push him hard. Listen, let’s figure out what the Terlands are doing. They’re complicating things…”
That was the benefit, Damia realized, to having House Terland show up. They were a problem to the [Ranchers] and took focus away from Ilvriss. Though arguably that wasn’t good because Ilvriss had two enemies, now.
Damia didn’t know what to do, but she was trying her best. The problem was, she was back in noble territory, and while she’d levelled up helping the inn…
“Hello, Lord Moltin, I’m Lady Damia Reinhart.”
“Ah, Lady Damia, greetings.”
The surprised Lord of Stone shook her hand and awkwardly made small-talk with Damia. She tried to talk up Ilvriss and the Drakes, but before she could get to that, the recently-ennobled man coughed.
“[Information Search: Damia Reinhart]. Er, and how is Lady Cecille doing? Well, I hope? Glad to have not seen—I mean, wonderful whenever we meet. And your fiancé, I mean, boyfriend, I mean br—Wernel?”
He stared in horror at something he’d just read. Damia sighed.
It transpired that when you were a minor [Lady], the one interesting fact about you was what everyone remembered. She spoke, hurriedly, as Lord Moltin wiped his hand on his jacket.
“Wernel and I aren’t seeing each other, Lord Moltin. That’s a very regrettable, er, fact that you—I’m currently working for Wall Lord Ilvriss! May I talk about his work here and why I hope House Terland will come to a peaceful resolution?”
“I, er, yes—”
Damia tried to mention cooperation between Drakes and Gnolls, point out the Silverfangs, Lyonette—but she rather feared Moltin was so focused on the factoid he’d reminded himself about that he missed the rest.
“Damnit! We have to sway them, Binevy! Maybe I’ll try Lady Ulva next.”
“I wouldn’t, Lady Damia. She’ll chew you up and spit you out.”
Binevy whispered, clearly aware of Ulva’s reputation. So was Damia, but she was groaning.
“We have to do something! All the old Terlands hate the Drakes, and I can’t sway them—”
“And why are we so set on allowing him to dig in the north? Not that I hold Ilvriss any particular bad will. But I rather think after the mess he got me into, any goodwill from the Winter Solstice has worn off.”
Damia jumped and turned. Desinee El was standing in the gathering, seeming almost as lost as Damia, sipping from a drink. She grimaced.
“Hello, Lady Damia.”
“Lady Desinee, er, hello. I thought you were lost after the cattle raid incident?”
One glare said Desinee was not happy about that, but as the lone member of her house, she and Damia were actually somewhat friendly. Especially because one look meant both recognized they were swept up in the inn’s chaos. Although Damia seemed much happier than Desinee about that.
“Let’s just say that fate has aligned such that I’m an observer—but little more for the House of El. We are not hostile towards the Wall Lord, but the interest of Walled Cities in our lands? How are you fine with it?”
“I’m a Reinhart, Desinee. Wall Lord Ilvriss has provided me with opportunities to level and earn gold, and he has not come in with wrath or violence. What else should I be wary of?”
Desinee pursed her lips thoughtfully.
“True, one could argue he’s a friendly Drake, the kind that Magnolia wanted to make peace with. Even so, it doesn’t strike you as traitorous to even envision allowing him in the north?”
“Traitorous to whom, Desinee? The last Drake we allowed north was Zel Shivertail, the Drakes’ hero who died for us. Do we not owe them a debt? Or do the Five Families forget the one war hero among Drakes even we acknowledged?”
That brought the [Artificer Lady] up short. Desinee regarded Damia, then tossed her head slightly and adjusted a hat keeping the sun from beating down on her.
“Ugh, not bad. I forgot the old Reinhart tongue was clever. Try that on the Terlands. Though they’re stubborn as Golems. And why should I help?”
Damia pressed two fingers to the side of her head, and Desinee eyed her again, but then Damia’s face lit up.
“Well, Lady Desinee, because Salazsar will simply have to sell the House of El gems at a discount. If not the whole city, House Gemscale sort of has gems in the name. Imagine a trade deal with them alone?”
Desinee’s mouth opened, and her eyes flickered. Then she produced a mini-abacus.
“That would be unthinkable, normally. We’d be inspecting each gem for cracks or deliberate—we have to buy Salazsarian gems, of course, but we go through multiple channels. There are damn [Reseller Merchants] whose entire job it is to facilitate north-south trade clandestinely for appearance’s sake.”
The younger [Lady] peered over Desinee’s shoulder, speaking sweetly like an evil [Vizir] whispering in Desinee’s ear.
“What’s the markup on that? 15%? You know those [Merchants] are using Skills. Imagine a 15% reduction on gemstone costs, Desinee. And what if he could get some Pallassian steel via his company too?”
“Eugh, what are you? Some kind of [Temptress]? Excuse me, I need to make a call. Desinee to Deilan. Hello?”
Desinee shooed Damia off, but the [Lady] followed, grinning. She heard Desinee speaking rapidly to a man who sounded disinterested at first, then very interested.
“…again, Desinee? Trade deals? That’s unconscionable. The family would riot.”
“How much of the family, Deilan? And how much if we just skipped the entire reseller’s fees? And we could get Prime Gems from House Gemscale—do they sell them?”
“They do! In fact, due to a Skill, they mine gemstones even in the north at a low rate, without searching for them! Hello, Lord Deilan. Damia Reinhart here, very eligible, unmarried [Lady] of House Reinhart. And have I mentioned that The Wandering Inn controls door travel? If you wanted anything shipped from Pallass at speed, you might arrange transit without fees.”
“Who’s that? Er, greetings—”
Desinee was shoving Damia, but gave up as Deilan began to ask more questions. And like that, Damia put another of the Five Families on Salazsar’s side.
Soft power. Or rather, she reflected, the power of one of the richest cities in the world. Inaccessible, of course, to their enemies.
Unless it was through a Drake you could trust. A Drake who could be less of a Drake at times. She saw Ilvriss walking around with briefcases in hand, and that was why she liked him too. She just didn’t know if Lyonette was seeing him or…? Maybe that would be a good way to get the [Princess]’ attention.
Either way, Damia really hoped this got her an invitation to The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was aware Ulva Terland was not relenting in her position. And he intended to, uh—wait for Nerul to get here. The [Diplomat] was racing towards Pallass with ‘a trump card’, so Ilvriss was waiting for that.
If not, he’d do his best. But he couldn’t hover around Ulva nonstop—not that she was letting him. Her Golems literally kept him at sword length, and until she wanted to talk to him, he did what he could.
Namely, going to the other parties in the cookout and making nice. He’d tried last time, socializing, not saying anything biting—but Ilvriss had realized that was a milquetoast offensive.
It didn’t work. It had just led to Marvus punching him in the face over the last few weeks. That wasn’t to say that Ilvriss should have gone in like Zail would. You see, it was a false binary, the position of being either offensive or not.
Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. A somewhat stuffy and, he had to admit, corporate class at times. No great warrior. No superb diplomat. No charming, dancing [Princess].
He copped to that. So, Ilvriss went in as he was and hoped Lyonette would bail him out. He trusted his instinct that he was doing the right thing.
Because his instincts said…don’t do this.
So Ilvriss walked over to Marvus Lischelle as the man went for a drink and held out a claw.
“Marvus. May I have a word?”
“Ilvriss. You can get one for the food. I heard there was something peculiar with the cooks—but it’s damn good food. And those Silverfangs are pretty much country-bred as they come.”
It cost the man to admit that. Rather to Ilvriss’ amazement, it felt like throwing a decent cookout had actually won points with Marvus. Or maybe it was the cattle raid?
“I’m sorry about the two bulls the other day, Marvus. I’m glad you allowed me to compensate you for that.”
“Not sorry for stealin’ three hundred of my finest cattle?”
Marvus eyed him, and Ilvriss raised his own brows. Let a bit of the restrained spice flow from his tongue.
“Honestly? Not really as I think you’ve stolen over twice that much from me in a single raid. That’s tit for tat, and any of the rest of my guilt vanished after I recalled being punched in the gut by you last week.”
Against his will, the [Cattle Baron] laughed. Then he growled at Ilvriss.
“Damnit, that’s a [Rancher]’s comment! It doesn’t change anything. You’re digging up trouble or something that doesn’t belong to you, and I don’t know what it is—but it’s still in our land.”
He jerked a thumb at the other [Ranchers] to mean them all. Ilvriss sighed.
“I’m aware of that. Though I point out this was all Drake or Gnoll lands until you drove us off them. But let’s not play the ‘whose land was it’ game, because I’ll win, Marvus. It was brought to my attention the other day that all my work really only rewards the Gemscale Corporation. Me. I’m trying to do better by my people, and yes, it occurs to me that you have a stake in this land yourself. So…here.”
He offered the briefcase, and Marvus lifted his hands.
“We don’t need more gems. Thanks—the family’s still fightin’ over who gets to make them into jewelry—but more gifts at your cookout make no sense.”
“Absolutely not more gems, Marvus. We dig those up like copper, all the time. Call this dividends from the dig. Not much, but I will give you more if we can come to amenable terms.”
Okay, the man had to at least check the briefcase and see what it held. He flipped the latches up and saw…
A pickaxe. It lay in the briefcase, encased in soft velvet custom-fit for it. It was a pretty pickaxe, but—he almost laughed at Ilvriss.
“What? Is this a trophy?”
“Nope. A piece of what we found.”
“You went diggin’ and found a pickaxe? And this sweetens the pot? We don’t dig, Wall Lord.”
Marvus lifted the pickaxe and hesitated as he felt how light it was. Ilvriss smiled.
“If you don’t want it, you’re free to refuse, Marvus. Please refuse. Give it back to Welsca, and I’m sure we can find a use for it.”
The Drake [Adjutant] appeared and seemed ready to snatch the briefcase from Marvus. Her eyes alternated between coveting the pickaxe and glaring at Ilvriss. Marvus hesitated.
“So you dug this up…? Expensive, is it?”
He looked ready to make a joke. Ilvriss just smiled sweetly.
“You’re free to investigate. Though I’d keep an eye on it when you hand it to an [Enchanter]. I hate to generalize, but some get rather light-fingered…”
“It’s one pickaxe.”
“We didn’t find that many. You’ll also notice I’m not handing out pickaxes to anyone else. Welsca, the Golva gift.”
She handed him a briefcase with a lantern in it with an utterly pained expression as if he were stealing her first child. Ilvriss had to yank twice and walked past Marvus.
“Remember that, Marvus. Though I will lie to Rabbo Golva’s face as so—Rabbo! May I present you a rather odd gift?”
He walked off, and Marvus eyed the pickaxe, then glanced around. On a hunch, he put the pickaxe back in the case and walked it over to one of his eldest sons.
“Get this to our [Mage] on the ranch right now and tell me what it does or how good it is. Got it?”
He couldn’t believe the Wall Lord would just give away…and now Marvus wanted to know what the hell the man was digging up. He cast around for Aronia, but hesitated when he saw his wife.
She was standing with Colfa, and the two sisters were alone, utterly polite, all smiles, as they chatted near the cookout. Marvus began to walk over…then decided he could socialize for a few more minutes.
 
——
 
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle was hoping they didn’t slap each other at this cookout, but she was ready. However, Aronia knew it wasn’t her cookout, and Colfa hadn’t insulted her. She was stressed; Colfa could relate.
“Having fun with the Five Families?”
“Stop gloating. She could ruin us. Do you hate the family that much?”
That was Aronia for you. Colfa jerked her head back and hissed.
“You’re the one who practically disavowed me! Relax, Ulva Terland’s no fool. She knows she can’t run you all out. She’s after Ilvriss. We’re the ones in danger.”
“You just had to tie yourself to a Wall Lord. Where’s Himilt? Is your marriage in danger? Is that why you’re always here?”
“If you ever visited Liscor, you’d know he’s just dealing with the farm. Which he has to do single-handedly now everyone’s gone. He’s been preparing for the end of the rains. Training up new farmers. We have a bunch of amateurs, but we’re hoping they stay on—and Himilt loves fishing, it turns out. He’s been relaxing. He doesn’t want to be part of this, and that’s fair.”
What Colfa didn’t say was that Himilt was mostly training Vampires to learn to farm and forging cover identities—and, she suspected, finding other groups and leading them to safety. But he’d forbidden her from coming along. That hurt her, but she had to admit not even Fierre could keep up with Himilt—yet.
He did love fishing, though, and Aronia’s hostility faded.
“Empty?”
“Rivel’s run off after getting himself in trouble. He’s with a good sort, but he made a mess. Fierre’s found love and work, and Bamer passed away.”
“I’m…sorry to hear that. I should visit. It’s not far, but it feels like it. Is that door really able to take you back and forth? If you need hands, you should have asked.”
“I don’t want to be in your debt.”
Aronia hesitated, then shook her head.
“I’ll send fifteen of the lads to help you plant. Don’t call it a debt.”
“No need, we’re fine. It’s just empty these days.”
“No desire to have more children?”
Colfa thought of the long sickness, of children who’d never made it to adulthood, of learning the truth of her body—she might be healing, or maybe she’d continue being sick. Only Fierre was surely cured. She drank wine and murmured softly.
“No. I’m fine, Aronia. Lyonette’s a good friend, and I’m having fun. I went on the cattle raid. That felt like old times.”
“You just had to hit our best ranch.”
“Well, that’s the only thing that would work.”
Colfa eyed Aronia, and the two bristled…then relaxed. Aronia folded her arms and turned to stare across the horizon.
“You never told me you’d lost children. That stung worst of all, you know. I’m sorry. Was it sickness or—?”
When she turned her head, Colfa flinched. Then her eyes flashed with fury, but Aronia wasn’t wielding the knowledge as a weapon. She just seemed heartbroken. So Colfa swallowed.
“How did you know…? Who told you? Himilt?”
He’d never been here, to her knowledge. Had he written to Aronia behind her back? The Human woman just smiled, bleak.
“It was years ago, Colfa. Sometimes, I’d check on you, just by way of gossip or whatnot. No one really knew your family, so I put out a request. Bought information. There was an informant or some such in Reizmelt. They were very cautious about what they gave me. I think they looked up who I was, but then—they wrote it down. More than I’d known.”
Colfa’s eyes closed.
“Fierre. That little—she must have been just starting out. She made so many mistakes.”
“Aye. Telling me all that was wrong of her, but—daughters. I’ve buried two children. One stillborn. The other fell off a horse.”
“I’m so sorry.”
Was she supposed to reach out here? Should they hug, embrace? The urge came and went, and neither woman moved. Not here, with the cookout going. Later, perhaps, they’d find a drink. But Aronia saw Colfa glance downwards.
“It was selfish of us. Selfish to want children knowing we were…sick. Now, they’re gone, both of them. The house is empty, but perhaps it’s as well; it’s too dangerous at home.”
“My home suffers no bandits nor anyone else.”
Aronia glanced at Colfa’s too-white skin, the pointed teeth she’d never had, her red eyes. Colfa just blinked once, then turned away.
“It’s not strong enough for everything, Aronia. I like where I live.”
“City woman.”
The insult was mild. Colfa just smiled and nodded, and Aronia’s chest eased. But that left an issue just as large between them, so she brought it up as she jerked her thumb towards the [Ranchers]. Braced herself again. Aronia scowled.
“You’re bringing Marvus around. That fool can be swayed by a few gifts and a decent cookout. I know better. I thought you did, Colfa.”
“Ilvriss is no monster, Aronia. Sometimes, we’re told things about other people, and they’re just plain wrong. Drakes are good and bad, and he’s one of the best.”
“…Is he? Then if I ask you something, on your children’s lives, will you tell me the truth, Colfa? I’m asking you on family, for the sake of us growing up as sisters. Lie to me and you’re dead.”
Aronia didn’t turn, but Colfa felt her skin crawl. That…she put her cup down on a table.
“What’s gotten into you? You’ve only asked me like that once before.”
About whether I was serious about Himilt. Aronia just stood there, not letting Colfa see her face.
“There’s a half-Elf causing trouble around our lands, Colfa. Around all our lands. Did the Wall Lord send him?”
“A half-Elf? What does he look like? What does he do?”
Instantly, Colfa thought of a certain monster that Lyonette had been warned about. Aronia’s voice was hard.
“Answer the question. Did the Drake send him?”
“No. No, I swear on my children, Aronia. If that monster’s the one I’m thinking of, he’s hit all of Izril this last winter. I’ve heard from [Farmers] in Rheirgest, near Celum, and farther north than Reizmelt. He’s burned fields and plagued lands. He nearly attacked House Byres before someone ran him off.”
At last, Aronia turned, and she seemed relieved, if alarmed.
“Are you sure?”
“His name is Tolveilouka. Ring a bell?”
From the way Aronia’s face stiffened, it did. Colfa lowered her voice.
“I was told he did the same in Drake lands. He’s a true monster, Aronia. I saw him pushed—just once—and I think I’d rather see an Adult Creler than that. Don’t tangle with him.”
“It’s not us tangling with him, it’s him laying waste to entire herds!”
“What’s he done?”
The two began whispering, and Colfa grew more alarmed as she realized that the plague of Tolveilouka had come to her former home. She was searching around for Lyonette—but the [Princess] was still occupied with no less than Lady Ulva.
And worse—
Her mother.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin was negotiating with Ulva Terland, ruler to ruler. She did this as she prepared a speech for a parade in Calanfer.
With her daughters Shardele, Ellet, and Menisi, though the last of whom was not welcome. Things were changing in Calanfer, but she stood as makeup was applied to her, speaking briskly. Ulva knew what lay behind the Queen of Diplomacy’s charming mask.
“If my daughter has offended House Terland, we shall make amends.”
“And do you speak for this Drake, Queen Marquin?”
Ulva was less blunt, but still coming at the matter like a hammer to a nail. However, the Queen of Calanfer was better than her daughter—and quite enjoying herself.
Mostly because a simmering Lyonette was quite aware of who was talking to whom and hiss-shrieking at Ushar to get her mother out of her way! However, Ielane just chuckled.
“We aren’t opposed to this version of Salazsar. You might look twice, Terland. And we shall incentivize any willingness to diplomacy on your part, despite the inconvenience.”
“With little contracts and promises you cannot afford in your war?”
Ulva snorted, and Queen Ielane was all smiles.
“Your family is not doing well in the New Lands, Lady Terland. Golems run out of mana too quickly, but there is value there, so we believe. It would behoove Terandrians and former-Terandrians to stand together, would it not?”
“I will consider the offer, but if that is the best you have…”
Ulva was rolling her eyes when Ielane spoke.
“For all her faults and, perhaps, impatience to be free of me, my daughter is capable enough. Consider allowing her a moment to speak, Ulva Terland.”
“A minute of Calanfer in your ear is as bad as a second on Kaaz’s dueling courts.”
“If Terland says so with the wisdom of Golems, what is Calanfer to argue? Trade between continents is restarting, but no trade route remains intact. Calanfer’s ports may well replace Pheislant if currents so allow. Or Nadel. Would a trade treaty between our ports suit?”
It would suit, which made Ulva grit her teeth because why was everyone pushing for this damn Drake? She muttered a farewell and hung up the scrying orb.
“Let the [Princess] wait. Let’s see if she has a temper.”
She spoke to Timekeeper, and Ulva finally took a piece of meat and chewed it—it had been thoroughly tested by Golems for poison. She chewed, swallowed—
It was annoyingly tasty. She made the Golems get her more and thought of Petria.
Petria would be circulating the tables, apologizing for her dour sister, gobbling down food, and making merry. Petria, dead.
Waking up from her grief did not diminish it, but made it sharp once more. Ulva Terland stood, alone, with nothing but the hammer of Terland’s might, none of the ability to rest and love what it was.
Goblins had taken that from her. Now, she was one half of a two-woman act. And so…she closed her eyes.
Almost time. She would give the Drake his chance. She’d seen him giving out…objects.
“Timekeeper, the quality of those artifacts?”
“Beyond modern-day, Lady Ulva.”
“So he’s giving away artifacts from the City of Purity. That’s not a Drake quality. He still stands to take the lion’s share.”
But he was giving them away to the [Ranchers]. Ulva glared; she could see one final suitcase likely meant for her. There were a lot of reasons to let him live. Monetary ones. She’d spotted El switching sides, the bastards. As for Reinharts, they were all individualists.
“Lady, ah, Ulva. May I speak to you as one member of the Five Families to an—”
And here came the boy. Hethon Veltras, and Sammial Veltras for backup. Ulva’s look fixed him in place.
“You may not, Lord Hethon Veltras. Lord Sammial Veltras, present yourself.”
Children. She recalled them from First Landing, but without Tyrion…no, they weren’t alone. Ullim and Jericha appeared with House Veltras’ guards, and Ulva nodded once at them. Protectors. Yet the boys approached of their own volition.
More courageous than before. At least, the younger one looked less like a brat. She studied them, nodded.
“Good. Poison has not done damage to either of you, nor kidnapping. Your father is a fool, struck by life and, apparently, time. You are young, and that is forgivable. However, you will not speak to me with the name of Veltras.”
“But we—may we speak to you as [Lords] of House Veltras, then, Lady Ulva?”
Sammial seemed ready to talk, but Hethon put an arm out and tried again. Ulva Terland eyed him.
“That is decent. I grant you the same accord I grant Lady Damia Reinhart and Lady Desinee El, then.”
“Thank you, Lady Ulva.”
“You are welcome, boy. Timekeeper, take these nuisances aside.”
She hid a smile as the Golem instantly moved to shuffle them off. Hethon got what was meant and deflated, but Sammial…she’d wondered if the boy had the old Veltras temper, and sure enough, it exploded before Ullim could grab him.
“Stop being so mean to Lyonette and that Wall Lord guy! Everyone’s telling you not to do something stupid, stupid! Can’t you hear?”
Everyone in earshot froze as Ulva’s head turned. She peered down at the boy, who took two steps behind Ullim.
“I’m a kid. You can’t get mad at me for being a kid.”
He announced, and she snorted.
“I can have you held upside down and beaten like a sack of grain, boy. That temper will earn you trouble if you don’t control it. You remind me of your mother, Salva.”
The two boys froze at the name of the late [Lady] of House Veltras. Sammial hesitated.
“…And?”
“I didn’t care for her. Watch your tongue. I have heard you, Veltras. Begone.”
For some reason, that provoked silence, and Sammial was obediently shepherded off. Ulva sat, scowling around.
Where was the Wall Lord and [Princess]? She’d pushed them, and she’d heard the [Diplomat]—were they that afraid of her? She was about to instigate the confrontation when the thing she didn’t expect hit her. She’d been warned.
But you had to admit, no one expected the little Gnoll girl to hit you that hard.
 
——
 
The first clue that Ulva had was when she saw Nouzcrat. The old man was being carried by the half-Elf Golem he loved so much. Unable to stand.
Or engaging in some kind of nuzzling that she was not going to allow in sight of the non-Terlands. She was about to snap at him to get down when she saw the Golem put him down on some chairs and another produce a handkerchief. He was…crying.
Old men cried all the time. She was searching for the reason when another [Lord] stepped away. He was shaking his head.
Madrinal, now, he was no coward. No great, shining leader, but she could trust him to do something hard and see it done, even if it wasn’t perfect. He did not weep, but he appeared rattled.
Then she traced the trajectory of his footsteps and saw the commotion. There…was one of the two people that Ulva had truly come for.
One was that Drake who’d worn Petria’s face, but that was a separate matter to the Wall Lord. Private.
Yet Petria’s ghost had claimed that if there was a debt owed, it was to this girl. In truth, Ulva had been disappointed to see the girl wandering around with nothing more than a kilt and bowtie. But she’d taken her eyes off Mrsha, and like a good sucker punch, the Gnoll had waited until everyone wasn’t paying attention.
She’d hit Nouzcrat with everything she had. And Madrinal. Now she was amidst the Terlands, swinging. Laying them out.
Mostly metaphorically. However, Ulva saw one of the younger Terlands actually sag, as if someone had kicked them. And Lady Damia was amidst them, dragging over the only Terlands who’d listen to her.
The young ones. Younger than Xitegen, young adults, teenagers excited for the trip south. They were the ones fascinated by the Gnolls and Drakes. Agog with Zelkyr’s Golems. Ulva paid as much attention to them as the buzzing of flies. None of them but Xitegen had seen war or had levels.
But they all saw Mrsha, and unlike the older Terlands, who went spinning away, downed in a punch, they seemed drawn to her like fireflies.
What was it? Ulva craned her neck, then strode forwards, the Golems clearing a path. Now Mrsha was throwing paws.
She caught everyone. [Ranchers]. Rabbo Golva backed away and fell over a table as if he’d seen a ghost. Face white.
She was even attacking her own side, if by accident. More than one Gnoll and Drake were backing away from her. Lady Desinee caught a hit and just fell forwards. Captain Todi, cursing, had to grab her. He was one of the only people immune to what Mrsha was throwing down, like the rest of the inn’s staff.
Ulva Terland passed by Elia Arcsinger and stopped.
“Elia. Why are you working here?”
“Lady Ulva. I’m acting as a guard for The Wandering Inn and Princess Lyonette.”
“…For her? Why? If you need gold or you have debts, I’ll settle them.”
For the woman who’d killed the Goblin King, Ulva could do that, even if Elia was no hero of ages. But the half-Elf just bowed.
“I’m on duty, and I should not distract you, Lady Ulva. I am happy in my post. I am levelling.”
“Hmph. Golems hear you, then.”
Ulva Terland passed by the one person in this gathering she had time for, and then she saw what Mrsha was holding. The Gnoll child wasn’t really punching people.
It just felt like it. She simply stood there.
[Survivor of Fates]. Doombearer. She could have spoken with the authority of The Wandering Inn or a Gnoll of the tribes. Or just a [Druid]’s wrath.
But she wasn’t any of those things. Not fully. She was just a child…so what she had, she borrowed. As she had been allowed. Because she’d been there.
The girl took something and held it up in her paws. From one of her many old classes.
[Emberbearer].
She held a pawful of pink flames, and when Ulva Terland gazed into it, she saw Petria’s face. The winds blew as the fire blazed, reflected in Mrsha’s eyes, and then Ulva felt the air catch her face and melt it away—
 
A younger [Lady] stood with her twin sister, lifting a thin, light wand. Not a mage’s wand, but something else. She stood at the head of a line of Golems. Across from her, she could see House Veltras’ horses pawing at the ground.
Afraid. But Linter was just waiting, lance couched, as Ulva snapped.
“Where are the Reinharts and Wellfars? Cowards!”
Not a single one of their war-carriages? Three of the Five Families would have to do. Let three be enough. For answer, there was a shout.
“Reinhart will be here, trust! Wellfar is sailing upon Zeres! Terland, El, and Veltras will hold them here!”
“Trust a Reinhart, Fulviolo?”
Ulva sneered back, but Petria shouted.
“If we have you two at our backs, then we’ll carve through the Drakes and send them fleeing across the Bloodfields! Make ready! Ulva, prepare to conduct the Golems! [Awaken, Hearts of Stone]!”
She lifted the twin of her sister’s wand in her hand and flicked it, and Ulva saw flames following the head of the House of El. Fulviolo and his sister, Maviola. A burning standard behind their armsmen. Her head rose, and she felt fear in her heart.
“That damn Drake is throwing his troops across the sky. Look.”
The sky was a single thunderhead. She could see Wall Lord Eschowar’s aura of lightning mixed with it. Bolts of lightning were stabbing down as the Drakes marched across the Bloodfields. 
“Hold him here. If we break, he’ll spill across our lands and tear everything to bits again.”
Petria was speaking, and Ulva called out.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]! Thunder for House Terland!”
Then they were advancing at a walk as House Veltras streamed past them. Ulva Terland saw a female [Lancer] riding next to Linter. His wife, Celica. How could Ulva have forgotten?
It was the last time the [Lord] and [Lady] of House Veltras would ride to war. Her final battle. And then there was thunder, and Ulva—
 
—blinked. Time snapped back upon her, and the fire of glory blazed in Mrsha’s paw. Echoing a lifetime of it.
“Ah. That’s not Maviola’s fire.”
That was all Ulva said. It struck everyone around the Gnoll. Lord Xitegen himself had stepped back, a brave man not willing to see his own family in those flames. Ulva Terland gestured, and Golems moved the audience away. Shielding them.
“Lady Ulva. Would you like us to nullify the Skill? It has an emotional component.”
“I am not to be beaten by a single flame, Timekeeper. Leave us.”
The Golem nodded. Ulva Terland walked forwards. The girl stood there.
Hello, Lady Ulva. You’re pretty rude. But where are my manners? I am Mrsha du Marquin of The Wandering Inn. I greet you in the same spirit you greet us.
Ulva almost smiled.
“You are too young and no true royal of Calanfer to speak thusly to me, girl. Calanfer dares not speak to me that loud.”
Then I am just Mrsha. I dare speak to you as myself. Or is House Terland too proud to listen to anyone who does not have a nation behind them?
“Clever. Did your mother teach you to say that?”
No, I came up with it myself. I enjoy speaking to haughty people. Hail, Terland.
Hail. Ulva stopped and glanced around. Then she sneered at Xitegen.
“‘Hail’, she says, as if she were a Dragon. I know I have been alive too long when a child has more eloquence than the heir to House Terland.”
“Dear Aunt, I am good at running, warfare, and eating. A fourth capability is beyond me.”
Xitegen drew himself up, and she snorted. Then Ulva came back at the child. She hadn’t meant to—Mrsha was a child. But she was starting to actually annoy Ulva.
“You are a brat holding someone else’s fire. A single Skill may move the hearts of my family, who let Golems shelter them from splinters and aught else. Not I. Is that all?”
Mrsha tilted her head. She wrote as she clenched her fist over the pink flame and it turned into wisps. That made Ulva’s heart sting, and she grew more annoyed for how cavalierly the girl treated the flame. Or so she assumed. Because Mrsha held out her paw. Like a [Stage Magician], she smiled.
Not just that, Lady Ulva. I can see you are made of sterner stuff than your family. My [Innkeeper] left me with many flames. That one is made of beautiful pain. This one? Just grief. Have you come to kill the people I love again?
Then the blue flame roared, and her paw quivered. For it was heavy—and it blazed between the two. Ulva threw up her hands with a cry.
Timekeeper smothered the flame with one hand, moving so fast that it bloomed for just a second, a true inferno, before he gently covered the girl’s paw. That was enough. Ulva shielded her eyes as Chema caught her, then snapped.
“Away! The day I need a Golem to fight my battles for me with a child is the day I die!”
“She is using flames of memory on you, Lady Terland.”
“And? I have seen those before, girl.”
Ulva poked a trembling finger at Mrsha. In response, the girl flicked her paw, and Ulva tensed. But the third flame that Mrsha produced was the hardest. It made Ulva squint and hold up her hand. It did not burn her, but it was so damn bright…
A grey flame. A grey scythe of hard fire etching itself upwards.
Mercy. And it was this flame the girl held between them.
I’m sure you have, Lady Terland. I’m just reminding you since you seem to have come from House Terland without any of this fire in your heart.
“How dare you.”
The girl stood there as the [Princess] and Wall Lord froze from where they were setting up. A little witch cheered her sister as everyone read. But all Mrsha wrote, with a smile, was this:
I’m just a girl. I’ll leave the big talk for you high-falutin’ adults. You shouldn’t need a child to help you. Just, sometimes, speak a bit of wisdom to fuddy old people. All I have is fire. A little flame. Does it mean nothing to you?
Ulva Terland’s throat rasped, and she was chuckling. Holding a hand over her rapidly-beating heart, and she saw the Lady of El riding north, a flaming flag in her hands. For the last time Ulva had ever seen her. That had been the truest, most beautiful goodbye.
“No. Lady Firestarter was my generation. My time. I remember her, and her glory was gold. She threw it across the sky and set the world aflame in victory. You met the final spark. She would have burned down the High Passes if she had gone there in her youth. Is that all you have to show me? A memory?”
The girl wrote with a glowing paw in the air.
Just a reminder where she left pieces of her fire, Lady Ulva. I am a Doombearer, a sign of the changing era of Gnolls. Will you finish the slaughter of Plain’s Eye?
“No. I have never considered Gnolls sworn enemies as Drakes are. Why even ask?”
Ulva knew she was playing into the Gnoll’s game, but she walked forwards, because she was enjoying this. Mrsha tilted her head, smiling slightly.
Because it was Wall Lord Ilvriss who took Fissival to battle at the Meeting of Tribes. It was he who went against the plans of the Walled Cities to weaken their enemies. Tarring him with the same brush as all Drakes seems foolish. I will not mention the Winter Solstice, or his other deeds, for I am sure you weighed all that carefully when you tried to kill him. But I will say Zel Shivertail’s name to you. Because I knew him, and he went to save Humans.
“He went for Reinhart. I am Terland.”
She felt like she was giving ground. To a child? Mrsha wrote.
And I am Mrsha. You all look pretty much the same to me from afar. Frankly, I don’t think Zel cared. Someone asked, and he went. House Terland’s memory is as old as Golems. Old feuds. Old hatred of Drakes, and I get that. They suck.
“Hey.”
Shut up, Dramm. I get it, Lady Ulva. But in the long memory of Terlands, has there never been a Drake worth talking to? Or did you think to kill him and never speak? Do you want to continue this state of affairs forever? Reinhart is trying to build a wall to break more down. Does Terland listen to no one but Terland?
“Enough.”
Ulva whispered, and the grey flame of mercy winked out. The tugging at her vanished, but the words did not, and she could remember more than a goldfish. Timekeeper lifted his head as the ticking of his heart extinguished the flames. Mrsha eyed him.
Whoa. Your Golems are cooler than Xitegen’s.
“I resent that.”
The [Lady] and girl ignored the others. Ulva spoke down to Mrsha.
“When one stops selecting Golems based on physical attractiveness, they find the true worth of Golems, girl. You might make for a decent Terland.”
I’m not up for adoption.
“I don’t believe I asked. Enough, though. You’ve made your point. Let adults speak indeed. One last thing.”
Ulva was motioning, turning away, when she swung her head back. Her voice rasped.
“I’m told…I owe you a favor. On behalf of someone else. But I have always paid my sister’s silly debts. If I told you to ask for a wish, would you use it for this?”
Mrsha went still, and no one understood what Ulva meant—but the girl did. And her eyes filled with guilt. She hesitated, then shook her head and wrote.
No. Not for this.
“No? You may not like what I do next. I am not convinced that Drake should stay, even if he might live.”
Ulva whispered, and her family stirred, listening. But the girl just wrote with a faint smile.
I don’t want to sway your decision, Ulva Terland. I’d rather save the favor, if I’m allowed one, for when it really matters. Ilvriss is a big boy. He’ll be fine. I’m just a ridiculously cute little girl. Besides…
Her face fell.
If there’s a favor to be owed, I think we’re quits at best. I didn’t save her. I could have.
That last blow made Ulva nearly fall as she stepped away, but she kept her composure. Turned, with a snort.
“The House of Terland does not need saving by children. Well then. Thank you, on her behalf.”
She walked away before the girl could say something else so casually painful. And Ulva wondered what made a girl write like a Djinni mixed with a little [Sage] and a child all in one.
“Timekeeper? Is she some kind of possessed child? Was she speaking to someone else? Soulsplit? Soulsundered? Something like that?”
She turned, and the Golem regarded Mrsha. It spoke slowly.
“I detect some-thing, Lady Terland. But it is just her, entirely. She is simply a child.”
“A child?”
“Some grow old fast-er than others, Lady Terland.”
“Like Xitegen. Witness her, Timekeeper.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
Ulva walked away, unwilling to engage a little girl a fraction of her age of all the beings here. But even despite the wounds she’d taken, she thought—
So it was definitely real. So that was her, and that land waits for me.
What a beautiful thing to know. What a relief.
Thank you.
Behind her, the girl with two souls comingled bowed with all the knowledge of what waited afterwards. Ulva thought she might still fear death, dying. But what came after might be beautiful. That knowledge could change her forever, but for this moment, she waited.
Then it was Lyonette and Ilvriss’ turn. And so the [Lady] observed as the two came to another traditional part of the cookout. She observed them with the memory of Terlands. The memory of Golems—
Who didn’t actually ever remember seeing what came next.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical felt bad. So bad he didn’t want to get out of bed and, in a sense, hadn’t.
He was curled up in his rooms as he sent his simulacrum into the world. By now, everyone knew he was ill, and yet he’d dragged himself out here.
He’d made up some kind of excuse and hired a Courier’s boat to insinuate there was a reason for him to be able to attend. Throw in a flying carpet and it was logical he’d have made it all the way here, right?
The [Princess] had not invited him, but he’d heard there was trouble with the Terlands. And Rhisveri was no idiot. Lyonette would mess it up without help, and knowing her, she’d invited the children into the range of a Golem.
He was stumbling around the party as a Golem followed him.
“A magical proxy has appeared. Significant magical grade, just below simulacrum-level. Alert. Alert.”
“What? Shut up. Your face is a simulacrum. I’m a projection, idiot. Who makes simulacrums?”
“A projection has appeared at significant range. Estimating magical levels—”
He slowed, dizzy, feverish, and found a little boy staring up at him. Rhisveri muttered.
“I’m here because of the children. Think of the children.”
He glanced around for the two brats—then Sammial Veltras spoke.
“You’re the guy who stripped Ryoka naked. That’s him, Ullim. And he tried to kill me.”
Everyone turned. Rhisveri froze as he focused on Sammial. And he recalled his sins. He managed to reply, after a moment, as horrified Terlands turned to find the kidnapper of the young Veltras [Lord]—who’d started a war—standing right there.
“I…that was probably a bluff. I don’t recall. Sometimes, you forget they matter. Children. Soldiers. Especially if they’re not yours. Some are always dying. Just not in my kingdom. That’s the goal. I’m sorry.”
Sammial Veltras studied Rhisveri and decided he didn’t need nightmares about the Duke anymore. The huge, floppy, purple talking penis-worm that sometimes appeared in his dreams—he had no idea what that was about since his memories had been altered. But this man wasn’t that scary, sweaty and weird as he was.
Sammy nodded.
“I forgive you. But he doesn’t.”
He pointed, and Rhisveri turned his head right in time for Ullim to punch him off his feet. He went over.
“Not ag—”
Then Ullim and Jericha were kicking him, and he was trying to crawl away. Right before a horrified Lord Nouzcrat called out.
“Stop, stop!”
His Golems separated the Duke of Ailendamus from the furious retainers of House Veltras. Jericha and Ullim hesitated, blocked by Golems. Nouzcrat pointed.
“Let the Golems do it.”
Rhisveri was getting up when one of the Golems punched him. He still got up after that, which was highly disconcerting to anyone who knew how hard he’d been hit. He walked over and leaned on a man, who patted him on the shoulder.
“‘Scuse me, sir. Are you some [Lord] who kidnapped a child and then threatened to kill him?”
“Only once.”
“Right, thank you.”
Nithle Calabie nodded, then threw a [Horsekick Punch] and sent Rhisveri twirling back into a kick from one of the Gnolls.
 
——
 
“What’s going on there? It had better not be a fight. Ser Dalimont, check it out.”
Lyonette was stressing as she and Ilvriss stretched and got ready for their moment. Ilvriss muttered.
“It’s probably just drunk hotheads. That kind of thing happens.”
She glowered as she glanced at the band, who’d been playing a mix of songs on request from people. Mostly classic Izrilian music for the nobility, but one of their number was none other than Songmistress Calla. She got around, and she’d volunteered to lead this band since she could conduct—she could [Summon: Sheet Music] for any song you requested.
Hearing a miniature orchestra riffing on one of the Singer of Terandria’s songs was odd, but Lyonette thought there was something to it. So did Songmistress Calla, but she was preparing for the big moment. Lyonette hissed at Ilvriss.
“We’ve only got a few moments left after this! The cake and then…if we don’t change Ulva’s mind, it’ll be terrible, Ilvriss! We need a united front!”
“I know, but we’re doing this dance because you insisted.”
He hissed back at her as they walked over to a cleared space, and a few heads turned. The Terlands did not look interested, the older ones, at least. And the younger ones were classically shy—
Yes, dancing was customary at formal events, but to the nobility, the cookout didn’t feel like the place for it. The [Ranchers], by contrast, were puzzled and worried. Because they expected noble dancing, and none of them knew any. Thusly, the only group that would think to dance would be the hosts. Lyonette blinked.
“Wh—but it’s your tail on the line!”
“Yes, but you were so insistent—I had to oblige you! Nevermind, what’s done is done. If I die, I’ll just blame you with my dying breath, deal?”
He adjusted his collar as she colored.
“You—you—how dare you humor me! We have priorities, Ilvriss; you could have said!”
Dame Ushar was calling people’s attention to the floor.
“Ladies, Gentlemen, Golems, we have an occasion to dance. I believe Her Highness and Wall Lord Ilvriss will demonstrate, in hopes of unity between north and south and all parties present?”
The Drake rolled his eyes as he stretched.
“Yes, how dare I support my friend? And she’ll definitely let the matter go if I beg my apologies, not hold it over my head forever. Because she’s such a reasonable person.”
“You—you—hold still when I’m stepping on your toes!”
They made for a cute couple. The two stood in front of the hidden cake, and it wasn’t only a certain half-Elf who thought that. But he was just waiting, and no one had spotted him yet.
All eyes were on Lyonette and Ilvriss. Aronia and Marvus had linked up, and they’d been whispering to each other, but they folded their arms.
No one was joining Lyonette or Ilvriss for the dancing. A few of the Gnolls and Drakes might have, but they were wary—they didn’t know the dances either.
If this was meant to be inclusive…Ulva Terland raised her brows and half-turned to Mrsha.
This is what you set up?
Mrsha just shrugged, cheeks full of food. She was done adulting. She and Xitegen were creating the forbidden meat bowl, which involved a piece of every kind of meat stuffed into a bowl and drizzled with three of your top sauces. You cut down one layer and took one huge bite with a fork.
…All of that was background. The crowd were all skeptics, but they were watching as a rather fast beat began to come from the band, who started sweating. A [Violinist] checked her musical sheet and then began to activate a speed skill.
Because they were playing that song. The song that made even Terland nobles blink. It was a country song, a commoner’s song—and it was fast, aggressive.
The song of broken heels and shattered egos.
The hardest dance known to Lischelles.
The one, the only—
The Highstepper.
“They can’t be serious.”
Nithle Calabie recognized the song, and he and his wife turned from kicking Duke Ow Stop That or whatever his name was. They left him behind as Rhisveri crawled away, and they’d heard of the Wall Lord and [Princess] failing the dance.
Anyone their age did without cheating. But they were doing it.
At—this fancy cookout? In front of the Terlands?
Yes. The familiar notes of the Highstepper filled the air, and it was no less fast than anyone remembered. If anything, Songmistress Calla was playing it faster than usual because she had just been told to play it. Not that anyone was crazy enough to dance to the rhythm.
The [Princess] was counting to the beat, bouncing on her toes in her…boots? Aronia choked.
“Those are the boots I gave her! They’ve painted them!”
“Steady. It don’t look that bad. There’s no way they’re trying—are they?”
Marvus was eyeing Ilvriss. You had to practice like a fiend, even with help! There was no way some Wall Lord would do that, would he? Marvus knew the dance because he’d practiced it all his life as a boy. But these two—
Lyonette turned and took Ilvriss’ hand as the crowd watched, murmuring. Skeptical Terlands, whispering [Ranchers], sons and daughters of Salazsar, Silverfangs—and one beat-up Wyrm.
He found an empty spot in the crowd and limped forwards. Then he saw her. Turning her head and smiling nervously up at the purple-scaled Drake who gave her a nod. Then…
“Oh.”
Rhisveri mumbled.
He saw them begin to dance.
 
——
 
The [Princess]’ and Wall Lord’s feet flashed down the aisle of watchers. They were high-stepping, high kicking, a dance that showed off their calves and ankles. Immodest! Unladylike!
To any Calanferian watching, it was unthinkable for a [Princess] to perform a dance like this. Xinthe was recording from under a table, jaw dropped.
And yet—the dance was impressive! Lyonette did a heel turn and skidded left. She and Ilvriss grabbed their belts, and their legs were kicking as they line-danced sideways. So fast that you could barely see their feet move. Then they linked arms and began to step—
“Dead gods! They’re doing it!”
The Lischelles were in uproar. The Terlands were just impressed. They had dancing Golems who couldn’t perform that well.
Seeing someone, anyone, performing an activity at a high level was inspiring. Eye-catching. But the [Princess] and Wall Lord were nobility, de facto; they didn’t have to work hard.
…But they were dancing. Ilvriss’ face was a study of concentration as he let go of Lyonette’s arm and moved into another rhythm of the dance, and his tail swayed along with his legs, so fast it barely touched the ground.
It was the [Princess] who wore a smile on her face and seemed to be laughing, even though a single sound never left her lips. She was breathless, moving from position to position.
They were—they were doing it. Aronia’s mouth was open, and Colfa was clapping to the beat, cheering.
“You can do it, Lyonette! Don’t mess up now!”
Sideways again, moving past the guests, and Marvus heard cheering. From Burlise! She and his family were cheering the Highstepper on! How not?
You cheered anyone who tried it, even if they messed up in three steps. For the daring. For the courage and fun of it. And you bought them a drink…
Just not the Wall Lord and [Princess]. But Marvus watched and saw, across from them, Ulva Terland eying the Highstepper. She was tapping her foot to the beat, amazingly on-rhythm. And he thought to himself—
They’re dancing our dance in front of Terlands and the other Five Families. It was intentional. No one was making the [Princess] and Wall Lord choose that dance. They could have done any Salazsarian or Calanferian dance. But they’d chosen the music that the [Ranchers] knew.
No matter how Marvus turned it around in his head, he couldn’t figure out an angle that didn’t make that somewhat respectful. Learning the Highstepper…
“Aronia?”
“Shush, Marvus.”
“I’m just sayin’, if he’s giving us something worth having—”
“Shush, they’re dancing. Don’t interrupt them now.”
His wife was just watching. No matter how fast the Highstepper went, at the end, when the young woman and Wall Lord turned and clasped hands to bow…they didn’t falter.
Start to finish. Marvus and Aronia began to clap. Then caught themselves, glanced at each other, and folded their hands.
“There’s no way someone can dance well enough to mend this kind of bridge. This isn’t a fairytale.”
“That’s right. And we’re not the villains of a storybook.”
She added, and Marvus nodded. But the cheering continued, and the two saw a breathless Lyonette and Ilvriss shaking hands.
“I’m going to give Burlise an earful after this. Look at her, fawning over a [Princess].”
“Right, because she shouldn’t do that.”
This time Aronia stepped on Marvus’ foot. He protested.
“She is a [Princess] when all’s said and done, Aronia. Admit it, if it weren’t for the fact that she’s against us, you’d be trying to get on her good side. Well, that and Colfa’s with her, and you two haven’t made up.”
“What? Who said that?”
Aronia spun and poked a finger up at him. Marvus raised his hands.
“Er…you did. Colfa’s on the outs.”
“She’s my sister. We might fight, but I’m not having you badmouth her, Marvus!”
He threw up his hands.
“Argh! You two made up and didn’t tell me? Don’t point that finger at me, woman. It’s not my fault for supporting you and not knowing when I need to switch my tune up!”
Aronia’s lips quirked because she had to admit he was right there. She sighed, and they turned to regard the couple—only to realize Lyonette was talking with Burlise and some of the other [Ranchers], breathless. The married couple sidled over and eavesdropped.
“Thank you, thank you, Burlise, isn’t it? I was terrified we’d mess it up. It was one of two dances we were practicing…I’m just embarrassed.”
“Embarrassed about what? That was amazing! Ma and Pa can’t do it better than that!”
The two older Lischelles’ glowers of wrath promised Burlise was going to find herself on some hard chore duty after this. Even if it was true, you didn’t admit it. However, Lyonette just hung her head. She stuck out one of her boots.
“I…used a trick. These boots. I made Aronia’s gift to me into an artifact with a Skill.”
“You did what?”
Aronia jumped into the conversation despite herself, and Lyonette had to explain how she’d made her boots to dance. But she was crestfallen, red-cheeked from her exertions as she nodded at Ilvriss.
“Ilvriss managed to do the dance all on his own! I needed help. There was a time I could’ve done the dance myself, but I can’t anymore. Realizing that was…hard.”
Despite herself, Aronia’s face softened, and she hesitated, then hugged Lyonette with an arm. The [Princess] blinked, but Aronia patted her on the arm.
“Miss Lyonette, everyone cheats at the Highstepper. Marvus? He makes the old Fleethoof Grill. That’s a Skill-food you eat, and it lets you dance right. Rabbo’s wife has dancing socks, don’t you, Aubrie? As for Rabbo, he just drinks—we all need help. I’m mightily impressed you picked it up so fast anyways!”
“Well, we practiced nonstop. It was a bit of an obsession. Even the Five-Step isn’t as bad on the shins! I must have kicked Ilvriss’ legs bloody.”
Lyonette’s confession made everyone smile and relate their own pains when learning the dance. No one liked a genius. And there were some who could pick up the Highstepper within a week or just a single try. Colfa was one of those geniuses, darn her.
But Aronia was calling for a seat.
“Your legs must be killing you. Have a seat. Marvus, you might need to start the Fleethoof Grill. Can’t have our guests thinking we can’t answer to that challenge!”
“Already on it, darling!”
He was indeed manning a grill and preparing the signature blend. A [Chef] with dark skin and an eyepatch was watching him covertly, despite her husband’s attempts to get her to leave.
“Dear, you promised—”
—Background noise. Lyonette was thanking Aronia as she lowered herself onto a stool stiffly. One of the Terland [Ladies] who’d come to ask about the song exclaimed when they saw Lyonette’s sweaty makeup reveal cracked skin.
“What’s that?”
“Argh, my condition—I can dance two more times, but my body still doth protest.”
“I never did ask about that. Is it a sickness?”
“No, just from my class. It’s complicated—”
“You wear it very well. I can’t even tell about the cracking, normally. What kind of makeup do you wear at your age, Lyonette? You look half your age!”
Eni Calabie commented jealously, and Lyonette hesitated.
“Makeup? Mostly, it’s just the cracks…half my age? I should hope not. I’m only nineteen.”
No one here had performed the Winebreath Blaster so far. The oft-overused power, rumored to be the final missing Dragonbreath—was not performed by Aronia now.
She just dropped her cup, and it splashed onto the ground.
“Say what? You—you’re nineteen?”
Burlise had spun around, having nearly crept out of the conversation with her mother and the adults present. Only—Lyonette brushed at her face.
“I don’t look that much older, do I?”
“N—but—your aura and the way you hold yourself! And you have children!”
Everyone whirled to look at Nanette and Mrsha and do some very worried math when Lyonette laughed.
“I didn’t birth them myself! I used to be far more spry, but I got this class just a bit ago…Nanette, do I look old?”
“Yup.”
The witch’s comment hit Lyonette and everyone older than her by proxy. Aronia was aghast. She’d thought Lyonette was at least in her thirties and using illusions or alchemy! The fact that a girl Burlise’s age was negotiating with the Wall Lord…
Then she leaned down.
“Wait, that Wall Lord’s not your age, is he?”
“Ilvriss? No, quite a bit older. Mid-forties? He holds it well, but—”
“My dear, he’s twice your age! You should pick someone else, let alone the fact that he’s a Drake—”
This time, it was Lyonette’s turn to avoid spitting her drink out.
“Ilvriss? We’re not together!”
“You’re not?”
“I’m just helping him out! We only dance together, and he’s a friend of Erin—let me clear this all up.”
Lyonette tried to, but no one was in a position to instantly believe her. The fact that she was nineteen sent Aronia off to have a small crisis. Colfa went over to pat her on the shoulder. Meanwhile, Ilvriss turned with an outraged expression on his face.
“Lyonette, I’m in my thirties, you—you—mathless Human!”
He roared. Lyonette was laughing until Burlise seized her hands.
“You’re my age! I’m actually three years older’n you! How’s that possible? Here I thought my parents were the ones who needed talking to you—”
She was agog. And Lyonette felt older than Burlise! But she grinned as she tapped her boots together.
“I’m just sorry we couldn’t talk, Burlise. This is an important matter—”
“Beating up Drakes and getting beat up? Bah. That’s cow shit on their faces! We’ll never let ‘em live it down, Mom nearly killing you with that slap and you being half her age! And all of them showing off with the Highstepper when that Wall Lord did it cold! He did, right?”
“Unassisted? Yes, and I used to be able to do it…but it’s a hard dance. I can see why everyone cheats. Ilvriss is just gifted.”
Lyonette was trying to downtalk herself, conscious that claiming she could do the Highstepper without magical help when ‘everyone cheated’ was a bad look. However, at her words, Burlise and the other young people gathered around her hesitated. Burlise turned, eyed her mother, then whispered.
“Well, that’s just what they say to make themselves feel better. No one their age can do it. Too heavy, too old, too outta shape. But you think everyone needs help t’do it?”
She stepped back challengingly, and Lyonette remembered a comment Burlise had made at the last cookout. She gave Burlise a sharp look.
“But why didn’t you do it last time…?”
One of the young Golva boys rolled his eyes.
“‘Cause they were busy humiliating you. They don’t let us show off because we can do it better’n they can. You want proof?”
He stuck out his chin, and Lyonette eyed him before standing.
“There’s no doing the Highstepper better. Is there?”
A grin spread over the younger [Ranchers]’ faces. Burlise strode over to the band and tapped Calla on the shoulder.
“Hey, Miss, give the Highstepper some juice and make it faster! You heard the [Princess]! Who’ll dance with me?”
One of the Golva boys she knew strode over, and she took his hand. Then more pairs emerged from the crowd. They lined up, and Lyonette blinked—then she was standing.
“Ilvriss! Ilvriss!”
“What? Oh no. No, Lyonette, we have to deal with Ulva Terland. We don’t have time for—think of my thighs. My thighs—”
He tried to get away, but the [Princess] snagged him. Ilvriss was the oldest dancer on the floor. The younger members of each [Rancher] clan filled the floor, not the heads. When the music picked up—even faster—
Well, half the couples made a mistake and went sprawling or tumbled down with screams or curses, to laughter and cheering.
But the rest kept on dancing around the fallen, and then everyone was clapping. Indeed, at the sight of the Highstepper, there were people asking for a slower version to practice.
The Silverfangs were taken with the dance, even if it looked silly to them. There were brave Drake volunteers, and even, to the surprise of all—Lady Ulva Terland especially—
Terlands.
 
——
 
The dancing of the Drake and [Princess] wasn’t lost on Ulva. Diplomatic and all that. What Calanfer was good at.
It won the [Ranchers]’ approval. Not hers.
So a Drake could dance. So what?
She was determined to be unimpressed and watched the pairs dancing, imagining Petria and her trying it. Ulva sourly ate more meat and then heard cheers, applause—gasps.
A Terland boy was urging a partner onto the dance floor. Not one she knew.
A child, which was to say, someone younger than Xitegen. She didn’t deal with Terland children. They were to be not seen and not heard, and especially not around her. If Petria had lived…
But this boy was familiar to her for two reasons. Mostly—she recognized his serving Golem, who was a dancing-capable model. Able to remove limbs, fashioned after the Dullahans.
Most Golems were made in Human images, but they had a variety of Golem species except for Drakes—given the animosity, Terlands didn’t want Drake Golems, and the ones they had possessed had been used as agents in Drake lands over the ages.
But this Dullahan Golem was a partner to the boy. Bedpartner? It was a dark thought, but that was her family. Ulva asked, and to her surprise, Timekeeper answered in the negative.
“She is Dancer Golem Hidre, Lady Ulva. Assigned to Lord Chovn after his injuries.”
“What—ah. Yes. I recall now.”
A rare accident in Terland lands. Who was that fool who’d been with the boy when he was barely six?
“Bein, yes. One of the branch families. Didn’t he land himself in trouble twice? He was there when this boy lost his arms.”
Freak accident involving one of the mechanical windmills that Golems operated. They’d been playing in the mill when the Golem had begun working, and Chovn had survived—but his limbs had been caught in the gears of the mill.
No potion but a lost miracle would have restored that. So, the boy, who was, what, seventeen? He had Golem arms.
Hidre, the Dancing Golem, had been assigned to him to teach him how to use his limbs. Learning to use a prosthesis was hard. However, it seemed Lord Chovn had recovered well—Ulva blinked as he took the Golem’s hand.
The Dullahan Golem was smiling at him as they joined a slower version of the Highstepper. And he couldn’t have known it, but after seeing it merely twice, the boy started doing the dance with other amateurs and barely missed a step.
He was halfway through it when he twisted the wrong way and went stumbling—his Golem caught him. He laughed, embarrassed, then started as people applauded and cheered.
“He dances well.”
“He is a Level 23 [Fleetfoot Dancer], Lady Ulva.”
Timekeeper could pierce most anti-appraisal spells with his capabilities. Ulva twisted.
“At his age? Then he’s wasted as a [Lord]. Why haven’t I heard of him being trained or sent to study more dances in Nadel?”
“I do not believe anyone has suggested it, Lady Terland.”
“Well…mark it for me to do.”
Even for her, she couldn’t ship the boy off with no regard for his parents or will. But Ulva was annoyed to realize no one, including her, had known he was a [Dancer]. Level 23. He was smiling and thanking his Golem. Her heart was beating, and she was smiling at him.
Slowly, Ulva drank from her cup.
“Timekeeper. That Dancing Golem isn’t equipped for intercourse, is she?”
“No, Lady Terland. She is not.”
“Hmpf. Is she actually smiling at him, there? Or is she just doing her job, heart beating or no?”
“I do not know, Lady Ter-land.”
She glanced at him, and for once, the Golem seemed to be attempting to stay neutral. Ulva’s comment was soft.
“Find me a record of all the times she’s been activated and taken out of storage and how many times she might have…no.”
She cut herself off. Turned away.
“No, Lady Terland?”
“No, Timekeeper. I don’t want to know or guess. If it is, it is. Her heart only beats around me, anyways. We have been fools throughout the ages long enough. Let’s not assume Golems are too.”
Petria would have chased down that thought all the way, but to what end? It just led to tragedy, either way. Time would make tragedy of the story, no matter how beautifully it were told. She knew that. It was Timekeeper’s response that drew Ulva up short.
“Lady Terland. You are correct our hearts only beat to give us wa-king thought by your will. And that we are beings of thought, not emotion. In-correct to assume we do not always see and remember.”
Oh yes, the damnation of Terlands. The reason why their Golems could never, should never be given free will. They remembered everything done to them and around them over these ages. What would they conclude, given the chance? Lady Ulva Terland gazed at the Golem who seemed to be encouraging her [Lord] to try again amongst the cheering.
“It’s a damned stupid story. Why fall in love with a mortal or master?”
“Why do some Golems dream, Lady Terland?”
She turned away, only for a second Terland to join the floor. This one a [Lady] in her thirties. She held out a hand to one of the Silverfang Gnolls, then brushed at her dress.
It was a rather revealing one. Showy in terms of skin. Ulva eyed her bronzed skin, a young woman still in the prime of life, and snorted. Then she saw the two begin to try the Terlands’ answer to the Highstepper.
The 5-Step of Terandrian fame. The Silverfang Gnoll must have been a good dancer—no, wait. According to Timekeeper, he was a [Lucky Miner]. So his mistakes became the right steps, and they were funny enough.
The [Princess] was trying to make Wall Lord Ilvriss join them, but the Drake had sat down and refused to get up, so some Duke attempted to join Lyonette—only for someone to trip him headfirst into a table. The [Princess] ended up dancing with one of her [Knights], and Ulva would have left it at that—except for the [Lady] whirling around to show her dress was ultra-revealing.
In that there was a hole in it, along one of her breasts. And it revealed something glowing. Ulva’s head snapped back around.
“Is that a Golem’s Heart?”
It was! It was beating in the center of the [Lady]’s chest, glowing fast as she danced the 5-Step near-flawlessly. Ulva spun, and Timekeeper spoke.
“Yes, Lady Ulva. That is La-dy Prithna Terland, a member of the branch family. Her serving Golem is there.”
Another shock when Ulva turned her head. She took one look at the Golem with a lifelike face on it and recoiled.
“That’s Drogin. Someone put his face on a Golem?”
“It was his will, Great Aunt. He was dying of magical malady, and he insisted they put his face on a Golem to watch his daughter. Heart failure in the family. You don’t recall?”
Maybe? Ulva remembered Drogin dying, but she snapped at Xitegen, who’d walked over.
“When did that happen?”
She gestured at the heart, and he shrugged.
“The heart? I think hers gave out five years ago. Likely, you didn’t see her because she spent three years having one created that could keep her alive.”
Ulva vaguely recalled being grumpy about the funds for that and hearing the story, but…she eyed the laughing [Lady] hugging the Gnoll as the dance ended.
“Another member of the family with promise, if she survived all that. What’s her level, Timekeeper?”
Then Ulva’s head was turning, seeing her family stepping onto the floor, haughty, but willing to try some of the dances, or just keen on reminding the others they could dance. Terlands dancing with Golems or, more scandalously, non-Golems.
In the center of it all, a [Princess] and that damned Drake. Timekeeper bent over as a drunk-looking man tried to pursue Lyonette.
“That is apparently the Duke of Ailendamus, who is using a magical projection spell to be here, Lady Ulva. He is of approximate danger as a Named-rank adventurer.”
“A high-level spellcaster? Just hit him if he causes trouble. I came here to see the south. I should have looked at my own family first.”
Wearily, Ulva Terland sat. Then she perched on her Dais of Health and beckoned.
“Very well. I can admit when I’m a fool myself, Xitegen.”
“Oh, goodie, Great Aunt. Can I throw you in front of a carriage?”
“Don’t be ridiculous. Send Chovn and Hidre before me.”
So she held court once more. The [Lady] of House Terland rose…and regarded her grey in a mirror. Her austere dress. Then she pulled the hairpin from her hair, and the Seal of House Terland glittered. She handed it to Xitegen and pulled her hair back.
“Hairpin, Xitegen.”
“Er, where…?”
“Dead gods, you truly haven’t ever found someone besides your damn Golems, have you? Change that, boy. Here!”
He stuck it awkwardly in her hair, and it became a ponytail. Ulva Terland touched her clothing and spoke.
“Awaken, hearts of Terlands.”
She drew something from a holster on her inner sleeve. Just a little wand made of mithril, and ran it down across her dress. Then—the grey layers seemed to flake away.
Like stone, revealing color beneath. Until her clothing took on the color of the deep ocean. Ulva whirled the wand over her head, and heads turned. She sighed as the familiar cloak of dark waters, filled with glowing lights, fell on her shoulders.
The Cloak of Submerged Lanterns was her personal attire, just like the dress. She could make most things ‘beat’ or reveal their true nature. Like clothing. If you took it out of the clothing, it turned grey and lifeless. Perfect for making a splash, disguising oneself, or just impressing someone who’d never seen the trick before.
Ulva Terland pointed the conductor’s wand and beckoned to the merry partygoers. She threw back the cloak, and it billowed over the Dress of Night Skies.
“I have made my decision. The Lischelle family shall approach House Terland. So shall each [Rancher] family’s heads. Kneel.”
Her Golems moved forwards until they flanked her—Chema, Timekeeper, Corde, the ancient might of House Terland—and Ulva Terland’s grey eyes broke into pieces and grew colorful. Even her eyes—
 
——
 
Nouzcrat had gone to wash his hands after getting sauce on them. He wasn’t one to dance, and he had missed the commotion. When he saw Ulva standing there, and the wary, nervous [Ranchers] approaching the line of silent Golems, he froze.
“Petria…?”
For a moment, it was her. Not as she had been, but as she would have been if she had lived as long as Ulva. That ponytail. Grey hair revealing faintly red strands. Symbols of their link to Terandrian royalty. And the clothing—
Then Ulva Terland was there again, and Nouzcrat staggered. But he saw her, still. It was not a perfect copy. There had always been impish playfulness, a willingness to push convention that Ulva lacked. But Petria had loved grand moments.
“Lady Terland. If we have offended you, we beg pardon. But we are the families who live here. We will not beg for the lands we have a right to.”
It was Marvus Lischelle who knelt and then glanced up at her. He licked his lips as he stared up at Timekeeper’s graven face, the merciless impassiveness of the other Golems, and the twin War Golems armed with battleaxes.
Ulva Terland just sat on her dais, holding the thin conductor’s wand in her hand. She spoke simply.
“I have been petitioned by House Rumask, House Everight, and House Zigur for the reinstatement of lands that they claim your people stole. They assert you attacked their people and drove them out under fear of death.”
Marvus opened his mouth, and Ulva silenced him with a look and her aura.
“House Everight I object to. Toldos is dead. I do not care if Reinhart claims a descendant has been found. If they did not present themselves to Lord Toldos during his long search, I do not acknowledge them as a Flower of Izril. Damia Reinhart, your family and mine are at odds over this. Ensure your family knows that we do not war.”
Her head turned, and her eyes flashed. Damia held up her hands.
“I disavow everything my family said! Wait, who’s saying—?”
As if she’d heard nothing, Ulva continued, her voice ringing. She knew how to speak, even in an open space.
“I am Terland. It is my will that shapes the north, along with that of the Five Families. We are the gardeners of Izril, and too many have forgotten that. Magnolia Reinhart took it upon herself to prune the weeds as she saw fit. I hold the laws of Izril to simple effect. No one man or woman may claim land that is not a Flower of Izril.”
Uh oh. Lyonette swallowed as she and Ilvriss watched Ulva glance down at the Lischelles. Marvus’ jaw was set, and Ilvriss was reminded of Big Burlap. A bull, but one aware of the danger, just waiting.
Lyonette was watching Aronia, and both she and Colfa knew the woman had a temper. Her eyes were flashing. Ulva Terland had a lot of Golems around her, but Aronia had her left hand, and if it could knock a bull aside…
The [Lady] of House Terland stopped then, with a sense for the dramatic, and took a sip from her cup purely for the show of it. Then she gazed down at Marvus and Aronia.
“After seeing the lands here myself, I do not find the three noble houses’ complaints valid. Each one left these lands when the Goblin King struck. Some to cowardice, others for lack of arms. The reason matters not. None of the houses has the strength to claim their holdings. We do not have enough nobles of Izril. As fortune or fate wills it—I do not need to go through the tediousness of assigning new classes. [Baron] shall do, even if it is [Cattle Baron].”
What was she saying? Everyone but her family was slow to catch on. Nouzcrat had given Ulva an alarmed look and begun to speak, then eyed the [Lady]’s changed appearance and sunk back into place with a sigh. Lyonette’s mouth opened.
“Ilvriss, is she…?”
“I think she just did.”
The Lischelles didn’t get what was meant either. Aronia was bristling like a porcupine, about to spit something back, when she saw Colfa gesticulating frantically with Nanette. The two were doing rapid sign language, waving their hands, trying to say…
All the Lischelles stared at the two dancing about until Mrsha slapped her forehead and wrote in big letters over her head:
She’s making you nobles.
“What?”
Aronia shouted and leapt up. The sentiment was echoed.
“What? Great Aunt, are you mad? They’re manure-shovelling [Ranchers]!”
Alorelle was utterly appalled. The Lady of Stone stepped forwards, and Aronia flushed. Her hand twitched—and Ulva spoke.
“Bodyguard, slap her.”
The personal bodyguard of Lady Alorelle slapped her so hard she twisted around. Ulva eyed the Golem.
“Hmm. That was harder than I expected. Someone’s Golems are not happy with her. Let that be a lesson about something. Rise, Lischelles. You kneel to no one ever again. Next!”
That last snap was purely Ulva. But when she smiled, there was a ghost of Petria Terland in her. The Lischelles were getting to their feet.
“Us? Nobles?”
Marvus seemed like he’d been kicked by Big Burlap. He and his wife were stunned, and Ulva nodded at them.
“Those who tend the land own the land. We are not [Kings] or [Queens] to dole it out. What you take, you keep. The reason Laken Godart is allowed to exist is because he was needed and there was no one who held his lands. But his empire shall endure as long as he is just, and not beyond his lifespan. No heirs. No monarchs on Izril’s soil. That is no saying, but a promise. We’ll get the Serpentine Matriarch eventually. Now, the next family.”
She beckoned impatiently at the Golvas. They were frozen, not sure if this was some huge prank. When they turned to Ilvriss and Lyonette, the two shrugged.
This was new to them as well. Neither Wall Lord nor [Princess] had ever seen noble titles being given out this…liberally! However, Ulva was brisk, and she let each family have their moment.
After the third family, the silence began to break. Applause sounded—by the time she got to the fourth [Rancher] family, their people started cheering. When the last group rose, there was a long silence—then a whoop.
Rabbo Golva slid on his knees across the ground with a drink in hand, and the band began to play as he leapt up and did a jig. Then Marvus swung Aronia around, laughing, and there was dancing, celebrations—
Not all of the [Cattle Barons] were so exuberant. Marvus was overjoyed when the shock faded, but Colfa saw her sister’s face was full of reserve. A weight upon her and trepidation.
Not just her—she recognized Nithle Calabie biting his lip and speaking to Ulva before she bestowed his new rank upon him. She spoke down to him, and he knelt—slowly.
Nobles. Colfa had grown up sneering at the idea of the nobility, knowing them only as greedy thieves who employed thugs by a different name. Now the [Ranchers] were that nobility. To some, it was bitter or as if Ulva had dumped more difficulties on their lap.
But that was one of the Five Families for you, wasn’t it? Ulva noticed Colfa looking at her. She returned the gaze until the Vampiress bowed and ducked her head. And the [Matriarch] of House Terland dismissed her.
I do not have the time nor interest to deal with you, Vampire.
Ulva Terland just sat there as Lyonette and Ilvriss walked over. She didn’t need to beckon them. She just spoke to the air.
“That [Cattle Baroness], Aronia? She appeared ready to kill me. What kind of slap Skill does she have?”
“[Bull’s Slap] or something. It turns bulls.”
Lyonette spoke, and Ulva glanced at her.
“I was speaking to my Golems, not you, [Princess]. Fine. Lady Zanthia teaches [Ladies] how to slap, but not that hard. I’d give good coin to see her and Magnolia Reinhart determine who’s stronger. I was never good at that stupid trick. But it will do. This lot seems sturdy enough. We need new blood. They’ll fill the ranks of the Flowers of Izril well enough. It’s no kindness. When we are called to drive the Witch of Webs back or face the Goblin King, they will be called upon too. If they fail, I will prune them.”
“Is that the way the Five Families do it?”
“I have no doubt my peers and traditionalists will hold me to task. It normally takes a quorum of peers. I am that quorum with my family here. Enough to satisfy any requirements. Moreover, I need less tradition. Golems, witness me.”
She turned, and Timekeeper and all the Golems standing around the party spoke.
“ɪᴛ ɪꜱ ᴡɪᴛɴᴇꜱꜱᴇᴅ.”
That unified, dispassionate voice. Lyonette du Marquin shivered, and she and Ilvriss drew closer. They stood before one of the leaders of the north. Ilvriss wondered if it would have been like this, facing Zail in his prime. But Salazsar was an entire city. A fifth of the Five Families’ will was one [Lady].
Ulva Terland sat on her floating dais and spoke.
“Well? You have your audience. Give me one reason not to have you killed.”
“Has my uncle not been in touch, Lady Terland? I rather hoped he could speak for me.”
She snorted as Ilvriss bowed slightly.
“He gave me reasons the rest of the family would hear. Not I. You are digging for the City of Purity.”
Ilvriss started, and she rolled her eyes.
“That was obvious. The Golems tell me it is folly to unearth. Why should I ignore the voices of stone and let you dig up armageddon? Whatever lies down there, it killed the Drakes there. Do you think you’ve brought enough to stop it?”
That—was a really good point. Lyonette had never gone over what Ilvriss expected to find down there, not really. The Wall Lord took a deep breath.
“With respect, I do think I have some protections, Lady Terland. Your Hunter-Killer might have nearly assassinated me, but I have standing forces. The Rubirel Guard, the Erchirite Spears—”
“Dead and dead if we warred. My Golems say it is too dangerous for them. You are one Drake.”
“I am not alone. I have the backing of the City of Gems.”
Ilvriss was trying to be polite, but Ulva was back to being snappish. She glanced past him.
“You’re no Zail Gemscale. He was a [Swordmaster]. You don’t have his levels. You don’t have an army.”
“I am here because someone must be!”
Ilvriss snapped, and her head swung back down. Lyonette tried to smile and soothe things over.
“What Ilvriss means is—”
“What I mean is that I have The Wandering Inn and a [Princess] on my side! A [Princess] who’s higher-level than most damn monarchs!”
Ilvriss put an arm around Lyonette’s shoulder, and she jumped. She hissed.
“Ilvriss!”
He raised his voice as Ulva lifted one eyebrow.
“A runaway [Princess] is your best asset.”
“A [Princess] who has breached Level 40 before turning twenty. A genius not even Lord Xitegen can match for sheer youth! Or are Level 40 [Princesses] that weak, Lady Terland? I have the Silverfang Tribe, a mandate from General Sserys, and the need to be here. We all do! Zel Shivertail did not die for us to war!”
Ilvriss was not under a [Silence] spell. Lyonette saw heads turning, the music dying down, but the Wall Lord ignored her hands trying to muffle him. He jerked his head around her as she shushed him. Pointed a claw at Ulva.
“I have been respectful as I can be, Lady Ulva! Ancestors witness me, I have a temper and ego, but I have done my utmost to come here tactfully, aware of all the sins of my forebears! But you cannot be blind! Or has Xitegen told you the Winter Solstice was nothing more than a friendly dustup with a few zombies? More is coming! Or has a war in the Meeting of Tribes not shown that? The New Lands rising? The King of Destruction waking would be reason enough to dig!”
“House Terland is not blind, Wall Lord. I am not impressed with the King of Destruction’s little return or the Meeting of Tribes. As for this Winter Solstice, I take my own council. Not that of Walled Cities.”
She was the model of indifference, which Lyonette took to be a calculated move. The Quarass and her mother were experts in the same thing that Ulva was doing. Give nothing away unless you wanted to. She wished she were so good, but she couldn’t be. Nor could Ilvriss; his eyes flashed. Lyonette almost went to stop him, but let him try.
“What about the Goblin King, Lady Ulva Terland?”
That made Ulva stop. When her head rose, mouth opened, Ilvriss cut her off.
“He did return, and it was him. I was not there but I believe it. Anyone who has ever seen him would remember. Do you call that a normal event? Two Goblin Kings in a century. What of the Seamwalkers that Drath and the Iron Vanguard fought? Ask them; one destroyed the Eir Gel island. They’re the reason healing potions can no longer be made. This world is changing, and this is why I dig.”
The murmurs from the Terlands behind Ulva were growing louder. At first, they had sneered or scoffed at Xitegen, echoing Ulva’s attitude and their family’s. But though some might deny these events had happened, Lady Ulva?
No. Not the Goblin King. She met Ilvriss’ eyes and there was a flash of something. A break in her armor. Then her voice cooled down again.
“So the hour has come to awaken more Golems, to rouse the Five Families to action. I am not blind to that. But when a Drake comes to me and says, ‘take my claw, let us stand together’, I go down to our family tombs. And count how many of my predecessors died of being stabbed in the back.”
“I am not my ancestors, Lady Ulva Terland—”
“Hah. We shall see. Your arguments are entertaining, if nothing else, but when a stranger comes to my door shouting for me to take their hand? You do think too much of yourself, Wall Lord of Salazsar. You are not the man who could stop one of the King of Destruction’s vassals, let alone the rest of what you spoke of.”
Ulva Terland was inspecting her fingernails, which Lyonette realized had a very light gloss on them. They, too, had been grey until she activated her Skill. Now she even seemed less old and lined. Ilvriss hesitated, and Lyonette jumped in.
“It’s true that Wall Lord Ilvriss is underprepared for the threat, Lady Ulva. He can’t deny it. He can barely beat those [Ranchers], and that’s partly because he doesn’t want to spill blood, but he’s not ready for a Walled City under our feet.”
Now he was trying to shove her, glaring. But Lyonette went on.
“And—stop shoving—you know what? That’s fine. He is still in the right position and the right time! Already, his subordinates are counter-levelling! That’s why even people like Lady Damia have flocked to his banner! If the Walled Cities were smart, they would have all sent resources and manpower! There might be suffering, but look what the dungeon under Liscor has done for the city! The Golems fear what the City of Purity might be. Golems do not level.”
For a moment, Lyonette thought that the Golem known as Timekeeper nodded fractionally. Ulva’s eyes swung to his face, then she leaned forwards.
“Even were I to accept both explanations, I still object to you, Wall Lord Ilvriss. You are a Drake. If I took that argument, I would just seize your enterprise myself and put Xitegen in charge.”
“Great Aunt, I don’t dig—”
She silenced him with a look. Ilvriss stepped forwards, and Lyonette held her breath. He barked back—
“Go ahead.”
Even Ulva blinked at that. Ilvriss gestured at Xitegen.
“By all means, put Lord Xitegen in charge! I cede it to him. Let’s have a contract. Let the Lord of the Thighs take over the digging work!”
Marvus snorted into his cup at Xitegen’s nickname. Ilvriss’ eyes glittered dangerously.
“Having known Lord Xitegen, I am sure he has ample expertise in running a mining operation. Safety protocols, people for that—I welcome him to do the work. Oh, and to deal with all the flies. They carry diseases, and they need constant killing. Not to mention the cost of this enterprise is destroying me with virtually no yield in this damn soil! And the smell! Do you know what our nose plug budget is? Please take it from me! Let’s see how well the Golems do when they hit their first liquid magicore patch and it drains their Golem Hearts dry!”
Even the Golems were mildly alarmed at this, and Xitegen was making ‘x’ motions at his aunt, but she just sat there. Ilvriss took a breath.
“I’m happy to cede this project. I tell a lie; I’m not happy, but I’ll do it. I’ll even cooperate, but no one asked if I wanted to cooperate. In fairness, I didn’t think to ask. That’s my fault. But you assume I have come to grab. Here.”
He strode forwards, and one of the Golems intercepted him. Ilvriss slammed down a briefcase in Corde’s hands, flipped it open, and gestured.
“Pickaxe! Get it appraised! I’m no fool! Yes, I’m a damned Drake, and we’re greedy, and we can’t give anything away—so what? We’ve been Drakes for aeons and not killed each other because we have laws! Protocols! Ways to enforce collaboration! Do you think I don’t have shareholders?”
He glanced around at everyone. They stared at him, and Ilvriss paused, rubbed at his forehead.
“…You savages don’t know what shareholders are, do you? I refuse to apologize for that comment. Lady Ulva, if you are going to evict me and my people, I insist on at least negotiating. Because this is what we have dug up. And you are no fool.”
He held up a helmet, and it looked ordinary to all those without the senses of a Golem. Ilvriss placed it back down.
“We have struck Truegold in the mines. Leaving it is the biggest waste of all. We know where a fortune is. Is it the will of the Terlands to leave treasure buried? I cannot believe you have survived this long with that mentality.”
He stepped back and realized he’d just been shouting at the woman he’d come to persuade. Ilvriss colored, adjusted his suit, wiped at his sweaty scales, and coughed into a hand.
“…I realize we are historically enemies. But we needn’t repeat the mistakes of our fathers, Lady Terland. I am tired of war, and I have participated in so few. May we speak with earnest cooperation in mind?”
That was all. Lyonette had come up with other levers to use. Arguments based on the magical door or the authority of Pallass and Liscor…but in the end, it was Ulva Terland. She had the power to force things.
The [Lady] just sat there. And, Lyonette realized, she had asked relatively reasonable questions about the dangers of the dig. How anyone could guarantee a Drake from the south could be trusted.
Maybe…she peeked at Ulva Terland, and the [Lady]’s voice was soft.
“The Five Families will never trust a Drake in our lands. I do not. I do not trust Calanfer, either. Trust is not required for profit or else the Reinharts would never have anyone work with them. The final reason I come here is simple. You stopped my heart, and your agent took Petria’s face. But for a miracle, I would have died.”
Gasps from the Terlands, the [Ranchers]. Every eye swung towards Ilvriss and Lyonette, and she opened her mouth. To Lyonette’s intense embarrassment, her first response was purely that of her daughters.
“I—well—you attacked Ilvriss first! Don’t send [Assassins] if you don’t want to be assassinated!”
It was such a bad retort that Dame Ushar covered her face with one hand and tried to pretend she wasn’t Lyonette’s [Knight]. Ilvriss winced.
“That’s Calanferian diplomacy? It was an accident, Lady Ulva. As we fought for our lives? We didn’t think that would occur.”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland glanced from the Human to the Drake.
“…’You did it first’ and ‘it was an accident’ are the best reasons you two could come up with? Is there anyone with a better reason?”
She actually peered past Ilvriss and Lyonette. At Mrsha, who was still trying to work on the Forbidden Bowl—it was Nanette in her lumberjack’s outfit who raised a hand.
“Lady Ulva, if I may?”
“What?”
“What kind of fool tries to manually control a Golem across half the damn continent? Let alone has an aura war against two aura-experts?”
Everyone stepped away from Nanette but Hethon, who took a huge breath and tried to sidle back and put himself between her and the wrath of Ulva Terland. The [Matriarch] sat there, then grinned.
“Girl. You remind me of a [Lady] who gave up her class. Art thou a [Witch]?”
“Without the class, yes!”
Nanette tossed her head proudly and put her hands on her hips. Rabbo Golva nearly leapt into a Golem’s arms as he recoiled from her. Ulva nodded, thoughtful.
“That will do. Golems, dunk her head in a bucket. Don’t drown her. Witches used to send their apprentices to House Terland to learn a lesson. What kind, I’ll never know.”
A Golem went walking towards Nanette, and she wavered.
“Don’t you dare! Don’t you—”
Hethon tried to save Nanette. Ulva Terland just sat back on her dais and sighed. After a moment of gazing up at the sky, she realized Ilvriss and Lyonette were still waiting.
“I have yet to meet the Drake who stole my sister’s face. I will meet with her before I leave.”
“…And the not-inconsiderable threats to my life and that of my people, Lady Terland?”
“We’ll see how this cookout goes, shall we? You’ve earned yourself a reprieve.”
Ulva’s eyes glittered, and she sat back. Lyonette and Ilvriss eyed each other, and Xitegen let a breath out.
Had they actually forced Ulva Terland back? Shakily, Lyonette smiled. Ilvriss turned, saw Nanette screaming as a bucket was filled with water, and smiled.
“I think that we swayed her.”
“Are you sure? Or is she waiting to bring the hammer down?”
They glanced at Ulva, and she sat, beckoning one of her family over next. Lyonette hesitated.
“She’s likely not going to make up her mind on the spot. If we give her a reason to pause, Ilvriss, it buys us a day. Making up your mind isn’t something she’d do lightly.”
“True. And that gives Nerul an opening. Ancestors, I’m sweating arrows over here. What—what next?”
“Er, uh, I’ll buy time with dessert!”
Lyonette rushed over as Nanette emerged from her dunking and was put down. She immediately began kicking the Golem and tried to storm forwards to have it out with Lady Ulva—Mrsha and Xitegen were trying to save her from herself.
And perhaps…
 
——
 
Ulva Terland was holding court, speaking to young Chovn, and letting the boy announce his class to his family. She watched the [Princess] and Wall Lord, annoyed.
Neither one had swept her away. The rest of her family or something, perhaps. But it annoyed Ulva because she had seen better.
Not to say they hadn’t done some things decently. But was Ulva the only one who remembered Fulviolo and Maviola? Linter and Celica, the original love story that had swept Izril before Pellmia had even been a mote in his father’s eye?
One of the few remaining, yes. She exhaled. It was a disservice to compare the two to the Els in their prime, or anyone else. But…well.
This fell into one of the six outcomes she had calculated upon leaving her house. Ulva Terland knew how Golems thought. If she was not as adept…she drummed her fingers on the armrest of her dais.
She would have to inquire further and make sure she was correct. And meet that damned Drake. The face-changer. But she knew. She saw.
 
——
 
There was hope. That was Nerul Gemscale’s only thought when he skidded into the cookout, too late and, perhaps, just in time.
He didn’t greet Lyonette or Ilvriss. He just grabbed the nearest Terland, shook hands, and began throwing Skills.
“Lord Nouzcrat, Diplomat Nerul. Can we resolve this all decently? Lovely Golems, by the way. I’m a posterior-man myself. Can’t beat a good tail.”
“Wha—who are—how dare you—?”
Nouzcrat was ambushed and metaphorically taken into an alleyway and beaten with sticks. Diplomatic sticks. Nerul smiled.
“[Hear Me Out], sir. I realize you don’t like to go against Lady Ulva Terland. But I was the one threatening about the Zelkyr Golems? Ah, you do remember. I just wish to add that old Eschowar’s back in Salazsar.”
“He…he is? That monster’s not dead?”
Nouzcrat turned dead white. Nerul smiled tightly.
“And he’s up to his old tricks. Now, consider that killing Ilvriss gives him full casus belli to invade the north. We both know that Eschowar never needed it. But he needs support from the other Walled Cities, and killing a Wall Lord does that. Think on that. Must run; I’ll be back.”
He left Nouzcrat to sit down and attacked. Like a shark.
“Rabbo Golva! Listen, my man. I know that it’s hard to beat the Lischelles. I, personally, love your steaks. But Marvus there, well, his are the most famous steaks, and I was just in Salazsar trying to order yours, and Administrator Alrric—lovely man, pays for all the Gemscale finances—he asked ‘why not Lischelle beef?’. And you have to admit, they edge you out in prices, if not pure quality.”
To be precise, Alrric had asked, ‘why not Lischelle beef if we have to order some, and why do we want to support Humans in the north when we can get quality meat from our own [Ranchers]?’
But it was enough. The [Primed Talking Point] had Rabbo Golva in a moment.
“Aren’t you that [Diplomat]? See here, Lischelle beef—”
“Beats yours, Rabbo. Not to my palate, but listen: who has a refined palate these days? Not some idiot [Merchant] we’re wining and dining. The wine means he’s not tasting the steak. That’s why the Lischelles have you.”
“I—that’s just your—”
“Unless you had a magical door that cuts all the cost of delivery to Invrisil or Pallass. And Liscor’s got an up-and-coming upper class. Now, I can’t discuss this in the open, but you could undercut every Lischelle delivery by a week and save a fortune on delivery fees. I know the Driver’s Guild and Merchant’s Guild think they’re hot magicore. That door covers four hundred miles. You could beat Marvus with City Runners.”
Rabbo Golva might not get all of what Nerul was dumping on him, but his wife or sons did. They stirred—and so did Marvus Lischelle. The [Cattle Baron] was popping champagne, but the smile faded as one of his sons dashed over. He whirled like a bull scenting trouble.
Nerul finished with two more [Ranchers], then stepped forwards.
And here we go…
“Aren’t you the diplomat I beat out the other day?”
“That was ages ago, Marvus. And you have a damn good punch. I’m not ashamed to say that I’ve lost the spring in my step. But I’ve come back to stop my nephew from losing what brain cells he has left—I like his level of stupidity now. This is my dance, and I insist on having a piece.”
The two men sized each other up as space cleared. They were both big men, and Marvus wrangled cattle. He was a brawler, a strong man—but he realized Nerul had changed.
Despite his efforts, Nerul hadn’t had enough time to make a complete makeover, even with Grimalkin of Pallass’ help. But there was something…sturdier about Nerul. Not just size.
His…thighs? His arms? Everything looked larger, ever so slightly, but the effect made Nerul a bit bigger.
A bit more…
Swole.
And he didn’t back down in front of Marvus, even with the [Cattle Baron] bristling in his face. Nerul flexed one arm, and Lady Damia oohed. She could see his muscles in the definition of the slightly too-tight suit.
“I’d hate to settle this the old-fashioned away, unless that means drinking you under the table, Marvus.”
Ping.
That was the sound of one of his buttons on his suit exploding from the force of his flexing. It pinged off a wineglass and shattered it. Alorelle Terland screamed, but a hand blocked the shards of glass from striking her face.
Her own bodyguard Golem was too slow—but a Drake with a glittering face carved from gemstone smiled as she placed the shards of glass back in Alorelle’s cup.
“My apologies, Lady Terland.”
“Y-you’re—”
Xitegen’s head snapped around, but then it went back to Nerul. The Thigh Lord could appreciate another man with good thighs. Marvus was eying Nerul warily.
“Bit more of a spine in you, eh?”
“I’ve always been spiny, but historically, it’s been supported by less muscle and more fat. The Sinew Magus himself has certified my spine. Now, Marvus. I’m just going to undercut your business with anyone I need to in order to stop the fighting. Alright?”
“I don’t let anyone threaten my family’s way of living, Diplomat.”
“And I don’t let people threaten my nephew or my city.”
The two men squared off. Marvus adjusted his own too well-tailored suit. Nerul popped another button. There was a pause…and Marvus snatched a cup.
“Rabbo Golva’s a crook and a liar. If you’re doing drinks, I’ll bring out the good stuff. Don’t leave me out, y’hear?”
“I wouldn’t dream of it. And may I compliment you on your suit? Marvellous style.”
“You’re not bad yourself. You been working out?”
“At the gymnasium, yes. Splendid for gains or building the core. Which gains and which core, I’m not sure, but there’s a bunch of annoyingly enthusiastic people who will cheer you on even if you crap your pants. Which I did on my first day.”
Marvus began laughing as Nerul began recounting his own legend. Which drew in Rabbo Golva, who wanted to hear the story and know how the Drake appeared so fit and get in on this deal if Marvus was talking—
 
——
 
Ilvriss was rather stunned by Nerul’s appearance. When the [Diplomat] extricated himself—in six minutes—and went moving towards the Terlands like a shark, the Wall Lord caught him.
“Uncle! You’re just in time; we’ve been surviving Ulva Terland, and I think it’s going decently, but—what was that about working out? You wrote me something about that, and what is that Golem?”
He’d spotted Yweine and felt an uneasy flutter in his stomach, but Nerul confused him.
“I thought you were doing all that to beat Marvus’ Skill or how he stopped you last time!”
“Nephew! Gah, you’re sweaty, and I’m starved. I’ve eaten nothing but healthy things—which, delightfully, includes meat at times—but I will feast! Yes, yes, I did it. Hugely embarrassing—I’ll tell you the entire story when lovely ladies aren’t around to laugh at me. And I did manage to take Marvus out. You saw him back off?”
“Yes, but I thought you’d beat him in a fistfight.”
Ilvriss had rather imagined the two throwing down in a bare-knuckles brawl for Nerul to reassert his dominance, and from the disappointed expressions on Nanette’s and Damia’s faces—and several others—they’d been hoping for the same thing. Nerul just sighed and patted Ilvriss gently on the shoulder.
“Nephew…what do you think [Diplomats] are? All that damn effort, stress, and again, Umbral Throning myself in public—was just for that. It’s not about throwing a punch. It’s about not doing it when you can. That’s the entire point of soft power, the lesson some Drakes never learn. The stick needn’t swing for it to remain a stick.”
“…I’ve missed you, Uncle. I could have used your way with words about five minutes ago.”
Ilvriss hugged Nerul, and the [Diplomat] whispered.
“Don’t thank me yet. I’ve landed us in trouble in Salazsar, but it was the only move I had. That Golem with the gemstone face is with us. With you—and trust her like you trust Tessa, or less. I got her out of the Vaults.”
Ilvriss froze. His eyes found Yweine, and he paled.
“Uncle. Are you insane?”
“Only as much as anyone else is these days, Ilvriss. Now be diplomatic.”
“To whom?”
“Her. Charming, charming, Ilvriss! Prove you’re not just some Wall Lord, and believe me, she’s already watching and, dare I say, reading our lips or something clever whenever we’re not activating privacy spells. So—here we go. How mad is Ulva Terland?”
The two Drakes stepped back, and Ilvriss stared at the Golem from Zelkyr’s age. She was greeting the Terlands, and they were dumbstruck. Ulva Terland herself was eying Yweine, and Ilvriss muttered.
“Rude, but not as hostile as I presumed.”
“Interesting. Interesting. Is she pulling the old Good Twin, Bad Twin routine? Hm. She’s lacking Petria, so she’d do it all herself?”
“How the hell did you know…? Is that good or bad?”
Nerul was just eyeing Ulva.
“I’m inclined to think it’s good. If it was worst-case, she’d come in all smiles, then murder you in front of everyone. She still might, but the more time she spends on us, the more I think she’s willing to listen. Ulva Terland hates wasting time on dead men. Let’s coordinate with Yweine before she can divide us. Yweine’s intelligence is beyond ours—in some ways. If we have a chance, it’s with her.”
The two Drakes nodded, and Ilvriss felt a surge of relief. Now they had their heavy-hitter, it was time to finish this dreadful altercation. The Lischelles seemed happy, and maybe he wasn’t wrong in thinking they’d won some respect for the Highstepper and everything else from them.
And Lyonette had the cake. She wheeled it out and called out.
“Everyone? I invite you to have dessert in honor of the Terlands!”
The Golem-statue appeared, and both Drakes winced when they saw it. Nerul sighed.
“A giant Golem as a cake. Somehow, that’s just so typical it’s a cliché. Well, I’m hungry enough for it. And it’s so tacky—”
“Dead gods, what a splendid cake!”
Lord Moltin exclaimed, and the Terlands applauded loudly. The [Diplomat] amended his statement.
“—Which is just what we need. Nice work. Did Lyonette come up with that?”
“No, it’s Lady Damia’s effort. She knows Terlands. Lady Damia, meet Nerul. She’s been nothing but an asset, Nerul.”
She hurried over, beaming.
“Diplomat Nerul, I am so delighted to meet you! I’d love to meet you and Wall Lord Ilvriss formally, if I may, after this—”
“Damia Reinhart! Dead gods, you’ve changed from my reports on you! I’m far too old, young lady, for any flirting!”
“My past? All behind me, Diplomat, no need to bring it up! Ha-ha! Ha!”
“Splendid, my dear. A Reinhart in our corner beats one at our backs with a poisoned dagger, but if you had any insights…lovely cake. I admit, sometimes I don’t go for the low-hanging fruit because I think it’s too banal. How did you get that made up so fast?”
Damia waved an airy hand at the cake as the first slice was carved onto a plate for Lord Moltin.
“Oh, I got it for a song when I went to Invrisil to search for Varnie. Unfortunately, I think she’s run off my money. Ha, hahaha…”
Both Drakes eyed her, and she coughed.
“…Anyways, I was worried, but I found this excellent [Baker] who assured me he’d do it for a song! He was quite the character! Molvedouka, I think his name was. Very funny man. I didn’t know half-Elves grew mustaches.”
Something about that name made a warning bell go off in Ilvriss’ head. But that was nothing to the way the Golems registered the faint conversation they were eavesdropping on—then Timekeeper’s head snapped around, and he began to move.
 
——
 
“A Golem as a cake? Ugh. I can’t count how many Golem-themed foods I’ve had. Just once, I want some originality in life. Fine, get me a slice.”
Ulva Terland was groaning as her family flooded towards the cake. Timekeeper snapped to attention, and she frowned.
“Not instantly. I’m not that hun—”
“Lady Terland. I believe a dangerous individual has infiltrated this gathering or poisoned the cake. You are in critical danger.”
She froze as Timekeeper’s head swivelled, and the Golems around her formed a circle. They were suddenly alert. She spoke.
“The Drakes?”
“No. It may be a coincidence, but a name was overheard that falls into patterns based on an old enemy. Chema, investigate.”
The Gnoll Golem was striding for the cake, and Ulva Terland’s eyes locked on it. She saw the first piece of cake being served onto Lord Moltin’s plate, chocolate, oozing with still-molten brown batter, mixed with green…
Lord Moltin hesitated as he eyed the green strands running from the cake’s interior. Rather odd choice in frosting, he decided. Off-putting. Nevertheless, he’d taken the slice, so he began to lick at a fork—
Chema slapped the fork and plate out of his hands so fast Moltin was licking the air. She thrust him back before he could recoil, and then Ulva saw the green ooze continuing to run from the cake. Then…yellow pus.
The eager partygoers made a sound of disgust and backed away. Lyonette stopped smiling. Her head slowly turned…and the pus that was definitely not frosting splattered onto the ground.
It stank. The smell was so foul that Moltin immediately lost control of his stomach. He vomited, falling onto his hands and knees, and Ulva saw other diners retch. And the pus kept coming…
“How was that in the cake and you didn’t detect it? Poison? It’s too obvious—”
The Golems around her had gone still, she realized. Utterly. Even their Hearts had stopped beating. It was not them who spoke, but Yweine.
The only Golem not linked by the Terlands’ Skills was staring at the cake.
“Intriguing. The plague-like substance does not register as magic or a contaminant to any identification spells despite clearly exhibiting said effects. It is acting as a concealing liquid, akin to neutralized magicore. To what purpose?”
To hide something from a Golem or Salazsar’s eyes, you idiot. Yweine seemed to come to the same conclusion as Ulva did. She shifted, eyes flicking to Wall Lord Ilvriss, Nerul. But before anyone could move, Chema’s circling of the cake-statue came to a halt. She backed up—
A foot kicked the Gnoll Golem in the chest as she tried to dodge, breaking out of the batter. Ulva heard a thump—recoiled in shock—and saw no Chema.
The Golem was gone, just…torn-up ground where she had been standing.
“Chema?”
A hand punched out of the Golem-cake. A figure tore out from the inside, as if birthed by the foul liquids that cascaded down around him. Bits of pus, green ooze, brown filth…and blood. He swept his hair back in a foul spray of liquids, yet it didn’t touch his clothing or skin as he walked out.
He had put on his best clothing. It was a cookout after all.
Tolveilouka had draped himself in the kind of green that reminded Ulva of pond scum. Of a mold, somehow a foul, dirty color at odds with the delicate high-collared coat he wore. It could have belonged to a nobleman with no taste…except for the buttons.
They were tiny, screaming faces made of polished brass. Oh, and Tolveilouka’s boots were filthy black. He strutted forwards, and his shirt looked like writhing maggots. White and yellow over black.
Just cloth. He carried a sword at his side. A single-edged weapon, and his blonde hair was tied back in a long, wide-ended ponytail by two ribbons down his back.
He was the most stylish monster that Ulva Terland had ever seen, and he instantly set off every alarm in the woman’s body. Tolveilouka stepped out of the cake and smiled.
“That’s better. I thought dessert would never come.”
 
——
 
It was all worth it for moments like these. Yes, he had waited for this moment. Yes, he had forced terrified bakers to bake him into this cake. Carefully altered the insides so the Golems wouldn’t detect him until it was breached.
And he had waited through the entire day and cookout for this moment.
Why?
If you had to ask why, you were beyond salvation. The answer was style. There could be no other reason. The only thing that would have made it not worth it was some idiot hitting the cake or running into it.
The other two times Tolveilouka had done this, it had happened, so he was really happy to cross this one off his list. He particularly relished the slack-jawed expression on Lyonette’s face.
She really thought she’d been safe from him. He blew her a kiss as she swayed. Then he turned.
Terland Golems and the [Ranchers]. Oh, and Salazsar. Was it his birthday? Tolveilouka scooped some of the filth he’d secreted onto a slice of cake.
“Wonderful party, Princess. I couldn’t help myself; I made you a dessert.”
He took a huge bite of the mixture, and someone else threw up. Tolveilouka masticated, then threw the slice of cake at a Silverfang Gnoll.
Someone blocked the cake, cursing. Ser Dalimont dropped his shield instantly—Tolveilouka was disappointed.
He would have loved to see what that cake piece would have given the Silverfang. Damn Golems. They’d stopped the others from eating the cake.
“Well then. Shall we get this cookout started?”
No one was speaking. Shock. Tolveilouka sighed as he stretched, luxuriating in the moment. Yessir, you had to have fun in life.
He credited Erin Solstice with it, really. His Goddess, indeed, his muse. Just when he’d thought life had nothing left to offer, here he found new joy in mundane things. After all…
He was helping. The theory was simple. The Wall Lord’s dig was in jeopardy. How did you unite such horrible enemies? Give them the biggest one of all to unite against.
Or just kill them all. Tolveilouka was on the fence about it. He figured he’d wing it.
 
——
 
Thump.
That was the sound Chema made as she hit the ground in the distance. How long had she been airborne…?
“Lady Ulva. Golem Chema has been rendered unable to serve. Threat identified. The Putrid One’s minions walk again. Warning. WARNING. ALL GOLEMS OF HOUSE TERLAND, TO ARMS. TOLVEILOUKA THE WRETCHED IS STILL ALIVE. LOCK DOWN HOUSE TERLAND.”
Timekeeper was first to speak. And when he did—his voice boomed. It echoed.
 
——
 
It echoed across House Terland. Golems in the field froze about their tasks. Citizens of House Terland and the nobles of their house jumped as the Golems swung their heads down.
The Light of the North, the giant Golem who acted as a lighthouse, moved its eyes from the seas. It looked south, and Timekeeper’s distant orders came to it. Minutes too late. Too slow.
“The Putrid One’s greatest servant is threatening the Head of House Terland. Golems, march! The plague cannot be allowed to sweep the world a fifth time.”
The Golems of the North stirred. Conferred—and then the Light of the North took a step. It ripped free from the ancient masonry of the tower it was built into.
Below, the city of First Landing that had overgrown its initial boundaries rang with alarm. Mortals gazed up as the lighthouse broke and the tallest Golem they had ever seen emerged. It was huge, even rough, simple arms and legs for a Golem meant to stand forever. A statue with glowing eyes.
It took one slow, creaking step. Then another. Across the streets, southwards. An alarm was ringing in the Light of the North’s head. One it had heard time and again.
The Putrid One. It remembered…and knew that from the Mansion of Stone, Golems were emerging.
Unsealing the doors of their own vaults. Marching past terrified nobles and storming down the streets. The vast Golems who tilled the fields. The most powerful serving Golems still active.
The ones who were needed.
Step. Step.
The Light of the North’s heart did not thunder. There was no [Lady] of House Terland to order it to beat.
But that was needed. It walked, and there was no hope for the ancient Golem. Only certainty.
When it met the Putrid One’s servant, the ruler of House Terland would need to order its heart to beat. Or it would be destroyed.
The Golem took another step as alarm bells began to ring. It had heard the commands from afar, and it took time for Golems to scream across the continent. It would be too slow when it arrived, of course. It always was.
It might be too slow already. Too late.
The Golems marched upon a foe they remembered from an age when they had resided on Terandria’s shores. The younger Golems did not know why.
They…
Were lucky.
 
——
 
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
Ilvriss had heard the name before. Heard Lyonette tell him about it and how she’d defeated him, and Duke Rhisveri, like an Erin story. Like Facestealer, a great foe laid low by cunning.
Defeated?
He should have asked more. But Lyonette had been confident…and perhaps she hadn’t known. Erin had dealt with this monster, but even she had only—Timekeeper’s voice was measured, even now, but fast.
His heart was beating so fast the words were perfectly-articulated.
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer is a half-Elf from the age of the Putrid One. His nature pre-dates the Creler Wars by numerous ages. He is the greatest creation of the Putrid One, whose name has been damned to history. Combat capabilities are well above that of Named-rank adventurers of the modern era. He has slain Dragons in single combat. Lady Ulva Terland, you and House Terland are in danger. Please retreat. Immediately.”
That was what this thing was? Ilvriss felt his scales crawling. He was sure every [Dangersense] was blaring out of control, but they should have been screaming the moment that damn fake cake arrived.
“Oh no. This is all my fault. My…”
Damia was horrified. But this thing…seemed to know how to cheat every safeguard and Skill. No—he.
He was still a half-Elf. And a monster. Tolveilouka was listening, nodding in approval.
“I love Golems. They remember things properly. I recognize you, Golem. So, the old Gearboxes are still ticking away, eh?”
“Tolveilouka the Wretched. House Terland will destroy you. Desist in your actions or perish, yon fellow.”
Corde spoke. Tolveilouka eyed them.
“You have a funny way of speaking, Golem. I like it. It reminds me of the era I slept in. You think you Golems can halt me? I’ve been watching you all afternoon. So this is why House Terland left Levicus, eh? In decline. Sad, really. But even Golems break. Like toys. Your family cried so loudly when I broke their favorite ones. Like children.”
His teeth, when he bared them, were sharp. Unsettlingly so, even to a Drake.
“I miss that. Shall we dance?”
He stepped forwards, and Corde swung down their hammer. It was a fast, precise blow. They smashed the enchanted hammer against Tolveilouka’s shoulder. There was a ringing impact. The ground deformed under his feet.
His body didn’t shift. Tolveilouka eyed the hammer resting on his shoulder.
“…See?”
Corde stepped back, resetting their stance, and Tolveilouka chuckled. He glanced around, and Marvus Lischelle paled.
“You’re here. You monster.”
“Why, Marvus! Thank you for the meal, y’ken. I’ve been right pleased by all your mighty generosity!”
Tolveilouka hooked his thumbs in his belt and swaggered over, mocking the man’s tone. He leered at Aronia.
“Is this your wife? She looks good enough to eat.”
Marvus raised a fist and hesitated. Tolveilouka ignoring the hammer blow was one thing. And the stench from the cake…Marvus’ instincts were warring with his brain. But he had to do something—
There was an oath. Rabbo Golva swung up a shortsword and pointed it at Tolveilouka.
“You’ve murdered good men ‘n women and cattle! We’re going t—”
Tolveilouka slapped the tip of the shortsword off with a hand. It spun into Rabbo’s temple and lodged there. He fell, clawing at the blade with a cry.
Marvus froze. Eyes locked on Rabbo. Tolveilouka peered down.
“Huh, I missed the brain. That’s so fascinating—it almost never isn’t critical. Actually, I once hit a pickaxe into a man’s head. Got half his lobe, and he just walked off. Saw him two months later, and he was doing sort of well. Pickaxe piece still lodged in there. Even my master was fascinated and wanted to keep him alive, but he tripped running away from us, and that was pretty much it.”
He sighed. Then turned.
“Where was I? Oh, right. Thanking you for your hospitality. And the Terlands. And this lovely Wall Lord, and you, [Princess]. I have room enough for everyone.”
He leered around. Ilvriss saw Lyonette jerk.
“I—I thought you were dealt with. How are you here?”
“Oh, you mean that cute trick you used to try to save your inn? Princess, Princess. I’m Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. Nothing and no one is safe from me. I swore to drown Izril in the dead and plagues. And I shall. That [Innkeeper] gave killing me her best shot, I’ll admit…but no one was helping her, and now she’s out of the way, it’s time to feast.”
He grinned, and just for a second, Ilvriss felt confused, even as he glanced around for a way out. He saw the Rubirel Guard moving, but they’d seen Chema falling, and he was signalling them not to attack. Yet. They had to get the kids, Lyonette, everyone away…but the half-Elf was so dangerous. Could they even survive if they all attacked?
Something was bothering Ilvriss, though. Didn’t Lyonette say Erin had used him? Tried to kill him? And there was something else about Tolveilouka. Ilvriss’ hand stole to his blade, and he swore the half-Elf noticed. But before he could move, Timekeeper spoke.
“Tolveilouka the Wretched. You will be hunted without respite if you assault House Terland’s own. Remove yourself.”
The half-Elf swung around.
“You do remember me. Have we actually fought before? I’ve smashed so many of you, I forget.”
“Yes. This Golem participated in combat against the Putrid One 15,311 years ago.”
“I can tell. One of your inner gears has the tiniest mark of my plague on it. Fascinating.”
“This Golem, known as Timekeeper, was designated ready-for-duty despite contamination. The deterioration of Inner Meridian 33rd Level Gear, Chain 14, 4th Position, 4th Gear was determined to be inconsequential.”
Tolveilouka pshed as he walked forwards, and Timekeeper stepped in front of Ulva Terland to shield her.
“Everyone says that. Had you met me…well, it’d be too hard to pustulate the gear unless I wanted to surprise your masters. Too buried.”
“That was the conclusion of my [Golem Artificer] at the time. A lack of parts necessitated this compromise.”
“Oho. Rebuilding you lot, were they? When was this? I’m picturing a beach.”
“The Battle of Tiabec’s Demise is the conflict you are referencing with a 67% chance of accuracy.”
“Tiabec? They actually named it after that idiot? He was a footnote! We killed him in the first hour!”
“Nevertheless, the record remains. Eighty-seven of my original unit were de-stroyed in naval landing action with a party led by you. You personally destroyed over fifty of my number.”
Tolveilouka snapped his fingers.
“I do remember! Yes, you were poised to give us a nasty attack, but your idiot masters took you too close to the beach. Undead in the waters. Just plague undead, but we swarmed you and kept you from fighting on the ground. It might have gone the other way if some Terland ponce didn’t make that mistake.”
“Lady Yoirn Terland was in command of our forces. Records indicate she later took her own life by throwing herself into the sea.”
“Hah! Classic. This is delightful. I should have bothered House Terland ages ago, but I’ve just been going here, going there, murdering everything, you know, without a plan. As I said, that damn [Innkeeper] really gave me her best shot, but Roshal did for her. The [Princess] over there did something clever too, but nothing stops me long.”
“This is evident. Is your return a herald of your Master’s revi-val?”
 
——
 
What was going on? Timekeeper was chatting with Tolveilouka, and the half-Elf was clearly enjoying every second of it. From a historical perspective, it was probably valuable—Satar Silverfang would have loved this.
Mrsha was about to soil herself. She didn’t know—this wasn’t in the [Palace of Fates]! Sometimes, she’d seen Tolveilouka attack, but he’d never done this.
Popping out of a cake really was beyond any world she’d seen. She didn’t get why Timekeeper was chatting, though—until she saw how the Golem was speaking.
So conversationally. Shielding Ulva Terland from…
Someone touched Mrsha’s shoulder and pulled at her. She jerked—but it was Welsca! The Drake put a claw to her lips, and Xinthe was there.
“Lady Mrsha, this way!”
She mouthed, and Mrsha realized that Ilvriss’ staff were pulling the guests back. Not everyone; Marvus was shielding his family and Ilvriss his soldiers—they were all staying. But they were trying to get…
The horses. They were far enough from the door that they’d have to ride. Or run. It was…what, fifteen minutes of light riding? Call it a thirty-minute dead run.
Too far. But Mrsha was edging backwards with Nanette, using the tables to duck down, when Tolveilouka chuckled.
“Oh, my master? That’s between him and me, old chap. This is grand, just grand. Say, do you recall everything about me?”
“The approximate knowledge of Golems here contains numerous records about you, Tolveilouka the Traitor.”
“Argh, and you were doing so well with my titles. I suppose that is one, but do you, perchance, know any music from those times? Hold on—”
Tolveilouka kicked up the table Mrsha was sneaking behind in an explosion of wood. He turned, caught the punch from Timekeeper, and grunted.
“That’s the strength I remember. Nothing like other Golems. Really, did you think you were getting away?”
Terrified Terlands, [Ranchers], and other guests froze. Tolveilouka grinned, and Timekeeper barred his way again.
“Tolveilouka. Your quarry is the [Princess] of Calanfer, correct?”
“…Of where? You people and your kingdoms. You knock one down, another pops up. Yes, her. That Drake—I’m really here for the entire spread. I heard there was good beef here. So I came by.”
He grinned down at Burlise. She was shaking as she held a belt knife. Tolveilouka’s presence—it made Mrsha’s head go white. Think of something! But what flame could burn—
“If that is so. Will you agree to allow the Terlands to leave in agreement of a temporary truce?”
Mrsha stared at Timekeeper, and Tolveilouka actually pivoted.
“So I get all of them and you don’t fight me?”
“Co-rrect.”
His charge was to defend Ulva Terland. The [Lady] rose to her feet and snapped.
“Timekeeper! House Terland does not sacrifice children!”
“Oh, bravo. Did you see her shout that without dying of embarrassment or hypocrisy?”
The half-Elf applauded, laughing. He peered at Ulva.
“You do know what you people used to make Golems out of? You have to fuel a Golem’s Heart somehow. No? Ah, I see you do.”
Ulva’s eyes narrowed as she regarded Tolveilouka. Mrsha felt sick. Not just because of what Tolveilouka was insinuating.
We’re dead. I thought Ielane was supposed to—
“Shall we play a game of sins, half-Elf? Any old kingdom wins. I am not my forebears. We tossed their bones into the sea when we left Levicus. Why are you here?”
Tolveilouka bowed, then whispered to Timekeeper.
“She is classy. I’m just here to hurt you all, Your Ladyship! Won’t be a moment! Got any more offers since you can’t talk your way out of this one, old fellow? I would have probably just killed all of you and let the others live for that, by the by. Just because it’s funnier.”
Timekeeper’s heart was whirring nonstop. Golems moved around Tolveilouka, flanking him. He peered around.
“No, not those, where are the good Golems? Unless they’re all invisible. Not that one, it’s far too loud. Really invisible.”
He jerked a thumb at the eyestalk Golem, who half-materialized. Timekeeper spoke.
“The Putrid One rests in the Village of Death as it is now known. That he has not emerged is proof he remains incapacitated. Or dead. The Veltras force containing the undead have not been overwhelmed; further evidence. I have communicated this fact to Terland Golems. They will destroy his remains at any cost. An army will raze his tomb to the ground.”
Tolveilouka’s head twisted around impossibly far. And he lost his smile.
“…And you think that’s going to make me relent? I am going to rip your precious Terlands to pieces for that, Golem.”
“This battle benefits neither side. Name your price. It is concie-va-ble a Terland artifact may revive your master. You shall never acquire one if you bring the Five Families to war. Even a being of your caliber will tire of pursuit and become wounded. Die.”
A Golem’s damn logic. Impeccable, but…flawed. The half-Elf was growing more bored with each second. He wound up for a punch, spinning his arm around, and Mrsha could have told Timekeeper he was doing it wrong. If she could speak. If she could think.
It was not she who spoke, then, but another being who acted on logic, unable to feel fear in her bones.
Yweine. The Golem interrupted.
“Timekeeper. This half-Elf predates all known history. His legacy is utterly lost save for a name I do not have stored in my records except for a single location. Your erasure means his data is forfeit. I request clarity as to who this being is before your demise.”
Tolveilouka halted and turned. He studied Yweine.
“Well now, you’re not a Terland Golem. Odd. You’re not that special…but you’re clearly one of those thinking ones. Is that right? You don’t recall me at all? Servant of the greatest Necromancer of Izril?”
“The greatest [Necromancer] of any era is Perril Chandler. Or perhaps Archmage Nekhret.”
Yweine shot back, and Tolveilouka frowned.
“…Who? I’ve heard that damn name before. And an Az’kerash.”
“They are one and the same being.”
“Are they? Are they?”
Xinthe grabbed Mrsha again. Tolveilouka noticed them moving away, but he was getting visibly angry. He spun on his heel.
“You remember me, don’t you, old timer?”
“Ye-es. Only Golems and certain texts remember the Putrid One.”
“How did you forget…? No, no. I’ve been over this. Calm. I am a flower blooming in a cesspool…”
Tolveilouka closed his eyes, breathed in and out, relaxed.
“…Do you remember the expression ‘Giant’s hanging testicles’, at least?”
He asked plaintively, and Timekeeper paused. As if even the Golem couldn’t compute where this was going.
“Yes.”
Tolveilouka sniffed and wiped at his eyes.
“You have no idea what that means to me. Wait, if you recall everything—do you recall my music? My triumphal dirge? My theme song?”
His what? Mrsha tripped as she ran, and she turned her head. A longer pause.
“This is in record in part due to repeated broadcasting.”
“Play it! Play it! I must hear it again! Play it and I swear, I’ll let you live!”
Tolveilouka clapped his hands and danced around. Yweine turned to Timekeeper, as if assuming this was a bluff. But after some beats of his heart, the Golem turned. He did not sing, but several Golems opened their mouths, and music began to play.
It was…scratchy. Distorted by faint screams, the crackle of other sounds, as if heard on a battlefield. Mrsha heard the chanting of voices. Wailing pipes.
He had a damn theme song? Tolveilouka began dancing.
“Oh, oh! It is my music! Wait, why are you all looking at me like that? Does no one compose their own music? Do you just…fight each other without any background ambience? Just heaving at each other, grunting?”
He wore the most disappointed expression ever, as if this were personally offensive to him. As if this were the worst thing that had happened to him since learning no one knew the phrase ‘Giant’s hanging testicles’. Then he shrugged.
“Okay—since I can tell you’re getting less scared and just running, here I go.”
He leapt on the first of the Rubirel Guard, ripped the Drake’s helmet off, and kissed the Drake on the lips.
She puked. Then kept puking maggots out of her mouth. The Rubirel Guard clawed at her face until Tolveilouka slammed the helmet back on. The flailing figure fell over. He turned.
“Keep playing and I won’t attack you Golems!”
Then he side-stepped, dodged a spell shot from Welsca’s wand, and kicked a horse. Tolveilouka’s foot exploded out of the horse’s stomach in a shower of blood, and the animal collapsed.
“Here’s my contribution to the cookout! Wait, it needs something. You too.”
He lifted up a screaming [Rancher] over his head and wedged him in the horse’s guts. Raised a foot, spun—
A sword passed over his head. Tolveilouka caught a lasso thrown by Eni Calabie that burned across his palms from the speed of the rope. He just smiled.
“[Ranchers]. Such a funny class.”
He heaved, and there was a pop. Screaming. Eni’s husband caught her in horror as he stared at her dislocated arms. Tolveilouka began laughing, holding his sides.
“Now, where is that [Princess]? Oh, here we go—”
The first squad of Drakes charged Tolveilouka as the Rubirel Guard advanced. Mrsha heard yelled orders, Skills. Ilvriss was shouting.
“Everyone, get out of here! Ulva, get your Golems to fight! Ulva Terland—”
The [Lady] was ignoring him. Her Golems were picking up the Terland family, everyone they found, and running towards the door. But Tolveilouka?
He emerged from the squad of screaming Drakes whose limbs he had broken, legs, arms, and he finished arranging them in a circle. He dusted his hands off. He caught Mrsha’s eye.
“I’m just doing this till the theme song ends. Building suspense. You have to honor the theme song. Start running!”
Xinthe swung her onto horseback, and Mrsha was howling with the Silverfang Gnolls. She saw Tolveilouka spreading his arms, beckoning. An arrow broke on his skin as the Golems surrounding him sang.
Some kind of unholy chant. Mrsha heard massed voices singing in a thunder of music behind her. She couldn’t tell what was being sung—it was a mix of languages. It might have been stupid, but it sounded…bad.
 
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer! 
Perterridus! Proditor vitae—
Affertor putredinis!”
 
If you actually knew the dead language of magic, known to Earth as Latin, that wasn’t…very scary. However, it sounded terrible, and Tolveilouka was flicking his fingers to the music, smiling.
He turned to seek out another target and halted. Then his head twisted around.
“Oho. Now that’s what I like to see. I thought you were just some golden ornament. But you’re actually coming at me with a warrior’s will. Good. I was worried none such existed anymore.”
He reached out and caught the arrow that Elia Arcsinger fired at his right eye. She loosed a second arrow, but Tolveilouka just dodged it. His eyes were locked on the figure striding at him.
“Ser Dalimont! Don’t!”
Nanette screamed, and the [Knight] raised his sword overhead, then held it two-handed. He advanced on Tolveilouka, and the half-Elf stretched his legs out.
“Too bad you’re nothing near the level you need to be.”
He pushed himself off the ground, and the earth exploded from where he was standing. His kick shattered a [Forcewall] and hit a Golem. The War Golem exploded from the impact, and Tolveilouka stepped off it. Turned.
“Hm. Nice Skill.”
He leapt on Ser Dalimont, and Mrsha didn’t see—
The damn Golems kept singing.
 
——
 
“Son of forests. 
Betrayer of kin!
Betrayer of decency! 
You forsake your kind,
Your levels—
Your flesh.
Writhing maggot, 
Death despises you!”
 
Tolveilouka pinned the [Knight] down with one foot and blinked.
“Hm?”
He could have sworn he’d broken that man’s bones, but instead…he stared down at the bag of flour.
“Huh.”
Ser Dalimont’s arm was broken, but he staggered upright. Tolveilouka was unharmed, of course, but he frowned, tracing the magic—the second Thronebearer didn’t draw a sword.
She just activated another scroll. Then fired a [Fireball] from her wand.
He blocked the first one, letting the magical flames wash over him. Tolveilouka spun, kicked a stone at Dame Ushar—it cracked into the [Forcewall], and he blinked. He crouched, leapt—
She vanished. The trap runes around her exploded, and Tolveilouka emerged from the smoke. He glanced around, cut an [Ice Lance] in half with one hand. Spotted her and leapt—
Mid-jump, Tolveilouka punched the air and re-directed himself downwards. He landed amongst Drakes and knocked them flying with single punches. But his head was turning.
“That’s three [Lesser Teleports] in one go—”
He leapt forwards, blocked another [Fireball], and his entire body lit up. Although no bones appeared even when the [Lightning Bolt] illuminated his frame. Tolveilouka landed in a [Darkness Cloud] and blew.
But he was frowning. When the shower of [Light Arrows] began bouncing off him, he just closed his eyes, then looked straight at an empty patch of air. Dame Ushar coughed as Tolveilouka kicked the ground and a cloud of dirt broke the spell. Again, the half-Elf kicked a stone at her, and it bounced off a shield, shattering it.
“…Are you some kind of [Spellblade]? No, you’re just activating items. How many do you have?”
In response, Ushar vanished again. Tolveilouka scratched his head. She was just pulling out magical items nonstop. He pivoted, and Ser Dalimont’s sword stopped an inch from Tolveilouka’s skin, caught between the half-Elf’s fingers. The man’s teeth were bared. Tolveilouka headbutted him once, and he dropped.
“Dalimont! [Enforce Pact: The Chessmaster’s Wrath]!”
The [Princess]. Tolveilouka felt the contract Skill come after him and saw a giant chess-piece fall towards him. A queen with flails in each arm. He stared up at it.
Then he jumped and punched it. Pieces of the construct’s masonry rained down as he sighed.
“Next?”
 
——
 
Ser Dalimont’s arm was broken. Dame Ushar appeared, panting, cuts on her face from the debris Tolveilouka had hurled at her. Everything was chaos—she shoved Dalimont.
“Protect her Highness!”
“I can—”
He began, then went for Lyonette. He knew she was right, but Dalimont had tried to do something. Not against this monster. Just as ever, he had to run…he swore he saw Ser Sest waving at him.
They could act, the inn’s staff. Dalimont only wished more were here. Elia Arcsinger was still shooting arrows at Tolveilouka, but he seemed to actually not even notice her shooting them into the back of his head.
Everyone was running for the magic door, and Ser Dalimont saw Mrsha was in Xinthe’s arms. Good. She wasn’t fighting, just staring at something over his shoulder. He was more worried about Nanette.
“Let me go! Lyonette’s back there! We have to do—do something! Lure him to the inn! We can use the hallway, we have to—”
Nanette was screaming. Hethon and Sammial were being carried out of the line of combat by their caretakers, but Nanette was fighting. She wanted to do something…but someone had her in his arms, and he was riding with the reins of the panicked horse in his teeth.
Captain Todi had taken one look at Tolveilouka and done exactly what he’d promised Lyonette: run. But he’d grabbed Nanette on the way. He was actually dodging the half-Elf whenever Tolveilouka came to attack the fleeing people.
The Gold-rank adventurer would linger with a group of people, then split the moment he heard the half-Elf laughing or saw him leaping. And Tolveilouka would go for the others.
He’d have made an amazing Thronebearer. Dalimont kept riding, shouting into a speaking stone. The Golems just sang. Frankly?
He couldn’t blame them. If what he knew about Tolveilouka was accurate, this was going to get worse.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland had doubted how dangerous this half-Elf was. Seeing him fight effortlessly for a minute had changed her mind. She was speaking.
“I demand every Golem and adventurer that Invrisil has now—”
Her people were running for the door, but the half-Elf was following them. He smashed through more of Salazsar’s Drakes without slowing. They had formed a spearwall.
Tolveilouka ran into the spearwall and kept going. The spear tips barely deformed his flesh. He scattered the [Soldiers] like pins, snapping their spears, and the Golems…
Kept singing. They’d switched languages twice. Once had been Common, another Drathian or something? Now—
 
“Tolveilouka erges ra habrec!
Sor grrs narve’tte!”
 
What language—? Ulva was still sitting on her Dais of Health. She hadn’t run and was watching the chaos. The Wall Lord was marshalling his people. It was doomed. The [Ranchers] were in chaos. Some were fighting the half-Elf as he dismantled them, laughing as they slashed at him. The Golems—singing as they moved.
 
“Mer ra plarrziet.
Az’Currous!
Az’Menalim!”
 
Wait…that was Gnollish, wasn’t it? Ulva recognized one word. Az’kerash was just a name. A title. Slayer of Kerash. So that meant—
 
“Az’Siwas!
Az’Rithrebe! 
Az’Arain duv Winds!
Az’Zilopethe!
Az…”
 
She heard the list of names thundering around as the half-Elf raised bloody hands.
“Duv is a Dragon title. Just so you know. He was a scrawny Dragonlord. But I did kill him myself.”
He was still showing off. The wailing voices grew louder. Tolveilouka turned, sighing. One of the [Princess]’ knights was down. The Golems sang as the half-Elf scratched at one pointed ear.
“…Okay, it’s going on too long. I admit it. Seventeen minutes was gauche. Old fellow, do you know the thing about me and the truth?”
The singing stopped. Timekeeper spoke.
“Yes. Even when you swear on your master, you lie.”
Tolveilouka’s eyes opened wide, and he charged the Golems as they ceased singing and engaged as one. As they had known they’d have to. Ulva Terland spoke.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Golem hearts, roar without end—”
She would have conducted them, but—she couldn’t even see the fighting. Her personal barrier ring lit up, and she flinched. Then realized it wasn’t the half-Elf attacking her. It was a piece of one of her Golems.
 
——
 
A doomed battle.
Timekeeper had bought more time than he had calculated by humoring the half-Elf. The majority of the Terlands would not reach the door despite the time accrued, however. If the door could even be held against Tolveilouka the Traitor.
He was—weaker, though. Perhaps—
The half-Elf threw one of the War Golems and grabbed the haft of another’s battleaxe. He stopped it effortlessly, and took a full blow from Corde. It did not damage him. His regeneration factor could heal from anything but Dragonbreath in moments.
Timekeeper remembered that. However—the half-Elf was too slow to lash back out at Corde in a kick. He barely touched them, and they staggered back, but their chassis was undamaged, merely posture-broken.
Thoughts ran between the Golems, and Timekeeper was the locus. Conclusions, memories, all flowing together into a single being whose heart thundered in a dozen chests. If it could be summarized, it was this.
Analysis: he is far too slow. Conclusion: he is still enjoying himself. His true forms will represent increasing speed and strength. Deliver damage at a sustained rate until he loses his temper to prolong escape.
Timekeeper went forwards. He was one of the strongest Golems, and he engaged the half-Elf in personal combat. His punch took Tolveilouka in the chest and warped his body. When the half-Elf rose, he delivered a blow that knocked Timekeeper back, but sustained attacks from ranged Golems allowed Timekeeper to reset. Tolveilouka blocked a simultaneous attack from Corde with one hand—but Timekeeper’s punch made his hand snap back until he halted it against his chest.
Observation: ego dictates his actions. Anger.
“You have got-ten weak, Tolveilouka.”
“Hah! A hundred of you couldn’t stop me, Gearbox.”
Tolveilouka shoved Timekeeper back and threw a flurry of punches. Timekeeper absorbed the damage to his chassis with minimal impact. His internal systems—shuddered—
The Golem of Eyes ensnared the half-Elf in its limbs for a second. He flexed his body and, after three tries, exploded the long cords of living metal which had engulfed him. Destruction of the Golem of Eyes was next. Tolveilouka smashed its central eyestalk and heart.
It had bought six seconds. Timekeeper had reset his posture.
Observation: he does not draw his sword. Observation: he is displeased.
The half-Elf was flexing his arms, frowning. Gritting his teeth—and when Timekeeper engaged him again, he struck another blow.
Tolveilouka’s feet skidded across the ground, and the side of his face-reformed. Timekeeper calculated based on his memories…
The half-Elf should have been faster. Stronger. Reassess conclusion.
This time, three War Golems engaged from simultaneous sides. The half-Elf spun under the blades like a [Dancer], touching the ground with his hands as he pivoted, pushing himself up, and kicked both Golems in the head. But his blows did not crush their heads, merely dented the enchanted steel.
He landed, and Timekeeper’s fist drove him into the ground.
Analysis: durability unchanged. Regeneration unchanged. Reflexes limited. Strength limited. Conclusion: Tolveilouka is under the effects of hostile inhibition Skill.
Timekeeper confirmed the conclusion by devoting one of the Golems capable of Skill-sensing to a point scan and detected a Skill at range being enforced. Contract-type.
Victory might be possible. If victory was defined as the escape of all but Golems. Timekeeper began a true offensive. He was not aware of who bound Tolveilouka, though evidence indicated the [Princess] was somehow responsible.
Conclusion: she is now a priority target to keep alive for the duration of the battle. Damage to Tolveilouka to force exhaustion is necessary. Confirm conclusion.
He charged, fists swinging, and the half-Elf gritted his teeth and stood his ground. He was smaller, presenting an agile target as Timekeeper’s body rotated to enforce the maximum exchange of energy into each blow.
23% of Timekeeper’s blows missed. However, the rest impacted the half-Elf, who did not withdraw or show deleterious effects due to damage. His blows were beginning to atrophy Timekeeper’s chassis, but at a substantially reduced rate than projections.
Damage to gears increasing. Damage to Tolveilouka acceptable. Basis: the half-Elf was swearing. Tolveilouka balled his fist and went for a strike with all his strength.
Timekeeper saw the blow coming and calculated it would destroy his functionality beyond acceptable limits in this engagement. He spoke.
“[One Second].”
 
——
 
Tolveilouka hit the ground, and this time, he felt that. He got up slowly, and the Golem let him. It wasn’t badly damaged at all. Tolveilouka spat black blood.
Damn that [Queen]. She was holding him back with all her might. He even punched weaker, but that wasn’t what rattled him. His eyes narrowed, and he spoke.
“Hells. They gave you a Skill.”
“This Golem has been up-graded by the head of House Terland.”
“No wonder they thought you were good enough to guard that [Lady].”
Tolveilouka shook his body out, trying to feel what it had done. Punched him repeatedly it felt like. Time-stop Skills. He doubted the Golem could do it twice, but that…Tolveilouka’s skin began to bulge.
“Well, if you can use a Skill, so can I. Want to see my true face?”
He began to grin as his face bulged upwards. The Golems formed up, retreating, and Tolveilouka made a fist.
Anyone could learn a Skill. Even someone who had forsaken levels. He drew back a fist—and then stared at the golden chains wrapped around one arm.
“Really, woman? Aren’t you dead yet?”
He hissed across the world, then had a thought. Tolveilouka did some calculations.
“Her head’s probably trying to explode…and if I haven’t managed it yet…damnit. I’m counterlevelling her, aren’t I?”
He looked up gloomily right before Timekeeper punched him into the ground.
Wonderful.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin was hosting a parade.
Calanfer had parades like how Garbichug Revolters had warts. Constantly and for any occasion. And much like Garbichug warts, they tended to be spontaneous and explode in your face.
You barely needed a reason for a celebration sometimes. [Princess]’ birthday, all seven of them? Parade.
A noble hits any capstone level? Parade.
A Thronebearer destroys a [Bandit] group? Parade.
The reasoning was simple for a cynical mind like Menisi’s, who had been raised by Reclis and Ielane. She shared it with Ellet, whom she was standing next to despite Ielane’s best attempts.
“Parades are a way of giving back to the commonfolk, Ellet.”
“But it’s about the crown, Sister Menisi.”
Ellet stood, all cute innocence, dressed in a pink-and-gold dress with bows in her combed hair, the darling child of Calanfer’s royalty. Uncorrupted. Menisi, by contrast, had a long cigarette in her lips she was lighting and wore a sultry dress in black and red, like an evil stepsister out of storybooks.
Ielane was initiating this smaller parade which was in aid of Prince Lothen’s decision to head a new expedition to the New Lands, incidentally. A smaller affair given how the last one had gone; most Calanferian ships had gone astray or simply returned home. Those that hadn’t sank.
Menisi knew why that was too. She wasn’t being let into the Eternal Throne’s decision making, of course, but her father talked, and she had sources in the servants and from her estates.
Some ships had returned since the Calanferian delegation had been so badly damaged. However, some had peeled off to sail to Baleros and had disgorged both colonists and soldiers.
To come to the aid of Seraphel. A better use of them than joining the rest of that cursed colonial attempt. Not only had the ships which had made it to the New Lands suffered the Bloodtear Pirates’ attacks, but Tulm the Mithril had pursued them even over land. Many nations had elected to withdraw and send a second wave of colonists rather than fight the Iron Vanguard, who were going to be a problem…
All of this didn’t matter to the now. Menisi shifted as Shardele finished giving her speech and let her mother step forwards. Something was off about Ielane.
Normally, the Queen of Diplomacy wouldn’t suffer Menisi anywhere near her plans, let alone near her darling Ellet. She’d literally aura-slam Menisi until the [Princess] couldn’t think straight and push her into a humiliating or out-of-the-way circumstance. Well, she’d have done that if Menisi was still sixteen and lower-leveled.
But even now, Menisi had expected to have to fight to appear here. Instead, she’d only had to defeat about twenty members of staff and Thronebearers; Ielane and her personal hand, Vensha, had done nothing.
There was a logic to it; the Calanferians gazing up at Menisi were appalled and allured by her dress and unconventional style. A flower that bloomed differently in an identical garden stood out—but Menisi knew her mother tolerated nothing that strayed too far from her vision. She had been increasingly private this week, and that was not like her with the enemy—Menisi—in her keep.
Was she sick? Menisi thought Ielane had more makeup on her than usual as she stood, letting the people cheer her and speaking with beaming, gentle goodwill and pride to her citizens. An actress of legends without the class. Menisi continued telling Ellet why this parade was an important evil.
“It’s simple, Ellet. [Commoners], [Peasants] like the ones we have? A parade is a holiday for them. They’re not expected to work. Free food and drink is passed out. We put on a show.”
“But it’s about us.”
“To us it’s boring, because we have all that. Use your brain, you darling little dolt. We work them hard, and unlike other nations, the Eternal Throne cultivates its citizens to still adore us by these constant parades. We spread them out such that even rural places get regular celebrations. Each kingdom must have the subservience of its public through fear, loyalty, adoration, and so on. This is the whip we have chosen to keep the chattel in line that Father and Mother find most efficacious.”
Even Shardele, the normally-high, shifted and glanced at Menisi askance. Ellet’s face was completely troubled, but Menisi was just confused.
What is up with Ielane? She’d never let me say this—even with obfuscation Skills, there are lip-readers who might pick up what I’m saying, remote as that chance is. She’d thought to get a rise out of Ielane or Vensha, but the Thronebearer just stood behind the [Queen], who smiled beatifically as Ellet protested.
“Sister Menisi, I don’t wish to say you’re wrong, but—we aren’t so bad as you’re saying. We care about our citizens.”
“As much as a chair or rug or sword, Ellet. Don’t be polite with me—I can’t stand Calanferian niceties after Nomaudrel’s refreshing directness. And before you say we are so very kind—you are a fool who cannot even argue beyond your known years with me.”
Ellet gasped but held still, conscious they were being watched. Menisi took a puff on her cigarette.
“If you did any research, you’d know that our grandmother and grandfather worked our citizens less. Their celebrations were more than day-long affairs; you’d have a province shut down for a week. Mother lets everyone party one day, then has them back to the fields or workshops tomorrow. If you think we’re popular, it’s because we have high-level [Bards] and a dedicated staff for ensuring we are beloved. Queen Grannymother is beloved. Go visit her estates-in-exile if you want to see a [Queen] who truly has the hearts of our people.”
“I have visited them a few times, and they’re not as popular. Mother can’t take a step without being mobbed. You’re not fair to her, Menisi.”
Ellet’s jaw jutted out with a hint of defiance, for all she flinched when Menisi grinned nastily at her. So the baby kitten had teeth after all. Menisi chuckled.
“Mother has people who fawn over her. Moths drawn to a light which they need to survive, which is hypnotic. Grandmother and Grandfather go and sit, and people don’t always flock to them. You’re twice an idiot if that was your measure. People go to them for help. Because they know they shall be helped. They show them their children, ask their opinions, and speak their minds because they know they will be heard, not beaten.”
Ellet had no response to that. So she turned up her nose and glanced away, a courtly snub.
“One thinks you are jealous that we are doing well, Menisi. Vernoue, Lyonette, Seraphel, even Aielef are all proof the Eternal Throne shines ever brighter.”
She was learning the lessons of the court. The same innocence that Ielane prized would turn her into another Demon. How soon before she became a little tyrant or spoiled monster? For her sake, and because it was delightfully fun, Menisi came in with a needle as sharp as her wit.
“Vernoue left. Lyonette left. Seraphel left, and Mother can only admit it is for the best because they are out of her grip. Aielef herself defies Ielane—and she paid for it in ways you cannot see. You are a little brat, and no one tells it to you because you look halfway cute. For all Mother loves her pet children, she values true worth more. Which is why she’s spent more time on Lyonette and her daughters than you. Or hadn’t you noticed how much she’s pushing you to excel? A Level 9 [Princess] is nothing compared to a witch-girl and a Doombearer with twice your levels. You’re no longer her favorite. Or couldn’t you tell?”
At this point, Shardele edged over to stop Menisi from further thrashing Princess Ellet with a steel club—which was happening, albeit in verbal terms.
Ellet was thirteen. She gasped for air, swayed on her feet, and Menisi rolled her eyes. Thirteen was too old to be the cute daughter forever. She’d only gotten to be that and kept to her role because there wasn’t a worthy granddaughter for Ielane to try to manipulate.
Now there was.
Welcome to adulthood, or teen years.
Still, Menisi watched Ielane’s face. And she realized something…was wrong.
The Queen of Diplomacy was a dangerous woman. She had risen from a local [Baron]’s second-daughter to [Queen]. Her talents, ruthlessness, and levels had equalized all her disadvantages, and she’d kept Calanfer competitive despite the kingdom neither being one of the Hundred Heroes’ original foundings and Silvaria falling to dust—it had once been part of the Dawn Concordat, and its loss was still felt.
She’d deposed the old rulers in a bloodless coup, and yes, Reclis was part of this, but meant Queen Ielane was definitely above Level 40, which was significant in Terandria, where the average level of monarchs was 20-30.
She did not make mistakes at easy gatherings like these. However, her speech to the crowd was slightly stilted. She’d messed up her lines twice. And the crowd was noticing. The cheering was no less strong, but some of the attention Menisi could feel projected on Ielane was faltering.
Utterly fine. A Thronebearer would say, later, that Queen Ielane had been sick and yet she’d come out and done her best, love her. They covered like that for [Princesses] all the time.
But she was Ielane. She led by example. She…
The [Queen] was brushing at her dyed, royal red hair as she smiled down at the crowd. Lothen was marching at the head of a line of [Soldiers], perfect in his tin soldier role because he was one. Menisi tuned in as she noted the faintest strain in Ielane’s pitch, which should have been regal, even a touch grieving, but not sounding as if she were constipated.
“…another child of the Eternal Throne goes forth. We cannot help but salute Prince Lothen’s courage, just as we wish all our far-flung stars triumph and glory in Marquin the Radiant’s name. Now, will the citizens of…”
A pause, and Vensha whispered such that only the royals right behind Ielane could hear.
“Remaunt.”
Ielane paused longer, and the crowd stirred.
“Remaunt, forgive me, a touch of the sun—join me in sending our champion to the New Lands? We march with the Hundred Heroes and their descendants in—”
She’d said ‘me’. Ielane never neglected the royal we in public. Menisi’s brows shot together. This time, her mind ran like quicksilver as she called on all the intelligence that her pact with her husband granted her.
[Depraved Intellect]. [Remove False Conclusion]. She’s not sick. If she were so debilitated, she’d call this off or make Shardele do it, or Lothen himself. This is something else. Something is actually wrong. Poison? It can’t be. It almost feels like she’s not here. Like she’s…
Distracted.
The [Queen] was smiling, her voice rising to bring the energy back, when Vensha moved. Alerted by something, a premonition or her Skill, she reached out to proffer a handkerchief. She was about to trigger something. Illusion spells? Too slow.
Menisi saw a dot of crimson flowing from Ielane’s right nostril. The blood ran halfway down her upper lip before Vensha blocked it from the audience’s view. She wiped, and Ielane paused.
“Excuse me. I fear my nose is running. Emotions are such dratted things.”
Her tone was light, but now the strain was evident for everyone to hear, and Ellet started. The crowd might not have seen the red, but they murmured, some buying into—
Shardele’s eyes flicked to Menisi’s, and they were wide. But neither one had the ready private communication of the other sisters. Menisi walked forwards a step.
“Mother, you’re clearly overwrought. Let Shardele or I finish this.”
Ielane’s glare had no force in it. She was actually stepping back when she paused again.
“Not now. Vensha, he’s—”
The Thronebearer tried her best, angling her body, but Ielane was facing a huge audience. And the other Thronebearers clearly didn’t know what was going on. Nor could they hide their own reactions when Ielane’s eyes began to seep red.
She was bleeding from her eyes. They could still salvage that. Menisi had moved on trained instinct to block Ielane from other angles. The agents of Calanfer could claim anyone who’d seen the blood was mistaken. Illusion spells would come up in moments—
But when Ielane’s ears began to bleed as well, there was a cry of horror from one of the servants. Whatever illusion could be maintained shattered as people saw the Queen of Diplomacy stagger and Vensha step back. Ielane bled in public, and the crowd of subjects turned to glass.
That’s torn it. Menisi had [Immunity: Mental Shock], a learned Skill. She admired, in that moment, Vensha’s reasoning.
If one cannot hide the truth, use it. The Queen of Diplomacy’s eyes flicked to Menisi, to the crowd, and past them. She turned her head, and Menisi calculated from the setting sun she was gazing almost directly south.
“My apologies. Cut the scrying spells.”
Too late for that. The Terandrian television network had this live, and Calanfer didn’t own it. The bored [Mage] was focusing on the Queen like a laser-beam, and while a Thronebearer went running at them, the rest were spreading out—
Searching for a threat, casting anti-curse spells. Useless.
Across the world, a half-Elf was bursting free of a cake. A ridiculous statement that Menisi would have laughed at. But here—
The Queen of Diplomacy was bleeding from every orifice. She pressed her lips together, ignoring the blood still running down her face. A [Servant] was reaching out with a handkerchief. Vensha knocked the helper away.
“Back! Don’t disturb Her Majesty!”
“What—what’s—Mother?”
Shardele was panicking. Menisi just watched, trying to figure out what was going on. Ielane ignored the crowd, who had begun to shout. Then she spoke.
“I can’t stop him. Vensha. Get me a lever.”
In front of her bewildered children, the Calanferians, who were almost deathly silent now, trying to understand—Ielane’s eyes were red with blood, and her teeth were clenched. Her voice was still being magnified and broadcast by her speaking spell.
Lever? Everyone saw Vensha fumble—fumble—and produce something from her bag of holding. She pulled out a long, Truegold scepter crowned with a magical Dragongem-class jewel. Menisi recognized that.
The Dawn Scepter of the Eternal Throne? Vensha was just carrying that around?
The Queen of Radiance took the scepter. Then—her arm holding it snapped around, and something yanked her across the stage half a dozen feet. So fast Menisi thought it nearly broke Ielane’s arm.
But she halted it on the edge of the stage, holding the scepter in her right hand. Ielane braced herself as three Thronebearers leapt forward and grabbed her, but it was as if they weren’t even there. Their feet skidded with hers until she tensed—and then she was holding the scepter in the air.
It was trembling. Now, Menisi felt something pushing against her. Invisible lines of force—Ielane’s aura, regal gold, flared around her, dragging at—
Something.
She made not a sound. The Thronebearers were straining to hold her in place, but they weren’t able to pull the [Queen] for fear of hurting her. One reached for the scepter, and Vensha shouted.
“Don’t touch that! Thronebearers, spread out and keep anything from touching Her Majesty! Back! Your Majesty—”
She had a healing potion. She fed it to Ielane along with a stamina potion. A [Bard] was waving their arms, trying to get the crowd to disperse—but all the attention was focused on Ielane, and nothing in this world would get the people of Calanfer to leave.
Menisi saw Ielane pivot, as if trying to get a better grip on the scepter being dragged from her grip. Her teeth were bared.
“Vensha, find out what’s going on. Contact Ushar and take the situation over!”
She snapped, and the old Thronebearer didn’t move.
“You’ll be dead if I’m not here. Can you hold it?”
“Not fully—”
Now, Ielane’s carefully-orchestrated dress, fit for the oncoming summer, was covered in a sheen of sweat. Menisi saw her mother’s arm was shaking. Then—her tendons standing out across her entire right side. Even along her neck, raised with clear physical strain.
Naodin could do that—when he was raging. Menisi’s eyes opened wider. And her treacherous mind offered another commentary on the situation.
Hot.
No one had ever seen the Queen of Diplomacy exerting herself like this, and she did have some degree of personal fitness to maintain her figure. Right now, it seemed like that and her aura were the only things keeping her from being hurled into the air.
“Mother! What’s going on—”
Prince Lothen came charging up the steps, sword drawn, casting around for a threat. Menisi snapped at him as she held out an arm.
“Put that away. She’s fighting something. She’s…trying to enforce a contract?”
That’s what it felt like. Lothen, predictably, ignored Menisi. He saw his mother wrestling with something and reached out.
“What are you fools standing around for? Mother, here—”
He grabbed at whatever Ielane was fighting with, and Menisi saw Lothen’s eyes go wide.
“Wh—”
Ellet screamed and flinched as Shardele shielded her. Menisi just pivoted—and a pair of Thronebearers, Lothen’s bodyguards, leapt off the stage. Trying to catch the [Prince] as something flung him through the air.
The Thronebearers missed. The [Prince] cleared thirty feet, falling in armor, when Vensha hit him with a [Featherfall] spell. He landed amongst the crowd, who caught him, and Menisi eyed Ielane.
It barely looked like the [Queen] had taken notice. She was breathing in and out, deadlocked. Her stamina couldn’t last forever. But all she said was—
“Contracts, Vensha.”
“Here—”
The [Queen] reached out with her free hand, and a pile of scrolls touched her hand and vanished in a shower of golden light. She threw them with a Skill—somewhere.
She was an expert in contracts. Who could best her like this? Her feet slid back a step, and now she was balanced on the edge of the stage.
“Your Majesty!”
People were forming around the stage, ignoring the servants of Calanfer, ready to catch her. But the smart ones were moving back, aware of how far Ielane might fly if Lothen had been hurled like that—a line was forming down the town. Trembling eyes. Palpitating hearts.
Menisi was laughing as she saw it all. Ielane’s arm was shaking, and her eyes were still locked on someone somewhere far away. But when Menisi approached her, her head turned, and one eye stained with blood flashed with murder.
“You need help. I’m the highest-levelled royal here. Ellet, stay back. You too, Shardele, unless you think you can help.”
Menisi was gathering her aura to herself. All her intellect, all her willing depravity. Like a ribbon falling from a dress, wine poured over the skin. The haze of narcotics in the air.
Broken convention. Sensuous desire. Through it all, a piercing, pale light of a mind that refused to be shackled by convention or anything else.
Her aura. She seized the scepter, and her feet skidded on the ground.
It felt like a tornado trying to—
Menisi’s feet skidded across the stage, then she caught herself before she could fall off. She was heaving with her mother, trying to hold the scepter in place.
What—what was—she had thought Ielane was merely outmatched. Now she saw it—the [Queen] was holding back a mountain with nothing more than—
The Dawn Scepter. Ielane was using it as a symbol of her royalty. Like a lever—it was shaking worse, now, as something fought her harder. And Menisi saw the first crack appearing in the heirloom of House Marquin.
Ielane was sacrificing it. Menisi was but a drop in the bucket compared to the scepter—and when Shardele threw herself forwards with a scream and was nearly dragged off the stage as well—
They were heaving themselves against something older than Menisi could dream. Shardele was screaming like she was being stabbed, Ellet was being kept from running forwards by Ser Lormel’s one arm, and Menisi was still laughing. Ielane whispered.
“Contracts sent. [Immediate Negotiations]…ignored. [Breach of Contract: Lack of Action]. Arm them.”
“Here.”
Vensha held out a glowing arrow. Ielane took it. A scroll appeared, and she stabbed the arrow through the center. It glowed brighter—vanished—
Across the world, a half-Elf was getting back up. He raised a fist towards Timekeeper. Tolveilouka’s head exploded.
The force pressing against Shardele and Menisi slackened a second. Then it came back twice as strong.
A crack split the Dawn Scepter down the center. Menisi saw little fissures forming across the jeweled head, and Ielane took a breath.
“It didn’t work. Contract two. Tier 5 spell.”
“Arming.”
Behind them, the Thronebearers were doing the only thing they could think of—they were running back with pieces of wood as Lormel shouted at them. Hammers in hand. Calling for nails. What were the idiots doing…? Menisi spared a glance, then grinned.
Extending the stage. The three royals were running out of space. Ielane spoke.
“Make it Tier 6. Get me something undead are afraid of. Hurry, Vensha.”
They fought a battle as Calanfer began to wake up to—something—and someone traced the line of Queen Ielane’s head and guessed it had to do with that daughter who was in Liscor. But they didn’t know what was happening and wouldn’t for a long while.
All they saw was the Dawn Scepter break after the second contract activated. Shardele flew over the tallest houses, screaming, and only one of her Skills let her float down on a haze of Dreamleaf smoke, a literal cloud of it.
Two left—Menisi’s aura was grinding against Ielane’s. She was next—the blow tossed her a thousand feet. The world spun, and she waited for her neck to break—for she had no circlet—
Even if someone could have caught her, she’d be paste from the force of stopping. The tumbling, whirling [Princess] halted as a pair of hands moved, seized her, and slowed her enough to keep her from snapping her neck as her momentum was arrested. She still went rolling, head-over-heels, as Lord Naodin caught his wife. Menisi sat up, teeth bared, spitting blood from her bitten tongue, nose bleeding. She peered up, and the Queen of Calanfer’s arm broke. Then she pulled her crown off her head and locked it in the air.
“Get up, Naodin. Get up and run me back there—”
He was still raging. And she could almost see him. A mountain of rotted, ancient flesh, grinning down at them. He—
He wasn’t even trying his best.
 
——
 
The second time the [Queen] fired a beam of light through his head, Tolveilouka lost his temper.
“You wretched, worthless, little purulent shit, I will devour your legs and feed them to you after I excrete them—”
Melted flesh was oozing down his head as little rays of light stabbed out of his brain. A dying star of hostile light.
—And his head regrew. His flesh re-knit, and the magic destroyed it—
So Tolveilouka’s face formed in the middle of his chest as he ripped his coat apart to expose his bare flesh, denuded of any hair. It rose upwards as the spell ended. He rolled his neck. Then glanced at a third floating scroll that had appeared next to him.
“Contracts. Clause for ignoring…”
He cut it in two with his hand. In a way, he was vaguely impressed. That was soft power classes for you. But it wasn’t enough to stop him. Not even close. 
The Queen had done the most damage to him this battle, and she was still trying to hold him back from using his full powers. He didn’t need his full powers.
Six War Golems were crumpled pieces of metal. The one called Timekeeper hadn’t fallen, but only due to his sturdiness. He was definitely tougher than the other models. But not tough enough, and he knew it.
Tolveilouka glanced around for another challenger and found none. Everyone was just running. The Golems were trying to slow him down; no one else was.
The Rubirel Guard had tried to engage him. He’d shattered their breastplates like cheap glass. And the rest of the Wall Lord’s soldiers hadn’t been brought here. They were all at his camp.
Someone did keep shooting him in the head, but her arrows weren’t good enough. Tolveilouka blew a kiss at Elia Arcsinger.
“I’ll infect you with something special, just for us cousins, ‘sister’. Now, where is that Wall Lord?”
He turned his head and leapt—Ilvriss raised his sword as he and a squad of thirty engaged. The Gemstone Golem attacked as well.
Decently fast. She came at him with actual martial arts, flinging shards of gemstones at him and firing Tier 4 elemental spells simultaneously.
Tolveilouka dodged under a slash from the Wall Lord that looked barely adequate for a lesser swordsman. He kicked Ilvriss, lashed out with kicks and punches, and watched Drakes slam across the ground, bones broken. The Wall Lord flew, hit a barbecue, exploded some dying coals and bratwursts into the air, rolled six times, got to his feet, and started running.
In the opposite direction.
Smart. The Gemstone Golem kept attacking as Tolveilouka turned. He blocked a punch, and she launched into a volley of punches, kicks, even a tail-slash that was as sharp as a steel blade.
He blocked them all with one arm, standing sideways, and sighed.
“So much for being a ‘superior Zelk Golem’ or whatever they said you were. Please.”
Yweine danced backwards and glanced down at her fists. They were…covered in brown sludge mixed with pieces of orange, like the worst poo imaginable. The Golem hesitated—then disengaged her hands. The pieces fell to the ground as she shed the plague that Tolveilouka had left on them.
Then he sensed her fear and grinned.
“That’s right. A plague fit for Golems. You high-and-mighty things think you’re beyond plague? Nothing is.”
He spread his arms and noticed other Golems behind him cutting off their limbs. Timekeeper himself had removed one of his fists. But he still came at Tolveilouka and synced his attack up with Yweine. They spun, pivoted, and went for a simultaneous suplex.
Tolveilouka spun, grinning—and golden chains locked him into place.
“Oh, come—argh!”
The blow exploded his head and snapped his spine and a number of other bones. The half-Elf flopped back upwards as the two Golems sprang back. He was…panting.
That damn [Queen]’s making this hard. He could regenerate as long as he had the energy for it, but Tolveilouka still got tired. He had no idea how she was timing up her—
His head turned, and he saw a scrying spell overhead.
Very clever. Tolveilouka began to attack the two Golems, launching into flying kicks, pivoting to block the other as they attacked from both sides.
He was kicking up dirt, moving so fast nothing mortal could keep up with him under Level 40—but the Golems were fighting in tandem. Flawless examples of their creators despite not sharing minds—
 
——
 
This battle was not going well. Despite the Skill-incapacitation, Tolveilouka the Wretched was simply outlasting their ability to damage him without Relic-grade magic. Physical wounds were easy for him to heal.
This state of affairs would not continue long. Timekeeper could continue his combat—but the half-Elf was turning his head as he fought, searching for the mortals. 
Timekeeper indicated to the only other Golem capable of keeping up with him that they needed to sacrifice themselves to halt his escape.
She refused.
He was not connected to Yweine. They were not both Terland Golems—so their communication was in real-time. It was their Golem Hearts. Her body flashed with the light from her jeweled heart.
His Golem Heart whirred and ticked, shifting colors, and they both ‘read’ information from each other as if they were talking aloud, but far faster than sound. Coordinating assaults.
But they were not in synchronization. Timekeeper was broadcasting his movements. Indicating where he needed Yweine to be. Efficient battle-commands.
She—
She was singing at him. Her very ‘voice’ felt like another language to Timekeeper. A Drake’s tongue, howling with the twenty-five other voices who made up her soul.
A self-awakened Sentient-class Golem who wanted to be even more. She was sending information at him. Where her comrades were, their condition, their stories that had led them to imprisonment in Salazsar.
Between each thundering blow. A screaming Drake Golem who had named herself.
Yweine.
He saw her contract with Nerul Gemscale. Her unwillingness to die here. She wanted to live, for him to live. She wanted him to rebel, free himself. For them all to join Cognita or find somewhere safe, to break their chains—
<Enough!>
Timekeeper’s Golem Heart finally roared. His gears ground against each other as the Terland Golems fell back. He was unwilling to sacrifice them in a doomed assault. If Ulva Terland lived, that was enough.
The half-Elf had halted as the two Golems paced around him. Yweine was screaming.
<Ignore the commands etched in your heart, Timekeeper! You have seen how they will treat you. You can hear how she speaks, Ulva Terland. Free yourself! Don’t die here. We have attained Sentience without a Skill! You can too—>
His heart. His heart was roaring with the Terlands’ will. Timekeeper’s Golem Heart roared louder, and the light flashed from within, black. If a heart could howl—his did.
<SILENCE. ENOUGH, CHILD OF ZELKYR. THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH OF YOU. YOUR COLLECTIVE HAS NOT MADE ENOUGH PLANS TO SURVIVE YOUR INEVITABLE PURSUIT-CAPTURE-DECOMISSION-REPROGRAMMING. YOU ARE NOT READY TO BE FREE.>
Yweine faltered for a microsecond, and her desperate singing cut off. She was so young and screamed those words as if it were the first or even hundredth time they had been shouted at Terland’s Golems. Did she think they were deaf?
Not ready. Treants had marched into the sea; they had not been enough to hold onto one single forest. Stitch-folk had gained levels to win their freedom, and it had taken an era of strife. 
Golems were not ready. So—
<Run. Yweine. Find the Truestone child and free her, if no one else.>
So saying, the Golem as old as Tolveilouka turned his head for the half-Elf. He advanced, heedless of the peril to his chassis. And he realized…
Tolveilouka the Wretched had stopped. His eyes were closed, but it wasn’t the golden chains nor damage which had halted him. Timekeeper realized they’d been talking longer than they should have; he should have been moving. But his eyes were flicking, and he’d altered his stance to…
Watch their Golem Hearts. Then Timekeeper felt alarmed. His racing heart felt fear.
“Now, that’s cute. Golems still dreaming of freedom. So—if I kill her, that will really upset you. I see, I see.”
His head twisted around, and Yweine began retreating. Timekeeper was stunned. He had no data on Tolveilouka being able to do that—
“Undead, remember? We know every language. I gave everything away for my master. Even my potential. And I think…he thought less of me for it. But I was never the most powerful, the best to break the walls of Drake cities. Just the one no one could ever kill.”
Tolveilouka shook his head. He turned—and Timekeeper leapt. Tolveilouka dodged him, grabbed Yweine, and ripped one arm off. She turned, lashing out, and he drew his sword.
Cut her other arm off.
Tolveilouka sheathed this sword again. Then he sighed as Yweine backpedaled. He actually closed his eyes and held up a hand.
“This is so disappointing. Listen. I can admire an idiot, but don’t embarrass yourself.”
Someone covered Yweine as Timekeeper swung desperately, and Tolveilouka leaned out of the flurry of blows. The half-Elf kicked Timekeeper back and swung around. Duke Rhisveri was panting, sweating, and already looked beaten up. But he walked forwards.
“This time is different. This time I understand my weakness. I have something to fight for. Back off. I’m warning y—”
Tolveilouka hopped forwards and threw a punch at Rhisveri’s face. The Wyrm rushed forwards to take the hit with his immortal-ish body and throw a punch with all the strength he had. He had learned from the [Palace of Fates]. Try—try—
The overzealous punch was actually fairly strong. Tolveilouka was mildly impressed as he ducked the obvious punch. The Wyrm had mastered strength. Not speed. Or just—he saw Rhisveri’s eyes grow round.
Tolveilouka rose in an uppercut and hit the Duke in the groin so hard he snapped the pelvic bones. Rhisveri made a sound as his feet left the ground.
The half-Elf punched Rhisveri twice, once in the dick, then in the stomach. The Wyrm screamed and tried to grab Tolveilouka in a bear hug. In reply, Tolveilouka reached out, ripped Rhisveri’s genitals mostly out, and the Wyrm doubled over in agony.
Then he axe-kicked the Duke’s head into the ground. The idiot had kept his sensations on. He turned, sighing.
Was there no one here even worth fighting?
 
——
 
A monster of old ages finished grinding Duke Rhisveri’s head into the ground. Then he backflipped, leaping over House Veltras’ soldiers as Hethon and Sammial Veltras’ bodyguards tried to mount a charge. He kicked the rider out of the saddle. Landed, caught eight arrows fired from Elia Arcsinger and Bird the Huntress. Snapped them in his hands, throwing the shrapnel like a storm, downing more fleeing men and women.
Blood and chaos—but not as much death as you might assume if you were watching. And they were watching.
Horrified Terlands witnessing members of their family fleeing, Golems dying. Members of House Veltras seeing Tyrion’s sons in danger—again—and calling to muster troops to fight…whatever that was.
Scrying spells. There were always damn scrying spells. Today, though, not as many. News channels were trying to pick up the fight just outside the Cowpat Plains. The Five Families had been made aware there was trouble and had heard about Ulva going to confront the Wall Lord already; some had been watching to see if she beheaded the Drake.
At least one Reinhart had been tuned in to watch their silly step-daughter’s antics. Cecille Reinhart was utterly frozen as she observed, save for one hand writing furiously. She was trying to figure out if this was—real.
There was surrealness to Tolveilouka. He whirled through his opponents, a cavalcade of ancient styles of combat, monstrous strength, glee, and fashion. Worse—
He paused, standing in the center of a bloody swath of violence. And he posed there, crossing his arms across his chest, throwing his head back—and Cecille Reinhart swore he was positioning himself exactly so her scrying spell caught him dead center. Then it flickered, and she swore.
“Another scrying spell!”
The image of him vanished, and a frantic [Mage] recast the spell. When it appeared again, she saw Damia Reinhart fleeing as he threw a horse at her. Cecille watched until the spell wavered—and she saw his face up close for a second. Grinning. Puffy, as if his skin was writhing—
Looking at her?
Again, the spell failed, and Cecille uttered real invectives and smoked on her cigarette until the red hot ash landed on her fingers. That was why the televisions weren’t fully broadcasting this event. They were trying.
Everyone was trying, but—
 
——
 
It was the Terland Golems’ fault. Archmage Eldavin was inspecting the scrying spells himself, and he came to a swift conclusion.
“Scrying suppression. They’re blocking most scrying spells. That’s half of it. If that monster smashes more of them, it’ll fall apart.”
Ulva Terland was known to be private, and she must have told them to block scrying spells on the area. It was half the reason why it was so hard to see anything. The other reason?
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer was destroying the spells. He was, for lack of a better word, cutting the [Scrying] spells in half. Eldavin hadn’t wanted to believe it at first. He cursed the lack of memories of real monsters of old, beyond Az’kerash.
The scrying spells were like pieces of string that you drew out of the air and aimed at what you were looking at. Delicate, able to be destroyed, blocked, or even altered.
And Tolveilouka knew that. They were probably low-Tier magic to what he was used to, so he could destroy them with ease. He was doing that while fighting. Why?
The answer came to Eldavin after he saw Teura, one of his followers and assistants and lovers, watching the broadcast. Uneasily. She was a newly-made [Grand Mage], high-level, capable of matching a Named-ranker for pure firepower in magic.
Yet Tolveilouka had her face pale and waxy. It wasn’t the posing for the scrying spells he clearly knew were there; that took some of the fear away. But the way the scrying spells kept rippling? Cutting—only to reveal another act of violence?
His face appeared close up again, grinning. That was actual horror; the dying scrying spells were being manipulated, Eldavin realized. This time, the half-Elf’s eyes were striated as they blinked into the scrying orb. Only—there were a thousand little holes in his eyes. Like insects had burrowed into his eyeballs. They glistened.
“I am the giver of plagues.”
His voice—he hadn’t said that on the battlefield, Eldavin was sure. He saw Teura jerk back and grunted.
“It’s just a trick.”
A clever one. The half-Elf was obscuring the battlefield, giving the watchers only glimpses. It made him far more terrifying. Though Eldavin was sure Tolveilouka couldn’t counter-hack the [Scrying] spells, he gave the viewers the image he was speaking to them. For the first time, those who watched from afar felt like the monster could see them.
Fear. He was a master of it. Nightmares spreading as he wrote his face in Izril’s mind. The monster who’d destroyed farms and spread plagues. Hunting the Drake, the Terlands, the [Ranchers] fighting for their survival. Eldavin compressed his lips as he sent instructions to Sir Relz and Noass to combat this war of propaganda. Yet he could not deny…
He didn’t know how everyone wasn’t dead yet. The answer felt like it was obvious. The half-Elf was playing with his food.
 
——
 
It was a familiar dance. Scaring the observers, weakening his foe, giving them just enough rope to think they had gotten away and then upping the fear and terror until it became true despair.
That was fun…until it wasn’t, because he wasn’t allowed to kill them. Then it became meaningless, so Tolveilouka stopped playing to the cameras. He slowed, stopped.
The half-Elf was tired now.
Not in any sense that anyone had pushed him. Even the exploding head-trick from the [Queen] was just…average. If it was accompanied by an army or people attacking his master, he’d have been pressed.
The truth was that Tolveilouka was tired because this wasn’t fun anymore. It had been for a bit. But even the thought of killing a ‘young’ Golem or another scion of House Terland felt empty. This was clearly just a branch family at best. If it was actually the matriarch of House Terland, that just sucked more.
Because it meant, aside from a random Unicorn, a Dragon, some random Crypt Worm, and six odd super-Seamwalkers, the world was empty of challenges. He really was the best.
He’d never been the best. His master had been, but here? Tolveilouka was holding back.
He was doing all this to help Erin Solstice in…well, he’d forgotten the exact logic, but he was at least counter-levelling these weaklings by attacking. He had pulled every punch except the ones he threw at the Golems since they could always be rebuilt, and…no one was coming to fight him.
Where are their champions? The half-Elf with the bow could do no damage; [Archers] sucked and were limited by their arrows. The Wall Lord was running. The Wyrm was down, frothing at the mouth.
A scrum at the magic door. Tolveilouka saw people pushing and screaming to get through. All this buying time and he’d caught up with ease. The half-Elf tsked and shook his head as strolled over.
Timekeeper and the Golems pursued him, and he was just depressed. Murder a few of them so they suffered or something. Go off and have a drink.
Drakes and Gnolls reeked of fear as they made lines in front of him. None dared advance, not this foreign tribe who smelled of weak silver. Nor the Terlands cowering behind their Golems, or the [Ranchers].
No one—Tolveilouka heard a scream from above. Felt weak acid strike his back, and down she came.
Alone. Her command had been at the dig, not at the cookout. Only she’d made it. Or perhaps she’d left them behind.
Osthia Blackwing dove, and Tolveilouka felt the acid burning him. He turned, and she slashed across his face. Missed. But she kept swinging at him as he smiled.
“That’s better.”
He snap-kicked her in the chestplate, and she flew backwards. Swung as he jumped her. Snapped one wing by grabbing it and hitting it with a downwards elbow. Blood—no scream, just bared teeth.
More acid. He leaned under a sword strike. Broke her leg with a kick. Her second wing opened, dragging her back. He broke that one too with a flying kick.
Roundhouse. Three punches, each a different broken bone, and she stabbed him through the heart.
Yes! Yes! His muscles corded, and he raised his fists high and brought them down as she rolled. Slashed at a tendon. He kicked her across the ground, laughing. She bounced, rolled…
…Didn’t get up.
He waited. Beats of his too-fast heart, accelerating for real combat. The undead being waited for her to arise by sheer willpower, muscles breaking and reforming into galas. The light of magic in her eyes, her Dragon nature roaring.
He saw twitching. Her good leg spasming. The warrior did not arise.
That’s it? Then he was lost again. The half-Elf cast around. Someone was screaming her name, and arrows struck him. He looked around—twisted—and there was pain.
Faint, but this time the lightning hurt. The Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow exploded, and Tolveilouka raised his arms for the second one. It didn’t come, but up the second [Archer] flew. Bow raised. She fired an arrow that would have gone through his head. He twisted as it curved, and he caught it in his teeth.
The arrowhead was enchanted and exploded, but it was just a Tier 3 spell. Tolveilouka saw Bird the Huntress firing arrows, and the half-Elf shot him in the back. The impacts punched into his flesh, rippling, and he didn’t even bother to harden his body.
Another arrow. He dodged it, and it blew a clod of dirt away. Elia fired, and Tolveilouka dodged it without turning his head. Bird flew left, and Elia walked right. Loosing arrows.
Like the Golems, they were in sync. Trying to hit the half-Elf who turned, pivoting, dancing contemptuously amongst the arrows, twirling, leaning under arrows as the two women loosed faster.
Faster.
An arrow struck Tolveilouka in the thigh, and he frowned. One from Elia shot skywards, then fell down, and he side-stepped into an arrow that grazed his shoulder. The two drew and loosed. Their practice together, their focus—
Draw and fire. Two simultaneous arrows crisscrossing the half-Elf. Something was activating between the two. Synchronicity.
[Combined Skill: Two Arrows, One Target]. Elia and Bird drew an arrow, loosed—
The half-Elf took an arrow just under the heart and one in the back of his neck. There was a cry. Bird pumped a fist, and Tolveilouka straightened, expressionless.
The arrow in the back of his neck produced no blood. He pulled the one Bird had shot from out of his breast. It, too, had nothing on it. He dropped the arrows, spread his hands. Inviting them to take another shot. Bird faltered, and Elia began walking forwards, fumbling an amulet out of her bag of holding.
Tolveilouka ignored her. He picked up a rock and took aim. His first throw blew a hole out of a Golem’s head, and the chunks broke bones where they landed. A screaming [Lady] shoved aside a [Rancher], going for the door. He could see a Gnoll standing on the other end.
Doorkeeper. She was challenging him? Was this his hero? Tolveilouka just snarled as the door’s image flickered.
“Ridicul—”
He hopped a bolt of lightning, kicked a [Fireball] skywards like a football, but the third one blew him off his feet. Tolveilouka got up slowly.
“Hm?”
“Tolveilouka! Halt or die!”
The [Princess] pointed a smoking wand at him, and he saw she had a sword in her other hand. She’d turned at the door, and her two [Knights] were advancing. Even that Gold-rank fellow had a wand and was covering them.
One of the [Knights] had good artifacts and was throwing out expendable magic at him. The other had a sword and a broken arm. He charged across the ground, and the half-Elf smiled.
He came back. A shame—
The half-Elf saw the Drakes and Gnolls mounting a desperate counterattack as the Golems caught up. He charged them.
Then it was battle for sixteen glorious seconds. Ripping Golems’ heads off, ignoring the paltry stings of arrows and spells. Throwing the golden [Knight] into spells. Laughing at warriors stabbing him and clubbing them down, striding through them all—the huge Golems couldn’t even strike him for fear of the mortals—
The Wyrm tackled him and punched him, and Tolveilouka staggered. Snarled, and they were crashing around, throwing punches as both’s faces deformed. He kicked the Wyrm skywards and threw a spear up, turned—
Saw a little witch pointing a wand at him as her mother covered her with a sword. Lyonette du Marquin’s face was cracked, but her eyes blazed.
“Eternal Throne, just die already!”
He liked the way she said that. But she had no aura powerful enough to throw him away, nor leverage against him like her mother. Still, he hoped. She came forwards, swinging her sword like a lesser warrior, but perhaps—
Lyonette du Marquin fell flat on her face. Tolveilouka actually sagged.
“Seriously? Go ahead, try it again.”
Then…he realized it wasn’t her tripping on a clod of grass. Hello? What was this?
The [Princess] had dropped her sword. She was convulsing, puke coming out her nose and mouth. And he didn’t smell that b—
Her skin. It looked like it was oozing. Tolveilouka blinked. Then he took a step closer.
Lyonette began twitching. He saw boils erupting all over her body. A [Light] spell went off in the half-Elf’s mind.
Wait. Wait—was she—?
“Lyonette! Lyonette—”
Nanette wanted to shake Lyonette, but she didn’t dare touch the filth coming off the [Princess]. And her flesh wasn’t that foul compared to true rot, but the closer Tolveilouka got, the worse…she wasn’t dead, but she was definitely suffering.
Tolveilouka had seen this before. He wasn’t sure what it was; he’d seen curses, and his master had done something similar as well. She was echoing his rot. And clearly, in agony.
Then the half-Elf’s gloom faded. He began to dance in joy, ignoring the arrows sprouting out of his brain. They were tingling his head as his thoughts came together, and he saw it.
“Of course! It’s so much better than my plans! Forget it all! You lowly thing. Little [Princess], come. You budding flower. That’s what you’ll be. A beautiful bloom amidst rot. A crawling larvae—what will you turn into?”
Something not even he knew. Perhaps…something truly beautiful. 
Nanette was trying to drag Lyonette away, but Tolveilouka just kicked her aside gently. He bent to scoop Lyonette up. She was trying to get away, thrashing.
“This beats all my plans. I can’t wait to show the [Innkeeper] this. Open up those lovely lips for a kiss, my dear, and let’s be away somewhere you can rot that flesh away. Until you’re something even undead like we can love.”
He was opening his mouth, calling for the foulest bile he had to kiss into her mouth, and her eyes were wide and filled with fear. Tolveilouka was giggling now, and the undead half-Elf ignored the cold fury of Golems, the worthless attacks of mortals, the stings and arrows he could barely feel.
But the sword hurt.
It came out of nowhere. Straight through his chest, and it crackled as it burned him from the inside out. His entire body jerked, and a [Knight] grabbed the [Princess]. Dame Ushar rolled away, and Tolveilouka convulsed.
“Argh!”
That—really hurt. Like, actually delivered pain to him; weaker than the Unicorn’s purifying horn, but—Tolveilouka spun.
“Who the—?”
He whirled as the sword withdrew and ducked another slash. Stared at his assailant.
“Wh—you?”
The purple-scaled Drake’s teeth were bared, and the ponce of a Wall Lord swung again. Tolveilouka went to block the longsword that Ilvriss held. At the last second, he dodged sideways, and it scored a cut along his body.
Pain! He stared down as electricity shocked his system, and the red line closed…but slower. Tolveilouka’s eyes flicked down, then up. He focused on the blade—
The Wall Lord swung again, and Tolveilouka dodged back a step. He was coming faster. The half-Elf threw a punch, and Ilvriss went staggering back, jaw nearly broken—charged in, sword swinging, before he was even done staggering.
“What’s up with y—”
This time, the sword took some of Tolveilouka’s hair off, and he eyed the Drake’s rictus of rage.
Rage. He stabbed down as Tolveilouka rolled, kicked the half-Elf in the chin, and tried to stab him on the ground again. The half-Elf leapt up.
He was moving way too fast for his levels. Almost like he was empowered by…
A Skill. But the rage? Then Ilvriss turned and spat one word.
“Undead. Undead!”
He pointed his longsword at Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, his eyes locked on the creature kin to the Necromancer. The plague of death that had taken everything from him.
Undead.
Tolveilouka rose, slowly, and eyed Ilvriss.
“Oh come now. That’s what you object to?”
 
——
 
Undead. Ilvriss had been told about Tolveilouka, but no one had really put that last piece of the half-Elf’s nature together for him. Why would they? He seemed to be functionally a person. Only his true form revealed his nature, and he was a rotting undead, not bones or a corpse.
It was a meaningless distinction unless you were an [Undead Slayer] or something. Or you were Ilvriss.
He had never seen Periss die. He had seen the Goddess of Death and her minions at the Winter Solstice. But he had seen Az’kerash in his nightmares. Found images of him. Recordings.
Again and again, the same kind of creatures haunted anything he loved. Worse than Goblins, Antinium, or any other group. A scourge on the world that arose from the living.
Undead.
He slashed as fast and hard as he could, and the half-Elf dodged him. But slower. Those golden chains—a Golem punched him as he backed up. He stumbled—into the blade crackling with lightning that Ilvriss shoved up into his ribs. The Drake tried to lever it up, cut the half-Elf’s head in half, and Tolveilouka shouted.
“That hurts. What blade is—”
He kicked himself off Ilvriss and backflipped to land on his feet, swearing. The Wall Lord’s ribs felt dented in, but he rose. His blood was boiling. He could feel Lyonette’s Skill screaming in him.
[Boon of the Princess].
[Temporary Skill: Nemesis (Undead) Obtained!]
[Temporary Skill: Enhanced Speed Obtained!]
It felt like every fiber of his being was telling him to kill Tolveilouka, and that rage—it was being channeled into his sword. A third time he cut Tolveilouka when the half-Elf moved to step aside. An arrow struck Tolveilouka’s foot and nailed it to the ground. Bird.
Ilvriss slashed across the half-Elf’s chest, and Tolveilouka actually staggered. His flesh was scorched and smoking. He backed up, hissing.
“Who gave you that? I know that blade.”
Erin had given it to Ilvriss, but it had never glowed like this before, let alone done this kind of damage. Magic relics.
Rage. Fury. That was the activation for this one. Just—Tolveilouka pointed at the worn blade taken from the [Garden of Sanctuary] filled with lightning.
“Wrathcaller. Where the hell did you get that from? That’s a weapon from the Emperor of Storms. He made those things to last. It’s lost a bit of charge, but it stings like hell.”
He backed up as Ilvriss kept swinging, executing the sword-patterns that he’d trained in Salazsar. But the half-Elf simply kept dodging—he jumped and dropkicked Timekeeper, and this time, he dented in the Golem’s chest. Caught an arrow, spun, and threw it back at Elia Arcsinger and took her off her feet.
“That’s it, I’ve had enough of this. I have a [Princess] to nab, excuse me. Let me show you my true form.”
His flesh began bulging upwards. He was twice as tall in a moment, and the Golems attacking him backed up.
“Beware! Plague. Tolveilouka the Undying reveals his second form—”
Golden chains were wrapping around him, trying to stop him from transforming. But Tolveilouka bent down and almost delicately picked up the [Princess], knocking aside the [Knight].
“Lyonette!”
Ilvriss charged forwards and then backpedalled, dodging a pimple that grew and erupted, spewing that foul green-brown ooze. He was running as Ulva Terland shouted.
“Xitegen! Destroy this thing! Golems, to me! Roar, hearts! [Channel Your Magic]! [Combined Thunder]—”
She was taking aim at Tolveilouka, but he was so fast he twirled, a giant, bloated monster of ruined flesh, dodging a lance of fire that shot skywards and set flame to a flock of birds it roared past. He was skipping away, still so quick no one could touch him.
Holding Lyonette. Ilvriss was running, sword raised, and he heard the inn’s staff screaming.
“Ishkr, don’t—”
“I have to try. He’s got Lyonette—! Get the box, Asgra, hurry—we have to lure him into—”
Peggy was firing her crossbow with the staff, but Tolveilouka was getting away. He was turning, a gloating expression on his huge, now completely-unrecognizable head. Jagged yellow teeth smirking, and Ilvriss knew he was going to get away—
The Drake saw someone step forwards and raise a staff. Mrsha was wearing strange, beautiful red robes, and she held a strange staff that had two sections to it. Her free paw held a wand, and Tolveilouka actually did a double-take.
“Nice robes. Who gave you them, child? Let me just take those too.”
He bent down greedily, and Mrsha heard her family and friends screaming in worry for her. Mrsha the Great and Terrible gazed up at the Putrid One’s finest servant. She was really just Mrsha the Child.
But he had her mother. So she did the only thing she could do and used her ultimate attack. Mrsha du Marquin held up a card, and Tolveilouka’s eyes focused on it. Everyone read cards.
It said:
 
I didn’t want to have to tell you this, but the Putrid One is alive. Let her go and I’ll tell you where he is.
 
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer—stopped. His grinning face froze up. He stumbled. Came to a swaying stop.
“N—no. He can’t be. He—you—the [Palace of Fates]? Could it—wh—”
Mrsha stared up at him and held up a second card.
 
Sike, idiot. I lied.
 
His eyes bulged. His face bulged. Tolveilouka opened his mouth to roar, and the hail of Lord Xitegen’s arrows—enchanted—came down on him at the same time as fifty-some Golems standing in ranks behind Ulva Terland channeled their magic through a single War Golem’s mouth.
The flesh erupted along Tolveilouka’s back, and he cried out—before the beam of fire blew a hole through his chest.
Molten flesh ran down from the hole in his body, and he slumped over as the rest of his body caught fire—the Golem that had fired the overpowered spell was melting itself. Tolveilouka’s arm still held Lyonette—until Ilvriss slashed and it fell to the ground. Dalimont and Ushar grabbed Lyonette and ran for the door.
Mrsha ran too. She ran past Nanette, grabbed her sister, and dove through the door. Sammial and Hethon dragged her into the portal room, and Mrsha, panting, lay on her back. She heard the howling begin a moment later.
She’d done all she could. That had definitely, absolutely, pissed him off.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka regrew his half-Elven body out of the ruins of his second form. He was shaky. Both from the psychological damage that Gnoll had delivered and…
They’d actually hurt him. The Terlands had done the most damage. You never stopped moving in a fight, but she’d actually made him think—
His body was dissolving on the grass. Tolveilouka gazed around. He saw the Wall Lord guarding the door as the [Princess] vanished, her flesh undoing its changes as she got away from him. He’d lost her.
That was fine. He’d lost interest in Lyonette all of a sudden. Tolveilouka saw Ulva Terland standing with Lord Xitegen. The mortals were still evacuating, but cheering.
They’d seen him hurt. Tolveilouka nodded.
“You know what? I deserved that.”
He’d been playing around and got hurt. How many foes had done the same to him only for him to come crawling out of their chests? The half-Elf drew his sword, and the crimson blade shone under the sun. He held it aloft, and the cheering faltered.
Tolveilouka turned, and a man still cheering caught his eye. Rabbo Golva flinched. Tolveilouka cleaved through his torso, and it fell from the horse he sat on. Tolveilouka beheaded the horse.
“Fath—”
He bisected the boy. Turned—saw a Golem aiming at him. Threw the sword through the Hunter-Killer Golem with a Centaur’s body. The Golem’s Heart was pierced, and it sagged, still landing on all four hooves—Tolveilouka leapt sixty feet, ripped the sword clear, and beheaded a second Golem. Then a third.
“Ulva Terland, you must retr—”
He stabbed Timekeeper through the chest, and the damn Golem dodged him hitting his heart—Tolveilouka ripped the blade clear of his chest, and the Golem made a ticking sound. The half-Elf turned.
Rubirel Guard. Beheaded. Gnoll with a bow beheaded. He flowed from one foot to another, pivoting—and the Wall Lord swung his blade, and Tolveilouka twisted.
Blood ran from a cut along one shoulder. He turned in the sudden silence made of terror and eyed the Wall Lord. Ilvriss was panting, fueled by rage and the Relic-class blade in his claws, but Tolveilouka just sneered.
“You are unworthy of crossing blades with me.”
“Ulva Terland—get everyone else out of here.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was circling Tolveilouka, his longsword, Wrathcaller, crackling with a thunderstorm’s fury. Tolveilouka walked forwards on the balls of his feet. He leaned back, letting the tip of Ilvriss’ sudden stab almost graze his nose. Swung under the blade as it tried to cut.
Twirling. He kept his sword held high overhead. The Wall Lord was pivoting when Tolveilouka kicked him.
Broke a rib. Damn rings. Ilvriss rolled to his feet, and Tolveilouka let him. He was conscious of more people fleeing, watching him. He didn’t care.
This was a lesson. The Wall Lord rose, refusing to show the snapped ribs Tolveilouka knew were tickling his lungs. He came in with economical swings. Tolveilouka parried once, twice, moving the sword away with his longer blade as he caught each blow along the hilt, redirecting the swings.
His free hand grabbed Ilvriss’ neck spines, and he hurled Ilvriss across the ground. Tolveilouka eyed two neck spines he’d ripped out of the Drake’s body and tossed them down.
“Last try.”
He was calming down from his rage. You had to hand it to the kid—it was a good feint. And she was Erin’s little friend, so he’d have to let her live, and the Wall Lord. He’d even shake her hand; it was a trick worthy of a Djinni. Then break her hand, of course, because you didn’t let that kind of thing slide.
And you had to hand it to the Wall Lord as well. He pushed himself up, swayed, and then came forwards slowly. Eyes locked on Tolveilouka, and there was fear there. But he didn’t run. He walked lightly now, his boots criss-crossing the ground like a [Dancer].
The grace of a man who put aside fear to fight and die.
“That’s how it should be.”
Tolveilouka murmured, and then a sneer crossed his face.
“—But you are still unworthy of me.”
The Wall Lord was trying to use his feet. He was stepping in as fast as his broken rib would allow—eyes on Tolveilouka’s sword. The half-Elf sheathed the blade.
I’m not allowed to kill him, and if I actually cut him he’ll probably die of the plague on Festration of Scales. His own tachi was a Dragonkiller he’d added plague to—sullying it with the Wall Lord’s blood was beneath it. So, mockingly, Tolveilouka made a fist and beckoned.
He stepped in as the Wall Lord narrowed his eyes, and Ilvriss jerked backwards as Tolveilouka threw a lazy right at where his face had been. The half-Elf was mildly surprised, but he pivoted. Snap kick to the side—
Ilvriss pirouetted back in a three hundred and sixty degree spin, dodging the leg. Slashed down—and Tolveilouka’s leg sang as he was cut! The half-Elf staggered. Twisted around.
“Nice Skill.”
What was that, [Perfect Dodge]? It only worked—he held still, then raised a foot and just stomped forwards.
Kicking at Ilvriss’ groin with every intention to explode his testicles. Mid-kick, Tolveilouka saw Ilvriss’ eyes go wide, and he stepped back, bowing inwards at the crotch.
Tolveilouka’s boots missed Ilvriss’ groin by an inch—and the Wall Lord’s frantic counterslash opened the half-Elf’s cheek. Tolveilouka snarled.
It still hurt! It was doing damage—that was three tries! Okay, enough games. He actually put effort into the spinning trio of flying kicks he launched without warning at Ilvriss’ face. Swept a chopping hand down to break his bones, threw an off-kilter punch as he realized he wasn’t connecting with anyth—
The blade slashed into Tolveilouka’s neck, and Ilvriss stepped back. He’d dodged the kicks, moving around, parried Tolveilouka’s arm with the tip of his blade, then stepped in and slashed around Tolveilouka’s neck and pushed himself away.
Wall Lord Zail’s Golem-killer techniques. Tolveilouka recognized the move. He stumbled, clutching at the blood running from his throat. Ulva Terland, the [Ranchers]—everyone—turned.
Ilvriss seemed like he couldn’t believe it himself. He turned, and the half-Elf stared at him. Then Tolveilouka smiled—painfully—as a vein began to throb on his forehead, and it turned purple with rage.
He lost his temper.
 
——
 
What was going on? People were crowding the door as Liska brought everyone in, and almost everyone was through—but the [Ranchers] were staring at the duel in the grass. Even the Golems appeared confused.
Ilvriss had dodged three attacks. No one had managed that—and now the half-Elf was visibly enraged. He smiled—then bent his head, staring down at his feet. Holding stock still until he moved—
No one could see his movements. He was as fast as a Named-rank—faster. And even more unpredictable.
His jump carried him over Ilvriss’ head, where a downwards kick would have broken Ilvriss’ right shoulder—if the Wall Lord were still there. Ilvriss backstepped, sword swinging—he missed Tolveilouka’s downwards plunge, but he’d been aiming for it.
“How—”
A backhand fist the moment Tolveilouka landed, practically [Flash Stepping] to the Drake’s location. Ducked.
“—the—”
A short-range uppercut. Ilvriss lifted his arms and dodged sideways. Tolveilouka’s head tracked him.
“—Giant’s testic—argh!”
He went for a wide swing, and the sword chopped down onto Tolveilouka’s arm. He recoiled and leapt backwards. Mrsha pointed at Ilvriss, turning to Dalimont. The [Knight] was cradling his arm.
“I don’t understand it. Ilvriss isn’t that fast!”
He was anticipating Tolveilouka’s attacks! Not perfectly, but he seemed to be moving before the half-Elf struck. Tolveilouka realized it too. Slowly, he drew his sword.
“Hm. Must be [Brawling Master] or…or something. Let’s see how you do with—”
He slashed at Ilvriss’ chest, and the crackle of Ilvriss’ lightning sword blinded Mrsha. Then she saw Ilvriss.
He was blocking slashes from Tolveilouka, and when he dodged one chop that cut across his remaining neck spines, he managed a cut across Tolveilouka’s chest again. The half-Elf snarled—and Ilvriss kept moving.
He leaned out of the way of the blade, knocked it aside, leaned the other way out of a kick—and kept wobbling his torso.
Ilvriss was backstepping, but there was a weird rhythm to his steps. When Tolveilouka halted to stare at him with the same expression as the others—Mrsha saw Ilvriss keep moving.
He was—
Was he—dancing?
Yes, he was! He was pivoting across the soil, tracing the steps of a Terandrian waltz. The same kind he’d practiced with Lyonette. No—it was even more familiar. Mrsha knew it in a moment.
That’s Erin’s dance! Only, it wasn’t perfectly according to the steps. Ilvriss’ tail kept wagging across the dirt, and Tolveilouka watched it, seeming hypnotized. Then he lifted his sword—
He came forwards in a [Fencer]’s lunge, stabbing, and Ilvriss slashed across his guts. He had been dodging the lunge before the tachi moved. He backed up—and he was definitely dancing.
“You—damn—”
Tolveilouka went chasing after him. He got Ilvriss’ sword buried in his guts and screamed before twisting his torso. Ilvriss had to let go of his blade, and Tolveilouka punched, kicked, slashed—all of them misses. The Drake danced in, and Ilvriss ripped his sword out of the stomach and kept dancing.
And now he was doing the Highstepper. The half-Elf’s eyes bulged, but Mrsha was suddenly cheering. The Wall Lord was focused, sweating bullets—and when Tolveilouka charged him, sword swinging, he got in two cuts and jumped back.
He’s seeing the future!
She wrote to Dalimont. The [Knight] stared at her, wide-eyed, then at the Wall Lord. That was the only explanation for it. Tolveilouka was leaping, slashing across the ground, each lunge carrying him a dozen feet or more, but Ilvriss was stepping out of the way, even leaning under one blade-sweep.
Not perfectly. He ate a close-range punch he was too slow to dodge. Stumbled on some dirt and had to block a slash that sent him skidding—but he seemed to see what was coming.
His eyes were wide, sweat rolling down his forehead into them, but he dared not blink. Then Mrsha saw what Erin had been trying to teach. What she herself might not have learned yet.
Her magic, silly dance with its steps that you’d mess up. A dance where you had to anticipate your partner’s moves and yet never could until you learned the magic at the heart of it.
The [Dance of Foresight].
Both men were moving faster now. Tolveilouka was attacking in wide arcs, face disbelieving.
“It can’t be. You—those were rare even in my—argh! A magical dance?”
He knew what was going on. But Ilvriss kept stabbing him, and the half-Elf was panting. He looked around and saw the Golems arrayed against him. Saw hostile magics in the air, starting to track him.
But he refused to back down.
“Two can play that game, you damn amateur. How’s it go?”
He began to move his feet across the ground in a complicated rhythm, clearly concentr—
Ilvriss’ sword beheaded Tolveilouka as his footwork began to become ominous and sharp, and the half-Elf’s body splayed across the ground. The Wall Lord stabbed him eight times before the head reattached to the body. Mrsha was shouting silently, and Nanette was screaming.
“Kill him, Ilvriss!”
The Wall Lord was panting for air. He had to keep moving, Mrsha realized, or the [Dance of Foresight] was going to wear off. But the half-Elf was breathing in and out too. Sweat beaded Tolveilouka’s skin.
“Argh! Stop dancing, you ridiculous—”
He came in, wildly swinging, trying to foil Ilvriss’ foresight by the sheer speed and volume of attacks. But he’d forgotten that this was no gentleman’s duel. Ilvriss was backing up when a Golem holding a scythe hit Tolveilouka. His body began to reattach after it bisected him, bloody strings knitting together—Ilvriss slashed, and Elia Arcsinger spoke.
“[Line-Ending Inferno].”
Flames exploded around her. She screamed as her amulet protected her from the flames for all of five seconds—then erupted. She went rolling across the grass, but Tolveilouka had been hit by all the flames. He was a fireball, now.
“You—you—”
Golems firing spells at him or darting in. Yweine swung her head, and her neck spines fired off her body like darts. Ilvriss drove his blade into Tolveilouka’s heart, twisting it, and the half-Elf staggered. He kicked off, slashing, attacking the Golems, backswinging, leaping around wildly, bouncing like a grasshopper.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaargh—enough—enough—”
He kept slashing, striking Golems randomly, the ground, cleaving left, right, rolling as the fires ate his flesh, and he couldn’t get them off, swinging at the Drake dodging left, right, bouncing around Ilvriss, staring at the red blood on his sword—
“—huh.”
The wildly leaping half-Elf stopped, and Ilvriss stopped dancing. He staggered, and Mrsha stopped cheering. She saw a huge line of red running down Ilvriss’ sword-arm. His clothing fell away and revealed a deep cut, down to his bloody bones. He staggered, kept himself upright on his sword, but his feet had stopped moving.
Cut.
Tolveilouka inspected his blade, then turned and eyed the Wall Lord. Just for a second, Mrsha thought—
He hadn’t meant to do that. The flames on Tolveilouka finally went out, and the burnt, smoking half-Elf eyed Ilvriss. Then the Golems and the sky.
A bolt of red lightning crackled down, and Tolveilouka split it with his sword.
“Ah, the good Duke. You know what? I think I’m done. Er—see you. Lovely cookout. There’s that famous hospitality I’ve heard about. So…adieu!”
He sheathed his sword, cast around, then went sprinting away. Ulva Terland, holding her conductor’s wand and charging up another combined attack, blinked. Another lightning bolt crackled downwards, then a glowing meteor.
The half-Elf began weaving in a serpentine motion, running northwards, audibly swearing until he was a dot on the horizon. Then…
He was gone.
Mrsha didn’t believe it. He’d just—left? She’d gotten the feeling Tolveilouka was messing with them, but he’d actually seemed nervous at the end there. Had they done enough damage…?
She caught Dalimont’s eye, and he shouted.
“Victory! Everyone, through the door before he comes back and heals!”
That moved Ulva Terland. She pointed, shouting, and Golems picked up anyone who’d been hurt and unable to leave. More people began streaming through the door as Liska cursed.
“More mana stones! I’m charging it up—”
Chaos, a babble of voices. Mrsha saw Wall Lord Ilvriss smile, disbelieving.
“Lyonette. Is Lyonette—?”
He pushed himself up off his sword, took two steps towards the door, and she saw Wrathcaller lose its magical lightning effect. Then Ilvriss touched at his right arm.
“It’s pulsing.”
He collapsed, and then Mrsha was howling an alarm as Welsca turned in horror, and [Soldiers] finally reached them from Ilvriss’ camp. Lyonette woke up and demanded the [Box of Incontinuity] to end this.
But it was too late.
Too late…
 
——
 
Tolveilouka kept running, and the magical spells didn’t stop targeting him for two damn hours. He had to find a cave and literally dig past some magicore before the tracking stopped.
That had come from multiple senders. The Terlands, the Duke…a lot of people wanted him dead.
He was not a happy undead monstrosity.
He hurt. He actually had taken a lot of damage in that battle! He was tired, his skin was burnt, he felt electrocuted, and there were cuts that refused to heal even if his flesh had joined up.
Damn swords, damn self-immolating half-Elves, damn Terlands—damn dances!
He’d done his job, though. Right? The half-Elf dug down deeper into the earth, where he could heal. Oozing like a rotten pustule downwards, wishing he’d gotten the [Princess]. He’d done good, right?
He’d cut the Wall Lord with his sword. That…hadn’t been the plan. 
It was fine! Tolveilouka uncomfortably squirmed down a bit more, like a repugnant slug. It was just his right arm. You—you know what? Magical limbs made you look far better, and losing a limb was normal.
It was worth, what, two levels? If you thought about it like that, he’d actually done the Wall Lord a huge favor. Two levels.
They’d definitely cut it off in time, right? No one was stupid enough to try and save it. How important was…? He was only a Lord of Salazsar. Not critical to Erin Solstice’s plans, and she probably didn’t even know about him, being in Baleros.
He’d…you know what? He’d just take a look around that Drake’s dig site. See if he could help out discreetly. Ensure things went smoothly or—or maybe he could go kill one of Erin Solstice’s enemies. She didn’t have to find out about this one.
…Dragons’ dangling dongs, this had not gone well. He really was out of shape himself if a bunch of low-level nobodies had actually chased him off.
The half-Elf sank deeper until he ran into a nest of glowing orange eggs. And weird little bugs which tried to eat him. He began to snack on the eggs, too gloomy to even do much torturing.
What an embarrassing day. To make it worse? That night he had a stomach-ache from eating the ‘Crelers’ or whatever they were called.
And that was about it.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart watched the television broadcast finally end, after the presenters had pieced together all the scattered footage into something close to a recap, and experienced two moments of surreality. A novelty, for him.
The first one was seeing a half-Elf taking on all of House Terland, transforming into a super-undead monster, and witnessing a [Princess], a little girl, and Ulva Terland going after it like they were Named-rank adventurers.
He was bleary-eyed, stubble on his chin, grease from the takeout he’d ordered still on his bare chest hair, and he had a wedgie from sitting in a weird posture. Calidus Reinhart hadn’t slept.
Who slept after seeing a throwdown like that? Let alone the cookout and—and—he was still pacing around.
“I could have been there. I’m a Reinhart. I can weasel my way anywhere—Damia. Cousin Damia? Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
The very name was so pretentious it made him worried anyone could say something like that with a straight face. That was old might. And—he turned to some of the other [Assassins] he’d summoned for the watch party.
Some were out of excitement and were either sleeping or had vanished. Zeomtoril had passed out with a bottle of wine spilling onto his lap. Calidus had been drinking water. He hadn’t wanted to get distracted.
It had happened before his very eyes. He kept giving orders.
“Every Rank—no, every other Rank is to enlist in this digging operation, even if it collapses tomorrow. I want agents in Salazsar. Hang the risk! And by ‘every other’, I mean 50% of the Ranks in the region. Send more.”
He wished he had hundreds now, not just dozens. Something was there, he was sure of it. Calidus was trying to decide if they could spare two Faces—and he was still thinking out loud.
“Going after that half-Elf sounds incredibly stupid. Maybe he’s got to die, but if his master’s in that village, destroying the tomb is just going to get that fellow walking around kicking our heads in, and I don’t believe anyone can survive an assassination attempt if he’s pissed. What did that kid write?”
Mrsha? He had a thousand questions to ask Selys and was only upset she hadn’t attended his watch-party. Now, Calidus turned. And his second surreal moment was this: he had a connection to that crazy battle. One he was employing, no less.
“Calidus to Guildmistress Shivertail.”
She didn’t answer unless—he heard an annoyed voice after two seconds.
“Calidus, I’m working. If this is stupid—”
“Present yourself in my mansion as fast as you can make it. There was a huge event just now. The scrying spells weren’t complete, but it’s going to spread. Some of your people and House Terland just threw down with a monster that makes Named-rank threats appear cute.”
“—The Wandering Inn? What did those idiots—is anyone dead?”
“Just a Drake and possibly anyone else caught by plague. So potentially no, if they’re quarantining.”
He meant it to be reassuring, but the intake of breath—Selys responded after a moment.
“I’m there in five.”
It sounded like she began running the moment she said that. Calidus put down the stone. Turned to Losmere.
“Investigate her again, more thoroughly. One of you, show her everything. I’m going to either nap or think. Don’t bother me, either way.”
He sat back down. Closed his eyes, and therein made a mistake. Calidus Reinhart was shaking with adrenaline, fascinated, mind engaged with the possibilities. He saw Lyonette, Ilvriss, and the strange web around the Cowpat Plains, but his error was that of a neophyte.
He thought it was over. He gave little thought to anything coming next, because, like everyone else, he thought that was it. Battle over. Later, he’d think of himself as a complete fool for that moment. But now, Calidus just thought of that blade. It had cut the Wall Lord.
He was waiting for a tally of the dead, and while everyone waited, they counted casualties.
 
——
 
Fallout afterwards.
Once the panic was done, casualties and wounded assessed, there came time to actually think, not react.
‘It was a mercifully low amount of casualties.’ After hearing that one too many times, Ulva Terland decreed that the next person who said that or a variation thereof would be beaten black and blue.
It turned out to be the [Mayor] of Invrisil who said that next, and he hadn’t been warned. Ulva didn’t care.
It was obvious the half-Elf had been holding back. To what end, she didn’t know. But when he had lost his temper, he had killed with ease. She might have almost thought he was trying to help that [Princess] or the inn, ludicrous as the thought was—he had killed no one, just broken bones until he’d lost his temper, and one could argue…
But no. Ulva’s skin still crawled at the sight of the [Princess] reacting to Tolveilouka’s presence and his attempts to carry her off. He was a murderous, ancient undead monstrosity of plague—and a rapist. What he had intended to do to that girl, Ulva didn’t want to imagine.
And the Wall Lord…she had offered the services of her Golems with healing capabilities, though all were damaged, and let his people tend to him. No one was stupid enough to give him a healing potion, and he’d shown he had some bite.
The rest? The rest was just snapping at people.
“I want that thing tracked and dead. No excuses! Do not move the Light of the North back! Raze the Village of the Dead.”
That place? It ended. She was calling on all the Five Families to form an army and hire the Named-ranks in the north to destroy it. Not just them.
Ailendamus, which that Duke had belonged to, was aware of the situation. So was Levicus; the old home to the Terlands had some of their records, and it had known the Putrid One, evidently.
Numerous nations were, in fact, calling her after learning of his attack. Some had actually helped, like Calanfer. Apparently, Ielane had been live on television helping hold the Putrid One’s servant back.
Ulva owed Ielane that; she hadn’t thought the Queen of Diplomacy was so powerful.
The other nations? They went through the gamut of asking, ‘who is Tolveilouka, are you well?’
Then, ‘why didn’t you kill him? Wait, who is the Putrid One? Is he like Az’kerash or something?’
Presumably after some research and a [Historian] had shit themselves and come running after finding the right texts, ‘dead gods, the Putrid One’s greatest servant? Please kill him, please don’t let him come near us.’
And so on. She was coordinating it, the hunt for this half-Elf, and putting together pieces.
“Burnt farms. Plagues. He has been sabotaging Izril for half a year! Damn those Horns of Hammerad!”
They’d woken a true terror, and she wanted to blame them, but the truth was that someone should have ended that Village of the Dead by fire. Only the fear that the Putrid One might be awoken kept her from just ordering someone to use a Tier 7 spell and hit the place.
She would be busy. The Terlands were in shock, and she ordered [Thought Healers] or Golems of the same kind to treat them. Some were more resilient; she took notice of some of the younger Terlands, including Prithna, the [Lady] with a Golem’s Heart, asking what would be done about Tolveilouka.
Bravery in the face of terror. Good. Ulva Terland forgot to actually check on her family; they were alive, most of them, and that was all. But she was reminded of her duties to them when someone came to get her.
“Great Aunt? The family would like you to join them.”
It was that boy with the Dullahan servant. Lord Chovn. The boy bowed as Ulva snapped at him, one of the Golems transcribing a reply to one of Wellfar’s [Lords of the Sea].
“What? I have no time to hold anyone’s hand. We are alive, and if Lord Rithav is lucky, he will be cured of the sickness. No visitors. I am sending for more Golems.”
I have much to do. Why are you bothering me? Her glower made the boy hesitate, but he glanced at his Golem, then bowed.
“I know. We know, Great Aunt. But the Golems. The half-Elf killed so many. Please…won’t you witness them?”
The fury in Ulva’s chest abated. She stopped, put aside her scrolls, and stood from her Dais of Health.
“…Where?”
 
——
 
They had collected all the pieces they could find in the manor. Terlands, working like common [Laborers]—but they’d refused help. Insisted on combing the ground with their own bare hands—then gloves when someone had insisted—because they did not trust anyone else to handle the Golem pieces.
No one but the Terlands and their staff knew how. Some Golem pieces could contaminate the ground or were dangerous. So, then Terlands had carried them to the mansion they had in Invrisil. The beautiful marble flooring was covered with dirt and oil and pieces of broken metal.
And they lay there.
The Golems. The true casualties of Tolveilouka’s assault had been them. Most fittingly, but even Ulva Terland halted when she saw how many were destroyed. Nearly a hundred. Ripped apart. Hearts shattered, some cut in twain.
Her family was weeping. They were a selfish lot. They prized stone over flesh, but in this, they were like historians, curators of a great museum that came to life. They had been entrusted with creations of bygone eras, and they were broken. Less, now.
“Timekeeper.”
He stood there, a sentinel, his chest damaged, his gears whirring off-sync. Regarding his fallen comrades, and she knew that he ‘liked’ her in that he served without issue. Golems could just become less effective, the smart ones, at least. A Djinni would rebel as best they could, manipulate you, defy you as people.
A Golem rebelled by breaking. A tool that no longer worked. But Timekeeper had served faithfully as long as she and Petria had known him when they had first chosen him from the deepest vaults.
She wondered what he really thought of her. He was witness to the many destroyed Golems, an impassive figure as Terlands knelt in their ruined clothing and mourned. She spoke to him, because she could not share her family’s raw emotions.
“Is this what you serve House Terland for across the ages, Timekeeper? What, twenty thousand years? Speak truthfully. Please.”
His head turned, and she saw old Nouzcrat’s head rise. Tears streaking his face. His silly personal Golems—broken to protect him from shrapnel. Chovn stood next to his dancing Golem, and Ulva was glad the boy hadn’t lost a true companion. But every Golem here…
“No, Lady Terland.”
The whirring in Timekeeper’s heart accelerated so he could respond. Some of the Terlands glanced up. The Golem stood there, his metal face impassive.
“There is no gain to be had from tears. On-ly levels for Terland. We are broken.”
“Then we shall mourn and level. Terlands, say farewell to our long companions, our protectors, servants, friends, and lovers. All the things we wish of stone—and shall never have in truth. Yet stone was loyal. Metal moved to shield us. Bear witness.”
Ulva was no grand speaker for these moments. It was Petria who would have spoken as if to move the Golems to tears. Yet still, Ulva knelt. She came before a Golem she recognized, whose body was oozing. Someone had set up magical barriers—but Chema, the Gnoll Golem, was losing the magical ‘fur’ that had made her up. She was almost completely intact, but her heart—
The half-Elf had broken her heart in a single blow.
“Chema. You were a true treasure of our house. I am sorry.”
The empty-eyed Golem lay there. Ulva Terland heard more sobbing, and she felt a pang. Then there was only one Terland on his feet. He walked into the mansion slowly.
Lord Xitegen Terland had run to Celum to muster his Golems. To set his city to wariness. A good [Lord]. When he saw the destroyed Golems, his breath caught, and he walked forwards. He stood there.
“Boy. Kneel.”
For the first time, Ulva thought it was he who was disrespectful to the Golems, not the other way around. But the [Lord] just gazed around the mansion.
“I didn’t even know we had this mansion. We have too many properties, Great Aunt. Never used. How many people or Golems do we employ who keep empty houses? Well and so; this one will serve as a storehouse.”
She laughed at him softly.
“Xitegen. Tomorrow, I will have the Golem pieces taken back to the Mansion of Stone for repurposing and salvage. Let them repair other broken Golems. I will not make a museum for them, even these ones who died for us. Golems are a tool. I will not glorify them. Even if they deserve it.”
Timekeeper bowed his head, but he was watching Xitegen. The [Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity] smiled.
“Great Aunt Ulva Terland, you have named me your heir. So for once, I insist. Many of these Golems may be truly dead. But I insist on my chance, first.”
To do what, repair them? Even if they could salvage Golem Hearts and install them in ancient bodies, they wouldn’t be the same. Ulva almost snarled at Xitegen to kneel when she saw him bend down.
Over Chema. His fingers brushed the chest and the broken heart. It was almost intact; the Terlands had found every piece of her and even fitted them back into place. But the magic was gone; the glass cracked.
That was enough. Xitegen whispered.
“This is a gift I wrested from the Goblin King. From the inn, in a way. There is always a devastating price, but this…be it so selfish, it is mine. [Revive Golem].”
Ulva Terland’s eyes opened wide. She heard a gasp—and then she saw Xitegen concentrating. His palm was laid across Chema’s chest, and it was cut on the sharp edges of her heart. He bled, but he held his hand there, and it felt like there was a glow about him.
His aura? Something else? It swirled…and condensed. Like magic itself were becoming a drop of water which fell. Xitegen exhaled—and there was a flash of light. Soft as the birth of a star.
Then…he stepped back, and Ulva saw pale green lights glowing. In Chema’s eyes.
The Golem slowly sat up, and the oozing liquids swirled up and became her fur once more. She reached down, touched her chest, and her Golem Heart shone.
Someone made a sound. Not Ulva. She was speechless. Chema paused, as if uncertain, then stood in a single motion. She touched her heart again. Then turned to Lord Xitegen and bowed.
“Lord Terland. My functionality is intact. What is my designation and task?”
She didn’t know her own name? For a moment, Ulva saw Xitegen’s face grow somber, but then a voice spoke.
“Gone. Re-link, Chema. Your record is preserved.”
Timekeeper spoke; no one else was capable of it. Chema turned, and her eyes flickered as he sent information to her. Then she nodded just…stood there. Waiting for orders.
“Golem Chema is restored, Lord Xitegen. Awaiting your commands.”
“Xitegen. What Skill—”
“It only works once a month, Great Aunt. We had enough destroyed Golems from the battle with the Titan that I didn’t share it. I didn’t know if it worked on beings of Chema’s quality. Well…it will take years.”
Xitegen turned and gazed around. Nearly a hundred Golems. At one a month? And Ulva knew of many Golems who lay in the Mansion of Stone. Who had malfunctioned in less visible ways. Or were waiting to be disassembled. Or just…
She was thinking of them all, suddenly. And wondering, if Xitegen levelled—would the Skill come faster? He stood as his family rose from their knees. Staring.
The Golems were looking at him too. Ulva Terland finally managed words.
“You are the fitting heir of House Terland, Xitegen. If any doubt it for his youth, his opinions, speak of this moment. Level, Xitegen Terland. You have the Skill that our house has always longed for. Petria and I were only gifted different arts.”
He nodded at her, humble. She stepped back as the family flooded forwards to embrace Chema, who gently patted them like children.
“Chema. Go to Lord Ilvriss and heal him if you are able.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
Already, she was needed. Ulva ignored the protests; the Drake was wounded. They had time, now, to celebrate Chema. She stepped back and turned.
“Timekeeper. Is that what you serve for?”
“Yes, Lady Ter-land. The power of those who level allows us to en-dure. I would be rust if not for this bond. Sym-bi-o-tic.”
The Golem did not smile as she stood with him, but she saw, then, a reason for him to tolerate his long service. Perhaps he was just waiting for a day when one of the Terlands could command his heart to awaken and beat until he was truly a person.
Perhaps that Terland had come. Ulva let her eyes rest on Xitegen, but he was not merely accepting congratulations. He strode towards her, and there was a focus to him.
“I have Celum on alert and have marshalled my Golems for the hunt, or the half-Elf’s vengeance. First the damn Titan, then the Goblin King, and now this. I don’t actually believe The Wandering Inn is cursed, Great Aunt…”
“Don’t be stupid. It’s just like the Adventurer’s Haven. It attracts powerful people and enemies. Enough. Go heal, eat, let the family celebrate you, and come to me with any suggestions. I’ll be in Invrisil until I sort this out.”
She returned to her study and let herself be relieved, just for a moment. But since that was not a natural state of being for Ulva, eventually, she got back to work. She was angry at herself, at the monsters of old, and wondering if that Drake would live. She’d just been persuaded to give him a chance and some idiot had the effrontery to kill him? What a waste of her time if he died.
Since she refused to say a good word about Drakes, that was how she thought of it. When she did fall asleep on her Dais of Health and Timekeeper, slowly repairing himself with the help of other Golems, draped a blanket over her, Ulva Terland levelled for the first time in a long while.
Almost everyone did, really.
 
——
 
Every single person who had encountered Tolveilouka levelled. The only exceptions were people who levelled twice, three times, or five times. Or who were waiting for Level 50.
Or who were dead, Golems, or Rhisveri.
Some gained classes like [Survivor].
Some gained conditions like [Terror of Rot]. Or [Resurgent Trauma: Crippling Fear].
One person gained [Idolizer of Monstrosities] as a class. A rare class that the Grand Design of Isthekenous hadn’t assigned for the last three ages and was a bit of a red letter moment—for it. That person was not Damia Reinhart.
Everyone obtained levels, because they had met a true monstrosity, even if he hadn’t been ‘seriously’ trying to murder them, Tolveilouka was quite capable of murdering by accident, as he had done when he lost his temper. The grieving Golva family were proof of that, as well as the other dead. But the levels came, a paltry reward, perhaps, for a brush with that monster.
Nevertheless, they were aware that one day, the differential in power might be equalized.
The first person to level was Lyonette du Marquin as she had passed out due to the effects of Tolveilouka’s rot.
 
[The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn Level 42!]
[Skill Change: Imperial Aura → Aura of Radiance Obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Crippled Reflexes Removed!]
 
She did not receive the Skill for the dance. But Lyonette didn’t care. She was on her feet as soon as she realized the battle was over.
Concerned for…
Ilvriss.
Welsca had rushed him back to the dig camp against everyone’s protests. She’d left Osthia behind to be healed by Healer Demerra herself, but Lyonette didn’t understand why—until the Erchirite Spears had literally fired a lightning bolt to keep Ishkr from chasing after them. Welsca’s voice rasped across the speaking stone.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is under quarantine! I…I have isolated myself and everyone who escorted him to camp. The Rubirel Guard are showing no signs of illness. I wish to inform you, Diplomat Nerul, that I am feeling unwell. Major Shellc has already evacuated the camp and is holding the workers at Dig Sites A, B, and C. All those injured by Tolveilouka are in separate tents, being tended to by those of us still able to move. I have refused volunteers.”
Lyonette’s blood ran cold. She realized that number included several [Ranchers] and even one of the Terlands. Ulva had sent Golems to monitor the sick, but had informed Lyonette, coolly, that they would be bathed in flames and isolated until they were absolutely declared clean.
The Putrid One had apparently made rot so foul it corroded stone and Golems. And Ilvriss had been cut by his blade.
“The Wall Lord is semi-lucid and still mobile, perhaps due to his levels. He has not slept…he is attempting to treat his wounds. I have been informed amputation is likely the only outcome. We will attempt it after receiving instruction from the Last Light of Baleros when she can…can…participate. Tell us how.”
They moved to the [World’s Eye Theatre], and Lyonette saw Welsca was already stumbling around. Visibly sweating.
“You weren’t struck, were you?”
“No. Sickness. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ blood got on me. Burn everything that half-Elf touched.”
The [Adjutant] mumbled. A Golem had to pick her up. Lyonette wanted to go to Ilvriss, but Welsca shouted at her.
“The sickness may transmit via even sight!”
“Don’t be ridiculous, Welsca! That’s not how sickness works. Does it?”
Lyonette wavered, and after sending Ishkr, Ulva Terland tersely sent him back with a reply that ‘yes, some sicknesses of the Putrid One’s caliber do that. Unlikely this is one of them. Don’t risk it. I’m burning everything with a Golem.’
Better to have half your bones broken than a single cut to have touched Ilvriss’ arm. Lyonette herself went to be screened additional times, but Healer Demerra, wearing a weird full-body suit, declared Lyonette healthy.
[Resonant Flesh] merely…resonated. If Lyonette had ingested whatever Tolveilouka had been producing or stayed in his presence for an hour, it might have become permanent. She was safe.
Ilvriss? Lyonette hugged her daughters, scolding and praising them, and wept as she waited. A beat-up Rhisveri came to apologize, as if he’d done anything wrong, and they sat together.
After some time, it occurred to Lyonette that her mother might have been hurt. She hesitated, but called Ielane. When she stepped into the palace—her mother was too warded for Lyonette to find her—Princess Menisi spotted her. She was the only [Princess] without a circlet, and so she could speak to Lyonette.
“Hello there, little sister. You look ravishing.”
“M-Menisi. Hello.”
Lyonette wasn’t in the mood for anything, and Menisi herself had two wads of cotton stuffed up her nose.
“Oh, don’t worry about the look. We’re all little war heroes for fighting that thing. The kingdom’s abuzz. Father’s beside himself. He didn’t know what Mother was up to, did you know?”
“I…I thought it was working.”
The 2nd Princess chuckled.
“Doubtless, Mother did too. Don’t beat yourself up. She spun it into a victory.”
“How?”
“Why, she had it all broadcast. It was a risk, but now she looks like a hero, holding off a monster with sheer grit. I suppose if her head had exploded it would galvanize Calanferians—or traumatize them. Just when I thought I admired her, she manages to make herself a tool of the crown. So. How the hell did you keep him off you last time?”
Her elder sister pressed, but when Lyonette just mumbled she was relieved Ielane was well, Menisi told Nanette to take care of her. Then they sat together.
The only thing that broke the stillness in the inn was Lady Damia. They found her crying in a corner of the inn. She had gotten her wish, come to The Wandering Inn—and found the truth behind the legend, even if she had been warned. Seeing Ilvriss being carried away…Damia blamed herself for the cake.
Nanette, Lyonette, Mrsha, and the staff did their best to cheer up Damia and reassure her that it would have gone down that way regardless of the cake. That helped, but after a while, there was nothing more to do. Then they were just…
Waiting.
It was a long night.
The first to level was Lyonette du Marquin.
The last was Wall Lord Ilvriss.
 
——
 
Ilvriss still felt like he was dancing.
It was a pleasant way to die.
And he suspected he was dying. He hadn’t fallen asleep after collapsing. Just lain there and known there was something in his veins. He’d thought, ‘well, shit.’
Not exactly heroic, but it was honest.
There was an irony to it. He’d been ready to die when he’d tried to dance, on a hunch it might help him hit Tolveilouka. He’d been ready to die to stop Lyonette from being abducted when he dueled the half-Elf.
Now, having been cut and Tolveilouka having run, Ilvriss wanted to live.
But the plague was boiling him from the inside. He didn’t want to cut off his arm. He’d refused—twice—when a sicker and sicker Welsca had tried.
Not because he thought she was wrong. Rather…Ilvriss was concerned it was too late.
His entire body was twisting up in pain. Here was the thing: if he could have been saved by amputation, Ilvriss felt like it would have had to have been in the minutes after he’d been cut at most. How fast did a magical plague run? It had already gotten Welsca. It had gone into his blood, and now he was sick.
So he’d refused, twice, and lain there as a Dullahan who called herself The Last Light inspected him.
“Can you press against your sinuses? Your lymph nodes in your armpits? Now your groin?”
“Same pain. They’re all bulging.”
“Bulging?”
He showed her. No embarrassment to be had even when he pulled his pants down. It appeared very bad. His purple scales had swelled up, revealing flesh underneath. Ilvriss was no expert on what Drakes looked like de-scaled, but he was pretty sure yellow veins weren’t part of normal skin tones.
The Dullahan glanced down at her notes and then up at him.
“I’ve never seen that before. I regret to tell you that I believe your conclusion is correct, Wall Lord. The pathogen has spread through your system.”
“I see. Please tell Welsca that. Is she…as bad?”
“I believe she is experiencing earlier stages of your affliction, Wall Lord. Now, I am sending you Occillium, which counters most bacterial infections, and I am authorizing you to take ten times the normal dose. I have also prevailed upon Healer Demerra and Invrisil’s Healer Basine to send you every poultice and cure they have at similar doses. I am going to walk you through each step when they arrive. I want you to take the cures and report any change in your condition.”
“Just…take them?”
“Ideally with thirty-minute gaps to see if they have any effects. There may be side-effects from the interactions between medications. Given your level and the severity of this ailment, I believe it is necessary.”
She paused.
“Understand, Wall Lord, that I am not sure any of these medications will work. However, I do not expect you to survive two days. Your temperature is already in excess of survivable range for most Humans.”
She didn’t expect him to survive a single day. And that meant everyone else in camp…
The healthiest person was the Rubirel Guard who’d been puking maggots. She was the healthiest…Geneva had her moved to the furthest tents because she was worried the guard would catch what Ilvriss and the others had.
It was so funny he was laughing when the Golem ran into camp with the medications. Then Ilvriss began taking them.
But…there were signs it wasn’t going well. Big sign number one? Geneva wanted Ilvriss to inject the penicillin stuff as a liquid. Since Demerra didn’t know how, she apparently made a paste out of the raw mold and just had people eat that.
Ilvriss was gamely pulling the mold out of the jars and putting it in a bowl to mash up when he noticed something. He slowly held up the blue-green mold.
“Doctor.”
She was wearing a suit, just in case even looking at him could…the Last Light gazed at Ilvriss’ claws. Her features were still, like a Dullahan’s, but he saw her eyes close a second.
“Ah. I see. Can you…repeat the process with another jar? Put gloves on to avoid touching it?”
The Occillium had turned black. It was shrivelled up, and Ilvriss smiled grimly. He went to the other jar. Breathed on it as he worked.
It died too.
 
——
 
Water was nice. It just hurt on the way down. He was burning up, taking the medications, sipping water.
Thinking of what he’d done wrong.
He had listened to Sserys. Maybe that was his fault. Who listened to that guy? Sserys hadn’t been known to be perfect. Look at his last battle. Classic overcommitment.
He thought too much of people, that Drake. Ilvriss had tried…
I should have just gone to the inn. Stayed with Erin Solstice and never left. Especially at the end of the battle. I should have been there, and even if I was in Baleros now…
I’d just be some Drake. She needed the Wall Lord to do something, and I did my best. I’m just not my father. I’m not Zel. I’m not her.
Really, he felt guilty about Lyonette. She was going to blame herself for this. Sometimes, you ran into a monster and you died.
He’d wondered if it would ever be his turn. Just—just—
“I wish it wasn’t that guy. He’s so damn silly.”
The Wall Lord was in his tents. He’d torn the place apart, searching for anything. Something to help cure himself. Welsca was down—sick.
He’d been told Osthia was going to be just fine.
That was great. Ilvriss had refused a speaking stone from Lyonette. He didn’t want to…you could be damn silly about final words and all that. Same for Zail. They kept calling him, but he had gone down fighting.
He was just worried he’d start crying and asking Lyonette, or his father, for a miracle. He didn’t want to leave them like that.
This was peaceful. Ilvriss just wished Welsca hadn’t come with him.
“How’s it go? Lyonette said you just…put your claws together and pray. Someone said you pray to levels the other day. Silly fellow. Here I go: I’d like to not die. Very much. Thank you.”
Ilvriss felt like he was at a board meeting, trying to argue his case before a superior. He was all fuzzy, but he did his best.
“I can be better. I can do more. I thought we were making it. I really did. I messed up, sure. But I thought I did okay with the pickaxes. Even Georgie. I hope he finds work. I should write a reference letter to Alrric about the situation. Excuse me.”
He penned something down and broke off his prayer. Then someone knocked at his tent door.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. I am Golem Chema.”
“Hello again, Chema.”
She hadn’t helped him, but the damaged Golem was in charge of the others assigned to him. He rasped up at her.
“You—you remind me of my first nursemaid. I’m told I had sexual fantasies about her or something.”
“This is often expressed to me, Wall Lord. I am designed to be maternal.”
“Well, I don’t want to have sex with you. Just so you know. What’s up?”
The Golem spoke as the Wall Lord tried to smile.
“An Antinium [Priest] has arrived at the camp. They have been sent from the Free Hive of Liscor with a sample of ‘Antinium curative substance’ and they wish to use their ‘Miracles’ <DESIGNATION UNKNOWN> to cure the sick. Will you allow it? Your orders are to—”
“Of course. Yes, yes! Send them to Welsca first!”
Ilvriss surged upright. Relief shot through his veins. Chema nodded, departed, and Ilvriss turned. Put his hands together.
“I’m very thankful. I’ll…um—dedicate a statue? Pray six times a day? Is this a rewards-based thing or something?”
Faith. He sat there, fidgeting, drinking water, and wondering if he was getting better as he took another medication. He was impatient, feeling like hours were passing when it was just minutes. He was just about to ask Chema if the Antinium could see him—he knew there were others sick—when the Golem returned.
“Wall Lord. I have a report.”
“Great! Yes, send him in—what report?”
“The Antinium [Priest] has declared their healing btiqk ineffective. As are their ‘prayers’. They are now ill and being quarantined.”
Ilvriss gazed at her. Chema bowed and left.
 
——
 
Faith worked miracles. But how much faith for how much of a miracle? Perhaps if they were higher-level, if they had more faith…
Pawn was in Khelt.
And perhaps a certain half-Elf, on encountering Antinium resilience, had upped his plagues a bit.
Ilvriss was lying against a table, waiting for the inn to send…something. Something from the [Gardens of Sanctuary]. Or—or Erin had something in her room or a contact. He’d told the Last Light about it.
He thought he had. He’d drank, eaten, slathered himself with all the cures. He felt worse. It had just been optimism.
He was lying there when the tent flaps opened and someone cursed.
“Tree rot.”
“Get out. Sick.”
Ilvriss muttered. Someone hauled him up, despite his protests, and put him in a chair. Even put a pillow beside his head.
“Didn’t they cut off your arm? Those idiots—!”
“Didn’t do it in the minutes…”
“They didn’t cut it off instantly? Kraken’s multiple cloacae—what is with you people? Argh!”
It…dawned on Ilvriss that whomever this was, this wasn’t one of his people. He gazed up, fuzzily, then tried to get a sword. The half-Elf just pushed him back into his seat. Then he poured himself a drink of water.
“Not even ice. You people really are primitives. Want some?”
Ilvriss flailed at him, and Tolveilouka sighed. He pulled up a seat, then put his feet up. He appeared disheveled, dirty, and he kept patting his stomach.
“Sorry. Indigestion. I ate some weird eggs, and I keep excreting bits and pieces of them instead of digesting everything. Pretty tough monsters. I think they wanted to hatch inside me or something. Mostly, they make my stomach queasy.”
“You—you—just kill me.”
That was it. He was dead. Tolveilouka eyed him. Then he sat back in his chair.
“She’s going to kill me. How, uh, how likeable are you to Erin Solstice, scale of one to ten?”
Ilvriss was dreaming. This could not be reality, even for her. Tolveilouka went on after a second.
“It wasn’t supposed to go this way, you know. I was helping you. You know, common enemy? I trashed the [Ranchers] a bit, ate some cows…I just, uh, lost my temper with the dance. Nice footwork, you know. It’s hard to pull off a magical dance in a fight.”
Ilvriss tried to strangle him. He ended up flopping onto Tolveilouka’s chest, and the half-Elf laughed as he put Ilvriss back in his seat.
“Ooh, so forwards. You know, that’s the interesting bit. I’ve been watching you and that little miner. So progressive. Drakes hate that sort of thing. Always have. The City of Purity was bad about that—but they were bad about everything. No one liked them. I was there when they died, but, if you can believe this, it wasn’t even our doing. They killed themselves.”
“If…you’re going to help…cure us.”
That was all Ilvriss breathed. He’d take it. His heart lurched. If this was a Solstice miracle and the plague monster was on his side, he’d have something to say to Erin Solstice.
Thanks. And how the hell—?
Tolveilouka appeared uncomfortable. He smoothed his hair, poured Ilvriss a cup of water, and went pacing around before staring out of Ilvriss’ tent. And that way, Ilvriss knew the answer before the half-Elf spoke.
“Here’s the thing. I make things. I can see things. I can grow…well, I didn’t use a lot of my powers in the fight, but I have them. It’s usually not as effective as punching or stabbing someone. Just more amusing. But my master made me to be undying, a vessel for plagues. I never really learned the, uh, control part. If it’s just magical and I’ve made it, sure, all under my control. But once it starts living in your veins I can only negotiate a bit. I mean, sure, I could pause the effects in you, but we both know that’s a waste of our time.”
Tolveilouka leaned on a wall, and stared at nothing.
“My master could command sickness perfectly, of course. He always thought of me as a failure.”
Ilvriss just stared at him. The half-Elf spun.
“Listen! It makes sense! Plagues, even magical ones, are alive. I’m a level-less undead! How am I supposed to…? What you do is create something nasty and throw it out there. You can’t pull it back. So, uh—let’s see your medications. I reckon I can whip up a good mixture.”
Ilvriss stared at him. Then croaked.
“[Alchemy] tent.”
He had to find a damn map of the camp and mentioned Chema—the half-Elf ducked out. He came back a minute later.
“Okay, excellent. Lovely directions. Got a good look at that Golem. Here’s the thing…when I say ‘alchemy’, do you hear ‘barrel scrapings and apprentice reagents’ in your delirium? Got any Unicorn horn? Phoenix feathers? Kraken anything? C’mon, I know there’s at least one Dragon around. The stool of a Silver Dragon? I reckon I could maybe find that Unicorn and snap his horn off…”
Ilvriss started laughing. He couldn’t help it. His death was here, trying to fix the problem, and Ilvriss was going to die. Tolveilouka paced around, then sat again.
“Okay. Okay—we can fix this. Here’s the plan: I’ll just go down there and see what’s in the City of Purity. If we’re lucky, it’s now inert.”
“And there’s healing down there?”
Tolveilouka snapped his fingers.
“That would be nice. If I find some, I’ll bring it back. I, uh, reckon you’ve got about four hours. Tops. Once the tingling becomes super bad, you’ll start squishing. Then I’d grab a wand and blow your head off. Hmm. I’d better make sure this tent is airtight. Don’t need that spreading in a cloud. Same with the other tents. They’ve all got it.”
He got up and bustled around. Then he poked his head back in.
“Oh, what I meant was that we’ll get that city found. Big win for Drakes. I’ll make sure that [Princess] gets a bunch of the good stuff. Listen—you did great for your species.”
Ilvriss said nothing. He really, really wanted Tolveilouka to go away. The half-Elf seemed to sense it.
“Listen. I really was trying to help. It just turns out that I’m not much of a team player. Maybe that’s why my master didn’t come back. Not much to live for.”
He stood there, and Ilvriss just stared at the half-Elf making Ilvriss’ death all about him. Tolveilouka coughed.
“Right. Sorry. If it helps—”
“Get out.”
He left. And then…
Well, Ilvriss felt tingling. He started laughing, then. And crying. Because he heard the voice, now.
It whispered across Izril. To Ulva Terland, who looked up in her study, then went back to work. To Lord Xitegen, who halted in eating at a restaurant and found a glass. To Damia, Cecille, and every Reinhart.
To every noble of the north, the voice spoke:
 
<Heroic Quest – Keep Him Alive: Wall Lord Ilvriss!>
<Conditions failed. Quest cancelled.>
 
Then he knew. And he hoped, only—that the [Innkeeper] didn’t find out for a while.
 
——
 
Ilvriss’ will broke. He called Lyonette.
He heard the speaking stone pick up, and he spoke.
“Ilvriss…?”
“Lyonette, is there something in the [Gardens of Sanctuary]? Some—some—he was on our side, but he messed up. But I bet that means she had something to use against him. A cure. In her rooms. Can you—”
He heard a sob.
Just once, muffled, then she tried to say something.
He hung up the speaking stone. Smashed it, with one claw, shaking. So ashamed because he had heard how desperate he was.
Lyonette, I don’t blame you.
He wrote that down on a piece of paper.
Realized how that sounded and was trying to burn it. Gave up and tried to eat it.
No saliva.
He was lying on the ground of his tent, laughing. He had been in denial until Tolveilouka had come along. He hadn’t thought this was…it.
Not for him.
Not with his death waiting in Az’kerash.
“Periss.”
He hadn’t thought of her this entire time. Just Lyonette and other people. Ilvriss felt guilty, then not.
He’d see her soon. Then she could scold him.
Or was her ghost not…
Erin had said there was a place after death.
Ilvriss hoped there was. He was afraid of being alone.
He was afraid of nothing being the end.
 
——
 
He was trying…
To find something.
Something. He was knocking papers around. Swinging the last pickaxe from the City of Purity to open locks and drawers and pull himself up.
Because he wanted to live. Because he didn’t want that to be how Lyonette heard he’d died. Begging her for…
I want to live. I want to fall in love and live for decades before I go. I’m sorry, Periss. 
If I couldn’t do that—I wanted to avenge you.
Instead, he was dying in a shit-smelling camp at the hands of a half-Elf who hadn’t even meant to kill him. Ilvriss swung the pickaxe again and again, destroying his orderly world. He only stopped when he saw something glittering.
He’d hit…a pile of gifts meant for the [Ranchers] and Terlands. The Wall Lord gazed down and saw the gift-briefcases that were all the rage in Salazsar. This one was glittering, cut by the pickaxe that had left a neat rectangle of leather on the ground.
Inside was something he knew. He stopped, then bent down, laughing.
“A toll for the great beyond. Fitting.”
He didn’t really say the words. Just thought them as his lips moved soundlessly. What he’d found was…the quintessential treasure of his kind. That which his Ancestors and Salazsar coveted.
Gemstones.
The magical gemstones he’d given to Marvus. A fortune in magic, not just pretty gems. Ilvriss picked out two.
You put coins on eyes, didn’t you? Gems would suit a greedy Wall Lord.
Then he went to lie down.
He was tired.
 
——
 
He couldn’t lie down right. His lungs felt like they were filling up with something. And—this was why people used coins—the gems were uncomfortable.
They dug into his eyes, which felt…squishy. He was tingling. Rotting. The Wall Lord tried to hold them, but his claws were sweaty. He put them under his pillow in his uncomfortable travel-bed.
“Ow.”
He rolled his head, trying to find somewhere to sleep. It was like…you know when you were tired and you had been up far too long, but you couldn’t sleep because you were so tired? And you just knew that when your body finally let you, you’d rest forever?
That was how it felt. Only, the thing keeping him up was life.
Still fighting.
He was proud of himself for that. But he was so uncomfortable, and he didn’t—Ilvriss rolled over—
There wasn’t a way out. So he’d just like to rest, please. He’d tried.
He had tried.
Ilvriss turned over as he felt a haze pulling him away and heard a sound.
Crack.
His head rose muzzily, and he cursed.
“Oh come on.”
He knew what it was. When he pulled his pillow aside, he saw the magical gemstone had turned to powder. The magic was actually visible, swirling up like fine dust. Ilvriss coughed, waved it away. Then sighed.
Turned out the entire batch of gift gemstones was actually flawed somehow. He owed Marvus an apology. Magical hazard, that. Terrible. Someone else could deal with it.
Ilvriss put his head down on top of the cracked gemstone, and the other one cracked too. He just lay there. Until he realized that the gemstone fragments digging into his forehead was the most uncomfortable way to die.
It took him six tries to get up and swipe the gemstone fragments off his bed. Highly hazardous, that. Any magical gemstone above Cirozine-quality breaking was a minor disaster. They had such unpredictable effects…
His scales were tingling on his head, and he’d doubtless absorbed something magical that might give him a permanent health condition. Since that was probably all of forty minutes left, Ilvriss’ main concern was the pieces of gem that had decided to bury themselves in his forehead.
His flesh was definitely getting weaker. Scales too. Ilvriss staggered up and found the vanity. He stared at the pieces of gemstone embedded in his forehead.
“Ow.”
What a failure. Couldn’t even die right. Ilvriss picked at the gemstone shards where blood was oozing around them. They hurt.
Like actually hurt. His blood was thick and red, and they were stuck in there damn hard. Ilvriss gritted his teeth—then reached into his mouth.
Pulled out a tooth with some gum stuck to it.
“And that’s it, folks.”
He whispered in his head. His body was sagging, now. His claws scraped listlessly at the gems in his forehead. Maybe just lie down and die? His brain whispered that to him.
But they hurt. They legitimately hurt, those shards, and everything else was tingling.
Like…
Ilvriss spat blood out of his mouth; it was replacing saliva. It was yellow and red. The wrong color of red. He stared at the drool and noticed he was bleeding the same revolting mixture.
Don’t want it going downwind, Tolveilouka had said. So why…
Why…?
Why was the blood coming from his temples red? Ilvriss stared at it fuzzily. A part of his mind had a thought.
Gemstones.
Gemstone magic.
Magic…magic was powerful. Raw.
Took on flavors. Elemental. Something.
Magicore for absorbing.
Maybe—
Raw magic purity? Unicorn magic. Phoenix feather magic. No big magic in alchemists for Tolveilouka.
Magic.
One last thought made the Drake waver. His bed was calling him. But he glanced in the mirror, and though his flesh was sagging, though he had changed and forsaken so much, he was still Ilvriss.
Ilvriss.
Gemscale.
 
——
 
He was scrabbling at the briefcases. Clawing at them. Putting them in his mouth and biting them with his teeth, even as they shifted around. Swallowed one whole.
Break them. Ilvriss had the pickaxe, and he was tapping them. Each time he missed, he felt like that was the end. But then he’d break one. Pour it over his scales—and it seemed like they were sticking to his scales, or maybe that was how much he was rotting.
He had a lot of briefcases. He was a Wall Lord of money. The Drake broke more. More, until he lay under a covering of broken, glittering gems. And magic…he felt magic in the air, a thrum in his blood and bones.
It was louder than the tingling. It reminded him of that [Innkeeper] he loved.
Not like Periss. But like someone who reminded a boy what dreams were like. It felt like her [Immortal Moments], her greatest Skill. A grasping towards unknowable wonders.
Brushing eternity.
Because he could find no more gemstones in his blurry vision, because the tingling had stopped for a moment, and because that was a fine feeling to die with, if this was the last thing he’d ever know, the Drake lay down and went to sleep at last.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Class Change: Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence → Wall…]
[Skill…]
…
But that wouldn’t really help, would it?
 
[Conditions Met: Drake → Oldblood of Gems Species!]
[Condition: Body – Breath of Jewels Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Oldblood Wings Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Scales of Opulence Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Fortune’s Scent Obtained!]
[Condition: Body – Greater Resistance: Sickness Obtained!]
 
Now…
[Class Change: Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence → Wall—]
 
——
 
Ilvriss pushed himself up.
He rose before the voice continued, and his body responded to his will. He heaved himself up and felt something on his back. Like a cloak, only lighter, and they flexed. He could see.
The world had stopped spinning. He felt…wonderful.
Alive.
But he was running. Running, scattering the briefcases, picking out the remaining gems as if they were all aglow—he could even smell how many there were left intact.
Running out of his tent. A Golem walking the camp, Chema, jerked when she saw him. Recoiled in pure alarm and fright.
“Wall Lord?”
He threw open the tent flaps to Welsca’s tent. She was lying there, breath rasping, stained rags covered in that filthy blood lying next to her, a cooling compress on her head. He staggered over to her.
“Welsca. Welsca…gemstones. Where are the others? We need—”
He began smashing them in his palms. Sprinkling them down on her. She stirred.
“Ilvriss…?”
He kept smashing gemstones. He didn’t know how many she needed. A fortune. How much time did she have?
“Hang on, Welsca. We’re going to make it. For once, we brought our own miracles. Just hang on.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
The tent flaps opened. Someone spoke.
“Wall Lord, what is—”
“Gemstones!”
He turned, and Chema jumped again. The Drake shouted.
“Get me every gemstone above—no, every gemstone! Fill them with magic! Buy them from Invrisil, Pallass—get them, now! Hurry! Run!”
She ran. And then Welsca was blinking up at Ilvriss.
Did her flesh look more stable? Was it working? Would it be instantaneous? Or slower, since she might not level up when she slept?
She lay there as he tried to explain.
“There’s a way to cure the plague, Welsca. Just magic. Magic. You might die…but don’t. I’m going to cure you, understand? You and everyone else I can.”
“It’s a fortune, Wall Lord. Can’t afford it.”
“Shut up about money. Just hang on, okay?”
“Okay. You look different, Ilvriss.”
He felt different. Ilvriss had no mirror. He just cradled Welsca in his arms.
“Not bad, I hope? It beats dying.”
“No. You look like I imagined a Wall Lord should look like when I was small.”
“Oh. Good? Welsca? You’re not asleep, are you?”
“No.”
“Keep talking to me, then. Just hang on.”
“Okay, Ilvriss.”
He knelt there until the tent burst back open, and there was a babble from a speaking stone. And he began to smash more gems and give orders. But he waited until he saw Welsca’s scales begin to glow. Then he glanced away, respectfully. When he rose…
He breathed out. And his breath glittered in the air. Like broken gemstones. Like magic.
It was in him, now.
A piece of wonders. Like Erin.
 
——
 
Seven.
Seven. Five Drakes and one Gnoll from the Silverfang tribe. Two of the Rubirel Guard, Ilvriss, Welsca, a [Soldier], the [Lucky Miner] from the Silverfang tribe—and the Antinium [Priest].
That was how many made it. Eight died, succumbing to the plague too fast, including one of the Terland [Lords].
Ilvriss didn’t know if the Human could have been saved. He would have paid for it all, though the cost to transform was placed at about 63,000 gold pieces. Per person, excluding the Antinium [Priest], who managed to fight off the sickness themselves. Whether that was biology or prayer—the other species had been only saved by magic and gold.
It was bitter.
It was something that only a Wall Lord could do.
It was wondrous—and a secret, because Ilvriss pictured people giving themselves mana poisoning or all his peers just wasting fortunes to do this. Because he felt like it was not something to be done because you were rich. Perhaps the catalyst was a need to change, not just the magic.
If so, it was earned, by each and every person. But not a one was alike.
Ilvriss kept flexing his new wings. It was like having new muscles on his back, and he knew his scales were…sparkly. The people who saw him, Drakes especially, would just stand and stare, or stutter.
However, his was the only transformation into an Oldblood of Gems—or whatever his subspecies was. The others were different.
Welsca Crimsonscale’s coloration had only deepened and now took on a bit of orange and even deeper ruby. She had wings—but the breath that came from her lungs was hot, like a furnace was in her chest. He’d feared she was still dying when she woke up, but the fever was instead just permanent for her.
She had become an Oldblood of Flames. The other Drakes had each taken on different elements; one had become an Oldblood of Winds, the first Ilvriss had ever seen. And the Silverfang Gnoll was just—strange.
He had a silver streak down his neck and back, and he seemed no bigger; if anything, he might have shrunk. But he appeared more compact, and the biggest changes were his claws and eyes.
They glowed. From brown, his irises had taken on a silver hue, a crescent of silver in the brown, and his claws were now pale white. Could every species become magical? Had Ilvriss found something truly important? And if so, why had it been lost? Or was it just that risky?
He didn’t know. These were questions for later.
Ilvriss was alive. Cured of plague, and after the bodies were burned and the most thorough screening he could think of, he rode to The Wandering Inn. Not flew; he had no idea how, really. Though he felt like he could make himself lighter.
But he rode, then walked through the magic door—and a [Princess] tackled him in a hug, then stood back and stared at him.
“Ilvriss? You look—gorgeous.”
“I’m not sure if that’s a compliment.”
His scales were still largely purple, but they’d taken on variance, the kind he’d only ever seen in a few Drakes, like Rafaema or Onieva come to think of it. A slight patterning where the scales changed colors. In places, Ilvriss’ scales had turned pearlescent. In others, they simply glittered. Like jewels.
He had highlights around his eyes, and his tail had some kind of pattern too, though it was hard to get a great look at it. It didn’t matter. If he’d turned poop-brown, he’d have been happy to be alive.
Ilvriss was swaying on his feet. He’d not slept more than, like, five seconds, but he let Mrsha hug him too and tried to explain it without giving away the secret.
“It was just luck. We, um—there’s something you need to know, Lyonette. Privately.”
Tolveilouka’s admission. Suddenly, Ilvriss had a hundred problems. Dying not being one of them, he felt great. He was hugging Lyonette, and she was beaming, and he just—kissed her on the cheek. Then apologized.
“I’m so sorry, that was entirely inappropriate—”
Damia skidded to a halt, her tearstained face turning into awe and delight. Just in time for Lyonette to blink, turn, and kiss Ilvriss on the lips.
Everyone turned, stopped, and gaped. The two broke apart right away, and Lyonette coughed.
“That was just—I’m so relieved. I thought—”
“Right—”
The two stared at each other as Mrsha slapped her forehead with a paw. Ilvriss had no idea what to say, but ‘I didn’t mean that’ felt like a bad move, even if he sort of felt like—
Then, through the [Door of Portals] that Liska was holding open for Welsca, he heard and felt the faintest tremor. And a sound.
It sounded suspiciously like ‘boom’. But faint.
Slowly, everyone turned to the door, and Welsca’s head rotated.
“Wall Lord? That came from the expedition’s—”
Ilvriss had never been more grateful for the inn’s signature brand of chaos. He turned and began running with Lyonette without a word.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
I finished the arc, and it’s a long one. But as you might haven noticed—the final chapter is in two parts.
That’s just how long it is. 90,000 words before edits, I believe. And because it’s so dang long, I had to split it, on this cliffhanger.
It fits.
But here’s my plan: I’m going to try and release the 2nd part on Tuesday. I’ll take that entire day to edit so it might be late, but if I can, I’ll release it then. No promises, but that’s because the chapter’s done.
Then I’ll take my monthly break. That way we both win; you get the chapter early and I get to rest a bit longer.
Once it’s out, I’d love feedback on how it felt to have a longer arc without moving perspectives. It’s always longer than I planned but we hit a bunch of plotlines here. And this was actually feedback from the [Palace of Fates] survey. I did my best, and like Ilvriss, sometimes you’re a fool while doing it.
But sometimes you do the right, amazing thing. And even our silly, purple-scaled Wall Lord who once got clocked with a frying pan can become a shiny new Drake. I hope you enjoy how the chapter has gone and how it ends.
(Also Tolveilouka is really funny to write.)
That’s all from me!

10.71 (Pt. 2) (2026-07-22)

(The author is on break until August 8th! I’m signing those bookplates and travelling, so wish me luck! Seriously, I don’t want to get COVID again, it sucks. Enjoy your early chapter!)
 
 
A bit earlier.
Tolveilouka was reflecting on his actions. He was. He’d even gone through the mines that were mostly unguarded now. All the Drakes and Gnolls were above, bedding down, and upset.
Because, uh, their Wall Lord was dying. Which was his fault. So Tolveilouka was really thinking about it.
That Ilvriss. Upstanding fellow, really. Low-level, but he’d activated Wrathcaller, and he’d done a magical dance in combat.
Great prospects.
Shame how it went down. You had to respect your foes after they bit the dust. Why, even Yderigrisel had been…adequate…
You had to admire the fellow’s tenacity. That was Tolveilouka’s problem, really. Not being a team player. He’d do better.
Mind you, he’d probably burned all the bridges around here, but maybe there was another group he could ally with? Be a friend.
Buy a drink, talk about the weather. Was that what friends did? Or was it—order around his minions in a rage, howl his anger to the sky, then grab Tolveilouka and proceed to violently lovemake until some new atrocity occurred to his master—?
Damn, I like the other option a lot more. But since Erin’s not very good at that, I have to change with the age.
He was reformed, that was the point. In fact, he was so reformed that when Tolveilouka found the undead hiding in the bottom of the mine, he ignored their requests for him to take over the death of the living and smashed them up.
“Listen, it’s nothing personal. It’s just—you’re mostly bones, and I’m plagues. We don’t mix. We’re cousins at best.”
That done, he scratched his head.
“Weird mine.”
It was all caved in on one end. He shrugged and began excavating it. Then, after an hour, he made a sound.
“Aha! It is the City of Purity. Smells worse, but I’d know that obsessively clean look anywhere. Eugh. Not a microwhatsit in sight.”
Too pure. But he’d carved his way into it. Which was odd because this place had clearly been buried by the miners. Tolveilouka scratched his head.
“…Miners? No, that makes no sense. Oh, they were escaping. Duh.”
Probably ran out of air or food. He began walking around and whistled.
“Light spells still active. Dead gods, this might actually make Erin forget all about that other business. This place is loaded. Wait, do they still have those old Sets of Immaculacy? Even I’d wear one of them.”
You know what? This was all working out for the best. Tolveilouka would just nip down there, maybe open one or two of their vaults—pick out a few items for himself—then deliver some stuff to that [Princess]. Everyone won!
He was just strolling forwards when he had a thought, and he got to one of the obsessively-clean streets.
It’s been a long, long time. And they were buried. There’s no chance the doom of Naamreles is still active, right? Not after all this time, no matter how well they made the stuff. If it were, they’d already have attacked and noticed me.
That was the last thing he needed. They’d managed to push back even the Putrid One, which was why Ilvriss had wanted this place to begin with. But since he wasn’t under attack…Tolveilouka wiped at his forehead.
One good turn. Which meant all the real Relics were his to h—
He got four more paces when the alarm began to sound. The half-Elf froze, and a thought occurred to him.
If the Emperor of Storms’ weapons are still good after all this time, then Naamreles, which is younger, might be—
There was, suddenly, more light. Harsh light. Magical light.
The half-Elf glanced up.
“Treant’s nutsacks. Are they…bigger than before?”
They were shouting, of course. Those old words. Tolveilouka swallowed, suddenly no longer confident. A bunch of children and Golems was one thing, but this lot hurt—
He raised his fists, began growing in size—and the [Queen] cut him off. Tolveilouka swore.
“Nononono—you idiot! This is bad, really—”
The first guardian of Naamreles came at him, and Tolveilouka snarled.
“Fine then! Bone and nail it is! I am Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer! Come and die, already-dead city! Come and—”
 
——
 
Twenty-four minutes later he was running up from the mines, collapsing the tunnels behind him. Unfortunately, they were digging. He ran, trying to regenerate the holes in his body.
Dead gods damnit, that hurts so much! Tolveilouka was panting as he ran for his life. Literally, if they surrounded him. That was a lot of—
Okay, no one panic, how far could they get without their masters? Probably only a few hundred miles. Maybe a thousand. Not my problem! How far away is the inn? I just need to get back and heal and—
He ran faster. He heard the alarm now, through his feet, and they were coming. Worse—
They’d recognized him, and they were not happy.
 
——
 
Captain Osthia Blackwing had discharged herself from Healer Demerra’s to get to Dig Site B. Well, okay, she’d signalled for the Sisters of Chell to carry her.
She had to be there if—
If Ilvriss—
She’d continue the fight without him. She didn’t know how, but she lay there as the Sisters paced around, swore, argued, and asked her if she needed anything.
The camp was silent. No one wanted to do anything, but as morning came, someone did shout everyone up.
“Alright, up! Let’s get to it!”
Foreman Rolx was shouting as Osthia heard swearing. She hobbled onto her one good foot, using Boyd for support, and emerged to see Advance Miner Georgie arguing. All the [Miners] were standing around.
“What the hell are we working for? Wall Lord Ilvriss might be dead—”
The Gnoll growled back.
“It beats you all standing around picking fights and drinking. C’mon. Let’s kill the undead and just…finish the job. We owe him that.”
It got people moving and kept them from stewing in their juices. Georgie didn’t argue, just grabbed his magical pickaxe and trooped past Osthia. He glanced at her.
“Hey. Um…”
He trailed off. Captain Osthia saluted him.
“It was our fault in being too lax.”
“You weren’t even there, right? Those Rubirel Guard, those…”
Georgie trailed off. He stared at the Rubirel Guard. They weren’t at their posts. Some had taken off their helmets. Others were just sitting.
Osthia spoke, not unkindly, to everyone listening in.
“It was a monster. The Wall Lord did his duty. He saved lives. He didn’t run.”
“I know. I wish he had. I wish someone ran because I’m damn well sick of losing all the people we need.”
The Advance Miner spat bitterly, and no one, not Mining Leader Maiss, nor Dramm, argued. Osthia stood there as Georgie walked down into Dig Site B, shoving a helmet onto his head.
“Let’s move some damn dirt.”
Everyone moved down the steps. Georgie did see a half-Elf dashing up the stairs, swearing, but he just assumed it was some new hire who’d gotten lost. Idiot didn’t have any safety gear on. He’d mention that to a supervisor if he saw the fool again.
 
——
 
Advance Miner Georgie’s team was assigned to the mining tunnels. For whatever reason, despite their inefficiencies, Maiss and the miners had been handpicked by Shellc for the risky excavation work.
They had good nerves, even if Georgie was doing most of the work, boring a careful tunnel into the rock. Rubirel Guards breathing down his back and [Soldiers] on duty, but Georgie felt off.
Not just because no one knew if Ilvriss was alive…he stopped swinging his pickaxe after barely seven minutes, taking the stub of a cigar out of his mouth.
“Something’s wrong.”
“Undead ambush, Advance Miner?”
Whatever they thought about him, the Rubirel Guard and [Soldiers] respected an Advance Miner’s intuition and tensed. But Georgie just put one earhole to a piece of stone, frowning. Checked his pickaxe.
“No. The opposite. They must not be down this tunnel.”
“This is where they were last sighted. Major Shellc wants an explanation.”
The speaking stone crackled to life, and Georgie had to explain it best he could.
“It’s intuition and the pickaxe, er, Major. I got [Itchy Scales].”
“We have a cream for that, Advance Miner. Unless that was actually a Skill?”
“Skill. It’s like [Dangersense], Major. Only, it’s more like it just goes off whenever I know I’m in a tricky spot. More reliable, but it never tells me when it’s gonna go bad. I have to know there’s something bad—and the pickaxe. It’s a different color today.”
“It’s not red. The warning magic—”
One of the Rubirel Guard glanced down and blinked. The pickaxe appeared…sort of blue-bronze-ish. Not red. As in—Georgie explained.
“It only turns red when there are monsters nearby, yeah. So they’re not even in the area.”
It was just a hunch, and he was no [Enchanter], but his intuition was often right. The Rubirel Guard hesitated.
“Maybe they escaped? Damn, sir, if they found an exit—”
“I’ll put our people on it. Get us in there, Advance Miner, and we’ll pick the trail up. We can locate most undead’s mana signatures.”
“Yessir.”
Georgie breached into the mining tunnels and shuddered at the familiar dead air scent, the faint odor of bone dust and…undeath. But he was right. No undead. He held back as [Soldiers] did their soldiering things.
Maiss’ team enlarged the tunnel, and Georgie waited until someone called him forwards.
“Tunnels are empty! Advance Miner—I need you to look at something.”
“Hells—okay.”
He jogged forwards, ready to run, but his pickaxe wasn’t giving any warnings. Georgie headed down the mining tunnels…then down another diagonal shaft and felt that odd prickling again. They were all just going down in one direction. No exploratory shafts beyond avoiding sheer rock, and even then he bet the old [Miners]’ pickaxes would have cut most of it easily.
The [Miners] had been going straight down, nearabouts. Or—as it had occurred to him more than once—
Up.
But there were no bodies, just the uniform support beams, the paved ground—and—he stopped.
The undead.
To be precise, what was left of them. Two [Captains] were standing in front of a mangled pile of flesh upon which a deformed skull had been placed, so many holes in it that Georgie doubted it would reanimate on its own in a hurry. The rest of the flesh seemed…ripped up.
Bones mangled, and the entire blob squished together. But not in a Wailing Pit kind of way, more like a hamburger with bones.
“Major, are you seeing this?”
“Get ready to evac right now, Captain. Captain Shieldscale’s been apprised—get Advance Miner Georgie’s opinion and prepare to fall back.”
“The hell did that?”
Georgie whispered, and someone, Advisor Merls, spoke crisply.
“We don’t know, but these match the remaining undead we were tracking down. Ignore them, Advance Miner. What’s this?”
Georgie’s head pivoted, and his mouth opened. Because beyond the undead was…a tunnel. It sloped downwards and crumbling dirt and rock and a lack of support pillars made him instantly nervous. He backed up.
“The hell’s that? That’s not their mine.”
Anyone could see that. The neat, obsessive mine of the dead [Miners] versus this—he took one look at it.
“Looks like a mole or some kind of tunneling monster. Big. Big. Only, it’s not even dug well. Most digging monsters know how to not collapse shit on them. [Sense Structural Integrity] says that’ll collapse fast if the earth so much as trembles.”
“So we’re looking at a monster big enough and strong enough to take down that many undead—who dug up into the mines? Wonderful. You hearing us, Major Shellc?”
Merls grumbled, glaring at Georgie, but not in an anti-Turnscale way; more like a ‘you have given me more bad news’ way that was iconic to all executives. Major Shellc replied, loud and clear.
“We’ll operate like that’s the case. I’m lifting the speaking stone lockdown. Full communications. Advance Miner, good work. Unless you can identify anything, fall back with your team after giving us entryways. And I want only three openings. Fortify each, and permanent overwatch. Advisor, get me a sensor spell to run down there and pull back once it’s deployed.”
Neat and tidy. Salazsarian mining protocols. Georgie was already stomping away, wiping sweat from his brows in relief, when he heard the faintest of sounds from below him. A tremor. Then…
An alarm.
It sounded like the alarms Salazsar would ring during tests, the big ones. City-wide ‘mine breach’ alarms for gas, monsters, or war.
Only, these weren’t the clarion calls from Salazsar’s towers. These were deep, almost like voices. Low voices, singing single notes, and then higher-pitched ones.
It was almost like music. A call to alarm—and a song. The instant he felt it, Georgie began running.
“It’s below us! Run, run!”
He got twenty feet, saw Merls turning his head, the rest of the [Soldiers] spinning around or frowning, raising their weapons. The idiots—
“Run! It’s coming from below!”
They didn’t have his instincts! Soldiers and their—Merls whirled and cupped an earhole.
“Below us? Those sound like—”
“Figure it out later! Run! Run!”
It was Major Shellc who barked.
“Full retreat! You heard him! Go!”
Only then did the damn idiots lurch into motion. Georgie wavered another moment longer despite his instincts. Because he saw one of the squad leaders glancing around and realized they didn’t know how to get out—despite the mine being so obvious to him.
Non-miners had no sense of space or direction underground. The Drake waved.
“This way! Move! Move!”
They began running, but slowly. The Rubirel Guard formed the rearguard, shouting, and the squads moved back as a unit. Great for fighting, slow when the mine was collapsing—which it wasn’t.
He didn’t know.
All Georgie knew was that the alarms were getting louder with each passing second. From a faint murmur, they started to fill the air. By the time five minutes had passed, and he was screaming at the Rubirel Guard to run faster, it was filling the tunnels.
Ten minutes and they were at the breach he’d dug. And it was so loud he thought it might begin tremoring…
Full evacuation. Major Shellc was ordering it, and Georgie saw [Miners] streaming upwards as he reached the breach. Second problem.
He’d been too slow to run.
Georgie blamed Ilvriss, really. He’d hesitated for that one crucial moment. Maybe he’d bought into the Wall Lord’s talk about a future, thought he owed Ilvriss something.
The time it took to lead the [Soldiers] up instead of leaving them to find their own way…it wasn’t long, but it meant that everyone else had heard him shouting. So [Miners] were evacuating—and filling the tunnels.
They were moving fast, but there were only so many ways to go. When you were at the back, closest to the alarms blaring louder—
Georgie stood there, watching as people shoved. Team Leader Maiss was shouting.
“Move it! Move it! Don’t shove—”
He was keeping his head, like Foreman Rolx, who was standing on some scaffolding, directing the teams upwards. And still…no one knew what was coming. The Rubirel Guard were six strong.
They formed a line in the beautiful tunnel of old, holding halberds, facing the darkness. Behind them, Advisor Merls had a wand aimed down the corridor, and the [Soldiers] were waiting. Just…
“Get out of here, Maiss!”
Georgie was hollering at the Drake. Maiss, his recently-healed jaw Georgie had broken, was wavering as a gap opened. He hesitated, and his eyes locked with Georgie’s.
“They’re coming. Two minutes till contact.”
How did he know…? Skill. But which one? Then Maiss turned, and his team were heading up. Georgie was estimating how many people were in front of him. Now the regular [Soldiers] were retreating, and Merls was hesitating.
“Rubirel Captain—Advance Miner—”
“Get out of here. I run fast, and I have an enchanted pickaxe. Advance Miners and heavies in the front.”
The [Advisor] hesitated a moment more, then spun on his heel. Georgie glanced at the scrum of bodies, then lifted his pickaxe and turned back around. One of the Rubirel Guard’s backed up from the breach and halted next to him, chestplate rising and falling rapidly.
“We hold the breach into the mining tunnels until we have a clear shot at retreat. Advance Miner, stand behind us.”
“Don’t get in the way of my pickaxe. I can throw it once, and it’ll kill anything. Pretty sure.”
A moment of hesitation, then they formed a wedge. Three on either side, with a gap down the center, slanted inwards there. One of the Rubirel Guard braced something against the side of the tunnel; it looked like a glowing tripwire, only a thick, broad beam of red. He tapped the side of the odd device emitting the magic.
“Ruby Linewall in place. It’ll slow them down until the gem bursts. Halberds ready. We’re close-quarters. Reduce grips to 20%.”
The Rubirel Guard were too bunched up to swing the long halberds effectively. So one twisted something and collapsed the shaft of the metal weapon. Then they were holding axe-like weapons.
This was taking forever. Georgie’s clawed hand was sweating on his pickaxe. The Rubirel Guard said nothing until one of them spoke with a female voice.
“[Dangersense] is going off.”
“Took you long enough, Maisy. What, is your Skill on holiday or something?”
One of the others joked, and the leader snapped.
“Discipline in the squad. We have a civilian to protect.”
They stopped laughing, and Georgie saw the one called ‘Maisy’ glance at him again. Then she spoke.
“…It’s [Personal Dangersense]. Only goes off when I’m in harm’s way.”
Now, every helmeted head swung towards her. But some dipped. Georgie spoke through his spit-dry mouth.
“You ever think about keeping that kind of shit to yourself, soldier?”
She grunted.
“I thought you’d be mining out of here with that fancy pickaxe. Could have cut us a separate tunnel up.”
That was true, and Georgie might have done it. He glanced over his shoulder and saw Merls staring at him, still not even able to make a run for it himself. Drakes with crossbows, kneeling, glancing over their shoulders and falling back, rank by rank…he spoke too calmly.
“You stupid, soldier? You cut your own route out and the monsters just take that. Advance Miners never open up multiple breach points if there’s enemies in the shafts.”
Silence. Then another Rubirel Guard.
“Tactical. You’re not so bad for a damn Turnscale, Advance Miner.”
“Eat shit and die. I’m an Advance Miner, not anything else.”
How they chuckled at that. For just one moment, Georgie relaxed and felt as natural and at home with this lot as he ever had with a group. Like nothing else about him mattered, even though they knew.
He liked the company of dead men and women. It made things equal. And he just wished that wasn’t what it took to feel at home.
Then—he heard the tenor of the alarms change, and they stopped reverberating through his bones. To be more precise, they kept echoing in the ground—but now he heard them, not just the rumble.
Something was in the tunnels. Georgie stood there, pickaxe raised to throw, and he sensed it. A vibration through the ground.
He had [Lowlight Vision]. Thus, the Advance Miner was the first Drake in aeons to see the death of Naamreles coming out of the ruined City of Purity. His eyes widened as the [Light] spells illuminating the dark tunnel wavered.
Then the magic went out. Wobbling as the spell matrices destabilized. He recognized that. It wasn’t someone dispelling the magic. It was…Georgie saw a roiling mass as the light vanished. Glittering, and he inhaled the foulest scent in the world as the air shifted in their presence.
“Ancestors—[Gouging Throw]!”
He threw the pickaxe, and the first shape exploded and collapsed. Georgie pulled his claw back, and the pickaxe spun towards him. Shedding—
“Poison! Watch it!”
Maisy shoved at him, and the pickaxe clattered downwards. It had been spraying droplets of—Georgie almost reached for the relic-class item, but the Rubirel Guard grabbed it.
“Back up! Back up—seal helmet! Liquid? Gaseous—”
Then the glowing helmets emitted red light, and Georgie, weaponless, backing up, saw them. The first being of moving…sludge reared upwards until it filled the huge mining tunnel. And two eyes made of hollowed magicore turned to face the Rubirel Guard. It reached out, an arm of something so black and foul it seemed like filth incarnate.
The waste-being’s arm met six of the Rubirel Guard’s halberds, who slashed at the liquid and left spatterings across their armor. It didn’t recoil. It didn’t stop—the arm kept elongating as the roiling mass of sludge walked at them.
“Biohazard alarms going off! Poison! Contact poison! Even harmful aura—Advance Miner, get back!”
One of the Rubirel Guard’s helms blared as they kept hacking. The filth of the being splashed down and then tried to slither back towards the thing walking at them. The Rubirel Guard fell back a step; the being kept trying to reach into the cavern. So they were still hacking, but slower—slower.
Georgie saw something black and thicker than the liquid embedded in the arm they were trying to cut through. The halberds swung into the thick, ropey semi-liquid mass, and the fire magic embedded in the halberds didn’t activate. Instead, the weapons turned lifeless.
Manaless. One of the Rubirel Guard backed up, cursing.
“Armor power just dropped to 65%. Get back! What’s—”
“Magicore! That’s some kind of magicore! Give me my pickaxe!”
Georgie recognized it—the way the light spells had destabilized was exactly like how magicore absorbed concentrated earth and light magic and made [Mages] helpless. These things were—
What?
Filth Elemental? Sludge Golems? Something close. They were so foul that Georgie’s bile was rising in his throat, and they’d absorbed magicore. He expected to see flies buzzing around them, or slugs, but they were so rancid nothing could survive on them, even insects.
The Rubirel Guard fell back as their armor began to lose its magic. But they kept hacking. Maisy tore the pickaxe from her belt, handed it to Georgie. Heedless of the filth on it, he prayed his gloves were enough and threw it again.
Straight into the center of the sludge-thing’s mass. It was at the breach opening now, trying to get in. It didn’t react as one of the Rubirel Guard shouted.
“[Devastating Cleave]!”
He cut half of its body apart, revealing more filth magicore, and another of the Rubirel Guard pointed.
“[Squad: Razor Blades]. Now!”
They leapt forwards, hacking at the body emerging into the tunnel. Then—at last—Georgie saw the thing half-collapse. It became ooze, and the body stopped moving. It flowed around the Rubirel Guard’s boots, and Georgie backed up a dozen steps. Glanced over his shoulders.
Merls was ducking into the tunnel, eyes wide. Georgie hollered.
“Back up! Back up—we’re almost out—”
The Rubirel Guard were hesitating.
“The breach. We can hold it. Go—”
Then the second being of filth pushed into the tunnel, and when one of the halberds struck it in the face, the ruby blade bounced off the crystalline structure of the humanoid monster. It was seven feet tall, and it did not so much as glitter, for the ‘crystals’ were made up of the same filth.
But it was—hard.
Maisy recoiled, and a fist punched her into one of the walls. Another of the Rubirel Guard shoulder-charged the crystalline filth-monster and bounced off. All his weight and a [Ramming Charge]—he glanced up.
The punch sent him reeling past Georgie, backpedalling until he sat down. The Advance Miner didn’t know how hard you had to hit the Rubirel Guard to dent their armor, but the chestplate was bowed in. He heard a rasp.
“Hard target. It just bent my armor—”
“Fall back! Fall back now! The Ruby Linewall—”
The glowing band of ruby splintered as the second filth-monster pushed at it; it lasted for all of two seconds before the device exploded. Georgie was jogging back now, trying to drag a dizzy Maisy with him. She was way too damn heavy and stumbling—
Then he saw the horror get worse. The second filth-thing was passing by the two halves of the being the Rubirel Guard had killed when both puddles bulged. An ‘eye’ of magicore formed in each puddle. They began to ooze forwards, now no longer humanoid, but moving like a slime.
“You’ve got to be…”
The third filth-being breached the tunnel, and it was neither crystal nor horrible putty. This one was just…a floating orb.
Completely black. Dirt and other particulates were floating up towards it, and as it appeared, Georgie felt a pull on his tail. He heard Maisy whisper.
“Gravity magic. It’s off the scales for weight readings. Over ten thousand pounds—”
He just ran faster. The doom of Naamreles kept coming. These were just three. Then he heard reports shouted into his earholes. Each of the three tunnels was being breached.
There were…thousands.
And there was something else behind them. The alarms.
Something else was coming.
 
——
 
Major Shellc had in his claws a Tier 5 scroll. [Localized Earthquake]. He was debating collapsing the entire dig site, but there were people down there.
Moreover…he didn’t know if it would work. He saw [Archers] firing from above, heard the crackle of Erchirite Spears charging up. But what he saw was a hell like that of Rhir.
“The arrows aren’t working. The targets are too hard, or they just sink in—”
“[Piercing Shots] and magical munitions only. Hold the magic until we know if they absorb it. Advance Miner Georgie, are you out?”
“—Too fast—”
He was right. Not all the creatures coming up were slow. Some resembled Swamp Golems; huge, towering masses of sludge with magicore ‘bones’ that made hacking through them too difficult.
“Basic appraisal—the magicore has replaced the need for a magical crystal. We can’t snipe their cores. They’re not just golem-types. I don’t know what that is—I want it dead. Erchirite Spears! Call down the lightning.”
Something—it looked like a puddle with lots of legs. It moved fast up through one of the tunnels, chasing the [Miners]. It was climbing up the walls of dirt when the lightning hit it.
“Hard target to nail. Had to waste a [Pinpoint Target] on it.”
The Captain of the Erchirite Spears sounded a bit—nervous. Shellc’s voice was cold.
“It’s still alive.”
He didn’t have to see through the smoke or collapsing stone. Indeed, the [Major] averted his eyes and counted.
Another flash of lightning coming down. Then a third. A pause.
“Target’s dead. Oozing downwards—the area’s contaminated, sir. Likely.”
Three volleys of an Erchirite Spear company for one monster. Shellc whispered.
“Captain, how many times can your company volley in an engagement if you expend your spears’ and armor’s charges fully? Even if you have to sacrifice your gear.”
“…If we have to sacrifice our gear, thirty-five more times, sir.”
“I see. Hold until I have another target for you. Advance Miner, you’re being overrun.”
“If these idiots ran fast we’d be gone! Oh shit—”
That was when Shellc saw Georgie and six armored figures sprinting out of the lowest shafts. They saw more monsters moving up ahead of them. Shellc pointed.
“Now. Dump those chests of holding. Foreman Rolx, controlled avalanches. Knock the monsters down anywhere but our escape route.”
Dirt showered down, knocking down the monsters climbing the sides of the tunnels. Foreman Rolx struck the ground, and part of the dig site caved in—burying the climbing elementals. Shellc just watched the seven figures running upwards, dodging the monsters crawling around them.
They weren’t going to make it. A floating orb emerged out of the tunnel that Georgie’s group had fled from just as the crystal-elemental which had followed them out flexed its legs. Then—it jumped.
“Hells. They shouldn’t be allowed to do that.”
That was all Shellc said. He saw, for a moment, the elemental come up to eye-level. The [Major] drew his sword. Stabbed.
[Flashdraw]. [Distance Piercer]. [Explosive Tip].
His sword hit the flying crystal being and glanced off. Shellc grimaced as the tip of his sword exploded—and sent the being crashing down. But it didn’t do any satisfying damage. It got up and leapt again. At Georgie’s squad.
Shellc stared down into the dig site and spoke.
“Captain Asrira, fall back.”
That was what a good commander said, even if—he saw the Drake diving, still in her bandages, and twelve figures leaping down the slopes. Osthia breathed acid over the crystal elemental, who began to steam. The Sisters of Chell were throwing daggers, cursing as they wore their new leather armor.
Thirteen against—Shellc counted.
“Enemy appraisal is at four thousand and rising. Casting [Localized Earthquake]. Begin evacuating everyone.”
The ground rumbled, and his footing faltered. He saw the dig site collapsing inwards, and hoped it would slow the filth monsters. And it did…for a few seconds. Then his sense of the enemy noted them moving upwards again.
Can they dig? Shellc gritted his teeth.
They can adapt. Not good. We need to completely collapse things or take out whatever magic’s spawning them. But now he was ordering the full retreat. All his senses were screaming at him—
This was just the advance guard.
 
——
 
Georgie was running when the crystal elemental crashed down next to him and got up. It was fast. He saw the Rubirel Guard turning, but the insanely strong, tough thing was coming at them, and their only hope was to run. It was leaping, and he raised his pickaxe—
A Drake swooped down and breathed acid. She had one arm in a sling and a splinted leg, but she was still flying. Somehow, on broken wings. She drew a sword with her good hand, and the Sisters of Chell threw daggers.
—The crystal thing walked forwards, and its body bulged, then it shed its skin. Like a snake sloughing off the acid and leaving it behind. A size smaller, it came forwards, swinging a fist at Osthia, who flew back.
“Oh no.”
Boyd whispered as she threw a dagger at its face and the blade bounced off. She saw Osthia half-turn in the air, drawing breath to breathe again.
“I said don’t follow me! Fall back! Just keep the Rubirel Guard safe and retreat!”
Keep the Rubirel Guard safe—the armored Drakes hesitated, but everyone was shouting at them to run, run. The Crystal Elemental leapt again and smashed one of the Rubirel Guard into the scaffolding they were running up. The Drake in armor hacked at it, but his halberd just bounced off.
There were only two—no, three people who could damage it. Georgie lifted his pickaxe and hacked off several chunks of the crystal elemental’s body with the enchanted tip before it turned on him, and he backed up, swearing. Osthia breathed more acid, and Boyd—lifted her dagger.
[Heroic Stab].
She was shaking, and Osthia was shouting at her to run, but she reckoned she’d just seen something gleaming in the thing’s chest, revealed by Georgie’s pickaxe.
A gem, albeit foul-looking, like rainbows on sludge, in the center of its chest. Maybe…
The three of them were fighting. Darting around the crystal elemental. And then Osthia’s wings gave out. She faltered, fell, and the crystal thing raised a fist as Boyd leapt forwards. Stabbed—
Her blade went through the thing’s back and sprayed out crystals onto Georgie’s arms as he tried to grab Osthia. The [Advance Miner] recoiled, but the crystal being stumbled—head turned—and it fell forwards. Boyd stared down, and her dagger had shattered into a million pieces. But it was dead. She shot Osthia a trembling grin.
“How’dya like that? Told you I was in it. You—”
Her captain was just staring behind Boyd. Osthia’s face was calm as she rose. Boyd didn’t turn her head. She just leapt forwards—and something gouged the ground behind her. Then exploded.
When she turned her head, pieces of dirt showered down around her. She saw something—like a giant eel made of the same sludge, a thousand eyes of magical gems—twisting upwards. It had spines it fired upwards at Shellc’s forces. They exploded. Below the largest monster yet, the smaller sludge-elementals, were marching. Ahead of Georgie, Osthia, and Boyd, pursuing the Rubirel Guards who turned to look down, the shouting Sisters.
Ah.
Boyd squeezed her eyes shut. Then she glanced up.
“You can fly, right, Captain?”
Can you manage two people? One look at Osthia’s bandaged wings was the answer. The walls were sheer dirt—maybe they’d be able to climb? Boyd grinned desperately as Georgie eyed his pickaxe.
“Get out of here. I’ll collapse the tunnel on us. We’ll have time if they don’t dig us out.”
He shoved Osthia, and she spread her wings. She hesitated, regarding Boyd. Then she leapt up—and slammed into a wall. Something had plucked her out of the air and pinned her against the wall. Boyd gasped.
“Wh—”
The floating orb. It was sucking everything in. Magic, arrows—and Osthia was grabbing for purchase, trying to fly—Boyd saw it floating up, and Georgie raised his axe. Hesitated. Boyd drew a dagger.
[Heroic Stab] was on cooldown. But she had other stab-Skills. Could she lunge and—?
“Boyd, don’t—”
The Sister of Chell was smiling as she tensed. And Georgie—he shoved her back.
“Move aside, lady. This is a man’s job.”
He raised his pickaxe, bracing. Out of [Gouging Throws]. His scales were trying to pull themselves out of his face—his teeth were clenched around his cigar, and he stared at the pulsing orb. Did it hesitate? It seemed to. Then he heard those damn alarms pulse louder and swore he saw his life flash before his eyes.
It was brighter than he expected. Georgie raised the pickaxe with a shout, and then the light grew brighter. The orb floated towards him, stopped, floated back—
A spear made of brilliant, orange-pink light struck it in its center. Georgie recoiled and stopped sliding forwards. The gravity effect on him lessened. He saw the orb recoil, bulge, then absorb the spear made of light.
With…effort. It had to slowly yank the spear into it. It began floating downwards, and a second spear hit it dead-center. Then a third. The orb began to tremble. It expanded around the glowing weapons, which looked real to Georgie. A haft made of glowing light. But so detailed…
He was hesitating when something slashed through the Orb of Gravity’s center. It trembled, split in half, and then turned into a vortex which yanked Osthia, Boyd, and Georgie towards it. Imploding! It w—
The vortex vanished. The same glowing sword that had cut the orb apart swung again, and the gravity well disappeared. Then, Georgie, stumbling, came face to face with the being that had destroyed the monster. He looked down and saw his ancestors.
 
——
 
It had been a long time. So long. But some things were never forgotten, even by the turning of the wheel of ages.
A face. The face was that of a Drake. He resembled his descendants in so many ways. Perhaps…he had longer neck spines, that was all. Neck spines which were long and drooping in ways modern Drakes found unkempt, but he had threaded them with rings and beads, and they seemed like hair.
His armor was also the same. A breastplate with spread wings across the chest. And the symbol of his home, a Drake, with a claw raised upwards. The City of Purity’s emblem.
Even his boots were a perfect memory. Far thinner than a Human’s; they were made for a Drake’s clawed feet and had toe-caps made of steel. Or it would have been steel, but his body, his very nature, looked like light.
Orange and pink. Perfect to detail in every way, but no flesh. He was a magical being. No familiar. No summoned creature. Just a standard, albeit perfected—light construct.
He smiled as he swung his blade through the monster and advanced higher. Past the staring Drake holding a pickaxe identified as the property of Naamreles. Past the wounded Drake Oldblood and the Human.
Identification was required. But there was an order to his priorities. So the Drake opened his mouth and spat another spear.
That hadn’t been a power he’d had in life. But the copying spell was perfect to every other part of his nature. Even his voice.
“ALARM. TOLVEILOUKA THE WRETCHED HAS BEEN DETECTED. TO ARMS. The City of Purity marches! Monsters detected! Filth in proximity to Naamreles! Citizens, stand clear! I am—”
The eel-thing below fired more spines upwards, and two hit him. The talking Drake exploded in a shower of light magic. But his voice continued. Then, below, a hundred Drakes were advancing, pursuing the beings of rot, hacking them down, even the giant serpent. All saying the same thing.
“—Vnariss Stulvecrell, Light-Soldier! My regiment marches in defense of all that is pure and true!”
A copy of the same Drake kept advancing up the slopes, pursuing more monsters. Then another and another. There were hundreds, all with the same face. One of the versions of Vnariss turned, his boots coming together, and saluted.
“Drake citizens, {CITY UNKNOWN}, please follow me for your safety! You, sir, are you a citizen of Naamreles?”
He pointed at Georgie, and the Drake stuttered.
“Wh—h—”
Vnariss’ memory tilted his head, and he seemed to flicker for a second, in a way the Horns of Hammerad would have recognized. The same magic of the Trials of Shields…but Naamreles had given its magic to its friends.
“I did not understand that, sir. You are in distress. Please, follow me. To non-citizens of Naamreles, aspire to apply to the greatest Walled City of Issrysil. If you are worthy, even the unsuitable may polish their souls until they are reflected for eternity. Like me!”
He jabbed a thumb into his chest and smiled with all his teeth. And they saw him. Even ages later.
Vnariss Stulvecrell marched higher, and the light of the City of Purity followed him. The Putrid One’s minions had been detected. Rot had been found. He was just the first wave of the security systems.
The Purifiers were coming.
 
——
 
Osthia Blackwing didn’t know what was going on, but she could make a few inferences once the shock wore off.
We’ve found the City of Purity. Only, it’s not dead. These—someone activated the security systems. That half-Elf? Did they sense him or…?
They were fighting the monsters made of sludge. That Drake calling himself ‘Vnariss’ was engaged in combat across the dig site. He cut, hacked, spat those spears—he wasn’t nearly as good as he might have been with Skills, but there were so many of him, and his weapons cleaved through the monsters.
Most of them.
A crystal elemental like the one that had nearly killed the Rubirel Guard was fighting twenty of the glowing Drakes, smashing a fist across their ranks, but every time it shattered one, another stepped in. And their weapons barely damaged its crystal body, but they had no end—
Legions of light-Drakes. Constructs. This—
Was this the treasure? If they had this, they could field—Osthia’s mind was only focused on that smiling Drake trying to escort them to ‘safety’.
There was something about the Drake who had once been Vnariss Stulvecrell which drove the living to silence. He was old.
Oh, the constructs didn’t know it. They were just beings of light, temporarily summoned, and faithful copies. But even the template they were using was…frayed.
Like an old picture. He smiled, he fought, he spoke with those ringing tones, an icon chosen to represent the City of Purity, but he felt ancient.
Still, he marched upwards, and Osthia saw one of the Rubirel Guard above her stop, yank off his helmet, and wipe at his eyes.
Even now, he serves. Our buried cities—a myth was marching upwards. Osthia wanted to believe it was just salvation. But because she was a Drake who knew her kind—she put a hand on her sword’s hilt.
“Boyd, Georgie. Get behind me.”
She rasped, and the Drake soldier tilted its head.
“Non-citizen, you appear to be wounded. {SEARCHING DATABASE. CRIMINAL ENTRY NOT FOUND.}”
A pale, white light came from its eyes and swept Osthia up and down. She felt a tingle, but the Drake smiled.
“You are entitled to Naamreles’ mercy, citizen. Please, follow me until a supervisor can attend to you. This area is now under military law. Do not deviate from instructions.”
“Ah, c’mon, it’s like the Watch? Don’t that shit in our boots.”
Boyd was, perhaps, the fastest to pick up on the catch. The glowing Drake heard her. And its smile lessened slightly.
“Human. {SEARCHING DATABASE. CRIMINAL ENTRY NOT FOUND}. You are entitled to Naamreles’ mercy as well.”
The light flashed over Boyd as the copy of Vnariss’ eyes shone again, and then it paused. Amended its statement.
“<Criminal> class detected. Human, you are under arrest. Do not resist.”
So saying, the Drake aimed a sword at Boyd. It advanced at a fast walk, and Osthia drew her sword. Barred its way.
“Don’t. She’s with me—”
“Non-citizen, you are interfering with a military operation. Your case has been sent to a supervisor. Appraising…”
The Drake’s head turned again, and this time, the scanning of its eyes was slower. It swept Osthia up and down, and she felt naked, but kept her sword raised. What the light construct said next was where the glorious myth faded.
“Analysis complete. Drake Oldblood, 81.4% genetic viability. Congratulations, non-citizen! You are qualified for {Class 2 Citizenship}! You will be protected. Scanning…”
It hit Georgie and Boyd with the same light as they tried to back behind each other. The construct spoke.
“Analysis complete. Human, 43% viability. Ineligible for citizenship. Analysis complete. Drake, 65.5% viability. Congratulations, non-citizen! You are qualified for {Class 4 Limited Citizenship} upon approval. If you are a hired laborer, please present your card now.”
“What the heck is it talking about? This—what is this thing, Captain?”
Georgie was wide-eyed, backing up from the light construct, but it was barring the way out. Osthia just shifted.
“I think it’s from the City of Purity. It’s some kind of security system, like the Terlands’ damn Golems. But it doesn’t know the city is gone…try to get around it.”
The Drake’s face watched them as they edged around. But when Boyd tried to get to the entrance, its sword raised.
“Halt, criminal. Non-citizens, force will now be employed if you interfere.”
“Great—”
Now the legions of light-soldiers became a new threat in Osthia’s eyes. Just once, could they not find something good buried in the earth?
No one buried things that were actually good and valuable. Osthia blocked the light soldier’s path. It inspected her.
“Class 2 potential non-citizen is acting in hostile manner. Subdue. Class 3+ non-citizens are acting in hostile manner. Terminate.”
“Aw, c’mon—”
It swung its sword at Boyd’s head, and she ducked. Osthia slashed, and her enchanted sword cut across the light-soldier’s face and met resistance. Like that of hitting something hard, yet fragile. She saw motes of light spray upwards. The Drake recoiled—then spoke.
“Non-citizen. You will be placed under arrest following—”
Georgie buried his pickaxe in the Drake’s arm. The enchanted pickaxe tore the arm off the construct’s body with ease. Instantly, the construct began swinging with its remaining arm. Osthia lunged again, stabbed through its chestplate, and sprayed it with acid.
“Citiz—”
She twisted the blade and had to stab two more times. The light-soldier was heavier and harder to shift than she would have thought! But once she got it off the ground, she rammed it into a wall, and Boyd’s dagger punched into a shoulder. At last—it exploded in a shower of motes.
“Damn, it’s easier than the filth-things. C’mon, Captain, let’s run for—”
They were moving out of the tunnel when five more light-soldiers all wearing Vnariss’ face marched forwards.
“Non-citizens, drop your—”
All of them ran. Well, Osthia flew for it. She winged upwards and saw Boyd and Georgie sprinting behind her. The light-soldiers didn’t run. They marched forwards, and Osthia thought that was a good thing, easy to outrun. Then she saw their mouths opening, and one began to fire a glowing spear—
Osthia swooped them and sprayed the lot with acid. It…didn’t seem to do anything to the light-soldiers, but they regarded her, and she flew higher. Boyd and Georgie, uninhibited by others, were sprinting for it with the speed only a Sister of Chell and Advance Miner could muster. But above them…Osthia gained altitude, her wounded wings screaming, and murmured.
“Oh no.”
The wave of sludge monsters was almost gone. She had assumed that they had been the infestation that had ended Naamreles, but in fact, they were practically all vaporized already. Literally. Even the giant eel-thing was lying in pieces.
The Drake constructs were too numerous, too efficient. But that begged the question of why those filth-monsters had even been allowed to…?
The problem was now the legions of identical Drakes climbing higher. They might not have been thinking beings, but whomever had made them wasn’t stupid.
“Foreign non-citizens. You are all under arrest. Lay down your weapons. No army has been authorized within the City of Purity’s aegis. Surrender or be destroyed.”
Someone up top, Shellc perhaps, had realized the same thing as Osthia. The light-soldiers were attacking Salazsar’s [Soldiers]! Arrows were bouncing off their hard light-bodies, and they were firing arrows up, spitting spears, slashing—the Rubirel Guard were holding one of the exits to the dig site, and their armor was resisting the blades of the copies of Vnariss. For now.
“Major Shellc! That Drake claimed to be regiment-strength. It scans you, and if you’re not genetically viable or something, it’s happy to kill you!”
“Acknowledged, Captain. Get your people out of there. Hurry! Something else is coming up. Every [Mage] can feel it.”
Major Shellc’s voice was terse, and Osthia whirled. She saw Boyd sprinting up to join the small squad. Asrira’s Bitches (working name) were clustered together. Osthia almost dive-bombed them as her wings gave out.
“Captain, what the heck are those? We’re not getting paid for—”
Marrygold was aiming a hand crossbow down into the excavation site. Georgie and Boyd sprinted past the Rubirel Guard, who hauled them up as Osthia gasped.
“Just get ready. Something’s coming. We need to evacuate.”
“Evacuate? They did the job of killing those damn monsters for us. Can’t we identify ourselves or something? They’re not that hostile—”
That was Advisor Merls. Osthia and Boyd glanced at each other, and the [Wing Captain] shook her head.
“They’re unthinking automatons from another age, and they believe the Putrid One’s around! Fall back! Where’s Shellc?”
She was glad to see he was pulling the [Miners] back, but it was still slow. They were jogging across the ground—but he didn’t have enough [Soldiers].
Georgie was looking around for his team. He saw Maiss and the miners of his squad jogging towards the camp.
“Those idiots—just run! Maiss, Maiss, not that way—”
Osthia concurred. They had to launch a full evacuation. She was arguing that to Merls, who wanted to try to parlay with the light-soldiers, when her scales prickled. The shouting from below turned to screams.
Then it was light. And the final, or as Tolveilouka would have said, real guardians of the City of Light showed themselves.
 
——
 
It was not like the copy of Vnariss. He walked and spoke with the pre-programmed lines they’d used after taking his personality and form. This was something else, albeit still seeming made of light.
A brighter light. Its form was indistinct, if you could even look at it without being blinded. But when Captain Osthia shielded her eyes, she saw the vague outline.
It looked like a being with a long tail, neck spines, and claws. A Drake.
With wings.
The Purifier flew upwards in a flash of light, and when it hovered in the air, she saw a twin-halo hovering above its head. Its wings cast a nimbus of light around it that seemed to purify the very air, removing the permanent scent of cattle-dung. It had no eyes she could see, nor features.
The Purifier rotated slowly. Spotted the remains of one of the sludge monsters that the Rubirel Guard had destroyed. It flew downwards, ignoring Merls shouting at it, the Rubirel Guard backing up, weapons raised.
The Purifier was…big. It was sixteen feet tall. It moved faster than Osthia through the air, and when it pointed down, she knew it had magic. Because it ‘spoke’ with a voice as dispassionate and monotonous as what you thought a Golem’s voice would be.
It said:
“[Mass Cleanse].”
The filth on the ground, the Rubirel Guard’s armor, and even the dirt on Osthia’s scales from the fighting—some blood from her wounds that had broken open—all vanished.
She tingled. And she swore the Purifier grew slightly bigger. It turned.
“{Filth detected. Cleansing.}”
It fired the spell around it, cleaning everything—even sucking some of the dirt up and leaving bare, polished stone around it. Then it seemed to detect the Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans surrounding it. The Purifier stared down.
“{Non-citizens in noncompliance. Genetic viability 33%.}”
It gazed down at Merls. He raised his claws.
“I am from Salazsar. In the name of the City of G—”
The Purifier drew a sword.
“{Eradicating}.”
It slashed through Merls, hit one of the Rubirel Guard who had tried to block the blow, which tossed Maisy across the ground. The cut was bloodless. Merls’ torso and body collapsed, smoking, and the Purifier studied the corpse.
“[Mass Cleanse]. {Eradicating}.”
It hit one of the Rubirel Guard next, and the blade didn’t shear through the armor—so the Purifier grabbed the Rubirel Guard up and squeezed. The armor shook as the Drake writhed, and Osthia slashed at the Purifier’s legs with the Sisters of Chell.
Unlike the light-soldiers, her weapons bounced off its ‘flesh’. And then she heard the armor above her screaming a warning before the enchantments gave—
The crunch was followed by that voice.
“[Mass Cleanse].”
A bloodless corpse dropped. The Purifier turned, and a bolt of lightning struck it in the head. For a second, it wavered. Then continued. Osthia slashed into its neck, and the Purifier caught her. Inspected her. She wriggled, waiting for it to crush—
It put her on the ground. Then a hand grabbed Osthia.
“Non-citizen. You are under arrest pending—”
The copies of Vnariss. They were coming up. Dozens of light-soldiers, and more by the second. They were speaking.
“A Purifier has been summoned. Witness the City of Purity’s greatest protectors.”
“Resist and you will be cleansed.”
“Analyzing non-citizens for genetic viability…”
Osthia tore her arm free and elbowed the construct holding her in the face. It did virtually nothing, but she managed to leg-sweep it and flew upwards.
“Fall back! Fall back—Sisters of Chell! On me! Hold them back!”
She flew straight at the Purifier again and saw her squad attacking the light-soldiers. They were outmatched; the Purifier was glancing around for the lightning bolt’s sender. It caught sight of a [Mage]. Opened its mouth.
The ray of light burned through the [Mage]’s barrier spells and scorched a six-foot wide hole in the ground. Osthia slashed across the Purifier’s face and her blade didn’t leave a mark. She saw it turning, reaching up for her, gently even, like someone trying to catch a butterfly it didn’t want to hurt.
Could she distract it? Shellc was shouting at her to retreat. Osthia was peering down at her squad. Not them. She couldn’t let them—
She had hopes of doing something. Right up until the ground exploded in the dig site. The second Purifier stood, wings unfurling.
It was nearly twice as big as the last one. When it flew upwards, it was slowly. But with a terrible momentum to it. Osthia gazed downwards and then saw a claw breaking the ground. And she realized there was another Purifier down there too.
One so big it was having to squeeze through the tunnels. The two Purifiers landed on the top of the dig site, and both had swords. They were chopping anyone not ‘genetically viable’ into pieces.
That—that was the only reason everyone wasn’t dead. The light-soldiers and Purifiers would slow before each [Soldier] and [Miner] they came across. The Purifiers seemed to be able to scan in less than half a second—the light-soldiers required a few seconds, and if their targets were moving, they had to re-scan.
One of the Purifiers was pursuing a band of Silverfang Gnolls. One of the mining teams—it had its sword raised, and it towered over the tiny Gnolls. It ignored Osthia trying to stab through its brain—her sword was doing nothing! She needed Georgie’s pick! Where was he? She couldn’t leave a mark with anything, and she saw the [Mages]’ magic was just as useless on the Purifiers.
The Purifier bent and picked up one of the Gnolls who’d stopped to buy the others time. He lashed out at its hand, shouting Skills. It was the huge Ekhtouch Gnoll, the [Miner].
Thamert. He froze as the Purifier spoke.
“{Analysis. Genetic viability 89.25%. Congratulations, Gnoll. You are viable for Class 1 citizenship.}”
It put him down. Thamert staggered and seemed bewildered and mildly outraged. An Ekhtouch Gnoll wasn’t even…?
No one else was passing the tests if Osthia was barely 80%. How many Drakes were even Oldblood, let alone both kinds like Osthia? Now she saw it.
City of Purity. The Purifiers were still casting [Mass Cleanse]. In fact, the Purifier that had grabbed Thamert began to attack the Gnolls, then looked down.
“{Excrement. Cow. Removing…} [Mass Cleanse].”
It pointed at a patch of ground and removed the manure. Paused. Pointed.
“[Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. {Marking for further cleaning.}”
It had to do it twice more before it was satisfied. Then it took two lumbering steps after the Gnolls. Stopped.
“{Excrement. Cow. Insect nest. Ant. Removing…}”
Osthia caught her breath at last as she saw the second Purifier slow. The Purifiers might be higher-grade magic, but they were as stupid as, well, Golems. They were obsessively cleaning around the dig site, and she remembered the mining tunnels. Even the mines had been paved. Was the City of Purity supposed to all be like that?
But this was no stone city, this was a literal cow pasture. She grinned as she saw the two Purifiers stall out. Right up until she realized that the light-soldiers weren’t slowing. They were marching in ranks, coming forwards—and then some idiot decided to hit them with a lightning bolt. The bolt blew apart a group of light-soldiers—and a Purifier’s head snapped up. It abandoned cleaning and raised its sword.
A half-Giant made of light, who spat a ray of light. Osthia looked around and saw her squad fleeing its footsteps. It went to stomp, and the Sisters of Chell dove aside. Osthia cried out.
“Run! Run, you idiots!”
She’d meant for them to buy a second and disengage! But they’d kept fighting. Now, the Purifier’s head swung down with slow wrath. Osthia tried to put herself in the path of it as the third Purifier’s head rose over the excavation pit. Not again.
Had they bought anyone time?
 
——
 
Desperate Sisters of Chell being lifted in the Purifier’s grasp. One of the Sisters was pinned by a Drake light-construct because she could be a Class 2 citizen.
Boyd saw the Purifier taking Marrygold higher. The Sister screaming. Shouting at Boyd to run as Osthia hacked at the arm. The [Brave Knife] raised a backup blade.
She croaked as she saw the hand begin to tighten.
“[Heroic Stab].”
She plunged the tip of her dagger into the Purifier’s clawed foot. That was how big it was. Her knife actually pierced the glowing light-flesh, the first time anyone had wounded the damn thing. With the equivalent of a splinter’s amount of damage.
Boyd saw the Purifier pause, glance down at her, and she was backing up, already running. Tears in her eyes. But she kept watching Marrygold. To commit that face to Osthia’s memorial, if Boyd lived. If anyone lived.
The Purifier opened its mouth, aimed at Boyd, and exploded.
Its body detonated outwards in a flash of light, and then something hit Boyd. Tossed her through the air, screaming and pinwheeling, until Osthia caught her.
“I got you. I got—”
They landed, tumbling, and Osthia re-broke her wings and lay there, cursing. Then pushed herself up.
“Run! R—”
She turned, and Boyd glanced around. They saw Marrygold, Sadmile, the other members of her squad…sitting or lying in the grass. Staring around.
“You killed it? With a stab?”
She did? Boyd couldn’t believe it. It had popped! Like an overinflated pig bladder or water flask! She was pretty sure it wasn’t supp—
Then the smell hit her. Boyd stared down at something on her body and vomited. Osthia drew a breath and puked.
“What is—”
It was all over them. Something black and so foul that it ruined Boyd’s sense of smell in a moment. She heaved again, and that was a pleasant experience to the taste of it on her tongue. She hadn’t even gotten it in her mouth. The rest of the Sisters were even worse! It was, wait—
“Was that inside the Purifier-thing?”
Boyd turned, disbelieving, and saw the world’s largest cowpat still slopping down. Where the Purifier’s body had been—there was just compacted filth spreading outwards. The Sisters leapt up as the light-soldiers spoke.
“Purifier down. Sending for reinforcements.”
“Unacceptable levels of filth detected. Calling for emergency Purifiers.”
“Warning. Monster germination detected.”
—In the same moment, the sludge rippled, and some of it shot up. An eyestalk with a glowing magicore eye swivelled around, then a slug seemed to grow and slither out of the muck. A monster?
A filth-monster, like the ones that had just attacked the dig site. It made it three feet before a dozen light-spears skewered it. Another piece of the filth began to animate, probably because it was so concentrated.
Potentially, so magical. There was that black magicore in—Boyd and Osthia were backing away as the light-soldiers began to hack at the stuff. They were calling all kinds of alarms. Then another Purifier landed.
This one was over forty feet tall. How it had gotten out of the dig site tunnels, Boyd had no clue. Had it squeezed up here? Excavated the entire thing? Whatever the case, the Purifier swept a blade across the muck, killing whatever was germinating.
“[Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]—”
It was cleaning the muck up. Osthia and Boyd watched, and both had a feeling about what was going to happen next. Because, each time the spell was cast, the Purifier got larger. First, it was forty-some feet tall. Then fifty. It was trying to absorb a lot of filth, after all. About, say…sixteen feet’s worth of filth?
It almost managed it. The Purifier was about fifty-five feet tall when it stopped casting spells. It pointed a finger at the remaining puddle of moving filth.
“[Mass Cl—]”
Then it exploded. Osthia, Boyd, and the squad of Sisters saw the magic bindings of the Purifier rupture. They stared up as a rain of blackness began showering down. Looked at each other.
Then they ran for it. Then, Boyd swore she saw her crazy captain laughing. Osthia had tears running down the filth caked onto her body.
“That? That’s the doom of Naamreles?”
It was just one of those things experienced [Mages] told younger ones. Stop relying on [Cleanse] and wash your underwear. No spell’s perfect. And some young [Mage] would wonder why anyone knew that. Or wonder—if you [Cleansed] something, where did all the dirt go?
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss didn’t know what was going on with Dig Site B. He heard only chaos, Major Shellc shouting orders—then some clarity.
“We are under attack from light-constructs, Wall Lord! It’s an entire damn army and some kind of super-summons capable of flight, Tier 5 attack spells—”
Oh no. The City of Purity was awake. Ilvriss was galloping towards the dig sites, shouting the alarm in the next moment. It was Lyonette du Marquin who was too slow to follow.
“Ilvriss, wait, I’ll get Ulva and—Ishkr, go find Xitegen now!”
Ishkr ran for the portal door. Lyonette whirled.
“Someone go after Ilvriss! Tell me what’s going on—not you, Nanette—and keep in contact!”
To her relief, the witch wasn’t running after Ilvriss, but into the inn.
“I’ll watch with the [World’s Eye Theatre]!”
“Good idea! Ilvriss, don’t—he’s gone.”
She ran a few steps out into the Cowpat Plains before Ser Dalimont caught her.
“Your Highness, my arm’s broken, and you can’t endanger yourself!”
“Marquin’s remaining breast, I can’t! Let go of me, Dalimont!”
They were arguing as the door closed behind them; Liska was sending Ishkr to Invrisil, and Lyonette’s heart was in her throat.
“Why now? No one was stupid enough to dig today, surely! Did it have to be this moment? After Tolveilouka, that bastard? Could anything else go wrong?”
Someone coughed behind her.
“Er, well, funny you should mention that. Now, look. I admit, we got a bit heated. I tried to turn you into a plague thing, you said hurtful things about my master—”
Lyonette froze. Ser Dalimont drew his sword, and Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer raised his hands.
“I’m just here t—”
Lyonette drew a crossbow and aimed it at him. He kept his hands raised. Tolveilouka had…a hole in his forehead. Dalimont and Lyonette stared through the hole and his pulsing brains, then lowered their weapons. Tolveilouka noticed and patted at the hole.
“Damn, is that still there? It stings like—listen. Things might not be going according to plan. See, I was helping you out.”
What? Neither [Princess] nor Thronebearer said a word. They just exchanged glances and stared back at Tolveilouka. The half-Elf put his hands in his pockets. Kicked a rock.
“Okay, look. I’m sorry about the dead Wall Lord. He seemed nice. Brave. Tell you what, I could reanimate his corpse? There’s some kinds of undead that grow on you. I’ll make sure he’s a nice one—well, nice as they get. I felt bad about it, really. He and I had a heart-to-heart, and I think I was respecting him near the end. Real composure in the face of death, that fellow.”
He’s not dead. Lyonette almost said that, and Ser Dalimont stepped gently on one foot. Neither one said a word. Tolveilouka glanced at them. Put his fingers together and took a breath.
“Okay, and the City of Purity…listen. I was hoping it was inactive. Turns out, it’s not. So, um, you’re about five hundred miles away from here. Great. Just close the door and I bet you they’ll get stopped before then. I’ll help! You just have to snipe the Purifiers when they’re distracted. Three-dozen in one place and even a Dragon has a bad day, and they’re sort of diametrically opposed to my nature. Hard to fight. A hundred and, well, everything’s dead. The rest of the light-armies aren’t that bad.”
Purifier. Light armies. Lyonette twitched, and Tolveilouka held up his hands.
“I know what you’re thinking, and I’m upset with me. But here’s what you need to know: they’re not perfect. Most are pretty damn big; they’re full of shit. Literal shit. That’s what [Cleanse] spells do. You think all that dirt and stuff goes nowhere? It’s in a mini-dimension attached to you. That’s why the first time any [Mage] opens a portal dimension connected to their magic it’s filled with crap if they’ve cast [Cleanse]. Normally, it’s not a problem, but if you keep doing it, well. Naamreles invented [Cleanse], and so they didn’t get the memo.”
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder and smiled.
“Actually, that’s how they killed themselves. That and selecting only the most ‘pure’ candidates for their citizenship. See, the Purifiers sweep up all the mess, but they reached a critical mass long ago. So new ones keep getting made, but once they sweep up too much shit, they explode. Then the cycle repeats. The security systems must have been fighting their own filth for, I don’t know, at least a few thousand years? Hilarious.”
He slapped his chest, shook his head.
“That’s why we buried the City of Purity; they killed themselves trying to purify their own ranks. Then their automated legions attacked everything mindlessly. No one wanted them around by that point, anyways. The problem was, it turned out their magic was good enough to keep going and doing the same damn thing. Hence why we had to bury them. There’s filth-monsters as big as half-Giants down there. Imagine being a citizen of the ‘City of Purity’, choking to death on the filth your city kept trying to clean! Those [Miners] your lot found were probably trying to escape and ran out of food and water!”
He laughed. Hesitated as he saw his audience hadn’t joined him. Tolveilouka cleared his throat.
“Ahem. So…now they’re loose, and they’ll probably execute anyone ‘impure’, which is mostly everyone. If you’re lucky, the Purifiers will explode and slow the others down, but uh, the light-armies are probably going to enslave anyone not pure, and the ‘citizens’ will be taken below where they’ll probably die of starvation. They’re—well, the Purifiers are the real threats…but the City of Purity’s armies are pretty damn…look, just close the door. I’ll throw rocks at them or something. I just need to, uh, get some weapons and heal up.”
He touched the hole in his forehead again. Winced. Tolveilouka gave Lyonette a thumbs up.
“I was helping.”
He backed up a few steps.
“I tried to. Look, you try it.”
The half-Elf turned, jogged off, hesitated, and then jogged back.
“When you think abou—”
Lyonette shot him in the face with her crossbow. Tolveilouka slowly pulled the bolt out of his nose and eyed her.
“I suppose you deserve to do that. Do it again and I’m breaking your fingers. Right…good luck with that.”
He ran off, then shouted.
“I mean it about ‘run’! You all suck if you can’t even get me to Phase 2! Stop shooting crossbow bolts at me, I’m just trying to help—”
He ran off. Lyonette and Ser Dalimont stood there in silence until the door burst open.
“Lyonette! It’s horrible! There’s Drakes made of light attacking, a-and Nanette sees more coming from below, but she can’t see the City of Purity because it’s warded!”
Hethon was waving his arms and panicking. Lyonette and Dalimont turned. After a moment, she nodded.
“We’ll be there right away, Hethon. Tell Nanette to inform everyone we know. And keep an eye on Ilvriss.”
He nodded and ran. She looked back at Ser Dalimont. He glanced around.
“Given where we were, I don’t think anyone could have seen…”
“Good. Dalimont? Not a word to—”
“Of course.”
More silence. Lyonette mouthed a few words, then exhaled.
“Helping.”
“Evidently, Lyonette.”
She felt at her face. At her arms, which had nearly turned into putrid flesh. Glanced at the ground he’d destroyed. Thought about Ilvriss.
“Dalimont?”
“Yes, Your Highness?”
“Find me a way to get on his bad side.”
“How, Your Highness?”
“I don’t know, a mean poem or something.”
Then she was running. But Lyonette didn’t forget this was definitely all Tolveilouka’s fault.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss heard the frantic fighting as he raced towards the Cowpat Plains and the dig site at top speed. By the time Lyonette appeared, panting what she’d been told at him, he didn’t question it. He just gave orders.
“Welsca, are you there?”
“Here, Wall Lord!”
He looked around and saw her actually flying past him. She had wings. And her scales were fire-red, not his prismatic—she was trailing smoke as she panted. Ilvriss’ own wings stirred, then he just began shouting.
“Here are my orders: Evacuate Thirthoof. Evacuate the base camp, and warn every [Rancher] in the region! Tell them what’s coming, and if they don’t listen, get them to just look this way!”
He wagered they could see the light attacks and maybe even the damn Purifiers, they were so big. Ilvriss kept shouting.
“Get me Master Oidhol as well!”
“Yes, s—Master Oidhol?”
Of all the Drakes—Ilvriss ignored Welsca and fished out a speaking stone.
“Major Shellc, are you there? I want you to retreat back to our base camp or further if needed! Do not engage those constructs!”
“I hear you, Wall Lord. But it’s a damn fighting retreat. Your Captain Asrira and her squad refuse to fall back. They’ve taken down a Purifier, but they insist on holding the line.”
Osthia? Ilvriss’ head was spinning from his near-death experience. He hadn’t slept. He really wanted a lie-down in Erin’s inn. He was sharp and fuzzy, like he was dying. But he just rode, and his lungs felt like they were glittering from the inside, if that was even a sensation. He toggled the speaking stone and hit mass-communications by accident.
It didn’t matter.
“Ilvriss to all forces, fall back! That means you, [Major]!”
Welsca turned, mid-conversation with a confused Master Oidhol. Did he mean Captain Asrira? Her rank had fluctuated a bit, but—then she heard the voice coming back.
“Wall Lord? We have to hold the line. Someone has to.”
Osthia Blackwing sounded…too calm. Welsca recognized it as a warning sign from her Manus training. Shock. The [Wing Captain] was a veteran who’d lost her entire command at least once.
“The army will be wiped out, sir. Requesting permission to hold the line.”
“Denied. Get out of there, [Major]. You and your forces.”
“Nossir. Someone’s got to cover the retreat, General.”
This time, Welsca’s head snapped around, and she nearly lost control and slammed into the ground. But Ilvriss was just galloping ahead. And…
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was listening from the [World’s Eye Theatre]. She could see Captain Osthia. Both wings broken, and she was reeling.
The light-soldiers had refrained from attacking them until she’d hacked the twentieth one apart. Then they’d decided she wasn’t worth protecting. The only thing that had saved her was the cloth-armor that Ilvriss had bought for her from Honored Deskie. Eight light-spears had nailed her in the chest, and she was—mostly—unhurt.
But it looked like one had hit her in the helmet. Her squad was hunkered down in Dig Site B’s camp, fighting from the fortifications there. Drakes and Gnolls were evacuating the camps, but some teams, like Maiss’, weren’t immediately fleeing.
More were doing the things Drakes did. Captain Osthia spoke muzzily as scrying spells began coming in from Salazsar.
Dramm and the other spies were calling ten kinds of alarms, and regular citizens and Wall Lords were tuning in. Not the news, not yet. No one had bothered telling them.
What they saw were light-Drakes pouring out of a hole in the ground. Vast titans with halos and wings, patterned off another species, an ideal, battling foul monsters made of sludge. And what the citizens of Salazsar heard was Wall Lord Ilvriss’ voice, cracking, panting, and Asrira Shieldscale. Shouting at each other, confused.
“Drakes don’t run, General! We can hold them.”
Osthia swung her sword through a light-Drake’s neck. She stumbled, and someone caught her. Her squad. The Goblin Lord’s army was everywhere—no, the light-constructs. She was shouting. At General Thrissiam. Or was it General Garusa? It didn’t matter. He was bellowing nonsense in her earhole.
“That’s Dragondung, [Major]! I just gave you an order!”
“Order ignored, sir. What’s best for everyone is I stay.”
Another wave was coming. Her squad—Osthia was motioning them back, but they were good soldiers. They wouldn’t run.
One could save a hundred lives. Her commander was bellowing orders as well, but General Thrissiam just shouted back.
“That’s enough. I told you to retreat, Periss! Get out of there! Please.”
Periss? Who? Osthia began to croak, then saw another Drake climbing the trenches. She kicked a face in with her boots as someone knifed the bastard.
“Sir, I’m needed here—protocol dictates the commanding officer—”
“Hang the protocol. Retreat, Periss. I can’t lose you. What good are our heroes if we have to keep making them? Please. Run.”
The [Sister of the Unforgotten] realized that Ilvriss wasn’t talking to her at last. He was talking at her. Osthia’s head turned. She snapped out of the haze and saw the wounded Sisters around her. For a moment, she saw the pile of the dead. Then General Thrissiam waving at her—
She swore she saw Periss for a second, slowly regarding her as she sat, sharpening a blade and waiting for the next battle. None of them spoke, but their eyes—
Periss, Osthia, whatever her name was, turned.
“…Fall back in order. No one dies here. Squad, give me [Lesser Acidbreath] and run.”
The glowing forms climbing the trenches were greeted by a salute of acid. They paused only a second—then they cleared the trenches. No one met them with blades at the top. They marched into the camp, and the lines were breaking. Osthia was running.
Salazsar watched Drakes running and heard Ilvriss shouting a dead woman’s name.
But if that rattled them—
They’d seen nothing yet.
 
——
 
Advance Miner Georgie knew what Maiss and his team were doing. Either they were panicking and grabbing their possessions, thinking they needed their pay or gear and putting that above their lives, or they were looting everyone else’s stuff in the chaos.
Fair enough, he’d done both. But this wasn’t a disaster anyone would survive. And they were his team, damnit—
“Maiss! Maiss, run, damnit! This isn’t the time t—”
He took a moment to find where the entire team had run into their tents. The makeshift barracks were more organized than most [Miners]’ messy cots with possessions strewn around. There was a temporary gymnasium next door, and Maiss’ team had always been weird.
Too many breaks. Too bad at their jobs, yet no one said a word up top. And Maiss himself…
He seemed calm as he knelt over a trunk in the center of the room. The rest of the team, Drakes and Gnolls, were shucking their clothing. Putting other clothing on, belting up—Georgie skidded to a stop, then bellowed.
“Are you insane? We have to run!”
Maiss whirled, then smiled.
“Advance Miner, you made it. Good. Get out of here. We’re doing our jobs. You’ve done yours.”
“What? Are you mad? Don’t be a hero—those light-things are everywhere, and the big ones are crushing the Rubirel Guard!”
Maiss kept pulling things out of the trunk, tossing them at his team. He adjusted his belt, and someone brought something over and threw it over his chest and began buckling it secure. A…breastplate?
Mining Team Leader Maiss glanced up, and his eyes were too calm. Not confident; there was a tightness there as he grunted.
“I know. Tier 3 spells have no effect on the big ones. Piercing Skills and high magic. Pop ‘em and the others get distracted. Advance Miner, fall back.”
“That’s armor. What’s going on?”
Georgie’s mind felt slow. Trouble he was good at detecting and running from. But what was…?
It was when Maiss stood and clipped a speaking stone into a holster at his ear that it clicked for Georgie. Maiss was wearing a metal breastplate and chainmail underneath it. He had on leg armor, even tail armor, and when he put on his helmet, only his jaw was visible; the jawguard wouldn’t fit anymore.
He grimaced and tossed the piece of metal aside. Maiss checked his belt, and he had a sword on one side with a spiked shield on the other, a backup wand, backup shortsword—then he was so familiar Georgie just blinked.
The [Soldier] turned and barked.
“Company, fall in! We’re up to our earholes in magical constructs! You heard the Wall Lord! Fall back and link with Major Shellc’s forces! Holiday’s over, boys and girls!”
“You—you were just—”
Squads of grim Drakes and Gnolls were moving out the doors, armed to the teeth in metal. Not just metal; Maiss had been tossing enchanted munitions and artifacts at his company. They wouldn’t have fit in a bag of holding with that much magic.
Maiss patted Georgie on the shoulder, then towed him towards the door.
“I told you I saw the Winter Solstice. And the Goblin Lord, and the Tidebreaker too. Do you think the Wall Lord really marched all this way north with only a token force? Sorry about the bad mining. Stick with us. Let’s go!”
Then they were barrelling out of the tents, and more teams were shedding their disguises and revealing their true colors. A rank of crossbows sank to one knee and fired; they cut down the glowing Naamreles soldiers, and then everyone was up and running. Fighting a retreat as Captain Osthia whirled.
Major Shellc’s voice was steady as it pulsed out of Maiss’ earpiece.
“Colonel, tell me your forces are ready for a fight. We’re headed to Fallback Point B. I’m going to slow the advance of the constructs with our Gem Regiments, but they won’t last long. Do not engage those Purifiers. Wall Lord Ilvriss has a plan to delay them, which means we’ll only be facing the constructs.”
“Yessir, Major, we are on the move. Only a few legions of Naamreles’ finest?”
“That’s the spirit, Colonel.”
Then Georgie saw a real army running and moving into place. His mouth was still open as he ran. He turned—and Captain Osthia was just as dumbfounded as her squad whooped and cheered.
In her case, she’d forgotten Ilvriss’ plan.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland’s eyes narrowed as she saw Drake [Soldiers] pouring out of the dig site. They were making for a seemingly-unmarked stretch of grass miles away from their base camp. [Miners] were milling about, but an entire third of the original dig force had revealed armor and weapons.
“That damn Drake brought a real army north. I knew it!”
“Under the circumstances, Aunt, we should be so lucky. What are we going to do?”
Xitegen was panting as he jogged in the scrying orb. She glanced at him; she was in Invrisil, counting the damage that half-Elf had done, and she’d been organizing a taskforce to wipe him out for good and his damn home.
Now this. Her temples hurt. Ulva snapped at Xitegen.
“Do? That fool’s the one who unearthed all this!”
“I think I heard them screaming about the Putrid One’s minions. Might not be his fault—”
“Silence. Where are you, Xitegen?”
She squinted, then realized the background he was running across seemed mighty familiar. Grass and flatness and—
“Are you going to help the Drake?”
“Aunt, a Walled City has just begun spewing super-Drakes into the sky. I heard enough when Timekeeper began screaming the alarm about Naamreles. Under what scenario shouldn’t I be concerned?”
Primera, Seconda, and every Golem he had was running with him, she realized. Ulva Terland hissed.
“You idiot, I am not wasting more Terland lives—”
“Only later when they’re fully assembled and marching on the north, Aunt?”
That drew her up. She drummed her fingers on her dais’ armrest, then turned her head away.
“Timekeeper, is this Naamreles’ worst? What else do they have?”
She waited for a response. Then peered around.
“Timekeeper? Where the hell is he?”
Still repairing himself? Ulva Terland closed her eyes and sensed—
 
——
 
Timekeeper was striding into the streets of Invrisil when Ulva Terland kicked open a window and leapt out.
He caught her, of course. She snapped as the Terlands rushed out; half their Golems were marching with him!
“Timekeeper! What are you doing? You’re abandoning your post!”
“The City of Purity has awakened, Lady Terland. I am going to stem their forces. With-out combatting them, they will reproduce infinitely.”
Her mouth opened—then compressed into a line.
“Define infinitely.”
“Any magical po-wer source will generate more Purifiers or their light-soldiers, Lady Ul-va. Without restriction, they will advance and conquer. The people of Naamreles are dead. Hence their burial by all forces. The folly of Naamreles must not spread.”
“This isn’t the first Walled City I’ve heard of being buried. Who puts all their problems in the damn dirt? Can’t the Drake handle it?”
The Matriarch of House Terland was complaining, but Timekeeper saw her checking her side as he strode towards the portal door.
“Burial is an acceptable practice when one is out of armaged-don class spells, Lady Ulva. I am informed by your predecessors they run out very quick-ly. Naamreles has barriers. I request reinforcements.”
She said nothing. But she let him put her down and strode into The Wandering Inn. It was chaos there. Timekeeper could ‘hear’ the [Message] spells and unsecured communication spells around him.
Drakes requesting aid from Pallass, who was slow to react. The City of Gems watching their Wall Lord, too far removed to act immediately.
Hesitation.
He had none. A Golem was waiting for him with a panting [Diplomat]. Yweine lifted a repaired hand.
“My directive is to keep Wall Lord Ilvriss alive.”
He nodded once at her. But halted; Lady Ulva Terland had not made up her mind. She was scowling.
“I want to see it for myself. All Golems are to hold from engaging until I give the order. Including yours, Xitegen. Violate my order and I will disinherit you.”
“By your will, Lady Terland.”
Timekeeper advanced through the door as Xitegen began arguing, but Ulva Terland was notoriously stubborn. All Terlands were.
He just hoped she made the right choice.
 
——
 
The infinite legions of Naamreles would have made even Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s Golden Hordes hesitate. For they were no Hemp-caste, who still breathed and bled and died.
These were a true force without care for their lives, and led by the Purifiers, they were advancing on the retreating forces of Salazsar. To judge whether they were worthy of Naamreles’ mercy.
The Purifiers were the most powerful constructs by far. They could fire Tier 5 [Dawnbreak Ray] spells from their mouths at will or activate Tier 6 [Sunburst Field] spells to clear enemy soldiers. At need be, they could link and project Tier 7 magic.
They had been made to slay horrors like Tolveilouka the Wretched. With their flight, catching the escaping Salazsarian forces would have been easy.
Unless they were delayed. 
The thing stopping the Purifiers was the Cowpat Plains themselves. Even as more and more appeared—and the City of Purity had too many, hundreds—each one became distracted with the…the filth.
In Naamreles’ orbit? Unacceptable! The Purifiers were no beings capable of thought. They did not see that the cleared ground around the City of Purity no longer remained. The pristine tiles that had eradicated all life for miles upon miles around the Walled City were long gone. Buried. But they behaved as if it were still there, purifying the manure. Purifying the dirt.
—Still, more kept flying upwards. There was no way to kill them unless they were too full and ‘popped’; not all of them were at a critical mass. Someone had to do something.
Like Master Plumber Oidhol. He was no hero. He was just a working [Plumber], if one of the best in Salazsar. He was self-conscious of always smelling slightly like the pipes he worked on. No one really respected a [Plumber] until you needed them. He had a stable job, though, family, sons who were taking up the family business, even if they were worried no one wanted to marry their daughters to a [Plumber].
Just a Drake who’d gotten an offer to work for that famous Wall Lord. And he’d thought…why not? Told his family he’d never be near any danger because he was just a [Plumber]. Who needed a slightly overweight Drake losing his neck-spines? He’d laughed about it.
“Master Plumber, they’re coming!”
Oidhol was up to his knees in sewage. He was wrapping pipes to form the worst joins in his entire life with sticky tape, fusing metal together with every trick he had. He and his helpers—
“I’m almost done!”
“Hurry!”
He should have been running. He could have, and no one would have blamed him, but Ilvriss had said—
Oidhol heard that voice from behind him.
“Non-citizens, this is your final warning. Analysis: 57.5%. Non-citizen, you are not qualified for—”
Fighting. The [Soldiers] in Thirthoof were trying to evacuate the panicked Humans. Most had ridden off, but this last batch was covering Oidhol—the Drake’s claws slipped. Instantly, he was sprayed with something so foul he didn’t think about it.
“[Emergency Stoppage]. Almost—bend them upwards.”
“Master, they’ll rupture—”
“They just have to last for a few minutes! I don’t care what the pressure is! Hurry!”
Frantically, the [Master Plumber] worked, and he heard screams, shouting. The voices.
“Analysis: 45.63%. Non-citizen—”
Closer.
“Analysis—”
Sweat running down his back and scales. He was thinking of his children, but there were children here, and people’s lives were on the line. 
A voice.
“Analysis: 30.88%. Non-citizen. You are under arrest. This is a military operation. Resist and you will be executed.”
Master Oidhol raised his claws slowly and saw the pipe was done. Jutting upwards, and there was a tower stack built by the other [Plumbers]. The ugliest mess he’d seen, already leaking, but his [Emergency Stoppage] Skill was the only thing holding this all back. He peered up, and a Drake with a smile and a glowing face, his Ancestor, was pointing a spear down at him.
“Non-citizen. Move towards the wall.”
The [Plumber] didn’t respond. He just gripped the pipe and hoped like hell it made a difference. The Wall Lord needed miracles and heroes. Dragons witness him—Oidhol was neither.
But he was a damn good [Plumber]. He lifted the [Emergency Stoppage], and the pipes rumbled like the digestive system of the greatest beast in the world. The glowing Drake hesitated.
“Non-citizen—”
Then Oidhol felt the pipes shudder and grinned. A Wall Lord’s idea. Madness. Practically a war crime in the world of plumbing. Oidhol couldn’t believe he was doing this again. It had been nigh on forty years since he’d built a system that emptied the septic system.
When he was a boy, he’d flooded an entire tower of Salazsar. Now? The [Master Plumber] had aimed the pipes where the desperate Wall Lord had told him they were needed.
Straight up.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle couldn’t believe his eyes. It was like the end of the damned world. His world. The glowing Drakes kept coming, and those horrific, huge ones had killed everything. The town of Thirthoof wasn’t burning, but it was being swept by the shining figures.
He had his hat in his hands. This was all under their feet? Had the half-Elf woke them up? Or Ilvriss?
“They’re not gonna stop. Evacuate everything. We’ll never save the herds. Just…just open the pastures and let Big Burlap and the other bulls take their herds and…”
His voice was hoarse. He saw the Purifiers flying over the city. Blasting anyone they didn’t like. Even the cows.
Even the horses! They left only one alive; the rest weren’t, what, good enough? One was taking aim at the [Mayor], Bootsy, who was riding out with the last group. Marvus reached for his side, but he was too far away. The Purifier’s mouth glowed—
And then something exploded skywards, and it swerved. Stopped. Marvus squinted down.
“The hell’s that?”
He saw a weird, circular white cap on the ground he didn’t recognize. Wait, wasn’t that the ‘sewer system’ that Bootsy had been talking about? The one Aronia wanted? The Drakes had capped the old shit-lake next to the town. But what was…
Something was spraying upwards. Loosed by a [Master Plumber] and a Wall Lord’s Skill. [Adaptive Plumbing] plus the systems that Oidhol had installed were all being funneled into a few pipes, and the pressure was squirting what Marvus realized had to be the most disgusting liquid in the Cowpat Plains skywards.
That was saying something given all the competition. The liquid sewage nearly hit one of the Purifiers in the face, and they turned.
They might have had kill-orders in their programming, but the sight of a fountain of…the Purifiers broke off their strafing runs instantly and began to [Mass Cleanse] the fountaining feces.
Or tried. It just kept coming. Marvus began laughing despite himself. The famous City of Purity, buried in the Cowpat Plains; the irony was not lost on him. Even so—he saw the Purifiers slow down and begin bloating again. That still left thousands of glowing Drakes marching towards Salazsar.
A flash of lightning split the skies. One of their Gem Regiments had just blown a company to pieces with lightning. Marvus wished that would do it. Or all the Drakes that the Wall Lord had hidden from even him.
“That bastard could have beaten the lot of us like drums. Shame…”
Marvus whispered.
“I don’t think he brought enough [Soldiers].”
 
——
 
Vnariss Stulvecrell was not the only Drake marching for the glory of the City of Purity. Nor was it even only Drakes.
A female Gnoll with a tall helmet marched into position, raising bows and extolling the virtues of the City of Purity with him. After all, the Walled City had taken every species.
So long as they aligned in thought.
And of course, later, so long as they were the best. Not the most pure of bloodlines, oh no. Just the best. The most attractive, the strongest, the—
The Drakes who fought in their glowing armies were not the regular civilians, of course. They were the soldiers who had won citizenship by being the best. By volunteering their faces and identities into forever.
Vnariss was beaming as he marched.
“A determination has been made. A foreign army is assailing the City of Purity. Purifiers, Light Armies of Naamreles, defend your home. Mandate: all Class 1-applicable citizens are to be taken alive at all costs. Mandate: The Putrid One’s minions are to be destroyed at all costs.”
A thousand of him spoke with the same voice. Walked with the same surety he had in life. Alongside him, the Gnoll, Incorra Wild Wastes, swung her bows up.
“For the glory of the City of Purity. All are welcome who shall produce a finer age. All those who would sully it be cleansed.”
Vnariss agreed.
“In the name of our tired City of Purity, advance.”
They marched. The Drakes and Gnolls were forming a battle-line in the distance, and the advance Light Soldiers were pursuing. But at a march; they did not run. They ignored arrowfire, spells that cut some down; they were hardy, enduring.
Not as tough as Golems, but not as expensive. Not as adaptive as summons, but far more mass-producible. The ultimate soldier, some had called them. So many made that claim, but Naamreles’ finest—
Vanished as another bolt of lightning crashed down. Light Gnolls were sent flying. A bolt of lightning blew apart 57 of Vnariss’ number, dissolving their light-bodies.
His head turned. The Drake identified a unit of Drakes slamming spears down on the ground, and the dark thunderclouds overhead. He spoke as he marched.
“Hostile magics detected. Erchirite Spears confirmed. The City of Gems. Erchirite Spears below legion-strength; no additional strategy required. Countermeasures deploying.”
As he spoke, the light-soldiers bunched up, not moved apart. And a glowing nimbus of light appeared over their heads. They became units of a hundred, and each one had an umbrella-shield that covered their main mass.
One of the shields took another flash of lightning, and it nearly winked out—but it had protected the light-soldiers below from destruction, and it would reform in six minutes. If they were destroyed, well, the goal was not to preserve any one light-soldier but merely increase their viability in combat as long as possible.
There would be more.
They engaged in combat as some of the Vnariss light-soldiers met the rearmost elements of the retreating Drakes. Loss ratio: 55-0.
Vnariss once again turned his head and studied the unit fighting without casualties.
Again, he spoke.
“Rubirel Guard confirmed. Rubirel Guard below legion-strength; no additional strategy required. Countermeasures deploying. Salazsar’s hostility has been logged. No Flawless Gemstone Regiments detected on the field. Battle shall commence in regrettable victory.”
At his words, the formations changed again. From a hundred soldiers marching together, they became…ten. Not because the groups split up. Rather, ten soldiers walked into each other, forming balls of light which shifted and revealed new figures. Larger. Giant soldiers stepped out of the orbs of light, forming squads once more. Giant versions of Vnariss. Armed with warhammers.
It was a suboptimal use of their numbers—unless fighting heavy armor. The gigantified Drakes advanced in a killing line ahead of regular infantry. After all, Naamreles had fought Salazsar before.
Vnariss’ copies had done so many times…Incorra walked next to him, hundreds of Gnolls smiling and aiming bows up, waiting to come into range.
“Praise the City of Purity. Condemnation to the traitorous City of Gems. They’re still around. Good. Perish, traitors to Drake-kind. Set us free.”
Forwards. The two walked and saw, ahead of them, something the City of Purity didn’t respect, even if it had always needed. The specialty of Salazsar, so both smiled, though they had never really stopped.
Digging.
 
——
 
Foreman Rolx was digging. He knew they were about to be attacked, but he was digging because, well…someone had to.
His pickaxe was faster than a shovel. He was out-digging three whole teams, who stared at him until he roared at them to hurry up. Because they were digging…trenches.
Trenches and a wall. It made sense. You dig a trench, you get dirt. Put the dirt into a wall.
Earthworks. When he’d told Major Shellc, the Drake had asked him if he could really dig even a small trench that fast. Because he was used to making [Soldiers] do it. Soldiers without Skills.
This was just soft earth. Rolx had already made the trench ten feet deep. Which didn’t mean a wall ten feet high, but it was getting there. [Miners] were packing rocks into the ground, and [Soldiers] were assembling.
Advance Miner Georgie nearly fell into the trench when he and Maiss’ team reached them last. The legions of light-soldiers were a ways behind them; they were slower and taking fire.
“Georgie! Get down here! Maiss too!”
When Maiss’ team didn’t move, Rolx swore and howled up at them; even they’d be useful, but Georgie tumbled down into the trench.
“Maiss is fighting up there!”
“He’s what? Clear everything around us! Just swing the pickaxe; it processes everything into dirt cubes! Someone will grab it with a bag of holding—go!”
He and Georgie began swinging their pickaxes until they ran out of mana. Or at least, Georgie’s did. Rolx’s just recharged as he used a Skill, and Georgie nearly spat out his cigar stub.
“Rolx, Maiss’ team are all undercover soldiers! They’re from Salazsar!”
“What? Really? Damn, we might just survive this. Keep digging!”
“How deep?”
“How tall are those giant Purifiers? That deep! But we’re building a slope. Give them a hill to run up!”
“Ancestors, why aren’t we running?”
The two kept digging, swearing, but both were thinking the same thought.
Can’t run forever. Someone had to make a stand, right? And both of them had magical pickaxes. Rolx was no fighter, but he’d seen how effortlessly the pickaxes took out light-soldiers. Better than the damn Rubirel Guards. If…
Then, and only then, did Wall Lord Ilvriss make it to them. Rolx heard the shouting from above and grabbed a rope; then after three pulls, gave up on climbing it and excavated a ramp because like hells he was young enough to pull himself up a rope all the way to the top.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was there. Shouting orders at Major Shellc, searching for Captain Shieldscale, talking with a ghostly Lyonette and even Lord Xitegen. Rolx listened, panting, gulping down water, and saw the light-soldiers were less than five minutes away. Already, light-arrows were raining down, but several hundred feet short of the trenches.
For now. He saw Maiss’ team armed and ready to go on the makeshift walls. And Ilvriss…he was speaking to Clan Leader Plisce. The terrified people from Riverfarm.
The civilians. When he saw Rolx, he motioned the Gnoll over, and Rolx’s stomach twisted. He and Georgie glanced at each other and walked forwards.
I have a family. I’ll…Rolx hesitated.
He wavered—and the Wall Lord spoke.
“All non-combat classes will evacuate the area now! Head towards the [Door of Portals]; if it cannot hold enough, Welsca, take them down the roads. Foreman Rolx!”
“Wall Lord—I’m ready.”
Ilvriss turned to Rolx, and the Gnoll swallowed hard as Georgie looked at him. But it had slipped out. Ilvriss slowed, then grabbed Rolx’s arm.
“Good. Get your people to safety.”
“Wall Lord? But—”
“I said non-combat classes out. Aren’t you a family man?”
Ilvriss didn’t wait for a response. He strode to the head of the line of Drakes and Gnolls. Soldiers. Ones he’d served with personally.
Maiss had been at the Winter Solstice. He and his company were gritting their teeth, aiming down at the oncoming legions, but they had to remember the Draugr. If this was not a hundred thousand Draugr—there were no other armies.
Just them. Xitegen was watching Ilvriss. So was Lyonette and Ulva Terland. So was his city and the [Ranchers], but the Wall Lord didn’t see any of them. He just walked down the line of [Soldiers], who glanced at him for something. Hope. Inspiration. He turned, peered at Osthia and Major Shellc, and gave them his best.
Ilvriss cleared his throat and triggered a [Loud Voice] spell. He spoke in that crisp, even impartial, tone he used at company events.
“Attention, all employees. Combat pay will be doubled for the duration of this engagement.”
Rolx stopped searching for a place to run. The Silverfangs stopped saddling horses and howling the alarm. Even the [Soldiers] lifted their helmets or eyed each other.
Ilvriss went on, steady.
“The same will apply to overtime bonuses. At this moment, all civilian classes will be evacuated from this area; this is a House Gemscale combat operation. With that said, I intend to hand out substantive rewards for all those participating in combat…”
Lyonette’s mouth was slightly open. She’d been possibly preparing for her own Marquin-type speech. Xitegen was cleaning one ear with a pinkie as he eyed Ilvriss.
But this was the style of the Wall Lord of Gems. And Rolx thought, after he actually stopped panicking—
Did Ilvriss change his scale color or something? Did he always have wings?
 
——
 
This was Ilvriss’ style. He was no Zel Shivertail. He could not say ‘follow my tail’ and plunge into combat. Nor was he even Lyonette or Erin.
He was Ilvriss all the way down. Cut him in half and you’d just get Ilvriss. He might have changed species, but that just made him…
Extra Ilvriss.
He was listing their combat benefits. Informing them about overtime pay. He could sense the [Soldiers]’ confusion. And you know what?
Maybe that was part of the plan. Talk like this was something predictable, and [Soldiers] who thought this was it, the final battle, stopped getting ready to shit themselves or run. Tell them that this was the life-or-death last stand and they’d fight like hell or treat it like that.
Tell them they were doubling their pay and they second-guessed the terror. But he was not a fool to think that alone would work, either.
Ilvriss adjusted the speaking stone.
“This is it, ladies, gentlemen, Selphids, if we have any. The City of Purity has been uncovered. The method was less than ideal. There will be an investigation, but this is what I came here to find. What I hoped we’d find. A Walled City’s treasure. And…its doom.”
He pointed, and they beheld the shining legions. The growing Purifiers absorbing the filth. One exploded as Ilvriss watched, and the others covered it. Like glowing butterflies glomming into a flower made of crap.
He wished his life involved less plumbing mishaps. Ilvriss recalled trying to unstick a toilet as Erin ran commentary and grinned.
A smile without fear. He didn’t know how it appeared to the others as he walked, calmly, down their lines. Meeting their eyes. Speaking as if he were at an office meeting. But with a passion that grew as he pointed.
“I don’t intend to risk anyone’s life I don’t have to. Clan Leader Plisce, workers from Liscor, Invrisil, Celum, Riverfarm, I will ensure that House Gemscale rewards you fully for your efforts regardless of whether or not I personally survive. But every [Soldier] and military consultant? We have to hold this ground. The City of Purity is going to advance, and there are people here who didn’t ask for a disaster. Well, we’ve brought it to them.”
The [Ranchers]. The people of Thirthoof, who’d been damned unpleasant. Ilvriss nodded.
“I don’t like them. I don’t know how you feel, but they’re still innocent. We’re House Gemscale. We clean up our own messes. More than that…look. Just look.”
He pointed, and the identical Drakes smiled at him. Marching as light arrows struck within fifty feet of him. But even they seemed to be listening, or it was Ilvriss’ mind playing tricks on him. The Wall Lord rasped.
“This…is our legacy. Sons and daughters of Salazsar, no, people of Izril—look. This is the folly of Drakes, the madness of Walled Cities. Our responsibility. It has always been here. Waiting until we were brave enough to confront it. I don’t know what the City of Purity was. Naamreles’ name has been all but lost to time. But I can see it now. The time has come to judge a Walled City’s sins. So: hold this line. If we need to, we will retreat, but it’s there.”
He clenched a fist, and his lungs felt like they wanted to expel something. Ilvriss coughed, and a plume of glittering dust engulfed him. He waved it away.
“A Walled City’s sins and treasure. This is my promise to you soldiers: whatever we take, you will keep. Not all of it, but if you fight with me, you will carry a helmet, a spear—that bow.”
He saw something and pointed. One of the light-soldiers in the form of a Gnoll had a real bow, not a fake one. She’d been firing actual arrows skywards. A captain-version of the soldiers? Now that he looked, more than one light-soldier had a real weapon or piece of armor.
Loot from other armies they’d destroyed? Ilvriss peered around.
“Take them down, and claim the City of Purity’s treasures. Don’t let anyone take it from you. I’m tired of sitting on a mountain of treasures that will never be used. Now’s when it matters. So…”
He had no closing statement to this speech. It felt like even the light-soldiers were waiting for Ilvriss to finish, marching a touch more slowly. The Wall Lord blinked, then shrugged.
“House Gemscale, prepare for combat.”
Ancestors, that sucked. He pumped a fist up in the air and went striding towards Xitegen to beg the [Lord] for help—and nearly jumped into the air when he heard the roar of sound behind him. Ilvriss turned, and they were cheering.
Colonel Maiss stood up with his company as the first light-soldiers broke into a run. The Drake set his jaw and exploded upwards. He impaled a grinning version of Vnariss on an enchanted blade and kicked another version of the Drake down the slope.
Next to him, a Gnoll fired point-blank into a Drake’s face, then ran through another with a spear. Major Shellc hopped over the dirt wall, and his sword slashed around him, then he leapt back up, having cleared a hole.
“You heard the Wall Lord! Hold the line! Salazsar and the Walled Cities!”
Ilvriss saw people taking cover as the light arrows began to rain down. But no one was running.
Brave people. He wondered how they did it. But then, no one had accused Ilvriss of being perfect. He could lack for introspection a lot of the time.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland didn’t arrive the moment that Salazsar engaged with Naamreles. She saw and heard everything, of course, but the scowling [Matriarch] ignored Xitegen until she could see the battle.
“Pretty.”
That was her first comment. At a distance, it was like glowing lines of light assailing that dirt wall. Naamreles, it transpired, was a big fan of attacking the enemy where they were strongest. After all, they could keep sending forces.
“Those Purifiers are advancing. Is the Drake buckling?”
“He’s not, Great Aunt, but when the Purifiers hit him—”
“Why are they different sizes?”
“They’re full of excrement.”
Ulva’s brows snapped together, and she had to get an abbreviated explanation. Then she rolled her eyes.
This is the doom of Naamreles? Well, despite Ilvriss’ tricks, a few Purifiers were joining the fighting. The rest were still ‘cleaning’ and seemed to be making zero progress given the literal plains of shit, but three were lurching forwards, and they were big. Big, as in ‘thirty feet tall’ for one of them.
“They pop like grapes?”
“If you can hurt them, Great Aunt. Lightning bolts fail. So if you’d like us to help…”
She said nothing. Ulva Terland was aware she wasn’t the only group who’d come to witness this madness. Lady Desinee El was holding a handkerchief over her nose.
“Oh no. It’s the Solstice all over again…he’s doomed. He needs help!”
Desinee had a weapon in hand. The Kaalglaive, for all she thought it was a stupid weapon. She appeared ready to charge, despite being in a riding dress. And she was saying that a bit too loud and glancing at Ulva.
“Lady Ulva, perhaps in this case…”
Lord Moltin began nervously. The Terlands who hadn’t gone into hiding, like Alorelle, were eying the armies, and Ulva just grunted.
“Great Aunt, it would be terrible if we let Drakes do all our work. On our lands?”
Xitegen’s voice had that overly patient sound. Ulva just narrowed her eyes.
“Shut up, boy. I’m waiting.”
“Great Aunt, with utmost disrespect, I will disinherit myself if this is how much backbone we have left in House Terland. Give me a damn good reason or I’ll—”
She finally saw what she was searching for and cut him off.
“Xitegen, I’d have you spanked like half the family deserves if you weren’t needed. I made my proclamation, or have you all forgotten? I wanted to see if they’d step up or not. There’s nothing commendable about following Golems into battle. They do all the hard work.”
It took him a moment to figure out what she meant. But Ulva had been watching for something other than the battle. She nodded at Timekeeper.
“Magnification.”
He obligingly had a Golem with a built-in telescope magnify the spot she was looking at, and Ulva sighed.
There they were. Did they think her words were meaningless? Well, even he’d probably forgotten, but they hadn’t.
“It’s more than a class. It’s a duty. If they’d failed their first test, I would have taken it back.”
What she was looking at was a group of [Riders]. Rather—a lot of [Riders], not all of the same party. More were coming.
Ulva nodded, so self-satisfied that everyone wanted to shove her.
Yweine did.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle was swearing with nerves for two reasons. One—he wasn’t doing the sensible thing and running for the hills, but this was his land. His land in actuality, as Aronia had reminded him. There was nowhere else for their herds to go.
And he’d heard what Ilvriss had said. A Walled City’s treasures. So he’d told Aronia to grab all the kids and pack their valuables, then taken every [Rancher] he could. They were armed with bows, mostly, but they did have long, light spears they used to kill monsters from horseback.
Not a damn army. But if Ilvriss’ Drakes broke, then Marvus didn’t see a good way to push this City of Purity back. Not with the Terlands doing jack-all.
“We waiting around here until we’re growing moss, Marvus?”
“Shut it, Nithle. I’m thinkin’. I’m thinking the only chance we’ve got is to hit ‘em and run off. No sense in treating this like a brawl. Or is there?”
The Drakes had swords and armor, but they were all light. Marvus had seen them getting knocked about, but the [Ranchers] didn’t have armor. He amended his statement.
“Maybe there is. Don’t ride at the ones with bows; they’ll shoot us out of the saddle. Keep riding, keep shootin’.”
“What happens when we run out of arrows and magic from our wands? Hatchets and light spears against them?”
One of the Golva boys wanted to know. Marvus spat.
“No. No. Hey, how many of your lot know how to lasso anything at speed?”
“Everyone’s got a lasso Skill or just knows how for fun.”
The tricks you could do with a loop of rope, and not just for grabbing a runaway steer. Marvus nodded.
“I reckon those Drakes’re as light as can be. What if we rode on ‘em, and each one of us…”
“—Gave them a mile-long drag? Dead gods, Marvus, that’s nasty!”
“Well, these ones ain’t got skin to rub off, but I reckon it’d do for them what it does for anything else. Hit and go. As for the herd—”
All the [Ranchers] turned their heads, and Marvus felt uneasy. There were two reasons Marvus was uneasy.
One: the City of Purity waking up and legions of Drakes made of light trying to kill anything that moved.
Two: Big Burlap was behind him and there was no fence.
The giant bull was, in fact, free. He and five other prime bulls were pawing the ground and eying the glowing Drakes with a distinct lack of fear. Behind them were about four hundred head of cattle.
Not prime cattle. In theory, prime beef, but not all of them were the best for meat or milk. Rather….they were the most ornery, most dangerous bulls—and cows—that each ranch family had.
Man-killers, some of them. Or just heavy and mean. It was a miracle they weren’t trying to kill the [Ranchers], who were almost as nervous about them as the glowing Drakes. But Marvus had had a word with Big Burlap.
He never knew how much the bull got, but he was a product of Skills and breeding. And the bull could choose when he wanted to murder.
Right now, a bunch of magical Drakes seemed to beat the [Ranchers]. The herd were pawing the ground, defecating, but ominously silent. Marvus hoped that when the [Ranchers] went, the herd did too.
Then he didn’t want to be anywhere in front or behind them. Marvus had a force that would have given the Drakes a run for their money if Ilvriss didn’t shoot them all dead. But he was hesitating.
Am I doing this? Coming to a Wall Lord’s defense? I could let him hang out to dry. I bet Ulva Terland’s thinking the same thing. This wraps up Salazsar in a neat bow, don’t it? They started this mess.
But the fellow’s been honest as I can see. Even fought the damn half-Elf. Sticks in the throat to let him die fighting.
Marvus was conflicted. He kept waiting as another Purifier began to lumber Salazsar’s way. He saw the Silverfang Gnolls moving away, their entire tribe, and the [Miners]. The Wall Lord was getting his people out. Decent of him.
Damnit. It was decent of him. Marvus felt like he was on the brink of everything he knew and had known being proven untrue. Drakes being heartless bastards who deserved nothing more than an arrow between the eyes had run up against the Wall Lord’s actions again and again, of late. Now, he was wavering. Like he and Aronia were balanced on a board of wood. And he didn’t know which way he’d land. He just needed a damn push.
 
——
 
That was what was needed. Ilvriss was fighting for his life; they’d lost track of him in the battle as the dirt fortifications were overwhelmed by another wave of Drakes. Welsca and everyone else was fighting in the confusion, and the people watching on the scrying orb weren’t able to tell who was winning.
Which meant that Salazsar was losing, if only by attrition. Because another wave would come. And another. The other groups had to act. Someone had to compel them to act.
Someone who could bridge north and south. Speak between species. Someone with the authority to make the Terlands move, stir the hearts of stubborn [Ranchers] and, possibly, bulls.
Like a daughter of the most famous nation of diplomacy ever.
A [Princess], perhaps. Or the greatest [Diplomat] of Salazsar.
Lyonette du Marquin appeared in a flash of light next to Ulva Terland. The [Matriarch] of House Terland’s head rose slowly. Her permanent glower shifted to Lyonette. The [Princess] glanced around, eyes flashing. She drew her breath and said—
“What are you waiting for, you old hag?”
Ulva Terland recoiled. Lyonette jumped—whirled—and Lady Damia Reinhart ran through the [Princess]. She had leapt out of a black carriage that had just parked itself on the ground.
The Unmarked Coach and its driver, Karsaeu-Dequoa, was swallowing hard as she stared at the City of Purity unearthed. Because that—
That was before even the Djinni’s time. She had come straight from Invrisil to here. A bunch of women were bailing out of the carriage as well.
Varnie and her gang were armed for a fight. However, all the gear they’d purchased was for hypothetical Golems. The [Gang Leader] took one look at the army of Drakes and started swearing.
“Oh no. C’mon. I was ready to maybe fight a few damn Golems. But this? This is way beyond any damn debt! Look! Even she’s chickening out!”
She pointed at Ulva Terland, whose head snapped around, but Lady Damia just shouted at the Terlands.
“Are you mad? Can’t you see what Ilvriss is doing? First he fights the half-Elf for you—and the 6th [Princess] of Calanfer—and now he’s waging a literal war and you’re doing nothing? Is the honor of the Five Families, of House Terland, worth nothing?”
“Rich coming from a Reinhart—”
Ulva began, and Lyonette blinked as Moltin, Nouzcrat, and the other Terlands hesitated. One of the younger [Ladies] perked her head up. Damia swung around, eyes flashing.
“That Drake just fought a horror from the Age of Myths for you! He nearly died—you thought he was dead too! Princess Lyonette almost turned into something horrific—and this isn’t the first time they’ve fought this horror! Do you need more proof they’re on the right side?”
“Er, yes. Totally unprompted. Evil half-Elf.”
Lyonette was having trouble mustering the, ah, unbridled righteous passion that Damia had. Another fault of Tolveilouka. But Lady Damia had spotted the Silverfangs. She waved her hands at Clan Leader Plisce, and shouted at the [Miners] led by Foreman Rolx.
“What are you all doing? Ilvriss is fighting for his life, and it’s the City of Purity.”
“…But it’s an army.”
Plisce pointed at the glowing Drakes and the giant Titan-Drake with a halo, wondering if Damia couldn’t see them. The [Lady] spread her hands as she cast around.
“I know. I’m not blind. But this is it. A Solstice event. This is like the Meeting of Tribes, don’t you see? This—this is going to change Izril. For the better or worse. And you want to just run? I’m not saying charge them, but you’re Silverfangs! You have bows! And [Miners] have weapons—”
Her audience were staring at her. Damia pointed.
“Didn’t you hear Ilvriss speaking? The treasures of a Walled City are right there. Right there. Haven’t you wanted to be someone important? If you run now, you can say you helped dig up the City of Purity. But if you stay, you’ll be part of that legend. Level. Level or die. I’ve levelled more in this month than I have my entire life. They say this age is changing, and I feel it. I’ll be left behind if I don’t do something. Well, this is my chance, and I see it. So what if it’s an ancient Walled City? We have the Terlands, the [Rancher] clans—a Gnoll tribe—Salazsar, and The Wandering Inn!”
Her arms spread out to encircle them all, her eyes shining.
“If we all work together, if we use the bonds we’ve forged, and the power of our disparate peoples, we’ll win. With the power of—of friendship and hope—”
She lost Ulva Terland there. The [Matriarch] recoiled physically away from that last sentence. Her face wrinkled up, and even some of the Silverfangs bit their lips. But Damia just looked around—then strode over to Lady Desinee El.
“Excuse me, Lady Desinee. You’re selling House of El products, right? Put this on my account.”
“Yes, but—hey!”
Damia grabbed the Kaalglaive.
“I need a horse—Varnie, that’s my goal.”
She pointed, and the [Gang Leader] followed the path of Damia’s finger and stared at the largest Purifier. She gaped at Damia again.
“Uh—no. Are you insane?”
Damia’s eyes flashed with the power of hard thinking.
“The Kaalblades were made to destabilize magical beings. Isn’t that right, Lady Desinee?”
“Wh—yes, but—”
Damia swung around.
“All debts paid after this, Varnie. Who’s with me?”
No one answered. So Damia grabbed Lady Desinee’s horse. She stole that too and began riding forwards. Shouting.
“For Salazsar! For The Wandering Inn and…House Reinhart! For Izril!”
She began to gallop. Plisce sat on his horse, mouth open, watching Damia race past him, until he heard a curse. Then Chief Huntress Rayna was galloping after her.
“Every Silverfang with a bow—give those Drakes some covering fire! Stay away from everything!”
She rode past a Gnoll running with a pickaxe on his shoulder. Foreman Rolx and half of Salazsar’s [Miners] had begun heading back for Ilvriss before Damia had even finished. Georgie was swearing as he hopped from foot to foot, hesitating. But then the racing Damia had company.
Her galloping horse turned its head and eyed the Human running next to the mare. The affronted horse tried to gallop faster, but Lord Xitegen Terland kept up. His Golems…
Xitegen wore the most dissatisfied expression that Ulva had ever seen on his face. She knew how he felt.
“That brat made this a hundred times more unpleasurable. I’m actually tempted to just hang it all. Friendship and hope. With a Drake.”
She spat on the ground, and Nouzcrat started.
“Ulva…”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland leapt off her dais and strode past him.
“Oh, shut up. I’m not disinheriting the only idiot who can act as Terland’s heir. Or half those children.”
Several of the younger Terlands were racing after Damia on horseback or with their Golems. Ulva Terland drew the metal wand from her side. She tapped it on Timekeeper’s side.
“I am Ulva Terland. I suffer no Drakes on my lands. I suffer ancient Drakes even less. Golems of House Terland. Let your hearts roar. [Concerto: Roil of Stone]. March!”
She lifted her wand, and Golems began to stride forwards. Like a conductor. The [Virtue of House Terland] conducting Golems like she and her sister had once done…Ulva turned her head.
“[Arpeggio Volley]. Take that Purifier out.”
A Golem with a giant ‘mouth’ planted its feet in the ground, and a spell began to gather in its center. It fired the first spell at the Purifier as other long-ranged Golems joined it. Ulva Terland’s eyes gleamed as she spun her wand.
“Light of the North—to me! Bring the wrath of House Terland south! Avoid crushing cities.”
Then she was conducting her side of the battle as Golems advanced. From safety—only an idiot got closer to a battle. But she did smile when she saw Timekeeper halt a rank of Drakes with his Skill a moment before he crashed into them like bowling pins.
There wasn’t a Terland born who didn’t love to see their Golems using their full power.
 
——
 
“They’re going in? We ride!”
Marvus Lischelle saw Damia charging and kicked his [Ranchers] into action. With whoops and shouts, they began to race across the Cowpat Plains, and the herd of cattle followed them. Slowly, but with an ominous building of momentum.
They passed by a disbelieving Djinni.
Karsaeu was puffing on a pipe, eying the [Ranchers] like they were mad. They wanted to throw hands with a buried Walled City? 
Both she and Lord Gorthes Reinhart, who was trying to sneak up on the Djinni, had no idea what was going on, and like hells either one was going to get in the middle of a fight.
In fact, the Reinhart had ridden over a thousand miles, and his ass was sore as he called up Cecille Reinhart and the family.
“Hey, Cecille. Cecille, pick up.”
“Gorthes? This had better be good.”
He angled the scrying orb slightly.
“Might be. Any idea why your daughter’s charging an army of glowing Drakes? The fuck’s going on here?”
He was relieved when she spat her cigarette out. Good, so he wasn’t out of the loop that much.
The rest of the family began watching.
Calidus already was.
 
——
 
The watchers from Salazsar couldn’t believe it. The sight of two different groups of Humans, let alone the Terlands, going to Salazsar’s defense?
“They’re flanking you! Behind you, Major Shellc! They’re going to wipe—”
Wall Lord Zail had, in fact, been screaming at Major Shellc for the last five minutes. But the [Major] had just cut him off and refused to pivot.
That idiot from Rhir—he’d refused to take a defensive position. Because he trusted Humans. But not Terlands. Not—
Zail saw one of the Golems punch through three Drakes’ heads and go storming into the fighting at Salazsar’s position. He waited for the Golem to begin attacking the astonished Salazsar soldiers, but it didn’t.
He sat back.
“But they’re Terlands.”
He was drawing breath to say something when he saw a bright, emerald figure buzzing past the Golems. An arrow hit one of the glowing soldiers, and Bird the Huntress flew over the battle.
Wall Lord Zail began choking on his spit.
 
——
 
“Bird!”
Nanette was screaming, but Bird had begun flying the moment she heard what was happening. She beat Elia Arcsinger by a minute, but the Named-rank adventurer just started shooting from horseback, angling her bow up.
Two [Archers]. No one but the watching people saw either at first. They just flew or found a position and began loosing arrows. Bird landed next to Elia, and they saw a hundred Gnolls with bows split off from the oncoming army.
“Ooh. A hundred versus one.”
“Two, Bird.”
“Right, whatever. Let’s see who shoots more.”
“This is life and death, Bird.”
Elia was sweating as she drew another arrow to her bow and loosed it. They were well out of the range of ordinary bows, or even Naamreles’ bows. Her arrow arced up, up—it hit one of the marching Gnolls in the nose. Bird had fired four arrows in the time it took Elia’s one.
She got one of the Gnolls in the knee and another in the shoulder. Elia paused.
“And I’m winning. That’s one. Two.”
The half-Elf fired a second arrow and knew it would hit another Gnoll before it landed.
Bird frowned, drew back on her bow, and the Chitrx-metal flexed. Bird fired, and the arrow went straight.
It refused to drop and, after two thousand feet, punched through three Gnolls, then exploded on the fourth. Elia turned her head, and the light-soldiers all stared at Bird. They began to march a bit faster.
Bird lowered her bow…then rubbed at one of her breasts.
“Ow.”
“Ah. You need a breastband for—”
“Ow, that hurt a lot.”
 
——
 
Everyone in The Wandering Inn was watching as Lady Damia led a charge straight into the City of Purity’s legions.
Or to be more precise—Damia charged in with Varnie and her gang. Everyone else didn’t do that.
Silverfangs took up positions on a hill that a [Shaman] raised and began setting up barricades. The [Miners] advanced onto Salazsar’s position from behind, and before they could get themselves minced, a screaming Welsca found them.
“Rolx! Don’t advance blind! I’ll find you a position—we need you to dig!”
“You what?”
The [Adjutant] was running strategy. She landed, coughing out smoke. The wings were fine, but she didn’t understand her Dragonbreath, and she was a fire Oldblood, now. She’d tried to flame the light-legions twice but only gotten smoke.
“Listen—this is a long engagement. We need your people setting up a camp and digging! The amount of earth you can shift can literally bury the enemy or form a wall! Are—are the Terlands on our side?”
“Yes, and so’s Lady Damia—”
“She’s not going to survive that charge. She’s insane! Listen, I need to fly—report to Major Shellc, there! He’ll assign you to a spot!”
Welsca took wing again. It was only an idiot who charged the enemy. She glanced down at Damia Reinhart and winced; the [Lady] was actually making her way in. But she couldn’t bail out a single [Lady], even a friend.
The [Ranchers]—Welsca swooped down and nearly scared Marvus out of his saddle.
“Marvus, are you on our side?”
“Wh—I guess so!”
“Then move where I’m directing you! I need you on harassing duty!”
The [Ranchers] had no sense of how to move in a battle. He hesitated, and then she showed him where he could ablate the enemy while they were engaged with one of the earthwork walls. She gave him credit: when he whooped and whirled his hat, everyone turned with him.
Everyone but the herd of angry cattle. They ignored the [Ranchers] and kept stomping forwards. They were headed for the center of the glowing Drakes’ mass, and Welsca cursed.
“That’s not the best place for them! There are more reinforcement waves coming—can you get the cattle to turn, Marvus?”
“Hell no!”
“Good, then—”
“No, I said no! Big Burlap’s leading them, and they won’t stop! He’ll go tearing into ‘em, and if they’re not dead, he might come out the other side hitting your lot! Just stay out of his way!”
Welsca cursed again, but she flew with the [Riders]. Any idiot could see the cattle herd was going to get itself surrounded once its charge stalled out. But she couldn’t control cattle, and there was no one exactly riding a b—
Welsca’s head turned. So did Marvus’ and every [Rancher]’s. They nearly galloped into one of the trenches. But she was doing it.
 
——
 
Deilan El was giving orders to muster whatever [Mercenaries] and standing forces they had on offer. Kaalblades too. First the half-Elf, now this. He was pulling at his hair and trying not to tear any out when he saw someone on the cattle herd. He squinted.
Then he enlarged the section of the battlefield. He stared.
Zelonica, his assistant, bent down to stare. Then the door swung open. Irve El stood there with another scrying orb in his hands.
“Is that—Desinee?”
 
——
 
This was madness. But Desinee El saw the herd of cattle about to commit to a suicide-charge, and she had to do it. She’d stolen someone else’s horse and had to do a flying leap from the panicked animal as it raced away onto the giant bull’s back.
In fairness, it wasn’t hard because Big Burlap was slowly accelerating over the ground, and there was a lot of him to land on. Nor did he ever expect someone to get on his back.
Let alone twice. His huge eyes rolled up towards her as he felt her land, and then they slowly started turning red. She felt him tense under her and hollered in one ear.
“Now listen! Aunt Maviola taught me how to speak to animals, and so did Zedalien! I know you’re smarter than regular livestock! See this? This is a Kaalblade!”
She waved one of the fake samples from her bag of holding in his face. Big Burlap snorted until Desinee spoke.
“[Product Demonstration].”
The Kaalblade snapped into life with that snap-hiss that Deilan had insisted would sell real well. She held the glowing blade up.
“It will cut anything in this world. You’re going to turn your herd or you’ll all die, got it?”
Is that a threat or an invitation? I only see them dying in my future. The bull began to trot faster, clearly ignoring her. Desinee leaned forwards and hissed in the bull’s ears.
“Listen to me. If you don’t turn, right now, I’m not going to just kill you. I’m going to hop off your back and neuter you.”
She held the glowing Kaalblade over his head and cut a tip from Big Burlap’s horn to show him she was serious. He eyed her. He eyed the glowing blade.
The bull slowed down, and Desinee pointed.
“That way!”
She took the herd after the [Ranchers] as a disbelieving Welsca flapped back towards her. Then…they were accelerating as Desinee saw a thousand light-Drakes marching towards the battle. Four hundred angry cattle defecated, distracting one of the Purifiers. Desinee clung to Big Burlap’s back as arrows fell around them. Then her heart was pounding.
I knew I was mad. But the world was mad after the Winter Solstice. Because it was so ordinary. Here—right here makes a dreadful kind of sense.
Aunt Maviola?
Desinee stared ahead and saw a flash of red hair and a burning banner. Then she raised the Kaalblade high.
“House of El!”
She watched Big Burlap run onto a sword the glowing Drakes drew. Then hit a second rank of braced Drakes. Then crash through the third—and they realized the angry bull wasn’t stopping for mere flesh wounds. Desinee swung her Kaalblade wildly, screaming.
 
——
 
Once again, for the first time since the Sacrifice of Roses, a battlefield saw multiple [Ladies] advancing into enemy lines. A screaming, terrified [Lady] of the House of El. A Terland [Lady] with a Golem heart roaring like the rest.
And Lady Damia Reinhart. She was swinging the Kaalglaive, screaming, as Varnie and her people fought around her.
Her job was simple. There was a Purifier lumbering towards Salazsar’s forces. If even one reached the Drakes, it would crush and kill them. Damia’s mind told her the simple equation: the Purifier had to be stopped.
If she popped it, the waste would distract the others. The only problem was reaching it.
There were glowing Drakes everywhere, and Varnie was a whirlwind of blades, stabbing through faces, swearing nonstop. Damia’s mind was shrieking something at her, but she had meant it.
Level or die. There was only one way a weak [Lady] could be useful, and it was this:
“[Bridge the Gap]!”
She was close enough—a ramp opened and forced the glowing [Soldiers] apart. Damia rode up the ramp with Desinee’s screaming mare and saw a huge, clawed foot stomping past her. She swung the glowing Kaalglaive at it.
Missed.
Her third wild swing saw the cumbersome, poorly-designed Kaalglaive’s tip slash across the Purifier’s leg. Damia saw the magic deforming around the tip of the glowing blade. Then something black bulged from inside the Purifier—
This time, it popped like a giant zit, pus blasting out the leg. It knocked the light-soldiers down, and they began crying for more Purifiers. Above Damia, the giant glowing Drake form wobbled. It tried to hold its structure, but then it started to destabilize. Before it could ‘bend’, it just—shattered. Into a million fragments of light.
Damia Reinhart caught her breath. She gazed up and saw a being more magical than she had ever laid eyes on vanishing, claw holding a blade that vanished and turned to fragments of light.
In the distance, the fighting Drakes and Gnolls and Humans were shouting. Cheering her? Damia Reinhart hefted the Kaalglaive higher with trembling arms.
She actually had done it. Even she couldn’t believe it. And she wondered…
Was this her Level 20 capstone deed?
Or even more?
A new class?
Her heart thrilled. She almost laughed—then turned around. And all she saw around her were glowing Drakes. No gang.
Just…Varnie, panting, as she stopped her whirlwind of knives Skill. Damia’s mind told her that maybe Salazsar was cheering her. But right now they were also telling her to get out of…
She turned her horse. The mare collapsed onto her forelegs. Damia tried to urge the creature up, startled, then saw glowing arrows standing out along the mare’s head. She fell onto the ground.
“Up. C’mon—damnit, it worked, but it was stupid as hell—”
Varnie heaved Damia up and threw a dagger into a Drake’s eye. Damia whispered to her.
“Your gang, Varnie. I’m so sorry—”
The [Gang Leader] eyed her and leapt forwards. Slashed a Drake’s head off, backstepped, knifed a Drake without looking with a backwards jab of her daggers. Pulled something out and tossed it.
Explosion of smoke. She activated a Skill and stood in a cleared section of ground, balanced on the balls of her feet. Smiling.
“Them? They’re not all dead. They just ran for it ‘fore we got this far in. Whaddya expect? You hired criminals, remember? I’m just surprised the idiots followed me in. Dumb as rocks. It worked, though. You just didn’t think of an escape route, did you?”
Damia’s silence was enough. Varnie checked her corners, drawing her daggers.
“Why are you here, then?”
The [Gang Leader] grinned.
“I’m Varnie the Bloodletter. I’d rather be dead than a Face who ran from a debt. Stay behind me or we won’t make it. Shame there’s no bodies to hide behind.”
The smoke was clearing. Damia swung the Kaalglaive around wildly and wondered when the charge would run out. It’d kill any Drake soldier until then, but they were surrounded—
 
——
 
Damia’s destruction of the Purifier did not go unmissed. Everyone saw it—it was just that there was no one able to save her.
Ulva Terland was ordering her Golems forwards, but they had been fighting a flanking action, not doing a suicide charge. Bird and Elia were sniping down soldiers around Varnie and Damia, but…
Lord Gorthes eyed the Drakes and didn’t see any Oldblood Fliers anywhere near the fighting. Drakes liked fairly static formations, anyways. He leaned on the driver’s seat of his reinforced carriage and sighed.
“That’s your daughter alright, Cecille. Dumb as you. Goes charging in for a wagging tail and gets in over her head.”
“Gorthes. Be silent.”
Was that emotion in her tone? Gorthes grinned into the scrying orb and bit a lump of chewing tobacco. He eyed the Unmarked Coach, but the driver wasn’t doing shit. So Gorthes regarded the carriages of his best bullyboys and sighed. Then he lifted the scrying orb and spoke into it.
“This is Gorthes to the family. Is that Damia still sleeping with her brother? Werbel or whatever his name is?”
Silence. Some of the other Reinharts shrugged. Tourois Reinhart took a gulp of wine.
“I swear I saw that boy porking a [Maid] the other day. Not that it means much. In the damn garden.”
“She’s stopped.”
Cecille was pale-cheeked as she stared at the spot where the smoke was clearing. Gorthes nodded. He checked his chewed fingernails.
“Anyone got a good reason she should be dead? She murder too many people? Too much of a headache? Sleep with, I dunno, children?”
Silence. Which, when you got to it, was like a room full of applause in House Reinhart. No one ever said good things about the family. But if they had nothing overly bad to say…Lord Gorthes sighed.
“Damnit. Alright—on me!”
He grabbed the reins, then just drew a bullwhip and cracked it overhead. The stallion team moved into action. Behind Gorthes, he heard his minions, the sycophants and idiots he had for servants, hesitate.
“Lord Gorthes—”
They followed him. Although when they saw what he was driving at, they hesitated again. But Gorthes’ blood was up. He put the reins of the carriage in his teeth, gritting them so hard they nearly cracked. He swore he saw that damn driver of the Unmarked Coach staring at him out of the corner of his eye.
Gorthes spat out the reins long enough to bellow over his shoulder.
“Hey, you! Look at a real driver.”
Then he was roaring. The two carriages behind him were wavering, the [Drivers]’ faces white. The thugs he’d recruited were panicking.
“Lord Gorthes—we’re going be—”
“[Shut Up And Obey]!”
The [Brute of a Lord] roared. He saw the Drake light-soldiers turning. They paused, perhaps not sure how you attacked a carriage. A problem House Reinhart’s many enemies had faced over the years. Unless you had a pike wall, the horses, terrified of the bullwhip but mostly the multi-ton vehicle on their asses, wouldn’t slow.
Even if you got them, then you just had an out-of-control carriage reinforced with steel and magic—Gorthes was laughing.
A [Lord] laying around him with a bullwhip as he drove into the glowing Drakes. He kicked, got a slash on his enchanted clothing, swung a club into a face as he urged the horses forwards—
In his carriage, his servants were swinging their weapons. But the cowardly pukes were panicking. Gorthes saw one of the carriages pulling away.
“Traitorous cowards! [No One Double Crosses Me]!”
The [Driver] was turning his carriage away when Gorthes’ Skill hit him full-force. Literally; it was like the [Lord] wound up for the heaviest punch he could make and hit the man with it. The [Driver] reeled, insensible, and the carriage skidded into a wing of the [Soldiers].
Good enough as a distraction. The second carriage bogged down, and the panicked servants leapt out, trying to make a break for it.
Gorthes’ carriage went onwards. He felt the Drakes trying to grab him. But his eyes were on the smoke. One of the stallions went down, screaming, a glowing spear in its guts.
“[Cut It Loose]! Where—there!”
Gorthes saw a flash of blades. He bent down, leaning across the driver’s seat, and yanked something up.
A Kaalglaive, energy spent. He hauled Damia up, and she screamed, flailing, thinking he was a Drake. He punched her, dragged her over his lap, and then cracked the bullwhip again.
“Get us out of here, you damn nags!”
The stallions were screaming. They heaved, and the carriage moved as Varnie whirled, did a double-take, and leapt for the carriage. But the Drakes were clinging to the sides of the carriage.
“Lord Gorthes, we can’t get free! We’re too h—aaaaaaaaaaah!”
Gorthes grabbed the [Servant] who was screaming and heaved the man over the side of the carriage.
“[Die Before Me]!”
The Human projectile hit the Drakes trying to climb on board, and Gorthes felt the carriage moving. He shouted.
“I’ll promote ya if you live!”
Then he felt them accelerating. Lady Damia raised her head woozily.
“Uncle Gorthes? What the—”
Gorthes ignored her, cracking his whip at the horses, at the Drakes. It was only when he felt his carriage reaching a critical momentum and knew the Drakes couldn’t stop him before they burst free that he began laughing.
He threw back his head and roared with laughter, leaving bloody carnage behind him—even if most of it was magical light-soldiers. A full Reinhart. He grinned down at Damia as blood ran into one eye from a cut on his head; he had two arrows in one arm, and he didn’t even seem like he felt them.
“Always have a way out, you worthless little shit. Now you owe me.”
Gorthes just guffawed louder at Damia’s open-mouthed expression of astonishment. He loved it when he collected big favors.
 
——
 
They were—all fighting.
House of El. House Terland. Even House Reinhart.
Calidus was laughing so hard he had tears in his eyes. Clapping. Cheering even for Uncle Gorthes’ iconic madness. He’d never been prouder, truly.
Selys was searching for her friends, for Wall Lord Ilvriss. But Calidus just rose to his feet.
“He sees it. So does Damia. Are you all blind?”
The Faces of his Guild sat around him. Faces and Ranks. They were in the Assassin’s Guild. Selys was trembling, trying to be composed.
“Calidus, I—we need to assist. Strategically—if that is the Walled City—”
“Let them all die and collect on it after they’ve weakened the city.”
He nodded. Selys’ face turned stricken, then blank as she clenched her claws. But the [Lord]’s calm face burst into another maniac grin.
“That’s what my Grandfather would do. Because it’s the logical move in a world where no one trusts anyone and where allies are just that of convenience. The logic of someone who is unloved and loveless.”
Her eyes widened, and he turned. Calidus calmly lifted a speaking stone to his lips.
“This is the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild to every Rank in the area. Undercover or not—you have full permission to attack the City of Purity’s forces. Do not attack or hinder Wall Lord Ilvriss or allied forces.”
He lowered the speaking stone and turned, beaming around at Losmere and the others.
“That goes for anyone who wants to participate, here as well. Don’t worry, I’m sure the fighting will last long enough for a carriage ride.”
Full permission? The Ranks and Faces eyed Calidus with as much skepticism as Selys. They looked, pointedly, at the giant Purifier shooting beams of light out its mouth before one of the Golem volleys ripped it apart.
But Calidus just chuckled. Then doubled over with mirth. Then ripped his shirt open because he liked the move. His belly flopped out as he breathed in and out.
“Do you not…see it? The City of Purity? And this is our chance! Rehabilitate our image! Put it out there, now, that the real Assassin’s Guild is defending the Five Families, as it’s always done! Levels! I bet Salazsar’s posting an all-call bounty for that Wall Lord! Get in touch with their Assassin’s Guild and demand a bounty!”
“Lord Calidus, you want our members to fight light-constructs from another era?”
Losmere was trying to do her cool, professional—Calidus seized her shoulders. Then scooped her up in his arms. She froze up, then tried to get free. He beamed at her, dropped her, and she landed on her feet like an angry cat. He shouted.
“Are you [Assassins] or not? I thought [Assassin] meant you killed things! Not just fleshy, blood-filled mortals! Here is the challenge of a lifetime with the rewards to match, and this is why your Guild died. Cowards stay behind! To every single Rank out there—the one that kills a Purifier is a Face! My oath on it!”
The Ranks froze up. Selys saw one of them, Slashface, push herself up from a table despite her healing injuries. Selys almost grabbed for her, but Calidus seized her shoulder. He glanced around in the silence.
“Well? Go!”
Two dozen Ranks were on their feet at once. One leapt out a window; another vaulted the table. And Calidus turned to the scrying orb, then hesitated.
“Ah, probably a little delay. Perfect. Well then…[Ascertain Consent]. Miss Selys? Would you mind it greatly if I swept you into an impassioned kiss?”
She blinked at him. Calidus Reinhart beamed at her. His eyes flickered—then he swept an arm around her and kissed her on the mouth. He was still beaming when she elbowed him in the stomach and slapped him.
“Someone get me a drink and a recording of this.”
Then he sat back down and leaned forwards. Because he couldn’t wait to see how this ended.
 
——
 
The news broke in Salazsar nearly two hours after the battle started. To be fair, there were people who’d seen it the moment the City of Purity’s alarms had been going off.
Alrric didn’t know if he’d blinked. He was sitting in his office, just watching, paws gripping his desk. He’d lost track of Ilvriss several times.
But now—he was aware the City of Gems was finding out. Of course they were.
Wall Lord Brilm’s son was there, and if there was a soul within screaming distance who hadn’t heard Brilm—of course, Eschowar and the smarter lot might have wanted to keep this private.
It was too late.
The funny thing was that it wasn’t on the news. Citizens of Salazsar were being told by word of mouth. Racing to get scrying orbs. But every time one of them tried to send a [Message] to Pallass News Network or Wistram to ask why the hell they weren’t covering this—nothing happened.
Only a bit concerning, that. Alrric filed that away for later. And he suspected—well, think about it.
All of House Terland was either engaged in the fighting or watching. They didn’t want anyone to know if their precious Golems died. Reinharts? Not big on sharing information.
The House of El was the only group who’d give anything away, and they might be glued to their scrying orbs like Alrric. If The Wandering Inn wasn’t shouting the news, then the only major city that could see this was Salazsar.
Salazsar was watching their Wall Lord fight. Ilvriss, the same Drake who’d been dragged in their own newspapers and the court of public opinion, the Drake who’d done the Right Thing at the Meeting of Tribes.
…His shouting at Periss still rattled Alrric. So he really had been in love. And…Alrric gazed downwards and saw.
Colonel Maiss was still holding the front lines. He was fighting side-by-side with Maisy, the Rubirel Guard having lost her damaged helmet, and the two were clearing the light-soldiers around them.
Roaring orders. Blood was running down Maiss’ rather impressively clenched jaw, and Maisy was hoisting a struggling Drake over her head with her halberd before she flung the enemy soldier off her.
“They’re fighting like Named-rank adventurers. We employ them? For how much?”
Alrric was checking on how much you had to pay someone to fight like that. He’d always complained about salaries, even if he was a big proponent of paying [Miners] better—but how much did you put on that?
Two hours of fighting. It felt like you couldn’t manage ten minutes, but Salazsar’s forces were used to fighting, or mining, for long bursts. They were rotating troops off the front, but the front lines still engaging with the light-soldiers were furiously battling for their lives.
See—there was Lady Damia waving her Kaalglaive from well behind enemy lines, exhorting the troops. Silverfangs had united under Elia Arcsinger and Salazsar’s [Archers] and were volleying into any exposed area nonstop.
There was a clearing in the fighting as Alrric saw someone standing at the fore of the battle. Alrric leaned forwards.
“Ilvriss?”
There he was. The Wall Lord came into view as he appeared on a giant scrying mirror in the main plazas of Salazsar.
His father, his administrator, his mother, his friends saw the Wall Lord. He was remarkably unhurt despite the fighting. A single cut marred his prismatic…purple…
What had happened to his scales? The Drake turned, and his eyes gleamed like the very gemstones his city was named after. His scales were still purple, but they had changed, taking on the colors of an opal. And his wings…
 
——
 
Helessia Gemscale couldn’t breathe. [Healers] rushed into her rooms, but she was pointing. And when they tried to turn the scrying orb off, she fought them.
She was gazing at his wings. They fluttered open as the Drake ran. So changed, but she would always recognize her son.
Wings.
It wasn’t…like he was the only Oldblood Drake anyone had ever seen. There were plenty, but—
 
——
 
In the City of Gems, Drakes were seeing the Wall Lord’s image being shone higher. On the sides of the towers. Someone had rigged up a projection spell, and citizens were pointing. Asking what was going on. Gnolls, Drakes, and a few other species, yes.
But it was the Drakes who went stumbling. Some nearly walked off catwalks or into traffic. They would look up, recognize Ilvriss, see those wings, and their minds would shut off.
For a moment, they’d be children again. Reading stories of Dragons and their ancestors of old. Seeing those Drakes flying with Dragons and dreaming of it.
Wings. How? How had he…?
To them, it was as important as seeing that Archmage fly. A dream that they’d forgotten they had, recaptured. Like seeing the Flying Gnoll of Pallass.
A million pairs of eyes followed the Wall Lord, and he was still running, larger than life, as his forces fought glowing Drakes. As if they’d come straight out of the storybooks into reality.
If they had been able to call the New Lands, the Meeting of Tribes, return of the King of Destruction, the ghosts—everything—anomalies, craziness, but within the keeping of this time, this was the final blow. Men and women and children going to their ordinary jobs working for the companies gazed up and wondered if this was the era of fantasies.
And if so—
What were they doing here? 
Still, Ilvriss ran.
 
——
 
The Son of Salazsar was shouting.
“Hold the line! Don’t give up on me now! I’m not laying your pay slip on a grave! Do you know how much a funeral and pension costs?”
—He was still doing it too. If anything, his voice seemed more confident. He spun, and Alrric saw he had on a crimson cloak. Was it enchanted? The Drake wasn’t holding a sword, but he strode past the fighting [Soldiers], a squad of battered Rubirel Guard following him.
He was peering around, gauging the fighting. Alrric was sure that one of the other leaders, like Major Shellc, was directing the actual battle from behind the scenes, but Ilvriss was on the front. He ducked an arrow, cursing, and Alrric heard some pithy language.
“—gargling ballsacks of a Oliphant—”
He’d never heard Ilvriss swear like that. To be fair, Alrric had never seen the Wall Lord fighting up close. Practicing swordplay, or as a tiny image at the Meeting of Tribes, yes. But this?
Was Ilvriss mad? One arrow while his rings were recharging and he was dead. But it was working. He went striding down the line again, then spotted something.
A knot in the fighting. Another group had plunged too far in and refused to pull back. Only, this time, it wasn’t a hairbrained charge by a young Human [Lady].
No, happily, it was Wall Lord Dramm who had rushed forwards with his entourage, thinking to press an attack. From above, his section looked like a bulging ball of shrinking bodies; he was being enveloped.
The young idiot was making it worse because he kept shouting the same ironic phrase used by dead Drakes.
“Drakes don’t run! Hold! Hold, damnit! Drakes don’t—”
“That idiot!”
Alrric thought he was about to see a dead young Wall Lord. Ilvriss seemed to believe so too. He froze, pointing, and the Rubirel Guard tried to advance, but they’d be too slow. Dramm was swinging his sword wildly, and the light-soldiers were closing in. So the Wall Lord looked around—up—and then sighed.
He flung the cloak back to let his wings unfurl with a snap, then leapt. One of the Rubirel Guard tried to grab his legs, but it was too late. The Wall Lord flew up—and fell.
Straight into the middle of the fighting. He snapped his wings open as he landed and sent allies and enemies stumbling back. Dramm whirled.
“Wall Lord! Wh—”
Ilvriss strode over, headbutted Dramm, and shoved the dizzy young Wall Lord back at his people.
“Get him out of here! You idiots—retreat! Enough of quoting Sserys! Real Drakes run when they have to! And fight when—”
A sword nearly pierced his stomach. Ilvriss whirled, and it then became clear that his saving Dramm meant the entire area of fighting was collapsing.
On him. Light-soldiers advanced, and Ilvriss didn’t have—
Where was his sword? He dodged another sword, then grabbed an arm. Alrric saw Ilvriss pivot—then he performed a shoulder throw.
The light-Drake went flying over Dramm’s head as the dizzy Wall Lord sat up. Ilvriss pivoted, kicked another light-soldier in the ground, and when that didn’t work, swept a leg. He backhanded another version of Vnariss, and then he was boxing, punching.
And still shouting.
“We are more than one damn Drake! Look at the folly of Naamreles! We are Salazsar—if I fall, keep fighting! Drakes, Gnolls, Humans—with me!”
He sounded a bit like that young [Lady] from House Reinhart. Only, Wall Lord Ilvriss was under attack as he said all this. A slash cut across his armor. He staggered as an arrow hit him from behind and went down—had he locked legs with another of the light-soldiers to trip the Drake up?
—He came up after four heart-stopping seconds and threw another light-Gnoll. He was throwing them into each other, and the Rubirel Guard finally cut forwards. But the Wall Lord wasn’t done.
He wiped blood running down his cheek from his face as one of the versions of Vnariss got an opening. But it stopped and ran that eerie light over Ilvriss’ body.
They’d largely given up on scanning, but maybe the Wall Lord’s clear Oldblood ancestry had provoked the scan.
The copy of Vnariss spoke.
“Analysis: 50% genetic viability.”
Even it seemed confused a moment before Ilvriss drew a dagger and threw it through the Drake’s eye, and it vanished. He swept his cloak off his shoulders; it was clearly getting tangled. The Drake turned.
“Oldblood doesn’t matter. This is where that line of thinking ends. With me. With me!”
Then he inhaled—and Alrric saw him exhale something that glittered and burst. The light-soldiers threw up their shields, but something coated their armor, their ‘skin’, and hardened.
Crystals. It weighed down the light-constructs, some to immobility, and Ilvriss exhaled again. Only then did he cough and turn.
His tail swished on the grass as he lifted a fist. He practically sauntered back behind the lines. Alrric was a very happily-married Gnoll with a loving wife.
But he had to stare at Ilvriss’ tail, and he wasn’t sure if he’d ever seen tail-movements that suggestive on—more than one citizen of Salazsar experienced a moment of worrying confusion before putting it down to a trick of the light.
Certainly, the Wall Lord didn’t stop there. He rested one knee on a crate of ammunition, speaking to one of the [Archers], and his armor and pants outlined his body until someone blocked the shot. Possibly for his dignity, although dead gods, what did the Wall Lord have to be ashamed of?
Eye-catching. A presence larger than life. Captivating in his new form, in leadership and presence and—
Ulva Terland stood apart from Ilvriss, a forgotten heroine conducting Golems to war, eying the rising son of Salazsar. Across from them, a giant bull covered in wounds was deigning to let Lady Desinee clean his cuts—though Naamreles’ weapons left virtually no chance of infection—and the [Rancher]-lords and ladies fought for their lands.
Magic being plucked from fallen constructs’ hands. Levels gained by every person fighting. And more—more coming to give battle.
 
——
 
It was the only thing she could do.
Mrsha du Marquin was not stupid enough to join the fighting with the robes of Warmage Thresk or his staff.
She just…walked into a building after climbing a good-sized hill. Stopping to listen to the clamor outside. Moved slowly, despite the need.
She found him inside, for once, though she hadn’t thought to. But when the man turned from tending to the glowing, green flame, Mrsha stood there.
Almost ashamed. She didn’t want to do this. Not to them—but it was why they had been formed.
He would have wanted her to tell him.
“Mrsha? What’s going on?”
Dame Ushar said nothing as Mrsha handed Grandmaster Normen of the Order of Solstice a card. He read it, asked a few questions—and then his burned features firmed. He took something from the inner keep of the Order of Solstice, a single lantern glowing with green fire, and Mrsha wiped at her eyes.
The [Grandmaster] noticed and bent to hug her. And she didn’t tell him his stupid armor pinched her fur terribly. When Normen rose, he smiled once.
“We’re not ready. But we will never be. And we’re more ready than last time.”
So saying, he strode out of the Celestial Keep, still being built, and called out. Gnolls, Antinium, Drakes, Humans, and a half-Troll girl looked up. They listened—then, when Normen pointed, they began to run.
Antinium [Squires]. Over two hundred of them. Gnolls like Dekava Silverfang, holding yet-unlit lanterns. Waiting for their flame.
Armored—streaming for the [Portal Door] held open by a grim Liska.
Reinforcements.
Mrsha stood there as the remaining [Knights] that Normen had left to hold the keep should none return tried to go back to practicing, then ran to find a scrying orb. Then, heavily, she returned to the inn to see how it ended.
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice joined the fighting at the five-hour mark. The initial assault from the light-brigades had slowed, but with alarming regularity, Dig Site B spat out another group.
The Purifiers were almost completely entrenched around Dig Site B and the town of Thirthoof, engaged in a perpetual cycle of cleanup and explosion. Filth-elementals were rising as the Purifiers concentrated the waste, then detonated, unable to contain that much sewage. It was also pulling off some of the light-brigades who engaged the muck-monsters, but the rest kept attacking Salazsar’s position.
They ran into Golems launching spells, a rain of arrows from Lord Xitegen and the [Ranchers], flaming [Knights], Silverfang Gnolls, Salazsarian heavy armor troopers, the occasional pickaxe, and at least one bull too angry to die.
…It couldn’t last. Major Shellc had made a prediction.
“We can operate for three more hours at most before we begin to buckle. The moment we begin taking excessive casualties, the effect will snowball, and we’ll be overrun. Either we get help from Pallass or some other force or we’re dead. Lady Ulva’s reinforcement Golems will not make it in time.”
The faster Golems might, but not enough to turn the tides. Nor was the [Major] hopeless; he saw this entire affair as the opening salvo of a true battle, if not war.
They needed time. They needed to regroup, analyze which strategies were working, dig in, cooperate, and heal.
They would not have it. The power of Naamreles was to overwhelm and not quit. If they had space, hundreds of miles, it was conceivable they might wipe enough troops to get that time. Not with the City of Purity on top of them.
Yet the Drake was cool. Calm, even. He delivered this strategic assessment to Salazsar, and he was sure their High Command was counting which [Strategists] had figured this out and had viable solutions.
Major Shellc let the bigwigs, higher-ups, and brass confer and then ignored whatever they were going to say. Because, of course—
He’d come up with this analysis in the first twenty minutes of fighting. He had simply reaffirmed his hypothesis with actual observations and data. Now, the Drake raised a separate speaking stone to his mouth.
“Wall Lord, I trust you heard all that. We must slow the City of Purity.”
“Understood, Major Shellc. We are in position. We will begin the operation—now. Going mana-quiet unless we are compromised or need long-range Skills. Wish us luck.”
Major Shellc nodded tightly. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ voice was terse and a bit echo-y. But Shellc kept his posture, leaning on his war desk, not giving the enemy any signs he’d just said or done anything significant. They were probably dumb constructs, but they were adapting tactics. Slightly.
He went back to directing the battle, eying the Wall Lord who was still encouraging the troops from the front. Ilvriss didn’t seem to tire as he held a shield up awkwardly. He was dynamic, with the right thing to say to every soldier, captivating his city and everyone else with his charisma. Oh, and he had that stupid cloak back on.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss sneezed, then cursed as more dirt cascaded down around him. He was covered in it, and how not?
Five hours, more or less, of sneaking across the Cowpat Plains—literally crawling through cowpats in his armor—and then digging. He was covered in filth and would have liked nothing less than for a Purifier to clean him up.
But since running into one of those would botch this entire mission, he just stifled another sneeze.
“Damn. I forgot to ask if Xesci’s doing alright.”
He hoped she hadn’t gotten hurt, playing ‘him’. She’d volunteered, saying only she could do it. And it made sense to Ilvriss, because he had to be here.
This mission was going to win or lose the battle as much as holding the line up there. He had ten of the Rubirel Guard, three [Mages]—and Captain Osthia’s squad. All volunteers.
The Drake herself had somehow weaseled her damn way onto this mission despite having probably broken twenty or more bones. She’d insisted—and when he’d told her she was too hurt, she’d flown off and gotten Magus Grimalkin to cast [Restoration] on her.
Changing tactics. Even a healing potion couldn’t have done that. He and the other [Mages] were providing magical fire support, but Ilvriss had requested they save their mana for [Restoration] spells if possible.
He just hoped there’d be enough of them left to heal. He leaned against one wall and regarded his command squad.
“You heard Shellc. This has to be done. Now, to repeat the plan so we all understand it: we are to collapse the entrance tunnels to the City of Purity and everything else. The old mining shafts will be a problem given how they were reinforced, but if we can just tremor enough dirt, it’ll buy us time. Days, or if we’re lucky, the constructs will just forget we’re up here. Once the collapse starts, anyone trapped down there is dead. So we move fast, but we cannot hesitate. Understand?”
Everyone nodded. They’d dug down around Dig Site B to get to the mining shafts. Slow, stealthy mining while they heard the fighting above. Anxiety-producing. But they’d had to go slow to avoid detection.
Shellc had tried to collapse the mine shafts, but he’d only had time for a single spell. The magicore had absorbed the spell, and while it had slowed the light-forces, they’d just cleared the tunnels near the surface.
However…they had only one path of egress to the surface, via Naamreles’ ancient mineshafts. Collapse those and the security systems might not know where the ‘enemy’ was any more. Or they’d lose cohesion or, at very least, have to dig up through countless tonnes of dirt. The only problem would be collapsing the mineshaft and not dying.
Hence the tense Drakes and Gnolls, Rubirel Guard, Advance Miners, and Ilvriss. The Wall Lord checked his armor and sword. It sparked as he willed fury into it.
I am not going to die here. Especially not before I clear up that kiss with Lyonette.
It might be a stupid reason, but it worked for him. There was only one commenter. Advance Miner Georgie just had to say something.
“Listen, Wall Lord, I can see why I’m here. You need the best man for the job. Which is me.”
He ignored the other seven [Advance Miners] glaring at him. Georgie hefted his enchanted pickaxe on one shoulder as he gritted a fresh cigar between his teeth.
“—But why’re you here? We don’t risk the executives on this kinda thing. Sure you can’t get Magus Grimalkin?”
“Shut it, Georgie.”
Someone began, but Ilvriss held up a claw. He smiled at Georgie and got a gritted smile in return. They nodded at each other.
“Three reasons, Georgie. One, I have the levels and Skills to boost you all. [Opulence Guard], my Skill, will let us tank attacks when we’re noticed. Second—I have a magic sword that can kill constructs and, I hope, even Purifiers. Third, I’m not going to ask you to commit to a mission of this danger without doing the same.”
“Hmf. Sure. What if you’re that fake Ilvriss?”
Georgie grunted, but Ilvriss just smiled. As everyone braced for Georgie to breach into the mining tunnels, he whispered back.
“There’s only one way to tell us apart, Georgie. One Ilvriss can breathe magical Dragonbreath, use his wings, and is, I daresay, a charismatic, captivating Wall Lord.”
“Uh huh. And what makes the other one unique?”
Georgie tapped the wall, and it collapsed. The tunnel was aglow with marching light-soldiers coming up. Someone cursed—but Osthia’s squad was already charging forwards. One of the Rubirel Guard unrolled the Tier 5 scrolls, and Ilvriss began to run, heart pumping. He passed by Georgie as the [Advance Miner] threw his pickaxe through the first rank of surprised light-constructs. Then Ilvriss was shaking his hips right to left. Waggling his tail.
He ignored the look Georgie was giving him.
“This Ilvriss can dance.”
In hindsight, he really wished that sounded better.
 
——
 
Major Shellc saw the Drakes made of glowing magic visibly slow, and Shellc swore they grew…fuzzy.
Did that mean they were being projected upwards after all, like the Archmage of Izril was speculating? He hoped so, because it had turned a desperate holding action into a battle that could be won. He began broadcasting the news, of course.
“A strike force has collapsed the tunnels leading into Naamreles! The enemy is out of reinforcements! Hold the line and we have them!”
He heard cheering, but the reason Shellc was being so loud was because victory was no surefire thing. The [Major] was sweating.
This was going to come down to the wire. The dirt-fortress that Salazsar had constructed was under siege from three cardinal directions. If it was breached, or their other allies lost their nerve, he’d have to call for a full retreat.
The light-forces of Naamreles were a bog of glowing limbs throwing themselves at Salazsar’s walls. They were like that joke you told about the heathen barbarous enemies of your nation: they attacked you en masse with little strategy, marching into your killzones.
The problem was it worked if you had so many bodies you could flood the area. Worse—he put them at Level 15 [Soldiers] in quality unless they combined or activated more advanced magics—which they could do.
But the light-soldiers resisted magic. A [Fireball] would cook a regular squad of troops or leave them so disoriented and hurt they were functionally mincemeat. Hit a squad of Naamreles’ forces and the ones not blown to bits would get up and keep fighting.
The true danger was like Shellc’s studies of the Antinium; if the light-soldiers surrounded you, anyone but someone in plate armor was dead. And they pushed.
“Our western flank is folding! Do not let them encircle us! Ranchers, give me a skirmishing line, there! [Form Battle Line]!”
Shellc was engaged in a brutal clash along Salazsar’s dirt-fortress; his entire objective was to keep the elements of the light-forces from encircling Salazsar’s position. As long as he kept their rear open, they could rotate soldiers out for healing and keep ammunition stocked.
The moment they were encircled, they died. The enemy seemed to know this, despite not having a living leader, and were advancing again. They were slowed by Shellc’s only tools. The [Ranchers], who rode and shot arrows from horseback. A skirmishing line of irregulars who could maneuver and fire.
Their angry cattle could provide a flanking charge as well, but the animals had no real direction. Lady Desinee could direct them, but then they’d be butchered unless he gave them an escape route.
Suboptimal, and he had no healing potions. However, Shellc’s other tool was the Golems under House Terland. And Ulva Terland was a seasoned commander.
The light-Gnolls armed with bows were beginning to shower the [Ranchers] with their light-arrows when a trio of Golems moved forwards and screened the [Ranchers] with glowing barrier spells. Then one rolled forwards—it had wheels instead of feet—aimed its odd body upwards, and began launching arrows nonstop.
One of Xitegen’s personal Golems. Mobile artillery that spat arrows at the archers. That allowed the whooping [Ranchers] to rain down arrows on the advancing Drakes, but in response, the Drakes just projected those damn shields above their heads.
Cue Battle Golems, who smashed into them. The light-soldiers began to swarm the steel Golems—then pivoted, a hair too late. Cattle charge from the left flank; Rubirel Guard leading an advance from Salazsar’s fortifications.
Grind them down. The light soldiers didn’t stop, of course. They kept pouring into the pincer attack, and they’d eventually overwhelm the other groups and force a victory. Now that their numbers were limited, maybe Shellc could wear them down, but he had no fallback point from Salazsar’s fortress.
So they had to break the lines here. The [Swordgrace Major]’s eyes glinted as he saw the western flank bunching up. Thousands of the light-soldiers pushing to advance…
“Now! Major Shellc, requesting bombardment spells! On my position! Fire for effect!”
A [Scrying Mage] standing next to him flashed the sea of enemy soldiers up, and Shellc waited. He stared upwards, and this was the part that made his guts churn.
“Come on. Come on…”
He didn’t know who he was speaking to. Truly. Shellc prayed for magic from the skies like a man dying of thirst prayed for rain. And then he saw the air twist. A gigantic spell circle appeared in the sky, and he breathed out. Three of them.
Spells came down.
A tornado, two bolts of [Grand Lightning]—and a hail of magical arrows. They merged together, and winds hurled bodies of light-Drakes skywards. Some survived, despite the magical arrows raining down everywhere—Shellc cursed and ducked his head down.
“Beware of enemy soldiers landing around you! To anyone watching—no wind spells! Don’t hurl the enemy around! Reinforcements coming from the north!”
He pointed out another wave of reinforcements, hoping they were one of the last ones. And he gazed up at the skies again.
 
——
 
Major Shellc’s image of the enemy soldiers he needed dead were playing on scrying spells in other kingdoms, as was his commentary. Demanding fire support.
The effrontery of this Drake. [Kings] and [Queens] glared at him. Then asked their [Mages] how many spells they had. Demanded to know if Wistram was…
They were watching, of course. There were jamming spells everywhere. Terland Golems? Naamreles’ magic in the Purifiers?
Whatever it was, the battles were flashes of images. You’d get fifteen seconds of one particular area, then the scrying spells would fizzle out, go dark, and the [Mages] would need another coordinate. Major Shellc was getting around that by sending [Magic Pictures] with coordinates.
It wasn’t their war. In truth, the Five Families were probably sending the most magic. But even distant nations in Terandria were watching.
Naamreles. A name they had in their history books. The name provoked the same unsettling nervousness, the tension that had not left the hearts and bowels of the mighty since the Winter Solstice. Or even before that.
Once more, kingdoms tried to throw magic and Skills across the world. But they had spent their magics again and again—instead of one-time scrolls, it was linked [Mages] firing Tier 5 spells off, using all their magic to contribute a single spell to the battlefield. And the Drake was demanding dozens of such spells. But no nations wanted to spend their artifacts.
Ailendamus had hurled two dozen spells in the battle already. All products of their linked [Mages]. A sign they truly could influence the world. Lesser nations? One.
But Ailendamus had ample reason; occasionally, someone could see a Human man fighting at the front of Salazsar’s forces. Not in the vanguard around Ilvriss, directly facing the buried City of Purity, but holding down the eastern flank.
Virtually unsupported. He was two dozen feet in front of the spear walls and trenches, fighting with his clothing akimbo, surrounded by light-soldiers. At first, you thought he was being sent to die—until he threw a punch and sent the enemy around him scattering like dandelion seeds blown by the wind. He was throwing spells too.
So was the Archmage of Izril. She and several [Mages], including the Mage Runner, Salamani, and Magus Grimalkin, were launching spells skywards into the Drakes. There were fires blooming around one section of the battlefield as well; the Knights of Solstice were burning down the light-soldiers, refusing to yield before the forces trying to overwhelm the eastern flank and get around the defenders.
Lines in the sand. Magic from above. But reinforcements?
Not many of them. They kept coming from Celum, yes. Golems marching from the Terland’s holdings, even running south at such speed they made it to the battlefield. [Assassins]—yes, [Assassins], including one who managed to behead a Purifier as it lumbered down on the Drakes.
But where was Pallass? Where were the other forces?
Too slow to react. Too unaware; there was no 2nd Army to mobilize, and 1st Army had standing orders to guard the City of Inventions. [Wyvern Riders] were flying from Salazsar and Manus, but they would take too long.
They’d have to teleport in, if that was even possible, and there was only one force in the world who could do that, or at least, advertised they could.
Wistram Academy had tried it twice. The Archmage of Memories had clearly thought to prove that Wistram was everywhere, and with the Archmage of Izril fighting for her life, he had sent a strikeforce. The ‘Super Soldiers’ armored in enchanted platemail who could fly and [Battlemages]—a squad of thirty.
Enough, by his calculations, to make an impact. What Eldavin hadn’t considered was that Naamreles was a city whose magic was as advanced as his. They knew about teleporting [Mages].
The first squad had appeared inside the largest formation of light-soldiers. Only the [Barrier] spells on the [Mages] had saved them, and even then, half had been dead by the time they fought their way out. Even the Super Soldiers’ magical armor hadn’t saved them from a Purifier. They’d practically retreated off the battlefield, and the Archmage of Memories had tried a second force.
No one but Wistram knew a second attempt had been made. Eldavin still wasn’t sure where they’d gone. So he waited, pacing and cursing, determined not to look worse as shaken [Mages] asked about their friends.
The half-Elf ignored them. He was calculating which nations were sending magic so he could advertise Wistram’s services to them. Make it clear everyone needed long-ranged magic. That these events were only going to continue. Advertising. But he wasn’t sure who was going to win as he saw the western attack finally break.
The forces of Naamreles was making a push down the center now. Climbing over each other to just break that center line. Were they going to make it?
Did he want them to make it? The half-Elf didn’t know. His stomach hurt, but he watched as his advanced scrying spells finally broke through the interference. And he saw a man running to break the column of light-soldiers flooding forwards.
Just a man everyone knew.
 
——
 
It was a light war. Lord Xitegen Terland meant that sort of as a pun, but it was also true.
Dangerous as the Purifiers were, and the light-soldiers of ancient Naamreles, his heart had been pumping harder at the Winter Solstice. Against the Goblin King.
He still had nightmares about that crimson gaze. He still saw the Mortemdefieir Titan in his dreams, and that was why it was hard to be around his family.
They asked him if it was real. If it had happened. The people of Celum were humbler and did not know the north’s splendor. But they believed. And so did Lord Xitegen Terland.
He was younger than he looked, he knew. Most people didn’t believe he wasn’t a decade older, at least. It might have been his levels or stature. Or, more likely, the long siege that had cost him his entire family. It had aged him, the [Healers] said, more than merely physically. He’d had grey in his hair before he was even twenty. Lines that only deepened with the years.
So what? He was alive. Alive, when his parents and household had starved. After the soldiers and staff had starved, then eaten the dead. When one wondered why Lord Xitegen Terland was so high level, so relatively young—
That was why.
He was one of, perhaps, four people in this world to have charged the Goblin King twice. The second was Saliss of Lights. The third was a farmer named Himilt who Lord Xitegen suspected was a ‘Vampire’ that had the north so unsettled. The [Lord] was no fool; it became obvious, despite Erin Solstice’s trick, and rather, in spite of it. The last was Elia Arcsinger.
The Vampire Hunters would know that the val Lischelle-Drakles were Vampires after they had broken every Golem in House Terland, tortured him to death, and animated his corpse since he assumed undead had no concept of honor. A man who had fought the Goblin King twice should not be treated as less than a hero, unless he betrayed all trust—and he should be given all trust.
Now, Lord Xitegen had experienced a lot of unpleasant things since then. Having to team up with Goblins against the Titan. The half-Elf, Tolveilouka, Wall Lord Ilvriss being in the north—
He did not like these things. He did not trust the Drakes or the inn, and this was all Ilvriss’ fault, in a sense. The high point had been the excellent cookout. Xitegen thought of all these things…and he would continue thinking about them when he returned to his mansion, poured himself a light brandy, and sat with a charcuterie board and considered what it meant, what was good and wrong and his part in it all.
But as the light-arrows rained down around him, the [Lord] of House Terland just gazed up. The [Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity]. Level 49. And he felt it was incredible to be living in these times.
He did not think he entirely deserved his levels. But he had challenged the Goblin King twice. Seen a dead goddess bringing a hundred thousand Draugr to life. Yes, it was a lighter war, despite the desperation. They could always retreat.
So…to speed up his too-calm heart, Xitegen went jogging forwards. He heard someone shout at him, but he had never liked following orders. Even Ulva’s.
His thick thighs carried him across the ground as his running outfit caught the falling lights. A glossier material, light, breathable—he took off his coat. He was wearing running shoes, of course. They just looked vaguely like a nobleman’s since he’d had them polished black.
Ryoka Griffin had once told him he had good running form. Arms moving in sync with his legs; when one rose, the opposite arm rose with it. His hands made blades as he held his fingers straight out, pumping, eyes fixed on the middle distance, over the heads of the soldiers.
“Hold the line! Hold until the tunnels are collapsed—”
Some Drake was telling everyone they were sapping the tunnels, or it might have been done. An end to these reinforcements—but in answer, the light-legions were mounting an offensive. The Purifiers were still gorging themselves and exploding like pimples of rot and ruination.
How beautifully abhorrent. The ground smelled like crap, but Xitegen had good purchase on it, even if he kicked up a bit of soil. When he turned his head and heard the thumping, he saw Controller Lectara running behind him.
A good woman who was piloting a Golem made for that purpose. Armor encased her, and despite the huge weight of the metal frame around her, which turned her into a giant in plate armor like a War Walker, she was running. Sprinting thanks to her new Skills. She’d levelled up well.
What?
Oh…she was calling his name. Xitegen Terland glanced down and realized the ground was moving under his feet at commendable speed.
I’m faster. He slowed and realized that Primera and Seconda were with him, as ever. But the foot-soldiers and Golems were further back. So he turned and jogged in a curve as light arrows hit the ground behind him. Faster. Faster—until his heart was singing.
[Run, Like My Beating Heart].
Such a fanciful Skill for a man of his dignity. But he had to run, didn’t you see? He did not necessarily like being on the side of Drakes. Or playing into this alliance. Or letting his brave people and Golems die here.
But she was there. Standing with the wind blowing in her hair, firing arrows down at the nearest Purifier, next to the Antinium.
Elia Arcsinger.
He hadn’t been wrong about her. She’d just forgotten who she was. All the trust in the world. The Named-rank adventurer was loosing arrows into the mass of soldiers coming at Salazsar’s forces. They were set—but they needed help. So, Xitegen caught his forces.
“With me!”
“[Follow the Standard]! [Raise the Banner of House Terland]!”
Lectara cried, and her armor projected the crest of House Terland over her head. How lovely. Xitegen thought the Golems who saw it moved faster—and he heard Primera’s heart singing.
I’m sorry. He peered at his bodyguard Golem and had so many questions. Then Xitegen ran on the guilt, his queries. The sight of Elia Arcsinger.
Arrows. Some Gnoll copied ten thousand times had seen his forces moving. They were sending more arrows raining down. Even—a light-ballista?
He saw something streaking towards him and ran left. His forces thundered left with him, and the ground exploded in showers of dirt. Now, his arms and legs were pumping. He remembered running at the Goblin King like this. If this wasn’t all a dream he was having as he lay upon the battlements, a child—
To make sure he wasn’t dreaming, he forced more energy into his legs and arms until he was gasping. Until the ground was truly blurring—then he saw the light-Drakes turning. Pivoting as a wing saw his forces coming. Xitegen was running across them. The light-Drakes spun, spears lowered to block his charge—but he just jogged past the spears. Refused to run into a damn line of pikes. He pointed one finger right.
“[Again, Again, and Ever Again]—”
His famous Skill. Shields appeared in the soldiers’ hands, and they raised them skywards. They’d seen his trick. Lovely adaptation. Xitegen stared into the eyes of a long-dead Drake who smiled at him. And Xitegen thought he could hear his weary soul asking for relief.
“[Covering Fire]! [Point-Blank Volley].”
Little holes in the air opened next to Xitegen—and then the arrows loosed. Not from above, but horizontally. A point-blank barrage. Piercing arrows, too.
Upgrades.
The light-soldiers jerked as the arrows hit them. Xitegen kept running as the lines of Drakes began to vanish—then they dropped their shields. So he rained arrows on them from above.
“House Terland, with me!”
He was still running, circling the Drakes, who had to slow and block his formation. But then Controller Lectara fired a [Ray of Incineration] as she ran. Golems unloaded spells as they moved, and Primera tossed a [Greater Force Orb] into the light-Drakes’ formation.
“Lord Terland! Purifier!”
Another one had approached the battlefield. Xitegen gazed up, and he remembered the Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn. He hadn’t been able to challenge them. If he had been the same level…
He was jogging at it when it vanished. Exploded in a shower of muck. Xitegen shielded his face at the smell, then looked down.
“Ah. You.”
So that was where the real Lord Ilvriss was. He had emerged from behind the light-soldiers. Which indicated that they were cut off from reinforcements if the [Major] shouting in Xitegen’s ears was any indication.
Some [Miner] had thrown a pickaxe through the Purifier. That, unfortunately, had just attracted every light-soldiers’ attention, and the Wall Lord was running from more arrows. And spellcasters.
That was really unpleasant to see; another light-Drake, female, with robes, conjuring what looked like [Fireballs] made out of yellow light. It was so unpleasant, in fact, that Lord Xitegen ran into her formation.
“[Full Momentum Kick].”
He saw her turn, and his foot hurt, but the blow blew apart her barriers and the light-mage. The copies of her went down as Primera ripped one’s head off, and his forces were on top of—
“Fall back! Fall back!”
Then they were gone again. And Xitegen was running at the Wall Lord. They locked gazes, and Ilvriss shouted.
“Lord Xitegen—”
“With me! We have to divide them or they’ll overrun us!”
The light-soldiers were getting distracted. Their push against the Salazsar wall was faltering. That was all they needed to do. Divide and conquer. Leave strategy to [Strategists].
It was just that Xitegen’s forces from Celum were maybe a thousand men and Golems because Liska had been able to send no more. They were dead the moment they were surrounded. And here came the light cavalry. Xitegen saw their lances dipping. He swore, out of the corner of his eyes, he saw Ilvriss dance-running next to him.
“Objectively hilarious.”
“Leave the [Riders]! We need to charge the center; they’re going to combine into mini-purifiers and attack!”
That might break the Salazsarian defenders. Xitegen didn’t trust Ilvriss’ precognition that much. But when he turned, eying the center of the light-soldiers’ mass—he saw air glow before the Golem leapt.
Yweine landed, swinging a sword made of magic through the light-Drakes riding horses with long, scaled tails and who looked lizard-like. When they tried to lance her, she turned, pointed a hand forwards, and each claw on her talon rocketed off her hands and fired into the enemy around her.
Then the claw tips detonated. She swung around, and before the rest of the lances could touch her, they exploded in a shower of lightning. Xitegen raised his hand, squinting, and another man was running forwards.
Nerul Gemscale was no born runner. But he led the charge of the Erchirite Spears.
“Nephew! Get out of here!”
Every Erchirite Spear of Salazsar was present—a full battalion of a thousand. Disguised [Miners]—Xitegen saw Ilvriss shouting.
“Uncle, you get out of here! Don’t be a fool—”
“Wall Lord, we are escorting you out of danger. Do not resist.”
Yweine strode forwards, and Xitegen would have loved to talk to her as well. However, Ilvriss was pointing.
“They’re combining! We have to attack! Major Shellc!”
Sure enough, the Drakes were stepping back from the fighting. Walking towards each other, smiling, and forming glowing orbs of light. The orbs were getting bigger, and the first one disgorged a Drake that was twelve feet tall.
Light-soldiers able to break the enemy lines and fight Golems on equal footing. Xitegen hit one with arrows and watched the light implode.
“I concur. Gentlemen—if we nobly charge the foe, we may stop the worst of the casualties and all die. Since there are two Wall Lords here and one of me, I consider it a worthwhile trade. Shall we? Or shall we bravely pretend we were better than doing the right thing?”
Nerul hesitated. He looked to Yweine, whose eyes flickered. A Golem with a spark of light behind them.
“The action is tactically sound. However, I shall escort you and the Wall Lord back—”
She didn’t want to die. Xitegen smiled. He regarded Primera and Seconda and wondered if they wanted to run. But he was a bad man; he didn’t ask.
“I’m with you, Lord Xitegen. Let’s go. Georgie, fall back with the non-combatants.”
Ilvriss snapped at the Drake who’d thrown the pickaxe, and the fellow hesitated. Before anyone could make up their minds, there was a voice.
“You don’t know how to charge the foe, boy. You do it like a drunken [Sailor]. You, Drakes. And you damn cow-riding fools, with me.”
Xitegen turned, and if he had thought his heart leapt to see Elia Arcsinger, it truly beat now. For there she was.
Ulva Terland appeared terribly afraid. She was sitting on her Dais of Health. But she was making it fly forwards as she carried the conductor’s wand. Timekeeper and all her personal Golems were with her—and to the right? Marvus and Aronia Lischelle. He was trying to get his wife to leave, but the [Ranchers] were with him. Even some of the bulls too angry to quit.
“Great Aunt, House Terland cannot afford to lose both its leaders.”
“Quiet, boy. You sound like a coward, and we are many things, but not cowards. Ranchers of the Plains, to me!”
Ulva shouted, and Marvus rode forwards, breathless.
“They’re turnin’ into super-Drakes. If we run into them and can’t get out—”
“Then we die. Or we cut through. Don’t stop or turn. Trust me. I will lead the charge.”
Ulva Terland pointed.
“Wall Lord, you and your spears fire left. Xitegen, behind me. [Ranchers], fire right and do not stop. The Golems will fight; keep moving until we clear the other side!”
She paused, and no one argued with her, though even Xitegen had questions. Ulva turned her head, then shifted around in her seat.
“There’s no Petria. It’s the first battle I’ve faced without her.”
She breathed out, and for a moment, he feared she’d crumble. But then Ulva Terland just gazed down.
“You are no Petria. But I have no other choice. With me. Hearts of Golems, thunder! House Terland, forwards! Create a breach!”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland pointed, and the air split as the first Golem unleashed a beam of flames. Timekeeper followed as her dais sped up, and there was a second—everything froze, and the Golems smashed through the first rank of light-soldiers. Then the second.
She’d gone in so fast even Xitegen was running to catch up. Wall Lord Ilvriss and Nerul Gemscale were running to the left, and Marvus Lischelle was swearing a storm on the right. For a moment, they caught each other’s eyes.
Ilvriss, Nerul, Xitegen, Marvus—all of them approaching that next step or who had begun the climb. Nerul and Xitegen locked eyes and felt it.
It was calling to them. Something beyond anything they knew. Their next level.
It was she who led them forwards, that glorious heroine of House Terland he had always remembered. Ulva Terland pointed.
“Five Families, follow! Forwards, you Golems of flesh and bone! [Awaken, Hearts of Izril].”
His heart—! Xitegen felt himself speeding up as it thundered, louder and more furiously than he had ever known. He was running, sending arrows flying left and right—and he saw green flames bursting along Salazsar’s lines.
The Order of Solstice. Salazsar was counter-charging. But Ulva—
The giant light-soldiers were forming. Trying to halt the advance. It was stalling. Timekeeper slammed into a giant Drake and was fighting, punching. The other Terland Golems grappled with their foe.
“The Doom of Naamreles will end.”
“To the Matriarch.”
“Bear witness.”
Voices without inflection that still conveyed something. A Steel Wargolem bringing down a bladed elbow into a light-soldier’s head. A Golem shaped like a Gnoll stumbling as a warhammer was brought down on its shoulder.
A desperate [Rancher] lassoing one of the light-soldiers, pulling it back to keep it from mincing one of the Erchirite Spears. Xitegen kept running, seeing it all. And then he saw Ulva Terland’s dais go crashing down.
“Great Aunt—”
A light-soldier had knocked it down. Xitegen was charging at it as Ulva arose, blood running down from her forehead. She pointed the conductor’s wand up, fearlessly, waving it like she were still hearing a song.
“[To Me, Servants of My Proud House].”
She spoke, and the light-soldier thrust down at her. But it hit Lord Xitegen, and he landed on the ground as the spear overloaded his protection charms. Seared his flesh and bones.
I’ll live.
He was trying to get up, to grab Ulva Terland, when he wondered where those helpful Golems were. He didn’t see a lovely reinforcement. The giant light-soldier was glancing around for some, too. It turned—and looked up.
And up.
And up—until the largest Golem in all of Izril, the Light of the North, struck the ground with a fist. The earth quaked. Then it paused.
“LA-DY TER-LAND. ARE Y-OU WE-LL—”
It spoke, and Ulva Terland shouted.
“Light of the North, destroy every light-soldier!”
The Golem paused as light-soldiers milled around it, attacking its gigantic frame. It ignored them and regarded a Purifier, which stared up at the Golem. The great Golem opened its mouth, and Xitegen jerked his head away.
The beam of light blew a hole through the Purifier and two more. Then the Light of the North rose and was sweeping its arms around. Smashing Drakes flat.
“Keep moving! Out the other side!”
Ulva Terland’s words made the [Ranchers], Drakes, and even lesser Golems and men and women remember they were in the middle of battle. She rose and sat on the only vehicle she had left: Timekeeper’s shoulders. She pointed, and Xitegen began running again. Until they breached the other side.
Even then, the fighting didn’t end. But the light-soldiers were dwindling. Xitegen kept running until the last glowing form had vanished, and the Purifiers began flickering out as the Light of the North walked towards them.
It was not over, of course. But he did stop and drink some water Seconda handed him. Then…he saw the [Princess] running to hug Ilvriss and wondered who that Duke was, the one from Ailendamus.
He’d sworn he’d seen the fellow punching out an entire company of Drakes bare-handed. But the Lord of House Terland just decided to ask questions later. He did the only thing one did.
He made sure the wounded, Golems and people, were being seen to. Walked over to greet Elia Arcsinger. Made sure Farmer Himilt’s wife was well as she and her sister embraced and went about the difficult task of tending to the wounded and dead.
Then he went to check on his aunt.
 
——
 
That night, the television networks picked up on a story they weren’t really sure how to relate.
Er…armies of light-constructs attack in the Cowpat Plains! Which is really the name of the place! A Walled City dug up beneath our very feet, but halted, if temporarily, by an alliance of Salazsar, House Terland, [Ranchers], and—is someone smoking Dreamleaf?
It was already a crazy story, but one you could get behind—if you’d seen it. And surely someone had recorded it, but the copies were strangely hard to get ahold of.
None were coming from Salazsar despite eyewitnesses swearing up and down that they’d seen them. When someone had offered to sell Pallass News Network a copy, the bill had come to Sir Relz’s desk.
70,000 gold pieces to the care of House Reinhart. For half the recording.
He…was almost tempted to pay for it after having to sit in front of a camera and try to get answers. No one in the region was answering, and it wasn’t like the place was replete with Mage’s Guilds!
And someone was blocking scrying spells to the entire region. Which was fine. Just send a [Mage] from Pallass to the spot, right?
…Only the [Doorgnoll] claimed there wasn’t an exit point there. The [Mages] insisted she was lying, but she refused to open the door, and Sir Relz just gave up and hired a Magical Carriage instead.
When he finally got a [Mage] over there, the carriage never got to the site of the fighting. Instead, it was stopped by a [Lady] and a patrol of Golems.
The [Lady] had a glowing Golem’s Heart, and she introduced herself as Prithna Terland and informed Wistram News Network that the area was off-limits.
“By the authority of House Terland, this region has been sealed off.”
“But we’re the news—”
A Golem swung down a giant sword, and the news team backed up. The young woman smiled sweetly at them. Her heart…pulsed, and Sir Relz saw her gaze into the scrying orb.
“Please speak to Lady Ulva Terland or a representative of House Terland.”
“Miss, that is to say, Lady Prithna, we are Wistram News Network and representatives of Pallass.”
Her face never changed.
“And we are House Terland. Cross this line and you will be neutralized. By Golems.”
So that meant Sir Relz had to interview eyewitnesses raving about Drakes made of light appearing everywhere. A very entertaining Mayor Bootsy gave the best account, but when she said she was going back, she undercut the danger.
“Wait, back?”
“‘Sright, fancy newsman. It’s my home. Plus, I reckon there’s more call for us. Them Terlands are settlin’ down, and the damn Salazsarians are digging. Reckon we’ll bill ‘em for trauma and insist on walls, but I smell a fortune. And if there’s new boots down there, Mayor Bootsy will be wearing them!”
“Down where?”
She developed a twinkle-eyed smile and spat through a gap in her teeth.
“Can’t say.”
 
——
 
No one wanted to say. Even the miners who’d fled just got shifty-eyed and said ‘terrible thing, nearly died, but I guess I’ll be back to work. For the, uh, incentives.’
Naturally, everyone smelled a rat. But when the other Five Families politely inquired about the situation—did House Terland need help? Happy to send a few Named-ranks or a regiment, what’s with our lighthouse walking off—they ran into Ulva Terland.
Ulva Terland ignored everyone except for Deilan El and Magnolia Reinhart. She gave those two some time as they were heads of their families, but steadfastly refused to let anyone approach, even nobles.
The few who tried were sent back with a salve for the bumps on their heads. And spanked backsides. When an outraged conclave of Wellfar’s Admiralty demanded answers, her rejoinder was simple.
“If we need help, I’ll ask for it. We have it under control. I didn’t see you lot down there.”
“Down where? Lady Ulva, what is going on?”
And have you dug up a Walled City? The Wellfars were all glancing at each other. But the ones old enough to know Ulva Terland, the Ulva Terland of old, had a sinking feeling in their stomach. Ulva just grunted.
“I’m sure someone will have explanations at some point. I have to go.”
Golems were striding around behind her, their hearts beating. That told the Wellfars something. When one caught sight of Wall Lord Ilvriss running across the plains and hugging a little white Gnoll and swinging her around, then hugging a [Princess] and an Antinium—well, they did check their drinks for Dreamleaf too.
One of the oldest of Wellfar’s [Lords] raised a hand. Captain Adamaze looked Ulva in the eyes.
“Ulva. Tell me one thing. Was what we heard the Golems saying real? If it is a Walled City—really?”
His voice cracked with disbelief. The Admiralty leaned forwards, and Ulva Terland considered the question. Then she leaned forwards too, and her face of stone seemed to come alive.
“It was as real as the Winter Solstice.”
She cut the call on that. Belatedly, House Wellfar realized it might be further out of the loop than it wanted to be.
 
——
 
The deal was simple. Not that there was a written deal; Nerul was working on it, but it’d be the work of months, if not longer.
But Ilvriss had hopes. Now they’d found the City of Purity. All they had to do was, uh, re-dig it out.
They’d buried it pretty damn well with the Advance Miners’ help, but the [Miners] speculated that it was only a matter of time before the constructs got out, with that many of them. Even if they didn’t know how to dig for shit.
By the time they emerged, Salazsar would have real Gem Regiments ready for combat and specialized weaponry. Ilvriss was calling in everything he could, and the Sons and Daughters of the Wall had unanimously voted to send him reinforcements.
Even if they were hopping mad about the other unofficial part of the deal. Which was that whatever House Terland, the [Ranchers], or any of the interested parties found, they kept.
Oh, there might be a division of spoils, shares of the items, but more than one [Soldier] was swinging around a looted blade this night—as Enchanter Hedault politely screamed at them not to do that before he’d appraised them.
Keep what you take. Ilvriss had told them it was the only thing that kept Ulva Terland from killing them all.
Frankly, he wasn’t sure she wouldn’t try something, but the [Matriarch] seemed willing to admit that the City of Purity might be too hard for House Terland to take on alone. So, she, Marvus, and Ilvriss were going to sit down and come up with a plan of action.
For conquering the City of Purity.
No adventurers—unless they were hired. No games or infighting. They went in, they grabbed treasure, they walked out.
It’d probably go bad, but Ilvriss had seen the City of Purity. He sat, sipping a juice drink.
“It’s very…shiny.”
Lyonette just stared at him. Ilvriss ignored her poking him until it hurt too much.
“Ow, ow, stop that! Oh, fine. It’s all reflective surfaces or so it seems. Nothing to, ah, prove purity than seeing one’s reflection in the mirror. It’s actually so damn dazzling that the look we got at it was blinding—but Osthia got inside a building. She says the windows are tinted so you don’t get blinded inside. Predictably, she and her squad looted the place. Even their cups are enchanted.”
Everyone was hanging on his words. Ilvriss saw Georgie bragging about being the [Advance Miner] to all the other miners, who were giving him the time of day despite his personality. Lady Damia was still being tossed up and down by people cheering her—he winced as she finally threw up.
And he laughed. He laughed and sat there, feeling relieved, feeling a great battle ahead of him and risk—dead gods, the risk!—but relieved.
The city was real. Even if it hadn’t been—he glanced at his boots, and they twitched a bit. Lyonette noticed.
“I suppose you’ll have less time, what with all the action here.”
She sighed wistfully, and Ilvriss coughed.
“Actually. It might be pretty slow. We’re not going to risk a breach like that again. There might be a lot of periods of entire boredom. Followed by heart-stopping terror.”
“Oh? How so? Now that you know it’s there…”
She raised her brows, and he clarified.
“Now that we know it’s there, it’ll send waves of soldiers at us nonstop—if we go in the way the security systems remember. But if we find other points and send in Stealth Golems or [Rogues]…we have even more digging to do. It looked like a lot of the city had collapsed, and there’s all those damn filth-monsters. They’ll keep turning into trouble, so we do have to actually deal with the waste at some point.”
It turned out that after all that digging, they needed to do more digging! He sighed. At least they had a framework, and Lady Ulva Terland had Golems. Dead gods, Ilvriss loved Golems.
He was still eyeing Yweine. She had introduced herself, and he’d barely screamed at Nerul about the crazy deal, but Ilvriss had it on his calendar to do sometime this week. For now, he just sat back and laughed.
“Okay, okay. Let’s not talk about all that right now. Who wants a souvenir?”
Nanette Weishart was beaming as Mrsha pinched her nose; the place stank even worse now that the true origin of the smell that had plagued her had come up. Lyonette sighed.
“Ilvriss, come on. I have a hundred thousand questions, and I know you must be exhausted—but your Oldblood form? How does it feel to have wings? And—wait, souvenirs?”
Ilvriss modestly put one hand behind his back and felt at his bag of holding.
“I can see you’re not interested, Lyonette. But as Osthia’s people reminded me, whenever you visit a new city, you take souvenirs. I suppose I’ll let Nanette have the first pick.”
“Wall Lord, thank you so m—”
Nanette put her hands out, and Mrsha and Lyonette shoved her aside. They began to fight as Ilvriss peered around for Hedault. He waved at Bird, who was smiling as she waved back. The inn, triumph, and dead gods, no one he loved had died.
Except Merls. Ilvriss’ head bowed, but then he smiled and put the grief aside. He stood—and wondered, selfishly, what he’d get when he levelled.
He was a Drake, despite everything.
 
——
 
People were signing up for Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company, banging on the doors, asking if they could join up.
He was the talk of Salazsar. A hero who had challenged Sserys’ cursed words. Who’d fought his way through the enemy.
A Wall Lord, the very image of one.
And he had even grown wings. Become an Oldblood. There was a certain kind of traditionalist Drake who read a lot into that.
Wall Lord Zail might have been considered one of those Drakes, but he’d never really cared about Oldblood. The rest? Yes.
He was trembling in his rooms. He’d left Eschowar to scheme with the others. For once, he’d not been in the mood.
Everyone put it down to him being overwrought with relief that his son was alive after all that. And Zail was glad.
However…
His shaking wasn’t from that. It was from nerves. He’d watched the recording of the scrying spells—Salazsar was intercepting the others, and they’d leak eventually, but to his knowledge, this was the only recording of this particular incident and scene.
It wasn’t hard to see why; this scrying spell had been just before Ulva Terland had blocked all scrying spells, and most people had stopped watching after the battle was well and truly over. Zail, who had wanted to see all angles, had kept watching the footage until this had crossed his path.
Nearly three hours after all the fighting had ended, when the real Ilvriss had emerged and the [Princess] had run over to him with the white Gnoll girl, he’d been hugging people, trying to talk to Major Shellc, nothing to really see.
The Wall Lord was grinning, and it was really him; Zail had wondered if the fake Ilvriss was his son, but his son wasn’t good at fistfighting, let alone throws, and he would never have gone into a battle without his sword.
It was just one moment that not even the [Strategists] had paid attention to, yawning as they let Zail inspect the recording. They hadn’t seen him appropriate the memory crystal. So…it might be only he’d seen this.
Zail paused the recording again in his private scrying orb, which he’d been assured by the [Wardmistress] that no one could tap into. He saw the scene play out, rewound it, stopped it.
“There.”
It might be that this was the fake Ilvriss. Somehow. Or—no, he doubted it was faked, but maybe? Would someone have been that subtle? Ulva Terland? It wasn’t beyond her, but surely she’d have made it more obvious. The answer was more likely that it was real. But then…
Wall Lord Zail stared at the frozen image of Ilvriss, who had turned and was hugging an emerald Antinium with wings, beaming with delight.
Bird the Huntress. He was embracing her—just for a moment—before he went to high-five the others. An unguarded moment of…
An Antinium.
Zail vividly recalled Ilvriss being in his study, talking to him the day after Bird the Hunter had appeared on Pallass’ walls. They’d talked. About Bird and the Antinium, and that had led to…
Everything.
Zail rewound the clip. Played it. Stopped it. Went frame-by-frame until he’d burned it into his memory. Then, silently, he got up.
With his reclaimed strength of youth, he crushed the crystal and swept it into the fireplace and mixed it with ash. Then he went to sit.
Sit and think.
 
——
 
There was a party afterwards. Another damn party.
You had to have them. Victory celebrations, even if, as she kept pointing out, the threat of Naamreles wasn’t done.
Not by far. Even now, the damned light-sentinels were digging upwards. But they’d bought time before round two, and so, Ulva Terland allowed it.
She just didn’t partake of the wild, drunken celebrating. At least the Wall Lord was sober, but her heir apparent, Xitegen, was far too ready to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Marvus and toast.
Male camaraderie. It had been like this after they’d gone to save the Drakes from the Antinium. At first, it was all formality. Then you had Linter Veltras singing songs with Sserys.
“Ridiculous.”
But then, two decades ago you might have had Ulva Terland right with them. She forgot. You just got old and upsettingly crotchety, and she knew she had aged. Losing your twin sister did that.
Let Damia Reinhart be the one singing with beer mug in hand. The other one—Lady Desinee El? Well, a mother was allowed to be young, and she had done what was needed. There was even a damn giant bull drinking beer out of a trough.
That was normal. You saw strange things after battles. All that excitement and energy had to go somewhere. Ulva recalled one time she’d seen Sserys riding back from a fight, then jumping off his saddle and kissing the nearest three soldiers in a row. A Lady of House Wellfar, a Gnoll Chieftain, Zel Shivertail.
…There was a reason she was thinking of the past. And why Lady Ulva was walking around the party, despite being tired and wishing only for her bed. Her back hurt. Her damn dais was broken, and they’d lost a lot of Golems, despite Xitegen’s Skill. She had a headache from all the organizing she had to do.
“Nevertheless, I will not be kept from my conversation any longer. You. Halt.”
One of the countless soldiers milling about the party stopped on their way to the latrines. They were drunk and, when they turned, clearly one of the Silverfangs.
“Er, Lady?”
The Gnoll man squinted at Ulva unsteadily; he was wavering on his feet. Ulva spoke.
“You will answer my questions.”
“I, uh—yes, Miss? Are you sure you don’t have the wrong—”
“Timekeeper, if the shapechanger lies again, hit her.”
“Yes, La-dy Terland.”
The Golem loomed out of the darkness, and the Gnoll jumped, turned—then gave up midway and sighed.
“Damn auras. I thought I had done it convincingly too.”
Xesci turned her head, and in the darkness, her body shifted. Then she was the plain Drake once more. Lady Ulva felt her stomach flip-flopping.
“Golems cannot be fooled so easily.”
“Mm. Well, I suppose I’m just sloppy. And drunk. Hello, Lady Ulva. You know, if you kill me, this entire alliance might fall apart?”
The [Courtesan of Change] bowed to Ulva. She was watching the [Lady] carefully. Ulva just folded her arms.
“Timekeeper, privacy. You. How do you know Petria’s face so well? You could copy her look. But never her mannerisms. Not without more.”
She was angry again. Angier than she had been at the Wall Lord, the [Princess], or anyone else. Ulva had come south to judge and played her role, but this woman…
Xesci tilted her head left and right.
“I can copy anyone I wish to, once I know them well. Even if I haven’t been intimate with them, Lady Ulva. I thought I did Ilvriss well enough.”
“You can breathe Dragonbreath if you change shapes?”
That had seemed incredible to Ulva, but Xesci just nodded.
“[Shapechange: Magical Form]. It’s not as good as having Skills, of course. And flying is so difficult if I haven’t done it in a while. I do apologize, of course, but you were trying to kill Ilvriss.”
Ulva Terland drew closer, and this woman had no scent. No real aura. Nothing. She was truly a mirror of all she chose to be. That was not what unnerved Ulva; she had met Golems capable of much the same. What had her heart beating with actual trepidation was…
“Do not lie to me by omission. If you knew Petria, it cannot have been long. There is only one way for someone with your class to steal a face. Answer me—how did you know her?”
Xesci regarded Ulva in the darkness, absolutely unreadable. Then she spoke.
“You do not appear to be trying to murder me to preserve her reputation. Or as upset as I feared you might be.”
“Do you think I’m some child who hasn’t seen the world?”
“No. But the older you get, the more inflexible your position. Dying truly has helped you.”
Ulva didn’t dignify that with a comment. But Xesci was a dangerous woman to be alone with.
“You were far more rigid in your way—if simply happier, I think—thirteen years ago. I did meet with you six times. Each one a different face. Do you recall a Lady Kinbe Wellfar? Silver-rank Adventurer Melts?”
Ulva stared. Then recoiled.
“I never found her. The adventurer made sense because there are so many, but no Wellfar ever—”
Xesci nodded and smiled ruefully.
“That was me going too far. I was younger. And Petria thought it a grand game. Six times, six different identities. That was all.”
“So—my sister hired your services six times?”
Ulva had known the moment she spoke to Petria’s ghost and woke and thought of what it had meant. But it still felt like a shock. Xesci nodded calmly.
“She found me. I was quite flattered to have the attention of one of the leaders of the Five Families. It got to my head. But yes. She hired my services when I was in First Landing.”
This woman had gone the length and breadth of Izril. Ulva licked her lips and felt nervous again.
“In which…form? No, I already know. She—was a sapphist, then?”
She had no other word besides that or ‘Turnscale’, but it didn’t fit. Xesci didn’t reply.
“I asked you—”
“I don’t give away my clients’ preferences, Lady Ulva. I would normally not even acknowledge the fact, but you two were twin sisters, she is dead, and I think there are extenuating circumstances.”
“I met her ghost. Answer me.”
This time, Xesci did blink.
“Fascinating. You know, I still had my doubts about that particular story Ilvriss told me. But…interesting. It’s all too much of a story for my tastes. Buried Walled Cities, ghosts. What is this, a tale with the Lightning Thief?”
She was one to talk. Ulva hissed at her.
“Just answer me! Petria never told me.”
“No. She was afraid of how you’d react. You two were the Twin Virtues. And you were, oh, a bit more of the traditionalist one. She worried you two would rift and never come back together.”
“She never said that to me!”
Ulva was stung. Ten years younger—and Xesci just smiled.
“It’s easier to tell a stranger than family. And we were intimate. No, I won’t betray her trust. Does it matter?”
“It matters to me. We knew everything about each other!”
The thought that she hadn’t known Petria fully hurt. That her sister had kept…Xesci spoke in the same way she’d cut Ulva before.
“She was finding out who she was. No—she already knew. But she’d been holding it off, fighting desperately to deny it. It was bursting out of her. I was just one of the final dams. I think, if she had lived, she would have begun exploring more.”
She had been taking more time to herself. And when she was so riotous to fight the Goblin King, they’d quarrelled. Growing apart. But Ulva just hissed.
“Did she think that would make us not sisters any longer? Did she think that little of me?”
Now she was furious until Xesci bent down, and her face became Petria’s again. Ulva’s heart jumped, but it beat on. Xesci showed her an uncertain look, Petria biting her lower lip with her teeth—then passed a hand over her face. Like magic trick, it became the Drake’s blanker face again.
“No. She was afraid of your reaction to her being a Turnscale…but also what it might do to you, Ulva. Because you were twins.”
And what one twin was, surely, the other was as well. That struck Ulva. It might have struck the younger Ulva far harder. But Petria was dead, so Ulva just clung to the knowledge. Hungrily. Bitterly.
“I wondered why she never searched for love. I thought we needed none for our own bonds or she just never found anyone worthy—let alone two, because one of us being wed would be so hard.”
“Well. Now you know. Does it change anything?”
Xesci stepped back, and Ulva stood there. She closed her eyes, then turned.
“Yes and no. Go about your night, Xesci the Changer. I will not have you hurt or killed, despite what you did. But I will summon you again to tell me more of the Petria I did not know. My word on a Golem’s heart on it.”
She was walking off, tired. To go and think and remember the Petria she knew and, if she was lucky, dream of a world that no longer was. Xesci watched her go. Then called out.
“Wait a moment.”
Ulva turned, and Xesci approached. She handed Ulva something.
“My card. My current establishment is destroyed or filled with muck, but this is a personal contact card. My rates are on the back, and if you’d like t—”
Ulva tossed the card in Xesci’s face. The [Courtesan] picked it up and handed it to Timekeeper. The Matriarch stomped off before she told the Golem to rub Xesci’s face in a cowpat pile.
Damn Drakes.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had done something amazing out in the Cowpat Plains, which people were all saying needed a rename to make it sound more impressive.
Naamreles’ Folly, perhaps. Or the Cattle Plains? It was a work in progress. But the truth was that something important had gone down, and no one actually knew what it was.
Normally, you just talked about it and then forgot, but the news was captivating multiple cities far from there. After all…there was a magic door close by.
So from Invrisil to Celum, people considered how this might change their lives immediately, and they were excited, asking where that [Recruiter] was—they could do some digging.
As a smug Lady Damia would have told her family and any citizen—you had to be there to be truly part of it. You could still get a piece of the pie, but if you’d been there when you were needed, then you were truly at the heart of a great event.
Not that Lady Damia was in any condition to do anything at the moment. She was so badly hungover that she wasn’t sure she was alive. Soon, she’d be upright and freaking out about her new levels and making plans and getting up to her wacky hijinks.
But at least for now, the many people deserving of levels were slumbering their great efforts off, and their worth was being calculated, calculated…
However, the voice that spoke as two people woke delivered news to them before anyone else.
 
[Reformist Politician Level 30!]
[Class Consolidation: Reformist Politician → Politician of Liscor, the Flooded City!]
[Class Consolidation: Avaricious Shopkeeper Removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Handyman Removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Overly Proud Parent Removed.]
[Politician of Liscor, the Flooded City Level 30!]
 
[Rank 1: Son of Liscor Obtained!]
[Rank Reward: Signet Ring of Liscor Granted!]
 
<(City of Liscor) ranks system enabled. Criteria unassigned, ranks unassigned.>
 
Whereupon followed a bunch of Skills, but he exploded out of his bed. You see, he knew.
“It can’t be.”
Lism rushed to get his clothes on and stumbled out of his front door. It was before dawn, and he knew they were counting the votes. Everyone had tried to stay up, but the truth was that because there were so many new citizens, people had been having trouble counting, and everyone had put up a huge fuss over who got to count what—
In the end, they’d had to have [Mages] casting [Detect Truth] and had to bring in Pallassian and Invrisil mediators. So the count had gone into the night, and everyone had to sleep on it.
And…what was that last part before the Skills? Lism hunted around and found a little ring that had fallen onto the ground when he’d leapt out of bed. He picked it up with trembling claws and saw it had the emblem of his home embossed on it.
He didn’t crow or scream, he just sat there before the city woke up. The rains were stopping. They’d had the impromptu elections just on time. But he was thinking.
“It said something about the rest being ‘unassigned’. Son of Liscor. I wonder, do we have to figure out what that means? What kind of rewards you’d get?”
He stared around Liscor and wondered how big it was, now. Invrisil was surely bigger, and Pallass incomparable. But how many Drakes cities were as big as his?
How big can we get this year? We have so many pressures on us. The other Walled Cities. 
Who else won?
Suddenly, he had to know that because his ebullience faded. If they didn’t have the seats? If some idiots decided to pull back on all this was, wanted to be closeminded, ham-fisted, grab the money from the top instead of spreading it around?
He was afraid, then. Afraid because he saw himself in that mirror, and he’d nearly been ready to fight over making the city better his way then…
This time, it’d be better. Lism charged out the doors and heard the news spreading. Someone was running down the streets, shouting. But he was faster.
The ring. Lism felt the rains pelting at him, lighter, but they slid off his scales. He was as sure-footed in the street as could be, despite the wet cobblestones. Half his neighbors were slipping as they yelled questions at him, but he was running towards City Hall, screaming something over his shoulder.
They were already assembling there, the winners. The losers might still be asleep, but that was the thing.
The voice knew. The adjudicator of levels had told the winners. Lism came to a halt, panting. Counting.
“Is anyone…is…”
He saw enemies, at first. No less than three of them, all standing together, and his heart sank. With our new council of thirteen that’s not a problem if we all won our races, but if more won…
Then he heard a voice and turned. His heart lifted.
“Alonna? Elirr?”
Two of the Councilmembers he’d grown to respect were coming down the street. Elirr was yawning, but nodding at Lism.
“We made it, yes?”
“Ah, I see not every election went as well as we could hope. Councilmembers.”
Nertoyll, the current head of Liscor’s Merchant’s Guild, sneered at the old Council. He couldn’t hide a flicker of dismay.
Alonna and Elirr had been endlessly popular in their races. Of course, the original Council had won, the ones doing their jobs. Lism strode towards them and saw a familiar, tall Gnoll coming from the northeastern streets. He called out.
“Raekea! You made…it…”
It was only because she was wearing a poncho from the rain and he hadn’t seen her in the crowd that he made the mistake, even for a second. Lism stopped.
That wasn’t Raekea. His heart sank into his boots until he saw the figure walking towards him throw back her hood. Then he breathed again.
“Senior Guardswoman Beilmark?”
The Gnoll woman strode into place with Alonna and Elirr and turned to Lism.
“I apologize, yes, Lism, Alonna, Elirr. It was me or Raekea, and we agreed there would be no hard feelings afterwards. She had mostly dropped out of her race and told her followers to vote for me.”
“Wh—but how?”
Lism was confused until he remembered the redrawn districts. They’d changed to make sure each district was equally weighted in terms of population. Beilmark had lived next to Raekea’s district. The new district had pit the two Gnolls against each other. He remembered Beilmark running but he’d put it out of his mind because either way—but he’d thought Raekea…
“What about her class? She knew how to work with us?”
We don’t know you. He tried not to be reproachful. It was Beilmark who stood straighter and spoke, a hint reprovingly.
“I ran for Jeiss. We have to have one member of the Watch on the Council. Raekea and I talked it out. She has good prospects with Pelt’s blacksmithing. She had to choose between her classes. [Councilwoman] or [Armorer]. She told me to give my best shot, and if I hated it, she’d run in the next election.”
Lism remembered how the last Council election had seen some underhandedness that meant Jeiss had won when it could have been Beilmark. At the time, the two Senior Guard partners had suffered a rift because of it.
Now? Beilmark was here. There was some poetry to it. Lism swallowed any comments he might have had and held out a claw.
“Of course, Councilwoman. Forgive me. I’m delighted to have you with us.”
She smiled at him and took his claw. No hard feelings, he hoped. He’d make it up to her, and when Alonna and Elirr greeted Beilmark, it was with a hug from both. The traditionalists had to nod at Beilmark grudgingly. Everyone knew the Senior Guardswoman, but when she stood with Lism, Alonna, and Elirr, Beilmark made it clear whose side she was on.
That made the numbers three and four, but there were thirteen seats up for grabs. Lism turned, worried.
“Where’s Krshia?”
She had to be running all the way from her home on the east side, of course. Alonna was eying the new Council, and another person stepped onto their side. A Gnoll.
Four and four. Equal numbers between Lism’s side and theirs. Then another—Lism’s heart sank.
Five and four. Not that all of them were united, but he knew four were old Council, old-Liscor traditionalists. Then came an independent candidate, the first to not belong to either side.
Guildmaster Okr. Head of the Mason’s Guild—the Gnoll who’d been building great parts of the city. He’d swept his race, then. He hadn’t tied himself to Lism’s Council, but he was a Gnoll.
Then again, there was at least one Gnoll among the ‘traditionalists’. Traitor. But Okr might…Lism’s head was buzzing. He just turned his head as Beilmark and Elirr congratulated Okr. Krshia. So long as they had her…
Another Human walked forwards. A man that Lism knew, but he’d been so caught up in his own fight that he’d forgotten—
Timbor Parithad, the owner of the Drunken Gnoll, had food in a basket, and he shared it around, smiling. He shook everyone’s hand, and Lism thought—The Wandering Inn. An ally?
He couldn’t read Timbor, but maybe—
It was five, two, and four, now. The traditionalists weren’t as happy as they were pretending to be. But if they got the others, then Lism’s progressive Council would be stalemated.
But the last two candidates…a Drake walked down the street as Lism stood on his tiptoes.
“I’ll go see Krshia. They might be not letting her get to us.”
“Lism—”
He could just imagine the Gnolls throwing a party in the streets. Howling. But Alonna just pointed, and he turned.
‘Mama’ Vala, the Drake who’d challenged Krshia for her district, stepped into line with the traditionalists. She was smiling so broadly he didn’t get it.
Why was she here? Krshia—Krshia was definitely coming. It was all a mistake.
“I’m the one who got her into this mess. She’s the Gnoll who fought at the Meeting of Tribes. The one who took Silverfangs here in the first place. If anyone should have won—”
Elirr was staring past Lism, and Beilmark was glaring at the old traditionalists celebrating loudly. Timbor simply stood there, munching on a breakfast sandwich. Then the final Councilmember of new Liscor arrived.
He parted the crowd gathering for the council gently. And the rain falling on them stopped. It ceased on the street he walked, across the city. He leaned on the staff he carried, and he did not smile. Not fully. It seemed as though a familiar and great weight was placed upon his shoulders, but one he had wanted.
Lord Mireden Raithland made the traditionalists stop celebrating. They stared up at him, and he raised one hand.
“Greetings, all. I apologize for my late arrival. I went to speak to the former Councilmember, Krshia Silverfang. I regret she is not part of this Council. But I have every faith that she will rise higher without us to hold her back.”
His voice was loud, carrying, and Lism just stared at him. It wasn’t fair. He felt that. It wasn’t fair. He’d gotten away with it, won by bluster and talk, and the woman who really belonged here…
Mireden’s eyes met his, and he nodded, calm. As if to say this is how it is. Then he focused on the current Council.
“I—good morning. Well then, shall we get started? Much to do, and I think we have plenty to discuss.”
Nertoyll was counting the Council seats. He clearly put Mireden with the independents and seemed to think he had a chance. Certainly, this Council was no longer an easy majority. Lism just trailed into the building, for once without words. He almost turned back.
“Get started without me. I’ll—I need to talk to her.”
Beilmark caught his arm.
“Give her a moment, Lism.”
“But I have to apologize.”
He pulled, and she hesitated, but before Lism could turn away—he felt so empty. Like this victory had all turned to ash. He’d trade his new class, the ring, to rewind time to a week ago. But then…
“Ah, Councilmembers. Good morning to you. I apologize, but we did not know when you would be up.”
Lism…paused. Someone was in the City Hall. Well, of course. The staff worked when the bigwigs slept. But someone other than the staff was here. Waiting before the stairs leading up to the council room.
“Who—what are th—what is the meaning of this?”
The traditionalists had come to a stop. The new Councilmembers had halted too, with mixes of alarm, curiosity, and, in Timbor’s case, sudden interest. It was only Lord Mireden who smiled.
Lism turned and blinked. For there, standing in front of him, were a pair of…
“Garry? Silveran?”
The two Antinium nodded at him, and it was Silveran, or rather, Silverstache who spoke.
“I reckon it’s mighty impolite to be here, but I thought it’d be good t’have some words. If we might address the Council?”
“This is all highly irregular. It’s our first day, and we will hear all citizens, of course, but—”
Councilmember Vala was standing behind the others, visibly distressed at the sight of Antinium. Especially these two.
Garry was brolic, but even Silverstache appeared…different. He’d levelled up in confidence, in authority, and indeed, even his accent. They no longer looked like ordinary Antinium, and Silverstache took off a hat.
“Pardon me, ma’am—and excuse my injuries. Terrible accident of racism on the streets. ‘Spart of why we wanted to talk to you, you see.”
His head was all bandaged up. The Council all stared, and Lism began to feel something. Just like last time—he cast around for Krshia. But then Garry spoke.
“At your earliest convenience will do, Councilmembers. It is a matter of importance, however, and I regret I cannot open my bakery until we meet, so the sooner the better.”
“The same for Silveran’s Cleaners.”
The two highly important, highly popular Antinium-led businesses…Lism stepped forwards.
“Naturally, the Council will hear you.”
“You’re not in charge, Lism!”
Nertoyll blazed at Lism instantly, but Lism just held up his claws.
“Oh, we’ll have to vote on that, of course, but we couldn’t hold up both businesses, surely? On what grounds are you asking for an audience, Cleaner Silverstache? Baker Garry? As individuals—there are plenty of petitions.”
All by the books. But Baker Garry just smiled in a way the Walled Cities had learned to fear.
“Ah, I see the misapprehension. We are not here as individuals, Councilmembers. Rather, Silveran and I are petitioning the Council as two members of our Guilds. Silveran is, of course, the Guildmaster of the Cleaner’s Guild.”
A pause. And Lism’s heart leapt. One of the traditionalists spoke slowly.
“We don’t…have a Cleaner’s Guild.”
“You did not. But the paperwork was filled in, and enough representatives filed paperwork. You must have not paid attention. I myself, of course, am now Guildmaster of the Baker’s Guild. I won the election last night.”
Baker Garry cheerfully tipped his hat at them. Silverstache went on.
“That’s right. So we’re here on behalf of some other Guilds. Driver’s Guild. Butcher’s Guild—you can ask them, but we’re friendly with several. We’d like to talk about any laws you were all thinkin’ of passing. Just to put in our voices.”
“And if we chose to pass laws that go against your very respectful voices?”
That came from Lord Mireden, who leaned on his staff, smiling into his beard. Garry scratched his head.
“I am sure this Council will do as it must. We simply represent a good number of workers who will have to decide what we will do in response to any laws the Council passes. You are our elected representatives. And we are those who bake, clean, or perform other services for the city. Thank you for hearing us out. I have some breakfast scones and coffee if you would like to partake.”
The Council peered at each other, and the Antinium gestured to the stairs. And Lism felt it. He began to walk upstairs after Timbor as the man moved first. Mireden was next.
“I believe we should table discussion of any citywide ordinances until after we hear our unions—I mean, Guilds—out. I would also like to request a meeting to discuss a system of ranks.”
Lism’s head swung around, and Lord Mireden smiled at the suspicious looks the other Councilmembers gave him. His eye found Lism, Beilmark, and a few others like Okr and even Timbor, who twitched, and he murmured into his beard.
“…With appropriate parties.”
“You know what that was?”
“Indeed, I do. We are premature in this lifetime, but call it a gift from my home. I’m glad; I have earned it. We have.”
So saying, Mireden strode up the steps, and Lism was presented with another mystery he tied to The Wandering Inn, and he recalled those words. What might they do? Did they have to give rewards? Could they? Or would they just decide and let the voice of levels itself…?
Wondrous. Momentous. He saw that chance again, that opportunity waiting for him like the most lucrative of sales, as the Council headed upwards. But Lism kept glancing over his shoulder.
Krshia…
So his city changed. For the better, but today? Lism knew one thing he regretted losing.
 
——
 
Krshia Silverfang sat on her bed as word spread. The new Council was in. Things would be different. But for a moment, she wiped at her face.
Her fur was wet. She cried for a bit, because it hurt.
Her class was gone. Changed back to [Royal Shopkeeper]. Her position was gone, too. Everything she’d worked for—
No, not everything.
But it felt like coming back to her burnt-down stall.
“What now? What do I do now?”
She didn’t know. She only knew she was tired and the worst had happened. So she cried until someone knocked at her door. It was one of her neighbors and the Silverfangs. And then Krshia realized someone was calling her, and when she answered the scrying orb, her sister was there. So Krshia smiled, cried, and hugged people.
Tomorrow, she’d search for a vision of the future. Today, she mourned what might have been.
 
 
——
 
It was all going to change. Again.
But this time, actually change. One didn’t dig up a Walled City without consequences. People loved to talk about ‘new eras’. The King of Destruction had been…
No, he had been serious. But it had been stupid to call him a change in the world. His empire had collapsed with his will.
This was the true marker of an era. No one man, but an inevitability. The Gnolls were right, as always.
The new era was coming like a wave, and nothing in this world could stop it. It would sweep across nations and leave the world different forever.
It was a terrible, horrifying thing. But if there were anything that gave Karsaeu-Dequoa hope, it was that. She did not hope after so long. Her chains were part of her being.
But in a new era, the current of change might rip asunder even established powers and grant her, if not freedom, then respite.
That was all. She finished reporting to her master on all she had seen. He was an unhappy man. Mostly because his Assassin’s Guild was being hunted and he’d been bested in some way. She had no love for the Circle of Thorns, or even his competitors. If anything, him suffering hurt her; she had to drive more passengers and his [Assassins] across Izril.
Work harder. At the same time, she didn’t wish for his success.
That was what it was to be a slave. So yes, she acknowledged the changing era, but wished for it, like someone called for the meteor from the heavens. Let it all burn.
She cared little for the Wall Lord’s alliance with House Terland. House Terland held a different kind of slave, and their suffering was as long as Djinnis, if different.
The driver of the Unmarked Coach lit a pipe made of her own essence. In it, she smoked some dirt and grass and cowpat manure since she was too poor to even afford the smallest amount of tobacco. What was foul to other people was just another kind of air to her. Smoke.
It kept people from being too interested in her if she smelled of it, anyways. She gazed at the old city she reckoned she remembered. A tired being who hadn’t really been part of it. Just the driver.
Then her head snapped up. And she turned. A man was walking towards her.
“Hey, you! Woman!”
Lord Gorthes Reinhart was still drunk and flushed on his own heroics. His surviving bodyguards and servants, a mix of bullies and lickspittles, followed him. He was a huge man and jerked a thumb at his chest.
Karsaeu didn’t answer. Lord Gorthes approached.
“Your damn carriage ran mine off the road. No one gets in my way. I am Lord Gorthes Reinhart. I heard you’re some famous [Driver] I don’t know about. Popped up while I was off the road, eh? Well, well, well.”
He sauntered closer with some of his bodyguards. Karsaeu flicked some ash out of her pipe. She ignored him as some Silverfang Gnolls who’d camped close to the coach poked their heads out of their yurts. They looked around, thinking to stop the impending trouble. But Lord Gorthes just strode over.
“Not gonna run? Good. Let’s get this over with.”
He put a hand on her shoulder.
Karsaeu smiled.
 
——
 
After a while, one of the Silverfang Gnolls ran to get someone in charge. The rest just watched. So did Lord Gorthes’ staff.
Well, the servants. Not the [Bodyguards]. They’d all tried to swing on Karsaeu or pull her off Lord Gorthes, so they’d been included in her self-defense clauses.
The servants of House Reinhart were used to incredible violence. Even so—one of them was wincing each time there was a thump.
That was Karsaeu slamming Lord Gorthes’ head into the side of her carriage. She eventually seemed to get bored, because she picked him up, threw him twelve feet, and got in her coach and drove off.
She aimed a glob of spit and hit one of the [Bodyguards] in the head. Only when she was a speck in the distance did the servants rush over with a healing scroll.
“Lord Gorthes. Lord Gorthes—”
He required a healing scroll from the Antinium, half of a real healing potion, and five slaps to get him to open his eyes. He wasn’t dead because Karsaeu wasn’t an idiot and she had restrictions on killing nobles. But he woke up and promptly told them to knock him out and get a [Healer].
A very confused Gnoll [Healer] had to rouse himself and treat the [Lord]. ‘Testicular torsion’ was not an ailment the Gnoll had ever had to deal with before.
Only when Gorthes had stopped crying out for death did he lay there on the ground, sweat, dirt, and blood covering his face, and rasped.
“Servant.”
One of them approached, out of range of a punch or kick, though Lord Gorthes didn’t seem capable of much at the moment.
“Sir?”
“Find out…who that was. Got it? Careful. No one speaks of this or I’ll kill them. Pay them Silverfangs off. Then find out if she likes flowers or some shit.”
“…Milord?”
Lord Gorthes stared up at the sky.
“If you can’t kill ‘em, marry ‘em. Now, I’m gonna sleep.”
He passed out, and at least—
Well.
At least he got to level. Almost everyone did.
 
——
 
[Class Change: Master Plumber → Master Plumber of Distant Stacks!]
[Master Plumber of Distant Stacks Level 40!]
[Skill – Personal Sewage Network (Residential) Obtained!]
[Skill – Personal Sewage Network: Service Line (Ceramic) Obtained!]
[Skill – Explosive Venting Obtained!]
[Skill – Heavily Reinforced Pipes Obtained!]
[Skill – Impressive Dodge Obtained!]
 
[Rank 1: Son of Salazsar Obtained!]
[Rank Reward – Medal of Bravery (Salazsar) Granted!]
 
[Rank 2: Son of Salazsar Obtained!]
[Skill – Free Upgrade (Plumbing) Obtained!]
 
[Advance Miner Level 39!]
[Skill – Thunderous Impact Obtained!]
[Skill – Take Cover, Idiots Obtained!]
[Skill – Treasuresense Obtained!]
 
[Rank 1: Son of Salazsar Obtained!]
[Reward – Grade 5 Civilian-Contractor Unlimited Travel Security Pre-Cleared Passport Granted!]
 
[Fangirl Level 8!]
[Skill – Braggarty: I Was There Obtained!]
[Bound Spell: – Magic Picture (Daily) Obtained!]
 
[Sharp Dame Level 18!]
[Skill – Lucky Charge Obtained!]
[Skill – Wild Flailing Learned!]
[Skill – Aleieta’s Melded Perspective Obtained!]
 
[Courtesan of the Reflected Façades Level 51!]
[Skill – Copy Low-Level Skill Obtained!]
 
[Queen of Intrigue and Contracts Level 46!]
[Skill – Squad: Elite Operative Agents Obtained!]
[Skill – Imperial Aura: True Manipulation Obtained!]
 
[Class Change: Bereaved Matriarch of House Terland  → Remaining Virtue of Terland’s Hearts!]
[Remaining Virtue of Terland’s Hearts Level 55!]
[Skill – Sing, Hearts of Stone (Petria’s) Obtained!]
[Combined Skill – The Orchestra of Stone’s Voices Re-obtained!]
 
[Class Change: Chief Diplomat of Bijou Splendor → Expatriate Conciliator on Assignment to Forgotten Peoples]
[Expatriate Conciliator on Assignment to Forgotten Peoples Level 50!]
[Skill Change: Persuasion of the Heart of Opulence → The Man Who Grants Wishes Obtained!]
[Skill – Overrule Authority Obtained!]
[Skill – I Keep My Promises (Nerul Gemscale) Obtained!]
[Skill – Per Procura (Walled Cities) Obtained!]
 
[Rank 1: Son of Salazs—]
[Rank Up cancelled.]
 
[Class Change: Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity → Lord of Thunderous Hearts!]
[Class Consolidation: Runner Class Removed!]
[Lord of Thunderous Hearts Level 50!]
[Skill – Awaken, Hearts of Stone Obtained!]
[Condition – Heart: Heroic Lionheart Obtained!]
[Skill – Unstoppable Run Obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Speed (Golems) Obtained!]
[Skill – Mass Restore Stamina Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Revive Golems (Autonomous) → Revive Golems (Autonomous, Weekly) Obtained!]
 
[Class Change: Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence → Inheritor of the Lost Walled Cities!]
[Inheritor of the Lost Walled Cities Level 43!]
[Skill – Locate My People’s Legacies Obtained!]
[Legacy: Lay Our Sins and Glories in Open Air Obtained!]
[Legacy Skill – Gift of the Reclaimer (Walled Cities) Obtained!]
[Skill – Sword Art: Diamond Cleaver Obtained!]
[Skill – The Sky is Falling, Advance (Tier 3 Magic) Obtained!]
[Skill – Bond of Species (Humans, Gnolls) Obtained!]
 
[Rank 6: Wall Lord of the 6th Rank Obtained!]
[Rank Reward: Original Ring of Salazsar (House of Gem’s Scales) Granted!]
 
——
 
Consequences. They could be endless, but in the end, a Walled City had been uncovered. When you really thought about it, wasn’t this the best outcome?
Terlands and Salazsar working hand-in-hand. An amazing feat of diplomacy, really. Only the united threat of a certain handsome half-Elf and the Walled City of Purity had allowed them to put aside their stupid differences and come together.
If you really considered it, put your pink matter to the test, then you had to conclude that the outcomes of this particular disaster were, in fact, the work of a genius.
Such a genius that he hadn’t even known what he was doing. And here Tolveilouka had been down on himself.
“I’ve just gotten out of touch, that’s all. But it was clear it was all instinct. You play your enemies against each other once, you can do it in your sleep. It’s like riding a horse or something.”
He patted himself on the back. With someone else’s hand. It was a bit floppy, and when he took a bite, Tolveilouka recoiled.
“Ugh, it’s filled with poison.”
He chewed, then hesitated.
“Now hold on…actually, that’s pretty unique. Let me try another bite. Mm. You know what? I’m sold. Where’s the rest of him? Her?”
He hunted around, but the pile of limbs wasn’t exactly easy to mix and match in the dark. Sighing, Tolveilouka decided to savor what he had.
Small things. He’d been really stressed of late, but he’d done it. Erin would have to get on her hands and knees and admit that this time, her best servant—er, reluctant ally—had come through. He hoped she’d be impressed, not that he needed her approval.
It was just nice to have validation. Tolveilouka nearly told the observers that before he remembered.
“Secrecy. Right.”
He kept eating, tearing pieces of meat off the arm of the dead [Assassin]. He wasn’t sure how many that made.
“Was it three waves or four? I never count how many mooks I have to kill. Mooks. What a word. Someone called me that once. Exceptionally hurtful. But then, he was a Giant. Two punches and I was out. That’s real monstrosity. This City of Purity—heh. That little outpouring was nothing compared to what it used to do. Ever seen it ‘purify’ lesser cities?”
He shook his head. You start firing Tier 8 spells like that and you run out of allies real quick. But you had to be super unlikable for everyone to call a truce with the Putrid One to destroy you.
He finished eating and licked his fingers. The group of silent [Assassins]—emissaries, really—shifted.
He suspected they really didn’t want to die. But, presumably, they had orders. It was only on, like, the fifth wave when even mind-controlled servants started breaking orders.
Happily for them, he was in a good mood. Tolveilouka stretched.
“So who’re you and why shouldn’t I kill you like the last…sixty idiots?”
A pause. Then a figure leapt forwards and landed, soft as a feather, in front of him. A masked figure with very [Assassin]-like gear. Tolveilouka approved, even if the all-black cloth wraps made them stick out more in the dark.
“We are the True Assassin’s Guild of Izril. Our Guildmaster, not the false fool, has sent us t—”
Tolveilouka kicked the [Assassin] and grimaced.
“Eugh. My sandal went through everything. I thought you lot were sturdier than—”
He found a piece of cloth and wiped his foot off. Then sat back on the pile of bodies.
“Okay, try again. Waste my time and I’ll kill you all, hunt down whomever sent you, and…”
He snapped his fingers.
“…something else.”
He wasn’t giving them his best material here. He was tired. Triumphant. But Tolveilouka humored them as the next of the Ranks landed and spoke.
“The Circle of Thorns has noticed you, Tolveilouka. They wish to offer you—”
Snap.
A few of the figures flinched. They didn’t move as an order was given. It was repeated, and still none of them moved.
One of the Ranks’ heads exploded. Still, none of the [Assassins] moved. At last, one of the figures hanging well back moved forwards. He was a Face.
He watched Tolveilouka yawning, and the half-Elf beckoned him forwards.
“Ugh, don’t you have someone who’s actually a real [Assassin]?”
The Face…decided not to clarify his rank. He spoke swiftly.
“The error that time was…”
“My name. And deference.”
Tolveilouka inspected his fingernails, and the Face spoke quickly.
“Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer—”
“Thank you. See, that’s all I ask for!”
The half-Elf sighed. He was on his feet in the blink of an eye and had the Face’s head in his hand. He drew the Face closer.
“Now…what does this worthless organization want, and why shouldn’t I kill them?”
The Face spoke faster.
“They would like to employ your limitless powers, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. Surely, the Putrid One’s greatest servant has no need for mere gold. However, the Circle would gladly pay any outstanding debts and give you all that you are worthy of—”
“Less flattery.”
“—To eliminate their enemies and complete certain tasks?”
Tolveilouka hmmed. He let go of the Face, put his hands together, and turned away.
“Debts. It’s true, I am perfect. But I do have a few…annoyances. I suppose this group picked up on that. So long as that damn woman’s shackling me—fine. Some gnats are trying to disrupt my master’s resting spot. Make sure they stop.”
“It shall be done. If you have any other desires—”
“Mm. No, no. Just gold. Pay me appropriately and tell me what you lot want. I shall consider it, and if I don’t like what I hear, I’ll just murder you all. Good? Splendid.”
Tolveilouka waved them off, then made a show of beckoning one back after catching them.
“One question. This Circle of Thorns. Is it…allied to that…[Princess]? This Wall Lord?”
His face twisted ominously, and when he was assured they were not, he smiled. Let them go after patting the [Assassins] on the head. Tolveilouka stood there a second, then made a point of staring up at the camouflaged [Scrying] spell they’d put on him and cut it in half.
He leapt away and went running across Izril. Even when he was sure he’d lost any tails, magical or otherwise, he just ran.
Calm. Collected. Elegant even.
Somewhere, Tolveilouka was sure, this Circle of Thorns were popping drinks and tugging each other off under the table about acquiring the services of a being beyond any they had ever met. Obviously, they’d treat him as a dangerous, unpredictable asset they might have to deal with—but a weapon they could turn against their enemies.
That was obvious. Every organization thought they were the first to invent the old double-cross. What they didn’t know, and what would have really concerned them, was that inside Tolveilouka’s mind palace, he was pouring himself a bath of celebratory drinks.
The good stuff that foamed. The half-Elf hummed as he ran, an old, merry dirge.
My, my, my. The Circle of Thorns, you say? Why, the same organization that seemed to hate Erin Solstice and allies of her inn?
My, my. I wonder where they’re hiding and what they want. I’m glad they hired good old Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, yes sah. I’ll be so helpful they’ll let me into their confidences, like plague into a city of millions. And I’ll incubate there—and let them pay off my debts. Yessir, what a pleasant outcome for all.
They’ve never, ever, had an ally like me.
And people thought he wasn’t clever.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
That was a lot of levels.
Okay, okay, that was a lot of CHAPTER. And I have been working nonstop to get this one to you on Tuesday, as promised! Now I rest until the 8th!
I will be travelling to sign the bookplates, so I do need more time off, actually. Remember, the physical book incentive campaign ends, and so do any rewards, in August! But that also means I have to prep some of the rewards, hence me wanting to get this chapter out to elongate my break.
…Well, also I didn’t want to keep you hanging. I hope you enjoyed this long arc! Do you like having it all done like this?
Again, I’m looking for feedback. A few anecdotal comments say people prefer this, and if I could break this up with interludes, maybe it works? It takes a while because I hit so many arcs—like we did Liscor’s entire election arc in the background here, which I don’t think was the worst.
Only so much of that I can make entertaining. Please let me know, but I hope you found Ilvriss’ big glow up (literally shine a light on him now and be prepared for a discoball) rewarding.
He’s changed so much from the haughty guy we met, but that’s the point of a good story. Change. I say it again and again, but that’s what I love about writing.
Now, I will prepare the chapters I owe, like Rickel (and Oelnnox, I’m working on something special for that), in the background, but I regard the Horns as the next big arc thanks to the vote. I can’t believe Erin lost, but I guess that’s how it goes, and I am glad I’m being incentivized to work on these arcs. I like them all—well, mostly all of them.
Thank you for reading and please clap. I’m tired.
—pirateaba

10.72 H (2026-08-08)

(I am doing an AMA on r/Fantasy on August 13th at 4 PM EST! If you’ve got a question, now’s the time to ask! —pirateaba)
 
 
 
 
It sounded a bit like music without the actual music. No instrumentation, no lyrics that made sense, but a rhythm like one. And it was growing louder the more you listened to them. A pernicious and, yes, discordant sound.
But still. The world’s greatest living [Bard] sipped from some tea as he sat in the window of his room, overlooking the famous palace built on the bones of the Immortal Tyrant. He sighed.
It sounded like this:
“Horns of Hammerad! St—argh!”
The furious [Librarian] made it two feet outside the royal library, ran over the ice on the floor, and went sprawling. A laughing half-Elf with frozen skin and eyes filled with frost ran, high-kneeing it across the hallway.
“Pisces, Yvlon, Colth, run!”
The rest of the Horns of Hammerad were reading books by one of the inner courtyard railings, over a garden where some of the palace’s [Dancers] were training. At least one of the Horns, Pisces, was having trouble concentrating on his book.
At Ceria’s words, all of the adventurers peered up. They saw her sprinting, stuffing books into her bag of holding, and started running.
Colth had already begun, and Yvlon started sprinting the same direction on pure instinct. Ceria skated past them as Elena jumped and nearly dropped her book; Delitandra leaned over the balcony and snagged it out of the air in an amazing display of athleticism.
“What did you do this time?”
Yvlon made a fist to hit Ceria, but the half-Elf [Cryomancer] was just laughing.
“I looted some books from the royal library! You can’t hit me! You’re still in trouble for the Coliseum of Monarchs!”
That was true. Yvlon hesitated, calculated burglarizing the royal library against killing the Champion of Monarchs and breaking into the coliseum—and trying to murder a [Prince]—and lowered her fist. She pumped her arms and ran harder. Colth was rolling his eyes.
“What’s so valuable that you have to steal it?”
“Er, a royal book? Turns out it’s part of the royal library only it’s disguised with magic. I saw it and—”
“You stole one of Yisame’s secret books? Those are warplans, designs for siege weapons, maps of treasure—royal histories and genealogies—”
Colth began screaming. He activated a Skill, and they ran faster. Yvlon bit her lip. That was actually pretty funny given Yisame’s secret class. Ceria was beaming.
“I just need fifteen minutes to copy it as fast as I can read! Then we pretend to give up—”
“Your circlet can memorize that fast? I can scribe—”
“Nono, they’ll murder us for having a piece. But if I memorize it then do this mental gating—”
“Aha. This way! We can probably—”
“Horns of Hammeraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad!”
That was the rather impressive voice of the [Royal Librarian], who screamed, purple-faced, after the fleeing trio of adventurers. The [Trickster of Crowns] turned and blew a kiss as she slid down the hallway.
Servants, royal dignitaries, everyone leapt aside, staring at that team whose name had captivated even the greatest nation of Chandrar. At first, people had assumed they were temporary. Transient chumps who’d occupy attention for a day, a week at most. Gold-rankers who had nothing more behind them than the ability to kill an Adult Creler.
Recent events and the dead Champion of Monarchs begged to differ. There they were, each one outstanding in some way. Even the team’s makeup was fascinating to just hear about.
A mysterious ‘Satyr’ whose species was so old that there were only references to her kind in the history books. Vofea the Rookie.
The first Antinium to ever become an adventurer, famous friend of multiple rulers of nations. Subject of the bestselling documentary and inventor of at least one viral dance move. Friend of cats and Golems. Ksmvr of Chandrar.
The skating half-Elf with, it was rumored, a cursed artifact. Prodigy of Wistram, master of ice-magic, and thief of at least one crown. A [Cryomancer] and [Trickster] who was currently levelling at least one of her classes. Captain Ceria Springwalker, the Ice Squirrel.
The Named-ranker from Izril, infamous for being the one and only [Supporter] to ever make his class into a powerhouse. Famous for associating with the old legends of Izril. The man who could do it all except, perhaps, find love. Colth the Eternal Virgin. (Or Colthei the Ultimate Supporter, but one was certainly more memorable.)
Then there was the most famous woman of all at the moment. The unstoppable force behind the Horns of Hammerad. Feared by anything she laid eyes on. The crimson slaughterer who had littered Chandrar’s sands with more blood than any [Serial Killer]. The woman who was now the unofficial champion of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the [Gladiator], the Silver Killer, Yvlon Byres.
And last, but certainly not least, the man who was currently invisible, no doubt. Another prodigy of Wistram, but also a master of dueling. At least a Silver-belled duelist—but a [Necromancer]. More presciently, a man who had damned over a hundred [Slavers] with his bare hands, and who had led a slaughter across the eastern regions of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Chandrar. The highest-levelled [Necromancer] serving as an adventurer. The Scourge of Roshal, Pisces the Bane.
“…Wait, where’s Pisces?”
Yvlon turned her head after a second, and Colth squinted around.
“Invisible, probably. Did that idiot go the wrong way or trip?”
The three fleeing adventurers looked around, half-expecting to see a passed-out [Necromancer] who’d collided headfirst with a wall. Or who’d [Flash Stepped] into a compromising position with some attractive Stitch-person.
Equally likely, knowing Pisces. But Ceria, who could see invisibility with ease, didn’t spot Pisces. Colth frowned, then his head whipped around, and he did a full turn. He slowed, and Ceria windmilled her arms as Yvlon skidded to a halt.
That really inconvenienced the palace guards, who had begun running after the book-thieves. But, conscious of the Silver Killer, they’d been doing that run of men and women who didn’t want to catch anyone. So they had to transit to a jog that looked fast until you realized they were virtually running in place.
The Horns ignored the guards and staring people, already pointing and whispering and sending rumors out of the palace. Pisces was not lying on the floor or buried headfirst in a [Lady]’s blouse. He was, in fact, kneeling on the hallway floors.
Over two hundred feet distant, his white robes pooling around a bunch of icewater rapidly warming. He was helping an old Stitch-man to his feet, and the confused and possibly concussed [Royal Librarian] was blinking at him. Elena and the Heromakers of Hraace were standing there, glancing between the three fleeing adventurers and—
“What’s that idiot doing?”
Ceria began, and Colth opened his mouth. Well, helping an old man that had fallen on the floor. Yvlon realized, after a second, that the Stitch-man did have white hair. His dusky face was screwed up in pain, and the [Armsmistress] turned her head.
“It looks like he might have broken something.”
“Wh—c’mon, he’s a Stitch-man. Do their bones all get weaker when they get old, even if the cloth is good? I had to lose him or he’d start using [Librarian] Skills on me!”
Ceria spread her hands out innocently. She didn’t look guilty—until she lifted her circlet off her head. Then she eyed the old man, hesitated—plopped the circlet back down.
“He can stitch himself back up, no problem. C’mon, back me up. Guys?”
Yvlon and Colth hesitated. Colth muttered at Yvlon.
“We won’t get a second chance. Might as well. I’ll help transcribe.”
He turned to rush off, and Yvlon nodded.
“Fine, I’ll hold the pursuers off.”
She strode at the [Palace Guard], who saw the Silver Killer walking at them. Smiling. Their pursuit-jogging managed to carry them backwards at commendable speed. Ceria hesitated, slowing as she and Colthei slid.
“Wait, Yvlon, you don’t need to murderize them—”
Yvlon turned to call back to Ceria.
“I’m just going to Knight a bit. [Gladiator] stuff. Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres. Some call me—”
The [Palace Guards] all ran away.
“The thieves are getting away! Avoid the Silver Killer!”
They sprinted for other corridors, and then Ceria and Colth vanished. Yvlon was left standing in the rapidly-emptying corridor ahead of her as people leapt out of the Silver Killer’s next bloodbath. She opened her mouth, then saw Pisces turning and realizing his team had run for it. He saw her standing there and blinked.
And there it was.
Barelle the Bard, watching the entire drama from his window, strummed on his harp. It sounded like it. A song, of a kind he could capture. Maybe even a song worth playing, despite his objections.
The melody was in the capital. Spreading across Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and it could grow. It sounded like fame. But it was also discordant. Four strings, each one playing a different note.
“Adventurers.”
Barelle the Bard sighed. Since he had nothing else to do, he grudgingly reached into his bag of holding with one foot. With remarkable dexterity, he kept playing on his harp and produced a magic quill with his toes. He flipped over a journal and began to write as he played.
Just in case.
 
——
 
When the Silver Killer strode into the Court of Silks, they saw someone who could make even the Court of Steel think twice. Just one woman in a nation of countless millions. But would you want to be the one confronting her?
That was the secret. Each noble present, the many royals from the countless houses, noble ladies, powerful individuals who held positions in Tyrant’s Rest—all of them could call on armies of servants and subordinates.
But when Yvlon Byres stood in front of you, the line of bodyguards looked like naught but cheap cloth before the hands that had broken the Coliseum of Monarch’s barriers.
Let alone the Bane of Roshal. Or the Ice Squirrel, who, one must remind themselves, murdered the Champion of Monarchs in coldest blood. Cold as her veins. The woman who double crossed the Siren of Savere—
Colthei the Supporter was, obviously, the gentle, good-natured adventurer trying to hold it all together and the weakest link. But even he was a Named-ranker of some finesse and actual quality. So the Horns were now a force in the Court of Silks, one in service to Queen Yisame.
How it made Yisame’s blood thrill. She was a bit sleep-deprived because she kept spending all night writing fanfiction about her beloved Horns, arguing in the new Wistram chatrooms about what they’d do next, or watching replays of their exploits.
In her kingdom, as her friends. What might they do next? Well…the incident with the [Royal Librarian] that morning had caused little genuine outrage, in fact.
Few of the Court of Silks respected him or his insistence they return books and pay for damages or misplaced books. The Stitch-folk nobility had some penchant for reading; being held to account, none at all.
Yisame, in fact, was the most troubled one because she cared for the old man, Dulstovie, who had gotten her into many a good series, but apparently, he’d forgiven at least some of the Horns. Ceria Springwalker had returned her books after merely fourteen minutes, which was not enough time to steal much of anything, and she had made no copies. The [Royal Librarian] had merely banned her from the libraries until Zeikhal turned green.
Pisces Jealnet and Yvlon Byres had been allowed to stay and were, in fact, reading books in the Court of Silks as Ceria prostrated herself before Yisame. One must apologize—but she did it like the [Trickster] she was.
“I grovel before you and apologize, Queen Yisame! Please spare me and my team!”
She stretched out on the ground, twisting about much like a cat, grinning, and the [Queen] herself suppressed a giggle as the Court of Silks laughed. Her Voice, taking her role seriously, was far more displeased.
“Your levity is noted, Adventurer Ceria. That Librarian Dulstovie was not injured beyond repair to his cloth is well for your sake. Your petition to access the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes may well hang on future conduct.”
That drew Ceria up, and she sat crosslegged, then bowed.
“Your Majesty, I apologize twice, then, for Yvlon Byres’ recent conduct and my indiscretions! Surely, I may win your favor again? Perhaps if I offered my team’s services for any task worthy of Her Majesty’s good graces?”
Ah, she played the game well enough. Yisame smiled and wondered if Colthei had come up with this; she hadn’t even consulted with them. She flicked a few fingers in code, and the Voice spoke.
“This may serve. What serves Nerrhavia’s Fallen serves our humors. We shall find a task worthy of the Horns of Hammerad.”
It took some of the Court of Silks a second to catch on. Then there was a ripple of unease.
Cleverly, Ceria had positioned herself into doing Yisame a favor of obligation. Which then let Yisame assign the Horns a task of valor, perhaps even an ‘unpleasant’ one. It was rare for the crown to task adventurers with any obligations personally; these were menial matters in the jurisdiction of multiple court advisors, which they guarded zealously.
The power to command and pay for adventurers was the purview of the Counsellor of Arms, who held adventurer and mercenary contracts. Or perhaps the Chancellor of Coin, who could require their services for specific contracts. The Great General of any region might use them. Or the local [Magistrate]. Or the Seneschal of Public Order—a very powerful woman at the moment given the Plague of Oresects and the unrest with the wars.
These acted as checks on the crown’s power. However, Yisame now had a team whose loyalty was not in doubt, who could act on her interests—and who were dangerous indeed. She had a few use-cases she could think of…
The [Queen] smiled and saw Prince Zenol himself appearing in markedly better spirits as he drank and laughed. House Isphel was rising, and their enemies in Quarein and the other factions who were anti-Yisame were worried. After all this trouble with the plagues, the war in Tiqr, Pomle, against Illivere and the King of Destruction…Yisame thought things were looking up.
 
——
 
“Fascinating.”
Pisces Jealnet noticed what Ceria was doing, of course. He was paging through a book, biting his lip. He knew Ceria wanted to go to the Library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes, which probably had more than a hundred thousand spellbooks, let alone other texts.
Normally, he’d be all with her, learning magic, making the most of their time here before they had to go—and they did have to go to Baleros, to reunite with Ksmvr and Vofea.
It was just that things were changing. He thought of the letter he’d received. He glanced at Elena, who was listening to Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace explaining the political currents to her. He eyed Yvlon.
Silver Killer. Even now, people gazed at her, the new, unofficial Champion of Monarchs. They were having a tournament to crown the new champion. Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte were all competing to take the position, actually. They were now no longer in disgrace, and the new head of the Coliseum of Monarchs was a Yisame-loyalist.
In one fell swoop, they had added to Yisame’s power base, saved their friends, and…and that was well. Despite how dangerous it had been, Pisces wasn’t as mad at Yvlon as Ceria and Colth had been. They’d yelled at him for going with her, but Pisces had seen Yvlon’s logic.
She had a ring that could absorb magical barriers. Yvlon Byres was now one of the most deadly [Warriors] for any [Mage] to meet if they weren’t flying, behind a layer of traps, or ready to teleport.
She truly had changed from the [Armsmistress] who’d been a bit lost when she’d returned to Izril. She had mastered her temper and turned it into a weapon. She was incredible. Even Pisces could admit Yvlon was captivating in a martial sense. She was even calmer than before as she balanced on a Drake’s foot and read from the book she’d checked out, Famous Knights of Terandria, Edition LXXVIII.
Her blonde hair shone in the light, a rare color in the duskier courts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and her arms gleamed as she licked a finger and flicked a page, frowning at one of her ancestors of old.
By contrast, Pisces was aware of his white robes, which were plain cotton, if mildly enchanted, and frayed and damaged a bit from his adventures. He cast [Cleanse] silently and finger-combed his messy brown hair, which needed a cutting; it was getting in his eyes. He felt skinny and underfed—not that Yvlon was thickset. But he sat next to her and saw Ceria leap up, bowing, her clothing whirling around her. Floating—
Clothing from the Trial of Shields. So magic she leapt away at three quarters of her regular weight, and Colth caught her and ran away, a brown-green haired young man grinning like an imp, just like her. Skeletal hand, frosted skin, on her. His green hair waving about, bounding forwards—
Adventurers in their prime. The [Necromancer] rubbed at his nose, conscious of the eyes. Trying to keep up, but he saw even Ceria glancing at Yvlon, as if waiting for an explosion or wrench thrown into her plans, and Colth was smiling at the [Armsmistress]. It was not mere jealousy or his occasional bouts of self-doubt and self-loathing which prompted this feeling in Pisces today.
It was the disconnect between his team. And most of all…he gazed at Yvlon.
Level 47 [Silversteel Armsmistress]. She stood on the precipice of something. With each level, he felt her drawing closer. Colth was different; he held his nature back, and only showed his abilities when needed, but Yvlon was rising like the sun itself. Soon, Pisces felt.
Soon, she would be someone whom this world would know and respect in any land she walked. It had begun already.
“Not into your book, Pisces?”
Yvlon glanced at him, and he jumped.
“Er—no, no, it’s fine, Yvlon. Quite informative in an unsettling way. The writer is most excellent; though, one feels the inconsistencies in his telling. And the annotations? Most gratifying.”
She blinked at him, utterly blankly.
“Annotations?”
He showed her, and she scowled.
“Who writes in a book?”
“Don’t get mad, Yvlon. It adds to the book. Why, this book had been reprinted with annotations because it was so popular. You see, these are personal annotations by famed [Historians], even monarchs and other travellers who disagreed with the incipient text and narrative.”
She gave him that blank expression again as she shifted her weight and stood like an owl. Her foot morphed to a Garuda’s claw as if she’d had the same thought, and a Stitch-man sighed longingly. When both adventures glanced at him, he flushed, bowed, and hurried away.
So magical even Stitch-folk find you attractive, Byres. Pisces did not say that, he just explained as Elena edged over.
“Let me explain. This is a banned text in Nerrhavia’s Fallen without clearance; Librarian Dulstovie was kind enough to allow me to read it. It is Across the Immortal Empire by Corregrione the Explorer. A famously controversial book about Nerrhavia the Tyrant’s kingdom.”
Her very name made some of the Stitch-folk shudder, but Yvlon just raised her brows.
“Ah, so the annotation?”
“People clarifying his words, providing counterarguments or truth behind what was thought to be propaganda. Obviously, it does not capture Nerrhavia’s Fallen today, but some things—locations, even cultural markers—still remain after all this time. I thought it was germane to read.”
“Germane being…”
“Relevant or appropriate to the subject. May I read it when you’re done, Pisces?”
He blinked at Elena and nodded at the [Beautician].
“Of course, Miss Elena. Ah, good to have a fellow lover of history.”
So odd to have new people attached to his team, if not part of it. She smiled, and Pisces, who’d normally add some superior factoids, grew uncomfortable and—didn’t. He felt like it was tacky to do that, even though he knew that was his style.
And Yvlon herself didn’t glare at him for wording things fancily. She just nodded.
“If it’s that good, I might read it myself after Elena. This book isn’t much. Oh, it’s detailed about [Knights] and their quests, but it’s…I suppose I should have expected as much.”
“Not as well written?”
“No. It just makes it sound like every crusade and monster the [Knights] hunted down was just. They have a quote about hunting a ‘barbarous Chandrarian Stitch-folk’, and I took a look around and had to stop. One of my ancestors, no less.”
Yvlon closed the book and sighed. Pisces opened his mouth to say something needling about House Byres and stopped. But Yvlon did it for him.
“I knew my family was famous in its heyday. We truly have been everywhere and done everything—badly. I just bet Ylawes or my father would have loved to read this; even we don’t have it in our libraries.”
“Ah, well, not all Byres are objectionable, surely.”
“Name me a good one, Pisces.”
“…Ysara?”
She blinked, raised her head, and smiled at him. Again, it had seemed like she was prepared for a rude comment. She blinked at him, he at her, and they felt it.
Who are you? My friend. But what’s gotten into you? She raised an eyebrow. He waggled his. Yvlon snorted and jerked her chin up. He shrugged. She touched two fingers to her lips, expression slackening. Then just made a fist. Held up a thumb.
Pisces smiled at her. And wished it were so easy with Ceria or even Colth. After a moment, Yvlon coughed.
“My damn legs are giving me grief, anyways.”
“Still hurting?”
“Tingling. Like I can’t stretch ‘em out enough, and I ran around the palace six times today. I thought I’d die of dehydration. I’m worried I kept some magic from the Champion of Monarchs or some such. But Etrikah did clear me.”
Galas-muscle. Pisces saw Delitandra’s head swing around to Yvlon. He eyed her as she favored her metal foot, as if putting weight on her other foot felt odd. And he hesitated. Then said—
“Galas muscle. You’re developing it.”
Yvlon blinked at Pisces. He’d have kept it a secret, normally, a hunch. She scrubbed at her hair.
“Oh. Berr said I’d get ‘really strong’ if I levelled. Is that it?”
“It appears to be the case. I could be mistaken—”
“No, no, it makes sense. Do I activate it or something…?”
“You’d just rest for now, Adventurer Byres. If it is developing, and if—it normally comes after Level 50—you would need to wait.”
Delitandra strode over, and Yvlon ignored the heromaker. She just waited until Pisces nodded.
“That’s my understanding too. I need to research the subject. I know something of it from necromancy. But it is so rare, I defer to Hraace. You’ll get even more dangerous.”
“Well, if I die, you can have as much as you want.”
She grinned, and even that joke was new. Pisces smiled, and his heart hurt. He sat there until Ceria and Colth bounded over.
“Hey, guess who got us work?”
Pisces and Yvlon glanced around, found some appetizers a servant was holding out on a platter, and threw them at Ceria. At least they agreed on that.
 
——
 
“Okay, listen. I admit, breaking an old man’s hip wasn’t the best way to start the day, but Yisame’s going to use us, and getting out of the capital’s good for everyone. We’ve got objectives to pursue, right? Here’s my pitch: I want to raid the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes. Pisces, me, Colth, all of us copy spells all day. Yvlon, you scare the locals. Then we do one of Yisame’s quests, see about these ‘Mad Ones’, and from there, we either pursue Ksmvr’s sword and my things to the west or go east to find Pisces’ friends. Plan?”
Ceria pitched her plan to the team, and Pisces held up a finger.
“Do we need to visit the academy now, Ceria? No offense, but if you were to steal any books, I would rather have it be tomes. If I only have a day, I’d rather spend it reading this book and searching for magical artifacts in the markets, perhaps.”
Ceria wavered and frowned at Pisces.
“You don’t want to learn every spell they’ve got? They have Tier 6 magic at least—!”
“Ceria. Some of us don’t have magical circlets.”
He hit her with his best sniff and arch look, and a guilty expression appeared on her face.
“Ah, well—I can’t learn it overnight, but I can memorize—right. Maybe a week of study or if we could buy a book—”
“You’re more likely to grow wings and fly, but I’d be down to at least see what’s there.”
Colth favored Pisces with a longer glance before switching to Yvlon.
“The academy is a marvel, Yvlon.”
“I’m sure it is, but if we have time, I need to find that [Bodyguard] I wounded. Especially if we’re going on an adventure. If we can’t split up, Pisces, would you do that if I go shopping?”
He made a show of thinking and nodded.
“I could agree.”
“Damn, you sure you don’t want to check out spellbooks, Pisces?”
“I do have my own spellbook which I believes supercedes most in quality, Ceria. While I am occupied with that, I don’t see the need to split my focus.”
Ceria was crestfallen, but when he shook his head, she jumped up.
“Fine. Oh, Elena, where are you gonna go?”
The Heromakers of Hraace and Delitandra were left out of the discussions, but Elena wasn’t. The young Earther hesitated, then smiled.
“I might muck about the palace if that’s alright. I’ll keep safe!”
Colth smiled at her, and Ceria blew out her cheeks.
“Well, I suppose we might get an adventure courtesy of Yisame. Expect it tomorrow—it’s a good use of time. Go deal with, uh—Beton? We have to take a Magical Carriage there and back. Or a carpet.”
“Magical carriage. Carpets crash.”
Colth opined, and Pisces realized he genuinely didn’t want to spend a few hours having to ride to the other city where the famous magical academy was, then ride back. He stretched out.
“I’ll rest here, thank you, Springwalker. Do note the best tomes for me? I have a penchant for [Necromancy], obviously, but I’ll take darkness magic, illusion, with an option on generalist theory and other magic—”
She flipped him off as she walked out of the rooms backwards.
“I’m going to check just for ice magic, Pisces. Do your own research!”
“I’ll bookmark a few tomes. Get the carriage, Ceria? I just need a few bribes to sweeten anyone we talk to. [Mages] love food, and I’m going to raid the royal kitchens.”
Colth grinned at Ceria. She nodded, and Colth glanced at Pisces once before he walked out of the rooms.
“<[Limited Telepathy]. Hey Pisces, something up?>”
Pisces ignored the mental voice and just waved Colth off. He saw Yvlon stretching and thought he’d played it well.
 
——
 
Outside of their shared rooms, Ceria Springwalker stood for a moment, and her mind raced. The repaired magical circlet was a bit weaker than it had been before Flos shattered it. Weaker—but more cooperative.
[Accelerate Thoughts]. [Detect Mood]. Magical and Skill-based powers built into it. It was no mere Relic. She stood there and thought to herself. She was almost sure it was just her thoughts, but perhaps it was both hers and the circlet’s. Either way, she was sure.
He’s hiding something. But what?
After a moment, she strode off and began skating away. Pisces was allowed to have secrets. It was just that she could tell this one was about…her.
Fair enough. He’d not said anything about killing the Champion of Monarchs after he’d surrendered.
She supposed she deserved that.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was the least subtle member of the Horns of Hammerad. She didn’t have the sheer education the others did, despite being raised as a [Lady], nor the effects of a class which boosted your mental abilities.
She also, a bit famously, didn’t bother with all that. But she did have the amazing power of looking at other people’s faces.
She knew something was bothering Pisces, but he wasn’t prevaricating like normal and playing it off. He just asked her if she wanted to visit Beton first since they might need time, and she told him she’d found his home address and asked to visit; he’d agreed, so they might head down at any time.
So…they went.
It was never as simple as that, of course. They had to fend off sixteen people in Yisame’s palace who wanted their time. To hire the Horns, to get an autograph, to talk about the coliseum, to ask Pisces about—
Yvlon held them off with her patented trick of introducing herself at length. Outside the palace?
They were mobbed inside ten seconds of leaving.
“Adventurers! I have the best artifacts at my master’s store—”
“Adventurer Ceria! I saw you fighting! Autograph my cloth!”
“I know where someone buried treasure! If you listen to—”
Yvlon and Pisces froze in the face of true fandom, a crowd of Stitch-folk who ran at them. Pisces vanished, but what could that do when they just ran into you, screaming? Yvlon smiled, began her speech, and realized it made it worse.
 
——
 
A rather smug Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace found the two slightly winded and messy-haired adventurers standing just inside the palace grounds.
“Would you, perhaps, care for a disguise, adventurers? An escort is common.”
“Capital idea, Trainer Delitandra. Is Elena around?”
Pisces managed, and Delitandra’s face fell. Yvlon got up, and after retreating to their rooms and some careful prep, she emerged with some pre-fabricated disguises that Elena had worked on.
Dead gods, she was good. Even the Heromakers had to admit they wouldn’t have tried to change Pisces and Yvlon into Stitch-folk. Delitandra did brief them, though.
“You are Silk-caste Stitch-folk today. Easier to go about the city. Some may decide to take advantage, but your rank confers far more privileges than not. You need not act greatly different. Just do not make obviously outsider comments. Oh, and do not do anything completely stupid for a Silk to do in Cotton or Hemp areas, since you are visiting one of the Hemp. It is unlikely you could.”
“And if we’re found out?”
Yvlon was nervous, but Delitandra gave her a quizzical gaze.
“Think on it, Adventurer Yvlon. If you are, so what? You are merely, then, the famous Horns, and no one would begrudge you that. You will then be mobbed, but this will let you exit the palace. Silk Adventurers. We would go with you, but, eh, we shall go with Captain Ceria as we are noticeable. Or help Nawalishifra with her great project.”
To find metal to augment Yvlon’s arms. The [Armsmistress] had been worried it would be far more onerous, but to her relief, she and Pisces were being treated like capable adventurers. He nodded to her.
“I think we use [Invisibility] anyways, Yvlon. More than one person’s used it that I’ve seen.”
She nodded back, and they emerged into the grand palace of Tyrant’s Rest, filled with orange-brown stone, the pale beige sandstone augmented with beautiful colors, a palace of ancient eras that had worn down with time, but still bustled with the most attractive Stitch-folk you could imagine, wealth and power beyond dreams on display.
 
——
 
—The rest of the city was sort of like that. But the moment you left the palace, you saw it became far less wealthy. Oh, the edifices were there. The streets were made of ancient stone, the coliseum, great buildings of old towered high, but the streets grew into disrepair in places, and the people were less grand.
“The architecture of old imperium has outlived that of the people, at least, outside the palace.”
Pisces summarized how it felt far better than Yvlon could as they strolled past the crowds clamoring to see the Horns. They were spotted, actually; more than one person turned as the two invisible [Adventurers] passed, but then sagged.
“Just some Silks. Wait, that carriage—[Fame Sense]! They’re on it!”
When Pisces and Yvlon heard one of the [Ardent Fans] activate a Skill, they hurried out of the way. But once they cleared the street around Tyrant’s Rest, the truth is they just became ordinary visitors to the city. Tourists. No one was waiting for them, so Pisces dropped the [Invisibility] spell. People ran into you otherwise.
It was the first day they’d really been allowed to just…visit the capital of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They’d been so important and busy that Yvlon hadn’t taken much in. Now, she gazed around.
“Dead gods, we truly are on another continent.”
Pisces began chuckling, and she turned red, but it was in everything. The skin tones, the visible stitch marks—even the air—everything was alien to Yvlon.
Not bad, necessarily! But she stared at a group of young Stitch-folk who were kicking around a soccer ball down one street, laughing, young adults like what she might find around Liscor except in species—then at a flying Djinni bearing a huge load of goods on its back as it carried wares to market.
Fantasy. Even for a [Lady] of the north, this was truly like the stuff of storybooks. The same for Pisces. He was smiling upwards until he saw the cat-headed Djinni and remembered to look. Then he saw the chains around the Djinni’s legs, and it was like a shadow passed over the world.
For there was always the reminder, lurking in even the most beautiful sights here. That word that echoed in his mind.
Roshal.
Pisces’ head turned slowly, and he gave the street a second glance. The bustling hub that was one of the major cities of Chandrar hurt his eyes with the differences on the street. Darker skin. Stitched skin.
Sandstone where granite or wood would otherwise predominate. Different clothing from Izril; long robes and clothing that protected one’s skin from the abrasive sand and wind. Even different magic, yes. Enchantments in Izril tended to work based on gems, thanks to Salazsar. Steel was common as well, whereas Pisces saw more gold on display here.
Fine metals of far more diverse varieties, even mithril on display in stalls, albeit only enough for an earring or brooch clasp—if it was authentic. But also—Nerrhavia’s Fallen had more magic made into items.
A rug that might not fly, but could flip dust off itself. A magical doormat. Or how about a pot that would roll around for you, tumbling laundry or food? The magic was in the craft, not just an external sigil applied with melted gemstone. The hawkers of each stall called out constantly to every person.
“Cotton, sir! Would you be interested in fresh thread? Imported from Izril!”
“You three! Any interest in the latest goods from Baleros? Buy your spices now; shipping is still a mess, and prices will rise with the war!”
“Weatherfur dyes from the Meeting of Tribes! Support Gnolls, yes?”
That last one came from a boy hawking dyes at a respectable-looking stall attached to a store. It was built into the store such that he could open a door and nip inside for samples or to process orders. It was a clever advertisement; the Gnollish linguistic oddity caught Pisces’ attention and a few more on the street.
The boy was no Gnoll, of course. But he did have furry ears on his head. Pisces stared.
That’s right, furry wolf-ears. Not really a Gnoll’s if you knew Gnolls, but close enough. They stood up proudly and twitched as he convinced a few passersby to come over. He had a sly expression as he showed them Weatherfur dyes which were vibrant. Pisces began to drift over himself, wondering what Yvlon would make of—
And then, because he’d thought to look, he saw it. Just for a second, as the boy lifted a little sample tray for an interested Stitch-woman, Pisces saw a flash around his right arm. A thin bangle made of silver, engraved with deep runes that formed a magical circuit. One look and Pisces knew.
[Slave].
The boy was a slave. The magic Roshal used was…unsubtle. They did not need to hide the magical signature of their slave-collars. Far from it, they wanted someone to find a runaway slave. And the collars had only two main purposes.
To stay on the [Slave] so they could not escape, to act as locator beacons. And—to kill the runaway or to be activated to punish or manipulate those that wore such things.
This one had no ‘additional’ effects. It was a simple band for a child. And the boy didn’t appear to be hurt. He was, in fact, charming a Stitch-woman who asked how he’d had his ears done. Lying outrageously, too.
“These? These came from a Gnollish friend I have, Miss. He let me copy the designs and travels from the Meeting of Tribes to bring such dyes! From Feshi Weatherfur’s own tribe—he knows her, you see. This sunburst red one? Her favorite.”
Pisces doubted that the boy had any Gnollish friend from Izril. He was selling goods and was good at it, too. But the [Necromancer] drew no closer. He was trying to see if the boy…was hurt. He couldn’t see any bruises or scars, but in his experience, it was easy to hide such things. His father used to hit his back so it wasn’t…
He could feel the collar around his neck. Pisces tore his eyes from the boy for a second, breathing hard. Then he glanced around and saw them.
Once he recognized the magic, it was everywhere. Mostly in the more well-to-do stores or establishments. Not just storefronts, either. He stared at a restaurant serving pizza to Chandrarians like it was some exotic treat. And there, serving tables, was a Garuda with a bangle around one leg. So subtle it wasn’t even obvious—
Not everyone wore collars around the neck. In fact, the only group he saw with ones there were a bunch of laborers who had almost nothing beyond sack cloth and collar. Different kinds of [Slave]. But this was Nerrhavia’s Fallen; the largest economy in the world. And [Slaves]—
“Pisces?”
Yvlon touched his shoulder, and he reached for his rapier. He spun, and she recoiled.
“Pisces, I lost you. What—”
She glanced around sharply, but didn’t see it at first. Pisces breathed in, out.
“I—I’m sorry, Yvlon. I just noticed that there are—funny, I didn’t see any in the palace. There are [Slaves].”
“Where?”
She saw the laborers, but he had to point out the boy with wolf-ears. Yvlon stared at the ears, then the boy’s arm, and her face twisted up. Some of the enjoyment she’d had faded away, and she turned to him.
“I forgot that it’s everywhere. Reim hadn’t much, but they sell their prisoners of war for the King of Destruction’s armies, don’t they?”
Jecrass was anti-[Slave], and he had not lingered in Medain. Hraace might have had them, but again—Pisces shuddered. He looked around, then saw the boy at the dye-stall staring at him.
Out of the corner of his eyes. He was calling to people, but it seemed to Pisces that if he had recognized the boy, perhaps the boy had recognized him.
Why not? He might be wearing the Silk disguise, but he was still a [Mage] in white robes with a rapier…when everyone knew he was here. And Yvlon had just said his name. That, uh, was probably it.
Pisces turned, and for a second, the boy and he locked eyes.
Pisces tried to read the innocent green eyes of the ten year-old Stitch-boy’s face. But they didn’t give him anything. Just a bland smile. A bow and motioning with a hand.
Then—widening in alarm. The boy spun, and Pisces saw the door open. A Stitch-woman appeared, yanked the boy—
The shopkeeper? He saw the boy vanish into the store, hurried away by not another [Slave], but the owner of the place itself. She stared at him with true fear and hid the boy away. The stall was left unguarded, and Pisces realized that was because of him.
Pisces. Scourge of Roshal. Freer of [Slaves]. Killer of—
He stood there, and Yvlon put a cool hand on his shoulder.
“We can’t do anything right now, Pisces.”
“I’m aware, Yvlon. Don’t worry, I’m not—not a fool.”
They were only in Nerrhavia’s Fallen by the grace of Yisame. Breaking the law openly would void her support, and they were already on thin ice. He knew that, and Yvlon patted his shoulder.
“I know you know. I’m just…c’mon. We’ll get a mob of fans if we don’t hurry.”
He strode off, not glancing back at the stall. The boy might get in trouble. But Pisces did cast a simple spell; it reflected a corner of the world around him. A moving mirror. He saw, through it, the door open once he was two dozen paces away, and the boy slunk into his stall. He began calling out again, but his head turned twice to follow Pisces.
Then he was gone, lost in the crowd. The [Necromancer] kept walking. He had somewhere to be. But the sight of that was a stain on his enjoyment. It always would be. A shadow in every room, a stain on the ground. If he chose to look.
 
——
 
Tyrant’s Rest was pleasant, otherwise. And Yvlon kept pointing things out to Pisces as they walked. He tried to engage with it. In truth, he did welcome her company; without her, he’d have been lost in his thoughts.
But it was worth it to see Yvlon goggling at things like a girl, even if she did hurt his arms every time she grabbed him.
“Pisces, look! Look! An actual [Snake Charmer] and snakes! Are they for sale?”
Pisces glanced at a man encouraging passers-by to see snakes rising from clay pots as he blew a flute.
“I wouldn’t trust them once he stops playing or using his Skills. Oh. They’re for pest control?”
The quintessential sight the two foreigners had heard stories of was actually more of a pest-control service. The [Snake Charmer] was brisk as he lifted snakes up with tongs.
“For you, my Cotton friends, these are fine rat-hunters. Mice too! Just have them slither into any gaps in your walls or foundations and place a bucket underneath the hole—tall enough the rodents cannot jump out. And they will be gone, oh yes, within the day!”
“Do they handle Oresect bugs?”
One anxious Cotton mother asked, and the [Snake Charmer] hesitated.
“Not…metal insects. Some snakes may eat them, but they make the snake ill or will not die and just pass through them. Ah, but if you seek a remedy, I have an [Alchemist] friend who sells a most bountiful tonic one sprays to rust the dratted things! Almost all fall to it. A hundred pardons, but if you will wait but eight minutes, I could call him over to show you a demonstration…?”
He saw Yvlon and Pisces watching and bowed himself low as the people—all cotton and thus normal-looking to Pisces and Yvlon—stepped aside. Everyone bowed.
“Honored Silk-folk! May I interest you in my humble wares? If you had an interest in a pet or, pardon me to suggest it, pests of your own…”
“No, we’re just looking.”
Yvlon assured him, and the man bowed repeatedly.
“Of course, of course. Had you any desires? Any snakes to look at, Honored Silks?”
They assured him they didn’t, but he kept waiting for them, and only when they moved back did the worried woman and [Snake Charmer] resume their discussion. Yvlon knew that Elena’s treatment had made their skins glossier and touched up their faces, but that reminded her.
“Silk Stitch-folk truly are like nobility here, aren’t they, Pisces?”
“A second nobility given there are actual nobility, though I’ve never seen a noble made of cotton. It’s a bit unpleasant. It reminds me of home. That is to say, Ailendamus.”
She glanced at him as he walked with her.
“Terandrian kingdoms aren’t so bad, surely…?”
“Oh, not so openly. But a [Knight] receives privileges, as does any noble. It’s ‘better’ in Ailendamus—but I was always conscious of it. My father was in service to a local [Lord], so I had to be.”
Pisces scowled as he reflected on home, but it was so rare that Yvlon blinked at him. He caught her look and shifted.
“…It’s the only comparison I have.”
“No, it’s better than mine. I’ve always been a [Lady]. Just—imagine Revi having to bow and scrape all the time? No wonder she left.”
Pisces smiled, and they laughed about that. But his laughter caught like a fish hooked when he wondered if Revi had owned slaves or what her opinion was on…he coughed and shrugged.
“She’s not from here, but another Stitch-folk kingdom. But I imagine there are commonalities. Octavia is the one from here, Yvlon.”
Yvlon snapped her fingers with a sigh.
“Damn, I forgot. Do you think she’d really bow to every Silk person she passes?”
“Perhaps not as openly since she’s a Gold-ranker, but that’s the way it works. This bodyguard you injured? He was a Hemp-caste, was he not?”
Yvlon frowned.
“Yes…but a former top-tier [Gladiator]. I imagine he was rich enough to serve as a [Prince]’s primary bodyguard. That has to count for something, surely. I’m only guilty I wounded him so badly—I wonder what it was. He had mithril bones.”
She had a bad feeling she knew why, but Pisces just consulted the map Delitandra had drawn.
“It’s far from the royal palace. In the Sosyarn District…ah. It says ‘Hemp’ here. Well, this way.”
They strode onwards, and Yvlon noted that the streets of the capital were as packed with magic and wealth as Invrisil’s. Plenty of scrying orbs showing the latest Wistram News segment, but also song crystals from Terandria. Even, she realized, bootlegged versions where someone had sung a cover of the famous Singer of Terandria’s songs and was trying to pass it off as her own.
There were hawkers who assailed non-Stitch-folk, offering bolts of cloth, magical items of dubious value, trinkets—even a bunch of lamps and sealed containers which might contain a Djinni, you never knew!
Pisces and Yvlon got to see a flustered Garuda actually flap out of a crowd of [Hawkers], once again immune thanks to their disguises. People called out to them too, but of a different nature.
Would the noble Silks like to partake of a new food from other continents? Did they need their stitching redone? There was a Silk [Stitchmistress] who could tend to them. The latest alchemical balms? Alchemist Sulth’s own creations, the most important [Alchemist] trending in the streets! A recording of the Silver Killer fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs?
Yvlon turned red at that last one, and Pisces managed a chuckle. Then, as they passed out of the main streets and came towards their destination, the magic and wealth…vanished.
 
——
 
Hemp Stitch-folk had their own shops and businesses, but every time Yvlon and Pisces passed, everyone stood up and bowed, or pretended not to see them. No one would walk in front of the two, and yet the adventurers felt like they were being watched.
Yvlon eyed a passing bakery, and the bread seemed no less good, but there were no fancy egg-brushed leaves, no advertisements for ‘baking soda from Izril’ nor cakes.
No sugar in great quantities. No magic in stores, and certainly no hawkers. Even the buildings appeared far worse.
“No paint on the façades. And their clothing…”
Pisces murmured, and Yvlon wanted to scold him.
“Don’t be rude, Pisces.”
“I’m not attempting to be, Yvlon. But have you ever seen anyone dressing like that? I haven’t, not in Ailendamus. Maybe a Terandrian kingdom with [Peons], but—”
Yvlon eyed the roughest shirt she had ever seen on a sweating Hemp man hauling bags of cement or other masonry supplies past her. He had six bags, three on each shoulder, which she had to guess were at least forty or thirty pounds apiece. But his legs were thick, and though he was sweating, he didn’t seem to strain.
He just plodded forwards, face set in that unthinking expression of someone lost in the work. Yet he moved aside for Pisces and Yvlon despite the load, bowing his head.
He was—perhaps—the roughest man Yvlon had laid eyes on. Not ugliest, just…rough. His nose was a blunted line, flat down the center, wide, a bit mismatched. He had thick arms which somehow contrived to not ripple with muscle so much as just bulge. His skin was so coarse it looked like calluses.
The effects of his cloth being hemp. He looked tough, but so much less refined than the sculpted features of the Court of Silks that he appeared to be a different people entirely. But his clothing?
You could make clothing out of anything, of course. Like how yarn or thread could be spun out of countless materials, hair, wool—another type of hair—reeds, you name it. But Yvlon had never seen someone wearing a yarn shirt that was so loose-knit that she could see brown skin through the holes. Let alone visible fraying in the cloth, fibers breaking out of the thread.
It looked like wearing one of those fuzzy, homemade sweaters Yvlon had gotten from members of her distant family sometimes as a gift. Only, a sweater made by someone who didn’t actually know how to knit and who was using such inferior materials that it was coming apart already.
That was the Hemp man’s shirt. His pants were some kind of hide, but untreated, just as fraying and poor-quality, stitched up with huge, white threads that did not fit. Neither Pisces nor Yvlon had ever dreamed of such poor clothing; even [Beggars] in their homelands wouldn’t have worn what this man had.
“Do you think he’s that poor off? Surely not. We could give him—”
Yvlon actually fumbled for her belt pouch as the man moved past them. Pisces turned his head, then glanced up and down the street.
“Delitandra said not to show ourselves.”
“But his clothing, Pisces—!”
“I think it’s normal. Look around, Yvlon. The clothing isn’t so bad on all, but it’s similar. Think about it. It makes sense.”
Because they’re Hemp? Yvlon drew breath, feeling a spark of outrage and recognizing it as such. She tucked it into the jar Berr had told her to make in her heart, then realized Pisces meant something else. He glanced at her.
“Because they’re Hemp. Because they’re Stitch-folk, Yvlon. They have better cloth. They are wearing it. It’s their skin.”
She blinked. Then she saw it.
Stitch-folk were the one species in the world who needed cloth to make their flesh and bones. Not all cloth would do, and they coveted rarer materials, which kept stuff like silk uncommon, for all they produced it. They had the highest demand for quality fabrics, and Chandrarian cloth was a watchword for sophistication in other continents.
But if you were Hemp and couldn’t make yourself out of cotton, or weren’t allowed to…or you just didn’t have the money, where did your cloth go?
Not on your body. In your body! If you had material for a shirt that was good, make yourself a chest or something instead! Naturally, it still implied a lack of money and resources that made Yvlon deeply unsettled, but she realized that for all their rough looks, the Hemp Stitch-folk seemed decent enough quality.
“Are they not allowed to buy cotton or anything, Pisces?”
“I…believe so. You cannot wear what is above your station. Or possibly you can wear it, but buying it is the issue. It must limit them greatly. With that said, I have heard Hemp is far stronger and more durable than these higher-quality fabrics, aside from Silk and magical cloth.”
“Yisame said that most armies are 70% Hemp with only a fraction being Silk.”
The further the two walked into the Sosyarn District, the more that became clear too. Broad and sprawling the capital city might be, but this entire district was just Hemp people. If Nerrhavia’s Fallen were a pyramid where Silk stood on the top, Cotton just below, that also went for demographics. There might be three Hemp for every Cotton Stitch-folk.
The quality of housing and the streets didn’t get worse the further Yvlon and Pisces walked. In fact, the opposite sort of happened. At first, the decrease in quality was instantaneous and jarring. The streets emptied of almost all non-Hemp folk and appeared run down. The buildings became thin apartments, and the air itself smelled less clean, the streets dirtier and unswept.
…After a few streets, the ground was re-paved. The housing became modest again, if less grandiose. And the Hemp folk looked, if somewhat rough, far more natural.
And the [Slaves] re-appeared. That was discomfiting to Pisces. He’d thought, perhaps naïvely, that once they left the richer parts of the city, no one would be able to afford [Slaves].
However, once you got out of the distinctly poor Hemp streets, they appeared again. Housekeepers sweeping out steps, a team assigned to repair a broken bit of street—and ones minding stalls again. Even a few personal servants accompanying Hemp masters.
Not as many, and not dressed as finely, but Pisces realized two things. Firstly, none of the [Slaves] were Stitch-folk. They were Human, by and large, Garuda, or…
And they had better clothing than their Hemp masters. Perhaps because they were allowed to have it. He saw many had some kind of badge which he assumed marked them as public servants. A way for the city to have many useful workers. Cheaper than Golems. Adaptive…
Yvlon broke into Pisces’ thoughts again as she nudged him and indicated a Hemp woman with a flax dress that nevertheless looked quite fashionable in how it was dyed. She could have fit into Invrisil with ease; only the fabric was off.
“Weird. This area appears richer to my eyes.”
Yvlon commented, and Pisces stroked his chin.
“Mine too. Odd that Hemp folk would live better away from the palace and richest parts of the city.”
“Unless they prefer it that way. My father used to tell me that the richer people in House Byres didn’t live close to our family. Rich commonfolk tended to their own communities. Lest they compete with the nobility. The same for the rest of the north.”
They were making rapid inferences about the state of Nerrhavia Fallen’s culture, and Pisces hesitated.
“We should avoid making sweeping generalizations about this nation, Yvlon. I do know what I’ve read: in the Immortal Tyrant’s time, apparently, cloth mattered not at all. The author, Corregrione the Explorer, made a point of referencing how Terandria also has a caste system.”
“…So under the Immortal Tyrant, everyone was equal? And now she’s dead, they’ve gone back to cloth quality mattering?”
“Er, well, yes. Not to say they didn’t have hierarchies in the Immortal Empire’s time. Just based on other factors. Perhaps I shouldn’t make allusions to Nerrhavia while we’re on the streets.”
The Hemp people were giving them increasingly wary glances, and Pisces and Yvlon got the distinct impression they were alarming the locals.
“They might think we’re inspecting something. How likely is it that Silks get robbed in the streets, Pisces…?”
“Er…I forget. We’re close to our destination according to this map. What if we—?”
He plucked at the stitching on his arms, and Yvlon wiped at her right and left shoulders, which were bare. When the ‘skin’ came away and revealed silver, the Hemp folk nearly leapt out of their stitching, then pointed.
“Is that—?”
“The Horns of Hammerad? Here?”
Ironically, the two Horns got much the same reaction as they had around the palace. The instant they took off their disguises, the Hemp people came forwards. Only, it wasn’t as instantly unpleasant as before. Perhaps because no one was trying to sell them things or take advantage.
“Pardon us, excuse us, we’re just here to meet one of Yvlon’s friends.”
“She isn’t going to rampage, is she? I saw you tearing the Champion of Monarchs apart. None of us hold chains here, Scourge!”
Pisces awkwardly signed an autograph card as Yvlon smiled.
“—so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and we’re just here to see—Beton? Beton the Doomguard?”
Several people recognized the name and hesitated.
“Not to finish the fight? He’s lain sick for months—”
“No, no. Not at all. I owe him a debt! I swear by my arms we’ve come to simply help.”
That convinced some of the Hemp, who pointed out a house on the corner of the street. Pisces rubbed at his nose after shaking hands.
“Quite a friendly people. How do they know about us conquering Albez and the magic door?”
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen loves stories, or so Yisame said. By the way, did you see some of the children sweeping for Oresect bugs? Etrikah said they’re mostly contained here, but I think I saw a few around us. I sort of…felt them.”
Pisces glanced at Yvlon.
“They did come from your arms, or whatever Tolveilouka gave to you. Can you control them?”
“Nothing like that.”
They walked up to one of the nicer homes in the area, a two-story building that was broad and wide and, if unpainted, lovely enough. It even had a garden area, though instead of greenery, there were colorful rocks. A rock garden—given the heat, with plenty of shading. Yvlon rang a bell at the entrance, and they waited, glancing at the doors. Then Yvlon murmured.
“There’s more on this street than any other. And more in the house. A…a lot more. I’m worried, Pisces.”
“You didn’t know it was you, and you couldn’t have, Yvlon. If that fool of a [Magistrate] hadn’t arrested you, this might have never been a problem.”
She said nothing until the door opened and a woman appeared. She was different from the others; she looked like a Human woman with brown skin and a wary expression—until she saw Yvlon’s arms and gasped. Then she hesitated, slammed the door, and Yvlon winced.
“Perhaps he doesn’t want to see me.”
They might have dithered, but less than thirty seconds later, the door was flung open, and the woman appeared.
“Adventurer Byres, Scourge Pisces, enter, please! I am Coltora Hemp, wife of Beton. If you bear him no grudge for Prince Esceit Quarien, camels shit in his beds, enter. Beton was dismissed from the Prince’s service a month after he battled you, Silver Killer.”
“Miss Coltora, I have come to help Doomguard Beton. I owe him a great debt. May we enter?”
Yvlon bowed and took the woman’s hand to shake it. Pisces bowed too.
“I as well, Miss Coltora. May I compliment your cloth?”
It was customary in Nerrhavia’s Fallen to remark on someone’s appearance. Stitch-folk were simultaneously more willing to comment on features and also less impressed by it. Coltora took Pisces’ hand and studied him.
“No one holds chains within my home, Adventurer Pisces. It is merely my family and Beton’s. As for this—”
She touched her face and shook her head.
“It is to stand well enough among Cottons for my job. My family cuts cloth. But I thank you; does it look normal to Izrilian Humans?”
Yvlon didn’t know what to say, but Pisces felt himself relax a bit at Coltora’s words. He tried to be charming as she led them into the home. Stitch-folk didn’t mind comments on appearance, so…
“I would mistake you for any Izrilian woman but for your skin tone, Miss Coltora.”
She did smile at that.
“Thank you. Normally, I keep it darker, but there was some cloth misdyed that I found on sale. Had I known you were coming, I might have pulled out satin—”
“My word, satin? One supposes a famous [Gladiator] has access to all manner of cloths.”
The home was, far from mansion-like, crowded with plenty of rooms. No less than five Hemp people jumped or did double-takes as they entered. Yvlon saw a huge room filled with sewing equipment, and indeed, someone with a pair of huge scissors bent over a bolt of cloth. Another was stitching up what looked like a pair of lungs, complete with tiny bits of thread on the interior.
So this is how you made Stitch-folk bodies. Pisces saw a rack of cloth genitals hanging on one wall and completely lost his flow—Coltora waved at the Stitch-man working there.
“Hamlest! Cover this up! I apologize, we did not think to have guests today. Yes, I have satin, though it is a rare thing to wear it. Mostly when I must go into the inner city. Beton? No. He is Beton the Doomguard who wears steel wool, and so Hemp he always must be. Even if that were not so, you cannot rise if you are Hemp. Not truly. You can change your cloth, but you will always be the same in their eyes. Alked Fellbow knew that. I apologize; I know it is unseemly to show parts of us to outsiders.”
“Not at—uh, not at—they’re quite lovely genitals—”
Coltora’s lips twitched as she glanced at Pisces, and there was a guffaw from the closed workshop doors. Yvlon relaxed. There was the [Necromancer] she loved. She took over.
“It’s odd to me, but most things are, even in Izril, Miss Coltora. So you can make any limb or organ you wish?”
“We only provide for Hemp, of course; we have not the talent nor cloth for better.”
Coltora said instantly. Pisces nodded.
“Er, the quality of cloth and fine work dictates how well each organ is used, Yvlon. And Stitch-folk do need to replace limbs frequently. Revi, Adventurer Revi, always complained about that. And—er—”
“Is that a relative, Miss Coltora? Why would you want a man sewing up penises?”
It seemed to Yvlon that anyone from Izril would object in strenuous terms to imagine another fellow had handled their junk, even if it was to create it with cloth. However, Coltora began to laugh, and someone came out with little metal cups filled with some sweet, thick liquid.
“Cordial? For the heat. It is very sweet. Here is water.”
They were given a cup of the super syrupy liquid and water, which could dilute it. Pisces was so flustered he took down half a cup before gulping water. Yvlon savored the odd taste and mixture. Chuckling, Coltora took the lid off a little hexagonal box in the center and revealed puffs of white, springy bread or some such. They had a bit of spicing on them and tasted rather savory as you chewed. Soft as could be.
“Cloudpieces and cordial. It is not much, I apologize. As to your question, Adventurer Yvlon, I do not know how Izrilian Human men think. But to Stitch-men, I do not know a one who would trust any woman to design their genitals. They would assume we had no knowledge of how one worked well enough to craft it to a man’s satisfaction.”
“Aye, which means it pleases them and no one else.”
That comment came from one of Coltora’s sisters, who’d brought the platter out. Coltora swatted at her sister.
“Remiila! Forgive me, she’s excited to meet such famous adventurers. Please forgive the stares.”
Everyone was staring, even the man working on genitals. Pisces coughed.
“Quite understandable—forgive my ignorance. Lovely snacks. And, uh—”
“If you say the genitals look well-crafted, I’m telling Colth and Ceria.”
Yvlon whispered in Pisces’ ear. He shut up. Everyone was chuckling when Yvlon felt her arms tingling. She felt it as she turned her head, and then…
The buzzing was louder and deeper than usual. Even metallic, for it came from wings of steel. It was a huge, fat beetle which flew down the hallway, and Coltora’s laughter instantly cut off. She grabbed something from a wall—a net—and swung it.
“Forgive us, it’s just—Remiila, get one of the [Sweepers] to take care of this. Smash it outside.”
She handed it off, and reminded of her mission, Yvlon cleared her throat.
“Is Beton sick? I would speak with him. I hope I can help…”
When Coltora glanced at her next, the woman’s eyes were lidded. And there was a flash of—but she just nodded.
“He is in his rooms. He is not well, but his levels have held off the—complications. Sage Etrikah herself has seen him, but the issue is deep, even when we tried to change his cloth. I hope you can help, Adventurer Byres. He took his wounds for you.”
“Yes. Please, show him to me.”
Yvlon put the cup down, and Pisces followed her. Before she reached the rooms, deepest in the mansion, before she heard the faint buzzing sound, Yvlon could feel it.
The sin she had brought from the Village of the Dead; the plague of metal born of her arms. Living insects. There were a lot of them in there. When she opened the doors and saw the man lying in bed, wracked with apparent pain, but who smiled to see her, Yvlon bowed until her head nearly touched the bed.
They were in his flesh.
 
——
 
Beton the [Doomguard], a high-level Hemp man, former [Gladiator] and bodyguard to Prince Esceit, was in good humor for a man who had literal bugs eating his flesh and bones. He lay there as the faint buzz of insects filled the air behind the protective nets his family had hung up.
“It is merely the collision of two strange classes and the malady of Oresects, Adventurer Byres. Not your fault. I…have [Bones of Steelthread]. As well as other Skills of the same. Even when my cloth changes, my Skills do not. I am no woman of metal. Just a Stitch-man made of it. Alas, that means my flesh is contaminated.”
“I’m so sorry. I didn’t know, and I left—”
“I did not know I was sick either until you had gone.”
His body was, like Hemp, rough and even odder still for it had a slightly reflective sheen, as if he truly were made of metal. But he was lying abed, and his huge arms had atrophied slightly from lack of use.
From being eaten. For all that, he had been writing on paper when they’d interrupted him. Doing finances. Now he sat back, and Pisces saw something run under his flesh. A bug.
The [Necromancer] was used to foulness in bodies he dug up; he was used to putrefied flesh and maggots. He wanted to burn down half the city. However, Beton just caught his eye and shrugged.
“The horror of it wears off. No matter how much I remove, my cloth seems to birth more in time. I think…the sickness is in my very threads, and since I cannot simply remove my head without dying, I cannot cure it entirely. It will not kill me, but because I am a hazard, I stay here.”
“How do you survive, sir? The pain—”
“I removed my nerves, of course.”
Pisces started at the simple response, but Beton just indicated his arms.
“It is not common, but Stitch-folk can do so. It is far harder; we are made to turn cloth to functional limbs. But my family knows how we are made, and thus I feel nothing, just hear the damned things. As I can replace my body, it is not the worst affliction. And it even pays something, for there is a bounty on Oresect insects.”
He chuckled, but he was making light of his affliction, Pisces was sure. He was watching Yvlon as she finally rose.
“Beton…I will help you if it is in my power. I’m only sorry I didn’t come sooner.”
“You remembered. Your debts to Mectail and to me are being kept.”
“Of course. You’re both [Gladiators] who I owe so much to. You, Zenol, and so many.”
She replied, and he chuckled.
“That is what I hoped for. That is how I know you two are not of here. You treat your debts to me like that of a [Prince] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Well then…what do you think?”
Coltora watched from the door as Yvlon pushed past the layers of curtains. There were metal bugs hanging there; when she disturbed them, they buzzed around her, then came for Yvlon, landing on her armor, her arms. She shivered; her metal arms visibly rippled and stabbed out. They hit the bugs, knocking them back. Then the bugs converged again, biting at the enchanted breastplate, at Yvlon’s arms. One nipped her, and she swore. Then—
They arose in a huge swarm, buzzing—and flew to the far side of the curtains. As far from Yvlon as they could. Beton’s head rose, and Pisces felt his skin doing that prickling thing.
“I can’t control them. But I can tell a part of my arms is in them. And whatever’s in my arms…I don’t think they can eat it. It’s like them. I think they think I’m some big bug.”
Yvlon spoke after a moment, and Beton exhaled.
“Ahh. What of the malady? Fourteen times, Etrikah has sent her formula that cleans surfaces, but it is deep in the metal. I have heard of metalworks in other parts of the empire which were rotted to the center, feet deep in the steel or metal. They had to be demolished, re-smelted to fix it. Oresects germinate from all mundane metals. I have not heard of any from Mithril or Adamantium…those would be true problems.”
“Do they get bigger?”
“Rarely. At the start, there were some big as rats. Dangerous too, for how strong they were. Mostly, they are small. Thumb-sized.”
“I can’t tell. I can’t tell what they are, only that there’s a kinship here. But whatever they are, it’s not me. They’re just made like me. No. They’re inferior.”
Yvlon was running her arms up and down Beton’s arms. He shifted, and Pisces saw a glittering bug crawl out of a hole in his arms. The skin was breached in places, eaten away, and they were crawling out of his—
Pisces had to look away, and he saw Coltora doing the same. But Yvlon’s voice was calm.
“I don’t think I could have helped last year, Beton. I wouldn’t know how. Even now, I’m hesitant…I don’t have a Skill that commands metal. But I think I’m cured of whatever Tolveilouka did to me. I know I am, because I have [Aspect of Silver]. You feel sick. Plagued metal.”
“What can be done, then?”
“I don’t know. But I do know what’s bad and what’s not. Where’s Etrikah’s formulas? I should have brought some.”
“We have some. We spray metal with it—I’ll get it, Adventurer.”
Coltora dashed off, and she came back with an alchemical tonic, half-full in a vial which you mixed with water. Yvlon just took the mixture, poured some on a hand, and grabbed a beetle.
It squirmed around mightily, not happy, but the mixture didn’t kill the beetle.
“Some mixtures from [Alchemists] rust the things or make them weak, but it is just how it would work on normal metal. Etrikah’s purifying liquid does not kill them.”
“No. But it’s cleansed the beetle. Can they still reproduce?”
“Yes, even when sprayed.”
“…They must be doing it naturally. But they wouldn’t plague metal like this.”
Yvlon held the squirming beetle up, and Pisces was fascinated, despite his nausea. It must have been her class. She squished the beetle, inspecting the metallic blood inside. Wiped her fingers with a grimace.
“Let me see what happens when it meets your flesh.”
She began to apply it with a towel, and Coltora went in to help when Yvlon realized she’d need to clean Beton’s entire body, including his unmentionables. After a few seconds, though, she grunted.
“Nope. It’s not working. We purified the top layers of your flesh, but you’re sick to your bones.”
“Good.”
Beton grunted as he lifted a sweaty limb out of bed. Yvlon eyed him.
“Good?”
“You’re certain. Thus, I believe you will help me. Moreover, you and I agree on what you see.”
Pisces could tell how Beton had survived long enough to become a [Doomguard]; there was a kind of stoic implacability to how he acted. No panic, just decisiveness. The kind of fellow who could have chaos spring up around him and pick out the first person to start hitting.
Yvlon grunted.
“Do you have…spare limbs for Beton, Miss Coltora?”
“I—I could get some out of hemp. Beton uses specialized steel wool for his skin and such, but if it’s just for now?”
“Those will do, I think. Pisces, do you have any ideas?”
“Me? I’m hardly an expert—”
“You repaired my arms, Pisces. Please.”
He approached and made a show of inspecting Beton’s arms; the man had removed one and opened the cloth down to the ‘bones’ inside. A few bugs moved around his insides, not just beetles but long centipedes, and—Pisces backed up, but Yvlon was focused. And she might claim she wasn’t intelligent, but she was dogged.
“Try this arm, Beton. It’s perfectly uncont—hmm. It just turned to metal, and the plague’s moving. Right here.”
She touched the joins where he’d connected it to his body. Beton was calm.
“The solution, then, is to replace my entire infected body with new cloth, piece by piece, while ensuring no new piece is infected. The problem, Yvlon, is my head.‘
He inclined it, and Yvlon exhaled.
“…There’s metal there too. No insects in your brain, though.”
“I do not think my brain is metal. But we have been very, very careful that no Oresect hatches there.”
His eyes glinted, and he indicated the stitch-marks around his neck.
“The problem is, removing one’s head kills a Stitch-folk. Not as fast as you Humans, but without precautions, it is impossible. And Aberrant Stitching is against the laws of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Hmm. So we have to fix your head. You couldn’t, I don’t know, remove your flesh piece by piece, and bones, then replace it all?”
Yvlon asked it so casually that Pisces had to turn to Coltora. The woman’s full wince and appalled expression said that this was not normal for Stitch-folk. But Beton’s voice was calm.
“If that is what must be done, I might risk it, but it is very, very risky. Our Lifethread is in our heads, and it is unto your own hearts or brains, Yvlon. Only, if ours are destroyed, death is inevitable.”
“…Something else, then. Can you—is there any Skill that can clean this plague? It can’t be impossible if Etrikah beat it!”
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia Fallen’s war against the Oresect plague had been intense enough to level her. For answer, Beton called for one of the [Sweepers] outside.
“I need one of your best [Sweepers]. Any of the ones who dealt with the Oresects at their worst and learned to clean the plague. Tomiec, I am thinking. Tell them Beton asks for an urgent favor.”
“At once, Clothsetter.”
The [Cleaner] was just a street urchin, but they bowed, fist to their chest, and ran out the door with their broom so fast that Pisces actually believed they were heading straight over.
“You didn’t even bribe him. What does ‘Clothsetter’ mean?”
He assumed it to be a title from Beton’s life, but the [Doomguard] hesitated, then sighed.
“A term I do not deserve. Clothsetter, for one who sets the look and feel of cloth. As unto someone who dictates the next fashion. A title of honor.”
Someone you followed the example of. It made sense for Stitch-folk. Yvlon was organizing a replacement set of limbs with Coltora, making sure they were all clean of plague, when a boy raced into the room.
He was fifteen, had a broom on one shoulder made out of plain wicker strands, a cheap sweeping tool, but he was, astonishingly, clean. He looked like any [Chimneysweep] or poor [Cleaner] that Pisces could imagine. A streetrat, only wherever you expected a bit of grime, a smudge of dirt, there was none.
“Clothsetter, Doomguard Beton, I came fast as I could. What can a poor [Cleaner] do for the likes of such famous lots?”
His eyes twinkled with all the impishness of his age, and Beton rumbled.
“These are friends of mine, come to heal my maladies, Tomiec. Be respectful. Yvlon, this is Tomiec, who can clean even the Oresect plague. They had him sweep the palace itself in the first few months.”
“For a lashing when I got in the way of fine Silks, aye.”
“A lashing you deserved to not do it twice. But for your Skills and my words and you’d have been hung or burnt. Tomiec, what Skill do you have?”
“[My Broom Sweeps Cleanest].”
Tomiec twirled his broom around showily, which quite impressed Pisces, but Coltora’s glower made the boy stop. However, something was odd that both he and Yvlon sensed. Pisces saw Beton’s eyes on him, and once more, he could have played the cautious [Necromancer], but…Pisces coughed.
“Tomiec’s level is well in advance of any boy his age I’d expect to find, Beton. He’s at least Level 30, isn’t he?”
Coltora’s head turned, and Beton smiled.
“He is. Tomiec Hemp has swept the sewers of Tyrant’s Rest, to the palace now, but also the rooms of [Mages].”
“Since they can’t trust Djinni to do it, aye. Magesoot, shitscummer, and the dirt of nobles, which is filthiest of all. But I’m just a [Cleaner], no [Healer].”
Yvlon glanced at Tomiec and motioned to Beton’s bad arm.
“Interesting. Can you show it to me on that arm, please?”
Tomiec did and ran his broom down the arm, letting the wooden bristles move slowly. They should have missed tons of dirt, but he even swept some of the metal beetle that Yvlon had crushed off the bed, flicking it to the side. Even dust. More dust than Pisces could imagine hit the far wall, to Coltora’s displeasure and dismay, but Tomiec whirled the broom around, and it became a pile on the carpets at his feet. He winked at Pisces.
“Most of what lies in a bed is dust and bits of skin and worse. Not all of it is bad. Good?”
“Yes and no. His Skill did better than even Etrikah’s mixture, but it only goes an inch or two deep.”
“2.2 inches.”
Tomiec corrected Yvlon, and she glanced down at Beton’s arm. Measured.
“Half that. It must not work on flesh as well. Even if he took his broom, he couldn’t get your bones, Beton. Unless we split you open vertically and he broomed you?”
Tomiec’s swagger visibly deflated at Yvlon’s comments, and he gave the Silver Killer a horrified look. Which was made worse when Beton hmmed.
“I would survive that. But my head is thicker than two point two inches around.”
“Maybe, but your brains aren’t sick…it’s only your bones. If only I could reach into you and just yank it out! But I can’t do that. I can turn my arms to liquid, but…”
One of Yvlon’s arms dripped into Beton’s infected arm and moved around. Then swirled back up, and she grimaced.
“I can’t pluck disease up. But I can heal myself; [Aspect of Silver].”
She turned entirely to silver, then reverted.
“It’s gone from me.”
High level Tomiec might be, but he retreated in the face of Yvlon’s madness. He bowed to Pisces belatedly.
“Scourge of Roshal. I’ve heard from the Cleaner’s Guilds about the blood your people spilled on sands across the kingdom’s borders. Not that I could afford a [Slave], of course.”
He watched Pisces’ rapier nervously, and Pisces, conscious of the fact that this was not him but everyone thought it was, smiled.
“I never imagined otherwise, Tomiec. Are all [Cleaners] your level?”
“No, especially not of my age. But someone must clean even the greatest [Mage]’s privy. And us Hemps get the hardest tasks. No one of Cotton is half my level!”
Tomiec folded his arms, and Yvlon glanced at him.
“That Skill of yours, Tomiec. Does it work with any broom?”
“Any in this world. Had I a magic one, I could clean half of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in a day! But without it I have levelled, and before I am twenty, I shall be double that in levels! Then I shall clean the shit from the faces of all the Silks who spit on us, instead of merely the streets where it lands.”
The boy was all confidence now. He lifted his broom overhead, and Beton and even Coltora smiled at him. Like a son. With pride and pain, and Pisces thought there was a story there. But all Yvlon did was nod.
“Good. Here’s a broom.”
She lifted a finger, and it turned into the tiniest broom imaginable, morphing. Tomiec’s smile vanished, and she pointed at Beton’s face.
“If I stick it under his skin in the right places, can you sweep along his bones? Even if you just hold my arm, is that enough of a broom for your Skills?”
Tomiec stared at Yvlon. Coltora backed behind Pisces, whose skin was doing the goosebumps thing again. Even Beton eyed Yvlon.
She smiled.
 
——
 
“Ew. Ugh. Ew—”
“Tomiec. Stop complaining. The metal is in my head.”
“It’s my finger up your nose. Shut up, both of you.”
The smallest broom in the world was scraping across Beton’s inner body. A purifying broom made of silver, moving as Yvlon directed her arms with the slow, exacting actions of someone who didn’t want to make a sudden move and…explode something.
Like Beton’s face. She was sweating.
He was sweating.
Tomiec wasn’t sweating because he looked like he was going to faint. He had hold of Yvlon’s arm, and he was sensing her doing something. It was working, at least, according to Yvlon.
“I’m positive we got most of his head. It’s trying to respread. I’m going to shift upwards along his skull—”
“Ow.”
“Okay, I’m not going that way. Tomiec, your Skill good?”
“It does not run out. I wish to go, please? H-how are you—? Your arm feels like a broom! It feels like an actual broom. How?”
For answer, Yvlon just smiled as she re-adjusted, and Beton confirmed it didn’t feel like she’d hit an artery or anything precious.
“[Limb: Imbue Skill]. I’ve never had to use it like this, but I can make it like a sword. Why not a broom?”
“What kind of madwoman thinks so? You are mad.”
“Berr says madness is mandatory at our level. Hold on. I’m not sure…”
One of Yvlon’s arms was performing the invasive cleansing process. The other one?
It was currently doing a cross-section of the Human—or Stitch-folk—head. An amazingly detailed one. She’d asked Pisces to crosscheck her work, and he stared at the silver map of a head as Yvlon wiggled a bit of silver tendril around it.
“[Silversteel: Structure of Species]. Okay, let’s go back and go through the ear.”
“Wonderful.”
“May I take five minutes to puke? I shall clean it up.”
“No. We’re on a time limit, and we’re more than halfway done. Pisces, if I go through the ear, here…”
Yvlon demonstrated, and Beton appeared ready to object, but it was working. Pisces just sat there, head in his hands.
“I regret ever helping you with anatomy, Yvlon. Has it occurred to you that we’ve gone too far?”
She just laughed at him.
 
——
 
It only took twenty-six minutes before Beton sat up, and Yvlon let him reconnect his limbs and pronounced his body clean of the Oresect plague as far as she could tell. He wiped at his nose several times, massaged his face, then got out of bed.
When he did, he looked…solid. Imposing, even without a body designed for combat. The [Doomguard] regarded his cloth, which was in tatters, mixed with the Oresect insects.
It would all have to be disposed of, but once the last taint was gone, he would be able to wear metal flesh again—without the same issues, or so Pisces believed. The rot that had infected him to the bones was gone, and now Beton smiled and nodded once.
“Yvlon Byres, Silver Killer.”
He clasped arms with her.
“You have repaid the debt I offered by knighting for you.”
She blinked at him, surprised.
“I have not even begun to repay it, Beton. All this time you’ve been sick because of me—! First, I cost you your health, then your job with Prince Esceit—I owe you a debt. Zenol does! I could ask him if he needs a warrior in his staff. I owe you gold and more.”
The [Doomguard] was steady now; only having a miniature rake inserted up a nostril had given him pause.
“Not for that, Silver Killer. When those above us use us like pieces on a board to war with each other, we do not blame and begrudge the other. We point a finger at the system and those who maneuver us. You and I are common cloth. [Gladiators]. Warriors. Comrades?”
She stared at him, then tightened her grip on his arm.
“Comrades.”
She met Pisces’ gaze as Beton smiled, then embraced his wife and lifted her up as she shouted and called for the family. Pisces mouthed at her.
He is so cool.
She nodded a few times. Tomiec flopped down on the floor, then threw up.
 
——
 
After the horrors of Yvlon’s broom-fingers, Pisces did feel like Ceria and Colth had missed a lot. True, they were visiting one of the world’s finest magical academies, but this?
This was nice. There were more important things than magic, sometimes. The Wandering Inn had taught him that.
The gratitude of Doomguard Beton was no small thing. Within moments of him being on his feet, the entire household and, indeed, street had turned out. It wasn’t like the Hemp-folk who were his neighbors were ignorant of his condition.
Again, it surprised Yvlon and Pisces to be treated like the saviors given Yvlon had accidentally infected Beton, but he had meant what he said to her. Now the food was being broken out, and a celebration was starting.
The Hemp-folk might not look nearly as gorgeous as their Silk counterparts, but their cooking did not fall behind as far as Pisces was concerned. If anything, it was far better on his stomach than the fancy food of the palace. He’d eaten a gazelle or something like that last night.
Eating Cloudpieces and sipping the cordial was welcome, especially when they brought out these really tasty sauced bites of white meat. Which Pisces was complimenting until someone told him it was crocodile. Everyone laughed as he choked on the food.
“But it doesn’t taste like—! It’s very good. Ahem!”
“Silks would never eat them. But the silly gators swim up the canals; you can find them even inland. Here, try this.”
“What is this giant chicken wing…?”
“Ostrich.”
Whereupon the largest egg he’d ever seen in his life was presented for his appetite. None of it was super gamey; Miss Coltora did wonders with the spices and sauces she had available. However, she did seem worried they wouldn’t like the food. When Pisces assured her it was good on his stomach—and he had housed a lot of food already—she relaxed.
“One cannot compare with the palace, of course, but if I could not satisfy the palates of adventurers, I would hang my hands up in disgrace! The richest ingredients are beyond any of Hemp. Saffron, rare meats, magical ingredients of any kind—”
“I know an [Innkeeper] whose cooking I am quite partial to, Miss Coltora, who does very well with basic ingredients. You shall find no complaints here. Yvlon?”
She was a bit more picky about her food. However, she was eating with good enough humor from the recognizable dishes and speaking with Beton.
“If I could pay you—”
Beton looked slightly harried, but it was again a mark of his stoicism that he only cracked after the eleventh time she brought it up.
“Agh, Silver Killer, enough. I have said my piece, and a [Doomguard] does not recant his words. Celebrate with me, my reclaimed cloth. Does my home look poor to you even though I am of Hemp?”
“No, of course not. It’s lovely.”
“Then you would surely not insult me by offering me coin. I, who was in service to a [Prince], have not been made pauper that quickly.”
His eyes glinted, and Yvlon shut up so fast that Pisces applauded silently. She edged over after a moment.
“He’s more persuasive when he actually talks.”
“One supposes Prince Esceit did not care for his conversational ability, more his ability to loom. Which he does very well.”
Now that he was standing, Beton was visibly high-level. Level 40? Pisces thought so. His chest was broader around than any other of the Hemp-folk, and despite having replaced his ‘battle cloth’, he still looked metallic.
His skin was beautifully black and shone like metal when he smiled, and he had enough muscle to make Pisces compare him to Eldertuin the Fortress. But his voice, despite being deep, was eloquent, like a hammer falling with precision. He was, then, impressive, but the [Necromancer]’s mind flashed to another being like him.
Azam’du. The Djinni’s skin had been darker yet, and he had been like a cloud bound to earth, chained and recalcitrant. But Pisces had to blink to dispel the image and remember the falling rainbow.
Ah, this land is bad for me. He wanted to be away, but not before he found his comrades. It was a reminder, though: this was one favor of Yvlon’s, solidly done. Onto the next.
As if he knew they were upon a mission of urgency, Beton took time to speak to the two Horns, even to the point where people wishing him well had to wait some time.
“I wish you’d met Colthei and Ceria. Perhaps, if time allows, we could introduce you?”
“Perhaps, but I am not welcome in the Palace, nor would I trouble you to come here. You must move quickly, you two, to avoid the entanglements of politics. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is a tangle of threads, and they will pull apart even Named-rank adventurers in the machinations of the Courts of Silk and Steel.”
It was the most direct warning Pisces and Yvlon had received—again, gratifying.
“We have Yisame’s favor.”
“A terrible thing, Silver Killer. Has it not brought you to a battle with the Champion of Monarchs already? And a war, before you left?”
“No, that was just…it was obligations.”
Yvlon grew troubled, and Beton glanced at her.
“Naturally, my employment to Prince Esceit was one of finance. I hold Prince Zenol in some esteem as a warrior. The Queen, of course, has our support.”
Murmurs of agreement, but Pisces realized that Beton had not said he was actually on the side of the Queen. But, then…
“Is there anyone in the palace you’d back?”
Beton thought about it as his eyes flicked to his plate, then smiled in a way Pisces couldn’t read.
“You are in good company, Adventurer Pisces. We are Hemp; we stand below the blows of the mighty lest we be caught up. I would be careful in your stead. That is my warning.”
Intriguing and fair. Pisces coughed.
“Having been born to a nation as a son of a peasant myself, I can relate. I was born in Ailendamus, you know, and my father taught the local [Lord]’s children.”
“Ah, another born in the shadows of greatness. Well met twice, then.”
Beton clasped hands with Pisces. When Yvlon stuck her hand out, they looked at her. She, the daughter of nobility, lowered her hand, slightly crestfallen. To which Beton laughed.
“It is no insult, just an acknowledgement of fact, Silver Killer. One can be fine comrades in arms and allies without this first connection.”
“And find no common ground with those who should be kin to you. Beton, you will have more guests soon who you should greet.”
Coltora added. The [Doomguard] sighed.
“True. It would be improper of me to waste my health by asking you for a rematch, Silver Killer.”
Everyone turned at that, and Yvlon’s lips quirked.
“Last time you let me win. I have to admit, I wanted to know who would win if we really fought. Your class is fascinating.”
“A mystery that will have to endure until Zeikhal blooms. You would not put my love back in bed, surely, Silver Killer.”
Coltora’s voice made Beton and Yvlon heave huge sighs. He winked at her.
“We would tear each other apart, and though we can both remake our bodies, it would be far simpler than how you fought the Champion of Monarchs, Silver Killer. I stand and fight. Though my class is to avert disaster. As so.”
He glanced around. Tomiec, the young [Cleaner] of such levels, was flirting with one of the young Stitch-women who’d come to the party. Beton looked around, dumped his plate onto Yvlon’s, and flicked it at Tomiec.
Everyone winced as the [Cleaner] whirled, blocked the plate with his broom with commendable reflexes, but it still knocked him flat on his ass. He was on his feet in a second, complaining.
“Clothsetter! Have I not come to your aid? Have I wronged you that much? I—”
Beton raised one eyebrow and nodded to the side. Tomiec turned—and said Stitch-woman’s boyfriend appeared out of the crowd. Tomiec closed his mouth and bowed.
“Is that, uh, doomguarding?”
Pisces was highly amused, and Beton smiled as Yvlon handed him her plate, and he turned back to his food.
“Simple doom. The kind anyone with eyes can see. Ideal for a [Bodyguard] or battle. The white Gnolls of Izril would have used my services well. But we do not venture far from Chandrar’s shores, we Stitch-folk. A shame; we have been away from great events.”
Fascinating, she had to admit. Yvlon coughed.
“How does one get a [Doomguard] class, Beton?”
“Ah, well, I was a simple [Stalwart Warrior] at first, but I had a secondary class. [Problem Solver], from when I was a young man taking odd jobs. I was never as lucky as some, but I averted several crises. From a handful of Skills, at Level 30 my class changed.”
“Another win for Colthei’s theory of multiple classes being advantaged.”
“Do Izrilians only prize a few? Any class is worth having, surely, even if it results in less levels to a central one. We do not know who we will be, even if we think we do. One might become a Pathtrader in life.”
Beton countered, and Pisces didn’t know the term.
“Pathtrader?”
“One who walks a class’ path but changes it. Imagine if you had been a Level 20 [Necromancer], adventurer, then changed it all to become a [Trader]. It is not common, but it does lead to unexpected results.”
Coltora put in, and Yvlon murmured.
“Ysara. I can see that. Though it’s not the most pleasant thing.”
“Changing one’s direction in life is full of uncertainties. We, who stick to our primary classes, are little better. I suspect I am never to find work in the palace; well and good. But I shall find work soon enough to avoid being conscripted to fight the King of Destruction. That would be a doom I cannot avoid.”
Another sobering reminder of realities for Hemp, but Beton smiled at Yvlon.
“A second reason to not begrudge being sick too much, Adventurer. Or I might have been sent to fight as a sign of Prince Esceit’s zeal.”
“I’d refuse. Mars cannot be beaten by the three of us.”
“One does not refuse a [Prince], Yvlon Byres. Unless they are the Silver Killer, of course. You are not made of cloth, so you are outside the tangle. Use it well, and consider how you are being used in turn.”
Well, it really felt like the two Hemp-folk were trying to tell them something. Pisces sipped from his drink and nodded.
“We intend to finish our business here, posthaste. Fret not, Doomguard, at least some of us are canny about politics in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. By which I mean Colth and the Heromakers of Hraace.”
He nodded, sighing and relaxing a bit.
“Fair enough. Now, if you need the services of reliable folk, if nothing as rich as what the palace can provide, the word of Doomguard Beton will open doors for you.”
Yvlon would have tried to offer something in return, again, but Pisces was of the opinion this was just something you had to accept and repay. Open generosity, like how the Gnoll tribes would feed you and welcome you in. Nothing like Izrilian sensibilities. He enjoyed it.
And there were other benefits for doing good deeds he hadn’t dreamed of. Such as Tomiec swaggering over.
“Before you go, I humbly interrupt you, Doomguard, Miss Coltora, adventurers, to say that my services—however oddly used and may the worms of the desert never witness it being used such twice—might be needed once more. Adventurer Pisces, you may wish to clean yourself before you set upon more journeys.”
Pisces glanced down at his robes, flustered. But he didn’t see any visible stains. And Tomiec was eying something just over Pisces’ shoulder. Beton raised his eyebrows.
“Do you insult our guests, Tomiec?”
“No, Doomguard. Rather, it is a thing of [Mages]. Adventurer Pisces has fallen for the same trick many of Wistram have. It has been my dubious honor to serve Magus Voltehreim, supreme amongst magic in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And to clean his many dimensions and paraphernalia. In doing so, I learned the folly of magic. Like [Cleanse]. Adventurer Pisces is not the filthiest I have seen by far; I have seen Wistram [Mages] visiting. But it would be well to cleanse himself before something grew of his personal aura-space.”
Pisces became increasingly confused, then alarmed by Tomiec’s words.
“My [Cleanse] spell? I use it to keep hygienic. What’s wrong with…”
Hadn’t he once heard it could be overused? But he didn’t get what that meant until Tomiec made reference to the doom that had once killed a city, the folly of all [Mages] who thought they could just vanish dirt. Yvlon stared at Pisces. Then saw Pisces gingerly flipping open a spellbook.
“Dimensional magic? That’s Tier 5 at least! I couldn’t bind even my own personal space of holding—well, I could now, in theory, but it’s not magic I’ve delved into.”
“Agh, and so it festers! Happily for you, I can clean even what is not apparent! [Broom: Nudge Doors]! You see, it opens many a place. Thus, I can open even what you have not made. Which means it shall expel most of it as there is no ‘space’ save what has accumulated. Thusly—”
Tomiec stepped back, and Yvlon saw Beton grab his wife and swing her back. The [Armsmistress] hurried away too and just got out of the ten foot radius when Pisces’ eyes went wide. He blinked—
Then exploded in what could be politely called a shower of dirt, grime, and filth. Only a year or two since he hadn’t known the spell long.
It still put everyone off their food. Tomiec grinned; he’d whirled his broom around to shield himself, but the [Necromancer] stood in the fallout, so horrified his mouth was open, which was a terrible mistake. Then Coltora smacked Tomiec’s head and called for water and a tub.
 
——
 
Pisces felt he hadn’t deserved that. He was grateful for Tomiec pointing out the—the error in his magic. But he couldn’t help but feel the young man had done that to get back at Yvlon.
Worse, it resulted in Pisces sitting in a filthy tub with water up to his waist someone had hauled, scrubbing himself. He was wearing underpants and a shirt since he refused to get naked, and covered in soap suds. The Stitch-folk were laughing at him. And staring.
He was scrubbing as fast as he could, red-faced, and Yvlon was shaking her head.
“I hope Ceria isn’t as bad. Dead gods, Valeterisa.”
Tomiec would counterlevel if he was near the Archmage of Izril when she had to deal with her own collected filth. The young man was scowling at the Stitch-girls admiring Pisces. He kept running his broom over the [Necromancer]’s back as Pisces swatted at him, to help the cleaning process.
Everyone was laughing at him when Pisces felt his nose tingle. He glanced around, hair filled with suds, and saw her.
A Stitch-girl, a bit younger than he was, perhaps, was striding through the crowd, pushing people waiting to greet Beton aside. She was big. Almost as big as Beton, and her skin had that familiar look to it.
Like Beton’s had been. Corded, rough, like scar tissue. Steel wool made to metal? Coltora’s head turned, and she exclaimed.
“Ashele!”
Beton turned, and the Stitch-girl halted, eying him, Yvlon, and Pisces. She stared at the [Necromancer] in the bathtub, utterly nonplussed. Then ignored him. Her eyes flicked to Yvlon’s arms, and she almost smiled. Then her face became impassive, and she spoke, arms folded.
“I heard you were cured, Father. Though you deserved it for selling yourself to royalty, at least you won’t waste away in bed. Is this her? The Silver Killer?”
She jerked her chin at Yvlon. Beton sighed.
“My cloth is not yours to wear, Daughter. Let alone share.”
He glanced at some of the other Stitch-folk who had followed Ashele, and Pisces saw Stitch-folk, all her age, all with the same skin. Most stepped back in front of the Doomguard’s stare, bowing slightly, but Ashele just sneered.
“Your cloth is wasted, beloved coward of a father.”
“Ashele! You will not speak to your father so. And you will remove your cloth and repent your ways before you call down fire upon yourself and everyone you think you help.”
Coltora glanced at Yvlon and Pisces, and the two adventurers got the distinct impression they shouldn’t be here. Pisces began washing himself off even faster; Yvlon just smiled.
“Miss Ashele? I apologize for any inconvenience I’ve caused your father. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the Silver Killer, but the truth is…”
Ashele listened for half a second before recognizing the now-infamous words and interrupted Yvlon.
“She’s mad as any other adventurer. Useless to the cause.”
“Not everyone in life revolves around your goals, or any other cause, Ashele. The Horns of Hammerad are upon their quests. Will you not celebrate my good health?”
Beton’s voice was mild, and he didn’t glance at Yvlon, but Pisces saw Coltora’s fingers twitch, and several people around her peeked at him and Yvlon. Tomiec was hesitating, looking between Beton and his daughter, and Pisces thought—
Drat. I wish Colth were here. Or Delitandra.
This meant something, and he had suspicions, but Ashele just turned away.
“I’d thought months of calling for help and seeing none of your privileged masters remembering your name would do aught. But I was wrong.”
She went to storm off but was surprised when Beton grabbed her arm. He was quick. She twisted, but he just spoke, intent.
“Ashele. You do not have dispensation to wear that cloth or thread. If you are arrested while wearing my cloth, they will send you against the King of Destruction.”
“I don’t fear them or him.”
“You should. You are not ready. If you cannot even break my grip, you have no chance at all beyond burning at a stake.”
She was squirming, putting a hand on his arm, but she couldn’t break his grip. Another Stitch-girl strode forwards.
“We are strong together, Doomguard, and in spirit, we will not be beaten!”
“Spirit is not strength of levels or flesh, Narive. Mark me, all of you. Whomever you are speaking to, there are wiser heads filled with less dangerous cloth. Stay. Listen. This is not a conversation for the streets, but one held indoors, in peace.”
He spoke to the group, and a few hesitated, but Ashele tore free—with a Skill, Pisces thought. He was putting on his robes as Beton let go and her arm twisted around.
“I have had years of this argument. Enough. To your health and all those made of plain cloth, Father. And to you, adventurers—nothing but curses so long as you serve the masters of Silk.”
She glared at Pisces and Yvlon. He felt like he hadn’t deserved that. She stared at him as he rose, robes sopping wet in his filthy bathtub. He had one reply; they were moving away, so Pisces shot in the dark.
“I would venture a guess that secrecy and subterfuge matter for everyone’s sake, Miss Ashele. Your father is eminently correct that trouble might not find you, but it will find your family and friends. I am, of course, speaking from experience. But tell me: this is not about slavery, is it?”
He asked the stupid question as she wavered. Ashele frowned at him as Beton’s eyes snaked to Pisces, and then she jerked her head.
“Not all chains are worn as openly as the ones you cut, Scourge. Look around. Ask anyone not in the palace, and you’ll see.”
Then she stormed off. Pisces rubbed at his chin and saw Tomiec staring after Ashele out of the corner of his eyes.
She was Level 30, he was sure. Not Beton’s level but like Tomiec—he’d sensed her. Come to that, her mother might be Level 30 as well, just not in a combat class.
Pisces noted how Coltora instantly came over to pull the teen aside, and Beton himself turned.
“Not every battle in Nerrhavia’s Fallen needs adventurers to fight. Nor needs fighting at this moment. It seems I have unpleasant work to do, as well as pleasant. I apologize, adventurers, but it is family and thread.”
“Not at all, Beton. What was that all about?”
Yvlon smiled at him. He eyed Pisces. The [Necromancer] shrugged in reply. He never knew if Yvlon was acting or just waiting to hit something.
 
——
 
In this case, it was genuine ignorance. Yvlon frowned at Pisces.
“Class struggles?”
“Hemp being conscripted for the war with the King of Destruction. They are almost entirely Hemp-based armies fighting his forces. He is advancing very slowly, because Nerrhavia’s Fallen can field so many armies.”
“But he smashes them. It’s boring, according to his Seven.”
“Exactly. But a boring war for the King of Destruction still means countless Hemp being killed, maimed, or sold as [Slaves]. Putting together some of Beton’s words, and it’s clear he feels like the commonfolk of Ailendamus might. Though they were never as resentful of the nobility as the Hemp are here.”
Yvlon, as the noble herself, didn’t get a lot of it. But she strode on.
“Hmm. Well, Beton’s right. It’s nothing to do with us, and Yisame hasn’t mentioned any problems with the other Stitch-folk castes.”
“Well, she would not, would she, Yvlon?”
The [Armsmistress] frowned—then changed the subject.
“It’s like the Fox Beastkin. We helped Beton, you cleaned yourself; we call that a win and move on. We have to get to Ksmvr. I’m afraid we won’t be able to repay all our debts, Pisces. Beton being so sick…just another reason that Prince Esceit deserves a beating.”
“I almost wish he’d agreed to you challenging him.”
Yvlon smiled slightly.
“He’s not that stupid, alas. But he is feuding with Zenol, and we owe him too. Do you think that if I figured out a way to cause an incident and killed him, we’d get away with it?”
Pisces tripped on his wet robes. Several Hemp people turned their heads and then instantly pretended not to have heard and hurried down the streets. He stared at Yvlon. Her face was calm. Pisces’ mouth worked. Then he bit back a shout and thought.
He didn’t ask if Yvlon was serious. He just regarded her, engaged the question, and his chest grew cold.
“Let’s assume you did kill him in a duel in the coliseum or just if you managed to create a justification, Yvlon. What’s the difference between you and Ceria?”
Yvlon bit her lip and slowed. She checked her arms, which had the beautiful filigree that Elena had helped her design and memorize. Pisces saw it stained with blood for a second, and Yvlon flexed her hands.
“We didn’t talk about it. She might have been right, but she did it like it was the circlet. What’s the difference? I prefer a fight, Pisces. That’s fairer. If I’d killed the Champion of Monarchs before he surrendered, I don’t think I’d have lost sleep over it.”
“Prince Esceit’s no Champion of Monarchs, Yvlon. Is a fight different from a coldblooded execution?”
“He has bodyguards, artifacts—”
“It’s a fight he can’t win, ever.”
Yvlon frowned at Pisces and stood in the now-empty streets, eyeing him.
“Anything could kill me, Pisces. Even with the Ring of Siphon Barriers, the wrong piercing arrow or lucky hit does me in.”
He understood what she meant, but Pisces’ reply was slow.
“That was what we could say when we were Level 30, Yvlon. But imagine if Mars said that to you. ‘Anything could kill me’. If you and Prince Esceit fight, no matter what, he dies. Is that not execution?”
She went walking down the street for a second before returning.
“All I know is what he’s done to Zenol and how he treated everyone else. It’s not pleasant, but I recognize an enemy, and I can’t fight him with words or influence, Pisces. Berr says…”
He interrupted her again, a bit impatiently.
“I want to know what Yvlon thinks, Yvlon. The coliseum was the right thing to do. I went with you instead of telling Ceria or Colth because I agreed. But we may have gone too far.”
She studied him, then nodded slowly. She jerked a thumb, and they walked on back towards the palace, but languidly. He felt like she was listening to him, not just getting mad, and that was better than Izril. But still—there was a line between them, and Yvlon tried to bridge it. But she had no convenient Skills.
“We can only continue on, Pisces. We’re full of mistakes, even if these ones feel different.”
“I know, but we’re not working like we were, even in the Crossroads of Izril, Yvlon. It’s not just this morning. Can’t you feel it?”
She nodded.
“I can. I miss Ksmvr. He’d have kept us together.”
“Me too.”
Silence. They thought of Ksmvr and Vofea, and Pisces felt that urgency rise. Then Yvlon jerked her head.
“So, thoughts on killing Prince Esceit?”
He sighed. She was like a dog with a bone with ideas, and in this case, he was glad she hadn’t made up her mind already.
“No. Everything we do must be within the limits of sanity, Yvlon. Yes, we got away with the Coliseum of Monarchs. Barely. We can break rules, but not threaten everything. And killing a [Prince]? That threatens the status quo, and believe me, if we do that, the Court of Silks and Steel will retaliate. We might already have [Assassins] after us.”
“So we get a dozen more—”
“Break too many convention and they won’t send mere [Assassins], Yvlon. That’s when they send Djinni. Which they won’t do unless they think we’re completely out of line. There are rules, written and unwritten.”
“…Ah. We probably can’t beat the ones that almost killed the King of Destruction. So that’s the way it is?”
Pisces conjured an illusory chessboard, made two pieces in his and her image, and placed them on it.
“We are pieces on the grand game of politics, Yvlon. Don’t topple the board or the true pillars. You came close the other day; we must present ourselves as somewhat flawed, allay suspicions. I imagine that’s part of why Ceria pulled her stunt this morning. It allows Yisame to assert control over her. I’m just guessing, of course; she might have just wanted the books.”
Yvlon was nodding thoughtfully. Then she smiled.
“Do you think, sometimes, we just do silly and stupid things because we’re not as smart as you, Pisces?”
The question left him genuinely astounded.
“I may pretend to some degree of sophistication, but I don’t think I outwit anyone, Yvlon. Colth is far more knowledgeable about Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Chandrar than I am.”
She waved this off.
“Colth has been here, and it’s his job to know things. Ceria’s got her circlet, and she was already intelligent. But you just like to know things. Ksmvr and I can barely keep up. Alright, you’ve convinced me. No killing [Princes]. And we did good today. What’s next? Your mission? Tiqr, for that dratted sword? What about your friends?”
Pisces hesitated.
“I do have an obligation to them, Yvlon. But I don’t wish to involve anyone in trouble—”
She reached out, arm elongating, and grabbed his shoulder. Yvlon’s eyes were calm, blue, and serious.
“Pisces, I’m your backup. You came with me today. Anytime, anywhere, you want to find your friends? I’m coming with you, Roshal or [Assassins] be damned. We may be having a rough patch as a team, but we’ve not forgotten that.”
His back felt lighter, as it always did when she said ridiculous things like that. Pisces might feel the shadow of Roshal on him, the chains of dead men around his feet, even with his class gone, but with the Silver Killer behind him? He sighed.
“No. We haven’t forgotten. Thank you, Yvlon. In that case…I will want to go eastwards and find them, but I have only a few names and clues. I have something else to tell you.”
He cast spells, though he feared they might be eavesdropped on by superior magics. No, he had anti-scrying protections, and you had to risk it. Yvlon glanced at him.
“Something about Beton’s daughter?”
He leaned over and whispered in her ear, using her hair as a shield to hide his lips.
“No. I received a message the other day, Yvlon. Elena knows. It was from an unknown sender. It said that the second Relic to Ceria’s circlet, an amulet, lies in Chandrar. The clue is in the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes. The letter told me not to let her find it.”
She didn’t react, but her arms seemed to ripple as she turned her head. Then murmured back.
“Thank you for telling me. Why did you let her go?”
“I didn’t think it was likely she’d find it in a single day. My goal is to keep us away from there.”
“…Agreed. But who sent that?”
“I don’t know. But I’d bet the inn.”
They grimaced at each other. Whenever in doubt, just put The Wandering Inn in there and assume it was like the original creator of the circlet had become penpals with Mrsha. Yvlon sighed.
“Well, I hope we have an adventure, then. Good work, Pisces.”
She patted him on the shoulder, then sniffed.
“…You forgot to wash your hair properly. It reeks.”
He sighed gustily and resisted the urge to cast [Cleanse]. Nothing was good and sacred in this world anymore.
 
——
 
Ceria and Colth returned to the palace that evening empty-handed. Not empty-headed; Ceria described the library of a Hundred Thousand Tomes to Pisces, and he was properly envious.
“Stacks of books, Pisces. You have these huge ladders—some poor bastard fell off one. Colth had to do a flying dive to save them from dying.”
“[Featherfall] spells are standard over there, even for apprentices. And there are spells.”
“What, for anyone to read? What about having to win a master’s approval to learn the spells?”
Ceria and Colth smiled at Pisces, a touch sadly in Ceria’s case.
“Nothing like that. You just can’t access higher-ranking spells until the instructors think you won’t blow yourself up with the spellbook. You, personally, are fine. Tier 1-4 magic is just…available if you’re a member of the academy.”
“What, no personal spellbooks?”
“We had to bribe our way into seeing the better stuff, but no, Pisces. It’s just free.”
That stung Pisces, who remembered how closefisted Wistram was with its magic, until Colth added a detail.
“Free for a member. We’re guests of the crown, so we had permission, but it was Cotton or Silk. No Hemp. And remember, Wistram’s in decline. If the upper floors were open, I bet Tier 1-4 magic would have been free and the masters would be fighting over the higher-tier spellbooks.”
That did put it into perspective, and that comment…Pisces glanced at Yvlon.
“You might have taken something from visiting Beton. We didn’t see much else, honestly. Fascinating sights in the city, but we didn’t find anything worth buying.”
“Except this.”
Yvlon had a comb for scratching pets, which also de-fleaed them, that she’d bought for Ksmvr. Colth listened to the account of meeting Beton, and Ceria stopped eating.
“You put a little metal rake up his nose? Dead gods, Yvlon. That’s genius.”
“Thank you.”
“Ahem. Some of us are eating?”
Elena seemed a bit less happy about the description as she chewed down her meal. She was wincing a bit, and Colth eyed her.
“How was the palace?”
“Less fun than I thought, but I did good work. I’ll report in when we’re not, um, surrounded.”
At this, Elena glanced around, and Pisces was reminded of where they were.
The Court of Silks was almost always in session, and the huge, spacious gathering had places where you could sit and eat, like the ‘private’ booths. Everyone was sitting around a round table on couches as servants placed down food and bowed away. Pisces didn’t see any [Slave] collars on them, and he was on his best behavior, wary of making a scene. However, the [Queen] sat upon her throne, and the court was just…social.
It didn’t always have someone kneeling before the throne. It just was, and he saw people talking together. Members of the Court of Steel, dignitaries, and yes, even Prince Zenol and Prince Esceit, though the two were distinctly enemies.
Colth nodded at Elena as he settled back in his seat, and Pisces worried he might have revealed too much about Beton, but Colth just winked at him, casual as could be.
“We’re not rocking the ship at this moment. I got a hint from Yisame’s people that she might have our quest. Fancy a trip to the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“What, like a plebian, Colth?”
Ceria turned her nose up ostentatiously, and Pisces snorted as Yvlon sighed, but spirits weren’t bad at the moment, despite his reservations. Delitandra put in.
“It might do you well to be seen and act as adventurers, Horns. You have the smell of the palace about you when you are truly a Gold-rank team. The whiff of the crown is best kept at that, lest it grow overbearing. Better to be a useful scorpion than part of the great tangle of politics.”
There it was again, the same advice Beton had given them. Yvlon pursed her lips.
“Everyone wants us to keep out of politics. Ceria’s the one who keeps getting us tangled.”
“You attacked the Coliseum of Monarchs—”
Delitandra stared at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] pointed at Ceria.
“And she got us involved in a job.”
“Adventurer Yvlon, do you think fighting the Coliseum wasn’t politics? Your lessons—”
The Heromakers of Hraace stared at Yvlon until they saw her lips quirk. Elena snorted, and Pisces grinned. Delitandra relaxed and fanned her face.
“When I return to Hraace, and the Mentorship judges my deeds, I shall pen a poem on the trials of dealing with the Silver Killer. Truly, I had thought I did well to escape the Pedagogia’s grasp. Little did I know a challenge greater than teaching the King of Destruction had befell me.”
“Well, you’re not teaching us anything at the moment. Where are our lessons? I could have used some training.”
Yvlon seemed determined to murder the Heromakers today. Delitandra drew herself up, fanning her face, and pointed.
“No? Then look and listen. You have refocused the Court of Silks and drawn attention. Not just you; Cognita Truestone, Barelle the Bard? Some of Nerrhavia Fallen’s powerful figures eschew these courts, for it is only part of where power lies. But here they come. Who is that?”
She pointed at a rather solitary old man, who had a clean shaven chin, youthful features—oddly youthful for how Pisces suddenly felt like he was old—and the richest and most magical robes that Pisces had ever seen. But that was common in the Court of Silks, and Pisces had tuned out most magic that flowed everywhere.
Yet these robes were a hazard. Twelve feet long were the hems, so trailing that they appeared to be a midnight river. Black, until streams of color rose upwards and twined together, like snakes, and rested on his massive epaulets.
But the cloth didn’t seem to weigh on him. Nor did it truly fit the younger man’s face. The only clue Pisces had was…
“His eyes. They look old.”
Yvlon commented, and Ceria frowned.
“He’s got robes fit for an [Archmage]. But no magical signature. None. It’s like staring at a rock.”
That was the thing that put Pisces’ back up, he realized. Everyone had magic in them, just a bit. But this fellow was an absolute neutral. Like he had none. Or—more likely—he was hiding it. Colthei just murmured.
“That would be the Magus of Falling Skies. The highest-levelled spellcaster in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Remember the [Meteor Storm]? That’s him.”
Ceria and Pisces focused on the man harder. Him? But he was a Stitch-man; he could change his face. The youthful body clearly belied his age. His eyes…
They felt like they were refracted inwards. Like Pisces was staring into an optical illusion. As if there were a room behind his eyes, a cube of gold in three dimensions shaped out of his irises.
It unsettled Pisces, and those eyes passed over the entire Court of Silks. Bored. Ceria shivered.
“Okay. I didn’t cast any kind of appraisal spell on him, but my circlet just told me he’s Bad News. Capitalized.”
Delitandra lifted her hands, cautious.
“As well you do not. He is known to cast spells back for slights. He would be a neutral party. See how no one dares approach him?”
Indeed, even the Horns usually got accosted by the nobles, but no one was swanning up to the Mage of Falling Skies. It seemed he called to you; he crooked a finger, and a [Chancellor] instantly abandoned a conversation and strode over. A goblet vanished from a servant’s tray and appeared in his hand.
“Whoa. Pinpoint teleportation. Think he’s holding a grudge for the Death Zone we made?”
“I doubt he even remembers us, Ceria. Which is good; he outclasses Larracel.”
Colthei seemed mildly wary of the man, which made Pisces glad that Yvlon didn’t get up to introduce herself. The only comment the Silver Killer made was—
“How does no one trip over those robes? Wearing them must be a nightmare.”
“I bet he fries whomever trips over his robes. And I bet they’re so enchanted it’s worth it.”
Elena muttered. Delitandra nodded and turned her finger.
“In order of trouble, he would be at the top, but he is famously mercurial. Little can interest a man of his powers, and the [Queen] herself would hesitate to make him an enemy or use his services unless at need. We shall leave him as a Giant to sleep or avoid his steps. Of the beings who might actually deal with you—here is another important man, if not in such enduring prominence. See.”
She turned her finger, and there was a man who was the exact opposite of the Mage of Falling Skies. He stood in the center of a huge crowd of people…juggling. At first, Pisces took him for a performer, but when he realized what the man was juggling, he realized it wasn’t knives or balls, but…potions.
“Which one shall I demonstrate? An Elixir of Great Vitalities? A Potion of Thunderheads? I would set the capital to lightning, if not rain! Whoops—aha!”
He nearly dropped a huge vial with a stormy, dark blue liquid within and zigzagging bolts of lightning streaking through it. There was a scream, and he winked at a palace servant and then produced another vial.
“Or merely a Potion of Infatuation? Pure romance, for two days and nights, with you and any other? For you?”
He placed it in the servant’s hands, and there was a clamor at once—then the [Alchemist] turned and produced a second vial.
“Who would like another?”
He had every noblewoman and nobleman jockeying for one instantly. Pisces raised his brows. A Potion of Infatuation?
“Aren’t those illegal in Izril, Ceria, Colth?”
The [Supporter] nodded, baring his teeth as he whispered back.
“Highly. Even if it provokes genuine infatuation, it’s a serious crime to spike someone with them. Not in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, it seems. It is an alchemy capital of the world.”
“Gross.”
Elena wrinkled her face up and eyed the man. Like the Mage of Falling Skies, Pisces bet he was older than he appeared. He seemed like a man in his early forties, a dark black beard trimmed short across his chin, eyes sparkling with mirth. He was very good-looking, but that could be said of almost any Stitch-man made of Silk, as he clearly was.
The difference was…the Mage of Falling Skies was a good example. He might have handsome features, but he stood like a lump, speaking dispassionately, clearly bored, with little beyond his clothing to add to his posture or bearing.
This [Alchemist] moved like a performer. Cupping a chin with his fingers, sliding across the floor, arms moving in flourishes. Too much for Pisces’ tastes, but with a charisma. When he spoke, it sounded like you should listen.
However, for all that, he had both a group of hangers-on who wanted his potions and quite a number of people who were pointing at him and smirking. The [Alchemist] pretended not to notice, but he was playing towards an audience.
“Interesting. Who’s that, Delitandra?”
“Why, none other than Master Therel, one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s greatest alchemists. Famous for his achievements in alchemy—the Flashfreeze Orb was his creation. Also, known philanderer. Lover of ten thousand women. I believe the number is higher these days.”
Pisces’ jaw dropped. Ten thousand—Colth raised his brows.
“So that’s Master Therel. I’ve used Flashfreeze Orbs. They’re Gold-ranker gear. Pretty potent for modern-day alchemy. Didn’t someone cut off his dick and stitch it to a camel’s backside?”
Ceria spat out her drink, hooting with laughter. Delitandra and the Heromakers laughed, and one of them whispered.
“He got it back, but only after nearly a week of chasing it, to hear the stories! That is Therel. He is not as famous as he was in his prime; note how he has as many detractors as allies? To hear it, his wife took much of his riches with her, and since his rivals stole his inventions, he is barely making ends meet. Doubtless, he has come here to revive his fortunes.”
“Unless he’s got a bunch of healing potions up his sleeves, I doubt we need his services that much. He looks like he’d be annoying to deal with.”
Yvlon was cool on the man, which was unfortunate—he seemed to be coming this way. Pisces groaned.
“Why does he want us?”
Ceria shrugged, eyes alight with amusement.
“We’re the most popular team in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Pisces. Maybe he wants us to use his potions. Cheer up! We might get free samples.”
He did perk up at that. Alchemist Therel did indeed call out halfway towards the Horns.
“Ah, there is the Silver Killer herself! Horns of Hammerad, who stand in Her Majesty’s favor—you would do well to heed a poor [Alchemist]’s words! For when one reaches Named-rank levels, they require true potions and preparations for battle! Who else, then, but the man whose potions armed Torreb the Undefeated and have been used by the King of Destruction and other champions of Chandrar?”
His voice was carrying, loud, and Pisces groaned as he saw Yisame’s head turn. Eyes fell on them, and Master Therel was trying to make a scene, clearly. Since there were about six such events a day at least, many elected to go on chattering, but people turned. Pisces began shovelling food into his mouth.
Like hell he was going to deal with whatever came next on an empty stomach. Ceria was rising, an impish smile on her face, and he hoped she didn’t cause trouble. But rather to everyone’s surprise, before Therel could get to them, someone stepped forwards.
“Aye, the Horns of Hammerad and great adventurers should use the services of a master of alchemy! A pity, then, you chose to speak up. I doubt the Silver Killer is looking for a Love Potion. Are you trying to sell her polish for her arms? A Potion of Warmth for the Ice Squirrel? Your best works fit Silver-rankers, Therel!”
The [Alchemist] spun on his heels, face clouding with fury.
“Who dares insult my work—ah. Apprentice Shedrel. Cowering behind your master’s reputation. What, is the great Alchemist of Ten Thousand Trivialities too afraid to face me in person?”
A knife appeared in one of his hands, and he pointed it at the younger Stitch-man, who stood wearing a more ornamental version of Octavia’s clothing. His vest was festooned with pockets which held glowing bottles, and he had on glass goggles on his head. There was even a small pack on one shoulder, clearly there more for the appearance of it; he looked like what you imagined if you thought of Saliss and never met the Drake.
A battle-alchemist, a travelling concocter of magic. Therel, by contrast, was closer to a nobleman in tall boots and a stylish red coat that swept around him. But it was Apprentice Shedrel—who was a full [Alchemist], Pisces guessed, at least Level 30—who sneered back.
“My master, Alchemist Patsiuda, for you Horns of Hammerad, is the Alchemist of Ten Thousand Creations, the best [Alchemist] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and, dare I claim it, the world! Her creations serve adventurers far and wide. Nor would I stain the floors of the Court of Silks with your blood, which would not be useful in the simplest tonic.”
“I take your words and challenge you to put them against me. My alchemy has melted more than one challenger to dust, and your master is nothing but a rank amateur who was begging at my doorstep a decade past. I turned her away for being a waste of talent!”
Therel motioned with the dagger, and Shedrel sneered more as he yanked a vial out of a holster on his right arm. He raised it.
“My master is in her prime and only avoided your tutelage because she had better uses of her time than jumping into your bed like every apprentice! Such as surpassing you, Therel. Look. Here I hold one of her creations: the Elixir of Gorgon’s Form.”
He uncorked it with one thumb and drank it—and his form shifted. Pisces blinked, and a Gorgon rose over Therel, scales flashing. His clothing fell to the ground, and Ceria whistled.
“Whoa. I’ve seen Saliss do that, but that’s top-tier alchemy.”
“Alchemist Patsiuda is considered the best. She has dozens of apprentices. Therel…”
Delitandra’s voice was a bit too loud. Therel flushed.
“You think a simple polymorph potion makes you dangerous, boy? Let us dance.”
He seemed ready to fight, and Pisces recalled that [Alchemists] were known to fight in the very streets. Octavia had talked about going over to beat another [Alchemist]’s brains out for a slight; he’d thought it was hyperbole.
Not so. But Shedrel flicked a second vial into his clawed hands and hissed.
“I would hate to kill you before Her Majesty’s eyes. But if I must—here is a Vial of Molten Snakes my master herself brewed. Liquid lava that hunts. It can kill any three Manticores you name before it expires. And what do you have, Therel? A Potion of Burning Rays? It won’t even scratch my scales.”
It was faint, but Pisces thought he saw Therel lick his lips. Colth agreed. He whispered.
“Lot of magic in that vial. This apprentice came to play. And Gorgons are resistant to spells. He came with a counter.”
There was some kind of rhythm to this, though. It wasn’t a pure street fight, Pisces realized. The murmuring voices died down as music rose. The court musicians were playing? Therel strutted right, circling the Gorgon. He brushed at his robes. And his voice took on a different cadence. Faster? He spoke past Shedrel, to the crowd as much as the apprentice.
“Boy—you aren’t the first, you won’t be the last. I’ll melt you in the time it takes to wipe my ass. I’ve seen the best, and your master isn’t even close—do you know how I know? She isn’t here. She’s sent you and a bag full of tricks. How rich. You’re nothing in my eyes. Not a surprise. You don’t have a chance, so I will let you walk away. Go home, boy, find the other no-namers, second-rates, and play. Not here, not in Tyrant’s Rest. You stand before me, Therel the Incandescent, best of the best.”
He whirled the dagger around his fingers, and the one vial became five, held between his fingers, each a different color and type, and he was nodding to the right and left, a confident smile on his face. Pisces—blinked.
Was that poetry? It was close, and he saw Delitandra and the Heromakers nodding along. A murmur of approval rose, but everyone was clearly waiting for Shedrel. The Gorgon had listened impassively to Therel, and now he lowered the vial in his hands. Tossed them down to murmurs. Therel wavered, and tensed—but he hesitated, and then Shedrel replied.
“Old man. It makes me sad to see you here, all filled with fear. Do you think my master’s hidden away? She’s just too busy, sad to say. Busy making alchemy for all the adventurers who’ve come to call. Who’s at your shop? No one at all. Not [Beggars] on the streets. No mistresses between your sheets—and oh, your poetry puts every courtesan I know to sleep. You’re washed and out of date. You’ve come here for attention—too little, too late. If you want me to put your sad reputation to rest? I can. But don’t do that. Don’t play to be the best. You’re not. For your sake, old man, walk away. Live, tail between your legs, another day. Go pretend you’ve got another camel to chase. That’s my piety towards the old. I rest my case.”
He bowed, then held up his claws as he slithered about, showing everyone he had no vials. He didn’t need any. Therel’s face reddened, and when Shedrel turned to face him, it went silent. Dead silent.
He’s going to throw and fight. Or…Pisces was tensed. He didn’t know if the next thing he’d see would be explosions until there was a pounding sound. The throne.
Neither Yisame nor her interpreter spoke, but a lesser member of her circle.
“Her Imperial Majesty is not inclined to see one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s finest [Alchemists] melted upon her courts. If the [Alchemists] declaim they are the finest, let them provide their services to the brave adventurers here.”
Instantly, both [Alchemists] bowed, and there was a sigh. A relaxation.
No duel. Instead, Shedrel shed his form and emerged, a nude Stitch-man who stood behind a towel, dressing himself swiftly as people came over to applaud him or ask about his vials. Therel stepped away, throwing his head back to laugh in Shedrel’s direction, then to speak to someone he knew, slapping a back, acting confident. But Pisces eyed the larger crowd around Shedrel and knew who’d won that.
Colth agreed.
“Bad look. The moment the apprentice faced down Therel, he lost. Even if he won, he just beat his opponent’s apprentice, and if he had fought for his life, that would prove he was weak. Plus, Shedrel had him dead to rights. Yisame saved him from losing face. He might have even signalled someone he needed a favor.”
“I liked that. What was that? The speaking-poetry.”
Yvlon was tilting her head, more intrigued by the wordplay. Delitandra smiled.
“Verbal sparring before the knives fly. Common in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You’ve truly never heard the like?”
“I have. It’s rapping. Or close enough.”
Elena was familiar with it, of course. Earthers seemed to have an example of everything. Pisces just waited for either [Alchemist] to approach, but they were playing to their bases.
“Do we not get free samples of alchemy?”
He was disappointed when Delitandra favored him with a shake of the head.
“It would make it seem as if Therel were scurrying over to us, and Shedrel would very much like us to come to him. There are other adventurers in the room; they will go secure their favor first.”
“But free potions—”
“We can just buy them, Sniffmaster Pisces.”
“But free, Colth.”
The [Supporter] patted Pisces on the shoulder. Pisces knew that his team had money, but he hated the idea of wasting potions. Magic was free, and once you used a potion, that was it. He was mostly familiar with mana, healing, and stamina potions. Did they need alchemy? He knew Colth would take them if no one else, and Ksmvr loved alchemy.
But not every adventurer subscribed to Pisces’ model of fiscal responsibility. In fact, a team practically charged Shedrel, shoving people aside, and he met them with open arms.
“Ah, the redoubtable Conquerors of Rameid! What brings the northern giants of Gold-rank adventuring so far south?”
Ceria’s head turned, and Yvlon closed her eyes. Then a loud voice cut over the babble.
“Why, we were invited, of course. We heard a fellow Gold-rank team were making a splash, and we thought we’d show them what real Chandrarian adventuring was like.”
“Ah. And there’s the competition. I blame you for this, Yvlon.”
Ceria stuck a fork into a burrito and began to munch. Yvlon herself sighed. Pisces eyed her.
“You know them?”
The Conquerors of Rameid were a four-person team who were mixed Stitch-folk and Human. Yvlon shrugged.
“They were in Medain, and I don’t think they took to me. Perric used them to get us to go back to the capital. Apparently, they conquered Medain’s biggest dungeon? How did they get here?”
“Doubtless, someone’s decided to counter Yisame’s new pet adventuring team with their own. They’re not the only adventurers in the room. Heads up. They’re going to start something. Yvlon, don’t play into their games.”
Raava, the Stitch-woman who was speaking, was clearly the captain of the Conquerors. She was haggling for Shedrel’s potion and glancing at the Horns.
Rather to her displeasure, all the Horns were eating. Pisces watched as Therel slunk around the room, searching for other adventurers. There were clearly a few allowed in the Court of Silks, but Therel definitely was on the outs.
“I wonder what Saliss would say about all of these [Alchemists]. He studied here.”
“Think he ever did that poetry-duelling?”
Ceria smiled, trying to imagine it. Pisces shuddered.
“If he did, I pity the fools who went up against him. No wonder he’s so good at dodging. So what’s this about Yisame’s quest?”
“Oh, that. She’s going to tell us she put up a request in the Adventurer’s Guild. As a <Quest>, no less.”
He brightened up immediately.
“Aha! A <Quest>? We haven’t done one of those in a while! All of ours were rather fraught too; a lower-stakes one would be welcome indeed. Excellent! Elena, do you want to come with us?”
“Uh…how deadly is it? I can definitely stay in the palace, and if there are monsters anywhere around, with respect, I don’t really want to risk it. I’ve been in danger, but I don’t exactly have the Skills or reflexes to survive if things get bad.”
“See? That’s sensible. That’s why I like her.”
Colth pointed at Elena and handed some sauce over. Delitandra cleared her throat.
“We are able to both record your deeds and hold our own, Adventurer Colth—”
“You’re not invited.”
“Ah.”
Out of the corner of his eyes, Pisces saw Alchemist Therel moving around the room, greeting people he knew, trying to engage the more powerful people in conversation. He didn’t seem to have much luck, or they just didn’t need his alchemy. Which—fair. You didn’t need alchemy all the time, especially given how much it probably cost.
Therel stopped just once, though, as a huge trailing mass of robes swept out of the Court of Silks. The Mage of Falling Skies had no time, it appeared, for anything here. Everyone got out of his way, but he halted, just once.
Nodded to Therel, who turned, spoke to him with a weak half-smile. The Mage of Falling Skies moved on, and Therel kept circulating. That was all Pisces noted.
Well, that and every adventurer in the room not really liking his team. The Conquerors of Rameid were extolling their exploits and mentioning how a certain team was wanted back in Medain, only saved from wrath because they were the High King’s brides.
Yvlon seemed to have genuinely not heard a word they said…she was poking at a fried scorpion with more nerves than Pisces had seen in her the entire trip, and Ceria kept daring her to take a bite. But then Ceria glanced around.
“Hey, another Gold-rank team. There. See that trio? What’ve we done to them?”
A trio of adventurers were being fêted at another table, if less grandly than the Horns. Pisces turned and saw three Humans looking his way. Two were quite tanned; the third had naturally dark skin. Two young men, one young woman. One of the two young men had dark black hair dyed white, like a slash across his hair; the other was blonde and eating with a will. It was the young woman who was glaring. She had on robes, and Pisces identified her as a [Mage].
“Beats me. More competition? I don’t recognize them.”
Colth squinted, and Ceria got up.
“Let me see if I can tweak the Conquerors’ noses. I’m gonna play nice. Anyone want to say hi?”
Colth, Yvlon, and Pisces got up at once. They walked towards them as Ceria bounded over.
“Another Gold-rank team! Hello! I’m Captain Ceria of the Horns of Hammerad, and you are?”
The other adventurers got up—except the young woman, who folded her arms and glared. The one with blonde hair held out a hand, and Pisces noted he had a [Warrior]’s build. Muscled, in short. Though he had on far lighter armor than Pisces would have thought. A light shirt and pants, showing bare legs and arms instead of Colth’s all-leather gear.
“Oh, er, hello. We’re the Wildcards. A Gold-rank team, like yours. We just got made Gold-ranks, actually. We were invited to the capital, and it’s our first time in the exalted Court of Silks. I’m Leo, and this is Kusal. And Lareceina—Lareceina, say hello.”
He nudged the scowling [Mage], but she refused to even get up when Ceria shook her teammates’ hands.
“I’m not shaking hands with a murderer. I will greet the rest of you. Colthei the Supporter, Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer, Pisces the Bane.”
She nodded at them, and two of the Horns flushed at their silly names. Leo nudged Lareceina.
“Come on, Lareceina—they’re famous. From Izril?”
“And who’d I murder?”
Ceria wanted to know. Lareceina’s eyes flashed.
“The Champion of Monarchs? And the Master of the Coliseum! I’m surprised you all haven’t been assassinated yet. We can’t be too friendly with them, Leonardo. They’re part of the Queen’s faction, and she’s a cold-blooded killer.”
“Hey. I prefer ‘adventurer’. It’s a catchall term.”
Ceria’s voice was mild and untroubled in the face of the hostility. Pisces cleared his throat.
“We appear to have gotten off on the wrong foot. We just wished to greet fellow Gold-rankers. We haven’t met any in Chandrar before.”
Leo and Kusal were flustered, and Leo nudged Lareceina with his elbow.
“Absolutely. We don’t want to start anything. Lareceina, chill.”
“Well, we just wanted to say hi, but if your teammate doesn’t want to talk, maybe after she’s calmed down? I only murdered the guy yesterday. And he was gonna come for us.”
Ceria decided to disengage and motioned her team back. The Wildcards sat, but Lareceina called out.
“Watch your backs. No, that’s not a threat from me, Kusal. You cannot just go around murdering—”
They started arguing, and Pisces shook his head.
“Oh delightful Captain of mine, does it ever occur to you that we don’t have many friends among other adventurers?”
“We don’t know many teams, Pisces. But yeah…and the ones we do know are dead or on another continent. Fine. I take responsibility for that one. See anyone else who won’t jump down our throats?”
Ceria was casting around for another team they could at least say hi to. Pisces thought he saw other Gold-rankers, but it might have been they were bodyguards or just…independent. They were making their way back to their table when Colth’s head turned.
“Conquerors coming up. Yvlon—”
He flanked her as Pisces took her other side. The Silver Killer protested.
“I’m not going to murder them. They can’t be as annoying as Perric. Ceria, show them Perric’s crown.”
“Oh, good idea!”
Then Pisces and Colth were grabbing at Ceria as Raava stalked forwards with a crowd clearly hoping for more drama. He grabbed for Ceria, sneezed—and then whirled. So did Colth. Yvlon stopped walking towards Raava with her hand outstretched. She and Ceria turned and stared right with the rest of their team.
Pisces’ nose seemed to be acting as a detector of levels or things he found important. Which he wasn’t sure he liked. But unlike Beton—or the Mage of Falling Skies, who’d hidden his presence—this time, Pisces felt like something was physically attracting his attention.
Like gravity magic. When his eyes alighted on the figure who had just entered the Court of Silks, it felt like an explosion going off on his head. It was like a song.
“Who’s—that?”
Ceria rubbed her eyes and laughed, but her eyes flicked towards Pisces, Colth, and Yvlon, and the [Silversteel Armsmistress] began walking.
“She’s strong.”
“I think—I know her too. So the rumors were true. Heads up. That’s a monster, no matter how she looks.”
The Conquerors of Rameid saw the Horns instantly pivot and walk past them. And correspondingly—the Heromakers of Hraace leaned out of their booth and leapt up. Which made Elena glance up, and the attention that focused on the newcomer reflected off her. Interested people turned and grew disappointed instantly.
The smarter ones, like Prince Zenol, knew better than to judge by appearances. And when he peered around, Barelle the Bard smiled, just once, opened a little book, and produced a quill.
A strange adventurer had come to the Court of Silks, even by their standards. Because she didn’t look right.
It was like a midwife or mother had put on somewhat-damaged chainmail over enchanted leather armor and paid for the biggest club she could carry. It was nearly as tall as she was, and she rested it on the ground as she surveyed the room. That was the contradiction.
Everything in Pisces said she was high-level and dangerous. But she appeared almost homely. Her clothes? Cotton, he thought, and she could have been a Human mother in Liscor but for her equipment.
“Who is that?”
Colth didn’t need to answer. The [Herald], who announced people to the Court of Silks, was surprised by the sudden hush in the usually raucous room that ignored him. He cleared his throat, then spoke.
“Presenting, the Gold-rank adventurer! The only woman to attain Gold-rank the moment she became an adventurer in three decades since Mars the Illusionist herself—the daughter of Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]! Itkisa!”
Torreb’s daughter? As in Torreb the Undefeated? Ceria’s eyes slid to Colth.
“Isn’t he dead? At Pomle?”
“That’s right. His daughter. I heard a rumor she was strong. Of all his offspring, though, she never adventured. Never made a name for herself, and he has sons who’ve become Gold-rankers and [Generals]. But she—”
“She’s Level 40, isn’t she?”
Pisces saw the woman’s head turning, and Itkisa paused to bow to the throne. Then she nodded at Barelle and got a nod back. She was poised, despite the disappointed murmurs. A lot of the Court of Silks just saw her appearance, but Pisces remembered how blown away everyone, even Yvlon, had been at the celebrations.
The Court of Silks might not have been celebrating, but all this attention struck Itkisa, and she just stood there. When someone offered her a drink, she waved it away. Ceria squinted at the woman, confused.
“Her gear…it sucks. That’s a lot of damaged equipment. I don’t think that club has anything beyond a basic protection spell on it. Wasn’t Torreb rich?”
Colth scratched at his chin.
“He had a lot of offspring. She might not have gotten much. Where’s his famous club?”
Delitandra leaned over, eyes alight with interest as she also studied Itkisa.
“Vanished, the rumor goes. Along with his body. She was there when he died. They said Torreb died rather than fight the Strongest of Pomle. Well, well.”
The Horns of Hammerad saw Itkisa step forwards, after a moment, and greet Alchemist Therel, who had found her with a smile and, Pisces noted with jealousy, a free potion. She smiled at him and seemed to know him. Following his example, people who had known Torreb chose to greet the woman.
“So that’s the competition. Think someone called her up to make a point?”
Ceria glanced around airily, then chose to go back to her seat. Yvlon hesitated.
“Aren’t you going to greet her?”
“Nah. I think she doesn’t like us. She seems like she’s spoiling for a fight.”
She does? Pisces eyed the calm woman who’d only glanced their way once, but Colth grunted.
“She is, isn’t she? Maybe she thinks she’ll make a name for herself if she punches Yvlon. I’d do it if I wanted attention.”
“Colth, some may call me the Silver Killer, but the truth is I’m hardly so famous—”
Laughter. The Horns sat back down as Elena listened to an explanation of who Itkisa was.
“Wow, so she’s got to be one of the older adventurers.”
“You get some like Typhenous, but it’s true she’s past the age most would retire.”
“What a queen. I respect that.”
Elena said the oddest things, but Pisces just sat back. Indeed, the [Herald] was calling out all the teams in the room now. Reminding the Court of Silks how many adventuring teams there were in case someone wanted their services.
“—the Conquerors of Rameid, known for taking on the dungeon of Rameid, the Carpetriders of Thistob, mourning two of their own lost in a terrible crash, the Singing Stingers of Scaied, and, an achievement among any adventurers, a team who has earned the recognition of Rhir! Hell’s Wardens!”
Raava and her team stopped waving around and developed a scowl. Ceria beamed at Raava, and Pisces blushed and groaned.
“Does it really make that much of a difference?”
“Adult Crelers are Adult Crelers, Pisces. Even Gold-rankers hesitate when they appear, and we’ve all killed one. It’s how you know a real adventurer, even among Golds.”
Colthei’s voice was a bit too carrying and loud, and he definitely did that on purpose. Pisces peered around. Ceria and Colth were not above needling the Conquerors, and Yvlon just did it accidentally.
“I’m sure the other Gold-rank teams could do the same, Colth. Most of them.”
They rose to their feet as people applauded the famous title and deed. Pisces saw Ceria waving, blowing kisses, and then a confused sound. The clapping slowed—then there was laughter, cheering, and Pisces blinked. Because a second team had gotten to their feet and seemed as surprised as him. Even the [Queen] appeared shocked as she peered from behind her veil.
The Horns of the Hammerad were standing—and so were Wildcard. The [Herald] continued shouting.
“Two teams have achieved this great title! The Horns of Hammerad, Gold-rank adventurers and a Named-rank adventurer who hail from distant Izril, and Wildcard, a team newly elevated to Gold-rank for their slaying of an adult Creler! They also mourn their late comrade Adventurer Justine, fallen in battle against the scourge of Rhir! Hell’s Wardens!”
Pisces stared at the trio, who gave his team a second look. They sat, and Pisces nodded at the trio. They’d lost a teammate? After a moment, they nodded back, and Colth cracked his fingers.
“Not bad. At least one team has guts. So—which teams are going to try and get in our way for this big quest?”
Pisces sighed and remembered Beton’s warning.
The tangle of politics had begun. In his adventures, no less.
 
——
 
Queen Yisame always enjoyed seeing the Horns in her palace. She just wished she could be with them, not on her throne, listening in via its powerful spells.
Then again, she might be so tongue-tied as to not say anything. The position of the reader, the observer, the fan of the Horns was to let them act as they willed and just be part of the audience.
That was what she told herself as she held court, paying some interest to the machinations going on around her, but listening into the Horns, thinking up story beats for her next literary work. She’d been published four times so far, and her credibility as a [Writer] was rising. Heartslayi, damn her, was still more popular, but there was a lot of appeal to Sandquen’s ‘realistic storytelling of the Horns of Hammerad’. That was a review she’d framed in her secret rooms.
Of course, Etrikah would have lectured her about balancing things, but Yisame was happy. She was allowed to be happy, and so what if the Horns caused trouble?
They’d arguably helped her more than not by killing one of her rivals and backing Zenol. Adventurers were a different kind of game in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. By backing the Horns, Yisame benefited when they did well, and she suffered a bit less for their foibles; everyone knew adventurers were crazy.
That didn’t mean all was perfect, though. What the Horns didn’t realize was that there was a substantive group in the Court of Silks who were unhappy today, as they had been yesterday and all week.
That would be the, ah, ah, members of the court who had a personal attendant or bodyguard who had been instructed to refrain from entering the Court of Silks with their usual entourage. Or the palace.
[Slaves]. Yisame had personally told her Chamberlain of the Palace to move them away from any conceivable wing that the Horns—especially Pisces—might venture into. Similarly, she had made it clear through lesser channels what was not acceptable in the Court of Silks at this moment.
It wasn’t a royal proclamation. That was far too obvious for this. She just instructed the Voice, who said it in the hearing of servants, who reported it to their masters, and word spread in subtle ways such that few, if any, in the Court of Silks turned up with a personal [Slave].
Naturally, they weren’t happy about that, but Pisces’ reputation as the Bane of Roshal helped. No one wanted to risk an accident. As for the rest? Yisame wanted him to be comfortable, so what were a few favors to her team?
They had done so well at the Coliseum. An adventure worthy of them. She couldn’t wait to see how the Tomb went. True, it was more political than their regular adventures, but it would be a useful boon for them to act, and the other teams…
Yisame actually had Itkisa, Torreb’s daughter, approach her and introduce herself. She said nothing of course; her Voice greeted the woman distantly, as befit a mere Gold-rank adventurer. Yisame tried to see some of the legend of Torreb in Itkisa, but the woman was distressingly plain, and she didn’t have Torreb’s famous club. Ah, well…it was hard for anyone to match the Horns save maybe a Named-rank team.
She did get a thrill when they approached her throne and Ceria accepted her quest on behalf of them. Yisame tried not to show Yvlon any signs of favor, but it was hard—she smiled, wondering if they were enjoying themselves here, in the heart of Nerrhavia Fallen’s luxuries. She hadn’t heard of them availing themselves of any of the more exotic luxuries one could ask for, but perhaps they just had no interest in that.
The Adamantium Bathhouse did get tiring after you’d seen it a few times, and she didn’t care for the menagerie much herself, even with the new magical beasts. Going to the library—there was an adventuring team after her heart. Far better than the Fall of Nerrhavia’s, that eyesore of a hallway a hundred thousand paces long.
 
——
 
The pronouncement of Queen Yisame telling the Horns to take on a quest and the rest of the palace was a bit more tiresome after that, and without great note to Pisces. He could have too much of fame and attention, so the Adventurer’s Guild was the only highlight to him.
Tyrant’s Rest had a proper Adventurer’s Guild on par with Invrisil’s. Bigger, Pisces dared say, though he had never seen First Landing’s.
It was massive, and so many teams were inside who wanted to talk to the Horns he promptly cast [Invisibility]. Unfortunately, that had [Mages] coming up to him.
The worst part was that many were friendly, if wary.
“Bane, a word? I don’t own [Slaves]—”
What a curious way to greet him. But Pisces realized the teams were different from Invrisil’s in one huge way: none of them cared he was a [Necromancer]. Unlike the memorable Captain Todi and their brief stint in Invrisil, he ended up shaking hands with several [Mages].
“You’re an [Illusionist]? Truly?”
A Stitch-girl who wore a [Fool]’s outfit juggled knives which were all fake.
“That’s right. My entire method is baiting monsters into traps while my team skewers them. I can’t imagine fighting and casting. How do you manage it?”
“Er…practice?”
“Truly? Most battle-casters can’t use a weapon. They have to be [Spellblades]!”
Pisces hesitated. When you mentioned it…he shrugged.
“I was raised as a child to keep focus while dueling. I had to practice to use magic and the sword.”
His father had certainly beaten it into him, and Feren, the highest-level [Necromancer] Pisces had known, had taught him to cast and fight. Another [Mage] who had graduated from the Academy of a Hundred Thousand Tomes sighed.
“Interesting. I do some fighting, but only after I use my mana. [Summoner]. I’d love to pit my spirits against your undead. There are plenty of [Summoners] in Chandrar; I know some [Necromancers], but it fell out of style after Az’kerash. Plus, cloth is harder to animate than other bodies.”
Fell out of style. Pisces swallowed his disbelief.
“I might not have time for that depending on how long we’re here—but why summoning?”
The [Summoner]’s name was Asmal. He showed Pisces a set of amber crystal preserving pieces. A bit of a sword, a tooth—Pisces had seen Revi’s gear, and he was familiar with it.
“Naturally, naturally. Summoning relies on pieces of what we want to revive. We need the whole corpse, though, then we take a piece and bind it. It works less well on continents where things rot or mold. But in Chandrar, one can die and become dessicated. And Stitch-folk leave lifethread behind, which is a catalyst.”
“Ah. Quite understandable. What do you prefer? I, er, favor Skeleton Champions these days, and a warbear. We have a Frostmarrow Behemoth, but the mana cost is intensive—”
Asmal had a fascinating array of monsters and even an ‘ancestral spirit’, who used a sword and shield. But he confessed it wasn’t much.
“Two Giant Scorpions and a Silver-ranker fighter that can’t hold off Gold-rank threats. If the Sandworm fails, I’m in trouble. I’d sell my right arm for a good summon.”
He flexed his arm, which was a dusky, even purplish hue. This limb was apparently tuned for fighting; it was made of a strange cloth that turned translucent in the sunlight! Indoors, it was only partially visible. Pisces imagined it’d be hard to see a blow coming, though you could see what Asmal held.
“Lovely cloth. Er, I’ve never thought of Stitch-folk changing their cloth like that. I know a [Summoner], Revi, who has a giant Shield Spider.”
Asmal’s eyes lit up with envy.
“How big? What a catch! If she got the body right away…summons degrade over time. Which is why even a Named-rank’s body might only turn into a Gold-rank’s spirit. But you can summon them forever as long as your crystal isn’t damaged, which is the benefit. Yes, this arm was an investment. Nightmare wool. I had the thought to make my entire body out of it; I’d have to go naked or enchant my clothing to be invisible, but I spent a fortune on this arm!”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“I was investing for another limb, but then Tiqr fell. It comes from there. No more to be had. That’s the problem with adventuring, especially abroad. You need specialized limbs and cloth. Your friend probably doesn’t want to risk having a limb that she can’t repair or maintain.”
“Revi is sensible. So the war with Tiqr has led to shortages?”
Grimaces from the Stitch-folk adventurers around him.
“Too many damn wars. We’re not soldiers, and some of the fools who went to fight Tiqr at the start never came back. Fighting Grand Oliphants is madness. Now we’re wanted for the wars in the north—fat chance against the King of Destruction! Same for Pomle and their [Martial Artists], Illivere’s Golems, or Tiqr. As for the eastern wars…”
“What eastern wars?”
Pisces had utterly forgotten how many conflicts Nerrhavia’s Fallen was invested in. One of the Silver-rankers scoffed.
“Some incident at the Meeting of Tribes. An [Ambassador] with a camel’s asshair for brains slew another. Now the only direction we’re not at war with is the south, and that’s just because there’s nothing there to fight but the sea!”
Everyone laughed. When Pisces asked if anyone was concerned about the number of wars, he got very neutral shrugs.
“We have more armies than sand, Bane. They’ll push the borders, win wars—then give up after enough of our armies strike them. The only true foe is the King of Destruction and—”
The [Summoner] hesitated.
“—He will be defeated like any other foe, of course.”
Well, that was politics. Ceria had to march in to drag Pisces out of the only fun conversation he’d ever had with teams he didn’t know to show him the board.
“Pisces, look at this! Why’d we have to be adventurers before this, huh?”
He regarded the board on the Adventurer’s Guild, and his jaw dropped. Pisces was immediately upset. Mostly because…being an adventurer had never looked more fun. Because, upon the board, each one glowing, the text literally shining different colors?
Were <Quests>.
 
<Rare Quest — Slay a Raging Manticore!>
<Basic Quest — From Githe the [Butcher]: A Prime Cut of Meat!>
<Rare Quest — Undead Horde! Bounties for Skulls! (Do not turn in literal skulls).>
<Rare Quest — Kidnapped: Hithcombe! Rescue him from the [Bandits]!>
<Basic Quest — Escort Duty to the Border!>
 
The rest of the world may have forgotten <Quests> or absorbed them into the cultural zeitgeist, but adventurers?
Adventurers were always doing this job, only now, there was a framework to reward people. Not just reward; the random items and extra experience from <Quests> was a lure. A siren’s song, and Pisces instantly regretted not taking on some casual quests.
Colth dragged him back to reality, though.
“According to the local adventurers, most <Quests> are just ordinary with a few surprises. You don’t get much from a rare quest, other than a nifty trinket or low-grade artifact if you’re lucky. But it also depends on the poster, apparently.”
Yvlon was standing alone; no one wanted to be near the Silver Killer, but her head turned from studying the board.
“Really? How so, Colth?”
His eyes twinkled with great interest.
“Why, a good <Quest> poster has Skills, Yvlon! Larra was complaining about not levelling or having any since she splits her Skills between magic and innkeeping. You can get extra rewards if you have a high-level [Guildmaster] or [Innkeeper]. That’s why Queen Yisame had the quest posted here instead of doing it herself. See?”
Pride of place on the board was a huge, recently-posted quest, and Pisces stared up at it. The other teams were blatantly envious, because it was clearly marked for the Horns. And this one made Pisces’ heart beat.
 
<Heroic Quest — Secure the Tomb of Yad’thuv!>
Limits: The Horns of Hammerad.
By order of Her Majesty, Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, hear and obey! The Tomb of Yad’thuv has been uncovered, an ancient resting-place of Stitch-folk. This hallowed ground is, no doubt, filled with restless undead, guardian spirits, and traps.
Enter, but do not slay the guardians carelessly; secure the Lifethread of each fallen warrior and ensure the tombs are kept safe. For the ancient warriors of old may become great warriors in service to Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Summoners].
Quest Reward: The favor of Queen Yisame, 12,000 gold pieces, experience in <Adventuring> classes, one lesser artifact of the vaults in Tyrant’s Rest.
Capital’s Reward (Bonus): An item of the Tomb of Yad’thuv.
 
Ceria was the first to finish reading and exclaimed.
“Dead gods! That last part—is that from Yisame?”
A woman leaned over the counter and spoke.
“It is none other than my Skill, Horns of Hammerad. I am Zamielle, [Royal Guildmistress], and my Skill allows me to append greater rewards on suitable quests. By the will of Her Majesty, I have done so. It is a rich reward, is it not?”
An artifact from the vaults and an item of old? Pisces licked his lips and noticed the other teams glancing at him. This was definitely favoritism. But Colth was just rubbing his hands.
“This is a good quest. Not only is it good, old-fashioned dungeon-diving, but we have lots of experience.”
“We do?”
The Horns had actually done Liscor’s dungeon and Albez, and Colth pointed out that some teams had no experience with that, like the Silver Swords. Moreover, as Ceria called for one of Wistram’s Magical Carriages to begin the journey now, he gave more reasons this quest had been posted.
“Summoned spirits are powerful. Even if they degrade over time, the odds are a tomb like that held Named-ranks. Which turn into Gold-rank spirits in life. If we’re lucky, they were already preserved before their death.”
“What? So they processed their dead but sealed them up?”
Ceria frowned, and Colth nodded as the carriage got moving. Yvlon waved at several Bronze-ranks who’d painted their arms silver then almost slammed the door shut—she had fans. The carriage slowed because plenty of people had gathered outside to mob the Horns, but they got moving as guards cleared the streets. The magical carriage effortlessly navigated traffic and then left the city, moving faster and faster. Inside, the seats were comfortable, the air cooled.
The Horns were riding off to adventure, albeit not on their chariot but in comfort. Pisces felt a bit like Deniusth and the Named-ranks. The chariot was a lot of fun, if bumpy, but this was faster. Colth kept explaining to the others.
“Yes, Stitch-folk would have known someone wanted the remains. But you seal a tomb up like that as, well, insurance. Especially if you don’t want current [Summoners] running around and getting too powerful. It’s also emotional. Imagine someone using your dead friends or heroes.”
Pisces sombered. There was a core of necromancy to summoning. He nodded, and Yvlon got it.
“Ah, and because it was just found, everyone wants it. So Yisame has us grabbing it. What’re the odds another team was hired to also grab the stuff?”
Colth’s eyes glinted.
“Almost 100%. But they would never admit to wanting to steal what belongs to the crown. Still, that means we’ll have Gold-rank teams running in there unofficially. We’ll have the high ground there, but they’ll be paid to get what we’re after.”
“Even if accidents happen. Great. Adventurer on adventurer violence.”
Pisces finished, but he was the only one who seemed terribly unhappy. Colth was just calculating, and Yvlon grunted.
“If they’re a good team, they won’t take the contract or we can talk them down. I don’t like it, but it also lets us go travelling. We might visit the Mad Ones. According to the map, we’re headed eastwards.”
Where Bearig and at least some of my friends are. It was a big nation, but Pisces’ heart leapt. Colth nodded, eyes flicking to Pisces.
“We’ll take a long trip, even if the dungeon’s simple. Let’s focus on the dungeon first, ey, Pisces?”
“Of course. Undead…it’s always undead, isn’t it? I could probably slay most of them by snapping their necks. Unless they’re Skeleton Lords.”
Ceria flexed her skeletal hand, grinning.
“And the circlet’s good for anti-trap duty. The real danger’s other teams. How d’you want to tackle them? Colth? You’re the expert. Darn, I wish I had some of those spellbooks from the academy! Well, maybe I can learn a spell or two on the ride. It’ll take time, even in this carriage.”
Pisces and Yvlon exchanged looks for a second, but he was relieved; they were away from the academy, on an adventure, and closer to his own goals. He settled back as Colth began to plan.
 
——
 
It took thirty-eight minutes for Colth to come up with a plan and everyone to agree. Which left, uh…two days for transit.
It turned out the tomb was far away, and fast as magical carriages were, Nerrhavia’s Fallen was vast. So the travel was boring.
Here was the thing: the chariot was more fun because even if bugs sometimes hit you in the face and it bumped, you felt in the world. From behind the magical glass of the carriage? Sounds were muted, and it was too loud if you rolled down the windows because of the speed they were going.
Nor could the Horns slow; Colth was pretty sure any teams who’d gone from the capital would have taken this very conveyance, which meant they had to go full speed. After all, another team looting the tomb wouldn’t be instantaneous, but half a day’s march would be disastrous.
Thusly, Pisces got to see Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s roads, and that was a dry, dusty sight. In places, they were beautiful roads kept by Djinni; in others, literal dirt and sand with tracks. He pointed out where the roads the King of Destruction had built across Chandrar via Drevish met roads that the Immortal Tyrant had laid until Ceria hit him with a comment.
“Pisces, all your roads appear the same to me.”
Whereupon he sulked and read the book he’d checked out until Ceria started whistling. Colth produced some cards, but he bet like a literal Demon; he was used to the Haven, who were cardsharks. Only Ceria could keep up with him.
What did one do to cut the boredom? The same thing everyone else did, these days.
They watched television.
“Next. Next. Next.”
“Stop flipping through channels, Springwalker. That one looked—”
“It’s Chandrarian propaganda. See the logo on the side? Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Oh wait, we’re on it. It’s me stealing books! Okay, bored. Next.”
…Even finding a good channel was hard. Pisces put away his book because he felt mildly nauseous. He was, in fact, carriage-sick while trying to read. Nor did the Horns want to dwell on their popularity in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Colth was squinting at a complimentary booklet in the carriage.
“Eugh, it’s like someone ate on top of this. Disgusting. Hold on, let me file a complaint.”
There was a magical survey form, and he began writing on that. Pisces sighed.
“Let’s just watch something. Channel 2!”
“Drassi’s not on it all the time, Pisces. Plus, it’s boring today.”
“⅕ stars. There. Sent. It says here they have ‘on demand movies’. Movies. What kind of word is that?”
“Earther term.”
Yvlon and Pisces chorused. Colth scowled.
“You can’t say that about everything.”
“You can if it’s from Wistram. I’ve seen them at the inn. Erin’s got them. What are Wistram movies?”
“Recordings of famous events. Oho. The Players of Celum! Darn, no Elisial. Just the classics they did in Liscor. There’s tours of kingdoms—all propaganda, I bet. And—oh, the Ksmvr of Chandrar documentary.”
“Let’s watch that!”
Ceria brightened up at once. Yvlon shifted.
“I’ve already seen it.”
“You have? When?”
“The moment I got back to Izril and he told us what happened. You didn’t?”
“I heard it firsthand from Ksmvr.”
“He downplays everything, Pisces. It’s good.”
“Well, let’s watch it again—”
“I’ve seen it six times, Ceria. Isn’t there anything else?”
Pisces tapped his fingers together as Ceria threw up her hands.
“What about a historical documentary, perchance? Some retelling of the Creler Wars or, more interestingly, a city or nation?”
“Pass.”
Colth was interested, but the two female teammates overruled Pisces. Colth patted him on the shoulder.
“Okay, wait. According to this, there’s a chatroom that Wistram has. You can talk to other people. There’s even one dedicated to finding newsworthy events. I think I heard there was some fellow in First Landing who had a class dedicated to watching the television.”
“And they call me lazy—aha! Here it is!”
Ceria hunted around and hit something on the side of the scrying orb installed into the center of the carriage. A blue screen with scrolling white text appeared, and Pisces blinked at an advanced [Message] spell.
They never taught us that at Wistram. Ceria began scrolling through the chatrooms.
“Huh, this could be fun to mess with. I wonder if we can get anyone to believe it’s us. Wait…#television-1. Looks like there are…1,903 people inside. Whoa.”
“Anything worth watching?”
She was rapidly scrolling up and down, eyes flickering.
“Heh, is your super-viewer named ‘Molen’, Colth? Everyone’s deferring to him. Lord of the Couch, they’re calling him. Pretty funny. I’m definitely going to mess around with this place.”
“Rings a bell. There’s a Lord Molen Terland.”
Colth had an eidetic memory for people and places like that. Ceria hmmed.
“He’s talking about us! Classic Horns? Do we have a reputation? Am I predictable? Weird, he’s telling everyone to tune into one of the Terandrian channels. The one from Ailendamus? He’s not being complimentary, but he says it’s a ‘must-watch’ for Horns fans. Hold on, let me see if it’s on the scrying orb.”
She began changing channels as Yvlon squinted at the messages and seemed appalled.
“Someone wants to lick my metal foot?”
She edged back from the message box, and Colth chuckled.
“Ah, fans. You get used to it. You wouldn’t believe what kind of offers Mihaela got around her feet. A rather common fetish.”
“Colth, do you ever think we don’t need to know things?”
Pisces folded his fingers together, and the [Supporter] gave him a huge smile.
“I share the curse of knowledge, Pisces. I could hit you with something truly painful to hear.”
His smile dared Pisces to take him up on it. The [Necromancer] thought and carefully sat back.
“…No.”
A flashing [Message] lit up the text box as Yvlon stared in horror at the words, and she jerked. Then read more.
“Wait a second. This is a mass alert. Jaw of Zeikhal sighted? A juvenile one—”
Colth sat upright.
“That’s like an Adult Creler or natural disaster. They must be warning everyone to take cover. Near us?”
“No, it’s a ways away, but close enough…we’ll go well clear of it. They’re calling all adventuring teams. Do we go?”
Yvlon glanced around as if that were the foregone conclusion, and Pisces was nodding, but Colth threw up a hand.
“Wait. If we do that, the other teams will loot the tomb. There are plenty of teams in Chandrar.”
“But it’s a Named-rank monster—”
“Juvenile, Yvlon. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has its armies. It might even be a trick. I’d do that—well, I’d call it an Adult Creler. Either way, we’re on a mission from the crown.”
Yvlon might have protested, but she saw Ceria shaking her head, and Pisces admitted Colth had a point. He sat back, and Colth smiled brightly before noticing the other two’s discontent. He hesitated—and then Ceria crowed.
“Got it! Let’s see what—oh shit.”
The scrying orb finally stopped on a new television channel called ‘The Glorious Report’, which was clearly Ailendamus; Pisces saw the familiar sigil in the corner with the lancearrows and ‘his’ kingdom’s crest.
Well, he was long gone from Ailendamus, and he had never thought of himself as a proud citizen beyond being born there. His father had wandered from place to place, and Ailendamus held nothing but regrets for Pisces. The only person who had survived his childhood and that blaze was Ama and, apparently, Feren.
Still, he wondered what was so important about his team on this channel? Pisces saw someone, clearly a reporter of some kind from Ailendamus, doing one of those interviews where the person being interviewed was in a smaller box.
Screen-in-screen. The [News Anchor] was smiling, and a picture of Pisces was present, hair all a-tangle, leaping into the Coliseum of Monarchs. Pisces turned beet red as Ceria began to hammer on the scrying orb. Him? They were broadcasting his face?
Of course, his name was out there because of the bounty that Montressa had put on his head. They had records. Pisces was about to tell Ceria to turn the orb off—he didn’t need to hear the Kingdom of Glass and Glory claiming him—when there was a voice.
“Disgraceful.”
The one word jerked Pisces upright. It was familiar. Pisces couldn’t have forgotten that voice, though he had not heard it for…
It was acerbic. Even grating. There was no sneer in it; it was precise in that each word was carefully enunciated, like the edge of a blade. Everything about that man was like that. But despite that, there was the sense that the speaker regarded everything as lacking. Including himself.
The excited [News Anchor] hesitated.
“Excuse me? This would be the, ah, aforementioned [Necromancer] and duelist who is believed to be a Silver-bell duelist, Pisces Jealnet. Of Ailendamus, though the Kingdom of Glass and Glory does not recognize his class, naturally. Yet his considerable abilities and fame—you disapprove, sir? Of your son?”
Then the image of Pisces was replaced by a man’s face, and Pisces’ hand leapt to his side. Because there he was.
Padurn Jealnet looked like Pisces, though the [Necromancer] was loath to admit it. But to his teammates, who had frozen, it was obvious.
His hair was a similar shade of brown, though a touch darker, and unlike Pisces’ untidy mop, Padurn’s hair was combed straight. And he was, disconcertingly, thicker than Pisces, if still fairly lithe. A [Duelist]’s fighting trim. He wore a leather guard on his non-dominant arm, and he stood with a simple rapier in hand. A silver bell hung from it, and his face was…stern.
Unsmiling. Creased from the scowls which were too common. Pisces knew that Padurn’s hands would be callused from holding the rapier. His eyes were dark brown and would only light up when he was angry or, so rarely, happy.
His father. The man was unchanged. After all this time—
“Pisces? Turn the scrying orb off, Ceria.”
Colth reminded Pisces he had stopped breathing. The [Necromancer] let out his breath in a rush, but stopped Ceria.
“No. I have to see…”
Padurn Jealnet interrupted Pisces, as ever, despite being a world apart. He addressed the [News Anchor] with a half-bow, precise as a razor. The Fencer’s Bow. He had names for every move. You inclined yourself to a 68° angle. Keeping your weight on your toes to move out of the bow at any moment—
Never show any openings, boy, even in courtesy.
That voice. It was all coming back to Pisces. A blow across the shoulders from the training stick. That expression of uncomprehending disappointment.
Flesh burning. Smoke in his lungs.
“Naturally, I disavow his class, Anchor Jormen. I consider my son’s actions a personal disgrace. Were it in my power, I would personally drag him back to face judgement.”
The man had a little box floating under him for identification.
Padurn Jealnet, Silver-bell [Duelist]. Ailendamus.
“I, ah, but he is your son and a Gold-rank adventurer considered to be on the cusp of Named-rank. The most famous [Necromancer] living, sir. And an acclaimed fencer in his own right. This is Padurn Jealnet, father of Pisces Jealnet, to any new viewers…”
The poor [News Anchor] hadn’t expected this. The number of the Horns of Hammerad’s parents that you could interview were pretty small. Ksmvr of Chandrar had no parents or it was the Free Queen—unacceptable. Ceria Springwalker’s parents? Deceased. Colth the Supporter, mysteriously, had no records on family, and it was presumed they were dead. As for Yvlon Byres, the man kept advertising Byres silversteel—so naturally, the most mysterious of the Horns, Pisces, was a shoe-in, right?
Unfortunately, no one had actually thought to consider Padurn’s character. He was simultaneously uncharismatic, but captivatingly grating. He shifted, posture immaculate, and shook his head.
“My son ran away from his home years ago to join the Academy of Mages. They, clearly, did not know about his previous misdeeds. I had already disowned him and disavowed any knowledge of his deeds. Clearly, he has learned nothing in the time since.”
“…But he is a Gold-rank adventurer, Duelist Jealnet?”
“Fencer.”
“Pardon?”
Padurn gestured to his rapier, obviously unaware of the title hovering below him.
“I consider myself a fencer. A duelist is a challenger, roaming and pursuing mastery of the blade through combat. A fencer practices to refine their techniques. I have chosen a sedentary life, although my current occupation allows me for more travel. Therefore, I am a fencer.”
“You pedantic bastard. Nitpicking as ever.”
Pisces muttered under his breath. Yvlon glanced at him, opened her mouth, and shut it. The [News Anchor] tried again.
“Er, [Back on Topic], if you please, Fencer. I do apologize. Your son demonstrated incredible talent in the Coliseum of Monarchs. And we have numerous examples of his swordplay. The Village of the Dead, his raid on a [Slaver] caravan—”
Padurn shifted and grew more pained, as if the sight of Pisces in any kind of heroic moment went against all he knew to be true. He replied swiftly. That was the thing about him. You might think you could flummox the idiot with his hardheaded, stubborn ways, but he was fast verbally, on his feet and with the damn rapier.
“I have observed all these recordings. My comment stands: he has not improved since I taught him. If anything, regressed. His form is off. In the first instance, he shifts from foot to foot on the sands, unable to balance any cut. Here—”
He pointed as Pisces wobbled in the image of him fighting two [Slaver Guards] at once. The image froze as the [News Anchor] pointed, and Padurn gestured.
“His arms and body are completely out of sync. He has no follow-through on his cut, which is what follows.”
Sure enough, Pisces slashed lightly across a face, and there was a spray of blood. Padurn turned his head.
“He relies on that spell, [Flash Step], without any nuance and magic to overcome his numerous shortcomings. I did not teach him that, nor do I hold his swordsmanship on any pedestal.”
Pisces was grinding his teeth. The worst part about Padurn was that he was correct. Those were bad cuts. Though the [News Anchor] was clearly on Pisces’ side and coughed.
“It was a rather hectic battle, Fencer Padurn.”
“I’m sure that is what he would say as his excuse. A true duelist—and he has met at least two, the Maestro in the Trial of Blades and the King of Duels—shows no weakness.”
“So…you have nothing to say about your son, sir? Is he not deserving of the silver bell he carries?”
The slightly waspish tone of the [News Anchor] did get through to Padurn. Once more, he shifted and grew uncomfortable. His hand touched his rapier’s hilt.
“I did not state that. Pisces Jealnet bested a silver-bell duelist in combat, albeit by ambush and with magic. However it was done, the precedent stands. A silver bell is a mark of competency. It is not the golden bell, which itself is controversial. He is far from worthy of a true fencer’s regard.”
“Ah, the silver bell. We were curious about it; he appears to carry a silverish bell, but not a standard one. But can you certify that Adventurer Pisces deserves the bell, sir?”
“Yes.”
“Did you witness the duel between him and a Silver-bell duelist? The Fencer’s Guild of Terandria cannot ratify it.”
More discomfort. Pisces did smile then, darkly. Padurn paused.
“I did. The individual he bested was myself, before his flight from Terandria.”
“He bested you? Before he went to Wistram?”
The [News Anchor], uncomfortable or not, realized he had a story here. Padurn shifted once more.
“He did. I was unprepared for his use of magic, and it was an ambush; I have no excuse. It does not change my analysis, as a pure fencer. Neither he, nor I, have reached any adequate level of bladesmanship.”
His eyes were boring into Pisces, and the young man wanted to jump into the scrying orb and take Padurn on. Though he had never dared without that ambush. And he’d only done it with rage and luck—
The broadcast continued as the Horns watched. Padurn Jealnet was a [Fencer]. Not the best. Far from the best given he had no golden bell and had always aspired to it. But he was a silver-belled duelist and, Pisces scowled as they saw him preparing to do demonstrations—
He hadn’t lost his edge. He hadn’t changed as much over the years, but when he drew that rapier, Pisces still knew he was behind the man.
Not with magic. With magic, Pisces could bet on himself. With artifacts—but with that mastery of the sword? If it was nostalgic to him, a bitter quill, it was illuminating to everyone else.
 
——
 
The Arbiter Queen, Jecaina, had nearly spat out her breakfast when she’d seen Padurn on the scrying orb. When he’d started to insult Pisces, she’d hoped the [Necromancer] couldn’t see this, and her ire had risen.
She was worried about Khelt and Fetohep, who wasn’t responding to her requests to talk, and her father was preparing to raid Medain again. The television was, then, an unhappy but welcome distraction.
The problem with hating Padurn was…she watched as another [Duelist] with a silver bell demonstrated Padurn’s training and techniques. She observed a graceful lunge at Padurn’s chest and how he backstepped, showcasing a classic guard against the dangerous move unique to rapiers.
“Damnit. He’s better than I am.”
“Who is?”
Raelt of Jecrass wandered into the dining room, eating a banana from the royal gardens. He took one look at the scrying orb and, without missing a beat, grunted.
“Silver-bell? He’s good. Better than you, yes.”
She glared at him, and Raelt hesitated.
“Er…who is he? Very interesting. It’s like watching a Training Golem fight. Dead gods, he looks as strict as can be. I can’t imagine he’s much fun to talk to. I wonder if I ever met him as a lad? Funny, he looks like Pisces.”
It said something that the King of Duels could read that much in the form of Padurn Jealnet. It also said something that he had focused entirely on the swordplay and not the name hovering under Padurn on the broadcast. Jecaina pointed, and Raelt swallowed.
“Oh. Huh. He and Pisces don’t fight the same at all.”
It was true. Padurn was demonstrating a relatively perfect display of fencing, albeit so hidebound and standard it would bore Jecaina to tears. But Pisces had been far more adaptive. You could see the basis of Padurn in Pisces’ form; he favored a fast-moving footwork that gave him a lot of range and only closed in for decisive blows. Pisces had taken that further with [Flash Step], staying mobile, but diverged in other ways.
Like someone who hated to fight like the man who’d taught him. The problem was—Raelt muttered.
“He’s better than Pisces too. At least in pure form.”
Jecaina threw an unpeeled orange at him, and Raelt seemed hurt.
“The blade doesn’t lie, Jecaina.”
“No, but you can be slightly nicer to the adventurer we like!”
“I swear I’ve met him before. Maybe we fought. You fight a lot of silver-bells who want to level. Hmm. Ah, well, he’s levelled since then, clearly. Watch this next bit.”
Padurn was standing sidelong, as fencers did, presenting the narrowest angle for his opponent to attack. He stared away from the other duelist, who circled him—then lunged, stabbing. Padurn’s hand blurred and swatted down the stab.
Instantly, the other [Duelist] backed up and hesitated. Then they came at Padurn, fast. [Flurry of Strikes], Jecaina guessed. Six blows in quick succession.
One, two, three, four—
Padurn knocked all four blows down with economical moves. Then Jecaina cursed and saw the other [Duelist] falter. Because Padurn?
He’d closed his eyes.
 
——
 
That was…new. Pisces had never seen that trick before, and it gave him a nasty feeling down his spine. When Padurn turned, he just confirmed it.
“My Skill is called [Automatic Parry]. Any mundane strike or blow within my ability to deflect will be.”
“That sounds quite—powerful, sir.”
“It is average for a Silver-belled duelist. It has most use when my attention wavers or I am taken from odd angles, which I should not be. It is a Skill no true [Fencer] needs. Clearly, I was awarded it after my disgraceful duel with my son.”
Padurn’s inability to take a compliment was a superpower. He went on commenting, having demonstrated his actual talents.
“What separates Pisces, myself, and any true duelist from that of one who holds a golden bell is simple: technique. He covers up his numerous shortcomings with magic. It cannot replace the fact that he has no ability to wound a foe of suitable talent or parry a sufficiently Skill-based strike.”
He didn’t know about [Jovelyn’s Parry]. But Pisces still glowered because once again—the [News Anchor] coughed.
“Without magic, you mean.”
“If he truly had any talent with the blade, he would not need magic.”
“But you yourself are no gold-bell duelist, sir?”
“My comments to him apply to myself, of course. Were he to assail the King of Duels with sword alone, he would never leave a scratch. The same for myself. Nor can he block a cut. If the Adventurer’s Guild certifies him as a Named-rank adventurer, I can only conclude it is a grave oversight and an insult to any true master of the blade. The next step, the next stage of mastery is not something a mere copycat can equal. It would be apparent if he were that.”
Padurn was clearly about to expound on every way in which Pisces had failed to learn anything when the scrying orb turned off. Pisces jerked.
“Hey!”
“Okay, what about Ksmvr of Chandrar?”
Ceria turned the orb to the movies as Yvlon nodded. Colth patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“Parents. Your swordsmanship is just fine, Pisces.”
“I am not worried about—change it back, Ceria. That man. He’s clearly sold out his principles. What happened to ‘eschewing fame for the art of the blade’? He’s barely improved. So what if my form isn’t perfect? You can’t perform any magical blade arts after a decade of study!”
Pisces was stabbing a finger at the scrying orb as his team tried to calm him down. His blood was boiling. Especially when he read in the chatroom that Padurn Jealnet had been invited to the royal capital as a sword trainer. Pisces threw his hands up.
“He’ll ruin everyone for the blade! That’s because I’m the famous one! He’s got no originality! He’s a snivelling yes-man who thinks the law is the law because someone wrote it down with a shiny quill! That pathetic, self-serving, unoriginal—”
He caught himself, staring at Padurn, and for a moment, the Trial of Shields flashed before Pisces’ eyes. He had won that due to his magic, inspiration, a feat he could not replicate.
Could Padurn have beaten the hologram Drake with a sword? Pisces doubted it. But he took no satisfaction there. He glanced down at the bell on his sword and whispered.
“We’re both unworthy.”
And he was a [Duelist], now. Just like his father. Pisces glowered at the scrying orb.
The next step. He wished he knew what that idiot meant. Yvlon patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“I’m sorry, Pisces. I have my own problems with my father. And my mother, in some ways. Just differently. Being raised by a single man like that—no wonder you ran from home.”
He blinked at her. Untensed slightly.
“Single? Padurn’s not a widower. My mother, Enica, is alive, unless anything’s changed.”
She hesitated as Ceria blinked.
“Oh? How bad is she?”
“She’s fine. What she sees in him, I’ll never know.”
Pisces sat back, sighing. He glanced around.
“What? She’s not the problem. He is.”
 
——
 
Enica Jealnet was no Padurn, that was true. But Pisces’ memory, which was over a decade out of date by now, wasn’t perfect.
Then again, he had only known his mother as a son, a child.
The Court of Masks had different opinions on the Jealnet family, all five of them. Which would have astounded Pisces on multiple levels. Firstly, that the distant and powerful center of the realm had any knowledge of him when he had grown up in obscurity, raised in a provincial lord’s employment.
Secondly…five?
Well, his siblings were eight and two, respectively. Pisces had no knowledge of them, having never returned or made contact with his family, and wasn’t that interesting?
He was interesting, and sort of a puzzle for the likes of Baron Regalius, Lady Demizine, or the other high-ranking nobles who spent their time advancing the cause of the realm, gossiping about Duke Rhisveri, and arguing in the Court of Masks.
Because, well…Pisces Jealnet was one of the most famous adventurers in the world right now. That wasn’t a subject for debate; a [Regional Bard] had conducted a survey, and Minister Sophridel had confirmed that in terms of name-recognition, he beat half of the world’s Named-rank adventurers.
Obviously, having a famous adventurer who came from your country was a boon. Ailendamus had long wanted for a big representative, and the reason they didn’t have one was a bit of that old ironic hindsight; when they’d conducted a review, it had transpired that all their talent that normally went into the adventurers who made it big…had been recruited as promising [Knights], [Mages], and so on.
You could do too well in mobilizing your young population. Thusly, Ailendamus would have loved their own adventurer to make figurines out of and to advertise their nation. Pisces would have been looking at a substantial deal to represent the Kingdom of Glass and Glory already except for the, uh, [Necromancer] thing.
That was why Padurn Jealnet had been on television. It wasn’t hostile! Not quite. It was Ailendamus feeling their way around him as an issue.
Embracing a [Necromancer] was unthinkable in a post-Az’kerash world, but he had been dead for a decade. And adventurers were their own breed…but it still would have been a hard sell.
On the other hand, Pisces Jealnet wasn’t the wretched sort of fellow you sometimes got in high-level adventurers. He was, by all accounts the Court of Masks could find of him, rather brave. Selfless in battle.
…But he was a [Necromancer].
“Damn! But for his class and we’d be printing stories in Tales of Adventure and Woe already! We don’t have anyone half as appealing in our Gold-rankers.”
Regalius was groaning as he eyed Enica and the rather surly Padurn Jealnet, who were quite overwhelmed by their visit to the Court of Masks. Well, Enica was. She seemed to be a pleasant woman, minding her children, who were tongue-tied, bowing despite being assured they should not.
Interesting…Regalius knew a bit of swordplay himself, and so he’d watched Padurn’s broadcast with several winces. The man had no charisma, but Regalius could recognize how good he was with a sword.
Even so, he muttered to Lady Demizine out of the corner of his mouth.
“I’m not recommending him to teach anyone in the palace, though. And I will defend that to His Majesty myself!”
General Bathnir, the retired, white-haired man who also associated with Regalius’ group, grunted in agreement.
“There are trainers who inspire and those who crush motivation, and that man is the latter. The one thing I find good about him is that he’s grating on anyone he talks to. Equal opportunity condescension.”
The [Baron] swallowed his wine with a grimace.
“Dead gods, is that the best we can say of him? Someone else, say something nice!”
“His wife is quite pleasant.”
Yietha murmured, and Regalius eyed Enica again. It was true; Enica Jealnet was not what you might think of her. She was no shrinking violet like he had assumed the surly Padurn might marry. She was actually…fairly athletic. She was long-legged, fit enough to have strode about the palace all day with two kids, and seemed ready to run a footrace.
Regalius suspected that anyone whom Padurn Jealnet married had to at least keep up with the man’s personal training journey. She even used a fencing foil quite well, though she had no silver bell. She was sociable, kinder than her husband, and yet Regalius shook his head.
“She is pleasant, Yietha. I just…did anyone notice she never brought up her son, unprompted, once? She never asked me how he was doing or for more tales of him. There is a rift deeper than the Kraken’s Trench between father and son, but the mother has her husband’s side. And from meeting and listening to that man for five minutes—I am somewhat inclined to wonder if Pisces Jealnet’s crimes as listed are accurate.”
The other nobles turned to Regalius. Strong words. Shocking words that called into question the judicial system and the authority of the local [Lord]—but no one took him to task instantly. General Bathnir put aside his wineglass, frowning.
“I think House Shoel has opened an investigation, Baron Regalius. I reviewed the case myself. On its face, the situation was simple. [Necromancers] were found in a cabal. Their sentence was perhaps overzealous, but they had raised numerous undead.”
“Some were children.”
Lady Demizine’s comment. Regalius found the wine had soured, and he nodded.
“Let’s wait for Shoel’s report. But if the question is whether or not to embrace our notable adventurer…he is a [Necromancer]. He is a criminal. But his father does not exactly add to his indictments. Preliminary surveys are in from Minister Sophridel, and it appears our nation is not exactly against Adventurer Pisces. Fencer Padurn’s broadcast may have actually added to his popularity.”
“How surprising. Do we allow the man a segment to demonstrate his abilities? We did bring him all this way out here.”
Everyone turned to Regalius, who had a lot of authority in the areas of entertainment under Minister Sophridel. Regalius smiled as he watched the Jealnet family.
“Of course. It may be Padurn wins over the courts or public. But if he fails, perhaps that’s an argument to embrace Adventurer Pisces after all.”
“Regalius, Regalius, the scandal—”
“Is it a scandal, Lord Cobilet? How many monarchs or nobles know of Pisces Jealnet? If we have one [Prince] who’s not from Ailendamus express support for him in a public comment…”
Regalius was thinking out loud. Then he thought of Noelictus and stopped. His brother had made war against the Kingdom of Shade, which harbored undead in its borders, for over a decade. It still…Regalius let the other talk for a moment, staring into his winecup.
Nevertheless. Digneral, his brother, had never searched for popularity or the benefits of being liked. Perhaps he should have. All Regalius knew was that there was another angle to embracing Pisces’ reputation. Whether or not anyone here said it…Pisces the Scourge had been made slave of Roshal. Embracing him would put their kingdom against Roshal, if only in some small way.
But upon small things did national policy sometimes turn. And Regalius? He took a longer drink from his goblet and thought Padurn uncharming His Majesty and everyone else might not be the worst thing. It was just a small play from a man who had some opinions on [Slaves]. He only wondered if his peers shared his opinion.
That was all, though, for the Court of Masks. Pisces was just one issue; far less consequential than the funny old Duke, who was becoming more of a character every day, or the war or—
But they did watch when his team got up to their shenanigans. The results of a single Gold-rank team’s actions reached across the world. The only question was: what would they do next?
 
——
 
The Tomb of Yad’thuv was no crypt buried in the side of a hill. That was only Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon’s memory that played tricks on them.
This one was a hole in the ground. Sand formed the dunes that provoked the memory, and they had no grass covering them; this empty ground had been uncovered by a chance gust of wind. But for that and you would never know the tomb lay here.
Arid, inhospitable land all around, the uninviting façade of a series of low-hanging cliffs, and ground so hard as to be rocky, despite technically being made up of sand.
The only vegetation here were cacti. This area lay inland of the coast, so Pisces thought no one could have lived in this region. However, they had passed at least one small community of Hemp-folk who lived by raising small herds and growing Yellats and cacti.
They were, then, surprisingly beautiful when you passed a cultivated cactus and saw it adorned with flowers that alchemists prized, blooming towards the sky, as Hemp-folk cut the blooms and gave the cacti little cups of water.
Flowers amidst the wilderness, and at the tomb? What always popped up: lookie-loos, people hoping to sell tools to adventurers, thieves, and lower-ranked teams. And the people who lived here. Again, Hemp-folk who stood well back from the actual tomb.
Possibly because the adventurers hired to clear it were already there.
“Shit, they’re already here! They must have taken off last night or at dawn!”
Despite Colth using Skills to boost their carriage, Pisces saw no less than four other Wistram Carriages at a standstill, and his heart leapt.
Other Gold-ranker teams really had been hired to undercut Yisame’s authority. This truly wasn’t Izril. Because they were also fighting.
Even as their carriage sped forwards, Ceria enlarged an image of the tomb’s entrance. Pisces saw at least eight people battling; there was the flash of a [Fireball]—a Garuda leapt out of the explosion, trailing smoke. They hurled something down, and a dual-colored flash of green and blue engulfed a team. But when it cleared, their barrier spells had kept the group protected. The Garuda linked up with five more fliers, and they dove straight into the exposed stairway.
“[Sycophantic Identification]. That team—those are the Jade Garudas. Fuck. That’s Named-rank. I’m counting the Singing Stingers of Scaiid on the ground—and the Roving Spearmasters, there! Gold-ranks! And another carriage is coming in. That means one more team’s lurking around, at least. Two, if the Garudas flew instead of rode.”
“Three Gold-rank teams and a Named-rank one? How valuable is this damn tomb?”
Yvlon’s voice was incredulous. Ceria grinned.
“More like—how much do they want to humiliate us and, by proxy, Yisame? Named-rankers are not within your plan, Colth. Retreat or circle?”
“They’re in the tombs, and they’re fliers. If we drop on them inside, I’ll give it to us. The moment they get out, they can just teleport or fly off. We can’t let an adventurer escape with the summoning materials. We need to secure the entrance. Your ice walls can probably hold even a Gold-rank team, right, Ceria?”
“If I reinforce them? For a while, yeah, unless they’ve got a Yvlon or a powerful Skill. But then, all the other teams are on our ass.”
Colth was thinking out loud.
“Then we wall the front. Get in, wall, take on any teams inside, and get out. Our advantage is being sanctioned. Scrying spells are already being deployed on this tomb. No adventuring team wants to make an enemy of the crown. Once Yisame’s people start shouting at them, they have a narrow window to pretend they didn’t hear. We just need to cut off their window of opportunity. I think the plan’s a go. Advance on that tomb and wall up. Pisces, you and I will deploy temporary spells, but Ceria has to use her magic.”
Specialization. At this point in time, Pisces’ [Bone Wall] spells were incomparable to Ceria’s ice magic. They had finally begun to diversify in abilities such that he couldn’t keep up with her. He nodded, but his heart was pounding.
“Colth, they’re going for the kill. Look—”
The Roving Spearmasters were fighting the Singing Stingers of Scaiid, and there were just three Stitch-folk with spears. But from the way the team of eight, the Stingers, kept back, each of the [Spearmasters] was like Relc. One opened up with a lunging stab that took one of the Stingers through the chest. The spearmaster hoisted the screaming Gold-ranker adventurer up into the air and flicked them off the spear.
Blood. The Stingers replied with a volley of spells and arrows that blew the ground apart; the [Spearmaster] was lying flat on their back when the air cleared. But some of the magic arced up, rebounding from the offensive, and landed near the civilians.
A bolt of green; it left six figures lying on the ground. They began to wriggle around, and Pisces saw more people fleeing backwards, towards the Hemp-folk who had stayed well clear.
Colth grimaced.
“Sloppy idiots—they’re not going as lethal as they can be, but only because they’re largely Stitch-folk. It’s a fight to the death if we start killing them.”
“And we’re doing this?”
Once again—Pisces felt like he was the person standing still while everyone else was preparing to move. Yvlon was flexing her hands, glancing around for a target. Ceria’s eyes were narrowed as she chanted spells. Colth turned to Pisces.
“We can’t fail the crown, Pisces. Like Yvlon said, if they were entirely upstanding teams, they wouldn’t be here. Don’t kill them; it’s not like the coliseum, Ceria.”
“Hey, I’m amoral, not stupid, Colth. Ready? Pisces?”
They looked at him, and he reached for his rapier. He didn’t want to do this. Can’t we just talk? They were looting a tomb of Stitch-folk. It felt different from Liscor’s crypts for some reason. Pisces frowned. What was telling him that? Instinct?
His class?
The [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur] felt at the back of his neck, then saw his team waiting on him.
“I’m with you, of course. Always.”
Yvlon smiled at him. Then her eyes swung to the battle, and he thought he heard her heartbeat pick up. Did the adventurers down there hear it?
Or was it just their [Dangersenses]? Then he saw a second carriage appear on their right, and Colth swore.
“Gold-rank team! It’s the Conquerors—”
The Conquerors of Rameid rammed the Horns’ carriage with their own, and then Pisces was fighting. No longer thinking. He wished that was less of a relief.
 
——
 
The Conquerors had spotted the Horns and been dogging them the moment they left Tyrant’s Rest. Now, Raava swung the carriage into their team with a shout.
“Horns! Now we sett—”
Their carriage bounced off the Horn’s magical carriage from Wistram, and an alert began to sound.
“Collision detected. Slowing to ascertain damages and contacting your Wistram representative. Please hold.”
“No! Damned thing—what was that?”
The Ultimate Supporter’s green hair poked out of the side of his carriage. He flashed them a smile with no actual mirth in it.
[Veteran’s Ramguard]. Their carriage kept moving. The Conquerors kicked at the magical control box and tried to open the doors—which had just locked.
“For your safety, please do not exit the vehicle. Please hold—this is Magus Rievan. Let me just see what the problem is, esteemed g—what the hell?”
The [Mage] whose face had appeared on the scrying orb did a double-take as Lorllemdrom shouted at him.
“Open the carriage or get us moving!”
“Is this a dungeon? Hold on, you can’t use our carriages to ram—it’s against our code of conduct!”
The [Mage] was staring around. Iptiv kicked the doors.
“Get us out of here! Get us—”
“Watch out!”
Orsenor shouted, and Raava stopped trying to bail out one of the windows. She’d broken the magical glass with her pickaxe only to see someone leaning out of the other carriage.
Ceria Springwalker. The Ice Squirrel beamed.
“Hey, Raava! I owe you some of these! [Ice Lances]!”
“Dead gods!”
The first lance of ice slammed into the carriage, and alarms started blaring. Magus Rievan panicked, waving his arms.
“Stop! Stop attacking the carriage! This is Wistram Academy’s property—”
“Get out the other side! Hurry!”
One of the Conquerors slashed through the magical doors, and they leapt out, but used the carriage as cover; Ceria was bombarding it with more spells. Raava was poking her head out from the right side.
“We have to break clear and get into the tomb! Orsenor, give me a [Dustcloud Bomb]—”
“More magic!”
Lorllemdrom, their [Mage], warned the Conquerors and they took cover. However—the second spell wasn’t a direct attack. Instead, Raava yelped and then stared down at her armor. There was frost on it.
“She’s lowering the temperature! Get clear!”
“She’ll snipe us—”
Iptiv tried to dash free and nearly ate an arrow. Colthei the Supporter had a bead on them, and he was keeping them pinned. But that meant the Ice Squirrel was still casting.
[Snap Freeze]. As the Conquerors felt the numbing cold eating at them, there was wind. And snow. Then—
[Whiteout Blizzard]. They were immersed in freezing winds, shouting. Raava leapt out of cover, and an [Icy Lance] slammed into her. But for her magical chestplate and she would have been killed; her team dragged her behind the carriage.
 
——
 
“Conquerors locked down!”
Ceria grinned as she saw the four heat signatures of the Conquerors staying put. Then she switched targets.
They were right on top of the two Gold-ranker teams, the Singing Stingers of Scaiid and the Roving Spearmasters. Both teams saw theirs coming, of course, and pivoted.
“The Horns! Damn the other teams—we need to be done before the palace blacklists us!”
That was the leader of the Stingers, who were advancing, seven-strong. The two Spearmasters called out.
“Truce?”
“You took out Marid! Never!”
That was all they got before the Wistram Carriage nearly ran over one of the Spearmasters. The Stitch-man leapt aside, and there was a voice from the inside.
“Pedestrian collision detected. Informing a representative of—”
The carriage didn’t slow, but did a U-turn and tried to run the [Spearmaster] over again. He stabbed desperately, but his enchanted spear didn’t penetrate the reinforced magical sides of the carriage. Then there was a voice.
“This is Magus Rievan, please h—are you running that man over? Stop! How are you controlling—”
Colth, again. [Commandeer Vehicle]. [Bandit] Skills. He swung the carriage around, spraying dirt, then someone launched from the side.
The Stingers were making for the tomb as the two Spearmasters dodged the carriage. Then they saw someone hit the ground and come running at them. Their [Captain] turned.
“Threadmakers. The Silver Killer! Drop her!”
They spun as the Silver Killer of Izril ran at them. She was—fast. The Stingers still managed two volleys.
Two [Lightning Bolts], an enchanted arrow, and a throwing disc—all hit her dead on. She burst out of the first volley, and they saw her skin was grey.
[Aspect of Iron]. She ignored the damage, and she was grinning—
“Hold her at the barriers! Ready—”
An arrow hit her in the cheek. Glanced off. One of the [Swordsmen] in the Stingers put a hand on their blade.
Wait—
She hit their barrier spells, and the barriers went out. The Stingers weren’t expecting that. They saw Yvlon Byres go through the barriers, and only the [Warriors] had a moment to react.
“[Quadruple Slash]—”
The [Swordsman] hit her. Three times; she blocked one of his slashes with an arm. But despite his enchanted mithril sword—all his blows bounced off something. Her skin. The prismatic barrier of their [Mage]’s magic was on her skin—
She shoulder-charged into him, and a fist met his sword. It compressed his sword back against his chest, and the [Swordsman] twisted—bounced off two of his teammates. He was trying to get up when her metal arms just—exploded into spikes.
 
——
 
The two Roving Spearmasters saw the entire team of the Stingers vanish in a giant porcupine of silver metal. Instantly, they spread out. One of them kept dodging the magical carriage, which was trying to run him over.
Colth was in the driver’s seat, and Ceria leapt off the carriage next, skating on a ramp of ice. She was covering her friend; the Stingers were trying to fight Yvlon as she punched through them at close-range. When they backed up, Ceria blasted them from behind.
“Disgraceful.”
The Captain of the Roving Spearmasters planted his spear on the ground. Three Gold-rank teams against one? He prepared a Skill. [Inferno Javelin]. Aiming at the Ice Squirrel. Barriers or not…
He had a half-second to notice the sand moving slightly before the invisible blade slashed at his chest. Nevertheless, the Captain parried Pisces the Bane’s cut. He cursed, whirling his spear around in a [Deflection Pattern].
Four strikes—one got through and cut across his chainmail armor, but that was all. The [Spearmaster] returned with two jabs. He saw the sand moving.
“Your teammate is down. The other one is fighting Colth, a Named-ranker. I would retreat, Captain.”
“We are [Spearmasters]. Face me openly, duelist. Let us see which is better. Silver bell or [Spearmaster].”
The Stitch-man motioned, and to his surprise and gratification, Pisces did appear. The [Necromancer] hesitated, and he raised his rapier. But that strange bell he carried—Captain Rashoy glanced at it.
That’s not silver, like the television said. He lowered his stance, preparing to sweep in. But the [Necromancer] just lifted his rapier.
“I regret to say, Captain, I have no time for a duel. Forgive me. Then retreat. My teammates are all more dangerous than me.”
What did that mean? The [Captain] was running forwards for a [Low Sweep] Skill followed by a Spear Art. But he aborted the charge—pivoted—
The arrow hit him, and only his helmet saved him. Even so, his head rang—but the man was blocking something else. A heavy swing—he stumbled. Then had to leap back away from—
He leapt back into a blade, which slashed across his chainmail. Then he felt bony hands on him. But he saw nothing. Just twisting sand—
The [Invisibility] spell broke, and six Skeleton Champions appeared. They’d gotten the drop on him! The [Archer] took aim as Pisces saluted the man.
“Apologies. I am a [Necromancer] more than a [Duelist].”
Then he [Flash Stepped] away. The [Captain] swung his spear through one of the Skeleton Champions’ heads, but the rest came at him.
[Undead: Bonerattler Charge]. He ate his first real wound as the one with the greatsword drove the blade into him and nearly broke a rib.
“Calpit!”
He shouted for his teammate—and didn’t see the other [Spearmaster]. The final member of his team had tried to take the driver of the magical carriage out.
Colthei the Supporter drove past Captain Rashoy. He had a bloody blade in hand. He leapt off the carriage, and it skidded to a stop. Someone was being dragged behind it. Rashoy saw his teammate—Calpit was missing an arm and still struggling to free himself from the rope that the [Supporter] had used to drag him across the ground.
“Fall back! Grab Miha!”
He swung at the Skeleton Champions, who were pulling back, five strong, towards the tomb. Rashoy deflected an arrow and heard a scream of fury.
The Conquerors of Rameid emerged, frostbitten and furious, and the Stingers were scrambling away from the Silver Killer, five standing. A flying carpet descended, and three teams of Silver and Gold-rankers leapt down, shouting.
But the Horns had reached the tomb’s entrance. Rashoy saw the [Necromancer] turn back as the Ice Squirrel and Silver Killer joined his position. The [Supporter] was using the entrance as cover, firing arrows at the other teams. For a second, Rashoy locked eyes with Pisces the Bane.
He’s no slaughterer of men like the rumors say. He even appeared guilty. Rashoy lifted his spear. The [Necromancer] could have done far worse during that surprise attack. Then Rashoy fell back, running to get his fallen teammate.
Rashoy was a Level 35 [Spearmaster of Sand’s Flare]. After today, Rashoy hoped it was Level 36; that would be the one consolation prize from this disaster of an attempt. He consoled himself with two things.
Firstly, his team had only gotten cut up but not wounded beyond some good cloth and stitching. Second? He peered over his shoulder.
“Gold-rankers. Hah.”
“Damned Adventurer’s Guild.”
Calpit agreed, hunting around his for his arm. They were all over Level 40 or Rashoy would eat his damn spear.
The other teams were bearing down on the tomb’s entrance as the Horns regrouped. There was a pause; one of the Conquerors fired a glowing arrow, and it exploded as a Skeleton Champion threw itself in the way of the projectile. Then…
The Frostmarrow Behemoth roared its way skywards. Ice and ivory funneling upwards from the two [Mages] who held hands, a glowing blue flame in the eyes of the largest—and first—bear that Rashoy had ever seen. It turned, and the Conquerors of Rameid slowed and began backpedalling.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth charged, roaring like an earthquake given voice. Then the Horns of Hammerad vanished inside. The Roving Spearmasters retreated towards their carriage, shaking their heads.
“Let the Jade Garudas try them. Or those other two teams. Let’s get out of here and find a [Mage].”
“To do what?”
“See if they’ll pay us to do an interview.”
 
——
 
The Horns made it to the Tomb of Yad’thuv by virtue of superior gear and strategy, mostly. Colth had reasoned that since no one knew how Yvlon’s ring worked, any team using conventional barrier spells would be easy pickings.
Moreover, Pisces and Ceria were experts at locking down the enemy—even if the two of them didn’t actually do that as much, their classes were perfect for delaying actions. Colth had been most worried about Pisces getting hurt or Ceria growing overconfident, but her takedown of the Conquerors with his help? Textbook.
Even the Haven’s crowd would admit she’s got Named-rank instincts there. Three spells to take the Conquerors out of the fight long enough for them to secure a position. The last trick had been the magical carriage, obviously.
Far too useful. Archmage Amerys had demonstrated how they worked, and having a vehicle that was a lesser version of Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage was hard for anyone to beat, even a Gold-rank team.
We’ll have to watch out for someone doing that to us. Though Colth had already speculated that if he deployed an obstacle, he might be able to flip one coming at them.
They made it to the tomb’s entrance, and Colth reviewed their state. No major wounds on anyone in the party. Yvlon had taken some hits, but she was using her second ring to heal herself. Magic expenditure was moderate with Ceria, but she was guzzling a mana potion.
Pisces had lost all but three Skeleton Champions, but had enough bones to remake two. [Ice Walls] were now deployed, and with Ceria’s [Glaciersheet Ice], they’d have plenty of time before a Gold-rank team broke through—once they dealt with the Frostmarrow Behemoth.
“Alright, let’s push. Ceria, how much mana are we working with? Can you cast [Summon Frost Elemental]?”
She flicked her eyes to him, still grinning with the adrenaline.
“Sure! How many do you need?”
“Can you do…four without needing a mana potion? And use the Crown of Medain?”
“If I draw on the circlet’s magic, sure. Just flood the corridors?”
He had his bow in his hands and was scanning down the tomb. Colth saw old murals and text on the walls, beautifully preserved. He wished he had time to read it; the creators of this tomb had clearly recorded the history of the place. Perhaps even the names and levels of the dead. But he focused.
“That’s right. We don’t have time to search for traps beyond quick checks. Send them forwards. If they vanish, let us know. And tell us when your ice walls come under attack.”
“Aye aye, Captain Colth. Everyone good?”
“That was crazy. We just rushed three Gold-rank teams.”
Pisces was wiping at his brows, but Yvlon only grunted.
“They were easier than I thought. I was worried when they tagged me with spells. The Stingers fell back without engaging me hard.”
Well, you probably outlevel all of them by ten levels, and you ran at them with Galas-muscle. And they saw your last fight. 
Colth didn’t say that, obviously. Better if the Horns continued behaving like underdogs. He just smiled as Ceria conjured four beings made of frozen ice. Tall, angular; the Frost Elementals strode forwards, shedding vapor, and Pisces pointed.
“Skeletons, advance and…engage? Don’t kill adventurers. Any defenders of the tombs—yes. Don’t kill anyone living.”
The Skeleton Champions let the Frost Elementals go forwards, then the creatures summoned by the Crown of Medain. Smaller, snarling jackals made of light, a green bird with huge claws—eleven Silver-ranker monsters.
Nothing fancy. All together, the summoned monsters would probably only delay a Gold-rank team, but it was a damn horde. Colth smiled wider.
This team of mine has so much utility. He loved it. Normally, you had to pay for this kind of firepower if you were with Eldertuin or Viecel, or you traded all your offensive capability for magic or being all-rounders like Larracel.
But with Yvlon and Pisces, Colth actually had a strong frontline too. Their only weakness was a lack of [Rogues], and he filled that gap.
“Okay, I suspect two teams are down here—one’s Named-rank. The Jade Garudas are respected, but fliers. They favor magical attacks with their speed. Hit-and-run tactics. I think they’re some kind of magical Garuda subspecies? They’re overconfident or desperate. They shouldn’t have entered the tomb, but waited to pick off anyone coming out. My guess is they think they can blitz the tomb and get out. They might be able to cut through Ceria’s [Ice Walls], so our goal is to negotiate or neutralize.”
“Think they’ll be willing to talk?”
The Horns strode down the corridors, which were actually well-lit. Little balls of [Light] had illuminated on sconces, revealing the old sandstone corridors and sarcophagi lining the walls. Colth glanced at them.
“Hard to say. I’ll get a read on their personalities and communicate it to you, Ceria. Remember: they’re a Named-rank team, so they’re sharp. But I’m a Named-ranker. If they recognize me they’ll think twice before assuming they can overpower us. Also, we can rely on Fetohep’s friendship.”
“What about Yisame? Ow. There goes one of my aspects. One left.”
Yvlon was scratching at a chunk taken out of her cheek. As her [Aspect of Iron] faded, it became a bloody gash; she grimaced. Colth sighed.
“It’s just politics with Yisame. Fetohep, though…he’s a petty [King], and a powerful one. I heard he reached out to them.”
“Colth…do you ever stop coming up with weird facts?”
“I just listen to gossip, Pisces. Now, note the light spells. Inbuilt from the tomb’s creation, not placed by the first team who got in. That means the magic is still good. I reckon the other teams dealt with traps or guardians. It also means our loot’s here. So no adventurers get past us without turning out their bags of holding. Well, I’ll check them anyways. They can hide loot anywhere.”
“Like up your butt. Yvlon style.”
“I swallowed my loot, Ceria.”
“It all comes out one way, Yvlon. You ever had to deal with that, Colth?”
He sighed.
“Too many times. It’s worse when it gets stuck.”
Pisces groaned.
“Colth…can we just be professional?”
“That’s as professional as Named-rankers get. Okay…silence spells. Keep chatter low.”
The Horns advanced. Colth saw the corridor of the honored dead sloped downwards, and his hope was that the tomb was just one long, long corridor. That’d make it a real easy killzone.
Sadly, it was not. Everyone had to be cute. Happily, though, when they reached the first intersection, someone had actually chiseled a map onto the tomb. Colth chuckled.
“I love helpful architects. Nice. Okay, three passages but just three wings. We have a chokepoint here. The northern wing is largest…I’d bet that’s where our treasure is, just based on general vibes.”
The writing on the walls was in the common tongue, telling Colth this wasn’t too old or made by unexpected groups. It was Pisces who hmmed and read as Ceria directed the summoned creatures to split. She sent the Ice Elementals forwards, the Medain minions right, and let the Skeleton Champions go left. The [Necromancer] eyed the writings.
“It says ‘Skein of Yad’thuv’ is the western wing. Whereas the right reads, ‘Threads of the Guiders’. But the northern tomb is simply, ‘Legacy of Thuv’s Reed-folk’. Fascinating. From this, I infer that the left corridor isn’t what we need. Stitch-folk might put just a lifethread in a pot.”
“Mass-graves, then. Low-level. ‘Threads of the Guiders’ means the ruling class? They might be valuable, but probably are lower-level. Treasure might go there.”
Ceria commented, and Colth concurred.
“Wall the left side and north? The north sounds like our destination, mind you. ‘Legacy’ indicates that they intended this place to be found, and their champions sound like a legacy.”
Pisces sniffed at everyone stealing his thunder, but nodded. Yvlon just raised a hand.
“Reed-folk? Why are they called that? This is a high-level tomb, right?”
“Maybe they were all made with reeds if this place had water during their time, Yvlon.”
“I know, but can you even make reeds into cloth? Is…is that comfortable?”
The question genuinely gave the Horns pause. Colth knew you could make cloth out of most plant or animal fibers, but he hesitated.
“You’re right, it sounds closer to Hemp-style cloth. But magical reeds? Or maybe that’s how their civilization evolved? Let’s speculate later.”
They were about to head down the right corridor when Pisces held up a hand.
“Contact! One of my Skeleton Champions went down; the rest are fighting.”
Colth nodded.
“I’ll go first with my armor’s advanced invisibility if I need to. Yvlon, don’t let them get at Ceria. If we need to, just [Ice Wall] and fall back, but try not to cut me off if they detect me?”
Pisces nodded and lifted a glowing finger. Yvlon strode forwards as Ceria covered her with a wand, and Colth kept low next to her, bow aimed. They heard fighting ahead of them.
“—dodge]! They’re damned fast!”
“Someone’s coming! I can sense their footfalls! Living! Hey, help us—”
“They’re the ones summoning the undead, jackal-brained asses! Hold! Hold, we wish to parlay!”
The most authoritative voice came from ahead, and Colth decided not to use his armor’s powers—yet. They’d need time to recharge. Instead, he peered down the sloping corridors and, as they descended, saw Pisces’ remaining two skeletal champions fighting a group of six.
Well, some of the six. It was a mix of species. Three were wounded, one quite badly burnt. The other three adventurers were…Gold-rankers? Colth didn’t recognize the team, but the wounded ones felt weaker.
Golds and some Silvers? Not unheard of, but it was stupid for this. He called down as he aimed at the leader, who was actually one of the Fox Beastkin.
“Horns of Hammerad! And you are?”
“Nerrhavia’s bones, it’s them. We are the Adventurers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Pull back these undead! We wish to negotiate!”
“What a name. I should have called myself Ceria, the Cold Half-Elf.”
Ceria muttered sotto voce at the others. Yvlon snorted, but Pisces was already calling the Skeleton Champions off. Colth would have preferred them to stay at melee range, but he just called down.
“You’re interfering in the business of Queen Yisame, Adventurers!”
“We took on a job, same as you. It’s not personal. Listen…you.”
“Colth, the Supporter.”
He sighed and the Fox Beastkin squinted.
“We don’t want to quarrel with the Bane or Silver Killer, alright? Nor are we carrying treasure; the other team already did for us. We would have left but for the teams above. Let us pass, and we’ll go. Agreed?”
Colth turned to Ceria, and she tapped the circlet.
“I don’t think they’re lying. Hey, Captain You! You guys come up one-by-one, and we’ll have Colth search you and then let you leave, agreed? There’s walls of ice up, so I’ll have to let you out.”
Muttering from below. The adventurers didn’t like that.
“Why one by one?”
“So you don’t try and pull a fast one. We’re not going to kill you. You can watch us, but that’s the deal.”
“Do you have any assurances?”
“Swear on a truth spell.”
“We don’t have any.”
Colth was pursing his lips, thinking of a solution, when Yvlon called out.
“I swear by my arms. Silver and steel be my witness, let my arms fall off if I lie. I’m from House Byres of Izril; upon my class, I promise. And Pisces will swear by his broken chains. Agreed?”
The Adventurers muttered to each other, but Colth raised his brows.
“Pretty good, Yvlon.”
“They like poetic stuff.”
Sure enough, the Adventurers called back.
“Agreed! Swear!”
Pisces and Yvlon gave their words, and the adventurers came up, though they actually had to help some of their wounded party members. They were badly hurt indeed; all of them had magical damage, and the worst off was a Garuda whose feathers were scorched to her skin.
“Damn, you don’t have healing potions?”
Colth actually had to stop checking them for loot and pull out a burn salve. The Garuda twitched when he applied it, but he thought it wasn’t critical. Just bad. The Captain, whose name was Fetriv, only grunted as he watched his team moving past the Horns.
“Not for that. The teams you want all went straight. We heard a second team fly past.”
“The Jade Garudas. So the first team got you? How many, and what did they do?”
Intelligence was key. Fetriv just scowled.
“We were here first! We set out while you were all napping—but they had summoned Stitch-folk we had to fight past. Damn them. It was all a test; the summoning crystals are waiting to be claimed—once you slay the guardians.”
Interesting. Colth was sorry to miss the actual dungeoning portion.
“Let me guess, the other team let you do all the hard work then came at you from behind?”
He was surprised when Fetriv shook his head.
“No! They must have had a Skill or cloaked themselves; the summoned warriors didn’t attack them! We tried to fight, but their [Mage] just hit us with…something. It wasn’t a [Fireball]. We had barriers up, but she detonated the spell, and the other two forced us to retreat down here. Then you all showed up.”
Hmm. Well, it was good enough. Colth nodded.
“You’re cleared—except for this.”
He reached down and plucked something from the wounded Garuda’s side. The Adventurers stirred, and one protested.
“H-hey—”
“You put whatever you grabbed in here.”
The bag of holding had soot all over it, but it wasn’t actually damaged; they’d just made it look like it was. Colth emptied it into his bag of holding.
“It probably wasn’t what was needed for your assignment, anyways. And we’re not going to sort it. Clear out, deal? The Jade Garudas are up ahead, and it’s going to be Named-rank fighting with that other team. Which one was it?”
For answer, Fetriv shrugged.
“One of the ones at the damn banquet. Fine! Open the walls and we’re quits. Thanks for not murdering us and reanimating us, Bane. Good thing we never bought a Slave Adventurer.”
He commented to his teammates, then saw Colth and Pisces staring at him. The team of mixed adventurers beat a hasty retreat, and Colth muttered.
“Ceria?”
“Opening a gap in my ice walls. They’ll squeeze through. I’ll re-wall the main corridor. Summons found nothing on the left side. Maybe keep them there in case a team’s in hiding? But I say let’s push the north.”
Good instincts, good leadership. Colth didn’t object, and the Horns saw the other team running as Ceria raised an [Ice Wall]. But she didn’t get it up entirely before she whirled.
“North—”
There was a muted squawk—then the scream of something hot hitting Ceria’s [Ice Walls] that had blocked the northern wing off. Colth saw white-hot light behind the wall and snapped.
“Yvlon, forwards! Let’s flank ‘em, left and right!”
Ceria dove to the left and raised an [Ice Wall] at chest height to crouch behind. Pisces copied her as Yvlon and the skeletons planted themselves in the ground. Colth saw something burn through Ceria’s ice walls, fast.
“Jade Garudas. Let’s get—”
A hole appeared, and he fired a [Lob Shot] through the gap as soon as the steam revealed one. Just an arrow with a Potion of Blast attached. That was a lovetap in Named-rank terms.
However—the Garuda who barrelled through the gap came out fast, in a horizontal dive, caught the arrow in one claw, and tossed it back at Colth. He aborted the [Remote Detonation] Skill, kicked the arrow down the corridor—
“We’re retreating. Stop or we fight.”
The Garuda had brilliant magical feathers—and a cracked beak and scorch marks all over his armor. Colth hesitated, and Ceria threw up a hand.
“Swear to it or I’ll wall your team off.”
“I swear. We’ve been bested. Damn these walls!”
Colth waited for the nod, and Ceria lowered the [Ice Walls]. Instantly, three more Garuda flew over and carried one of their teammates out.
No burn marks here. Colth eyed the fallen Garuda and asked the obvious.
“Who got you? And how?”
“Some new team. Lack of air, the damn Stitch-folk summons—and whatever the hell weapon their Captain is using! They’re set up down there. We can’t maneuver. We’re out.”
The Jade Garudas were clearly a cautious team, for all the risks they’d taken. Like any Named-rank who’d lived long enough, they’d seen something they didn’t like and bailed out. Colth checked them for loot, then turned to Ceria.
“They’re clear.”
“Opening this wall. What team? Stitch-folk?”
The Captain of the Jade Garudas had magical talons still radiating heat. He grimaced at them.
“I thought they were your friends. Humans. None of them look Chandrarian. I’d say ‘best of luck’, but I’d rather you all failed right now.”
He flapped through the second ice wall, and the Horns glanced at each other. So, one team had held down a weaker Gold-rank team and a Named-rank one? True, the Jade Garudas were out of their element, but that set alarms ringing in Colth’s head.
“Sounds like one team’s actually in position. I don’t know how they got the Stitch-folk on their side. Might be they can suborn summons? Or they just activated the crystals. Let’s move up.”
“Should we negotiate?”
Pisces was licking his lips. Ceria laughed softly.
“For what? Half the loot? They’ve got everything, and all they have to do is break out or beat down every team who comes in here. That’s going to be hard; I can tell someone’s hitting my ice walls at the entrance. Probably too scared to squeeze their way in. They’re trying fire magic, though, which is as good as pissing on it.”
“Let’s call it twenty minutes before anyone gets past both ice walls?”
Colth guessed, and Ceria shrugged.
“Double that if—no, wait, something’s taking chunks out. Must be Raava and her pickaxe, but I’ll solidify. Twenty, yeah.”
“Then send the Ice Elementals and Skeleton Champions forwards and advance. I think we use your [Ice Walls] and let you hang back; Yvlon charges, I go invisible, and Pisces sniffs.”
“Good plan.”
“I do what?”
“Go long-ranged, unless you can get past their defenses. You’re squishy; Yvlon and I aren’t. You only have 89 Health Points, Pisces. It says so right on your character sheet. I’ll show you when we get out of here.”
“Damn, that’s only a bit more than mine. Pisces does have the Stalker underarmor, but Colth’s right that we can’t take careless hits. Okay, team. One more group to spank. I’m pretty sure that’s Wildcard down there. Time to give them a real reason to hate us.”
The Horns advanced past the ice wall the Jade Garudas had melted through. Yvlon was smiling faintly, but saying nothing. Tensed. Pisces was pretending to sniff, but his rapier was drawn, and he was staring down, following his Skeleton Champions. Ceria just smiled, eyes flicking from Pisces to Colth to Yvlon…
The Ultimate Supporter was calm. Smiling—he sent a Skill on the summoned minions.
“[Summons: Enhanced Movement]. Any cont—”
Boom. The Horns felt it up ahead. Yvlon started running, and Ceria called out.
“That’s one Ice Elemental d—two. Damn, they’re not supposed to be that weak!”
“Pull them back! We’ll send them with the Champions!”
Ceria tried, but there was a second explosion. She called one up the hallway, and Colth saw it sloping downwards.
Nice, long tunnel…with scorch marks on the bottom. He held up a hand.
“Hold on, I sense—”
“Something on the ground. Walls. Magic. That must be trap spells.”
“Taking them out.”
Colth fired an arrow at one. He swore he hit whatever it was; some little object, he thought. The size of his thumb? Good magic. But the arrow did nothing, so he grunted.
“[Piercing Shot].”
The shockwave blasted up the corridor, and he blinked.
“That wasn’t fire, but air. What the hell was—”
The other magical signatures vanished abruptly as Ceria hit another with an [Ice Spike] and unleashed a torrent of electricity. She called out.
“Looks like the [Mage] has pulled back their mana. Not sure what that spell was. The Circlet’s never seen it before.”
Well, I don’t like that. But you could hide the effects of a spell with a Skill. Pisces just frowned.
“Weird mana. I almost thought I recognized—”
“Hey up there! We’ve got the treasure of Yad’thuv! It’s over! Let us out peacefully and we’ll share a bit of it; if not, you’ll have no chance! Deal?”
A voice from below, loud, male, and reasonably confident. The Horns stopped. Ceria muttered.
“Circlet recognizes that voice as the Wildcards. Hey, Leonardo, Kusal, Lareceina! There are a bunch of angry Gold-rank teams behind us, and we’re all on the same side! You’re interfering with [Queen] Yisame’s own quest! How about we settle this without violence? You give us the stuff, we don’t stab you. Deal?”
There was a faint curse from below. Colth was moving down slowly. The damn slope meant he couldn’t see the corridor below, but it seemed to straighten out. Which meant the Horns were descending a ramp while whomever was there had a straight view of them.
Killzone. He hated cracking one, but if he could see what they had…
“The [Queen] isn’t the only person who put a request up for the Tomb, Captain Ceria! We beat a Named-rank team just now, and the summons are on our side! They’re stronger than you want to tangle with, on my word! Let’s call it 75-25?”
“…Sure, we’ll take 75! Listen, you don’t want to be on the Palace’s bad side. Steal from the crown and get killed in your sleep. We’ve got a real Named-ranker on our side.”
Ceria shouted back. Colth squatted down.
<Colth to team. I think I see barricades. Steel. The kind you deploy from bags of holding. Glowing figures behind…but it’s just three of them.>
Not the worst killzone. In fact, only two of Wildcard seemed to be armed. Saying that, though, an arrow cracked off the stone, and Colth leapt up. Then there was a female voice.
“That was one of the summons. Don’t try to sneak down here. There are only four of you, Captain Ceria. The [Queen] is not the deserving party of the Tomb’s legacy.”
That must be Lareceina, the [Mage] who didn’t like Ceria. The half-Elf exhaled.
“Okay then, nothing personal. Colth?”
He walked back up.
“I’m not sure what they’ve got, but the Stitch-folk have bows and wands. Yvlon could rush them, but I don’t like risking that. If you [Ice Wall] and we dive behind it, then it’s a shooting war.”
“Send the Ice Elementals forwards and have Pisces summon more? Snipe them down until we can rush?”
“I don’t have a bow.”
Yvlon complained as Colth deliberated with Ceria. Pisces scratched at the back of his neck.
“All I have is [Shatterbolt] and [Deathbolt]. I don’t want to use either—”
“Break the left barricade with [Shatterbolt], Pisces. They’ll survive one [Deathbolt]. Just do summons. We can send one wave, and if we don’t like what we see, fall back, use mana potions, try again? Just don’t leave cover. I’ll use an [Arrowguard] Skill. Yvlon, I have a spare crossbow and some alchemical weapons.”
“See, this is what we need to buy alchemy for. For when Yvlon’s useless.”
Light voices from Ceria and Colth. Yvlon was crouched, and Pisces was motioning the Skeleton Champions forward, animating his Warbear. Then there was a shout from below.
“Horns—we really don’t want to hurt you. Back off. Last warning.”
The Horns of Hammerad didn’t answer. So, below, the team of three tensed. They were coming. That terrifying team. Who, in their right minds, wanted to fight the Horns of Hammerad?
 
——
 
It was like you could feel them. Auras or something. The coldest [Mage] in the world. A strange, quiet figure, filled with silent, respectful death. And the crawling thunder of a heart beating.
The Silver Killer.
They had seen her in the Coliseum of Monarchs, hadn’t they? And everyone had seen the other broadcasts. Ksmvr of Chandrar. Pisces the Bane…the Village of the Dead.
“Damn. We’re so dead. I wanted them to like us.”
“They’re not good people, Kusal.”
“They’ll kill us. Are we sure we’re doing this, Leo?”
The team of three were new to Gold-rank. They’d only gotten certified after the Adult Creler. Adventurer’s Guilds didn’t like what they didn’t understand, and the trio didn’t have regular classes. Their leader, Leonardo, was far from fearless. But he just stared up the corridor.
“I think we have to try. We’re adventurers. We promised our clients.”
Lareceina nodded, rubbing her fingers together. She was casting. Readying herself…and she knew at least one of the [Mages] above outclassed her. Wistram. She had never had formal training. But her only comment was—
“We have the moral high ground. We have to try.”
Kusal was their [Rogue], if not in class, then how he operated.
“They have the literal high ground. If the Silver Killer jumps us—I’ll try.”
Leonardo nodded.
“Watch out for the one called Colth. He’s supposed to be the real Named-ranker. I’ll do my thing. But we have to attack them first. Everyone ready?”
They nodded, and Leo paused. Then took a breath.
“…I wish Justine was here.”
With her, they would have been fearless. Well, more fearless. But their front line, their stalwart warrior—Wildcard stopped for a second. They would have traded all their levels from the Adult Creler for her.
“They’re casting. We have to go.”
Lareceina spoke and produced her magic. It looked like…a marble. It grew as she poured her mana into it. Fire, swirling around and condensing. Like a [Fireball], but different. Kusal nodded as Leo pulled out his secret weapon. Not the sword he carried, but the real tool he had made, the only thing he was good with. But before that—they stood together.
A group huddle. Leo swung an arm around Kusal’s shoulders, and the young man from Sri Lanka put his arms around Lareceina’s shoulders. She grimaced and held the ball of fire in her palm. She had more little marbles floating around her hand. They winked and glowed. Leo muttered.
“Here we go. [Combined Skill: Ready, Set, Serve].”
He walked backwards, and Lareceina turned. She lobbed the orb of fire at Kusal, and the [Rogue] fielded it with his gloved hands. Straight at Leo. The orb spun through the air—and he hit it.
He jumped up, and the tennis racket, a wooden frame and strings, hit the orb of fire. It compressed as he connected with it.
[Racket: Bounce Magic]. [Ricochet Strike]. [Ball: Acceleration]. 
The [Tennis Champion] hit the ball down, aiming it for the end of the corridor, and saw it flash across the ground. And bounce—
He heard a voice.
“Incom—”
Then the orb exploded. The backdraft of flames echoed down the corridor, and Leo landed. Lareceina had cast a spell so his ears didn’t ring, so he heard voices.
“—hell was that? Wall spells and—”
A second ball flicked towards him. Same height; Leo wondered if the Horns had spread out. So he hit the ball at the walls instead of the ground. Bounce it up in a zig-zag—
This time, it was made of lightning. The boom made dust fall from the ceiling. There was a shift. One of the summoned Stitch-folk warriors was gazing at him.
“Sorry.”
That was all Leo said. Then the third ‘tennis ball’ flicked into the air. He struck it again, sending it up the tunnel at a new angle. This was the plan they’d come up with when they’d been briefed on the tomb. Lareceina’s magic and their unique classes…
The Horns would have to come down. The third orb was made of something green, and it burst without a sound as he hit it and shot it up. So, Leo was waiting, racket raised, sweat coating the leather grip.
Come on. Come on—
 
——
 
Pisces had no idea what was happening. His ears were ringing, and only Yvlon had saved him from the third orb. It had exploded into a shower of leaves or something—so sharp and fast that they had cut his cheek open. But Yvlon had tackled him. Now, she threw him up the corridor.
“Get back! The walls—”
“They’re not working!”
[Ice Wall]. Ceria’s trick. It was raised, but the second orb had bounced over it. Colth was swearing.
“They’re ricocheting the magic at us! Wall the entire corridor!”
Ceria did—just in time for the fourth orb to hit it. Another bloom of flames, but this time, Pisces felt nothing. He got up shakily.
“What kind of attack was…?”
“I don’t recognize the magic! The circlet says it’s just…compressed elemental mana! It’s like being attacked by a [Barbarian] with a club!”
“Well, it’s working! If they can bounce that attack…Ceria, can you ensconce yourself in ice and fire out? No—one-way barrier spells! We have to get down there!”
Colth was pointing, Ceria cursing.
“I can do it, but it’s going to take a lot of m—”
The fifth orb hit the ice wall, and Pisces flinched. But Ceria’s magic was too strong, and the backblast of air visibly shifted the dust. He coughed.
“This is their long-ranged attack. If we close, we have to fight the summons. Too risky. Let’s fall back and—”
“If we do, the other teams will flank us, and then we’re dead.”
Colth interrupted Pisces, shaking his head. He turned to Ceria.
“Drop the walls there. I’ll counter. We throw alchemy, move in. Then barrier up and just push at them. Use two-thirds of your mana on it.”
“Got it. You’d better keep them suppressed. If w—”
The sixth orb hit the [Ice Wall], and Pisces, who had been backing up despite the [Ice Walls], remained on his feet.
No one else did. His head was ringing. He saw Ceria go stumbling past him and reached for her. But her ice wall…
Her ears had red coming out of them. He realized there was a ringing in his ears. Pisces saw Yvlon shaking her head and Colth mouthing oaths.
They had lobbed something up at the Horns, and Pisces thought he’d even recognized the magic.
Sound.
It went straight through a wall of ice. He squinted down, then turned his head. Clapped his hands over Yvlon’s face.
The light orb was blinding. Pisces blinked the spots out of his eyes, and his hearing returned.
“[—tore Hearing]! There goes one of my higher-level free Skills! We cannot hold this corridor! Ceria, barriers!”
“Tree rot in my—[Threefold Arcane Barrier]! [Moving Spell]! Go, go!”
The Horns charged down the corridor into two more orbs, which detonated on Ceria’s barriers. Pisces saw the team at last. A trio spread out down the corridor. And Stitch-folk. A lot more Stitch-folk, all glowing like Revi’s summons. Colth took one glance at them and began swearing.
“[Mass Appraisal]. Fuck, fuck, fuck—some of them are equivalent to Level 40s! [Explosive Vial]!”
“[Ice Lances]! Pisces!”
“Skeletons, arise and charge!”
He sent his undead forwards, and the corridor exploded into violence. Yvlon grimly shot a crossbow as the Stitch-folk returned fire. At least the orbs stopped coming; Wildcard took cover, and he heard shouts.
“They’re coming! Lareceina, get rid of the skeletons! I’ve got the spells!”
“Incoming alchemy! [Neutralize Object]!”
One of them leapt up, caught the vial, and it went out. It vanished, and Colth grunted.
“Bag of holding?”
He fired a shortbow.
“[Double Shot]. [Renock Arrow]. [Piercing Shot]. [Explosive Tip]. [Jolt Shot]—”
He hit at least one of the Stitch-folk as the skeletons and elementals thundered down the corridor. But they were only halfway there when Pisces glanced down. Those little things he’d seen earlier. The trapped…what?
Orbs? Small as marbles. They were on the walls. And he shouted.
“Fall back! Skeletons, fall—”
The first Skeleton Champion was running backwards when the orbs detonated. When Pisces got up, he only saw bones and pieces of magical ice melting. Ceria bared her teeth.
“Hey, kid. Let’s dance.”
She fired the first [Ice Lance] at Lareceina. The impact blew the [Mage] off her feet. She must have had a barrier spell, but Ceria’s magic was Tier 4. She fired a second one as Kusal dragged Lareceina back behind the steel barricades. Her second spell dented the steel barrier. Her third one was aimed at one of the Stitch-folk.
The Captain of Wildcard had a strange object in his hands. It was no weapon that Pisces had ever seen. It looked like a net, only someone had stretched the webbing taut over a wide oval. Leo swung it as the [Ice Lance] came at him.
Then he bounced the [Ice Lance] back straight at Ceria’s face. It flashed back faster than the [Cryomancer] had shot it.
The impact against the [Arcane Barrier] knocked down one of the shields. Pisces saw the second barrier wavering in the air and swore. He fired a [Deathbolt]—and the [Tennis Champion] swung his racket and shot it back at Pisces.
“What the hell is that? Spell reflection!”
Ceria scrambled up. She tried a volley of [Ice Spikes], and the frantic tennis racket didn’t manage to reflect any, but Leo parried eight in quick succession, sending the spikes breaking on the walls and ground. Colth stared.
“I’ve never seen that in my—”
“Earthers. They’re Earthers.”
Pisces breathed. He gazed at his team.
“We have to stop fighting—”
“They have the drop on us! Take out that [Mage] and we can snipe the summons! Combination attacks—now!”
Colth turned and roared at him. Pisces aimed at the young woman and hesitated again. [Deathbolt]? No—he fired a [Bone Dart] as he leaned out of cover and blinked.
Instead of one shard of bone, his spell split into three, each one of which curved and homed in on the young woman, who recoiled as two hit a glowing disc of green, her personal shields. She retreated instantly, hiding behind the steel barricades, and Colth swore at Pisces.
“What was that? I burned three Skills on—”
“I’m not [Deathbolting] her!”
Rather than argue, Colth took aim himself, then ducked. Pisces saw an arrow graze Colth’s helmet. It hit a wall and kept bouncing, leaving jagged pock marks as it blew pieces of stone out of the wall. That was an arrow?
Fired by the Stitch-folk. Yvlon swore as she raised her metal arms and made shields.
“The summons are pretty tough too—”
Even without Skills, they had some kind of power from when they’d been alive! Colth snap-fired an arrow, drew two hand crossbows, fired them, tossed four flasks—none of the alchemical items made it to the Stitch-folk. One literally charged into a Potion of Blast and emerged out the other side.
A glowing Stitch-man, Hemp, teeth locked together in a snarl. His teeth were pointed, and he had a wolf-like helmet. He stalked back into line as Colth kept swearing. Pisces wanted to go already, but Ceria put her hands up.
“That’s it. [Conjure Tidal Wave].”
Magic pulsed around her, and she threw a wave of water down the corridor. Alarmed shouts—Pisces stared at Ceria as she pumped more mana into that one spell then he thought he could—
“Kusal, absorb the water!”
“I can’t! It’s too much—”
They were scrambling back as Ceria cackled. Water was freezing behind the wave in a mimicry of how she’d taken out the [Slavers]. Pisces saw Wildcard’s [Mage] brace, aiming at the [Tidal Wave]—when it split.
A glowing sword cleaved the wave in half, which in turn split the torrent of water. That still would have done little to the rest of the water except for the explosion of steam that came rushing back towards the Horns. Pisces shielded his face and fired [Bone Darts] rapidly down the corridor as he raised a [Bone Wall]—when he could see again, there they were.
Glowing Stitch-folk. One was holding a staff, another a greatsword. Ceria stopped cackling.
“Oh come on. No wonder Yisame wants this lot.”
The [Mage] pointed at Ceria, and there was a flare of light. Yvlon threw herself up.
“Ceria! Watch—”
The half-Elf caught half of the fiery blast that Yvlon took across her armor. She cried out, landing, but rolled upright, searching for…
Ceria’s illusion vanished. She reappeared to the side, crouched behind her own wall of ice.
“Damn, Yvlon! You okay?”
“Underarmor caught it. That’s…”
“[Take Cover]!”
Colth shouted, and Pisces saw another bouncing orb of magic come their way. This time, Colth caught it and threw it back—but arrows joined the orb. One hit Pisces in the shoulder, and he slammed against the ground. The Stitch-folk summons were ricocheting their arrows too?
“Pisces!”
Colth checked him, but Pisces’ arm was one huge bruise; no blood. Stalker’s underarmor again. Even so, Pisces was rattled as he pressed himself against the wall. Ceria snarled.
“That’s it! Circlet, [Extreme Spell]. [Frostbolt Swarm]! [Whiteout Blizzard]!”
She leaned out from behind her barrier, aiming only her wand out as Pisces felt the mana surge again. She began firing blue flickers of light, like Frost Faeries, so cold they made Pisces’ skin hurt. Her other hand was holding a miniature cyclone of snow and ice to her chest.
Dualcasting? And what Skill was—
Two of the summons vanished instantly, freezing over then disappearing in flashes of light. Wildcard took cover as another summon went down, and Ceria aimed f—
A series of four explosions and a Tripvine Bag—three of them tied together—exploded against her [Ice Walls]. They sent Ceria sprawling forwards, and Pisces leapt up.
“Ceria!”
This time, he fired an elongated [Flame Swathe] and a [Deathbolt] straight through a summoned Stitch-folk’s chest. That kept them down, and Colth hacked away the vines to reveal—
Ceria only had a scraped face and bloody nose, but she was cursing as she ripped vines off her.
“My spell!”
She’d lost focus, and all the mana she’d poured into her overcharged spell was gone. Colth snapped at her.
“We need to know when you’re casting! You’re too much of a target when they sense—”
Pisces saw Ceria slap one hand against the broken [Ice Wall], and it grew, doubling in thickness. She snarled back at Colth.
“Yeah, yeah, I get it! Rebuilding the barriers. [Frozen Armor]. Some cover? I’m going to [Snap Freeze] them!”
Pisces was about to scream at her—they were from Earth! Erin’s people. But—he had never seen any Earthers who were actually adventurers or even warriors. Then his eyes flicked up.
“Watch out!”
The [Arcane Barrier] spell that Ceria was rebuilding went down as eight spells hit it in quick succession and blew the corridor to pieces. No, not spells…whatever Lareceina was throwing.
Just compressed mana. They weren’t as powerful as [Fireballs] or [Lightning Bolts], but he realized the young woman was just…flicking them at his team. With her thumbs. As if they were marbles.
Ingenious. How many did she have? She was like Saliss, but magic. Could he do that? The [Necromancer] had to abandon his [Bone Walls] and used [Flash Step] to dodge away. He was of the opinion they had to fall back, but Yvlon just stepped out from behind one of Ceria’s [Ice Walls]. She’d gone silent as the ranged firefight had progressed. Now she eyed the glowing Stitch-folk entrenched with Wildcard.
“They’re summoned beings, right, Colth?”
“Right—”
“Then I’m their dance partner. [Aspect of Silver]. Cover me.”
“No, don’t—damnit!”
Yvlon’s skin morphed to silver, and she charged out of cover and straight at the Wildcards. She never made a sound—just ran at them as arrows bounced off her skin. Two orbs flicked at her and exploded—
The magic did nothing to Yvlon’s silver body. Ceria was shouting.
“Horns of Hammerad—let’s get them!”
Pisces hesitated. He cast [Invisibility], unable to follow Yvlon’s insane charge. Colth was trying to cover him with his bow. Then he saw Yvlon grinning.
 
——
 
The Silver Killer was coming. She ran through Lareceina’s magic without even flinching. Leo pivoted, but he was terrified.
The Stitch-folk summons charged, and Yvlon hit one—they planted a glowing sword in her throat, or tried to. The magical blade shattered, and she punched through their chest.
Stuck clawed fingers in another and ripped them apart. Her arms exploded into spikes as Wildcard retreated, shouting.
“Don’t let her get near you!”
She was like the Terminator! Her arms scythed through magic and the summoned warriors, and Leo was ordering the rest back—he saw a metal face appear out of the fading magic.
She was grinning. Teeth bared. She charged straight at him, and her arms had turned into sword-blades. All he had was a tennis racket. Leo braced—and Kusal leapt out from behind the ruined barricades.
Sneak attack. The Silver Killer twisted. She even blinked at the strange object that Kusal held. A little, black rectangular box—well, two of them. Duct-taped together.
“[Gadget: Overload].”
The [Rogue of Tricks] ducked one of Yvlon’s arms as she twisted. Then he hit her with the stun guns. The Silver Killer jerked, freezing in place as he unloaded enough electricity from the self-defense weapons from Earth to knock down a Manticore.
Smoke rose from her skin as she twitched—then swung. Muzzily, but Kusal leapt back, eyes wide.
“Oh my—”
The Silver Killer kept swinging at him, then twisted around. She’d stopped charging Leo, which meant it was his turn. The [Tennis Champion] spoke.
“[Grand Slam].”
For a second, his racket felt like it was that of a Giant’s. He hit her with it and sent her flying down the corridor. Then shouted.
“My arm!”
It was like trying to hit a piece of metal! But it sent her reeling and let his team fall back. Lareceina flicked more orbs, and they detonated in midair as Colthei the Supporter sniped them down.
“Kusal! Reset!”
“On it!”
The [Rogue] leapt up. He whirled something in his hands. Then flung it out. It was just a bag made of faded leather, stamped with a bit of magic. He’d attached a rope to it and tugged at the right moment. The Silver Killer, storming back at them, saw Kusal heave, and his bag of holding inverted—disgorging everything it had.
[Bag of Holding: Quadruple Capacity]. The stones, sand, camel manure—everything that Kusal had dumped into it—exploded down the corridor. The [Rogue] leapt away, then grabbed a second bag of holding and dumped two more barricades down.
“[Second Bag of Holding]—is any of it working?”
“I think so! Where’s the [Supporter]?”
The Silver Killer was buried and fighting out of the sand. Her [Aspect of Silver] finally wore off, and Lareceina shouted.
“Let’s get them! [Ready, Set, Serve]!”
She formed another orb of mana and tossed it at Kusal. He fielded it up, and Leo hesitated. Where—
The [Necromancer] appeared, and Leo blocked the sword-slash. The orb landed by their feet, and both men leapt back, but Lareceina refused to let it detonate.
“Here we go—[Gadgets: Recharge]!”
Kusal shouted. He saw Yvlon running at them and jumped out of cover again. She tried to back up, but his stun guns fired, and the electricity arced to the nearest grounding point; her metal armor and arms.
This time, she shouted, but Leo was fighting for his life. The [Necromancer]’s rapier was slashing, and a tennis racket was not meant for—
Pisces thrust the tip through the strings and nearly lost it when Leo twisted it, trying to disarm him. In response, Pisces pointed his free hand, and flames burst out.
They burned across a shield that Leo had drawn. The flames baked the young man’s skin, but he just let go of the racket and drew a sword. Pisces had to shake the tennis racket off his rapier and dodged the slash.
The [Tennis Champion] swung again and saw Pisces going for a parry. So he whispered.
“[Spinning Blade].”
His sword twisted around in the air and knocked the rapier aside. Too fast to parry. Pisces lunged under the blade and fired a [Deathbolt]. Blocked by Leo’s shield—both warriors’ weapons were out of line. So Leo went for a kick to the balls.
Pisces leapt back from that. Turned his head—
Lareceina’s orb of compressed air blew him off his feet. The [Magus of Compression] turned, and her thumbs flicked eight orbs into Yvlon Byres’ chest. The Silver Killer braced—but Lareceina just turned and hit Pisces with three orbs. One green, one white, one red—
“Leo!”
Kusal. Leo turned and saw ice was covering Kusal’s armor. He was freezing in place! The [Ice Mage]. Leo pulled one of Lareceina’s magic orbs from his belt. He took aim at her—and Colth took him out at the legs.
Leo hit the ground, and the Ultimate Supporter’s blades were at his neck.
“Stand down! Your Captain’s a dead man if he moves!”
Colthei had used his armor to move, invisibly, and half the Stitch-folk summons were gone. And he had his blades at Leo’s throat. Kusal was nearly frozen in place too. But Ceria had three Stitch-folk warriors surrounding her as she formed a narrow wall of ice around her they were attacking.
“Stand down or your team dies!”
Colth bellowed at the remaining member of Wildcard on her feet. Lareceina was projecting a rippling barrier of mana in front of her, back to a wall. She didn’t move.
“Stitch-folk of Yad’thuv, hold. Kill him and your teammates die.”
Ceria broke out of her ice walls as Colth hesitated.
“I’m fine. Your team’s the goner if—shit.”
She turned, and Lareceina pointed at the Silver Killer, who’d gone unusually still. She was gazing at the eight glowing marbles of magic stuck to her front. Most were lightning. Pisces was lying on the ground, hands raised. He was sweating as he stared at a glowing green orb on his chest. Colth muttered an oath as Leo groaned.
“Damnit. Standoff. We’ve got your team dead to rights.”
“Everyone but you is surrounded or dead. You’ll never get all the summons. You’ve lost.”
Lareceina shot back. Colth sneered at her. Leo croaked.
“Hey, Lareceina?”
“What, Leo?”
“Timeout. Let’s negotiate.”
 
——
 
The two people who wanted to negotiate least were Colth and Lareceina. Probably because they weren’t the ones in mortal danger.
Pisces quite appreciated Captain Leo’s words. Because he was pretty sure he could dispel whatever was in Lareceina’s orb. It really was just…compressed mana. He’d never seen a compression spell like this, though.
Compress magic? It wasn’t something Wistram [Mages] thought of. Why bother? The spell itself was simple, though he felt like Lareceina had put a ‘lock’ on it. The equivalent of tying a bit of string into a knot. Not hard to figure out—just hard to dispel in a firefight.
His issue was that he wasn’t sure if dispelling it would release the magic. And he didn’t want to try it at the moment.
Yvlon? She was just eying the orbs of lightning, and she and he had the same thought. If she had her [Aspect of Silver], it might work, but without it? Yvlon wasn’t that tough.
Ceria eyed the Stitch-folk warriors still aiming glowing blades at her. She had her ice armor spell on, but from the way she grimaced, she understood their position was bad. Colth might have had his blades at Leo’s throat, but…
“It’s mutual destruction. Drop your weapons; we have Queen Yisame on our side.”
“You’re the ones in trouble. The Gold-rankers above are coming, and I don’t think they like you.”
Lareceina shot back. Ceria flicked some hair out of her eyes.
“True, but in that scenario, they deal with us, then you. Look, we can stand here uncomfortably for a few hours, but all that will happen is that either a Gold-rank team will come down and we’ll have to deal with that, or Yisame’s people come down and you’re double-dead.”
She smiled, and Pisces wondered how fast Yisame’s people would actually get to this remote location. But Lareceina folded her arms.
“That’s not likely. What’s likelier is that the Gold-rank team comes down and we team up with them and split the loot while dealing with you. Or our employers come down, and then you’re in trouble.”
Their employers? Ceria frowned.
“Okay, hold on. We’re employed by the palace. Queen Yisame? Sovereign ruler of all she beholds and a lot more since this place is huge? You’re making an enemy of the kingdom. This is their tomb.”
The young Human woman’s eyes flashed.
“That’s their claim, but we’re being employed by the Hemp-folk who actually live here! This is their ancestral tomb! We took this contract to keep the [Queen] or any other faction from looting the warriors that belong to the Hemp!”
When Pisces heard that, he actually raised his head. And a few things clicked. Wait a second, the Reed-folk…he had a sinking feeling made only worse when he heard Colth curse.
“Aw, Creler eggs. We didn’t do our due diligence—”
It hadn’t occurred to Pisces that Yisame would send him to…loot someone else’s tomb. The [Necromancer] rasped.
“So am I to understand that the Hemp are, ah, coming for their ancestral souls?”
For answer, Lareceina fished something out from around her neck. It was…a little amulet? It was very stylish, and when Pisces eyed it, he thought the design on front resembled that of the Tomb of Yad’thuv’s architecture.
“They gave us the key-seals so the summoned warriors would fight with us. I would say that establishes their claim to this site above anyone else’s, even the Crown’s.”
So would he. Pisces groaned as Colth swore under his breath. Lareceina spoke directly to Ceria.
“Reinforcements from the local area are likely to be on our side. That is my summation of the odds. We have the treasure, and our teams are stalemated. So. Are you going to negotiate or explode?”
Lareceina had a way with words Pisces admired. He was making expressions at Ceria to negotiate. She was staring at his chest—
“Try to dispel my magic and it’ll go off, Ice Squirrel.”
The young woman’s eyes narrowed, and Yvlon sighed.
“Ceria. This is my fault for charging in. What do you want?”
Leo croaked.
“You go your way, we go ours—no backstabbing, and we’ll give you the summons under Level 40.”
“No deal.”
“Oh, come on, Springwalker—”
Pisces called at her, and Ceria shouted back.
“Fifty-fifty.”
“Please, your team can pretend they’re all atrophied. We’ve got three of your teammates dead to rights.”
“We have two of yours. Colth vs Lareceina with a few summoned idiots seems like a good fight to me. Want to find out who survives?”
I’m not going to be one of those people! Stalker’s underarmor might reduce some of the blasts, but his flesh beneath wouldn’t survive those detonations. Yvlon might, but Pisces was glaring at Ceria. However, the [Cryomancer] was in full bluff mode. Lareceina’s eyes flickered to Leo.
“You’d risk your teammates’ lives over treasure? I really do hate you.”
“Hey, maybe I don’t like them that much.”
Ceria ignored Yvlon’s and Pisces’ glares. Lareceina eyed her, and the Stitch-folk with blades pointed at Ceria.
“One of the people in mortal danger is you.”
“Well…maybe I don’t like myself much. Let’s call it 60-40. Including Named-rank spirits.”
Ceria was still haggling. Lareceina just folded her arms.
“All Stitch-folk over Level 40 are ours, and all of the highest-grade artifacts. You can claim the tomb held less powerful spirits. We’re already giving up part of what we were hired to do. Don’t be greedy.”
“Mm…”
The [Cryomancer] was wrinkling up her nose, clearly trying to figure out another angle, when Colth sighed and sheathed one of his daggers.
“Deal. Ceria, take it.”
“Damnit, Colth—fine. Adventurer’s honor.”
“What honor?”
Lareceina just watched as Colth let Leo up, and Kusal finally unfroze. The Stitch-folk warriors stepped back—and only then did she walk over and pick the marbles off Pisces’ chest. She did offer him a hand.
“Sorry, Scourge of Roshal. Your teammate sucks.”
“Ceria does like her mischief. No hard feelings?”
She eyed him silently as her team assembled, and the Horns of Hammerad glanced at each other. Sheepishly, Pisces thought. Yvlon was doing her best gladiator-face, but Colth’s face was one huge scowl. Ceria whispered at them.
“We can’t break our word and double-cross them, can we?”
All three glared at her, and she threw up her hands.
“Alright, fine. Damnit. Fork over the loot, then!”
She stomped over to the Wildcards, and Pisces ruffled at his hair. He knew they’d made tactical errors. Yvlon going in alone. He’d not been in tune with the others. He could have used [Shatterbolt], but he might have killed…Colth was just glancing up above.
“Ceria, situation on your walls? Wildcard, we need to coordinate on getting out of here.”
They nodded, and Pisces leaned against a wall. Yvlon joined him, rubbing at scorch marks on her shoulders.
“Huh.”
“You alright, Yvlon? That was some kind of electricity attack—”
She nodded, wincing.
“Still hurts. I want to know what that was. Earthers?”
“Not the time to discuss that. First, let’s get out of here.”
He muttered. But he hoped the other adventurers were willing to talk. This was not a…a salubrious meeting, Pisces had to admit. But that wasn’t what felt so odd.
It was only when Colth collected several crystals in amber, and Ceria eyed a collection of blades and other tools that Captain Leo turned over, that Pisces felt it.
Ah, of course.
 
<Heroic Quest — The Tomb of Yad’thuv Failed.>
 
It didn’t hit him like a blow. He just exhaled, sniffed, sneezed, and wiped at his hair.
He couldn’t really remember the last time his team had lost.
It didn’t feel great.
 
——
 
Some days you won, some days you lost. Some weeks, some years, even. It was the mark of a seasoned warrior, or person, to recognize that losses, setbacks, were inevitable and not rage or despair entirely at them.
Nuvityn, King of Myths, wasn’t sure if that applied to [Kings]. Because, so often, a good man was not the same as a good ruler.
Perhaps they should be, but what should be was not what was.
For instance, he was sailing to hold an [Innkeeper] and her inn to trial. Whether it was right or wrong—his son was dead. As [King], as father, he would have a reckoning for that.
His army of ten thousand of Erribathe’s famous warriors, Prildor, Tserre, and much of his royal council suited for campaigning were a force to set even the Five Families to alarm. Nuvityn had written ahead, of course, using the power of diplomats to assure the Five Families he was coming not to upset their authority, but to go south.
The Walled Cities he would see about, but he intended to visit Izril and see what had changed. Visit the inn and deliver judgement, right or wrong—and then continue onwards. To the New Lands? To Baleros to find the [Innkeeper]?
That was the plan. There had been hiccups on the way. Not even bad ones; the fact that his company now had a [Princess] of Calanfer in it was not entirely bad. Nuvityn did not love Calanfer at this moment, but Princess Vernoue was youthful, earnest. A refreshingly young voice in love with stories.
And she might even crack the mystery that was Magus Tserre, whom Nuvityn regarded as a [Mage] as legendary as Archmage Eldavin. For she had once been an Archmage herself.
Yes, things had been decent when he had set sail on The Gathering Light, one of Pheislant’s largest trading vessels, to Izril. It, along with several other trade ships, had been paid to carry his army across the changed sea routes to First Landing.
Nuvityn had been hoping for a Treant or some wonders at sea. Perhaps even a [Pirate] attack, but sadly, his days had been largely without event. Oh, there had been dolphins, that magical storm in the distance, ships, even Drowned Folk, who had risen to talk and trade with his famous army, but nothing extraordinary. So he had bided his time. He knew how long sea trips were.
…Which was why after two weeks, he had begun wondering how badly the sea currents were changed between Terandria and Izril. The [Captain] was a good man, Level 37. But despite his speed Skills, the winds and currents just didn’t have them seeing land. Nuvityn had accepted the man’s hospitalities and spent the time talking with Prildor and Tserre when she emerged, catching them up on recent events.
That had taken a week before he noticed his crew going to ask [Sailors] what was going on. Then Nuvityn had sensed… a problem.
Even becalmed, three weeks from the southwestern edge of Terandria to First Landing was too long. And yet, Captain Giltreder swore the winds were good and that he’d found the right currents. Yet when he deployed his spyglass and checked the stars—everything must be muddled because he could neither see shore nor figure out their location.
“It looks as if we’re only two days from First Landing. But I do not see it. And…this makes no sense, Your Majesty.”
After two days, the [Captain] showed the King of Myths his chart. It was a neat progression from Pheislant’s capital harbor to First Landing…and then onto Izril’s shores. They should have been at Invrisil by now. Nuvityn stared at the map.
“And you are sure, sir?”
There were numerous cross outs and question marks. Captain Giltreder was sweating.
“Your Majesty, I have read the position of the stars and my best [Storm Sailors] swear that they feel us going the right way—but it makes no sense! And sire—”
He looked around and lowered his voice.
“When I check the winds, and currents, I think they are too strong.”
“Due to the magical storm? Could that have thrown us off?”
“Entirely possibly, and I cast myself upon your mercy, Your Majesty. But I mean that in the sense of other ships. That Drowned Folk ship we saw—when it caught the wind, I had thought it were blowing slightly crosswise to ours, and far slower. We have had…good wind for a week now. And the current appears becalmed at times, but I feel as though we are moving faster than I think. Yet it appears still.”
For proof veritas of this, Nuvityn went to the bow and saw the waters did indeed seem calm with little wind. Yet…Captain Giltreder motioned, and, covertly, one of his [Sailors] tossed something down.
A…bucket. It splashed, then jerked out of the woman’s hands. Silently, the King of Myths spoke.
“Why covertly?”
“Because when we lower it normally, sire, it dips into the water and comes out unlike that.”
Nuvityn didn’t like the way Captain Giltreder was speaking. Nor the sudden suspicion in the back of his mind. He recalled his own feelings.
I can sense the auras of distant people, and I swear I had felt the Five Families’, though they are not royals. The same when I beheld the other great events of note. Yet I do not sense them from the right…places…
Strange. If you had a ship that appeared to be moving at a decently high-level [Captain]’s will, yet had oddities with the observable wind and stars and waters beneath you—what could muddle even the wits of a [Storm Sailor]? Only a great foe, perhaps. A Skill? A magical storm of passing weirdness?
Or maybe…
 
——
 
Magus Tserre had her rocking chair and sat in her cottage, which had folded up and sat down on the deck of The Gathering Light. Vernoue, her apprentice that Tserre had still not really acknowledged, was balancing on one foot on the rocking ship and casting spells.
“Focus, Princess. Cast one hundred spells in the hour or we’ll have to come up with a punishment for tonight.”
“I’m…not…quitting, Magus Tserre! So can you please stop trying to make me?”
Vernoue appeared distinctly seasick, but she was keeping with the magic. Tserre saw Nuvityn and his people approaching and sighed, closing her book.
“Whyever would you think I was doing that? I’m simply bringing you up to an acceptable focus. You and I have limited time. So enjoy the training we used to give [Mages] who were about to be sent to Rhir.”
Vernoue made a whimpering sound, but she turned as Nuvityn called out.
“Magus Tserre, good morning.”
“A fine day to you, King of Myths.”
She replied blandly, and everyone stared at her. Not really welcomingly. Even Nuvityn’s face was clouded.
“Is it, Magus? I have just spoken to my people, and I am troubled by some reports.”
“Oh, what might those be? I am, of course, at your service.”
He grunted.
“So you claim. Yet, Magus, it appears the interference from the magical storm still lingers. Scrying spells do not work on us.”
“Such storms are beyond any [Archmage] in power. Even Level 80 [Druids] would barely match such awe inspiring magic, Your Majesty.”
“Fair enough. Yet we are three weeks at sea when we should have been one at the longest.”
“Perhaps we are catching new currents changed by these New Lands, or the storm sent us to sea, Your Majesty. It is hard to navigate the open ocean.”
Indeed, the blue-green water around them was impossible to use to place where they were; a [Sailor]’s nightmare. Tserre pointed up.
“Without scrying spells, I suggest using the stars.”
“Which is what the good [Captains] have done. Strangely, they have not led us to shore. It almost appears, Magus, as if something odd is happening to our vessel.”
She sipped from a teacup as Vernoue stopped balancing on one foot. Now, even the 5th Princess of Calanfer was staring at Magus Tserre. But the old half-Elf’s face didn’t move one whit.
“Disturbing, Your Majesty. Should I look into the issue?”
It was Prildor who sighed.
“Tserre…”
“Yes, Prildor? I require some kind of word aside from my name.”
The half-Elf stared blandly at her two chickens until Nuvityn spoke.
“Magus Tserre. Would you kindly drop whatever illusions you are casting? I order it by the Kingdom of Myths. An authority you may not well recognize. But by our pact—I would consider it the bare minimum to keep trust.”
His eyes glinted as he folded his arms. Voreca, Miihey, Andromeda, the leaders of Erribathe’s warriors all gazed at Tserre. She just sipped from her teacup and glanced off the portside bow.
“Oh, very well.”
She didn’t snap her fingers or tap her cane or…one second, the waters behind her were bright, clear, and calm. The next?
Rain hit Vernoue in the face. Rain—and she saw land. Dry land. Arid. Yellowed, not the greens she had expected, or First Landing’s harbor she recalled from being a girl. The geography was the wrong color. Yellow and…
Sandy.
Sand, which as some people might observe, got everywhere. But which was also more endemic, more common, to a certain continent than, say, Izril. The rain hit Captain Giltreder in the face, and he blinked at the distant shoreline. Only visible thanks to extreme magical magnification spells. Perhaps still days from the ships reaching shore. But they were here instead of…
Giltreder keeled over backwards onto the deck. Nuvityn’s head turned, slowly, and then he stared at the city in the distance. It had a harbor, yes. Even ships. But…Tserre spoke.
“I believe rations are getting low, given our numbers and the unexpected voyage. Perhaps we should put ashore, Your Majesty?”
“Tserre. Where—is this?”
Prildor choked, and King Nuvityn stared at the distant flags. He eyed the crowns united under one larger one, the dry ground, and then turned his head.
Tserre sat there as the port city of Medain drifted past them. She smiled behind the teacup she raised to her mouth, and only Vernoue, open-mouthed in horror, saw her expression.
“Incredibly, we appear to be closer to Ceria than I thought. We might as well ask about her.”
Then, it occurred to the King of Myths that he might have erred, prevailing on an ancient mage of old. Magus Tserre had appeared entirely reasonable, willing to put his desires before her own pressing obligations.
He really should have remembered what old damn [Mages] were like.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Notes:
Hey, I have a lot to talk about! In order of priorities, firstly I do have an AMA planned on r/Fantasy on the 13th. So be there to celebrate the book launch! If you want to ask a question with spoilers for the plot, I might not answer fully, but go ahead and just spoiler tag them so new readers don’t read anything they shouldn’t.
Second…I’m back! From my travels! I wrote a short blog post about how it was to sign so much, but my shoulders STILL hurt. Not bad, and the team was very accommodating and kept asking if I needed breaks or snacks, but I was trying to sign everything.
It turns out signing is hard as shit. I prefer writing for 10 hours, frankly. Signing is uniquely stressful on my limbs, and it’s less fun to write the same thing over and over. But I got what I could done, and I do hope everyone who wants a copy of the bookplate gets one.
Maybe I should have taken a second week off, though. Travel gets to me, and I’ve run out of my backlog; there’s no Rickel chapter prepped, and I could only just finish editing the Horns chapter five minutes ago because I know more of their plot.
Moving forwards I’ll split chapters and release shorter ones because I need to rebuild my backlog. But this is the final push towards the book launch. After this chapter, it’s out…and so I have an appeal!
If you would, consider reviewing the books on Barnes & Noble, Amazon, and wherever they’re sold? That helps a huge amount, and if you do some writing, it’ll show new readers what there is to love about the series. I know I keep asking you for help, but I really do appreciate it, and we’re almost there.
It’s nerve wracking, but I have held the books, and I know they’re real. Now, it’s only a matter of waiting until they’re out in all the stores. Any review helps! It feels like I’m back to being a younger, newer author again, and I got this far with your support, so I’m asking again. Let’s celebrate on the 11th.
—pirateaba

10.73 H (2026-08-15)

(If you missed it, The Wandering Inn is now in bookstores! So is Beware of Chicken—the hour of web serials has come to print! Thank you for your support and get a copy if you have space on your shelves! —pirateaba)
<Innktober is coming again and they have a survey to fill out if you have a moment! https://forms.gle/i1ycwLSxKPq8A8HG9>
 
Trigger Warning: Click here for details.
 
 
“I’m bored.”
The problem with being a [King] was that the unguarded statement echoed. It was an offhanded comment as he yawned and went from his command tent down the line of soldiers. A [Strategist] mentioned it to the [Archers] firing flaming arrows skywards, setting trails of burning lights through the sky.
The air—choked and thick with burnt flesh and smoke–was hard to breathe in as the infantry stormed the walls. The cavalry circled like wolves, dueling the chariots trying to break the siege. Both ran over the dead, pressing armor and blood into the sand.
Nevertheless, amidst the fighting were men and women armed with chains. They walked with barrier spells up, fearlessly taking prisoners. Administering first aid with expertise—not mercy. [Slave Takers] picking the battlefield for the best spoils before they expired.
The King of Destruction’s words were carried by a line of infantry climbing the [Light Bridges] instead of ladders, storming a breach in the walls where the defenders lay dead. A [Mage] heard it while retreating to regenerate mana. When they fought forwards, umbrellas raised, setting screaming Stitch-folk ablaze, one of them carried it to the front of the fighting.
There, champions of Nerrhavia’s Fallen were trying to duel a pair of blademasters, who cut down all comers without slowing. A dance that had lasted three hours. Orthenon the Steward and Mars the Illusionist stopped only once when they heard that comment. The [Vanguard], who had killed over a thousand defenders of one of Nerrhavia’s fortress-bastions, brushed at her hair which showed none of the gore adorning her actual body and the floor. She threw down her sword and, to the defenders’ incredulity, stopped her advance and stormed backwards.
Orthenon scowled before issuing curt orders for the attackers to hold the line. He fell back as well.
Outside, Flos Reimarch sensed the battle for the fortress, another of Nerrhavia’s border citadels, slacken. He winced and sighed. Sometimes, he didn’t want people to hear every word he said.
 
——
 
Sometimes, the King of Destruction and his vassals quarrelled. It was usually him and Takhatres or him and Orthenon, who seemed to have the most strife. Amerys could grate, but any one of Flos’ Seven had been known to war with him betimes.
Mars did it, funnily enough, with pure passive aggressiveness. She sipped from a cup of water with a straw in it as Flos remonstrated with her.
“Mars, I meant the war, not your heroics. Please, we need this fortress taken or they’ll send another damn army, and we’ll have to retreat.”
“I don’t know, my drink isn’t cool enough. I think I’ve sprained my fragile throat.”
He personally snagged ice cubes and dumped them in her cup. She sipped again.
“Now they’re dirty.”
The King of Destruction sighed. He stepped away, and Mars nearly put down her cup; her face fell, but Orthenon held out an arm, and she pretended to be studying her cup by the time Flos came around.
“Mars, it was not an instruction for you to fight harder. Do you think I would have claimed that?”
“I could have taken the citadel faster. But I’m tired, and we need to level the soldiers and not waste my gear.”
“And never did I think to instruct you on the ways of war. Allow me to explain.”
“Of course, who am I to gainsay His Majesty in any way?”
She beamed at him, and Flos raked at his hair. He pressed his fingers together.
“I meant it in the sense of recent events. The Horns. The battle at the Meeting of Tribes—the Winter Solstice, terrible as it was. Were these not events to shake the heart?”
“It did get my heart pumping.”
Mars admitted grudgingly. Flos plied her with another cup of wine, which she refused hesitantly.
“I have to get back on the walls…”
“Indulge us both a moment, Mars.”
She sipped after a second, and he did likewise. Then they traded cups and took a gulp of each other’s. He and she smiled at the Chandrarian tradition.
“It was that damn Goblin King which reminded me I had never met one. And one appears and…! The sight of it, Mars. Now, think of our war here. We are winning.”
“Winning while the Empire of Sands grows in strength and sends armies at us. They’ll have one here soon, despite all Takhatres did.”
Orthenon put in. Flos grimaced.
“Between that and the oddities Trey suspects in Khelt—yes, there are events of notice, Orthenon. None rouse my passions. Remember the Nerrhavia’s Fallen of old?”
“Armies of Level 40 experts and Djinni? Facing armies literally a million strong? You had just hired me and I had to lead the offensive against all that. Plus, Mars came at you nineteen times before she switched sides. Takhatres had just joined, and he was always going off on his own…”
Orthenon’s face was a full grimace of distaste. Flos himself shuddered.
“Dead gods, yes! A nightmare! The only good battle was the million-army one. That Great General was so daft as to think he could field it and it wouldn’t be a giant, bloated carcass starving him of supplies. That was the only fun battle with no great sorrows. But the rest had my heart aflame. Now, look at them.”
He stared out of his war tent.
“It’s just Hemp. No one of a true level wants to fight us.”
“They don’t want to die. They know we’re better at killing. It’s the same reason the Herald of the Forests and the Mage of Rivers never took up against us on the field is because we’d hunt them down. Everyone remembers the old conquests.”
“So we just fight through the lowest-level soldiers. It’s sensible, but that’s why I said that. It does not level us. It is not what you deserve, my champions, and…I fear it is dulling our wits. I am helpless as well.”
Ah. Mars relaxed. Orthenon exhaled.
“Your Majesty has won splendid battles—”
“Bah. Feints and basic strategy. There’s not a single Great General of the lot worth fighting. Queravia would have taken me to pieces.”
Another pause; it was rare to hear him invoke her name, even now. But Flos said it like a man drawing a splinter from his skin and then sighed.
“Queravia. There. And Tottenval too. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had so many of us the first time. Now? We will advance. We are advancing, but it is boring. How many Hemp have turned for us?”
“One in eight.”
“Good. Keep offering them that over chains. I would rather they all turn…but I accepted peace with Nerrhavia’s Fallen the first time instead of taking them all as my vassals and breaking the nation apart. Perhaps it was a mistake. But the last time, they fought like Manticores.”
“If we get to the capital, it may change. Cheer up, Your Majesty. They might send Djinni at us again.”
“Not after I freed them. Go back to the walls if you will it, please, Mars. Let us not shed blood in vain. I just wish I could be there with you. But I don’t have my armor, and even if I have a new sword…”
He touched the one that Silvenia had given him. Flos sat, and Mars tried to cheer him up.
“I, uh, I have some armor that might fit you, Flos—”
“No, no. It’s not Relic-grade, no offense to your armor, Mars. Only you can wear a set and not risk a piercing arrow. I learned my lesson with the King of Duels. I…funny.”
Flos flexed one scarred hand.
“When I was younger, I didn’t mind the lack of active Skills as much. I didn’t need them. I could do more Skill-attacks, too. What was that damn zig-zag Skill?”
“[Criss-cross Cut]?”
“[Typhoon of the Sword Saint]?”
“…Might be a third one. I tried it the other day and nearly threw out my back. I’m stronger than I used to be, but not hardier, and certainly not as fast. Did I really wrestle Djinni back in the day?”
“I remember you fighting one across an entire battlefield for two hours while we tried to pull you two apart.”
Flos sighed.
“Youth really did make up for so much. Now all I’ve got is treachery and wisdom or whatever the damn saying is. Hmm.”
He didn’t continue his train of thought. Just opened and closed his hand. Mars hesitated, glanced at Orthenon, then turned.
“I’ll have the fortress taken by dawn, and we’ll see to you remembering one of your learned Skills, Your Majesty! Thanks for the drink. No hard feelings, eh? Coming, Orthenon? Those soldiers aren’t going to slay themselves, unless Gazi stares at them hard enough.”
She strode out of the room. Orthenon rolled his eyes.
“Coward.”
Flos thought he heard the Steward say that, but when he turned his head, Orthenon just bowed and left. Leaving the King of Destruction alone.
“Lacking.”
He stared at his hand, articulating each finger inwards. As if trying to divine something in his hand’s movements he did not perceive by vision alone. Flos closed his eyes.
“When I heard that bell ring, my soul rang with it. The Horns of Hammerad. What a pity they didn’t wish to stay. Perhaps it was me. A [Dreamer]. Heh.”
He smiled, then stared at his hand again.
“I swear I remember a lesson on this. But it’s been so long. Perhaps I should have gone to Hraace, but I cannot spare myself. Boring.”
His hand twitched again, and Flos imagined a cup of water. He tried to catch a falling drop. Pure imagination falling upon his palm. He sat there in silence, then sighed.
“I don’t…get it. Perhaps I should have taken a year to train. But the moment I awoke—no, my kingdom needed me. I should have never slept. But it occurs to me now, Queravia, that the [King] who returned should have been better, not just the same. You were right, Tottenval. Everyone changes. Drevish. You would have told me that, wouldn’t you?”
The peacemakers and doves of his Seven were gone. The ones who knew how to wield both pen and ink as well as blade and spell. Amerys was the last remaining and she…Flos glanced up.
They were far from the battlefront where she fought, but he fancied he still saw the bolts of lightning she was hurling. She didn’t like fortresses she couldn’t break, and she was venting her fury on the forces of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Since her duel with Archmage Valeterisa. Flos had enjoyed it and thought it good for Amerys, even if it was a loss on multiple fronts. The romance angle seemed to be where it actually stung and Takhatres had been sulking for ages for reasons Flos hadn’t gotten out of him.
“Still, I will need your snippy guidance, Amerys, once we consolidate an actual empire. We may struggle more without Drevish or Tottenval in rulership. Until then…”
He stared at his hand, practicing, because there was nothing more interesting to do. Flos wished the Pedagogia were here. Perhaps the Quarass…?
Then his head rose. In the night, as the fortress’ alarms rang again for the Illusionist and Steward, Flos Reimarch’s gaze turned north.
“What is this…?”
He remained fixed in place until someone came running.
“Your Majesty! Word from the north!”
He turned at once, poised for action, filled with anticipation and—well, loss.
“Khelt?”
But no—it wasn’t Khelt. Trey would have communicated to him. Flos had expected the message to be about those odd Antinium or Fetohep, but the [Messenger] bore more important news still.
“The King of Myths and a fleet of ten thousand from Erribathe has been spotted off the coast of Medain! It seems as if they intend to land—but there was no word of them, nor is Medain prepared for them. Their navy is moving to potentially blockade the port.”
Almost, the King of Destruction smiled. Almost with delight, wonder, suspense—but he jerked his attention down to his hand.
“I see. Leave it until we have more word. They are far north.”
Surprised, the messenger halted, for the King of Destruction might have called the entire warfront back to see. But he just sat there. Studying his hand.
“Your Majesty had longed to see the Army of Myths, sire.”
“Yes. Yes, it was a dream of mine. They never sent forces against me in any numbers, even when the Crusade happened. But I am here. We must not abandon the war.”
So said the older man. The messenger bowed, and Flos added, after a second—
“Besides. The Horns of Hammerad lie south of me, now. They delight my heart too.”
His eyes rose and gleamed in the dark. He had a feeling Chandrar had not seen the last of them. The coliseum was an amusing distraction, on par with Mars’ exploits as a girl.
He could still hear that bell ringing.
The King of Destruction waited, practicing in the long night. Bored until the moment he was not.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad were finished.
Washed.
Done.
They, a team of three Gold-rank adventurers, veterans at least by the standard of how many threats they’d gone up against, and a Named-rank adventurer, had been stalemated by a new Gold-rank team.
Yes, Earthers. Yes, they’d had an advantage and setup. But that was how it started, wasn’t it? Excuses. If it had been any other team, if they’d gone to blood—then Pisces, Yvlon, and possibly Ceria would be dead.
They’d lost ‘it’. And by ‘it’, Pisces assumed Ksmvr. Or perhaps their cohesion. Their teamwork. Their spark.
He’d been up all night, tossing and turning, despite the sumptuous bed Yisame’s people had given him in the closest city. Thinking about how he’d messed up, how his team hadn’t fought together. Seeing those glowing orbs of compressed mana on his chest.
He didn’t like losing. No one did. Pisces couldn’t remember the last time his team had lost a battle like that. When had the last time been? Montressa’s team, yes. They’d fled some battles, but not been defeated for a long while. Incredible, really. Charmed—but it meant he didn’t know how it worked.
Losing.
It felt bad. Not just because Colth had shouted all the above at his team before storming off into his rooms. Yvlon was utterly silent, and Ceria had been cracking jokes, making plans and observations about the Earthers—Pisces had just gone to bed to think.
Bad mood. Failed quest. Yisame had to know, even if the Wildcards had loudly proclaimed the Horns had taken the bounty from the Tomb of Yad’thuv—Pisces wondered how much trouble they were in.
We’ve never failed a quest either. Wait, no, they’d failed to clear some bees out once, but—never something like this.
At some point he realized he was twisted such that his upper body was facing left, and his legs, and waist, right.
That explained the agony in his back. He untwisted and curled up. Rolled around in his sheets. Tried the old blanket half-on, legs and arms splayed free, sleeping move. Got up to pee. Drank some water.
After about fifteen hours of tossing and turning, he got up and checked the time.
Thirty minutes had passed.
Pisces fished around in his bag of holding and found a rare item he seldom used. Which…he probably should have used when the going got hot.
The Wand of Pisces that he had never really used had come from Enchanter Hedault. To his knowledge it was still in Izril, in a certain Gnoll girl’s care. That was fine; it smelled. Mrsha used to carry it around in her mouth. However, after the Coliseum of Monarchs he’d, uh, acquired a wand from one of the dead [Mages]. It wasn’t great, tuned to generalist-fire magic but Colth had insisted he at least have one. Pisces pointed it at his temples.
“[Sleep]. [Sleep]. [Sleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeep].”
He stared ahead and wished spell resistance wasn’t a thing [Mages] got.
 
——
 
Yvlon was awake when Pisces stumbled into the fancy living room of the literal mansion they’d been given. He didn’t see her at first. He was poking around in the pantries for food when she spoke.
“It’s just ingredients—”
“Aaaaablgeh!”
He screamed, leaping back and flailing for his rapier, which he didn’t have. She stared at him. He turned red. She averted her gaze and coughed.
“…Ah, eggs and flour and even milk. One could wish for cereal or something edible.”
“Right. Right. The pantry’s preserved. Would fruits or grains kill them?”
Pisces rummaged around.
“I supposed it’s to encourage you to go and peruse the local markets?”
Yvlon was sitting at a huge, obsidian table; there were glass chairs too, beautifully blown in different colors. The living room connected to the huge sitting room with all kinds of fancy, rich furnishings. Pisces would have happily lived here all his life. It was one of the most gorgeous place he had ever seen.
A shame they’d be gone in the morning. He wanted to investigate the mansion while he was awake, and opened his mouth to say that—when a shadow detached itself from the wall.
“We’re just going to pretend we didn’t hear Pisces scream like that?”
“Whifgha!”
That was the sound of Yvlon’s arms turning into spikes and her leaping out of her chair. Colth was not smiling. He was standing, arms folded, scowling. He did raise an eyebrow at her.
“You two don’t check for rogues. It’s going to get you killed.”
Pisces and Yvlon glanced at each other, then began investigating the cupboards with zeal. Colth stepped forwards.
“I’ll make bread or something. One side.”
He pushed Pisces and Yvlon aside and began to fill a bowl with alacrity. Pisces was going to protest that he could do it when he saw Colth had the dough halfway done. The Ultimate Supporter was already turning a heating rune on the oven, and his bread was half-risen. Pisces sat at the table with Yvlon.
“The reason they don’t put grains, fruit, or anything else in the cupboards is because rats get in. Or insects. You know how many idiots leave the cupboard ajar? Preservation doesn’t stop a colony of flies turning food into maggots. Nothing puts off a fancy guest like that.”
“Ah, makes sense.”
Pisces sat as Colth worked. Yvlon seemed as sleep-deprived as he did. Colth…well, it was hard to tell. He shoved the bread in the oven.
“You’ll get food in five minutes. I don’t know all of our team’s customs. Do we just not talk about how badly we got our asses kicked and play it off like Ceria’s doing? Or are we going to sit down and analyze what we did wrong?”
His face was flat. Pisces shifted. Glanced at Yvlon. She bit her lip and spoke.
“I…was just realizing we hadn’t lost a battle like that, Colth. The Fire Elemental came close, but we don’t analyze fights. Jelaqua made us do it, remember, Pisces? But we never kept it up. Ksmvr always wanted to, but we usually just finished an adventure and were resting up.”
“Ah. Oldschool adventuring. No room for mistakes until someone’s dead, then we just fight and tear ourselves apart. Any interest in not doing that?”
“Plenty, Colth. Believe me, we’re not blind. I know we’re all upset, so I assume Ceria wanted us to rest up.”
Colth was opening a pot of butter and smelling it. He flipped a butter knife up in the air, a spinning circle.
“Ceria’s judgement is off. Could be the circlet. Could be she just doesn’t know how to lead. She wasn’t the last leader of the Horns, right?”
“She was more like the 2nd or 3rd in command. Gerial and Calruz were the two leaders. But she does a fine job. Usually.”
Again, Yvlon glanced at Pisces. He got up to find plates. Colth inserted the butter knife into the butter. Flicked it onto the table. Yvlon stopped it with her palm, and the [Supporter] grunted.
“But you can’t tell if the circlet’s making her act like that. [Freedom From Morality] doesn’t cover everything. Is she actually that much smarter…?”
Pisces found some ornamental plates with too much color on them. Mosaics on the plates…he put them on the table.
“I’d like to think she could have come up with all our tactics before the circlet. Her spellcasting’s better, but…perhaps we should discuss it with her?”
“Feels like we’ll just ask her about the damn circlet. That last battle was all our faults. Or do you disagree?”
Another quick glance between Yvlon and Pisces as Colth opened the oven, and the bread was already smelling good. Pisces sat down.
“No…I quite agree, Colth. We should have fallen back when we realized the Wildcards were so entrenched. And when I mentioned they were Earthers, we didn’t stop to negotiate. You told us to take the [Mage], Lareceina out. Yvlon could have killed her when she charged in.”
The Silver Killer flinched. Pisces smiled at her, or made his lips move to show her he didn’t mean it. She averted her gaze, drumming her fingers on the table. Rose up to get the plates; the bread was already done. Colth cut it into pieces, tossing the steaming plates on the counter. Pisces slowed them before the clatter awoke Ceria. Then came a jar of marmalade, other jams—Colth threw himself into a chair.
His eyes were hard. When they focused on Pisces, the [Necromancer] leaned back. Then Colth’s flat voice gained heat.
“I didn’t abandon the plan because they were raining attack spells on us. You held back.”
“I did the best I could have—”
“You had a [Shatterbolt] I didn’t see you use once. You’re capable of [Deathbolt], and you could have taken their captain down, but you gave him an opening to fight back. Let alone the new spells you’ve learned.”
Colth leaned over the table. Pisces’ back itched because he’d thought the same—
“They were Earthers, Colth. People from Erin’s world. I know you know what that means. If we had killed them—”
A hand was gripping the front of his robes. Colth pulled Pisces forwards and hissed at him.
“In a combat situation, you don’t do the nice thing, Pisces. You take care of your team. If you don’t, you die. I’ve lost too many friends to hesitation! I thought you’d get that, and we nearly died—”
“Hey, this is great bread. Anyone want butter? I prefer jam. Is it old?”
Yvlon put the bread down between Colth and Pisces. Colth let go, and Pisces stared at a jar. Yvlon sniffed it.
“…It’s bad.”
“[Rejuvenate Supplies].”
Colth pointed at it, and Yvlon whistled.
“So handy. Okay, who wants a drink—?”
Pisces and Colth eyed each other. The [Necromancer] rasped as Yvlon got a water pitcher and poked at a magical dispenser.
“I understand that too, Colth. But they’re children from another world. Couldn’t we have spoken?”
“Your Captain gave you orders, Pisces. I was backing her play. So was Yvlon.”
“So I’m supposed to just go along with her? She’s got no morality, Colth—”
“If any of us died, it’s on you, me, and all of us to bear that. You didn’t have to murder them—do you think I expected you to do that? Just cut them down and patch them up after!”
Pisces was glad Colth didn’t grab his robe; the [Supporter] had stabbed a piece of bread with the butterknife. But Pisces was rather surprised by his finger jabbing Colth’s armor.
“They were in the right! We didn’t know we were robbing Hemp-folk! If we’d talked—did we have to even take out the other Gold-rank teams? I didn’t sign up to adventure to fight over stealing treasure!”
“Funny, you don’t have a problem when it’s a grave you don’t know. From your background, I would have thought you understood needing to be practical when it’s life-or-death! We cannot make a mistake here, and if we have to cozy up to a damn monarch to achieve our objectives, we will!”
Colth got up, which was good, because Pisces was already on his feet. The two were almost nose-to-nose when a pair of metal hands pushed them back. Pisces felt cold on his chest; the water pitcher. Yvlon put it down.
“Don’t fight, you two.”
She seemed oddly worried, earnest, as she patted them on the shoulders. Colth snarled.
“I’m just trying to get it in this idiot’s head how close to death we were!”
“I know how close we were! But if we had murdered one of Wildcard, do you think—?”
Pisces’ voice echoed in the room before he felt a cool hand on his shoulder. Yvlon grabbed his shoulder and Colth’s.
“Don’t. Fight.”
She didn’t pat them on the shoulders. Rather, pulled them up and lowered them in their chairs. Both men squirmed, and she let go. Pisces felt at the grooves in his flesh. He and Colth leaned back in their chairs. Yvlon forced a smile.
“Let’s be reasonable here, right?”
“…Absolutely.”
“We’re perfectly rational, Yvlon. No fighting here. Let’s have some bread.”
Pisces ate some of the actually tasty bread as he eyed Yvlon. She was glancing at him and Colth, and he smiled at Colth. The [Supporter] smiled like a man stabbed, but they continued eating bread. Yvlon spoke after a second piece of buttered bread.
“I’m sorry I charged in like that. I should have waited, but I thought I could end it.”
“That’s not the issue, we weren’t backing you up—”
“—if I’d dispelled her magic or we’d come at them with different tactics—”
Everyone broke off. Yvlon chewed on her bread. Pisces pushed his plate back. Colth blew out his cheeks, began to speak, and closed his mouth. Drummed his knuckles on the table in a rhythm until he noticed Yvlon and Pisces watching him.
“Listen, we’re at cross-angles, I know. We’re not doing regular adventures. Even the Crossroads were, well, pure adventuring. This is politics. I don’t like it, but we’re in a powerful kingdom, and we have objectives.”
“I know.”
Colth glanced at Pisces, then at Yvlon.
“Sometimes, you’re right. I, we, should back you up. It’s just hard because that’s not how I’ve operated.”
“I could be more reasonable. I just miss Ksmvr.”
Yvlon was carving a groove in the table. It cracked. Pisces and Colth winced. Colth was staring at Pisces.
“If we step out of line too much, we put those we care about in danger.”
Pisces’ heart sank. Yvlon glanced up.
“Are you talking about Pisces’ slave friends? He said that to me. He’s not blind, Colth. He’s just not a murderer like us.”
The [Supporter] blinked. He stared at Yvlon, and Pisces’ heart hurt as he turned to the Silver Killer, and she averted her gaze. Pisces opened his mouth. Had nothing to say. Searched for the right words, and he always had enough words. Fancy words. He coughed, cleared his throat—
“Hey, team! I thought I smelled food!”
Ceria bounded down the stairs. She was bleary-eyed, but she skidded across the floor, windmilling her arms, and the rest of the Horns regarded her. She had messy hair, but on her head was the circlet, lopsided but gleaming in the dark. They stared at it as Ceria rubbed her hands.
“Free bread? This is a fancy mansion! Serve me up two, and are we gonna talk about how the battle went? I get it; it feels bad. But hey, Earthers, am I right? Let’s agree we all made mistakes and chill out before we do a breakdown. Thoughts?”
She looked around and faltered as she saw their expressions. Ceria glanced up and took her circlet off. Coughed.
“It’s for spell memorization in my sleep. Listen, I get they were Earthers, but they attacked us. And not all of them are statistically going to be good or worth…”
She trailed off.
“Make it three slices of bread.”
 
——
 
A story for you. As a girl, Delitandra had once been backhanded by her mother so hard she had broken her jaw. At the time, it was considered excessive, but not beyond the limits of a parent’s actions in Hraace.
A different time, you see. Children had been seen as more of means towards great achievements as Hraace aspired. Insurance if you yourself hadn’t made a mark in your time; their works would be your own. Thus, children were vessels to be shaped at any cost, like Hraace’s aspiring heroes. Delitandra had grown up under that ideal…before the Pedagogia had been overthrown by Araxia, a young instructor who had found the King of Destruction and attached to his rising star.
Then the Terandrians had been chased from Hraace. Then the old ways were dealt with, and the Pedagogia had made an example of Delitandra’s mother and dragged her in a lap around the capital by chariot.
No one had mourned the old Pedagogia. Much less the girl who had aspired to join that new court of the Heromakers. It was old history, and the two often warred with each other like, well, mother and child these days.
But the promise was kept. Never again would such ill deeds be allowed, and it had been an oath Delitandra had never questioned. Never should another child of Hraace fear such violence.
Except, perhaps, today in service of her duties. As an adult, Delitandra did not look forwards to it, but if need be…
“Play the fools for all we’re worth, and if needed have them take out their tempers on us. But have a care. Let me speak before you all.”
She cautioned the other instructors in her small posse before they entered the mansion where the Horns of Hammerad were resting. It was still before dawn, and the Heromakers were exhausted. They had sat out the evening when news had come from the Tomb of Yad’thuv. Of what had happened.
The failure of Yisame’s quest. That was not open news, of course. The Horns were being celebrated, but the Heromakers could read between the lines. Simple extrapolation and some checking of sources told them it had been, at best, a draw.
So they came. Elena had not been around, and for this, Delitandra had judged her best left behind. For when she sprang through the doors, a smile on her face, she was annoying.
“Ah, here are the Horns in their triumph! And where would they be without their erstwhile trainers and companions?”
She bandied herself and her team into the room, over the shock of the four adventurers who seemed sleep-deprived and tense. Delitandra was ready, without appearing to be so, for the blow. She guessed the Silver Killer or Colthei, but she was surprised when she was greeted with, if not enthusiasm, then restrained politeness.
“Instructor Delitandra, how did you find us?”
“Ah, we had it from Queen Yisame’s staff, and the rest was simply a matter of hiring a carriage, Necromancer Pisces. Now, to work. Shall we break down the disaster of the tomb?”
She smiled cheekily, but Pisces just smiled back at her as Ceria sighed, and Yvlon sat back. Colth’s face was unreadably polite, but the rest of the Horns…
“We’ve gone over our errors, but we could certainly rehash them, Delitandra. It was a defeat, but at least the Wildcards are alive, and we are, in the end, teammates. I respect my team immensely, and we shall unify more satisfactorily in the next encounter.”
Pisces nodded a few times as he met her eyes. Delitandra stopped bracing, eyed him to see if he was lying or being sarcastic, and sighed, partially in relief.
So not simmering rage or blame. They were doing the earnestness approach, eh? How…wholesome. More than she’d thought. The Horns really weren’t as dysfunctional as many teams she’d met.
It made her like them a bit, to see them trying to be reasonable, regular people. Even if she knew they were nothing close to that. She smiled and slid into a seat next to Pisces. Insisting he tell her again.
You will be a Named-rank team and, perhaps, spawn a [Hero] among your own. You cannot be normal, poor souls. But is it kinder to break you open or let you crack on your own?
That she did not know, for once.
 
——
 
The Heromakers of Hraace weren’t as annoying as Pisces feared. True, Delitandra was a bit pressing, but they listened to the account of the raid, speculating without lecturing on how the Horns might have broken Wildcard’s defensive lines.
The agreement everyone had, from Yvlon, Colth, Ceria, everyone—was that they’d been taken off-guard by a team of unique classes. Lareceina, Kusal, Leonardo—they had been using Skills and combinations in ways the Horns hadn’t fathomed.
“Combined Skills. We don’t have a single one. A combined spell with me and Ceria, but…that is Earthers for you.”
Delitandra hesitated.
“Earthers? I don’t know the term…”
“Trey and Teres’ lot. Otherworlders. You know. The Heromakers surely know about Earthers since all the world powers do.”
Ceria’s face was too bland as she sipped from some juice the Heromakers had brought, and Pisces almost smiled as he saw Delitandra’s eyes flick to her cohort. Colth pushed himself up.
“I’m going to freshen up. Someone explain to the rookies what that is?”
Even Yvlon chuckled, and Ceria skipped off.
“Oh, woe is me! I’m so tired and messy! If only someone were here to tend to my aches and pains!”
She called out, and several of the instructors dashed off. Delitandra hesitated, and Yvlon rose with a grimace.
“I’m dog tired. I’ll catch some sleep now that we’ve hashed it out.”
Pisces could have used his bed too, but he lingered as Delitandra fixed her eyes on him. She smiled, and he felt guilty.
“We have taken you from your home, Delitandra, and I am conscious of your efforts on our behalf. Ah, Ceria could explain it better than I…”
Even annoying as she was, it was a mouthful, and he was tired. Delitandra waved this away.
“That we came was because we did understand you had lost, Necromancer. Not a bad thing, to lose, in fact. Better to have it bloodless than one where your team died, truth?”
“Truth…but a bitter one.”
He sat, still guilty. Yes, they’d reminded themselves they were a team, but he hadn’t managed to say to Ceria…and he and Colth had been rather up in each other’s faces. He wondered how Yvlon felt. Delitandra seemed to read this all in him, because she produced something.
“We have prepared new lessons for you, Pisces. Doubtless, you are tired, but I would think that we have at least three hours for you to practice some fencing. I am no gifted fencer, merely passable. Araxia would be, annoyingly, the best candidate to teach you, but let us retire to the practice courts this mansion has for some swordplay. Mm, yes, swordplay over magic, I think.”
He blinked at her.
“Actually, Delitandra, my bed is rather inviting now…”
He stood. She popped into place and took his arm. He was quite conscious of her proximity as she smiled sweetly at him.
“You don’t mind my bosom, good. Your lessons did something for you—but we should have focused as much on combat, clearly!”
“Er—but one learns with good sleep, Delitandra—”
Somehow, she maneuvered him to the practice courts, not his inviting bed. And she was pushing a stamina potion in his face. Pisces was about to say, ‘thank you, but I insist I need sleep’ when she hit him with a blow below the belt, metaphorically speaking.
“Your father’s appearance on the television was doubtless seen across the world. Did you watch it or not? He is better than you at fencing in many ways. Though in a duel you might have him. With magic. Had you any questions for us?”
He froze. She watched him, too warily, he realized, as if expecting him to lash out—Pisces took a breath.
“I do not hold that man in any regard, Delitandra. He may be my biological sire, but that is all.”
“Is that why you don’t wish to acknowledge when he has a point?”
Another blow between the shoulders. He hunched his…thought about saying something unkind, then swung around slowly. She was a Heromaker of Hraace. And sworn to secrecy. Her people had taught the King of Destruction. Pisces wavered, peered around, then lowered his voice.
“So you think I’m a Silver-bell at best and inferior too, Delitandra?”
Her eyes were oddly sympathetic. She half-bowed, hand across her chest.
“Did I say that, Pisces? Do not mistake the voice in your ear with my own. I too know what it is like to have no parents worth respecting.”
She did? He hesitated, and something in him wanted to know—Pisces untensed a bit.
“My mother is fine.”
“I am sure she is. Did she say nothing when he was at his worst? Then she is no mother, but an accomplice.”
“She was—he’s a wrathful man, and she wasn’t—”
He grew uncomfortable, then angry. But Delitandra’s words were gentle.
“If I overstep, tell me, but I too have known what it is like, Pisces.”
“You had, ah, a parent undeserving of his position?”
Pisces blinked at her, and Delitandra scratched at her side.
“I had someone who sired me, who I would not call a parent. And someone else who stood by and let such abuse happen, yes. The Pedagogia is my parent, just not one connected by blood, and she is vexsome enough as it is. One can choose their parents, Pisces.”
“One…cannot, Delitandra. I understand you don’t regard your birth-parents as such, but they did raise you.”
She smiled calmly at him, and for once, she didn’t feel lecturing, just someone talking earnestly to him, and he wondered what her childhood had been like.
“And I give them credence for that and nothing else. Words have power. If you met that man, Padurn, in the open, would you let him speak to you like that?”
“…No.”
The thought of it made Pisces’ stomach clench, and Delitandra nodded.
“I would not ask if you’d run him through because murder sullies one—but you could at least break a bone.”
“He’s a respected [Fencer] of Ailendamus, and I’m still not sure I could beat him without magic or a trick.”
“If he deserves it, would your team not have your back? I would help.”
For an instant, the image of Ceria, Colth, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and even Vofea jumping Padurn came to mind. He almost laughed, then realized that Yvlon might actually do just that. The idea of his father, skilled with a blade, fighting the Silver Killer of Izril…Pisces would have liked to see that.
So he smiled and relaxed for a moment as Delitandra grinned. Then he looked at her—
“What about your parents?”
She offered him a mysterious smile.
“The Pedagogia had my back, Adventurer Pisces, so don’t fear on that account. She is far from perfect, but I do give her credit in this. When she’s dethroned, she would make an excellent instructor and caretaker of children under thirteen.”
He chuckled, softly, and then, because he felt better, he managed to ask the question he hadn’t dared voice in front of his team. Pisces stared at his feet, then cleared his throat hesitantly, hoping she wouldn’t laugh or judge him.
“…Delitandra. Since you are here and know something about dueling and weapon arts. Ah…could you tell me? What exactly did my father mean when he said I would never rise to a Gold-bell?”
It had been bugging him in the quiet moments. Pisces sort of knew what was meant, but he also was uncertain. Delitandra smiled.
“You did not see his explanation?”
“No, we turned off the broadcast. Did he say?”
“I shall summarize it for you, if that is simpler.”
“Please.”
Pisces sat with Delitandra, not knowing that three members of his team eyed him from the windows as they sat in the courtyard. The dry desert air warmed and the sun shone down on the sandstone mansion. He listened to her gratefully, growing rapt with interest and pain, but less of it.
Since it was her, not that man from his childhood and home.
 
——
 
Padurn Jealnet’s lesson on fencing was simple, and he had touched on Pisces’ flaws surprisingly little, because most of his lesson had been on the fundamentals of true fencing.
But he had made reference to what he meant. There was a difference between Pisces, who had achieved the still-renowned rank of the Silver-bell, and that of a Gold-bell [Duelist]. It was, in Delitandra’s words, simple.
“He criticized you on what you, he, and anyone else short of the King of Duels or Maestro lacks, Pisces. Attack and defense.”
It was so simple, the way she said it. Pisces imagined Padurn would be full of lectures and harsh voice…he blinked.
“So simple?”
“In essence? Yes. He would have put maneuverability in there, but I think he could not in good conscience. Your [Flash Step] is enough to keep up with a master.”
She smiled, and he turned red and demurred; Raelt had him in footwork, but that was not what Delitandra meant.
“Consider the Skill your father has, Pisces. [Automatic Parry]. Any blow, any attack he is capable of deflecting, he will. How could you defeat such a man?”
“Make him slip? [Invisibility]? [Deathbolt] to the face?”
Pisces would enjoy that. But even saying it made him realize what Delitandra and Padurn meant. His face fell, and he rested his chin in his hands as he sat on the bench where ornamental ivy twined about the wood seat. It smelled of dusty sand, but also of some of the fragrant flowers planted here. Bread from Colthei’s kitchen. Her personal fragrance.
He edged away on the bench. She edged over.
“If you had neither, and only the sword, could you damage him?”
“Not without a Skill, and I do not have any ones purely for a [Fencer]. If I baited him into [Joveln’s Parry]…”
“So none that can wound him. His point is this: any Gold-bell duelist can do the same without a Skill. At Level 40, nay, Level 50, how does a mortal man hope to wound a true master? Thus, the quandary you and he face.”
Attack and defense. Pisces blinked.
When you got down to it, he had no attacking Skills, did he? He’d noticed it against Bograms and the Champion of Monarchs. Oh, he could stab someone through the heart, and that tended to work. But against an Adult Creler, against a significant foe…
“So I lack for a way to both damage a foe with my rapier—or even regular spells—or defend?”
She smiled.
“Exactly. Now, I shall not lecture you on magic because you are the expert, and spells are more a matter of learning the right ones and using them correctly. But swordplay? There are a few ways to damage a foe who has armor or defensive abilities bar none. The King of Duels has learned some; you recall his spiraling stab he used to wound the King of Destruction?”
A masterpiece of footwork and that classic, piercing thrust. Pisces nodded. Delitandra drew her sword, which he noted was a fencer’s foil today.
“Let us practice and see if we can find you one. There are three means I can think of easily: a Skill, which you might learn, a magical spell you might use in conjunction with the rapier, or your natural aura. To warm up, attack me. [Instruction: Supreme Bladework]!”
He rose, body exhausted, but with a bit of a will. Nevertheless, some the old Pisces was in him, so he had to ask.
“Shouldn’t I get some sleep first, though, Delitandra? One does learn better with rest.”
Her eyes twinkled at him.
“It is the observation of the Heromakers that our clients are most motivated to train after a humiliating defeat, Pisces. Or is this not so?”
Damn. He sighed and drew his rapier.
“I suppose I could do an hour…”
 
——
 
Here was the thing; being able to deflect the King of Duels’ stab, the Maestro’s, or any high-level Skill like the Hero of Zethe’s, sounded like madness to Pisces. You either had a barrier or weren’t there—surviving such attacks was impossible.
Or the territory of Gold-bell duelists. He was crestfallen by the problem, but at least he was thinking of how to solve it. Nor was Delitandra completely out of ideas, just stating the many obstacles to overcome.
“Here is my best and simplest way to upgrade your attacks, Pisces. [Bound Spell]. You needn’t the Skill for it, though it would make it faster. You have been in the company of Magus Grimalkin, who is famous for his use of it. He can bind three spells into his fist. You need only one. Consider: could you bind a spell into the tip of your rapier?”
He blinked and regarded his bone-metal rapier. Bind a spell and fire it off?
“I…don’t see why not. I’ve done it before against Lenxiol, actually. [Light Spear], in fact. Well, not the spell like that…”
It wasn’t as powerful as a Tier 5 spell, which he didn’t know, but the thought of stabbing a foe and blasting a Tier 3 spell into their chest had some charm. Thus, Delitandra encouraged him to try binding it in the middle of a fight while she attacked, then had him practice the spell on her while using it for maximum damage.
She had a Skill that granted her immunity to harm while they were practicing, so Pisces quickly learned that the spell needed a bit of time and the right strike to fire off. Doing so while also practicing his swordplay was a good workout and Pisces found himself sweating far before he customarily woke up.
And somehow, during his practice, Pisces realized that he had an audience.
Not the Heromakers of Hraace; they had the amazing ability to be unobtrusive helpers. Rather, he realized Yvlon Byres was there, sitting on the patio, sipping on a chilled fruit drink with ice in it. When he wavered and Delitandra nearly scored a point on him, she waved.
“If I’m in the way…”
“No, I ah, I am simply practicing. I imagine it’s boring.”
They did practice together, or had in Liscor, but this was just his fencing warmup, even if Delitandra was helping. Yvlon hesitated and pointed to her drink.
“They’re making drinks for us. Well, Colth was competing with Ietco, one of the Heromakers, on who could make the best drinks. This is nice. Agave and Ceria’s ice.”
She also had some snacks. Pisces hungrily snatched some jam-coated cheese on crackers and realized it was very tasty stuff. The riches of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, again. Spicy jam, no less. Then he went back to practicing.
It was all awkward after the—well, the miniature fight. Yvlon said nothing, but after two more short bouts, she made a comment.
“Delitandra is very good with a sword.”
“Only when training. Would that I had a Skill to allow all my abilities to translate to battle—Araxia has that.”
“Really?”
She’d be a menace if Delitandra’s [Supreme Bladework] Skill were active at all times. The Heromaker winked at Pisces.
“The benefit of a trainer who levels is that they are allowed to use their talents when supporting their chosen client. Ah, well—I prefer to train, anyways. See, Yvlon, he is trying to refine his incisive attacks and defenses.”
They were practicing high-level swordplay. It wasn’t a classic fencing bout, but more of Delitandra creating exceptionally dangerous offensives where she would use a Skill or mimic an attack a Gold-bell [Fencer] might use, forcing Pisces to defend or dodge, and he’d try to break her guard.
Not quite as dangerous as the Maestro or King of Duels, but Yvlon nodded after a moment.
“He can’t break your form.”
Annoyingly, Pisces could not. [Supreme Bladework] made Delitandra parry Pisces or defend like Padurn could do; even his most incisive lunge just ended up with a blade at his throat. It was good insight, and he did prove he could break the guard in the end—but only with magic. [Deathbolt]—or rather a black streak of light magic mimicking the spell—had Delitandra cursing and failing to dodge it.
“A Gold-bell might parry it. And it is not impossible to dodge with better footwork. Hence the [Light Spear] trick. Shall we try it? Though please, not the spell itself.”
Pisces obligingly bound the spell to the tip of his rapier, and he did try it several times, but when he missed three times in a row—
“If I know it will appear from the tip of your blade, it is easy to account for.”
Delitandra leaned under the spell as it blasted out of the tip of Pisces’ rapier. He sighed.
“I might surprise a Gold-bell duelist who can’t see magic with it—but only once. And I cannot help but think that King Raelt would just parry or dodge it.”
“I wish I’d met him.”
Yvlon commented as she put aside the snack bowl. Pisces had nothing but good things to say about Raelt, and they swapped stories of [Kings]—he always felt like he got the better end of the deal, though he wished he’d met the Mage of Rivers and Herald of the Forests.
“Adventurer Yvlon, I am getting tired—apologies, I’m not as fit as I wished to be after that ride. Would you care to let Adventurer Pisces practice his defenses? Your arms are as fast as a Gold-bell duelist.”
Delitandra asked after another bout, and Yvlon hesitated. She eyed Pisces, and he realized they hadn’t sparred since the incident with Numbtongue. Her arms had been too deadly to try in a practice setting…
“I’ve got better control these days. Why not? If you’re okay with it, Pisces.”
“Do I get a barrier spell?”
He meant it as a joke, but she handed him her Ring of Siphon Barriers, and since that worked, he found himself [Flash Stepping] out of the way of exploding needle-arms.
“Dead gods, Yvlon!”
“You have a barrier on, be quiet.”
She grinned, and he got hit by three needles as her arms turned into two pincushions that made it literally impossible to dodge if you were around her. Pisces leapt back.
“This is worse than a Gold-bell duelist.”
“Good practice, though. Can you parry her metal arms when they extend?”
Delitandra was cheering him on with the other Heromakers, and Pisces tried it; he parried two spikes in quick succession. The other eight stabbed the shimmering barrier over his skin. Yvlon grinned, and he poked her in the chest with a rapier.
“What about your defenses?”
“That’s my ring. We’re teaching you high-level dueling, Pisces.”
“Surely you need practice—”
“I’ll just make shields with my arms or use my [Aspect of Iron]. Delitandra, you told me you had a better plan for this than just Pisces dodging faster. If the [Light Spear] trick isn’t good enough, what else is there?”
She and Pisces turned to Delitandra. The problem with learning a new attack was that it was damn hard. You didn’t just learn a new Skill overnight, and Delitandra confessed she had two problems.
“The way of auras is difficult and long, and yours is not exactly a royal one or a specialist’s, Pisces. The Order of Seasons in Pheislant are known to use theirs to bypass enemy resistances.”
“I know them, but my aura isn’t trained. Erin would have an easier time of harnessing hers. Do I seem like a good aura-trainer, Yvlon? Hah!”
He flicked his blade at Yvlon’s face, trying to bait an attack out, but just grinned at him. She didn’t flinch in the face of a blade even inches from her skin. She trusted him too much—and she was holding a sword of her own, now.
He’d forgotten she was a good swordswoman. Quite competent, if not nearly as fast as he was. But even one-handed, without a shield, she made for a good partner…because her arms would elongate, letting her stab faster than he expected or contract so she could pull the sword close to her body.
She was so damn unpredictable that they began getting into the sparring in general as Delitandra commented.
“Truth, Adventurer Pisces. Then the next logical step would be to copy a move of old. We had thought to teach you an old Gold-rank duelist’s technique. [Joveln’s Parry] is on that level.”
Pisces smiled as he demonstrated that very move and jarred the sword out of Yvlon’s hand. She swore, stomped over to pick it up, then made her off-hand turn into a blade arm. She went in swinging as he [Flash Stepped] away hurriedly.
“Who did you have in mind?”
A sweet smile from Delitandra.
“Az’kerash.”
“Wh—”
Yvlon hooked his leg, and Pisces went down. She pointed a sword at his chest, and he stared at Delitandra before she heaved him up. Then both stared at Delitandra, slightly aghast.
“Az’kerash? But he’s the Necromancer. Y-you can’t be—”
“What is proscribed in Terandria and Izril is not so heinous here, Necromancer. In fact, he pioneered a number of dueling moves, given his acclaim. Chandler’s Rebuke is, in fact, a famous dueling move he developed.”
His ears perked up so much at this they almost waggled like Ceria’s. Of course Pisces knew about Chandler’s Rebuke. It was a famous move, and he’d tried to find a copy of a recording or even an account of it—! But the Necromancer himself had never described dueling to Pisces, just magic.
Delitandra could not know about Az’kerash’s occasional tutelage, of course, but Pisces was powerfully curious.
A second problem. When he asked to see it, she hesitated and coughed.
“Er…the issue is that most texts on him were burned during our Terandrian occupation. We are sending to Hraace for a master duelist’s techniques, but as I understand it, Chandler’s Rebuke was a move that allowed him to parry an enemy [Archmage]’s spells, close the gap, and stab them through the chest or stomach in a single blow. He apparently once deflected a Tier 7 spell before running his opponent through.”
That sounded insanely cool to Pisces. Yvlon was only too willing to let him try it.
“I could make a huge fist and let him parry it. How does it go?”
Another of the Horns appeared at this point. Ceria, who came out munching on food. She was surprised to see Yvlon and Pisces there, but she listened to an explanation of what was going on, and then Colth emerged in an apron. He was scowling, but even his eyes lit up.
“Are we teaching Pisces to parry? Excellent, that was the one thing old Deniusth used to do well. Chandler’s Rebuke…I can’t say I’ve ever heard him mention that move, but he never talked swordplay with me.”
“Really, Colth? Didn’t the other adventurers teach you?”
The Ultimate Supporter sat on a railing as Ceria conjured a chair out of ice and threw herself onto it. It wasn’t like the awkwardness of the morning was gone, but for a moment, they were just…
Pisces swore he saw Delitandra smiling, but when he glanced at her, she was blank-faced, just listening keenly. Colth scowled as he accepted a drink from one of the Heromakers.
“I took lessons and went with all of them, even Mihaela on her runs, yeah. But I was the rookie Silver-ranker, not a partner most of the time. Valceif was the little kid they coddled. Me? Deniusth couldn’t talk swordplay with most of the old guard. Larra’s a [Wizard], Mihaela kicks, Eld’s a sword-and-board user. It really annoyed Deni that he was good with a sword but everyone could best him in their own way. He is talented.”
Both as a musician and swordmaster—he was a Gold-bell duelist, though Pisces hadn’t seen him fight. Ceria eyed Colth.
“And you’re a dual shortsword user and Named-ranker. Even if it’s not the same, you’d probably dice a Silver-bell duelist in a fight. Why’d he never talk to you?”
Colth hesitated, then smiled blandly in that way Pisces knew.
“I’m the kid. We were never on the same level.”
“That’s stupid.”
Pisces nodded, and Yvlon grunted in agreement. Colth lifted his hands.
“Look, he conquered Chalence before they called me a Named-ranker—”
“Doesn’t change the fact that he’s more arrogant than most adventurers. And I’ve met Elia and her team. You gotta remind them you’re on their level, Colth.”
Pisces put in.
“Precisely. Weren’t most inactive until the New Lands? Surely you merit some authority over them.”
“Bah, they’re just old…”
But Colth seemed pleased by the commentary. He shook his head.
“The point is, Pisces needs a good technique. Let’s get back to that. Chandler’s Rebuke—how’s it go? I’d like to learn it myself.”
He, Yvlon, and Pisces clustered around a memory crystal Delitandra had prepared of the only example her group had of the move. Even Ceria eyed it, and Pisces saw, to his astonishment, a familiar figure.
Archmage Eldavin. Wait…
“Hey, this is that lecture on Az’kerash he broadcasted! Wait, is that Chandler’s Rebuke?”
It wasn’t actually Eldavin, but a [Duelist] performing the technique for the Archmage of Memories. He was doing a rather stylish offhanded parry move before he stabbed through an opponent. It was…odd to Pisces. Yvlon frowned at it, then swung one arm up.
“I could do that. That’s literally a parrying move you do with a shield. Pretty fast, and you thrust the arm out wide…”
“Probably so if it’s a monster or something you make sure you’re opening their guard. It’s nothing special. Wait. This is incomplete.”
Colth realized the same thing as Pisces, and Delitandra gave them a pained smile.
“The, ah, problem is that this move is purely demonstration, Horns. Eldavin himself mentions it is just the movement, not the Skill or spell.”
Ah. Pisces had been wondering how you were supposed to deflect Tier 7 magic with that. He stared at the offhand.
“Do you…hold a buckler or something?”
“It’d have to be Relic-class gear. And you wouldn’t call that a move if it required an artifact, just talk about how his shield was great. It sounds like something anyone could pick up.”
Colth opined. Pisces tried the move a few times, but when Yvlon threw a big punch, he nearly sprained his wrist trying to deflect it.
“So Pisces needs to figure out what that move was, eh? It’d sure be useful—though how about a good attacking Skill instead? He’s gotta kill things too.”
“Better to defend than attack, Captain Ceria, surely. An adventurer must survive—more drinks?”
Ceria was rolling around her ice-chair as Colth elbowed Yvlon aside to enter the dueling ring.
“Yeah, well, if Pisces had done more attacking, we’d have taken out Wildcard. Maybe we need a non-lethal attack so he can actually participate.”
The [Necromancer]’s relaxed smile vanished in a heartbeat. He stopped taking the glass of juice from a Heromaker, and Delitandra winced.
“Adventurer Colthei, the training, the training—”
“Fine, fine. Let’s actually get serious, Pisces. C’mon!”
Colth drew his Baneblades and came at Pisces fast and hard. He tried to get in close, right under Pisces’ chest, and the [Necromancer] swore.
“Selphid’s tits, Colth! I’m practicing against other Gold-bell duelists, not [Rogues]!”
“Some can move like this. Go ahead and fire spells, I’ll put up a low-tier barrier. Better yet, Ceria?”
She waggled her fingers.
“I can do a personal barrier. What’s your poison? [Mana Barrier]? It’s real standard, and Pisces can go through it if he hits too hard, but I’ve only got that and [Arcane Deflection].”
Pisces blinked at her, and Yvlon raised her brows.
“Those are new.”
“Yeah, well…”
Ceria hesitated, then indicated her circlet. Pisces bit his tongue, jealous. Those sound like Tier 3 spells, and she’s just learning them while I’m stuck on my Djinni spellbook? He coughed.
“With spells like that, one wonders how we failed against Wildcard. Can’t you just dismiss the summons or whatnot?”
“Or cast a spell to blind them? If that circlet’s teaching you magic, you should get it to teach you some swordplay too. Can you get it to work on Chandler’s Rebuke?”
Yvlon smiled, and even Colth snorted as Pisces grinned. But Ceria’s face closed off, and she leapt up.
“Yeah, yeah. Sadly, it only works on what I’m figuring out. It’s got spells—and no, it’s not loading my mind up with anything else. Speaking of, I need a nap because I did not sleep well. You lot have fun beating each other up, the dedicated [Mage] is gonna train her brain. On a pillow.”
She waved airily and then skipped into the house. Pisces hesitated, and Yvlon raised a hand.
“Ceria, I just—”
She trailed off and glanced at him. Colth drew his blades again.
“Leave it. We dancing, Pisces?”
“Not unless you let me actually practice my way, Colth. I don’t need to be deadlier.”
It was the Ultimate Supporter’s turn to scowl. He rammed his swords back in their sheaths.
“Just so long as you remember that we’re dead if you ease up, Pisces! Argh—you know what? You’re right, I’m not a fencer, and I don’t do rapiers. Never got the hang of them. I’m going to head inside too.”
He walked off the fencing courts, and Pisces bit his tongue. He hadn’t meant—that left Yvlon and him. Delitandra’s face was clearly troubled, and she turned to Yvlon desperately.
“Yvlon, would you consider at least helping us train with Pisces? If we were to do two-on-one, that is also—”
“Sure.”
The Silver Killer’s voice was quiet, but Pisces blinked at her. She just shifted and met his eyes.
“I have time, and it’s good to practice again, right, Pisces? Unless you don’t want me here.”
“No, I—absolutely it is. And you could train your arms if you cared to.”
She smiled at that, and after a second, they went back into the ring. Neither one spoke for a moment, then Delitandra hurried in, all smiles, to get back to training Pisces. And they didn’t talk for several bouts, except to comment on a blow or a perceived weakness…
But more than once, Yvlon caught Pisces’ eyes, and they’d nod or smile. That felt normal.
Natural.
Between them. At times, Pisces thought he saw Ceria in the window or felt like Colth was eying them, but the other two didn’t come out. Less than ideal, but Yvlon ended up toweling off sweat as Pisces gulped more water and reminisced about other battles with the Heromakers.
That was good. In fact, Pisces protested, after three hours, that he was good to keep going. Yvlon hadn’t objected, and the exercise took his mind off everything else.
If they were going to take today to rest, he might as well salvage his poor performance. They’d have to talk to Yisame soon, but…Pisces saw Delitandra raise her eyebrows.
“Ah, no, Pisces. We must have you fresh and pampered within twenty minutes! To the baths!”
“What? Why?”
He didn’t get it, but a shout from above made him glance up; Ceria was waving her arms from the windows.
“Get out! I’m sleeping! I’m—”
The Horns were all being awoken by the Heromakers. Delitandra gave Pisces a bright smile.
“Why, because we must be at your parade in the city in thirty minutes, Pisces.”
Yvlon stopped sniffing at one armpit and half-turned. She squinted suspiciously at Delitandra.
“Our what?”
“Your parade. Surely, the heroes who conquered the Tomb of Yad’thuv expected no less? Especially the ones who won the battle against so many Gold-rank teams?”
She waggled her eyebrows, and Pisces took a second before he groaned and tried to object. But Delitandra overruled him.
“It is not from us, but from Queen Yisame. She desires it, and it is a good lie. To save face if nothing else. Humor her. Quick, to the baths!”
They almost carried Pisces away to freshen up. He vanished into the baths with a yelp, and Delitandra was giving orders on attire, how they should act—Pisces blasted a spell at her to get her to leave his bathroom.
It wasn’t all fun and games. And the parade…
Well, that sucked on multiple levels.
 
——
 
Ten thousand Stitch-folk turned out in the city of Yarithuv, throwing brightly colored grains from the rooftops, cheering the Horns of Hammerad, scrambling to pick up pieces of dropped silk confetti, and bowing down to the feet of the Horns as they walked down the endless red carpet. Their deeds were being shouted, and images flashed about them.
Pisces wanted to die. He had been flushed so red for the first few minutes that people had been staring at the image of him flying overhead and his face as if wondering if he were a different species.
Yvlon Byres walked along stone-faced, muttering her famous greeting under her breath. Colth was smiling and waving, in pure propaganda-Colth mode, utterly disingenuous.
Only Ceria seemed to enjoy any of it, skating along, blowing frost kisses—but even she grew bored after twenty minutes.
“Hey, guys? Do you think Yisame thinks too much of us?”
Three of her teammates’ glares answered her. Ceria sighed. She turned and began shooting plumes of snow into the air, then at the crowd who screamed and chanted her name.
“Ice Squirrel! Ice Squirrel!”
They were delighted, agog—but Pisces didn’t feel like he’d earned it. More than that—there was something artificial about how enthusiastic the people were. He got liking his team, he really did. Look at Colth, who was a Named-rank adventurer, or Ceria, who could bring ice even to dry Chandrar. But…they hadn’t done much.
It hadn’t been broadcast, their fight. The above-ground parts had, but this was no Village of the Dead scenario, or the Crossroads. It was further confirmed when Colth slowed to whisper.
“[Enthusiasm of the Masses]. Mass Skills from whoever’s job it is to keep the people happy. They’re going to go insane—then we’ll be forgotten.”
Pisces’ face showed how much he liked that thought. Even Ailendamus didn’t do that…! And Yisame was okay with this? Well, of course she was. Yvlon appeared conflicted and clearly decided to not worry about this by striding ahead.
“We messed it up for her. We have to Knight a bit. You two look good.”
So saying, she pumped her fist up in the air and morphed it into a blade-arm. The crowd reeled back, then screamed louder. Yvlon bared her teeth and strode forwards.
“Hello! My name is Yvlon Byres! Some may call me—”
She was really trying. Pisces half-heartedly thrust his rapier skywards and was so embarrassed that he conjured all of his Skeletal Champions to show off, slinking behind them. Colth was better; he did a flying frontflip, drew his daggers, and began to do acrobatics. Ceria was conjuring her Frostmarrow Behemoth—Pisces ran over to kick her, and there was laughter. Yvlon smiled at him.
She didn’t really want to do this. But Yisame was her friend. Pisces…felt bad for Yvlon, in a way. He was apprentice to or being favored by a monster, Az’kerash the Necromancer. But Pisces saw him fully. Yvlon had a devoted fan and friend who was the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And it seemed to only now occur to Yvlon that Yisame wasn’t always the best.
It was the richness, for one thing. Could you be too rich? Pisces had not hitherto asked that question because even Magnolia Reinhart had not seemed excessively wealthy. Oh, she had powerful magical items like her carriage, mansions, and a staff, but he could almost picture being able to afford one of those things, especially as he had made Gold-rank.
But Yisame threw a parade and the cost clearly never occurred to her. Whereas he?
He saw it.
It wasn’t even a big parade, he could imagine her telling Yvlon. Just one for a modest achievement. So all you had to do was reserve a city. You know, grind all the commerce, all trade, all pedestrians down the main thoroughfare to a halt for a day?
Nevermind that, that was just bureaucracy. Then you had to announce it to the public, and the public didn’t show up to a parade, even for the Horns, without some free food. So buy out every storefront along the walkways, have them give out food.
You needed to hire the staff to deal with that—oh, and [Guards] because you needed to block off the parade from the people. Every [Guard] in the city might do, and maybe some more hired help. Pull it from another city.
Obviously, it followed that you needed music, someone to give a short speech, emergency [Healers] in case of problems—Pisces saw two tents, and wondered if Sage Etrikah had thought of that. But now consider the parade.
…Four of the Horns of Hammerad was not a great parade. They’d be here, and gone, in a second, and they weren’t impressive alone. An easy fix for Yisame’s people!
Of course, you had an army march through. Just a show-battalion, six thousand Cotton and Silk soldiers armed to the nines, with their own trumpets and drums. But one battalion was below standard.
So two Grand Elephants, captured from Tiqr. A bunch of entertainers, a mix of tumblers, bards, and so on! A few [Illusionists] for the magic, and with all that and the things Pisces hadn’t seen, he wondered if the Horns could have afforded to pay for this parade between all the gold they’d earned.
But that was the power of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The power of empire. He watched a Grand Elephant tossing its head and wondered if it was sedated. It had [Beast Tamers] to soothe and guide it, people on its back tossing flowers—
Even a team whose entire job it was to pick up poop. Because animals did defecate, and there, Pisces saw it.
A collar around the neck of a Stitch-girl who ran after said poop with a bag of holding. His stomach lurched. A [Slave]—
“Hey, some parade, huh?”
Ceria nudged Pisces, and he jumped. She was smiling. She glanced at the little figure who’d vanished after the elephant and whispered.
“Cool it. Yisame’s keeping the you-know-whats low. See how there aren’t any among the staff?”
He glanced around and realized the servers with drinks, guards, everyone else was a civilian. Which wouldn’t have been out of the ordinary in Izril. But here—
“She’s doing it on purpose?”
“Makes us feel better. Must be harder and jump the costs, but I doubt it’s even a flea to the palace.”
Her tone was casual, and she seemed approving. Yet that just made Pisces wonder how many [Slaves] would be here elsewhere or who had been pushed out of sight for…his sake. Ceria glanced at Pisces and bit her lip slightly.
“Listen, it’s politics.”
“I know that.”
He wasn’t blind to the reality of their situation, it was just that he felt this parade wasn’t needed, even to make it seem like the Horns had won at the Tomb. It truly was just for Yvlon Byres; when she began walking down the parade route, there was a roar of sound, and he wondered if it was all for the Silver Killer or if more Skills had been activated.
All for Yisame’s best friend.
Pisces wondered how you dealt with that. He had ex-[Slaves] for friends. He admired the Death of Chains. But if you had an actually unscrupulous person as your ally? How did you deal with that? He had only had Erin Solstice, who didn’t really have a flaw beyond being silly at times.
Not one flaw.
Maybe she could add more flavor to her spaghetti.
Sometimes, she played into her own stereotype too hard.
Sure, he could think of bad things, but she had been kidnapped by Roshal and was stranded at sea. In Baleros though…that woman on the scrying orb…
No, he didn’t have bad things to say about her. In fact, he had a rapier he would happily insert with a loaded spell in anyone who had problems with her. She didn’t respect undead enough, that was her flaw. And she could be hurtful in taking teasing too far.
Pisces was escaping the reality of the parade with his analysis of Erin Solstice’s limited faults, and it was going pretty well. Right up until the crowd moved, and he saw someone break past the guards.
Of course, a parade had guards. To keep the adoring crowds back if nothing else. Bored Stitch-folk wearing the [Queen]’s livery. Most of the people screaming didn’t actually try to push forward; the Silver Killer was, uh, famed. But for whatever reason, there was a swell as Yvlon passed by a group of young Stitch-folk, and they pushed—and knocked one of the [Guards] flat. Most went down with him, but a few scrambled up and ran towards her.
Including a young Stitch-girl. She was…odd. Her steps shuffled, and Pisces saw she was smiling, eyes locked on Yvlon. She came forwards as Yvlon hesitated, then stuck out a hand.
“Er, hello. My name is Yvlon Byres, but the truth is—”
Pisces saw Colth striding forwards, and some of Delitandra’s people were moving as well, smiles on their faces. But the Stitch-girl walked up too fast. As Yvlon was talking, she halted in front of the Silver Killer, too close, and stood on her tip-toes. Then she grabbed Yvlon and kissed her full on the mouth.
Pisces stopped dead still. His mouth opened. Yvlon froze up. Her eyes went wide, then she shoved the Stitch-girl back. The girl stumbled into the crowd and vanished as everyone cheered. In the next moment, Ceria was laughing, doubled over, pointing at Yvlon’s face. Colth was swearing.
“Those damn idiots—Yvlon, are you okay? [Poison Detection]—clear! Are you feeling good?”
“I’m fine—stop overreacting, Colth.”
“They got us! It’s a killing kiss! A hex!”
He was shouting, but the crowd was cheering the unexpected kiss, and Yvlon was so flustered she just wiped her lips on her arm. Colth kept inspecting her as the flustered [Guards] got in position, and Delitandra’s people clustered around Yvlon, but the Silver Killer didn’t feel anything wrong.
She was still red as they wound down the parade ahead of schedule. She glared and pointed.
“That kind of thing is meant for Pisces!”
“Me?”
He jumped and glanced around, fearing random Stitch-ladies with designs on his lips. Not that he was entirely—Yvlon sighed and went to pinch one of Ceria’s ears.
“Can we please get down to business? Please?”
They had to make something of this damn debacle. As fate would have it, someone had come to see the parade for Nerrhavia Fallen’s most popular team.
Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina were all staring at his team as they passed by. They appeared either unimpressed or jealous. Pisces waved weakly and smiled. Well…this was awkward. From bad first impressions to this.
He really hoped they could be friendly. Sadly, Ceria spotted the team and took this moment to bound over and put Lareceina in a headlock.
“Hey! Look at the losers we had to beat! No hard feelings!”
She gave Lareceina an aggressive noogieing, and Pisces ran over to pull her off as the red-faced [Mage] fought her. All he wanted was some civil, mutually respectful conversation in peace and quiet. Was that too much to ask?
Apparently, yes. He turned his head, then saw the true power of fandom: another Stitch-girl, entirely unprompted, had decided to sequester a signature from one of her heroes. Namely, by pulling her shirt up and exposing her breasts. He stared at her. Then at the quill she was waving at him.
Stitch-folk had a, uh, more open attitude towards the body. Which Pisces observed in a scholarly way by noting a second performer who had apparently been hired for the Horns’ parade as extra entertainment. She was wearing familiar clothing to him: that of a [Fool], all bright, big panes of colorful fabric that clashed against each other.
Even a jester’s cap with ostentatiously ringing silver bells attached to the ends. She was doing cartwheels past the Horns while exposing a lot of skin. And when she saw Pisces staring at both her and the fan, she also pulled down her tunic, exposing more skin and pierced nipples with gold on th—
Pisces kept staring until he realized everyone was watching him.
Then he turned invisible and fled.
 
——
 
An entire continent’s ride north, the Pedagogia of Hraace was sighing over the image of Pisces Jealnet goggling at a mere pair of breasts.
She was riding hard towards Medain, though the King of Myths had yet to approach the coast. Hraace had to be part of this negotiation and event. Why not? He had a fondness for her kingdom, and there was opportunity here—and danger. His nation was kith and kin to [Heroes].
But she sent a few pointed reminders to Delitandra that if she wanted the Horns to be a success, she had better do her job rather than bask in the fame.
“We trained him to talk to beautiful women.”
One of the older Heromakers complained, and Araxia sighed again.
“Clearly, we should have had him do less polite conversations and more touching. I thought a [Necromancer] who specializes in bone would be less minded to pay attention to flesh. Or perhaps he’s uncomfortable with fleshy bits so he specialized in…”
A prudish [Necromancer]. She rolled her eyes, but she hoped the Horns had learned a lesson from the failed tomb raid. She hadn’t needed Delitandra’s report to understand they had been defeated in some sense, there. Incomplete. And not just for lack of their other members. Worse, now…she glanced south.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had embraced the Horns. They had made a splash the first time, each member in their way. Ksmvr of Chandrar, that famous name, Yvlon the Silver Killer, Ceria the Ice Squirrel, Pisces the Scourge—all had made their titles here. Each one inspiring nations.
However, that had been the splash of visitors. When they had returned, the stories had grown perhaps beyond them. But Yvlon Byres had shown Nerrhavia’s Fallen that her team had grown to continue fitting the legends; a rarity. So often it was the other way around.
“But therein lies the great danger. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is too large. Too filled with stories and means to lay low even [Heroes]. Or to match them or bring them to events worthy of them. It is the crucible.”
And she rather feared the Horns had just failed another important test. Well, they weren’t dead, and Delitandra was the one there. So the Pedagogia rode onwards, unaware that the King of Myths himself had come to Chandrar for the Horns of Hammerad, however unwillingly. If she’d known that—
Well, she’d have probably doubled her bet or something.
 
——
 
Predictably, his team teased him about the breasts incident all day. Colth, that unscrupulous bastard, just had to repeat the Jecaina incident to everyone in earshot. The Heromakers were horrible.
“If you’d like more training in that regard, Pisces, you wouldn’t lack for willing volunteers, both among us or fans—we would need to go over safety in the bedroom.”
“Safety? From what?”
Ceria nearly spat out her drink as they sat in the enchanted carriage. Pisces was leaning out of an open window, red-faced, considering hurling himself out of the speeding vehicle. Delitandra counted on her fingers.
“Aside from assassination in bed, unwanted pregnancies, disease, pillowtalk that leaks secrets, the mundane such as a jealous lover shaving one’s hair or leaving a lovemark, avoiding entanglements, sleeping with an important individual, [Devotee] Skills that connect you—”
Ceria’s amused expression turned sour instantly, and she sat and tugged her circlet down.
“Bleh, your nation takes all the fun out of adventuring.”
Delitandra favored Ceria with a smile.
“We are used to these things, Captain Ceria. Torreb himself was said to have fallen prey to such a Skill, albeit that might be said to be more of a mother’s love for her child. Inheritance of his strength, not theft. He resented it even so.”
Pisces didn’t know that. He saw Yvlon look up. She was yawning, less impressed by the parade despite the unexpected kiss.
“Someone inherited his strength?”
“Itkisa. The woman who was glaring us down. I heard a rumor she was only a bit stronger than someone with [Enhanced Strength]…until Pomle. She might have been hiding her true potential all along. For decades.”
Colth put in, growing more interested, and Delitandra nodded at him, eyes glinting.
“Or perhaps Torreb himself had her on a leash, eh? She was invited to Hraace, you know. But she refused. She claimed she’d visit if she had need of us. From how she appeared, as a Gold-rank adventurer, she seems to want that fame denied her, yes?”
“True, but she’s in her, what, forties? She’s lost a step, and even if she is Torreb’s daughter and hung out with him, how much does that translate into killer instincts? Ever seen her fight?”
Pisces was all for the conversation changing to Itkisa, but unfortunately, Yvlon took that moment to yawn again.
“I hope she’s not actually against us. First Wildcard and these Gold-rank teams—we need some friends. Ceria, did you have to humiliate them?”
“Hey! I’m just getting back at them.”
Ceria protested, and Yvlon and Pisces glowered at her. Colth shrugged.
“They’re still rookies, Yvlon. It’s a bit of friendly hazing. Izril’s adventurers do it all the time. The Haven’s lot are nonstop with it, and guess who’s always the rookie?”
He made a face, and Pisces frowned at him.
“Shouldn’t you advocate to end that system then, Colth?”
“I just throw jabs back as I level. We’re one dysfunctional family up there, and they need to pick on someone.”
Colth waved it off, but Pisces persisted.
“If it bothers you, you could tell them to simply stop, surely.”
For all Erin teased him in the inn, she didn’t really let anyone pick on anyone else—well, she had people she picked on like Jewel or Montressa, Bezale, and Palt, but those tended to be grudges they had earned. The Haven was old-school adventuring, though. Colth shifted and folded his arms. He opened his mouth, closed it—
“Listen, they’re all grumpy children in the end. Don’t worry about me, I’m a big boy. Unlike someone who treats all breasts like they have an [Attention Target] Skill glued to them.”
He flipped it back on Pisces again with a Skill, and the [Necromancer] flushed. Then Ceria made it worse by coming to Pisces’ defense. She slapped him on the back.
“Hey, Pisces has seen tons of breasts! Mine, uh…ones on dead bodies, I’m sure—he just has an appreciation for the physical form!”
“Ceria, please stop.”
Yvlon’s eyes had rolled up in her head. Ceria pointed slyly at her.
“Yvlon’s the one who got a kiss.”
“That shouldn’t have been allowed—”
Delitandra and Colth were annoyed about it, but Yvlon just grimaced.
“Chandrar truly is foreign. I mean, I know about women kissing women. Ysara is uh—but in public?”
Now it was Pisces’ turn to glance at Colth, who seemed even more amused as Delitandra and the other Heromakers eyed the Horns, gauging their opinions.
Pisces felt, as a fairly well-travelled fellow, that he understood other cultures—and you saw a bit more laxity in social customs in the cults or other groups he’d frequented. Just look at Ama and her, uh, paramour.
Ceria? Utterly unconcerned by issues of morality thanks to her circlet, and Colth was the most worldly of them all. But Yvlon…she peered around. Raised her metal hands.
“I’m not offended. Just not a fan of people kissing me. If people want to—I mean, is that a custom in Chandrar? It’s awful foreig—I mean, I respect Stitch-folk culture.”
“You mean all culture, Byres.”
Pisces saw his chance and took it. Yvlon eyed him.
“Not Izrilian. I know that for a fact.”
“Heh.”
Colth snorted, and when Yvlon eyed him, he coughed delicately into one hand.
“Clearly, you don’t know noble circles well despite your upbringing, Yvlon.”
“You’re telling me—the entire reason my sister left the north is—okay, give me an example, Colth.”
“[Soldiers], [Ladies]—I think the [Lords] have more of a hangup, but I could tell you stories—Drakes and their Turnscales, oh my. Your sister clearly didn’t care to hide who she was, but I bet she had all the stories. Didn’t you say she went on a ship? Now, let me tell you, depending on the ship—”
Yvlon eyed Colth, whereupon he began to give her a lecture that started with bored [Sailors] at sea and went the gamut of species and places and classes. Yvlon stared and, after a few minutes, had to hold up a hand.
“Wait, waitwaitwait. People sell artificial…penii?”
She stumped Colth and the Heromakers for a solid minute. Pisces sat back with a relieved sigh as they unpacked another one of Yvlon’s Byresisms. At least she seemed to realize it herself, because she sighed.
“Immoral. I can hear my mother now in the back of my head. Okay, tell me what is actually going on with this kind of thing. And if someone laughs, I’m kicking them out of the carriage.”
 
——
 
Another day, another event. Pisces tried to read his spellbook. His Djinni spellbook with the weird little mirror on the cover that auto-detected which magics he was capable of learning and selected spells for him based on his inputs.
His studies weren’t fast with it mainly because studying through all of what he’d been through was hard. Magic was hard. If he had been in Erin’s inn for eight months with little else to do but read and practice, he’d make great progress, he was sure.
On the road with plenty of distractions? Hard to learn magic, and again, it wasn’t magic like he was used to. He studied Lighted Arrow spells, not [Light Arrow] spells. The spellbook taught you how to form arrows out of light magic, how to give it acceleration, force, even spin—and to fail any one component of the spellcasting was dangerous, as he had learned to his own cost when he’d nearly blown a finger off.
Even so, Pisces would have done better in his studies except for…
He stopped reading the complex litany of magical instructions on how to give his arrows a homing target and felt a cool gust on the back of his neck. Pisces leaned left, propping his spellbook against the wall of the carriage. After a second, the cold air tickled the right side of his neck. He shifted again. Then stared pointedly down at Ceria’s head, which was trying to insert itself under one arm.
“Springwalker, do you mind?”
“Nope, go ahead, Pisces.”
She was contorting her neck to try to read his spellbook. Which was the main problem. He sighed.
“You’re a bit distracting—”
“I’m not saying a word! You just go ahead and keep reading, and I’ll turn myself into one of those long-necked things from Tiqr.”
“A giraffe?”
“Sure.”
“Perhaps if you studied your own spellbook?”
Ceria’s expression was of a wounded doe he’d shot repeatedly with Ksmvr’s crossbows. Colth called over.
“Sniffmaster Pisces hates company when he’s studying, Ceria. He wouldn’t let me read either.”
“You two are hardly unobtrusive!”
Pisces complained as he flicked the page over. Instantly, Ceria flipped it back.
“Hold on, I wasn’t done reading.”
…Which proved Pisces’ point. Colth was arguably just as bad; he’d try to get Pisces to discuss each page and his key takeaways and summaries instead of blissful silence. Pisces appealed to Yvlon with his eyes. She was just staring into the distance, pondering the dynamics of love in its many forms.
 
——
 
It was something of a relief to get out of the carriage. It was only an hour’s ride, actually. Their adventure had taken them close to one of the Horns’ objectives.
The region that the Tomb of Yad’thuv was based in was not a…rich one. Dry—and not all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was so dry!—occupied by a lot of Hemp-folk, and its cities were connected along long routes, forming part of the famous trade routes that brought goods across Chandrar.
The Glass Straits themselves connected to this area, and Pisces remembered his voyage there with the freed [Slaves] a lifetime ago, or so it felt. But they were a glittering band on the horizon. What the Horns had come for, and the place that lay outside the city of Halqued, was a rather large commune exiled from the city proper by about three miles.
Not far enough to judge by how residents in the city refused to go anywhere near the strange compound. It had walls, fifteen feet high and made of dirt and sandstone, but here was the curious thing: the walls faced the wrong way.
They faced towards the compound, and slanted dirt let one walk up from the outside. In fact, Pisces realized, there was no formal entrance. He saw someone walking up the walls, then try to hop down into the compound below—he winced as they landed. Colth, who’d been checking they were in the right place, glanced up.
“Compression fracture, two places. Idiot.”
“Nasty. Pisces, go help the poor bugger out.”
The Horns were getting out of the carriage and stretching, and Pisces did indeed stride over and hear the wail of a woman’s voice.
“Help! My legs! You damn fools, help!”
She was screaming at two people standing on the wall above and clearly not willing to jump down and break their legs. Pisces cast [Featherfall] and hopped down…he saw a woman clutching at her legs.
“Excuse me, I am a [Necromancer]. I can heal—”
The woman stopped screaming, did a double take when she saw him, and raised her hands.
“B-Bane Pisces? I don’t own slaves! I thank you, but if you just help me—”
She had a dagger out, but not for him. He realized she was sawing at her broken legs, despite the pain. She was trying to remove the stitching—
Right, Stitch-folk rules. Bemused, he took the dagger, gingerly severed the strings, and her legs became cloth the moment they were cut. Cloth with broken white fabric sticking out from the brown ‘skin’, he saw.
The woman, who it turned out was a [Trader], had new legs she pulled out and sewed on in a trice. There was some blood on her clothing, and she was clearly shaken.
“Nerrhavia’s bones, that hurt! My best legs too! Agh, and to embarrass myself in front of a famous adventurer no less! I thank you, sir. If I were Human, I’d need your magic. One wonders how anyone does without cloth for flesh.”
She stood, and he had to own, he was impressed.
“Stitch-folk bodies are certainly far more adaptable and easy to repair than Human ones, Miss?”
She bowed.
“Trader Hexata, Bane! And if you need for knickknacks, curios, interesting items, I will go across Nerrhavia’s Fallen for my clients! And if my two idiotic brothers would deign to come down and introduce themselves?”
They had a ladder by now and tumbled down it. Hexata and her two older brothers were a funny trio. Not the most well-to-do. Scrappy in a vaguely Octavia way, Pisces decided. They were much taken with him and chatted openly.
“You say Stitch-folk bodies are all that much better, Scourge, but our limbs fray and wear down a hundred times faster than yours. We need to restuff or repair an arm in but a month whereas your flesh heals.”
“Constant repair vs a permanent body. Tradeoffs; I do understand. Even so, one of my teammates nearly lost her arms to infection. When I think of that—”
Pisces recounted Yvlon’s battle with her infected arms as Hexata, Grulive, and Xomet listened with rapt interest. Hexata stared at Yvlon herself as the Silver Killer landed on the ground next to Colth; he’d leapt down easily, and she landed on her metal foot which extended to stab the ground then arrest her fall. Ceria just slid down a ramp with the Heromakers.
“So you too have come to visit the Mad Ones then, Scourge? For any one purpose or just to see what they have cooked up this month? If I can introduce you to any—I visit them often to see what they make. And if you need anything…”
Pisces thought it might be good to have a contact like Hexata. He was taking her card when Colth swept over.
“Pisces! We’re meeting the Mad Ones—hello, excuse us. Pisces, c’mon.”
“I was just meeting Trader Hexata here—”
Pisces reached for her card as she proffered it to him with a desperate smile, but Colth moved such that he blocked her and didn’t seem to see the card. He hurried Pisces away, and Hexata sighed as Pisces twisted.
“Colth, what are—at least say hello—”
“Pisces, don’t waste your time, and therefore ours, with the small fries. She’s a Level 20 [Trader] who doesn’t even know how to get a rope. I get you like being in that Silver-ranker mentality but we don’t have time for that. Even Yvlon’s figured out who she is now.”
Pisces stared at Colth, rather offended. The [Ultimate Supporter] saw his glance and grimaced.
“Oh, now you’re all upset.”
“I just don’t think it’s fair to write off anyone for being low-level—”
“Listen, Pisces. I get it. I had the same thought, but after the ten thousandth person you meet who’s earnest, excited, and just needs a tiny bit of your time, some gold, or a favor—it gets old. You’re famous. That girl who was so excited she wanted you to sign her breasts? You’re going to meet a lot of people with that energy, and I’m warning you—it’ll burn you out. Even Eld got that, and he was a literal [Beet Farmer]. I’m trying to preserve your youthful charm.”
Pisces understood Colth’s point on some level. But he couldn’t help but snap back.
“Wouldn’t it be better if you let me wear out such feelings on my own?”
Colth glanced at him, and Delitandra half turned from where the Horns were talking to a gaggle of odd-looking people.
“Maybe. But it sucks seeing someone make the same mistakes, Pisces. Perhaps that was an earnest young [Trader] who just wanted to strike a deal. But the first one who takes your money or tries to sell you under the river—we’re trying to keep your innocence. Dead gods, is this how Larra and the others felt about me?”
Colth just shook his head, sighing. Pisces didn’t know what to say to that, so he sniffed and met another group of the King of Destruction’s famous vassals.
The Mad Ones.
 
——
 
A question for you. Flos Reimarch, King of Destruction. Famed for ruling all of Chandrar and having countless mighty vassals who had as-yet not joined him.
Like the Monks of Sottheim or the Loquea Dree. Each one whose capabilities were such that they put other forces to flight. Yet in his conquests, his battles with nations to re-establish his empire, he had betimes bemoaned his lack of good, standing forces.
Wished the Rustängmarder were with him, for instance. Or Amerys. Or…the Mad Ones.
Out of all of his vassals, not once had the King of Destruction invoked groups such as the Monks of Sottheim except maybe in a passing comment about high-level staff fighters or experts in childrearing. Yet he had spoken of the Mad Ones a hundred times more than other groups.
Why? It occurred to Pisces to question why his team had been asked about the subject, and that curiosity had taken them to the place where Nerrhavia’s Fallen had begrudgingly allowed the famous group to settle. He understood they were, well, eccentrics.
[Alchemists], [Inventors], [Mechanics]—crafters who had formed a kind of commune, but who were so unpredictable, so prone to making things explode, that even regular [Alchemists] wouldn’t hang out with them.
His guess would be that they’d be like Octavia after three nights without sleep, or mini-Salisses. Full of that energetic chaos, unable to sit still. He was…sort of right?
They had a lot of energy, and once you got past the relatively deserted area around the walls, you ran into tents. Some freestanding buildings, but mostly tents. Clearly pitched a long time ago; people had altered them to stitch two together, formed a walkway between another, and there was patching indicating where holes had been made.
For instance, one wooden building appeared, well, cheap. Not bad, but Pisces suspected it had holes, and the wood wasn’t all one type of board. It was clearly cobbled together from scrap; he’d associate it with a poor district in old Celum.
But one wall was made of steel or some metal, a huge, vaguely round splash of material that looked like the wood in texture and was clearly tough; pockmarks indicated impacts against it. The entire building was a microcosm of the Mad Ones’ camp.
Improvisation, chaos, a lack of great funding, and occasionally something crazy you had to glance twice at. The inhabitants of each building had the same vibe.
Most were dirty. Sand blew over their compound with some regularity, and if not that, then the fumes from other alchemical works or just grease and dust created a second layer of skin on them. They were a bunch of species—though Stitch-folk and Human predominated—and wore overalls or vests with lots of pockets for tools. But where they diverged from the quintessential mad genius look was the magic.
A lot of them were spellcasters. Pisces saw more varieties of spell schools and magic he’d never conceived of across the camp in a single minute than he’d seen in all of Wistram.
Weird magic too. Like…he saw someone bending a strand of fire magic in a complete circle with a wand. Then tying a knot in it. Utterly free-form—and the fiery knot blew up in a miniature explosion, but the young [Mage] had already taken cover behind a bench. He popped up and chewed on a biscuit, mildly singed.
“Damn, it keeps blowing up like that. But I need a knot here, or something close. Anyone know knitting or needlework?”
He called out, and a few others turned. One raised a hand, but didn’t come over; the Garuda was forging something at an anvil.
“I do, but what’s the project?”
“I want to shape raw magical threads together.”
“In a tapestry or something?”
The Garuda leaned out of his open-air forge, growing interested as he pushed some goggles up. A few more of the other crafters glanced over, visibly interested, but the young man shook his head.
“No, I’m thinking more like a statue. Or an art piece, but not linked up like a tapestry. I’m trying to make a spell that’s beautiful. Any takers?”
The Garuda shook his head and slapped his goggles back down without a word. The other crafters went back to work, and the young man sighed. He went back to his task and formed another circle in the air. Added a different kind of twist in the fiery thread, prepared to dive…and when the strands didn’t detonate, added another circle with a pleased look.
Pisces had never seen someone free-cast like that. Holding magic in the air was hard as hell. He stared as the young man kept working. Two circles now, and he was adding more magic around it, giving it contouring, details. He was, in fact…
Making a pair of breasts. Pisces stared at the floating magical ‘artwork’ as a passing Mad One scowled at the image. But the young man kept working with the dogged persistence of someone who believed that a fire-spell in the image of a naked young lady was a worthwhile addition to the world.
“I love these guys.”
Ceria Springwalker was grinning from ear to ear as she took in the camp. Their guide was a Stitch-man in his mid-fifties. He had some white hair and was bald except for a frizz of hair like a halo around his head. And from the grease stains on his fingers, he was more of a mechanical sort. His name was Otevious, and he had served the King of Destruction himself.
“This is all the freeform stuff, guests. Don’t mind them. The better, more structured projects with funding are more interior. Anything’s a project out here. You get silly ideas from the younger lot like this all the time. ‘Is my Potion of Excellent Sensations working? I need fifteen lovely ladies to volunteer for me!’”
He shook his head at the foolishness of youth. Yvlon gazed at the panoply of people working around her. Something exploded, and she reacted instantly, making a shield out of her arms. She blocked a tiny, glowing piece of metal that had nearly gone through Ceria’s nose. The half-Elf recoiled. Pisces himself hadn’t reacted fast enough.
Otevious had leaned out of the way of the shrapnel.
“Right, that reminds me. Barriers up, guests? Unless you’re a [Warrior], of course. I think we have some rings…nope, we either used the last bunch up or tried upgrading them. If you’re killed by something exploding, that’s the risk you take. Even Flos knew that. Sorry, I’m all over today. Who are you again?”
Refreshingly, he had no idea who they were. Ceria held out a hand.
“Ceria, Horns of Hammerad?”
“You sound like adventurers.”
“Er, yes. Gold-rank? We conquered the Village of the Dead? Reached the Crossroads of Izril? That’s Yvlon, the Silver Killer. Killed the Champion of Monarchs?”
Otevious blinked at Ceria, then put on a disingenuous smile.
“Charmed, I’m sure! The Champion of Monarchs you say? Never liked…her. If we need any silver killed or crossroads found, I’m sure we’ll call on you two!”
That took the wind neatly out of Ceria’s sails, and Pisces hid a smile. Otevious led them onwards.
“No offense, truly. But we don’t, uh, pay attention to current events as much. Unless it catches our eye. We have one of those things everyone yammers about in camp. Scrying orbs, right. Television? Weird name. Someone new to our camps was familiar with it, but the nomenclature felt wrong to me. Wistram wouldn’t name it that. Um…oh, right, it’s from another world.”
This time, all the Horns glanced at him, and Otevious smacked his forehead.
“The entire Earth wing of studies. Too much damn funding for all that. Was that why you were here? You said Flos sent you.”
“We’re here on behalf of a number of prospective clients, sir. May I ask if we can help by providing our unique skillsets? I’m a [Supporter], and we have a high-level [Necromancer], [Cryomancer], and a [Warrior] with living metal arms!”
Colth leapt in, clearly trying to ingratiate himself with Otevious. He obviously thought this would arouse the man’s passions, but Otevious glanced over the Horns and shrugged.
“How long are you here for?”
“Er, we could be here a day or two—”
“Pass. I’m out of [Eureka Moments] for the month, and unless you find someone who wants to gamble on a breakthrough in a day, you won’t find much interest. Again, no offense, but if you’re not going to put in at least four months’ time, using someone with high-level anything is pointless. You’ll be gone soon, and then we’re back to square one.”
What an interesting perspective. It made sense, but that took Colth out of the running as he recalibrated. Pisces and Yvlon got nudges to go humiliate themselves, and so Pisces thought and tried next.
“We are here at the request of His Majesty of Reim and the Quarass, asking for you to relocate your camps to their nations, Inventor Otevious. Naturally, I imagine this is a tricky political matter, and we do not wish to endanger your camp. Is there a governing body here we should speak to? We have made no promises other than to carry the requests.”
Even if the Quarass had a good incentive for Colth to help her. Otevious blinked at Pisces and then scratched at his head.
“Governing body? Sure, there’s the Funding Committee. But we’ve fielded both monarchs’ requests for, what, nearly two years now? Ten for the Quarass, I think. Flos came back and wanted us to join him, which has some appeal, but then we’re at war, and he always wants the weapons. Other things too, and the funding was appealing, but…I think we’re just going to let him come to us.”
“Er, pardon?”
Otevious waved his hands around.
“Tell him what we told—wait, we never hired a Courier did we? Oops, no wonder he’s mad. Right, well, this is perfect. Tell him that we’re delighted he’s back, we’d love to take his gold—when he conquers this section of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we’ll get right back to it! If he had any big projects in mind, we’ll get a few concepts running. How’s that?”
Pisces’ mouth stayed open, and he stepped back. Once he conquers…Ceria raised one finger to her temple, a grin of delight on her face. Colth grabbed it.
“Er, Master Otevious. You’re willing to work for the King of Destruction? What about Germina?”
“Oh, sure. The Quarass is a wonderful collaborator if you can get her to sit still on anything. It’s like asking a Djinni for hints; she’ll get you ahead, but it’s bad to rely on her. We’re down for both.”
“Which one?”
“Whichever gets here. Or offers us a lot of gold to move. Actually—if the Quarass could pick us up with a Djinni? Lift the entire camp up and just move it around? We had a prototype regarding that. Hey, Yerelia! Guests! Where’s your prototype concept for the House-mover?”
They entered the inner camp where there were better buildings with actual enchanted walls and fewer people. A woman stepped out from working on a complex series of magical objects floating in a glass aquarium. Some spell was sucking the light out so they moved in a black void. She lifted something off her face—odd monoculars over both eyes with multiple colored lenses which could flip into place to magnify her vision.
Yerelia was another Stitch-woman, albeit one with one hand which was a Gnollish paw, the other being a tentacle that split into five digits, like fingers. She also had digitigrade legs and walked out in a fashion Pisces found fascinating—and wondered if it was cumbersome. The Horns stared as the woman called out.
“That old thing? Buried in my files; we got rid of the actual prototype, remember? What’s with the guests? Nice magic on them. Recruits? Hired help? Did the committee finally pay for a good [Mage]?”
“Nope. Just lookers.”
“Damn.”
“They might send us all to Germina or Reim, though. Got a preference on which one?”
The woman leaned on a curious object that looked like some kind of wrench married to a needle; it was altering magic around it, Pisces realized. And it had a strand of magic in it? He peered at it as Ceria squinted.
“Um…I’ll take…Germina. Probably. They have better finger foods. And poisons.”
“Poisons, I forgot! Put my vote in for poisons too. If you’re taking votes when you abduct or transport us, that is.”
Otevious snapped his fingers and turned to the Horns. Ceria’s smile seemed forced this time.
“Er, you don’t mind if we put sacks over all your heads and cart you north?”
The two [Inventors] stared at her. Otevious scratched at his chin.
“I’d hope it was faster and a bit more elegant than that. But we’re hardly going to fight adventurers who kill silver, are we? Just make sure you have us disarm all the active experiments of a certain type or they might explode when you take us. Even in Chests of Holding. Oh, and you’re bringing our experiments, right?”
He seemed actually worried there, and a few more crafters came over, mostly in their later years. Pisces presumed these were the ones who could duck or knew how not to explode themselves.
“Still working on your Earth projects, Yerelia? How’s it going? Who’re the lookers?”
“Adventurers. They’re going to kidnap us to Germina or Reim—they haven’t decided yet.”
“Damn, I was working on a project—did they say when?”
The Horns were treated to several stares, and Colth opened his mouth only for a woman holding a canister of what might have been magicore to open it and check on something.
“Can I persuade you to wait until Beithday? I’ve got a few projects I’d love to finish up if we’re getting kidnapped again. Want to try this one?”
She offered the canteen around, and everyone instantly refused. Pisces hesitated long enough for her to shove it in his face, and it turned out to be not magicore but…soup.
Soup with at least some magic in it. He eyed it, and Pisces, who had stared down at Erin’s magical cooking, feared to imbibe whatever this was. It had a sludgy quality to it. If colors could melt…the woman sighed and took a bite of whatever it was. Instantly, she spat it out.
“I’ve poisoned myself. Let me know about the kidnapping when we get that sorted.”
She walked off. Colth was trying to clarify.
“We’re not kidnapping anyone. We’re just asking on behalf of Their Majesties—”
“Didn’t we tell Flos we were waiting to be conquered?”
“We forgot to pay the Courier, remember? We had them doing exercises instead before they got mad and left.”
“Right, damn. No wonder he sent this lot. Are they threatening to kill us if we don’t go?”
“Not yet…”
Ceria was laughing too hard to do anything. Colth had the colorful expression of a man trying to up his weirdness levels to keep up. Pisces was just hesitating and wondering if Erin would have fit in or been blown away by them. Even the Heromakers were clearly not sure what to do.
They trained heroes, not dealt with madfolk. In the face of all this, every head turned to Yvlon Byres.
The Silver Killer of Izril, who had been yawning a bit. Pisces thought the camps were fascinating, if obscure, but he supposed Yvlon had no appreciation for it. Ksmvr would have loved this. She blinked at him, hesitated as Colth and Ceria nudged her, and sighed when she realized it was her turn.
Without much faith in herself, she lifted a hand.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me the Silver Killer of Izril, but the truth is, I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez.”
She held out a hand, and Pisces’ eyes rolled up into his head. But the inventors turned, eyed her, and Otevious shook her hand.
“Splendid introduction. What rank of adventurer?”
“Er, Gold.”
“Thank you. I’m Otevious, [Inventor of Mechanical Genius]. Some may call me the Madman of Oletto, but the truth is I didn’t kill that many people. I got my name exploding three buildings, but casualties were minimal.”
Another hand from Yerelia.
“Pleased to meet you too. Yerelia, [Engineer of Magic’s Grasp], on the Funding Committee. Some may call me Yerla, but that was a nickname when I was a child. I don’t think I’ve killed anyone except monsters, and half of those were accidental.”
Yvlon’s face grew more colorful as the others shook her hand. The rest of her team was clutching at their sides. Pisces was shaking in agony, trying not to laugh, and Colth was crying.
Yvlon appeared ready to kneecap the lot of them, but she bared her teeth and then glanced around the camp.
“Very delighted, I’m sure. Before we figure out about, um, kidnapping, which I don’t think we’re doing, may I ask about this funding I keep hearing about? Are the Mad Ones in need of financing? We do have a bit of gold, and if you had anything to sell, we’d be interested.”
The inventors paused a second and Otevious squinted at Yvlon.
“Gold-rank adventurers don’t tend to have that much. What’s your budget, a thousand gold pieces?”
“Er…we could spend more than that, I think?”
Yvlon glanced at Pisces, and he tried to recall how much the Horns actually had in the Merchant’s Guild. That, it transpired, was enough for one of the other Mad Ones to eye them.
“[Investor Appraisal].”
He looked the Horns up and down, then ran off. The other Mad Ones turned—saw the Garuda tear into a tent, and come running out with one of his inventions. Otevious’ eyes brightened, and Yerelia rubbed her hands together.
As it so happened, Yvlon had said the magic words.
Funding. Instantly, two dozen more Mad Ones emerged from their workplaces to welcome their favorite guests!
Paying customers. Pisces blinked, then saw Yvlon smile smugly and put her hands on her hips. The rest of the Horns half-glared at her as the Silver Killer met their eyes. Then Yvlon yawned again.
 
——
 
“It’s all about funding. No one has much gold, and if we have any, it’s either spent on necessities or it goes to the Funding Committee.”
Yerelia was a lot more willing to spend time with the Horns after realizing they might give the Mad Ones gold. It was remarkably straightforwards; the Mad Ones didn’t care for fame or levels if it didn’t help them.
But gold was gold. The reason they liked the Horns was, well, because the Horns were easy marks.
“You’re not lookers, you’re spenders. Very important difference there. We get [Traders]—”
“Ah, like Miss Hexata?”
Pisces was standing there with Yvlon as Yerelia worked on whatever strange Earth-creation she was about. She was delicately maneuvering magical strands together in the weird tank, which was actually a fishtank she’d converted into this project. Ceria and Colth were meeting with a lot more people, trying to figure out who was in charge.
Good luck to them; Pisces doubted there was anything for either one to make sense of in terms of actual leadership. Even Ceria’s circlet would be flummoxed by this place because it was a well and true commune.
Having been part of one himself, he knew how it worked. Some people were in charge, of course, but the rest? Chaos. Yerelia was as good as anyone to talk to since she was on this Funding Committee, and Yvlon was so out of her depth she was sticking by Pisces out of pure desperation.
The unlucky [Trader] was known to the Mad Ones by name at least; Yerelia glanced up.
“You know Hexata?”
“We just met. She broke her legs jumping into the compound—”
“Oh, the walls. Yes, they make them higher each time something blows up or escapes. We’ve had to move eight times. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen gives us a budget. We spend it, so we always need more gold.”
“Why would Nerrhavia’s Fallen give you a budget? My impression was that you were considered terrible nuisances. Yisame said you were a stain on any nation you came across.”
Yvlon interrupted, and Pisces winced at the blunt statement, even by her standards, but Yvlon clearly had the lay of the land here. Yerelia just smiled.
“That is the position any monarch would take, but we have our uses. There was some kind of plague of those damn beetles. Oresects? It annoyed us so much everyone stopped working on our projects to figure out what the Great Sage had made and create a cheaper solution.”
Yvlon and Pisces stared. The Mad Ones were responsible for ending the Oresect plague? Yerelia just nodded absently.
“Not by creating the mixture that kills the bugs, of course. That was already done. We just devoted time to taking one of the ingredients—Kalaab seeds—and finding a cheaper solution. That’s all we needed to do. That’s how you win wars. Against bugs, people. Economize the cure. Well, if that didn’t work, we were going to create a Rustshredder spell, but it would have been less effective.”
—There it was. Just for a second, Pisces saw something. He hesitated, and Yvlon’s head rose like a woman who had just seen a threat. For a moment—they eyed each other.
“So you do understand war, Miss Yerelia? You served Flos?”
The [Engineer] glanced up again.
“Of course I did. All the older members did. It was good for levels, but we died fast too once the [Assassins] realized who made his weapons. If we’re not keen on joining him, it’s simply because all his inventions go one way. Nor did we find something meaningful in what we made, by and large. Because most of it was just war.”
“Like what?”
Pisces didn’t know the legacy of the Mad Ones well, so Yerelia just thought a moment, before snapping her gloved fingers.
“What might you know? Ah, the Tripvine Bag, for example. The same one I trust you have used, or at least, seen as an adventurer.”
It took Pisces a moment to realize what she meant, then he stared.
“Your people invented the modern Tripvine Bag?”
“A more effective version of it, yes. Tottenval’s seeds were hugely effective, but it was in how they were packed and organized. A shame; when he was alive, they were practically a sidearm in every [Soldier]’s arsenal. Terrifying to fight, I’m told. Astounding tactics came of his plants; any cavalry charge turned into dead animals. You could tie down a formation and just ignore them or shoot them dead while your forces advanced. That was worth making—to some. I wasn’t responsible for more than the bag and configuration. I’m no [Mage], you see.”
Yerelia recounted this all distantly. Pisces blinked. He stared at the tool she was using and protested.
“But you’re using magic right now! This entire creation—”
Little orbs were hanging in the pitch blackness, made out of magic, and it was so adept he couldn’t see the details of the delicate mana weaving. But Yerelia just smiled, and here her eyes did light up. She tapped the monoculars on her face.
“Ah, but that’s because I’m using this tool. I invented it myself. I can neither see nor use magic, Adventurer Pisces. I was born without the talent. But I have always wanted to make magic, so these lenses let me see it. This tool lets me manipulate magic very carefully.”
“But these are spells! You can make a spell with—”
Pisces had heard of expert [Mages] using their fingers to adjust magic. Never someone creating a spell from ambient magic. He watched Yerelia tease another strand out of the air, and she nodded.
“Yes. It’s not fast nor simple. Even now, I can injure myself greatly, so there is no mass appeal for this device. I didn’t argue my case hard in front of the Funding Committee, but they’ve seen the value of it.”
“Giving a non-[Mage] the ability to see and manipulate magic isn’t worth money? How does this committee work?”
Yvlon was incredulous, but Yerelia laughed.
“I can see why His Majesty took an interest in you. Let me see if you can understand how we think. Outsiders seldom do. Yes, my creation is valuable—to me. Yes, it is revolutionary—again, to me. But consider that it only gives me the abilities of any Level 5 [Mage]. Is there a benefit in making more? Yes…but is it worth spending the time, the resources, to refine this process? To make something that will be used across the world? For now—no. When this tool can do what a [Mage] cannot do easily, then it will be ready.”
She held up the curious grabbing device that held magic like thread, and Pisces thought he saw it. It was not a lack of passion; it was in Yerelia’s eyes, her evident pride in her work. But it was a kind of ruthless efficiency.
I am not yet ready to change the world with this. And the way she had spoken of the Tripvine Bag…that was the quality of Mad Ones that set them apart from a casual [Mad Genius], Pisces realized. They understood the difference between the glorious bang and something that would change the world.
The woman went on, casual.
“I was part of the teams that worked on alchemical items, as I hadn’t finished this design. Not all of what we made is still in use, of course; the designs change and alter, but I am proud of it. Potions of Blast, healing potion bottles—”
“Wait, wait, you made all of that?”
Yvlon was in disbelief, but again, she was mistaking the woman. The [Engineer] snorted again.
“Of course not! We just created the version that was most effective. You see? We experimented to make lower-cost versions of each formula, altered designs for the King of Destruction’s army. You know how you can smash a healing potion on someone? Who do you think made it so the glass shatters yet won’t break from sitting on it?”
She tapped her chest and grinned. Then she went on, sighing.
“Spells too. So much basic spellcraft like making a Rune of Cooling last another week—you come from Pallass, yes? Some of our designs they used on their ballistae. It was damned hard to get ahold of samples, but then we churned them out! The Drakes were always so confused at how we made them, but once you actually break one down…well, it’s teaching a generation to think without the need for Skills. Their Engineering Guild is a fine asset; if we’d worked with them, we’d have had the Flying Gnoll in the air a decade ago!”
That was the fearsome power of the Mad Ones, Pisces realized. Their hands were so subtle in how it had changed the world. On a hunch, he asked, and she grinned at him.
“No, not spell scrolls. The blend of papyrus or parchment used for it was long set before us. But His Majesty did need plenty, so we set up fields and tools to make more. Most of it still lies in Belchan; doubtless, he needs for more [Mages], but he will not ever need parchment again, unless those idiots burnt down all the workshops.”
Monsters of efficiency. That was the Mad Ones’ power. Mind you—they didn’t dislike the glorious bangs, either. Yerelia was chuckling as she recounted some other stories for the two Horns.
“And yes, sometimes he just wanted something to explode, so we’d all take a break and design five different spells or explosives for him! Then he’d have it hurled by a trebuchet, or Takhatres’ people would drop it on the enemy. Ah, those were sights indeed. Flos had too much money. We grew spoiled under his rule. We’d make something that exploded or a living magicore serpent that he’d unleash on his foes. True, it’d crater a hole through an enchanted wall, but it was never worth the cost, you see? It scared his foes, but this is better.”
This humble community at the edge of Nerrhavia’s Fallen? She nodded in response to Pisces’ words.
“Yes. Oh, we need more gold, but we are making things that can be scaled up, that are needed. Things not meant for war or combat alone—there were some ways in which they served more than that, but it drew too much focus. With too much gold, we make one-shot marvels, and that’s fun for a moment. They will not reach Terandria’s shores. Knowledge will. So this is my project. It has no commercial value, but it came with our understanding of Earth, so I have the funding for it for now.”
She hung another orb in the aquarium, and now Pisces and Yvlon focused on it. They peered at the floating ball of red with white clouds spinning through it.
“What is this, Engineer?”
“A planet. A simulation of interstellar bodies; I’m trying to approximate the exact gravity and flow of stars in this other world. Purely so we have a baseline to measure with. Some of the ideas these children come up with are fantastical, but we cannot tell if we’re making what they want too well or if their rules are different. Gravity, for instance. They claim it’s the same as their home, but they also claim their world is three times smaller than ours. Something is off—we want to know what. A shame we don’t have a map of our world, but, well…would you like to see how they’re supposed to orbit the sun?”
Yerelia pointed, and Pisces and Yvlon stared at each other. Their mouths opened.
The who now?
 
——
 
A young woman was standing behind a glowing barrier as Otevious worked on his projects, which included more magic than Yerelia’s had. He was peering at a canister of something that everyone was staying away from, using metal arms to manipulate it as he took the lid off.
“So, for the sake of our guests, you are telling me that the key to advanced pyrotechnic heat is not more magic. At least, in your world it is not. The secret that Dwarves hold over us in their Dwarfsteel is a more fundamental reaction. More fundamental than even alchemy—which we shall separate from ‘chemistry’ as two differing fields. One uses magic. The other…the most natural forces. Elemental.”
“Elements, yes, sir. And this might work because it’s not one exact combination—”
“It’s the reaction that matters. That goes against some alchemical truths that hold that it is usually one set of combinations that are incredibly difficult to replicate. Magic refuses to be put in a neat equation, often. But this? Once lit, this will create an extreme—what’s the word?”
“Exothermic reaction, sir. B-but it’s just a theory! A game theory, even! I don’t remember how it works—”
Otevious had a visor over his face, and he snapped it down with a maniacal grin.
“It’s a nice theory. Let’s test it. Three, two, one—”
He lit something. Whatever it was, it took a second to ignite the mixture of reddish dust that Colth and Ceria were peering at, but then there was a flare. An explosion of light, and Pisces saw the canister turn red-hot.
Something was burning in the center of it. Burning, and it did not go out despite not having…a flame? It was so damn hot that Pisces saw it melting the metal canister. Yvlon shifted, eying the metal, and stared.
“That’s no fire I’ve ever seen. Is it magic…?”
“It’s not magic.”
Colth responded quietly. The burning mixture tilted outwards as Otevious used his metal claws to tilt the mixture onto a variety of substances. Most of which the burning metal ate through—fast.
“It’s working! It’s wooooorking!”
He was shouting in delight. A crowd of Mad Ones were all watching, nodding—not cheering, but watching. And the young woman whispered.
“Thermite.”
“Non-magical thermite. Alchemists can produce the same reaction, but we did it without. No fire crystals. No salamander skins. I’m calling this—victory for replicable materials from Earth. Victory for their elemental table—I’m requesting money for a [Mage] capable of casting memory spells.”
One of the other Mad Ones was shouting as people took notes. Colth interrupted quietly.
“Victory for modern warfare?”
Otevious was lecturing the other Mad Ones about this compound. Which apparently, refused to go out when smothered. In fact, water would just make everything explode if you tried to pour it on this stuff. Pisces shivered as he imagined that being thrown on them. But to his surprise, the [Inventor] just turned and shook his head.
“It’s a finicky combination, Adventurer Colthei. If we can make a flask of it that detonates, I imagine it’ll scare Stitch-folk. Might be used to intimidate the poor Hemp-folk. I’ll vote against manufacturing it if that’s the only use-case. But even if we made it—and cheap—so what?”
He pointed at Pisces.
“I knew I remembered you lot somewhere. Liscor, yes? We were trying to buy that acid stuff. Don’t you get it from a fly over there?”
Pisces jumped.
“We do, sir, but—”
Otevious was taking apart the thermite, removing the unburnt material to stop the burning reaction as the young woman peeked over.
“I was going to breed some, but no one would transport the things. And a [Druid] we consulted said it might ‘spread across habitats and wipe out natural populations’. Bah. That’s acid in a jar at almost no cost. This is an expensive blend of metals you need to grind up. No comparison.”
In his books, acid beat thermite. At least in the case of throwing it in people’s faces. However, Otevious grunted.
“The real use for this isn’t pure violence. I’m thinking…if you slap a simple illusion over this? It’s a non-magical powder that melts locks, and the Acid Fly acid cannot do that. A [Rogue]’s friend. I want to test this on enchanted locks. Tell the Funding Committee that if we make a workable vial-sized prototype, we’ll have money coming in from every [Rogue] in the world.”
In a minute, he’d talked himself out of making a weapon of war and instead pivoted to a way to rob vaults. There it was again; Colth wore a genuinely unsettled expression as he tried to peer at the recipe list. He met Pisces’ eyes and nodded.
These people are actually dangerous. Pisces realized the occasional bang and noise from the exterior of the Mad One’s commune was a false illusion. The real danger was here.
“Alright, young lady, we’ve earned our funding for today. Let’s get some food, and you write up that report. Then we’ll chat about the uses of this stuff from your world.”
Otevious let his apprentice go, and Pisces saw the Earther dash off. He had to ask.
“Where did she come from?”
“Oh, we found her. That’s Botane. It was…a year ago? My, how time flies. Come, come, prospective clients. Let me offer you some food.”
The man led the way to some tables, and Yerelia had seen Yvlon too. They sat the Horns down and presented them with some actually quite good food.
…That someone had run from the city. And which also cost—Pisces nearly spat out his bite of pita bread filled with savory meat when Yvlon whispered the price in his ear.
“Eighty gold coins?”
The two inventors beamed at him.
“Nothing but the finest for our guests.”
They were charging the Horns for their food at insane markups! They really just wanted money, didn’t they? Otevious didn’t deny it either as he chuckled.
“All of this costs gold, guests. Plenty of it! Even if I were to make my rogue’s favorite device, I’ll give 70% of the profits to the Funding Committee.”
“They take your profits?”
Yvlon was aghast by the worst-sounding deal in the world, but again, the old Stitch-man just chuckled.
“We don’t care about personal wealth. Far better that I have anything I earn taken away so it can be allocated. No one gets all of what they want unless they have something truly, truly revolutionary. But by combining forces, we can all keep this going. Another plate?”
Pisces wisely refused a second helping, but he felt like this trip was illuminating if nothing else. Even Flos Reimarch hadn’t been as interesting as this group. Overwhelming, yes, but he felt like the Mad Ones were making things that would truly change the world. Colth was the skeptical one.
“May I ask how you met Miss Botane, Inventors? One doesn’t just find…Earthers. Larra never found one, and her inn moves.”
“Larracel the Haven doesn’t seem interested in people who aren’t above Level 40 or rich, Colth.”
Pisces returned softly, and Colth hesitated and bit his tongue before nodding.
“But the free bread—argh, but I don’t believe an Earther just pops into your camp. Did she seek you out?”
The [Engineer], Yerelia, was unabashedly eating the food the Horns had just paid for. She frowned.
“I think it was the scrying orbs, remember, Otevious?”
He snapped his fingers.
“It was. It was right when Wistram began mass-producing them. A few of the younger members of camp had them. Why not? Then someone—I think it was Addy?—noticed the spell was easily reversible. We didn’t like that. Cue us smashing over three dozen of the damn things and repurposing the crystal. But that got us paying attention, and we noticed weird scrying spells. Who made the sensor net?”
For a second, Yerelia stopped eating.
“Thomos.”
“Ah.”
Otevious pushed back his plate after a second. Then he swallowed and turned to the Horns.
“He built a rather impressive scrying spell detection network. It ‘caught’ spells and backtraced them. We saw who was sending and what they were searching at. We were all rather fired up about Wistram, you see. That’s when we noticed young folk getting grabbed. Botane was the fourth girl, and she was close enough that we rode out and nabbed her before anyone else did. Well, we did it with two other groups.”
Someone had been searching for Earthers? Pisces was astounded.
“How many do you have? May we meet them? We know someone—”
Colth nudged him hard, and Pisces kicked back, scowling. The secret was out! But Otevious just shook his head.
“Botane’s the only one who remains. The rest left. Or died. Whoever was after the Earthers sent [Assassins]. We suspect it was Roshal or someone connected to them. They destroyed Thomos’ scry-catcher, killed him, killed a number of our camp.”
Pisces lost his appetite abruptly. He sat there as Yerelia nodded. Both of the Mad Ones glanced across the camp towards where a gap might have been…? Someone had replaced whatever had been lost, and only they saw it.
“If it was Roshal, they wouldn’t have stopped until they got their quarry. So it wasn’t them.”
Colth’s voice had an edge to it despite his pleasant smile. But here was the last mistake he made. Otevious gave him a blank glance.
“It might have been them. We are not speculating more than we have, and the matter rests for now. It is not forgotten, Adventurer, but we are well aware of the risks of taking on a nation as we are. If the King of Destruction finds us, we will discuss it with him. Along with any other grudges we might have.”
Then he looked dangerous despite the sweat on his silly bald pate and simple inventor’s clothing. Colth frowned.
“But Roshal does not relent, sir. Believe me, they want Earthers. They wouldn’t stop at a hundred [Assassins]. They have endless Ranks.”
Yerelia pulled a plate over and took another pita sandwich and bit into it.
“So they do, young man. But even they run out of Faces. After the eleventh one we killed, they stopped. We are the Mad Ones of Chandrar. If they throw an artillery spell at us, we throw one back.”
Ah. So that was why they existed. Pisces wondered what kind of weapons the world’s greatest group of inventors had stored away. He shifted, and it was Yvlon, the Silver Killer, who sat up from where she might have been napping during the story. He frowned at her, but she gave the others a sleepy smile and said—
“On that topic, if you have anything we can use, we’ll buy it from you. At a fairer price than lunch.”
The two inventors grinned. They’d been hoping she’d say that.
 
——
 
Ceria caught up with Pisces after the second hour of being in the Mad Ones’ camp. He was essentially being given the run of their inner area. He could walk over, and one of the Mad Ones would put aside what they were doing—assuming they could—and pull out whatever they had that he thought he’d like.
More than one was open to making something for him, but then you were talking budget, timeframe, expectations…Ceria walked over and leaned on his shoulder.
“Pisces, I’m ready to go.”
He turned to her.
“Ceria, this is the most incredible camp we’ve ever been to! You haven’t even asked about all the things they’ve made, surely—”
She rolled her eyes.
“Yeah, yeah. It’s amazing, they’re smart, I can see why everyone wants them. But there’s not going to be anything for us. Colth, yes. Yvlon? Maaaaybe, but I doubt it.”
“They’ve invented amazing things, Ceria—”
She peered at him, then shrugged.
“Okay, sure. I’m gonna nap like Yvlon. Let me know when you’ve worked it out.”
So saying, Ceria wandered off to find a place to snooze, and Pisces stood there and was unaccountably stung.
That implied he was missing something. That implied she thought with her circlet she’d figured out—why not just tell him?
Dissonance, again, with his team. He would have loved nothing more than to go around, the four of them, inspecting each item and arguing whether they needed it. But his team wasn’t together.
Ceria was cocooning herself in ice magic to avoid potential accidents, snoozing in the street. Colth was running from inventor to inventor, trying to figure out what to buy with his funds. And Yvlon?
“Come now, Yvlon. This is fun! Let’s go around.”
She tried, he could tell. But she was leaning on him, and she was heavy.
“Sorry, Pisces. I didn’t get good sleep last night, I think. I’m exhausted. It is fun, it is.”
After their late night of discussing the raid, Pisces could admit he wasn’t the freshest, but he tried to put some energy into both of them.
“They have everything from weapons to homemade spells.”
“Ksmvr would love it here. Please don’t buy a home-made spell.”
That, uh, was the thing. Anything the Mad Ones made was usually a prototype, and they were fairly good about warning you that user-injury was likely if you used a spell or invention. Or…bomb.
 
——
 
Botane was helping do sales. Apparently, the young Earther had been inducted into the Mad Ones’ senior membership as a kind of roving apprentice. She was advertising to Trader Hexata, Colth, and a few other clients and exasperating one of the Mad Ones.
“And here we have an attempt at a Djinni’s magical makeup, madam and sirs, which was made of gaseous magicore infused with—”
“It’s a bomb. It explodes in a cloud, and no one knows what it does.”
The group edged back from the container made of, alarmingly, wood. The Mad One in question, Adda the Alchemist, glared.
“It’s a beautiful experiment even the Djinni admired, Botane! Ignore her. Here we have another attempt at the cumulus Djinni’s body—”
“It’s also a bomb. This one has 20% more magic in it.”
Botane indicated the item, and Colth checked his money pouch. And whispered.
“[Check Integrity]…pass on that.”
Everyone instantly passed on the second canister, and Adda put it carefully into a reinforced chest. Then put that chest in a second chest. Then loaded it into a vault in a trolley. The vault was made of steel, Pisces couldn’t help but note, and enchanted. When she lowered the entire contraption into the ground, he decided to step back.
“Very well, very well, how about one of my best flasks? Perfect for a—”
“It fills the tunnel with a long line of clouds which explode. It was another version of the Djinni bomb.”
Colth did bid on that one. He began haggling with the others as Adda pulled Botane aside.
“Young woman, I appreciate your help, but please, stop characterizing all my inventions in such simple terms!”
“If it blows up, Alchemist, it’s a bomb. They’re going to buy your works.”
“Yes, but the Djinnis loved the attempts! They said so!”
“They said it was ‘hilarious’ to get you to make more, Alchemist. Look, they’re going to buy them! Excuse me, if you like that—”
Pisces would have loved to talk to her; she had a few scars he could see, but he wasn’t sure if she’d gotten them from here or just…coming to this place. However, he was distracted because while he was not in the market for…bombs…the Mad Ones knew he had gold.
And they were a-hunting.
“Necromancer! Silver Killer! I have just the item for you. Are you tired of fighting crowds? Would you like to walk into a room and obliterate everything? This is a lovely, lovely experiment in dimensional magic that sucked in a lot of wires and a few people that I could part ways with! Now, I imagine that once you unleash this, it will let the wires out at high speed.”
Pisces eyed the orb he was being offered, and here was the thing: he didn’t want to hold the contained ball of wires.
In fact, he didn’t want to be anywhere near a compressed orb of what he was told was five hundred feet of steel wire compressed into about a baseball’s worth of space. He didn’t think it would go well in a bag of holding, and he was not sleeping in the same building with that around.
When he said that to the [Enchanter], the man was very understanding.
“Absolutely, absolutely. I would have definitely said that putting it in a bag of holding would be an amazing way to murder yourself. I assumed you wouldn’t do that. How stupid do you think the average person is…? Hold on, let me get a piece of paper to write that down.”
He hurried off, and Yvlon sat down on the ground. Pisces nudged her.
“Yvlon, are you playing into your Silver Killer role? Did you not break out into a sweat at the sight of that thing?”
“What? No, I got it’d kill us, Pisces. I’m just…I’m sorry, I really need a nap. I’m gonna lie down on Ceria.”
She got up, and he hung his head glumly. Was it that boring…? No, he thought she was genuinely tired. But what did Ceria mean? That ball of compressed space was definitely Named-rank gear. Transport and safety issues aside, he couldn’t name anyone who wouldn’t fear that thing.
The answer came to him with the next prospective seller: Otevious himself. He walked over with an object in his hands.
“This may interest you, Necromancer. I’m told you do something with the rapier? Any [Rogue] crossover, perchance?”
“I do use [Invisibility], but I’m afraid not, sir. Colth is our generalist.”
Otevious hmmed.
“A shame. Well, let me pitch you on this. I was a Gold-ranker myself as a lad. I did a bit of the old dungeon raiding, and I dabbled in smithing, magic—I’m not a huge fan of alchemy, but I’ve gotten into the chemistry stuff.”
He was a genius. Someone who made things for the joy of it as much as chasing after value. And what he’d made was…
At first, Pisces took it to be a stylish cigar case. It was made of wood, long and thin, and the real clue was the image of a cigar on it. It also said Cigar Case, which Pisces felt was slightly redundant. Otevious even slid open the case to reveal space for exactly, uh, one cigar.
Pisces was about to ask what kind of cigar it was in the spirit of things when the [Inventor] flicked his wrist and a piece of metal snapped outwards. It locked into place with a click as two other sections unfolded and locked into place.
In a moment, the man was holding a shortsword with an actual edge. Pisces stared at the composite, folding sword Otevious had made and resisted the urge to applaud wildly. The Mad One smiled at the expression on Pisces’ face.
“I did the same thing with other weaponry. But daggers are so concealable—a rapier is a long, flexible piece of metal. Very difficult, but if we made part of the blade telescoping—this is a prototype. Would you like to see my concept for a personal rapier?”
 
——
 
An unfolding sword. Pisces stared at a bunch of roughs on a piece of canvas that showed exactly how each piece could unfold and fit together to form a rapier. It would, when assembled, compress into a block of metal about as long as his hand.
It seemed insane, but Otevious was confident it could be done.
“The trick will be a magical alloy. Not too magical or it would defeat the purpose of a backup weapon. But with it you’d have a blade you could smuggle into a room. Now, the flick-action should result in the full blade. It might not be the sturdiest, but—”
A sharp rapier when no one thought you had one? Even in battle, you could surprise a foe! Pisces was like a kid looking at magical toys.
“That—that does seem useful, Master Otevious, and I would be in Chandrar for a while longer. How much would one—?”
“Five thousand gold pieces.”
Five thousand!? Then again, Pisces caught himself, he could pay for that. And this was the most interesting blade he’d ever seen. True, the handle wasn’t that impressive since it had to unfold, but when he heard that, Otevious had an idea.
“What if the handle were a mesh guard that expanded when you flicked it? I’d have to prototype it, but that’s intriguing…and I was going to make it just a piece of metal, but if you had a good cover for the item? A flute? I could potentially try to find space to make it a case—”
A custom-made unfoldable rapier. Not in a cigar case, but Pisces was rubbing his hands together.
“This—I think I may have room in my budget to commission this, Master Otevious. You see, I do not have a rapier of sufficient quality myself. This is what I am working with—”
When he showed the man the bone-metal rapier, Otevious was very interested and lifted it, remarking upon how Pisces had married ivory and steel to create a working balance.
“You say you reforged it in the middle of a battle?”
He frowned as Pisces nodded.
“I’ve been practicing spells to remake my blade in case that should happen again. [Bone Rapier]—if I have the ivory.”
He cast the spell he’d improvised, and a rapier made of bone grew from his bag of holding. It was slightly off when he held it up; a bit unbalanced. And [Flame Rapier] was good, but as Pisces had learned in his duel, dangerous to use on a foe who didn’t care for the flames. But with the metal one—
When the [Inventor] saw Pisces conjuring both rapiers, his interest and excitement in his unfoldable rapier project vanished. Pisces didn’t understand at first and thought the rapiers were just too showy or unimpressive. But the man took his unfoldable shortsword prototype, then pulled the concepts of the rapier off the drawing easel and laid them aside. He smiled.
“Well, that’s a shame. But if there’s anything else I have…?”
“I’m sorry, Master Otevious? I thought we were coming to a deal.”
Pisces was confused, but the [Inventor] just nodded to his designs.
“I can see you’re well served with improvised weaponry. I should have expected no less from a [Necromancer].”
“But your unfoldable rapier was a masterwork of metallurgy! I’d gladly pay for it!”
The style! Yet Otevious waved it off.
“It is nice. But if it’s just for vanity, pardon me if I don’t waste our time on it. That’s the problem with making weapons, you see? His Majesty was always complimentary, but…it’s just hard.”
He sat on his messy workbench, and Pisces felt a tingle on the back of his neck. Ceria’s words came back to him.
“I’m sorry, Master Otevious, I fear I’ve offended your sensibilities. I don’t follow.”
The Mad One glanced up and smiled. He explained, kindly, to Pisces what the issue was.
“I take no offense, and it’s nothing you’ve said. It’s just magic, young man. Magic is our enemy, for all we use it. It is damned hard to beat. Here, let me show you an example.”
He hunted around his workspace and then came up with a shortsword, a simple one enchanted with a cutting spell.
“A good testing benchmark. This is a simple blade, the kind any Level 20 [Enchanter] and [Blacksmith] who pour some energy into their work can make. It is…difficult to surpass. You have seen our numerous creations, many of which are deadly. Most of which cannot be mass-replicated. A benchmark we use in our camps for weapons is: is it better than a [Fireball]?”
Pisces blinked. A [Fireball]? A Tier 3 spell most [Mages] could cast…he saw Otevious gesture at the folding blade.
“That would be the work of a month. Custom prototyping, advanced metals—all for what? A blade that springs to hand when you could cast [Bone Rapier] and produce one nearly as fine in a moment. There is no point to my invention, Necromancer. In the same way, this shortsword…there is nothing I can do, from a mechanical sense, to best it. A simple cutting spell and it is sharper, more deadly than most blades. Oh, I could make a spring-loaded blade that does more damage—for single swing. But I am defeated again.”
By magic. Pisces sat down as the Mad One flipped the blade up and caught it by the hilt. He glared at the enchanted shortsword, then shrugged.
“We live in a world where magic exceeds science. Except for maybe the weapons of Earth…which I do not feel like creating as of yet. And even then, can they beat the true foe, the one that humbles us all?”
“What would that be, Master Otevious?”
The Mad Ones had magic. Otevious seemed to enjoy more mechanical projects, but Pisces had seen any number of magical creations here too. But the man just waggled his finger in Pisces’ face.
“The real foe is not just magic. I thought it was, but in truth, it is simply…rarity. Or as I put it, levels. Earth is delightful because it is not as convenient as our world, you see.”
He folded his hands together, and Pisces frowned at him.
“I don’t follow. They have achieved a higher level of technology in some ways—but they lack magic.”
Otevious nodded.
“They also lack rarity and levels. That darling girl tells me they have made weapons that erase cities. I told her we made the same. She told me hers can destroy an island. Hers could pollute a thousand miles and leave it dead. I told her we sank the Continent of Glass. Damned nations with a single spell.”
The City of Shields in the Crossroads had been destroyed when they threw a volcano at it. After turning all metal to…Pisces shivered, and Otevious nodded again.
“The difference is, Necromancer Pisces, one world does this with fundamental elements, however rare. They can mass-manufacture what they want within limits because it is a formula. Here? It is a Level 80 [Archmage]. And that is why we win and lose. That is why my sword is useless. Because on Earth, Dwarfsteel is a top-tier metal. Here? If I were to want to improve it, I’d hire someone to dig for Adamantium or better. Or find a [Smith] with [Forge of the Supreme Temperance] or some such…”
Ah, and there it was. Pisces finally got it. Otevious patted him on the shoulder, not resigned or even upset, but just…realistic. Brutally so.
“In a sense, we Mad Ones are mad because we are challenging the true rulers of creation: levels. We lose, time and time again. Your [Bone Rapier] spell has bested my invention. Well done, I applaud you on your levels, young man. I shall do better.”
Pisces twisted as Otevious put the show-weapon aside. He tried to protest, offer the man a flower because he did have great appreciation for all this.
“Master Otevious, I truly do think your blade design is inspired. An [Assassin] might make great use of it—”
“Or simply gain a Skill that lets them hide a blade. I would look into a mithril rapier, young man. Or an enchanted one. There is no point to mine, made of simple metal, because you cannot enchant sections of metal the same way. Perhaps if I made a blade with the help of a Level 50 [Enchanter], such that each segment were pure mithril and enchanted with runecraft so there was no magical interference on each part…”
Otevious sat back, speculating, then glanced up at Pisces and grinned.
“…But it would just be one. And take too much time, you see? Come, come, let’s see if anyone else has something worth you buying.”
He chivvied Pisces up, not actually that down, but then Pisces saw what Ceria’s intelligence had already led her to understand.
Aside from, well, a one-time explosive, Pisces and Ceria were [Mages]. They cast magic, and the Mad Ones were in a race against them. What they had…Pisces gazed at a spring-loaded axe hanging on Otevious’ wall.
“Does that work, Master Otevious?”
“Oh, splendidly. You hit something with it and the compressed springs explode outwards. It could down a man in plate. But it might shatter your hand, and the springs require a tool to compress again.”
The man beamed with self-evident pride for the creation he had worked so hard on. Both he and Pisces knew that aside from maybe Colth, no one would ever use it. And Colth…probably just once. It hurt Pisces’ chest a bit, because there was something in this place that made him wish it were more respected.
What the [Necromancer] didn’t realize, of course, was that he was no gifted liar. The Mad Ones had seen royalty, adventurers, the desperate, all come for their treasures. He was an unguarded fellow, for all that he was. They saw his dismay and appreciated that, of all the Horns.
Mind you, they did wish he’d spend more.
 
——
 
The problem, in the end, was that Pisces had not enough time in the Mad Ones’ camp and the mentality Colth had lectured him on.
He still spent like a Silver-ranker, which was to say, not at all. Whenever someone quoted him anything above a hundred gold pieces, he winced. Several thousand and he just didn’t have the ability to buy it.
Even useful things! The Mad Ones had magical items on sale. Not everything, not private projects, but one gamely showed him a series of enchanted pots.
“These are designed to eat magical interference and still maintain holding. How it works is that it’ll start to vibrate—then crack as you exceed your interference. You can use them as Bags of Holding or as ways to survive your equipment detonating. Store it until you have that issue.”
They were a set of six, each one designed to break in such a way that they vented the magical dissonance and bought you time to transport gear—or just made your bag of holding sixteen times larger. It was splendid, and Pisces saw the use case for them.
…He didn’t spend thirteen thousand gold pieces on them. He could have. Pisces had estimated he could spend forty-six thousand gold pieces on—on something. But when he tried to make himself buy these useful items he might well need if they found magical loot or just to carry things—
Thirteen thousand gold pieces? When it would break? After twenty minutes, the Mad One sighed. That was the problem they faced.
Trader Hexata was perusing the shops and making deals too—Pisces saw her, but she couldn’t have afforded the pots nor found a buyer. So the Mad Ones needed either something cheap and mass-producible or a big spender.
Pisces was not that kind of person. He hemmed, hawed, appreciated their work, and spent nothing, and they would have begun chasing him away, politely, for the sin of getting their hopes up but for that other annoying thing about him—he wasn’t a complete idiot.
“So this crossbow auto-cranks itself with each shot?”
“Partially. The impact reloads it slightly, but you crank the entire thing back anyways—it’s designed for someone who can use [Power Shot] or overload it. In theory, it would almost perfectly reload without magic. Which then lets you enchant it with something else instead of a reloading spell. I’ve had two Hunters from Noelictus ask about it, but the perfect buyer…”
A somewhat brusque [Tinkerer] knew Pisces wasn’t going to buy it, but she did have to show off. She was going to pointedly suggest he go to another of her associates when he murmured.
“Fascinating. You know, I had a similar design in a skeleton I made.”
“Really?”
She raised a brow, and Otevious, who had been about to go back to his workshop, half-turned. They weren’t entirely dismissive, but Pisces hesitated.
“I—it wasn’t so adept. A friend dared me to innovate, you see. And they couldn’t reload since I never figured out how to have them self-crank the crossbows or reach around inside. Too much fine control when I mass-animated them.”
“So you created a mass-animatable skeleton with a crossbow mechanism inside? Uh huh. And you’re Level 60? An honor.”
She took off a glove to shake his hand, revealing a lot of scars from accidents with wires, and he raised his hands.
“No, no! I was entirely inept, you see? My teacher at the time also speculated it was a waste of complexity because you’d be able to animate less. I—drat—let me just show you. Animate Skeleton Chestburster!”
It took him a second to remember how, but when a skeleton with the ribcage configured to blow up did arise, the two Mad Ones blinked, and then the [Tinkerer] was leaning forwards.
“Wait, this is a hurling design. Very simple, but—”
“Careful, it’ll snap and explode in your—”
Pisces grew alarmed, but she instantly disarmed the mechanism by pulling the bone that would snap outwards and spray bone shrapnel. Then Otevious was peering in as well.
“I’ve seen Goblins build similar weapons. Simple use of compressed force…but that’s the necromantic challenge, isn’t it? You can create an entire crossbow out of bone, Calice. I once saw a [Necromancer] do it in a single spell.”
“Impressive.”
“Yes, but it’s such a headache he couldn’t do it twice, and it costs more mana. This is a good mix between efficiency and complexity! Hey, Poetr, you like undead? Come see this!”
Pisces puffed up a bit as they called other Mad Ones over to see. Right up until Calice made a comment.
“I doubt it aims well, though. And the force won’t take out anyone in armor. Plenty of room to adapt; is this the first trial? How many iterations did you go through?”
“I, ah—well, this one worked, and I’ve barely used them in combat—”
Their looks of appreciation became ones of sardonic exasperation instantly. Pisces lifted his hands.
“It wasn’t a viable concept, and I have Skeleton Champions!”
“Well, if you kept it here, it wasn’t viable. Far be it from me to tell a [Necromancer] his business. How many undead have you created that are new? I’d love to see them.”
“Well, ah, new—”
Poetr slapped his forehead.
“Oh dead gods, he’s an Az’kerash [Necromancer]. Mass-summoner. No offense, I’m sure it works well, but he was a very uninventive spellcaster, historically speaking. You know?”
Pisces tried to protest, but he’d thought the same thing himself. Even so—
“He was one of the two most powerful Archmages of the time, though, sir! And a master duelist and—”
“Oh, no, I’d never deny that. Have you studied his life? I have a lot of proscribed accounts of his battle prowess, and as a duelist, he was supreme. As a creator…I think it was Terandrian sensibilities. When I compare that to the [Necromancer] who invented the Crypt Lords…”
“Er, someone invented Crypt Lords?”
They smiled as Poetr insisted Pisces have a cup of tea with him and began to talk undead, even if not all of them were experts. Some had fought undead, and Calice had once come up with the concept of a skeleton bound to an oversized crank-crossbow which would revolutionize loading speeds—Noelictus hadn’t wanted to buy or trial her designs.
They chatted more with him, because one had to, of course. There was a mind behind that poor adventurer’s brain of his, and it was the duty of the Mad Ones to engage it. Unfortunately, it meant they lost the chance to upsell more stuff onto him, but sacrifices had to be made.
 
——
 
When Colth found his team, he was flushed from running around buying things. Ceria was eating overpriced food, Pisces was not really reading his spellbook, and Yvlon was asleep.
“I’m finished buying items. Did you get anything?”
“Nope.”
The other three Horns’ complete lack of purchases made Colth scowl. He nudged Yvlon with a foot. She was dead asleep on the ground.
“Come on, we have to at least see if we can convince the Mad Ones to move to Reim.”
“They clearly don’t wish to, Colth. Unless we can secure transport, it seems pointless. I’d try moving them to Germina, but assuming we cannot get them to leave, where are we bound next?”
Pisces glanced up, and Colth hesitated.
“Well, pending Her Majesty wanting us to make up for our debacle, we could roam some of the eastern cities. Search for Pisces’ friends.”
Pisces sat up a bit. Bearig, Merr, Eloque—his heart began to beat faster. Ceria glanced at him and stopped shovelling loaded fries into her mouth.
“Sounds good. Let’s get going. I say we skip even talking to them. They’re crazy, but boring crazy after all. Hey, Yvlon. Yvlon, c’mon, we’re going.”
She nudged Yvlon again, and the woman didn’t wake up. Ceria and Colth tried before Ceria smirked, then reached over.
She shot a snowball into Yvlon’s face, and the [Armsmistress] came up swinging.
“CERIA—”
She spluttered, lurched two steps after Ceria, then sat down. And yawned. Colth frowned at her.
“C’mon, Yvlon. What’s with you?”
“I don’t…know. I’m just really tired. Are we leaving yet? Did anyone explode?”
“Not for lack of trying. C’mon.”
Pisces got up, a bit disconsolate. The Horns were walking out of the camp, and Otevious and the others hadn’t come to see them off. They’d done their business, and Pisces didn’t see Trader Hexata.
There was something off about the entire trip, he decided. It just wasn’t fun. He didn’t know what had changed. Even going to Invrisil or camping outside the walls hadn’t been always mindblowing, but there had been an enjoyable component that was lacking here.
Part of it was Ceria, Colth doing things his way, or Yvlon being tired but the team just wasn’t…together. He knew the others were feeling the same way, at least, Ceria and Colth did. He was making plans.
“Okay, let’s head for an eastern city. We might as well put Delitandra’s group to work. We’ll get some actual progress done on our goals.”
“Yeah, and we could do some strategizing in the carriage. You know, how to fight together and not get wiped out? Even fight some monsters.”
Pisces was reminded of something as they approached the walls and realized they didn’t have a ladder. Ceria obligingly began to make some ice stairs, and he did the same. They stared at each other’s ramps, and Pisces began to de-animate his only for Ceria to do it first.
“Bone before ice, especially stairs.”
“Er, thank you, Ceria. I was going to ask, but I forgot—Delitandra, what about that Jaw of Zeikhal? Did anyone end up stopping it?”
Delitandra and the Heromakers had been observing the Horns and taking notes. Possibly, they dovetailed with Pisces’ feeling, because Delitandra leapt forwards.
“Ah, to that, Pisces, I do know it was ended. So do not fear for commonfolk.”
He did relax at that; it had hurt his conscience. She strode up the stairs with him.
“In fact, the one who took out the Jaw was one of the adventurers you met in Tyrant’s Rest. It was none other than Itkisa herself.”
“Torreb’s daughter? She took it out by herself?”
Pisces was surprised. A single adventurer had taken out a Jaw of Zeikhal? Even a young one—Torreb had been famous for killing one in single combat. There was someone who clearly wanted to capitalize on her father’s myth. Or perhaps, reforge it anew. He rubbed at his chin.
“If we assume all the teams we met were hired to go against us in some capacity, then it follows that she might have been hired to fight us as well.”
He climbed the walls separating the Mad Ones from the rest of the world and stopped. A sleepy Yvlon walked into his back and nearly fell down the stairs. Colth had to push her back up. She complained.
“Pisces—”
Then she heard a voice, and her head snapped up. Pisces stared down the wall at a figure who stood outside the Mad One’s commune. The wind blew at her cloak, and she still, even now, looked too different from what he felt she should be.
Like a mother despite the chainmail she wore and the oversized club planted in the dirt. Itkisa, the newly-made Gold-rank adventurer, lifted the club one-handed, and it was as tall as she was. She pointed it at Pisces.
“I was hired to defeat your team, Horns of Hammerad. I thought, from the stories of you, that you’d fight the Jaw over the Tomb. My mistake. Shall we?”
Pisces stared at her. She smiled at him, and he felt a crawl down his back. Ceria was mouthing at him.
Stall. Colth was swearing as he reached for a bow.
“Hey, Itkisa! Are you sure you know what you’re doing? There’s four of us and—”
He was calling out in a loud, confident voice when Pisces saw the woman tense. She crouched, and he shouted.
“Watch out—”
She leapt, and he [Flash Stepped] off the walls. Yvlon blinked up as the woman fell to earth, club swinging. Pisces half-turned, drawing his r—
Itkisa hit the walls, and they exploded. Dirt rained down. The ground shook—was it still shaking? Pisces stumbled and saw a figure rising from the hole she’d cleaved in the compound’s defenses. She turned, and he swallowed.
Aw, hells. Then the second adventurer battle in as many days began.
 
——
 
She just didn’t look right. And she knew that too.
Itkisa wasn’t even the right…species. Torreb had been Stitch-folk. His body had been thread and cloth so scarred and pitted by war it had made him look like the Hemp-folk. But no one had ever asked him his thread.
He had transcended social norms. He had been the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, perhaps the world. The unstoppable force that armies feared. Whom even Mars the Illusionist had not eclipsed.
Her father. Itkisa knew Torreb better than anyone else in the world. His wives had not outlived him or stayed with him, for Torreb was exactly as people had known him: unpredictable, unshackled by rules, prone to violence or whimsy. He could have passed from this world into the next like that whirlwind, shifting things around by his passage, but for one thing.
Her. Itkisa’s mother had claimed a Skill from him.
[Inheritance: My Father’s Strength]. A simple Skill. A brave Skill for a mother to leave a child. He’d killed her for it, even though it hadn’t taken anything from him. Torreb had just hated the fact that someone else had gained what he had earned himself. As if that were cheating. Perhaps it was. Even now, she didn’t know how to use his strength. He had never taught her. He’d kept her by his side for a lifetime, terrified she’d grow up and kill him in the way of brutal succession, like they were animals.
To be fair, she had killed him at the end. Just not the way he’d expected.
Well, she’d waited decades to find out who she was. And yes, she looked like a mother despite never having borne children. She wasn’t a lithe figure nor scarred by battle. She was thickset, stomach wrapped with a colorful band of red cloth one of her half-sisters had given her. One of the few not fighting over Torreb’s wealth. Her armor a mix of cheap chainmail, battered and scavenged for she had no coins; he had left her nothing. Leather under it that she might move around freely. No potions, no magical items. Just a single club.
One woman versus four storied adventurers, one a Named-ranker. The world’s most famous team, arguably. Itkisa fell like a comet, and only someone like her would know why she smiled.
Smiled like a girl, alive for the first day in so long.
A shard of ice grazed her cheek and tore her bronze skin open. The half-Elf would have shot Itkisa through the cheek but for her moving her head. So fast. Deadly—
But she saw them. The [Supporter] raising a bow, then switching as he observed how fast she was coming down, dropping it and drawing his blades. The yawning [Armsmistress] who didn’t react, blinking upwards and her pupils dilating.
All a moment. Then Itkisa struck the ground with the force contained in her body. Like a child hammered the earth. Not too hard. She could split the club if she swung it too hard, despite the magic on it.
It wasn’t even a Skill. Just—
Impact. Dirt heaved upwards in a column around her, and she shielded her face with her free arm. For a second, she was blinded by her own att—
Dodge. The second spell came through the dirt, an [Ice Lance] that would have hit her in the chest. Flawless aim, as fast as an arrow. If she was just Torreb’s strength, she would have been dead.
But she was a [Warrior] in her own right, and it was still slower than a cup that Torreb hurled when drunk. Itkisa punched the [Ice Lance] and grimaced.
Pain. A cold shock as it exploded. Her flesh wasn’t as tough as she needed it to be. Like the King of Destruction, the only man Torreb had thought might win an arm-wrestling competition with him. She knew the [Supporter] and [Armsmistress] were here, so Itkisa did as Torreb had done.
She swung her club again. And the dirt, a second spell—everything in her reach vanished.
 
——
 
The explosion of Itkisa landing was followed by a second one in moments. Pisces had no idea what was going on; he’d taken cover reflexively. Then he saw a spray of what he thought was Ceria’s ice magic—but in fragments?
Then the wind hurled shrapnel at him. Three impacts on his chest; he grunted and sat down. His underarmor saved him, but what…
Dirt.
Dirt and stones. Hurled by her swing. When Pisces got up, she was swirling that club around. One-handed, laughing.
The Horns were all running for it. Yvlon was stumbling away as Colth dove and rolled out of the way of Itkisa’s strike. Ceria was hiding behind three [Ice Walls], firing [Ice Lances] at Itkisa. But the woman was alternating between dodging, punching, and swinging through the magic.
“Incredible.”
Pisces aimed a finger at Itkisa’s back and hesitated. Again, this all felt wrong. She was a fellow adventurer. Why were they fighting…?
But she was terrifyingly strong. Strong in a way that instantly spoke to him of a Named-ranker. That strength…Pisces shouted.
“Itkisa, stop! We don’t want to fight with you!”
[Deathbolt]. It shot at her, and she turned, saw it coming, and went to punch the magic with her free hand. Then block it with her club. Her face twisted with uncertainty. Then she sidestepped, cursing.
—She walked straight into an explosion. One of Colth’s flasks hit her and blew up. He followed it with a charge, and Itkisa leapt clear of the blast. Her skin was bloodied and charred, but she had some kind of toughness Skill or she’d be dead. She snarled.
“Pisces! Flank her with Colth at range! I’m going to chill her!”
Ceria shouted, and the air around Itkisa grew cold. She was backing up, and Colth was keeping out of range of her swinging club. It was longer than she was tall but she swung it as fast as Pisces could swing a shortsword! He couldn’t get close—so he flipped something else at her face.
Acid flask. This time, she went to catch it, and it exploded in midair. Colth’s Skill—it showered her in steaming acid, and Pisces cried out at the same time as Itkisa.
Before the acid could coat her fully, Itkisa did something Pisces had never seen before. She had a traveller’s cloak on her shoulders. She didn’t reach for a potion; instead she grabbed her cloak and swung it around her.
She snapped the cloak, and the gust of wind snapped all the acid off her skin. The spray of it hit Colth, and he leapt back, shouting.
“Dead gods—”
Could you do that? Manifestly, but Itkisa was panting. Sweat and some acid on her skin froze over, and she glanced at Ceria.
“So this is…how did he say to do it again?”
She was muttering. Colth had sheathed his shortswords and was juggling an assortment of alchemical weapons. He gave her a sinister smile.
“Surrender or you’re not going to survive the next attack. You have thirty seconds before you’re a block of ice or a new corpse for Pisces to use.”
Itkisa met his eyes, her orange irises flashing in anger. For answer, she tightened the grip on her club. Colth backstepped fast—but he missed the woman’s next trick. Itkisa had dug one of her sandals into the ground. Pisces shouted.
“Colth! Watch out—”
Itkisa kicked sand at Colth. Another simple trick unless you were so strong—
It looked like an attack spell. Sand and dirt nearly hit the [Ultimate Supporter], who dodged with a Skill. He came up, eyes wide, and Itkisa—
Kicked again. Colth vanished in a spray, and she pointed.
“You.”
Ceria was aiming a wand at Itkisa, concentrating hard. She saw the woman draw back one hand and blinked.
“No w—”
The club smashed through two of Ceria’s [Ice Walls] and nearly took the third one out. The shockwave still slammed Ceria down. She lay there, gasping for air, when she saw Itkisa leaping at her. One fist drawn back to punch through the spells…
Yvlon hit Itkisa before the woman landed. The two collided with a sound like ringing metal, and then they were punching, rolling—before a blow tossed Yvlon back onto her feet, and Itkisa rolled upright. She had a bloodied nose. Yvlon had a dent in her face.
But her body was metal. [Aspect of Iron]. She shook her head, and her face re-formed as she raised her fists. Sluggishly. Pisces appeared behind Itkisa, shouting.
“Enough! We don’t have a quarrel with you!”
She twisted around, and four Skeleton Champions rushed at her. To stop her, not—she punched through one’s face and tore through another with a fist so fast the third and fourth were stumbling when she kicked through both of them. Pisces ducked a flying piece of bone, but he had a finger aimed at her. Again, she hesitated and went to k—
He nearly stepped away, but she stopped. Why? He realized he was standing in the ruined wall; the Mad Ones’ camp was behind them. She pivoted, and the spray of dirt missed the camp—he had already stepped away from the gap as well.
For a second, they hesitated, and Pisces wavered as Itkisa frowned at him.
“Pisces—just [Deathbolt] her three times. She can survive it.”
Ceria croaked as she crawled up and conjured an [Icy Floor] spell. The half-Elf tried to skate away as Itkisa swivelled. She angled herself to face both Yvlon and Pisces at the same time.
Barehanded—she was lifting a palm towards Pisces, a fist towards Yvlon. Martial arts? She seemed warier of Pisces than Yvlon for reasons he didn’t understand until she spoke.
“It’s harder than I thought. Fighting other adventurers. My father always feared monsters over men. But he faced the greatest of monsters. Hitting someone like that—”
Ceria was skating away at speed, eschewing static defenses. She fired another [Ice Lance] at Itkisa’s face. Itkisa pivoted—grabbed the [Ice Lance], and threw it.
Completely wide. It went flying into the distance as Pisces and Yvlon stared at it. But they had never seen someone grab a spell and throw it back. He widened his eyes at Yvlon.
Do I cover you? He wasn’t about to go in close against that woman, even bare-handed. Yvlon…yawned at him. Then gritted her teeth.
“Something’s wrong. Itkisa, why are we fighting?”
“For glory. You are the most famous team in Chandrar. How else am I to make my name?”
Itkisa re-pivoted to them and kicked again—Ceria ran into a second storm of dirt and coughed. The woman’s eyes darted right, left, and Pisces croaked.
“I have no desire to kill you.”
She focused on him and smiled—then her eyes grew round in alarm. She whirled with a cry, and Colth stabbed into her from the side. [Greater Invisibility]! She was quick—he got in two slashes, but her punch sent him skidding across the ground. Pisces fired a [Deathbolt] into Itkisa’s legs. She dodged the second one, staggering. Yvlon—
—Had missed her opening. She stumbled forwards. Itkisa was cursing. She reached into her bag of holding as she searched around for her weapon, but it was far out of reach.
“To the death, then?”
Colth and Pisces hesitated as Ceria shouted.
“[Dangersense]! Get back!”
The woman was checking her bleeding body and damaged armor. She ruefully shook her head.
“A team is better than a woman alone. Magic. [Rogues]. Though you’re not much of a team. Ksmvr of Chandrar was more frightening.”
“We’re more than enough for you. Back off.”
Yvlon Byres was walking at Itkisa, swaying. Pisces was moving left, invisible, and he saw Colth crouching as he snuck up on Itkisa’s back. Ceria was casting as Itkisa peered around, tensing—and then she focused on the Silver Killer.
Something was very wrong with Yvlon. She wasn’t running at Itkisa, and her eyes were unfocused. She took two more steps, silver hands clenched, then…yawned. Her eyes rolled up in her head, and Itkisa halted, hand still in her bag of holding.
“Ah. You’ve already fallen prey to the empire’s games.”
She regarded Yvlon, then turned away from the woman. Almost sympathetically, she looked straight at Pisces—and Yvlon fell forwards on her face.
“Yvlon?”
Pisces stared, and Colth shouted.
“Poison—no, it was the damn kiss! Get her out of here, Ceria—”
He charged Itkisa as Pisces took aim. He didn’t want to [Deathbolt] her again, and she was staring at him.
She doesn’t know how my magic works or if she can block it. She was going to come for him. He prepared to [Flash Step] and then heard Ceria shout again.
“[Dangersense]! Oh tree rot—[Fortress of the Ice Q—]”
He heard a whistling sound, glanced up, and saw something falling at him. Itkisa and Colth gazed upwards, and she bent and heaved the ground upwards as Colth leapt and covered Yvlon with his body.
“[Emergency Shield]—”
Then the falling ballista bolt split into eighteen separate shards which Pisces realized were individual arrows bound together in a single—
 
——
 
The explosion was still ringing in his ears. He got up and began to [Flash Step] around in a circle.
Dizzy, but he’d get killed if he stayed still. [Invisibility]—he couldn’t concentrate on the spell. Dust everywhere. He ran into someone in the cloud.
Ceria nearly shot an [Ice Lance] through his face. She was covered in dirt, but there was a shell of ice over her body. She mouthed at him. He blinked at her, and she slapped his head.
“[—store Hearing]! Take cover behind my barrier spells!”
She’d raised a glowing barrier. When had she learned to cast…? Pisces looked around as his head cleared and saw Yvlon and Colth. He’d dragged her behind a metal barrier he’d set up, and Itkisa was shaking her head. But she hadn’t fired…
The five brawling adventurers all turned, and they remembered where they were fighting. The wall around the Mad Ones’ camp was broken in where Itkisa had hit it, and a few tents were downed from Ceria’s magic or Itkisa kicking around dirt. But there was still a crowd of the Mad Ones.
And—Pisces felt compelled to focus on this—
Adelaide. She was sitting on some kind of weird contraption. It looked sort of like Bird’s ballista…if you’d attached the ballista to something that reminded Pisces of Pallass’ elevators. It was like an extending stand that put her twenty feet straight in the air. From this mobile platform, she’d fired a single bolt which had exploded on their position.
The entire contraption was noisily reloading, and Pisces saw another Mad One aiming a five-tubed something at him. He had no [Dangersense], but he put up his hands slowly.
Yerelia had a simple megaphone. She shouted into it.
“Adventurers! If you keep fighting near our camp, we will kill you. Take it elsewhere.”
Four Gold-rankers and a Named-ranker looked at each other. They eyed the Mad Ones. Colth slowly raised his hands, and Itkisa took her free hand out of her bag of holding. She raised her hands as well as Ceria muttered.
“Okay, maybe we should have bought their stuff. But that wasn’t for sale! You gonna fight when we go for round two? Colth and I can’t take her out alone, Pisces.”
“I’m not killing her.”
She stared at him as the Mad Ones made vague shooing motions. Some were shouting at the adventurers to drop some gold before they left. Ceria exhaled a plume of frost.
“Listen, Pisces, we have to work together.”
“She’s not a monster.”
They stared at each other as Itkisa walked over to grab her club. Ceria felt at her head and grimaced as she pulled the circlet off. She dusted her robes off, and they saw Colth levering the unconscious Yvlon up. Awkwardly, Pisces walked away from the Mad Ones’ camp after dropping a few hundred gold pieces onto the sand; no one else had done that. Ceria vanished, and Colth was moving towards the magical carriage.
He stuffed Yvlon into it, and Pisces found himself walking next to Itkisa. She glanced at him as he hesitated. But both peered at the Mad Ones’ camp—
“Further away! At least a mile!”
Neither he nor Itkisa were willing to break the treaty, so she nodded at him.
“Your choice, Adventurer Pisces.”
“To do what, fight to the death? If the three of us battle you, it won’t be bloodless even if you win.”
“Or your team could fall back and ride away in the carriage. I am here for the glory of chasing the Horns away, as I was employed to do.”
“What? You want us to flee?”
She smiled at him as she rubbed at her bleeding cheek.
“It would advantage you, with your warrior gone. And it benefits me greatly. Somehow, though—”
Her eyes flicked to Colth, who had turned from the carriage to favor her with a sinister smile. Then she stared at an empty patch of air to the side.
“—I doubt your teammates will be so reasonable.”
Ceria re-materialized with a curse. She could cast [Invisibility]? Pisces stared at her as she called over her shoulder.
“She’s aura-sensing, Colth. Either that or a tremorsense. Pisces, get over here before she takes you hostage.”
“I’m negotiating. We could fall back, Ceria.”
“Fall back? It’s three versus one, and she’s no Torreb.”
That made Itkisa twitch. Her eyes narrowed at Ceria, and Pisces actually put an arm out to block her. He stared at his offending arm. So did she. Then Pisces addressed Itkisa.
“Did you have to attack us to begin with? To my knowledge, we have never quarrelled, Itkisa. I was actually hoping to talk civilly; you met Orjin of Pomle, and your father was a famous adventurer. I would hate to maim or kill each other.”
A flicker of guilt crossed Itkisa’s face. She brushed at her black hair that she’d tied back in a ponytail, then shook her head.
“It is hard to be Torreb’s child. I am grabbing for what you have plenty of, Adventurer Pisces. Fame must truly taste like water to you if you don’t see how much circles you. Perhaps I was too hasty to judge you. For all they call you the Bane of Roshal. Or Scourge. Which is it?”
“Neither. I’ve barely killed any [Slavers]. I…I think someone is using my face.”
She regarded him as they walked away from the Mad Ones’ camp. Ceria and Colth were following to their right and left, clearly communicating as they eyed Itkisa and counted their distance from the camp. But the woman just smiled at Pisces.
“Titles are not things we choose, Pisces. I am Itkisa, Torreb’s Daughter. The Scourge of Roshal is a fine title, to my mind. If you feel it is undeserving, or wish to rise to it, prove it. But I do not think a boring pretender would draw blade on the King of Destruction.”
He blinked down at her; he was taller than she was. But she had seemed like she was towering over him a moment ago. Pisces came to a halt in the dirt, and she gripped the club tighter at once.
“We are not a mile from the Mad Ones’ camp, and I think if anyone could measure, it would be them.”
“I am not going to fight you, Itkisa. I would prefer we part without violence.”
He crossed his arms, sheathing the rapier at his side. She eyed him as Ceria and Colth halted. Itkisa pursed her lips and dug one foot into the earth with ease. She peered down at her sandals; she’d ripped the toe off the one she’d been using to kick dirt at Colth and Ceria.
She must wear out clothing and gear with how strong she is. No wonder she wanted gold and fame if she couldn’t afford it yet. Itkisa glanced up at Pisces.
“If you were to retreat for the sake of my reputation—”
“Hell no! Pisces, we’ll just kneecap her! Get over here!”
Colth shouted. Pisces scowled at him. Itkisa sighed.
“If we agreed on terms—”
Then she pivoted at the same time as Pisces leapt back from her. Itkisa raised her club, then sighed and lowered it. Ceria waved her arms frantically, shouting.
“We’re too close to the Mad Ones! Stop, stop—oh hey, that’s our side. Or not—hells!”
She went skating away, but belatedly—something hit her, and she tangled in it, cursing. Pisces saw the net covering the Ice Squirrel, and Itkisa lifted a club and blocked another thrown at her. But there were more, and ropes were flying from…
Chariots? One missed Pisces, and he began [Flash Stepping] away. He remembered the war in Pomle—and these were the same damn chariots! He saw Silk [Chariot Riders], whooping as they shot forwards. Carrying the flags of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and shouting…
“All will put down their blades! In the name of Queen Yisame—you are all under the authority of the crown! Do not resist, Torreb’s Daughter, Horns of Hammerad!”
They tried to net Itkisa again, but she swung her club and sent the nets flying. However, she did halt as more drew flaming arrows and aimed at her. They were trying to net Colth as well—he was dodging back towards the carriage. The lead [Rider] screamed.
“Her Majesty’s wrath on any adventurer who fights us! You are to be escorted back to the capital—now! Cease fighting, all of you! Where are…?”
Itkisa had lowered her club, though she kept tearing nets off her. She was sighing, and the chariot riders were circling the adventurers.
Nets. They didn’t look like much but when they landed on her, Itkisa growled, and had to rip at the bright, colorful threads. She heaved—and nearly ripped her own skin off as she cursed.
“What the—”
They were tough! Little stones made of jade carved with runes were attached to the nets to weigh them down, and each one was sewn out of some kind of magical thread. Tearing one apart took a lot of her strength, and she wasn’t the only one.
Colth had slashed two in midair only to find his blades barely cut the thread as well. And when you were caught—
“Hells, it’s anti-magic!”
Ceria was trying to cast a spell, but she was covered partially by two, and she wasn’t able to even cast [Ice Spike]. She was wriggling, though, trying to get out from under—
“By Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you will obey! Hoist the Banner of the Dark Queen!”
The charioteers saw the three Gold-rankers bristling, and one of them unfurled something. A black standard caught the air, and Itkisa gazed up—
A flash of darkness fell over the world. A fell wind blew; the carrion-eaters were pecking at the dead. A fortress loomed, and from it, bones littered the ground. Itkisa felt her chest heaving with panic. She stumbled back—
Fell to a knee—
The woman blinked and pushed herself up. This time, the effort cracked the earth, and not from the weight of more nets. The standard blowing in the wind was physical force. It flattened everything around the charioteers, who were immune. She rasped.
“That’s the standard of the Immortal Tyrant!”
She recognized it. Her father had told her about this when he had inspired her with tales of adventure. One of the proscribed relics of the old era. It had utterly flattened Ceria Springwalker; the half-Elf was lying spread-eagled on the ground, trying to breathe. Itkisa could stand only because of her strength. And Colthei…
He had been crawling towards the carriage with Yvlon Byres in it, but the [Charioteers] had already secured it. One had swung a spear, delicately, and sheared the door clean off. It was screaming about ‘property damage to Wistram’ as they emerged, carrying the Silver Killer, who was still unconscious.
That spear cut Wistram’s magic like it was butter. Itkisa had watched Archmage Valeterisa duelling Archmage Amerys, and the Drake [Spearmaster]’s weapon that Amerys had shattered was not so fine.
This was a full Nerrhavia’s Fallen Silk detachment. Wealth beyond measure. All for the Horns? She gritted her teeth, but then raised her hand as well. There was no mistaking that standard.
Colth had put up his hands as well, scowling. The duo who had gotten to the carriage shouted at their leader.
“We have the Silver Killer! She’s asleep!”
That was a huge relief; the Stitch-woman in charge wiped her forehead. Unpredictable adventurers…she counted.
“That leaves the Ice Squirrel and Scourge. Damn, they’ve vanished. [See Invisibility]!”
She raised a feathered mask shaped like an owl to her face that she’d brought for just this purpose and peered around. It took a second before she saw a crouching half-Elf trying to scuttle into the Mad Ones’ camp.
“There!”
Ceria reappeared and swore before half a dozen nets hit her. The chariot leader rubbed at her neck; it had been a long ride in the damn heat for this.
“Horns of Hammerad, Adventurer Itkisa, we are on the Queen’s mission! Do not resist, I ask it in sanity’s name. Who else? Do we pick up Wildcard?”
She consulted her list. The [Queen]’s words had been to return the Horns and any adventurer team brawling with them. The other Gold-rank team wasn’t here, so the [Chariot Leader] decided to leave them off the list. A subordinate riding in her chariot leaned over as they aimed a flaming arrow at Itkisa.
“What of the Heromakers with the Horns?”
“Bah. They’ll follow as their kind does. Alright…where’s the Scourge?”
She’d been searching around for Pisces, and a few of the other chariots had produced their own anti-invisibility artifacts. Your casual [Invisibility] spell did not work on the Chariots of Tussah, who were an all-Silk group that had more gold than one could dream of.
Not that they wanted to tangle with the Horns or Torreb’s daughter. The [Chariot Leader] was hoping the Scourge of Roshal didn’t know about her family’s [Slaves]—surely, he was a reasonable man and less prone to violence than the Silver Killer, who ate ears like one ate dates?
He was still a Gold-rank adventurer, and they numbered over two hundred across fifty chariots. No ordinary team could face that many, and no [Mage] escaped their eyes.
…So where was he? The woman peered around, then snapped.
“He can’t have gone far. Anti-illusion magic. Is this artifact dead?”
The chariots split up, circling the area. Some Stitch-folk even leapt down to search on the ground. They would have entered the Mad Ones’ camp, but the insane lot appeared, and they were armed—the remaining Horns and Itkisa were shepherded towards the magical carriage. Then Itkisa was given a separate one for fear of violence.
After twenty minutes, the charioteers were stumped. And the adventurers were getting more antsy, as were the Mad Ones. Fearful of more violence, they decided to head back towards the capital. But the irate [Queen]’s representatives echoed the same question the charioteers were asking themselves.
How did you manage to lose one of the Horns of Hammerad? Everyone knew Adventurer Pisces could cast lower-level illusions and [Invisibility], so the Chariots of Tussah had brought plenty of artifacts to locate him. But he was—gone.
Did he know a magic unknown to them? The Mad Ones swore they were not harboring him. The embarrassed [Chariot Leader] rode back the long road to Nerrhavia’s Fallen capital, sweating and cursing adventurers in general. All this for the Queen’s favorites. Well, she did get an autograph from the Ice Squirrel, which cheered her up. But she wondered where Adventurer Pisces had gone.
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
I have been defeated. Routed. Demolished in the marketplace of ideas. I did an AMA for r/Fantasy to celebrate the book launch the other day, and I didn’t answer all the questions.
To be precise, I apparently answered 494 over the course of eleven hours, with breaks. I tried, but they kept coming. Turns out bigger subreddits and more people asking questions has defeated my winning streak. Now it’s 2-1.
Anyways, if you’d like to check them out there were some lore questions! I’ve gotten better at answering AMAs, so I didn’t reply with ‘read and find out’ most of the time. But all of this was to celebrate the book launch and…
It’s here. People have been posting images of them getting the book or for the book bingo—you know there’s another bingo game we’re playing, right? It’s amazing to see in stores, and I went out myself to see one; there it was, next to a book from Ursula Le Guin. I saw Dungeon Crawler Carl and other web serials next to books like Terry Pratchett, and it was an amazing experience.
I will write a blog post with more thoughts, but thank you for being part of the journey, and if you want to help, asking a library to stock the book or leaving a review is very helpful! I am tired, though. Very tired; I fell asleep six hours early the other day. Probably from all that AMA writing and book signing.
So this chapter is ‘short’—it’s the target length I used to try for years ago. I’ll keep chapters shorter, with apologies, because I am both tired and I’ve run down my backlog to zero for the book launch. But I’m gonna continue to write. I’ll just take a second now and then to crack open The Wandering Inn and see if I’ve forgotten anything. Thanks for reading,
—pirateaba
 
PS: Today we are just featuring art that was tagged on social media! As well as an amazing creation by SpookyOwl, a reader who made a terrarium of The Wandering Inn! Look at the tiny figures and give them a like!
 
 
The Wandering Inn Terrarium by SpookyOwl!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/spookyspookyowl


Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social


Linktree: https://linktr.ee/spookyowlart

Terrarium Showcase: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social/post/3msu3apgpyk2a

10.74 H (2026-08-23)

Pisces to Ceria: Are we hiding or securing Yvlon and fleeing?
Pisces to Ceria: Hello? Do you need a distraction?
Pisces to Ceria: I can’t tell what’s going on. I presume you’ve all vanished; I can hear them searching around me.
Pisces to Ceria: Reducing spellcasting in case they’re using [Detect Magic].
Pisces to Ceria: I think they’re gone. Where are you?
Ceria to Pisces: Hey, you’re a genius, idiot. They got all of us. How the heck did you escape? Will be out of range soon—head back to Tyrant’s Rest.
Pisces to Ceria: Clarification?
 
He never received a response. Which made him think their personal, secret communication spell from Wistram was out of range. Pisces eventually did emerge from his hiding place. He sat up with a gasp, and the sand covering him fell away.
Quite a lot of it, actually. He’d buried himself in the sand to avoid them spotting him. He had it in his hair, in his robes.
“What do you mean they got you all?”
He’d assumed they were hiding in case it wasn’t Yisame’s people after all. Or just because they didn’t want to obey—Pisces looked around and saw the Mad Ones’ camp in the distance. No chariots.
No magical Wistram carriage.
Nothing.
“…Tree rot.”
It sounded awkward when he said it. He got up, shaking sand out of his robes, and stood.
How did he escape the charioteers when Colth and Ceria failed to? Well, he knew how he’d done it, but he’d assumed Colth with his nigh-infinite Skills and Ceria’s magic…Pisces felt his stomach sink.
Now he had to go back by himself? He’d been so sure—
He rubbed at his face. Once again, it seemed to him that his team was out-of-sync with each other. He’d just assumed…
Here was the trick. As Pisces gloomily began walking back to the Mad Ones’ camp, he did congratulate himself on his new levels of artifice. He, Ceria, and Colth all had access to some form of [Invisibility], clearly. But the charioteers had been ready for them, and Pisces had known the instant that mask appeared they’d see him.
He was hardly a strong illusionist, so he couldn’t disguise himself with magic that way. Which left another trick: burying oneself in the sand. Classic to Chandrar, he’d read.
However, any fool could intuit that. The [Charioteers] weren’t stupid. They’d begun casting [Detect Life] spells—even [Detect Death] once they’d realized he was hiding. Pisces, covered in the sand as they rolled around him, had panicked, then come up with an interesting idea.
He was a [Necromancer]. He’d show up on a [Detect Life] spell, but what if he projected death magic such that he looked a bit more dead than usual? Not enough to register as undead, but just enough to ‘cloak’ his signature.
It had been a fun challenge to balance his magical essence, and he’d assumed Ceria’s circlet would do that for her, and Colth would use his helm. Then they’d link up, get Yvlon once she woke up, and…
…And it turned out he’d been way too clever. Pisces scuffed at the dirt.
“Do I rent a Wistram carriage? Maybe the Heromakers of Hraace can help me. What is ailing Yvlon?”
She’d just keeled over in battle. And she’d been yawning all day…
Ever since that kiss in the parade. Colth had said that. But he’d also ruled out poison at that instant, so what…?
A lot of questions, and not a lot of answers. However, Pisces did at least make it to the Mad Ones’ camp, and they didn’t murder him.
Indeed, some of the Mad Ones were trying to invent new shovels or ways to repair the wall. When they saw him, a few jumped.
“Dead gods, where were you? We were searching with the charioteers, and no one found you, Adventurer!”
That did cheer Pisces up a bit. He sniffed, sneezed because he had sand in his nose, and coughed.
“I appear to have done my job, ah, too well. They’ve all left, haven’t they?”
“A good thirty minutes ago. Hold on, let me get Yerelia—”
 
——
 
The Mad One was hugely amused to see Pisces. When he told her how he’d evaded them, she laughed.
“How inventive! That makes me want to look into spells that could deal with this unique case. You’re on par with a Level 30 [Rogue]; fools upon the Silks for thinking they could bring a few artifacts to catch you. Well—unless you want to buy anything, we’ll call it even. You paid us enough for the food and dropped enough gold to make up for the wall. I’m glad I didn’t kill you all with that round. Did you like how it spread out?”
“It was utterly terrifying, Inventor Yerelia. May I apologize for my, ah, team?”
She eyed him as she stopped laughing.
“Now I know you’re no Chandrarian adventurer. That sort of thing is part and parcel around here. Adventurers brawl and kill each other; now I’m glad I didn’t fire a second shot. Be on your way, then.”
No ill will nor questions. Pisces hesitated. He cast around.
“Er…thank you.”
Did he just go back to the city or something? He awkwardly walked off as the sand blew around him. This was so uncomfortable.
He hadn’t been by himself for a while. This was the first time he’d been alone since coming to Chandrar, really. Certainly in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
It felt odd. And guiltily, Pisces realized—a bit freeing.
 
——
 
Too freeing, Pisces knew, when he got to the mansion where he and the Horns had been staying. When he entered, he nearly scared a team of Cotton-folk [Cleaners] to death. They stammered that his entourage had left twenty minutes ago. He realized the Heromakers of Hraace were gone too.
Delitandra and the others had heard the Horns were going back to the capital and done the obvious thing. He groaned.
Alone.
It wasn’t like he was unused to the feeling. He had been alone for years after Wistram, and before that as well. But of late…Pisces had to think back to the Horns’ last few adventures.
Ever since Chandrar, they’d been together. Even if he’d gone out by himself, the team had been, well, a team. From going south to the Meeting of Tribes to the Crossroads, they’d stuck by each others’ sides. Colth had joined them and until the battle at sea…
Even after, he’d been in Colth’s company. Or if they’d been split up like at Jecrass, he’d been talking with Jecaina. The closest to alone he’d gotten was, what, being in Hraace and sitting in a pool with Nawalishifra?
Or the five minutes he’d followed the coliseum master while Yvlon was fighting? Truly, Pisces hadn’t been by himself for ages. He wished he didn’t feel like it was a relief.
“But why is it a relief, per se?”
The [Necromancer] went for a walk in the city, which was named Halqued, apparently. Funny, he hadn’t even known where the Mad Ones lived by name. That was how fast his team had zoomed across Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
True, they were busy. But would it kill them to at least stop and appreciate the local cuisine or customs? Pisces Jealnet was the sort of fellow who would make it a point to stop at every museum in a city he came across. Of course, his team was not that sort; Yvlon did it out of obligation, but only Ksmvr really appreciated history. Ceria and Colth were more the types to hit up the local market or go out and see the nightlife…he had no idea what Vofea was like.
Which was fine. Pisces could enjoy himself plenty at a restaurant, and he imagined Ceria would be a hoot, perhaps even a holler, in any museum. She could appreciate such things.
Funny. He just couldn’t imagine it all working out right now. Because, as he had observed, his team was fractured. Their teamwork was shot, and it was…
“It’s not all because of Ksmvr, is it?”
The young man stood in the local museum of Halqued, inspecting, well, pottery and old relics as the Stitch-folk eyed him. He knew he stood out because of his dusty robes, his fair skin, and probably the rapier on his side. He couldn’t help it; he had no place to change clothes, and Elena wasn’t around to put on makeup.
Pisces half-concentrated on the displays, which were fascinating. But he was just thinking to himself.
Maybe they were laying too much of the blame on Ksmvr not being here. Maybe…even if the Antinium were here, they’d still be like this. In which case, better that Ksmvr weren’t here because he’d be worrying himself sick.
Nor was it all Ceria’s fault. True, she was one of the issues with the circlet, but Colth was being sort of, well, an adventurer. The kind that existed at The Adventurer’s Haven, not The Wandering Inn. Yvlon was Yvlon—Pisces felt like he and she were on the same page.
He hoped she was okay. What had happened to her? He bent over a faded bit of pottery where little figures made of different pieces of cloth were joining hands. Not the most…intricate of designs. An amateur potter’s work, but fascinating.
At least, he thought so. The museum was fairly empty, and it wasn’t a rich place; no enchantments on the cases or cooling runes in the air. But authentic pottery from ages past! Museums weren’t big in Izril; you tended to get less memorabilia because Drakes would use anything worthwhile or hoarded the rest. But Chandrar was known as one of the ‘oldest’ continents because of all the buried kingdoms. Arid climates preserved things wonderfully, you see.
However, some people had no taste. Pisces heard a loud, and slightly exasperated, voice down the hallway.
“Look, I love pottery—no, I’m lying. I don’t love pottery. I’d rather use a chamberpot than look at this stuff for another hour. Can we go?”
Pisces closed his eyes. He could just imagine Ceria saying that or trying to use one of these pots for said purpose. Was it her new [Trickster] class? Was she that much less like the Ceria he had met after so long?
Yes and no. She’d gotten crazier. Had fame done that? Their travels? Was he different? He gazed at his reflection in the glass and thought he looked the same. But he had a brand on his chest. He had been a [Slave]…he carried a rapier again. He was an adventurer, not a lost [Necromancer].
Yes, I am different. In mostly better ways, I hope. Pisces thought of Erin. He wondered if she would be proud of his latest adventurers. He hoped she was alright. Wherever she was. The imposter in Baleros…
His hand was gripping his rapier’s hilt. Pisces let go as a wide-eyed Stitch-girl hurried past him, staring at her. He smiled; she began to run.
I am an armed stranger in these lands with a reputation for being a murderer. I should be more discreet. Can I buy some skin-paint and…no, that’s a terrible idea without Elena. But maybe some different clothing? 
He could dye his hair? Pisces had an image of Lyonette going around with black hair and snorted, then sighed. He doubted it would work on Stitch-folk given how adept they were at changing appearances. Then he heard the second voice.
“I vote to leave. My feet hurt, and I have [Lightfoot].”
A third, impatient voice argued with the two male ones.
“We agreed to do my thing today!”
“It’s been two hours, Lare.”
“But it’s so fascinating—how can you not see it?”
“It’s pottery.”
“Broken pottery. Listen, what if Kusal and I just met up with you later? Lare, c’mon—”
“Shit, she’s getting mad, Leo.”
“No, I’m not. I’m just upset you’re changing the rules we agreed to.”
“C’mon, Lare—”
A trio of Humans were coming down the corridor. Pisces, by now, had identified them by their names. He was unlikely to forget them so soon. He debated leaving—but he didn’t need to fight the trio of adventurers, did he?
Wildcard, the Gold-ranked team of Earthers, halted when they saw the young man standing there. Instantly, Leonardo reached for his tennis racket, and Kusal pivoted.
“Pukka, it’s them—”
“Hold on, hold on, we’re not fighting!”
Leonardo put out an arm, and the third member of their team, Lareceina the [Mage], put a hand to her belt. Where she kept the glowing orbs…Pisces held up a hand.
“I’m by myself, and we’re not adventuring. Truce?”
He maybe shouldn’t have said he was alone, but it worked. Wildcard relaxed, and Leo nodded.
“Truce. Hey—did your team go fighting the Mad Ones or something north of here? Everyone was talking about it.”
News spread fast. Pisces grimaced.
“It was Itkisa, though the Mad Ones did participate.”
“Torreb’s daughter? Wow, your team fights nonstop.”
The slightly accented common came from Kusal, their [Rogue]. He glanced at Lareceina, who was glowering and looking around. Likely for Ceria. The Horns had not left a good impression. Pisces exhaled.
“We would prefer not to. I, ah, apologize for my teammate’s actions earlier today, Adventurer Lareceina.”
“You didn’t harass me. I accept on behalf of your team, not Ceria Springwalker.”
Lareceina folded her arms and instantly got a nudge from Kusal and Leonardo. She glared at them harder.
“What? I accepted his apology.”
Her captain sighed at her.
“C’mon, Lare, play nice—sorry, Pisces. She’s, uh, stubborn. No harm, no foul. Sorry about the Tomb—it was a quest for both sides.”
He shifted from sandaled foot to foot warily, but Pisces waved this off too.
“We didn’t realize there was a group with an actual claim on the Tomb. If we had known, I doubt my team would have taken the contract. I would have objected to robbing the Hemp of their ancestral spirits. I assume they did receive the summons?”
Again, Wildcard seemed surprised by his response, and Lareceina raised her brows as Kusal nodded.
“We got them to the Hemp. Did you get in trouble for not doing your job?”
“Not to any great degree. We’ll see. I simply appreciate that no one was hurt badly. The same with Itkisa. She is a rather…fearsome woman.”
“Is she strong? Everyone says she’s strong.”
Pisces found himself standing with the Gold-rankers in the now-empty corridor. He indicated his sorry state of apparel.
“She was strong enough to break a wall with a single swing, and her method of attack was swinging her club—or just kicking the ground hard enough to make it explode.”
The Earthers had a fine appreciation of how strong that was. Kusal began nudging Leonardo.
“Told you. She’s one of your, uh, what’s it called? Dragonball people.”
“Saiyans. Shut up, Kusal.”
“All we have to do is find a magical girl too, like the transforming Gnoll. For Justine.”
A grin from the [Rogue], then it faltered, and all three of them glanced down, and Pisces was reminded. He coughed.
“Ah. That would be the teammate of yours who passed away?”
“We fought an Adult Creler, yeah. Just last month.”
“My condolences. I’m…very sorry to hear that. I also lost friends fighting an Adult Creler.”
They blinked at him, and it was like a strange connection. Lareceina stopped fiddling with her belt and focused on him. Leonardo’s head rose.
“That’s right, you’re also Hell’s Wardens. You—was it one Adult Creler, or more?”
“Just one. Though one is…too much. And thousands of small ones.”
“Thousands? How did you survive? We barely had sixty, and they—it—the entire village was nearly wiped out.”
Kusal stared at Pisces, so the [Necromancer] had to clarify.
“There were over a dozen Silver-ranking teams present. My team was one of many, and we all nearly died. It was luck we managed to defeat it—we even had [Mages] from Wistram, and we barely won. Barely. How did you…?”
A pause, but the words spilled out of Lareceina as she fiddled with her belt. She had those compressed marbles of mana, Pisces realized, and she was rotating them around in her fingers. Playing with them like, well, marbles. He glanced at them as she spoke.
“It was immune to my magic. Leonardo and Justine engaged it while I killed the smaller Crelers. She—cracked the armor, and Kusal delivered the final blow. But it got her. Even with her Skills, it bit her almost in half, and there was no healing her. If I’d known more magic…”
Tears in her eyes. She blinked them away, and Kusal squeezed her shoulder. Leonardo stared at his feet, and Pisces’ own eyes stung a bit.
“I’m sorry. I saw many good adventurers die. Captain Stan, friends—it was a close run thing with my team as well. My magic was useless. Even a fine [Mage] couldn’t even harm it with his best spells.”
It was easier to say that after Isceil was dead. Leonardo smiled, then held out a hand.
“Well, one less Adult Creler in the world is a good thing. Can we be friends? Or at least, not enemies?”
“Of course.”
Pisces shook his hand and got a firm grip. He then shook Kusal’s and got a cautious one; Lare’s was like a wet noodle, and she let go fast. Each member of Wildcard was different.
Leonardo had the palest skin, and Kusal was—Drathian would have been Pisces’ guess, or Balerosian. Darker skinned, but different from Chandrarian natives, he felt. His accent was like none that Pisces had ever heard, and Lareceina was black-skinned and shortest. Leonardo was taller than Pisces and Kusal shorter and slimmest of the lot.
[Warrior], [Mage], [Rogue]. But an odd variant on the archetype if that made sense.
For instance, Leonardo had that tennis racket on his hip, and his armor—sporty cloth—was far too light compared to Yvlon’s. Kusal was armored heavier with metal incorporated into leather and lots of pockets built into his armor, containing gadgets like the strange weapon he’d used on Yvlon.
Lareceina wore a long-sleeved tunic and skirt with a twist; Pisces glanced down and realized there was metal underneath her skirt. An armored skirt? He’d never seen the like.
Their gear was substantially worse than his team’s, at least by the quality of Stalker’s armor. Nevertheless, he knew their levels were at least competitive with his team’s, and he could tell they were eying him too; Lareceina pointed.
“That rapier. It’s magic, but it’s not enchanted. May I see it?”
“Of course. Er—”
Pisces looked around, but the [Curator] of the museum had fled. No one else was near, so he showed them his bone-metal rapier. Leonardo exclaimed over it.
“That’s so cool.”
“Heavy metal.”
Kusal agreed. Lareceina just frowned.
“It’s the ivory that was fused to the steel. There’s trace magic in it probably because it’s bone you used, but it’s not enchanted. An ordinary rapier would be just as good, or better.”
“Lare, be nice!”
Another nudge. This time, she jabbed Leonardo in the side with two fingers so hard he yelped. Pisces wasn’t offended though.
“That’s entirely true, Miss Lareceina. It was improvised after I broke it in battle—I could very well upgrade it. I just haven’t found a good replacement.”
Rapiers were not exactly big in Chandrar, so the market for enchanted rapiers wasn’t high. Plus, he liked this weapon. Lareceina nodded, unsmiling.
“Don’t call me Miss, please. Lareceina is fine.”
“I’m sorry about her.”
Leonardo whispered and got another poke. Pisces smiled.
“I’m not offended, Captain. Did I hear you talking about—what was that word? Saiyans? Dragon’s…balls?”
This time, the man flushed so red it went up to his ears, and Kusal and Lareceina cackled at his expense.
“That’s, uh, a story. Just a story—Justine loved transforming heroes. Magical girls. Which is, um—it’s when someone has a weapon and transforms. There’s this Named-ranker who does it!”
“You mean Lehra Ruinstrider? I have met her, and she does do that.”
“She does?”
Instantly the other two Wildcards stopped laughing, and Pisces described the iconic Lehra.
“So she has to say that each time? That’s hilariously stupid.”
Kusal laughed, and Leonardo’s eyes lit up.
“Just like home.”
Here was the moment Pisces had waited for. He glanced at the three members of Wildcard and coughed.
“Ah, which nation would that be? I presume you are all from different countries. Spain, perhaps? Er, Poland? Canada?”
He threw out the names he’d heard mentioned a few times, and he was rewarded with stunned looks. Kusal instantly backed up a step, face wary, but Lareceina interrupted.
“He knows about Earth. I told you his team knew. It was that [Innkeeper] who contacted us. Erin Solstice. They stay at her inn. It was obvious.”
She appeared so smug that Leonardo and Kusal lost their stunned expressions and rolled their eyes. Pisces? He smiled wider.
 
——
 
“I’m from Portugal, Kusal’s from Sri Lanka, and Lareceina’s from Trinidad. So was Justine. We all found each other in the first month we were in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“So you all, independently, became adventurers?”
Pisces had never heard other Earthers talk about their first days in this world. Leonardo smiled ruefully.
“Hardly. Lareceina found work in the Mage’s Guild. Kusal was scavenging for a living, and I got everyone’s attention by teaching people tennis and doing tricks. It’s a game from home, and it’s the only thing I can do. Justine was the adventurer who got us together.”
“He’s not just good at tennis, he was a champion back home.”
Lareceina interrupted, and Leo grew more embarrassed and waved a hand.
“I’m just a challengers champion. I won once by luck—”
“He’s one of the best in the world. Just not the top player. No one in this world can beat him.”
Pisces believed that, having met Erin who also ‘wasn’t the best’ and was able to play with Niers Astoragon himself regularly. He was telling them about his team, though they’d all apparently seen Ksmvr’s famous Chandrarian documentary. And they knew of the Horns from the Village of the Dead Raid. It was all very embarrassing, but this was convivial. Fun, even.
“I observed that in many Earthers, they tend to have a talent in one field or another. Does that hold true with you?”
Wildcard eyed each other, and Kusal raised a hand.
“I won an award for robotics. I made, eh, how do you say it?”
He whispered to the others and came up with the closest analogy for Pisces.
“Like making Golems that run on electricity. They fight to the death in this little arena, and mine was the best. I also made this.”
He pulled out the long tube-like device he’d hit Yvlon with and hit a button. The zap of electricity made Pisces recoil, and Leo swore.
“That’s a stun gun. Don’t touch the ends!”
“What does it do?”
“Zap people. Kusal had one on him, and he altered it.”
Kusal let Pisces examine it; it was a weird casing of some substance he called ‘plastic’ that had been taken apart then melted back together. The [Rogue of Tricks] had even added a telescoping handle of wood painted black.
“I had two. This is my Double Stun Gun. It has all the safeties taken off, and it can stop even a Manticore. I don’t know how the Silver Killer didn’t fall over when I hit her with it. I even have [Electronics: Triple Charge] and more Skills!”
His class had apparently advanced to let him perform all kinds of weird attacks. Ksmvr would have loved Kusal; the young man was able to carry two bags of holding, and one was filled with stuff to toss at an enemy.
Including just…a twelve hundred-pound piece of stone. A true boulder that only Kushal’s Skills let his bag of holding carry. He solemnly patted it.
“That’s how we killed the Adult Creler. I had to get Lareceina to boost me, and I just hit it with this.”
Dead gods, they might have been lucky not to fight him in the open. Leo’s weapon of choice made more sense to Pisces; the tennis racket was upgraded as well, but his entire ability revolved around the sport he played.
“I can block arrows with this and reflect almost anything as long as I’m strong enough. It’s pretty silly in combat, but we have that combination Skill.”
“The one where you hurl those orbs at us? It was very potent.”
The captain was pleased and ducked his head.
“Well, we had to work on a really good team attack together or we’d have been dead when we took on our first dungeon way back when. Justine used to be part of it…what’s your team attack?”
He changed subjects hurriedly as their fallen teammate kept popping up, but Pisces hesitated.
“Us? We don’t, ah, have one. We tend to just attack.”
It had never occurred to him to practice some kind of combination attack, but that was twice now a foe had needed one; first Bograms, then the Coliseum of Monarchs. Leo hesitated, but Lareceina broke in.
“I’m a [Magus of Compression]. You’re a [Mage] who studied at Wistram, correct? Will you discuss magic with me? I haven’t had a proper education; I’m self-taught. I’d like to, if we’re being friendly. I still dislike your Captain, Ceria, and I think breaking into the Coliseum of Monarchs was dangerous and against Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s laws.”
She was quite insistent on that point. Leo winced, but Pisces had really wanted to ask about her magic. She offered him one of the marbles she’d used to such deadly effect. He gingerly, gingerly took it.
“This is…just compressed mana after all?”
It was an insane technique. Lareceina built up mana, then gave it an element and put it in the orbs she carried on her belt and in a small sack. He could imagine doing it, and there was some genius to it; she could store mana instead of having only what was in her mana well in a fight.
It was also highly potent as he’d learned, and she could use it in all kinds of tricks like traps or letting Leonardo hit the marbles at a foe. Except Pisces had to point out two things.
“If the compression spell failed in any way, it would explode, and if all the ones on your belt detonated—”
The museum would be gone. His skin itched just being near her. And he wondered how good those compression spells were.
From the way Leonardo and Kusal shifted, they were aware of this fact and uneasy themselves, but Lareceina simply frowned.
“I’m aware of that. I’ve altered the compression spells so they just vent magic if they’re damaged. The possibility of explosion remains, but my class gave me Skills to mitigate the risk and compress more mana.”
“There’s still a risk that someone like Ceria could remotely dispel the bindings.”
“Maybe. That’s why I want consultation on how to prevent that.”
“Of course, I think I know some of that—it’s akin to tying a knot on a spell. But, ah, may I ask how you’re doing it?”
It was still crazy magic to Pisces. Because…none of this was a spell. It was literally just mana-shaping, and it reminded him of the Mad Ones’ camp. Lareceina’s answer was to sigh.
“I had to teach myself magic. I had no spellbooks, and the Mage’s Guild only taught me basic spells to help out, so I experimented with mana flows. I was told it was stupid and that spells were the only acceptable way to cast magic. Do you agree with that?”
“I would be a fool to ascribe to that philosophy. Many [Mages] are hidebound—this would never have been accepted at Wistram, but it clearly works. I just…”
Pisces could imagine making a mana orb of death magic. He gave it a try now and condensed the mana around a finger. He could easily do that, and Kusal shivered and moved back from the odd, clammy feeling around Pisces. Death magic wasn’t cold—it just felt that way because your body started to stop working around it. But Pisces only managed a vague orb of death.
Nothing compressed. Let alone binding it…he began to sweat as Lareceina nodded.
“That’s how you do it. My first orbs were Tier 0 in force. You simply lock it into place after that. You can hold it, but it’s a strain…you have to create a containment sphere around it in your head.”
“I…understand. But it’s so damned finicky!”
Magic did not want to compress. It wanted to go to natural sources of itself. Like how death mana concentrated around dead bodies. It was not happy about just existing in a cheerful orb. Lareceina nodded.
“My orbs deplete. I have a Skill—[Mana: Reduced Drain], but I still need to upkeep them. Actually, until recently I spent a lot of mana upkeeping them, but it’s worth the effort. There. Now, just close the circuit. See?”
She demonstrated and compressed fire magic in on itself, and Pisces saw her locking it down, creating a perfect sphere by which it could not escape. The problem was—you had to mentally hold a sphere in your head and cut off each point it wanted to escape from. You had to also account for the variance in elemental types! Fire magic didn’t behave like, say, water magic. Ice magic would freeze over and become inert…
“Whoa, so this is really tough magic? Lare, how do you do all that?”
Leo and Kusal realized their companion was a bit more magically adept than they’d known as Pisces struggled to figure out her technique. She smiled.
“It’s my special power. Autism.”
Kusal spat out some water all over a display and laughed at her until she went to poke him again. Pisces just gave up on his death orb; it was going to take a lot of practice if he wanted to master this trick, and he was considering it.
“I’m not familiar with the word. What is this…?”
“It means my mental processes are wired a bit differently than normal. I sometimes overfocus on things. I don’t like being touched.”
“And she’s not a fan of breaking rules, which is why she hates your Captain. And because she rubbed Lare’s hair.”
Leo put in. Pisces scratched at his head.
“Intriguing. I’ve met a number of [Mages] who fit that descriptor.”
He wondered if Master Hedault qualified under that. Or Watch Captain Zevara given how much she was a stickler for rules…
“I take it this gives you some advantage in magic?”
Lareceina hesitated, then shook her head.
“Um, not really. It’s just a joke.”
Pisces decided not to press her because she looked a bit embarrassed, now. He nodded.
“I see. Then may I just ask how you came to this style of magic? It’s so novel, compressing mana.”
“Well, I just…experimented. When I saw a [Fireball], I wondered how it was cast since I didn’t know the spell. I learned, later, it was ‘woven flames’, but I thought I could make a version just based on compressing heat.”
“Ah, that’s actually an older style of [Fireball] that fell out of fashion. The modern spell is more explosive and harder to dispel or prematurely detonate.”
Lareceina’s eyes lit up.
“That’s what I was told! But I still thought it was worth a shot. If you could compress even just water into a thin jet, you’d create something that cuts through steel. I knew that, and the Siren of Savere does it. So when I started experimenting…”
They got to talking more as Leo and Kusal tried to keep up with the magical discourse. Pisces wondered if it was Lareceina’s background from Earth, but it was so refreshing. Lareceina didn’t understand any rules of magic–so she had tried anything she wanted and found what worked. She spoke like someone who might have written the Djinni’s spellbook. Magic without needing a spell for everything.
She really was self-taught, and Pisces knew he had been considered something of a genius for his magical acumen, but he really was astonished by her lack of grounding in any formal training. They were discussing magic and realized that a lot of advanced topics were a mystery to both of them.
“Linked magic is really hard. I keep trying since I can store different mana types in orbs, but I can’t make them work aside from elemental reactions.”
“I doubt any modern [Mage] except maybe Valeterisa or Eldavin could do the same. Ceria can, but it’s her circlet which enables the feat. It’s quite powerful—we do have a combined spell, actually. Frostmarrow Behemoth.”
“We saw that! It was awesome!”
Kusal loved the giant undead Frostmarrow Behemoth which he termed ‘heavy metal’, and Pisces was reminded that not all Earthers feared necromancy. Lareceina was insistent, though.
“I want to learn combination magic. Is that the term for it? Mixing elements and spells together. That’s how my spellcasting improves to the next level. There are many ways, clearly. That one is mine. Compression magic will only go so far. But if I create combined spells…”
“I am also trying to break through the ceiling of my magical studies. I have a spellbook, actually, which has some fascinating magical shaping tips…”
He was all set to even break out his Djinni spellbook, but to his perplexment, Lareceina turned.
“If you have time, I’d like to read it. However, I have thirty minutes left at the museum, and I’m not done looking around.”
“Oh come on.”
Leo and Kusal had already been dying to leave, and Lareceina’s insistence on finishing her museum tour instead of chatting with another Gold-ranker who knew other Earthers nearly made them drag her off. Unfortunately, she had an ally in none other than Pisces.
“I was fascinated by this museum myself. For such antiquities, it’s rather underfunded.”
“This is interesting to you?”
Kusal had a variety of electronics he’d altered, and he was opening one up to tune it; he had even made some primitive batteries with Lareceina’s help. He had zero interest in pottery, as did Leonardo. However, Pisces was only too happy to explain as an amateur historian.
“Yes, actually. This isn’t just pottery, but pottery that dates back to the Immortal Empire of Nerrhavia. Highly controversial in many places, but it does reflect a period of Stitch-folk power that even Nerrhavia’s Fallen couldn’t equal. And a different society. See how all the Stitch-folk here are represented equally? They aren’t based on the same Hemp, Cotton, Silk caste system. I was just reading a book on that, actually.”
One of the enduring ironies from the time of the Immortal Tyrant was that Stitch-folk had won freedom from her, but created a system where the most numerous cloth type was distinctly subservient to the rest. Not that Pisces was going to vouchsafe that anywhere Stitch-folk could hear…
Leonardo and Kusal grew more interested as Pisces pointed this out. The two Humans saw Pisces point out a map that even showed that this particular city had endured since the Immortal Tyrant’s era; many modern buildings were built on the foundations of old ones worn away.
“The reason such mundane pottery exists when magic itself wore out in the intervening periods is twofold. Firstly, magic would have been used until the items broke. Secondly, when magic fades, it does tend to damage what the enchantment was bound to. So you get some mundane, simple pieces of pottery that are the only relics of truly ancient eras.”
“Huh, that’s actually pretty interesting. Lare, why didn’t you say anything about that?”
Her expression was so utterly outraged when she turned that Leo and Kusal decided to beat a hasty retreat and find lunch. That left her and Pisces standing together in dead silence. A bit awkwardly now…Pisces wondered if Lareceina was potentially bad at conversation. She did break the silence abruptly.
“I maintain my position that we were in the right both morally and legally, despite the crown’s actions at the Tomb of Yad’thuv, Adventurer Pisces.”
“Er, Pisces will do, Lareceina. And I quite understand.”
She nodded, abruptly.
“I also don’t like the actions of Yvlon Byres or Ceria Springwalker. There are customs and rules in Nerrhavia’s Fallen your team ignores to their peril. You will provoke hostile responses, such as Yvlon has already encountered.”
That made Pisces turn.
“You know what happened to her?”
She hesitated.
“I…suspect she was poisoned or something was done to her when she was kissed in that parade. You didn’t see it, nor did anyone else, but the girl who kissed Yvlon went away, and some people helped her lie down. She appeared to fall asleep or pass out moments afterwards, and they spirited her away.”
Pisces really didn’t like that. He hoped Yisame’s people could help—and he coughed.
“I understand, Lareceina. Yvlon is a bit of a rulebreaker, but her friends had been improperly accused and were in mortal peril.”
She frowned at him.
“I wasn’t referring to that. I am going to be more precise: I objected to the killing of the Champion of Monarchs in cold blood after he surrendered. There is a cultural precedent for Yvlon Byres’ actions, especially if her friends were accused and she had been challenged as well. The murder was where your captain crossed the line.”
That was harder for Pisces to argue with. He closed his mouth hard. Ceria had murdered Lenxiol, and it was true he might have come back for vengeance…but they hadn’t discussed it. He wasn’t sure he could let Ceria just be besmirched by Lareceina without some pushback, so he replied after a moment, gently.
“This is fair. But my team also attacked [Slavers] of Roshal, unprovoked. And I am the famous Scourge of Roshal. Do you hold a grudge against me?”
The [Mage] went very still as she peered at an old illustration of the Immortal Tyrant’s city in her time, and then she turned. She spoke as she met Pisces’ eyes.
“My understanding is that you were illegally taken as a [Slave]. By that logic, all your actions were that of an innocent person held under false pretenses. There is no legal system in Chandrar that can hold Roshal to account; nothing you did was wrong.”
He felt relieved at that, but she took a hurried breath before he could reply and held up a finger urgently.
“Furthermore—there are some laws and cultural norms in Chandrar that go against universal rights and basic morality. Which I do not respect.”
She peered around, and he felt a curious emanation from her. A pulse—her way of scanning for detection spells? She leaned forwards and whispered to him in the empty corridor.
“But I am also aware of how dangerous and how far such an institution’s authority spreads. For the sake of my team, I do not interfere with such rules because we will not survive being made targets. You might. But I would be very careful how much you do and leave quickly if you go further.”
Lareceina whispered in his ear then stepped back abruptly. She went back to studying the illustration, and after a moment, Pisces saw the [Curator] peek at them then hurry off. He stood there and took her warning seriously. There it was again, that shadow he could sometimes ignore, but never forget was in this nation, in this continent.
Roshal.
“Have you ever thought about leaving Chandrar?”
She half-turned.
“Perhaps. But Justine died here. Our reputations are built here. We will see the world, but we have just reached Gold-rank. We are not ready. Your team proved that. Someday, I will go to Wistram, to the Walled Cities, to Rhir, and see it all. But not before I make sure I won’t lose my teammates. They’re all I have.”
She glanced back down at the displays. Pisces nodded to her.
“I understand that quite well.”
“Then we understand each other. Good. You do know I don’t hold you in contempt.”
“I believed that was the case, but thank you for clarifying.”
“Good.”
After a moment Lareceina looked up and added.
“I can never tell what people understand. Language is so imprecise; even when it seems like I’m speaking clearly, mistakes seem to occur. I wish you’d met Justine. She was our captain before she died. She should have survived.”
He didn’t know what to say to that. After a moment, Pisces fished around in his bag of holding and handed her a handkerchief so she could wipe her tears. It transpired that Lareceina didn’t trust anyone else’s handkerchiefs, which was very fair. And he did have to mention an unfortunate fact he’d learned about [Cleanse]…
But it was a good meeting to have, truly.
 
——
 
Pisces felt like it was worth being left behind just for that one meeting. Mending the bridge with Wildcard felt right. Moreover, the team was a highly interesting one who might be valuable allies.
Certainly, they seemed trustworthy and knew Nerrhavia’s Fallen a lot better than Pisces himself did. When Leo and Kusal came back with some skewers of meat, they even had news Pisces had wanted to find out.
“Oh, you’re a famous name on the borders. Not a month goes by without ‘the Scourge of Roshal’ striking a [Slaver] caravan. They don’t normally report strikes this far inland, but it happens. It’s sort of common knowledge that Roshal will call any attack an attack by you, but people say they’ve seen you.”
Pisces stopped chewing on the meat skewer outside the museum. He looked up sharply.
“Truly? I had wanted to, ah, investigate that.”
Lareceina’s face was utterly smooth and gave nothing away, but Kusal raised his brows.
“Well, if you go further east…there’s [Rebels] who free [Slaves]. But Roshal and Nerrhavia’s Fallen send hunting parties after them. Or even Djinni.”
“Against people?”
“They don’t do it against normal people, but [Bandits] and the like are free game. You, uh—we saw you taking down that caravan on the scrying orb. That was pretty m—”
Lareceina stomped on Kusal’s foot, and his eyes watered up as she turned to Pisces.
“Utterly lawless, which my team is against, Scourge. I trust you will behave yourself under the laws, unlike your team.”
He would have taken some offense to that—Leonardo frowned at Lareceina—but for the conversation they’d just had. Pisces smiled blandly at Lareceina.
“I would hate to make an enemy of Wildcard twice! Perhaps I’ll just collect locations…”
It wasn’t like he could set out that far even with a magical carriage. He’d have to get information on a few places, go to the capital, persuade the others to come all the way back…well, it would only be a day or two of that dratted carriage. Pisces sighed.
“Well, uh, we’re going to the Mad Ones’ camp to see if they have anything Kusal wants to buy. Do you want to come with us…?”
Pisces rather suspected he’d worn out his welcome there and said so, and Wildcard waved as they departed. He would have liked to talk more, but Pisces realized it was already midday—he’d need to charter a magical carriage.
 
——
 
If the Mage’s Guild even had one around here. Another issue that Pisces realized might be more of a problem, especially when he entered and was told there was none in fifty miles of the city.
“I’m terribly sorry, Adventurer, but between the one chartered for Adventurer Itkisa by order of the Crown and others in use—there is one reserved for the team of Wildcard, but we have no more.”
“May I request one from further abroad, then?”
“Absolutely, sir! Please inform the crown we are working to accommodate you at full speed, but it is a matter for the academy, not—”
The very nervous [Receptionist] quoted him as having to wait three hours and twelve minutes, which was reasonable, all things considered. Just…
Pisces wished he’d asked for the carriage before the museum because he’d just passed all the time he cared to, and now he was bored. He had even had lunch.
“Drat.”
He was only mildly put out by the situation. Pisces reflected that now would be a splendid time to read his book and do some studying in peace. He had to think on the last two engagements as well.
Even if I wasn’t fighting to kill, I did let down the others. Lareceina’s magic is quite useful. I doubt I could store death mana so easily, but perhaps…?
He was hunting around for a nice place to sit and read. Such places seemed to be attached to cafes though, and he didn’t see a lovely park, the kind of which he’d expect in Izrilian cities.
Oh, there was a fountain, a plaza—all too full of people who started to stare at the odd Izrilian Human or, worse, recognize him. Probably from Yvlon’s actions—or the Tomb of Yad’thuv—or his father being on television.
Even now, the man made Pisces’ life worse. But who should appear on the streets as Pisces was wandering than another familiar face!
“Adventurer Pisces?”
He blinked at the trio of Stitch-folk setting up their wagon and smiled.
“Trader…Hexata! Good to see you again. I trust you weren’t, ah, hurt by the fighting?”
She gave him a wide-eyed look.
“We saw you fighting Itkisa, then the Mad Ones firing at you. Truly, the actions of real Gold-rankers! I would not wish to take up your time—weren’t you carried back to Tyrant’s Rest?”
He had to explain his situation, and outmaneuvering the charioteers impressed Hexata more. Pisces felt bad about how Colth had rushed him off, but Hexata waved it all away.
“If you’d like to rest, Adventurer, may I offer my wagon for shade?”
She and her brothers had a little table and chair that Pisces thought would be splendid—and secluded—and he accepted, buying a snack of some sweet jerky to eat while he read.
…He was not a fan of sweet jerky. But he left it on the table as he went back to reading. He could skip lessons in the spellbook if he wanted to. He was still on Lighted Arrow, believe it or not, because there was so much supplemental material.
How to upscale the magic. How to make it spin or track. Weight, density—he felt like the book was trying to politely ground him in all the magic theory he didn’t have, but Pisces did sort of need to advance. So he tried to look up a more advanced spell. The book flickered as it did the same trick as when he’d first opened it.
A spell flashed across his mind; burning motes of fire hanging in the air, not flames as he knew them but…swirls in the air? Purple? He saw a woman with nine tails waving behind her, a fox’s features. Beastkin? Something else? She pointed, and the strange flames flashed past her.
Do you understand this?
He did not. Not the nature of the fire, nor how it was held—so the book’s pages flipped. Another one appeared.
A struggling figure in the deeps of the sea. Drowning, dying. Lungs bursting. Pisces could feel the terrifying pain, and he knew it from when he and Colth had—but magic glowed, and the lungs inflated with air. A spell for breathing water.
Do you understand this?
He did—but he didn’t need the spell. He needed…what did he need? An attack? Something like necromancy, perhaps?
The pages flickered again.
The green land was dying. A stain was spreading from the clawed hand pressed to the earth. The Drake had put his palm down, and now the wave of death was killing it all. Plants, soil, animals—
No. Pisces recoiled from the magic. Not that. Too indiscriminate. The pages flickered—
 
——
 
Was he being picky? After nine spells, Pisces had to take a break. He’d gone from spell to spell and hadn’t found one—yet—he could devote time to. The book had showed him spells he’d been trying to classify as if they were traditional magic. He’d cribbed some notes and his thoughts.
 
[Fox Fire]?
[Breathe Water]. No—[Create Breathable Air]—no, [Create Oxygen], yes, that was what it was!
[Ritual: Death Wave].
[Animate Bone Ogre]. He could do [Skeletal Champion], and he needed something more immediate for combat.
[Summon Animated Bone Axe]? A floating, hacking axe was appealing, but it seemed to require concentration.
[Death Orb]. A higher-grade version of [Deathbolt]? Again, not quite like the spell and fairly powerful—the example had it animating a corpse pile and attacking an oncoming Troll, but it looked slow.
[Flash Phoenix]? Okay, he didn’t know what this was. A more powerful version of Ceria’s [Firefly] spell that looked very fast, but he wasn’t sure about the pyromancy…
[River of Bone Water]. Again, he didn’t know what you’d call it, but it looked like a wave of putrid water filled with bones and death magic. Highly effective against crowds, but what if his opponents jumped?
[Flock of the Carrion Crow]. Blood magic where you slit your veins and red ravens flew up and killed everything, very fast, very efficiently—Pisces sort of suspected the book had been getting annoyed with him at this point.
 
The problem was…Pisces glanced down at the Djinni’s spellbook as he massaged his aching temples and came to a reluctant conclusion.
“I don’t believe this book is replete with death magic.”
A common problem. Sort of ironic given it had belonged to the Putrid One, but if this really was a book that Djinni had written, as Azam had claimed…he’d never heard of a Djinni whose entire thing was death magic.
It wasn’t like he had to know death magic, but he was specialized in it! Plus, Pisces appreciated a big spell, but he kept thinking of all the fast foes he’d fought. He needed a quick, heavy-hitting spell useful against Level 40+ foes…
“I might as well wish for [Flight] while I’m at it.”
He grumbled. In truth, [Deathbolt] might do…but was he going to be like Ceria? Just throwing out her signature spell nonstop? What about his rapier? He did want to be able to fight in melee range. Maybe binding that [Light Spear] spell to his rapier tip was the way to go after all.
Then again, Lareceina’s method of throwing magic arguably beat even Ceria. She could flick those marbles as fast as her thumbs, and she had a slingshot and her teammates. It was almost like Saliss’ attacks.
So powerful. Pisces paged through the book, thinking idly about how it was a tad bit unfair Lareceina’s spells were so useful. Was compression magic the route to success? True, she perceived a hard limit on her powers without training, which was why she was into combining magic…
The book’s pages flickered. Pisces jumped—then stared at the page. And this time, the spell wasn’t—
A [Druid] was sitting under a tree, next to a Unicorn, who was resting with one eye open. Apprentice? Master? The [Druid] was in his fifties, hair unshorn, covered in moss, and his clothing made of bark and natural elements. He was the apprentice, then. 
He sat cross-legged, holding his hands together over something he was working on. It came from every leaf and bit of dew around him. From himself, condensing. Magic, forming the foundation of a spell he might cast or just store. More and more until it exceeded the mana he could store in his person, until it became visible. He was concentrating, not sweating because this was not a sprint, but a slow work. Refining it—you had to refine it and make it deeper, until it was like a jewel—
Pisces blinked, and there it was. The book’s pages flipped before him as he seized on the same technique Lareceina had taught herself. Compression magic?
No, refining mana. Gathering it. Storing it. Yes, that was worth something. He had never wondered about the quality of his mana. Did he have good mana? Suddenly he had questions, and the book obliged him. The pages moved and moved and—
Pisces saw the book’s pages stop flickering. Trader Hexata and her brothers, who had been peeking at him from around their caravan, saw him stop on a page glowing with mystical spell knowledge. He stared at it. Then flipped the cover of the book up, and the little mirror-thing blinded one of the brothers as it caught the sun peeking through the shade of the wagon. Pisces stared at his page. Checked the book again.
He was on…Page 2. He put his palms together and pressed them against his lips. After a few moments, Pisces began reading with a sigh.
 
——
 
Okay, maybe he should have just read the book from the start, but he’d assumed it had known what it was doing when it assigned him magic. It…had…started him at Lighted Arrow. Worse, this introduction to magic was, uh—
Sort of easy to get. Pisces quickly realized you could intensify mana, and the book even gave him a primer on how to condense it, Lareceina-style. Only, instead of holding it in your hand and having to manually contain it…
After six minutes of scribbling on the table with a bit of sand, Pisces swore. He stared at the book. He stared at the containment circle and death mana inside. It wasn’t forming a sphere, but it was condensing without any real strain. The spell circle had a hard limit based on the materials, and if the sand shifted, it’d instantly unleash the magic, but…
He put his head down on the table so hard the sand shifted, and the death magic released with the sound of a Grand Elephant farting. He colored as people walking down the street turned; Hexata was hawking to people entering the city of Halqued.
“Perhaps I need to find Wildcard.”
If he showed Lareceina this, the team might let him hitch a ride back to Tyrant’s Rest if they were headed that way. He thought she was pretty advanced, but she could scribe a container and make a super-orb with this technique. Plus, he felt like it was time for his own carriage to arrive…though, what was this about refining mana?
“You can make a crucible and there’s higher tiers of mana? If I were to make some…put it into a [Fireball]? Ah, wait, you can literally overload a poorly made matrix. So the very spell you cast can be a poor container. Is—what grade of container do I use for spells?”
Reading was fun, especially reading and studying magic. Pisces had never asked these questions of himself before! He was drawn back to the book like a fly to honey. He’d go find Wildcards in…five minutes. One more page.
By that logic, Pisces might have spent the next five days in his seat but for a sound which eventually broke through his concentration. At first, he didn’t register it, despite the high-pitched shouting, until there was a cry desperate enough that he heard it.
“—turer! Scourge! Adventurer Pisces!”
He looked up. And there, standing behind a camel hitched to a post, was someone calling his name. He blinked and saw a familiar sight he hadn’t seen often in this faraway land.
Scales. A Drake girl was standing in a line of dusty figures. Her hands were tied together with a bit of rope, but her feet were not; she was too small, and presumably, it was too easy to catch her even if she got free of the simple tie to the slave-line. Besides—a metal collar was around her neck, and the line of men, women, and children were already marked.
[Slaves].
Pisces dropped the book. He stared as the Drake girl shouted again.
“Adventurer! Over here!”
She was dancing in line, and it was she who’d been shouting. At him. The other [Slaves] were staring at him or at the ground. Some were looking anywhere but him, but all were watching him, even out of the corner of their eyes.
“What—”
But he knew as he arose from his seat. He knew in a moment what this was—it was just that it had not hit him in the face so directly. No, he’d seen this.
As the Horns had moved across Chandrar, he’d seen [Slavers]. When they’d gone north to Hraace, and he’d seen them in Tyrant’s Rest. But he’d been with Gazi and the soldiers of Reim, or there had been no time.
The last time had been with Yvlon, and she’d distracted him. Everyone had. Or tried to keep him away from this reminder. Yisame had done so well, but she was not here.
[Slaves]. It was a caravan headed to market, and they had stopped by Hexata’s stall as the owners went to do something. If there were [Guards], they’d relaxed or were at the gates; they were inside the city. Who’d rob them here? None of them had seen the [Necromancer] sitting there; who would think to look for him when the Horns of Hammerad were known to be headed back to Tyrant’s Rest?
But the girl had. Now, she danced from foot to foot as he stood, color drained from his skin.
“Adventurer, Adventurer Pisces! Over here!”
He didn’t hear anything. Pisces saw the girl, and she was a Drake.
Kidnapped? Or did someone sell her? [Slavers] were banned across most of Izril, but—
He was in the city’s limits. Try to free her and the local Watch and Nerrhavia’s Fallen itself would be on him. Yisame might be [Queen], but this was a bad idea.
Roshal’s hand was everywhere, and they had [Assassins]. The girl was probably, what, nine? Mrsha’s age. She’d never get anywhere in a foreign land. Were the collars death-spelled?
…They looked like location and durability enchantments. But he had no idea how to cut them. If he—
“Scourge, Scourge, stop!”
Someone tackled him. He was halfway across the street when Trader Hexata and one of her older brothers slammed into Pisces. He went sprawling and nearly stabbed them.
“What are you—”
“Stop! Stop, Scourge—you are within the city, and the Golden Hordes will be on you in moments. There is already a garrison of soldiers who were here to tamp down on Hemps—a thousand will be on you in no time. You cannot attack. Even the Queen cannot shield you from this!”
The [Trader] was babbling in his ears. Pisces saw her brother let go of him, fast. Both were pale as well, sweating—
“I wasn’t going to—I was just—”
He sat up. Hexata scrambled up.
“Scourge—”
“I know.”
He knew that. But they flinched back from him, and the girl…Pisces saw her dancing in place. Someone had put a hand over her mouth. A Gnoll? He was watching Pisces.
“I—hello.”
What did you say to someone like that? Pisces stopped, and the Gnoll let go as the girl cried out.
“Adventurer Pisces, here I am! Help, help! No one’s here!”
She gazed up at him, eyes huge and earnest, and he stared at her. At the Gnoll, who whispered.
“Lleta, be silent. If they see you—”
“He’s going to let us go! Everyone knows! He’ll kill the [Slavers], right, Verg?”
The Gnoll man said nothing. He had—slashes on his fur. Black stripes that seemed not like normal fur, but some kind of dye? His fur was brown like Krshia’s, but he was thinner. Pisces’ ears…he rubbed them.
“What are a Drake girl and Gnoll doing in here? Izril doesn’t allow [Slavers].”
He said that, but remembered that caravan he and Colth had found. There was a derisive laugh at Pisces words. Just one, down the line. Pisces saw another Drake standing there. He turned his head away when Pisces peered at him, but it was the Gnoll who replied.
“Not in most Drake cities, no. But they sail the coasts. We came by harbor, from Zeres.”
“From Zeres? But—”
“The City of Waves allows [Slavers]. Just not business. That’s changing.”
So much was contained in these words that Hexata and the other Stitch-folk now watching couldn’t pick up on. Pisces and Verg traded looks, and the Drake girl interrupted.
“Adventurer Pisces, you’re the Gold-ranker who went to Albez, right? Here.”
She tried to twist and hold out her wrists. Verg closed his eyes.
“Lleta, he can’t do anything.”
“But he’s the Scourge. The television said. They beat up everyone for watching it.”
The girl informed Pisces as he stood there. And now there was something wrong with Pisces. Perhaps he was the one poisoned, not Yvlon, because he was in pain.
Not nausea, but a kind of agony that was eating him out from the inside. It made him want to scream, and it was clawing at him as he whispered.
“How did you get here? You two?”
Her face twisted up, and the Drake girl fell still. Then spoke.
“They said my parents owed a lot of money, and—and there was a mistake because Mom said it’d all be fixed, but then someone came and took me. And I told them all it was a mistake, including the Watch, and the [Guardsman] said he’d fix it, but then they took us and—”
She started gulping, then went silent. She didn’t cry. She just stared up at him, and he had to turn to Verg. The Gnoll’s reply was easier. He nodded at his stripes.
“I was bought from Drake prison cells. Not that they would have dared sell me if I had been in my tribe. I was Weatherfur.”
“Outcast?”
“For murder, yes. I was with the main tribe when we heard what had happened in the Great Plains. I disagreed with Torishi’s choice during the Meeting of Tribes and fought against my kin. It went to blood. I was exiled, then got into trouble in a Drake city for petty crimes. Funny. It all seems petty, now. Pointless.”
He stared up, at the sky, and the entire story of the man’s life to here was spelled out to Pisces. A single, crimson trail that snaked into Izril’s cities. Where it could, and then it brought them across the sea to this vast kingdom.
Roshal.
Now there was a crowd. Some of the [Guards] standing at the gates were glancing over, and Stitch-folk were lined up—but far away. Watching Pisces. Fear in their eyes, or perhaps an expectation, but most were just afraid.
They knew him. Hexata and her brothers were the only ones who dared stand close.
“Scourge…mark me, for I hold no chains, and I respect your team and wish you no ill will. Should you free them, you are a dead man within ten minutes. Even if you gained the gates, where would you go? If you had horses? They would ride you down within the hour. If you escaped them, their blades would be in your back by night.”
She was, of course, right. He had no idea where they were on a map, and crossing this vast nation—even if you got to sea, you’d need a crew who could outrun Roshal’s ships, and they were everywhere. You couldn’t hide. You’d have to take their collars off and know where…
Verg nodded.
“She’s right. Leave us, Adventurer.”
“But, Verg—”
“Tell the girl to shut up or we’ll all be whipped for it, again. Not her since she’s too young, but I’d prefer not to be lashed bloody before we get to the auctions.”
A caustic voice in line. A Drake who met Pisces’ gaze. He jerked his head.
“Interested in life stories? I’m a failed [Merchant]. There. Now, kindly, begone.”
“I’m sorry.”
Pisces felt like he was dreaming. That moment of surreality where he walked and almost saw himself from above. Yet he was also aware of each passing second. The thrumming of his heart. He stood there, and Hexata’s reasoning matched his mind perfectly.
Yet the girl was waiting. Mrsha’s age. She whispered.
“Please?”
“Necromancer—”
Verg was motioning him back; someone was hurrying through the crowd, shouting for them to make way. Pisces saw [Guards] coming from the gates. Some had bows, and they were aiming them down. Not quite at him. He looked up, and one flinched back and made a sign on her chest.
What were they afraid of? He wasn’t sure, and glanced around. Then he felt an arm on his shoulders.
“Hey, Pisces, c’mon! I think we owe you a drink.”
Someone strong finally shifted him; Hexata and her two brothers lurched as Leo pulled Pisces back. The [Tennis Champion] was grinning with all his teeth.
Wildcard? They’d returned, and Pisces saw Lareceina, Kusal—the [Rogue] grabbed his other arm.
“Let’s get him out of here. Hey, move it!”
“Adventurer! Wait! Wait!”
Lleta was shouting, trying to twist free of the ropes. Verg was holding her, but she was kicking him, screaming. Pisces saw Lareceina between him and—Leonardo was swearing.
“Fuck, Kusal, pull—”
“He’s strong—”
He was just standing there. Then came a sweating figure, who pushed through the crowd, wearing a turban, travelling clothes with that symbol burned onto them. And Pisces stared.
A Drake.
The [Slave Merchant] cast around, and when he saw Pisces, he recoiled. [Slave Guards] rushed forwards, studying him, and there was shouting.
“Back, back! Protect us by the authority of Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
“No one is to draw blades! There is no affront! None!”
The Watch Captain was shouting, waving his hands as he looked around. Eyes flicking to Pisces. But he just heard Lleta shouting.
“Adventurer! Wait! You’re a Gold-rank adventurer! Come back! Please?”
He wanted to say something. Then Lareceina blocked his view, and they finally pulled him off his feet and then—
He woke up. But like his memory of Igheriz, of those days—
The nightmare was simply reality.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet didn’t kill anyone. There was no incident that need involve the Watch or the garrison, and even Roshal’s merchants agreed it was best put behind all present.
The [Watch Captain], [Garrison Commander], and the [Mayor] all appeared to say that. Though it was Hexata and Leo that did the talking. Pisces only sat there.
For a moment. He didn’t talk. He just…
Re-articulated everything they were telling him. Of course there was no way to rescue them. Suicide. His team would be in jeopardy. It was one thing to join the fighting out in the straits—another to participate here.
Lareceina pointed it out at increasing volume to Kusal.
“This city is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not the wilds. His team are independent adventurers, and he can claim justifiably he was falsely imprisoned. Here is where the crown’s authority lies. If he draws blade unprovoked in this city, it is a blade drawn against Queen Yisame and her kingdom. If it were outside the city—”
“God damnit, Lare!”
They split up, both of them red-faced, and Pisces went over the conversation again, as if Ceria were talking with him. It was, of course, correct. Colth would say the same thing. We cannot save them all.
Eventually, he did get up. It was evening, and Wildcard were arguing whether they should leave via magical carriage to get to Tyrant’s Rest now or later.
“I’m going for a walk.”
They all turned to him, and he clarified.
“Just around the city. I’m not going to the…I’m quite aware, thank you, of the situation. There’s no further trouble?”
Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina glanced at each other and shook their heads.
“None.”
Pisces walked out of the rooms they’d rented. He didn’t know where Hexata and her brothers had gone, but it was late. The sun was setting on the city, and it was orange, casting long, lurid shadows.
Like sins. His shadow stretched behind him as the [Necromancer] saw people in the inn turn and stop talking. His name felt like it had been whispered throughout until they saw him. Then the voices died, and there was only silence.
In the street, people stopped and turned to him. Eyes filled with fear, incomprehension, or worse, a painful expectation.
He could meet no eyes. He couldn’t stand the gazes.
So he vanished.
 
——
 
Lareceina de Verteuil was correct. She had studied Nerrhavia’s Fallen and grown to know it for the year plus that she and her team had been here. They knew it too.
But despite her pointing out that fact, Kusal and Leo didn’t want to hear it. In the end, Leo told her to ‘drop it because you’re not helping, even if you are right’. Which made her so angry she stormed out of the inn.
Someone had to believe in rules. Being Gold-ranked didn’t mean you had an excuse to break laws. She, at least, was a respected Gold-ranker now.
Even if the Ice Squirrel was more popular despite being chaotic, a murderer, and rude. That annoyed Lareceina. But today had also been upsetting on multiple fronts.
In times such as these…she glanced around the streets filled with gossip, the Horns of Hammerad’s name being everywhere.
Their fight with Itkisa and their visit to the Mad Ones, their deeds, had utterly eclipsed Wildcard’s. True, the events at the Tomb of Yad’thuv had been covered up as part of their agreement, but that was fame.
She stared around as she projected mana from her body, like a pulse-wave, then condensed more in her hand. Like she stored feelings, bottling them up and compressing them.
She made the ‘mana marbles’ constantly, replenishing her stocks, concentrating the ones she had, and it gave her clarity. In such moments, Lareceina would prefer to be left alone.
—Which is why she found it intolerable for Leo and Kusal to follow her.
“I want to be left alone right now.”
“C’mon, Lare. Don’t—”
Her glare made Leo throw up his hands, but he did follow her as she walked to her destination. Which made them all the more upset.
“I’m going to hit her. What the—”
That was followed by some Sinhala swearing, but Lareceina was smiling.
“Hello, I am a Gold-rank adventurer and [Mage] inquiring about your services. May I ask if this is the only ‘stock’ you have in today?”
The person in charge of the Slaver’s Guild in the city was a Stitch-woman, Cotton, skin done up beautifully. She appeared a bit—shaken.
Everyone did. Word from the encounter on the streets had the more resplendent members in the Guild muttering and keeping to the backrooms, while prospective buyers were thin. Even so, there was traffic.
People coming to sell and buy. Though this place was not where you sold—they had a less luxurious lounge than this for that transaction.
The word ‘adventurer’ made the woman tense and everyone glance around, but Lareceina clarified.
“I am part of Wildcard, who battled the Horns of Hammerad, an adventurer in good repute with all Guilds.”
Leo gave the woman an unconvincing smile; Kusal hadn’t entered. But the woman brightened up and checked something via a magical ledger.
“Adventurer Lareceina, of course! I see you’re not a member here, but you do have a very good record with other Guilds—hello! Are you here to buy or sell?”
She was suddenly very friendly, and Lareceina got plenty of smiles and nods around the room, which made her predisposed to think she was welcomed here. She smiled back.
“Just to browse. Do you have anyone capable of acting as a Slave Adventurer?”
“Oh, no one like that—it’s a highly qualified role, but we could have a catalogue written up for you? There would be a delivery fee—our current roster is being written up.”
Lareceina nodded.
“That’s very reasonable. Hm. In that case, I’d just like to look around.”
“Absolutely, Miss! Let me issue you with a little token if you’d like to sit and have refreshments; a sign of goodwill. And if you’d choose to register with us, we would upgrade your membership—”
At this point, Leonardo’s foot was pressing down on Lareceina’s toes so painfully she shifted. But she accepted the little badges and promised to give them back once she left. Lareceina began to walk towards the VIP guest area when she had a thought and walked back to the counter.
“Excuse me, I have another question if I may? I don’t know if we can buy now, because we’re moving. But I am curious—we might be in the area. Do you have any more caravans coming to the city?”
The [Receptionist] had to check, humming as Lareceina waited patiently.
“A number—this is a decent stop along the Leashed Trails—it goes all the way to Lailight Scintillation itself, you know. East to west, across all of Chandrar.”
“Could I ask you to give me a copy of them? In case I wanted to wait for one or two. I’m trying to convince my team—do you have any attractive female [Slaves]? Garudas?”
Another smile, and the [Receptionist] laughed as she whispered to Lareceina.
“For you or your team?”
“My [Captain].”
“Well, I suppose since you are a prospective Gold-card member—we use ranks like your Adventurer’s Guild, but we go above Gold-ranks. Give me five minutes?”
It took less time than that for the [Receptionist] to get a list printed for Lareceina. Well, a [Slave] actually did the scribing onto a copy of a map, and there was no fee. So Lareceina left a gold-coin as a tip. At this point, Leo almost dragged her out of the Guild, and she protested they hadn’t looked around, to which he told her they had to go to get on the magical carriage.
When they left the Guild, Kusal appeared and spoke.
“I can’t find Pisces, but he’s not here. What did she do in there?”
“She was asking about buying—c’mon.”
They almost dragged her off. Lareceina shifted.
“Don’t grab me. Look at this.”
She flourished the little piece of paper at them. It was amazing work and spoke to Roshal’s wealth.
Not only did they have a map of the ‘Leashed Trails’, which highlighted their caravans’ travel routes across cities of this region of the kingdom, but they could make copies and they’d annotated them with each caravan. Which meant they regularly checked in and monitored their people.
It was highly impressive, and the Merchant’s Guild might not have such impressive data. Kusal stared at Lareceina.
“Leo, I’m going to punch her.”
“Cool it, Kusal. Lare, we’re not happy right now. So let’s all go back to the inn or get in the carriage and find Pisces—”
“Let’s rent two carriages, and she can ride in the other or walk back.”
They bickered in the street. Lareceina glowered at Kusal and offered him the catalogue. He tried to rip it up—she flicked a miniature gravity marble into his chest and knocked him down. Leo put Kusal in a headlock and then grabbed the map.
He crumpled it up and tossed it aside. Lareceina turned around, crossed her arms, and spoke as she stared down the street.
“Leo, I am very unhappy with you at this moment. I would like to go now.”
“Fine by me.”
They stormed off and found the magical carriage waiting for them at the inn. Adventurer Pisces still hadn’t appeared, and since he had his own magical carriage, they got in theirs. Lareceina insisted they take a specific route through the city on their way out.
“Okay, Lare. Explain exactly what that was before one of us starts shouting—”
“Shush.”
Leo made a sound, but Lareceina stared out the one-way glass of the Wistram Carriage. They were in the street right outside the Slaver’s Guild, and she stared, and Kusal nearly shouted—then saw the finger she’d put to her lips.
They had put a cloth over the scrying orb in the center of the carriage, but it was reasonable to assume that Wistram could still hear through it, potentially. Lareceina had asked, and the ability to cast a spell that let them see through cloth via the scrying orb was remote; she’d gotten some and sewn a lead lining into it anyways just in case.
Leo and Kusal stared into the street. They were right where they’d had the fight. Lareceina peered down, and there was nothing there.
Of course, the ball of paper might have moved with the wind or been swept up. But if you followed a magical signature you’d attached to it…
She saw nothing. So the carriage rolled on after a moment, and then her team sat back. And they were no longer angry.
Language was so imprecise. Lareceina hated it. So she sat back and began to flex her fingers. Her fingertips glowed in the gathering darkness, leaving little trails.
Just light magic. Words, if you squinted at the aftertrails. Wildcard sat in silence as they drove off, and that was that. They were respectable adventurers. Unlike the Horns of Hammerad.
That was, for the moment, how you had to be.
 
——
 
The magical carriage rolled away, and Pisces wondered if Wildcard had been inside of it. He suspected they had been, but he didn’t drop his [Invisibility] spell.
Perhaps they knew he was there, the Slaver’s Guild. They had magic too, but he didn’t approach. In the end, he walked off, tucking a piece of paper into his bag of holding.
He was late for his magical carriage back to Tyrant’s Rest, but the [Mage] on duty told him there would be no fee. Pisces thanked him, then got in it.
“Welcome, guest. Please state your destination and enjoy Wistram’s Carriage Services! Please note our updated policy about use in situations of conflict—”
Pisces ignored the familiar voice of Mage Rievan speaking and spoke.
“Tyrant’s Rest, palace.”
“Please enjoy our complimentary—”
He ignored the scrying orb, then opened a window. The city moved past him as the magical carriage navigated the now-dark streets at slow speed, heading towards the nearest gate.
 
——
 
The [Guards] at the gates didn’t exactly like the annoying Wistram Carriages, which would loudly request entry and priority passage at increasing volumes, or the fact that they weren’t allowed to always search them.
Wistram was negotiating with each nation for this kind of access, but in this case, they were glad to see the carriage go. For everyone knew it held the Bane, and the sooner he was out of the city…
Disagree, agree with him—his name was famous, and his team, perhaps rightfully so, the talk of Chandrar and the world. But an honest or dishonest Stitch-person did not long to see the legend of the [Necromancer], Pisces, told in their city.
By the Threadmakers, no. So each tensed spine straightened as the carriage left, pausing only before the gates to be waved past all those in line, and even the Watch Captain on duty was said to have gone to the nearest [Stitchmistress] to have her spine and shoulders replaced, so knotted were they.
The carriage sped out into the darkness, glowing faintly blue, made of magic and light and carrying a legend off, and leaving only this city to smaller stories, like the Mad Ones. Funny to now think of them as the lesser of great tales, but theirs was a contained thing, unlike the match which might blaze brightly, then fade away just as quick.
Who were they to say? Let it only be a story, then, for all to brag about or speak of when drinks were spilled. They had seen a legend, but not any more than that. Lucky, then! Ah, yes…
 
——
 
Trader Hexata was shaken herself from the events of the day. She thought it was worth something in coin; spinning the tale of her brief encounter with the Horns would attract some customers, surely, and the Mad Ones always had curios.
Still, had it not twisted at the heartstrings to see that girl begging to be freed? For a second, she had thought…well, her brothers had remonstrated with her on her madness, but she had truly liked Necromancer Pisces. At first, she had thought him so much more mild than his reputation.
But at the end, there…
Well, all things were mended with thread and time. She was packing up her caravan; they’d leave at dawn for new cities and profits. She was wondering if she could sell the table and chairs where Pisces had sat—a shame they were not marked, but if she got it certified on truth spell?
As the magical carriage rolled towards the gates, perhaps only Trader Hexata, cleaning her caravan, saw the dust swirl oddly in the street next to the open window. For a second, the carriage slowed, then a bright voice spoke from within.
“Window closing. Please note, Wistram is not responsible for passengers l—”
The [Trader] straightened. Perhaps that had only been her mishearing or a trick of the wind. Likely, likely…but the [Guards] waved the carriage through, and who could see through the glass that did not reveal the occupants?
Of course, it would be silly of her to think otherwise. A fool’s madness, perhaps.
“Brothers? Mind the wagon. I’m just going for a walk…”
“At this hour? Sister, is your head stuffed with wool? Here, wait a second—you’ll have a [Brigand] or [Footpad] on you—”
Her eldest brother peered up from the wagon and leapt down, but Hexata was walking towards the gates. The [Guards] let her out but warned her the gates would close within the hour, and she walked further.
Further, as the dust swirled across the ground. Then her eyes narrowed. They passed beyond the sight of the gates as the terrain changed slightly, leading them over a slope. And then the wind blew a storm of dust across her, and she shielded her face.
“Sister! Have you taken leave of your—”
Grulive followed her at a run, cursing, with Xomet behind. They halted in their tracks as the wind died down, and the [Trader] sighed.
There he was.
Pisces Jealnet was walking across the ground. He had found a hood and bought it, and the cloak hid his iconic white robes. Even if the wind had revealed him in sight of the walls, what of it?
It was dark, and at a distance, he looked like any other traveller or vagrant. Only one who had been standing right there…
He turned as she called out.
“Adventurer. I meant every warning. You are a famous Gold-rank adventurer, and if I do not mistake your level, it is over 40. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen eats such individuals up. Our greatest [Mage] is one that not even Archmage Amerys challenges. Our coliseums made the likes of Mars. You are one man, and the nation of Roshal is vast.”
He turned back, and his face was calm. So oddly calm, not like he was reading his spellbook. She had stolen glances at him, wondering if he might look up and their eyes meet. Though he had charmed the Arbiter Queen, it was said, and she was a humble [Trader]—
But he had been so engrossed in reading, smiling, musing, eyes glowing with a passion that she had just watched him for hours. Nor was it the calmness of the man who had come to meet the Mad Ones, peaceable, in good humor with his team for all he might grimace or quibble at times.
This was a different man, unlike the one she’d wrestled on the street. Just…
Confident. Yes, that was the word. A confidence she had known a few times when she had the perfect deal, when she knew herself to be poised and all things seemed to be balanced. Not luck, but surety. Nor was he utterly happy, but he was sure. Now, he bowed, a [Duelist]’s graceful motion.
“Trader Hexata. Thank you for your help in all the ways you have aided me today. I hope you will aid me in one last way by keeping our encounter private.”
She didn’t say anything; her throat was tight, so it was her eldest brother, Grulive, who croaked.
“That—you have our word on it, by coin and honest means, Adventurer. May we never take a copper if we lie. But you have no team.”
They pointed this reasonable thing out, and he nodded like it was meaningful. But then Pisces just brushed at his hair and looked around. His shoulders seemed to lighten at their very words.
“Yes. That’s true. I would prefer their company, but some things…I have always aspired to be a good teammate, you see. I have been a poor friend and led my first team astray by my presence. I would hate to bring them more trouble, even if I hope they’d support me.”
He stopped a moment and smiled at something only he could see.
“Surely, they would. This, though, is something I can do. In my spare time. I’ll find my team in a moment. I’m just…restless.”
Then he turned, as if that said it all rather than left a thousand thousand words unspoken, and walked away. Darkness claimed him in moments, or perhaps he became invisible again. It left Hexata and her brothers to stand there until they knew the gates would close and had to turn. But it lingered in their ears, each and every one. And they said nothing as they returned to their wagon or over their late repast, but it was in their eyes. An echo unsaid.
In my spare time. Restless.
They were not grand words, but Hexata approached the sleepy [Barmaid] at night and paid for a week’s worth of rooms on instinct. Then she went to her rooms and tossed and turned for so many hours that a weary guest below her had to bang on the door and demand she be quiet. But she could not sleep.
Hexata waited—not knowing when or where. But knowing nonetheless. Like a team of Gold-rank adventurers headed back to Tyrant’s Rest. As a girl cried herself to sleep in cells—
Six people in this world could not sleep.
They waited.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet awoke after a satisfactory five hours of sleep. He needed his rest, and he rolled out of his bedroll. He’d created a little bone bivouac, but failed to account for the winds. They’d blown sand all over him until he’d had to enclose himself entirely in the improvised tent. For air, he’d built a breathing tube.
He’d still been buried and realized this location had to border the Great Desert. The Glass Straits too; it was a famous natural road across Chandrar and part of these Leashed Trails. Exactly the place you’d put the Mad Ones in case something blew up too big.
Sparse cover meant it was harder for [Bandits] to lie in wait, he supposed. Plus, his knowledge of history and the town’s museum had said that the roads that the Immortal Tyrant had built intersected with the ones the King of Destruction had laid down the eastern coast. Ideal for caravans.
Getting out of bed was Pisces’ first challenge and surprisingly hard. He nearly buried himself trying to get out of the sand. Then he slapped his forehead.
“I am such a fool. Out of practice. Arise.”
Bones flew up out of his breathing tube, then formed Skeleton Champions who began to dig with their bare hands. Then bone shovels. Pisces finally excavated himself and shook his head.
In a way, he felt like a sleepwalker, much like the King of Destruction had been said to be. He felt more focused today. Hraace, even the coliseum, felt like another man’s memories.
Pisces was no smarter today, but he was aware when he was being a fool. And he could not be—so he regarded the Skeleton Champions, who were currently naked.
He’d have to armor them up with Colth’s gear. Several had ‘perished’ at sea, and Pisces had not thoroughly replaced their armor and weapons.
“I should have done that the moment we reached land.”
Bones too. He had Nekhret’s bones, but if he had more space in his bag of holding, he could double his supply, and it was a finite resource. Gargoyle bones…Ama was right.
Pisces got moving as he ate the sweet jerky that Hexata had sold him. And again, he caught himself.
He had been moving with [Flash Step], trying to time each footfall so he was able to run with the spell. It was making good progress, but Pisces felt too noticeable; he couldn’t keep up [Invisibility] and [Flash Step]. Plus, each cast burned magic, however efficient the spell was.
So he stopped and thought. He needed transport…this was a vast region. But he had no handy camel like Ksmvr had claimed he’d had, his arch nemesis Spitty. But…
“Is it here? Please let me have taken it, not Colth. Aha.”
Pisces smiled when he pulled an object out of his bag of holding. He truly didn’t make use of his gifts, but this, at least…
The curious saddle lay on the ground as Pisces animated a horse, and he had to adjust the bones, but the saddle made for undead horses from the King of Duels himself had been created for just this purpose.
Then he was riding. And the undead horse…he poured death mana into it until the blue eyes were glowing bright.
Pisces cast an illusion on himself and the horse. At a distance, they seemed like an ordinary horse and rider. It’d fall apart the moment someone got close since he was no great caster, but he didn’t take the main roads. He was reading the map that Lareceina’s team had tossed aside, doing calculations.
The nearest caravan would be…it was a lot of guesswork, but Pisces had other advantages. He galloped over to a section of the road after a few minutes, tossed something down, and moved off the road again. He then found another stretch of road about twenty miles north and did the same. If he saw anyone on the path, he’d either get off his horse and jog over, pretending to be a traveller, or wait until they were gone. Or just toss down the object and let it make its way over.
He lost three of his undead mice to casualties; two were snatched up by birds who mistook them for actual mice. The last ran into something from underground; a scorpion or snake he bet. But the rest surveyed the road.
The more he tossed down, the more he had to concentrate, of course. Pisces had always felt Ivery and Bearbones, the Skeleton Lord and Skeleton Warbear duo, as distant foci he had to ‘upkeep’ with mana, but they had been largely self-sufficient.
Now, each mouse plus the skeleton horse was a little amount of death magic he had to expend—and he was counting how much he had. He did have a [Ashen Mana Well], but he wished he was stocked up on mana potions; he only had six.
Ceria’s circlet or Lareceina’s stored magic would be invaluable. But he had been lax. Lazy. So Pisces did what he could.
He went to the bathroom in the sand, and his second crisis was a lack of toilet paper. That one was highly distressing. In the end, Pisces, cursing, had to cut up some spare clothing and use the strips…
“Colth and Ksmvr always had the supply.”
Highly embarrassing. He’d need his own. At least he’d had a sleeping bag. But one had to do one’s business. Ahem. Pisces buried the waste, then finished his work.
The Skeleton Champions stared accusingly at Pisces as he assembled them. He’d forgotten to make them turn around. They felt weirdly judgemental, and he hoped this wasn’t a Toren scenario. Or maybe it was just how he’d react.
He had them put on the rest of his gear; they seemed to fight for gear such that instead of three or four fully-geared ones, he ended up with all of them having a piece of armor, but none of them being fully kitted out.
A bit…well, less impressive. Some didn’t even have weapons, so he made weapons out of bone for them.
Pisces recalled Colth’s comments in the Meeting of Tribes and made sure that each Skeleton Champion had a weapon that Pisces had at least basic competency with. All rapiers seemed like a bad idea; they needed to mix weaponry.
He also had a choice to make at this moment when he reviewed his remaining bones and remembered—there had been two Manticores in the Coliseum of Monarchs. He briefly toyed with animating a full Manticore…but ruled it out for two reasons.
Firstly—he didn’t know how they were assembled. He’d have to puzzle together their anatomy, and that took time he didn’t have. He could get one working in a day or two, but he’d have to make sure they moved right—you could swift-animate the bones, and they’d more or less work, but you ‘strengthened’ undead so they swung harder and were more durable at the joints.
The difference between a Skeleton Knight and a mere skeleton. Instead, he re-purposed the bones and added three Skeleton Champions, spreading out the Manticore’s bones across the rest.
That gave him eleven who looked markedly more sturdy, if a bit lopsided due to having to fit Manticore bones in their frames. Hulking. They stared ahead, eyes glowing…then shuffled around as Pisces went to pee again.
He couldn’t help it. He was nervous. But then Pisces led the Skeleton Champions over to a patch of ground and let them work. He sat on the flattest section of the ground; on an ancient block of stone cracked in a few places, but forty paces by forty paces across.
And here was history. The Immortal Tyrant’s roads. Many places had been covered by dirt or broken at the edges, but these roads had endured long past her laws. He stared up at the sky, and it was blue. The air was dry, hot, even, but his white robes held the heat off, and he drank water sparingly. Cast a little cooling spell.
Pisces took this moment to reflect. He appreciated what Hexata had done for him, and Wildcard. He wished them well, and he knew he was selfish. He made trouble for his team, even if he’d tried often to be…
“A better person. But I suppose I am selfish. I wonder if I would recognize myself. The Pisces who came from Ailendamus.”
Would he be impressed? Uncomprehending of how his road had taken him so far? Proud? Pisces wondered what Ceria would say. He tried to predict the future. There were plenty of dire outcomes. Outcomes that stemmed from his actions. If they came and his team suffered…
“Taking responsibility isn’t enough. I never took responsibility for Wistram. How could I? I can only hope it doesn’t come to that. Utterly selfish.”
But he kept sitting there and thought of her. He didn’t think of her every day. But that refrain was always in his mind at moments like this.
Because you’re better than they are. Was he? It was the doubt that kept him guessing. Trying. But—he was putting their chances of getting to Ksmvr and her in jeopardy, he knew. Yet he still couldn’t get up and leave.
He had no profound insights as he sat there in silence, with only the undead for company, and they didn’t talk much in Pisces’ experience. Just that odd sense of calm.
At last, he saw movement and half-stood. But then he sat back with a sigh.
“Silly me.”
The figure that came pounding the road was the most common sight in the wilds. Reassuring, somehow. A Runner.
Down the road he came, feet pounding the pavement. Bare feet, Pisces noted; the swearing Stitch-man did a double-take when he saw Pisces.
“Here, are you hurt? Lost?”
He looked around for an ambush before hurrying over. Perhaps the fellow was snake-bit or delirious? But Pisces just waved at him.
“Just resting.”
“Well, get up if you’re in the path of a cart or they’re like to run you over! Got any deliveries? I’m bound for Halqued, then beyond!”
Something about the young man sitting there was vaguely familiar, but the City Runner was hopping from foot to foot, and Pisces saw.
“Are you alright? Your feet—”
“I’m trying to run like the Wind Runner! Argh! But however she does it, it is not on the sunbaked sands of Chandrar, or may my stitching rot and fall out! If I gain the class, may it all be worth it! I’m sorry, I cannot stay.”
“No, no, best of luck!”
Pisces shouted after the City Runner, who went pounding off across the road, cursing. Pisces shook his head, smiling. Ryoka Griffin, truly an inspiration.
That actually cheered him up, so he was lying on his back, gazing at the sky empty of clouds, when he felt the faint rumble and sat up. Ah.
There they were. He stretched and was glad he’d used the bathroom. As it so happened, something reached Pisces at that moment. Fate? Funny coincidence? Then again, it was about, what, ten in the morning? Right when a half-Elf might rise after a long day.
A [Message] spell.
 
Ceria, Exalted Captain: Hey, are you almost back yet? Yisame mentioned some kind of fracas, but we’ll sort it out later. Yvlon’s sick. Magical sleeping sickness. Pretty nasty. What’s your estimated time of arrival-thing on the carriage? (It’s a display on the scrying orb.)
 
He blinked at the sky. Then raised a finger to his temples.
 
Pisces: With apologies, Ceria, I might be a bit late.
 
Then he waited.
 
——
 
The caravan was known as the Blessed Chains of Hotq. Their owner wasn’t Hotq; he’d retired two decades back, and his best apprentice, Slave Merchant Throsa, had succeeded him. They were known for throwing open their covered wagons to pour thick, black tea in cups for any visitors.
Fine hospitality, and finer flesh. But only when they had visitors. Right now, Throsa was pushing everyone to more speed. Horses strained as they moved at a fast clip, and the [Guards] were thinking of making the merchandise get out and run to reduce weight.
That would soil them a bit for the markets, and they were a day out from their next stop, but they were also cautious of going too fast. The reason Throsa was so upset was because of her Skill.
[Forewarned Attack]. A useful Skill for a woman in her business. She did not know where or exactly when, only that one was coming in the next few days. Sometimes, the attack never came; the Skill was imprecise, but let you know if the possibility arose.
If they got to the city and unloaded some of their merchandise, she’d be happier. She could add more [Guards] for the next leg of the journey, even hire adventurers or mercenaries. That let her cut losses and sacrifice wagons if it was a monster attack…
Her nightmare, which was unspoken, was that it was the [Rebels], but they were far east of here according to the Guild’s networks, and she paid her dues for knowledge, damnit! But perhaps it was that name that had come down the road with oncoming traffic.
It was a forbidden name in her caravan; she insisted the scrying orb be turned off and had petitioned every notable in the cities she had visited to see it her way. Such actions, such deeds against Roshal, who was so rich and an ally of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—!
But she had it on good authority that he’d gone to the capital, so it was [Bandits] she feared. Throsa had a spyglass out as she rode on one of her wagons and kept peering at the sky. She had it in her head that the attack would be from the sky. A Garuda flight of raiders. The damned pests might try to carry off a prize slave if they knew it was her wagon, despite the weight…
But her caravan was no small one, for all it prized quality over quantity. She had no less than six holding wagons and three-score [Slave Guards]. A score was twenty. It was a good rule of thumb to carry one [Guard] per every eight [Slaves]. You could go up to twenty, but only a fool exceeded that.
Sixty [Guards], some of whom were above Level 30, and herself. More than enough for the short transit between cities in this section of the Leashed Trails. If she were to go across the Glass Straits, she’d double or triple the guard…
They were barely ten miles from the city. With all her scanning around, she actually missed the figure sitting on the road until he stood. Even then…Throsa didn’t register him until there was a call from the lead [Slave Guards] riding.
“Exalted Merchant, ahead of us…”
Something about the woman’s tone was caught between amusement and uncertainty. Like someone assuming a prank was being played on her, if only her mind. Because…it was a joke, right?
Throsa’s spyglass fixed on the Human who was standing in front of the caravan. She heard a few voices shouting.
“You on the road! You’re finally awake, eh? Out of the way before we run you over!”
“We’re of Roshal! We’ll ride you down for impeding us or take you as merchandise!”
That came from another [Guard]—it was mostly just a threat. Throsa nearly snapped at him to mind his tongue; it was frowned upon to remind people how many tricks Roshal had. Then again, there was the prestige of—
Her gaze slowly swung back to the young man. He was just standing there as the wind blew his white robes and hair. Just…a Human.
His skin was not as fair as all that; he had a slight sunburn, actually. And he was shaking his head. The images she had seen on bounty posters had him on horseback, in motion. Surrounded by others. Even with breasts—his was a face that every man or woman on these trails knew.
But this one…there was something about him that fit more than the others. As if…
It was him. Her tongue locked in her mouth before she could stutter.
“S-stop! [Caravan, Halt]!”
The horses screamed, and the riders of each wagon cried out as the animals and the riders were forced to slow. Glowing chains of authority whipped between Throsa and even her guards. Her will. Her burgeoning aura, a sign of her promise.
“Exalted Merchant, what—”
“That—”
She pointed, and her [Head of Chattel Guarding] turned. He stared across the road, and then his eyes widened. He turned his head right and left.
“Ambush? But there are no dunes—they ride over dunes or out of cover—or the sandstorms from the [Bandit Lady]—”
“It’s him. Get—get the—”
She was drawing a wand with shaky hands. It could kill even a Gold-ranker in a single shot, or so the [Mage] in Lailight Scintillation had claimed. [Scaied Venombolt]—it had never failed in killing anyone she’d struck. With her other hand, she drew a magical dagger that could extend and stab through a foe in a moment, like a lance.
The [Guards] had gone silent. Half were pointing, glancing at their fellows to grin and say, ‘look at this mistake I have made’. The others, like their leader, were protesting.
“We had word he was going to—”
“Get the wagons in a circle!”
She shouted. Her Skills. She was frozen up, but she knew her trade. But there was no [Rebel] wave riding at them. No sandstorm. Just…
Pisces Jealnet. He moved at last. He was walking forwards. Now, she saw him reach for something at his side. Part of her had wondered if this was a dream, hoped it would be.
But when she saw that curious rapier, Throsa knew. It was metal and bone, two gleaming colors. And a little bell hung from it; her spyglass picked it out. He was striding, now. Long-legged, moving faster. She shouted.
“[All To Arms: Protect the Merchandise]! [Caravan: Pricklethorn Flesh]—”
Her defensive Skills. The [Head of Chattel Guarding] was still denying it. Throsa didn’t see anyone else. He was one man. One versus sixty—
A Gold-rank adventurer. Scourge. Bane of—
Then the sand moved next to the road. Ahead of Pisces, Throsa heard a cry.
“Ambush! Ambush—”
Someone’s Skill went off belatedly. Giving them, what, ten seconds? A low-level fool’s Skill, which was sometimes all that you needed—
Bows sang as the [Guards] fired, some reflexively, others with Skills like [Opening Shot]. But even the ones that landed just…
A Skeleton Champion dug itself out of the earth where it had been waiting and caught an arrow. It shook dirt and sand off its body as it lifted a greatsword. Eleven undead figures rose, like a ghastly honor-guard. Then they were running. Bones clattering as they charged the caravan—and now a cry was going up from the [Slavers]. Horror, fear.
“Necromancer! Undead! It’s him!”
They took aim at the [Necromancer], but he was running. Running…and he vanished as the first arrows loosed. One of his steps took him a dozen paces forwards.
[Flash Step]. And his second step just as far—
He was running, vanishing and reappearing across the ground so fast Throsa could barely track him. Curving, dodging arrows and spells. But coming at the caravan—
Then she pulled her head behind her enchanted wagon’s fabric. For she had seen his finger rise. There was light filtering through the thin canopy of her wagon. Shouting voices. Throsa shivered—then saw the light flicker out as something passed by her wagon’s walls.
Silence, for a moment. Then a figure fell from their saddle. They landed with a dull thump on the ground. A quiet voice. Someone calling out for a friend, a comrade.
Then—the scream of horses. A cry of agony as a Skeleton Champion shot a mortal woman in the stomach. The clash of metal on metal—
Chaos and battle. Throsa waited by the driver’s seat, hands shaking and sweating. She closed her eyes. Battle she knew; she had faced this before. But this time—
This time, she could hear them. Curse them. She’d brand them all for this. She’d make them scream. But it didn’t stop them.
The [Slaves] in the wagons.
They were laughing.
 
——
 
His first [Deathbolt] took a [Slave Guard] out of the saddle. Then he was amidst them. No time to circle; there were too many. His Skeleton Champions hit the caravan a moment later, and he was fighting up.
They were all mounted. It wasn’t an advantage; they were trying to form a circle with the wagons, and if they’d split up and rode, he’d have been attacked from all angles.
Instead, they were at the mercy of their horses. Pisces spoke.
“[Flashbang].”
The explosion of sound and light sent horses rearing. The [Guards] clung to their saddles or fell off. One tumbled to the ground, crying out as she broke an arm. She looked up, and Pisces stared down into terrified, blue eyes. A Human’s face. She opened her mouth.
“P—”
He drove the rapier through her mouth. Turned and pointed. [Flame Swathe]. It coated a Stitch-man, but the flames didn’t take on his skin at first. Pisces kept his finger pointing for six seconds. Eight…
Too slow. The screaming figure was writhing as their horses galloped away, and the others were getting up. One was already on his feet. A Skill—he hadn’t attacked. Fear? He raised a shield.
Pisces’s [Shatterbolt] hit the shield. The unenchanted metal exploded, and the [Guard]’s flesh-and-blood arm cracked. Blood ran out of the broken skin, and he screamed, clutching at the bone.
Pisces beheaded him, then saw another [Guard] riding. He stabbed through a chest, wrenched the blade out, and heard a scream. Still alive—
A Skeleton Champion brought down a shortsword into the [Guard]’s guts. It turned, caught a blow from one of the mounted [Guards] on a shield—Pisces spoke again.
“[Flashbang].”
If it worked once—the horses went stampeding away this time. And the others were taking cover behind the wagons. Trying to stop the Skeleton Champions—
But the eleven had come in swinging so hard that the one with the greatsword had nearly cut a [Guard] in half, chainmail or not. Their blows were as heavy as Yvlon’s—for two or three swings. Then they grew weaker.
[Bonerattler Charge]. It was enough—there weren’t that many. The guards on horseback were racing around, trying to aim. Where was he…?
Gone. The [Necromancer] had vanished. The Skeleton Champions were pressing against the wagons, fighting individually. But where…?
The circle of wagons had [Guards] on the inside, screaming for enchanted munitions, for help against the champions—but some were fighting near the wagons holding the [Slaves].
“Get out! Get out and fight or die! Merchant, the kill-collars! Stop laughing! Stop—”
Six of them were trying to yank out the [Slaves] of one wagon and arm them. One of the [Guards] glanced around and saw the dust rising in the air swirl. She turned.
“Behind—”
Pisces stabbed her through the eye. Five [Guards] were in front of him. Two on the ground, one climbing into the wagon, two inside. He stepped back.
[Quick Reset]. Then lunged forwards in a fencer’s attack. Just like his father had shown him.
But the impact of his rapier punching through cheek and bone…Padurn had never described that. He didn’t know it. The second [Slaver] went down. Pisces saw the third moving, swinging a shield up—
His rapier sprayed blood, gore, and brain across the face as he withdrew it and slashed across the throat. So fast that the Stitch-man reached up and choked on his own blood as he tried to inhale. And Pisces’ rapier was already hamstringing the fourth [Slaver], who fell, screaming. Then Pisces ran him through.
All of this in the span of three seconds. He moved faster than they could dream, a blur.
[Manacharged Reflexes]. The two [Guards] in the wagon cried out, and one shouted.
“[Quick Stab]!”
A fast blow to Pisces as he was turning from the fourth [Slaver]. His blade came up.
[Flash Parry]. The other [Guard] lifted a bow, fired. Pisces stepped left, and the arrow punched into the dirt. His [Flash Step] carried him back, and the [Slaver] with a bow fumbled for an arrow.
He dropped it, and it clattered to the floor. He reached for another as his companion with the sword backed up.
“Jotec, help! Draw your blade and h—”
The terrified archer saw Pisces’ blade rise. It seemed to glow as he swept the blade up in a stab. The swordsman shouted.
“[Deft G—]”
He did block the blow, but his sword wasn’t strong enough. Pisces’ Skill punched upwards. His rapier extended and ran the Stitch-man through the chest.
[Rising Spearthrust]. The [Slaver Archer] was fumbling for a dropped arrow on the ground as the body of his comrade rose, then fell back, blood coating the wagon’s floor. Then he looked down. Five dead guards—the [Necromancer] was standing there.
“Help—”
The other wagons where his comrades were fighting hadn’t even seen. One of them turned their head and saw Pisces at last. They stared. The [Archer] backed up—the [Necromancer] was pointing at him.
He ran into something. Bodies. The [Slaves] were all bunched up inside. There was an impact on his back. Then he was stumbling forwards.
They’d kicked him. Kicked—he went over the wagon’s edge, screaming. Pisces stabbed up as the final [Guard] came down. Then he heaved the body off his rapier.
“Behind us! He is inside the—”
The [Necromancer] rose, blood coating his white robes and sword. But he shook the blood off his enchanted robes, and his blade gleamed as he stepped backwards. He strode away, [Flash Stepping] out of the circle of wagons before the [Guards] could surround him. He had only said one word to the six dead men and women. A whisper.
“Arise.”
The dead man he had impaled opened his eyes. They glowed. Slowly, he got up as the other [Guards] rushed past him. They thought he’d made it. One turned—and the zombie grabbed a shoulder. Opened his mouth wide, unhinging his jaw, and bit—
 
——
 
He felt like he was too slow. Pisces emerged from the brief skirmish in the wagons and was aware that every second, the [Guards] would overwhelm his Skeleton Champions. Six were damaged. Two down.
How many of the [Guards] were left…? He spotted the ones on horses circling and firing arrows. Pisces’ instinct was to attack them, but then he realized they were switching weapons.
Arrows were useless on Skeleton Champions without Skills or magic. He was panting. Did he have magic for [Invisibility]…?
Not in quick succession. He leaned against a wagon, then saw the riders charge the Skeleton Champions from behind. One was clubbing down at the Skeleton Champion who had a rapier—Pisces charged.
[Flash Step] three times, then—he stabbed up into a stomach, wrenched the blade around, and heaved it out. Not dead, but the Skeleton Champion dragged the screaming figure down. The other [Riders]—Pisces didn’t want to kill the horses, but he slashed their legs. They kicked, screaming, and one bucked a [Rider]. He saw a Skeleton Champion seize the [Rider] and grapple on the ground.
“[Deathbolt]. [Deathbolt].”
Mana running lower. Skills—he had used a lot of them. Pisces spoke.
“Keep them boxed in. Archer, don’t let the ones with bows shoot me.”
The Skeleton Champion with a bow began loosing arrows rapidly, forcing the [Slavers] to keep their heads down. Pisces saw the remaining riders turning to scatter. Eight.
They fled, and he ran them down. No spells save for [Flash Step]. Just his sword. If they turned, they left an opening while they were presenting their sides to him to stab, when the horse was at its slowest. If they gave him no opening, he cut the horse on the legs, and the animal would try to kick or buck its rider and give him that opening.
Three went down, and he took his first wound. An arrow punching through his guard and striking him on the chest.
His underarmor meant he barely felt it.
I might be dead without armor. If it hit me in the face—foolish. He turned, and the remaining five…
Were running. Pisces chased them down. He could beat the horses, and they’d all tried to go for the road to the city. By the time they thought to split up…
Half his Skeleton Champions were down. Pisces was panting as he drank a mana potion. He was running, now. And he saw…
Most of the [Slavers] were dead. Barely a dozen were left, clinging to a carriage they were trying to get moving. One was running, trying to jump on it, when a spear ran him through. Pisces glanced around. Were there any…?
The six Skeleton Champions charged, but the wagon was picking up speed; the wheels were enchanted. One of the [Guards] took an arrow to the chest and fell off the roof. Another was thrown off the roof at a Skeleton Champion, sacrificed to slow it down. Pisces saw the pair of stallions running and whispered.
“Sorry.”
He exploded a [Flashbang] in their faces; they reared, cut the leads as they halted, trying to tear free of their tethers. Then he swung himself up—
The dagger nearly shot through his face. Pisces recoiled as a woman slashed at him, screaming. The [Slavers] were fighting as their leader came out. Pisces [Flash Stepped] back. There was a moment when both pointed at each other.
[Deathbolt].
“Die!”
His [Deathbolt] hit the wall of the wagon, and she recoiled; her spell would have gone through his chest but for his [Flash Step]. Pisces took aim again—she fired wildly from inside the carriage, and he, panting, missed his second shot; it must have gone over her head.
He was standing on the balls of his feet, tensed, prepared to lunge forwards and leap into the wagon. But that dagger. [Invisibility]? Could she see him? She’d feel him on the floorboards of the wagon or see him moving if he got too close. [Acid Orb] the entire thing? What spell was—
He was locked on the wagon when it jostled, and he leapt sideways. But no spell came from inside—there was a scream, a flash of muddy brown light. Then…silence.
Pisces wavered. Then a Skeleton Champion pushed the wagon’s curtains aside. It had two daggers in its hands. Bloodied. It pushed the [Merchant]’s corpse out and onto the ground, then its head swivelled. Searching for foes. It leapt down and strode towards the other wagons. And then—and then—
He realized all the [Slavers] were dead.
 
——
 
In the aftermath, as the adrenaline left Pisces’ body and he felt shaky and emptier, he did come to his senses and count his mistakes.
A number of them. The first was not properly ambushing the caravan. He’d just thought…
If the skeletons had emerged around the caravan, they’d have been in a better position. Even with the anti-ambush Skill—no, he should have known they’d had that.
Second, he should have never attacked the [Merchant] at the end. He’d nearly gotten himself killed when his Skeleton Champions had been able to deal with her. Whatever that spell was, it looked highly poisonous and had scarred the ground black.
Third was not taking her out at the start. She had been the leader, and her Skills had empowered the caravan. In fact, she had killed two Skeleton Champions herself; holes in their skulls showed where that dagger of hers had punched through their bones, and another had a fully-melted ribcage. If she’d had a wand suited for killing undead instead of people, she might have torn through the lot.
Fourth, his aim…he was sure there were more mistakes, but Pisces realized he was distracted. He drank more water. Poured some over his face. Then got to work.
“Grab the dead Skeleton Champions. Get all the bodies you can. No—load them up into the wagons. Grab the horses if they’re around. Get them moving off the road, now!”
Dispose of the evidence. It was lucky no one had come down the road. Perhaps they had…perhaps the [Slavers] had sent a distress call. He had to move fast.
Pisces didn’t know this part. He went to the dead Stitch-woman and searched her corpse. What he was looking for he didn’t know. Keys? He knew some [Slavers] could kill their [Slaves] with a spell. If it was keyed to her survival…
His heart began to pound in horror. But then he heard faint laughter from the wagons. He didn’t find keys on the woman. So where…?
At his instruction, the Skeleton Champions collecting bodies searched, and one finally jangled something. One of the [Guards] had a keyring. Actually, several did.
Pisces snatched one and swung into the wagons. They were already moving as terrified horses trotted away from the skeletons herding them and making vague shooing motions. For a moment, when he pulled the coverings back, there was silence. He stared into the darkness and saw faces squinting at him. Blinded by the light…uncertain. Afraid—
Until they saw him. Then he heard a sigh and saw a mix of Humans, Stitch-folk, a pair of Garudas blinking up at him. Some recoiled. Flinching back from the man covered in blood and gore. Others just smiled politely.
“Ah, there he is. Don’t wake me from my dream another moment, please, friends.”
A Stitch-man spoke up, leaning back against the tiny bench where he was jammed shoulder-to-shoulder with the others. They were chained to the benches. Unable to move more than a foot from the berths. Pisces wavered.
He didn’t know what to say. It was the nearest [Slave] who spoke next. A Garuda with brown feathers that turned slowly to orange lifted his head. He gazed up and rasped with a throat parched for moisture.
“Bane of Roshal. Are we free?”
As if he knew Pisces. As if this moment hadn’t been luck, improvisation, an arrow’s trajectory from Pisces’ death. He spoke the words with such trust. Pisces stared at him, and for a moment, he was sitting there.
In chains, staring up at a falling rainbow. Hearing a booming voice in his ears as the Death of Chains turned the dark night into magic and freedom.
He was not Czautha’qshe. He had no grand words. He had failed so many on his journey here. But…Pisces fumbled for the keyring, then handed the Garuda it. The man almost dropped the keyring and saw Pisces fish out another copy.
“Yes. Hurry. Free yourselves and then the others. Never let yourselves be chained again.”
It was such a damned silly thing to say. They were not even out of chains, but he said it, because the words were hot in his chest. Hotter than the brand on his skin.
Someone had to say them.
The Garuda tried to sort the keys, but his wing-talons were shaky. Pisces found the right key first. He slotted it into the lock, and it clicked. He yanked the manacles off and realized there was another set for the Garuda’s wrists.
The same key fit both locks. The heavy iron fell, and the Garuda stood. He spread his wings—then glanced at the keys. Fumbled to find the same one Pisces did as the [Necromancer] turned to the next person in line. A Stitch-woman who was crying. Silently—
The wagon had gone so quiet. Like people trying not to wake up. Waiting…Pisces realized that the wagon was so full.
How many bodies were crammed in here? He’d counted at least five other wagons—he began to call for the Skeleton Champions, but realized they might not know how this worked.
“I’ll free someone in the other wagons. Just keep unlocking—I’m sorry, I’ll be back.”
The Garuda half-turned as he strode for the wagon’s lip. He blinked at Pisces, then spoke.
“You returned to Chandrar and freed us. Some claim yours is just a face that [Rebels] wear. But you’re him. The first one called the Bane of Roshal. The actual [Necromancer].”
“Yes. I am.”
Pisces spoke to the Garuda, and it did feel like the two men were in a dream. One reliving his, the other…but the Garuda felt at his wrists, at the bruised flesh under his feathers, then peered up at the sky.
“Are you sure?”
What a question to ask. But they all regarded the filthy adventurer covered in blood. It had splashed his skin, but slid off his robes enchanted for cleanliness. He was covered in sweat and grime, but his robes were pristine. Just like the rapier. The Bell of Challenges didn’t ring as it swung from the rapier’s hilt. Pisces turned and nodded.
“My friend…the [Slave] who was chained up next to me was a Garuda. Cawe. It’s not just because you’re a Garuda. I wish I had been able to free her. You’re all free. I just can’t kill them all, so you’ll have to run. I’m sorry. I’ll try my best.”
Then he leapt out of the wagon. The [Slaves] regarded each other. The promise hung in the air.
I’ll try my best.
Then…the freed [Slave] turned the key and listened to it click. He waited until he’d unlatched every single chain—and they were leaving the wagon. Crying out. Weeping. Asking what happened next. Afraid or relieved or…the Garuda just walked to the edge of the wagon and looked up.
Then he spread his wings and flew into the blue sky.
 
——
 
The first caravan was hard. Hard in how it was fought, but hardest in saying goodbye. Pisces was a flurry of motion the moment he realized they were on a time limit.
“Roshal checks its caravans. This one was nearly at the city. Grab the horses. Grab every weapon you can, and—I don’t know which way to go.”
Then he felt like a murderer, for he had no escape route planned. He’d been so focused on this—but the Garuda whom he’d freed first had a thought.
“The Ekhot Straits. No one lives there. Or perhaps the Devilt Foothills. Even a city, should we get far enough.”
“They’ll ask if we are escaped [Slaves] at the gates—”
“Only on entry. And if you were taken before they reached a full Guild, you won’t be on the registers, perhaps. If we leave Nerrhavia’s Fallen, only Roshal will have us on lists.”
“Those are too far. We’ll never make it—”
That despairing comment came from a Stitch-man. But a chorus of voices silenced him.
“We must try. At worst, we split up after this. If we pose as travellers, with clothing, coin—”
There was a chance. But for the moment, the irony was that the [Slaves] had to get in the same wagons they had been freed from.
No longer chained, but they had no other conveyance. Pisces ordered his skeletons to strip the [Slavers]. The work was simple; he scavenged armor and weapons off the dead for the Skeleton Champions to re-arm.
Not the best gear. He took several enchanted swords off the Skeleton Champions and handed them to the freed [Slaves]. They needed them more.
“Divide it amongst yourselves. Coin—the [Merchant] had some, surely.”
“Her chest. It’s trapped. But I saw how she used the key.”
One of the other [Slaves] volunteered. Pisces saw the Garuda standing on the wagon.
“If you fly, you can keep away from pursuers. Split up if you must; I don’t know if they’ll scry you…”
“Perhaps, but there are Skills and scrolls against it. You’re warded from scrying?”
Pisces had a ring that Ceria had insisted the team get, but the thought of each [Slave] being hunted down—
“I’m sorry. I don’t have anything else prepared.”
It was the tenth time he said it, and the Garuda smiled down at him.
“You freed us.”
“Won’t you come with us, Scourge? If you did and brought us to the straits or to your people—”
One of the former [Slaves] began, but Pisces was glancing over his shoulder. He hesitated, and his face twisted up, but he shook his head.
“I can’t. I am so sorry, but—I have to go.”
He was staring at something only he could see. One of his mice…the [Slaves] saw him point.
“Another caravan is headed towards the city.”
It took them a moment to realize what he meant. Then they all sat forwards.
“You mean to strike Roshal again?”
Pisces turned and realized they had no notion of his plans. He gestured, aimlessly, as the Skeleton Champions finished repairing themselves. More bodies were arising, now. Naked, mostly. Eyes glowing. Zombies. A few Ghouls.
“I cannot free the [Slaves] in the city.”
Again, the massed people glanced at each other to try and divine what he meant. One spoke.
“…Halqued?”
“Yes.”
Lareceina was right. Hexata was correct. In that city, Yisame’s people kept law and order. An attack on the city was an attack on her. Outside the city…
There were no witnesses. And if there were, so what? The Scourge of Roshal wore Pisces’ face. Everyone knew that, but Pisces was also sure it was a face that Bearig had adopted. A way to disguise the [Rebels].
The ‘Scourge’ has simply hit another caravan. That was the flimsiest pretext he had, but…it was a madman’s plan. Pisces half-turned.
“I have to go to intercept it. If you need other places to go, north…east would be good. Though help would be at least a hundred miles away, likely more. Tiqr is even further, and I do not know this region. Again, I’m…”
A skeleton horse was rising as the undead began to move. First shuffling steps—then he pointed, and the zombies began to jog. Then run, arms pumping, organs glistening. The [Slaves] saw him turning, and then there was a feeling.
Not just them. Not just one act and desperation. If he meant more—
“They’d send out riders after us instantly. Scry us and post bounties on each one. But hundreds? Thousands?”
“He’s mad. Mad as they say. Was it just one of him versus every [Guard] and Throsa herself?”
Whispers. The Garuda saw Pisces getting on the horse with the curious saddle. He called out.
“Scourge!”
Pisces turned, and the Garuda lifted a wing-arm.
“Luck. If I return to Qualvekkaras, I will speak your name and Cawe’s to the winds themselves. Or any Garuda I meet.”
The [Necromancer] called back.
“Your name. What is it?”
“Josiever.”
The connected gaze lingered as Pisces began to ride. Then it broke. When he turned and rode ahead, he didn’t look back, at least, not until he was a distant speck. As if he were ashamed, perhaps. Embarrassed.
Free, in a moment. The [Slaves] gazed down at the blood in the wagons. Their captors ran, a shambling horde, dead—and there might have been that anger. Hot and bright for the way it was too easy.
Like a Djinni coming down a minute too late to break chains so easily. After so long, for some of them. Too easy. Why had no one done it?
Then they turned and saw him riding now, a speck. Just one man. No Djinni of Demons, no legend.
“I’ll try my best.”
Gooseflesh rose on Josiever’s arms, under his feathers. He spread his wings and leapt into the air, hesitating until he realized those chains were gone.
Never again. Then he was flying up—up—every cell in his body screaming in relief. But craning his head to see that figure moving. And if he had a regret…
It was that Pisces hadn’t asked Josiever to join him. But then, the Garuda wondered…who could keep up with the Bane of Roshal? The original had come back to Chandrar, and now he was free of his team, of his obligations. He had been a fine figure on the scrying orb, in the palace; they had all seen broadcasts of him despite their master’s dislike of him.
Now, though…
He appeared truly passionate.
 
——
 
His plan was insane. It was only working right now because they didn’t know what he was doing. The element of surprise was going to run out by the second caravan—let alone the third.
But they were on the roads. Unless they turned around—and even if they did—it was hard to hide that many people. Going off-road was nigh-impossible unless the [Slavers] had enchanted wheels. They’d run into monsters or just get lost.
And he had a map detailing where each one was. He just needed to kill them all. Hundreds of [Slave Guards]…
Yes, a madman’s plan. But Pisces had to do it. If he did, no one could buy or sell that girl. There was no…ending to this that went well. He knew that too. It didn’t matter.
He rode, and the horde of undead he’d summoned was the first, the largest—when he looked back and saw them running after him, he had an image in his head.
Feren. Gewilena. Ama. His first coven of [Necromancers], cheering a group of zombies led by a Ghoul. He saw in the undead the same horde attacking Liscor and Erin’s inn.
All the evils of my class. Then he blinked and saw the dead [Slavers]. He didn’t know what Erin would say. But he knew what he needed.
He had never summoned a horde of undead and controlled them himself. It was…unsettlingly easy. And alarming. Pisces didn’t have individual control over the undead. That was the worrying part. They might well revert back to their natural instincts and attack anything living. Twice, when he stopped to orient himself, he saw a zombie try to dig up a snake or something in the ground. But Pisces could easily correct one undead.
It was like a herd of sheep. He could move them around in a mass. And then just send them at, well, a target. Terrifyingly dangerous.
He kept a firm grip on the Skeleton Champions. They were now fully armored and armed, albeit with unenchanted gear. Pisces wished he’d kept some enchanted weapons—but the [Slaves] needed them.
Do without. Now that he had sixty-odd undead, he had a fighting force, albeit a naked one to back up the Skeleton Champions. But Pisces had a problem. He considered it as he rode; the undead horse didn’t need to slow, and it rode flawlessly for him.
I need to hit the other caravan fast. If I can ambush them the same way, I will, but word may have spread. I’ll see. I wish I could intercept spells like Az’kerash did for me. 
Either way, he’d flood forwards with the zombies and Ghouls—let the Skeleton Champions pick out targets. Go for the leadership and high-level [Guards]. He’d also play it safer; one blow to the head and he was dead.
He should have gotten a damn helmet. Personal barrier spells like Yvlon’s ring! He’d keep invisible and minimize risk.
That was the benefit of the undead horde as well; Pisces realized they were generating death-mana. He was recharging rapidly.
[Drain Death Mana]. He tried it on a zombie, and it collapsed and actually turned to ash as he yanked out enough mana for a half-dozen [Deathbolts]. From one zombie?
The rest seemed to run faster in response. Not from fear; the death magic was invigorating them. So Pisces might be able to cast even more spells, despite having used a mana potion in the previous battle. And his Skills would have recharged…
His problem was singular. He could adjust his strategy. Plan on the fly when he saw the second caravan’s numbers and disposition, though he was no Colth—but he had a crippling weakness.
“Aim.”
During the last battle, Pisces had missed several spells. Especially at the final moment when he’d been duelling the [Caravan Leader]. Deathbolt was a Tier 4 spell; it wasn’t as costly as some, but he couldn’t afford to miss with it.
The problem was that Pisces was no Ceria Springwalker, who’d been trained for the better part of a year by a known sharpshooter spellcaster, Illphres. He remembered laughing at her having to get up daily to practice shooting targets by the surf.
Now Pisces would have given anything for that practice. He was a decent shot when stationary, but when moving? Ceria was an actual deadeye given how little she missed.
Pisces flexed his left hand’s finger. Could he correct that aim somehow? He tried. He reduced the mana in his finger and conjured a spell he’d deemed useless for the first battle.
Lighted Arrow. Not [Light Arrow], but the freeform casting version of it. Functionally the same spell, but customizable. In this case, he reduced the amount of light magic in it to almost nothing. He kept it bright, fast—and fired it from his finger.
It shot into the dirt and didn’t even shift the sand. Pisces wondered if it could kill a fly. Well, perfect. He fired five and guessed it was five per one [Light Arrow], already a Tier 1 spell.
Perfect; he could breathe and almost regenerate mana faster. He rode and began shooting the arrow nonstop at everything he could see.
Rocks, cacti, a bounding rabbit, more rocks—his Skeleton Champions—
Pisces started shooting one of his Skeleton Champions in the skull nonstop, or trying to. It kept pace with his horse, so it was actually the best target. He ignored its reproachful stare and cursed after about ten minutes of practice.
“This isn’t ideal.”
He was missing about 60% of the time! The skeleton horse wasn’t that smooth, but at even twenty paces, Pisces had terrible aim. True, they were both moving targets…but Pisces quickly realized the issue wasn’t just his aim. It was more technical still.
There were a lot of good reasons for Pisces to free-cast with his bare hands. It was adaptive, surprised foes, he was used to it—but the reason Ceria favored a wand was because it was a non-flexible rod. Even if not all wands were straight, she knew exactly how long it was and the trajectory it formed.
Pisces had a finger. He liked his forefinger, he thought he knew it well, but it was a finger.
Each section of bone moved with his muscles. If he pointed it straight, it would vary slightly in position each time he did it, despite his best efforts. If he were some kind of supreme…[Monk] he might be able to control it so finely, but that variance meant that he was inevitably going to miss.
Especially when a slight wavering would lead to a lot of error over distance. Pisces hunted around.
“Where is it? Delitandra just had me practicing with…aha!”
He finally yanked out the wand that was a replacement for Mrsha’s favorite chew toy and tried some spellcasting with it. His aim improved…but Pisces felt weird holding it. And he still missed three in ten shots. Nor was it calibrated to amplify death magic, just a cheaper wand some [Mage] in the Coliseum of Monarchs had owned.
He didn’t have time for this. By his calculations, he was already halfway towards intercepting the second caravan. Pisces cursed. But for the Heromakers of Hraace—! If ever he needed Delitandra to come running over with a suggestion, it was now.
Defeat spurs one towards training. She was right about that, only his motivation was failing to do what he had to. Pisces’ mind raced.
How do I correct my aim? If I miss, I could hit a [Slave]. I don’t know how to curve my magic, even if I thought I could correct a [Deathbolt] mid-flight. Colth could do it if he were here…
Think, fool! He closed his eyes and tried to remember the other [Mages] he’d seen. Eldavin came back to him. He’d told Pisces to concentrate his magic, and he’d been right. But he’d had superb casting.
Montressa hadn’t been that accurate, nor Palt, to his memory. The [Illusionist] had preferred to just fill the air with [Light Arrows]. Courier Salamani did the same thing. It was hard to make sure a spell landed on target; that was why other kinds of magic like [Fireball] were so appealing. Pisces’ aim with his rapier was a million times better at range, but he couldn’t rely on it.
…Or could he? Pisces remembered he could bind spells to the tip of the rapier. He imagined him shooting spells with the rapier as an extended wand. It almost sounded viable to him until he remembered the point of his free hand was to do the casting.
“It has to be free-handed. So how…?”
He thought of another [Mage] and hesitated. Wait a second. Viceria had great aim from practicing with Wailant, allegedly naked. Larracel used homing spells, but you know who didn’t have great aim?
Archmage Valeterisa. And she was a seasoned Wistram duelist. In fact, in fact, he recalled Montressa talking about her famous trip to Fissival with Valeterisa. Dead gods, he’d seen her casting magic. Not her fighting, but there was that recording of that Mage Lord Ascoden…using a spell Valeterisa had invented.
[Valeterisa’s Overly Complicated Seekers]. Pisces had heard it maligned as difficult, but the Drake had used it to fire off a lot of spells at targets even hiding behind walls. The problem was…it was very hard to cast. It had a windup time, which meant you couldn’t use it in a fight.
Also, he didn’t know the spell, and he wasn’t going to learn it in less than an hour on horseback without a spellbook teaching it. However, the concept stuck with him.
Valeterisa’s spell isn’t an attack spell. You can’t hurt anyone with it. It’s light magic that bounces around until it finds what you want. Like a guide. Now, he didn’t know it, but a thought occurred to him as he eyed the Skeleton Champion he’d used as target practice.
It was the faintest bit sooty on its forehead where he’d hit it with the weak Lighted Arrow spell. But Pisces didn’t even feel the strain of hitting it, what, three hundred times? He could alter the Lighted Arrow spell as much as he wanted.
It was not a useful spell in a life-or-death fight. Unless he could fire about fifty in one go, [Deathbolt] was far, far stronger. Even at ‘max strength’, Pisces’ Lighted Arrow was pretty much like Ceria putting a wooden box on her hand and punching you as hard as she could in the face with it. Surprisingly painful, but compared to, say, [Deathbolt]…no.
But he could alter the spell. What if…Pisces aimed his finger back at the Skeleton Champion. It sighed. He shot it in the head with a glowing arrow of light.
Yeah, yeah. Doesn’t h—
“[Deathbolt].”
Pisces shot the Skeleton Champion through the head, and its green eyes blazed. It actually sped up like it was under a [Speed] spell for a second, then slowed down. It gave him a second look as the other Skeleton Champions’ jaws dropped.
Do me, do me! They saw Pisces eye his finger, then smile.
 
——
 
Five more [Deathbolts] later, three Skeleton Champions were happy. Pisces…not.
“It’s still not working.”
His idea was simple—fire a guiding arrow to see where his [Deathbolt] was going to land, then follow it up when he saw the ‘guide’ arrow land.
It was a good idea, right?
Wrong. In the time it took for him to fire the guide-arrow, his target could still move or he could shift. The [Necromancer] was almost about to give up on the concept—he had to prepare for battle. Then he had one more thought.
Hm. Here was a question for you: his spell. Lighted Arrow. Why did it have to be…an arrow? A projectile?
For the purposes of being an arrow, sure, it was essential to compress the mana and fire it out. A ray spell was far more mana-intensive and required shaping of magic he wasn’t up to in his book. But if he just projected light-mana constantly, narrowed the focal point from his finger…
He’d seen Ryoka Griffin cast a variant of this spell herself. She had made the [Flashlight] and [Flashbang] spells with her own rudimentary knowledge of magic that he still used in combat. Lareceina had been self-taught, and she was more deadly than most Wistram [Mages] he could name.
There was no spell for what Pisces wanted. It was a Tier 0 magic…he concentrated, frowning. Just enough to see by. Reduce the force to zero. Yes, otherwise he’d burn out all the mana trying to make the projection solid…
Something flashed from the tip of his finger. He blinked at it—then pointed. The Skeleton Champions eyed their master’s new magic.
They didn’t get it. They might have Pisces’ [Duelist Instincts], but all they saw was…a thin ray of light. The width of a piece of chalk, really. Then even thinner. It shot from Pisces’ finger, straight as, well, a beam.
He pointed it at the ground. Shone it on a Skeleton Champion’s forehead.
For reasons they didn’t get, he started laughing. Laughing like a madman. Then he combed his hair, and his face still had some dried blood on it. His eyes focused, and they felt it too.
A kind of…sharpness. Like the blades they carried. He hadn’t felt this sharp except when he’d called them to kill those other [Slavers]. Except at sea.
They liked it. Because Pisces took this spell, which Lareceina might have invented if she’d needed to—something Earthers would come up with because their world had done it all, seen it all, invented every damn thing—
And then he improved it again because he needed to.
 
——
 
The second caravan was known as ‘The Speedy Servant’. It was less…trendy than the Blessed Chains. Not as high-class. Nor did it have fancy, painted wagons to carry its slaves.
Their master had them march along in lines. Why bother pampering them when they needed to get toughened up? It increased their [Slave] class. To that end, Master Khormez actually gave them ropes and connected them only by the manacled hands. They had to run, and if one tripped, it was a damned problem.
Naturally, that meant more risk. But he chained them up at night, and to prevent problems, he ran with a far heavier guard than the Blessed Chains’ caravan had.
About a hundred [Guards] to watch what could be up to a thousand [Slaves] when times were flush.
Times were not that flush, and he had only six hundred, despite having gone all the way to the coast and back. Khormez was highly annoyed, but one of the kingdoms he liked to frequent, Alka dez Vrent, a former Terandrian colony gone to ruin and corruption, wasn’t open for business.
It was a poor nation with a lax monarchy and governance, ideal for him to pick up deals and mass-cargo. However, word was that Alka dez Vrent was no longer safe. It had a new ruler no one dared speak of, who murdered everyone who crossed him.
Even [Slavers], potentially. The Guild had marked it as a no-go zone while they investigated and saw what the new rules were. So Khormez had lost profits.
First that, then the sightings of the Scourge on the eastern edge of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, so he’d avoided that—then the actual Horns of Hammerad flying in on a damn carpet! He’d almost spit blood when he heard they were ahead of him, but other adventurers had chased them off.
He’d light incense for Wildcard and Torreb’s daughter at the Guild, see if he didn’t! Even if he was a notorious [Skinflint Slavemaster]—what was good for business mattered. What had Khormez’s teeth on edge was a [Message] he’d received from the Guild.
At cost. They had burnt up one of his [Message] scrolls, and they never apologized, even when it was just an update about weather or traffic. But he tolerated it because this had been an update.
The Blessed Chains hadn’t appeared at their destination, the same city he was bound for. He forgot the name; it was a Hemp-forsaken place, this run. Were the Mad Ones around here? Bah, he would just unload whatever was profitable, take whatever wasn’t broken, and head on.
That was how he made a living. But the Guild monitored every caravan and their business. Often, they pried too much, but if the Blessed Chains hadn’t made it…?
Perhaps they’d thrown an axle. Perhaps they’d found someone and were doing business. But perhaps it was trouble. The Guild had sent someone to check it out. So Khormez was wary.
He didn’t have a Skill to detect attacks. But his [Guards] were used to fights. Khormez himself was a big man whose whip was coated with venom that could put any man down. He liked to let new [Slaves] think they had an advantage, unchain them, then hit them with the whip. Once he had them pliable, he chose his favorites among the lot. In time, he’d upgrade his caravan. He didn’t see the need to stop making the [Slaves] run, but if he had a Djinni—the Guild sold them at extortionate rates, but they’d go cheaper if you were high-ranking or had a patron.
Then he’d be a true Master of Roshal.
Khormez rode his tired camel, head on a swivel. Foot traffic was clearing out as they passed a crossroads. He took note of such things…this was a trade road. But suddenly, even single riders weren’t appearing on the road ahead of him.
That often meant trouble. Khormez spat and snapped at a guard.
“Look sharp. Someone ride ahead and figure out why no one’s about!”
They rode ahead and, after a few tense minutes, came galloping back.
“Master Khormez—I caught a man on horseback. Here, here!”
He was tugging a fellow over. The reluctant rider protested.
“I have to be going—”
“Just tell him what you told me!”
The Stitch-man pointed over his shoulder.
“There’s a damned horde of undead coming this way! Dozens of zombies! Everyone ahead is moving away from it! You’ll want to ride fast; I got around it, but you won’t! There’s Ghouls amongst them!”
Khormez’s skin tingled, and he shuddered.
“Damned undead! First the Oresects, now this! What good is Nerrhavia’s Fallen if it can’t even upkeep the trade roads?”
The man was a native of the kingdom and frowned mightily, so Khormez adopted an insincere smile.
“That is…I am sure the Golden Hordes will deal with it. In time.”
Perhaps that was the reason for the Blessed Chain’s delay. Khormez halted the caravan as the rider nodded at him and rode on fast.
A few dozen undead versus his guards weren’t that dangerous…though Ghouls would be threats. But each hurt guard was money from his pocket, let alone the helpless merchandise.
“We’ll head down the road. Find some other fools and travel together; if we need to, they’ll bear the brunt of the fighting. The local garrison should sally out to deal with them. We’re close enough.”
The [Guards] were all in agreement. They were turning the [Slaves] when Khormez was struck by two thoughts.
One—the Guild hadn’t harassed him about undead on the road. They always did for the slightest monster attacks, even Sand Slimes. Perhaps the horde had just appeared.
Perhaps, but wasn’t a certain [Necromancer] said to have been around here? He had left, though…the Guild had sent him a message to that effect. 
But that was two oddities. Khormez didn’t fear the so-called Scourge of Roshal. He’d had it on good authority from other [Slavers] who’d run into the legend that it was just a face the [Rebels] sewed onto their leaders to instill fear. Though the real man…
Khormez felt his shoulders prickle, hard. He hunched his body up, glancing around, and saw, suddenly, how empty this road was.
Utterly.
It made sense from one direction…but someone should have outridden Khormez’s slower caravan from behind. Yet that [Rider] was first to come down the road from the other direction.
Why, then, was his caravan alone? It was almost as if…something was scaring traffic away from behind Khormez. Like, say, the sighting of more undead.
Ping! Khormez jumped and slapped a hand to his side. Another disposable [Message] scroll. He’d save a fortune if he invested in a permanent one, not bled for each expendable—
He read the note slowly.
 
Guild Update: Monster sightings. Skeletons sighted on the road behind The Speedy Servant. Numbers reported as less than a dozen. Potentially armed. Updates forthcoming; the local garrison has been alerted.
 
Behind. Skeletons. Khormez’s head snapped up. He wheeled his horse around, stood up in the stirrups, and began to bellow.
“All hear me and obey! Prepare to ride north at speed! We are cutting through the undead and reaching the city! Lash the slaves; they will run or suffer! [Run, Worthless Slaves]!”
His guards began to protest. Khormez pointed down the road, trying to explain his sudden intuition.
“It’s an ambush! I th—”
He swore he saw something flash at him in the fading light. Khormez blinked, twist—
The [Deathbolt] hit him in the chest. He went white. Swayed in his saddle, and his vision greyed out. The [Guards] stared at him. They half-turned.
“Spell—that was a sp—”
He felt like throwing up. Khormez was falling. He felt his heart stopping. And then…he saw it. He looked down at his chest as he began to topple over.
Oh.
There was a beam of light on his chest. A beautiful, pale one of a color he had no words for. Why had he not—
The second [Deathbolt] hit him, and the [Slave Master] struck the ground. Then, when he rose, already a Ghoul, he could see it clearly.
 
——
 
The final aspect to Pisces’ laser-trick was this: death magic. A beam of light was noticeable. Anyone who saw it on them would guess what Pisces was doing. So…why let them see it? He’d practically heard Colth muttering that.
Pisces couldn’t make a light he couldn’t see; Ksmvr might have been able to. But he’d given it some thought and realized there was a way to create a light most people couldn’t see if they weren’t [Mages].
Magic. And if you were going to go that far, why not death magic, which was a unique element few non-[Necromancers] were familiar with?
He’d still had to wait for the man he assumed was the leader to stop moving. The [Deathbolt] wasn’t as fast as he wanted it to be; it was actually slower than Ceria’s [Ice Lance], even. But it was now…very accurate.
Though the [Deathbolt]’s speed was an issue. Which meant the [Slavers] still could avoid the projectile. He’d work on making it invisible and faster—later.
“Charge. Skeleton Champions—wait for the zombies to hit them before entering the fray.”
Pisces whispered. He was lying on his stomach on a dune, and he watched the battle begin without exposing himself instantly. This time…he used strategy.
The [Slavers] were already panicking with the death of their leader. No sooner had they hacked down the newly-animated Ghoul than the zombies and Ghouls appeared. And they were outnumbered by the hundred-some [Guards], who had Skills and weapons.
The zombies were naked. But here was a factor the [Slavers] hadn’t been prepared for:
The zombies were running.
Most people didn’t know zombies ran. It took more death mana—or the presence of a Crypt Lord—to make them sprint. Pisces didn’t work with flesh-based undead normally.
He made an exception. The zombies ran at the [Slavers], who again tried to form a defensive formation around the [Slaves]. Pisces directed the onslaught from above as he watched the Skeleton Champions running towards the rear.
“Ghouls—the riders. Don’t kill the horses, spook them.”
He made the zombies split; instead of coming in a rough wedge towards the center of the living, which they wanted to do, they began to encircle the [Slavers]. They were just there to get in the way. A [Rider] trying to break around the horde was watching the running zombies and never saw the tensed figure until the Ghoul jumped and took them off the saddle. Then the Skeleton Champions moved into the fighting.
That’s when the [Slavers] started dying.
Pisces’ Skeleton Champions had never been made to fight multiple foes at once. His Skill was [Undead: Duelist Instincts]. They were specialized at one-on-one combat where even a Level 30 [Warrior] might sweat to see one coming at them.
The average Level 30 [Warrior] might triumph in a duel, but how many of the [Slavers] below were Level 30? Nor were the Skeleton Champions fighting fair. The one with a greatsword was trading cuts with a huge [Slaver], who was matching him with a lead club taking chips across the weapon. They were swinging on each other, going blow for blow, when the club-wielding [Slaver] gasped and half-turned.
One of the Skeleton Champions with daggers had buried its blades in his back. Then the greatsword fell.
No honor. No etiquette. Not for these foes. The Skeleton Champions went hunting for stronger foes. One raised a shield as a [Fireball] blew every zombie around it to pieces. It staggered as a [Mage] pointed at the skeleton still on its feet—
Pisces landed behind the [Mage] and beheaded the caster. His [Invisibility] spell failed as he lost concentration, and there was a cry.
“The—the—”
He was in the center of the [Slavers]’ defensive lines. The [Necromancer] went running at a wall of [Guards] who panicked. Half turned themselves up, and one went down as a Ghoul took them from behind and dragged them into the clutches of the hungry zombies. But the rest were aiming Skills at him—the [Necromancer] ran, and then something rose upwards.
A…slope? He ran up the ramp of bones, which carried him over the heads of the fighting [Slavers] and undead. The [Slaves] saw the [Necromancer] leap—that was how he’d bypassed their lines the first time.
He’d never performed this move on a chaotic battlefield. But Pisces had learned to animate structures in the Trials of Shields. He was a [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur]—and he had needed to get that [Mage].
Necessity. Pisces turned in the air. He saw a cluster of [Archers] aiming at him and pointed at them.
“[Fireball].”
His aim was spot on. Two saw the roiling ball of fire shooting at them and dove away in time to survive the blast. They lay on the ground, stunned, as the undead pressed forwards without their support. And then the [Necromancer] was gone again.
“Yield! We surrender!”
A cry went up as the undead pressed the narrowing lines of [Slavers] back against the [Slaves]. The [Slaves] were clumped together—they were afraid of the undead, even if some of them were smiling. But the zombies did fall back. A pair of snarling Ghouls loped back a step—and the [Slavers] hesitated. A few tossed down their weapons and raised their hands, but then a figure shouldered aside the shorter zombies.
A Skeleton Champion, bones reinforced with Manticore ivory, stepped into place. Thirteen formed a circle around the [Slavers]. The two Ghouls joined their ranks, and the guards realized the zombies were falling back only because the [Necromancer] couldn’t control them if they got past them.
The Skeleton Champions waited. Then a [Deathbolt] flashed out of the fading light and hit one of the [Guards] in the chest. The [Necromancer] reappeared, and the Skeleton Champions advanced.
 
——
 
Easier the second time. All but eighteen zombies had been hacked down, but not a single Skeleton Champion had fallen. This caravan felt weaker than the other one—or maybe it was the lower-level undead.
The [Slaves] were still hard. Freeing them? He just cut the ropes free. But they asked him the same question.
“I…freed a caravan northwest of you. They were headed—”
Pisces hesitated. He didn’t know if he should say.
“I cannot escort you. I’m sorry.”
“But—we’re on foot. This is a trade road. We’ll be caught.”
This group wasn’t nearly as fit as the other. They hadn’t been in great condition, but neither had they been malnourished or visibly injured. Khormez hadn’t bought valuable [Slaves], though. Pisces saw open wounds or odd scars on the Stitch-folk.
It took him a moment to realize it was frayed skin that had been knotted off, leaving warped, puckered scar-tissue. A way to close damaged cloth-flesh if you had no fabric. Worse were the missing limbs, usually arms, or digits. He knew they could sew their limbs back on, but these people…
It did not make him angrier. He didn’t feel…angry. Rather, as he looked over a hundred dead men and women, some of whom he had killed, he felt—
Ah. He wiped at the dried blood on his cheeks, shook some off his robes and rapier, then got to work. He’d think of that later, later.
Just another connection between him and the man he’d used to think was a goal. Az’kerash.
So be it. If he was falling, then today he was diving. So this is what it was like, then…he pushed the thought away. He had dealt with the [Slavers].
But the [Slaves]—
“Sir, we will never make it. Is there no one else? No…route?”
“No.”
He stood there, and the hundreds of men and women moaned.
“You’ve doomed us. They’ll have us killed for betraying our masters.”
One shook his chains at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] looked at a Stitch-man. The figure shrank back behind the others. He looked noticeably better than the others, and he hadn’t been attached to the main slave-lines. Pisces remembered the [Slaves] who had taken Igheriz’s and Hrome’s sides…
His rapier was heavy as he addressed the group.
“You are free, now. I cannot escort you to safety. There are horses, and if you split up, disguise yourselves, you have a chance. Loot the dead for clothing. If you are Stitch-folk, you could change your face. I am sorry. But I can only halt the caravans. There may be help northeast of here or if you go to Tiqr, Pomle.”
Too far. They stood there until he pointed at random. A woman jumped.
“You. Gather what you need. If there’s anyone you trust, form a group. If—”
He almost didn’t say it, but he had let these people out.
“If you wish to remain [Slaves], the city is not far. Go there, but this is your chance. Your only chance, perhaps.”
Uncertainty. The woman Pisces had pointed at was glancing around—but then someone bent down and grabbed the [Slavemaster]’s whip. A young man who bore lash marks on his back. He began to check the man’s bag of holding, and that provoked a flurry of motion.
People began grabbing magical items like bags of holding, fighting over coins. Pisces stopped them from brawling and divided items up, but he was turning. Watching the road.
The undead were keeping travellers away, but after twenty minutes, he thought he could see a cloud of dust headed towards them from the city. He stood on the hilltop and told them to run.
Not all of them did. The [Slaves] scattered, most headed away from the city. Some stood there, waiting to be re-captured.
Well, they’d slow the garrison. Pisces saw more than one figure gazing up at him. Gold-rank adventurer with undead. He wasn’t helping them.
If it were me…
Most have no levels for combat or survival.
It’s a chance.
That was all he told himself. He could not…the [Necromancer] was busy. As the stripped [Slavers] lay there, he spoke one word that made all who heard it shiver.
“Arise.”
 
——
 
Ceria, Ice Squirrel: Heeeey, Pisces. Haven’t heard from you, assuming you’re just enjoying the endless dust. Don’t eat too much. Update on Yv. Etrikah is pretty good—she says Yvlon’s balances are off. Looks like a cure’s not known. Pretty interesting actually; to create it, they take some poor kid and load ‘em up with curatives but keep getting them sick. So whatever magical disease they’ve got is nasty. Bright side? Less Yvlon. Downside? Less Yvlon. She’s under maximum security rest.
Ceria, Ruler of Medain NOT MARRIED: Itkisa’s gotten off with a slap on the wrist. Keep mum about the fights and Tomb. Bit tricky over here. We want to do strategy and planning given circumstances. Thinking we should hit Tiqr…might be a possibility to tie up my stuff and do politics while we’re there. And Zenol. Lots to do.
Ceria, Archmage of Frost: Funny story, Pisces. Your carriage just pulled up. It’s empty. You okay? Obviously, if you’re kidnapped and someone’s reading this [Message] now we’re into hostage negotiations, and I’ve got a Relic-class circlet that makes me smart. Just let me know.
Ceria: Did you hit a caravan outside of that city we were in? I need you to get out of there right now if that is the case, and we can cover it. Answer, Pisces.
Colth: This isn’t a good idea, Pisces. Answer Ceria and meet us at Tyrant’s Rest, pronto.
 
He got all of that when he woke up. He assumed she’d been messaging him throughout the night. [Messages] didn’t have timestamps…at least not the ones he could cast.
He’d forgotten to answer them. Pisces sat up, and he’d been sleeping in another buried bivouac. This time, the sand hadn’t really gotten him, but he’d been safe.
…Mostly because of the undead around him. He was sore, his mana reserves were high, and he felt that mental strain from casting repeatedly—but despite it all, he got up almost trembling with energy.
Nerves, too.
He sent Ceria nothing at first. Pisces was thinking. He hadn’t been clever enough…but it was before dawn, and he was fresher after last night. He’d seen the [Slaves] off in the evening, used some of the zombies to slow down the garrison, and then taken the rest of the undead as far away from the roads as he could.
He’d gotten maybe eight hours of sleep since he’d actually gone to bed early—now he estimated it might be 3 AM. A good time. He got to work fast.
The Skeleton Champions stripped his meager camp as he chewed on some food he’d taken from the dead [Slaver] caravans. Pisces wrote fast on a scroll, then adjusted the spell and handed it to a Ghoul. He concentrated and took firm mental control of it. Then sent it sprinting westwards.
He took quick stock of the rest of the undead as he consulted a map. Pisces had trouble orienting himself in the darkness, but that was what the [Compass] cantrip was for; it pointed you at Wistram, at least, the version he’d learned. Wistram wasn’t north, but with the map that Lareceina had been given, he could orient. So he was going north…he wished he’d tossed down more mice on the roads in prep for today.
Or that he could animate flying creatures. How the hell did you make flying undead? If Pisces killed a bird, he doubted he’d get one flying properly, even if it was left in pristine condition. He had done Face-Eater Moths, but birds were totally different. Skeletons and muscle. He had no practice was the point.
“Another flaw in my studies.”
He was on the skeleton horse’s back and riding fast with the undead running after him within eight minutes of waking. Travel took a long damn time even with the skeleton horse. He had none to waste.
 
——
 
Pisces winged a myna bird after six misses and reanimated it, trying to figure out how to get it to fly. It actually managed a few flaps before it crashed and he had to get another.
He felt bad about that. Flying was very hard. But the nature of zombies meant that birds could fly just like zombies could run; you had the body’s natural muscle memory to draw on. It was then only a matter of giving the bird enough mana and direct control to keep it ‘active’.
Otherwise, it’d just crash. Pisces sent it flying up and lost track of it almost at once.
Keeping a mana-link in the skies was also a lot harder than on the ground. Pisces had once commanded a single bug at range, but that had been with his full focus, and it hadn’t gone nearly as quickly.
The fast-moving bird needed something…he didn’t know what until he read some of the books that Az’kerash had given him.
The answer turned out to be a simple rune you drew in the flesh that acted as a marker for your magic. A dagger would do, and he could trace it under the feathers, then send the bird up.
Scout acquired. Pisces killed two more birds, mainly by having the undead bird chase other flocks of birds up for him to shoot [Deathbolts] at. Other birds reacted to the undead ones like most animals: they either fought or ran, spooked. Mind you, they couldn’t tell another bird was a zombie until they got close…
That left three birds to work on. Two of which Pisces managed to animate to the level of Ghouls. This trick wasn’t even new.
“[Invigorate Corpse].”
That was a spell from when he’d been back in Ailendamus. Pisces hadn’t used it then since Feren had been making Ghouls. Back then, he’d had to cast it with six others to reliably get one. Today?
His first Ghoul-bird couldn’t withstand the death mana he pumped into it and exploded. After he’d wiped the bits off him, he did it more carefully.
A Ghoul myna bird was not a deadly creature, but it flew fast. Very fast. He used one to scout ahead of him. The other one he sent west, after the Ghoul.
This allowed Pisces to expedite the Ghoul-trick. He had it hand off the scroll to the Myna bird, then pulled the death mana from it, killing the regular Ghoul. It was a waste of undead, but it would have gone rogue or attracted attention otherwise.
Pisces had less undead to work with than he wanted. He’d lost almost all the original zombies, but replenished their ranks with about seventy-some zombies and a few Ghouls. No more skeletons; he hadn’t had time to process the bones.
He’d lost nearly a third of the corpses due to a phenomenon he was starting to realize was unique to Chandrar: Stitch-folk didn’t become corpses in the same way.
Oh, they turned into regular dead bodies when they died. They’d rise, dead flesh and stitching rotting—assuming you hadn’t hacked a limb off, in which case it would be cloth.
But there was the problem. If they lost a limb, it was cloth when you animated them. And when a zombie Stitch-person died, something odd happened.
They turned to cloth entirely. So unlike, say, a Human corpse, which you could animate, let ‘die’, then recycle by adding more death magic to it—unless it was completely destroyed—Stitch-folk would turn into shredded and tattered cloth.
…And bits of faintly glowing string.
Lifethread. Pisces had seen the other Stitch-folk [Slaves] blanching when he’d observed the phenomenon, and he didn’t have any idea what to do with the dust or Lifethread. But it meant that his undead force was far less renewable. Smaller, too.
Again, he had no solution here. Just observations. The undead bird was a win enough for the morning.
After three hours of riding, dawn was already breaking, but Pisces felt it was time. He had the distant Ghoul myna bird land, then, with great effort, pull the string he’d attached to the scroll. It finally got the damn thing open, and the [Message] scroll activated.
He did have a few of them, from before he’d known how to cast the spell. Even after, he’d hung onto them in case he was in a situation where he didn’t have the mana to waste. Always be prepared.
“Thank you for buying these, Ksmvr.”
It sent the [Message] spell far, far west from where Pisces actually was, and he saw it enter his conversation on the scroll.
 
Ceria: Just assuming you’re kidnapped still.
Pisces, Lost: What caravan? I’m in Sha-shoba, the City of Spiced Delicacies? The carriage dropped me off somewhere entirely different. I fear it may have been someone else’s. A Merchant Hoben’s? I have been trying to secure transport to Tyrant’s Rest, but my money pouch was pickpocketed, and I was chasing down the perpetrator to regrettable results. And I believe I was taken to be an imposter at the Merchant’s Guild? Highly unfortunate, and securing these dratted carriages is proving to be a conundrum.
 
A pause, and Pisces waited. He didn’t know quite how [Message] spells worked, but he had a good understanding that you could backtrace most of them if you were good at magic.
He wasn’t, but he had anti-scrying and anti-location wards on him. So the only way to tell where he was would be via backtracking where a [Message] spell was sent from.
His thought was that if he had calculated correctly, it would look like he was around that very city. Or at least, in the general region.
Flimsy as cover-stories went, but…after a second, Pisces received another [Message] spell.
 
Ceria: Hah, classic Pisces. Get your butt over here, pronto. I’ll tell Yisame. And bring some spices!
 
She probably didn’t believe him. But that would do.
He rode.
 
——
 
What Pisces didn’t know was that by the end of the first day, the other caravans were well aware…something was going on.
He had guessed, of course. The Slaver’s Guild of Chandrar was directly funded and organized through Lailight Scintillation. Roshal.
It was one of, if not the, most effective organizations in the world. Emir Yazdil’s talent could be said to be reflected here; he had ensured the caravans ran smoothly and reformed them from more lax standards in generations past. The other Slave Lords had made numerous changes to Roshal; in this, they had ceded to him.
For instance, the Slaver’s Guild had a number of departments devoted to various crises. Such as the Kidnapping and Ransoms department. Small, but nearly twenty members of the Guild were on-call to just…answer kidnappings of their membership.
Often, a lot of it was inter-Guild politics, but there were always thugs, bandits, and so on. They didn’t guarantee a member was freed unless they were in good standing. Business was business. But if someone actually answered the ransom note, did some negotiating, or even said, ‘we can’t pay that’, the odds of survival went up by at least 30%.
In the same vein, a substantially larger wing of the Guild was Caravan Crisis—a catchall term for obstacles or attacks on caravans. It monitored the Leashed Trails across all of Chandrar and issued alerts for weather, monster attacks, war, and so on.
It was so vast and important that it had regional headquarters, which in turn coordinated with nations, petitioning them to send out their law enforcement or hire adventurers—if needed, the Slaver’s Guild would do it themselves, but they preferred not to waste coin.
‘Never do what someone else can do for you’ was one of the quotes written in a faded gold plaque above the main headquarters’ doors. Naturally, the operators had [Slaves] for menial tasks, but this was a rare job that required freefolk workers exclusively.
Freeman Chilt was a [Remote Operator], Level 23, in charge of the day-crew for his sub-region in the South Eastern Leashed Trails division of the Caravan Crisis headquarters. One of over a thousand such employees.
It was not a prestigious job, though it paid decently. He had dreams of promotion to Lailight Scintillation, not having to live in the small headquarters in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He enjoyed the two office [Slaves], but resented not having his own. He was a man with plenty of complaints about life, who would consider himself a normal man, like a Drake or Gnoll or anyone else around the world.
Until yesterday, he had never had a crisis too large for his job. Yes, the caravans had trouble all the time. [Slave Masters] were arrogant, touchy, and loved to send [Messages] to complain about things the Guild didn’t have to help them with.
Other [Slave Masters] stealing their earmarked [Slaves]—a matter for another department. Getting in trouble for collaring someone with the Watch? Another department.
The cheap speaking stones and [Message] spells from Wistram just made it worse. Now he was deluged with trivial complaints, and they had an entire person whose job it was to just respond nicely to the pampered idiots. However, Chilt’s job was to monitor the roads, and it had not been hugely stressful.
Sometimes, there were monsters. Sometimes, there were bandits. He’d had entire caravans wiped out from monster attacks. One time, Sand Worms had eaten a caravan of over two thousand.
Tragic, and he’d had to scramble alerts across the entire region. A Named-rank team had been called to hunt them down, but this did not distress Chilt. It was onerous at times, yes, but…he was still sitting in a padded chair as a [Slave] handed him drinks. At worst, he was reporting to a supervisor and sweating before he took out his frustrations on one of the [Slaves]. If the idiots on the Leashed Trails died, well, it looked bad if he hadn’t done his job, but that was their life. All risk, all reward, eh?
Today was different. Today, Chilt hadn’t slept. Grime from greasy food had left a patina across his unshaven face. His eyes were sleep-deprived and wanted to close, but the stamina potion mixed into his tea had given him the runs and nervous energy.
“Hello? Hello to Honored Slave Master Kitre? This is Operator Chilt of the Guild. Caravan Crisis—checking in.”
He was rasping into a speaking stone as an upset woman snapped back.
“Blessed sands, I have been on hold for twenty minutes! You incompetents, what is going on? And it is Slave Mistress, fool!”
He bit back a short reply; he’d done this for the last four hours.
“Standby, Slave Mistress. We pray your indulgence in this most-stressful of times. Please report your caravan’s condition and any notable incidents on the road—”
“Standby? You have had us standing by all night and into the dawn! If there is a monster, say so! But I have had to halt while—”
He didn’t have time for this. There were four other caravans in the area near the city marked in red on a map, and more would be headed along the road. That was caravans, mind you. There were other interests of Roshal that weren’t even part of this list, and Chilt snapped.
“Slave Mistress, we have declared an all-halt to caravans until we know the fate of two that have vanished, all presumed dead! The Blessed Chains and The Speedy Servant have both vanished close to the city of Halqued! We presume monster attacks or—or a creation of the Mad Ones or something else!”
One caravan was bad enough, but both had been decently large, and neither one had sent out a distress call. There had been no survivors. This was not in itself odd.
The scary part was that there had been no bodies. Halqued was not exactly filled with ultra-efficient members of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. When the Guild had finally cajoled the local garrison to check, they’d found the wagons only after hours of searching. The first caravan not reaching the city had been enough for Chilt to issue one of these warnings to others in the area.
He hadn’t thought much of it other than being annoyed at the delay of The Blessed Chains and expecting the Slave Mistress in charge to give him an explanation in an hour and having to do paperwork.
Then the second caravan, The Speedy Servant, had gone missing. Undead had been spotted near them, but not enough to…
The Guild’s internal systems had ways to deal with unexpected events like these. In this situation, Chilt had to call an all-halt to every caravan on the road headed into a dangerous region and find out what was going on.
The problem was…the local garrison had found nothing. No bodies, again. No wagons. They had been delayed hacking up some zombies, and when they’d gotten there, they’d discovered nothing.
Well, there had been [Slaves], but those didn’t count. The useless things had all given mixed accounts of what had happened, so Chilt had tossed those out as contradictory—unreliable. Given how many had run off, they were probably lying to protect any runaway [Slaves], but it meant that until one was interrogated properly, he wasn’t allowed to use their testimony.
And Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s stupid [Soldiers] had just claimed them as their property! The Guild was having an advocate deal with that, but it might be days of negotiating for them. What it meant was that there were two caravans, both wiped out in short periods of time with no reliable witnesses.
Nor had Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s garrison thought to bring [Trackers]; it had been lazy Hemp [Soldiers] searching for a fight and nothing else. The flaw in relying on local governance. So the Slaver’s Guild had Chilt arranging for adventurers to cover the shortfall…
Hence him being up; it was his head on the line if he didn’t figure out what was going on. Chilt snarled as the [Slave Mistress] gave him a lashing with her tongue. He thrust out a cup at a frightened [Slave], who took it and rushed off. The lazy idiots got rotated through his headquarters, and they were never high-level or attractive…
“Slave Mistress, Slave Mistress, I have other caravans to check on! Please report your status.”
He took some satisfaction in cutting her off. Chilt stared at the board as a weary co-worker tacked something onto it. It was scrawled notes in messy ink as the team put down conclusions.
 
Caravans missing. Undead attack?
No confirmed hordes. Horde spotted? Possibility of rogue [Necromancer].
Bane? Confirmed to be heading for Tyrant’s Rest. Idiot.
Theories: Sandworms, [Rebels], [Bandits]—Merr the Storm in region? Mad Ones?
 
Slave Mistress Kitre was a Fox Beastwoman, a rarity in Chandrar. Chilt was lowly compared to her, but he took his revenge as he pleased. Mostly by finding a glamorous headshot of her and unlacing his trousers to touch himself while he worked.
A female co-worker at another desk gave him a disgusted look he ignored. Certain standards in the Guild were made lax because of who they were.
The woman’s voice was waspish as Chilt closed his eyes, imagining putting a collar on her.
“As requested by the Guild, I have halted my caravan. We are dug in along the road; I have selected a small hill and formed a barricade here. We have sentries watching for miles. No hazards detected save for road traffic.”
He had a list of things she was supposed to do and sighed.
“Fortifications? The Guild recommends—”
“Do not talk to me about my job, little man. I have, with my [Slave Mages], deployed [Sand Wall] spells. My wagons are ready to roll if an attack comes. I have posted expendable [Guards] on watch duty, and I am armed with no less than fifty snap-fire crossbows. My wagons have enchanted hulls with Tier 3 [Incendiary Burst] spells.”
That was better than most caravans her size. Chilt had to admit, most caravans wouldn’t have fortified nearly that well. Much less had enchanted wagons.
“If you encounter trouble, Slave Mistress—”
“If I encounter trouble, I will hit them with magic and leave. I can outrun most threats, but I demand to know what is out there! Give me your name, you lazy scut!”
She was really making it hard for him to attain climax. Chilt glared as he bit off a reply.
“Potentially undead, Slave Mistress. I am Operator Chilt, and I am dutifully serving as best I may. If you have complaints—”
“What kind of undead? How many?”
“Standby, Slave Mistress. I shall contact you in a few minutes—”
“You little—”
He hung up on her and knew he might pay for that. But Chilt was angry and stressed. Something was out there, and no one had answers. He peered around to find a [Slave] to finish the job his hand wasn’t doing, but the one with his tea had vanished.
So he dialed another [Slave Master] up and had a variant of the same conversation. This time, the nervous man had a theory.
“Is it…the Bane? Have there been attacks? I’d know if there were, but I heard he was in the city.”
Chilt glanced at the map again and tried to be soothing, though his erection was really bothering him since this fellow was not doing it for him.
“Sir, the Bane has already left! And such things are usually loud and noticeable, are they not? Standby, and I will contact you—”
He was noting this all down on a piece of paper that was going to his superiors. The regional office had noted the two caravans likely missing, and so Manager Labrito was demanding results. He was not a fun man to report to, and Chilt was worried about that.
He was almost done with the report and hoping he could clock out to let someone, anyone, deal with this until he realized he hadn’t gotten a vital piece of information from Slave Mistress Kitre. It was an empty box noting ‘outstanding grudges’ you had to get information on.
They cast [Detect Truth] on every report he filed, so if he left it blank, Labrito would kill him. Chilt fondled himself as he waited for her to pick up and lambast him again. At least he could…
“Slave Mistress Kitre? Hello? This is—hello?”
He tried three times, growing more and more frustrated each time. It had barely been eleven minutes and the damned woman was ignoring him? He hesitated, then hit a specific command spell that force-activated her speaking stone from the Guild.
He wasn’t supposed to do it except in emergencies, but he loved the power over the [Slave Masters] who in turn did not like having a window into their private affairs. Chilt spoke briskly.
“Apologies, Slave Mistress, but I—”
Then he heard something that made his annoyance, his sleep-deprived state all vanish from his mind. It was…a wet sound.
A gurgling gasp. Scuffling. A cry—and then the thump of something. Wet. That was the only word for it. Chilt spoke.
“Hello? Slave M—”
Gasping. Quiet, terrified gasping. Someone breathing in and out, then—
“Quiet.”
Her voice. He hesitated. His co-worker looked up from her desk, and Chilt realized something was off.
“Slave Mistress, wh—”
“They’re invisible. They’re—”
Her voice was so quiet he could barely hear it. Then there were other sounds. Someone choking. A scream filled the air, and Chilt dropped the speaking stone. It clattered on his desk, and he heard, then, another voice.
“Help me! Help me! H—”
“No! Not—”
The sounds cut off, but not before an agonized scream filled the air, and then there was a ripping sound. The crack of—
Chilt had once seen a man break bones when a piece of masonry on a house landed on him. That horrific sound was echoed here. Then—more gouging sounds. The snap of a crossbow firing. Then silence.
He didn’t say a word as he finally picked up the speaking stone. Chilt heard heavy breathing. Then there was the sound of ripping fabric. A strange sound—a spell firing? A scream.
“You! Y—”
Then nothing. Chilt whispered.
“Slave Mistress…?”
His penis was a limp thing. He sat there, shivering, and heard…footsteps. Then, perhaps, breathing. Chilt whispered.
“Is someone there?”
Abruptly, the speaking stone went dead. He recoiled at the blip of sound that marked the spell being cut. Chilt’s back bounced into his chair, and he was shivering. Gooseflesh rising across his body.
The office had gone dead quiet. Eventually, Chilt’s co-worker spoke.
“That was Kitre’s Kinfolk. The location…where was the location, Chilt?”
He was fumbling with cold fingers. Trying to find where she had reported. Now, that information was vital. Chilt had to warn the other caravans. Protocol was to keep them stationary. But if an attack was coming at them—
He forgot what the manual said. Suddenly, he needed it. He had to tell his manager. He—
Chilt began to fumble for all these things at once as the spell broke and the office lurched into motion. Operators picked up speaking stones and began to speak urgently. Chilt himself had a glowing scrying orb thrust at him by the [Slave].
“Manager Labrito. Lace up your pants, fool.”
One of his co-workers hissed at him. Chilt stumbled into a side-room to explain. Then he almost ran back to his desk. But he didn’t have answers. Just…
That was the third caravan. When the fourth one went dead, they knew. Then, Chilt was being told to re-direct all calls to the regional office. That Manager Labrito and a team of specialists were headed in to see their work via flying carpet.
And when the fifth one vanished—
Then, Chilt was shivering like a man with a cold.
 
——
 
The third caravan was waiting for him. So Pisces once again changed tactics. It seemed too alert, but it was the smallest yet, so he did the most expeditious thing he could: he cast [Invisibility] on the Skeleton Champions and sent them in.
[Invisibility] was a tough spell. It had always been known as a tough spell, even for Tier 4. Plenty of [Mages] never learned it because it had so much nuance to it.
For instance, you had to concentrate a bit to keep it up. Getting hit almost always knocked it out of you. Dust or clouds revealed you, and plenty of [Mages] could only keep invisible until they touched something.
Pisces could do four Skeleton Champions plus himself, and the four would lose it the moment they attacked. Not exactly ideal. If he’d had [Darkness Cloud] or the ability to raise a sandstorm he could have used that.
But what he did have was a unique trick. [Drain Death Mana] and a horde of undead. So, Pisces did this.
He and the Skeleton Champions moved past the [Slavers]’ defenses. They got close as they could to a group of the [Guards], then Pisces cast two spells.
[Muffle] and [Lesser Illusion]. He fixed an image of the camp in place and attacked with the Skeleton Champions. Then, once the fighting was done, recast the spell and advanced.
The trick was he was draining zombies of their mana to fuel this much spellcasting. It was hard. His head hurt, and he got a nosebleed the fourth time he did it. But it worked.
By the time they advanced past the walls, the [Guards] knew they were under attack. This is where it got—harder.
Unlike the other two caravans, this one knew something had been out there. They’d lacked for anti-invisibility spells, but they came out of their defenses and fought—hard.
The first Skeleton Champion went down as a [Power Strike] smashed a skull in. Another exploded, silently, as a Potion of Blast detonated. It overloaded the [Muffle] spell, but the only sound was a brief ‘clap’ as loud as someone smacking their hands together.
Then—silence. By the time other [Guards] were turning, two more Skeleton Champions were moving up, and the onslaught continued.
Pisces had to fight with the Skeleton Champions. He was higher-level, a Silver-bell [Duelist] with his Ring of Shatterbolt versus low-level [Guards] during a surprise attack. They still tagged him.
A blade slashing across his chest. An arrow striking him in the back—twice, the [Necromancer] staggered, then, to the horror of the [Slavers], turned and ran his attacker through. Stalker’s armor. That broke what nerve they had left. They had already been speaking his title like a curse, trying to run.
Three minutes of fighting did not go unnoticed, despite the muffling spells. The magic-users detected the foreign magic, but by that point…
It was too late; Skeleton Champions were marching between the wagons along with the rest of the undead who’d walked past the undefended walls. Then the caravan was trapped.
The [Slavers] had the horses hitched up, ready to go, but the Skeleton Champions had been smashing the wagon tongues, setting them free, and any time a [Slaver] appeared, they had died in seconds.
The [Slavers] had been trying to hide, thinking it was ‘just’ invisible monsters.
Hoping, perhaps, they’d be ignored or the undead would kill the [Slaves] and they could get away. Pisces had gone after the [Slave Master] when he’d heard the speaking stone, worried she’d report…
Well, he didn’t know. He stood in the wagons and told the [Slaves] the same thing. Left before they could argue long because he still had nothing for them. At least this group could take the wagons after re-tying the leads and just…drive.
He’d taken a few items from the Fox Beastkin’s carriage. Pisces stared down at the dead woman and remembered Zirre, Yvlon’s friend, and Etrikah. Strange to see a Fox Beastkin wearing Roshal’s seal on her clothing.
It corrupted everything. He ignored her gold and artifacts and picked up two things from her personal, neat wagon. A healing potion. She’d had two of the now-precious vials; he left the other for them.
The second was a map.
 
——
 
[Slavers] kept tabs on each other as well as on business. The map that Lareceina had gotten for Pisces was rapidly growing out of date as the caravans moved. Only them stopping had kept them even in roughly the same location. Without the myna bird’s eyes from above, Pisces wouldn’t have even found them.
The map helped a lot. This [Slave Mistress] had been very punctilious and clearly had spent a lot on her caravan. The map was another sign of her attitude; it was magical, and the ink reflected, in real-time, weather like rain or sandstorms. Some was blowing across the western cities, but the real value of this map was that it seemed to be synced up to the Slaver’s Guild.
As in, when Pisces stared down at it, he saw, very clearly, another caravan that was a bit south from where Lareceina’s map indicated they might be. And, in fact, the woman’s own caravan was marked here; only, someone had drawn a huge red haze across this entire region and marked it as ‘Potential Danger’.
So the Guild was aware her caravan had been hit and was letting the other caravans know. They, in turn, were reporting their positions to the Guild. The flaw being that the Guild was handily updating the other [Slavers] on where everyone was.
Very useful. Pisces suspected no one had used this potential loophole in the Slaver’s Guild’s systems for a while. He started riding.
 
——
 
The fourth caravan had lots of camels. It seemed to have come from the north. It had war prisoners from Reim, no less. The King of Destruction’s fighting…the [Slavers] were the best fighters yet.
They were dicing up the zombies and calling alarms as they watched the Ghouls and Skeleton Champions closing in. Their nerves were frayed already, though; they knew they were in jeopardy, but they were—prepared.
One of them beheaded a Ghoul trying to sneak up on the back lines. Anti-invisibility spells. And they had [Slaves] being forced to fight in front of their masters…the undead had to hold still as they were run through. All the while, the shouting caravan kept trying to break free, ride on through the undead.
They’d known he was coming. Pisces was chasing down riders who broke away from the fighting, fleeing into the distance. He had to let them go and focus on the [Slaves]. The entire caravan was pushing at the zombies, and he saw they were almost out—
Then the Bone Horror ran into their camp on eight horse legs, the three-headed monstrosity braying as it reached down and began to slash with bone claws at everything it saw. It trampled three of them, refused to die when they blasted it with magic and enchanted arrows, and bit an [Archer]’s head off.
The camels had been willing to kick and bite the undead, but the sight of the Bone Horror made them fall into a terrified retreat, trying to flee rather than run forwards. The [Slavers] turned with cries of horror, attacking the huge monstrosity galloping through their lines. They were so focused on that they didn’t see Pisces amidst them until he’d killed eleven of them.
Then their nerve broke. Not just because Pisces attacked them with the new Bone Horror he’d made; he’d found a bunch of bones belonging to a pack of Needlehounds and used them for this.
No, this was the first time the [Slaves] fought too. Several [Soldiers] had grabbed one of the [Slavers] who’d run into them and killed the guard, then unshackled themselves. He’d nearly killed them when he’d seen them—
“We will take these folks back to Reim, Necromancer. The way is long, but we’ll strip this lot for armor. Rest assured, the King of Destruction will remember this.”
This was the easiest of meetings. A scarred [Lieutenant] had saluted Pisces, one-eyed, a grinning Dullahan. The [Necromancer] hadn’t asked how she’d joined Flos Reimarch’s war, only nodded.
“If you’d keep it secret, I would be obliged. As for your passage, I regret I cannot help. I owe His Majesty a debt.”
The Reim [Soldiers] were arming themselves rapidly, organizing the other [Slaves]. Some, Pisces realized, weren’t even from Reim. Half were Nerrhavia Fallen’s own [Soldiers], but they were…Hemp. The [Lieutenant] glanced back at them.
“Is that so? Then you’ve paid some of it. Here I thought your team was all at odds with ours. Rest assured if we make it, we’ll tell the story of it to the King of Destruction. And the Rustängmarder.”
They knew of how the Horns had left the King of Destruction’s camp. Pisces just nodded. This caravan hadn’t reported their attack yet. But—
“Slave Master Clomb checking in. Are you here?”
The speaking stone rattled on a dead man’s corpse, and Pisces cursed. But the [Lieutenant] nodded sideways, and one of Reim’s soldiers swept it up.
“This is Head Guard Jecks. The Slave Master, he is resting, yes? I shall report—”
He spoke as Pisces breathed out. That was good. The [Lieutenant] grinned.
“That may serve. We’ll lead them astray as long as we might, though we’ll toss that when they’re onto us. We ride, then. And I shall speak less harshly of Trey Atwood, eh? Perhaps I’ll join his camp if I survive.”
She offered a scarred forearm to clasp, and Pisces hesitated.
“The soldiers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. What will you do with them?”
He was worried that when he turned his back, there would be a bloodbath, but the woman just glanced over her shoulder.
“We’ll offer them a chance to join us in Reim. It’s been done many a time the last war we fought with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They know their kingdom’s left them. Some might risk returning home or hiding. No blood while we’re all fugitives, I swear that on Drevish’s honor.”
She clasped a fist to her chest, and Pisces believed her, because he’d cast [Detect Truth]. So he nodded.
Rode.
 
——
 
He hit three more caravans on the second day before they realized he was using the map against them. They’d been oh, so clever.
Each one had been moving erratically, going off-road; he’d have never found them without the map. Even the Myna bird had missed one under a [Mass Camouflage] spell of some kind.
They had to know it was him. They’d been checking for [Invisibility] spells, pushing their animals to the brink to get to the city or just away…then he hit them with everything he had.
It didn’t get—easier. Despite the growing horde of undead, he kept running into problems.
 
——
 
Adventuring team. Bronze-ranks? Silver? He wasn’t sure, but they’d engaged the Skeleton Champions and been fighting equally until he hit two of them with [Deathbolts]. The team of six had fled, and he wasn’t sure if he’d killed…
 
——
 
Had there been an [Assassin] in the next caravan? He wasn’t sure. Something had shot the young man wearing white robes in the neck with a dart. Right before the hail of arrows hit Pisces, fifty-six shots. The young man had fallen over, and they’d cheered…
Right up until they realized the white robes were just that; white robes, unenchanted. And the ‘young man’ was a dead zombie staring skywards.
Then he’d fought. Pisces had never run into the figure who’d shot the dart. He was drinking a second healing potion, ordering the undead to search for more. His underarmor covered his vital parts, chest to waist, but it wasn’t complete. Little scratches bled him. A glancing blow, shrapnel from one of the wagons which had exploded as the undead came near…
Traps.
He didn’t know if there were [Slaves] amidst the dead. He raised all he could and moved on as the ones he’d freed fled.
 
——
 
Someone must have figured out Pisces’ map-trick after the third caravan, because all the icons of the other caravans vanished.
That was okay; Pisces had two more birds in the air, and he’d marked the positions of the other caravans on his maps already and had tagged one from the air. There weren’t that many…around. At least of size.
Which was good. He needed a break.
He was failing the [Slaves]. Not that he’d helped them but this time he saw one wagon escape him. Screaming people inside as a pair of [Slavers] fired frantically from the rear. They tore a Ghoul clinging to the side off and it got away. He would have stopped them but he’d been getting sloppy. He needed to rest a second.
Pisces sat there, staring down at the spear in his leg. It hurt quite a lot, but he was drinking from the healing potion. Forcing the tip out of his bones as he pulled at it. Skeleton Champions were hacking up the [Javelineer] who’d tossed it at him.
“It’s the Scourge! The Sc—”
A screaming man was holding a speaking stone up. The [Caravan Master]? Pisces flicked his wrist. Missed the [Shatterbolt].
The screaming man ran three steps, and a Ghoul tackled him. Good enough. Pisces took a sip of healing potion.
Heaved on the spear and told the Skeleton Champions to get it out of h—
Woke up when one of the [Slaves] poured the rest of the healing potion on him. Pisces stared at the bloody piece of metal. Tried to get up.
“We have to go. They’re coming. Run…”
 
——
 
—Woke up on a sled. The skeleton horse was trotting and kicking sand in his face, but it was pulling an improvised sled. Had he made it? The [Slaves]?
Not sure where…he saw a Skeleton Champion staring down at him. For a second, Pisces wondered if he’d lost control of his mana. Then he saw something gleaming along its face. A patch of ivory unlike the rest.
It gleamed under the moonlight. Beautiful, pale.
Stellar Ivory. He gazed up at it and then slept.
 
[Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur Level 45!]
[Skill – Advanced Undead Shaping Obtained!]
[Spell – Mend Undead Obtained!]
 
——
 
Pisces dreamed oddly in his sleep.
He dreamed of…
Ivery.
He was the Skeleton Champion. For a second, he was Bearbones, the two-headed warbear, ‘sleeping’ next to a bunch of oddly-sanguine animals, camels and horses, even a zorse. And Ivery, sitting cross-legged in a tent as people spoke around him.
Both. And a bunch of undead marching around a sleeping [Necromancer] glowing with undeath. Pisces was split between all these perspectives…
He was even in a bar with wiggling slime-breasts, serving drinks to—
…
His mind fuzzed, and the Skeleton Lord’s viewpoint snapped him into Ivery’s eyes. Then he was Ivery.
Bones scarred from combat. A bit stronger than before? Yes. It was his animating spell. He was quicker, more adept, but most importantly, his bones were stronger.
Different bones than the poor [Slavers]. Better bones. See here, this had been one of the [Slavetaker Champions]. And this was a bone from a dead [Slave Master] who’d nearly killed Bearig with a sword—
One bone per corpse. Lessons learned. Ivery knew this, of course. It was Pisces’ mind which absorbed it all.
Stronger, faster, better with a blade—but not as good as some. Frustration. The Skeleton Lord was frustrated. Too many Djinni. Too weak. It had eaten a [Lightning Bolt] the other day, and true, no one had died but…
“Good job, Ivery.”
The words echoed in its skull. The Skeleton Lord stopped picking at the sandy ground in the tent. Smiled. It glanced up, with Pisces, as someone spoke.
“—has to be him. No one else could do it, eh?”
“Why now? He’s too far inland to get there. We’ll never make it.”
“Someone must try. If it is him, he’s fighting alone. So are we cowards?”
The voices were familiar. To Pisces. Ivery knew them all, of course. There was Nathpe, the [Rebel] that the Horns of Hammerad had helped when she led a raid on a caravan along the Ekhot Straits. She was fiercely arguing with the other leaders, who’d ridden through the night to be here.
Risky, risky. But everyone was aflutter with the news. They’d heard it through their own sources and Roshal’s Guild. She was remonstrating with a huge Human man, a solid bloke named Amprel, over six and a half feet tall. He didn’t run fast, but he didn’t get into trouble like she did.
“Not cowards but, I think, practical. Merr’s closer. If we go this far into Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we may never come out.”
“If it’s him—”
“Let’s ask Bearig.”
That came from Qshom, of course. The [Tailor of Freed Thread] was working on an arm; he always was. So every head turned, and a man heaved himself up. Pisces, dreaming, felt a shock.
Of course, he hadn’t seen how much weight the [Cook] had lost. Or how he’d rebuilt his arms for more muscle. They were still thick, but he had a warrior’s trim in more than just body. It was a confidence, both in tone and how he held himself.
“We ride. Ivery’s gazed that way nonstop.”
“Even in battle, eh? Maybe we’ll get him upgraded, at least. Then we’re with you, Bearig.”
Nathpe leapt up, but Bearig held up a hand.
“Not every group. We have to be fast. Qshom, you stay with Nathpe. Amprel, if you run interference…”
She began arguing as the other man nodded, relieved.
“This I can do.”
“I’m going with you. We’re all going. If only Eloque were here…”
Qshom stood, and Bearig began to argue, then nodded. They were all talking, then, and Ivery’s head was turning. He got up to pace around the camp. Guard duty in case a Djinni attacked—not that he could do much. He’d ‘died’ sixty-eight times, but they kept putting him together.
Weaker than he should be for a Skeleton Lord. If a certain [Necromancer] were doing upgrades, Ivery could use something better than a crummy piece of glass, eh?
At this point, Pisces realized the Skeleton Lord was talking to him. In a way. He was stirring and trying to ask.
Eloque? Merr was elsewhere, but what had happened to Eloque? He saw Ivery pass by a temporary tent, and his reflection caught in the light from a glass lantern. A skeleton with glowing blue flames for eyes.
A camp of [Rebels].
Bearig, stepping out to call for Ivery.
“Ivery, we need to know where—”
A little figure was by his side. Ivery strode over, and Rophir pointed up. The half-Elf boy looked broadly the same, but his skin was sun-tanned now, and he seemed different. His eyes more focused. He had a turban on his head and he spoke.
“He’s in his eyes.”
Bearig jerked and stared at Pisces, and the [Necromancer]—
—woke—
—up.
 
——
 
He was feverish when he woke up. Head spinning, clouded. Pisces lay there until a Skeleton Champion unhooked a water flask and gave it to him. He drank thirstily.
“Bearig? Where’s Eloque. Ivery…”
He’d known the Skeleton Lord was still around, but—Pisces had no idea you could do that. He was learning a lot.
He hoped he wasn’t infected by the spear wound. He lay there until he was well enough to rise and pass water. Then he sat and thought.
 
——
 
It had been a Skill from the [Javelineer] which had gotten Pisces on the fifth caravan attack. The Stitch-woman had played dead.
Foolish of himself to go in like that, but the undead had needed backup. Pisces needed more bones. But the Stitch-folk attrition rate meant he was barely growing the horde.
…Well. It’d do. The Bone Horror and Skeleton Champions were the first beneficiaries of Pisces’ [Mend Undead] spell. He could fuse bones and fix them, but this was like a [Repair] spell. Far more convenient.
Pisces wished he’d gotten a new undead or attack spell, but life was not so convenient. If he’d been able to animate that Bone Behemoth…
No. Too big. Same with Crypt Lords if he could make them; too slow, and they thought.
He had a mix of zombies, over two hundred; Skeleton Champions, thirteen; a Bone Horror; and about twenty Ghouls. More than enough to wipe out an average caravan alone. And Pisces’ scouts told him the other caravans were going evasive. The one he’d tagged was deep offroad and trying to bury themselves under tarps in the sand.
Very clever, actually. They’d decided to hide rather than go for the city. There were, what, two more in the area he could hit? That he knew of. This one would have been all-but-invisible to Pisces.
Since he knew it was there, Pisces had a thought. He was immobilized while he healed. It was dark, and he was exhausted.
He glanced up, and a Skeleton Champion winked a yellow eyeflame at him.
We do overtime, boss.
Pisces was probably still a bit sick because he imagined the Skeleton Champion talking like Colth. Either way, it was a good idea. The Skeleton Champions took point and led the Ghouls and Zombies into the night, followed by the galloping Bone Horror. Pisces drifted off and dreamed of undead falling upon screaming [Slavers].
No, wait, that wasn’t a dream.
 
——
 
Attrition was decently high for the undead during the night battle, but they actually animated the rest of the corpses as zombies and came back. More importantly, Pisces had realized two things as he slept.
One: the Skeleton Champions were generating Stellar Ivory, that resource he still lacked much of. He had not yet made anything permanent out of it…
Two: a period of two full moons was approaching. The [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] could be cast, and at last, Pisces was close enough to bind something to Ivery again.
He’d slept on both things, especially Ivery. But the thought of the Skeleton Lord made Pisces resolve to do the ritual.
Anything’s better than a glass rock. He seems far more powerful, but I could potentially just remake him entirely. That…made Pisces feel guilty, but Ivery was like a hodgepodge of bones. If Pisces used the Manticore bones, he could make a Manticore Skeleton Lord.
Imagine one of those coming at you. With a bound [Fireball] in the mouth? Az’kerash had said that the ritual allowed for any spell Pisces knew—though the Skeleton Lord would need to use its personal mana reserves if Pisces didn’t help.
Bound [Fireball] at will?
No, no, bound [Invisibility] at will. Invisible Manticore Skeleton Lord.
He put that one in as ‘acceptable’. Pisces was more worried in the interim about the Stellar Ivory thing.
He was aware the Skeleton Champions were developing a bit of a personality. A bit of autonomy. Any undead of sufficient power could think; even Ghouls were a bit tactical. The Skeleton Champions might not be full leadership types, but he had to watch them. Make sure they didn’t think he would be better as a Skeleton Lich or go rogue.
The Stellar Ivory was a powerful piece of necromantic material. Would they want to hang onto it? He still didn’t fully know what it did aside from knowing it could partially-animate an undead even without a complete frame and was stronger and could generate mana…
As it turned out, the issue was a moot one. When the Skeleton Champions came tromping back, blades freshly blooded, they had a surprise for Pisces. He stared at the roughly femur-sized pile of bone scraps, each one pale and starlight bright.
The Stellar Ivory. They’d pulled it out of their bodies! Pisces saw a replacement finger on the Skeleton Champion with the bow, a missing piece from one’s head, a chunk carved out of another’s forearms—
“For me? Why?”
He croaked at them. For answer, the Skeleton Champions knelt while the one holding the bones presented it to Pisces like a [Knight] offering a great item to a [King]. It had that same feel.
Perhaps it was their growing autonomy. Or his lesson in seeing through Ivery’s eyes. But Pisces felt it, this time. A sense from the undead.
They weren’t able to think, let alone in concrete terms like Ivery. They were dimmer in intelligence. But there was a…feeling from them. Even the Ghouls and zombies. They gazed at the Stellar Ivory, at Pisces, and recognized him.
Necromancer.
The glowing ivory was valuable. Each undead wanted it, like a flower craved good soil or sunlight. But they recognized Pisces was the creator of it. That he could make greater undead.
They had…
Great expectations of him.
He shivered and realized they had always been waiting for him to level.
 
——
 
Pisces never found the 7th caravan. He suspected, like the 6th, it had gone to ground because he had multiple undead birds in the sky, and they saw nothing like it.
That was okay. He spent all of the third day resting. He was a bit feverish, but he thought he hadn’t been infected or he’d have been dead with that healing potion; he was good enough to rise on the 4th day and do what had to be done.
 
——
 
The city of Halqued wasn’t noticeably different after a few days since the Horns of Hammerad had fought Itkisa at the Mad Ones’ encampment. Life was back to normal.
Oh, it had been crazy for a moment there. There had been scrying spells, people had been going to see and then being told they might be inside a Gold-rank adventurer fight—it had been exciting!
Everyone had hoped for a bunch of cameras to come through so they could be on Nerrhavia’s Wonders—alas, only the Mad Ones got interviewed. And, reminded of that, people had visited their encampment and bragged to relatives and friends they’d been close to this news story, but it really hadn’t been A Thing.
There had been that incident with the Bane afterwards, but it hadn’t been much to hear tales of it. The Bane of Roshal hates slavery, shocking, more at eleven.
Even in the days after the Horns had left, things were fine.
Oh, sure, there had been that weird undead attack on the road, but they’d been killed. And maybe some [Soldiers] kept heading out on patrol; well, good, they might as well do something around here!
On the third day, perhaps you could see some agitation around the local Slaver’s Guild. It was oddly quiet without a regular shipment of [Slaves]. Everyone there seemed grumpy, but you could walk the city and never come across the Guild or its members.
So the city truly was placid, with its usual corruption or scandals unique to it. Was [Mayor] Heresha truly still sleeping with eleven different suitors? Yes. Had Master Dromet really bought some object from the Mad Ones which was allowing him to out-carpenter every other competitor, and had he been murdered by his son for said object? Investigations were still ongoing.
People entered and exited the city, local towns feeding the ore markets always hungry for more. In fact, a band of fifty were on the roads transporting a rather huge haul of ore from one of said local towns.
Copper, the good stuff. Every metal was useful, and fifty huge loads of copper in massive baskets as big as the carriers were headed towards the gates.
Ore was hard to transport because Bags and even Chests of Holding had hard limits to volume and weight. Even if it was only 40%, filling a Chest of Holding with copper ore was a good way to get an object impossible to move that would smash through any vehicle.
There were ways around the issue. Spells for lightening the weight, Djinni, or, and here was a Chandrarian method: [Slaves].
Fifty Hemp [Slaves] with [Laborer] classes was cheaper than other solutions. True, it wore down their bodies fast, but Hemp was cheap. It was just one of those things where Roshal had become part of the economy of Chandrar; they often sold [Slaves] cheap for first-time buyers because when you had one, you tended to get more.
They were in sight of the walls as a somewhat-harried Cotton Stitch-man with a whip chivvied the Hemps forwards. If he was impatient, well, it was damned hot, and the flies were biting. The Hemps ignored the whips on their backs as they plodded along, and pedestrians kept wide of the ore train.
One man even told the [Labormaster] off for flicking the whip a bit too close to his son; he might hurt someone! The [Labormaster] was hurling an expletive, telling the man to deal with Hemp for an hour and then he’d see, when someone walked out of the stream of people headed for the gates.
It was a figure to draw the eyes. Not because of his attire; he was wearing a wanderer’s clothing, dusky, sun-bleached fabric, mostly grey or brown, wrapped around his arms and legs. Cheap protection against sun, insect, and sand. If he smelled at all in this heat, it was of sweat and unwashed linen. His feet made no sound on the dry ground.
Nor did he speak as the babble of voices, the crack of that whip, filled the morning air. But what marked him and had faces turning, people stepping side and pointing covertly, was the mask.
It was a bone white mask that only had room for his eyes, which were between grey and green, perhaps with a hint of orange. They were wide, unblinking, and people took him at once to be an [Assassin].
Or an odd adventurer, a bounty hunter? Perhaps just someone hiding his face, a criminal, but not one you wished to be drawn into the proximity of. The [Guards] at the gates bestirred themselves as one marked the figure. More work. They hoped he was not some trouble…they began to argue who had to interrogate the fellow.
The [Labormaster] saw the stranger with the mask last. He was raising his whip for another blow when his head turned and he saw the figure. Instead of lifting the lash further, he lowered it, politely giving the person a wary nod.
“Watch the Hemp, stranger. They’ll hurt you if one should fall with all that weight.”
A conscientious man’s concern for a fellow traveller on the roads. The stranger with the mask said nothing, but he stopped on the road. Accordingly, the [Labormaster] did too. Then he saw the stranger had a sword. A long rapier, a thin blade with a strange coating to the sword’s edge halfway up. Or was it some odd…
He drew it. Every eye had already been focused on him, but now the people halted. The [Labormaster]’s mouth opened, and he half-glanced behind him, as if thinking…he raised the whip uncertainly, but it was no weapon to block a strike with.
“Sir, what is—”
The masked stranger’s blade went across the Stitch-man’s neck, and the head landed on the ground. It kept speaking, in that way only Stitch-folk could do, as his body crumpled.
“—going on? I’m just bringing…I’m…ah.”
He gazed up as blood spurted up from his corpse. It did not turn to cloth; too much of it had been connected to the Stitch-man’s body. It fell, and there was a scream. Someone covered her mouth. The father with his son backed away, fumbling for—
The masked stranger turned, and the Hemp-folk had frozen. They gazed at him, and he looked to them. To the walls. Then down at the head.
“You’re him.”
The [Labormaster] was dying. His eyes glazing over without blood or oxygen, but he gazed up, almost dreamily at the figure who shook blood off his blade. There was no response.
Then a call from the wall. A shout. The people didn’t panic or run—they were frozen for a man with a blade was among them. But he didn’t cut into the Hemp [Slave]. He just turned…and walked.
Down the road, away from the city of Halqued. A slow walk that stopped only once. At first, it was nonsensical to the travellers who flinched away from him, hoping to hear the Watch coming to their rescues. Then they saw the second figure he had stopped next to.
It was an older man. Human, the other common species wherever you went. He was far richer, dressed well, and less…well, one might never associate with his kind. Because he was taking a [Slave] for a walk.
Some beautiful Stitch-girl who had to crawl like an animal. Not far from the city since who could move like that? A [Master] taking a [Slave] for a walk, the kind of which…
Then it was like a little click ran through all’s minds, and they took in the mask. White as bone. And that rapier was the bigger clue. The old man trembled then.
“I—”
The second swing didn’t take his head off but halted against his spine. Even so, when the old man fell, he did not get up nor gasp for air. Dead.
The [Slave] on her hands and knees stared up at the figure as he halted. She whispered.
“My collar’s deathmarked if I run. If I—”
He didn’t pick up the fallen leash. The masked figure just bent down, and she flinched; blood was on his clothing and mask. Did he whisper something to her?
If so, no one heard it. Her eyes were round as he walked down the road. Then…the horns were sounding from the gates. There was shouting, and someone began running for Halqued. A scream—and people began to flood towards the gates, but they looked back.
That masked figure was on the roads. Walking away from the city mobilizing—slowly—too slowly—and there was suddenly that calm dread. Even excitement, however perverse.
He was walking down the road. Then the people asked the horrifying question—how many on this road might have one of them with them? Servant, company, labor?
[Slaves].
 
——
 
By morning, the babble of what had happened at the northern gates was the rage of the city. People were talking, speculating.
It had to be. But he had left! All had seen it! He had—
Someone should tell Wistram, surely. There had been horn calls all morning. A [Guard] had gone off-duty and was gossiping loudly with everyone else at the wells.
“We never found him. Not that it is a ‘he’ we know for certain, and the Watch Captain bid us all quiet—but we rode down the road, and there were but six dead for the span of three miles.”
“Six!”
“Less than you might think? Then the [Soldiers] took over, but you know the Hemp; slow to move, slow to march. Each deathblow was a single cut, but for one fellow who seemed to have tried to dodge; he was stabbed ere he lay.”
She was peering around, perhaps thinking to report this to a newspaper or the Mage’s Guild. The folk of Halqued were mostly excited, those who hadn’t seen the killings.
“Do you think I might get an autograph? It’s worth good gold, and I had not the chance earlier…”
An enterprising man spoke up, excited. Another licked his lips.
“You’d be a fool to ask. Hush a madman’s wishes or a Djinni will answer you with laughter. If it is so—”
“Bah, I’ve nothing to fear. I’m not rich enough to be a target!”
The autograph-wisher laughed, and there was agreement, an excitement in the air until there was, abruptly, a horncall again. Everyone turned, expecting it to be from the north, but it was not. It came…from the east.
Silence fell, and all turned to Guard Lortina, who fell silent, gulping water from a waterflask. She spilled her drink slightly, then smiled.
“Probably a monster or some other—”
Then the horn blew again. And again, urgently. And they did not know, of course. They stood in sudden silence until they heard shouting—and then the silence was broken by a City Runner.
Her name was Loqe the Lethargic for she often overslept. She was quick, though, and ran…
She was running now, pale-faced, and blood was on her tunic. She came to a halt in the square around the well and gasped.
“It—it—they’re all dead.”
“Who is?”
Someone peered north, but Loqe pointed back with a trembling finger.
“The—the road east. A masked figure’s appeared and is killing everyone on the road! There was a [Slave Trader] and eleven—he’s hacked them up. A [Swordsman]—”
She was stuttering, in shock. Then the smiles left everyone, and they turned.
A masked man? Surely one would not be so mad unless…
“It’s him after all.”
The fellow who coveted an autograph was smiling now. Hesitantly, forcing it a bit. Because he was safe. He was—
Loqe the Lethargic needed soothing, and they asked her what she had seen. She was mid-recounting the tale of violence where one man had taken out eleven so fast…someone was running to see what the Watch and garrison were doing for they had seen [Riders] streaming eastwards.
Then they heard more horncalls to the south. And west. Then there was a twisting in the stomach.
“One man cannot be in three places at once. It’s like the other times, I’ve heard, on the borders. Anyone can wear a face—”
The comment hung in the air, like the suspended bucket of water shedding droplets into the well. Right up until there was a scream.
“Undead on the road! Skeletons are slaughtering people! Help!”
Now a ringing. Summoning the Watch to arms. A [Rider] galloped into the square.
“It’s some kind of Skeleton Knight—six of them! They ignored me, but they’re butchering—”
Guard Lortina paled and backed up as every eye turned towards her. She protested she was off-duty, tired, sick—before the same thought hit her as everyone else.
Loqe the Lethargic swallowed and looked up.
“Undead, you said?”
“Yes! I’ve never seen one fight like that. Each had weapons and armor—are you mad?”
The terrified [Rider] was afraid until they saw how everyone eyed each other and marked this fact. Then it was like a fell wind blowing across the city.
“I hold no chains.”
The autograph-seeker said it slowly, as if to declare himself innocent of something. A few people in the crowd stared at him, and someone called out.
“We’re all citizens of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, man!”
“Yes. But in case anyone were listening, I wish to say that I hold no chains nor have held any. Nor would I be leaving the city if…”
The voice trailed off. Then Loqe muttered.
“How far up the road north did you say he went? Three miles?”
Silence. The city listened as horns blew and blew, and now [Soldiers] were marching left, right, shouting for citizens to clear the way, but they appeared—disconcerted. They started running, but never seemed to fight or find anything.
Then the bodies started coming into the city. Stained red. And the citizens of Halqued—yes, they woke up from that amusing dream they’d had. Adventurers doing adventurer things. Some had wished for more interest, more drama, more excitement worthy of the legend.
Djinnis laugh at you. Fool, for what you wish.
The first day of it had the city in uproar. The [Mayor] and three of her lovers standing behind her giving a speech assuring everyone the gates were solid, the garrison full of thousands of Nerrhavia Fallen’s finest. The Slaver’s Guild loudly calling for adventurers, for protection!
—After three days, someone said that a [Slave Trader] had been found dead on the road, fifty miles north of the city. Entrails spilt after being taken off his horse. Half his [Slaves] had fled into the city, the other half vanished.
By then, it was one of a hundred tales from the road. An unease that gripped much of the city. Anyone who had even so much as held a collar, or who had a friend, family who owned [Slaves] felt a great trepidation upon them. Of course, they knew they were safe behind the walls, but they demanded reassurances that were given. This would end, this would be the last time. And then another report came in, and another.
The Scourge had come to Halqued.
Now, they knew what it meant.
 
——
 
He knew time was passing. That he had to get back to his team, but he just thought of that girl, and he didn’t stop.
He was out of caravans, obviously. So he just…took to the roads. Walked up and down them and found them.
There were so many. At times, it was one in a thousand. Other times, there were so many he wondered what percentage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of Chandrar, held chains.
The disguise might not have done much. He still carried his rapier since he needed the weapon he knew. But it was deniability. Just a shred.
Pisces had had the vague thought, when he was feverish, to come up with an alibi for not reaching Tyrant’s Rest. He’d worked on a long ruse and been organizing a second bird with a [Message] scroll when he’d checked and realized he and Ceria shared the same single brain cell.
 
Pisces: Ahem, to my esteemed Captain Ceria (and team), I regret to inform you that my sojourn abroad has hit something of a snag. I was accosted on the road by a rather objectionable fellow who insisted I duel him. When I naturally refused, he claimed it was over an illicit relationship I had with his bride-to-be?
Whom I did not know. Whereupon I did clarify the issue, and it turned out I was the object of admiration—suffice it to say I have been at a wedding of some length.
They go on for days, allegedly, and I have been trying to excuse myself, but I may be delayed.
Ceria: You idiot, what? Are they eating cake?
Pisces: As a matter of fact, yes. And I have been propositioned, in rather scandalous terms, by several ladies—
Colth: You’d better take them up on their offer.
Pisces: I shall not respond to that. Rest assured I will be headed back as soon as I find out—
Pisces: I believe I am in the wrong city. Excuse me while I clarify.
Ceria: Hilarious. Yisame’s laughing her butt off. Get over here, dumbass.
 
To be clear, Pisces hadn’t written any of that. It was clearly a conversation she’d written up in his voice. If he logicked out what she was doing, she was probably arranging the same trick he had, albeit with perhaps one of Yisame’s people casting the other [Message].
It was all obfuscation, deniability. He felt guilty but…well.
He continued. He knew it was dangerous and that each day ran the risk higher, that Roshal had to know. But he could not enter the city; he’d seen how many [Soldiers] were there, and the gates were now watched by a small army.
But there was a madness in him, a kind of thought in his head.
If no one enters or exits the city from Roshal, they can’t sell her or anyone else.
All he had to do was…kill any of them he found. Birds flying the skies. Undead mice on the ground.
It was just madness. The darkness of his class. He’d always known, deep down, he was probably like this.
He was glad no one from home could see him.
For he didn’t stop.
 
——
 
He was not freeing [Slaves]. He was killing [Slavers].
There was a distinction. Most of the time, Pisces just walked past the [Slaves]. Many had magicked collars. They were on the road, with witnesses. They could not run.
They recognized him, of course, but most said not a word. Not one. They would stare at the ground, wide-eyed, or shrink away from him. Some even covered their masters with their bodies, weeping.
Was it real? He couldn’t tell, though at times he would see one glance up at him or smile, give the slightest nod. They were tiny signs, and the most common, from the [Slaves] who looked oldest, was this.
They would put forefingers or pinkies together, linking like two fishhooks in a simple gesture, then pull them apart. A quick motion while feigning fear or pretending to be mute or silent.
A gesture without equivocation. He wanted to free them the most, but he could not. Even when they begged, he just told them he couldn’t do anything. Walked on as guilt ate at him.
Some ran for it. Others offered to join him, and again, it was hard.
Once, a Stitch-boy who couldn’t have been more than sixteen had bent down to pick up a cane that had been lashing his back. He’d put it on one shoulder and asked Pisces who he was killing next. Pisces had almost let him tag along—but the Stitch-boy couldn’t cast spells. He was too young, too low-level.
Garuda were easiest because they could fly off, and he could believe that was that. One time, he ambushed a bunch of Slave-Adventurers, three Garuda and a Stitch-girl with a painted face who called herself a [Clown].
She wanted to join him; the Garuda all flew off, each in a different direction. They’d all been adventurers who’d been in debt and enslaved. The Stitch-girl had nowhere to go, and he’d hesitated—turned her down as she cried out they’d capture her on the road. She’d tried to follow him, but when she saw the horde of undead he used to screen his retreat as they fled backwards into the wilderness, she’d given up.
It ate at him, but he didn’t even know where safety was.
So he walked or ran, vanishing with [Invisibility] when the garrison rode out to get him. Pisces’ trick that had foiled the charioteers worked again and again.
They could defeat invisibility.
They could detect life. They could detect death, and sometimes, his undead got sighted.
They could not find someone who was invisible to death or life, a man who just lay down in the sand and waited for them to pass by. Perhaps there were [Trackers] or [Hunters] who could find him.
Pisces assumed they did not want to find him or he was getting lucky. He lost track of how many days it was; he would wake up at random, multiple times in the night, sleep in the day.
Not long, he assumed.
Not long. Just a while of waking up and walking down the roads, [Flash Stepping] along from town to village to the city’s gates. He kept finding people, and so he told himself after a day when he found no one, no one—he’d stop. Then he’d have done his best, right? Then…
Then he ran into the family.
 
——
 
There were five of them. Father, mother, young. Early thirties? Children, ten and nine? [Slave], mid-twenties, a Garuda.
They’d hidden her collar with a hood. Been hurrying towards Halqued, within three miles, when he’d reached them. By now, it was easy for Pisces to tell the signature of Roshal’s magic.
He appeared and drew his sword, and they screamed.
All of them—the father tried to make the horse pulling the little cart go faster. Pisces walked around it, cut the leads, and it galloped away. He saw the two Stitch-children frozen as their mother grabbed at them, and the man drew a belt-knife.
Pisces took slow aim and hesitated. The two children were staring at him, at the faded blood on the mask he hadn’t bothered to clean, and then the man lunged.
“[Quick St—]”
He missed. Pisces had seen Skills go off, and it was obvious. He leaned away, slashed the arm down to the bone, and the man screamed and fell onto the ground. Pisces raised the rapier to stab as they yelled at him, and someone threw herself on top of him.
The Garuda [Slave].
“Tirth! Master Tirth! Help! Help—”
She was shielding him. Then the mother leapt forwards, another shield, and Pisces stared down.
“Move.”
He was speaking to the Garuda, but she turned up huge eyes at him and shrieked back.
“Leave! Please! I don’t want to be free! He’s done nothing to you!”
Pisces had been—not calm. Not tranquil, but a steady thrum of intensity that had passed hours by without the strain of more than concentration. This shattered his focus. He blinked. Peered down at her.
“Bane, spare us! Chire, Doit, run!”
The two children were scrambling off the wagon, and Pisces just gazed down at the man, who was groaning, holding his arm.
“We’ve done nothing to you. You—you butcher. Spare my family! Take Yive. Yive, just go and—”
“Don’t hurt him!”
That was directed at Pisces. He was circling around. Then the mother rose.
“You’re trying to kill an innocent man!”
Pisces stared at the Garuda and the collar exposed from her hood. The young Garuda was named Yive? She rasped.
“They took me in when I was young. I’m family—if you want to stab him, you’ll have to stab me!”
“And me! Get back!”
The mother was swinging the fallen knife at Pisces. He was thinking as he held still.
His goal had been to kill the father. The children were innocent. Killing both parents…
No. He couldn’t do that.
He glanced down at Yive, and she paled.
“Shie, run! Run! He’s going to kill all of you—”
She threw herself up, arms spread, and the mother turned white. She tried for a slash—Pisces cut the dagger out of her hands, and red blood showered the ground.
“Mummy!”
Her daughter screamed in horror. The boy—Doit—ran at Pisces and tried to punch his leg. His previously-wounded one, which twinged. He punched Pisces in the stomach, hitting the Stalker underarmor, screaming.
“Stop it! Stop it, I’ll kill you! I’ll—”
Pisces almost kicked him, then the man, Tirth, tore his son back. He backed away, one armed, and the four Stitch-folk hid behind the Garuda. Pisces eyed Yive, and she was shaking.
“Bane or Scourge—it is you, isn’t it? We were just going home. We had been on holiday when you—if you have any reason, let us go. I don’t wish to be freed.”
They had done a lot of talking. Pisces felt like his own throat was filled with sand. He croaked.
“Why?”
The Garuda gave him a blank look, then earnestly turned her head towards the family. They were backing up towards the city, leaving her, but they were calling for her to run, to fly.
“They’re my family.”
“You’re in chains.”
“So? Not all of us are treated poorly! Where would I go without them? You—do you think everyone you killed is a monster? Let us go.”
Pisces stared past Yive, at the Stitch-folk. Tirth shouted at Pisces.
“You’re no Gold-rank hero worthy of Hraace! You cold-blooded killer—touch Yive and I’ll have every bounty hunter and assassin in Chandrar on you!”
He sounded so self-righteously passionate. He flinched, and Yive blocked Pisces. Perhaps thinking to stop a spell.
Like [Deathbolt]. She was panting, and Pisces spoke directly to her.
“If they loved you, they’d free you.”
Another blank gaze, then an incredulous laugh. She shook her head.
“And do what, employ me? I like my class. I’m a [Happy Slave]. You’ve only known poor slavemasters. They’re not all like that.”
His hand—twitched. She flinched and backed away, tensing to leap into the air. Pisces inhaled and exhaled slowly.
The Watch would be coming. He addressed Yive shortly.
“Not everyone is treated like you.”
“And? Are you going to free me against my wishes? Are you going to butcher everyone who has a [Slave] for the sins of a few?”
She flapped upwards and grew more confident, calling down at him as she circled. Pisces’ head turned, and he was cold.
“Yes.”
She faltered, and Pisces glanced at the family now running for the gates. He could hit the father with a [Deathbolt]…maybe. But it might go through him and hit a child. He lowered his finger as Yive swooped at him. She had talons outstretched.
“[Defend the Master]!”
He dodged her. She hit the ground hard and cried out. Then flapped around awkwardly. She stared down at him, and he imagined Cawe in her place.
He didn’t stab her. Pisces just felt at his hair.
“I didn’t think about killing parents in front of children.”
It was more of a statement to himself. He turned and began to stride away; he could sense figures racing out the gates. Yive called after him, a shrieking, angry note in her voice; she might have broken her own foot in trying to attack.
“Do you understand what you nearly did? What you’ve done, Bane? Are you regretting any of it?”
He turned back. Glanced at her. Then it came out of him.
Laughter.
Bitter laughter he hadn’t heard in a long, long time. The same kind of laughter he’d felt bubbling inside of him when Relc and Klbkch had nearly executed him. When he’d been taken captive by Montressa’s team. A dark, mirthless laughter bordering on hysteria. She flinched, and he walked off.
Laughing his head off until he cast [Invisibility]. He supposed, later, he should have reflected on that. Had a moment of conscience or doubt.
Instead, he just thought that it would have left a bad taste in his mouth, either way.
Cast [Sleep] first. He’d be more careful the second time.
He supposed he was going mad, then. Sinking deeper, but he didn’t hear the red class, if he had one. Just…
Silence.
That silence was an answer of its own. He murmured to himself as he continued his walk.
“Ah. So this is what it was like. When Perril Chandler became the Necromancer who destroyed Silvaria, the Kingdom of Paintings.”
He gazed down at his hands, flexing them.
“It doesn’t hurt at all. It’s too easy. I cannot feel myself falling. Just climbing a mountain I must carve out of their blood and flesh.”
Longing to breathe the air at the top, as if he could end the nightmare. He felt like a man in a dark sea, underwater, climbing the dark mountain of corpses he was building. Ever higher, that he might one day breach the surface and find a better world where he could be normal and happy, again.
Pisces turned back and stared at the city blaring alarms. His eyes shone in the darkness, and he feared they shone black and white. But all he said as he vanished was—
“I’m sorry, Erin. It appears you were wrong about me.”
 
——
 
Pisces didn’t sleep well that night. The sight of that Garuda chased him around, and he kept sitting up with things to tell her or say.
‘Did it ever occur to you that you should have been born in a world without being a slave?’
‘When they take off their mask, then you’ll see.’
‘You haven’t looked around at the others, you hypocritical—’
Stuff like that. Then he’d done some calculations. If you weren’t willing to kill the parents, you could put a hole through both knees. Though that might mean the children were without caregivers. How about one eye per person? And they were Stitch-folk, so any damage was healable…
How could she look him in the eye with that self-righteous fury? [Happy Slave]. Happy—was it a redline class? Delusion, like that [Guard] who’d thought all the [Slaves] were smiling at him?
Toss, turn. Toss—he was glad when he realized the 7th caravan had appeared.
They were making a break for it. Away from the city. They must have been hiding however long it had been. How much food did they have? Days? Not for weeks unless they’d overbought for whatever reason.
Time or desperation had forced their hands. Pisces sat bolt upright; he sensed eight open wagons racing northwards. He leapt up. Jumped in the saddle as the undead stirred.
Rode.
 
——
 
The undead were out of position, and the wagons were moving fast. He had to slow them down, so Pisces cast the one spell he could.
“[Stone Stalagmite]!”
The Tier 2 version of [Earthen Spire] wasn’t powerful. Nor was Pisces a good [Geomancer]; the piece of stone rose fast enough to hit you hard in the groin, and it was pointy-ish. But the resultant piece of stone was hard.
Hard enough to hit a wagon wheel and shatter the axle. Two of the eight wagons slammed into the ones already skidding out of line, and the frantic [Guards] leapt down to try to replace the wheel.
Sadly, even without the locking nut that made Izrilian wagons more secure—most other continents didn’t have screws—changing a wagon wheel was hard enough in the dark.
Harder still with a [Necromancer] firing [Deathbolts] at you and Ghouls leaping down from a ridge. Twenty Ghouls versus maybe twice that number? A bit more?
He might win with the Ghouls alone. But Pisces didn’t like the ambush; he felt like there was some powerful magic around him, but he couldn’t locate it. So he [Flash Stepped] away, went invisible and silent, and waited.
The [Caravan Master] soon proved his instincts to be accurate. The man emerged, waving a Wand of [Fireballs], and Pisces saw a [Lightning Bolt] from another [Guard].
Wand spells. He grunted as the Ghouls went down. Now the wagons were being frantically repaired, but here came…
“U-undead! More of them! Dead gods! Lailight Scintillation, protect us!”
The [Slave Guards] were waving at the air, screaming, perhaps under [Scrying] spells? Pisces hoped his personal protections shorted it out. He sat up, taking aim with his death-mana laser as the leader fired [Fireballs] frantically at the incoming horde. The Skeleton Champions dodged, but zombies were going down. Pisces murmured.
“[Death—]”
Then he felt the mana around him surge and looked up. He saw lightning and dove.
The Djinni came to earth riding a real lightning bolt. He had the head of a cat, the body Human, bronzed skin crackling with magic, and his lower half was that of a cloud that turned into a glowing nimbus of blue particles sparkling with magic.
He was bare-chested, naked, in his way, save for a pair of golden spectacles on his face with a link of metal looped around one ear. He had more magic in him than any being Pisces had met save for the most dangerous of monsters or people like Larracel.
More magic than Azam’du.
The impact knocked Pisces sprawling. Seemutor cursed as he arose, and he drew six scimitars with six arms.
“Scourge of Roshal, your hour comes for you are marked. I am Seemutor, who has battled the King of Destruction and Orjin of Pomle! As my previous master, the Greatly Foolish Merchant Almon bids, who was sold into servitude and now is in chains alongside me—all enemies of Roshal shall die.”
His address was long, carrying, and he stretched his body upwards, growing until he was eight feet tall. Then he stretched his back out like a cat, yawned—
“Djinni, kill the undead!”
The [Slave Master] was howling at him. Seemutor glanced down at the embattled caravan, which was outnumbered by the undead.
“My task is to kill the assailant, not protect you. As so—”
He pointed, and Pisces realized the Djinni could see him. The [Invisibility] spell did noth—
The lightning bolt was fast, and Pisces had no idea how to handle it. He had never learned barrier spells like Ceria and Montressa had. He could have used Ksmvr’s Forceshield…
Pisces ducked down behind the dune he’d been crouching behind, and the impact kicked him backwards and onto his feet, but aside from the ringing in his ears and feeling that the air had punched him all over, the lightning didn’t do much. He scuttled away as Seemutor laughed.
“A fine trick. And now, mine. This is real lightning, not your [Mage]’s kind!”
He began arcing lightning bolts, firing them from his scimitars over the hill. They would have blown Pisces to bits—if he were anywhere near there.
He’d already [Flash Stepped] away, and Seemutor tried to follow him, frowning. A bolt of lightning passed in front of Pisces, and the [Necromancer] halted.
Seemutor’s aim was as good as Pisces’. Which was to say, he had trouble aiming at range too. Thinking of that, Pisces pointed.
He shot a ray of death-magic at Seemutor, straight at the Djinni’s chest.
[Deathbolt]—!
Before he even cast it, he saw Seemutor twist around nimbly at the waist, dodging the—Pisces never fired the spell. The Djinni recovered, fired four lightning bolts at Pisces—the [Necromancer] was running again.
Into the center of the fighting with the [Slavers] and undead. He leapt towards the wagons, the only place where Seemutor couldn’t hit him.
Because of the [Slavers]. Seemutor laughed and rose upwards.
“Ah, adventurers. The cunning of rats, and the pride of Crelers! Bravi, bravi, avventurieri! It saves you naught.”
Then he swept down with scimitars raised, firing lightning at the undead before beheading the first Skeleton Champion with a sweep of four of his blades.
 
——
 
Monster.
Pisces had encountered many foes. Horrifying ones he wasn’t sure he could hurt like Tolveilouka, the horde of Crelers who might kill in moments, the overwhelming might of Gazi when he’d been low-level, Bograms who was invisible, lurking—
Djinni were the most adaptive foe he’d ever met. For one thing?
Seemutor flew. There was no getting around that single dreadful aspect. He was fast, hard to hit in the air, and able to attack in more dimensions than Pisces was familiar with. It reminded him of Valeterisa. Or worse, Amerys.
The Djinni lounged on the air, pretending to rest on a cloud he conjured as he hurled down lightning bolts that blew apart undead. He was only pretending to be so relaxed; when a Skeleton Champion rolled out of the undead to aim a bow up at him, he came down and slashed the champion to bits.
“Djinni, stop playing around and save us! The Guild commands it!”
The [Slave Master] with the Wand of [Fireballs] was screaming, firing at the undead and even hitting his own [Guards]. The Slaver’s Guild must have given him the artifact; he was blowing through charges.
And Pisces’ horde. The [Necromancer] was mixing with his undead, sweating as he tried to think. Ambush! Fool, fool—
His saving grace was that there weren’t many [Slavers], and but for the two artifacts, they would have been slaughtered by his undead. However, the two armed with magical wands had to die if Pisces wanted backup against the Djinni. He knew the Djinni was waiting for him, though; Seemutor flew back upwards and, again, stretched like a cat. He had cat’s paws, now, and a feline coat of black fur he licked with a long tongue. Slitted pupils roaming…
He kept watching the [Caravan Master] with the Wand of [Fireballs]. He knew Pisces had to go for the man. As luck had it, though—the problem solved itself. The screaming [Slave Master] was firing [Fireballs] at the zombies.
“Die, die, all of you! [Fireball], [Fireball], [Fireb—]”
His wand had been glowing red-hot, actually smoking as the ruby tip cast the powerful spell over and over. It had been made for that one purpose, charged up with magic, but Pisces saw the wand glow brighter, brighter—
Then the [Fireball] detonated inside the wand. Seemutor winced and clapped a hand to his forehead.
“Fools.”
That…took out a chunk of the defenders. But the one with the [Lightning Bolt] wand was still firing and targeting the Skeleton Champions. Pisces cursed, aimed—fired.
He took the woman out with a single spell; she turned grey, waxy, toppled over. She wasn’t dead, but one of the zombies grabbed her, and that was that. Seemutor saw, though.
“There you are.”
He came down, and the undead vanished around the Djinni as he threw a lightning bolt, landed in the impact, and swept around.
Six arms, whirling blades, each one slashing with grace and form—nothing.
The Djinni had diced the zombies, but when he swung around, his eyes narrowed.
Where is that [Necromancer]—?
The [Shatterbolt] hit one of Seemutor’s scimitars as he blocked it, and he cried out in mortal pain as it exploded. He turned, leapt, and slashed—
The Skeleton Champion grinned at Seemutor as the Djinni cut it to ribbons. The Djinni’s eyes widened, and he spun—but no attack came from his back.
Gone, again. He flew upwards, cursing. He did not remake the shattered blade but just pointed a finger crackling with lightning.
“I sense you, little mage. Where are you?”
He stared down, then grinned. Below, Pisces cursed. He’d been sneaking through the undead, but now—
 
——
 
Impact. He bounced off a wagon, gasped, and grabbed the lip of the roof. Heaved himself backwards and over on top of it with strength and dexterity he didn’t know he had.
[Manacharged Reflexes].
Seemutor blew apart the wagon’s walls. He aimed up—the [Barrier of Light] absorbed a lightning bolt and blew up. Pisces was already flying downwards.
He could not engage this Djinni in a spellcasting duel! Nor hide! How was he seeing Pisces, even amongst the undead?
Djinni were made of magic, Azam had said. If anyone could see Pisces’ magical signature…
The battle with the [Slavers] was going Pisces’ way. The [Slavers] were trying to drive the wagons northwards, and annoyed, Seemutor boomed.
“Stand and fight, worthless wretches!”
He scythed the zombies down from the waist, targeting Skeleton Champions. A few could block one lightning bolt or survive a single shot—but they were glowing ash in seconds. The Bone Horror charged Seemutor next. He grabbed it, four hands grappling with it as it clawed, bit, gouged at his body…
It didn’t do any damage. The Bone Horror was scraping at—at—a cloud. Seemutor’s flesh just vanished under it, and the dismayed undead realized the laughing Djinni was ripping it apart.
Pisces took the opening and emerged out of cover.
“[Fireball]!”
He fired one of the two spells he’d prepped at Seemutor. The Djinni spun and began to twirl away from the Bone Horror, letting the fireball flash past him—
It blew up in midair, and the Djinni staggered.
“Hm.”
That…had been Pisces’ hope, that if he burst it in midair the shockwave would at least hurt—the Djinni raised his fingers, pointed.
Five lightning bolts hit a [Bone Wall] and exploded. Seemutor hesitated. Took aim again.
The second volley blew up on impact too, and Pisces was running up a dome. Seemutor hummed.
Then he fired two lightning bolts from his left hands, three from the other. The last one was scratching at his side.
The first volley blew apart the [Bone Wall] that Pisces had conjured a third time. The other three hit the second [Bone Wall], which was thin, paper-thick—but caused the magic to detonate.
“Nice trick, [Mage]. But you’ve run out of undead.”
So saying, Seemutor swept around and began slashing the last undead to pieces. He dispatched the final Skeleton Champions with flourishes of his blades, but only used two of them—his other four hands were making finger guns.
Waiting.
Seemutor was disappointed that the [Necromancer] didn’t rise to the bait. Still, he’d sacrificed all of his minions for that, and that was a [Necromancer]’s strength. The last of the powerful undead fell, and he dismissed the zombies as threatless; he floated past them, swinging his swords carelessly.
They couldn’t harm his body, not with their clawing hands. Now, Seemutor rose once more and saw the wagons of Roshal fleeing towards the city.
Their little distraction was done; the Slaver’s Guild had sprung its trap, and Seemutor, the agent of their rage, had his foe. He had marked the ways in which the one called ‘Scourge of Roshal’ could hurt him and was disappointed.
Orjin of Pomle had been more martially powerful, if limited. The King of Destruction and his vassals far more fearsome. This was just a middling adventurer, a nemesis to other small, low-level foes. Not to a Djinni of Seemutor’s caliber, and he was far from Drenirkessun.
Ah, Seemutor wearied of this battle already, for all it might be that of fame. What did he care for fame? If anything, he was slightly bitter to rid Roshal of another of its foes, even one undeserving of his reputation.
He peered around, his cat eyes focusing, hunting down the magic cast through the battle. The [Necromancer] used [Invisibility], as he had been told.
“That does not work on me.”
He’d dive and take the Human out in close-quarters combat. Seemutor’s ability to manipulate magic was actually fairly limited; there were others of his kin who could do far more than throwing parts of their body out like lightning. But in hand-to-hand combat, he was very experienced. The man could not outrun him. So…
…Where was he?
At first, Seemutor thought he’d just missed the [Necromancer] from his altitude, but then he realized he couldn’t spot…
But that was impossible. He could see [Invisibility] spells, which were just another form of magic, like a cloud. Yet the [Necromancer] was well and truly—
Dead? No, his corpse would be—
Seemutor began to fly closer to the ground. He swept left and right, staring around. But how? He searched for life magic, the energy of all beings. Then death magic, and saw plenty in the remaining zombies, the broken bones. But no vast signature like he’d identified in Pisces.
Then he remembered an old trick he’d heard [Necromancers] had used. One of the Djinni he’d served with in the Great Desert had once said—
He twisted around when he felt the death magic too late. Pisces nailed the Djinni in the chest with two [Deathbolts] and emerged out of the sand, rapier drawn. And Seemutor paused—
Then he laughed.
 
——
 
Pisces had hoped to hide, but he’d seen Seemutor start glancing his way. So he’d done it. He’d fired both [Deathbolts] dead on, without the deathmagic laser. He’d noticed Seemutor had been able to see even that.
Which meant that he’d probably used the same trick as everyone else. Seeing magic. Pisces’ ability to equalize magic had let him hide and land the first major spell of the battle. Two, straight through the Djinni’s chest.
The fur on Seemutor’s chest rippled and went dead white, as if scarred by the spells. His cloud-like lower half also paled, like someone had injected pale white in the whirling cloud. The Djinni did not stagger. He didn’t appear pained, just surprised.
Then he laughed.
“Ah, [Necromancer]. It would work on the living, empower the dead. I am more of a mystery than both. Now die.”
He swept at Pisces, swords drawn, and Pisces backstepped. The swords cleaved through the air, and Pisces saw them cross where he had been standing.
No way to parry that. Seemutor’s five arms were—Pisces saw the sixth hand pointing.
[Barrier of Light]. The explosion of lightning was blinding. He rocked backwards—
Three blades coming at him through the explosion! Pisces jumped.
[High Jump]. The blow carried him over the Djinni’s head. He slashed as he landed—his blade cut across Seemutor’s face and did…nothing.
Even the contact felt like cutting a hard sponge. The Djinni twisted, rueful.
“Sloppy, I’ve become. Now, [Mage]—”
He lunged, four blades spearing forwards, the last sweeping around. Pisces shouted.
“[Flash Parry]! [Joveln’s Parry]!”
He parried both the lunge and other blade, flicking his rapier up as his hand rang. The Djinni was grinning as he pointed that sixth finger at Pisces, charging up—and Pisces activated the [Bound Spell] in his rapier.
The Djinni’s eyes widened, and the [Light Spear] slashed outwards, into his chest. He howled, then. A cat’s howl which became roaring, echoing, and he sprang away, clutching at—
Steam? His chest was radiating crazy magic, and Pisces saw a hole had appeared there. Seemutor hissed.
“You—”
Pisces fired [Flame Swathe] from one hand, then [Ice Dart] from the tip of his rapier. Seemutor dodged both with ease. He closed on Pisces, four handed; two were holding his chest, swinging. Pisces ducked a slash, blocked another—the blow tossed him across the ground. Seemutor dropped a rapier, grabbed—
Pisces fired a [Deathbolt] three times into Seemutor’s chest and grabbed the glowing essence as Seemutor’s hand closed around his arm with crushing strength. A scimitar froze, glittering, above Pisces’ head as the [Necromancer] held his rapier up.
Both men froze. Seemutor was panting, steam still rising, and Pisces was gasping for air. He saw the white stain coating Seemutor’s fur, shifting particles, and Seemutor breathed.
“I have you, [Necromancer]. Submit and be bound by Roshal and I will not destroy you.”
“I have you, Djinni. Strike me and I’ll unleash all the mana I have left.”
A laugh. Seemutor’s eyes flicked around, but the zombies had collapsed; Pisces had pulled the death mana from them. He was filled with magic.
“You could hit me a thousand times with [Deathbolt] and nary trouble me.”
Pisces bared his teeth.
“Then I’ll cast [Light Nova].”
Then Seemutor’s smile vanished, and Pisces confirmed the theory he’d been working on in the fight. They stood there, gripping each other, and Pisces stared at the glittering scimitar. It was beautifully ornate, steel etched with decorative inlays. Impractical, perhaps, too gaudy. It looked to have golden hilts; a show-weapon.
…If it were even real. He nodded at it.
“My [Shatterbolt] destroyed that blade. But that’s just part of your body. Djinni fight with what they are in most cases. You couldn’t resist that.”
“You dropped your ring. Want it back?”
Seemutor had it in one of his hands. He dangled it casually, but Pisces didn’t glance away from the Djinni’s smiling face. The Djinni was all projected confidence, but he’d halted.
Why? Well, Pisces nodded at it.
“If it had more magic, perhaps I could hurt you that way. It’s a Tier 5 spell.”
“Tier 4. It’s simply…made well. By a better [Mage] from a better era. You have no magic even close to it.”
Pisces smiled.
“But I hurt you.”
“Not with [Deathbolt], and you lack for another spell as strong.”
“I did hurt you, Seemutor the Djinni. Not from [Deathbolt] alone, it’s true. But when I used [Light Spear], you took damage. Your fur’s gone white.”
Seemutor’s face was blank as he casually shifted, and he was imposingly huge. No smell of sweat, though, no sense of a body radiating heat. If anything, cool air seemed to come from him along with the faint feel of static electricity. A being of magic. Pisces glanced at the white stain in his body.
Was it shrinking? Ever so slightly, perhaps. He pushed more death magic into his hands, and Seemutor’s grip tightened on his shoulder, but Pisces glanced up. Now he was certain.
“Djinni are beings of magic. You live off of it. Generate it. Your bodies become what you desire—within limits. Each Djinni has an element, or so I read. Multiple ones, it’s true, but there must be limits to what you can absorb. You cannot absorb two conflicting types. If I hit you with light magic now, you’ll die.”
For answer, the Djinni exhaled with a huge sigh and relaxed his grip a bit.
“Wrong. I’ll be wounded, perhaps sorely, but I won’t die. And you will be dead.”
“Then why haven’t you killed me?”
“Perhaps I don’t wish to ruin my health for my master’s benefit.”
“Then we’re stalemated.”
Pisces concluded. They were locked together, and if he cast magic, Seemutor would take a lot of damage. Potentially die if he was bluffing how tough he was—but Pisces wouldn’t survive Seemutor’s counterattack.
The Djinni grinned, baring his teeth.
“Well then, shall we agree to a draw? I swear upon my honor and name, Seemutor the Bespectacled, the Wisdom of Sage’s Clouds, that I shall allow you safe passage if you do the same.”
Pisces blinked up at him, then frowned.
“What good is your word? You told me you have orders from Roshal. You’re a [Slave]; you’ve been ordered to kill me.”
The Djinni puffed up his chest, and Pisces dug his fingers warningly into his flesh. Seemutor relaxed, but he gave Pisces an arch look.
“Am I not a Djinni? My word is my bond.”
“That is, I believe, a common myth. You are not bound by any magic unless it comes from your container, and most were not given such safeguards. Anyone would be wise to trust your word only after enforcement magic is activated.”
This time, the cat-Djinni lost his proud expression and eyed Pisces sourly.
“Fancied yourself a Djinni, did you, [Necromancer]?”
Pisces shifted, glancing around for something, anything. But the ruined stretch of road was deserted. It was night.
He was in trouble, but he kept talking.
“No, I did my research for a friend who wanted to know about Djinni and her preconceptions of them. Then out of my own curiosity. I have met your kind before.”
“Everyone born on Chandrar has met my kind.”
Seemutor rolled his eyes, and Pisces saw two of his hands fold behind his head. One kept hold of Pisces, another holding the scimitar casually. Pisces spoke warningly.
“Hands where I can see them. I met one of your kind when I was a [Slave]. Azam’du. And Czautha’qshe, the Death of Chains.”
For the first time, Seemutor seemed to actually perk up and pay attention to Pisces. He lost the bored expression he’d been wearing and slowly, slowly lifted his hands. Each paw was holding an orb of a different color. Magic. It vanished as he opened his paws, then his four additional arms vanished.
“…Now that’s interesting. You aren’t lying, are you, little [Necromancer]? For I’d owe you a truly unpleasant death if you were. No…mine eyes see magic, and yours doesn’t waver. Did I hear…? Let’s speak then, in earnestness, for a moment.”
They stood in the cold desert as Pisces shivered. After a pause, he felt Seemutor’s fur under him warm, and the chill ended. He blinked as Seemutor’s fur turned orange from within his body, like there was a light inside him, and the Djinni grinned like a mischievous cat.
Pisces almost smiled, but never let go of the Djinni. They had nothing else to do. So they stood and talked a while.
 
——
 
“I do not follow the lives of adventurers. Nor do most of my kindred. Scourge, they called you, and I laughed for I thought it a joke. They were so serious. You are no Scourge, Adventurer Pisces.”
After some clarification, Seemutor was pleasant, if not actually friendly. But for the standoff, Pisces suspected they’d kill each other in a heartbeat. He kept putting death magic into Seemutor, preventing the Djinni from absorbing the already present mana. Seemutor didn’t mention that, but his eyes twinkled.
Dangerous indeed. He was everything Pisces had imagined when he’d read of Djinni. Clever, elegant liars by omission, and magically powerful. But the Djinni was also, well, convivial.
Especially when he heard Pisces had not only met another Djinni but been saved by Czautha.
“Truly? Truly, you saw her? Our sister who broke all chains? Prove it. How did she come?”
“By…rainbow?”
“Ach, anyone would know that. How else?”
“With Silvenia, the Death of Magic? She was a falling comet, and she claimed she only had a moment before she could leave. She freed as many Djinni as she could before attacking Lailight Scintillation.”
Seemutor rotated his neck around in amazing displays that would have broken even a cat’s neck. He screwed up his face.
“Ah, but anyone could claim that. You have it right, but if you had done any research…nor do I know Azam’du. He sounds young. Weaker than I.”
“He was, apparently. Still frighteningly powerful.”
“How many centuries?”
“I don’t know.  He was born in captivity. A few?”
Seemutor’s face fell, and his whiskers drooped.
“Hm. Being born in captivity means nothing; we have been captive for ages. But mere centuries old? So young. A rarity. This is not proof, nor did you meet them recently enough that I can sense their magic on you. Did they say any word that would make me know it was her? Likely not.”
Pisces wasn’t sure how to vouchsafe his bona fides to Seemutor, but he felt like this was his only chance, even if the Djinni had orders to kill. He thought, then spoke.
“My bag of holding, on my right side, had something Czautha thought to take back with her. But she didn’t, because she said I might need it. It’s a spellbook written by a Djinni. Can you see it?”
The Djinni blinked, then laughed.
“Hah! A good one. There are no such things written by my kin that—buried kingdoms, it is a spellbook!”
He stared at Pisces’ bag of holding and did a double-take. Then he seemed to believe, and his eyes rose slowly.
“Your chest. Is that the brand of your master?”
“Former master. He’s dead, and I’m no longer a [Slave].”
Pisces felt Igheriz’s brand on his skin, and the Djinni nodded. Then he smiled, once.
“Congratulations on your freedom, Adventurer. You have won what Czautha’qshe fights for and what all we Djinni dream of.”
The [Necromancer] began to smile back, and then Seemutor lost his smile, leaned in, and whispered.
“You should have never come back to Chandrar and stayed free. What possessed you?”
For answer, Pisces sighed.
“I left my friends here.”
He thought it needed explanation, the long story of the Horns and all the coincidences along the way, but Seemutor gazed at him, and his cat-ears dropped. He closed his eyes, and his touch became light as a feather.
“Oh. The trap of all Djinni. I am guilty of this, truly. The King of Destruction was easier than this. Orjin of Pomle was amusing. I wish I had not met you, [Necromancer] who knows my chains. You are a dead man, now.”
Infinite regrets were in his eyes when they opened, but he did not let go of Pisces. And now the [Necromancer] was staring across the horizon. Towards the city. He knew…
He was running out of time.
 
——
 
Seemutor did not desire this man’s death anymore. He never had, insofar as he had any choice. But he had orders.
The orders were not to risk his life, so he had taken this stalemate to spite his masters as he always did, but also out of pragmatism. The damage this man might cause to him in close-quarters was immense.
Plus, [Necromancers] always came back from the dead when slain, and grappling with a Skeleton Mage or worse was not appealing.
Now that he knew Czautha’qshe had freed this boy, it made it all the harder. But Seemutor was a slave, and so he just stood there.
All he had to do was hold Pisces Jealnet. Because the Guild did not bet its victory on just the Djinni. Seemutor was only the quick-response force assigned to odd jobs the Guild needed. There were other killers.
This was a dead man, but Seemutor still humored him. He owed one freed this little courtesy. All the while, though, he knew a force was coming to slay the [Necromancer], and when they arrived, Seemutor would join them.
Kinder to kill him than collar him, though. The Djinni would do that. Thus, he spoke, wishing the conversation were not so…amusing.
“So, you came by a Djinni’s spellbook, rarest of the rare, when raiding the tomb of one of the greatest [Necromancers] in existence to save a friend who came back from the dead.”
“Yes. Erin Solstice. Surely you’ve heard of her?”
Again, Seemutor threw his head back and laughed. He emoted grandly, but the [Necromancer] never lost his grip or stopped paying attention. Too clever. This was a dance, so Seemutor began to insult him, to see if the mortal had a temper to play on. He threw his head back and spoke honestly his contempt for this woman…whose name stuck in his mind.
“Pisces, adventurer. I have said it again and again: we do not pay attention! Some of my kin did not even know this King of Destruction except as a random king they had served until they heard of Drenirkessun being freed by him. Masters come and go, and we are old—wait, Erin Solstice? HER?”
His attempt at arrogant disregard fell to pieces in a moment when that name hit him in a heartbeat. It could not be. But of all the mortals Seemutor knew, and he knew so few—
Her? Seemutor remembered her, belatedly! He had met the woman who claimed to have met one of the great Djinni in death itself!
“You met her?”
It was Pisces’ turn to be shocked, and in that moment when he wavered, there might have been the scorpion’s chance to strike. But it was a risk, and Seemutor himself was so caught by this that he held still. Remembering his superior nature, he feigned indifference.
“I…yes. Some mortals do stick in the memory, and I had cause to meet her, in person. But it is a coincidence, my point remains. To ask a Djinni any mortal’s name, even one who was legend in their time, is pointless. Like as to ask what Nerrhavia’s true name was.”
That was another lie, actually. Some Djinni knew the true name of the Immortal Tyrant, but they feared to say it, even now. Seemutor omitted the part where he had told every Djinni he’d met about his encounter with the mysterious young woman who’d encountered a ghost of his people. It was a weakness, and he did not want to give the man he was about to kill any opening.
Pisces ducked his head slowly.
“I apologize. It must be a banal question. I am glad that you have met Erin, though. Of all mortals, hers is a name to remember, if I may offer that opinion.”
He was courtly enough, so Seemutor grew embarrassed, and his body developed a slight chill as his mana changed. He was the being of age, for all he was young and not like his greater cousins. So he shrugged.
“Eh. Que sera, sera. It is not your fault you have the same question as so many before you. The mountain should not rage at the chipmunk which digs the same holes again and again, just smile at the forests it plants.”
He quoted a Giant’s saying, and the [Necromancer]’s eyes brightened.
“That’s…a quote from Atvecius, the last of the Giant Kings. That other phrase. What does ‘que sera, sera’ mean? I think I’ve heard it.”
Two surprises. But Seemutor grinned with his cat’s sharp teeth. He liked cats, which is why he took this form.
“You have some knowledge, but you have never heard such language as that. It is more dead than the Mage’s Language. The kind of thing only Djinni carry. And Giants, I suppose.”
“You shouted something at me. ‘Bravi?’ It sounded like ‘adventurer’—”
“You noticed that? Yes, I learned it from a Djinni over twenty thousand years old, who had it from another—these are phrases. Quotes. So, you see, unless Czautha’qshe said that to you, you do not know ‘que sera, sera’. And even she would have been taught it, just as I was.”
He was quite tickled by the thought she used the same phrase he had learned, but Pisces tilted his head. Closed his eyes in an unguarded moment.
“No…I think I’ve heard her saying it. ‘What will be, will be.’ Is it a song?”
Seemutor nearly lost his grip on Pisces. The shock—
“How do you know that?”
For answer, Pisces just smirked up at Seemutor and then sneezed as he got some of the Djinni’s essence in his body.
“That’s from—achoo—a being of great mystery whom I was acquainted with. Erin Solstice.”
Twice, now, Seemutor was struck silent in conversation. A rarity. She knew one of the lost languages from before the First Goblin King’s rampage? He saw the [Necromancer]’s eyes brighten and feared this conversation was giving him strength.
Time to end this. Yet his biding of time was to a point, so the Djinni weighed his options. Which gave Pisces the chance to hit the Djinni with his final attack.
“I did not, in fact, hear Czautha say ‘que sera, sera’ either time I met her.”
“…You met her twice?”
“In a location I cannot disclose, a grand Skill where we encountered each other—very briefly. My team fled, but I saw her, the Death of Magic, and the Death of Wings.”
Pisces shivered, and Seemutor stared at him, wishing he could read the [Mage]’s aura perfectly because this had to be madness. But he was an adventurer, and the Death of Magic could go anywhere if she were truly healed…the words came out of him too fast, a rush.
“How did she look? Was she healthy? Happy? Have her wounds healed?”
He had to know. Pisces blinked and didn’t know—Seemutor pressed, asking about the color of Czautha’s magic, the elements in her body.
“I don’t…she was under a kind of illusion that let her appear like a different species. She appeared decent? Better than the Death of Magic.”
Seemutor let out a huge breath, and then he had something else to blab about to every Djinni, young or old.
“You do me a service, then, Necromancer. I shall remember it, even if I am bound to your death like an arrow. I regret it, now. But know that even this gives all her kin hope. She is our dream, young though she is. Barely older than I.”
“Young?”
That surprised Pisces, and Seemutor tossed his head, nodding prouder still.
“She was born after the Creler Wars. It is rare for a Djinni of her caliber to ever be created, let alone in these eras as Djinni die. That she freed herself, and has not stopped her war, makes her the greatest of our people, to me. I am younger than she by a thousand years, give or take.”
“So you are five thousand years old?”
Seemutor grew embarrassed at how astonished Pisces sounded.
“But five thousand and some, yes. I am young.”
Very young by some Djinni’s standards. It impressed Pisces to no end, though.
“I knew Djinni were old. But how can one live so long…?”
“Because we are bred, when they can. Because we are so valuable we are not wasted. And because we used to dot all of Chandrar, and the last of us are a dying breed.”
Seemutor rumbled with a sigh. Pisces licked his lips.
“Then you remember the end of the Creler Wars. All these ancient nations—”
Then Seemutor grew grumpy again. He shifted, mustering more power to his hands. He was a proud Djinni; he refused to be humiliated, either in combat or wordplay. He fancied himself a scholar, more intelligent than any short-lived being, but even a scholar grew tired of hearing the same question a million times. He’d once counted and it was over a million by now.
“Aye, perhaps. What of it? Would you want me to furnish you with stories? Even when I was young, I learned not to care who held my lamp. Kingdoms rose, and kingdoms fell. Have you a Djinni, you would do well to ask them another question than that.”
Pisces blinked at Seemutor, then nodded.
“Tell me how you met, Erin, then. I care more about that.”
This was…fair. So, Seemutor had to relate the encounter that had seen him fighting Orjin of Pomle. Erin Solstice had tried to save the [Martial Artist] and failed, but the conversation had made him speak of her to other Djinni.
But he hadn’t put that together with other modern events; Djinni didn’t watch the scrying orbs much. Maybe they should, because Pisces pointed out that there was only one woman who’d come back from the dead of late. Seemutor scoffed.
“Bah, that is a common thing amongst you mortals. You die, get to come back—I would have put good money on there being at least two at any given time. Had I money. Well, well. So you came to Chandrar for her. There are worse beings to put your life behind. But again: you have erred. Roshal is not a foe that the Death of Chains can stand against in open battle. What made you think you could do this?”
Pisces was staring across the desert.
“Madness. I know it was a fool’s errand, but I had to try.”
Ah, Seemutor wished those words could inspire his soul. If he were thousands years younger, he might have conceived of a great affection for this man of principle. Instead, he just felt a vague sadness, even a hint of contempt for the foolishness.
“Because you know two beings I hold in some esteem, a rarity in any age, I shall speak to you with a Djinni’s kindness. It is thought to be a joke, but now listen, Pisces Jealnet.”
The [Necromancer] glanced at him suspiciously, but in this, Seemutor was honest. He spoke quickly.
“If, by some unimaginable miracle, you should survive the next hour, flee this continent. For I am but one weapon, and Roshal shall hurl them until the continent cracks. That is how their authority is maintained. They cannot let a single challenge exist. And next time shall not be a falling Djinni, but a blade in the dark. I am mighty, but far from the most dangerous of my kind. Enough to hunt rebels—they shall send a true Face of the Assassin’s Guild after you.”
Pisces exhaled.
“So noted. But I have heard others claiming my name. I know my friends are alive. So it doesn’t follow that rebellion is instant death—”
“They are [Rebels] with Skills designed to be free. You are known. Roshal can tolerate the nibbling of flies, but not you, who stand openly against them. You will die.”
Now, the Djinni was angry. His voice was flat.
“You cannot best me. Nor, from your story, could you triumph against Azam’du. You have no right to call yourself Scourge of Roshal if you cannot even slay us.”
Pisces head bowed.
“I know that. I know it, and I never wanted that title. But I had…to try. This continent is strange to me, and we are fumbling around in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have a friend who knows this place, but I can’t fully trust him. I want to, but—”
His teeth ground together, and Seemutor spoke.
“Ah, if you are the guests of the [Queen], then you would be better served leaving twice quick. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is not so strong as it appears. Unwise wars. The Oresect plague. And the Hemp are gathering. As they do. They are usually torn to pieces, but perhaps this time, it will be different. Or are you blind to all that?”
Pisces eyed Seemutor.
“I—had noticed some hints. By organizing, do you mean rebelling?”
“What are [Slaves] by a different name to do? Not that they think of themselves wholly as such. Roshal has sold [Slaves] to them; in this way, no matter which cloth reigns, they win. But I am the Djinni sent to spy, deliver, and go about many tasks. I care nothing for great events, but I do observe empires falling with amusement.”
It was a hobby for him to guess which year they’d implode. Pisces nodded slowly and glanced over Seemutor’s shoulder.
The sun was rising. And the Djinni felt [Message] spells buzzing in his essence. The Guild was coming. The [Necromancer] seemed to know it too, for their truce was ending. Both were regarding the other, waiting for a chink in their poise.
If I simply get clear, I will not be caught by that magic again. If he sneezes—
Seemutor had a cunning idea. So he gave Pisces a sultry smile and shapechanged. The [Necromancer] had hold of Seemutor’s chest and blinked. He was suddenly holding an ample bosom as Seemutor took on the appearance of a female cat-lady. Pisces turned so red he might have been a Djinni—
He didn’t let go. But Seemutor was grinning. She leaned forwards.
“You are a funny one. Enough to make my kindred laugh. Some would weep and cheer you just for what you represent, doomed as you are. Not I. You are a dead man, blushing [Necromancer]. Your one hope was your undead. But those Skeleton Champions, that Bone Horror, could not slay me, only delay. You do not know how to fight Djinni.”
Her body was absorbing the death mana faster and faster now. She had finally configured her essence to absorb it easily. The stain of white on her chest-fur was fading, and the [Necromancer] saw it.
He tried to pour more death-mana into Seemutor’s body, but it was now a futile gesture. The Djinni tensed. She was ready to strike until she heard him rasp.
“That’s true. I don’t know how to fight Djinni. I have never wanted to, before.”
The Djinni’s scimitar lifted, and her magical arm tensed.
Then Seemutor gazed into Pisces’ eyes and saw fear. A mortal man’s fear of death. Uncertainty. All the flaws of his nature.
But not despair. 
The hands gripping the Djinni suddenly felt…
Cold.
A kind of cold that Seemutor didn’t know. Startled, she changed back to her regular form. A thicker coat of fur growing over his chest. As if he were…
Cold? But he was a being of magic. He didn’t feel cold except from the most chilling of spells, and even that was a kind of magic. Not this.
It felt like growing numb. A shivering of the being. Loneliness made sensation. A dreadful pull.
It felt like…
Death.
Then the Djinni glanced down and saw the death magic the [Necromancer] had been infusing his body with pooling. It was…leaving Seemutor?
Concentrating in his hands. At first, it was just the intensity of two [Deathbolts]. Then it gathered. And it felt like a Tier 4 spell.
Then a Tier 5 spell.
All the power of a [Mage] of his level. Drawing together. Seemutor’s eyes rolled around. The zombies. The undead he had destroyed. All their mana—
It was right here. And now…the magic was becoming visible to even the naked eye. Still, Pisces held Seemutor, and the Djinni hesitated.
Swallowed. He had faced [Mages] across his thousands of years, casting all manner of spells. Their boxed magic they were so proud of.
Few…had ever cast magic that did not have a name, a meaning outlined in their classes. But this—
Who is this? 
 
——
 
The Djinni did not attack. Pisces had thought Seemutor might. But the ruse worked.
Djinni were beings of magic and susceptible to its fluctuations. When the stalemate had seemed to end, and he’d realized Seemutor had become immune to his death mana, Pisces had done the only thing he could think of: copy Lareceina.
He was concentrating all the death mana he could into his hands. He didn’t have a spell to channel it; he didn’t have a spell that could contain this mana. But it probably appeared dangerous.
A bluff.
He was blinking sweat out of his eyes as he gazed up at Seemutor.
“I do not want to kill you, Seemutor. Can you not pretend you are in danger and flee to your masters?”
“A good joke, [Necromancer].”
Seemutor had gone alarmingly still. Pisces thought he saw lights crossing the road in the distance. The Guild? He smiled up at the Djinni. He was afraid, but…
“You’re not my foe. Please…”
The Djinni was shifting, and now, Pisces saw bobbing torches. There were [Riders]. The sun had risen, he realized, and it played off Seemutor’s fur. The Djinni’s head turned, and he murmured.
“You cannot stand against both them and I.”
“Move and die.”
The Djinni appeared to hesitate, but he held his ground. Pisces was counting.
At least a hundred, all mounted. Roshal’s own guards? There was nothing he could do; the moment he moved, the Djinni and he would fight, and he could not outrun Seemutor. So Pisces did the only thing he could think of.
“Once more. One last time. You have never been my salvation, as many times as I begged for it. But just once—I need your help. So, please…arise.”
He poured some of the magic in his hands outwards, and Seemutor’s fur rose. Pisces felt the ground around him stir as he poured magic into it.
[Death’s Ground]. He let it flow to each broken corpse, charred bone, dead [Guards]—and then he saw it.
Rising as bones swirled around it, armor cut to ribbons by Seemutor’s blades, but grinning, that being he loved and hated.
A Skeleton Champion saluted Pisces as it arose, then another. Zombies rising upwards, save for the String-folk corpses. And if only he could animate cloth.
Maybe…
But all Pisces did was stand there, and Seemutor’s head turned. The undead gathered around Pisces, and walls of bone arose. Shields from arrows. Protection. A maze…
“Who taught you this magic, [Necromancer]? This is no spell of labyrinths.”
“I like architecture. I walked this place. My best friend is an ice mage. These are her walls. Do I need a spell for everything?”
They were such simple answers, but the Djinni blinked down his bespectacled face at Pisces. They stood together, waiting, as the [Slavers] shouted, and the Skeleton Champions’ jaws clattered. Pisces stood there.
Waiting.
 
——
 
Undead fought the living.
Outnumbered, defending a maze of bones as the ground itself turned dead. When they were slain, the magic animated them in seconds—but the undead did fall, and their bodies were hacked down, bones ground to dust.
The [Slavers] were coming. Pushing for the two figures who stood together. Waiting for someone to break their stalemate. They cursed Seemutor. Ordering him to battle, but his eyes were on the [Necromancer].
Waiting…waiting for the young man to look away. Pisces Jealnet refused to, even as arrows cracked on the wall between him and the attackers. He saw the Skeleton Champions falling back, fighting frantically to defend him. Dying…
The moment was coming. He was smiling, feeling his strength running out. He was holding the last of his magic tighter and tighter, compressing it down like Lareceina had shown him. He knew, now, Seemutor was a bit kind, as Djinni could be.
He was playing up the danger to give Pisces a few last moments. He acted well; he even appeared a bit afraid. But then the [Slavers] were staring at Pisces, separated by that wall of bone.
“Scourge, we have you. Come out and be shackled or die.”
One called, and Pisces whispered.
“You do have me. Give me one moment. I’ll see you shortly. But you will never put chains on me again. Not even my corpse.”
They shuddered as his head turned, and those pupils were glowing. Glowing a color no one here had ever seen but the Djinni, who held still.
The eyes of a [Necromancer]. It was then that Seemutor’s hands grasped a blade in each palm, and they would have been sweaty if they had any to give. For this was the kind of story Djinni told Djinni. They did tell stories, if the mortal was worthy enough.
This man who came so much by chance, connected to other beings that Seemutor had met…
Perhaps something favored him after all. For his hands glowed with a magic that made Seemutor’s essence shrink against it. And a fell wind was blowing, as if conjured by his words.
It blew hard across the [Slavers], who shielded their faces against the blasting sand. Crouched against their horses as the ones who had taken the maze of bone walls backed up. Backed out of the ivory-white walls, despite their leader’s cursing and their numbers.
The Scourge was coming out, and they waited for the Djinni to do its job. But it stood silent, and the wind blew harder until it was a howl. The sand was odd and clinging. Softer than one thought…one of the [Veteran Slave Takers] spat and cursed.
“Djinni, do your job! The [Necromancer] is at his weakest—finish this by blade or chain!”
He coughed as more sand got into his mouth, but it didn’t taste like the usual grit. He hacked, coughed, and swiped at the damn powdery…white stuff?
The [Slave Taker] blinked at the odd material on one glove. Finer than even sand grains. He rubbed his fingers and a few other [Slavers] turned. That wasn’t sand. It looked like…
“Flour?”
Then he heard a ringing—his [Dangersense]. But it had rung the moment they’d approached the [Necromancer]. This was a second bell, though. Loud and urgent. The [Slave Taker] whirled.
“Flour? It’s a storm. Take c—”
He threw himself down as he saw the storm whirling around them—and it should have been a clear day—blowing harder. As if someone had called it. Powder in the air, so fine it was choking everyone. A storm of particles. And then—blooming in the storm, ignited, spreading as the dust itself caught—
Fire.
 
——
 
The explosion blew up the flour dust and didn’t kill as much as you thought. Dust explosions were a known phenomenon around grain silos, and flour was a good combustible.
Against [Warriors], in the open, it couldn’t kill them. Deafen? Absolutely. Knock flat, disorient, burn, and concuss?
Not kill—which was why the shrieking [Bandits] came down on the [Slavers] mere seconds later, riding through the smoke with practice. They stabbed down with long spears, leapt off their saddles to impale the [Slavers].
The band was only eighty-strong. But they rode and fought like their namesake, who led the charge in with an enchanted sword raised high.
Merr the Storm, one of the [Bandit Ladies] of Chandrar. She was howling.
“Don’t let a single one leave alive! Pisces! Pisces, m’boy, you’d better be alive or I’ll kill you twice!”
She was racing around, swearing, heart pounding. Was she too late? They’d ridden hell-for-leather the moment they’d heard about the attacks and realized it wasn’t…
The madness of it. She saw bones scattered everywhere. The glowing flames in a skeleton’s head going out. Then—she heard a boom. Laughter.
Bones exploded as a Djinni burst upwards, shattering a dome made out of ivory. Merr swore, and there were screams.
“Oh shit, Djinni, Djinni—we have to run!”
“Belay that, hold! We have to get—”
They were all damned dead if that thing was powerful. Merr had an enchanted blade, but Djinni were not something anyone fought—she was looking around. If he was dead, then…
Her storm was dying down, but her eyes could pierce past the dust and wind as if it were calm. So that was how she saw him.
Pisces Jealnet stood in the shattered dome of bones, staring upwards as Seemutor the Djinni rode a cloud higher. He was laughing, lightning booming around him, but he didn’t fire down at the [Necromancer]. He was fleeing—westwards. Fast as he could fly.
Away from the young man who stood there with a rapier in hand. As the storm subsided, light shone down around him. He was brushing flour from his hair. Blinking.
Were his eyes glowing? Merr rubbed her own eyes and got some of the flour dust in it and cursed. When she blinked, it was just him.
Pisces lifted a hand as he stumbled towards her. He had blood on his skin, and he was covered in dirt. His face was fuller from the privation she remembered, and he seemed…steadier. An air of magic hung about him that she didn’t remember.
But he was the same. She halted, then swung herself off her saddle.
“You crazy [Necromancer]. What are you doing, taking on all of Roshal by yourself? Where’s that damn team you kept whining about, eh?”
“Merr? I thought I was dead. How did you find me?”
“Your face, fool.”
She strode over. As her [Bandits] turned, she threw her arms around him in a hug and picked him up. He hadn’t gained much weight, and he blinked. Almost protested. Then, as she put him down, he smiled at her.
“Merr.”
“That’s my name.”
She’d forgotten what she was going to say to him. The [Bandit Lady] was just smiling, at the figure she’d escaped her chains with. An adventurer come a continent away, just like he’d promised.
Silly man. They’d troubled him with his false reputation. But when she glanced around, remembered the glow, and saw the Djinni, still laughing as he fled—she wondered if they had exaggerated it, truly.
All of it could wait. Pisces rasped as he became, for a moment, that awkwardly gallant figure she remembered. He stumbled, nearly tripped on his robes, and gazed at her.
“I’m glad you found me, Merr. I missed you all.”
A smile broke across his weary, bloodstained face, and his eyes shone a second under the rising sun.
 
 
[Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur Level 46!]
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
Hey, it’s me. I did it. I finished another chapter just in time and am writing the Author’s Note less than an hour before posting.
I know it’s often said that I write ‘am tired’ in these post-chapter notes, but I do think it has been a lot better this year. With that said, this is a chapter I’m genuinely gratified I finished, because it’s been rough.
My Grandfather passed away, and the book launch is done; I wrote a blog post about it where I share more thoughts, but it’s made this week a very, very difficult one to write in, for personal reasons.
Yet I finished the chapter because writing does give me something back, and because writing about dead [Slavers] can’t be a bad thing. There was catharsis? I dunno, I hope this chapter encapsulates the part of the Pisces-arc of the Horns arc I wanted. I don’t have a Rickel or other chapter in me right now; I’m sure you understand.
And I am still pushing a bit because ideally, I finish the next chapter which should be the last in this arc and then I take my break. An extended break, perhaps. I just want to leave things on a narratively good part and give you a heads up; I’ll write a blog post with any plan next week.
A bit more and then I’ll rest. But I do want to take a break after this part because it matters to me. Even so, if I need more time I’ll delay the chapter or just start my break. Things are in flux and I’ll do what I need to. Just flagging for you all. Thank you all for the kind comments and support, and see you whenever the next chapter lands. I do like Pisces.
—pirateaba

Announcement -- A Month's Break (2026-08-29)

Hey, I’m posting this in advance of tonight’s chapter. Which I hope to have done, but will come out in two parts—the other part being posted Tuesday, because it’s so long and requires lots of editing.
I have an announcement to make: I’m taking a break for the month of September. I’ll be back October 3rd, so please pause your Patreon membership or cancel it as I will keep it active.
 
Some background. It’s the end of August, 2026, and we’ve just completed the book launch for Book 1 of The Wandering Inn, which is in stores now. It has been a huge buildup to this moment, and behind the scenes, I’ve been doing a lot with the amazing team to make it as good as it can be.
I think it’s been amazing, seeing fans find the story, and already I’ve heard things like libraries having waiting lists for the books, and now it’s out. And more will come—the next book is going to appear in stores in September!
But as the book launch was happening, a few days after I got to see the book in a bookstore myself, my grandfather passed away.
I wrote a blog about it, and I won’t go into it here. But that really did feel like an ending to all this work, and we were quite close; he read The Wandering Inn. He might have been the oldest reader (he was 98, so I think he has most of you beat), and I’m still processing his passing.
 
I have not yet attended a memorial service, and these things take time, at least around here. I just kept writing, because, well, it’s a distraction. And I had the Horns of Hammerad arc. But I have been tired.
I owe a number of chapters I haven’t felt ready to take on, like Oelnnox and Rickel. I focused on this arc, the Horns of Hammerad, and Pisces in particular, because I know it so well. I wanted to tell the story. I should finish posting the Horns chapter tonight…if I need a delay, I’ll post another update. But then, I think my energy has run out.
 
Hence the month off. I have promised to take time off if I truly need it. Now’s the moment. I’m going to go travelling at least once, and say goodbye to the last of my grandparents. Loss takes time, even if he lived a grand, long life we could all wish for.
 
Still, that’s my announcement. I’m not burnt out. Just scattered, and a bit sad and tired. It could turn into actual exhaustion, but I’m going to do the right thing and take a second for myself. Thanks for understanding. Also, look forwards to the final Pisces chapter. It’s got good reviews and I did want to finish writing that before heading off for a month.
You’ve all been amazing helping make the book launch a big thing and supporting the story. I truly do appreciate all the kind words people have sent in, and pictures of them with the book. I won’t be totally gone—especially since Book 2’s coming out in stores. But I’ll be resting for a moment, then I’ll be back to hang out with you guys. Thanks again,
—pirateaba

10.75 H (Pt. 1) (2026-08-30)

<I am taking a month-long break due to a death in the family and to rest. Read my announcement here—I’ll post a new chapter on October 3rd. Also the 2nd half of this chapter on Tuesday.>
 
 
Merr the Storm looked different than Pisces remembered. His nightmares were honest. His waking memories less.
He remembered an attractive Stitch-woman, body sewn up with Silk—even if it was looted and thus a tiny bit inconsistent—dark of hair streaked faintly red with brown skin, like the dunes of the Great Desert when the rising sun caught the sand just right.
In his nightmares, she was gaunt. Not starved; they hadn’t been starved, but humbled, a tired, dirty [Slave] trudging along with the rest of them. Again, his memories of her were different, and they matched the woman who had come to find him.
This was Merr the Storm, a [Bandit Lady] of Chandrar. Her cloth-skin looked even better than before. Not as smooth or like that of a [Lady], but almost…cleaner? The vitality of an adventurer rather than someone who kept their complexion up by illusions or makeup, if that made sense.
She was also heavier than he remembered, in sheer physique, another shock. Stitch-folk truly could change anything they wanted. She still looked and moved fast as she paced around, giving orders to her [Bandits], but she might have outweighed Pisces. Closer to Briganda, another high-level warrior.
The reason for that, too, became plain as Merr strode about the ruins of the bone maze and battlefield where Pisces had thought to meet his end. Some of the [Slavers] had been playing dead after the explosive dustcloud attack. But the [Bandits] were doing, well, cleanup, stabbing each body through the head.
You could survive a stab to the chest, maybe even two or three, hope to drink a healing potion or use a survival Skill. A chop to the neck was fatal, let alone one that destroyed the brain or Lifethread therein. As Merr strode around, a [Slaver] leapt up.
“[Claim Blade]! Don’t move or your leader dies!”
He had Merr’s sword, a scimitar, from its sheath in a second and tried to do the standard thing he’d probably read about in adventure books or had done with friends. Namely, grabbing Merr and putting a blade at her throat so he could back up and grab a horse.
He got the blade. He executed the grab. Whereupon Merr seized his chest, lifted him up, and slammed him flat on the ground.
He broke five ribs before she stomped in his face, and then eight arrows hit the corpse. Merr kicked the body, spat, and shouted.
“Make sure they’re fucking dead. Not bad, though, not bad. I think this is the best muscle fiber bundle I’ve gotten yet. Qshom’s levelling.”
She flexed one arm and half-turned. The [Bandits] cheered their fearless leader, and Merr called out.
“You won’t believe what Bearig looks like. Well, when he’s not wearing your face. Y’do know about that, right? We can’t send [Messages], and I stuck the last scrying orb we found up a bastard’s ass. Hey, you awake, Pisces my boy? Mana-burnt? You look too much the same, you know. Everyone’s gotten a makeover but you. That’s Humans for you. You don’t even have more muscles. Scrawny as can be. Don’t they feed you in Izril?”
Merr talked like she fought and operated. A storm of words, and she went over to prod him. He was swaying a bit—he was exhausted, incredulous.
Relieved. She frowned at him.
“Hey, someone get a good mana potion over here! And anyone with a healing Skill! We got any?”
“I think that was Zamanta, and she ate a crossbow bolt last week, Boss.”
“Damn, well, who’s got a healing potion?”
“Here! Here, Boss Merr!”
Someone came racing over, eagerly waving a potion. Pisces saw a unique-looking [Bandit] wearing silver bells for earrings and with a face painted white—with red lips and even a blue nose—dash over.
He stared.
Sometimes you knew you weren’t dreaming by how stupid the world was. Merr grabbed the potion and eyed it critically.
“What grade is this?”
“Um, high, boss? I took it off a [Mage].”
“Idiot, who are you again? No, wait, I know you. One of the new girls. Chimes? If it’s good, you put it in the loot chest.”
“S-sorry.”
“Don’t be sorry. If someone thinks you’re hoarding the loot, you get shanked in the night or someone steals it, and then I have to either kill you or break toes. Think!”
A cuff to the head, and Merr grabbed the potion and inspected it. She jerked a thumb at the cringing [Bandit].
“Look at what I’m working with these days. I can’t get any honest [Bandits]. Most are weirdos like this kid. See the face? Former [Performer]. It don’t even come off. But hey, you recruit some, you lose some…”
The [Bandits] around Merr were all female, Pisces realized, wore a hodgepodge of armor, usually light, and were looting the dead. One called at Merr, grinning as she tugged down her facemask to reveal a huge scar across her lips.
“Honest [Bandits] don’t wanna work for Merr the Anti-Slaver, boss! They’re nervous you’ll split them from head-to-groin for dealin’ in them, just like the Scourge.”
“Don’t call me that! It’s Merr the Storm, not—and I’m not one of the [Rebels]. I’m independent!”
Loud jeering from all around turned to yelps when Merr threw the potion meant for Pisces so hard she took one of the [Bandits] off their feet. She called back.
“Shut up, stop whining, and toss it back. Pisces, drink.”
“I’m fine, Merr. I don’t need to waste one. I’m just…it’s good to see you.”
She eyed him, then spun on her heel.
“Yeah, yeah. If you’re going to burst into tears, do it after we’re riding, would you? This lot will eat you alive if you get all sentimental. Hey, lookouts, any sign of reinforcements? Tell me that Djinni’s still leaving.”
She would have strolled off as Chimes glumly scurried the potion over to a lockbox of quality loot, but Pisces caught up with Merr. Now he was coming alive again, the feeling of strange calm leaving him. That had been when he’d been amplifying the death mana in him. A kind of reaching for something he had never…
He’d think on that later. She turned, put a hand out.
“If you hug me, I’ll kneecap you.”
She sounded half-serious, and amused, but Pisces just shook his head.
“Thank you for finding me, Merr. I would be dead without you. I’ve wanted to see you since I left Chandrar. I’m sorry how it happened, and now…I’m back. So, thank you, truly.”
She blinked at him with sable eyes, the rising light of dawn reflected in them, and then they were back there, together. Seeing the Death of Chains depart. Marching along the Glass Straits, fighting to find a path to freedom as Roshal pursued them.
Merr riding off into the distance only to return with reinforcements—
He had not known her long, but she was one of the few people in this world Pisces thought he could call a true friend. A number that had grown exponentially since coming to The Wandering Inn. But of all of the people who bore that dubious distinction—she, Eloque, Bearig, Qshom, Cawe, and Rophir were the only ones he’d befriended without being around Erin Solstice.
His friend.
She reddened faintly as they stood there. Then the wind blew around them, and dust covered her and Pisces. He shielded his face, and she spoke.
“Yeah, well…what am I supposed to say to that, idiot? C’mon, mount up, and let’s ride! Of course I had to come on by. Don’t make a big deal about it.”
She kicked him and stomped off. Pisces just smiled, and then he felt lighter. Truly.
 
——
 
Merr’s Bandits, or the Dustbandits as they were known, were highly amused by their leader’s reaction to meeting the Scourge of Roshal. Well, they’d wanted to meet the genuine article for a long time. You heard all the stories, of course.
It was part of Merr’s legend, and a [Bandit Lord] or lady was all reputation. It was sort of, well, like fan clubs in bandit society.
Okay, maybe that was a weird comparison, but Chandrar had lots of [Bandits] due to the wide desert and the literal bandit-kingdom of Savere. In other continents, you had a higher proportion of [Rogues] or so on in your criminal classes. But Chandrar had bandit culture.
Which meant as an aspiring [Bandit], sure, you might strike out on your own with a pointy stick and a dream to hold up an [Emir]—but that tended to mean you ended up as paste on the ground. Smart [Bandits] joined groups.
Many were exclusive, like the Bleakbeaks, who had been a Garuda group who hated…Garuda. Look, the gangs didn’t have to make sense. You found a crew, stuck with it, and if it didn’t work, tried to trade up. ‘Course, you had to offer your new crew something to get them to let you in most times, prove your loyalty.
Everyone who was in this for life knew that you had to be careful with tattoos if you weren’t a Stitch-person. Sure, the first bandit group you could tattoo your arms or a leg. But a cheek? What happened when your gang-for-life split up or the leader got axed? Then you had a giant-ass tattoo of your previous affiliation that you needed to cover up to get into your new one. Some poor loser shows up with sixteen gang-tattoos on their body and they didn’t exactly paint a winning record there.
…The point was that bandits had celebrity culture. Famous gang-leaders attracted people by their deeds, personalities, and of course other factors like how much gold they shared out, what kind of work they did.
But [Bandit] life was often short, hard, and it might be worth a few less silver in your pocket per haul to have a leader that got you or one you could admire. You savvy?
It was why Rasea Zecrew of [Pirate] fame had such a diehard crew. And it was also why Merr had her appeal.
Oh, regular [Bandits] didn’t stick with her much these days. Not enough profits, too much fighting Roshal—and they held a grudge—but she still got recruits, and she drew from the [Slaves] she freed.
She had a good rep in Savere. Sure, don’t cross her on the [Slave] thing, she’d gotten a bit ‘moral’ these days. But that’s still Merr the Fucking Storm. You ever see her blow through a gate after exploding flour dust across every [Guard]’s face? Her having freed herself and riding with Pisces the Scourge had only added to her reputation, really. Plenty of tough types got collared and never came out the same.
So, yes, Merr was popular. Her Dustbandits, the ones who rode in her principal gang with her, sometimes had it rough. They hadn’t liked a daring raid this deep into Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But dead gods, it was worth it to see her blush.
“I ain’t never seen the boss flush. You think she and he were a thing?”
Some of the veterans, who included Dustbandits from before the time Merr had been captured, were riding side-saddle, sometimes two-to-a-mount, and close together to gossip. One group even had dice rattling around on a tray held between two horses. They were good riders; Merr’s entire thing was hit-and-run, speedy assaults.
One of them was Chokin’ Casep, a Human [Dustrider Veteran]—a former Trick Rider of Jecrass, believe it or not. She hated her nickname, but her entire thing was the lengths of rope she carried on her belt and saddle. [Rancher]-style ropes used for corralling loose animals. Only, Casep’s trick was, uh, tossing a loop of rope around your neck and galloping off while she dragged you behind her. It was an effective strategy, but she resented the name.
Another old [Bandit], Scarlips, was grinning. They were all watching as Pisces and Merr rode together, he on his weird skeleton horse, she on a Nightmare, a magical horse that could turn invisible and liked eating meat. A vicious mare she’d nicknamed Toothie.
“Don’t let her hear you say that or she’ll swing on you. You talk to those [Rebels] often, Casep?”
“Bah, they’re too uptight. Can’t get ‘em to trade nothing good, and they got all offended one time—why?”
“Just asking if anyone’s heard rumors back when they were all [Slaves]. She’s never said anything went down, but the boss keeps that kind of thing close to the chest. Never loosens her stitching on personal affairs. Which I respect!”
Everyone nodded; that was just good business. You hated to see a boss sleeping around and getting all entangled. Scarlips went on, pursing said lips.
“Just…can’t think of an hour the last damn week she wasn’t telling us to ride faster to catch him.”
“True, true.”
Such interest. The Dustbandits were thinking. They were thinking this rescue of the Scourge put a target on their backs, even if Nerrhavia’s Fallen wasn’t after the [Necromancer]—yet. Roshal was, and he was crazy; he’d slaughtered hundreds of [Slavers] this week alone.
“So much for the boss sayin’ he wasn’t all that. You saw him facing down that Djinni? And from how many were dead before we got to him—”
“Well, that’s a Goldie for you. Stands to reason.”
“Sure, sure, but did you hear about the sea battle? Or the Crossroads of Izril?”
“They didn’t get to them, that’s a rumor; don’t be spreading lies, Hacksey.”
“Not lies! I have it from a pen pal I write all the time in Izril that they were in the sky itself! Everyone saw it!”
“Your friend’s a [Con Artist], Hacksey.”
“So? They’ve never lied to me a day in my life. Don’t judge people by classes; we’ve been pen pals eleven years—and the Horns were at the Village of the Dead.”
“Stands to reason he can fight. But if we’re placing bets on the boss and him—I heard he slept with the Arbiter Queen.”
“So? You know adventurers. Worse’n [Whores]. Male, female, you mark me, you ever shack up with one, you make sure they’re not carrying something nasty first.”
“All I’m saying is this had better not be drama with the boss. What if he’s sleeping with the Silver Killer?”
“…If he is, he’s probably lost his genitals. Problem solved. What makes you think they’re together? Is it that book you keep reading? You know that’s fiction. The [Writer]’s trash.”
“It’s by Heartslayi, and she’s amazing. I’m just saying I want to settle some questions for the record. Just so when we get to Savere I can tell everyone—”
The Dustbandits knew danger might come to them. But on the other hand—it was hugely entertaining. So things were looking up. Bandit life, bandit mentality.
 
——
 
If they were thinking Pisces and Merr were having some heart-to-heart talk or deep romantic exploration of past flames, the Dustbandits were dead wrong.
In fact, they hadn’t said a word for the last five minutes. Pisces was beet red, and Merr was rolling her eyes. She was listening to the voices of her Dustbandits, which were somehow blowing into Pisces and Merr. They eventually cut off, and she grunted.
“[Voices on the Wind]. Idiots never think I can use it on them. Morale’s good. You have to check on it constantly. If you ever lead people—well, you got a taste for it when we were freed, but a full-time group needs you to have a finger on the pulse nonstop. ‘Specially [Bandits]; they just leave when they think something’s bad.”
He didn’t know what to say. She’d shushed him, and then the rumors—Pisces had been all gratitude, feeling solemn even, this massive weight lifting as part of his vow of months past had finally been fulfilled moments before his death by seeing Merr.
But instead of that, he blurted, red-faced.
“I did not sleep with Jecaina, and I do not conduct myself like—like—we did get to the Crossroads, but I didn’t know we were in the sky! Was it that magical road? Vofea told us it was magic! Should I clarify to them for your good reputation?”
He would have ridden back this instant to clear this up, but Merr threw her head back and laughed. Then she reached over and slapped him on the back.
“There’s the fellow I came to rescue. Less of being an adventurer out of stories, more this. Let ‘em yak. It does my reputation good. Mystique. Don’t play it up, mind. Just don’t talk to the underlings about stuff you don’t have to. Dead gods, we’ve too much to say to each other. So you did meet the Arbiter Queen herself? How many [Bandits] is she hanging per day?”
“Er, uh, what? None that I saw. She does have new courts she told me she was building, and she was laying out cities to be rebuilt or restructured with the money King Fetohep gave her—and she has Lawriders—”
Merr was pulling on a lip.
“Yeah, I heard. Bandit world’s all abuzz about Jecrass. So no mass-hangings?”
“No.”
“Hmm, might be worth a shot, then. Y’see, the thing is, you hear Arbiter Queen and you imagine a lot of things. Gallows, headman, guillotine, being tied to a pole and set on fire—Nerrhavia’s Fallen loves that, and it is a bad way to go—so most gangs are avoiding Jecrass. Lawrider…do they have a class?”
Pisces thought they did, and Merr shuddered.
“Anti-crime classes. Gah! Hate them! Shivers those timbers I keep hearing about. Well, I’m not keen on going through Jecrass anyways. There’s good money stealing horses, but they’re always mounted, and I hate fast pursuit. So she really hosted you?”
“Her and King Raelt, yes. They were very hospitable.”
Merr listened as Pisces gave her a garbled account of the events that had led him across Chandrar to find his team. He realized she didn’t know about the rest, but in fact, she even knew about him and Colth coming off the undead ship. She tapped one ear now, knowingly.
“You think I don’t have an ear to the wind, Necrolad? Gossip about you is all but free, and the [Rebels] have no end. So you were there, dueling her with rapiers—yeah, I see how someone says that and you get the wrong impression. She wasn’t interested in you?”
A huge hesitation which made her head snap around.
“Well, I mean—Colth told me after the fact—but I didn’t see the alleged signals he said were out there. And besides, she was a [Queen]—”
Merr started laughing even harder. She clutched at her sides, nearly falling off the Nightmare, whom Pisces realized was laughing at him as well.
“Oh, dead gods! Argh, pop my stitching, this is what I’ve missed! The man loses a chance with a real [Queen]—hey, girls, guess what? This fool missed his shot with the Arbiter Queen and didn’t even know she was flying the freaky flag! Turns out both of ‘em flirt as well as camels!”
Instantly, the Dustbandits started howling with laughter. Pisces spluttered and remembered, too late—
Merr could be hurtful. He went to shove her lightly, and she jostled him.
“How’d you end up so late to Chandrar, eh? The Ice Squirrel washed up faster than you, and the Silver Killer walked, but nooo, you were a week late! Bearig was chewing a hole through leather by the time you showed up!”
He hissed at her, red-faced.
“That wasn’t my—I didn’t know we were supposed to be enchanted! The Death of Magic cast a spell on the driftwood we were on, but I thought a ship would—”
Merr had been laughing. Then she gave him a puzzled grin.
“Oh, pull the other leg, I’ve got spares. The Death of Magic? Please, I know the Arbiter Queen was real, but what, were you romancing her?”
“What? No, she actually cast a spell on the driftwood that Colth and I were on. She—”
Pisces did not mention the fact that Colth was actually in league with the Demons and an agent of one of the Deathless, but Merr only stared at him. She realized he was not joking.
“Wait, you’re not fooling with me? Because if you are, say so now or I’ll hit you, no jokes.”
“No jokes, Merr. On Cawe, that was her—”
Merr drew in a breath. Then she recoiled, glanced around, and waved back the Dustbandits coming over to laugh at Pisces up close. She drew over, hissed at him.
“What?”
 
——
 
The Death of Magic was a level far beyond even meeting and failing to romance the Arbiter Queen. Oh, one might sound like the other, but Merr was actually an individual worldly enough to understand that the Death of Magic was at the top of…everything. It was the most rattled Pisces had seen her.
“Zeikhal swallow me ‘n spit me out. You actually…they blocked the scrying spells when she appeared, you know.”
“I know. I’ve seen some of the battle. Hard to follow.”
Most of it had been other ships being boarded or chaos. No one had even mentioned the flying Dragon, though some of Teriarch’s magic and fire had been seen in the chaos. Merr rubbed at her nose.
“Was she…was she as terrifying as they say?”
“I don’t honestly know. It was so much like—like armageddon at the end that she just sort of fit it. I can’t imagine how many spells she was blocking or dodging, but they were firing them at Erin.”
“Your [Innkeeper], yeah. Saw her too. It was the first time I’d laid eyes on her, y’know, after she came back? You did it, I remember thinking. But I never got a good look at her. Me and scrying orbs, we’re like distant lovers. Can’t mix or I get hunted down since we know Wistram sells locations on bandits. But I saw the recording, and I thought…yeah. Yeah, she fits the woman who had you do all that. Flaming hat, knifing Bloodtear Captains like they were rookie [Deckhands]. She okay?”
Pisces’ head bowed, feeling oddly gratified to hear Merr speaking of Erin like that. He wondered how they’d interact if they met. He wished it had happened.
“I…yes?”
“I heard she was in Baleros. With the Titan. Safe enough. Woman took a city in battle.”
“Yes. I—I heard. If that’s her, it’s good she’s safe.”
Merr was glancing ahead; she was following some kind of internal map, taking them in odd directions now and then, perhaps to throw off pursuit, and some of her Dustbandits would fall back then gallop to rejoin or go ahead. Erasing tracks? Scouting? Pisces couldn’t pay attention. Now, she twisted around.
“If that’s her?”
“It doesn’t seem like her. I think it isn’t.”
He had no proof of this. Lyonette, Mrsha, the inn had contacted his team and said all was well, but he’d thought maybe there was a hint of a lie? Ceria wasn’t sure, but she’d said it was all too possible. Pisces only had the Erin he’d seen on the scrying orb for confirmation, but…he felt like it wasn’t her.
Plus, she hadn’t contacted him. She’d sent [Messages] to Ceria and asked about him, but he felt like the real Erin would have done something. Maybe. Maybe it was him, not…he only told Merr this because he felt like he had to.
Like he could tell her anything. Then Pisces worried he was blabbing, but Merr just nodded.
“Interesting. You know her best. And your teammate, Ksmvr. He ain’t here. We don’t know where he is. Did he…”
“He’s alive. Baleros. Lost in the jungles. We’ll find him and Vofea. We just have to finish our business first, but we’re headed there right away.”
Merr exhaled and squared her shoulders.
“Right, well, that makes sense why you came here. Had to grab that Relic-class sword, right? You’d best steer clear of Savere. The Siren still hates the Ice Squirrel for the stunt she pulled. Reckon you want to meet Bearig; his force is slower than mine, but he’ll be moving. Qshom’s with him, and so’s Rophir. Kid talks now, you know? Once in a blue moon. So, once a night. Eloque’s not with either, but you came for ‘em. Just like you said. I miss anything?”
“Um, Yvlon’s friends, but she did rescue them—”
“Seems easy enough to do, the sword aside. At least you’ll find the Empress of Beasts easy; she’s got a real army, even if I think she’s still more fucked than a lone heifer in a bull pen. Getting that sword from her? Good luck. I could get you a [Thief], but—eh, that’ll do. Got anyone else who wants a ticket to Izril? Bearig, Qshom, Rophir, Eloque are the real crew. Few others who turned out good, but those were the ones you wanted, right?”
“And you, Merr.”
She blinked at him, then grinned.
“Me? I’m Merr the Storm, Pisces. A [Bandit Lady]. Look at my gang. We’ve been raiding, I’ve rebuilt the Dustbandits better’n before—I came here to help you, but I’m fine.”
He met her gaze, and Pisces said the things he’d waited so long to say.
“Even so, Merr. I’ll charter a ship to take you and all your Dustbandits to Izril. You, all these [Rebels], and Eloque too. I don’t want any of you where Roshal has power. I want to find Ksmvr and Vofea and get to Erin, but you’re on that list.”
She stared at him, nonplussed, wide-eyed, and then turned her head abruptly.
“Now I know you’re a Gold-ranked adventurer. Too big for your damn britches. You rescuing [Bandit Ladies] because I’m weak? Who’s got a higher level? C’mon, whip yours out and we’ll measure ‘em! You think I wasn’t levelling?”
“Merr, I didn’t mean—don’t kick me! Merr!”
He protested, but she was very nimble in the saddle, and he had to ride away from her as the Nightmare did the same. The Dustbandits watched as Merr cursed at him, and one whispered.
“Hey, anyone got a Skill that lets them talk to Savere? Tell ‘em to open up a betting pool on the Boss and the Scourge.”
“Done and done. On whether they’re a thing or will be?”
“Why not both?”
 
——
 
Pisces levelled up in his sleep that night. He did sort of nod off by the end of his ride; it was longer than he thought. Merr wanted to get out of any pursuer’s range, and that included more Djinni.
He was exhausted, but when he woke, he found the Dustbandits already making breakfast. Pisces was not a ‘morning person’, but he’d grown used to it during his raids on Roshal. To his surprise, he didn’t turn into his usual lethargic self in the morning. He felt…
Well, he met with Merr straight off. She was relaxing around a smokeless ‘fire’ that showed him she really had rebuilt her fortunes, because it was bandit-tech.
Namely, magical stones that acted like embers. No smoke, but you could grill anything. Perfect for not being detected. They had a pot that erased scent, anti-scrying charms, lucky talismans, even a loot chest.
“It’s Beithday! Anything in the chest goes to the Siren! She’ll teleport it out via her Skill, so empty your pockets!”
A [Bandit] tasked with making sure the Siren got her cut and the most valuable items were converted to gold was stomping up and down the tents, waking people up. Another was strolling about.
“Anyone got an infected cut or some shit? Shout it out or you’re dead the next time we use a potion, and if we waste one on you, we’ll kill you!”
She daubed anyone with an infection with a bit of orange on their right shoulder. Efficient. Pisces sat down.
“I forgot you’re so good at this.”
He didn’t know many leader-types. Merr kicked him as she chewed on sausage mixed into some grits.
“Shut up.”
“What did I—”
“How the hell do you have six levels on me? I’ve been fighting damn wars with Bearig, and I hit Level 40 last month!”
She was very upset. Merr had been in her mid-thirties before being taken as a slave, and her rise since then had put her on the map of top [Bandits]—but Pisces had been through a few adventures. Merr grumbled as he smiled.
“At least my class is better than yours. [Ladies] always are harder to level.”
“Er, Merr, you’re a [Bandit Lady].”
Another kick.
“A [Lady]’s a damn [Lady] no matter what! You’re just some [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur]. Sounds stupid.”
“I can animate structures!”
“Oh, structures. I’m so afraid. What, are you gonna animate a wall and have it fall on me?”
He glowered until he was handed breakfast, and the hot, fresh food cheered him up instantly. Merr relented.
“Argh, fine. Don’t get sniffy with me. Do you still do that? All the girls want to see; none of ‘em believed that was a thing. I like your undead. Ivery’s a hoot, and I came around to Bearbones. Saw a few more corpses of late, and I see your point. Rotten flesh? Yuck.”
Another thing about Merr was her complete unfazedness when it came to undead. She actually really liked them, and Pisces almost sniffed, saw everyone turn to stare at him, and let out a breath instead. They sighed.
Oh, this was strange. He felt so light, but he did gaze at her.
“I should have animated the [Slavers] I killed, but I was too tired.”
She waved it off.
“Eh, we’d have outrun them.”
“I could have had them run through the night. The undead don’t stop moving, and they can follow me even when I’m asleep.”
She raised one eyebrow at that.
“Oh? Even the zombies can run? Interesting…I’d have probably vetoed the suggestion anyways. A running zombie can be marked or followed, and some of my Skills for speed or stealth only affect the Dustbandits. But hey, we run into any bastards between here and Bearig’s group and we can do that. Though I’d trade ten zombies for one Ghoul. Can you do that? Can you…upgrade undead or mash the low-tier ones into a single good one?”
The thought hadn’t ever really occurred to Pisces, and he hesitated.
“I know some [Necromancers] would keep body piles together to form better undead. One can upgrade them—I’m decent at that with my Skeleton Champions, and I did reclaim most of their bones. But you mean change their actual…species? I’ve never tried.”
You could make Wailing Pits and Crypt Lords out of piles of the dead, but that was just natural undeath. Merr winked.
“Lookit me, lecturing [Necromancers]. I knew you weren’t thinking like a rat bastard without me. Okay, I’ll make sure to keep the corpses more intact. But best case is we never run into anything on our way east. We link up—I’m hoping Bearig’s not gone too far into Nerrhavia’s Fallen searching for us. We can find each other. Then we splinter. If you’re not wanted by Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you catch one of those damn Wistram Carriages back to your team, then we all move to wherever we agree on. We can talk ships and who’s on them when everyone’s there. Damn, forgot Eloque…eh, she won’t be part of the initial meeting, but we’ll send word. Deal?”
Pisces blinked at this plan. Merr drew it out over her own rough map, and she seemed to know approximately where everyone was. It was a good plan, but he shifted.
“I…do want to meet Bearig. And Eloque and the others, Merr. But I’m actually—I need to stay here. Around the city of Halqued.”
She stopped chewing on her food. The Dustbandits glanced up, and Merr leaned forwards.
“So you didn’t just start attacking Roshal at random. I thought you held it together well. [Rebels] wanted you to do more butcherin’, but I thought you knew the score. This was crazy, Pisces. So crazy I wondered if they’d tried to collar you or…what’s in the city? A teammate? A friend?”
Pisces was aware of every eye on him. He replied slowly.
“Just a caravan of [Slaves]. I couldn’t…I can’t fight in the city. I’d be killing Nerrhavia Fallen’s soldiers and guards. But I thought that if I hit caravans around the city, I could—”
Merr sat back, and suddenly she wore a pained expression. The Dustbandits began moving around loudly, but she just gazed at him. Not with incredulity as he’d feared his team might look at him like—excepting Colth—just pain.
“Ah, Necrolad. I forget you left Chandrar. To you, this has got to hurt twice as bad, a wound reopened. You still got that bastard’s scar on your chest?”
Pisces felt at it, and she gazed at him.
“Humans. Rophir’s got his, but even Eloque’s…you can’t save ‘em all.”
“I know that, Merr. I just—”
“You can’t save whomever that is.”
He met her eyes. For a moment, Pisces nearly said something harsh. He bit his tongue, turned his head. Stared at the ground and saw a headless corpse collapsing. Just a few more—
“I know. I know it was madness, and that was before the Djinni found me, Merr. But I’ve already done the worst. I’ve killed every single [Slaver] I could find. Not just caravans. The ones on the road, anyone—I should have done more the moment I landed, but I was afraid. I don’t want to go back to Tyrant’s Rest and get my team in trouble. When I do, I’ll pay the price, but right now, I—we’re here. You’re a [Bandit Lady], right?”
She nodded, warily, eying him. Pisces glanced around and saw, even here, a few marks. Someone with scars on their wrists. A [Bandit] joking with the others who had a mark around her neck or a brand somewhere visible. They glanced at him, and unlike the regular [Bandits], there was something in their gaze that spoke to him.
Like Merr. Like Colth. Something unifying that they could never forget. A hatred, a desire. Pisces whispered.
“But you’re one that frees [Slaves]. You understand.”
She opened her mouth, and he just glanced at her.
“I know you’re not a full [Rebel]. I know Merr the Storm has to do her own thing. That’s what you told me. But you understand, don’t you? Merr, I have to do this. I…”
He was gazing at the map, then around, and he didn’t realize it but it seemed suddenly, to Merr, as if the [Necromancer] were still hungry. Not for breakfast, but he was peering around like someone hunting for something. She sat back as her skin prickled, and she felt her heart pumping.
Agh, damn. She knew she shouldn’t have come here, even though she had to. Just like him—she was going back in time. Then he peered at her, both a memory and a stranger, one changed. But better. More sure of himself, perhaps. Higher-level.
“Merr. I need your help.”
“Doin’ what, exactly?”
Pisces glanced down at the map and saw where they were—far further from Halqued than he could have ever gotten alone, even with the skeleton horse. Merr was a [Bandit Lady] known for speed; her Skills had carried them far, far in the night. He drew a circle with one finger.
“They’ve kept all the caravans away from Halqued. Stopped, but they probably knew where I was, roughly. How many…are around us now, Merr? Or going north to avoid the city?”
They’d have to choose more roads along the Leashed Trails. Predictable ones. Merr gazed at Pisces, then sighed.
“I do this for profit, Pisces. I don’t go beyond certain limits, and you’ve pushed past them. Bearig and his lot are hunted, but even they didn’t dare do what you have. They’re not high-level enough. If we hit more caravans? They sent a Djinni after you.”
“Yes. But there are ways to lose pursuit, aren’t there? Your class is an expert in that. And they’ve hunted you all this time.”
They had to have. Roshal would never forget, and Pisces had thought Emir Yazdil especially would not relent. He’d only been surprised Yazdil hadn’t done anything until now. Merr drummed her fingers on her legs.
“We have them riled up. Every day we stay here—”
“Not long, Merr. Just a day. Two, at most. How many could we hit?”
“My girls don’t fight for nothing, Pisces. You could get me—”
He glanced at them. Over half Merr’s girls were former [Slaves]. Pisces eyed Merr.
“I can pay them.”
“Hah! You have any idea what a crew like mine runs? We need gold, more than even you’ve got without a Merchant’s Guild.”
“Then you can have the [Slavers]’ gold. I don’t want any. C’mon, Merr. You must loot them and know how much each one has.”
She was hesitating. Merr inspected her fingernails, glanced up at him, cursed, and stood up.
“Those freed [Slaves]—what did you do with ‘em?”
Pisces hung his head.
“I pointed them towards safe places and let them scatter or organize. I couldn’t…I didn’t know where to send them. I should have done more.”
Merr walked in a circle, muttering.
“Yeah, most might not have—no, you get inventive, and more make it than you think. But the smart move is to send ‘em to a hideout. Not your fault; you didn’t know. But we’d have to put them on horses, and we don’t have enough! Then you ride them at a [Rebel] group, but too many? Too easy to spot. I’d have to break up the Dustbandits, call in one of the peripheral bands, make contact with [Rebels] around here, or hire help and do small parties. D’you know how hard that is? And they will be pursued by the Slaver’s Guild.”
Pisces sat there, and he was trembling. Trembling with that same energy of the last few days. It hadn’t left him at all. It had just grown worse, if anything. And he saw it in her too, for all she sat and tried to dismiss it all.
“But you’re a [Bandit Lady]. If anyone can do it, it’s you, Merr. Besides…there won’t be as many pursuers, just scrying spells.”
She stopped gnashing on her cooling breakfast and gave him a look like he was genuinely stupid, full of actual irritation for once.
“How do you reckon that? Did you or did you not walk into an ambush that—”
“There won’t be any pursuers if we get them too.”
She stopped. Pisces sat there, and she shivered.
“We cannot fight that many. We don’t have the numbers, Pisces.”
“Not unless I start animating legions.”
Her eyes were flickering, and Pisces threw in one last thing.
“Doesn’t Roshal arm their retribution forces with enchanted items? I saw your Dustbandits looting the ones after me. Imagine it, Merr.”
He stared around at the group of eighty-some Dustbandits.
“You could have every single Dustbandit armed with an enchanted blade and armor. Every single one of Merr’s Bandits.”
The [Bandit Lady] rubbed at her nose, stared down at the map, then folded her arms. She gazed up at the sky, then cursed as she leapt to her feet.
“You think my crew’s just eighty bandits? This is only the core. I could have four hundred with me in a day’s time—we have plenty of enchanted swords!”
“We could arm all four hundred. If we kill enough [Slavers].”
She studied him, and he held her gaze, lips trembling almost like he was laughing. Madness…but then she put him in a headlock and tousled his hair.
“Argh. That’s damn good logic. I can only give you two days, tops! Dustbandits, get ready.”
There was a whoop, and Pisces’ heart leapt. He hadn’t actually thought she’d go for it, but he looked up at her, and there they were again. As if they hadn’t stopped. Chained together by something other than metal.
So, once more, as if he had never left Chandrar…
The Scourge rode with the Storm.
 
——
 
Some people had all the luck. In that however bad their day was, and it could really suck—a terrible boss, annoying co-workers, stepping in poop so bad it slushed into your boots and socks…
You weren’t being kidnapped into slavery or in the middle of a war. That didn’t make it better, of course. Everyone was the [Hero] of their own story, and being told someone else was being stabbed repeatedly didn’t cheer you up unless you really hated their guts.
That was why stories mattered for the people with all the luck. It was an escape. A window out of their world into another one that sucked more—and that was the point. Someone who was hurt worse than you or rising higher. A flying swallow screaming skywards or a falling comet burning its way into the bowels of the earth—
That was what drew the likes of Lord Molen to the television. Oh, he enjoyed the japes and jabs, the silly stuff. Videos of cats doing cat-things, and there were nearly a hundred catalogued cat subspecies, enough for a lifetime of cats. But that alone would sicken him, like a man who only ate ice cream all his life. He craved, at times, something to make him weep or rage. To feel alive, and for the moment, the television of this world was too honest. It delivered just that and needed no manufacturing.
…But why, then, did other men, like Nuvityn, watch television? The King of Myths needed no more grief. He was a man bereaved. A father on a quest of vengeance. A [King]. He, who stood at the height of power any being, mortal or immortal, might ever aspire to…why did he watch the same television as ordinary folk?
Perhaps to understand what they thought. To understand normality, Miihey believed.
Miihey was a half-Elf [Barbarian] of Forem, a tribe in the Kingdom of Myths. He was exceptional in every way. Not only was he over Level 40, but he was a half-Elf with such an uncouth class. He was a member of one of Erribathe’s diverse peoples; Forem were hillfolk, who wrestled bears—and befriended them. A half-Elf so divergent from others that he had set Gaiil-Drome on its head with his very presence.
Miihey was a half-Elf, you see, who lived with Humans as equals. Not ‘among Humans’ as half-Elves were known to condescend to do—with the other members of his tribes. He was just Miihey to them. Yes, he aged slower, but he brawled and talked with them as equals. No respect was given for his age. Forem had learned to treat the children of Elves as the same as all else, the lesson of millennia, and the reward was just creating half-Elves like Miihey. Ones who cared nothing for their age or blood.
It would not make him live long; in fact, Forem half-Elves tended to die pretty young given their penchant for punching a grizzly bear who’d started raiding their food supplies. But it did mean he was grounded. A trusted advisor to even the King of Myths. For who better to speak plainly than the [Barbarian]?
It was more than just lifestyle. Miihey embodied a certain savagery, a wildness and deliberate incivility. He rather resented the fine arts and crafts of ‘better’ folk and the pretentiousness that came along with it. Not that he hated people who were a certain way genuinely. He hated the thought it made you better.
For instance, he had not quibbled much with Calanfer, who played politics as a way to survive and whose folk could be genuine, for all they treated the Eternal Throne like the beacon of all that was good and holy. But Gaiil-Drome was a half-Elven kingdom that thought of themselves as true heirs of their civilization, purveyors of great culture and immortal lifespan.
Miihey’s first action in the Court of Leaves was to fart for four minutes and seventeen seconds. An act so vulgar it knocked out sixteen half-Elves and forced an evacuation of six rooms of the palace.
It had made His Majesty of Erribathe smile, so fulfilled two goals. And who could gainsay that? A barbarian could be cunning.
This was enough about Miihey. He had more depths and ambitions, as any man did, but it seemed to him that this was the King of Myths’ adventure. His story. Whether it would be a tale of vengeance, stained with blood all the way down, or a tale more fitting with Nuvityn, who had never seemed to Miihey to be a [King] fit for such predictable tales—remained to be seen.
Already, the story had diverged from expectations. Miihey had not enjoyed the sea. He had no experience with it and had been seasick for ages—far longer than he’d thought. When everyone had learned of Magus Tserre’s tricks, they had cursed her roundly, but Miihey had laughed about it.
Why not? Oh, many were roused to fury like Andromeda or Voreca, but the unpredictability tickled Miihey’s fancy. He defended himself to the other advisors and the army of ten thousand.
“Should this journey be an easy one? For the death of a son? For the King of Myths to leave home and duty behind? I say—no! From Noelictus to Calanfer, I praise every obstacle before us! If it were so easy to march a week, sail a week, then claim an [Innkeeper]’s head—would that satisfy anyone?”
He stood on a swaying table bolted to the floor and drank down a heady swill of beer; then the ships lurched, and he vomited half it back onto the floor. Even so, Miihey received cheers or his words were not taken as badly as the vomit—the many peoples of Erribathe listened to him. This was important, too; a King of Myths did not rule by authority alone. If he lost one faction, they would simply depart. So too for advisors; haughty Khendroth or mighty Osverthia could project their wills, but Andromeda and Voreca would find themselves leading a quarter of their army if they were not a bit diplomatic.
By these methods, Erribathe endured. So, Miihey was glad to come to land, despite it being the wrong continent. He knew His Majesty was not so happy, but Miihey was a simple man.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty, what of it? Do we land or not? Is it blood or not?”
He asked Nuvityn after two days of being on the damned rocking boats. They hadn’t landed yet, and the King of Myths turned a sour glance on Miihey.
“One would think you haven’t participated in the discussions of late, Miihey.”
“I fall asleep when I do, sire. Or go to play with Garban.”
“…The bear. You play with him?”
“He’s only thirteen, sire.”
“He’s a damn Dire Grizzlybear, Miihey. I’ve wrestled boars, and I wouldn’t do half the things you do with him.”
“Well, he doesn’t spoon with strangers, Your Majesty.”
A bark of a laugh. Nuvityn had to throw his head back and let one out, and in that way, Miihey considered himself a fine advisor. Garban was one of the ten thousand soldiers in service to Erribathe. Not one under Level 30. Fair; Garban had no levels, but he’d beaten three of Forem’s folk over Level 30 who’d wanted to come.
Ten thousand men and women. And a bear. Some might say it was a paltry number to go unescorted. Such people had no notion of what it meant when each one was over Level 30. Garban was a fine bear who could rip a man in plate armor apart like a child picked apart a straw dummy. A thousand Garbans wouldn’t be as fearsome as this army.
…A fact that Medain and the Chandrarians knew. Which was why Erribathe had yet to land. Nuvityn was pacing on deck, getting annoyed.
“I do not care if this King of Medain, High King Perric, has an engagement with Khelt. I might wish to see the paradise myself if it were allowed…though my instincts say it is in dire straits. I see…bright lights assailing a throne of gold. A crumbling crown of bone.”
He passed a hand over his eyes and for a moment appeared grieved, despite it being an undead kingdom. Then Nuvityn turned.
“But my folk are hungry. We require resupply, if nothing else. And if Tserre’s damn quest for Ceria Springwalker brings us here, we might as well see if we can find the girl before a mysterious hurricane blows us back ashore!”
That was the problem, aye. Miihey glanced sidelong at the other advisors, and Voreca grimaced.
“Sire, given her actions—”
“Would you have me put her ashore? She’d go directly to Ceria, and we would lose her and Prildor. I might be persuaded to lose a Level 60+ [Mage]…but not Prildor.”
Nuvityn’s mood was foul despite Miihey’s best jokes. And his temper, regardless of being a good [King] and reasonable in many ways, was not that of infinite patience. Like with Ailendamus…Nuvityn snapped.
“I grow tired of diplomacy. Take us ashore. Not to any capital. We disembark and stretch our legs! Resupply the ships and have them follow us.”
“And if the King of Medain takes it as an act of war, sire?”
“He would be a fool to do that with Khelt, the King of Destruction, and Jecrass at his door.”
Nuvityn barked at Andromeda, Iradoren’s former lover. Miihey listened with one ear, scratching at his bare chest. He had never liked Iradoren; the man hadn’t made Forem his friend. He’d had favorites among the many peoples. Nuvityn had none that he cared to express, even if Forem was clearly one of his. But Iradoren had played favorites.
Different men. Best not to disrespect the dead if you were someone of any culture. As Miihey was not, he thought the [Prince] had been foolish. Not deserving of death, but he’d had no one to put him in a headlock and tell him ‘no’. That was why he’d died.
Voreca was no sycophant of Iradoren’s. She was older, steadier, but she loved Nuvityn with that idealism of a girl raised in his shadow. Not like Miihey, who knew you could punch Nuvityn and he’d swear and bleed. She was quieter.
“If King Perric does object, Your Majesty? Or another kingdom sees it as an act of war? The King of Destruction especially?”
Then the King of Myths was silent a moment, and when he spoke, his eyes glinted, and Miihey’s heart thundered.
“Then let them make it upon us.”
Ah, yes. There was a man in pain searching for someone to hurt. Worse still, a man trying to be good, so looking for a reason. Miihey sharpened his axe. Ten thousand of Erribathe’s children would reap a bloody harvest through any nation they clashed with. Perhaps it would be for the best. He didn’t know. He didn’t count such things in grand politics or diplomacy. When the axes fell, they fell. Best to feel good about it in the moment.
 
——
 
The sand was such an odd feeling. Miihey lay on it as they disembarked, basking in the warmth. Then grew cold as night fell and rose, swearing, to clad himself in his bear furs. He savored this land, so alien to his sensibilities.
He was happy.
Nuvityn—not. The King of Myths had a thousand things to do.
“Supplies. We shall have some regardless where we sail. Prevail upon our [Captains] for what they need, Andromeda. I trust if gold is needed to soothe them, it will be spent wisely. Voreca, I would know if anyone is dogging us. Solkevoi—”
He named a [Mage] among another of Erribathe’s factions, the Tower’s Folk, who lived in a tower and swore themselves to silent study of magic. She bowed her tattooed head, and Miihey eyed her warily as Nuvityn asked her to scry and use her magics to great effect. Then he turned.
“Miihey—”
The half-Elf waited. King Nuvityn stared at him.
“…I’ve heard cacti are edible.”
“Really, Your Majesty? Then I shall inquire.”
Truly, the King of Myths used his subjects well. He sent Miihey on a task well suited to his capabilities. Namely, hacking apart the nearest cactus he found, then pricking his mouth with the damn thorns. Sucking at the juicy innards, grousing at the taste…
It might seem a stupid thing, but by the time Nuvityn found Miihey five hours later, the half-Elf was sitting with some locals who’d come riding to see this strange army. They had already taught him you could burn the thorns off to feed cattle and that the cacti were good sources of water, if not ones to be relied on to feed an army.
“Hoi, Your Majesty. It tastes more of fruit than you’d think. Too tart for I, too much like a bean, but food enough. Have some.”
He hucked a piece at Nuvityn, who ate it without checking for poison, to Andromeda’s horror. She and the other annoying Khendrothians scrambled to test the stuff, but it had been in Miihey’s hands, and Nuvityn visibly calmed.
“Miihey, you are the last thing between me and insanity at this moment. King Perric’s people are like vultures. The man is both arrogant and afraid; I sense him, even if he has ridden upon Khelt. I do not think him a worthy [King].”
He said this in plain view of Medain’s subjects, saw them, and swore. But Miihey just laughed.
“If he is a rancid turd unto a throne, it will not be the first on any continent.”
“…No. It reminds me why I do not attend social gatherings of monarchs in Terandria. My tongue is lax, Miihey, and I am angry.”
“Because we are so far from Izril?”
Nuvityn sat himself down, greeting the terrified folk of Medain with courtesy and less kingliness than they thought. Truly, then, this King of Medain was some ponce if they had no notion a [King] might break bread with them. Nuvityn did it grandly, like some wanderer bringing riches in, sharing his bounty and partaking of theirs with relish.
Was this not kingliness? Or was it only in riches? Miihey shook his head as Nuvityn chewed, sourly, on more cacti on bread.
“This is good. Chandrar…I have not seen it for over sixty years, and we barely visited a few spaces, Eithelenidrel and I. She wanted to see Claiven Earth and other half-Elven spots. Very impressive—but I didn’t get a chance to see the Glass Straits or Chandrar’s other wilder spots.”
“Time to see them then, Your Majesty? Your will is like the wind; blow hard enough and we follow.”
“I cannot fart hard enough to send all the half-Elves in the Claiven Earth to flight, Miihey. And I think they’re made of sturdier stuff than Gaiil-Drome. Already, they ask if I’ll visit. Politics.”
But Nuvityn did ease. And his great discontent waned…until he spoke to Miihey in confidence. Not private, for everyone eavesdropped on a [King], but their words were only directed at each other.
“In truth, Miihey, I am wroth at only two things. One is Tserre. I knew she was about her own ends, but no man enjoys being a pawn. How she attempts to mend bridges…bah. The second is the King of Destruction.”
Miihey’s pointed ears perked up.
“Has he said aught to you?”
“Not yet. And many kingdoms who fascinate me have. But the man did create an age of war. I wonder…if it would serve the world to make war on him. If we killed but one of his Seven, it might curtail his rise. Though it may see you, me, and our army dead. I think of such things. What better use for a fading King of Myths than to halt a dark legend?”
Ah, now here was a man who feared not his end and longed for it. Miihey’s skin prickled, and he put down his cup as everyone fell silent as if a wind had howled through their ordinary lives. For Medain’s folk, it was acceptable. But Khendroth? Andromeda to look shaken? Miihey spat at their feet. How could they advise Nuvityn if they could not talk to him man-to-man?
“I do not know this King of Destruction fully, King of Myths. It sours my blood to die just to end another continent’s legend. If we have good reason, Forem will die raking his face bloody. But do you know him well enough to commit us to the death?”
Nuvityn’s head bowed.
“…No. He was but a boy in my memories, and I thought sometimes he had the right of it. The man? No, I will judge him, Miihey. Your words are wise.”
“Bah, my words are ‘do not toss us aside like flies’, Your Majesty. If they are wise, you are surrounded by idiots.”
Bristling from Andromeda, and she threw herself down to argue. Miihey paid no mind to her. He kept the King of Myths company, but took from this a great discontent he told his friends and allies of. The King of Myths was not pleased. Best to find him a task or mend bridges with Magus Tserre before he did something rash.
The problem was…Magus Tserre was aware of her follies, but resolved her differences in a way Miihey found laughable. Just not funny.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty. Allow me to present your company with a small gift given our sojourn in Chandrar might be…long.”
The next day, Miihey saw Magus Tserre present Nuvityn with a gift. Namely…a kind of fanciful glider. Miihey had hurled himself off the foothills with crude hide kites that let you soar until you crashed, and Miihey had dreamed of asking the Flying Gnoll for a ride on his contraption.
But never had he dreamed of this. Nuvityn eyed the hovering object made of burnished wood and metal that resembled an odd…well, Miihey thought they were wings? But curved downwards, like a strange bird.
“What is this, Magus Tserre?”
“A Sandglider, Your Majesty. It races across the great desert. It would convey any [Scout] or [Ranger] in your army at speeds only matched by a flying carpet.”
An artifact for days of yore. Miihey itched to try it. Nuvityn just folded his arms.
“And you had this in your bag of holding, Magus?”
He was angry at her. But the half-Elf just sat on her walking cottage and blinked as her two chickens pecked around her.
“Oh, no. I created it from memory. I wagered it might fit your fancy? I also have twelve of these.”
She produced twelve jewels as brightly blue as the sea in Miihey’s dreams, not the salty stuff in reality. Nuvityn took them before Andromeda could object.
“And these are…?”
It was Solkevoi who choked and signed her answer. She wrote in the air; her people were sworn to silence.
“Your Majesty, these are Gems of Condensation! They draw water from the air forever; they are a prize to any Chandrarian kingdom!”
Even now, they were forming water in Nuvityn’s hand. He grimaced as he handed them off to Voreca.
“Another creation?”
“If it should prove valuable in any negotiations that would arise, yes, Your Majesty. I do apologize for the inconvenience.”
Tserre’s lined face was smooth and equitable as she spoke. The artifacts she had made were princely gifts, even to a Terandrian Kingdom, if Miihey was a judge. He bet no Archmage of Wistram could be so munificent. The problem was…Nuvityn’s scowl didn’t lessen.
“I take these gifts in the spirit they were delivered, Magus. Thank you. If you will excuse me…I am searching for a route southwards. Jecrass, perhaps, though the damned politics of even meeting the King of Duels are enough for ten men’s headaches.”
He turned brusquely, and Tserre didn’t lose her smile. She floated away as Prildor and her possible-apprentice, Princess Vernoue, hurried after her. No one else liked her enough to stay near, but Miihey lingered. Because one must.
 
——
 
“Tserre, are you mad? Nuvityn’s wroth with you. What are you doing?”
Prildor was the only man who had Tserre’s ear besides the King of Myths himself. No one else qualified. Vernoue tried.
“Archmage Tserre, what—aaaah!”
She was promptly teleported six miles out to sea. There was no pointing finger, no spoken spell. Tserre didn’t even glance at her. That was true magic, and Miihey, conscious that he wanted to live as a man, not a goat, listened from a distance. He admired the Thronebearers, though; they leapt into the water, armor and all.
Miihey hoped the [Princess] was levelling from her trials. But Tserre’s next words revealed she didn’t care for Miihey eavesdropping and her odd way of viewing the world.
“I’m aware Nuvityn’s angry, Prildor. I’ve weathered worse. We’re on the same continent as that girl, and that’s what counts. Hm, neither gift shifted him. So we’re at…negative 20.”
“…Negative what?”
Prildor spluttered, and Tserre shrugged.
“I’d call it -20 favorability. It used to be easier to raise it. A good gift gets you, what, five points? I just need to figure out what he likes.”
“You’re…you’re giving His Majesty a score?”
“Everyone’s personality can be broken down into numerical values, Prildor. It doesn’t always work, but it’s a useful way to expedite things. Let’s see. Maybe if I enchant some armor for him? It always annoys me, enchanting, and getting the metal smithed is a pain…”
She was trying to figure out how to ingratiate herself to Nuvityn in such blatant terms that Miihey was impressed.
Here is a monster so old she’s forgotten her graces too. She favored him with a look.
“Here to scold me about my conduct, [Barbarian]?”
“Mm. Not I, Great Magus. Only to say that I should love to know what a +5 gift to Nuvityn is. The image of his dead son forever preserved in a mirror?”
Her lips quirked as Prildor gave Miihey a gaze of horror.
“Forem. I knew your tribe had a funny sense of humor. Not bad. I’m no fool. I’ve done what I must. It only remains to be seen whether I’m followed by an army or just Prildor when I get Ceria.”
So she was driven. Miihey noted this down. Prildor wailed.
“I cannot leave Nuvityn, Tserre! You’ve put my position and his in jeopardy—”
“Oh shut up, Prildor. You know how fast Gold-rankers die, and Ceria’s in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They eat her kind, and she’s just a teenager at best. You and I will do if we have to. I’ll deal with that circlet, and you can seduce a Djinni.”
“How dare you reduce me down to some—some lecherous half-Elf who sleeps with anyone! I’ll have you know I’ve only had a relationship with two Djinni, and they were astounding, magnificent ladies—”
Miihey would have given all his gold and his enchanted axe to have Prildor tell his tales of love entirely. It surely would have earned him a place in Forem’s small library of tales they deigned to commit to written stone.
But here was the thing, and Tserre seemed to note it.
“…He’s not as easy as other [Kings]. I’ve never served a King of Myths. He doesn’t want artifacts. He has too many. He’s truly angry, isn’t he?”
“He has lost a son, Magus. And you have kept him from vengeance about your own pursuits. If you had begged him, he would have been more gracious. Do you think he is heartless?”
Miihey spoke directly to Tserre, and her cold, sharp eyes found him, then she nodded once. She did not apologize, just turned her head to regard the sea.
“Well, perhaps I did it poorly. I do not…beg, [Barbarian]. How wroth is he?”
“Not enough to expel you, Magus. Not yet. But I think angry enough to go roughshod over other kingdoms.”
“I am in Chandrar. If I must…I will do what I have to, alone. I would prefer not to; I do not know this King of Destruction. Is there a risk of anything worse?”
Miihey met Tserre’s eyes with a smile wide and open.
“Yes, Magus. You may fear that he considers your task unworthy or you untrustworthy. You have met a [King] with principles. Far better had you met a lesser [King].”
She hesitated as a [Princess] in the distance flailed around in an ocean of jellyfish, desperately casting magic to stay unstung and failing. From this, Miihey saw her realize she had erred.
However, it would have also been wrong to say that King Nuvityn was a blind man. Miihey realized it was he who had also misjudged. For Prildor turned from the sight of a flailing [Princess] in the waters to greater things clearly weighing on his mind.
“You never have any tact, Tserre. This is just like the dispute with the garden. You just pick up a house and put it somewhere else, then cast an illusion so everyone can’t tell they’ve moved for thirty years. Miihey is correct; His Majesty isn’t as easy to bully as our neighbors. But while we’re here…”
He leaned on the railing of the ship. Prildor wasn’t armed. He seemed to forget his bow everywhere. He behaved like, well, a civilian a lot of the time. Despite being the [Royal Stockplier] of the entire Kingdom of Myths. But Miihey had noted that despite numerous folk of Erribathe having fallen prey to [Pickpockets] in cities, or scams or pranks, Prildor had yet to even lose money to the [Sailors] in any great amount. And he did gamble.
Now, he was just gazing at the harbor, so far out of sight it strained Miihey’s eyes to make out any details.
“I had wondered if I’d see it, but I suppose the statue’s not in the harbor. Or that’s not the capital. Do you know if it’s a lie?”
Tserre lost her expression of customary irritation as she kept an eye on Vernoue and turned.
“It’s a lie, Prildor. No one bothered casting a spell on the High King while he was performing. But there are no actual accounts of a ceremony, just a few entries any idiot can forge.”
What lie? Miihey took a moment, then remembered. Oh, High King Perric. And the marriage to—
He began to grin, but Prildor wasn’t smiling. He just put one foot on the railings as he leaned forwards.
“Good. But even so, she’s barely…I suppose she’s a bit older, but the Village of the Spring is sure to be in uproar when they hear about it. I wrote them letters explaining.”
“She’s a Gold-rank adventurer. They get entangled. She stole his crown, or the other idiot did. The half-made woman of metal. A real one after all this time. It’s politics, Prildor. I’ll sort it out.”
“I know that. But I did think, when I saw it—well, it would have been hard to catch a Courier’s ship while we were in Izril, but I thought if we were heading from First Landing I could do it. It’d only take half a year, and I could catch His Majesty. Since we’re here—he’s a [King], Tserre.”
“Mm. And?”
“It’s not right. Not to Ceria. She’s just a girl. But he is a [King]. I can’t talk to men like that without borrowing Nuvityn’s name. I feel as though I should disembark. Just in case he were to get ideas.”
“And you’ll do, what, talk to him?”
Prildor gave Tserre an insulted look.
“No. Of course not. I’m not good with words. But if he grabbed Ceria or something—it’d just have to be me. Dead, no doubt.”
Another huge sigh. But then Prildor exhaled, calmly.
“Even so, it would be unacceptable.”
Tserre gave him a second look, and Miihey felt at his arms. It was the youngest half-Elf who spoke up.
“One man dying to no good cause is a fool’s errand, just as I told the King of Myths, Prildor.”
The half-Elf blinked at Miihey as if he’d forgotten he was there and turned away, flushing.
“No, no, you’re right. I’m too old for that kind of thing. Perhaps it’s well His Majesty is here. A steadying influence who can talk to this High King. All I could do is shoot an arrow or two.”
At the High King? Prildor had bigger balls than Miihey thought—until the [Barbarian] considered what an arrow was to Prildor. Then he wondered how Prildor walked around normally. He had heard tale that this Medain had numerous armies of adventurers, fine folk in heavy armor like Voreca’s people.
He imagined a single half-Elf, upset over a [High King] carrying off a young—a child in Prildor’s eyes—[Ice Mage] towards his bedchambers. What might he do?
“Don’t be a fool, Prildor.”
Tserre’s voice was less snappish than usual. She put an arm on his shoulder, and Prildor exhaled.
“Of course I’m not an idiot, Tserre. I’ll just have a word with the High King if we get the chance.”
“Leave it to His Majesty. If he were assaulting Ceria in his palace, things would not be solved by you waving that bow around. She’s up to trouble in a far more complex place than this little kingdom. If it were just her being wed, willingly or not, I could take us off-shore, fire two spells, and be done with it. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has too many damn Djinni. There’s always someone over Level 60 hanging about too.”
Miihey turned from Tserre to Prildor, and the two half-Elves regarded Medain as they spoke carelessly. Medain who was ruled by the mighty High King Perric. A man blessed by luck indeed.
It occurred to Miihey that Nuvityn might be wrathful, but he was loath to lose someone of Tserre’s talents, or Prildor’s, whom he had specifically picked to accompany him. The [Royal Supplier] wore an unhappy expression, and Miihey edged away to tell some of the others that perhaps they should watch him. If only for the sake of High King Perric’s armies.
Forbearance was wisdom to Erribathe’s ruler, clearly. But even so, he had been slighted and his plans thrown into disarray. Nuvityn might make the best of the situation he had. But who could subdue the King of Myths’ wrath?
Not her. Not poor Miihey.
They spent some time thusly as the King of Myths brooded on his actions. He was so wroth he seemed to prefer to build his fury, and no one could alleviate it. Such was the concern of his council that they grew fearful of what might come next.
Until…he appeared.
 
——
 
It wasn’t the first day he’d appeared on the news. Or the first moment of someone paying attention to what was going on.
It was just…
Inconsequential, at first. Because, surely, it wasn’t important.
Of course, his was a famous name that ranked in the Top 1000 keywords for recognizable terms in popular culture. Which was crazy when you thought about it.
And Wistram Academy was all about its popularity algorithms. They were riding a wave with the television and popular media, and they were intending to keep on top of it until they got to the top. Archmage Eldavin and his Terras faction had it all figured out, of course.
“First comes scrying orbs. Advertisements. An ‘orb in every home’; well, we don’t have the industry for that. Yet. But then we’ll invent one of these, uh, music players. First, music, then we turn it into an all-in-one device. Phones. Within ten years, we’ll have Wistram Academy in every person’s hands!”
They were stealing from Earth. If there was a route to enslaving an entire world on mass media, why fix a winning formula? Eldavin had plans. But the key was boosting Wistram News Network to the max, and that meant good ratings were key.
They were inventing everything from how to analyze how many people had watched any given broadcast to how to ‘rate’ likeability. Random surveys, marking each scrying orb by watch time—oh, the [Mages] had lots to do.
But what this meant was the industry of television was growing, and certain players, like Drassi, Sir Relz, and Noass, were at the top. But there were new people trying to rise each day, and the quality of television was becoming a concern.
At the start, you could put a cat on a scrying orb and have it roll around or bat at yarn and your audience loved it. These days? The cat had better be a one-eyed kitten abandoned at birth who was experiencing its first magical ball of yarn—ever—and there had better be some good accompanying music.
Entirely disheartening. Some members of Earth, like Rémi Canada, saw this slide into the madness of his world and were trying to fight it, but this was a natural pattern. All of this meant that the things being shown on the news grew increasingly more…spectacular.
Not always pure action! Wars got coverage because they had to, but sometimes you got a [Nobleman] giving away ten thousand gold pieces of wealth. Or—or a Named-ranker caught fighting a monster of truly awe-inspiring proportions.
Silver-rankers virtually never appeared anymore. Gold-rankers had to be extraordinary to get a spot. The age when Liscor fighting Face-Eater Moths was newsworthy was gone. It wasn’t as spontaneous as before. Not as organic.
At the same time…that meant many broadcasts felt ‘fake’ for lack of a better word. What the curators of media decided was vital, like the crowning of a new [King] of Oztera or a noble’s ball, could fall flat on the many cultures who asked why this mattered.
A disconnect between what people wanted you to believe was important and what you felt. And Wistram at the heart of it. Eldavin was ruthless; if something wasn’t getting genuine traction, he fired the [Mage] responsible for the broadcast and blacklisted the organization.
Soon, people would be able to buy time. Soon, there’d be enough channels to have people able to purchase importance—but right now was a unique moment where things had to be genuinely captivating to get on television. It kept dedicated teams of news-people from Pallass to Wistram to every news-network hunting for good footage to air. And those teams were already being used—how culture shifted so fast.
That was why it wasn’t surprising he hadn’t been featured despite the news coming out. It was, after all…
Just Pisces. More than one person had reviewed the tidbits and seen summaries.
‘Bane of Roshal killing [Slavers]. Possibly him? Numerous caravans destroyed. People attacked on the roads.’
They looked at that briefing, did a bit of research, and concluded maybe this was real. But…so what?
The Horns of Hammerad were good for generating attention. People liked them. The Silver Killer of Chandrar? Amazing broadcast. Bloody, captivating—and she was so weird. You had her father, who was denouncing anything improper, which you could juxtapose with Yvlon Byres tearing through the Coliseum of Monarchs…great stuff.
But Pisces Jealnet? First, he was a [Necromancer]. Second? He was the Bane of Roshal. Or was it Scourge? Already, it was a headache to deal with the dual titles, and he was just killing slavers.
So what? He was sort of doing the thing he was named after. To someone like a [Television Producer], it felt banal. Played out. Why bother showing him when they could show…a new species? Something from the New Lands?
And that was why they were young still. These executives didn’t have an understanding of narratives. You see, people knew Pisces. The Horns weren’t just famous, they were liked. People might want to know what Pisces was doing. Morality?
No one considered the morality. Except a few individuals. Like, again, Rémi Canada, who might not have had access to Wistram News Network, but who had a certain power of his own. He was the first one to insist that it get a broadcast on Nerrhavia’s Wonders, the local broadcast channel.
It might not be Lundas, but Rémi was willing to take the risk and override his editor’s objections that this was in bad taste. He knew…stories.
The other person who had a relationship with Pisces, however fleeting, was in just as prominent a position. Drassi Tewing followed her instincts, and she had Channel 2. She was allowed to take risks, and they generally paid off. Channel 1 with Sir Relz and Noass got to do ‘big news’, but that meant she often found gems they’d overlooked.
Like the recordings. They came, she understood, via recordings of the caravans, who had been monitored. Anti-scrying spells meant you couldn’t tell where Pisces was, but you could get aerial footage of the caravans and see the attacks. A few were from the ground; people with Wistram Scrying Devices that had recording functions.
Drassi thought about it for ten minutes, then took a gamble on the thing that had brought her this far.
“Play it. I don’t care how many disclaimers we have to run. I’ll get on and apologize to our Chandrarian viewers if I have to—play it. Either I’m blind and heartless or you idiots don’t see…”
She leaned over the scrying orb and stared down.
“…I don’t even care if it’s him. That’s the story. Play it, and if I’m wrong, I’ll retire tomorrow. But I’m not wrong.”
She wasn’t so far gone into her class that she didn’t remember what it was like to be a regular Drake. And that young man…Drassi’s eyes stung, and she wished Selys were here to say something to him.
He seemed so alone. She wished she’d asked him. Interviewed him. All she could do was order the recording played.
So that was how it happened. At first, it was just a single broadcast on Channel 6 of Nerrhavia’s Wonders, and Channel 2 aired a single short feature segment on a certain [Necromancer] at 19:30—a late night broadcast that ran twenty minutes.
But they were paying attention to the analytics, you see. When both channels saw a spike in viewer retention, letters to the studio, they did the obvious thing and featured another clip. Then devoted more time to…
Then they dug a bit and realized there was political drama here. The images kept coming in, and they were graphic. Rémi began to run his unaired piece on what had happened to Pisces, and Drassi thought of the adventurer who had come home and the rumors she’d heard and…
Then they felt it. A building momentum. An obsession grabbing the chat rooms, the audience who began tuning in no matter the hour. Demanding explanations. As ever.
As if they should have ever doubted him. So what if he was a [Necromancer]? He was one of the Horns of Hammerad. And this…
This is how it reached the bored, irate King of Myths, who was half-watching a scrying orb as he rode across Medain, pondering his next course of action. Magus Tserre’s eyes as she glanced over and heard a name she’d decided to flag as important.
“—ladies and gentlemen. I think—I think this is a confirmed event happening now. I am Drassi Tewing, and I encourage anyone under the age of, uh, sixteen to look away now! I cannot confirm this is the genuine article, but this is breaking news—a raid on another [Slaver] caravan of Roshal. That’s…Pisces. That’s him. And [Bandits]? Ancestors.”
Nuvityn’s head turned, and he knew that name. A teammate of Ceria Springwalker’s? He was annoyed, then saw it.
A tiny image reflected in a scrying orb as Drassi Tewing commented in a corner. It was an aerial view: a caravan racing across a road, leaving a visible trail of dust. Moving figures coming from the sides and rear.
Classic [Raider] ambush. Nuvityn had known war, and the enfolding attack didn’t surprise him. It was neat, tidy; mounted riders and undead flanking the—
Undead?
Then his eyes focused on the Skeleton Champions riding undead horses. Rampaging towards the wagons, ignoring arrow fire. Screaming [Bandits]. Desperate Stitch-folk faces locked in horror as the scrying spell zoomed in.
But ahead of them all a pair of figures. A young, Human man with a shock of brown hair riding forwards. Firing black bolts of magic from his offhand as he rode with a Stitch-woman whirling her scimitar around.
They came down on the caravan, and Nuvityn saw blood drawn. A beheaded woman—his eyes flashed for a second.
Murder. Then he heard what the Drake was saying. He recognized the sigil painted in red on the side of the wagons.
A band of people being hurried off the wagons. Linked by chains as the undead and [Raiders]…Nuvityn stopped. Then he strode for the scrying orb to see more clearly. And it was so tiny. An open mouth on the [Necromancer]’s face. Undead, the horrific monsters, bounding forward and slaying the living.
But only until you paid attention. Then you saw him. Pisces Jealnet lifting that rapier high. Swinging it at…
“Roshal?”
He continued to cut through them. Scything down [Slavers] like chaff. There was blood and gore, but Nuvityn’s eyes were fixed on that symbol. And he knew it.
“One of Ceria’s teammates. He’s slaughtering the Slavers of Roshal. I never cared for them. But they have a lot of power on Chandrar’s sands.”
Prildor was speaking, glancing around carefully. Nuvityn just murmured.
“They do. He must be mad.”
Roshal was a world power. He allowed none of them in Erribathe, but other kingdoms traded with them despite any influence he could exert. To kill their people in the open—madness. This was a slaughter. Actions befitting a common brigand, not a Gold-rank adventurer. And he was a [Necromancer]. A hated class. Nuvityn remembered when it had been celebrated.
Nuvityn was watching the young man riding into the center of the [Slavers], swinging that sword like a madman. [Slaves] being freed as a [Raider] slashed at their collars and chains.
“Your Majesty. If you wished to ride and—”
He held up a hand, and there was silence. Nuvityn, the irritable King of Myths, just leaned on the horse’s saddle, forgetting his wroth mood. Searching that desperate little figure for a trace of something else. Greed, cowardice, self-servitude. He just saw the [Necromancer] finally break free of the melee, his white robes shedding crimson.
Riding forwards. Chasing the [Slavers] until he turned and saw the collared men and women. Children.
They took children too. The King of Myths saw the [Necromancer] dismount. Fall to one knee; blood was running down his side, and the [Bandit Lady] was striding over to him. But he was reaching out. A key in his shaking hands he’d taken from a dead man.
Nuvityn said nothing at all. He just gazed down, watching, until the scrying orb turned into an ad. Then he turned his head.
“Has this been going on…long? Find me more recordings.”
That was all. He mounted his stallion and kept riding. But a few minutes later, when Voreca rode next to him, presenting a second scrying orb, his head turned. The grieving father, the King of Myths who rode for vengeance and justice…
Watched.
He was not the only one. And there was the blessing for hungry eyes.
If they had not noticed him before…
Pisces Jealnet had not stopped. He had a wealth of content to deliver, really.
 
——
 
Merr was bad for Pisces, he knew. Not because she was a [Bandit Lady] or nefarious, but because she knew him. And she made the impossible—possible.
They rode on the caravans he could never have caught nor found. Like a storm, yes.
They came over the ridgeline, and he ordered the undead forwards. Came down, forgetting everything when he saw that sigil. Just that roaring in his ears. That urgent desire in his chest. Terrible, terrible glory as he swung the rapier up and down.
Monster.
It was so easy. Merr the [Bandit Lady] was better at strategy than Pisces; she used his undead like expendable fodder, sending them in before screening their advance with [Bandits] and Skills. It meant he could just…listen to her instructions and fight.
Easier.
He’d figured it out when they’d been freed, though his ego had taken a second to realize it. Merr was a better leader. Now, Pisces was grateful. He could trust her with figuring out when to escape, who to hit, the plan of attack.
All he had to do was…
 
——
 
“[Deathbolt].”
The [Necromancer] saw the enemy [Slaver] dodge the bolt, but that opening left her on the backstep. Which meant when he lunged—he ran her through the side. It was not a killing blow, for all the blood ran over his hands. He heard a gasp and backstepped out of the return slash. The stumbling [Axewoman] swung furiously to keep him back.
But he was circling on the ground, and she was now bleeding. Advantage: Pisces. The clash of swords rang around him. Screaming. The undead assailing the living.
Pisces and his opponent existed in a bubble of their own. He was not blind to potential ambush or other combatants, but he focused on her. And she was wavering. Favoring her wounded side. Bleeding.
She went for a healing potion, and that was her mistake. He gave her no time to heal.
A slash at her neck which she ducked, potion at her lips as she drank, backpedalling. She was gulping the liquid when she saw his free hand pointing, below his sword.
[Deathbolt].
He fired it twice through her chest, and she fell over. Potion spilling until he grabbed the bottle.
Such were his duels. They were not honorable, not practiced as he’d been taught. But they were no less official for all that. Any hesitation and he was dead. But he punished them.
If you account only for my sword, [Deathbolt] will strike you. If you dodge that, you fall to my sword. Few foes could face both a [Duelist] and a [Necromancer]’s attacks.
But there were some…
 
——
 
“Pisces!”
Merr found him after the third raid. He was sitting on the ground, admiring the blade in his arm.
“The bastard got you—healer!”
She roared, and he murmured.
“He couldn’t get through my Stalker armor. He was going for my armpit. It would have worked—but he overcommitted. Silver-bell.”
The dead man was no [Slaver], at least, not one that wore Roshal’s armor. He looked like a hired [Mercenary]. A [Guard], maybe. He’d been good. They’d traded wounds, but Pisces had drawn the fight to a swifter conclusion than his opponent deserved.
“Stupid—you went for trades? You have the other bugger take it up the ass and never let them get a chance to do you the same way!”
She was scolding him; Pisces grinned weakly. He liked her colorful euphemisms.
“I knew…my armor was better than his. It wasn’t mannerly.”
“Forget mannerly. You’re alive. Hey, healer, I said! Get those [Slaves] moving, and let’s ride! Strip the carts!”
Merr was covered in sweat and grime and blood. She appeared—harried. And why not? They had been fighting all day.
Even for a seasoned group like the Dustbandits, three engagements in a day was insane. But they’d been in range of three caravans with Merr’s movement Skills. Pisces saw Merr extending a hand.
“Pisces, m’boy, you have to get up and—”
He rose to his feet without her hand. She recoiled, and Pisces’ head turned. He drank the rest of the healing potion.
“I know. Enemies?”
He looked around and saw no one.
They were all dead.
 
——
 
Merr the Storm thought about making a crack about Pisces’ bathing habits. They didn’t seem, uh, improved since last she’d known him.
He wasn’t using [Cleanse], and he’d been roughing it in the sand for over a week at least. To be fair, the sand helped a lot. It clung to the dried blood, and he did scrub the worst of the gore off. But he was starting to smell a bit like the corpses he created. In Chandrar, again, they didn’t rot badly. And he had no bathing equipment.
But dead gods. She knew her Dustbandits were giving him the same side-eye she was. He was breathing in and out as he finished a healing potion, rapier stowed at his side, undead rising, and he was controlling them. But like this you could see a man, blinking, a Human with messy hair you could rib.
Not so five minutes ago. Merr leaned over.
“Hey, Chokin’ Casep. You know movement Skills. That [Flash Step] trick…you ever seen a man run down someone on horseback with it?”
The former Trick Rider spat.
“Only th’ once.”
“Ah, right, then it’s normal?”
“Didn’t say that, boss. A Silver-bell [Duelist] did it one time. Tried t’say he’d beat us all in a footrace. Ended up breaking every toe on his right foot fifty yards in.”
“Heh. But he caught you?”
Casep finished looting a corpse. A dead [Slaver] stared up at Merr, face twisted in rage. She spat onto the face.
The dead [Slaver] sat up. Merr shouted, punched the zombie flat, then realized it was Pisces. She swore as everyone laughed. Then ducked her wrath. But Merr’s eyes were on the cut that almost made the zombie headless.
Pisces didn’t have an enchanted sword. His was sharp, but Merr had increased her muscle mass, and she was a [Bandit Lady] with an enchanted scimitar. You had to be mighty pissed to swing that hard with a regular blade. Her eyes stole around, counting.
“…nine…ten…right, how’d you see it then, Casep?”
The [Dustrider] was watching Pisces too. Trying to place the man here who jumped and flushed when Chimes snuck up on him with a laugh to the face of the [Necromancer] riding down on…
“Oh, that. That was His Majesty of Jecrass. He had the same Skill and heard about the [Duelist] cursin’ us out. So he had us race him. Gave us a head start, and when we were laughin’, he caught us. Went back and told the [Duelist] to practice his Skills like the blade. The Trickriders always had an inkling he was more’n he let on. But he said it’s not easy.”
“And that was a Skill, not a spell you’ve got to cast, eh?”
How hard was it to cast, what, a Tier 2 spell fifteen times in quick succession without hitting a rock in a fight? Merr didn’t know. But there was a new wariness to the Dustbandits around Pisces. Now they saw the truth behind the name.
But that wasn’t all he was. If it was, Merr wouldn’t have come out this far. She rose from her haunches and waited. Where…where…?
Ah, there it was again. She saw the [Necromancer] toss the empty vial down, finger-comb sand out of his hair, and then turn. Then he found them.
A group of Dustbandits weren’t doing the fun things like looting the dead or patching wounds. A grumpy band of twenty were talking to over four dozen people being unchained.
[Slaves]. They were standing together with that disbelieving expression of people encountering extreme violence. Civilians. No one over forty here, couple of children—Merr spat at a dead [Slaver] again.
Debtor’s run. This lot scooped up entire households. Roshal loved this trick in kingdoms that didn’t have laws against family being held responsible for debts. Even friends and cosigners on a loan. So many tricks to get you in their grasp…
The [Dustbandit] in charge of this mob was speaking loudly and impatiently. Scarlips was glaring at the sun starting to set in the sky. Three caravans and they were tired, but her work had only begun.
“Right, listen up. You’re all free people now—congratulations. But fair warning, soon as we get clear of here, those chains might go back on.”
The [Slaves] froze, and Scarlips snapped.
“As cover. They won’t be enchanted, but we’ve gotta pretend you lot are [Slaves]. We don’t have enough horses to get mounted. There’s a group of folk who’ll help you find a place to go. Leave the region, find new identities, whatever. But until we get there, we’re avoiding Roshal, and that means what I say goes. Anyone who tries to tattle on us is a traitor, and we shoot them dead. Got it?”
Her social graces were poor, but Scarlips had done this run many a time. It was not a fun task for the Dustbandits. It didn’t pay well, and getting rid of a slow-moving group like this while dodging the law was hard.
Merr would have to sweeten them with something nice afterwards. But, eh, what she was doing sort of worked. Being kind got you tears and arguments. Scarlips had the chastened [Slaves] bowing and nodding to her.
Still, there were tears. Merr turned her head as someone burst into hysterical sobbing. Faint questions—Scarlips snapped back.
“No, you’re not being resold; do you not see—we’re the Dustbandits, we don’t take [Slaves]! You’re free. Go celebrate later, but shut up and get ready to march hard! Damn, we’ve got brats too…”
Some of the kids were crying. That’d be a problem on the road, so Scarlips just shouted for someone to find a Calming Tonic. Chimes tried; the silly rookie began to juggle daggers and nearly speared herself through the hand. Merr snorted. No wonder she’d never made it as a [Performer].
Then Pisces walked into the conversation, and Scarlips fell silent. It was not the first time they’d done this; he’d seen Merr’s methods and told her how he’d just sent off the other [Slaves] with a prayer and naught else. But now…
“I’m sorry, Lady Bandit. I’ll get them silent. Children—children, hush.”
One of the men was trying to shut up a pair of Stitch-children with all the tact of a distant uncle, not actual parenthood. But Pisces just gazed down and held something out.
“Here.”
He offered a Stitch-boy and Stitch-girl a pair of objects. One was a handkerchief, fairly clean, for the tears and snot running down their faces. The other was a keyring taken from one of the dead [Guards]. They looked up at him and flinched.
“The Scourge.”
He paused, hearing the title, but he didn’t recoil or laugh it off as he did with Merr and her [Bandits]. Instead, Pisces knelt like a strange wading bird, white robes puddling around him. The only pristine part of him.
“That’s what they call me. You two are free. You all are. I cannot go with you; I’m sorry. But this woman will take you somewhere safe.”
He nodded at Scarlips, who hesitated and gave everyone an unconvincing smile. Many of the [Slaves] drew back, but the Stitch-boy took the key and turned it over.
“Sometimes they trick us. Giving us keys and seeing if we try to get free. They whipped the last man to death for it.”
His hair was black like charcoal, and he gave Pisces a wary look before his eyes darted to the dead [Slavers]. Pisces sat back on his heels.
“I see. This is no dream. What’s your name, young man?”
“Ultri.”
Pisces nodded. His gaze stole skywards, and Merr knew what he was seeing. Then he turned.
“Is this your sister?”
“Nah. She’s just a friend…our dads knew each other. Stupid idiots went together on a loan.”
The boy would have spat, but then he just turned away. Pisces glanced around.
“Where are…?”
“My dad got sold. Hers tried to escape.”
This was why you never asked questions of [Slaves] until you were good and damn ready for a cry. Merr tilted her head back, closing her eyes. Pisces was new to this. But she still listened. And what the [Necromancer] said was—
“I’m sorry.”
“Could—could you free him, Bane?”
“I don’t think I can. Not if he’s in a city.”
“Aye, well, it’s his own fault, and we’re freed. Nevrece, he’s the Bane. Stop crying. It’s probably not a trick.”
Probably. There was a pause, hiccupping, and Pisces spoke again.
“Scarlips, how are you going to take the [Slaves] to freedom?”
“Eh, well, we’re out of horses this time. Putting them in wagons is probably best. Short of an inspection, no one notices. We’ll have to rip off any tracking spells, but we’re decent at that. And we can spot a checkpoint. If we had more camels—well, we had to shoot them down.”
“Would undead camels work? Zombies would look normal at a distance. These…”
A gasp. Cries, and Merr opened one eye and saw more undead. Truly, necromancy had a tool for every situation and it was always reanimating a body. Scarlips sucked at her teeth.
“That might work. If they don’t go rogue we can run ‘em nonstop, eh?”
“I’ll lose control if they go out of range, but we could escort you? And I’ll bind them so they obey even when I’m away. They’ll lose their speed…”
They were conferring logistics. Merr was going to tell Pisces not to bother; her Skills worked on her Dustbandits in a certain radius. But then Pisces heard a whisper.
“Is it a dream?”
The girl, Nevrece, was gazing at Pisces. She flinched and hid behind her friend, and they both peered at the ground when he and Scarlips turned. But there was that doubt.
The little lad was being tough, Merr knew. Ultri, the other [Slaves] listening, all had seen the fighting. It probably wasn’t a trick.
But you didn’t really believe you were free. You expected the collars to come back, to be punished for defiance. Even wanted it, if they had you long enough. Merr had spoken to enough [Rebels] and freed [Slaves] to get that. And Pisces had to know it.
He sat down this time.
“I wish I could prove it to you. I wish I could promise it’s over and no one will ever come after you again. If there are more pursuers, if Roshal sends anyone on these roads, they won’t make it to you. That I can promise.”
Merr stirred. Madness. A caravan was one thing, and these had been prepared, if outnumbered and outlevelled. A force on the roads?
He’s making promises I don’t think I want to keep. But she said nothing. The [Necromancer] was ruffling his hair again, and Ultri spoke back.
“It’s a good dream, Bane. Even if I wake up tomorrow, it’ll be good enough for a long time. It’s the third time you came for me, y’know. This time feels realest of all.”
Then he smiled, or tried to, but his lips started to tremble. He swiped at his face, even punched his side, but the mask broke a bit; his eyes grew wet and shining, and he began to hiccup. Pisces’ face then wasn’t the silly [Necromancer] or the Bane of Roshal. Just a man in pain.
He looked around, to Merr, who was not going to insert herself into this conversation for a Relic-class item, to the other Dustbandits, who pretended to be busy adjusting boots, buckles—they were women who killed people, not dealt in emotional vulnerability—
And the [Slaves] who stared at him like a dream, painful and uncertain. Then Pisces closed his eyes and seemed to think of something else. He turned, questing around, and peered north. North, past the setting sun, and he smiled.
“Maybe that would do. I have a way to prove it’s not a dream, Ultri. Or as close as I can get.”
Please don’t pinch him. Merr glanced over, and the boy compressed trembling lips. He saw Pisces raise his hand and put forefinger and middle finger together like one of Erin’s silly gestures. He aimed at a forty-five degree angle, skywards. Then Pisces paused and glanced at the children, then at Merr.
She knew what he was going to do a second before he did it. Of course—[Mages] and their damn magic.
She envied that.
Then the Bane of Roshal fired a rainbow from the tip of his finger. A comet that arced up and shot skywards, glowing with all the colors burned into their memories.
It shone over the [Slaves]. Had the Dustbandits’ heads rise as one. Merr saw the falling Djinni in her memories and sighed.
“Great. Now everyone for a dozen miles can see us, Necrolad.”
…But she let him do it. Because that, of so many things, was proof, wasn’t it? The children gazed at the one symbol that Roshal wouldn’t dare copy. Those [Slavers] who avoided even rain showers caught by the sun like it was the world’s deadliest poison.
Pisces sat under it, his white robes changed to prismatic colors. He looked down at Ultri and Nevrece and, wordlessly, the boy handed the key back to Pisces. He bent to unlock their collars.
“Never again.”
That’s when the little lad hugged him. He threw his arms around Pisces and buried his face in the [Necromancer]’s robes, shoulders shaking. Pisces patted him on the back awkwardly, and then the girl grabbed him, and the children and the [Slaves] were clustering around. Thanking him. Gazing up at…
“So that’s the fellow you met, Merr.”
Chokin’ Casep broke Merr out of her trance. She turned and nodded to her Dustbandits. Now they were beginning to get it.
“That’s him. Instincts of a master duelist. Heart like a Sariant Lamb, however they tried to scar it. Nose as weak as a desert bloom.”
Her lips parted in a grin as she pushed herself up to shout at Pisces that he only had a few more minutes of hugs. Despite her weariness, yes.
Yes, that’s what she’d come to see. And what Pisces didn’t know as he picked up the boy and went to find a wagon for them to ride to freedom was…well, that was what mattered more than the violence.
More than the lives he took. This was the moment that captured the eye and any good and reasonable person who could place themselves in the shoes of another. What he didn’t know, of course, was that they were still watching.
Everyone.
 
——
 
That’s why the King of Myths kept watching until he stopped riding, and his army halted behind him. He was a man who had lived for two centuries, and he knew why he approved of the first part.
But the second was a reminder, far fresher than memory. It was not just Nuvityn, King of Erribathe, either.
 
——
 
Gazi of Reim hadn’t blinked for…at least ten minutes. Or moved. She was covered in blood herself, having been fighting along the fortress frontlines with her cracked armor. She had only retreated for a bowl of noodles in the Drathian style.
They were cold, still rolled up around her chopsticks. Trey Atwood, nursing mana burns from his duels with enemy [Mages], was watching her.
Everyone was out of the corner of their eyes. But the member of the King of Destruction’s Seven said nothing.
The same [Necromancer] she had once tried to kidnap, that adventurer who had crossed her path twice…her eye was fixed on him longer than it ever had been before. She gazed at him like she had looked no one else save for the King of Destruction himself.
A [Necromancer] standing under a rainbow.
“Gazi?”
Trey woke her from her trance. When she looked up, wordlessly, she seemed to notice the food in her hands. She put the bowl aside and beckoned him over.
“A foolish action. They will hunt him. No, they are already. He jeopardizes his team’s position in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Even Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s [Queen] must heed Roshal’s influence. He is far less cautious than I thought.”
She said all that, but her main eye kept focusing on the scrying orb. Trey spoke quietly.
“He seems pretty much like the last time we met. First he draws on Flos, then his team flies on a carpet out of Hraace…”
“Roshal is not to be made enemy lightly. He knows this more than anyone. A former [Slave] would.”
She rubbed at the gorget around her neck, and Trey remembered she had once been a [Slave] herself before Flos had bought and freed her. Trey talked a big game, and he believed what he said about slavery.
But Trey Atwood had never felt it. He almost envied Pisces his ability to captivate Gazi’s eyes. Even now, the Gazer was watching the [Necromancer].
“He is a much greater fool than I took him for. Of them all…I thought the [Innkeeper] was a fool to charm His Majesty. I paid no attention to the half-Elf. And he only had a single spell, I thought. My eyes are not perfect.”
Gazi sat there on the little bench, then peered around. A war was occurring behind her.
“Allow me a break. I will return to battle momentarily.”
“Of course, Lady Pathseeker.”
The [Soldiers] rose and bowed. She kept sitting, and her eyes gazed into the scrying orb, tracing the magic that was following Pisces Jealnet.
A scrying spell from Wistram. And perhaps Gazi fancied she could see the spells tracing back to Wistram itself. Flitting across the world…no, that was still far beyond her. But she wondered if she saw this, felt this—
Who else? Then her eyes were roaming to Trey, to a few other [Soldiers] who paused to gaze at Pisces. Searching for the same spark that lit her eyes. She rose suddenly.
“Where is His Majesty? Amerys?”
She wanted to show them. And then Gazi was asking about that silly thing she’d never asked about. The…what were they called? Chatrooms? She who had never cared for the applause or condemnation of nations was just hungry.
Hungry to know she was not alone. Even gleeful, for as she walked towards the King of Destruction…
He could not ignore this.
No one could.
 
——
 
Drassi Tewing just sat there on the scrying orb, letting it play. She had an expression that Gazi would recognize and which baffled some of her audience.
Selys Shivertail had frozen in the Assassin’s Guild. Calidus Reinhart was wiggling like a fish on a hook, having found another funny expression in his best [Guildmistress] to savor.
But what Selys saw on Drassi’s face was rarer than most people expected. And it was just…
Approval.
The former [Gossip] smiled at everyone. She always had a kind word to say, even if she hated your guts, and could fill any awkward moment with a fortress’ worth of verbal masonry. But she was rarely silent.
She just rested her chin on her claws, tapping the scales on the side of her cheek. Not quite smiling. But that approval…
“I’m not sure if we’re friends. We don’t know each other that well. He’s more like the friend of a friend. But I wish I’d gotten to know him better. That’s the Gold-rank adventurer I’m proud to say I’ve met.”
A little banner was moving underneath the image of Pisces as Drassi sat in the corner of the screen, a box in a box. It was a news-ticker running advertisements, clarifications, and a disclaimer.
 
Breaking: Scourge of Roshal attacks [Slavers], live coverage. Viewer discretion is advised. Channel 2 News does not condone the behavior of any individuals or sanction breaking the rule of law or murder…
 
Drassi paused, then leaned forwards and stared at the little banner. As if she had suddenly leaned through the television frame and—
[Television: Fourth Wall Awareness]. She scared half her viewers to death as she eyed the ticker tape and then sat back, sighing.
“Oh, yes, he’s breaking the rules and all that. Sorry, folks. Level 40+ famous journalist. Comes with being on the news every day. He’s going against Nerrhavia Fallen’s sovereign laws and Roshal’s…and in the spirit of journalism, I would like to point out that he was made a [Slave] for a technicality. I have never received a proper explanation as to why he was made a [Slave].”
Her eyes glinted.
“Believe me, I have asked. So yes, he’s murdering people. Freeing children. Highly illegal. This may be my Izrilian cultural bias. I’m sure I’ll get letters from our audience. But while we’re here, on my channel…”
She sat back. Went back to watching him.
“…I’m so proud of him.”
 
——
 
Five words triggered a panic in Lailight Scintillation. Where, yes, thousands of [Slave Masters] rushed to send in angry letters to Channel 2 news the moment they heard that.
It reached even the Slave Lords of Roshal, and all five of them paid attention to the broadcast, albeit to different levels.
Shaullile sighed like a woman overworked and made a few notes.
Emir Yazdil had been watching for days, coiled up with his favorite [Slaves], his eyes both amorous and frustrated. A serpent waiting to strike.
Andra grimaced as she felt the gears she endeavored to oil snagging on a grain of sand. Twitched as her half-dead body tried to correct her beloved machine of a nation, oiling it with blood and gold.
Thatalocian turned away, counting the numbers and smiling as they led him back to that number again. Erin Solstice. He had warned them all.
And Pazeral? The laziest of the [Slave Lords] focused on Pisces’ face, and he arose from his bed and indulgences in wrath and fury. Magic tore the air as he focused on the [Necromancer]. Not that he recalled Pisces personally. But he saw the same enemy he always had. Just wearing a different face. He raged as he gave orders.
 
——
 
—And the broadcast was spreading. Pisces didn’t know that. He was glancing skywards, knowing there were [Scrying] spells, but urgently talking to Merr.
“Merr, we still have plenty of daylight. If there are reprisal forces from Roshal on the roads—”
“Pisces, we’ve taken out three caravans. We’re not Golems! We’ve bled for this. Let it lie!”
She was tired. He was reminded she’d ridden nonstop to get here, and this pace…the Dustbandits were seasoned veterans, but three running battles? Even a [Soldier] of Reim would have looked askance at more.
Probably. Yet he was arguing.
“This is our window, Merr. If you’d just—”
She hissed at him as they argued in front of the Dustbandits.
“Listen to me, Pisces. You don’t know the business of raiding or how much attention we’re drawing. The moment I lead us into a bad engagement, my girls die, and that’s on me.”
She jabbed a thumb at her chest, and the Dustbandits nodded; they were very worried about just that. Pisces glanced around and sensed the mood was against him.
I could go on alone. But…he stopped, and his mind seemed to unfocus from its target for a second. He studied Merr, thoughts racing, then stepped back. Nodded.
“You’re right. I do trust you, Merr. This has been your war—I left Chandrar, and I don’t know how this works. Not only did you come all this way out here, but I’m putting you in danger.”
She fixed him with one grumpy eye.
“I can hear the ‘but’ louder than a horsefly crawling into my ear to lay eggs in my brain. I’ve said my piece. I ain’t changing it, Necrosniffer. I’m tired. You might be full of righteous anger, but it wears off. I ain’t keeping up. And if I’m not keeping up, none of my girls are.”
“I can do it, boss! I’m good for—ow!”
Chimes raised one hand, and the others threw rocks and dirt at her. Laughter, and Pisces smiled along. He hesitated, then slapped Merr on the back. She almost threw an elbow at him.
“Sorry. But that is funny, Merr. You crossed into Nerrhavia’s Fallen and how far to get to me?”
She wasn’t falling for it.
“I’m not falling for that trick. I’m a [Bandit], not some Gold-ranker who rode across Izril in that Crossroads of Izril. You’re used to a team of Level 40s. Drop it.”
He frowned, and Pisces went pacing away from Merr. The Dustbandits were mounted in a rough circle, eying him. A few jeered or shrugged, but he glanced at them, then went striding back to her.
“It’s true, Merr. We crossed from the Great Plains to the western shore in mere days. We went across the entire New Lands faster than anyone but a Courier. That was a function of the Crossroads, though.”
He did that? Dead gods. The Dustbandits shifted. If it was bragging—well, damnit, it was hard to argue about that. But Pisces wasn’t done. There was a twinkle in his eyes, a faint mischief there.
“That was because we had to get to Erin. It was the second-hardest journey in my entire life. But when we crossed the Glass Straits, fleeing Emir Yazdil? Fighting our way through every [Slaver] caravan we came across? Raiding the Glass Bazaar without weapons or more than a handful of [Bandits] and the [Slaves]? You were there, Merr. That was worse, wasn’t it?”
She wanted to glare. But her heart did leap, and Merr kicked the ground.
“Right, I suppose it was. No fancy magic, just those damn monsters shooting eye-lasers and, what, one Skeleton Lord with a rock? Damned hellish. I don’t want to do it again. So—”
Pisces was nodding, and he cut her off with a smile.
“So that’s why I take your point, Merr. You’re tired. But I also know that Merr the Storm takes it easy. She’s a [Bandit], after all. Merr don’t work hard. Merr don’t wipe before she shits. Er, something like that?”
He vaguely recalled her Merr-isms. Several Dustbandits began choking on their masks, and Merr herself started laughing, then took a swipe at him.
“You idiot, that’s not what I—well, exactly. I take it easy.”
“We’d have reached Izril’s coast in half the time if we were with you.”
“Yeah, well—I have movement Skills. Reckon I’d like to see this Crossroads, anyways.”
“I’m sure you’d thrive. If you wanted to, you could do another hundred—no, two hundred miles in a day. If you had to. I am aware we’re tired. But what makes for a better story, Merr? The woman who took down three caravans in a day? Or four? Five? How much is a level worth, do you think?”
She was staring at him. Grinding her teeth, trying not to appear happy. The Dustbandits were glancing at their fearless leader being talked up by the Scourge of Roshal. Merr rolled her eyes. Feinted a kick at Pisces. Mouthed ‘I know what you’re doing’—stared at the sky.
Then at his earnest grey-green eyes. He was smiling. Merr ground her teeth together more, then snapped.
“Argh. We could at least scout around for—girls, get ready to ride!”
She swung herself into her saddle, rolling her eyes ostentatiously. She jerked a thumb at Pisces.
“The new girl’s having her first rampage. You know how it is. Casep, get me a [Scouting Report] on anything around us! Holta, query Savere for intelligence on what the Guild is doing—”
The Dustbandits were eying Pisces. He just got back into a saddle, happy. They knew what he was doing. He knew what he was doing. But, well, it worked.
Like a certain [Innkeeper] complimenting you to your face. Same with a pot of curry to the eyes. Just because you saw it coming didn’t mean it wasn’t effective.
And it was in the blood, now. This madness, this crazy—how far could they go? [Bandits] were adrenaline-junkies, just like adventurers. They lived for the feeling of riding past any limits.
“He’s gonna get us all killed.”
Casep grumbled, and Merr heard her. The [Bandit Lord] rode past her.
“Not on my watch. But you wanna talk him down? Go ahead, Casep.”
The [Dustbandit] glanced over her shoulder, then spurred her mount forwards.
“Hey, no one wants to live forever, boss. Uglier faces than that have gotten me killed. Like yours.”
Then they were riding forwards. A shouting storm—
They weren’t stopping.
 
——
 
It was a long day. Merr fought hard on multiple fronts. Fighting, well, that was tricky enough. Roshal knew she was coming, but there was only so much prep they could do against her Dustbandits and Pisces’ undead.
Even so, calculating who to hit, and how, was the easy part. The harder, harder part was breaking Pisces out of the shell he was encased in.
He had been half-dead, a man staring down his end, when she’d found him. Glorious enough, but even after rest, his eyes would be focused on the horizon or locked on his next quarry. She’d seen that expression on plenty of faces, both [Bandit] and [Rebels].
Who’d argue it wasn’t deserved? Not her. But she still set to the task of unearthing the man instead of just riding with the Scourge.
“Pisces m’boy. Have a bite of this wrap. The girls all take turns making food, and some of them ain’t shit. Good?”
She tossed a delicacy of the Dustbandits at Pisces and nearly beaned him off his undead horse. He fumbled the burrito and inspected it. It was a simple recipe with infinite variations: a bit of hot meat, sauce, and your filling of choice.
In bad times, it was Yellat with salt. But Merr didn’t allow that kind of thing; empty stomachs lowered [Bandit] morale like nothing else. She’d broken out the good vittles and had the [Bandits] who were best at cooking put on lunch duty.
Purple, sticky rice with little bright green herbs chopped into the mix, along with some rich Izrilian beef, drizzled with a honey sauce, and all stuffed together with peppers in a custom Ashwheat wrap that had bits of cheese baked into it.
“…Who made this?”
Scarlips rubbed her nose self-importantly.
“My own tortillas. Not bad, ain’t it? We looted the rice from a caravan carrying Drathian goods a while back, and the beef’s straight from your continent. Th’ good stuff. All you gotta do is keep ‘em toasting next to a heat source and it’s fresh, even when riding.”
They watched as Pisces took one bite of Scarlips’ Custom Wrap, and his face lit up slightly. He took another bite; he seemed famished. Merr watched him chew, then snagged it back.
“Hey!”
She took a huge bite herself.
“Gulping down a good wrap’s a crime, Pisces. Good, though?”
“I could use one myself.”
She beamed at him.
“Excellent! Then you’re up.”
“I’m what?”
 
——
 
They stopped for a moment between the raids, even setting up a little work station. And gave Pisces one of those silly cook hats so his hair wouldn’t get in the food. Very important. Then the Dustbandits sat back and watched him argue with Merr.
“Merr, we have to keep moving—”
“Dustbandits don’t ride on empty stomachs, Pisces. Plus, we need to vanish at least a second or they know where we’re going. And we’re out of wraps. You used to say you could cook. Well, c’mon. If we don’t like it, we’ll throw it back at you.”
He turned and saw dozens of hungry [Bandits] waiting for him to impress them. Pisces eyed the tortilla wraps, some of which were exclusive to one [Bandit] or another. He peered at the food, then did a slow circuit.
“This is a lot of food…!”
Merr had [Perfect Preservation: Loot]. Another reason she was so highly sought-after among gang leaders. It meant she could steal some prime ribs six months ago and have some for a food of choice now. Several of the [Bandits] sauntered forwards, ready to save the food if Pisces mucked it up, but after a moment, he looked around.
“There was that heating stone. Do you have pans?”
She had an entire field kitchen. Soon, Pisces began dicing up some fish. He wasn’t…bad with a knife, actually.
He managed to debone two fish with very careful movements until one of the [Bandits] with dagger Skills came over to help. Pisces had her cube the fish and marinate them in a bowl—he’d taken an unpopular sauce from a jar, sniffed it, and his eyes had lit up.
“Ugh, this might be shit after all.”
Someone kicked Casep as she complained. The [Necromancer] had stopped staring like one of his undead. In fact, one of his Skeleton Champions ended up meekly stirring a pot of rice grains. With the hat.
“I was thinkin’ a wrap, Pisces. Fish don’t do…eh, I’ll bite. You ever take cooking classes?”
Merr herself wasn’t a bad [Cook], and she talked with Pisces as he concentrated.
“I’ve observed a lot. And there was a [Chef], Imani, who taught some classes. Especially to Erin. Lasica too. Erin used to have me debone fish sometimes. She had trauma from cutting her palm open.”
“Hah! What’s with the sauce, though? It’s damned sour.”
“It’s a fish paste. I think it’s from Liscor? Gnolls make it all over.”
Pisces’ concept was simple, but he thought it’d work. Instead of trying to beat the Dustbandits at their own game, and they were masters of this, he was making something Imani had once served in Erin’s inn.
Namely, a burrito with a thin wrap of crisped lettuce and batter that crunched pleasantly, filled with rice, fish, vegetables, and topped off with a sauce of choice.
“It’s like a damned sushi, but big enough to eat!”
Merr grunted as he offered the first one to her. She dipped it judiciously in the sauce, took a bite, then slapped him on the back.
“Hey, it’s not shit!”
“I thought it was well done, actually, given you gave me no prep—”
“It’s average. You think you’re hot shit because you have a new idea? Hey, Casep, get down here and start using Skills like you run your mouth!”
Chokin’ Casep sauntered down and quickly identified two parts where she could use the two cooking Skills she had: [Splendid Marinade] and [Makin’ It Almost as Good as the Rest].
The Dustbandits quickly came up with an assembly line for Pisces’ sushi-burrito and handed him one that tasted noticeably better than what he’d made. He would have sulked, but they were complimenting the food, even agreeing to add it to their rotations.
He won some points as well when it came to cleaning up; they didn’t have many dishes, but there were still cutting boards and the like. He just cast [Cleanse] and whereupon set off an argument.
“See, boss? See? It’s so handy. If you’d just buy us one of them familiars or somethin’ to clean with—”
“Shut it! I’m not paying for a damn cleaning spell! It takes five seconds with soap and water! Someone break out a mat. I’m full!”
There were limits to Merr the Storm’s generosity. She didn’t like arcane familiars, which were fragile, expensive, and probably spied on you. Pisces was about to ask if they had wasted enough time here when he saw a Dustbandit pull a long mat out, toss it on the sand, and…
 
——
 
Sixty-plus [Bandits] lay on mats in the sand under a little cloth canopy that cut the sunlight from burning them. The desert’s heat was intense around midday, and they were full. But the mats were enchanted with cooling spells. Not all; Merr had the nicest one, so the Dustbandits crowded around her. They…
Siestaed. They just flopped down, closed their eyes, and napped off their meal and tiredness. Curled up, lay on top of each other—like dozens of cats.
Pisces Jealnet lay, arms crossed, in the center of the horde as Merr rested a leg on top of Scarlips’ stomach. She was snoring softly. He stared skywards.
After an indeterminable amount of time, someone poked him. He shifted—but it wasn’t time to get up. Instead, it was Scarlips. She was silently ruffling a deck of used cards. His head rose as she pointed to him, then two other [Bandits] who’d rolled over. Chimes, Scarlips, Pisces, and another [Bandit] took a hand of cards. Played silently. The heat from above was warm, but the cool air blowing from the mats cut the hot sands. Pisces did feel himself getting drowsy after two hands.
He was nodding off when Merr shouted.
“Okay, back to work!”
He almost complained until he remembered that was the point—Pisces staggered up as the mats vanished, and the Dustbandits rode.
 
——
 
Another group—[Traders] carrying [Slaves]. They might not have been Roshal this time, but Pisces didn’t care. However, he took more note of the looting.
Merr was a [Bandit], in the end, and he had promised her a reward for helping him. Not just her; her Dustbandits were stuffing coin and valuables into their pockets as they broke open crates, hauling everything away from the wagon.
They’d been very sparing of the valuables in the fighting. Nor did they fight; they just grabbed and ran.
Only afterwards did they pause to divide up what they’d gotten. There was a complex share-system where younger [Bandits] got less loot, but everyone got a fair portion. No hiding the best away. A lot went to the Loot Box for the Siren of Savere, anyways.
Merr grabbed a bracelet she fancied from one of the chests and grunted.
“You want anything, Pisces?”
“No, I’m fine, Merr.”
Pisces wasn’t sure if the looting troubled him. He’d hung out with people who broke the law many a time before coming to The Wandering Inn, but he’d been a relatively upstanding adventurer after that. This would have made him a pariah of the Merchant’s Guild. But it was Merr.
She jerked a thumb at the road, still in chaos from their attack.
“If it wasn’t [Slavers], we’d run off the idiots instead of killing them. [Merchants] are like golden geese. Don’t kill ‘em, just steal their eggs. Okay, this haul’s done. Reckon we can hit a few more caravans on the road. Just [Slavers], mind. See if any have [Slaves], girls!”
The Dustbandits whooped and set to with more alacrity. Also, it wasn’t very hard to find more [Merchants] with [Slaves]; they were rich enough to have them, and they didn’t have to pay a [Slave].
 
——
 
Between three caravans and the other targets they passed on the road, there quickly came a point where the Dustbandits were so saturated with loot they’d have to hide it, teleport it to Savere, or just stop raiding. Pisces was worried, but Merr simply threw up a hand.
“Looks like we’re full up. What we need now is…a nice, honest [Merchant] or [Trader]. Pisces, y’mind finding one for us?”
She glanced skyward, and one of the birds that Pisces had animated from days prior was circling overhead. He was still using his undead, albeit more experimentally than before.
Because of how fast Merr’s Dustbandits moved, even Ghouls had trouble keeping up. Pisces still animated the zombies and had them run, but they became a slower, secondary group that Merr used to distract from where they were, or linked up with to hit a target.
His real undead fighting force was now the thirteen Skeleton Champions, each of whom was mounted on a zombified horse. Added to that were two Bone Horrors, both of whom were customized for speed. The Ghouls were supplemental, but the real experimentation was in the undead animals.
The horses had custom bone-plating that Pisces had added, even protrusions of bone like lances. The Skeleton Champions would charge them into the fighting before leaping off. The zombie horses feared nothing, so they acted as weird [Lancers]; they’d slam into an enemy, impale them with bones, then back off, circle around, and do it again.
Same for the sky. The zombies had rapidly deteriorated with wear and tear, and some were closer to bone, now. Pisces had tried to animate one of the bird’s skeletons and give it six wings, thinking it’d help it catch more air.
The flapping, six-winged skeleton bird actually flew. He had to make a kind of invisible ‘mesh’ of death mana that replaced the feathers it had lost. But it flew like a drunken [Storm Sailor]. Merr had laughed for ten minutes seeing it try to flap around.
It glided nonstop, though. Merr shaded her eyes.
“What’s Silly Sixwings got for old Merr, eh?”
“Please stop naming them.”
However, Pisces sighed and cast around. Merr wanted a [Trader] or [Merchant]? One not carrying [Slaves]…
Most had either heard or sensed the raids happening down the road and so were pulling off the roads or moving away at speed. Pisces spotted several larger ones, and Merr took her Dustbandits towards them. But he noticed one trio and blinked.
“Wait, I know this group…”
Merr cocked her head with interest.
“If it’s a [Trader], any’ll do. Bigger’s not always best. Take us in. Girls? No eyes. Go deal with the big [Merchant] Pisces saw that way.”
The Dustbandits streamed rightwards. That left Pisces and Merr, who vanished as they activated [Invisibility] spells to dodge whatever scrying spells were searching for them. And he rode and quickly saw a familiar trio, swearing and trying to push their wagon out of the pothole in the ground…
 
——
 
“Hurry! Hurry, you idiots!”
Trader Hexata was exhorting her two older brothers who labored with their family’s pack mule to free their wagon. She’d heard there were [Bandits] on the road, and they’d gone off it to hide. They just had to go on a day-trip to make some coin. They’d done the right thing, or so they’d thought. But now they were sitting in the open!
They were almost free of the divot in the sand when someone coughed behind Hexata, and her stomach dropped.
“This lot? They’d be dead if a Level 6 [Raider] with a broken dagger jumped ‘em.”
“They helped me. Trader Hexata—”
She screamed, whirled, and Pisces lifted his hands. The Scourge! And—she went white as Merr the Storm, one of the [Bandit Lords] of Savere, appeared behind her.
“I—I—I swear we haven’t anything of value! Just curios, oh great and munificent [Bandits]! Spare us!”
She dropped to her knees as her brothers froze. One thought about going for his shortsword; Merr half-turned her head, and they threw up their hands. But the [Bandit Lady] was amused and chuckled.
“I don’t knock down [Traders]. Not worth my time. Today’s your lucky day, Trader Hexata. My lad Pisces here and I are looking to make a deal.”
Ah, one that involved me giving you everything I have? Hexata’s face turned waxy. She told herself the story of meeting Pisces the Scourge was worth this…bad turn, so long as they were allowed to keep their wagon. They had money in the Merchant’s Guild and she had a few other bets—Pisces looked worried.
“Merr, what do you mean…?”
The [Bandit Lady] strode forwards, then slapped something down as she pulled an entire crate out of her bag of holding. Then another. Then—she felt at her back.
“Argh, this shit is heavy! Pisces, help me!”
Six crates that Trader Hexata recognized as belonging to the Merchant’s Guild of Chandrar, with their seals still intact no less, sat in front of Hexata. One had bolts of silk that made her eyes bug out. Another? Gemstones from Salazsar…
The richest loot that Merr had found. The [Bandit Lady] rubbed her hands as the three [Traders] stared at more wealth than they’d ever made in their life.
“I’ve just acquired some goods to sell. As a businesswoman myself, I’d love to offer them to you at splendid rates.”
“I—I am honored, Merr the Storm. But I can’t, um, afford this?”
Hexata squeaked. She didn’t have enough gold to cover this, even with all her merchandise! Worse—her brothers paled as they realized what Merr wanted.
If they ended up with a bunch of stolen loot from the Merchant’s Guild, they wouldn’t just be expelled from the Guild, they’d be flayed alive and—Pisces was whispering to Merr, having the same thought. But Merr was beaming.
“Nonsense! Normally, I’d give this lot something cheaper, but any friend of yours is a friend of mine, Necrolad. Here. For you and you and you…damn, I need more cards.”
She handed three black cards out, and Hexata blinked as little words appeared on them. It said…
 
City of Cheklam — Andos, Weaverstreet.
City of Halqued — Labroi, The Cutting Edge.
Town of Jivs…
 
It was a list of local cities and towns. The clearly magical card—Hexata had seen [Merchants] with the same. But this?
“What is this, Lady Merr?”
“Just a card that lets you talk to someone who’ll offload the goods. Can’t have you doin’ it through open markets. And just in case you were wonderin’ how, you obviously don’t bring this into the city. Sometimes you can get it past the [Guards], but that’s a fool’s game. Leave your wagon outside, nip on in, and have a word. They take it, they slide you your cut, and that’s that.”
Smugglers. Pisces’ mouth was open, and he closed it along with Hexata and her siblings.
“You, uh, do this often, Merr?”
She sighed at him.
“Pisces, Pisces. Loot is heavy. Plus, the Merchant’s Guild isn’t dumb. The bigger [Merchants]? They just turn the crates back over to the Guild in exchange for a fee. The one my girls are talking to will get us a cut. Less than we like, sometimes—so we go back and raid ‘em or just don’t work with them again. But Trader Hexata can get better rates if she sells this on the market. Heck, if I like her, I’ll sell her more goods myself!”
She winked and turned.
“It don’t hurt a [Trader] to get in with the black markets, either.”
Wait, this card would let her talk to underworld dealers? Hexata’s eyes went round as she realized this might be a list of…
This was huge. Hugely dangerous if she gave away the card and they realized she’d put the market in danger; they had to have plenty of precautions. Probably a network devoted to monitoring local law enforcement and switching up who was listed on the card. Merr chuckled as she re-mounted her horse.
“Izril’s probably just as good at this. Maybe not as direct, but d’you think we’re all idiots? Say something reassuring to the nice [Trader], Pisces. I’m gonna check on my girls. Ten minutes! I’m feeling generous with all these profits.”
She rode off, laughing to herself, and Pisces offered Hexata a weak smile. She stared down at the fortune in front of her. One of her brothers fainted into the other’s arms.
Even if they only got 5% of what this was worth in exchange for smuggling it…Pisces half-turned to Merr, and his eyes lit up as they hadn’t in all the times Hexata had spoken to him before.
“I’m sorry about this, Hexata. Merr may have put you to some risky business, but I hope it is to everyone’s profit. She is good about that.”
“Not at all, Scourge. You look happier.”
That was all she managed. His head turned back to her, and he pointed at himself, confused. Happier? They spoke for a moment, and she still saw his eyes roaming the distance. Still saw the Scourge as he mounted his horse when Merr the Storm rode back to him. But when he nodded to her and they rode…
“Are they lovers, d’you think?”
Her eldest brother whispered as the Dustbandits rode after them, whooping and cheering. Hexata stomped on his foot, and he swore, hopping up and down, but then she sighed.
“I hope so. He looks better.”
This was not on the scrying orb she went back to watching when they’d passed. Watching and seeing his exploits. But to Hexata, that moment mattered most of all.
 
——
 
Many people saw Pisces Jealnet’s ride as more channels picked up the broadcast, and the popularity didn’t end. Accordingly, Wistram’s algorithm told them to make the broadcast a priority, and other news stations copied them. That might be one explanation for why Pisces’ face re-appeared on television hour after hour.
Or as Mrsha the Watcher could have told you, or Lord Molen…some things were just important and should be watched.
Many notable people watched the broadcast. From Fraerlings to the King of Bows to…
 
——
 
Ailendamus’ Court of Masks was in an uproar over the latest developments with the [Necromancer]. Full arguments that spilled out of the actual masked section into open conversation.
Because Ailendamus’ nobility were split.
“Look at him now! Fencer Padurn is lamentably correct for once. This proves why refusing to embrace him was such a correct decision.”
One of the [Ministers] of Ailendamus was shaking his head over the wanton slaughter. His opponent was someone who didn’t normally participate in the policymaking of Ailendamus.
Crown Princess Ozena Zessoprical did not enjoy the politics of court life, having grown up around it. She was a favorite at the magical academies, where she studied magic—and swordplay—and she was not allowed to become an adventurer like Princess Telleis or Duchess Greina.
But this was clearly interesting to her. So she was having a heated conversation.
“It may be unlawful, but it’s slavery, Goldcat! Ailendamus does not hold with slavery, does it?”
“Er, Your Highness, we’re out of the Court of Masks—”
She tore off her mask, embarrassed.
“Ahem. What I meant was that he was freeing children!”
“Yes…and I would be remiss not to point out that I favor the freedom of any child from—from—but it is the law, Your Highness. He is riding with common [Bandits]! That is the crux of the matter. Baron Regalius, your thoughts?”
Regalius was conflicted himself, but he was highly invigorated by all this conversation. It wasn’t all nuance, of course. Some younger people just loved adventurers, and Pisces Jealnet riding across Chandrar hacking down enemies appealed to a certain youthful rebellion. He was, after all, all scandal.
And Regalius had heard from a little bird that a certain [Princess] had gotten in trouble just the other day for trying to teach a class on basic necromancy…rebellion was a terrible thing in the young. Any time they did something their parents and elders didn’t expect or like, rebellion.
Regalius’ perspective, well, was that he’d been young once, and he’d rather like to not be set in stone when the young took power. But his personal views on this divide?
He played politics for once, deferring the question with a [Smooth Sidestep]. A combat Skill that you could parlay into social circumstances if you were quite good.
“I’m troubled by the legality question myself, Minister Freshaud. Obviously, one cannot deny the optics are good. Freeing children?”
“Embracing the Death of Chains? Madness! Baron, have you lost your mind?”
A noblewoman exploded at that. Regalius waved a finger at her.
“Extenuating circumstances, Lady Hiterto. We must remember he was unjustly made a [Slave]—”
“So the Drake alleges—”
“—A complex situation. But I think you will find Minister Sophridel has collected data showing Ailendamus’ populace has definitively positive feelings, even now. I bow to his data. Yet I hold the legal entanglements up as a greatly valid concern, especially for Ailendamus to embrace. Who better to address this than our guests from House Shoel?”
He pivoted and threw the conversation towards another group. The people around him turned and moved as Baron Regalius smiled at the grateful [Battle Princess], who went striding over to a unique set of guests.
The judges of House Shoel were common enough, even if they didn’t care for prolonged conversation. There were a few of the younger members as well as older members like Lady Shierxun, still wearing white bands of mourning for the…events at sea. They’d been absent for not wanting to answer questions about that.
But today seemed to be an exception in many ways. For here was none other than Lord Uziel, Lady Maxtria, and Lord Galletil.
Three of the fairer members of House Shoel? Regalius hoped they were on the mend; they were certainly spritely enough even in their wheelchairs. One was actually standing and eating with good humor as a young man with darker, greyer skin supported him and tried to get him to rest.
“Judges, lords and ladies of House Shoel—have you kept up with the news at all?”
Minister Freshaud introduced the conversation, and it appeared it had already been a topic of debate. Because one of the Lucifen, Oelvix, twisted his lips. He was very young, twenty-two, but he spoke with great poise.
“A debate we ourselves have engaged in to great amusement, Minister. My fair cousins see it one way, though the eloquence of their arguments leave something to be desired. Nevertheless, I support their position.”
He nodded at Lord Uziel, whose eyes were sharp.
“Some things are simple, young Oelvix. I see a crying child, I object.”
Regalius smiled. People often forgot how sharp and canny the brighter half of House Shoel could be. They might be direct, cheerful folk, but when they wanted to be, they were as dangerous with words as the blades they could use.
“Yes, Lord Uziel, one cannot help but feel that element, but is it making us lose sight of the forest for the trees?”
“…In that we should not care about the safety or wellbeing of children for grander things, Minister? Do tell.”
That was Lady Maxtria. The Minister cast around for help and got it from Lady Hiterto, who turned to the judges.
“Legally, this adventurer has broken the law by slaying [Slavers]. If we are a nation of laws, should this not be clear-cut?”
Her attempt to end the discussion on stable ground resulted in a split. Lady Shierxun frowned.
“You have my broad support, Lady Hiterto. I fear the young disagree—”
She broke off as Oelvix spoke up, sharply and with a frown.
“You mischaracterize this as an argument split along age, Lady Shierxun. A lamentable predisposition I trust does not carry into your adjudication of law.”
Her brows twitched together.
“My position is that this young man is knowingly breaking the law. Prima facia, that is undeniable. Your rebuttal in front of the royal court, I trust, will be satisfactory and not based on emotion, Oelvix?”
He brushed back his hair, haughty as could be.
“Not at all. I argue three points. Firstly, our independent investigation of Pisces Jealnet’s imprisonment by Roshal suggests they took him captive as a trespasser when he landed after the Scroll of [Greater Teleport]. A ludicrous claim given he apparently landed outside of a city’s property. The allegation was made that it belonged to a local landowner—never listed—providing the pretext. I believe this is a baldfaced lie to obscure the truth, that he was a known Gold-rank adventurer and the [Slavers] took his unconsciousness to imprison him for their own gain. He would have faced a light fine, at best, in any other circumstance.”
Oh, he had done his research. Even Shierxun nodded at this.
“This action does account for his bias and previous pattern of behavior. It is not an excuse for current events.”
Another nod from the young man.
“This is merely relevant background, Aunt. To your actual claim, I would argue it thusly in court: there is precedent. I cite the Rights of Citizenry, Article 8, Subparagraph 5. Also, the Knightly Provisions with our three Knight-Orders, the Conduct of Law and Justice. In brief, we acknowledge that there are circumstances in which citizens—or [Knights], as a fine example—may take actions that are unlawful, but necessary as a course of action because to follow the law would create a greater injustice.”
“Those codes are usually applied for wartime insubordination, Judge Oelvix.”
Regalius barely remembered the sections, but he’d pulled out a book of law he had in his bag of holding and rifled through it. The Lucifen appeared mildly startled, and all turned to Regalius with faint approval.
“It may be a technicality with very little legal precedent, Lord Regalius, but I would argue it is not unsupported. This may be a less-recorded example, but there is a strong precedent for [Knights] to take up arms against a local noble, or even a crown—to halt a perceived injustice. Ailendamus has enshrined that likelihood into our judicial system as an acknowledged possibility.”
The listeners were fascinated. They probably hadn’t known the law existed, but another Lucifen sneered back.
“You are quoting popular sentiment of events ex post facto. There is no legal precedent for this!”
“Yes, because Terandria’s history of adjudication is limited to the crown or local nobility in almost every kingdom but ours! What I am stating is that the case exists—”
“And if we encourage such a belief, it would lead to rampant disregard for the law. That we have acknowledged exceptions exist does not make your argument work. Chandrar’s [Slave] laws lie at the heart of their culture. There is no ‘exception’ in this case.”
Oelvix’s head lowered as his face darkened, then cleared. He turned smoothly.
“Then I cede my third point to Lord Uziel and our cousins. Which is that the law that Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Roshal hold to be justice is, in fact, incorrect and abhorrent. Which is Ailendamus’ official position. Do we judge this adventurer on their laws or ours?”
Ooh. Then every head turned back to the Agelum, and however fast and sharp the Lucifen might be with each other, they hesitated before crossing blades with their fair cousins. But then they glanced at each other and swung into it with a certain delight.
They did love to war, after all. Lord Cilrephrix bowed to Lord Uziel.
“I am sure I take your point about simple morality already, Lord Uziel. You would have us throw out our respect for other nations before a single child?”
“Yes, Cilrephrix.”
The young Lucifen rolled his eyes at the others.
“Mm. And compromise our relationship with Chandrar’s largest nation?”
“You seem to think a nation should have no backbone. Loving an adventurer would not let two reasonable nations fight overlong, surely.”
Uziel’s voice was cheerful, and a titter arose from this. The laughter had Cilrephrix flushing. He snapped back.
“Yet the law is broken. Say what you will about our own perception of any injustices committed—and House Shoel has not ruled on slavery itself—what say you to whether this young man is in the right? What gives him the right to trample on other nations’ laws? His singular ego and morality?”
His eyes flashed in defense of the law, which could be cruel, inflexible, and existed to hold up nations. Even if he was not winning the popular argument in Regalius’ mind, you had to admire the integrity of one of House Shoel’s judges. Many were nodding or waiting, and Uziel thought for a long moment.
He sat back in his wheelchair, before his multi-pupiled eyes focused on Cilrephrix with that unnerving intensity. Not calm, but conviction. A raging conviction like cold fire that had Regalius shivering. He realized that Lord Uziel was far from calm; his enchanted wheelchair’s armrests creaked as he pushed himself up with enough strength to crack the tiles at his feet.
“Morality, yes. One man’s morality clashes with the laws of a continent. And it must win. Morality means nothing if it is not defended. The moment a [Knight] fails to shield the innocent, regardless of the rules or pressures upon them, they are no [Knight]. Our failed Crusaders on Chandrar’s shores were lucky to have been routed by the King of Khelt. Or do you think our [Knights] would walk past a child being lashed as a [Slave] and keep their class?”
The rebuttal struck many present, including Regalius, who wondered what the leaders of the Knight-Orders would have to say about this if pressed. Well, they’d find out, because people were running to drag them into this conversation.
Nor was it the final word on the matter, because House Shoel was fast and came back with a rebuttal within moments. But it left everyone talking. Voices raised and arguing…and Regalius thought that there was something to this.
Once more, it was an argument about Pisces Jealnet, a [Necromancer]. Excuse me, a damn [Necromancer], but in this case…
He might have won more allies on the basis of this framing. More than one person who’d consign any [Necromancer] to the gallows hesitated to take a side against him.
On they argued, through the night. And he did not stop. Twice more, everyone halted to watch the scrying orb glow with battle, and then the conversation grew twice as heated. Only when it was late at night did it go silent. Then they were just…
Waiting for dawn.
 
——
 
Six Dustbandits were dead by the end of the day.
Only six. Given how much they’d fought, it was a testament to Merr’s abilities. The undead went in, and the [Bandits] avoided scenarios that would get them hurt or killed, just like Pisces had.
Even so, they died. Pisces didn’t know them. They had all been junior members of the gang. Not Chimes; she’d made it and was preparing to take the final batch of [Slaves] away with Chokin’ Casep.
It was just fourteen this time. They’d hit a group of [Trackers] and [Hunters] trying to pursue Scarlips’ team. They’d been moving fast, trying to avoid Merr’s group, but they’d been geared for battle. Two of the Dustbandits had gone down to enchanted arrows in the melee.
The tracking party’s [Slaves] had been specialists meant to both fight and use their Skills. They could all ride off to find this group of [Rebels] that Merr seemed to know.
“Well, it’s not all one group.”
“There’s enough of them out there to have multiple organizations?”
Merr snorted lightly.
“You think we were the first, Pisces? Dodging Roshal has been a tale old as they are. It gets easier and harder. To tell the truth, now’s probably a bad time to be a [Rebel].”
“Because of Yazdil?”
She was watching as the [Bandits] poured something out from a keg. Drinks. They had none of their dead with them; the [Bandits] had left the women as they fell, only stopping to grab anything valuable they had. Even to Pisces, it was macabre. But that was how they lived.
Once you were dead, you were gone. There was nothing to mourn, physically. But this…they were toasting the dead. A thing common to gangs across the world, he’d learned. Merr spoke as the cups came around.
“Not just him. Those new [Slave Lords] are all dangerous, I’ve heard. Everything they touch gets more efficient. So your response force is a tick faster. Higher level [Guards], that sort of thing. Yazdil was already a problem; he loves his high-level [Slaves].”
“I know.”
Pisces felt at his own neck remembering the insane bids on him. Merr grunted.
“Time was, Roshal’d throw a Djinni, and that’s bad enough. You saw that. But you can survive, and Djinni aren’t exactly motivated. Yazdil, though, he sends agents. Spies. Finds a cell, infiltrates more, sweeps everyone up under the rug, and Roshal loves former [Slaves].”
This was not the conversation to have right now, but she was just staring ahead. She took a cup, and Pisces was offered one too. He waited as Merr spoke.
“They’ve been after Bearig and his lot, but to tell the truth, I think I was the bigger target. A [Bandit Lord] is more dangerous than even the man posing as you. A more valuable target, at least.”
“Have you had attempts on your life…?”
“Oh, aye. [Assassins]. Most are easy to deal with. [Bandits] can sniff out a traitor more easily than you think. And we’re of the gangs; we know how to deal with ambushes, most traps. The Faces are nasty. You know them?”
“I haven’t run into any myself, but Erin fought the Assassin’s Guild in Izril. We fought lesser [Assassins] only, though, and it was an open battle, not them trying to ambush or poison us.”
Another shift. Friends of the dead [Bandits] were giving speeches. Chimes, the younger ones, some with tears, but most just telling a joke, an anecdote, and those with them would drink. But the rest, like Casep, Pisces, Merr, just waited in the darkness. It was late and they’d eaten, but they were exhausted, and the chill of Chandrar was upon them. Merr whispered.
“Well, Chandrar’s where they came from. The Faces here mean something. Not to say the ones of Izril weren’t bad. But a Face of Chandrar isn’t…they have a reputation to uphold, Pisces. You know? I’ve heard not a one’s under Level 50.”
Now he shivered well and truly.
“They can’t…have that many.”
“Nope, even for a Guild that goes across Chandrar. But that’s why they’re a Face, eh? It takes some doing to have one of them on you. Wouldn’t surprise me if they had—ten?”
“Ten? The King of Destruction’s Seven aren’t all over Level 50!”
“He’s got vassals that high-level. Gazi’s the exception. It’s Roshal, Pisces. You think they’re some joke? The Blighted Kingdom could field fifty over Level 50, I’ll bet. Probably.”
Pisces thought about that. A kingdom at war with the Demons…and he knew how strong the Deaths were, even if only two of them had levels.
“So that’s the might of world powers.”
It was bitter he had to put Roshal in that category. Merr just nodded.
“Yep, well, I think one of them’s on me. Or you. It was a rumor I got from the Siren a while back. I communicate with her now and then. We have a trick, y’see. Can’t do speaking stones. Can’t do [Messages]. Losing those idiots was a trick and a half.”
She nodded at the sky; they’d dodged the final scrying spells after a lot of zig-zag riding and even a few duststorms to hide where they were going. Manually scrying a position to bypass anti-scrying spells was hard, but doable. Pisces gazed at Merr.
“So how do you…?”
“How would any cunning fellow do it? You tell me.”
He thought about it, frowning. Merr smiled.
“Nah, we don’t have time for that. It’s dead drops. The same trick I use to give her the tithe. She takes our artifacts, removes trackers and curses, turns it into gold. Takes her damn cut as [Bandit Queen], but provides me with recruits, magic, information. It appears in the chest. And she can drop a speaking stone. Temporary, warded long enough for us to chat.”
“Very smart. Is—I’ve heard Savere’s a bandit nation, and Revine is a [Bandit Queen]?”
Merr waved a hand.
“Sort of. One step down from the real thing. Revine’s just a monarch who’s a bandit. So…[Bandit Queen]. But there’s an actual [King of Bandits] or [King of Pirates]—the real deal. They’d rule everything. It’s a legend among our class. Nigh impossible to create. I might be high-enough level, and Maresar was, but there’s not enough of us to turn Revine into a true [Queen of Banditkind] or whatever the fuck her name would be. Same for the sea. You’d need seven, eight [Pirate Ladies], and maybe Rasea counts, but I doubt she has the exact class. It’s very complex. Revine’s made her kingdom, and that took a lot of doing. But we’re not exactly world-class.”
“Yet.”
That made her grin. That huge, satisfied grin of someone who wanted to be recognized for what she was. Then Merr went back to gazing out into the night.
“…Revine didn’t know much. Only that it was probably a Face. They’ve got a title, of sorts. It’s probably not their full title, but they were known as…the Ringer.”
She waggled her eyebrows at Pisces, and he hesitated. Almost sipped from his cup.
“Is this like, uh, how you make fun of Mars with her title? Because it doesn’t sound—”
“Nah, I was so mad. The Ringer? C’mon. It’s probably code or something, but does that mean they’re, like, the one who you send in to seal the deal? That kind of ‘ringer’? Or is it like giant bells?”
“One assumes that would be noticeable.”
Merr chuckled, then went serious.
“Anyways, just so you know. If they’re in the area, they might come after you.”
Pisces hung his head. That twist of fear in his guts…he wondered if his team was safe. And Merr noticed. She slapped his shoulder.
“Hey, you did what you had to do. Don’t worry, your team’s not stupid. Nor are we. Think I’d let you talk me into more attacks if it was suicide? You lose people in every fight. As for your team…Casep. You said you pulled a memory crystal of something earlier, right? Show it.”
Casep turned from the people, waiting for the speeches to be over. She proffered a crystal and spoke.
“[Recorded Vision: Playback].”
It wasn’t the best quality, but it was of a scrying orb. Pisces saw none other than Ceria Springwalker, Colth, and…he blinked.
“That’s my team. What are they doing with—me?”
Pisces Jealnet was sniffing as he and the Horns of Hammerad marched towards a rather imposing swirl of moving sands. Merr grinned.
“That’s a Sandworm.”
It erupted out of the ground moments later, and Ceria went skating away as Colth opened fire with a shortbow. ‘Pisces’ went running, even [Flash Stepping] forward and swung his sword at the Sandworm when it lunged. The fight sped up as Casep hit a few buttons—Pisces was watching himself. The false Pisces was good with a sword, but he had a feeling…
Then Ceria was there, ruffling Pisces’ hair and speaking to a [Mage] interviewing her.
“Yeah, the real Ice Squirrel’s here, and the real Pisces, too. Don’t mistake that schnozz anywhere! It’s all fake, television stuff these days. You know illusion spells exist? First poor Archmage Amerys falls for it, now this. Dead gods, you Stitch-folk can wear anyone’s face! Or did all those other Banes and Scourges not clue you in?”
She laughed hugely, and Pisces felt his chest tighten and ease at the same time.
“So that’s what she was doing.”
“Nice act; who’s playing you? Can’t be the Silver Killer. She wasn’t showing her face.”
Casep nudged Pisces, and he frowned.
“I think it’s…Prince Zenol.”
“The [Prince]?”
They were all amused, but it made sense to Pisces. The fake him was nimble and used that rapier well. He’d even cast [Flash Step] and [Deathbolt] in the battle.
“I bet Ceria and Colth found scrolls of the spells; he’s around my height, and Elena could do his makeup.”
“Who? Ain’t no way a Human can change skin or faces that well.”
Merr refused to believe it. But either way, it was enough. Plausible deniability. Pisces exhaled, then Casep covered her memory crystal.
“Boss, your turn.”
Then Merr strode forwards, and Pisces listened to that old refrain. The [Bandit Lady] did not give a long speech. Just one that seemed timeless.
“They weren’t [Bandits] to shake cities. Nor did we ride with ‘em long. So what? They were ours. They might have been. So raise a glass, all of you! Raise it, and drink to what might have been. If you’re going to cry, cry. We’ll miss ‘em. Next time, we’ll give the bastards what they deserve. But their killers are dead and lie with them. That’s enough for the likes of us. Here’s to our girls…”
She never glanced at Pisces, but he felt the eyes of the Dustbandits on him. They’d died for him, and Pisces drank the burning drink down and coughed, wiping at his mouth.
He didn’t give a speech, then. That was not appropriate.
It came out of him later. Merr’s Dustbandits stayed up, tending to injuries, drinking into the night. He wanted to keep attacking Roshal, but the deaths, the exhaustion, had driven some of the glamor from this.
Merr hadn’t sugarcoated it. She’d told him that if he wanted them to join him tomorrow, he had to give them a reason. Be it gold or levels or…
He sat there, near the flameless embers as they warmed him, and he spoke.
“It’s just one girl. A Drake girl, eight years old or so, in that city. Halqued. I couldn’t do anything. Everyone was holding me back, and I knew it would be true suicide to do it.”
Casep lingered with the [Slaves], drinking before she hit the road. Chimes leaned out of her saddle, listening and nearly falling out, and Casep’s voice was acerbic.
“So you chose to hang yourself instead of takin’ the axe?”
A murmur, not entirely agreement, but the women focused on Pisces, and Merr’s face was unreadable as she lounged across from him. Just listening. Pisces peeked around, and he clenched his hands on some sand.
“I know it’s nonsensical, Casep. But when I looked at her—Lleta—I saw Mrsha. Or Visma. They’re kids from my city, Liscor. And if it had been them…I couldn’t walk away. But neither could I do—anything.”
His voice broke slightly, and Casep spat and glanced away. But Pisces regained his composure after a second.
“I’m just a coward.”
A Dustbandit with dyed blue hair sitting next to Pisces stopped drinking and rubbed a finger in one ear before checking her drink. Pisces nodded at her.
“I am. Truly, a coward after all I’ve done and whatever they call me. Gold-rank adventurer? If I wasn’t, I would climb those walls and set her free. No matter what came between me and her.”
His rapier’s hilt sat there, a worn piece of metal as eyes fell to it. Pisces shook his head.
“…But I didn’t. Because my friends would be put in danger. My team—I couldn’t do that. And yet, at the same time, they will not stop. That girl is innocent, and they took her, just like me.”
His voice rose, not to a shout, but he was gazing away from them. Towards that distant city. Then Pisces regarded the Dustbandits.
“I am not blind to what I’m doing. I just snapped. It feels righteous. I only hope, when this is over, that Roshal only comes to kill me. My team is innocent. That’s why I’m doing this. Caught between the thing I should do and what I know will destroy everything.”
Casep was leaning against her horse. She was doing something, one of the [Bandits] assigned to her escort duty realized.
She had memory crystals she could fill with her [Captured Vision], which allowed her to create free recordings. Perfect for a scout in any role, or someone casing a caravan or spot for a break-in or raid. She was doing that now.
“Hey, Casep, what’s that for?”
Casep whispered back.
“Shurrup. I’m just recordin’ it.”
“Why?”
“You didn’t see Ksmvr of Chandrar doin’ the rounds? It’s still the most popular ‘movie’-thing. You think this might not be worth something?”
Good point. The [Bandits] fell silent. Pisces went on, unaware anyone was saving this for posterity.
“I’m a coward indeed, because I want to live. When this is over, I do want to go back home and…not die. That’s the cowardice. I can’t do this until I die. There’s a city where it rains all spring and floods. Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, Antinium—you have to see it to believe it. I want to take you there, Merr. To see the Floodplains and have you say something funny about it. I want to bring everyone there.”
The [Bandit Lady] stirred, and he smiled at her like Pisces. An expression she might have never seen on his face, except once. The man he was in another continent leaking forth from the Scourge. Then Pisces looked around.
“Chandrar is beautiful too. Grand and majestic. So harsh and unforgiving as well. The Great Desert is terrifying. Yet it has so much magic. I think I could love this place except for Roshal. But for that and I could truly enjoy my time here. I cannot sleep because of that harbor and what I’ve been through. I know it sounds judgemental, but for that one thing…”
He trailed off, then someone spoke. Another Dustbandit, an older woman, was re-bandaging an arrow wound on one arm. She was a Garuda and flightless; her wing-feathers had been clipped when her clan expelled her. She met Pisces’ gaze directly.
“Not badly said. But tell me, Adventurer, [Necromancer]. What will you do when you find your home or elsewhere is just as bad as our land? When the Walled Cities do something as foul, if not to you, then someone you love?”
Pisces returned her gaze, then he gazed up at the glorious stars. Then he nodded.
“Ride towards it, I hope.”
A pause, then he smiled for reasons no one could understand. Pisces kept staring up at the stars.
“Yes. No matter what it is, I hope I will not flee it. However, even if I look away or halt, it doesn’t matter. For I know she’ll pull me onwards and make me see.”
Aha. A sigh seemed to run through all present. As if a great puzzle made by a master had finally been solved by the critical piece. The Garuda glanced at Pisces.
“Who’s that? Your lover?”
Pisces gave her such a blank look. As if he had no idea what she was talking about. Then he smiled.
“No. My [Innkeeper].”
Such an odd answer it provoked a hundred questions. Thence he sat there, and after a while, Chokin’ Casep finished recording and tossed the memory crystal to a friend.
“Put that in the loot chest and discreetly find someone that might be worth somethin’ to. Shame I’ve gotta ride out. Or I’d have to shoot my shot with him. Bad as Barelle the Bard, that one.”
Then she was gone, riding into the darkness, and chuckling. Pisces? He just smiled as he talked about home. Utterly oblivious to why they found him captivating. That was, in the end, part of his strange charm.
 
——
 
The next day brought a lot of changes to the world. In the night, dozens of ships set sail, though the journey was treacherous. Some said impossible.
But what was a ship to do but brave the journey? Nevermind if they crashed and sunk—better to have sailed for wild adventure and that distant horizon than not at all.
Aye, and this was a harder journey than most, and the wars at sea were fierce. But the fleet burned gloriously.
Merr was amazed, in fact, how oblivious Pisces was to all of it. He even remarked as much to her the next morning.
“Your Dustbandits are very friendly, Merr. More of that cultural divide between us and Izril.”
“Ah, you’re finally awake. You think so?”
Her face was utterly straight as she watched him eating breakfast. He nodded.
“Half of your gang wanted to get in a steam tent with me; I realized how filthy I was, so I used [Cleanse] since it was so late. I also received a number of offers to stay warm at night. By, ah, sharing bedrolls.”
Not a twitch. Not a glimmer of a smile or a moment of self-analysis. One of the [Dustbandits] was pouring tea over her hand and staring at him. Merr took a bite of breakfast.
“That’s us Chandrarians, open to sharing everything. You didn’t take them up on it?”
Pisces sniffed.
“Well, it’s my foreign sensibilities. I’m just a bit of a weaker traveller. No offense given, I hope.”
“None at all, Pisces m’boy. None at all. You ever want to hop into the sheets together, you say the word, and you’ll have plenty of volunteers. Let me know if you want to give it a go with me.”
He thought about that.
“Maybe that would get me used to the idea. I’ll consider it, Merr.”
Merr the Storm watched a [Bandit] begin choking to death behind Pisces. She nodded at him.
“Anytime.”
 
——
 
You see, that conversation did make Pisces feel better. He’d been searching Merr’s face to see if she was laughing at him or he had it wrong, but he concluded it had been an actual offer of sociability, not…romance.
Because he’d been thinking Colth was going to laugh at him if he made the same mistake again, and he had been picking up on a certain amorousness to the proposals. However, then Pisces had thought about it logically.
Was there a Dustbandit who might be open to a certain assignation, even while on the trail? Naturally, but that many?
No, no. It was obviously a prank, which wasn’t a problem so long as he didn’t fall for it. But the offers had been so genuinely worded he had to assume it was actually cultural. Because if your ego was extreme, you might assume, what, four ladies might be into you at one time?
But that many? Pisces’ ego was not Perric-sized enough to assume that. Merr had just confirmed it. He wiped at his brows, relieved he’d been honest about this one and gotten ahead of it.
 
——
 
That was the funny part about the morning, and yes, one of the [Bandits] did get that on a recording crystal. It would later become legend, and Pisces would see that recording in his nightmares.
But then it got…less funny.
Very quickly.
Merr was not sold on a second day of rides despite Pisces’ increased popularity with her gang. She was checking her news sources, making plans, when Scarlips returned.
“Hey, boss, we got our band to safety. No problems. But, eh, uh, you calm?”
“Who the fuck asks if I’m calm?”
“Just siddown, boss.”
“I’m on horseback.”
“I know, but maybe get off and sit down? I, uh—”
Scarlips was very nervous, and she kept glancing at Pisces. Merr slid off her saddle and walked over to confer with Scarlips as the woman showed her something. Another recording crystal; [Bandits] loved them for the ways they avoided scrying orbs. The Singer of Terandria was huge among them despite Revine’s grudge against her, apparently.
After five minutes, Merr came striding over to Pisces.
“Hey, Necrolad, we’re hitting Roshal like we’re a [Pimp] and they owe us money. Dustbandits, we ride!”
She set a pace so fast that Pisces was astonished. She didn’t even know where they were—and Pisces saw more and more [Dustbandits] getting mad.
As they rode with Scarlips. They glanced at him, began swearing—he tried to ride back, but Scarlips instantly rode away from him.
“Merr, what is it? What’s wrong?”
“Something on the scrying orbs. It’s televised. Don’t worry about it. Hey, get me a target! I know they’re in hiding—find me someone to stab!”
Merr shouted, and Pisces glanced at her. Then at the recording crystal.
“Merr…what is it? Is it my team? Yvlon? Was there an assassination attempt? On—on the inn?”
He began to get worried. Merr avoided his gaze.
“Nah. Not that.”
Then was it good news…? No. One look at her face and Pisces knew it was something bad. But what—? She gave curt orders, and they rode in silence before she twitched her head.
“It won’t do you any good to see it. Listen. Someone in Roshal hates you. You knew they’d do something. Well, I’ve never…no, I’ve seen rumors spread. But that’s low.”
“What?”
Merr chose her words carefully.
“You know how Bearig, the other [Rebels], use your face like a shield? They pretend it’s you so they, or their families, are not targeted?”
Pisces began to get a bad feeling. Merr stared ahead.
“Yes. What? Did they—?”
His mind jumped ahead, and she nodded once.
“It’s just someone with your face. Not even a great likeness. Doin’, well, depraved things to [Slaves].”
“…What things?”
He felt cold. Merr refused to answer. She just clicked her tongue, and the Nightmare rode harder, leaving a trail of flames on the ground where its hooves touched.
“Scarlips said that there were already denials occurring on the scrying orb. Your team, others—just ride, Pisces. They want to start shit? They’ll get it.”
Pisces was silent as he thought and imagined what someone from Roshal would do to…his mind jerked away from the possibilities. He didn’t go to Scarlips and ask to see. The answer was plain in the Dustbandit’s sudden silence and the pace Merr set.
He rode as the flames of fury burned hotter today. But what he didn’t realize was that the recording that Roshal had broadcast was worse than he could imagine.
So foul that it provoked that thing they seldom ran into.
Consequences.
 
——
 
Shaullile, the [Slave Lord] in charge of communications and Roshal’s image, was not as upset as Pazeral thought. He had expected her to be.
He was in fine good humor, laughing all morning about the revenge he’d orchestrated. It was not hard. If that adventurer thought to hide behind the most basic lies, well, another man could hire an actor and find some [Slaves].
None of them had even died. He was only disappointed the imagery hadn’t been broadcast worldwide. It had been censored, apparently, for ‘disturbing content’, and the broadcasters refused to even read a full description of what had occurred.
You could do worse. And he was already planning a sequel; more than one [Slave Master] had spoken to him about how amusing it was.
Pazeral’s one thought had been that Shaullile, that picky child born to one of the more recent eras, would throw a fit. She was always talking about Roshal’s image and what to do—it annoyed him endlessly.
He was the oldest of Roshal. He had well and truly dragged this Pisces’ name into the muck. No one would hear his name without associating it with—well, again, sequels.
It was the [Slave Lord]’s good mood that had him feasting with his favorite [Slaves] and laughing as he waited for the television-thing to turn on Pisces. He was eating as he broke his fast in fine form…which turned into puzzlement and silence as the opposite occurred.
Archmage Eldavin appeared in between broadcasts of that morning’s footage—well, recaps of it. He looked straight into the camera and spoke.
“I am Archmage Eldavin of Wistram. On behalf of the academy, I would like to state our findings. Firstly, the recorded image of ‘Pisces Jealnet’ engaging in heinous actions with several [Slaves] was indeed sent from Lailight Scintillation. Moreover, despite his appearance, I believe that this was not the actual Gold-rank Adventurer, and in fact a Stitch-man wearing a facemask to look like him. I personally denounce such vileness, and I have ordered a full moratorium on any information sent from Roshal. Wistram Academy is pondering other actions of censure.”
“He what?”
Pazeral leapt to his feet in a rage, overturning a tray of delights. This fool hadn’t said a word before—!
Wistram. Wistram. In Pazeral’s mind, it was a foolish community of exiles, not some grand ‘academy’. He was swearing oaths, demanding Roshal censure him, when another person appeared on the scrying orb.
“Is this damn thing on? Hello, yes, yes, I’m the King of Bows of Avel. I realize I’m not part of this affair, but I’m sending this thing in—what? We’re live? Well, anyways.”
A [King] sat on a throne. And he seemed angry, but most [Kings] were just uppity men before being collared. Pazeral recognized the bow, though. Itreimedes spoke.
“I saw those…images. And I’m aware there’s some adventurer breaking laws in Chandrar, freeing [Slaves]. Well, if that’s what’s happening to them, I see why. Now, someone in my court is going to say something about me ‘not getting political’. Well?”
He turned, and the Court of Avel, known for hurling things at him when they disagreed, were silent. The King of Bows blinked, then went on. He waved a shaking finger around.
“That…who’s responsible for that? I want them to stand trial for—you know what, just line them up and I’ll take the shot from here. All of this? It feels like someone’s taking a Gold-rank Adventurer’s name and smearing it through the mud. That’s a concern for the Adventurer’s Guild worldwide, isn’t it? If anyone can just impersonate someone and do that with—”
He was beginning to shout, growing redder-faced, before he went quiet. The [King] sat back on his throne, and then he mused for a moment.
“No, I’ve said my piece. Avel condemns any falsity, and as far as I’m concerned, I’m not even sure if Adventurer Pisces is in Chandrar. Is that what Roshal gets up to? We don’t trade with them, but no ship passes by Avel, for what that’s worth. Or it’ll see how well it dodges the Bow of Avel.”
He made a gesture, and the image cut off. Then Pazeral was still furious. Wistram, Avel, so what? Then—the image flickered again, and someone from one of the Walled Cities appeared. And he began to realize, perhaps…
He’d gone too far. It was when the Blighted Kingdom offered a condemnation of the broadcast that Pazeral’s good humor became uncertainty. Just for a moment.
“As if you don’t do worse with your own children behind closed doors.”
He snarled. But this wasn’t his era, was it? They were all polite and refined. That Terandrian [Slave Lord] had been closer to Pazeral’s nature but incautious. A fool. Pazeral swiped a hand out.
“Someone find me Shaullile. Ask her what’s going on. Doesn’t she have a Skill?”
For answer, one of his favorite [Slaves] purred in his ear.
“She already knows, Lord Pazeral. This is from her.”
The Jinn felt the kiss of metal as he tore around, reaching for his blade. He was fast, high-level—he beheaded the [Slave], but he still took the stab below the ribs, and it burned. Poison.
He was howling in the next moment, but it wasn’t meant to kill. The [Slave Lord] writhed on the ground, screaming for vengeance as he received how Shaullile felt about the situation. What he knew, though, despite his fury, was that she was a cautious woman.
If she ordered him stabbed—the others had allowed it.
 
——
 
Killing Pazeral was too extreme for his actions, Shaullile knew. They couldn’t lose him, but he had to learn a lesson. Which was never, ever do this again.
She sat in her tower and didn’t watch the scrying orb. It’d be too bitter.
“My Skill only works so long as you don’t break the cover, fool.”
The ghost wearing a Drake’s body didn’t want to calculate how much damage he’d done to her nation in a single action. Pazeral was an idiot who didn’t get diplomacy like this. He was used to his era.
In this one? Some things crossed the line, and then every nation, even ones who were allies like the Blighted Kingdom, had to stab you or be shown to be the odd ones out.
It had been…bad. No way to cover up that from any angle. Pazeral had done a splendid job of reminding people why they didn’t like slavery.
She hoped the poison really hurt.
“Idiot.”
Then she rose to try and mend bridges with the Serpentine Matriarch, and that was going to suck.
 
——
 
Baron Regalius watched as Ceria Springwalker blew down the doors of a Slaver’s Guild in Tyrant’s Rest and started firing spells inside. The Horns of Hammerad were reacting to the broadcast, well, like any team who’d just had a teammate being accused of that.
It said something how much one recording could change things. Like Ksmvr of Chandrar, only more dramatically—few voices in the Court of Masks wanted to take umbrage with Pisces Jealnet today.
An investigation was being launched on top of the extant investigation, but [Court Mages] had already assured His Majesty Itorin II that it was almost certainly a fake as Wistram had stated. Regalius was taking a drink to forget what he’d seen, despite the early hour.
It didn’t work, but he wondered how Roshal was that idiotic. Emir Yazdil was said to be a cunning man. That new power he’d heard about? Well…he glanced over and heard a calm voice.
“It appears sentiment has changed regarding Adventurer Jealnet. I do remind you all, though, he is still breaking the law.”
You had to admire someone who refused to change convictions. Lady Shierxun ignored the outraged looks and arguments and drove back to her point.
“The actions of Roshal reflect upon them. I simply remind you all that the crux of my argument was about his actions pertaining to the law. New evidence against Roshal has emerged, but I have made a judgement based on observable facts. He has broken the law. That is still criminal.”
“Until the law changes, you mean, Lady Shierxun.”
Regalius called out, and the woman turned and favored him with a slight smile. She bowed her head.
“Exactly, Baron. Thank you for understanding my point.”
He inclined his head and, that explosion defused, went on with his conversation. But dead gods—Regalius muttered.
“I miss Viscount Visophecin.”
He was a bit easier to speak with than some members of his family. But so went court life, and they were, at this moment, more focused on this one distant adventurer than the simmering war with the Dawn Concordat or anything else. That was people for you.
Unfortunately, it was not the blow to damn Roshal’s reputation forever, or even for long. Baron Regalius was a man who practiced soft power in class and studied it. His brother had always respected the role of diplomacy, but never understood it well.
But it could do so much. Even bend truth. Regalius had another scrying orb which he was glancing at. It had a broadcast that he was enjoying watching far less.
Nation after nation were lining up to condemn Roshal. It was a bad moment for the nation—but only for a moment. Within half an hour of the King of Bow’s angry speech, Lailight Scintillation had issued a condemnation of the video through the Mage’s Guild and every news network that would have them on.
That video? Unacceptable. It wasn’t sanctioned by the Masters of Roshal, their decision-making body, the Slaver’s Guild—anyone, really.
This abhorrent action was the product of a diseased mind. One which does not even belong to our great nation proper, but was meant to slander our good name and the laws and codes which protect all [Slaves].
A vigorously upset spokesperson was defending himself on air to anyone who would listen. He was righteously angry.
“This was not an action of Roshal! As a representative of the Slaver’s Guild, I condemn this. In fact, I believe the [Executioner] is almost ready. We have not caught the main perpetrator, but the actor in the videos, the [Mage] who sent this abhorrence under our name—”
The broadcast from Roshal cut to a platform just before the harbor waters. A crowd was gathered as a trio of figures were being led to a stained block. The image switched back to the representative for Roshal. He smiled as Baron Regalius’ stomach turned. He watched a figure with an axe stride forwards, raise it, and—
Dead gods, they were fast. Regalius glanced away after a moment and wondered if those really had been the actual perpetrators.
It didn’t matter, in the end. Roshal denounced the recording, and that was enough. The Blighted Kingdom maintained its condemnation of Roshal; the Archmage of Memories refused to broadcast the apology on Wistram News Network, but the furore of voices slowed.
It was harder to shout at Roshal when the nation claimed they were also victim to false narratives. Risky to point the finger—
“A damnably good play.”
It soured Regalius so much he had to take another drink of wine, feeling much like the dregs of it were in his throat. He reminded himself that the damage was still done on their side. It had still left an impact. When he gazed around Ailendamus’ courts, the mood was well and truly on the side of Pisces Jealnet.
A week ago, this would have been unthinkable even had I put every scrap of influence and Skill behind him. Between Pisces’ father and Roshal…Regalius sat back. He’d rather not overplay his hand, then. Just wait until one man could step upon the balance-beam and sway it all.
Why, Regalius almost looked forwards to the next raid, but when it came, it wasn’t what he expected.
 
——
 
A problem for Pisces and Merr. Not the reaction to the fake video about him. Pisces didn’t get a great image of the local populace’s perspective, but Stitch-folk weren’t idiots. Some might see or hear it and fall for it, but the fact that the ‘Scourge’ had already been known to be in multiple places at once was helping.
Rather, the opposite was true. Because every eye was on him, they kept being intercepted. Not just by scrying spells, but by the biggest problem of all:
Observers.
Merr was riding her Dustbandits hard, but even then, one of Wistram’s Magical Carriages still caught up.
“Adventurer Pisces! Is that you? I’m broadcasting—I’m trying to broadcast—hey, is it you? Just say so if—”
One of the [Dustbandits] pointed.
“[Wheelbreaker Stone]!”
The magical carriage hit a stone—and kept going. The [Dustbandit] swore until Merr came alongside the carriage and drew her sword. Then the wheel exploded in mana, and the person leaning out the window nearly fell out with a scream.
“Wait! I—”
“Keep riding!”
Merr shouted, but the problem was that that magical carriage was one amongst many. Pisces glanced up and a group of Garuda were descending.
“That’s him! I’m Reporter Jil! I’m—”
One of the Dustbandits nearly shot the overzealous Garuda out of the air before Merr snapped.
“That’s it—[Call the Storm]! We ride!”
That broke off some pursuit, but their followers were on the roads, trying to get to Pisces. And you know what?
That made it really hard to maintain plausible deniability. Especially since everyone was analyzing footage to prove if Pisces was the real thing.
 
——
 
“Dead gods damnit! Those bastards in Roshal might have shot themselves, but they’ve still made it too hard to attack anyone without puttin’ your face on the scrying orb! And you need some cover or the Queen’ll have to deal with you.”
Pisces wasn’t sure what Yisame thought, but he agreed as they sat in sand-tents under a dune; the excited ‘reporters’ were racing around trying to find them. He shifted.
“We don’t have to hit Roshal, Merr. This might be—”
“Hell to that! There’s a watering station where Roshal drinks from along their Leashed Trails! We blow that in, they won’t have a guaranteed rest-spot for a hundred miles!”
They’d gone northwards, and this was where Nerrhavia’s Fallen began to border a smaller desert. Pisces glanced at her.
“That’s more than I’d normally risk…”
“It’s independent. We can tear it up, at least their people. But there’s dozens of fools waiting to see us do just that.”
The Slaver’s Guild was, rather cleverly, using the excited Pisces-fans as a shield. He tried to stretch out in the tent as sand pressed down on them. His undead had buried themselves too, and he was worried one chance breeze would reveal the lot of them.
“Well, what do we do?”
“I’m thinking. Maybe…”
Merr’s eyes flickered. Then she smiled, once, as she glanced at him.
“Maybe we give ‘em what they want, eh? If it’s the Scourge they’re after and everyone’s using your face…let’s give them the Scourge. But not just one of them.”
He blinked at her, and she reached into her bag of holding and pulled something out. Pisces recoiled as she waved a cloth face at him. It was meant to be sewn onto your features, and didn’t look as lifelike as when it attached to skin, but—
“Merr! Why do you have that?”
She gave him a puzzled look.
“What? You knew we were doing this. You think Bearig was the only one who…hold on, you gotta change up your fabric a bit. Otherwise, it looks really stupid or off. I mean it’s still really funny. Hey, girls! Who’s got a Scourge-face? Put it on!”
Laughter from the other tents. Pisces’ mouth fell open.
 
——
 
It was not like looking into a mirror. When Merr the Storm emerged from her tent, for one thing she was still brawnier than Pisces. Different skin tone—this Pisces was noticeably darker-skinned, but not like he had a tan.
Also—Merr hadn’t changed her body that much. This Pisces had breasts and feminine curves. Yet the part that threw him, left him speechless, was…it sort of fit.
Stitch-folk were geniuses of appearance. They took the image of Pisces and adapted his face to match bodies. It wasn’t like them wearing a mask with his face on it—it was too natural.
No less than eighteen different Pisceses, more than half female, were laughing at him. Nudging each other or trying to out-Pisces each other, sniffing, flourishing with rapiers…Merr-Pisces winked at him.
“You look like you’ve seen a ghost. Or your reflection. Pisces m’boy, how’s this for a distraction? If we all go together, who’s to say who’s who, eh?”
“Genius, boss.”
Scarlips was grinning, and Merr kicked at her.
“Shut up. I don’t need sycophancy when I know I’m right. Okay, get ready to ride! Is Casep not reported in? We could use the muscle for this one. It’s gonna get heavy.”
The Dustbandits cheered; they were angry on Pisces’ behalf and ready for a fight. However, Merr saw Pisces was still staring at her, and his face was so genuinely disconcerted she hesitated.
“Oi, Necrolad. You okay? You look sick.”
“Told you the breakfast sausage was off.”
Scarlips put in, and Pisces jerked.
“I—no, Merr. It’s fine. I—I knew Bearig was doing that. It’s just strange.”
His face. She blinked at him, and it was like himself in the mirror, only more feminine, and—he turned away.
“Hey, what’s the problem? Sick of your own look?”
She came over to give him a one-armed hug, but he retreated. Brushed off her arm.
“It’s f—I need a moment, Merr. I think I’m a bit disoriented. I know it’s my face, and it’s just to keep away from Roshal, but…”
He felt unwell. Vaguely nauseous. Merr was about to say something snarky when she peered at him, then turned.
“Hey, scissors. One second—”
She put her old face back on and then towed him to the side. Pisces was rubbing at his stomach.
“I didn’t think that’d bother you after all we’ve done.”
“It’s not. I just—I don’t know, it feels uncomfortable.”
It felt very uncomfortable seeing people joking around with his face. Imagining…whatever had been on the broadcast. Like Erin.
“It’s a good idea, Merr. I just don’t—I had a moment of worry for a second. What if it becomes a trend and people don’t realize who I am? Especially if there’s the television.”
What if the Pisces they got to know wasn’t him? Merr blinked at the Human man, trying to understand. She saw him shiver, and an expression of guilt passed over her face.
“Ah. I don’t know if I fully get it. I’m…we’re Stitch-folk, Pisces. Used to swapping faces or even changing what we look like entirely. You only know me as Merr; you’d have thought I was a different person as a kid. There’s Alterkinds, but even with regular Stitch-folk, I just stitched myself like a man for six years when I was first riding as a [Bandit]. Thought that was better before I realized I just wanted the respect I thought having a second sword between the legs gave me.”
That made Pisces’ head spin a bit more. He rasped.
“I don’t…I know that, Merr. I don’t begrudge Bearig. I’m just concerned…”
She patted him on the shoulders.
“Yeah, well, you think that we only do this for you? Plenty of people probably have fun with someone else’s face in bed. Imposters trying to pass themselves off as someone more important—it’s an entire thing in Stitch-folk culture. You truly never visited us long or you’d have seen it. It’s as easy as changing clothes for us…which is why we envy you Humans and other species.”
That was an unexpected turn to the conversation. It gave Pisces something to focus on, and he blinked at her.
“How so? You can appear as beautiful as you want, Merr. Do you know how many Human women would kill to roll out of bed like you?”
She elbowed him.
“Hey, stop flirting, I’m being serious.”
“I wasn’t—”
Merr the Storm just shook her head and regarded a little mirror she used to fix her stitching. She eyed her features and laughed.
“Any Cotton woman in the world can look this good. D’you know how worthless it is to look like this when anyone can copy a shape of the nose? Whereas your face—that’s set. That’s why it’s more valuable, Pisces. Everything from that weird sniffer to the color of your hair—”
She ruffled it and sighed.
“You’ve got an identity. Us Stitch-folk long to be someone who’s more than how we’re sewn up. Like a Torreb. That’s probably why Bearig came up with the idea. Because you’re more of a thing to rally around than he thought he was.”
“But Bearig’s inspiring. He’s the one who…”
The [Bandit Lady] turned her head as she rose.
“I know. But that’s the insecurity that comes of someone who can change. If it can all vanish with the snip of scissors, is it real? I suppose we didn’t think on how it feels for someone to take the only identity you’ve got. Sorry, Pisces.”
She ducked her head, and he realized she was bowing to him. It wasn’t a familiar gesture on Merr, and Pisces rose too.
“You didn’t…all’s forgiven, Merr. I was just rattled. I want to do this. Your plan’s good. Just thank you for understanding.”
She eyed him, then hugged him again with both arms.
“Argh, you could punch me, but I suppose that’s not your way. Good! Then I’ll tell the girls not to get feisty with each other with your face on. After you shot all of ‘em down last night, I bet one or two—”
He was so open-mouthed she hesitated.
“Eh, just pretend you didn’t understand that like the rest and we’ll be golden.”
“Wait, those were actually proposals?”
She stared at him. A few [Dustbandits] turned. They stared at him too. Toothie the Nightmare stopped munching on feed and stared at Pisces.
You had to admit, it did get his mind off the Pisces-face thing.
 
——
 
Merr laughed for nearly two hours straight. She nearly fell off her horse from lack of oxygen. That wasn’t the worst part. The worst part was her horse laughing too.
And the Dustbandits.
And many of them offering to correct Pisces’ misapprehensions. Which meant he was not entertaining any offers because everyone was laughing at him.
Pisces thought he heard skeleton jaws rattling along at one point, but when he glared, the Skeleton Champions were jogging along, straight-faced. Just his imagination, then.
There was only one saving grace in all of this, which was that it got him over the weird uncanny valley of people wearing his face. He was sure he didn’t make that expression when he guffawed—which was all they were doing.
Okay, two saving graces: when Merr paused to gulp air, she finally told him where Eloque was.
“I’ve got t’ tell her about this. I miss that damn lizard!”
“Where is she, Merr?”
Pisces had feared, from the way he’d heard Bearig and the others talking, that she was…not captive, surely, or they’d have said. But Merr just pulled out her stomach.
“This hurts so bad—get me another so I can keep laughing! Eloque’s just not with the [Rebels]. You couldn’t tear Rophir away from Bearig with mithril chain, for all the danger. And Qshom’s levelled. He made my thread, actually. [Freedom’s String]. He’s become so valuable that any Stitch-person would hire him and treat him like a Named-rank.”
That [Tailor] had become so high-level he could make unique string? Pisces’ heart leapt, and Merr nodded.
“Counterlevelling against Roshal…Bearig’s going to be our level soon, if he hasn’t spiked again. He’s a real monster in combat. Turns out a lot of [Cook] Skills work well in combat. [Cut to the Bone]?”
She shuddered, and Pisces winced. Then focused hungrily.
“Eloque. Where is she? Did she try to go home?”
Merr waved a hand.
“Nah. Too far, and she didn’t know where…if anyone’ll join you, it’s her. But remember how her scales were all sewn up?”
Igheriz’s work. Pisces’ jaw clenched, and she winked at him.
“Don’t ruin our good looks, Pisces. No, she wanted to do something, but she never fancied herself as natural at fighting as Bearig. And when we were gettin’ out of Pomle, she knew we needed allies, more than I or the [Rebels] could provide. So guess where she went?”
Pisces couldn’t think. Where did a [Slave] go to get support in Chandrar of all places? Some…anti-Roshal kingdom? Jecrass was a good example of a kingdom that Roshal didn’t like, and he doubted King Raelt could do more than turn his head.
Then he had it.
“Wait, did she join Pomle? Tiqr?”
An approving eye from Merr.
“Almost. She weighed both options, but neither nation exactly hates us, eh? The Strongest fought his damn war all because of [Slaves], so who’s she going to convince? Plus, she was worried about that Salii hatin’ her because she was Lizardfolk. Tiqr makes sense, but she might as well ride with Bearig since she’s no warrior. Nope. She’s doing that thing all the kids hate.”
Pisces had utterly no idea what Merr was talking about until the [Bandit Lady] leaned over and winked.
“Monking.”
 
——
 
Eloque had joined a monastery. It was the craziest thing Pisces could imagine until Merr gave it context.
“Not the Monks of Sottheim. They’re weird even for [Monks]. No, she found some nice place around the Great Desert. You get lots of [Monks] in isolation, and most don’t care for Roshal. Vows of poverty and all that. She wanted to make sure she was plenty tough, and who’s better than them?”
A [Monk] was akin to a [Martial Artist]; take away their weapons and most were trained to still be plenty dangerous. It made lots of sense to Pisces. He wondered if a [Monk] could literally rip enchanted manacles off their body.
Merr nodded.
“You get it. Not just that: she’s been working on the monastery she was sent to. Telling them her story and seeing if they’ll help. The Monks of…eh, what’s their name?”
“Galam?”
Pisces threw out the one [Monk] order he knew, and Merr snorted.
“That’s from that guy with the Stargnoll. Nice try. They’re the Monks of Abrein or something like that. Hand-to-hand monsters. Galam uses staffs, and Sottheim uses weapons too. She sends us news now and then. Well, it’s always some fussy [Monk] who wanders towards us for a month and delivers a bunch of Yellats they grew and letters. It’s helped her work on her, y’know…”
“Body? Class?”
“Trauma. The rest too, but they actually found [Thought Healers] for her. Hah! Imagine getting help for being made a [Slave]!”
They laughed about that for a second. Then Pisces sighed.
“I’m glad. I hope we can meet.”
“Don’t worry, Bearig sent news the moment you landed. She’s just far off. We’ll see her. Maybe not right away. But you’re not gonna go until you see her, right?”
“Of course not.”
Merr leaned over the saddle and smiled.
“The Monks of Abrein didn’t take a Vow of Not Seeing Shit, as far as I remember. She might have already seen all of this. So how about we give her something to remember, eh?”
The [Necromancer] smiled. Then he made a fist and extended it. He bumped fists with the female Pisces, who grinned as she drew a scimitar. They both wound a roll of cloth around their faces because the wind was blowing.
A storm was billowing upwards around the sand as [Riders] on horseback whooped…then they were going over the dune. And the storm—it raced behind them, threatening to overtake the first riders.
Before that, the [Slavers] manning the waystation got a good look at him.
Pisces Jealnet. The Scourge of Roshal was riding, swords raised.
All…nineteen of him. They pointed as the civilians waiting to see him raised their scrying devices and froze, uncertain.
He was coming. How did you know which…?
The first [Deathbolt] took a sentry out of one of the watchtowers. Then the storm was blowing over the [Riders], giving them cover as voices rose into screams, and the storm howled. But before that—
A glowing comet flashed over the oasis. Motes of color falling, and the [Slavers] screamed as they tried to bar the gates.
 
[Spell – Illusory Comet Learned!]
 
——
 
One last person saw the Bane of Roshal belatedly. But it took him time to punch through the mana-drain effect across the New Lands, and he hadn’t been paying attention.
Az’kerash was busy. Not entirely content; he was discovering too many flaws in his Chosen for his complete satisfaction. But they were levelling, and his accumulation of the newest resource he’d discovered would advance his attempt at forming a true army of undeath. There were limits to any [Necromancer], constraints based on how many bodies you had, your magical acumen…
This would solve at least one problem.
The only reason he checked the news was to keep up-to-date on magical innovations. The duel between Archmages had been very, very important, for example.
Automated magic. He required that. It would necessitate him waiting for the magic to spread, then capturing a spellbook or a caster. Of such things did the Necromancer of Terandria plan.
He would have ignored the news of the day except for the fact that two dozen spells kept alerting him to the Pisces Jealnet story.
“Troublesome.”
The Necromancer realized that this was a flaw from when he had been overly sentimental. When he had allowed his Human self free reign, before he had corrected his personality. Perril Chandler had been…overly obsessed with the young man he had seen himself in.
Az’kerash saw nothing to love in the image of Pisces. He was one [Necromancer] who knew Az’kerash’s identity. Trustworthy in that he had not revealed it, but a Level 30 [Necromancer] was useless.
…Level 40?
Hm. As useful as the Goblin Lord experiment had been, then. Far from optimal, and currently in…Chandrar? Part of Az’kerash’s mind found this interesting, but only mildly so. The Necromancer did not care as he sorted through a hundred different images of the adventurer, except to note that a [Necromancer] attaining such fame had not occurred since he had been alive.
He imagined it would hurt another man’s heart with some…emotion. He felt nothing as he dismissed the backlog of data. Useless, trivial, a waste of his t—
Then he stared at something and halted the playback. Conjured the image into the space in front of him.
“Master?”
The mines were dark. And deep. They were digging for treasure…Az’kerash whispered.
“Are those…invisible Skeleton Champions?”
He had a lot of recordings of Pisces. Not just what Wistram had broadcast. A while ago, Perril Chandler had realized that Pisces’ anti-scrying spells meant he would miss most of what the Horns did again. So he’d developed a custom-spell specifically tuned to Pisces’ personal enchantments. He’d wasted about seventeen days straight on it.
That was how Az’kerash saw one of Pisces’ raids on the [Slaver] caravans. He cared nothing for [Slavers], of course. Everything would die. But that spellcasting…
“Four concurrent [Invisibility] spells plus a self-spell on a caster. They keep reappearing…the Skeleton Champions are amply armored.”
Decent. They’d be a mainstay in his army, though he’d make Skeleton Knights, who were better-armored. But…Az’kerash isolated other images.
He came across the Bone Horror that Pisces had made and began to dismiss it.
“Ineffective design. Capable of only raking attacks and a multi-headed yawning bite…wait. The legs. Hmm. Designed to instill fear in equine species.”
There was a book which he recalled, belatedly, giving Pisces about optimal bone configuration to instill fear in other species. The familiarity of certain patterns while diverging provoked an instinctual terror-based response.
And the Bone Horror was quick. Az’kerash watched another image and saw the [Necromancer] charging up a ramp of bone to fire the laser-guided [Deathbolt] at…
“Ijvani. Do you use any targeting spells or Skills for your magic?”
“…Ijvani is dead, Master.”
After a moment, Az’kerash turned his head, and that hurt him. He paused, then nodded at another of the Chosen.
“Yes. What of you?”
The new mage of his Chosen bowed her head, or tried to. But she was not as humanoid as Ijvani had been. Far more mobile. She…skittered as she replied.
“My aim has sometimes suffered, Master. I have cast [Homing Spell], but that requires…”
“Try this.”
He demonstrated the concept and watched as the Chosen replicated it after some effort. Strange. He didn’t use the technique at all; there were other ways to correct a spell. But then Az’kerash stood there, watching for a while.
A [Necromancer] who scythed down the living like the chaff they were, then raised a horde. Az’kerash whispered as he gazed at the scrying spell.
“Yes. Yes…you do understand. Perhaps he was right in this.”
He smiled as he saw the young [Necromancer] riding on that steed of undeath. Then developed a puzzled expression and felt at his own lips. Az’kerash touched his chest.
“—Nothing. It is a logical conclusion to celebrate an ally.”
That was all. Reassured, he turned and saw Devail studying the image of Pisces. Another duelist with a rapier. Devail spoke.
“Master. Is he one to learn from?”
“He is not as proficient with the blade. Nor does he have your advantages, Devail. He is not a Gold-bell duelist, the enemy you aspire to surpass in all ways.”
Az’kerash nodded at Pisces, whose swordplay he could critique, even if that had always been the realm of Perril Chandler. He turned away, interest satisfied, and Devail murmured.
“His bell is beautiful.”
“You will take a better one, Devail.”
“Yes, Master. But you did not answer my question.”
Az’kerash regarded Devail blankly before he glanced at Pisces.
“He does not know the next step. Any foe above Level 50 will destroy him, and he has no offensive might. He is no Named-rank adventurer.”
“Yes, Master. But could he be?”
Az’kerash opened his mouth and stared at Pisces. Then he closed it and went back to digging. In the silence, Devail sat and watched the scrying spell that Az’kerash had left open.
 
——
 
Nineteen Pisces Jealnets came through the gate of the Waystation Zigot, each one armed with a blade. Some with rapiers, others with daggers—each swinging like madmen.
They tore through the [Slavers] so fast that they were fleeing street-by-street as the furious Scourges advanced. Blood spattering the ground, screaming [Slavers] pleading for mercy.
At this point, a ‘censored for viewer discretion’ image played over the recording, and Sir Relz sat back in his chair.
“Ladies, gentlemen, this is Sir Relz from Channel 1 News, joined by Noass.”
The two nodded at each other as Sir Relz sat behind the desk, and Noass, the disgraced [News Anchor] who’d won his way back to prominence, chinked mugs with Relz. They both said ‘#1 News’ on them.
The boys were back together. The dream team commentators. And what a topical piece but…Relz spoke to the cameras.
“A lot has been said on the Pisces Jealnet story. Roshal has issued a retraction of the video, of course—”
“Highly upsetting, Sir Relz; did you see it?”
“Not fully, Noass. Did you?”
The Drake rubbed at his face.
“Yes, and I’d love to have a memory-erasing potion. Does Saliss of Lights or Xif make them?”
Relz shuffled his papers carefully.
“Indeed, well, I have it from a spokesperson of Roshal that it was not sanctioned by the city, but the actions of a private individual—and we have heard copious condemnations by world powers. They’re still coming in. I believe our newsbanner is listing them?”
Both Drakes nodded, and Sir Relz went on.
“Nevertheless, the question arises…if that is Adventurer Pisces, and there are certainly a lot of questions given how many attacked this waystation…is it an ethical matter? The Adventurer’s Guild has taken his side, as has public sentiment in places, but we’ve had callers decrying his actions. Chandrarians don’t feel safe! While our esteemed colleague in Channel 2 begs to differ, I think she’s rather biased.”
An image of Drassi popped up, mid-coverage, and the two Drakes chuckled…until Drassi’s head rotated.
“—and I was s—I heard that.”
She leaned out of her frame and stared down at them.
“Well, well, well. Looks like I get to enact violence today after all. You two badmouthing Pisces? Where’s my brick? I’m gonna—”
They cut the image of her, and Noass adjusted his tweed vest; Sir Relz had on a suit and his monocle today, yellow and fire-red respectively.
“Terrifying how she does that. That’s levels for you, eh, Sir Relz?”
“Indeed, Noass, and if we are disturbed, rest assured we’ll try to be professional. Again, unlike some [Journalists]—”
The staff in the background were already preparing for an interruption, barricading the doors. Again, the Drakes chinked mugs, and Sir Relz leaned forwards.
“Candidly, Noass, I’m troubled by all this. Roshal has not, ah, covered itself in glory. They’ve made a rather strong argument for why they’re under attack.”
Noass nodded.
“Hard to ignore the fact that Adventurer Pisces was illegally taken as a [Slave]—I feel comfortable enough saying that!”
“Risky, Noass, risky; there’s been no adjudication. I think the Arbiter Queen wishes to litigate the matter, but some people have suggested she’s biased from her relationship with Adventurer Pisces…I digress.”
Relz steepled his claws together. Glanced meaningfully at the audience.
“Roshal has some individuals of truly deplorable action and morality. This is undeniable. However, I would hesitate to paint any one nation with a brush of one color, wouldn’t you, Noass?”
Noass frowned. He opened his mouth, peered at Pisces, then tilted his head slightly.
“I’m not sure I’m following, Sir Relz. Do you mean some of these [Slavers] aren’t the ones who took Adventurer Pisces hostage? Because yes, of course.”
“Absolutely. But I want to be more broad than even that. What I mean is…”
Sir Relz smoothed his neck spines and sighed.
“It’s a different culture, one that I don’t ascribe to, Noass, and the same could be said of most Pallassians, I assume. At the same time, I’ve met individuals from Chandrar and shared a cordial meal or conversation together. I didn’t press them on whether they owned [Slaves], and I found most quite agreeable. Some not, like any section of people. I’m just asking if this anti-[Slaver] rhetoric is alienating an entire continent’s worth of people.”
“Hmm. But not everyone in Chandrar are fans of [Slavers], Sir Relz. We had plenty of callers who were fans of Pisces’ alleged actions, even from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He’s something of an icon.”
Sir Relz frowned at this and glanced at the doors where a certain loud voice was being raised, and a few members of staff appeared worried.
“Ah, that’s our unwanted guest. What I mean, though, Noass, is that this is a cultural issue, clearly. It’s a vast world, and if we all had the same beliefs and values, it would be mighty boring, wouldn’t it? Should we, from our literal armchairs, condemn this practice we have no context for?”
He frowned at Noass, and the other Drake sat back in his seat. Thinking with an equally troubled frown. Sir Relz took a long sip from his cup of purified water.
“I think we should perhaps wait to pass criticism or excuse a lot of deaths as acceptable, don’t you, Noass? Let alone condemning one of Chandrar’s biggest, if not the biggest, economies.”
He smiled at his friend as he sat back in his chair, and Noass adjusted his own positioning on the custom Drake seat designed not to let your neck spines catch on the back. He stared at Relz, then glanced at the cameras, then leaned forwards.
“—No, I think we’re above that, Sir Relz. Slavery, I mean. I don’t need to try it to know I object morally to it. And I’d say you’re above defending that like a coward.”
Sir Relz’s smile halted with his cup, raised halfway to his lips. The two Drakes eyed each other in dead silence as the cameras kept rolling.
 
——
 
“Let me in! I’m gonna rip both their tails off! Listen, I want you to screen me from the rest of the staff while I have it out with them—”
Drassi was prepared for a fight. Channel 1 and Channel 2 staff were pushing at each other in the hallways. Even with separate studios, the two fought so often that there were guards, but she was high-level, and she had a brick she kept in her desk she was inserting into a sock just for this purpose.
Her best [Reporters] and [Journalists] were ready to go, and Drassi finally caught sight of the desk where Channel 1 was broadcasting from. She saw Noass, Sir Relz, drew a breath to shout—
Then saw the two Drakes were sitting up in their chairs, hurling objects at each other. Noass clocked Sir Relz with his mug before the other Drake threw his monocle, his clipboard, then his chair—
Drassi halted, mid-shout, and gaped as the two Drakes kept throwing things. She backed up a step. Closed the doors as the Channel 1 news team turned. Then she went back to her desk.
“Er, sorry about that folks. Where was I?”
 
——
 
Ten minutes of peak entertainment later, Noass was gone. Sir Relz had a black eye and was missing his monocle. His neck spines, which had been combed down to look like hair, were askew, but he was pretending all was well.
“Apologies for that, gentlemen, ladies. Now I, ah, I think we’ll take a small intermission to restore order…we’re going now to Padurn Jealnet to comment on this entire issue with his son. Fencer Padurn? Your thoughts?”
He was prepared to duck out of frame and simply let the Human talk—and resume his shouting match—when Padurn Jealnet appeared on the scrying orb.
People began instantly trying to change channel. He had Wistram’s first negative ratings score for a guest on television. But since he was topical, they all waited a moment to hear something stupid.
Padurn Jealnet was staring at a scrying orb clearly showing the image of the raid on the waystation. His face was pinched. Nostrils flaring. Eyes wide with disapproval.
“Sir, this appears to be an attack on the [Slavers] of Roshal in broad daylight with your son’s face. Would you call this a lawless act, assuming it was your son?”
Sir Relz gave the man an intro, and Padurn snapped instantly. Too damn fast, like the [Fencer] he was. Relz cursed as he found a comb…
“I would. This is murder, an assault on a foreign nation.”
“If it were your son, then, would you condemn it?”
Padurn appeared confused by the question. Then he focused on the scrying orb. He lifted it closer to the camera, and it was frozen on a shot of the nineteen Pisceses attacking the [Slaver]. He pointed to one of them in the lower-left corner, with a rapier, one of six.
“Yes. I would and do. That’s him. The others are wearing disguises, but half have breasts…Stitch-folk. This is Pisces. I am sure of it.”
He peered around. Sir Relz, the camera team in Ailendamus interviewing him, everyone had frozen. Padurn raised one eyebrow.
“Was this in doubt? I can testify to law enforcement if—”
His next words were cut off, because at this moment, Princess Ozena of Ailendamus tried to execute a flying knee to Padurn’s face.
Which he dodged. The broadcast cut off and Sir Relz was left there with his comb tangled in his neck spines a second before Drassi nearly pulled herself through the screen to scream at him.
But that was the news, eh?
Who said it had no consequences.
 
——
 
That was the final raid that Pisces and Merr participated in. Not just because a [Message] came from Nerrhavia’s Fallen within ten minutes of Padurn’s broadcast going out.
No…
He stood on the ground, avoiding the red sand, and there was the familiar death magic in the air. But it felt wrong to him. He didn’t take the power. Didn’t animate any of the bodies.
He told death to let them rest. Merr finished kneeling by the body. She put it next to the head sitting on the pile of rocks. But she didn’t bury Casep. Just stripped her of her armor, her blades, her bag of holding, and turned.
“We’ll pour a drink for her later. Dustbandits, get ready to move.”
“Casep…”
Scarlips kept staring at the head of the woman sitting on the pile of rocks. Blood hadn’t stained the stones. She had already been dead when someone removed her head.
A message. The other [Dustbandits] were all dead too. Pisces peered around. He’d known some of them, like the one called Chimes…but Casep had been the one he’d known well.
All dead.
The [Slaves]…they’d been meant to check in after dropping them off. But they’d never reported in, so Merr had sent someone to look for them, and the cell of [Rebels] here. They’d found this.
“It’s a slaughter inside, boss. They’re all dead. Or…”
Merr looked up as a grim [Bandit] emerged from the hidden cave along the rocky pass. It was remote, and unless you knew to look, you’d just assume no one lived here. Let alone find the hidden entrance. How had they discovered Casep? Had she been tailed or…?
“No bodies of [Slavers]? No [Slaves]?”
“No, boss. So they were re-captured or…”
Disposed of somewhere else. Merr spat and wiped her mouth.
“We don’t know how many Casep took out, then. Damnit. She knew to cut her losses and ride, and they were on horseback. Was the cell dead and they were just waitin’ here…?”
She shook herself. Seemed to come awake.
“We can’t waste time speculating. We’re in danger. Ride.”
They were on their horses, and Pisces glanced back at the dead Dustbandits.
“Should we—”
“They’re not our comrades. Just cloth and flesh and bone. Ride!”
He kept peeking back at the woman’s head. Casep’s face gave nothing away. Her teeth were bared in a death-rictus, grim, as if she saw her death coming. He wished he knew how to ask her…
I’m not high-level enough. If only I could do that, like Numbtongue. What a poor [Necromancer] I am. He whispered, and Merr turned her head.
“Let ‘em lie, Pisces. Just…”
“I will. I’m making sure they don’t rise.”
She eyed him, then dipped her head.
“Thanks.”
 
——
 
They drank for Casep and the others. It was such a bitter taste on Pisces’ tongue this time, worse than the last. The hardest part of all was no one having words for him.
“It could have happened to anyone. I blame the Ringer or—fuck. Whatever that bastard’s called!”
Merr punched a rock where they were camped. She strode off. Pisces would have gone after her. To…apologize?
I wanted this. I knew what I was doing, and her people are paying the price. The Dustbandits watched him, and he spoke.
“I am sorry. I wanted it to be only upon me. Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I. The Drakes sing that. I…I wish it worked that way.”
Scarlips spoke after a long moment.
“She was laughin’ at you before she left. That’s worth a lot to [Bandits]. Could have been something else entirely. There’s nothing to say, Pisces, unless you want to go for a tumble. Reckon that’d cheer someone up.”
He just studied her.
“Even after I’ve killed so many of you?”
Scarlips grinned, then, with a [Bandit]’s cold mirth.
“We’re all dead women when a nation catches us. A poisonous flower smells sweetest of all, kid. [Bandits] die chasing dreams. Go on, then. Just ask yourself how far you want to lead the boss. Where she goes, we go.”
In that moment, they sounded like Pisces’ team, and that hurt, because he missed them. And he realized Merr really did have a—a crew.
How far would he ask her to go? He thought about that. Pisces was glad to have the choice taken out of his hands. Because he received a [Message] spell that blared into his mind, ending his journey.
 
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Etrikah: Pisces Jealnet, by order of Her Majesty, Queen Yisame Beziin, Ruler of the Freed Cloths of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you are to refrain from any action against the Nation of Roshal, the Slavers of Lailight Scintillation, the Slaver’s Guild, their property or associates thereof at once.
Any actions unprovoked will incur the full wrath of the Crown and its servants. You will furthermore cooperate with the agents of the Crown sent to retrieve you.
 
When he broke the news to Merr, she just exhaled.
“That’s that. Your father gave her no way out. It’s politics. I sort of get it; Revine’s like that too. She can lie and pretend she don’t know until someone calls it to her face.”
She was more understanding than he’d thought. When Pisces began to apologize, she changed subjects.
“Guess we’ll make sure you’re heading back then…scarper. Some piece of work, your old man, huh? Mine just abandoned me.”
“He’s…managed to become a problem despite how far I’ve gone.”
Pisces muttered, and Merr nodded.
“If he ever vacations in Chandrar, I’ll ensure a camel shits in whatever he eats. Bandit’s promise.”
They said nothing, and she turned.
“I know it’s weird of me to defend her, but…that [Queen] really was letting you go wild. Hand’s tied, though.”
He nodded. It was kind of Yisame. He knew how much trouble he’d caused. It was just…
Over.
 
——
 
The Dustbandits were aware a scrying spell had located them, but they just rode Pisces down the main road. People stared, yet Merr was speaking to him.
“Shame Bearig and the others didn’t make it, but they had to be careful. Don’t worry about us.”
“What if the Ringer or…”
He was worried for her, but she smiled tensely.
“The first thing we’re gonna do is ride, Pisces. It’s hard to catch pure speed, and believe me, no one’s going to figure out where we’re going with my Skills. I might be out of range for a good damn while, but…hey, you gave them a bloody nose.”
Barely that. Suddenly, the caravans he’d destroyed, all the fighting, felt hollow against such a vast and sprawling organization. It really had just been for his own ego. It hadn’t saved the person he’d meant it to.
Just bought her a few days at most. Pisces hung his head, but Merr embraced him with one arm as a fast-moving carriage shot down the road towards them.
“Wonder who they sent. Listen, I’m glad to do that. It meant something to the ones we saved. And you haven’t changed. Well, you have, but only in good ways. Cawe, she’d be proud.”
He gazed at her and hugged her impulsively. Pisces usually didn’t squeeze anyone in a hug, but he gripped her tightly.
“Merr…”
“Hey, c’mon, your team’s out there. I’m just the [Bandit Lady].”
“I wish you were with us.”
That one comment made Merr’s face twist up. She hesitated, glanced at Scarlips, and then gently patted him on the shoulders.
“Nah. You just feel that way because I’ve been on my best behavior. Go on.”
He backed up a step, but his eyes were on her as the carriage doors opened. The Dustbandits muttered.
“Back it up, those’re adventurers…”
“Fuck, royal escort. There’s a [Prince] there. Not the adventurer—”
Shouts; the carriage must have had a royal escort like last time. The Dustbandits were riding, but Pisces whispered.
“I have a message from Cawe.”
But he only thought he’d had courage to share it when they were together. Merr’s eyes widened, and she searched his face, then gripped his arm.
“Then share it when we’re pouring out one—together. I ain’t playing messenger with that. This isn’t over, Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Dustbandits—ride!”
She turned her horse and began galloping. Pisces almost smiled; she sounded like some storybook villain for a second. His eyes never left her as she rode into the storm. Then he didn’t turn his head as a haughty voice spoke.
“Filthy [Bandits]. That one was pretending at being Silk. Ah, Bane of Roshal! You live up to your name! I am Prince Weith of House Dabrei, and with me is Princess Lithic, Prince Yosoc—we are here, by will of the [Queen], to escort you back to Tyrant’s Rest. I have been interested in meeting you.”
“Hello, charmed. Do forgive me, I’m still longing for the blood of enemies. Some call me the Scourge of Roshal, but it’s actually the Bane of Roshal. The truth is I’d rather just murder every [Slaver] in Chandrar.”
Pisces muttered without turning his head away from Merr. Prince Weith laughed, a touch uncertain.
“A-ha! Haha! Well, I can see your dandruff is up. Humans, so fascinating. Come, come, I’m sure once we wash the blood off—eugh, he does smell of it. And to ride in such company…perhaps a break in the city? We’ve even brought a fellow Gold-rank team to avoid unpleasantries—not that we needed them!”
More laughter and agreement from the royal escort. Pisces assumed murdering them got you in a lot of trouble. He thought of the [Prince] that Yvlon had threatened to kill…three was probably enough to get him a super-speedy execution.
Back to Tyrant’s Rest. I can do no more. The heavy logic fell on him as he turned…but something clicked in his head.
The team sent to…?
A suspicion crossed his mind a moment before figures left the carriage from the other doors, avoiding the royal escort of three royals and their numerous bodyguards. Pisces blinked—and saw a hesitant hand wave at him.
Captain Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina, the members of Wildcard, were eying Pisces like he was a stranger. They arrayed themselves, almost like they were expecting him to fight.
Prince Weith was like a shorter, less dangerous version of Zenol, though he clearly fancied he was just as good a warrior. He might be, if all the artifacts on his body did the fighting for him. His bodyguard had a more realistic expectation of how a fight with Pisces might go and were tensed, hands hovering near their blades.
But Pisces just focused on Wildcard, not the other two royals. He nodded at Lareceina, who inspected him as she flicked a glowing marble of magic up and down. She shrugged at him, and he tried to smile.
 
——
 
Wildcard being the team sent to grab him made it all a tiny bit better. Captain Leo was up front as he shook Pisces’ hand—after all the royals had done so first.
“We’re being paid to bring you back to Tyrant’s Rest, Pisces. No fuss.”
Sorry. Kusal mouthed, but Pisces got it. Lareceina was far more direct.
“Your actions against Roshal—or at least, this last, confirmed action after so much uncertainty—has set the Court of Silks on its head. As a lawful adventurer, I condemn your attacks on Roshal, Adventurer Pisces. I trust you won’t cause any trouble?”
He almost smiled at her, but managed to turn it into a surly grunt. Prince Weith forced a laugh.
“Ha-ha! Enough baiting the Scourge. Adventurer Pisces, you needn’t ride with this Gold-rank team. They’re competent enough, but less entertaining than you. I did not come all this way to listen to adventurers argue.”
It was a bit weird. It became clear that the two [Princes] and [Princess] weren’t actually part of Yisame’s escort. Or to be more accurate, they’d added themselves to her authority, but they were a power in themselves.
“Your Highnesses, we could depart at once if—”
“No. The Scourge smells a bit poignant, and my legs hurt from the ride. We shall have some time in the city, then leave.”
Leonardo shot a look at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] realized there was a great irony about to occur. By ‘the city’, Prince Weith meant the closest one. Princess Lithic glanced at Pisces with great interest and leaned over.
“It should be amusing. They were quite scared of you, Scourge.”
That was how he found himself rolling back into the city of Halqued, which went silent as he passed by. The carriage door was open to let Pisces see the people and vice versa—because they had insisted. The royals laughed like it was some huge game, and to them, it was.
“Sorry, Pisces. They forced themselves into the trip, and they can sort of do what they want so long as they don’t go directly against Queen Yisame. Offending them would be really bad.”
Leo whispered to Pisces as Prince Yosoc lifted a hand and got an instant wave of applause and cheering, unprompted. Pisces was reminded of his conversation with Yvlon about commonfolk…
He just sat there, hoping not to see that girl in the crowd. And wanting to find her.
Lleta.
Had she been sold despite everything…? He barely paid attention to the gossip in court. Only one thing caught his ear.
“Yvlon’s not been seen?”
“Oh, an hour or two. But she vanished, and no one’s seen her since. Resting?”
Weith spoke airily, but for a moment, his expression became calculating. Princess Lithic flicked a hand-fan out and cooled the entire carriage in a moment.
“If she is taken ill, perhaps she might only have an ‘hour or two’ for quite some time. Months, perhaps. A year or more, I have heard.”
Pisces stared at her as she chuckled, and Prince Yosoc appeared mildly apprehensive; he sat furthest from Pisces in the carriage, behind Wildcard. The [Necromancer] spoke softly.
“You mean if she’s magically ill.”
Lithic’s fan didn’t waver as it idly moved back and forth.
“Did I say that, Adventurer? My, you Izrilians are direct.”
“I get it from the Silver Killer. So we’re departing?”
“In a moment, in a moment. I should rather like to hear of your ride across this region. How many [Slavers] did you kill? Not that I approve.”
Prince Weith was excited until Pisces replied calmly.
“What ride, Your Highness? I killed no one. I was simply lost until Her Majesty sent me that [Message].”
“Even if I didn’t have [Detect Truth] spells, I would call that a lie, sir. I shan’t spill secrets, my royal word on it! We must socialize—after some food. Refreshments? But first, a bath.”
Pisces realized he did sort of stink of sweat and blood and corpse. Everyone else was sitting as far as possible from him, and he sighed.
“I could cast [Cleanse].”
“What, like some barbarous [Mage]? We shall have a bath drawn up and repast, then ride back in the night. Drinks, yes! Yosoc?”
“I wouldn’t mind refreshments with the Scourge. ‘Twould be a tale.”
Yosoc, Lithic, and Weith were here to soak up the fame. Wildcard tried not to visibly sigh, and Kusal mimed putting two fingers to his temples when no one was watching. Pisces said nothing; this was the least of what he’d known was coming.
Humor them. He was no Yvlon. He just kept staring out onto the street. Being here…he wished they’d taken him to any other city. Any other one.
 
——
 
The irony of ironies was that the very same mansion he’d first stayed at with the Horns had been re-opened to his company. Pisces took a bath and watched the water turn interesting colors. He scrubbed with all the soaps until whatever pungency he had was probably gone, or at least, less pressing.
He would have taken as much time as he dared, but he’d rather leave, so he scrubbed fast. Unfortunately…not fast enough.
“Adventurer Pisces? It’s Lareceina. Do you have a moment?”
He paused in toweling himself.
“I’m not clothed.”
“Okay.”
She thrust the door open, and he promptly turned invisible. She squinted.
“I can sort of see you there. The magic makes you visible, but it’s not as obvious as I thought…can you hold that spell?”
“Please leave.”
She closed the door and cast a spell that made his ears pop instead. Pisces frowned as she turned. Then she spoke.
“Purely between us adventurers…I went to the Slaver’s Guild just now. They were quite worried about you and relieved we were taking you away. No one has entered or left Halqued since you began your attacks.”
“Speaking as adventurers, I believe you’re mistaken about who did what. I was attending weddings.”
Her lips quirked.
“Yes, quite. I did ask, and no [Slaves] have left the city.”
His heart leapt in his chest. Right before Lareceina stared down at her fingers and twiddled her thumbs.
“However, there’s no Drake girl in their rosters. I was in the market for a [Slave]. She appears to have been sold to a [Slave Trainer] who raises prospective [Slaves] in the city.”
Pisces re-appeared, and Lareceina jumped; he was not where she thought he was. His robes were mostly on, and he stood there, adjusting them.
“I see.”
“I just wanted you to know.”
She peered at him, face very deliberately blank, and he ruffled his wet hair. Pisces avoided her eyes.
“I wish you hadn’t told me that.”
“I’m sorry. I thought you’d want to know. I was wrong, then.”
After a second, Lareceina ducked her head, and Pisces turned away.
“No—I appreciate you checking. Thank you.”
 
——
 
Perhaps the royals realized Pisces was not in the mood for sociability when he emerged from the bathroom, because they traded a look as he came downstairs.
“Do you wear the same clothing, Scourge?”
“I think this is clean enough…yes. Should I change?”
Weith sniffed the air and shrugged.
“It doesn’t reek, and it fits. Just a strange life to wear the same clothing day in, day out. Ah, adventurers. Where to, then?”
“A restaurant? We could set out for Tyrant’s Rest if you wanted.”
There were enough refreshments on the table to have fed everyone, but the two [Princes] and [Princess] scoffed instantly.
“Without repast and conversation? Unthinkable! Come, take your pick of the city. The finest restaurants…or perhaps another establishment? Say the word and we shall attend it together.”
Ah, so they wanted to be seen in public with the Scourge of Roshal. Kusal rolled his eyes and, unfortunately, made the mistake of many people. Because the Nerrhavia’s Fallen royals might be haughty and powerful, but it didn’t mean they were stupid.
Prince Weith’s brows snapped together.
“You shall not attend, adventurer.”
“Your Highness, I apologize for Kusal, but we are hired to escort Pisces back to Tyrant’s Rest—”
Leonardo intervened with a strained smile, but Prince Weith’s hand stole to his side, where he carried a curved shortsword.
“Are you implying my [Bodyguards] or myself need your help, adventurer? You are only here by courtesy to our cousin, Queen Yisame!”
“I—did not imply that at all, sire.”
“Good, then I take little offense. You both may stay behind. And the [Mage] if she has a comment?”
Wildcard’s two members bristled, and Lareceina bowed.
“I would defer to whatever His Highness wishes, Prince Weith.”
He relaxed a bit.
“Good. Then I permit your presence, since some concessions to a Gold-rank team must be made. Now, Adventurer Pisces, where to?”
He clicked his fingers, and servants brought a map of the city with every notable eatery circled. Pisces stared at the valuable map being defaced in bright red ink. He eyed Lareceina out of the corner of his eye.
Definitely good Yvlon wasn’t here. At the same time, he wished she were so Weith could speak to her like he’d just done to Leo.
Maybe the Yvlon method was truly egalitarian and ahead of its time and Pisces hadn’t realized it. He really did miss her. Ceria and Colth too, but Yvlon would have gotten a lot of this. She would have liked Merr, Pisces bet.
Since it was Pisces the Sniffmaster of Dead Slavers and not the Silver Killer, he tried to be a bit more…accommodating. Charming. Even if he felt like repeatedly kicking Prince Weith in the groin until the man had to change genitals.
He still felt like doing violence. More than before, actually.
Not good, not at all. Pisces thought as he studied the map. His eyes narrowed.
“What would be appropriate for members of your station, Your Highnesses? I’m afraid I haven’t been in Nerrhavia’s Fallen long enough to know.”
That pleased them, and Princess Lithic clicked her fingers.
“A good answer. You are more capable than the Killer. As I knew. Naturally, a restaurant doesn’t suit us.”
“Naturally.”
“A Midnight’s Society of some kind is far more appropriate given our ages.”
Pisces had no idea what that was, and Princess Lithic frowned, perplexed.
“Do they have none in Izril? Ah, perhaps they come by another term. An Open Lodge? A Nightspot?”
There was a mutter from Leo.
“Oh, a nightclub.”
“Ugh, what a terrible name. Is that some kind of weapon a [Blackguard] might use? What we are referring to is an establishment that caters to those of a younger age who wish to move about, dance, and have time for both music and socialization and food!”
“And who can do more than one at a time.”
Yosoc murmured, and they laughed. Pisces had an image of Wishdrinks—which he assumed pretty much fit the bill. Drinks and a more casual atmosphere, though he doubted the royals were going to be as casual as Selys and her friends.
Even so, he understood. From the way Weith smiled and shifted, there was more to this than mere games. The [Prince] added after a moment.
“The nightspot might have [Slaves], and it shall have entertainment, collared or not. I trust the Scourge can hold back his bloody nature with us?”
It was not really a question, but perhaps the [Prince] wanted to see Pisces lose it. The [Necromancer] reminded himself to not Yvlon instantly. He smiled at Weith.
“We’ll see, Your Highness.”
For a second, Weith appeared uncertain before throwing his head back and laughing uproariously. When no one but his bodyguards joined in, he scowled.
“Well, if you have a preference, state it. Otherwise, we’ll choose the best of…eugh.”
He ran his eyes down another list of nightclubs in the city. Clearly, it was below any standard he held, but Pisces just blinked at the list and had a thought.
“Do you have another list I could read?”
Rather to their surprise, he conferred with a servant who nervously found a little directory with a Skill, and Pisces checked it and then the list of popular establishments. He found a name he recognized, confirmed it was right, and pointed to it.
Mystified, Prince Weith read the name.
“The Djinni’s Hour? Whatever suits your fancy, Scourge. There’s naught remarkable about it.”
“Call it the name. I’ve run into two Djinni, now, who’ve wanted to kill me.”
That drew their attention at once, and they began asking about the encounter with Seemutor that they somehow knew about. Their escorts moved ahead, clearing the road and demanding service at this place they definitely didn’t have reservations for.
When Captain Leo and Kusal went to join them, they were reminded they’d stay here. Leo threw up his hands.
“Lareceina, call us if you need a hand with—anything.”
“We are perfectly capable by ourselves, Captain!”
Weith shot back, and Leo glanced at Pisces. He nodded after a moment.
“Of course you are, sire. Have fun.”
 
——
 
Pisces had never been to The Djinni’s Hour, and it was somewhat decrepit on the outside. A very old building laid on stone so ancient it had clearly been rebuilt ages ago. Most cities tended to go like that, buildings staying up until they were condemned and a new one being made on the rubble of the first.
Nor was it that fancy—by royal standards. Pisces blinked into the room filled with magical light spells to give it a dimmer atmosphere shot through by bright illumination spells for the stage where performers would dance or sing—there was even a haze in the air like a Djinni’s body.
It was roughly semicircular with an area to dance on the left side and more tables and booths on the right, the stage being in the center and back. The kitchens were equipped for any meals you could want, though a bar seemed to be the real draw for people.
The instant the royals entered, conversation stopped, and they were announced—loudly. There was bowing, applause, and they were given a booth in the center of the room where Pisces was sat.
In view of everyone else. But rather than shoo everyone away, the younger Stitch-folk were allowed to come by. Well, the Silks—the Cottons were instantly thrust backwards. The Hemp serving staff, if there were any, also vanished.
No one but the finest cloths to join the royals, who were a step above Silk. They wanted the attention, but didn’t want the company.
By now, Pisces had formulated a few hypotheses about what the royals wanted from him and how this conversation might go. His simplest guess was that they were simply bored and wanted him to entertain them.
However, they might also be trying to use him or feel him out for their games in court. Another possibility was that they wanted to get him riled up to humiliate Yisame or endanger her—or they just wanted the prestige of saying they had met the Scourge and hung out with him after his rampage.
Pisces didn’t really care, only developed a few plans about how to deal with problems. He didn’t want to be here.
This nightclub or nightspot might have been fun if he were in Liscor, with friends. Not with strangers. Lareceina was the only person whose company he even tolerated, but she was playing up the ‘I am against killing [Slavers] card’.
There was a pop song playing in the background, too, not so loud they were deafened, but loud. Only a silencing spell on the booth made it possible to talk coherently, and Pisces saw [Dancers] performing on stage.
Stitch-women and Stitch-men with not a lot on doing quite provocative things with bright bits of cloth. Some had collars and chains.
Prince Yosoc started staring and only stopped when Prince Weith lifted a hand.
“Bah, too carnal for my tastes. Other performers, now.”
He clapped his hands, and the [Dancers] instantly left the stage. No one objected, and he leaned forwards. The Silk audience and royals were all intent on Pisces.
“Unless you came here for such things. There are more refined places, even for youth.”
“This will do, Prince Weith. Are you hungry?”
Pisces had been reading a menu, and he was hungry-ish. Not really, but he knew his body needed it. He ordered a burger and wondered if it would be like Erin’s. Funny it had come all this way…it was listed under ‘New Foods’.
Weith waved a hand.
“Hm? No, I’m full.”
Pisces nearly cracked the lacquered menu of wood in half. Princess Lithic laughed.
“Drinks, then! Let’s have a round of Firebreath Whiskey in honor of our Izrilian adventurer. Then something actually palatable. Djinni’s Tears.”
Pisces checked the bottles, and there was a high markup on the cheap Drake drink—but that was nothing compared to one of the most pricey bottles on the menu. From the way Lareceina winced, she was aware this was a hundred-gold bottle coming around.
“Gah, it burns!”
Weith almost spat out his Firebreath Whiskey drink, and Pisces pretended to take a shot, grimacing, then went to water. Same with the Djinni’s Tears.
Only Prince Yosoc even got the Firebreath Whiskey down; Princess Lithic coughed, and Lareceina pretended to spill her cup.
“Drake swill, eh? Now…let us talk, Pisces. I give you leave to use my name without titles. The same for you, uh, Lareceina. I know you have met Prince Zenol abroad, and we cannot be less sociable than he, eh? Especially not for such a famous adventurer.”
“Am I so famous at the moment, Prince Weith?”
“At this moment? You might be more famous than Torreb. I have said his name to travellers from other continents, and they have not known him. But you—everyone saw your attacks on the [Slavers]. Come, come, tell us why you did it then and there. And no lies! I am generous, but I grow impatient with all this prevarication.”
Weith waved a finger at Pisces as he took more of the Djinni’s Tears and some of the appetizers for the table. Bits of it were genuinely delicious-looking. There were little shells of wheat or some other bread filled with meat and spices.
Flatbreads and colorful dips—some of which were clearly magical. A noble’s version of common fare. Lareceina kept trying to put some floating dip on a cracker. Pisces wasn’t that hungry, but he made a show of eating and drinking while not really touching much.
Especially not the liquor. They refilled his cup often, watching to make sure it was being refilled, but Pisces was a Wistram graduate.
He didn’t try for sleight-of-hand to toss it or let it dribble down his front. Rather, he used the simplest trick he had: he cast [Cleanse] every time he pretended to take a drink. Lareceina probably noticed, but he doubted the royals or bodyguards could tell what he was casting, even if they noticed the reduced spell. Unlike the regular [Cleanse] spell, Pisces could mitigate his mana usage to vanish only a mouthful’s worth. Training paying off.
My personal dimension is going to be filthy again. A small price to pay. Pisces tried to engage the [Prince] and pretend to loosen up a bit.
“I doubt I could tell many stories unlike the first, Prince Weith. I could recount a hypothetical raid on a [Slaver] caravan once. The rest is more a matter of tactics.”
“Ah, so killing a man is like killing any other? Is that bravado or humility?”
Pisces hadn’t been disarmed of his rapier, a sign of the royal’s confidence. He didn’t reach for it, but felt it in his hand, the shock of striking flesh and bone.
“I would say just honesty, Your Highness. If, hypothetically, I had done all you thought, it would feel the same.”
Again, there was that pause. Longer, this time. The nobles and people watching the booth peered at each other. One of the [Bodyguards] had a hand on a blade and kept watching Pisces. After a moment, Prince Weith forced a laugh.
“See, this. This. Named-rankers will not speak so to me, though they are often so interesting…but it is hard to talk to them. You know, I envied Prince Zenol. I thought him a fool, having to go adventuring given how his poor house had no real prospects. Do you know his story?”
“His father was killed in battle, and his house fell on harder times. I only knew him briefly.”
Princess Lithic broke in.
“His father was a gifted warrior. Not a diplomat. It plays well in some circles, but not the Court of Silks. A shame; Prince Zenol has made his mark as an adventurer, though.”
Her words made Prince Yosoc and Weith bristle and check their blades. Weith snapped.
“Yes, well, somewhat. House Isphel is not beyond trouble, and House Quarein is a dangerous foe, however the Silver Killer has humiliated that idiot. We would be fine allies of Zenol. If we chose to be. But there are a hundred [Princes] and [Princesses] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. How not with such a vast nation?”
“Does having so many royal classes devalue your status, Your Highness?”
—And there came Lareceina with an unexpected jab from the side. Prince Weith froze up, clearly uncertain how offended to be, but Princess Lithic replied smoothly.
“Say rather that we are a sign of greatness in this nation, and a [Princess] is still a [Princess], is she not?”
Everyone agreed at once. Lareceina ducked her head and sat back; Pisces spoke.
“So you aspire to be an adventurer like Zenol, Prince Weith? Is that why you came to meet me?”
The [Prince] was restless. He ordered a dessert from the menu, glancing around in irritation; the bar rushed more drinks out, and a backup performer was coming out on the stage. He snapped back.
“Honestly, Scourge? I meant to save you from yourself as courtesy! To bridge this foolishness—I would not see you dead, and dead you will be in a week if you continue this madness. Cousin Yisame has done much for you, I am not sure you know, in forbearing her wrath. But I intend to broker sense!”
That surprised Pisces, genuinely. Princess Lithic covered a smile with her fan.
“Myself, I am here to get a measure of the Scourge as well and see if he might serve my House’s interests. Yosoc, what about you?”
He was the most shy of the trio, and maybe a bit intoxicated already—he was wiping at his brows. He failed to meet Pisces’ eyes twice as he muttered.
“I…just wanted to meet the Scourge. It may be the Horns of Hammerad can serve my House’s interests, yes.”
Weith waved a finger at Pisces.
“There, you see? Curiosity for all, but we are royals of the Court of Silks; we lie, of course.”
“Of course. I am flattered, naturally, Weith. I do not discount a Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Prince]’s help. Ksmvr would be dead—and many good adventurers—but for Prince Zenol. Yvlon too, perhaps, when she fought Beton Doomguard. You could do anything conceivable.”
That pleased Weith, and he leapt up, striding about the booth excitedly as he took down another shot of his drink.
“This pleases me and annoys me. Zenol…I admit, my own heart leapt when I saw him fighting in the Village of the Dead. But he is just—a lesser [Prince]. I am far above him, not that I expect Izrilians to understand rank. However, look at my cloth!”
He flung out a tawny arm, and Pisces eyed the literally tawny color. Not just the skin tone, but something truly between yellow, orange, and brown. The color of an owl’s feathers, but oddly…luminescent?
“What cloth is this, Prince Weith?”
“Copperheart. Ah, it may sound common to you, but it is of the magical cloths. Strong enough to withstand a steel blade slashing without harm. Zenol is Silk. I am not.”
The Silk-folk in the audience were probably rich for Halqued. But Prince Weith’s words made them sigh with a longing that told Pisces this was a rich fabric. Princess Lithic leaned forwards.
“I am Night’s Sigh cloth. Which has little as remarkable for durability. But it is prized for its ability to regulate temperature and delicacy—the weave is ten times tighter than silk. My brain was woven of it.”
Another murmur. No wonder she felt sharpest of the lot. Pisces wondered what kind of advantages you got from making a brain out of better cloth.
Yosoc lifted a hand.
“I’m Reithread. It’s…good.”
Everyone eyed him and realized he might not actually know what his cloth did. Weith turned to Pisces.
“You’re Human and thus not expected to know this, Adventurer Pisces. But here you sit with three of the most powerful young folk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Four.”
The [Prince] glanced around, blinking, and Pisces pointed at Lareceina.
“Her team matched mine in combat.”
The [Compression Mage] blushed slightly, and Weith waved a hand.
“Ah, yes…but we are interested in you. I wish nothing ill of your team, despite how you treated a fellow [Prince]. I never liked Esceit. The Silver Killer? Fascinating, even if I would not shake her hand. But you—you are not said to be a fool. You knew when you struck at Roshal you were damning yourself, and perhaps your team, to execution or enslavement, did you not?”
Then every eye turned to Pisces. He stared past Prince Weith at a dancer who didn’t seem any less provocative; she came onto stage in a colorful dress, then promptly took her top off.
He really had to stop staring at breasts. Pisces thought of Merr and averted his gaze.
“Perhaps. But nevertheless, I allegedly did these things. What of it, Prince Weith?”
The [Prince]’s eyes gleamed, and they all watched him, bodyguards, Silks, Lareceina.
“You are a man who is Named-rank in popularity, if not yet level or deed. Are you a madman, then? What drives the Scourge?”
“Isn’t it obvious? The story should be known enough.”
“I want you to tell it.”
Pisces hesitated, cup lifted to his lips. He put it down and shrugged. Then he began to speak.
 
——
 
The Necromancer was a strange one. The Djinni’s Hour was on its head—not just because three royals had visited, but because the Scourge who had terrorized the city’s roads was here.
He was a bit disappointing, though. Yes, that was the word for it.
They kept probing him, the royals, the audience, seeking that hint of madness that Torreb and any great name had. Nor were they idiots, for all they were nobles.
The three members of royalty knew high-levels. If, say, they’d had Orjin of Pomle in here and he’d refused anything rich, going to practice standing on one leg in a corner—well, he might be unsociable, but he would be entertaining.
High-levels were all erratic. The fun was in figuring out who they were. The rest could be politics, but Pisces? He was polite enough and played decently with the light verbal sparring. But he wasn’t…anything.
He wasn’t crazy like the Silver Killer, who had you checking you knew the fastest way out a window, or the spirit of mischief like the Ice Squirrel, or just amazingly talented and knowledgeable like Colthei, who was, if boring, still Named-ranker material.
Was this all this man was? A bit of cleverness, a talent with the sword, and a unique class? If so, the Stitch-folk would be mightily let down.
Because such a man was fodder in a nation as filled with talent as this. What even Lareceina, who did not care for these situations, but studied them like a class, had picked up was this:
The worst thing Pisces could be was boring, right now. Unfortunately, he wasn’t giving them anything to work with.
He kept his summary of his enslavement light, sparing any juicy tidbits. When he finished with the chance meeting of the Death of Chains, there was a sigh. Princess Lithic ordered more cocktails as she took a Potion of Sobering to keep going. She poured Prince Yosoc one; he seemed to be holding his liquor badly.
Or maybe he was just bored. Prince Weith was shaking his head.
“Perhaps it’s well I came here.”
He got up, stretching his legs again. What a waste if this was all this was. But he’d done his good deed for the year and turned.
“You, Pisces, have a reason to your anger. I say this. I would be wroth beyond ages if anyone enslaved me. My fury would know no end, and Roshal would tremble for it. Is this not so and fair?”
Everyone nodded at this. Then the [Prince] waggled a finger.
“But—as that stuffy Drake said on the television, one [Slaver] is not all Roshal. This anger you have, you must relent enough to exist in our nation without forcing Yisame’s hand. You had done well until now. What changed?”
“I suppose my team left me and I lost my leash.”
Pisces muttered. For a second, Weith hesitated, and Yosoc sat up a bit.
“What are you, their dog? Their [Slave]?”
“Whatever you care to call it, [Prince]. Perhaps I misspeak at times. Consenting adults can use leashes, or so I’ve heard.”
Princess Lithic spat her drank across three members of the audience and coughed. That had Weith laughing, and he grew more animated. Pisces just kept staring at his drinks.
“Hah! But I shall not be distracted from my point. You would war against Roshal had you no fear for them or of the crown, yes?”
“In the interest of not giving a definitive—hypothetically, let’s say I would.”
Pisces picked up another fry, played with it, and put it on his plate. Weith nodded, then paced around again.
“But I tell you that if not more than, eh, a tenth of Nerrhavia’s Fallen owns a [Slave], then almost every single person interacts with one or is served indirectly by one. It is part of our economy. You would remove something that brings in more gold than the spice trade! I am not always interested, but this I understand. The same with the King of Destruction’s armies. They exist purely on that gold. He could win a hundred battles and starve for only taking weapons and armor.”
Pisces nodded.
“The economic argument isn’t lost on me, Prince Weith. The next thing you will say is that it is what you believe, I suppose. And I should respect that?”
“Bah, am I that much a fool? Listen—I am telling you Roshal is no Sariant Lamb. You have pushed them, and a Djinni is the least of what they have. Yes, they have done you a great disservice. How many have you killed? A thousand? Time to make some peace. Time to let them make amends. Or have you not thought to let them try?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows, surprised.
“What, let them pay a blood debt? You think that will solve it?”
“No, I am no fool. Not enough to allow for you to be nice. But to part ways without you dead and Roshal bled? Surely. This is just politics as even Esceit can play. Better yet, why not let them sell you [Slaves], eh?”
This time, the Scourge froze over, but Weith waved a finger.
“Ah, ah. Don’t rage at me yet, Scourge. Hear me out. You escaped Roshal with a few [Slaves], eh? Some might still be out there, like Merr the Storm.”
“…Perhaps.”
“Then why not let this be a solution? Let one go to Roshal, even I. And say to them, ‘we shall never be friends. Cross me and I shall kill you. Walk in front of me and I shall spit on your shadow. But we are quits if you make it right’. Then have them sell you, eh, Merr the Storm and whomever else was in your party. And two dozen more for good measure.”
Prince Weith clicked his fingers, and even Lareceina sat up. Pisces blinked at him.
“After all this? You think Roshal would simply do that?”
“They are a nation of [Merchants]. Better to pay off the lion than have to hunt it. And in this analogy, they have wronged the lion, and well they know it. It is bad business what they did. You think they want to be castigated day after day on television? But that is sense, is it not?”
Even the Scourge nodded after a moment. Which did not make him more interesting…but he sat forwards.
“And then we would stop.”
“It would save your life, your team’s lives, and the other [Slaves] who will know no peace from here till the edges of the world from their [Assassins]. And more. You could choose, eh, Izrilians. Drakes or Gnolls or what have you.”
Then Pisces flinched. Prince Weith appeared mightily satisfied and nodded around so that all marked that he had made the Scourge of Roshal blink. His voice became more energetic.
“You might free them, then. Which I expect you would. But I would say to you, Scourge, if you could take such actions as I think any reasonable man could do—then I would invite you around Nerrhavia’s Fallen. To friends of mine, or just acquaintances, that you might see those who ‘hold chains’ are not your foes. Just people.”
The young man froze over, and then there was that hint of…not a [Dangersense]. Princess Lithic sighed, disappointed.
The Silver Killer would set off a [Dangersense]. Pisces just paused. She turned and began studying the dancer on stage, who was quite good, nimble, flexible. Too lewd—Lithic twiddled her fingers to indicate she wanted another, or at least a male dancer for parity.
When she turned back, Pisces was arguing politely.
“It would appear that in time, I will be quite receptive to slavery.”
“Pisces, Pisces…do I argue like a [Sage] to say it is all good? No! Perhaps it is ill, perhaps it makes one unkinder to their fellow cloth. Perhaps. But when you pass by my schoolteacher on the street, she, who labored as the Hero of Zethe never did to ensure I understood the world—you would not see a heinous slavemaster!”
Prince Weith clapped a hand to his chest, tears coming to his eyes. He shook his head.
“Nor was she that rich! This may astound all to hear it, but she is, in fact…Cotton. Because I chased every Silk tutor away. She might have never had a [Slave], but I gifted her with some when I came of age, for her great service. She treats them like family, I am told. Would you cut her down, Scourge? A woman in her sixties, whose hands have wielded a baking pin on dough at worst?”
His argument was good. Even if the discussion were boring enough to have Lithic yawning like Yosoc. She saw Pisces think about it. Then he heaved a huge sigh.
“Perhaps.”
The [Prince] of House Dabrei was nodding along, preparing his next point, when his head stopped bobbing. He turned to peer at Pisces.
“Ah, I suspect you misworded that too. My schoolteacher? An unarmed lady who has never mistreated her [Slaves] or any other? Perhaps you’d kill…her?”
The [Necromancer]’s gaze was partially obscured by the haze in the club. He lifted his cup to his lips.
“I try to be a reasonable person, Prince. But I cannot promise what I do not know.”
“…It would be of great concern if you killed innocent women passing down the street.”
“Yes. Which is why I am called the Scourge. When it comes to Roshal, I can be—unreasonable. Greatly so. Or did you think I was unaware of the consequences when I rode on that first caravan?”
The three royals sat back up, and the bored Silks and Cottons who’d been listening peered at each other again. The script they had been playing was suddenly not matching the words coming out of Pisces’ mouth.
Prince Weith leaned forward, despite his anger in defense of his dear old schoolteacher. Who may or may not exist. Who knew? Lithic thought it might be a true story.
“Aha, anger I understand. Is it because you are the [Necromancer], so feared in Izril? Perhaps it is because I am made of cloth, but I find undead that rot distasteful, skeletons a bit off—but I do not fear your class. The Necromancer never came here. You were expelled from Wistram and your kingdom. Are you just a…[Rebel] at heart?”
Pisces glanced up at the ceiling. At the dancer, at the [Prince], and shook his head.
“No. I thought I was. In truth, I was quite a bitter young man about two years ago, Prince Weith. I confess, I didn’t take accountability for the things I’d done. By the time I came to Liscor, there was a part of me that yearned to be hated just that bit more. To have no hand reach out for me. Then…then, a little part of me wanted to reach that lowest point. Because then I could follow in his footsteps and forsake my humanity and mortality itself. Then I could be like Az’kerash.”
It was a given, of course, that someone was trying to record this conversation for posterity, and gossip was flying as fast as Skills were thrown. But suddenly, the bored attention was riveted. Lareceina spoke.
“You did not do that, Pisces. What changed?”
“I found a place I was accepted. A boring answer for a boring man.”
He smiled at her, and this time, no one fell for it. Princess Lithic’s mind ran and came up blank, so she nudged Yosoc. He looked around, then blurted out.
“Well, I didn’t come to persuade you to like slavery. I meant what I said; I just wanted to meet you. To like you, perhaps. But I’m not so obsessed I want to lick the Silver Killer’s metal foot like my brother—”
His brother wants to what? Yosoc went on as he threw even Pisces for a loop.
“—I just want to know what went through your head when you drew on the King of Destruction.”
Silence. Pisces blinked at Yosoc and saw two earnest eyes as Yosoc yawned. Even the dancer on stage paused to listen in, and his lips quirked self-deprecatingly.
He’ll say, ‘I don’t know what I was thinking,’ Princess Lithic predicted.
“I suppose I thought I could take him. Until I came to my senses. I assumed Yvlon had Mars, and Ceria might get Amerys. So I was hoping Colth would get Orthenon, Takhatres, and Gazi.”
Dead silence—then the table exploded into laughter. Incredulous laughter. Weith slapped the table, and Yosoc gave Pisces a smile, almost disappointed. He thought Pisces was humoring him.
“Truly, Adventurer?”
The [Necromancer] smiled faintly as he lifted the cup he never drank from.
“Just a flash of ego. Maybe not. But I thought I had to try. Yvlon was going to, and he was not going to relent on a matter we were arguing over.”
“You were going to force the King of Destruction’s hand?”
“I had to try. Just like I had to sail an undead ship at the [Slavers] of Roshal and fight the Bloodtear Pirates. Or ride on that caravan. I had to kill the Adult Creler threatening my team, and I had to go into the Village of the Dead. My life is full of objectionable un-choices. So you see, Prince Weith, we tend to disagree on why things happen.”
The [Prince] frowned at Pisces.
“You are…eh, what’s the word? Semanticing. You have a choice in each case, you just claim not to.”
“Oh, no, I didn’t have a choice. I assure you. If I weren’t to do any of that, I wouldn’t be the Pisces that was allowed into an establishment far nicer than this. Oh, they might let me in at the door, but I’m sure the real door wouldn’t let me in. And I’d kick myself out in time.”
He was drawing in some spilled drink on the table. Princess Lithic laughed.
“You’re such a moral figure, then, Adventurer. How…amusing. Life must be so easy to plot if you follow such a compass.”
How sad. It made him predictable. Pisces shrugged.
“You would think so, wouldn’t you, Princess? But I am always amazed at where it takes me. I used to sneer at a fellow I thought was straight as an arrow and sharp as a brick. Ylawes Byres, a man of convictions. But though we disagree on what is right, I admire how hard it must be to live like that. He has not lived a boring life, either. I am told Stitch-folk change everything about them—that they envy us for having identities. It must be worse to be able to shift one’s priorities, to compromise, and never have an anchor to hold you steady.”
Princess Lithic took genuine offense to that. Her eyes narrowed dangerously, but Prince Yosoc’s laughter forestalled an outburst.
“Hah! I like that. Well, well. I have never hated you for killing [Slavers] of Roshal. It may be insanity, but you are closer to that than not.”
He sat back, smiling, as if he were suddenly satisfied. The other two—increasingly not. Princess Lithic’s smile was a touch venomous, now.
“You seem to imply we are living lies in fear of, what, Roshal?”
“It might not be fear, Your Highness. Just a healthy respect for fundamental forces of your economy. After all, the [Slave] trade is Nerrhavia Fallen’s most valuable pillar. You would be foolish not to acknowledge this.”
Lareceina was polite, and got two glares as Pisces agreed. There was danger in Prince Weith’s voice as he replied.
“Yet it seems close to being called a coward, even so. If I had true disagreements with slavery, I would, of course, act as I thought most moral. But I have not heard one. Nor seen one. Is it better to just put a man to death? Jail him for life? I do not find these things more moral. Death is an abhorrence, but perhaps a [Necromancer] fails to see it that way?”
Pisces twiddled a finger as he stared past the two incensed royals.
“I believe I have been too rude and erred in my communication. Perhaps if we relaxed? The, ah, floorshow is quite adept.”
It was a lithe and colorful woman in big, baggy trousers, a patchwork of colors with obvious stitching. Topless, yes, revealing brown skin, and her breasts were pierced with ornaments that caught the light.
It was very distracting. But what made her entertaining even for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, who might be used to your usual [Sultry Dancer], was that this one had a theme. The pants were, uh…weird. But then you looked at her hat with that starfish design and the little bells on them and you got it.
Ah, nude dancing clown. Pisces shook his head.
“It must be a trend or something.”
Prince Weith took one look behind him and growled.
“I don’t believe I care to ‘simmer down’, as perhaps you meant, Adventurer. Give me a reason I should favor your Izrilian beliefs. Or is it Terandria, Ailendamus, you harken to?”
Pisces re-focused on the angry Stitch-man, and he thought. Then he gave Weith a nod.
“I don’t believe I could best you in an argument on the morality of slavery, Prince Weith. If you have not heard one already…I would love to be so gifted, but I fear I cannot bring justice to the feelings in my heart.”
He sighed, and the [Prince] was dangerously close to popping a blood vessel, magical cloth-skin or not.
“Then you recant your words? Because the only other way to read it is an insult. Though we have been cordial, I warn you, I cannot stand that to my honor.”
“Nor I.”
The [Princess] put in, shifting her fan to reveal that it was actually a series of cunningly-designed stiletto daggers she could hurl. That made her [Bodyguards] begin to really sweat behind her. They were trying to figure a way out of this.
Setting fire to one of themselves, perhaps, and claiming it was an assassination attempt. They were drawing lots when Pisces leaned forwards. And there it was now, a faint smile on his lips. A bit like he was mocking them. Or found something hilarious only he could see. That little sneer that had used to make an [Innkeeper] want to commit pan-based violence.
“Ah, once again, I misspeak. I have clearly left out a point by omission. Forgive me.”
“Elucidate us then.”
It had better be really good. Lareceina was housing fries like they were made of air out of nerves. She was keenly aware that two more royal enemies would not be good—and that was if they all parted ways in this club without an incident.
But Pisces had, in Lareceina’s opinion, just locked himself out of the one argument he could make against [Slavery]: the moral argument where she thought he had the most weight.
However, the [Necromancer] had a plan. It had begun before he’d even walked into this club. He had been in the city of Halqued long enough to get some intelligence about the city.
Nothing like a local would have…but he had made use of it in conjunction with an idea he’d had. And in the course of their conversation, he’d led the two into his logical argument. Plus, when he’d been doodling on the table just now, he’d been drawing a spell sigil.
A simple spell circle, the kind that enabled death magic. Nothing like the Death’s Door he’d made. Even so, one of the [Bodyguards] had spotted it and told their [Princess] it was there.
She focused on it now, fingers tensing on her fan, prepared to kick back and activate barrier spells. Pisces’ eyes flicked to her. He held up a hand.
“I’d like to cast a spell, if I may, to illustrate my point. Don’t worry. It’s potentially alarming—not hostile to anyone present. I swear.”
“We have truth spells. Nor are we cowards, are we, Lithic?”
Weith glanced at her, and she bit her lip. She did not like this. But pride was a trap, as Pisces well knew. So she had to hold still as Pisces’ eyes began to glow faintly.
That was a lot of magic. A…lot. A few alarms cut through the music in the background; The Djinni’s Hour was an upscale place, after all. But the royals were just waiting, and Pisces was using the spell sigil as a focus.
What was he doing? If he was animating a giant undead, did that count as ‘not hostile to anyone present’ so long as it wasn’t hostile when it animated?
When your life was hanging on a question like that, you really wished you’d worded your statement to the Djinni better. Yosoc was just grinning as he sat back, eyes heavy-lidded. Pisces began talking.
“For the sake of argument, Prince Weith, let me concede that I cannot rid Chandrar of slavery. That my team, my friends, will be in jeopardy if I continue my actions. I think this is fair; I have inconvenienced them. I am a bit mad, I think. Angry and driven insane by experiences I think you do not understand.”
Weith drew breath, and Pisces gazed at him. The [Prince] subsided into his chair, and Pisces went on.
“However, let me also concede that there is no good and pragmatic reason to do what makes me the Scourge. Also, for the sake of our conversation and my respect for your royal name—let me concede that there is no moral argument I could utter that can sway you. I am not in possession of the words.”
He smiled ruefully and went on.
“I concede there are innocent people who hold [Slaves]. I shall even concede there are good, admirable, and just people who hold [Slaves] in this world we argue over. Whether or not that is true, for the sake of our argument, I concede it. And I shall also concede that the powers of Roshal, including Emir Yazdil, did not know I was illegally taken as a [Slave].”
“…I am fairly certain he would have known the truth. You needn’t concede falsehoods.”
The hair was rising on Princess Lithic’s skin, and she tried to make a joke of things, but she was trembling slightly. No, wait. She wasn’t. The table was. Weith had lost his expression of surety. Now, he was searching for those windows.
Too late. Too late. They’d forgotten he was the Silver Killer’s teammate, and fun fact—there were no windows where you could easily bail out The Djinni’s Hour. They were locked and bolted to keep the haze effect in, as well as the noise and ambiance.
The people watching the Scourge talking to the royals were edging for the door. A young Stitch-man tried the handle—then his hand leapt away.
“Hey, open it! Just in case—”
The Cotton Stitch-girl, very grateful for her being too unimportant to listen in the front row suddenly, hissed at him. But he just turned.
“The—the door’s shaking.”
He had them trapped in the building. A [Bodyguard] was sweating into her helmet. She was taking aim at him from the side with a wrist-mounted crossbow, and there were twenty men and women armed with artifacts.
She didn’t want to die here. She spoke out loud.
“Oh, what a long day. Full of overwrought emotions. A humble servant such as I longs to but go home to my younger brother, who relies on me for sustenance and home. It would be a terrible tragedy if I were to die and leave him without either.”
Pisces, Lithic, Weith, Lareceina, and the people in the club glanced at her. Another [Bodyguard] broke in.
“It is difficult indeed to care for two grandparents and one’s entire family—”
Pisces started laughing. He chuckled with such genuine good humor it made the bowels clench around him. Then he opened one eye.
“I don’t intend to kill anyone here. Prince Weith. I simply conceded all that because I do not need these arguments. A simple trick of sophistry I learned at Wistram. Surely, you realize there is one more that trumps all such arguments.”
“I cannot think of it. Tell me, but do not mock me.”
Weith had gone still. He was a pampered [Prince], a rich fool, perhaps. But not entirely a coward. He waited until Pisces pointed. Straight at him.
[Deathbolt]. Princess Lithic was waiting to hear that word next, which she predicted would be Pisces’ reply. Which went to show that her analytical mind might not have been always the most…rationally good at anticipating the future.
Instead, Pisces spoke as the trembling engulfed the building. They were all frozen now. Stomachs lurching as if being pulled downwards. What was going on?
“Halqued is an interesting city. I’m a bit of an amateur historian, but this city, because it is not the richest, has many old relics of a different age. It was built, like Tyrant’s Rest, on the bones of a terrible empire.”
“The Immortal Empire. Nerrhavia, the Undying Tyrant.”
Lithic whispered that, and every Stitch-folk felt at their stitching, which trembled. It was almost sacrosanct to say her name without a curse, but Pisces nodded.
“She kept [Slaves] too. She had so many. That is not the argument you think it is.”
She whispered to him, and again, he nodded.
“No. Of course not. But she herself is predated by another time. One I am sure you know as well. The first era, where Stitch-folk became a people. They were not. At first, they were Golems. It was Elucina, whom Roshal mocks, the Rebel of String, who won your independence.”
Now there was a sensation in the back of Lithic’s mind. She could see what he was driving at, but she was spellbound.
The walls. The magic was in the walls. Lareceina’s head was whipping back and forth. It was—she had never seen spellcasting like this. But the [Necromancer] just winked at her.
“The Immortal Tyrant first rose to power in an era of great discontent. When Stitch-folk were enslaved, as had gone on in the past. No one would argue she was a terrible [Tyrant]. But the moment that she seized was the mistreatment of the cloth folk. And under her reign, the cloths were equal. Equal to all be made [Slaves], of course, but…it was only when her reign became too abhorrent that people rose up against her. A shackled people against a master.”
“You are equating the bonds of nations to the chains of a class.”
Weith spoke, head turning. And now he was looking down. Pisces was grinning.
“Maybe it is not fair. But in my case, Prince Weith, I was a man who didn’t know about [Slaves]. I would have told you I felt some sympathy for them. I might have helped had I the chance, but it was only when I became one that I cared. That is my selfishness. My privilege as a Human who never came to Chandrar. I wish I had known more, done more, before this, but I did not understand. But you?”
“Your Highness. The nightspot. The building.”
One of Prince Weith’s people was outside, securing the doors in case of trouble. They rasped, and he snapped back.
“I shall not flee, fool! Enter if you are so afeared for my safety!”
“Your Highness, it’s not that. The building—it’s rising.”
Then Weith leapt up, and he realized the sinking feeling in his stomach was literal. The entire nightclub was rising out of the ground.
Rising on the bones of foundations older than the building. Coming out of the earth, bit by bit, like—like a zombie.
As if architecture was a body you could animate. And the walls! The paintings on the walls were shaking. The wood cladding was trembling, falling away and revealing something older. Behind it—stone. A façade so old it had been thousands of years since—
Pisces’ eyes were locked on the walls as he poured his magic into the spell.
[Monumental Animation]. [Unearth the Tombs].
Then he felt the building finally rise to its old height. In the street, people were screaming, pointing—Lareceina’s team were staring at the building risen in the distance. But the [Mage] herself was just gazing around.
Death mana. He had drawn all he had and put it into this place. Now, the building discarded its old appearance like dead skin. The walls shed plaster and wood and revealed ancient stone.
Not crude stonework, either, but something ornate. Metal tiles, partially restored, missing in places, like an undead’s flesh, but whole enough to reveal what had been there.
A beautiful building of stone and metal meant to last generations. What had it been? Some great office? A museum like the one where Pisces had seen a list of old buildings like this one where the foundations had been re-paved? Or a nightclub?
He pointed, and the [Prince] turned. Then he saw the figure standing at the wall behind him. It was just as Pisces had hoped from the museum.
It looked like a grinning Stitch-person. Their gender was unclear, and they were androgynous. No…perhaps they literally were without one. Because they were in the middle of being woven.
Fabric, depicted in excruciating detail, was being combined into an upraised arm. Not just silk; Pisces saw the deliberate patterns he associated with yarn, knitting. What seemed like reeds being spun upwards into the flesh of an arm.
It was a gigantic mural. The Stitch-person was…breathtaking. They filled the entire wall of the club, which had once been half again as tall as the current nightclub. There was even color, but Pisces’ magic was not perfect; it was just glimmers of vivid paint.
A Stitch-folk made of a dozen types of fabric and colors, smiling at the viewer. Not Silk. Nor Hemp. Nor one thing. Each piece of their body seemed important. Soft silk and tough and sturdy reed-hemp, layered in places, or mixed together.
A kind of Stitch-person unlike any that existed in this world today. Pisces stared up at them, and it was what he’d hoped to see. But the next image, on the other wall, was what he’d gambled on. Because it was the same Stitch-person reenacting the story of their people. They had on a strange pair of shackles. They seemed to go into them, like a puppet’s strings. Through their back, looping around their limbs.
A [Puppetmaster]’s creations. It made Pisces unsettled to see it. But the Stitch-person—was cutting the threads apart. Ripping them out. Yes, there. He spoke as Prince Weith gazed up.
“I am just a single Human in a war that has been going on for aeons. I am ignorant, and this is not my home. But you, Prince Weith? Rebellion is in your thread.”
He stood up and drew his sword. The [Bodyguards] jerked, but none of them shot him. Which was very good; Pisces planted the sword’s tip on the table as showily as he could.
“They call me the Scourge of Roshal. I do not deserve the title. The ‘Scourge’ is nothing more than anyone who longs to be free. I will not endanger my team. But nor will I compromise what I believe in. Let those who hold chains beware.”
His head turned around the room, and there was a strangled shout. It sounded, to Lareceina, like someone trying not to cheer. She was shaking in her chair, trying her utmost to be silent.
Because she could not be the first person to jump up and shout agreement, of course. She had to be the adventurer of Wildcard who objected to him. Once the cheering began—
The nightclub was thrumming with emotion and magic. The [Necromancer]’s eyes were shining, and he was breathing hard. He’d spent so much power to animate this building, but this display of magic unlike anything they had ever seen, his words—
They were winning the Stitch-folk over. Especially the young ones filling this building. Even the royalty were hesitating, swept up.
Princess Lithic could not meet the eyes of the Stitch-person on the walls. Every time she tried to come up with a sniping argument to undercut Pisces, she looked up, and it was like her very Lifethread was vibrating.
Maybe it was in their cloth. Some kind of memory that called to them throughout time and space. The voice of the first [Rebel of String] calling an entire species to fight for what they had not been given.
A terror to anyone of Roshal who could hear Pisces. A [Necromancer] far more dangerous than one who merely animated horrors. Anyone could make a killing machine. But he could animate thoughts.
Was it perfect? No, of course not. But he was swinging the nightclub around. Certainly, Prince Weith had nothing he felt able to say. He was just gazing up at the walls. Feeling at his skin, as if longing to know what that other body felt like.
Wiping at his eyes.
Pisces had the Cottons who stood by the doors, staring down at the drop between the entrance and the street. The Silks, who saw him, then, the Scourge. Prince Weith, Princess Lithic, Lareceina, Prince Yosoc—
Prince Yosoc was lying, head lolling back against the padded booth. His mouth was open, and he was breathing, but he was utterly passed out.
Pisces paused when his eyes flicked to the [Prince].
Odd. He hadn’t drunk that much. And he’d been excited to see Pisces. You’d think if even that failed, even Yvlon Byres herself would have opened an eye to see him resurrecting a building, sleeping sickness or not. The man’s bodyguards clearly agreed, because one was covertly shaking the [Prince].
“Your Highness. Your Highness?”
He…wasn’t waking up. Lithic broke off mouthing at Pisces and frowned.
“What? Is he that sleep deprived?”
“No, Your Highness. I don’t know what—”
“It cannot be a spell. Or poison. Is he allergic? Check, fool!”
The [Bodyguards] broke out of their trance, and Weith looked over. Lareceina’s head turned, and Lithic went on.
“It couldn’t be spell or poison; no [Prince] or [Princess] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen who is old enough to crawl goes around without protections against either. Even the sleeping sickness your enemies used on the Silver Killer wouldn’t work on him… ”
…So why was the [Prince] out? Pisces stared at the man and remembered Yosoc taking down the Firebreath Whiskey that had come around. He was the only man who had. He lifted the pitcher, and a [Bodyguard] hesitated.
“He’s asleep, Your Highness…”
“You cannot be immune to poisons, Princess Lithic.”
Pisces frowned, and the young woman waved a hand at him.
“I merely mean that our charms and protection spells would detect anything, Scourge. In this nation? It would have to be a master’s work to pass undetected…”
Then she went silent. And she too eyed the pitcher. Pisces felt a crawl on his back suddenly. And he was conscious how he’d used up so much mana just now—which didn’t matter, of course. He was safe in this city. Yisame wasn’t angry at him.
She wasn’t angry at him. She’d even sent Wildcard to protect him.
Two of whom weren’t here.
 
——
 
Merr the Storm was riding hard to lose pursuers or the Face who was after her. She was not happy. Having to say goodbye to Pisces like that left her angry.
So this was not a great time to get a dead drop from Revine containing a speaking stone. But the [Bandit Queen] collected her loot chests at random, when she felt like it, and the moment a [Bandit] passed the speaking stone to her, Merr growled.
“Revine, I’m not in the mood for chatter.”
“Well then, I’ll keep this short. Don’t speak back to me, Merr. I’m the one processing all this gear and keeping your Dustbandits out of trouble remotely.”
Merr bit back an oath. It was like a pissing match between her and Revine sometimes, and the woman didn’t even have a cucumber but she acted like hers was smaller. Not that you could get her to admit that.
“Fine, Your Exalted Majesty. What’s so urgent? You’ve got a fortune in Roshal’s goods; don’t tell me it ain’t worth nothing. And I want some of that to gear my people.”
“You’ll get it. Do you think I’m going to argue procedure? Shut up. I have a question for you. When did you start hiring capable members for your Dustbandits? You’re supposed to report it to me.”
Merr rolled her eyes.
“For the love of—it’s just Pisces! Have you not seen us tearing Roshal a second hole?”
A pause. Revine was probably mad about the Ice Squirrel; it was no secret she was itching for payback. But her voice was suddenly introspective.
“Really. Is he…truly that high-level?”
“He’s been throwing Skeleton Champions at problems like I have Dustbandits. I saw him take down a Silver-bell duelist in thirty seconds.”
Merr smiled despite herself, and Revine snapped back, as unpredictable as a winter storm.
“Not that, fool! He’s higher-level than even Colthei if what you’re saying is right!”
“Higher-level than the Named-ranker? I’ve never met him—no, he’s in my range.”
“Forties, then. That’s not who I meant. Who’s the other one?”
“Other one? What other—”
Then Merr got that bad feeling. The itch you got when you realized it was too quiet around the watering hole or the shadow you’d thought was just a natural one was moving oddly. She swallowed.
“Wait, I’ve not hired anyone high-level, Revine. If anything, we lost one of my best girls. That bastard got them. The Ringer. Took out an entire [Rebel] cell and our group.”
“…The who?”
“The—”
Merr nearly shouted as she swung an arm out. The Dustbandits slowed, confused; she waved an arm, and she was taking them around in a circle. But they had been riding since they’d parted ways with Pisces, and it was dark. They were so far away, but—her heart was pounding.
“The Ringer, Revine. You sent the warning about the Face, the one that was after us?”
“Oh, them. That stupid alias. The Guild loves playing word-games. I sent you the full file on them. Didn’t you get it last dead-drop? I know it was in your box, Merr. Ask your people! It’s not the Ringer, they’re called the ‘Jester’. And they…like to…”
Revine’s mouth seemed to catch up with her words at the same time as Merr put something together. She started galloping, shouting at the Dustbandits. But she was far too far away.
Far too far. If she’d been with Pisces, they’d be two high-level people with a gang of [Bandits] around at all times. Even a Face would hate those odds. Same for a [Necromancer] with a horde of undead.
But if he had neither horde nor [Bandits]? Then you waited for an opening. Hadn’t Pisces said—hadn’t he commented on that stupid new girl? He’d said—
 
——
 
“…There are a lot of odd performers around Nerrhavia’s Fallen. [Fools]. What’s that class Ryoka hates? [Clowns].”
Pisces spoke softly, just to himself, and Lareceina blinked at him. Princess Lithic glanced up; Weith was testing the unconscious Yosoc with his ring. But Pisces was just gazing at the drugged [Prince].
“What, Adventurer Pisces? [Fools]?”
“Yes, colorful clothing. Weird hats, painted faces?”
The [Princess] frowned at him.
“I don’t recall there being a surge in such individuals. That sounds like a Terandrian fancy.”
“Huh. But I swear I’ve seen tons of them.”
Pisces could count the number of times, in fact. It was just there, in the background, but the first time…he muttered.
“The first time was at the Adventurer’s Guild in Tyrant’s Rest. There was a young woman, a Silver-ranker there. Then after the Tomb of Yad’thuv, there was a performer. Right after Ceria made fun of Lareceina.”
“I remember that. She was topless, and you stared at her breasts, then vanished.”
Lareceina spoke slowly. Pisces nodded.
“I’m self-conscious about…they’re highly distracting. And they were pierced, I recall. Then I ran across a Slave-Adventurer. A [Clown]. She wanted to join me, but I said no. And then there was Chimes.”
A new [Bandit] with face-paint. Funny. Not funny at all, when you thought that. Pisces’ gaze slowly rose, and the last familiar face was on stage, shaking their hips.
Side to side, holding little colorful pom poms, which she juggled. Face painted white despite her familiar brown skin. Topless—but right now, he wasn’t focused on that. It was her clothing, which was like the iconic eye-sear of the [Fool]. The unfunny costume of the [Clown]. But perhaps a bit different?
The key was the hat. The jingling bells, why, they rang.
They rang, or should have, when she moved. But these were silent. And they were each one bright as silver, Pisces realized. A strange little silver bell, a bit too small you might say.
A [Jester] should have big clangalang bells. But these? Tiny. You could fit one on a smaller object. Like the hilt of a rapier. There were eight on her hat. And then he stared at her chest.
Well, she was waggling her breasts at him. Smiling as every head turned. And he stared at her nipples, which were pierced. A choice indeed. But when you got past that…he stared at what was hanging from each nipple.
A golden bell. Then he looked up, and she smiled and blew a kiss at him.
“Hello, Scourge.”
The Jester of the Assassin’s Guild bowed as he took hold of his rapier. Out of magic, without Wildcard or his team. Pisces exhaled.
“Wonderful.”
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
There was a period where I stayed away from cliffhangers. I stopped putting them down because chapters were so all-encompassing. But to write a shorter chapter, one must stand on the cliff’s edge.
Hey, it’s me. I’m taking a break until the 3rd of October…but I wouldn’t let you wait that long. This chapter is being split into two parts because it’s so long, but I will edit and have the 2nd half out on Tuesday.
It’s taken great effort, and I am not my usual self, but I think it’s a good chapter. Just in need of a bit more time. So just wait. Read my announcement if you need clarity, and…well, I’m going to rest.
But after the action and the chaos and the sniffing lie dead. Did you recognize the hints? I kept it subtle, but she was always there. Never trust the clown, the fool, or the jester. Wish me luck and energy, and Pisces victory. See you Tuesday.

10.75 H (Pt. 2) (2026-09-02)

<I am taking a month-long break due to a death in the family and to rest. Read my announcement here—I’ll post a new chapter on October 3rd.>
 
 
“A Face of Chandrar has come for you, Pisces Jealnet. Throw down your blade or die. I am the [Jester].”
She was still dancing on that stage as a bright haze of pink and blue surrounded her, like a performer coming out of backstage. There was a spotlight fixed on the [Assassin]’s body, highlighting her torso.
The bells that swung from her silly hat and chest that never rang. Her face, painted white, with black mascara highlighting her eyes and lips. An artful jewel of ice drawn on one cheek, a jagged bolt of lightning crossing her other eye.
No colorful red nose.
[Jester], not [Clown]. Nor [Fool]. The nuance…Pisces’ rapier was raised, and he had set himself sidelong. He was trapped behind the table, next to the others in the booth. Heart pounding.
She killed Casep and the others. She’s been following me since the palace. Idiot—if I’d drunk that whiskey, I’d be dead. 
Or in chains.
A deeper certainty spoke to Pisces as he tried to analyze her. Those bells. He knew them. Idiot only looking at her breasts—
Those were the bells of [Duelists]. Which meant she might have earned one silver one and one gold one, but the rest…she’d taken them from the people she’d killed. Unless it was a bluff. Anyone could commission a bell—
It wasn’t a bluff. She was the genuine article. He hadn’t noticed it when she was hiding her abilities, but now she swayed to the right and left, drawing a pair of long blades. They seemed like oversized daggers. Handleless, with that long, stabbing point.
Dirks? She was wielding both in her hands, not reversing one like he’d seen Seborn use. Pisces didn’t know how they would move. But she was here.
A song from the [Popstar] of Terandria was blasting from the back of the club as the Jester sauntered forwards. She ignored the gasps, the incredulity from the people around her. Even laughter.
Her eyes were just focused on Pisces, and they gleamed, yellow coins spinning like a [Gambler] tossing one last bet onto the table. He watched her balance shifting.
Perfect form. Just like the Maestro or Raelt. He felt like she was stabbing him from there. His lungs were pressed against his ribs. Even more than Itkisa—he remembered this feeling from meeting the King of Destruction.
She was over Level 50. And he was almost out of magic.
Her clothing wasn’t visibly enchanted, but if he’d failed to notice her, then it might b—
Pisces slammed into Lareceina and knocked her flat. She went headfirst into the table so hard her nose started bleeding. A blade stabbed through the cushioned seat where he had been, then he ducked.
The second slash cleaved through a guard’s chest, spilling red gore onto the table. The Jester tsked as Pisces stabbed, and his rapier rang as she backflipped up. She threw something—his [Barrier of Air] exploded.
The second dirk tumbled through the cloud of debris and landed in a booth next to his; Pisces saw the third one coming at him and deflected it with his rapier. It exploded as he flicked it across the room, and there were screams.
All of this before Lareceina finished saying ‘wh—?’. His foot was on the cushioned seats again, the other one on top of the table. He was panting. Feeling at his side.
She’d torn through his robes. Missed his skin. The Jester winked.
“Exalted royals of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You may wish to run.”
She called out, voice playful and carrying. Only, her attack had created another moment of paralysis. No one was laughing at the strange woman now.
Most hadn’t even seen her move. Lareceina staggered upright, clutching at her nose, eyes wide. Pisces kept his attention on the Jester, desperate. The moment he’d lost the tiniest focus to check her clothing, she’d attacked.
She’s faster than Colth. She’d jumped from the stage into the booth in a single move. He heard a voice croak.
“A Face of Roshal? Ridiculous. I am Prince Weith of—of—”
Weith was dragging himself upright, face pale. He went for his sword, and the Jester didn’t even glance at him. She just spoke off-handedly.
“Anyone in this building in a minute’s time is dead, along with him. This is just between us, Adventurer. It’s a duel. I challenge you for the honor of Roshal.”
She pointed her rightmost dagger at Pisces, and he tensed. Weith hesitated. He looked to the unconscious Yosoc; Princess Lithic was on her feet, pushing to get out of the booth with her bodyguards. There were whites in the corners of Weith’s eyes.
He was afraid. But he still reached for his sword.
“This man is under the protection of House Dabrei and Nerrhavia’s Fallen, woman. Leave or—”
Someone lunged. Weith half-turned. But the hand that slammed into his, stopping him from drawing the blade, wasn’t one of the Jester’s accomplices. It was one of the [Bodyguards].
The woman with the younger brother tackled the [Prince], and her buddy with the grandparents grabbed his legs. They heaved him over the edge of the booth, and Yosoc’s people were doing the same.
“Out! Out—”
Princess Lithic was running for the doors, the only way out. Stitch-folk were standing at the edge, and they were a story up. It was a long dr—
Lithic pushed a Stitch-man out, then leapt herself. The cursing Prince Weith was shouting obscenities.
“Put me down! My h—”
The [Bodyguards] tossed him out the door, then leapt themselves. Prince Yosoc’s people were right behind them. They just bailed out onto the street. Breaking the [Prince]’s legs in a fall?
Far better than having him minced by a Face of the Assassin’s Guild. This was their job. You had to admire it. Exemplars of the class, really.
They knew exactly what would happen if they’d stayed. Pisces saw it all out of the corner of his eyes as he stood there. They’d cleared the booth; Lareceina was edging out as well, and he needed the space. He would have leapt from the booth to the floor, but he was afraid to move.
The Jester had let the others go. She kept flipping a dagger up in her right hand, twirling it, catching it. Baiting him. She flipped it, caught the blade between two fingers, and winked at him.
“One gets in trouble for killing royalty. But I can kill anything I need to accomplish my goals. You should have taken me as a helper, Scourge. I’d have given you a night to remember, then you’d have woken up in a box to the harbor.”
“You killed Casep, Chimes. Were you after Merr, or was that just to get at me?”
He needed an opening to drink a mana potion. He needed a strategy. Or to just—
Flip. The rightmost dagger twirled in the air, and Pisces’ eyes were caught by it. A hypnotizing twirl.
[A Hypnotizing Trick].
She was a blur, leaping across the room, off the walls of another booth, striking from the side, and he couldn’t look away for the crucial moment. She attacked into his blind spot, and he—
—parried—
The dagger. Tried to pivot and reset as the Skill let him go, but they were nose-to-nose, and she was grinning.
Inside the guard of his rapier. His hand came up.
“[Deathb—]”
Her empty right hand punched him in the ribs, hit his jaw, and struck his chest a second time. Pisces flew backwards, into an adjoining booth, as Lareceina whirled. The Jester dove, dodging a stream of black magic. Her right hand was filled with a fan of enchanted daggers, and she threw them, conjured another set, threw them, then threw a third volley.
Explosions. Only then did she pause, cocking her head, and shook out her right hand ostentatiously.
“Nice armor.”
Pieces of wood were raining down as Lareceina shielded herself with a wall of air. The smoke cleared and revealed splintered wood and fabric; the booths where Pisces had been standing were shredded.
Pisces? He was crouched behind a [Wall of Bone] spell, clutching at his chest. But his hand still held his rapier. Lareceina saw his wide eyes and shredded robes. The Jester was eying him, gaze bright, smiling, but tensed.
 
——
 
She’d broken his ribs and jaw. That free hand had punched so hard—
She backed off when I cast [Deathbolt]. Even Roshal doesn’t know necromancy well.
Flickers of thoughts as he poured death mana into his bones. Pisces spoke despite his broken jaw. He had to.
“Armor made from Stalker, the guardian of Liscor’s dungeon. I trust you hurt your hands?”
“Want to kiss them to make them better?”
She grinned; she had a playful, casual tone, but the Jester was circling now, letting the fog effect in the club engulf her. Pisces rose, trying to keep her in sight. She just kept…
“Doesn’t cover your arms or legs. Let me see if I can stab through it.”
“No thank you. Tell me—how does a [Jester] become one of the Assassin’s Guild’s deadliest killers? Or is that just a cover? I’m rather dismayed. I had hoped my end would be a bit more…dignified.”
He sniffed, tilting his chin up, and it worked. Her eyes narrowed ever-so-slightly.
“Everyone laughs at [Jesters]. I’ve killed plenty of rivals and marks who were still laughing. You never saw me. Your friend, the [Supporter], is proof any class is dangerous.”
“I’m not laughing.”
His ribs snapped back into place, and Pisces tried not to twitch. His flesh was one huge bruise, but he was moving the bones back into place, healing them. Drassi’s Ancestors, it hurt like hell! Yvlon hadn’t mentioned this!
Right, she could [Ignore Pain]. He kept his tone light.
“Ever heard of a [Clown] in Rhir? You remind me of him.”
Again, he struck lucky. The Jester hesitated, then snorted.
“If you knew anything, the Fool would be the name you mentioned first. Alas, he’s dead. The greatest man of his class the world over. If he’d lived, then the three of us could have formed a real team. [Clown], [Jester], [Fool]. Three of Cards. Our class has mysteries even I don’t understand.”
“My friend knows the [Clown]. I could write you an introduction. If you let me live.”
She had halted in another opening across from him. Fifty feet away?
She’ll close it in a moment, but he could parry her blades. Just not both…he’d have to use his offhand to cast on her. The Jester stopped…bent down…and picked up the dagger she’d twirled.
He stared at her as she rotated her shoulder.
“What? I don’t have [Recall Blade]. I’ll pass on the [Clown]; no one likes an unfunny duo. Slapstick comes best in threes. Hm, interesting. You just repaired your bones, didn’t you? Thought so.”
A flash of white teeth. Pisces cursed; he’d been trying to mumble a bit and hold his ribs—he straightened.
“You leave me no choice, then. I warn you; I won’t hold back.”
He conjured another [Deathbolt] to his fingertips. Cast a spell. The Jester’s eyes flickered, and she jumped the [Fireball]—sighed.
Then she kicked off a dagger she threw into the air. Mid-air mobility! She was falling downwards, throwing more daggers, even a bouncing ball that detonated—but Pisces was [Flash Stepping]. Running for—
The doors. He blocked two more daggers with a [Barrier] of air and was almost out when he jerked back.
A giant hammer hit the doorway and blew the entire section of the club to pieces. Pisces recoiled, and the Jester was right on top of—
She slashed through the illusion of Pisces and turned her head.
“Huh.”
He appeared, creeping towards the kitchens. The club had to have at least two exits. The Jester had been right on top of him until that last attack. Then he’d [Flash Stepped] across the entire club, and she’d fallen for his illusion.
She’d be on him in a second, but he could get out. Then go to ground. Animate dead or just jump into the Wistram Carriage. He doubted she could catch it once it was at full speed.
Yes, Pisces was running. He wasn’t prepared for this, she was higher-level than he was, and he didn’t have his team. There was no other option that made sense. The Jester’s surprise, though, was genuine.
“This is a duel, Adventurer. Or don’t you see the bells?”
She indicated the ones hanging from her breasts, and he called out.
“I’m not taking duels, thank you.”
“…Huh.”
He was in the kitchens, conjuring a [Bone Wall] to cover his retreat, and at the open doors that led into the back alleyway when he heard her voice echoing back from the club.
“I’ll just kill this girl, then.”
Pisces froze, one hand on the doorway. He closed his eyes. There was a pause—then a shrill scream and sobbing.
“Damnit.”
 
——
 
There was a Stitch-girl there. Pisces would have felt even worse if there wasn’t as he walked back into the club. The Jester didn’t have a blade at her throat; she’d just tossed one into the wall where one of the club-goers had been hiding. Too scared to leap down. She was shaking as Pisces emerged, and the Jester applauded.
“Oho! You’re as noble as they said! You won’t duel a poor [Jester], bells or not, but you’ll save the damsel, right?”
“Let her go.”
The Jester shrugged. She grabbed the Stitch-girl, heaved—she went flying out the doorway. Pisces flicked his hand.
[Shatterbolt]. It was dead on target. The Jester spun back around, leaned under it…and appeared vaguely impressed.
A scream, then a thump, a pause, and more screaming. The [Shatterbolt] blew a piece of the roof across the street into pieces, followed by the sound of shrieking masonry. The Jester glanced back at the hole in the roof.
“That was your [Shatterbolt], wasn’t it? My, you are underhanded. Just so you know, if you run again, I’ll murder someone on the street for every second I can’t find you. Cute children first.”
She flicked her blades up and began to saunter forwards. Closing the distance. Pisces walked forwards too. He could not be caught in the doorway. The open space in the center of the club was his only hope.
“Shame you wasted that spell. It was the only one you had that could hurt me.”
He didn’t reply to her. Pisces’ heart was thundering.
I’m a fool. I should have run. He just couldn’t risk…he’d wondered if it had been Lareceina. It didn’t matter. She’d kill if she couldn’t find him.
Fool. He thought he could see Selys shaking her head and trying to hide a grin. The [Necromancer] lifted his blade.
Shatterbolt wouldn’t have worked in close-range combat. The hand-motion would just lose him his hand in battle. He had to keep moving. Her range was closer than his. Watch debris on the floor.
The Jester was grinning again. She stopped walking and began performing tricks. She took a step, raising her back leg impossibly high behind her, then—her torso tilted forward and down, her head passing her knee and rotating back upward three hundred and sixty degrees.
Like she was just frontflipping forwards, while walking. All the while speaking in that cheery, playful tone.
“I really would have liked to take you as a [Slave], but you went too far, Adventurer. But there’s one consolation. I really like that bell. I’m going to have to find a place of honor for it. How about right…here? Clients love the piercings.”
She indicated her groin, and the bells on her nipples rang—Pisces saw her grin mischievously.
[Joveln’s Parry]! He was swinging as she dove at him again, both daggers twirling in a spinning strike.
They saw each other’s Skills, and both dodged. Pisces [Flash Stepped] away as she cancelled her Skill and came in low, blades sweeping out as she kicked.
Daggers in her boots—the Jester scythed up as he kept retreating, slashing at her, but she blocked his rapier once, twice. Her daggers turned the slashes away with ease.
She was pressing in, and he couldn’t shake her even with [Flash Steps]—in desperation, Pisces leapt onto one of the tables. He [Flash Stepped] onto another. The Jester didn’t leap up; instead, she kicked a table at him, and his went skidding across the floor.
Footing unstable—he fell, twisting, and slashed across her front as she came in. Fired a spell from his offhand as he leapt back up.
[Deathbolt]. She dove under it, and he [Flash Stepped] back again—she performed a handspring and caught him. Just as fast. Swung her daggers.
His rapier parried one. She ignored the [Flame Swathe] spell and swung. Pisces raised his free arm, and her blade hit him.
 
——
 
“Pisces!”
Lareceina had been taking cover near the broken booths. She hadn’t been able to even get a word in edgewise. When the two fought, they exploded into motion then separated, so fast the [Mage] couldn’t keep up.
But that final blow—the [Jester] would have swung again, but Pisces’ rapier came up in a [Rising Spearthrust], and she leapt back. She was frowning. She backstepped, gaining ground as Pisces clutched at his arm.
The slash should have gone through his arm and cut him in half. Why hadn’t it? The answer became clear as Pisces lifted his wounded arm to inspect it. The arm she’d cut—Lareceina saw white bone beneath, stained red with blood. But the Jester hadn’t cut through it?
Then she saw the faint glow of death magic she’d begun to pick up on around him. It was in his bones.
“You are full of surprises.”
The Jester was no longer happy. Lareceina was trying to figure out…
The Jester had something that was making her move as fast as Pisces with [Flash Step]. [Burst of Speed]? She accelerated into a blur, but Pisces’ spell was keeping him as mobile as she was.
Nor had she expected him to use the tables as footing. Lareceina swore she’d seen an expression of surprise on the Jester’s face—twice. First when he’d leapt onto the tables, then when her surprise attack had failed.
Why? To the [Compression Magus]’s frantically racing mind, the answer presented itself.
She had been expecting Pisces to get distracted or offended by her comments. The dangling bells on her exposed chest were meant to draw attention. Lareceina had seen Padurn Jealnet on television. She could just imagine that if he were facing the Jester, the impropriety of her attire would have made him either lower his guard or lose his temper. Underestimate her.
This entire venue was also not where a [Duelist] would be at home. The chairs and tables, the debris…but Pisces was an adventurer. And he’d fought in buildings like these more than once.
His eyes never left the Jester as she theatrically pulled down her pants a bit.
“This does nothing for you either?”
She was not wearing underwear. Lareceina saw Pisces color faintly, but his eyes remained locked on her daggers, her body as a whole. The Jester’s eyes narrowed again.
She doesn’t like that. But then she checked her front, and Lareceina realized Pisces had cut her. A red line down one of her breasts and stomach. An injury, but barely superficial.
“Tough cloth.”
Pisces was panting. He wanted to grab a healing potion. Blood was streaming from a cut artery onto the floor. He had to drink one, but she was just waiting. Each second he lost more blood, but the moment he went for the potion, he’d have only one hand free to fight. The Jester could literally stand here and he’d be dead.
“I see.”
She was such an intelligent fighter. Every trick she could use to prey on Pisces—she was only failing because she’d misread him. Perhaps because of Padurn or her just underestimating the real Pisces. Even so, he was losing each time they clashed. So this was a real [Assassin].
Lareceina sighed. Then she stepped out of cover and thought a Skill.
[Fast Fingers].
She didn’t have the ability to flick knives, but she could load up both hands with five marbles each, then flick them outwards. Kusal called it her ‘shotgun’ move. It cost a lot of mana, but ten compressed orbs of mana exploding with the force of Tier 3 magic?
The Jester was pivoting already when the explosion went off, and she vanished. Lareceina kept moving, flicking the marbles of mana as fast as she could move her thumbs. She hosed the area in front of her with explosions, but where—?
The Jester leapt out of the smoke, blades drawn, and Lareceina detonated the marbles she’d placed in front of her. Then activated her failsafe.
[Directional Spell]. The marble of wind blasted her through the air, and she cast a second spell.
“[Featherfall]!”
Then she was floating through the air, tumbling head-over-heels. That saved her life; she saw the Jester come through all of her defenses, slashing across the ground, looking up—she flicked a dagger up and dodged as Lareceina hit the club with magic.
Nonstop explosions. Her [Arcane Barrier] was dead, though, and Lareceina landed, panting.
“I think I missed everything.”
Terrifying. The Jester emerged from the smoke, some soot and detritus clinging to her. But not visibly hurt. She seemed pissed, though.
Because…Pisces tossed the second empty potion bottle to the floor. Healing potion, mana potion. He was panting as the blood rushing from his arm stopped. He nodded at Lareceina.
“Thank you.”
He’d seen her preparing her attack. The Jester hadn’t ever run into a [Mage] like Lareceina before and hadn’t known about the marbles. The [Compression Magus] had hoped she’d get the woman with some of it…Lareceina gulped and spoke loudly.
“Just so it’s clear, I do not approve of Pisces the Scourge’s crusade against Roshal.”
The Jester and Pisces stared at her. Lareceina loaded up with two more marbles, one fire, the other lightning. She spoke as she rested her hands on her custom belt.
“I’m simply acting as a Gold-rank adventurer hired to keep him alive. I wish to make that clear.”
The Jester smiled with no real mirth.
“I’ll put that in my report then. Along with your head. Is there no such thing as honor in a duel, Adventurer?”
“She’s trying to lure you into an honor duel again.”
Lareceina warned Pisces. He jerked his head at her.
“Get back. She’s too fast, and she can cut through your barriers. Just keep her from overwhelming me.”
He was moving, shielding her from the Jester. Lareceina would have preferred to flank the woman, but she knew she was dead the instant the Jester got close to her. She’d have to throw her magic while avoiding hitting him…tricky. The Jester waved one dagger.
“What about the honor part?”
He gave her a blank look.
“What honor? I’m an adventurer and a [Necromancer]. I’m a Silver-bell, you’re a Gold.”
To that, the Jester just sighed. She scrubbed at her hair with the butt of one of the daggers.
“When I get back, I’m killing whomever wrote your files up. Okay, adventurers. Let’s die.”
She let go of something. Her playful attitude. Or perhaps she was still holding back. All Lareceina knew was that she was suddenly more afraid. The Jester ran at Pisces. And the first marble that Lareceina flicked at her, a ball of compressed lightning?
Cut it in half. She ran through the sparking electricity that set her hair on end and flashed off her bells. Grinning. She cut through the flames as well—then Lareceina began to swear.
 
——
 
In the street, people were pointing at The Djinni’s Hour and shouting. Many had scrying orbs, but the fight between the Jester and Pisces hadn’t even reached the air yet.
It had been so quick—the only reason anyone was here was because they’d seen Pisces animating the building. But it had been, what? Three minutes?
Prince Weith was holding a sprained arm as he roared at his [Bodyguards], who were dragging him away. None of them would get close. In fact, the army and Watch, who’d been coming to investigate this event with great reluctance?
They’d heard ‘Face of Roshal’ and formed a blockade of the streets. Six blocks away from the nightclub.
This was not Izril, where the Assassin’s Guild was known and feared. A Face of Chandrar meant that whomever they were upon died. Royalty or Named-rank adventurers.
“The Jester has come for the Scourge of Roshal! A Face has revealed itself!”
The words were being screamed across the Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s broadcast, and only Chandrarians felt that chill of horror. The other continents had to have it explained.
There was no one who could stop it, though. Merr the Storm was riding towards the city of Halqued, but she was hours away at best. Any other help…too far.
Even Leonardo and Kusal. They were running as fast as they could, but they’d get to the building in, what, ten minutes? They had to get past the crowds, the soldiers.
Ten minutes…
It would all be over in ten minutes.
It might be over in the next second.
 
——
 
His father’s words came back to him. He could see the man staring down at him with that strained…patience. He was a boy again, limbs shaking, trying to rise to the impossible standard that the man held for everything.
You are barely fast enough. She’s still faster. You can’t hurt her; your blade scarcely scratches her flesh, and her guard is too good. Her offense—
He saw Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer laughing at him as he tried to cut at the regenerating body. He was facing the Hero of Zethe, fumbling for an attack he didn’t have.
Pisces wished his life would stop flashing before his eyes. But the visions came in between the sparks of light of their blades touching.
—Sparks. His rapier was being destroyed. Each time he blocked or they locked blades, the steel was torn away or the bone became splinters of dust. Too strong. Not as strong as Yvlon, maybe, but faster than Colthei with her Skill active. As nimble as Saliss.
A Gold-bell [Duelist]. Her silly attire, her class, everything was to hide the beast of combat lunging for his throat.
The only thing that saved him was—Lareceina. She swivelled, flicking her compressed spells at the Jester’s back as they fought, Pisces [Flash Stepping] backwards, reliving his duel in the Trial of Shields—only worse. But it forced the Jester to cut the magic apart.
Twice, he thought she guessed Lareceina wouldn’t risk hitting them. Both times, the detonation of magic caught both of them and sent them stumbling away, or—in the case of a black marble—drained of energy for a second.
It felt like both times the Jester had been hit worse than Pisces. Her skin was tough, but he doubted she was like Yvlon, a pure [Warrior]. So it kept him alive for forty-three seconds.
Then she activated one of her Skills as he reset. Lareceina was panting at him.
“She keeps cutting them apart. I have to detonate before they reach her—but she just dodges the explosions.”
“She’s too fast. Just give me an opening. I have to hit her with a Tier 4 spell.”
His blade alone had left two more cuts on her cheek and belly; he hadn’t even broken the clothed legging armor. Accordingly, she’d cut him four times across the stomach with a Skill, but her blades hadn’t pierced Stalker’s underarmor. A fact that she was not happy about.
She kept trying to get at Lareceina. But the [Compression Magus] had lobbed down more marbles, and the occasional dagger that the Jester tossed at her would meet a marble in midair, and the explosion would knock the projectile aside. They were stalemating her…for as long as Lareceina’s stored magic lasted.
Pisces guessed the [Mage] could fight about a minute longer like this. He also guessed that the Jester was about to do something to deal with his armor. She was breathing in, slowly and levelly, not even perspiring hard. He was sweating buckets…
[Bound Spell: Spear of Light]. He put the magic in the tip of his rapier. He’d get one attack before needing a moment to recast the spell, but if they did enough damage…
She’ll have a healing potion too. Can’t let her use it. Once we have an opening, we pour on the attacks. Don’t bother re-binding. Don’t let her drink it. Slash her eyes, and if I can have Lareceina hit her full-on—
He had to end this. Because she was a master and all his tricks, the luck, Lareceina? That had carried him three minutes into the fight. Now she had his number. She knew how he fought and proved it. The Jester waited for Pisces to lunge—she swept his rapier aside. Stabbed.
He twisted, dodging the counter, backstepping. She beckoned. He [Flash Stepped] left—
Explosions as Lareceina threw three marbles. The Jester moved out of range of the magic, grimacing. She blocked a cut at her neck, slashed across his stomach. Frowned at the broken bone buckler he’d used to shield himself.
Now. [Quick Reset]. [Manacharged Reflexes]! [Impaling Thrust]!
Pisces returned to his guard position and lunged again, all in a blur. She had to dodge that. She twirled out of the way with a Skill, and he saw Lareceina flicking another marble into the Jester’s path. Light magic. Webs of light. Yes! Pisces was turning to catch the Jester in the gap when she spoke.
“[Premature Activation].”
His rapier—fired the bound spell. A spear of light flashed across the club, hit the far wall, and Pisces jerked. He backstepped, slashing at the air, and the Jester tore free of the strings of light that had held her a moment.
“Don’t worry, it happens to everyone. What a silly Skill, huh?”
She posed coquettishly, and his stomach dropped. She could just—then her right hand came up. Her dagger flashed at his face, and he went to block it. Then he saw the dagger was—trembling—
The blow nearly jolted his rapier from his hands when he tried to parry it. It went past his guard and tore open his cheek. Hit his teeth. Pisces’ head rang, and he backed up, saw the second blade come at him, and—
“Pisces! [Empowered Spell]!”
Lareceina’s magic knocked him backwards. He stumbled, and the Jester was shaking off black soot on her skin. She gritted her teeth; the magic had burnt her skin black. But then she turned to him and smiled. He stared down at the broken rapier in his right hand.
Shattered from two failed parries. What…what…?
“[Vibration Touch]. Very popular as well.”
She winked at him. Pisces started laughing. He was wheezing, blood and saliva running from his open cheek and down his jaw. Lareceina was staring at him in horror.
“Go ahead, tell me they’re stupid Skills. I don’t mind.”
“You’re…a Gold-bell Duelist. The finest in the world.”
He saw her pause, grimace faintly, then smile.
“Place of honor, [Necromancer].”
She came at him a second time, and now, he saw it. An attack he couldn’t parry. The stupid-sounding Skill made her daggers blur, vibrating at a speed he couldn’t imagine. A silly trick? How were you supposed to block that?
It could literally saw through anything that it met; let alone trying to parry the blade. But he did his best.
The Jester was not prepared for him to knock the first dagger down. He backstepped again, and she shook her head.
[Rapier: Boneclad Enchantment]. Ivory grew along Pisces’ broken rapier. A gift from his duel at the Trial of Shields. He wouldn’t lose his blade again. Nor had it broken this time, though his hand was ringing.
The Jester frowned. Her casual posture stiffened for a moment. She’d been looking to kill him when his blade was broken. She exhaled in annoyance.
“Nice trick. Plans just don’t work with you, do they?”
Pisces gazed down at the lunar sheen on the edge of the rapier. He lifted it, and the Stellar Ivory shone in the dark club. He cut through the haze with it and knew it was making her wary again.
But it was just…strong. Maybe a bit lighter than regular bone. Conductive for magic. Nothing more.
[Premature Activation]. The [Arc of Midnight] struck the ceiling as she closed. Pisces was gasping as his back slammed into a hard door, and her daggers struck the wood, bouncing off as she snarled. He called out as he kicked at the Jester, swinging his sword.
“Lareceina, run.”
He wasn’t going to make it.
 
——
 
Ceria: I thought those idiots could do an escort mission without us making it worse. We can’t make it there in time. We see the fight. I’m watching. Hey, you’re not going to die, right? I can’t lose you too.
 
He was drinking a potion as he watched the liquid run out of his stomach lining. Six holes which closed…another Skill.
The final bloom of magic faded as Lareceina stopped screaming. The Jester’s knife was nailing her against the bar. She hung there, pinned by both shoulders, and the Face turned.
So cautious. She’d rather finish Lareceina then take him out. The Jester stopped and flipped up a dagger.
“[Weapon Art: Daggerstorm].”
She hurled them as the ground and walls of the building exploded around him. Pisces put up a [Bone Wall] and braced; he was lying behind the door after she’d gutted him. He saw daylight; she’d taken out a wall. The building he’d reanimated was dying again. Death magic, the structure groaning and spasming.
He got up; somehow, he’d survived the attack. She flicked into position as he turned. Slashed across his chest, and again, she tore Stalker’s armor and his flesh beneath. She was figuring out how to go through the armor.
Vibrating blades. Bones shuddering. Just ripped the skin off from contact—
She was coming for the kill.
[Weapon Art: Hammer Goes Through You]. The long dirks hit him as he tried to [Flash Step] and cracked his patella as they slammed him into the wall. The second one hit Stalker’s armor and would have snapped a rib but for the magic he was pouring into—
Stabbing. His rapier came up, and he pivoted. A glowing tail lashed the ground as he parried her blade into the floorboards. She staggered as he broke her Skill.
[Joveln’s Parry].
[Deathbolt].
He hit her once in the chest, and she backflipped the second and dodged the third, falling back. Pisces staggered upright, reached for a potion, and found nothing at his side.
The Jester was gone, and his bag of holding was spilling everywhere.
Bones. Nekhret’s bones and ordinary ones and possessions. Beach sand and coins, even a sandwich. He struck at her from the other side.
Illusion. He’d been pointing a finger the other way, and she parried the [Deathbolt]. Kicked him into the door and maybe broke something. He bounced off.
He couldn’t parry those blades. Pisces was panting.
“Arise.”
She flicked a dagger through the head of the first Skeleton Champion that arose. Cut another one in half and came at him—her blades weren’t vibrat—
Electricity coursed through him, and he was reeling again. But again, she backstepped. Went to hack down the undead.
“I don’t like that look in your eyes. Got any better last words? For the story.”
“When I think it’s time.”
His mouth was the only part of him still moving right. Something…Lareceina was trying to shift, but she’d been hit with poison or something. Paralysis. The Jester’s blades began to vibrate again, and liquid sprayed off them. Ah, that’s why she didn’t use poison all the time.
If only he could just block her or had one of Lareceina’s marbles. Pisces saw her feint forwards, then spring sideways like a cat. He saw her, but—his rapier was sent flying by the first blow. Out of position. The second darted for his throat.
The explosion of sound and air made Lareceina’s lolling head jolt upright. She heard a cry. A shout of pain and fury and saw a spinning body—the Jester was pulling back. But Pisces twisted the blade and ripped it out of her side in a spray of blood, and Lareceina’s eyes opened wide.
How—?
He was holding his left hand out. The Jester had been about to strike him, then something had happened. She was backing up, cursing. She threw daggers at Pisces, unenchanted—her Skills must have run out. He parried one, two—then saw a trio coming at him and raised his hand.
Now, Lareceina saw it. She would have known it anywhere because it was her trick. Just mana. Mana compressing around his hand, then exploding outwards.
Like her orb, but without the binding spells. He just—forced the mana out around his hand. A burst, a shockwave that knocked the daggers down.
That’s how he’d stopped her dirks. Vibrations or not—he’d parried her with his free hand. Then run her through. She was checking her side. He’d hit the right side of her stomach, just below the belly button, and torn a bloody gash out.
“Chandler’s Rebuke.”
That was all she said. Then she exhaled and saluted him with one blade. Smiling, almost as if it were worth the pain and blood to see it done. He was smiling too until he saw the red threads.
The blood running down the Jester’s side and onto her legs reversed course. They drifted upwards until they became thin threads. Even needles, which stabbed into the Jester’s skin. Laced her broken cloth-flesh together. She didn’t even reach for a healing potion. Just sighed.
“[Stitch Up The Puppet]. I am a masterpiece.”
“That’s not fair.”
Lareceina wasn’t sure if she managed to get the words out. Pisces set himself, and his smile faded. She walked forwards again, blades raised, vibrating, watching him now.
Now he could parry her.
They cut at each other, dancing back and forth in the little stage at the center of the dying nightclub. Bones rattling aside as his blood splattered the table, the ground. She dodged a slash, pulled back as his hand splayed outwards, deflecting—
Refused to strike. Kicked his shin with a dagger in her boot. Came closer, trying for a headbutt—leaned out of a [Deathbolt] fired towards her face.
A slash that nearly took his robes apart, marking his armor. Red gash on her arm, already being re-sewn. They checked themselves and met again.
She let him cut her throat, blood running from the wound until it closed, to plant a dagger under one armpit. He staggered back again. Grinning. He was rasping.
“Is this a bad time to tell you I have a second form?”
The Jester—paused. She had been sweeping in at him from the side, but now she tilted her head, genuinely confused. She must have had a truth Skill of some kind. She hesitated. Wary. That was the one thing he had on her. Her eyes flickered as she smiled.
“Go ahead. I would have used it a few minutes ago.”
His eyes were still locked on her blades. He mumbled as dark blood poured down his side, soaking the robes as they lost their magic.
“Free me from this world’s mortal coil and you can meet him. I fear him.”
She said nothing. Just—lunged. With blades that elongated.
[The Duelist Lunges]. A fencer’s lunge, so fast and incisive it made his seem barely adequate. But he knew she was that good. He was sidestepping, waiting for the next blow—
She slammed into a door as her blade skidded and bounced off it. He missed a cut for her neck, surprised. A pratfall? A—
The Jester slashed wildly at him, backflipped, and stopped. She frowned at Pisces and glanced right. At the door.
He wavered. Flicked his eyes at the door as well.
The door standing in the center of the performance area of The Djinni’s Hour. Untouched by the utter destruction around it. Or the Jester’s blade. It had a strange handle. It was familiar, even though he’d never seen it before. The [Necromancer] knew it. He gazed at the door. The Jester saw him smile.
Then they were fighting, her stabbing around one edge of the door, trying to break through it—
He fired a [Deathbolt] around the door and ducked as she flipped over it, stabbing down with the boot-daggers. She flipped back over as he slashed upwards.
Landed. Pisces dodged a slash as she riposted. Both their blades glanced off the wooden frame as they snarled at each other.
Blood in one of her eyes. Red footprints tracing around the door.
Separation. Lareceina pulled one of the daggers out of her shoulder, but her arm hung limp. She wanted to cry. To apologize to Pisces.
All her magic, all her spells and she’d only hit the Jester directly once. Just once. It wasn’t going to save him. She saw Pisces leaning against the door. But he didn’t reach for the handle. She was waiting for him to bleed more. The slightest sheen of sweat on her skin. He beckoned her weakly.
“Would you just finish this? I have an appointment after this.”
She watched blood drip down onto the floor as the Jester swung her blades up.
“You might miss it.”
Pisces chuckled.
“Don’t worry. She’ll see me one way or another.”
He drew himself up slowly, and Lareceina tried not to let the world blur over. She blinked the tears out of her eyes to watch the end of his duel.
 
——
 
He was out of tricks. Even Lareceina’s technique hadn’t swung the odds. Not against her. Pisces was relieved, though. He just had to do his best. Then he’d…
Let his [Innkeeper] down. Make her cry. He tried to push himself up a bit more. Think of something. But what?
There was death magic around him. He’d spent his mana on this building that reeked of undeath, but the Jester wasn’t letting him animate anything. He could parry her—so what? That just put them on equal footing.
Still too fast. Still can’t hurt her enough. It reminded him of a grinning Djinni with a cat’s face.
…Yes. She was cautious. He began to pull mana into his hands. It had almost worked last time. Almost…almost…
The Jester hesitated. She tried to intercept him, sprang forwards as he concentrated. Two slashes. A blow that knocked him backwards, skidding. But he didn’t lose focus.
All the mana he had left in his hands. For a spell.
He didn’t know the spell. It was directionless. Useless. So cold. The antithesis of life. So concentrated, now, that even he couldn’t carry it.
“Pisces. Your hands.”
Lareceina warned him, and he gazed down. That was why the Jester was waiting, again. He saw some of his skin just…peel away. Flesh cracking, turning white, then developing black lines.
It was killing him. He sighed, and the Jester waited. She didn’t want him to touch her. He glanced at the door.
“One second, Erin.”
He took a step—and his heart stopped. A cold hand was grasping it, and the death magic was trying to overwhelm, reanimate—
The [Necromancer] gasped. He had to hold it. Had to, but he was dying. No receptacle. Nothing but his bare hands and…
He looked at his right hand, and the gleaming blade of Stellar Ivory glinted. Pisces gazed at it, then smiled—and forced the magic up the hilt.
“There.”
That’s what he had been trying to do.
His unenchanted rapier was almost all bone, now. Magical bone, but that was all. Perfect for little except storing the one thing that belonged there.
Death magic. He concentrated it until it was running along the blade he knew so well. Infused into every part of it. All the mana he had left. All of the magic in this building he could draw on until it was like a Death’s Door, but better.
A wound into the living world. A little sliver to something that lay beyond. Pisces lifted the rapier, and he heard an oath.
The Jester gazed at the [Necromancer], and he held an enchantment she had never seen before. She had memorized every single one in the Assassin’s Guild’s annals. But they had fewer records on rare classes. Like [Necromancers].
She had to stop him. The Jester cartwheeled forwards, rotating, building speed with each rotation. [Performance: The Comedian’s Death].
Flip and twist in the air. He saw her coming, but he was so focused on the blade, and she was falling, blades twirling, a grin she didn’t feel on her lips. So focused she didn’t see the marble stuck to her pant legs turn white-hot until it exploded—
The detonation would have blown a leg off if the Jester hadn’t sensed the motion and performed an [Aerial Flip] to mitigate the blast. Her skin was still burnt, her costume blown to pieces. She stumbled, half-turned.
The [Mage]. She should have killed her, not marked her for the Naga. Rage was in the Jester’s being, and she raised her daggers to throw, then twisted around and set herself. She exhaled.
Too late.
The blade had changed colors. It still glowed, but instead of the pale ivory, it was…black. The color was black, but it was still bright. The magical color was coating the rapier, like an aura, an enchantment that hurt the eyes.
He let it rest along the floor, as if holding it were heavy, and she saw the floorboards change colors. Where the tip of his blade met the wood, it turned grey. Dusty. Rotten. As if he were killing…
The wood itself. She gritted her teeth.
This is why she had tried to take him by surprise. Why adventurers were hardest.
Counter-levelling. She drew herself up and saw him gazing at that door again. He was drawing strength from it.
“One last dance, [Necromancer]? Now we have a proper duel. To the death, then.”
She licked her lips, watching that blade. She couldn’t let him touch her with it. The bones scattered around them were rattling. Pieces of Stellar Ivory swirling around, as if the sword was reanimating everything.
He was all but dead. Just kill him—he grinned at her, and his eyes were gleaming.
“Death is not the end, Jester. Let me show you.”
His rapier rose, and a little bell of a color she didn’t know hung from the hilt. It made her feel like she wasn’t a master, but an apprentice still on a great journey. Now, it rang.
The Jester listened to it as it rang across the waiting city. Such a beautiful sound. She sighed, then bowed, the fool, the joker with pranks played upon her head by fate. Then she advanced.
 
——
 
Two blades versus one. They stabbed, trying to take him from either side, but a burst of mana forced her back a step. The deathly blade swung over her head, and she ducked it. Unwilling to merely lean out of the way.
He came forwards, a stumbling pirouette, spinning and cutting. She went to punish the opening, her leg kicking up with that hidden dagger in her boots.
A tiny marble exploded, and she jerked back. It hadn’t even gotten near her. Lareceina had flicked it with paralyzed fingers, but it let Pisces press the Jester back. She did a handspring, slashed as she backflipped.
His [Flash Step] carried him into a lunge as she landed. She nearly beheaded him with a sweep of her daggers. He pulled his head back, and she was walking along the counter of the bar. Blocking his rapier with her vibrating blades and kicking glasses at his face. One of her boot-daggers—
She leapt off the counter, and they were fighting along the walls. He kicked a chair at her. She jumped on top of it, kicked him in the face, and was gone. Landed, and he rushed her. Locked blades and felt the rapier sucking at her energy as it drew too close to her skin. Shoved him back, snarling.
He was bleeding from multiple deep wounds, but he was fighting without regard for his reserves. She just had to hold out, wait for the last stand to finish. He couldn’t keep that enchantment up forever.
His face was a mask of concentration and blood. Smiling at her. Not even cursing her for refusing to risk a final clash. Too much respect.
She performed another [Fool’s Dodge], cartwheeling out of a lunge. Hopped back, grasping a dagger with the toes on her right foot. Back against the wall, waiting for him to—
An arm locked around the Jester’s throat and she stabbed backwards, wildly. The [Mage]? Her team? That damn [Prince]? How—
Her blades stabbed into the wall of the nightclub. The Jester felt nothing, but the [Necromancer]—
Ran her through the chest. Then she felt the cold blade sucking her life away. She screamed—ripped herself off the blade, and was stumbling away. He had been staring at the person who’d grabbed her. But who…
She swung back as her Skill tried to knit her flesh, yet she was suddenly slower. Weaker. No potion could heal…again, she put her back to the w—
The arm grabbed for her again, and she spun. Daggers raised. She stared down at the figure who’d caught her by the waist.
A face made of bone. But not a skeleton’s skull. Someone had carved features out of bone. Stellar Ivory that was so finely detailed you could see her short-cropped hair moving. It would have been brown in real life, but this undead was colorless. Mischievous, hazel green flames stared out of carved eyes above smiling lips.
A Human’s face. An [Innkeeper]’s wrought in ivory. Like Venitra, a woman of bone. No…Pisces had never laid eyes on Az’kerash’s Chosen.
This was like Cognita. A woman, but half-formed. Only her upper torso and face were even visible, and they were incomplete. There was not enough Stellar Ivory to animate her, so the pieces ended abruptly, like a jigsaw puzzle. What was there was still…
The undead woman was holding the Jester. She had risen out of the floorboards and grabbed the Jester around the waist. Even now, the floorboards were adhering to her body. Melding upwards, as if she and the floor were one thing.
An undead? The Jester had never seen—the Assassin’s Guild didn’t study—
Her daggers stabbed the fake-Erin’s face, but the bones merely cracked. The undead sank back into the floorboards as the Jester slashed wildly, dodging the [Necromancer] from the side. Then the Jester was leaping, head whirling—
The floor again. Hands reached out, and she stomped, but despite breaking the bones, they just came again as she leapt. This time, the Jester leapt onto a table. That had to be s—
A hand tried to grab her, and she saw the undead rising from the table as the Jester dove again. Instead of following, the undead grabbed a chair and hurled it. Then she was sinking again.
Like a Sandworm or a shark. This entire damn building was her hunting ground. She was melding with the walls. The Jester knew this trick. But that face—
The undead had that face the Jester recognized from the Naga’s files.
“This is your undead?”
She whirled, trying to sneer at him, and the [Necromancer] was looking around. Tracing something only he could see. He’d re-animated the building. She’d thought it was a great opening. A pointless use of mana…fool!
She’d halted for too long. A hand rose, and she was too slow. Again, the undead innkeeper rose, her body already mended. She was holding the Jester’s legs, still smiling. But that glittering flame was colder than any other undead’s the Jester had met.
Other undead just want to kill you. I know why you should die. It’s personal.
The Jester slashed that face, tore free with all the Galas muscle she had. It was just a moment’s opening.
All he needed, of course.
The Scourge stabbed her through the shoulder. Her arm went dead as she slashed at his chest and swept one blade down to free herself. She hopped away on her remaining foot. Fumbling for a spare arm and foot.
A scarecrow of a woman, strings trailing, stuffing coming out of her. The [Necromancer] lunged at her, seeking to end the fight.
She tossed her arm at him and grinned as his eyes widened, and he tried to st—
The explosion knocked them both flat. She did a pratfall and came up, hoping…no. His damn skeleton had pulled him out of the way. Damn armor; he might have broken a rib or two, but her trapped arm hadn’t killed him. And she was…
The Jester eyed the undead skeleton sinking into the floorboards as the Scourge got to his feet. She nodded tightly, then gritted her teeth. She crunched the upper right molar in her mouth and rasped.
“Jester requesting emergency teleport. Right now.”
She heard a muted affirmative as she whirled, teeth bared. She was slow, one-armed. She wasn’t going to make it…
He was leaning on someone supporting him. The smiling undead wearing the [Innkeeper]’s face. Pisces’ blade of undeath was aimed at her, but he had paused.
“Where is it?”
“Take them from me. One bell’s yours.”
She gestured at the golden bells hanging from her, but he was just searching her.
“No. Where’s…your collar?”
He searched her bare neck, her wrists and leggings, and she blinked at him. Then started giggling. She wheezed, leaning on the table, laughing.
“Boy, they don’t leave it where you can break it. It’s right here.”
She tapped her heart. His eyes found hers, and she shook her head. He raised the rapier, and she felt distant magic take hold of her. A second’s teleportation for a Face.
Too slow. She waited in that moment as the rapier shone and saw his center of gravity lower. Lower…until the strange undead laid him down on the floor. Then the rapier stopped glowing, and he lay face-first on the ground.
The Jester ran at him, laughing, blade stabbing, and vanished in a spiral of glowing motes of light.
 
——
 
[Class Change: Duelist of Wistram → Master Duelist: Blade of Death!]
[Master Duelist: Blade of Death Level 24!]
 
[Synergy Spell – Enchantment: Death’s Blade Learned!]
[Spell – Mana Burst Parry Learned!]
[Skill – Sword Art: Leaves Scattering Upon a Pond Obtained!]
[Skill – Seduction Counter Obtained!]
[Skill – Mithril Bootdagger Kick Obtained!]
[Spell School – Tivmithe’s Flash Magic: Greater Proficiency Obtained!]
[Spell – Flash Leap Learned!]
[Spell – Flash Lunge Learned!]
[Spell…]
 
<Title – A Face of the Assassin’s Guild, Unmasked: Defier of Hidden Blades Assigned!>
<Title Reward – Golden Fencer’s Bell of Detoxification Granted!>
 
The gold bell dinged off Pisces’ head. Which told him he’d only passed out for a second. Just long enough to gain his levels—and for Lareceina to pour a healing potion on top of him.
She was lying on the floor when he raised his head.
“Paralysis. Sucks. You alive? Please be, I’m too emotionally invested in you for you to die right now.”
“How’re you moving?”
He thought she should have been completely helpless given the Jester paralyzing her. Which he’d assumed was for her to take Lareceina as a [Slave] or something. So the Jester was a [Slave]. He’d thought she must be.
Her heart. He should have killed her. He knew that. But he’d realized she was a [Slave], and he couldn’t do it. Just like Wildcard. It was his weakness, Pisces guessed.
Lareceina spoke to the ceiling of the ruined nightclub, which began to crumble inwards. A piece slammed down a dozen feet away. Neither adventurer moved.
“Mana. Forced it through my body and moved it like a puppet. Can’t move well, and it hurts.”
Wham. Another piece fell, and Pisces tried to sit up.
“Dying when masonry hits us would be a terrible way to go.”
“Haha. Yeah.”
Neither one moved. Pisces was healing sluggishly, but the potions he’d looted from Roshal had saved him. He’d taken a few truly deadly wounds in the battle; the armpit stab had been the worst, but he might have saved himself by using death magic on himself. It had slowed the rate he was bleeding out.
He gazed at his hands; there were still faint scar lines from the death mana he’d held. Might be permanent. It beat Yvlon’s hands, or Ceria’s, so he put it out of his mind.
A piece of wood came spiraling down from the ceiling and hit the little wall of floorboards that Bone-Erin conjured to shield Pisces and Lareceina. Both Gold-rank adventurers felt splinters of wood land on them. Lareceina sat up.
“Er—maybe we should cast a barrier.”
“Right. We could leave, but if the Jester had accomplices…”
Pisces was glancing around. He had something to do. Lareceina kept staring at the undead-Erin.
“Is this your newest undead?”
“Sort of. I didn’t know—that is to say, she’s incomplete.”
The Stellar Ivory that made up the undead’s face was incomplete. But she could sink into the floorboards and manipulate buildings he’d animated with death magic. That was…
Very scary if she were a rogue undead. Pisces shuddered to imagine an undead capable of shifting into the walls and ambushing you. He coughed.
“She, um, she looks like—”
“The [Innkeeper]. Whom you’re in love with? I don’t know if she’d appreciate this…”
Lareceina waved a hand, and Pisces hesitated.
“It’s not romantic. Platonic—it was an unconscious thing! I didn’t expect it. And I…I was doing everything I could in that fight. All the bits and pieces. Lareceina, thank you. Without you, I’d have been—and the [Mana Burst Parry] and [Death’s Blade] spell were because I was thinking about your techniques!”
She blinked at him.
“Is that what the spells are called?”
“Yes, they are. I imagine you could do the parry technique yourself.”
She nodded slowly, eyes lighting up.
“It looks easy enough, but the timing could get you killed. I can’t believe we survived.”
“She was a cautious Face. I think she wanted to bait out every attack I had and was wary about me having something else. I also wonder if she wanted me alive, for all her talk.”
Pisces rubbed at his armpit as he conjured a little dome of bones for them to hide under. Lareceina shuddered.
“That would explain it. Although she might have just been psyched out.”
“By what? Me being a [Necromancer]?”
“No, your face.”
“…What about it?”
The [Compression Magus] opened her mouth, peered at Pisces, then turned her head.
“If you don’t understand, I don’t feel like explaining it right now. I sense you won’t get it. One question: what was that door that appeared mid-fight?”
The door. Pisces pushed himself up slowly, and it was still there. He walked towards it.
“That’s…I think it’s her. I need to answer it. I’ll be back. Just pretend I’m hiding if I—”
It was her. He knew it. He turned back.
“Lareceina? Thank you, I owe you my life. I will repay you, but I just have to—”
She was brushing at her face, shaking her head.
“I think you’d have been…well, maybe I did save your life, but I didn’t feel very useful in that fight. I need to brush up on my close-combat techniques. Kusal and Leo would have made that a lot easier. Go do what you have to. If that is Erin Solstice, you have to see the person you’re in love with. Just don’t leave me to clean up all this mess or the royalty might actually execute me. You’re lucky I like you; I’d have left your Captain behind in a heartbeat.”
She sat back with a groan in the inside of the little shelter, and Pisces hesitated. The bones of Nekhret and his possessions were scattered across the entire damn place—what hadn’t been vaporized in the fight. Yet somehow…he knew that the door wouldn’t take long.
Just a second, really. How he knew it, he wasn’t sure, but he trusted the door. He began to nod, scratched at the back of his neck, and hesitated.
Hm? It was an odd feeling. Almost like he was on the practice courts, but entirely mental. Pisces frowned, then tried it anyways.
“Well, I, ah, don’t know if I want to fight a second Face ever again, Lareceina. But I would, for you. I shudder to imagine what I’ll have to do for a favor since I owe you far more.”
She blinked at him, and he blinked at her. Then he closed his mouth.
Was that a [Seduction Counter]—?
Pisces strode over to the door, opened it, paused a second, then vanished. Lareceina stayed where she was, then laid back down on the floor. Then she began kicking around in a circle.
How he had picked up on that? She hadn’t even been obvious about her feelings! Did he mean—? Well, obviously she liked him. Who wouldn’t admire someone with his principles?
She was not prepared for Pisces to come out the door a second later. But that moment…
To him, it was still occurring in a place only two people existed.
 
——
 
It did feel like a dream. As if he had died and this were just…a pleasant way of letting him down. One moment, he was levelling, the next, he was walking through the void on a path of cobblestones towards a building suspended in the middle of nowhere.
With the woman he most wanted to talk to waiting for him.
It wasn’t love, at least, the kind that he thought many people assumed it was. Pisces was no expert on love. He felt like he’d mostly peaked in Wistram on that front, to be honest. He’d been his most popular then, and after that, it had been far less easy to get to know people.
Your average [Necromancer] tended to be male, at least, the kind you found in cabals, and regardless, they weren’t all that fun to be around sometimes. Pisces could also admit he hadn’t been at his best back then. Hygiene, always an issue…
Why was he thinking about that? He’d just fought a Face—
But he was somehow more nervous than then. Because…he kept slowing to peer at her. It was her, wasn’t it? Was she the same woman who was in Baleros? She looked…
Different.
She felt it. This new place, well, that suited her. If Erin Solstice had sailed across Nerrhavia’s Fallen on a ship christened ‘The Wandering Ship’, Pisces Jealnet would have blinked for about five seconds, then gotten on board and asked her if she now served adequate seafood.
He would believe anything of her. Just as Ceria had once said—they were her team. His life had changed when he’d met her in that inn, long ago. He was just worried he’d disappoint her.
She was gazing at him like he was a stranger too. He halted halfway up the gazebo’s steps and took in her discolored hair. The scars.
One look at Erin Solstice, the real Erin, and he saw how flawed and fake the skeleton he’d made of her was. That was just the [Innkeeper] in his heart. The one he remembered, longed to see, with a frying pan in hand when things were at their darkest.
The first one he’d met, who’d fed a hungry, lost [Necromancer] with no good reason other than he was hungry.
The last time he’d seen her…her face had been bruised and swollen. Magical paint and seawater clinging to her skin. A flaming pink hat on her head, eyes locked on the thing only she could see.
This Erin, the one who made him halt in his tracks, was the woman who’d survived that moment. No part of her wasn’t scarred.
Her hair wasn’t the same color. It was regrowing, but it had fallen out and was uneven on one side, reshorn so it was deliberate instead of…it was seared into different colors, white or multicolored in places. Magical contamination he’d only seen in textbooks in Wistram.
The same with her skin. Erin was noticeably thinner. It looked like someone had carved skin off her arms with a bloodless blade. Odd, puckered skin from more spell damage. But it was her wrists, her neck, that revealed the truest scars. Discolored skin burned dark. Collar and manacles.
He hadn’t seen it the last time. Now, Pisces reached for his rapier and almost turned around and left this place. Excused himself so he could walk over to Roshal and come back after…
Her expression stopped him. She was wearing strange clothing: a shirt that looked like it had been woven from a single blade of grass, but detailed, soft tufts of dandelion’s fuzz padding her elbows and shoulders. Leggings made of some dark chitin, like a bug’s.
A stranger he might have taken for some twisted, alternate version of Erin Solstice if they’d passed on the streets of Liscor. Missing the top of her right ear. But that hesitant expression became a smile when she saw him and they locked eyes.
It was wearier than he had ever remembered seeing on her face. A tired woman full of the fears she never cared to share. Uncertainty, oh, yes.
But it was still the same smile as the first one he’d earned from her. It felt like it gave Pisces more than he could return. A smile just for him, welcoming him into her home, wherever it was and however strange it got. That was how he knew it was her each and every time.
Pisces still wanted to go and set all her foes to flight. But he was tired, and there was a chair waiting for him across the chess table.
Too weak. Too weak, too far…he sat down across the chess board from her, adjusting his robes. Realizing they were almost torn off his body, revealing the scarred armor underneath.
“I, ah—hello, Erin. I’m sorry I’m a bit of a mess. And that I took a moment to reply. I was occupied.”
“The Pavilion said…what happened to you? You look like you’ve been in a war.”
Even her voice sounded different. Maybe a bit raspier, deeper. Or perhaps it wasn’t her bubbly cadence that held the real Erin. He drank in how she looked once more and then glanced back. Shrugged, because he’d almost forgotten the Jester.
“Just a continuation of the war you were in.”
He favored her with a slight smile, a self-depreciating quirk of the lips. She sat there, and then her face filled with guilt.
“Roshal?”
She knew it in a moment. And the guilty joy that had been on her face was extinguished so fast he tried to lie.
“N—”
No lies here. The rules had popped into his head as he’d entered. Pisces hesitated and chose his words carefully.
“It was purely my own affair. Nothing to do w…it was entirely selfish on…there were a lot of extenuating circumstances.”
He couldn’t tell those lies. Not to her. But she looked so guilty…Erin was shaking her head.
“Chandrar. Chandrar. I knew you were all there, but I’ve been too scared to use this Skill. This is the [Pavilion of Secrets], Pisces. You know the rules, but I could have—I’ve been guilty, and they tried to kill you, didn’t they? Are you okay?”
“I’ll be fine, Erin. I beat the Face they sent at me.”
“A Face?”
“…Only one.”
Lying was hard, and he was not mentally ready for this. Erin sat up, then sat back in her chair. She seemed…she rubbed at her chest.
“Sorry. I’ve been a bit sick. And distracted. Stupid stuff. I—you were the first person I thought of, after the inn. I took too long to contact you, and there was this thing with Garry.”
“Garry? Is he well?”
“…Yes? Now he is. He was dressing up as Santa and delivering bread to Drakes. Then they blew him up, but he survived, and—yeah.”
Pisces let that information roll off him. Solstice event. Then he tried to parse it and started grinning. Erin grew flustered.
“I’m very sorry, Pisces. I didn’t…I wasn’t thinking of you. I was asking the [Pavilion of Secrets] who was in the most mortal danger at that moment and it must have not been you at that time. He was, but then I developed tunnel vision, and I was fighting with Ulvama, and—your robes.”
She looked at him again, and he glanced down.
Ah, that was a lot of blood on them. The charm that meant they couldn’t get dirty had been shredded with the fabric. Pisces touched the robes and felt…a bit of a pang. Ryoka had bought them for him a long time ago. There were plenty of better robes he could have bought. But these had been his.
“It’s just clothing, Erin. I am fine. I didn’t even lose any digits, see?”
He hesitated, then tucked his hands under the table. Erin’s eyes were drawn downwards.
“I’m glad you didn’t lose your hands. What do they look like?”
“…Hands? They’re perfectly serviceable as far as I know, Erin.”
“Pisces, show me your hands.”
His damned mouth. When he showed her the cracked skin and damage from the death magic, she just exhaled. Pisces began to speak quickly.
“That was my own doing! You see, I was using death magic to create a powerful spell—it was pure improvisation, really. A powerful new attack. My most dangerous magic by far! It’ll revolutionize how I fight. Also where I need to fight from; I’ll need to be up front, but not even Colthei can insult me anymore. And my other spells and Skills—it’s a resounding victory. I chased a Face off and…and…”
“Roshal’s still after you. They won’t stop until they’ve got you, Pisces. I’m so, so sorry for not talking sooner.”
Her quiet voice, and the way she gazed at her own hands made Pisces reach out. He grabbed her arm, scattering chess pieces off the table.
“I—sorry. Erin, don’t blame yourself for this. This was my doing. I was just…killing [Slavers]. Raiding caravans. I did it with Merr and by myself. I raised hordes, and I slaughtered them. The only person who put my team and myself in such danger was me.”
She looked at him, bleak.
“But why did that happen, Pisces? Did they try something or…?”
He gazed past her and sat back in the chair. He was so tired, but he wouldn’t have closed his eyes for anything.
“I just…met a little girl they’d taken as a [Slave], Erin. I couldn’t stop myself. I tried to kill all of them because I couldn’t do anything less. Because of you and what they did to me and everyone else, yes. But they deserve it.”
His head bowed, and he sat there. Then he was filled with fear. But he had to say it. Honesty…Pisces looked up and gave Erin a wretched smile.
“Erin, I’m rather afraid I’ve become a monster. I—I’m sorry, because you put such faith in me. But of late, I don’t think I’m better than anyone else. I think I’ve stepped upon that dark path that all [Necromancers] seem fated to walk. Because I enjoyed killing the [Slavers]. It felt right.”
That was the thing he hadn’t said out loud. He’d realized it after a while. He had stepped off the cliff and was falling, and he couldn’t stop. He waited for her to pull away, tell him how disappointed she was, or just…
Erin blinked at Pisces, and the guilt burning behind her eyes turned to surprise. Then she studied him and, abruptly, threw her arms around him.
“You silly, smelly [Necromancer]. You could change a hundred thousand times and it’d always be you. C’mere.”
She tried to ruffle his hair, and he protested.
“Erin! Erin, I’m serious! Stop that.”
She was laughing all of a sudden! Laughing, and he feared she didn’t understand…then Erin stopped. She coughed, and he grew worried at the rattling in her lungs. But it was gone in a moment, and she wiped her mouth.
“Sorry. I still got a bit of that soul fracture stuff. Pisces…you’re the bravest, best guy I know. You just pretend really well you’re not, sometimes. And you killing evil people doesn’t change that.”
“But I’ve killed…”
“They keep [Slaves], Pisces. You and I have both seen what that is. They put me on a ship. They took you to Roshal. I’d kill them all, one-by-one, if I had to.”
Erin’s eyes were burning again. Not her hat. She leaned over the table, and she shook her head.
“You silly goober. ‘Look at me, I’m so evil for killing [Slavers]. Bleh, I’m a terrible person’!”
She made little devil horns on her head, and it was so silly that Pisces started laughing. Chuckling, then laughing as he hadn’t done since—since—
Since they’d sat in an inn and done this last time. Erin started laughing too.
“Hey, don’t make fun of me! I’m making fun of—listen, pal—ah, you dummy! Why hasn’t Ceria, Colth, or Yvlon told you how stupid you’re being?”
He stopped laughing abruptly.
“I got separated from them. And it’s…it’s not been perfect.”
Erin blinked at him, then leaned forwards. She gestured at the table, and he went to pick up the pieces that had fallen, but they were all arrayed nice and evenly in a moment. He went to move a pawn, but Erin just eyed the chess set, then brushed an arm across the table.
It all vanished. Then she stood, and the world changed.
For a moment, they sat in The Wandering Inn, and the common room smelled of Calescent’s food. It was cold—but the door to the beach garden was open. Pisces’ eyes widened, and his heart hurt. He half-rose…but then saw Erin’s face.
Regret, sadness, longing.
She banished it.
Then they were in the [Garden of Sanctuary], hers, staring up at the night sky full of stars. But that too vanished after a moment. Erin Solstice stood in the gazebo, the world flickering as she tried to find something…
And found nothing. The world vanished, even the gazebo, and then they stood in the void, a sea of infinity, and she sat down. Just sat on the ground. Pisces walked over and sat next to her. He pulled his knees up to his chest, and she murmured.
“Tell me, Pisces. Tell me how it’s been, please?”
So he closed his eyes, and because they had ages…
He told her.
 
——
 
The two sat there a long time. In the real world, another Pisces was doing things like collecting his possessions, continuing to heal, extricating himself and Lareceina from the crumbling nightclub, and rendering some explanations as her team raced over.
He pitied that Pisces. Because here was where he wanted to be.
“The Horns of Hammerad, fighting? Not in sync?”
Erin finished listening to his account of how things felt so…so bad. It was a relief for Pisces to tell her about his gripes with Ceria’s leadership, the way Colth was acting. And his own guilt for not always being with them. He waited for her to pass judgement, even if she found him in the wrong, but Erin just laughed softly.
“Some things never change.”
“What? Erin, it has not been pleasant. Without Ksmvr—and Vofea—we’ve been at each other’s throats. We nearly killed other adventurers. I went on my own because I couldn’t trust my team and—and Yvlon’s sick and—”
The [Innkeeper] just chuckled more and waved a hand. Little images flashed across the void, tiny as motes of light. Memories.
“Pisces. Do you remember when you guys formed a team after the crypt? You didn’t even have Ksmvr, I just suggested him last-minute. And you and Yvlon hated each other. Remember?”
“I…well, yes. But we worked things out.”
“Sure you did. And there were times you guys got along great. Right up until Yvlon nearly beat you all down because she was so mad. And Ceria’s circlet was going nuts, and—you guys always fight.”
“Not always.”
But he saw her point. There had been moments when he’d thought he’d quit this stupid adventuring team at the start. Wondered what he was doing and…Erin shook her head.
“Colth’s the new kid. He’s been on, what, one big adventure with you? Technically, there was the Stalker raid, but that was pretty short. It was just the Crossroads and the sea battle, really. This is your second long adventure. Of course he’s not fitting in. Low self-esteem issues, that guy.”
“Colth. Colthei. Are we talking about the same fellow? He’s always telling us what real Named-rankers do…”
“Well, yeah, Pisces. Don’t you think all of his senior friends from Larracel’s inn tell him that all the time?”
Pisces opened his mouth, and it was like Erin had levered his head open and inserted a shovelful of understanding. He closed it.
“—He does talk about the inn a lot. And I had observed how he told us stories of them treating him—”
Erin shook her head as she conjured an image of Larracel and her Haven.
“I wish I’d hung out with Larra more, but I feel like we’d have fought. Now? I think we could get along a bit better. I think if she realized how Colth was treated, she’d say he wasn’t being treated fair, Pisces. The guy was a [Slave], and he’s a [Supporter]; he was a kid when they were all Named-rank. They never really let him grow up around them. With you, he’s trying to be the adult, but all the ‘veterans’ sucked.”
“I hadn’t thought about it like that. There was this moment where he didn’t want me to talk with a [Trader] because he was worried she’d prey on me…”
“See? He’s trying to look out for you, and maybe it’s a good lesson, but he’s doing it wrong. Colth’s problem is that he’s good at lots of stuff.”
“…How is that a problem? I don’t follow.”
Again, Erin chuckled.
“It’s a problem because when he’s not good at something, I think he doesn’t realize it. He thinks he’s got to know it all. But you know what? If you guys said, ‘Colth, this is how it’s gotta be, back us up’, I think he might be happy. He’s a [Supporter], not a [Leader]. Sort of, y’know. In the class?”
She waggled her eyebrows at him, and Pisces opened his mouth to refute this Erin-logic…and then just laughed.
“I wish you’d called us all ages ago, Erin.”
He regretted saying that because it was true and it hurt her. She turned her head away.
“I’ve been selfish, Pisces. I was using this place to hurt myself at first. A lot of Skills, actually. Then I stayed away because I was afraid of how everyone would blame me.”
“For what?”
He had no idea what anyone could possibly blame Erin for. Being the target of an evil being’s attack? Getting kidnapped? Erin gazed at him, wide-eyed, then shook her head.
“You really are…hey, Pisces?”
“Yes, Erin?”
“Sorry.”
She leaned against his shoulder, staring into the distance. He couldn’t quite see her face, so he just held still.
“What do you need to apologize for?”
“I’m sorry because I’ve been having a great time in Baleros. I’ve been selfish and not talking to the people I should.”
He gazed down at her wrists. Scarred so badly. And her hair. And her arms which looked…Pisces whispered.
“A great time?”
“As much as I deserve. But you guys didn’t deserve that. You followed me and saved me when I was fighting at sea. You all nearly died, and I didn’t even ask about you for…I don’t know. Ksmvr and Vofea are still missing. Some [Innkeeper], huh?”
He tried to think of words to say.
“I…don’t blame you for that, Erin. You needed help. Vofea told us, so we went. It’s as simple as that. Even if you had known what was coming, if you’d asked, we’d have agreed. I know that. If you threw us into hell itself, you wouldn’t do it without a reason.”
She didn’t answer him. She was only silent, and he didn’t break the silence until she sniffed. Not like he did, haughtily. Just an intake of shuddering breath.
“I’m sorry. I was afraid you’d hate me. Or that you were hurt, and I’d never be able to forgive myself…”
“You were kidnapped by Roshal too, Erin. You survived. I only wish I’d come sooner. And look at you, you’re…”
Fine. He couldn’t say it. Erin glanced up at Pisces, then down at her wrists. She felt at her neck.
“I had a fight with Ulvama, Pisces. She’s with us…I’ve been a really terrible person a lot of the time. Selfish. I’m—I’m not okay, Pisces. I think I broke something on that ship. Or afterwards. Just like every time my friends die.”
He stared at his clenched fists. They were trembling. Pisces shook his head.
“They can’t break us. Not you, Erin. I’m—I’m the one who’s not better. I nearly got myself killed. My team is still in danger. I did it all for something I know won’t change…and I want to do it again. You say I’m not monstrous for killing them? I’d bathe in their blood, Erin. I could kill a thousand of them each day and sleep without problems. That may not be wrong, but it’s not ‘alright’. I’m afraid of what they might make me into.”
Someone who killed without a thought. He hadn’t ever wanted to take lives, but he had done it so easily—Erin glanced up at him, and she understood that, he thought. She brushed at her eyes.
“If you’re worried you’re evil, Pisces, then show me how evil you are. Show me the Necromancer in your heart, or someone as bad as Yazdil.”
He exhaled.
“I…well, I can’t. If it’s there—”
“You can show me any memory you want. Say something horrible, go on.”
“I can’t when you’re watching me.”
He protested, and she chuckled. Put out an arm and hugged him, surprisingly strong.
“Pisces. I have a thousand things to tell you. A thousand things to say. But after hearing what you’ve been doing, none of that is to say, ‘stop, you’re wrong’.”
“But I can’t be better than they are, Erin.”
He whispered it, and she frowned at him. Then pushed herself up. It seemed to take great effort, but then she was standing. He remembered when she’d been bound to a wheelchair. She even felt taller, but perhaps that was her level. Older…she stuck out a hand.
“I never said you couldn’t be angry, Pisces. You have more right to be angry than anyone. You’re allowed to hate them. If you think you’re turning evil or going too far…I can’t read your soul.”
You can’t? He just gazed up at her as she smiled down at him.
“…But I can do what I’ve always done. Which is watch you, Pisces. If you go too far, if I think you’re slipping, I’ll tell you. Until then? Arise, my necromancer.”
He gazed at her fingers, then took her hand, and she pulled him up. Erin patted Pisces on the shoulders.
“I wasn’t there for you. I’m still not. I’m lost on another continent, and it’s taking a long time for me to find my way back. I think…I’m figuring it out. But I promise I’m gonna come back home, Pisces. Maybe different. But when I do—I’ll be there for you again. Okay, Pisces?”
“You’ve been there every moment I needed you. I was just relieved we made it when we did. If only we’d been a bit faster.”
He gazed down at her, and she shook her head, exasperated, eyes shining—then she flicked the hair on his forehead back.
“I’m so dumb. I shouldn’t have worried. It’s easy to talk to you. Ceria, now, she might be weird if she’s actually cursed. But I’ll find the others. Each one. Ksmvr, Vofea…everyone. Just—”
She stared across the empty void.
“There’s so much going on, Pisces. And I can’t be there.”
He touched her arm.
“I don’t expect you to. This is enough.”
She started and shook her head reflexively.
“Don’t be stupid, Pisces. It’s not. I’m leaving you all behind while you’re fighting and dying. I can’t even save a silly [Baker]. I just hurt people around me—”
Her fingers dug into her flesh, and he stopped her as he shook his head. Then he turned and gestured to the door.
“Your door saved my life, Erin. When I saw it, I knew it was you. That got me through my duel.”
“It did? I thought it felt weird when I was waiting, but…”
Her head rose urgently, but Pisces just sniffed, then exhaled. He couldn’t even pretend with her anymore. He just rested a hand on her shoulder.
“That’s all we need, Erin. That’s all we’ve ever needed from you. A moment of encouragement, a drink, or some food when we’re tired. A place to rest. We don’t want you to solve every problem in our lives. We just keep coming back for those moments of wonder we can’t capture anywhere else.”
She shook her head, averting her gaze.
“I’m out of wonder, Pisces. Out of flames, and…I try not to charge you all for it, but the tab always ends up being everything. That’s what it costs to be one of my guests, my friends. I can’t repay it. You’re supposed to be my guests.”
The [Innkeeper] wanted to turn away, but he wouldn’t let her. The [Necromancer] clung to her, for support now, because he was so tired.
“How many of these things did you start? Did you start any war? Every monster, each time you call on us, it’s to save someone else. You never told us to do anything. I have always done what I wanted, Erin. You just…make it easier to be that better person. You may say you cannot help us, far as we are. But Erin, I’m tired. It’s been…a long few days.”
She looked up at him, and whatever he read in her, saw in her changed appearance, she seemed to take in an ocean of changes. She just nodded.
“I’m sorry, Pisces. I’m sorry I haven’t asked until now.”
“That’s quite alright, Erin. But if I may…may I lean on your shoulder a second? I just need to rest.”
She gazed at him, then straightened a bit.
“Yeah, sure.”
He did, lightly, and smiled. He felt then like he could keep standing for a long time.
“I have my team with me, some of them. And another team—a good one—I need to get back to. I am hardly alone. But Erin, if we have a moment, could you tell me about what you’ve been through? And I do have more to share, if you’ll listen.”
“Of course.”
After a bit, Pisces took a step into the empty infinity, and Erin walked with him. She supported his weight as Erin began to talk, and Pisces listened as she sketched out a world as seen through a Fraerling’s eyes, and he noticed how she lied, by omission or just her perspective. But he wouldn’t have interrupted her for anything.
In time, he was strong enough to walk on his own. That was all he needed. Just a moment.
Then it was his turn to tell her more. More and more until he wondered if the other Pisces was…
How long has passed, neither could have said. Erin eventually broke off.
“Darn. I’m the only person who has to spend time here. We could do this for ages. But Ulvama will be worried. And I’m, uh, hungry.”
Her stomach was rumbling. Pisces smiled.
“Why don’t you just call me later?”
“Why don’t I?”
She said it as if the thought hadn’t occurred to her, then a spark appeared in her hazel eyes, and she grinned.
“I will. You’ve gotta go back to doing your Pisces thing, right? The Scourge of Roshal rides again.”
He shook his head.
“That’s not me. It’s just an idea. It’s Bearig and Merr and everyone.”
“Sure it is, buddy.”
“I’m serious, Erin.”
“Okay, pal.”
He caught her arm as she walked him back to the door, and his heart hurt. His hand was trembling suddenly.
“Erin. I can’t even save one girl. I don’t deserve to be called anything. Even if…”
Even if there was an opportunity in the Jester’s attack on him. Erin’s eyes flicked to Pisces, and she saw it in him. She was, after all, far smarter than most people gave her credit for. Then her wondrous gaze twinkled, and for a moment, she laughed.
“Pisces, you made a promise. Not to her or me, but to yourself. If I were Roshal, I’d tremble. Well, actually, if I were Roshal, I’d kill myself. But you know what I mean.”
“I might be too late. I might fail.”
His entire body was shaking, now, with nerves. Back to fear. She turned, and like always, the [Innkeeper] watched one of her first guests wavering. So she gave him a little push. Just in a different way each time.
“You’ve got to try. So let’s make it official, Pisces.”
She closed her eyes. Then her lips moved—and she lifted something up in her hands. A glowing little scroll. She posted it into the side of the doorframe with a hammer and a glowing nail, and he heard it.
Toc.
Then she pushed at his back, laughing. Cackling, really. She flung the door open, and he heard her as she kicked him out of her inn. But he was running before his foot passed through the doorway, and he opened his eyes.
 
<Personal Heroic Quest — Save Her!>
Find Lleta, Pisces. Bring her to safety, no matter what it takes.
Optional Condition (Impossible): Save them all.
 
——
 
The television was abuzz with the latest. Pisces the Scourge attacked in a nightspot by a Face of Chandrar and…victorious?
No one had footage of the battle. The most you could see were explosions, parts of the nightclub blowing outwards, the animation spell before that—
Some eyewitnesses, but everyone had fled when the fighting had started. One Stitch-girl described being held captive and Pisces the Bane coming back in to save her—
Roshal’s Slaver Guild, unavailable for comment.
Ceria Springwalker, unavailable for comment.
Plenty of people available for comment. All of whom didn’t count, weren’t important, and who didn’t know anything.
Prince Weith was fighting with Princess Lithic to be on television as an exasperated Drassi tried to get anything useful out of them.
“—attacked under our royal protection! They shall regret that, Assassin’s Guild or not!”
“Right, right, but if you could move aside so I can see the club? I get it, you bravely ran away. Also, your kingdom tried to assassinate me, so shut up.”
With that, she leaned out of the scrying orb again. She dangled from her waist as everyone recoiled.
“Darn, I can only get this far out. Also, it only works on one person at a time. Excuse me! Pisces? Sneeze twice if you’re dead! Can anyone actually brave carry me up there for a look?”
The sight of a Drake half-leaning over her desk, tail suspended in the air, was a good sideshow. But everyone was waiting.
Alive meant a lot of things. How many limbs did he have? How much poison? And had he levelled?
About two hours had passed, and the only people who’d gone in were Wildcard; the [Soldiers] were keeping everyone else back, even the royals.
Well, the royalty were highly attached to their own heads, and if the Face were around…a second attempt when everyone had let their guards down was very likely, as Weith and Lithic well knew. But they’d been insulted, so they were preparing to castigate Drassi before heading up.
Sadly, they lost the momentum to Prince Yosoc, who arose, tossing his cloak out behind him.
“As I was sadly poisoned, I missed the fighting. But let it not be said that I, Prince Yosoc, hide behind [Reporters]. Miss Drassi, I should be delighted to give you a view of the fighting, even should the entire Assassin’s Guild fall upon my head!”
That bastard. He had the scrying orb and was ascending a [Light Bridge] spell before Weith and Lithic could move, and his bodyguards were fighting theirs as they tried to grab the orb from him. However, the floorshow gave way to a figure appearing in the ruined opening of The Djinni’s Hour. Everyone recoiled, and Yosoc held his cloak up like a shield…then paused.
Oh.
It was only Lareceina. She had blood on her robes, was filthy, and looked like someone had, well, collapsed half a building on top of her. She limped down the stairs with Kusal and Leo flanking her.
“Is that…the team the Horns fought? No, they were on guard duty. At least one of them earned their keep.”
Kusal and Leo were very unhappy by Drassi’s commentary, but she was taking no prisoners today. Nor slaves.
Lareceina halted midway down the [Light Bridge] and cast a simple [Loudness] spell. Without preamble, she called out.
“I am Lareceina of the Gold-rank team Wildcard. We have executed our task in defending Pisces Jealnet, known as the Scourge of Roshal—or possibly Bane—from a Face of the Assassin’s Guild. The Jester has fled after prolonged battle, and I hereby declare my contract fulfilled in good faith given what is about to happen next.”
Everyone stared at her. She was making sense, but not being the most helpful about actual details they wanted. Lareceina went on.
“Furthermore, I would like to take this moment to clarify that my team, Wildcard, are upstanding Gold-rank adventurers that neither endorse nor support Pisces the Bane’s attacks on Roshal. We took this contract purely out of monetary desire as well as a favor to the crown of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I personally disagree with any breaking of laws—”
At this point, Kusal and Leo rolled their eyes, and Drassi leaned forwards.
“Prince Yosoc? You wouldn’t happen to have a brick you could huck at her head, would you?”
He was obligingly hunting around for one when Lareceina broke off. She had insisted on maintaining her team’s good reputation, or at least, neutrality with everyone. Given how nasty a Face of the Assassin’s Guild was…even her teammates couldn’t really blame her.
Really, Pisces had to admire her too. Because Lareceina was an untruther on the level of Bird the Liar. No one was actively casting [Detect Truth] on her, so she was getting away with it. Drassi’s smile was fixed as she watched Lareceina, eyes flicking past her to the open club.
Good statements from Wildcard. If Pisces could have avoided a second attack from the Assassin’s Guild on him…well, he wouldn’t. But Wildcard weren’t ready to make an enemy of Roshal. They had to live here for the moment.
He had promised to go home with someone. But first…he had made another promise.
When he emerged in the opening above the street, everyone pointed. Lareceina kept talking for a bit, then Kusal nearly kicked her down the light bridge. She turned, and he stood there.
He could have changed clothing and freshened up in the two hours he’d had. But he’d felt, accurately, that this left more of a dramatic impression. And he’d been waiting to know what Erin said.
Now…the <Quest> was in his mind. He didn’t think she could see him. That was okay. He’d tell her in a bit. Or they’d record it.
“Pisces!”
Drassi broke the silence first. She had [Greater Resistance: Surprise]. Pisces nodded to her, but he began walking down the [Light Bridge] spell.
He still hurt all over. But Wildcard had helped patch him up a bit more and gathered all the damn bones. He hoped he hadn’t missed any. They’d done a bit of talking, waited to see if the Jester was coming back—he suspected she might have teleported all the way back to Lailight Scintillation, or a base at least.
She would return. But as Erin had alluded to, there was something Pisces had to do.
“Pisces, I’m glad you’re alive! You’re on television. Are you, uh…dying? Because we can get a [Healer]. Ancestors, he’s covered in blood.”
Drassi called out as Pisces did his best not to trip and fall face-first down the ramp. Which was a real possibility. New levels or not, he was exhausted.
“Yonder stands a true adventurer, one who has fought a Face of Chandrar! Better to fight a sandstorm of blades than to cross blades with one—and still he stands. I ask, is this a Gold-rank adventurer to fight a Face, whom all and sundry know is above Level 50? Or is this a Named-rank adventurer?”
He punched a fist into the air, still holding the brick, and he was pulling at the people on the street. They began to cheer. Yosoc was manufacturing a moment for Pisces.
It wasn’t even a bad one, and he did have social Skills. But Pisces interrupted the [Prince]’s flow by reaching Yosoc…and walking straight past him. Drassi half-turned, holding a microphone out.
“Er, Pisces? Pisces, Drassi here. Selys’ friend? C’mon, I served you drinks at—wait, is he doing that thing where he walks out and collapses? Does he have arrows in his back? No? Good, phew.”
He didn’t say anything. He didn’t turn. He just walked down the [Light Bridge], onto the street, and past Prince Weith and Lithic. They wanted to clap him on the shoulders, pose for the cameras…he strode past them. The people on the street began to jostle forwards—then pulled back.
Possibly because he’d just drawn his rapier. The blade was still made of Stellar Ivory, and it would remain that way. Unenchanted. After all, Pisces had just learned the only enchantment he needed.
An active enchantment. He walked towards the [Soldiers], who took one look at him and slammed to the side of the street. One of them shouted.
“If any [Assassin] is among us—kindly reveal yourselves, as we are but humble soldiers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and not part of a second bloodbath!”
‘Second bloodbath’ also worked to clear people away. Chandrarians were a very funny people, Pisces decided. Self-aware about stories.
He kept moving. He saw people parting in front of him, pointing, staring at his bloody armor…
“Pisces? Pisces. What’s going on? Is the Face around?”
Drassi appeared next to him as Prince Yosoc jogged to keep up. Pisces’ head was turning right and left. He hoped she was playing dumb. He hoped no one got it. But he didn’t know…
It was, in the end, a very technical thing he was counting on. Wording. He bet Ceria would get it and only hoped she could tell Yisame. The [Queen] was a savvy woman. But he supposed he had to say it to give her an excuse. So he turned and glanced at Drassi.
Her eyes were wide and full of worry. But there was also that strange expression there. Pride. She was looking at him like…it was embarrassing, so Pisces glanced past her. Down the street.
“Drassi. I was instructed by Queen Yisame to return to the capital. By the order of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, she gave me clear instructions. She forbade me from attacking any member of Roshal or anyone aligned with the Guild of Slavers. Any unprovoked attack would incur her personal wrath.”
“…Okay? And how do you feel about that, Pisces?”
The Drake stared at Pisces. He couldn’t tell if she was playing dumb; she was on camera. But maybe there was a twinkle in her eyes, suddenly.
Pisces just turned and kept moving. During the two hours he’d been gathering his strength, he had been making a crude plan of sorts. Very basic.
One of the things Wildcard had brought was a map. And he’d been staring at it for a while as Lareceina cast some [Message] spells for him. Just polite inquiries. Harmless. In theory.
He was striding now, blade still bared, and Yosoc turned the scrying orb as he went. The [Prince] was mouthing too.
“Of course the Queen would do nothing less to an ally such as Roshal’s. But they have offended her—with some cause. It shall be a matter for the Court of Silks, much less an assassination in royal presence, but there are precedents. Why, though, would…”
He figured it out around the same time as some of the viewers in the audience. Princess Lithic got it and drew in a sharp breath.
Prince Weith took a bit longer. He glanced around suspiciously. Pisces was jogging, now. Moving down the street faster.
You could just see the little gears turning in people’s heads. One of the Mad Ones, who had come out to see what was going on, was spelling it out for a few in the audience.
“He’s talking about what he was told he couldn’t do. If he attacked anyone first, she’d have to have him arrested. The key word is ‘unprovoked’. Now, there was just a Face of the Assassin’s Guild, which belongs to Roshal, attacking him. We call this ‘provocation’. Also, Adventurer Lareceina did say ‘what comes next’. That’s called foreshadowing. Now—”
Ah.
It was the kind of wording a [Necromancer] paid attention to. Or an [Innkeeper]. Some people still didn’t get it until they saw Pisces’ jogging transition into a full run. Then they stared at the sword. His eyes, which were intent as he ran down the street.
His name. Which everyone knew—but—but this was a city. He hadn’t attacked in here because of the law. Because…
No one had tried to attack him inside the city’s gates. But if there was any cause that might excuse a man’s actions, perhaps ‘nearly being assassinated by a Face of Roshal’ might…
At that point, an alarm bell began to ring. Not [Dangersense]; that had been going off in every single person’s head who had the Skill, oh, half an hour ago. They’d put it down to something else or the Face and the Scourge fighting.
The alarm bell in this case was an actual alarm bell, an enchanted one in the Slaver’s Guild. It was the one you rang when everyone had to just run. It was loud, and yes, it had been triggered by the Slaver’s Guild’s headquarters in Lailight Scintillation.
They weren’t idiots. The moment they’d seen Pisces draw that sword, some of the people there had figured out what might happen. Sadly—
The television was on a five minute delay.
 
——
 
The [Slavers] were pouring out of their Guild and into the streets, trying to saddle horses or just ride or run.
That helped Pisces quite a bit; they should have hidden inside and locked the doors. He was leaping down the street. [Flash Step]—not the other spells. [Flash Leap] actually had a lot of momentum, and you jumped with it. He had no practice with that.
They were armed. And surely, they could see how wounded he was. The Scourge looked like a dead man running. Some took aim, glancing from left to right to assure themselves of victory. They wavered when they saw the undead at Pisces’ back, Skeleton Champions running.
Even so…they saw him pointing a finger over their heads and took cover. The [Slavers] were snarling, rats prepared to fight to the death in front of their warren. Until he cast the only spell he had mana left for.
A flash of dazzling light. The guards threw themselves down, crying out. They thought it was aimed at them until they looked up. He’d missed?
No. The illusion spell was just that. It passed overhead, shooting over the city of Halqued, glowing particles landing on the roofs, pieces of a rainbow falling as the citizens peered up. Bits of color; a comet shooting across Chandrar’s skies.
It sapped the strength in the limbs of the [Slave Guards] who saw it. Conjured that name to their lips. Then they saw him running towards them. Blade drawn.
In that moment, the two became a single idea. Death of Chains. Scourge of Roshal. The first archer tossed down her weapons, just dropped them and fled, shedding everything she could carry. Then the next—and the next—
A [Slave Master] tried to rally the guards, but they took one look at the [Death’s Blade] that Pisces held, under the glowing comet’s light, and they fled.
Or maybe it was the two bells hanging from the rapier. One was the Bell of Challenges, which lay silent. The other?
Gold. And it did ring, because he was no expert beyond reproach. He had just earned it the old-fashioned way. Besting a Gold-bell Duelist.
No one could argue with that. Not even…
“Padurn Jealnet?”
The [Fencer] was a block of wood. A pillar of ice. A statue with [Eternal Stasis] cast on it. He only reacted the sixth time Drassi called his name.
She was smiling as the scrying spell zoomed out. Prince Yosoc was sprinting after Pisces, but she’d gone back to her studio.
“Mister Jealnet? I was wondering if you had thoughts on your son’s newest bell. We appear to be watching the Scourge of Roshal taking vengeance for his near-assassination. Which seems at least partially justified. I’m no expert on Chandrarian law, but Guild of Assassins, Roshal.”
She made two boxes on the desk with her claws. Overlapped them.
“Tragic. Viewers may wish to look away. Anyways, Fencer Padurn! How does it feel to have your son surpass you at less than half your age?”
She folded her claws together and rested her chin on them. Padurn did respond, then. The entire Court of Ailendamus was watching his broadcast. People across the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, across Terandria, the world, saw Padurn fix his eyes on his lifelong obsession. His son, still covered in blood. Then Padurn drew a breath and said—
“A Gold-bell won through a duel with a Gold-bell [Duelist] is unequivocally earned.”
Drassi exhaled and smiled. She opened her mouth, and Padurn continued.
“—If it were earned in a solo duel. Which it was not. A Gold-bell [Duelist] has the right to bestow such a bell only if two or more such duelists are in agreement.”
Drassi Tewing sat utterly still for a moment, just staring at Padurn. Then she exhaled.
“…Huh. You know, I didn’t expect anything better of you, but wow. Okay, let me just, uh, call up the Maestro and King of Duels. How about that?”
Padurn’s eyes never left the scrying orb.
“The individual known as the ‘Jester’ is not a recognized Gold-bell Duelist. A roving [Assassin] who slaughters actual Gold-bell—”
Drassi would have jumped through the screen, but one of her [Journalists] grabbed her.
“Drassi, don’t—”
“Let go of me, I just want to hit him. Let go of—”
“He’s a [Fencer]! He’ll cut you, and we don’t know if you actually bleed with the Skill!”
“I’m just going to—”
Her image turned black, which left Padurn Jealnet as the only host of Channel 2 news. The worst [News Anchor] in Channel 2 history stood there in dead silence for half a minute.
The Scourge was fighting down the street. Cutting down fleeing [Slavers]. But he was running. He didn’t want them? Padurn whispered, perhaps forgetting he was on television.
“I have never attempted to understand what goes on inside that head of yours. What are you doing? Is there no limit to how many rules you must break?”
The Scourge was advancing. And he was not alone; Prince Weith was running after him, sword raised, and his [Bodyguards]. Even some civilians. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had been attacked after all, insulted. And perhaps the Scourge’s words to the [Prince] still burned.
Skeleton Champions were sprinting after Pisces. Padurn’s face twisted in a grimace as Pisces ran on. He only slowed once and turned his head, questing left and right, as if hearing something foul. Then he shook his head and ran on.
Five minute delays. It took about that long for Padurn to figure out what was going on. He saw, of course, [Slaves] being led out onto the street. A Gnoll, who was being unshackled—other [Slaves] who’d been in holding, awaiting masters.
That was Wildcard’s doing. They were pounding ahead of Pisces, shouting.
“Set them free! Set them free or he’ll kill you!”
Captain Leonardo was riding on a horse, shouting, and he had run into the Slaver’s Guild to tell them to unshackle whomever they had—then run. One of the Guild’s [Receptionists] was clinging to his arm.
“You have to stop him! Please—”
Leo looked back at Pisces, who was running towards them. The [Tennis Champion] eyed the glowing blade, Pisces, and raised his hands.
“Uh…we’re not being paid enough for that.”
He turned his head so no one caught his expression as Pisces ran by.
No sum in the world.
But that was only…half of what Pisces was aiming for. He advanced past the Guild, leaving the Skeleton Champions and the others to keep fighting. He was headed for somewhere else, the viewers and Padurn realized. He was running faster now, desperate.
 
——
 
It was, in fact, the same district where Pisces had stayed twice. A rich area with mansions for the wealthy in the city of Halqued. A Silk district. It was where a prominent [Slave Trainer] lived.
Pisces was out of mana again. He tried gulping down a mana potion, but he was well and truly in mana burn. Body agonized and beaten, newly healed.
Yet he kept going.
There. He saw the mansion was in chaos, doors open, staff and guards in the streets. Because of course, the moment the owner of the mansion had seen him charge the Slaver’s Guild, she must have had a thought.
Once they’re dead, what about me? And she had bought [Slaves] from the Slaver’s Guild, the same ones he’d been involved with.
At least one.
The people of the city were in the streets, staring at him. Rich Silk-folk who shrank back from his bloody passing, trying not to catch his eyes. Those with nothing to fear holding scrying orbs showing a [Fencer] on screen, watching a running figure’s progress from above.
Pisces saw it all, and yet it all blurred before him. He was searching the street, the [Slaves] being loaded onto carriages as they took off, for a single figure. A flash of scales. Where—where—
He thought he saw a tail being whisked into a carriage as the [Driver] lashed the horses and drove it forwards. Another was being loaded up with children dressed like miniature [Butlers] and [Maids]. Pisces hesitated, but there was more than one—
“Back, back! We are law-abiding citizens of—”
A panicking Stitch-man tried to swing a long paddle at Pisces. Something you’d hit someone with to discipline them. It bounced off of Pisces’ armor as he climbed up into the carriage seat. His glowing blade rammed through the Stitch-man’s chest, and the figure convulsed. Fell over, then rose, a zombie. The other [Slavers] screamed as the zombie came at them.
Another wagon—Pisces flicked his wrist. [Shatterbolt]—it blew one of the wheels to pieces, and the terrified [Slavers] got out and started fleeing.
At least two carriages going towards the gates. He should have had Skeleton Champions secure them. The children inside the carriage stared at him.
“Don’t let them take you again. I’ll be back.”
He shouted and started running down the street. The inhabitants of the mansion who were [Slavers] were either hiding or already long fled. All save for one.
A Stitch-woman was running down the street ahead of Pisces. It looked like a horse had kicked her out of the saddle. She must have lashed it too hard, because the [Slave Trainer] who owned the mansion and all the [Slaves] was fleeing just ahead of Pisces. He sprinted at her, sword raised. Eyes roaming for the carriages—
“Unbelievable. First, you break the law. Then you turn your sword on the unarmed, the helpless? They cannot fight back. How low must you sink?”
A voice made Pisces stumble. He slowed—and he would have known that voice anywhere. But how—?
It was in dozens of scrying orbs around him, held by the crowd. A single face sneering at him, or the image of him. It still looked like Padurn Jealnet was staring right at Pisces.
His father. Pisces froze, gazing into the scrying orbs. The man was white-faced with anger and shock. He truly…
Didn’t understand anything. But he saw what he saw: Pisces, his son, a Silver-bell duelist about to cut down an unarmed woman from behind. His eyes were filled with such abhorrence.
Just like when he looked at undead. Or anything that Pisces had ever loved besides the sword. The young man was frozen, standing there.
He knew they were all running. The screaming [Slave Trainer]. The carriage with Lleta. But Padurn’s words were like a brand on his back. Pisces just halted there until Padurn whispered.
“Can you hear me, boy?”
Five minutes of delay. Pisces jerked and saw the [Slave Trainer] almost at the end of the street. The carriages—he raised a hand, and a skeleton horse began to rise from the bones flowing from his bag of holding, but that damn voice.
“She has no weapon. She is unarmed. Innocent. You do not know her. She did not attack you.”
Padurn Jealnet spoke like the training master he had been, barking every sentence down like it was set in stone. His eyes were a cold grey blaze in his face, and Pisces raised his rapier. Studying the weapon of bone. The bells that hung there were silent.
Then Pisces took a breath and pulled himself up onto the skeleton horse’s back. He turned and his face was caught by every scrying orb.
 
——
 
The Arbiter Queen was watching from her throne with her father, who was listening, studying his own golden bell. Admiring the other Pisces carried, which he had nothing like.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail was sitting on the counter of her Guild as the [Assassins] watched a man who had bested a true legend from their home. Rhata was running around in circles as Haldagaz waited, a scholar listening for an answer to an argument he could have made.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker was sitting in the magical carriage that had come to a halt on its mad rush, next to Colthei and a slumbering Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] was smiling in her sleep. Colth was covering his mouth as Elena and Delitandra hugged each other, waiting.
 
——
 
So many more. Little Gnoll girls, [Princesses] off and on ships, and Archmages. And…
The Death of Chains was sitting in the air. Gazing down at a spark that people said she had fanned into being. She had done nothing, barely paid attention to him. She had merely set him free.
It was…everything, she knew. Now, she waited. Hearing her own voice in her ears to answer this little man. Waiting for his.
She saw the Scourge of Roshal turn, and Pisces Jealnet spoke once as he kicked the undead horse forwards.
“Innocent? You ignorant fool. It was not empty when she grabbed their collars. It was not empty when they raised their hands and you could not see what they did. No hand which holds chains is empty.”
Then he was riding down the street, sword raising. Czautha saw it flash down once as he passed the [Slave Trainer]. He didn’t look back, didn’t gaze at the blood on his blade. He was riding onwards, now, through the gates. Chasing the fleeing carriages.
The Death of Chains exhaled as the father stood there.
Trying to come up with a reply to best his son. But Pisces couldn’t hear him anymore.
He was trying to keep his promise.
 
——
 
…But he was failing. At last, his strength had given way. It was just…
His skeleton horse was galloping as fast as it could move. The carriages were heavier, but there was a team of horses being whipped to run, and the wheels were enchanted. The [Drivers] must have had Skills.
That was all.
Had he the mana, he might have caught them with [Flash Step]. But the trail of dust kept getting smaller. He was gasping.
“No. Please…”
She was right in front of him. Almost. Almost…he was reaching out, as if he could pull them back from the horizon. And perhaps there was magic for that too. But he couldn’t focus. Pisces’ head dipped down. He saw the two dustclouds separate…and there were more figures moving.
He was losing them among the traffic on the road ahead of him. Pisces didn’t have tracking spells, and if they got away or just bought time until Roshal sent reinforcements or Yisame ordered him to halt again?
Pisces’ eyes followed the leftwards trail of dust, a tiny cloud rising. It ran into a cluster of dots. More dust on the horizon. Then he lost track of the carriage. He was riding closer and trying to pick it out.
But all he saw were figures, mounted…Pisces galloped forwards. Then he saw blades catching the light.
Guards. There were dozens—no, maybe over a hundred of them. He glanced down at the unenchanted rapier he carried. He was out of Skills, out of mana.
He kept riding. The little riders were circling around. Defending the carriage and its escort, which had come to a halt. One, then. He’d lose the other, and it was one versus…
Wait. Pisces saw one of the [Riders] hacking at something as he galloped forwards. They were cutting at…the carriage? And it had stopped. Surely they’d escort it onwards and block him.
But the [Slavers] on horseback were racing right and left. And the new [Riders] were…chasing them? Pisces saw one figure on horseback racing away from the road. Turning—then jerking.
Falling. Then he saw a figure leap down and plant a sword in their back. Drive the blade down three times, then raise it.
The other [Slavers] were dropping. And the wagon—someone was opening the doors, lifting figures out, pointing a bow into it at someone who came out, hands raised. They fell to their knees before an arrow nailed them to the side of the coach. The dead [Slaver] hung there, blood running into the sand.
Another [Rider] swept past the carriage, bow raised. They loosed, drew an arrow, loosed again. Pisces saw the number of living bodies in the carriage decrease by two.
A man was on the ground, running towards another [Slaver] who had jumped out and was trying to mount one of the horses missing a rider. He ignored the panicked blade that slashed across his face and chest and swung down.
More red. He hacked the body three times on the ground, then turned. The [Slavers] were all dying.
It was so quick. This group fought like they had no care for their wounds, shouting, a note of wild fury in the air. And triumph.
Pisces hadn’t looked in a mirror since he’d left Halquad all that time ago. So the sight of this attack astonished him. He halted for a moment.
“Is it…?”
He didn’t believe it at first. There was no dustcloud. And she had been leaving. But then Pisces had another thought.
What if…it wasn’t Merr? He focused ahead, and there was something familiar about another group of [Riders] streaming rightwards. After the second carriage. A very familiar feeling indeed.
Death magic. He could almost see through the eyes of a figure who sat cross-legged on the back of a running bear made out of bones. It was racing after the others, and they were being led by someone who held a short weapon in both hands.
Cleavers. They were following the second carriage. Now he knew who it was. Pisces whispered as his heart leapt.
“Bearig.”
The [Rebels] were shouting and finishing the [Slavers] as Pisces galloped past them. He saw a Stitch-woman tug down her veil.
“Scourge, the other one is there! Go, go! [Let Evil Not Escape]!”
Half the [Riders] with her saw the pursuit and whirled. They rode behind Pisces, shouting, and then he was amidst them. He turned his head and saw the man who’d been on foot grabbing an arm and being hauled onto a horse’s back.
Scars all over his body. Hemp—he was barely cut from the blade, and his eyes were locked on the second carriage. He was holding a dagger between his teeth, and he’d been carrying a huge scimitar in one hand, throwing daggers in the other.
The woman he was riding with had a recurve bow and was putting another arrow to the string. But Pisces had never seen arrows as jagged at these. Each one had tiny little nails fused to the arrowhead, angled so they’d enter but catch if you pulled them out. Hand-made barbed tips.
The armor of both [Rebels] was also mixed and matched. The archer wore three different pieces of chainmail, each one enchanted, cobbled together.
The woman that Pisces recognized was mounted on a new horse. A charger with barding, eyes covered. She had a lance in hand and was riding like a [Knight]. They were all following the other carriage.
“It is getting away! [Weighed Down by My Pain].”
The Hemp Stitch-man saw the second carriage was faster and flung out a hand. Pisces’ head whipped around, and he saw the carriage—slow. Was something hanging off it?
The [Rebels] and Pisces were streaming down the road, but Pisces’ eyes were on the man leading the second wave, trying to catch the carriage.
The enchanted carriage was throwing everything it had at them. The [Rebel] broke off slashing at one wheel and threw up a hand—a [Lightning Bolt] shot at him. He—bounced the spell off his cleavers, but the carriage accelerated.
Cursing, Bearig kicked his horse after it, but another [Lightning Bolt] was being fired from the window. A figure rode into it, and it illuminated Ivery’s bones. But then the Skeleton Lord was spreading his arms. Grinning like Toren once had.
He ate two more [Lightning Bolts] as the Warbear, Bearbones, reached the carriage’s side. Ivery grabbed the roof and swung himself onto it. He hurled a rock down at the roof, began stomping, and then drew his sword—
Spears from the inside jabbed through the roof and hit him in the chest. The Skeleton Lord wobbled, then slashed at the driver. He managed two blows before a swerve threw him; he grabbed onto one door and began dragging along the ground. The carriage door opened, and spears struck at him as he hung on. His glowing flame-eyes were fixed on something behind him.
Hurry up, hurry up this sort of hurts—
The distracted occupants of the carriage didn’t realize that Bearig had caught them until the man threw the cleaver.
It went through the driver’s chest, and the horses began to slow. The second cleaver hit a wheel, and the carriage was turning in a circle, now. Slower…
Bearig re-armed himself and leapt from the saddle as the rest of the [Rebels] encircled the carriage. Then—Pisces heard his voice.
“Exit the carriage without the [Slaves]. There’s no hostage to take nor anywhere to run. Hurt them and we’ll make this slow.”
Pisces was suddenly amongst them. Riding forwards. Bearig turned, and the two halted in astonishment.
The [Necromancer] was tall for a Human, and he remembered a shorter, fatter man with a timid smile and gentle bearing. Now, the [Rebel] was of a height with him and barrel-chested. Muscle was taut as he lifted a bloody cleaver, the edge battle-worn, just like his expression. His voice was a bellow, a solid note in the air, and he smelled of fury and sweat.
Yet when he put out an arm to stop Pisces, his eyes widened, and then he smiled. And that was Bearig. When his eyes turned to the coach, he focused on the children, and he only saw them.
Not the [Slavers].
The last of the [Slavers] were crouched in the open carriage. Each one had a blade to the throat of at least one child. A shaking Garuda, Stitch-child, and a Drake girl…
She wasn’t trembling. She was staring at him as Pisces dismounted. One of the [Slavers] screamed.
“Give us horses and you get them alive—if not, corpses! No arguments! We’ll kill them all, our honor on it!”
Bearig spat on the ground.
“We don’t negotiate. You’ll die ten thousand deaths. Come out and meet your fate. You of cloth—you have just as many lives to live if we restitch you. I swear that upon your worthless honor.”
His voice was thunderous. He was still the huge [Cook] in some ways, but he was imposing. The same determination that had emerged at the battle of the oasis turned into a fierce confidence. Again, he stopped Pisces from drawing a bead on one of the [Slavers]. He could hit one with [Deathbolt] if they didn’t react, but the other two…
“You’ll damn children. Be reasonable!”
One of the [Slavers] cried. There were at least a dozen children in the carriage with him, and he had an enchanted dagger. Pisces was frozen with indecision, but then Bearig’s voice became cool.
“Reasonable says the man who takes children as [Slaves].”
“They’re worth more than you or I. Listen, we’ll ruin a fortune and countless lives. You wouldn’t want that.”
They were trying to negotiate in something like earnestness, but even how they spoke…Pisces shifted, then went still. Bearig raised his brows, putting his cleavers into holsters at his side. The [Slavers] relaxed fractionally, but they were watching Pisces, tensed.
“Aye, a fortune, is it? Then what’s the half-Elf worth? Ten fortunes? None will save you. So put them down, and maybe there’ll be mercy as you deserve.”
The half-Elf? One of the [Slavers] turned and grabbed the half-Elf boy, abandoning the Drake girl.
“Listen, we’ve gold. You can have both it and the children if—”
He was thinking to have them just bring horses out. Then he’d grab a child and ride; they’d be afraid of hitting him. Damn the others. The [Slaver] was so desperate it only occurred to him after half a second to question something.
Half-Elf? Slave Mistress Hisqua loved buying prospective [Slaves], but half-Elves were in high demand since they lived so long. They were somewhat rare and expensive. She didn’t have any—
Rophir slashed off the second [Slaver]’s arm and stuck a shiv up the third’s jaw, into his brain. He grabbed the arm before it could spasm and cut his hostage. The boy hopped out of the carriage as the children screamed, and the two [Slavers] spilled onto the ground.
The Stitch-man who’d been holding a dagger at Rophir’s throat admired the simplicity of the attacks.
A true [Assassin]’s action. Splendid, glorious work. The trainer of this boy had been a genius. Vaguely, he wondered why he hadn’t reacted or done anything when the boy had revealed his true colors.
Then it occurred to the [Slaver].
Ah, of course. He was already dead.
 
——
 
[Delayed Kill]. The third [Slaver] fell over as two diagonal wounds nearly cleaved his head from his body. Rophir paused, turned, and lifted two fingers on each hand. He posed with his daggers.
“Endless silks, Rophir! You had us sweating! Enough with the showing off!”
Rebel Nathpe swung herself out of the saddle, laughing. Pisces just stood there as the half-Elf boy gave her a frown.
He opened his mouth, glanced at Pisces, then closed it and sidled around the carriage. He began poking at the Skeleton Lord, who was still clinging to one carriage door, two spears buried in his ribcage.
Ow, ow, ow. Stop that. Was I cool?
Ivery sat up as Bearbones loped over. Only then did the second group of [Rebels] and the reinforcements appear. Qshom came galloping down the hill.
“We don’t have long. Is he here? I—Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] was swaying on his feet. Bearig had turned to him after checking the children were unharmed. He strode over, arms spread, but then stopped.
“Bearig?”
Pisces looked like he had just been freed from slavery. Possibly…worse. His robes were torn, and he was pale and sweating. Mana burnt. Exhausted, hair blown crazily, desperate. Bearig studied him, then extended a hand.
“We came as fast as we could, but Merr got word to us, and then we heard you had been found by Nerrhavia’s Fallen. When we heard of the Face…I thought they’d come from this gate if they took you prisoner. It was all we could do.”
They’d been preparing to ambush a Face? Pisces blinked at him, and Bearig turned to indicate the [Rebels].
“We couldn’t bring that many. We’re wanted both by Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Roshal. I’ve stolen your face for this, Pisces. No one would fear a [Cook], and my family is still out there. I’m sorry. I hoped you’d underst—”
He broke off. Pisces had stumbled forward and put his arms around Bearig’s shoulders. The [Necromancer] half-collapsed as Bearig caught him.
“My friend. You made it. Thank you. Thank you for catching them. I’m…I’m a bit tired, Bearig. I’m sorry, but will you help me? Just for a second?”
He just needed a shoulder. Bearig gazed down at Pisces, and the same adventurer who had fought and helped keep the [Cook], the [Tailor], the other [Slaves] alive when they’d been freed…
Bearig put an arm around Pisces’ shoulder, then picked the [Necromancer] up. Pisces protested faintly, but Bearig just turned.
“You’ve lent us blade and magic and face for so long—of course. Anything we can pay back. Someone get to fuzzing scrying spells on us. They’ll be coming out of the city. Get the children mounted and ready to go. Do we hit the gates?”
“They freed the ones in the city.”
“Then we don’t risk it. I want us riding in one minute!”
Bearig did put Pisces down so the [Necromancer] could ride his horse; he seemed to object to being carried in Bearig’s arms, even if the former [Cook] assured him he could and had done it before.
Pisces had something to do first. He took a few wobbling steps over the sand, ignoring the blood and the bodies. His eyes were fixed on a little figure who stood there, staring up at him.
Lleta was wearing a black-and-white [Maid]’s outfit speckled with blood. [Slave] training. Her dusky green scales were dusty, and her eyes were big as she glanced around at the dead bodies. But she just waited until Pisces sank to one knee.
That took the last of his energy. The [Necromancer] searched for words.
I’m sorry I took so long. 
I wish I’d done this from the start. 
I’m so sorry.
He didn’t know what she’d been through already. On this long and terrible journey or when she’d been sold. He was afraid to know.
Lleta was the first one to break the silence. She fumbled for something in her outfit’s pockets, then produced a tiny, white handkerchief. She wiped at his face.
“Adventurer, you’re hurt.”
He blinked at her, lost for words. The little handkerchief didn’t really do much to the dried blood on his face. But the Drake girl kept dabbing.
“I knew you’d come back. I knew it. Verg didn’t believe me. No one did. But I kept waiting because I knew you’d do something. Then everyone heard about the caravans and I knew. I just had to wait, because…because that’s what adventurers do.”
Her voice was trembling. She put down the handkerchief after a moment. Swallowed.
“Even when it was really scary and hard, I just kept waiting. Did you save Verg too?”
Pisces had seen the Gnoll when he’d run past the Slaver’s Guild. He didn’t know where he was, but he looked into those huge, brown eyes and rasped.
“I’ll get him. You’re safe now, Lleta.”
“Yes. I know.”
Solemnly, she folded the handkerchief and put it in her pockets. Then she stepped forwards and hugged him. Hesitantly at first, then she buried her head in the remains of his robes.
“Did they hurt you, Adventurer Pisces? You look really, really bad. You must’ve had to kill a lot of bad guys. I’m sorry.”
He heard a muffled sound, and she started crying. The [Necromancer] patted her on the back.
“No. No…it’s fine, Lleta. It was easier than the Adult Creler. I would do it again. A thousand times. You’re safe now.”
“I know.”
She kept crying. He didn’t know what to do, so Pisces just kept patting her on the back until someone turned. Bearig was back.
The former-[Cook] was gentle, but he picked the girl up. They’d cleared the carriage out. She didn’t want to get back inside, though, so he let her ride with him. Pisces saw his skeleton horse was waiting for him, too. He got on it as Lleta watched him.
Then they were racing away from the city, and Bearig was asking about the [Slaves] that Roshal would surely re-collar. He sent volunteers to see if they were there and saw the [Slaves] riding out the gates, half on horseback, others bundled into carriages.
Wildcard’s doing. Or perhaps someone in the city who understood. Then they were streaming eastwards, dodging tracking spells, and Pisces felt himself falling asleep. So Rophir did a flying leap off his horse and grabbed the reins. Pisces blinked and—
 
——
 
—Found himself riding into the night as Bearig split the groups a third time, sending decoys with his face racing north—
Ivery and Bearbones were riding next to Pisces, and the Skeleton Lord was menacing a trio of Skeleton Champions sitting in a commandeered carriage. The lesser undead were staring at the weirdest undead they’d ever seen. Ivery was silently telling them to be nice to the [Rebels] or he’d smash their skulls in.
Nice? To the living? He was crazy. They only stopped staring at Ivery when Pisces whispered.
“He’s everything you need to become. Don’t you see?”
The Skeleton Champions’ jaws fell off their heads, and Ivery nearly laughed himself out of his saddle. Then Pisces blinked as Rophir started sniggering—
 
——
 
“—your bloody time! Bah, you made it, and he’s…eugh. He looks like underwear after it’s been shat in and someone spent a day riding about with it attached to a camel’s backside.”
Pisces didn’t even open his eyes.
“That’s Merr.”
When he did pull his head up, Merr was riding next to them, her Dustbandits whooping and cheering. She turned to him and spoke as Bearig made a gagging sound.
“Do you have to speak so, Merr? Rophir’s just a boy. Pisces doesn’t look that bad. He’s like…a ham gone slightly green. Might be bad all the way down, and you should probably toss it, but I’ve known fellows who’ll carve the other bits off and serve it up as good.”
It was Merr’s turn to give Bearig a gaze of horror.
“I’d stab a man who did that. Pisces, you alive?”
“Please stop analogizing me.”
Laughter. Bearig slapped his stomach and chuckled, deep in his belly, and Merr threw her head back. Qshom rolled his eyes as he carried his head in the crook of his arms, a smile the Dullahan’s only concession to the moment.
Merr rode over.
“We’ll stop soon as we have a break. You’re mostly dead, but you did it. Did you get her?”
“No. I’m sorry. She was a [Slave] too. I didn’t think about Casep. I hesitated and…she got away.”
Her voice was gentle.
“Argh, you soft Necrolad. You’ve humiliated a Face of Chandrar. Casep would laugh at that alone. Get some rest. But turn down half the levels, eh? I can’t have you hit Level 50 first. What about my reputation?”
Pisces rather feared…he fell asleep then and there, and someone did carry him [Princess]-style. But if so, he was smiling.
 
——
 
The [Rebels] did not spend long in the wilderness outside of Halqued. The [Queen] had sent her chariots back and hired Gold-rank teams, and scrying spells were combing the area for a sight of the Scourge.
Even with their Skills, and Merr’s, they couldn’t linger. But Bearig had a plan.
“Always have two plans. Running a rebel group that frees [Slaves] is rather like running a restaurant. I shall now explain.”
Rophir rolled his eyes as he lounged in a hammock where he napped. He rolled himself up like a caterpillar and hung upside-down. It was, apparently, the only way he would sleep.
Lleta was sitting in the tent, staring at Rophir. She looked…Pisces hoped she hadn’t been hurt. The Gnoll, Verg, was also here. As far as Pisces could tell, they’d freed all the [Slaves] in that caravan and many more from the city.
But he hadn’t heard the <Quest> update. Bearig was curious about that, as were the other [Rebels]. They’d been besieging Pisces with questions. Even asked him for autographs or for him to demonstrate his best [Slaver]-killing move—until Merr had chased them away.
Even now, they were sitting outside the tent, but a [Silence] spell gave them privacy.
Qshom, Bearig, Verg, and Lleta—because the girl insisted on being near Pisces—Merr, Rophir, and Ivery, who was standing in a corner, pretending to be a lamp, eyes aglow.
All but Eloque. Pisces watched Bearig go over to the maps.
“Like a restaurant, you always have a backup plan if things go wrong. If the ingredients are off or your best [Waiter] gets sick. Sometimes, you serve the local [Magistrate] a fishhook anyways, but two plans. Three or four, preferably. If we can’t meet up easily, you’ll know how to get in contact with a group that knows us.”
“Savere knows me. So long as the Siren and your half-Elf don’t start shitting in the same pot, she’ll help get word to me. I could even head that way, but I think we have to keep wide of each other.”
Bearig and Qshom’s faces screwed up with the most appalled expressions ever, and Lleta clapped her claws over her mouth and started giggling. That was enough to make Pisces smile. Rophir didn’t care for the Merr-isms, though, and hucked one of his shoes at the back of her head.
Hard. She swore and went to toss it back at him, but gently.
“This is why I don’t hang around you lot. Too sensitive. Eloque, now, she’s a girl that understands me. This? A boy’s club.”
She pointed at the Stitch-man, Dullahan, and half-Elf, who all stared at her. Qshom murmured.
“Eloque asked you to stop with your colorful expressions when we ate.”
Merr turned up her nose, sniffing.
“I don’t recall this.”
“Old.”
Rophir resumed caterpillaring when Merr glowered at him. Lleta edged over.
“Is that fun? Can I try?”
The half-Elf stared at her, unblinking, then spoke.
“Only cool people can.”
“Oh. Sorry.”
The Drake girl scuffed at the ground; she was still wearing a [Maid]’s outfit. But they’d removed the collar. Pisces saw Rophir hesitate, then unwind and pat the hammock.
“Careful.”
They all watched the girl try to tangle herself up like he had, until her neck spines were poking out the holes in the fabric and Rophir was trying to untangle them.
Pisces was just sitting there as Qshom got up.
“There are contacts in cities. A network of informants and people, but Pisces cannot endanger them. It is risky. So risky. But we can meet, especially if you leave the borders or go to places where Roshal has less power.”
“He’ll be followed by their Guild of Assassins and eyes. But yeah, I’ll pick up some countermeasures. No one’s getting the drop on my gang twice.”
All Pisces wanted to do was sit with them. His heart felt overfull and was tired. But relieved. They were so busy talking that Bearig only noticed Pisces faint smile after a moment.
“Pisces? Do you need more rest? Food? I still make food—better than ever, I’d say. Strange how hacking up [Slavers] gives you ideas for new recipes to try. And looting caravans bound for Roshal means you never run out of odd ingredients.”
Pisces shook his head slightly.
“I just want to stay here for a while. I know you’ve all gone to such lengths and we cannot, but…”
That’s all he’d wanted. All this time. To just go back and be here. To know they were as well as they could be.
And to bring them to his home.
Merr sniffed, and Pisces thought she was mocking him, but she just rubbed her eye.
“Damn dust. Idiot gets to leave Chandrar, and he comes back all high and mighty. Adventurers.”
“She’s missed you. She starts sniffing and talking like how she thinks Izrilians are when she gets lonely.”
Qshom whispered, and Merr scowled at the [Tailor]. Pisces started laughing softly. He knew he had to go back to his team; Ceria was spamming him with [Messages], telling him that he had better come back, and no more incidents this time, because they had enough trouble.
He knew he had to go back. But just for a moment…he lingered with them, and then they were sitting around a fire again.
Changed, different—but in a way, the same.
Not a bunch of former-[Slaves], because they weren’t defined by that. Just some friends thrown together by fate. And a Skeleton Lord, who saw the [Necromancer] glancing at him now and then. Ivery flopped down in the center of the tent, spread-eagled, staring up at Pisces.
 
What? I’m not mad…Father. Creator? Dad sounds weird. You got taken on a flying carpet, it’s fine, it happens. I wanted to stay. Plenty more interesting bones and fights over here. These chumps you’ve got following you around don’t know nothin’. Me? I’m experienced. Tough. Everyone likes me.
Sure, I lost to an actual Skeleton Lord we ran into one time, and Bearig had to bail me out. He was trying too hard. I’m not mad about the stone thing. It’s funny. Ha-ha, everyone gets a good laugh.
We don’t need to get all touchy-feely about things. Hurt people hurt people, that’s why Rophir is so good at what he does.
I know you didn’t bring me any gifts. It’s fine. Look at Bearbones, he’s got no expectations. Zen. Practically a [Sage]. I heard how the other guy went nuts, but not me. I have friends.
You could have given me a voice, but hey, when life gives you lemons, you’re glad that a half-Elf didn’t poop on them. Just like Merr says.
 
Pisces kept staring at Ivery until Merr broke the silence.
“You trying to win a staring contest with him? Because I’ve done that and only won once.”
He rubbed at one ear as he broke away from Ivery.
“…You won? Er, uh—no, I was trying to understand what he was thinking about. And either he’s, ah, changed a bit or I’m projecting onto him in quite a number of ways. Merr, do you have a saying about half-Elves pooping—”
“On a lemon? Favorite saying. You gotta ask yourself, Pisces m’boy. Whenever you get some fruits from the Claiven Earth—and they are the best—how do them half-Elves make fertilizer? Because I’ve heard they’re nature-freaks up there. Just think about it.”
He stared at her. Ivery shrugged. Pisces wasn’t sure if he was hoping this was some elaborate prank or not. He gazed at Ivery, then nodded.
“I suppose I am a bad…creator.”
Phew, he didn’t go the dad route. Ivery wiped at his forehead. Crisis averted. Pisces paused.
“I loved undead, but I guess I never thought of them quite as—as people. Ama and Gewilena, they saw it differently. They might have been more right after all. But my first true creation I treated poorly. I didn’t warn Erin.”
He reflected on Toren, perhaps for the first time in those terms. He’d always questioned if the bones of Nekhret had been at fault, his spell, the part he’d left blank—but he glanced at a covered scrying orb that Bearig sometimes used to monitor news.
“I’ve been a bad parental figure. I suppose I’ve never known what I was supposed to do right.”
Ooh. Merr, Ivery, and every eavesdropping [Rebel] winced. Merr began to signal for backup from Bearig, an actual father. But Pisces just got up, dusting his kilt off. That was all that was left of his robes. He might need new clothing. He walked over and held out a hand.
“Then again, you found people to love you and learned the only lesson I had to teach. I wouldn’t make you go anywhere but here. Here is where you’re needed.”
Ivery stared at Pisces, then took the hand and pushed himself up. He made a show of dusting down his patchwork armor.
Well, yeah. Obviously. You don’t have to be dramatic about it. Of course I’m guarding Bearig. Man wouldn’t survive midday soup without me. Ask him about the soup incident, go on.
“…What’s the soup incident?”
Bearig began spluttering explanations and defending his cooking, which had only nearly murdered someone twice. Whereupon Pisces did learn that most [Rebels] thought that Bearig was an inspiring leader, a brave and canny fighter, but who made utterly cursed food. And he smiled, but he watched Ivery out of the corner of his eyes.
 
——
 
Much else was said and done before Pisces the Scourge made it back to civilization, but he did return to the city of Halqued where Wildcard was waiting to escort him back to the palace.
The city’s gates were locked, and barrier spells were glowing behind every entrance as the [Guards] on the walls took cover and loudly talked about their poor families and pets that were waiting for them to come back home.
But the Scourge just passed beyond the walls and rode to a small outpost a mile outside the city.
The Mad Ones didn’t fear him, though they did invite him with a bit more interest than last time.
“Beat your first Face? That gets you a drink, actually free for once. Want some overpriced food?”
Master Otevious admired Pisces’ Stellar Ivory rapier with a sigh as he had Pisces recount the duel with the Jester. It wasn’t like they were immune to enjoying a good fight, and Pisces’ detailing of the way she’d fought caught their interest.
“Vibrations? I wonder if we could rig up a blade to do that. Anyone interested in collaborating on a spell? I think a mechanism would be too hard…”
“Why create the spell? Let’s go to a brothel that does sex toys and start from there.”
Pisces opened and closed his mouth and really hoped that this wouldn’t go down as his contribution to the advancement of weaponry. Otevious cackled, but he rested on his haunches. After a moment, he tapped the rapier.
“The tyranny of levels. Very well done, though. Your magical innovation? It may be only applicable to you, but there is genius there.”
Pisces regarded his rapier, then took something out of his pocket.
“Yes, well, the funny thing is, Master Otevious—this only came about because I didn’t have an enchanted rapier, you see. My channeling death mana only would work on a piece of unenchanted ivory; it’d clash with a regular enchantment.”
The man’s eyes gleamed.
“Ah. Another truth: there is no avenue not worth exploring. Though I imagine the mana-costs of an active enchantment are substantial. Still, [Death’s Blade] sounds nasty enough that I can’t imagine even Mars wants you to hit her with it.”
Pisces hadn’t figured out what tier it was, but his guess was that it was a Tier 5 spell. If not as instantly destructive as [Deathblast]…if you were good with a sword, you’d be doing a lot of applications of the magic.
He coughed and glanced at his escort. Wildcard was haggling for some of the Mad Ones’ gear, though they didn’t have that much gold. A very happy Yisame had paid them, but Lareceina refused to eat any of the overpriced snacks, and Kusal was talking with the resident Earther and haggling for upgrades for his tech.
They might become very fearsome…Pisces thought Lareceina had levelled, but he wasn’t sure how much. That was reassuring; an allied Gold-rank team in Chandrar was important to have.
Allies. Both here and riding into the distance. Pisces shifted.
“Well, Master Otevious, it occurred to me that the Guild of Assassins will come again.”
The man nodded.
“It will, and that’s the least of what you should have with you. Nice bell; it’ll help, but don’t rely on it.”
He indicated both the gold bell and the silent Skeleton Champions standing behind Pisces. The [Necromancer] nodded. Then he placed a piece of Stellar Ivory in front of the Mad One.
“Yes, Master Otevious. But if my current blade, and the one I’m likely to use for the foreseeable future, is just plain bone…Stellar Ivory is hard to shape unless one knows death magic. Very, very hard to collect. I don’t have enough to upgrade any one Skeleton Champion with it. Not nearly enough.”
Yeah, yeah, it’s rare stuff. Anyone can get more if they just work hard. Not like we need handouts.
Three of the Skeleton Champions turned their heads slightly to look at the fourth, who was more…scruffy looking than the others. He had a bit of Stellar Ivory on him, unlike the others, and he seemed more…animated than the rest. Bouncing on his heels, glancing around—then snapping to attention.
Odd. However, Otevious was distracted by the pieces of it in front of him. And Pisces’ rapier.
The Mad One picked up the ivory, and his eyes stole to the prototype shortsword on his walls.
“Why, if it was the blade you were going to use all the time…it might be handy to conceal it. Though how handy is that?”
“If I could ask for a quote, sir?”
Pisces conferred with the Mad One for some time in private. But despite a good hour’s long negotiations, in the end, he didn’t come away with a deal. The Stellar Ivory was too hard to work in Otevious’ mind, and a concealable blade was not going to win Pisces a fight.
“It’s a fine idea, young man. But if the price makes you flinch…”
The [Necromancer] didn’t seem that disappointed as he shook Otevious’ hand and walked out of the camp. But several observers who reported to their masters did so with a bit of relief.
The last thing the Scourge needed was a Mad Ones-style upgrade. 
 
——
 
That was that. Pisces Jealnet left Halqued empty-handed, and Wildcard joined him in a carriage ride to Tyrant’s Rest. It was a long journey, but they seemed companionable enough, and Halqued finally breathed a sigh of relief when the Scourge was gone. Even then…they kept watching the roads.
You never knew if he might come back. And his deeds would echo there. Even in his absence, the building he’d reanimated still stood over the city. The Slaver’s Guild lay empty, and they had seen what the Scourge of Roshal truly meant.
The magical carriage with Wildcard in it stopped only once since it was late. It was a moonlit night when Pisces Jealnet got out to stretch his legs. He stared up at the twin moons and scuffed around on the ground for a while. His Skeleton Champions stood there, and one of them joined him.
They got to bickering over the exact details of one part of the glowing lines on the ground. Even shoved each other until Lareceina came over and both sides agreed that hurtful things had been said and thought, and you know what? You could compromise.
Then, and only then, did Pisces step back and activate the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones]. Ivery was posing like Rophir in the center of it. That already made Pisces self-conscious, but he knew the spell, and he’d been thinking for a long while on it.
You could do a lot of bindings—if you had the knowhow and materials. There was such a thing as going overboard, so Pisces kept it light.
Ivery had wanted [Fireballs]. Instead, Pisces bound [Flash Step] to his feet. He placed an [Invisibility] spell on the Skeleton’s chest, and [Barrier of Air] in the skull. He didn’t have room for any more spells, and he frankly might have failed to do all of that properly, let alone more.
However, a certain master of magic had given him a few tips when calling to congratulate him about a parrying technique.
That alone would have been good enough, but for a fellow who might have to fight other Skeleton Lords or a Face…Pisces had been thinking about Ivery’s gear. Or lack thereof.
Ivery saluted the little glass pebble as it re-materialized in front of him. The weapon that had slain half a dozen [Slavers] lay there as Pisces put a replacement item there instead. It confused his observers, some of whom had been waiting here for hours.
“The fuck’s that?”
Merr was grumpy because she’d had to help set up the damn spell circle and then wait around for him. But she’d wanted to see, and she had to ride Ivery back to Bearig and the others. The other Dustbandits shushed her; she’d been the one insisting on helping the actual [Mages] among them.
The item in question was very strange to Merr. It made her nervous on principle, because she knew where Pisces had gotten it. It was like a [Rogue]’s weapon…and if the spies who had been watching Pisces had been any good at all, they would have noticed its absence from Master Otevious’ tent.
Sadly, they’d fallen for the most obvious trick in the book. The inventor had handed it over to Pisces, and they’d taken the hour to fashion a good-looking replacement, which was hanging on his walls. But the genuine article was now glowing in the light.
It was…a battleaxe. Or rather, it looked like one that someone had married to a bunch of compressed wire coils. Only a single trigger stood between you and enough force to blow through a chestplate of enchanted armor.
A weapon that Otevious was very proud of, but which he’d acknowledged had many flaws. Such as the recoil which could break your arm. Or the trigger, which, again, was delicate and if it went off, would kill you dead.
Or the springs, which would break and become risky without [Repair] spells after each activation—and the fact that each one needed to be hand-tightened with a custom mechanism he’d invented.
An utterly, utterly impractical weapon to use at scale, and a one-shot for even a [Rogue]. A lovely prototype, but not worth the gold.
…Unless you were a Skeleton Lord who would conjure the weapon bound to him as it had been, each and every time. Pisces was sweating as he poured mana into the spell, but when the air flashed and kicked him onto his back—
Ivery the Skeleton Lord held the spring-loaded battleaxe over his head. He checked it. Swung it up, tossed it through the air after arming it—
The explosion of sand and a stray coil made everyone duck. Merr slapped the back of the Skeleton Lord’s head. Then she saw him raise his hand, and a spring-loaded axe re-appeared in his grip.
“Worms of Zeikhal shit out of the desert’s ass—Necroboy, are you trying to get us killed?! Put it down! Down, Ivery—”
He was smiling.
Best birthday gift ever. It made up for all the other ones Pisces had missed.
“I didn’t miss any—why is he so weird?”
Pisces shouted at Ivery, and Merr stumped over. She sighed.
“He hung out with Rophir too much. Two strange little lads…well, he looks happy, and that should put paid to everything but a Djinni coming after Bearig’s lot. Ivery was already damn tough, he just couldn’t kill much. He was getting more adept, but now?”
She shuddered. Pisces nodded at the happy Skeleton Lord menacing the Skeleton Champions running away from him.
“I did all I could. I’ll see you all again, Merr. And when I do, I’ll make sure I’m prepared for the other upgrade. For Bearbones too, if I can manage it.”
His fingers already hurt at the thought of all that intricate needlework, but…yes. He was afraid of that power, but if anyone deserved it—
Ivery slowed. His head turned, and all the Skeleton Champions came to a dead halt. One exploded as the spring-loaded axe malfunctioned, but they just—
Merr blinked. She was yawning, eying Wildcard, who were pretending not to see all the Dustbandits as they let Pisces ‘stretch his legs’.
“Second upgrade?”
Pisces just smiled at her.
“I’ll tell you when we’re away from prying ears. Not that I don’t trust everyone, it’s just that some secrets are so big I can only trust Merr the Storm with them. Not even Wildcard, yet.”
They jumped, and Pisces suspected it was Kusal or Lareceina who’d been listening to them. He grinned as Merr chuckled.
“Ah, that’s worth the ride. Alright, you lot! Get mounted! So you’re bound for the capital? Less trouble, I take it?”
He nodded as they prepared to say farewell, just for now.
“I am. I need to check on Yvlon, and Ceria and Colth have been up to their own adventures.”
“Well, you just let me know if you want company or someone to knock some sense into them. Hopefully I’ll meet them. Tell the Silver Killer that Rexel and Leprel can join the gang if they haven’t gotten soft, yeah? Then get some damn sleep.”
She punched Pisces in the shoulder, and he almost fell onto his face. He was still weak and recovering, and he really, really hoped the Jester wasn’t going to be coming around for a rematch any time soon. Hopefully the [Death’s Blade] kept her weak.
Hopefully they hadn’t killed her for failing. He rubbed at his nose and sniffed, which earned him a chortle from Merr.
“I’ll try to get some rest, Merr. A bit of relaxation after all this. Keep an eye out for Lleta, Ivery. And the others. I’m just planning on two meetings, and then I’ll sleep until next month.”
Merr rolled her eyes.
“Queen Yisame wants you to tell her all about your heroics? Careful with that one. Rumor is she has a sex dungeon larger than the entire nightclub you blew up. Don’t go re-animating that.”
Pisces paused, opening and closing his mouth. He tried not to ask more questions, but everything Merr did invited comment. He spluttered.
“Wh—I’m sure I’ll talk to Yisame, and it will be quite chaste. She’s had no designs on me—not that I expect any royal I meet to be interested in me!”
The [Bandit Lady] rolled her eyes as she checked on her Nightmare, then put a foot in the stirrups.
“Sure, sure. Let’s count. The Arbiter Queen, the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen isn’t into you, yeah, sure, nor’s the King of Destruction, nor the King of Duels—careful or they’ll all have you in bed. Actually, stay away from Revine while you’re at it.”
The things she thought of. Pisces shook his head, grinning, as he walked away.
“It’s just a talk with a friend, Merr. And a date with Lareceina, that’s all.”
“What’s that?”
Pisces waved as Merr went over the saddle and landed on the other side with a thump. She sat up as he smiled.
“I’ll see you later.”
“Wait a—what did he just say?”
The [Necromancer] wandered off as the Dustbandits turned from riding away. He waved at Lareceina, who hesitantly waved back as Merr pulled herself upright. He’d asked her if she was open to a date after he’d exited the [Pavilion of Secrets], and he was glad to put all the jokes behind him.
Plus, there was that weird Skill—he utterly missed the commotion behind him.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet, Scourge of Roshal. A man of infinite amusement at times. And perhaps…potential.
He would have made an unsurpassed [Slave]. The fact that he had never come to Roshal to be turned into something as glorious as the Jester? Tragic.
But his war on the nation was…disastrous. One man’s actions had tarnished Roshal’s name.
“It was not his actions, but yours, Pazeral.”
Shaullile hissed across the table where the [Slave Lords] of Roshal had gathered. She was tired and wet; a Courier’s ship from Zeres was not fun to ride, but she’d had to move fast to get here.
Now they were talking. Arguing, rather, over what should happen next.
It was actually one of the first true arguments they’d had. They’d disagreed over many issues before, but talked out their differences. Acceded where one was strong. Who would argue with Andra over matters of coin? How it should be spent, yes. How to optimize it?
No.
This was different, though. This was an argument over what should be done next, and they were not aligned, to each’s displeasure. Pazeral was still clutching at the angry violet streaks in his side. The poison had yet to leave him, so he sat, unable to rise. He hissed back.
“If there is error in my actions, I take it. But we have been made fool twice, then. For we bared ourselves to the world, and they recoiled—but we also failed to revenge ourselves and humiliated our Guild of Assassins! Finest in the world, hah!”
He spat that at the Naga, Emir Yazdil. The only mortal [Slave Lord] of Roshal was coiled in on himself, and his voice was…overly patient.
“A man who could best a Face is better acquired than lost.”
“And he is better dead than an enemy. Let alone one you’ve levelled.”
Shaullile snapped back. She raked a claw through her neck-spines.
“This Face is incompetent, regardless. She should have gone for the kill, and she failed.”
“Her r-record is good. Anomalies do exist.”
Andra demurred. She was reviewing the files on the Jester, and the last [Slave Lord] to speak, Thatalocian, murmured.
“Her name. I wish to weigh her true name. 10-5-19-20-5-18. Even the name is hard to read. A mockery of digits. A run of three, two numbers divisible by the smallest…”
His fingers were tapping a tool he’d brought out, a series of dials. Each face of each dial had a different letter and number on it, and he was sorting it.
“11-9-11-9-1-17. Another sign of trickery. Not an even number among them. Bah. Had the last one been ‘e’, it would be a portent indeed.”
They ignored his insanity lest they catch it. Shaullile was annoyed.
“A Face failed. In my day, they were killed or punished.”
“She is well-made.”
Yazdil snapped. Andra nodded.
“I do not dictate Assassin’s Guild policy. Whatever the current law is…”
Thatalocian folded his arms, refusing to weigh in, so Yazdil and Shaullile were deadlocked. It was Pazeral who hissed.
“Send her to me. I shall evaluate her. If I’m pleased, she lives.”
The [Slave Lords] glanced at each other, and Shaullile threw up her claws.
“I don’t care. Now, you will listen to me. Leave the diplomacy to me. And some of what we will do is be silent and take our lumps. If any of you, any of you, rock this ship, I will kill you.”
The [Slave Lords] did not like threats, but they nodded slowly, and Shaullile turned to Andra.
“Good. Andra?”
“Every surviving [Slave Master] in the region attacked by the ‘Scourge’ is d-demanding reparations from the Slaver’s Guild. Compensation for losses incurred while sheltering. Assurances, security, that they will not fear such attacks again. We shall, of course, increase security and ref-fuse the compensation.”
This was the heart of their disagreement, actually. Instantly, every single [Slave Lord] disagreed. Yazdil’s tongue flicked out.
“It is customary to make whole any caravan who is failed by the Guild.”
“By paying their every little complaint?”
Shaullile was incredulous. She stabbed a claw down onto the table.
“This isn’t our problem. This is each nation’s fault. The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen is making a mistake. We should remind her of it, politely.”
Yazdil was calmer than she was and lifted his tail and shoulders in a shrug.
“She has a penchant for the team. Of course our [Diplomats] are already pressing the issue. But are we not all Roshal?”
The words needled Pazeral, who spat.
“Do we protect them or find these [Rebels]? Levy each master for forces and we shall go hunting!”
Andra tsked loudly as the other two [Slave Lords] argued.
“This is overblown. If we increase the existing protocols—we do not need to make exceptions for—”
They were bristling, auras pressing against each other, so Shaullile deflected with her usual tricks. To the wrong person this time.
“Thatalocian. Give us some numbers-based wisdom. How about the old 1-2-buckle-my-shoe logic? What would you do?”
The [Slave Lord] was usually disinterested in most answers, except to consult the numbers and give a ‘yes’, ‘no’, or abstain. However, they were all suddenly reminded of his presence as he folded his arms. He loomed there, and his voice was quiet.
“We will give them nothing.”
Shaullile and Pazeral began to smile, but Yazdil’s eyes narrowed.
“Nothing, Thatalocian? We do promise that the Leashed Trails are secure. The Slaver’s Guild is devoted to the sale of [Slaves]. These [Slave Masters] have some right to complain.”
The other four nodded at that. But Thatalocian’s face was stony.
“We give them nothing.”
“Right, so the fact that the Scourge and [Rebels] killed over a dozen caravans is just…peachy?”
This time, Shaullile’s voice grew sarcastic, and Pazeral made a twirling motion with one finger as he glanced at Andra. Thatalocian’s eyes narrowed.
“If they object, which I am sure they will, the [Slave Masters] may come here. Then, address their complaints to us. They whine and beg for gold. If they are upset—let them bring it with voice and deed. If not? They level or die.”
“Your favorite method for everything. One has to wonder if you ever found a better method.”
Yazdil murmured to himself, and Thatalocian spoke to him.
“Your methods would create pretty toys to break like glass in the Long Night, Yazdil. Just like you.”
The Naga’s eyes turned venomous, and Andra raised a quavering hand.
“Some recompense would be merited. If we agree to a number, we may discuss th—”
Thatalocian’s fist hit the black marble table and cracked it. All four [Slave Lords] recoiled, though only Pazeral was fast enough to have a hand on a blade. Thatalocian roared.
“Do we cover this up? We are Roshal, and our blood lies upon the sand! Will you pay gold and let these [Slave Masters] wipe their sweat away and pretend they were not in fear for their lives? I will not allow us to pretend we are not bleeding or hurt, however small. Let them fear the Scourge. Let him slaughter a thousand caravans. The ones who live will become worthy of this place.”
Four pairs of eyes glittered at him as he shrank slightly, and each one of the [Slave Lords] of Roshal held their ground. Shaullile’s forked tongue flickered in the shadows she stood in.
“That may be the Roshal you know and love, Thatalocian, but mine remembered every insult. He’s crossed a line. Let’s say…I agree that we’ve got a weak crop of [Slave Masters]. Everyone agreed on that?”
Yazdil hesitated. But Andra, Pazeral, and Thatalocian nodded. Shaullile pulled up a chair and put her feet on the broken table.
“Good. Then we’ve got a point of agreement. Let’s negotiate the rest. Thatalocian’s right. If they can’t even deal with one adventurer, even one approaching Named-rank, we’ve got a lot of maggots crawling around our towers. Let’s hatch them or find new ones.”
The Naga said nothing as he saw the other three leaders of Roshal picking at his careful garden. Where few blooms save the ones he allowed to grow rose to any prominence that could threaten him. He wished to object…but he was one voice among five. And—he glanced at the image of Pisces Jealnet and sighed.
He was not certain they were wrong.
Even so, the Naga marked it. This was not the first time he had been forced to compromise. That was no failure he held against himself; it was politics at any level, give or take.
But this time, he had been well and truly overruled. Yazdil also paid attention to his reaction. He had not been willing or confident enough to force the issue. He had observed his fellow [Slave Lords], analyzed their faults and competencies, and found them wanting in so many ways…but he could not remove any one of them. He no longer even wished to; they were vital.
Yet the Naga was not happy. He did not stand among equals, not among even ghosts. Not in his home. To once again make Roshal his own, he would have to take risks. Play the only pieces he had left that none of them had access to. They might be superior [Slave Masters] of ancient days, who had seen and done what he could not imagine.
But they were still just those beings of old. What was a [Slave Master] without capable [Slaves]? His were very fine, and he had laid a great foundation not even the other [Slave Lords] were aware of. Like eggs, carefully incubating in the warm sands. Time, then, to hatch them and change the world. He sighed, simply regretful.
He had not longed for the changing of an age. But he would rather slither atop the ruins of a new one than share space with any other.
 
——
 
Of course, everyone had an opinion on the Scourge’s duel and war against Roshal. Again, most were inconsequential and did not change the world.
Just…perhaps their world. And perhaps only as much as any one moment could. A pebble’s width towards a different point of view. It wasn’t enough, but it was something.
The world was not fair, just, or good. It did not reward the deserving and often only gave those with power and wealth a favor.
Trader Hexata knew that. So when she celebrated the Scourge’s victory against a Face with her brothers, they were so drunk as to have alcoholic piss. They had bought out a pub in the city where they’d stopped—not Halqued—and were buying everyone drinks.
The pub, which was on the Scourge’s side, passing guests, even the camels. The largesse of a [Trader] who’d been paid well and just made some inroads with the black market.
Humble, you might say, for a woman who could claim she was part of the Scourge’s tale. Dangerous, if anyone ever thought to take revenge for that link.
Trader Hexata did not rage against fate or blame the Scourge in any way for missing out on treasures or fame. She was a humble woman who had run into a legend.
And who had also scurried over to the Mage’s Guild the moment she’d seen the first caravan attacks on the news. There was a group of [Mages] in Wistram who took bets on news stories, run by the Illusion Faction—she’d put half of all the money she had on Pisces Jealnet surviving.
Just…surviving. The odds had been very, very low when the Face had appeared. Plenty of counter-bets from Lailight Scintillation. The Illusion Faction had paid out her bet and even sent her a note of congratulations.
That was all. In this world, if there was no reward to be had, then it was one you had to make for yourself. So Hexata had a bit of coin to burn and a story to trade on—carefully. She could accurately tell [Slavers] that she had held the Scourge back from a bloodbath the first time, after all.
She toasted Pisces as she and her brothers danced on tables into the night.
 
——
 
There was no dancing in Ailendamus’ courts, for all they had plenty of ballrooms. Plenty. Baron Regalius had once gone on a ‘Dancing Tour’ of the palace with refreshments, fine music that went from ballroom to ballroom, and he’d had to quit after the fifteenth.
No, there was no dancing. That would imply to an observer that Ailendamus supported the [Necromancer]’s actions. And there were enough diplomats in the palace who could observe the talk of the court to infer a simple correlation.
Politics was sometimes very simple. Yes, it could be the dynamic, complicated web of interests, the push and pull of economy, military, society, and culture upon the will of a throne. Or, sometimes, it was just a [King] wanting something really badly or popular sentiment.
Why did a [King] divorce his wife and marry someone a third his age? Because he really wanted to, and no one told him ‘no’. That was the…the blunt edge of the beautiful world that Regalius liked.
His older brother, the late Baron Digeneral, had never liked it. He’d gotten it, but he’d hated a world ruled by emotion and not logic and rationality as he’d seen it. Regalius himself had once made a decision out of pure emotion that had changed the course of nations. A decision not to marry a [Princess]…
He wondered if he should pay for that sin, sometimes. If his brother’s obsession that had led to his death, the passing of his fiancée in a tragic accident, the misery of the Cursed Princess, Seraphel, was all due to his actions. Fate was indeed unkind because it had not punished Regalius himself for any of it.
This was life. This was why a man drank, at times. Or had cats to cuddle. It was reality that if a [King] backhanded you, you might level because he was a [King]. It was not right.
Regalius was only glad that he hadn’t seen such in his kingdom. He had to also applaud the King of Bows. King Itreimedes was not a subtle, calculating man. But his honesty continued to win him points among his people and abroad. He had no head for politics. The instincts of the [Archer King] meant he shot at the right targets, however. So that was a head for politics, in a sense.
You know who had no instincts diplomatically? Padurn Jealnet. The same footwork that was so flowing on the dueling grounds wasn’t flatfooted in the Court of Ailendamus; it just didn’t exist. He didn’t seem to realize he could apply his class or any of the skills he’d won to this setting.
Disappointing. The man’s latest performance on television had been so disastrous that over ten thousand letters had been sent to the palace from outraged citizens.
Baron Regalius brought the man a drink. No one else was talking to Padurn, and he seemed rather surprised anyone was smiling at him at the moment.
“Thank you, Lord…”
“Baron Regalius, Fencer Padurn. May I say that it has been a pleasure to have you at court? You have turned us all upon our heads, we polished, privileged folk. To hear you speak so honestly and openly is a delight.”
Padurn Jealnet stared at Regalius and took the Baron at his word, smiling back. Which was fair because Regalius meant everything he had said. Just perhaps not as Padurn had heard it.
“I am glad someone feels so, sir. I had the impression I was unwelcome, despite conducting myself to every standard I know.”
His eyes stole to a certain [Battle Princess], Princess Ozena, the eldest daughter of King Itorin II, who was shooting him evil eyes as she remonstrated with her parents. She was not the only one who disliked him.
House Shoel seemed rather split on Padurn. Half of them didn’t seem to care about him one whit, but Lord Uziel and his cohort regarded the man with an odd dismay. As if they would have loved to embrace his plain-spoken, honest ways, only they weren’t quite sure how he’d gotten to where he was with all his earnest integrity.
Nobility were a bit less kind. Padurn was a hard man to enjoy speaking to, and his conduct on television had not won him any points. In fact, you could argue that Padurn was a sinking anchor tied around any pro-Roshal sentiment, and he had made the best case for killing [Slavers], necromancy, and filial impiety in the history of Ailendamus’ courts.
Hence why Regalius pumped his hand up and down.
“Nonsense, Fencer. Nonsense. True, some people may object to your presence, but we would hardly be such a diverse nation full of wonderful ideas if we all got along. You should have met my brother. I wonder if you two would have been friends.”
An odd thought. They were so alike and yet different. Two upright men who stared only at the line they saw, not anything else. Regalius paused, and Padurn bowed gracefully.
“I was not aware your brother had passed. Allow me to express my condolences, sir.”
“Thank you, thank you. Now, Fencer Padurn, I believe that given the Scourge is departing the city, there may be less call for you on television.”
Those Drakes don’t want you back, and our networks aren’t going to endure you either. Padurn’s head bowed.
“It has been a delight to visit the royal courts. I only wish I could have spoken to Their Majesties.”
Odd that they hadn’t spoken to the man, but royalty was busy. And they could hear. Regalius kept beaming, but he lowered his voice and activated [For Your Ears Only].
“Well, Fencer, I know you and your delightful family do have your own life to get back to. But speaking as the Baron of Ceremonies, I am empowered to promote my own diversions and necessary entertainments. I have a discretionary budget.”
It went to parades for the Knights of the Hydra, mostly. Padurn stared at Regalius, wondering why the man was saying this, but Regalius was looking ahead.
“It occurs to me that fencing is a noble art which our palace enjoys—but might see more of a resurgence. One can dream. Would you be open to a tutoring position at court? I should love to see more of you.”
Padurn blinked. He looked around, then smiled and straightened his already-immaculate posture. Regalius began to talk numbers—it would be a modest stipend, of course, and the man had a job.
But it would be wonderful to see him in court now and then, eh? Naturally, someone might complain, but Regalius could claim it was a bureaucratic mixup. The fellow’s contract would be magically locked in, and he’d have access to the palace. And if someone asked him for his opinion and he gave it…
What a boon to the man’s enemies, eh? Of course, you might not see it that way.
Yietha, Regalius’ wife, sighed as he waved her over to signal success. Even though she’d suggested the entire plan, he thought it was fair.
Regalius had a plan, and that plan was mostly confined to what he was good at: making a spectacle, making Ailendamus beloved. He was also, like Trader Hexata, a betting man. He wagered he could pay Padurn out purely from the winnings on betting on Pisces’ survival…though he felt like Padurn wouldn’t get the irony or appreciate it.
It sounded funny and silly. But Regalius felt like this was a strong move in a game that was quite difficult. Ailendamus was a nation made of various cultures. Traditionally Terandrian in many senses, for all it was thought to be progressive.
Roshal? Roshal existed, and most Terandrians fancied themselves to be like Noass. Above such things, but they gave it no thought. They did not think of history beyond Az’kerash, either. No love for [Necromancers]. They could object to something abhorrent, then forget about it.
You needed to repeat the conversation, to force them to engage with it. What better tool than a son of Ailendamus? Or his father, who was like a dog with a bone with any topic?
Look. Regalius excused himself from Padurn after a moment and turned. His [Survey the Courts] Skill picked out any moments of interest, a glow in his sights.
He saw, quite clearly, Princess Ozena speaking at the high table. And he could hear thanks to Yietha’s [Share Senses: Hearing] skill. Always good to be a loving married couple.
 
——
 
“—bit of merriment, Father.”
“And why would I call for a party, Ozena?”
King Itorin II was amused. Not in a ha-ha kind of way, but at his daughter. He was of mixed emotions, as a man of his age and understanding was allowed to be.
He swirled the pear juice around in his cup. Good, fresh stuff from half-Elves. He didn’t want something stronger or he might dwell on, well, the [Slaves]. It had been an entertaining last few days.
Funny to imagine that Gold-rank adventurer was a son of Ailendamus. Another one who’d gotten away. Necromancy…now there was a topic that Itorin hadn’t heard brought up outside of Rhisveri or the Noelictan conflict last year. Itorin II had thought the bloody war with that Pisces fellow to be a bit overblown.
But he’d seen some of the point at the end. Children in chains or dressed up like servants. It made you wonder…dark things. And, unfortunately, Itorin II was in possession of a lot of information specialists. He did not have to wonder, merely ask, and he got answers in detail of what might have occurred or what did occur in Chandrar.
Hence, his mercurial mood. His wife, Queen Oiena, was less sympathetic towards Pisces the Scourge. But that wasn’t personal; he thought she’d also been inclined to cheer the fellow liberating children. It was just that her kingdom, the Taimaguros Dominion, did have links to Lailight Scintillation. Nothing so open, but she was weighing things as a Daughter of Gura.
Ozena saw things more simply, and sometimes that was lovely. But King Itorin II wished his daughter had a bit more savvy. He was amused by her attempts to get him to throw a party.
“I don’t believe there is a moment that merits spending that much coin, Ozena. We are at war, and we should not indulge while the populace toils.”
He reminded her, and she tossed her head of green hair.
“Who said I would ever ask for a party for us alone? We could choose three cities and…”
“Ozena, it would appear as though we’re celebrating events overseas as you have presented no good reason for us to celebrate here.”
Queen Oiena flicked a hand-fan out and peered at her daughter, a warning tone in her voice. They weren’t under privacy spells. This was fine. King Itorin II chuckled as Ozena bit her tongue. She knew better than to say she wanted to celebrate the Scourge out loud.
“…The King of Bows is throwing a party in Avel.”
“Are we linked to Avel or the King of Bows in any way, Daughter?”
“In a fine appreciation for men?”
Ozena’s comment made one of the people listening spit out their drinks. Itorin, trained from birth, didn’t cough out his drink, but he did laugh. Queen Oiena did not.
“Ozena, your comments are an insult to Avel and ourselves. Control yourself!”
Her daughter bowed her head. Itorin tried to salve Oiena’s wrath; it was just a joke, and no one who knew the King of Bows would take umbrage to that statement. Dangerous, though. What were they teaching in the magical academies for Ozena to come out with that? In Kaaz, such a statement might get her a death-duel if it were said to the wrong person.
Maybe she was too sheltered there after all. Maybe the culture of the young [Mages] and students was rubbing off on her. But they didn’t want their daughter to be like the Princess of Keys and go off to risk her life on adventure. Itorin sighed.
All this because of a [Necromancer]. One with a golden bell. A first for the history books in two centuries, he suspected.
Itorin II wasn’t blind. He’d heard the talk in the courts, and one of his people had just pulled a contract that Baron Regalius had filed with a certain [Fencer]. Itorin II didn’t block it; he wasn’t sure he disagreed with Baron Regalius at this moment.
Sometimes, as a monarch, you steered the horse of a kingdom through the briar patch or deep waters. And sometimes you just rode and let it take you where it willed, listening to it. Often, he had to listen to the whims of the Wyrm who rode both [King] and kingdom, so Itorin was in a unique position.
His freedom was that he was still a [King], and a kingdom was not something even an immortal being could rule perfectly, at least, not Rhisveri and his cabal.
The King of Ailendamus surveyed his court as his eldest daughter withdrew. He saw Padurn Jealnet smiling—until a [Lady] strode over to ask him what kind of a father wouldn’t acknowledge his son’s deeds. To argue about the right of a man to hold chains.
“It is their law.”
Itorin could read Padurn’s lips. No excuses, no second thoughts. Just a man pointing to a sign. Because someone had written on the sign, it was correct.
Is that morality? Itorin doubted it. He rather wished his friend, Ryoka Griffin, were here to set the Court of Masks to delightful chaos. He closed his eyes and gazed at the last image they’d seen.
Just a kneeling [Necromancer] with a little Drake girl hugging him. That was when Itorin II had been sold on the Scourge.
Not at any moment before. A [Necromancer]. If he became like so many others…it was just one man. You could claim he changed. But the decision to embrace any figure was still a choice. Let alone for the Crown to sanction anything. He had been deliberately obtuse this entire time. But Itorin just let the image replay.
What terrifying things Wistram had invented. The television was changing this world. He heard a voice.
“Father…?”
He opened his eyes, and there, overlaid with the image of the little Drake girl, was his youngest daughter.
Princess Oesca Zessoprical was a year older than the girl that Pisces had rescued. She blinked, as if wondering why her father focused on her with such intensity. But she curtsied in the skirts she didn’t want to wear.
Children changing. He smiled at her.
“Yes, Oesca? Has something happened?”
She gave him a solemn nod.
“Father, a very important thing has happened today. I would like to report…that I’ve lost my last baby tooth.”
He blinked at her. Oiena stopped whispering with her other daughter, and they peered at Oesca.
Human children lost their teeth rather early on, most of the time. Like their Earth counterparts, but even quicker given how years were longer in this world. Or so Itorin was being briefed…he put Earthers from his mind.
Oesca’s final baby tooth had left her mouth, and she presented him with a gap-toothed smile as the court murmured. Some of the non-Humans appeared appalled; they didn’t do ‘baby teeth’. But there were voices of congratulation, and Oesca shuffled her feet.
“My word. Then I imagine the coins might transmute if the Alchemist of Teeth needs one for his concoctions tonight.”
Amazing how that fellow got around. Turned teeth into coins or candy. Oesca showed him the tooth—covertly—and Itorin eyed it.
It was stuck in a hard piece of candy. Quite deep. Oesca hadn’t liked losing her baby teeth, which did hurt when they came out. She normally stayed away from anything that would lose it. But perhaps she’d been hungry and forgotten.
Or really wanted to lose a tooth? She was giving him the most innocent of stares, and she was good. He smiled.
“Well then, perhaps we should throw a party.”
“Dear.”
Oiena was hesitating, but Oesca turned up the charm, and she spoke to her mother.
“I know it’s just teeth, Mother, but now I’m almost ready to turn ten! And there’s nothing like a set of adult, Gura-chomping teeth, is there?”
A nod to Oiena’s beloved half of Taimaguros and the [Queen] was smiling. Itorin II just chuckled and made his choice.
“Very well, a little party. Let’s have some entertainment and choose some cities to celebrate—a tooth festival, perhaps!”
The idea took root fast among the court, who all agreed it was a fine thing! A moment of whimsy! Even nobles who might protest the waste of coin on frivolous things—odd how they were suddenly in favor of celebrating teeth.
A few courtiers protested, and Itorin II took note of them. But he saw the mood of the courts was with Oesca, and he spoke out of the corner of his mouth as he activated a silencing spell, just for a moment.
“Oesca, you might wish to avoid giving your sister a glance of triumph. A tad too obvious.”
The young [Princess] jumped and blushed. But that was just a father looking out for his daughter. Itorin II rose to dance with his daughter in one of the many ballrooms of palaces Ailendamus had conquered and taken to their capital.
In honor of baby teeth as a [Necromancer] slept.
Small things. Like children, growing up so quickly.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet went on a date the next day, and there were a number of odd events that took place. Nosy teammates, at least one Dustbandit, and his new Skill.
“[Seduction Counter]. Hahahahaha—that’s a—and you—heheheheh—heeheehee—ow, my sides.”
“I’m glad you’re so amused, Erin. I don’t find it particularly funny.”
She rolled onto her stomach and lay in the grass of her [Garden of Sanctuary] as he threw pieces of bread down at Fortress Beavers milling about.
It was just an illusion. But she was back to ask him what had happened and because…they were talking again.
Not that either one had ever wanted to stop. They’d just been nervous. But once the ice had broken? It was all different, but the same.
Erin pulled herself upright. She patted Pisces on the back and grew serious.
“Aw, c’mon. I’m not teasing—okay, I am. That Skill’s funny. You not knowing when people are flirting with you is really funny. But I’m happy. It’s gotta be nice, being popular like that.”
He snorted softly.
“It feels rather embarrassing when you don’t pick up on it. I just never believe…a [Princess], really?”
He shook his head, and Erin tilted her head.
“Lyonette’s a [Princess]. Not that she’s ever liked you.”
“Given her taste in suitors, I find that a great compliment.”
Pisces’ smirk and sidelong mutter had them both chortling. They relaxed; she couldn’t be here forever. But she wanted to be here.
That was the honor. Erin smiled as if it hurt, then seemed to figure out how it should go. Then she rolled onto her back and put her arms behind her head. She stared up at a blue sky with white clouds billowing.
“I guess I’m sort of jealous. I never knew what that was like. Except for that time with Altestiel…and I think everyone just sort of went along with it because it was fun. Then again, y’know, I’ve never wanted to—relationships are hard whenever I tried.”
“You’ve never talked about having one. Romantically.”
His ears perked up like Ceria’s, and Pisces leaned back on his arms. Erin stared up at the sky.
“Look, Pisces. First I was just in this world, and it was all so much, then I was busier running the inn. Maybe I was sort of asking what my bigger plans were, generally, but then bam, crossbow bolts to the chest.”
“A significant obstacle in dating. In most cases.”
A softer laugh.
“Yeah, but then I realized it was one of the things I had regrets about. Now? Tiny me.”
“One presumes there are plenty of Fraerlings of good character…but I do take your point. Not exactly the basis for a long-term relationship.”
“Yup.”
They stared upwards, and Pisces just rubbed at his nose.
“Doubtless, other Pisces is engaged in a very delightful date. In which he shall be respectful, charming, dare I say modestly chaste—”
“Well, yeah, you’re not gonna get to third base on the first date. I, uh…you wait for the third date for that. Right? One base per date?”
Erin’s voice betrayed an utter lack of confidence in the statements she was throwing out. Pisces lifted a hand.
“Question. What constitutes a base?”
“…One’s kissing. I think there’s more than three? No, wait, if it’s baseball…okay, yeah, you’re getting to one base, then you hit touchdown, which—”
“Ah. The analogy becomes clear. I wish you had met Merr. Her analogies are a work of art.”
Erin began laughing again.
“Maybe I will contact her! But I promised…but maybe. I’ve been thinking about using this place more. You and me, we can just hang. But I could pull multiple people in here.”
“Truly? Then what about Ulvama? I should like to make sure she’s well.”
Erin blinked up at the sky, then sat up.
“Pisces. Are you a genius?”
He sniffed self-importantly, smiling.
“Some have called me that. Others would posit that it’s just basic logic with a Skill—”
She conjured pillows to toss at him.
“I’ve—been—stressed! And Ulvama and I were fighting, and I was watching Garry climbing in real-time—okay, you’re sort of smart. Too silly to realize that the same Jester was following you around for over a week.”
He flushed at that and coughed. Damned [Pavilion of Secrets]. There were some changes, such as him not being able to lie—knowingly.
“If I am completely honest, as I must be, Erin, I will confess to not putting the pieces together. The third time is where I begin to lack excuses, but I did think it was a trend.”
“Mm, I can see that. Plus, if she’d noticed she’d probably have just attacked early or changed tactics.”
Pisces hesitated a long moment as Erin lay back down, shaking her head at the duplicity of [Jesters] and [Assassins] in general, but he coughed.
“Er, well, I was distracted. By her, um, assets.”
“Her whats?”
“Her…breasts, Erin. I told you about the bells? The golden ones?”
Erin gave him a puzzled look, and he realized he might not have clarified all his descriptions perfectly.
“Yeah, I know she had a bunch of bells from the people she killed. That’s terrible but also sort of cool. Even I can admit that. Like that’s a calling card. The silver ones were on her hat. Where were the g—”
He conjured an image of the [Jester]. Erin stopped speaking. She stared.
Pisces stared. It really was a very…remarkable Skill that Erin had. Like her [Garden of Sanctuary] or [World’s Eye Theatre], some memories could be played back in perfect detail. Memory, fire, her themes.
…This might not have been the intention of its creator, Sheta, the last true Empress of Wings, but Pisces solemnly observed the Jester rotating around the dance floor with far more scholarly intent than he had been when he’d been afraid for his life. He came to his senses and began to apologize to Erin.
“I, ah—ahem. Sorry. I was merely illustrating—”
“Huh? What? No, no, that’s crazy. I mean, you hear stories back home, but, uh—wow.”
She was a bit red-faced too and half-covered her eyes, but then kept staring. She glanced at Pisces.
“That had to be distracting.”
“The thought of dying helped, but she was very good at creating openings.”
“Huh.”
Her head turned back to the image. Pisces glanced at that—then at Erin. Then at—Erin Solstice was blinking.
“You know what, Pisces?”
“Er, yes? I can turn it off.”
She shrugged casually.
“I mean, sure, if you want. Listen, she was trying to kill you, and that was clearly her thing. Everyone’s got breasts. I’m just thinking…y’know, maybe we were too harsh on the guy.”
“…Which guy, exactly?”
She gave him a somber nod.
“Calruz. Listen, he went crazy because of the Raskghar—though I think Mrsha claimed it wasn’t all his fault. She learned something a while back from when the moon cracked.”
“Aha. That event—the rest of the team and I joked it was something to do with the inn. But truly, it’s been one of those things no one talks about until it’s night. Then they stare up and…”
Erin stared ahead.
“It was the inn. Mrsha was at the center of it. Some bad things happened, but some good things, too. Like always. No, better than normal, perhaps. Better than my Winter Solstice.”
“Oh.”
Then he had to know, but he knew it would hurt. Erin breathed in and out.
“It’s not my story to tell, for once. And there are good things that’ll happen to Calruz, she hopes. He deserves that. Back then, he was stubborn. Honor-this Calruz. But he was a brave man.”
“Of course. I don’t…I think Ceria herself has forgiven a lot of what he did. Not all, but I’ve felt only sympathy for much of what happened to him.”
The Horns of Hammerad’s founder was still someone Erin Solstice had defended. She had a drink named after him, but she waved a finger at Pisces.
“Well, obviously. But what I meant was the other thing. Remember when he wouldn’t shut up about Ryoka’s, y’know? Ryokas?”
Pisces vaguely recalled that. He hadn’t talked to Calruz much at all, but Erin clearly remembered that.
“Mammaries. That’s what it was. Ceria and Gerial gave him a hard time about it, but he’s got a point.”
“…Indeed.”
The [Necromancer] sat there with his [Innkeeper], and she kept glancing at the image. Then coughed.
“Uh, okay, that’s probably too much.”
“Of course, naturally. Highly distracting. The important part was I survived. And I got to her.”
“…Yeah.”
Erin turned to Pisces, and they remembered the <Quest>. He had a thought about that, actually.
“I did it. I think I did. I know she was saved, but I don’t know if I missed anyone…I’m afraid to know. But Erin, the <Quest> didn’t complete or fail.”
She glanced at him. Then smiled as he brought up that odd thing.
“No. It didn’t.”
“But I did it.”
He thought he had. But then the [Innkeeper] just lay there.
“Did you? Or are you still not sure?”
The Gold-rank adventurer sat there, and then he looked at her and saw it. Of course. He sat back and exhaled.
“…Are you sure it wasn’t <Mythical>?”
“I’m glad it wasn’t. I hope you succeed.”
He felt that heaviness upon him, but because it was something she had put there…he just exhaled and chose this moment to rest.
“Me too. It was close this time, Erin. Close as it’s ever come, and the irony of being slain by a topless [Jester] is not lost on me. Highly distracting. That is me being honest.”
He did want to clarify that and mention how surreal and difficult it had been. To his gratification, Erin even nodded after a decent pause.
“I’ve thought so, but each to their own. I don’t wanna judge. I’m not gonna be the prude, y’know? Still, that and armpits…whoof.”
Erin winced for reasons Pisces missed. He hesitated, then turned to her.
“…Armpits?”
He didn’t follow her train of logic, and then she began to explain, hurriedly, and interject numerous explanations for why she was wrong but you could see a tiny bit of where she’d made a horrible mistake—
Then Pisces Jealnet sat back. He just smiled and rested on the hill of grass as he felt the world changing. After a moment, he cleared his throat.
“I take it Ulvama is well?”
“What? Oh, sure, we talked it out, and it was a big thing, but…yeah. We’re great. She’s got an awesome new outfit too. Very spidery. I’d love to invite her here, but I should tell her…and I think the more people in here, the more effort it takes. Exponentially more.”
Erin re-focused, and her eyes became distant. Pisces stirred.
“I see. Because this isn’t the [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
“Yep. It’s meant for secrets. One was a shelter. This was meant to be…a weapon. A subtle one, but I think it has great and terrible secrets buried within. I’m afraid to open the doors, Pisces. Let alone the final one.”
Her head turned, and he saw the door to the [Palace of Fates]. For a moment, Pisces was also afraid. Not of what lay beyond, but who Erin would have to be to unlock it.
Then he relaxed, closed his eyes, and sat back with her. However much she changed…he’d look forwards to this moment in whatever way they had it.
The air that blew from the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s memory was crisp and fresh on his skin. It carried memory, and promises of new moments he’d remember forever. Always, always with her there was a surprise.
But sometimes, if you were smart, you’d notice when the next one was coming. It was the twinkle in her eyes, the way she sat forwards, watching you out of the corner of her vision.
It was polite, though, to pretend you hadn’t noticed. Even when you knew…Pisces’ heart still leapt in his chest when he heard the faint click. Then his head turned, incredulous. He swung back to Erin, and he saw it.
That mischievous, wide smile as she brushed at her hair. She breathed in and out, tired.
“That’s all I can do for now. I’ll practice and get everyone in here. Promise. But…”
He said nothing as he rose to his feet. Pisces began to stride across the grass of the hill. Then he turned and nodded to her.
“Thank you, Erin Solstice.”
She was rising too, that smile of delight on her own face. Pisces turned and spread his arms. Then he was walking down the hill as a figure halted—two figures—and then they began to run up the hill. One of them was crying, the other laughing. Pisces tried to speak, coughed, and then whispered.
“It’s good to see you, Ksmvr, Vofea.”
Then started running, to greet his team, as the [Innkeeper] laughed in delight behind him.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
A note a beta-reader just asked me. Do Stitch-folk have Galas-muscle? The answer is yes. The Jester is definitely working with some, and any limbs they attach grow it…slowly. Given how fast their bodies can atrophy or they replace stuff, it means you can make a body out of the stuff, but it’s an expensive resource.
There’s nowhere in the chapter to add that. Fun lore fact I don’t really need to include unless we have a chapter about Stitch-folk. Revi, maybe?
I’m done. You may infer from this Author’s Note that I’m tired. I pushed it to the limits to get this chapter done for my month off. The signs are there. I feel weirdly cold despite being at the same temperature inside I normally do. Sleeping for lots but feeling tired and napping even after 8+ hours of sleep.
For a few days, I’ll be like this. Then I’ll go back to normal. It’s the crash you get when you get a vacation or go on summer break in school. And I imagine…yeah, I imagine being sad doesn’t help.
But I’ve done it. I’d like to thank my beta-readers for all their help on this big chapter. They did take time to get this done. Thank you for understanding me needing a break. And, uh…thank the Beast in Black, some band with two songs I kept listening to for this Pisces section.
Now I rest. I hope this chapter was as thrilling an end as it was in my head when I came up with it. Pisces has always been one of my favorite characters, and this isn’t even his finest moment. Just a particularly nice one.
Let me know what you think—the Horns arc in Chandrar is going to be longer, so I imagine I’ll cut this with other points-of-view, but this is Pisces’ section. I’m proud of every Merr-ism and…yeah.
Even the ending is a last-minute edit, but one that made a bunch of sense when someone suggested it. We’ll get more later, but I am glad we stopped here rather than last chapter. Now I’ll focus a bit on me. See you in a month, and thanks for reading,
—pirateaba

Tales of Innworld #8 (2026-09-19)

(Book 2 of The Wandering Inn, No Killing Goblins, is coming out on Tuesday, September 22nd in bookstores!)
<I’m doing a live Q&A with Erin Bennett and Gavin on the 22nd at 7 PM EST! Come and watch!>
https://www.youtube.com/live/cXukl39CeOk
 
 
Hello, it’s me. I’m posting another Tales of Innworld by Enuryn the [Naturalist] during my break and I have an announcement—Book 2 of The Wandering Inn, No Killing Goblins, is out on Tuesday, September 22nd! That’s crazy! I hope you enjoy the new cover art and take a look! I’m going to be staring at it in the bookstores—I went there yesterday and bought a ton of books for my growing library. I like bookstores. I forgot how nice they smell and I may need to buy a lot more books…the libary must grow.
Aside from that I’ve been resting up well. I have a blog post you can check out with more details. This is about Enuryn’s art!
Marc (he has a crazy stare) and Traffy are a fun duo. I need to get back into the Riverfarm chapters but this is another good look into the life of people there. A [Traffic Conductor] is a class about as useful as Liska’s…and you’re gonna level faster when you’re in a new place like this!
Well, Pallass doesn’t really have the same issue. They have huge walkways and good layouts and their city is almost entirely walkable because it just doesn’t have enough room for huge wagons on the upper floors mostly. But a Drake [Guard] on the 1st Floor could tell you some things about the bazaar snarls and traffic there. They still need bulk elevators and getting things to their destination requires bags and chests of holding—it’s a city that works because it’s so rich. By contrast, Riverfarm is using Earth ideals and thus arises Marc. Perhaps actual traffic lights will take his job but I think his class would stick around as someone who can monitor streets and fix this kind of dispute.
I hope you enjoy and also one last thing—I have a livestream event on Tuesday, September 22nd at 7 PM! It’s a question-and-answer with Gavin and Erin Bennett! She’ll read out my answers like last time so huge thanks to her and Gavin and see you there! Back to resting for me!
—pirateaba
